



PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



Academy of Natural Sciences 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA 



VOLUME LX 



1908 



PHILADELPHIA : 1 ( ^ I 



Tun ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



LOGAN SQUARE 



1908-1909 



3 I 



,^ 




I 



V. Go 



The Academy ok Sati kai. Sciences of I'hii auki imia. 



MaK(H 3, iwg. 



I hereby certify that printed copies of the Procekdinos for 1908 have been 

 luiiiled as follows : — 



" 33-64.. 



" 65-112. 



•• n3-12«t, 



•' 157-;^<U. 



•' :}ftj-412 



" 4ia-444. 



•' 445-492 



•■ 4'J3-.'i08 



•' .509-540 



■• 541-588. 



•• 589-624 



129-144 .. 



ui-i.^e 



KDWARD J. NOLAN. M.I).. 



liecordiiKj Secretary. 



WiT.MEU Stone, 

 Wit. 1,1 AM .1. Fox, 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE 



Henry Skinxek. Ml).. 

 Henrv a. IMlshrv, Sc.l)., 



Edwakk J. Nolan, M.D. 

 The Presidrnt, Samuel (J. Dlxon, M.D., cx-officio 

 !;i)l'K)I{: Kdwaki) J. Nolan, M.D. 






CONTENTS. 



For Aniioituccinents, Reports, etc., see (leneral Index. 



lioVEH, C'liAKLKs S. A new species of Cvniatoplouru (Plate 



XXVIII) 554 



Browx. Arthur Erwi.v, Sc.D. Cleneric tyj^es of Nearctic Rep- 



tilia and Amphibia U- 



Calvert. Philip P., Ph.D. The c()mi)OHitioii and ccolo.irical 



rehitioas of the Odonate Fauna of Mexico ami Central 



America (Plate XXVI), 4G0 



('hammkklix. Ralph \ . Animal names and anat<»mical terms of 



the (loshute Indians "-^ 



Revision of North American Spidei-s of the Family Lycosida' 



(Plates VII I-NXIII) 158 



CoLTON, Harold Skllkrs. How FuIjjih' and Sycotypus eat 



Oy.sters. Mussels and Clams (Plates I-V). .... 3 

 Some effects of environment on the j^rowth of Limnn-a colu- 

 mella Say, 410 



F<)\vi,KR. Hknrv W. Notes on Sharks, 52 



A synopsis of theCyprinicheof Pennsylvania (Plate NN\ II). .517 

 Har.shhkr(;kr, John \V.. Ph.D. The directive influence of I.ijiht 



on thejrrowth of Forest Plants (Plates NNIV. NNV). . 149 

 IsHiKAW A. Cnno.MATsr, Ph.D. Description of a new species of 



S(|ualoid Shark from .Japan "1 



MoNTcoMKHV. Thomas H.. .Ir., Ph.D. Hmmrks on Prof. 



Chamherlin's revision of North American Fycosid;e. .'>1.'J 



M<«tRK, J. Pkrcv. Some Polycha'tous Annelids of the Northern 



Pacific Coii.<t of North America '{-1 



PiusHRV. Hknrv A.. Sc.D. .Notes on Succinea ovalis Say and 



S. ol)li(iuaSay (Plate\ll) 15 



( )n lh«' cla.'^sification of Scalpellifnrin Pnrna<'l«>, 101 




IV, CONTENTS. 



A comparison of the Land-Siiail Fauna of Koroa with tlie 



Faunasof Japan and China 452 



On tlie teeth of Hawaiian species of Helices, 560 



Clausiliidae of the Japanese Empire, XII (Plates XXX. 



XXXI, XXXII), 561 



TiLSBRY. Hknry a.. Sc.D., and Y. Hirase. Xew Land and 



Fresh-water MoUusca of the Japane.'^e Empire, ... 31 



Xew Land Shells of the Chinese Empire — 1 37 



Xew Land Mollusca of the Japanese Empire, 586 



I*iLSBRV. Henry A., and E. G. Vanatta. Xotes on Polinices 

 didyma. with description of a new Australian species 



(Plate XXIX). 555 



Rehx. James A. G. Acrididae (Orthoptera) from Sao Paulo. 

 Brazil, with descriptions of one new genus and tjinv 



new species, 12 



Reh.v. James A. G., and Morgan Hkhahd. An Orthoptcro- 

 logical Reconnoi-ssance of the Southwestern United 



States. Part I : Arizona, 365 



Snyder, John Otterbein. Description of Trachypterus selen- 

 iris, a new species of Ribbon-Fish from Monterey Hay, 



CaHfornia 319 



Stone, Witmer. Methods of recording and utilizing \Vn\\- 



Migration Data, 128 



Recent additions to our knowledge of the Flora of Souliiorn 



Xew Jei-sey 457 



A review of the Genus Piaya Lesson, 492 



True, Frederick \V. Remarks on the fassil Cetacean Uliab- 



dasteuslatiradaxCope(lMate VI) 24 



Wellman, F. Creiohtox, M.D. ( )n the Meloidu' of Angola, . (iOO 



Wellman, F. Creightdn, M.D., and Wai.ther Horn, M.l). On 



the Cicindelina,' of Angola 505 



Young, Robert T. Xotes on the distribution of Colorado 

 Mamnuils, with description of a new species of Hat 

 (Eptcsicus pallidus) from Houlder, 403 




PROCEEDINGS 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



PHILADELPIIIA. 



-1908. 



January 7. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixox, M.D., in the Chair. 



One hundred and six persons present. 



Tlie Hayden Memorial Geological Medal' was presented to Cliarles 

 D. Walcott, LL.D. The presentation address was made by Dr. 

 Persifor Frazer and responded to by the recipient of the award. A 

 reception was tendered Dr. Walcott at the close of the formal pro- 

 ceetlings. 



The following!; Standing Committees were appointed by the Council 

 to serve during the ensuing year: 



Fi.N'AN'CE. — John Cadwalader, Lklwin S. Dixon, Elfingiiam H. 

 Morris, Horatio C. Wood, M.D., and George Vaux, Jr., Treasurer. 



PuBLic.\Tio\s. — Henry Skimior, M.D., Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., 

 Witmer Stone, Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D.. and lOdwanl J. Xolan, .Nf.I)., 

 lOditor and Treasurer. 



LiUHAiiY.— Dr. C. Newlin Peirce, Henry Tucker, .M.D., Thomas 

 Hiddlc, .M.D., Benjamin Sharp, .M.D., and George Vaux, Jr. 



' For an illuMtnitioii »»f tin* roiiuKi(>ll<-<l Ilaydi-ii Mcdjil see K«'iK)rt of Hocurilitig 

 .■>Tr«'tury, PudCKKDiNUJ*, 1U07, p. 501. 

 I 




2 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Instruction. — Benjamin Smith Lyman, Henry A. Pilsbn-, Sc.D., 

 Charles Morris, Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., and Dr. C. Xewlin Peirce. 



Committee of Council on By-Laws. — Arthur E. Brown, Sc.D., 

 Thos. H. Feuton, M.D., John Cadwalader and Chas. B. Penrose, M.D. 



The President is, ex officio, a member of all Standing Committees. 



January 2L 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 



Ninety-seven persons present. 



The deaths of Jacob Reese, March 25, 19()7, and of .Mis.-^ AdeUne 

 Tryon, Januarj' 20, 190S, members, were reporte<l. 



Dr. Casey A. Wood made an illustrated comnmnication on the eyes 

 and eyesight of birds. (No abstract.) 



Dr. William J. Sinclair was elected a member. 



The following was ordere<l to lie printed : 




1908.1 NATLRAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 3 



HOW FULOUE AND 8YC0TYPU8 EAT OYSTERS, MUSSELS AND CLAMS. 

 HY HAROLD SELLERS COLTOX. 



Since observations on the habits of Prosobranch mollusks are 

 frajrnientary and few, I enibracetl an opjiortunity of stiulyinp; Fulgur 

 carica, Fulgur perversa and Stjcotypus canaliculatus under conditions 

 as nearly natural as one can hope to have in a laboratory located 

 far from the sea. Mo.st of the observations were carrie<l out in the 

 Vivarium of the University of Pennsylvania; these were supplemented 

 by studies on fresh material under more natural conditions at the 

 Pisheries Lalioratory at Woods Hole.' 



The individuals studied in Philailelphia had been in captivity a long 

 time. All had been there a year and many several j'ears. The Fulgur 

 carica had come from Woods Hole and the Jersey coast. F. perversa 

 I had brought up from Clearwater, Plorida, two years and a half 

 before. Of these latter none had dietl a natural death during that 

 time. 



The salt water a(|uarium in which they were confine<l was al)out five 

 feet wide and eleven feet long. There was three feet of water over the 

 greater part, but a shallow beach at one end. 



( )n the beach 1 was accustome<l to place oysters that I kept as a 

 stock to fee<l the animals in this tank. Every week I choppeil up an 

 oyster or twf» and distributed the juice and fragments all over the tank. 

 This stinuilatcnl the Pulgurs and Sycotypi to activity and to make 

 frequent raids on the living oysters on the beach. This UnI me to 

 in(|uire into the kind of food, the amount of food, and mctjiod of 

 f((*<liug of these gasteropcMls. 



There is but one actual observation on the inamicr of feeding of the.'^e 

 mollusks that 1 have been able to discover. Stimp.sou (l.SOO), in 

 speaking of Sycoti/pus, said: "In eating (it) ap|)lies end of proboscis 

 to the clam's foot, and with a sud<len jerk of the lingual ribbon inward 

 and sidelong takes a strip of Hesh." 



The "imi)reHsion" that njost persons hold with refcrenrc to the 

 maimer of eating and the habits of xUvSi/cntifpus and Fuhjur'is e.\pres.se<l 

 by Hcnick ( HMM}) : "Since this animal is a great pe.st to the oystcrmen 

 and clum-<liggers, .... it is of some interest .... to know 



' I mn (lc«-ply iiiflr-htod tn thr Fnitod Stntps f'nnmiiwsinnor of Fi=' — nn- 



um- iif H fdlili" lit tin- \\<mk|m II<i1i' Ljilmriitciry, t<> I>r. K. H. Suiiiiur. '«»r, 



for iiiatiy favors, ami partinilarly Dr. K. (i. ConUIIri for n-adiiiK (' "■' 

 of this paper ami for many lu-lpful HiiKKi-HtioiiH. 




4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



how this gasteropod accomplishes its destructive work of boring 

 tlirouch the shells of oysters and clams and rasping out their soft 

 contents by means of the file-like tongue." Although this is in the 

 introtluction, he does not mention again how Sycoti/pus bores through 

 shells and had only the "impression" that they did bore. 



Ingersoll (1884) has given the most detailed description of the food 

 and the manner of taking it that I have been able to discover. "The 

 food of the conch (Fiilgur or Sycotypus)," says he, "being mainly the 

 flesh of other mollusks, its method of killing them is one of brute 

 strength, since it is unprovided with the siUcious, file-like tongue by 

 means of which the small drills set at naught the shelly armor of their 

 victims. The conch is a greater savage than that. Seizing upon the 

 unfortunate oyster, unable to run away, he envelops its shell in the 

 concave under surface of his foot, and l)v just such muscular action 

 as you would employ in grasping an object in the palm of your fist, 

 crushes the shell into fragments and feasts at leisure on the flesh thus 

 exposed. One j^lanter thought one Winkle {P'ulgur and Sycotypus) 

 was capable of killing a bushel of 03-sters in a single hour. They do 

 not confine themselves to oysters altogether, of course; anj- moUusk 

 or other animal sluggish or weak enough to be broken up suffers from 

 their predacity. I was told in New Jersey by an intelligent man that a 

 conch would even pull a razor clam out of its burrow and devour it. If 

 this be true the soft shell clam also falls a victim to the same marauder. 

 The Quahog is generally safe." 



I quote this because my observations and experiments unfortu- 

 nately contradict so many of these interesting statements. 



My experiments as to the kind of food were restricted to live Lamelli- 

 branchs, because I never was able to observe them eat chopped oyster 

 or cjiopped meat. Choppe<l oyster certainly .^tinuilates them and 

 perhaps they will eat it. I cannot tell. Tul^le I gives the results of 

 my studies at Woods Hole and Thiladelphia. (x) indicates tiiat the 

 particular Ijivalve was fed to the conch and eaten; (o) indicates that 

 it was fed to the conch and not eaten ; and (-) means that thr particular 

 form was not su{)plied with the indicated UnA. 



Mya. 



Venua 



Entit... 



Modiola. 



MyliluM 



Ontrea. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 5 



At Woods Hole Sycotypus and F. carica were found only at places 

 where Ensis (razor clams) were abundant. I could not find them 

 on any other beach. Although I did not observe Sycotypus eating 

 Ensis, I thinic there is every reason to suppose that they do. 



The experiments on the amount of footl are too few to be definite. 

 The results, such as they are. are expres.setl in Tal)le II. (x) indicates 

 present but not eaten, (o) imlicates not present. 



Table II. 



No. Conch. Days. Ostrea. Ml/n. \'cnus. Mijlllux. Modiola. 



1 Sycolypus 10 x 13 x 7 x 



4 F. carica 10 x x 2 3 1 



3 F. perversa 42 7 



4 F. carica 12 



2 Sycot>jpus 42 4 



1 Sycotypus 2 4 



Very often one indivithial would eat a couple of clams or oysters in a 

 day, but as a rule the meals were far apart. 



Notwithstanding most pei"sons' " impressions," it is highly improbable 

 that these mollusks ever bore through Lamellibranch shells. I have 

 never seen a hole that would fit their proboscis, nor does the wearing 

 f)f the teeth on the odontopiiore iiulicatc that they were worn down 

 against a hard substance. Plat€ I, fig>. 3-4 show the median tooth 

 of i'rosdlphinx which bores rapidly through the shells of mus.sels. The 

 former shows a tooth before l)eing worn ami the latter a tooth worn 

 down. These teeth comparetl with a similar series, Plate I, figs. 1 and 

 ■J. showing /•'. carica, suggest that there are two methods of wear. In 

 Crosalphinx the teeth are worn evenly off so that a straight line will 

 join the tops. The large teeth are worn level with the short ones. In 

 Fiihfur, however, the teeth are broken off in almost any way. Exami- 

 nations t)f the railula* of Nassa ohsolcta, Nassa trin'ttala, Luuatia and 

 I'urpura lapillus seem to substantiate the view. liut with the excep- 

 tion of Purpura and perhaps Nassa obsnUia, too little is known how 

 tiicy take their fo<Ml to render any general conclusions tenable. In the 

 ca.'^e of these last two. Purpura, which has a radula worn like Urosal- 

 jtltini, has l)een observe<l to bore (Wilcox, 1905); and A'a.9sa,witii wear 

 such as I have described for Fuhjur, has never been seen to bore, but 

 will crawl between the valves of Mya, wedging the valves aj>art, and 

 devour the flesh (Dimon, HM)o). 



The other metlKKl of attack (IngersoU, 1.S84) is by breaking the 

 shell. As described by IngersoU this is utterly impcxssible. However, 




f) PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



l)oth F. penrrsa and F. caricn do injure the shell of Venus mercenoria 

 (Quahoo:); and, althoufih tliey leave marks on the shell of Mytilus 

 (mussel) and |>eriiap.s Ostrca, the shell of Mija (soft shell clam) is left 

 • without a scratch. 



In the case of Sycotj/pus eatinc; oysters, I have been able to watch 

 the whole process from the be.2;inning to the end without interruption, 

 ^o I will take this a'^ my first example. It will bo an accoimt of the 

 behavior of a single individual. 



The Si/cotypu^ had not been fed for a month or so and wa^ buried in 

 the gravel. To stimulate, I added some very finely chopped-up oyster 

 to the acjuarium. When it started to crawl out of the gravel, a few 

 minute-J after I added the oyster juice, I placed some live ovsters in the 

 aquarium with it. It attacked one of the oysters five minutes after I 

 l)laced them with it. Fiftv minutes afterward it left the empty shell. 

 Going a foot to another oyster, it began to attack it twenty minutes 

 after it left the first one. 



The Sj/cotj/pus crawled on top of the oyster, which closed its valves. 

 The conch waited two minutes when the oyster openetl its valves 

 (Plate II. fig. 7). Rotating its shell on the axis of the columella 

 tlirough an angle of 70°, it thrust its own shell between the valves of 

 the oyster and introduced its proboscis between the shells (Plate II, 

 fig. 8). Forty minutes later it left the empty shell. 



Sycotypus does not wedge the shells of Mya apart. Ijecause it can get 

 at the soft parts without doing so, since the valves gap slightly (Plates 

 II and III, figs. 11, 12). To test this I introducetl an oyster that 

 had had three-quartei-s of an inch broken from the margins of both 

 valves (»n the end away from the hinge so that the valves appeared to 

 gap. I found that Syrolypus attacketl this one in the same manner 

 as it attacked Myn and did not wetlge the^^hells apart (Plate I, fig. 6). 



Fult/ur eating Venus is a much more comjilicatinl case. The concli 

 {Fulgur perversa or F. enn'ca) grasps the Venus in the hollow of its 

 foot (Plate IV, fig. \:i), bringing the margin of tiie Venus shell against 

 it.s own shell margin. By contracting the columellar muscle it forces 

 the margins of the shells together, which results in a small fragment 

 being chippe<l from the shell of Venus. This is repeated many times 

 and. finally, the crack between the valves is enlarged to a width of 

 •i mm. or more (tpxt fig.). 



The proboscis 'i» noniially about .5 nun. to N mm. in dianu'tei 

 There are tlire<' ways in which it may get at the animal. First, it may 

 flatten f»ut it« proboscis so tliat it will go through the crack; secondly, 

 it may pour in a secretifin between tlu* val\(-< which kills the clam 




1908. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



and. tliinlly, it may wedge its shell between the valves of the Vetius. 

 By contracting its columellar muscle it may actually wedge the valves 

 apart. Venus is much more sensitive to mechanical stimuli than is 

 Ostrea. Venus never opens its valves of itself when it is in the grasp 

 of a Fulgur, while Ostrea, after the first shock, opens wide its valves as 

 if no danger were near. 



Fulgur and Sycotypus often break their own shell when opening 

 oysters and clams, and this accounts no doubt for the irregular growth 

 lines seen on their shells. 



This method of inserting the margin of a gasteropod between the 

 valves of a Lamellibranch has been noticed before. Francois (1890) 



QualioR shell clipped l)y Fulyur. 



briefly reports that Murex furtispinna has a special tooth on the margin 

 of its aperture for the pur|)ose of inserting lu'twcpn the valves of Area. 

 It may be that this manner of attacking the soft jnirts of i)ivalves is a 

 very common habit of ProsoJjranch moUusks. 



All writers recognize Fulgur and Sycolypus as pests to the oyster men. 

 How many oysters will be destroye*! will depend on the average num- 

 ber eaten in a given time. Although I have found them to eat two 

 oysters one day and two the next, there follows a long rest perio«l 

 where the individual renuiins buri(Ml in tiie sand — sometimes for days, 

 sometimes for months. 



Notwithstanding that Ingersoll (1.SS4) says. "It is needless to miv 

 that they dv not burrow at all," I find that they are burie<l about (m 




8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan.. 



per cent, of the time, the tip end of the black siphon alone projecting 

 above the sand — 5 mm. — a most inconspicuous object. 



The following table gives the records of the activity of nine individuals 

 for a period of six weeks. It indicates the periotls of rest and activity 

 expressetl in days. Plate V shows these periods of rest and activity 

 distributed in space. 



Table III. 



Gasteropod. Days active. Days buried. Days quiet. Days of food. 



.Si/co/j/pus No. 2 21 16 3 2 



No. 10 2 38 1 



F. carica No. 3 9 25 6 



No. 4 5 34 1 



Xo. 5 11 14 



No. 6 10 4 26 



F. perversa No. 1 7 29 4 1 



No. 7 10 30 2 



No. 8 7 33 1 



These experiments were carried on in Philadelphia and so were not 

 imder perfectly natural conditions. They show how far apart the meal 

 times are. During these experiments F. carica never ate. If these 

 observatioas reflect at all the normal habits of the individual, they can- 

 not, I think, be a very serious oyster pest. 



Sycotypns and Fxdgur do not always react to their UhA in the same 

 manner, but they react to different Lamellibranchs in a way best 

 suited to getting at the soft parts of the animals. Therefore the 

 behavior is adaptive (Jennings, 190G, 1907). 



Another question is, are these organisms intelligent? Jennings 

 (1906) defines intelligence as a modification of behavior in accordance 

 with experience. The usual way to test this is by habit formation 

 (Jennings, 1907). "(1) The organism must be presented with a 

 problem to be solvc<l. (2) The organism must 'try' to solve the 

 problem in .several different ways. (3) It must be able to solve tlie 

 problem in but one or a few ways," 



In accordance with thfsc criteria I presented the niolhisks with a 

 simple nia/e problem with (»ysters a.s "bait." Although witiiout food 

 for a week, they burie<l themselves in the sand and did not move 

 again. At tlie end of two weeks I discontiinuvj Ihc experiment. To 

 show the normal behavior of the.sc animals 1 plotted their movements 

 for a period of six weeks. This gave no results except those embodied 

 in the earlier part of this pajjcr. The diagrams show, however, how 

 ver>' f-luggi.sh lln-se mollusks are. It is probably impossible by any of 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 9" 



the ordinary methotls to determine the intelligence of Sycotypus and 

 Fidgur. The solution of this problem awaits some ingenious future 

 investigator. 



. Summary. 



1. Fulgur and Sycotypus are very hardy and live well in captivity. 



2. Fulgur probably attacks any Lamcllibranch. 



3. Sycotypus will attack any except Venus. 



4. Oysters are eaten in less than an hour. Clams in from an hour 

 to an hour and a half. Quahogs from seven hours to three days. 



5. They do not bore shells with the radula. 



6. They open shells of oysters by wedging their own shell between 

 the valves, and tear out the flesh with their radula. They probably 

 treat Quahogs in the same way. 



7. Some shells are injuretl in the process, depending on the amount 

 of gap and the sensitiveness of the organism to mechanical stimuli. 



S. Their meals are far between. 



9. They spend their time between meals buried in the sand. 



10. They may not be as serious a pest to the oystermen as previously 

 n'porte<l. 



11. Their behavior is adaptive. As yet we have no proof that these 

 aniihals are intelligent. 



Literature. 



1.S95. Cooke. Cambridge Sat Hint., \ol. 1 1 1 , p. CiO. 



190.5. DiMON, \. C. Cold Spring Harbor Moimgraiilis, \' , pp. 31-:W. 



1S91). Fkancois. Arch. Exp. (/'., (2), IX, p. L'K). 



1870. (hulu. Inrerlibrata oj Mass., 2d. I'cl.. l>y W. G. Hinney. 



190(i. IIkiuuck, J. ('. .M((li;misMi of tlie Odontophoral apparatus in Sycotypus 



canaliculatu.s, .\ui. .\at., \'ol. XL, p. 707. 

 1SS4. Ix<iKH.s()i,L, E. Fiiificricx Imlustries of the V. S., Si-ction I, p. 091. 

 1900. Jk.nnino.s, 11. S. licharior of the lAiwcr Organisms, p. 334. 

 1907. Jennings, H. 8. Behavior of the Starfi-sh Asterias forreri, C of Cat. Pub. 



in Zool., Vol. IV. No. 2. p. 155. 

 1860. Stimpson. Cheek List, y*. a. 



1882. Tkvon, (J. W. Structural and Sifstematic Conehologg, p. \^7. 

 1905. Wilcox, M. .\. Hiolopv of .\cin»'a testudinalis. Am. .\al., May, 1905, 



p. 325. 



De.scriptio.v of Plates 1-V. 



lifts. 1 and 2 were drawn witli tiie aid of a camera lucida and inapnificd about 72 

 diameters. 



FigH. 3 and 1 were drawn with a camera lucida nncl mafoiined nhout 270 time*. 



The su<-c«-<-<iinp fipirex were drawii free-hand from livinp animals with the 

 excepti<in of figs. 7 and S, which are .xcmi-diaKrammatic. Tiny are J natural »i«e. 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



I'l.vte I. — rig. 1. — Median tooth of Fulgur carica (unusid). 

 Kip. 2. — Median tooth ot" Fulgur carica (worn). 

 Kig. .'i. — -Median tooth of i'riisulphinx (unworn). 

 Fig. 4. — Median tooth of Lrosalphhix (worn). 

 Fig. o. Si/coti/pus eating an oyster viewed from alxive. 



Fig. 6. — Si/coti//)U!^ eating an oyster viewed from side. TIic oyster had hud 

 the end toward tiie concli broken for about } inch. 



Plate II. — F'ig. 7. — Sycolypus on top of oyster (senii-tliagrammatic). 



Fig. 8. — Tlie same a fewseoonds afterward, sliowing tlie margin of the Sycoly- 

 pus shell wedging apart tlie shells of tlie oyster. 

 Fig. 9. — ASi/colypus wedging apart the valves oi' an oyster. 



Plate III. — Fig. 10. — Sycolypus in search of food. 

 Fig. II. — Sycotypu3 eating Mya. 



Pl.\te IV. — Fig. 12. — Stfcotypus eating Mya. 



Fig. 13. — F. carica eating T>h(/.s, showing how it holds the shell. 



Plate ^^ — Diagrams illustrating the wantlerings of F. perrersa, F. carica and S. 

 canaliculatus during a period of six weeks. Each square of the diagram 

 represents one square foot. Each of the diagrams represent an aquarium 

 of salt water five feet l)y eleven feet. Tiie plottings were ma<lc daily. 

 The lioman nvunerals indicate the identification number of the in- 

 diviilual welks. Arabic numeraLs indicate days at one spot, (o) 

 means an oyster eaten. (B) indicates that the indiviilual was buried. 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. il 



, FEIiRUAHY 4. 



I)K. \\'ii.i.i.\M I'. \\iLs()N in tho Cliuir. 



Tliirty persons present. 



The . Publication Committee reported tiie reception of a paper 

 entitled "Acridiihe (Urthoptera) from Sao Paulo. Brazil, with 

 ilescriptions of one New Genus ami three New Species," by James A. G. 

 Hehn (January 27). 



WiTMKK .*-5t()NK made a conmmnication on tiie g:ef»,i!;rai>hical distri- 

 bution of plants and animals in Southern New Jersey. (Xo abstract.) 



Fi:ni{rAHV IS. 

 Artihk lOinviN Hruwn. Sc.D., \'ice-I'resident, in tlie Chair. 



Ninety persons j)re.sent. 



The reception of a paper entitled "Remarks on the Fossil Cetacean 

 Khabdosteus latiradix Cope," by Frederick W. True (February 1,S). 

 wt\.>* reported In* the Pul)lication Committee. 



Philip P. Calvert. Ph.D., ma<le a comnnmication on the general 

 results of nine years' study of the ilra<!;on-flies of .Mexico and Central 

 America for the Biolof/i'n Central i Amcn'nnid. (.\o aljstract.) 



HuHTON Chance, M.l).. was electc^l a member. 



The following were ordere<l to be publishe<l : 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb. 



ACEIDIDi; fORTHOPTERA FROM SAO PAULO. BRAZIL. WITH DESCRIPTIONS 

 OF ONE NEW GENUS AND THREE NEW SPECIES. 



i:V .TAMES A. G. 1{K1IN. 



The material treated in the foUowinfi paper repre.sent.s tlie Pyrgomor- 

 phinne and Locustina? of a collection of Orthoptera made at several 

 localities in the State of Sao Paulo, Brazil, by Mr. Adolph Hempel. and 

 presented to the Academy by the author. 



The Acridinae belonging to this collection has already been treated, 

 in conjunction with other South American material of that subfamily, 

 in a paper in these Proceedings.* 



PYRGOMORPHIN.E. 

 OMMEXECHA Serville. 

 Ommezecha servillei Blanchard. 



is.'??. Ommfxerhn Servillei Blanrliard, Ann. Snc. Entinn. IVanrc. ^^ p. 

 «)13, PI. XXII, figs. 2 and .3. [Province of Corricntr^s, Argentina.] 



Sao Paulo. September 13 and 19, 1000. (Hempel.) Three c". 

 three 2 . 



Reboucas. September 2G, 1900, (Hempel.) One c^, one?. 



Previous records for this species are Porto Allegre, Rio Grande do 

 Sul (Karsch), Sierra Geral, Santa Catharina (Karsch), Siio Paulo 

 (Brunor), Matto Gros.so (Karsch), Brazil. Asuncion and San Hcnianliiio. 

 Paraguay (Bnmer). 



LOCUSTIX.K. 



TR0PIN0TU8 Serville. 

 Tropinotni affinii Druner. 



KMHi. TroinnotuH a/Jiniti linincT, Proc. T'. S. Nat. Mils., .\.\.\, p. »ll(i. 

 [.Supucuy, Paraguay.] 



Jundiahy. April 17, 1.S98; September 10, IMM). (Schn.ttky.) 

 Two d" , two 9 . 



The b<»we<l lateral carinic of the pronotiun appear to be the chief 

 fliagnostic character of thi.s species, \mless thi.s i.s also .shared by T. 

 Hcabripfs Stal, which has not been examined. 



' Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1906, pp. 10-60. 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



13 



EL^EOCHLOBA StAI. 

 Elaeochlora arcuata n. sp. 



Types: o' and ? ; Jundiahy, State of Sao Paulo, Brazil. March 1, 

 1899 (d ). (Schrottky.) [A. X. S. Phila.] 



This peculiar species belongs to the section of the genus containing 

 E. trilineata and viridicata (Serville) and humilis and pulchclla Rchn. 

 as well as the rather aberrant pidicollis (Gerstaccker). It is readily 

 separated from any of these species by the well elevated and longi- 

 tudinally arcuate median carina of tlie pronotum, the tubercles of tiie 

 pronotiim also being blunter and fewer than in the allied species. 

 The male can also be immediately separated from the above species, 

 except -picticollis, by the short acute tegmina. 



Size rather large; form of the female quite robust, of the male slen- 



Fig. 1. — Eliiorltlin-d iirriiiild n. sp. LattTul view of male type. (X 2J.) 



derer. Head witli tlic occiput rounded; fastigimn subhorizontal, very 

 slightly excavato<l, longer tiian inroad, the apex sligiitly acute-angulatc 

 the apical margins sligiitly arcuat« in the male; angle of the fastigiuin 

 wjion viewetl from the lateral aspect narrowly roundetl into the moder- 

 ately (?) or coiLsiderabiy (j) retreating face; frontal costa very 

 iiuich narrowed at its junction with the fastigium. slightly but regu- 

 larly expanding ventrad to the clypous, .sulcatc except in the very 

 narrow dorsal portion; eyes of the male elliptical, oval, of the female 

 ovate; antennaj not complete. Pronotum rugoso-punctate. with the 

 prozona toctate. the metazf)na with the disk flattene<l and tiie carina 

 consitlerai)ly elevated, the outline of the carina when viewed from 

 the lateral aspect being very slightly arcuate in the female, very con- 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Icb., 



siderably so in the male; cojihalic margin ()l)tuse-anp;ulate, sliiihtl>' 

 more marketl in the male than in the female; caudal angle acute- 

 angulate, the apex sharp and the margins slightly areuato-emarginate: 

 lateral shoulders markoil on the metazona. a continuation descending 

 obliquely ventro-cephalad on the prozonal portion of the lateral lobes 

 prozona of the disk with accessory lateral shoulders, which are less 

 marked than the primary ones, converging from the principal trans- 

 verse sulcus to the cej)lialic margin, all the lateral shoulders more 

 marked in the male than in the female ; transverse sulci three in number, 

 all cutting the median ridge, but only the caudal one doing so deeply: 

 greatest metlian width of the pronotal disk contained about twice 

 in the length; lateral lobes of the pronotum with the ventral margin 

 obtuse-angulate. Tegmina of the male exceeding the length of the 

 pronc^tum by about half the length of the head, of the female about 

 equal to the length of the metazona and half of the prozona : shai)e of 

 the male tegmina sublanceolate. of the female tegmina sul>riioml)oid. 

 the greatest width oi the male tegmina contained two and a half 

 times in their length, that of the female tegmina contained once and 

 two-thirds in their length. Wings much snialler than the tegmina. 

 not functional in either sex. Prosternal spine erect, conical; inter- 

 space between the mesosternal lobes very slightly transverse, the 

 angles of the lobes broadly rounded; interspace lietween the mcta- 

 sternal lobes distinctly arcuate transverse. Al)d()men comprc.>^sed 

 in both sexes, distinctly carinate dorsad in the male; supra-anal 

 l)late of the male acute-angulate. distinctly sulcate mesad. tlie sulcus 

 narrowe<l meso-caudad ; cerci of the male very small, simj^lc. styliform ; 

 subgenital plate compressed, produced, rostrate, the apex elevated and 

 .slender. Cephalic and median limbs moderately robust in the male. 

 rather weak in the female. Caudal femora aixnit one and one-tiiird 

 (9) or one and two-thirds (cJ^) the length of the pronotum. rather 

 slender, tapering, no appreciable jm'genicular constriction, dorso- 

 median carina sparsely scrrato-dentate, jiattern of tlie pagina rather 

 irregular and not deeply impressed; caudal tibia- about ecpial to the 

 femora in length, armed on the external margin with ten to twelve 

 spines, on the internal with nine to ten sijincs, those of tiie internal 

 margin longer than those on the external; tai-si distinctly depres.setl. 



Cleneral color <»live-green bccommg brownish on som<' areas and 

 brighter green on otliers. (;\ Face dull «iil green, gcna- and <»cciput 

 of the general color a-side from a dull broad subequal medio-longitudinal 

 bar of ruM.sct on the vertex and occiput, bordered laterad by poorly 

 «lefine<l bhukish areas; eyes burnt umber, i'ronotum very dull olive- 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15 



jireen dorsad, the median carina and anp;les marked obs^curely with 

 burnt sienna; lateral lobes with considerable parrot green inesad, the 

 cephalic antl ventral margias narrowly and the caudal margins rather 

 broadly margined with ochraceous-bufF, the marginal color blending 

 into the general Cf)lor. Tegmina blackish, broadly margined, except 

 toward the apex where the paler color narrows until completely absent 

 at the very apex, with ochraceous-buff, principal veins of the median 

 portion of the tegmina apple green. Limbs tlistinctly brownish, the 

 caudal tibiae and tarsi vinaceous-cinnamon, tibial spines wholly black 

 on the internal margin, tipped with black on the external margin. 9 , 

 Head bice-green with a very pale ochraceous-buff occipital and fastigial 

 band as in the male, which band, however, has the lateral defining 

 bars poorly indicated; eyes vandyke brown; antenme pansy purple 

 with the jiroximal joint of the color of the head. Pronotum generally 

 more oil green than olive-green; median carina marked with a bar of 

 madder l)rown which narrows caudatl and is poorly outlined cci)halad ; 

 ventral and caudal margins of the lateral lobes with very faint and 

 |)oorly define<l light margins. Tegmina oil green with a pale margin 

 similar to the male, in addition to which the green area is outline<l by 

 a heavy pencilling of black, quite distinct on all but the ventro-caudal 

 portion, while the sutural margin has a very fine black etlging to its 

 proximal half; principal veins of the green area apple green. Limbs 

 oil green tending toward apple green, caudal tarsi marked with maroon 

 purple dorsad, caudal tibia- with the spines tis in the male. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 29.2 mm. 52 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 11.1 " ISA) " 



.Median width of disk of pronotum. ... 5.5 " S.2 " 



Length of tegmen 12. S " Li.S " 



Clreatest width of tegmen, 5.1 " S " 



Length of caudal femur, 17.'.> " 21.2 " 



.•\ paratypic female lias also been e.xaminiMl. It difTers from the 

 female type only in the tegmina being more produce<l and nearer t«> 

 the type seen in the iMal(\ 



CHROMACRIS Walker. 



Chromaorii miles (Drury). 



.lundiahy. (Schrottky). One f . 



This individual has the lighter color of the wings rich yellow. 




16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [l'et)-> 



Chromacris naptialis (Gerstaecker). 



1S73. Enmalca nuplialis Gerstaecker, Stett. Entom. Zeit., XXXIN', p. 

 ISo. [Salto Grande." Brazil.] 



Jundiahy. January 20, 1899 (? ). (Schrottky.) One c, one?. 

 The markings of the tegminal veins in this species remind one of the 

 similar pattern noticed in the otherwise very different C. icferus. 



ZONIOPODA Stil. 

 Zoniopoda tarsata (Serville). 



Jundiahy. January 28, 1899. (Schrottky.) One d". 



This specimen agrees fully with the original description and two 

 Rio Grande do Sul specimens determined as tarsata, received from 

 the late Dr. Saussure. 



LEPTYSMA St&l. 



Leptysma gracilis Bmner.* 



lOOti. [Lepli/sma] gracilis Bruner, Proc. U. 8. Xat. Mas., XXX, p. 65S. 

 [Sao Paulo, Brazil.] 



Sao Paulo. September 5-19. 1900. (Hempcl.) Six d, four 9. 

 This series shows an appreciable amount of variation in the form 

 of the fastigium, some having the angle more acute than others. 



Leptysma filiformis (Serville). 



Sao Paulo. September 1 and 7, 1900. (Hempel.) Three 9 . 



PAEACORNOPS Giglio-Tos. 



Paracornops longipenne fDe Gear)? 



1771^. Arri/iliinti longlpenne DeGeer, Mem. d'Hist. Ins., HI, p. 501, PI. 42, 

 fig. 9. [Suiiiiain.] 



Sao Paulo, September 14, 1900. (Hempel.) Five d, one?. 



We have followed Bruner* in considering this form the same as 

 DcGccr's species, the coiTcctncss of whirli association can be deter- 

 mined definitely only by the examination of Suriuam material. 



The specimcas in hand are brownish instead of greenisii as described 

 by DcGcor. but as far as can bo dotorminc<l from his figure thoy do not 

 (lifTor structurally. .'I'ul in ilinir'iisjons they fiillx- ;i<jtc(> willi lliosc trivcn 

 by him. 



» On*' <•! t \\<> locfllitiea, Salto Grande, Minas Gcraes or Salto Grande, S.1o Paulo, 

 prohaMy tlie latter. 



• Tlie live fr-iiialcfl from Sapneay, I*;»raKuay, reeonli'd l)V the ntithor a.s L. 

 fiHlonnix (I'ror. Ariiil. .\'iit. Sri. I'hlln., 1!M(7, p. ISO) are foiincl on re-<'x;iniination 

 to Im' thif* n|M'eie». The alweiiee of mule imlividii.'d.x aeeoiints for the error in 

 iletemiinatjon, 



♦ Proc. i'. S. Sal. Mun., XXX. i>. i\lY2. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 



OMALOTETTIX Bruner. 

 Omalotcttiz signatipes Bruner. 



Sao Paulo. September 1 to 14, 1900, (Hempel.) Nine 9 . 



These specimens are uniformly, though slightly, smaller than 

 Chapada, Brazil, and Sapucay, Paraguay, females, but in no other 

 respect do they appear to differ from topotypes. 



HOMALOSAFABUS' n. gen. 



A member of the Xiphiolce and related to Sap(irus Giglio-Tos and 

 Xiphiola Bolivar, differing from the former in the less compressed 

 general form, in the form of tiie frontal costa, the less produced head, 

 the less compressed pronotum, the more rounded tegmina, the more 

 robust limbs and the produced subgenital plate; differing from Xiphiola 

 n the more compressed form, in the absence of di.stinct lateral angles 

 to the pronotum, the absence of any costal projection between the 

 antenna^ in the broader tegmina, in the narrower interspace lietween the 

 mesosternal lobes and in the produced subgenital plate and slender cerci. 



Vertex ascending; fastigium rectangulate; frontal costa not project- 

 ing between the antenna;, becoming obsolete ventrad of the ocellus; 

 face declivent; eyes acute ovoid, hardly j)rojecting; antenna' heavy, 

 depressed, very slightly expand e<l proximad. Pronotum rugoso-punc- 

 tate; dorsal transverse sulci three in number; mo<lian carina distinct; 

 caudal angle of the disk subrectangulate; lateral angles without 

 carinae. Tegmina exceeding the apex of the abdomen, rather broad, 

 greatest width in the distal third ; intercalary vein absent. Prosternnl 

 spine erect, slender, ai)ex blunt; interspace between the mesosternal 

 lobes very distinctly longer than broad ; interspace between the meta- 

 sternal lobes very narrow. Subgenital plate of the male pnxluced. 

 acuminate, keeled. Caudal femora moderately inflated; cau(hil tibia* 

 with nine spines on the lateral margins. 



Type. — //. canonicus n. sp. 



Homaloiaparas oanonioai n. up. 



Tvjx': r ; Sao Paulo, Brazil. September i;{. lilOO. (llem[)ei.) 

 [A. N. S. Phila.] 



Size medium ; form distinctly compresse<l ; surface ruguloso-punctate. 

 Hem! with the occiput regularly ascending to the interocular region 

 which, with the fjtstigiiun, is subliori/.ontal ; interocular region slightly 

 more than twice the width of the interantennal portion of the frontal 

 coista; fa'^tigium broadly trigonal, the apex with a short, distinct. 

 me<lian. loiigitudiiuil sulcus; angle of the fastigium and vertex, when 

 seen from the lateral aspect, roundeil rectangulair the f.i< i:il line K.iiu' 



• 'dftakot, retembling, and Saparut, a grnrric name. 

 9 




18 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



subperpendicular to a short distance ventrad of the insertion of the 

 antennce, then considerably decUvent; lateral foveolae indistinct, 

 punctate; frontal costa slightly constricted dorsad and obsolete from 

 a point ventrad of the ocellus where it is slightly narrowed, entire 

 length inipresso-punctate; eyes acute dorsad, strongly elongate-ovoid 



Fig. 2. — Homalomparus canonicus n. gen. Sindsp. Lateral view of type. (X 2J.) 



and somewhat longer than the infraocular portion of the genre, when 

 viewed from the dorsum the eyes are seen to be very sliglitly prominent; 

 antenniT about as long as the head and pronotum together, heavy, 

 distinctly depressed, very slightly expanded proximad and with a 

 very slight expanded distal clavation. Pronotum 

 about half again as long as tiie dorsal surface of the 

 head; cephalic margin subtruncate with an extremely 

 slight median emargination, caudal margin sub- 

 rcctangulate, apex finely angulatc; median carina 

 low, distinct, severed three time.s; lateral shoulders 

 distinct on the metazona, rounded and descending 

 ventro-cephalad on the j^rozona; lateral lobes about 

 as deep on their greatest dorsal length, ventral 

 margin rotundato-emarginat« cephalad, arcuate cau- 

 dad. Togmina ex('ee<ling the tips of the caudal 

 femora by about the length of the head; greatest 

 width at about three-fourths the length from the 

 |)roxiinal extremity and contain('<l al)out four and a 

 half times in the tegminal length: costal margin with 

 a very considerable roun(lc<l lobe, distad of which 

 the margin is straight to the point of greatest width 

 and arcuate thence to the apex, sutural margin 

 straight except for a sligiit proximal arcuation, apical region ob- 



Fig. 3. — Ilunutl- 

 OBajHirun riin- 

 onicuit II. liru. 

 andap. Uor- 

 Hul view of 

 head and pro- 

 notum. ( X 

 2§.) 




1908.] NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



liquely truncate with the apex rounded rectangulate. Wings fully 

 developed. Prosternal spine erect, rather slender, hardly tapering, 

 bluntly pointed. Interspace between the mesosternal lobes broad 

 oephalad, sharply narrowed to about a third the cephalic width, then 

 slightly and regularly expanded with the caudal angles of the lobes 

 rounded, the whole shape of the interspace being like a letter X with the 

 upper portion abnormally expanded and the lower portion drawn out; 

 interspace between the metasternal lobes narrow, inverteil, cuneiform. 

 Abdomen moderately compressed; supra-anal plate produced subequal 

 in width in the proximal half, distinctly narrowed mesad and thence 

 arcuate to the rather blunt apex; cerci slender, sul^equal in the jiroximal 

 half, roundly emarginate on the dorsal margin in the distal half, the 

 apex blunt, the distal fourth seen to be ilistinctlj'' arcuate mesad when 

 viewe<l from the dorsum; subgenital plate acute scaphiform, the apex 

 acutc-angulate, and the lateral portions of the plate distinctly con- 

 stricted proximad, ventral aspect with a distinct median keel. Cephalic 

 and median liml)s rather slender. Caudal femora about two-thirds 

 the length of the tegmina, the greatest width contained about four 

 times in the length, dorsal carina) serrato-dentate, pattern of the 

 pagina; well impresse<l, genicular lobes acute; caudal tibia slightly 

 shorter than the femora, lateral margin with nine spines one of which 

 is quite small and apical, internal margin with ten spine.*?, one apical; 

 caudal tarsi comparatively short and with the pulvilli largo. 



General color prout's brown, tawny-olive ventrad and tending 

 toward seal brown on the dorsum of the head, disk of the i)ronotum 

 and proximal portion of the tegmina. Ileatl with the face wa.sluMl witii 

 walnut brown, several pale bars crossing between the labrum and 

 me<lian ocellus; labrum ochre; sides of the head ventro-caudad of the 

 eyes washe<l with seal brown; eyes russet; antcmun wood brown dorsad, 

 Vandyke brown ventrad with the tip blackish. Pronotum slightly 

 touched laterad with walnut brown. Tegmina sprinkled ratlier 

 sparingly witii small subquadrate maculations of seal brown; angle of 

 the anal field rather pale. Wings transjiarent, tinted with pah* 

 brownish. Caudal femora with an obscure progenicular aiuuilus of seal 

 brown, tubercles on the carina^ and pattern of the pagiiue blackish; 

 caudal tibia) with the spines maize yellow with seal brown tips. 



MeasuremctUs. 



Length of ixnly, . . 2S.2 nun. 



Length of pronotum, 6 " 



Greatest caudal width of pronoiurn, 4 " 



Length of tegnicn 24. S " 



I^cngth of caudal femur, L') S " 




20 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



A series of five paratypic males have also been examined, taken- 

 from the first to nineteenth of September, 1900. In size they show 

 .«ome little variation, and in color there is a tendency in some speci- 

 mens to a more grayish coloration than in others, while in one specimen- 

 the color pattern is much more contrasted than in the type. Pale 

 bars on the lateral angles of the pronotum are sometimes present, the 

 ventral half of the eye also being suffused with seal brown in some 

 i^pecimens, while the small tegminal maculations frequently show a 

 tendency to associate in oblique transverse bars well defined or much 

 interrupted and from one to three in number. 



SCHISTOCEECA St&l. 



Schiatocerea gratissima n. sp. 



Schii^tocerca Uneata (Stoll)? according to Bruner, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mas., 

 XXX, pp. 675, 676 (1906)." 



Type: c?; Sao Paulo, Brazil. September 14, 1900. (Hempel.) 

 [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.] 



Schistocerca gratissima n. sp. Lateral view of typo. (X 1^.) 



AlUe<l to .S. jKillens (Thunberg) but differing in the sliortcr, blunter 

 fastigium, the lesser space between the eyes, the broader and more 

 truly elliptical eye, the more arcuate facial outline when viewetl 

 laterad and the anomalous pink and green coloration. 



Size large; form rather slender. Head with the occiput considerably 

 elevated and rounde<l, descending regularly to the fastigium and 

 rounding into the frontal costa; interspace between the eyes slightly 

 exceeding the greatest width of the fa.stigiuni; fastigium about as long 

 as broad, considerably excavated; frontal costa slightly constricted 



• We do not conHider tlie resemblance of Stoll's figure of (in/llus (Locusla) 



I'-rr'-i'-' iSaluurl. AfbecUl. licKch. Sprimjfi., I'l. XV Jl, t'lfi. .')7) close enough to 



'if tliis 8p<*(ie.i to consider tlieni the paine. \\ hih- in one or two points 



,'• ■ : .' e exibta, in a number of others the discrcpancicx are very consi<i(THl)li'. 



btoli'a figure appears to ub to be a true Locusla {AcriJium of autiiors). 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



21 



•dorsad, thence of a uniform width to the clypeus, deeplj' sulcate from 

 between the antenna to near the clypeus; facial outline when viewed 

 irom the lateral a.spect slightly arcuate; eyes eUiptical oval, distinctly 

 Jonger than the infraocular sulcus; antennae somewhat exceeding 

 the length of the head and pronotum together. Pronotum rounded 

 dorsad, hardly constricted, not tectate, disk of the metazona slightly 

 flattened; cephaUc margin of the disk very slightly angulate with a 

 hardly appreciable median emargination, caudal margin of the disk 

 nearly rectangulate, the apex verj'- broadly rounded, 

 median carina present but not high, cut by three 

 transverse sulci, prozona and metazona subequal in 

 length, the width of the metazona slightly greater 

 than its length, lateral angles not apparent on the 

 prozona, well rounded on the metazona; lateral lobes 

 considerably longer than deep, narrowing ventrad, 

 ventral margin truncate on the caudal half, obliquely 

 emarginate on the cephalic half. Tegmina exceeding 

 the apex of the abdomen by a distance about equal 

 to the length of the pronotum; costal margin con- 

 siderably arcuate in the distal third; apex broadly 

 rounded. Prosternal spine stout, acute, very consid- 

 erably retrorse; interspace between the mesosternal 

 lobes longitudinal, subcuneate, the interspace cephalad 

 being nearly as wide as the lobes; metasternal lobes 

 contiguous. Alxlomen somewhat compresse^l ; ccrci of 

 moderate length, the apex somewhat narrower than 

 the base, subtruncate; subgenital plate moderately produced, the 

 apex rather deeply divide<l. Caudal femora about reaching to the 

 apex of the abdomen, rather slender, mo<lioHlorsal carina serrate, 

 paginal with the pattern distinctly but not very deeply impressed ; 

 cau<lal tii)iip with the spines quite long, nine in number on the external 

 and eleven on tlie internal margins. 



General colors oil green, liver brown and salmon-buff. Head with 

 the face, an infraocular bar and the fastigium and occiput green, 

 remainder salmon-bufT; a poorly define* I me«li()-l<>ngitudinal occij)ital 

 pale band present, bordered latcrad by poorly defined darker areas; 

 eyes burnt umber; antonnif dull pinkish. Pronotum with the dorsum 

 green with a suhecjual mtnlian l)ar of vinaceous-rufous; lateral lolx'S 

 vinaceous-pink with a broati oblique bar of green. Mesothoracic and 

 metathoracic epimera green, mesothoracic and metathoracic cpisterna 

 and ventral portions of the thorax i)inkish. Tegmina with a costal 



Fig. 5. — Schislo- 

 cerca gralia- 

 sima n. sp. 

 Dorsal \iew 

 of head and 

 pronotum of 

 U-pe. (X U.) 




22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



bar of primrose yellow extending over almost the whole of the costal 

 half of the costal field, the greater ]>ortion of the margin of this pale 

 area being narrowl}- eilgeil with maroon, remainder of the tegmina 

 liver brown, the principal veins maroon, several pale areas, caused 

 by the coloration of adventitious veins, distributed over the median 

 portion of the tegmen; anal field with a rather broad longitudinal 

 band of vinaceous-cinnamon. Wings slightly infuscate. Cephalic 

 and median limbs buffy washed dorsad with greenish. Caudal femora 

 with the dorsal half oil green, the ventral half salmon-buff; the division 

 along the middle of the paginse being indicated by a slightly blackish 

 area, genicular arches chestnut; caudal tibiie and tarsi pomegranate- 

 purple, the spines maize yellow tipped with black. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, . .* 49.5 mm.. 



Length of pronotum, 9.5 " 



Greatest dorsal width of pronotum, 6 " 



Length of tegmen, 46.2 " 



Length of caudal femur, 25 " 



Two paratypic males in the Academy Collection and one of the same 

 sex from Surinam (V-IX; Fruhstorfer) in the Hebard Collection have 

 been examined. This series shows a consitlerable amount of variation 

 in size and some in color. One Sao Paulo male is about equal to the 

 type in size, the other two specimens ])eing appreciably smaller. The 

 additional Sao Paulo individuals agree fully with the type in color, while 

 the Surinam male has the greens much deeper, almost french green, 

 and the pink shades almost replaced by yellowish-white, sometimes 

 greenish-yellow, the purplish color of the caudal tibiic being weaker and 

 replace<l on the ventral surface by oil greenish. 



DICHE0PLU8 St&l. 

 Diehroplni bradlicnsii Bruner. 



\'.H)('). iJIrhrojilu.i lirasiliensis Hruner, Proc. U.S. Nut. Mus., X.\.\, p]). 678^ 

 (J.S2. [Nictoria, Jinizil.] 



Espirito Santo, Jirazil. [llel)ard C(jllection.] One 9 . 

 SSo Paulo. September 14, 1900. (Ilempel.) One 9 . 

 The pale bars mentioned in the original description arc hut faintly 

 indicated in these specimens. 



8C0TU88A Giglio-ToR. 

 Bootaiit braiilientii Hruner. 



1{HU). [Srolussd] hriisilicriNia liriiiuT, I'roc. V. .S. .\ut. Mils., XXX, p. 0.S9.. 

 [.SOo I'uulo, HrHzil.] 



Sao Phnlo. Sei)teml)er 7 19, 1900. f Hcinp.L) Six 6", four 9. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



These specimens agree fully with the original description except 

 in the number of external tibial spines. In three of the males both 

 tibiae bear eight spines, and another male has eight on one tibiae and 

 nine on the other. In consequence the presence of nine spines cannot 

 be considered diagnostic. 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



BEMABKS ON THE FOSSIL CETACEAN RHABDOSTEUS LATIRADIX Cope. 

 BY FREDERICK V^'. TRUE. 



The genus and species Rhabdostens latiradix were first described by 

 Cope in 1867/ and were based on a rostrum from Charles County, Md., 

 near the Patuxent River, collected by James T. Thomas. Three teeth 

 were also "with much probability" assigned to the species. Cope 

 remarked: "Joseph T. Thomas, the discoverer of this cetacean, tells 

 me that he has seen portions of the muzzle between two and three 

 feet long." 



No further original information regarding the species appears to 

 have been published until 1890, when Cope published figures of the 

 type specimen, as restored, and of a tooth. He remarked, however, 

 that the posterior parts of the maxillary and premaxillary bones "were 

 restored from a different specimen from that represented in the rest 

 of the figures,"^ This "different specimen" was figured by Mr. Case, 

 in 1904, together with still another rostrum' and the three teeth. 



From an examination of the three beaks, which were ver}-- kindly 

 placed in my hands for study by the authorities of the Philadelphia 

 Academy of Natural Sciences and Mr. Witmer Stone, it appears prob- 

 able that three species are represented. The rostrum figured by Mr. 

 Case in PI. 15, fig. 1, is the same as that described by Leidy, in 1869, 

 as probably belonging to Priscodelphiiius gratidccvus.* I have remarked 

 in a previous paper that the reasons for identifying the rostrum with 

 that sjK'cies are unsatisfactory,-^ but, however that may be, the rostrum 

 certainly does not belong to the same species as the one called Rhab- 

 dosteus latiradix by Cope, nor is it likely that it represents the same 

 genus. 



The "different specimen" mentioned by Cope in 1890, and figured 

 by Mr. Case in PI. 15, fig. 2, docs not, in my opinion, belong to the 

 species latiradix, nor is it at all probable that it belongs to the genua 

 Rhabdosteus. 



» Proe. Aead. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1867, pp. 132 and 145, 

 » Amer. Nat., 18W. p. G07, fig. 4. 

 » Rep. Maryland (ieol. Sure, .Miocene, 190 J, 1*1. l.j. 

 *Joum. Acad. Nat. 6ci. Phila., Ser. 2, Vol. 7. 1S09, p. l.'Jl. 

 » Smithsonian Miac. Colts., Quart. Issue, 50, Pt. 4. No. 1782, p. Ijl , January 27, 

 1908. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25 



Leaving out of consideration for the moment the rostrum originally 

 Assigned to Priscodelphinus grandcevus (Case's PI. 15, fig. 1), I would 

 remark that the restoration of neither of the other two hoaks appears 

 to me satisfactory, and that the figure published by Cope in ISl^J is 

 ■even less so. As regards the latter, by adding a portion from the 

 second beak to the posterior end of the type. Cope has, in my opinion, 

 produced a figure which does not represent any species which has 

 actually existed, and, furthermore, as the portion added is it.-elf 

 incorrect, the erroneousness of the figure is compounde<-l. It shoulil 

 also be remarked that in the side view (Cope's fig. 4 (la)) the alveoli 

 are much smaller than in the restoration of the tj^pe itself. 



Cope's note on the genus Rhahdosteus, published in 1890, is as follows : 



"The muzzle reaches an extraordinary elongation, and for the 

 greater part of its length forms an edentulous cylinder, which resembles 

 the beak of tlie sword-fishes. The few teeth which remain at the ba.se 

 of the muzzle are like those of Platanisia, with roots compressed so as 

 to be longitudinal, and crowas compressed so as to be transverse, to 

 the axis of the skull. The li. latiradix Cope is not uncommon in the 

 Miocene beds of Maryland. Its skeleton is unknown. The nearest 

 approach to Rhabdosteus is made by the genus Stenodelphis." 



After repeate<lly examining the typo specimen (1*1. \T). 1 am 

 satisfietl that this characterization is only j)artially correct. 



The alveoli, as restored, are horizontal. They are nine in number, 

 about equal in size, and situattnl in advance of the depression in the 

 palate in which a lozenge-shaped area of the vomer usuall}' appears. 

 Hence, they are hardly likely to represent the posterior end of the 

 series. That the alveoli should be horizontal in the midde of the 

 series is improbable. \o known cetacean has such a conformation, 

 and on anatomical grounds it appears unlikely to occur. The lower 

 (or inner) margin of the alveoli and the lower half of the various septa 

 are alone preserved, and thi.'^ only on one side of the jaw. No distinct 

 trace of the upper (or outer) margin of the alveoli and .septa can l>e 

 seen on the long nxl-like superior portions of the maxilhe. The narrow 

 inferior strij) of the ma.villa, which bears the incomplete alveoli and 

 septa (already mentioned), has been placetl outside the larger piece, 

 which forms the proximal end of the palate, and jjarallel with it. .Su<'h 

 a combination could be justificnl only on the gnjund that the maxilla 

 had split lengthwi.se, and that the outer and iimer pieces represent two 

 parts of one and the same bone. This is imi)robable. as the inferior 

 surface of the larger piece is convex, while that of the smaller piece 

 is nearly plane. The smaller piece is. in my opinion, much more likely 




26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



to have been anterior to the larger piece originally and in line with it, 

 though this would bring the rather large alveoli farther forward than 

 might be expected. If the superior, rod-like portion of the maxilla 

 were turned outward on its axis, so as to bring the alveoli nearly or 

 cjuite to a vertical position, a space would apparently be left between 

 the premaxilla and maxilla. It is not reasonable to suppose that any 

 such space exi.«^te<l originally. 



In view of the circumstances mentioned above, I think it is unlikely 

 that the real form of the rostrum can be determined until additional 

 specimens have been collected, or at least until the type specimen 

 has been taken to pieces, so that all the surfaces of the component 

 bones can be examined. 



\»i It should be remarked that at the anterior end of the small piece of 

 the maxilla which bears the alveoli there is a space of 19 mm., in which 

 it is obvious that no alveoli existed, and between this and the first 

 alveolus which is traceable is another space of about 25 mm., in which 

 additional alveoli may or may not have existed. In any case, the 

 fragment in question bears the end of the series of alveoli, and, if it is 

 properly oriented, the anterior end. As the fragment bearing the 

 alveoli is much shorter than the rod-like portions of the maxillae above 

 it, this confirms to some extent Cope's assertion that the muzzle "in 

 the greater part of its length forms an edentulous cjdinder." 



Measurements of the type-beak of Rhabdosteus laliradix Cope. 



Total length of beak, as restored, ... 440 mm. 



dreatest l)readth of the same, as restore<l, 39 " 



Length of longest piece of premaxilla j)reserve<l, ... 330 " 



Length of longest piece of maxilla preserved, 277 '» 



lirfadth of jiremaxilla at posterior end, . 11 " 



Breadth of jiremaxiila at anterior end 7 " 



Breadth of portion of maxilla above the alveoli at posterior 



end, 9 " 



Breadth of alveoli at anterior end, 7 " 



(Ireatest l)readth r)f palate between alveoli, as restored, . . 21 " 

 i^-ngth of the palatal [)ortion of the left maxilla, which con- 

 tains the alveoli, KiO 



Breadth of the same at the anterior end. 4 " 



Breadth of the same at the posterior end, 4 " 



l><*ngth of larger i>alatal fragment (left), which is iuicnial to 



the preceding in the restoration, 193 " 



Brna^lth of the same at the anterior end, 5 " 



Breadth of the same at the posterior end, 16 " 



Length oc(upie<l by nine alveoli, 103 " 



Ar)tcrr>-posterior breadth of largest septum between alveoli, . 5 " 



Antero-posterior breadth of largest alveolus, 7 " 




lOOS.] NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27 



The "different specimen" mentioned by Cope, and figured by Mr. 

 Case,' consists of two pairs of slender elongated bones, of which the 

 outer pair represents the superior rostral portion of the maxillap, and 

 the inner pair the superior rostral portion of the premaxilltp. The 

 maxillae diverge at both anterior and posterior ends, while the i)re- 

 maxillsB diverge at the anterior end and converge at the posterior end. 

 At the latter point, in the median line, is insertetl a piece of bone which 

 may represent a portion of the vomer or mesethmoid. 



After examining this specimen, I am of the opinion that it is not 

 properly put together, especially as a space is left between the maxillae^ 

 and premaxillsp proximally. The small fragment inserted between the 

 premaxillae does not belong in that position. It is unsymmetrical and 

 probably represents some portion of the maxilla. 



Traces of several alveoli are visible on the umler side of the maxillse, 

 at the proximal end. That these bones are acuminate at this end is 

 due to the fact that both the inner and outer edges are abraded. The 

 bones should be turned outward somewhat on their axc.'^. so that the 

 lower free border, which is now directed outward, would be directed 

 downward. This would l)ring the maxillre into such a position that 

 the upper surface would be horizontal proximally, very nnich as in 

 J Ilia. 



The two inner bones are probal)ly premaxilUv, although at the 

 anterior end the inner surface is plane or slightly convex rather than 

 concave. At the middle, the inner wall is concave, with traces of a 

 continuous longitudinal ridge. If they are really ])romaxill:r, they 

 sliould be transj)ose<l, that on the right side being jilaced on the left 

 and ricf rirsa. At the same time they should be given a quarter 

 turn on their axes, so as to make horizontal the inner surfaces which 

 are now vertical. This would also cause the bone« to diverge at the 

 posterior end, as they do in /ni'a and most other Odontoceti, leaving 

 space for the prenarial triangle. Their sha{)e would then corre- 

 spond closely to that of the same bones in Inin, except tliat tlie 

 Ki<les near the proximal end would be somewhat more nearly vertical. 



The specimen jjrobably re|)resents a genus allied to Inia, but it is 

 inip«)ssible without more material to tletermine its relationships accu- 

 rately. It does not agree with any European geiuis of which the 

 rostrum has been figured, nor with any American genus of which the 

 rofitrum is available fur comparison. 



Hr}). Maryland O'eol. Surv., Miocene, PI. 15, fig. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb.. 



The third rostrum (text fig. 1), which is that 

 mentioned by Leidy in 1869 under Priscodelphinns 

 (or lyctosphys) grandccvus,' and also figured by 

 Mr. Case,* has, as already mentioned, no close 

 relationship with the other two. It ma}' for the 

 present be considered a.s representing a species of 

 Priscodelphinus, although, as explained in a previ- 

 ous paper,' the reasons for referring it to that genus 

 are not satisfactory. 



The principal peculiarities of the rostrum are 

 that the premaxillsp are much depressed, but not 

 narrowed, anteriorly, that the anterior alveoli are 

 larger than the posterior ones and directed for- 

 ward, and that the external free border of the 

 maxillae is rounded (see text figs. 2 and 3). 



Fig. 2. — Transverse section of the s;inie at the posterior 

 end. (Nat. size.) 



Via. 1 . Uo-^tnirii of 

 PriK r 1) (I rl /> h i n u x 

 8p.? from thf Mii»- 

 C€*nc of Shiloh , N . J . 

 .Superior nurfacp. 

 (J nat. Hire.) 



I'ig. .3. — Transverse section of tlicsaineal tlieantf-rior end. 

 (.Vat. size.) In fips. 2 and 3 tlie niaxilhe an' indicateil 

 l)V horizontal lines and the preniaxillie l)y olthque line.s 



The three leetli which were provi.sionally 

 referred to Rhahdostcus by Cope are preserved in 

 the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 

 and were examine(l l)y me in 11X)7. \'ery good 

 figures of the largest one were publislied by Cope 



• Joum. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philn., Ser. 2, Vol. 7. isdl). p. 434. 

 ' /^7>. Mnr^ilandGeol. Surr., .Miocene, PI. l.'», (!«. 1. 



• SmilhKonian .Ui/rr. CoUm.. (^uarteriy I.ssue. .W, l*t, 4, No. 

 17S2, p. 451, January 27. IIKW. 




19D8.] NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29 



in 1890.'° This tooth and one other are blackish in color, while 

 the third tooth is 3'ellowish. The last mentioned is 21 mm. long, and 

 that figured by Cope 23 mm. 



As mentioned by Cope, both crown and root are compre.ssed, the 

 former at right angles to the latter." This form of tooth occurs in 

 Stenodclphis and in some genera of Dclphinklce. The crown is slightly 

 recurved. The base of the crown is somewhat convex, both internally 

 and externally, and is marked off from the root by a distinct con- 

 striction, due in part, no doubt, to wear. 



Teeth similar to these in size and form, from Baltringen, Wiirtem- 

 berg, Germany, were describeil and figured by Dr. J. Probst in 1886,'^ 

 under the name of Schizodclphis canaliculatus H. von Mej'er. This 

 species is considered identical with S. sulcatus by Dr. Abel, but the 

 teeth of the latter, figured by Dal Piaz,'' are certainly different, as 

 regards the shape of the crown and the direction of its compression, 

 from those figured by Probst. Even with allowance for variation, 

 it seems to me probable that they may represent two different species 

 of the geniLS Schizodelphis. The principal difference between the 

 teeth assigned to Rhabdosteus and those figured by Probst is that the 

 crown is shorter in the former. 



On the whole, it seems probable that the teeth described by Cope 

 belong to the genus Schizodclphis, but this is not a sufficient reason 

 for considering Rhabdosteus synonymo'us with Schizodclphis, especially 

 in view of the fact that it is uncertain whether the teeth have any 

 direct connection with the type rostnmi of Rh(d)dosteus. The most that 

 can be said is that the alveoli of Rhabdosteus indicate that the teeth 

 had flattened roots of the same size as those of the teeth which Cope 

 assigne<l to that genus. 



Explanation of Plate VI. 



Plate VI. — Fip. 1. — Type specimen of Rhabdosteus latiradix Cope. Superior 

 surface. Scale — ^• 

 Fig. 2. — The same. Loft side. Scale ,j. 

 Fig. 3. — The same. Inferior surface. Scale .^ j^. 



'• Amcr. .\ut., IMHI. p. IW)7. fip. 1 (2, 2a, 26). 



" Tliat the anterior and posterior surfaces of the crown are Mat ia not due to 

 wear. 



" Jahrcshefte Ver. Vatcrlun<l. XiilurktiTule W urtlembcrg , 12, ISSG, PI. 3. figs. 

 11-11. 



" Palaont. I tat.. 9, IM. 31. figs. 0-28. 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



March 3. 

 Arthur Erwin Brown, Sc.D., Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Sixty-four persons present. 



The reception of a paper entitled "Xew Land and Fresh-water Mol- 

 hisca of the Japanese Empire," by H. A. Pilsbry and Y. Hirase (Febru- 

 ary 28), was reported. 



Dr. John W. Harshberger made a communication on his dendro- 

 logical studies in Italy, with special reference to the influence of vegeta- 

 tion on the building up of the i.slands on which \'enice is placed, and 

 on the condition of the timber foundations of the Campanile as revealed 

 at the time of its fall. (Xo abstract.) 



March 17. 

 Arthur Erwix Brown, Se.D., Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Fifty-nine persons present. 



The Publication Committee reported the reception of a i^aper entitled 

 "New Land Shells from the Chinese Empire— I," by H. A. Pilsbry and 

 V. Hirase (March 11). 



E. G. CoNKLiN, Ph.D., made a communication on some plicnoniona 

 and causes of heredity. (No abstract.) 



The following were ordered to be published : 




1 90S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. J^31 



NEW LAND AND FRESH-WATER MOLLUSCA OF THE JAPANESE EMPIRE. 

 BY H. A. PILSBRY AXD Y. HIRASE. 



f Among other new forms noticed below, the first Pisidium from Japan 

 is described. It is from the island of Yesso, where the palsearctic 

 element isinuch better represented than in other parts of the Empire. 



FoRMOSAX Species. 

 Cyolophorus formosaensis Xevill. 



This is apparently confined, in its typical form, to northern Formosa. 

 Numerous specimens from Hoozan, Easuiko. Sammaipo and Hotawa 

 — places all in the interior below the middle of the island — differ 

 by having a strong keel at the periphery, and may be known 

 as C /. inierioris n. subsp., Sammaipo being type locality. It is 

 this form which we formerly li.sted as C turgidus Pfr. from Hotawa 

 {Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, p. 722). It differs from C. turgidus 

 in the very much smaller central nipple or mucro tni the inside of the 

 operculum. The shells are practically indistinguishable. Our former 

 opinion that C. formosaensis is a variety of C. turgidus must be retracted. 

 We doubt whether C. turgidus occui^s in Formosa. The species of this 

 group of Cj'clophori stand very close, and their differences are not 

 of much importance, yet the areas occupied by the several slightly 

 differentiated races are mainly different. 



Cyclophorai frieiianus MIUlfT. 



This spocics has been found at Tapanii, Formosa, the specimens 

 agreeing well with the original description except by their smaller 

 size. alt. 10, diam. 22 mm. It differs from C. formosnensis intrriori,'< 

 only in having numerous low spiral ridges above and below the peripheral 

 keels. The operculum is like that of formosaensis, evenly convex inside 

 with a very small central nipple. 



Species of Japan- and the Ryukyi' Islands. 



Cyolotui tanegaihimanni n. np. 



Shell very siniihir to C aimpnnulatus Mart-;., but if specimens of the 

 same size are eompared, tanegashimanus is seen to have the umbilicus 

 a trifle larger an<l the aperture just perceptibly smaller; the lip is less 

 c'xpande<l. The operculum is distinctly convex exlcnmllij, anil much 




32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



more deeply eoneave inside, than that of C. campofudatus. The edge 

 is bevelled and flat between projecting outer and inner lamintc. 



Alt. S.5, diam. 12.2 mm.; whorls 4\. 

 " 7.1 " 10 " " -il. 



Tanega-shima, Osumi. Types No. 94,711 A. X. S. P., from No. 54^ 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



The Cvcloti of this group, represented in Japan by C. aimpanidatus, 

 and in China by C. stenomphalus and its allies, are very similar in shape 

 and color. The form described above is well distinguished by its 

 externally convex operculum, that of C. cainpanidatus being fiat out- 

 side and much less concave within. 



Spiropoma yaknihimanum n. sp. 



The shell is depressed, very openly umbilicate, solid, yellowish- 

 olivaceous, somewhat brownish on the last whorl, the cuticle much 

 paler or usually wanting on the inner whorls. Surface glossy where 

 imworn, marked with growth-lines and very indistinct traces of spiral 

 strife. Wliorls fully 4^, cpiite convex, the first one projecting a little; 

 last whorl tubular, very convex at the base, tleeply descending in front. 

 Aperture oblicjue, longer than wide. Peristome contracted, being 

 thickened within and shortly built forward; obtuse, whitish. It is 

 tliickened in the posterior angle, but usually has a small notch there. 

 The colimiellar margin recedes rather conspicuously. The short 

 j)arietal margin is thick and straight. 



Alt. 7.3, diam. 12.5, alt. of aperture including peristome 5.3, width 

 4.7 mm. 



Alt. 6.3, diam. 11.5 mm. 



The operculum is conic, composed of 7^ fhit whorls separated by a 

 narrow ledge with raised outer edge, producing a narrow spiral channel 

 along the suture; summit obtuse. 



Yaku-shima, Osumi. Types No. 94,71(3 A. X. S. V., from No. 

 1,447 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Compared with S. jfiponicum (A. Ad.), this form differs in tlio more 

 descending la.'^t whorl, the deeper umbilicus and more excised or 

 receding columellar lip. The aperture is longer tliau wide; in yaku- 

 shimanum, nearly round in juponicum. It is i)crha])s more closely 

 related to .S. nukadni of Tanega-shima, a smaller shell with an oper- 

 culum of fewer whorls, but having an aperture nnidi as in .S'. y<iku- 

 shitn'iimtn. 

 Oiplommatina gotoensii n. ^p. 



Closely related to I), eassa, but with longer conical spir(>. lapidly 

 tapering and conic above the penultimate whorl, which is tlie largest ; 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ' 33 



pale reddish or yellowish-corneous; very finely and evenly striate 

 throughout. Constriction in the middle in front. Last whorl smaller, 

 only moderately ascending to the aperture. Aperture subcircular, 

 the out€r lip reflexed, duplicate, the two laminae close together, a 

 narrow opaque whitish streak just behind the reflection; indistinctly 

 angular at the base of the columellar lip. Parietal callus thin with 

 low, thread-like edge, not very distinct, and rising to the middle of the 

 front of the penultimate whorl, Columellar lamella horizontal, thin, 

 rather long. Palatal plica quite short and situated wholh' to the left 

 of the parietal callus. Inside, the columellar lamella is evenly high and 

 thin throughout. Internal parietal lamella low and rather long. 



Length 3, diam. L5mm.; whorls 6\. 

 " 2.7, " 1.3 " " 6^. 



Goto, Hizen. Types No. 84,905 A. X. S. P.. from No. 6046 of Mr. 

 Hira.se's collection. 



This species resembles D. nipponcnsis Mlldff. in sliape and sculpture, 

 but differs by the position of the constriction, which is median in 

 gotoensis, above the termination of the outer lip in nipponensis. In the 

 latter species the palatal plica lies under the parietal callus. D. cassa 

 is a more cylindric species, the cone of tlie spire siiorter. D. kyushuen- 

 sis Pils. and Hir., a widely distributed species in Kyushu, is closely 

 relate<l to D. (intocnsis, l)ut it has a palatal plica al)out twice as long, 

 and the columellar lamella is much stronger near its inner termination 

 than near the aperture, while in I), f/otncnsis it is about equally strong 

 throughout. 



Ealota (Pleototropis) lepidophora scutifera P. and 11., n. .sub.sp. 



The shell closely resembles E. lepidophora tenuis Gude, but differs by 

 its more convex whorls and consequently deeper sutures. The 

 periphery is often a little less angular than in tctiuis. Surface, when 

 unworn, cojiiously covered with triangular cuticular scales. 



Alt. 4.3, diam. 8.7 mm,; whorls 5^, 

 " 4, " 7.3 " " 5i. 



Iheyajima, Ryukyu grouj). Types No. 94,705 A. N. S, P., from Xo. 

 1,2906 of Mr. Hira.se's collection. 



Ealota (Aegiita) oelia P. and H., n. sp. 



The shell is convexly conic, deeply umbilicafc, the umbilicus cylin- 

 dric, well-hke, the periphery obtusely angular. Surface lusterless, 

 chestnut brown, finely but not strongly striate on the upper surface, the 

 strife indistinct at the ba.se; on the la-^t part of the la.st whorl near the 

 aperture the stria; are partially inlerrupttHl into long granules. The 

 8 




34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Mafch, 



spire has convex outlines and an obtuse apex. WHiorls 6 J, convex, 

 very slowly widening, the last one very slowly and j^lifrhtly descending, 

 indistinctly angular at the periphery' in front, becoming rounded on the 

 last half. Tlie apertiu-e is quite oblique, very much larger than the 

 umbilicus. Peristome thin ; outer margin only very slightly expanded ; 

 basal margin deepl}'' arcuate, slightly expanded; columellar margin 

 broadly, triangularly dilated. The terminations of the lip are widely 

 separateil. parietal callus very thin. 



-\lt. 10.5, diam. 12 mm. ; alt. and width of aperture 6 mm.; width of 

 umbilicus 3 mm. 



South Xishigo, Uzen. Type No. 94,740 A. X. S. P., from Xo. 1,438 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This peculiar Aegista has some superficial resemblance to Trish- 

 oplita hilgendorji Kob. It is closely related to E. eminens P. and H., 

 but differs in being larger, stronger, with less scaly sculpture, and a 

 little less strongly angular. It is quite possible that intermediate 

 provinces between Shima and Uzen will be found to have connecting 

 links between E. eminens and E. celsa ; j'et at present they seem to be 

 sufficiently distinct. 



The type specimen is higher than others in the t>'pe lot. The lower 

 ones have less convex outlines, the spire being less convexly conic; 

 the last two whorls have sculpture of long granules in places ; and the 

 umbilicus is much wider than in the type. Alt. 9, diam. 13.8 mm.; 

 aperture 6x6 mm. ; umbilicus 3.5 mm. wide {celsus, lofty), 



Ena rtiniana vatta n. subsp. 



Shell very large, cylindric. The cuticle is glossy, yellowish brown, 

 and copiou.sly granulose except on 3 or 4 earliest whorls; but many 

 old shells have lost the cuticle and sculpture in part or wholly. Whorls 

 8to9i. 



Length 37.5, diam. above aperture 11 mm. 

 " 35 " " " 10.8 " 



" 32.5 " " " 11.2 " 



S. Xi.'^higo, Uzen. Types No. 94,686 A. X. S. P., from Xo. 1,439 

 of Mr. Hira'^e's collection. 



This Is the largest of the Japanese Bulimini. It is larger than 

 Ena reiniana omiensu, and copiously granular when unworn. 



Ena rainiana ugoeniit n. aubup. 



Shell very short and obese, re<l(lish on the spire, wliiti.sh on the last 

 whorl, under a thin yellow cuticle; granulation only weakly developed. 

 Whorls 7i. 




190s.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 35 



Length 26, diam. above aperture 10, length of aperture 10 mm, 

 " 23, " " " 10, " " 9.2 " 



Kitaura (Cape of Ojika), Ugo. Types No. 94,738 A. N. S. P., from 

 No. 1,444 of Mr. Hira.^e's collection. 



The obese .shape, length about 2^ times the diameter, is the chief 

 character of this local race, 



Pythia paohyodon n. .sp. 



This species of the scarabccus group is nearly uniform blackish olive, 

 but with a, blackish band below the suture and sometimes ^\^th more or 

 less brown suffusion. The surface is rather finely \\Tinkle-striate, with 

 some widely spaced spiral lines. Spire angular on both sides, with 

 •whitish streaks in front of the angle. Whorl.-; 10. Base perforate or 

 umbilicate. Aperture with two stout parietal teeth and a strong 

 columellar lamella. Teeth in the outer margin irregular, three larger, 

 with two or three minute ones. 



Length 30.6, greatest diam. 18.5, antero-posterior diam. 13.5 mm.; 

 length of aperture 18.5 mm. 



Loochoo (Okinawa) and Oshima,in the Ryukyu Islands. Types No. 

 87,537 A. N. S. P., from Mr. Hira.se. 



Pythia aegialitii n. ^p. 



The shell is similar to P. pnchyodon,hut is copiously mottled with dark 

 brown (jn a pale corneou.s-yellowish ground; the markings .sometimes 

 partially obscured when the surface is superficially worn. Teeth of the 

 inner margin as in P. pachyndon; three teeth in the outer lip. 



Length 25.3, greatest diam. 15.6, antero-posterior diam. 11, length 

 of aperture 16.7 mm, 



Loochoo (Okinawa) and Osliima, Ryukyu Islands. 



The specimeas from Oshima are somewhat longer and comparatively 

 less wide than those from Loochoo Island. 



While closely relat<^^l to the P. scambama group, which is composed of 

 very poorly characterize<l species, yet the two Hyukyuun forms do not 

 exactly agree with any of them, and it may be well to have definite 

 designations for them. 



He-sides the.'^e forms, /'. cecillci Phil, has l>een found by .Mr. llirase 

 at Hirado, Hizen, and /'. nana Bavay wa-s described from specimens 

 taken at Loochoo. 



Piiidiam japonioom n. up. Fir. 1. 



The shell is subglobose, rounded-oval, with large, very wide, moder- 

 ately j)rojecting rounded beaks; .surface glcjs,sy, very finely, irregularly 

 btriate; cuticle light yellow; valves very convex, not very ineijuipartite, 




36 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[jMarch, 



both ends rounded , the posterior shorter and wider. Hinge very short, 

 the lateral teeth short and w4de, rather near together, stout but low^ 



Fig. 1. — Pis^idium japonicum, lateral, posterior and interior views. 



only the anterior one projecting above the level of the valve. Cardinal 

 teeth minute, almost obsolete, narrow, very low and somewhat elongate. 



Length 2.37, alt. 2.16, diam. 1.87 mm. 



Akkeshi, Kushiro, Yesso. Types No. 94,744 A. N. S. P., from No. 

 181 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This is the first Pisidium to be described from Japan. It is a very 

 small species, unusually globose, with very large full beaks. 




1908. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



37 



NEW LAND SHELLS OF THE CHINESE EMPIRE-I. 

 BY H. A. PILSBRY AND Y. HIRASE. 



The following species were collected by Mr. Xakada in the course of 

 several months' work, chiefly in the north. A more ample report 

 will be publi.shed later. Working chiefly in the densely populated 

 northeastern provinces and not far from the coast, the number of 

 species taken was naturally not great, though some, such as VaUonia 

 patens lieinh. ,'Eulola? tnunieriana Cr. & Deb., etc., are forms hitherto 

 but little known. Aroimd Soochow and Hangchow a fauna richer in 

 Clansili(e, Helices and Cydophoridce was encountered, most of the 

 species in this region being among those describetl by Pere Heude and 

 earlier naturalists. 



/^^. 



DIPLOMMATINID^. 



Diplommatina hangohowensis n. sp. Fife- I- 



The shell is short, cylindric, the sununit shortly conic, base rounded ; 



corneous or pale brownish, somewhat translucent, the upper part 

 whitish or pale red. Wliorls b\, very convex. 

 The first whorl is smootii; following whorls are 

 very finely and delicately rib-striate; on tiie 

 penultimate whorl the ribs are nuich weaker, 

 ami the hu<t wjiorl is smooth. In l)ack view the 

 penultinmtc wliorl is largest, the last whorl 

 much smaller and quite glossy, ascending a 

 little near its cud, and constricte<l in front, 

 above the columella. A short palatal j)lica 

 shows through, just left of the parietal callus. 

 The aperture is nearly circular. The peristome 

 is expandetl and thickeneil, with a Mat face and 

 inconspicuous inner rim; at the base of the 

 cohunella it is very indistinctly angular; it is 



int<'rrupte<l above, the margins joine<l by a thin parietal eallus, with 



thin adnate edge. Columellar lamella well develope*!. 

 Length 2.4,diam. 1..S nun., alt. of aj>erture 0.0.') mm. 

 Hangchow, province of Che-kiang, China. Types No. '.)},71S \. .\. 



S. P., from No. 1,479a of .Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Fip. 1. — Di/ilnrnmnlinn 

 hanifrfiinrinxis. 




38 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[March, 



This species of the section Sinica is smaller than D. paxillus Gredler, 

 and differs by its smootli last whorl and very short jialatal plica. It 

 is more related to D. hungerfordiana of Formosa, which differs in 

 shape. D. schmackeri Mlldff. is unlike hangchourrisis by the shape of 

 the aperture. 



A variety also from Hangchow may be called D. hangchowensis 

 granum. It is larger, length 2.7, diam. 1.5 mm., with 6 whorls and 

 pale retldish-corneous color. The cone of the spire is longer than in 

 D. hangchowensis. 



HYDROCENID^ 



The genus Georissa is represented by six species in China: G. bnch- 

 manni Gredl., G. sinensis Hde., G. nivea Hde., G. sulcata Mlldff., 

 hungerfordiana Mlldff., and G. heudei P. & H. In all of these except 

 sinensis and heudei the glossy, flat operculum is retracted some dis- 

 tance in the aperture, This is the normal condition in Georissa. 



In G. sinensis and G. heudei the thick, calcareous operculum lodges at 

 the edge of the peristome, as in Bithynia, being larger than in Georissa 

 proper. We propose to signalize this feature by the erection of a new 

 subgenus Georissopsis, the type being G. heudei. 

 Georissa i Georissopsis) heudei n. sp. Fig. 2. 



The shell is minutely perforate or subperforate, conic, liigher than 

 wide, gray, more or less reddish in places, sculptured with very fine, 



close spiral striae, usually in 

 large part lost by erosion. 

 There are 3^ to 3J whorls, the 

 first corneous and glossy, the 

 rest very convex, separated by 

 deep sutures. The aperture is 

 subvertical, broadly semicir- 

 cular, the outer margin very 

 convex, inner margin nearly 

 straight; the basal margin is 

 very broadly rounded, the 

 upper end narrowly rounded. 

 The peristome is thin, acute; 

 the inner lij) is l)uilt forward, 

 standing free from the whorl except for a short space near the posterior 

 end, leaving an umbilical area. 

 ]j'Ufi\]i 3.4. diam. 2.1 nun. 

 The operculum l(j<lge« at the lii)-e<liie. It is between triangular and 



Fig. 2. — G. hrndei aiul ovitlinr 

 culuiii, int«'rif>r view. 



)f OJMT- 




190S.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



39 



semicircular in shape, calcareous, thick, white, with a dark nuclear 

 dot nearer the outer border; around this it has concentric growth-lines. 

 The inner face is concave. Near the lower third a stout rib arises 

 about the middle of the \\-idth, running to the columellar border 

 where it projects as a short point. 



Hangchow, province Che-kiang, China. Types Xo. 94,745 A. N. S. 

 P., from Xo. 1,477 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This species is very similar to G. sinensis (Hde.) in characters of the 

 shell, but it differs in the operculum, which is figured as with sub- 

 central nucleus in G. sinensis, while in G. heudei the nucleus is near the 

 outer border. We have no reason to doubt the accuracy of Heude's 

 figure. It was drawn by Rathouis, whose faithful drawings have prob- 

 ably never been surpassed. Unfortunately Pcre Heude, who described 

 G. sinensis as a Realia, did not describe the operculum, merely saying 

 that "I'opercule est celui du genre." 



Some specimens from Changyang, received as G. sinensis, are much 

 smaller than Fhre Heude's type. They have a dark, subcentral 

 nuclear dot. 



G. heudei occurred at Hangchow with the much smaller G. bach- 

 manni Gredl. 



HELICID^. 



Eulota laeva P. and H., n. sp. 



The shell is sinistral, depressed-globose with conic spire, narrowly 

 half-covered umbilicate, thin, light corneous-yellow. Surface glo.ssy, 

 smooth to the eye, but under a lens it is seen to have very weak, faint 

 growth-lines, the last two whorls densely, minutely granular, the granu- 



Kig. 3. — A'. /<rifi, l)a.HJiI, front and dorsal vi<'ws. 



lation weak on the upper surface, more distinct on the base; there are 

 also some weak traces of a few coarse, impres.sed spirals on tlie last 

 whorl. The spire is conic with slightly convex outlines and obtuse 

 apex. Whorls 5J, slowly increasing convex, the last descending a little 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



to the aperture and indistinctly angular in front, the base verj' convex. 

 The aperture is quite oblique, the upper and baso-columellar margins 

 about equally arcuate, the outer arc more strongly curved. The peris- 

 tome is thin, narrowly but well expande<l, the baso-columellar margin 

 reflexed, somewhat dilated towards the columellar insertion. 



Alt. 12.5, diam. 13.8 mm. ; aperture 7.5 mm. high, 8 wide. 



Hangchow, province Che-kiang, China. Type Xo. 94,739, A. N. 

 S. P., from Xo. 1,475 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This is a more compact shell than Eulota jortunei and quite different 

 in sculpture. The generic position is uncertain, until the soft anatomy 

 can be examined. It may belong to the section Eulotella, or it maj' 

 be a Ganesella. The minute granulation is like some species of the 

 G. japonica group. We do not know of any sinistral Ganesella, but 

 there are many sinistral species of Eulota. 



Dead and bleached shells which have lost the cuticle do not show the 

 granulation described above. The largest example seen measures, 

 alt. 12, diam. 16.5 mm. It is a dead shell. 



Enlota (Plectotropis) scitula P- and H., n. sp. Fig. 4. 



The shell is rather narrowly umbilicate, conic above, convex below, 

 strongly angular at the periphery; uniform chestnut brown. The sur- 

 face is rather dull, finely closely and rather weakly marked with growth- 

 striae, which in quite fresh, unworn sheUs bear short adnate cuticular 

 threads on the base, giving it a sparsely scaly appearance. The last 

 two whorls have also a very close, fine sculpture of beautifully even spiral 



Fig. 4. — Eulota (Pleclolropis) scitula. 



Striae. The outlines of the conic spire are nearly straight. Wliorls 6J, 

 slowly incrfasing, moderately convex, the last descending very little or 

 not at all in front, convex beneath. The aperture is strongly oblique, 

 rounded lunate. Peri.stome thin, narrowly Ijut distinctly expanded, the 

 basocolumellar margins a little reflexed, dilated towards the columellar 

 insertion; ends widely 8eparute<l, joine«.l by a thin film. 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



41 



Alt. 6.5, diani. 9.2 mm.; aperture alt. 4, width 4.6 mm.; umbilicus 

 1.7 mm. wide. 



Alt. 6.5, (Ham. 9 mm. 



Hangchow, province Che-kiang, China. Types No. 94,741 A. X. 

 S. P., from No. 1,471 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



A small, beautifully sculptured shell, which we are unable to identify 

 with any of Pere Hcude's species from the lower Yangt.se valley. It 

 has some resemblance to E. inornata and belongs to a group of 

 thin, dull species with the shell spirally engraved, cuticular scales small 

 or wanting, anil usually with no peripheral fringe. Other species of this 

 group are E. osbecki, inornata, hachijoensis, fulvicans, lautsi, micra, 

 perpkxa. inrinensis, hebes, etc. 



Chloritis impotens P. an<l H., n. sp. Fig. 5. 



Shell depressed -globose, narrowly umbilicate, thin and fragile, 

 corneous-brown. The surface ha.s a somewhat silky sheen, and under 

 the lens is seen to be densely set with small granules, which are long 

 in the direction of growth-lines, and arranged in oblique, forwardly 

 descending rows, though this arrangement is not everywhere visible, 

 being in part or wholly lost near the mouth. This granular sculpture 

 extends almost to the apex, only the initial half whorl or less being 

 smoothish, though not glossy. On the last two whorls the granules 



^^ '' _i iii-Vi*J^^^^^ 



.< 



■//>^ 



Fig. 5. — C. impotens, basal, front and dorsal views, and sculpture of last whorl 



below suture. 



bear short cuticular apj)C'ii(lag('.'^ in frc.^h, unworn shells, such jvs are 

 often present in ^gista and Pledotropis. The spire is low-conic. 

 Whorls 5, convex, at first slowly increasing, the last one abruptly 

 becoming nuich wider, about twice the width of tlie |)rece<iing, not 

 noticeably descending in front, rounded at the periphery. The aper- 

 ture is rouride<l-lunate.nu)derateIyobli(|ue. Peristome thin throughout, 

 the outer and basal margins very slightly expande<l, coluiuellar mar- 

 gin broatUy, triangularly dilate<l, half covering the umbilicus. 



Alt. S.7, diam. 12.6 mm. ; alt. aperture (5.5, width 7.5 mm. 



Cliifoo, province Pe-chili, China. Types No. 91,712 A. N. S. P., 

 from No, 1,468 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 




42 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [.March, 



A thin, fragile shell, with large aperture and densely, minutely 

 granose-scaly sculpture. In full}- adult shells the granulation is more 

 or less worn from the apical and early whorls, and on the last whorl the 

 long granules appear to be glossy, but hardly if at all raised above the 

 dull surface. The generic position of this snail is uncertain, but it has 

 the shell characters of Trichochloriiis rather than of any group known 

 anatomically to belong to Eulota. 



PUPILLID^. 

 Hjpselostoma (Bojsidia) hangfohowensis P. and H., n. sp. 



The shell is higii-conic, with obtuse apex and convex base, minutely 

 perforate, with a long curved umbilical rimation, dark brown. The 

 spire is straightly conic, composed of 5^ 

 convex whorls. The last whorl ascends 

 slowly to the aperture, its latter part being 

 straightened and built forward to the level 

 of the ventral face of the shell. There is no 

 crest or marked constriction behind the lip. 

 The aperture is truncate-oval, the upper mar- 

 gin straight. Peristome thin, well expanded, 

 continuous; with a shallow dent outside at 

 the upper third of the outer lip. The angular 

 and parietal lamellae are concrescent into one 

 stout straight lamella reaching to the margin. 

 Fig. G.—H. hangchowensis. ^^ider in the middle of its length, where it 

 shows traces of its dual composition. The 

 columellar lamella is strong, slopes obliquely downward as it enters, 

 and the outer end reaches to, but not upon, the expansion of the lip. 

 There are two short palatal plicie, the lower one somewhat more deeply 

 placefl. 



Alt. 2.9, diam. 1.8 mm.; largest axis of aperture 1.3 nnii. 

 Ilangchow, province Che-kiang, China. Type No. 94,743 A. N. S. 

 P., from Mr. Hirase. 



CV)m[)are<l with //. (lioysiflia) hunnna (lre<ller, this is a much smaller 

 shell, with only two palatal plicif instea<l of three, and the angulo- 

 parietal lamella is less distinctly bifid, as seen in an obliquely basal 

 view. It is not closely rclate<l to other dcscribtHi species. 



//. han(jchowensis was found with liijidaria {Bciisondla) plicidens 

 (Bens.), a species not before reporter! from China, but found in the 

 Ryukyu Islands, fis well as in subhiniahiyan India. 

 II. hunuiui as described and figured i>y Gretller has the last whorl 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43 



built forward, carrying the aperture free from the preceding whorl. 

 We have not seen this form; the specimens of hunana before us, while 

 agreeing with Gredler's description in other characters, do not have 

 the last whorl free in front, though the peristome is continuous. They 

 are like Pere Heude's figures of hunana. Dr. von MoUendorff has 

 unnecessarily altered the naine hunana to hutianensis. 



We share with Gredler the opinion that Boysidia is a section or sub- 

 genus of Hypselostoma rather than a distinct genus. 




44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



April 7. 

 Arthur Erwin Brown, Sc.D., in the Chair. 

 Thirty-seven persons present. 



The RibUcation Committee reported the reception of papei-s under 

 the following; titles : 



"Description of a new Species of Squaloid Shark," by Chiyomatsu 

 Ishikawa, Ph.D. (March 18, 1908). 



"Notes on Succinea oralis Say and S. obliqua Say," by H. A. Pilsbry 

 (March 21). 



"Animal Names and Anatomical Terms of the Goshute Indians," 

 by Ralph V. Chamberlain (March 28). 



" Notes on Sharks," by Henry W. Fowler (March 28). 



"Generic Types of Nearctic Reptilia and Amphibia," by Arthur 

 Envin Brown (April 7). 



The death of Henry Clifton Sorby, a correspondent, March 9, was 

 reported. 



Dr. Hexry W. Cattell made a communication on Tiypanosomiasis 

 in man and animals. (No abstract.) 



April 21. 

 Arthur ER^v^N Brown, Sc.D., in the Chair, 

 Twenty-eight persons present. 



The Publication Committee reported that papers under the following 

 titles had been presentefl for publication: 



"On the Classification of Scalpilliform Barnacles," by Henry A. 

 Pilsbry (April 21). 



The death of James M. Ridings, a member, March 7, wa^ announced. 



Mu. Harold Selleils Colton made a communication on Charles 

 Wilson Peale and tlic Philmlelphia Museum. (No abstract.) 



Henry H. Donaldson, M.D., was electe<l a member. 



T]u' following were ordcrwl to bf> pririf*^! : 




1908.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 45 



NOTES ON SUCCINEA OVALIS Say AND S. OBLIQUA Say. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



Since Gould's publication on the Succineas of Massachusetts in 1841, 

 there has been more or less confusion as to the identity of Succinea 

 ovalis Say. The facts in the case were pointed out by Dr. Binney in 

 1851, but unfortunately a faulty manner of correcting Gould's mistake 

 was adopted, resulting in two errors of nomenclature in place of one. 

 Some yeai-s ago the writer rectified the current usage, restoring Say's 

 name ovalis to its original significance. This correction has been 

 accepted by many recent writers, but there are a few conspicuous 

 exceptions ; hence it seems necessary, in the interest of uniform nomen- 

 clature, to demonstrate the status of S. ovalis by giving its history 

 somewhat fully. 



Observation; on the mantlo-markings of Succinea, made in New 

 York several years ago, also find place here. These color markings are 

 shown to be highly variable among individuals of a single colony, yet 

 the general pattern differs to a greater or less extent in different species. 

 Tiie subject is worth further investigation, l)oth from the standpoint of 

 variation and also systematically, as an aid in distinguishing species in 

 this dilHcult genus. 

 Sacoinea ovalis Sny. 



The actual type or types of Sticcinea ovalis Say are no longer in 

 exi.stence; but tiiree specimens labclle<l and mounte<l on a can! by Say 

 are extant, representing what hesubse<iuently considereil to \)qS. ovalis. 

 The original description must have been drawn from immature in- 

 dividuals, the measurements, "length nine-twentieths of an inch, 

 aperture seven-twentieths," being only about two-tliirds to three- 

 fourths the ordinary size attained around Philadelphia. The pro- 

 portion of aperture to length given by Saij agrees with specimens I 

 have measured, bul ivith no other Succinea of this region. This common 

 Philadelphian snail, still Hving in Fairmount Park, is imlistinguish- 

 ablc from what Lea subsequently describe< I from Newport, II. I., a-s S. 

 totteniaim. 



In the Tableau Syst^matique de la Famille des Lima^ons, p. 26 (1821), 

 F6russnc records Succinea ovalis Say as comrininicatai to him by Say, 

 and figured on plat<j XIa, fig. 1 of the Hisloire, etc.. which was 




46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



issued in 1822. The two figures given represent the form now com- 

 monly known as "S. tottcniatia" (but properly called 5. ovalis Say), 

 and still found around Philadelphia. These figures agree perfectly 

 with the specimens labelled by Say in the collection of the Academy. 

 On the same plate F^russac figures larger forms {"S. obliqua^' of 

 authors) as varieties of S. put r is (figs. 7, S). He also figures large 

 ovalis (totteniana) from "the islands Miquelon and Saint Pierre, near 

 Newfoundland" (fig. 9). 



The species S. ovalis was therefore very well figured by Ferussac, 

 from author's specimens, prior to Say's description of S. obliqua; and 

 there was but scant excuse for mistaking it, except that but few 

 American workers possessed the large and expensive Histoire naturelle 

 gvnerole el particidiere des Mollusques terrcstres ct fluviotilcs. 



Beck, 1837. and other early European writers accepted the species, 

 referring to F^russac's figures. 



Succinea ovalis was correctly recognized also by various early 

 American writers for the form later known as totteniana. See DeKay's 

 New York Fauna, Mollusca, p. 53, PI. 4, figs. 51, 52. It was Gould 

 who by error shifte<l the names, in the first edition of the Invertebrata 

 of Massachusetts (1841). He recognized three Succineas in that 

 State : 



S. ovalis, fig. 125 [= *S. retttsa Lea]. 



S. campestris, fig. 126 [= S. ovalis Say = totteniana Lea]. 



S. avara, fig. 127 [correctly identified]. 



Gould subsequently recognized his two mistakes, and finding that 

 the names S. ovalis Say, obliqua Say and campestris Gould, not Say, 

 all applied to one species, he proposed to retain the name obliqua for 

 it, and to ase "S. ovalis GUI. not Say" for S. retusa, the snail he had 

 figured in error as Say's ovedis. 



DeKay, C. B. Adams and Sager, who used Gould's work, were in some 

 measure mi.sled, especially in regard to S. campestris. DeKay (1843), 

 as mentioned above, correctly identified S. ovalis. 



In 1851 Dr. Amos Binney lucidly discussed the American Succineas 

 in Vol. II of the Terrestrial Mollusks, pp. 03, 64. His exposition of the 

 history of .S. ovalis Say leaves little to be desired, and may well be 

 quoted here: 



"Succinea ovalis Say. — This species, diffused universally in the 

 middle and northern States of the Tnion, is that whicji is ilescribeti in 

 the works of Messrs. Gould, Mighels, Kirtland and Sager as Succinea 

 campestris Say. It varies nuich in size, and in the divergence of the 

 last whorl from the axis of the shell, and this last variation when 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



47 



strongly developetl constitutes Succinea ohliqua Say. Succinea 

 oralis of Messrs. Gould, Adams, Mighels antl Sager is not the ovalis 

 of Say, but a species which was unknown to him. As, however, the 

 ovalis of Gould is that now most commonly known imder the name 

 of Succinea ovalis, we propose to retain it, and to apply to Mr. Say's 

 species his second name, ohliqua." 



Fig. 1. — TaWk't bearing Succinea 

 ovalis, mounted and labelled by 

 Thomas Sav. Nat. size. 



J'ig. 2. — Say's tablet 

 obliqua. Nat. size. 



of Succinea 



The tablet of three specimens of S. ovalis labelled by Say is photo- 

 graphed, fig. 1. A series of modern specimens from Fairmount Park 

 is shown, fig. 3. These show a considerable amount of variation in 

 contour, some being as long as Say's types of S. obliqua, shown in fig. 2. 

 Philadelphian examples do not attain a large size, rarely exceeding IG 

 or l.S mm. in length. It is a region of crystalline metamorphic rock, 

 deficient in lime, where the land shells generally run imder the size 

 usual in New York or the West. The color is yellowish green, and the 

 shell ver\' thin. 



This type of shell is widely distributed, from Ontario to the mountains 

 of North Carolina and west to Minnesota and Mi.ssouri. 



'4-i V 



Fig. 3. — Succinea ovalis Say. Fairmount Park, Philadelphia. Nat. tatc. 



In the examples of *S'. ovalis taken at Chittcnango Falls the upper part 

 of the spire in living animals is whiti.sh with a papery api)earance, the 

 last whorl is {)ale bulT, becoming olivaceous and dusky over the lung. 

 This is in some exami)lc'S more or less obscurtnl by a gray network, 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



marked with some black blotches, but in others there is a pattern of 

 black streaks very much like that of S. ovalis chittenangensis. See PI. 

 VII, figs. 9, 10, 11, (Xo. 90.084, 90.085 A. N. S. P.) 



Succinea obliqua Say, 1824, also was described from Piiiladelphia, 

 two cotypes mounted on the cards used by Say, and inscriljed with his 

 autograph label , being still preserved. They are photographed in fig. 2. 

 These specimens have the spire longer than in ovalis, the suture more 

 oblique, but are otherwise very similar. Thev are greenish-yellow, 

 though not quite so green as oralis, and the abundant series of other 

 Philadclphian specimens before me leaves no doubt that they inter- 

 grade perfectly with Philadelphian ovalis. It will not, I think, be 

 possible to use the name obliqiia in a varietal or sul^specific sense, 

 though it might be used to indicate the elongate phase or form which 

 the species often assumes, if a name for that be desired.* It must be 

 understood, however, that the longer phase occure with the shorter 

 typical ovalis, and is fully connected therewith l^y intermediate 

 individuals in the same colonies. 



The synonyms of S. ovalis, and early references thereto discussed 

 above, here follow : 



Succinea ovalis Say, Journ. A. N. S. Phila. I, 1817, p. 15. F^russac, 

 Tabl. Syst., 1821, p. 26; Hist. Nat. Moll. Terr., PI. XIa, fig. 1 (not S. 

 ovalis Gould). 



Succinea obliqua Say, Major Long's Second E.xped., II, 1824, 260, PI. 

 15, fig. 7. DeKay, New York Fauna, Moll., p. 53, PI. 4, fig. 53. 

 Binney, Terrestr. Moll., II, p. 69. 



Succinea campcstris Gould, Invert, of Mass., 1841, p. 195, fig. 126. 

 DeKay, New York Fauna, Moll., p. 53, PI. 4, fig. 54 (not S. campcstris 

 Say). 



Succinea tnttmiana Lea, Proc. Am. Philos. Soc, II. 1S41, p. 32. 

 Saocinea ovalis optima n. Hiibsp. Fig. A. 



In many localities from New York to Minnesota and Iowa a form 

 much more robust than typical ovalis is found. The shell hius coai*sor 

 wrinkle sculi)ture, and yellow predominates rather than green. The 

 contour is about that of the larger examples of ovalis (such as tliose Say 

 calle<l S. obliqua), but varies to nearly or quit^ jus ])road as typical 

 ovalis. The suture is deep, and at the last whorl oblique. The 

 largest .specimens I have seen are from the type locality, Crugers Valley, 

 near Upper Red Hook, Duchess Co., N. Y., collected l)y Mr. W. S. 

 Teat<jr. Two of them mea.sure: 



* S. greeri Tryon haa been quoted as a synonym of S. oblupia, Ijut it is certainly 

 distinct from that species. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 49 



Length 26,{Uam. 16, length of aperture IS mm. 

 " 25 " 13.5 " " 17.5 " 



This size is not often reached. In the middle West a length of 20 mm. 

 is near the maximum, and the size of some individuals which seem to 

 be adult is not greater than the largest of the typical form of .S'. oralis. 



li;;. i. — Succiiuxi ocalis opliina. Xat. .sizf. 



This large race is what has commonly been callfHl S. ohliqua Say, but 

 the true ohliqua is merely the longer j)luiso of typical ovali.f, and the 

 name is not fairly applicable to the form above describeil. 1 have 

 not examintnl the living animal of this race. 



I picke<l up a single bleached sjx'cimen of .S. o. optima on the beach at 

 Galveston, Texas, in 1886. It had probably floated there, as I do not 

 think it exists in the .\ustroriparian zone. 

 Saceinea ovalis ohittenangoenslB ». Kubsp Pl. Vll, tlga. 1 to f. 



The shell is yellow or pinkish-yellow, much lengthened, with a longer 

 spire than any other race of S. ovalis; suture deep; whorls .'U, the last 

 rather flattened above, not so convex there as in S. ovalis or S. o. 

 optima. Aperture very oblique, relatively small. 



Length 22.5 diani. 11.5. l<'iigth of aperture 14 mm. (X<.. *M).()S7). 



" 23.3 " 11.3 " " 14 " (No. «K).0S1). 



• " 21 " 11.3 " " 13 " (Xo. «H),079). 



" I'.» 10.5 " 12 " (No. 90,08.3). 



Cotypes from a sloping weed-covere<l talus near the f(K>t of Chitten- 

 ango Falls. .Madison Co.. \. V.. No. 90.087, <H).0,S1 and •H).079. A. N. S. 

 1*., collect*"*! A\igust 27, 1905. by Messi-s. Hendei-s(»ii, Walker. Clapp and 

 Pilsbrj'. 



A very large series was taken. a>Mtiiat(Hl with a few S. oiyilis, fron» 

 which they are easily s(>parate<l b>' the charactei"s given above. I have 

 seen this form from nowhere else. The locality is on the (jnondaga 

 limestone (coniferojis). 

 4 




50 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



In the living animal the mantle as seen through the shell is pale yellow 

 with a slight olive tint, olive over the lung; the apex is more or less 

 niddy. Tliis ground is profusely striped and blotched with black on the 

 last H whorls, as shown in figs. 1 to 5. Over tiie kidney the black 

 blotches are interrupted and the ground tint is lighter, making a light 

 streak across the whorl, partially seen in figs. 2 and 5 at the right upper 

 portion of the last whorl, ^'ery exceptionally the l)lack Ijlotches are 

 almost absent, as in figs. 6, 7, 8. Fig. 8 represents the least marked 

 indivitlual seen, and jjrobably to be regartled as a case of partial 

 albinism. The lower edge (collar) of the mantle is gray peppered with 

 white dots. The foot is pale yellowish, back and flanks gray with 

 slate tesselation. tentacles slate. The posterior end of the foot is 

 somewhat blackish above. All figures of plate \'II were drawn from 

 living animals. In alcohol tlie black and gray pigment remains, but 



Fig. 5. — S. oi'nlis chittenangoensis. X 2. 



the yellow tint is fugitive. The pattern of pigmentation of the lung 

 has clearly })een influenced by a tendency of the markings to follow 

 veins; but in many specimens this tendency has been lost to a groat 

 extent. 



Summary. (1) Succinea oralis Say was l)a.sed upon I'hiladelpjiian 

 Hpecimens of the form subsefpiently described as .S'. lotlcniana i.ea. It 

 was well figure<l by I"'6russac from examples sent by Say, as early as 

 1822. The proportion of aperture to length given by Say applies to no 

 other Succima of the region al)out Philadelphia. (2) Siircitiea oralis 

 Gould, 1841, is a totally different species, which was described as S. 

 relufta by Ix!a in I8.'i7. The true identity of .S. oralis was recognized 

 by Dr. Hinney in 1H51. (•'}) Siiccinca obliqmi Say, 1H24, was based 

 upon elongate siKJcimens of .S. oralis Say, also from I'liiladelphia, It 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51 



is an absolute synonym of .S. oro/i's. (4) S. tottcniana Lea and Binney 

 is absolutely identical with the typical S. oralis Say. 



Explanation of Plate \'II. 



Figs. 1-8 — Siiccinea oralis chittenangoenms n. subsp. 1, 2, Xo. 90,081 A. N. S. P.; 



3, No. 90,079; 4, 5, Xo. 90,080; 6, Xo. 90,083; 7, 8, Xo. 90.082. 

 Figs. 9-11 — Succinea ovalis Say, Chittenango Falls. 9, 10, Xo. 90,085; 11. Xo. 



90,084. 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



NOTES ON SHAEK8. 



BY HKNHY W. FOAVLER. 



The species included in this paper are basal on material contained in 

 the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 

 unless otherwise stated. 



HEXANCHID^. 

 HtxanchuB ^isens (Gmelin). 



A dried skin without data. 

 Heptranchias cinereus (Gmelin). 



Head 65 to 6^ ; depth 10 to 10| ; snout 3 in head ; eye 4 to 4 J ; length of 

 mouth 2\ to 2J ; interorbital space 3 J to 3f ; front margin of first dorsal 

 2f to 2§; front margin of anal 3f to 4*; least depth of caudal peduncle 

 4; front margin of lower caudal lobe 2 to 2^; length 32^ to 35^ inches. 

 Two examples from Italy (C. L. Bonaparte, No. 245). 



Also 2 dried skias without data, the larger 44J inches long. 



HETERODONTIDiE. 

 HetorodontaB japonicas (Dutn(:Til). 



Head 5-^ ; depth 71; depth of head If in its length ; width of head 1^; 

 height of fii-st dorsal If; height of second dorsal 1^; height of anal If; 

 lower caudal lobe If; pectoral 4f ; tail 4 J in length of body; width of 

 pectoral U in its length. Color in alcohol deep brown with obscure 

 8cattere<l brown spots on trunk, which are however rather sparse. 

 Length 28 inches. No data. 



Also jaw of another, from Japan in 1891 (Frederick Stearns). 



SCYLIORHINID^. 

 Poroderma itellare (LinnifUM). 



Head 72 to SJ; depth 8f to 14; snout 2^ to 2J in head; eye 3f to 4J; 

 width of mouth 2 to 2§; interorbital space 2 J to 2J; first dorsal IJ to 

 IJ; second dorsal IJ to 2i; anal If to 2}; cauflal from origin of lower 

 loljc 35 to 4 J in n^t of ImkIv ; length (5 to IS inches. Eleven e.\ani|)lc'<. 

 Italy (Bonaparte). Also 2 dried skins, Nos. ^ and ,j. , with same 

 data. 



Two other dried .skins without data. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53 



This genus must now be known by the above name, as Dr. Gill's 

 specification of Catuhis steUaris Smith as the type of Catulus^ is not 

 admissible. Under Catulus three species are included b}"" Smith, viz.: 

 Squalus canicula Linn., Scyl. marmoratum Bennett, and C. edwardii 

 Smith. The firet of these is here consideretl as the type, thus allowing 

 it to fall a synomon of Scyliorhinus Blainville. The type of Poro- 

 derma Smith may be considered its first species, Squalus africanum 

 Gmelin. 

 Oalens melaitomuB Rafinesque. 



Head Q^r; to 7; depth 10 to 14 J; snout 2 to 2^ in head ; eye 3 J to 4^; 

 width of mouth ly"(7 to 2^; interorbital space 2 to 2j; first dorsal If to 

 2i; second dorsal IJ to 2f ; base of anal 1 to If ; caudal from origin of 

 lower lobe 2\ to 3f in rest of body; length 7 to 18|^ inches. Ten 

 examples. Italy (Bonaparte, Xo. 253). 



Also 3 dried skins without data. 



The above generic name may be adopted for this genus, as Rafinesque 

 includes but two species. They are G. melastomus and Squalus uynto, 

 of which the first may be considered the type. If his intention was to 

 have made S. galeus Linntcus his type he certainly has missed the 

 opportunity, as that species is not even mentioned, and the inference 

 may be only sumiLsed by reference to his Ind. It. Sicil., 1810. 

 Pristiurus Bonaparte is thus supersetled by Galeus Rafinesque. 



HEMISCYLLIID^. 

 Chilosoyllium indicum (Ginclm). 



Tlucc cxaiuplcs from Padang (C. H. Harri.son, Jr., and H. M. Hiller), 

 Sumatra. Color when fresii in arrack more or less uniform dull brown, 

 lower surface of heatl, abdomen, and ba.ses of pectorals and ventrals 

 dirty cream-white. Tiie largest 21 inches long. The youngest with 

 very distinct markings. One specimen now in Stanford University. 



Oreotolobns japonious (UeKan). 



One example without data. The Japane.se material calle<l 0. 

 harbatus by Jordan and Fowler' is this species. 



OINOLYMOSTOMIDuE. 

 Oinglymoitoma oirratnm (Gmelin). 



One from St. .Martin's (R. K. Van Rijgersma). \V. 1. Three other 

 dried skins, and one alcoholic, may have the same il:it:i. Thcv arc .nil 



' Ann. r.yc. \nt. II Ut. N. Y., 1801, p. 41. 



' Proc. V. a. \at. .\fuji., ,\XVI. I'M).}, p. (Wm. 




54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



uniformly brown and \\'ithout spots. The largest is but a little over 2 

 feet in length. The St. Martin's example shows: Head 5^; width of 

 head about 1 in its length; snout 1|; eye S; width of mouth about 3; 

 interorbital space 1§; buccal cirrus 6; front margin of first dorsal about 

 li; of second dorsal If; of anal If; pectoral 1^; ventral If ; least depth 

 of caudal peduncle 4f ; length about 23 inches. 



Two other examples, probably the Squalus -punctatus Schneider, one 

 evidently from St. Martin's (Rijgersma), W. I., and the other from 

 Tortugas (James Roosevelt), Fla. Both are rather spai-sely spotted 

 with deep brown. Head 5*; depth 7* to 8; snout 1^ to 2 in head; 

 width of mouth 2^ to 3^; interorbital space If to If; front margin 

 of first dorsal If to If; of second doreal If to 1|; of anal 2; least 

 depth of caudal peduncle 44 to 5; pectoral 1^ to 1^; ventral If to 2; 

 length 12^ to 14f inches. 



In the preliminaiy account of this genus by Midler anil Henle' no 

 species is mentioned, though Drs. Jordan anil Gilbert have designated 

 Squalus cirratus GmeUn^ as its type. Miiller and Henle's next account 

 includes species.^ Dr. Gill designates '' Type Ginglymostoma con- 

 color,'" which ma}- be assumed to be congeneric with the species of the 

 present group, though somewhat confusing as Nebrius Riippell (its 

 type N. concolor Riippell) was admitted to Ginglymostoma by Dr. Gill 

 himself. 



CAROHARIID^. 

 Carcharias littoralis (Mitchill). 



Head 5; depth 8^; length of fii-st doi-sal 2in head; of second doi-sal 

 2^ ; of anal 2f ; of lower caudal lobe 2^ ; pectoral 1 f ; tail 12^ in length of 

 bfKJy; entire length 44* inches, Nantucket (B. Sharp), Mass. 



Hea^l of a large example from Sea Isle City (W. J. Fox), and jaws 

 from Townsend's Inlet (J. D. Casey), X. J., latter wrongly confused 

 by me with Lamna cornubica.' Also 3 other paiix (^f jaws without 

 data. 



ALOPIID^. 



Alopiad vulpei (limelin). 



Head 85; depth 8f; width of head Ijj in il.'^ length; depth of head l{; 

 Hnout about 3J;cye al)out G; width of mouth 3; interorbital space 2f ; 



• Wumn. Arch., 18,37, p. 390. 



« Bull. V. S. \til. s\fiiH.. .No. 10, 1.SS2, p. IH. 



• Si/hI. Ikwh. I'lnq., IS.HH. p. Xi. 



• Ann. Lye. Sat. UiM. S. Y ., ISOI, p. 40. 

 ' Rep. S. J. Slate Mum., 1905, p. 50. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 55 



front margin of first dorsal If; least depth of caudal peduncle 2f ; 

 ventral ly\; about 38 series of teeth in upper jaw and 28 in lower; 

 pectoral reaching f to ventral, and its greatest width 2 in its length. 

 Color in alcohol dull gray-brown, more or less uniform, lower surface 

 of trunk and head, also of pectoral and ventral, a little paler. Dorsals 

 and caudal like back. Iris pale slaty-gray. Length 49 inches. New- 

 port, R. I. J. C. Dunn. 



Also a large dried skin (Bonaparte ^), probably from Italy? 



LAMNIDJE. 



iBurus oxjrrinchus Rafinesque. 



Jaws of a large example, evidently this species, without data. 

 Possibly from Italy? 



Lamna oornubioa (Cmelin). 



Heatl alM)ut 5 ; depth about 6J ; snout about 2'( in head ; eye 7| ; width 

 of head about 3 ; gape of mouth 2^ ; interorbital space 3| ; height of 

 first dorsal 2*; length of second dorsal 4f ; of anal 4^; least depth of 

 caudal pCMJunclo 9; greatest width of caudal petluncle 4|; front margin 

 of lower caudal lobe 1^; pectoral l\; ventral 3. Color in alcohol dull 

 gray-brown on upper surface of body, and pale or whitish below, line 

 of demarcation along side of caudal peduncle sharjjly defined. Doi-sal 

 and upper surface of caudal like back, lower pale like belly, though with 

 more or less grayish. Upper surface of pectoral like back, lower paler 

 like belly. Wutral and anal ])ale, slightly with grayisli. Iris pale 

 olive-gray, eyeball wiiitish. Teeth whitisii. Length '27\ inches. 

 Italy (lionaparte). 



OETORHINID^. 

 Cetorhinai maximus Xiunncr). 



Although there is no example in the collection, a largedried mounted 

 skin, said to have l)een taken in Monterey Hay, Cal., was exhibited in 

 l'hiliuleli)liia several years ago, and was examiiutl by Mr. Witmer 

 Stone and myself. 



QALEORHINID^. 



Cynaii canit (Miichill). 



-Nantucket (Sharp), Mass.; Newport (J. F<eidy atid S. I'owel). H. I.; 

 Sea Isle City (Fox), .Atlantic City (C. W. Huvinger. (J. W. Tryon, Jr.), 

 and (Ireat Egg Harbor Hay (Ix'idy), X. J.; K. Coa-st T. S. (Smiths. 

 Inst.); Italy (Bonaparte). 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Mustelns mustelns (Linn»u!<). 



(M. eqtieslris Bonaparte, Icon. Faun. Ita)., Pesc. Ill, pt. 2, vii, 1834, descr., 

 PI., tig. 2, mari d'ltalia.) 



Head 6A; depth about 9; witlth of heatl 1^ in its length; depth of 

 head at posterior margin of eye 2^; snout measured to eye 2§; eye 5f ; 

 width of mouth 2f ; intcrorbital space 2f; width of internasal space 

 lj\: front margin of fii^st dorsal 1^; of second doi^sal I},; of anal 22^; 

 least depth of caudal peduncle 6f ; front margin of lower caudal lobe 

 -tV ; ^U'PP^' "largin of pectoral 1 y"^ ; front margin of ventral 2. 



Body very elongate, depressed in front, sides well compressed, and 

 tapering posteriorly into a long slender caudal, greatest depth about 

 origin of firet dorsal. Edges of body rather slight!}' convex or de- 

 pressed, a veiy obsolete or slight median ridge down back most pro- 

 nounced on u])per surface of caudal peduncle, and down postventral 

 and postanal regions a well-developed deep median groove. Caudal 

 peduncle slender, compressed, and its least depth about Ij in its 

 length. 



Head well tlepressed, profiles tapering similarly, and as viewed above 

 rather elongate with somewhat attenuately convergent margins though 

 tip rounded. Snout broadly depressed, edge rather trenchant, and 

 its length but a trifle less than its width. Eye elongate, large, laterally 

 superior, and place<l about midway in length of head. Mouth rather 

 broad, symphysis of mandible slightly in front of anterior margin of 

 eye, and rami would nearly form a right angle, i jps thin and hardly 

 develo])e«l. At angle of mouth externally a rather long fleshy fold 

 forming a well-developetl flap projecting posteriorly, and though 

 groove distinct posteriorly around it, it extends but very little along 

 outer margin anteriorly. About 55 series of blunt tul)(>rcles or pave- 

 ment-like teeth in each jaw. Huccal folds rather narrow. Tongue 

 large, broad, its surface minutely as|)erous, and edges all free and sharp. 

 Nostrils large, well separated on each side of snout below, near last 

 third in length of latter measured to eye, and each with a well-developed 

 flaj). Interorbital space broad, well depr&ssed. and but very slightly 

 convex. 



Gill-openings 5, la.st 2 oxer base of pectoral, and third ileei)est or 

 about 2 in interorbital sj)ace. Spiracle small, distincl. and j)laced 

 behind eye a space (-(jual to about J its horizontal diameter. 



B(Kly covered everywhere witli minute siiagreen denticles of uniform 

 size. 



Origin of first dorsal much closer to origin of pectoral than that of 

 ventral or a little nearer tip of snout than origin of second dorsal, its 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57 



apex forming nearly ()\er it.s posterior basal margin, and a long slender 

 point projecting behind equal in length to width of mouth. Origin of 

 second doi-sal a Uttle nearer posterior basal margin of first doreal than 

 origin of upper lobe of caudal, base of fin like that of first dorsal well 

 elevated and fleshy, and fin otherwise similar with jjosterior jwint 

 about equal to eye horizontally. Caudal long and slender, origin of 

 upper lobe begins a little behind that of lower, and its distal expansion 

 about 3^ in its own length. Lower caudal lobe a little elevated below, 

 and length of its base about H in entire length of upper. Anal inserted 

 a little behind middle of base of second dorsal, or a little nearer origin 

 of lower caudal lobe than tip of depressed ventral, and similar to second 

 dorsal, only smaller, posterior point equal to horizontal eyenliameter. 

 Pectoral large, upper margin rather evenly convex, reaching f to origin 

 of ventral, and its posterior margin slightly concave. Ventral inserted 

 about midway between origin of ventral and that of anal, rather 

 broad, and its lower margin a little concave. Clasper small, about 

 half length of posterior point. 



C(jlor in alcohol dull uniform gray-brown above, merging into grayish- 

 white tint uniformly over lower surface of body. Upper fins like back 

 or with grayish, both pectoral and ventral ]xdor below. Iris pale 

 bra.s.sy and pupil slaty. 



Length about 26 inches. 



No. 617, A. N. 8. P., cotype of M. equestris Bonaparte. Italy 

 (Bonaparte. No. 248). From Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



Also No.''. 618 to 620, with same data. Tiiey show: Head 5? to 6^; 

 depth 8A to 10^ ; width of heaxl 1 ^ to 1 J in it.s length ; snout 2 to 2 J ; eye 

 4J to 6^; width of mouth 'SI to .'U; interorbital space 2^ to 2^; front 

 e<lge of first doi-sal 1^ to 1§; front edge of anal 1? to 2J; pectoral 1 to 

 1^; length 10* to 21| inches. The smallest example is uniform on the 

 back, like the larger ones, and is without any spots or markings. My 

 confusion of these examples with Galeorhinus galcus'* was due to the 

 original labels being evidently wrongly plactnl. I have verified this 

 by an examination of Bonaparte's original catalogue, whore they are 

 also wrongly cntertHJ in the latter's own handwriting. 



Maitelus mento Co|)e. Fin. I. 



(.IVtc. .\m. Pliil(>sS)c. riiila., X\II, ls77. p. »7, I'aiifici )ifan at l'<c!Lsmayu, 

 Peru.) 



Head about 5; depth 7ij ; width of hea<l IJ in its lengtii; snout 2^; 

 eye 5i; width of mouth 3§; interorbital space 2||; front m.-iruin of 



• Proc. Acad. Xat.Sci. PhiUi., VM)\ . p itaj, I'l. \.\, fig. 4 (aiiatoiiiy). 




58 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



first dorsal ly^; front niar«;in of second dorsal 23; front margin of 

 anal about 3; front margin of lower caudal lobe 2^; least depth of 

 caudal peduncle 6\; pectoral 14; ventral 2^. Body rather well com- 

 pressed, back elevated, edges rather roimded or convex, a very slight 

 median keel down back and a slight me<lian depression down post- 

 ventral and postanal regions. Caudal peduncle slender, well com- 

 pressed, and its least depth about f its length. Head broad, depressed, 

 profiles similar, and when viewe<l above rather narrowly convergent 



f^T;'*?*^'' 



Fig. 1. — M uMelua mento Co\>e . (Type.) 



with rounded tip. Edges of snout rather trenchant, and its length 

 equal to its greatest width. Eye elongate, and its center a trifle 

 posterior in length of head. Mouth moderately broad, symphysis 

 falling but a trifle before front of eye, and rami would form a right 

 angle. J>if)s thin and little free. At each corner of mouth a j)ointe<l 

 flap, free behind and with a rather long outer fold. Teeth pavement- 

 like, in about 50 series. r|)[)(r buccal fold papillose, with a slightly 

 raggfil margin, not entire jis stated previously, and narrow. Lf)wer 

 buccal fold entire. Tongue rather point(H|, its upper surface very 

 finely asperous, an<l margins free. .Nostrils large, inferior, well 

 8eparate<l, about la^t tliird in sn«»ut measured to eye. and each 

 with a welI-<levelope<l flaj). Interorbital space conv(«x. Body 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59 



even-Avhcre minutely roughened. Origin of first dorsal nearly 

 midway between tip of snout and origin of second dorsal. 

 apex of fin falling about midway in its length, and posterior pointed 

 flap equals eye horizontally. Origin of second dorsal a little nearer 

 that of first dorsal than last caudal vertebra. Anal with its apex 

 about opposite its pasterior basal margin. Upper lobe of caudal 

 begias a little after that of lower, ami its distal expansion about 2i 

 in its length. Lower caudal lobe a little elevated in front, and its 

 height about 3f in its length. Pectoral reaches f to ventral. \'entral 

 inserted a trifle nearer origin of pectoral than posterior ba«!al margin of 

 anal, and reaching a trifle more than half-way to anal. Color in 

 alcohol with under surfaces of pectorals and ventrals grayish, other- 

 wise fins of more or less uniform tint of back. Iris pale yellowish- 

 brown, pupil dusky. Length \2\ inches. Xo. 21,104, A. X. S. P.. 

 type of M. merUo Cope. Pacific Ocean at Pecasmayo, Peru (J. Orton). 

 Coll. of 1876-77. From Cope. 



Triakis felis (Ayres). 



Santa Barbara (U. S. F. C), Cal. 



I adopt Muslelus felis Ayres for this species, as his name has evident 

 priority. His paj)ei*" was read Dccenil)or 4, 1854, which is in the 

 signature dated December 25. This was received by the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia on February 6, 1855." T. semi- 

 jasciatufi Oirard occurs in Xo. ^^ of the same volume,'" which was else- 

 where" not acknowle<lgetl as having been received until February 20. 

 1855. and therefore this date may be accepted for its publication. 



GaleorhinuB galeas (Linnsux). 



Head 5^; depth about 8^; snout about 2 J in hea<l; eye 5; length of 

 mandible ."J; width of mouth 2^; tip of snout to mandible 21; inter- 

 orl)ital space 2^; front margin of first dorsal 1^^; of .second dorsal ^i : 

 of anal 4§; leiist depth of caudal peduncle ai)out 5; pectoral Ij ; ventral 

 3!i; length 173 inches. Italy (Bonaparte. Xo. 254). The other three 

 examples are all smaller, the smallest \) inches long and showing the 

 attachment of the placenta still in good preservation. Tlx'se were 

 confuse<l as (Idli us mustrlus by me, jis alread)' explainetl. 



Also a drie<l skin, without data. 44 inches long. 



• Id I'rnr. ('<il. Anul. ,Sri., I. 



'" S-*- Pritr. Arail. \til. Sri. I'hiln., \'II, p. xxii, in (ionntinnn to tlir litinirv. 



'• .\rw York Lye. .Sal. IliM. 




00 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Oaleorhinus zyopteras Jordan and Gilbert. 



(.Hull. r. S. Nat. Mils'.. XM. 1SS3. p. 871, cAndently based on G. galeus 

 Jonian and CJilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Ill, ISSO, p. 42, 8an Pedro, 

 Califoniia; Jordan and Gilbert, I.e., p. 458, San Francisco, Cal.) 



Heail Of ; deptli 11?; width of head If in its length ; depth of head at 

 posterior margin of eye about 2|; snout 2^; eye 4i; witlth of mouth at 

 corners 2J ; interorbital space 2i ; front margin of first dorsal 2 ; of second 

 dorsal about 2; of lower caudal lobe If ; least depth of caudal peduncle 

 5; upper margin of pectoral IJ; front margin of ventral about 5. 



Body elongate, slender, depressed anteriorly and tapering back 

 from head. Down middle of back, also middle of postventral and 

 postanal regions, a longitudinal groove. Caudal peduncle slender, 

 its least depth about 2^ in its length. 



Head broadly depresseil, about equally so above and below, and as 

 viewed from above profile rather elongately convergent with rounded 

 tip. Snout well depressed, its edge but slightly trenchant, and space 

 between its own tip and front of mouth equal to width of latter. Eye 

 large, elongate, lateral and its center falling a trifle posterior in length 

 of head. Nictitating membrane large, well developed, and with a deep 

 pocket between itself and eye. Rami of mandible would nearly form 

 a right angle, though symphysis not quite extended forward till opposite 

 front rim of eye. Teeth pointed, mostly tricuspid^ and directed to- 

 wards side of mouth, with outer cusp of each of lateral teeth best 

 developetl. About 44? series of teeth in upper jaw. Buccal folds 

 rather well developed and papillose. Tongue large, Inroad, flattened, 

 rounde<l in front, and its edge free. Nostrils rather large, well separ- 

 ated or internasal space about half width of mouth, each witii a small 

 flesh}' point, and placed about last ^ in snout measured to front of eye. 

 Interorbital sj^ace broad, a little convex, and depressed medianly. 



Gill-oj)enings 5, last 2 over base of pectoral, and third and fourth 

 largest or about If in eye horizontally. 



B'MJy covered everywhere with simple shagreen points of moderately 

 small and uniform size. 



Origin of first dorsal a little nearer that of second than tip of snout, 

 fonning a rather rounde<l lobe with its apex just before j)osterior basal 

 margin of fin, and point of latter ecjuals eye horizontally. (Origin of 

 second dorsal nearer that of first than end of last caudal vertebra by a 

 space efjual to width between outer edges of nostrils, apex of fin form- 

 ing about over middle of its IcMigth, and its posterior j)oint about 1^ 

 in eye horizontally. Origin of anal a trifle aft<»r that of second dorsal, 

 its apex forming about first third in its length and its posterior j)oint 

 IJ in eve li<)riz<jntally. Origin of lower caiidMl Inln- m little in advance 




1908.] NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



of that of upper, and height of fin at this point about 2^ in length of its 

 base. Upper caudal lobe broad, its expansion at end nearly equal to 

 width of mouth or about 3^ in its length. Pectoral broad, larger than 

 first dorsal, and reaching * to ventral, with posterior margin a little 

 incised, ^'entral inserted a little nearer origin of fii-st doi^sal than that 

 of anal, and reaching ' to origin of latter. Cla.'^per equals posterior 

 anal point. 



Color in alcohol deep gray-brown on Ijack, becoming paler gray on 

 sides, and lower surface whitish. Upper surface of snout pale brown- 

 ish. Teeth all whitish. Iris livid grayish and pupil slaty. Nictitat- 

 ing membrane pale like side of head. Doi-sals pale brownish, upper or 

 outer portion of lobe dusky to blackish and posterior point becoming 

 very pale to whitish. Caudal pale brownish, end of upper lobe and 

 notch behind lower dusky to blackish, fin othenvise more or less pale. 

 Pectoral dusky or blackish above, pale to grayish below, ^'cntral and 

 anal whitish like lower surface of body. 



Length 123 inches. 



No. 582, A. N. S. P., cotype of G. zyopterus Jonlan and Gilbert. San 

 Franciscf), California (U. S. F. C. No. 27,190). 



Oaleooerdo tigrinaa .Miiller and Henle. 



Head 6J; depth llf; width of head 1| in its length ; snout .S; width of 

 mouth 2fV); space between tip of snout and front of mouth 4; inter- 

 orbital space 1§; pectoral 1 J; base of ventral 4^ ; caudal nearly 2 in rest 

 of body. Body broad, depressed, and trunk rather slender posteriorly. 

 Caudal peduncle broad, and side from below second doi"sal bluntly 

 keeled till opposite middle of lower elongate caudal lol)e. llea<l 

 large, very broad, depres.sed. Snout broad, rounded. licngth of pre- 

 oral region about § width of mouth. Eye anteriorly lateral, with 

 nictitating membrane. Mcnith large, beginning well before eye, and 

 gape extends one diameter behind latter. Corner of mouth with long 

 outer fold. Teeth abotit |g, broad, compresse<l, directecl laterally, 

 finely serrated along margins, and with five small cusps externally. 

 Tongue broad, not free. Lips rather thin. Nostrils lateral, with 

 small flaps, and nearer front e<lge of snout than front of mouth. Intor- 

 orbital space convex. Anterior gill-o|)enings large, thinl largest, and 

 last two over l)ase of pectoral. Peritoneum silvery. Shagreen very fine. 

 First dorsal insert*^! ojjposite posterior bju'^al (nlgc of j)octoral. with 

 sharp point behind, and height of fin a little le.s.s than base. SccoimI 

 dorsal in.serte<l about midway between caudal pits and origin of ventral. 

 A narrow me<lian low keel al«)ng back between dorsals. .Vnal small, 

 inserted bdirA fir~t lliini of Ii.'i^c (if sccdiid dor-aL its niaiLMii <lfciilv 




62 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



concave, and with a sharp point posteriorly. Lower caudal lobe about 

 2* in upper. Caudal notch near tip. Pectoral falcate, margin con- 

 cave and reaching posteriorly below posterior base of dorsal. Ventral 

 small, broad, obtuse, and inserted nearly midway lietween posterior 

 basal etige of first doi"sal and origin of second dorsal. Color when fresh 

 in arrack slaty-gray, paler below. Upper surface of body and pectoral, 

 also dorsal and caudal, variegated with deep leaden-gray blotches, 

 and many of those on side of trunk more or less elongate and vertical. 

 Length 39^ inches. Padang, Sumatra (Harrison and Hiller). 



Ver}' large jaws from Guaymas, Mexico; also a jjair from Beesley's 

 Point. N. J. (S. .\shmead); a pair from between Turk's Island and 

 Barbadoes (Dr. W. H. Freeman). 



Prionace glauoa (Linna>us). 



Head 5; tlepth about 10^; width of head about 2 in its length; snout 

 2^ ; eye about 7^ ; width of mouth about 3J ; interorbital space 2f ; front 

 margin of first dorsal 2i ; front margin of seconrl dorsal 4f ; front margin 

 of anal about 4; least depth of caudal peduncle about 7^; pectoral If; 

 ventral 3|. Teeth with entire edges, and each lateral tooth of upper 

 jaw followed by about four cusps and in lower by one or two. Median 

 teeth in each jaw erect, smaller and with a single slender point. Color in 

 alcohol deep chocolate-brown on back and upper surface, and lower 

 surface jiale creamy-white. Dorsals and caudal, except basally at 

 lower lobe, which Is whitish, dark like back. Upper surface of pectoral 

 and ventral dark like back, though latter paler, and lower surfaces 

 grayish to whitish like belly. Entire lower surface of head whitish like 

 belly. Iris grayish-slaty, pupil pale. Length 23 inches. Italy 

 (Bonaparte, No. 250). 



Another dried skin, without data, is 48 inches long. 



Ealamia milberti (Moller an<l Heiile). 



( )n(' from (Ireut l>gg Harlxtr Bay (Dr. J. Leidy). 



The name Carcharias Rafinesque cannot be appliefl to this genus, as 

 the only species mentioned f(jr it, and therefore its type, is tdurus, a 

 sand shark identical with Agassiz's genus Odontdspis. Carcharhinus 

 Blainville" is next in order. It is based on commersonii, lamia, Hindus, 

 uHtus, hfterodon, verus, broussonctii, (jlaucus, avrulcnft, ryinjalops, helero- 

 branchialis, cornubicus, 7m>ncnsis'!, vulpes. Drs. Jordan and (lili)ert 

 restrict the first species {commersonii) as its type, but all the evidence 

 shows it to be a nomen nudum, and their suggestion that it is based on 

 Lac6[M>de'8 figure of Lc SquaU' Rcquin^' seems only assuin])tion when 



'» RuU. Roc. Philtmath., P&nn, 1816, p. 121. 



" Ifixt. \at. PoiMH., I, 17i«>, pp. \M, \m, I'l. S, liK. 1. 




1908] 



NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



63 



jud^eil from Blainville's work alone. If the ne.xt of Blainville's specific 

 names are considered, lamia is found fii"st proj)osed as Carcharias laviia 

 by Rafinesqiie," without description or diagnosis, and simply as " (Squa- 

 lus carcharias Linnaeus). Carcaria lamia. Pesce Caine, Imbestinu, 

 6 Lamia." Thus it would be typified by S. carcharias Linnieus. which 

 would upset Carcharodon of Smith, in which case I shall consider tlie 

 Squalus viilpes Gmelin the type of Carcharhinus Blainville. The next 

 generic name available is Eulauda Gill, which had best be adopted. 



Fig. 2. — Eulamin odonlaxpiit Prowler. (Tj-pe.) 



Eulamia odontaspis "p. nov. Vig- '^i. 



Head 5i ; depth S^ ; width of head about IJj in its length; depth of 

 head at first gill-opening Ij ; snout 25 ; width of mouth 2i: interorbital 

 space 2; front tnlge of first dorsal Ij; of second dorsal 2; of anal 2]^ ; 

 of lower caudal lobe 1 ij ; lea.st depth of caudal pe«hui<*le about 5; pectoral 

 1§; ventral 2^ 



Htnly depressed anteriorly, api)arently rather robust, a slight median 



'*lnd. n.Sinl., ISIO, p. 44. 




fi4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



depression down back and another down postventral and postanal 

 regions, greatest depth about origin of dorsal. Caudal peduncle com- 

 pressetl, and its least depth about It in its length. 



Head rather well depressed, profiles similar apparently. Snout well 

 depressed, rather short, when viewed above broadly convex, and its 

 length to front of mouth about f its width at that point. Ej'e small, 

 elongately ellipsoid, and its center about first f in head. Nictitating 

 membrane rather broad. In profile end of mandible a little before front 

 rim of eye, as seen from below profile of symphysis rather broadly convex 

 in front, and its length ^ its width. No grooves at cornel's of mouth. 

 Teeth about f#7, similar in both jaws, without basal cusps, edges 

 entire, slender, compressed, of rather uniform size and sharply pointed. 

 Nostrils large, lateral, below on snout near last third of its length. 

 Interorbital space broadly convex. 



Gill-openings 5, second and third deepest or about 5 in head, and last 

 two over base of pectoral. No spiracle. 



Body covered with very fine shagreen, scarcely rough to touch. 



Origin of first dorsal about mitlway between tip of snout and tip of 

 posterior depressed point of second dorsal, and posterior point 2} in 

 length of fin. Origin of second dorsal about an eye-diameter nearer 

 that of upper caudal lobe than posterior basal margin of first dorsal, 

 and posterior point of fin 2 J in its front margin. Caudal rather small, 

 upper lobe begins a trifle behind lower, antl its length about 3f in rest 

 of body. A pit on caudal peduncle, botii above and below, at origins 

 of caudal lobes. Anal begins verj' slightly behind origin of second 

 <lorsal, and fin reaching 1 \ to origin of lower cau(hd lobe, tip of posterior 

 process not extending back beyond that of end of fin in front. Pectoral 

 Ijroad, inserted rather low, and when depressed reaching about opposite 

 origin of first dorsal, its greatest width 1§ in its length, ^'entral 

 broml, its origin slightly behind tip of depressed doi-sal, and depressed 

 fin reaching 1 J to anal. Claspers small. 



Color of dried skin dull brown generally, lower surface scarcely paler. 

 Tins all unicolor. 



Length about 20J inches. 



Type x\o. 34,634, A. N. S. V. No data. l)ut i)n)l)al)ly from the 

 Indian Ocean? 



This interesting specimen is probably ith'ulical with Day's figure of 

 ('arc/iarias ellinti}^ His description, however, difT<'i> in the outer 

 labial groove, serrated teeth with basal cusps, fii-st doi-sal beginning 



'» FijtheMoJ hului, IV. IKSO, p. TIC. I'l IS<.». fijr. 2. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 65 



behind base of pectoral with its base being nearer latter than ventral, 

 inner margin of pectoral ^ of its outer and fin reaching below end of 

 base of dorsal, anal below last f of second dorsal, and caudal 3J in 

 total. His figure of a skin, 6 feet long, differs in some minor details 

 from my example, which howeyer may be due to age. 



(•0(5(>, tooth, 'aa-i^, scalc; hence OdotUaspis, an old generic name 

 applied to the sand sharks, and here used with reference to the super- 

 ficial resemblance of this species.) 



Eulamia longimanns (Poey). 



Head al)out 6f; depth 8^; width of head If; snout 2f in head; width 

 of mouth 2^; interorbital space Ij^; heiglit of firet dorsal 2^; of second 

 dorsal 7|; least depth of caudal peduncle 4; lower caudal lobe 2^; 

 pectoral 1^; ventral 2f ; upper caudal lobe 3f. Teeth all finely ser- 

 rated and upper but little notched on outer margins. Doi-sal inserted 

 just after base of pectoral, ^^'idth of pectoral 2 in its length. Length 

 39 inches. Dried skin without data. 



Jaws of large example from West Palm Beach (G. B. Wood), Fla., in 

 1907. Another pair of jaws from the Gulf of Florida (Dr. G. Watson) 

 is probably this species. 



Eulamia menisorrah (Miiller and Henle). 



llfud (ij;<l('i)tii S}; width of head Ij in its length; snout 2}; width of 

 mouth 2§; tip of snout to mandible 3; interorbital space 2; height of 

 first doi-sal l^; pectoral 1 ; leugtli of ventral to posterior tip l{\; least 

 <lepth of caudal peduncle 4^; caudal 3 in rest of bod}'. Teeth without 

 serrations, each \\'ith several small cusps. Length 25 J inches. Padang 

 (Harrison and Hillcr), Sumatra. 



Also a very young pxaini)le with same data. Edge of first dorsal 

 very narrowly marginc^d with black, also ends of second dorsal and 

 caudal. 

 Ealamia oxyrhynohus (MuUer imil Ilcnlc). 



Head about 4f ; depth 11}; width of its head 2j in its length; snout 

 about 2jV; width of mouth 2^; interorbital space 3^; front margin of 

 first dorsal 2J; of second doi'sal 4; of anal about 4; of lower caudal lobe 

 2A > pectoral 1 § ; length of ventral 3§ ; least ilepth of caudal petluncle 3 J 

 in snout; eye 8; upj)er caudal lobe ecjiials head; length 17^ inches. 

 Dried skin without data, though probabU' from Surinam? (Hering?). 



It differs a little from Miiller and Henle's figure, most likely in respect 



to age, in having insertion of first dorsal a little more posterior or 



opposite posterior l:)a.sal edge of pect<jral, depre.s.se<l j)ectoral not 



reaching beyond posterior bitsal margin of first dorsal, dcprus-sed first 



5 




66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



dorsal reaching 1$ to ventral, origin of anal slightly before that of 

 second dorsal, and origin of ventral nearly midway between posterior 

 basal margin of first dorsal and origin of anal. 



Scoliodon latioaudus (Miiller and Henle). 



A small example, 7^ inches long. Straits of Malacca. It agrees 

 largely with Miiller and Henle's figure. 

 Sooliodon terrae-novse (Richardson). 



Baj-port (Cope), Fla. 



Two dried skins, larger 38 inches long, are evidently this species; no 

 data. 



SPHYRNID^. 

 Sphyrns tibaro (Linnteus). 



Newport (Powel) R. I.; St. Augustine (W. Blanding), Fla., in May, 

 1832. 



Sphyrna tudes (Valenciennes). 



Head 4f ; depth 7; length of disk, along its posterior margin, | its 

 width transversely at second undulation; width of head just after 

 hammer 2y\ in head; width of mouth about 3^; third gill-opening 

 5 J ; front margin of first dorsal 1^; length of second dorsal 2j; of anal 2; 

 least depth of caudal peduncle 4; pectoral 1^; ventral 2f. Teeth in 

 about 26 series in mandible. Color in alcohol plain pale brown, a 

 little darker on upper surface of body and paler or whitish on lower. 

 Fins all grayish-brown. Iris slaty. Length 8 inches. Surinam 

 (Hering). 



Sphyrna zygaena (Linnteus). 



Nantucket (Sharp), Ma.ss.; Sea Isle City (W. J. Fo.\), Holly Beach 

 (Miss Edith Ives) and Gra.ssy Sound (Fowler), N, J. ; Surinam (Hering) ; 

 Panama (W. S. W. Ruschenberger) ; Italy (Bonaparte, 251); Padang 

 (Harrison and Hiller), Sumatra. Also 4 dried skins without data. 



Sphyrna bloohii (Cuvier). 



Head 6J; depth about 93?; least width of head behind hammer 1^ 

 in its length ; greatest wiflth of iiammer 2J in its Irngth, measured along 

 its inner margin; lea.st width of hammer 4; space between tip of snout 

 medianly and margin of upper jaw about 3 in head ; width of mouth 2; 

 length of third gill-opening about 4 ; base of first (loi*sal 1 J ; entire length 

 of second dorsal about 1 J; ba.sc of anal about 2^; Ivn^t depth of caudal 

 peduncle 3i; front margin of lower caudal lobe IJ; length of pectoral 1 ; 

 base of ventral 22 ; cla.'^pcr 1 ;{. 



Body long, slender, apparently little compressed, but rather rounded 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 67 



or robust, greatest depth about origin of dorsal, and edges of body 

 depressed or flattenetl. No ver\' evident pits at origins of caudal lobes. 

 Caudal peduncle rather robust, scarcely compressal, and its least 

 depth ly in its length. 



Head moderately large, wdl depressed both above and below and 

 with evenly convex surfaces. Snout rather broadly depressed and 

 moderately short, as viewed from above front margin undulate with a 

 median emargination where tip would form. Each side of head produced 

 laterally into a very narrow long depressed hammer-like process with its 

 front margin much thicker than posterior, also former as viewed above 

 a little undulate in profile while posterior is nearly straight. Along 

 anterior margin of each hammer a rather deep groove, extending from 

 nostril half-way to median point of snout and distally to end of hammer. 

 Eye at anterior external lateral extremity of hammer, elongate, rather 

 small, and its horizontal diameter about 4^ in distal expansion of 

 hammer. Nictitating meml)rane broad, conspicuous, and evidently 

 leaving a deep pocket on each side. Mouth broad, margin of upper 

 jaw rather evenly lunate or convex, and ramus of mandible would 

 form a ver}' obtuse angle. Gape of mouth about f its width. No 

 groove at each corner of mouth. Teetii all moderately large, directed 

 laterally, entire, rather broadly triangular, and each with an external 

 notch, no basal cusps. About 28 series of teeth in upper jaw and 

 about 24 series in lower. Nostril inferior on hammer along its anterior 

 margin near basal fifth of latter, as measured along its posterior margin, 

 or about inner j of space between tip of snout and end of hammer. 

 Nostril furnishal with but a slight flap. Top of head rather broadly 

 convex. 



Gill-oponings, first a little nearer posterior margin of hammer basally 

 than origin of dorsal, last two over base of pectoral, and second and 

 third largest. No spiracle. 



Ikxly covere<l entirely with veiy miinite shagreen denticles of appar- 

 ently uniform size. On lower surface of hamincr anteriorly a number 

 of more or less conspicuous small pores. 



Origin f>f first dorsal nearer tip of snout than that of second or about 

 opposite first fifth in space between origin of pectoral and that of 

 ventral, fin high, falcate, apex forming above just behind its base 

 whicli is 1} in its hciglit, ami its posterior point about 3^ in hea<l. 

 Origin of second dorsal a little nearer that of fii-st dorsal than end of 

 last caudal vertebra or about over middle of base of anal, base of fin 

 abf)ut T of its total length and long posterior point .3§ in head. Origin 

 of anal a little nearer posterior basal margin of ventral than origin of 




6S PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



lower caudal lobe, larger and also inserted well before second doreal,. 

 posterior point about 1| in its length and anterior lobe about equal to 

 length of base. Origins of caudal lobes nearly opposite(?), and distal 

 expansion of upper 7^ in its length. Anterior lobe of lower caudal 

 lobe 2yV in length of latter. Upper caudal lobe 2J- in rest of body. 

 Pectoral much smaller than first doi-sal, interventral space about -J 

 in length of fin, and greatest width about 2 in latter. In form pectoral 

 rather falcate and pointed and would reach about | of space to ventral. 

 Ventral inserted a little nearer origin of pectoral than that of lower 

 caudal lobe, fin low, its greatest height about last fourth of its length, 

 and clasper well developed. 



Color of dried skin deep dusk3'--brown over entire upper surface of 

 body, including dorsals and upper lobe of caudal. Upper surfaces of 

 pectoral and ventral of same tint. Entire lower surface of body pale 

 graj'-bown, this also largely over remaining portions of fins, anal and 

 clampers. Teeth whitish. 



Length 50^ inches. 



Pondicheiy, India. June 9, 1840. Thomas Rj'an. 



It differs from Cantor's figure'® in the narrower and longer hammer. 



SQUALID^. 

 Ozynotns centrina (Linnxus). 



Head 5^ to 5] ; depth 5| to 7^; width of head li to 2 in its length; 

 depth of head H to l^; snout 2^ to 3; eye 3| to 4; width of mouth 3f 

 to 4 J; interorbital space 2yV to 3; firet dorsal spine IJ to If; second 

 <lorsal spine 1 J to ly^; least depth of caudal pefluncle 4; height of lower 

 caudal lobe 2 to 2^; pectoral 1 ; ventral 1^ to 1§; length 9} to 12 inches 

 Italy (Bonaparte, No. 242). From Wilson. 



Also another, dried skin, with same data, No, ^. 



Sqaalns acanthiai Linno^u!*. 



Ca.'^tinc (Ci. U. Wood) and .Mt. Desert (Dr. H. C. Chapman), Maine; 

 Gloucest€r (U. S. N. M.), Mass.; Cape May (H. W. Hand), N. J.; Italy 

 (Bonaparte, No. 246). 



Squalai blainville (Risso). 



Head 5i;d('j)th 8 to 9g ; width of head I5 to lA in its length; depth 

 of hea^l at first gill-opening IJ to 2J; snout 2^ to 2 1, measured from 

 front of mouth; eye •i'i to 4J; width of mouth 2i to 2j\; interorbital 

 space 2^ to 23 ; first doi-sal sj^ine 2g to 2|?; second dorsal spine 2f to 



Quart. Journ. Calcutta Med. Phya. Soc., No. V, January 1, isas, PI. 1. 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 69 



2^; least depth of caudal peduncle 7 to 8^; pectoral lyV to li; ventral 

 1^ to 1^; teeth in 26 series in jaw; length 18f to 26 inches. Italy 

 (Bonaparte, Xo. 249). Three examples. 



Entoxychirus uyato (Rafinesque). 



Head 4i; depth S; width of head If in its length; snout 2J; eye 3f ; 

 width of mouth 2|; interorbital space 2*; first dorsal spine 2|; second 

 dorsal spine 3$; lea.st depth of caudal peduncle 5^; pectoral 1§; ventral 

 2; teeth about ^J; length 20^ inches. Italy (Bonaparte, Xo. 241). 



Centrophorus granulosus (Schneider). 



Head about 5 J ; depth about 7f ; width of head about 1 1 in its length : 

 snout 3; eye-cavity 4; snout to front of mouth about 2^; width of 

 mouth 3; interorbital space 2*; fii-st dorsal spine 4; second doi-sal spine 

 4^; least depth of caudal peduncle 6; pectoral 2 along front margin: 

 length of ventral 2}; teeth ^^; lengtii, dried, about 33| inches. Italy? 

 (Bonaparte, Xo. 42). 



Also another example, dried, without data, probably same as above? 



Dr. Dodorlcin included Squalus vyalo Rafinesque" as a synonym of 

 this species. From the lattcr's very rude figure,^* though of couree of 

 little value, one would be obliged to retain it under Squalus. 



Etmopterus spinax (Linna;us). 



Head SyV to 5|; depth about 6^ to 9.ii?; width of head li to U in its 

 length ; snout 2| to 3^; eye 3 to 5 (iris) ; width of mouth 2^ to 2|; space 

 between tip of snout and front margin of upper jaw 1^ to 1/^; inter- 

 orbital spaco 2^^ to 2$ ; least depth of caudal pe<luncle 5? to 6^ ; lieight of 

 lower caudal lobe 3; to 3|; pectoral If'^ to 2^^^; ventral If to Ij; teeth 

 f§; length lU to 16| inches. Italy (Bonaparte, No. 243). Three 

 examples. 



Centroscyllium fabrioii (Reinhanlt). 



George's I'jaiik (U. S. X. M.). A young example. 



DALATIID^. 



Dalatias lioha (noniuitcrrc). 



IIcu<l 6*; depth Si| to 9; width of head 1^ to U:<lepth of head about 

 1 J to 22 ; .snout 4^ to 4^ : eye. to edge of iris, 6^ to 7; space between tip 

 of snout and front margin of upper jaw 3$; width of mouth 2^ to 3^; 

 interorbital space 2j^ to 3; length of fii-st dorsal U to lij ; length of second 



" Car. Suov. dm. Sicilia. ISlO. p. \.\. 



'• Sqimluit xvjdtuH Hafun'squc, I.e., I'l. 11, fig. -. 




70 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



dorsal 1^ to If ; least depth of caudal peduncle 6 to 6^; height of lower 

 caudal lobe 2f to 2f : pectoral 1^: ventral, without clasper, Ij^^^; length 

 32^ to 33J inches. Italy ( Bonaparte. Xo. 240). Two examples, 



SQUATINID^. 

 Sqaatina sqaatina (Linnsus). 



Three from Italy (Bonaparte, Xo. 238) ; one from Bay of Xaples (Dr. 

 H. C. Chapman) ; large example without data. 



Also three dried skins, without data. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 71 



DESCEIPTION OF A NEW SPECIES OF SQUALOID SHAEK FROM JAPAN. 

 BY CHIYOMATSU ISHIKAWA, PH.D. 



Squalas japonions Ishikawa, new species. 



Acanthias nilgaris Schlegel, Fauna Japonica, Poisson, p. 304, PI. 135, 1S50; 

 Acanlhias vulgaris, Ishikawa, Prelim. Cat., p. 61, 1897. Not of Risso. 



Body elongate, slender, tail moderately tapering behind. Head 

 rather narrow; snout produced, pointed, upper surface flattened; 

 nostrils nearer mouth than tip of snout, nearly midway between angle 

 of mouth and tip of snout. Nasal flaps normally formed. 



Eyes large, lateral, situated nearer first gill-opening than end of snout. 

 Length of eyelid a little less than half distance from its anterior angle 

 to tip of snout. Spiracles large, closely posterior to and little above 

 eye, vertical diameter of spiracle slightly over one-third length of eye. 

 Spiracular valve not very fleshy. Narrow groove between posterior 

 angle of eye and lower border of spiracle. 



Mouth moderate, slightly curved, situated at about three-fifths 

 distance from tip of snout to level of first gill-opening. Upper lip well 

 developed, lower closely attached to teeth within. Oral groove nearly 

 straight, deep. 



Teeth of upjicr jaw smaller than those of lower, and somewhat more 

 erect. Gill-openings in front of base of pectoral, and slightly above, 

 fourth and fifth gill-slits somewhat nearer together than preceding ones. 



First dorsal nearer to pectoral than to ventral, it.s origin somewhat 

 in advance of inner posterior angle of pectoral, midway between tip of 

 snout and origin of second dorsal; first dorsal spine slightly less than 

 height of fin; posterior border somewhat emarginate and slightly pro- 

 duced. Second dorsal about midway between ventral and caudal, 

 smaller, posterior margin rather deeply emarginate, lower lobe moder- 

 ately produced ; spine as long as fin and longer than that of first. Both 

 spines triangular, without any lateral groove, but liinder margin 

 slightly hallowed out. Pectorals largo, ijut shorter than iiead, reaching 

 beyond origin of first dorsal, its liinder margin nKxlerately emarginate. 

 Vcntrals midway between first and second dorsals; cautlal lobes well 

 developed. Upper caudal groove triangular ami very distinct; lower 

 rather inconspicuous. 



Scales verj' minute, closely set; each witii a nietlian keel which ends 




72 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



in a point and with smaller ones on each side. Scales at extreme end of 

 snout granular, and without any keel. Lateral line distinct. 



^lale copulatorj' organ large, with a hook-like appendage near 

 extreme end on inner side, and with another hook on outer side 

 proximally to the former. 



Three specimens were examined, two males bought at the Tokyo 

 market, and said to have been caught in the Sagami Bay, and a single 

 female from Kagoshima. Tliey are in the Imperial Museum of Tokyo. 



The proportional lengths of different parts in a male specimen are 

 as follows: 



Total length ... 



Snout to nostril 



Snout to fii"st gill-slit ... 



Snout to mouth 



Nostril to mouth 



Mouth to anus 



Diameter of body at first gill-slit 

 Diameter at spiracles 

 Length of upper caudal lobe 

 Length of lower caudal lobe 

 Base of first dorsal .... 

 Height of first dorsal 

 First dorsal to ventral 

 Ba.'^e of second dorsal . 

 Height of second doi-sal . 

 Second dorsal to upper caudal lol:)e 

 Length of pectoral .... 

 Breadth of pectoral .... 

 Eye to dorsal end of first gill-slit 

 Distance between nostrils 



Gape 



Ijcngth of eye 



Length of oral groove 

 Deepest part of oral groove . 



Snout to eye 



First dorsal spine to second dorsal ^ 

 Eye to first gill-slit . . 

 Snout to first dorsal sj)ine 

 Length of first dorsal spine 

 Df»r.>^al margin of doi-sal fin 

 Length of second dorsal spine 

 Dorsal margin of second dorsal fin 



pUie 



700 mm. 



42 

 120 



75 



30 

 276 



74 



73 

 132 



72 



30 



39 



43 



24 



26 



73 



88 



60 



44 



33 



36 



26 



24 

 8 



50 

 230 



45 

 220 



38 



03 



40 



•J7 



General Considerations. — Judging from the ver>' scanty literature we 

 have, I am incline*! to con.sider the present species to come nearest to 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 73 



Acanthias blainvillii of Risso, from which it differs only in the position 

 of the first dorsal, tiie origin of which Giinther gives as being placed 

 "conspicuously in advance of the inner posterior angle of the pectoral" 

 (Giinther, Catalogue of Fishes, Vol. VIII, p. 419, 1870), othenvise it 

 accords well with the description given by Miiller and Henle to this 

 species (Miiller and Henle, Plagiostomen, 1841, pp. 84-85), so that I was 

 rather inclined to regard our specimen to be the same species. Since, 

 however, the descriptions of these authore are verj' short, making the 

 identification of the species difficult, I have allowed xnyself to propose 

 a new name for our Japanese form. 



. A fact of some interest regarding this species, however, is the 

 presence of two hooks attached to the copulator}- organ in our forms, 

 whereas Miiller and Henle give it to be the generic character of .4can- 

 thias that the "Milnnchen haben an der aussern Seite des Endes der 

 Anhiinge einen beweglichen, am Ende wenig gekriimmten Dorn oder 

 Stachel." Whether the second spine we find in our specimen does 

 exist in the specimens of these authors, or whether it was overlooked 

 by them, which fact is, judging from the otherwise very careful and 

 accurate descriptions of the German authors, ven,' improbal)le, I am 

 at loss to form any definite opinions. In case, however, the first alter- 

 native proves to be the fact, then the specific distinction of our forms 

 is beyond any doubt. 



This species is well distinguished from the more common Japanese 

 species of this genus, Squalus mitsukurii of Jordan and Snyder. 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



ANIMAL NAMES AND ANATOMICAL TEBMS OF THE GOSHUTE INDIANS. 

 BY RALPH V. CHAMBERLIX. 



The Indians commonly known as Goshutes represent a tribe of the 

 great Shoshone family, now much reduced in numbers. At this time 

 the remnant of the tribe is gathered principally in two colonies, one 

 located in Skull \'allej', Utah, and the other across the desert in Deep 

 Creek (Ibapah), near the Utah-Xevada border. Permanent camps 

 existed in these same places long before the advent of white settlers. 

 The Indians of these two colonies had a single tribal organization, the 

 last recognized chief of which, Ta'bi by name, died a number of years 

 ago. 



The Indians that formerly held possession of the region from Salt 

 Lake Valley to Weber ^^alley were close in language and customs to 

 the Goshutes proper; but they had a distinct tribal organization. 

 Their last chief, named Goship, is said to have been buried south of 

 Salt Lake City, near the present site of the State Prison. According 

 to the statement of survivors of this band, in the days of Goship's 

 prime, when he seems to have been renowned as a war-chief, his fol- 

 lowers numbered some thousands. Beginning with the advent of the 

 Mormon pioneers, however, a rapid decrease in this band occurred, so 

 much so that in a surprisingly few j-ears it was jiracticall}' extinct. The 

 principal agency in this decimation was certain diseases, brought by the 

 whites, to which the natives had never before been exposed, and towhich, 

 as a consequence, they hatl acquired no special resistance. They died off, 

 it is said, by the hundretls. Almost overnight an entire camp would be 

 swept free of every living soul. In 1S4S, for example, an epidemic of 

 measles broke out among them. Ignorant of the proper treatment of 

 the disease, and not knowing whence it came, many a.s.sembled at the 

 Warm Springs north of Salt Lake City, and sought relief by bathing in 

 these waters. They died off in large numbei-s, as many as forty being 

 heaped in a single grave. The few individuals that now survive from 

 a once proud tribe have taken uj) their abode with neighl)oring tribes 

 and bands. The Goshutes proper, in the valleys in the west, also 

 suffered strong reduction. 



The languages of the Goshutes ancl of the Goships, a.^ \\v may con- 

 venientlv .'md in :if((inl:iiicf' witli llu-ir own usa'je designati'" the Indians 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 75 



of the two chieftaincies above mentioned, are very clase to that of the 

 Shoshones proper, much closer than to that of Utahs, notwithstanding 

 some widespread statements to the contrary. Between the dialect used 

 by the Goships and that of the more western bands the differences are 

 largely phonetic, certain sounds in one replacing certain ones in the other 

 with great regularity. Thus, y at the beginning of syllables in Goshute 

 words commonly becomes n in the Goship. For example. yhYup, Goshute 

 for sternum, becomes nXn'up in Goship; and, similarly, pai'ya, Goshute 

 for wasp, becomes pai'na. The names for le.ss common animals or other 

 objects were occasionally quit« different. Even between the Indians of 

 the Skull \'alley and Deep Creek bands, between which there has been 

 continual intercourse and migration, certain phonetic differences in 

 language are found. Thus, the sound of z in the Skull ^'alley dialect 

 commonh' changes to the sound of th in the Deep Creek; e.g., ma dzi'ka, 

 to cut, and madza'tua, to close, in the former, become respectively 

 ma dthi'ka and ma dlha'tu a in the latter. 



In the present paper I give a list of animal names and anatomical 

 t€nns used by these Indians. Where differences between the termin- 

 ology of the Goshutes and that of the Goships are known to exist the 

 different forms are given. Where no such difference is indicat«<l the 

 term given Is to be regarded as common to both in most cases. Many 

 of the names of animals are imitative, as is true of a larger number in our 

 own t(jngue tlian we connnouly realize; a large number are descriptive 

 of feature or habit; while fewer have some legendary reference. No 

 effort is made in this place to present such philosophy as this people 

 had or has concerning the animal world, their animal legends, or their 

 many observatioas upon the habits and characteristics of the different 

 forms. ^Vllere the significance of a name is sufficiently clear the 

 analysis is indicated. Some of the names, becau.'^e of age, .seem to have 

 undergone changes, rendering analysis no longer possible. 



Certain endings and significant syllables occurring frequently may 

 i)e note<l with a<ivantage. 



1. The nominal ending -nump or -ump is affi.xed to verl)s to indicate 

 the means or instrument by which the actions represented by the veri)S 

 are perfornuHl. Tor example: 



lia'vi nump, bed ; from lin'vi do, to lie tlown, arul -nump. 

 tl'lsi a nump, table-fork ; from ti'tai, to stick into, and -nump. 



Less commonly it is used in the same sease as -up or -/) as indicated 

 under 2. 



2. The ending -up or -p is u.scd. 




76 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



(a) As a nominal ending indicating the object, substance or material 

 protluced or involved. For example: 



tXk'tip. food ; from di'ka rro, to eat. and -lip. 



pa'gln up. cloud ; from p<i'gfn, to produce water, and -tip. 



(6) As an adjective ending. For example: 

 im'do tip, leaky ; from wi'do In. to leak, and -up. 



3. The particle no, used both as prefix and affix, designates a sup- 

 port, instrument or means. For example: 



na'dzi ta, walking cane; from na, and dzi'ta, a stick or rod. 

 na'tze ya, handle; from na and ma tze'ya, to carry. 



4. The particle do or rro is common 



(a) As an ending in verbs, particularly in those indicating personal 

 action. For example: 



ka'rri do. to sit down. 

 gits' hwai do, to chew. 



(6) As a nominal ending, designating the thing as the agent perform- 

 ing or the thing concerned in some action or object. For example : 



ma'si do, finger-nail; from ma. the hand (in compounds), si, indicating 

 extension in plate-like form, and do. 



5. ma, a particle indicating the hand or relation to the hand. For 

 example : 



ma'so gi, finger. 



mam'bi shu go. to rub the hands together. 



G. da, a particle similarly indicating the foot or relatio^i to it. For 

 example : 



da'so gi, toes. 



da'pi shu ga, to rub or scrape with the foot. 



7. tso, a particle often use*! as referring to or moaning the head. 

 For example: 



tso'tXgi niimp. pillow; from ls<>, ma tVgi, to place. ;ind -nump. 

 tso'go tin, to bump the head ; from tsn and gaTiti, to strike. 



8. hi, a particle widely usc<l to indicate life or part of a living bmly. 

 For example: 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 77 



6i'a or bi, the heart. 



-b\tc, an affix frequent in animal names; as mom'Mtc, owl, and tu'ko- 



bXtc, wildcat. 

 jyam'bi, head ; from pam (pa, top, -m, adj. ending) and bi. 

 tim'pi, mouth. 



This particle was, it seems, formerly the ending in the names of some 

 parts of the body now designated by different terms, in some of^which 

 the j)artiole no longer occui"s. Thus for head there was a more ancient 

 term, tso'pi, tiie first syllable of which is now alone used as indicated 

 under 7. Foot, now designated by namp, seems to have had another 

 name, dn'pi; and similarly with hand, for which the present term moq 

 was apparently precetled by yna'bi or mam'bi. The fii'st syllables in 

 these are used in similar way to tso, as indicated under 5 and 6. 



9. xm as a verbal particle means to bend, to turn aside, to wriggle. 

 Probably secondarily it means to produce, etc. Hence in some 

 Shoshone dialects, used alone, it means infant, young. It is frequent in 

 names of animals, where its primary use would seem to be to indicate 

 a young animal, or an animal so regarded. 



ai'wn, a fawn. 

 wa'bi, a worm. 



10. 7', s, ts, tc, tci, and k are noun endings, the exact force of which 

 nee<l not be here discussed. 



11. iV or m added to a noun converts the latter into an adjective. 

 For example: 



jxi, water; pam, aquatic. 

 ni'wa, liver; ni'wam, hepatic. 



\Vlien a merely phonetic difference exists between words as useil in 

 Skull Valley and Deep Creek, the j^ronunciation of the former is fol- 

 lowod, tiiat of the latter being readily derivable from it. The values 

 of tiie different Icttei-s as useil in the present paper are indicated below. 



a, e, i and o when unmarked are given their usual long sound in 

 European tongues. 



& is sounde(l like a in fat. 



5 Is sounded like e in met. 



1 is soundc^l like i in |)it. 



fi is .sounde<l like u in Ijutter. 



ii is sounded like ii in German miide or as u in the French lunc. 



u is soundjHJ like no in iutot. 



ai i.s souiidiMl like ai in (jerman Kaiser or i in l)ite. 




78 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



oi is sounded like oi in boil. 



q is sounded like ch in German lachen, Dach, etc. 



sh is sound eil a.s in ?hcll. 



tc is sounded like ch in English chance, or like c in Italian cicerone. 



IT is sounded with a roll as in the Spanish perro. 



n is sounded like ng in the English words sing, gong, etc. 



Other consonants have their usual force in English. 



A. 



abdomen ; belly : 



sap. 



bo'tsi (Deep Creek, in addition 

 to sap), 

 after-birth : 



ga'rrlp. 



animal : 



mi'a gwain. 

 ant (general term) : 



a'ni. 

 ant, red {Pogonomyrmex occi- 

 dentalis, var.): 

 a'ni gAvi tchuk. 



a'rran gotsabi (Goshute, D, C). 

 ant, black {Camponotus pennsyl- 

 vanicus, etc.) : 

 a'ni. 



a'rra si witc (Goshute). 

 This ant and related forms is 

 said to have been eaten 

 formerly by the western 

 Goshutes during times of 

 scarcity. The re<l aiit, be- 

 cause of its strong taste, 

 was not eaten. The ants 

 were gathero<l by l)i'irig 

 allowed to cover thickly a 

 hide H[)rca<i over their notit. 

 and were then bru-shcil off 

 into a suitable receptacle 



English-Goshute. 



or bag. They were cooked 

 by being placed in hot ashes 

 in a wicker or other vessel, 

 ant, velvet (Mntilla, etc.): 

 ga'go (Goshute, D. C). 



This name means "grand- 

 mother." 

 antelope {Antilocapra americana) : 

 (o) female: kwa'ri. 

 (6) male: pi'u wants, 

 antenna (as of locust) : 

 ap. 



[a, process, horn, etc. + p.] 

 gwa'shi bii hti (this term was 

 applied to the long antennje 

 of the crayfish). 

 {gwa shi, tail or tail-like ob- 

 ject + huliu.] 



anus: 



gwi'tOts. 



[gwi {kwi), a rout meaning to 

 shoot forth, expel, etc. -|- 

 tiiis, the latter likely coni- 

 pased of (o, designating u 

 tube-like object + ts, nomi- 

 nal ending.] 

 aorta: 

 Bi'a mo ko. 



[bi'a, iicart + 7nn'ko.] 

 arm: 



bti'i do; bii'rro. 




1908. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



avocet (Recurmrostris amcricana) : 

 pa'rro gots; pa'do gots. 



[pa, water + rro or do {vid. 

 supra) + gots.] 

 axilla ; arm-pit : 



a'na. 

 axolotl (larva of Amhly stoma) : 

 pa'bo go tci. 



{pa, water + ho (po) + go 

 tci.] 



B. 



back : 



gwai'ump ; g^^ai'iim. 

 back-bone ; vertebral column : 

 gwai'o rra. 



[gwai'ump, back -f- o'rra, 

 trunk, stalk, etc.] 

 badger {Taxidea americana) : 



u'na. 

 bangs; front hair: 



mo' pi hail ga sa (mo pai hah ga 

 sa). 

 [Prob. mo'hi, nose + hah'ga- 

 sa, general term for pend- 

 ent hair or locks, q. vid.] 

 bat (general term) : 



o'na bite, 

 beak; bill (of bird): 



mi'tcu ga ; ml'tciig, 

 bear, general term : 



wu'da. 

 bear, black ( Ursus amcricanus) : 

 (a) black: tu'wuda. 



[tu, from lu'o hit, black + 

 wu'da.] 

 tu'mtt su i ; tu'mil'^h. 

 [tu, black -f mu'su i.] 

 (6) brown: o'awuda. 



[d'd from o'a hit, yellow or 

 brown + wu'da.] 



o'a mii su i ; o'a ratlsh. 



[o'a, brown + mu'su i.] 

 oi'ya rro. 

 bear, grizzly ( Ursus horribilis) : 

 a'shi wu da. 



[a'shi, from a shi hU, gray + 

 vm'da.] 

 to'sa wu da. 



[to'sa, from to'sibit, white, 

 gray -I- wu'da.] 

 beaver (Aplodontia rufa) : 

 ha'ni; a'ni. 

 pa'o lints ; pa'o iints a ni. 



[pa'o, referring to water + 

 -lints.] 

 bee, bumble (Bomhus, various 

 species) : 

 rbi mti. 

 pi'I bi mQ. 



[pi'iip, big 4- Vhi mii.] 

 bee, honey (Apis mcllifica) : 

 tai'bo pai na (Goship). 



[tai'bo, white man + pai'na, 

 wa.sp, bee.] 

 tai'bo pai ya (Goshute). 

 beetle (general term) : 

 rshag(i;I'shagi a. 



[i'sha, wolf + gu, probably 

 from gi'a, to bite, to eat, 

 etc.] 

 Beetles are calle<l "wolf's 

 food," because said to be 

 eaten at times by the coy- 

 ote and wolf, 

 beetle, wo(xl-borer, larva of : 

 a'rrQts (Goship). 

 u'oabi (Go.shute). 

 beetle, dung {Aphodius, etc.) : 

 kwi'ttt l)U i. 



[kwit'tip. manure + hu'i.] 




80 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April. 



beetle, lady-bird {Coccinella, etc.) : 

 ?a'ka nabun. 

 [a'kn, branch, etc, + na + 

 bun, thing resting or living 

 upon, etc.] 

 beetle, tumble-bug : 

 wo'tsa wan dl tci. 



[u'o'tsa lean, to roll + hX tci.] 

 The name of these beetles is 

 given in reference to their 

 well-known habit of form- 

 ing balls of manure which 

 they roll often long dis- 

 tances before depositing 

 their eggs in them, 

 beetle, water-scavenger {Hydro- 

 philus) : 

 tu'ban di sip. 



[tu from tu'o hit, black -H pa, 

 water -I- n, adjective end- 

 ing + (prob.) di'si, signify- 

 ing, from its composition, 

 to stick or press into, press 

 through, pass through, etc. 

 + p, nominal ending.] 

 The latter part of this name, 

 ban di sip, is a somewhat 

 general term applied to 

 various aquatic forms, both 

 animal and plant. 

 bUe: 



ni'wavi bu i. 

 [ni wa, liver -f- in, adjective 

 ending + bui.] 

 bile-<luct: 

 HJ'gwa nadi wok. 

 {si'gwa -h na'di wok, indicat- 

 ing a connecting tube or 

 cord, etc.] 

 bird (general term) : 

 oi'tcu ; hoi'tcu. 



bison (jB. americanus) : 



(a) cow: tsa'kwltcu;sa'kwltc-u. 

 tl'bl tci gwltc. 



[tX'bl tci, true + kwitch, 

 from kwXtcen, a word now 

 commonl}' applied to the 

 domestic cow (Bos).] 



(b) bull: po'ijin. 



bittern, American {Botaurus len- 

 tiginosus) : 

 mo'p&ii gwi. 



This name is imitative of the 

 Spring song or "booming" 

 of this bird, which is well 

 represented by the repeti- 

 tion of these syllables six or 

 seven times, with the ac- 

 cent strongest upon the 

 second syllable and the 

 last one sounded least dis- 

 tinctly. 

 I black-bird (general term) : 



pa'gun stlk. 

 I black-bird, red-winged (Agdaus 

 phoeniceus) : 

 pufi'go pa gttn silk. 



[ptin'go, hoi-se -1- pa'gUnsuk.] 

 The name of "horse-black- 

 bird" is given to this 

 species, because observed 

 frequently to follow after 

 horsos in fiolds in order to 

 work over the drojjpings. 

 black-bird, yellow-headed {Xaiv- 

 thoccphdius icteroccplwliLs) : 

 sai'pa giln sTik. 



[saip, bulrush + pa'gun sUk, 

 Ijlackbird.] 

 bladder, urinary: 

 sip. 



[sip in strictness means the 




1908. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 



81 



urine (q. vid.), but is also 

 applied to the urinary sac] 

 si'mo gits. 



[sip, urine + 7no gilts, pouch 

 or sac] 

 blood : 



bu'iip;bwap. 

 blood-vessel (vein or artery) : 

 bai'bup ; bai u bi ; bai. 

 [bai, to fill or swell + hu'iip, 

 blood.] 

 blue-bird, Rocky Mountain {Sialia 

 arclica) : 

 ho'ka du i; wo'kwa du i. 

 bob-white {Colinus virginianus) : 

 tai'bo hu i tcu. 



[tai'bo, white man -f- hu'i tcu, 

 bird.] 

 ?wu'pa mu gi ; wu'pa mu gi ga- 

 ha (Goship). 

 [wu'pa, probably from ma- 

 wu'pain, to beat + woo'gi, 

 with or without ga'ha.] 

 Not a native of but early in- 

 troduced into Utah. Thu.s 

 the first name, 

 bone : I 



(Izo'nip. ' ' 



bruin: 



ku'blsh. I 



tso'ku bish. ' 



[tsn, pertaining to the head -|- 

 ku blsh.] I 



bug, stink (IVntatomid) : 

 a'ka na bm'i. 



[a'ka, branch of tree, etc. + | 

 na -I- buii, that which lies 

 or rcst.s upon, etc.] 

 kwi'ttl pT shu Int. 

 [kwit'up + manure 4- pT shu- 

 In + t.] 



This term, obtained from a 

 Deep Creek Indian, is not 

 in general u.se. 

 pln'tits. 



Of these three terms the fii-st 

 is the standard, 

 bug, giant, water (Belostoma) : 

 ban'di sip. 



[pa, water + n, adjective end- 

 ing + prob. (Ti'si, to thrust 

 into, pass through, etc. + 



P-] 

 butcher-bird (Lanius borealis): 



tin'tso na. 

 butterfly (general) : 



hai'po rrun. 

 buttocks : 



brta go. 



caddis-worm : 

 pa'si wut. 

 [pa, water.] 

 calf: 



kwltc'en du a. 



[kwftc'en, cow -^ in dua. 

 young one, etc.] 

 calf (of leg) : 



witc. 

 caribou {Rang if er) : 

 ?tu'pa rri a (floshipV 

 See Moose. 

 carp {Cyprinus carpio) : 

 tai'bo pin wTtc. 



[tai'bo, wl lite man — pUn wUc, 



ash.] 

 Called by this name Ix'cause 

 introduceil into the region 

 by white men. 

 carpus; carpal bone: 

 pi'u ma t.so ni. 




82 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



[pi'iip, large + fna, pertain- 

 ing to the hand + tso'ni, 

 tso'ntp, bone.] 

 cartilage: 

 si'no wi. 

 caterpillar (of Samia, Archippus, 

 etc.) : 

 pi'a ga. 

 caterpiUar (various hair\' forms) : 

 pu'i wa bit. 



[pu'i -f- wa'bi. worm.] 

 cedar-bird (Ajnpelis ccdrorum) : 

 Ava'wl tco go bite. 



centipede {Scolopendra; also Li- 

 thobius, etc.): 

 tim'pin to go a. 



[tlm'pi, stone, etc. -t- n, 

 adjective ending + to' go a, 

 rattlesnake.] 

 cerebellum : 

 te'e ku bish. 



[t^e, small -f- ku'blsh, brain, 

 nerve material.] 

 cerebrum : 

 pi'a ku blsh. 



[pi'up, large -f- ku'b^ish.] 



chickadee, black-caj^ped {Par us 

 atricapillus) : 

 I'jil gi. 



[Imitative.] 

 chickadee, mountain {Par us mon- 

 tanus) : 

 a'ni ki. 



[Imitative.] 



The call of this bird is repre- 

 sented by the Goshutos a.'< 

 a'ni kl, kX, ki, etc. 

 check : 

 sob. 



chin: 

 gl'pin go. 



[gVpin, pertaining to mouth 

 -f- go, bending round, angle, 

 etc.] 



chipmonk {Tamias lateralis): 



hoi. 

 chub {Leuciscus) : 



wi'tca pJlii gwltc. 



cicada, two-3'ear, or dog-day har- 

 vest fly {Cicada tibicen) : 

 gi'a;gu. 

 The cicada and its larvae 

 were formerly used as food 

 when abund ant. Th ey were 

 placed in holes lined with 

 hot stones, covered, and 

 allowed to remain thus 

 until cooked. 



cicada, seventeen-year {Cicada 

 septendecim) : 

 ta'bi da. 



clam, fre.sh-water {Atiodonta) : 

 wa'go un du ru a. 



[wa'go, frog + lin, article -I- 

 du ru a, child.] 

 wa'go (siiort for that above). 



clam-shell : 



wa'go tin kar ni. 



[wa'go, sliort for clam + un, 

 article + kdr'ni, hou.se, 

 enclosure, etc.] 



clavicle: 



o'ko. 



tso'ni wok. 

 claw. See finger-nail, 

 coccyx : 



gwa'shi tso nip. 



[gwd'shi, tail + tso'nlp, l)()ne.] 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 



83 



colt : 



ptin'go en du a. 



[puiYgo, horse + e)i or iin + 

 du a, young one.] 

 comb : 



fin'ka go si tip. 



[&H'ka hit, red + go si lip.] 

 cow (Bos) : 

 kwltc'en. 

 cow-bird (Molothnis atcr) : 

 pa'su iim pa gun suk. 



[pa'su iimp, sand + pa'giin- 

 suk, black-bird.] 

 coyote {Canis latrans) : 



i'jG pa. 

 crane, blue. Sec blue heron, 

 crane, northern brown (Grus cana- 

 densis) : 

 ko'rra. 



[Iiuitati\'e.] 

 crane-fly {Tipula, etc.) : 

 i'jtt ])a mo po. 



[i'ju pa, coyote + rno'po, 



mosquito.] 

 This name, "Coyote hkjs- 

 quito," is legendary, 

 pi'a mo po (not approveil). 

 [pi'a, big + mo po, mos(|uito.] 

 cray-fisii : 

 pa' to go bi. 



[jxi'to + go'bi, face.] 

 cricket, black {Anabrus simplex) : 

 m&'so. 



These crickets, in ])articular, 

 were formerly regularly 

 eaten when abundant, l)e- 

 ing roasted in pits lined 

 with hot stones and cov- 

 ere<l {nd. \nider Cicada). 

 Sometimes they were eaten 

 without prc\i"ii*< «'o(jking. 



During certain seasons this 

 form occurred in vast 

 swarms or "armies." at 

 such times furnishing an 

 easily obtainable, abund- 

 ant and relished food-sup- 

 ply. It is likened by the 

 Goshutes to the shrimp, 

 which, indeed, they term 

 the "fish-cricket" (w5 so- 

 pat'iicttc). This cricket and 

 the Cicada, which occurred 

 in similar abundance, were 

 apparently the most impor- 

 tant sources of Arthropod 

 food, 

 cricket, common {Gryllus) : 



tsu'rru pintc (Goship). 



tsu'du kum bite (Goshute). 



tsln'a ptntc (Goshute). 



ti'da kiim. 

 crow {Corvus americanus) : 



hai. 

 curlew {Murenius longirostris) : 



ko'hwi (Go.ship). 



ko'ki (Goshute). 

 [Imitative.] 



1). 



deer, black-tailed or mule: 



(a) general term: so'ko rri. 



(b) male: so'ko rri On gu fim pa. 

 [so' karri + un, article + gu- 



lim pa, male, mate.] 

 deer, wiiite-tailed or Virginia 

 {(hhcoilcus virginianus) : 

 jo'gwi. 

 deei-skin : 



f^o'ko rra em bur. 



[sn'korri.Avrv + cm bur, hide.) 




84 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



dew-claw: 

 ma'bin tea. 



[mo'bin, pertainins; to the 

 hand, etc. + tco.] 

 diaphragm : 



a'bo. 

 dipper or water ouzel {Cinclus 

 inexicanus): 

 paii'wi tcu ; pau'oi tcu. 

 [pa, water + oi'tcu, bird.] 

 Durinf: times of drought, the 

 Goships claim, rain may be 

 brought by grinding up the 

 flesh of one of these birds, 

 casting the same overhead 

 and pronouncing certain 

 sentences, 

 dog {Can is fatnliaris) : 



sa'dcti; sa'rrltc; sa'rri. 

 dove, mourning {Zenaidura caro- 

 linensis) : 

 ai'wi. 

 dragon-fly (general term): 

 pa'ga mu tu nats. 

 [See humming-bird.] 

 duck (general term) : 



bu'i. 

 duck, black-head {Fulix affinis) : 

 tu'pam pi bu i. 



[tu, lilack + pam'bi, head -I- 

 bu'i.] 

 duck, golden-eyed {Glaucionetta 

 danguUi americana) : 

 ko'ka pi gin. 



[Reference to whistle or whirr 

 pro<luced by wings.] 

 duck, mallard {Anns boscas): 

 pi'a Vju i, 



[pi'//p, big -f- bu'i.] 

 duck, re<l-hea<l {Fuligula jerina 

 americana) : 



Sn'ka pam pi bu i. 



[&n'ka, from d.i'i'ka bV, red + 

 pani'pi, head + bu'i.] 

 duck, pin-tail {Dafila acuta) : 

 wo'vin gwa shi bu i. 



[wo'i'^ii, pole, sprout, etc. -f- 

 giva'shi, tail -t- bu'i.] 

 duck, spoonbill or shoveller {Spa- 

 tula chjpeata) : 

 so'a bu i. 

 duck, teal (general term) : 

 so'ko bu i. 



[so'kUp, ground + bu'i.] 

 The name, "ground duck," 

 refei"s to the habit of these 

 ducks of nesting upon the 

 ground rather than among 

 rushes in water, 

 tl'sa bu i. 



[tl'sa, small + bu'i.] 

 duck, teal, blue-winged {Querque- 

 dula cijanoptcra) : 

 aiVka so kn bu i. 

 afi'ka tisa bu i. 



[Hn'ka bit, red + so'ko bu i or 



tl'sa bu i, teal duck.] 

 The name refers to the cin- 

 namon-colored breast, 

 duck, wood (.1(0: sponsa): 

 o'bin bu i. 



[o'blti, pertaining to wood 

 + bu'i.] 

 dura mater : 

 dzo'po a. 



[dzo, pertaining lo the head or 

 l)rain(?) + 6o'a, skin, etc.] 



E. 



eagle (general term) : 

 gwi'na. 




1908. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



85 



eagle, bakl (Halicrlus leucoceph- 

 alus) : 

 pa'si a. 

 eagle, golden (Aquila chnjsoetos) : 

 pi'a gAvi na. 



[pi'iip, big + gwi'na.] 

 ear: 



n&n'kus; nSiik. 

 ear-hole : 



nSn'kIn dain. 



[n&iVkXn, pertaining to the ear 

 + dain, hole.] 

 ear, lobule of : 

 nSn'kIn du a. 



[n&n'kXn, pertaining to the 

 ear + du^a.] 

 earth-worm {Lumbricus, etc.) : 

 so'ko \va bi (Goshute). 

 pa'u \\a bi ; pa'u hwiip (Goship). 

 [The first term consists of 

 so'kiip, earth + wa'hi, 

 worm; the second of pa'u, 

 pertaining to water -|- 

 ica'bi (cf. German Regen- 

 icunn).] 



egg: 

 noi'ya. 



elbow : 



gip- 

 elk (Cervus canadensis) : 



(a) general term: pa'rra hi. 



(6) male: pa rri vi\ gu tim pa. 

 [pa'rri + gu'um pa, male, 

 mate.] 

 esophagus : 



(lln'gi ok. 

 eye: 



bu'i; bu. 

 eye-brow: 



gai'ba. 



eye, iuimor of : 

 bu'i pa. 



\bu'i, eye + pa. water.] 

 eye, lens of : 



bu'i rrin du ga. 

 eye-lash : 

 bu'rro sip. 



[bu'i, eye + rro + sip, that 

 which protrudes in plate- 

 or leaf-like form, etc.] 

 eye-lid : 



bu'i bo ump. 



\bu'i, eye + bo. cover, etc. + 

 ump.] 

 epiglottis : 

 ai'go bi shi a. 



[ai'go, tongue -\- bi + shi'a.\ 



face : 



go'bi ; gob. 

 fat: 



yuq. 



[so'yo hobui; so'yo ho bwi.] 

 fawn, young of deer: 

 ai'wa. 



[l^robably ai, to spring or 

 leap, etc. + jra.] 

 feather : 

 shi'Gp. 



ga'sa gOnt; ga'sa (applied 

 commonly to long wing 

 feathers. Cf. wing), 

 ferret. l)lack-footod : 

 kwi'pu ka (Goship). 



[Said to be imitative, the cry 

 being repret'enteil as kwXp, 

 kwXp, kwXp.] 

 The identification was from 

 figure and ilcscription of 

 habiUi. 




86 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



fetlock : 

 ma'pii. 



[ma, hand, paw, etc. + pii-] 

 fetus : 

 du'I tci. 



[du'a, child, young + tci, tsi, 

 diminutive.] 

 fin (of fish) : 

 pa'vvu gi. 



[pa, water + wu'gi, flail, etc.] 

 finch, Allen'.'^ rosy (Leucosticte 

 australis) : 

 kai'ma. 

 pi'a kai ma. 



[pi'up, large + kai'ma.] 

 finch, crimson {Carpodoeus pur- 

 purea) : 

 kai'ma. 

 finger (general term) : 

 ma'sul ki. 

 ma'so gi. 



[ma, hand, pertaining to the 

 hand + su't ki or so'gi, 

 indicating things repeated 

 or of the same kind.] 

 finger: 



(a) index: ma'tsi tsuk. 



(b) little: ma'tu a. 



(c) middle or second : nia'ti bi- 



a ka. 



(d) third : tu'i ma tsi tsuk. 

 finger-nail ; claw : 



ma'si do. 



[ma, hand, pertaining to hand 

 + si'do, to protrude in 

 plate-like form, plate-likc 

 object protruding.] 

 flesh, meat: 



du'ku; tu'kwa. 

 fly, horse (Tabonus): 

 pi'pT ta. 



fly, horse, banded (Chri/sopa) : 

 on'ti ya kwa. 



[on'ti, probably from on ii gait, 

 brown -I- ya'kwa.] 

 fly. house (Musca) : 



a'ni bo. 

 fly-catcher, yellow-bellied (Em- 

 pidonax flavivenlris) : 

 pin'ji rru. 

 fly-catcher, yellow-bellied striped 

 {Myodinastca luteivcntris) : 

 an'i ta; wafi'i ta. 



[an' go, timber, etc. 4- i'ta (cf 

 meadow-lark.)] 



foot: 

 nam p. 



[A]:)parently iui, "support, that 

 which is beneath and sup- 

 ports, etc. -I- limp, nominal 

 ending {lid. ante).] 

 forehead : 

 ga;.gai. 

 foreskin : 



pa'skin Ip. 

 fowl, domestic: 



(a) general : tai'bo ka um bun. 

 [lai'ho, white man + ka uvi- 

 bitri.] 

 ka Gm Imih uiu gum \)i\. 

 {b) cock. 



[ka'iim huh + gum'pn, male 

 mate, etc.] 

 fowl, guinea {Numida mrlcagris): 

 wi'jOn gwi na. 



[u'i'ja, sage-hen + gwi'na.] 

 Socalhnl because thought to 

 resemlile in some ways the 

 sage-hen. 

 fox, general term: 

 wa'ni. 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



S7 



fox: 



(a) gray: to'sa wa ni. 



[to'sa, from to'siMt, white or 

 gray + wa'ni.] 

 (6) kit or burrowing : yl'ba. 



(c) red : wai'am bite, 

 on'ti wa ni. 



[on'ti, from on'ti gait, red- 

 dish brown, etc. + UYt'ni.] 



(d) silver or black : tu'wa ni. 

 [tu, from tu'ohtt, black + 



ica'ni.^ 



G. 



gall-l)ladder: 

 ni'wam bu i. 

 ni warn bu i tsuk. 



[ni'wa, liver -\- m -\- bu'i, 

 blood, fluid, etc, Tsuk, 

 when not added, is to 

 be understood. It means 

 sack or pouch. (Cf. bile.)] 

 gill (of ash) : 

 pa'so na. 



[pa, water + su'na. Cf. 

 lung.] 

 giraffe : 

 pai'wa. 



This name was applied by 

 the^se Indians to certain 

 mythical creatures with 

 long necks which were sup- 

 posed to live in the Warm 

 Spring Lake north of Salt 

 Lake City, in which they 

 were supposal to have 

 holes. When the giraffe 

 was first seen by them at 

 circuses exhibiting at Salt 

 Lake, they immediately 

 identified it with the crea- 



ture they claimed formerly 

 dwelt in the lake before 

 mentioned, 

 gizzard : 



bi'bonts. 

 goat. Rocky Mountain {Oreamnos 

 rnotUanus) : 

 ka'ni ru tints ; ka'ni runts, 

 goat-sucker (Chordeiles I'irgin- 

 ianus): 

 ho'i dtik. 

 glans penis : 

 wu'Im para bi. 



[iru, penis + m + pam'pi, 

 head.] 

 goldfinch, Arkansas {Astragalinus 

 psaltria) : 

 tu'kai yam pa. 



["Bird that calls at dark,'' 

 is the effect of this com- 

 pound .] 

 goose, Canada (Branta cana- 

 densis) : 

 nu'gtin ta. 

 goshawk. Western {Accipiter atri- 

 capillus) : 

 sJl'na kwi na. 



[sti'/itt -+- gwi'na, general term 

 for certain large-sizal bird, 

 eagle, etc.] 

 gopher, pocket {Geomys) : 



i'a bite, 

 gras-shoj^pcr, long-horned (Orche- 

 limiim, etc.) : 

 a'ma tsu bite (Goship). 

 a'wa tu bi (Goshute, D. C). 

 grebe, Western {^omophorus occi- 

 dcntalis) : 

 ti'idltrt a j)am bufi. 

 ti'i cllts a pam bun ftfi ka bu i. 




88 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April 



[d'i (Pits, small + pajn'bun, 

 swimmer, etc. 4- with or 

 without &n ka hui, red eye, 

 in reference to this well- 

 known feature of the bird.] 

 grebe, American eared, or Hell- 

 diver (Auriius califomicus) 

 noi'va wii ta. 



[noi'ya, egg -i- ica'to, two, 

 changed to wu'ta for eu- 

 phony.] 

 grosbeck, black-headed rosy 

 {Zamelodia melanocephala) : 

 mo'bi OS. 



[Xame refers to the con- 

 spicuous beak or nose 

 (mo'bi).] 

 grouse, pine (Canice obscura) : 

 wan'go ha ; an'go go ha. 



[vxiiVgo, timber + ga'ha, 

 general term for this type 

 of bird.] 

 grouse, Canada (Canace cana- 

 densis) : 

 ko'go. 



My informants claim that this 

 grouse was formerly fairly 

 common in Weber Valley. 

 The identification was from 

 figure, no specimen being 

 available. 



ground-squirrel (Spermophilus, 

 various species) : 

 kim'ba. 

 gull, California {Larus califor- 

 nicus) : 

 pa'u a. 



[jw, water + u'a, possiljly, 

 from composition, to move 

 or glide above.] 



H. 



hair (general term) : 

 (6) of head : wu. 

 pam'pi wu. 



[pam'pi, head + wu.] 



(c) front locks ("bangs"): 



mo'pai ban ga sa. 



(d) hind locks : ban'ga sa. 

 [Probably ban, top, per- 

 taining to head, etc. 4- 

 ga'sa, wing or similar 

 object.] 



(e) of pubic region : su'ttp. 



hair-snake (Gordius) : 

 pan'du rra; ban'du rrai. 

 [pan, aquatic + du'rra.] 



hand: 



(a) general term; right: moq; 

 mok. 



(b) left: kwi'ba. 

 hand, heel of: 



ma'pin go. 



[ma'bin, pertaining or belong- 

 ing to the hand + go, 

 angle, bend, etc.] 

 hawk, eiiicken {Accipiter coopcri): 



pan'dza ya. 

 hawk, duck (Falco peregrinus 

 anatinus): 

 pa'gi ni. 

 hawk, fish {Pandion halicBtus) : 

 pa'nQfi ka. 



[pan, aquatic -f- un + ka.] 

 hawk, marsh {Circus cyaneus hud- 

 sonius) : 

 ki'ni. 

 hawk, rough-legged {Archibutio 

 lagopus sancti-johannis) : 

 nftn'du ga. 




1908. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



S9 



hawk, rough-] efrged, ferruginous 

 (Archibutco ferrur/incous) : 

 nSn'doi. 

 hawk, pigeon (Falco columbarius) : 



ko'na gi dl ka. 

 hawk, sharp-shinnal (Accipiter 

 velox) : 

 o'a da. 

 hawk, sparrow (Falco sparverius) : 

 gl'di dl ki. 



[Imitative, the call being 

 represented as gl'di, gVdi, 

 gt'di, etc.] 

 hawk, red-shouklered {Buteo linea- 

 tus): 

 ash'i um a da. 

 ash'i u a da. 



[a'shi bit, gray, grizzly, etc. + 

 o'a da.] 

 hawk, Swaiason's {Buteo swain- 

 soni): 

 nan'gai. 

 liead : 

 pam'bi; pam'pi. 



\ba, pa, top, etc. + m, adjec- 

 tive ending -I- bi, life, part 

 of living body, etc.] 

 heart : 



bi'a; bi; bi'hi. 

 [hi, life, living thing or i)art, 

 etc.] 

 lieart, auricular and ventricular 

 cavities of : 

 lii'ani bai hyu. 

 heart, valves of (tricuspid and 

 mitral): 

 bi'am nam ba. 

 heel (»f foot : 

 da'|)In gf). 



[da'pin, pertuimng to tiie foot 

 + go, anirlc. etc.] 



heron, black-crowned night 

 (Nycticorax nycticorax na;- 

 I'alis) : 

 to'sa ko kwa jo. 



[to'sa, from to'si bit. white -H 

 ko'kwa jo, crest, etc.] 



heron, great blue {Ardea herodias) : 

 ko'kwa jo. 



[The name means a crest, the 

 reference being to the long 

 crest at the back of the 

 head of this bird.] 

 hip: 



dzi'ump. 

 hip-bone (os iimominatum) : 

 dzi'Gn Gp. 



[dzi'iin, from dzi'ump, hip -I- 

 up.] 

 hone\' : 



pai'yam pi na. 



[pai yam, pertaining to bee or 

 wa.sp + pi'na, sweet.] 



hoof: 

 ta'si do. 



[ta, referring to the foot -}- 

 si'do, leaf- or plate-like ob- 

 ject. Cf. finger-nail or 

 daw.] 

 iiorn: 

 a; ha. 



horn or antlers, new, in velvet: 

 I'gi a san gttn. 



horn-tail : 

 o'pi tu Its. 

 o'bln bi dut.s. 



[o'bln, pertaining to wcxxl -f- 

 lu'Vs, apparently lx)rer, 

 Jiole-Miaker (cf. nuul- 

 daul)er).] 




90 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April' 



horned toad (Phrynosotna doug- 

 lasii, etc.) : 

 ma'ki jGn Hk. 

 horse : 



pGii'go. 

 humerus : 

 dzo'Gp. 

 humming-bird (general term) : 

 mu'tu nats (Goship). 

 pa'ga mu tu nats ; ti'bi tci pa ga 

 mu tu nats (Goshute). 

 [mu tunats, straight nose or 

 beak ; pn'ga , probably arrow, 

 in reference to swift flight. 

 Tibitci is prefixed to dis- 

 tinguish from dragon-fly, 

 q. vid.] 

 hv-pochondriac region: 

 i'piimp. 



I. 



instep : 

 dau'wo. 



[da, pertaining or belonging 

 to the foot (the a sound 

 changing to au before w as 

 al\va3\s) -f- wo, bow, arch.] 

 interdigital space or croutch: 



man'na si ga. 

 intestines : 



go'ha. 

 iris of eye: 

 gifi'wai bi. 



jay, Rocky Mountain (Perisoreus 

 canadensis var. capitalis) : 

 yu'rro gots. 



[yufj, fat + rro'gots.] 

 The name refers to the fond- 

 ness of birds for fat, whicli 



they boldly approach 

 camps to obtain, 

 jay, long-crested {Cyanocetta 

 macrolopha) : 

 hafi'go tsai Ijitc. 



[hah'go refers to crown or 

 crest + tsaihitc] 

 jay, wood house {Aphelocoma 

 floridana woodhousi) : 

 tsai'bitc. 



K. 



katydid (general term) : 



u'bi a gun. 

 kidney: 



da'ki po. 

 killdeer {^gialites vociferus) : 

 tin'di (Goship). 

 pan'di (Goshute). 

 [pan, aquatic] 

 kingfisher {Ceryle alcyon) : 

 pSii'gwi tsa rra pintc. 



[p&tVgwttc, fish + tsa'rra + 

 plntc] 

 kite, swallow-tailed {Elanoides 

 forficatus) : 

 ttm'bai wa ga. 



[iva'ga, from wa' gasaga , 

 forked, is applied to several 

 birds with forked tails (cf. 

 tern), 

 knee: 



dan'iip. 

 knuckle: 

 ma'pon dza. 

 [ma, belonging to the hand 

 etc. + pon'dza, eminence 

 protuberance, etc.] 



L. 



labia majora: 

 gwa'bi nil. 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



91 



larj'nx: 



wai'a tin. 

 leech (p:eneral term) : 



pa'na \vi tcQt. 

 leg: 



mo'a ; mo. 

 ligament, transverse of foot (L. 

 trans, cruris and cruciatum 

 cruris) : 

 flail' win tea. 



[da, pertaining to foot 4- 

 uWtca.] 

 ligamentum nucha?; also muscles 

 of back of neck in man, etc. 

 mQ'ta. 

 linnet, pine (Chryffomctris pinus) : 

 i'ju pa oi ten aip. 



[i'jupa, coyote + oi tcu, bird 

 + aip, that which is made.] 

 This name is given because 

 this is supposed to be one 

 of the birds made by the 

 coyote, 

 liver: 



ni'wa. 

 lizard (Srelnporus. etc.) : 



po'ka ji. 

 lizard (Crolaphi/lus iccslci/enus. 

 and several other large 

 forms resembling it) : 

 sa'bi yats. 

 lizard, Gila monster (Ilelodcrma): 



tin'hu a. 

 lizard (large form iii<'Mtiono<l by 

 Indians, but not yet identi- 

 fie<l by me): 

 mu'kwi ta. 

 lf»cust, sliort-hdrned (general 

 tornj): 

 a'tOfiia'tlM. 



locust, black-winge<^l {Dissosteira 

 Carolina) : 

 ti'ba tsa rra kum bite. 



[ti'ba, pine-nuts + tsa'rra + 



kum + bttc] 

 The Goshutes say that this 

 locust shrills particularly 

 at the season when pine- 

 nuts are ripe, when it con- 

 tinually calls ti'ba, ti'ba, 

 ti'ba. Hence the name, 

 locust (several one-striped species 

 of Schistocerca) : 

 ba'nl sha. 

 locust, spotted form (species of 

 Ilippiscus): 

 so'ni a ttiii. 

 locust, dusky: 

 tu'a tun. 



[tu, from tu'o bit, black + 

 a'tun.] 

 loon {Colymbus torquatus) : 

 pam bun'. 



[Vid. water-strider.] 

 louse, head or body (general 

 term): 

 po'si a. 

 lung: 



siin'wa ; stlii'gwa ; stln. 



.M. 



magpie (Pica rtistica hiidsonica): 



kwi'to wo ya. 

 malar bone: 



so'ba dl ja rrufi. 

 mamma: 



bl'ji. 

 malleolus (internal and e.xternal): 



da'pon dza. 



[da, pertaining to the foot -f 

 pon'dza, protulx'iancc, etc.] 




92 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



mandible: 



a'rril pa ; a'rriip. 

 mantis, praying: 

 u'na dzi ta. 



[u, probably wood + na'clzi- 

 ta, cane, etc.] 

 marrow : 

 du'hu. 

 marten {Mustela americana) : 

 afi'go sail wa ; aii'go sail. 



[ai'i'go, timber + sau'wa. Cf. 

 mink.] 

 ma-stoid process or region : 



nSfi'go sa. 

 meadow lark (Sturndla neglecta) : 



i'ta. 

 merganser (Mergiis 7nerganser) : 

 pSn'gwi dl ka. 



[p&t't'gici, from pan givttc, fish 

 + di'ka, eater, etc.] 

 p&ii'gwi di ka ko kwa jo. 



[pdil'gwidika, as above + 

 ko'kwa jo, crest, head ap- 

 pendage, etc.] 

 mesentery : 



sa'si ga (Goship). 

 o'sa ni pwiip (Goshute). 

 milk: 



bl'ji. 

 millipc<le (juloid forms) : 

 tirn'pin wu a bi. 



[lim'pln, pertaining to rocks, 

 etc. + u'u'a bi, worm : thus. 

 rock-wonn.] 

 mink {Putarius vison) : 



pa'sau wa. 

 minnow : 



sai'p&fi gwltc. 



[sai, probably from saip, bul- 

 rush + pAfi'gwUc, fish.] 



mosquito (var. kinds) : 



mo'po. 

 mole: 



ta'kiim go iim bite (Goship). 

 [ta'ka, snow + m + go'iim. 

 possibly cutting or burrow- 

 ing about + bite; hence, 

 snow-burrowing animal.] 

 ta'ka mu di wants (Goshute). 

 ta'ka mo di bo tin (Goshute). 

 [ta'ka in each, snow, as in the 

 Goship.] 

 moose (Alces americana) : 

 kwi'pa rri a (Goship). 



[kwi, jirobably from root of 

 kwi'timp, lazy, slow + 

 pa' rri a, elk, etc.] 

 The name is given in refer- 

 ence to the animal's lack of 

 great speed, 

 tu'pa rri a (Goshute). 



[tu' , black + pa' rri a, elk.] 

 moth, general term (as Samia, 

 etc.): 

 I'pai bi. 

 moth, pupa of: 

 I'pai l)i ufi kar ni. 



[i'jKiihi, moth -|- un + kar'ni, 

 hou.se, nest.] 

 mons pubis: 

 ga'rri. 



mountain sheep (Ovis motitana) . 



(a) female: muts'eni hi a. 



(b) U]a.\o: du'ku. 



mourning dove {Zcnaithira caro- 

 lincnsis) : 



ai'wi. 

 moth, spliinx (Deilephila): 



a'ku mo go ru Itc. 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 



93 



mouse and rat kind in general 

 (Muridce, etc.): 

 to'Imp. 

 mouse (Mus) : 



po'nai. 

 mouse, fiokl : 

 kim'ba bo nai. 



[klrn'ba, spermophile + 

 po'nai, mouse.] 

 mouse, kangaroo : 



bai'a. 

 moustache: 



mo'tso;muts. 

 mouth : 



tim'pi ; timp. 

 tim'bl tci. 

 mucus, from nose: 

 mo'bi siiip. 



[mo'bi, nose + {bi'ship?}.] 

 mud-hen (RaUus) : 



sai'a;sai. 

 muscle, general term : 



rrok. 

 muscle, adductor hallucis, etc. : 

 da'ti ba na rrok. 



[da'tibana, sole of foot + rrok, 

 nuiscle.] 

 miLscle, biceps: 

 mau'wintc (Grjship). 

 ban'gwi (Goshute), 

 muscle, deltoid : 

 dzo'a rrok 



[dzo'fip, shoulder, + rrok. 

 muscle.] 

 muscles of forearm : 

 nui'tsi dan (Goship). 

 mau'wintc (Goshute). 

 muscle, gastrocnemius, etc. : 

 wi'tra rrok. 

 [ivUc, calf of leg + rrok, 

 muscle.] 



muscle, frontalis: 

 gai'bo rro lin. 



[gni'ba, e^'ebrow + rro'un.] 

 muscle, ma.sseter: 

 a'rriim yim a gin. 



[a'rrum, from a'rrupa, lower 

 jaw 4- y^tn, apparently rais- 

 ing + gin.] 

 muscle, orbicularis oris : 



?dl'ga tso kai. 

 muscle, pectoral : 

 nl'na rrok (Goship). 

 ylfi'ga rrok (Goshute). 



[nVnup (Goship) or yiii'up 

 (Goshute), sternum + rrok, 

 muscle.] 

 muscle, rectus abdominis, etc. : 

 wo'a rra (Goship). 



N. 



nares : 



mo'bin (lain. 



[mo'bln, pertaining to the 

 nose -I- dain, hole.] 

 na.sal bone: 



mo'bln dzo nip (Goship). 



[mn'bln. nasal 4- dzo'nXp, 

 bone.] 

 mu'tcflk (Goshute). 



[mu, from mo'bi, nose -f- 

 tcuk.] 

 navel : 



si'go. 

 neck : 



do'i timp. 

 nock, lower lateral region of: 



an'di wi a. 

 nerve : 



<lu'hu. 

 nt^t, bird: 

 no' tso ni. 




94 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



[no, from noi'ya, egg + 

 tso'ni, enclosure, something 

 surrounding, etc.] 

 night-hawk (Chordediles popetue 

 henryi) : 

 wai'biin ta. 

 nose: 



mo'bi. 

 nose, ala of : 

 mo'bi pa nl gin. 



[mo'bi, nose + pa'ni gin.] 

 nutcracker, Clarke's {Picicorvus 

 columbianus) : 

 to'a gQts. 

 nuthatch (.Sj'«(i) : 

 jo'gi- 



0. 



occiput : 



ga'tim bit. 

 orbit of eye : 

 bu'i ko i kin. 



[bu'i, eye + ko'i kin.] 

 oriole, Baltimore {Icterus galbula) : 

 mo'bi OS. 



[mo'bi, nose, in reference to 



conspicuous lx;ak.] 

 The same name is applied to 

 the grosbeck. 

 otter {L/utra canadensis) : 

 jjan'tsuk. 



[pan, atjuatic + tsuk.] 

 ovary: 



bai'hyu. 

 oviduct: 



bai'natli wok, 



[bai, from Ixii hyu, ovarj' + na 

 di wok, lube, cord.] 

 oyster: 



at (Ciosliip). 



Origin uncertain. 



wa'go (Goshute). 



[Same as clam, ica'go lin du rua 

 in full, or wa'go for short.] 



palate, soft ; uvula : 

 ai'gwan du a. 



[ai gwan, adj. form, meaning 

 protruding (cf. tongue) + 

 du'a.] 

 palate, hard : 

 a'ta ko (Goship). 

 mi'ta ko (Goshute). 

 palm of hand : 

 ma'ti ba na. 



[ma, pertaining to the hand, 

 ti'ba na.] 

 pancreas : 



ni'wan da ka wintc. 



[ni'wan, hepatic + da'ka 

 wlnlc, term used approxi- 

 mately as our word "sweet- 

 bread."] 

 parrot, poll: 



tai'bo de gwa gwi na. 



[tai'bo, white man + de'gwa, 

 talk + gwi'na, bird, eagle; 

 "white man's talkin? 

 eagle."] 

 patella : 

 dan'giit a mtl. 

 [dan'iip, knee.] 

 pelican (I^'lccanus trachyrhyn- 

 chus): 

 tu'ku. 

 penis : 

 wu. 

 pericardium: 

 bi'am bo a. 



[hi'am, cardiac 4- bo'a. skin, 

 envelope.] 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



95 



peritoneum : 

 sa'pa go na (Goship). 

 [sap, belly + go'na.] 

 phalanx of finger, first : 

 ma'tso ni. 



[ma, hand + tso'ni, bone, 

 probably bone adjacent to 

 hand.] 

 phalanx of finger, those beyond 

 first (together) : 

 na'ta wi a. 

 phalangid, harvestman (general 

 term): 

 an'ga so giints (Go-ship). 

 pa'rri a (Goshute). 

 [pa'rri a, elk.] 



The reference in the second 

 name is to the long legs, 

 "elk legs." 



phalarope, Wilson's (Steganopus 

 uilsoni) : 

 pa'na da komp. 

 pan't.si kwut (female), 

 placenta: 

 du'i noib. 



[du'i, from du'i tci, young one 

 + noib.'] 

 planarian (general term) : 

 ])an'di sij) a. 



[General term for various 

 atjuatic invertebrates. Cf. 

 Iljjdrophitus.] 

 plovfr: 



u'un g\vi wl ta. 



[Imitative.] See snipe. 



plover, ring-necked {^Egiiditis im- 

 p<ilnmiis) : 

 tu'pan dzo no, 



pornipino {Errtliiznn i jn.vin.tiins\ : 



vu'na; vfln. 



potato worm : 



ta'gti. 

 pubic region: 



bu'i sip. 

 puma {Felis concolor) : 



to'ga rro ka. 



toi'rrok. 



kwi'ni a rro ko bite. 



to'kwii tsi. 

 pupa of Phlegethonotus, etc. : 



bi'ji ma ku Ints. 



[6i7'. milk +'Jcu'itnts.] 

 pupW of eye : 



du'u. 



0. 



quill of feather: 

 ga'sa o rra. 



[ga'sa, wing, large feather + 

 o'rra, stalk.] 

 quill, porcupine: 

 yun'a ai gwo bi. 



[ijiin, porcupine + ai'givo hi, 

 to prick, tliat which pricks, 

 etc.] 



R. 



rabljit, jack {Lcpus caUotis): 

 kiim. 



This liarc was formerly a 

 chief dependence of the 

 Cioshutes for their animal 

 foo<l and for clothing. The 

 skins were, and to some 

 extent still are, cut into 

 strips, which were so rolled 

 into ropes that only fur wa-s 

 exj)ose<l. These were then 

 l)ound into blankets (k&m- 

 H-f g<i), or made into clothes 

 which are warm and verv 




96 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April. 



serviceable. It was the 

 custom to hold a grand 

 hunt ever}' year in Novem- 

 ber when great numbers of 

 hares were killed. In these 

 hunts the Goshutes were 

 often joined by Pahutes 

 and Pahvants. Cedar \'al- 

 ley was a favorite resort for 

 these hunts, 

 rabbit, cotton-tail (Lcpus sylva- 

 ticus) : 

 ta'bo; ta'bo kiim. 

 i'wa ta bo. 

 raccoon {Procyon lotor) : 

 na'tsa ko rra (Goship). 



[Name borrowed from the 

 Bannock.] 

 rat, Rocky Mountain {Xeatoma 

 cinerea) : 

 ka. 

 rattle, of rattlesnake: 

 to'go se ya gi nump. 

 [to'go, a rattlesnake + se yo- 

 gi nump, instrument for 

 making noise, etc.] 

 rib: 



a'ma ttimp (Goship). 

 pi'a ma tiimp (Gaship). 

 dzu'ni ma hau wa tiimp. 



[dzu'nip, bone + ma -\- hau 

 wa tump.] 

 robin {Turdus migralorius) : 

 su'i ku ko. 

 [Imitative.] 

 S. 



sacrum. 



bi'wo sa (Goship). 

 sage-hen (Centrocercus urophasia- 



n\i») 



wija. 



salamander {Amblystoma tigrinum, 

 etc.) : 

 pa'bo go na (Goship). 

 pa'bo go tci (Goshute). 



[pa, water + bo + either 

 go'na or go'td.] 

 salmon : 



tsa'pafi'gwitc. 



[tsa, to pull? + pdh'gwitc, fish.] 

 a'gai. 

 [In this sense borrowed from 

 Bannock. See whale for 

 usual significance in Go- 

 shute.] 

 sand-piper ( Tringoides macula- 

 rius) : 

 pa'na da kump ; pa'na da kum. 

 [pa, water + na'da, to run, 

 etc. + ho, probably with 

 force of around or about + 

 iimp.] 

 sand-piper (Tringa): 

 pa'na ni wa. 



scale, fi'^h : 



pSn'wItc tin da si a. 



[p&n'gicllc, fish + da'si a, 

 scale.] 

 scab, sheep, (Psoroptes): 

 ship'tin da si a. 



[ship, sheep + da'si a, scale, 

 flake, etc.] 

 scalp: 



pam'pi bu. 



[pam'pi, head + bu, skin.] 

 scapula : 



si'kwo tump. 

 scar or cicatrix : 



? go'ftn. 

 scorpion (general term) : 

 nl'na gwi pOts. 




190S. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



97 



seal: 



pi'a pan tsuk. 



[pi'iip, big + pan'tsuk, otter.] 

 Known to the Indians from 

 narrative and seen by some, 

 septum naris: 

 mo'bi sole. 

 [mo'bi, nose + sok, probably 

 a shortened form.] 

 mo'bi san ko. 



[mo'bi, nose + satYko, exten- 

 sion, partition.] 

 sheep : 

 ship. 



[From the English sheep.] 

 shell, in general: 

 bo'a. 

 [po, enclase, cover.] 



shell, of egg: 

 dzu'ni bo a. 



[dzu ni, from dzu'ritp, bone -|- 

 bo'a, shell, integument, etc.] 



shiner : 

 pu'i wa. 



[pu'i, ?duck + M'«.] 

 shore-lark {Ercmophila olpestris): 



t.si'do bi. 

 shoulder: 



gi'tci tea gin. 

 shrew (Sorex): 

 so'gwai wa. 



[fto'ktip, ground 4- ai'wa, 

 fawn, etc.] 

 shrimp, various kinds (as Gam- 

 ijuirxis) : 

 ma'sCi pafi'gwltc. 



[ma'su, cricket + pdiVgwJlc, 

 fi.^h.] 

 j^kin: 

 bu'a; bu. 



skull: 



pam'pi dzu nip. 



[pain'pi, head + dzu'nXp, 

 bone.] 

 skunk, great basin (Chincha occi- 

 dentals major) : 

 po'ni tits. 



[po'ni, stripe -t- iits.] 

 pi'a ka bo ni tits. 



[pi'iip, big -f- ka'bo ni iits;vid. 

 infra.] 

 skunk, small spotted : 

 ka'bo ni lits. 

 [ka' + po'ni Hts, skunk; vid. 

 supra.] 

 snail, various kinds : 

 tats'In kwi tdp. 

 [ta'tsi limp, stars + kicit'iip, 



excrement.] 

 Meteorites in this connection 

 are fancied as excreta fall- 

 ing from the stars, and ap- 

 pearing upon the earth as 

 snail-shells. It may be 

 noted that throughout the 

 Goshute and Goship ter- 

 ritory snail-shells are 

 abundant in deposits from 

 (lid Lake Boimeville and 

 over the hills, etc.. as well 

 as in ponds and streams, 

 snake, lilow (Bascanion con- 

 strictor) : 

 ko'ka. 

 snake, blue-racer: 



tin'ti wa rra. 

 snake {OpJtibalus prjrrhamelas) : 



ko'go; ko' go a. 

 snake, rattle- {Crolalus, var. 

 s|)ecies) : 

 to'go a. 




98 Jim 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



snake, water- {Eutania sirtolis) : 

 pa'o in go a. 



[pa'o hi, apparently pertaining 

 to water, floating, swimming 

 + go'a, snake, etc.] 

 snake, water- {Eutcenia eleganssiiid 

 macrotccniatum) : 

 pa'sin ko go. 



[pa'slil, penetrating or pass- 

 ing through water + ko'go.] 

 snake, general term (especially in 

 compomids) : 

 go'a; go. 



[The root go has here its force 

 of winding or bending, 

 moving in curs-ing path, 

 etc.] 

 snipe, American {Gallinago deli- 

 cata) : 

 wu'In gwi wl ta. 



[Imitative.] 

 i'jQ pa ba wo nQp. 



[i'jiipa, coyote + ha'wo na, 

 seemingly to ciy, call out, 

 etc. -t- up.] 

 The reference in the name is 

 to the calling out at dusk or 

 in night, hke the coyote, 

 snow-bird, Mexican {J unco cin- 

 ereus): 

 kai'ma. 

 ti'sa kai'ma. 

 [ti'sa, small + kai'ma. See 



.] 

 snow-bird Oregon (Junco hiemalis 

 oregonus) : 

 ta'ka mu tu nants. 



[Ui'ka, snow + mu'lu nants, a 

 general term. See under 

 humming-bird.] 

 The black jjatch over tlie 



heail of this bird, square 

 cut behind and suggesting 

 a head of black hair, is 

 accounted for by these 

 Indians in a mj^h which 

 represents the bird as hav- 

 ing descended on one side 

 from an Indian woman, 

 whose descendants were 

 changed into this form by 

 the coyote deity, 

 sole of foot : 

 da'tl ba na. 



[da, pertaining to the foot + 

 ti'ha na. Cf . palm.] 

 sparrow, Western song {Melospiza 



melodia, var. jallax) : 

 sparrow, yellow- winged (Coturni- 

 culus passennus, var. per- 

 pallidus) : 

 an'da witc. 

 sparrow, white-browed crown 

 {Zonotrichia leucophrys) : 

 yu'rra ba. 

 solpugid : 

 to'sa mtish. 



[to'sa, white -I- mush, prob- 

 ably from ma'su i.] 

 sow-bug {Oniscus, etc.) : 



mi'ta mfits. 

 spermophile (var. species of Sper- 

 mophilus) : 

 kim'ba. 

 spermophile, thirteen-lined : 

 ai'wa dzip. 



[ai'wa, fawn -I- dzip.] 

 spider (general term) : 



a'ni su tints, 

 spider, grass (Agalena) : 

 ? a'safi gots. 




IQOS.] 



XATCRAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



99 



spider-web : 



a'ni su tints a wa na. 



[a'ni su lints, spider -f wa'yia, 

 trap, etc.] 

 spleen : 



so'no (Goship). 

 wai'gwi (Goshute). 

 spur, of cock, etc. : 

 dau'wi yu. 



[da, pertaining to the foot 4- 

 wi'yu, needle, etc.] 

 squirrel, flying (Vohicella) : 



pa'ko In. 

 squirrel, ground : 



See spennophile. 

 squirrel, gray (Sciurus) : 



tsi'kwits. 

 squirrel, brown j^ine: 



an'go wa t.-^i rrl gi (Goship). 

 [an'go, timber + ica'tsi rri gi, 

 referring to springing, leap- 

 ing, etc.; "pine or timber 

 leaper" is the effect of the 

 compound.] 

 sternum : 



an'go sai wi (Goshute). 

 nin'fip (Goship). 

 yin'up (Gosiiute), 

 stink-bug, gray form, found on pine 

 (species?) : 

 ti'ba mu gu ru Itc. 

 [ti'ba, pine-nut + mxi'gu ru lie] 

 stomach : 



sc'gwa bi. 

 stone-fly : 



kwa'tsa wu pu ru Itc, 

 kwa'tsa i pu ru Itc. 

 styloid process of ulna : 

 ma'pon dza. 



[nut, hand 4- ynu'dzn. See 

 malleolus. 1 



sucker : 



tu'ktim pail witc. 



[tu'kum + pfin'wltc, fish.] 

 superciliary ridge: 

 bu'i tin go. 



\hu'i tin, pertaining to the eye 

 + go, ridge, angle, etc.]. 

 sw^allow, or martin, bank and 

 barn : 

 pa'sa gom l)i. 

 swallow, wood : 



wo' vim pa sa gom bi. 



[wo'vlm, pertaining to wood 

 -1- pa'sa gom bi.] 

 swan (Cygnus) : 

 ni'wa dam pa. 

 swim-sac of fish : 

 pa'su a. 



T. 

 tadpole : 



pau'wi to ga. 

 pa'na wi tcGt. 

 tail: 

 g^va'shi. 



[gwa, to extend out from, etc. 

 -I- shi.] 

 tanager. Cooper's or Western 

 summer refl-i)ird {Pijranga 

 a^stiva cooper i): 

 Jln'ka hui tcu. 



[(lii'ka, from diYka bfi, rcil + 

 hu'i tcu, bird.] 

 tanager, criinson-hea<kxl (Py- 

 rarujd luiloviciana): 

 wu'tsi kl gi . 



It is said i)y (u)shutes tliat the 

 young of this binl are 

 easily reare<l, and that the 

 Indians fonnerly reare<l 

 then) and kept them cagctl 

 as jwts. 




100 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



tape-womi (Taenia, etc.) : 



si'wa. 

 tarantula {Eurypclma hentzii) : 

 pi'a na su Gnta. 



[pi'up, big + a'na su tints, 

 spider.] 

 haii'wi tu go b!tc. 

 tear (from eye) : 



to'paip. 

 teeth (in general) : 



damp, 

 teeth, of upper jaw: 

 mo'tsin dam pa. 

 [mo'tsln, apparently pertain- 

 ing to the upper jaw (cf. 

 mo'tso, moustache) + 

 dam' pa, damp, teeth.] 

 teeth, of lower jaw : 

 a'rron kodam pa. 



[a'rron, from arrup. lower 

 jaw 4- ko + dam' pa, 

 teeth.] 

 tendo-achille.s: 

 wi'tca rriimp (Goship). 



[witc, calf of leg + rrn + 

 ump.] 

 da'pin dam (Goshute). 



[da'pin, pertaining to the 

 foot + dam, tendon.] 

 tendon (general term) : 



da'ma;dan). 

 tendon.s (extensor.-^ digitorum of 

 foot): 

 dau'wi a ta. 



[da, pertaining to the foitt + 

 wi'a la.] 

 tcndoas of niusrlcs of front of 

 forearm (as of hrachio-radia- 

 lis, flexor carpi radialis, 

 etc.): 

 mau'win darn. 



[ma, the hand + icln, prob- 

 ably to raise up + dam, 

 tendon.] 

 tent-caterpillar: 

 pu'hi wa bi. 



[pu'hi + ica'bi, worm.] 

 I tern, common (Sterna hirundo) : 

 pi'wa ga (Goship). 

 pu'i wa ga (Goshute). 



[waga. from im'f/asnf/o , forked . 

 refers to the forked tail. 

 Pu'i, in second term, duck 

 (probably); pi, abbrevi- 

 atetl form.] 

 testes : 

 noi'ya. 

 dau'wi. 

 thigh: 



bun'iip. 

 throat : 

 go'Its. 

 thumb: 

 ma'to ga. 

 [wa, hand + to'ga.'] 

 thymus: 



bi'hin da ka bintc. 

 [bi'hin, cardiac -I- da ka 

 ptntc. See spleen.] 

 thyroid: 



a'rriin da kam l)Intc. 



[a'rrun, tracheal -1- da'kam- 

 plittc, "sweetbread."] 

 tibia; shin = : 

 gots'tl na. 

 go'tsi an. 

 o'ts'em bi a. 

 tick, wood : 



mi'tat.^^. 

 toad (liufo coliimhianus, etc.): 

 san'ko wa go. 



[s(tri'ko, wart + wu'yo, frog.] 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



101 



toad-fish : 

 pa'tson. 



[pa, water + tson.] 



toe: 

 dan'kwo. 

 do'kwo. 

 da'so gi. 



[(hi. pertaining to the foot + 

 kwo, or so'gi.] 

 toe, great (hallux) : 

 pi'a rro to ga. 



[pi' lip, hig + rro' toga.] 

 toe. great, ba-sal joint of: 



do'nai. 

 tonsil, pharyngeal : 

 ai'go yem bit, 



[ai'go, tongue, that which pro- 

 trudes + yem'bli.] 



tongue : 

 ai'go. 



[ai, to bring forth, shoot or 

 spring out, etc. -I- go.] 

 tooth. See teeth, 

 trachea : 



oi'rrCln. 

 trout (Solmo virginalis, etc.) : 

 toi'ya pan gwltc. 



[tni'yn, from (oi'yabi, moun- 

 tain 4- pdn'u'ltc, fisji.] 

 tsa \)&h witc. 



[taa, to i)ull -f- pAnu'Ur, fish. 

 See salmon.] 

 turkey {Mcleagris gallipavo) : 

 ku'i nit (Cioship), 

 ku'yi na ((Joshute). 

 turkey buzzard (Cathartrs aura): 

 wo'gom bite. 



tympanum of ear: 

 nafi'kn <|a. 



U. 



umbilical curd : 

 si'go na di wok. 



[si'go,nsL\e\ + lui'diwok, cord, 

 tube.] 

 ureter : 

 da'ki po na di wok. 



[da'kipo, kidney -I- na'di wok.] 

 urethra : 



si'na di wok. 



[si, from sip or si mo guts, 

 urinary bladder 4- na'di- 

 wok, cord or tube.] 

 urethra, part of in penis: 

 wu'Im na di wok. 



[wn'un, pertaining to the 

 penis + tia'diwok, tube, 

 cord.] 

 urethra, external orifice of in 

 male: 

 wu'Im bai shu. 

 urethra, external orifice of in 

 female : 

 wun'gi. 

 urine : 

 sip. 

 uterus : 

 no'Ib. 



vagina; vulva: 



o'a tai. 

 vagina, externarorifice of: 

 dai'dain. 



[Probably dm', from o'atai, 

 vagina + dnin, orifice, 

 hole.] 

 vas deferens: 



noi'ya na di wok. 



[iwi'ifn, testis 4- na'di wok, 

 conl.] 




102 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



vertebra : 



tso'ni gwai limp. 



[tso'nip, bone + gwai'iawp. 

 back.] 

 vertebral column: 

 gTAai'o rra. 



\gwm. from gicai' ump, back 

 + o'rra. trunk, stalk, etc.] 



W. 



wasp (general term) : 



paiVa. 

 wasp, thread-waisted ; mud- 

 dauber : 

 so'go bi tuts. 



[so'kup, eartli + bi'tuts. Cf. 

 horn-tail.] 

 wasp-nest : 



pai'yam na kar ni. 



[pai'ya, wasp + m + kafni, 

 house.] 

 water-ouzel. See dipper, 

 water-st rider (H ygrotrechus) : 

 pam bun'. 



[pam, aquatic 4- bufi, the root 

 of which means here to 

 float.] 

 wattles, of fowl : 

 &iVka gi Qp. 



[ArYka, from dnka bit, red + 

 gi'up, jiortaining to the 

 mouth or throat.] 

 weasel (Putonus longicoiula) : 



pa'bi tci. 

 wart : 



dzi'a. 

 wart on hand : 

 ma'tzi a. 



[ma, hand 4- tzi'n.] 



wart on face : 

 go'bi tzi a. 



[go'bi, face + tzi'a.] 

 whale : 

 a'gai. (Cf. Bannock a'gai, sal- 

 mon.) 

 The Goshutes and Goships 

 more particularly identify 

 the whale with certain 

 great aquatic animals said 

 by them to have lived 

 formerly in Utah Lake. 

 The}'' have stories concern- 

 ing numerous adventures 

 with this creature, and tell 

 of the loss of many Indians 

 caught afloat and swal- 

 lowed by the a'gai. In one 

 tale the victim cuts through 

 wall of stomach and body 

 and escapes with his life, 

 white of eye : 

 to'sa kiii wai bi. 



[to'sa, from to'sa bit, white + 

 kXn wai hi.] 



widgeon. American, or bald-pate 

 (Atms amcricana) : 

 pa'o Gm bu i. 



[pa'o hn, aquatic, frequenting 

 water + bu'i, duck.] 

 wildcat (Lynx rufus) : 



tu'ku bite, 

 wing: 



ga'sa gQnt ; ga'sa. 

 wolverine (Gido borcalis) : 



wo'ni. 

 woodchuck {Arctomys ynoiuix): 



ya'ha. 

 woodcock (I'liiln/tcld fninor) : 

 i'ju pa mo na pa. 



[i'jiijKi, coyote -f- mo'Tiapa.] 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



103 



The name is given from a 

 mj'th according to which 

 these birds are descended 

 from the coyote deity's 

 daughter, 

 wood pecker, ivory-billed : 

 o'pi do na. 



[o'pi, wood + do'na. to stab, 

 to peck.] 

 woodpecker, red-shafted, or 

 flicker (Colaptes mexi- 

 canus) : 

 ko'rra wats. 

 ko'rri mats, 

 worm, general term : 



wa'bi ; wu'a bi. 

 wolf, gray {Cams lupus) : 

 I'sha. ' 



(Identified in a way with the 



ancestral deity of the Go- 

 shutes and Goships.) 

 wren, Bewick's {Thryothorus 

 bewicki) : 

 tim'pi tam pi a wa. 

 wren, Western house {Troglodytes 

 domesticus parkrruitini) : 

 tu'Im pin tci rrltc (Goship). 

 tu'Im pin tci rrti (Goshute). 

 wrist : 



mau'wi to gan. 

 [ma, hand + ici to gan.] 



X. 



xiphoid or xiphisternum : 

 yin'gi po niimp. 



[yin'gi, referring to the ster- 

 num + po + niimp.] 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



ON THE CLASSIFICATION OF SCALPELLIFORM BARNACLES. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



The genus Scalpellum as at present limited is more numerous in 

 species than any other genus of Cirripedes, comprising about 170. 

 Since nearly all of them live in rather deep water, and only small areas 

 of the sea bottom beyond the 100-fathom line have been thoroughly 

 explored, we have reason to believe that their number will be vastly 

 augmented by future investigation. 



The species now known are very unequally related. Up to the year 

 1907 not much progress had been made towards a natural cla.ssification, 

 although the "key" constructed by Dr. P. P. C. Hoek for the arrange- 

 ment of the Challenger species was a stride in that direction. In 1907 

 two attempts were made to group the species more naturally, and to 

 indicate their phylogenetic relations. Dr. Hoek* and the present 

 writer' independently and almost simultaneously proposed to split 

 Scalpellum into a number of subgeneric groups. The two essays were 

 based upon antipodal material, Dr. Hoek's upon East Indian, my own 

 upon American forms. Some divergence in the view taken of the 

 comparative value of characters would be expected ; yet the points of 

 agreement are so numerous that one may entertain the idea of attain- 

 ing an approximately natural arrangement by uniting the best features 

 of the two classifications. 



Hoek's studies have illumined the more primitive groups so richly 

 represented in the East — forms inadetjuately represented in the col- 

 lections I had studied. On the other hand, the material before me 

 demonstratecJ, I think, that the form of the carina has little value in 

 classification. Groups baseti upon the structure of this plate I believe 

 to be heterogeneous. I was first led to this conclusion by an exami- 

 nation of the species composing the group of Scalpellum stroemii, as 

 assembled in my report on the barnacles of the \ational Museum. 

 These forms agree so completely in the total structure that it is quite 

 impossible to doubt their close relationship, yet the carina varies 



' Siboga-ExpeditU, Cirripedia Pedunculate, p. .IS. October, 1907. 

 » HuUetin 60, U. H. National Museum, p. 71 . Noveinher 9, 1007. 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



105 



by insensible degrees from simply arched with apical umbo to angular 

 with the umbo remote from the apex. 



In the group of Scalpellum scalpellum and the group of *S. diceratum 

 there is similar variation in the carina, yet one cannot doubt that the.^e 

 are natural groups. These and other like instances show that, to 

 rank the shape of the carina, whether simply bowed or angular, as a 

 character of the first importance, is to oppose it to the evidence of 

 all the rest of the organism. In Scalpellutn stcanisi I find that the 

 umbo of the carina is ver>' close to the apex in cjuite young individuals, 

 becoming more remote with age; hence the angular shape of the carina. 



Fig. 1. — Types of tlie Sralpi-Iliform genera : a, h. Cahinlirn rillosa; c, d, Smiliutn 

 neroTiii; e, f. EuKcal/Hllum rotflrnlutii; p, li, Snil/Hllitui srnlfHllum; i, j, Scalfnl- 

 hitn (Araisnil/Klhnn) rilulinuvi. r|)i)er line males (vrry imich j-nlarped); 

 lower line liennaphrodites or females. Tiie figures are .somewliat diapram- 

 niatie; rarinal side of all toward.s the right, .s.c, subearina ; c.l., earinal latus. 



being a feature ac(|uired late in the ontogeny of the individual, ha.s 

 probably been a.-^sunRnl (»nly recently in the evt»lution of the groui)S. 



These considerations teach, I think, that an angular carina hit«< been 

 independently ac(iuircd by unrelated species of many phyla. It can- 

 not !)c consi(lere<l a criterion of relationship. 



Another character which ha.'^ not received due weight in taxonomy 

 i.** the morj)hology (»f the cf)mplementan* males, l-'onncr clas-^ifica- 

 tions have been ba.'^etl solely upon the hermaphriKJite or female f<irni, 

 which ha.'* been far les.s diverselv m«Klified than the male. When we 




106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



drop as misleading the arrangement of species according to the shape 

 of the carina, it appears at once that the structure of the little males 

 is wonderfully correlated with certain features of the hermaphrodites, 

 especialh' the development of a subcarina. The least specialized males 

 belong to hermaphrodite forms which are known b,y morphological and 

 paliEontological evidence to be old generalized types. The most 

 modified males are those of the highly evolved hermaphrodite or female 

 forms. A classification fully supported by both sexes surely rests 

 upon a broader base than one ignoring the males. 



Classification of Scalpelliform Barnacles. 



I. Male having six jointed cirri and a mouth, 3 to 6 valves, and a more 



or less distinct peduncle. Female or hermaphrodite always 



having a subcarina. Unpaired valves never fewer than 3. 



a. Male with 6 well-developed valves, and distinctly divided into 



capitulum and peduncle. Female or hermaphrodite with 13 



valves (sometimes 14 by addition of a subrostrum, or 15 



when another pair of latera is added). 



b. No plate interposed below the tergum between scutum and 



carina Genus Calantica Gray. 



b'. An upper lateral plate interposed between scutum and 



carina, Genus Smilium Gray. 



a\ Male with 3 valves and an oblong capitulum hardly differ- 

 entiated from the peduncle. Female and hermaphrodite 

 with 15 valves, three pairs of lower latera and an upper 



latus, Genus Elscalpellum Hoek. 



II. Male oval or sack-like, without mouth or peduncle, the alimentary 

 .'system and cirri being vestigeal ; plates wanting, or very small 

 scuta and terga may be present. Female or herma])hro(lite 

 never having a sul)carina. Plates 14, or 13 by suj^pression of 

 the rostnmi. there being a pair of upper latera and three pail's 

 of lower latera. Never more than 2 unpaireil plates, 



Genus Scalpellum Leach. 



Genus CALANTICA Gray. 



Calantica Gray, Annal.s of Pliil<>s(i])liv, ii. scr., X, 182.5, p. 101, for Scal- 

 pellum villoHum Liach. Pilsliry, hull. 60, U. S. Nat. Mas., 1907, p. 8. 



In Calantica then* are but three paii-s of latera, all l)a.'<al. All the 

 plates have apical umbones, a.s in Mitcllo. There are therefore 13 

 valves, or sometimes 14 by addition of a subrostrum. The comple- 

 niental male lui-s a di.stinct capitulum with G large valves. Type .S. 

 inllosum Feach (fig. \,a, b). There are two groups (if species. 



Oriental Group — Calantica s. str. 



C. villosa (I.,each). East Indies? 



C.'trispinosn (Hoek). Sulu Sea. S2-102 fathf>ms. 



C. cos (Pilsbr>')- Japan, 71 fathoms. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



North Atlantic Group— yScillcelepas Seguenza : 



Besides a few living, species, this group includes numerous tertiary 

 and mesozoic forms from European horizons, mostly descrijjed as 

 Pollicipes. It was evidently . a group developed in the mesozoic 

 Xorth Atlantic basin, at that time cut off from the Southern Ocean. 



C. calyculus ( (Aurivillius). Azores. 850-900 raetei-s. 



C. falcata (Aurivillius). Azores, 454 metei-s. 



C. g'em7na( Aurivillius). Greenland, 1800 meters. 



C. superba (Pilsbry). Southeastern Unite<l States, .352-440 fathoms. 



C. grimaldi (Aurivillius). Azores. .S45-1 .230 metei-s. 



Genus 8MILIUM Gray. 



Smilium Grav. Annals of Pliilosopliy, n. scr., X, 182.5, p. 100, for S. peronii, 

 Pilsbrv, liull. 60, U. S. Nat. -Mus." p. 13, exclusive of division aaFroo- 

 Hcalfwllum Hoek, .Siboga-Expeditie, Cirripedia, 1907, p. 58 (for S. polli- 

 cipedoides, .S. aries, S. acutum). 



In this group a median pair of latera lies between the scutum and carina. 

 There are 3 or 4 pairs of latera in all. 13 or 15 plates. Otherwise both 

 sexes are similar to Calantica. In a few species {peronii, uncus) the 

 carina is angular, but in others it has an apical umbo. Most of the 

 known species are Indo-Pacific. Type .S. peronii Oray (fig. 1, c, d). 



Dr. Hoek's group Proloscalpcllum, of which I take S. poll icipcdo ides 

 to be the type, differs from Smilium chiefly by having an additional 

 pair of latera in the type species. .S. pollicipcdoides is interesting from 

 its tendency toward nmltiplication of basal latera, whidi Dr. Hoek 

 has discu.s.se<l with his accustomal insight. 



Smilium and Calantica might without great violence be miitcHJ as 

 subgenera of a single more comprehensive genus, yet I think the eU^ 

 vation of a pair of latera above the basal whorl to the pcKsition of 

 "upper latera" is a morphological advance worthy of l)eiiig signalizcnl 

 by generic distinction. In other charactei-s the two groups an- almost 

 identical. The complemcntal males arc alike. 



*S. peronii Gray. S. sexcornutum (I'ilsbry.) 



S. uncus (Iloek). .S. scorpio (Aurivillius). 



S. pollicipcdoides (Hoek). »S. acutum (lioek). 



S. aries (Hoek). S. longirostrum (Gruvel). 



Genux EU8CALPELLUM U .W. 



KuKcnljirllum llrM'k, in part. Sil>()>tH-K\p<<litif. (irriiKdia. VMM. |' '■'. ""■ 

 ScdljMllum roslrtitum, ]>rroni, uncus and alntrntii. 



This genu.H difTers from those prece<ling chiefly by the more degener- 

 ate males, which arc rather sack-like, not di.'itinctly dividc«l into 




108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



capitiUum and peduncle, and have only three valves, the scuta being 

 larger than in Scalpellum. A subcarina is always j^resent. The 

 inframetiian latera have a peculiar square shape, and are quite large. 

 There are 4 pairs of latera in all, therefore 15 valves (a number never 

 reached in Scalpellum, which has no subcarina). The rostrum is very 

 large and prominent. The carina has a submedian umbo in the first 

 two species, apical in the others. Type 6'. rostratum Darwin (fig. 1, e, 

 /). Species four or five. 



Dr. Hoek selected no type for his group Enseal pel I urn. and I have 

 therefore taken his first species as typical. The characters and lim.its 

 of the group are also much modified, since I place no weight upon the 

 shape of the carina, but emphasize the structure of the male, the 

 presence of a subcarina, etc. 



E. rostratum (Darwin). Malay archipelago. 



E. renei (Gruvel). St. Paul de Loanda. 



E. bengalense (Annandale). Bay of Bengal, 98-102 fathoms. 



E. stratum (Aurivillius). Antilles. 



£^.(?) squamulijerum (Weltner). Indian Ocan. 3200 metei"s. 



Genus SCALPELLUM Leach. 

 Scalpellum Leach, Journal de Pliysiiiuc, etc., I-XXXA', 1S17, p. (iS. 



The males are very degenerate, sack-liko. witiiout a peduncle or 

 mouth, the cirri vestigeal, valves absent or extremely small. The 

 female or hermaphrodite ha.s no subcarina (thereby differing from all 

 the preceding genera); upper latera are always present, and three 

 pairs of lower latera; rostrum is comj)aratively small or absent. The 

 position of the umbo of the carina varies from submedian to apical. 

 Plates 14, or when the rostrum is absent lo.^ Type S. scalpellum L. 

 (fig. l.f/,/0. 



Scalpellum is morphologically the highest or most modifie<l member 

 of its family, both In' the profoundly degenerate males and the advanced 

 type of armor of tjie hermaphrodites or females. Primarily the genus 

 divides into two subgcneric groups, as follows: 



a. Inframeflian latus large, pentagonal (or with the angles romided), 

 wulr throuf/liout, the umbo varying: from submedian to l)asal, 

 or on tlic rostral border, neverapical. Subgenus Sc(il])ellums.str. 



a'. Inframetiian latus generally smaller than thcother latera. triangular, 

 hour-glas-s-siiaijed or irregular. Subgenus Arcoscalpcllum Hock. 



* Tlip mpfp number of plat(>8 in the rnpituhun is not csperially significant, snnce 

 the same niiinlwr may Iw i)r<wnt in (lifTcrcnt p'Mcra, l>ut made up (»f morpiio- 

 loirirallv different plates, as in the ciwe of I.'J-vaived species of SrnljH-lhim and 

 CalarUifa. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHIL.\DELPHIA. 109 



The restricted subgenus Scalpellum Is undoubtedly a natural group, 

 well characterized by the development of a large inframe<lian pair of 

 latera. The umbones of the carina and scutum are frequently removed 

 from the apices of those plates, but this is a variable character. 

 Two species, .S'. inerme Annandale and S.patagonicum Gruvel.have the 

 plates imperfectly calcifietl. The following species belong here: 



Group of S. scalpellum: 



S. stearnsi Pilsbry. S. patagonicum Gruvel. 



S. inerme Annandale. S. gibbum Pilsbry. 



S. calcaratum Aurivillius. S. gibberum Aurivillius. 



S. fuimatum Sars. S. ornatum (Gray). 



S. scalpellum (Linne)- '*>• salartuc Gruvel. 



Group of S. calijornicum : 

 S. calijornicum Pilsbry. S. osseum Pilsbry. 



Group of S. stroemii: 



S. stroemii Sars. S. s. latirostrum Pilsbry. 



S. s. obesum Aurivillius. S. pressum Pilsbry. 



S. s. luridum Aurivilius. S. groenlandicutn Aurivillius. 



»S'. s. aduncum Aurivillius. S. angustum Sars. 



S. s. seplentrionale Aurivillius. S. nymphocola Hoek. 



S. s. substroemii Pilsbry. S. cornutum Sars. 



Subgenas Arcoscalpellum Hoek. 



All of the other species described as Scalpellum form a group sj^s- 

 tematically eciuivalent to the restricted subgenus Scalpellum, but the 

 great number of specie-s, including .several phyla with degenerate, partly 

 chitinous plates, may make it expedient to recognize several sections 

 by name. 



Arcoscalpellum Hoek,* tj-pe .S. velulinum Hock (fig. 1, i, j), includes 

 all of tlie species of Sections IV and V of my paper on National .Mu.seum 

 Harriaclos. pp. 25 to 6<S, and all of those included in Arcoscalpellum in 

 Hock's Siboga report, pp. 85 to 120, besides vari(jus other allieii forms, 

 previously known, which need not be enumerate<l here. 



There is a distinct tendency in certain forms (»f Arcoscalpellum 

 towards the evolution of a phylum which will have only eleven plates, 

 by elimination of the inframe<lian latera. In barnacles of the group of 



* Arcoacalpfllum is exactly equivalent to floloHcalprllum Pils.. Bull. 60, f 

 Mus., p. 25, publinhed a few tlaya later than H<x'k'H work. 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Scalpellum auriviUii these latera are very much reduced, and in some 

 cases are displaced, h'ing free over the adjacent rostral latus, which 

 actually comes in contact Mith the carinal latus.* The considerable 

 number of species showing this reducting of the inframedian latera 

 gives ground for the belief that an 11-valved type of Scalpellum will 

 eventually be evolved, if indeetl it does not already exist. 



The following groups with partially calcified valves have been 

 derived from the Arcoscalpellum stock. 



The section MesoscaIpcUu7n Hoek, type S. javanicum Hoek, consists 

 of partially calcified barnacles which are shown by their ontogeny, 

 now known pretty fully in a few forms, to be descended from fully 

 calcified forms of Arcoscolpellum, like *.S. idioplax or S. carinatum. 

 The evidence at hand indicates the existence of several collateral lines, 

 probably derived from as many normal species, so that the group is a 

 polyphyletic one. The early i)ost-larval stages in at least two species, 

 which I have worked out and figured (»S'. larvale and S. japonicum), 

 are indistinguishable from Arcoscalpellum. 



Mesoscalpellum will include, for the present, besides the forms 

 describetl in Hoek's Siboga report, the group of S. intermedium (S. 

 intermedium, S. nipponense, S. la€cadivicum),the group of S. japonicum, 

 the group of S. larvale, and that of S. gruveli (S. gruveli, S. imperfectum, 

 S. sancUvbarbara;). 



The section Neoscalpellum Pilsbr}', type .S'. dicheloplax, contains the 

 most modified of the imperfectly calcifie<^l forms. — bizarre, skeleton- 

 like creatures with all the paire<l plates reduced to narrow, diverging 

 rami. 



The early stages are not known, but half-grown indivifluals show an 

 approximation to the condition of adults of the S. japonicum group, 

 so that a common origin is probable, and it may be found superfluous to 

 retain Neoscnlpflhim, as a separate section. The species are widely 

 scattered geographically, and all inhabit al)ysmal depths. 



S. edrvardai Gruvel. Azores, 4,255 meters. 



S. dicheloplax Pilsbrj'. (JfT Eastern United States, 1525-1544 fathoms. 



S. phnnlasmn l'ilsbr>'. < )fT California, 211)0 fathoms. 



,S. marginatum Hoek. Off \ew Guinea, 5040 fathoms. 



The nearly simultaneous publication of some 32 new species of 

 Scalpellum by Dr. Hoek and 38 by myself, in 1907, has resulted in 



• Sec BuU. 60, U. S. \aL Mus., p. G'), fig. 20. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



several homonjTiis. Two species require new names. Both belong 

 to the subgenus Arcoscalpellum. 



Scalpellam chiliense n. n. 



Scalpellum grocile Klsbrv, Bull. 60, U. S. Xat. Mils., p. 60. fip. 23 (Xovember 

 9, 1907). Not S. gracile Hoek, Siboga-Rxpeditie, Cirri pedia Pedunculata, 

 p. 105, PI. 8, fig. 8 (October, 1907). 



Scalpellam bellam n. n. 



Scalfxllum jormosum Pilsbry, Bull. 60, U. S. Xat. Mus., p. 58, fig. 22 (Novem- 

 ber 9, 1907). Not S. jormosum Hoek, Siboga-Expeditie, Cirripedia 

 Pedunculata, p. 110, PI. 8, figs. 11, 11a (October, 1907). 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



GENERIC TYPES OF NEAECTIC REPTILIA AND AMPHIBIA. 

 HV AKTHL'K ERWIX BKUWN. 



By the adoption of the new Article 30 of the International Zoological 

 Code at the Boston meeting of the seventh Congress in August, 1907, 

 the methods of nomenclature are brought measurably nearer to 

 luiiformity: perhaps as near as is possible under any set of rules, for 

 it must always be true of inelastic rules — and fortunate that it is so — 

 that they cannot excuse the individual from the exercise of independ- 

 ent judgment in cases such as those where diverging oj)inions may 

 fairly be held as to their application. Absolute agreement is not 

 likely to be reached until, in respect of the past, names themselves 

 are formally adopted by general accord, instead of rules. 



So completely representative a body as the International Zoological 

 Congress having unanimously adopted the new Article, the way is 

 made easy for the minority of zoologists who are dissenters as to some 

 of its provisions, for they may now be willing to yield their practice 

 to so great a preponderance of opinion in matters which are those onl}' 

 of convention. 



For this reason the Code is here followed in all e-ssential details, even 

 to the acceptance of undefined genera, such as those of Fitzinger in 

 the System Reptiliu?}}. in place of others whicli in the author's own 

 opinion have a better claim to be preferred. But it is not now profit- 

 able to discuss the question. 



For most of the genera here inchided types have been ascertaine<l 

 from time to time a-^ nece-ssity required, but the whole list has now 

 been re%Tsed in accordance with the present rule. 



Xo full synonymy of the genera has been attempted, the names 

 cited as equivalents being only those that have been in recent use for 

 the whole or a part of the contents of the one adopted. 



RFITIIJA. 



The name was first ased by Laurent i (176.S) for his three divisions, 

 (I) Sfilienlifi, (II) Graflicntin, (III) Strpcntri^, and included all reptiles 

 and amphibian-s. The correct limits r)f the class were first laid down 

 by Gray (Annals of Philosophy, (2), 10, p. 194, 1S25). 




1908] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



CROCODILINI. 



First separatetl as a distinct order, under this name, by Oppel 

 {Ord. and Fam. Rept., p. 19, ISll). By Linnaeus they were placed in 

 his genus Lacerta. By Laurenti in Gradicntia with lizards and tailed 

 amphibians. By most other early authors under "sauriens" or 

 saurii, usually with lizards. "Emydosauriens" was used by Latreille 

 (1801) and Blainville (1816). This was Latinized into Emydosanria 

 by Gray (1825). Loricata Merrem (1820) was used twenty-eight years 

 earlier for a subdivision of edentate mammals by Vicq. d'Azyr {Syst. 

 Anfit. des Anim., 1792). 



Crooodilns Laur. (Syst. Uept.. p. 53. 1768). 



Type by tautonomy Crocodilus niloticus Laur. ( = Lacerta croco- 

 ditus Lirm. jjart.). 



Alligator ruvier (,\nn. .Iu .Mu-i'e. X. !>. 63, 1807). 



Type by elimination Crocodilus lucius Cuv. (= Crocodilus missis- 

 sippicnsis Daudin). 



TESTUDiXATA. 



Oppel (Ord. and Fnm. Rcpt., p. 3, 1811). Turtles were place<^l in the 

 genus Tesludo by Linna?us. They were not mentioned by Laurenti, 

 According to Dr. Stejneger they were nameil Testudines by Batsch 

 (1788). They were called "cheloniens" by Brongniart, Daudin and 

 Cuvier. Chilonii by Latreille {Hist. Nat. des S(damandres dc France, 

 etc., p. xi, 1800) and Dum^ril (1806). Cataphracta Link (1807). Dr. 

 Stejneger properly objects to the use of the mere plural of the generic 

 terms Testudo and Chrlonia, an<l accepts ( )ppers name rather tlian 

 resurrect the obscure Cfdaplirarta Link, four yeai"s earlier. 



ATHECE. 



DERMOOHELID^. 

 Dermochelyi Hlain 'Hull Sue. I'hilom., isi6, j.. iii). 



This genus wa.s basc<l upon the "tortue a cuir" (= Tcstudo coriacea 

 Linn.). 



— Sphargi.i .Mrrroin (1820), same type. 



THECOlMIoKA. 

 CHELYDRID^. 

 Cbelydra Hchweig. (Pro<l.. p. 23, 1814). 



Monotype Tcslwlo serpentina Linn. 



— Chelonurti n«'ininK ns2'J). Same type. 



8 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Maoroolemmys Gray (Cat. Sh. Hei)t., I, p. 48, 1855). 



Monotype Chdonura temminckii Holh. 

 = Mdcrnchclys Gray (185(5). Same type. 



CINOSTERNID^. 

 CinoBtemam Spix (.S|)ec. Nov. Te^^t.. p. 17, 1824). 



Foun(le<l iipr)n Kinostcrnan longicnudatum and K. hrcvicaudatum. 

 Both being synonyms of Trsfmln srorpioides Linn., the genus is mono- 

 typic. 



> Thijroxlerninu Aga.s.s. (1S57). Type Cinot^termnn pennsyl rani cum. 



> Plafijtfvjra Aga.'^i'. (1857). Typo Cinoslernum florescens. 



Sternothoerus Gray (Ann. of Philos., 1825, p. 193). 



Type by ehmination S. odoralus Daudin. Also by designation of 

 I-ltzinger {Syst. RcpL, p. 29, 184:]). 



Stemothcerus as cited by Gray from Bell's manuscript contained S. 

 odorata and S. pennsylranica. The last belonging strictly to Cino- 

 stcmum Spix, odorata becomes the type. This use of the name ante- 

 dr.tes by a short time Sternothoerus Bell {Zool. Jour., 11,305, 1825). 

 Aromochehjs Gray (1855) also has odorata for tyj)e. 



TESTUDINIDuE. 

 Chryiemys Gray (Cat. Tort., p. 27, 1H44). 



Founded on Emys picta Schweig. and E. belli Gra>'. Gray retained 

 pida as the type {Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., 1869, p. 191). 



> PseudemijH Gray (185.5). Typo Fseudcmns concinnn. 



> Plychemyn Aga.s.s. (1857). Type Plijcheinij.s conci}}na. 



> Trachemijs Agii.^!i. (1857). Tvpe Trncltcmys scabra. 



> Deirorhelyti Agas.s. (1857). 'Type Deirochelys reticulata. 



> Caltichely.f Gray (1803). Type Emys ornata. 



Malaooolemmys' Gray (Cat. Tort.. i>. 27, 1H44). 



Monotype Testudo concentrica Shaw (= Testudo terrapin Schoepff). 



> (irti]>lfmys .\fiiLi». (18.57). Typv Graptcmys yrtu/rnphicn. 

 Clemmyi Ritgen (Nova Acta Aia.l. Lcop. Car., XIV. pt. 1, 272, 1828). 



Type by elimination lunj/s punctata ( = Testudo (juttata Schn.). 



— Chetopu.i Kafiii. (iS.'Vi). Same type. 

 « NarwmyH AiiiL^H. (1H57). S.-mie type. 



> CnlrmyH .\fi,iv<H. (1S57). Tyix- ('iilnnys vnililcuhrryl. 



> illyjUcmyH .AgawH. (18.57). 'lyp'" (llyjtlcinyN in.sciilpttis. 



> Aclinrmys Agas.s. (1857). 1 ype .[cfinetny.'i imiritKirutu. 



Emys < »P1K)1 (Ord. lam. I{fi<i., \>. II, l.sll).' 



Oppel cited three species: 



' \N ritt^'ti MalnrlrmyH \>y firay, l»iit wtaU-d l)y liiiii to l)e ti mistake. 

 '/iwi/j» DtiiiK'ril {Ziiol. 'Ann!', y,. 70. 1800) "i.'i not twed in a properly generic 

 •ense uml Ikim no Htaixiiiig. 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



"Stemo antice mobile — E. lutaria." 



.. ( serpentina' = Chelydra Schw., 1S14. 



^temo cruciforme ■ , . „-., ^y^. , j- r-* tco/j 

 C longicoUis < Chelodina Fitz.. Iy26. 



Emys lutaria was also designated as the t^-pe by Fitzinger in 1S43, 

 under the name of Emys europcea Schw. 



= Emydoidea Gray (1870). Tj-pe Emys Blandingii. 

 Tarrapene Merrem (Tent. Syst. Amph.. p. 27, 1820). 



Type T. clausa Merr. ( = Testudo Carolina Linn.). By designation of 

 Gray (Ann. of PhUos.. X, 1825, p. 192). 



Cistudo Fleming {Phil. Zool.. II. p. 270. 1S22), often used for these 

 turtles, is wanting in definition and in any case is an exact s)'non}'in 

 of Terrapene Merrem, two years its senior, both being foimded on 

 Cu^^er^s "tortues a boite." 



Didicla Rafin. (.4//. Journal, 1S32. p. 64) has T. clausa for tj-pe and is 

 also a synomin. 



Teitado Linn. (S>-st. Nat., Ed. X. p. 197. 17oS>. 



Type Testudo graeca Linn. By designation of Fitzinger {Sysi. 

 Rept.. 29. 1843). 



> Gopherus Rafin. (1S32). T\-pe Testudo polyphemujf. 



> Xerobate-i .\sra.«j«. (1857). 'type Testudo berlandieri. 



CHELONID^. 

 Chelonia LAtraiUe (Hist. Nat. Kept.. 1. p. 22. 1802). 



T^-pe Testudo mydas Linn. By original de?=ignation. This genus is 

 often attributetl to Brongniart {Bull. Soc. Philom.. 11. p. 89, 1800). 

 In that place, however, it rests upon these words only, ''G. Chelone- 

 Oielonia (ce sont les tortues de mer)," and is a namen nudum. 



CaretU Hafin. (SpeccioSci. (Palermo). 11, 66, 1814). 



Monotype C. nasuta Raf. {= T. caretta Linn.). 

 Rafinesque's words are "Caretta nasuta Raf., Testudo caretta Linn." 

 = Tfi'ila.<isochely/>Fitz.(lS3o). ^<aIne t>-pc. 

 ErctmoohelTB Fits. (Sy>t. Rept.. p. 30. 1843). 



Type Chelonia imbricata Cuv. By original designation. 

 TRIONYCHID^. 

 PUtypeltii I :'i \"i Wion .Mu- . 1. i-p. utt. l.'T. Isij). 



TyiH' PUityi>ilh.<< fcrox Sohweig. 



Tlie two species named by Fitzinger, Trionyx brongniartii Schw. and 



T. fernx Schw. an- ' ! . and the genus l«( therefore rnnnot>-pic. Thr 



-amo .specicjs was <.■ -^l by Fitzinger {Syst. Re}>t.. -iiK 1843). 



.\ mtjda Okcn (1R16). Type Trionyi rufjhroticuM. 

 .Snpidnnecte* Wagl. (1h:JIj). Type Trionyx a^ypticu4. 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



SQUAMATA. 



Correctly outlined by Merrem {Tent. Syst. Amph., p. 39, 1S20) with 

 groups (I) Gradientia, (II) Rcpcntia, (III) Serpcnda. 



Oppel used Squar?iata in ISll with groups (I) saurii, (II) ophidii, 

 but he included crocodiles in saurii. 



LACERTILIA. 



Authors previous to Owen either included with lizards the crocodiles, 

 or omitted serpentiform lizards, under the names Gradientia, "sau- 

 riens," or saurii. They were first correctly delimited under the name 

 Lacertilia by Owen {Rep. Br. Ass. Adv. of Sc, 1841, p. 162). 



QECKONID^. 



Phyllodactylus Gray (Spicilegia Zoologica, p. 3, 1830). 



^lonotype Phyllodadyliis pidcher Gray. 



Sphaerodaotylus Wagl. (Syst. Amph., p. 1-13, 1830). 



Type Sphccrodactylm sputator Sparr. IJy designation of Fitzinger 

 {Sijst. Rept., 18, 1843). It was also the only one of Wagler's species 

 retained in the genus by Gray (1831) and Dum^ril and Bibron (1836). 



EUBLEPHARID^. 

 Coleonix Gray (Ann. Mag. Nat. Hi.-t.. 1S45, 102). 



Type Cokonyx elegans Gray. By designation of Boulenger {Cat. 

 Liz. Br. Mus., 1, p. 234, 1885). 



IGUANIDiE. 

 Anolis Dau.lin (Hist. Nat. Hept., IV. p. 50. 1803). 



According to Dr. Stejneger {Ihrp. of Porto Rico, 625, 1004) the type 

 of Anolis is .4. bullaris. But the pertinency of this name to any known 

 species is far from certain. Lacerta hidlaris Linn, rests on Catesby's 

 plate 66, "Lacerta viridis jamaiccnsis," whose recognition is chiefly 

 an act of faith. No other of tiie eariy authors added exactness to its 

 use. A. bullaris Daud. (/. c, p. 69) is based on L. bullaris Linn., adding 

 thereto Catesby's plate 65, ''Lacerta viridis carolinmsis," antJ another 

 unassignable Linncan name, L. .'^Irumosa. \h\m6n\ an<l Bibron (Vol. 

 4, pp. 117, 120) divide A. bidlaris Daud. into .4. chloro-cyanus and .4. 

 carolinensis, considering the first of these species to be (lU('stional)ly 

 L. bullaris Linn. As A. carolinensis D. and B. rests on a firm basis in 

 Catesby, it would seem that this name should not be disturbed, and 

 that bullaris of authors should be permittcKJ to remain in obscurity. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117 



Ctenosaara Wiegman (Ims, 182$, p. 371). 



Monotype Cte7iosaura cycluroides Wieg. ( = Lacerta acanthura Shaw). 



Dipsosaarus Hallowell (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1854. 92). 



.Mnnotype Crotaphytus dorsalis B. and G. 



Crotaphytus Holbrook (No. Am. Herp.,,H, p. 79. 1842). 



-Monotype Agama coUaris Say. 



Sanromalus Dum(?ril (Arch, du Mus., VIII, 535, 18.56). 



-Moncjtype Sauromalus ater Dum. 



CalliBaartlS Blainville (Xouv. .\nn. du Mus., IV, 286, 1835). 



Type Callisaurus draconoidcs Blain. Bv original designation. 



Uma Baird (Proc. .\cad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 18.58, p. 253). 



Monotype Uma notata Bd. 



Holbrookia Girard (Proc. A. \. .K. .Science. IV, 201, 1851). 



Monotype Holbrookia maculata Gir. 



Uta Baird and Girard (.Stans. Exp. Gr. .Salt Lake, 344, 1852). 



Type Uta stansburiana B. and (i. By original designation. 



Soeloporus Wiegman (Isis, 1828, p. 369). 



Type Sceloporus torquatus Wieg. By de.signation of Fitzinger 

 {Syst. Rcpt., p. 17, 1843). 



Phrynoioma Wiegman (Isis, 1828, p. 367). 



Suhgcnu.^ Phrynosoma Wieg. Type Lacerta orbicular^; Linn. By 

 designation of Wiegman {Ilerp. Mex., 18, 1834). 



Subgenus Anota Hallowell {Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1852, p. 182). 

 Monotype Annta Mccallii Hallow. 



HELODERMATID^. 



Heloderma Wiegman (Im^. 1829, p. <i27^ 



Moiu^type Ilcloderma horrid uni Wicir. 



ANGUID^. 



Ophisaurus Uaudin (HiM. Kept., VII, 340, l,so3). 

 Monotype Atufuis ve)drali.<< Linn. 



Diplogloiiai Wieicnian (Herp. Mex., 36, 18.34). 



Type Tdiqun fa.<iciata Gray. By designation of Dum. and Bib. 

 {Erp. Gen., \', 5i>8, 183'J).' 



Subgenus Cclestus Gray {Ann. Man. Sat. UiM., 1S3«), p. 288). 

 Mrmotype Cclestus striatus Gray. 



Thr Htibgfnus Dij^togloaaun i.s extra litnital. 




118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Otrrhonotas Wiegman (Isi*!, 1S28, p. 379). 



Subgenus Gerrhonotus Wieg. Type Gerrhonotiis tessellatus Wieg. 



(=(?. lioce-phalus Wieg.). By designation of Fitzinger {Sijst. Rept., 

 21, 1843). 



Subgenus Banssia Gray {Ann. Mag. Nai. Hist., 1838, p. 39U). Type 



Barissia imbricata Gray. By designation of Stejneger {Froc. U. S. 

 Nat. Mus.. XIII. 183, 1890). 



XANTUSIIDuE. 



Xantaaia Baird (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., ISoS, p. 255). 



Monotj'pe Xanitisia vigilis Bd. 



Zablepsis Cope (Amer. Naturalist, 1895, p. 758). 



Type Xanlusia henshawi Stej. B}' original designation. 



Amoebopsis Cope (Amer. Naturalist, 1895, p. 758). 



Type Xanlusia gilberti Van Den. By original designation. 



TEIIDu^J. 

 Cnemidophorai Wagler (Syst. .\mph.. 1,54, 1830). 



Subgenus Cnemidophorus Wagl. Tj-pe Seps ynurinus Laur. Py 

 designation of Fitzinger {Syst. Rept., 20, 1843). Dr. H. Gadow, in an 

 interesting analj-'sis of this genus (P. Z. S. London, 1906. 1, p. "288), 

 makes reference to C. sexlineatus as being the tj-pe. But in no way 

 could this be, for it is not one of the species enumerated by Wagler. 



Subgenus Verticaria Cope {Proc. Am. Phil. Soc, 1869, p. 158). Type 

 Cnemidophorus hyperythrus Cope. By original designation. 



SOINCID^. 



LygOBOma Gray (Zool. Journal, III, 1H27, p. 22H). 



.Monotype Lacerta serpens Bloch {= L. chalcides Linn.). 



Subgenus Liolepisma Dum. and Bil). {Erp. Gen., V, 742, 18.39). 

 Monotype Scincus tclfairi Desj. 



= Oligoeoma Girard (1857). Type Mocoa zelandicn. 

 PUitiodon Dum. anri Bib. (Erp. Gen., V. 097. 1S,39). 



Type iMcertn quinquelineata Linn. By designation of Fitzinger 

 {Syst. Rept., p. 22, 1843). 



Eumeces Wiegnian {Herp. Mcx., p. 36, 1834) can not be used for this 

 genus, Wiogman incliidrvl in it three sppcifs: 



1. Scincus ptuimentdtus i\o()fi. < Plesliodaii D. and B., 1839. 



2. Scincus rufescens Merrctn = type of Eumeces Fitz., 1843. 



3. Scincus punrlntus ,Srhn. = *.vpe of Eumrres J), and B.. 1S39. 

 Tlif scirTtion rif S. j))inclalU8 Schn. f^n^t Rinpa piinrld/u fJr.My, 1S30) 




1008.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 119 



as type by Dumeril and Bibron (Vol. V, p. 630) ties Eumeces to a sec- 

 tion of skinks with iinseparate<I pteiysoids. ^^The available name for 

 the present genus seems tr» be Plesfiorfon. 



ANELY PROPID^. 

 Anelytropsis Cope (Proc. Am. Phila. Sod., 18S5, p. 3S0). 



Monotype A nebjtropsis papillosus Cope. 



ANNIELLID^. 



Anniella Gray (Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., 1852, p. 440). 



•Monotype Anniella pulchra Gray. 



EUOHIROTID^. 



Euohirotes Cope (.Vmer. .\aturali.-t, l.sOl, p. 130). 



Monotype Euchirotes hiponts Cope. 



AMPHISB^NID^. 



Bhinenra Cope (Proc. Aca^l. Nat. Sci. Phila., ISOl, p. 7.5). 



Type Lepidoslernum floridana Bd. By orijrinal designation. 



OPHIDIA. 



Serpentcs Linn. include<l snakes, amphisbaenian^ and csecilians, as 

 also did Serpentid Laur. (1768) and Ophidii Dandin (1S03). ScrpaUcs 

 Dumeril (1806) included ca?cilians. Ophidii Oppel (1811) and Scr- 

 penlin Merrem (1820) included amphisba^nians. The serpents were 

 first cleare<l of unrelatp<l form.'^ by Clray, u.<iiiir the name Ophidii 

 {Ann. nj Philos.. 1825. p. 204). 



LEPTOTYPHLOPID^ 

 LeptOtyphlops Fitzinger (Syst. Kept., p. 24, l.SJ.'J). 



Type* Ti/phlops nigricans Schlegel. iiy original designation 



— GUiurnnid Gray C1S4.t). Tvpc Ti/phlops HiV/rir«;i.<. 



> licnn n. and G. (ls.5.3). Type limn <lulris U. ami G. 



> Singnnodon Pet«?r8 (1881). Typo Typhlops septemslria'us Sohn. 



BOID^. 



Lichanura Tope (Proc. Aeo'l. Not. .Sci. Philn., IVil. p. .KM). 

 Monotype Lichanura trixnrqala Cope. 



Charin* Gray (Cat. Sn. Br. Mu'*.. p. 113. IS49). 



Monotype Toririx botla: Blain. 



r^ Wennnn H. nn<l G. (1.S53). Tyiw Wennna /Vu/xVi H. an<l G. 




120 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



COLUBRID^. 

 TropidonotuB Boit? (Isis, 1826. 1, p. 204). 



Type Coluber imtrix Linn. By designation of Boie {his, 1827, p. 



518). 



= Xatrix Laur. (Cope. ISSS). Not Cope, 1S62. 



> Xerodia B. and G. (1S.53). Tj-pe Coluber sipedon Linn. 



> Regina B. and G. (1S.53). Type Coluber leberi.'< Linn. 



> Clonophis Cope (ISSS). Type Regitw kirtlandii Keun. 



The use of Natrix Laur. for this genus does not appear to me obUga- 

 toiy or excusable. The rule under which types of undefined genera 

 are accepted does not constrain or even imply that, in the case of an 

 originally defined genus, a species must be accepted as t^q^e having 

 characters contrar}- to the definition. If it did so, the only consistent 

 course would be to admit that the Code docs not consider definitions at 

 all. It was pointed out by me {Science, July 6, 1907, p. 117) that of 

 the fourteen recognizable species cited by Laurenti under Natrix, now 

 distributed among eight genera, the two belonging to the present genus 

 are the only ones at diametric variance with " Truncus glaher nitidus," 

 which is the sole character of diagnostic value in the definition. 



Because Fleming {Philos. of ZooL, II, p. 291. 1822) cho.se to select an 

 unconforming type for Natrix in T. torquata (= Coluber Jiatrix Linn.), 

 or because the rule of "type by tautonomy" coidd be applied to the 

 case, it does not follow that we are compelle<l to use Natrix. It is still 

 open to rejection for any group as a meaningless conglomerate. It is 

 also questionable whether Fleming's citation of a species after some of 

 the genera given by him constitutes selection of a type in accordance 

 with paragraph l\g of Article 30. 



As first published in a posthumous letter from Kuhl {Isis, 1822, p. 

 473) Tropiflonotus is a nomen nudum. But four veal's later it was well 

 defined by Boi6 {his, 1826. 1. 204), who credited it to Kuhl, and named 

 under it Coluber natrix Linn, and riperinus Daudin. The following 

 year he definitely fixed natrix a.s the type. 



Tll&mnophis Titzinger (Syxt. Hept.. |>. 20. 1843). 



Type Tropidonotus sauritus Schl. hy original designation. 



— Enttrnia B. and G. (IS.5.3). Sunn- type. 



> AlomnrrhuM i'opo (\SS^). Ty]}i' .Atoinnrchun mullinuiculntus Cope. 



> Sh/poremuM Copt? ( ls7.'>). Type StinMJCctnuft rufopnnclalus Cope, I )y .suli.stil ii- 



tion for Chilnjxnno Cope, preoccupied. 



Tropidocloniam Cope (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 180U, p. ~G). 



Type Mirrnps Itneatum Hallow. By original designation. 



t«l&in«tris Co|>« (Amer. Naturaliot, 1)!>9.5, p. 07f>). 



Type Scminntrix pyqceus Cope. By original designation. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



Helicops Wagler (Syst. Amph.. 170. 1830). 



Type Helicops carinicaudatus Wagl. By desifrnation of Fitzingcr 

 (Syst. Rept., 25, 1843). 



> Liodytes Cope (1885). T\-pe Helicops alleni Garm. 

 Amphiardis Cope (Proc. V. S. Nat. Mu.*.. 1888, p. 391). 



Type Virginia inornata Garni. By original designation. 



Haldea B. and G. (Cat. No. Am. Serp.. 122. 1853). 



TjT^e Coluber siriatula Linn. By original designation. 



Storeria B. and G. (Cat. No. Am. .Serp.. 135, 1853). 



Type Tropidonotus dekayi Holb. By original designation. 

 = Ischnognathus Dum. and Bib. (1853). Same type. 

 Drymarchon Fitzinger (Syst Rept.. 26. 1843). 



Type Coluber corais Daudin. By original designation. 



< Spiloles Wagler (18.30). Type S. jmllatus. 



= Com pfiofotna Cope (1895). No type. = Compsosomn Dum. and Bib. part. 

 = Georgia B. and G. (1853). Type Coluber coujieri Holb. 



Drymobius Fitzinger (Syst. Rept., 26. 1843). 



'i"\pe Herpetodryas margaritiferus Schl. By original designation. 



Callopeltis (Fitz.) Bonap. (Icon. Fauna Ilal.. Vol. II.an<i .M<?m. Acad. Torino (2). 11.401. 1840). 



Type Coluber leopardinus. By original designation of Fitzinger. 



= Coluba' auotoros. 



> Scotophis B. and G. (1S53). Type Coluber allegheniensis Holb. 

 = Sntrii Laur. (Cope, 1862). Not Cope, 1S8S. 



Arizona Kenn. (U. S. Mex. Bound. Surv., 18, 1859). 



Monotype Arizona elegans Kenn. 



< lihinechis Micali. (1833). Type Rhinechis scalarus. 

 Pityophil Holbr^k (Si,. Am. Herp., IV. 7, 1842). 



.Monotype Coluber melatwleucus Daudin. 



Coluber Linn (.^y.'^t. .Nat. Kd., .\, 21(i, 17.58). 



Tyjx' Coluber constrictor Linn. By (lesignatif)n of Fitzingcr (Syst. 

 Rept., 26, 1843). 



- Zamenis Waaler (1S3()), Type S'nlrix gemonenais Laiir. 



> linxcanium B. and G. (1853). Type Coluber cotuilrirtor Linn. 

 '^Mdxtirophia B. and G. (1853). Type Coluber flngvUnm Shaw. 



lender the new Rule 30 wo are no longer Ixmnd (o Laun-nti's notion, 

 lis first reviser, of the limits of Coluber and are therefore frcKxl from the 

 ron'^iih-ration of Dr. Stejneger's pro|)()Sul (Herp. of Jajxin, pp. 307, 

 H3, 1«M)7) to transfer the name to the genus othenvise known as 

 \'l]trrn Laur.— a change which would have been serious in view of all 

 the connotations of the word "coluber." The present shifting of tlic 

 term to replace Hascanium, following Fitzinger's selection of a type, 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



long antedates CoUett's designation of Vipera ferus and has the good 

 fortune to preserve both the long established family names Coluhridce 

 and Viprri(l(e. 



Salvadora B. an. J G. (Cat. No. Am. Serp., 104, 1853). 



Tyjie Salvadora Grahamiop B. and G. B}'^ original designation. 

 = Phimoihyra Cope (1S60). Same type. 

 Phyllorhynohua StejneKcr (Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1890, p. 151). 



Type Phyllorhynchus browni Stej. By original designation. 



Opheodrys Fitzinger (Syst. Rept.. 26. 1843). 



Type Herpeiodryas cestivus Schl. By original designation. 



< Leptophis Bell aS26). T>-pe Leptnphis nhcetuUa. 



< Cyclophis Gunther (1S.5S). Type Herpeiodryas tricolor. 



LiopeltiB Fitzinger f.Sy«t. Rept.. 26. 1843). 



Type Herpeiodryas tricolor Schl. By original designation. 



> Chlorosoma B. and G. (1853). Type Coluber vernalis DeKay. 

 Contia B. and G. (Cat. No. Am. Serp.. 110, 1853). 



Tj'pe Contia mitis Bd. By original designation. 



Pseadoficimia Bocourt (Mis?. Sci. au Mex., .572, 1883) 



Monotype Pseudoficimia pidchra Boc. 



Conopsis Gunther (Cat. Sn. Br. Mu?.. 6, 1858). 



Monotype Conopsis nasus Gunth. 



Tolaoa Kennicott (U. S. and Mex. Botind. Surv., 23, 1859). 



Monotype Tallica lineata Kenn. 



DiadophiB B. and G. (Cat. No. Am. Serp.. 112. 1853). 



Type Coluber punctatus Linn. By original designation. 



Lampropeltis Fitzinger (Synt. Rept., 25, 1843). 



Type Herpeiodryas getidus Schl, By original designation. 



= OphiholuH B. and G. (1S53). Type Coronelln sayi Holb. 



> Osceola B. and G. (1853). Type Calamnria elapmidea Holb. 



Stilosoma \. Brow-n (Vtoc. .\cad.Nat. .Sci. Phila., 199. 1890). 



Mf)notype »S'/i7o5owa cxlenualum A. Brown, 



Carphophii Gcrvais (Diet. Hint. Nat. d'Orbigny, III, 191. 1843). 



Monotype Colitljer amffnus Say. 



> Citrpliophiops (U'rvui^ (1813). Type C. nrnujormis. 

 — Celuln li. jirid G. (ls.')3). Type Coluher nincenun Say . 



•= lirarhi/orroK U(A\)T(n>k (lH-12). Same type. Not of Boi<f- (1S'J7). 



Paranoia Gray (Zool. Mine., p. 68, 1842). 



Monotype Fnrancui Drnmmondi Ctray (= Colid)cr dlKirunis Holb.). 



Abattor 'Jrny fCnr. .Sn. Br. Muk.. p. 7H, 1SI9). 



Monotype Hcticops crythrofjrammus Waglor. 




1908.] XATrRAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123 



Virginia H. an.i G. (Cat. No. Am. Serp.. p. 127. 18.53). 



Type Virginia YalcricB B. and G. By original designation. 



Ficimia Gray (Cat. Sn. Br. Mu.«.. p. SO. lS-19). 



Monotype Ficimia olivacea Gray. 



ChilomeniiCUS Cope (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.. 1860, p. 339). 



Monotype Chilomeniscus stramineus Cope. 



Cemophora Cope (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.. 1860. p. 244). 



Typo Coluber coccineus Blum. By original designation. 



Rhinochilus B. and G. (Cat. No. .\ni. Serp., p. 120. 1853). 



Type Rhinochilus Lecontei B. and G. By original designation. 



Hypsiglena Cope (Proc. .\cad. Nat. Sci. Phila.. 1860, p. 246). 



Tyi)e Ilijpsifjkna ochrorhyncha Cope. By original designation. 



Khadinea f'ope (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1863, p. 10). 



Type Taniophis venniculadceps Cope. By original de.'^ignation. 



Prof. Cope subsequently {Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1868, 132) 

 named R. melanoccphala D. and B. as the type, and again {Rep. U. S. 

 Nat. Mus., 1898, p. 754) he says the type is R. obtusa Cope. The 

 genus was, however, distinctly founde<l upon T. vermiculaticeps on its 

 first publication in 1863. 



Heterodon Latreille (Hist. Nat. de.s Rept., IV, p. 32, 1800). 



Monotype Heterodon platijrhinus Latr. 



Trimorphodon C<.i>e (Proc Acad. Nat. .Sci. Phila., 1801, p. 297). 



Type Trimorphodon lyrophanes Cope. By original designation. 



Leptodira Fitzinger (Syst. Rept., p. 27, 1843). 



Type Dipsas annidatus ^ch\. By original designation. Sibon I'itz. 

 (Ncue Cla.<is Rept., 1826, p. 29) can not be use<l for this genus of opistho 

 glyph snakes. It has, by tautonomy, for type Coluber nebulatus Linn. 

 (= Coluber sibon Linn.), which is tlie typo of Petnlognathus l)um. and 

 Bib. 



Manolepis Cope (Proc. Am. Philon. .S'»c.. 188.5. p. 70). 



Type Tomodon nasutus Cope. By original designation. 



Conophil I'eter» fMonatf«. Berl. Acad., ISOO, p. 519). 



.Monotype Conophis vittatus Peters. 



Erythrolamprnt Boid (Isia, 1820, p. 981). 



Monotype Coluber venustissimus Pr. Max. 



- Coninjthmicii Hallow. (1860). Type C. fiKHtdetm. 

 Scoleoophit Fitiinser (Hyit. R«pt., p. 25. 1843). 



Typr Cidamaria atrocincta SchL By original designation. 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Tantilla B. and G. (Cat. No. Am. Serp., p. 131, 18.53). 



Type TatUilla coronata B, and G. By original designation. 



= Homalocranium Dum. and Bib. (Erp. Gen., \ni. 85.5. 1854). T}-pe H. 

 planiceps (not of Dum. and Bib., M(5m. Acad. Sci., 1853, p. 490. '^TP& 

 Calamaria brachyorros Hallow.). 



Elaps Schneider (Hist. Amph., II. p. 289. ISOl). 



Type Flaps Icmniscatus Linn. By designation of Gray (Ann. of 

 Philos., 1825. p. 206). 



Fleming (Philos. ZooL, II. p. 295. 1822) mentions Flops lacteus, but it 

 does not appear that in this work types are selected as required by the 

 present rule. 



VIPERID^ 



Anciatrodon Beauvois (Trans. Am. Philos. See., IV. p. 381, 1799). 



-Monotype Agkistrodon mokasen Beau. (= Boa contortrix Linn.). 



Beauvois says (p. 381) under Agkistrodon, "In this last division 

 should be arranged the mokasen," which on \). 370 he refers to as 

 Agkistrodon mokasen. 



Sistmrus Garman (No. Am. Rept., p. 110, 1883). 



Type Crotalus miliarius Linn. By substitution. 



CroUlUB Linn. (Syst. Nat., Ed. X, p. 214, 1758). 



Tj'pe Crotalus horridus Linn. By designation of Gray (Ann. of 

 Philos., 1825, p. 205). 



AMPHIBIA. 



According to Dr. Stejneger Batrachia was used for the first time by 

 Batsch (1788) as an exact .synonym of Salientia Laurenti (1768), for 

 which reason he thinks it should not be used for a division of wider 

 scope. Brongniart (1800) had ver}' nearly an exact conception of the 

 contents of this class, for he even suspected that the cu'cilians belong 

 to it, ])uX he iLsed only the vernacular " batracieiLS." All other authors 

 omitted cseciliaas down to 1811, when Oppel used Nuda for the class, 

 with orders (I) Apoda, (II) Ecaudnta, (III) Caudata. Merrem (1S20) 

 use<l Batrachia with (I) Apoda, (II) S(dicntia, (III) Gradicntia. 



Amphibia Linn, includetl reptiles and am|)hii)ians, Init was never 

 u.'^e*! in exact form until Gray correctly api)lied it (Ann. of Philos. 

 (n. s.), 10, p. 213, 1825). 



By strict priority the name would be \uda Oppel, Imt fortunately 

 it is not necessary to replace n well-known chi'^s name by one so 

 ol)scure. 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



SALIEXTIA. 



Salienlia Laurenti {Syn. Rept., p. 24, 176S) contained the genera 

 Rana, Pipa, Hijla and Bujo, as well as Proteus, which seems to have 

 been founded on a tadpole oi.Rana. It is therefore equivalent to and 

 much older than Ecaudata Dumeril (1S06). Amira, attributed by 

 Cope to Dumeril, has no standing, as that author used only "anoures." 



RANID^. 



Baaa Linn. (Syst. Nat., Ed. X, p. 354, 17js). 



Type Rana temporaria Linn. By designation of Gray (Ann. of 

 Phiios., 1S25, p. 214). 



ENGYSTOMATID^. 

 Engystoma Fitringer (Neiie Clas.^ Rept., p. 6.5, 1S26). 



lidna oralis Schneider is the only one of Fitzinger's species retaine<l 

 in Engystoma by Dumeril and Bibron {Erp. Gen., 8, p. 741, 1S41) and 

 is consequently the type. 



Hypopachus Kerfer>tein fOoftingen Nachrichten, 1S67, p. 352). 



-Muiiutypf Ilypopachus Scehachii Kerf. (= H. variolosum Cope). 



CYSTIGNATHID^. 

 Lithodytaa Fitringer (Syst. Rept., p. 31, 1843). 



Type Hylodes lineatus D. and B. By original designation. 



Syrrophus C<n>e f.\nier. Naturalist, 1878, p. 253). 



.Monotype Syrrhophus marnockn Cope. 



HYLID^. 



Chorophilns Haipl (Proc. Aca<i. -Nat. Sci. Phila., 1854, p. 00). 



Monotype Cystujnathus nigritus Holb. 



Aoril I^ui". an-l Bib. (Erp. Gen., 8, p. ."WW. 1841). 



Type Ilylntlcs 'jryllus DoKay. liy designation of Baird (Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila.. IS.54, j). 59). 



Hyla Laurenti (.Syi«t. Kept., p. 32, 176S). 



Type Hyla inridis ( = //. arbona Linn.) fide Stejneger. 



Smilitca Coix (Pr<>c. Aca<l. Nat. Sci. Phila., I86.'i. p. 104). 



Monotype Smilisca daulinia Cope (= Hyla Uiudinii Dum. and Bil).). 



BUFONIDiE. 

 Bnfo Laumiti (Syirt. Kept., p. 25, I7M). 



TyjH" by tautononiy liufo vulgaris Laur. ( = Rana hufo Linn.). 




126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



PELOBATID^. 

 Soapliiopui Holbrook (No. Am. Herp., I, p. 8.5, 1S3G). 



Monot}-pe Scaphiopus solitarius Holb. 



Spea.Cope (Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., (2). VI. p. 81, 1866). 



TypelScaphiopus hombifrons Cope (= »S'. hammondi Baird). By 

 original cle.signation. 



CAUDATA. 



Dum^ril {Zoologic Analytiqiw, 94, 1S06), "les batracieiis urodeles 

 (caudati)." The following year {Xouv. Bull, des Sc, 1S07, p. 36) he, 

 definitely says "order Caudati." Urodela is often based upon this 

 reference, but Dum^ril used neither it nor Anura m Latin form. 



PLEURODELID^. 

 Diemyctylns Rafinesque (.\nn. of Nature, 1820, No. 22. p. .5). 



Type Tritx(rus i^iridesccns. By original designation. 



DESMOGNATHID^. 

 Desmofnathui Baird (Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., (2), 1. pp. 282, 285, 18.50). 



Type Tritunis fuscus Rafin. 



PLETHODONTID^ 

 Aatod&Z Boulenger (Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., 1887, p. 67). 



Tvpe Aiiaides lugubris Baird. x By substitution for Anaidcs Baird 

 (1849). preoccupied. 



OyrinophiltU Cope (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1869. p. 108). 



Monotype Sahmandra porphyriticus Green. 



Bpelerpes Kafinc-wjue (Atlantic Journal. I, p. 22, 1832). 



Type Spclerpcs lucifugn Rafin. (= Solamandrn longicauda Green). 

 By original designation. 



Manonlai Coj,* (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1869, pp. 9.5, Hil). 



M(»notype Sidamaudra quadridigitata Holb. 



Btereochilu* Cope (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1869, p. 100). 



Monotype Pseudotriton marginatum Hollow. 



PUthodon Ti«'hudi (\\6'n. Soc. Neucliatpl, 1838, pp, 59, 92). 



TyjK' Stilamandra glutinosa Gre-en. By designation of Bonaparte 

 {Fauna Hal, II, 131). 



Hemidactylinm T»chudi (.M<'m. Hce. Ncurhatel, IH.TS, pi.. .59, 94). 



Typr Sidamnndrn scutota Schl. By original designation. 




1908.] XATLRAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 127 



Batrachoseps Bonaparte (I'uuna Ital., II, 131). 



Type Salamandra attemuita E-sch. By original designation. 



AMBYSTOMID^. 

 Dicamptodon .Straueh (.Mdm. .\cad. Sci. St. P^ttrs., (7). .\VI. No. 4, p. 68. 1870). 



Moiiutype Triton ensatus Esch. 



Ambystoma TschuJi (Mem. Soc. Neuchatql, 1838, pp. 57, 92). 



Type Ambystoma subviolacea Tsch. (= Lacerta punctata Linn.). By 

 original designation. 



> Linijutlajj.fus Cope (1SS7). Type L. lepturus Cope. 

 Chondrotus Coj>e (.\nier. Naturalist, 1887, p. 88). 



Type Chondrotus tenebrosus. By original designation. 



CRYPTOBRANCHID^. 

 Cryptobranchus Leuckart (IsU, 1S21, Litt. .\nz., i). 260). 



.Monotype Sahiynandra (jiyantca Barton (= Cryptobranchus alle- 

 gheniensis). 



AMPHIUMID^. 

 Amphiuma Caflen (Smith's (Jorres. of Linna-u.x, I, 599). 



Tyi)(.' Amphi\ima means Gard. By original designation. 



PROTEID^. 



Neoturus Ualinc-wiue (.I<.ur. <]e Phy.s., Vol. 88, p. 418, 1819). 



Monotype Neclurus maculatus. 



Rafine.sf|uc gave the names of six species under Xcrturus, of which 

 maculatus is the only one recognizable, leaving the genus practically 

 monotypic. 



SIRENID^. 

 Siren Linn. (Syst. Nat.. Ivl. .MI. |.. .'{71, 1766). 



.MorK)type .Siren laccrtina Linn. 

 Pieadobranohui <:ray (Ann. of PhiloH., 1825, p. 216) 

 Monotype Siren striata LeConte. 




128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



METHODS OF SECOKDING AND UTILIZING BIRD-MIGRATION DATA. 

 BY AVITMER STONE. 



The custom of recording the dates of arrival of migrant birds has 

 been practised for a great many years in various countries, and more 

 recently attempts have been made to encourage the keeping of such 

 records on a uniform plan and to gather them together for the purpose 

 of study and comparison. 



In America this work wa.s begun in 1884 under the direction of the 

 American Ornithologists' Union, and since 1885 has been conducted 

 by the Division of Biological Survey (formerly Ornithology and Mam- 

 malogy) of the U. S. Department of Agriculture. 



All the published records with which I am familiar represent the 

 work of one individual at each station, and until very recently there 

 has been no attempt made to compare the records of several oliservers 

 at practically the same locality. 



The meagerness of the data that it is possible for one individual to 

 gather on bird migration, compared with the magnitude of the phenom- 

 enon, must be apparent to all, and yet we are constantly attempting 

 all sorts of estimates — as to the rapidity of flight, the relation of fluctu- 

 ation of migration to temperature variation, etc. — based for the most 

 part upon the recf)r(ls of individual observers. 



In HKJl the Delaware Valley Ornithological Club of Philadelphia 

 organizcnl a rf)rps of observers for the study of bird migration in this 

 vicinity. This corps now numbers sixty-three, of which thirty-five are 

 located within ten miles of the center of Philadelphia. 



The study and comparison of the yearly records of these observers 

 throws some interesting light uixiti the accuracy of individual records 

 and suggests some methods by which a more correct index of the pro- 

 gress of migration nuiy be obtaine(l. 



Many of the records are preseiite<l in detail each year in Cassinia 

 the annual publication of the Delaware Valley Ornithological Club, 

 and to these, a-s well Jis to the original schedules retunie<l by the ob- 

 servers, I am indel)te<l for the data di.scussed iti the present |)aper. 



in a pajxT re;id before the American Ornithologists' Union in New 

 York Citv in November, UK)5, and later pnl)li>^he«l in Thf Cnndnr, I 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 129 



first called attention to the possiljilities of combining a number of 

 individual records, and later Prof. \\'. W. Cooke of the U. S. Department 

 f»f Agriculture discus.sed the same question in a short paper in The 

 A uk for July. 1907, p. 346. These are, I believe, the only papers deaUng 

 with this phase of the question. The well-known work of Mr. Otto 

 Herman in Hungary, while probably based upon the most extensive 

 series of data ever collected, does not, so far as I am aware, touch 

 upon the comparison of individual records, at a single locality. 



Individual and Bulk Arrivals. 



One of the most important points for consideration in a bird-migra- 

 tion record is an understanding of just what our date of arrival indicates. 

 A migrating species is not a definite ma.ss, like a railroad train, but a 

 scattered host of individuals requiring weeks or even months to pass a 

 given point and moving intermittently; consequently there may be a 

 great many dates of arrival at that point, according to what part of 

 the mo\'ing procession we are considering. 



In the schedules furnished by the V. S. Department of Agriculture 

 the date (jf "first arrival" is called for. and in atldition the date when 

 the species was next seen and when it became common. The object 

 being to differentiate between the arrival of the main flight or "l)ulk" 

 of the species and that of individual early stragglers. 



With the exception of these schedules, nearly all tlic American 

 migratif)n records with which I am familiar deal only with the date of 

 "first arrival," and in the publications that have Ijcen ba.seil upon the 

 records of the U. S. Department of Agriculture, only one date Is usually 

 given, presvmiably the date of fii*st arrival. 



This would seem to indicate the imsatisfactory nature of the records 

 f)f bulk arrival, afi estinuite<l in' an individual observer, a fact which 

 has iinpre.s.setl itself upcjn me after twenty-five years' experience in 

 recordiiig and tabulating bird migration data. It seems altogether too 

 variable a (juantity to be of i)ractical value in making any sort of com- 

 parisons except in sj)ecial instances. 



Different s|)ecies of bin Is vary in the way in which they l)ecome 

 abundant at any point; sctme may come in considerable numbers on 

 the very fii"st day upon which they are seen or a day or so after the 

 "first arrival." while others gradually drift in, a few each day, until all 

 the usual haunts are pf)pulate<l, though it is impossible to say upciu jiist 

 which flay they became common. In other cases large flocks may 

 be seen passing overhea<l some time before any indivitluals establish 

 them.sclvcs in their local summer haunts. It seems, too, that certain 

 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



species van- in their manner of arrival in different years, being con- 

 centrated one season and scattered in another. 



The proper study of fluctuations in the numbers of each species at 

 any point, such as would warrant an estimate of bulk arrival, requires, 

 except in a few cases, far more time than the majority of observers can 

 possibly give to the work — if indeed the task is possible for one indi- 

 vidual — and consequentlj' where such an estimate has been attempted 

 the personal equation entere to such an extent as to render the results 

 of little value. 



It woukl seem that, with the comparatively small amount of time 

 at the disposal of most observei"s, it would be better to suggest the 

 recording of such occasional "bulk arrivals" as are so marked a feature 

 of the migration as to become obvious, rather than to ask for a record 

 of this sort for each species, which must from the nature of the case be 

 in the vast majority of instances an estimate. 



At the same time, however, the date of the fii^st arrival, often an early 

 straggler, does not in itself give us a proper record of the migration of the 

 species, and it is here that the combination of a number of local records 

 proves invaluable and furnishes a far more accurate resimie of the 

 flight of the species than can possiblj' be obtained i^y any individual 

 observer. 



For instance take the arrival of the Wood Thrush in the ten-mile 

 circle about Philadelphia in the Spring of 1006. Thirty-one observers 

 recorded it as follows: One on April 25, two on April 28, ten on April 

 29, five on April 30, eight on May 1, and one each on May 2, 3, 4, 10 

 and 12, This record obviously warrants us in saying that for this 

 area pioneer migrants arrived on April 25 and 28, while the bulk of the 

 migration occurred from April 29 to May 1, after which date it was 

 impossible, on account of the presence of the i)ird at almost all points, 

 to judge how much further transient migration was in progress. The 

 dates upon which the "first arrivals" arc massed are obviousl}' the 

 dates upon which the "bulk" arrived. The late dates are to some 

 extent due to failure on the part of the observer to be in the field on the 

 day on which the species fii-st arrived, but in ]iart they represent actual 

 absence of the species from these particular localities, as it is a matter 

 of record that on several occasions a species has been seen regularly 

 for some days at f)ne locality before a single in<iivi<lual has appeared 

 at another station nearby, in spite of careful search at the latter place. 



The actual progress of the arrival of the Wf)od Thrush in 1906 within 

 the Philadelphia ten-mile circle may ho shown more gnipliicilly in the 

 accompanying diagrams. 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



131 



FiK. 1, 



lik'. 3. 




132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Up to April 28 (fig. 1) the species had been observed at but three 

 stations, two of these being to the north and northeast of the city and 

 the other to the southwest. On April 29 (fig. 2) it was present at thir- 

 teen stations, and b>- May 1 (fig. 3) had been reported by all but three 

 of our observei's. 



Mr. Otto Herman's paper in Proc. Fourth Internat. Ornith. Congress, 

 p. 163, was not received until after my diagrams had been prepared. 

 In it he adopts practically the same plan in illustrating the migration 

 of the Swallow in Hiuigary, and as his maps are leased upon 5900 

 returns, it is needless to say they are far more convincing than mine. 



CoMP.\Ri.sox OF Records. 



As already stated most migration records so far obtained are the 

 work of one indivitlual at each locality. Now when we come to com- 

 pare the time of arrival of l)irds at two points or their arrival at the 

 same point on successive yeai"s, it becomes very important for us to 

 consider the extent to which such records reflect the actual progress of 

 migration. The discussion on determining dates of bulk movements in 

 the \'icinity of Philadelphia has alreadj' shown that while a date of 

 "first arrival" may be perfectly accurate for the limited area covered 

 by an observer, it would differ very materially from the earliest date 

 of arrival for the species in a circle of five or ten miles around that 

 observer's station. 



The work of the Delaware ^'alley Ornithological Club for the past 

 seven years has shown that within the Philadelphia ten-mile circle, 

 covering an area with but little variation in altitude, we can detect 

 no constant difference in the time of arrival of a species at anv two 

 points dependent upon their geographic position. 



The earliest record is just as likely to come from the northern porti(jn 

 of the circle as from the southern portion. At one time the records 

 seemed to show a slightly earlier date of arrival immediately along the 

 Delaware river, as compared with stations a few miles back on slightly 

 higlicr ground, but further data showed this difference to be purely 

 fortuitous. Therefore we can take the records of any one station 

 within this circle as representing the progress of migration at Phila- 

 delphia, just a-s well a.s those of any otiier station witliin tiie same 

 radiu.s, and presumably the average dates of arrival of a species for a 

 number of years at several stations within the circle will ])e the .^ame. 



l"or certain species which are very conspi('Uf)us and which usually 

 arrive in force on the first da}' of their appearance this is true, but in 

 the majority of species it is by no means so. 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



133 



Selecting three localitie.s within the ten-mile circle, at each of which 

 the Club has had several accurate observers for the past seven years, 

 we have the followino; dates of first arrival. I = Moorestown, X. J.; 

 II = Mcilia and Swarthmore, Pa.; Ill = Haverford and Ardmore, Pa. 



Chaetara pelagioa (Chimney Swift). 



I. 



1001 April 27 



1<H)2 



190;^ 



19()4 



I9()o 



1900 



1907 



Average. 



21 

 " 19 

 " 24 

 " 21 

 " 14 

 " 23 



April 21 



Tozostoma rafam (Brown Thrai-her). 



1901 April 22 



1!K)L' " 22 



190;i " 5 



HM)4 "17 



190.5. " 22 



1900. " 21 



1907. " 2S 



Average. 



Ai)ril 19 



Piranha erythromelas (Scarlet TanaKer). 



II. 

 A\m\ 27 



19 

 24 

 20 

 12 



April 21 



April 28 

 22 

 20 

 23 

 14 

 16 

 26 



April 21 



April 21 



April 18 



Average, 



Mar. 27 



Mar. 15 



Mar. 20 




134 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Or. tabulating the averages obtained as above for eleven species, 



we have: No. of days 



I. II. III. difiference. 



Chimney Swift April 21 April 21 April 21 



Phcebe Mar. 27 Mar. 15 Mar. 20 12 



Chipping Sparrow " 29 April 1 " 29 3 



Scarlet Tanagcr Mav 8 Mav 4 Mav 7 4 



Barn Sicalloiv April 19 April 19 April 22 3 



Black-throated Blue Warbler.M&y 5 Mav 2 Mav 3 3 



Ovenbird " 1 April 29 April 30 2 



Maryland Yellow-throat April 25 " 26 Mav 2 7 



Catbird " 28 " 25 April 30 5 



Broicn Thrasher " 19 " 21 " 18 3 



Wood Thrush " 30 " 27 " 29 3 



This demonstrates conclusively that the average date of arrival 

 for a niimberof years, based upon the observations of asingle individual, 

 varies materially from the average date obtained by another equally 

 accurate observer stationed but a few miles distant. The amount of 

 difference in the case of individual observers is even greater than that 

 shown above, as in these cases the record given for each of the three 

 stations is the result of the combined work of several observers. 



I called attention to the percentage of error in the records of indi- 

 vidual observers in a paper reatl l:)efore the American Ornithologists' 

 Union at New York in November, 1905, and during the Spring of 1907 

 Prof. W. W. Cooke made some experiments along the same line, and 

 his results showed that, compared with the combined work of twenty- 

 three other observers, in the immediate vicinity of Washington, D. C, 

 in this single season his dates of arrival averaged one and three- 

 tenths of a day late, and this in spite of the fact that he spent more 

 time in the field and covered a greater variety of country. In my 

 summar}' given above a single station averages one and nine-tenths 

 of a day later than the earliest average date recorded for tlie species. 



This information, however, does not help us in using the record of a 

 single observer for comparative study, either as between difTercnt 

 years or different station.s, and we are forced to the conclusion that 

 results base^l upon such individual records are really of but little 

 value for comparative work, so great is the po.ssibility of error. 



For instance, cjuoting from Prof. W. W. Cooke's papers on the 

 Migration of Warblers and Thrushes, as recordeil in the schedules of 

 the U. S. Department of Agriculture,' we have the average dates of the 

 arrival of the following species at Gcrmantown, Pa., a suburb of 

 Philadelphia, and at Washington, D. C»: 



' rUrrl Lore, 190!i-1907. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



Germantown. Washington. Difference. 



Wood Thrush May 1 April 26 Sdaj-s. 



Black-throated Blue Warbler Mav 6 Mav 2 4 " 



Ovenbird Mav 1- April 23 8 " 



Marjiand Yellow Throat AprU 29 April 21 8 " 



These dates being the averages of a number of years, would seem to be 

 sufficiently accurate for the purpose of estimating the time of flight of 

 the species mentioned between Washington and Philadelphia, and by 

 comparing them we find that it is respectively five days, four days, 

 eight days and eight days. The Germantown records quoted from 

 Prof. Cooke's papers are ba.sed upon sche<^lules which I filled out for 

 the Department of Agriculture from 1883 to 1890. I now find that 

 my dates vary from those obtained by other observers in the neighlDor- 

 hood of Philadelphia from 1901 to 1907, just as the latter have been 

 shown to vaiy from each other. 



Had any of the other records from the vicinity of Philadelphia been 

 usefl in place of the Germantown series, as would have been perfectly 

 justifiable, a very different result would have been obtained; and 

 there is no doubt but that the dates of several individual observers in 

 the vicinity of Washington would show just as much divei'sity as is 

 shown in our Philadelphia series, which would still further var}' the 

 re^iults. 



In a number of instances moreover the difference between the average 

 date of arrival at Washington and Philadelphia, as given in Prof, 

 Cooke's papers, is no greater than that between two stations well witiiin 

 the Philadelphia ten-mile circle. 



In comparing the dates of arrival of species for several coiLsecutive 

 yeai-s we also find a considerable variation in the records of nearb}' 

 stations which we should expect to show uniformity. 



For instance, taking the eleven species given in the table on page 134, 

 and computing the average dates of arrival for the six years 1901 to 

 1906 at each of the three stations, and then comparing these with the 

 dates of arrival at each of the stations in 1907, we find that at station 

 No. 1 the 1907 dates averaged three days late, while at station No. II 

 they averaged one day late and at station No. Ill they averaged 

 exactly normal, and yet each one of these stations was represented by 

 several acciu'ate observeivi, and there is nothing in their relative geo- 

 graphic position to warrant any difference. 



Combination of Individual Rhcord.s. 

 After discrefliting the value of individual records, one must naiur- 

 ' Omitt«-<l in Prof. Cooke's paper, and supplied from my own memoranda. 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



ally suggest some method of recording migration by which results 

 sufficiently accurate for comparative work are to be obtained. This, 

 I think, is to be fovmd by securing a large number of observers in a 

 limited area and by combining their results, as has been done by the 

 Delaware Valley Ornitliological Club in the vicinity of Philadelphia. 

 If we had seven-year records kept by thirty-five individuals within 

 t€n miles of Washington, and a similar series within ten miles of 

 Boston for comparison with the Philadelphia series, then I think we 

 should be able to estimate ^\-ith some degree of accuracy the progress 

 of migration between these points. 



In a composite record of this kind it is especially worthy of note that 

 more or less fragmentary records are of great value, as an observer 

 who only records a limited mmiber of species may note some of them 

 earlier than any other observer, while species which he fails to record 

 are notetl by others. 



The way in which a number of indvidual records from one vicinity 

 are to be combined in order to get the most reliable results is quite a 

 problem. 



Take, for example, the Ovenbird, Sciuru^ aurocapiUus. for the years 

 1905, 1906 and 1907, as recorded within ten miles of Philadelphia by 

 respectively thirty, thirty-two and thirty-four observers — the number 

 of the observation corps vank'ing somewhat from year to year. 



We find that in 1905 it arrived at one station on April 25; at another 

 on April 28; at eight stations on the 29th, ten on the 30th, etc., i.e. : 



1905— April 25, 28, 29 (8), 30 (10), Mav 2. 3. 4, 6, 7 (2), 8, 12 (2). 

 1906— April 28 (2), 29 (7), 30 (4), Mav 1 (5). 2 (3), 3 (4), 4 (2), 5 (3), 



8, 12. 

 1907— April 26 (2). 27. 28 (4), 29 (5), 30 (2). Mav 1 (5). 2 (2). 5 (4). 6. 8, 



11 (4), 12, 13, 15. 



If we select the earliest date for each year as the basis of our com- 

 parison, we shall :say that 1905 was the earliest season and 1906 the 

 latest. The objection to this is that it considers only the earliest 

 stragglers, whose movements may or may not reflect those of the bulk 

 of the species. 



If we select the average of all the dates for each year we shall have 

 for 1905 May 2, 1906 May 2, 1907 May 3. or 1905 eariiest and 1907 

 latest. The objection in this ca.se is that some at least of the late 

 dates of arrival represent errors of observation — i.e., failures to detect 

 the species until it had been present for some days — while others are for 

 stations which are not congenial haimts of the species under considera- 

 tion and at which it is only occasionally seen, and by including these 

 in our computation we obviously make the resultant date too late. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 137 



After consifleratinz many methods it seems that the be.st date to 

 select is that upon waich the species had arrived at half of the stations, 

 leaving out of consideration entirely the la.st quarter of the stations 

 that recorded the species, in order to eliminate the probably erroneous 

 or misleading dates. 



Dropping the last quarter of the stations in the case of the Ovenbird, 

 we shall have left for consideration in the three years twenty-three, 

 twenty-four and twenty-six records respectively, i.e. : 



1905— April 25. 28, 29 (8), 30 (10). Mav 2. 3. 4. 



1906— April 28 (2), 20 (7), 30 (4). Mav 1 (5), 2 (3). 3 (3). 



1907— April 20 (2), 27, 28 (4), 29 (5), 30 (2). May 1 (5). 2 (2). 5 (4). 6. 



The dates by which the species had reached half these stations will 

 then be 1905 April 30. 1906 April 30. 1907 AjiHl 30. This is perhaps 

 a poor example a-< the Ovenbird is such a regular migrant. Indeed a 

 mere glance at the records will show that the bulk of arrivals occurred 

 in 1905 on April 29 and 30. in 1906 on the same days and in 1907 on 

 April 28 and 29, which represents almost the same thing.' 



In other cases, however, the massing of arrivals upon a few days is by 

 no means so evident, and some such method as the above is absolutely 

 necessary. For example: 

 Pipilo erythrophthalmns (Towhee). 

 19(J5— March 24. April 11 (2). 12 (2). 14 (3). 18. 19. 20. 21 (2), 22 (2), 



23 (3). 24. 25 (3). 20 (2). 29. 30. 

 1906— March 6. April 7, 12, 15 (3). 16, 17, 19 (4). 20. 21 (5). 22 (3), 23, 



24. 25 (2). 27 (2). 30 (2). May 8. 

 KK)7— March 23. 30 (2). April 3, 4, 6, 14, 16, 20, 24, 26 (5), 27 (3), 28, 



May 1,4.5,6. 



Rejecting the last cjuarter of the records in eacji year and selecting 

 the middle one of those remaining, as before, we get: 

 1905 April 19. 1906 April 19. and HM)7 April 20. 

 Hirundo erythrogastra (Bam Swallow) 



1905— April 7. 20 (3), 21 . 23 (3). 24. 25 (3). 27. 29. 30 (4). Mav 6. 7. 9. 

 HM)6— Ai)ril 11. 12. I I. 17. l'.>, 21 (2). 22 (3). 25 (4). 26, 28 (2), 30, 



Mav 3. 6. 19. 

 l'.K)7— .March 27. April 6. 20. 21, 22 (2), 24 (3). 26 (2). 27, 28 (3), 30, 



May 1.2. 4.5(3). S (2). 10. 11. 12. 14. 



1!H)5 April 23. 1906 April 22. IIHH April 2(). 

 Tozottoma rafum 'Drown Thr»i>her). 



I'.M»5-Apnl9. 13. 14(2), 16. 18(2). 19 (2). 21 (2). 22 (6), 2;i (3), 2i ( J), 

 25(2),2(). 2U.30, May3. 



' While thf migration of 1907 van very late, so for > '!•«■ April ami all 



Ow May inifcruntH wtTf roiicemc<l, a wavo jvwt at. tin^ m'u. .'loiiglit tin- « >vfii- 

 hirdn at their norinni clato. 




13S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



1906— March 0. April 10. 16. 17 (2), 19 (3). 20, 21 (4), 22 (3), 24 (2), 



25 (2). 26. 27. 28 (2). 30. May 1 (2). 5. 6. 

 1907— March 13. 17. April 20. 23. 25. 26 (6). 27 (7), 28 (2), 29 (2), 30 



(2), May 1 (3). 2. 3, 4 (2), 5. 8, 11 (2). 

 1905 April 22. 1906 April 21, 1907 April 27. 



The aboye plan giyes us a definite date for all sorts of comparisons 

 and one which is independent of the personal equation. The term 

 "became common" may mean a different thing to each indi\'idual, but 

 the date upon which a species reached half of the stations at which it 

 was obseryed represents a definite point in the increase of its abundance, 

 and is a matter of record and not of opinion. 



As so little has been attempted in the way of combining local migra- 

 tion records, I find it difficult to discuss the comparatiye yalue of dif- 

 ferent methods. Some casual allusions by Prof. Cooke to the methods 

 employed by him form indeed the only contribution to the subject 

 with which I am familiar. He recognizes the danger of including the 

 latest dates of arriyal in computing ayerages and rejects them, just as 

 I haye adyocated aboye, but in deciding how many to reject his method 

 seems to lack definiteness and to inyolye the personal equation. He 

 says {Auk, 1907, p. 347), " When using migration records for the calcula- 

 tion of ayerage dates of arriyal. I usually discard dates that are more 

 than six days later than the probable normal date of arriyal." This 

 would seem to imply an arbitrarj' selection of "the probable normal" 

 date before any ayeraging is done, which seems to be a dangerous 

 method. Again, in referring to the combination of the obseryations 

 of twenty-three observers at Washington. D. C, in the Spring of 1907, 

 he saj's, " Many of the notes were duplicates or of ?w value, but after all 

 these had been eliminated," etc. [Italics mine]. This is exactlj' the 

 reverse of my method, instead of rejecting "duplicate" records, 

 these seem to me to be of the utmost yalup as pointing to the dates 

 upon which the greatest migration took jilace. It must, howeyer, be 

 borne in mind that Prof. Cooke in this instance is ascertaining the 

 earliest date — not the date of Inilk arrival which, as just explained, 

 seems to me a more reliable ba.sis for comparison of migration between 

 two distant points, but one which, as 1 have also explained, is practically 

 impossible in the absence of a large corps of observers at each point. 



CJHAPHir Representation' of Migration. 



In the Auk for 1889 (p. 139) and 1891 (p. 194) I published some 

 papers on the Graphic Representation of Bird Migration, based in 

 part iipon rerf)rds of the Dchiware X'allcy Ornithological Club for 1890. 



The attempt woi* made at this time to record the actual number of 

 individuals or the relative 'abundance of certain species, as noted each 




190S.] NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



clay In- five oteervers. and by plotting the daily totals a chart was 

 obtained representing the fluctuations of the migration, which was 

 shown to correspond to rises an<l falls in the curve of temperature 

 variation for the same period. In my Birds of Eastern Pennsylvariia 

 and New Jersey, 1894 (p. 28). a like method was employed. 



Similar and probably much more accurate results may l)e obtained by 

 plotting a curve basetl upon the total "first arrivals" within the ten- 

 mile circle as reported by our Philadelphia migration corps for each 

 day of the Spring. 



In the following diagrams such curves are shown for the years 1902 

 to 1907, accompanied hy curves of temperature variation based upon the 

 mean daily temperature at Philadelphia as recorded by the United 

 States Weather Bureau, together with an indication of the days upon 

 which rain or snow fell. For this meteorological data I am under obli- 

 gations to Mr. T. F. Townsend, Director of the Pennsylvania Section, 

 U. S. Weather Bureau. 



In the early part of the season it will be noticed that "waves" of 

 migration follow closely after marked rises in temperature, but later on 

 at the height of the May migration the great " waves " or " rushes " often 

 occur without any corresponding temperature increase. 



It is well known that birds do not start to migrate (in a rainy night, so 

 that it is natural to expect sudden drops in the migration curves to be 

 correlated with spells of rainy weather, and such is often the case. 

 Inasmuch as birds are sometimes overtaken by rainstorms after 

 starting on a clear evening, they often arrive at a locality simultane- 

 ously with the rain, and as it is not po-ssible to indicate in the diagrams 

 the exact time and extent of the daily precipitation allowances must 

 be made for some ajiparcnt discrepancies in this respect. 



In the following diagrams the vertical lines represent the da}'s from 

 February 15 to May IS, while the horizontal lines denote five degrees 

 difference in the temperature curve and ten units difference in the 

 migration curve; a unit in the latter curve being a "first arrival" record 

 at some one of the stations within ten miles (»f Pliilailelphia. Thus if 

 the migration curve reaches ten on a certain ilay it means ten first 

 arrivals, i. e., one species recorded for the first time at ten stations, 

 two species at five stations each, or ten different species (>ach reconled 

 at a single station a^ the ca-^e may be. Pericxls of rainy weather are 

 indicated by the broken line inmiediately below the diagram, marked 

 "rain." Each migration is (livi<letl into two sections place<l opposite 

 to each other, so that the curves run acro.ss both pages, with the 

 comments below. In each chart the upper curve represents tempera- 

 ture variation, the lower migration. 




140 



PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



Ro«A — 



In 1*J()2 the temperature rose steadily from Fel)riiary 10 to Marcii 1, 

 and a marked migration occurred Febriiar>^ 27 to March 1. consisting 

 mainly of the l)ulk movement of Purjile Grackles and Robins. 



The mean temperature during March was 46°. six degrees above the 

 normal ; the highest figures being on March 1. 12, 16, 23 and 29. Marked 

 migratory movements occurred on March Kl-ll. March 23. and March 



fUn 



In the season of 19(>3 there \va>< an almost unbroken lise in tempera- 

 ture from Februar>' 19 to February 2S. most rapid from the 25th to the 

 end of the mf)nth. The btilk mf)vement of Robins ami l'ur|)le fJrackles 

 Unik place on the 27th, accompanied this yenr by a considerable migr;i- 

 tif)n of Fox Sparrows. 



The mean temj)crature durint: .Mareh was 49° — unusually high ;md 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



141 



t90Z 



Raif* 



29, the Fox Sparrow l^eing a characteristic species of the first move- 

 ment, the Chippiiifi Sparri)\v ami Phfi'be of the other two. April was 

 hut little above tlic normal temperature, the marked increa.'^e beinp; on 

 the llth,2.'i(l and i^Otii.with corro.-^pondinfr migration on Ajiril 12. 13, 

 21-22. 26. and May 1. The May movement continued until the 4th, 

 broken on the 3d bv rain. 



iWrt — 



only e(|ualle(l once in the previous thirty yeai"s. 'J'here was only one 

 well-marked wave durini; the month, on the loth, ffdhiwinj: the hi^h 

 temperature which culminated on the 14th, 



In .\pril the coincidence of migration waves and increases in teini)or- 

 ature will be noticed on April \). 1!), 25 ami 30. with the urcat May 

 movements on May 5 and S. 




142 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



Ram _- 



The early warm wave in 1904 occurred Feljruary 22-24, but brought 

 only the first arrival of Robins, with no evidence of migration in other 

 species. The rain which prevailed at the time no doubt checked any 

 general movement. The weather during March was normal and the 

 rises in temperature, which culminated on March 3, 7, 13, 20 and 26, 



Roio __ 



In 19(J5 there was no February migration. Tlic rise in temperature 

 on March S brought the first migratory movement which was checke<l 

 by rain, but resumrnl again on .March 11. Higji toniporature .March 

 lG-19 brought two migratory movements. Kain in -\pril at the time 

 of sudden ri.ses in temperature seems to have broken up the regularity 

 of the migration or held it in check, and perhaps },{i,l something to d(t 




lOOS. 



NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



143 



_ Rain 



were followed by migrating movements on March 5, JS, 13. 20 and 27. 

 In April the principal movements on the 10th and 25th corresponded 

 to market 1 increa.ses in temperature, while the great May waves 

 occurred on the 1st and 6th. 



R<l.r 



with the proportions of the wave of April 30, which followe*! the last 

 spell of rainy weather and wa*^ the most extensive Ai)nl ninvoment that 

 our records show. The .May waves ocrurre*! nn the 'M and 7th. 



The correspondence in the migration curves for 1904 and 1005 is 

 romarkal)le. the movements being about the same in number and 

 e.xtent and nearlv the same in time of occurrence. 




144 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



In 1906 the steady rise in temperature February 15 to 21 caused 

 one of the most extensive February migrations of which we have 

 record. In March, on the contrary, there was no movement of conse- 

 quence, notwithstanding two considerable temperature increases 

 culminating on the 4th and 26th. 



The explanation of this is to be found in the fact that birds that 

 usually form the early March waves had already advanced with the 



fiain ^ 



In V.H)7 there was no February migration whatever. March was 

 rather warmer than usual, and the five well-marko<l waves correspond 

 with unusual exactness to temperature increases. The phenomenal 

 cold of early April bntught migration to a standstill, folhmcd by marked 

 waves on April 21, A}>ril 26 and May 1, following increase^ iniempera- 

 ttire culminating on April 26 and lii). The contiiiue<i cold weatiier of 

 .May flelaye<l the great migrat(»ry movements of that month until 

 May 11-12 when the birds went through in a LMvat throdir. irrespective 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 



145 



great February iiKjvement, and there were no species ready to respond 

 to the favoraljle conditions in March. 



Hiiili temperature on April 5 was accompanied by rain and migra- 

 tion was not apparent until April 6 to 8 when there was an extensive 

 movement. Another occurreil on the I3th, while the high tempera- 

 ture of April 21 was followed by a wave on the 22d. which was resumed 

 on April 25 after a cold rain. The greatest movements were April 

 2n-Mavl..Mav3an<lMav5. 



ttloijiS 



of falling temperature with frost on the morning of May 12. The la5t 

 May wave did not occtir until the l*)th. 



In this sra-^on wo have an example of the difficulty of characterizing 

 an entire migration as early or late. The beginning of the movement 

 wa^ late, while most of the March dates t if arrival were remarkably early ; 

 early April mitrrnnts were late, but the great movements at the close 

 f)f the month brought conditions nearly to the normal, while the May 

 njigrants were phenomenally late. 

 10 




146 PROCEEDIN'GS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Waves and Their Components. 



Accepting the fact that the migrator}- movement advances by 



"waves" or "rushes." — that is to say that the bulk of the migration 



at each locality occurs on certain nights or series of nights, — the 



/question naturally arises :^To what extent are the several "waves" in 



successive yeai's composed of the same species? 



A stud}' of the migration curves will show that there are from eleven 

 to fourteen prominent waves during the Spring, taking into considera- 

 tion only those which show ten or more arrivals* in February and 

 March, fifteen to twenty in April, and thirty to one hundred in May. 

 These seem to me to be the only movements worth}' to be styled waves, 

 although some have used the term to indicate far less marked move- 

 ments, while ()thei"s use it only for the most extensive migratory flights.'' 



Selecting forty-seven common species for which we have the fullest 

 data, and noting such migratory activity' as is indicated by each on 

 the wave-<lays for the years 1904 to 1907, we find a remarkable corre- 

 spondence in the species which make up each wave. And the same 

 "wave" may be recognized through a number of years by its com- 

 ponent species, though its date may vary considerably. Sometimes a 

 movement may be interrupted by unsuitable weather and be resumed 

 again later, making two apparent waves in one year which correspond 

 to one in other yeai's. Or when conditions are exceptionally favorable 

 early in the season, the species which usually compose Wave II, for 

 instance, may push forward and form part of Wave I; and although 

 conditions at the normal time of occurrence of Wave II may be favor- 

 able there will be no movement, simply because all the species usually 

 migrating at that time have passed on. 



It seems then that certain species migrate together, advance strag- 

 glers of some accompanying the bulk movements of othei"s, and that 

 each species is ready for migration at approximately the same time each 

 year, the exact date depending upon a favorable combination of 

 meteorological conditions. 



The following tables will show uhicli of the forty-seven selected 

 Bpecies composetl tiie various waves for the four years for which we 



•"Arrival " hore liftH thf witnc Hifjnifioance an explained on page 193. 



' Cf. Twenty-five Years c»f Bird MiRnitioii at .\nn Arbor, Michigan, by N. A. 

 WcmkI, kiijhlfi AthiiuiI RvjK>rt Mir/i. Acad. Scl. 



* r»>mlly only the "first arriv:il" within the I'liila<lel|)liia eircle and tlie one 

 or more marked bulk niovi-ments are eonsidered, but somi-time.s wlicn tiie first 

 arrival wa« a verv earlv ^traKgler the second arrival is alsf> noted. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 147 



have the fullest data. Many other less common species arrived on the 

 various '' wave-days." but their inclusion in the tables would only 

 tend to confusion an<l would obscure the point that I wish to demon- 

 strate. Where a species has been omitted in any year it is because 

 it failed to arrive on one of i\\e wave movements, or because the bulk 

 movement was scattered and not concentrated on a "wave-day." The 

 scarcity of such omi.ssions, however, illustrates to what an extent the 

 migration is concentrated on a comparatively small number of days. 



" First arrival " in these tables denotes the first individual to be 

 reported anywhere within the ten-mile circle. 




14S 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



03 



ill 



C5 



C^ r-' 



^^ 







fc£ 



c 



^ 



c — 



O 03 . 



:= 9 c j5 



>— 1 I— I ►il 1-1-1 



c3 





.-. 03 



^ 







^ 



o 



3 O 



C5 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



149 



s. 



:s >» 



r > 



'^ 



-^^ 

 P 



- iC -. 



CO 



- tt. 



a - 



8 ■^.^- 



eo 



c c 



OS 



3 



^ tic 





05 



5 x 

 X t"^ 



-r '^ r c 



03 

 tiD 





0^ 



8^ 



^ 



3 



«x 



d u .S 



42 



I 




150 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 





ii^ 



^ ^ 'X — t.' ^ 



[April, 



_^ 



c 



•7 _ '^^ 



"- H^ 



^ 



S 





g^ =x 



X =: 



•^ ^ 





■»«. y. — 



> -3-Ha^ 





Es: 







+ 



=: :c o > > 



- c t." -C 



u 



^ . • d i ^ 



-r- :: --^^ ^ -^ ^ :! 



?- "? 5 =i '^ J = -r 





+ -^l?ts 








190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 151 



Wave VIII. 



1904. 1905. 1906. 1907. 



April 23-26. ' April 22-25. April 21-25. April 26-28. 



First Arrivals — Nine species have arrivetl on this wave in at least 

 three of the four veal's, i.e., Scarlet Tanager, Yellow Warbler, 

 Black-throated Green Warbler, Ovenbird, Water Thrush, House 

 Wren, Catbird. Wilson's Thrush and Wood Thrush. Five othei"s 

 arrived in two out of the four sea.sons, i.e., Rose-breasted Giosl>eak, 

 White-eyed Vireo, Redstart, Marjiand Yellow-throat and Yellow- 

 breasted Chat. 



Bulk Movement — The bulk of this wave coniprisetl the same seven 

 species in each of the four years, i.e., Chimney Swift, Barn Swallow, 

 Black-an(l-"\\1iite Warl)ler. ^Myrtle Warbler, Mar\'land Yellow- 

 throat, Brown Tiirasher and House Wren. To these are to be added 

 the Yellow Warbler in 1904 and the Ovenbird in 1907. 



Wave IX. 



1904. 1905. 1906. 1907. 



April 29-May 1 April 29-30. April 29-Ma>/ 1. Mo>i 1-3. 



+ Moy3. 



First Arrivals — Si.x species arrived on this wave each year, i.e., lialti- 

 more Oriole, Kingbird, Red-eyed Mreo, Blue-winged Warbler, 

 Magii*)lia Warbler. Panila Warl)ler, and in three of the four years 

 Great Crested Flycatcher, Indigobird, Yellow-throated Mreo, Black- 

 throated Blue Warbler. 



Bulk .Movement — Seven species were abundant during this wave in 

 each of the four years, i.e., Black-throate<l Green Warbler, Redstart, 

 Water Thrush, Ovenbird, Catbird, Wilson's Thrush and Wood 

 Thrush, ami in three of the four the follow Warbler and Scarlet 

 Tanager. 



Wave X. 



l'.»()4. 1905. 1906. 1907. 



Man 5-8. Mail 3+7. Maij 5-0. May 8 + 10-12. 



First Arrivals — Species usually arriving on this wave Chestnut-sided 

 Warbler. Blackburnian Warbler, Canada Warbler, Black-poll Warbler, 

 W(i(h| I'ewee, Hununingbinl, Yellow-bille<l Cuckoo. 



Bulk Movement— In all four years Baltimore Oriole, Wood Pewee, 

 (Jreat Crestcil Flycateher, Indigo-bird, Roso-breasted Grosbeak, 

 Scariet Tanager. R«M|-«y«Hl \ireo. White-eye* 1 \irec.. Vellow-breasteti 




152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Chat. Chestnut-sidcrl Warbler. In three of the four years Blue- 

 winged Warbler, Black-throated Green Warbler, Black-throated 

 Blue Warbler, Magnolia Warbler, Black-poll Warbler, Kingbird. 



Wave XI. 



1904. 1905. 1906. 1907. 



May 10-11. May 12. May 12-13. May 19. 



Bulk Movement in all four years— Yellow-billed Cuckoo, Hummingljird, 



Wood Pewee, Magnolia Warbler, Blackburnian Warbler, Black-poll 



Warbler and Canada Warbler. 



Six Years Records at Philadelphia. 



The following tables present a summary of the arrival dates of the 

 ninety species which are printed upon the schedules of the Delaware 

 Valley Ornithological Club for the j'cars 1902 to 1907, based upon the 

 records of from twentj'-five to thirty-five observers for each j'ear, all 

 located within ten miles of the center of Philadelphia. 



Under "first arrival" is given the average date of the first observa- 

 tion reported b}' any of the observer, and also the earliest and latest 

 first arrival for the six years under consideration. Under "bulk 

 arrival" is given the date for each jTar when the species had been 

 reported at half the stations, computed as explained on page 137, and 

 also the average of these six dates. In some cases the data were too 

 meager to warrant this computation, in which instances the dates are 

 omitted and only first arrivals given. In a few species, marked b}'' an 

 asterisk, dates which obviously referred to winter residents have been 

 rejected, while in the case of the Long-billed Marsh Wren, Pine 

 Warbler and perhaps a few others the data are probably not sufficient 

 to give accurate results, the species being rare or local. 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



153 




154 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 




1908.] 



NATLHAL SCIENCKS OF PHILADELPHIA. 



155 



pq 





*-: »^ -^ «^ ■ 



1^ .- -r t^ I 



*5 .«j^ --: T 



1*5 : ,<s T 





«5 *« ■«« »ir. "T; *5 *S «5 





lA-^.iA *a,«a 









1.1 



^, ''i .^ «_ 



x. x. t^ -r --z. 



"^i I >. >. 



Cm 



h- :C '-'^ o 

 CI CI ri — 







L. i_ u u 



'J' OOP 0'-'«0«5Q-< 



*. 1- L« L. 



I_ U ,.'. ,». , 



II 



II: 







'-5 i b 



J? 







5:^y 



JZ, "S. ^ ^ 



<3"^ 5 

 ■^' r- £1 



? 5 











i 



s 



ill 



E I « irt 





2 S C ; 



u — - 



Ql /f . i i J i 



~iC;i ^ ;i: 5 i^ ::S ;?; 




156 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April 



•a 



> I « 



^ ^ ^ tJ C iJ 



X >> >. >M_' v." 



IS S r: sj c, s, 



s ?, ~ :? < < 



>i >^. >". fc. L.' U 



s s s < << 





tl >. >. >% >1 u u >. 



C r: r: n r: q, S c3 



U !- ''■ ''. 





>. >. U U t^ !-■ 



>1 >. >1 1." iJ u 



>. >. >.!.■ U U 



>. >-. >. >. u 



•w C) " 



L. U U 



~ 5i ri ri ?i 



>t>.C V.' l^ u 





5s| f-i i-> 1— I CC CJ CI M d C^l .-1 .-c »-i 

 i^ >-, u u ^ tJ u u u u u ^ i: ^ J3 



M ri cj CI '-' CI ci ec —■ i^ 





^ ~ r» ■» t«« ■=• 



•C f -5 C i- 



S 



3 It-i 



2 'S § 

 5 ~ t- 



«-^ 

 >- c ^ 



ax 



2> 







C 3 



'■^ £ -~ -~ -2 



"^ "^ — 

 c ■'■ - 



■-.•7HH 





T = r r £ s 



2 c 



? s = £.-= ;r= 





^i 





"i ~ 15 5 2 «■§ ^-"f 5. >. r ^ F-i"^ 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. lo, 



May 5. 



Arthur Erwin Brown, ScD., Vice-President, in the Chaii-. 



Thirty-four persons present. 



On the nomination of the Council, Profs. Henry F. C>>boni, 

 Amos P. Brown, Richard A. F. Penrose, Jr., Fredorick Prime and the 

 President of the Academy were appointetl on the Ha3-den Memorial 

 Committee. 



The death of Heniy B. Medlicott, a Correspondent, April 6, 1905, 

 was reported. 



Dr. Spencer Trotter made a communication on points in the 

 anatomy of tiie Apes, special attention beinp j;iven to divergencies in 

 the musculature. (No abstract.) 



May 10. 



Arthur Erwin Brown, ScD.. \ i(('-l'rcsid(>nt, in the Chair. 



Thirty persons present. 



John W. Harshhergeh, Ph.D., made a conummication on the geo- 

 graphical study of bud opening in coimoction with isothcnnal lines. 

 (No abstract.) 



II 




15S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



bevision of north amehican spiders of the family lycosidje. 



hv ralph v. chamberlin. 



Table of Contents. 



PAGE 



Introduction 158 



Lists of dpseribed North .\merican Lycosidae 163 



The P'aniily Lycosidre 165 



Key to Genera 169 



Tlie Genus Pardosa : 



Definition 170 



Key to species 172 



Description of species 174 



The Genus Schizocosa". 



Definition ; 210 



Key to species 212 



Description of species 212 



Tlie Genus Lycosa : 



Definition 220 



Key to species 223 



Description of species 226 



Tiie Genas Ailocosa : 



Definition 284 



Key tosj^ecies 285 



Description of species 285 



The Genus SosippiLs : 



Definition 292 



Description of species 293 



TUe Genus Tralx-a : 



Definition 295 



Description of species 296 



Tlie Genus Sosilaus : 



Definition ..■ 298 



Description of species 298 



The Genus Virata: 



Definition 299 



Key to sp<'cie8 301 



De>cription of species 301 



Explanation of Plates 316 



Imkoduction. 

 The Lycosidii form one of the most successful of all families of 

 spiders. Their common names of wolf and running spiders indicate 

 their dominant trait**. All live close to the earth, roaming freely and 

 l.oldly, and with rare exceptions captnring their prey l)y the chase 

 rather than i)y means of webs or other strategy. They are among the 

 most familiar and widely diHtribiittMl of spiders. The Piratas and 




1908.] NATLRAL SCIEN'CKS OF PHILAOKI.IMII A. 159 



most of the small and excessively active Pardosas keep close to the 

 water, when alarmed running out freely over the surface, in 

 adaptation to which action their tai"si are specialh' modified in the 

 arrangement of haii-s and bristles. The larger Lycosas may mingle 

 their colore with those of the dried leaves and twigs of the woods, 

 lurk beneath the stones of roadside and field, wander in the open or 

 burrow in the sand of the seashore or the soil of the plain. Eveiy- 

 wiiere they are familiar; not because of large number of species, nor 

 because of their bold open habits, but especially because of the 

 excessive abundance of individuals resulting from successful adapta- 

 tion to conditions widely available. 



All true spidei"s depend upon living animals, mostly insects, for food. 

 Since they ingest only the body juices of their prey, what seems at 

 first an amazing (juantity <^)f insects is required to satisfy their nutritive 

 needs. Most spiders have met this requirement through the develoi> 

 ment of iastinct and skill, accompanied of coui-se by those stnictural 

 modifications necessary for their effective exercise, in the construction 

 of webs. The line of tlivergence of the Lycosida', however, has been in 

 the direction of capacity for taking prey by the chase. The high arched 

 ccphalotiiorax and the long stout legs plainly i)espeak strength and 

 speed. Hut strength and speed alone would be quite ineffective 

 without the simultaneous development of the sensory system. to enable 

 the spidei-s to detect and with some certainty to follow their prey. 

 Such development has affected strongly the sight; other senses, except- 

 ing touch, being seemingly but feebly developed. This is manifest in 

 the differentiations in size and arrangement of the eyes. It ha.s been 

 shown that the arrangement of the eyes is such as to make the animal 

 aware of movements witiiin its limit of vision in front, at the sides 

 aii«i through a considerable arc Ix'hind. the arc directly forward being 

 covered particularly well. The eyes fall very clearly in three rows. 

 The fii-st row, situated across the lower part of the face, is composed of 

 four small eyes placed in different planes; the second of two eyes, large 

 in size and directed autcro-laterally ; the third of two niedium-sized 

 eyes situat(Hl farther l)ack (»n the paiv cephalica and directe<l latcro- 

 raudally. This arrangement of the eyes is api)arently a.^sociat«d 

 with the characteri.stic elevation of the pars cephalica. The high 

 dorsally narrowe<l ce|)halothorax and the placement of the eyes m 

 tiiree distinct rows its (U»scril)(Hl are features liv which the Lticoauhr 

 are usually to be detected at a glance. Other charactei-s serving with 

 those mentione«l to distinguish memlH^rs of this family are the three 

 claws of the tai>i. the notching of the trochanters at the outer cnA 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [M^y, 



beneath, and the excavation of the posterior piece of tlie superior lonnn 

 of the abdominal pedicel. 



Most of the wolf spiders build no webs of any kind for ensnaring their 

 prey. A few forms (Sosippus, Hipposa), however, construct sheet 

 webs over stones and low bushes with central, funnel-like retreats, 

 much like those of some A gel enidoe. In these web-constructing forms 

 there is a strong development of the superior spinnerets. similar to that 

 in the latter family. 



The females without exception enclose their eggs in cocoons, which 

 they carry about attached to their spinnerets until the young hatch. 

 After hatching the young are carried about on the back of the parent 

 imtil able to shift for themselves with some degree of safety. In 

 making these cocoons the spiders first spin upon the ground a circu- 

 lar disk, which they enlarge usually until its diameter is about equal to 

 the length of their bodies. A suitable scaffolding of threads is con- 

 structed preliminar}' to the spinning of the disk. After the basal disk is 

 completed the spider presses out from the genital ducts upon the 

 center of the disk a drop of viscid fluid, into which the eggs are allowed 

 to fall. She then spins over the eggs a covering sheet, fastening its 

 edges to the basal disk. The cocoon is then cut loose from its attach- 

 ments by means of the chelicerae, the ragged edges are neatly taken 

 up and fastened to the wall of the cocoon, and over the whole fresh 

 threads are spun while the cocoon, held beneath the cephalothorax by 

 means of the third legs, is rotated by chelicerae and palps. The result 

 is a neat egg-sac, lenticular in form and showing a distinct seam (Par- 

 dosa), or spherical in form and either with a less distinct seam at equator 

 (Firata) or without a seam evident (Lycosa). 



As a rule the Lycosids born during any season pass the succeeding 

 winter in the half-grown condition, not reaching maturity until the 

 following summer or late spring. The smaller members of the family 

 live but a single year, and during this time build no retreats for them- 

 selves. The larger L^xosas, however, are known to live for several 

 years. Many of these buikl burrows, which they close upon the 

 approach of winter by means of plugs or lids. These burrows may be 

 mere shallow, nest-like excavations loosely lined with silk or may be 

 deeper, more skilfully executed tunnels. In some cases a rampart or 

 turret is built u|) about the opening of the burrow. a})parently to- 

 prevent the drifting in of dc^'bris, etc. This rampart may be compose*! 

 of particles of sand or earth, or of pieces of straw, grass or sticks, 

 Puperpose<l and bounrl together by means of silk. The same btirrow 

 may he occupied by a spider for several sca.'^ons, the occupant remodel- 




190S.]j NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



ling the burrow if injured In- accident, or enlarging it if outgrown (see 

 L. fatifera, etc.). 



The number of species and genera of Lycosidcc is very nuicli smaller 

 than would at first thought seem probable. These bold wanderers, with 

 their strong, long legs, the bjack spines upon which standing out 

 threateninglyduring excitement suggest their aggressiveness, spread out 

 pei-sistently in every direction. Isolation of any part of a species for 

 a long time would be expected to be rare, and the establishment of 

 distinct forms, therefore, so far as dependent upon this factor, in- 

 frequent. There are comparatively few species of wide distribution, 

 rather than a large number of limited range. This wide range of 

 speciefi is accompanie<l naturally by a great deal of fluctuating vari- 

 ability in many of their features. A result has been a surprisingly 

 large number of synonyms, consequent upon examinations of limited 

 number of specimens from wi<lely separated localities. For example, 

 species that range from New England to the West and far South 

 become lighter and lighter in coloration. In several species the 

 brightly colore<l individuals that prevail in Texa.s would appeal to 

 one at first a.s surely specifically distinct from the darker forms of the 

 North. But all gradations are found when sufficient material is studied, 

 e*<pecially in that from intemiediate regions, while apparently no sig- 

 nificant differences at all ap|)ear in less variable structural features. 

 Important variations are discussed in detail in the present work under 

 the respective species. 



In this connection a main source of difficulty ha.s been, indeed, the 

 placing of too great reliance upon purely relative characters that undergo 

 greater variation than has been recognized. p]ven in the treatment of 

 genera this purely relative nature of the characters commonly use<i has 

 left nuich room for diversity in opinion and usage. It is not, therefore, 

 really surprising to find that genera accepte<l without question by one 

 student are unhesitatingly denied by ot hoi's. Some genera that have 

 from time to time been proposed are clearly artificial, having, it would 

 seem, been erectcvl with a view to convenience rather than in an effort 

 to express genetic relationshij). 



All of the characters that hav(> been commonly wsai in separating, 

 f.f/.. Pnrdosa and Lyrnsd, somewhere become uncertain, the result 

 having \yQcn many incorrect references of specie.'*. And so, also, is it 

 with other genera. My own studies of the Lycosidct long ago convinced 

 iiic that the dearest and most definite characters for limiting not only 

 the species l>ut the genera of the Li/cosiila' xs well, are those presenttii 

 in the copulator>- organs. In the present contribution much reliance 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [MaV, 



is placed upon these charactei"s as indices of relationship. They have 

 not previously been usal in the tlefinition of genera. It has been 

 necessarj'^ to introduce a provisional terminology, perhaps sufficient 

 for present descrijjtive purposes, for pRrXs of the copulatorv organs. 

 Careful comparative studies on the morphology of the palpal organs 

 of male spiders are much needed to give us a consistent general 

 terminology. 



As here considered the portion of the family Lycosida in the fauna 

 of America north of Mexico includes eight genera: AUocosa, Pardosa, 

 iSchizocosa . Lt/coso , Trabea.Sosippus.Sosilous and Pirata. Li/cosa is more 

 comprehensive than the other genera and its species fall into a number 

 of natural but mostly intergrading groups. Of these groups one in 

 pfirt corresponding to l^ochosa of some authore is most divergent 

 and compact. (.See further under Lycosa.) Altogether, in the neigh- 

 borhood of one hundred and fifty specific names have been erected for 

 the forms under these genera ; but of these not more than half are really 

 "good." The species that 1 have been able to regard as distinct and 

 recognizable are distributed among the genera as follows: Trahea, 

 Sosippus and SosiloHs,esLC'h with one; AUocosa, five; Schizocosa, three; 

 Pirata, nine; Pardosa, seventeen; L?/cosa, thirty. 



Of the material studied mention should be made first of the section of 

 Lycosido' in the rich collection of Aranc(v at Conn'll Univei'sity,for the 

 privilege of using which and for other unfailing courtesies 1 am deeply 

 obligeil to Prof. J. H. Comstock. The Cornell collection includes not 

 only species from New York State and other parts of the North, but 

 also a gocxl representation of forms from the South and a number of 

 species from the West. My own collection consists of specimens 

 collecte<l in California. I'tah and New York by myself, and of a 

 large numljer from many different localities obtained through othei's. 

 Amr)ng those to whom it is a pleasure to make acknowledgments for 

 specimens are the ffdlowing: .M. Simon, France (spocinuMis from 

 Florida); Rev. F. (). P. Cambridge, England; .Mr. B. 11. Caiilbeaux, 

 Ix)uisiana; Miss Annie Jones. Georgia; Mr. A. .M. Bean, Iowa; Mr. C. 

 O. Crosby. .\ew York; Mr. T. H. SchefTcr. Kan.-^as; Mr. (J. W. Peckliam, 

 Wisconsin; JJr. (). .M. Howard. Itah : Prof. T. II. Montgomery, Texas. 

 For the loan of specimens and collections for study I owe my thanks to 

 •Mr. J. U. Fmerton, Boston; Mr. Sannicl llcnshnw, of the .Museum of 

 Comparative Zo(;logy, Boston; i'rof. C. .M. W'eetl, New Hampshire; 

 Prof. John liarlow, Rhcxle Island ; Mr. Charles Fuchs, of the California 

 Academy of ,*<ciences; i'rof. .M. T. Cook. Indiana; and Dr. W. .M. 

 Wheeler, of \\\c American .Mnscinn of .\:itiir;d Ilislorv, New ^'<irk. 




19(38.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



16::5 



For the privilege of studying the Marx collection in the U. S. National 

 Museum and various types in his own private collection, I am much 

 indebted to the courtesy of Mr. Nathan Banks. 



Li.sT OF DF:scRinED North American Lyco.sid.e. 



Genera. 



All()< osA Bks. 



Ardosa C. Koch = Lycosa Latr. 



Aulonia P^merton {aurantiaca) = 



Trabea Simon. 

 Geolycosa Mtg. = Lycosa T.atr. 

 Lcimnnia C. Koch = Pardnsa C. 



Koch. 

 Lycosa Latr. 

 Pakdosa C. Koch. 



FiKATA Sund. 

 Scaptocosd I^anks 



Mtg. 



ScHiZ(X'osA Chanib. 

 SosiLAUs Simon. 

 Sosipprs Simon. 

 Trahka Simon. 

 Trochosn C. Koch = Lycosa 



Gfolycosa 



Species of Allocosa. 



degesta Chamberlin. 

 eyagata, sp. nov. 

 ? rxd/hiild Becker. 

 funerea (Hentz). 



nigra (Stone) = rugosa (Keys.). 

 parva (Banks). 

 rugosa (Kcyserling). 

 sid)l(ita (Montgomery) = funerea 

 (Hentz). 



Species of LvrosA. 



alboliastata iim. 



(indluninn Mtg. = apicala Bks. 



apicata Hks. 



arenicola Sc. 



a.sp«'rsa licntz. 



avara i\.( vs. 



bahingtnnii Bl. = hdlxio W. 



baltinioriana Keys, (var.) 



beaiiii Vm\. 



bruiini ir( itdis liks. = kocliii Kcy^. 



caroliiieiiHis H. 



ciiiorea 1 ab. 



coloradensis Bks. 



cntdrlis liks. = lulhioW. 



romfnuids Km. = rmilini 11. 



tpigi/tuita .Mtg. = gulosd W . 



errafira IL 



cxitidsd Bks. = asprrsa. 

 fatlfna II. 

 florida.ia Bks. 

 florid iaiia )>k<. 



froiidicola I'm. 



f'uiiiosa l.ni. 



graiidis Bks. 



gulosa \V. 



helliio W. 



Idlripis Keys. = hdluo W. 



inhomstd (Keys.) = aspcr.sn II. 



insopild .Mtg. = gulosa W. 



immdiuldta Bks. = aspersa IL 



kocliii Keys. 



Idtifrons (.Mtg.) = fatiftrd IL 



\vuiii 11. 



h piild Keys. = crraliai II. 



litlordlis IL = cinercd Lab. 



nidritinui H. = cincrai Lab. 



millurti\y. = ? carolimnsix W. 



7n)sso}(ri'cusis IJks. = fat ifirii II. 



niodesta Keys. 



modcsld Th. = frondicola V.iu. 



niih'rola l^in. = hilluifW. 



ni<lif<x Mx. = artnicola Sc. 



nigroirntris Km. « jroudicoUi V.iw. 




IC4 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 



(>b!onga Bks. = aspersa H. 



penlitfi. 



permiinda Chamb. 



pikii Mx. = arenicola 8c. 



piulens Mx. = frondicola Em. 



pictilis Em. 



pilosa Ciir. = carolitiensis W. 



philadelphiana W., invalid. 



polita Em. = ruhicunda Keys. 



pratensis Em. 



pulchra (Keys.). = gxdosa W. 



purcelli Mtg. = gulosa W. 



propinqua Bl. = erratica H. 



puuctulata H. 



(luiiiaria Em. 



riparia Hentz. 



rubicuuda Keys. 



rujiventris Bks. = avara Keys. 



ruricola H. = /en/a H. 



sepulchralis Mtg. = modesta Keys. 



sagittala H. = erratica H. 



scalaris Th. = erratica H. 



scutulata Htz. 



sfl.vi W. = ? heUuo W. 



similis Bks = helluo W. 



texana Mtg. = carolinensis W. 



(var.) 

 tigrina McC. = aspersa H, 

 t'o/ra C. K. = ? Ae/hto Walck. 

 vulpina Em, = aspersa H. 



Walckexaek's Names of Species of Lycosa of the Abboti" and 

 Bosc Manuscripts. 



animosa. 



avida. 



discolor. 



eficarpata. 



grossipes. 



georgiana. 



georgicola. 



(Described in Ins. Apt., Vol. 1.) 



impavida. 



infesta. 



mordax. 



suspecta. 



triton. 



vehemeris. 



These names are all invalid, the descriptions having been based on 

 the unpublished drawings of Abbott and Bosc. 



Species of Pardosa. 



(dhomnruUitd Vaw. = qrcenlundica 



Th. 

 annidata Jiks. = saxatUis Bl. 

 atra Bks. 

 banks! Ohamb. 



hriiniirn Em. = var. oi inodicu Bl. 

 call torn ica Keys, 

 aimidcrtsi.f \i\. = milvina \\. 

 colorndensis Jiks. = stcnudis Tii. 



Ur-.). 

 (listinrta HI. 



d/frs(dis \ik>. ^ niarh( tizifinn Keys. 

 dromorn Tli. = granlnndirn Th. 

 em«»rtonl Chamb. 

 /Inrifiia Keys. = milvina Htz. 



floridami Bks. = banksi Chamb., 



var. 

 fuscula Th. = modica Bl. 

 furcifera Th. = modica Bl. 

 gUicialis Til. = modica Bl. 

 grcpiilandica Th. 

 impavida Th. = xerampelina Keys, 

 indi<i<drix Th. = granlandicu Th. 

 inirvpida Marx = grwnlandica Th, 

 ir(irini(lii'V\\. = grcctUandica Th. 

 labradorensis Th. 

 lapidicina I Jii. 

 lonii;ispiiiata Tnllg. 

 luivoln lOm. = distincta Bl. 

 littoralis Bks. = banksii Chamb. 




V.H)S. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



165 



niackenziana Keys. 



ynercurialis Mtg. = lapuUcina Em. 



niilvinaHtz. 



minimd Keys. = saxatilis H. 

 niodira Bl. 

 RKPsta Bks. 



mnntana Em. = xerampelina Keys. 

 niqrojmlpisYAW. = milvinali. 

 jxillida Em. = emertoni Chamb. 

 pfirvuhi Blcs. = saxatilisK. (var.) 

 pan X ilia Mts;. 



saxatilis Htz. 



sciia Mtg. = milvina. 



sinistra Tli. = groenknidica Th. 



sternalis Th. 



tachypoda Th. = xerampelina 



Ke>'s. 

 texana Bks. = lapidicina Em. 

 tristisTXi. = graenlandica Th. 

 iincata Th. = mackenziana Keys. 

 venusta Bk?. = lapidicina (Jrs.). 

 xerampelina Keys. 



Species of Pirata. 



<i(jih's Bks. = nwntanus Em. 



aspiraiis Chamb. 



bilobata (TuUg.). 



We</a/i.s .Stone = monianus Em. 



exifjufi Bks. = minuta. 



febrinilosji Becker. 



liuniicolus -Monts;. 



insularis Em. 



h'hrr .Mftntg. = insularis Em. 



marxi Stone. 



minuta Em. 



mon- 



montiina Em. 



montanoides Bks. = insularis Em 

 nigromaculatus Montg. = 



Uinus Em. 

 pro<li4;iosa Keys, 

 piratica (CI.) var. 

 sedentarius Mtg. 



Beck. 

 icacondana Sclief, 



(Beck.) 



utahemis, new. 

 = jebricxdosa 



= febriculosa 



Species of Schizocosa. 



bilineta (Emerton). 

 charonnides Mtg. = saltatrix H. 

 ffnicilis (Banks) = saltatrix 11. 

 /luniilis (Banks) = saltatrix H. 

 ocreata (Hentz). 

 orrcatd pulchra (Montg.) = bi- 

 tincdto. 



relucens (Montg.) = i-enustula 



(Hentz). 

 rnfa Keys. = ocreata Hentz ( 9 ). 

 saltatrix 



stonci .Montg. = ocreata Hentz. 

 venustula (Hentz) = saltatrix H. 

 verisimilis (yiontg.) = saltatrix H. 



spinieer Simon. 



floridanus Simon. 



anrantiara < limtiton). 



Species of Sosilais. 



Species of Sosippus. 



Species of Trauea. 



The Family I.yi osiu.k. 



Ccphnlolhorax ^A^)up,fitc^\, much longer than wide, attonuatcHl anter- 

 iorly. The para thoracica high and siibprismatic, narrow aljove and oval 




166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [MaV, 



in outline, witli the posterior border truncate and concave at the 

 middle; a distinct fine nie<lian sulcus which is rather long always 

 present, as are also more or less distinctly impressed radiating striae. 

 Pars cephalica elevate^l and arched, distincth'' separate<l from the pars 

 thoracica by cervical furrows which unite at an angle at the median 

 dorsal line, these more rarely indistinct above; pars cephalica with 

 front tnmcated or more or less obtusely rounde^l. The face high, 

 trapezifonn or, less commonl}', with the sides subparallel; in profile 

 vertical, or at least very steep. 



Eyes all of the diurnal type; always distinctly arranged in three 

 rows, of which the first is composed of four eyes and is located upon the 

 lower part of the face, the second composed of two eyes at the upper 

 part of the face or semidorsal in position, and the third, also com- 

 posed of two eyes, in a strictly doi"sal position; eyes of the first row- 

 small and comparatively close together, in a straight, procurved or 

 rarely recurved row, the lateral eyes on more or less evident tubercles 

 and with their visual axes directed antero- vent rally; eyes of second 

 row very large, occupying a transverse space, in most cases wider than 

 that of the first row, less commonly of the same length or shorter, their 

 visual axes directed antero-laterally; eyes of third row large, almost 

 always more widely separated than those of the second row. with which 

 they thus outline a trapeziform area (quadrangle of posterior eyes), 

 their visual axes directed more or less cau<lo-laterally. Clypcus com- 

 paratively narrow, always narrower than the width of the area out- 

 lined by the first and second rows of eyes (quadrangle of anterior eyes). 



Chclicerce long and robust, alwaj's vertical in position in both sexes; 

 at base a well-marked and rather large lateral condyle; both upper and 

 lower margins of furrow armed, the upper with two or, more commonly, 

 with three teeth, of which the median is much the largest, and the 

 lower margin with from two to four stout conical teeth; posterior 

 face always marked with a distinct ol>lique stria, along the inner side of 

 wliich, especially in the middle region, is a well-develoj)o<l. often 

 dense, pilose band ; iipper margin of furrow bordered with a sulxlease 

 pilose ban<l or fringe. 



Labium free; the ventral surface fiat or. much ukmc coMniionly, 

 convex; more or less attenuated anteriorly, with front margin truncate 

 or obtjjse; frf>m longer than wid<' to wider tiian long; much .shorter 

 than the endites. Enditcs longer than wide, more or less excavate<l 

 within and fitting over the sides of the labium, externally rounde^l and 

 never much narrowe<l at base; erect, never obli<iu<'ly incline<l ; dorsal 

 surface fiat or a little cojicavr; distally the su|)ra-('xternal l)order with 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 167 



a fine serrulate line or serriila;supcro-internal bonier with a dense pilose 

 band or scopula. 



Sternum longer than witle; larse, suboordiforin. beinir truncatcil in 

 front, roinided at the sidi'.s and attenuate to a point caudally. 



Legs long or moderately long, the fourth longest, then the fii-stjthe 

 third shortest in the great majority of cases ; but there are exceptions in 

 which the third legs are longer than the second, and othei"s in which the 

 second are longer than the fii"st. The femora, tibiae and metatai"si and 

 usually also some or all of the patella^ arme<l with spines; the anterior 

 tibia' with three pail's of spines beneath, less comhionly with two 

 {Pirata), and sometimes with a.s many as five {Sosilaiis) ; these and 

 other spines of the anterior logs often much reduce<l and sometimes 

 absent. 



In some small species the tarsi are beneath, all simply and rather 

 sparsely setose, but in most they are at least in part more or less 

 provi(le<l with scopuUe compose<l uniformly of fine, flat lanceolate 

 and slenderly pointed haire, never of distally enlarged hail's; in the 

 smaller species these scopula^ may Ix' i)resent only along the sides of the 

 ventral faces (jf the anterior tai^si; ])ut in the larger species {Sosippus 

 and most Lycosas) the entire ventral surface of the anterior tai'si is 

 densely scojnilate, and the metatai'si are usually similarly or less 

 densely scojjulate. and the tibia' are also sometimes .^copuhitc distally; 

 in these larger forms the posterior tarsi are scopiilate, but have their 

 scopuhe divide<l bj' a median line or band of setu'; never with dense 

 fa-sciculic at lja.se of daws. Tai'si bearing three claws, of which the 

 superior are strong and bro;i<l basally. and bear a scries of teeth from 

 five to .seven, rarely more, in number, thoe lu'ing mostly confined to 

 the ba^al half of the claws; the unpairc^l claw small, bent abruptly 

 downward, almost always naked, rarely with a single tooth. Trochan- 

 ters invariably notche<l or excavated at distal end beneath. 



.Superior loriim of the pe<licel of the abdomen compo.se<l of two prin- 

 cipal, very unequal pieces, of which the smaller ])osterior one is trun- 

 cate<l or somewhat concave behin<l, and in front is notclunl or exca- 

 vate* I for the reception of the angularly or roundly atteniiate«l posteri<»r 

 part of the longer anterior piece; at each side of the principal plates is 

 a slender, anteriorly atteniuite<l piece. 



Sjtinrirnts six in number; the anterior ones short and relatively 

 stout, contiguous or subcontiguous; the posterior more or less sepa- 

 Tiiittl from each other, mostly more slender than the anterior and cither 

 of the same length or longer, compose*! «»f two aiiicles, «»f which the 

 second is short and nMmde<l and usually subject to retraction within 




168 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



the fii'sJt. or les> commonly longer and conical (Sosippus); me<lian pair 

 slender, of moderate length. 



Body clothed with simple Aorr, or more rarely with some of plumose 

 type intermixed (Sossipus and some Pardosas). 



(ienital })late or epujynufn of the female mostly simple; either a simple 

 imfurrowecl plate or a plate depressed or furrowed longitudinally and 

 with the depressed area divided by a ridge-like elevation (guide), which 

 in the large majority of cases extends laterally on each side at its 

 pa-^^terior end. The transveree portion of the guide often (Lycosa 

 sens, str.) distinctly more elevate than the septal portion immedi- 

 ately in front of it and extending on each side to behind the openings of 

 the spermatheciE ; median piece of guide posteriorly and the transverse 

 pieces on anterior side with the upper free edges mostly more or less 

 extended horizontally in plate-like expansions, which are usually 

 narrow but may be wide (lateral plates or alee of guide). 



Palpus of the male long, differing uniformly from that of the most 

 nearly relatetl families {e.g.. Pisauridee and Agelenidce) in never having 

 femur, patella, or tibia armed with any manner of process or apophysis. 

 Tarsus or cymbium comj^aratively simple, boat-shaped ; completely 

 covering the bulb, the alveolus occupying usually not more than two- 

 thirds of the ventral area; terminal part of the tarsus acuminate and 

 bearing one. two, or rarelj' three mostly stout, always imtoothed 

 spines (transforme<l claws), occa.sionally imarmed. Bulb compara- 

 tively simple and compact; embolus only rarely exerted, in most 

 lying upon a special fold (ledus) at front of the larger basal lobe or 

 division, this ff)ld in many with a lol)e (avrinda) extending forward in 

 front of its exterior end ; lobe of the conductor bearing one to several 

 chitinous processes (tcuacula); cither an erect and conspicuous apo- 

 physis ( /-'iVa/a) or transverse, and appressed ; basal division of bulb bear- 

 ing strongly chitinize<l fold or apophysis (scopiis) in a median (Pardosa) 

 or exterior position (Lycosa), or with such fokl or apophysis absent or 

 btit weakly developed (Piratn), its absence or weak development being 

 correlate*! with the absence of furrow and guide in the epigynum of 

 the female; a chitinous plate or area (lunate area) at base of btilb 

 practically always exposed, the area being of varying size in the differ- 

 ent genera, but of quite constant relative extent and |)osition in each. 



The most simple and generalizcHJ condition is shown in Pirata. 



i>vn. lHl~. CHlgrndir Latr. (ad. rii.ix. p.irt.), iti ('ii\i<r, I{(^k"'' Animal, 

 ■ A, p. \)ri. 



1.S23. CiirnorcM Surid. (a«l. max. pait.), (Iin. .\i;m. .Succ, p. "JO. 

 1825. ('itiijrntliv Lair. (a<l. max. part.), Fam. .Nat. dc HApiic .Aiiim.-il, p. .'{1(». 

 1H33. /..»/r«.<tu/r« .Siiiid. (.■id. iruix. p;iit.). Cninj). .\raclm.. p. 2.'). 




190S.] NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA, 160 



1S.5<). Liicosidea ('. Korli (ad. max. part.), I'lKTsirlit d. Aiaclm. Syst. 



l.So2. Venatorefs Dolosicli. (ad. max. part.), Syst. Verz. Ocsten. Sp., p. S. 



1S69. Lycomida Thorell (ad. max. part.), On European Spiders, p. 1K.S. 



1876. Lyconida: Simon (excl. Dolomedes and Ocyale^, Arachn. France, 3, p. 

 223. 



. Lycosoidce Keyserling (excl. Dolomedes and Ocyale), Verli. z. I>. Ge.s. 



Wien, p. 010. 



1877. Lyco!>oid(e Tliordl. Bull. U. S. G. S. Terr., 3, p. 504. 



1885. Lffcosid(E Em. (excl. Dolomedes, Oxyopes and Ocyale^, Trans. Conn. 



Acad. Sci., 6, p. 481. 

 1890 Lycosidcr Marx (exfl. Dolomedes and Ocyale), Proc. I'. S. X. M., 12, 



p. 560. 

 1892. LyconidtT Bank.s (excl. Pisaurid/r), Can. Entoniologi.st, xxiv, p. 97. 

 1898. Lycoi^ida Simon, Hist. Xat. Araipn, 2. p. 317, 

 1903. Lycoffid(T Comstock, Classif. of N. A. Spiders, 

 1905. Lycottida Bunks, American Nat., p. 300, 318. 



Key to North America Genera of Lycosid.e. 



1. Anterior tibije armed beneath with five pail's of ver>- long spines; 



anterior eyes subcontiguons. in a rccurvp<l row dearly longer 



than the second Sosilavs. 



Anterior tibia^ armed l)eneath with less than five pairs of spines; 

 anterior row of eyes straight or procuned, 2. 



2. Lower margin of. furrow of chelicera armed with four stout conical 



teeth, Sosippu.s. 



Lower margin of furrow of chelicera armed with two or three 

 teeth, never with four, 3. 



3. Anterior row of eyes very strongly ju'oeurved, the me<lian eyes 



much farther from the lateral than from each (tther, Thahea, 



Anterior row (jf eyes not strongly procurved, the nuniian eyes 



little or mostly not at all farther from the lateral than from 



each other, 4, 



4. Oephalothorax glabrous or very nearly so, smooth and shining, 



dark in color and without definite light markings. 'Allocusa, 



Cephalothora.x not glabrous, when but spai'sely pubescent having 



a distinct light colonel mfnlian stripe 5. 



5. Distal |)air of ventral spines of anterior tibiie never apical in posi- 



tion; ce|)haloth()ra\ with a median pale band enclosing in its 

 anterior portion a ilark \'-shaped nuirk. ( l-]pigynal plate unfur- 

 rowed, I.e., without a guide; true Scopus absent or but faintly 

 indicated in male palpus), 1'irata. 



Distal pair of ventral spines of anterior tibiie apical in position; 

 median pale band of cephalothf)rax when present n<tt enclosing 

 anteriorly a dark \-sJiape<| mark. (Kpigynum with a distinct 



guide; scopus well (h'velo|)e<l) 0. 



0. Scopus me<lian in |»osition and more or less erect; guide f>f epigy- 

 num weakly or not at all developed anteriorly, the spennathecii 

 opening into c(»mparatively deep, open, basin-like f«tvea'. 

 which when continue<l forward as furrows are distinctly less 

 depres.sed anteriorly; labium wider than long with basal exca- 

 vations short, I'akddsa. 



Scopus exterior in pf)sition; guide of epigynmn well develojKtl 




170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



anteriorly; labium lontjer than wide with the hasal excavations 



long 7. 



7. Trans vei'se arms of guide divided from the distal end more or less 

 mesally; aurioila of lectus very long, reaching or nearly reach- 

 ing the anterior margin of alveolus; the embolus distinct!}' 

 elbowed at base of auricula; conductor conspicuously elevate 

 and usually more or less produceil into a horn-like process 

 extending l^eyond front margin of alveolus, , Schizocosa. 

 Trans\erse amis of guide not divided from aj)ex mesally ; auricula 

 of moderate size or small, not attaining front of alveolus; 

 embolus evenly curving, not elbowed at base of auricula; 

 conductor not conspicuously elevate or produced above into 

 a horn-like process extending beyond front margin of alveolus, 



Lycosa. 



PARDOSA C. Koch, 1848. 

 (Subgenus sub LYCOSA. Die Arachn.. Vol. 14. p. 100.) 



Entire body densely clothe<.l with pubescence. Anterior tibiae 

 armed beneath with three pairs of spines, of which the basal and 

 median pairs are veiy long, much longer than the diameter of the 

 joint, the third pair apical in position and reduced in size. Anterior 

 row of eyes always shorter than the secontl- and procurved ; eyes small 

 and subequal or with the median a little larger; median eyes nearly 

 always a little farther from each other than from the lateral; clypeus 

 high, twice as wide as the diameter of an anterior lateral eye; e\'es 

 of the second row large and divergent, situated at the outer angles of 

 the face above, their diameter or more apart; quadrangle of posterior 

 eyes trapeziform. wkler behind than in front. Labium at least as 

 wide a.s kjirg. usually wkler; basal excavation short, only vpry rarely 

 more than one-fourth of the total length of labium. Spinnerets short, 

 the posterior pair a little longer than the anterior, the a|>ical segment 

 being short and rounded. Epigynum with a distinct guide which is 

 but weakly or not at all developed anteriorly ; the openings of the 

 spermatheca protected; the spermathecum on each skle opening into 

 a relatively large and deep fovea or pit, the furrows becoming nar- 

 rower and shallower anteriorh'. Posterior lobe of male jxilpus bearing 

 a scopus in a me«lian position; scopus more or less erect, free except 

 at base where it has a spur or |)rocess on the exterior side; scopal fold 

 low; when a true lectal fold is indicated never showing an auricle or 

 fonvanlly directe<l lobe; lower furrow of conductor relati\ely extensive, 

 bearing at its inferior margin a variously formed and often IoIkmI or 

 dentate tenaculum. 



Syn. — IKOl. LtfroMi I,atr4-ille (atl. jmrt.), Ntiov. Diet. Ilisi. N.it . IM. \k 1:W. 

 1832. Lycosa Henta (ad. part ), Sill. J. Sci. Art.s, Jl , p. KMi 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 171 



1S42. Lijcosa Hentz (ad. part.), J. Best. Soc. X. H., 4, p. 228. 



1848. Lijcosa subp. Leimonia (\ Kocli. Die Araoli., 14, p. 99. 



. Lycosa subp. Pardosa (nom. preocc), ibid., p. 1(X). 



1S75. I.ijcosn Hentz. (ad. part.), Sp. V. S., pp. 11 and 24. 



1876. Pardosa Simon, .\raclin. Fr., Vol. 3. 



1876. Li/ro.ta Kevscrlinp (ad. part.). Verb. z. I). Gos. Wien., p. 610. 



1877. L;/co.'<a Thbrell, Hull. U, S. G. S. Terr., 3, p. n04 et seq. 

 18,85. Pardosa Emerton, Tr. Conn. Ac. Sci., G, p. 194. 

 1898. Pardosa .Simon, Hist. Nat. .\raign., 2. 



1902. Pardosa Montgomery (ad. part, max.), Proc. .\c. Sci., Pbila., p. 536. 



1903. Pardosa Com&tock, Classif. of X. A. Spiders. 



1904. Pardosa Chamberlin, Can. Ent., x.xxvi, p. 170. 



Pars cephalka moderately narrow, the sides steep, gently declined 

 anteriorly; face elevated, its sides straight and very steep, subvertical. 

 Quadrangle oi posterior eyes one-fourth or more the length of the 

 cepiialothorax. Seen from above the posterior eyes are at most but 

 very little more than their diameter removed from the margins of 

 pars cephalica (PI. Mil. fig. 2). Chelicerw in the great majority of 

 ca.ses with but two teetii on the upper margin of the fiurow, the lower 

 margin with three, of which the third is usually much reduced (PI. 

 \'1II, fig. 1). Legs long and os|)ecially the metatarsi and tarsi slender. 

 Anterior tarsi .^copulate, laterally the me<lian ventral face occupitxl 

 by a setose band (IM. \1II, fig. 7), posterior tai-si simply setose; 

 metatarsus of fourth leg relatively long, most conunonly longer than 

 the tibia + patella (e.'^pecially so in 6), more rarely of same length 

 or a little shorter; tibia 4- patella of fourth legs always longer than 

 the ccphahtthorax. The color markings frequently due in large part 

 to the arrangement of the pubescence in spots and streaks without 

 corresponding marks in the tegument, such markings, of course, being 

 evident only in the living or dry specimens. The cepiialothorax in 

 this genus has always a more or less evident light median stripe of a 

 characteristic dagger form. In nearly all species, although the mark- 

 ings maybe much oIjscuhmI in some, there is on the doi-sum of the 

 abdomen a pale basal nuirk which rims to a point near the middle, 

 each side of the apex and also usually each side of the middle of which 

 is an angular pale spot, having a dark dot at its center; |)osteriorly a 

 .series of ^wvh occllate spots iiioi*- or less united at the mi(l<lle line into 

 chevrons. 



Spiders of >mall or less conuuouly of umliuui size, all cliaractcrize*! 

 by e.xces.sivo agility. The males are conmionly smaller than the 

 females; but »lo not differ much in coloration. As in Lycosa and other 

 genrra, however, the ant<'rior legs of the male are often distinguisheti 

 by some peculiar devehjpment of color structure. 



l'ardi)sa,s biiilil o<> .rct;-e^t, wanderinj^ about during the cocoonin^ 




172 PROCEEDINGS OF THK ACADEMY OF [May, 



season as well as at other times. The cc^oon is more or less lenticular 

 in form, and shows a distinct seam about the equator, along which the 

 break is made when the spiderlings issue to mount the pai'ent. The 

 cocoon is typically greenish-yellow or greenish-black, but only veiy 

 rarel}' white. The individuals of this genus rarely live more than one 

 year. 



Key to .Species of Pakdosa. 

 Females. 



1. Kpigynal plate or area widest at anterior end, distinctly narrowing 



posteriorly; guide wider anteriorly than toward apex (PI. XIV, 



fig. 3), xerampclina (Keys.). 



Not as above, 2. 



2. Epigynum presenting each side of the guide posteriorly a sharply 



dehmited, relatively small fovea as long as wide, the anterior 



region of epigynum scarcely depressed, '.]. 



Xot as above, 4. 



3. Posterior fovea? angular in outline; posterior ends of lateral ridges 



separated by a distance much greater than their width; guide 

 behind with transverse arms (PI. XIII, fig. 5), . stermdis Th. 

 Posterior foveas smoothly rounded in outline; posterior ends of 

 lateral ridges not farther apart than thcirdiameter; guide Avithout 

 transvei"se arms (PI. XIII. fig. 8), atra liks. 



4. J^atoral furrows with the shallow anterior fossae short and narrow, 



behind these deepening and abruptly widely expanding, becoming 

 widest near middle of epigynum; septum of guide elevate, its 

 more depresse<l tranverse arms extending into excavations in 



theinnerfaceof the lateral ridges, 5. 



Xot as above, 7. 



5. Transverse arms of guide bending backwards, septum of guide 



widest at posterior end, becoming gradually narrower toward 

 the anterior end, its sides substraight or but little curving 



(PI. XIV. fig. 6), granhnuJica Th. 



Not so, 6. 



6. Transverse arms of guide bending more or less foi-ward ; septum 



al^ruptly widest immediately behind region of anterior foss:e, from 

 there narrowing to end (PI. X\', fig. 3), modica var. hrunnca Vaw. 

 Transverse arms i)ending more strongly forward; septum widest 

 behind the middle of it,s length, typically expanded into a broad 

 plate-like form over the origins of tranverse arms which it usually 

 in large part covers (PI. X\'. fig. 1), modim PI. (type form). 



7. Face of .^optum of guide al)ruptly expanded behind into a large 



nearly circular |)late, the diameter of which is clearly greater 

 than the letigtli of the part of epigynum in front of it (PI. Xl\', 



fig. 1)^ cniciiDni Chanib. 



Not 80 H. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17i 



8. Epigj'iial area wider than long, 9. 



N(jt so, 10. 



9. Distinct lateral ridges enclosing posterior portion of guide botli at 



sides and also behinfl except for short median space between 



ends of ridges (PI. XV, fig. 8), distincta HI. 



No enclosing ridges at side.-* or behind, guide extending com- 

 pletely over margins of plate of epigynum posteriorly (PI. XIV, 

 fig. 5), calijornica (Keys.). 



10. Dver anterior and median portion of epigynum a narrow and very 



sliallow fossa passing behind into a large transvei"sely elliptical 

 depression which is completely occupied by the expamlctl 

 guide, the lateral ends of which lie in excavations in the sitle 



ridges (PI. X\', fig. 5), mackenziana (Keys.). 



Xot so, 11. 



11. Transverse arms of guide narrowest mesally. widening toward 



their outer ends (PI, XIV, fig. 7), . . . . lapidicina Em. 

 Xot so "" 12. 



12. Lateral plates extending along guide for nuicli of total lengtii of 



epigynum, gradually narrowing in width anteriorly. ... 13. 

 Xot so, the lateral j)lates mostly confineMl to transvei*se arms, 

 abruptly narrowing and extemling forward but a short dis- 

 tance on septal piece 15. 



13. Ciuide becoming veiy narrow toward its anterior end; outer 



margin of epigyninn presenting a sjuall abrupt shoulder on each 

 side just below middle (PI. XIII. fig. 9), . . pauxilla Mt^. 

 Guide of UKKlcrate width at its anterior end, being nuich wider 

 than the fossa at eacii side; outer margin of epigynum present- 

 ing no shoulder below middle (PI. Xlli. fig. 7), banks) C\\i\m\). 



15. Posterior fovea' clearly wider than long; s(>ptum of guide very 



narrow over middle region, at front end strongly expanding in 

 fan-like form; front margin of anterior depression straight and 



UKxlerately wide (PI. XI\'. fig. 9), 7rw('sta liks. 



Not so, K;. 



16. Sides of epigynmn protruding into an angle in front of midtJIe; 



no distinctly defincMJ lateral ridjres in middle region of siiles. 

 the sides grailually convexly rounding from middle to outer 



margin (Pi. XIII," fig. 1). ' xaudl His {}].). 



Sides of epigynum not angulate in front of middle; more or h^s 

 distinct lalcial lidges along Uiiddlc region (PI. .XIII. fig. 3), 



milvina (H.). 



The key to females above does not include /*. longispiiuita (Tullg.) 

 and Inbraflorensis (Th.), "f wjiich specimens have not bevu cxaminc<l 

 by the author. 



Mnlrs. 



1 Scoptis shf)rt and stout, not at all or but slightly longer than 



broad 2. 



Scopu.>< several times longer than broad, . 7 



12 




174 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



2. Anterior depressed lobe of bulb separated into two furrows by an 



elevated narrow fokl extending from above obliquely downward 

 and outward, externally from its lower end being two imcate 

 tenacula and at the corner opposite its upper end a lamellate, 

 inflexed chitinous angle (PI. XIV, fig. 8), . . lapidicina Em. 

 Not so 3. 



3. Anterior division of bulb presenting a large, trilobed thickening 



transversely across its upper border from base of embolus out- 

 ward, the ends of lobes recurved over the furrow posteriorly 



from them (PI. XIV, fig. 4), californica (Keys.). 



Not so 4. 



4. Embolus extending across bulb almost to outer side of alveolus 



(PI. XV, fig. 4, var. brunnea; PI. XV, fig. 2, type form), 



modica (Bl.). 

 Apex of embolus scarcely extending beyond scopus, 



groeniandica Th. 

 7. Scopus extending obliquely forward and outward quite to or some 



distance beyond margin of alveolus, 8. 



Not so, 10. 



-8. Scopus curv'ing forward with convexity external and apex directed 



for^vard, emertoni Cha,nih. 



Not so, 9. 



'9. Embolus stronglv bent into an S shape," scopal spur turned forward 



at apex (Ph XIII. fig. 6), sternalis (Th.). 



Embolus but little curved, extending nearly straight transversely; 

 scopal spur turned backward at apex (PI. XIII, fig. 2), 



saxatilis (H.). 



10. Scopus above bent outward and then strongly backward, becom- 



ing nearlv parallel with l)asal part (PI. XV, fie. 9), distincto Bl. 

 Not so, .' ''..... 11. 



11. Scopus dentate at apex; the spur nearly straight, subcorneal (PI. 



X\', figs. 6 and 7) rnackenziana (Keys.). 



Scopus not dentate at apex 12. 



12. .Spur short and stout, abruptly turned posteriorly at apex into an 



acute hof)k (PI. XIII, fig. 4), milvina (H.). 



Spur cylindrical, longer panxilla Mtg. 



Males of the following species are either imknown or are too 

 iniporfectly known to the author to be included in the foregoing key: 

 4ilr(i, bfinksi, labradorensis, lonqispiiuita, mocsta, xerampelina. 



Fardosa saxatilis (Henti), 1844. 



(J. liost. Sor. N. Hwt.. p. .392, PI. XVIII, fiss. 9, Id.) 

 Female. — Sides of cephalothorax deep brown to l)lack crossed with 

 lighter radiating lines; a nn^lian reddisjj yellow band which anteriorly 

 Hends a short narrow process between eyes (jf the third row, behind 

 which it abruptly widens, ronstrictcHl midway between the eyes and 

 the dorsal gn»ove, Ix'hintl which it is strongly narrowetl, sides of band 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 175 



in region of median groove dentate; on each side a j'ellow supra- 

 marginal stripe usualh' divided by two or three dark cross-lines and 

 limited below by a narrow black marginal stripe which is more or less 

 broken into spots; clypeus yellow, with a triangular black spot below 

 each anterior lateral eye, the apex of the spot being at the eye and the 

 ba.se on the front margin of the clj'peus; the light part of ccphalo- 

 thorax in life clothed with dense white hair, that of the supramarginal 

 stripes extending also over the black marginal lines, the light side 

 stripes consequently appearing wider in live than in alcoholic speci- 

 mens. Chelicerce yellow, with some dusky markings. Labium and 

 endites and coxoe of legs beneath yellow. Sternum black, usually with 

 a narrow median pale line in front; often with a row of black dots 

 along each lateral margin, and a central black stripe narrowed behind 

 and anteriorly geminated by a pale line, elsewhere being yellow. 

 Legs yellow with black annuli on all joints excepting the tai"si, the tlark 

 annidi of the femora wide and predominating over the yellow, those 

 of the tibia} ^of same width as the yellow bands, while those of the 

 nietatarsi are distinctly narrower. Abdomen blackish to dark gray 

 above, sometimes of a greenish tinge; a yellow to brown lanceolate 

 stripe at base having at each side of its apex a similarly colored angular 

 spot witii minute black dot at its center; on posterior portion of doi"sum 

 a series of light cro.ss-marks, each formed by the lateral confluence of 

 from two to four spots similar to those at sides of apex of basal stripe ; 

 dorsum elsewhere with many minute light dots; sides like lateral 

 portions of dorsum l)ut with the light dots larger; venter yellow to 

 light reddish brown, with a row of irregular dark and ])artly confluent 

 marks along each sitle and a siiort metlian row of similar marks behind 

 the epigynum; in life the alxlomen is densely clothed with gray and 

 brown hair. Spinnerets light brown. Epigynum light brown, the 

 posterior fovea' appearing a.'^ darker i)lackisii spots. 



Cephalothorax relatively higher in front than usual, highest at third 

 eye row, from there slanting downward to the posterior declivity, 

 concave at the dorsal groove, plane of quadrangle of jiosterior eyes 

 not much declined. Face as high as the length of the chclicene or 

 slightly higher, protruding above over its lower portion; sides slightly 

 convex or straight, subvertical. 



Anterior row of eyes of the usual length and curvature; anterior 

 median eyes three-fourths their diameter apart, half a,** far from the 

 lat«'ral vyca, their diameter from eyes of second row; anterior lateral 

 eyes three-fourths or more as large ati the median, more than twice 

 their diameter from the front margin of clypeus and than their diaoi- 




170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



eter from eyes of second row; eyes of second row their diameter or a 

 little more apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes more than one-fourth 

 the length of the cephalothorax. 



Labium wider than long (4.25 : 4) ; basal excavation one-fourth the 

 total length; strongly attenuatetl anteriorly, the sides for most of 

 length convexly rounded, becoming straight toward anterior angles; 

 front margin slightly convexly rounded. 



Legs witli the metatai-sus of the fourth pair clearly longer than the 

 tibia -f- patella; tibia -1- patella of the first pair of the same length as 

 the cephalothorax; fii-st two jjaii-s of spines of the anterior tibiae very 

 long and overlapping as usual; lateral scopulse of anterior tarei very 

 thin. 



Epigynum without distinctly defined lateral ridges in the median 

 region; sides strongly angulate in front of middle; guide usually pointed 

 just in front of posterior foveas, between the anterior portions of 

 whicli it is not concavely depressed as it is in flavlpcf^, descending fn^u 

 the higher transverse ridge in a more nearly straight line than in the 

 latter species. (PI. XIII, fig. 1.) 



Total length, 5 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 2.4 mm.; width, 

 1.8 nnn. 



Length of leg I, 7.3 mm. ; tib. + pat., 2.4 mm. ; met., 1.5 mm. 



Length of leg II. 7 nun. 



Length of leg 111, 7 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 10.5 nun. ; tib. + pat., S mm. ; met., 3.5 mm. 



Male. — Darker than female and the light and dark markings more 

 strongly contrasting; entire eye region black; supramarginal light 

 stripes of cephalothorax often obscure; femora of fii-st legs entirely 

 black, those of second pair pale over most of ventral surface, the black 

 of dorsal surface more or less interrupted with yellow; posterior femora 

 with dark rings which are more broken or interrupted than in female; 

 distal joints of all legs yellow, without any dark annuli. Palpi entirely 

 black except the patelhe and tlio tips of the tai-si wliich are yellow or, 

 in life, bright white. 



Tibia of palpus a little longer than the i)at('lla, becoming thick(M' 

 distally, tarsus a.s long a.s the two preceding joints together. Srojuis 

 resembling that of milvina, hut reaching to or beyond the exterior side 

 of the alveolus; lower border of the inferior furrow of anterior lobe 

 develope<l at the exterior side into a doi^ally concave, boat-shaped 

 stnicture which at the exterior end is keehvj and beai*s beU)W a short 

 rournhHl flap, the upper margin of the fiu-row with a strongly chitini/ed 

 triangular process or tenaculum direct«'<l caudally t(tward the j)roc('ss 

 of the inferior margin as in mUvimi. (1*1. .\ 1 11 , fig. 2. ) 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 177 



Total length, 4.6 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 2.3 mm.; width, 

 1.9 mm. 



Length of leg I. 7.1 mm.;tib. + pat., 2.5 mm.; met., l.Smm. 



Length of leg XL 6.6 mm. 



Length of leg III, 6.5 mm. 



Length of leg IV. 10.3 mm. : tib. + pat., 3.1 mm.; met., 3.2 mm. 



Syn. — 1S76. Li/cosa minitna, Keyserliiig,\'erli. z. b. Ges. Wicn, JG, p. 614. 

 1S85. Pardosa alhojxitella Emerton, Trans. Conn. Oc. Sci., 6, p. 497, PI. 94, 



fig?. 2 to 2b. 

 1S9(). Lj/cosa minima, Mar.x, Proe. U. S. X. M., 12, p. .562. 



. Pardoan albopatella, Marx, ibid., p. 565. 



l.SnO. Pardosa albopatella. Stonf. Pn.c. Acad. .\at. Sci. Pliila., 42. p. 4.31 . 



1891. Pardo.^a minima. Banks, Ent. New.s, 2. 



1892. Pardo.xa nlbopalella, Marx. Proc. Ent. Sor. W.'. 2, p. 161. 

 1892. Pardosa alboixitella. Bank.s. Proc. U. S. X. M.. 44, p. 70. 



. Pardosa nnnulala, Banks, ibid., p. 6.8, PI. 1, fig. 41. 



1895. Pardosa minima. Banks, J. X. \ . Enf . .'^oc.. 3^ p. 91. 



19(X1. Pardo.^a minima. Banks, Proc. .\cad. Xat. Sci. Phila., p. 539. 



1902. Pardosa albojHilella, Emerton, Common Sp. of U. S., p. 83, fig;*. 



205-207. 

 1{M)2. Pardosa minima, Montgomerv, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., p. 571, 



PI. :30. figs. 35, .36. 



Type localify. — Alabama. 



Known localities. — Illinois!, Ma-^t^achusetts, Connecticut, Rhode 

 Lsland!, New Hampshire!, District of Columbia!, Pennsylvania, 

 New Jei-sey!, Alabama, Kan.sas!, Indiana. 



While the males are easily distinguishable, the females of this 

 species and of milinna are much alike both in general apjiearance and 

 in the structure of the epigyna. Aside from the differences in the 

 epigyna, which are difficult to state, the cephalothorax of saxotillis is 

 relatively higher in front and slopes more decitledly caudally and the 

 face protrudes above more strongly. There are constant differences 

 in the proportions of the legs. The markings of saxatilis are finer. 



Pardoaa milvina ( lleiitz), lH4t. 



(Suh Lycosn J. Best. S. X. H., \u\. IV. p. 392, PI. X\III. fig. 8.) 



Sides of cephalothora.x deep bidw u to black; eye region deep black, 

 a yellow to brown metlian band beginning jis a rather narrow process 

 at or behind third eye row, expanding a little posteriorly on each side 

 and then again constricte<l in front of middle, expanding about dorsal 

 groove and then narrowing again down posterior tleclivity; on each 

 side a subniarginal light l)an{l which in some ia obscure anteriorly, 

 but is usually distinct to dypeus in front; clypeus yellow or brown 

 with a triangular black spot below each anterior lateral eye; side** of 

 c<»phalothorax with brown pul>eacence, the light stripes with yellow, 




178 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^lay, 



the clypeiis with yellow and some white. Chelicerce yellow to brown 

 each with a .short Ijlack median mark at base, clothed with whitish 

 pubescence and sparse long brown bristles. EmIUes, labium and 

 coxa: of legs yellow to browh. 



Sternum iisualh' black, often with a lighter median line in front, 

 clothed with yellow or yellowish-white pubescence ; sometimes lighter, 

 dark brown or even yellow with or without dark spots. Legs yellow 

 with dark rings on all joints except the tarsi, clothed with whitish 

 and some short darker pubescence. Abdomen above at base with a 

 yellow to reddish-brown stripe ending in front of middle; opposite 

 apex of basal mark an angular pale spot with dark dot in center, 

 and behind a series of transverse rows of similar spots more or 

 less confluent transversely as usual; often a yellow line close to and 

 parallel with the margin of the basal mark on each side; dorsum 

 laterally black \vith numerous small yellow dots; dorsum clothed 

 with brown and white pubescence, the white in part in angular spots 

 at sides and in transverse lines between the pale marks of tegument; 

 sides yellow with many spots and mottlings of brown or above of black, 

 in life covered with pubescence in intermixed spots and streaks of 

 white and brown; venter pale, rarely dark, densely clothed with light 

 gray pubescence. 



Spinnerets yellow or light brown. 



Epigynum brown, darker, reddish at margins. 



Face relatively high, nearly of same height as length of chelicerae; 

 sides nearly straight, subvertical. Cephalothorax high, the posterior 

 declivity very steep, in profile nearly level from third eye row to 

 posterior declivity, slightly depressed at median furrow, sides steep. 



Anterior row of eyes much shorter than the .second, only slightly 

 procurve<l; anterior median eyes nearly three-fourths their diameter 

 apart, evidently closer to the lateral eyes; anterior lateral eyes visibly 

 smaller than the median, of usual distance from eyes of second row 

 and from the fnnit margin of clypous; eyes of second row not quite 

 once and a half their diameter apart. Quadrangle of post<»rior eyes 

 morn than one-fourth the length of the cephalothorax. 



Labium a little wider than long (0.25 : 6) ; ba^al excavation more than 

 one-fourth the total length of labium; sides substraight, strongly 

 converging anteriorly ; front margin slightly convex. 



Lc(js slender; metatai-sus of fourth pair of same length as tibijc and 

 patella together; spines of anterior tibia; as usual; anterior tarsi with 

 but ver>' sparse scopulan at sides, posterior tarsi setose and spinulose aa 

 usual. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 179 



Epigynum with more or less evident lateral ridges, margins usually 

 not angulate in front of middle; septal piece of guide not pointed at 

 front of fovesp, more depressed between foveae than in saxatilis. See 

 PI. XIII, fig. 3. 



Total length, 6 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 2.4 mm.; widtli, 

 2 mm. 



Length of leg I. 9 mm.; tib. + pat., 2.3 mm.; met.. 1.7 mm. 



I>ength of leg II, 6.9 mm. 



Length of leg III. 6.8 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 10.3; tib. -!- pat., 3 mm. ; met.. 3 mm. 



Male. — Darker in color than female, the cephalothorax often nearly 

 entirely black, especially anteriorly, with the side stripes obscured 

 and the median light mark not extending forward beyond front end of 

 dorsal furrow. Abdomen often entirely black above, with light mark- 

 ings absent or but faintly indicated. Tai'sus of palpus always black, 

 the other joints often so, and always darkened by black pubescence. 



Tibiae of the palpus longer than the patella and distinctly broader, 

 broadest anteriorly. Scopus long, bent outward above but not 

 reaching margin of alveolus; basal spur short, bent down at apex, not 

 covere<l ; margin of inferior furrow of anterior lobe with a single short 

 and stout tenaculum. (PI. XIII, fig. 4.) 



Total length, 5.2 mm. Length of cephalothorax. 2.S mm.: width. 

 2.1 mm. 



Length of leg I. 9.9 nun. ; tib. + pat., 3.2 mm. ; met.. 2.4 mm. 



Length of leg II, 9.4 mm. 



Length of leg III, 8.9 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 12.9 mm. ; tib. + pat., 3.8 nmi. ; met., 4.2 mm. 



Syn. — 1S71. Lifcosa canadensis, lilaokwall. .Aim. Nat. Hist.. Vol. VIll. |)p. 



430,431. 

 1870. Lifcosn JInHpes K«*vsirlinp, ^'<•rll. z. b. Cu's. Wiiii. 20, ji. Olti, PI. 



7. fig. 4. 

 IHH'). Pardosa nigropalpis Enicrton, Trans. Conn. Acini., (>. p. V.U , J'l. 4S, 



fig. 3 to .3/;. 



1890. Pardosa nigropalpis, Marx, Proc. V. S. N. M., 12. 



. Pardosa nigra /ml pis, Stout-, Proc. .Xcad. Nat. S<'i. Pliila., 42, p. 430. 



1S92. Pardosa nigropalpis, Pnnks, Trans. .Xcad. Nat. ."^i-i. Pliila., 44, p. 70. 



. Pardosa pallida, Hank.s (ad. i)art. in ("oil. in liiiv. Cornrll), ibid., p.(>8. 



. Pardosa niqrojxdjiis, Marx, Proc. Knt. Soc. \V., p. 101. 



1893. Pardosa flm-iju-^, Mank«. .1. N. Y. Knt. Soc, 1 , p. 12.'>. 



1891. Pardosa jlavij>rs, ]{ai)k.<s, op. cit., 3, p. 91. 



19(K). Pardosa milrina. Hanky (a(l. part, max), Proo. .\catl. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 



p. M9. 

 1902. Pardoka nigroftalpis, MontgonMTy, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 



r.09, PI..30, fig)4..32-34. 



. Pardosa sriin Montgonii-ry, ihid., p. .')73, PI. 30. figw. 37. 38. 



. Pardosa nigropalpis Knii-rton (onimon Sp. ai I'. S., p, 83, figH 



205-207. 




ISO PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [MaV, 



Tifpe localitij — Alabama. 



Knoirn localities. — Man-land!, Illinois!, Massachusetts, Connecti- 

 cut. Riiocle Island!. Xew York!. District of Columbia!, Pennsylvania, 

 Mrginia. Xorth Carolina!, Georgia!, Alabama!. Louisiana!, Mississippi!, 

 Kansas!, Indiana!. 



One of the commonest and most widely distributed of North Ameri- 

 can Pardosas. Specimens from the South are lighter than those from 

 the Xorth. the sternum being frequentl}- yellow or white without 

 marks, and at other times being covered in varjdng degrees with black 

 dots, the dots in some covering entire sternum, except for the anterior 

 median light stripe, and in others found only in a single row along each 

 margin. In the same localit}' all gradations may be found between 

 dark, typically colored individuals and the pale forms. 

 Pardosa paaxilla Mtg. 



Female. — .^ides of cephalothorax blackish brown or deep chocolate 

 color; a rather wide \'ellow or pale brown band along each lateral 

 margin extending fonvard to the dj-peus which is of the same light 

 color; eye region black; back of eyes a median dagger-shaped light 

 brown stripe of usual character. Chelicero' yellow. Labium, endites 

 and cox(B of legs beneath vellow or yellowish brown. Sternum yellow- 

 ish brown, blackish toward margins ami with scattered black spots 

 over the middle portion. Legs also yellow or 3'ellowish brown with 

 numerous dark annuli which are deep and distinct on the femora and 

 tibiir. but are Ic-^s strong or sometimes indistinct on the metatarsi; 

 of these annuli there are four on each femur and tibia and three on 

 each metatarsis; each patella has a median annulus with indications 

 in some of darkened ends. Ahrlomen with dorsum black to deep 

 brown minutely dotted with yellow; at base a yellow lanceolate stripe 

 with an angular spot each side of apex as usual, followed behind by 

 a series of wide chevron-marks of the ortlinarj' character; because of 

 the extent of the yellow markings in some the doi-sum appears to be 

 occupied <t\cr its middle region from ba.se to spinnerets by a yellowish 

 band which narrows caudall}' and encloses rather indistinct dark 

 markings; sides of abdomen flark like the lateral portions of dorsum, 

 but the yellow dots larger, becoming more and more extendctl and 

 confluent ventrally, finally pa.ssing into the inunaculate yellow or 

 yellowish white venter. Spinnerets pale brown. Kpigynum reddish 

 brown. 



Anterior row of njeH of the usual relative length and curvature; 

 anterior me<lian eyes fully their diameter apart, much closer to the 

 smaller lateral eyes, their diameter or a little more from the eyes of 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



second row; anterior lateral ej'es twice their diameter or a little more 

 from the front margin of elypeus, their diameter from eyes of second 

 row; eyes of second row one and one-fourth times th.eir diameter 

 apart ; quadrangle of posterior e3'es longer behind than in front in 

 ratio of 9:7. considerably more than one-fourth as long as the 

 cephalothorax (1 :3.5). 



Spines of tibiie of legs and clothing of tarsi as usual. 



Epigynum in shape roughly like a very wide-necked decanter, though 

 more angular in outline; posterior foveap not sharply limitefl, the 

 lateral furrows gradually narrowing cephalad to a mere line at the 

 anterior end. the sides bulging in correspondingly on each side; guide 

 somewhat anchor-shaped with the transverse pieces relatively short 

 and stout, the median piece with lateral plates along entire length, these 

 continuously narrowing cephalad until the septum at its anterior end 

 is very narrow. (PI. XIII. fig. 9 .) 



Total length, 5 mm. Lengtii of cephalothorax, 2.5 mm.; width, 

 1.8 mm. 



Length of leg I. 7.2 mm.; tib. + pat., 2.6 mm. ; met., 1.5 mm. 



Length of leg II, 7 mm. 



Length of leg III, 6.9 mm. 



Length of leg IV. 10.6 mm. ; tib. + pat.. 3.2 mm. ; met., 3.3 mm. 



Male. — Considerably smaller than female. Legs yellow, entirely 

 without rings or markings excepting the femora of the first two pairs 

 which are black on the basal half, the black more or less interrupted 

 by yellow laterally and below. Palpi entirely black, clothed with 

 dense black hair. Median stripe of cephalothorax obscure. Abdomen 

 entirely black without light markings in the tegument. I)ut in life with a 

 row f»f white spots foniKnl of bunches of hair on each side behind, with 

 narrow transvei"se lines of white hair extending between the spoti^; 

 venter yellow with a dark median mark more or less dilatinl in front 

 of the spiiuieret.s. clothed with white hair. Ch-cliccra' black except 

 along disto-mesal side, clothed with deep brown pubescence except 

 distally where it is gray and longer. 



Bulb of jMilpal organ very convex, protruding conspicuously from 

 alve<»lus; scopus similar in form to that of rnilrina, but the ba.sal spur 

 cylindrical and relatively longer than in that species; there arc consider- 

 able differences in the conductors of these two species. 



Total Ir-ngth, 4.1 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 2.1 mm.; width, 

 1.3 nun. 



Length of leg I, 5.2 nun. 



Length of leg II, 5 nun. 




182 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADE>n: OF [May> 



Length of leg III, 5 nini. 



Length of leg IV, 7.7 mm. ; tib. + pat., 2.3 mm. ; met., 2.6 mm. 



Locality. — Austin, Texas !. 



Pardosa banks! Chamberlin, 1904. 



(Canadian Entomologist, Vol. XXXVI, p. 175.) 



Female. — Eye region and sides of cephalothorax black or brownish 

 black; on each side a distinct supramarginal yellow band which 

 reaches to the clypeus in front; a less clearly marked median dagger- 

 shaped band of brown along dorsum from posterior margin to the 

 third eye row, this band but little wider than the lateral bands except 

 at its expanded anterior end, where, however, its lateral portions are 

 obscure; clypeus yellow, marked below each anterior lateral eye with 

 a triangular black spot, the apex of which is at the eye, and the base 

 upon the front margin of clypeus. Chelicerce smoky yellow, with a 

 dark line running down near the inner side and bending obliquely 

 outward across the front face distally, there becoming indistinct; a 

 black line along each margin of the lateral condyle. Sternum light 

 brown with a black median lanceolate stripe which is divided anteriorly 

 by a short yellow line. Legs clear yellow or pale brown of a greenish 

 hue, or with faint traces of rings on the posterior ones, otherwise 

 entirely without markings. Abdomen above black with a reddish 

 yellow lanceolate stripe at base, with a similarly colored quadrate spot 

 with black dot at center each side of apex, and a series of transveree 

 yellow marks behind formed of similar spots unitetl in pairs; an indis- 

 tinct light mark joining the basal lanceolate stripe on each side near 

 its base and another one joining it near the middle on each side, these 

 marks formed of rows of small dots; sides of abdomen black like the 

 dorsum except for a yellow spot or stripe in front below each antero- 

 lateral angle; venter yellow with a brown spot enclosing spinnerets 

 and a me<lian dark line extending from this spot fonvard to the epigy- 

 num. Anterior spinnerets brown, the posterior ones more yellow. 

 Epigynum light reddish brown. 



Face as high as the length of the clielicera? or very nearly so; sides 

 straight and subvertical. Cephalothorax highest a little behind third 

 eye row, from where in profile the dorsal line is straight to the posterior 

 declivity. 



Anterior row of eyes shorter than the secf)nd, of the usual relative 

 length, gently procurved ; anterior me<lian eyes fully three-fourtlis their 

 diameter apart, closer to the lateral eyes, a little more than their 

 diameter from eyes of second row; anterior lateral eyes about three- 




1908.] NATUR.\L SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. "; 183 



fourths as large in diameter as the median, twdce their diameter from 

 front margin of clypeiis, once and a third their diameter from eyes of 

 second row; eyes of second row their diameter apart; quadrangle of 

 posterior eyes a little wider in front than long, fully one-fourth the 

 length of the cephalothorax. 



Lower margin of furrow of chelicerce with three teeth, <>f which the 

 third is but little shorter than the first two; upper margin with three 

 teeth of the relative proportions more common in the genus Lycosa. 



Tibia + patella of fourth legs of same length as the metatarsus; 

 tibia + patella of the fii-st pair of legs shorter than the cephalothorax; 

 spines of the anterior tibiae of usual arrangement and proportions ; all 

 tarsi setose and spinulose, the anterior ones but thinly scopulate 

 laterally. 



Transverse piece of guide of epiffynum of moderate length; septal 

 piece evident fon\'ard to the anterior end of the e]Mg>'num. with well- 

 developed lateral plates along its entire length, these being behind as 

 wide as the transverse piece of guide and gradually and continuously 

 narrowing anteriorly. (PI. XIII, fig. 7.) 



Total length, 5.5 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 2.7 mm.; width, 

 2.1 nun. 



Length of leg 1, 7 nnn.;tib. -f pat., 2.4 mm.; met.. 1.5 nmi. 



Length of leg II, 6.8 mm. 



Length of leg III, 6.7 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 9.6 mm. ; tib. + pat., 3 mm. ; met., 3 mm. 



Male.— "The male palpus from the side shows three black, rounile*! 

 projections, the lower one the smallest." (Banks.) 



Length, 5 mm. 



t?yn.— 1896. Pardosa littoralis Banks, J. N. V. Ent. Soc, 1, p. 192. (.\om. 

 preocc.) 



Type locality.— \AmiL, Islaml, X. V. (.Mill Neck). 



Habitat.— \Am^ Island (.Mill Xeck!, Sheepshead Bay!), Florida!. 



Found in salt marshes. The type specimens were found in the 

 marshes near .Mill Xeck in June. The description above is base<l on 

 two females from Sheepshea<l Bay, taken in August, 1903, (C. R. 

 Crosby). 



Pardoia mo«iU HnnkH, 1H92. 



f l'r<.< . .\( ad. -Nat. .Si. Phila., W, p. 7(t. IM. 3. fig. 44.) 

 Female.— Cephalothorax dark reddish brown with radiating lines of 

 black, a pale mwlian band which becomes darker and more oliscure 

 anteriorly; fiitire eye region black; in some scarcely paler above lateral 




184 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [-^lav, 



margins, in others (southern specimens) with a marginal pale stripe 

 more or less evident on each side. Clypeus reddish yellow, the yellow 

 area higher on each side. Chelicercc reddish yellow; a blackish line 

 bordering the condyle on each side, the two lines uniting at its lower 

 end and extending down the front of the chelicerae. Endites yellow. 

 Labium dark brown, paler distalh'. Coxce of legs beneath yellow. 

 Sternum black. Legs reddish yellow; the femora marked with dark 

 rings which are mostly incomplete below, above often more or less 

 diffuse<l.the annuli thus often more or less confluent dorso-laterally, 

 especially on the front femora; patella? and tibiae also marked with 

 incomplete dark rings, the first tibiae darker than others, almost 

 wholly black. Abdomen above black, densely minutely punctate with 

 reildish yellow; dorsum with a faint basal spear-shaped stripe of a 

 dusky reddish yellow color; sides of abdomen like the dorsum, but the 

 light dots larger and more elongate; venter light reddish brown; a 

 narrow, irregularly edged stripe or line of black on each side, the two 

 converging caudad, and a similar stripe along median line behind the 

 epigynum, this stripe running to a point posteriorly. Epigynum 

 brown of a light reddish tinge. 



Face with its sides straight and nearly vertical, the chelicerae in 

 length about one and one-fourth times longer than its height; face 

 protruding above the eyes of the second row being borne at the ends 

 of a bulging transverse ridge. Cephalothorax highest at the third 

 eye row. in profile the dorsal line slopes gradually to the posterior 

 declivity, but is gently concave at the dorsal groove. 



First row of q/e^ much shorter than the second, not fully extending 

 from center to center of eyes of seconrl row, procurved in usual degree; 

 anterior median eyes fully three-fourths their diameter apart, half as 

 far from the lateral eyes, a little more than their diameter from eyes 

 of second row ; anterior lateral eyes three-fourths or more as large as the 

 median eyes, twice their diameter from front margin of clypeus, one 

 and one-third times their diameter from eyes of second row; eyes 

 of second row their diameter apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes as 

 wide in front as long, half as wide again behind as in front or nearly so, 

 the c«>pliaI«)thorax only 3.5 times as long. 



Lower margin of the furrow of the chcUcerw with three teeth, of which 

 the first two are stout and sube(|ual but the third much reduced; the 

 upIMT margin of the furrow with two t<^eth of the usual proportions. 



LetjH with the metatarsus of the fourth pair longer than the tibia -f 

 patella; tibia -f- patella of the first pair of the same length as the 

 cephalothorax; spines of anterior tibia? of common form, the two first 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 185 



pairs veiy long and overlapping; tai"si with scopulae on sides of anterior 

 ones, the posterior simply setose and spinulose. Labium longer, 

 wider than long, strongly attenuated anteriorly, the front margin 

 subtruncate. 



Epigynum with transverse piepe of guide rather wide, the guide plates 

 along its front side with the free margin wavy; the posterior foveae 

 wide and conspicuous ; septal piece of guide low and narrow for most of 

 length, extending to the anterior depression where it expands fan 

 shape. (PI. XIV. fig. 9.) 



Total length, 5.7 mm. Length of the cephalothorax, 3 mm.; width, 

 2.2 mm. 



Length of leg I, 8.8 nun. ; tib. + pat., 3 mm. ; met., 2.2 mm. 



Length of leg II, 8 mm. 



I^ength of leg III, 8 mm. 



Length of leg l\'. 13 1 mm.; tib. + pat.. 4 nun. ; met., 4.2 mm. 



Male. — Unknown. 



Type locality. — New York (Ithaca). 



Known localities. — New York (Ithaca!, Lake Keuka!), District of 

 C(jhimbia!. 



Specimens I have seen from Washington, D. C, are paler through- 

 out than indicated in the description above, which is ba.se<l on indi- 

 viduals fnjm itiiaca and Penn Yan, N. Y., including one of the types. 

 The species is in some respects much like saj:atilis. 



Pardoia sternalis (Thorell). 1877. 



(Sub Lycoaa, Bull. U. S. Geol. Surv. Tirr., :i. p. .">()4.) 

 Fcinalf. — Sides of the cephnlDthonix and the doi'sal eye area black; 

 a me<lian l)and of brown color of nnldish caste beginning back of eyes 

 and passing posteriorly over doi-sal groove and narrowing down the 

 posterior declivity to a line; the me<lian band at it,s anten<»r end is 

 nearly always bifurcate, the two slender divergent processes embracing 

 between them a similarly colored spot, with which they are connected 

 each by a narrow lino; a light brown l)an<l along each lateral ixirder, 

 limited below posteriorly by a black marginal line and geminatcnl for 

 its entire length by a second black line; the lateral bands are continu- 

 ous and attain the clypcMis in front which is of the same color; me<Iian 

 light stripe with S(jme white pubescence, but with brown hair pre<lomi- 

 tiating for most of its length; sides with brown pubescence; marginal 

 light striiK-s clothe<l above and below the g<'minating dark line with 

 whit<' pubescence, the <hirk lines with spai*ser brown hair. C/ulictnr 

 redclish yellow or light brown, normally with a blackish line along the 




1S6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [MaV, 



antero-mesal line of each chelicera, this hue distally turning obhquely. 

 outward and reaching the out^r side; clothetl mostly with white hair 

 except distally where brown hair and bristles are intermixed. Labium 

 and endites light brown, paler at tips. Coxce of legs beneath light 

 brown. Sternum with ground color brown, mostly with a row of 

 black spots along each lateral margin, and occupied over the middle 

 region by a large black area divided by a median light line; sometimes 

 the black area is much reduced and the yellow or brown color then 

 predominates, but usually the black covers all but a rather narrow 

 stripe toward each side and the mesal light line; subdensely clothed 

 with long white or light gray hairs. Legs light brown, all joints except 

 tarsi marked with black annuli which]are close together on the proximal 

 joints, which in consequence often appear very dark; the metatarsus 

 has three well-separated dark annuli and appears paler like the tarsi; 

 black rings of femora more or less broken ventrally. Abdomen above 

 blackish; a very distinct yellow or pale brown lanceolate median 

 stripe at base, with an obliquely placed yellow angular spot of usual 

 type each side of apex, and behind a series of four or five similar and 

 obliquely placed pairs of spots, the pairs more or less confluent mesally, 

 into anteriorh' pointed chevron-shaped cross-bands ; a yellow mark t^ach 

 side of ba.se of the median lanceolate stripe; doreum for the most part 

 covered with brown pubescence, but each side of lanceolate mark a row 

 of spots formed by bunches of white hair, and behind but more widely 

 separated two similar rows of lateral white spots with sometimes a 

 median row of similarly formed white marks; sides below yellow or 

 pale brown clothed with brown puljescence intermixed in spots and 

 streaks with white, which becomes more abundant below and entirely 

 clothes the venter; tegument of venter yellowish, sometimes with four 

 rows of small brown dots which converge posteriorly. Spinnerets 

 brown. Epigynum light reddish brown, darker marginally. 



Sides of face steep, but little rounded and slanting outward below; 

 mrnlerate in height, the chelicerjp once and a half as long as its height 

 or nearly so. Dorsal line of cephalothorax nearly straight and level to 

 the posterior declivity. 



Anterior row of eyes considerably shorter than the second, reaching 

 but little beyond centers of eyes of thelatter. slightly procurved ;anterior 

 median eyes fully their diameter apart, half so far from the but slightly 

 smaller lateral eyes, their diameter or slightly less from eyes of second 

 row; anterior lateral eyes not fully twice their diameter from front 

 margin of clypeus. rather more than their diameter from eyes of second 

 row; eyes of second row their diameter apart ; (|uadranglc of posterior 

 eyes one-fourth the length of the cephalittiujrax. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 187 



Upper margin of furrow of chelicene with three teeth as in Lycosa; 

 lower margin with three teeth, of which the median one is stoutest 

 and some longest, the first well separatal from it but the third 

 contiguous with it at base, the latter tooth reduced but not so much 

 as in most Pardosas. Labium clearly wider than long (6.5 :6); basal 

 excavation one-fourth the total length; strongly attenuated anteriorly, 

 the sides straight or toward the middle weakly concave, anterior mar- 

 gin truncated or very slightly convex. 



Legs with tibia -I- patella of fourth pair of same length as tiie meta- 

 tarsus ; tibia + patella of the first legs of same length or a little shorter 

 than the cephalothorax ; tarsi clothed as usual ; spines of anterior tibiae 

 sl< usua. (PI. VIII, figs. 7 and 9.) 



Epigynum pentagonal in form, its anterior portion triangular; 

 posterior foveae relatively small, abruptly depressed, each roughly 

 pentagonal in shape with the longest side along the septal piece of 

 guide; lateral ridges behind narrow, converging but rather widely sep- 

 aratetl behind, not bent abruptly inward toward each other as in alra. 

 (PI. XIII, fig. 5.) 



Total length, 7 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 3 mm. ; width, 2.3 mm. 



Length of leg I, 8.1 mm. ; tib. + pat., 2.8 mm. ; met., 1.9 mm. 



Length of leg II, 8.1 mrn. 



Length of leg III, 9 mm. 



Length of le;^ I \', 12.1 mm.; tib. + pat., 3.7 mm. ; met., 3.7 nun. 



Male. — Cephalothorax darker than in the female, the median band 

 obscure and lusually not at all evident except caudally and about the 

 dorsal furrow; lateral pale bands narrower and more obscure and the 

 marginal dark line or stripe wider. Chelicerce black or l)rownish black 

 except distally and along the mesal surface. Sternum entirely black. 

 Abdomen above entirely black, showing no markings; venter diLsky 

 brown to gray black; pubescence, as also of cephalothorax, as in female. 

 Legs with femora above black or nearly so except distal, also usually 

 paler beneath ; more distal joints of two anterior pairs of legs pale, with 

 faint annuli or entirely uiunarked, the corresponding joints on the 

 pasterior legs darker but also with markings faint. Palpi entirely l)lack 

 except the patolhe wliich are light brown. 



Tibia of palpus a little longer than the j)atella and stouter distally. 

 Scopus vor>' long, curving obliquely forwani and outward quite across 

 the bulb. (PI. XIII, fig. 6.) 



Total length, 5.5 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 3 mm.; width, 

 2.1 mm. 



Ivongth of leg I, S.7 nun. ; tib. -f- pat., 3 nun. ; mot., 2.2 mm. 




188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Len.2:th of leg 11. 8.3 mm. 



Length of leg 111, 8.3 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 11.4 mm. ; tiij. + pat., 3.5 mm. ; met., 3.5 mm. 



S^ni.— 1S9(). Lyco.^a sternalis, Marx. Proc. U. S. N. M., 12, p. 563. 

 1894. Pardof:a stemalifi. Banks, J. X. Y. Ent. Soc, 2, p. 51. 



1894. Pardosn coloradensifs Banks (at least ad. part, niagn.), J. N. Y. Ent. 

 Soc, 2, p. 51. 



1895. Pardosa coloraden.-iia Banks, Ann. N. Y. .\cad. Sci., S, p. 429 (Jrs.). 

 1895. Pardosa luteola. Banks, but not Emerton, loc. rit. 



1904. Pardosa sternalis, Chamberlin, Can. Ent., pp. 147 and 175. 



Type localitj/. — Colorado. 



Known localities. — Colorado!, Utah!, Idaho!, Kansas!, Iowa!. 



A strongly marked species very common in the West. 



Specimens of coloradensis Bks. in Mr. Banks' collection, which he 

 kindly permitted me to study, are the not fully mature individuals of 

 the species above described. 



Pardosa atra Bank<:, 1S94. 



(J. X. Y. Ent. Soc, Vol. 2, p. 52.) 

 Female. — Cephalothorax brownish black, lighter brown along the 

 mifldle, and with a few indistinct paler marks at borders especially 

 behind, not rarely a pale transverse stripe entirely across the posterior 

 margin ; eye regif)n deep black ; median light band constricted in front 

 of dorsal groove, becoming anteriorly ver\'dark or obscure. Cephalo- 

 thorax with metlian band and side marks in life clothed with whitish 

 or light gra}' pubescence, the hair elsewhere dark brown ; the entire 

 eye region with numerous long dark bristles which project forward. 

 Chclicerce V)lackish. reddish brown distally. Labium and cndites deep 

 brown to blackish. Sternum black. Coxte of legs beneath brown 

 suflFiLsed with blackish. Legs blackish, paler distally; the femora with 

 a few mottlings of reddish brown, the other joints indistinctly or 

 obscurely annulate with the same color; legs densely pubescent and 

 with numerous long erect black bristles. Dorsimi of abdomen black ; a 

 paler reddish-brown spear-shaped mark at ba-^c; the basal stripe con- 

 tiguous at its apex with a large pale spot on each side, these spots with 

 the characteristic black dot at center; posteriorly two rows of similar 

 spots which are confluent at the mesal line in pail's, thus forming a 

 series of wide chevron-fonned marks; df)i"sum at sides with rather 

 large reddish brown dot.s or spots, the entire dorsum often ai)pearing 

 retldish brown covered over with an irregular network of black; sides 

 similar to lateral portions of dorsum but light color more abundant 

 venter of alxlomen brown except along sides where are some irregular 

 black marks. Epigj/num and spinnerets fuscous. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 189 



Face of a\'erage height and shape. 



First row of eijcs but sHghtly procui*ved, iiiucli shorter than tlie 

 second; anterior meflian eyes about their diameter apart, only half so 

 far from the lateral eyes, of usual distance from eyes of second row : 

 anterior lateral eyes situatetl as usual; eyes of the second row 

 more than their diameter apart, half as far again from the eyes of the 

 much wider third row; quadrangle of posterior eyes not entirely one- 

 fourth as long as the eephalothorax. 



Labium much wider than long (S.25 rO.o); basal excavation very 

 short, scarcely more than one-sixth the length of the labium; lal)ium 

 anteriorly strongly attenuated, sides roundetl just above basal notch. 

 but above nearly straight for most of length; antero-lateral angles 

 widely rounded; front margin gently widely incurved.' (Pi. Vlll. 

 fig. 3.) 



Lcijs with the tibia + patella of the fourth pair of the same length 

 as the metatarsus; tibia + patella of the fii-st pair clearly shorter than 

 the length of the eephalothorax; spines of anterior tibiae of usual 

 fonii and arrangement; tai-si of ant(>rior jiaii's with thin scopulap at 

 sides. 



Epujytium a strongly c-hitinizcd siil)o\al area which is ti'uncate 

 behind ; the posterior foveae relatively small, circular, deep and al)ruptly 

 delimitcil ; lateral ridges bent inward toward each other l)ehinil, the 

 space Ix'twecn their ends occupied by tlie ])ost(M'ior end of the short 

 clavate guide which separates the fov(>a'; the anterior and greater 

 area of the epigynum scarcely depressed each side of tiie niedian line. 



(Pi.xin,fig.8;) 



Total length, nun. Lengtii of tlie eephalothorax, ."i.S mm.; 

 width, 2.9 nun. 



Length of leg 1, 9.S nun., lib. 4- pat., '.i.'-i mm. ; met.. 2 mm. 



Length of leg II, 9.7 nun. 



Length of leg III, 9.0 nun. 



Length of leg I\', 13.4 nun. ; tib. + pat., 1 nnn.; met., 4 mna. 



Type localUy. — Colorado. 



Known localities. — Colorado!, I'tali!. 



In some respects tliis sipecies is like (jranlamUca. The eephalothorax 

 is smaller with the head narrower and more elevatetl. It is also 

 darker and its markings are less distinct. The epigynum seems con- 

 stant in its form and is easily distinguishe<| from that of granlnm/icn. 

 The mnlian ])ieee of guide at times is similarly somewhat elevated 

 anteriorly. 

 13 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Pardosa emertoni Chamberlin, 1904. 



(Can. Entomologist, Vol. XXXVI, p. 175.) 

 Cephalothorax with a deep brown longitudinal band enclosing the 

 eyes of each side and extending to the posterior end of cephalothorax, 

 the two leaving between them and also along each border a yellow 

 band, the two dark bands and the three yellow bands being of approxi- 

 mately the same width; each marginal band is bisected posteriorly by a 

 dark supramarginal line; the median band often of a reddish tinge; the 

 lateral dark bands united in front across the face, enclosing the eyes 

 of the first and second rows, the median pale band narrowing and 

 ending in a point between the second and third eye rows; marginal 

 bands continuous in front with the yellow cljqjeus; in life the yellow 

 bands covered with white pubescence, which extends also from median 

 band forward between eyes to clypeus; sides of cephalothorax covered 

 with brown pubescence. Cheliceroe yellow, with sparee white hair 

 and long dark brown bristles. Labium brown. Endites and coxcb 

 of legs beneath yellow. Sternum yellow, with four rows of black spots 

 which converge posteriorly, the two inner rows uniting posteriorly 

 into a single line; clothed with white hair. Legs 3^ellow to brown; the 

 femora above dark, blackish, or with blackish streaks, but pale beneath ; 

 tibiae and tai*si of posterior pairs sometimes darkened; clothed with 

 white pubescence and some s})arser dark hail's. Abdomen with a 

 black band across the anterior face which extends backward on each 

 side across the antero-lateral angle as a narrow stripe which reaches to 

 the spinnerets, the two black stripes leaving a wide raldish yellow 

 mpilian band which is widest in front; in the basal portion of the doreal 

 yellow band are two black lines or rows of black dots which meet in a 

 point at the middle forming thus a spear-shaped outline; behind the 

 dorsal band is more or less indistinctly divided by narrow transverse 

 lines into .segments which contain each two minute black dots; sides of 

 abdomen pale yellow with numerous small black spots which are more 

 scattered vcntrally and which arc absent from a spot beneath each 

 antero-lateral angle; venter pale or whitish yellow with two rows of 

 black spots converging from the genital furrow to the sjiinnerets; 

 abdomen with the dark bands and spots clothed with brown hair, else- 

 where densely clothcxl with white hair which gives its color to the 

 abdomen in life or when dry. Spinnerets yellow. Epigynum yellow, 

 darker marginally. 



Cephnlothornx highest between eyes of secoml ami thin! rows, con- 

 cave between eyes of third row and tlie posterior declivity. Face 

 high, as high fM< the length of the chelicene which are small and nar- 

 rowe<i distallv. 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 191 



First row of eyes much shorter than the second, hardly or not quite 

 extending from center to center of the eyes of the latter row. a little 

 procurved; anterior median eyes three-fourths their diameter apart, 

 somewhat closer to the smaller lateral eyes ; anterior lateral eyes twice 

 their diameter from front margin of clj-peus, once and a half their 

 diameter from eyes of second row; anterior median e3'es more than 

 their diameter from eyes of second row; eyes of second row some less 

 than once and a half their diameter apart; quadrangle of posterior 

 eyes rather more than one-fourth the length of the cephalothorax. 



Labium evidently wider than long (5,75 :5); basal excavation about 

 one-fifth the total length of labium; labium in front of excavations 

 broadly cordate, the sides converging to a rounded point in front (PI. 

 Mil, fig, 6), in middle region substraight but above convexly 

 curving to the middle point. 



Legs slender, metatarsus longer than tibia + patella of the fourth 

 pair; the two latter joints together clearly longer than the cephalo- 

 thorax; tibia 4- patella of first legs of nearly same length as the cephalo- 

 thorax; spines and scopula^ of usual character. 



Septal piece of the guide of the epigynum in front rather narrow 

 with .sides .subparallel. but posteriori}' abruptly and widely expanded 

 int(j a circular lolx' which covei's over most of the caudal {portion of the 

 epigynum. (PI, XIV, fig. 1.) 



Total length. 0.3 nun. Length of cephalothorax, 2.0 nun.; width, 

 2.1 mm. 



Length of leg I. 8.8 mm. ; tib. -f- pat., 3 mm. ; met., 2 mm. 



Length of leg H. S.O mm. 



Length of leg 111, ,S.2 nun. 



Length of leg IV, 12.4 mm. ; tib, + pat,, 3,8 mm, ; met., 4 nuji. 



Male. — Male palj)i black distally ; front legs and head darker than in 

 the female, but otherwise there is not nuieh difference i)etween them. 



The Scopus of the palpal organ is very long ami witlo and curvetl 

 oijliquely outward across the bulb, 



Syn. — 1885. Pardosn jxillida P-iii<rton, Traiw. Conn. .\c;ul. Svi., 0, p. 496, 

 PI. 49. figs. 3 to lie. (Sow. prcocc. Ijv /'. /HiUida Wiilck., I.S.IT.) 



189(). Pnnlom pnlliiia, Marx, Proc. U.'S. .\. N., 12, p. .'><>.'). 



1892. Pardosa jxtlUda. liunk.«. Prof. Arud. Nut. Sci. Pliiln.. 44. j). (\S. 



1W)3. Pardosa /w/Zufa, Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., p 053, 

 PI. 29, fig. 3. 



Type locality. — New Hampshire, 



Kiwxm localities. — New Hampshire!, MaHsaclnusett.**, Connecticut, 

 New York!, Di.ntrict of Columbia!, Ontario!, Manitoba!. 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [MSV, 



Fardosa distincta (Blackwall). 1846. 



(-\nn. and Mag. Nat. Hist., Vol. XVII, pp. 32, 33.) 



Female 6 mm. lono;; light yellow with brown markings. 



The cepJuilothorax has two wide brown longitudinal stripes imiteil at 

 the front of the head where they are nearly black, and a fine dark line 

 each side next the legs. The sides of the abdomen are brown, with a 

 ver>' distinct light spot over the dorsal vessel, and a row of transvei-se 

 light spots behind. The sternum is brown with a light spot in the 

 middle. The abdomen is light beneath with a narrow brown stripe 

 half its length on each side. The epigynum is bright orange brown, 

 and the front pair of spinnerets are black. The legs are spotted with 

 brown, the spots sometimes grouped in rings; the tibiip are the darkest 

 parts of the legs. 



The epigynum has the guide short and wide, but this part is trans- 

 parent and the overlapping sides are not easily seen, so that it ap- 

 pears narrow. (PI. XV, fig. 8.) 



In the male the cephalothorax and abdomen are darker, and the legs 

 lighter except at the base, where the upper sides of the coxae and part 

 of the femora are darker than in the female. The head and palpi are 

 black, with the patella and tibia a little lighter on top and probably 

 having some light hairs when alive. 



The male palpi are large, the tarsus being about as long as tibia and 

 patella. The palpal organ is dark colored and projects a little from 

 the bowl of the tarsus. The basal hook is rounded in the middle and 

 curves in a hook toward the base. (PI. X\' , fig. 9.) 



This species is about the same size and color as P. pallida Emerton of 

 New England. The sternum is dark with a light median stripe on its 

 front half, while in pallida the sternum is light with four dark lines or 

 rows of spots converging behind. In the males the palpi, mandibles and 

 maxilla? are darker than in pallida. The e])igynum resembles that of 

 pallida, but is shorter and wider. The male j)alpi have the scopus 

 short and tiirned down at the point, while in pallida it is long and 

 slender, and extends across the whole width of palpus. (Emerton.) 



Svn. — 1S94. Pardnm luteoln Eiju'rton, Trans. Conn. ,\cad., Vol. it, p. IJ", 

 ' PI. 3, fiR. 7. 



locality. — Canada. 



Pardoia californioa Kcywrling, 1887. 



(WtIi. z. b. fJrs. Wi.-n, 37, p. 483, PI. Ti, fiR. -It.) 

 Female (type). — Sides of ccphaUnhornx dark brown, the eye region 

 black; a m<>dian light yellowish brown band of the usual dagger shape. 




190S.] NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 193 



produced anteriorly as a tongue-like process between the eyes of the 

 third row, this process divided b}' a median black line produoetl back- 

 ward from in front; behind the third eye row the median band is 

 abruptly extende<l later^ll)' on each side, the widened region being nearly 

 though not fully as wide as the third eye row. the band then again 

 abruptly narrowed until but half so wide, continuing of this width 

 alxiut the dorsal furrow, then passing down the posterior decUvity 

 and narrowing to an acute point near the posterior margin; on each 

 side a marginal light band which extends for the entire length and 

 attaifLS the clypeiis in front, the band interrupted and sometimes 

 obscurefl by brown spots; clypeus pale, but with a triangular black 

 spot below each anterior lateral eye, the apex of the spot, as usual, 

 being upward and contiguous with the black surrounding the eyes. 



Chdicerce light reddish yellow; each at base with a black mark or 

 line which passes obliquely outward and distally, and with a larger 

 mark parallel with the first beginning at the inner side near the middle 

 and running obliquely outward and distally. Ixihium and endites with 

 yellow jjackground, which in each case is nearly covered over by a 

 central black area. Sternum yellow with a large black spot on each 

 side extending from the middle to the front margin, leaving the 

 metlian area yellow; behind with numerous minute dark dots. Coxce 

 of legs beneath smoky yellow. Legs reddish yellow, all joints except 

 the tarsi with rather heavy black rings, these rings being incomplete 

 on the femora along the post€ro-inferior face except at the distal end. 

 Palpi colored like legs, but annuli less heavy. Abdomen above and on 

 the sides black with numerous minute retldish yellow dots; dorsum 

 at base vvith a reddish-yellow spear-shapal stripe reaching caudad to 

 the middle; near each lateral margin of the basal stripe toward the 

 front is a row of two or throe black spots, and each side of its aj)ex is an 

 obliquel}'' plafe<l angular light spot enclosing a central black spot; on 

 the posterior portion of dorsum a .series of several chevron-marks, 

 each seemingly formed by tlu* coalescence at the mesal line of two black 

 centered, angular light spots such as found each side of apex of the 

 basal mark; venter yellow, darker about the sides and cauda<l anil 

 with a me«lian dark stripe as wide as epigynum in front, but narrow- 

 ing to a truncate end behind and not reaching to the spinnerets. 

 Epigynum light reddish brown. 



Sides of fno' nearly straight, steep but not vertical, in height con- 

 siderably shorter than the length of the chelicene. 



Anterior row of eyes much shorter than the second, not extending 

 mf»re than between the centers of eyes of the latter, gently procurved; 




194 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY' OF [^^ay, 



anterior median eyes more than three-fourths their diameter apart, 

 about two-thirds as far from the scarcely smaller lateral eyes, fully their 

 diameter from eyes of second row; anterior lateral eyes twice their 

 diameter from front margin of clypeus, slightly more than their dia- 

 meter from eyes of second row; eyes of second row their diameter 

 apart; quadrangle of post€rior eyes as wide in front as long, wider 

 behind than in front in the ratio of 4 : 3, some more than one-fourth 

 as long as the cephalothorax. 



Chelicerce with furrows armed below as usual with three teeth, of 

 which the middle is a little longest, the third not very much reduced ; 

 the upper margin with three teeth of Avhich the first is minute. 



Tibia + patella of fourth legs of same length as the metatarsus; 

 tibia + patella of firet pair of same length as the cephalothorax; legs 

 of fourth pair four times as long as the cephalothorax; tarsi as usual 

 in the genus, those of the first two pairs of legs being scopulate laterally, 

 those of the posterior pairs simply setose; tibiae of first and second 

 pairs of legs with three pairs of spines below as is normal, the two first 

 pairs of these verj'- long and overlapping ; all tarsi straight or nearly so. 



Epigynum presenting no distinct lateral ridges posteriorly; lateral 

 plates of the guide very wide, extending laterally to or nearly to the 

 ends of the transverse piece and nearly as wide in front as behind, 

 covering over nearly completely the posterior half of the epigynal 

 area. (PI. XIV, fig. ").) 



Total length, 6.8 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 2.9 mm.; width, 

 2.1 mm. 



Length of leg I, 8.4 mm. ; tib. + pat., 2.9 mm. ; met., 1.9 mm. 



length of leg II, 8 mm. 



Length of leg III, 8 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 12.1 mm. ; tib. + pat., 3.6 mm. ; met.. 3.6 mm. 



Male (type). — Cephalothorax in color drab brown, with the head 

 r^ion black; a narrow and short, inconspicuous median stripe over the 

 dorsal groove but not distingui.shable in front of it, narrowing behind 

 as in female, not reaching posterior margin ; marginal pale bands nearly 

 as in the female but obscure<l anteriorly. Clypeus not jiale, black like 

 hea<l region. Labium and cnditcs blackish, pale distally. Sternum 

 nearly as in female. Palpi entirely black. Legs yellow, the femora with 

 inconspicuous black marks above, other joints with dark circular lines 

 about bases of the spines but otherwise luimarked. Abdomen much as 

 in female but with the markings much obscured. 



Scopus of palpal organ short and blunt, much as in lapiflicina; 

 anterior margin of conductor much thickenfMl, presenting three fler^hy 

 \o\)On witlt af)iccH projecting backward ov«'r the furrow. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADfXPHIA. 195 



S\Ti. — 1890. Pardosa californica, Marx, Proc. V . S. X. M., IJ. 

 1904. Pardom californica, Chaniberlin, Canadian Ent., p. 14(). 



Tjjpe locality. — California. 



Known localities. — California!, Utah!. 



This is a common Pardosa on the Pacific Coast. Specimens from 

 Utah are lighter colore<l than those which I have seen from California 

 (including Keyserling's types, described above, which have of coui-se 

 darkened in the alcohol). In the Utah specimens the lateral yellow 

 stripes are wide, with the upper margin sinuous and with a black line 

 along the lower, a somewhat indistinct and irregular black line dividing 

 the stripes longitudinally; endites yellow; labium and sternum brown, 

 the latter usually not showing the black markings as described above 

 for the type; chevnjn-marks of dorsum containing each from two to 

 four black dots, as if formetl by the confluence of as many light, black- 

 centerefl dots; sides gray black with numerous minute brown dots; 

 venter immaculate light gray or with a few small dark dots back of 

 epigynum and at each side; spinnerets pale yellow. Cephalothorax 

 in life clothe<l with light gray and brown hair, the sides with brown, 

 the median band especially posteriorly with gray, and the lateral stripes 

 with gray except along the geminating dark line, the me<lian stripe in 

 front with brown and gray pubescence intermixed. Cheliccra- with 

 light gray hair and long brown liristles. Sternum and legs with light 

 gray hair, the latter with longer brown bristles. Abdomen clothed 

 above with chiefly light brown hair, light gray or white hair in spots 

 on each side and forming some transverse lines posteriorly, scattereil 

 longer dark brown bristles; sides of abdomen with brown and gray 

 pubescence intermixed in streaks and spots; venter with hair unmixetl 

 gray. 



Pardosa lapidicina lOmcrton, 188.5. 



(Trans. Conn. Acad., (>, p. 491, Tl. 4S, figs. .') to .')C) 

 Female.— Sides of the cephalothorax black; a lighter, though some- 

 times indistinct or even obscure me<lian \nun\ of dark rcMldisJi brown 

 color which begins as a narrow process between tlie posterior eyes, 

 behind the third eye row abruptly widens and is constrictetl in front of 

 dorsal furrow, at the caudal end of which it is strongly narrowe<l. it.s 

 margin more or less dentate; on each side, at lea^t posteriorly, a row of 

 supramarginal light spots which are sometimes obscuretl, but in others 

 are long and distinct; eyes surrounde<l with black; hihium black, not 

 paler than sides of cephalothorax; sides of cephalotiiorax clotluMJ 

 densely with rather long gray or brownish gray to blackish pube»«cence, 




1{»6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [MaV, 



which quite conceals the light markings of the tegument and gives the 

 oephalothorax a uniform grayish black ajjpearance. Chclicercc reddish 

 brown to reiUli'=^h yellow, usually with a black median mark at base, 

 clothetl densely with white pubescence, with spai-se longer dark brown 

 bristles. Enditcs yellow or light brown, paler apically, often dusky. 

 labium deeper colored than endites, dark brown to black. Sternum 

 black, clothed sulxlensely with short whitish or light gray pubescence. 

 Legs yellow to brown; on all joints except the tarei with black annuli 

 which are broadest proximally, being on the femora often confluent 

 below and laterally, leaving light spots only above; the legs have usualh' 

 a bluish or greenish-gray hue proximally, especially on ventral surface. 

 Abdomen with tegument above and over sides bluish black, a black- 

 margined lanceolate mark at base al)Ove. followed on each side behind 

 by a row of irregular pale spots; the median region behind, in some 

 with, but in others without, irregular light chevron-marks, enclosing 

 the characteristic dark spots, in some pale specimens entire dorsum 

 and sides with many light spots, irregularly connected above into a 

 network ; venter light brown, of bluish to greenish gray cast, rarely 

 black, in some a dark median band behind spinnerets; doi-sum and sides 

 covered with brown and grayish pubescence, the venter with grayish. 



Face moderately high, the sides substraight and very steep, nearly 

 vertical. 



First row of e>jcs nuich .shorter than the second, but little procurved ; 

 anterior me<lian eyes fully three-fourths their diameter apart, evidently 

 closer to the lateral eyes, than which they are slightly larger; anterior 

 lateral eyes, as usual, twice their diameter from front margin of clypeus, 

 their diameter from eyes of second row; eyes of second row about once 

 and a (piarter their diameter aj>art; quadrangle of posterior eyes one- 

 fourth a.s long a.s the cephalothorax, a little wider in front than long. 

 ChelicercE arme<l as typical f<)r the genus, having two teeth above and 

 three below with the third ro<luce<l. Lnhiiim wider than long in ratio of 

 about 9:8.25; basal excavation one-fourth total length, strongly 

 attenuate*! anteriorlj^; the front margin nearly straight, slightly 

 incurve* I mesally. 



Leas long and .-lender; imtatai*sus of fourth pair longer than tibia + 

 patella of same pair; .spines below on anterior tibiffi as usual; scopultB 

 of typical form. 



Kpigynum with theguide inversely T-sha|)e<l,thenuHlian piece pointed 

 anteriorly and nf)t extending into front portion of depression, which is 

 thus undivide<l ; transverse arms widest rlistally ; lateral plates of guide 

 yen- narrow. ( I'l. XIN', fig. 7.) 




1908.] NATLRAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



Total length, 9.3 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 3.7 mm.; width, 

 3 mm. 



Length of leg I. 13.1 mm. ; til). + pat.. 4.8 mm. ; met., 3.5 mm. 



Length of leg IL 12.5 mm. 



Length of leg IH, 12.8 mm. . 



Length of leg IV. 7.3 mm. ; tib. + pat., 5.3 mm. ; met., 5.5 mm. 



Male. — Color much as in female but darker and the markings more 

 obscure; the legs often almost entirely black, showing no annulations 

 e.xcept distally or none at all. Tarsus of palpus black, as also the 

 femur and often the tibia, the patella lighter. Smaller than female. 



Tibia of palpus with sides substraight, enlarging from base to apex, 

 clearly narrower than the tarsus. Scopus very short, about as broad as 

 long, distally roundetl and a little uncate at exterior side; spur usually 

 in front concealed by fold; embolus short, extending but little beyond 

 middle; conductor divide<l into two open furrows by a narrow chitinous 

 ritlge extending obliquely downward and outward, the posterior mar- 

 gin of the exterior furrow with two short, uncate tenacula close together 

 or in part overlapping. (PI. XIV, fig. 8.) 



Total length, 6 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 3 mm. ; width, 2.3 mm. 



Length of leg I, 10.1 mm. ; tib. + pat., 3.3 mm. ; met., 2.9 mm. 



Lengtii of leg II. 10.2 mm. 



Length of leg 111, 10.4 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 13.6 mm. ; lib. 4- pat., 4.3 mm. ; met., 4.4 mm. 



Sj-n.— 1892. Pardosa lapidicim, Mar.\, Proc. Ent. Soc. W. 2, p. Ifil. 



. Pardoaa lapidicina, Bank.i, Proc. .\cad. Xat. .Sri. Phila., p. OS. 



. Pardosa ohsolcin Hanks, ibid., p. 71, PI. 3, lip. 4o. 



. Pardosa venusta Haiik.s, ibid., p. 09, PI. 1, figs. 42, 42a. 



1894. Pardosa lapidicina Einorton, Trans. Conn. Acad. Sci., 9, p. 42S. 

 19f)2. Pardosa lapidicitui Eincrton, Common Sp. U. S., p. 78, figs. 186, 187, 

 188. 



1903. Pardosa lapidicina, Montgomery, Proc. .\ca<l. Xat. Sci. Pliila., p. 

 6.52, JM. 29, figs. 6, 9. 



1904. Pardosa nicrnirialis Montgomery, Proc. .\<iui. Nat. Sci. Pliila., p. 

 270, PI. XIX, figs. 20. 21. 



. Pardo-m lexana Hanks, J. X. V. Ent. S<)c., p. ll.">, PI. V, fig. 4. 



7'v/»c locality. — Ma.ssachusctt.s and Connecticut. 



Ildliitaf. — Ma'^sacluisotts. Connecticut. Rhrxle Island!, Canada. 

 New Vork!. New Jersey !, District of Columbia!, Peimsylvania, Indiana!, 

 Iowa !, Kansa.s !, Arkansas !, Texas !. 



A very familiar species in the Northern States, found among stones 

 along streams and also to some extent remote from wat<'r in dry places. 

 Its general dark gray color blends well with the color of the stones among 

 which it lives. Specimens from theWest andSoutli are commonly much 

 lighter than specimens from the Xortheast. and iii them the marginal 




198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF PlaV, 



spots on the cephalothorax form a band except for narrow dark 

 crass-lines; the legs are more conspicuously annulate, the light rings 

 contrasting more strongly with the dark. As other species having 

 the same range as lapidicina undergo similar changes in brightness 

 of color, and especially since the light form of lapidicina and all 

 intermediate forms are not rare in the North, the Western specimens of 

 this Pardosa ought not to be granted rank as separate species or 

 variety. Type specimens of renusta Bks. that I have seen are not 

 fully adult, and agree perfectly with immature specimens of lapidicina. 



Pardosa zerampelina (Keyserling), 1876. 



(Sub Lycosa, Verb. z. b. Ges. Wien, 26, p. 622, PI. 7, fig. 8.) 



Female. — ^Sides of cephalothorax and eye region black or deep brown; 

 clypeus light brown; no distinct lateral light stripes, but sometimes a 

 few obscure light spots above margin on each side posteriorly ; a median 

 reddish brown band which is widest about the dorsal groove, behind 

 which it is strongly and more or less abruptly narrowed, the light 

 median band mostly dull and inconspicuous; in life the cephalothorax 

 is clothed along sides and on head and over median band behind by 

 whitish pubescence, the other parts clothed with Ijrown and black hair. 

 Chdicerce reddish brown, each with a short longitudinal j^ellowish 

 stripe above or at middle. Labium and endites brown, paler at tip. 

 Sternum dark reddish brown to Vjlackish brown, an obscure median 

 pale line anteriorly; clothed with light gray pubescence. Coxce of 

 legs beneath brown. Legs yellow to brown; all joints excepting the 

 tarsi ringed with black; the femora dorsally are distinctly darker 

 than the other joints; clothed with brown and light gray pubescence, 

 the gray over the light parts, the brown over the darker. Abdomen 

 above black or nearly so; a lanceolate basal mark of brown; basal stripe 

 joined at two points on each side near its apex by the ends of a V-shaped 

 mark the apex of which is<lirecte<l laterally; posteriorly a series of light 

 transverse more or less chevron-shaj)e<l markings; all markings of 

 dorsum more or less faint; sides of alxlomen and part of the venter 

 about the spinnerets black, the venter elsewhere being light brown; 

 abdomen clothed above with brown pul)esccnce with a row of small 

 spots of whitish hair along each side; venter of alxlomen clothetl with 

 light gray pul>eKccnce. .Spinnerets brown. Epigynum l)rown, with the 

 dejjression showing as a distinctly darker \'-shape<l figure with apex 

 caudal. 



Face hi^h, the chclicene but little longer llian its height ; sides of face 

 Bubstraiiiht, steep but a little slanting outward from above downward. 




1908.] ii NATUR.U. SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA, 199 



Dorsal line of cephalothorax in profile straight in front of the tloi-sal 

 furrow, at which it is but slightly depressed. 



Anterior row of eyes shorter than the second in the usual degree, 

 only slightly procun-ed ; anterior median eyes four-fifths their diameter 

 apart, much closer to the but- slightly smaller lateral eyes, their diam- 

 eter from eyes of second row ; anterior lateral eyes fully twice their 

 diameter from front margin of clypeus, once and a half their diameter 

 from eyes of second row; quadrangle of posterior eyes one-fourth as 

 long as the cephalothorax. 



Margins of furrow of chelicerce arme<l as usual. Labium wider than 

 long, strongly attenuated, anteriorly truncated or a little concave. 



Legs with tibia + patella of the fourth pair shorter than the meta- 

 tarsus; tibia 4- patella of the first pair shorter than the cephalothorax; 

 spines of anterior tibia) as usual, the fii"st two pail's long and overlap- 

 ping ; tarsi clothed in the common manner, 



Epigynum clearly wider in front than posteriorly; guide widest 

 anteriorly narrowing caudally, the transverse arms of guide short, the 

 guide plates extending to their ends; lateral ridges but weakly elevated, 

 (PI. XIV, fig. 3.) 



Total length, 8 mm. Length of cephalothorax, '-^.l mm.; width. 

 2.6 mm. 



Length of leg L 10.2 mm. ; tib. -f- pat., .3.3 mm. : met.. 2.3 mm. 



Length of leg II, 9.5 mm. 



Jjcngth of leg III, 9.3 mm. 



Length of leg W\ 14 mm. ; tib. 4- pat., 4 mm. ; met.. 4.3 mm. 



Male. — Smaller than the female but differing but little in coloration. 

 "The male palpi are long and the joints scarcely enlarged.'' {V\. 

 XIV, fig. 4.) 



Small specimens are 5 mm. long. 



Syn. — 1877. Lycosa impavida Thorcll, Hull. U. S. Geol. .Sur. Terr., \o\. 3, 



p. 513. 

 1878. Liicom tachypoda Thorell, Am. Nat., June, 1878. 

 188.5. Fardoxa montana Etnerton, Tran.*. Conn. Acad. Sri., fl, p. 498, I'l. 49, 



figs. .5. 'hi. 

 1890. Lycosa xcramjKlina, Marx, Proc. U. IS. N. M., 12. 



, Lycnsn imj>arida, Mar.x, ibid.. 



, Lyroxa tachyjxjda, .Marx, ibid. 



. Ptirdosa nionlana, .Marx, ibid. 



1892. ? Pnrdosa munUina, Maiiks, I'roc. Acad. .Nat. .Sci. Pliila., 4-1, p. 70. 

 1894. Pardoaa tachypoda, Enierton, Tranf . Conn. Acad. Sci., 9, p. 427, PI. 3, 



Ars. <», Cut. 

 IKO."). Pardom impaiida, Hankf*. .\nn. N. V. .\cad. S<'i., Vol. 8, p. 430. 

 1(K)2. Pardnsa larfi'/jtoda and viuntana, Enierton, Common Sp. of V. S., p. 



SI, fiR.M. 193 to 19(i. 

 l90'J. Pirala procunua Montgomery, Proc. .\cail. Nat. .Si. I'hila., p. 583, 



P1..30, fig. 48. 




200 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE AC.VDEMV OF [MaV, 



Tyjpe locality. — ^Illinois. 



Known localities. — Xew Hampshire!, Massachusetts, IlUnoLs, Color- 

 ado!. Utah!. Xew York?, PeiinsA-lvania, Canada. 



Essentialh" a Xorthem and mountain species. It is not uncommon 

 in Canada and in the ^Miite Mountains of Xew England, but does not 

 occur commonly more southward. It also ranges south from Canada 

 along the Rocky Mountains, and Ls common in Colorado and Utah. 



Fardosa graenlandicaCnioreU). 1872. 



'.>ub Lycosa, Ofvers. af. Vet. Akad. Forh., 29.) 



Female. — Cephalothorax black or nearly so; a Ughter, brown median 

 band beginning only a Uttle in front of dorsal furrow, passing over the 

 latter and then narrowing to a line on the posterior declivit}-; from the 

 front of the median band a horn-shaped yellow mark extends out- 

 warrl and forward on each side toward the corresponding eye of the 

 third row. which, however, it does not reach; more rarely these horn- 

 like marks are obscure or quite absent ; a row of three or less commonly 

 four cuned light marks above the margin of each side; hair of 

 cephalothorax long, brown and light gray or whitish intermixed, the 

 whitish hair more or less unmi.xed with brown on the clypeus, the light 

 supramarginal marks and on the median light area behind. Chelicerce 

 reddish-yellow or brown above and black distally. the lighter color 

 often rei^luced to a few spots; clothed with short light gray hair and 

 longer brown bristles. Labium and endites brown, hghtor at tips. 

 Sternum black, clothed with gray hair. Coxa; of legs beneath brown. 

 Legs brown, mostly of a reddish hue; all joints, excepting tarsi, with 

 distinct black annulations; clothed with brown and whitish hair, 

 chief!}' o\er the dark and light parts respectively. Palpi brown; 

 femora ringe^l with black; patella unmarked; tibia; black at proximal 

 end and the tarsi black at tips. Abdomen above black or blackish 

 brown, the tegument either entirely without light markings or with a 

 lanceolate basal mark of reddish-brown color; each side of this mark at 

 it** base may be a spot of the same color, as also an obscure smaller spot 

 each side of apex behind ; more rarely there may be distinguishable 

 p^>steriorly a numljer of f)bsrurc light spots more or less confluent in 

 paii^; ab<lomen covered above with brown hair, with bunches of 

 white hair forming a row of white spots along each side; sides of 

 ab<lomen al)ove like the dorsum, Mow ligiit brown with numerous 

 darker, rerldwh-brown or rust-colored spots usually connected into a 

 continuou.<? network; sides coverc^l with l)rown and white hair inter- 

 mixed in streaks and spots and (juito concealing the tegument and its 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 201 



raarkinsrs; venter brown, with in most a me<lian and on each side a 

 lateral' stripe of reddish-brown or riLst color behind genital furrow, 

 these stripes formed by a close network; venter clothed with white 

 hair. Spinnerets brown, the anterior ones frequently darker or even 

 blackish. Epigynum reddish brown. 



Chelicerse rather long for a Pardosa, once and a fourth or more times 

 as long as the height of the face; sides of face nearly straight, steep. 



Anterior row of eyes much shorter than the second, slightly pro- 

 cur\'ed ; anterior median eyes their diameter apart or nearly so, rather 

 less than half as far from the lateral eyes, their diameter from eyes of 

 second row; anterior lateral eyes but slightly smaller than the median, 

 twice their diameter from front margin of clypeus and their diameter 

 from eyes of second row ; eyes of second row a little more than their 

 diameter apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes one-fourth the length of 

 the cephalothorax. 



Chelicene with the lower margin armed with three teeth of usual 

 proportions, the upper with two. Lfihium as wide as long or slightly 

 wider (8 : 7,8); basal excavation about one-fourth or slightly more the 

 length of the labium; strongly attenuated anteriorly; the sides roumle<l 

 bel(jw but straight or substraight above; front margin straight or very 

 slightly incurved. 



Legs with the metatarsus of the fourth pair longer than the tibia + 

 patella; tibia + patella of tiie first pair of the same length as the ceph- 

 alothorax; spines of tibije as usual; tai-si clothed as common in the 

 genus. 



Epigynum somewhat flask- or decanter-shaped, being narrow in 

 front but widely rounded behind ; lateral furrows narrow and shallow 

 in front, widely expanded behind; septum high, narrow in frf)nt and 

 more or less clavately widening caudally, higher than the transvei*se 

 arms, which are dark in color, more or less roimded above and bent 

 backward distally, their ends fitting into excavations in the lateral 

 ridges. ( PI. XIV, fig. 6.) 



Total length, 10.5 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 4.2 nmi.; width, 

 3.7 mm. 



IxMigth of leg I, 13inm.;tib. + i)at., 1.2 nun.; met., 3 mm. 

 I.«ngth of leg II, 12.5 mm. 

 T>ength of leg III, 12.S mm. 



l.«ngth of leg IV, 17.() mm.; tib. + pat., 5.1 nun. ; met.. 5.8 mm. 

 Male. — Color in general a« in the female though rather darker; palpi 

 entirely black and l)lack-hair(Hl or witli the patella i)aler ab(»ve; Uga 

 darker than in female, tlie light markiuL"* bcintr more re<lu<'e<l. The 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May. 



ccphnhthorox is a little lon<xer than the tibia + patella of the first legs. 

 Legs a little longer relativeh' than in the female. 



Palpi thick and short; patella as long as the tibia which is gradually 

 dilated distally; tarsus as long as the two precaling joints taken 

 together. The scopus is short ami blunt, its basal spur straight. 



Total length. 9.5 mm. Length of cephalothorax. 4.5 mm.; width. 

 3.5 mm. 



Length of leg I, 13 mm. 



Length of leg H, 13 mm. 



Length of IIL 13.5 mm. 



Length of leg IV. 17.75 mm. ; tib. + pat., 5 mm. 



Syn _1S77. Lijcosa tristis Thorell, Bull. U. S. G. Surv. Terr., Vol. 3, No. 2, 



p. 510. 



. Lycosa indigatrix Thorell, ihid., p. 512. 



. Lycosa iracunda Thorell, ibid., p. 514. 



. I/ycosa sinistra Thorell, ihid., p. 517. 



1878. Lycosa dromoea Thorell, Am. Nat., June. 



1885. Pardosa albomacidata Emerton, Trans. Conn. Acad. Sci., (j, p. 495, 



PI. 48, figs. 3 to 36. 

 1S90 Lycosa grcenlandira, Iriftis, indigatrix, iracunda, sinistra, Marx, 



Proc. U. S. N. M., 12, pp. 562, 563. 

 . Pardosa albomacidata, Marx, ibid., p. 565. 



1894. Pardosa graenlandica , Emerton, Trans. Conn. Acad. Sci., 9, p. 423, 

 PI. 4, figs. 1 to 1/. 



. Pardosa indigatrix and iraainda, Bank.s, J. X. \ . Ent. Soc, 2, pp. 51 



and .52. 



1895. Pardosa groenlaiidica and tristis. Banks, Ann. X. Y. Acad. Sci., 8, p. 

 430. 



1902. Pnrdn.m athomaculata or grcenlandica, Emerton, Common Sp. of U. 

 S., p. 79, figs. 189, 190. 



Tifpe locality. — Greenland. 



Knoam localities. — Greenland, Canada!, New England (White Moun- 

 tains)!, Colorado!. Utah!. 



"Bare rocks on the upper part of the White Mountains, running 

 very rapidly and dodging under stones at slight alarm" (Emerton). 



A boreal species. Common in the mountains of Utah and Colorado. 



Pardoia modica (Blackwall). 1846. 



(Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hi.st., Vol. XVII, p. 33.) 

 Femnlr.— Cephalothorax deep brown or black marke<l by two lateral 

 and a me<lian longitudinal pale stripe; eye region deep black; mtnlian 

 stripe rf^ldLsh brown, widest just behind third eye row, narrowe<l and 

 constrictc<l at the front end of the dorsal groove and again inuniMliatoly 

 behind it, geminated in front of the groove by a median black line; 

 lateral pale .^tripes supraniarginal. narrow, reaching to the clypeus in 

 front which is likewise pale; pale stripes clothed with white hair, the 




1908.] NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



dark parte with brown. Chelicerce yellowish to brown over front 

 face, darker at tips and along a narrow stripe extending down the 

 mesal face and turning obliquely outward below; also a dark line 

 along exterior face. Labium and oidites brown, usually darker toward 

 base. Cox(c of legs beneath brown. Sternum brown, with a black stripe 

 or row of black spots each side of the median line and a narrower black 

 line or row of small spots along each lateral margin; sometimes entirely 

 black; clothed with grayish white hair. Legs brown; femora marked 

 above and beneath with several longitudinal black lines or narrow 

 .stripes and with cross-marks on the sides; tibia above with a trans- 

 verse black band at the proximal end, and with a median longitudinal 

 black line extending from this to the distal end, and also with a similar 

 black line along each lateral face; the basal black band on posterior 

 tibiae usually half as wide as the length of the joint, narrow on 

 anterior ones; at least the posterior patellae with a median longitudinal 

 black line above and a similar one at each side ; metatarsi especially of 

 the posterior pairs with a more indistinct median dorsal line, the pos- 

 terior ones also usually annulate with dark ; the femora appear evidently 

 darker than the more distal joints and the posterior legs darker than 

 the anterior. Abdomen above brownish black; a basal lanceolate stripe 

 of reddish-brown color; a series of transverse lines behind of same color, 

 usually more indistinct, the.se marlcs formed of two rows of converging 

 spots as is usual; sides of alxlomen reddish brown mostly spotted with 

 black; venter light l)rown, often with two dark lines close together 

 along the median line and gradually converging caudad; sometimes a 

 similar dark line at each side; at other times the venter is brown 

 without markings or with dark spots at the sides; in life the abdomen 

 is clothed above over the dark parts with dark brown hair, the light 

 lanceolate basal mark coveretl with whitish hair, and a number of 

 transverse lines of similar light hair behind with or without a row of 

 small white spots along each side of them. Epigynum dark brown. 

 Spinnerets dark brown to black. 



Ceplutlothorax of motleratc height or rather low; in profile highest at 

 the third eye row. the dorsal line from there to the posterior declivity 

 nearly straight, gradually slanting, depresse<l each side of the doi-sal 

 groove. Chdicerct about once and a fourth as long as the face is high ; 

 sides of face nearly straight, slightly slanting from the vertical. 



Anterior row of eyes of the iLsual relative length and curvature; 

 anterior me<lian eyes their diameter apart or nearly so, much closer 

 to the lateral eyes; anterior lateral eyes smaller than the median, a 

 little more than their iliametcr from eyes of second row, twice their 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



diameter from front margin of clypeus; eyes of second row their diam- 

 eter apart ; quadrangle of posterior eyes one-fourth the length of the 

 cephalothorax, as wide in front as long. 



Teeth of the margins of the furrow of the cheliccrce of the typical 

 arrangement and form. Labium of the same width as length or 

 nearly so; labium about four and a half times longer than its basal 

 excavation; attenuated as usual; sides above straight; front margin 

 straight. 



Legs with the tibia -I- patella of the fourth pair a little longer than 

 the metatarsus or sometimes of the same length ; tibia + patella of the 

 first legs evidently shorter than the cephalothorax; spines of tibiae 

 and clothing of tarsi as usual. 



The epigynum in its general form resembles that of grcenlandica; 

 the septal piece of guide is more abruptly depressed anteriorly, usually 

 widened into a quadrangular form at front of the wide foveae and then 

 davately widening caudally ; transvei^se anns of guide more conspicu- 

 ous, strongly bent fonvard at their ends; posterior ends of lateral 

 ridges more widely separated. (PI. W, figs. 1 and 3.) 



Total length, 9 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 4 mm. : width, 3 mm. 



Length of leg I, 9.5 mm. ; tib. + pat., 3.3 mm.; met., L7 mm. 



Length of leg II, 9.2 mm. 



length of leg III, 9.2 mm. 



Length of leg IV, L3. 7 mm.; tib. + pat., 4.2 mm.; met., 4 mm. 



Male. — Coloration similar to that in female but darker; the median 

 i)and of cephalothora.x obscured in front of the dorsal groove; lateral 

 light stripes narrow and indistinct or obscured ; light markings of the 

 abtlomen indistinct. 



Tibia of palpus of about the same length a-s the patella but evidently 

 stouter, enlarge<l dista<l; sides of patella, seen from above, parallel; 

 tarsus very broa<^l, one and three-fourth times as broad as the tibia, 

 ovate, acutely pointe<l. Palpal organ very similar to that of gran- 

 landica, but the embolus is relatively longer ami there are differences 

 in the conductor, etc. (PI. XV, figs. 2 and 4.) 



Total length, 8 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 4 mm.; widtli, 

 3.2 mm. 



I>ength of 1(^ I, 10.4 mm.; tib. + pat., 3.() nun.; met., 2.1 nun. 



lx?ngth of leg II, 10.5 nun. 



I>engthof leg III, 10.1 nun. 



I>ength of leg IV, 12 mm. ; tib. -I- pat., 4.2 mm. ; met., 43 mm. 



Syn. . Li/com glacialtK TIidh-II. Ofvi-rs. jif. Vet. .\kad. F'orh., 29. 



1875. .' Lijcom lurcijera Thorell Proc. Bost. Soc. N. Hi.st.. 17, p. 499. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



. Lycosa fusculn Thorell, ibid., p. 501 . 



1877. Lycosa concintia Thorell, Bull. V . S. G. Surv. Terr., 3, p. 506 



1878. Lycosa glacialis Thorell, .\m. Xat., June. 



188.5. Pordosa bninnea Enicrton, Tran.s. Conn. .\cad. Sci., 6, p. 495, PI. 48, 



fi{»s. 4 to \b (variety). 

 1890. Lycom glacialis, concinna, fuscula and furcifcra, Marx, Proc. U. S. N. 



M., 12. 



. Pardosa brunnea, Marx,'t6jd., p. 565. 



1892. Pardosa brunnea, Bank.s, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Pliite., 4 1, p. 70. 



1894. Pardosa glacialis, Emerton, Trans. Conn. Acad. Sci., 9, p. 424, PI. 4, 

 figs. 2 to 2i. 



. Pardosa brunnea Emerton, ibid., p. 425, PI. 4, figs. 2g, 2h. 



. Pardosa concinria, Banks, J. X. V. Ent. Soc, 2, p. 51. 



1895. Pardosa concinna, Bank.s. Ann. X. Y. .Acad. Sci., S, p. 429. 



1896. ? Pardosa brunnea, Bank.s, J. X. V. Ent. Soc. 4, p. 192. 

 1902. Pardosa glacialis, or brunnea, Emerton, Common Sp. U. S. 



Type localUy. — Canada. 



Known localities. — Greenland!, Canada!, Colorado, Utah!, Idaho, 

 Oregon, Ma.s.sachusetts, Connecticut, Xcw Hampshire!. 



Var. brunnea. — Emerton now believes his brunnea to be a synonym of 

 modica (glacialis). All the specimens I have had the opportunity of ex- 

 amining from Xew England, however, present small differences both in 

 epigynum and in the male palpus from specimens of modica from Green- 

 land and Canada. But the species is subject to much variation ; ami it is 

 \mcertain whether the Xew J'Jngland forms can be maintained more 

 than tentatively as a distinct variety. (PI. XV, figs. 3 and 4.) 



This species is abundant in Greenland. Canada. Colorado and Utah. 



Pardosa labradorensis (Thorell), 1875. 



(Sul) Lycnsii, I'roc. Bost. Soc. Xat. Hist., 17, p. 502.) 



Female. — Cephalothorax brownish black with three rather narmw 

 longitudinal bands covchmI with whitish iiair. the middle one reaching 

 to the pars cephalica, truncate<l and geminaleil anteriorly, narrowing 

 backwariis, the lateral bands supramarginal, continuous, rather uneven 

 in the upper margin. ('hilicer<c dull yellowish or ferruginous brown. 

 Ijabiam blackish, with pale ape.x. EndiUs dark yellowish brown, their 

 palpi of the same color, the femoral joint with blackish longitudinal 

 streaks and spol.s. Sternum black. Lvgs of a dark and <lull yellowish 

 brown, tlie femora with dark streaks and spots above and on the 

 sides, limiting above two large oblong pale spots divide*! longitudin- 

 ally by a fine black line; the patelhe and tibire have each three blackish 

 longitudinal lines. Abdomen brownish, with traces of a short white 

 l>and at the anterior margin of the dorsum. Epigynum ferruginous. 

 Spinnrnts blackish. 



('ephnU)lhorax rather long and u;irn>u. with the >itle>> of the pars 

 cephalica almrist perpemlicular. 

 14 




206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE A(\\DKMY OF [May, 



The anterior row of eyes but ver^- sli<?htly, scarcely i)crceptibly, 

 cun-ed forwards, its central eyes of the same size a.s (at least not greater 

 than) the laterals, and somewhat more distant from each otlier than 

 from the lateral eyes; eyes of the second series separateil by an interval 

 not much (about one-fourth) greater than their diameter. 



Chelicenr narrow, but slightly convex longitudinally; their length 

 is greater than the height of the face and the length of tiie patelUe. 

 Labium with slightly roundal apex. 



Seen fn»m the under side the anterior (ihirc show four paii-s of spines, 

 the third pair belonging to the sides of the joint. 



The epigynum forms no deep fovea, as in P. fuseula. er.gr., the 

 elevate<l area shows, when the hair is rubbe<l off, a system of short 

 furrows and impressions rather difficult to describe, and forming a 

 large oblong figure, rather narrow in its anterior half, then dilated 

 gradually with rounded sides, and tnmcate<l behind : the anterior part, 

 which is divided from the posterior by a large but not deep transveree 

 depression, shows two longitudinal parallel furrows, the anterior 

 apices of which are rounded : the narrow interval between these fur- 

 rows is pointed anteriorly, and has in the middle a very fine longitudinal 

 furrow ; the posterior broad part of the epigynum shows on each side 

 a deep, oblique, incurved. crcscent-forme<l fovea; the space between 

 the«e foveas is triangular, with the apex tlirected backward, and 

 divided by a deep middle longitudinal furrow. 



Total length, 6.5 nun. Length of cephalothorax, 3.25 mm.; width, 

 2.25 mm. 



Ix'ngth of leg I, 8.75 nun. 



I/ength of leg II, 8 nun. 



I>ength of leg IV, I'A nun. ; tib. + pat., 3.75 mm. 



Male. — A male thought to belong to this species differs by the 

 ceph/ihlhorax being of a purer black, with the lateral bamls less dis- 

 tinct. The legs, which have the same markings as in the feiuale, are 

 of a clearer yellowish-brown color than in that sex, but darker at the 

 base; the cnxat arc black above and l)lackish beneath, the thighs also 

 blackish on the under side towanls the ba<c; the tai-si are yellowish 

 brown scarcely black at the extreme apex (as in the female). The 

 palpi arc very dark yellowish bntwri (the tibial joint alni(>.«^t black) 

 with black lines, and the tarsal joint (piite black; the tibial joint is 

 thickly clothe<l with black hair; also the other joints are black-haired. 

 The (ilt'lnmen has a ver\' distinct narrow baud at base coverc<l with 

 whitish hair; venter blackish. 



The patella of the jxilpus is somewhat longer than broad, cylindrical ; 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 207 



tibia scarcely longer than the patella but broader, being slightly and 

 gradually dilated toward the apex; the tarsus is as long as the two 

 preceding joints together, almost pear-shai)ed. The genital bulb is very 

 high at the base on the under side, this elevated part being oblitjuely 

 truncated and emarginate on the outer side; it shows in front a large 

 fovea, from which issues a veiy short and coarse obtuse tooth directed 

 obliquely forward and outward, and bearing at its base a longer and 

 narrower pointetl black tooth directed outward antl curved backward 

 anfl downward: this latter tooth lies almost concealetl in the fovea; 

 in the middle of the outer margin of the bulb a strong, pointed, down- 

 wardly directed black tooth is visible; close to the anterior side of its 

 posterior elevated portion is a transverse spine-like costa (embolus); 

 the anterior lower part of the bulb shows on the outer side two pale 

 appendages or narrow lobes. 



Total length, 0.5 niiiL Length of cephalothorax, .3.25 mm.: width, 

 2.25 mm. 



Length of leg L -^.75 nun. 



I..ength of leg II. S.5 mm. 



Length of leg I\', n.75 mm. ; tib. + pat.. .S.25 muL 



(From Thorell.) 



Ilnhitnt. — Strawberry Harbor ( Q ) and S(piaro Island (c), Labrador. 



The female was ca[)ture<l July 28; the male also in July. "This 

 species greatly resembles P. fujicida; but it is smaller, with the sides of 

 the heatl more perpendicular, the interval between the two largest 

 eyes is smaller, and the form of the vulva is (juite different. P. 

 Inbra/lorensis is a Pardosa C. Koch, while fuscuhi (and furcif era) appear to 

 belong to Leimonia C Koch." (Thorell.) 



In general coloration, proportions and structure, and especially in 

 the structure of the c" palpus, this form is certainly very close to 

 modica, and it may prove not to be anything different. It is po.ssible 

 that the differences in the epigynum. which Thorell thinks considerable, 

 may be due to the type of lahrfulorcnsis being not entirely a<lult, the 

 epigynum of immature specimens of modica which I have seen seeming 

 largely to agree with the description of that of Idhrndnrem^is given as 

 abr)ve by Thorell. 



PardotA maokeniiaxiA (KeyserlinK). 1876. 



(Sub Lycnm, Verb. z. I». Goh. Wirn, 20, p. rrJI, I'l. 7. fi»r. '.)] 

 Fnnrttr. — ('rjthnlothorai with a light mnlian re<ldish-l)ro\vn i»and as 

 broa<l anteriorly as the eye area or nearly so, usually broken a little 

 way back of ita anterior end by a transverse dark stripe, liehind 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



which the band continues of a uniform width over the median groove 

 and then narrows down the posterior declivity, sometimes sending of! 

 a process from each side just in front of the posterior margin; sides of 

 cephalothorax black, with or without an indistinct short light colored 

 supramarginal stripe posteriorly, with sometimes one or two light 

 spots anteriorly; tliis marginal band when present conspicuous; eye 

 region entirely black; clypeus brown. Chelicerce bluish brown, a wide 

 black stripe crossing the face of each obliquely from the inner face out- 

 ward, leaving a paler tip and a paler portion above it. iMbivm and 

 endites brown, with the tips paler. Sternum black, an obscurely lighter 

 me<lian line in front, such as occurs in rnUnna. Coxce of legs beneath 

 light brown. Legs strongly marked with deep brown or black annula- 

 tions alternating with rings of yellow or light brown, the latter rings 

 much narrower on femora and tibia?, of the same width as the black 

 ones on the metatarsus; the tarsi clear yellow or light brown 

 or the anterior ones sometimes also obscurely annulate. Abdomen 

 above black, with a lanceolate mark of retl-brown at base antl a 

 series of transverse light marks behind, each of the latter being 

 composed of mostly four confluent black-centred spots of same color ; 

 the transverse marks frequently obscure; sides of abdomen black, 

 minutely spotted with brown, the spots large below; venter brown to 

 grav. Spinnerets brown. Epigynum brown, of same hue as venter 

 inconspicuous. 



Face but little lower than the length of the cheUcerae; sides straight 

 and vertical or nearh' so. 



First row of eyes much shorter than the second, procurved; anterior 

 me<^lian eyes their diameter or more apart, closer to lateral eyes which 

 are of equal size; anterior lateral eyes twice their tliameter from front 

 margins of clypeus, their diameter or a little more from eyes of second 

 row; anterior median eyes their diameter from eyes of second row; 

 eyes of second row about their diameter apart; quatlrangle of posterior 

 eyes rather more than one-fourth the length of the cephalothorax. 



Margins of furrow of cheliccra: armed as usual. lAibium of same 

 width as length or very nearly so (1 : 1 to 7.25 : 7); basal excavation 

 longer and shallower than iisual, but less than one-third the length of 

 labium; sides widely roundeil below, straight above, front t)r anterior 

 margin truncate or slightly indentetl at middle. 



All tarsi spinulosp beneath, the spinules arrange<l on all in two rows; 

 the lateral scopula? of anterior pairs ver}- sparse or scarcely evident. 



Deprcjwed area of epig}'num anteriorly very narrow; the posterior 

 area wifle, almost completely filled by the expandeil guide which 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209 



presents lateral plates along transverse arms in front and externally ; 

 the ends of amis extending into excavations in side walls. (PI. X\', 

 fig- 0.) 



Total length, 6.5 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 3 mm.; width, 

 2 mm. 



Length of leg I, 9.2 nmi.; tib. + pat.. 3.1 nnn. ; met., 2 mm. 



Length of leg II, 8.7 mm. 



Length of leg III, 8.6 mm. 



Length of leg l\', 12.2 mm. ; tib. + pat., 4 mm. ; met., 3.7 mm. 



Male. — Color of cephalothorax and abdomen as in female. -Mandibles 

 blackish with dusky browni.sh-yellow streaks. Labium and cndites 

 also blackish. The female joint of the palpi is brownish yellow with 

 black spots and streaks especially toward the base ; patella joint yellow- 

 ish brown, the tibiaj black on sides and pale brownish above, covereti 

 with black hair; tarsal joint black and black-haired, pale at aj)ex. 

 Legs browni.sh yellow, the thighs black beneath, except at apex, and 

 with distinct blackish rings above; the following joints less distinctly 

 ringe<l. (Thorell.) 



The tibial joint is a little broader and, at least when seen from the 

 siile, slightly longer than the patellar joint, gradually but very slightly 

 thickcncil toward the apex; the tarsal joint is fully as long as the two 

 preccxling joints together, about double a.s broad as the tibial joint, 

 nearly ovate, but strongly narrowing toward apex, ver\' convex. For 

 structure of bulb see PI. XV, figs. 6 and 7. 



Total length, 6 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 3 nun.; width, 2.5 

 mm. (nearly). 



Length of leg I, 10 mm. 



Length of leg II, 9.5 mm. 



Length of leg III, 9.5 mm. 



Lengtii of leg 1\', 14 nnn. ; tib. 4- pat., 3.5 mm. 



Syn.— 1S77. Lyrosci xtncala Tlionll, Hull. U. S. (J. S. of Ti-rr., 3, p. 508. 

 1894. Purdom dorxaliis Hiuiks, J. N. Y. Knt. 8oc., 2, p. 51. 

 1894. Pardosa uncula, Eriicrton, Trans. Conn. Acad. Sci., 9, p. 425, PI. 3, 

 figs. 8 to S/. 



Type locality. — .Mackenzie liiver. 



Known localities. — Colorado!, L'tali!. Idaho, Canada. 



PardoiB longiipinata TullKrcn, 1U<||. 



(Hih. till bv. Wt.-.Vkail. Hun.ll., Hand 27; Ufd. IV, .No. 1, p. 23.) 

 Female. — Cephalothorax dark brown, clothe<l with short atlpressetl 

 and long black upturned bristly hairs, with a white middle-band. 




210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



squarish in the cephalic part ami as broad as tiio area of eyes, on the 

 pars thoraica narrow: the eye area nearly black; at the margins 

 broad white bands; the margin black. Chelicerce clothed with long 

 bristly hairs. Euditcs and labium light yellow brown. Sternum light 

 brown with long light hairs. Lc(js pale brown with dark rings. Abdo- 

 men brown, clothed with black and white short hairs witiiout ilistinct 

 markings; the venter light grayish. 



Cephalothorax a little shorter than the length of tibia + patella of 

 fourth legs and the breadth shorter than the length of til)ia of the 

 fourth pair of legs. Front row of eyes distinctly procurved, the 

 central eyes largest and the interepace between the central eyes about 

 equal to their diameter and longer than the space between the lateral 

 eyes. The distance from the lateral eyes to the margin of the clypeus 

 and to the eyes in the middle row about thrice their tliameter. The 

 eyes of the middle row very large and the interspace between them 

 longer than their diameter. The interspace between the middle and 

 the posterior eyes broader than the diameter of the mitldle eyes. 

 Chelicerce a little longer than the face, very tapering at the apex anil 

 clothed with long bristly hairs, a little narrower than the femur of first 

 pair. Tibia of first pair of legs below witli 2, 2, 2 spines; these and 

 other spines very long. 



Total length. 4.2 nun. I.cngth of cephalothorax, 2.5 nun.; width, 

 1.8 mm. 



I>ength of leg 1, T.o mm. 



Length of leg I\', 10 nmi. 



(Description rearranged from the original.) 



Locality. — Florida. One single adult female frdiu Lake I.eonoiv in 

 ( )rang<* Comity. 



This tiny Pardoso is not known to me at first hand. It is certainly 

 a very unusual form, if it be true that the "distance from the lateral 

 eyes to the margifi of the clypeus and to the eyes in the middle row is 

 about tliric( their diameter." a statement much to be (|uestioned. 



(ienuN SCHIZOCOSA ('liuiiil>orliii. luul. 



(Cnnndian EntnniDlopist, Vol. XX.WI, p. 177.) 



Entire body (U-nsely dollied with |»iil)esceiiee; the ceplialotlioriix 

 with a light me<lian band ii-s wide anteriorly as the eye area and either 

 with or without Hubmarginal pah; bands. Spines of anterior tibia? 

 in number an<l arrangement like tlM»se of Pnrdom and Lycosa, in Ii'ngth 

 varying between those (»f the.s(» two genera. .Anterior row of eyes 

 con.'*ideral)ly .shorter than the .second, clearly procurved, more strongly 




1908.] XATIKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



than vl^:ual in Pordosa or Lycosa; anterior median eye.-^ larger t^ian the 

 lateral, of nearly same di.stance from each other as from the lateral 

 eyes ; clypeus narrow, the anterior lateral eyes at most their diameter 

 or but little more from the front maro^in of clypeus. the same distance 

 or coiu^iderably farther from the bye.<! of secontl row; eyes of second row 

 large, less than their diameter apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes 

 evidently wider behind than in front. Chelicera? as in Lycosa, the third 

 tooth of the inferior margin of the furrow usually re<luced. Labium 

 distinctly longer than broad, the basal notch one-third its total length. 

 Posterior spiimerets short, scarcely or not at all longer than the 

 anterior. Kpigynum with a distinct guide which is elevate and well 

 developetl anteriorly a.-^ in Lycosa; the transverse arms of guide double, 

 being divide<l from their e.xterior ends mesally to a varying distance; 

 lateral furrows not widening anteriorly. (See figs, of PI. XVI.) 

 Male palpus with a scopus exterior in position presenting 

 two proces.-;(^ as in Lycosa; exjjosed area of lunate plate small; 

 conductor conspicuously pnxiuced above, usually into a horn-like 

 elevation of var>'ing size; superior margin of inferior furrow present- 

 ing, more or less externally from its middle, a short and pointed, 

 basally wide, plate-like tenaculum which is curved downward distallv; 

 a second, shorter tenaculum farther externally and anteriorly; auricula 

 of lectus vt'ry long, extending forward along conductor and attaining 

 or nearly attaining front margin of alveolus; embolus distinctly and 

 more or less angularly elbowed at base of auricula. (See figs of 

 PI. XVI.) 



•"^yn.— 1S42. Lycosa. Hentz (:id. part, ocreala and venuntula) J liost S N 



H., IV, p. 22.S. 

 1875. Lijcom, Hentz (ad. part, cit.), Sp. of U. S., p. 21. 

 1870. L'jcom, Key.serling (ad. part, ocreala anil rufa), WtIi. z. G \Vi«Mi 



p. 010. ' 



l8So. /'arc/o«a, Emerton (ad. part. />i7i/iea/<i), Trans. Conn. Acad St-i \F d 

 491. ■ ' ' 



1892. Pardosa, Hanks (ad. part. <jrarilin), Proc. .Vcad. Xat. ."-ici. Phila. p. 70. 



1902. Lifcnsa, .MoiitKonH'iy (ad. part, ocreala pnlchra, relucenn anci veri- 

 simitis), Proc. .Xcad. .\at. S<-i. Pliila., p. .5:30. 



. Fanluxa. .Montgotiifry (a<l. part, .sulivaija). lor. ril. 



1904. Ltjcom, .Montgomery (ad. part.), Proc. Acad. .\at. .Si. I»liila., p. 276. 



Pars cephalica truncat<,*<I in front, its sides moderately rounder] and 

 sloping, the face rather high, its sides slanting in varying degrees, .somo- 

 times api)roaching the I'ardosa type more and sometimes the Lycosa. 

 The (juadrangle of posterior eyes in length averaging one-fourth the 

 length of the cephalothorax, being thus longer than in Lycosa. The hys 

 are l<»ng and mcxlerately stout, inclining to \te slender distallv; the 

 anteri(»r tan-^i sco|)ulate, at least lHt<>rally. the i)(tst(>ri(»r tarsi .setose 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



below ; the tibia and patella of the fourth letj:* taken together are always 

 considerably longer than the cephalotl>orax. The metlian light band 

 of the cephalothorax widens uniformly from behind forward to the 

 eyes; it is constricteci in front of doi*sal groove, but otherwise its 

 margins are nearly straight. The abdomen in all is marked above by 

 a broad light band which is nearly or fully as wide as the dorsum and 

 which extends over its entire length from base to spinnerets; this band 

 enclosing at base a lanceolate outline, and behind in some also a series of 

 transverse angular lines of varj'ing degrees of distinctness; sides of 

 al)domen dark in color, black at least across anterior lateral angles; 

 venter pale. 



Spiders of medium or small size. The males are but little different 

 in size from the females, but are sometimes characterized by having the 

 tibiae of the front pair of legs darkenal in color and densely clothetl 

 with long black hair which stands out in brush-like form. 



The cocoon is spherical, without any seam a* equator, and is white 

 in color. 



Key to Species. 



Females. 



1. Sternum yellow, with two dark lines or rows of dark spots con- 



verging posteriorly, bilineola (Emerton). 



Sternum dark, not marketl as in bilineaia, 2. 



2. Septal piece of guide very broad immediately in front of transverse 



arms, narrowing anteriorly where it is not sinuous or bent ; the 

 median piece between anterior and posterior divisions of arms 

 very narrow, nuich narrower than the septum in front of arms 

 (PI. XVI, fig. 1); sternum usually black except marginally, 



ocrcata (Ilentz). 



Septal piece of guide sinuous or bent near anterior end; median 



piece V>etween anterior and posterior divisions of arms wide, 



wider than septum in front of transverse arms (PI. X\'I, fig. 4); 



sternum usually reddisli biown. ... . sultatrix (Hentz). 



Mahs. 



1. First tibia; clothed with dense black hair standing out in brush- 



like form, 2. 



First tibia; not so clothed snitatn'x (llentz). 



2. Legs yellow, without dark atmuli or markings, bilincnta (iMuerton). 

 Ix;gK annulate with dark, ocreala (Hentz). 



Bcbizocota ocreatm (Henti). 1844. 



(Sill). Lycusa, J. IJoat. Soc. Nat. Hisi., I\ , p. .Wl. I'l. XVIII, fin. 5.) 

 Female. — Sides of the ccpfudolhontjc brownish black; median band 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 213 



reddish yellow, anteriorlr passing fonvard broadly between eyes of third 

 row and nearly reaching second, more or less divided at front end by a 

 black nie<lian line or pointed process; eyes surrounded with black; on 

 each side considerably above margin a narrow, wavy light line which does 

 not extend forward upon the pars cephalica, this line often obscure; 

 clypojis reddish yellow, crossal beneath each anterior lateral eye by a 

 black mark or spot which is often confluent with its fellow across the 

 middle, thus leaving the clypeus pale only laterally; light bands of 

 cephalothorax in life dothetl densely with white or light gray pubescence. 

 Chdiccnc reddish brown, often dusky, except at distal ends, and marke<l 

 by black lines. Enditcs brown, the labium darker, usually blackish except 

 at tip. Sternum usually black or nearly so, paler along bordei^s, especially 

 caudo-laterally ; sometimes paler re<idish brown. Coxcc of legs beneath 

 light brown. Legs reddish brown, paler distally, all joints except the 

 tarsi with dark annulations, the annulations of the femora l)roader and 

 deeper, commonly more or less confluent, especially the anterior pairs, 

 the annulations of the other joints often indistinct. Sides of abdomen 

 above dark, a black band pa.'^sing from the front face backward across 

 each antero-lateral angle and breaking up behind into numerous 

 streaks and spots; the dorsum covered for entire length by a broad 

 light brown band of often re<ldish tinge, the band usually constricted 

 in front of middle; within the light band at base a lanceolate outline 

 which bifurcates at its apex and is followed behind by a series of chevron- 

 lines; lower part of sides of abdomen light brown, marked with small 

 black spots; the venter light brown, either immaculate or with a 

 me<lian, and at each side a lateral, row of dark spots behind the furrow 

 of the lung slit.**. Epujifnnm and spinnerets brown. Face mcxler- 

 ately high, two-thirds as high as the length of the chelicerai, its sides 

 UKKleratcly steep. First row of eyes considerably shorter than the 

 second, distinctly procurve<l, the median three-fourths their diameter 

 apart, nearly the same distance from the three-fourths as large lateral 

 eyes; anterior lateral eyes their diameter, or slightly more, from front 

 margin of clypeus, ver\' little farther frf)m eyes of second row, eyes of 

 second row not fully their diameter apart; (pwulrangle of pasterior 

 eyes about one-fourth the length of the ce[)halothorax. ('helieera: 

 iXTimA as usual, hihium longer than wide, the ba'^al notch very long, 

 more tlian one-third the total length of labium; sides above straight 

 and strongly converging, the front margin straight, not at all curveil. 

 L<(jH long, the distal joints rather slender; tibia + patella of first legs 

 of same length as the cephalothorax; anterior tibiip armc<l beneath as 

 usual, the first two pairs of s{)ines long, nearly as in I'nrdosa, the firvt 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF THK ACADKMY OV [M^y, 



overlapping the second; anterior tai-si with scopuhv at sides; a nunlian 

 ventral setose band, the posterior tarei not at all scopulate being 

 simply setose. 



Septal part of guide of cpigynum veiy broad, ocevipying much of 

 epigynal tlepression. narrowest at anterior end ; the transverse arms 

 deeply divided, the median piece very narrow. (PI. XVI, fig. 1.) 



Total length of small female, 7.4 nmi. Length of cephalothorax, 

 4.3 mm.; greatest width, 3.2 mm. 



Length of leg I, n.3 mm. ;tib. + pat., 4.3 mm. ; met., 2.1 mm. 



Length of leg H, 10.7 mm. 



Length of leg IIL 10.3 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 15 mm. ; tib. + pat., 4.6 nmi. . met.. 4.4 tr.m. 



Male. — Coloration in general as in female. The tibite of first legs ver)'- 

 densely clothetl for entire length with long black hairs which stand 

 out straight from joint; often of a greenish tinge. Legs longer than in 

 female; tibia + patella of fii-st legs longer than cephalothorax; spine 

 of anterior tibia shorter than in female. 



Tibia of palpus fully as wide as long, sides convex, widest at middle, 

 much wider than the patella which is little shorter and widens from 

 base distally, its sides straight; tai-sus wider than the tibia, of same 

 length as tibia and patella taken together. Lunate area very small, 

 basal in position, its convexity external; horn of conductor very long, 

 extending much beyond front margin of alveolus, bent at an angle 

 below its middle; principal tenaculum situatetl at middle, unequally 

 bidentate; lesser tenaculum bent upwanl at distal end, situated 

 below antero-exterior angle; auricle gradually attcmiated apically. 

 (PI. XVI, fig. 5.) 



Length of large specimen, <S.G mm. Length of cephalothorax, 4.G 

 mm.; width, 3.9 nmi. 



Length of leg I, 14.2 mill. ; tib. + pat. ,5 mm.; met., 3.3 mm. 



Length of leg II, 13.3 mm. 



Length of leg III, 13.1 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 1.8 nun.; tib. + pat.. 5.5 mm.; met., 5.3 mm. 



8yn.— 1875. Lycosa ocreala Hcntz, Spid. of U. S., p. :«. PI . 1, fiK. f). 



1876. Lyrnsfi orrenin, Kovscrlinp, Vfrli. z. h. (Jcs. Wi<Mi, \'ol. .X.W'I, p. 611, 



Tab. V'll, fiK. .') (riiulc).' 



. LyroMii ruja KeysorUng, ibid., p. (il.T Tal). \'II, fij;. J (iViiialc). 



ISS.**. I.t/roHU ocreolo, F'^niorton, Trann. ( <»im. .Acacl. Sci., \'\, p. I'.H, I'l. 



XLVIII, fiK'*. (i, (Vi, (•»/>. 

 18W). LyroHii orrmtn Hcntz, Marx, I'loc. P. S. N. M.. \ II, p ri(V2. 



. Lf/roMd rufa Ki'vsfTliriK, .Mar.x, iliid., p. WA. 



. Lycnnn ocTealn,'>U}XW, Pro*-. .\ni<l. .\at . Sci. Pliil:i., \'(il. 12, p. A'il. 



1892. I.yro'ni orrettln, lianks, up. rit., VmI. M, p. (Wi. 



Lyro.Hd o'Trfitii, Marx, Pmc. lOiit. S<>c. \N . II p. HM). 




1908.] XATIHAL SflKNCKS OF PHILADELPHIA. 215 



. Lyrosa ocreala, Fox, ibid., p. 269. 



1893. Li/cona ocreata, Banks, J. X. Y. Ent. Soc, I, p. 12.5. 



1896. Lijcosa orreata, Bank.s, op. cit., IV, p. 192. 



1898. LijLOsa ocreata, Simon, Hist. Xat. Araipn., II. p. .3.30. 



1900. Li/co.m ocreata, Bank.s, Pror. Aoa<l. Nat. Sci. Pliila., p. o3S. 



1902. Lijcosa ocreata, Enierton, Conunon Sp. of l'. S. 



. Pnrdosa .so/i'ioya Montgfjmcrv, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila.. p. .57 t, 



PI. XXX, fig. 39. 



. L>/rosa storiei Montpomcry, ihid., p. 546, PI. XXIX, figs. 9 and 10. 



1904. Schizocosa orreata, Chamberlin, Can. Ent., XXXVI, p. 176. 

 . Lycosa ocreata, Montgomen', Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., p. 288. 



Type locality. — North Carolina. 



Known localities. — North CaroHna!. Virginia, Di-strict of Cohinibia!, 

 Alabama. Louisiana, (Jhio, lllinoi.'^, Kaiisa.-^!. Connecticut. New York!. 



Hentz.in speaking of the occurnMiccof this species in North Carolina, 

 says that it "is not rare in in(>a<lo\vs near water." It is found in 

 similar locations in New "^'ork State. Kmerton states that in New 

 Haven, C<>nn., it is "conunon in open woods among dead leaves. 

 Adult about June 1." 



Schizocosa saltatrix (Hcntz). 1844. 



l.Sub L'jcusa, J. Bost. Soc. .Vat. Hi.'it., l\ , p. 3s7, PI. X\II, fig. 7.) 

 Females. — Sides of cephalothorax deej) brown, in life densely dotiied 

 with black intermixed with brown pubescence, a wide me<lian band of 

 usual form which is of reddish tinge anteriorly, extending forward 

 between eyes of third row and there geminated In' a fine dark line 

 which extends back over pars cephalica towards dorsal groove; a supra- 

 marginal light line on each side which sometimes attains and some- 

 times does not attain the cly|)eus in front, the border below these 

 lateral stripes more or less broken by transverse light lines ; me<lian and 

 lateral light stripes densely dotluMJ with white iiitermixe<l with yellow- 

 ish pubescence. ChclicercB dark brown ciotheil with short yellowish 

 gray pubescence, which is not den.se, and longer black bristles; the 

 fringe of the superior margin of the furrow grayish. Kndites yell(»wish 

 brown, lighter at tips. iMbium brown, darker than enditc^. Sternum 

 beneath brown or reddish brown, the former often showing a lighter 

 me«lian line or stripe, clothed in life with gray or whitish intermi.xed 

 with bla<-k pubescence. Cokv light brown to yellow, always paler than 

 the sternum. Le(jn yellow to light re<ldish-brown, with numerous nar- 

 row though often indistinct dark rings (occasionally (juito alwent), 

 which become fewer and often wider distally, the amiuli of femora not 

 so heavy and not confluent as in ocreata. Nearly entire dorsum of 

 alMlomen pale brown, often of a pale re<|(lish in life, grayish from the 

 pubescence which is light brown intermixtnl with spot.s of gray, line 




216 PROCEEDINGS OF THK ACADEMY OF [May, 



at base a dark lanceolate outline, forked at apex and followed by a 

 series of ehevroH-lines as in ocreata; these in life broadened behind by 

 lines of white hair, a black spot over each anterior lateral angle extend- 

 ing a short distance condad, and usually a triangular black spot more 

 or less constricting the median band towards the middle, the sides 

 elsewhere with many dark spots, in life streaked and spotteil with 

 patches of white pubescence; venter pale brown to greenish yellow, 

 in life densely clothed with white pubescence, the tegument often 

 markixl along each side with a row of small black dotsciu'ved convexl}- 

 out\\ard and converging posteriorly, a double me<lian dark stripe 

 sometimes present behind epig}'num. Epigynum and spinnerets light 

 brown. 



Face moderate in height, less than two-thirds as high as the length of 

 the chelicera?, the sides moderately rounded and standing outward 

 below, more so than in ocreata. 



Anterior row of eyes shorter than second by twice the diameter of a 

 lateral eye, well procurved. Anterior lateral eyes their diameter from 

 front margin of clypeus, slightly farther from eyes of second row less 

 than their diameter apart; cephalothorax 4.5 times longer than quad- 

 rangle of posterior eyes. 



Chelicercc armed as usual, the middle tooth of inferior margin longest, 

 the third considerably reduced. Labium longer than broad (not quite 

 8.7) basal notch one-third the length of labium; sitles of labium below 

 but slightly convex, subparallel, above straight or wearly so, distinctly 

 and coasiderably converging; anterior margin UKMlerately wide, con- 

 curved at middle; gently convexly roundetl at sides. 



Legs long and rather stout; the metataivi of the fourth legs moder- 

 ately slender; two first pair of spines of anterior tibi;e of moderate 

 length, rather shorter than in ocreata. Anterior tarsi an<l also except 

 basally being divideil by a wide me<lian setose band. 



Septal piece of guide of epigynum of but moderate width, a little or 

 sometimes considerably wider anteriorly than posteriorly, the transverse 

 arms divide<l nf)nnally but little more than half way to their mesal 

 ends, the incisions connected by a furrow; posterior divisions of trans- 

 veree arms depressed, on each side with tlistal end bent sharply forward. 

 (PI. XVI, fig. 4.) 



Total length. 9 mm, I.ength of cephalf)thorax, 4.7 nun.; width, 

 3.8 mm. 



Ix!ngth of leg 1, 12. 5 nun. ; tib. + pat., 4.5 nnn. ; met., 2.3 nun. 



I>cngth of leg II, 11. 7 nun. 



I>ength of leg 1 1 1 , 11 .5 nun. 




lOOS.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 217 



Length of leg IV. 15. S mm. ; tib. + pat., 5 mm. ; met.. 4.5 mm. 



Male. — Colore<l like female, the anterior legs not specially modified, 

 chelicenc clothed with yellow and greenish pubescence. Legs con- 

 siderably longer than in female, tibia* 4- patella of first pair clearly 

 l(jnger than the cei)halothorax.' 



Tibirc of palpus a little longer and much thicker than the patella, 

 nearly as wide as tarsus, sides more straight than in ocrcata; tarsus as 

 long as two precetling joints together. E.\posetl part of lunate area 

 very small, situated at base and with convexity external; horn of 

 conductor broad at bivse, conical; principal tenaculum external from 

 middle, the lesser tenaculum at antero-exterior angle of conductor, 

 small. l)ent a little downward apically; auricle of lectal fold bluntly 

 and al)ruptly rounde<l apically. For other features see PI. XVI, fig. 2. 



Total length, S.K mm. Length of cephaU)tli()rax. 4.7 mm.: width, 

 3.9 mm. 



Ix^ngth of leg I. 1() mm. ; tib. + pat., 5.4 mm. ; met., 3.5 mm. 



Length of leg IL 13.7 mm. 



liCngth of leg III, 13.4 nun. 



I.«ngth of leg I\'. 10 mm. ; tib. + pat., 5.8 mm. ; met., 5.8 mm. 



Svn.— 1,S44. Lijco.sn vetiunhda Hcntz, J. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., IV, p. .392, PI. 



■ XVIII, (iKs. Hand 7. 

 1875. Li/com sallatrix Ilontz, Sp. of U. S. (BurRes-s Ed.), p. 28, PI. 3, fig. 7. 



. Lycosa venuslula Hentz, Sp. of U. S., p. .33, PI. 4, fip-s. t>, 7. 



1892. Li/coxa humili.s Banks, Proc. .Vcad. .Vat. Spi. Phila., Vol. 44, p. 0.5, 



PI. III. fip. 30. 

 . Pardosn gracilis Bunk.s, Proc. .\rad. N'ut. Scj. Pliila., \'ol. 44, p. 70, 



I'l. 1, Rr. .5<). 

 1!)02. Lifrosn relitcens Montgomery, Pror. .\cad. N'at. Soi. Pliila., p. 512, 



PI.29 figs. .5,0. 



. Lifcosa rharnnoides Montgomery, Pror. Ara<l. N'at. Sri. Phila., p. .54 1. 



. Lijronn veristmilis Montgomery, ibid., p. .548. PI. 29, figs. 11, 12. 



1903. Li/roM chiranoidc.1 .Montgomery, Proc. Acatl. Nat. Sci. Pliila., p. 046, 



PI. X.XI.X, fig. 7. 



. Lt/rosa verisimilis Nfontgomory, ibid., p. 047. 



19()4. Schizocoufi venii.'<lultt (Ilt'nt/). CliumlxTlin, Can. Ent.. .X.X.W'I, p. 17<). 



. Lyroxn chtirnrwlde.i .Montgomery, Pror. .\ca<l. .\at. Sci. Pliila., p. 280. 



. LycoHd relureiui .Montgomery, Proc. .\cad. .Nat. Sci. Pliila., p. 292. 



Tiipe locality . — Alabama. 



Knnirti toailUics. — Alabama, North Carolina!. Tloorgia!, Louisiana!. 

 .Mi.s.si.<.si|)j)i!, Texas!, District of Columbia!, I'eniLsylvania, Kan.sas!, 

 .New York!. 



Ilentz states tliat males of this species were conunon in . Alabama in 

 .\pril, but that he did not find females. So also, it may be notoil, all 

 but a few of the specimens of rather extensive collections of this species, 

 made at several plac(>s in the South in the early spring of 1<)()3, which I 

 have examine*] are males. The marking of the venter of the ali-Iumin 




218 PROCKEDIXGS OF THK ACADKMY OF [May. 



figured by Hentz is strongly dovclopcHl in sonio individuals, ohscme or 

 absent in othei"s. In size and general coloration this sprcios is much 

 like ocrecUa, except as to the first legs of tlu^ males; and it has also 

 approxiniateh' the same geographical range. 



Schizocosa bilineata (Hmerton). 1885. 



iSub Pardosa, Trans. Conn. Acad. Sci., VI, p. 49i\ PI. 40, Wgs. 3 to 3I>.) 



Fenialc. — .Sides of ceplialothornx dark reddish brown clothed with 

 deep brown pubescence. A wide metlian yellow stripe of the usual 

 form, darker, more reddish, in front of dorsal groove, extending be- 

 tween eyes of third row as usual ; not geminated or only so for very little 

 distance at front, usually a darker reddish line extending backwaid 

 from inner side of each eye of third row, the two uniting in front of 

 median groove: the band clothe<l in gray and light brown puliescence 

 which is darker anteriorly; a narrow supramarginal stripe each side 

 reaching to clypeus in front, the dark band below this stripe 

 often luore or less broken into spots by light cross-lines; some 

 light radiating cross-lines from median stripe; eyes siurounde<l with 

 black, the black extending across clypeus below each anterior 

 lateral eye. Chelicei'w brown, a gray-brown pu))escence antl longer 

 black bristles. Endites yellow or light biown. Lahiinu darker, brown 

 to blackish. Sternum light brown or yellow, a row of dark sj^ots 

 each sitle of the middle, the twf) converging and meeting ]iosteriorly, 

 the margins also sometimes darker, clothed with grayish pubescence. 

 Coxiv of legs yellow. Legs yellow, somewhat darkened distally, 

 entirely without dark aniuili or other markings. Abdomen above 

 light brown, enclosing at base a dark lanceolate outline ending at 

 middle, and "with behind on each side a row of several black spots, 

 which are connecte<l in })aii"s by narrow and often indistinct dark 

 traasverse lines; the dorsum densely clothed with light brown or gray- 

 brown pul)escence; a deep brf)wn or black spot over each anterior 

 lateral angle, the sides elsewhere also dark from tlie many dark spots 

 which are often uunr or le.ss arrange<| in rows, coxcrcd with brown 

 puliescence, intermi.\e<| with gray in s{)ots and streaks; vciitn- yellow, 

 covere<l with gray pubescence, with normally four dark longitudinal 

 lines, all converging fnmi furrow of lung slits toward the spinnerets. 

 Sjtinnereiff yellowish or pale blow n. Epitij/tnnn pale brttwii with darker 

 margins. 



Face nuKlcrately high, a little more than two-thirds us high as the 

 length of the chelicj-ra'; sides scarcely coriNcx, very steep, much as in 

 I'ardoHd. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



First row of eyes much shorter than the second, considerably pro- 

 curved; anterior median eyes hardly their radius apart, about same 

 distance from the lateral or but slif^htly farther; anterior lateral eyes 

 as large as me<lian or very nearly so, rather le.ss than their diameter 

 from front margin of clypeus, a. little more than their diameter from 

 eyes of second row; eyes of second row not their diameter apart, (juad- 

 rangle of posterior eyes one-fourth as long as the cephalothorax ; 

 pasterior eyes seen from above close to lateral margin of pars cephalica 

 as in Pdrdnaa. 



Ltibium longer than wide in ratio of 4.6 :4: basal notch one-third as 

 long as labium; sides rounded below, straight and mmlerately con- 

 verging al)ove; anterior margin truncate, not at all curved. Lriffi of 

 mfwierate length, short, not very slender distally ; metatarsus of fourth 

 legs as long as cephalothorax; tibia -I- patella of first leg shorter than 

 cephalothorax; spines of anterior tibiie moderately long and slender, 

 the first pair a little overlapping the second ; anterior tarsi with well 

 developed scopuhe which are scarcely or but imperfectlv divided, the 

 pf)sterior tarsi not at all scopulate, simply setose. 



Septal piece of guide of epufffnum broad, narrowest adjacent to 

 transverse aruLS, distinctly widening anteriorly; the anterior branch of 

 transverse arms of each side conspicuously enlarged distally, making 

 the total width of the transverse arms conspicuously le.ss adjacent 

 to septum than extad. (PI. XVI, fig. 3.) 



Total length, 7.2 nun. Length of cephalothorax, 3.3 nun.; width 

 2.4 nuTj. 



liength of leg 1. S.O nim. ; tib. -f pat., 3 mm. ; met., 1.7 iiiin. 



Length of leg 11, S.2 mm. 



Length of leg III, <S.2 nun. 



Ix>ngth of leg IV, 1 l.fi mm.; tib. + pat., 3 mm. ; met., 1.7 nun. 



Male. — (leneral coloration like? that of female; tibia- of first legs 

 densely clothe<l for entire length with a brush of long black hair jt*< in 

 ocreata. Anterior lateral eyes but about half their diameter from front 

 margin of clypeus, smaller than me<lian; eyes of second row scarcely 

 more than three-fourths their diameter ai)art. 



Tibia of jmlpuA longer and broader than the patella, of nearly same 

 brea<lth from ba^^e to aj)ex; tibia + patella a little longer than tai-sus; 

 the latter clearly wider than the tibia (3.25 : 2.5) ; the alveolus relatively 

 large, the sides low and the bulb protruding; conductor high and 

 r()unde<l above at the exterior end, but nodistinct liorn-shape«l process; 

 prineipal t<>narulum rather stnall, bluntly rounde<l apically; auricle 

 of lectus very long, attaining or extending beyond front margin of 

 a'veolus. 




22() PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Total length, 5.3 mm. Length of cephalothorax. 3 mm.; width, 

 2.'i mm. 



Length of leg I, 8.7 mm. : til). + pat., 3.2 mm. ; met., 2 mm. 



liCngth of leg II, 7.8 mm. 



Length of leg III, 



Length of leg IV, 10. G; tib. + pat., 3.4 mm.; met., 3.2 mm. 



Syn. — 1890. Lycosa ocreata Stone, but yiec Hentz, Proc. Arad. Nat. Sci. 



■ Phila.. Vol. 42. p. 427. 

 1892. Pardom bilineato, Marx, Proc. Ent. Soo. W., Vol. 2, p. 161 

 1895. Pardosa bilineata. Banks. J. X. Y. Ent. Soc, Vol. 3, p. 91 . 

 1902. Li/cofa ocreata pulchra Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 



p. 540, PI. 29, figs. .3. 4. 

 1904. Schizocosn bilineata (Hentz), Chaml)erlin, XXXVI, p. 176. 

 . Lycosa bilineata Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 290. 



Type locality. — Connecticut. 



Known localities. — Connecticut, Xew York!, Xew Jei"sey, Pennsyl- 

 vania, District of Columbia!, Illinois, Kansas!. 



The Genu^ LYCOSA Latreille. 1804. 

 (Xouv. Diet. Hist. Nat., 24, p. 135.) 



Entire body densely clothed with pubescence. Anterior til)ia) 

 armed beneath with three pairs of spines which are shorter than the 

 diameter of the joint or at most but little longer, the third pair 

 apical in position and smaller (PI. IX, fig. 8). Anterior eyes in a row 

 shorter than, of same length as or longer than the second, either pro- 

 curve<l or straight, or rarely a little recurved, eyes equidistant or with 

 the median a little farther from each other than from the lateral, the 

 lateral usually a little smaller than the median; anterior lateral eyes 

 mostly their diameter or but little more from front margin of clypeus, 

 onh' rarely once and a half their diameter and never more, the same 

 distance or farther from eyes of second row; eyes of second row large, 

 less than their diameter apart : f|ua<lrangle of posterior eyes trapeziform, 

 evidently wider behind than in front. Ij<i})ium longer than wi<le, or at 

 least never wider than long ; either attenuated anteriorly or, less com- 

 monly, with sides subparallel; basal excavation long, in most fully 

 one-third or more the total length (PI. IX. figs. 7 and 9). Spin- 

 neretn short, the posterior ones not longer than the anterior, their 

 apieal segment indistinct. Epigynum in typical forms with a strongly 

 develoiM.'<l guide, oi which the septal piece is distinct and well forMie<l 

 anteriorly, its transverse arms not dividcnl ; openings of the spermatheca 

 protectf^l. Iea<ling into narroweil chaiuiels. the lateral furrows from 

 these widening anteriorly, and at the front usually conspicuously wider 




1908.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221 



than behind (see, e.g., fig5?. of PI. XVII) ; in some the foveolae subcircular, 

 not thus elongate and w idening conspicuously anteriorly (group Tro- 

 chosa). Bulb of male palpus bearing at front of basal lobe a strongly 

 chitinized special fold or scopus which is essentially exterior in position ; 

 Scopus presenting two processes; viewed directly from below the inner 

 of these appears usually as a more or less retroi-se, barb-like ])rocess, 

 but in some (grouj) Trochosa) longer and strongly salient, the basal 

 portion mostly more or less concealed b}' a basal fold which leaves 

 only the apical, exterior portion visible in ventral aspect ; median rim 

 of conductor bearing one, or sometimes two, mostly slender and sim])lo 

 tenacula; a lectal fold well developed, an auricle of varying size, but 

 always smaller than in Schizocoso. See, e.g., figs, of PI. X\'II. 



1S32. Lycom Heiitz (ad. part, max.), Sill. J. Sci. and .\rt.-i. 21, ji. lOG. 



1842. Lycom Hontz (ad. part, max.), J. Host. Soc. N. H., 4, p. 22S. 



184S. Lycom (ad. part.), Arctosa and Trochom, V. Kocli, Die .\racliniden. 



14, pp. 94-9H. 

 1809-70. Tarentula and Trochosa Thorell, On Europoan SpidtTs; p. 192. 



1875. Lycosa Hcntz (ad. part, max.), Sp. V. S.. pp. 1 1 an(r24. 



1876. Lycosa .'^imon (ad. part, max.), .Vrcalin. Kr.. 8, p. 2.33. 



. Tarentulfi and Trochosa Kevsfrlinp, \'t'rli. z. I). Ges. Wien. p. OK). 



1877. Tarentula Tlion-lj. Hull. I". 8. G. S. Terr., 3, p. .520. 

 1885. Lycom Euierton, Tran.*;. Conn. .\ead. Sei., 0, p. 4S2. 



1890. Tarentula, Trochosa and ad. part. Lycosa Marx, Proc. U. S. X. M., 12. 



1898. Lycosa Simon (ad. part, max.). Hist. Nat. .\raijni., 2. 



1902. Lycosa (ad. jjart. max.), Proc. .Acad. Nat. Sei. Pliila., p. .')3f». 



1903. lAfCosa Comstoek, Cla.s.sif. of .\. A. Spiders. 



1904. Lycosa Chamherlin, Can. Entomologist, \'o|. XXXVI. p. 170. 



. Lycosa (ad. part.), .Montgomery, Proc. .\ca(l. .Nat. Sei. Phiia., p. 270. 



. Trochosa, Montgomery (ad. part), ilnd., p. ;i(M). 



Pars cephalica m(xlerately elevate<l ; in front triuicate to more or 

 less obtuse; its lateral margins either a little convorgin^ anteriorly or 

 parallel; sides roimded outward below; face UKHJeratcly hijih. trap<'zi- 

 form, evidently widening downward; in profile either vertical or 

 sloping fo^^vard from top to the base of chelicera' (PI. IX. fig. o). 

 (Quadrangle of posterior eyes in most but one-fifth or less the length 

 of the cephalothorax. Seen from above, the eyes of second and third 

 rows are imich more than their tliameter from lateral margins of 

 the i)ars cei)halica (PI. IX, fig. 2). C/iclianc long and rolnisl, in 

 length at least one and one-half times the height of .the face; upper 

 margin with three teeth of the usual pro|)ortif)ns, or the first one 

 rarely absent; lower margin with three stout teeth which are subequal, 

 or with the third sometimes reduce<l, or else with tw© stout e<iual teeth 

 (i»l. I.\, figs. 1 and 3). 



Lnjs robust, the distal joints usually not slemler a^ in J'drdosa. 

 Tarsi ami tisiially al.«<o metatarsi of anterior legs .«<copulate and with the 

 15 




222 r PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



scopuliT uiulivitle*! (PI. IX, fis;. 4), the posterior tai-si scopulate at 

 sides, being divideil along the median ventral face by a setose or 

 setose and spinulose band (PI. IX. fig. 6). Metatai-sus of fourth legs 

 shorter than til)ia + j^atella of same pair in most cases, rarely the 

 metatai-sus tlie longer more especially in males. Tibia + patella of 

 last legs sometimes a little longer than anrl sometimes of same length 

 as or. as in the great majority of cases. shorter than the cephalothorax. 



Spidei-s of large or medium size, including the largest forms of the 

 family. There is much variation in coloration, although in the several 

 groups of species the same system or pattern of markings is more or less 

 evident. Most of the larger X^orth American species show a decided 

 tendenc}' to have the ventral surface of the body black in whole or in 

 considerable part, such seeming indeed to be the tendency in large 

 LycoskhT ever^'where. The body of the males is in most cases smaller 

 than that of the females, with the legs proportionately much longer 

 and with their several joints of proportionately different lengths. 



Lycosas make a white spherical cocoon which only exceptionally 

 shows a seam about its equator, the tissue being normally smooth and 

 homogeneous. The smaller species carry the cocoons about as do the 

 Pardosas. which they resemble also in building no retreats. The larger 

 species, however, during the cocooning season are sedentary. Prac- 

 tically all of these larger species make nests or burrows of some kind, 

 these varying greatly in form and depth. Some of the burrows are 

 deep and have the openings surrounded by a rampart or turret 

 forme<l of sticks and leaves or (if l)its of dirt cemented together with 

 silk (<'.f/.. falifera, arcnicola, carol inensis). Other species excavate only 

 shallower pits or nests beneath stones or logs, and surround these 

 excavations with a low rampart of earth or sticks, etc., and which 

 they may occupy only during the cocooning season {e.g., Iielluo). 



The genus Lt/cosa as here coasidered is divisible into a number of 

 groups; but for the most part these ai"e found more or less clo.sely to 

 intergrade when a sufficient numlx'r of sjjecies are taken into considera- 

 tion. The most aberrant and distinct of these groups, so far as concerns 

 the American species, is that containing many of the forms referre<I 

 to Trochosa C. K. {avara Keys., (josiutd new, cimrca Fab., rubicunHa 

 Keys., etc.). The material rei)resenting this group that I have been 

 al)le to study (American forms only) has not been sufficiently extensive 

 and complete t(» enal)le me to deteriiiine fully the characteristics and 

 value of the group, and tlierefore the propriety or advantageousncss 

 of its separation generically. Tlie forms studied difTer from typical 

 Lycosas amouL' other features in having the epigyna as wide as or 




19()S.] NATURAL .SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 223 



wklerthan long with the guide more or less strongly archal at micklle, 

 and with the lateral depression, relatively wide and short, tending to 

 subcircular; the lateral ridges commonly low at middle (PI. XX, 

 fig. 2, avara; PI. XX, fig. 6, cinerea). In the male palpal organ the 

 proximal limb of scopiis is more strongly developetl, being more or 

 less elongate and bent out vertically as a conspicuously salient 

 process (PI. XX, fig. 1, avara). JSome but not all species in the group 

 have the stout spine, normally present al)ove at proximal end of the 

 tibia; of the third and fourth legs in Lycosa, replaced by a very elon- 

 gate, basally stout bristle clearly stouter at base than surrounding 

 hairs, spine-like, but distally gradually extending into a long fine awn. 

 Through some forms of this group a close approach is made to Allocosa, 

 which may ultimately have to l)e withdrawn into the present genus. 



Kev to Species of Lvcosa. 



1. \'enter of abdomen black in front of genital furrow and in a spot at 



base of spinnerets, elsewhere pale brown, . coloradensis Bks. 

 Not so 2. 



2. Lower margin of furrow of chelicera armed with but two teeth, . 3. 

 Lower margin of furrow armeil with tiiree teeth 4. 



3. Anterior lateral eyes their diameter from front margin of clypeus, 



kochii (Keys.). 



Anterior lateral eyes once and one-half their diameter from front 



margin of clypeus hcanii Km. 



4. \o spine at all above on tibiie of legs HI and 1\', 5. 



.'^j)ine at middle or both at mi<ldle and at proximal end on tibiae 



(.f legs III and 1\' 6. 



5. I)(ji"sum of alxlomen with a distinct me<lian dark l)and along its 



entire length ; light me<lian band on cephalothorax, arcnicoki Sc. 

 Dorsum of alxlomen without such a dark band; cephalothorax 



without distinct markings jtUijna Iltz. 



<>. Xo true stout spine at liasc ai)ove on til)ia' of legs III and IV, 

 rcplace<l by a basally stout, apically slender and j)ointed, 



elongate bristle 7. 



A true robust spine at base above on tibia^ of legs III and I\', 10. 



7. Tibia 4- patella of legs l\' less than 3 mm. long, floridiana (Bks). 



Tibia + patella of legs 1\' near 4 nun. long or longer 9. 



9. Kyes upon a black patch ; legs not marke<i with dark anmili, 



churia Kab. 

 Eyes not upon a black patch ; legs marked with dark anmili. 



rubicunda. 



10. (.Vphalothorax with a light me<lian longitudinal stripe which is very 



narrow or line-like anteriorly an<l which extonds fonvanl to or 



between eyes of second n»\v 11. 



Coplmlotlmrax either without n me<lian band or with a band 

 whieh i< as wide or nearlv as wide a«^ til.' tliini i'\c inu . 18. 




224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Mi^V,. 



11. Legs strongly l)aM<le«l with black, or if, aiinulations are indistinct, 



legs entirely black, 12. 



Legs yellow or light brown, not at all ajnuilate or with a few dark 

 • markings on femora, 13. 



12. Anterior row of eyes as wide as or a little wider than the second, 



aspcrsa H. 

 Anterior row of eyes shorter tiian the second, , . . ripariaH. 



13. Males, H. 



Females, 18. 



14. Cephalothorax near 10 mm. in length (leg IV not more than o.25 



times as long as cephalothorax), .... pcrmunda Chamh. 



Cephalothorax under 7.5 mm. in length (leg IV 3.7 or more 



times as long as cephalothorax), 15. 



15. Tibia + patella 1 longer than tibia + patella IV, . grancUs Bks. 

 Tibia + patella I shorter than tibia + patella l\, . hcUuo AV. 



It). Leg IV less than three times the length of cephalothorax, 



penmtnda Chamb. 

 Leg l\' more than three times the length of cephalothorax. . .17. 



17. Abdomen beneath and the sternum innnaculate pale yellow, 



clothed with yellow hair grandis Bks. 



Stermnn mostly l)lack or nearly so and clothed largely with black 

 hair; abdomen beneath mostly with numerous dark dots and 

 sometimes nearly black, ficlluo W. 



18. Doi-sum of abdomen marked along its entire length by a distinct 



median dark band, 19. 



Abdomen not so marked 20. 



19. Stermim yellow or light brown; dorsal dark band of abdomen, 



usually with margins Ijohiud dentate or else enclosing along each 

 side a series of small oblicjue light spots, . . . scululatd 11. 

 Sterntnn black; doi-sal band of al^domen with margins always 

 straigiit and not dentate or enclosing light spots behind, 



pundnlatd IL 



20. Cephalothorax entirely witho\it light bands (jr spots either at 



middle or along sides, 21. 



Cephalothorax with at \eSLsi a median lighter band or spot, . 22. 



21. Sternum and coxie of legs and usually entire venter of abdomen 



black : both ends of tibi;i' of legs l)cneath black, . rarolincnsis W. 



Sternum light to reddisji brown, not i)lack; venter of abdomen 



not black either in whole or in part (iitin(iriii. 



22. Tibia' of fourtli legs black at l)oth ends beneath, other tibia' and 



legs elsewhere tnunarktHl excepting faint brown cros-s-bai-s on 

 femora (sternum and venter of abdomen entirely black), 



apicala Hks. 

 Not so 23. 



23. Legs pale brown and mtircly without ilarker markings; venter 



beliiiul genital furrow black, rarely a jiaic central spot, hula IL 

 Legs similar, but patella' and often distal end of tibia* ))lack 

 beneath ; anterior femora above and posteriorly witii fine 

 htngitudinal dark lines, posterior femora with faint dark spots; 

 venter as for preceding, . h nin \nr. h(tltini(iri(niti (K.). 




lyOS.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILAULLPHIA, 225 



Xot as for lenta or its variety, 24. 



24. All tibiiP l)lack at both ends beneath and the femora black beneath 



at distal end : large, the cephalothorax 10 mm. or more in length, 



carolincnsis W. 

 Tibiie and femora not l)an(le<l tiuis at ends only beneath; cephalo- 

 thorax less than 10 mm. h»ng 25. 



25. Female.s 26. 



Males 34. 



26. Lateral depressed areas of epigyniun witle, siibcircular, not elongate 



in the usual way, 27. 



Epigynum not so, 28. 



27. (iuide bearing a short blunt median process posteriorly; ends of 



transvei-se arms not extending forwards freely to or beyond 

 middle of lateral depression or fovea (PI. XIX. fig. 2). 



a vara (Keys.). 

 No such siiort median process posteriorly on guide; ends of 

 transverse arms of guide extending forward uncovereil to beyond 

 middle of depressed fovea (PI. XIX, fig. 4), 



avara var. gosiuia new. 



28. Cluide of epigynuni inversely T-shaped, the transvei^se arms 



relatively slender 29. 



(iuide enlargcnl at posterior c\\(\, but not inversely T-shaped or 

 anchor-shaped, 33. 



29. Septum of guide strongly widening from l^ase of transverse arms 



to anterior end, wliere it extends entirely or nearly across the 



median depression, 30. 



Xot so 31. 



30. Confining walls of epigynum very wide anteriorly (I'l. XXI. fig, 3), 



pratensis Em. 

 Xot so. tiie epigynum nuich like that of liclliio (IM. .W'll, fig. 1), 



ftoridana Bks. 



31. Transverse piece of guide extending entirely across or almost 



entirely across ej)igynum behind, some longer than median 

 piece, scarcely confined by side ridges at ends (PI. XMII. fig. 4), 



froiulicola i'JU. 



Transverse piece of guide not so long, distinctly confine«l by ridges 



at ends \ . . . " . 32. 



32. Septum w4de8t at its anterior end ; lateral walls thick ; epigymnn as 



a whole rather wider than long inndrsla Keys. 



Xot so. septum widest toward middle part of its length, tran.s- 

 vei-se arms usually excavate<l at ends above; epigymim as a 

 whole roughly triangular, being much uarrowetl anteriorly (PI. 

 -Wll.fig. 3) (Tnitiai H. 



33. Mnlargeil eiul portion (»f guitle rcuighly triangular in shape with the 



aiMW behind (PI. .\IX, fig. 8) iiiclilis Km. 



Kx[)ande<l end of g\iide not so shape<l. \\i<lest behind, where it is 

 tnuicato (PI. .\.\I. fig. 7) ijulosa \\. 



34. .\nterior row of eyes shorter than the sec<»iid .35. 



Anterior row of eyes as long tf< or longer than the second. . 40. 




226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF \}^^y? 



35. Median pale band of cephalothorax ^^trongly widening anteriorly, 



passing each side of tlie eyes and reaching to the clypeus, the 



full width of whidi it embraces albohastato Em. 



Metlian pale band of cephaloth<trax not tlius in front wider than 

 and enclosing eye area 36. 



36. Embolus curving out ventrahvards antl forward, resting only its 



apical part obliquely across the auricle (PI. XXI, fig. 4). 



gulosa W. 

 Xot so, 37. 



37. Meiiian. pale stripe strongly bulging between third eye row and 



anterior end of doi^sal groove, being much wider than third eye 

 row: at front of furrow al^ruj^tly narrowed to the width of 

 third eye row, its sides then subparallel to posterior decliA-ity, 



jnctUis Em. 

 .Malian pale band of cephalothorax not so formed, ... 38. 



38. Doreum of abdomen with a median light band extending to spin- 



nerets behind, where it ends in a point, enclosing at base a dark 



lanceolate mark, or with the latter sometimes absent, crratica H. 



No such distinctly limite<l light band on doreum of abdomen, 39. 



39. Venter mostly black modesta (K.). 



X'enter brown to yellowish, ax'ara (K.). 



40. \'enter with a wide irregularly edgetl black l^and extending from 



epigynum to spinnerets and sometimes embracing entire width 



of alxlomen, jrondicola Em. 



Venter with no such broad black band, .... pratcnsis 1£.tc\. 



Lycosa hellno Walckenaer, 1837. 

 (Insect. Apt., I, p. 337.) 

 Female. — Cephnlnthorax deep brown, a narrow light colored median 

 pale stripe which anteriorly becomes line-like and extends forward 

 between the eyes, this metlian stripe in life covered with light brown 

 pubescence which continues as a median line between the eyes and to 

 the front margin of the clypeus; in most a short curved light line 

 behind each eye of third row and close to the me<lian line; a wider 

 similarly colored and clothed light suprainarginal strij)e on each side, 

 thi.s stripe usually not distinguishable in front of third eye row; eyes 

 enclf)se<l in black; dark parts of cephalothorax clothed with brown and 

 black hair intermixe<l, the black m(»st abiuidant over, and giving its 

 deeper coh)r to, the upper parts of the sides along the bordeiv of the 

 median pale Htripe and the area al)r)ut the (yes. Chelicerw black or 

 browfiisli black, the lateral condyles re^l at base and black below; 

 (•lothe<l with a short yellowish j)ul)escence with some longer, gray- 

 black bristles intermixed, the latter l)eing more numerous distally and 

 forming the dense fringe along the superior margin of the furrow, 

 IjtiliniTii and enfhlrs black, brown at distal ends. Stfrninn and eoxfc 




1908.] NATURAL SCIKXCKS (JF PHILADELPHIA. 227 



of legs beneath black or biowni.sh black, subdensely clothctl with 

 blackish hair, the longer ones of which appear lighter tlistally. Legs 

 yellow or light brown, of usnally a distinctly greenish tinge, becciining 

 darker with age; femora paler beneath ; in adults in most cases entirely 

 without any dark annuli or other markings or w'ith some narrow. 

 mf)stly faint darker-cross marks on the femora above (for young speci- 

 mens lid. note infra.); clothed witii short appressed fine haii-s of yellow, 

 and longer black hairs; scopuhi? black. Abdomen dark brown; above 

 with a black me<lian basal mark which widens from its ba.se to its middle, 

 where it projects on each siile in a pointed angle or line, and then 

 narrows to its apex which bifurcates, sending a narrow pointed line 

 caudo-laterally on each side, the margins of the stripe deeper colored 

 than central portion; a short distance back of the apex of the basal 

 mark is a black angular or chevron-shaped transvei"semark ; and following 

 this behind over the posterior part of doreum is a series of light brown 

 or yellow chevron-lines, each of which terminates at each of its ends in 

 a circular spot of the same color; each light chevron-line bordered in 

 front by a black line of similar form; lateral part of doi-sum mixed 

 black and l)rown, a large black spot over each antero-lateral angle- 

 sides mostly dark l^rown with many small spots of yellow and of black; 

 lower parts of sides and the venter brown to yellow with numerous 

 small dots of black, less commonly inunaculate, and at other times 

 almost entirely black; abdomen densely clothed with black and yellow 

 hair intermi.xed, the one predominating on the dark markings, the other 

 on the light. Spinnerets brown. Epicfynum dark reddish brown. 



Fuee rather low, its sides convex and strongly obliciue; paix ce|)halicu 

 not elevated above pai-s thoracica, the doi-sal line but little .sloping 

 from the third eye row to the posterior declivity, not depressed at 

 middle. 



Anterior row of eyes nearly as long as the second, a little procin-ve<l ; 

 anterior median eyes distinctly larger than the lateral, less than their 

 ra<lius apart, about an ecpial distance from the lateral eyes; anterior 

 lateral eycH separated from the front margin of the clypeus by once and 

 a third their diameter, or little more, the same distance from eyes of 

 second row; eyes of second row three-fourths their diameter apart; 

 cephalothorax 5.5 to 6 times as long as the cjua<lrangle of |)osterior eyes. 



Chelieenr with margins of furrow anne<l as usual, the first tooth <»f the 

 inferior nuir^in often with its lower part concealcil by a marginal keel 

 extending from base of claw. lAihium longer than wide (9.5 :.S.75); 

 basal ex<'avations one-third the total length; sides round(v| Inflow, 

 above nearly straight, c<»nver^inf: to the fn»nt margin which is widely 




22S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [MaV, 



truncate or slightly incurved mesally. Legs long and stout, tibia + 

 patella of fourth legs distinctly longer than the cephalothorax, the 

 latter being a little longer than tibia + patella of first legs; tai>^i of first 

 legs a little cur\'ed, those of second legs more slightly so; patella of 

 first legs unarmed ; patella of second legs with a single spine on anterior 

 side: spines of anterior tibia? as usual; both tarsi and metatarsi of three 

 anterior paii-s of legs scopulate; scopulse of third and fourth pairs 

 dividetl. 



Epigynurn somewhat oval in outline, with posterior end truncate; 

 guide inversely T-shaped, the septal part enlarging at or above its 

 middle; guide plates widest on transvei-se arms, narrowing and fading 

 out at middle of septum; furrows broad anteriorly, narrowed strongly 

 behind by the abrupt bulging in of the lateral tubercles. (PI. XVII, 

 fig. 1.) 



Total leiigth, 19.5 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 8.2 mm.; width, 

 6.8 ram. 



Length of leg I. 22.8 mm. ; tib. + pat.. 8 mm. ; met.. 4.5 mm. 



Length of leg II. 20.2 mm. 



Length of leg III, 19.3 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 27.8 mm. ; tib. + pat.. 9 mm. ; met., 7.8 mm. 



Mnlf. — Much smaller than the female with relatively longer legs. 

 Cephalothorax above and legs nearly a.s in the female or lighter. Ster- 

 niun usually more brownish, often divided by a median light line; 

 clothed with long light gray hair. Coxie of legs beneath light brtjwn 

 like the other joints of legs. Abdomen colored above as in the female; 

 lower portion of sides and the venter lighter yellow or grayish brown, 

 immaculate or nearly so. Palpi yellowish brown, the tai"sus darker. 



\'iewed from above, the tibia is scarcely longer than the patella and 

 is of the same thickness ; the tarsus equalling the length of the two pre- 

 c<*<ling jf)ints together; apical portion of tarsus long, seen from jjelow 

 ver}' gradually attenuated, not acute apically. Tenaculum long and 

 slender. ])rojecting ccto-distally, a smaller but similar secondary tenacu- 

 Itnn mesally from this and commonly in part or whole concealed. For 

 further structure of bulb see IM. XVII, fig. 2. 



Total ienirth. n.2 mm. Length of cephalothorax. 5.7 mm.; width, 

 4.2 nun. 



Ivcngth of log I, 17.8 mm.; tib. + pat., 6.1 mm. ; met., 4.1 nnu. 



I/fneth of leu II. 15.8 mm. 



IxMigth of U'g HI. l.'i.Omrn. 



liength of leg I\'. 21.2 nun. ; tib. + pat., 0.0 tiini. ; iiu't., 0.1 mm. 



SjTi. — 1X37. 7/>«r««n xai/i \N alrk<Mia<;r, In.sfct. -Vpt., 1, p. 3.'17. 

 1H46. Lycota bnbitujtoni HlHckwull, Ann. and .Mag. N. II., 17, p. 30. 




190S.] NATIKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 229 



1S4S. ".Lycom vnjm (C. Koch), We Araclin., 14, p. 135, PI. 490, fig. 136.5. 

 1S76. Trochosa helvijyea Keyserling, \'erh. z. b. Ges. Wien, 26, PI. 7, figs. 



35, 36, and PI. S, fig. 37. 

 1885. L]jcom nidicola Emerton, Tr. Conn. .\cad. Sci., 6, p. 482, PI. 46, 



figs. 1 to Irf. 



1890. Lycom babingloni, Marx, Proc. V. S. N. M., 12, p. 561. 

 . L'/cosn helluo. Marx, ibid., p. 562. 



. Lycosn nidicola, Marx, ibid., p. 562. 



. Lijcosa nidicola, .'^tone, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Pliila., 42, p. 424, 



1891. Lijcosa hahingtoni. Hanks. Ent. News, 2, p. 193. 



1892. Lycosa nidicola. Banks, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 44, p. 64. 

 . Lycosa similis Banks, ibid., p. 64, PI. II, fig. 30. 



. Lycosa crudelis Banks, ibid., p. 66, PI. 3, fig. 37. 



. Lycom nidicola, Marx, Proc. Ent. Soc. W., 2, p. 160. 



. Lycosa nidicola. Fox, ibid., p. 269. 



1895. Lyco.m Itabingtoni, Banks, J. X. V. Ent. See, 3, p. 91. 



. Lycosa babingloni. Banks. Ent. Xews, 6, p. 205. 



1S9S. Lycosa Ixitnngtoni , Banks, Pruc. Cal. Acad. Sci., p. 268. 



1900. Lyco.'ia babingloni. Banks, Proc. .\cad. Xat. Sci. Phiia., p. 538. 



1902. Lycosa helluo. Banks, Proc. .\cad. Xat. Sci. Pliila., p. 586. 



. Lyco-fa nidicola Enicrton, Common Sp. U. S., p. 69, figs. 166, 167. 



. Lxfcosa nidicola. Montgomery, Proc. .\cad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 559, 



PI.29, ■fiKs.23, 24. 



7'ype locality. — Xew Vork. 



Knnirn loMlUies. — .Ma.ssachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island!, New 

 Hampshire!, Xew York!. Pennsylvania, Xew Jersey, Maryland, Dis- 

 trict of Columbia!, Alabama, North Carolina, Georgia, Louisiana, 

 Texa.^!, Mississippi. Ohio, Indiana!, Illinois!, Iowa!, Kansas!, Colorado, 

 L'tah!. 



One of the conmionest and most widely distributed species, which is 

 subject to much variation in size and in depth of coloration. Because 

 of the abundance of this species it will be well to indicate the color 

 differences presente<l by partly grown individuals. These have the 

 sternum yellow with a narrow black stripe each side of middle line, 

 the two converging and uniting in front of posterior margin, and also 

 a row of small black dots along each lateral margin; the legs with 

 numerous aniuilatioas which are present on all joints except tarsi, with 

 sometimes indications of a median one on these; cephalothorax and 

 flUlomen al)ove nearly a-^ in a<lults; venter yellow with black dots 

 mimitc. 



The female L. nidicola buiMs a shallow excavation or nest under logs 

 and stones along roatlsides and in the woo<ls. She lines the nest 

 with silk and often surrounds it with a low rampart of earth or of sticks 

 and leaves. They are frequently met with in these nests with their 

 cocoons in early summer. 



Ljooaa grandU Bankii. IMM 



(J. N. V. Ent. Soc, p. 49.) 

 Female. — Coloration and pattern of markings .is in lirlluo, but lighter 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



throughout. Median pale stripe of cephalothorax clothed with golden 

 brown jjuliescence with some gray behind and brown at middle part 

 intermixed; sides clothed with brown and golden brown pubescence 

 intermixetl ; lateral pale stripes ■\\-ith mostly light gray pubescence, 

 less of brown. Legs clear yellowish, tiie two fii-st ]iaii"s of legs darker, 

 more reddish brown distally. Sternum and coxie of legs beneath 

 yellowish brown, like legs, clothed, like the legs also, with grayish 

 yellow intermixe*l with longer black hail's. Abdomen much lighter 

 than in tj'pical Eastern form of helluo; dol•sum^^•ith the typical mark- 

 ings, but these paler and less distinct; the venter pale yellow without 

 markings of any kind, clothed with yellow pubescence. Epigynum 

 reddish black. Spinnerets pale brown. 



Strueiure and proportions and the relations of the eyes as in helluo. 

 Epigynum agreeing in detail with that of helluo (PI. XMI, fig. 1). A 

 specimen from Baja California gave the following measurements: 



Total length. 24 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 10.2 mm.; width, 

 S mm. 



Length of leg I-, 25.9 mm. ; tib. + pat.. 9.8 nun. ; met.. 5 mm. 



I/ength of leg n. 24 mm. 



I^ength of leg III, 28.7 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 33.8 mm. ; tib. + pat., 11 mm. ; met., 9.6 mm. 



Male. — Lighter than the female. Chelieei'CE pale yellow with light 

 gray or whitish pubescence which is moderately long. Palpi pale 

 )-ellow, the tarsus not darker; tarsus clothed with dense white hair, 

 wliich occui"s also less densely upon the tibia; the jiatella and femur 

 clothfHl with yellow hair with Sf)me white more spai"sely intermixed. 

 Sternum and coxa of legs pale yellow, these and the legs clothed with 

 light yellow gray pubescence with some black hail's iiitermixe<l. Abdo- 

 men with ba.^al dark mark as usual; middle region of doi'sum yellowish, 

 clothetl with gray-yellow and brown pubescence intermixe<l, with on 

 each side behind a row of about six spots of whit<' hair: venter yellow 

 with light gray pubescence. 



Tibia -1- patella of first legs longer than tibia + patella of fourth 

 ones. Tai'susof 7yi/;>j/.s shorter than the two preceding joints t(»gether. 

 Structure of palpal organ agreeing in detail with that of helluo (I'l. 

 XVII, fig. 2). 



A male from Lower California gave the following measurements : 



Tf»tal length, 14.2 mm. Length of rcpluilotliorax, 7.0 mm.: width, 

 6.1 mm. 



l-<'ngth of leg 1. 27.2 mm. ; tib. 4- pat., !).S! niiii. ; met.. 0.3 mm. 



Length of leg 1 1, 22.9 mm. 




HXJS.] NATURAL .SCIKNCES OF PHILADKLPHl A. 231 



length of leg 111, 22.2 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 30.3 mm. ; tib. + ])at., 9.2! mm. ; met.. 8.S mm. 



S^Ti. — 1895. Lycosa grandis Hanks, Ami. N. Y. .Vcad. Sci., 8. 

 1898. Lycosa grandis Bank.s, Proc. C"al. .\cacl. Sci. 



Type locality. — Colorado. 



Known localities. — Colorado; liaja California!. 



So far as I have determined, tibia + jjatella of fourth legs of the male 

 in Eai»tcrn specimens of helluo is longer than til)ia + patella of fii^st pair 

 or sometimes, in large specimens, of the same length, whereas the 

 reveree is seen to be true in grandis. But as the relative lengths of 

 these two pairs of joints varies in helluo and apparently with the size 

 of the individual, the increase<l relative length of tibia + i)atella of the 

 first pair, and in fact of the entire firet leg, may not be of much signifi- 

 cance. The agreement between helluo and grandis is thus clo.se e.\cepting 

 in color and size, and it might therefore be more iirojjer to place the 

 latter as a variety under the former. 



Lycoia floridana Bank!<. 



(Tran.s. Am. Eiit. S<.c., X.XllI, ,.. 7l'.) 



Fenuile. — Cephalolhorax with a median light colore<l longitudinal 

 band which anteriorly is geminated and is nearly as wide as the eye 

 area, with on each side a narrow supramarginal light brown strii)e 

 which is iliscontinuous, being broken into four or more parts. Cheli- 

 cerw dark reddish brown. Sternum brown, with a black mark along 

 middle. Legs brown, with the distal joints darker, blackish brown; 

 femora above with some rather obscure black marks. Cokc brown, all 

 with a black, very distinct line along front face. Abdomen above 

 black; sides and lateral j)art of venter blackish over a yellow ground, 

 mixeti 3'ellow and black; venter yellow. 



Cephaloth(yrax low, its dorsal line straight and but sligljtly slanting 

 from the third eye row to the posterior declivity, which is short and 

 steep. Face in height more than half the length of the chclicera?, 

 sides slanting uKKlerately outward from above downward. 



Anterior row ttf eyes shorter tlian the seconil, rather strongly pi*o- 

 curved. 



Chelicrrft arnie<l as usual. 



Epigynum relatively snuill, .S (tr .!J mm. long; in form and structure 

 ver>' .similar to that of helluo, but the septiun of guide broader and 

 more strongly expande<l anteriorly, where it almost extends across the 

 entire <lej)ress('<l area. 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Length. 14.2 nun. Length of cephalothorax, 6 mm. ; width. 4.3 mm. 



Length of leg L 13 mm. : tib. -}- pat.. 6 nmi. ; tan^us. 2.1 mm. 



I^ngtli of leg n, 11.7 mm. 



Length of leg III, 11 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 15.6 mm. : til>. + pat.. 7 mm. ; tai"sus, 3 mm. 



LocolUii. — Florida !. 



Lycosa apioata Bank^^. 1904. 



(Juurn. X. Y. Ent. Soc, p. 114. Pi. V, fig. 13.) 



Female. — Cephalothorax brown, marked with a median paler band as 

 wide anteriorly as the third eye row, between the eyes of which it 

 extends in a tongiie-like process for^Nard, this narrower process in 

 life clothed with white hair; the median band constricted at the dorsal 

 g^oo^•e and extending from there down the posterior declivity as 

 narrower stripe; on each side beginning mesally from the eye of the 

 third row a dark line extends posteriorly through the median pale 

 band to the point of its constriction where it unites with the dark 

 of the sides; a narrow, anteriorly interrupted, supramarginal pale 

 strii)e with dentate margin. Cheliceroe deep chestnut or reddish black. 

 Labium and endites reddish black, the former a little paler apically. 

 Stenunn and cox(e of legs beneath black. Legs light brown; the 

 femora with darker markings which are more distinct on the posterior 

 pairs: tibiie of fourth legs black at each end beneath, the metatarsi 

 sometimes also darkened distally; legs elsewhere without evident 

 markings. Abdomen above light brown or yellowish; a dark, black- 

 edge<l. spear-shaped mark which is laterally dentate and blunt or 

 forked at its posterior end; the spear-mark followed i)osteriorly with 

 a series of dark chevron-shaped transverse marks, which ma}' be 

 separated by cctrresponding transverse marks of white hair, the 

 chevrons conuuonly confluent laterally with dark mot t lings at the 

 sides and thereby with each other, in other cases confluent mesally 

 with each other and with the basal mark; sides of alxlomen above 

 with ,'«pots and streaks of brown, pale below; venter entirely black. 



Cephalothorax highest at the third eye row. the dorsal line as seen 

 in profile frrnii there a little sloping and nearly straight to the jjostcrior 

 declivity. Fare relatively low. its sides nuKlcrafeiy slanting outward 

 from above below. 



Anterior row of eyes clearly sliorter tli:in llie second, a little j)ro- 

 curved ; anterior me<iian eyes less than their radius apart, alxiut the 

 same distance from the lateral eyes, which are smaller than the median. 

 Eyex of the .second row less than their diameter apart. 




19(J.S.] XATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



Patelhc of first and .second paii"s of legs armed in front witli a short 

 spine. Tibia + patella of first legs about equalling the cephalothorax 

 in length; tibia 4- patella of fourth legs clearly longer than the cephalo- 

 thorax and also longer than the nietatai-sus of same legs. 



Chelicene armed a.s usual, the three teeth of lower margin stout. 



The epigynum having the general form and structure of that of L. 

 helluo (PI. X\TI. fig. 1); septum widest anteriorly, its sides nearly 

 straight ; transvci-se arms rather thick. 



Total length. 13.5 nmi. Length of cephalothorax, 6.3 mm.; width, 

 4.8 nuu. 



Length of leg I, 19.3 nun. ; tib. + pat., 6.2 mm. ; met., 3.8 mm. 



Length of leg II, 16.2 mm. 



Length of l«>g III, 16.2 nuu. 



Length of leg 1\', 23.5 nun. ; tib. + pat., 7 nuu. ; met., 6.7 mm. 



Male. — Coloration as for the female; but the markings more distinct. 



Paljxil organ of the general tyi)e of that of L. hdluo (Pi. X\'II, 

 fig. 2). The auricula conspicuous, more strongl}' chitinized than 

 usual, dark in color, turned outward apically. Principal tenaculum 

 relatively shorter, and more outwardly directed than in helluo. 



Total length, 13 nmi. Length of cephalothorax, 6.S mm.; width, 

 5 mm. 



Length of leg I, 20.7 mm. ; tib. + pat., 7 mm. ; met,, 4.8 mm. 



I^Migth of leg II, 19.1 mm. 



I.«ength of leg III, 19.1 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 25.4 mm. ; tib. + pat.. 7.S mm. ; met., 7.6 mm. 



Syn. — 1904. Lycosa anitiuaina Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nut. .Sci. Pliila. 

 p. 282, PI. Will, fig.s. ') and G. 



Type localities. — Arizona and Texas. 



Kuoirti loralities. — Arizona!. Texas!, Xew .Mexico. 



Tlie <lescriptions above are from type specimens. 



Lyeota p«rmanda Chaint>«rlin, I9<>4. 

 (Can. Entomologist, p. 286.) 

 Female. — Cephalothorax dark brown; a pale narrow median line 

 extending backward from first eye row, widening al)ruptly in front of 

 dorsal groove, and then gradually narrowing to a point at p«)sterior 

 margin ; a inroad light-colore<l nmrginal stripe on each side not extending 

 forward farther than the third ej-e row, it.s upper margin coarsely 

 dentate, the lower border broken by a few dark dots, but not limite<l 

 Ik'Iow by a continuous dark line or stripe at nuirgin, Chelicenv l)lack. 

 Lahiuin and tnilitiH dark brown. Sternum dark brown, with a yellow 




234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF V^^'-^}' . 



median line. Legs brown, darker distally; beneath unmarked, but 

 having a number of dark croi>s-bars above on femora and posterior tibite. 

 Abdomen al)ove dark, having the usual lanceolate mark at base, followed 

 by a series of light colored , chevron-formed transvei^se lines, each ending 

 on each side in a light dot ; sides yellowish brown, densely spottefl with 

 black ; venter also yellowish brown, more sparsely co-vered with smaller 

 black dots, much as in helluo. 



Length. 22 mm. Length of cephalothorax. 10.7 mm. ; width, 8 mm. 

 Length of leg I\'. 30.3 mm. 



Male. — Colored nearly like the female, but paler throughout. Mar- 

 ginal stripes of cephalothorax not interrupted below by dark spots. 

 Legs clear brown, without any cross-marking on any joints. Palpi 

 yellowish brown e.xcepting tarsus, which is black. 



Length. 20 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 10 mm. ; width, 7.5 mm. 



Length of leg \\, 32.4 mm. 



Locality. — Kansas !. 



In general appearance the female resembles helluo, but is easily 

 separated by structure of epigynum and by various other characters. 

 The male is conspicuously different in its palpal organ and in size, 

 proportion and structure from those of related species. 



Lyoosa riparia Hentz, 1844. 



(J. Host. Soc. X. H., IV, p. 289.^ 

 Female. — Cephalothorax with a narrow me<lian light band, widest at 

 dorsal groove, narrowing anteriorly and continuing as a distinct line 

 between eyes to the clypeus; median banfl formed of grayish-yellow 

 pul>escence; tegument of cephalothorax elsewhere deep brown or 

 reddish brown, black over eye area, clothed with black pubescence, 

 intermixe<l with fewer yellowish or l^rownish-gray hairs which are more 

 abundant below but form no distinct band; rufous hail's about the 

 eyes and on the face. Chelicer(e black with rufous pubescence over 

 upper half and black j)ulM'Scence below. Labium and r«r///r.s black, 

 brown at ti|).'<. Sternum and coxa; of logs beneath black with longer 

 and stiff black hairs and some short gray pubescence. Ground color 

 of tegument of letfM dark re«ldish brown ; the tai"si and metatarsi darker, 

 all jointrt except these two with distinct light and dark rings, the 

 latter being broader, clothed respectively with grayiHh-l)rown -and 

 black pubj-rtcenco. tarsi and metatarsi appearing entirely black because 

 of black scopula) and black pubescence, the shorter brown hail's being 

 few, AMomen ab(»ve grayish brown, with scattered minute spots of 

 black pul>escence; a numluT of black chevron-marks behind jim<1 in 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 235 



front an indi.stinct outline of a lanceolate mark behintl a chevron which 

 is coinnionJy divideil niesally into two triangular marks ; near the middle 

 of lanceolate outline on each side, the dark line more strongly im- 

 pre.'^sed as a black triangular mark with apex forward; a light spot 

 laterally from upper part of basal mark; behind on each side a series of 

 light spots which may be indistinct; front face of abdomen and antero- 

 lateral angles black; sides dark above, having black pubescence 

 intermixe<l with brown in fine spots and streaks; in middle the 

 sides are lighter, the brown pubescence being in liarger spots. The 

 venter and commonly the lower part of sides black, but, especially at 

 sides, with spots of brown; often brown pubescence in four narrow lines 

 on venter, converging from lung slits to spinnerets, divide the black 

 of venter into three contiguous bands, much as in aspersa. Spin- 

 nerets brown. Epigijnxim Ijlack or reddish black. 



Face mixlcrate in height, hardly one-half the length of the massi^•e 

 chelicera^. Ccphnlothorax above nearly straight and horizontal or but 

 little convex between third row of eyes and posterior declivity; the 

 posterior declivity short, only posterior end of dorsal groove being 

 upon it ; sides rather strongly bulging behind ; sides of face convex and 

 strongly .slanting. 



First row of eyes straight or very nearly so, shorter than second row; 

 anterior median eyes distinctly larger than the lateral, le.'^s than their 

 ratlins apart, closer to the lateral eyes; anterior lateral eyes remove*! 

 from front margin of dypeus and from eyes of second row by about 

 once and a half their diameter; anterior median eyes less than their 

 liiameter from eyes of second row ; eyes of second row less than their 

 diameter apart (about three-fourths); ciuadrangle of posterior eyes 

 about one-fifth as long as the cephalothorax. 



Le(js long; tibia + patella of fourth legs a little longer than cephalo- 

 thorax and also longer than metatai"sus of same legs; tibia + patella of 

 fii"Ht pair of same length as cephalothorax ; patella of first legs unarmeil, 

 patella of second armed anteriorly with a single spine; tibia and meta- 

 tarsus arme<l as usual ;scopulu' on anterior tarsi an<l metatarsi as usual; 

 ttcopulre of pasterior tarsi divide<l by setose baiuls as usual. 



Tor form epitjumim see IM. .W'll, fig. 5. 



Total k'ligtli. is. 5 Mini. Length of cephalothorax, *J nun.; width, 

 6.9 nmi. 



Length of leg 1. 'J 1.5 mum.; lib. -f pat., •.) iimm. ; mkM., S.6 mm. 



I.«'Mgth of leg II, 22. S mm. 



Ix'Ugth of leg III. 21. 4 mm. 



IxMigth of leg I\', 29.0 mm. ; til), -f |)at., 9. .3 mm. ; met., S.5 mm. 



Male. — I'or structure of jntljud organ .«*eo 1*1. X\ II, fig. 0. 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THK ACADEMY OF [^laV, 



Syn. — 1S7.5. Li/cosa rijnina Ilc-ntz. Sp. V. S.,ji. 31, PI. 3, figs. 13. lo. 



. Lycosa ri/xiria. Cragin, Contril). to Kiiowl. Arachn.. Kansas BiUl., 



Waiihl»"uni, Coll. 1. Xo. 4, p. 14G. 

 1890. Lycosa n>irm. Marx, Proc. V. S. X. M., 12. p. 503. 

 1900. Lycosa riparia, Bank.s, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Pliila.. p. 539. 



Type locoUiies. — Xortli Carolina, Alaliania. 



Habitat. — North Carolina!, South Carolina, Alabama!, Georgia!, 

 I^uisiana!, Mississippi. \'irginia. West Virginia, District of Columbia!, 

 Kansas, Texa^. 



"This conmion spicier is aquatic in its habits, ahvays found near or 

 on water, and diving with ease under the surface when threatened or 

 pursued" (Hentz). 



Lycosa aspersa Hentz. 1844. 



(liost. Joum. Xat. Hi.st., IV, p. 389, PI. XVII, figs. 11, 12.) 

 Female. — Cephalothorax dark reddisli brown, blacki?h aljout the 

 eyes; a lighter uneven-etlged marginal band on each side, and a similaily 

 colore<l narrow median stripe more or lo.'^s distinct; sides of cej^lialo- 

 thorax den.'^ely clothe<l witli black pubescence with more scattercil 

 haire of yellowish intermixed ; the narrow median stripe dotlied with 

 yellowish or golden-l)rown hair, which forms a l)right strijic which 

 continues forward as a line between the eyes and reaches the anterior 

 row, the stripe expanding posteriorly about i1h> doi-sal groove and then 

 again narrowing down the posterior declivity to the i)ost('ri()r margin; 

 the middle stripe of pubescence sometimes (»bscure in middle region, but 

 always bright at anterior and posterior portions ; along each side similar 

 yellowish hair forms a luirrow marginal stripe which is narrower than 

 the broa<ler suj)ramarginal stripe of tegument ; front margin of cly]>eus 

 at miildle with a fringe of yellowish hair. Cheh'cerw, including claws, 

 black, clothe<l with nKnleratdy long black j)ubcscence withoiit any 

 short paler hairs. luulitcs and labium brown-black, lighter at tijis. 

 Sternum black, a narrow light colored me<lian line anteriorly; clotluHJ 

 with black hair. Coxa of legs beneath black, lighter, yellowish brown, 

 laterally, at ba*<e beneath a similarly colore^l light spot which is mostly 

 acutely pointe<ldistally. Leys brown, of lightshatleinyoungspecimens, 

 becoming dark reddish brown with age, deeper colorci I distally ; all joints 

 excepting the tarsi and the metatarsi with light cnK-^s-bands whicji are 

 distinctabove, especially on femora. ImiI which may be obscure beneath; 

 light rings much more distinct in young .specimens than in old, and in 

 the latter f)n the i)osterior paii-s of legs than on the anterior; legs 

 densely clothed with long black hairs intermixed with shorter yellowish 

 puljescence, tlie latter mostly confine<l to the lighlrr l)ands in tegument. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 237 



Abdomen above veiy tlark ; a basal black mark with end behind forkeil 

 and followed by a series of chevron-marks, all the marks usually 

 indistinct in older specimens, in which the entire dorsum is black or 

 nearly so; dorsum clothed in life with black and grayish-brown pubes- 

 cence, the lighter pubescence more concentrated anteriorly and antero- 

 laterally, and also forming some mostly obscure transverse chevron- 

 marks i)ehind; in dark specimens the sides are dark or black-streaked 

 and spotted below with yellow pubescence, with the yellow sometimes 

 predominating over the black ; venter with numerous spots and streaks 

 of yellow pubescence usually arrangeil mostly in four lines or stripes 

 converging to the spinnerets, and thus dividing the dark into three 

 bands similarly converging caudally. Spinnerets brown. Epiqynnm 

 reddish brown. 



Face rather low, not fully half as high as the chelicerie are long, the 

 latter long and massive, considerably longer than the face is wide in 

 front. Cephnlolhordx not high, doi-sal line highest at third eye row. 

 from there being nearly straight to the posterior declivity. 



Anterior row of cijes as wide as or slightly wider than the second, 

 nearly straight; anterior mc^dian eyes less than their radius apart, 

 about as far from lateral eyes; anterior lateral eyes a little more than 

 two-thirds as largo iu diameter as tlu^ uKnlian, once and one-half their 

 diameter from front margin of clypcus, i-loser to eyes of second row; 

 eyes of second row a little less than Ihcir <liameter apart ; eyes of third 

 row three-fourtiis as large as the second, twice as far from each other 

 as from the second; cephalothorax 0.5 times the length of the (piail- 

 rangle of posterior eyes. 



Chrlicera; armed as usiial. JAi})lum longer than wide (8.5 : 8); basal 

 excavation as usual; sides strongly conve.xly Ijulging, the curvature 

 less above than below; front margin wide, concave for nearly entire 

 width (PI. IX, fig. 0). I.njs stout ; til)ia + i)at('lla IV .shorter than the 

 cephalothora.x; metatai-sus 1\' of nearly same lengtji as the width of tin' 

 cephalothorax; tai-si 1 an<l II slightly cmvol. Ill and IV straight; 

 tarsi scopulate as usual, the scopnhe on legs 1 and II extending also 

 over metatarsi and over all but basal portion of tibia'." spines of tibiir 

 as usual. 



Kor structure of cpii/i/num see IM. .W'll, fig. 7. 



Total lerigth, 23 mm. Length of ce|)halothorax. 10.0 nun.; width. 

 8.2 mm. 



Length of leg 1, lT).*) mm. ; til). + |)at .. ".>.3 mm. ; met.. 5.1 mm. 



Length of leg II. 23.2 mm. 



Ixjngth of leg III. 21 .5 mm. 

 16 




23S PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May. 



Length of leu 1\'. .'iO.l mm. ; til). + pat., 9.8 mm. ; met., 8.3 mm. 



Male. — Mucii lighter in color than the female, but the color patterns 

 are nearly the same. The lighter pubescence is much more abundant 

 on cephahthorax than in the female, much predominating over that of 

 blackish color. Legs much lighter with the yellow pubescence dense, 

 while the longer black hairs are comparatively sparse; femora with 

 traasverse dark bands above, but these indistinct or absent at sides 

 and ventrally; distinct dark rings on tibia3. Labium and endites some- 

 times colored as in female but often much lighter, almost yellow. 

 Coxa; of legs beneatli with black on ventral surface, often reduced to a 

 few spots at distal end, the coxae being elsewhere yellow. On the 

 abdomen also the yellow and brown pubescence predominates over the 

 black, the latter appearing over the black basal band (which is distinct, 

 widest toward posterior end and pointed anteriorly), over the antero- 

 lateral angles and in variously formed spots and streaks laterally, 

 mr)st of the dorsum l^eing thus in life of a golden brown color; venter 

 usually j'ellow with some spots of black, less often as in the female. 



The chdicerce clothed on basal half with long golden yellow hairs, 

 distally with black hairs. 



Tibia + patella I\' longer than the cephalothorax, of same length 

 as the metatarsus ; patella I and II armed in front and behind. 



For structure of palpal organ see PI. XVII, fig. 8. 



Total lengtli. IS mm. Length of cephalothorax, 9.1 mm.; greatest 

 width. 7.2 nun 



Length of leg 1, iJO.I mm.; tib. + pat., 10 nuu.; met., 7.4 mm. 



Length of leg II, 27.8 nun. 



length of leg III, 26.2 mm. 



I/ength of leg IV. .35 nun. ; tib. + pat., 10.5 mm.; met., 10.5 mm. 



Svn. — 1S7G. Tarenlulu inhonesta Keyserliiig, Wrli. z. b. Ges. Wieii, 26, p. 

 '6.34, Pi. 7, fig. 17. 

 • 187.S. TfirrtJul'i li'irina Mr(>"()(tk. 



1HS.5. L<fcom rulfu'wi Kincrton, Tr. ('oim. Acad. Sri., (>, p. 1S7, 1*1. 47, fig. 2. 

 189<). TnrenJula irt/u„u-sf,i, .Mar.x, Proc. U. S. N. M., 12. 



. Lycnuo i'ulf>ina, .Miirx, UtiH. 



1890. Lyconn tigrimi, .Stoiir, IVoc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 42, p. 423. 

 1892. Lycona vulphm, Hanks, op. rit., 44, p. 07, PI. I, fig. 39. 



. Lycoufi tigrirui, .Marx, Pn)c. Ent. iSoc. W ., 2, p. KM). 



. LyroHii tiijrinn. I'ox, /^iV/., p. ,').3S. 



1898. L'^roxn lli/rimi, Siiiioii, Hist. \at. .\raigii., 2. 

 IWK). LyroMii fahfern, Maiiks, Proc. .\ca<l. Nat. .S-i.. Pliila., p. .5:}S. 

 1902. LyroHii inhiinrMln, .MoiilgoiiiiTy, «/'. cil., p. .'j.57, PI. 2'.), (igs. 21, 22. 

 l'.*<)4. Ltfcam inhonefla, .Moiitgoini'ry, Proc. .\cad. -Nal. Sci. i'liila., p. 2'JO, 

 IM .\X. (inH. 38, 39, 



7'///" Inralitj/. — ".\orth .AmcricH." 



Known /of';/j7tV'.s. — .MassHchusctts. Khodi' isliitid, New York!, New 




190S.] NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 239 



Jersey, Penasylvania, District of Columbia, Alabama, Georgia!, 

 Indiana, Kansas!. 

 A well-known species of burrowing habits. 



Lycosa arenicola Scudder, 1877. 

 (Psyche, 2, p. 2.) 

 Female. — Tegument of cephalothorax dark reddish brown to blackish, 

 scarcely lighter above; a median lighter band a little wider than third 

 eye row in front, strongly narrowed anteriorly to dorsal groove and 

 iLsually expanding again back of groove; the Ijand chiefly produced 

 by a finer gray or white pubescence intermixe<l with coareer brown, 

 the tegument beneath being usually but little lighter than on sides; 

 sides of cephalothorax covered with brown pubescence, gray hairs 

 scattered but showing more abuntlantly below, especially posteriorly. 

 C/ielicercB dark reddish brown to nearly black, clothed %\'ith a dense 

 coat of rusty brown colored pubescence, fringe along furrow of 

 cheliceraB brighter, re<ldish or coffee colored. Labium and cnditcs dark 

 redilish brown, paler distally. Sternum dark reddish brown to nearly 

 black. Anterior cox(e of legs dark brown to nearly black, posterior 

 coxip lighter. Legs reddish brown, the anterior paii-s darker than the 

 posterior; the femora, patelUi' and tibiae of the first and second legs 

 nearly black beneath; distal ends of posterior tarsi and metatarsi 

 usually ilarker; legs clothtMl with dense coat of mixed gray and brown 

 pubescence and longer dark brown bristles, scopulae brown. Abdomen 

 densely pubescent; a dark brown median band on doi"sum roa<'hing to 

 the spinnerets l)ehind, wiiich just in front of middle has on each side 

 a broad indentation, and which has behind the middle a series of nar- 

 row paired indentatioiLs; the band cov('re<l or largely formeil by dark 

 brown pui)e.scenco. Sides of dorsum grayish brown, the pubescence 

 being brown and gray intermixed, the brown more abundant above; a 

 dark l)rown band of same color jis median one crossing each antero- 

 lateral angle and ruiming ol)li(juely backward and downward, meeting 

 the venter back of middle. Venter brown to dark brown, usually a 

 darker band from genital furrow to spimieret.s, Epigynum dark retl- 

 dish brown. Spinnerets brown. 



Cephalothorax wide in front; in profile second eyes seem to Ik* lower 

 <lown on face than usual, hi<;hest at third eye row; pars cephalica convex; 

 posterior declivity beginning on jxirs cephnliea a considerable distance 

 in front of thoracic furrow, making the declivity ver}' long and the pos- 

 terior portion of cephalothorax very low and exajrrerating apparent 

 height of front |)art. Faee mcHlerate in h<'ii:ht. not fully half the 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



length of the chelicerre. protruding above over base; sides convex, 

 slanting below. 



Anterior row of eyes almost as wide as second, a little procurved; 

 anterior median eyes larger than the lateral, not fully their radius 

 apart, about as close as to lateral eyes; anterior lateral eyes their 

 diameter from eyes of second row, twice their diameter from front 

 margin of clypeiis ; eyes of second row their diameter, or slightly more 

 than their diameter apart, not fully half as far again from eyes of 

 third row. Quadrangle of posterior eyes hardly one-fifth the length 

 of the cephalothorax. 



Lower margin of furrow of cheUcerco with three equal teeth, the upper 

 margin with three as usual; the smaller teeth above more than usually 

 stout. 



Legs distinctly increasing in thickness from the fourth to the fii"st, the 

 first conspicuously stoutest; tarsi and metatarsi I and II densely 

 seopiilate; tarsus III with scopula divided by a median setose band; 

 tarsus IV with scopulse much reduced, the scopular hairs being sparse 

 along each side, the setose band occupying most of ventral surface; 

 tibiae I and II and metatarsi I and II armed as usual, the spines of tibiae 

 usually slender and easily rubbed off or overlooked; patelke I and II 

 each armed in front with a spine; tibiic III and l\ without true spines 

 above; femora I and II bent forward, IV backward, less so; III nearly 

 straight. Tibia + patella IV shorter than cephalothorax; metatarsus 

 IV much shorter than tibia 4- patella, but longer than tibia, less than 

 width of cephalothorax. 



For structure of epig>'num sec PI. XX, fig. 9. 



Total length, 20.2 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 10.1 mm.; width, 

 7.3 mm. 



Length of log I. 23 mm. ; tib. + pat., 8.1 mm.; met., 4.9 mm. 



length of leg II, 20.5 mm. 



I>ength of leg III, 19.9 mm. 



I>ength of leg IV, 26.3 mm. ; tib. + pat., 9 mm. ; met., 6.9 mnj. 



Syn.— 1881. Tareniula nidijei .Marx, Am. Nat., p. 396. 



iSK.'i. Lycom nidi/ex (.Marx) EiinTton, Trans. Conn. Acad., \l, p. 4.s7, I'l. 



47, fipi. 4, 4a. 

 1H.S8. Lycom arenicola .Sfuddor, McCook, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., ISSS, 



p. 333. 

 18.S9. Lycom arenicola Scudder, Marx, .Xranea? N. A., pp. 561 and 59-1, note 



lid. 

 isiH). Lycom arenicola ScuddtT, Stone, Proc. .\cad. Nat. Sci. Pliila. 

 1S02. LyrtfHn nrenicnln Sriiddfr, Mnrx, Proc. K. S. \V.. II. p. 10(). 

 XSitFi. Li/roM nrenimlfi Scuddcr, Manks, J. \. V. K. S.. Ill, p. !tl. 

 1898. Lycosa arenicola S<'uddcr, Sirnr)n, Hiht. .\at., 11, p. .'Ml. 




11MJ8.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



1902. Lycosa arenicola ^H-udder, Montgomery, Proc. .\cad. Nat. Sci. Pliila , 



p. 550, PI. XXIX, fig. 13. 

 1904. Geolycosa arenicola, Montgomers', Proc. .\cad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 



299. 



Known localities. — Massachusetts, Rhode Island!, Connecticut!, New 

 York (Long Island!), Xew Jersey, District of Columbia, Pennsylvania, 

 Maryland, Virginia, Indiana. 



This species is our best known turret builder. Its burrows are com- 

 monly from 10 to 12 inches deep, often one-half inch wide, and are 

 surmounted by turrets usually one and one-half inches in height. 



Lyeosa fatifera Henti. 1842. 



Hiost. J. X. Hist., IV, p. 229, PI. 2, fig. 8.) 



Female. — Cephalothorax with dark red-brown tegument, often 

 blacki.^h about eyer^ ; clothe<l with tawny colored or rufous pubescence 

 and showing no markings. Chelicera^ dark reddish brown, with brown 

 or grajTsh-brown pubescence, rufou-i distally along furrow. Labium 

 and endUes reddish brown, lighter at tips. Sternum and cojo" of leg 

 beneath light or yellowish brown. clothe<l with gray pul)escence. 

 Legs reddish brown; the femora beneath much lighter, yellowish; the 

 tii)ia', tarsi and metatarsi commonly much darker, especially in 

 anterior pairs dothal with grayish pui)escence; scopuhn brown. 

 Abdomen above dark brown, clothed with dense brown or tawny pubes- 

 cence; venter with light, sometimes grayish-brown pubescence. 

 Spinnerets brown. Epigynum dark reddish brown. 



Cephalothorax ver>' wide in front, nearly five-si.\ths as wide as l^ehind, 

 the sides but little bulging. In profile the cephalothorax is seen to 

 have j)ars cephalica large and conve.v; highest between eyes of third 

 row and doi-sal groove; posterior declivity long, the median furrow being 

 upon its upjM-r portion. Face appearing rather high, but only slightly, 

 if at all. more than half the lengtii of the ma-ssive clielict'ra>; sides 

 convex and slanting as usual. lii>-t row of eyes as long as second, a 

 little pr(»curve<l; anterior m('<lian eyes more than their radius apart, 

 a** far from the anterior lati-ral eyes which are smaller; anterior lateral 

 eyes more than their diameter from eyes of the second row, more than 

 once and a half their diameter from front margin of dypeus; anterior 

 nu'<lian eyes their diameter from eyes of second row, <»r nearly .so; eyes 

 of second row their diameter apart ; (iua<lrangle of posterior eyes about 

 one-sixth the length of the cephalothorax. Lajs rather .»<liort and 

 stoiit ; the fourth pair two and one-half timt^ the length of the cephalo- 

 thorax; the second pair twice as hjng as the cephalothorax; tibia -f- 

 patella IV .shorter than the cephalothorax, .««ame length as tibia 4- 




242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^Iay» 



patella I; metatarsus IV shorter than tibia + patella IV by one-third 

 of its own length ; first and second tarsi and metatai'si and distal end of 

 tibia* scopulate; tai-si III and IV with scopulje divided by a median 

 setose band; patella I and III armetl in front (within) with a single 

 spine. 



The cpigi/num of Ljjcoso fatifcra is ver}' much like that of Lycosa 

 lenta, but is smaller, being not more than half as long, also the septal 

 piece of the guide in lenta is more than two and one-fourth times as 

 long as the cross-piece, whereas it is less than twice as long in fatifera; 

 the cross-piece is also somewhat differently shaped in the two (PI. 

 XX, fig. 8.) 



Total length. 17.5 nmi. Length of cephalothorax. 9.3 mm.: width, 

 6.5 mm. 



Length of leg I, 20.5 mm. ; tib. -I- pat., 8 mm. ; met., 4.4 mm. 



Length of leg II, 18.7 mm. 



Length of leg III, 16.4 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 23.5 mm, ; tib. + pat., 8 mm, ; met., 6.1 mm. 



Ti/pe locality. — Alabama. 



Known localities. — Alabama!, Georgia!, Texas, Missouri!, Kansas!, 

 Illinois, Utah!. 



Syn.— 1832. Lycosa fatifera Sill, J. Sc. and Arts (ad. part.), pp. lOG-107. 

 1875. Lycosa fatifera Hentz, Spiders of U. S. (lJiirpes.s), p. 26, PI. 2, fig. 8. 

 1895. Lycosa mi.'<.sourietisis Banks, Ent. Xew.s., \o\. IV, p. 206. 

 1899. Lycosa domifcx Hancock, Ent. News, Vol. X, p. 26. 

 1904. Geoli/cosa latifrons Montgomcrv, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., p. 295, 

 Pl.XIX,fig8. 1.5-lS. 



It seems very probable that Hentz. in his notes on habits, has con- 

 foundo<l two specie'* under the name fatifn'a ; but the description and the 

 figure which he gives can hardly be applicable to any other species 

 than the one under consideration. The description and figure indicate 

 a form without distinct markings, and his statement that a "piceous 

 variety is found in Alabama, with the two first joints of the legs pectus 

 and alxlomen yellowish imderneath, or lighter in color," applies per- 

 fectly to some specimens of the form above described which I have 

 from this same k)cality, and which is very connnon there and must 

 have been well known to Hentz. This form fits only his description of 

 fatifrrn among all treated liv him. The sj)(»cies which Hentz observed 

 living in holes in .Ma.'^sachusetts, and which he says is conun(»n there, 

 may have been L. aspersa (inhoncsta), as has been suggested by Banks, 

 but far more likely it wm* nnnicohi, theconunon turret builder of that 

 region. Hentz says: "t'heliceres covere<l with rufous hairs," which is 

 not so in most specimens of asptrsa. The strong markings of asp<rsa 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADKLPHIA. 243 



would not have been passed over. However, Hentz would seem to 

 have written his description after he had been in the Soutli and away 

 from Massachusetts for many yeai-s, and iloul)tless had before him 

 only the Southern form, which he eiToneously supposeil to be the 

 same as the turret builder he recalled as common in Massachusetts. 

 Old antl rubbed specimens of arcnicola might appear similar, as the 

 markings in this form are due to color of the hair. Whatever Northern 

 form it was the habits of which Hentz had in mind, it was lonj; ago 

 separated under another name, and this common antl widespread 

 Southern form which Hentz undoubtedly described as and called 

 jatijcra must logically continue to bear this name. 



The species ha^ been found abundant in the "sandy waters bordering 

 the lower end of Lake Michigan" by -Mr. J. C. Hancock ('99) who says: 

 "Patches of high grass, salges and ragweeds made the f)pen lay of ground 

 a paradise of rumiing spidei's. Here it wa.s tiie castle-building species 

 [termed by him domifex] seemed perfectly at home, showing its varied 

 accompli.shments to best advantage. The artfully-hidden castle is 

 not apparent to the uninitiated while walking over the ground, as it is 



commonly secreted in a recess of overhanging dried grass 



When OHO remembers the average size of the adult castle, only five- 

 eighths of an inch high and a little over one-half inch in diameter, it is 

 obvious that close inspection is quite essential. Usually the spider's 

 tube is constructe<l vertically in the ground, unless obstructions cause 



some deviations Old spid(M-s live in their burrows for more 



than a season and often remodel them after l3eing injure<l by storms. 

 Yovmger specimens re-<liir outgrown burrows, enlarging them as 



occasion requires .Materials use<l in the con.struction of the 



turrets were green and dried grass leaves, drietl fine sedges, leaves of 

 foxtail grass, fibrous roots, etc. Young specimens not infrequently 

 build a perfect little tower, almost entirely of stones, and one I have 

 in mind had nine such particles made into a compact edifice five milli- 

 meters high. The masonry was exquisitely put up, ever}- stone bearing 

 out true proportions about the central opening of four millimeters 

 diameter. Silk use<l as cement held the whole together securely," 



The author has found the burrows of this species al)undant over 

 gra-ssy stretches on the foothills near Salt Lake Oty, In the case 

 of some burrows no turrets are present; but in most cases turrets of 

 drie<l sticks, grass or earth are found. 



Lyeosa lenU Hrnii, IK4-I. 



(J. l<(.;<t. .Nat. IliNt., IV, p. 380.) 

 Female. — Tegimient of cephalothorax reddish brown as u.'<uai, lighter 




244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



brown in a nuxlian band which may be very indistinct anteriorly, also 

 lighter along margins, with radiating light lines coiinecting middle and 

 side bands; clothed principally with light gray pubescence, which is 

 densest in a rather wide marginal band each sitle and in a middle band, 

 widening from eyes until as wide as eye area at point between eyes and 

 doi-sal groove and then suddenly narrowed to only about half as wide, 

 and from there very gradually narro^^'ing caudad ; the median band and 

 lateral band of gray on each side connected by radiating lines of same 

 color; on the sides a dark brown pubescence intermixed with the line of 

 gray and more abimdant above, below the median gra}' band . Chelicerce 

 black, the lateral condyles re<l, clothed with a dense light gray or 

 yellowish gray pubescence. Labium and endites black or dark brown- 

 black, lighter distally. Sternum and coxce of legs beneath black or dark 

 brown-black, clothed with gray and longer, stiffer tlark brown or black- 

 ish pubescence. Leys brown to yellowish, clothed with light gray to 

 brown-gray pubescence; scopiilie brown; legs without rings or markings 

 above. Ahdoyneii gray-brown from gra}' antl brown pubescence inter- 

 mi.xed, usually in fine streaks and dots; a lanceolate outline or more 

 rarely solid mark at base which is truncated or bifurcated behind ; on 

 posterior half a few more indistinct chevron-marks, each bordered 

 behind in' a light line, ending in a light spot each side; a row of tri- 

 angular tlark spots on each side behind but connected by the light 

 cross-lines. Sides of abdomen light gray, immaculate or with a few 

 sp(»ts of brown. \'enter in front of lung-slits brown or gray, often 

 black along the middle; behind lung-slits solid black or sometimes 

 witii a light central spot surrounded with black. Spinnerets brown. 

 Epigynum dark reddish brown. 



Cephalothornx high, highest a little behind third eye row, line of 

 dorsum a little convex; dorsal groove partly above and j)artly on 

 posterior declivity. Face hardly above half the length of the long and 

 massive chelicerie, the sides convex and slanting about as usual. 



Anterior nnv of eyes a little slu)rter than the second, nearly straight ; 

 anterior median eyes distinctly larger than the lateral (3 :2), less than 

 their radias apart and about the same distance from the lateral; 

 atiterif)r lateral eyes a little more than their diameter from front margin 

 of clypeiLs, scarcely closer to eyes of second row; anterior median eyes 

 less than their diameter from eyes of .second row; eyes of second row 

 less than three-fourths their diameter apart; cpuidrangle of posterior 

 eyes not fully one-fifth the length of the cej)halothorax. 



Leys mo<lerately long and stout; the posterior tarsi rather slender; 

 tibia -f patella IV shorter than cephalothorax ; patella I and II armed 




19<JS.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



in front with a spine; tibiae and metatarsi I and II armed below as 

 usual, the spines small and weak: tarsi and metatarsi I and II scopulate 

 as usual; the scopuke of tarsi III and IV dividetl by rather narrow 

 median setose bands. 



For structure of epigynum see PI. X\'I1I, fig. 8. 



Total length, 22 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 11 mm.; width, 

 7.8 mm. 



Length of leg I. 28.1 mm. ; tib. + pat.. 10 mm.; met., 6 mm. 



Length of leg II, 25.4 mm. 



Length of leg III, 25 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 32.1 mm. : tib. + pat.. 10 mm. ; met.. 9.2 mm. 



Male. — Coloration nearly a.s in female. 



Cheliceroe above witii light yellow-gray pubescence; pubescence on 

 distal portion dark, but fringe along furrow light gray. 



Patella I and II anne<l both in front and ijehind ; spines on tibiaj and 

 metatarsi I and 11 comparatively long, not reduced as in female. 

 Patella and til^ia about equal in length and stoutness, together as long as 

 the tarsus which is distinctly thicker. 



For structure of palpal organ see PI. XVIII, fig. 8. 



Total length, 20.5 nun. Length of cephalothora.x. 10.5 nun.; width, 

 S nun. 



Length of leg 1, 35.7 mm. ; tib. + pat.. 12.2 mm.; met., 8.8 mm. 



Length of leg II, 33 nun. 



Ix?ngth of leg III, 30.4 nun. 



Length of leg IV, 40 mm.; tib. + pat., 12.5 mm.; met., U.G mm. 



.S\Ti. — 1S44. Lycosn ruricola Hentz, J. Bost. Nat. Hi.st., p. 3.S7. 



1875. Lycosa lenta Heiitz, Sp. of U. 8., p. 27, PI. .3, figs. I, 2, 3, 4. 



. Lycosa ruricola Hnitz, lliid., p. 2.S, PI. 3, figs. 5, 6. 



1S90. Lycosa lenta, Marx, Pnx-. U. .S. N. M., 12. 



1.S92. Lycosa ruricola Hciitz. Nhirx, Proc. Eiit. Soc. W., II, p. 100. 



189J>. Lycom lenta Unitz, Simon, Hist. Nat. des. .Vraigii, II, p. .3.33. 



1900. Lycosa tenia Hentz, Hanks, Proc. .Vcacl. .\at. Sci. Pliila., p. .53.S. 



Localitjf. — Peimsylvania, Xortli and South Carolina. 



Kitoun localities. — Penn.sylvania, .N'orth Carolina!, South Carolina, 

 Alabama!, Georgia, Florida. 



It would seem probable that Hontz did not in all ciu^cs (li>tui;;uish 

 thi.H form from his erratica, and that his account applies partly to tiie 

 latter species. What he regarded as the typical form, however, was a 

 burrow-making spccir-s. although, like caroliiiensis, etc., found wan<lcr- 

 ing about an<l hitling under stones, for in hia discu-ssions of erratica he 

 says: "This sjwcies I formerly supposed to be a variety of L. tenia, 

 but it was always found wandering an<l never in holes. I therefore 




246 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^lay, 



consider it as perfectly distinct, having been often seen running in the 

 grass." Concerning lenta he remarks: " This common and powerful 

 species is found wandering in fields, attacking and subduing ver}- large 

 insects. The female carries her young on her back, which gives her a 

 horrible appearance. If caught or wounded the little ones escape 

 rapidly in all directions; but the mother is faithful to her duties 

 and defends her jirogeny while life endures. It hides imder stones, 

 logs, etc." 



Var. b&ltimoriana (Keyserling), 1876. 



(Sub Tarentula, Verb. z. b. Ges. Wien, 26, p. 632.) 

 Patellae and distal ends of tibiae black beneath; femora of the first 

 and second legs with a dark line along posterior side and one or two 

 similar ones above, these replaced with corresponding rows of dots 

 on posterior femora. Othenvise agreeing with type form. 



S>Ti.— 1890. Tarentula baltimoriana, Marx, Proc. U. S. X. M., 12, p. 563. 

 1902. Lycosa baltimoriana, Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 



561, PI. 29, fig. 25. 

 1904. Lycosa baltimoriana, Banks, J. N. Y. Ent. Soc, XII, p. 114. 

 . Geolycosa baltimoriana, Montgonicrv, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 



p. 297. 



Type locality. — Baltimore, Md. 



Known localities. — Rhode Island, Pennsylvania, Maryland, District 

 of Columbia, Virginia, Texas. 



I have seen too few specimens of this form to be able to determine 

 satisfactorily the validity of its rank as a variety. It is maintained 

 here as such tentatively. Females showing the variant colors are not 

 known to me personally, nor have such been reported. 



Ljcoia carolinentii Walckenaer, IS37. 

 (Insect. Apt., p. 285). 

 Female. — Tcgimient of ciphalothorax uniformly dark reddish brown 

 covered with a flense coat of brown and gray hair making it more or 

 less mouse-coloral, showing in fully grown individuals commonly no 

 distinct markings; in .some a gray s\ij)raiuarginal band on each side and 

 a similar mcilian one along tlicdorsum, widoningfrom behind anteriorly. 

 Chdicera: black, covenni with a coat of orange-yellow hairs witli more 

 Bparsc long brown l)ristle«; the dense fringe along furrow reddish 

 brown or nist colored. J^ihiurn and cmlites black, brown at tips. 

 Sternum and coxa: of legs iM-ncath black, covercfl with brown hairs. 

 Tegument of legs reddish brown, darker di.'^taliy, [)aler on ventral 

 surface of femora; on ventral surface at <listal end of femur and at 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 247 



both ends of tibia black, these dark bands covered with dark brown 

 hair; the scopuljr of same brown color, but legs elsewhere clothed with 

 much lighter hair which ir? light brownish gray to whitish. Abdomen 

 with the tegument light brown; at base a dark or blackish median 

 stripe which bifurcates at its caudal end and sends out from its sides 

 several pail's of pointe<l lines directetl caudo-laterally; behind the 

 basal stripe a series of chevron-shaped laterally and anteriorly acutely 

 pointed dark cross-marks, often a series of light dots along each side; 

 doi"sum densely covered above with long brown to grayish-brown 

 pubescence, except over the dark marks which are clothed and made 

 more distinct by black hair; sides of abdomen above dark with brown 

 and black pubescence intermixed in spots and streaks, the sides below 

 becoming paler, yellow to gray or almost white with larger but more 

 sparse black spots; venter nearly always deep brown or black, due 

 largely to the pubescence being very dense and of the latter color; 

 sometimes a light mark or spot within the light area on each side of 

 middle line, leaving three black stripes converging and uniting in front 

 of the spinnerets and unitetl by a cross-bar behind the genital furrow, 

 while in other rarer cases the reduction of the black may be carried 

 even farther. Spinnerets \)T<)\vn. Epifiyniun rcihUi^h black. 



Face in height moderate, more than iialf the length of the chelicera^; 

 sides strongly- convex and moderately slanting outward below, not so 

 steep as in scutulata. 



Anterior row of eyes nearly as long as the second, but little i^rocurvtxl ; 

 anterior median eyes not fully their.radius apart, a little farther from 

 the lateral eyes which are a little smaller; dypeus wide, the anterior 

 lateral eyes more tlian one and one-half times their diameter, or rather 

 nearer twice from its front margin, closer to eyes of second row; eyes 

 of second row not proportionately large, not nnich less than their 

 diameter apart; eyes of third row twice as far apart as from those of 

 second row; quadrangle of prjsterior eyes relatively short, l:)eing not 

 fully one-sixth the length of the cophalothorax. 



L'Jielicertc long and very robust, the margins of its furrows armcHl in 

 typical manner. Labium a little longer than wide (12.5:11.75); 

 basal excavation one-tliinl or a little more the total length: labium 

 above excavati(jns broadly rectangular, as wide above as below, the 

 sides nearly parallel and scarcely curved, anterolateral angles rounded ; 

 front nuirgin widely truncate. Lefjs long and robust; tibia -I- patella 

 IV' shorter than the cephalothorax, of same length or nearly so as 

 tibia + patella I; spines of anterior tibia? Ijeneath as usual; patella 1 

 arnl 11 c'lcli anM«-<l on tlif anterior side with a single spine; anterior tarsi 




24S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



and metatarsi beneath with dense scopular pads which extend also over 

 tibiae except at basal third or half ; scopulse of posterior legs not extend- 

 ing upon tibiae, divided as usual. 



Epiyyiium oblong, rounded anteriorly; guide inversely T-shaped 

 with the traasverse arm shorter and stouter; lateral furrows narrow 

 and of same width throughout. (PI. XXI, fig. 1.) 



Total length, 34.5 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 14 mm.; width, 

 11. mm. 



Length of leg I. 38.7 mm. ; tib. 4- pat., 13.2 mm. ; met., 8 mm. 



Length of leg II, 35 mm. 



Length of leg III, 31.7 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 42 mm.; tib. 4- pat., 13.2 mm.; met., 10.8 mm. 



Male. — Rather lighter in color than the female. Cheliceroe very 

 densely covered with grayish-yellow hair, the heavy fringe of the 

 furrow rufous. 



PatelliE of legs I and II armed both in front and behind. 



Patella and tibia of palpus of nearly same length and thickness, the 

 tibia enlarging distally; tarsus a little shorter than the two preceding 

 joints together. For structure of tai-sal organ see PI. XXI, fig. 2. 



Total length. 21 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 11.1 mm.; width 

 8.6 mm. 



Length of leg I. 35.7 mm,; tib. 4- pat., 12.2 mm.; met,, 8,3 mm. 



Length of leg II, 32.3 mm. 



Length of leg III, 2S.7 nun. 



Length of leg 1\', 40.2 nun.; til), 4- pat,, 12.3 mm.; met., 11.5 nun. 



Syn. — 1842. Lycosa c/trolinensis7, Bosc MSS., Hentz, J. IJ. Soc. N. H., 4, 



p. 230. 

 18.52. Lycona pilosa Girani, Marcv's Eixpl. Red R. of La., p. 2.52, PI. IC, figs. 



4 and .5. 

 1875. Lycom cnrnlinensisi , Bosc MS8., Hentz, 8p. of U. S., p. 27, PI. 2. fig. 9. 

 188.5. Li/rom enrol inerifsi.t Hentz, Einerton, Tr. Conn. Acad. Sei., 0, p. 4SG, 



n. 47.figs. 1 to 1/a 

 1890. Lycosa carol inrn.fis, Marx, Proc. U. S. N. M., 12, p. 561. 



. Lycosa carolinrnsis, Stone, Proc. .Vcad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 42, p. 423. 



1892. Lycoxa cnrolincn/tin, .Marx, Pror. Ent. S<ie. W., 2, p. KM). 

 . LyroHn carolincnuis, Fox, I'roc. Kut. Soc. \V., 2, p. 209. 



1894, Lycona carolinensiK, iianks, J. \. Y. Ent. Soc, 2, p. .50. 



1895. Lycoan ctirolinrnsiM, Hanks, Ann. X. V. Arad. Sci., 8, j). 429. 

 . Lycosa carol Inciviis, liank.-^, Ent. \ew.s, 0, p. 205. 



189<J. Lycosa carolinmsis, Wnnka, .1. \. Y. E. ^h\, 4, p. 192. 



1898. Lycosa camliticnsis, .Sini(»n, Hist. Nat. Araign., 2, pp. .3.T2 .'ind 347. 



I9(X). Lycosa carol irwnsis, Hank.>4, I'roe. .Aea*!. Nat. Sci I hila., p. .53.S. 



19<J2. Lycosa carolinetutis, Bank.x, Pmc A<-ad. Nat. Sci., Pliila. p. ,5.S(». 



19(J2, Lycosa carolirwrutis, Einerton, Coniinon .Sp. IT. S., p. 73, fig. 170. 



. Lycosa carolinrnxis, Montgomery, Pro<-. .\ead. Nat. Sci. Pnila., 550, 



1904. ficolucosa tcxatui .Montgomery, I'roc. .\cad. Nat. Sri. Pliila., p. 293, 



• PI. XVIII, fig.s. 1.3, 14 (color var.). 



— — . O'eolycoaa carolinemns, Montgomery, ibid., p. 299. . 




1908.] XATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 249 



Type locality. — " Carolina." 



Known localities. — Xew Hampshire!, Massachusetts;, Rhode Island!, 

 Connecticut, New York!, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, District of 

 Columbia!, North Carolina!, Cleorcia, Alabama. Florida, Louisiana. 

 Mississippi!, Texas K Kansas!, Indiana, Colorado, Utah!. 



Our largest Lycosa, much resembling in its large size and in colora- 

 tion the famous Tarentula of southern Europe and its close allies. 

 Specimens from the Southwest often differ from the typical forai in 

 having the venter in part pale as above described. 



"This spider has the same habits a.^ L. jatijcra, making deep excava- 

 tions in the ground. It is frecjuently found under stones, and possibly 

 it is in such places, nearer the surface, that the eggs are hatched. The 

 female carries her young on her back, presenting a hideous aspect, 

 being then apparently covered with animated warts. The little 

 monsters have the iastinct, if the mother is much disturbed, to escape 

 and scatter in all directions. The male, not unfrequently of an 

 enonnous size, is often foimd wandering in October and No\ember in 

 Alabama, and sometimes enters houses" (Hentz). Concerning its 

 habits in Xew England, Emorton says: "This species digs a hole six 

 or eight inches deep, but is often found under stones or running in 

 fields and occasionally in houses all over New England." 



This species is common in Utah, where the males are frequentlv 

 seen wandering in the open or hiding under stones. The females dig 

 deep burrows which are sometimes surmounted with turrets, but not 

 so commonly so as in the case of fatifera. 



Lyco*a coloradentis Bankx. 1894. 

 (J. .\. V. Ent..Soc.,p. .50.) 

 Female. — Tegument of cephalothorax retldish Ijrown, densely clothed 

 with puljescence which nearly completely masks the ground color. A 

 nuMlian light band a.s wide anteriorly jls the eye area, but al)ruptly nar- 

 rowe<l at dorsal groove to only half that width or less ; this meilian band 

 formed of brown-gray pubescence, often mixetl anteriorly with darker 

 pubescence which obscures t lie distinctness of the band. Sides of cepha- 

 lothorax clotlie<l withilark. bnnvnish tograyish black pul)escence, mixetl 

 with gray like that of me<lian band, the gray pre<lominating, principally 

 arranged in wide radiating hands and l)econiing more abundant Ih'Iow. 

 where it forms on each side a marginal band which is widest anteri<irly 

 where it nearly touches eye area. Chclicenv with tegument blackish or 

 rc«ldi«h black, coinplet<*ly ninske<l on tipper half with <lense puljescencc 

 • if rusty brown color, that of lower half dark and very sparse, paler 




250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Ma}', 



along furrow of chelicerce. iMbium and endites black or nearly so, 

 lighter at tips. Sternum and coxne of legs beneath black or nearly so. 

 Femora of legs beneath liglit gray, the tibiae and more especially the 

 tarsi and metatarsi darker brown because of scopulfe, the ends of 

 femora and of last four tibise black; above the femora a little darker 

 than below, brown, but distal joints no darker, no bands at end of any 

 joints sho^^^ng above. Legs densely clothed \\ith pubescence which 

 give the colors as above, the tegument itself being reddish brown above 

 and much paler, yellowish, beneath except at ends of femora and last 

 two pairs of tibiae which are black. Abdomen vnth middle of dorsum 

 light brown or grayish brown, a dark brown basal lanceolate mark 

 with its margins deeper, its points behind terminating in the apex 

 of a dark chevron-mark, which is followed behind by several other 

 chevrons. The lanceolate mark giving off laterally most com- 

 monly two pairs of lines running latero-caudally on each side; side of 

 dorsum dark brown or blackish with numerous small light dots and 

 enclosing on each side a series of large light spots along sides of chevrons, 

 and at outer ends of the lines from basal mark an ocellate light spot 

 contiguous with each side of basal spear-mark near its middle. Upper 

 portion of sides dark brown to black with numerous light spots and 

 darker, below the sides are gray with dark brown or black spots. 

 \'ent€r in front of lung-slits and in a smaller spot at base of spinnerets 

 black, elsewhere gray, with or without small dots of black. Spinnerets 

 dark brown. Epifujnum black or reddish black. 



Cephalothorax behind rather low ; in profile higiiest at third eye row 

 or a little beliind it. a little depressed or notched at dorsal groove. Face 

 low, one-half in height the length of the chelicerap. 



Front row of eye^ shorter than second ; eyes of first row veiy nearly 

 equal in size: eyes of second row three-fourths their diameter apart; 

 anteri(jr lateral eyes their iliameter from eyes of second row, closer 

 still to front margin of clypeus; quadrangle of posterior eyes one-fifth 

 the length of the cephalothorax. 



Ixjg 1\' less than three times the length of the cephalothorax; tibia 

 -I- patella IV shorter than cephalothorax, longer than metatarsus; 

 metatarsus I\' nearly of same Icniith tib. + pat. I; metatai-si and 

 tarsi 1 and II scopulat^; tarsi 111 and IV with wide setose bands 

 dividing scopula*. Tibia* I and II armed as usual. Patella II armed 

 in front with a single spine. 



lor .>itructure of cpitji/tium .^ee I'l. Will, fig. G. 



Total length, 18 mm. Ix?ngth of cephalothorax, s niiii.: width, 

 6 mm. 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 251 



Length of leg I, 18.4 nun. ; tib. + pat., 5.9 mm.; met., 4 mm. 



Length of leg II, 17.8 mm. 



Length of leg III. 17.3 nmi. 



Length of leg I\', 22.5 mm.; tib. + pat., 7.2 mm.; met., 6 mm. 



^fale. — Coloration similar to female; pattern on abdomen rather 

 more distinct and spots on sides fewer. 



Patella I and II armed both in front and behind. Tibia and patella 

 of palpus subequal in length and thickne.ss, together as long as tarsus; 

 tarsus much thicker than preceding joints. 



For structure of palpal organ see PI. XVIII, fig. 7. 



Total length, 13.3 mm. Length of cephalothora.\, 6.7 mm.; width, 

 5 mm. 



Length of leg I. 23.6 mm.; tib. + pat., 8.1 mm.; met., 5.9 mm. 



Length of leg II, 21.8 mm. 



Length of leg III, 19.3 mm. 



Length of leg I\', 26.3 mm.; tib. + pat., 8.1 mm.; met., 7.6 mm. 



Type locality. — Colorado. 



Known localities. — Colorado!, Arizona!, New Mexico, Kansas!. 



Lycosa erratica Uentz, 1842. 



i^4 (Journ. Bo.st. Soc. Nat. Hist., 4, p. 3S8.) 



Female. — Sides of cephalothorax blackish brown, lass conmionly paler; 

 a re<ldish yellow or reddish brown median band, narrowest behind, 

 which wideiLS distinctly at p(jsteri(jr end of pars cephalica and becomes 

 as wide as third eye row, from which point it contracts to a narrow 

 stripe or line which continues forward to the first eye row; along each 

 lateral margin a light band similarly colored to the median one, the 

 lateral bantls bisected by a dark line at least anteriorly; the median 

 pale band clothed with light gray or brownish-white pubescence which 

 between the eyes becomes yellowish, the lateral bands similarly clothed ; 

 sides of cephalothorax clotheil with similar hair intermi.\e<l with nuich 

 black which is most al)undant along each side of the median band, but 

 becomes more and more sparse below toward the margins. Chclicerce 

 dark ro<ldish brown, cl»)tlie<l with short yellowish pubescence and with 

 int('niii.\e<l lunger black Ijristles, a fringe of long dark gray hair along 

 tlie margin of furrow. Labium and endilts reddish brown. StiTnum 

 blar-kish, with usually a paler me<lian stripe; clothe<l with grayish 

 brown an<l more scattere<l blackish hairs. Legs and jxilpi brown 

 covereil with a short brownisli gray pubescence with the usual longer 

 blackish hairs intermi.xcHl ; all femora with dark cro.ss-bands or anmila- 

 tions which are present also at the ends and in the middle of the tarei 




252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



and metatarsi and at the middle of the patellae of the posterior jiaii-s. 

 but whioli are not present on those joints of the anterior pail's; the 

 dark annuli on the femora mostly incomplete below; the anterior and 

 posterior face of each femur commonly with a longitudinal l^laek line 

 or stripe. Abdotncn with a wide pale band over the doi-sum, narrowing 

 usually to a point at the spinnerets; within the pale l)and at base a dark, 

 black-edged, lanceolate mark which extends to or often much beyond 

 the middle, ending usually in a forked apex and followed behind usually 

 by a triangular mark and several dark cross-lines; at other times the 

 basal stripe ends acutely; less commonly it is entirely absent; sides of 

 doi"sum laterad of light band dark brown enclosing a series of large 

 angular black spots; sides above brown becoming lighter below, usually 

 marked with numerous small black spots ; venter whitish or light yellow, 

 without spots, but in the great majority of cases marked by a black 

 U-shaped stripe, each arm of which has its end behind a lung-slit, the 

 bent middle part being at the spinnerets, the arm of the U-shaped 

 band often connected by a cross-band behind the genital furrow; 

 sometimes the venter is entirely pale without any markings. Epiyij- 

 num reddish brown. Spinnerets smoky brown to black. 



Face moderate in height,, the chelicera^ al)out one and three-fom-ths 

 times as long; sides convex and moderately divergent below. Anterior 

 row of eyes moderately procui*ved, shorter than the second by twice the 

 diameter of a lateral eye; anterior median eyes their radius apart, 

 closer to the smaller lateral eyes; anterior lateral eyes their diameter 

 from eyes of second row, a little farther from margin of clypeus; eyes of 

 second row their diameter apart, not much farther from the three- 

 fourths as large eyes of the third row ; eyes of third row twice as far from 

 each other as from eyes of second row ; cephalothorax rather less than 

 five times the length of tho cephalothorax. Cheliccrce armefl as usual, 

 the thinl tooth (»f lower margin of furrow a little reduced. I^ibium 

 much longer than wide (16 : 12.5); basal excavation of usual length; 

 sides evenly convexly cur\'e<l from excavations to anterior angles; 

 front margin truncate. Lcfis long, the distal joints slender, especially 

 80 the posterior metatarsi ; tibia + patella IV longer than cephalothorax 

 which is longer than tibia -f- patella I; anterior tibi.T with s])incs as 

 usual; scopuhi' of tarsi as usual, those of anterior |)aii"s extending also 

 upon metatarsi except at base; patella II armed w itliin. 



Ends of transverse arms of guide of rpifn/nutn almost always char- 

 acteristically excavate<l on anterior side of (-nds (I'l. .W'll, hg. li). 



Total length, 14 mm. Ix'ngth of cephalothorax, 5.4 mm.; width, 

 4 mm. 



I 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 253 



Length of log I. 14.6 mm.; tib. 4- pat., 5 mm. ; met., 2.9 mm. 



Length of leg II, 13.9 mm. 



Length of leg III, 13.2 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 19.3 mm. ; tib. + pat., 5.9 mm. ; met., 4.9 mm. 



Male. — Coloration as in female but rather l)righter. 



For structure of palpal organ see PI. X\'II, fig. 4. 



Syn. — 1844. Lycosa sagittatn Hentz. 



1846. Lycosa propinqua Blackwall, 1846 (Ann. and Mag. X:it. Hist., Vol. 

 XVII. pp. .31,32). 



1875. L)/rosa erroticn Hcntz, Sp. U. S. (Burgess) p. 29, PI: 3, fig. 8. 



1876. Tareniula lepida Keyserling, 'S'erh. z. b. Ges. Wien, 26, p. 631, PI. 7, 

 fig. 15. 



1877. Tareniula scalaris, Thorell, Bull. U. S. Geol. Surv. Terr., Ill, No. 2, 

 p. 520. 



1885. Lycosa communis Emerton, Trans. Conn. Acad. Sci., 6, p. 489. 



1890. Lycosa erraticn. Marx. Proc. U. ^ N. M., 12, p. 561. 

 . Lycosa communis. Marx. loc. cit. 



. Lycosa communis. Stone, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Pliila., 42, p. 426. 



1891. Lycosa erratica. Banks. Ent. Xews. 2, p. 86. 



1892. Lycosa communis, Marx, Proc. Ent. Soc. W.. 2, n. 160. 



. Lycosa communis. Banks, Proc. .\ca»l. Xat. Sci. Pliila., 44, p. 64. 



. Lycosa communis. Vox, Proc. Ent. Soc. W'., 2. p. 269. 



1895. Lycosa erratica Banks, J. X. V. Ent. Soc. \'ol. 3, p. 91. 



. Lycosa erratica. Banks, Ent. X'cws, 6, p. 205. 



1898. Lycosa erratica, Simon. Hist. X^at. .Araigii.. 2, p. 331. 



1900. Lycosa erratica. Banks, Proc. .Vcad. Xat. Sci. Pliila., p. 5.3.S. 



1902. Lycosa communis, Emerton, Common Sp. of U. S.. p. 75, figs. ISl. 182. 



. Lifcosn lepida, Montgomery. Proc. .Vcad. Xat. Sci. Pliila., p. 562, PI. 29, 



figs. 26, 27. 



1904. Lycosa lepida, Montgomery, Proc. .\cad. X^at. Sci. Phila., p. 287. 



Type locality. — Mas.'^achusetts and Alabama. 



Known localities. — Massachii.sett.s !. Connecticut, RiuMle Lsland!, New 

 Ilampsjiire!, New York!, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Di.strict of 

 Columbia!. Ala})ama, Louisiana!, Texas, Georgia!, North Carolina!, 

 Ohio, Illinois, Iowa!, Kansas!. Colorado!, Arizona!, Utah!, Montana!, 



I do not think there is room for doubt that the species above de- 

 scribe<l is the real erratica of Hentz, when one considers the alxiominal 

 markings shown in his figure, in coimection with his (■f)mmonts on 

 habits and the localities where he found it common. 



Hentz says concerning this species that it "was always found 

 wandering anrl never in holes; .... it was often seen, generally 

 running in the grass." This is a vciy common and widely distributtxl 

 specief', founfl imder stones and logs in the woods and especially in 

 grassy meadows. It is subject to nuich variation in size, though its 

 characteristic markings are rarely mi.s.s(sl. 



LyooiR soatalata Menti. 1842. 



(Journ. B<wt. S<^)c. Xat. Hist., TV, p. .300.) 



Female. — Ccphnlothnrai with a dark chocolate-eolured band each 

 17 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



side of the middle line which is witlest behind and narrowing fonvard 

 is prolonged over the eyes of the corresponding side to the front margin 

 of the clypeus, and in young specimens continues down the chelicerie of 

 the same side to near its distal end; these bands are covered with a 

 blackish pubescence with intermixed lighter yellowish hail's; between 

 these dark bands is a narrower yellowish-brown median band which is 

 much constricted between the last two rows of eyes, but expands again 

 upon the face before reaching the margin of clypeus, this band clothed 

 with yellowish-gray pubescence, clear yellow in front; the sides of 

 cephalothorax below dark bands colored and clothai similarly to 

 metlian band with below a chocolate-colored submarginal line. Chcli- 

 cerce reddish brown coveretl with yellowish or grayish-yellow ])ubescence 

 at the distal end, within along the femora a fringe of longer hair of 

 somewhat rusty tinge. Labium reddish brown, clothed with a grayish 

 or tawny pubescence with intermixed longer, stiffer black hair. Ster- 

 num, endites and coxce of legs beneath light brown. Legs and pajpi 

 light brown, the tarsi and metatarsi mostly darker, as also the tibia) 

 at distal ends; the femora with some rather faint longitudinal darker 

 lines clothed with tawny pubescence \vith intermixed hair of blackish 

 color, the longer ones of the latter pale on distal halves. Abdomen 

 with a broad blackish median band extending the entire length nar- 

 rowed from near middle towards each end, this band coveretl with 

 int«rmixal dark brown and blackish pubescence, the band indentated 

 with a brownish-yellow notch on each side in front of middle and 

 behind either with a series of similar indentations of 3'ellow or enclosing 

 corresponding pail's of submarginal spots; each side of median band a 

 narrow brownish l)and ai)peai'ing yellow because coveretl by a dense 

 coat of yellowish pulK'scence; sides with tegument brown, sheathed 

 with lines of blackish-brown and yellowish pubescence above, paler 

 yellow with })Iack spots below. Tegument of venter brown, densely 

 clothcnl with yellow pubescence and with small spots of lilack jnibes- 

 ccnce, mostly arrangctl over one or two j)airs of darker lines converging 

 toward the spinnerets. Spinnerets rather dark l)rovvn. Epigymim 

 blackish. 



Smaller specimens are paler, and the venter may be without spots 

 and unmarke<l except for faint indications of the posteriorly converging 

 lines. 



Cephalotftordx highest at third row of eyes, doi'sal line in profile a 

 little depres.se<l at front of median groove. Face high, two-thirds aa 

 high as chelicene are long, in profile slightly convex and protrudes a 

 little above. Anterior row of cijch procurv(Kl, .sliorter than the second 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255 



by twice their diameter; eyes subequal in size and nearly equidistant, 

 being separatetl from each other by a space rather less than their 

 radius; anterior lateral eyes more than their diameter from the front 

 margin of clypeus, closer to the eyes of second row; eyes of second row 

 large, less than their diameter apart; eyes of third row two-thirds as 

 large as those of the second, nearly twice as far from each other as 

 from eyes of second row; cephalothorax five times as long as quad- 

 rangle of posterior eyes. Margins of furrow of the chelicera} armed 

 as usual, the third tooth of the lower margin a little reduced. Labium 

 much longer than wide (19 : 16); basal excavation one-tliird the total 

 length or rather longer; sides below straight and subparallcl to 

 middle, then straight and converging to angles in front; front margin 

 ver\' gently convex laterally and indented at middle. Legs long and 

 slender; the posterior tarei slender and nearly as long as tibia -|- 

 patella; all tarsi densely scopulat€, the scopul.'c clearly divided on 

 posterior pairs by a narrow median setose band, on the anterior pairs 

 the scopuhe extend also upon the metatarsi entirely to the base and 

 even upon the tibia* distally. 



For structure of epigynum see PI. XVII, fig. 0. 



Total length, 21.5 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 10 mm.; width, 

 7.G nun. 



Length of leg I, 32.6 mm. ; tib. 4- pat., 10. S nun. ; met.. 7.S nun. 



Length of leg II, 28.4 mm. 



I.«ength of leg III, 21.7 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 38.8 mm. ; tib. + pat., 12.2 mm. ; met., 11.8 mm. 



Male. — Front pair of legs dark reddish brown to black, excepting 

 tarsus and proximal end of fenuir, above whicii are ligiiter; other legs 

 light brown. Anterior half of median dorsal stripe of abdomen 

 black and distinctly darker than posterior half. Venter gray, immacu- 

 late. Chclicerm brown with yellow pubescence. 



Patella I and II armed in front an<l behind. 



For structure of palpus see PI. XVIII, fig. 1 . 



Total length, 11 nun. Length of cephalothorax, 6 mm.; width, 

 4.7 mm. 



Length of h'ji I. 21 .6 nun. ; til). + pat., 7.2 nun. ; met.. 5.6 nmi. 



lycngth f)f leg II, 20.5 iiuu. j 



I/cngth of leg III, 17.8 nun. 



Ix>ngth of leg I\'. 25.8 mm. ; tib. + pat., 7.7 mm.; met., 8.1 mm. 



Hyn. — ISTA. Lyrosti Mrutiilota. 



1875. Lyconn Hculnlitta. 



1890. LycoMitnitula(nMnrx,Vroc.V.H.S.M.,\l\,p.r)GX 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^lay, 



1890. Lycosn scutulata Hentz, Stone, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 427. 

 1892. Lycosa scutulata Hentz, Hanks, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1892, 

 p. 66. 



. Lycosa sciUulata Marx, Hentz, Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., II, p. 160. 



1895. Lycosa snttulata Hentz, l^anks, J. N. Y. Ent. Soc, Vol. Ill, p. 91. 

 . Ltfcosa scutulata Hentz, Hanks, Ent. News, IV, p. 20.5. 



1897. Lycosa scutulata Hentz, Hanks, Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., Vol. IV, p. 189. 



1898. Lycosa scutulata Hentz, Banks, Proc. Col. Acad. Sci., 3d ser., Zool., 

 Vol.1 p. 268. 



. Lycosa scutulata Hentz, Simon, Hist. Nat. Araign., Vol. IT, pp. 329, 



330, 346. 

 1900. Lycosa scutulata Hentz, Hanks, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 538. 

 1902. Lycosa scutulata Hentz, Emerton, Common Sp. of U. S., p. 76. 

 . Lycosa sctttitlata Hentz, Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 



p. 553. 

 1904. Lycosa scutulata Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 289. 



Type location. — Alabama. 



Known localities. — Alabama, North Carolina!, Georgia!, Florida, 

 Loui-siana!, Mississippi, Texa.s, Connecticut, New York!, Pennsylvania, 

 New Jersey. District of Columbia, Ohio, Indiana!, lUinois, Iowa!, 

 Kansas !. 



Hentz remarks as follows concerning Lycosa scutulata after his 

 original description: "This common and very distinct species attains 

 a very large stature. It is most commonly found wandering in quest 



of prey Tiie cocoon is verj^ large, spherical and whitish, 



containing from 150 to 200 eggs, which hatch before tlie cocoon is 

 opened. The yellow spots on the abdomen seem to be wanting in the 

 yoimg" iSp. U. S., p. 32). 



Ljoosa pnnctalata Hentz, 1842. 



(J. Host. .Sjc. N. Hist., 4, p. 390.) 

 Ceplialothorax light brown, with each side oi the middle a blackish- 

 brown stripe which runs forward over eyes of the corresponding side 

 and reaches the front margin of the clypeus as a much narrower line, 

 also on each side a very narrow marginal and a wider submarginal 

 blackish line; the nunlian liglit band is narrower than the dark bands 

 enclosing it; between the eyes of the third and second row it is nar- 

 rowed to a line but widens again above eyes of first row; the dark 

 bands of ceplialothorax arc clothed with dark somewhat smoky-])rown 

 pubeficence, the light regions covere<l with a grayish-brown pubes- 

 cence about the eyes are longer. Chclicerce black, rlotlie<l with short 

 light yellowish pubescence and souie mostly very long blackisji bristles; 

 at the distal end within along tlie furrow a fringe of long yellow or 

 rusty yellow hairs. iMbium and enditcs dark reddish brown; light 

 distally. Sternum black, riotlic*! with grayi.sh-i)rown pubescence. 

 Cox(t flark re<l(ii.sh brown. Arys elsewhere brown; tlie distal ends of 




1908.] NATURAL SCIPLN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 257 



the tibiae and metatarsi of the last legs usually darker, legs otherwise 

 without markings ; covered with a very stout pale pubescence and with 

 longer straight blackish bristles which are deaser than in scutulata; 

 the longer brl'^tles appear paler distally as in scutulata. Tegument in 

 general brown, blackish brown along a wide metlian band extending the 

 entire length of the abdomen, the band widest in middle, covered by 

 intermixed " black and deep brown pubescence with longer black 

 bristles; margin of middle black band smooth, not broken by indenta- 

 tions or enclosed lighter spots; the black pubescence more dense at 

 borders of its me<lian band, the brown over its middle; each side of mid- 

 dle band a grayish-brown stripe; exterior to gray stripes the sides are 

 coloretl with brown and grayish brown intermingled in spots and 

 streaks, the brown often solid at the antero-lateral angles ; sides below 

 and the venter gray with very small spots of black, the venter with a 

 variable number of larger black spots, sometimes also with one or 

 more continuous dark patches. EpUjynum dark redtlish brown to 

 black. Spinnerets brown. 



Cepfuilotliorax narrow, highest behind second row of eyes; sides 

 rather weakly rounded, high, with the sitles steep. Face high, rather 

 more than two-thirds as high as the clielicene are long, the sides steep 

 and l)ut moderately convex. Anterior row of eyes moderately 

 strongly procurved, shorter than second row by about twice the 

 diameter of an anterior eye; anterior median eyes their rmlius apart, 

 farther from the slightly smaller lateral eyes; anterior lateral eyes 

 scarcely their diameter from the front margin of the clypeus, much 

 farther from the eyes of the second row; eyes of the second row less than 

 their diameter apart; eyes of third row about two-thirds as large as 

 those of the second; quadrangle of posterior eyes one-fifth as long as 

 cephalothorax. Chelicenc arrutHl as usual. 



Legs long and uKxlerately slender, the last tarsi slender but not pro- 

 portionately long; all femora conspicuously flattene<l laterally, each 

 of the tw(j posterior ones on each side concavattnl behind and bent 

 conspicuously backward, the two anterior ones concavatcd in front 

 side and bent forward; anterior tibiie and metatarsi arme<l beneath as 

 usual, all tarsi densely scopulate beneath, the jjosterior ones clearly 

 bisecte<l by a narrow me<lian setose band; the anterior metatarsi also 

 scopulate for most of the entire distance to their ba-^es, but the posterior 

 metatarsi not at all scopulate. 



For stnicture of epigifnum sec IM. Will, fig. 2. 



Total length, in. I iiiMi. Length of cephalothorax. 7 mm.; width, 

 5 mm. 




25S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^lay, 



Length of leg I, 20 mm. ; tib. + pat., 7.4 mm.; met., 4 mm. 



Length of leg II, 17.9 mm. 



Length of leg III, 16.6 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 22.6 mm. ; tib. + pat., 7.5 mm. ; met., 6.6 mm. 



Male. — Chelicene black, covered, but not densely, with black pubes- 

 cence; fringe along furrow pale rufous. Legs yellowish or pale brown, 

 the jointis beyond patella of anterior pairs darker, reddish brown; 

 distal ends of tibia and metatarsus of leg IV darker blackish. The 

 hair (jf middle stripe of dorsum of abdomen, except black margins, is 

 ruft)us or nearly so, the light stripes bounding it are made by golden- 

 yellow hair. \'enter with a wide median black band, which is widest 

 at its anterior end where it spreads out back of lung-slits. 



Patella I and II armed both in front and behind. 



For structure of palpal organ see PI. XVIII, fig. 3. 



Total length, 15 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 7.3 mm.; width, 

 5.5 mm. 



Length of leg I, 23.2 mm.; tib. + pat., 8.4 mm.; met., 5 mm. 



Length of leg II, 21.9 mm. 



Length of leg III, 18.6 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 29 mm.; tib. + pat., 9 mm.; met., 9 mm. 



Syti. — 1842. Lycosa punctulata Hentz, J. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist p. 390. 

 1875. Lycosa punclulala Hontz, Spiders of U. S., p. 31, PI. 3, figs. 16, 17. 

 1885. Lycosa punctulata, Eincrton, Tran.'*. Conn. Ac, IX, p. 490. 

 1890. Lycosa punctulata, Marx, Proc. U. S. N. M. 12, p. 563. 



Xon.-SjTi. . Lycosa punctulata Hentz, Stone, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 



Phila. 

 1892. Lycosa punctulata, Banks, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



. Lycosa punctulata, Hentz, Fox, Proc. Ent. Soc. W., 2, p. 269. 



. Lycosa punctulata, Marx, Proc. Ent. Soc. Wasli., II, p. 160. 



1895. Lycosa punctulata. Bank.-*, J. N. Y. Ent. Soc, 3, p. 91. 



19(X). Lycosa punctulata, Ikmk.s, Proc .\cad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., p. 538. 



HM)2. Lycosa punctulata, .Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., p. 552. 



19<J4. Lycosa punctulata, Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 288. 



Tijpe location. — Pennsyl vania. 



Knoicnlocalities. — Pennsylvania, North Carolina !, Georgia !, Alabama, 

 Florida, Louisiana!, Mississippi!, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode 

 Island !, Indiana!, Ohio. 



Lyooia frondicola Emerton, 1885. 



(TranH. Conn. Acad. Sci., 6, p. 484, PI. 40, figs. 3 to 3b.) 

 Fem/tlc. — Sides of ccphalolhorax dark brown aljovc, lighter toward 

 margin; a median light brown band which is widest just behind the 

 eye area, where it Is wider than the tiiird idw; from there it very 

 gradually narrows raudally and anteriorly pa-sses broa*!!}' between the 

 eyes of the third row to thos(! of the second; the median band in life 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



dea^iely dothecl ^\ith light gray pubescence; sides of cephalothorax 

 clotheil with mixed black and gray pubescence, the gray predominating, 

 increasing in abundance from above below and finally forming a narrow 

 marginal light gray stripe in which the hair is unmixe<l with any 

 black. Chelicer(e black, clotheil over basal portion with light brown 

 pubescence, distally with black. Labium and endite^ dark reddish or 

 blackish brown, lighter at tips. Sternum and coxcr of legs beneath 

 dark reddi.sh-brown to black, the coxae somewhat paler basally; 

 clothed with black hair. Legs brown or refldish brown with some 

 dark annulationson the femora, which may be indistinct and which are 

 commonly incomplete above and below; the patella*, tibia? and meta- 

 tarsi of the posterior pairs of legs also normally annulate with dark, 

 the patellae showing one ring, the tibiae two and the metatarsi three; 

 the anterior legs not marked beyond the femora; legs densely clothed 

 with gray pubescence, longer black hairs sparse. Abdomen above 

 grayish brown, the pubescence being mixed gray and brown, the gray 

 sometimes arranged over entire dorsum in minute spots and streaks; 

 black pubescence over two angular spots close together in front of 

 middle, these spots forming the angular lateral portion of an else- 

 wliere faint basal lanceolate outline which bifurcates at its posterior 

 end; a number of less distinct dark transverse chevron-lines behind; 

 a Ijlack band or spot crossing over each -antero-lateral angle caudally, 

 with pubescence of same color, this band di.s.solving in the gray and 

 brown pubescence behind; sides of abdomen light brown, densely 

 covere<l with gray and brown pu})escencc, these sometimes uniformly 

 mingletl but more commonly intermixed in numerous small spots and 

 streaks; venter with a wide median band of black back of spinnerets, 

 the edges of which are uneven, this l^and frecjuently occupying the 

 entire venter; at times the dark band is entirely ab-sent. Epupjnum 

 reddish brown. Spinnerets brown. 



Face low and wide, in height less than half the length of the ciielicerae, 

 sides roumled and strongly slanting. Dorsal line of cephalothorax 

 highest between tliird eye row and dorsal groove, being convex lx?tween 

 eyes and the posterior declivity. 



Anterior row of eyes but slightly procurveti, nearly or quit<? as wide 

 as the second; anterior median eyes their ra<litis apart, closer to the 

 somewhat smaller lateral eyes; anterior lateral eyes one and one-half 

 times their <liamet<»r from the front margin of clypeus, less than their 

 diameter from eyes of .second row; eyes of second row coa^'iderably 

 le?<s than their diameter apart; eyes of third row more than twice a** far 

 from each other as from eyes of second row; qua<iraugle of posterior 

 eyes a little more than one-sixth as long as the cephalothorax. 




260 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF \}^^y t 



ChdicercE massive; margins of furrow armecl as usual. Labium a 

 little longer than wide (16 :15); ba^al excavation as usual; attenu- 

 ated anteriorly, the sides below well rounde<l convexly, straight above; 

 front margin incurved or concave for it^ entire length. Legs strong, 

 moderately slender distally; tibia + patella IV evidently shorter than 

 the cephalothorax, the metatarsus a little longer than or nearly of the 

 same length as the width of the cephalothorax; tai-si and metatarsi I 

 and II scopulate beneath, tarsi III and IV as usual; spines of anterior 

 tibiae as usual; patella II armed anteriorly. 



Side ridges and furrows of the epigynum are of the usual form; the 

 guide is of the inversely T-shaped form, the septal piece is enlarged or 

 widened at its middle, being thus more or less fusiform, being narrow 

 adjacent to the transverse arms; traasverse piece as long as or a little 

 longer than the median, its arms passing well out laterally behind the 

 lateral tubercles and being scarcely confined at the ends ; guide plates 

 along front of tranverse arms narrow, even more so upon posterior end 

 of septum where they fade out (PI, XVIII, fig. 4), 



Total length, 18 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 6.5 mm.; width, 

 4.7 mm. 



Ivcngth of leg I, 14.6 mm. ; tib. + pat., 5.3 mm. ; met., 3.1 mm. 



Length of leg II, 13.9 mm. 



Ivcngth of leg III, 12.6 mm.' 



Length of leg IV, 18.5 mm. ; tib. + pat., 5.8 mm. ; mot., 5 mm, 



Male. — Cephalothorax in color nearly as in the female. Legs lighter. 

 Abdomen with the black bands over the antero-lateral angles more 

 distinctly continuing caudally as a dark band along sides of dorsum, 

 this band behind frequently breaking up into oblique lines and spots; 

 abdomen otherwise as in the female. 



Patella I and II armed both in front and behind. 



Apical portion of tarsus of palpus evidently shorter than the 

 bulb, acute; auricle large and i)r()a<l, the terminal |iart of embolus 

 lying in it clearly expose<l; tenaculum at base horizontal and rather 

 stout, then bent forward rather abruptly and becoming very slender. 

 (PI, Will, fig, 5.) 



Total length, 10 mm. Lnigtli <»f cephalothorax, 5.2 nun.; width, 

 4 mm. 



Ivcngth of leg 1 . 14.1 mm.; til). + pat., 4.9 mm.; met., 3.2 mm. 



IxMigth of leg II, 12,6 mm. 



I><'Mgth of leg III, II. 5 mm. 



Length of leg 1\', 15.7 mm.; til), -f pat., 5 nun.; met., 4.S mm. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 261 



Syn.— 1877. Tareniula modesta Thorell, Bull. U. S. G. S. Terr., 3, No. 2, p. 



520 (name preoccupied by inodeda Ivejs.). 



1885. Lycofsa nigroventris Emerton, Tr. Conn. Acad. Sci., 6, p. 4SS, PI. 47, 



figs. 5 to 5h. 



1890. Tareniula pudens Marx, Proc. U. S. N. M., 12, p. 564. 



. Lycoaa frondicnln, Marx, ibid., p. .561. 



. Lycosa frondicola. Stone,' Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila.,.42, p. 426. 



1892. Lycosa frondicola, Marx, Proc. Ent. Soc. W., 2, p. 160. 



. Lycosa frondicola. Fox, op. cil., p. 269. 



. Lycosa frondicola, Bank.s, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 44, p. 64. 



1894. Lycosa modesta, Hank.s, J. N. Y. E. Soc, 2, p. 50. 



1895. Lycosa modesta, Bank.s, Ann. X. Y. .Vc. Sci., 8, p. 429. 

 . Lycosa frondicola, Bank.s, J. N. Y. Ent. Soc. 3, p. 91. 



1902. Lycosa frondicola, Montgomery, Proc. Acacl. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 561, 



PI. 30. fips.2.S, 29. 

 1904. Trochosa frondicola, Montgomery, ibid., p. 306. 



Type locality. — Massachusetts. 



Known localities. — Massachusetts!, New Hampshire!, Connecticut, 

 Rhode Island !, Xew York, New Jersey, Penn-sylvania, District of 

 Cohunbial, ( )hi<j, Indiana, Ulinoi.s, Iowa!, Kansas!, Montana!, Utah!, 

 Colorado!, Arizona!. 



From a study of specimens from various places in the West, I am 

 convinced that the specie.s described by Thorell from Colorado as 

 Tareniula modesta is the same as the Eastern L. frondicola, and Thorell's 

 name would have to be used exce[)t that it is preoccupied by Keyser- 

 ling's species. In 18'J0 Marx proposed the name pudens to take the 

 place of modesta; but as the species had been described by Emerton in 

 1885 as frotulicola, the latter name must stand. A study of the male 

 specimen upon which L. nigrovcntri^jk'as based convinces me that it 

 is the same as frondicola. 



L. frondicola is a widely distributefl species, connnon especially in 

 the central, northern and mountaiiKJUS parts of the United States. It 

 is found mast frequently in and at the edges of woods, among fallen 

 leaves and sticks. Specimens from the dryer parts of the West, as 

 with various other species, show a tendency to lose the dark coloration, 

 especially that of the venter. Some specimens have the venter entirely 

 pale. 



Lyooia prat«nsit Kmerton, 1885. 



(Truiw. Conn. Acjul., VI, p. 4.S3, PI. XIA 1, ligH. 4, 4a, 46.) 

 Frmnlc. — A wide me<lian light band, wid(>st between third eye row 

 and dorsal groove, and from there narrowing backwartl to end of 

 cffilvilnthorax, commonly constrictcnl or indente<l at groove, also 

 narrowing and passing forward between eyes of third row and reaching 

 those of second row. T<'gument of middle band light re<ldLsh brown 

 clothf ' witli yellfjwish or lirownish-jfray pul^escence, usually two dark 




262 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May> 



longitudinal lines in wide part in front of doreal groove; on each side, 

 at a distance above margin greater than its own width, a narrow light 

 band colore<.l like the median one; elsewhere the tegument deep brown, 

 clothed mostly with dark to blackish-brown pubescence, with grayish 

 intermixed. Chelicerce dark reddish brown with grayish-l)rown pubes- 

 cence. Jjahium and endites dark brown, inclined to be lighter at tips. 

 Sternum reddish brown, sparsely clothed with a few short hairs of light 

 color and more numerous long l^ristles of black. Cox(.c of legs beneath 

 brown, grayish-yellow pubescence much more abundant than on ster- 

 num. Legs brown, darker dlstally, at least femora with rather faint 

 darker rings, which on the two anterior pairs are most distinct on the 

 meso-caudal aspect and on the two posterior pairs on the meso-cephalic 

 aspect; clothed with shorter gra}dsh-yellow pubescence and longer 

 blackish or blackish-brown hair. Abdomen in general color reddish 

 brown, lighter beneath; above with a complicated pattern of black 

 lines, in part as follows : at base a lanceolate outline, giving off on each 

 side near apical third a line running caudo-laterally to dark area at 

 sides, its tip at middle toucliing apex of a chevron-mark which is 

 followed caudally by a number of similar marks; each chevron-mark 

 commonly doul)le or paire<l, i.e., con.sisting of two parallel chevrons 

 separated Ijy a light line, except sometimes at ends; on each side of 

 chevrons irregular darker spots and blotches. The tegument of the 

 sides with spots of l)lack, but that of venter unmarkwl. The pubes- 

 cence of the alxlomen is yellowish-gray and l^rown in life, or in dry 

 specimens, the pubescence largely concealing the complicated markings 

 of the tegument and so arranged as to produce above two rows of 

 light spots more or less connected by transveree ligiit lines. Siiles with 

 light and dark pubescence, more or less in streaks and spots, but venter 

 without markings. Spinnrrrts l^rown. Epirjyniim dark nnidish brown. 



Face low, less than half the length of the cheliccric (1 : 2.4), sides 

 convex, widely .slanting, about as wide at base as length of chelicerae, 

 higli and narrow; in jirofilo dorsal line rather strongly convex. An- 

 terior part of hea<l rounded, the space between third and second rows 

 of eyes sloping rather strongly ; the first row of eyes projecting forward 

 so as to be .seen clearly from above. 



Front row of eyrs straight or sUghtiy recurve* l.sliglitly longer than the 

 second; anterior median eyes their radius apart, closer to the but little 

 smaller side eycsi; ant(;rior lateral ('ye.*^ al)out their diameter from the 

 front margin of dypeus, clo.ser to eyes of second row; eyes of second 

 row not more than two-thirds their diameter apart; eyes of third row 

 scarcely smaller than of second, tlieir diameter from latter, more than 




1908.] NATUR.VL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 263 



twice a.s far from each other; quadrangle of posterior eye.s about one- 

 fifth as long as the ceplialothorax. 



Lower margin of furrow of the chelicerce armed with three equidistant 

 conical teeth, these equal in size, the third no smaller than the first. 

 The upper margin with three teeth, the middle, as usual, much largest, 

 the first and third about equal, both usually contiguous with base of 

 second, or the third slightly removed. 



Legs short and motlerately slender; tibia 4- patella of fourth legs 

 shorter than the cephalothorax; metatarsus of fourth legs much 

 shorter than tibia + patella; anterior tarsi slightly curvetl, others 

 straight; two anterior pair of femora sliglitly bent forward, last pair 

 slightly bent backward; first and second tarsi scopulate; third and 

 fourth tarsi not truly scopulate, subdensely setulose; tibia? and meta- 

 tarsi of first and second legs armetl beneath as usual, patella of these 

 legs unarmed. 



£^/j<V///num as figured (PI. XXI, fig. 3). 



Total length, 13 nun. Lcngtli of cephalothorax, 5.1 mm.; width, 

 3.8 mm. 



Length of leg I, 10.0 mm.; tib. + pat., 4.1 mm.; met., 2.1 mm. 



Length of leg II, 10.() mm. 



I^ength of leg III, !).2 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 11 mm. ; til), -t- pat., 4.8 mm.; met., 3.3 mm. 



Syn. — 1S90. Lyco.m prnlerisis, M:irx, Proc. U. S. N. M., 12. 



1892. Lycosn prntensis, Haiik.s, Froc I'liil. .\ca<l. Nat. Sci., 44, p. 64. 



1.S04. Lycosn pralensis Emerton, Trans. Conn. Acad. Sci., IX, p. 422, 



ri.III,fij,'. i\. 

 lS9o. Lycosa pralensis Etnortnn, Hanks, J. N. Y. Ent. Soc, III, p. 01. 

 1902. Lycom pratensis En»<;rtnii, Coniinon Sp. U. 8., p. G9, fips. ION, 1<>9, 170. 

 1904. Trochosa pralensis, .Montgonicry, I'roc. Acatl. Nat. ."^ci. Phila., p. ;J03. 



Type locality. — Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Hampshire. 



Known locaiUies. — Massachasetts, Connecticut, New Hampshire!, 

 New York!, Long Island!, Canada (mountains near Lagan, Lake of 

 Wo(k1s, Ga.'^pd, Anticosti, liyron I., Port Hawkesbury). 



According U) Emerton, in New England "this is the mast com- 

 mon species, under stones and under leaves in winter." Also: "This 

 does not seem to be a very active spider, and is commonly f<)und under 

 8tone<^." 



Its habits in New York I have found similar. 



Lyoota koohii (KoyMrling), 1870. 



(S»jb Tarentuln, V.-rli z. I). (Ic-j. Wi<'n, 20, p. 030, PI. 7, fig. IS.) 

 Female. — Cephalothorax with a pale striiH,* as wkle as thin! eye row, 




264 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



becoming abruptly a little narrower near posterior end of pars cephalica 

 and tlien gradually narrowing posteriorly. Tegument of median 

 stripe retldish brown, but quadrangle of posterior eyes often black; 

 median stripe clothed with gray-brown pubescence. Sides of cephalo- 

 thorax darker above and becoming lighter below; clothed with gray- 

 brown pubescence, like that t)f doi"sal stripe, mixed with dark blackish 

 pubescence, the brown hair becoming gradually more abundant from 

 above below but forming no distinct marginal bands. Chelicercc dark 

 re<l-brown with short light brown pubescence basall}' and darker longer 

 hairs on distal part. Endites reddish brown, light at tips. Labium 

 darker, blackish, also lighter distally. Sternum dark brown, marked 

 by a faint paler malian line, clothed with brownish-gray pubescence and 

 longer black bristles, Coxce of legs beneath a little lighter than 

 sternum. Legs clear brown, entirely unmarked or, more rarely, with 

 indistinct annular markings on femora. Palpi similarly colored. 

 Abdomen with brown-gray, brown and black hair; venter pale, immacu- 

 late; sides above finely streaked and spotted with the darker pubescence 

 among the paler. Anterior face of abdomen with a l)lack transverse 

 band extending over each antero-lateral angle. At base a lanceolate 

 outline, sometimes absent, which behind gives off a number of lines on 

 each caudo-laterally, and is followed behind b}' a series of ciievron- 

 fonned lines; in most on each side of dorsum a row of dark angular 

 marks in which the ends of the chevron-lines terminate. Spinnerets 

 brown, densely pubescent. Epigijnum dark rctldish brown. 



Cephalothorax highest at posterior eyes, moderatel}' low l)ehind, a 

 little concavatcnl at dorsal groove. Face in height less than half the 

 length of the chelicera;, its sides convex and widely slanting. 



Anterior row of eyes as long as second, gently procurved ; anterior 

 median eyes more than their radius apart, about half as far from the 

 smaller lateral eyes; anterior lateral eyes about their diameter from 

 front margin of clypeus, farther from eyes of second row. l>yes of 

 second row sej)arate<l by three-fourtlis their diameter or a little more. 

 Eyes of the third row once and a half again as far from each other as 

 from the eyes of the second row. (Quadrangle of posterior eyes about 

 one-fifth the length of the cej)halothorax. 



Lower margin of furrow of chdicerd arme<l with two equal stout teeth, 

 the upper margin with three an usual. Labium as wide as long; basal 

 excavation less than one-third the total length (1 : '^0); I'at her strongly 

 attenuated in front with sides above straight or slightly concave below 

 angles; anterior margin in<lentc<l at middle but sides a little convex. 



Tibia -f- pat<*lla of fourth /rf/.s shorter than the ce))halothorax ; tai-si T 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



and II and metatarsi of .^ame legs except at base scopulate; tarsi of 

 third and fourth legs clothed beneath with bristles, l^atellae of first and 

 second legs unarmed. 



Epigi/num as figured (PI. XXI, fig. 5). 



Total length, 11.4 mm.; length of cephalothorax, 4.5 mm.; width, 

 3.4 mm. 



length of leg I, 10.5 mm.; tib. + pat., 3.9 mm.; met., 2.1 mm. 



Length of leg II, 10.5 mm. 



Length of leg III, 10.2 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 14.5 mm.; tib. + pat., 4.8 mm.; met., 4 mm. 



A/a/c— <l,V)lored like female but lighter; femora of legs lighter and 

 clearer brown, tibia and more distal joints darker, reddish brown. 



l^atella of second legs with a spine in front. 



Tibia and patella of palpus of same length $ind thickness, together 

 about equalling the length of the tarsus. For structure of palpal 

 organ see PI. XXI, fig. 4. 



Total length, 9.2 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 4.2 mm.; width, 

 3.2 mm. 



Ix?ngth of leg I, 10.7 mm.; tib, + pat., 3.9 mm.; met., 2.4 mm. 



Length of leg II, 9.6 mm. 



lycngth of leg III, 8.8 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 11 mm.; tib. + pat., 3.9 mm.; met., 2.6 mm. 



Type localUij. — " Xorth America." 



Known loailities. — Colorado!, Utah!, Oregon, Arizona!, California!. 



Lycota ^ulosa Wulckenaer, 1837. 

 (Ins. .\|)t., l.p. 338.) 

 Fernalv. — Ccpholothorfix dark re<l<lish brown crosse<l by blackish 

 radiating lines; a wide median light stripe which is constricted between 

 thoracic groove and third eye row and again liehind the groove, widest 

 in front of the first constriction, extending to the second e3'e row in 

 front; the me<lian light brown band clothe<l with light gray pubescence ; 

 on each side a supramarginal irregular e<lge<l band of same color and 

 pubescence as the me<lian one; cephalothorax except on light stripes 

 clothe<l with dark brown puljescence. Chtliccr(e black, paler distally, 

 clothe<l for most of length with yellowish pubescence, distally with 

 longer dark brown hairs ; the fringe along furrow rust colored. Ijohium 

 and endites deep brown, paler at tips. SUrnnm deep reddish brown 

 or, more rarely, black, clothed with short grayish-brown and longer 

 dark brown pul>escence. Coxa: of legs iK'neath brown to re<ldish- 

 brown, lighter than .sternum, Lcy« re<ldish brown, all joints except 




266 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



the tarsi with black annulations which are usually more distinct 

 proximally and deeper above on femora than ventrally; clotheil with 

 brown hair which is also the color of the scopulae. Abdotnen above 

 grayish-brown, the pubescence consisting of gray and brown inter- 

 mixed; at base a dark, deeper margined, sublanceolate stripe ending 

 obtusely or bifurcating at the middle, but this basal mark frequently 

 inconspicuous and sometimes absent; posterior portion of dorsum 

 rarely with some dark chevron-shaped cross-lines; a black sjjot over 

 each antero-lateral angle which is usually followed caiulad by a row of 

 dark angular spots and marks along the sides ; sides and venter yellowish 

 or grayish brown, the pubescence, as on dorsum, being light and dark 

 often intermixed in fine spots and streaks ; the tegument of A-enter often 

 showing two pairs of dark lines or stripes converging toward the 

 spinnerets; entire animal darkening with age, the venter then showing 

 usually a broatl dark brown to black band over its length from genital 

 furrow to the spinnerets. Spinnerets brown. Epigijnum dark red- 

 dish-brown to black. 



Face about half as high as the length of the chelicerip. sides rounded 

 and slanting; width at base less than the length of the cheliceraR. 

 Dorsal line of ceplialothorax highest at third eye row, somewhat con- 

 cavated at median furrow. 



Anterior row of eyes considerably shorter than the second (by twice 

 the diameter of a lateral eye or more), moderately procurved ; anterior 

 me<lian eyes l&ss than their radius apart; anterior lateral eyes about 

 two-thirds as large as the median, a little less than their tliameter from 

 eyes of second row and a little more than their diameter from front 

 margin of clypeus; ej'es of second row large, about three-fifths their 

 diameter apart ; eyes of third row but little smaller than those of secona 

 (a<l. 5 :6), more than twice a** far from each other as from eyes of second 

 row; quadrangle of posterior e3'es between one-fifth and one-sixth the 

 length of the cephalothorax. 



Chelicera; with furrows armo<l as usual. Labiritn nearly a" wide as 

 long, not much attenuatcil; front margin concavatcd. Legs with 

 tibia + patella IV of same length as cephalothorax or a very little 

 longer; metatarsus IV longer than the cephalothorax is wide: anterior 

 tibia' and patella arme<i as usual; tarsi and metatarsi 1 and II scopulate; 

 tarsi III and IV as usual. 



Epigynnm broadly ovate with posterior end widely truncate; side 

 ri«lges relatively very thick; septal piece of guide in front of enlarged 

 pfisterior end wth sides parallel or nearly so, the femur at its side 

 narrow anrl not much difTering in width from anterior end back to the 

 caudal enlargement of guide Ci'l. XXI. fii;. 7). 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 267 



Total length, 14 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 7.7 mm.; wMth, 

 6 mm. 



Length of leg I, 19.7 mm.; tib. + pat., 7.4 mm.; met., 4.1 mm. 



Length of leg II, 19.4 mm. 



Length of leg III, 18.6 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 24.1 mm.; tib. + pat., 7.8 mm.; met., 6.7 mm. 



Male. — Colored nearly as in the female. Legs dark brown or black- 

 ish di-stally, showing mostly no rings or marks except on femora. 

 Palpi reddish yellow with ends of joints dark and some dark marks on 

 femora. 



Patella of palpus as long as the tibia, the.se two joints together of 

 about the same length as the tarsus; terminal portion of palpus a 

 little shorter than the bulb. 



Embolus bending outward and somewhat distally from base, resting 

 upon the lectus only across the auricle, the greater part of its length 

 being supporte<l only by its much elongated basal flap (PI. XXL fig. 6). 



Total length, 11.2 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 5.5 mm.; width, 

 4,8 mm. 



Length of h-g I, 19.7 mm.; tib. + pat., 7.1 mm.; met., 4.6 mm. 



Length of leg II. 18.5 nun. 



Length of leg III, 17.3 nmi. 



Length of leg IV, 22.8 nmi. ; tib. 4- pat., 7 mm. ; met.. 6.7 mm. 



Syn. — 1876. Tarenlula pulchra Keyserling, Verb. z. b. Gcs. Wien, 26, p. 628, 



PI. 7, fips. 13. 14. 

 1885. Lycom kochii Enierton (nee Keyserling), Trans. Conn. Acad. Sci., 6, 



p. 485. IM.40. figs, fi to 6c. 

 189(). Lifcosa korhii Stone, Pror. .Vrarl. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 42, p. 426. 

 1892. Lycosa kochii Marx. Pnu-. Knt. Soe. W.. 2, p. KM). 



. Lycosa kochii liank.s, Proc. .Acad. Xat. Sci. Pliilii.. p. 61. 



1902. Lycosa kochii Eincrtoii, Coinnion Sp. U. S., p. 74, fips. 179, 180. 



. Lycosa purcelli .Montfioiiicrv, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., p. 566, 



P1.30 figs. 30, 31. 

 1904. Lycosa pulchra (Kcys.),("liaiiil><Tliii, Caiiad. Kiit., p. 147. 

 . Lycosa euej/iyi/rinla, Montgomery, Proc. .\cad. .Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 279, 



H. Will, figs. 1,2. 



. Lycosa insopila, Montgomery, ibid., p. 280. PI. XVIII, figs. 3, 4. 



. Trochoaa purcelli, Montgomery, Proc. Acacl. Nat. S«-i. Phila., p. 305. 



T!fi>c loctililt/. — "North America." 



Known localities. — Connecticut, Massachusetts, Rhmle Island!, New 

 Hanjpshire!, New York!, Pennsylvania, New Jei"soy, District of 

 Columbia!, X'irginia North Carolina!, Alabama!, .Mississippi!. Texas!, 

 Kansas!. lii<liaiia. Itah! 



Types in cf»llection of Dr. Kr)(li. 



A strongly markc<l and widely (bslributnl .species; which, a.s might 

 \)C expj'ctc<i, i.s subject to some variations in size and coloration. The 




268 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



cpiirynuni and tho peculiar palpus of the male are constant in essential 

 features anil at once reveal the species beneath more superficial differ- 

 ences. The pattern 'of the markings on the legs, the cephalothorax 

 and of the dorsum of abdomen remain j^retty nearly the same always 

 except as to depth and distinctness of the colors. The venter of the 

 abdomen becomes dark or even black with age, the entire animal also 

 then taking on a darker color. 



Lycosa modesta ( Keyserling), 1876. 



(Sub Tarenlula, Verh. z. b. Ges. Wien, p. 626, PI. VII, fig.s. 11, 12.) 



Female. — Cephalothorax with a light median band as wide as space 

 between eyes of third row; sides of median band nearly straight or 

 slightly curved convexly, converging gradually caudally, in front reach- 

 ing eyes of second row but there commonly darker; median band with 

 tegument light retldish brown, darker between eyes, clothed with brown- 

 gray pubescence; on each side a narrow marginal and a narrow supra- 

 marginal line of gray pubescence like that upon middle band, the two 

 marginal lines often indistinctly separated. Sides of cephalothorax deep 

 brown or nearly black, clothed with mixed dark brown and brownish- 

 gray pubescence, the gray arranged in radiating streaks, more abundant 

 below. ChelicercB dark red-brown, lighter distally, clothed with dark 

 brown hairs except below and along furrow, where they are lighter and 

 clearer. Labium and cmlitcs tlark brown, light at tips. Sternum 

 shining refldlsh black or deep brown, sparsely provided with dark 

 hairs about borders. Coxce beneath dark brown, paler at bases. 

 Legs brown, darker distally, especially the tibia and metatarsus, 

 the tarsus being lighter on anterior pairs; annuli above, which are more 

 obscure Ix'neath. clothed with shorter gray and more spar.-^e longer and 

 stiffer hairs. Scopulae grizzly brown. Abdomen having the tegument 

 brown mottle<l with light and dark ; a black lanceolate outline at base 

 which on each side posteriorly gives off a number of lines caudo- 

 laterally, the basal mark sometimes absent; lanceolate mark followed 

 behind by a series of black transverse chevron-lines; in most on each 

 side of the dorsum behind a row of white spots in which the ends of 

 the dark chevron-lines terminate, these spots f(jrmed of bunches of 

 white hair; a l)lack mark over each antero-lateral angle; sides 

 brown with darker mottlings and streaks and spots of gray or whitish 

 hair. Venter black with some light spots at sides. Pubescence of 

 nMomcn is light gray or white and a darker colr)r, dark smoky gray to 

 blaek, the latt<'r found unmixe<l on venter, the former prcdoniinat- 

 ing above. Sj/inncrcls brown. Ejngynum re<itlish brown and figurc<l. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 269 



Cephalothorax moderately high and steep sided, relatively wide in 

 front. In profile line of dorsum highest behind third eye row, con- 

 cavated at front of dorsal furrow. Face low, in height hardly half the 

 length of the cheh eerie. Face at base about wide as length of cheli- 

 cene, sides more than usually widely slanting, more convex below. 



Anterior row of eyes a httle shorter than the second, procurved; 

 anterior median about their radius apart, twice as large in diameter as 

 the lateral eyes; anterior lateral eyes nearly their diameter from the 

 front margin of the clypeus, more than their diameter from eyes of 

 second row; anterior median eyes less than half their diameter from 

 eyes of second row and nearly as close to front margin of clypeus; eyes 

 of second row scarcely more than half their diameter apart, two-thirds 

 their diameter from eyes of third row which are two-thirds or a little 

 more as large; eyes of third row twice as far from each other as from 

 eyes of second row. Cephalothorax 5.5 times as long as the quad- 

 rangle of posterior eyes. 



Legs short, the fourth pair less than three times the length of the 

 cephalothorax; tibia -t- patella IV shorter than the cephalothorax; 

 metatarsus IV shorter than tibia + patella; tarsi and metatarsi I and 

 II scopulate, the scopidae not dense; tarsi III and IV with very thin 

 scopuhe at sides, the ventral surface mostly occupied by a broad band 

 of long sctie; tibia + metatarsus I and II armai as usual beneath; 

 patella I and II unarmed. 



Total length, 11.2 mm. Lengtli of cephalothorax, 4.9 mm.; width, 

 3. 7. mm. 



Ixjngth of leg, I, 9.8 mm.; tib. + pat., 3.7 nun.; met., l.Smm. 



Length of leg II, 9.3 mm. 



Lengtli of leg 111, 9.1 mm. 



Length of leg IV^, 12.G mm. ; tib. + pat., 4 mm. ; met., 3.5 mm. 



Mdle. — Cephalothorax relativel}' narrower in front than in female 

 and more deprc^-sed. Patella I and II unarmed. Tibia + |)atolla IV 

 shorter than cephalothorax. 



Patella as long as tibia, the latter thick distally. Femur laterally 

 compressed above with 1, 1,3 spines. 



Total length, 8.4 mm. Length of cephalotiiorax, 4.<') mm.; width, 

 3.4 mm. 



IxMigth f)f leg I, 11.9 nun.; tib. + pat., 4.3 mm.; met., 2.7 mm. 



I/Ctigth of leg II, 10.2 mm. 



liCngth of leg III, 10 mm. 



l^ength oflog 1\', 1.3.4 mm. ; tib. -f- pat., 4.4 mm.; met., 2.7 mm, 



IS 




270 PROCEEDINX.S OF THK ACADEMY OF [May, 



S\Ti.— 1890. Tnrcntitla modesta, Marx, P. l'. S. X. M.. p. 564. 



1902. Lijcosa sepulchralis Montgomerv, Proc. .\catl. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 543, 

 PI. XXIX, fig. 7. 



1903. Lrjcosa sepulchralis Montgomery, ibid., p. 645, PI. 29, fig. 7. 



1904. Trochosa sepulchralis, Montgomery, ibid., p. 307. 



Type locality. — Maniand (Baltimore). 



Habitat. — Maryland. District of Columbia, Pennsylvania!, Texas!. 



Lycosa piotilis Emerton, 1885. 



(Tr. Conn. .\cad. Sci., 6, p. 4S5, PI. 46. figs. 5 to 56.) 

 Female. — Ccphalothorax with a median grayish band (of i)ubescence) 

 which, beginning at the second eye row, pa.sses between the eyes of 

 tliird row and then abruptly bulges on each side, being much wider 

 than eye area midway between eyes and doi'sal groove, then nari'owing 

 to dorsal groove where it is about same width a.s eye area; parallel 

 sided to posterior declivity and then narrowing down the declivity; the 

 me<lian band, wliile chiefly of gray hair, has intermi.xed brown hair 

 which is more abimdant anteriorly between eyes; in wide area back of 

 eyes an intramarginal line on each side is formed of brown hair, these 

 lines l)eing parallel to the sides and merging together in the brown 

 between the eyes. .Sides of cephalothorax chocolate Ijrown, clothed 

 with brown pubescence; a narrow marginal and a similar sujiramarginal 

 line of grayish hair on each side. Chclicenc reddish black. Labium 

 with gray pubescence. Sternum blackish brown. Coxa; of legs 

 beneath jialcr brown like other joints of legs. Leys dark brown; 

 femora lighter iKMieath on basal half, apically on most femora two 

 interruptefl light rings and a few light, transverse marks above else- 

 where. Tibia with several light rings, which on the anterior ])air may 

 be confluent l)eiu'ath; other joints unmarked. Ahdotncii Ix'iieath at 

 sides dusky brown, having a blackish-brown tegument covered with 

 brown hair, rather darker on sides above; a black spot on each antero- 

 lateral angle which encloses a liglit spot, the latter nearly bicaking 

 through lower margin f)f spot; mesally from the l)lack spot is a large 

 light spot on each side; along tiie inner posterior margin of each of 

 these orange spots being a short ol)H(|ti(' black line, the two lines not 

 meeting in the middle; posteriorly is a series of median black 

 chevron-marks, the first divide<l or nearly so at middle; at the outer 

 end of each of the chevrons is a light spot en('l(»se<| by black, the 

 light spots thus forming a lateral series on each side; in front of 

 each half of each chevron is a light cohinnl spot ; these spots in front 

 of the posterior chevrons confluent. 'J'he series of light spot.s j)n 

 each side in life cf)vere<l with grayish or gray jmbescence; the large 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADKLPHIA. 271 



light spots in front coverecl with orange-colorcil or with rusty-brown 

 hair and connectetl at middle with gray hair; Hght transverse marks in 

 front of posterior chevrons covered with gray hair; middle of dorsum 

 in front covere<l with mostly gray and with fewer brown hail's. Epigy- 

 num and spinnerets black-l)r()wn. Legs over the light spots with 

 partly gray pubescence; pubescence elsewhere brown. 



Median dorsal line of cephalothorax straight, not depressed at dorsal 

 furrow. Sides of jace convex and widely slanting. 



Anterior row of eyes procurved, but little shorter than the second 

 row; anterior lateral eyes their diameter or a little farther from front 

 margin of the clypeus. a little farther from eyes of second row; anterior 

 median eyes less than their diameter apart (four-sevenths), clo.«?er to 

 the smaller lateral eyes (1 : 1.7); eyes of second row fully their diam- 

 eter apart; anterior median eyes about their diameter from eyes of 

 second row; quadrangle of posterior eyes a*? wide in front as long, 

 about one-fifth as long as the cephalothorax. 



For structure of cpigynum see PI. XIX, fig. S. 



Total length. 11.5 iiuu. Length of cephalothorax, 5 nun.: width, 

 .3.0 mm. 



Length <»f leg I, l.'i.l nun.; tib. + i)at.. Inun.; met., 2.3 mm. 



Length of leg II, 1 1 mm. 



Length of leg III. 10.5 nun. 



Length of leg I \', N.Umin.; tib. + pat., 4. G nun. ; met.. 4.1 mm. 



Male. — Coloration of crplialolhorox and legs nearly as in female. 

 Ahflomrn with nearly same markings but black spot over front angles 

 circular, not enclosing a light spot; venter with gray pubescence; gray 

 pubescence of dorsum much nu)re abimdant than in female, the rusty 

 colonnl pubescence largely replace<l by it. 



Tarsus of jxilpus some (11 : 13) shorter than the tibia + patella; 

 patella and tibia of about same thickness, the former slightly longer; 

 tibia but slightly thickened <listally; tarsus clearly wider than tibia 

 (5:4). 



For structure of palpal organ see IM. .\ I .\. fig. (5. 



Total length, 0.3 nun. Lenirth of cephalothorax, 5.3 mm.; width, 

 3.0 mm. 



Length of leg I, 13.4 mm. ; tib. + pat., 4.5 mm. ; met.. 3. .3 mm. 



Ix'tigth of let: II, 12.4 mm. 



Lerifrth of leg 111. 12.3 nun. 



Length «»f leg 1\', l().Smm.: tib. 4- pat.. 5 nun.; met., 1.7 nun. 



Svn. — Li/rnsd jiirlilit Montgomerv, IVoc. .\catl. .Vat. Sci. I'liila., p. 287, PI. 

 'XVIli.fiRH. 7.«. 




272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Locality. — New Hampshire!. 



"Tliis very distinct species is abundant among the moss and low 

 shrubs on the upper part of Mt. Washington, \ew Hamjxshire, and the 

 neighboring mountains." 



The descriptions above are based upon the type specimens. 



Lycosa famosa Emerton, 1894. 



(Tr. Conn. Acad. Sci., 9, p. 421, PI. 3, fig.s. 1, la.) 



Female. — Cephalothorax nearly black, of a reddish tinge. Chelicerce 

 the same color as cephalothora.x. Labium and endiics lighter in 

 color than cephalothorax, pale distally. Sternum similar to cephalo- 

 thorax but lighter. Coxfc of legs beneath brown, clearly paler tlian 

 sternum. Legs a httle lighter and more reddish than cephalothorax, 

 the femora slightly darker than other joints, all joints unmarketl 

 or the femora with a few faint light spots. Palpi like legs. Cephalo- 

 thorax, sternum and legs clothed with gray-brown pubescence, being 

 probably bleached in the alcohol. Abdomen entirely black, slightly 

 paler beneath especially in front of lung-slits, clothed with brown 

 pubescence; pubescence of entire body and legs rather dense. 



Cephalothorax comparatively low, angularly depressed in profile at 

 dorsal groove. Face one-half a.s high as the length of the chelicera?. 

 Anterior row of eyes of the same length as the second or very nearly so, 

 nearly straight, the center of lateral eyes being but slightly lower; 

 anterior me<lian eyes slightly smaller than the lateral; the tubercles of 

 the lateral eyes increase their apparent size: anterior median eyes 

 their full diameter apart, same distance from the lateral eyes, more 

 than their diameter from eyes of second row; anterior lateral eyes more 

 than their diameter from eyes of second row (nearly one and one-thinl), 

 closer, but little more than diameter, from front margin of clypeus; 

 eyes of serond row not fully tiieir diameter apart; eyes of third row 

 three-fourths as large as those of second; quadrangle of posterior 

 eyes a Httle wider in front than long (11.5 : 10) unusually wide behind, 

 being there nearly twice as wide as long (19 : 10), the i>ars cephalica 

 being wider than usual and the third eyes set well out laterally; the 

 qua^lrangle of posterior eyes between one-fifth and one-sixth a.s long as 

 the cephalothorax (about 1 : 5.6). 



l/ower margin of the furrow of the chelicerce with three stout teeth, 

 the third being a little stouter than the others; the first two with 

 posterior face more curve<l than the anterior and so appearing bent 

 forward; upper margin with three teeth, the first minute, the middle 

 stout and acute as asual, the tliird as long an median but more slender. 




1908.J NATURAL SCIEXCE3 OF PHILADELPHIA. 273 



Legs with the anterior tibiie armed beneath with three pair of spines, 

 these short as usual, the apical pair reduced; anterior patella armed 

 behind; tibire II armetl in front and behind; tibia + patella IV a little 

 lonircr than cephalothorax, shorter than tibia 4- patella I. 



Total length, 16 mm. Length of cephalotliorax, 7 mm.; width, 

 5.8 mm. 



For structure of epigynum see PI. XIX, fig. 2. 



Length of leg I, 2L6 mm.; tib. + pat., 8.2 mm.; met., 5 mm. 



J>engtli of leg II, 2L6 mm. 



Length of leg III, 18.9 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 23.7 mm. ; tib. + pat., 8 mm. ; met., 7 mtn. 



McUe. — Cephalothorax, cheliccra; and sternum blackish. Labium, 

 endiles and coke of legs beneath dark brown, as in female. Pubes- 

 cence throughout brown, dense. 



For structure of palpal organ see PI. XIX, fig. 3. 



Total length, 11 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 6 miu.; width, 

 5 mm. 



liCngth of leg I, 23.6 nun. ; tib. + pat., 8 nmi. ; met., 6.8 mm. 



Length of leg II. 2.3 mm. 



Length of leg III, 21.6 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 24.1 mm.; tib. + pat.. 7.7 mm.; met., 7.7 nun. 



Locality. — Canada !. 



Tlie description above was taken from the types, 



Lycosa beanii r^mcrton. 1894. 



(Tr. Conn. .Vra.l. Sci., 19, p. IJl, VI. 3, figs. 2 to 26.) 



Fenude. — Sides of cephalothorax and eye region blackish brown; 

 back of eyes a lighter re<ldish brown me<lian stripe as wide as the 

 eye area; the me<lian stripe narrowing distinctly to posterior declivity, 

 coastricted in front of dorsal groove, widening out again at jiosterior 

 margin. No light colore<I lateral stripes. Chclicercc blackish or black- 

 ish brown. Ijabium and cm/j7rs re< Id ish brown, ^^'/tr/jum deep brown, 

 faintly paler along middle. Coxic of legs l>eneath distinctly lighter than 

 stcnuun, brown. Legs brown, paler than sides of cephalothorax, entirely 

 unmarkcHJ behtwbut femora above and on sides, especially on p().«<tcrior 

 pairs, with rather indistinct clo.sely arranginl dark and light transverse 

 markings. Abdomen brown down mi(Ulle, blackish brown acro.ss front 

 declivity and in a band pa^'^ing over each ant<*r()-lateral angle and 

 down the side of dorsvnn. A tiark basal lanceolate mark evident 

 reaching the middle of dorsum behind. Posteriorly a scries of dark 

 angular bars crossing from side to side, leaving light colore<l chevrons 




274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



between, farther forward, at and just behind the middle, the sides of 

 the dark lateral bands simply dentate, the teeth not connected across 

 miildic. Side.s becoming lighter from above below, the lower portion 

 and the venter rather light brown, the venter appearing to have been 

 somewhat darker down it.s middle behind lung-slits in life. Spimierets 

 brown. Epifjynum dark redilish brown. 



Cephalothorox highest as usual at third eye only slightly descending 

 pa«;teriorly ; the doi-sal line nearly horizontal, a little depressed at dorsal 

 groove. Face with sides sloping moderately, in height about half the 

 length of the chelicerie. Anterior row of eyes clearly shorter than the 

 seconii. jirocurved; diameter of anterior median eyes is to diameter of 

 eye of second row as 1 : 2.2; anterior lateral eyes once and a half their 

 diameter from margin of clypeus, a little closer to eyes of second row; 

 anterior median eyes their diameter from eyes of second row, and 

 one-half their diameter apart, scarcely closer to lateral eyes (which are 

 scarcely smaller); eyes of second row a little more than three-fourths 

 their diameter apart ; posterior quadrangle of same length and breadth, 

 wider behind than in front in ratio of nearly 9.25 : 7, and about one- 

 fifth as long a.s cephalothorax. 



Lower margin of the furrow of the chclicenv with two stout and 

 ecjual teeth; ui)per margin of the furrow with three teeth, the first of 

 these is low but wide and bluntly rounded, the second as usual much 

 largest, conical and acute, the third of intermediate size, shaped like 

 the second. 



Tarsi of hys not curvetl, all straight; fii-st two pairs of femora bent 

 forward; thiril femora nearly straight, .scarcely bent backward; fourth 

 femora a little l>ent backward. Scapula' distributed about as usual 

 but rather spai-se, divide<l by setose band on all tarsi !. 



Epiiiijuum 1 mm. wide and about same length {i.e., shorter tjian 

 any of co.xa*. the third of which is 1.6 mm. long) (PI. XI\, fig. 5). 



Total length, 12 nmi. Length f)f cephalothorax, 5..'^ mm.; width, 

 3.8 mm. 



I/ength of leg 1 . 1 1 X^ mm. ; tib. + jjat., G. 1 nun. ; met., 2.4 nun. 



Ix^ngth of leg II. lO.'.Mnm. 



I^ength of leg III, 10.4 mm. 



I^ength of leg I V, 14.2 mm.; tib. -I- pat., 4.2 mm.; met., L2 mm. 



M(tl( . — Coloration ver>' nearly the same as in female. lAtjs not at all 

 marketl, the firnt and 8<'Con<l femora darker than |)osterior one.s, firet 

 tibia also darker. Palpi darker than in the female, the tarsi a little 

 darker than other joints, Iimer margin.s of dark lateral bands of 

 dorsum dentate and serrate, but not with any connecting angular (»r 

 rhevron-shaiHNl mark-s across middle. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 275 



For structure of palpal organ see PI. XIX, fig. 4. 

 Total length. 8.S mm. Length of cephalothorax, 4.5 mm.; \Nidth, 

 3.3 mm. 



Length of leg I. 10.4 mm. ; tib.. + pat., 3.7 mm. ; met., 2 mm. 



Length of leg II. 9.8 mm. 



J..ength of leg III, 9.6 mm. 



Length of leg I \'. 12.8 mm.; tib. + |)at..4mm. ; met., 3.6 mm. 



Locality. — Canada!. 



The descriptions above are from the types. 



Lyoosa albohaatata Kmerton, 1894. 



(Tr. Conn. .\cad. Soi., 9, p. 123, PI. 3, figs. 3 to Sb.) 

 Male. — Ceplmlothorax with a wide me^lian band of reddish-brown 

 color extending to ch'peus anteriorly ; in front this band is as wide as the 

 clypeus and wider than the eye area, narrowing gradually and con- 

 stantly backward to a point at jjosterior margin, the sides nearly 

 straight ; this band appears to have been clothed in life with light gray 

 pubescence. Sides of cephalothorax dark brown, presenting a re<^ldish- 

 brown background c(nTre<l with radiating blacki.sh lines whicli are more 

 or less confluent above and below. Cheliccne reddish brown. Ldhixnn 

 and endites brown, paler distally. Stermim black or very nearly so. 

 Cox(e i)eneath brown. Legs brown of orange hue; all joints except 

 tarsi with black annuli, these annuli incomplete beneath except on 

 femora where they are most distinct. Abdomen with a light ba^al 

 mark, the sides of which are nearly parallel to its middle, tlien narrowe<l 

 to a truncate point at middle of abdomen; this basal mark Is densely 

 clothwl with white hail's and is margine<l at sides and behind by l)lack, 

 mostly broken into irregularly ehjugatinj spots, from the sides of this 

 black extend somewhat broken lines of black more or less oblicpiely 

 outward and backward, the last two lines extending from the angles of 

 the trimcate aj)ex of basal mark; behind in the middlr is a .series of 

 traasveree black lines, and along each side a number of black dots; 

 on eachsi<leof doi-sum behind a row of light sj)ots clotheil with whitish 

 hairs; the l)a<"kgrouiid of alxlomen al)ove orange-ltrown ; sides of alxlo- 

 men orange-brown mottUxl with numerous irregular black dots and 

 marks; venter with elear orange-brown, darkene<l in front of lung-slit.s 

 and along a luirrow border laterally and post<'riorly. I'olpi with the 

 fenjora blaek, not distinctly ringe«i, the patella and tibia orange, the 

 tarsiis darker, blaekish. I*ulM»srence on entire Ixnly except where 

 stat^Ml r)therwi.'<e orange-brown. 



Face as compared with chelicene low and relatively wide, the length 




276 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF V'^^y, 



of the chclicenc being about two and one-half times as great as the 

 height of the face; sides sloping and rounded as usual. Anterior row of 

 eyes slightly procurvcd, nearly as long as the second; anterior median 

 eyes three-fourths their diameter apart; anterior lateral eyes three- 

 fourths as large as the median, closer to the median than the latter are 

 to each other (2 :3); anterior lateral eyes their diameter from front 

 margin of clypeus and the same distance from eyes of second row; 

 anterior median eyes scarcely more than one-half their diameter from 

 eyes of second row; eyes of second row slightly more than twice as large 

 in diameter as the anterior median eyes (9 : 4); quadrangle of posterior 

 eyes as wide in front as long; wider behind than in front in ratio of 

 6.3 : 4.6; between one-fourth and one-fifth as long as ccphalothorax. 



Lower margin of the furrow of the chelicerce with three teeth which are 

 stout and conical, the third a little reduced ; upper margin with three 

 teeth as usual, the first minute. Labium of usual shape, slightly 

 curved for entire width. Legs with tibia + patella IV of same length 

 as the cephalothorax; metatarsus distinctly longer than the width of 

 the cef)halothorax; both the posterior and the anterior tarsi with the 

 scopula' tlivided b}' a median setose band, the anterior metatai-si with 

 only sparse scopular hairs. 



Tibia of palpus of same length as patella and of same tiiickness 

 proxinially, the tibia widening moderately distally; tibia and patella 

 together a little longer than the tarsus. 



For structure of palpal organ see PI. XIX, fig. 1 . 



Total length, 6 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 3 mm.; width, 

 2.2 mm. 



Length of log I, 8.2 mm. ; tib. + pat., 2.8 mm. ; met., 2 nun. 



Ixjngth of leg II, 7.7 mm. 



Ivcngth of leg III, 7.3 mm. 



Jycngth of leg IV, 0.6 n)m.; tib. + pat., 3 mm.; met., 2.7 mm. 



Female. — Ojloration of the female is nearly .same througliout jis male. 

 Eye arrangement and general structure as for the male. Legs with 

 tibia 4- patdla shorter than the length of the cephalothorax; meta- 

 tAreus IV very little hunger than ccphalothorax is wide. 



The epigynum of 8|)ecimen studied (type) is not entirely adult. 



Total length, 7.2 mm. Lengti) of ccj)hnlothorax, 3.7 nun.; width, 

 2.8 mm. 



Jxingth of leg I, 8mni.; lib. + pat., 2.9 mm.; met., l.Snun. 



Length (if leg 1 1 . 7.9 mm. 



Jyongth i)i leg III, 7 mm. 



length of Ic^ IV, U.l nuii.;tii). f pat., 3.2 mni. ; met., 2.9 mm. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 277 



Locality. — Laggan, Canada!. 



The description above was taken from the types. Two males from 

 the valley near Laggan and young females from the neighboring 

 mountains 6,000 to 7,000 feet high . 



Lycosa quinaria Emerton, 1894. 



(Tr. Conn. Acad. Sci., 0, p. 422, PI. 3, figs. 5, 5a.) 



Female. — Cephalolhorax dark reddish brown without markings, 

 Chelicene reddish black. iMbium and endites colored like cephalothorax, 

 the endites scarcely palerdistally, the lal)ium not palerdistally. Sternum 

 like cephalothorax. Coxoi beneath lighter than sternum. Legs red- 

 dish brown, paler beneath, unmarked except for a few fine and incon- 

 spicuous longitudinal black lines, which are most distinct on femora, 

 on each of which there is one on the dorsal surface. Abdomen dark 

 brownish or gra}', faintly paler along the middle, with a series of incon- 

 spicuous black marks each side. Epigynum reddish brown. Spinnerets 

 concolorous with alxlomen. 



Cephalothorax shape<l about as usual. Face with sides rounded and 

 widely sloping, in height about half the length of the chelicer.T. 



Anterior row of ei/es well procurved, a line passing through the center 

 of the median eyes being tangent to the posterior margins of the lateral 

 eyes ; anterior median eyes less than their diameter apart (five-sevenths) 

 some closer to the subequal lateral eyes; anterior lateral eyes their 

 diameter from front margin of clypeus, a little farther from eyes of 

 second row; anterior median eyes their diameter from eyes of second 

 row; eyes of second row four-fifths their diameter apart; qua<lranglc of 

 posterior eyes a little wider in front than long (i).?'): ().75); between one- 

 fifth and one-sixth the length of the cephalothorax (nearly 5.5 : 1). 



Ixnver margin of furrow of cheliccroc with three teeth equal in size or, if 

 any difTerent, the third largest, moderately stout and acute ; upper 

 margin with three teeth of usual proportioas. 



Leqa stout ; tarsi all straight, not at all curved : third femora straight; 

 fourth femora a little bent backward, notexcavatcnl behind ; second and 

 first femora Ijent forward and their anterior i^ides moderately exca- 

 vate<l near middle; tarsi and metatarsi of legs I and II scopulate; tarsi 

 of legs III and I\' divide*! by a me<iian seto.se band a.s usual. 



Total length, 10 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 5.2 mm.; width, 

 4 nun. 



For structure of epigynum se(! I'l. X i.\, fig. 7. 



Ixjngth of leg I, 12 mm. ; tib. + j)at., 1. 1 nun. ; met., 2.(5 nun. 



Length f»f leg 11.11 .n nun. 




278 PROCEEDINGS OF THK acadp:my OF [^lav, 



length of leg 1 1 1 , 1 1 .4 mm. 



Length of leg I\'. 15.8 mm. ; tib. + pat., 4.9 mm. ; met., 4.6 mm. 

 Locality. — Canada (Alberta) !. 



The types are two females collected ijy J. H. Tyrrell in 1886, antl from 

 these the description above was made. 



Lyoosa rnbicanda (Keys.), 1876. 



Female. — Ccphalothorax with a light brown metlian band which 

 expamls anteriorly so as to enclose the eye area, than which it is much 

 wider anteriorly; reaching front margin of clypeus; behind eyes it 

 narrows rapiilly, running almost to a point at doi-sal groove, here 

 usually sending out a narrow branch on each side and behind continu- 

 ing as a narrow line to end of ccphalothorax. Pubescence of median 

 band light or yellowish brown, rather spai-se. Sides of cej)halothorax 

 dark reddish brown, pubescence sparse; a marginal light band each 

 side, of same color and pubescence as median band. Sometimes 

 uniform in color, without distinct markings. Cephalothorax appearing 

 polished even when not rubbal because of spai"seness of pubescence. 

 Cheliccnv dark reddish brown clothed with moderately long brown 

 pubescence. Labium and emlites brown, light distally. Sternum and 

 coxie of legs beneath brown. Legs brown, paler beneath, usually with 

 dark aniuili which are obscure or absent beneath but distinct above. 

 Abdomen with yellowish-brown and black pubescence; at base a lanceo- 

 late outline reaching to middle, from each side giving off latero-caudally 

 a. series of dark lines and followed behind by a series of chevron-marks; 

 sides of dorsum with niunerous dark dots and dashes; venter grayish 

 brown with .some dark spots and a narrow dark median line extending 

 from .spinnerets fonvard and widening in front to enclose the epigynum 

 and sometimes also widening about spinnerets. Spinnerets yellowish. 

 t^pitiynum re«ldisii brown. 



Cephalolhttrax high, with the sides steep; rather narrow, the sides 

 behind not strongly bulging. Pars cephalica long; in profile line of 

 <lorsum coaspicuously archc<l, rounded in front, the highest point 

 behind eyes of third row. Faee low, in height considerably less than 

 half the length of the chelicera'; .sides of face convex, widely slanting. 



I'irst eye row clearly longer than second, slightly recurve<l: anterior 

 me<lian eye« lefts than their radius apart, half a.s far fn. in thcsnialler 

 lat<'ral eyes; anterior lateral vyis their diameter from front nuirgin of 

 clyi>euH, less than their diameter from eyes of second row; eyes of 

 second row about half their diameter apart, a little farther from the 

 but little smaller eves «»f third row, which are fullv four times as far 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 279 



from each other; third row twice the diameter of one of its eyes, wider 

 than .'^ccond row; quadrangle of posterior eyes nuich wider than long; 

 cephalothorax si.x and a half times the length of the quadrangle of 

 posterior eyes. 



Tcdh of margins of furrow oichelicerce as usual. 



Legs short and moderately stout, the fourth pair less than three times 

 the length of cephalothorax; tibia + patella of fourth legs shorter than 

 cephalothorax, motatai'sus of fourth legs clearly shorter tlian tibia + 

 patella; tarsi I and II and distal part of metatarsi I and II scopulate, 

 scopula? not deiLse. Tai-si III and I\' with spai"se scopular haii-s laterally 

 elsewhere clothed with long bristles. 



Tibia) and metatarsi 1 and II aiinal beneath as usual, the spines 

 rather small and slender. J'atclla* L ami II each arnie<l in front with a 

 single spine. 



EpUjymnn as figured (I'l. XIX. fig. 9). 



Total length, 9.G mm. Length of cepiialothorax, 4.5 mm.; width. 

 3.;i nun. 



Length of leg I, 9.7 mm. ; tib. 4- pat., 3.6 mm. ; met., 1.9 mm. 



Length of leg II, 9.4 nnn. 



Lengtli of leg III. S.S nun. 



Length of leg I \', 12.1 nun.; tib. + pat., 4 nun.; met.. 3.2 mm. 



Syn.— 1HS.5. Lycosa jMtlita Kmcrton, Trans. Conn. Acad. Sci., 6, p. 4S4, 



PI. 40, figs. 2, 2rt, 2/>, 2c. 

 lSy(). Lycosa imHUi, .Marx, i'roc. V . S. N. M., 12, p. 5r).3. 

 . Trochu.su ruhirundii, .Marx, ibid., p. .Wl. 



1892. Lyco.m jmiUIo, Hanks, I'roc. .Vcad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 4 1. p. M. 

 , Lyrosn jHililn, .Marx, Proc. Knt. S4>c. \\ ., 2, p. KtO. 



. Lycosd jHilitii, Fox Pi(ic. lOnt. ."^oc. W ., 2, p. 2H7. 



1893. Lyco.sd ruhicundti Kcyscrlinn, Kanks. J. .\. V. Ent. Soc, I, p. 12."). 

 1S94. J.yco.sii jHilitd lOnwrton, Tr.tns. Conn. .Vcad., '.). p. 422. 



19()2. Lycosit jxditd lOimrton, Common Spiders ol I'. S., p. 70, fig. 171. 

 19()4. Trochosfi rubicundu, .Monlgomcry, Proc. .Acad. .Nat. Sci. Pliila., p. 

 :H)7, PI. XI.\. fig. 30. 



Type locality. — Eastern Massachusetts; Albany, New \uvk; .New 

 Haven. Cormecticut. 



Knnirn (oaililics. — Massachusetts, Connecticut!, Ilhcxle Island!, New 

 \'(»rk!, Indiana, District of Col mnbia. 



" I'mler stones in siunmer and mulcr leaves in winter. Kggs in June 

 and July." 



Lyooia avara (KeyMrling), 1876. 



(Sub Trochnm, V.rh. z. I), (l.-s. Wicn. 26, p. OCl, PI. \ 1 1 1, figs, as, 39.) 

 Fnnnlv. — ('rjihtildlfutrax with a light nuvlian band widest between 

 third eyi-s and doi-sal groove where it is tis uiilf !i.-< third cxc nnv; 




280 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [MaV, 



somewhat abruptly contracted at front of groove and then gratiually 

 narrowing to posterior end of ceplialothorax. reaeliing second eye row 

 in front; tegument of malian baud Hght brown clotheil with yellow or 

 brown-gray pubescence; on each side a narrow marginal and a wider 

 supramarginal band of same color and pubescence as the mc<lian one; 

 sides of ceplialothorax elsewhere with dark reddish brown tegument, the 

 pubescence over which is mixed light brown and blackish. Region about 

 eyes usually blackish. Chelkerce dark red-brown, the lateral condyles 

 retl, the claw also reddish. Labium and encUtes dark reddish brown, 

 paler at tips. Sternum lighter reddish brown, with shorter brown gray 

 pubescence and longer black bristles. Coxcc of legs beneath brown. 

 Legs brown with indistinct darker annuli, clothed with shorter and more 

 dense gray pubescence and longer dark brown or blackish bristles. Tegu- 

 ment of abdomen above reddish brown, lighter beneath; pubescence 

 above intermixeil gray and brown and with black forming a mostly 

 obscure lanceolate outline at base and scattered spots; sides and venter 

 also with small darker streaks and spots in the pubescence; pubescence 

 beneath lighter than above. Spinnerets brown. Epigijnuin reddish 

 brown. 



Sides of face convex, .'slanting outward, a little less than half as high 

 as the chelicerie are long, at base nearly as wide as length of chelicerie; 

 in profile line of dorsum liighest at third eyes, convex between third 

 eyes and posterior declivity. 



Anterior row of eyes slightly procurved, scarcely shorter than the 

 second; anterior median eyes less than their radius apart, as far from 

 the smaller lat<,'ral eyes; anterior lateral eyes not fully one-half their 

 diameter from front margin of clypeus ami about their diameter from 

 eyes of second row; eyes of second row, considerably less than their 

 diameter apart, scarcely farther from eyes of third row, which as 

 usual are more than twice as far from each other; eyes of tliird row 

 smaller than those of second nearly in ratio of 2.5 : 3. (Quadrangle of 

 post<;rior eyes one-fifth the length of ceplialothorax. 



Three equal and equidistant conical teeth along lower margin of 

 furrow of chelicerce; upper margin of furrow with three teeth as usual, 

 the first and thinl nearly equal, the third more removal from second. 



Legs .slender.; tibia + pateUa IV .sh(»rter than ce])halothorax; meta- 

 tarsus IV scarcely shorter than tibia 4- patella; posterior femora (IV) 

 bent backwanl, second aiit<'rior pair of femora a little ciu-ved forward; 

 tarsi I and II a little curve«l, tai-si III and 1\' with seopnhe divide<I by 

 mc<lian setose bands; both tarsi and metatarsi 1 and II seopulate for 

 entire length; tibia; and metatarsi I and II arineil jts usual; patella I 

 and II not armed. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 281 



For epigynum see PI. XX, fig. 2. 



Total length, 13 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 5 mm. ; width, 

 3.7 mm. 



length of leg I, 10. S mm.; tib. + pat., 3.9 mm.; met., 2.1 mm. 



I.«ngth of leg II, 10.4 mm. 



Length of leg III, 10.1 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 13.7 mm.; tib. + pat., 4.1 mm.; met., 4 mm. 



Male. — For structure of palpus see PI. XX, figs. 1, 3. 



Total length, 8 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 3.9 mm.; width, 

 3 mm. 



Ivength of leg I, 10.6 mm. ; tib. + pat., 3.9 mm.; met., 2.3 mm. 



Jjength of leg II, 10.2 mm. 



liCngth of leg III, 9.9 mm. 



I>ength of leg IV, 11.3 mm. ; tib. + pat., 4.3 mm. ; met., 2.3 mm. 



Svii. — 1S92. Lycosa rufiventris Banks, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., p. 65, 



"P1.3. fie. 3.'). 

 1S9.5. I.iirona rufiienlris Banks, J. N. Y. E. Soc, 3, p. 91 . 



1903. Ltfrnxa nvarn, Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 650, Pi. 

 X.XIX, fig. 2. 



1904. Trochom avara, Montgomery, ibid., p. 304, PI. XX, fig. 42. 



Knownlncalitics. — Massachusetts, New York !, Texas !, Kansas !, Iowa !. 



Var. gosiuta, new. 



Females from Utah thus far seen differ a little from the typo form in 

 the shape of the epigynum. The blunt process at distal end of guide in 

 avara proper is absent in this variety, and the lateral ends of the trans- 

 vei*se arms extend forward bevond the middle of the fovere (PI. 

 XX, fig. 4). 



Ijocalitif. — LItah !. 



Lyooaa oineroa tl'iil).), 1793. 



(Sub AraticiM, Ent. Syst., II, p. 423.) 

 Fcmnk. — CcpJuilothorax with the tegument marked with a broad 

 me<lian band which is wider than the eye area and covers dypeus in 

 front; this band constricted back of eye area and again, more strongly, 

 at posterior limit of j)ars ceplmlica, back of which its e<lgos are irregu- 

 lar or to(jthe«l, and widening triangularly down the posterior declivity, 

 across the lower border of which it is united with the broatl lateral bands 

 of the same color; the pale lateral bands oxt^'uding forward only to the 

 pars cephalica, with upper margin toothe<l ; excej)t for tiicwe light bands 

 the cephalothorax is dark chocolate-brown; in life the cephalothorax 

 is den.'^cly coverc*! with white and gray hair int<'rnu.\fHl in spots and 

 streaks, ra bating more or less from the <lorsum laterally. Chelicera^ 




2S2 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY (IF [May. 



black, clothed with gra}^ or grayish-brown hair. Legs with clear l)r(nvn 

 tegument which is itself faintly annulate, the clothing of white hair 

 making the annulation much more distinct. The abdomen having on 

 dorsum a median gray band which is margined on each side anteriorly 

 with a black stripe. continue<l posteriorly by a row of black dots which 

 in life are ocellato with central patches of white hair; the median light 

 band enclosing anteriorly a hastate outline which is open anteriorly and 

 is bifurcate behind: sides of alxlomen white spotted with black; venter 

 white in life. liut the tegument denuded of hair commonly shows a 

 smoky band from genital furrow to spinnerets. Spinnerets brown. 

 Coxtv and sternum brown, the latter dusky marginally. Labium 

 brownish black. Endites brown. The general color effect of this 

 species in life is that of a dusky-white body marked with small spots 

 and streaks of gray and black. 



Cephalothorax highest at middle of pars cephalica some distance back 

 of third eye row. The third eyes upon a plane strongly sloped antero- 

 ventrallv. the face more strongly .'slanting. First eye row of al)Out same 

 length as the second. 



For structure of epigynum see PI. XX, fig. 6. 



Total length, 11.5 mm. Length of cephalothorax, C.2 mm.; width, 

 4.8 mm. 



I.«ngth of leg I, 13.8 mm. ; tib. + pat., 4.8 mm. ; met., 3 mm. 



Length of leg II, 12.7 mm. 



length of leg III. 12 mm. 



I>ength of leg n'. 17mm.; til). + pat., 5.5 mm.; met., 4.2 mm. 



}fale. — Coloration as in female or nearly so. For structure of palpal 

 organ see PI. XX, fig. 5. A specimen gave the following measure- 

 ments : 



Total length, 0.8 mm. Length of ccpiialothorax, 5.1 nun.: width, 



4 mm. 



Length of leg I, 12.5 mm.; lib. 4- pat., 4 mm.; m('t.,.'imm. 



Length of log II, 11.4 mm. 



I/'ngth of leg 111. 11 nun. 



TiOngth of leg I \ . 11.7 mm.; lib. + pat., 4.8 mm. ; met.. 4 mm. 



Syn. — 1S31. Lyrosa lijnx Iliiliti, Die .Aniclm.. II, ji. \'.\, fi^r. 1'»l. 



1811. Lifrosn mnrilimn Hi-ritz. 



1818. IJifcoHn hntiHlrnmii V. Kncli, Die Ariiflin., V, y. 190, fig.s. 410, 111 . 



. Arrlosn rinrrrn ('. Korli, ihitl., XIV, |). 12.'?, (ig. I'S'iH. 



, Arrlom lynrV. Kocii, ihid., p. \:V.\, fig. l.'iOI. 



1875. Lyrtim mnritimn Hfiitz, SpidcrH \' . S., nl. Hutkchh. 



1885 Li/roMd rinrrru, KiiH-rton, .\(?w KtiKliiiid Lvfos., Tr. ronn. .\ca<i. Sci., 



VI.p. 1S.S, n. 17, fiK. 3. 

 ISSO. TrnrhoHti rinrrrn Marx, I'roc. V. S. N. M., p. .'ifiJ. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



1902. Lijcosa cinerea Einerton, Common Sp. U. S. 



. Lycoxa cinerea Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., p. 555, PI. 



XXIX. figs. 17, 18. 

 1904. Trochosa cinerea, Montgomery, ibid., p. 305, PI. XX, fig. 43. 



Type locality. — Europe. 



Known localities. — Ma.s.sachusetts, Connecticut, Indiana, \e\v Jersey, 

 New York (Long Island !), South Carolina, Utah !, Arizona, New Mexico, 

 Texas. 



A common form along the Atlantic seashore. Its color of dirty 

 white finely marketl with streaks and spots of gray and "black harmon- 

 izes with that of the sand over which it runs. 



Lycosa floridiana (Banks). 



(Sub Trochosa, Tr. Am. Ent. Soc, Vol. XXIII, p. 72.) 



Fem/ile. — Cephalothorax with a broad median yellow stripe wider 

 than the eye area in front, and narrowing gratlually caudally; eye 

 region black, the clypeus either entirely black or paler across margin; 

 sides of cephalothorax brown. Chelicertv yellow to dark brown. 

 Labium black. Endites brown. Sternum and coxn of legs beneath 

 light brown or yellow. Leqs light brown or yellow proximally, with 

 a tendency to become darker, smoky or blackish, distally. Abdomen 

 pale mesally above from anterior end to spinnerets, a faint lanceolate 

 outline in basal part ; a black spot over each antero-lateral angle, 

 followe<l or not with a number of other dark spots so as to form a 

 dark border each side of dorsum; venter and lower portion of sides 

 immaculate. 



Fdcc low, strongly slanting outward, evenly convexly rounde<l 

 laterally. 



i'ii-st row of eyes a little shorter than the second, weakly procurved, 

 anterior median eyes larger than the lateral, considerably closer to the 

 lateral than to each other. 



Kjniiynum wider than long; septum wide anteriorly, evenly arche<l 

 ventrally; fovea; oval, obliquely and well caudally place<l, suggesting 

 an approach to the Allocosa type. 



Total length. 7 nun. Length of cephalothorax. 8.2 mm.; width, 

 2.2 mm. 



Length of leg I.fi.Hmm.; tib. + i)at., 2.5 mm. ; taivtis. 1 nun. 



Length of leg II. (\.\ mm. 



Length of leg II I. 0.2 mm. 



Lrncth (jf leg I\'. 7.S nun. ; tib. + pat.,3n)m.; tarsus, 1.2 nun. 



Locality. — Florida. 




284 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF \}^&y , 



The genus ALLOCOSA Banks, 1900. 

 (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 537.) 



Cepfuilothorax glabrous or nearly so to sparsely pubescent. Anterior 

 tibia? armed beneath with three pairs of spines, of which the third pair 

 is apical in position and all of which are moderate to minute in size, 

 either armed or unarmed laterally. Anterior row of ei/cs straight to a 

 little procur\'ed, from longer to shorter than the second row; anterior 

 median eyes larger than the lateral, more or less; clypeus narrow, at 

 most as wide as the diameter of an anterior lateral eye; eyes of second 

 row of moderate size, much less than their diameter apart.; quadrangle 

 of posterior eyes trapeziform, Adder behind than in front. Labium 

 longer than wide, well attenuated anteriorly; basal excavation short, 

 about one-fourth the total length. Spinnerets veiy short, anterior and 

 post€rior pairs subequal in length. Epigynum simple, presenting no 

 true guide, or but weakly furrowed, the spermatheca opening free 

 posteriorly. Bulb of male palpus bearing a scopus which is exterior 

 in position. 



1812. Lijcosa Hentz (ad. part, junerea), J. Bost. Soc. Xat. Hist., 4, p. 228- 



299. 

 187.5. Lycosa Hentz (ad. part, junerea), Sp. U. S., p. 24. 

 1876. Lycosa Kevserling (ad. part, rugosa). Verb. z. b. Ges. AN'ien. pp. 610- 



624. 

 1S.SS. ? Tricca Simon, Ann. Ent. iSoc. Fr., p. 250. 



1890. Lycoxa Marx (ad. part, funerea and rugosa), Proc. V. S. X. M.. p. 12. 

 1890. Pardosa Stone (ad. part, riigra), Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 42, 



p. 432. 

 1894. Trochosa. Banks (ad. part, parva), J. N. Y. E. Soc, p. 52. 

 1898. Lycosa Simon (ad. part.), Hist. Nat. .\raipn., 2. 



. AuloniaC!) Banks, Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci., p. 273. 



1904. Allocosa Banks, Joum. N. Y. Ent. Soc, p. 113. 



Cepholothorax arched con vexly behind , strongly attenuated anteriorly ; 

 pars cephalica narrow and inchne<l anteriorly, rather low; face with 

 sides convex and sloping outward from above below; posterior eyes 

 seen from above well remove<l from sides of pars cephalica. CJeneral 

 appearance of cey^halothorax much like that of a Drassid. In the 

 known species the cephalothorax is entirely without distinct pale 

 stripes, or with a me<lian j)alor band weakly contrasting. 



Chelicera; rather weak ; lower margin of furrow armed with three 

 teeth, the superior with two. Legs short; posterior tarsi simply setose, 

 and the anterif)r either entirely setose or with sparse lines of scopular 

 hairs at the nuU-n. 



Excepting as to curvature of the anterior row of eyes, this genus is 

 much like most species of Simon's old geniis Tricca, now withdrawn 

 l)y its author into Lycosa. It has the same form of cephalothorax 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 285 



and shows the same tendency toward excessive reduction of the spines 

 of the anterior legs, these spines in some species of Tricca being entirely 

 absent from the tibiae (of, degesta, infra). In Tricca the anterior row 

 of eyes is always more or less recurved, while in Allocosa it is at most 

 straight. This difference may prove not to hold good. It may 

 become impossible ultimately to maintain this group separate from 

 Lycosa, the American species of which it closely approache.s through 

 the Trochosa group. 



Key to Species of Allocosa. 



1. All joints of legs except femora clear yellow, witiiout any darker 



annulations or markings except at ends of tibiiB IV, 



rugosa (Keys.). 

 Legs beyond femora more or less distinctly annulate with dark, 2. 



2. Anterior row of eyes longer than the second; anterior median eyes 



not more than one-fifth their diameter apart; anterior tibiae 

 armed neither in front nor behind, and the ventral spines minute, 



degesta Cliamb. 



Anterior row of eyes shorter than the second; anterior me<lian 



eyes their radius or nearly so apart; anterior tibiae armed in 



front and behind and the ventral spines longer, .... 3. 



3. Femora of first legs solid black above, a sub-ba.sal brown Ijand on 



the others, f imer ea {llcniz). 



Femora of first legs not solid black, niarkctl with three black 

 rings, 4. 



4. First pair of ventral spines of anterior tibiic reaching the bases of the 



me<lian pair, the basal spines in length equalling the diameter of 

 the joint; upper margin of furrow of chelicera with three teeth, 



parva (Bks.). 



First pair of ventral spines of anterior tibiie not reaciiing ba-ses 



of median pair; and none of the spines in length equalling the 



diameter of the joint; upper margin of furrow of chelicera with 



two teeth, cvagnta, sp. n. 



Alloooia rugosa (Keyscrling), 1870. 



(Vcrh. z. h. fJcs. Wion, 26, p. 624, PI. 7, fips. 9, lO.) 

 Female. — CephaJothorax shining black with obscure brown lines 

 radiating from above; sometimes with a brownisli luster; clypeus a 

 little paler, brownisji. Chelicera: l)lack. Labium, ctulilrs and coxcb 

 of legs beneath brown. Sternum brownish black. Legs with all 

 femora black, all other joint.'^ yellow or pale brown, except tiie pasterior 

 tibiiD which have a dark ring at each end. Abdomen with front 

 declivity and the sides blackish with some minute lighter dots; dorsum 

 obscure l)rown. black lines outlining a lanceolate mark at i)iu<e which is 

 continued behintl as a fine black median line with a row of black dots 

 1<) 




286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



on each side of it; outside these more median marks is on each side a 

 straight row of black spots which are in part confluent ; sides of dorsum 

 with obscure irregular dark markings; venter brown. Spiiinerets 

 and cpigynum brown. 



CheliceroB one and one-third times as long as the face is high; sides of 

 face convex and bulging outward below. Cephalothorax with its dorsal 

 line in profile convex, not much descending posteriorly and not con- 

 cavated at middle. 



Anterior row of etjes shorter than the second, distinctly procurved; 

 anterior median eyes, oval and diverging, their radius apart, hardly 

 half so far from the lateral eyes which are a little smaller, about half 

 their diameter from eyes of second row; anterior lateral eyes less than 

 their diameter (about two-thirds) from front margin of clypeus, a little 

 farther from eyes of second row; eyes of second row comparatively 

 low on face, a little more than half their diameter apart; cephalothorax 

 about 4.5 times as long as the quadrangle of posterior eyes. 



Epigynum nearly as in the next species (funcrca), but the median 

 part or lobe more convex. 



Total length, 5.6 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 2.G mm.; width, 

 1.9 mm. 



Length of leg I, 5.5 mm. ; tib. + pat., 1,9 mm. ; met., 1.2 mm. 



Length of leg II, 4.9 nun. 



Length of leg III, 4.9 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 7.8 mm. ; tib. + pat., 2.4 mm. ; met., 2.3 mm 



Male. — Coloration as in female excepting palpi which are entirely 

 black. 



Patella of palpi as long as or a little longer than the tibia which 

 thicken'^ distally and, seen from above, is some thicker than the pre- 

 ceding joint; tai-sus relatively narrow; not much broader tlian the 

 tibia, its apical part bent ventrad. For palpal organ see PI. XXIII, 



fig. 3. 



Total length, 4.5 mm. LengtJi of cephalothorax, 2.4 nun.; width, 

 1.8 mm. 



Length of log I, 5.2 nun.; tib. + pat., 2 nun.; met., 1 mm. 



Length of leg II, 4.7 mm. 



Length of leg III, 4.5 nun. 



Length of leg IV, 7.6 mm. ; tib. + pat., 2.7 mm. ; met., 2 mm. 



.Syn. — 1K90. Pardom nigra Stono, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., \c>l. 42, p. 



432, I'l. XV, figH. 4. 4a. 

 Non. Hvn. — 1S91. Lyrosn funrrm Unnks, Knt. New.s. 

 Syn. — H*(J2. Lyrom niijra, .NIontKoiiuTy, op. n't., p. .'j.T.S, PI. 29, fig. 1. 

 1904. Lycoaa nigra, Montgomery, Proc. Acad. ^at. Sci. Pliila., j). 285, P*I. 

 . XX, figs. 40, 41. _ 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 287 



Type locality. — Maniand (Baltimore). 



Known localities. — Maryland, Pennsylvania, District of Columbia!. 



AUooosa faiierea(Hentz), 1S42. 



(Sub Lycosa, Proc. Bost. Soc. Xat. Hist., -1, p. 393.) 

 Female. — CephalotJiorax shining reddish black becoming a little paler 

 above, the marginal lines deep black; clypeus pale, ChelicercB deep 

 reddish brown. Labium and cndites brown. Sternum dark brown, 

 blackish at borders. Cox(b of legs yellowish brown. Legs with ground 

 color brown of reddi.=!h tinge; femora of first pair of legs black, the 

 succeeding femora similar but pale beneath and with the black divided 

 above the proximal end by a brownish cros.s-band , this annulus becom- 

 ing more distinction the posterior legs, and the extreme distal end of 

 all femora pale; all tibitc witii a subbasal and a subapical ring of black; 

 metatarsi less distinctly annulate, there being a median annulus, often 

 more or less diffu.sed, and on posterior pairs also a subba-sal and a sub- 

 apical band. Abdomen appearing ))lack above and at sides, minutely 

 dotted with yellow; the dorsum in front paler, reddish yellow, the paler 

 area enclosing a lanceolate black-margincl outline, and followed 

 behind Ijv a row of light spots with black dots at center on each side, 

 these being connected in pairs by black angular cross-lines the angles of 

 which are directed backward ; opposed to the black cross-lines is a 

 series of liglit chevron-lines with angles forward ; venter pale brown, 

 immaculate or sometimes with a few short transverse marks along each 

 side. 



Form of cephalothorax and fcu:e much as in rvgosa. 



Anterior row of eyes a little shorter than the second, gently procurved ; 

 anterior median eyes their radius or a little more apart, closer to the 

 lateral eyes wiiich are but slightly smaller, Ic^s than their radius from 

 eyes of second row; anterior lateral eyes less than their diameter from 

 eyes of second row; eyes of second row their radius apart, rather le5ss 

 than more; quadrangle of posterior eyes as wide in front a^ long, the 

 cephalothorax 5.5 times longer; eyes of third row unusually small. 

 iMbium lf)nger than wide (5.3 :4.8); basal excavation one-fourth total 

 length ; sides slightly convex, strongly converging distally ; front margin 

 convexly roundctl, more rarely straight. 



For spines of anterior tibiie see IM. X, fig, 3, 



The epiyyuum nearly identical in form with that of .1. degcsta (PI. 

 XXIII, fig. 5). 



Total length, 5.2 nun. Length of ccphalotiiorax, 2.7 mm.; width, 

 2 mm. 




288 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^^ay, 



Length of leg I, 6 mm. ; tib. + pat., 2 mm. ; met., 1.2 mm. 



I-/ength of leg II, 5.7 mm. 



Length of leg III, 5.3 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 8.25 mm. ; tib. + pat., 2.5 mm. ; met., 2.4 mm, 



Svn. — 1875. Lycosa funerea Hentz, J. Bost. Soe. Nat. Hist., 4, p. 393. 



1890. Lycosa funerea. .Marx, Proc. U. S. N. M., 12. 



1897. Lycosa funerea. Banks, Proc. Ent. Soc. W., 4. 



1902. Lycosa sublata Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Pliila., 539. 



1904. Trochosa sublata, Montgomerj', ibid., p. 308. 



Type locality. — Alabama. 



Knoicn localities. — Alabama, Georgia!, Louisiana!. 

 "This species abounds on the ground. It has the habits of a Her- 

 pyllus, and runs with great rapidity " (Hentz). 



Allocosa degesta Chamberlln, 1904. 

 (Can. Entomologist, p. 287.) 



Female. — Cephalothorax shining black of reddish luster. Cheliceros 

 the same. Labium and endites brown. Legs nearly as in funerea, but 

 light marks on femora more obscure and less contrast on other joints 

 between the light and dark rings. Sternum reddish brown, dark 

 about margins, lighter, more yellowish, over middle area. Abdomen 

 above nearly as in funerea; venter yellow "with a few faint dark dots at 

 sides. Spinnerets yellow. Epigynum brown, weakly reddish at 

 borders. 



Chdiceroe nearly twice as long as the face is high. Anterior row of 

 eyes a Uttle longer tiian the second, nearly straight, anterior median 

 eyes much larger tlian the lateral (at least 3 : 2), at most one-fifth their 

 diameter apart, still closer to the lateral eyes, not fully one-third their 

 diameter from eyes of second row; anterior lateral eyes not fully their 

 diameter from front margin of clypeus, some closer to eyes of second 

 row; anterior me<lian eyes three-fourths as large as those of second 

 row (ri. X, fig. 2); eyes of second row about their radius apart; 

 quaflrangle of posterior eyes as wide in front as long, only onc-si.\th as 

 long as cephalothorax. Spines of anterior tibia* greatly reduced, 

 minute, none at all on cither anterior or posterior side of joint (PI. 

 X, fig. 1). 



Epigynum nearly the same as that of funerea (PI. XXIII, fig. 5). 



Total length, C.6 mm. Length of cpplialothorax, 3.2 mm.; width, 

 2.25 mm. 



Length of leg I, 7.2 mm.; tib. 4- pat., 2.5 mm.; met., LG mm. 



I^ength of leg II, G.3 mm. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 289 



Length of leg III, 6.3 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 9.4 mm.; tib, + pat., 3 mm.; met., 2.8 mm. 



Syn. — 1904. tTrochosa nociuabunda, Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., p. 301. 



Locality. — Louisiana. 



One mature and one immature female collected at Baton Rouge by 

 Mr. B. H. Guilbeaux, 



Allocosa parva( Banks), 1894. 



(Sub Trochosa, J. X. Y. Ent. Soc, II, p. 52.) 



Male. — Cephalotlwrax with a wide paler median band, anteriorly 

 wider than eye area; eye region blackish; sides deep brown to shining 

 black; a row of indistinct dots on each side; the paler band clothed 

 with sparse gray pubescence, especially anteriorly; dark parts with 

 sparse gray and bruwn hairs intermixed ; tending to be glabrous except 

 about eyes and face. Cheliccrcc refJdish brown. Lnbium and endites 

 brown. Sternum blackish, brown at middle and along sides clothed 

 wth gray pubescence and long blackish bristles. Coxce of legs beneath 

 yellow. Laja yellow with distinct black rings on all joints except tarsi. 

 Abdomen above grayish or yellowish gray, being clothed with light 

 gray and some yellow hair; dorsum at base with a black lanceolate 

 outline and behind with a number of black chevron-shaped marks 

 and also laterally with some dark spots; venter gray, immaculate. 

 Spinnerets brown. Palpi brown, not ringe<l, the tarsi darker than 

 other joints. 



Cephalothorax wide behind and much narrowed anteriorly, being 

 only aijout one-half as wide across eyes as beliind. Fare with sides 

 convex and slanting, in height one-half the length of the chelicerje; 

 in profile dorsal line is seen to be highest near third eye row, and 

 gently convex between eyes and posterior declivity. 



Anterior row of eyes slightly procurve^l, as long as the second row; 

 anterior ine<lian eyes clearly larger than the lateral, more than their 

 ra<lius apart, close to lateral eyes; anterior lateral eyes their diameter 

 from front margin of clypeus and from eyes of second row ; eyes of second 

 row not large, nearly their diameter apart ; quarlrangle of posterior eyes 

 one-fifth the length of ccpiialotliora.x. 



Tarsi and metatarsi of the first and second pairs of legs scopulate as 

 usual; tarsi of the third and fourth pairs setose, not at all .scopulate; 

 patella of second legs armed in front with a single spine; tibia + patella 

 of fourth legs a little shorter than cephalotiiorax, longer than meta- 

 tarsi of ff)urth leg; patella of third leg of about the same length as the 




290 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY' OF [May, 



tibia; metatarsus of first leg longer than tibia of first; femur of fourth 

 leg about same length as width of cephalothorax. 



Patella of palpus clearly longer than the tibia; tarsus not fully as 

 long as the tibia 4- patella. 



For structure of palpal organ see PI. XX, fig. 7. 



Total length, 6 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 3 mm.; width, 

 2.1 mm. 



Length of leg I, 6.5 mm. ; tib. + pat., 2.1 mm. ; met., 1.4 mm. 



Length of leg II. 5.8 nmi. 



Length of leg III, 6.1 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 8.4 mm.; tib. + pat., 2.8 mm.; met., 2.3 mm. 



Female. — Coloration similar to that of male. 



Epigynum of general type of that of funerea, but epigj'nal plate 

 more elongate and more strongly narrowed at posterior end ; with 

 posterior margin concave or indented mesally, not bowed caudally. 



Total length, 8.5 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 3.4 mm.; width, 

 2.7 mm. 



Length of leg I\', 0.7 mm. ; tib. 4- pat., 3.1 mm. ; met., 2.8 mm. 



189.=). Trochosa jxirm Banks. .Ann. X. Y. .\cad. Sci.. Vol. VIII, p. 430. 

 19(J1. Trochosa parva, Bank.s, Proc. Acad. Nat. 8ci. Phila., p. 587. 

 1902. Trochosa parva, Banks, Proc. U. S. N. M., p. 217. 



Type locality. — Colorado. 



Knoum localities. — Colorado!, Arizona, Xew Mexico!, Utah!. 



Allocosa eva^ata cp. nov. 



FemnU. — Ccpludothorax blackish brown; rather paler above; on 

 each side a marginal line of clear black; in front of dorsal furrow a 

 faint polygonah figure outlined in black, with an angle in middle of 

 front maririn pnMluce<l toward eye region as a line and a simihir one on 

 each side pro<biced obliquely along side of pars cephalica; tlic cephalo- 

 thorax rather paler in front of this figure than elsewhere; color deeper 

 about eyes. Chdiccriv ro<ldish brf)wn. an indistinct blackish mark 

 across middle which mesally continues obli(iucly upward on inner 

 face. Legs yellow with distinct dark rings of which there are three on 

 the femora, the apical one being about twice as broad as the others; 

 these rings incomplete above but continuous laterally and ventrally. 

 The second and third rings on femora 1\' are confluent along the antero- 

 dorsal side. The tibiin eacli with two dark rings, of which at least the 

 distal oric is interrupte<l above. The metatarsi with three indistinct 

 ring.s. Jytbinm, cndite^, cox(c and sternum yellow, the labium and 

 sternum dusky. Front part of dorsum ftf abdoiiicii ol)scure reddish 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



yellow, this area embracing some small, ill-<lefine<l dark dots. Pos- 

 teriorly are pairs of ocellate light spots which are united transversely 

 by inverse chevron-lines, between which are indicated pale chevron- 

 lines with the apices directed forward. The dorsum elsewhere and the 

 sides covered with a dense network of black over the obscure yellow 

 background, i.e., appearing black marked with numerous small dots 

 of yellow. \'enter yellow with some short trans^'erse marks of dark 

 color toward the sides. Epigynum reddish yellow. Spinnerets yellow. 



First row of eyes evidently shorter than the second. Anterior 

 me<lian eyes larger than the lateral (4 : 3), at most their radius apart, 

 half as far from the lateral eyes. Anterior lateral eyes a little less than 

 their tliameter from front margin of clypeus, two-thirds their diameter 

 from* eyes of second row. Eyes of second row two-thirds their diam- 

 eter apart. Dorsal eye area of same length as the widtli in front 

 which is but little less than that behind, the area being subquad rate. 

 Doi-sal eye area one-fourth as long a.s the cejjhalothorax. 



Legs of but moderate length. Tibia + patella 1\' shorter than the 

 cephalothorax, longer than the metatarsus. Metatarsus IV some 

 longer than tibia + patella of leg I. Spines of anterior tibiie rather 

 short, slender and prone. None of the tai-si truly scopulate, sparsely 

 clothed with bristles of ordinary form. 



Lower margin of furrow of chelieerce with three teeth as in Lyeosa. 

 the teeth conical and well spacetl, the meilian one being largest. The 

 upper margin with but two teeth which are stout and conical, the first 

 being larger than the second and also larger than those of the lower 

 margin which are of about same size as the secoml one above. 



Labium att€nuate<l anteriorly, its front margin concave. 



For structure of epigynum see PI. XXIII, fig. 4. 



Total length, 5.2 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 2.8 mm.; width, 

 2 nun. 



Length of leg 1,0.1 nun.; tib. + pat., 2 mm.; met., LiJ nun. 



I^'ugth of leg II, 5.8 mm. 



Ix?ngth of leg III, 5.8 mm. 



liCngth of leg IV, 7.5 nun. ; tib. + pat., 2.5 nun. ; mot.. 2.2 mm. 



Syn. — 1898. AutonUiC!) junerea Banks, Proc. Cal. .V-mX. Sii., p. 273. 



Ijocnlity. — Haja California. 



Described from a specimen Ioano<l by California .Acaflcmy of Sciences 

 and bearing label by lianks of Aidoniu{t) funerea Htz. 



Whih' not yet rcportod actually from within our b<inici-s, the fi)rra 

 will doubtles.s be foiuid to occur in the Southwest and is therefore 

 included. 




292 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [M^Yr 



(r)Allooosa ezalbida L. B«cker. 1881. 

 {Loc. sup. cit., figs. 3, 3a, 36.) 



Only figures were published. A pale species about 11 mm. long, 

 with very long legs. The figure of the eyes would seem certainly to 

 prove this species not to be a Lycosa. The epigynum is not that either 

 of Lycoaa or a Pardosa, being like that of some Piratas and much like 

 that of AUocosa (funerea). 



The eyes also resemble those of this latter genus, but this form is 

 place*! here witii much doubt. 



Locality. — Xew Orleans. 



The genus SOSIPPUS E. Simon, 1888. 



(Ann. Ent. Soc. Fr., p. 205.) • 



Entire body densely clothed ^\-ith rather long pubescence. Anterior 

 tibicB armed beneath with three pairs of spines which are basal, malian 

 or submedian, and apical in position respectively; these spines long 

 and apically slender and aculeate, much longer than the diameter 

 of the joint (PI. XI, fig. 4). Anterior eyes well separated, equi- 

 distant or very nearly so; the lateral ones on protruding tubercles, 

 as large as or (as in ours) larger than the median; the anterior row 

 longer than the second (PI. XI, fig. 2); clypeus as \vide as the 

 diameter of an anterior lateral eye; eyes of second row considerably 

 less than their diameter apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes trapeziform, 

 distinctly broader behind than in front. ChelicercB armed below with 

 four stout conical teeth. Labium longer than wide, the basal excava- 

 tion (in ours) one-third the total length. Posterior spinnerets dis- 

 tinctly and considerably longer than the anterior, the second joint 

 of the former being long and conical (PI. XI, fig. 5). Epigynum 

 with a guide which in the known species is subclavately enlarged dis- 

 tally (PI. XXIII, fig. 2). Alveolar area of male palpus compara- 

 tively small ; a simple (in ours) process from basal lobe present in an 

 exterior position, extending distally and free except at ba-se; no pit or 

 fold at base of process (PI. X.XIII, fig. 1). 



Svn.— 189S. Sosippns Simon, Hist. Nat. .\raiKn., 2, p. 326. 

 1902. SoHippiiK Vnm\}ni\)i,<' Moil. (V-iit. .\iner., pp. 315-332. 

 1003. Conwlock, Clius.sif. ot N. ,\. Spiders. 



Cephalothorax long and rather low, the pars cephalica not elevated. 

 F<ice roundwl forward to the front eye row, the clyj)eus from above 

 below more or less retro-oblique, its sides convex and slanting out > ard 

 (Pi. XI, fig. 4). (2"'i*' wangle of posterior eyes ono-fifth as long as 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



the cephalothorax. Chelicerce lonfz; ami robust, the uj)per margin armetl 

 as usual with three teeth of which tlie mecliaii one is much stoutest ; 

 in the armature of the lower margin of the furrow with four stout teeth 

 the genus resembles Dolomedes; the statement made by Simon that the 

 two middle teeth of the lower margin are longer than the others does 

 not hold for S. floridanus, in which the fourth tooth is distinctly long- 

 est; in immature specimens sometimes but three teeth are pr&sent on 

 the lower margin. Legs with the tarsi and metatarsi densely and 

 widely scopulate for their entire lengths from base to apex, the scopulse 

 long; the scopuhc of the posterior pairs divided by a median narrow 

 line of bristles; distal joints of legs with long aculeate bristles. 



Spiders of large size, in general appearance similar to Lycosa. In 

 the character of the mouth parts they suggest some of the Pisauridn'. 

 In tiie structure of the spinnerets and in the color markings of the 

 abdomen and especially in habits they show close affinities with the 

 Agelenidcc. The habits of the species of this genus so far as observed 

 are very similar to those of Ilippasa and Porrimn, the two most closely 

 related genera. The three genera are all composed of species which are 

 sedentary in habit, building large webs of fine silk with a central funnel- 

 shaped tuljular retreat, precisely as do the Agelenas and other AgclcnuUv. 

 In rushing out to seize their entangled prey they run upon the lower 

 surface of the web. Like other Lijcnsidce, however, they suspend their 

 cocooas to the spinnerets where they are niaintaine<l constantly, never 

 depositing them upon the web. They do not desert their webs during 

 the cocooning season. According to Cambridge, the movements of a 

 Sosippiis which he observed upon the Amazon were excee<iingly quick, 

 like those of Agelcna. 



Sosippiis is known <m\y from the America.s, iiaving been found in 

 Florida, Lower California, .Mexico, Central America and Brazil. Hut 

 one species occurs within our limits. 



Sosippus floridanai Simnn. 



Female. — Cepfuilolhomx deep reddish brown or reddish black with- 

 out distinct light markings in the tegument; behind the eye region a 

 mwlian stripe of j'ellow hair and on each siile a witler marginal band of 

 whit<i hair intenni.xed anteriorly with some of yellow color, these 

 nmrginal bands extending forwaril to the clypeus but not joining across 

 it; pubescence elsewhere dark. Chdiccnc shining black sijaix-ly 

 clothed above with blackish hair and dcn-sely clothed below with gray- 

 ish-bnnvn hair of which there is a fringe along the furrow. Ldbiiim 

 and crulitts rather dark re<ldish brown, paler di.stally. SUrnum red- 




294 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^lay, 



dish-brown, tlie coxce of legs a little paler and less reddish, clothed 

 with cinereous hair intermixed with longer brown bristles. Legs 

 fuscous, varie<.l with some reddish-brown lines and marks, the femora 

 darker tiian the other joints clothed with brown and cinereous 

 pubescence. Abdomen blackish above, the venter brown; on each 

 side of tlorsum a row of spots of white hair and the median part of 

 dorsum behind crossed by narrow white lines similarly formed by 

 pubescence; outer part of doi-sinn and sides densely covered with 

 minute spots and streaks of white hair; venter densely clothed with 

 brown and cinereous hair, two darker lines converging from the epigy- 

 num backward and imitiiig before attaining the spinnerets, these lines 

 being covered with the dark hair unmixed. 



Face with the sides convex and widely slanting, in height only about 

 half as great as the length of the chelicerae. 



Anterior row of eyes clearly longer than the second, rather strongly 

 procur\'ed ; anterior median eyes some less than their diameter apart, and 

 less than their diameter from eyes of second row; anterior lateral eyes a 

 little larger than the median, their tubercles prominent, their diameter 

 from front margin of clj^Deus, fully one and one-third their diameter from 

 eyes of second row; eyes of second rowlarge, two-thirds their diameter 

 apart ; quadrangle of posterior eyes half again as wide behind as in front, 

 a little more than one-fifth the length of the cephalothorax (4.8 : 1). 

 Lower margin f)f furrow of chclicercv with the teeth near!}' e{|uiclistant, 

 the fourth evidently largest. Labium but slightly longer than broad 

 (I'i : 12.8); basal excavation one-third length of labium; sides below 

 hardly converging, but above strongly rounding and converging; 

 front margin very slightly widely concavate to straight (1*1. XI, 

 fig. 1). Legs with tibia; armed as described imder the genus, the two 

 basal pairs long and sieiulcr, apically bristle-like, tlie ajMcal pair stout 

 and abruptly pointe*! (]']. XI, fig. 4); tarsi, nietatai-si and distal 

 part of tibiaj 1 and II densely scopulate, the posterior ones differing as 

 usual. For spinnerets see IM. XI, fig. 5. 



For the .structure of the cpigi/num .see I'l. XXII I, fig. 2. 



Total length, 14.2 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 7 nun.; width, 

 5 mm. 



lycngth of leg I, 17. S mm.; lib. -f pat., G.l mm.; met., I mm. 



Ivcngth of leg II. Hi inm. 



Length of leg III, L'),5 mm. 



Lengtli of leg I\', 22.'.Mnm.; tib. -f pat., 7 mm.; met., O.L' nun. 



McUe.—Coloralion an in the female, or a little lighter; palpus clothed 

 with fulvo-cinereous pubescence. 




lOOS.] NATURAL SriE\Cr:S ok PHILADELPHIA. 295 



Tibia of palpus longer than the patella, the tai"siis nearly equalling 

 the combined length of the two preceding joints; tareus much wider 

 than the tibia (3 : 2). For structure of the palpal organ see PI. 

 XXIII. fig. 1. 



Total length, 11.2 mm. Length of cephalothorax, G nniL; width, 

 4.2 mm. 



Length of leg I, 18.5 mm.; tib. + pat., 6.3 mm. ; met., 4 mm. 



Length of leg II, 18 mm. 



Length of leg III, 17.8 mm. 



Length of leg'H', 23.7 mm. ; tib. + pat., 7.1 mm. ; met., 7 mm. 



Locality. — Florida !. 



The female described above is one of the type specimens. 



The genus TEABEA Simon, 1876. 



(.\rachn. Fr., 3, p. 350.) 



Anterior ti!)ia^ and metatarsi armed beneath with ver\' long spines 

 which are nuich longer than the diameter of the joint; of these spines 

 there are on the tibise tiiree or four paire (IM. XII, fig. 2). An- 

 terior eyes in a very strongl}'' procurved row wiiich is shorter than the 

 second; anterit)r median eyes much closer to each other than to the 

 lateral whicii are but little or sometimes not at all smaller; clypeus 

 narrow, the anterior lateral eyes being separated from its front margin 

 by their diameter or but little more, always farther from the eyes of 

 second row; eyes of second row at uj)per exterior angles of face, strongly 

 convex and protruiling, less than their diameter apart; eyes of third 

 row likewise strongly conv'ex, divergent, facing outward and backward, 

 quadrangle of j)osterior eyes but little wider behind than in front. 

 iMbium wide, attenuated anteriorly, the basal excavation short. 

 Posterior .s;>^/mcrd« (at least in ours) evidently longer than the anterior, 

 the second joint distinct though not Iting. Epiijynum with a guide; 

 in ours, strongly chitinize<l only on each side about the spermathecal 

 oponinirs, elsewhere less dense, clothed witli hair jis tegument elsewhere. 

 .Male palpus bearing a scopus in a me<lian position ; btisal spur extremely 

 large, much longer than the erect branch (in ours), 



Syn, — 1885. Aulonia Enicrton (.1. uurnntiaca), Tr. ('<»nii. Acad. St-i., 0, p. 



498. 

 189S. Trnhirn Simon, Hi.st. Nat. Araipi., 2, p. 319. 

 HKJ3. Trabiiii ("oni.stock, (.'lahsincatioii of .Nortli .\nnTiraii Spidore. 



I'ars cephalica long, but little inclifunl anteriorly. Sides of face 

 straight and vertical or nearly so; face protruding above over its basal 

 |>ortion (1*1. XII, fig. 1). (Quadrangle of posterior cyvs relatively 




296 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^lav, 



long. Posterior eyes seen from above touching or protruding be5'^ond 

 tlie lateral margins of pars cephalica (PI. XI, fig. 8). Chelicerce 

 with tlie lower margin armed cither ^^•ith two or with three teeth, the 

 upper with three. Legs rather long; tarsi either very sparsely scopu- 

 late on anterior pairs or the scopulae quite absent. 



Spiders of small size, readily distinguished by the extreme convexity 

 of the eyes of the second and third rows and by the strongly procurved 

 first row with its me<lian ej'es closer to each other than to the lateral. 

 The xer}' long straight spines of the anterior legs form a i)rominent 

 feature. The quadrangle of posterior eyes is relatively much longer 

 than in any other known Xorth American Lycosidoe. 



Trabea aurantiaoa (Emerton), 1885. 



(Trans. Conn. Acad. Sci., 6, p. 499, PI. 49, figs. G to 66.) 

 Female. — ^Sides of cephalothorax black or blackish brown ; a bright 

 yellow supramarginal band on each side extending fons'ard to the 

 clypeus and touching the inferior edges of eyes of second and third 

 rows; a yellow median band nearly as wide as third eye row just 

 behind the latter, extending broadly between the third eyes nearly to 

 those of second row, posteriorly rapidly narrowing to a point at the 

 dorsal groove over which it is obscure or absent, becoming again 

 visible on the posterior declivity on which it begins above at a point 

 and widens clavately downward to the posterior margin; eyes sur- 

 rounde<^l by i^lack; clypeus yellow. Chelicerce smoky brown or blackish 

 above, yellowish distally. iMbium and endites brown, often dusky, 

 pale distally. Sternum and cnxfc of legs 3'^ellow to brown. Legs with 

 background yellow; femur I black; femur II hke I, but with the black 

 more or less broken by yellow, especially so above; the posterior femora 

 more largely yellow, the black marks often faint; patella; dark or 

 black distally; til)ia; with a basal and an apical dark ring, and the 

 metatarsi more or less darkened at proximal end ; the markings of all 

 these joints becoming more indistinct or disappearing on the posterior 

 pairs, the last pair being often doar bright yellow. Abdomen orange- 

 brown, the sides marketl by a series of parallel l)lack bars which pass 

 obliquely downward and caudad, the most anterior of which on each 

 side iK'uds forward across the corresponding antero-lateral angle; these 

 black bara connecUHl at upper ends on each side by narrow angular 

 lines with angles directed mesa<l ; the.se angles, excepting the first, are 

 connected into i)airs by l)lu(k chevron-lines across doi-sum; anterior 

 area of dorsum showing more indistinctly a lanceolate figure outlined 

 by a fine black line; venter mimarkcil o\co[)t for a narrf)w iinvardly 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 297 



bending dark line each side of middle, the two of which are united by a 

 cross-bar just at base of spinnerets. Spinnerets dusky orange. Epigy- 

 num reddish brown about spermathecal openings, elsewhere concolor- 

 ous with the venter. 



Pars ccphalica long and liigh, highest anteriorly and A'Lsibly descend- 

 ing caudad to the pars thoraciea. ChelicercB a little longer than height 

 of face. Anterior row of eyes as describe<l for genus ; anterior median 

 eyes two-thirds their diameter apart, fully their diameter from the 

 lateral eyes which are about two-thirds as large, their diameter from 

 eyes of second row; anterior lateral eyes their diameter or some less 

 from front margin of clypeus, one and one-half times their diameter 

 from eyes of second row; quadrangle of posterior eyes one-third or more 

 the length of tlie cephalothorax (PI. XI, fig. 8). Lower margin of 

 the furrow of cheliccrce armed with two stout conical teeth which are 

 subequal ; upper margin with three teeth of usual character. Labium 

 clearly wider than l(;ng (5 : 4); the basal excavation Uttle or not at all 

 more than one-fifth the total length; sides strongly converging anter- 

 iorly; front margin truncate or slightly convexly rounded. Legs hav- 

 ing tarsi bent or curved down at distal end but not at base as in male; 

 tarsi sparsely setose and scopulte entirely absent. I'osterior spinnerets 

 widely separated ; distinctly longer than the anterior, but in alcohol 

 often bent toward each other and then inconspicuous; the second 

 joint distinct but short, bluntly pointed. 



For form of epigynum .see PI. XII, fig. 2. 



Total length, 3.4 mm. Length of cephalothorax, l.C mm.; width, 

 1 mm. 



I-«ngth of leg I, 4 nun. ; tib. + pat., 1.4 mm.; met., .95 nun. 



Length of leg II, 3.8 mm. 



Length of leg III, 3.8 nun. 



Length of leg IV, 5.5 mm. ; til). + pat., 1.7 nun. ; met., 1.5 mm. 



Male. — Lighter than female, markings of legs (excepting the anterior 

 femora) and of abdomen less distinct or alxsent. l\ilpi black; the 

 tip of tarsus yellow, in life clothe<l, like legs, with white hair 



All tarsi of legs distinctly curved downwartl distally, the anteri(»r 

 ones strongly so, those of the third and fourth pail's also bent at 

 proximal end. Palpus with the sides of tibiie parallel, not at all 

 enlarge<l <listally; tibia longer than jjatella by one-fourtii its length; 

 tarsu.s of about same length as tibia + pat^'lla, much wiilcr than tho 

 tibia (4 : 2.5). 



I'or palpal organ (drawn out from alveolus) see PI. XII, fig. 3. 



Total length, 2. G mm. Length of cephalothorax, L5 mm.; width, 

 1 mm. 




298 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^lay, 



Length of leg I, 3.6 mm. ; tib. + pat., 1.3 mm. ; met., 9 mm. 



I>ength of leg II. 3.4 mm. 



Length of leg 111, 3.3 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 4.8 mm.; tib. + pat., Lo mm.; met., 1.5 mm, 



SxTi. — 1S90. Aiihmia auranliaca, Marx, Proc. U. S. N. M., 12. 



1S92. Aulvnia auraniiaca, Marx, Proc. Ent. Sor. W., 2. 



1S92. Aulonia auranliaca. Banks, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 44, p. 73. 



1S9S. Trabea auranliaca, Simon, Hist. Nat. Araign., 2. 



Type locality. — Massachusetts and Connecticut. 

 Known localities. — Massachusetts!, Connecticut, New York, District 

 of Columbia!. 



The genus SOSILAUS Simon. 1898. 

 (Hist. Nat. d. Araign., Vol. 2, p. 350.) 



" Cephalothorax convex behind, in front long slanting and attenu- 

 ated, the face rather narrow, oblique and obtuse. Four anterior 

 eyes subcontiguous, in a gently recurved row, the median at least 

 twice as large as the lateral. Eyes of the second row moderate, approx- 

 imate, occupying a transverse space much narrower than the anterior 

 eye row (PI. XII, figs. 5, 6). Chelicera? rather weak, the inferior 

 margin of the furrow tridentate. Labium longer than wide, attenuated 

 and obtu.se. Logs rather long; tlie mctatai"si and tai-si slender and 

 long, not scopulate; anterior tibiic armed beneatli with 5-5 prone 

 spines and the metatarsi with 3-3 similar ones, there being smaller 

 lateral spines" (Simon). 



In the character of cephalothorax and eyes this genus is very similar 

 to Tricca and similarly much suggests Allocosa, from which it differs 

 most conspicuously in the armature of the anterior tibi». The 

 posterior eyes are situated upon a very oblique plane. The eyes of the 

 second row are relatively small. 



But one species of this genus is known and that by a single sj)ecimen 

 (.S. spinger E. S.). 



SjTi. — 1903. Sottilaus Comatock, Classification of North American Spiders. 



Sosilaui spiniger Simon, 1808. 



(Hist. Nut. AruiKi.., 2, p. 350.) 



"Length of male 3.7 mm.— ('(•i)hal()thorax fulvo-rufous, smooth 

 and s«ibglai)rous, a narrow marginal fuscous line and the j)ai"s thoracica 

 inarke<l irregularly with short radiating stripes. Abdomen fusco- 

 te^taceous, paler in front and Ik'Iow. Legs linid, tai-si infuscattHJ. 

 i'alpi lurid, the tarsus infuscatcd, sides parallel, setose with long 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 299 



bristles below; tibia a little longer than the patella, terete, gently 

 curved; tarsus shorter than the tibia with patella, narrowly ovate, 

 acuminate; bulb simple." 



Locality. — Louisiana. 



I have not found in collections from Louisiana and neighboring 

 States any specimens referable to this species, which remains known 

 only from M. Simon's diagnosis and comments. 



The genus PIKATA Sun.ievall. 1833. 

 (Subgenus sub Lycosa, Consp. Arachn. p. 24.) 



Body clothed sparsely with short haire, in life never cloaking and con- 

 cealing the tegument as is commonly the case in Pardosa and Lycosa. 

 Anterior tibiie in the female armed beneath with two paii-s of spines, 

 respectively basal and subme<lian in position, never with an apical 

 pair; these spines veiy long and overlapping, much longer than the 

 diameter of the article; rarely with three paii-s beneath, the third pair 

 midway between the median pair and the distal end of the joint; tibia? 

 in the male with the long spines as in the female, but in addition 

 with an apical pair (PI. X, fig. 7). Anterior row of eyes as long as 

 or but little shorter than the second, a little procurved or straight, 

 the eyes subequal or with the mtnlian a little larger than the lateral; 

 clypeiLS rather narrow, the anterior lateral eyes separated from its 

 front margin at most by their diameter, a little farther from eyes of 

 second row; eyes of the second row large, less than their diameter 

 apart; doi-sal eye area trapeziform, wider behind than in front. 

 Labium longer than wide, attenuate<l anteriorly in varying degrees; 

 basal excavation short, nearly always but one-fourth or less the length 

 of the labium, only rarely longer. Posterior spinnerets nuich longer 

 than the anterior, their second joint distinct and cf)nical. Epiyynum 

 presenting no true guide, usually consisting behind of two strongly 

 chitinize<l lobes or tubercles uj)on which arc the openings of the 

 spermatheca. liulb of male palj)iis with no true scoj)al fold or one 

 but slightly indicate<l; conductor as a conspicuous erect apophysis or 

 process, in a mostly mc^lio-apical position, and its principal l)ranch 

 reaching to or extending beyond the front margin of the alveolus; a 

 basal spur or i)ranch of consitlerable size always present on conductor; 

 the embolus small, short, nearly concealed usually; lunate plate very 

 large, one- third as long as the bulb. 



8yn. — 1848. I.iicohh subgcii. Pntamia C. Kocli, l)i«' Aracliii., 14, p. 98. 



1S76. Pirfi/« Simon, .\nicliii. Fr. 



1S7(). Piriila Ki'y.scrliiip. \'i>rli. z. b. C'lcs. Wicii, 20, p. 010. 



1S85. Pirata Eiiiertoii, Traiw. Conn. Acud. Hvi., 0, p. 402. 




300 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



ISOO. Pirata Marx, Proc. U. S. N. M., 12, p. 564. 



Lycosa Simon (ad. part), Hi.»jt. Xat. Araifoi., 2, 



1S9S. Lycosa Simon (ad. part), Hi.»jt. Xat. Araifoi., 2, p. 345. 



1902. Pirata Montg., Proc. Arad. Xat. Sci. Pliila., p. oSG. 



1903. Lycosa Comstock (ad. part.), Cla.s.s. X. A. Spiders, p. 51. 



1904. Pirata Cliamberlin, Can. Ent., p. 177. 



1904. Aulonia, Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Plula., p. 265. 



CephaloOwrax moderatel}' low; the ]->ars cephalica not elevated being 

 nearly level with the dorsal line of the pars thoracica, in front broadly 

 obtusely rounded, the sides rounded and considerabl}' sloping. Face 

 mostly low, much shorter than the length of the chelicerae, trapeziform, 

 the sides in most convexly rounded and widely sloping, rarely sub- 

 straight and very steep or nearly vertical, the eyes of second row more 

 or less distant from its upper exterior angles. Excei^t in the few 

 species with the sides of the face very steep, the posterior eyes when 

 viewed from above are removed from the lateral margins of the pare 

 cephalica bv more than their diameter as is the case in Lycosa 

 (PI. X, fig. 5). Quadrangle of posterior eyes one-fourth, or usually 

 less, the length of tiie cephalothorax, rarely longer. Chelicerce robust, 

 the lower margin with three teeth similar to those of Lycosa, but with 

 the third often conspicuously reduced as in Pardosa; upper margin 

 with three teeth of the usual character; fringe of hair of upper margin 

 more sparse than in Lycosa; posterior line with long but sparse hairs. 

 Legs robust; tarsi in most cases simply setose on all pail's, very rarely 

 with the anterior ones with thin lateral scopular lines as in Pardosa, 

 the bristles, however, being often serried (PI. X, fig. 7); tibiae- 

 patella of leg IV sometimes longer than, at others shorter than, the 

 cephalothorax, longer than the metatai-sus or more rarely of the same 

 length. The cephalothorax always presents a median pale stripe, 

 which begins on the posterior declivity as a narrow line and then con- 

 tinuously widens to the third eye row, there more abruptly widening, 

 pa'^sing below the posterior eyes of each side and attaining the clypeus; 

 the eyes are mostly upon black ; the median stripe encloses in its anterior 

 half a l)ifurcate or ^'-sllaped dark mark, the undivided median ]iart 

 being at the anterior end of the doi-sal fiuTow and sending an arm 

 fonvard to the inner margin of the third eye on each side (Pi. X, 

 fig. 5); marginal light stripes may or may not be present; many species 

 are markal on the abdomen with lines and spots of biiglit white hair. 



The Piratas are spiders of small or of nxxlium size. The males are in 

 mf>st cases as large as or larger than the females. 



In haljits they are much like the Pimuridw. Tlicy occur in damp 

 meatlows or more especially at the margins of streams, ponds and 

 other btxlics of water, upon which Ihcy run with great ease. Many 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 301 



forms in case of danger dive readily beneath the surface of the water 

 and hide under stones, leaves, etc., at the bottom. The cocoon is 

 carried about attached to the spinnerets, though when the females are 

 at rest it is commonly held in the chelicerie. The cocooas arc clear 

 white in color and spherical in shape, marked at the equator by a seam 

 less strong than that on the cocoons of Pardosa. The female con- 

 structs a temporar}' retreat under stones and other suitable places, 

 spinning a small irregular web of vcrj- delicate texture. The greater 

 length of the superior spinnerets would seem to be associated with 

 this web-spinning habit. 



Key to Species of Pirata. 



1. Lower margin of the furrow of the cheUcera; armed with but two 



teeth 2. 



liOwer margin of furrow armed with three teeth, 3. 



2. Cephalothorax less than 2 mm. long, yninutus Em, 



Cephalothorax 3 mm. or more long marxi Stone. 



3. Cephalothorax with no submarginal light .^tripes, . moiUanus Em. 

 Cephalothorax with submarginal light stripes 4. 



4. Cephalothorax less than 2 mm. long, or at most not longer, . 5. 

 Cephalothorax much more than 2 mm. long, 6. 



5. All joints of legs except tarsi distinctly ringed with black (female), 



aspirajis Chamb. 



Femora dark at distal ends, other joints of legs light, not at all 



marked with dark, humicolus Mtg. 



6. Cephalothorax in life or when diy showing on each side a marginal 



stripe of bright white hair 7 



Cephalothorax showing no such stripe insularisFAU. 



7. A black marginal stripe below each pale lateral stripe, 



piratica utahcnsis, new var. 

 No such black marginal line, jcbricidosa (Beck.). 



The key above does not include prodigiosa Keys, or bilobatus Tullg. 



Pirata minatas I'.mcrton, 1885. 



(Trans. Conn. Acad. Sci., G, p. 493, PI. 4S, figs. 10-lOc.) 

 Female. — Sides of cephalothorax dark brown to gray-brown ; a yellow 

 meilian stripe of more or less greenish hue which begins caudally 

 as a narrow line, but expands continuou.'^ly fonvard to the eye region, 

 continuing as a narrow stripe on each side below eyes to the clypeus as 

 usual; within the me<lian light band are two dark lines or narrow 

 stripes extending backward fnjm eyes of third row and uniting together 

 into one line at the dorsal groove, forming thus the typical \'-shaped 

 mark ; a marginal light strijje on each side with uneven upper border, 

 20 




302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^laV, 



not extending forward beyond tliird eye row; in life a marginal line of 

 white liair nuicli narrower than light stripe of the tegument with 

 which it is coextensive in length. Chelicera; black-brown, yellow 

 distally ; svibsparsely clothe<l with rather long light gray hail's. Labium 

 and emlites dark brt)wn. paler distally. Sternum deep brown to 

 blackish, in most cases with a yellow median line and a number of 

 yellow spots along each lateral margin; clothed with comparatively 

 long light gray hairs. Coxcc of legs beneath yellow. Leys light brown 

 or yellow, all joints excepting the tarsi annulate with black; the femora 

 have usually a submalian ring and a broader ring at distal end, the 

 latter sometimes partially divided by light; the tibiie and metatarsi 

 have a wide annulus at each end, leaving especiall}' on the tibias a 

 relatively narrow yellow ring at the middle; tibiae sometimes entirely 

 black. Abdomen above black, sometimes with and sometimes witliout 

 narrow lanceolate yellow mark at base; dorsum clothed with sparse 

 light brown or grayish hair, with a series of five or six spots of white 

 hair along each side for the entire length, and posteriorly with narrow 

 cross-lines of similar white hair, these lines sometimes indistinct; sides 

 a little paler tiian the dorsum, with some streaks and dots of white 

 pubescence; venter dark gray, more densely clothed with hair than the 

 sides and dorsinn, the hair being gray. Epigynum reddish brown, 

 usually nearly or quite concealed by long gray haii-s. Spinnerets dark 

 brown. 



Face but little more than two-thirds as high as the chelicera) are 

 long, sides substraight and nearly vertical as in Pardosa. 



Anterior row of eyes nearly as long as the second, more strongly pro- 

 curved than is usual in this genus; anterior median eyes about their 

 ra<lius apart, a little larger than tlie lateral ; anterior lateral eyes rather 

 le'vs than their diameter from front margin of clypeus, farther from 

 eyes of the second row; quadrangle of posterior eyes one-fourth the 

 length of the cephalotliorax. 



Lower margin of furntw of chelicera; witii but two teetii wliicji are 

 relatively long and slender, the second one a little smaller than the 

 first, the latter evidently representing the second of the three typically 

 present in the Lycosidtv. 



I/Cgs with tibia + patella of the fourth pair a little longer than ti)e 

 cephalotliorax, which is of the i^nun'. length as the metatai-sus of the 

 same legs; tibiie of first legs unne<I ventrall}' with a biu^al and a sub- 

 me<lian pair of spines which are very long, overlapping as usual, 



For structure of cpujynum see I'l. XXII, fig. 7. 



Total length, 3.3 mm. lA'ngth of cephalotliorax, l.S nini.; width, 

 1.3 mm. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 303 



Length of leg I, 4.5 mm. ; tib. + pat., 1.6 mm. ; met., 1 mm. 



Length of leg II, 4.4 mm. 



Length of leg III, 3.8 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 6.3 mm. ; tib. + pat., 2 mm. ; met., 1.8 mm. 



Male. — Femora of firet two pah-s of legs black, others (lusky yellow; 

 aU other joints clear yellow, without indications of any dark marks; 

 palpi entirely black, except the patellre which often arc paler above; 

 coloration otherwise nearly as in female, but in general darker. 



Tibia of palpus considerably longer than patella, and narrower 

 than tarsus; main process of apophysis of conductor with its upper 

 half bent outward at right angles to lower half at or a little in front 

 of front margin of alveolus; basal spur ending apically in an acute 

 point (PI. XXI, fig. 9). 



Total length, 2.9 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 1.6 mm.; width, 

 1 mm. length of leg I, 4.4 mm. 



Syn. — 1890. Pirata minuta Em., Banks, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sri. Phila. 44 

 p. 72. 



Pirata exujua Banks, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 44, p. 72, PI. 1, fig. 48. 



1890. Pirata minuta Km., Marx, Proc. V. S. X. M., 12, p. 5M. 



Non-sjTi. — 1892. Pirata minuta Em., Pox, Proc. Ent. Soc. W. 



SjTi. — 189S. Pirata minutus Em., Simon, Hist. Nat. Araign., II, p. 33-^. 



Type locality. — Massachusetts and Connecticut. 



Known localities. — Massachusetts!, Connecticut, New York (Ithaca!). 



I have found females of this species with egg-sacs fairly conunon in 

 certain damp meadows about Ithaca, New Vork, late in the sununer. 

 A few were taken at the margins of ponds. The male above described, 

 from Massachusetts, was kindly loaned me by Mr. J. II. I'jiu'rton. 



Pirata aipirans Chambcrlin, 1904. 



(Can. Knt., Vol. XXXVI, p. 280.) 

 Female. — Sides of cephalothorax dark brown cro.sse<l by radiating 

 lines of l)lack; a pale me<lian l)and beginning at posterior margin 

 narrows to caudal end of thoracic furrow, then widens gradually to 

 eyes of third row where it more or less abruptly widens and encloses the 

 eye area, l)elow which on each side it attains the clypeus its usual; 

 within the me<lian pale band a metlian line at front of furrow bifurcates, 

 sending a branch to eyes of each side as usual; eyes surrounde<l by 

 black; clypeus yellow; a marginal baml of yellow on each side, liiniled 

 below by a line of black, these side stripes extending forward only to 

 of)posite the third eyes. Chclicene re<ldish yellow, smoky over middle 

 region and with branching lines of black over i)asul area. lAihium 

 v<H(.\v. KmlUts yellow above, and darker, dusky-brown below. 




304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Sternum and coxa; of legs beneath immaculate yellow. Legs yellow; 

 all joints except the tarsi more or less distinctly banded with black 

 rings ; these dark rings on femora of first legs confluent and also semi- 

 confluent on other joints; femora with four rings, of which the apical 

 one may be indistinct. Dorsum of abdomen black, at sides minutely 

 punctate with yellow; at base a lanceolate yellow mark, on each side of 

 which just behind middle is a small ovate yellow spot with black dot at 

 center, and each side of apex a larger triangular yellow spot; behind is a 

 series of yellow transverse bowed or chevron-shaped transverse marks 

 which become successively shorter caudad, the last few being diamond 

 shaped and contiguous b}^ their apices; sides of abdomen above like 

 sides of dorsum, but below becoming more and more yellow, the black 

 being first reduced to spots and then quite disappearing at venter; 

 venter yellow, dusky in front of the genital furrow and also with a 

 dusky interrupted median band extending back from epigynum two- 

 thirds the distance to the spinnerets, and on each side of venter a 

 narrow irregularly edged black line which does not extend all the way to 

 the spinnerets behind. Spinnerets yellow. Epigynum reddish j'ellow. 



Sides of face of moderate steepness; face a little more than half as 

 high as the chelicera? are long. Seen in profile, the dorsal line of the 

 cephalothorax is straight and horizontal or nearly so between the eyes 

 and the posterior decUvity, the pars cephalica not being elevatetl at all 

 above the pars thoracica. Lower margin of furrow of chelicera with 

 three teetli, of which the middle one is much stoutest and longest, the 

 first one clearly the smallest; the upper margin with three teeth of the 

 usual proportions. Labium slightly longer than broad (5 : 4.8), 

 four and five-tentlis times longer than its basal excavation strongly 

 converging anteriorly; anterior margin indented mesally with its side 

 parts convexly rounded. Legs with tibia -f- patella of the fotu'th pair 

 much longer than the ceplialothorax, which is of the same length as the 

 tibia + patella of the first pair; spines of anterior tibia; very long, 

 those of the first pair to or a little beyond the middle of tlie joint. 



Anterior row of eyes but sliglitly procurved, shorter than the second ; 

 anterior median eyes about two-thirds their diameter apart, closer to 

 the lateral eyes which arc two-thirds as large, hardly two-thirds their 

 diameter from eyes of .second row; anterior lateral eyes tiiree-fourths 

 their diameter from front margin of clypeus, their diameter or slightly 

 more from eyes of sec(jnd row; eyes of second row two-thirds their 

 fliametcr apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes slightly wiiler in front 

 than long, longer behind than in front in ratio of 9 : 7 (nearly), one- 

 fourth as long as the cephalothorax. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 305 



Epigynuni with the lateral tubercles widely roumlecl beliind, being 

 mesally shallowly angularly excavate (PI. XXII, fig. 6). 



Total length, 4 nun. Length of cephalothorax, 1.0 mm.; width, 

 1.4 mm. 



Length of leg I, 5.4 mm.; tib. + pat., 1.9 mm.; met., 1.2 mm. 

 ■ Length of leg II, 5.1 mm, 



iTcngth of leg III, 4.7 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 7.3 mm. ; tib. + pat., 2.3 mm. ; met., 2 nun. 



Male. — For structure of palpal organ see PI. XXII, fig. 5. 



Syn. — 1890. Pirala minuta Fox (at least ad. part.), Proc. Ent. Soc. W. 

 Ijocalitii. — Washington, D. C. !. 



Firata hamioolas Montgomery, 1902. 



(Prof. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., p. 575, PI. 30, figs. 40, 41.) 

 Female. — Sides of the cephalothorax brown to black with lighter 

 ra<^liating lines; a yellow median band widening from behind, where it is 

 a more line, forwanl and enclo.'^ing the usual dark bifurcate mark in its 

 front half; on eacii side a yellow supramarginal stripe which does not 

 extent 1 upon the j^are cephalica and which is limited below by a black 

 mar<i;inal line; in life there is a marginal line of wiiite hair. Chcliccra, 

 labium and ciulitcs dark raldish brown. Sternum dark brown, paler 

 along middle and darker at lateral margins. Legs brown, often of green- 

 isli hue, tlie coxtc beneath paler, yellow. Palpi like the legs, jialer at tiie 

 base. Dorsum of abdomen brown of greenish tinge; a basal lanceolate 

 me<lian stripe; two rows of light spots clothed with white pubescence 

 on each side of the ba.sal stripes and extending to the spinnerets 

 behind, the outer line often evidently only caudally, the spots of the 

 inner lines largest anteriorly connected by some thin cros.s-lines of white 

 hair; sides of abdomen yellowish brown tinged with green; venter 

 clear yellow, sometimes a few small black dots in front of spinnerets. 

 Epifn/num re<ldi.sh brown. Spinnerets yellow. 



Chcliccrcc one and one-third times tlie height of the face, the sides 

 of which are subvertical as in Pardosa. Ant<;rior row of eyes a little 

 shorter than the second, a little procurvcil; eyes of second row nearly 

 their diameter apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes one-fifth as long as 

 the cephalothorax. Lower margin of the furrow of the cheliccnv annecl 

 below with three teeth. 



T(»tal length, 4 nun. Length of cephalothorax, l.S nun. 



Length of leg I, l.S mm. 



Length of leg II, 4.3 nun. 




306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^I^y, 



Length of leg III, 4.2 mm. 



Length of leg 1\', 6.1 mm. 



Male. — Coloration darker than m the female. Cephalothorax nearly- 

 black. Abdomen nearly as in female but the venter darker. Chelicerce 

 black. Legs yellow except the femora of the first two pairs which are 

 black. Femur of 'palpi black, the other joints paler. 



Total length, 2.9 imn. Length of cephalothorax, 1.7 mm. 



Svn. — 1903. Pirata humicolus Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat, Sci. Pliila., 



"p. 654. 

 1904. Aulonia humicola, Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. p. 265, 

 PI. XX, fig. 33. 



Locality. — Pennsylvania. 



Known localities. — Pennsylvania!, New Jersey. 



Firata montanas Emerton, 1885. 



(Tr. Conn. Acad. Sci., p. 493, PI. 48, fig. 9.) 

 Female. — Sides of cephalothorax deep brown or blackish with no 

 lighter marginal stripes ; a yellow or reddish-yellow median stripe 

 beginning at the clypeus enclosing the dorsal eyes and then narrowing 

 caudad, ending as a pointed line on the posterior declivity; median 

 band enclosing in front of dorsal groove a dark stripe which bifurcates, 

 sending one of its branches forward to and along the inner margins of 

 the eyes of each side; eyes enclosed with black; in life on each side a 

 marginal line of white hair. Chelicerce dark brown, paler distally, 

 the tips of claws reddish. Labium and enditcs brown, lighter distally 

 as usual. Sternum brown, a dark line or row of dark spots on each 

 side, the two converging caudad. Leqs yellow, without markings ex- 

 cepting sometimes faint annuli on femora. Abdomen above black; a 

 reildlsh-brown median lanceolate stripe at base extending to mitldle; 

 each side of apex of this stripe a reddish spot and behind a nvmiber of 

 cliovron-shape<l transvci-so marks; all these marks may be indistinct 

 and sometimes the Ija^^al stripe alone is distinguishable; in life there is 

 on each side a scries of about six spots of light yellow hair; sides 

 colore«l like the doi'sum but in life more densely I >ul)(^><(•ent; a short 

 line of yellow hair passing l)aek across each antero-lateral angle, the 

 sides elsewhere being clothed with l)lack hairs with more scattered ones 

 of yellow; venter brown, rlotheil with yellowish gray pubescence. 

 Spinnerets brown. Kpiijynum reddish black. 



Sides of face steep, but evidently diverging outward Ix^low. 



First row of ri/r.s nearly ju^ long as the second, a 111 tie procurved ; anterior 

 me<lian eyes more tlian half theirduimeterajiart (nearly Ihree-fourtlis), 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 307 



nearly the same distance from the smaller lateral eyes (about 3 :4); 

 anterior lateral eyes their diameter or rather a little less from the front 

 margin of clypeiis, more than their diameter from eyes of second row; 

 eyes of second row less than their diameter apart; quadrande of pos- 

 terior eyes more than one-fifth the length of the cephalothorax (1 : 4.5). 



Lower margin of the furrow of chdicerce with three teeth, of which 

 the middle one is usually a little longest. 



Legs with tibia + patella I\'^ longer than the cephalothorax, which 

 latter is longer than tibia + patella I; anterior tibiae beneath with 

 three pairs of very long overlapping spines, the third pair being between 

 the middle pair and the distal end of the joint and truly ventral in 

 position (PI. X, fii:. 9) ; patella II armed in front. 



Epigynum with tiie posterior margin nearly straight; not excavated 

 mesally; thebuli>sof the spermathecae contiguous mesally. (PI. XXII, 



fig. 9.)" 



Total length. 2.4 mtn. Length of cephalothorax, 5 mm. 



Length of leg 1, 6.5 mm.; tib. + pat., 2.2 nmi.; met., 1.5 nur.. 



Length of leg II, 6.2 mm. 



Length of leg III, 6.1 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 9.4 mm. ; tib. + pat., 3 nun. ; met., 2.8 mm. 



Syn.— 1890. Pirata elegnnn Stone, Proc. Acml. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 12. 



Pirain monlanus, .Marx. Proc. V. .^. X. .M., 12, p. .5(54. 



1892. Pirn/a agilis Bauk.s (ad. part), Proc. .Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 1 >, ]>. 72, 



PI. I, fig. 47. 

 1902. Piratn elegam, Montg., op. cit., p. .581, Pi. XXX. fig. .3r>. 



?Pirtifn niffromnnilntiift Montp., ihid., p. .579, PI. 30, fips. 41, 4.5. 



1904. Piratii elegnrui, .Montnoinory, i7>iV/., p. 310. 



. "fPirola nigromnrulalus, ihid., p. 310. 



Type locality. — New Hampshire (White .M(Muitains) anil New York 

 (Adirondack Mountains at Long Lake). 



Known localities. — New York !, New Hampshire, Peniifiylvania, Utah !. 



Pirata marzi Stone, 1890. 



(Proc. .\cad. Xat. Sri. Phila., 42.) 

 Female. — Side.s of cephalothorax in fresh specimens oliscure brown to 

 gray-black, crossed l)y many ra<liating lines of l)lack; a yellow median 

 band of the typical form enclosing the usual liifurcate mark in front of 

 the df)rsal grof)ve, the mark coalescing on each .^ide just in front of the 

 groove with the dark area of the sides; there is thus between the arms 

 of the V-mark a narrow me<lian yellow stripe or line which extends 

 fonvard to the second eye row, and on each side of pars ccphalicu also a 

 narrow line which extends forwanl beneath the eyes to the clypcus, but 

 which is disconnecto<l with the nie<lian stripe behind: on each side a 




30S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [MaV, 



supramarginal yellovN' stripe with uneven upper margin, and limited 

 below by a black marginal line; no marginal stripe of white hair, 

 ChelicercB reddish brown. Enditcs brown, pale distally, the labium 

 in most darker, dusky-brown to blackish. Sternum brown. Coxcb 

 of legs beneath yellow. Legs clear yellow, darker distally, entirely 

 witliout dark rings or markings. Abdomen yellow with markings in 

 black as follows : at base above a lanceolate outline ; along each side of 

 dorsum a wavy or zigzag stripe, the two converging to spinnerets, 

 each united witli lanceolate basal mark at its base and again at its 

 middle; the outwardly directed angles of these dark stripes often more 

 or less extended down tlie sides as narrow lines; along the median line 

 of dorsum behind several short black marks, sides of abdomen antero- 

 ventrally with a dark area composed of a close network of black lines, 

 and postero-dorsally with a number of isolated dark areas formed of 

 similar reticulations, leaving thus in most a clear yellow stripe of 

 var}'ing width curving from the dorso-anterior angle obliquely down- 

 ward and backward between the two darkened areas described ; a row of 

 spots of yellow hair on each side of dorsum beiiind ; venter with some 

 scattered minute black dots, a few usually just behind the epigynum 

 and more numerous ones in front of spinnerets, the latter usually form- 

 ing two short lines close together which may extend forward to middle 

 or even to the spots behind epigynum, sides and venter clothed with 

 yellow liair. Spinnerets yellow. Epigynum pale brown, reddish 

 marginally, darker caudad. 



Face rather low and wide, sides well rounded and slanting. Cephalo- 

 thorax high ; highest at third eye row, from there convexly rounded to 

 the dorsal groove; posterior declivity steep. 



Anterior row of eyes as wide as the second, nearly straight, the centers 

 of the lateral eyes being but little' lower than those of tlic median; 

 anterior me<lian eyes a little larger tlian the lateral, scarcely one-third 

 their diameter apart, their radius from eyes of second row; anterior 

 lateral eyes four-fifths their diameter from front margin of clypeus, the 

 .same distance from eyes of second row; eyes of second row less than 

 their radius apart (2:5); quatlrangle of posterior eyes less than one- 

 fifth as long as cephalothorax (1:5.5), wider in front than long, very 

 wide behind, being wider than in front in ratio of 8.1:5.0. 



Lower margin of furrow of cheliccrce with but two teeth, f.abium 

 longer than wide, the basal excavation longer tluin is common; front 

 marginsubstraight, or but. slightly convex. Lcgsw'iih the tibia + patella 

 of the fourth pair longer than the cephalothorax; the corresponding 

 joints f»f the first pair slightly shorter than the cephalothorax; anterior 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 309 



tibiip armetl below with two pairs of spines in the usual position, 

 shorter than usual in this genus, those of the first pair not over- 

 lapping the bases of the second, to which they usually do not fully 

 extend ; all tarsi subsparsely setose. 



The epigynum is a large quadrangular area which is somewhat wider 

 in front than behind, the lateral margins being substraight and a little 

 converiiing caudad ; the posterior border is angularly excavated at the 

 middle and the spermatheca open on each side caudad directly into the 

 excavation, their terminal portions often showing flarkly through the 

 chitimms wall. (PI. XXII, fig. 8.) 



Total length, 7.2 nun. Length of cephalothorax, 3.2 mm.; width, 



2.2 nuu. 



Length of log I, 8.7 mm. ; tib. + pat., 3.1 mm. ; met., 2 mm. 



Length of leg II. 8.1 mm. 



Length of leg III, 7.9 mm. 



Length of leg IV, 10.0 mm.; tib. + pat., 3.5 mm.; met., 3 mm. 



Male. — Coloration as in the female. 



Tibia of the palpus longer than the ])atclla, of the same tliick- 

 ness {:<tK'n from above) ; tarsus much broader than the tibia. 

 Princijjal branch of apophysis of conductor long, curving outward 

 above; basal branch relatively large; ba.se of apophysis farther caudad 

 than usual. (I'l. XXI, fig. 8.) 



Total length, 5.G nun. Length of cephalothorax, 3 nun.; width, 



2.3 mm. 



Length of leg I, 8.5 mm. ; tib. + pat., 3.1 mm. ; met., 2.1 mm. 



Length f)f leg II, 7.9 nun. 



Length of leg III, 7.3 mm. 



Length of leg IV', 10.4 nmi.; tib. + pat., 3.2 mm. ; met., 3 mm. 



Svn.— ISS."). Pirnfn piratica Emerton (non CI.), Tr. C. Acad. Sci., 6, p. 192, 

 ' PI. -IS. fi^s. 7 to 71). 



IS'K). Pimta piratirn Marx, Pron. IT. S. N'. M., 12, p. .''.04. 

 1S!M. Plratn piratica .Marx, Proc. Kiit. Sor. W., j). 101. 

 1.S02. Pirala piratica Hanks, Proc. Ac-ail. Nat. Sc-i. Pliila., -ll. 

 11M)2. Pirntit piratica iMricrtoii, Coin. Sp. i:. 8. p. Si, fiRs. 2().S, 209. 

 IWZ. Pirala marxi, .Montgoniory, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., p. r>S2, PI. 



XXX, (iK. 17. 

 1901. Pirala marxi, Montgomery, ibid., p. 309, PI. XLX, fiR. 27. 



Tijpc locality. — Pennsylvania (York County). 



Known localities. — Massachusetts!, Connecticut, Hliode lslaii<l!, \cw 

 "^'(trk !, District of Columbia. 



Pirata iniularif Kmerion, 1R85. 



(Tr. Conn. Acud. Sci., 0, p. 192, PI. 4.S, figB. 8, Sa.) 

 Female.- Sides of cephalothorax brown cnxsjsl by radiating lines of 




310 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



black; a median reddish-yellow band of the usual form enclosing the 

 \'-shape<l mark in front; on each side also a yellowish supramarginal 

 stri[)e witii uneven upper edge and limite<l below by a narrow dark 

 marginal strijie, this stripe not extending forward beyond the cervical 

 furrow ; cephalothorax with sparse, short dark hairs, no marginal lines 

 of wiiite pubescence. ChcUccrcc reddish yellow, clothed spai*sely with 

 light gray hair. Labium and endites reddish yellow, paler distally. 

 Sternum and coxcc of legs beneath retldish yellow, sparsely provided 

 with mostly stifif blackish hairs, the former often blackish along sides 

 and pale mesally. Legs brownish yellow, all joints excepting the tarsi 

 with more or less distinct dark annulations, or these sometimes very 

 indistinct on or absent from the metatarsi. Abdomen above blackish; 

 at base above a yellow lanceolate median stripe extending caudally to 

 the middle; each side of the apex of the lanceolate stripe is a yellow 

 spot and behind is a number of transverse yellow marks, each of which 

 has in most cases the shape of an open angle with the apex directed 

 fonvard, but more rarely the marks are nearly straight ; each side of the 

 median markings of the dorsum above described is in life a series of 

 white spots formed of bunches of white hair, the dorsum elsewhere 

 being sparsely clothed with short yellowish hail's and more scattered 

 long dark bristles; a narrow yellow stripe or row of yellow spots passing 

 over each antero-lateral angle caudally, breaking up over the side into 

 more scattered yellow dashes; this 3'ellow stripe on front of sides often 

 partly masked by wiiito hair, but this hair never forming a very distinct 

 or extensive line or stripe; venter pale yellow to grayish, a darker 

 median line behind epigynum, hair of entire venter yellow. Spin- 

 nereis light brown. 



Seen in profile the dorsal line of the cephalothorax is nearly horizontal, 

 notched at dorsal jrroove. The cheliceraj about one and one-fourth times 

 the height of the face. 



First row of eyes nearly as long as the second, ncaily straight; 

 anterior median eyes less than their radius apart, closer to the evi- 

 dently smaller lateral eyes; anterior lateral ey(>s less than their 

 diameter from front margin of clypeus, some more than their diameter 

 from cvfis of second row; qua<lrangle of posterior eyes one-fifth as long 

 as the ce[)halothorax. 



LaWtim longer than wide (7 :6); basal excavation a little more than 

 one-fourth us long as the labium ; sides Ix'low straight and but slightly 

 converging, more strongly converging and more rounded above; front 

 margin substraight, being very slightly bowed forward. Lnjs with the 

 tibia + patella of the fourth pair cIcHrly longer lluin the cephalothorax, 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 311 



the corresponding joints of the fii'st legs being also a little longer; 

 anterior tibiu' armed beneath as usual; patella of leg I unarniet^l, that 

 of leg II with a spine in front ; tarsi setose. 



Epigi/num presenting two more or less divergent tubercles cautiad, 

 upon the ventral face of which l!ie spermatheca open; these tubercles, 

 at first angular, may become more rounde<l with age. (PI. XXII, 

 fig. 4.) ' 



Total length, 6.5 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 3.1 nun.; width, 

 2.2 mm. 



I-^ngth of leg I, 9.2 mm. ; tib. + pat., 3.3 nun. ; met., 2.2 mm 



Ivength of leg II, S.4 nun. 



Length of leg III, 7.7 mm. 



Length of leg I \', 11.6 mm.; tib. 4- pat., 3.7 mm.; met., 3.6 mm. 



Male. — Coloration nearly as in female except that the femora and 

 tibia? are indistinctly annulate and the other joints clear yellow; the 

 palpi are brown of reddisli tinge. 



For struct me of palpus see PI. X.XII, fig. 3. 



Total length, 4.5 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 2.2 mm. 



Svn.— ISfK). Pirata imulariK, Marx, Proc. U. S. N. M., 12, p. ,^)t;i. 

 1S92. Pirata insularis. Hanks, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 41, i>. 71. 

 1902. Pirala lihcr Mciitpf.mcrv, op. cit., p. 578, PI. 30, figs. 42, 43. 

 1904. Pirata liber, ibid., p. 311. 



1'i/pe localil}/. — Long Lake, Adirondack Movmtains, New York. 



Knoirn loailiiics. — Rhode I.sland !, New York!. Pennsylvania!. 



This is a common species which is subject to considerable variation, 

 both in some of its structural characters and, more noticeably, in depth 

 of coloration. In some the annulations are very deej) and distinct and 

 the btxly parts are correspondingly daik, while in others the aiunila- 

 tions may be very indistinct. 



Pirata febriculosa (Upck). 188L 



(Ann. .'<<><•. Kilt. Holg., 25, PI. 3, figs. 2, 2a.) 

 Female. — Sides of cephalothorax dark brown to blackisli of usually 

 greenish tinge; a reddish yellow nuMJian band narrow caudally and 

 widening anteriorly to the eye region, where it expands and pa.s.se.s below 

 the eyi!S of each side and attains the clypeus; in front of dorsal furrow 

 a me<lian black line which bifurcates seiuling a branch forward to inner 

 side of third eye of each side in the usual manner; on each side a 

 HKHJerately wide yellow or re<!dish-yellow marginal band which 

 extends forward a.s far a.s the cervical furrow; clypeus yellow; eye 

 region black; along each lat<'ral margin in life a distinct line of ulufo 




312 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



hair imicli narrower than the light band in tegument; the sides of the 

 cephalothorax are spareely clothed witli short black hairs. Cheliceroe 

 yellowish brown, distally reddish yellow, clothed subsparsely with 

 long light gray hair. Labium pale brown, lighter distally. Sicrnu7n 

 and coxce of legs beneath yellow, clothed sparsely with blackish hairs. 

 Legs greenish yellow, more reddish distally, sometimes without evident 

 markings, but in the great majority with faint dark annulations show- 

 ing most distinctly on the femora and tibice of the posterior pairs; these 

 annuli usually broken above. Abdomen above black or blackish 

 brown; at base is a narrow lanceolate reddish-yellow stripe which ends 

 at middle and is margined m itli a line of black, outside and parallel with 

 the black edge being in life a line of white hair, the two white lines 

 meeting at a truncate angle on posterior portion of dorsum, these lines 

 sometimes each reduced to a row of spots or less conmionly entirely 

 absent; a narrow stripe of white hair passing caudad over eacli antero- 

 lateral angle and spreading out usually in streaks over the upper part 

 of side and connecting behind with the white of opposite side above spin- 

 nerets; lower portion of sides brown and, like most of doi'sum, clothed 

 with brown hair; venter brown to gray, paler in front of genital fur- 

 row. Tubercles of epigynum reddish. Sijrinnerets pale brown. 



Face a little more than half as high as the length of the chelicerae. 



Anterior row of eyes nearly as long as second, slightly procurved; 

 anterior malian eyes their radius apart; much closer to the lateral eyes; 

 anterior lateral eyes considerably smaller than the median, their 

 tliameter or nearly so from the front margin of clypeus, more than 

 their diameter from eyes of second row; eyes of second row consider- 

 ably less than their diameter apart; quadrangle of posterior eyes less 

 than one-fifth as long as the cephalothorax (1 : 5.5). 



Chclicerce armed as usual. Labium longer than wider (10.5 : 10) ; basal 

 excavation short, scarcely more than one-fifth as long as labium ; lower 

 part of sides nearly straight, only slightly converging, but for upper third 

 more strongly rounde<l and converging; front margin truncate. Legs 

 with the tibia + patella of the fourth pair longer than the cephalo- 

 thorax; the corrcspon<ling joints of the fii-st pair shorter than the 

 cephalothorax; tarsi of first two pail's of legs scopulate laterally, those 

 of the posterior pairs simply setose; anterior tibiie below with the usual 

 basal and suliujodian pairs of logs which are l<jng, the first well over- 

 lapping the second ; patelhe of first legs unarmed, those of second with a 

 spine on anterior face. 



J'jpigj/num presenting beliind two angular tubercles, the iiuier or 

 mcHal faces of which are nearly parallel and are more than usually 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 313 



close together leaving the excavation between them narrow; their 

 outer faces clearly more strong]}' diverging than the inner. (PI. 

 XXII, fig. 2.) 



Total length, 7.2 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 3.3 mm.; width, 

 2.6 mm. 



Length of leg I, 8.5 mm. ; tib. + pat., 3 mm. ; met., 2 mm. 



Length of leg II, 7.6 mm. 



Length of leg III, 7.3 mm. 



Lengthof leg IV, 11.2 mm.; tib. + pat., 3.6 mm.; met., 3.2 mm. 



Male. — For structure of palpal organ see PI. XXII, fig. 1. 



Svn. — 1904. Lycosa wacondatia Scheffcr, The Industrialist, Kansas, p. 13, 



' PI. I, fip. 7. 

 1904. Pirata sedentarius , Montgomery, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., p. 312. 



Type locality. — Kansas, 



Knovm localities. — New York!, Kansas!, Iowa!, Texas!. 



Apparentl}' this species is close to L. piratica. The palpal organs are 

 similar, but in fcbriculosa the superior horn of the apophysis is at once 

 seen to be longer and straighter and more outwardly directed. 



Pirata piratioa (Clerck) var. utahensis, now. 



Male. — Palpal organ agreeing in detail with that of the European 

 species or nearly so. 



Cephalothorax with the median pale stripe and dark A'-.shaped 

 enclosure as usual, the arms of the latter parallel anteriorh' back to 

 posterior third, then converging to a point. Laterial jialc stripes 

 reaching pars cephalica, each bordered below with a dark marginal 

 stripe. A marginal line of bright white hair showing in life or in (hy 

 specimen as in jihriculond and piratica of type form. Femora of all 

 legs with dark annuli, these mast distinct on second ami third pairs, 

 showing clearly on the ventral surface of the latter; other joints 

 imniarked, distal ones some tlarkcr. Stcrtiian and coxa: beneath jiale. 

 Abdomen black above, the usual pale mark at base; a white stripe of 

 hair over each antcro-lateral angle; a narrower line of white hair each 

 side of l)a.'^al mark, followed behind by a row of white spots similarly 

 formed; venter pale, with three narrow stripes of brown converging 

 caudally. 



Length, 6.2 mm. Length (if cephalolliorax. 3. 1 nun. : width, 2.5 mm. 



Locality. — Utah !. 



Likely to be found throughout the I'acilic .Stales. 



Pirata prodigioia KpvM<rlinic. 1870. 



(Vcrli. z. I.. floH. Wi.ii, 20, p. 009, PI. R, fiR. 44.) 

 Fctiuile. — Cephalothorax l)rown with a narrow black line along each 




314 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



lateral margin, above which is an uneven edged, wtnv yellow stripe; 

 & similarly colored metlian hand, which beginning narrow behind 

 widens cephalad, is constricted a little ))ehind the e\'es and then again 

 widens to enclose the eyes as usual, embracing in its anterior half two 

 dark elongate marks which beginning at the two posterior eyes con- 

 verge and unite at the front end of the median furrow; eyes enclosed in 

 black. Chelicerce reddish yellow. Labium brownish 5'ellow with paler 

 tip. Sternum blackish with a yellow median stripe and on each side 

 three similarly colore<l elongate spots. Legs yellow, a little darker 

 distally, with faint indications of light rings. Palpi yellow, distal 

 joints brown. Abdo7nen above dark gray; anteriorly with a yellow 

 stripe, near this two small spots, and behind this and extending to the 

 spiimerets a number of paired successively smaller and smaller spots of 

 the same yellow color; sides marked with small streaks and dots of 

 3'ellow ; \enter smoky white with tiiree brown longitudinal stripes and 

 several similarly coloredjstreaks at the sides of these. Epigynum clear 

 reddish brown. Spinnerets brownish yellow. In a second specimen 

 the sternum has two dark, indistinct, parallel longitudinal lines over its 

 middle region. 



Cephalothorax shorter than the tibia + patella of the fourth pair of 

 legs, as wide a.s the metatarsus of the same legs, not liighly arched, the 

 entire back apparently of similar height, toward the lateral margins 

 flat and toward the nearly straight caudal margin rather steeply slop- 

 ing; cephalic furrows indistinct, tliehead in front low and sloping flatly 

 at the sides. 



Anterior row of eyes straight, somewhat shorter tlian the second, 

 sei)aratod from the latter and from the margin of the clypeus by not 

 fully the diameter of one of the somewhat larger median eyes; eyes 

 of the second row Tiearly their diameter apart, more than this from 

 the two-thirds as large eyes of the tliird, distinctly wider row; entire 

 eye area wider behind than in front. Chelicerjc somewhat enlarged in 

 front, not entirely twice as wide as the labium, whicli is somewhat 

 longer than wide and is anteriorly somewhat excavated. Sternum 

 somewhat longer than Ijroad, moderately arched and clothed witli a 

 few black bristles. Legs nuKlerately slender, the fourth pair somewhat 

 more than three and one-half times as long as the cephalothorax and 

 about twice the length of its tarsus longer than the first ;tibia + patella 

 IV somewhat longer than metatarsus which is longer than the femur; 

 principal claws of tarsi with (5 7 t^eth, the middle one with none; only 

 a thin scopiila on tarsi of the two first pairs, none on the posterior; 

 apines of fenuir I above 1, 1, 1, within 1, witlioiit none, of patella 1 




1908.] NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADKLPHIA. 315 



none, of tibia I below 2, 2, 2, within 1 ; spines of second legs the same 

 as for I. Posterior spinnerets twice as long as the anterior and dis- 

 tinctly two-jointed ; the middle pair ver>' slender but as long as the 

 anterior. 



Total length, 6.2 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 2.8 mm.; width, 

 2.2 mm. 



Length of leg I, 7.9 mm. ; tib. + pat., 2.8 mm. ; met., L7 nmi. 



Length of leg II, 7.3 nnn. 



Length of leg III, 6.8 mm. 



Length of leg lY. 10.1 mm. : tib. 4- pat.. 3.3 mm.; met., 3 mm. 



Syn.— 1890. Pirala prodigiosa Marx, Proc. U. S. X. M., 12, p. 64. 



Locality. — Illinois (Peoria). 

 Types in collection of Dr. Koch. 



Pirata bilobaU(Tullgren). 1901. 



(Mill, till sv. Vet.-Akad. Handl., B. 27, .\l)d. 4, No. 1, p. 22. Plate, fip. 12.) 



Female. — Cephalothorax light brown, clothetl with short dark 

 adpre.'^sed hail's and strewed with long dark iipturnetl bristly hairs; the 

 pare cephalica with three lighter bands and at the margins of pars 

 thoracica a broad light band. Chelicera; light brown and strewed with 

 long bristly hairs. Enditcs yellow and dotiied by long bristly hairs. 

 Sternum light brown, clotiied by long black bristly haire. Leys pale 

 brown. Abdomen above dark brown with a ligliter middle liand and 

 three paire of very small white spots; the venter light yellowish brown. 

 Epiyi/niim. dark corneous. 



Cephalothorax with a long and distinct central furrow on pars 

 thoracica; in length a little shorter than the length of til)ia and patella 

 and tile breadth shorter than the length of tibia of the fourth pair of 

 legs. Front row of eyes distinctly procurved ; the intervals about e(iual ; 

 the central eyes nearly twice as large as the lateral eyes; the interspace 

 between the central eyes and the margin of the clvpeus as long as the 

 diameter of the eyes; eyes of the middle row separatetl from each other 

 by an interspace alxjut as broad as their diameter and separatjil from 

 the central anterior eyes by an interspace about as long as tiie liiameter 

 of these eyes; the distance from the posterior eyes a little longer 

 tlian the diameter of the middle eyes. Chelicene about twice as long as 

 the face, tapering at the apex. Endites about twice as long as labium. 



The cpigynum bilobate, the loljes roundeii. 



Total length, 3.8 mm. Length of cephalothorax, 2.5 mm.; width, 

 1.8 nun. 




316 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Length of leg I, 6.8 mm. 



Length of log IV, S.6 mm. 



Locality. — Florida. 'Two adult females from Lake Leonore in Orange 

 Coimty. 



.\lthough this species was descriljed as a Pardosa, it seems ver}' clear 

 from the structure of tlie epigynum, as shown in the figure accompany- 

 ing the original description, taken in connection with several points 

 in the description, that it is a Pirata. The statement that the pars 

 cephalica is marked with "three lighter bands" indicates the presence 

 of the peculiar Pirata marking of the cephalothorax. 



Explanation of Plates VIII-XXIH. 



Pl-^te Vlll. — General Character istics of the Genus Pardosa. 

 Fig. 1. — Right cheliccra of P. slermilis. 

 Fig. 2. — Dorsal view of the ceplialotliorax of P. lapidicina. 

 Fig. 3. — Right chelioera of P. atra. 

 Fig. 4. — Labium of P. lapidicina. 

 Fig. 5. — Face of same. 

 Fig. 6. — Labium of P. emerloni. 



Fig. 7. — \'entral view of tarsas of first leg of P. sternalis. 

 Fig. 8. — Labium of P. aim. 

 Fig. 9. — Tibia of first leg of P. sternalis seen from behind and slightly below. 



Plate IX. — General Characteristics of the Gexus Lycosa. 

 Fig. 1. — Right chelicera of L. gulosa. 

 Fig. 2. — Dorsal view of cei^halothorax of L. hclluo. 

 Fig. 3. — Right cholieera of L. kochii. 



Fig. 4. — Tibia of first leg of same viewed from behind anil a little below. 

 Fig. .'). — Face of L. helluo. 



Fig. 6. — Tarsus of fourth leg of same seen from tlie side. 

 Fig. 7. — Side view of tarsus of first leg of L. helluo showing scopula. 

 Fig. 8. — Lal)ium of L. erratica. 

 Fig. 9. — Labiiim of L. a.i])ersa. 



Plate X. — General CHARACTEnisTics of the Genera Allocosa and Pir.\ta. 

 Fig. 1. — Tibia of first leg of A . degesta \'iewed from the side and a little below. 

 Fig. 2. — Face of same. 



Fig. 3. — Til)ia of first leg of A.junerea seen from the side and a little below. 

 Y'i%. 4. — Labium of same. 



Fig. 5. — Df)rsal view of cephalothorax of P. montanus. 

 Fig. 0. — Labium of same. 



Fig. 7. — Til)ia of first leg of same viewed from the side and a little l)elow. 

 Fig. 8. Spinnerets of .same viewed from the .side. 

 Fig. 9. — Tarsus of first leg of /'. monlanus viewed from the side. 



Plate XL — General Characteristics of the Geneil\ Sosippus and Trarea. 

 Fig. 1 . — Labium of .S. floridtinus. 

 Fig, 2. — Face of same. 

 Fig. 3. — Right rhelicern of .same. 



Fig. 4. — Tibia of fir«t leg of same viewed from in front and a little below. 

 Fig. 5. — Sj»iimer«'ts of same. 

 Fig. 6. — 'larsUH and part of metatarsus of first leg of same viewed from the 



side. 

 Fig. 7. — Right chelicera of T. nnranliitd.^ 

 Fin. S. — Dop<;d view of cephal«)tIiorax <tf T. auraniiaca. 

 Fig. 9. — Labium of 7'. aurarUiaca. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 317 



Plate XII. — General Chahacterlstics of the Genus Trahea (continued) 



AND SOSILAUS. 



Y'lfx. 1. — Face of T. auranliaca. 



Fie;. 2. — E|)i^^^lum of T. auranliaca. 



Fip. 3. — Male palpal organ of T. auranliaca dra\NTi out from tlie alveolus. 



Fig. 4. — Tibia of first leg of T. auranliaca \iewed from the .side and Ijelow. 



Fig. .5. — Dorsal \-\ew of front part bf pars cephalica of S. npinigcr. 



Fig. 6. — Face of 5. spiniger. 



Plate XIII. — Copul.\tory Orga.vs of Species op Pardosa. 

 Fig. 1 . — EpigjTium of P. saxalilis. 

 Fig. 2. — Palpus of same. 

 Fig. .'?. — Kpifxyimtnoi P. mil rina. 

 Fig. 4. — Palpus of same. 

 Fig. n. — EpigA'num of P. slernalis. 

 Fig. <■). — Palpus of same. 

 Fig. 7. — Epig\nium of P. bankni. 

 Fig. S. — EpigAiium of P. atra. 

 Fig. 9. — Epig}-num of P. ■pauxilla. 



Pl.\TE XIV. — COPULATORY OrGANS OF SpECIES OF P.\RDOSA (CONTINUED). 



Fig. 1. — Epig>-num of Parduxa eniertoni. 



Fig. 2. — Epig\-num of P. slernalis, immature ( P=. coloradensis Bks.). 



Fig. 3. — Epig\Tiurn of P. xcrampelina. 



Fig. 4. — Palpus of same. 



Fig. rt. — Epigynum of P. califomica. 



Fig. <■). — Epig^Tium of P. grcenlanfh'ca. 



I'ig. 7. — Epigynum of P. lapidicina. 



Fig. K. — Palpus of same. 



P^ig. 9. — Epigynum of P. nioesta. 



Pl.1TE. XV. — CoPULATORY ORGANS OF SpeCIES OF PaRDOSA (CONTINUED). 



Fig. 1. — Epigynum of P. »noJiVa, typical form. 



Fig. 2. — Palpvis of id., typical form (aft<'r Emerton). 



Fig. 3. — Epigyruim of P. modica var. brunnea. 



Fig. 4. — Pal|)us of same. 



Fig. 5. — Epigynum of P. mackenziana. 



Fig. 0. — Palj)us of same, front view (after Emerton). 



Fig. 7. — /'/., side view (after Emerton). 



Fig. K. — Epigynum of P. distincla (after Emerton). 



Fig. 9. — Pali)us of same (after Emerton). 



Plate XVI. — The Genu.s .Schizocosa. 

 Fig. 1. — Epigynum of S. ocreatn. 

 I'ig. 2. — Palpus of .S. saltatrix. 

 Fig. 3. — lOpigynum of .S. bilinrala. 

 Fig. 4. — Epigynum of S. sallalrix. 

 Fig. 5.— PalpiLs of S. ocreatn. 



Plate XVII. — (V)pul.\tory ( )f{g.\N8 of Species of Lycosa. 

 Fig. 1. — Epigynum of A. hclluo. 

 Fig. 2. — Palpus of same. 

 Fig. 3. — Epigynum of L. erratica. 

 Fig. 4. — Pal[»us of same. 

 Fig. T). — Epigynum of L. rijxtria. 

 Fig. <>. — Palpus of same. 

 Fig. 7. — Epigynum of L. aspcrsa. 

 Fig. H. — Pidpus (if same. 

 Fig. 9. — Epigynum of L. Hcutulata, 



Plate XVIII.— CoprLAToHY Organs of Species of Lycosa (contivi'Ed). 

 Fig. 1. — PalptiH of L. Kcutulntn. 

 Fig. 2. — Epigynum of L. punclulaUt. 

 21 




318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Fig. 3. — Palpus of same. 



Fig. 4. — Epipjnuin of L. frondkola. 



Fig. 5. — Palpus of same. 



Fig. 6. — Epig}Tium of L. color adensis. 



Fig. 7. — Palpus of same. 



Fig. 8. — Epig\-num of L. lenta. 



Fig. 9. — Palpus of same. 



Plate XIX. — Copulatory Org.vns of Species of Lycosa (continued). 

 Fig. 1. — Palpus of L. albohastata (txTie). 

 Fig. 2. — EpigjTium of L. fumosa (type). 

 Fig. 3. — Palpus of same (tj-pe). 

 Fig. -1. — Palpus of L. bcani (type). 

 Fig. 5. — Epigynum of same (tj-pe). 

 Fig. 6. — Palpus of L. pictilis (tj-pe). 

 Fig. 7. — EpigATium of L. quinnria (type). 

 Fig. S. — EpigATium of L. pictilis (type). 

 Fig. 9. — Epig}"num of L. rubicunda. 



Plate XX. — Copulatory Organs of Species of Lycos.*, (continued). 

 Fig. 1. — Palpus of L. avara, side ■\iew. 

 Fig. 2. — Epig>'num of same. 

 Fig. 3. — Palpus of same, ventral view. 

 Fig. 4. — Epigj-num of L. avara var. gosiuta. 

 Fig. 5. — Palpus of L. cinerea. 

 Fig. 6. — EpigjTium of same. 

 Fig. 7. — Palpus of Allocosa parva. 

 Fig. 8. — Epig\Tium of L. fatijera. 

 Fig. 9. — Epig\^lum of L. arcnicola. 



Plate XXI. — Copulatory Organs of Species7.of Lycosa (continued) and 

 OF Species of Pirata. 

 Fig. 1. — EpigjTium of L. carolinensis. 

 Fig. 2. — Palpus of same. 

 Fig. 3. — Epig\Tium of L. pratensis. 

 Fig. 4. — Palpus of L. kochii. 

 Fig. 5. — Epigynum of same. 

 Fig. G. — Palpus of L. giilosa. 

 Fig. 7. — Epig^nuun of same. 

 Fig. 8. — Palpus of P. mnrxi. 

 Fig. 9. — Palpus of P. minulus. 



Plate XXII. — Copulatory Organs of Species of Pirata (continued). 

 Fig. 1. — Palpus of P. febrinilosa. 

 Fig. 2. — E|)i>rynumof same. 

 Fig. 3. — I'al[)us of /■•. insularis. 

 Fig. 4. — Epicynum f>f same. 

 Fig. 5. — Palpus of P. nspirans. 

 Fig. 0. — Epigynum of same. 

 Fig. 7. — EpipATium of P. minulus. 

 Fig. 8. — EpipA-num of P. mnrxi. 

 Fig. 9. — Epigynum of P. rtmnlanus. 



Plate XXIII. — Copulatory Oikjans of Species of Sosippur and Allocosa. 

 Fig. 1. — Palpu.s of S. Jlnridnnus. 

 Fig. 2. — EpigjTium of same. 

 Fig. 3. — Palp»i.'» of /I. ntgnsn. 

 Fig. 4. — Epip>'num of A . cragnla. 



Fig. 5. — Ef)itviintri of A. ilrgesia (that of funerea sitnilar). 

 (Sec also I'l. XX, fig. 7.) 




1908.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 319 



DESCRIPTION OF TRACHYPTERUS SELENIRIS, A NEW SPECIES OF RIBBON- 

 FISH FROM MONTEREY BAY, CALIFORNIA. 



BY JOHN OTTKHBEIX SXYDER. 



Early in Juno of last year a large Ribbon-fish was found almost 

 stranded on the beach at Monterey, California. It was secured by Mr. 

 Frederick A. Woodworth, of Pacific Grove, and through his kindly 

 interest sent to Stanford University for identification. Its close 

 resemblance to Trachijptcrus ishikaicw^ of Japan wa.s at once apparent, 

 but a detaile<l examination \va.s impossible at that time on account of 

 the decayed condition of the specimen, the delicate silvery skin leaving 

 the body at a touch of the finger, and the muscles almost parting from 

 the bf)nes. After a long immersion in a mixture of strong alcohol and 

 formalin, it may now be handled without further injury*. 



When the Monterey specimen is compared with the type of Trachyp- 

 terus ishiknwce, certain difTcrences appear which indicate that we have 

 to deal with two distinct species, one of which, being unknown, is here 

 described as Trachyptcrus sdemria. The latter differs from T. ishika- 

 wa, the most nearly allied form, in having a more slender body, a 

 smaller head, a smaller eye, and a weaker armature of the bod}-. The 

 chief differences may be tabulated thus: 



T. sclcnhis. T. ishikawix. 



rx>npth ill niillimetere 1520 lO-W 



Ilfjul in length OJ times. H\ times. 



I)<'I)tIi iic'ur riiicidlcof body 11 " 7|j " 



Di-ptli at IxKiiining of posterior tliird ISJ " 14 " 



I)iiiM..-t<T<)U-yr 32 " 2.") 



I/«Mictli of miixillary 2.5 " 22 



Trach7pt«rai lelenirii n. sp. 



Head. \)\ ill the length; depth, 9^; eye, SJ in head; dorsal rays, 168; 

 pectoral, ?>. 



Length of hcjul greater than its depth, about eqiud to depth of body 

 in region of pectoral; snout 3 in hea<l ; width of interorbital space 2 in 

 diameter of eye ; lower jaw projecting slightly bey«»nd the upper ; 



' TmchypUrus iithikawa Jordan and Snyder, Journal of the CoUrgr of Science, 

 *itv, Tokyo, Vol. XV. Pt. 2, n. .'ilO, PI. XVII, fiR. 10. SmiUwonian 

 Mi.sr.llmuouH (V.lU-ctions, 45, p. 240, PI. LXlII. 



Ini|MTiiil I nivorHil 




320 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



l)roce.ss of maxillaiy exteiuling to a vertical through posterior border of 

 eye; maxillar}- with a Icaf-Hke flap a fourth of its length longer than 

 diameter of eye, and with branched striations radiating from its point 

 of attachment; opercular bones conspicuously striated. Teeth weak; 

 loosely attached ones on vomer, a row of 4 on maxillary, and 4 on each 

 side of symphysis of lower jaw, the posterior of which is 2 times the 

 length of the anterior. Gill-rakei's on fii-st arch 5 + 10, provided with 

 tooth-like setaj on the inner side; filaments of pseud obranchia? equal in 

 length to those of gills. 



Origin of dorsal above upper edge of gill-opening, the rays highest 

 near beginning of posterior third of body where they are about 1-J 

 times the diameter of eye; anterior rays not separated from the pos- 

 terior ones nor lengthened. Length of pectoral slightly more than 

 diameter of orbit. A'entral fins absent, or possibly represented by a 

 mere filament, the place of insertion indicated by a spot on the breast 

 below base of pectoral, where the skin, colored and sculptured, looks 

 much like a pair of folded fins. Caudal projecting upwards; short 

 fragmentar}'^ filaments present; several small spines projecting down- 

 wards and l^ackwards from the broadened end of the caudal peduncle. 



Head naked; scales of body in the form of minute pads or plates 

 containing a varying amount of bony matter; those on median ventral 

 surface pointed, hard and white like enamel, covering a narrow ridge 

 and lying in a single row near extremity of tail; among those on dorsal 

 part of body, some are enlarged and arranged in vertical rows parallel 

 with the interneurals. Lateral line with small, ciuill-like tubes; 

 begimiing at upper edge of gill-opening, bending ratlier al)ruptly 

 downwards and extending along body somewhat below the malian 

 line; not armcnl at any point. 



Color bright silver}'. 



Type No. 13,080 Stanford University collection. 



Called selcnirifi on account of a fancie<l resemblance f)f the long, 

 flat, silvery b(j<ly to the colorless lunar rainbow. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 321 



SOME POLYCHJETOUS ANNELIDS OF THE NORTHERN PACIFIC COAST 

 OF NORTH AMERICA. 



HV J. PERCY MOORE. 



This paper is a final report embodying the results of a study of all of 

 the Poh'chcpta submitted to me by the U. S. Bureau of Fisheries from 

 the collections made by the steamer Albatross during the summer of 

 1903. From June 19 to August 24 of that year, while in the service of 

 a special Commission appointed by the President to investigate the 

 salmon fisheries of Ala.ska. the Albatross cruised northward along the 

 coast from Port Townsend and Vancouver on the south, through part 

 of the labyrinth of straits and passages which separate the Islands of 

 southea-stern Alaska, as far as Sholokof Strait on the north and west, 

 occupying meanwiiilc 112 dredging stations and a number of addi- 

 tional hydrographic and towing statioas. Some little shore collecting 

 was also conducted. 



During the cruise tiie vessel was under the connnaiid of the late 

 Lieut. Franklin Swift. U.S.X., to wlioso skill in handling her must 

 be largely c-re<lit(><l the large number of successful hauls mmle with 

 trawl and dre<lge. Tlic extent of the collection and the generally 

 excellent preservation of the annelids similarly attest the energy and 

 ability which Prof. Harold Heath devotetl to collecting the inverte- 

 brates, placed under his immediate charge. 



In all 107 species of Polychieta are represente<I. Of this number 41 

 species are considered to be previously undescribe<l. The descriptions 

 of only two of tijese, however, appear for tiie first time in tliis paper, the 

 remaining 39 having been published, with the courteous approval of 

 theConuni.s-ioner. Hon.Cief)rge M. Powers, in these Pmccrdintjs for 190.5, 

 I)p. 525 .5()9, Sl()-SO(), and for 190r,, pp. 217 2(;(). (oLM'llur with plates 

 ilhistrating important diagnostic features. 



Sup[)Iernenting the results f)f the sttidy of the .\ll):itn»ss colleetions 

 are add*"*! some notes on a few polychu'tes in the collection of this 

 Academy, gathere< I by Dr. Benjamin Sharp at Icy Cape' and I'milaska, 



• The northcmmoBt point of that mimr. 




322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [JunC, 



Alaska ; by Mr. A. E. Mcllhenny at Point Barrow, Alaska, and by Mr. 

 George Dawson at Admiralty Inlet, Washington. From this source 

 are added 7 species not otherwise represented, 2 of them haAing been 

 described as new in these Proceedings for 1906, pp. 352-355. The 

 total number of species considered is, therefore, 114. 



After deducting the 43 new species, the 71 remaining may be classi- 

 fied from the point of view of geographical distribution as follows: 16, 

 so far as known, are confined to the region under consideration, having 

 been reported from some part of it, but not elsewhere, by previous 

 ^^•^iters; 12 occur to the southward along the coast of California, though 

 most of them have already been recorded from Puget Sound or the 

 Gulf of Georgia by Johnson and others; 8 have been described as 

 occurring off the coast of Japan, and probably all of the latter have, 

 as several are known to have, a wide distribution throughout the 

 North Pacific; 4 are scattering; and the remaining 31 are well-known 

 inhabitants of northern Europe, Greenland and the Arctic regions 

 generally. Many of the latter are established circumpolar forms and 

 have been already reported by j\Iarenzeller or Wiren as belonging to the 

 fauna of Bering Sea, or by others as occurring in the North Pacific. 



In not a few cases it is evident that the individuals referral to such 

 species differ in certain respects from their European representatives. 

 In a few species like Terebellides strcemii individuals of almost every 

 colony present certain characteristic differences. In the belief that the 

 future will show that such wide-ranging species split up into many 

 geographical subspecies just as land animals do, and that such sub- 

 species cannot be satisfactorily discriminated until our knowledge of 

 the distribution and variation of annelids shall have been veiy greatly 

 augmenten^l, it has been tliought best to merely mention such differ- 

 ences, without giving to them nomenclatorial importance. 



In this report it has been thought sufficient to the jiurposc to record 

 only the general location of the stations, together with the depth of 

 water and the character of the bottom. The full data relating to each 

 station, including its exact location, have been carefully compiled by 

 •Mr. Henry C. Fassett and published in the lit port of (he U. S. Fish 

 Commission for 1903, pp. 123 to 138. 



« Except in the two or three cases where it is state<l otherwise, all 

 types have been forwardiNl to the U. S. National .Museum. Cotypcs, 

 whenever such exist, are deposited at the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Phila/lelphia. The references given imdor each species arc either 

 to its original description or to later aceount-s furnished with good 

 figures and synonymies. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIEXCE3 OF PHILADELPHIA. 323 



SYLLID^. 

 Syllis armillaril (Muller) Malmgren. 



Nereis armillaris Miillor, Zoologise danic« prodromus, 1776, p. 217. 



Syllis armillaris, Malmgren, .\imulata Polychaeta, 1867, p. 42, Tab. VII, fig. 



46. 

 SyUis borealis Malmgren, ibid., p.'42, Tab. VI, fig. 42. 

 Typosyllis armillaris, Marenzeller, Asm. K. K. Naturh. Hofmuseums,V(1890), 



p. 3. 



Two small and immature examples 11 mm. long agree well with the 

 descriptions cited above and bear out fully Marenzeller's conclasions 

 concerning the synonymy of the species and confirm his record of its 

 occurrence in Bering Sea. One specimen is beautifully marked with 

 dainty transverse lines of dark brown or black pigment; there being 

 two lines across each segment as far as X^' and beyond that point one 

 line to the middle of the body. The accessory tooth at the tip of the 

 setaj, which was overlooke<i by Malmgren, is almost always present. 

 The median tentacle has 15 joints, the paired tentacles 11 to 14 joints, 

 the dorsal and ventral peristomial cirri 15 and 10 respectively, the first 

 dorsal cirrus (somite II) 18 joints, the middle dorsal cirri 9 to 14 joints, 

 with the greatest diameter at the 4th or 5th, and the caudal cirri 14 

 joints. In one specimen the gizzard extends from somite XIII to 

 XXII. 



Stations 4261, Dundas Bay, Icy Strait, Alaska, July 24, 8^10 

 fathoms, green mud and rocks; 4289, Uyak Bay, Kiuliak Island, 

 Alaska, 74-80 fathoms, gray mud. 



Syllis alternata new species. 



The type and largest example (from Station 4228) is 30 mm. long 

 with 160 segments, the posterior 28 of which are filletl with cggsi 

 without, however, exhibiting any sign of stolonization. Other examples 

 are from 16 to 20 mm. long with from 116 to 125 segments. The form 

 is slender and the diameter nearly vmiform, the body slightly widened 

 to about XX, strongly archetl above and flattene^.l below. The seg- 

 ments are all sharply define*! and very short, usually 6 to 8 times as 

 wide as long. 



The prostomium (a) is about \\ times as wide as long, as shown in 

 the figure of a cotype, but may l)e partly conceale<^i beneath a fold of 

 the peristomiurn. Slight anterior and posterior contractions give 

 the effect of prf)mincntly bulging sides. Tlic palpi arc about twice the 

 length of the prostomium, project prominently straight forward and 

 are narrow distally. Of the two pairs of small reddish-brown eyes, the 

 anterior are larger, decidc<lly farther apart and crescentic or l)can- 

 8hape<i as seen from above. In the type specimen the two pairs of 

 eyes are closer together but not larger than in the smaller specimens. 




324 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADE^n' OF 



[Jimc^ 



All of the appendages are strongly monilifonn. The tentacles are 

 rather stout but gently tapered. The median arises between the eyes, 

 is nearly twice the lengtli of prostoniium and palpi and consists of 22 to 

 30 joints. The lateral tentacles arise from the antero-lateral face of 

 the prostoniium, are H times as long as the latter plus the palps and 

 consist of about 20 joints. The peristomial cirii are quite similar in 

 form, the dorsal consisting of about 20 to 25 joints and equalling the 

 median tentacle and the ventral consisting of 15 joints and equalling 



Syllis aUemata — a, cephalic region from al>ove, X 24; h, jiarapodium X, X 32; 

 c, parapodiuni LI, X 32; d, a moderately l()np-l)laded seta from tlie dorsal 

 part of pnrapodiuin X, X tj()0; e, a short -l)laded seta from the ventral part 

 of the same, X 000; /, ends of two aeicula, X 000. 



the lateral tentacle in length. The fii-st dorsal cirrus is very long, 

 especially on the type, in which it lias al)out 35 joints. 



The parapodia (/> and c) an* ratlier stout and short. l)hMit and broadly 

 rounded distally. N'entral cirri are slender, unjointed, little tapered 

 and reach beyond the end of the neuropodiuni. The doi-sal cirri, on 

 the other hand, are all very strongly nionilifonn and gently tapered 

 throughout. They are longest and nearly iniiform on the anterior 15 

 segment'*, on which they nearly equal the diameter of the body. 

 Farther back they are alternately long and short, but never e([ual to 

 the anterior ones. From about 25 and 18 respectively in this region 

 the number oi joints becomes re<luccd at the caudal end quite rapidly 




190S.] NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 325 



until on the last but one remains. In the several specimens the 

 caudal cirri have from 16 to 25 joints. 



Xo notopoclial aciculum is present, but there are usually 3 neuropotlials 

 (/) with knobbed ends of various forms. The neuropodial seta? usually 

 number about 10, disposetl in 3 'or 4 ranks. They are colorless, homo- 

 geneous, and rather milky vitreous in appearance. The rather stout 

 stems have 4 or 5 minute teeth on the convexity of the enlarged ends 

 (d and e) which are strongly oblique and pos.sessa well-tleveloped socket. 

 The appended bla<les of the dorsalmost setse (d) are quite long, some 

 of those of the anterior segments exceeding by \ the one figure<l. The 

 ventral and posterior ones arc shorter (e), and some of the shortest are 

 claw-like and little exceed the obliquity of the end of the shaft in 

 length. The end is strongly hooke<l, the accessory tooth well developed, 

 and the marginal fringe very fine. 



In one specimen the jirotruded proboscis is a short and nearly 

 cylindrical cuj) l>earing 10 ))rominent soft marginal papilhi'. In 

 another the gizzard lies in somites IX to XXI, in still another in XIX 

 to XXX\TI. The cuticle of this .species is noticeably thick. Xo trace 

 whatever of color remains. 



Station 422.S (type), vicinity of Xalia Jiay, Hchm Canal, southeastern 

 Alaska, 41-134 fatiioms, gravel and sponges; 4235. vicinity of Yes Bay, 

 Behm Canal. 130-193 fathoms, gray mud; 42()1. Dundas Bay, Icy 

 .Strait, Alaska. Sl-lO fatiioms, gray nuid and rocks, 



Syllis (Chsetosyllii) quaternaria Moore. 



Si/lliii f[unlermtria .M<><jn', I'roc. .Vcad. .\;it. Sci. I'liila., I'.MX), pp. .■}.i2-35l 

 ■ (t«'.\t fig.). 



This epitokous form of the ty|)(' for uhicli Malmgren established his 

 geims ('hdtnsifllis is prol)al)ly a true .S'/y'^<'.s*, though it cannot ije corre- 

 lateil with any known non-sexual form. The type ami about a score 

 of other specimeas arc Xo. 10!)1 of the Academy's collection. They 

 were taken by A. K. Mcllhenny at the "surface in a lead four miles 

 frf)m sJntH'" at Point liarrow. .Ahtska. 



Pionoayllis mag^nifloa .Moorp. 



Pionvsi/llis iiKii/nifirn Modrc, IVoc Acad. N'at. Sci. I'liila,, HK)0, pp. 'J'_'.'J-225, 

 I'l. X, figs. 9-11. 



This large and handsome syllid is represented i)y two specimens, one 

 (the type) corniMg from Station 421'.). .Admiralty Inlet, vicinity of Tort 

 TownsentI, Washington, 1(> 2f» fathoms, gn-cn mud. sand and broken 

 shells; the other from Station 1211, Kasaan Bay. I'rincc of Wales 

 Island, xouthca-^tcrn Alaska, 50 51 fathom-^, green nuid. 

 Plonoiyllit gigantea now fi|>«cieii. 



Three fragments of the anterior end, the largt'st comi)rising but 10 




326 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



segments, represent a species mucli larger than P. vmgnifica, from 

 which it is distinguishal by numerous characters. The type, consist- 

 ing of 40 segment.s, is 16 mm. long, 4 mm. in width of body and 7 mm. 

 between the tips of the setae. The prostomium is nearly quadrate 

 but slightly wider anteriorly, where the angles are roundetl ; it is quite 

 deeply cut into two lobes by a median cleft posteriorly. The palpi are 

 broad, flattened, broadly rounded at the ends and slightly exceed the 

 prostomium in length; at the base they are coalesced but diverge widely 

 and curve ventrad distally. The eyes of both pairs are reddish brown, 

 small and round, the anterior very little larger than the posterior and 

 directly in front of them or but little farther apart. The dorsal 

 cephaUc appendages are imperfect on all of the specimens, but are 

 evidently slender, tapering, smooth and fiagelliform. The middle 

 tentacle is apparently about 3i times and the lateral tentacles about 

 twice the length of the prostomium and palpi. The former arises 



^^^...,*ii«*«**^^^ 



^^*^^V^^^^;:^^<t 



PionoxyUlu gignnten — a, parapodiiim XXV, widinut sot;r, X 24; h, parapodium L, 

 wthoutsetjL', X 24;c, a seta witli l)la<lff)f average k'ligtli, from XXV, X 360. 



from the center of the prostomium, the latter from the anterior lateral 

 margins. The very short, slightly flaring proboscis bears 9 or 10 

 marginal papillic and apparently is unprovidt^d with a strongly cuticular 

 region. 



The pori.stomium is extremely short above, where it is represented 

 chiefly by a fold of int<?gument which conceals the posterior lobes of 

 the prostomium. At the sides it is better developed and ventrally is 

 crowde<J forward with the next two segments beneath the prostomium. 

 Its tentacular cirri are similar to the prostomial appendages, the dorsal 




1908.] NATURAL SCTENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 327 



about 5 times the length of the head and the ventral only about t\\-ice 

 that length. Remaining somites are very short anteriorly, but from 

 the twentieth onward are only 6 or 7 times as wnde as long. Dorsally 

 they are strongly arched, ventrally flattened. The intersegmental 

 furrows are well marketl, perhaps exaggerated by contraction of the 

 longitudinal muscles. 



All of the parapodia (a and b) are prominent and spring from the 

 lowest level of the sides of the body. Xotopodia are entirely wanting, 

 even the acicula appearing to be absent. The neuropodia, on the other 

 hand, are stout, those at the anterior end being nearly truncated, 

 while the more posterior ones are bevelled from the dorsal or acicular 

 angle. All, however, possess slender and prominent presetal papillae 

 at this angle. Ventral cirri are remarkably large and swollen on the 

 ant<?rior parapodia and end bluntly, but farther back they become 

 reduced in size and more slender and an annular constriction may 

 separate the pointed end as a separate piece. 



The most striking charact<;ristic of the species is the great length 

 of the anterior doi-sal cirri which form a tangletl mass at the sides of 

 the body; they are so easily detached that few of them remain. 

 They arise from rather stout but short cirrophores (a) which are not 

 sliarply distinguishes! from the sides of the somit<»s. The styles are 

 smooth, tapering and very slender toward the end, like whiplashes. 

 On one of the smaller specimens, which has 29 segments measuring 8 

 mm. long, an<l a maxinuun body width of 3 mm., the dorsal cirrus of 

 somite IV measures no less than 14 mm. long. The cirri are alternately 

 longer and shorter, and after about the first ten those borne on the 

 even numbered somites are regularly 2 to 2^ times the body width, 

 while those on the odd numbered somites little exceed the body width. 



Neuropodia are sui)j)orte<l by 5 or 6 acicula which taper gradually 

 almost to the end, where they are slightly curvcil and end abruptly in 

 short conical points. The seta; (c) project rather prominently in asu- 

 ally 5 subacicuJar ranks of .3 or 4 each. In any one parapo<lium they 

 are remarkal)ly uniform in length of bla<le, etc., but the blades Imcome 

 gradually shorter and wider and the shafts stouter from before back- 

 wards. The shaft (c) exhibit.s but a slight distal enlargement, but is 

 conspicuously and very une<iually lufid, the larger and longer process 

 ending quite acutely and being provided along the front with 4 or 5 

 obi^curc t<'eth. The bhule.-; or appendagj-s are rather long, strongly 

 hookeil and bifid at the end, and especially noteworthy for the coarse- 

 ncs.M of their marginal serrations. 



With the exception of the prostoniiuni an<l the dorsal cirri these 




32S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juiie 



annelids are much pigmentetl both al)ove and below \vitl\ chocolate 

 brown. 



Stations 4199, Queen Charlotte Sound, off I'ort Rupert, \'ancouver 

 Island, li. C. 68-107 fathoms, soft green mud and volcanic sand; 4228 

 (type), vicinity of Xaha Bay, Behm Canal, southeastern Alaska, 41-134 

 fathoms, gravel and sponges; 4300, off Shakan. Sumner Strait, south- 

 eastern Alaska, 185-218 fathoms, rocks and mud. 



Trypanosyllis gemmipara Johnson. 



Tri/pano.ttjlliii gemmipara Johnson, Proc. Bos. Soc. Xat. Hi.st.,XXIX, 1901, 

 pp. 405, 106. 



This species is represented in the collection by two sjjecimens. As 

 one of them permits the verification of Johnson's very interesting dis- 

 coveiy of collateral budding in this genus, it is unfortunate that the 

 preservation is altogether too imperfect to enable me to describe the 

 conditions fully. The buds are all quite young and occur in several 

 close tufts arranged in a transvei"se row about 35 segments anterior 

 to the anus, and all on the ventral surface, where the integuments are 

 split open at their place of origin. Collateral budding of a type 

 similar to that describe<l by Johnson in T. (jcynmipara and T. nigens 

 has recently been found by Izuka in a Ja|)anese species, T. ?nisakiensis, 

 also. 



Taken only at Station 4197, CJulf of Georgia, Plalibut liank, 31-90 

 fathoms, sticky green mud and fine i-and. 



PHYLLODOCID^. 



Phyllodoce citrina Malinjtrcn. 



J'l(i/llti(lorc cilrhm Malnigren, Ofvers. Kgl. Vct.-.Vkad. I'orli., 1.SG5, p. 95. 



Two poorly preserved specimens which agree closely with the descrip- 

 tions of this species were taken at Afognak Island. The eyes are nuich 

 larger than shown in Malmgren's figiu'es and both specimens are filled 

 with eggs, Marenzcllor reports this species from Bering Sea. 



Stations 4271, Afognak Hay, Afognak Island, llA-20 fathoms, hard 

 gray sand and rocks; 4272, the same, 12 17 fathoms, sticky mud. 



Phyllodooe mucosa OorNtcil. 



I'hijUo(hrc mucoMi, (Jerst***!, Ann. D.in. Cunsp., p. :{| . 



A single nnich relaxe<l specimen of this species, 75 mm. long, includ- 

 ing the pn)tnide<l proboscis, closely resembles the figures and descrip- 

 tion.s of this species, but pf>s,sc's.ses a greater nunibci- of seta* than is 

 usually altributcil to it. 



This example is \o. 2.SI. Coll. .\c!id. .\at. ,Sci. IMiila., collcctivl by 

 Dr. I'cnjamin Sharp at ley Cape, Alaska. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 329 



Ealalia longicornata Muore. 



E alalia longicornuta Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 1906, pp. 222, 223, 

 PI. X, Hgs. 7, 8. 



Two .specimens found among serpulid tubes taken at the Quarantine 

 Station dock near Port Towitsend, Washington, on June 27, 1903. The 

 type is filled with eggs. In both the color has fadeil to a nearly imiform 

 olive with brown striations on the doi-sal cirri. 



Ealalia qaadriocnlata M<><>re. 



Eulatia fjuadrioculata Moore, Proc. Acad. X;it. Sci. Pliila., 1900, pp. 220, 221, 

 PI. X, figs. 4-6. 



The two specimens, one of them a female fille<l with large eggs, 

 were taken at (Quarantine Rock, Port Townsend, Washington, on June 

 27, 1903. 



Notophyllum imbrioatam Moore. 



Xuloithi/llum hnbricalmn Mooro, Proc. .\cail. Xat. Sci. Pliila., 190G, pp. 217- 

 219, Pi. X, figs. 1-3. 



The type comes from Station 42S0. Uyak Bay, Kadiak Island. 74-SO 



fathoms, gray mud; the cotypc from Station -]20i), Afognak Bay, 14-19 



fathoms, hard gray sand and rocks. 



POLYNOID^ 

 Hololepida magna >foorc. 



JIdlole/jiila inagrut .Monro, Proc. .\cad. Xat. Sci. Pliila., 190.">, jip. '^\\-^A\, 

 PI. X.W, fig.s. 24-29. 



A single example of this very large and remarkable sj^ecies was taken 

 at Statical 4247 (not 4198 as erroneously recorded in the original 

 description), Kasaan liay. Prince of Wales Island, southeastern Alaska, 

 9.5-114 fathoms, green mud, fine sand and broken shells. 



It was taken from the interior of a large vase-shaped sponge, and 

 according to the label the color during life was "creamy white chang- 

 ing to pinkisji along doi-sal surface." Dr. Heath tells me that on the 

 living worm the elytra were very easily detached and not coherent as 

 after i)reservation; though of gelatinous consistency they were very 

 brittle. 



Haloiydna pulchra (.lolinwm). 



I'nhjiuH /iiil'ltnijnhfwon, Proc. Cul. .\cad. Sci. (3), I, (1S97), p. 177. 

 Single specimens of this interesting species were taken at several 

 Ahiskan localities. A few notopodial sette usually occur on most of the 

 parapinliji. Tnc specimens vary much in color, some being colorless, 

 others with the elytra more or less complet.-ly speckle<l with brown, and 

 one, found living conunensally on a holothurian, is recorde<l on the 

 lalu'l as having been poppy red on the doixal surface, lighter beneath. 




330 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



The cephalic appcndafijes may possess a filamentous distal part. An 

 incomplete example filled with eggs, and taken at Station 4215, has 

 the median tentacle twice as long as the lateral and is referred doubt- 

 fully to this species. 



Stations 4219, Admiralty Inlet, vicinity of Port Townsend, Wash- 

 ington, 16 fathoms, soft green mud, from starfish; 4222, same region, 

 39 fathoms, gray sand and broken shells, from holothurian (Stichopus 

 ccdijornica) ; 4223, Boca de Quadra, southeastern Alaska, 48-57 fathoms, 

 soft green mud, young; 4272, Afognak Bay, Afognak Island, 12-17 

 fathoms, sticky mud, one ver\' beautiful specimen and one smaller and 

 colorless one, both from the ten-armed starfish {Solaster decemradiata). 



Halosydna lordi Baird. 



Ilalo-iydna lordi Baird, Journ. Linn. Soc. London, VIII, (1865), p. 190. 



A single imperfect specimen without elytra represents this species. 

 In the same bottle is an arm of a starfish {Luidia columbice Gray), upon 

 which it was presumably commensal. Xanaimo Bay, Vancouver 

 Island, B. C, 12 fathoms, on fish line. 



Halosydna insignis Baird. 



Halosydna insignis Baird, Joum. Linn. Soc. London, \^II, (1865), p. 188. 



Johnson in his paper on the Polychaeta of Puget Sound has already 

 not€<l the occurrence of this species as far north as Kadiak Island. 

 Johnson also describes in the Proc. Col. Acad. Sci. for 1897 some most 

 interesting variations in relation to habitat. 



Of the several specimens in this collection scarcely two are alike in 

 color, and they also differ in the extent to which the back is covered by 

 the elytra, the tuberculation of the elytra and the shape of the end of 

 the dorsal cirri — whether abrupt!}' terminating in a short filament or 

 not. None of the specimens is rccorde<l as commensal. 



Union Bay, Vancouver Lsland, B. C. ; Port Townsend, Washington, 

 at Quarantine Dock; Stations 4209, Admiralty Inlet, Port Townsend, 

 Washington, 24-25 fathoms, rocks, coarse sand and shells; 4253, 

 Stephens Pa.s.sage, Alaska, 131-188 fathoms, rocks and broken sht^lla. 



L«pidoDotai robaitai M'^re. 



LepitV)nnlHn robiixtu^ Moore, Proc. .\cad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 11X)5, pp. 544-546, 

 I'I.X.\.\VI,figrt. 32-35. 



The only known specimen of this noteworthy species was taken from 

 the shell of a hermit crab at Stati(.ii 4291, Shelikof Strait, 48 to 65 

 fathoms, bottom of blue mud, sand and gravel. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 331 



Lepidonotas oaeloris Moore. 



LepidotiotiLs caloris Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1903, pp. 412-414. 

 PI. XXIII, fig. 12. 



This species, originally described from specimens dredged off the 

 coast of Japan, proves to be one of the most abundant and generall}'- 

 distributed species of Polychata throughout the region covered by these 

 exploratioas. It represents in the North Pacific the widely spread 

 L. squamaius of the Atlantic, but is quite distinct from that ."Jipecies. 

 The detached subniarginal tuft of cilia that is so conspicuous and 

 constant a feature on the elytra of the latter species is quite absent in 

 the former, in which, also, the marginal fla.sk-shapetl sense organs are 

 very much fewer and smaller. The outer surface of the elytra is less 

 hairy and bears more numerous and rather smoother papilla^. Much 

 variation is evident in the size, number, arrangement and sculpturing 

 of the papillx' and in the color of the elytra, some specimens being 

 nearly black, others reddish brown, and still others orange or yellow. 

 The neuropcxlial settr are quite distinct from those of /.. sqnattiains, 

 being more slender, less strongly hooked, more extensively ctenate and 

 in a greater number of rows. 



AH of these differences are most apparent in the adults, especially 

 when individuals of equal size are compared. The young of L. caioris 

 much more closely resemble the Atlantic species, especially in the 

 greatt'r hairiness of the elytra, and it seems not improbable that the 

 small specimens of L. squamalus recorded by Johnson from I'uget Sound 

 and California and by Marenzeller from Japan may be of this species. 

 It is also not improbable that intermediate forms may be found to con- 

 nect the two in the Arctic regions, in which case L. cccloris would 

 become a well-marked subspecies. 



Represented in the collections by a greater number of individuals 

 than any other species, Lepidonotus caioris was found at many ])oints 

 between Vancouver and Kjwliak Islands, at depths ranging from IS to 

 313 fathoms and on most kinds of bottom, though naturally most often 

 on mud. It was most abundant on muddy bottoms in the CJulf of 

 CJeorgia, on a gravelly bottom with sponges at Station 422S, near 

 Naha Hay in the Hohm Canal, and on a bottom of rock and broken 

 shells at Station 4253 in St('i)hens Pa.ssage, Ala.ska. 



The stations at which Lcpidonotwi cdhris was taken are 4192, 4193, 



4197, 4198, 4227, 4228, 4234, 4235, 4239, 4245, 4253, 4258 and 4274. 



Polynoe tnU <^riil>«>. 



Pnhino, luhi (\r\i\>i', Arrli. f. NaturRPS., X,\I, IR.W, Ikl. I. p. 82. 



Iliinniithor tutu Joliiisoii, IVor. I^»s. S»c. Nut. Hist., XXI\ (10()1), pp. 394, 6. 



Of i\\v throe examples of this species in tlie <'<>IN<tinii, the orjo from 




332 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Fort Rupert agrees exactly with the descri])tion p;iven b}' Johnson; the 

 other two have the cephaUc appeniiages and the doi'sal cirri longer and 

 more slender, the eyes farther back, and the neuropodial setae more 

 slender. .\11 of them exhibit marked asymmetry in the arrangement 

 of the elytra. 



Fort Rupert, shore of Union Bay, ^^ancouver Island, B. C, and Sta- 

 tions 4193. Halibut Bank, (Julf of Georgia. B. C, 18-23 fathoms, green 

 mud and fine sand; 4197, same locality, 31-90 fathoms, sticky green 

 mutl and fine sand. 



Polynoe fragilis (Baird) Johnson. 



Lepidonohis fragilis Baird, Proc. Zool. Soc. Lon., 1803, p. 108. 



Pubjnoe jragilis, Jolin.son, Proc. Cal. Acad., Vol. I, Zoology, pp. 179-181. 



Three complete examples from near Port Townsend alone represent 

 this most interesting commensal istic species. The margins of the 

 elytra are frequently more complexly folded than is indicated by 

 Johnson. Dr. Heath's label states that the color in life is "entire 

 surface of body light yellow, the elytra allowing the color of the body 

 to show through." It is stated that the specimens were taken from 

 Astcrias sp. The resemblance of these worms to the arms of the star- 

 fish is most remarkable and is a subject well worth careful and detailed 

 study by someone on the ground. 



Station 4222, Admiralty Inlet, vicinity of Port Townsend, Washing- 

 ton, 39 fathoms, gray sand and broken shells. 



Hermadion trancata Moore. 



II(irmnlho( triinrnta Moore, Proc. .\cad. Xaf. Sri. Pliila., 1902, pp. 272-274, 

 PI. XIV, fig.s. 21-28. 



This species was originally described from the anterior end of a 

 specimen in the collection of the Academy of .Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia, at that time suppose<l to have been collected in Green- 

 land, l)ut now believe(l to have been taken by Dr. Benjamin Sharp at 

 Icy Cape, Alaska. It is well represented in this collection from the 

 mr)re southern stations. The completeness of some of the examples 

 permits the adflition of the following notes to the original description, 

 A length of 80 mm. is attained, the posterior region of the body being 

 slender and tapering. There are fiii segments with 15 pail's of elytra, 

 borne on segments H, IV. V, VII, IX, XI, XIII, XV, XVII, XIX, 

 XXI, XXIII, XXVI, XXIX and XXXII, and leaving the posterior 

 j)art of the body unprotected except by the bristling setae. The 

 re[)halic peaks are rudimentary, being coalesced with the bases of the 

 lateral tentacles, and the anterior eyes are farther forward than in the 

 type. The style of the me<lian tentacle is slender, al>oul twice the 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 333 



lenf!;th of the prostomium and ha.s a scarcely perceptil^le siibterniinal 

 enlargement. The lateral tentacles are very short, the short, conical 

 styles with their terminal filaments scarcely exceeding the ceratophores. 

 The extended palpi taper regularly to the end, are slender and 7-8 times 

 the prostomial length. Anterior elytra are circular, the others broadly 

 elliptical, Asith weak attachment laterad of the center. Their texture 

 is soft and flexible, the surface smooth and punctate and entirely 

 lacking cilia or papilhe of any sort, but with the margin slightly thick- 

 enefl and upturne<l. The inner half is brown, the outer white in agree- 

 ment with the color of the body. Doi"sal cirri are rather stout with 

 prominent cirrophores and the styles reach beyond the tips of the 

 parapodia. They taper regularly to a subtemiinal enlargement, beyond 

 which is a short filament. Posterior cirri are longer and more .'^lender 

 and the anal cirri are stouter and very long, eciualling the last 9 somites. 

 Usually but one anal cirrus is fully developed. A broad rich brown 

 stripe marks the dorsum, being more or le.ss broken in the middle of the 

 bcnly and spreading over the entire back posteriorly where a me<lian 

 white line sometimes divides it. Dorsal cephalic appendages and 

 dorsal cirri chiefly brown with subterminal and terminal white rings 

 All other parts, including entire venter, white. 



Stations 4193, Halibut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, li. C, 18-23 fathoms,- 

 green mud and fine sand; 4197, same rcs^ion. 31-90 fathoms, sticky 

 green nuid and fine sand; 4199, Queon Charlotte Sound, off Fort 

 Rupert, Vancouver Island, B. C, 68-107 fathoms, sticky green mud 

 and volcanic sand; 4208, Admiralty Inlet, vicinity of Port Townsend, 

 Washington, 83-99 fathoms, rocky; 42ir>, same region, 79-101 fathoms, 

 rocky ; 4227, vicinity of Naha Bay, Behm Canal, Alaska, 62-65 fathoms, 

 dark green mud and fine sand. 



Eanoe depresaa Moore. 



Kuun, lirpressn Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 19().5, pp. 536-538, Pla. 

 X.X.XIV, fiRs. 17, IS; XX.XV, figs. 19, 20. 



Besides a fragment labelled Union Bay, li. C., 6-22-'03, this species 

 is represented by specimens from Stations 42<il (type), Dunda.s Bay, 

 Icy .'^trait, 8^-10 fathoms, green nni<l and rocks; 4270. .Afoniuvk Bay, 

 Afognak Island, .Alaska, 14-19 fathoms, hard gray .sand aiul rock. The 

 latter is labelled "Hermit crab, messmate," and many of the papilhe 

 on the elytra bear 2 or 3 spines. 



I also refer provisionally to this species under the nanie of var. 

 trutmrniUata a specimen which may represent a distinct but related 

 species. It mea-^un'S 20 mm. long and hjis a form similar to but some- 

 what less broa<l and (lepresse<l than typical dcprcsita. The |>alpi are 




334 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



barely twice the length of the prostoniium, but the other cephalic 

 appendages are longer and much more slender than in the typical 

 form. The median tentacle is about 3^ times and the lateral tentacles 

 nearly 1| times the length of the prostomium. The cirrophores of 

 the dorsal cirri reach to the end of the notopodia antl the slender styles 

 possess long filiform tips which reach to the tips of the longest seta\ 

 The elytra are thimier and more membranous and their shape more 

 ovatc-reniform. They also have larger, firmer, and more mammiliform 

 papillai. But the chief distinction is a strong fringe of cilia along the 

 outer margin of each of the elytra. The general color is reddish 

 brown and the elytra bluish pearl with the larger papilloi orange brown. 

 The label states that this specimen was taken from the branchial 

 chamber of an 11-pound crab. Station 4276, Alitak Bay, Kadiak 

 Island, Alaska, 22-25 fathoms, fine sand and mud. 



Harmothoe imbricata (LLnn.) Malmgren. 



Ilarmothoe imbricata, Mcintosh, Monograph of British .\nnelids. Part II, 1900, 

 pp. 314-327. 



All of the specimens of this ubiquitous species, which is alreadj^ well 

 known from the North Pacific, are of small size, the largest being 30 

 nun. long and most of them much smaller. They present the usual 

 color varieties seen in Atlantic Coast specimens, some being more or less 

 strongly mottled, others having a median light or dark brown band of 

 greater or less breadth. The marginal papillic on the elytra may be 

 numerous or nearly absent. The two specimens from Kilisut Harbor 

 have the smooth tips of the notopodial setaj longer than usual. 



ICilisut Harbor, near Port Tow nsend, Washington; and Stations 4269, 

 Afognak Bay, Afognak Island, Alaska, 14^19 fathoms, hard gray sand 

 and rocks; 4271, same region, 11^-20 fathoms, hard gray sand and 

 rocks ; 4275, Alitak Bay, Kadiak Island, Alaska, 35-36 fathoms, 

 green mud and fine sand ; 4289, Uyak Bay, Kadiak Island, 74-80 

 fathoms, gray mud. 



Harmothoe hirsuta Johnvin. 



Ilarmollioe hirsuta Johnson, Proc. C;il. Acad. Soi., (3), I (Zoology), pp, 182, 

 183. 



Three examples referred to this species indicate that it is subject to 

 considerable variation. The examination of an e.\tensive series of the 

 Ilarmothoes from this region will be necessary to establish the e.xact 

 statu.s f)f these variants. 



Stations 4205, Admiralty Inlet, Port Townsend, Alaska, 15-26 

 fathoms, rocks and shells, a single specimen which agrees with John- 

 son's dcHcrif)tion and figures accurately except that the elytra, although 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 335 



bearing large papilhe, lack distinct marginal areas; 42()0. J3nndas Bay, 

 Icy Strait, 8V-21 fathoms, coarse sand and rocks, one similar to the 

 last but more distinctly colored; 4259, same region, 21-78 fathoms, 

 gray sand, broken shells and rocks, a small example with well-marked 

 marginal areas on the elytra but' few large papilla; and with the inter- 

 sections of the ridges between the areas sometimes producetl into large, 

 coarse cilia. 



Lagisca maltisetosa Moore. 



Liuilscn tnulti.selosa Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1902, pp. 267-269, 

 PI. XIV, figs. 29-36. 



This is another species which was originally incorrectly attributed to 

 Greenland, the t3'pe locality being almost certainly Icy Cape, Alaska. 

 Like Hermculioa truncata it is rather plentiful in the collections from 

 the Gulf of Georgia to Behm Canal, being represented, mostly by frag- 

 mentary specimens, in the collections from the following: 



Statioas 4193, Halibut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, B. C, 18-23 fathoms, 

 green nuul and fine sand; 4194, same region, 111-170 fathoms, soft 

 green nnid; 4197, .same region, 31-90 fathoms, sticky green mud ami 

 fine sand; 4199, Queen Charlotte Sound, off Fort Rupert, Vancouver 

 Island, B. C, GS-107 fathonis, soft green mud and volcanic sand ; 4223, 

 Boca de Quadra, southeastern Alaska, 48-57 fathoms, soft green mud ; 

 4228, vicinity of Naha Bay, Behin Canal, southeastern Alaska, 41-134 

 fathoms, gravel and sponges. 



The species appears to be especially common at the la*:t enumerate<I 

 station and several fragments taken here depart quite widely from the 

 typical form in the character of the elytra. These are designate<l as 

 variety paplllata, characterized as follows: The elytra bear more num- 

 eroas, larger and differently shaped soft papilhe and ver>' much fewer 

 and smaller hard conical papilhc; and instead of the numerous long 

 cilia on the exj)ose<l surface an<l near the outer margin of the elytra of 

 the typical form, these bear only a few very nnich .shorter cilia with 

 thickene<l ends, 



Ltgisoa rariipina (SarH) Malmicrcn. 



Ixiiiiscn rnrispina (.Sure) Mahngren, Ofvers. Kgl. \\-t.-.\kail. F'(irh., 1S6.'>. p. 



Occurring quite plentifully in the collections from the more northerly 

 pointfl in the Alaskan Gulf, where it apparently largely replaces L. 

 multisrtosa, this species is representinl by two varieties whicli are, 

 however, connectefl by interme< bates and njiparciitly occur indis- 

 criminately together at the same stations. 



The difference is in the presence or absence ot the soft nuirginal 




336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



papUliE on the elytra. On some examples these are ven- numerous. 

 especially on anterior elytra, and have exactly the elongated form and 

 the arrangement exhibited by typical representatives of the species 

 from Greenland and other North Atlantic localities. Others have 

 perfectly smooth eh'tra, altogether lacking these appendages. Be- 

 tween these two extreme categories, into which most of the specimens 

 fall, are some individuals intermediate in either the number or size of the 

 appendages or in both. Some have the papilhe very short and present 

 on many elytra and others very few papillae of normal or reduced size. 

 One bears a single papillae on one elytron and another half a dozen 

 papilhe distributed among three el3'tra. 



Statioas 4193, Gulf of Georgia, B. C, 18-23 fathoms, green mud and 

 fine sand ; 4198, Hahbut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, B. C, 157-230 fathoms, 

 soft green mud; 4219, Admiralty Iidet, Port Townsend, Washington, 

 16-26 fathoms, green mud, sand, broken shells; 4225, Boca de Quadra, 

 southeastern Alaska, 149-181 fathoms, dark green mud — a single 

 example from each of these stations; 4235, vicinity of Yes Bay, Behm 

 Canal, 130-193 fathoms, gray mud; 4253, Stephens Passage, Alaska, 

 131-188 fathoms, rocks and broken shells; 4258, vicinity of Funter 

 Bay, Lynn Canal, 300-313 fathoms, mud — plentiful at the last two 

 stations; 4263, Dundas Bay, Icy Strait, Q\-9 fathoms, coarse sand and 

 rocks; 4289, Uyak Bay, Kadiak Island, 74-80 fathoms, gray mud. 



Antinoe maorolepida Moore. 



ArUinoi} tntirrolepida Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 1905, pp. 538-541, 

 PI. XXXV, figs. 21-23. 



Antinoii marrolepida is plentiful at the more northerly stations, but 

 occurs as far south as the Gulf of Georgia. It is represented in the 

 collections frocn the following stations: 4192, off Nanaimo, Vancouver 

 Island, B. C, S9-97 fatiioms, green mud and fine sand; 4193, 

 Halibut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, B. C, 18-23 fathoms, green mud and 

 fine sand; 4194, .same region, 111-170 fathoms, soft green mud; 4230, 

 vicinity of Naha Bay, Behm Canal, southeastern Alaska, lOS-240 

 fathom-s, rocky; 4236, vicinity of Yes Bay, Behm Canal, 147-205 

 fathoms, rocks and coarse .sand; 4237, same region, 194-198 fathoms, 

 green mud; 4201 (typo and several other specimens), off l-'reshwater 

 Bay, Chatham Strait, 282-293 fathoms, green mud; 4299, off Sliakan, 

 Sumner Strait, southeastern Alaska, 153-218 fathoms, sand and rocks. 



Oattjrana amondieni (.MnlmRmi). 



Xijclua amuniLicni .Mulin^rcii, .Viumhita Polycl»a;ta, etc., l>S(i7, pp. 5 ami G. 

 Three specimens taken at northern stations agree very clo.sely with 

 Malmgrcn's description and figures of this species. I'he neuropodial 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 337 



setap are rather more slender and the bifid papilla? on the elytra rather 

 more deeply cleft. 



Stations 4253, Stephens Passage, Alaska, 131-188 fathonis, rocks and 

 broken shells; 4272, Afognak Bay, Afognak Island, 12-17 fathoms, 

 sticky mud ; 4274, Alitak Bay, Kadiak Island, 35-30 fathoms, green 

 mud and fine sand. 



Gattyana ciliata Moore. 



Gdlh/ana rilialn Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1902, pp. 263-26G Tl. 

 XIII, figs. 14-19. 



The type (Xo. 28, Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.) was taken at Icy Cape, 



and a single example in this collection comes from Station 4289, 



Uyak Bay, Kadiak Islaml, 74-80 fathoms, gray mud. 



Oattyana cirrosa (Pallas) Mclniooh. 



(iiilli/(uin cirrosa Mclntosli, Monograph of Britisli .Vnnolids, Part II, (1900), 

 pp. 28.5-291. 



The only example taken i.s from Station 4272, Afognak Pay, Afognak 



Island, 12-17 fathoms, sticky mud. 



Gattjana senta Miioro. 



Gall'idna seiUn Moore, Proc. .Vcad. .Nat. Sci. Pliila.. 1902, pp. 259-203, Pi. 

 XIII, figs. 1-13. 



This species, the type f»f whicii came from Icy Cape and is in the 

 collection of the Academy of Natin-al Sciences, ap])ears to be quite 

 plentifid on the muddy bottoms of the Gulf of Georgia and equally so 

 on a gravelly bottom at Station 422S in Bchm Canal. Most of tiie 

 examples have lost most of the elytra and are otherwise mutilate<-l, but 

 one specimen permits the description of the posterior elytra which were 

 lacking on the type. They are nearly circular in outline and of smaller 

 size and softer texture than the anterior elytra, but the most striking 

 difference is in the veiy great length of the termiiud i)ranches of the 

 dendritic spines of the posteri(»r margin, tl)e number of forkings of 

 wliich is, however, less than on anterior scales. 



Stations 4191, Gulf of Georgia, off \anaimo, \'ancou\('r Island, B. C, 

 54-89 fathoms, fine dark sand, mud ant! rocks; 419."). Halibut Bank, 

 Gulf of Georgia, 18-23 fathoms, green mud and ihw san<l; 4197, same 

 locality, 31-90 fathoms, sticky green mud and fine -and: 4198, same 

 locality, 157-230 fathoms, soft green mud ; 422S, \iciiiity of Xaha Hay, 

 jichm Canal, southea.'^tern .'\ht><ka, 11 1.34 fathoius. gravel and sponge. 



Melsnii lovani Mttlmicrcn. 



Melanin Loveni .Malingrcn, OfvcrH. Kong. V'et.-.\ku<l. KOrli., lS<).'i, pp. 78, 79. 

 Three examples collectefl by Dr. Henjamin Sharp at Icy Cape, 

 Alaska, are in the <'ollection of the Philadelj)hia Academy, No, 279. 




338 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



SIGALEONIDuE. 



Pholoe minata (Fabricius) Oersted. 



Phnloi' minuta (F'abricius), Mcintosh, Monograph of British Annelids, Part 

 II, (1900), pp. 437-442. 



A perfect e.xample nearly an incli in length was taken at Station 4272, 

 at Afognak Bay, Afognak Island, Alaska, in 12-17 fathoms, on a bottom 

 of sticky mud ; and a few fragments of a very small individiual prob- 

 ably of this species from a bottle containing a Halosydna insignis from 

 Port TowiLsend, Washington. 



Peisidice aspera Juhnson. 



Peisidice aspera Johnson, Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci., (3), (Zool.),Vol. I, pp. 184, 185. 



Single examples of this curious little polychffite occur at three rather 

 widely separated stations. The elytra are very stiff and rigid, appar- 

 ently due to a hard brownish secretion which is deposited in layers, thus 

 giving the appearance of concentric lines of growth. Sand grains adhere 

 to and become imbedded in this substance, esjiecially along the ridge of 

 the scale. This .'^ame secretion renders the body brittle, but no sand 

 graiiLS are borne on this region of these specimens. The haii"s of the 

 marginal fringes are very unequal, the longest being as much as ^ 

 of the long diameter of the scale. ^Many of tiie elytra are marked with 

 dark brown central spots. 



Stations 4228, ^•icinity of Naha Bay, Behm Canal, southeastern 

 Alaska, 41-134 fathoms, gravel and sponge; 4235, vicinity of Yes Bay, 

 130-193 fathoms, gray mud; 4253, Stephens Passage, 131-188 fathoms, 

 rock and broken shells. 



APHRODITIDuE. 

 Aphrodita japonica Maronzcller. 



A /ifirodiln jiipouini Marcnzcllcr, Dcnks. K. Akad. Wisscnsch., ^\ieIl, XI. I, 

 (l.S7'J),pp. Ill, 112. 



From the Gulf of Georgia to the head of Behm Canal this species is 

 common and especially so wherever muddy bottoms occur. These 

 specimens differ in no respect from those taken in tlie Albatross dredg- 

 ings off the coast of Japan in 1000. The neur()j)odial setip are unusually 

 prominent and slender and when young their lips are inca.sed in a 

 densely hair>' slioath, which later wears away, leaving the point 

 smooth. The notopcKJial seta) are completely imbedded in the felt and 

 are seldom visible. They are slender, .soft, curved, pale brown, rough- 

 ene<l toward the end and have the tip hooked. GiMicrally tlie color is 

 very dark — almost black — and the felt is dull, probably the result of 

 staining by .some constituent of the nmd in which they live. Tlie palpi 

 are whit<\ The specimens var}' in length from M fo SO mm. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 339 



Stations 4194, Halibut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, B. C, 111-170 

 fathoms, soft green mud; 4197, same region, 31-90 fathoms, sticky 

 green mud and fine sand; 4198, same region, 157-230 fathoms, soft 

 green mud; 4224, Boca de Quadra, southeastern Alaska, 156-166 

 fathoms, dark green mud; 4225; same region, 149-181 fathoms, dark 

 green mud; 4230, vicinity of Naha Bay, Behm Canal, southeastern 

 Alaska, 108-240 fathoms, rocky; 4231, same region, 82-113 fathoms, 

 green mud and fragments of slate; 4235, vicinity of Yes Bay, liehm 

 Canal, 130-193 fathoms, gray mud; 4236, same region, 147-205 

 fathoms, rock and coarse sand; 4237, same region, 192-198 fathoms, 

 green mud; 4238, same region, 229-231 fathoms, mud and rocks. 



Aphrodita negligens Moore. 



Aphrodita negligetvi Mooro, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, pp. 526-529, 

 VI XXXIV, figs. 1, 2; XXXV, %. 31. 



A single large example 60 mm. long, agreeing exactly with the type, 

 was taken at Station 4205, off Port Townsend, Washington, in 15-26 

 fathoms, on a bottom of rock and shells. The bo<ly cavity is filled 

 with egg-strings. 



Aphrodita parva .Moore. 



.\phroilita parva Moore, Proc. .Vcad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, pp. 529-532, PI. 

 XXXIV, flgs. 3-7. 



This small and very distinct species is known only from two speci- 

 meiLS taken at Station 4194, in the Gulf of Georgia, in HI to 170 

 fathoms, on a bottom of soft green mud. 



EUPHROSYNID^. 



Enphrosyne bioirrata Mooro. 



Euplirosijnc hirirrala Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, pp. 532-534, 

 PI. XXXIV, fig.s. S-12. 



This species, which belongs to the group including E. borcalis 

 Oersted and E. lotujisctosa llorst, was taken from the Gulf of Georgia 

 to Behm Canal, in depths ranging from 18 to 188 fathoms. It occurs 

 in the collections from the following stations: 4193 (type), Halibut 

 Bank, Gulf of Georgia, 18-23 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 

 4197, same region, 3l-(K) fathoms, sticky green mud and fine sand; 

 422S, vicinity of Naha liay, Behm Canal, southeastern Alaska, 41-134 

 fathonis, gravel and sponge; 4253, Stepheas I'a.s.'^age, .\laska, 131-188 

 fathonw, rock and broken shells. 



Euphroiyne hort«ntii .M<Mire. 



KuithroM/nr hnrtruxiH Moorc, Proc. .\cad. Nut. Sci. Phila., 1905, pp. 634-530, 

 PI. XX.XIV, hp*. 13-10. 



Much less common than the last, this species wiu* taken at Sttttions 




340 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



4272. .\fognak Bay, Afognak Island, 12-17 fathoms, sticky mud; and 

 4274, Alitak Bay, Kadiak Island, 35-41 fathoms, green mud and fine 

 sand. The latter is the t3'pe locality. 



Eaphrosyne arctica Johnson. 



Euphrosyne arctica Johnson, Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci., (3), Zoologj', Vol. I, p. 159. 



A small individual 10 mm. long is believetl to represent this species,, 

 the original tle-^icription of which was based upon a probably imperfect 

 and much contracted specimen. There are, however, some points of 

 difference between the two specimens, as the following brief descrip- 

 tion indicates. 



The form is strongly depressed, about equally rounded anteriorly and 

 posteriorly, the somites numbering 21, strongly marked and well 

 developed throughout. The subanal lobes or cirri are large, thick and 

 fleshy. The dorsal smooth field is about i the entire width and not 

 subdivided into areas. A black spot or group of spots occurs on the 

 posterior part of each segment behind the second gill. 



The caruncle is short and broad, reaching from the anterior margin of 

 II to the posterior margin of IV, and consists entirely of a rather high, 

 thick crest, little free behind. The median tentacle equals tlie caruncle 

 in length and the stout basal article, which furnishes | of its length, 

 nearly equals the caruncle in thickne.ss. The terminal piece is fila- 

 mentous. The dorsal eyes are very large, elongated and black. The 

 ventral eyes are coalesced and the ventral pairal tentacles minute. 



The dorsal cirri are very long, much exceeding the length of the 

 caruncle, .^lender and tapereil. The mc<lian cirrus arises between the 

 second and third gills and, like the ventral cirrus, is stouter than the 

 dorsal cirrus and equally long. Five pairs of gills occur on the miildle 

 region. They are arbusculate and spreading, with some 30 or more 

 slender, lanceolate terminal twigs forme<:l by as many as 5 or G irregular 

 dichotomous divisions. The set:e agree exactly with Johnson's figures. 



Station 4234, vicinity of Yes l>ay, Belun Canal, Ala.ska, 45 fathoms, 

 gray mud and rocks. 



ALCIOPID^. 

 Callizona angelini <K\u\>ctk) A|>stein. 



Callizuna Arujelini (Kinbcrj?) -Vpstciii, Die .MciopiUen unil Tonioptfritlcn licr 

 Plankton Expedition, Kiel, 1900, pp. 18, 19. 



Th(,' a<ldition of this species to the list of Ahiskan polycha-te-s becomes 

 p(.»rtMible tliroiigli the study of the contents of sahuon ston)achs sub- 

 mitted by Dr. II. .M. Smith. The salmon were taken at Yes Bay, 

 Alaska, on July 27 and 28, 1005, and contained a large innnbcr of 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 341 



remains. Many of the worms were already completely disintegrated, 

 but the anterior ends of some were sufficiently intact to remove any 

 reasonable doubt of the correctness of this identification. The only 

 respect in which they differ from the published descriptions is in the 

 presence of as many a.s 4 stout 'seta; in the first parapodium (somite 

 IV). A noteworthy characteristic of the species is the considerable 

 length of the cirriform appendage of the parapodia. 



Anteriorly the dorsum is a diluted chocolate brown, the surface of 

 the eye cups, the prostomium and a transverse band across each 

 segment being still darker. A brown spot at the base of each dorsal 

 cirrus appeal's to continue for the entire length of the body. The 

 large numbers in which these worms occur in the salmon stomachs and 

 the evidences that they were filletl with sperm and ova indicates that 

 at se.Kual matiM'ity tiiey must swim in great shoals at the surface. 



Originally described by Kinberg from the China Sea, this species has 

 siTice been twice taken in the Atlantic Ocean, but until now has not 

 been reported from the racific. 



HESIONID^. 

 Fodarke pagettensis Jolin.xon. 



Podnrkc putjeUensia Johnson, Proc. Bos. Soc. X:it. Hist., XXIX, 19()1, pp. 

 :i97, 3'JS. 



This species was taken only in the region of tiie type locality and 

 proljably docs n<»t extend much farther northward. 



Xanaimo jiay, N'ancouvcr Island, H. C, taken from a starfish (Tia'dia) 

 brought up on a fish line; (Quarantine Rock, near Port Townsend. 

 Wa.s|iington; Station 4218, Admiralty Inlet, near i'ort Townsend, 

 \\':i.^hinL'ton. 1(5 fathoms, soft green nuid, on starfish (Tuidia). 



NEPHTHYDID^. 

 Nephthys caeca (Fabriciua) Oersted. 



.\'<f)hlli>/s cacd, Ehlcrs, Die IJorstfiiwnrnuT, ISGS, pp. .WS-liiy. 



The presence of this circumpolar species throughout a great extent 

 of both sides of the North Paciiic is already well known. Tyj)ical 

 examples occur in the collections from the following stations: t'J.'JO, 

 vicinity of Xaha Bay, JJehm Canal, soutjiejustern Ala.'^ka, lOS 240 

 fathoms, rocky; 4236, vicinity of Yes Bay, Behm Canal, 147-205 

 fathom-^, rocks and coai-se sand; 42 tO, junction of Clarence Strait and 

 Behm Canal, 218-250 fathojus, coral. 

 Hephthya cllUU (Mailer) luthke. 



Scjtiilhiia ciludn, .MalrnKron, ()I'v»t.h. Kgl. VL't.-.\kml. Kuril., isd.'j, p. 10 I. 



Whether or n<it Wiren wa-s correct in considering this and the pre- 




342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEAQ' OF [JlinC, 



ceding to be variants of the same species, the considerable amount of 

 material ^^■hich I have examined exhibits no evidence of intergrada- 

 tion and the two forms are therefore listed separately. It is notcwortliy 

 that they were taken on bottoms of quite different character. 



Stations 4194, HaUbut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, 111-170 fathoms, 

 soft green mud; 4197, same region, 31-90 fathoms, sticky green mud 

 and fine sand ; 4244, Kasaan Bay, Prince of Wales Island, southeastern 

 Alaska, 59-54 fathoms, green mud ; 4258, vicinity of Funter Bay, 

 Lynn Canal, 300-313 fathoms, mud; 42S6, Chinak Bay, Alaska, 57-63 

 fathoms, green mud and rock. 



Nephthys malmgreni Theel. 



Xep}dhi/s loH'jiselosa Malmgren, Kgl. Vct.-Akad. Forh., 1865, p. 106; non 



Oersted. 

 Nephihrjs ynalmgreni Thocl, Kgl. Sv. Vet. Akad. Handl., 1879, No. 3, p. 26. 



Although recorded at various points in the North Atlantic and Arctic 

 Oceans this species has not previously been taken in the Pacific. It 

 occurs in the collections from the vicinity of Yes Bay, Behm Canal, 

 only, at Stations 4236, 147-205 fathoms, rock and coarse sand, and 

 423S, 229-231 fathoms, rocks and mud. 



Nephthys assimilis Malmgren. 



Nephthys assimilis Malmgren, Kgl. Vet.-Akad. Forh., 1865, p. 105. 



No representatives of A^. assimilis occur among the material dredged 

 by the Albatross, but the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia contains several examples which agree exactly with the 

 descriptions given by Malmgren and Theel, and which were collected 

 by Dr. Benjamin Sharp in 5 fathoms at Icy Cape, Alaska. 



NEREID..E. 



Nereis pelagioa Litmipus. 



Nereis pelajiai Linn.-pus, Sys. Nat., Ed. X, p. 654. 



Although quite common anrl represented from nearly tiic entire 

 region covered by tiiese collections, the individuals are of smaller size 

 than occur on the Atlantic side of the continent. 



Statioas 4193, Halibut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, B. C, 18-23 fathoms, 

 green mud and fine sand ; 1209, Admiralty Inlet, vicinity of Port Town- 

 send, Washington; 4217, Kasaan Bay, Prince of Wales Island, south- 

 eastern Alaska, 89-114 fathoms, green mud, fine sand and broken 

 Hhells; 4253, Stc|)liens pjissajje, Alaska, 131-188 fathoms, rocks and 

 broken shells; 4274, Alitak Bay, Kadiak Island, 35-41 fathoms, green 

 mud and fine sand. At Port McArthur, on August 23, two small 

 heteronereids were taken at the surface. Also collection of Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila,, several collected at Unalaska by Dr. Sharp. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 343 



Nereis procera Ehlers. 



Xereis procera Ehlers, Die Borstenwurmer, 1S68, p. 557. 

 This little known species is represented by a single incomplete 

 specimen taken at the type locality in the Gulf of Georgia. Station 

 4103. Halibut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, 18-23 fathoms, green mud and 

 fine san 1. 



Nereis paucidentata Moore. 



AVrf/.s- [xiucidentata Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 1903, pp. 130, 431, 

 PI. XXIV, figs. 28-30. 



Originally de.<^cribed from .specimens dredged in Bering Sea, the 

 present collections show that this species is rather widely distributed 

 along the northern portions of the east side of the Pacific also. At the 

 same time they permit of tiie verification of the characters originally 

 attributed to the species. Several specimens witli the probosces pro- 

 truded exhibit paragnaths exactly like those of the type, except that 

 groups III and I\' vary somewhat, being provided with 3 to 5 denticles 

 arrange 1 in various patterns. One had 5 teeth arrangetl in a jicrfect 

 ({uincinix. The basal ring of one specimen bears 4 cones at VII. 



Stations 4108. Halibut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, B. C, 157-230 fathoms, 

 soft green mud; 4228, vicinity of Xaha Jiay, Bciim Canal, southeastern 

 Alaska, 41-134 fathoms, gravel and sponge; 4239, junction of Clarence 

 8trait aii<l Bchm Canal. 200-248 fathoms, coarse sand and rocks, one 

 specimen from this station is a large female bursting with eggs, 80 nmi. 

 long and having 120 segments; 4253, Stephens Passage, Alaska, 131- 

 188 fathoms, rocks and broken shells; 4300. olT Sliakan. Sumner Strait, 

 .southeastern Alaska, 185-21 S fatlioms, rock aii<l mud. 



Nertis oyolarus lIurrinKton. 



Nereis cyclurua Harrington, Tran.**. N. Y. Acad. Sci., XVI, 1S97, p. 214. 

 This remarkable and interesting species should probaiily be separate<l 

 generically from tiie above. In only one case is it state*! that the 

 specimens were taken from a hermit cral) {E. iijuKjurus armolus), in the 

 shell of which this annelid usually lives as a commensal. The finding 

 of a male heteronereis is of interest, (^specially as it wa-< taken on the 

 shell of a hermit crab. After an elal)orate study of this species Har- 

 rington records his failure t(> find a male, and states his i)elief that males 

 are strictly pelagic in habit. 



Stations 4201, (^ueen Charlotte Sound, off l-'ort Hupert, Vancouver 

 Islanrj, B. C, 138-1 15 fathoms, soft green mud, sand and broken .shells, 

 a small specimen. " genera! color l)right pink, indelicate tube C()mpose<l 

 of mucu-s attadie*! to sponge"; 4218, Admiralty Inlet, vicinity of Port 

 Town-Hend, Washington, 10 fatlioms. soft green mud, 1 ordinary form 




344 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June^ 



and 1 heteronereis (male) from shell of hermit crab; 4220, same region 

 16-31 fathoms, green mud, sand and broken shells. 



Kereis (Alitta) vezillosa Grube. 



AVrf i,< vexillnsa Grube in Middendorff, Reise in Siberiens, etc., II, 1S51, p. 4. 

 Nereis vexillosa, Johnson, Proc. Bos. Soc. Nat. Hist., XXIX, p. 399. 



On the Pacific this species represents the Nereis limhota, so abundant 

 along much of the Atlantic coast of North America. It, however, 

 reaches a larger size. As but little shore collecting was done it is not 

 represented in the collection from many points. 



Taylor Bay, Gabriola Island, Gulf of Georgia; Quarantine Rock, 

 Port Townsend, and the beach near Shakan, Sumner Strait, south- 

 eastern Alaska; collection Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., Admiralty Inlet, 

 Puget Sound, Washington, by George Dawson. 



Nereis (Alitta) virens Sars. 



Nereis rirens, Johnson, Proc. Bos. Soc. Xat. Hist., XXIX, p. 398. 



I have not given verj- close attention to the specific likeness or dis- 

 tinction of the Atlantic A^. virens and the Pacific A'^. hrandti, but so far 

 as comparisons have been made they appear to confirm Johnson's view 

 that the two are identical. Being chiefly a shore lover like'the last it is 

 not well represented in this collection. 



Taylor Bay, Gabriola Island, B. C, 11 specimens varying from 9 to 

 18 inches long. Many are in regeneration posteriorly and the number 

 of segments appear to exceed the average attainal by Atlantic speci- 

 meas. Union Bay, Alaska, a splended example imfortunatcly incom- 

 plete, but which in life must have exceeded 2 feet in length. The ten- 

 tacular cirri are ver\' short and thick. Also one in the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences, collectcnl Ijy George Dawson at Admiralty Inlet, 

 Washington. 



Platynereia agasiizi (Khleri.). 



NcrciM agaHsizi Ehlerx, Die Borstenwiimicr, 1868, p. 542. 



It seems probable that the Japanese spccimeas referred to N 

 dtimerilii by Marenzeller belong to this closely related but perfectly 

 •listinct species. A small hctcroucreid resembling that of the Atlantic 

 /-'. me(jalo]»< was i:ik< n at (Quarantine U(»ck, near I'oit Townsend, on 

 Jtmc 27. 



Kili.-ut liiirlxjr and (^narantiiio Rock, near Tort Town.^end, \N'a.sh- 

 ington. Stations 4211). Admiralty Inlet, near Port Townsend, Wash- 

 ington, 1(>-2G fathoms, green mud, sand and broken shells; 4223. Boca 

 (le Quadra, southeaHtcrn Alaska, 48-57 fathoms, soft green mud. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 345 



EUNICID^. 



Eunice kobiensis Mcintosh. 



Eunice kobiensis Mcintosh, Challenger Reports, Zool., Vol. XII, pp. 278-280. 



Several .specimens of Eunice exhil)iting considerable variation inter 

 se, but presenting a mean very close to this species originally taken off 

 the coast of Japan, were collected in Alaskan waters. The largest 

 individual is 90 mm. long ami 5 mm. wide, being therefore larger than 

 those described by Mcintosh. The maximum number of branchial 

 pinn£B exhibited by different specimens varias from 5 to 8 according to 

 the size, and the gills begin on \ or VI and end at from XLV to L\'1II. 

 The character of the seta; and acicula are very coastant and differ in 

 no respect from those assignetl to Eunice kobiensis. On the other 

 hand the jaws vary considerably anrl the large paired plates may 

 exhibit a number of teeth either greater or less than is shown in 

 Mcintosh's figure. The cephalic appendages generally average shorter 

 and the peristomium longer than on the Japanese specimens, and the 

 ventral cirri are larger than is usual in this genus. 



Stations 4235, vicinity of Ves Bay, liehm Canal, southeastern Alaska, 

 130-193 fathoms, gray mud; 4253, Stephens Passage, Alaska, 131-188 

 fathoms, rock and broken shells; 4272, Afognak Hay, Afognak Island, 

 12-17 fathoms, sticky mud; 4274, Alitak Bay, Kadiak Islajid, 35-41 

 fathoms, green mud and fine sand ; 4289, Uy ak Bay, Kadiak Island, 

 74-80 fathoms, gray mud. The last recorded specimen is stated to 

 have come from a "tube 11 inches long, formed of small stones and 

 attached to a slab of slate." 



ONUPHID^E. 

 Kothria iridescens JohnBon. 



Siilhriii ir'ulexceiui io\\\\no\\, I'rof. Bos. Soc. Nut. Hist., XXIX, p. lUS. 



This species was originally described by Johnson from a single 

 specimen lacking the caudal end which was drcMlged by Prof. Herd- 

 man at \'ictoria, B. C. It proves to be abundant on muddy jjottoms 

 in the Gulf of Georgia and much less common northwartl to Prince of 

 Wales Island, southeastern Alaska. The presence of a posterior end 

 permits the completion of Johason's description. After gradual 

 rwluction in length the branchia) are totally wanting from tlie last 30 

 Homit(^. The pygidium is provide<| with a thickj'ne<l circumanal welt, 

 from the ventral side of which arise 4 cirri in a close tuft The 2 

 median are about \ longer than the lateral pair and correspondingly 

 stouter. Besides hoode<l erochets (of which Johnson's figure shows 

 one forcshortenetl) and capillary seUe, posterior segments contain a 




346 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [JuilC, 



tuft of the usual expanded pectinate seta?. All throp kinds continue 

 to the last setigerous se<rnicnt. 



A large number of tubes differ from the one described by Johnson. 

 They are 5 to 6 inches long and about 4 mm. in diameter, composed of a 

 tough, membranous, mucoid lining covered with a thick coating of 

 silt, often arranged in two distinct layei^s of quite different composition. 



Stations 4192, Gulf of Georgia, off Nanaimo, Vancouver Island, B. C, 

 89-97 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 4193, Halibut Bank, Gulf of 

 Georgia, 18-23 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 4194, same region, 

 111-170 fathoms, soft greeri mud, a great many tubes; 4197, same 

 region, 31-90 fathoms, sticky green mud and fine sand; 419S, same 

 region, 157-230 fathoms, soft green mud; 4223, Boca de Quadra, 

 southeastern Alaska, 48-57 fathoms, soft green mud; 4244, Kasaan 

 Bay, Prince of Wales Island. 50-54 fathoms, green mud; 42 6, same 

 region. 101-123 fathoms, gray-green mud, coai'se sand and sholls. 



Nothria geophiliformis Moore. 



Xothria geophiliformis Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 190.'?, pp. 445- 

 44S. 



A single example from Station 4244, Kasaan Bay, Prince of Wales 

 Island, 50-54 fathoms, green mud. 



LUMBRINERID^. 



Lambrineris heteropoda Marenzeller. 



Lumbriconercis heteropoda Marenzeller, Denk.s. Kaiserl. Akad. AN'issensch. 

 Wien, 1879, Abth. 2, pp. 138, 139. 



A species of Lumhrincris widely and generally distriljutcil over the 

 field covered by th&se explorations is assigned with much hesitation as 

 above. The variability of the jaws and the form of the prostomium 

 in species of this genus, taken with the fact that the exact region from 

 which the paraj)odia described or figured for many s])ecies have been 

 selectefl is often not indicated, renders identification of representatives 

 of this genus very difncult. The smaller examples resemijle L. hetero- 

 poda in ever}' respect, l)nt the larger ones have tiie prostomium shorter 

 and more broa<lly rounded ; the jaws vary in respect to the form and 

 number of teeth on the individual plates and probably in a greater 

 divergence of the lobe.s of the posterior parapotlia. The i)resc'nce of a 

 tuft of very long slender winged seta; in the lower part of the supra- 

 acicvilar tuft of the middle i)arapodia r)f some specimens is also a note- 

 worthy character which may indicate specific separation from L. 

 heteropoda. One fine example from Station 4251 is 380 nun. long, 7 

 mm. wide, and has 365 segment.*. It is filled with nearly mature eggs. 




1908.] NATTRAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 347 



Stations 4201, Queen Charlotte Sound, off Fort Rupert, "\'ancouver 

 Island, B. C, 138-1-15 fathoms, soft green mud, sand and broken shells, 

 4227, vicinity of Naha Bay, Behm Canal, southeastern Ala.ska, 62-65 

 fathoms, dark green mud and fine sand; 4235, vicinity of Yes Bay, 

 Behm Canal, 130-193 fathoms, gray mud; 4230, same region, 147-205 

 fathoms, rocks and coaree sand; 4237, same region, 192-198 fathoms, 

 green mud ; 4240, junction of Clarence Strait and Behm Canal, 248-256 

 fathoms, coral ; 4241, same region, 245-238 fathoms, green mud ; 

 4251,'Stepheas' Passage, Alaska, 198 fathoms, rocky;" 4252, same 

 region, 198-201 fathoms, gray mud ; 4274, Alitak Bay, Kadiak Island, 

 35-41 fathoms, green mud and fine sand. Also a doui:)tful specimen 

 in the Academy of Natural Sciences, collected by Dr. Benjamin Sharp 

 at Icy Cape, Alaska. 



Sinoe simpla Muore. 



.\itu>r fiimpla Mooro, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 190.5, pp. .547-519 PI. 

 XXXV, fig. 30; XXXVI, figs. 39-14. 



This very distinct species resembles N. nigripcs \'orrill in general 

 appearance, but differs widely from that and other species in having 

 the gills simple instead of palmate and in the presence of a small 

 median tubercle on the prostomium. 



It was taken at Stations 4235, 4236 and 4238, in the vicinity of Yes 

 Bay, Behm Canal, Alaska, in 130-231 fathoms, on muddy bottoms. 



STAURONEREIDuE. 



Staoronereis annulatas Moore. 



Stnuronrrrix anniilnliiH Moore, Prop. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 190r), pp. 22.5-227, 

 PI. X, figs. 12, 13; Xr, figs. 18-22. 



Taken only at Quarantine Rock, Port Townscnd, Wa^^hington, June 

 27. irK)3. 



GLYCERID^. 



Olycera nana Jolinwm. 



Glyccra nana John.son, Proc. lies. Soc. Nat. Hist., X.XIX, p. III. 



Although most of t!ic specimens of this species were taken not far 

 from the type locality in Puget Sound, two were found on the Ahi.-kan 

 l)eaches. 



StatioiLS 4193, Halibut Bank, (lulf of Georgia, B. ('., Is 23 fatiioms, 

 green mud and line .saiul; 4197, same region, 31-lKJ fathoms, sticky 

 green mud and fine sand; 4223, Bocade (iua<lra,fiouthea'<tern Alaska, 

 4H 57 fathoms, soft green mud; also beach at Port Ellis and near 

 Shakan, Sumner Strait, soutiieastern Alaska. 




348 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Glycera tesselata Grube. 



Glycera tesselata Grube, -Aj-cli. f. Xaturges., 1S63, I, p. 41. 



Two small and one large specimens (the latter a fragment measur- 

 ing 5 nmi. across) of this genus are believed to belong to this species, 

 which has not hitherto been recorded at attaining so great a size. 



Station 4197. Halibut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, B. C, 31-90 fathoms, 

 sticky green mud and fine sand. 



GONIADID^. 



Glycinde wireni Arwidsson. 



Gh/cinde wireni Arwidsson, Bergens Museums Aarbog, 1899, Xo. 11, pp. 53, 

 54. 



This species, taken during the voyage of the Vega at various points in 

 the Arctic Ocean and Bering Sea, ranges as far south as the Gulf of 

 Georgia. 



Stations 4192, Gulf of Georgia, off Nanaimo, Vancouver Island, B. C, 

 89-97 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 4194, Gulf of Georgia, Hali- 

 but Bank, 111-170 fathoms, sticky green mud; 4197, same region, 

 31-90 fathoms, sticky green mud and fine sand; 4223, Boca de Quadra, 

 southeastern Ala.ska, 48-57 fathoms, soft green mud; 4231, vicinity 

 of Naha Bay, Behm Canal, southeastern Alaska, 82-113 fathoms, 

 green mud and slate fragments; 4235, vicinity of Yes Bay, Behm Canal, 

 1.30-193 fathoms, gray mud. The last specimen is a ripe male, dis- 

 tondoil with sperm. 



Ooniada annalata Moore. 



Goniadn nnnnlatn Moore, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 1905, pp. 549-5.53, PI. 

 XXXVI, figs. 4.5-4S. 



Most of the specimens are mature and have the posterior region 

 distende<l with eggs or sj^ei'm. There is a distinct tendency to increase 

 in size in correspondence with the location of the station from south 

 northward. The species is quite common from Halibut Bank, in the 

 Gulf of Georgia, northward to Chatham Strait. Stations 4197, Halibut 

 liank. Gulf of Georgia, Ji. C, 31-90 fathoms, sticky green nuid and 

 fine sand; 4198, same region, 157-2.30 fathoms, soft green mud; 42.35, 

 vicinity of Yes liay. Behm Canal, 1.30-193 fathoms, gray mud; 4237, 

 same region, 192-198 fathoms, green nnid; 4238, same region, 229-231 

 fathoms, mud and rocks; 4258, vicinity of Funter Bay, Lynn Canal, 

 3(K)-313 fathoms, mud; 4204, off I'reshwater Bay, Chatham Strait, 

 2S2-293 fathoms, green mud. 



AMPHARETID^. 

 Ampharet« arotioa MnlmKren. 



Amphfirrtr (irrlira Mulmgren, Kgl. Vct.-Akml. I'Y)rli., lRfl5, p. .304. 



Wiren ha.s alr(!a<ly recorded this species from Bering Sea. Other- 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 349 



wise it is unknown from the Pacific region. Except that their paleoli 

 have more produced pointi> than Mahngren figures, these specimens 

 agree exactly with his account. A portion of a tube is 6.5 nun. in 

 diameter, with a himen of 4 mm. and ver\' fragile walls of fine silt. 



Stations 4225, Boca de Quadra, southeastern Alaska, 149-181 

 fathoms, dark green mud; 4258, vicinity of Funter Bay, Lynn Canal, 

 300-313 fathoms, mud. 



Amphioteis alaskensis Moore. 



Ampfiirfei.i alaskensis Moore, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 1905, pp. 846-849, 

 ri. XL1\', figs. 1-4. 



Taken at Stations 4274, Alitak Bay, at a depth of 35-41 fathoms 

 on a bottom of green mud with some fine sand, and 4223, Boca de 

 Quadra, southeastern Alaska, 48-57 fathoms, soft green nmd. 



Amphioteis glabra Moore. 



Anipliicteis glabra Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, pp. 849-851, 

 PI. XLIV, figs. 5-S. 



A small portion of a tube is peculiarly elastic and springy and is 

 covered with a layer of brownish fiocculent sediment. 



Station 4227, Behm Canal, in the vicinity of Xaha Bay, 62 fathoms, 

 bottom of dark green mud and fine sand. 



Amphioteis acaphobranohiata Moore. 



Amphicleis scaphobranchiata Moore, Proc. .\cad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 1906, pp. 

 25.5-257, PI. XII, figs. 54-61. 



Taken at the type locality only, Station 4201, off Fort Rupert, 

 Vancouver, in Queen Charlotte Sound, 138-145 fathoms, soft green 

 mud, sand and Ijroken shells. 



If elinna dentioalaia Moore. 



Mrlinna dentinilala Mooro, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 1905, p. 859, PI. 



XMV, figs. 9 and 10. 

 Melinna crixtata .Moore, id., pp. 851-853. 



The original description of this species was inadvertently jilaced 

 under the name of M. cristata, which, as is well known, has already 

 been emplovo<l by Sare. The name dcnticulatn was, however, correctly 

 u.seti in the description of the figures on page 857. 



The type and only specimen was taken at Station 425S, in tho 

 vicinity of Funter Bay, Lynn Canal, on a bottom of nuid. 300-313 

 fatliotn.H. 



Melinna oritUta (Sara) Malmgren. 



Melinna crisiata Malmgren, Ofvers. Kgl.-Vet. Akad. FOrh., 1865, p. 371. 

 Two well-prc«crv<Hl Rpecimens in their thick-wallcHl mud tul)C8 

 represent thi.s .'^iwcies. They were both dreilged at Boca de (Quadra, 

 2.3 




350 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



southeastern .\laska, at Stations 4224 and 4225, 149-lSS fathoms, 

 dark green mud. 



Samytha biooulata Moore. 



Samytha bioculata Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1906. pp. 253-255, 

 Pl.XLIV, figs. 11-13. 



The upper, thickened portion of the mud tube is strengthened by 

 large numbers of sihceous sponge spicules. 



Two specimens were taken at Station 4197, Gulf of Georgia, 31-90 

 fathoms, sticky green mud and fine sand, 



TEREBBLLID^. 



Amphitrite robasta Johnson. 



Amphitrite robusta Johnson, Proc. Bos. Soc. Xat. Hist., XXIX, pp. 425, 426. 



This species appears to be quite abundant in the Gulf of Georgia and 

 as far north as Naha Bay, Behm Canal, It reaches a larger size than 

 is indicated by Johnson, sometimes exceeding 140 mm. in length and 

 18 nmi. in diameter, the greatest nimiber of segments being 83. The 

 divisions of the branchiae are often longer than figured by Johnson, 

 whose figure of the uncinus also is somewhat foreshortened. The 

 number of setigerous somites is constantly 17, as stated bj- Johnson. 

 Some of the specimens bear short cirri or papillae beneath the setae of 

 some of the anterior segments. This is probably a secondary sex 

 character, but this could not be ascertained with certainty. 



Stations 4193, Halibut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, B. C, 18-23 fathoms, 

 green mud and fine sand; 4194, same region, 111-170 fathoms, soft 

 green mud; 4107, same region, 31-90 fathoms, sticky green mud and 

 fine sand; 4198, 157-280 fathoms, soft green mud; 4228, vicinity of 

 Naha Bay Behm Canal, 41-134 fathoms, gravel and sponge. 

 Amphitrite radiata nom. nov. 



Amphilrilc jxilmata Monro, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 190.'), pp. 858, 859, 

 PI. XLIV, fipH. 19-22; not .1 . jxilmata Mahufrrvu, l.S()5. 



Statioas 4227, Naha Bay, Jiehm Caiiui, (52-05 fathoms, dark green 

 mud and fine sand; 4245 (type locality), Kasaan U&y, Prince of Wales 

 Island, 95-98 fathoms, dark green mud with fragments of shell, rock 

 and sand; 4253, Stephens Pjussage, 131-188 fathoms, rock and broken 

 shells. 



Lanioe heterobranohia .Uihnmm. 



hniirr }trt(rohriiurliia Johnfoti, Proc. lio.s. Soc. Nat. Hist., XXIX, p. 127. 



The original deBcription is Ijased upon a single specimen which was 

 stated to have no eyes. All of i^cveral specimens in the i)resent collec- 

 tion i)ossess very numerous deep brown eyas arranged in a compact 




1908.] NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361 



narrow band on each side, with a doi-sal interval equal to the inter- 

 branchial space and a longer ventral interval. The.se eyes are ordi- 

 narily conceale<l by the inrolled margin of the prostomial fold. The 

 inequality of the gills seems to be a constant character and the number 

 of setigerous segments is 17, as stated by Johnson, Part of a tube is 

 covered with small pebbles, sea-urchin spines, bits of eel grass, etc. 



None of the specimens was found near the type locality in Puget 

 Sound, but all in Alaskan waters at the following stations: 4228, 

 vicinity of Xaha Bay, Behm Canal, southeastern Alaska. 41-134 

 fathoms, gravel and sponge; 4259, Dundas Bay, Icy Strait, 21-78 

 fathoms, gray sand, broken shell and rock; 4283 Chignik Bay, 30-41 

 fathoms, black sand and brown sponge; 4289, Vyak Bay, Kadiak 

 Island, 74-80 fathoms, gray mud. 



Fista cristata (Mailer) .MulmKren. 



ri.'<ln cristala .Maliiigren, Of vers. Konnl. ^'ct.-.\kac^. F6rh., 1865, pp. 382, 383. 



The single example of Pista referred to this species agrees with those 

 dre<lged by the Albatross off the coast of Japan, and diflfei's from P. 

 cristnta as described by European authors in having the upper free 

 angle of the lateral subbranchial membrane of IV much more produced 

 and jjrominent, quite cfjualling that of III. Othenvise they agree, so 

 far as can be asccrtaine<l, in all features. The handles of the uncini on 

 V are longer than the others, but there is no other difiference. 



Station 4225. lioca de (Quadra, southeastern Alaska, HO-lSl 



fatlioms, dark green mud. 



^Pista faiciata (Grube) Marenceller. 



Pista fasrinta MarcMizelliT, Denies. Kui.s. Akad. Wissensfh., ISS.), Al)tli. 2, 

 pp. 202-201. 



Ojncerning the reference of the fine species of Pista found at several 

 stations in southeastern Ala^^ka to the above named, I am in much 

 doubt, (jrubc's description of Tcrvhclla fasciat'i is not sufliciently 

 precise for certain determination, but the excellent accounts and 

 figures given by MarenzoUer and Mcintosh seem to me to refer to 

 diflerent specie.-;. In any e\ent the figure of the branchi;c given by 

 the latter would not answer for these specimens, as the tenninal twigs 

 are nuich more sprea<ling and uneven. AI)out 3 or 4 main branches 

 spring from the trunk, and these immediately branch and rebranch 

 asymmetrically i^ or 10 times, the main stem being always recognizable, 

 hut landing at each point of branching and tapering continu«)Usly to 

 the end. I'sually 3 gills are well <level(ipe<|, and 1 is either very 

 small and entirely without l>ranches or may Ik? altogether wanting. 

 Which arc well developed apjx-ars to be fjuite acridental. They may 




352 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



be the two of a pair, or the two of one side, or the left of one and right of 

 the other pair. 



All of tlie specimens exhibit the great flaring wings so well shown in 

 Mcintosh's figure, and there is a distinct postbranchial fold across the 

 dorsum of IV. The cirri above and behind the setae bundles of VI and 

 VII are well developed. In respect to most of their characters the 

 imcini resemble Mcintosh's figure closer than those given by Maren- 

 zeller, but the former fails to show the guard. 



Although none of the specimens is complete, upwards of 100 seg- 

 ments are present, and even incomplete examples measure 160 mm. 

 long and 6 mm. -wide across the thorax, being therefore much larger 

 than Mareuzeller's specimen. The tube has a thick wall composed of 

 fine silt. The one from Station 4246 is filled with eggs. 



Stations 4225, Boca de Quadra, southeastern Alaska, 149-lSl 

 fathoms, dark green mud; 4229, vicinity of Naha Bay, Behm Canal, 

 198-256 fathoms, soft gray mud; 4230, same region, 108-240 fathoms, 

 rocky; 4237, vicinity of Yes Bay, Behm Canal, 192-198 fathoms, 

 green mud; 4246, Kasaan Bay, Prince of Wales Island, 101-123 

 fathoms, gray-green mud, coarse sand and shells. 



Lsena nnda Moore. 



Leena nuda Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 1905, pp. 855, 856, PI. 

 XLIV, figs. 14, 15. 



Known only from the type specimen, a female filletl with eggs and 

 preserved in a soft mucous tube coated with a tliin layer of foreign 

 materials. It was taken at Station 4279, Kadiak Island, 29 fathoms, 

 dark gray mud. 



Tbelepas hamatas Moore. 



Thelrpu.H hmnalus Moore, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 1905, pp. 856-858, 

 PI. XLIV, figs. 16-18. 



The type comes from Station 4235, Yes Bay, Behm Canal, 130-193 

 fathoms, green mud, and a second poorly preserved specimen from 

 Station 4227. Xaha Bay, Behm Canal, 62-65 fathoms, dark green mud 

 and fine sand. 



Ataoama oonifera Moorp. 



Alarnma ronijern Moore, Proc. .\cad, Xat. Sci. Phila., 1905, pp. 853-855, 

 I'l.XLIV.figM. 11-13. 



Type from Station 4194, Gulf of Georgia, 111-170 fathoms, bottom 

 of soft green mud. A second specimen comes from an unknown 

 station. 



Terabellidei itraemi Sam. 



TerehellideH stramii .Sars, itc.skrivcl.str og lagthagolser, etc., IH^'), p. 48. 



The i^roper discrimination of the species of Tcrcbdlidcs is still a 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 353 



desideratum. While in their more obvious character the species are 

 very constant, in respect to others they vary greatly. The repre- 

 sentatives of the genas found in this collection are in most respects 

 indistinguishable from the widely distributed T. strctmii a.s described by 

 European writers. On the other hand the traasitional setie of somite 

 VIII and the abdominal uncini present slight but quite obvious differ- 

 ences at nearly every station. It seems probable that this species as 

 usually recognized includes a large number of subspecies. 



The bent set® of \'III vary in the length and shape of the bent limb. 

 The uncini usually have 5 teeth in the series above and surrounding the 

 beak; surmounting these is a second row of 3 smaller teeth, and crown- 

 ing all a single still smaller median tooth. The latter varies in size and 

 in distinctness from the median tooth of the row below, with which it is 

 more or less coalesced ; it may even be wanting entirely. The most 

 distinct form occurs on a large example from Station 4247, in which 

 all of the abdominal uncini examined have the median teeth of the 

 second and third rows completely C()alesce<l and that of the first 

 row altogether absent, leaving a gap. The result is that the beak and 

 one nearly equally large tooth occupy the middle line and a large tooth 

 flanked by a smaller one Hes on each side of the gap. Most of the 

 specimens are fille<l with eggs or sperm. 



Stations 4223, Boca de Quadra, southeastern Alaska, 48-57 fathoms, 

 soft green mud; 4244, Kasaan Bay, Prince of Wales Island, 50-54 

 fathoiiLS, green mud; 4247, same region, 89-114 fathoms, green mud, 

 fine sand, broken shells ; 4281 , Chignik Bay, 42-43 fathoms, green mud. 



Polycirrus »p. 



An uiideterinined specie^s of Pobjcirrus was taken at Kilisut Harbor. 



AMPHICTENID^. 

 Feotioaria aariooma (Muller). 



.\mphictene auriconui Malmgren, Ofvere. Kongl. V'et;-.\kad. F(irh., 1866, pp. 

 3o7, .iHH. 



All of the Amphictenida? in the collection belong to one species which 

 is dearly distinct from any of those hitherto recorded in the Pacific. 

 While closely resembling P. ai(riconia in nearly every respect, there are 

 .soino points of distinction Ijctweoii these and l'^uro|)ean e\ami)lc3 

 which may require their eventual specific or sulx'^pecific separation. 

 The margin of the cephalic membrane is more obscurely and nuich 

 moH! irregularly dentate; tiie uncini usually have 5 large teelii,and tiio 

 scriefi of fine teeth on the inferior process is not continuc<l on to the 

 upper part of the process beneath the lower large tooth; the scapha 




364 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [JunC, 



hooks are never as completely circular at the end as figured for Euro- 

 pean specimens. The paleoli are always 12. In the smaller specimens 

 they have rather long slender tips which wear away, leaving the ends 

 blunt or, in the case of the lateral ones, somewhat pointed. 



Stations 4102, Oulf of Georgia, off Xanaimo, Vancouver, B. C, 89-97 

 fathoms, green mud and fine sand ; 4235, vicinity of Yes Bay, Behm 

 Canal, southeastern Alaska, 130-193 fathoms, gray nuid ; 4244, Kasaan 

 Bay, Prince of Wales Island, 50-54 fathoms, green mud; 42S6. Chignik 

 Bay, 57-63 fathoms, green nuid and rocks. 



CAPITELLID^. 



Hotomastuo giganteas Moure. 



Notomnslus gigarUeus Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat, Sci. Phila., 1906, pp. 227, 228, 

 PI. X, figs. 24, 25. 



The type locality is Station 4264, off Freshwater Bay, in Chatham 

 Strait. 2S2-203 fathoms, green mud; a larger l)ut inconiplete cotype 

 was taken at Station 4197, Clulf of Georgia, 31-90 fathoms, sticky green 

 mud and fine sand. 



OPHELIID^. 

 Ammotrypane aulogaster Rathke. 



Amitiutri/fMiiie aulogaster Rathke, Xov. Act. Acad. Cses. Lcop.-Car. Nat. 

 Cur., "(1843), XX, pp. 188-190. 



A single individual 27 mm. long and consisting of 49 segments was 



taken at Station 4235, vicinity of Yes Bay, Behm Canal, 130-193 



fathoms, gray mud. 



Ammotrjpane brevis Muore. 



AmmntrijjxiHr hrevis Moore, Proc. Acad. \ut. Sci. Phila., I'JUG, pp. 3.'J4, 

 35.5, text fig. 



The single example on which this species is based is distinguished 

 from the j)receding in' having the prostomium somewhat depn^sseil 

 <lorso-ventrally instead of compressetl laterally, l>y the small number 

 (29) of setigerous somites, and by having the large spoon-shaped anal 

 lobe represented by a slender process only. The type, a female filled 

 with eggs, is No. 284 of the collection of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, and was collected by Dr. I'enjamin Sharp at 

 Icy Cape, Alaska. 



TravitU forbetii Jc^hnKion. 



Trnrisin forlH-nii Johnston, Ann. .Nat. Hi-st.. TV, (1810), p. 373. 

 Already recordcil from Bering Sea by both Wiren and Marenzeller, 

 this 8pe<;iea would be expected to occur on the coast of Alaska. While 

 none were taken by the Albatross naturalists, there are six specimens in 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 355 



the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences, taken by Dr. Sharp 

 at Icy Cape. They varj'^ from 25 to 40 mm. in length and one has the 

 posterior end regenerating. This species is easily distinguished from 

 the next by having smooth seta3, ^\hereas in T. pupa they are hispid 

 anil also somewiiat stouter. 



Travisia pupa Moore. 



Transia pupa Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1906, pp. 22S-231, PI. 

 XI, fig. 23. 



This is an abundant worm, conspicuous from its large size and wide- 

 spread on muddy bottoms. Specimens were taken at the following 

 stations : 4192, Gulf of Georgia, 18-23 fathoms, green mud and 

 fine sand; 4194, Gulf of Georgia (type locality), 111-170 fathoms, 

 soft green mud; 4197, Gulf of Georgia, 31-90 fathoms, sticky green 

 mud and fine sand ; 4230, liehm Canal, 108-240 fathoms, rocky; 

 4235, liehm Canal, 130-193 fathoms, gray mud; 4237, Behm Canal, 

 192 fathoms, green mud; 4246 Ka.'^aan Bay, Prince of Wales Island, 

 101-123 fathoms, gray and green mud, coaree sand and shells. 



MALDANID^. 

 Maldane earsi Malmgren. 



Miil'laiie Sarsi Malingren, Ofvers. Kgl. Vet.-Akad. Forh., 186.5, p. 188. 



Mcintosh and the writer have already recorded this species as occur- 

 ring in the Pacific off Japan and Wiren in Bering Sea. The posterior 

 capillary setio have the hairs arrange<l not in opposite pairs, but 

 spirally. 



Stations 4224, Boca de Quadra, southeastern Alaska, 156-166 

 fathonts, dark green nuid; 4264, off Freshwater Bay, Chatiiam Strait, 

 282-293 fathoms, green nuid ; 4286, Chignik Bay, 57-63 fathoms, green 

 nmd and rocks. The specimen last listt^l Is a piece of the posterior end, 

 including the pygidium, of a very large individual 3 mm. in diameter. 



Kaldane similis Mooro. 



Mnl.lanc simili'< Moore, Proc. Acad. \at. Sci. Pl.ilu., l<.»()f), pj). 233-236, PI. 

 XI, figs. 26-30. 



The type and one other specimen were taken at Station 4264, off 

 Freshwater Bay, Chatham Strait, 282-293 fathoms, green nuui. 



Maldanella robucta M<><>rc. 



Miildmulla robunta .Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1906, 236-239, PI. 

 XI, Hrh. 31, 32. 



Specimens of .U. rnlnistn were taken at Stations 4197, Gulf of Georgia* 

 31-90 fathoms, sticky green nmd and fine sand ; 4230, Behm Canal, 

 108-240 fathoms, rocky battom; and 4246 (type locality), 101-123 

 fathom.s, green nmd with coarse sand and shell fragments. 




356 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Lnmbriolymene pacifica Moore. 



Lumbrichfmeiie pacifica Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., pp. 246-248, 

 PI. Xli, figs. 40-42. 



Two complete worms and a fragment, together with four or five tubes, 



were taken at Station 4264, off Freshwater Bay, Chatham Strait, 282- 



293 fathoms, green mud; and a caudal end at Station 4199, Queen 



Charlotte Sound, off Fort Rupert, Vancouver, B. C, 6S-107 fathoms, 



soft green mud and volcanic sand. 



Clymenella tentacalata Moore. 



CUnnenella tentoculata Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., pp. 239-242, PI. 

 XI, figs. 33-35. 



Known only from two fragments taken at Station 4264, off Fresh- 

 water Bay, Chatham Strait, July 25, 282-293 fathoms, green mud. 



Hioomache carinata Moore. 



Nicomache carinata Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1906, pp. 242-246, 

 Pis. XI, figs. 36-39; XII, figs. 43, 44. 



Fragments of this species occur in the collections from the Gulf of 

 Georgia, Station 4197, 31-100 fathoms, sticky green mud and fine 

 sand ; and Station 4198, 157-230 fathoms, soft green mud. The 

 type locahty is Station 4227, in the vicinity of Naha Bay, Behm Canal, 

 62-65 fathoms, dark green mud and fine sand. 



SOALIBREGMID^. 



Soalibregma inflatnin Rathke. 



Scalihregmn inflatum Rathke, Nov. Act. Acad. Ca?s. Leop.-Car. Nat. Cur., 

 XX, (1843), p. 184. 



Two spccimeas, each about 32 mm. long and having 57 segments, 

 seom to be quite typical in eveiy respect. 



Stations 4223, Boca de Quadra, 48-57 fathoms, soft green nuid, and 

 4272, Afognak Bay, Afognak Island, Alaska, 12-17 fathoms, sticky 

 mud. 



CHLORH^MID^. 

 Trophonia papillata Johnson. 



Trophonia papillata Jolinson, Proc. Bos. See. Nat. Hist., XXIX, p. 416. 



Silt has a<lhere<l to the liases of the cutaneous papilla? to such an 

 extent that they appear inaMnnilliform, and until tiiey were examined 

 under the microscope it was supposed that an entirely new species was 

 in hand. 



Stations 4192, Gulf of Georgia, off Nanaimo, Vancouver Island, B. ('., 

 89-97 fathom.s, green mud and fine sand ; 4272, Afognak Bay, Afognak 

 Island, Alaska, 12-17 fathoms, sticky mud. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 357 



Brada yillosa (Rathke) Malmgren. 



Siphonosloma villofmrn Rathke, Nov. Act. Acad. Caps. Leop.-Car. Nat. Cvir., 

 XX (1843), p. 218. 



No gocxl figures of the setfe of this species ha\'e been found and the 

 identification is based on the characters of the papilke, tentacles, etc. 

 Most of the specimens have the head extended. The number of seg- 

 ments is usually about 30, thus exceeding the number shown in Rathke's 

 figure. The surface is coated with mucous, which becomes hard and to 

 which sand grains adhere, producing a gritty surface, especially on the 

 bases of the papillae. Marenzeller records the occurrence of this species 

 in Bering Sea. 



Stations 4223, Boca de Quadra, 48-57 fathoms, soft green mutl ; 

 4272, Afognak Bay, Afognak Island. 12-17 fathoms, sticky mud, 



Brada pilosa .Moore. 



Br,ida pilosa Moore, Proc. Acacl. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 1906, pp. 231-233, PI. X, 

 figs. 1 1-17. 



This is a rather cominon species northward. Examples occur in 

 the collections from Stations 4194, Halibut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, 

 11 1-170 fathoms; 4198, same region, 157-230 fathoms, soft green mud; 

 4251 (type locality), Stepliens Passage, 19S fathoms, rocky bottom ; 

 4235, Yes Bay, Behm Canal, 130-193 fathoms, gray mud; 4252, 

 Stephens Pas.^age, 198-201 fathoms, gray mud, and 4258, Lynn Canal, 

 300-313 fathoms, mud. 



STERNASPID^. 



Stcrnaspis scutata ' Uanzani) Otto. 



Ulerrut.spi.'i .•irulata, Marenzellor, Aim. K. K. .\at. Ilofmviscums Wieii, N , 

 (1890), p. 6. 



These specimens agree exactly with those taken by the Albatross off 

 Japan. Compare*! with typical examples of the species from the 

 M<Klit<irranean, they appear to have both the cephalic ami cauilal setic 

 more slender, and the shorter seta) of the latter region nmch less hairy. 

 This appears to be due to the hairs having been rul)l)e<l off, but may 

 possibly be a normal and constant dilTcronce. The form of the caudal 

 plate and branchial area agrees with Marenzeller's figures. 



Statioas 4235, vicinity of Yes Bay, liehm Canal, Alaska, 130-193 

 fathoms, gray nuid; 42.30, same region, 147-205 fathoms, rocks and 

 coarce sand; 4251, -Stephens Passage, 198 fathoms, rocks; 4252, san^e 

 region, 198-201 fathoms, gray nuid; 4255. Taiya Inlet, Lynn Canal, 

 247-259 fathoms, rocky. 




35S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



^Stemaspis fossor Stimpson. 



"! Stcnutspis fossor, Marcnzellcr, .Vim. K. K. Hofiiiuseunis Wien, V, (1890), 

 pp. 5-8. 



As Johnson remarks, tlie Slernaspis from the neigliborlioocl of Van- 

 couver Island agrees in all respects with s];ecimens from the Atlantic 

 Coast. Stimpson's S. affinis from Puget Sound is with little doubt to 

 be considered a synonym. It is noticeable that the lateral angles of 

 the shield plate become more prominent on examples from the more 

 southern stations. As represented in this collection this species 

 attains a considerably larjjer size than the last, some of the specimens 

 being 25 mm. long and 9 mm. in diameter. 



Stations 4192, GiJf of Georgia, off Nanaimo, Vancouver, B. C, 



89-97 fathoms, green mud and fine sand ; 4194, Halibut Bank, Gulf of 



Georgia, 111-170 fathoms, soft green mud; 4201, Queen Charlotte 



Sound, off Fort Rupert, Vancouver Island, B. C, 138-145 fathoms, 



.^oft green mud, sand, broken shells; 4218, Admiralty Inlet, vicinity 



of Port Townsend, Washington, 16 fathoms, soft green mud; 4223, 



Boca de Quadra, southeastern Alaska, 48-57 fathoms, soft green mud ; 



4233, vicinity of Yes Bay, Bohm Canal, 39-45 fathoms, soft gray mud 



and rocks; 4244, Ka.'^aan Ba}', Prince of Wales Island, 50-54 fathoms, 



green mud; 4247, same region, 89-114 fathoms, green mud, sand and 



broken shells, 



HERMELLID^. 



Sabellaria cementarium M«ore. 



SnheUnria ccnirntnriuni Moore, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Pliila., 1900, pp. 248- 

 2.5.3, PI. XII, fig.s.4.S-51. 



This fine species is j)robabl3' rather common and may possibly be 

 identical with JS. californica Fewkes, though the description of the latter 

 fails in several respects to apply to this species. This point 1 hope to 

 clear up later. The tubes, foniied of agglutinated sand grains, are 

 remarkable for their strength and hardne-ss, and are found singly or in 

 small clumps attached to stones. 



Specimens were taken at the following stations : 4220 (type), 

 Admiralty Inlet, near Port Townsend, Washington, lG-31 fathoms, 

 green mud, sand and broken shells; 42-17, Prince of Wales Island, 89- 

 114 fathom.«, green nuid with ."^and and broken shells; 4274, Kadiak 

 Island, 35-41 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 4288, Uyak Bay, 

 Katiiak Island, 67-69 fathoms, gray mud. 



SABELLID^. 

 SabelU formoia Iiu«h. 



SfihfUn ff/rmom Hu.Hh, Tuhiroloun .\tin»'lid.8 from tlie Pacific Ocean, H.-irri- 

 iiiuri .'Miuku Kxp'dition Itcports, IIX)."), pp. 190, 1U7. 



These e-xamjiles agree w«'ll with Mi.s.s Bush's description, but differ 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 359 



in having 7, 8 and 9 setigeroiis thoracic somites rcsjjectively. Only one 

 is well preserved and this has nearly the entire branchine wine brown, 

 deepest on the radioles and marked with white blotches. The bofly 

 is 41 mm., the branchise 30 mm. long, the former much contracted, the 

 latter extended. 



Station 4198, Halibut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, 157-230 fathoms, soft 

 green mud. 



Sabella elegans Bu«h. 



Subflln vici/nris Bush, Tubicolous Annelids from the Pacific Ocean, Harriman 

 -Alaska Expedition Reports, 1905, pp. 194, 195. 



A fine individual 50 mm. long with 19 pairs of branchiae has 4 rows 

 of very regular, deep purplish brown spots which occupy the radioles 

 and extend more faintly on to the pinn:e of each branchia. A second 

 smaller one has but 3 set^ of spots, and a third ^till smaller one has them 

 irregularly arranged. 



Stations 4227, vicinity of Xaha Bay, Behm Canal, southeastern 

 Ala.ska. 02-05 fathonLs, dark green nuul antl fine sand ; 4200, Dundas 

 Bay, Icy Strait, S.V-21 fathoms, coarse sand and rocks. 



Fsendopotamilla anoculata Moore. 



I'neitiloixilamUUt (inoculnta Moore, Proc. .\rad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 19<J5, pp. 50G- 



.5as, PI. XXXVII, figs. 2s-3;j. 

 Known from the type only, taken at Station 4230 in the vicinity of 

 Xaha Hay, Hchin Canal, 10S-24() fathoms, rocky l)ottom. 



Pteudopotamilla splendida .Moore. 



PseudopitninUln sitlcnditlu .Moore, Proc. .Vcad. -N'at. Sci. Pliihi., 1905, pp. 564-5GC, 

 PI. XXXVII, figs. 23-27. 



Two specimens were taken at Station 4245, Kasaan Bay, Prince of 

 Wales Island, June 11, 1903, 95-9S fathoms, dark green nuid and sand 

 mix(><l with slidl and rock fragments. 



Fteadopotamilla intermedia Moore. 



PsruilojHifiimilln intermedia Moore, Proc. .\cad. Xat. Sci. Pliila., 1905, pp. 

 5«)2-.-)(>t, PI. XX.XVII, fijcs. 1.5-22. 



The type only is known; originally reconUnl crnmciiusly &s coming 

 from Station 42f)7, but really from Station 420'.), Afognak Bay, Afog- 

 nak hhiiid, 14-19 fathoms, hard gray sand and rocks. 



Pseidopotamilla reniformii (Louokart) Buxh. 



PotamiUa reniformia Mjilingren, Ofven*, Kgl. Vot.-Akad. Tilrh., 1867, p. 114. 



Two specimens are each about 35 mm. long with 10 pairs 



of brancliiic nun. long. Both have 10 setigerous thoracic 



segments. The branchia* are colorless except for a brownish zone 



covering the ba-sal \. in which all of the eyes, never more than 1 or 2 on 




360 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



each racliole, are aggregated. Several regenerating radicles bear no 

 eyes. The dorsal branchial wing is well developed and there is a slight 

 ventral inflection of the branchial base. The collar has well developed 

 dorsal lobes near the median line, separated by a pair of very deep wide 

 notches from the lateral lobes, which rise abruptlj' above the collar 

 setie. There is a little pigment on the dorsmii of segments II to IV. 

 The tube is rather soft and flexible and covered with rather coarse sand 

 graias. 



Stations 4269, Afognak Bay, .\fognak Island, Alaska, 14^19 

 fathoms, hard gray sand and rocks; 4271, same region, 11^20 fathoms, 

 hard gray sand and rock. 



Pseudopotamilla brevibranohiata Moore. 



Pseudopotamilla brevibrnnchiala Moore, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 1905, 

 pp. .555-5.59, PI. XXXVII, figs. 1-7. 



Type and cotype taken at Station 4247, Kasaan Bay, Prince of Wales 

 Island, 95-114 fathoms, mixed mud, sand and broken shells. 



Pseudopotamilla occelata Moore. 



P-iendopntamilla occelala Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 190.5, .559-562, 

 PI. X.XXVII, fig. 8-14. 



This species occurs at the following stations: 4202, off Fort Rupert, 

 Vancouver Island, 25-36 fathoms, gray sand; 4261, Icy Strait, 10 

 fathoms, mud and rock; 4269 and 4270, 14-19 fathoms, hard sand and 

 rock. The largest specimeas, among them the type, are yielded by the 

 last station listed. 



Fieadopotamilla debilis Bush. 



rm-mlo/xilamilld (iebiliN BiLsh, Tuhicolous Annelids of the Pacific Ocean, 

 Harrinian -Vlaska Expedition Reports, 1905, p. 204. 



A single specimen lacking tlie posterior part represents this species. 

 There are 16 pairs of gills 14 mm. long. Eyes appear to be totally 

 wanting and the gills are marked by a pale brown zone near the base 

 and another a])out midway of their length. The collar is remarkable for 

 its i)romincnt dorsal lobes. The tube is long, .slender, flexible, and 

 sparsely covered with sand graias and an occasional small pebble. 



Station 4197, Gulf of Georgia, Halibut Ha?ik, 31-90 fathoms, sticky 

 green mud and i'luc sand. 



Chooe graoilii Moore. 



Chonc gracilin Moore, Proc. Ara<l. Nat. .Sri. Phil.i., 1900, pp. 2.57-259, PI. 

 XII, figs. 02-GO. 



Known through the type, which comes from Station 427-J, Alitak 

 Bay, Ka<liak I.sland, 35-41 fathoms, grorn mud and fine sand; and a 

 smaller specimen taken at Station 4253, Stephens Passage, 131-188 

 fathom.s, rocks and broken shells. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361 



SERPULID^ 



Apomatus genicalata Moore. 



Prntula geniculata Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 1904, pp. 168, 169, Pis. 

 XI, figs. 17, 1S;XII, fig. 38. 



A small complete specimen bears 18 pairs of gills, the left dorsal- 

 most one of which is enlarged and flattened and 

 supjDort.s only two or three barbs. In the bottle, 

 which contains no other specimens, is a detached 

 operculum which exactly fits the modified radiole 

 and withoutdoubt belongs to this annelid, placing 

 it therefore in the genus Apomatus. The opercu- 

 lum has the form shown in the figure, being 

 broadly obovate or egg-shaped and quite smooth, 

 soft and membranous. In all other respects the 

 specimen agrees with the type. Some fragments 

 of tubes indicate tiiat two are sometimes coherent Apomatus geniculata — 



side l)V side. The operculum and 



part of its stalk in 

 Station 4197, HaUbut Bank, Gulf of Georgia, outline, x about 25. 



31-9() fathoms, soft green mud and fine sand. 



Berpnia colnmbiana Johnson. 



Serpuln colnmbiana Johnson, Proc. Bos. Soc. Nat. Hi.st., XXIX, pp. 432, 433. 



Johnson describes the operculum as having about 100 ribs and 

 marginal denticulations. In these specimens the number is always 

 much greater and varies from 140 to 160. Miss Bush also has noted a 

 larger number on her specimens. The functional operculum is devel- 

 ope<l sometimes on the right, sometimes on the left side. The accessory 

 operculum is simply clavato. \'arying witii the size of the specimen 

 the branchiae number from 36 to 55 pairs. The setaj of the collar have 

 fn^m 2 to 4 large, blunt teeth at the ba.se of the long, slender, curved 

 tip, and the uncini are usually 5- or 6-toothed. Tubes forming a 

 large mass coherent side by side are much thinner and more fragile than 

 tiibes found singly. 



Port To\vnsen<l, on the dock at the Quarantine Station, also Station 

 4205, Admiralty Inlet, vicinity of Port Towasend, Washington, 15-26 

 f!itlir)m«, rock and shells. 



Cruoigera formoia liuHh. 



Crucifjrra JormoKa liu.sh, Tuliicolous Annelids of the Pacific Ocean, H.-irri- 

 inan .Vluhka Expedition J{eport.'<, llJO.'j, pp. 233, 234. 



This species seeins very doubtfully distinct from C. zygophora (John- 

 .son). The operculum is usually 26- or 27-niyed, but one specimen has 

 29 and another 32 rays. The tubes are thick antl solid and generally 




362 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [JunC, 



ranch coiled and coherent in chimps. One isolated tube is much coiled 

 at the attachetl base, with an erect free end. 



Stations 4209, Atlmiralty Inlet, \icinity of Port Town.-^cnd, Wash- 

 ington, 24-25 fathoms, rocks, coarse sand and shells; 4261, Dundas 

 Bay. Icy Strait, Alaska. 8^-10 fathoms. ,e:rcen mud and rocks; 4263, 

 same region, 6^9 fathoms, coai'se sand and rocks; 4271, Afognak Bay, 

 Afognak Island, IH to 20 fathoms, hard gray sand and rock; 4283, 

 Cliignik Bay, 30—41 fathoms, black sand and bro\\n sponge. Empty 

 tubes, apparently of this species, were found at Stations 4202, 4204 and 

 4289. 



Hyalopomatopsis occidentalis Bush. 



IJyal')pnmn(op<is ocriflentnlis Bush, Tubicolous Annelids of tlie Tribes 

 .Sabellides and Serpulidesfroin the Pacific Ocean, Harrinian Alaska Expedi- 

 tion Reports, 1905, p. 229. 



One was found attached to a tube of Serpula columbiana from Sta- 

 tion 4205, and another to a tube of Crucigera formosa from Station 

 4283. 

 Spirorbis qaadran^laris Stimpson. 



Spirorbis quadrangularis Stimpson, Bush, Tubicolous Annelids of the Tribes 

 Saljellides and Serpvilides from the Pacific Ocean, Harrinian Alaska 

 Expedition Reports, 190.5, p. 241. 



Found on tubes of Crucigera jormosa at Stations 4271 and 4289. 



Spirorbis spirillum Linn. 



Spirorbis spirillum Linn., Bush, id., p. 243. 



Numerous specimeas attached to a piece of giant kelp from Station 

 4262, Dundas Bay, Icy Strait, 9 fathoms, coarse sand and rocks; also 

 a number in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia (No. 1090), collected by Mr. E. A. Mcllhenny at Point 

 Jiarrow, Ala.ska. 



Spirorbis tridentata I^vin^on. 



Spirorbis grunul/ifa var. tridentata Tvevinson, Viden. Medd. Xaturli. Foren., 

 Kopenliaven, 1882, p. .3.")0; not S. Iridenlala Bu.sh. 



The tubes of this very characteristic species agree so closely with 

 I^cvinsen's figure that I refer them thereto, in preference to giving a new 

 name foundetl upon the peculiarities of the worm, though it may be 

 that tlie animal which occupies the tubes figured by Leviasen will j)rove 

 to befpiite'lifTerent, 



The figures of the tubes given by Leviasen would serve equally well 

 for these. They are close, sinistral, discoid coils without any true 

 central opening, the first coils being in contact in the center. As the 

 ttibes grow older the outer turns tend to overlap and \)\\v upon the 

 inner, Icanng a deep central depression bounde<l by nearly \ertical 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



363 



sides. At the same time the tube, which is perfectly smooth in the 

 early stages, becomes roughened by growtii lines, and its walls become 

 very thick, solitl and stony, and are ornamented by three thick and 

 stout ridges rounded on the free side and covering most of the outer 

 surface of the shell. Here and there the depressions between them are 

 crossed by transverse spurs and rods. At the aperture of the tube 

 these ritlges project as three very strong and jirominont teeth. Fully 

 developed tubes are usuall)'' 3.5 nun. in diameter and composed of 4 

 to 4^ turas. The carina begin at the end of the third titrn and Levin- 

 sen's figure veiy accurately represents one in a half-grown condition 

 in which the ridged whorl is just beginning to turn in upon tlie inner 

 coils. One more turn, with the ridge charactere exaggerated, would 



Spirorhh fridrnlnlus — a, an opcrruluin in side view, filled witli tiiiNryos and 

 hIiowthk tlu' iinpcrfoct four-ticn-d calrarcous pluR, X 24; b, one of tin- ralcarr- 

 cms plates detaelunl and seen from the inner surfaro, X 21; r, a collar seta, 

 the fin at the hase may be somewhat too lonp, X 'MX); '/, tiic two seta- of an 

 ahdominal hundle, X <'><)0. 



result in a condition exactly like my full-grown tubes, in which the 

 inner coils are completely concealed from above and the expose*! |)arts 

 bear massive ridges, Where free to grow without restraint the tubes 

 are strictly discoid and the lower sin*face of all of the coils is in intimate 

 contact with the alga to which they are attached, but when the indi- 

 viduals are crowdcnl the coils are heapc<l uj> in various irregtilar and 

 often angulate<l forms. 



In general form the operculum (a) agrees well with that of S. grantP- 

 httiis, being a slender cone containing a broad pouch filK^I with embryos 

 and tapering regularly into a long but rather stout stalk. The cal- 




364 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



careous part, however, is remarkable, being built up of 3 or even 4 (a) 

 calcareous disks of complex form (b). Each has a somewhat grooved 

 rim with thin projecting flanges whose margins appear to be entire 

 when perfect, but are usually jagged as a result of wear. It is very 

 seklom that more than the basal disk and the one next beyond are 

 found entire. An excentric opening prolonged into a tube on the 

 proximal side perforates eacli disk obliquely dorsal to the center and 

 accommodates the siphuncular ligament, binding all together. The 

 number of branchiae is about 11, but could not be definitely ascertained, 

 owing to their being so closely matted together. 



There are 3 thoracic and about 24 setigerous abdominal segments, 

 the latter region being veiy short. The winged collar setaj have the 

 form shown at c, the basal fin being veiy long, uniform!}'- serrated and 

 overlapping the base of the blade without an interval. The blade is 

 very finely serrated, long, acute, and tapering. The remaining thoracic 

 setae are partly limbate capillary and partly serrate and sickle-shaped. 

 Each fascicle of abdominal setae contains but two, one being a minute 

 aciculum with the end bent, the other having a broadly expanded end 

 much like those of S. spirillum {d). Nothing distinctive can be detected 

 about the uncinial plates. 



The type is No. 80, collection Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia, and was taken along with several cotypes at Dutch Harbor, 

 IJnalaska, by Dr. Benjamin Sharp. Attaciied to a tough alga frond. 




190S.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 365 



AN OETHOPTEROLOGICAL RECONNOISSANCE OF THE SOUTHWESTERN 

 UNITED STATES. PART I: ARIZONA. 



nv JAMES A. G. REHX AND MORGAN IIEBARD. 



Dvirinfj; tlie summer of 1907 Orthopterological field work was carried 

 on by the authoi-s at a number of stations extending from El Paso, 

 Texas, and Albuquerque, New Mexico, to southern and north-central 

 California, the material and notes secured being very extensive and of 

 great value. In this paper we present the results of our work in 

 Arizona, giving first an idea of the environment of the various locali- 

 ties visited. 



A trip to the little known Baboquivari range in southern Pima 

 County was interrupted and of necessity abandoned on account of the 

 flo(xle^l condition of the country to be traversed. Much good material, 

 however, was taken before our party was compellctl to return to 

 Tucson. 



Mr. Otho Poling, the well-known Lejiidoptcrist of (^uincy, Illinois, 

 accompanied us through southern Arizona and assisted in collecting 

 much of the material, while all secured in northern Arizona was taken 

 by the junior author. Tiie num])er of specimens examined was nine 

 hundred and seventy-three, while the sj)ecies numbcral sixty-three. 



Several specimens collected at Nogales and Grand Canyon by Dr. 

 P. P. Calvert in 1900 and a small series taken in oi- near the Iluachuca 

 Mountains by Mr. H. A. Kaeber in the summer of 1907 have also been 

 studied and inserted in this paper, but these are not included in the 

 count of species and sj)ecimens. 



The types of all the new forms are in the lleijartl Collection. 



Tucson, Pima County, Arizona. — Elevation about 2,400 feet. July 

 23 and 26. The immediate vicinity of Tucson is a nearly level desert 

 plain, extending from the Santa Catalina to the Tucson Mountains, 

 drained by the Santa Cruz River and other less constant and smaller 

 streams and washes. A considerable portion of this plain is covered 

 with stretches of greasewood (Covitlca tridcntata) and seattereil growths 

 of varioas cacti. In the vicinity of the water courses and washes 

 mc^quite {ProHopis sp.) is the jjredominating vegetation, attaining a 

 height of twenty feet or more in favorable localities, especially along 

 the Santa Cruz River. The mast succes-sful collecting was found in 

 and about a vacant lot on the etlge of the city, in the central part of 

 whieh wa-< a small pool of water, the outjit of a city drain, .\bout 




366 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



this pool were high cat-tails and other thick growths of plants, in which 

 situation Orthopters were found to be very plentiful, and likewise among 

 a nearby dense thicket of wild sunflowers and busiies. In these situa- 

 tions the following species were taken: Paratettix toltecus, Syrbida 

 fusco-vittata, Scyllina calida, Encoptolophus texensis, Trepidulits 

 rosaceus, Conozoa carinata, Anconia Integra, Schistocerca vaga, ^oloplus 

 tenuipennis, Melanoplus hrovmii, M. atlanis and (Ecanihus quadripunc- 

 tatits. In the irrigated fields near the river some specimens were found, 

 although by no means as many as might have been expected in a 

 locality apparently so favorable. On the typical desert greasewood 

 plain forms peculiar to a like environment, such as Heliastus aridus, 

 Ligurotettix kunzei, Derotmema laticinctum and Psoloessa texana, were 

 taken. In the city at night about the arc lights thousands of Gryllids 

 swarmed and could be easily captured in great numbers. 



Sonora Road Canyon, Tucson Mountains, Pima County, Arizona. — 

 Altitude about 3,000 feet. July 25. The old Sonora trail after leaving 

 Tucson winds around the southeast base of the rather low Tucson 

 Mountains, then turns sharply and crosses the range by following up 

 an arroyo or torrent bed and traversing a very low pass in a shallow 

 canyon with sloping sides. The canyon is ver>' rough and much of the 

 rock exposure is dull reddish in color. The vegetation is composed in 

 large part of desert foothill types, the most noticeable of which are 

 numerous sahuaro {Cereus giganteus), palo verde (Cercidium torrey- 

 anum), choUa {Opunlia sp.) and the peculiar Koeberlinia spirwsa. 

 Orthoptera were few in number, but the species found were of very 

 great interest and differed noticeably from those of the surrounding 

 plains. These included a new mantis Yersinia sophronica, a new 

 Truxalid Horesidotes papagensis, Ageneoiettix australis, Aulocara 

 rufum, Arphia teporata and Phrynotcttix magnus. The majority of 

 the specimens taken showed considerable adaptation of their coloring 

 to the reddish exposures. 



Sahuaro Slope, Souihwest Side of the Tucson Mountaitis, Pima County, 

 Arizona. — July 25. After crossing the Tucson range the Sonora trail 

 descends the exteasive and gentle southwestern slope of the mountains 

 through a numerous growth of sahuaro or giant cactus {Cereus gi- 

 ganteus), with attendant greascwo(jd (CoiuV/m /nV/r/j/o/a) bushes grow- 

 ing thickly and often to a height of over six feet. Many other plants 

 flourisj), the intervening ground between them being usually quite 

 bare, as is often the case in this desert country. On the grease- 

 wood in this situation Ligurotettix was very plentiful and its faint 

 stridulation was to lie heard on every side. Most of the collecting 

 was done at an elevation of about 2,500 feet. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 367 



Near Sonora Road, Southwest of the Tucson Mountains, Pima County, 

 Arizona. — July 25. Several mil&s from the Tucson Mountains col- 

 lecting was carried on for a short time in a grassy area with occasional 

 bunches of rabbit-weed. In this locality Orthoptera were found to be 

 far more plentiful than on the surrounding more truly desert plain. 

 Among the species taken were Psolocssa tcxana, Encopiolophus sub- 

 gracUis, Tomonotus aztecus, Trepidulus rosaceus, Trepidulus melleolus, 

 Derotmcmn laticinctum and Hcsperotettix fcstivus. 



Roeblc's Ranch, n^^ar Coyote Springs, Pitna County, Arizona. — July 24 

 and 25. This locality is in the lower level of a plain stretching from 

 the Tucson to the Comobabi range, near a large arroyo known as Roeble's 

 Wash. It is in a uniform mesquitc and rabbit-weal region, with no 

 striking difference in conditions for a number of miles to the northeast. 

 Two specimeas of Trepidulus melleolus were the most interesting 

 forms taken. 



Yuma, Yuma County, Arizona. — Elevation about 150 feet. July 27 

 and 28. To the east of Yuma the desert stretches, broken by occa- 

 sional low volcanic hills, where it is too hot for even the greasewood 

 to thrive and desert Orthoptera are almost wholly absent. Along the 

 Colorado River,- however, is a wide strip of willows, and back of these 

 ground heavily overgrown witii arrow-wood {Pluchca sericca) and 

 other reeds where collecting was more productive. These, although 

 so near the river, were nevertheless parchefl with the heat. To the 

 east along the Gila River a great expaase of high weeds was found, 

 but so dry that many fell to pieces when touched and insect life was 

 extremely scarce. In the irrigatc<l tract below Yuma OrphuhUa 

 compta was very abundant. In the town at night Gryllidic and thou- 

 sands of beetles and other iasects swarmed around the arc lights. All 

 of these Grj'Uids flew rapidly about, and would have been difficult to 

 capture had they not come to the light dazed and confused. 



Williams, Coconino County, Arizona. — Altitude, 6,748 feet. Sep- 

 tember 13. The little collecting done here was accomplisluHl near the 

 station in a field of short weeils and grass, and also near the pine 

 "glades" as they may be called. The whole countr>' about Williams 

 is on nearly the same plane but gently rolling. Over this area pines 

 were thickly scattered, underneath which was practicall}' no under- 

 brush but very green grasses, thLs vegetation imparting to the whole 

 country a park-like a|)j)oarancc. In the vacant ficM, wliere the wceils 

 were more abundant than elsewhere, Orthoptera were found more 

 plentiful than we had expecte<l to find them at this elevation. 



Anita, Coconino County, Arizona. — Altitude about (».5fK) foet. Sep- 

 tember 11. At this small station, bet wi-.n Willi.ims and the Grand 




368 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [J^l^Y; 



Canyon, but very little time was allowed for collecting. It is in the 

 midst of the pine "glades," and, no town being located there, the few 

 specimens taken are typical of the park-like country on the top of 

 the Coconino plateau. The country was in general the same as that 

 outside the town of Williams. 



Grand Catujon of the Colorado, Coconino County, Arizona. Rim of 

 the Canyon at Bright Angel and Vicinity. — Elevatit)n, 0,800-7,000 feet. 

 September 11. Back from the edge of the canyon the country is rolling 

 and covered with a forest of pines, under which in most places there is 

 practically no vegetation or soil on the sheet of rock forming the top 

 layer of the plateau. 



In this country collecting was almost utterly without result, but 

 along the edge of the canyon, and for a short distance back from it, 

 better results were obtained. An area to the southeast of the hotel 

 was also found where there was some low vegetation imder the pines 

 and in this situation Agcneotettix curtipennis and Ampkitornus nanus 

 were taken. 



The Bright Angel rro?/.— Altitudes, 6,866-2,436 feet. September 12. 

 For some distance on this trail the collecting proved to be much as at 

 the edge of the canyon, but farther down at about 5,850 feet the canyon 

 side became more open, a few junipers appeared and the open places 

 were filled with thickets and grasses. It was here (5,800-4,900 feet 

 elevation) that Melanoplus canonicus and Syrbula modesta were not 

 uncommon, but more or less difficult to capture owing to the extreme 

 steepness of the location. Farther down (elevation 4,850-8,900 feet) 

 in the gras.sy valley above the Indian Garden Spring, it was surprising 

 to note that, in spite of the difference of three thousand feet in elevation 

 and the more grassy country, practically the same forms as those 

 occurring at the top of the canyon were found. In the garden of the 

 Indian Spring House one Paratettix toltecus was taken. Diligent 

 search faile<l to disclo.se more than two specimens of Orthoptera on the 

 wide canyon mesa (3,700-3,800 feet) which was covered with a sage 

 and occasional patches of prickly pear. The Trimerotropis vinculata 

 was among sage, wliilc the Pamjxnnala perpallida was captured on the 

 very brink of the canyon precipice (elevation 3,750 feet) in a scant 

 })unch of a sort of wire-grass. 



BLATTID^. 

 PERIPLANETA Munneister. 

 Periplaneta amerioana (Linnii-ux). 



A female of this species was taken at Tucson, .July 2'.], and a male at 

 Yuma, July 27, attracted to liglit in both cases. 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



369 



This widely distributed species has previ(3usly been recorded from 

 Arizona at Yuma, Nogales, Florence and Phcenix. 



HOM(EOGAMIA Burmeister. 

 Homoeogamia erratica Helm. 



A single male of this species was attracted to light at Yuma, July 27. 



MANTID^ 



YERSINIA tfaus>ure. 

 Yersinia sophronica' n. sp. 



Type: $ ; Sonora Road Canyon, Tucson Mountains. Pima County, 

 Arizona, altitude 3,000 feet. July 25, 1907. Collected by Hebard 

 and Rehn. 



This very peculiar species differs from }'. solitai-ia Scudder from the 

 eastern slope and foothills of the Rocky Mountains, western Nebraska 

 and southeastern Ai-izona in the smaller size, the more compressed 

 head vnih strongly acute mammiform eye.s which are hardly at all 

 divergent and in the shorter cephalic limbs. In the form of the head 

 and eyes this species suggests the structure found in the African and 

 Indian genera Episcopus and Parcpiscopus. 



Size small; form very slender; surface smooth. Head strongly com- 

 pressed ; occiput strongly concave, rounded ; 

 intcrantennal region with a pair of median 

 parallel longitudinal carina' which termi- 

 nate dorsad in short sharp points before 

 reaching the dorsal line of the head; 

 anteniue filiform, not (|uite equal to the 

 pronotum in length ; eyes very elongate, 

 not divergent, subparallel, strongly pro- 

 duced mammiform. Pronotum rather 

 short, sube{iual in width without any 

 markcnl supra-co.xal dilation, the width 

 contaiiKHJ nearly three times in the 

 length; cephalic margin rounded, caudal 

 margin truncate; me<lian carina distinct 

 throughout, but very ticlicate on the collar. 

 Mesonotum and metanotum little e.\- 

 panded, with distinct nu^lian carina, no 

 vcf^tiges of tegmina or wings. Abdomen 

 Bubfasiform, a finely marked median 

 carina |)resent throughout it.s length, 

 distal third quite narrow; supra-anal plat;* 

 trigonal ; Hubgenital plate rounded with a median inci.siondividing it into 



Fif?. 1. — Yersinia Kophrqnica 

 n. sp. IX)r8al view of type, 

 (X 5.) 



' ILu^pnvtKt) , discreet. 




370 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



two lobes; cerci damagal. Cephalic coxib about two-thirds the length 

 of the pronotum and not extending caudad of the same; cephalic 

 femora slightly longer than the coxae, quite robust, external margin 

 armed with six short irregularly placed spines, internal margin with 

 eleven spines, the majority of alternating sizes, largest 

 discoidal spines quite robust; cephaUc tibiae very 

 slightly less than half the length of the femora, armed 

 on the external margin with eight spines, internal 

 margin with about seven spines, terminal claw large; 

 cephalic metatarsi about as long as the tibise, slender, 

 -.^ remaining tarsal joints about equal to the metatarsi 



Fig 2. — Yersinia ^^ length. Median limbs rather short, femora very 

 sophronica n.sp. slightly expanded proximad. Caudal limbs mod- 

 head. (X 10.) erat^ly slender; femora reaching to the apex of the 

 fifth abdominal segment, distinctly but slightly in- 

 flated in the proximal two-thirds; tibiae equal to the femora in length, 

 very slender; caudal tarsi short. 



General color cinnamon-rufous, darkened on the dorsum of the 

 head and the median area of the pronotum ; metlian line of the abdomen 

 Vandyke brown. Face burnt umber except antennae and mouth parts 

 which are pale ochraceous. Apex of abdomen washed with broccoli 

 brown, the tips of the terminal plates ochraceous. Limbs ochraceous, 

 tending to ochraceous-rufous on the metlian and caudal femora and 

 dorsal edge of cephalic femora. 



Measurements. 



length of body, 14 mm. 



lycngth of pronotum, 3.2 " 



I>ength of cephalic femur. 2.6 " 



Ixingth of caudal femur, 5.7 " 



The unique type was found running actively about among the stones 

 of a bare hillside. 



LITANEUTRIA Snusaure. 

 Litaneatria skinneri Uehn. 



A male specimen from the Grand Canyon, altitude 7,000 feet, Septem- 

 ber 11, 1007, belongs to this species, while another male, not quite 

 mature, from Tucson, July 20, is referre<l to it with some little doubt. 

 The Grand Canyon male has the togmina slightly shorter than the 

 typical individtials of that sex, while the blackish tegminal maculation 

 of the type is aljscnt. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 371 



PSEUDOSEKMYLE Caudell. 

 Pseadosermyle tranoata Caudell. 



Two male specimens of this species taken at Palmerlee, Huachuca 

 Mountains, Cochise County, July 9 and IG, by Mr. H. Kaeber have been 

 examined. The species is now known to range from the Grand Canyon 

 region south at least to the southern boundary of the Territory and west 

 to southern California. The localities from which it has been recorded 

 are Dos Cabezos, Bright Angel, San Bernardino Ranch and the Hua- 

 chuca and Santa Rita Mountains. 



ACRIDID^. 

 PARATETTIX Bolivar. 

 Paratettix toltecns (Saussure). 



At Tucson two females of this species were taken on July 26, and a 

 single female was collected by Hebard at 3876 feet elevation on the 

 Bright Angel Trail, Grand Canyon, September 12. These individuals 

 were taken on damp ground near water. All three specimens have 

 the apex of the pronotum failing to reach the tips of the caudal 

 femora. 



MERMIRIA Stdl. 

 Mermiria texana Druiier. 



A female specimen of this species taken at Palmerlee, Huachuca 

 Mountains, Cochise County, July 0, by Mr. H. Kueber has been examined, 



PAROPOMALA Scudder. 

 Paropomala acris n. sp. 



Type:o^ ; Railroad Pass, Cochise County, Arizona, altitude 4,386 

 feet. July 23, 1907. (Hebard and Rehn.) 



This species differs from the previously known species of the genus 

 in the following particulars: from cylindrica and calamus in the much 

 shorter subgenital plate and longer tegmina; from pallida in the 

 slenderer form and more acute fastigium; from dissimilis and virgata 

 in the more producefl head, the more acute fastigium and the more 

 elliptical eyes. 



Size rather small; form elongate, very slender. Heatl with the 

 dorsum slightly longer than the dorsum of the pronotum, occiput 

 hunily elevate<l, very slightly arched, fiustigium and interocular region 

 horizontal; interocular region slightly narrower than the greatest 

 width of the fastigimn; fastigium longer than broad, distinctly acute- 

 annulate in shape with the inune<iiate apex well roundetl, surface of the 

 fastigium with a circular impression covering about two-thirds the 

 circumference of a circle; eye elongate-ovate; angle of face considerably 

 retreating, the intcrantennal region with the angle less acute and 




372 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[July 



Fig. 3. — Paropomala acris n. sp. Lateral view of tynpe. (X 4.) 



joining the fastigium in a distinctly but not greatly acute angle, 

 frontal costa narrow, gradually and slightly but rather irregularly 

 expanding caudad, strongly sidcate from the fastigial angle to the 

 clypeus; lateral foveolse broad linear, slightly arcuate, distinctly 

 impressed ; antenna? exceeding the head and pronotum by about the 

 length of the fastigium, distinctly ensiform, tips very slender. Pro- 

 notum very slightly constricted mesad, the caudal width of the disk 

 containe<l about twice in the length; cephalic margin of the disk 

 irregularly arc\iate, caudal margin of the disk regularly arcuate; 

 median carina distinct throughout its length, 

 not high ; prozona nearly half again as long as 

 the metazona, mctazona deeply punctate, lateral 

 lobes distinctly longer than deep, ventral margin 

 nearly straight, cephalic margin straight oblique, 

 metazona of the lateral lobes punctate. Tegmina 

 excelling the tips of the caudal femora by very 

 slightly more than the length of the fastigium 

 and falling very little short of the tip of the sub- 

 genital plate, in shape very narrow with the apex 

 narrowly n)und(Hl. Prostoriuim with a low blunt 

 process. Interspace between the mcsosternal 

 lobes very narrow and apparently divided mesad 

 i)y the lobes which are subcontiguous at that 

 point ; metastcrnal lobes contiguous. Sujjra-anal 

 plate acute-trigonal, arched transversely, slightly 

 flattcrKHJ dorsad; ccrci sim|)le. styliform, very 

 sliglitiy arcuate ventra<i, reaching nearly to the 

 apex of the supra-anal plate; subgenital plate moderately compressed 



KIk- •!. — Paropnmoln 

 Ill-Hit n. ep. Donwi' 

 o u 1 1 i n ' 

 (X 4.) 



..f l..)ir|. 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 373 



acute-angulate in outline when viewed from the side, apex well rounded , 

 the dorsum of the plate with a malian longitudinal lamellate carina. 

 Cephalic and median limbs very short. Caudal femora half again as 

 long a.s the head and pronotum together, compressetl, moderately 

 slemler; tibiifi very slightly t^horter than the femora, armal on the 

 external margin with fourteen spines. 



General color dorsad and ventrad salmon, a chalk-white bar on each 

 side extending from the caudal and ventral margin of the eye over the 

 entire genae, ventral half of the lateral lobes of the pronotum, pleura 

 and lateral face of the caudal femora. This white bar is bordered dorsad 

 by one of cliocolate which is very narrow at the ej'e but gradually 

 expands to the middle of the pronotum, whence it as gradually contract.s 

 until it is last dorsad of the articulation of the caudal limbs. Another 

 narrow whitish line is present on each side of the head and prozona be- 

 tween the chocolate bar antl the general color and a pair of lunate 

 bars of vinaceous-rufous are present on the occijnit. Eyes tawny olive; 

 antenna? and face raw umber. Tegmina buff, iiumeral vein seal brown. 



Measurements. 



Length of Ixxly, 21 mm. 



Length of pronotum, . . IJ '* 



Length of tegmen, . . 11" 



Length of caudal femur, '■>•>> 



The type is the only specimen of the species examined and wa.'^ taken 

 on the desert summit of the Pass, among mesquite bushes and dry grass. 

 Paropomala perpallida n. np. 



Type: g ; near liright Angel Trail, elevation 3,750 feet. Grand 

 Canyon of the Colorado, Coconino County, Arizona. September 12, 

 V.m. Collected by .M. Hebanl. 



This species is closely related to P. pallida liruner from the Salton 

 liasin, California and .southwestern Arizona, difTering in the consider- 

 ably smaller size. 



Size small; form nuMlerately slender (for the genus). Ilea*! very 

 slightly longer than the dorsum of the pronotum; occiput and inter- 

 ocular region regularly but not strongly arcuate from tiie pronotum 

 to about the mi<ldle of the fastigium; interocular region very slightly 

 narrower than the greatest fa-stigial width .fji.'^tigium slightly longer than 

 broad, lateral margins acute-angulate but with the apex vcr>' broadly 

 rounde<l. impres.sed pattern on the <lisk of the fiustigium semicircular; 

 face ver>' consideral)ly retreating, interantennal region with the angle 

 much les-s acute and very narrowly rounding into the fastigium, 

 frontal costa sul)eciual in width to below the median ocellus whence it 




374 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[July, 



Fig. 5. — Paropotnala perpallida n. sp. Lateral view of type. (X 5.) 



regularly but not greatly expands to the clypcal suture, sulcatc through- 

 out its length ; eyes narrow-ovate, moderately prominent when viewed 

 from the dorsum; lateral foveola? sublanceolate, slightly arcuate, deeply 

 impressed; antennae about three times the length of the pronotum, 

 slightly depressed and expanded proximad, tips very slender. Pro- 

 notum with the caudal width of the disk contained slightly less than 

 twice in the length of the disk; cephalic margin of the disk subtruncate, 

 caudal margin arcuate with the median portion some- 

 what flattened; median carina distinct but low, 

 prozona slightly more than half again the length of 

 the metazona, the latter on the dorsum and lateral 

 lobes thickly but shallowly punctate; lateral lobes 

 slightly longer than deep, ventral and cephalic mar- 

 gins obliquely sublinear, Tegmina reaching to the 

 apex of the subgcnital plate, narrow, apex truncato- 

 rotundatc. Mesosternal lobes sei)arated by a very 

 narrow space; metasternal lobes attingent. Sub- 

 genital i)late slightly compressetl, apex very slightly 

 rastratc. Ce])halic and me<iian limbs very short. 

 Caudal femora failing to reach the tips of the tegmina 

 by more than half the length of the pronotum, mod- 

 mala perpallida cratcly slender, romj^rcssed ; caudal tibine slightly 



n. HP DorHul shorter than the femora, external margin armed with 

 outline of neuu. ... 

 (X 6.) thirteen spines. 



General color cream-bufT with a barely appreciable 



greenish tinge. Dark lateral bars vandyke brown, gradually expanding 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 375 



on the head, continued over the lateral lobes and pleura, suffusing 

 the base of the costal field of the tcgmina and coloring the proximal half 

 of the discoid al and humeral veins of the same and the dorsal half of 

 the proximal abdominal segments. Wliite lateral bars as in P. acris, 

 but not present on the caudal femora. Eyes clay color marbled with 

 bistre; face and mouth parts sprinlded with small spots of brown; 

 antennae tawny, darker proximad. Caudal femora of the general 

 color with the doi-sal half of the lateral face pale vinaceous bordered 

 ventrad by a line of dots of brownish. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 16.2 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 2.5 " 



Length of tegmen, 11 " 



Length of caudal femur, 8 " 



The type specimen is the only one examined b}' the authors. It 

 was taken on the extreme edge of the canyon plateau and was found 

 clinging to a wisp of dry grass, the only vegetation along the extreme 

 edge of the plateau above the trail. 



8YRBULA St&l. 

 Syrbula fuscovittata Thomas. 



At Tucson on July 26 two males and three females of this species 

 were taken from high weeds growing in damp soil surrounding a pool. 

 An immature female was also taken in Sonora Road Canyon, Tucson 

 Mountains, July 25. 



One of the males is in a condition similar to that of the sj)ocimcn of 

 the same sex recorded by Rehn.^ Two of the females are in the green 

 phase and the other in the brown phase, with, however, much very 

 pale green on the face and sides of the head, lateral lobes of the pro- 

 notum, tegmina and caudal femora. The males are smaller than the 

 average of a series of eight from the Huachuca Mountains. 

 Syrbala modesta Bruncr. 



This rather diminutive species was taken at elevations ranging from 

 4,1X)0 to 5,-S()() feet in the Gratui Canyon, three male-^ and two females 

 being included in the series. Apparently this species has two color 

 j)has('s, as all the specimens .seen are in a brown phase of coloration, 

 while Hruner's original descrijjtion shows that his specimens had green 

 or greenish the predominating color. 



Proc. Aead. Not. Set. Phila., 1907. p. 32. 




376 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [J^llv 



As far as known this species is found only in the Grand Canyon 

 region. Tiie males of this form, instead of flying straight from one 

 place to another, rise usually very swiftly in a curve which, on account 

 of their size and coloration, makes them veiy hard to follow. The 

 females rely almost altogether on their powerful saltatorial ability. 

 Often in alighting the males would select the terminal twigs of a juniper 

 as resting places. In distribution it appeared to be very local. 



BOOTETTIX Bruner. 

 Bootcttix argentatns Bruner. 



This very interesting species was taken at several localities and 

 always on its favorite shrub, the greasewood (Covillea tridentata). 

 At Yuma on July 27 it was found to be numerous and seven males 

 were taken; an immature individual was collected at Sentinel, July 27. 

 An adult male and an immature specimen were taken on the 

 Sahuaro slope southwest of the Tucson Mountains, July 25. 



All the specimens collecte<l lack decided spots on the sutural margin 

 of the tegmina, and even traces are present in only one individual. 



AMPHITOENUS McNeill. 

 Amphitomas nanus n. ><p. 



Tyjje : cT ; Grand Canyon of the Colorado, Coconino County, Arizona, 

 altitude 7,000 feet, in conifer forest. September 11, 1907. Collected 

 by Morgan Hebard. 



Closely related to A. ornalus McNeill, but differing in the verj'^ small 

 size (length of body 14.5 mm.) and the shorter tegmina which hardly 

 surpass the tips of the caudal femora. 



Size quite small; form as usual in the genus. Head veiy slightly 

 shorter than the dorsum of the pronotum, occiput and interocular 

 region regularly but slightly ascending to the fastigium; interocular 

 region but little narrower than the greatest fastigial width; fastigium 

 slightly acutc-angulate, the inmiediate apex narrowly rounded, 

 mo<lian carina distinct on occiput, interocular region and fastigium, 

 ven»' low except on the fastigium; face considerai)ly retreating, inter- 

 antennal region rounding to the subrectangulate junction with the 

 fastigium ; frontal costa nifKleratoly l)road and subcfpial tf) a very short 

 distance ventrad of the ocellus, considerably broader and subecjual 

 thence to the clypeal suture, for its entire lengtli depre.s.sed within its 

 margins and pimctato; eyes subacutc-ovat^, hardly prominent when 

 viewed from the dorsum; lat<'ral foveohe distinct, impressed caudad; 

 antenna; about ecpial to the head and pronotum in length, rather 

 robust, slightly de[)ressed prf)ximad, tips bluntly artiminate. Pro- 




190S.] 



NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADKLPHIA. 



377 



notum with the disk about half again as long as the greatest caudal 

 width of the same; cephalic margin of the disk subtruncate, caudal 

 margin very obtuse-angulate ; median carina moderately elevated, 

 accesson- carinee distinct and parallel with but weaker than the median 

 one; lateral lobes slightly longer than deep. Tegmina exceeding the 

 abdomen by slightly less than the length of the eye and very slightly 

 surpassing the tips of the caudal femora; apices of tegmina rounded; 

 intercalary vein absent. Interepace between the mesosternal lobes 

 subquadrate, but little narrower than one of the lobes; metasternal 

 lobes subattingent caudad. Subgenital plate blunt, somewhat 

 compressed dorsad. Caudal femora slightly more than three times 

 the length of the pronotum, of medium build ; caudal tibiae considerably 



Fig. 7. — AmphitomuH nanus n. sp. Lateral view of type. (X 5.) 



shorter than the femora, armed on tlic lateral margin with eleven to 

 twelve spines. 



General colors vandyke l)rown, seal l)r()wn and jdiikish white. A 

 narrow line of white extends from the cau(hil margin of the eye obli(|uely 

 ventro-cauilad to the pronotal margin, thence traiLsversely acnxss tlie 

 lateral lobe, curving somewhat ventrad at the caudal margin. An- 

 other whitish line extends from the base of each antenna its a narrow 

 line bordering the ventro-cephalic and ventral border of the eye, 

 broadening and extending diagonally across the gena to the ventro- 

 caudal angle of the same, reappearing again a.s a mcKlerately wide 

 white ventral border to the lateral lobe, separated from the one dorsad 

 of it i)V a wider bar of seal brown, and vanishing dorsad of the in.sertion 

 of the mo<liati limbs. Head with the dorsal surface, sides and face 

 seal brown, aside from the white bars nientione«l above and a bar of 




378 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jwlv, 



mars brown extending from the dorso-caudal margin of the eye to the 

 caudal margin of the pronotum, margining the disk on the latter; eyes 

 and antenna) walnut brown. Pronotum with the disk seal brown, 

 except for the area between the supplementary carinae which is choco- 

 late.' Tegmina vandyke brown, seal brown proximad in the region of 

 the humeral and discoidal veins; area between the mediastine and 

 humeral veins proximad ^\dth a bar of whitish. Venter and abdomen 

 naples yellow, stippled on the sides and apex of the abdomen with 

 brownish. Cephalic and median limbs thickly sprinkled with walnut 

 brown on a paler ground. Caudal femora with the dorsal half with 

 ecru drab as a base color, ventral half straw yellow, genicular region 

 seal brown, bar at a third the length from the tips seal brown, distinct 

 and solid dorsad, weak ventrad; dorsal face with the proximal half 

 washed with seal brown and the dorsal half of the lateral face 

 clouded with one extensive proximal maculation and a smaller median 

 one. Caudal tibiae glaucous blue, blackish at the genicular region and 

 pale between this and the glaucous portion, spines with their distal 

 halves black. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 14.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 2.7 " 



Length of tegmen, 11.5 " 



Length of caudal femur, 8.7 " 



The unique type was found on ground devoid of vegetation but 

 covered with needles in the dense pifion and juniper forest. No other 

 Orthoptera were noticed in this locality. 



ORPHULELLA Giglio-Tos. 

 Orphulella oompta Scwider. 



This species was exceedingly abundant at Yuma, on irrigated ground 

 along the C<jlora<lo River south of the town. On July 28 a series of 

 twenty-six males, sixteen females and two nymphs was taken. 



Of this series about half is in the green phase, while the remainder is 

 divided between a full brown phase and one possessing both green and 

 brown in its make-up — a mixed phase. Only one, a female, shows 

 any tendency t^nvard purplish on the tegmina, and in this case it is not 

 strongly marked. There is a considerable amount of variation in size 

 in both sexes, and also in the form of the angle and depth and extent 

 of the excavation of the fastigium. 



* This bar ib very faintly indicated on the head. 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 379 



The records of this species show its main range to be over the lower 

 part of the Colorado Vallej'' and adjacent Salton Jiasin, while the occur- 

 rence of it at San Bernardino Ranch, Cochise County, in southeastern 

 Arizona, in all probability, is due to the species following up the Yaqui 

 Valley from the Gulf of California section of Mexico. 



H0EESID0TE8 Scudder. 

 Horesidotes papagensis n. sp. 



Type: ? ; Sonora Road Canyon, Tucson Mountains, Pima County, 

 Arizona, altitude about 3,000 feet. July 25, 1907. Hebard and 

 Rehn. 



Closely allied to H. cinereiis Scudder, with topotypcs of which it has 

 been compared, but differing in the somewhat smaller size, blunter 

 fastigium, greater interspace between the eyes, less apparent lateral 

 foveolae, quite distinct and continuous intercalary vein and more 



(' 



} 



Fip. 8. — Iloresidolcs /xj/wj/ch.vi.s- n. sp. Latoral view of typo. (X 4.) 



robust and inflate* 1 and proportionately somewhat shorter caudal 

 femora. 



Size moderate; form di.stinctly compressed. Head slightly shorter 

 than the dorsal length of the jjronotum, ascending on the occij)ut to the 

 vertex which is interocular, fastigium well roundwi into the facial out- 

 line; intcrocular region subequal to the width of the fastigium, the 

 occiput and interocular region with a weak me<liun and pair of closely 

 placed supplementary carina?; fastigium slightly broader than long, 




3S0 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[July, 



slightly acute-angulate with the apex blunt, surface but slightly de- 

 pressed in the form of a crescent; lateral foveolae entirely visible from 

 the doi-sum, sublinear, slightly arcuate, not deejily impressetl ; face 

 moderately retreating; frontal costa regularly expanding ventrad, 

 sulcate and improssc<l for a distance ventrad of the ocellus, punctate 

 dorsad ; eyes somewhat acute-ovate, not very prominent when viewed 

 from the dorsum; antennae about as long as the head and pronotum, 

 depressed and slightly expanded proximad. Pronotum somewhat 

 const rictal mesad ; cephalic margin of disk slightly 

 arcuate, caudal margin obtuse-angulate ; median 

 carina distinct and well elevated, severed by the 

 transverse sulcus slightly caudatl of the middle, 

 lateral carinae slightly less elevated tlian the 

 median, arcuate convergent on the cephalic third 

 of the disk, at a third the length from the cephalic 

 margin they are separated by a space but little 

 more than half that separating them at the cephalic 

 margin, from which point of greatest proximity 

 they diverge in straight line to the caudal margin 

 where they are slightly more distant than cephalad ; 

 lateral lobes as deep as long, A-entral margin 

 obtuse-angulate. Tegmina exceeding the apex 

 of the abdomen by about the doi-sal length of the 

 head, narrow, tips rounded; intercalary vein dis- 

 Fig. 0. — Iforesidoies tinct and continuous, at least distad ; lobe on the 



i)!/rsafvk'wof htnui f^o^tal margin small. Intei-space between the 



and 



(X4.) 



pronotum. 



mesosternal lobes subquadrate, narrower than 

 the width of one of the lobes; metasternal lobes 

 subcontiguous caudad. Cephalic and median limbs of medium build. 

 Caudal femcira three times the length of the pronotum, ratiier robust; 

 caudal tibiaj slightly shorter than the femora, armed on the external 

 margin with ten sj)ines, internal spin's subequal. 



(jeneral dorsal color prout's brown, obsc\n'ely sprinkleil and mottled 

 with Vandyke brown; general ventral color ochraceous-bufT becoming 

 very pale yellowish on the abdomen. Head with tlie face and ventral 

 half of genie ochraccous-hufT s|)rinkl(Hl with Vandyke brown, mouth- 

 parts rufoiw; eyes clay color mottlcMl with Vandyke l)rown; antennae 

 nifou.s bcjcoming olive-bufT distad. Pronotum with the disk sliglitly 

 paler than the dorsal half of the lateral loix's, line between doi-sai and 

 ventral color slightly below the mi<l<lle of the lateral lobes, simiate, 

 sharply defined; an isoIat<><l bar of tlu; ventral color is present dorsad 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 381 



of the insertion of the caudal limbs. Tegmina of the dorsal color. 

 Cephalic and median limbs tawny, obscurely and imperfectly annulate 

 and marbled with darker. Caudal femora vinaceous-einnamon, 

 marbled and washed with vandyke bro\Mi; caudal tibisB very pale 

 glaucous, becoming ochraceous proximad, entirely overlaid with fine 

 purplish-red mottlings, spines and spurs with their apical halves black. 



Measurements. 



Length of body. 21.2 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 4 " 



Length of legmen. . 17.6 " 



Length of caudal femur, 12.7 " 



The male specimen from Yuma County, Arizona, recorded by the 

 senior author* as Horesidotes cinereus? is seen on re-examination and 

 comparison with the recently acquired material to be nearer papagensis, 

 to which we tentatively refer it. 



The type of papagensis was taken among leaves under bushes on the 

 canyon bottom, and showed no inclination to leave the ground. 



SCYLLINA .St&l. 

 Scyllina calida Bruner. 



( )n(' female specimen of this species was taken at Tucson, July 26, in 

 short grass growing about the end of a drain. Its movements were 

 (juite awkward. 



The previoiLs records of this species in the United States are from 

 San Bernardino Ranch, Cochise County, and Baboquivari >Iountains, 

 Pima County, Arizona. 



P80L0ESSA Scu.l.lor. 

 Psoloeisa tezana Scu>l>ler. 



The series of specimens of the genus Psoloessa taken in Arizona in the 

 summer of 1907 numbers one liundred and six. After considerable 

 study of this and other material, the autliDrs are under the nece-^-^ity of 

 considering the four nominal species of this gen as (texana, ferruginea, 

 yn/tculipennis and hnddiana) as one, for which they seh^ct the name 

 teiana as it has page priority over ferruginea and ninruliprnniji, 

 Inuldiana being of much later date. 



To some this may appear unwarrant<^l as characters, such as the 

 angle of the face, prop<;rtions of the lateral foveolje of the head and the 

 width of the fastigium, as well as the color pattern, have l)een used in 



♦ Proc, Acad. Nat. Set. Phila., 1904, p. 563. 

 25 




382 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



keys to separate the "species." To present the reasons for creating 

 the synonj-my clearly, it would be best to explain the methods used in 

 reacliing the conclusions. The original descriptions of ferruginea, 

 maciUipentm, texana and buddiana were tabulated in parallel columns, 

 and from the mass of material specimens which agreed as nearly as 

 possible with these descriptions were selected. The condensed diagnos- 

 tic characters of the four "species" are as follows : 



Typical buddiana. Whole dorsum uniform pale pinkish brown. 

 Lateral bars soUd and well marked. Caudal femora with but a faiut 

 indication of the dorsal bar at the terminal third. 



T.vpical ferruginea. Whole dorsum ochraceous with the usual mark- 

 ings on the dorsum of the metazona. Lateral bars broken. Caudal 

 femora with distinct bar at the terminal third. 



Typical macvlipennis. Dorsum of the closed tegmina and pronotum 

 sprinkled with blackish quadrate or subquadrate spots. Lateral bar 

 with the remains less sharply defined than in ferruginea. 



Typical texana. Dorsum suffused with blackish. Tegmina black- 

 ish with the veins dark. Caudal femora with the doreum of the 

 genicular portion black. 



The number of specimens of the total of one hundred and six which 

 appeared to be typical of these forms were: buddiana, three; ferru- 

 ginea, ten; macvlipennis, nine; texana, three, while eighty-one or over 

 seventy-five per cent, were typical of none. Of this remaining series 

 twelve share characters of buddiana, ferruginea and Jtiaculipennis, sixty- 

 six characters of ferruginea and niaculipennis and three characters of 

 maciUipennis and texana. 



When compared with three Shovel Mount, Texas, females the Ari- 

 zona females differ uniformly in the narrower fastigium, which is 

 usually more deeply excavated or at least appears to be so. When 

 the Arizona series of both sexes is examined tiiere is seen to be con- 

 siderable variation in both sexes in the width of the fastigium, irrespec- 

 tive of locality or color phase, and in the degree of constriction of the 

 lateral carina of the pronotum. Careful examination of the selected 

 typical females fails to show any difference in the facial angle, and the 

 shape of the lateral foveolac is of such variability that no reliance can be 

 placed on this cliaracter. The long type of foveola}, supposed to be 

 peculiar to the texana form, can be duplicated in specimens picked 

 haphazard from the series of tho other three types, and moreover the 

 dark texana has as much variability in the few specimens available of 

 the form as one needs to convince them of the variability of this char- 

 acter. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 38S 



From this evidence there appears but one conchision to be drawn, and 

 that is to consider the different types forms of one species, as the 

 presence of a seventy-five per cent, intermediate series leaves open to 

 us only this solution or the inost arbitrary allotment of this " mixed '^ 

 body. The latter course has nothing in its favor, as the definition of the 

 "species" would be a practical impossibility. 



The localities represented in the series at hand are Tucson, July 26, 

 four cJ*, twelve 9 ; Soiiora Road Canyon, Tucson Mountains, July 25, 

 one 9 ; near Sonora Road, southwest of Tucson Mountains, July 25, 

 seven d", five 9 ; Roeble's Ranch near Coyote Springs, July 24 and 

 25, twenty-eight 6^, forty-eight 9. Typical buddiana wa.s taken at 

 Tucson, near Sonora Road and Roeble's Ranch, /frrw{7mm at Tucson and 

 Roeble's Ranch, maculipennis at Tucson and Roeble's Ranch and 

 lexana at Tucson and near Sonora Road. 



This insect appears to be the most difficult to capture of almost an}' 

 of the desert species encountered, this being due to its remarkable 

 protective coloration and to its great swiftne.«<s in springing into the air 

 and taking flight. It was by all odds the most plentiful and widely 

 distributed desert species coUected. 



AGENEOTETTIX McNeill. 

 Ageneotettiz australis Bruner. 



An mlult male of this species was taken in Sonora Road Canyon, 

 July 25, and an immature female at Roeble's Ranch, the same date. 

 The mature specimen was captured on the rocky canyon side. 



Ageneotettiz oartipennii Bruner. 



A female specimen from Bright Angel, altitude 7,000 feet, Septem- 

 ber 11, is referred to this species. The tegmina are very short, not 

 more than one-third the length of the abdomen, and the caudal tibiae 

 have the proximal third ochraceous clouded and sprinkletl with 

 fuscous. The original locality for this species was simply "Southern 

 Colorado," and in coasequence this is the first definite record for the 

 species. 



The specimen was found on stony ground, among low plants in a 

 forest of pifion and juniper, where Amphitomus nanus was the only 

 other species of Orthoptera seen. 



AULOCABA Scudder. 

 Anlooara rufum Scudder. 



A single male of this species was taken in Sonora Road Canyon, 

 Tucson -Mountaias, July 25. 




384 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Julv, 



LIGUROTETTIX McNeilL 

 Lignrotettix kanzei Caudell. 



This extremely interesting and peculiar species is represented by a 

 series of forty-five specimens taken at Tucson, July 26 (three d*, two 

 $ ), Sonora Road near Tucson Mountains, July 25 (twelve 6", five 

 adult ? , one immature ? ), Roeble's Ranch, July 24 and 25 (eight c?, 

 one adult ? , one immature 9 ), Sentinel, Maricopa County, July 27 

 (one d^), and Yuma, July 27 (three (^ , eight ? ). 



The Yuma specimens are as large as Tucson individuals and do not 

 seem to approach the smaller Californian L. coquilletti. In size the 

 whole series is fairly uniform, some slight individual variation being 

 noticed in both sexes. Average specimens from the localities repre- 

 sented in the collection measure as follows : 



Length of Lengtli of Length of 



body. teg:nina. caudal femora. 



Tucson, 18 mm. 16.8 mm. 9.7 mm. 



Near Sonora Road. . . 16.4 " 15.2 " 9 " 



Roeble's Ranch. . . . 16.5 " 16.1 " 9 " 



Sentinel, 16 " 15.2 " 9.5 " 



Yuma, 17.5 " 16.7 " 10.2 " 



9 



Tucson, 24.2 mm. 22.4 mm. 12.5 mm. 



Near Sonora Road, . 23.5 " 21.7 " 12 " 



Roeble's Ranch. ... 22 " 20.8 " 11.7 " 



Yuma, 24.5 " 22 " 12.8 " 



In color there is a considerable amount of variation, all, however, in 

 conformity with the subdue<l color pattern of the insect. The most 

 j)eculiar variation is in the presence of blackish brown on the cephalic 

 half or more of the lateral lobes of the pronotum, and also on the pleura 

 accompanie<l by a sufTusion of the gcna?. In its conij)lcte form this 

 phase is present in but one female from Yuma, in whidi the contrast 

 with ,the pale dorsum and caudal portion of the lateral lobes is very 

 striking, although 8uggeste<i more or less strongly by a few, chiefly 

 males, from Tucson, Sonora Road and Roeble's Rancii. There is a 

 con-siderable amount of variation in the sprinkling and lining of the 

 dorsum of the pronotum and head and the tegmina with blackish brown, 

 this being, however, more noticeable in the females tlian in the males. 

 The Yuma specimens as a series and the Sentinel individual are paler 

 and more a-shy than thfXJc from the vicinity of Tucson and the I'ajjago 



I 




1908.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 385 



country, which may possibly be due to the increased aridity and 

 greater sunlight of southwestern Arizona when compared with the 

 Tucson region. The usual position of specimens on the main branches 

 of Covillca would allow reflected light to play a very important part in 

 color bleaching. 



At Roeble's Ranch and along the Sonora Road this species was 

 found chiefly on mesquite, where the insects clung tightly to the 

 twigs and trusted so far to their protective coloration that those taken 

 were cautiously approached with the hands and suddenly seized. If 

 not captured they sprang with agility to some other part of the bush 

 and often escaped completely. They stridulated frequently, a faint 

 sikk, sikk, sik-sik-sik. At Yuma the species was found on greasewood 

 {Comllca) and was extremely active and wary in spite of the frightful 

 heat. 



ARPHIA Stal. 

 Arphia teporata Scurlder. 



Three males and a female taken on rocky desert hillside in Sonora 

 Road Canyon, Tucson MountaiiLS. July 25, belong to this species. They 

 are more thickly speckleil and variegatetl with dark brown than a series 

 from Alaraogordo, New Mexico, and all are faintly washed with reddish 

 brown. 



ENCOPTOLOPHUS Scu.l.ler. 

 Enooptolophus tezenais I^runcr. 



At Tucson along the Santa Cruz River on irrigated land this species 

 was found July 20 in moderate numboi-s. Eight males and six females 

 were taken, three of the females being in a green phase of coloration, 

 as previously noted in a Phoenix specimen,* the green being on the head, 

 pronotum, dorsal face of caudal femora and to a certain extent on the 

 pleura, while another of the same sex is weakly greenish on the same 

 areas. The series exhibits an appreciable amount of variation in size, 

 particularly in the male sex. 



Enooptolophaa lubgraoilis Cauilcll. 



A single fciiKilc with rather short tegmina and wings, taken July 25 in 

 mesquite and rabbit-weetl surroundings near the Sonora Road south- 

 west of the Tucson Mountains, is apparently referable to this species. 

 The wings, however, are faintly yellowish proximad, in this respect 

 resembUng texcnsis. The meastirements of this specimen are as follows : 



» Pror. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 76. 




3S6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



Length of botly 22.7 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 4 " 



Length of tegmen, 18.3 " 



Ijength of caudal femur, 11 " 



HIPPISCUS Saussure. 

 Hippiscas corallipes (Haldeman). 



A single female of this species, taken at the east base of the Huachuca 

 Mountains, July 6, by H. A. Kaeber, has been examined. The species 

 has previously been recorded from that range by the senior author." 



DISSOSTEIRA Scudder. 

 Ditsosteira Carolina (Linnseus). 



Tlirce males and two females of this widely distributed species were 

 taken at WilUams, September 13, while a single female was taken 

 September 11 at Bright Angel, Grand Canyon, elevation of 6,850 feet. 



TOMONOTUS Saussure. 

 Tomonotns rerrnginoius Bruner. 



A pair i>f this species from Palmerlee, Huachuca Mountains, Cochise 

 County, Arizona, taken July 5 and 15 by H. Kaeber, has been examined. 

 The range of this form includes localities from Southern California to 

 Fort Grant and the Huachuca Mountains, southeastern Arizona, and 

 from Phoenix, Arizona, to Uruapan, Michoacan, Mexico. 



Tomonotas aztecaa (Saussure). 



A series of seven males and two females of this species were taken 

 July 25 near the Sonera Road, southwest of the Tucson Mountains, on a 

 flat covered with verj^ low weeds with many bare spaces between. A 

 single male was also taken the same day at lloeble's Ranch. 



METATOR McNeill. 

 Metator pardalinam (Saussure). 



A single female of this species, taken at Williams, September 13, is 

 the first Arizona record of the genus and species. The specimen has 

 the disk of the wings scarlet and is inseparable from Colorado in- 

 dividuals. It was taken in an open place thickly overgrown with 

 rabbit-we(Ml and other equally low vegetation. 



MESTOBREOMA Sciicl.ler. 

 Meitobregma oblit«rata Hruncr. 



A series of six males and ten fcmahs w;i.s taken at Williams, Septem- 

 ber 13. There is coasiderablc variation in the length of the tegiuina 



• Proc. Acad. Nal. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. .{C. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 387 



and wings in the females, while the same is true of the caudal femora. 

 The disk of the wings is lemon yellow in all the specimens and the 

 transverse bar is not distinctly marked. The caudal margin of the 

 disk and lateral lobes of the pronotum are distinctly colored with 

 yellowish in a few specimens, while the angle of the tegmina is lined 

 with the same in three specimens and with whitish in two others. 

 This species was found in the same situation as Melator pardalinum. 



TBEPIDULUS McNeill. 

 TrepiduluB rosaceus (Scudder). 



Tills very interesting species is represented by a series of twenty-nine 

 males and twelve females. The localities at which it was taken are 

 Tucson, July 26 (10 d", 9 9 ) ; near Sonora Road, July 25 (15 d", 2 9 ) ; 

 Roeble's Ranch, July 25 (3 d^, 2 9 ), and Yuma, July 28 (1 d"). In 

 size the series exhibits an appreciable amount of variation, while the 

 coloration shows all conditions of ashy washes and blackish speckling 

 and blotching, particularly on the dorsal a-spect of the closed tegmina, 

 while the base color ranges in spots from ochre to seal brown. The 

 pale ventral portion of the lateral lobes of the pronotum is, however, 

 sharply defined in ever}- individual, and the two dorsal blotch&s on the 

 caudal femora are distinct in all but one female specimen. Attention 

 should be called to the fact that the Yuma individual is uniformly 

 more grayi.sh than specimeas from the Tucson region, the maculations 

 being sub-obsolete. 



This species was found in the same restricted locality along the 

 Sonora Roatl as Tornonotus aztcciis and Trcpididus mclleoliis, where it 

 was moderately plentiful; at Yuma the single specimen encountered 

 wa-s taken on a broad flat of high weeds which had been completely 

 dric<l by the extreme heat. It was found common among desert growth 

 at Tucson, on the outskirts of the Mexican section of the town. 



Trepidulas melleolus (Scud<ler). 



Two males from the vicinity of the Sonora Road, July 25, and two 

 males and a female from Roeble's Ranch, July 25. represent this 

 interesting species. It appears from the material in hand, five males 

 and two females, that there is a great amount of individual variation 

 in size in both sexes; the two females before us, one from Roeble's 

 Ranch, the other from San liernardino Ranch, Cochi.'^e County, having 

 a considerable difference in size. The coloration is fairly constant in 

 character. 



This spei'iefl enjoys a range from northeastern New Mexico (La 

 Trementina) to Pima County, Arizona, 




388 PROCEEDIN-GS OF THE ACADEMY OF [J^^lly^ 



This striking fomi was taken on the desert plain in the two above 

 localities where it was extremely scarce, 



DEROTMEMA Scudder. 

 Derotmema laticinctum Scudder. 



On the desert plains of the Papago country this species was collected 

 in numbers, a series of seventy-one males and thirty-three females being 

 before us. It was usually found on exposed areas of adobe soil and asso- 

 ciated with Psoloessa texa na. The series is distributed as follows : Tucson, 

 July 26, twenty-seven males, eleven females (one immature) ; Sahuaro 

 slope, southwestern side of Tucson Mountains, July 24, one male; near 

 Sonora Road, southwest of Tucson Mountains, July 25, eighteen males, 

 fifteen females (two immature) ; Roeble's Ranch, July 24 and 25, 

 twenty-five males (one immature), seven females (two immature). 



This series is quite variable in the depth of coloration and in the 

 character of the maculations on the anal area of the tegmina. Some 

 specimens have three or four comparatively large blotches on this 

 portion of the t^mina, while others have the same region more or less 

 thickly sprinkled with small quadrate blotches. The fuscous bar on 

 the wing varies in intensity and considerably in extent. One speci- 

 men from Tucson has the bar very weak and of little extent. 



The specimens from the Baboquivari Mountains previously recorded by 

 the senior author as Derotmema delicatulum,^ prove on second examina- 

 tion and comparison with typical specimens of ddicatuLum to be this 

 species. The range of the species is now known to extend from the 

 west slope of the Organ Mountains of central southern New Mexico 

 to Phoenix, Maricopa County, and the Baboquivari region, Pima County, 

 Arizona. 



Derotmema delicatnlam Scudder. 



Thi.s rather remarkable species is represented by four specimens, 

 two of each sex, taken at Sentinel, Maricopa County, July 27. The 

 ver>' prominent eyes, very pale, in fact almost colorless, disk of the 

 wing and much re<luced but conspicuous and well-defined transverse 

 blotch on the wing are sufficient to enable one to remlily recognize the 

 species. The coloration is very pale, with the darker pattern well 

 defined and comparatively regular. 



The habitat of this form Ls the .Mohave and Yuma deserts, ranging 

 from the western e<lgc of the .Mohave at Mohave and Lancaster, Califor- 

 nia, to at least Sentinel, Maricopa County, Arizona. Tiie .sjjecimens 



» Ptoc. Acad. Sat. Sex. PhUa., 1907, p. 72. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 389 



listed above were collected during a train stop in a most arid and 

 desolate location. 

 Derotmema haydeni (Thomas). 



A series of five males and four females was taken at Willi anLS, Sep- 

 tember 13 (two o^, two 9 ), and Anita. September 11 (two o*, three ? ). 

 The disk of the wing is red in five specimens and yellow in four, r^ard- 

 less of locality. The series from Williams is more blackish than usual 

 in the species, while the Anita individuals are quite reddish. The 

 species has previously been recorded from Flagstaff. 



At Anita the species was common on reddish soil in an open field, 

 while at Williams it was taken in an open place heavily overgrown 

 with low vegetation. 



CONOZOA. Saussure. 

 Conozoa carinata Rehn. 



A serit':' of five males and one female taken at Tucson, July 26, repre- 

 sent this species. These specimens are somewhat paler than the types, 

 while the males have the fa.stigium verj- slightly narrower than in the 

 female type. The female specimen has liie metazona of the pronotum 

 abnormally humpetl, probably as the result of an injur}-. 



This species is now known to range from the Huachuca Mountains to 

 the Baboquivari range, north to Tuc^jon. 

 Conozoa saloifrons (Scudder). 



At Yimia this species was taken in numbers on July 26 and 27, a 

 series of twenty-one males and twenty-three females being secured. 

 When compared with a series from Grand Junction, Colorado, the 

 Yuma specimeas are seen to average considerably larger. The Yuma 

 series is as a whole more wann brown in color, with the dorsal aspect 

 of the heati, pronotum and anal field of the tegmina paler ami more 

 uniform. 



The specimens from Florence and Phcenix, Arizona, refcrrctl to C. 

 (icumiruUn with a query by the senior author' belong to this species. In 

 size they are slightly smaller than Yuma individuals of the same sex. 



This was the most plentiful species found on the dry earth of the 

 river betl and along its banks. Although an active fiyer no great 

 difficulty was experienced in capturing specimens, 



TRIMER0TR0PI8 8t41. 

 Trimerotropil fa«oieala McNeill. 



A single female of this species was collected at light at Nogalcs, 

 August 13, 1906, by Dr. Calvert. 



• Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1001, p. Hai. 




300 PROCEEDINGS OF THK ACADEMY OF [-Tulv, 



The specimens recorded by Snow^ from Oak Creek Canyon and 

 Humphreys Peak. Coconino County, Arizona, as this species prove, 

 on examination of individuals forwarded by Prof. Snow, to be T. 

 aUiciens Scudder. The two forms, however, are very closely related. 



Trimerotropis modesta Bruner. 



A female of this form taken on the rim of the Grand Canyon, near 

 Bright Angel, September 11, and a male taken at Williams, September 

 13, are in the collection. The specific validity of this form appears to 

 be rather questionable, as its relationship to T. citrina is so close that 

 it may be nothing more than a race of that species. 



Trimerotropis strenua McNeill. 



Two specimens of this species were taken at Tucson, July 26, at light. 

 When compared with Salt Lake Valley specimens they are seen to be 

 inseparable. Snow has recorded this species from San Bernardino 

 Ranch, Cochise County, Arizona. 



Trimerotropis inconspioua Bruner. 



Three males of this species taken at Bright Angel, Grand Canyon, 

 6,880 feet to 7.000 feet, are before us. Two were taken July 29 to 

 August 2, 1906, by Calvert, and one on September 11, 1907, by Hebard. 

 Two specimens are identical in coloration with the tegminal bars decid- 

 edly blackish and strongly contrasting with the pale ochraceous base 

 color, while the other specimen is decidedly reddish, both bars and 

 base color. 



This species wa.s described by Bruner from material taken at a 

 number of localities in the Grand River region of western Colorado, 

 this being the first record of the species from any locality outside of 

 that State. 



The specimen taken on September 11 wa-s the only iiulividual of the 

 species noticed and was captured in the forest of pinon and juniper. 

 Trimerotropis vinculata Scudder. 



This wide ranging species is represented by eighty-three specimens 

 taken a.s follows: Tucson, July 26, 27 cJ*, 18 ? ; Sonora Road Canyon, 

 July 25, 4 cf ; Sonora Road near Tucson Mountains, July 25, 2 9 ; 

 Roeble's Ranch, July 24 and 25, 13 (^,4 9 ; Nogalcs, August 13 (at 

 light, Calvert), 1 o"' ; Vuma, July 28, 1 6" ; Williams, September 13, 1 d* ; 

 liright Angel Trail, CJrand Canyon, elevation 3,000-7,000 feet, July 29- 

 Augu-st 2 (Calvert), Sei)teml)('r 11 and 12 (Hebard), 3 d", 9 9 . 



The specimens of the series j)rcsent a coitsiderable amount of varia- 



• Trnn». Karuat Acad. Set., XX, pt. 2, p. 37. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 391 



tion in size and the usual modifications of width and characters of 

 tegminal Ijai^s, as well as differences in the general light base color. As 

 the variability of this species is almost endless, it is hardly necessary to 

 call attention to any tj'pes except one which is suffused with ochraceoiLS- 

 rufous, represented by all the Sonora Road Canyon specimens and 

 faintly approached by one from Tucson, and a verj' dull type, repre- 

 sented by several from Bright Angel rim (7,000 feet) and the single 

 individual from Williams. Other specimens, however, from the rim 

 of the Grand Canyon at Bright Angel are of normal contrast, and one is 

 extremely contrasted with quite pale base color, 

 Trimerotropis cyaneipennis Bruner. * 



A series of sixteen males and seven females of this species was taken 

 at elevations ranging from 3,800 to 7,000 feet on and in tiic vicinity of 

 the Bright Angel Trail, Grand Canyon, September 11 and 12. The 

 majority of the specimens are strongly washed with reddish, the greater 

 portion of these reddish specimens being from elevations not exceeding 

 5,000 feet, this being evidently due to a protective color modification 

 influenced by the ro<ldi.sh exposure of that portion of the canyon walls. 

 A few individuals possess a more strongly contrasted coloration; the 

 pale color being imsuffused and the bar groups darker. These speci- 

 mens are from 5,000 and 7,000 feet. On comparing this series with 

 that in the Academy collection I find that specimens from the northern 

 ptjrtion of Arizona, south at least as far as Pre-scott, have the ilisk of 

 the wings campanula blue in color, while individuals from the ranges 

 of southeastern Arizona (Huaehucas, etc.) have the same area 

 glaucous blue. The difference is quite noticeable when the two types 

 are comparcil. This species makes at will a clatter similar to that of 

 Circotetlix verruculatus. Especially when alarmed its flight is 

 extremely swift and erratic. It was not plentiful along the canyon 

 edge, but lower on the Bright Angel Trail it was found almost every- 

 where, most plentiful, however, about bare places near precipices. 



CIRCOTETTIX Scu.l.ler. 

 Cirootettix undnlatui (Thomnc). 



A scries of seven males and nine females taken near the rim of the 

 Grand Canyon at Bright Angel represents this species. Two males 

 ami tliree females were taken .July LM> to .\ugust 2, 1000. by Calvert, and 

 the remainder September 1 1, 1007, l)y Ilebard. 



The sexes are of practically the same size, anil the amount of indi- 

 vidual variation of the same charact<'r is sligjjt in a series of thirty-si.x 

 specimens before iis. The general color varies from a decidedly 

 blackish type to one distinctly dull reddish brown in general tone. 




392 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July> 



The previous Arizona records of this species were from Oak Creek 

 Canyon ami base of Humphrey's Peak, Coconino County. 



This form was not uncommon in the open yellow pine groves near 

 the hotel, while in other places it was very scarce. Individuals of this 

 species seem to be unable to fly without clattering. In the afternoons 

 it was not on the wing. 



HADEOTETTIX Scudder. 

 Hadrotettix trifasciatns (Say). 



A single male of this species, collected by H. A. Kaeber, Juh" 6, 1907, 

 on the plains at the mouth of Ramsay Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, 

 has been examined, 



ANCONIA Scudder. 

 Anconia Integra Scudder. 



At both Tucson and Yuma this species was encoimtered, five males 

 and two females having been taken at the former locality on July 26 

 and twenty males and two females at the latter on July 27 and 28. In 

 size there is an appreciable amount of variation in the male sex, the 

 four females being quite uniform. All the females and four of the 

 Tucson males are green; all the Yuma males and one Tucson male 

 are hoary white or pale ochraceous more or less thickly overlaid with 

 maculations of olive. Several of the brownish specimens are very pale 

 and but faintly maculate, while five are strongly marked, having the 

 pronotal decussate markings pronounced. The other brownish males 

 are more or less intermediate between the two extreme types. 



Tucson is the most eastern record for this species, the previoasly 

 publisho<l Arizona records being from Phoenix and Bill William's Fork, 



At Tucson tills species was taken among high weeds both in damp 

 and dry locations. They were very wary and alert and when missed 

 flew for some considpral)lc distance. A preference to alighting on 

 the ground when pursued rather than on weeds and bushes was ob- 

 served, though invariably first discovered among vegetation. At Yuma 

 it was found on the greasewood covered sand flats. 



HELIA8TU8 Saus.sure. 

 Heliaitai aridai (Uruncr). 



This extremely variable species is represented by specimens taken at 

 Tucson (July 26, 3 9 ), Sonora Road Canyon (July 25, 2 d", 1 9, 

 1 nymph), Sonora Road near Tucson Mountains (July 25, 1 9 ) and 

 Rwble's Ranch (July 24, 1 d*, 1 9 ), There is a great diversity in the 

 size of the Tucson females, while the coloration is of the usual vari- 




1908.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPmA. 393 



ability. The three individuals from the Sonora Road Canj'on are 

 distinctly suffused with reddish, the males very strongly so, while the 

 Tucson and Roeble's Ranch specimens have hoary white their most 

 conspicuous color tone. The Sonora Road specimen has as its general 

 tint the peculiar blue gray often seen in this species. 



This form was found to be a t^-pical desert species, not noticed any- 

 where in nutnbers. 



PHRYNOTETTIX Uhler. 

 Phrynotettix magnus (Thomas). 



A pair of this species takcMi July 6 by H. A. Kaeber at Palmerlee and 

 an immature male taken in Sonora Road Canyon, Tucson Mountains, 

 July 25, have been examined. 



The Palmerlee male is labelled "Found under manure." The 

 Sonora Road Canyon specimen was found on a rocky hillside. 



SCHISTOCERCA St&l. 

 Schistocerca vaga (ScudJer). 



At Tucson four males and two females of this species were collected 

 July 26. One female is quite dark in color vnth strongly contrasted 

 pattern; the other of the same sex shows little contrast and is pale 

 dull brownish. The specimens were found among wild sunflowers and 

 other high plants. In this situation individuals were taken with far 

 greater ease than othere previously seen on the desert. 

 Sohistoceroa venasta ScudJer. 



A male and two females taken at Yuma, July 27 and 2S, and a male 

 taken at Winslow, Xavajo County, September 13, represent this 

 species. The Winslow specimen is nK)re olive and less greenish than 

 the Yuma individuals. 



At Yuma a few specimens were seen in the dry stand of arrow-wood 

 on the banks of the Clila River. The species was very i)lentiful at 

 Winslow, in tall weeds about a water tank. 



CONALCEA Scudder. 

 Conalonea huachuoana Hpiin. 



A female of tliis species, collected at Palmerlee July G l)y Kaeber, has 

 been examined. 



HESPEROTETTIX Scud.icr. 

 Heiperotettix fettiTQi Scud. lor. 



A series of twenty-two males, twelve females and one nymph 

 repn^cnts thi.s ,^pecies. The localities are: Tucson, July 26, 1 d', 1 9 ; 

 Saiiuaro slope, southwest of Tucson Moimtains, July 24, 1 cf; Sonora 




394 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



Road near Tucson Mountains, July 25, 13 c?, 9 9,1 nymph; Roeble's 

 Ranch, July 25, 1 9 ; Williams, September 13, 1 c?, 1 9 . 



In size but little variation is noticeable; the tegmina of the two 

 "Williams specimens, however, do not exceed the tips of the caudal 

 femora. Five specimens from Sonora Road are decidedly brownish, 

 one strongly so, while all the others are shades of green, in a few cases 

 with a faint bluish tinge to the tegmina. Reddish pregenicular 

 annuli are indicated more or less strongly on the caudal femora of all 

 but three specimens, which latter are either in or approach the brown- 

 ish phase. The pale medio-longitudinal line on the pronotum is nar- 

 rower in the Williams specimens than in a number of individuals from 

 southern Arizona. 



This insect was one of the few species which was invariably found 

 on or near rabbit- weed. In the rabbit-weed tracts a number of speci- 

 mens were often found in one small clump of the weed. Relying on 

 its prot€Ctive coloration the insect often sought shelter in the center of 

 the clump, but when frightened out of its retreat flew very swiftly 

 on almost all occasions to another bunch of the same plant. 



5:0L0PLTJS Scudder. 

 JEoloplns tenoipennis Scudder. 



At Tucson this species was found in weeds growing along an irrigat- 

 ing ditch and a series of six males and three females was taken on July 

 26, while at Yuma a single male was coUectal on July 27. While 

 agreeing with the original description in all essential points the Tucson 

 individuals are decidedly larger than the type. The extremes of the 

 series measure as follows : 



Ivcngth of body, 17 -18.3 mm. 17 -19.3 mm. 



Ivcngth of pronotum, ... 4 - 4.5 " 4 - 4.9 " 



Ivength of tegmen, .... 15.5-19 " 15.5-17.2" 

 Ixjngth of caudal femur, . . 9.5-10.2 " 9.8-11.2 " 



In color there is an appreciable amount of variation in the depth of 

 the bars and maculations, the specimens with the base color dull ochre 

 having the pattern more marked, while those with the same more 

 yellowish have the pattern weaker. The pink of the i)roximal two- 

 thirds of the caudal tibirc varies greatly in depth of color, being very 

 delicate shell j)ink in some specimens and solferino in othei"s with inter- 

 mcfliatcs of various shades. 



This species was descril)ed from lort (Inuit, (Jrahani County, Ari- 

 zona, and has since been recorded from Bill William's lork, western 

 Arizona, 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 395 



A single female in the Academy Collection was taken at PhoDiiix 

 (October 4, 1900;Kunze). 

 JEoloplas arizonensis Scudder. 



In the vicinity of Yuma this species was not uncommon, a series of 

 seven males, fifteen females and one nymph being taken July 27 and 28. 

 Among the high dry weeds on the flood plain of the Gila River fourteen 

 specimens were taken and a number of others seen; one specimen was 

 captured on the summit of a desert hill, one in cultivated alfalfa and 

 seven were taken at night under arc lights. 



There is a perceptible amount of variation in size, the length of the 

 tegmina being quite variable; no specimens, however, having these 

 members shorter than the type measurements, while the greater 

 majority have them much longer. The remarks made under JEoloplus 

 tenuipcnnis regarding color variation apply as well to this species, 

 though the paler specimeas have the tegmina distinctly light grayish, 

 while in one specimen the pale color on the head and pronotum is 

 almost whitish. 



This species has been recorded from Fort ^Vliipple, Yavapai County, 

 Arizona, and the Mohave Desert. 



MELAN0PLU8 St&l. 

 Melanoplus flabellifer ScudJcr. 



A series of six males and seven females of this species was taken at 

 Williams, September 13. All are typical of flabellifer, showing little or 

 no tendency toward occidcntalis or cuncatus. The coloration is quite 

 dark, the pattern much subdued. There is some variation in the 

 depth of the glaucous color of the caudal tibiae. This is the first 

 record of the species from Arizona. 



All of these specimens were taken in a field «>f low vegetation. The 

 iasects were inactive as the dew was yet on the ground. The condi- 

 tion of a number of the specimens shows that their season was well 

 mlvanced. 

 Melanoplus herbaoeus flaveioens Scudder. 



Two mules of this form were taken at Yuma on July 28, one on 

 cultivated ground, the other on desert growth. 



The only previous record of this form from Arizona was from Bill 

 William's F(jrk, .Mohave-Yuma County, specimens from Phcrnix being 

 intermediate Ix'tweon hcrbaceus and flavescrns. 

 Melanoplus brownii (iiudrll. 



This species was abundant locally at Tucson, where a series of 

 twelve males and nineteen feniales were taken on Julv 20. In size 




396 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



there is an appreciable amount of individual variation, the extremes 

 of the series measurino: as follows : 



Length of body, . 

 Length of tegmen, . 

 Leng:th of caudal femur, . 



The coloration is quite luiiform, only a few specimens being more 

 richly colored than the others, the caudal femora, however, being 

 some shade of glaucous in all the series instead of "j-ellowish bro^^•n" 

 as originally described. 



The female specimen recorded by Rehn as M. canonicusl from 

 Florence, Arizona,'" and those of the same sex from the Huachuca range 

 recorded by him as M. favidus^^ are referable to this species. The 

 absence of accompanjnng males was responsible for the erroneous 

 identifications. The Florence individual has since been compared 

 with the types of brownii. 



The range of this species now extends from Yuma up the Gila Valley 

 to PhcEnix and Florence, southward to Tucson, the Baboquivari and 

 Huachuca Mountains. 



The species was found at Tucson, frequenting high weeds near water 

 and cultivated areas. 

 Melaneplas atlanis (Riley). 



A male and two females represent this widely distributed species, the 

 localities ]>eing "Williams, September 13 (c5^), Tucson, July 26 ( ? ), and 

 Sonora Road near Tucson Mountains, July 25 (9 ). These specimens are 

 distinctly larger than eastern individuals of the species, a fact previously 

 noted by Rehn'* in regard to Florence and Phoenix, Arizona, repre- 

 sentatives. The Sonora Road specimen has the coloration strongly 

 contrasted. 

 Melanoplus aridui (Scuil<lor). 



A veiy interesting series of tiiis species was taken at localities in 

 northern Arizona, a region from which it was previously not reported. 

 Nine specimeas from Williams, September 13, five mules, four females, 

 average about equal in size to individuals from Florence, Arizona, and 

 are distinctly smaller than Scudder's measurements. Three males 

 and one female taken at Anita, Sei)teml)er 11, sjiow a further reduc- 

 tion in size, wliilcfe scries of fourteen males and eleven females from 



>• Pror. Arnd. Nnt. Sci. Phila., 1904, p. 572. 



'»//yw/., HK)7, p. .Vl. 



" PriK. Acad. Sat. Sex. Phila., 19()7, p. 78. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 397 



the rim of the Grand Canyon at Brifjlit Anp:el, September 11, are very 

 decidedly smaller than Scudder's measurements, some specimens 

 being hardly more than half the size given by him. The senior author 

 recently calle<l attention" to the size variability of this species, citing 

 Huachuca Mountain individuals larger than the original measure- 

 ments. 



The coloration of the Grand Canyon series .shows little yellowish, 

 having grays and gray-browns pretlominating, while the Anita and Wil- 

 liams specimens are somewhat brighter, though by no means as strik- 

 ingly colored as Florence, Arizona, individuals. The yellow of the 

 ventral surface is pure in some specimens and much soilerl and washefl 

 with red brown in others. 



At Williams and Anita this species was extremely common in the 

 grassy open glades of the pine forest, while at Grand Canyon it was the 

 most abundant species of Orthoptcra and was foimd everJ'^vhere in the 

 undergrowth of the heavier pine woods. It was noted to be a very 

 swift jumper, but a series was easily taken on account of its abundance. 

 Melanoplus femur-nigrum Scud'ier. 



This Uttle known species is represented by a series of two males and 

 three females taken Septeml)er 11 at the rim of the Grand Canyon at 

 Bright Angel. Here it was taken on an open hillside heavily over- 

 grown with a plant resembling rabbit-wee<i. 



The only previous record of this species is the original one from 

 San Francisco Mountains, July 30, but its range is more extensive as 

 witnessed by a female in the Academy Collection labelle<l "Albu- 

 querque, X. Mex., July 13, Dslar." It is quite probable that this 

 specimen was taken in the moimtains near Albuquerque, as it is hardly 

 likely to occur in the distinctly Sonoran vicinity of the city. 



Melanoplui femur-rnbrum (DcGccr). 



A mule oi tliis species was taken at Winslow, Navajo County, -1,84^; 

 feet elevation, September 13, 

 Melanoplus oanonioui Scuildcr. 



A series of two mal(^ and seven females, taken September 12 along 

 or near the Bright Angel Trail, (Jrand Canyon, represent this species. 

 These specimens were taken at altitudes ranging from 4,850 to O.SOO 

 feet, one female alone being from above an elevation of 5,800 feet. 

 The species was found only in scatteretl growths of \nh(m and juniper, 

 exhibiting a preference for the latter tree. Specimeas were found 

 on the ground, in buahea and clinging to the twigs of juniper. 



" Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phtla., 19()7, p. .'il. 

 26 




308 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF U^^^Y, 



In size there is considerable variation in the series, all being smaller 

 than Scudder's original measurements. The extremes of the series in 

 hand are as follows : 



Length of body, ... 17 mm. 20.2 mm." 22.5 mm. 27 imii. 

 Length of tegmen, . . 15 " 13.8 " 15.8 " 18.2 " 

 Length of caudal femur. 10.5 " 9.8 " 11.5 '^ 13.4 " 



The distal portion of the furcula varies in the two males, being rather 

 slender in one and comparatively thick in the other. 



The majority of the specimens are strongly overcast with brownish, 

 sometimes with a decided olivaceous tinge, only one specimen being 

 "luteo-testaceous" as originally described. 



In addition to the original record from the Grand Canyon, this 

 species has been recorded from Bill William's Fork by Rehn and from 

 Tucson by Snow. 



DACTYLOTUM Charpentier. 

 Dactylotum variegatam Scudder. 



A male and two females of this species, taken July 6 on the plains at 

 the east base of the Huachuca Mountains b}^ H. Kaeber, have been 

 examined. 



TETTIGONID^. 

 ARETHSIA St&l. 

 Arethaea sellata Rehn. 



A male of this species, taken at Palmerlee, Huachuca Mountains, July 

 15, by 11. A. Kaeber, has been examined. 



SCUDDERIA St&l. 

 Scudderia furcifera Scudder. 



This species h represented by a male taken at Palmerlee, Huachuca 

 Mountains, July 6, by H. A. Kaeber. 



MICROCENTRUM" Scudder. 

 Miorooentram rhombifolia'* (Saussuro). 



A .single female of this species wa.s taken at light at Nogale-s, August 

 13, 190G, by Calvert. 



" Abnormally distended. 



'* Kirby (.S'ynon. Calal. Orth., IT, pp. I')."), ISO) \\i\n ImiLsforred this Kcneric 

 nnmc U) tlui Kf-'""'^ u.sujiily known .-ls Slilpuorhlorn Slnl, ami in its placn; for 

 Mirrnrentrum of .intliors u.mcs Orajihun Saii.s.siirc, IS.W. For tlii' type of tliu latter 

 ho sclcrtH relinerris MiirineiHter (Hnlinfolia Siiu.s.surr), fli-srcRaniinK thi; fact thnt 

 Rehn (Proc. Acad. Xal. Sci. Phila., nM)5, p. HOS, Marcli, 1!K)()) sonio inonth.s 

 previously hjul selected mexicanua as the type of Orophus. In selecting Ji tyj)e 




1908. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



399 



GRYLLID^. 

 NEMOBIUS ServiUe. 

 NemobiuB neomexicanui Scudder. 



' This species was taken at light at Tucson (July 23, 1 9 ) and Yuma 

 (July 27 and 28, 3 ? ) and was decidedly scarce wherever it was 

 encountered. The Tucson specimen is appreciably larger than the 

 Yuma individuals. 



GKYLLUS LinnsBua. 

 Gryllus personatus LTiler. 



At Tucson this species came to light in great numbers the evenings 

 of July 23 and 26, a series of twenty males and eighteen females being 

 collected. 



Size as usual exhibits a considerable range of variation, while several 

 males are of a strongh' megacephalic type. 



As the proportions of the c-audal femora and ovipositors and the 

 measurements of the tegmina may prove of use to future workers, they 

 are tabled below. 



Proportions of caudal femur and ovipositor in eighteen females from 



Tucson. 



Ovipositor. 



for Mirrorentmm Scudder, Kirbv has been confused I)y the synonymy of the 

 Hpecies and s«'lorted Slcirodon thoracicua Serville as the typ<', which was not 

 inchided in Micromilrum by Scnddcr; tlio hitter's Mirrorcnirum thnracicum 

 having been proposed independently, not beinR the same as Mor<iriVii.s .S-rville or 

 thomrica lUirnnistcr. Thi.s i.s shown l)y Kirby in hi.s arranpeniint of the syn- 

 onymy; but in HilcctinK his type he has overh)oked it. In rnn.sefnience it is 

 n<•^e8.^ary to nelcct jis the type of M irroccntrum a upecicM orijrinally inchided in 

 the RenUM and alJiliatuni Scudder (— rfiortibi folia San.ssurr) i.s so t«'lc<te<l. This 

 in in accordance with .Article 3() of the Revised International I'ode of .N'omen- 

 <hiture. 



" This name must be used in place of lauri/oltum of authors; laurifolium of 

 birmjrua, as sliowii by Ivirby (Synon. Catal. Orth., II, p. 450), being a Stiljmo- 

 < lilora. 




400 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [J"ly> 



Measurements of caudal femur, legmen and ovipositor. 

 Females {eighteen specimens). 



Males (twenty specimens). 



Tegmen. 

 12 mm. (1) 



The entire series of thirty-eight specimens is macropterous. 



There is con.'^idcrablc variation in tlio depth of the coloration, some 



individual.s having the head so much sufTused with l)l;i('kisli tliat the 



usual pale occipital hues are not visible. 



Gryllai armatos Scu<l<ler. 



This species came to light al)undantly at Yuma on the evenings of 

 July 27 and 28, a .series of nine males and forty-five females being 

 collectc<i. A pair were alsf) taken at Tucson, July 26, under the same 

 conditioas. All the specimens collected are macropterous. 



To assist future workers in this difficult genus measurements taken 

 from the Yuma series are here given. 




1908.] 



NATUR.VL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



401 



Proportions of caudal femur and ovipositor in forty-five Yuma females. 



Ovipositor. 



While the head is blackish in all the specimens, the pronotum is 

 frecjuently quite reddi.sh, in some individuals entirely so, which latter 

 type is connected with that having the pronotum solid blackish by a 

 considerable number of intermediates. 



It was astonishing to note the numbers in which this species came to 

 the arc lights, hundrcils of them running about on the ground beneath 

 the lights or flying swiftly around in circles. 



MIOORYLLUS SauMure. 

 Miogryllai piotas Scuddcr. 



At Yuma on the evenings of July 27 and 28 this species frequented the 



vicinity of the electric lights in considerable numbers. A scries of 




402 " "^ PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [J^b'j 



fourteen males and sixteen adult and one immature female was taken. 

 There is an appreciable but not very great variation in the size of 

 individuals of this species, while the coloration ^•aries only in the 

 suffusion of the pronotal markings; some specimens having them 

 distinct and others having them clouded with a wash of the darker 

 color. The males without exception have the pronotum dark and 

 the pattern not apparent. 



This species was more agile than Gryllus armatus, with which it was 

 associated. 



(ECANTHUS ServiUe. 

 OEcanthus nivens (DeGeer). 



A single male of this species was taken near Bright Angel Trail, 

 Grand Canyon, at an elevation of about 4,900 feet, September 12. 

 It was taken from a weed resembUng rabbit-weed in the piiion zone. 



(Ecanthus nigricornis Walker. 



A single male from the rim of the Grand Canyon at Bright Angel, 

 September 11, is referred tentatively to this species. The antennal 

 markings are not as complex as usual in the species, but the propor- 

 tions and general coloration are nearly typical. The individual was 

 captured stridulating at night on the species of weed referred to under 

 CE. niveus. 



(Eoanthns qnadripunctatas Beutenmuller. 



Four specimens taken at Tucson, July 23-26, are referred to this 

 species, one male, a female, attracted to light, and two immature 

 individuals. 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 403 



HOTES ON THE DISTEIBUTION OF COLORADO MAMMALS. WITH A DESCRIPTION 

 OF A NEW SPECIES OF BAT (EPTESICUS PALLIDUS; FROM BOULDER. 



BY ROBERT T. YOUNG. 



In the following article I propose (1) to discuss briefly the distribu- 

 tion of the mammals of the mountains of northern central Colorado 

 in their relation to the life zonas of that region ;* (2) to point out the 

 apparent movement of some species relative to their centers of dispersal 

 and to give a few facts regarding the little known distribution of 

 certain forms in this State, and (3) to descril)c a new species of bat 

 from Boulder. 



(1) Distribution of mammals relative to the life zones of northern 

 central Coloraflo. 



In two recent papers by Ramaley' and myself^ the life zones of the 

 Rocky Mountains in this region, as detennine<l by the flora, have been 

 mapped out. Does the mammalian fauna of the mountains show the 

 same zonation as docs the flora? 



The zones as outlined by Ramaley are as follows : 



1 . Plains Zone, below 5,800 feet. 



2. Foothill Zone, from 5^800 to 8,000 feet. 



3. Montane Zone, from 8,000 to 10,000 feet. 



4. Sub-alpine Zone, from 10,000 to 1 1,500 feot. 



5. Alpine Zone, from 11,500 to 14.000 feet. 



The first of these not being a mountain zone may bo omitted from 

 our discussion. The last four correspond to the zones which I, in 

 accordance with the terminology of Merriam* and others, have specified 

 a.^ Transition 1,650-2.400 m.. Canadian 2,400-2,860 m., Hudsonian 

 2,850-3,:i(M) m. and Alpine^ 3,300-3,450 m.« 



' Wnierc tlie records for any sp^'ciea number very few, I have usually omitte<l 

 smli HiK'tics from this part ol niv di.scus.sion. 



' Plant Zones in the Rocky Mountains of Colorado Science, N*. S. Vol. XXVI 

 PI>. (M2-.3. 



' Forest Formations of lioulder County, Colorado, liot. Gat., \o\. XLI\' pp. 

 321-52. 



♦ Life Z<mo9 and Crop Zones of the United States, Bull. 10, V S. Hiolopical 

 Survey. 



' Mcrriam applies the term Arctic-.Mpine to this zone. 



• Hanialey'H terniinolnpj', an applied to this partirtilar repion. is perliap.s more 

 desirahli- than that of .Mcrrinm; hut for purjM)se« of <<imparison with other regiona, 

 and for the Make «(f uniformity, I nnicli prefer the latter. 




404 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF ['Tuly, 



Wliile it is well known that an absolute delimitation of zonal areas in 

 mountain regions is impossible, whether plants or animals are chosen as 

 characteristics, still the zones as outlined above are fairly well defined 

 by their plant inhabitants. 



Of the mountain manunals of northern Colorado many range widely 

 from timber line to the plains, and, with a few exceptions, there are 

 none whose range is closely coincident with an}' one of the zones men- 

 tioned above. These exceptions are the following: Sciurus aberii 

 concolor, Citellus variegatus grammurus, Citellus e^egans, Cynomys 

 leucurus, Peromyscus truei nasiitus, Ncotoma fallax, and Spilogale tenuis 

 in the Transition zone; and Lepus americanus bairdi, Ocholona saxatilis 

 and Phenacomys preblei in the Hudsonian zone. 



The Canadian zone possesses no characteristic mammals. Species 

 ranging through both Hudsonian and Canadian zones, but mainly 

 restricted to them, are the following: Evotomys gapperi galei, Microtus 

 vanus, Gulo luscus. Mustcla americana, Putnrius streatori leptus and 

 PiUorius arizonensis. 



Boreal species which include the Transition zone within their range 

 are as follows: Cervus canadensis, Oris canadensis, Sciurus fremonti, 

 Eutamias amcenus operarius, Eutamias minimus cojisobrinus,'' Callo- 

 spermophiliis lateralis, Marmota flainvetiter, Neotoma orolestes, Microtus 

 mordax, Thomomys jossor, Thomomys clusius fuscus, Zapus princeps, 

 Erethizon epixanthus, Sylvilagus pinetis,^ Fciis hippolestcs. Lynx xiinta, 

 Ursus americanus, Sorex obscurus, Sorcx personatiis, and Neosorex 

 pnlustris navigator. Viilpcs macrourus should probably be included in 

 this list, but as to its altitudinal limits I have no definite information. 

 Sonoran species extending into the Transition zone are the following: 

 Odocoileus macrourus, Antilocapra americana. Mephitis mesomelas 

 vnrians and Pulorius longicauda. 



Of general distribution through both Sonoran and Boreal regions may 

 be mentioncil the following species: Odocoileus liemionus. Bison biso7i,' 

 Eutamias guadrivittatus, Citellus tridecemJ incut us pallidus, Castor cana- 

 densis fondator, Peromyscus nebracensis, Peromyscus nifinus, Microtus 

 pcnnsylvanicus modestus, Lcpus ca7npcstris, Lrpus tinrnscndi, Canis sp.,'° 

 Taiidea taxus, Lutreola lutreocepluila cnergumcnos and Putorius nigripes. 

 Both the wild cat and timber wolf ought probably to be included under 



^ Extends into the Sonoran. 



• .VUo S<nioran to some extent. J li.ivc tukni it 12 km. eitst of Boulder on tiic 

 lint liarren plainfl. 



* .\ow prnetieully extinet. 



'"The di.'itribulion of tlie different forms of coyotes through tin- niouiit.-iins is 

 not vet known. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 405 



tilis last lieading. I have omitted them, however, becau.'^c I have no 

 information as to the species of each, and but Uttle as to their distribu- 

 tion. 



Thus we liiid the Alpine zone with no characteristic mammals, the 

 Hudsonian with three, the'Canadian with none and the Transition with 

 seven, while there are six Boreal species (Cervus occidentalis, Eulamais 

 m. consobrinus, Thomomys clusius juscus, Thomnmys fnssor, Sylinlagus 

 pinetis and Ncosorcx palustris navigator) and one Sonoran-Boreal form 

 {Eutamias quadrivittatus) which probably do not extend much above 

 the Canadian zone, and six which seldom if ever extend below it. In 

 addition to the seven species characteristic of the Transition zone, we 

 find this zone forming the lower limit of eighteen Boreal species and 

 the upper limit of four Sonoran forms. 



While the .\lpine zone posse.sses many characteristic plants, on the 

 mannnalian side it is characterized chiefly by the paucity of its fauna, 

 possessing not a single characteristic species. The Hudsonian and 

 Canadian zones have most of their mammals in conmion, while of the 

 three species characteristic of the former zone, Ochotona saxa/iYts" in- 

 vades the latter to some extent, while on the other hand it occurs in 

 the Alpine zone in suitable places. 



These facts bring out very clearly, I believe, the distinctness of 

 Boreal and Sonoran regions in northern Colorado, as based on the 

 distribution of the manunals in this territory. The Transition zone 

 is, as its name implies, a meeting ground of these two great regions, 

 common to, and yet distinct from each. They show further the inti- 

 mate relation between Hudsonian and Canadian zones. Using the 

 mammals only as a criterion, I hardly believe we should bo justifie<l in 

 separating thoi^e zones from each other; their characteristics are rela- 

 tively much fewer than among the plants. 



(2) The movement of some species relative to their centers of tlis- 

 persal and notes on the Uttle known distribution of certain forms. 



The occurrence of a species outside its proper habitat docs not 

 necessarily prove a migration on the part of that species from such 

 hal)itat. It may, on the contrar}', mean that the speci(>s formerly 

 hiu\ a more widcsprea<l distribution than at present, i>ecoming second- 

 arily restrictc<l to its present habitat, with the exception of a few strag- 

 glers remaining in the territory formerly occupitHl by it. This is a 

 (juestion which cannot, in moat cases, be settled with our present lack 



" Warron, E. \i.: Tim Mjunmnls of Colorado, Colorado College PuhlicatioM, 

 S<iriic«' Sfrii-w. .No. Wt, p. '2'}\, iiuMitimiH the votwy m occurring ua low ua 2,S34 ni. 

 iH-iir ('n-}jtc<l Huttc. 




406 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [J"ly, 



of data rcparfling the former abundance of the species in the region in 

 question. AMiere, however, a typical plains form, as Putorius nign'pcs 

 or CUellus tridecemUneatus paUidus, is found in the higher moimtains, 

 I believe we are justified in concluding that they have migrated 

 outside of their proper habitat. 



Sciaras ladovioianns. 



This .species is now quite common in the neighborhood of Greeley, 

 where I understand it has been introduced from Omaha. It is also 

 present hi Denver. 



Citellua trideoemlineatas pallidas. 



The presence of this spermophile at Divide," altitude 3,000 m., and 

 elsewhere in the mountains," indicates a westward and upward move- 

 ment of this species from its center in the Great Plains, probably de- 

 pendent upon the presence of its physical habitat, the grass-sage- 

 brush plains in some parts of the mountains, rather than upon 

 temperature. 



Peromyscus nebracensis- 



This is another plains form of Upper Sonoran and Transition zones 

 which appears to be invading the mountains, judging by its occurrence 

 at an altitude of 3,508 m.'^ and elsewhere through the mountains. 



Phenacomys preblei. 



The only record hitherto of this species is that given by Merriam" 

 from Long's Peak. I have taken a single specimen on North Boulder 

 Creek at about 2,900 m. altitude. This is the only specimen I have 

 secured in spite of careful trapping in several places. 



Spilogale tenaii. 



I have taken a few of this species at Boulder, hitherto known only 

 from Arkias and Estcs Park. 



Fatorioa nigripei- 



The occun-ence of the black-footed ferret at an altitude of 3,124 in.'** 

 indicates a probable migration on its part from its habitat on the plains 

 into the mountains. 



" Fide Warrr-n (op. cit., p. 212). 



" Hailov, V: Tho Prairie CJround Squirrels of the MissLssippi Valley, Bull. J, 

 U. S. liinl. Survey, givew its western limits as appro-ximatcly Twin Lakes. 



'• Fidf Warren (op. cit., p. 21.0). 



'* .Merriarn, C. II.: PheruiromyM prehlei, a New Vole from tin- .Mdiint.'iins «»f 

 Colorn<io, I'ror. liiol. Sor. WuHh., Vol. XI, p. 4.5. 



'• Fide Warren (op. cit., p. 261). 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 407 



Patorius longicaada. 



This wea.'^cl invades the mountains also to some extent, as I have 

 observed it in Boulder Canyon several miles above its mouth. 



Sorex personatng. 



The occurrence of this 'shrew in the Rocky Mountains as far 

 south as Colorado extends considerably southward in these mountains 

 the range of this northern and eastern form. Its presence in the 

 meadows about Boulder brings this Boreal species down to the edge of 

 the Upper Sonoran zone. 



Sorex personatas haydeni. 



Warren'^ records a specimen of this shrew taken by him at Lake 

 Moraine and identified by Meiriam. Inasmuch as haydeni is a North 

 Dakota plains form its occurrence in the Hudsonian zone on Pike's 

 Peak is certainly interesting. Have we here a marked case of migra- 

 tion, a case of polygenesis, or is haydeni, as Elliott'* believes, a.synonyni 

 for personatusl 

 Sorex vag^ans dobsoni. 



This is another interesting record given by Warren'-' and based on 

 an identification by Merriam. InN.A. Fauna, No. 10, p. 68, the latter 

 gives the distribution of this shrew a.s parts of Idaho, Montana, Wyo 

 ming and Utah. He says further in the same place: "The interrela- 

 tions of dobsoni and obscurus arc intricate and perplexing. The two 

 animals resemble one another very clo.sely, but no intcrgradcs have 

 been found, and each has, so far as known, an independent distri- 

 bution." This record extends the range of dobsoni considerably 

 southward, making it coincident, at this point at least, with that of 

 obscurus. 



Sorex obsoarus. 



Merriam" gives the distribution of this species as "Restricted to 

 Boreal Zr)nc." Specimens collected l)y mo at Boulder extend its range 

 through the Transition zone. 



Corynorhinus maorotit pallesceni. 



I have a specimen taken in Boulder Canyon at an approximate 

 altitude of 2,300 m., which shows an occa.sional invasion of the Transi- 

 tion zone by this supposedly Sonoran species. 



" Op. cit., p. 265. 



" Elliott l). G.: A Synopsis of tlie Muinmuls of North .Vmrrica lujd the .\dja- 

 cciit SetiH, Field Columbian Musnttu, Zool. S<t., II, l'.M)l, p. 'Mu. 

 '*()p. cit., p. Jfir.. 

 " Up. cit., p. 72. 




40S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [J^lH'* 



Myotis lucifugns longicrus. 



The only Colorado record of this bat which I liave found is one 

 by Millei-* for Grand Junction. I have taken it at Steamboat Springs, 

 and liave a badly mutilated skin from Eldora which is probably one of 

 tiiis species. 



Myotis evotis. 



The only Colorado record I have seen is one bj' ]\Iiller^^ from Loveland. 

 I have a specimen taken in the Yellow Jacket Mountains 21 km. east 

 of Steamboat Springs at an approximate altitude of 2,140 m. 



(3) Description of a new species of bat from Boulder. 



Eptesicns pallidus ^p. n. 



Type No. 142,526 2 ad., collection of U. S. Nat. Mus. Collected 

 by R. T. Young at BoiUder, Colorado, July 22, 1903. 



Distribution. — Known from type locality only. 



Diagnosis. — Skull identical with that of Eptesicus fuscus. Size 

 largest of American species of the genus. (Average total length of 

 four specimens, all females, 124.)-^ 



Color palest of American species of the genus, distinctly lighter than 

 that of E. fuscus. 



Color. — Above brownish ashy, the basal half of hairs fuscous; 

 below pale silvery gray, the basal half of hail's fuscous, with a narrow 

 transition zone of brownish ashy between the inner and outer parts. 

 Doi-sally and ventrally along the line of attachment, and on the surfaces 

 of the membranes, the basal fuscous zone of the hairs disappeai's. 



Measurements of Type. — Total length, 127; tail, 50; hind foot, 12. 

 Skull, occipitf)-nasal length, 19; interorljital constriction, 4; zygomatic 

 breadth, 13; uj>pcr tooth row, 8.5; palato-ba.'^i-occipital length, 15; 

 mandible (from condyle to symphysis), 14; lower tooth row, 9. 



Measurements (average of four females). — Total lengtli, 124; tail, 

 49; hind foot, 12.^* Average of two females in alcoiiol: Ear from 

 crown, 13.5; tibia, 20.5; forearm, 49; thumb, 8; longest "finger," 80.5,-" 

 width of ear, 11.5; tragus (from posterior angle), 8. Skull (average of 

 threcspecimen.s),2« 18.5, 4, 12.5," S, 14.5, 13.5, 9. 



Remarks. — While conclusioiLs based on so small a number of speci- 

 mens as I possess are necessarily uncertain, still I believe that, since 



" Miller, G. S., Jr.: Hovinion of the North .\niori(jm Mais of tho Family Vesper- 

 tilionidic, A'. A. Fauna, 13, p. 0.5. 

 " Ov. cit., p. SO. 

 " .\\\ m«-a«urernent8 in mm. 

 '* AvcraRf of five Hpecim«-nH in<Iii<iinK one male. 

 " rrom tip to biwc of pIiulariKcs not iiiclndiiiK carpus, 

 " Mcaaurrmcnta given in Hami- order a.s tlio.sc of tlic type. 

 *' Average of two specimens. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 409 



specimeas of Eptcsicus ftiscus from this region-' have the color and size 

 typical of the species, the new form must be considered as a distinct 

 species and not merely a geographical race of fuscus. 



The probable origin of this species is a matter of some interest. 

 Occurring in the same territorj' and occupying the same habitat as 

 its near relative fuscus, neither the geographic isolation nor selection 

 theory seem to offer a satisfactory explanation. Neither the mutation 

 nor orthogenesis theorj' finds any difficulty in these facts. Moreover we 

 have here an apparent exception to Jordan's law of geminate species. 



Further information as to the distribution of this species is very 

 desirable.^ 



In conclusion I wish to thank the authorities of the Field Museum, 

 the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia and the U. S. National 

 Museum for the identification of much of my material; and the latter 

 institution especially for its loan of valuable material. 



" Loveland, fi(Je Miller, op. cit., p. 98. A single skin without skull in my own 

 collection from Boulder Canyon, approximate altitude 2,3<)U m., lias the typieal 

 browii color of E. fuscus. 



* Miller, op. cit., p. 99, says of fuscus: "Very pallid specimens are occasionally 

 taken in the Soutliwr-stern "United States, but tlie number of skins availal)le for 

 comparison is so small that it is impossii)le to tletermine the status of the form 

 which these aberrant individuals represent." It is po.ssil)le that these specimens 

 are representatives of my new form, out not ha\ing seen them I cannot say. 




410 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



SOME EFFECTS OF ENVIRONMENT ON THE GROWTH OF LYMNiEA 

 COLUMELLA Say.' 



by harold sellers colton. 

 Table of Contents, 



PAGE 



T. Introduction 410 



II. Historical 411 



III. Materials 412 



Natural History 413 



Dcscriptiou of Dwarfs 414 



IV. Methods 415 



Precautions 416 



Mea-surements 417 



Description of Tables 418 



Analy?isof Experiments 418 



V. Experirm-nts on Growth of Lvmnrea 420 



1. Food: Water Plants...' 420 



Effect of Sediment 423 



Effect of Fa?ces 425 



Other Effects of the Water Plants 425 



2. Aeration 425 



De Varipmy's Experiment 426 



Willeni's Experiment 426 



Effect of Surface Aeration 426 



Effect of .\rtificial Aeration 428 



3. Compo.'iition of the. Water 430 



Effect of Accumulation of Excreted Matter 430 



Effect of Sliell Salts 434 



Effect of Number of Individuals 434 



4. Temperature 435 



5. Light 437 



6. Area 438 



7. Volume.. „ 440 



8. Alternaticm of Conditions 441 



9. Experinieiits on Tadpoles 441 



VI. Effect of E\tf rnal (V)n(lition3on the number of eggs laid 443 



1. Seriiment 443 



2. Number of Individuals 444 



3. Lieht 444 



4. Other Effects and Observations 445 



VII. Summar>' and Conclasions 446 



VIII. Literature.. 447 



I. Introduction. 



It i.s a widely recognized fact that animals raised in confinement 

 differ in various ways from those in the wild state. The differences 



' Tlie writer inkptt great pleaHure in tliankinp Dr. J. Percy Moore and Dr. E. G. 

 Conklin in particular for many helpful sugge^stions and criticisms in carrying out 

 the work. 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 411 



that are most easily observed are those of relative rate of gro\N'th and 

 of relative fertility. Although naturalists for many years have 

 recorded cases of tliis sort, few have undertaken an experimental study 

 of the factors concerned. 



External conditions modifying one structure of an organism have 

 usually been found to be correlated with similar modifications in other 

 organs, yet few correlations between dissimilar })hysiological processes 

 have ever been observed, although most naturaUsts hold them to be 

 present. 



In studying the effect of confinement on organisms, nearly all 

 investigator have chosen the Pond Snail as an animal admirably 

 adapted to their purpose. Perhaps it is largely due to the abundance, 

 to the hardiness, to the rapidity of growth and above all to the extreme 

 seasibility of Pond Snails to any slight change in environment that 

 they have been so universally chosen. 



II. Historical. 



Jebez Hogg ('54) discovered that Lymnaia confinetl in small aquaria 

 were much smaller than their brothers of the same egg case raised in a 

 large one. The latter were full grown and had producetl 3'oung which 

 were as large as the former at the end of six months. Hogg attempted 

 to explain this phenomenon by saying that the snail had tiie power of 

 "adapting itself to the necessities of its existence," 



Carl Semper ('79) did not consider this as an explanation. He be- 

 lieved that there was a definite factor that would cause dwarfing. This 

 led him to perform a series of experiments with various sized containers. 

 The concliLsion that he arrived at was as follows: that there was a 

 chemical in the water (he had the water analyzed, but nothing was 

 discovered) that stimulates growth without actually contributing to 

 it, but yet is essential, "like oil to a steam engine." 



The next investigat^^r to ent«'r thi.s field was E. Yung ('78, '85). He 

 proceeded to raise tatl poles from the egg in various sized and sliaped 

 containers. He found that tiiose with the greatest area exi){)seil to the 

 air held the largest tadpoles after a certain length of time. The 

 obvious conclusion was that the dwarfing was caused by lack of 

 aeration. 



Stimulated by the experiments of Semper and Yung, De Varigny ('94) 

 made an attempt to solve the problem by returning to Li/nvuea. After 

 a hundn^l or more very careful experiments, lip did not dare venture 

 any very definite conchisiinj, but thought that the dwarfing of these 

 Pond Snails was cause<l by lack of exerci.se. 




412 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [JlllVj 



Both Semper and De Varignv, on a priori grounds, assumed that the 

 manner of respiration in the fresh water puhnonates was entirely per- 

 formed l)y the so-called lung. This caused them to overlook the 

 factor of the aeration of the water. 



Willem ('96) called attention to this fact and conducted a series of 

 experiments with this particular end in \dew. ^^arious authors had 

 already noticed that Lymruea in deep lakes never came to the surface, 

 and that under certain conditions they could be made to visit the 

 surface veiy seldom. Acting on thei;e suggestions, he performed his 

 experiments by running a stream of air bubbles through the water, 

 using De Varigny's experiments as a basis. By this meaas he was able 

 to explain all of De Varigny's results as due to the simple factor of 

 aeration of the water. 



Parallel to the experiments of De Varigny ('94) and Willem ('96), 

 ^>rnon ('95) experimented at Naples on the growth of Echinoderm 

 larvae. His conclusions were that dwarfing in confined spaces was due 

 to the concentration of excretory secretions in the medium. Aeration 

 seemed not to be a factor in the growth of Echinoderm larvae, except 

 for the fact that aeration would tend to oxidize the waste products of 

 metabolism. 



Warren ('00), as a result of experiments with Daphnia in confined 

 spaces, reported that the individuals were dwarfed by the accumulation 

 of their own excretory secretioas. This was specific and did not 

 affect the growth and abundance of other crustaceaas. 



It will be seen that five factors have been advanced to explain 

 dwarfing in confined spaces. Th&se are lack of ox^'gen, presence of 

 secretioas, lack of exercise, presence of unknown chemical, and the 

 adaption to the necessities of existence. 



In commenting on these explanations Davenport ('99) writes, 

 "There is, however, much reason for believing that Hogg's conclusion 

 is the one which witii (nir fuller knowledge we can hardly improve 

 upon." In the mind of the author Hogg's explanation is not an expla- 

 nation but a statement of the fact that confined spacesdo afi'ect growth. 

 It docs not lielp us to understand how and why animals adapt tiiem- 

 selves to their surroundings. 



III. Materials. 



After a few preliminary experiments with Lyynn(vn, Physa and 

 PUinorbi.H, it was sof)n found that the former was l)y far the best form 

 for experiments in the lal)or!itf)ry. There are several reasons for 

 this. Lymncta Ls abundant in the ponds and streams about I'hiladel- 




I 



1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 413 



phia. It is not quite as abundant, perhaps, as is Physa; yet. except 

 when the ponds are frozen in the winter, is easily procureil. A fact 

 of the greatest importance is that eggs are laid throughout the ^vnnter, 

 and that these eggs ordinarily develop with slight mortality. The 

 Lymruea on which the following experiments were performed was 

 identified by Dr. H. A. Pilsbr\' as Lymnan columella Say. This is the 

 most common Lymruea in the neighborhood of Philadelphia. The 

 specimens were procured in certain ponds in Fairmount Park, in a 

 stream near Bryn Mawr, and in the Vivarium of the Univei"sity of 

 Pena'^ylvania; the latter had come from an unknown source. 



The number of eggs laid at one time by Lymmxa columella may vary 

 between one egg and ninety. The egg is, as in the case of other Basiom- 

 matophora, imbedded in an albuminous food material, all of wliich is 

 enclased by a membrane. This membrane is in turn imbedded in a 

 sUmy jelly in which lie the other eggs, laid at the same time. This 

 slimy jelly is again surrounded by an outer layer of jelly, which is 

 quite tough when compared to that matrix which holds the eggs. This 

 tough jelly is thick on the free side. l)ut thin where it cements the eggs 

 to the substratum. In the act of hatching the young snail, which 

 crawls around inside of the membrane, finds its way into the soft jelly 

 mass. After spending a tiay or two eating this substance, it finally 

 ruptures the wall of tough jelly and escapes. In this jelly mass the 

 eggs are usually place<l in three rows. Although the number of eggs 

 may vaiy greatly, yet in the winter time the average number is about 

 twenty. When adult snails, as soon as the ice is off the ponds in the 

 spring, are brought into the laboratory, they lay the largest number 

 of eggs in a capsule. This fact will be discussed later. 



To shed some light on the behavior of the snail after hatching, an egg 

 case containing four young was place<l in a dish of water and the posi- 

 tioas of the snails after hatfliing jjlottnl at intervals of five minutes 

 for a pericxl of forty-four hours. From the data gathered in this 

 manner the following generalizations were matle: — 



1. Although oil hatching the lung contained no air, yet 95 minutes, 

 50 minutes, 110 minutes and (KJ minutes respectively were consumed 

 by the different snriils in reaching the surface of the water. One snail 

 capture<l an air bubble before it left the egg case. 



2. The movements of snails, previous to their reaching the surface, 

 were more or less at random, and they paid vcr>' little attention to the 

 direction of the diffused light in which the experiment was started. 

 However, on first reaching the e^lge of the dish they, in ever\' case, 

 crawle<l up to the surface. The sruiil that captiuc^l the air bubble 



27 




414 PROCEEDINX.S OF THE ACADEMY OF [-Tuly, 



waiulereil for 110 minutes after leaving the capsule and then reached 

 the surface by a different method. Letting go from its substratum 

 this snail floated up and proceeded to crawl on the surface film, precisely 

 like an adult snail. 



3. In this experiment the snails \vith(jut exception rested at night. 

 The lack of activity may be due to slightly cooler water, yet the dish 

 was kept in a warm room all of the time. Although these snails had no 

 experience of the oustide world, yet they acted, as far as this experiment 

 indicates, exactly as adults. 



Walter ('06) has given us the most complete account of the bionomics 

 of Lymncea. Using his work as a basis it is necessary to call to mind 

 certain activities of the animal. Lymncea has four methods of loco- 

 motion, which may be roughly described as gliding, hunching, dangling 

 and dropping. The last two methods are rare and it is not necessary to 

 consider them in this place. The first method is the most common. 

 It consists in the cilia of the foot beating on a path of mucus secreted by 

 the animal and attached to the substratum. When the snail is out of 

 water, when its supply of mucus is inadequate and when certain stimuli 

 are appUed the snail resorts to the hunching method, which consists of 

 muscular movements of the foot which bring the snail fonvard. This 

 is something like the movements of a measuring worm. Whatever 

 method the snail uses it is attachetl to some substratum, whether it be 

 the sides of the aquarium or the surface film of the water, or suspended 

 by a string of mucus from the surface film or anchored by a string of 

 mucus from the bottom. In these ways the snail can browse on 

 water plants, on the sides of the aquarium, and gather the algae floating 

 on the surface (Plankton fishing of liroekmeier, '98) ; but cannot gather 

 any amount of fo(xl suspended in the water. 



We have seen by the experiments of Hogg, Semper and De \arigny 

 that certain external conditions will inhii)it growth in Lyninaa. It is 

 interesting to know just what structural differences exist between the 

 full-grown snail, the dwarf and a normal growing snail the size of the 

 dwarf. Hogg ('54) noticed that the dwarfed snail had many charac- 

 teristics of the newly hatched individual. 



A comparison of the structure of a dwarf with a ycjung snail of ecjual 

 size that was being raised inulcr favorable conditions, and a comparison 

 of the structure of a dwarf with a snail of the same age that Iiad spent 

 its growing periiMl inidcr fuvoraljle conditions and therefore nuich 

 larger, will show certain relations. The.se relations are as follows : 



1. Of snails the same size Ijut not the same age the number of whorls 

 of the shell arc the same. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 415 



2. The same relation holds true with regard to the arrangement of 

 the viscera, i.e.. lobes of the liver, stomach and intestines. 



3. Cvt(ilogically. however, the tissues of the young snail are quite 

 tlifferent from the older ones. As an instance of this the liver of the 

 young snail contains large cells laden with yolk, all of which has been 

 completely absorljed in the tlwarf. 



In a pond near Geneva Brot- found that Lymmca had a malformation 

 on the columella that seemed to be correlated with the pre-sence of 

 Hydra viridis. If a snail be long dwarfed and later be put under favor- 

 able conditions, the shell is often strangely distorted. The pond near 

 Geneva may have nearly dried up and suddenly filleil up again. .\ll the 

 snails in the pond would be under unfavorable conditions and dwarfed. 

 The pond filling up woukl offer ideal conditions and the snails would 

 grow. 



Dr. Pilsbry informed the writer that he has noted cases of this sort. 



A question of great interest is, will a dwarf put under favorable con- 

 ditions "grow up"? In LifmrKva many experiments seem to show 

 that a dwarf does not cea'^e to grow, but rather ceases to grow fast. 

 If, however, the snail is put under favorable comlitions it starts at once 

 to grow faster and may "grow, up." However, they .seem "delicate" 

 and it is with difhculty that they are raise<l. 



In this .section the writer has attempted to outline some of the points 

 that have certain bearings on the experiments to come. 



1\'. Mkthods. 



In the brief review of the experiments of various a\ithors that has 

 been given, certain controllable fact(»i-s were shown that would affect 

 in certain ways the growth of animals. Every author on a priori 

 grovnuls has a'^sumed that (1) food supply will influence growth. It 

 was found by Hogg ('54) and by Semper (74) that (2) the volume of 

 water affected growth. Semper showetl that (3) temperature also 

 was a factor that could not be neglecte<l, and that (4) the number of 

 individuals reacted in some manner on one another. Willem {'96) 

 prove<l that (5) aeration of the water affected the growth of Lijmnoca, 

 even as Yung ('79) had previously observj^l for tadpoles. De \'arigny 

 considere<l that a large (0) area on which a ."^nail could crawl was bene- 

 ficial to growth. The effect of (7) light was recognized by Higgen- 

 bottom (*5(>) and by Yung ('.SO). Vernon ('95-'99) complete<l this 

 li"«t l;y adding to it a factor, (.S) the chemical composition of the water. 



' Cite<l from the Camb. Wat. Hint., Molhnks, p. 88. 




416 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Ju^Y^ 



There are eight variable factors that have been considered to affect 

 the growth processes of aquatic animals. Each factor, however, is not 

 of equal weight, but should be held in mind and controlled , if possible, 

 in an experimental study. Using the topics named above as a basis for 

 study, the general plan of the experiments that follow in the subsequent 

 section will be to keep every other factor constant and var}^ one alone. 



PrecaiUiom. — The experiments were carried out principally in 

 battery jars. The size used in the majority of the experiments was 

 4 inches in diameter by 5 inches high. Other vessels used were 5x6 

 batter}' jars, 8 x 10 batter}- jai-s and 12-incli dishes. 



In order to save repetition we w^ consider here the methods em- 

 ployed in every case. "\^liere this order has been deviated from, it 

 will be mentioned in its place. 



(1) Before each experiment the jars were washed out and wiped 

 clean. In the later experiments the jars were washed with oxidizing 

 solution (potassium bichromate in concentrated sulphuric acid) as an 

 extra precaution. 



(2) The water used in the experiments was taken from a large 

 aquarium in the University ^'ivarium which contained fish. This was 

 done to introduce algae, etc., without the danger of adding young snails 

 with it. f • ^ 



(3) In any one experiment the jars used were similar, the water 

 was taken from the same source, and the same amount of water wa.s 

 ased unless stated otherwise. These conditions being fulfilled, the 

 composition of the water, the algie for food, and the temperature must 

 var}' in the same way. 



(4) In a given experiment the jars were placed near together an<l 

 care was taken so that each received an equal amount of liglit. 



(5) Over each was placed a glass plate to prevent evaporation and 

 the escape of the snails. This latter apparently suicidal behavior, as 

 describe<l by Walter, was found often occurring. In many of the 

 cases that have come under observation, this was caused by the vapor 

 condensing on the gla.ss sides of the jar above the water. Up this wet 

 glass the snail crawls, until temperature changes occur that dry the 

 glass. The snail is then dried and killed. Other ca.ses are not so easy 

 to explain. 



(6) Just before an egg case was remly to hatch, with a section lifter it 

 was carefully removed from its suKstratum and isolated in a jar of 

 water. If the eggs are freshly laid it is usually fatal to the enil)ryos 

 to remove them. In sotiic of the earlier experiments, after the young 

 snail has broken through the egg membrane, the jelly mass was divided 



I 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



417 



£ 



up so that each piece contained an equal number of snails and placed at 

 once under the conditions of the experiment. As there wa-s less 

 mortality by letting the young snails escape from the case normally, 

 they were not placed under the conditions of the experiment until a day 

 after they escaped from the egg case. 



(7) In tho.se jars in which I have placed water plant I have tried to 

 add pieces of water plant of equal length and foliage. 



(8) Where sediment was needed approximately the same amount 

 was added to each jar. 



Measurements. — To measure growth several methods have been 

 used. It is possible to 

 measure volume, weight, 

 a lineal dimension of some 

 part, or the number of 

 successively arising homo- 

 dynamous structures. In 

 the case of the pond snail 

 the lineal dimension of the 

 length of the shell at once 

 sugge.sts itself. To meas- 

 ure this the following ap- 

 paratus was afranged. A 

 is a compound microscoi)e 

 with aljout a 7-inch work- 

 ing distance magnifying 

 the object about three 

 times (fig. 1). O is a snail 

 on a thin glass slide that 

 was jjlaceil over a piece of 

 paper ruled in millimetei's. 

 The snail was placed with 

 the aperture flat on the 

 gla'^s and the shell would 

 be projected on the rule<l 

 Hues. Millimeters were 

 then rejul off on the 

 j)aper and tenths estimated, Thi.s is sufficiently accurate where the 

 work is purely (lualitative. A Wrnier caliper could not be u.sed on 

 account of the delicacy of the shell. 



hi some cases the weight is given. This is not alwa}'s satisfactorj'. 

 An growth is a three dimeasional plienomenon weight more nearly 



= i 



Fia. 1. 




418 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [-^"ly, 



represents growth. However, the writer found that the snails, hirge 

 and small, are mathematically similar. That is, the weights are pro- 

 portional to the cubes of the length. 



In determining the average weight all the snails from a given experi- 

 ment were placed on a microscopic slide of known weight and all excess 

 water wiped away with a clean handkerchief or with lens paper. They 

 were then let dry for three or four minutes and weighed. Dividing the 

 weight found for the snails by the number gives the average. 



Tables. — The results of experiments are placed in tabular form. 

 Each experiment consists of two parts; the second member of the pair 

 is in everj' case the control or the condition most nearly normal. The 

 variable factor precedes it. 



A detailed description of the vertical columns of the tables will now 

 be considered. Cf. tables, pp. 421 et seq. 



Column 1 . — The serial number of the experiment. 



Column 2. — The number of days the experiment was carried on. 



Column 3. — The number of snails placed in a jar at the beginning of 

 the experiment. 



Column 4. — The number of snails alive at the time the measure- 

 ments were taken. 



Column 5. — The condition that varied in each pair of experiments. 



Column 6. — Certain constant conditions. These constants are in 

 some cases interesting to know. In this column certain abbrevia- 

 tions are used. W P equals Water Plant, i.e., MyriophyUum, Cera- 

 tophyllum, Elodea or Spirogyra. N indicates no water plant, cc. 

 equals cubic centimeters present in each jar. 



Column 7. — Average size. If the number is expressed in t^n thou- 

 sandths, grams are to be implied; if expressed in units and tenths, 

 millimeters. 



Column 8. — The differences between pairs are placed opposite the 

 largest number of the pair. 



Column 9. — The quantity in this column is the per cent, of the differ- 

 ence to the largest average of the pair. To be able to compare the per 

 cent, difference of the weights with those of lengths the following 

 formula was usetl, being based on the fact that the snails are similar. 



a and 6 are two members of a pair exjjressed in grams and o > 6. 

 Since the shells are similar mathematically, then 



l*a 100 ^, ,r.J^(i - ^h) 



A AC " x^ c/ ''^ X /c = 100 —j^ 



ta -^h X % fa 



Analysis of Experiments. — To bring the mass of experiments into a 




1908.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADKLPHIA. 419 



form in which they may be more easily considered, a subsidiar\' table 

 has been compiled from the primary ones. This table consists of four 

 columns (p. 420a). 



Column 1 contains the number of the primar\' table for reference. 



Column 2 gives the number of experiments in the primary tables that 

 are favorable to the presence of a factor. 



Column 3 gives the number of experiments in the primar>' tables that 

 are favorable to the absence of a factor. 



Colimm 4 shows the number of experiments that are indeterminate. 

 To determine whether an experiment is indeterminate or not certain 

 rules are f(>llowe<l : 



1. If there has been a large mortality among the snails which were 

 the larger at the end of the experiment the difference was considered 

 indeterminate. The fact that they were the larger could be explained 

 by the fact that they were the fewer. If, however, the opposite 

 was true, i.e., the mortality was among the smaller snails, then the 

 probability is that they are fewer because the conditions have been the 

 more severe. 



2. An experiment has been considered indeterminate if there was a 

 large mortalit}' on both sides of the experiment, notwithstaniling the 

 fact that the remaining numbci"s are nearly equal. The reason for 

 this is the probability that an uncontrolled factor has been acting. 



3. When a known factor has acted on one portion of the experiment 

 and not on the other, the difference has been coasidered indeterminate. 



4. Those experiments where the difference is under 10 per cent, of 

 the greatest average has \ioen believe<l to be indeterminate. This 

 purely arbitrary criterion has i)een devised to allow for two uncon- 

 trollable errors — individual variation and errors in measurement. The 

 obvious way to correct these errors would be to make use of large niun- 

 bers of individuals in single experiments. An the number of eggs in a 

 case is small, and when the snails are crowde<l the mortality is large, 

 it has been found impossible to deal with large numbers. A limi of 

 error must bo ma<le that will l)o large enough to cover most unknown 

 errors (see next pa'.;c). 




420 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[July, 



Secoxdarv Taijle. . 

 For description see page 419. 



Table 



I. 

 II. 



III. 



IV. 



V. 



VI. 



VII. 



VIII. 



IX. 



X. 



XI. 

 XII. 



XIII. 



XIV. 



XV. 



XVI. 



XVII. 



XVIII. 



XIX. 



XX. 



Elodea 2 cxp. 



Myriophyllum *' 



Sediment 13 " 



Fajces 2 " 



Flat dish 2 " 



1 " 



.\ir bubbles 5 " 



(See Special Table,p.431) 

 Excretions cone. . . V " 

 " dilute. .5 " 



(See Special Table.) 



Numbers " 



Sliell salts (see Special 



Table). 

 Temperature (see Special 



Table, p. 419). 



Cold Oe.xp. 



Dark " 



Large area 2 " 



Large volume 8 " 



Alternate heat and 



cold 4 " 



Alternate light and 



dark " 



Alternate starving 



and feeding " 



Absence of 4 exp. 



" 4 " 



" 4 " 



" " 



.Jar and slides 2 " 



Battery jar " 



Absence of 2 " 



" 4 " 



" " 



" 5 " 



Warm 11 " 



Light 5 " 



Small area 8 " 



Small volume ... " 



"Warm 7 " 



Light 3 " 



With food 5 " 



Inde- 

 terminate. 



4 exp. 



V. Experiments. 



1. Effect of Food. — ^'arious authoi*s (Semper, Ullyet,* Cockerall,* 

 Walter, etc.) have shown that Lymntea will eat animal as well as vege- 

 table food. However, the latter furni.shes the normal diet. This con- 

 8i.sts of diatomes, desmids, unicellular and filamentous algse, the leaves 

 of water plants, and de£id leaves of trees. If a snail after hatching is 

 place<l in a clean battery jar with 500 cc. of clear pond water that 

 snail will grow, the necessary amount of food being supplied by the 

 microscopic alga3 introduccfl with the water which will increase fa.'^ter 

 than the .'<nail can cat up. If the temperatiu'c is favorable, in the coui-sc 

 of two months the snail will reach 7 mm. or 8 mm. in altitude and 

 become sexually mature. The fact that the supply of food keeps 

 ahea<l of the demand is interesting and led to a scries of experiments 



' Boiled water from a jar in which a snail had been raised. 

 ♦ Cited from Walter ('06). 



I 




1908.] 



X.\TURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



421 



with MyriophyUum and Elodea, to see the effect of these water plants 

 and to discover whether or not their presence is beneficial. A priori 

 one would consider that the effect of these larger water plants as 

 Elod&i or MyriophyUum would be beneficial, ^ly experiments seemed 

 in indicate that their effect was the opposite. I at once started a great 

 number of experiments in this line. Some experiments, as can be seen 

 in Table I and Table II, went decidedly one way and some went 

 decidedly the other. The results were chaotic and no generalizations 

 were possible. 



A study of the gross anatomy of Lymncea reveals the fact that the 

 anterior portion of the stomach is highly muscular. This muscular 

 sac was originally described by Martin Lister* and comparetl to the 

 stomach of a mullet. Cuvier ('17) more happily compared it to the 

 gizzard of a granivorous bird. It was compared much later by the 

 geologist Whitfield ('82), independently of Cuvier, to the gizzard of a 

 fowl. Whitfield showed that this organ like the gizzard is normally 

 filled with sand in Lymncea megasomxi. 



Table I — Effect of Elodea. 



» Cited l)v Cuvirr ri7\" 




422 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[July, 



Table II — Effect of Myriophyllum. 



Effect nf Sediment. — The pizzanl of LifmrKva columeUa, like the latter, 

 is iLsually filled with fine sand. However, in dissecting a number of 

 individuals of LymruBa columella that had been raised in clean battery 

 jars I found no sign r»f sand. In a few individuals I found some grains, 

 when a diligent search of the jar failed to reveal any more. It seems 

 that this individual had in its crop the only grains of sediment that the 

 jar containefl. 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



423 



Table III — Effect of Sediment, 




424 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [•^uly, 



Another point of importance in these experiments was the fact that 

 in no cases was the water plant attacked when sediment was not 

 present. On the other hand, in jars with sediment present the normal 

 tiling was to have the leaves of the water i)lant cut to pieces. 



To determine whether the presence or absence of sediment would 

 affect the growth processes of the snail a number of experiments were 

 undertaken. The sediment used in Experiments 85, 86, 87 and 88, 

 was mud from the pond in the Botanic Gardens. This was washed 

 and that which settled in from 1 to 5 minutes kept for experimental 

 purposes. Because this mud would probably introduce food into the 

 jars, soil from the garden bed was taken, boiled and that which settled 

 in from 1 to 5 minutes used in Experiments 89 and 90. In Experi- 

 ments 118-121 the sediment was boiled in concentrated nitric acid, 

 evaporated to dryness, and ignited. This would surely destroy all 

 organic matter; yet the results of these experiments continued to show 

 the benefit of the sediment. Quartz sand and quartz pebbles washed 

 with nitric acid gave beneficial results also. If the MyriophyUum was 

 washetl in running water the snails did not grow as large as if it was 

 usetl with the particles of sediment still clinging to the leaves. 



In conclusion it seems probable that (1) the muscular gizzard filled 

 with sand is necessary to break up the plant cells that have been torn 

 off by the radula. (2) The absence of sand seems to have the effect 

 of causing the snails not to rasp off cells from the tissues of water plant . 

 (3) If there Is enough small algae present, MyriophyUum will have little 

 or no effect on the growth. (4) An examination of the stomach of 

 small snails under 5 mm. shows that such plant tissue as MyriophyUum 

 Is not eaten. With snails 5 to 12 mm., however, great gashes are torn in 

 the leaves, and the stomach is filled with the crushed cells. (5) The 

 db<cordant results of Tables I and II are no doubt due to the presence 

 or absence of sediment. 



F'cces. — The amount of faeces produced by Lymncea is enormous and 

 Walter ('06) reports that Lymncea elodes forms cylinders of faecal mat- 

 ter fourteen times its own length every twenty-four houi-s. This 

 collects at the bottom of the aquaria in great tangled masses. 



De Varigny ('94) investigated the effect of this material on the 

 growing snail. The r&sult of his experiments was the stunting of the 

 snails in the jar with the fiecal masses. In repeating these experi- 

 ments of Dc Varigny the writer gathered fieces from a jar in which a 

 snail hatl been living for a month or two. This matter in some cases 

 wa.s washe<l in a filter and in others by decanting. This washe<l 

 material wa-s abided to jars of snails. The result indicated in Table IV 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



425 



was the opposite from tliat found by De \'arigny. However, the 

 latter did not wash the ftecal material, and so introduced into the 

 water a large amount of soluble excreted material that he himself found 

 so harmful to the growing«nail. 



Table IV — Effect of F.eces. 



Ex. Days. 



No. 

 Beg. 



No. 

 End. 



Variable. 



Constant. 



Av. 

 Size. 



Dif. 



Per 

 cent. 



^- Rathay's ('98) observations on Helix hortensis and Young's ('88) 

 observations on Helix pomatia and on Arion show that these pulmonates 

 eat a great mass of food, very little of which appears to be assimilated 

 or even digested. 



Observations of the fa?cal matter of Lymncca shows the same thing 

 true for these pond snails. Although the writer did not perform 

 any special tests on the cells fouml in f:pces, as did Rathay ('98), yet 

 the appearance of the Plcurococcus and desniids in those masses was so 

 nearly normal that there is very little doubt that there was any 

 change. 



Other Effects nf Water Plants. — Warren ('00) discovered that Daphnia 

 in a ve-ssel fille<l with Vallisneria became le.'^s and less productive. If, 

 however, the bulk of the water plant wjv^ reinove<^l, the crustaceans soon 

 regained their normal numl)er. As green light wa.s found to be unfavor- 

 able to the fertility of Daphnia, Warren concluded that the mass of 

 green plant cau.se<l the light to be green and the Daphnia infertile in 

 con.seciuence. 



It can be imagine<l from what has been said that the effect of water 

 plant on the physiological jjrocesses of organisuLs is not simple and it is 

 not easy at once to discover just how it acts. 



2. Aeration. — This section should be treated under the hea<l of the 

 composition of the water, but as Semper, De \'arigny, Willem and 

 Walter have each considered it .separately, it was thought best to 

 ff)llow them and make it an independent topic. 



On a priori grounds Semper (79) and De N'arigny ('94) both decided 

 that the only means of respiration in Lymna:a was l)y the specially 




426 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Julv, 



differentiated so-called lung; therefore these moUusks must come to the 

 surface for air. However, the observations of v. Siebold^ ('59). Pauly" 

 (77). Forel ('69. 74, '04), Andre« ('01), Walker ('00) and the experi- 

 ments of WlUem ('96) show that the respiration of the animal is in a 

 larfre ])art carried on by the outer surface of the body. 



Dc Varigny's Experiment. — De \'arign3' noticed that dishes with the 

 largest area contained the largest snails. This at once suggested aera- 

 tion. To determine whether this was the true explanation, he half 

 immersed a small glass cylinder with the bottom covered with muslin 

 in a large vessel of water. To insure the mixture of the water in both 

 vessels, he lifte<:l the small vessel out of the large one daily and allowed 

 it to empty and fill, when he replaced it again. In each vessel he 

 introduced a snail of equal size and age; and at the end of the experi- 

 ment the one that had a large place in which to roam was the larger. 

 As the water in both compartments was in communication, the amount 

 of oxA'gen in both vessels must be identical. Therefore, the snail 

 having the greatest area to roam about, on his exercise theory, became 

 the larger. 



Willem's Experiment. — ^Semper ('79) found that to carry air bubbles 

 through a vessel containing young snails createtl such a disturbance 

 that the small snails were washed from their substratum. Willem 

 ('96) devised an apparatus for conducting air bubbles through a liquid 

 without disturbing the water. It consisted of a glass tube (fig. 2) (a) 

 inmiersed in the jar to be experimented on. Below the surface was 

 blown a hole (o). Tube (c), turned upon the end, conducted bubbles 

 of air into tube (a). The bubbles escape<l into the water and travelled 

 up tube (a), the water carrietl up by the bubble escaping by the hole 

 (o), and the air bubble continued up the tube and escaped. 



Willem repeate<l the experiment of I)e \'arigny, but introduced his 

 aerating apparatus into the small jar (fig. 3). The water, kept con- 

 stantly interchanging in the large and small vessel, caused the snails 

 to be of equal size, 



Vernon ('03) explained the results of this experiment not by lack of 

 aeration, but by the increase of excretory pnxlucts which did not pass 

 freely thn)ugh the muslin. 



Surface Aeration. — The experiments undertaken by tjie writer are 

 considered under two heads — surface aeration and artificial aeration. 

 The effect of .surface aeration wa.s determine<l by tlie use of flat dishefi 

 and a batter}' jar for control. To make the inside area of the jar equal 

 t^) the in.sicle area of t le dish, so as to have equal areas inside the jar 



•Citf-d from Walter COO). 




193S.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



427 



Fig. 2. (After Willem.) 



Fig. 3. (After Willem.) 



for algae to grow upon and for the snail to "exercise" upon, a structure 

 of microscopic slides of calculatetl area was introduced. Table V gives 

 the results of these experiments. These results are seen to have little 



Table V — Flat Dish and Jar Area Ixcre.a.sed by Slides, 




428 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[July, 



Fig. 4. 



si^ficance. In some, however, no slides were used (Table VI). 

 (^)iit of seven experiments but one difFerence was significant, and that 

 one indicated that the larger surface was beneficial. 



However, these experiments seem to indicate that the effect of sur- 

 face a(iration is not very striking, yet increased aeration by the surface 

 of the water no doubt is of slight advantage to the growth of the snail. 



Artificial Aeration. — In a number of experimente streams of air 

 bubbU^ were Cf)riducte<l thrr)ugh jars of water. The apparatus use<l 

 was a mfxlification of that of Willoin C'JG) (see fig. 4). In Experiments 

 37-43 (Table VII) the air was passed through night and day, in the 

 remaining oxpfriincrit.s for but eight hf)urs a day. The results confirm 

 Willem's conchision that cuticuhir respiration is a large factor in the 

 growth of Lymruca. 




1908.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 



Table \'1 — Flat Dish and B.\ttery Jar, 



429 



Ex. Days. 



No. 

 Beg. 



3.3A 



B 



34A 



B 



98A 



B 



99A 



B 



lOOA 



B 



101 A 



B 



102A 



B 



No. 

 End. 



. Variable. 



Constant. 



Av. 

 Size. 



Dif. 



I.,arge sur. 

 Small sur. 

 Large sur. 

 Small sur. 

 Large sur. 

 Small sur. 

 Large sur. 

 Small sur. 

 Large sur. 

 Small sur. 

 Large sur. 

 Small sur. 

 Large sur. 

 Small sur. 



area. W. P. .WO ec. 

 area. 



area. W. P. .500 cc. 



area. 



area. A'. 500 cc. 



area. 



area. N'. .500 cc. 



area. 



area. X. 500 cc. 



area. | 



area. X. .500 cc. 



area. I 



area. X. .500 cc. 



area. i 



4.G 

 4.4 

 3.6 

 4.1 

 5.7 

 4.5 

 6.5 

 8.0 

 3.9 



.0 



1.2 



1.5 

 .3 



Per 

 cent. 



12% 

 21% 



18% 



7% 

 _4% 



34% 



Tarle VII — Artificial Aer.\tion. 



Ex. 



Days. 



No. 

 Beg. 



No. 

 End. 



Variable. 



1 .Air bubbles. 



1 X«ine. 



1 -Mr bubbles. 



1 Xorie. 



1 .\ir bubbles. 



1 X«)ne. 



1 Air bubbles. 



1 .\<»ne. 



1 .Vir ijubbles. 



1 Xoiie. 



1.5 Air btibbles. 



U Xone. 



1 Air bubbles. 



1 Xune. 



3 .\ir bublilea. 



2 Xone. 



1 Air l)ubblP8. 



1 .Xone. 



I .\ir l)ubl»ics. 



4 Xone. 



Constant. 



Av. 



Size. 



Dif. : 



X. .500 cc. 



it 



W. P. 500 cc. 



II 



W. P. 500 cc. 



ii 



X. .500 cc. 

 W. P. 750 cc. 

 W. P. 750 cc. 



it 



W. P. 500 cc. 

 W. P. 500 cc. 



W. P. 500 cc. 



II 



W. P. .500 cc. 



3.8 



2.8 

 1 8.8 

 [ 6.4 



8.2 

 ! 8.0 

 j 7.0 

 I 4.5 



6.2 



4. 



2. 

 I 2.8 



4.9 

 ; 5.9 

 I 3.1 

 j 2.9 



5.8 

 ! 7.0 



6.8 

 .. 3.8 



2.4 



.2 



2.5 



Per 

 cent. 



1.0 26% 



27% 



_27o 

 36% 



2.2 36% 



.8 29% 



1.0 , 17% 

 .2 I 6% 



1.2 I 17% 

 3. , 44% 



Walter's ('06) experiments show that Lymnaa will live in boiled 

 wat^r. but cf)me to tho siirfnoo more often. If in»|)risono<l hclow the 

 Hiirfacc of ftfratc*! water they <li<'. 

 2K 




430 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [-lulv, 



In consideration of the above the writer believes the following 

 statement of Willem not altogether supported by the facts. Willem 



('96) writes, p. 567: ''Ces experiences, prouvent que chez les 



Basommatophores la respiration cutan^e est pi as import ante que la 

 respiration pulmonaire et qu'^ elle seule, elle peut suffire a la vie de 

 ces animaux." 



3. The Composition of the Water. — The present study considers those 

 conditions alone in which the composition of the water might affect 

 the growlh of pond snails imder natural conditions. 



Effect of Accumulation of Excreted Matter. — De \'arigny ('94) grew 

 snails in water in which a snail had been living for months, with the 

 re.-«ult that the snails were dwarfed. \'ernon ('95) performed similar 

 experiments with Echinoderm larva) with the same result. The writer 

 has conducted experiments of this sort on Lymncea. Table IX expresses 

 the results of eight experiments. These results are as follows: (1) 

 That weak solutions of the waste products of metabolism are of benefit 

 to the snail. (2) That concentrated solutions are harmful. (3) In 

 Experiments 136 and 199 the water was aerated so the factor of the 

 aeration of the water would be constant. In Experiment 143 the 

 water was boiled, yet in these two cases the results were similar. Later 

 the experiments of Table X were repeated with different dilutions of 

 urea with similar results. As these were similar to those found by 

 Vernon ('95), who used also uric acid on Echinoderm larvae, it was not 

 thought necfrssarv to continue the experiments further. 



Analyses of the u-ater. A year before \'ernon's ('99) paper was 

 called to the attention of the writer, a series of analyses were made 

 of the water in a number of jars. Although not nearly so extensive 

 as those of \'ernon, yet the results were nearly parallel. 



Hy the methods of water analysis (Clowes and Coleman, '03), the 

 water in the jars of several exiierimcnts was analyzed for chlorides, 

 nitrates and particularly for free and for albuminoid ammonia. The 

 free ammonia consists largely of the inorganic salts of ammonia. 

 Ali)uinini>id annn<»riia on the other hand is made uj) of organic com- 

 pounds from which the anunonia radicle is not detached by boiling 

 with sodium carbonate. 



Experiments 200 and 201, Table VIII. were conducte<l in the follow- 

 ing manner: Six jars with 500 cc. of water, which was analyzed 

 before the expuriment, were taken. Two were used without water 

 plant or snail as crmtrol. The other jai-s contained snails and water 

 plant as follow.s: one without water plant but with one full-grown 

 snail, one without water plant but with five snails, one with water 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



431 



Table VIII. 

 Experiment 200. 



Experiment 201. 



Experiment 202. 



plant and no snail, and one with water plant together with two snails. 

 After ten daj-i? the water was analyzed. The following facts seem to be 

 illustrate<l by these experiments: (1) Calcium and chlorides in the 

 water tlo not seem to l)e afTecte<J by the excretions of the snail. (2) 

 In the jar that contained no snails yet contained Myrioph>fllum nearly 

 all the free ammonia was taken up by the water plant. This is a 

 phenomenon well known to botanists (Sachs, '75 ; Bes.sy, '92). 

 Vernon ('99) found that the presence of Uliyi decreasetl the free 

 ammonia, but increased the albuminoid ammonia. 




432 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADE.MY OF 



Table IX — Effect of Excretions. 



[July, 



Table X — Effect of Urea. 




1908.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Table XI — Effect of Numbers. 



433 



Experiment 202 sho^^'s but one fact, i.e., that the amount of excre- 

 tion is roughly proportional to the size of the snail. 



Table XII — Effect of Shell Salts. 




434 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



Effect of Shell Salts. — If it were possible to measure some other 

 physiological process of the snail than growth, another method might 

 be instituted to attack the study of the effect of environment. As it 

 is possible to measure the activity of a certain tissue in the pond snail 

 by the amount of its secretions, a series of experiments were con- 

 ducted. The tissue referred to is the mantle which secretes the shell. 

 With this in mind a few experiments with calcium carbonate, calciiun 

 sulphate, and calcium phosphate. Snails that had been raised in 

 saturated solutions of these salts, which are but slightly soluble in 

 water, were measured ; the results are expressed in Table XII. The 

 salts were suppUed as the pure chemical or as ground-up LynuKsa shell. 

 The results show that calcium sulphate is most beneficial and that the 

 presence of shell salts are favorable to snail growth. Experiments 

 55-56 did not consider that the sediment of the ground mineral might 

 introduce another factor. Experiments 201-204 consider this factor. 

 The fact that each chemical seems to favor a separate flora introduces 

 another factor which makes these experiments most unsatisfactory. 



Number of Individuals. — Semper ('74) and De Varigny ('94) both 

 reported that in two similar jars, one containing one snail and one 

 containing many, the single one grew the larger in every case. This 

 fact was one of Semper's strongest arguments in favor of the presence 

 of an unknown chemical. De Varigny could not explain this result 

 on his exercise theory, so he advanced a psychological theory based on 

 the fact that two snails might annoy each other. He writes: "Mais 

 que pent etre cette influence morale dans le monde des Lymn^es? Le 

 probl^me est embarrassant, et je n'ose decide si la presence de deux 

 Lymn6es gene ou ne gene pas le peregrinations de la troisi^me, etc." 

 (p. 187). 



The result of the experiments reported in Table VI of the present 

 work confirm the results of the authors who have investigated this 

 factor. Discarding both Semper's and De Varigny's explanation, we 

 must turn to a consideration of those of the later authors. Willem 

 ('96) explained the result a.s due to aeration, but it seems rather tiiat 

 Vernon's ('03) explanation is more nearly true. Vernon considers 

 that the toxic influence of accumulations of the waste products of 

 metabolism is the cause of the dwarfing, yet increased aeration will 

 insure more rapid oxidation of those wa.stc products and so remove 

 their harmfulness. 



From what has been said it will be seen that the chemical composi- 

 tion of the water is a very important factor in the rate of growth of 

 Lifmncea. The composition of the water may exert a toxic or a bene- 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



435 



ficial effect on the growing snail. This ha.s been explained in the case 

 of effect of numbers in various ways, but most reasonably by lack of 

 aeration and of composition of the water. It is probable that those 

 two factors work together. 



4. Temperature. — Semper (79) reported that snails chilled were 

 retarded in growth and that growth ceased at 13° C. Walter (*06) 

 found that they became more active in warm water than in cold water. 

 The experiments of Walter ('06) were repeated in the following way: 

 Four large snails 9 mm. and four small snails 1.5 mm. were placed in a 

 glass dish with about 20 cc. of water. Under the dish a piece of cross- 

 section paper was laid, and on another piece of cros.s-section paper the 

 position of each snail was plotted even,- five minutes for a period of 

 three hours. 



For the first hour the dish was in a cold room and the temperature 

 fell from 12^° to 6J° C. The dish was then packed around with ice 

 for half an hour until the temperature fell from 6^° to 3^° C. The 

 dish was then placetl in a warm room for one hour, the temperature 

 rising from 3A° to 17° C. For the next twenty minutes it was placed 

 near a radiator, and the last ten minutes the dish was placed above the 

 radiator, the temperature rising from 17° to 26° C. Fig. 5 shows how 

 the snails were affected, tt represents the temperature curve; the 

 heavy black line the distance in millimeters that the small snails 

 travelled in periods of five minutes; the dotted line indicates the 

 same thing for the large snails. 



Table XI ii. 



The average speed for the .small .snails closely follows that for the 

 large ones. The table sliows several things: (1) that cold applied 




436 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[July, 



rather suddenly stimulates the snail to become active so as to escape 

 from the cold. The same reaction is noticed when heat above the 

 optimum is applied, (2) When the water continued cold the activities 

 decreased. 



Fig. 5. — Temperature and velocity curve of larpe and small Lymmea. [Line 1 1 

 represents temperature in centigrade during three hours. Dotted line rep- 

 resents distance traveled in m.m. in five-minute intervals by the large 

 snails. The solid line shows the same thing for the small ones.] 



The experiments on growth conducted by .Semper did not take into 

 account the effect of cold on the water plant. To eliminate this 

 factor the writer alternate<l the jars with the water i)lant from the 

 warm to the cold at stated intervals, but traasferred the snails from 

 one jar to the other, so that certain snails remained in the warm and 

 certain snails remained in the cold all the time, yet the jai-s that con- 

 tained them were the same, and therefore the amount and condition of 

 the food was similar. 



The manner that cold acts on the growth of Lymntva may be twofold. 

 Cold, as Is so well known, retards the rate of chemical combinatioas and 

 80 retards physiological processes. As growth is a physiological 

 process it Is retarded, and as the activities of the animal arc physio- 

 logical processes they arc also retarded. Growth depends largely on the 

 presence of food, yet the fexxl of LymruBa is acquired only through 

 constant motion, so it might ea-^ily becomodwarfcd, witli abundance of 

 fofxi about it, if conditions should make the snail sluggish, in Lymnwa 

 we have seen that both these factors may be at work, reduced physio- 

 lojrical proce«se« acting directly on growth, or rcducctl activities may 

 actually cause dwarfing by lack of food. 




1908. 



NATUR.\L SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHI.\. 



437 



T.\BLE XIV — Effect of Heat and Cold. 



5. Lighl. — Beginning with Higgenbottom ('50), various writers have 

 conducted experiments on the effect of light on the growth of animals. 

 The work of these authors, inchiding Yung ('7S, '80 and '92), Vernon 

 ('95), Warren ('00) and licchird ('5S), deals largely with the effect of 

 colored light on the development of different animals. The present 

 work con.'^iders the effect of light and darkness alone. Although 

 experiments were uttempte<l with C()lore<l lights, yet the many diflicul- 

 ticH in the shape of uncontrollable factors made the results so unreliable 

 that space will not be taken in discu.s.sing them. Even in the experi- 

 ments on light and darkncs.s the factor of fofnl was with difficulty con- 

 trolle<l. It was only by resorting to similar meaas as in the experi- 

 ment.s (»n temj)erat»nv that this factor was controlled at all. However, 

 this difl not remove all the uncontrolle<l factors present. There was 

 also the chance of there being a different temperature of the water 

 between the two jars; this difference at times amounting to 2° C. 




438 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[July. 



Although the experiments of Walter ('06) and some of the writers 

 seem to indicate that Lymncea is slightly negatively phototactic, yet 

 darkness is prejudicial to growth (Table XV). 



Table XV — Effect of Light axd Dark. 



This factor of light is of less importance than the other external 

 conditions affecting growth, and is one that the snail can directly 

 control to some extent through its behavior, and is also one that can 

 be easily regulated in the laborator}^ It is almost impossible to 

 devise experiments on the effect of light on animals whose food con- 

 sists of green plants, and experiments so conducted can liave little 

 significance. 



6. Area. — According to De Varigny's exercise theory, dwarfing of 

 Lymncea was caused by too little area for the snail to crawl upon. To 

 test the truth of this hypothesis, structures of various shapes were 

 coastructed out of microscopic slides and intrcxluced into one of two 

 similar jars containing snails. As some of the structures were cemented 

 with sealing wax, sealing wax was added to the other jar of the experi- 

 ment, so that there was no difference between the jars, except the fact 

 that one had a larger surface exposed on which the snail could crawl 

 than did the other. The results (Table XVI) were contrary to what 

 might have been expecte<l from De Varigny's hypothesis. It can 

 hardly be that the slides hindered the snails from wandering around ; 

 on the contrary the great area exposed would form a surface on uliidi 

 much more alga; would grow. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 439 



Table XVI. 



h 



This experiment suggests some results reported by Dandino ('04) 

 on tlie effect of to.xic solutions on germinating peas and corn. In 

 toxic solutions (dilute acids) the axldition of rpiartz .'^and (washetl in 

 HCl and distilletl water) was 32 times as toxic as that without the 

 sand. The author explains this fact as the result of surface action. 

 In the present work experiments with (juartz sand and even with 

 pebbles cau-sed an increase in the rate of growth. This is an effect 




440 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[July, 



opposite to that found by Dandino, yet it throws very httle Ught on the 

 bad effects caused by the presence of microscopic sUdes. 



As De Varigny used flat dishes in contrast to spherical flasks, his 

 cases of dwarfing by rearing in a small area can be referred with very 

 little doubt to lack of aeration. 



7, Volume. — Before the preceding series of experiments were com- 

 pleted, so before the bad effect of the presence of microscopic slides 

 was known in experiments with volume, the inside area of the two 

 similar jars was made equal by a structure of slides of calculated area. 

 The amount of water in the two jars was not the same, the smaller 

 volume of water containing the structure of slides. Experiments with- 

 out the structure were later tried, but all the experiments led to the 

 same result (Table XVII) : the snails in the smaller volume were the 

 smaller. 



Table XVll — Effect of Volume. 



Dandino, referred to above, found that in toxic solutions, i.e., weak 

 acids, the rmiicles of peas and corn grew longer in a small volume than 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 441 



in a larger volume. This could be explained by assuming that there is 

 but a definite amount of toxin present to act on the seed. With the 

 snail, however, the case is revei-sed. The toxin, which we have shown 

 in the preceding sections. to be present, is ever being increased in 

 quantity by the secretioiLS of the animal. In the case of the seedling the 

 solution becomes weaker and weaker. 



Pearl and Dunbar ('05) found that Paramecium in small vessels were 

 dwarfed. This is due most likely to the accumulation of excreted 

 matter. In fact almost every case of this kind among aquatic animals 

 can be so explained. 



8. Alternation of Conditions. — In connection with some of the experi- 

 ments on heat and cold, a jar was moved from the warm to the cold, and 

 vice versa, at two weekly intervals for a period of two months, with 

 the yery striking result that the alternated snails were larger at the 

 end of that time than those kept in the warm all of the time. This 

 result was accomplished notwithstanding the fact that, when in the 

 cold, the water in the alternate jars was sometimes frozen. This 

 experiment led to a series of experiments in the same line, and although 

 many were as striking as the first, yet the larger snails were those, as a 

 general rule, that had been in the warm room all the time. This con- 

 trol in the warm room was ever}' two weeks transferred to a jar from the 

 cold conditions, while at the same time the jar in which they had been 

 living was placed in the cold and snails that had lived in the cold all the 

 time addetl. This process of changing the snails was performed every 

 two weeks or ever\'' week. The interval of alternation is given in the 

 tables. See Tables VIII-XX. Not only were alternate conditions 

 of heat and cold considere<^l, but also alternating conditions of starving 

 and feeding and light and dark. The latter experiments are not of 

 particular interest, as the alternateil snails are purely intermediate 

 in size between those under favorable and those under unfavorable 

 conditioas. The starving and feeding experiment.^, however, closely 

 approximated those of heat and cokl. .Some were larger and some 

 were smaller than the control. These results must mean that the 

 change from an unfavorable to a favorable comlition cau.ses the snail to 

 grow faster than if it were continually in the favorable condition. 



0. Experiments on Tadpoles. — .\s Yung ('S.5) porforme<l some experi- 

 ments on the effect of external conditions on tiulpoles. arriving at the 

 same conclusion as did Willcm ('96), i.*'., that dwarfing was caused by 

 lack of aeration, the writer, using the methods (ic^cribed in the prece<l- 

 ing pages, repeated these experiments with tadpoles of Rana in the 

 spring of 1907. 




442 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Table XVIII — Alternate Heat and Cold. 



[July, 



Table XIX — Alternate Light and Dark. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Table XX — Alterx.\te Starving and Feeding. 



443 



Ex. Davs. 



No No. ■ 

 beg. end. 



Vaj-iable. 



CoQstant. 



Size. Dif. 



Per 

 cent. 



The results — which may be clas-setl as follow.s: effect of artificial aera- 

 tion, of .surface aeration, of volume, of number of individuals — were 

 exactly the same as those found for Lymncea. 



VI. Effect of External Conditions on the Number of Eggs Laid. 



To supplement the experiments on the effect of external conditions on 

 growth, and to observe the effect of external conditions on some 

 phy.siological process rather different from growth, the following series 

 of experiments was arrangetl. When adult Lymncea is brought into 

 the warm laboratory' in the lat€ winter or early spring it lays an im- 

 mcn.se number (jf fertile eggs. This fact was ma<le the basis of some 

 experiments. Snails gathered at such a time were place<l under 

 various conditions and the number of eggs laid during a given time 

 recorded. Conditions that one would not consider to have any effect 

 whatever on fertility were quite effective in their results. 



1. Sediment. — As we have seen on j). 424, the presence of .setliment 

 is beneficial to snail growth, yet the presence of se<liment is also of 

 wlvantage in increasing the fertility of the snail. 



Four adult snails were isolato<l in four jars with a small amount of 

 selimcnt, and four jars were similarly treate<l without the .setliment. 

 At the end of some days the eggs in each jar were countetl. See Table 

 .\XI. 




444 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Table XXI. 



[July, 



The total of 162 in favor of the sediment is quite striking, against the 

 total of 5S eggs without sediment, yet the small number of snails in the 

 experiment must not be overlooked. As the writer did not have a 

 chance to repeat this experiment its value is only suggestive. 



2. Number of bulividuals. — In each of seven jars with Ceratophyllum 

 was placed a single snail. In seven other jars similarly arranged were 

 placed two snails each. In ten days the seven snails in seven jars 

 laid 1 ,149 eggs. The fourteen snails in seven jars laid 1,277 eggs. 



The result of this experiment is similar to the growth experiment. 

 In other words two snails in a jar together do not lay twice as 

 many eggs as a single individual, but each snail lays only half as many 

 eggs as when it is alone in the jar. Thus again is illustrated the bad 

 effect of the presence of the waste products of metabolism in the water. 



3. Effect of Liriht. — In each of twelve similar jars one snail was 

 place<i and Ceratophyllum was added to each jar. Six jare were placed 



T.VBLE XXII, 




1908. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



445 



in diffused daylight and six in the dark. During the daytime the jar 

 in the Hght had the temperature about two degrees higher than those 

 in the dark. As the snails were of slightly different sizes, all the 

 jars were placed in a row with the snails in series from the largest to 

 the smallest. Ever}' other jar was then put in the dark. The experi- 

 ment ran 8 tlays. In the following table the number of egg capsules 

 laid and the total number of eggs per individual is indicated. One 

 snail died in the dark and one died in the light. Both are left out of 

 account in the table. 



It will be seen that those in the light laid nearly twice a^ many eggs 

 as in the (lark. 



5. Other Effects and Observations. — .Snails brought into the labora- 

 tory from the pontls lay at first a great number of eggs in a single egg 

 case, and the masse.s laid subsequently contain fewer and fewer eggs. 

 (See Table XXIII.) Placing two individuals together does not have an 

 effect of revivifying the fertility of the snail, but has the opposite 

 effect. 



Table XXIII. 



Tabic nhowiii); the nuinbtir of eggs in successively laid egg cases after the snuil 



i» brought into a warm room from out of doors in the wlnti-r time. 



Tlic last eggs laid l)y these snails are sometimes quite al)n()rmal. 

 Sf)metimcs the eggs are fu.sed, sometimes there is a capsule or a ntim- 

 l)er of small capsules without a single egg. 

 2ft 




446 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Julv, 



Some snails prefer to la}' their eggs on the water plant, others always 

 lay their eggs on the glass jar, while still others show no preference at 

 all. 



VII. Summary of the Conclusions. 



1. The effect of Mijriophyllum and of Elodca on the growth of Lym- 

 ncea is quite complex. That it is not a simple factor that is being dealt 

 with is indicated by the inconstancy of the results of the experiments. 

 Notwithstanding the fact that one factor has been isolated, yet it is 

 probable that there are other factors besides. This determined factor 

 is the presence or absence of sand in the so-called "gizzard." In the 

 latter case plant tissue, although ingested cannot be assimilated, so 

 that the snail is smaller because it actually lacks food. On the other 

 hand it is possible that the products of plant metabolism may have a 

 harmful effect on the growing snail. 



2. The accumulations of foecal matter of Lymncea, instead of having 

 the harmful effect on growth as described by De Varigny ('94), when 

 washed and filtered, have a beneficial effect. These tangled masses 

 of unassimilated food form a great harbor for algte, and so increase the 

 food supply of the snail. 



3. The "original planting" of the aquarium, i.e., alga? accidentally 

 introduced with the water, causes great variation in the size of the 

 snails. 



4. Experiments on artificial aeration confirm the conclusions of Yung 

 and Willem;yet experiments on surface aeration do not seem so clear. 



5. Vernon reported that Echinoderm larvaB raised in solutions in 

 which other larva) had been raised were dwarfed. De Varigny fonnd 

 the same tiling true for Lymmca. lOxperiments on Lymmva colu?nclla 

 confirm the results of the two authore referred to. Weak solutions 

 were found beneficial and concentrated solutions harmful. Experi- 

 ments asing urea gave the same result. Why dilute solutions of 

 excreted matter and urea are beneficial and concentrated solutions are 

 harmful may be explained in the following way. The presence of the 

 excretions which contain plant food may cause more algio, snail food, 

 to grow; on the other hand the solutions are harmful to snail growth. 

 In dilute solutioas, however, the quantity of toxic substance may be 

 80 little harmful that an increase of food will overhahuice the iiarniful 

 effect. However, this explanation is not very satisfactory as the 

 Kchino<lerm larva experiment (m I on by Vernon liad no mouth and so 

 did not eat. 



6. As Semper aufl De Varigny showed, the number of individuals in 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELrHIA. 447 



a jar affect the rate of growth. The cause is probably due to increased 

 secretions and perhaps to diminished aeration. 



7. Calcium salts in the water seem on the whole beneficial to growth 

 — calcium sulphate particularly so. 



8. Growth of Lj/mncoa is inhibited by cold, as Semper reported. This 

 factor may act in two ways — directly on the physiological processes of 

 the animal and indirectly through the inability to procure food, the 

 snail bec(iming too sluggish to search for it. 



9. Area. The cause that De Varigny advanced to explain dwarfing 

 was lack of exercise on the part of the snail. The greater the place to 

 crawl, the greater the snail. However, when aeration was kept con- 

 stant, which De N'arigny failed to do, the results were not significant. 



10. Volume. That the volume of the medium affects the growth of 

 Lymna'a is certain. Willem explains the fact on the ground of aeration. 

 The author accej)ts this view, but considers that the more concentrated 

 excretioas in smaller volumes must play an equal part. 



11. Alternate Conditions. Snails under imfavorable conditions 

 when placed under fa\'orable ones grow faster than if they were con- 

 tinuou.sly in favorable conditions. It would seem that the change 

 from unfavorable to favorable conditions of life acts a.s a stimulant for 

 growth. However, this does not always mean that it surpai^ses the 

 control size. It rarely does that. 



12. Not only does the environment affect growth, but it affects the 

 number of eggs laid in a given time. This fact is very important. 

 becau.se it shows that the environment probably affects all the physio- 

 logical processes and not one alone. 



13. This study reveals the fact that confinement influences tjie 

 growth of aquatic animals in three ways — through the amount of fooil, 

 through the amount of oxygen and through the accumulations of tjie 

 waste products of metabolism. The i)henomenon is not a simple one 

 and each factor plays its own part. 



Literature Referred to. 



Hksskv, C. 10. Isn2. Botany, TtlnHlition. 



HitiMKMKiKii, H. isns. ."^lisMwaxstTsclincckcn hI.s rianktoiifiscln'r. Forch-Brr 

 Hiol.Sta. lMoii.,Tli. VI.p. Ki.",. 



('ix>WE8, v., an<l Coi.KMAN, J. H. 1<K):{. (^)ii!mtitafivo Clioniioil .Nrialysis, p. 3l.'3. 



(^ooKK, \. W. lsn.5. ('uinl)ri(lpi' Natural History, Mollusk.i, pp. IM-*)".';. 



CuviKH. 1S17. Mt'-nioire Hiir Ic Limn«''<'ct Ic l'laiiorl>c. 



Dandino, J. H. 1004. Itolatioii of Ma.s.s .Vction «n<l Pliy.sical .VfTinity to 

 Toxicity, witli Inridfiital I )i.scussioii>' a.s to Jmw far IJrclrolytir DiHHociation 

 may hi; Involved. .\in. Jour. Si-i., \'ol. .WII. \\\\ scri< .«. p. 137. 



Davkni'oiit, f. H. 1899. Iv\|HTinK'i»taI Morphology. XOl. II, pp. 173-478. 




448 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF ['Tulv, 



FoREL. 1S74. Matciiaux pour servir k retudc de hi faunc profonde du lac 

 Leman. Bull. Soc. Vaud. 8ci. Nat., t. XII, p. 72. 



. 1904. La U'inan, p. 103. 



Hyatt, A. ISSO. C'liaiiges in tlie Shell of I.ymna'a niegasoma produced by 



Confinement. Am. Nat., ^'ol. XIV, p. 51. 

 Hogg, J. 1854. Observations on the Development and Growth of the Water 



Snail Lvmn;Eus stagiiahs. Quar. Jour. Mie. Sei., A'ol. II, p. 91. 

 Moquix-Tandox. 1855. Histoire Naturelle des Mollusques terrestres et fluvia- 



tiles de France, Paris, 1. 1, p. 81. 

 Pearl, R., and Duxbar. F. J. Some Results of a Studv of Variation in Para 



mecium. Mich. Acad, of Sci., 7th Ann. Rep. 

 R.\.TH.AV, E. 1S9S. Ueber den Frass von Helix hortensis auf Baumrinden. Zeit 



f. Pfanzenkr., Bd. VIII, p. 129. 

 Sachs, J. 1S75_. A Text-book of Botany, Oxford, Eng. trans., p. C21. 

 Semper, C. 1874. Ueber cUe AVachstliums-Bcdingungen des Lvmnieus stag- 



nalis. Arb. Zool.-Zoot. Inst., Wurzburg, Bd. I, pp. 138-1(57. 



. 1S79. Animal liife. International Scientific Series, pp. 160-167. 



Sterki, V. 1895. Food of the Linmieida-. Nautilus, \'ol. \, p. 94. 



DE Varigxi-, H. 1892. Experimental Evolution. Nature Series, pp. 79-88. 



. 1894. Recherches sur Ic nanisme experimental. Contribution a I'etude 



de I'influence du milieu sur les organismes. Jour. Anat. et Phvs., Paris, 



t. XXX, pp. 147-188. 

 . 1895. Note sur le period de croissance chez Lymna?a stagnalis. Bull. 



Mus. Hist. Nat., Paris, t. I, pp. 131-132. 

 ^'ERXox, H. M. 1895. Eft'ects of Environment on the Development of Echi- 



nodenn Larvic. Pliil. Trans. Rov. Soc. London, Vol. CLXXXVI, pp. 577- 



632. 

 . 1899. The Relations between Animal and Vegetable Life. Mitth. aus 



der Zool. Sta. zu Neapel, Bd. XIII, p. 334. 



. 1903. ^'ariation in Animals and Plants. Int. Nat. Sci. Series. 



Walter, H. E. 1906. Behavior of tlie Pond Snail Lymnreus elodes. Cold 



Spring Harbor Monographs, \'I. 

 Warrex. 1900. C'.ianges in Environment of Daphnia. ()uar. Jour, of Mic. 



Sci., Vol. XLIII, p. 212. 

 Whitfield. 1882. Description of Lynma^i megasoma Say, with an Account of 



Clianges pr(:Kluce<i in tlie Offspring bv Unfavorable Conditions of Life. Bull. 



.\m. Mus. Nat. Hist., Vol I, p. 29. 

 WiLLEM, V. 1896. Observations sur la respiration cutan6c des Lymn<^es et 



.son influence sur leur croissance. Bull, de I'Acad. Rov. des Sci. Brussels, 



t. XXXII, p. 566. 

 Yung, E. 1878. Contril)Utions ii I'liistoirc de Tinfluence des milieux physiques 



sur Ics etres viviints. .Vrch. Zf)()l. Exper. et Gen., t. MI, pp. 251-282." 

 . 1880. De riiidiKMice des lumieres colorees sur le developpement des 



animaux. .Mittb. a. d. Zool. Stat, zu Neapel, Bd. II, pp. 23.3-237. 

 -. 1885. De rinflunicc des \ariations du miheu pliy.sico-cheniic]ue sur le 



developpement des animaux. .Vrch. des Sci. Phvs. et Nat., t. AH', pp. 



.502-522. 

 . 1888. Ointributions k I'liistoire phvsiologique de I'escargot (Helix 



pomatia). M.in. ("our., t. XLIX, p. 119." 

 . 1892. Comp. Kciid.. C.XV, pp. f;20, 621, Octolier 21. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILu\DELPHlA. 449 



THE DIRECTIVE INFLUENCE OF LIGHT ON THE GROWTH OF FOREST PLANTS 

 BY JOHN W. HARSHBERGER, PH.D. 



It is a well-known fact that light exercises a directive influence upon 

 plants. This directive influence is called heliotropism, or photo- 

 tropism. When a plant is grown in the window of a room, so that it 

 is unequally illuminated, that is, more powerfully through the window, 

 its leaves and even its stem are turned toward the incident rays of 

 light. This is known as positive heliotropism. If the common English 

 ivy, Iledera helix, be grown in pot.s by a north window, so as to 

 emphcosize better the difference in ligiit intoni=itics, in about four 

 weeks it will be apparent that the growing sprouts are bending toward 

 the inner part of the room , away from the stronger light. This reaction 

 is negative heliotropism. 



The growth of forest plants is largely a question of Ught relationship. 

 Foresters recognize this fact and group trees into those intolerant of 

 the shade and those that are tolerant. The herbaceous plants, like- 

 wise, are influenced by the light which filters through the crown of 

 leaves above. The herbaceous spring flora of the forest requires more 

 light than the relatively few plants which flower in the aiitumn require, 

 when the trees are covered with foliage. These facts, although they 

 can be proved e.xperimentally, are not always demonstrable to the 

 uninitiated. One of the best illustrations that the writer has seen 

 is the directive influence of light upon the leaves, or fronds, of the hay- 

 scented fern, Dicksonia pilosiuscula (= Dcnnstcedlia punctilobvla), 

 which is widely distribute<l on open hillsides from New Brunswick and 

 Ontario to Indiana and Minnesota, south to Alabama and Tennessee, 

 ascending to 1680 m. in Virginia. The stipes of this fern are pale 

 green and chaffless. covere<l with fine hairs, and the leaves (10 dm. 

 long, 12-20 cm. wide) are ovate-lanceolate, acute or acuminate, fre- 

 quently long attenuate, usually tri-pinnatifid, thin and delicate in 

 the woods, tougher, more inrolled and more erect in the sun ; rachis and 

 under surface of blades glandular pulx^cent. The observations 

 which the writer wishes to record on the directive influence of light 

 upon the position of the fronds were made at Pocono Pines, Monroe 

 County, Pennsylvania, where this fern is one of the most abundant 

 species. As the photograph will show (PI. XXIV), the \ipper surfaces 




450 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AugUSt, 



of the leaves are turned toward the light, if the illumination is one- 

 sideil. If the illumination is from all sides of the fern clump, then 

 there is no jiaiticular direction in which the leaf-blades face. The 

 one-sided illumination is obtainetl when the ferns grow along the 

 edge of the woods, composed in the Pocono region of ^hite pines, 

 white birches, black spruces, beeches and maples, which on account of 

 their dense crown cut off much of the light from behind and above, 

 so that such woods can be called appropriately dark woods. The 

 photograph shows how all the leaves of a single patch are turned o\it- 

 ward toward the open field adjoining the woods, in obedience to the 

 directive influence of the light, so that the leaves stand, row after row, 

 all facing in one direction. 



The second and more striking example of the directive influence of 

 light is illustrated by the hobble-hush, Viburnuyn lantanoides {= V. 

 alnifolium), a shrub which ranges from Xew Brunswick to North Caro- 

 lina, western Xew York and ^lichigan, but which does not occur in the 

 woods near the City of Philadelphia. In the dark pine woods on the 

 Pocono plateau tliis shrub is extremely abimdant, and where the 

 woods are the densest, not only are all of the branches and the leaves 

 directed by the incident rays of light, but they show permanent 

 structural changes which are induced by the directive light influence. 

 It is known that light has a most notable influence in the determina- 

 tion of the external form of a large number of plants. The develop- 

 ment of certain tissues or organs on one side of the axis of a shoot, 

 and their suppression on other parts of the plant body, may be regu- 

 lated experimentally by means of the character of the illumination. 

 This development of tissues on one side of the axis is illustrated finely 

 in the branches of adult forest-grown specimens of the lK)l)l)le-bush. 

 If we examine young shrubs of this i)lant, illustrated in IM. X.W, 

 fig. 7, we see thai the branching .system follows the method of a dicha- 

 sium. The leaves in such young bushes stand ])erfectly horizontal, 

 HO as to receive the incident rays of light on the upper surface of the 

 blade, and so a.s to present their profile to the observer standing in 

 front of the plant. As fig. shows, they arrange themselves, when 

 viewed from above, in the pattern of a leaf mosaic, so that none of the 

 leaves overshadow the others. Such plants merely show the directive 

 influence of tlu! light on the leaves, without showing any characteristic 

 growth difTerences. The same influence of light is manifested in the 

 Ht^jloniferous branches which strike root, and which give the conunon 

 names hobble-bush or trip-toe to the plant (fig. S). These plagio- 

 tropous shoots are only forme<l in the shade, 'i'hc dimini.shed light 




1908.] NATURAL SCIKNCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 451 



can be better used by such branches, to which the moist soil offers at 

 the same time an opportuntity to root. Such plagiotropous stolons 

 with elongated internodes show, however, orthotropous branches, 

 and we, therefore, have on the same shrub branches which react 

 differently to the light, some that are stoloniferous and plagiotropic, 

 others that are leaf-bearing and orthotropic. After a time, however, 

 the bushes assume a difTerent habit by a suppression of parts, so that 

 the older stems show two horizontally directed branches (plagiotropic), 

 which separate from the common stem in a dichotomous manner. 

 Now if we examine figs. 1 and 2 of PI. XXV, we see that all of the lateral 

 spurs that are formed from such a plagiotropic branch are placed on the 

 upper side (orthotropous), where their leaves receive to the best advan- 

 tage the light wliich filters down through the leafy canopy above. 

 Each segment of such a branch represents a sympodium, where there 

 are a series of phytons placed one after the other in serial order. By 

 this method of sympodial branching, each new branch with the sup- 

 pression of a bud on the other side and torsion of the axis, terminates 

 in a leafy extremity, and the elongation of the branch according to 

 this arrangement depends on a lateral bud (fig. 3). In this case clearly, 

 as all of the leaves are directed dorsiventrally by light relationship, 

 the permanent branching system is determined largely by the influence 

 which the light has had in producing a one-sided growth of the lateral 

 dichotomous branches of the adult plants. The fruit stands vertically 

 above the broad, cordate leaves, as shown in figs. 4 and 5. Attention 

 might be directed in closing to the color change which takes place in 

 the loaves with the approach of autumn. The leaves become bronzed 

 to a greater or less extent. Sometimes the bronze is in the form of 

 blotches. In other leaves one side is bronze<l, the other side is green, 

 and in many examples the whole leaf rapidly bronzes. What induces 

 the bronzing of one side of the leaf first, while the other side remains 

 of a bright green color? Is it a light reaction? The photograph in 

 PI. XX I\' was taken by Mrs. Ilarshbergcr; the drawings ivpriKlucetl 

 in I'l. XXV were made from rough drawings and data furnished Mr. 

 Louis Schmidt by the writer. 




452 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [AllgUSt, 



A COMPARISON OF THE LAND-SNAIL FAUNA OF KOREA WITH THE FAUNAS 

 OF JAPAN AND CHINA. 



BY HKNRY A. riLSIUtY. 



The compilation of a list of Korean laiul mollusks gives occasion for 

 a comparison of that fauna with the faunas of China and Japan. In 

 the list of Korean land snails published b}' Dr. O. von Moellendorff in 

 1SS7/ some 26 species are catalogued; of this number, 7 are stated to 

 be common to Japan, 3 to China, and 2 (omitting the doubtful Helix 

 ciliosa) to both countries. 



The fruitful researches conducted b}- Mr. Y. Hirase have increased 

 the roll of known Korean forms to 58. This number is no doubt a 

 mere fragment of the total fauna; yet it is enough to show the tlomi- 

 nance of Japanese over Chinese forms in Korea. This preponderance 

 can only be explained by the theory that the submergence of the 

 straits between Kyushu and Korea is a geologicall}'- recent event. 

 From the large proportion of Japanese species existing in Korea, this 

 submergence may probably have taken place not earlier than the 

 Pliocene. 



Twenty-one Japanese species occur in Korea and (^uelpart. Seven 

 Chinese species occur in Korea and Quelpart. Four of these species 

 are common to Japan and China. The great preponderance of char- 

 acteristically Japanese over Chinese species is thus evident. Thirty- 

 two species and sul)species, out of a total of fifty-eight, are peculiar 

 to Korea including Quelpart. 



So much for the nvunerical relations of the species. The famuis may 

 also be compared qualitatively. All of tiie genera and subgenera of 

 the Kf)rean faima occiu' in Japan. In the Claiisillida; all tlic species 

 of Quelpart and Korea belong to Euphwdusa, a group of minor inijjort- 

 ance in Japan, but extending farther north on the Asiatic mainhuid 

 than any other group of Clausiliie. The genus GancscUa, well reprc- 

 8cnte<i in Japan, seems to l)c al)sent in Korea, imless the species 

 described as Helix (Satsuma) gradata proves to belong to GancscUa, 

 which seom.s improbable. The absence of GancscUa and of Clansiliida', 

 other than Eupha:dusa, are the most conspicuous discrepancies between 



• JahrbQcher d. DeuUchen Malakotoologiachen GcscUncliajt, XIV, 18S7, pp. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIESCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 453 



the faunae ci Quelpart and Tsudiima. By the prevalence (^ Hemx- 

 phmdusa, GaneuUa and Pledolrapis, Tsushima is wfadly Jipanese in 

 its snail fauna, while Quelpart is as unequivocally Korean. The 

 political boundaiies of Japap and Korea coincide therefore with the 

 faunal limits. The lazgdy deforested conditicm o( Qudpait and Korea 

 is probaUy resix>nsible for its rather poor land shell fauna. 



In the following table, the "Korea" column is ccnnpiled from Dr. 

 von ModlendorfiTs paper and the coUecticms €i Xr. Hirase, deter- 

 mined by the author. The cc^umn "Korean Archipdago" contains 

 a few species reported with that indefinite locality by Pfoffer and A. 

 Adams. The "Quelpart" ccJumn contains species Cf^lected by ^Ir. 

 Kuroda, part of them identified by the writer, the others quoted from 

 Mr. Kuroda's list.' The "Matsushima" (Dagelet Island) species were 

 recorded by Arthur Adams, who visited that island when surgecm on 

 board H. M. S. "Actaon-" In the ccJumn <rf "Remarks" sundrj' 

 notes on the affinities of the species find jJace. 



* The Conduilogical Magazine. IT, June. 190$. pp. 25-29. 




454 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[August, 



CO 



Kl 



6q 



.Si _o 



M CO 



tjq 





•iredBf 



'vmiqsns^vpj 



* * * * * 



I I 



I I I I I I I I I I I I I M U I I I I I I I I ! I 



•^jBd|3n^ 



* I* I** I* I 1 1** I I* I 1 I I 1* I 



•o2B]8diqoJV 



I I I I I II I M I l« I I I I I I I I M I I I 



I I* I !*»*» |»* |»* I I 



* * * * * * * 



I I 



•OTiqo 



I I II I I* I II I I II I II I I I I I I II I 



3 



•= 5 



o 



CO 





5 -^ 





0,0 C^ 



II 



I 




190S.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



455 



S o 











"5 eS 









M i2 c 



* I I I !♦ I I I* I |«« 



v?.<> 





I i 



I* 



^ 



I I I I I I I I I I I M I I I I I I I I I* I I I I I I I I 



••♦»♦•• 



I I j I I I I I I * * I I I I I I I I I M M I I I M I I 



I I 



***** » « ** 



I \* * * \* I 



****** 



I I 



« « 



I I 



c 5 * 



2§S 





M ."3 

 - fc i «5 



CU 2 ^ C 

 « ST « 



Saj 





:t:^^-<' 





i 



5j3 ~ 



2 r; 'r* t 5 « a^' 5 "5 s c g "5 c '-:: 



>- 'S s **" ~: >•" i. . 



■^^ c „-5i. 



^"li 



2.^-2.C^:2 





• - « • 

 •5: *- 







§ ^ 



a ©-2 ^ 



5^3 



c > 2 



2.s.i 

 lit 




456 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



October 6. 

 Mr. Frank J. Keeley in the Chair. 



Twelve persons present. 



The Secretaries, Librarian and Curators reported on the work accom- 

 plished during the summer vacation. 



The Pubhcation Committee reported that papers under the fol- 

 lowing titl&s had been presented for publication since the last meeting: 



" Description of Trachj'pterus seleniris, a New Species of Ribbon 

 Fish from Monterey Bay, California," by John Otterbein Snvder 

 (May 30). 



"Some Polychaetous Annelids from the Northern Pacific Coast of 

 North America," by J. Percy Moore (June 16). 



".\n Orthopterological Reconnaissance of the Southwestern United 

 States: Part II, Arizona," bv James A. G. Rehn and Morgan Hebard 

 (June 26). 



"Not&s on the Distribution of Colorado Mammals, with a Descrip- 

 tion of a New Species of Bat (Eptesicus pallid us)," by Robert T, 

 Young (July 16). 



" Some Effects of Environment on the Growi:h of Lymna^a columella 

 Say," by Harold Sellers Colton (July 25). 



"The Directive Influence of Light on the Growth of Forest Plants," 

 by John W. Harshberger. Ph.D. (August 9). 



"A Comparison of the Land-Snail Fauna of Korea with the Faunas 

 of Japan and China," by Henry A. Pilsbrj' (September 5). 



"The Composition and Ecological Relations of the Odonate Fauna 

 of Mexico and Central America," by Philip P. Calvert (September 17). 



The deaths of the following members were announced : Sanuiel 

 G. Rosengarten, May 15, 1908; Stephen Greene, May 21, 1908; Benja- 

 min Bullock, March 4, 1908; Elizabeth S. Bladen. August 19, 1908; 

 Jacob F. Holt, AugiLst S, 1908, and William (1. Fivcdly. October 3, 

 1908. 



In announcing the death of William S. \alx, Jr., which occurred 

 July 23, 1908, the Secretary rcmarke<l that it inflicted a loss of whicii 

 the Academy is immediately conscious. He was born .April 1, 

 1S72, an«i continued the traditions of his family by nuuiif«'sting an 

 active interest in the work and well-i)oing of the Academy. He con- 

 tributed to the Proceedings, in conjunction with his brother, important 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 457 



report.s on glacier movements in the Canadian Rockies. He served 

 as Curator .since January, 1905, and gave special attention, valuable 

 because of his ability as an architect, to the plans for the alteration and 

 extension of the premises made possible by the recent appropriation 

 of SI 50.000 by the Legislature of Pennsylvania. His singularly 

 engaging pereonality and amiable disposition endeared him to his 

 associates, and the Academy deeply sympathizes with the loss liis 

 family has sustained in his untimely death. 



The deaths of the following Correspondents were also announced: 

 Spiridione Brusina. May 21. 1908, and Gustav Mayer, July 14, 1908. 



OcTonKU 20. 

 Arthur Erwix Browx, Sc.D., \'ice-President, in the Chair. 



Eighteen persons present. 



The Publication Committee reported the reception of a paper entitled 

 "A Review of the Genus Piaya Lesson,'' by Witmer Stone (October 14). 



Recent Additions to Our Knowledye of the Flora of Southern New 

 Jersey. — Mr. Wit.mku Stone base<l his remarks on the work of the 

 Piiiladelphia Botanical Clui), especially during the past few yeare. 



Taking Dr. Britton's Catalogue of the Flora of New Jersey, pubiishetl 

 in 1S89. he stated tliat twent3'-six pharierogams and ptcridophytes 

 had been adcknl In' tiie Club since that date, exclusive of the numerous 

 subdivisions that have been made of older sj)eci(^ or closely allied 

 species n<jt recognizcnl as distinct by Dr. Britton. Uf the latter he 

 had listed fifty-five not in Dr. liritton's Catalogue and doubtless there 

 are others. Introduced or naturalized plants were not considered in 

 either enumeration. The twenty-six species were as follows, the 

 nomenclatvu'e following Britton's .Maiuial: 



Ophinijlossnm armarium. — Originally discovered by .Mi's. E. G. 

 liritton. July 'A, 1N97. at Holly lieach, and later extcnninateil by a 

 building operation. This sjiecies was re<liscovered during the jjresent 

 year by Mr. Jaseph Crawford at Loiigport, and by .Mr. Hayard Long 

 at Spray Jieach. 



Drynptcri.'i simulata. — DiscovercKl several yeai*s ago at Clementon 

 by .Mr. Stewardson liniwn; later found at Sicklerville, Cedar Brook, 

 1 )ouble Trouble, and Forke<l River. 



Isoetcs dodyci. — Collectcnl at I'ish House, on the Delaware, by Mr. 

 W. A. I'oyser. 



Alismo /r»r//j/w.— Discovertnl in August, 1907. on the border (»f a 

 pond a short distance above Delanco by .Messi-s. Brown, \'an Pelt 

 and Stone. In the same pon<l grew Scirpus lorreyi, new to the State, 




458 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



ami Elcochiiris robbinsii, which had not before been found out of the 

 pine barrens, while on the swampy margin occurred Eleocharis melano- 

 cnrpa. a species not before detected by the Club. It was found to be 

 rooting at the tips of the leaves like E. rostellata. The occurrence 

 of so many new or rare species in one spot was remarkable. 



Mdnisuris rugosa. — Discovered in southwestern Cape Mav Coimtv, 

 by Mr. 0. H. Brown. August. 190S. 



Paspalum glabratiaii. — P'ound in September, 1891, at Cape May 

 by several members of the Club; since discovered at Cold Spring. 



Panicum comlcnsum Nash. — Collected at Piermont,vSeptember 1.1902, 

 by the speaker, and by Mr. S. S. Van Pelt at Holly Beach; since foimd 

 at Cold Spring ( = ' Brachiaria digilariouJcs' Stone, Torreya, 1907, p. o9). 



Cfuvtochloa ftiagna. — Collectetl near Cape May Point in August, 1S91, 

 by the speaker. 



Saccolcpis gibba. — Found on the shores of Lily Lake, Cape ^lay 

 Point, by Mr. C. S. Williamson. September. 1905. 



Aristida lanosa. — Found at Medford, X. J., bv Messrs. W. Stone and 

 S. Brown. September 15, 1901. 



Sporobolus longifolius. — Discovered September, 1908, at Cape Ma}- 

 by Mr. O. H. Brown. 



Gymnopogon brevifolius. — Found by Mr. C. D. Lippincott at Swedes- 

 boro, September 2, 1894, and later at Cape May, by Mr. O. H. Brown. 



Agrostis coarctata. — Discoveral bv the late U. C. Smith at Anglesea, 

 July 4, 1907. 



Cyperus pseiiclorcgetus. — Found by Mr. C. D. Lippincott at Riddle- 

 ton, September 16, 1894, and still plentiful at the same spot. 



Eleocharis intersh'ncta. — Discovered by the late Dr. J. B. Hrinton at 

 Repaupo, July 15, 1K92. 



Eleocharis ochrcata. — Found at Cai)o Mav Point, September, 1905, 

 by Mr. S. S. Van Pelt. 



Scirpus torreyi. — Detected by the speaker at Delanco as stated above. 



Rynchnsporn oligantha. — Found at Speedwell, in the heart of the pine 

 barren.^, by Mr. S. S. \'an Pelt, July. 19()(). 



Rynchospora rariflnra. — Discoveretl by the speaker west of Bennett, 

 Cape May County. August 4, 1(K)7. 



Juncus sitdcrus. — First 'collected by Mr. Joseph Crawford in Cape 

 May County, July 15, 1892, and later found to be rather jilentiful in 

 that section. 



Gymruin/lmiopsis nivca. — Found by Mr. Bayard Long near Bennett. 

 Cape May CViunty, July 24, 1907. It was later found to be plentiful 

 over a lirnite<l area. 



QxuTcus michauxi. — Found by Messrs. Stewardson Brown and 

 Ivlward Harris at Moorestown. October, 1902. 



Rnnux htistdtulus. — Discovered at Lojigport by .Me^si-s. Josepli 

 Crawford and Stewardson lirown. June '2'i, 1907. 



liradburifd rirginicd. — Discovered bv the late J. I'>. Hriiitoii, .M.l).. 

 at Holly licach,'July 24. 1K92. 



BoUonia asttrouUs. — Found by Mr. Long growing with Gyvinan- 

 dcniopsia niveti; known before from New Jersey only as an intrrMluced 

 species. 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADHLI'HIA. 459 



Senecio crawfordii. — Originally discovered at Tullytown. Pa., this 

 species has recently been found at several points on the Xcw Jersey 

 side of the river. 



Among rare species marked in Dr. Britton's Catalogue as not recently 

 collected several have been rediscovered : 



Triglochin maritima was found at Point Pleasant bv Mr. Stewardson 

 lirown, July 22, 1902. 



Tofuidid racemosa, collected by Mr. C. F. Saunders between Atsion 

 and Tuckerton on July 4, 1S99. and later found in abundance at several 

 places near Speetlwell and at Higii Bridge by the speaker. 



LiUfopsis lineata. — Perhaps the most interesting discovery of the 

 present year was the finding by Mr. ^'an Pelt and the speaker of this 

 obscure little plant about a mile below Palermo, where a fresh spring 

 bubbles up out of the salt mai^sh, making a hard sandy bottom which 

 was literally covered with Lilccopsis. The plant has been unknown 

 from the State since its discoveiy by Thomas Nuttall, nearly one 

 hundrfHJ yeai-s ago, "in a salt mai^sh near Egg Harbor." As the 

 f)resent si)ot is only a few miles from the shore of Kgg Harbor it is 

 cpiite possible that it is Xuttall's original locality 



Tlic fdlldwing was ordered to be printed: 




460 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



the composition and ecological relations of the odonate fauna 

 of mexico and centhal america. 



by philip p. c.\lvert. 



Contents. 



General Conditions determining Odonate Distribution. 



The Chief Odonatological Features of Mexico and Central -\merica. 



Relations of the Mexican-Central American Odonate Fauna to those of other 



Areas. 

 Distribution of the Odonata \\"itliin limited portions of Mexico and Central 



America. 

 Relations of the Odonate Fauna of Mexico and Central America to Temperature, 



Rainfall, Vegetation Areas and .Altitude. 



The preparation of an extended account^ of the Odonata of Mexico 

 and Central America has induced me to study the relations of these 

 insects to various factors of their environment, with the results here 

 set forth. The facts on which this study is based, in so far as the 

 Odonata arc concerned, are contained in the Biologia volume, to 

 which reference must be made for further details. Since the comple- 

 tion of that work, I have received, through the kindness of Mr. H. T. 

 Van Ostrand , specimens of Enallagma prcevarum, Oplonceschna armata 

 and Sympetruyn illotum virgulum, taken at or near Real del Monte, 

 Hidalgo, Mexico, which add to our knowledge of the distribution of 

 these three species as given in the Biologia. The first and third are 

 labelled as having been captured at 9,000 feet elevation, or the highest 

 altitude yet recorded for Odonata in Mexico or Central America. 

 These additional data are included in the following pages. 



General Conditions Determining Odonate Distribution. 



The actual distribution of the Odonata is determined by the con- 

 ditions under which their aquatic larva) are able to exist. The dis- 

 tribution of the larvae, so far as the present region is concerned, is almost 

 entirely unknown. Our present information refers to the appearance 

 of the imagos in certain localities, and the summary herewith presented 



' Odonata. by P. P. Calvert forming pp. 17-^20 ;iri(l IiitnKluctinn, pp. v-xxx 

 of volume y,europlera of llie Jiiologia Ccntrah Americana, edited 1)V 1'. D. flod- 

 man. I»ndon, lOOl-llKW. *lto. 9 plates, 1 map. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 461 



rests on the unproven assumption that the adults do not wander 

 far from the waters in which they have passed their earher stages or 

 in which their offspring are capable of surviving. This assumption 

 is one of the weaknesses in the following attempted generalizations; 

 another is the real scantiness of our knowledge of the distribution of 

 even the winged individuals. How scanty this is may be seen by a 

 glance over the list of localities in Honduras, Nicaragua, etc., in Table 

 A and in the columns for these countries in Table B of the Introduction 

 to the Biologia volume quoted and a study of Tables 6-8 of the 

 present paper. 



It must be distinctly understood, therefore, that all which follows 

 is subject to future correction in these two important particulars. 

 In spite of these disadvantages, however, some generalization has 

 been deliberately attempted, in the belief that by so doing progress in 

 investigation will be hastened much more than if no such summary 

 were ventured. 



The Chief Odonatological Fe.^tures of Mexico and Central 



America. 



These are: the practical absence of the subfamily Cordulinae,^ some 

 species of which have been recorded from corresponding latitudes in 

 the Old World. 



Absence of the following genera, conspicuous or well developed 

 in other parts of America: (a) in Northern America,^ Ophiogomphus , 

 Gomphus, Dromofjomphus, Octogomphus, Celithcmis, Leucorhinia; (b) 

 in South America, Lais, Thore, Euihore, Microsligma, Telagrion, 

 Leptagrion, Diastatops, Potamotheniis ; (c) in the West Indies, 

 Scapanea. 



The small number of genera, seven out of seventy-one, which are 

 restricted to this area. They are Pscudostigma, Thaumatoneura, 

 Paraplilcbia, Ilcspcragrion, Anisagrion, Oplonccschna and Pseudoleon. 

 Three of these (Ilcspcragrion, Ophmvschna, Pseudoleon) embrace only 

 one speci(>s each. Oplomvschnu and Pseudoleon should be good fliers 

 and, therefore, one would not expect their limited distribution. 



The unit}' of the district, in that only one geiuis {Ilesperagrion) is 

 restricted to Mexico north of the Isthmus of Tehuantepec, none to the 



' .Mreadv pointed out by Carpenter, Sclent. Proc. Roy. Dublin Sue. (n. s.), 

 VI 11^ p. 1.5<) (1H'J7). 



' 'IlirouKlio'it thi.4 memoir, ns in the liioloijin volinne on Odonata, by "North- 

 ern .\n»eri<-ii" i.s meant all north of central (aliloniia, .Arizona, New Mexico, 

 TcxoH and (viml of this la.st) of the '.UH\i [)arallel of north latitude. 




462 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



area between the latter ami the Isthmus of Nicaragua and oulj' one 

 {Thaumatoneura) to the Costa Rican-Panaman section. 



The pralominant Calopterygine genus is Hetcerina with 17 species out 

 of 23 for the subfamily. Several species (//. americana, tricolor, 

 titia, macropus, capitalis) show a marked teudencj^ to reduction in size 

 of the pterostigma in some of the western portions of their ranges, 

 but the geographical areas in which this reduction is strongly marked 

 for one species {e.g., inacropus in Guatemala) are not necessarily 

 those in which it is displayed by another (e.g., americana). Amphip- 

 teryx is interesting as presenting some features intermediate between 

 those of this subfamily and the Agrioninae. Only one Old World 

 genus (Calopteryx) is represented and its existence here rests on a 

 single specimen. 



Lestince. Six of the 7 species belong to the cosmopolitan Lestes. 



Agrioninw. Of 24 genera, 3 only {Argia, Enallagma, Ischnnra) 

 have been recorded from the Old World. Five of the 7 endemic 

 Odonate genera belong here. Of the 112 species, 48 belong to Argia; 

 next follow Protoneura with 7 species and Telebasis Avith 6. Six 

 species (of 3 genera) are of the exclusively Neotropical Pseudostig- 

 matina, including some of the linearly largest known Odonata of the 

 world. 



Gomphina;. None of the genera are extra- American. Erpctogom- 

 phus is the predominant genus of the subfamily in the northern part 

 of our district, Epigomphus in the southern. 



Cordulegasterince. The single genus of our area, CordulcgasUr, 

 is Holarctic. 



jEshnifKB. Three {Anax, ^shna, Gynacanlha) of the six genera 

 are also found in the Old World, but none of the species extends thither. 

 One of the seven endemic genera belongs here {Oplonaschna). /Eshna 

 has the largest number of species. 



CordiUincc. The single record for this subfamily, from near the 

 northern limit of our district, is of tlie Holarctic and rahvotropicnl 

 Macromia. 



Libellidi7i(r. Of 28 genera, one (PscudolKni) is enih'niic, five {Libcl- 

 Ixda, Tholymia, Tramca, J'antala, tSympclrum) are regarded as also 

 occurring in the Old World. The only Odonate species common to 

 our area and to the Old World — Pantala fUir(sc<ns (and Sympdrum 

 corruptuml) — are of this sul>fainily. Predominant gcncia are Libil- 

 liUa, Micrathyria, Orthctnis, Erythrodiplax, lircchmorhogd, Tramca, 

 Perilhemis and Erythanis. 




1908.] natural sciences of philadklpiiia. 463 



Relations of the Mexican-Central American Odonate Fauna 



TO THOSE of other ArEAS. 



The study of the species ,of Otlonata found over large parts of Mexico 

 has shown that, to the northward, many of them occupy also con- 

 siderable portions of Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, and California 

 (in the last named possibly to San Francisco), although their north- 

 ern boundary line has not been determined in any of these States.* 

 Therefore, all species, subspecies or varieties found in Mexico and 

 Central America and which may extend also into these four States of 

 the United States, but not beyond them, nor into the West Indies 

 nor South America, have been coasidered as endemic. With this 

 explanation, which applies to all the tallies in this paper, the general 

 relations of the Odonate fauna may be learned from an inspection of 

 Table 1. 



A further analysis of the relations of the fauna is given in Table 2, 

 wherein, passing from north to south and, in Mexico, from plateau 

 to lowlands, the decrease in the northern element and the increase in 

 the southern element is clearly shown. Even on the Mexican plateau, 

 excluding its highest portion,^ as the most northern and most elevated 

 section of the present faunal district, the southern element, measured 

 by the number of the "exclusively South American" species, is almost 

 as strong as the northern, represented by the "exclusively Northern 

 American" species" — a striking fact when the narrow land connection 

 with South America is contrasted with the ver\' nuich wider union with 

 the Unite<l States, and the geological history of the plateau is borne 

 in mind. It is of further interest to note that while 15 exclusively 

 Northern American species are found on the plateau, 14 Northern 

 American species arc found in Mexico exclusive of the plateau, the 

 corresponding figures for the exclusively South American species 

 being 14 and oO. These difTerences are in agreement with (ladow'g 



*The existing data for about 40 Mexican species would seem to show tliat 

 their nortluTii houndiiry hue may cnrrebpnixi with tlie upper hinit of the Upper 

 Sononiii of Mirriam (.Map in Mull. 10, I/. .^. Dtpt. -\jfric., I)iv. Hiol. Surv., IStKS) 

 in Culiforiiiii, Arizona and New .Mexico; l>ut not east of the hi.st named, a.** in 

 TexiiH tlir.Hr spceirs are not yet known ns far north tis the upper limit of .Mer- 

 rium'H l.im-cr Sonoran. 



* The Di.strito IVdrral rmhrai'CH much of the highest portion of the Mexican 

 plateau, having an rlevation (»f 7L'(M> StKMJ ft. or 22(M)'J >.'>(( m., and hua. Int-n 

 fairly well examined an regards it.s Odonate faiuia, which numlx-rsJl sptcics, 

 etc. ()ut«ide of .Mexico and (V-ntral .\mericu, ot th«' "J I occur exciuwri^- in 

 Northi-ru .Auu'rica ami 2 of the 21 exclu.Mivdy in Siuth .Uuerira, no thut here 

 (he HouthiTU clement in wruk. 



•('outra.Mt on (hi.-* feature iialMi, lilnl. Cantr. Atiur. Culrop.^ I, pt. t, p. \i, 

 nn«l W. Horn, Drut. ent. ZciUtchr., is'.tT, pp. KM 2. 




464 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 









s 

 ^ 



. a 



- V 

 CJS 

 03 -tJ 



B 9) 



3 bO 



03 

 O vii 



^° 

 U5 03 



S o 



.£ 00 



3-C 



croj 



0) B 





"Sb-i 



^ g 



o S 



3 o 



" d 




1908.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



465 




466 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



results for Reptiles and Batrachia: "The plateau seems to be a much 

 more effective barrier to the southerners than is the descent into the 

 hot lowlands to the northern creatures."* 



The West Indies Ue within the same parallels of latitude as do Mexico 

 and Central America. The total number of species of Odonata found 

 in those i.'^lands is about 91 ;' 56 of these, or 61.5%, also occur in our 

 present district. The number of species common to both is likely 

 to be increased by future explorations, especially as the Odonate 

 fauna of Yucatan and British Honduras, the continental areas lying 

 nearest to the West Indies, is very imperfectly known. But, making 

 use of the present figures, it is rather surprising that only 61.5% of 

 the West Indian Odonata are found in Mexico and Central America, 

 seeing that the prevalent winds on the east coast of the mainland are 

 easterly (i.e., northeast, east and southeast).'" With such insects 

 as the Odonata one might expect the winds to play an important part 

 as means of dispersal." The West Indian species not yet found in 

 Mexico or Central America include a number of fair-sized and prob- 

 ably fair-flying species, e.g., Aphylla produclo, Progomphus integer 

 and serenus, Dythemis rufinervis, Scapanca frontalis, Macrothetnis 

 celceno, Celilheniis eponina, etc. 



The extent to which species common to the West Indies are found 

 in some parts of Me.xico and Central America is shown in Table 3. 



The Endemic Genera and Species are summarized in Table 4, p. 468. 



Of the genera listed in Table 4 as occurring in both Northern and 

 South America, Hetoerina, Argia, Progomphus, Erythrodiplax, and per- 

 haps Dythemis, are represented by a greater number of species in South 

 America than in Northern America, and these genera are entirely, 



• Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1905, II, p. 239. 



•Hagon, Proc. Bost. Soc. Xat. Hist., XI pp. 289-291 (1867); XNIII, pp. 

 20-9<3 (1H7.5). filler, I.e., XI, pp. 295-298 (1807). Kclbo, Arcliir f. Xnturges., 

 LIV, I. pp. 15.3-178 (1888). Kirbv, Ann. and Mag. Xal. Ilisl., (G) XIV, pp. 

 2«H-269 (1894). Carpenter. Journ. hvit. Jamaica, II, pp. 259-263 (1896). 

 Calvert, liiol. Cent. Amcr. Neurop. Inlrod., Table H (19(J8). 



"Sec the rhart.s of prevailiiiR wind.s accompanying Hiidian's Challenger 

 fiefxtrt on AtmoHplioric Circulation, and the data piven in Tal)le VII of the 

 ApfK-ndix theretfj, np. 109, 170, for Matanioras and Cordova, Mex., and lU'lize; 

 al.-^o the data for .Merida, Carnpeche an<l Jalapa l>y .Moreno v .\nda and Coniez 

 in ElClima de la lOpuhlira Mexicana, .\fifi I (for 1N95) an<l ll (for 1890), Mexico 

 City, .S'cretarfa <li' Foniento, 1.S99 and 1900. Cf. also Sapi)er, M iltrlatncri- 

 kaninche Ueixrn nnd Sludicn, Hraun.schweiK, 1".H)2, |). 297. Tlie ChallenKer data 

 for Hlewfield.s, Nicar., I.e., p. 171, represent tlie prevailinR wind aw northwest 

 which luu* little bearing on the question of the reiatioiiH of tiie continental anci 

 WoHt Indian Odrinata. 



" On the other hand Cliapman states that of the 5.50 species and subspecies 

 of birds recorde*! from the West Indies, 3fJ3, or 55*%, are endemic. Hull. Atner. 

 Mu». .\at. Hint., IV, p. 31. S, 1H92. 




190S.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



467 



Table 3. — The Relath-e Strength of the West Indian' and South American 



Elements in Different Part^ of the Odonate Fauna of 



Mexico and Central America. 



* Number of species, etc.. 



Total number i^*^""^'' °^ species, etc., found aiao (outside of 

 I of siiecies ' found also in the West 

 I g^Q ' Indies, and their per- 



centage equivalents. 



Area. 



Mexican plateau 81 ' 



Mexico i.a.sinTable5) 219 (221) 



Yucatan and British 



Honduras 3.5? 



Guatemala and Hon- 

 duras 161 (1S6) 



Costa Rica 101 (165), 



23 = 28.4% 



49 (50) = 22.4 (22.6) 



Mexico and Cent. Amer.) 

 exclusively in S. Amer., 

 and their percentage 

 equivalents. 



18? 



= 51.4 



14 

 50 



= 17.3% 

 = 22.8 (22.6) 



= 22.8 



41(50) =25.5(26.9) 

 19 (45) = 18.8 (27 3)1 



49 (61) = 30.4 (32.8) 

 37 (65) = 36.6 (39.4) 



(The parentheses have the same meaning as in Table 2, q. v.) 



or almost entirely (Argia), confined to the Americas. Lestes, Enal- 

 lagma, Ischnura, jEshna, Libellula and Sympetrum are almost or quite 

 cosmopolitan, but are more abundant in the northern than in the 

 southern hemisphere. 



Of the seven endemic genera, Pscudostigma, Tliaumatoneura and 

 Paraphlebia are South American in their affinities; the other four 

 are not so clear. 



Adding together the 9 species of these three genera, the 56 endemic 

 species of genera also occurring in South" America but not in Northern 

 America (Table 4), and the 70 non-endemic species found elsewhere 

 exclusively in South America (Table 1), we have a total of 135 species, 

 or 46% of the fauna, as being of distinctly southern rclationsliips. 

 Similarly, adding the 12 endemic species of genera also occurring in 

 Northern America, but not in South America (Table 4), to the 21 

 non-endemic species found elsewhere exclusively in Northern America 

 (Table 1) we have a total of 33 species, or 11% of the fauna, as being 

 of distinctly northern affiliations. 



In the endemic as well as in the non-endemic species, therefore, 

 the South American element" is much the strongest in Mexico and 

 Central America as a whole. 



"While the expression "South American element" has been used in these 

 piiRcs to dosiKTiate those 8pecir.s found at the present time in S<juth America 

 ul.-jo, tliere h<-ciils to be no eviilcnce to di-ridr wln-tlicr .swell (Jdonata, or tlieir 

 anccHtors, entered Mexico an<i Central .\meriea from the Houth, or whether 

 S<iuth Anw'rica received tliein from the former countries. I'robably only further 

 discoveries of fossil Odonala will settle this question. 




468 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 469 



Arranging the subfamilies in the order of their percentages of endemic 

 species, the series obtained is Cordulegasterinse {two species only) 

 lOO^c, GomphinsB 85. 7*^, Agrionina? 72. 2*^^, Calopterj-gina; 47.8^o 

 Lestinte 42.8%. Libellulinai 16%, ^Eshninae 13%. The Cordulegas- 

 terina^. many Gomphina^, most Libellulina* and /IlshninaB have well- 

 developetl jKnvcrs of flight. Perhaps the great majority of the other 

 three subfamilies are feebly-flying insects, yet some of their species ap- 

 pearing in the present faunal district are ver\' widely distributed, e.g., 

 Enallagma civile, Ischtiura ramburi, Anomalagrion hastatum. It is 

 consequently impossible to account for the relative endemicity of the 

 subfamihes by such general coasidcratioas. 



If the relative endemicity of these groups is not always inversely 

 proportional to the powers of flight, as these figures seem to indicate, 

 and if nearly 40% of the West Indian Odonata are not to be found 

 in .Mexico and Central America in spite of favoring winds, the expla- 

 nation of the present distribution of this group of insects may perhaps 

 be found in the past distribution of land and water" in these regions. 



Dl.STRIBUTIOX OF THK Odo.N'ATA WITHIX LIMITED PORTIONS OF 



Me.xico and Central America. 



Table 2 and the remarks on the fauna of the Mexican plateau 

 (page 463) have already illustratcnl this topic to some degree. Tal)le 

 5 gives the number of endemic species and of those common to the 

 three countries whose Odonate fauna is best known. 



Accepting the areas of .Mexico (exclusive of Camj)eche. Yucatan and 

 Baja California), of Guatemala and of Costa Hica as approximately 

 65').(KK),'* ()3.(KK),'* and 21, (KX) square miles (1,70().(KK), 164.(MK) and 

 54,(KK) square kilometres) respectively, it follows that, in proportion 

 to its area, Costa Rica is much the richest country of the three, both 

 in its total mmil)er of species and its inmiber of endemic species. 



Tal)les O-S give the number of species and the niunber of localities 

 at which they were collected in each of the States or Departments of 



•* Compare the gpolof^iral data cihIkxIjchI in the sketch maps of Gadow (Proc. 

 Ztxtl. Snr. lAtudon, UK).*), II, pp. 'I'.Vy-iS) \ also tlic discu.'JHonM in thi" pajx-rs of 

 ( liupman {liuH. .\mrr. Muh. Sat. Hist., IV, pp. A\H, .'i-M')-*.*, 1S»2) on hirtl.s. 

 .Sni|)soii (I'ror. U. S. A'rt/. Mum., XVII, pp. 12K. 4:tS. 447, IS94) on lanti mi<l 

 fn'«h-watrr nioUiMkM, and Ortnian {Pr<u\ .\mer. Philoi*. Soc, XLI, pp. .101), 341, 

 '.V\7) on fn'}<h-wat«T d<'<'ajxxiH, of the Wc'Mt Indi<*8 



'* Koincro, (icmjraphintl and Statinticat .\oteti on .Mexico, j). 91, New York, 

 1.S9S. 



** Crntury f}irtinnitnf,\(>\. IX, NfW York, I'JOC). Dr. SapjMT kIvi'm tin* iippi 

 ir>at«; an'a of (lUatcmahi ils ohIn- 1 10 (MM) .H(|uiirr kilom<lr<'K, Mitdlnmrrikmn ' 

 lieiscn u. Studicn, p. 424 




470 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 





O 

 J5 



-< 



S! 



is 



B E- 



5 o 

 « O 



o« ^.^ 



S ^ 



•«: ^^ 



O a 



r ^ 



C ^ 



^ 2 



X ^ 



c 5 



si 




190S.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



471 



s: r s 



43 H « 



.? 



a 



-•1 



g* 



& 



CO 

 00 



o 



•a 



s 

 s 



c3 




172 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 



Mexico, Guatemala and Costa Rica, respectively. In each tal)le the 

 States or Departments are arranp;ecl in vertical columns corresponding 

 to their position on the Atlantic or Pacific slopes, and in the case of 

 Mexico also on the Central Plateau. In each vertical column the 

 names stand in order from north to south, and the States or Depart- 

 ments whose names are on the same horizontal line, in reading across 

 these tables, are, in part at least, in the same latitude. These three 

 tables exb.iliit the scantiness of our knowledge, however, rather than 

 actual differences in the faunas." 



Table 7. — Number of Species, etc., of Odonata Recorded from 

 Departments of Guatemala, and of the Localities at 

 which they were collected. 

 (See explanation in the text.) 



Pacific (Western) Slope. 



Department. 



San Marcos 



Quezaltenango. 



Retalliuli'u 



Suc'liitcpfciuez 



Solola 



Sacatcpoquez 



Ainatitian 



Escuintla 



Santa Rosa 



Totals (after deducting 



1 

 14 

 22 

 16 



2 



9 

 15 

 47 



2 



Atlantic (Eastern) Slope. 



Department. 



liOcali- 

 ties. 



Spe- 

 cies, 

 etc. 



Alta Vera Paz i 14 I 46 



Izabal 9 j 64 



Baja Vera Paz 6 51 



Zacapa 2 40 



Guatemala 3 16 



Jalapa 1 13 



duplications) 20 



Totals (alter deducting 

 duplications) 



35 139 



Common to .\tlantic and Pacific slope.*? 56 species, etc. Subtracting 56 from 

 68 + 139 gives 151 species frmn difinitc localities in Guatemala, f)r 10 less than 

 the total (161) credited to tliat country in Tal)les 2 and .'). I*'or these ten species 

 definite joealities are not known and hence they could not he included in Tal)li> 7. 

 .\ similar dilTerence exists between Tables N, 5 and 2. 



'• The State of Vera Cruz, lying exclusively on the Atlantic slope, extending 

 through 5i degrees (17°-22°+') of latitude atid IS.OOO ft. (.') 187 ni.) of altitude, 

 an<l having an area of 29,210 s(|U!ire miles (7.'), 6.") I scpiare kilonu'trcs). has 118 

 species of Ofioruita. The State of New Jersev, l'. S. A., also bordering tlie 

 Atlantic, reaeliing from .'{9° to 41° l.'i' N. and to ISOO It. (.'i.'iO m.) in elevation, 

 and witii an area of 7,S|.'") sriu.-ire miles (20,211 s<|U;ire kilometres) possesses 111 

 Hpecies of Odotuita. Moth areas have been «'.\amined by a n\uniier of collectors 

 of thew insects, and the results do nf>t seem to favor the general i)elief in the 

 richncHH of tropical countries in Odonata. .\t lejisl 9 species are common to the 

 two area«: Ilrla-rina nmi-rianm, Ar(/ia {rdn.sliiln, Isrhuurn ramhuri, Anowala- 

 griiin htiHtnlum^ Auax jiniiiin, A. liinijipcx, Lihrlliila iiurlftrtirns (|)rob.'ibly), Pon- 

 Inla fliirrHcruM, Si/ni iHlriiiii mrrujiltiiu. ,\s far as I lun aware no data ha\e been 

 ptiliiished showing a riclier Odon.ate fautui in a limited perio<l of time than that 

 of the viritiilv of Kent, nlijo, where Messrs. ()slnirn .•unl Iline took ru species 

 Ix'tween .bm." 17 and 21 (Ithio SInIr ( 'tiivrrsiti/ Xn/unilisl , I, p|). i;{ I.'., 111(10). 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 473 



Table 8. — Xumbeu of Species, etc., of Odonata Recorded from the 

 Departments of Costa Rica, and of the Localities 



AT which they were COLLECTED. 



(See the explanation in the text.) 



Localities. ^ 



Department. ' »Sp)ecies, etc. 



Pacific slope Atlantic slope, 



Guanacaste. 



Alajuela 



San Jos<^ 



Cartapo 



Punt arenas.. 



Total.*! (after deducting duplication.';) 



Total number of species, etc., Pacific slope 67 



Total number of species, etc., .\tlantic slope 59 



Total number of species, etc., common to Pacific and Atlantic slopes 28 



Although writers on other groups in the Bioloijia have distinguished 

 between a "North" and a "South Mexico," the division hne being near 

 the Tropic of Cancer, the data at hand for the Odonata do not seem 

 to indicate any such distinction. 



Rkl.\ti()Ns of the Odoxate Fauna to Tempkk.vtuue.'^ 



In Plate XXVI wc have given a map of the distribution of mean an- 

 nual temperatures in Mexico and Central America.'* The topography, 

 presentinu; a higli paramesial axis running northwest and southeast 

 through the greater part of the district, has brovight about the exist- 

 ence of parallel zones of temperature, decreasing in mean annual 

 intensity from each coast line to the axis. As a result the temperatures 

 are not distributed latitudinally, but a liidi cool tract extends far 



" It i.s not inteiiiicd tluit tlie remarks lirrc ma<l<' on tlic relations of Odonate 

 distribution to temperature, rainfall and otiier environmental factors are to be 

 interpreted as showing th«' limits which these factors set to the distril>uti(in ui 

 the insects in f|uestion. Our kn<>\v|e<lge of the areius occupied by the latter ia 

 still tof) imperfect to permit tiiis. We nmy be said to know where many specieri 

 occur, l)Ul not where tliey do not occur. 



".Mr. C. H. T. Towiiserid, in his paners "On the Hiogeograpliy of Mexico, 

 TexjLx." etc. (Trntut. Trxns Arml. Sri., Vols. I and II, IMI.'i and 1.S97). has 

 laid great empha'<is on the differenci- betwe«-n apparetit and sensible tem|>era- 

 tures, .'IS oiitjiined from dry and wet bull> therm mieters respe<'ii\<|y, hulding 

 th.'it onl\' seii>.ib|e temperatures can be iLse<l i'l biogeographical work (I.e., I, 

 pp. .S9-90; II. pp. ^\^}-^i7). As very few wet Imlb re.'idings exist for our dis- 

 trict, our data are those of his "apparent" tem|MTalures only. I am indebted 

 to Dr. ('. C. Adams for calling mv attention to thcHU two papers, which seem 

 to have been omitted from the "^)oh>gic:d Record." 




474 PROCEEDIXGS OF THK ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



to tlie south of ^lexico, thence continueil as a chain of "islands" in 

 tlie midst of lower and hotter lands. Considering the zones of mean 

 annual temperature in order, from the hottest to the coldest : 



Zone I (more than 30° C. = 86° F.) is doubtful, as stated in the 

 explanation of the map; no species of Odonata are known to be 

 restricted to the area supposed to constitute it. 



Zone II (30°-25° C, 86°-77° F.) is continuous on the Atlantic, and 

 also on the Pacific slope, for the entire length of its extent, from about 

 20° north latitude on the eastern, or 25° north on the western, coast 

 of Mexico to South America. The Atlantic and Pacific belts of this 

 zone are connectetl at the Nicaraguan lakes and at the Isthmus of 

 Panama. This zone therefore offers a pathway for the extension, 

 northward or southward, of species which find in it temperature con- 

 ditions similar to those which prevail over large areas of South Amer- 

 ica.'® It actually possesses a larger number (91) of species also found 

 in South America than an}'^ other zone, although Zone III has 90 

 such species. Zones II and III have respectively 48 and 47 species 

 also found in the West Indies, larger numbers than for the other zones. 

 Peculiarities of Zone II are Perilestes (Costa Rica), Argiollagma (Guate- 

 mala), Teleba^is 4 species, Metaleptobasis, Neoneura, Protoncura 5 

 species, NephepeUia and Rhodopygia, all genera foimd in South America 

 and the West Indies. Yucatan, Campcche and most of British 

 Honduras lie within this zone, and these three have no endemic species. 



Zone III (25°-20° C, 77°-68° F.), the Mexican Tierra Caliente of 

 IIann,-° extends continuously southward from the Gulf States on the 

 east, and from Arizona and California on the west, to southern Nica- 

 ragua, where it is interrupted by Zone II. The Atlantic and Pacific 

 belts are C(jnfluent from the southern jiart of the State of Puebla to 

 the western part of Cliiapas, and again for the southern part of Hon- 

 <luras and most of Nicaragua. After its interruption in southern 

 Nicaragua, this zone reappears in northwestern Costa Rica and extends 

 almost to the Isthmus of Panama. Zones III and IV possess an equal 

 number (27) of species also found in Northern America, a larger num- 

 ber than for the other zones. Characteristic for this zone arc Philo- 

 (j(nia (not north of Costa Rica), J'ahcmucma, Proyoniphus ,3 species, 

 Epigomphus 4 species, genera chiefly South American in their di.s- 

 tribution. 



'• TJic (listributifm of tlio Odonata by toniprraturo zono.8 in Soiitli .\niorica 

 nliotilri also F)f» ron.si<lprcfl lien-, luif own tlio first stops in invostiRntinp the .S^ith 

 A'tr-rionn f)<lonnta from this point of view ha\«> vrt to l)f' takr-n. 



*" Ilanflburh ilrr Klimalologic, 2i>- Anfirabo, Bd.II, p. L'Sf), Stuttgart Is'iT 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 475 



Zone IV (20°-lo° C, 68°-59° F.), the Mexican Tierra Templada of 

 Hann, embracing a large part of the United States, nowhere touches 

 the coasts in Mexico or Central America, as Zones II and III do, but 

 occupies a central position. It coasists in these countries of a Mexican 

 portion, of rather greater area than that of the central plateau, and 

 reaching to southern Puebla; a mostly elongated and narrow strip in 

 Guerrero and Oaxaca,some of the western parts of Chiapas. Guatemala 

 and Honduras, with an arm into western Salvador; a number of small 

 scattered areas in Honduras and a larger one in northern Nicaragua; 

 finally, an elongated strip in Costa Rica and Panama. Representatives 

 of Zone I \' are Cordukgastcr godinani, .^shna dugesi, Plathenns subornota, 

 Libellula comanchc, foliata, nodisticta and luctuosa, members of chiefly 

 northern, or {Mshnti) cosmopolitan, genera. 



Zone V (15°-10° C, 59°-50° F.), the Mexican Tierra Fria of Hann, 

 occurs in scattered areas in Sonora, Chihuahua, Durango, Zacatecas, 

 and one of greater extent in the States of Hidalgo, Puebla, Tla.scala 

 and .Mexico; in western Guatemala and on some of the peaks of Costa 

 Rica. No Odonata are peculiar to this zone. 



Zone VI (less than 10° C. = 50° F.) occure only on the higher peaks 

 of .Mexico, Guatemala and Costa Rica; no Odonata have been reported 

 as yet at or above the elevatioas corresponding to its lower limit in 

 these countries. 



Zitncs 111, 1\', V and \'I may be compare<l to continents or islands, 

 lying within a sea of Zone II, and each enclosed by a girdle of zones 

 of lower numbers than itself. 



Table 1) gives the distribution of the Odonata within these zones. 



From Table 9 it results that the number of species confined to one 

 zone only is 101, extending through two zones 99, extending through 

 three zones 71, and through four zones 8. Of all the zones. III con- 

 tains the greatest munber of species, subspecies and varieties, viz.: 

 222 !is compare<l with 105 in II, 143 in IV, and 10 in V; it is also the 

 richest in zonal endemic species, viz.: 40, as comj)are<l witii 40 in II 

 ami is in 1\ ; and the richest in endemic Mexican and Central Ameri- 

 can forms, viz.: 100, as c<>m|>ar(^l with 00 in 1\', 50 in II. -J in \'. and 

 :iin I. 



Tlie species, etc., wjiich. outside of Mexico and Central America, 

 are found exclusively in Nr)rthern America appear in the tempera- 

 ture zones of our district in the following numbei-s: 1\' 15, HI 13, 

 II 5, V4. As our map (Plate XXVI) shows, zones IV and III are con- 

 tinuous from the I'nitc*! States into .Mexico, so that they offer a 

 pathway for the extension of species wlm-i' HviiH/ condiii.nis are 




476 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 



z 



o 

 ^3 



3 S 



i « 



a ^ 



a. "^ 



H 2 



> 8 



a -s 



t> S" 



»4 CO 



H S 



z 3 



II 



fa V 



o S 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 477 



those of these zones. The Northern American species found in zones 

 II and V are, in all cases, also found in III or IV, and hence can con- 

 ceivably have descended or ascended from one or the other of tiie 

 latter two. 



Coasidering all the Mexican and Central American species, etc., 

 occurring also (a) in South America, or (6) exclusively in South America 

 and the West Indies, or (c) exclusively in South America, the order 

 (according to the number of species) of the temperature zones in which 

 they appear is always the same, viz.: II, III, I\', I, \\ the numbers 

 of species being respectively: (a) 91, 90, 60, 4, 1; (6) 29, 29, 18, 0, 0; 

 (c) 52, 51, 33, 4, 0. Zone II as a pathway for the extension of the 

 "South American element" has already been considered on page 474. 



Some Anomalies in the Zonal Distribution. — Since Zone II is the only 

 zone continuously extending northward from South America, it is of 

 importance to notice, as Table 9 shows, that of the 70 Mexican and 

 Central American forms occurring elsewhere exclusively in South 

 America, 10, or 23%, have not been detected in zone II in our fauual 

 region. 



Of the 131 species, etc., common to .Mexico, Guatemala and Costa 

 Rica, the great majority have been found in zone II at some point 

 (and hence presumably occur in it at other points), although they 

 may also inhabit other zones, but there are 28 exceptions. 



Sixteen of the species, etc., of zones 111 antl IV of Casta Rica are 

 not found farther north, but 17 other species of the same zones and 

 country' do so extend, although the Costa Rican areas of these zones 

 are discontinuous. 



In spite of the isolation of zone I\' in Guatemala, no species of 

 Odonata are known to be re.stricte<l thereto, and species found there 

 and n(jt known to occur in any other zone than 1\*, such as Cordule- 

 gaster godmani and Libcllula foliata, are also found in Mexico and in 

 Costa Rica. 



Sixty-two and 27 species, etc., of zones higher than U found in Mexico 

 and Guatemala are not and are, respectively, found farther south, a 

 discontinuity of zones Ill-V existing south of Guatemala. 



Nine and 4 species, etc., of zones I\"-\' (but not lower) found in 

 Mexico are not and are, respectively, found farther south. 



Some conceivaljle explanations of these anomalies (suggested for 

 future investigation) are: incompleteness of data on the i)resent dis- 

 tribution; that temperature docs not limit the inliabitable area of 

 the species concerni^l, or that, limiting it, the species found in dis- 

 continuous parts of the same zone may at times, past or present, 

 M 




478 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



have made their way from one separated area to another by their 

 own powers of flight, perhaps aided by favorable winds; that zones 

 III and IV may have been more continuous throughout the length of 

 Mexico and Central America in Tertiary times, when higher elevations 

 with consequent cooler temperatures prevailed over areas now low 

 and hot, as a result of previous greater volcanic activity or orogenic 

 revolution,^' some of which latter causes have been invoked by bot- 

 anists^^ to account for the distribution of the plants of this district. 



That temperature is not the only factor in determining the dis- 

 tribution of the Odonata is shown by the fact that each of the zones 

 II-IV, even when continuous over large areas, contains species of 

 quite limited habitat within that zone. Such are Perilestes jragilis, 

 Argia imlsoni, gaumeri, popoluca, and cu'praurea, ArgiaUagma minu- 

 tum and species of Protoneura in zone II; Hetcerina rudis, Argia per- 

 cellvlata, calida, harretti, rhoadsi and pocomana and Palcemnema desid- 

 erata in zone III; Hetasrina tolteca and Argia herberti in zone IV. 



Relations of the Odonate Fauna to Rainfall. 



The existence of pools, lakes, or watercourses of sufficient con- 

 stancy for the development of the aquatic larva? of the Odonata is 

 dependent on the water supply (ultimately traceable to the precipi- 

 tation) and on the factors which tend to prevent its loss by evapora- 

 tion or by sinking into the soil. These latter factors probably include 

 frequency of winds and of clouds, sheltering vegetation and the rela- 

 tive porosity of the soil and underlying rocks. The supply and con- 

 servation of the water of a given area have not only the direct effects 

 of furnisjiing the necessary living medium for the Odonate larvie, but 

 also, in a more indirect manner, must influence the supply of food for 

 both larva) and adults through the existence of vegetation and through 

 it of herbivorous insects and other animals. 



The influence of these environmental conditions on the Odonate 

 fauna has not yet been thoroughly investigated even in those parts of 

 tlie earth for which the physical data have been accunuilated. For 

 Mexico and Central America, where the collection of these data has 

 been very limite<^l (except at a few well-known localities), it is hardly 

 prwwiblc at this time to attempt to correlate the facts of Odonate 

 distribution even with those of precipitation. The existing measure- 



" Hill, Bull. Afu«. Comp. Zool, XXXIV, pp. 20r)-207, etc., Ism). 

 " MoHt rcrcntly !)>' Uray, Srirucc for Nov. <), 1!)()(), pp. 7(»'.» 71(1, ami lioian. 

 Gazette, XXVI, pp. i21-l.'>'J, IMOK, with citiitioii.s from i)rf'vions writers. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 479 



ments of rainfall show a much greater annual variation^ than in the 

 ease of temperature, and a much longer series of observations is, 

 therefore, needed to determine the approximate average rainfall than 

 to ascertain the approximate mean annual temperature. Since such 

 series exist for very few places^* and the rainfall differe so much at 

 nearby localities (as the data gathered by the authors quoted 

 show), the endeavor to correlate the occurrence o/ certain species of 

 Odonata with rainfall differences appeal's to be premature,^ although 

 it may be that precipitation has a more important influence on the dis- 

 tribution of these insects than has temperature.-^ The annual varia- 

 tion in rainfall, however, may bring about an annual variation in the 

 local Odonate fauna — a possibility which suggests that a proper under- 

 standing of the insect fauna may be obtainable only from the same 

 methods of accumulation of data as are practised by the meteorologists. 

 Mr. E. B. Williamson, as a result of his observations made while 

 collecting in Guatemala, has suggested in correspondence that "The 

 species [of Odonata] occurring at any location during the dry season 

 are those species of widest distribution, or, in other words, local species 

 are to be found in the height of the season." In testing this sugges- 

 tion, the difficulty at once arises that we have no complete records of 

 the Odonata occurring both in the wet and dry seasons at the same 

 locality. An absolute essential for the study]of this and other problems 

 connected with the seasonal distrilnition of these insects in our district 

 is a series of continuous observations for at Ica-st twelve consecutive 

 months in the same limited area. Under the present conditions the 

 best that can be done is to comjiare wet season captures at one point 

 with dry season collections at the nearest similar station. Thus 

 both Santa Lucia and Zapote lie on the Pacific slope of (juatemala, 



" Escobar, Memor. Soc. Cien. "Antonio Alzate," XX, 1903 (see hia figures for 

 Mazatlan, e.f/., I.e., p. 20). Ilarrinj^ton, Hull. Philos. Soc. Waxhinglon, XIII, pp. 6, 

 19, is'.)."). Sapper, Metcorol. Zcit.srlir., ISUJ- 1<.HI(». .\ .still nioro rerciit rt'vifw 

 of tilt' <listril)iilii>n of rainfall in Ccntnil Aiufrica is ront.iincd in Dr. .Mfred 

 Merz's "Ki'itra^c zur Kiiniatolonif und ll\ ilro^rrajiliii' .MiltrlanH-rikas" {Mitllnil. 

 Vereirut fur Erdkundv zii Leipziij, I'JOti; ".Xi pp., l lifilagcii ; l'.KJ7, cspeciallv 

 pp. 9-23). An I'.xtcntlf'd (li,s<.u.>*.si()n of Dr. Mitz's work is given in Meteorol, 

 Zcitschr., XXV, pp. 320 el stq., July, HKJS. 



"These loealities are nuwtly at the higher elevations, in the larger centres of 

 human po|)ulation, while the majority of the species of Odonata are found at 

 lower leveLs. 



"Sec a note hy Mr. Champion {Hinl. Cent.-Amer. \eur., p. 53) and one by 

 Mr. C. H. T. Town.send {Ann. Mnij. Xat. Hist., 0, XX, p. 289. 1S97) on the 

 seasonal appearance of certain Odonata and Diptera, respectively, in our dis- 

 trict. 



" Mr. F. M. Chapinan hiw .some interesting remarks on the influence of tem- 

 perature, ind(>pendent of hinnidity, on the distribution of birds at Las N'igas and 

 Jalapa, Vera Cruz, Mexico {Bull. Amer. Mu.i. Sat. Hist., X, p{). 17 and 30). 




4S() PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



have a mean annual temperature of 25°-2()° C. antl a yearly rainfall 

 of more than 3000 mm.,-^ the former, however, at an altitude of 335 

 metres as against 720 for Zapote. They have yieldetl respectively 

 26 dry season species and 17 wet season species; each has 6 endemic 

 species {i.e., restricted to Mexico and Central America), one of which, 

 with 7 non-endemic species, is found at both localities. 



The single locality in all Mexico and Central America which has 

 furnished the greatest number of species of Odonata is Atoyac, in 

 \'era Cruz — 68. At least 59 of these were taken in April and May (the 

 specimens of the other 9 are undated), and of these 59, 17 are endemic 

 in Mexico and Central America. If we may judge from the rainfall 

 figures published for the nearest point, Cordoba,^^ April and May, while 

 not a part of the wet season in its stricter sense, may have a precipi- 

 tation of 29-101 mm. and 77-233 mm. respectively, the total for the 

 year ijeing 2600-3200 mm. On in^•estigating the seasonal records 

 for the 17 endemic species at other localities, it appears that they are 

 by no means always confined to one limited portion of the year. 



Gualan, Guatemala, lies in the rainfall zone of less than 1000 m.-" 

 The only rainfall records from anywhere in the vicinity appear to be 

 tho<<e of Teculutan, Department of Zacapa, the monthlv figures for 

 HK)2, from January to December respectively, being 1, 0, 1, 95, 70, 361, 

 ?, 38. 83, 164, 17 and 2 mm.^" Mr. Williamson collected 39 species at 

 Gualan in January, 1905, 7 of which are restricted to Mexico and 

 Central America. At Los Amates, lying in the rainfall zone of 1000- 

 2000 mm., in the same month and the following February, 35 species 

 were obtained, 6 being endemic in our district. At Puerto Barries, 

 who.se measurefl precijjitation for three yeai-s, 1894-6, is 3096 nun., 

 with no month below 50 mm.,'' 33 species were procured in December, 

 1904, and Fel)ruaiy and Mardi, 1905, 7 of the.'^e being confined to 

 .Mexico and Central America. (Jualan ha.s a well-marked dry season, 

 which Is much less distinct at Los Amates and absolutely, but not 

 relatively, absent at Puerto Harrios. Of tiie endemic species, three 

 taken at Gualan {Argia Uzpi, A. pipila, rsciulolvon siipcrbus), three 

 at Los Amates (Neoneura nvielia, Protnneura remissa, Orthemis biollcifi), 

 and four at Puerto Barrios (Ifrlaritui miniala, Anjid (jdumcri, Xco- 

 nrnni jxnjfi, J^rotnm urn (iinnforia) were not taken at cil'iK r of the other 



" Su|)pf!r, Pptrrni.iiiii > Miiii„il., XMII, map, 1897. 



" Kc.r ISC.I :{, .Ni.t(., Haiti. ,Si>c. deitg. llMadiM. Mcx. ( 1 ), .\ . pp. »s \ rt scq., 1864. 

 " SapfM-r, l.r., 1HU7. 



'•I^»tt<TriicwiT, Mrliarnl. Zrilxrhr., XXIII. pp. 2.'{7, etc.. HKIC. 

 *' .SnptMT, I'ftiTiiinrui K Mitthril., XLIII, pp. 117 W srij., l.s<)7; Mvlcorol. Zcil- 

 Hchr., XIV, p. 2.^^. I.S»7. 




1908.] NATURAL sciexcp:s of philadklphia. 481 



two localities. Of the remaining endemic species taken at Gualan, 

 two {Argia frequetUuIa, Telebasis (ligiticollis) were taken also at both 

 the other places, one {Telebasis salva) also at Los Amates, one {Argia 

 indicalrix) also at Puerto Barrios. 



Some other data are presented in Table 10 (see pp. 482, 483). 



To illiLstrate the seasonal distribution more fully, the following 

 lists of the species taken at three different localities are appendeil : 

 the number before each specific name is the same as that employetl 

 in the list of species. Table B, of the Introduction, Biol. Cent.-Amer. 

 Neurop.; names j^rinted in heavy face typo in this and other lists are 

 those of species endemic in Mexico and Central America. 



DisTRiTo Federal, Mexico. No. 3. Hetccrinn vulnerata, 25. Lestes alacer, 53. 

 Hyponeura juncki, 101. Argia agrioides nahuana, lOS. Ennllagnui civile. 109. 

 E. puevnrum, 123. I srlntitni ramhuri and ILM. var. creduln. 12."). I. denticollis, 

 126. /. demorsa, 160. Erpetogomphus crotalinus. 171. Cordulegastcr diadcma, 

 175. A nax Junius , \7{). /Exfinn multicolor, 204. LihcUuln iiodidicto, 221 . Orthemin 

 ferruginea, 267. Trnmea copfn/sa, 2.S0. Sympetrum illotum virgulum, 2Sl. »S. 

 corruptum, 2S(i. Erylhemi/i simplicicollis collocnta, 293. Pachi/diplax longipennis. 



.\pril, 179; Mav, 25, 109, 125, 175. 179, 221, 2S0. 2S1, 286, 293; June, 53, 

 lOS, 109, 123. 124, 125. 126, KM). 179. 2S0, 2,S1, 2.S(), 293; Julv, 25, 101, 109, 123, 

 124, 125. 204. 267. 2S0, 2.S1, 2S6. 293; .\ucu.st, 2S1, 2.S6, 293; SfptenilxT, 3, 25, 

 101, lOS. 109, 125, 126, 179, 2N0. 2S1, 293; October, 3, 2.5, 109, 124, 125, 171, 

 2.S0; .\ovomlMT, 2.sO; I)cccinl)er, 281. 



Cueuxavaca, Mokei.os, Mexico. 3. Hetwritui vulncrnln, 4. //. atncricann. 

 24. Archilcstfs grandis, 25. Lestes alacer, 43. F'araphlcbia hvalina. 52. H>poncura 

 iugens, 53. //. funcki, 7S. Argia aiua, SI. \. lacrymans, S5. A. tonto, Stl. .1. 

 /j.v.sY/, ,*<;s. A. tarascana, 92. A. rxtruinn, 93. .1. ricidu, 94. A. vivida plana, 103. 

 Hcsperagrion hctcrodoxum, 107. Anisagrion lais, 119. Tclebasi.s salva. 125. 

 Ischnura deiiticolli.s. 127. Aiioinnlogriou lidstotiitn, l.'»7. nrpctogcimphus claps, 

 159. I;, cophias, 16(». H. crotalinus, 162. E. sipedon, 171. Cordulegastcr diadcma, 

 17.S. /ExIiiKi roniiiii III, 179. ./i. mnl/irolor, \S\. Al. williamsoniana, ls'S..E. 

 lulcipcunis, 191. Opiona-'schna armata, 202. LihcUuln stiturnla, 203. L. s. crocei- 

 pennis. 206. I^seudolcon supcrbus, 221. (hthcmis frrrugitun, 239. Enjlhrodiplnx 

 conntiUi var. // nini 241. var. d' ; 251. Brechmorhoga tcpcaca, 253. B. pertinax, 

 261. Pallothctnia liiicnliprs, 272. Trunun oniifln, 275. Prrilhcmis domitia intinsa, 

 2S0. Sympetrum illotum virgulum, 2KI. .S. corruplum. 



January: .\os. 4. 21, 92. 93; .M.iv: 3, 4, 52, 7S, S6 92 9», 107, 1 19, 202; Jiuiv: 

 3, 24, S4.92. 94. 103, 107, 159. liM). 17.S, 1S.3. 202, 206, 221. 239. 261; July: 3, 

 24, 53, 92, 93, 127, 157. 159. I(.2. IM. 202. 203. 221. 253; AuKU.st : 4, 24, Sfi, S8, 

 l.'i7; Sptcinlx'r: 3. 21, 103, 107, 119. 127, KMt, 179. 275, 2.S1 ; October: 3,4, 

 24, 25. SI, S6, SS, 92, 93, 103, 107, 1 19, 127, 160, 171, 194, 202, 221, 239, 241, 251, 

 272, 2S0; .NovciuImt: 171. 



S.w JosK, Co.sTA KicA. No. 2. llctaerina crueulafn, 21. Arcliiltsfcs gnnulif 

 67. Argia oculata, S6. .1. fixxn, 92. .1. cxtrnnen, 104. Anisagrion alloptcrum and 

 105. var.? rubicundum, 113. Acnntfutgrion grncile, 157. Erpetogomphus claps, 

 183. .Unhtui hitcijH finis, 203. Lihellula saturnta crocri /tenuis. 221. Ortlnrnis 

 ferruginrn, 237. krijlhrndiplax connnta \ar. r, 248. Brechmorhoga vivax, 254. 

 B. rapax 2<»l. I'allnlfumix linenti])ei*, 273. Pantala flavcsccus^ 2sO. S>mpctrum 

 illotum virgulum. 



Mardi: 203. 221. 248, 254, 273; Mav: 2, 07, H6, 92, 104, 105, 113, 157, 280; 

 July: 24, 104; August: 24, 92, IS3, 203, 221, 2.37, 261; Sptember: 2; October: 

 2, 248. 



From Tal)lo 10 and these three lists it i.s evident that the obfer- 

 vations for different months in the satne locality are (piite uneijual 




482 



PROCEEDINGS OF TUP: ACADKMY OF 



[Oct., 



z o 



- a « 



r. 'C ^ 



K r- < 



i^ 5 i 



hi a o 



i~ C X 



< '^ ~ 



s "^ - 



R ^ ^ 



c < 

 a; ~ 



I i 



I — T c- r- L- — 

 •.1061-5681 c — ■ —■ x ~ -■ -■ -■ 



-r y: X t^ L.-^ 



7^ X. X.t-'^ 



■^ 3 re 03 r^ 



— CM — I 



•i06I 

 aJuiBJdduia) uca]^ 



•janiv 'JUS J paw 

 'xa|(oipaioij)sai 

 '-3)a 'sdioad's 8ui 

 -paaaid jo jaqoinj^ 



'3)a 'gaioads 

 JO jaqoinu' [bjoj, 



a 



ioei 



'f-i-€i8I 'sjtoX z 



•Z061 

 ajn^BJadma) UBaji^ 



•janiY 'jaaj pas 

 •xai^oipajDu^saa 

 -3)3 'saiaad's 8ui 

 -paaajd jo jaquih{{ 



-3)3 'sapsds 

 JO jaqamu' lojox 



-5881 '89-9981 

 '6e-l't8r«-'«3-<6S 

 uo!)H)idp3Jd ait3iY 



•ajnjcjadina) uoaj^ 



-J3IIIV "luaa pire 



•X9I^OipaiOUJS3J 



'-D)a 'sapadx 8ui 

 -paaaid jo jaqinh},; 



'3)3 'g3l33d8 



JO jsquina' jbioj. 



ui w 03 OS -"i; X X M_ c- X ;o U5 

 -T '-i' t>I x' O c' / ~' X 1^' — ' -r 



.-iCO : :i-iCl 



B * t>^ ^h' CO f' x" X d ^t -.2 yi x3 



2 _^e405C:Mt^^OMi-H 



S (N C^l r-l M 



loc^w^eooit^io-io'*.-! 



•W8I '•««»>« I "«™ 

 -jtinosBjXj 'aoi) 

 -Blidiaajd iraa]^ 



\ 'nv\\moov\x\ 

 'ajiDtuaduia) usaj^ 



•jo'iiv I'l^.l ["TO 

 -I . "ituns 



'0)9 '■atMda 

 JO joqamu' piioj. 



•* t>. »C CO -"T O ^ 



2 ! 



. I 



^ ?r ^ ?r M S" S" 00 M "?" o cs to 



•-C'it>-icr>-»c-<cot>-o»cO'*' 

 " X c^i — ^ ^ -< CO t~ r- <o «c ^-' 



Cl— XC-^C-Ci — rixt^x 



CO •^ M »H 



.6^ S 



? 5 H 



3 s-r- 



S' 



" = ^ 3 s « 



S^ 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



483 



S 



S 





-ZZ8I 'sJBa.t c-i 



16 



-ii8I 'sj«aX gt 



-jaiuy 'juao pire 

 'xai(0)paoM)sai 

 '-3)9 'tiaioad's i^ui 

 -pauajd JO jaqconj^ 



'3)9 'saiaads 

 JO jaquma' lw)OX 



0061-6881 

 'uvaX. 21 nop 



•0061 

 -6881 'WBOX zi 

 sjniBjadcDa) uB9|f 



-jamy juaj pas 



-X9KO) p9)3U1Ba( 



■■3)9 'sajsad's Hxn 

 -p939Jd JO J9qainj^ 



t>. -V '—^ t>. '-'_ 



•C X -r •?• — O 



— _ t>; C5 t>. ^_ O CI O rt_ X lO O 



cs n »c"r^ 00 r>^ o o o 'i< cc pi 



O 



i-iCWMCO.-it*i-(.-( 



X lO M/.r 



• —' — '1' C O — * — ' t>.' (N IC •** OS 

 C »H rt •'T !»3 Ci f »C — IM »0 CO 

 S PJ C^ (M C^J fC CO rt 



X C<3 00 -r i-t_ — X t^ X '.O ^_ 30 



x' C5 ci o o o ci ci o" cri ci 00 



.^rH—iPlCi:-! — — — — — -H 



pixO'rosoosxoo»'«"« 



96-5681 «J*9-t 2 , ^' — — -< ?i c^i c-i *i M ?j — -H ^ 

 ajn)U9dui9) uit9|( ^ 



'Moiv 'ta93 pa« 



'X9|^01p913IJ)lt9J 

 ''319 't9l.>3<(H XllI 

 -p939Jd ju J<>t|Uin{{ 



*3)9 *V9T09<fff 



jo j9qtunu° |«ioj, 



l^i 





S<J''»^ i't*^ 0Ce:<— 





»-< : ^ 



S^ 



^ o £ e ■'' ^ S -/. C « 



c . = - "^ "^ ---o 



,-= -x i^ c ? ^ 



3 



6.^ ;-5 8- -w 

 s v.- J a- 3^ J 




484 PROCEEDIN'GS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



and fall far short of givinj; a comjilete ))icture of the Odonate fauna. 

 It is also clear, especially from the Cucrnavaca list, where the same 

 species appear at frequent intervals throughout the year, that a num- 

 ber of diflferent, perhaps overlapping, broods must exist, as there is no 

 reason for supposing that the life of an individual imago is prolonged 

 for many months. 



RaiJifall and Odonata on the Atlantic a7}d Pacific Slopes. — Various 

 authors^ have remarked the greater abundance of species of animals, 

 including insects, on the Atlantic than on the Pacific slope of Mexico 

 and much of Central America. Sumichrast (I.e., p. 5) has attrib- 

 uted the relative poverty of the Pacific slope of Tehuantepec and 

 adjoining areas in birds to "the extreme dryness of the soil; to the 

 scarcity of vegetation and of insect life; and to the duration of the 

 winds from the northeast and southwest which there prevail with great 

 violence." Harrington" has concluded that for Central America, 

 "The rainfall is greater on the Atlantic than on the Pacific side as two 

 or three to one." Table 11 gives the distribution of the Odonata 

 on these sides and on the ^lexican plateau for the whole of our district, 

 from which it appears that the total number of Atlantic slope species 

 is 235 against 181 for the Pacific, a proportion of nearly 4 to 3. Tables 

 6-8 (pages 471-473) give the proportions for Mexico, Guatemala and 

 Costa Rica respectively as, approximately, 4 to 3, 4 to 2, 4 to 4^. 



Neither the rainfall nor the Odonate fauna can be summarized so 

 briefly, however, as local conditions may cause both of these to xary. 

 Not only the map of Puga,** but also the publications of Sapper^ and 

 of Lottermoser*' show as heavy a rainfall on parts of the Pacific slope 

 of Mexico and Guatemala as on the Atlantic side. The Odonate 

 fauna of Altamira and Tampico, in Tamaulipas, numbers 40 species- 

 that of Tepic 42; for Jalapa, Vera Cruz, we know 24 species, for Guada; 

 lajara 50; for the vicinity of the city of Vera Cruz, including Modcllin, 



" Sumiflirast, rpioted by Lawrence (Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 4. 1876) for 

 birds of tlio I.stlimiis of Trinmntopcc. (Jodinan (liinl. Cent. :\inrr. Lepid. Wwpal., 

 I, p. vi, 1901) for L<'i)i(lo[)tcrji Hliojjjiloccra ni'ii'Tiilly " to j)crli.'ips jus far soutli as 

 (Vwta Kira." V. Miirtcrm {Biol. Cent. Anier. Land a ml rre.sfnc. Mall., p. xxvii) 

 for this fcroiip to the samo distance; lin (•orn'Iat«-s tlic greater al)uii(lanoe of 

 HpecifH with tho Kroatcr area f)f tlu; Atlantic slope of Mexico, Guateiuala Hon- 

 duniM and Nicaragua. Champion (Kntom. News, XVII 1, p. 3;i, 11K)7) for insects 

 of (iiiatomala. 



" Bull. I'hUoK. Sor.., WasliinKton, XIII, p. 7, ISOf). 



" " F>iHtribiici»»n «le las Muviits en la Kepublica Mexicana, " Mem. Soc. Cien., 

 "Antr.nio Alzate," XVI, 1<K)1. 



" rrtennann'H Millh., XMII, pp. 117 et acq. and map, 1S97; Una Niirilliche 

 Mittflnmrrikn, w. \>i2'',i\ MiUclntneriknuiHchc liehcn u. .'^linHin, pp. 299-300. 



** Meteorot. ZeiUchr., XXIII, pp. 237 ct acq., IIKX, 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



485 



Table 11. — Distribution of the Species, etc., of Odonat.\ of Mexico 

 AND Centr.\l America bv Slopes and (in Mexico) 

 the Central Plateau. 

 (A = Atlantic, P = Pacific, slope;" C = Central Mexican plateau.) 



11 species are now recorded, for Acapulco 19. In Pacific Guatemala 

 the highest number recorded for one locality is 20 at Santa Lucia, 

 which is e.\ceo<led at various stations on the Atlantic slope, but this 

 latter has received much more attention from the collectors whose 

 material is accessible. 



Generally we may conclude that the hot moist areas of Mexico and 

 Central America are tenantcnl by the greatest number of forms of 

 Odonata, present information pointing to the richest areas as lying 

 in temperature zone III and the higher parts of zone II, on the Atlantic 

 slope, from the centre of the .Statt? of \era Cruz southward, these 

 areas having a heavy annual rainfall. 



In this connection may b(' mentioned the suggestion of a po-ssible 



" The Utiuh ".\tlaiilic" and "Pacific slopes" an- hen- ased in tlie wide sense 

 a.s nnbraciiiK: («) in .Mexico all tlic descending lands fn>ni tlie ontlines of the 

 plateau, iLHsliown on our map (Plate X.W'I), to the (iulf of .Mexico on the one jtiile 

 and to the Paf-jfic Ocean and (Julf of Cahfornia on the otlu-r; {/») in .Nlexico 

 south of the plateau and in Central .\inerica, tu correti|)onding to the Atluulic 

 and I'acific drainage areus re«iH-ctivuly. 




486 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [( )ct., 



correlation between paleness of wing-veins and dryness of climate,'* 

 which seenis to receive some support from Argia moesta^^ and Enal- 

 lagma civile;*'^ but, on the other hand, appears to be negatived by 

 specimens of Enallagma procvarum from many of the same localities 

 which furnish E. civile.*^ 



Whatever of a more exact character we learn in the future of the 

 dependence of these insects on climatic conditions, we must conceive 

 of the latter as operating in a manner which may be compared to the 

 beating of the waves upon a shore. A higher temperature and a 

 more copious rainfall, together or singly, advance upward to a greater 

 elevation or northward to a higher latitude, making possible the exist- 

 ence of certain speci&s in the larval state where they were previously 

 unknown. The next year, or after several years, these favorable con- 

 ditions retreat down the mountain slopes or southward along the 

 coastal plains, and the species whose existence they permittetl dis- 

 appear from certain localities for a longer or shorter period of time 

 until the necessary conditioas are again established.''^ To demon- 

 strate the correctness of this view such continuous observatioiLS at a 

 number of stations as were mentioned above (page 479) are essential. 



ReL.YTIOXS OF THE OdOXATE FaUNA TO VEGETATION ArEAS. 



Dr. Charles C. Adams, whose recent researches have been directed 

 chiefly to the detection of the relatioas of faume to their physiographic 

 surroundings, has suggested to me to endeavor to correlate the dis- 

 tribution of these insects with that of vegetation areas, the latter to 

 serve as indices of the general physical features of the countiy. In 

 this attempt I have employed Dr. Karl Sapper's vegetation maps of 

 Central America,*' locating the various places at which the Odonata 

 have been collected in his zones and tabulating the distribution of 

 the species accordingly. The results, save in a few instances to be 

 mentioned shortly, have been unsatisfactory, as the great majority 

 of species appear in several columns of the tabulation. Thus of 133 



"Biol. Cent.-Amer. Neurop., p. 23.5. 



*L.r., p. 361. 



« L.c, pp. 1 10, 3.S0. 



«' L.c, p. ;i80. . 



" Sonii! n-marks by Mr. S. E. Meek (Puhlicat. Field Cnhinih. Mus. Chicago, 

 V, pp. xxvi-xxvii, lljiiji), on tlie effects on tlie fi.sli fauna of fluctuationa in bocUes 

 of water on the northern part of the Mexican plateau, may also be applied to 

 <J<lonate larvfn. 



** In iJuJt StJrdlirhe M illrlnmerikn (map dated ISO.")), ISH?, and Millclaweri- 

 kaniHche liciitcn urul Slitdirn (map datrd IfXJO), 11K)2. Tlicre is also a larger 

 weale map for (Juatr-mala «)nly, datfd ISO I, in I'ctcriii.iiiir.s Miltliril., lOrgan- 

 zung»band XX IV', 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 487 



species so tabulated, six (IlcUerinn crucntota, Argia fissa, A. cxtrama, 

 Acanthagrion gracile, Ischnura ramburi var. credula, Perithetnis domitia 

 iris) occur in all of the four zones in which these insects have been 

 collected, viz. (names as given in Sapper's, 1895, map for CJuatemala)- 

 1. Savannas and stretches of primeval forest alternatin.;; (^vet), 2. 

 Tropical and subtropical rainy forests, 3. Oak and pine foro>ts of the 

 hot and temperate climates, 4. Grass- and bush-steppes and dry- 

 forests. Twenty-four species {HeUcrina tricolor, H. .macropus, Argia 

 'pulla, A. indicatrix, A. cenea, Enallagma ccpcum novce-hispanioe, 

 Telebasis salva, Lrploha.^is vacilhiis, Uracis imbiita, Orthemis ferru- 

 ginca, 0. krU, Erythrodiplax funerea, E. umbrata, E. ochracca, 

 E. connata var. d, Dythemis relox, D. cannacrioides, Brechmorhoga 

 prcvcox, B. incquiuiiguis. Mdrrotluniis pscudimitans, Pallothcmis 

 linecUipes, Sympetrum illotum virg^ulum, Enjthemis verbenala, 

 Leplhemis vesiculosa) appear in three zones. More than thirty species 

 (iiioluding such endemic forms as Cora marina, Heteragrion tri- 

 Ciiliulare, Argia frequentula, Telebasis digitlcollis, Neoneura 

 amelia, Erpeto;;omphus viperinus, Brechmorhoga pertinax) are 

 common to zones 2 and 4, but not to othei's. 



This does not necessarilj' mean that a correlation of Odonate species 

 with vegetation formations does not exist. It may be that slight 

 local differences of too small an area to be shown on the maps employed , 

 or that our data based solely on the images, not on the larvrr, are 

 respoiLsible for its apparent absence." 



The few instances, above referred to, in which some correlation 

 seems to exi-^t are those of certain Odonata occurring in the troj)ical 

 and subtropical rainy forest areas, as the species of Protoncura , Para- 

 phh'bia, Argiallagma, Ephidalia and NephcpcUia, and, less certainly, 

 of other genera of the legions Podagrion and Protoneura. From 

 the notes of coljectoi-s whicii have been quoted under the respective 

 species**'* it would also appear that membere of the legion P.seudostigma 

 are dwellei-s in forests,*" although not necessarily wet forests. 



** Those disposed to make further researches as to tlie existence of such cor- 

 p'hitioris will doul)tlc'.s.s liiul a-<si.stan«'<' in .Scilor Jose llaiiiin>z' "La V«'K«'(acion 

 (if Mexico" (Atutlcs, Minislrrin </<• Fomcnto, Hepub. Mrx., XI, pp. 227-4Sl>, 

 ISOS). His botHiiieo-Ki'ojjra|)liical n-nions, however, are not shown on any 

 of tlie maps aceoinpanyiiiR his nuMiioir. 



^ liinl. Crnl.-AmtT. S'rfirop., pp. ^iH, .'>»», .3.').1. Cf. also S«'iys, Mem. Couron. 

 Arml. Sri. Hrlij., X.XXVIN. p. U. fcM.tnote, 1HS(1. 



*• Witli till- elcarinjj ol ihcsi' forests, now apparently in profjre.ss (cf. licit, 

 .Xitlunilisl in Xicnraffitn, pp. IS.'! •'»; Sapper, M iltrtiiinrrtkntiisrhf liris. u. Stud., 

 pp. .'iOS-O), wu must prolmoly expert the disappearance of the.se Odonuta. 




4s8 proceedings of the academy of [oct, 



Relations of the Odoxate Fauna to Altitude. 



Table 9, page 476, in connection with the map (Plate XXVI), may be 

 used as iiidicatino; not only temperature zones, but also the elevated 

 or non-elevated character of the country in which Odonata have been 

 found, the higher zone numbers corresponding to higher altitudes. 

 Zone II in Central America and in Mexico south of 20° X. Lat. (25° 

 X. Lat. on the Pacific side) embraces all the low coast lands. The 

 highest point on the Atlantic slope of Mexico to which it attains 

 appears to be Actopan/^ in Vera Cruz (311 m.^*), whence it descends 

 to sea-level south of Tuxpan, while on the Pacific slope it reaches 487 

 m. at the city of Colima^^ and sea-level north of Culiacan. Its upper 

 limit in Central America is about 270 m. 



Xorth of zone II the coasts of Mexico fall in zone III, which, 

 with the higher parts of zone II. includes ever^^where the gradually 

 ascending slopes of the central plateaus and mountain ranges to an 

 elevation of about 1,160 in. in Central America, 1,560 m. at Oaxaca 

 City, 1,000 m. at Mirador, Vera Cruz, 700 m. in Xuevo Leon and higher 

 than this last in Sonora. 



In zones I\' and V the larger rivers arise, to descend (except in some 

 parts of northern Mexico) through zones III and II to the sea. Zone 

 IV extends to an elevation of 2,050 m. in Central America, 2,200 m. 

 in the southern part of the Mexican plateau, but to not above 1,200- 

 1,300 m. in places in Xew Mexico. 



The only species which appear to be exclusively confined to the 

 actual sea-coast are A^shna brcvifrons, Erijthrodiplax bcrcnice meva 

 and Tramea lonxjicaudd \ar. Lihellula auripennis is chiefly a sea-coast 

 species, but in Mexico, as in the United States, has lieen found elsewhere. 

 A larger number (16)"'" of forms are not known to dt'scend below the 

 lower limits of zone IV and are, in our district, markedly highland 

 species. Such an' Hetserina tolteca, H. maxima, Cora skinneri, 

 Lestes hcnsham, Argia terira, herberti, chelata and tonto, I'ro- 

 gomphus obscurus borealis, Cordulegaster godmani, /Eshna dugesi, 

 Plathemis subornatn, Libcllula comanrhr, foliata, iiodislicld and luduosd. 

 Tiif remaining 274 forms have an intermediate or a more varied habitat, 



*' .Mort'iio y .\nda arnl fJomcz, El Clima de In Rrpiihl. Afex., .\n<i TI, p. l.'iG. 



** lirvixln Siir. Cicu., ".Viildiiio Alzatc," X.XIIJ, pp. M, 32, lUO.'j. 



** Uiiun, Hdh. (I. Klimiil»lt,(iir, lUr. .\ufpul)c, II, p. 2Sr>. 



"Tlic ap^)ar«nt (liscn-p.-iiK y iM-twccn fliis fimm- (Ki) and that to be obtained 

 (19) fnnii 'labi<' '.), pap' ITd, is due to tlic fact tliat the throe other .specioH or 

 varieties, Anax liniffiins and Kri/lhrodi/ilnjr cimiiata n' and c' , whih- a.s yet fmind 

 only in zone IV in Mexico and (Vntral .Vrneriea, iiave been taken at lower levels 

 in .South America or in the West IndieH. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIE.NX'ES OF PHILADELPHIA, 4S9 



in some cases restricted apparently to a single locality (Hetaerina 

 rudis), in others having a wide range of elevation, as from the sea- 

 coast to the central plateau {Anomalagrion Jiastatum, Ceratura capreola). 

 Where the same species of Ischnura has been found at quite different 

 altitudes, a slight increase in body size and in the number of post- 

 cubitals has heen detected in specimens from the higher stations.*' 



In concluding this discussion of the relations of the Odonata to vari- 

 ous factors of their environment, lists of the forms recorded from a 

 few localities of decidedly different physical character are appended. 

 See also the lists given for the Distrito Fetleral, Cuernavaca and San 

 Jos6 on page 481. 



Guzman, Chihuahua (desert of Xortlicm Mexican plateau, mean annual 

 temperature probably near lb° C. or 64 F.; altitude 1,341 metres or 4,4UU feet), 

 all the ioUowing species were seen or taken A\ig. (3 and 7, 1906: Argia moesta, 

 Enallngma civile, I.schnura rambtiri var. credulu, Aymx (JuHiuxl), PUUliemis 

 suhonutla. Orthemis ferruginea, Tramea sp., PaiUaUi /larcscens, Sijmiyetrum cor- 

 rupluin, Krythemis sim pi ici colli s or its .sui)specie.s collocnta. 



Mazatla.v (Pacific sea-coast, mean annual temp. l,SSt)-1902, 24.9° C. or 76.8° 

 F. ; mean ann. rainfall 1S,S()-1901, 806 mm. or li'I.'I'y inches): Mecistogasler 

 ornatus, Argin pulla, Ennlldgma ccecuin noiuc-hisfxinid', Leplobasis vacillans, 

 Ischnura rambxiri and var. crcditln, Pseudoleon supcrbus, Orlhcmis ferruginca, 

 Erythrodiplax funerea, Brechmcjrhoga postlobata, .U*/rro//ic/n('s iiiocuta, Miathi/ria 

 viarcilln, Tnumd longicdmld \;ir., T. onustd, Pinittiln jiavescetus, P. hymemva, 

 Perithcnti.s doinitia iiUcntta, Cunnarria batesii, Erylhemis verbenata, Leplhemis 

 I'esiculoHa. 



Atoyac, Vera Cruz (moist .\tlantic slope of Mexico, cf. page 480 a;i/rn; mean 

 ann. temp. prcji)ably about 22.7° C. or 72.9" F.; ;ill. Kit) m. or 1,314 tt.): Uctarimi 

 cruentntd, II . tilid, II. inacrupus^ H. infccta, Cora marina, A rchilcstrs grnndis, Lcslcs 

 tetiiidhis, Miijdloprepus cceriilatiis, Pscudostigma abcrran.s, Mcristi>iid<fer ornalu.-i 

 and modestus, Ilrlerngrion chry.sops, II iipninnr<i junrki, Argia pcrcollulata, trans- 

 Idtd, frequentula, ulmeca, oculdta, cuprea, anca, fi.ssa and cxtrdiicd, Anisagrion 

 lais, Kndlldi/iiid rfpciim norw-hisptDiia', Acanlfuigrion grncilr, Lvptobusia racilldus, 

 Pahtmncma paulina ami angchna. Prutoneura atirantiaca, Qumphoidcs suasa, 

 lirpcfogomphus vipcrinus .unl ophibolus, Cyanogomphus ('.') tumcns, .Kshmi 

 coritii/iid, rin Ns and p( rnnsi , (iyiDicdiitlid Irljitlii and libidtd, Libclluld ficrritU'd, 

 Pseudoleon .supcrbus, Tlidlyini.s cilrind, Micrdlliyria ditlynui, di.ssocinns and occll<tld, 

 (trlhiiiiis jcrruginra and Icrix, CdniuiphiUi vihcx, Aiuitya gutUitn, Erythrodiplax 

 funerea, ui/ibrtiln. orlirdcvn, connala vars. d .'uid e, iJythemis relox, Brcchmorhoga 

 vivax, jirdcdx, pcrtinax, and inc(miungui'<, Mocrothcmin psnidiinihins and hcrui- 

 cftloni, Midlhip-id simplex, Tauripnila azteca, Pcrilhcmin domiliu iris and d. monma, 

 Erylhemis perurituut, atldln ami icrbnidtd, Lrplhcmis vcniciildsa. 



I'lKUTo Haijhio.s (.\tlantic coast of (luntt mala, .see pap- 4S0; iman ann. temp, 

 for 1896, 2<>.8° C. or 80.3° F.): Ilcturitui tricolor, litia and miniata, lUtcrdgrion 

 rhrysopf, Anjio Irdiisldtd, gaumeri, frequentula and indicalrix, Acdnthngrion 

 f/rcir/'/r.Tclcbasis digiticollis, A nomidngfidn linstuliiin, Ccrdtiirn coprroln, Nconcura 

 paya, Protoncura amatoria, Epliiilntid lungiprs cubetisi.i, i'rari.s iiubntn, Micrd 

 Ihifrin drbili.t and eximia, ScfihvpcUid phryuc, Aruilya tiorm(diti, Erylhrodiplnx 

 iimhroln, ochrncca, muntttd vars. r, d, r, Dylhcmi.s velui, Mncrothemis hcmichlord, 

 Tauriphila nrgo, Trnmcn insulitris, Pantala flavescens, Perilhemis domitia iris, 

 Eri/lhrmis vcrbrndtd, Lrplhcmis irsinilnsd. 



San (ikkonimo (clrv, elevated central (Miatemala; mean ann. temp, probably 

 20°-2l° C. or r>.S°-60.8° F.; mean ann. rainfall l.'.ss tbaii 1,(MK) mm. or 40 inch.s; 

 alt. iXK) m, or 2,9.50 ft.): HeUirina cruenUita, capilalis and rudis, AmphiiMeri/x 



»' liiol. Cutr.-Amcr. S'eiirop., pp. as7 .'ISO. 




490 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



agrioides, Cora marina, Archileslea grandis, Heteragrion triccllulare, //v/)rt?iCHra 

 fiincki, Argia pssa, Aainthagrion gracile, Tclebasis salva, Auu»ialogrion haKtalum, 

 Progoniphus pi/ginants^ Erpetogomphus viperinus and eiaps, Anax amazUi, .Enhna 

 multicolor and lufeipennlfi, Gi/nacantlia i<cptiinn, Orlheniis frrruginca, Camwphila 

 rihcx, Erjthrodiplax funerca, umbrata and connalo var. d, Dythemis vclox and 

 maya, Brechmorhoga pertinax, rajxix and ifiequiitn^uis, Macrothetnis pf:cudi- 

 inilans, PuUothemis linealipes, Tramea abdominalis, Pantala flavesceyis, Lepthemis 

 t'csiculusa. 



Cachi, Costa Rica (moist Atlantic slope; mean ann. temp, probably about 

 20X1° C. or 69° F.; mean ann. rainfall 1902-04, 2,200 mm. or 86.78 inches; alt. 

 1,020 m. or 3,34.5 ft.): Hetcerina cruentata, tnocropus, capiialif! and maiuscula, 

 Archilestes grandis, Megaloprepus ca-rulatus, Mecistogaster modestus, Hclera- 

 grion chrysops and erjthrogastrum, Argia frequentula, rogersi, fif^sa, variabilis, 

 and exlranea, Anisagrion allopterum and var. rubicundum, Eiiallagma ccccum 

 norcc-hisponicr. Epigomphus tumefactus and subobtusus, Anax amazili, JEshna 

 hileipennis, Gipwainlliu Irifula, Libelhda hercidea, Orthemis fcrruginea. CannaphUa 

 vibex, Erj'throdiplax funerea and connata var. d, Brechmorhoga vivax, 

 pertinax and rnjxix, Paltothcmis lineati pc^ , Pantala flarcttcen^. 



SuRUBRES, Costa Rica (Pacific .slope, drier; mean ann. temp, probablv about 

 2.5° C. or 77° F.; alt. ^bout 2,50 m. or 820 ft.): Hetaerina fuscoguttata, 

 cnientnta and mncropua, Mecistogaster ornotus^ Hcteragrion erythrogastrum, 

 Perilcstes fragilis, Argia translata, tezpi, pidla, frequentula, adamsi, difficilis, 

 cupraurea and cenea, Acanthagrion gracile, Ccratura capreola, Uracis imbida and 

 fastigintn, Orthemis ferruginea, Erythrodiplax funerea and connata vars. c 

 and e, Dythemis velox, Brechmorhoga vivax, Macrothemis Itemichlora. 



Explanation of Plate XXVI. 



Map showing the distribution of actual mean temperatures in Mexico and 

 Central America. 



Tlii.s map wius especially prepared by the writer for the Biologia Centrali- 

 Americana volume Xeuroptern. Acknowledgment is due to Dr. F. D. Godman, 

 editor of that work, for permission to reproduce it here. It is based on data 

 from the following .sources : 



For the United States: Prof. A. J. Henrv's "Tlie Climatology of the United 

 States" {Bulletin Q, U. S. Weather Z^?/reau, "Washington, D. C, 1900, 4to). 



For Mexico: 1. A map, 97 x 71.5 cm., in tlio lil)rary of the -\cademy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, inscribed merely "Carta Climatologica. Seliastian 

 K.-y.'s. P. I. S-nties. A. Donamette Imp. Escalade 1 : .'iOOO.dOO. Gravee 

 rhcz Monrocn fr. P.'iris." Tiianks to the Secretaria de Estado y del De.spacho 

 de Fomeiito C<tlonizacion e Industria of Mexico, I am informed, \inder date of 

 July 30, 19(J7, "fpie dicha Carta fue publicada en 1889 por disposicion de esta 

 S<*crctaria. haciendo los tral)ajos relativos los Sres. Pedro J. Senties, que era 

 Director <le la E^cuela Nacional de .Vgricultura y Con)isionado de Mexico en la 

 Kxposici((n de Paris del mismo afio y Sebastian Reyes que fue Profesor del 

 Plantel antes inencif)nado. " Tiiis map was reproduced witliout alteration, but 

 on a reduced scali- (1 : 6,000 000), in Tome XI, Anales del Ministcrio de Fomcnto 

 de In Iif]>ublicn Mcxicann, .Mexico, 189S. 



2. A map entitled "Reparticion de la Temperatura en la Repiililica Mexicana" 

 for the "Alio Meteoro^jgico de 1902," pul)lislied a.s Planclia 16. Boletin Mensuel, 

 Observatorio Mrtrorolngico-Magnetico Central de Mixico, Noviemlire, HK)2. Sefior 

 D<in Manuf'l E. Pastrana, Director o( the Ob.servatorio, hius kindly informed 

 me (S<'pt. 6, 1907) that the maps for later years have not been i)ulilishcd. 



3. A numlxT of t«'mf)<'rature data for 70 stations in thf State of Vera Cruz 

 and 49 in other parts of .M«\ieo. gathered from all accessible so\irces and pub- 

 lishecl bv the writer in the Montfdii Weather I{rrieu\ \{\\. XXW'I, .\o. 4, pages 

 03 97 \ViLshingtori. D. ('.. .\pril. l'K),S. Iss\ied June Hi, 1'.>0S. 



4. The topograpliy of the country as given in tlie map i.ssucd by tlie P.ureau 

 of American Republics, \^'a.shitlgton, D.C.. HKM). The limits of the central jiiatc'iu 

 are taken from the map |)ublished in the Boletin Mensuci, Observat. Mctvor.-May. 

 Cent. Mex. for July, 1901. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 491 



It should bo added that the existence of zone I, vdth a mean annual tempera- 

 ture of more than 30° C, rests solely on tlie authority of the map of Senties 

 and Reyes, that it is doubted by Senor Pastrana, and that I have not succeeded 

 in finding any records of temperature observations in the valley of the Rio de 

 las BaLsas for a period of more than two months. 



For Ceniral America, the temperature records quoted in the paper in the 

 Monthhi Weather Review, above mentioned, indicate that in Guatemala and Costa 

 Rica tlie annual isotherms of 25°, 20°, 15°, 10° and 5° C. are situated approxi- 

 mately at elevations of 270, 1,160, 2,050, 2,9.50 and 3,840 metres respectively. 

 The present map, so far as Central .Vmerica is concerned, has been made from 

 the topographical maps of Dr. Sapper (Petermann's Mittheilungen, L, 1904, and 

 Erganzxingshdnder XXVII and XXXII, 1S99 and 1905; and Miltelamerikan- 

 iscfie liciscn und Studien, Braunschweig, 1902) and of tlie Bureau of American 

 Republics for Guatemala (1902), Nicaragua (1903) and Costa Rica (1903), by 

 using these equivalents. 




492 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct. 



A KEVIEW OF THE GENUS PIAYA Lesson. 

 HV WITMEH .STONK. 



While rearranging the Cuckoos in the collection of the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences my attention was attracted to the type specimen 

 of Piaija macroura Gambel. The apparent omission of this species 

 from Dr. Bowdler Sharpe's Hand List of Birds letl me to make a critical 

 study of the genus, the results of which are embodied in the present 

 paper. 



I am under obligations to the United States National ^fuseum 

 through Dr. Charles W. Richmond, and to the American Museum of 

 Natural History through Mr. Frank M. Chapman, for the loan of large 

 series of specimens of the genus, without which nn- investigation would 

 not have been possible. The material loaned b}' these iiLstitutions, 

 together with that in the Academy's Museum, numbers 259 specimens 

 distributed as follows: ^lexico, 64; Central America. 59; Panama. 13; 

 Colombia, 26; Venezuela, 18; Ecuador, 8; Brazil, 32; Guiana, 6; 

 Bolivia, 2; Peru, 4; Paraguay, 2; Trinidad, 8. 



The genus Piaya includes two very well-marked species, P. mclano- 

 gcLstra and /-'. rutilus, and a number of allied geographic races which 

 have generally been combined under the name P. cayana. 



The first two offer but fewdifRcultios, and it is the cayana group that 

 has causetl confu.sion in the nomenclature of the genus. The forms 

 of Piaya cayana may be roughly divided into three groups according 

 to the color of the upper surface. In grouj) (1) it is bright ferruginous ;' 

 (2) bay inclining to chestnut; (3) walnut brown tinged with chestnut. 

 Beginning at the northern part of the range of the genus, we have in 

 western Mexico a large form of the ferruginous group {vicxicann), 

 while in eastern Mexico, extending throughout Central America and 

 Panama, is a totally different form of the chestnut-backed group 

 (mchlcri). The individuals are quite uniform over this large area, 

 with the exception of the size of the bill, which is smaller in Mexican 

 and Yucatan birds than in th<xse from Nicaragua and Costa Rica. 



In the Cauca river valley of Colombia is a slightly different form 

 {caxicce), in which the llanka as well as the crissum are black, this 



' All colore arc based on T^idRway's nomonrlattirr of rnlnrs. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 493 



color encroaching farther upon the gray abdomen than in any other 

 form. In northeastern Colombia (Santa Marta to Bogota) and the 

 western portion of Venezuela is a light bird of the "ferruginous" 

 group (columbiana) , practically identical with the form of western 

 Mexico except for its much larger bill. Farther east, from the Orinoco 

 \alle3' throughout Guiana, is another of the chestnut-backed forms 

 (cayana), similar to that from Central America, while to the southwest 

 is still another {nigricrissa) , ranging over eastern Colombia through 

 Ecuador and Peru. Both of these differ from the Central American 

 bird in dimensions and in the almost total lack of brown on the under 

 surface and the tail which is uniform black, while the Guiana form 

 differe further in having gray under-tail coverts instead of dull black. 

 On the Island of Trinidad is a diminutive ferruginous-backed bird 

 (insulana), otherwise similar to the Central American form. In 

 southern Brazil, from Bahia and Matto Grosso, is a larger very pale bird 

 (pallesccns) of the ferruginous type. 



In Paraguay, and doubtless in parts of Argentina and southern Brazil, 

 occurs the largest form of all {macroura), with a different coloration 

 from any of the more northern races, the back being walnut brown 

 tinged with chestnut. In Bolivia and southern Peru is a smaller race 

 of this same style of bird (6o/u'iana), differing further in its gray instead 

 of black under-tail coverts. 



Three of the races of Piaya cayana seem to have been described by 

 early non-binomial authors. Hernandez's C^uapactotl being in all 

 I)rol)al>ility the east Mexican bird, while Brisson's CucuJus cayenensis 

 is und()ubte<lly the form from Cayenne and Azara's Tingazu the verj' 

 large dark bird of Paraguay. 



Linnffius established Brisson's bird in l)inomial nomenclature as 

 Coccyzus cayanus and Gmelin gave the name Coccyzus ridibumlus 

 to the Quapactotl of Hernandez, quoting the original more or less 

 indefinite description, as was done also by Ray, BufTon and Latham, 

 tlie last of whom designated it as the Laughing liird. Later Stephens 

 inadvertently cliange<l Gmelin's name {oruhicundus, but added nothing 

 to the original diagnosis. This — viz.: "C. fulvius, gula, jugulo, et 

 poctore cinereis, abdomine, fcmoribus et tectricibus cavuhe inferioribus 

 iiigris. L. lOins. Tail half the Icngtii of tlicbody. Hal)., Nova Hi.spana" 

 — seems not clearly identifiable, although it is adde<l to the synonymy 

 of Pidi/d cayana by Capt, Shelly without question in \'ol. XIX of the 

 liritish .Miiseum Catalogue of liirds, where all tlirsc forms are lumped 

 un<ler the aljove name. 



Vieillot, in 1.S17, gave the name mncroccrcus collectively to the 

 32 




494 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



P. cayana of Linnaeus and allied forms, several of which were described 

 but not named. 



Swainson, 1827, named the light-colored western ]Mexican bird 

 viexicana, and 1837 modified Linnaeus' name cayanus into cayennensis, 

 which was the form in which it had been used by Brisson. 



Gambel, 1849, described the large Paraguay bird as Piayamacroura, 

 but erroneously credited his specimen to Surinam, as pointed out by 

 Cabanis {Mus. Hein., IV, p. 87). Dr. J. A. Allen {Bull. Amer. Mus. 

 Nat. Hist, V, p. 137, 1893) correctly states that Gambel regarded P. 

 cayana L. and P. mexicana as identical, but his description of macroura 

 could never apply to cayana as Dr. Allen claims. Gambel states that 

 the crissum is black and the length of tail is 15 inches, while P. cayana 

 has a gray crissum and a tail only 9.50 inches in length (Dr. Allen's 

 measurement) ! 



Bonaparte, 1850, also describes the large Paraguaj^ bird as P. circe 

 from a specimen erroneously recorded as from Colombia (error in local- 

 ity also pointed out by Cabanis, I.e.) and describes as new another 

 bird, P. mehlerijivovci Bogota. This name has caused much trouble to 

 subsequent authors. For a time it was used for the small form occur- 

 ring from southeastern Colombia to Ecuador and Peru. Then Dr. 

 Sclater examined the type in the Paris Museum and stated (P. Z. S., 

 1860, p. 285) that it was identical with the east Mexican and Central 

 American bird, claiming that tlie t^qie locality must have been wrong. 

 Subsequently Dr. Allen and also Mr. Hartert {Nov. ZooL, V, 499) have 

 used the name again for the Ecuador bird, and it so stands in Sharpe's 

 Hand List. 



The examination of the type ought to settle a question of this kind, 

 and I can see no reason why Dr. Sclater's statement should be ignored. 



Cabanis' review of the genus {Mus. Hein., IV, p. 82, 1S62) is a remark- 

 ably accurate piece of work. He describes as new the well-marked 

 forms pallescens, guianensis and columbianus, and clearly diagnoses 

 as distinct mcxicanus Swainson, 77lacrn^^rus Gambel, nigricn'ssa Sclater, 

 cayana Linn, and mchlcri Bon. His new species mesurus, however, 

 seems not separable from his columbianus. 



In Dr. J. A. Allen's brief review of the genus {Bull. A7ncr. Mus. 

 Nat. Hist., V, p. 136, 1893) he falls into several errors, largely through 

 lack of material, having no specimens of the light colored bird of 

 northern Colombia and Venezuela, nor of the very large dark form from 

 Paraguay. 



He ignored Cabanis' exlpanation of the true nature of Gambel's 

 macroura, making it a synonym of myana in spite of the discrepancies 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 495 



in size and color; and then identified the macroura of Cabanis with his 

 new race cabanisi, a pale bird differing only slightly in measurements 

 from pallescens Cab., from which it does not seem separable. 



As a matter of fact macroura and "cabanisi" differ more in color than 

 do mexicana and mehleri, which Dr. Allen regarded as the most distinct 

 of any of the races. 



Dr. Allen used Bonaparte's name mchlcri for the Ecuador bird, 

 apparently overlooking Sclater's statement, but he rightly surmised 

 that the Bolivian birds were separable, though he allied them to the 

 Ecuador form instead of to 7?20croura, to which they are closely related. 

 P. circe Bon., correctly referred to macroura by Cabanis, is doubtfully 

 referred to mehleri by Dr. Allen. 



Hcllmayr {Nov. ZooL, XIII, p. 43) describes as new the Trmidad 

 bird, calling it insulana, and gives a good rfeum6 of the several forms 

 recognized by him. He here distinguishes guiauensis from cayana, 

 although he later regards them as not separable; he also adopts 

 Dr. Allen's cabinisii for the big dark colored macroura, apparently 

 overlooking the fact that Dr. Allen's bird, which "differs little in color 

 from pallescens," could hardly have the "crissum black." 



Von Ihring {Rcvista Museo Paulista. 1904. p. 448) recognizes Allen's 

 error in writing P. macroura and P. cabanisi and again renames the 

 former var. ijuarania. 



Key to the Species and Subspecies. 



Plicum gray sharply contrasted with the rest of the upper parts, 



melanogastra . 

 Pileum uniform with the upper parts or very nearly so. 



Size very small; wing 4.12 in.; throat cinnamon rufous, . minuta. 

 Size medium or large, wing o.oO-G.SO; throat vinaceous. 

 ferruginous above, 

 large, tail 11.30-12.70. 



tail strongly rufous below, black subtenninal bands strongly 

 (lofincNl. 



Ijill large colunibiana. 



bill small, mexicana. 



tail dull blackish brown below, black subtonninal bands not 



elearly defined, pallescens. 



small, tail 9,30, insulana. 



bay above. 



tail uniform dull bhick beneath, no trace of subtorminal bands. 



(•ris.sum gray cayana. 



(•rissMm black nigrocrissa. 



tail below with rusty on the outer wel)s at lca«?t. 



thighs gray, tail 10.r>() II meltUri. 



thighs bl:ick. tail 12 cauca. 




496 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



walnut brown above, tail uniform dull l^lack beneath. 



tail 15.10, crissum black, viacroura. 



tail 11.25. cris.sum gray, boliviana. 



Piaya melanogastra (Vieillot). 



Cuculus melanogaster Vieillot, Nov. Diet., ^'III, p. 236, 1823 ['Java,' loc. 



err. = South America]. 

 Piaya brachyptera Lesson, Traite, p. 140, 1831 [Caj'enne]. 

 Melias corallirhynchus Lesson, Rev. ZooL, 1840, p. 1 [Hab. ?]. 



Length of wing, 5.46 mches; tail, 8.85. 



Above ferruginous, tail and vnngs glossed with wine purple, entire 

 pileum, nape and eye region ashy gray, rectriees with white tips and 

 black subterminal bands, remiges Avith diLsk}- tips, throat and breast 

 cinnamon rufous, rest of under surface dull black; specimens examined 

 from Cayenne; Demarara; Napo River, Ecuador; Amazonia. 



The nomenclature of this species is considered under P. rutila. 



Piaya ratila (Illiger). 



Cuculus rutilus Illiger, Abhl. Berl. Akad. Wiss., 1812, p. 224 [Cayenne]. 

 Coccyzus 7nimitus Vieillot, Xov. Diet., VIII, p. 275, 1817 [Caj'enne]. 

 Macropus caixana Spix, Av. Bras., I, p. 54, 1824 [Brazil]. 

 Coccycua monachus Lesson, Traits, 1831, p. 142 [Cayenne]. 



Length of wing, 4.12; tail, 6.15. 



Above ferruginous chestnut, tail and wings glossed with wine purple, 

 rectriees with white tips and l)lack subterminal bai"s, remiges dusky 

 at their tips, throat, breast and cheeks cinnamon rufous, rest of under 

 parts gray, tinged vnih buff on abdomen and flanks. 



Specimeas examined from Panama, Colombia, Orinoco, Cayenne, 

 hea^lwaters Huallaga River, Guyaquil. 



This bird was first described by Bri.sson as Cuculus cayanensis minor, 

 and is entered by Linnieus and Gmelin as var. ,5 under Cuculus 

 cayanus. Gmelin also adds a description of a var. r, which from its 

 'capUe cinereo' must be Piaya melanogaster. 



Illiger (1812) regarded these as sexes of the same species ami gave 

 them the name Cuculus rutilus, while Spix (1824) did the same thing, 

 calling them Macropus caixana. The figure and description of his female 

 { = melanogaster) is defective in that he does not give the abdomen as 

 black; furthermore he showed by a query that he was not sure whether 

 this wa-s the same species as the smaller bird, therefore his name 

 must imquestionably be restricted to the latter. Illiger's name could 

 be allotted to either bird, but as the smaller one, var. «, stands first, and 

 as it was not subsoquently named minulus until after the name melano- 

 gaster was projxwod for var. r, I think riUilus .sliould be usetl for 

 'var. a,' currently known as Piaya minuta. 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 497 



Piaya cayana. 



Common characters. Above some shade of ferruginous, bay or 

 walnut brown, rectrices and remiges with more or less wine purple gloss, 

 tips of remiges dusky, rectric^ tipped with white with a subterminal 

 black bar above; central pair iLsually rust}' beneath, others varying 

 from rusty to black in the various races, the white tips always distinct, 

 the subterminal band present or absent, lower surface of body pale 

 gray, thighs sometimes and crissimi always darker, throat and breast 

 vinaceous cinnamon. 



The races vary in the color of the upper parts and of the lower side 

 of the tail, as well as in the color of the crissum; the latter, however, is 

 nr)t ahvj\3's coastant. There is also marked diiference in size, and in 

 the proportions of the bill. 



The extremes of coloration are seen in fresh specimens of /■*. Colum- 

 biana, nigricrissa and macroura, which on the upper surface are respec- 

 tively ferruginous, bay and walnut brown of Ridgway's Xomenclature 

 of Colors. 



The relationship of the other forms, so far as the color of the upper 

 parts is concerned, is shown below: 



P. c. Columbiana, ferruginous. 



P. c. mexicana, ferniginoiLs. 



P. c. pallescens, ferruginous, a trifle paler. 



P. c. insulana, ferruginous, a trifle darker. 



P. c. nigricrissa, bay. 



P. c. mehleri, chestnut tinge<l with bay. 



P. c. cayana, chestnut tinged with bay. 



P. c. cauccE, similar to the last but more ferruginous. 



P. c. macroura, walnut Ijrown. 



P. c. hnliviana, walnut brown. 



Piaya oayana oayana Linn. 



Cuculus coyaiuis Linnrniis. Syst. .\at., I, p. 170, 1760 [Caycnncl. 

 Cocq/ziis macrocercus \itillot, Nov. Diet., VIII, p. 27.5, 1817 [CayciiiR]. 

 Coccyetis cai/anenxi/i .Swainson. Cla-s-s. Ikls., II, p. .323, 1.S37 [CayeniH'l. 

 Pyrrhocorax (juintienfi.-< Cab.'inis and Hciiio, IV, p. S.5, 1SG2 [liritish Cuianaj. 



Ivcngth of wing, 5.65; tail. 11. 10. 



Above che-<tnut strongly tinge*! with bay, grayer on the head, wings 

 and tail glosse«l with wine purj)le. flanks smoke gray, cri.ssum mouse 

 gray, under side of rectrices dull black except for the white tips, no 

 trace of subterminal l)ands. 



Some birds have the crissum paler than othei*s. .Mr. Ilnrtert at one 

 time {Nov. ZooL, XI 11, j). 4.3) regarcknl this as a distinctive charac- 

 ter separating tlif l»inl of French Guiana from that ranging from 




498 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Dutcli Guiana through the Orinoco valley (P. c. guanensis), but later 

 (XIV, p. 35) he considei's the difference not constant, in which opinion 

 I heartily agree. 



Specimens examined from Guiatm — Cayenne, Annai, Surinam; 

 Venezuela — Maupa, Suapure, Lourde 1700 m. 



Piaya cayana oolumbiana (Cab). 



Pyrrhocorax columbianus Cabanis, Jour. f. Orn., 1862, p. 170 [Cartagena, 



Colombia]. 

 Pyrrhocorax mesurus Cabanis and Heine, Mus. Hein., IV, 1862, p. 83 [Bogota]. 



Length of vring, 5.65; tail, 11.85; length of culmen, 33 mm.; height, 

 12.5 mm. 



Above ferruginous, slightl}- paler on the head, tail and ends of wings, 

 with a gloss of vAne purple in certain lights, flanl-K and crissum as in 

 cayana; under side of retrices rusty, more or less minutely flecked or 

 watered vnth. black on the inner webs, broad, well-defined subterminal 

 black bands and white tips. 



This bird is indistinguishable from mexicana above, and differs below 

 only in the greater amount of black shading on the rectrices ; the greatest 

 difference is found in the much larger bill. Bogota specimens have a 

 still greater amount of black on the under side of the rectrices. 



Specimens examined from Colombia — Santa IMarta, Bonda, Bogota; 

 Venezuela — Cumanacoa, El Pilar. Valencia, Macuto, Santo Domingo, 

 2,000 m. 



Fiaya cayana inaalana Hellma>T. 



Piaya cayana insulana Hellmayr, Xov. Zool,, XIII, p. 40 [Trinidad]. 



Length of wing, 5.58; tail, 9.30. 



Above ferruginous with a slight chestnut tint, closer in color to 

 columhianiis and mexicanus than to cayana, tail rather darker with a 

 purplish glo.ss, thighs and crissum as in cayana. Under side of rectrices 

 dull black, the outermost one rusty on outer vane near the quill for 

 two-thirds of its length, the others largely rusty on the outer vane 

 except for a subterminal black area, some of them rusty, in certain 

 lights at least, on parts of the inner web, which helps to bring out an 

 obscure ill-defined subterminal band. 



Specimens examined from Trinidad. 



Piaya cayana mexicana (Swains.). 



CuculuH mexicanus Swainson, Pliilos. Mag., I, p. 410, 1S27 [Tableland of 

 Temascaltepec]. 



Length of wing, 5.90; tail, 12. G5. Length of culmen, 30 mm.; 

 height, 10 mm. 



Above ferruginous with wine purple relicctions on the tail and ends 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 499 



of the wings, below like colombiamis except that crLssum Is paler and 

 the rectrices are uniform rasty brown or pale ferrugihoas, except for 

 the subterminal black band and w^hite tips ; some of the feathers have 

 the black flecking near the base, but it is not apparent unless the tail 

 is fully spread. 



Specimens examined from Mexico — Esquinapa, ]Mazatlan, Juana- 

 catlan, Barranca, Ibarra, Calete, Tupila River, Arroj^o de Lemones. 



Piaya oajana mehleri (Bonap.). 



Piaya mehleri Bonaparte, Conspct. A\-iuni, I, p. 110, 1850 [Santa F6 de 



Bogota— loc. err. fide Sclater, P. Z. S., 1860, p. 285 = Cent. .Ajner.]. 

 Piaya thermophila Sclater, P. Z. S., 1859, p. 368 [Mexico and Guatemala]. 

 ? Cuculus ridibundus Gmelin, Sj'st. Nat.. I, p. 414, 1788 [Xew Spain]. 

 ? Cucu/us rubicurwius Stephens, Shaw's Gen. Zool., IX, p. 109, 1815 [5lexico]. 



Length of wing, 5.80; tail, 10.90. 



Above Uke cayana, below darker, crissum dull black, thighs dark 

 gray; under side of rectrices dull black, outermost feather usually 

 uniform, the others with the outer vane more or less rusty, except for 

 a subterminal black area. ^lexican birds average less rusty than those 

 from farther south. Occasional specimens have a slight watering of 

 rasty on some of the inner webs ; the subterminal band is never defined. 

 The coloration of the tail below is practically intermediate between 

 cayana and iiisulana. 



Mexican and Yucatan birds have the bill distinctly smaller than 

 those from Nicaragua and Panama. Mexican birds average larger than 

 those from the Central Anierican countries and Yucatan specimens 

 average smaller, but these differences do not seem sufficiently marked 

 to deserve recognition in nomenclature. 



SpecimeiLS examined from Mexico — San Tan, Jalapa, Tampico, 

 Tehuantepec, Tabasco, Vera Cruz, Orizaba, Potrero, Yucatan; Guate- 

 nuila; Honduras — Ceiba, Truxillo, San Ptnlro Sula, Yaruca, Segovia 

 River; Salvador; Nicaragua — Managua. Chimiudeza, Escondido ; Costo 

 Rica — San Jos<5, Guayabo, Pigres, Volcan de Irazu, Bonilla, Talamanca, 

 Sun Domingo de San Mateo; Panama — Boco del Toro, Chiriqui David, 

 H(Kiuote. 



Piaya cayana oauos lubsp. nov. 



I.«ngth of wing, 5.60; tail, 12. 



Above i)ay strongly tiMge<l with chestnut or tlull fcrruginoiis, wings 

 and tail with a wine puri)lo gloss. Below similar to nigracrissa, but the 

 thighs as well as the crissum are deep black and the lower part of the 

 al>doiii('ii, so that this color encroacii(>s upon tiip gray area more than in 

 any other race; imdcr side of rectrices almost exactly a.s in itisiilnua, 




500 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



the rust}' tint being mainly restricted to the outer vanes of the feathers 

 and the black subterminal bands scarcely perceptible. 



This race is the brightest of the 'bay-backed ' series and approaches 

 ifisulana, the dullest of the 'ferruginous-backed' series, in the color of 

 the upper parts. 



Type No. 71,581, Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist. Rio Cauca, Colombia, 

 May 27, 1898. c?. J. H. Batty. Wing, 5.55 ins.; tail, 12.10 ins. 



Fiaya oayana nigricrissa (Sclater). 



Piaya nigricrissa Sclater, P. Z. S., 1860, p. 285 and 297 [New Grenada and 

 Peru]. 



Length of wing, 5.45; tail, 10.20. 



Above bay with a strong wine purple gloss on wings and tail, thighs 

 dark gray, crissum blacker, less sooty than in mehleri; under side of 

 rectrices as in caijona, uniform dull black with the exception of the 

 white tips. 



Specimeas examined from Colombia — Bogota ; Ecuador — Napo River, 

 Archidona, Guayaquil; Peru — ^headwaters of the Huallaga River, 

 Pebas. 



Piaya cayana pallescens (Cab. and Heine). 



Pyrrhocorax pallescens Cabanis and Heine, Mus. Hein., IV,'p. 86, 1862 [North 



Brazil]. 

 Pini/a cciyarui cabanisi .AJlen Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., Y, p. 136, 1893 



[Chapada, Matta Grosso, Brazil]. 



Length of wing, 5.95; tail, 11.75. 



Upper parts similar to columbiana but paler, the bright ferruginous 

 modified by a tone of ochre; crissum and thighs paler than in colom- 

 biana, and abdomen paler than in any other race, under side of rectrices 

 nearly uniform rusty brown except for the white tips; the pale rusty 

 tint asually pervades the whole dark area instead of forming definite 

 patches, in some lights, however, the dasky subterminal bands are 

 clearly discernible. 



I have studied Dr. Allen's series of cabanisi from Chapada, Matto 

 Grosso, and cannot finfl sufficient difference between thom and birds 

 from more northern Brazilian localities to warrant separation from 

 pallescens. Five specimens of the latter give average length of wing 

 5.90 and tail 11.30, while ton Matto Grosso birds give wing G, tail 12. 

 These differences are less than those shown by series of mehleri from 

 diflfercnt parts of its range and since, as Dr. Allen admits, there are 

 practically no color differences, there seems to be no ground for recog- 

 nizing cabanisi as distinct. 



Dr. Allen was mislo<i by the general recognition accorded to the more 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 501 



southern nuicroura, to which he thought his bird must be referred, and 

 which he thought required a new name. 



Specimens examined from Chapada, Matto Grosso, Corumba, Matto 

 Grosso, Bahia, Para and Rio Janeiro. 



The Para specimen approaches cayana, while those from Rio Janeiro 

 are darker, showing a possible tendency toward macroura. 



Fiaya cayana macroura (Gambel). 



Piaya macroura Ganibel, Journ. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 1S49, p. 215 ['Suri- 

 nam' loc. err. fide Cabanis and Heine, Mus. Hein., l\, p. 87 = Paraguay]. 



Piaya circe Bonaparte, Consp. A^^um, I, p. 110, 1S50 ['Colombia,' loc. 

 err. fide Cabanis and Heine = Paraguaj-]. 



P. c. var. guaurania von Ihring, Rev. Mus. Paulista, 1904, 448 [S. Brazil]. 



Ijcngth of wing, 6.75; tail, 15.10. 



Above walnut brown sometimes tinged with burnt umber, wings 

 tinged with chestnut and tail with bay, slightly glossal with wine 

 purple, head distinctly gray; thighs dark gray, crissum nearly black; 

 underside of rectrices dull black excepting the white tips, no trace of a 

 subterminal band. 



Specimens examined from Paraguay; Brazil — Rio Grande do Sul. 



Piaya cayana boliviana subsp. nov. 



Length of wing, 5.85; tail, 11.50. 



Above walnut brown, ^\nngs and rump tinged with chestnut, tail 

 tinge<l with bay, both glossed with wine purple; flanks dark gray, 

 crissum slightly darker; under side of rectrices dull black with tips 

 white, no trace of a subtenninal band. 



This race is exactly like macroura except for the gray crissum and 

 much smaller size. 



Type No. 30,S50, Amer. Mils. Nat. Hist. Yungas, Bolivia. Dr. 

 H. H. RiLsby. 6,000 ft. 1SS5. Wing, 5.90; tail, 11.60. 



Specimens examine<l from Bolivia — Yungas, La Paz; Peru — Inca 

 Mine. 




502 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [N'OV., 



November 3. 

 Arthur Erwin BRO^^^", Sc.D., Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-five persons present. 

 The Committee on the Hayden Memorial Award reported as follows : 



The Comauttee on the Hayden Memorial Geological Award 

 reports in favor of conferring the medal this year on John Mason 

 Clarke, State Geologist of New York, in recognition of the value of 

 his work in geology and especially of his memoir, Early Devonic His- 

 tory of New York and Eastern North America. In the opinion of the 

 Committee he ranks Avith the others who have received the recog- 

 nition. 



(Signed) Henry Fairfield Osborn, 



R. A. F. Penrose, Jr., 

 Amos P. Brown, 

 Frederick Prime, 

 Samuel G. Dixon, 



Committee. 



John Mason Clarke was born at Canandaigua, N. Y., April 15, 

 1857. His early education was received in the Canandaigua Academy, 

 of which his father was principal. In 1877 he graduated from Amlieret 

 College and studied in the Univei-sity of Gottingen from 1882 to 1884. 

 For a period he taught at the Canandaigua Academy and the Utica 

 Academy and in 1879 was instructor in geology at Amherst. From 

 1880 to 1882 he was professor of geology and zoology at Smith College, 

 and in 1885 lecturer on geology at tlie Massachusetts Agricultural 

 College. In 1886 he was appointed assistant in paleontology under 

 Prof. James Hall, State geologist of New York; in 1892 assistant State 

 geologist and paleontologist; in 1898 State paleontologist; in 1904 

 State gcologi-st and paleontologist, director of the State Museum and 

 the Science division of the Education department; in 1894 he was made 

 professor of geology and mineralogy in the Rensselaer Polj'teclmic 

 Institute. In 1908 the Iroquois Nation received him into their mem- 

 bership as kejcper of their historic archives with the ancient title of this 

 office. His scientific publications, chiefly on geology and paleontology, 

 and extending over a period ol thirty yeai-s, are somewhat voluminous, 

 and, though largely relating to the State of New York, include also 

 parts of Canada, Maine, South .\morira and Germany. His most com- 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 503 



prehensive treatises are The North American Devonian Crustacea (1888), 

 Introduction to the Study of the Genera of the Paleozoic Brachiopoda 

 (1892 and 1894), and The Paleozoic Reticulate Sponges (1898). all pub- 

 lished in titular conjunction with James Hall ; The Naples Fauna (1899 

 and 1904), The Early Devonic of New York and Eastern North America 

 (1908). In addition to numerous other papers on problems in geology 

 he has also written on ceramics. 



He received the degrees of AM. and Ph.D. (honoris causa) from the 

 University of Marburg in 1898; LL.D. from Amherst, 1902. 



November 17. 

 The President, Dr. Samuel G. Dixon, in the Chair, 



Thirty-nine persorLS present. 



The Chair announced the death of Alfred AMiclcn, November 18, 1907; 

 William Potts, July 29, 1908, membei-s, and of William K. Brooks, a 

 correspondent, November 12, 1908. 



In association with the Biological and .Microscopical Section, Mb. 

 Charles S. Boyer made a conunvuiication on the synonymy and 

 rclatioaships of Surirella and described a new species of diatom from 

 the miocene deposits of Barbadocs, for which he proposed the name 

 Cymatopleura Shulzi. 



Dr. Thomas S. Stewart spoke of the Ijacillus of syphilis and sug- 

 gested methods of staining. 



Mr. Frank J. Keelev exhibited slides illustrating secondary 

 crystallization of early limestone and showing the Brownian motion of 

 smoke particle.s on dark-ground illvnnination. 



Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry spoke of the geographical distribution of 

 Strohilops. 



The following papei-s on the report of the Publication Committee 

 were accepted for i)ublication: 



"(Jn the Cicindoiiiia' of Angola." By F. Creighton Wcllman, M.D., 

 and Walther Horn, M.D. (September 2G). 



"Remarks r)n Prof. Chaml)orliii's Kovision of North American 

 Lycosidii'." By Thomas H. Montgomery (Octoi)or 27). 



Sydney L. Wright, Jr., was elected a member. 



The following were ordcrc*! to be printed : 




504 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Xov., 



ON THE CICINDELIN^ OF ANGOLA. 

 BY F. CREIGHTOX WELLMAX, M.D., F.E.S., AXD WALTHER HORN, M.D. 



Very little has been known until now about the Cicindelinai of Angola. 

 Most of the species described are represented by uniques or a few 

 specimens, excepting, of course, those occurring in other parts of Africa. 

 The discovery of the "tj^jical" Angolan forms is almost entirely con- 

 nected with the names of four collectors, namely: Friodi-ich Wel- 

 witsch, the distinguished Austrian botanist who collected for the 

 Museum of Lisbon; A. v. Hohmeyer and Dr. P. Pogge, whose collec- 

 tions now belong to the Royal Zoological Museum of Berlin, and 

 Major von Mechow, whose specimens are at present in the collection 

 of R^ne Oberthiir. These last were described by Quedenfeldt. Sr., 

 Harold worked up the material for the Berlin Museum, and Putzeys 

 published concerning the Portuguese collections. 



Beyond these only a few species, mostly based on single specimens 

 and some without exact localities, have from time to time been sent 

 to Europe, most of them described by one of the authors of the present 

 paper (W. H.). 



While not less than six genera in thirty-five species^ are known 

 from this so highly interesting part of Africa, yet this is the fii*st time 

 that large material with exact bionomical notes has become available 

 — material which permits of a distinct advance in our knowledge of 

 this interesting family. It seems, therefore, a suitable opportunity to 

 present our notes on the iiabits and relations of the species occurring 

 in Angola, and we have made the list complete by including the species 

 reported by other observers as well as ourselves. One veiy peculiar 

 and interesting new form is described. 



In taking up a faiuiistic study of this kind it is always interesting 

 to note the general features of the climate, soil and flora of the region 

 discu.<<se<l, as these must always have a bearing on the iiabits and dis- 

 tribution of its animal life. For the j)urposas of this paper our district 

 may be divided into three regioas: lowlands, mountainous slopes, and 



' Twenty species of these were taken in Angola by one of us (F. C. W.) during 

 1906-08. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 505 



plateau. The first of these extends from the sea to a point 30 to 100 

 miles inland, according to the configuration of the country, and its most 

 typical plant may l)e said to be the cocoanut palm, which will grow 

 wherever moisture enough' is obtainable. The soil is over parts of 

 this belt strongly calcareous, being of recent geological formation, 

 abounding in various fossils such as ammonites and trilobites. Other 

 parts are the result of silt being carried down by erosion of the older 

 interior mountains. The rainfall in this part is very scanty, as the 

 storms come from the east and are interceptetl by the highlands and 

 mountains, only the heaviest and most general rains for a small portion 

 of the year reaching the lowlands to the w&st. The vegetation is in 

 consequence sparse, consisting of a few shrubs and thorny or fleshy 

 trees. The grass grows in little discrete clumps and dries up and almost 

 disappears during the greater part of the j^ear. In this region only 

 five species of Cicindelina) were encountered : Cicindela breincollis 

 intermedia Klug, C. melancholica F., C. nitidula Dej., C. cabinda Bat. 

 and Eurijmorpha cyanipes mouffleti Fairm., the last three of which 

 occur on tiie seashore. 



The second region may be said to extend inland from the first region 

 to a point marked l)y the limits of the occurrence of the baobab tree 

 (Adarisonifi digilata). The basis of this is a vast primary system, 

 consisting of various metamorphic rocks, chiefly granite and sandstone. 

 The soil is a sandy loam alternating with red clays. Of course, there 

 is a great mi.xturc of soils in the l(jwer levels and valleys of this region. 

 Huge granite mountaias and boulders abound. The vegetation is 

 very dense in canons and valleys and along rivers; and in the rainy 

 season the grass is often long, coai-se and dense, forming a sort of jungle. 

 Many large trees (Anonaceae, Anacardaceffi, GuttifereB, etc.) abound 

 in the jungles near streams. The most inland valleys of this region 

 have a flora apjH-oaching that of the highland region 3-et to be described, 

 and it was here that most of tiie species discussed in this paper were 

 taken, our specimens inchiding Cicimlchi Mcchowi Qued., C. lutnria 

 W. Horn, C. saralUnsis Gu6r., C. uncivitlala Qued., C. infuscata Quetl., 

 C. PiUzeysi W. Horn, C. angusticollis Boh., C. villosa Putz., C. flavi- 

 pes Putz., C. Wcllmdni W. Horn. C. retirostain n. sj)., Odontochila 

 erythropyga Putz., Cosmcma Wellnuitii \\ . Horn, C. margiticpunc- 

 UUa W. Horn, C. auropunctata Qued., etc. The climate of this region 

 is iriterincMJijito between that of the foregoing and that of the region 

 about to be describe*!, i)eing cooler and moister than the lowlands, 

 without equalling in these respects the highlands. 



The third region is the high plateau forming the "Bih^ and parts of 




506 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



the Bailundo and Andulo countries. This is part of the alpine region 

 of Africa, and is to be classed with Abyssinia, Ruenzori and the Nyassa- 

 Tanganyika highlands. The soils are about as in the middle region and 

 the country is, geologically speakings very old, being entirely under- 

 laid with archaean raetamoiphic rocks. The grass is comparatively 

 short and thickly set together, quite covering the ground. The bulk 

 of the trees are LeguminosjE and are as a rule not large, forming what 

 is known as "bush." One of the Rosacea? (Paranorium mohola) is 

 the largest and most striking tree. !Many Malvaceae and Ampelidae 

 add to the smaller aspects of the landscape. The climate is moist and 

 cool and is essentially subtropical and not tropical. The species found 

 in the center of this last region are Cicindela suturalis Putz., C. Mcchowi 

 Qued., Ophryodera rufomarginata Boh., and Maniichora congoensis" 

 P6r, At the western border of this region, almost at a point where it 

 joins the second region {vide supra) were taken several other species, 

 namely: Cicindela angusticollis Boh., C. uncivittata Qued., C.infuscata 

 Qued., C. Pidzeysi W. Horn, C. flai'ipes Putz., C villosa Putz. and 

 Cosmema auropunctala Qued. 



Following is a list of all recorded species^ from Angola, including 

 our own material, much of which is here reported for the first time, 

 together with our notes on the habits of the beetles and the description 

 of a new species. 



CICIXDEI.IX.E. 

 CICINDELINI. 

 Odontochilina. 

 1. Odontochila erythropyga Putz., Jorn. Sci. Lisb., 1880, p. 24. 

 = variventris Qued., lierl. Eiit. Zc-it.sc-lir., 1SS3, p. 24.5. 



Without exact locaUty (Welwitsch);.Malange (Mechow);.Ekekete 

 Mountain, two hours south of Ekuiva River, November, 1907 (Wellman). 

 The specimeas were taken in thin gra.ss near a large swarm of Meloid 

 beetles {Lytta amdhystirui) whicli at some distance tlicy distinctly re- 

 sembled. 



Ciclndelina. 



2 Cicindela aulioa Uej.. .Sr>ec. V, 1S3I. p. I'.V). 



Without exact locality (Welwitsch). An intermediate form between 

 the typical atdica and the .subsp. polysila Gu6r. occulta in Loanda. 



3 Cicindela aapernla Duf.. Ann. Sc. Phyii.. VIII. 1H21, p. 3.50. pi. 130, f. 1. 

 Kuango (.Mechow). 



* All the material collected by WcUman ia in VV, Horn's collection, where alao 

 all the other spccica arc represented, except Cicindela leucopicla (iued. 



I 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 507 



4. Cioindela nitidala Dej.. Spec I, 1825, p. 120. 



f^ .^Without exact locality (Welwitsch); Landana, Loango (U. ]More); 

 Lobito Bay, April. 190S (Wellman). Taken on the beach (that part 

 which i.s kept more or less wet by the tides), and by its coloring the 

 beetle is rendered inconspicuous as it sits on the sand, and is usually 

 noticeable only when flying. 



5. Cioindela cabinda Bat.. Cist. Ent. II. 1878, p. 331. 



Landana. Loango (U. More); Lobito Bay, April, 190S (Wellman). 

 Habits exactly like C. nitidvla, with which it was found in company. 



6. Cioindela brevioollis clathrata^ Dej.. Spec. I. 1825, p. 115. 



Mossaraedes. 



brevicollis negleda* Dej., Spec. I, 1S25, p. 114. 

 Malange (Mechow); without exact locahty (Welwitsch). There 

 occurs near Mossamedes an intermediate form between this last and the 

 var. damara P6r. 



brcricollis discoidalis Dej., Spec. I, 1825, p. 114. 



Kuango. 



hrevicollis irUermfdia Ivlug, Monatschr. Berl. Acad., 1853, p. 245. 

 Quanza (Homeyer), Loanda. 



7. Cioindela unoivittata' Qued.. Berl. Ent. Zeitschr., 1883. p. 242. 



Malange (Mechow);.. north bank of Ekuiva River, November, 1907 

 (Wellman). Found on the path, dark soil. 



exigun* Kolbo, Ent. Xachr., 1885, p. 50. 

 Soutii bank of Ekuiva River, November, 1907 (Wellman), clayey 

 soil. 



8. Cioindela obtasidentata Putc. Jom. Sci. Liab.. 1880, p. 22. 



liormjri Cli.i. in lilt.. Cat. CV)11. Cic, p. 28. 



Without exact locality (Welwitsch). 



0. Cioindela wellmani W. H<ini. Doutitch. Ent. Zeitwsbr., igo7. p. 421. 



Chiyaka, Novcmi)er, l'K)0, and November, 190S (Wellman). In 

 patiis or on other bare places, clayey soil, on which the coloring of the 

 beetle makes it hard to see. Very ant-like in its movements. 



* Ptitzr^'s iravp to this wtibuporics (and some Bperimcns of the following) tin 



\vr<)nn iiaiiir Ciritulrln Kituijnlrnxis, cf. Jnrn. Sri. Li.sli., IH-SO, p. 21. 



* I'lltZryH tltolinlil {\n>* to he Cirimlilil jnidiru Holi , i\ .lorn .'<ri, Lutb. I.e. 



* ThiH ill tlic hlackJHli fonn. 



* This i(t the l)r(>\viiiah form. 




508 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



10 Cicindela mechowi' Que<l., Bed. Ent. Zeitschr., 1S83, p. 248, pi. 3, f. 3. 



Malange (Mechow), Huilla (Wehvitsch), Kakonda, Duque de Bra- 

 gan^a, Bih(5, Chiyaka, Ekuiva Ri^•er (Wellman). Several forms 

 occur, with and without white sutural stripe, both brownish and green. 

 These beetles appeared to be very scarce until a large artificial bare 

 place was prepared, when mechowi and several other species appeared 

 in great numbers. The brownish form usually appeal's on clayey soil. 

 When alive they have a strong verbena-like smell. They are strong 

 flyers and very pugnacious. A specimen kept over night in a cage 

 with some other beetles was found next morning chewing the thorax 

 of a Meloid beetle {Elctica ruja F.). 



11. Cicindela gxandis W. Horn, Ent. Nachr., 1897, p. 240. 



Without exact locaUty, one single 9 . 



12. Cicindela prodotiformis W. Horn, Deutsch. Ent. Zeitschr., 1892, p. 88; 1894, pi. 3, f. 7. 



Without exact locality, one single ? . 



13. Cicindela leucopicta Quad., Berl. Ent. Zeitschr., 1888, p. 157. 



Lunda kingdom (between Kuango and Loango), 1 $ (Mueller), 

 10, IX, 1884, on open places of the savannas. 



14. Cicindela interrnpta Fabr., Syst. Ent., 1775, p. 225. 



graphica Bat., Cist. Ent., II, 1878, p. 330. 



Kuango (Mechow); without exact locality (Rogers); common. 



15. Cicindela saraliensis Gudr., R^v. Zool., 1849, p. 80. 



iiammulata Qued., Berl. Ent. Zeitschr., 1883, p. 241, pi. 3, f. 1. 



This last is nothing but a form with more yellow spots on the elytra. 

 Malange (Mechow); Chiyaka, Mt. Elende, November, 1906; Ekuiva 

 River, November, 1907 (Wellman). Our specimens are the iiammu- 

 lata form, and were found on dark soil. The beetle does not fly, and 

 is often found in the edge of woods near certain Cosmemce, but not with 

 them. On one occasion a living specimen was taken with an ant 

 (Pheidole pundulata Mayr.) hanging to its leg. 



16. Cicindela angusticollis B<.h., Ins. Cafifr., I, 1848, p. 15. 



Mf>ssamcdcs, Chiyaka, November, 1906; PJkuiva River, November, 

 1907 (Wellman). Does not fly, a very rapid runner; common. 



17. Cicindela maaia Har., Mittheil. MUnch. Ent. Ver., 1878, p. 99. 



Malange (Mechow); interior (po.ssibly Congo Free State), without 

 exact locality (Pogge). 



' Cicindela lugnbris Putz., Jorn. Sci. Liab., ISSO, p. 22, is the true C. mechowi. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 509 



18. Cioindela (Ophryodera) rufomarginata' bohemani P4t., .\nn. Mag. Nat. Hi?t., 1888, 



Huilla. Tliere aL?o occur individuals with less broadly confluent 

 pattern. 



rufomarginata poggei Har., Mittheil. Munch. Ent. A'er., 1878, p. 99" Col. 

 Hefte, 1879, p. 11, pi. 1, f. 1. 



Interior (perhaps Congo Free State) without exact locality (Pogge). 



rufomarginata distanti Heath, Entomol., 1905, p. 97. 



Duque de Bragan^a, Bih^. Kuango (Mechow). Lunda (Buchner), 

 Chipeyo, November 18, 1906 (Wellman). Found on white sand. 

 Flies rather hea\'ily. 



rufomarginata richteri* W. Horn, Deutsch. Ent. Zeitschr., 1892. p. 72' 1894 

 pi. 3, f. 9; 1906, pi. 1, f. 16. , , i- , , 



Malange (Mechow). 



19. Cicindela reticostata nov. spec. 



Cicindelee quadricostatcc W. Horn 9 affinis, differt statura 

 minore; labro medio non producto, parte centrah dentes 3 

 ferente a lobis lateralibus incisura majore separata; prothoracis 

 parte media globosiore, lateribus ad strangulationem ba.salem 

 magis cur\^atis (ita ut pars basalis distinctior appareat), disco 

 sulcum basalem versus evidenter magis declivi, superficie sequa- 

 liter grosse sed irregularius rugata atraque: elytris fere parallelis, 

 solummodo in medio lovLssime ampliatLs, humeris latioribus quam 

 in ilia specie, apice (conjunctim) brevius rotundato, signatura nulla, 

 sculptura a^qualiter subtili, sal punctis reticularibus fere ubique variis 

 in directionibas (aut trans vei-saliter, aut longitudinaliter, aut oblique 

 aut in lineLs distincte curvatis) confluentibus : rugis hoc modo formatis 

 non ([uam cetera sculptura grossioribus ; "striis" 2 vix elevatis basi 

 incipientibus fere longitudinaliljas (perparum suturam versus postice 

 vergeotibus) indistinctis in utroque elytro visibilibus (irregularius 

 confluentcr quam partibus adjacentibus sculpti.'^). altera prope suturam 

 ultra medium, altera in di.sco centrali fere ad malium ducta, postice 

 sensim evanescentibus ; 3" etiam leviore indistinctioreque in disco 

 latorali ante me<lium omnino disparente solumnKRlo visu obliquo 

 percipicnda; depres.sionibus ("sulcis," ut ita dicam) inter has 3 

 "strias" (quae vix costula? possunt nominari) et spatio juxtasuturali 

 modice cuprascentibus ; antennis non foliaceis, articulis 5°-8° solum- 



• () phriiodern rufomarginata, aa recorded by Putzeys, consists of the subspecies 

 bohenuini and diManti, cl. .lorn. Sri. Lisb., ISSO, p. 'j.'i. 



• Recorded by Quedenfeldt as O. rufomarginata, rid. Bert. Ent. Zeitschr.. 1883 

 p. 247. 



33 




510 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



mcKlo paullo dilatatis; palpis (articiilo ultimo nigro) flavis; capite 

 elytrisque nigricantibus opacis, vix hinc inde perparum senescentibus ; 

 corpore subtus modice nitent-e nigricante;..genis anticis, meta-episternis 

 cum parte adjacente metasterni, elytrorum epipleuris cyanescentibus ; 

 pedibus, coxis, trochanteribus nigricantibus, hinc inde perparum 

 viridi aut aeneo-variegatis ; totis pectoris partibus (metasterni parte 

 discoidali et postico-centrali nuda), abdominis et coxarum posticarum 

 lateribus late rrtodice dense breviter pilosis; fronte nuda. solummodo 

 prope antennarum insertionem setis 2 ornatis, pronoto in speciiTiine 

 unico nudo (semper?); 2 primis antennarum articulis nudis, 3° et 4° 

 supra breviter modice sparsim setosis. Long. 17 mm. (sine labro). 



A single & from the Enyalanganja or great plains, 3 hours south of 

 the Ekuiva River, November, 1907 (Wellman). 



It is one of the most peculiar species of the whole genus, belonging 

 to the interesting laeta-quadristriata group, reported only from the 

 tropica of Africa. The labrum is black with a testaceous patch in the 

 middle, the 3 middle teeth are just a little less prominent than the 

 lateral tooth. Front and pronotum are roughly and deeply wrinkled. 

 The sutural angle of the elytra is rectangular without a developed 

 spine. All tarei, as in Cicindela quadristriata, sulcated. The 1st, 3d 

 and 4th articles of the antennae are on their upper part slightly carinate. 



The size, color and sculpture of this species, and especially its move- 

 ments, lend it when alive the appearance of a Carabid. It did not 

 attempt to fly when pursued, although it was in bright sunshine. 



20. Cicindela villosa Putz., Jorn. Sci. Lisb., 1880, p. 22. 



= scmicuprea Qued., Berl. Ent. Zeitschr., 1883, p. 244. 



Malange (Mechow); Huilla (Lobo d'Avila); Chipeyo, November, 

 1906; Chiyaka, Ekuiva River, November, 1907 (Wellman). Taken 

 on dark soil, often in short grass. It has a good cryptic coloring and 

 is hard to see. 



21. Cicindela flavipes Putz., Jorn. .Sci. Lisb., 1880, p. 23. 



= nubifera Qucd., lierl. Ent. Zeitschr., 1883, p. L'13, j)!. 3, f. 2. 



Malange (Mechow); Duque de Bragan^a; Chipeyo, November, 1906; 

 Chiyaka, Ekuiva River, Kasenya Mines, November, 1907 (Wclhnan). 

 This species occurs almost entirely on feklspathic soil, against which 

 its indistinct light-colored markings make it almost impo.ssible to see, 

 except when it is in motion. It was only taken once or twice on red 

 or dark soil, but one could count on finding it in abundance as soon 

 as a bit of whitish soil rich in kaolin was rcachetl. 



22 Cicindela saturalii Putc. Jorn. Sci. Linb., 1880, p. '25. 



Huilla (Lobo d'Avila), liihd, December, 1906 (Wclliu.'in). Taken 

 in short gra.ss, after most Cicindeliduj had disappeared. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 511 



23 Cicindela Putzeysi W. Horn, Deutsch. Ent. Zeitschr., 1900, p. 207. 



Kakonda; Chiyaka, November, 1906; Ekuiva River, 1907 (Well- 

 man), This reddish species almost always occurred on clayey soil, 

 and usually together with C. mechom (inde supra) In Chiyaka it 

 was taken on the artificial bare place made for the purpose of attract- 

 ing Cicindelidae. A peculiar point noted is that this beetle jumps 

 and flies like a small grasshopper which is always found with it. On 

 one occasion a large Asilid fly was observed to catch a specimen of C. 

 putzeysi. 



24. Cicindela infuscata Qued., Berl. Ent. Zeitschr., 1883, p. 24.5. 



Malange (Mechow); Chipeyo, November, 1906; Chiyaka, Ekuiva 

 River, November, 1907 (Wellman). Three forms occur: copperj-, 

 green and blackish. It was noted that the coppery form occurred in 

 the valleys on clayey soil, together with Cicindela mechowi and C. 

 putzeysi, while the green form was taken on the mountain sides among 

 moss, etc., in company with Odontochila erythropyga (vide supra). 



25. Cicindela melancholica Fabr., Ent. Syst., Suppl., 1798, p. 63. 



Malange (Mechow); Chincoxo, without exact locality (Welwitsch) ; 

 Loanda (Hohmeyer); Benguella, edges of city, April, 190S (Well- 

 man). This species was taken on mud from partially dricd-up pools; 

 very common. In the same places (on the dry sand around the pools) 

 occurred great numbers of a Carabid beetle (Graphipterus sp.). 



26. Cicindela vicina Dej., Spec. V, 1831, p. 244. 

 Without exact locality (Welwitsch). 



27. Cicindela lutaria Ou(?r.. llev. Mag. Zool., 1849, p. 118; Mag. Zool., 1845, pi. 16I.fig9. 5,8. 



p]kuiva River, November, 1907 (Wellman). This species was found 

 at the edge of the river, in a place which had been previously over- 

 flowed. The habits seem to be identical witli those of Cicindela 

 melancholica. 



28. Cicindela octoguttata F;il)r , Mant., 1.1787, p. 187. 



29. Eurymorpha cyanipes mouffleti Fairm., Ann Soc. Fr.. 1856. p. 95. 



Cape Negro, Mossamedcs. 



Dromicina. 

 :H) Di-omica tricostata W. Horn, Ent. Nachr., 1897, p. 237. 



Without exact locality; a single ^ . 

 31 Dromioa (Coimema) auropanotata Qii(«l , HcH. Ent. Zeititclir, 1883, p. 249, pi. 3, f. 4. 



.Mahuigc (Mccjiow); Chiyaka, Cliipcyo, November, 1006 (Wcllinan). 

 This species may be found in rather thick busji, and when pui"sued will 

 hide under dry leaves like ants, which insects it great!}' resembles in 

 it3 movements. 




512 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Xov., 



32. Dromioa (Cosmema) marginepunctata W. Horn, Notes Leyd. Mus., 1908, p. 32. 



Chij'aka, Ekuiva Rivei", November, 1907 (Wellman). Is even more 

 shacle-lo\ang than the preceding (which is often found in the open) 

 and occurs in enormous numbers in the bush. Its habits are hke 

 anropundafa. 



33. Dromioa (Cosmema) wellmani W. Horn, Notes Leyd. Mus., 1908, p. 31. 



Ciyaka, Ekuiva River, November, 1907 (Welhnan). Habits just 

 Hke the preceding species, which it so closely resembles that it is impos- 

 sible to distinguish them in the field and in company with which it 

 usually occurs, 



MEGACEPHALINI. 

 Megacephalina. 



34. Megacephala regalis Boh. Ins. Ca£fr., I, 1848, p. 2. 



Cuis.^^auge, 1 d* ; near Impulu River, November, 1899, 1 c?. Both 

 of more elongate elytra than the typical form. 



MANTICHORINI. 



35. Mantiohora congoensis P(5r., Ann. Nat. Hist., 1888, p. 219. 



= Liviivjslonci Har., Col. Hefte, 16, 1S79, p. 9. 



Bih6; interior without exact locality, possibly Congo Free State 

 (Pogge). 



In conclusion : there are still two species of Cicindela known in tropi- 

 cal Africa, and very common to the north, east and south of Angola, which 

 almost surely occur in Angola it.self , although not yet found there, namely, 

 Cicindela nilotica Dej. and C. dongalensis imperatrix Srnka. It is also 

 probable that the common Cicindela regalis Dej., which is widespread 

 in the regions to the north, cast and southeast of the district here dis- 

 cussed, will be one day reported from Angola. Cicindela cincta Fabr., 

 the common species reported from the mouth of the Senegal to Bahr- 

 al-Ghazal and the Kassai, may likewise touch the boundaries of Angola 

 Fomewhere. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 513 



REMAEKS ON PEOF. CHAMBERLINS REVISION OF NOETH AMERICAN 



LYC0SID5:. 



BY THOMAS H. MONTGOMERY, JR. 



In Part II of Volume LX of the Proceedings of the Academy of Nat- 

 ural Sciences of Philadelphia, 1908, Prof. R. V. Cliamberlin has a 

 memoir entitled a " Revision of North American Spiders of the Family 

 Lycosidse." This paper is one of decided importance in introducing 

 generic characters based upon the structure of the copulatory organs, 

 and in presenting detailed descriptions of the species. But it is only 

 fair to my antecedent studies on the same group that I should make 

 certain brief criticisms, lest later students might consider Prof. Cham- 

 berlin's paper as finally conclusive and authoritative. 



In my "Dascription of North American Aranese of the Families 

 Lycosidaj and Pisaurida?" {Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1904) I recog- 

 nized among other valid species twenty that had been described and 

 named by me, whereby I relegated to the synonymy certain few species 

 that I liad (lescrilje<l a.s new in two preceding paj)ei-s. Of these twenty 

 species of which I am the author Prof. Chamberlin regards only two 

 worthy of recognition under the names I had given them, to whicli 

 treatment I would enter the following partial criticism: 



(1) Prof. Chamberlin fails to mention at all two of my species, 

 Ljfcosa mccooki and Trochosa contestata. 



(2) He places my Trochosa noctuabunda as a questionable synonym 

 of his Allocosa degesta; but if these species are identical my name 

 should have the priority. 



(3) He makes my Lycosa anielucana a synonym of L. apicata Banks; 

 but my description was published in March, and that of Banks not until 

 June, 1901, hence the name antelucana ha.s the jiriority. 



(4) He entei-s five of my specie-s as synonyms of four of those of 

 Hentz, by resiLscitating Hentz's Lycosa saltatrix, fativcra, milvina and 

 funerea. For each of the fii"st two of these s|)ecies Hentz gave a four- 

 line description, for milviua a five-line, and for fumrai only three lines, 

 and his figures are lacking in all necessary details. In 1904 I had 

 written: "At the present time it is practically impos.sibIe to identify 

 most of the species of Walckenaer, Hiackwall, Hentz and some others. 




">I4 PROCEEDIN'GS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



because some of their species are so insufficiently described that a 

 particular description applies equally well to a number of species." 

 Thus Prof. Chambcrlin makes, it seems to me, and I take no unusual 

 stand, a grave mistake in resuscitating these and certain other names 

 of Hentz, for the descriptions are practically valueless, the figures in 

 many cases of little more importance, and nothing but uncertainty is to 

 be gained by replacing names based upon detailed descriptions with 

 ones founded upon inadequate diagnoses unsupported by type speci- 

 mens. Then Prof. Chamberlin places my Lycosa relxLcens and L. 

 charonoides as synonyms"" of saltatrix Hentz, though these species of 

 mine differ in important structural characters ; and similarly he classes 

 my Pardosa scita, that is clearly separable from P. nigropalpis Emerton, 

 with the latter as synonyms of Lycosa milvina Hentz. 



(5) Prof. Chamberlin subjugates my Pardosa mercurialis to lapi- 

 diana Emerton, though these differ in proportion of the legs and in 

 the genital armature. Then he places my Geolycosa texana under 

 Lycosa carolinensis Hentz, though these exhibit a marked difference 

 in the eyes of the anterior row. Further, he brings my Lycosa euepigy- 

 nata, L. insopita and Trochosa purcelli all under Lycosa guLosa 

 Walckenaer, though Walckenaer in his brief seven-line description states 

 only the color and a few details concerning the eyes, and though I 

 had shown that Lycosa insopita "comes closest to L. euepigynata, 

 but differs from it in slightly shorter relative length of the legs, in 

 greater relative width of the cephalothorax (in insopita less than one- 

 quarter longer than broad, in euepigynata decidedly more than one- 

 quarter), in the dark coloration of the venter, and in the structure of 

 the genitalia. It differs also from L. purcelli, the epigynum of which 

 is very similar, in the slightly greater relative length of the legs, in 

 greater size, and markedly in the coloration." 



(6) Prof. Chambcrlin has also witlidrawn Geolycosa mihi (of which 

 Scaptocosa Banks is a synonym) into Lycosa Latreille. Yet Geolycosa 

 differs marke^lly from any true Lycosa in the size and length of the firet 

 legs and in their possession of thick scopulse. 



Had I the time to do so, I believe I could satisfactorily re-establish 

 all of my species that Prof. Chambcrlin has tried to disestablish. He 

 has not seen any of the type specimens in my private collection, though 

 I woulfl gladly have given him access to them had I known he was 

 preparing a revision. His revision needs a considerable amount of 

 emendation. What we should all of us do in such nuiltcrs is not to 

 work apart but in co-operation, and this is almost essential for progress 

 in systematic studies. When the time has conic ff)r a taxnnomic 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 515 



revision of any group, those who have contributed most to the subject 

 should bring their collections together in one place, and there they 

 should institute their comparisons conjointly. I stated in my memoir of 

 1904: "This paper is by no means a comprehensive monograph, but 

 is intended to be a help to' the one who comes later with sufficient 

 material at his disposal to make the monograph." The main defi- 

 ciency in Prof. Chamberlin's revision seems to liave been insufficient 

 type material. 




516 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC, 



December 1. 

 Arthur Erwix Browx, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Ninety-seven persons present. 



The Publication Committee reported that papers under the following 

 titles had l)een presented for publication: 



"Synopsis of the Cyprinidae of Pennsylvania." By Henry W. 

 Fowler ( November 30). 



'^On the Meloidae of Angola." By F. Creighton WeUman, M.D. 

 (December 1). 



"On a New Species of Diatom of the Genus Cymatopleura. " By 

 Charles S. Boyer (December 1). 



Dr. F. Creighton WeUman made a communication on the natural 

 history of West Africa. (Xo abstract.) 



December 15. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 



Thirty-two persons present. 



The reception of papers under the following titles was announced 

 by the Publication Committee: 



"Notes on Polinices didyma, with Description of a new Australian 

 Species." By H. A. Pilsbry and E. G. ^'anatta (December 5). 



"On the Teeth of Hawaiian Species of Helicina." By II. A. Pils- 

 bry and C. iAIontague Cooke (December 5). 



"ClavLsiliida; of the Japanese Empire, XH." By Henry A. Pilsbry 

 (December 10). 



"New Land Mollu.sca of the Japanese Empire." iiy II. A. Pilsbry 

 and G. Hirase (December 11). 



The following were ordered to be printed : 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 517 



A SYNOPSIS OF THE CYPRINID^ OF PENNSYLVANIA. 

 BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



Though my studies on our local fishes began in 1897 and have 

 since continued, I have not paid especial attention to the Cyprinidae 

 till recently. The more or le.ss complete collections made in that 

 time, in the southeastern portion of the State at least, have made it 

 possible for me to give some study to the individual variation of cer- 

 tain charactei-s in detail and to local distribution. The results 

 are introduced in the present paper, together with notes and redescrip- 

 tions of typical specimens of species described from within the jire- 

 scribed limits. The examination of the mass of material, which in 

 the cases of the common forms usually consists of large series of 

 hundreds of specimens, has enabled me to present a fairly accurate 

 summary. 



As so man}' of our western streams are pollute<l, or becoming so, 

 the fish-fauna will probably soon be largely, if not wholly, exterminated, 

 especially in the larger ba'^ins. I have found this condition to exist 

 in a number of streams of lasser size. This is all the more unfortu- 

 nate for our present purpose, as the greater variety of forms is found 

 in these larger streams, or about tiicm, the mountain-brooks usually 

 being noteworthy for their paucity of species. 



The first complete account of our CyprinidsB was Cope's elaborate 

 memoir pul)lisho<l many years ago.' Though exliaustive so far as 

 his material and observations would permit at tiie time, the work 

 is very incomplete, besides being encumbered by various notes, descrip- 

 tions and discussions more or less irrelevant. It is, however, of great 

 value, not only in making known a number of new forms and as a 

 contribution to systematic ichthyology, but in discussing the 

 distribution and to some extent the habits of the various species. 

 Previous to this work all the accounts or records of the Cyi)rinidai 

 of Pennsylvania were to be found in a few scattered papere. Lator, in 

 Cope's account of the fish-fauna of the State,' a work intended more as 



' SynopsLs of the Cypriiii<l!n of I'cnnsvlvania, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. Phila., 

 XIII, n. K., 1S69, pp. .WI-.W.), I'U. lU-ia. 



' Tli.> Fislu>8 of l\'nii.svlvuiiia, Hep. State Comm. Fiah., 1879-80 (1881). pp. 59- 

 1 •«.->, fig.i. 1-M. 




51S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



a semi-popular descriptive catalogue, the Cyprinidae are again treated 

 as a whole. Bean then gives^ a largely compiled account of the same 

 nature, introtlucing also several hypothetical species. These latter 

 I have placed in foot-notes in the present paper. The contribution 

 by Evermann and Bollman* on the ]\Ionongahela fishes is especially 

 valuable in furnishing us with an account of a basin which is now 

 much polluted. Finalh^ in a recent paper,^ I have mentioned a num- 

 ber of localities where much of my own material was obtained, and 

 thus mapped out the local distribution of some species. 



I have not recorded any examinations of the stomachs of some 

 of the species, leaving the details to be incorporated in future work. 

 Little attention is, therefore, given here to the food of the different 

 forms. 



The introduced species, such as the carp and gold fish, are not treated 

 in this paper. 



In explanation of the squamation formulas it may be said that the 

 median lateral longitudinal count of scales is in the lateral line, when 

 present, to the base of the caudal fin, and that the few on the latter 

 to be added are signified by the interpolated plus mark. Above 

 the lateral line the scales are counted obliqueh' down from the origin 

 of the dorsal fin posteriorly, and below obliquel}- up from the origin 

 of the anal fin fonvard. 



Acknowledgment is here made to those who' have so kindly assisted 

 me in securing material used in this work, their names being mentioned 

 elsewhere in my local works. 



All of the specimens used in the preparation of this paper are now 

 contained in the Academy's collections. 



Campostoma anomalum (Rafinesque). 



Head 3^ to 4J; depth 3| to 5; D. iii, 7, i, rarely iii, 8, i; A. iii, 

 6, i; scales 43 to 55 + 2 to 4, usually 2 or 3; usually 7 scales above 

 1. 1., occasionally S; usually 6 scales below 1. 1., occasionally 7; 13 to 

 16 scales transversely from dorsal in young with incomplete 1. 1.; 

 18 to 25 predorsal .scal&s; snout 2^ to 3§ in head ; eye 3^ to 6^; maxil- 

 lary 3 to 4J^; interorbital 2^ to 3^; teeth 4-4. Body stout, moderately 

 compres.sed, predorsal gibbous in adult. Snout moderately convex. 

 Scales crowded anteriorly. Color brownish, tinted olive or green 



'The Fishes of Pennsylvania, Rep. State Comm. Fish., 1889-91 (1892) pd 

 1-149, Pis. 1-3.5. y h If- 



♦Notes f.ri a (>)llection of Fislios from the -Monongahela River .Inn N Y 

 /lr<jd. .SV/., Ill, 188.3-8.5 (IS-Sfi), np. 3;«-.310. 



* Kffords of Pennsylvania l-'islics, Am. Nat., XfJ, 1907, pp. .5-21. 



I 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 519 



above. Scales somewhat mottled. Dusky vertical bar behind 

 opercle. Dusky cross-bar on dorsal and anal, other fins bright red 

 in spring-males, olive in females. Nearly entire upper surface of spring- 

 males tuberculous, and iris , golden. Very variable, young differ in 

 appearance from adults. Length If to 6^ inches. Many examples 

 from Beaver and Kiskiminitas Rivers, Port Allegany (McKean Co.), 

 and Newcastle (Lawrence Co.). 



Found in the more quiet waters of our streams, frequently in small 

 ruas and the deeper pools. It feeds on the bottom, frequently asso- 

 ciated with other small fishes, and is rather sluggish, though active if 

 disturbed. I have not found it in the small cokler mountain brooks. 

 In the spring it ascends small brooks to spawn. I have found it some- 

 times infested with a fungus, appearing as a white fluffy gro\A'th, 

 in which cases the fish appears sickly or stupid. Not being very hardy 

 it is of little use as bait. It reaches a length of 8 inches and is little 

 valued as a pan fish. In our limits it is distril)uted only west of the 

 AUeghanies. 

 Chroaomns erythrogaster (P.afinesque). 



Head 3J; depth 4\; I), iii, 7, i; A. iii, 7, i; scales about 88 + 4; 

 28 scales traasversely from doi-sal to ventral origin; 40 predoi-sal 

 scales; snout 3^ in head; eye 3^; maxillary 3§; interorbital 3. Body 

 compressed, fusiform, dee|>est medianl}'. Head compressed, rather 

 tapering. Eye rounded, about fii-st third in head. Mouth moderate, 

 oblique, terminal. Jaws about equal. Maxillary to eye. Rakers 

 about 2 + 7 short stumps. L. 1. short, scarcely bej'ond middle of 

 pectoral. Doi-sal origin about midway between front eye margin 

 and caudal base. Anal little behind dorsal base. Caudal emarginate, 

 lobes equal. Pectoral aliriost to ventral, latter inserted little before 

 dorsal, reaches vent. Color olive-brown, often with blackisli spots, 

 and dusky dorsal line. Sides silvery between 2 black lateral bands, 

 upper straight from ui)})cr opercle angle to caudal, sometimes broken 

 up behind, and broader lower one curvetl down little to end in caudal 

 black spot. Belly silvery. Length If inches. Kiskiminitas River. 



This fish is only found west of the AUeghanies. It reaches 3 inches 

 in length, and is a beautiful little minnow, the spring males having 

 the sides between the black bands, belly and bases of the vertical 

 fins scarlet, the other fins orange, and the body everywhere minutely 

 tuberculate. The females are plainly colored, and usually with little 

 if any red. It is said to be ver\' hardy and therefore attractive in the 

 aquarium, as well as desirable bait for ba'vs and yellow perch. It is 

 also said to occur in clear cold brooks formed about spring-heads, 




520 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



be ven' active, and not vei*}' abundant anj'where. The above example, 

 obtaine<l by Cope, is the only one I have from our hmits. 



Chrosomas erythrogaster eos (Cope). 



C. eos Cope, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Pliila., 1861, p. 523. Meshoppen Creek, 

 Susquehanna Co. 



Head 3^; depth 4§; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 7, i; P. i, 15?; V. i, 8; 

 scales 80? 4- 5?; 24? scales transvereely from doi-sal to middle of belly; 

 50? predoreal scales; head width 2 its length; head depth 1|; mandible 

 2^; first branched dorsal ray If; anal ray If; upper caudal lobe 1^; 

 least depth of caudal peduncle 2f ; pectoral If; ventral IfV; snout 

 4 J in head measured from upper jaw tip; eye 3J; maxillary 3f ; inter- 

 orbital 3. 



B(xly elongate, compressed, edges convex, profiles apparently 

 about evenly fusiform, deepest midway in length. Caudal peduncle 

 compressed, least depth about 1^ its length. 



Head moderate, robust, compressed, above rather broadly convex, 

 lower profile more inclined convexly. Snout surface broadly convex, 

 length about f ^vidth. Eye large, circular, about first f in head. 

 Mouth well inclined, oblique, gape curved, closed mandible slightly 

 protruding. Maxillarj- narrow, mostly concealed by preorbital, 

 exposed end almost to eye. Mouth moderately small, jaw edges rather 

 blunt and not especially hard. Lips thin. Tongue thick, fleshy, 

 rounded, scarcely free. Nostrils together on snout above, about last 

 third its length, posterior larger, anterior with cutaneous rim. Inter- 

 orbital broad, slightly evenly convex. Preorbital width about f its 

 length, latter 1^ in eye, lower margin convex. Lower posterior pre- 

 opercle corner rather evenly convex. 



Gill-opening last f of head. Rakei"s reduced, short small flcsiiy 

 points. Filaments about 4 of eye. Pseud obranchiaj little shorter 

 than filaments. Teeth 5-5, elongate, compressed, tips hooked, 

 grinding-surfaces narrow. 



Scales small, cycloid, in nearly even In^rizontal series, considerably 

 smaller along dorsal and ventral body edges. Scales on caudal base 

 little rcfluced. L. 1. incomplete, on fii-st few scales, curving down little 

 below middle of side. Tubes simple, persisting to each scale edge. 



Dorsal origin about midway between hind eye margin and caudal 

 base, first branche<l ray highest, last about f of first. Anal inserted 

 about midway between pectoral medianly and caudal base just behind 

 dorsal base, first branched ray highest, fin rounded like dorsal. Caudal 

 emarginate, pointe<l lobes about ('(jual. Pectoral pointed, upper rays 

 longest, J to ventral. Vontral inserted little before dorsal origin or 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 521 



about midway between front eye margin and caudal ba-^^e, reaching 

 vent close before anal. 



Color in alcohol faded dull or pale brownish, belly and below slightly 

 silvery-white. Faint trace of dark streak from eye to caudal ba.se, 

 another from upper side of head back to upper caudal peduncle surface 

 hardly evident, fading out behind though passibly joining lower? 

 Fins all fade<^l pale whitish. Iris leaden-white. 



Length aljout 2 inches (caudal slightly damage<l). 



No. 22,116, A. X. S. P., cotype (type) of C. eos Cope. Mcshoppen 

 Creek, Susquehanna Co. (Cope). 



Also Nos. 22, 117 and 22, 118, same data, showing: Head 3§; 

 depth 4f to 4^?; D. iii, 7. i : A. iii, 7, i ; scales 76 to 82 -f- 5; 26 scales 

 traasversely ; snout 3^ to 4 in head; eye 3 to 3^; maxillarj' 3\ to 3A; 

 interorbital 3 J to 3^; teeth 5-5; length If to 1|| inches. 



This fish is only known to me from the above examples, though 

 Cope mentions 4, all of which were taken in September of 1861. Noth- 

 ing is known of the species, aside from Cope's short description. 

 Hybo^nathai nnchalis .\Ka?^>ii 



Recorded l>v Cope. Occurs west of the Alleghanies. I have no 

 examples. 



Hybognathni naohalis argyritis (Oirarl). 



H. nuchalis Fowler, Am. Nat., \\A, 1907, p. S. Kiskiminitas R ^\ot of 

 Ag.) 



Head 3} to 4^; depth 4 to 4^; 1). iii, 7, i: A. iii, 6, i; scales 37 

 to 42 + 2; 7 scales above 1. 1.; 4 or 5 scales below 1. 1.; 23 predorsal 

 scales; snout 3^ to 3§ in head; eye 2^ to 3J; maxillary 3^ to '.Vi; 

 interorbital 2^^ to 3; teeth 4-4. Body moderately compressed, some- 

 what fusiff)rm. Head rather short. Snout broadly convex. Eye 

 little elongate, rather large. Mouth rather wide. .Maxillary to eye. 

 Preorbital broml, width i its length. Rakers 2 + 7? short weak 

 points?. T,. 1. median. Dorsal origin about midway between front 

 nostril and caudal ba.se. Anal behind dorsal base. Caudal apparently 

 little emarginated. Pectoral about J to ventral, latter inserted trifle 

 before dorsal reaching i to vent. Color largely .silvery. r.«ngth H 

 to 2 inches. Four examples from the Kiskiminitas R. (Cope). 



This fish Is closely relate<l to //. nuchalis, with which I recently 

 confu.se<l it, but difTers a[)parently in the much larger nuixillarv. 

 It occurs west of the Allc^hanicts and is said to attain a length of 1 

 inches. 



Hybof^nathui nuohalii re^iui Mtirani) 



Head 1 to li; dcptli 3^ to \]: D. iii. 7. i: A. iii. 7. i. ran^lv iii. 




522 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



6, i; scales 34 to 40, usually 36 to 39 + usually 2, occasionally 

 3, rarely 1 ; 6 scales above 1. 1. ; usually 4 scales, occasionally 5, below 

 1. 1.; 14 to 18 preclorsal scales; snout 3^ to 4 in head; eye 3 to 4; 

 maxillary 3} to 4^; interorbital 2f to 3; teeth 4-4. Body compressed, 

 somewhat slender. Head short, blunt. Snout blunt, broad, convex. 

 Eye small. Mouth small. Maxillary not quite to eye. Preorbital 

 moderate, ^adth about 2 its length. Rakers 4 + 7? short weak points, 

 tips sometimes bifurcate. L. 1. median. Dorsal origin little nearer 

 snout tip than caudal base. Caudal rather broad, forked, lobes pointed. 

 Pectoral about f to ventral, latter inserted about opposite dorsal origin 

 and f to anal. Color largely silvery, pale olive above. Fins pale. 

 Iris silvery. Length 2yV to 4| inches. Many examples from the 

 Delaware R. at Holmesburg (Philadelphia Co.), Bristol and Hulmeville 

 (Bucks Co.). 



This handsome fish is very abundant in the lower or tidal region of 

 the Delaware and its larger tributaries. I have not yet found it in the 

 Susquehanna. Though usually brilliant silvery-white in life, brassy- 

 tinted individuals are often met with. It attains a larger size than 

 any of the related forms, and is said to reach 9 inches in length. It 

 may be of some use as a pan fish, frequently varying the luck of perch 

 fishermen, as it readily takes the hook. It seems to prefer the still 

 tidal waters of our open rivers and creeks, and is frequently found in 

 shoals about sand bai"s, and in little bays or guts, frequently associated 

 with killies or other small fishes. The sexes are alike, and without 

 tubercles or brilliant variegated pigment. 



Pimephales promelas Rafinesque. 



Head 3i; dpi)th 3f ; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 7, i; scales 42 + 2 (12 

 tubes forming 1. 1., then skipping 3 scales, then tube, then skipping 2 

 scales, and tube at caudal base); 9 scales above 1. 1.; 5 scales below 

 1. 1.; 23 predorsal scales; snout 3^ in liead;eye 4; maxillary 4§; 

 interorbital 2J; teeth 4-4. Body deep, well compresseti, rather short. 

 Head robust, convex. Snout broarl. I\vo circular. ^Mouth small, 

 low. Maxillary to front nostril, oblique. Rakers 4+11 short weak 

 points, some ends little bifurcated. Scales rather narrowly im])ricated. 

 Dorsal origin midway between front eye margin and caudal base, 

 second simple ray detached from third. Anal liltle behind dorsal 

 base. Caudal emarginate, equal lobes rounded. Pectoral f to ven- 

 tral, latter little before dorsal and reaching vent. Color olivo-brown, 

 scale e<lges dusky. Head dusky-black, opercle edge creamy-brown. 

 Iris gray-white. Dorsal gray, second simple ray pale, others medianly 

 largely dusky-gray, anterior ones blackish. Caudal and pectoral 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 523 



grayish, other fins whitish. Several large tubercles on muzzle. 

 Length 2^^ inches. One example from Port Allegany (McKean Co.) 

 on June 2cl, 1906 (Keim and Fowler). 



The above is the only example I have secured from our limits. 

 This fish prefei^s sluggish brooks or pools and varies greatly with 

 season, age or sex. The head is almost globular in adult males. It 

 is interesting in the aquarium. It feeds on green algae and mud, and 

 is sometimes met with in muddy pools. Onh' reaching a length of 

 3 inches it is of no use as a pan fish. Found west of the Alleghanies. 

 Pimephales notatus (Rafinesque). 



Head 3^ to 4J; depth 4 to 5; I), iii, 7, i; A. iii, 6, i; scales 37 to 

 45 + usually 2, seldom 3, rarely 1 ; usually 7 scales, sometimes 6, 

 above 1. 1.; usually 4 or 5 scales, rarely 3, below 1. 1.; 20 to 30 pre- 

 dorsal scales, usually 22 to 26; snout 3 to 3§ in head; eye 2^ to 4}; 

 interorbital 2 to 3; teeth 4—4. Body somewhat elongate, moderately 

 compressed. Head robust, convex. Snout blunt, convex. Eye 

 circular. Mouth small, low. Maxillary to hind nostril. Rakers 

 about 4 4-7 short weak points. Scales narrowly imbricated. L. 1. 

 complete in adult. Dorsal origin midway between snout tip and caudal 

 ba^e, second simple ray detachetl from third. Anal l)ehind dorsal 

 base. Caudal forked, lobes rounded. Pectoral § to ventral, latter 

 iiiserterl a])out opposite dorsal origin and reaching firet branchetl 

 anal ray base. Color olivaceous. Plead blackisii, gill-opening edged 

 buff, in spring males, otherwise buff. Iris black and bronze. Pale 

 dusky lateral difTuse band. Doi-sal brownish, edge whitish, base black- 

 ish. Caudal dull oUve, other fins paler. Large tubercles on nuizzle of 

 spring males. Length l-^g to 3j'^ inches. Many examples: from 

 the Kiskiminitas R.; Cole Grove and Port Allegany (McKcan Co.); 

 York Furnace (York Co.); Foxburg (Clarion Co.); Erie (Erie Co.). 



Closely resemliling the prece<ling, especially when yoinig, but dis- 

 tinguislu^l l)y it.s more inferior moutli, rather more slender body, and 

 slightly protruding blunt snout. Tiie 1. 1. Ls variable, though absent 

 in the young of both species it soon appears in the present. It is found 

 in most of our western streams, though extending into the Susqueiianna 

 and thus farther east than the last. I have not found it in the Dela- 

 ware. It prefers quiet streams and pools, often when muddy, and 

 associates with f)ther small fishes. It is variable in color, spring males 

 being strikingly colore<l, though otherwi.se bt>th sexes are pale olive 

 with a dark l)Iackish lateral band ending in a black caudal spot. A 

 good bait minnow, a.'^ it is active and tenacious, reaching 4 inches in 

 length. 




524 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Semotilas bnllaris (Hafinesque). 



Squalius hyalope Cope, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Pliila., 1S64, p. 2S0. Cones- 

 toga Creek, Lancaster Co. 



Head 3J; depth 4^; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 7, i; scales 44 + 3; 7 scales 

 above 1. 1.; 6 scales below 1. 1.; 20 predorsal scales; snout 3^ in head; 

 eye 3^; maxillary 3; interorbital 2|; pectoral 1^; ventral 1|; least 

 depth caudal petluncle 2^; teeth 2, 5-4, 2. Body little elongate, 

 compressetl. Head large, rather conic, compressed. Snout convex, 

 length about l its width, slightly protruding. Eye little ellipsoid, high, 

 trifle anterior. Maxillary to eye. Xo barbel. Interorbital broad, nearly 

 flat. Rakei"s 3 + 5 short weak obsolete denticles. Scales striate, pre- 

 dorsal but little smaller. L. 1. complete, shghtly decurved. Dorsal 

 inserted nearer caudal base than snout tip. Anal inserted about mid- 

 way between pectoral tip and caudal base. Pectoral about f to ventral, 

 latter inserted about opposite dorsal origin, reaches vent close before 

 anal. Color in alcohol dull browrush, sides and below paler to whitish 

 with silver}' traces. Iris brassy. Length 3^ inches. No. 4,882, A. N. 

 S. P., cot)T)e (type) of S. hyalope Cope. Conestoga Creek, Lancaster Co. 

 (Stauffer). From Cope. Nos. 4,883 to 4,886, same data. 



Head 3J to 4i\y ; depth 3^ to 5; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 7, i; scales 40 to 

 49, usually 41 to 47 + 2 or 3; usually 8, occasionally 7, seldom 9, 

 scales above 1. 1.; usually 6 scales, frequently 5, rarely 4 or 7, below 

 1. 1.; usually 21 predorsal scales, frequently 20 or 22, often 19 or 23, 

 seldom 24, and rarely 18 or 25; snout 2f to 3-5- in head; eye 2f to 6^; 

 maxillarv- 2 J to 3^; teeth 2, 5-4, 2, occasionally 2, 4-4, 2, rarely 2, 

 5-5, 2 or 2, 5-3, 2 or 1, 5-4, 2. Body robust, compressed. Head 

 compressed, convex. Snout convex, about broad as long. Eye round, 

 high. Mouth large, nearly horizf)ntal. Mandible included. Jaws 

 hea\y. Maxillary nearly to eye, with short barbel above near end, 

 latter absent in most young. Rakers 3+4 short weak denticles. 

 Scales large, well exposed. Dorsal origin little nearer caudal base 

 than snout tip. Anal behind dorsal base. Caudal forked. Pectoral 

 about J to ventral, latter inserted little before dorsal, reaches about 

 } to anal. Color largely silvery-white below, bluish and olive on back. 

 Spring males brilliant vermilion on sides of head and body, lower 

 fins and dorsal base, iris orange and front of head tuberculate. length 

 IJ to 15 inches. A very largo scries of all ages: from the Delaware 

 R. basin at Kennett Square, Willistown Barrens, Crum Creek 2 miles 

 east of White Horse, Ring's Run (Chester Co.); Markam, near Wawa, 

 Collar Brook (Delaware Co.); HohrK-sburg, Torre.«;(iale (Pliihidelpliia 

 Co.); Cornwclls, near Langhorne (Bucks Co.); Delaware Water Cap 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 525 



(Monroe Co.); Dingmann's Ferry (Pike Co.): Susquehanna R. basin 

 in the Conestoga Creek (Lancaster Co.); Emporium (Cameron Co.)- 



This is the largest and gamiest member of the family in our limits. 

 It occurs only ea.st of the Alleghanies or in our Atlantic basin, seemingly 

 more abundant in the Delaware than in the Susquehanna. It is a 

 vigorous fish, reaching about 18 inches in length. It often occurs 

 about rapids and falls, from which it has earned the name of fall fish. 

 The large ones occur in the rivers or other large bodies of water, though 

 small ones are mature when only a few inches long and found living 

 in small brooks. It is a very variable species, especially as to age, sex 

 or season. Small adults resemble the young of large adults, being 

 silvery with a dark lateral stripe, the latter fading out ^Nath age. It 

 is omnivorous, and is often abundant about moutlis of sewers, with 

 suckei-s. It will take most bait, also the fly, and may be taken by 

 trolling. It is usually angled in the summer, though often bites well 

 in the fall. One often sees Thoreau quoted that "the chub is a soft 

 fish and tastes like brown paper salted," which is not altogether true, 

 as it is often a very acceptable pan fish and, perhaps not possessing 

 the qualities of flavor of some of our other fishes, is not always to be 

 compared to saltetl brown paper. It must be eaten when fresh and 

 is then very good. It Ls said to spawn in the spring in quiet shallow 

 places, accumulating large patches of gravel or pebbles, the so-called 

 "nests." 



Semotilus atromaculatus (Mitchill). 



Head ij^ to 4; depth 3i? to 5}?; D. iii, 7, i, rarely iii, 8, i; A. 

 iii, 7, I, rarely iii, 8, i; scales 49 to 61, usually 50 to 58 + 2 to 4, 

 usually 3; 9 to 12 scales above 1. 1., usually 10, frequently 11, other^xise 

 rarely; 5 to 8 scales below 1. 1., usually 6, frequently 7, otherwise rarely; 

 27 to 38 predorsal scales, usually 30 to 34; snout 3 to 3 J in head; 

 eye 3} to 7f ; ma.xillaiy 2f to 3^; teeth 2, 5-4, 2, occasionally 2, 4-4, 2, 

 rarely 2, 6-6, 2 or 2, 5-5, 2 or 2, 3, 2-5, 2 or 2, 5-3, 4, 5 or 2, 5, 3-4, 

 3, 2 or 3, 4-4, 2. licKJy robust forward, compresseil. Head robust, 

 l)rf)atl, obtusely conic, heavy. Snout broad, convex, length ^ its width. 

 Eye round, rather high. Moutli broad, rather large, little inclined. 

 •Mandible included. Jaws heavy. Maxillary about to eye, with short 

 barlu'l above near end, latter absent in young. Rakers 2 + 6 sliort 

 weak jKiints. Scales small, crowded and smaller anteriorly. Dorsal 

 origin aiiout midway between front pupil margin and caudal base. 

 Anal behind dorsal ba'^e. Caudal forke<l. Pectoral al)out J to ventral, 

 latter inserted little before dorsal and reaching about § to anal. Color 

 dusky-olive above. Dull diffuse band of same laterally, usually ending 

 84 




526 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



in blackish spot at caudal ba^e, especially in younp. Below silvery- 

 white, rasy-red in spring males. Dusky bar behind opercle. Iris 

 orange and yellow. Black spot at dorsal base in front margined 

 orange-re<l. Dorsal and caudal pale olive, other fins with vermilion 

 in spring males. Several large tubercles on snout and front of spring 

 males. Length If to SJ inches. A veiy large series: from the Dela- 

 ware R. ba.'^in in the Schuylkill R. ; Cobb's Creek, Collar Brook, Faw- 

 ke.s Run, fii-st brook above Whetstone Run (Delaware Co.); Phila- 

 delphia: Susquehanna R. basin at Emporium (Cameron Co.); Muncy 

 (Lycoming Co.); Octoraro Creek at Nottingham (Chester Co.); near 

 Ephrata, Denver and Swamp Bridge (Lancaster Co.): Genesee R. 

 basin at Gold and Raj-monds (Potter Co.) : Youghiogheny R., Meadow 

 Run (Fayette Co.) : Kiskiminitas R. : Beaver R. : Allegheny R. basin 

 at Warren (Warren Co.); Port Allegany (.McKean Co.). 



This chub is found everywhere in our limits more or less abundantly, 

 not only in the larger streams but very often in the small clear moun- 

 tain brooks, where it often associates with Rhinichthys atronasus. 

 It is very voracious, and wDl eagerly take a hook with most baits, or 

 even a fly. Reaching a length of about 10 inches, it is said to be a 

 fair pan fish. It is also used as bait. The young differ considerably 

 from the adult in the blackish lateral band. I have found this fish 

 especially abundant in cold rapid trout streams, such as those in the 

 upper Allegheny valley. It is said to spawn in the spring or early 

 summer, constructing the "nests" about riffles or coaise gravel bai-s. 



Leucisous vandoisalas Valenciennes. 



Head 85 to 4; depth 3J to 4; D. iii, 7, i, rarely iii, 8, i; A. iii, 

 8, I, occasionally iii, 7, i; scales 44 to 52, usually about 48 + 2 or 3, 

 usually 2; lusually 10 scales, seldom 9 or 11, above 1. 1.; usually 6 

 scales, frequently 5, below 1. 1.; 21 to 28, usually about 24, prcdoi"sal 

 scales; snout 3 J to 3| in heatl; eye 2 J to 3h; maxillary 2 to 2J; teeth 

 2^ 5-4, 2. Botly compressed, deep. Head compressed. Snout 

 convex. Eye roiind, higli. Mouth large, well inclined, mandible 

 prf)truding. Maxillaiy to pupil. Rakers 2-1-5 short denticles. 

 Scales well exposed. L. 1. well decurved, comjilete. Doi-sal origin 

 midway between front eye margin and caudal ba.se. Anal iaserted 

 Ix'low hist dorsal ray. Caudal deeply forktnl, lobes ])ointcd. Pec- 

 toral reaching little beyond ventral, latter inserted well before dorsal 

 origin and reaches anal. Color olivaceous above, each scale margined 

 dusky and sides finely jtunctate with dtisky. Leaden streak from 

 snout and shoulder back op]>o.sitc ventral, bounded below on trunk 

 by streak of bright orange-re<l. Below white. Doi-sai and rjnulal 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 527 



dull olivaceoas, other fins pale. Iris brownish with golden ring. 

 Head above minutely tuberculate. Young nearly plain-colored .and 

 females usually ^Nithout tubercles. Length 1} to 3y\ inches. Many 

 examples from the Susquehanna R. basin in tributaries of the Octoraro 

 Creek and the head-waters of the North East Creek, North East R. 

 basin, near Nottingham (Chester Co.). 



This little minnow is found in small streams of clear water, usually 

 about pools, and often associated with other small fishes. It is said 

 to reach 5 inches in length. The males are very gaudy in spring dress, 

 which some attain when half grown. It occui-s only in our Atlantic 

 basin and, though I found it in the lower Sustiuehanna valley, have not 

 yet met with it in tlie Delaware, where, however, it has been recorded 

 by Cope. 

 LeaoiiouB elongatas (Kirtland). 



Head 3^ to 4; depth 4^ to 5J; D. iii. 7. i; A. iii. S, i, seldom iii, 

 7, I, rarely iii, 9, i; scales GO to 75. usually about 60 to 69 -I- usually 

 2, frequently 3, rarely 4; usually 13 scales, frequently 12, seldom 11,, 

 rarely 14, al)ove 1. 1.; usually 7 scales, frequently 8, below 1. 1.; 25 to 

 38, usually 28 to 35, predorsal scales; snout 3 J to 3} in head ; eye 2j 

 to 4i ; maxillary 2yV to 2^ ; teeth 2. 5-4, 2, frequently 2, 4-4, 2. Body 

 compressed, elongate. Head compressed, rather pointe<l. iSnout 

 convex. Eye round, high. Mouth large, well inclined, mandil)lo pro- 

 truding. Maxillaiy trilie beyond pupil front. Rakers aijout 2-1-5 

 short points. Scales small, about uniform. L, 1. little dccurved, 

 complete in adult, incomplete or al>.sent in j'oung. Doi-sal origin 

 little nearer caudal base than snout tip. Anal little behind dorsal 

 base. Caudal emarginate. Pectoral } to ventral, latter inserted 

 little before doi-sal origin and fin * to anal. Color olivaceous above, 

 scales mottled darker. Lateral band of blackish, first half bright 

 re<l in spring males. Below silvery-white. Lower fias retldentnl in 

 spring males. Dark median dorsal .streak. Iris silvery, dark lateral 

 band passing through. I-^Miglh IJ to 3| inches. Many examples 

 from the Allegheny R. basin at Cole Grove and Port Allegany (McKran 

 Co.). 



Rc.semi;les the preceding. Found only in the clear mountain streams 

 west of the Alleghanies, usually as-sociateil with other small fishes. 

 Said to reach 5 inches and be a goo<l bait minnow. 

 Leaoitoas margariU (Coi>«). 



Cltnonliifniis mnrgnrita Cope, Trntij*. Am. I'liilim. Soc. Pliila., (2) XIII, 1869, 

 p. 'Ml, fifj. (trt'tli), n. 13, (ijf. 1. Tin* C<in(*t«toga, m-iir LunctiHtor. 



Head 4; depth 45: D. evidently iii? 7, i Mamage<n A iii. ? 7? 




528 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF ' [DeC, 



(damaged); P. i, 10?; scales about 58 to caudal base; 1. 1. formed 

 of about 35 distinct tubes anteriorly; 11 scales above 1. 1.; 7 scales 

 below 1. 1.; 31 predorsal scales; head u-idth 1|^ its length; head depth 

 at occiput H; mandible about 2J; dorsal base about 2; least depth 

 caudal peduncle 2^; snout 4 in head, measured from upper jaw tip; 

 eye 3J; interorbital 2f ; maxillar>' 3yxj- 



Body moderately elongate, well compressed, edges rounded, deepest 

 near dorsal origin and upper profile apparenth^ more evenly convex 

 anteriorly than lower. Caudal compressed, rather deep, least depth 

 about If its length. 



Head moderately small, robust, compressed, little broad above and 

 becoming slightly constricted below. Profiles similarly inclined, 

 upper little more convex anteriorly than lower. Snout convex, 

 length about | its ^-idth. Eye circular, large, high, placed about first 

 f in head. Mouth small, well inclined, gape nearly straight in profile. 

 Mandible protruding, rather shallowly convex, rami well elevated 

 inside mouth. Maxillary mostly concealed, robust, well inclined, end 

 past eye front, not quite to pupil. Jaw edges firm. Lips thin, evi- 

 dently little developed. Tongue rather thick, fleshy, not free. Nos- 

 trils lateral on snout above, near eye, anterior ■^\'ith cutaneous margin, 

 posterior larger, in crescent. Interorbital rather broadly convex. 

 Preorbital large, trapezoidal, width about f its length, latter about 

 H in eye. Other suborbitals narrow. Preopercle margin inclined 

 forward, angle rather broadly convex. 



Gill-opening about to middle of head. Rakers 2 + 4? short weak 

 points, about 4 in filaments, latter | of eye. Pseud obranehiae rather 

 large. Teeth 2, 5-4, 2, hooked, slender, compressed, without evident 

 grinding surfaces. 



Scales rather small, adherent, mostly uniform, in series parallel 

 with 1. 1. Predorsal scales small, little crowded. Breast scales still 

 smaller. L. 1. apparently complete, first slightly decurved, ascending 

 median caudal peduncle side. Tubes simple, well exposed, though 

 posterior rather indistinct. 



Dorsal origin about mifhvay between front eye margin and caudal 

 base, fin mo<lerately high, first branched (damaged) rays longest. 

 Anal origin about opposite last dorsal ray base or about midway 

 l)etween caudal base antl depressed pectoral tij). Caudal damaged. 

 Vent close bcf(jre anal. 



Ctjlor in alcohol above dull browni.sh generally, sides and below 

 pale or whitish with shining mercury tints. Sides uniform in color, 

 and sprinkled all over with minute brownish dots or specks. Fins 

 plain or pale browni.sh. Iris brassy. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 529 



Length 1| inches (caudal nearly absent). 



Xo. 5,320, A. X. S. P., cotype of C. margarita Cope. A tributary 

 of the Conestoga, near Lancaster (Cope). 



Also Xo. 5,321, same data. Though this example is larger it is 

 broken in pieces and mostly macerated. As it agrees in having the 

 last few tubes in the scales of the 1. 1. discontinued before the caudal 

 base it was probably largely the basis of the original description. 



I only have the above material of Cope. He saj's it is bright crimson 

 below during midsiunmer and that it was found in a stream inhabited 

 b}^ Rhinichthys and Semotilus. It has not yet been taken out of the 

 Susquehanna basin in our limits. 

 Abramis crysolencas (Mitchill). 



Head 3i to 4$; depth 2h to 4i; D. iii, 7. i. rarely iii, 6, i or iii, 8. r, 

 once abnormally iii, 7-4; A. usually iii, 12, i or iii, 13, i, occasionally 

 iii, 14, I, rarely iii, 10, i or 11, i, or iii, 15, i, once abnormally iii, 

 S-2; scales usually 40 to 45, mostly 41 to 43, often 38, 39 or 46, seldom 

 47, rarely 48 or 50 + usually 2 or 3, rarely 1 or 4; usually 11 scales, 

 often 10, frequently 12, rarely 9 or 13, above 1. 1.; usually 4 scales, 

 frequently 5, rarely 3, below 1. 1.; usually 15 scales, frequently 14 or 

 16, rarely 17, transversely from dorsal origin, in young; usually 23, 

 frequently 21 to 25, often 20, 27 or 28. seldom 29, and rarely 16, 17, 

 18, 19 or 30, predorsal scales; snout 3^^ to 4^ in head; eye 2^ to 4^; 

 maxillary 3 to 4 J; interorbital 2^ to 3; teeth 5-5, occasionally 5^, 

 rarely 4-5 or 7-5 or 6-5 or 5-5, 2 or 1, 4rA, 2. Body well comjiressed, 

 post ventral trenchant. Head compressetl, upper profile slightly 

 concave. Snout broadly convex, length ^ its width. Eye circular. 

 Mouth small, oblique, mandible scarcely protruding. Maxillary not 

 quite to eye. Rakers about 5+11 firm compressed points. Scales 

 narrowly imbricated. L. 1. greatly decm-veil, complete in adult, incom- 

 plete in young. Doi*sal origin midway between hind eye margin and 

 caudal base. Anal trifle behind dorsal base. Caudal widely forked, 

 lobes pointe<l. Pectoral .^ to ventral, latter iasertcd well before dorsal, 

 fin } to anal. Color bluish-olive above, whitish below. Sides often 

 with bright deep bluish or golden reflectioas. Dorsal and caudal like 

 back, lower fias yellowish-vermilion in spring males. Iris silvery. 

 Length 1^ to 5A inches. Wry many examples: from the Delaware 

 R. basin at Kennett Square, Ring's Run and Willistown Barrens 

 (diesterCo.); Cliadd's Ford, Hunter's Run. Collingdale (Delaware Co.); 

 Holinesburg, Hiistleton (Phila<lelphia Co.); Cornwells, Hulmeville, 

 near Langhornc, Neshaminy Falls, Bristol, Emilic, Tullytown, Scott's 

 Creek, Yardloy (Bucks Co.); Hat l)oro (Montgomery Co.); Dingman's 




530 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [I^CC., 



I-"eny (Pike Co.): Susquehanna R. basin, at York Furnace (York 

 Co.); Xottingham (Chester Co.); near Denver and Witmer's Mills 

 (Lancaster Co.); Lopez (Sullivan Co.): Lake Erie at Erie (Erie Co.). 

 This is one of our most abundant species. It occui's in all our waters 

 and is sometimes found in large schools of thousands of individuals 

 in the Delaware tide-water. It is especially characteristic of pools, 

 ponds, cut-offs, in shallow or weed}'' places, and in still water. It 

 readily takes the hook, and though sometimes reaching a foot in length 

 is not considered much of a game fish. As a pan fi-sh it is fair. It is 

 not much in demand for bait as it is not very hardy, though its bright 

 color is an advantage as a lure. Variation is quite noticeable, and in 

 color often extremes of bluish and golden are found. It is very gre- 

 garious, and the large schools of shinei's one so often sees along the 

 shores of our creeks and quiet streams are frequently made up of this 

 fish, though it often associates with other species. The 3'oung are quite 

 different in color from the adult, having a black lateral band, which 

 disappears after they have grown several inches. 



Ceratichthys vigilax Baird and Girard. 



Known to me only from Evermann and Bollman's recortl from the 

 Monongahela River. 



ITotropis bifrenatus (Cope). 



Head 3^ to 4^; depth 3f to 5J; D. iii, 7, i, rarely iii, 6, i; A. iii, 

 6, I, rarely iii, 7, i; scales usually 33, frequently 32 or 34, often 30, 31 

 or 35, seldom 29 and rarely 36 + usually 2, often 3, seldom 1 ; usually 

 11 scales transversel}'' from dorsal origin to ventral, frequently 12, 

 seldom 10, rarel}^ 13; usually 6 scales above 1. 1., frequently 5; usually 

 4 scales below 1. 1., rarely 5; usually 12, frequently 13, often 11 and 14, 

 seldom 10, rarely 15, predorsal scales; snout 3J to 4\ in head; eye 

 2J to 3§; ma.xillary 3^ to 4J; interorbital 2 to 3; teeth 4-4, rarely 4-3. 

 B<xly rather compact, caudal peduncle little constricted. Head mode- 

 rate. Muzzle obtuse. Eye circular, high. Mouth oblique. Jaws 

 even. Rakers 2 + 5 weak points. Scales well exposed. L. 1. incom- 

 plete, usually only of about 1 1 tubes anteriorly. Dorsal origin nearer 

 snout tip than caudal base. Anal just behind doi-sal base. Caudal 

 long, forked, lobes rather pointed. Pectoral not to ventral. Ventral 

 iaserted about opposite doi-sal origin and reaching trifle beyond anal. 

 Color pale straw-l)rown, scales on back brown-edged. Shining black 

 band with blui.sh tinge, from snout to caudal base, including mandible 

 etlge. Orange band above this on snout in spring males. Polow 

 silvery. Fi as pale Length l^V t" 2, ".y inches. .Many examples: from 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 531 



Ring's Run and Black Horse Run (Chester Co.); CoUingclale (Delaware 

 Co.); Holmesburg and Torresdale (Philadelphia Co.); Hatboro (Mont- 

 gomery Co.) ; Cornwells, Hulmeville, Neshaminy Falls, Little Neshaminy 

 Creek. Bristol. Emilie. near Langhorne, Scott's Creek (Bucks Co.): 

 Susquehanna R. at York Furnace (York Co.). 



This pretty little minnow may best be known from the other mem- 

 bers of the genus by its incomplete lateral line. It closely resembles 

 N. procne, but may be distinguished by this character. It is usually 

 found in clear and rather still water, in schools of moderate size, and 

 associated with other small fishes, such as killies and roach. They 

 occur both in tide-water and above, in the small creeks and runs, and 

 I have found them in the open rivers, though along shore. The sexes 

 are colore<l alike, though during the spawning season, in May and June, 

 the gravid females are much deeper-bodied. The young do not 

 differ much from the adults. Altogether it is a weak little fish, but 

 quite attractive, and said to be of use as bait. I have met \Aith it 

 only in the lower Delaware and Susquehanna basins. Cope's types 

 of this species (Ilybopsis bifrenatiis) seem to be lost. 



Notropis delioiosus (Girard). 



Recordo<l from the Monongahela R. as N. d. atmmineus by Evermann 

 and Bollnuin. I have not .seen any examples. 



Notropis proone (Cope). 



Jlybognathus procne Copo, Proc. .\cad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 1S64, p. 283. Tlie 

 Concstoga. 



Head .3J; depth 4J; D. iii, 6, i; A. iii, G, i; P. i, 13; V. i, 7; 

 scales 32 + 2; 5 scales above 1. 1.; 4 scales below 1. 1.; 12 predorsal 

 scales; head width IJ its length; head depth at occiput 1^; snout 3^; 

 eye 2f; maxillary 3^; interorljital 2^; doi-sal base 1|; anal base 2\; 

 least deptii caudal peduncle 2^; pectoral 1^; ventral 1^. 



Body elongate, well compressed, profiles similarly fusiform or upper 

 only slightly more convex, dcej^est at dorsal origin, edges convexly 

 round. Caudal peduncle comprcs.sed, least depth about 2J its length. 



Heatl moderate, robust, wider than trunk, profiles about similar. 

 Snout obtiLse. convex, length § its width. lOye large, high, little longer 

 than deep, center near fii-st ^ in head. Mouth moderate, inferiorly 

 terminal. Mandible slightly included, rather shallowly depressed, 

 rami slightly el(»vate<l inside mouth. Lips thin. Premaxillaries 

 protractile down. Maxillary very slightly beyond front eye margin. 

 Jaw edges rather finn, trenchant. Tongue thick, fleshy, adnate. 

 Nostrils large, together, on snout above near eye, crescentic posterior 

 larger. Intororbital broad, flat. r'<"il»ital width about 1§ it.s length, 




532 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC. 



latter lA in eye. Infraorbital broadest of other narrow suborbitals. 

 Posterior preopercle margin nearly straight, but slightly inclined 

 forward. 



Gill-opening to hind pupil margin, isthmus width at this point 2^ 

 in eye. Rakers 2 + 4 short weak points, much shorter than filaments, 

 latter 2 in eye. Pseud obranchia) large, less than filaments. Isthmus 

 rather broadly depressed. Teeth lost. 



Scales moderately large, series parallel with 1. 1., mostly uniform 

 except smaller ones on caudal base, with fine radiating striae. L. 1. 

 continuous, first decurved slightly, then about midway along caudal 

 peduncle side. Tubes simple, each about f exposed scale. 



Dorsal origin midway between caudal base and snout tip, fin gradu- 

 ated down from first branched ray (damaged) and longest? Caudal 

 (damaged) emarginate, lobes equal? Pectoral § to ventral, upper 

 rays longest. Ventral iaserted little before dorsal origin, not quite to 

 vent. Vent close to anal. 



Color in alcohol faded mostly dull or pale brownish, not darker above. 

 Edges of back scales slightly darker than ground-color. Head above 

 brownish, below paler or translucent, sides washed silvery-white. 

 Entire side of body bright silvery-white with underlaid median lateral 

 streak from shoulder to caudal base medianly. From snout tip, back 

 over underlaid leaden streak, dull brown band, inconspicuous and 

 narrower than vertical eye. Iris pale silver}'-, leaden lateral streak 

 passing through. Fins pale or plain dull brownish, 



Ijength Iff inches (caudal damaged). 



No. 3,152, A. N. S. P., cotype (type) of H. procne Cope. Conestoga. 

 tributary of the Sasquehanna (Stauffer). Also Nos. 3,153 to 3,162, 

 same data. 



Head 3 J to 4\; depth 3f to 5^; D. iii, 7, i, rarely iii, 6, i; A. iii, 

 6, I, rarely iii, 7, i or iii, 5, i; scales usually 33, frequently 32, often 

 34, occasionally 35, seldom 31, rarely 36 + usually 2, occasionally 

 3; usually 6 scales, occasionally 5, above 1. 1.; 4 scales below 1. 1.; 

 13 pre<lorsal scales usually, often 12 or 14, seldom 15, rarely 16; 

 snout 3| to 4 in head; eye 2^ to 3J; maxillary 3 to 3J; interorbital 

 2^ to 3J^; teeth 4-4, rarely 5-4. Body elongate, compressed, rather 

 slender, caudal pe<luncle long, constricted. Head moderate. Muzzle 

 short. Eye circular, little high. Mouth oblique. Jaws even. 

 Rakers 2 + 5 short weak points. Scales well expose<l. L. 1. complete, 

 little decurved at first. Dorsal origin midway between snout tip and 

 caudal base. Anal inserted well behind dorsal ba.se. Caudal long, 

 forked, lobes pointed. Portoral j to vonlral, latter inserted little 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. o33 



before doixal origin, reaches vent. Color above pale bro\vni.><h. Dark 

 lateral band overlaid with grayish, ^fetlian dark streak down back. 

 Sides and below silvered. Fins pale brownish. Iris silveiy, crossed 

 by dark lateral band. Lei:\gth If? to 2\^ inches. Many examples, 

 including the above cotypes: from the North East Creek headwaters 

 near Nottingham (Chester Co.) : Susquehanna R. basin in the Pequea 

 Creek at Paradise and in the Cocalico Creek at Swamp Bridge, Witmer's 

 Mills and run near Blainsport (Lancaster Co.): Delaware R. ba.'^in in 

 Darby Creek at Collingdale (Delaware Co.) ; Schuylkill R. ; Holmesburg 

 (Philadelphia Co.); Hulmeville, above Newtown, Neshaminy Falls 

 (Bucks Co.); Abrams (Montgomery- Co.). 



This species is closely related to N. bifrenatus, differing in the com- 

 plete lateral line, even in young an inch long. It is found in clear 

 streams or creeks, not too rapid, and usually about gravel bars, where 

 it associates in shoals with other species. It prefers the more upland 

 streara*:, and I have not yet found it in tide-water. The adult is 

 a beautiful httle fish, averaging about 2^ inches in length. It is sub- 

 ject to some variation. Though hardly brilliant in color, it Ls hand- 

 some, in certain lights the dark lateral band gloaming violet, blue 

 or greenish. It probably spawns in late spring and early summer. 

 It is said to be excellent bait, and good in the aquarium. I have 

 met with it only in the Susquehanna and Delaware basins. 



Notropis keimi sp. nov. Plato XXVII. 



\. rni/utjn Fowlor, .\in. Xat., XLI, 19()G, p. 59."». .MIcphoiiv R. above Port 



Alhpany, MrKean Co. (Not of Meek.) Fowler, I.e., XLI, 1907, p. 10, 



copied . 



Heatl 3|; dei)th 4^- D. iii, 0, i; A. iii, 7. i; V. i. 11; \'. i, 7; 

 scales 37 + about 3; 5 scales above 1. 1.; 3 scales below 1. 1.; lo pre- 

 dorsal scales; head width 1} its length; head depth as occiput IJ; 

 snout 3i; eye 3§; maxillary 3; mandible 2J; interorbitai 3|; first 

 branched dorsal ray 1^; fiivt brancluMl anal ray 1^; lea'^t depth caudal 

 peduncle 3i'o; lower caudal lobe trifle longer than hcail, about space 

 equal to pupil diameter; pectoral If; ventral IJ. 



Body elongate, slender, compressed, edges rather broadly convex, 

 profiles similarly tapering from greatest depth at chjrsal origin. Caudal 

 pe<luncle slender, compresse<l, least depth 25f its length. 



Head rather large, elongate, cotnpressed, rather (lattcntHl sides not 

 convergent below, upper profile little more incline<l than lower. 

 Muzzle obtuse. Snout obtuse, surface and profile convex, length about 

 § its width. Eye large, close to upper profile, trifie before middle 

 head length, rather ellip.soid or trifle lunger than deep. .Mouth inferior, 




534 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC, 



rather large, jaws about even. Maxillaiy large, rather exposed, to 

 front eye margin, scarcely beyond. Preniaxillarie.s protractile. Man- 

 dible rather broad, depressed, rami well elevated inside mouth. Lips 

 rather firm, little fleshj^ rather narrow. No barbel. Jaw etlges tough, 

 rather firm, though not e-specially trenchant. Tongue small, thick, 

 flesiiy. not free in mouth. Nostrils large, together, superolateral on 

 snout to upper front pupil margin, posterior exposed in crescent, much 

 larger. Interorbital broad, flattene<l, scarcely elevated convoxly over 

 eye. Preorbital elongate, greatest width about j its length, latter 

 If in horizontal eye. Other suborbitals all narrow. Posterior pre- 

 opercle margin straight, slightly inclined posteriorly. 



Gill-opening forward about opposite posterior preopercle margin. 

 Rakers iii, 2 + 2 short weak blunt stumps, much shorter than fila- 

 ments. Latter about half of horizontal eye. Pseudobranchiie large, 

 little shorter than filaments. Isthmus broad, level, least width about 

 H in horizontal eye. Teeth 1, 4-4, 1, rather conic, hooked, with 

 grinding surfaces. 



Scales large, cycloid, disposed in longitudinal series parallel with 

 1. 1., rather broadly exposed or coloration producing vertical rhombs, 

 each with many very minute obsolete radiating striie. of about uniform 

 size, and a few small ones crowded on caudal base. Small rounde<l 

 adnate scaly flap in ventral axil, about ^ of fin. Iv. 1. continuous, 

 little decurved anteriorly, and ascending behind doi-sal midway along 

 caudal peduncle side. Tubes simple, each well exposed, or after firet 

 5 extending all way to each scale edge. 



Dorsal origin midway between snout tip and caudal base, graduated 

 down from highest or first branched ray, depressed fin about 7 to caudal 

 base. Anal origin inserted just after doreal base, graduated down 

 from first branched or longest ray, fin base 1-^ its depressed length. 

 Caudal long, deei)ly forked, lol^es rather long, pointed, lower nuich 

 longer. Pectoral rounded, uj)permost rays longest, fin al)out j\ to 

 ventral. I^atter in.serte<l trifle before doi-sal origin, readies anal. 

 \'ent close to anal. 



Color in alcohol fa<led but little from that descriluHl below, when 

 fre«h. 



Color when fro»<h rather clear dull oHvaceo\is-l)i'ou n ;il)ove, margin 

 of each scale dasky till low as 1. 1. at least, and ixodncing a network 

 of diamonds f)r rhombs in appearance. Head dusky-brown above, and 

 this forming int^) u me<lian dusky (loi-sal line. Side of body more or 

 lefts Hilvered. Ix)wer surface of head and body mostly tran.slucent 

 whitish. Iris bright silvery, slightly dusky above. Jaws pale or tran.s- 




1038.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53') 



lucent, upper slightly brownish. Costal region silvery, merging into 

 plumbeous or grayish longitudinal streak along caudal peduncle side. 

 Each scale of 1. 1. with a number of duskj'-brown points along tubes. 

 Doi-sal and caudal pale transparent grayish-diLsky, other fins paler. 

 Length 2y\ inches. 



Type, Xo. 31,126, A. N. S. P. Tributary of the Allegheny River 

 above (south of) Port Allegany, McKean County. August of 1904. 

 T. I). Keim and H. W. Fowler. 



Head 3 J to 3J; depth 4 J to 5; D. usually iii, 0, i, rarely iii. 7, i; 

 A. usually iii, 7, i, rarely iii, 6, i ; scales 33 to 37, iLSually about 33 + 

 2; scales alcove 1. 1. usually 6, rareh' 5; scales below 1. 1. 4; predoi-sal 

 scales usually 16. sometimes 15; snout 3J to 3 J in head; eye 3 to 3yV; 

 maxillary 3j\ to 3^; interorbital 2 J to 2|; teeth 1, 4-4, 1. Length 

 ly^ to 1}^ inches. Tributary of the Allegheny R. at Cole Grove, 

 .AIcKean Co. July 23, 1899. S. P. G. Lindsay and H. W. Fowler. 

 Nos. 24,045 to 24,047, A. N. S. P., paratypes. 



This species seems to be mast closely related to A'^. hudsonius, but 

 differs in the larger and more slender caudal peduncle, different 

 physiognomy, and Cijloration. It diffei-s from X. (hliciosus and N. 

 hoops in the same characters, besides others, such as the eye and fin 

 rays. It differs from A'', arinmmus, N. scabriccps, N. jcjunus and allicxl 

 species, in the fewer pharyngeal teeth, and other charactei*s in com- 

 bination, when the proper extent of variation is allowe<l. It may, 

 therefore, be considered a member of the subgenus Iliulsonius. 



Only the type was obtained at Port Allegany. At the type locality 

 the stream was of clear cokl water, flowing rather rapidly over a shal- 

 low place of considerable extent, and with a bottom of small stones 

 and pebbles. The fish was rather shy, and though several others 

 were seen at the same time, the one secured was rather difficult to 

 capture. They all seeme<l to lurk about the bank-s, under large 

 stones, or in the deeper places, and were (juite agile in their movements. 

 Cottus gracilis anil Scrnotilus atromaculatus were found in the same 

 places, the latter especially abundant. 



At Cole (Jrove several small examples were taken some years pre- 

 viously. They were all found in pools, associate«l with Kxotjlossum 

 nuixiUiiu/ua ami Lcuciscua doiujntus. In coloration they did not seem 

 to differ much from the tyi)e. their caudal lobes being about ecjual. 



(.\amed for my friend, Mr. Thomas 1). Keim, who assisted me in 

 procuring the type, besides many interesting local collections of fishes 

 for tl.e Aca<lemy.) 




536 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Notropis hndsonius (Clinton). 



Head 4f; depth 4|; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 7, i; scales 37 + 1; scales 

 above 1. 1. 5; scales below 1. 1. 5; predoi-sal scales 15; snout 3^ in head ; 

 eye 3J; interorbital 3^; teeth 2, 4-4, 1? Body compressed. Head 

 small, compressed. Snout broadly convex, length f its width. Ej'e 

 high. Mouth large, well inclined. Maxillary to eye. Mandible 

 includetl. Interorbital depressed. Rakers 3 + 5 short firm points. 

 Scales well exposed. L. 1. almost straight, slightly decurved, complete. 

 Dorsal origin about midway between posterior nostril and caudal base. 

 Anal rather close behind dorsal base. Caudal forked, lobes pointed, 

 equal. Pectoral f to ventral, latter inserted little before doi-sal origin, 

 ^ to anal. Color pale brownish above, below white. Broad silvery 

 banil along side. Black spot at caudal base. Iris silvery-white. 

 Length 2| inches. Lake Erie at Erie (Erie Co.). 



This fish, closely related to the next, occurs only west of the Alle- 

 ghanies. It is characterized chiefly by the ever present jet-black 

 caudal spot. It is said to reach 10 inches in length, and not frequent 

 small streams. Desirable as a bait minnow. 

 Notropii hudsonias amarus (Girard). 



Head 33 to 4^; depth 3f to 5; D. iii, 7, i, rarely iii, 8, i; A. iii, 

 7, I, rarely iii, 8, i; scales usually 35 or 36, frequently 34 or 37, occa- 

 sionally 33, 38 or 39, rarely 31, 40 or 42 + usually 2, rarely 1 or 3; 

 usually 6 scales, seldom 5, rarely 7, above 1. 1. ; usually 5 scales, seldom 

 4, rarely 6, below 1. 1.; usually 15, frequently 14, often 16, seldom 13, 

 rarely 17 or 22, predorsal scales; snout 3 to 3^ in head; eye 2J to 3f ; 

 maxillary 2 J to 3f; interorbital 2\ to 3j\; teeth usually 1, 4-4, 1, 

 frequently 2, 4-4, 2 or 2, 4-4, 1 or 1, 4-4, 2, rarely 0, 4-4, 1 or 2. 4-4, 



or 2, 4-3, or 1, 4-4, or 0, 4-4, 0. Body compressed, rather robust. 

 HemI rather broad, compressed. Snout convex, length | its width. 

 Eye little elongate, rounded. Mouth somewhat oblique. Jaws about 

 even. Maxillary to hind nostril. Interorbital convex, middle flat- 

 tened. Rakers 2 + 5 short weak points. Scales well exposed. L. 1. 

 complete, little dccurval, midway along caudal peduncle side. Doi-sal 

 insertefl little nearer snout tip than caudal base. Anal inserted little 

 behind dorsal hayo. Caudal forked, lobes pointed. Pectoral about 



1 to ventral, latter iaserted slightly before or opposite doi'sal origin, 

 reaches ^ to anal. Color pale olivaceou.s-brown largely. Scale edges 

 on back duste<l darker. liroad silvery-while lateral band from eye 

 to caudal, margin al)ove on trunk behind k'a<len. Caudal spot faint 

 or absent. Iris silvery- white. I^ength 2yV to 5^^ inches. Many 

 examples: from the Delaware H. hjisin, in Black Horse Run niid 




190S.] NATURAL SCIKXCE3 OF PHILADELPHIA. 537 



first tributary below ^Mill Run, Ring's Run (Chester Co.); Holmesburg, 

 Torresdale (Philadelphia Co.); Hulmcville, Neshaminy Falls, Bristol 

 (Bucks Co.); Dingman's Ferry (Pike Co.): Susquehanna R. basin, 

 Pequea Creek at Paradise, Cocalico Creek near Denver anfl at Wit- 

 mer's Mills (Lancaster Co.). 



A very abundant minnow in the lower Delaware and Susquehanna 

 basins. It is usually found in the larger creeks and rivers, and readily 

 takes a hook. It is good as bait and though said to reach 8 inches in 

 length, it is seldom that examples are met with Over 4 or 5 inches, 

 thus being too small as a rule to use as pan fish. I have never seen 

 any over 6 inches. It is distinguished from the preceding chiefly 

 by the very faint or pale caudal spot, though in the young it is always 

 somewhat in evidence. Young examples also have the lateral line 

 incomplete, only as a few tubes at the beginning of its course. It 

 usually occurs in schools and while more a feature of open rivers, both 

 at the head of tide and above, it does occur, contrary to the statements 

 of some writers, in our smaller streams or runs. It is also subject to 

 C(jasiderable variation in structure, though the coloration remains 

 about the same througiiout the season, there evidently being no gaudy 

 rmptial-dress. 



Notropis whipplii (Girunl). 



Head 3^ to 4}; depth 3^ to 43; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 7. i, rarely iii, 

 8, I ; scales usually 38, sometimes 36, 37 or 39, rarely 35 + usually 2, 

 frequently 3; asually 7 scales, frequently 6, above 1. 1.; iisually 4 

 scale's, frequently 5 below 1. 1.; prefloi-sal scalo.s usually 17, frequently 

 16, rarely 15, 18. or 19; snout 3 to 3i in head; eye 3\ to 4j; maxillary 

 3 to 3J; interorbital 2^ to 2J; teeth 1, 4-4, 1. ]i(xly moderately 

 slemler, compressed, profiles similar. Head pointeil, compressed. 

 Snout convex, length | its width. Eye small, little longer than deep, 

 rather high. Maxillar}' not quite to eye. Mouth moderate, inclined. 

 Mandible inchuled. Interorbital broadly convex. Rakei's 3 + 8, 

 slender, pointed, short. Scales narrowly imbricatetl. I>. 1. complete, 

 (lecurved, little low along caudal peduncle side. Dorsal origin trifle 

 lU'aror front nostril than caudal base. Anal origin slightly behind 

 dorsal base. Caudal well forktnl, slender lob(>s pointed, equal. Pec- 

 toral about f to ventral, latter iasertetl well before dorsal, reaches 

 vent. Color olivaceous on back, each scale dusky-edge<l. Iris silver}'- 

 white. Sides bluish silvery-white, below white. Satin-white ends 

 to fias of spring males. Black spot on dorsal behind middle 

 al)ove, equals eye. variable, less conspicuous in female and young. 

 I'ront and head minutrlv f nbiTculatc in spring nuilcs. Length 2| 




53S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



to 3^ inches. Many examples, from Kiskiminitas and Youghiogheny 

 Rivers, and Erie (Erie Co.). 



Found in the clear watere of the Ohio valley ami Lake Eric. It is 

 a beautiful little fish, reaching 4 inches in length. At all times it is 

 largely bluish-silvery in general color. A good bait minnow. It 

 greatly resembles its eastern relative. 



Notropis whipplii analostanus (Girard). 



Head 3 J to 4^; depth 3^ to 4J; D. iii, 7, i; A. usually iii, 8. i, 

 occa.^ionally iii, 7, i, seldom iii, 9, i, rarely iii, 6, i; scales usually 

 34, frequently 32 or 33, often 35, 31 or 30, occasionally 36, seldom 

 37 or 39, rarely 38, 28 or 27 + iLsually 2, often 3; usually 6 scales, 

 seldom 5 or 7, above 1. 1. ; iLSually 4 scales, rarely 5, below 1. 1. ; pre- 

 <lorsal scales usually 14 or 15, frequently 13 or 16, seldom 17, rarely 

 12 or 11 ; snout 3 to 4 in head ; eye 2^ to 4^ ; maxillary 2? to 4i ; inter- 

 orbital 2i to 3; teeth 1, 4—4, 1. Body moderately slender, usually 

 rather deep in adult males, compressed, profiles similar. Head 

 pointed, compressed. Snout conic, about long as wide. Eye small, 

 little longer than deep, rather high. Mouth moderate, inclined. 

 Mandible included, Interorbital broadly convex. Rakere 2 + 7 

 short points. Scales narrowly imbricated. L. 1. complete, decurved, 

 low along caudal peduncle side. Doi-sal origin midway between eye 

 front and caudal base. Anal inserted just behind doi*sal base. Caudal 

 forked, lobes equal. Pectoral | to ventral, latter inserted trifle before 

 dorsal origin, fin reaches anal. Color olivaceous on back, scale edges 

 dusky. Iris silver-white. Sides bluLsh-white, below white, all silvery. 

 Fins in spring males with satin-white bordei's. Black doi-sal s])ot 

 behind middle of fin above equals eye, variable, less evident in female 

 and young. Head above, muzzle and pretloreal region finely tuber- 

 culatc in spring males. Length 1^ to 3^^ inches. A very large scries: 

 from the Delaware R. basin at Kcnnett Scjuare, Ring's Run (Chester 

 Co.); Brandywine Sunmiit, Concordville, Markam, CoUingdale (Dela- 

 ware Co.); Barren Hill, Abrams (Montgomery Co.); Holmesburg, 

 TorrewJale (I'hiladelphia Co.); C(jrnwells, Hulmeviile, Little Nesham- 

 iny Creek, Neshaminy Falls, near Langhorne, Bristol, Emilie (Bucks 

 Co.); Dingman's Ferry (Pike Co.): Suscjuehanna R. bjisin at Para- 

 dise, Concstoga Creek, Trout and Akron Runs at lOphrala, Cocalico 

 Creek near Denver, Swamj) liridge, Witmer's Mills jiml niii iicai- 

 Blaiaspfjrt (Lancaster Co.); York F\n*nace (^'ork Co.). 



The silver fin is the most al)undant of its genus in the Dchiwarc, 

 contrary to the impression of some writers. It prefers clear water, 

 and usually the smaller streams and creeks, though often found in 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 539 



tide-water if not brackish. During the late spring and on through the 

 early summer the males assume high coloration. Brilliant pigment 

 of satin-white color is found about the ends of all their fins, the rays 

 of which become somewhat enlarged or swollen, and thus earning for 

 the fish the very appropriate name of silver fin. Tubercles of small 

 size also appear on the upper surface of the body, though disappearing 

 by late summer, along with the brilliant coloring. The females are 

 but rarely tuberculous, and never so brilliant as the males. The 

 yoimg are not brilliantly colored, but are usually to be distinguished 

 by their reticulatetl scale pattern being matle up of narrowly imbri- 

 cated scales, though the lateral line is complete. The silver fin some- 

 times collects in large shoals of possibly a thousand or more individuals, 

 and associates sometimes with other small fish. They are equally 

 active throughout the year, in certain localities, and may sometimes 

 be found under the ice. They will usually bite at a small worm or 

 other bait on a small minnow-hook, though of no use a.s food on account 

 of their small size, the largest I know of not exceeding 4 inches. They 

 are good bait and live well in the aquarium. Only found in the Dela- 

 ware and Susquehanna basins. Closely x'clated to iV. whippln, and 

 differing in the deeper body and larger scales. 

 Notropis oornatai(Mitchill). 



Head 3} to 5; depth 3 to 4^; D. usually iii, 7, i, rarely iii. S. i or 

 iii, G. i; A. usually iii, 8, i, seldom iii, 9, i, rarely iii, 7, i; scales 

 usually about 30, freciuently 31, 32, 33, 34, 35 and 36, often 37 to 40 

 and 27 to 29, rarely 25, 26, 41 or 44 + usually 3, frequently 2. rarely 4 ; 

 scales above 1. 1. usually S, frequently 7, occa'^ionaiiy '.>, rarely 6 or 7; 

 scales below 1. 1. usually 5, seldom 4 or 6, rarely 7; predorsal scales 

 usually 17 or IS, frecpiently 15, 16, 19 or 20, occasionally 14, sometinu^s 

 21 or 22, .seldom 23 to 25, rarely 12, 13, 26 or 27; snout '1\ to 4 in head ; 

 eye 2J to 4i; nuixillary 2^ to 4; interorbital 2^ to ^^, teeth 2, 4-4, 2 

 usually, rarely 2, 4-4, 1. Body compres.se<l, rather deep, predorsal 

 swollen, form more elongate in young. Head compressed, heavy. 

 Muzzle obtuse. Snout convex, length about ^ it« width. Eye small, 

 large in young, circular, rather high. Mouth moderate, little incline*!. 

 Jaws about efpial. .Maxillary to eye in adult. Interorbital well 

 convex. Ilakers 2 4-8 short finn points. Predorsal scales usually 

 small and crowde«l and narrowly imbricate*!, or elongated v«'rtically, 

 on costal region. L. I. complete, well de('urve<l, about midway along 

 caudal |)e<luncle side. Dorsal origin about midway between front 

 nostril and cau<lal base. Anal origin trifle behind dorsal base. Caudal 

 forke<l. Pectoral about k to ventral. Neutral inserteii little before 




540 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC, 



dorsal, reaches anal. Color above dark bluish-olive, scale edges and 

 bases dusky. Sides and below silvery-white, tinged rosy in spring 

 males. Golden streak along upper side or back, most conspicuous 

 as seen from above when fish swims in the water. Dusky streak 

 behind gill-opening. Dorsal dusky, other fins plain, all edged broadly 

 bright vermilion in spring males. Red on fins pale or absent in females 

 or young. Muzzle and head above in spring males tuberculous. 

 Iris silvery, golden in spring males. Length ly\ to 5i% inches. Very 

 many examples: from the Delaware R. basin at Kennett Square, 

 Ring's Run, Black Horse Run and first tributary below, Mill Run, 

 Willistown Barrens (Chester Co.); Collar Brook, Whetstone Run, 

 Langford's Run, Trout Run, Lewis's Run, jMarkam, Wawa (Delaware 

 Co.); Schuylkill R. ; Abrams (Montgomery Co.); Holmesburg, Bustle- 

 ton. Torresdale (Philadelphia Co.); Cornwells, Hulmeville, Nesharainy 

 Falls, Little Neshaminy Creek, Newtown, Bristol, near Langhorne 

 (Bucks Co.); Dingman's Ferry (Pike Co.): Susquehanna R. basin 

 at Emporium (Cameron Co.); Muncy (Lj'-coming Co.); Carlisle (Cum- 

 berland Co.); Paradise, near Denver, Swamp Bridge, Trout Run near 

 Ephrata (Lancaster Co.); Meshoppen (Elk Co.): Port Allegany and 

 Cole Grove (McKean Co.): Newcastle (Lawrence Co.): Kiskimi- 

 nitas R. 



Like the silver fin this is a most abundant species. It often asso- 

 ciates with this, its smaller relative, especially when young. The 

 bree< ling-dress of the spring male is veiy gorgeous, and is much more 

 brightly colored than that of the silver fin. The head above, and pre- 

 dorsal region, are much more' coarsely tuberculate, and the former, 

 together with mast of the fin-rays, becomes adipose-like or with a 

 swollen appearance. The red fin has an interesting habit of resorting 

 to clear shallows in the spawning season, which occui-s about Phila- 

 delphia from \&ie April to early summer. Schools of probably several 

 hvmdred of the brilliantly-colored males may be found, closely packed 

 together as a mass of crimson and purple, in these places. The females 

 did not seem to take part in these gatherings, or at least I was unable 

 to identify any in the several schools captured. From this it appears 

 that they precede the males to the spawning grounds. Sometimes 

 the males are herded in clear riffles, but usually where there is a sandy 

 or clear pebble bottom. The females, besides being paler in (•j)lor, lack 

 the tubercles usually. The young are without any }\h\, though gener- 

 ally with pale blui.sh or violet reflections on their sides, and only in 

 the very young Is the lateral line incomplete. The largest examples 

 e.xamincd were 7^ inches long, and I doubt if they seldom exceed 8 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 541 



inches. The re<^l fin is frequently found in rock pools about cascades, 

 and seems perfectly at home in turbulent foamy water. They are 

 frequently angled on a small hook, and though palatable as a pan fish 

 are usually too small to be of any value. As bait they are excellent. 

 It occurs usually in the smaller streams, being entirely distributed over 

 our region. I have not yet taken it in tide-water. 

 Notropis ohalybsens (Cope).' 



Head '.^ to 4; depth 3^ to 4J; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 7. i. rarely iii, 

 8. i; scales usually 30, frequently 31, often 29, 32, 33, 34, 35, rarely 

 28, 36 or 39 4- usually 2. seldom 3, rarely 1 ; scales above 1. 1. usually 

 6, occasionally 7, rarely 5; scales below 1. 1. asually 4, seklom 3, rarely 

 5; predorsal scales usually 15, frequently 14, 16 or 17, rarely 13 or 18; 

 snout 3 to 4^ in head; eye 2\ to 3}; maxillary 2^ to 3^; interorbital 

 2f to 3; teeth 2, 4-4, 2. Botly well compresse<l, heaxy fonvard. 

 Caudal peduncle slender. Head compressed. Snout convex, length 

 J its width. Eye rounded, high. Mouth incline<l, mandible slightly 

 protruding. Ma.villary to eye. Interorbital broadly convex. Rakers 

 3 + 6 short slender points. Scales well exposed. Predorsal scales 

 slightly smaller. L. 1. complete in adults, incomplete in young. 

 Dorsal origin about midway between front nostril and caudal base. 

 Anal inserted little behind dorsal base. Caudal forked. Pectoral 

 I to ventral, latter inserte<l trifle before dorsal origin, fin reaches vent. 

 Color dark brown, scales dark-edged on back. Black lateral band from 

 snout to caudal base, purple, blue or green in some lights, and ending 

 in black cau<lal blotch. Just over this a light brownish streak and 

 within none of scales dark-e<lge<l like back al)ove. Below wliitish. 

 Li'iigth 1| to 2y\ inches. Many examples from the Delaware R. basin 

 in .Mill Creek at Bristol and the Neshaminy Creek at Xeshaminy I'ails 

 (Bucks Co.). 



This is a very brilliant little fish in full brceding-tlress. the lower 

 surface of the lunly and i>ale area of brown a<ljoining the black lateral 

 band being rich orange. Thi.s is only the case with the male, which is 

 also covered with minute tubercles rather sparsely over the upper 

 surface of the head, though much larger on prcorbital and mandible. 

 All of pre<lorsal scalcw edge<l rather coarsely with corrugations or 

 tuljercU*. The females lack the tulK'rcles, and may easily bo known 

 at this time by their swollen abdoinen-s. due to being gravid with ova. 

 They all ansociat^? with other small fishes in rather still or (juiet water, 

 usually in large schools of several hundre*! individuals, and arc largely 



* tV)po includes .V. acabricepa (Cope) from our Unuts, in western Pennsylvania, 



liv|M>tlu'ticnlIy 




542 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



preyed on by the conimon pike (Esox americaniis). When a scliool 

 is fouml in such a place the individuals are invariably all headed in 

 one direction, and moving as if by one impulse when disturbed. Some- 

 times, however, they flash a little of their silvery sides as they move 

 about. ^Vhon greatly agitatal they do not seem to swim far, but soon 

 form into another school further on. I have only met with them in the 

 lower Delaware valley. 



Notropis jejunus (Forbes). 



Recorded from the Monongahela by Evermann and BoUnian. 1 

 have no material. 



Notropis atherinoides Hafinesque. 



Heatl 4 J to 4^; depth 5|- to 5^; D. iii, 7, i; A. usually iii, 9, i. 

 occasionally iii, 10, i; scales usually about 40, sometimes 38 or 34 4- 

 usually 2, sometimes 3; scal&s above 1. 1. usually 6, occasionally 7: 

 scales below 1. 1. 4; predorsal scales IG to 19; snout 3^ to 3J in head; 

 eye 3; maxillary 2y\ to 3f ; interorbital 2 J to 3^; teeth 2, 4-4, 2. 

 Body compressed, elongate, slender. Head compressed, blunt". Snout 

 conic, length I its width. Eye rounded. Mouth rather small, inclined, 

 jaws about even. Maxillary not quite to eye. Interorbital evenly 

 convex. Rakers 2 + 7 rather weak points. Scales rather narrowly 

 imbricated along middle of side. L. 1. decurved, complete. Doi-sal 

 origin about midway between eye center and caudal base. Anal origin 

 trifle i)ohind dorsal base. Caudal forked. Pectoral | to ventral. 

 Ventral iaserted well before' d(jrsal. Color transparent greenish above. 

 Dark streak down back metlianly. Sides bright silvery-white. Spring 

 males with rcjsy snout. Length 2^ to 4 inches. Two examples from 

 the Beaver R. and 2 from Lake Erie at Erie (Erie Co.). 



This handsome species is said to reach 6 inches in length. It occui-s 

 in rivei-s and lakes west of the Alleghanies, usually in schools, and in 

 still water. 



Ifotropii rubrifrom (f'ope). 



AlhitrnuH rubrijronK C'opj', Proc. Acad. Nat. Sd. Phila., ISC'), p. 85. Kiski- 

 iiiinitafl River. 



IIca<l 31; depth 4g; 1). iii, 7, i; A. iii, S, i; I', i, 13?; V. i, 7; 

 scaleH 36 -f 3; scales above 1. I. 7; scales below 1. 1. 1 ; predorsal scales 

 18; hoa<l width 2^^ its length; head depth at occiput 1§; man(lil)le 2J; 

 depres.'<(!<l dorsal length 1 J; anal length lif; least depth caudal peduncle 

 2j^oI pectoral 1§; ventral Ij^^; snout 3^ in head from upper juw tip; 

 eye 3,'o; maxillary '2\; interorbital 3,Vi- 



Ho<iy elongate, compn!Sse<l, de<'pest at ventnil oiigiii, profiles sinii- 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 543 



larly convex, etlges rounded. Caudal peduncle compre.«;.sed , rather 

 slender, least depth 2^ its length. 



Head compressed, rather pointed, flattened sides rather convergent 

 below, profiles similar, lower little more evenly and convexly inclined. 

 Snout rather conic, surface convex, length about equals its width. 

 Eye rounded, little high, near first ^ in head. Mouth moderate, little 

 inclined, jaw edges rather firm. Premaxillaries protractile. Maxil- 

 lary slender, to eye front. Lips rather thin. Mandible depressed, 

 rami not elevated inside rpouth. Tongue depressed, fleshy, not free. 

 Nostrils together on side of snout, crescentic posterior larger. Inter- 

 orbital broadly convex. Preorl)ital little ovoid, width about f itij 

 length, latter 1^ in eye. Pi-eorbital width about equals pupil. Posterior 

 preopcrcle margin nearly vertical. 



Gill-opening forward little before hind eye margin, not quite to pupil. 

 Rakers about 2 + 6? short weak points, longest i of filaments, latter 

 1^ in eye. P.seudobranchia? large, little Smaller than filaments. Istii- 

 mus width at front 1| in pupil. 



Scales in series pai'allel with 1.1., all mostly broadly exposed, smaller 

 on brea'^t and preventral, each with several striic. Ventral axil with 

 point^nl scaly flap, 5 in deprexscnl fin. L. 1. complete, decurved at 

 greatest depth to lowest third. Tubes simple, each well over exposed 

 scale not cpiite to e<lge. 



Dorsal origin midway between hind eye margin and caudal base, 

 fin highest anteriorly, depressed 1^^ to caudal base. Anal origin just 

 behind dorsal base, fin highest anteriorly, depressetl 2 to caudal base, 

 ('autlal (laniag(Hl. I'ectoral rather long, upper rays longest, fin j 

 to ventral. Ventral inserted little before dorsal, depressed f to anal. 

 Vent close before anal. 



Color in alcohol dull brownish generally, back but little darker than 

 rest of general color. Sides and l)elow silvery to whitish. Fins pale 

 brownish. Iris silvery. 



Ix?ngth 2\ inches (caudal damage*!). 



No. 4,035, A. N. S. P., cotype (type) of -t. rubrijrons Cope. Kiski- 

 minitas River (Cope). 



Also Nos. 4,030 to 4,039, same data, in poor preservation, showing: 

 Hcmi 4 to 4^; depth 4} to 4J; I), iii, 7. i; A. iii, 9, i or iii, 10. i; 

 scales 30 to 37 + 2; scaler above 1. I. or 7; scales below I. I. 4; pn- 

 dorsal scales 17 to 20; snout 3^'^ to 3^ in hea<l; eye W^^ to 3i; maxil- 

 lary 2^ to 21; intcrorbital 2i to 3; t<?eth 2, 4-4, 2; length 2yV to 2\ 

 inches. 



Found in rl««ar strcHins west of the .MU'irhanii's. In life this fish i.s 




544 PROCEEDINGS OF THK ACADEMY OF [l^^f-j 



olivaceous in color, sides and lower surface silvery- white. Spring 

 males have the forehead, side of head and dorsal base rosy-red, and the 

 snout tuberculous. Alonj; base of anal row of dark specks, and dark 

 streak down middle of back. Said to reach 2J inches. 



Notropis photogenis (Cope). 



SqHaliits photogenis Cope, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Pliila., IsfU. p. 2S0. 

 Yoiighiogheny River, Pennsylvania. 



Head 4; depth about 5 (emaciated); D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 8?; P. 

 i, 12?; ^^ i, 7; scales about 30? (squamation injured) + 2; scales 

 above 1. 1. 6; scales below 1. 1. 4; predorsal scales 16; head width lyV 

 its length; head depth at occiput 1^; snout 3J; eye 3^; maxillary 3^; 

 interorbital 3; first branched dorsal ra}^ If; anal ray H; least depth 

 of caudal peduncle 3; upper caudal lobe 1; pectoral 1:1^; ventral IJ. 



Body elongated, compressed, edges apparently rounded, profiles 

 similar, deepest at dorsal origin. Caudal peduncle compressed, least 

 depth 2^ its length. 



Head compressed, flattene<l sides convergent below, profiles similar. 

 Snout convex, length | its width. Eye large, little longer than deep, 

 high, near first y in head. Mouth inclined, moderate, jaw edges firm. 

 Premaxillaries protractile. Maxillary slender, to eye front. Man- 

 dible depressed, rami well elevated inside mouth, symphysis slightly 

 protruding in front when mouth closes. Lips rather thin. Tongue 

 fle?hy, depressed, rather far back. Nostrils together on snout side 

 above near eye, posterior larger. Interorbital broadly convex. Pre- 

 orbital width about J its length, latter H in eye. Postorbital width 

 equals pupil, other suborbitals narrow. 



Gill-opening forward to last third in head. Rakei-s 2 + 7 weak 

 points, longest about 4 in filaments, latter 2J in eye. Pseud obranchise 

 little shorter than filaments. Isthmus width about 1 J in pupil, surface 

 flattened. Teeth 2, 4-4, 2, hooke<l, with slight grinding-surface. 



Scales about imiform. in longitudinal scries parallel with 1. 1., little 

 smaller on breast. No evident axillary ventral scale. L. 1. continu- 

 ous, well decurvetl, ascending rather low along caudal peduncle side. 

 Tubes simple, well over scales, though not finite to margias. 



Dorsal origin midway between front nostril and caudal base, grad- 

 uated down from first branched ray or longest, depresse<l ^ to caudal 

 l)ase. Anal origin triflo behind dorsal base, first branched ray highest 

 depressed f to caudal base. Caudal well forke<l, pointed lobes about 

 ♦•qual. Pectoral j to ventral, upper rays longest. Ventral insert^nl 

 little before dorsal, rearhitig anal? 



C<»lor in alcohol plain pale brownish geMcnilly. of niiifonii lint. Iris 

 with slight silvery tinge. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 545 



Length IJ inches. 



No. 22.280. A. N. S. P., cotype (type) of S. pholoqmis CVjpe. 

 Youghiogheny River (Cope), Pa. 



.\lso No. 22,281, same data, showing: Head 3*; depth 5: \). iii, 

 7. i; A. iii. 8?; scales 33? + 3?; scales above 1. 1. 6: scales helow 

 I. 1. 4; preiloi-sal scales 14?; snout 3^ in head; eye 2|; maxillary 3^; 

 interorbital 3; length \W inches. Both examples in poor preservation. 



Found in streams west of the Alleghanies and said to reach 3 inches 

 in length. 



Notropis photogenis amcenus (Abbott).' 



Head 3* to A\; depth 4 J to 5J; D. u.sually iii, 7, i. rarel}'' iii. 8, i; 

 A. iLsually iii, 10, i, occasionally iii, 9, i, rarely iii, 11, i; scales 

 usually about 38, though ranging from 31 to 40 + usually 2, frequently 

 3, rarely 1; scales above 1. 1. usually 7, seldom 6 or 8; scales below 

 I. 1. 4; predorsal scales usually 18 to 21, .seldom 17. 22, 23 or 24; .^nout 

 3 to 3f in head; eye 2 J to 3J; maxillary 2^ to 3^; interorbital 2f to 

 3yVj teeth 2, 4-4, 2. Body compres.sed, slender. Head compress(^l. 

 Snout convex, length \ its width. Eye rounded, rather high. Mouth 

 well incline<l, moderate, mandible included evenly. Maxillaiy to eye. 

 Int^'rorbital broa<lly convex. Rakers 2 + 6 short weak points. 

 Scales rather broadly expo.se<l, crowded on pro<lorsal region. L. 1. 

 complete, decurvetl about lowest third. Dorsal origin midway between 

 eye and caudal base. Anal origin below last doival ray base. Caudal 

 long, deeply forked. Pectoral ^ to ventral. Ventral inserte<l little 

 before doi-sal, fin J to anal. Color traiLslucent olive on back, side-s and 

 below silver}'-white. I>ea<.len streak along side sometimes, oflf.setting 

 color of back and belly, extending from eye to caudal, where little 

 darker. Iris silverj'-white. Length 1^ to 3J inches. Many examples : 

 from the Delaware R. basin at Holmesburg(PhihuleI|)hiaCo.); Nesham- 

 iny Falls, Hulmeville, Bristol, Kmilie (Bucks Co.); Dingman's Ferry 

 (Pike Co.): Suscjuchanna R. I)a.sin at Paradise and Swamp Bridge 

 near Denver (Lanca.ster Co.). 



Found only in the lower Delaware and Sus(iuehanna bju^iits by me. 

 It was especially al)un«lant in the Xeshaminy Creek and also occui"s 

 rather frequently in the Delaware tide-wat<'r. It is a Ix^autiful bright 

 silvery little miimow, and is said to reach 3j inches. It .seems to differ 

 from iV. photngenis chiefly in the smaller jjn^lorsal scales, I have 

 usually fouml it as.sociated with large schools of other minnows or 

 small iiKhes. 



' Cope records iV. umbratilin anlnm (Cope) from west of the .Mlegli 

 evidently liypotliotirally, »w no dcriniti* lornlity jh iniMitioru-d. 




oK) FKOCEEDI.VGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Ericymba buocata Cope." 



I'roc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Pliila., 1865, p. SS. Kiskiminitas River. 



Head 3^; depth 5; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 7. i; P. i, 14; V. i, 7; scales 

 34 + 2; scales above 1. 1. 5; scales below 1. 1. 4; predorsal scales 17; 

 head width 2 in its length; head depth at occiput If; snout 3; eye 

 3\; maxillary 4; interorbital 3^; first branched doreal ray IJ; anal ray 

 1 J ; least depth caudal peduncle 2| ; upper caudal lobe trifle over 1 ; 

 pectoral H; ventral 2. 



Body compressed, elongate, slender, back not elevated though upper 

 profile little more convex than lower, deepest at dorsal origin, edges 

 mostly rounded and only upper and lower caudal peduncle surfaces 

 with traces of median low obsolete keel. Caudal peduncle rather long, 

 compressed, least depth about 2^ its length. 



Head elongate, moderately compressed, somewliat flattened sides 

 slightly convergent above with lower surface slightly broader than 

 upper, upper profile somewhat evenly convex, more incUned than 

 straight lower one. Snout con^'ex, slightly protruding, long as wide. 

 Eye large, ellipsoid, near upper profile, center trifle before head center. 

 Mouth small, inferior, scarcely inclined, obtuse edges not firm. Pre- 

 maxillaries protractile down in front. Maxillary ratiier concealed, 

 to front nostril. J^ips fleshy. Mandible depressed, small, rami little 

 elevated iaside mouth. Tongue thick, fleshy, depressed, rather far 

 back. Nostrils together, on snout side above, freiumi last fourth in 

 snout, anterior circular, posterior crescentic. Interorbital broad, 

 slightly evenly convex. Preorbital about 1\ in eye, width about IJ. 

 Other suborbitals all much narrower, postorbitals scarcely evident. 

 I'osterior margin of preopercle concave to curve posteriori)' below. 

 External coaspicuous mucous chambers along each side of head below 

 eye and along niandiljle surface below. Upper series about 7 cells and 

 manflibular series about 9, on each side of head. 



Gill-opening forward to upper hind preopercle margin, about last 

 third in hea<l. Rakei*s 1 + 4 short firm robust ijrocesses, thick set, 

 al>out 4 in filaments, latter 1^ in eye. Pseudobranciiiie small, less 

 than half of filaments. Least isthmus width 1^ in eye, lower surface 

 l)roadly depnwsed. Teeth 1, 4-4, 1, hooked strongly at tips, without. 

 grinding surfaces but edges entire. 



Scales in scries parallel with 1. 1., mostly uniform except little smaller 

 on breast and nuHlian dorsal and ventral body-edges, striii- radiating, 

 all rather broadly exposed. Caudal base scales not smaller than 



' (>>pc inc|ti(li>H I'hriuicobinit teretulus Cope an probably occurring; in wcstera 

 Pennsylvania, thiw puwly hypothetical. 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 547 



othei-s. Ventral axil without scaly flap, though broatl scaly flap 

 l)et\veen bases of fins, its hind alge free. L. 1. complete, only decurved 

 at first till midway along body side and caudal peduncle. Tubes 

 simple, well exposed over each scale nearly to edge. 



Dorsal origin about midway between snout tip and caudal base, 

 third simple ray highest though first branched subequal, fin 2^ to 

 caudal base. Anal origin trifle after doi-sal base, third simple ray 

 longest though first branched subequal, fin 2 to caudal base. Caudal 

 tleeply forked, lobes pointed, equal. Pectoral rather broad, upper rays 

 longest, y*(f to ventral. Ventral insertetl trifle before dorsal, broadly 

 expanded, reaches vent close before anal. 



Color in alcohol dull brownish, lower surface scarcely paler, side 

 of head and streak down middle of side of trunk dull leaden-silvery. 

 Fins plain pale brownish. Iris dull brassy-brown. 



Length 2y"if inches. 



No. 6,(X)3, A. \. S. P., cotype (type) of E. buccala Cope. Kiskimini- 

 tas River, western Penasylvania (Cope). 



Also No. 6,0()4, .same data, showing: Head 3^; depth 4f ; 1). iii, 

 7, I ; A. iii, 7. i: scales 31 + 2; scales above 1. 1. 5; scales below 1. 1. 4; 

 predorsal .scales 14; snout 3 in head; eye Sj; maxillary 3i; interorbital 

 3J; third simple dorsal ray l^; anal ray 1^; caudal 1; least depth 

 caudal pe<huicle 3; pectoral I5; ventral 1 J; teeth 1, 4-4, 1 ; length 

 1} inches. 



Cope says "a narrow space from vent to opposite middle of pectorals 

 scaleless," which is not true in the above examplo.s. 



This little fish is said to reach 5 inches in length, and occurs in clear 

 streams and pt)nds west of the Alleghanies. Its color is olivaceous 

 above with silver)' sides, and spring mali!S are .said to jje without tuber- 

 cles or bright colors. There is a dark line down the middle of the back 

 and a streak of <lusky dots along the side. 



Rhiniohthyt oataraotas (Valenciennes). 



ll('Hd3it()4; (k'pth4to5i; D.iii,7,i; A.iii.G.i; scales variable, 

 41 to GS. mostly from 53 to 6G + iLsually 3, occasionally 4, rarely 2; 

 scales above 1. 1. usually 13, frecjuently 12 or 14, often 15, sometimes 

 11; scales below 1. I. usually 11, fre(|uently 10, often 9. seldom 12. 

 rarely 8; predorsal scales u.sually 27 to 31, occasionally 24 to 2G and 

 32 to 35, rarely 22, 36 or 37; snout 2J to S^o in hea<l; eye 3^ to 5§; 

 maxillar\' 2i to 3^ ; interorbital 2^ to 4§; teeth 2, 4-4, 2. Body 

 mtKlorately slender, compres-sed, rather robust forwanl. Ileatl elon- 

 gate, rather conic. Snout long as broa<l, convex, protruding l>eyond 

 iiiiiiidible alxMit 1 cyoHliaiiuMor. I\ve small in adult, large in young, 




548 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



hijrh. iiTidway in head. Mouth small, broad. ^Maxillary to hind 

 nostril, small barbel at end. Slightly convex interorbital broad. 

 R-akers 2 + 5 robust firm short points. Scales smaller anteriorly 

 on trunk. L. 1. complete, slightly decurved, nearly midway. Doi-sal 

 origin about midway between front nostril and caudal base. Anal 

 inserted little behind dorsal base. Caudal forked, lobes about equal. 

 Pectoral * to ventral, latter inserted little before dorsal, fin to vent. 

 Color olivaceous above, sometimes nearly blackish with mottled 

 appearance. No distinct dusky lateral shade in adult, more evident 

 in young. Lower surface whitish. Sometimes blackish opercle blotch . 

 Lips, cheeks and lower fins in spring males rosy-red. Iris silvery. 

 Spring males also with entire upper head, pectoral fin and trunk 

 finely tuberculate, jaws smooth. Length 1|| to SyV inches. Many 

 examples from the Delaware R. basin at Kennett Square, Mendenhall 

 and Mill Run (Chester Co.), the Susquehanna R. basin at Paradise 

 (Lancaster Co.) and Meadow Run in the Youghiogheny R. basin near 

 Ohio Pyle (Fayette Co.). 



This dace occurs in clear swift streams, usually about rapitls and 

 deep pools, in all the upland waters of the State. It is said to reach 5 

 inches in length and be good bait for bass, though rather difficult to 

 secure. I have usually found it associated with R. atroiuisus, though 

 it appears to be more active. 

 Rhinichthys atronasus (Mitchill). 



Hearl 3 to 4^; depth 3J to 5i; D. iii, 7, i, rarely iii, 6, i or iii, 8, r; 

 A. usually iii, 6, i, rarely iii, 7, i; scales usually 50 to 60, varying 

 frequently 43 to 49 and 61 to 64, rarely varying 39 to 42 and 65 to 67 4- 

 iisually 3, occasionally 2 or 4; scales above 1. 1. usually 12, Imiuentiy 

 11 or 13, seldom 10, rarely 14; scales below 1. 1. usually 8, frequently 9, 

 Keldom 7 or 10, rarely 11 ; predorsal scales usually 30 to 33, frequently 

 28, 29 or 34 to 38, seldom 25 to 27, rarely 23 and 39 to 42; snout 2^ 

 to 3i in head; eye 3 to 5^; maxillary 3 to 4; interorbital 2^ to 3^; 

 teeth 2, 4-4, 2 usually, rarely 2, 5-4, 2 or 2, 4, 1-4, 2 or 2, 4-3, 2 or 1, 

 3-4, 2. Body compressed, moderately long. Head moderate, robust, 

 broad. Snout convex, depressed, length I its widtii. Eye small in 

 a<lult, large in young, circular, high, slightly anterior. Mouth siuall, 

 inferior, snout projecting about J of eye beyond UKindihlc. .Maxillary 

 little inclined, to front nostril, ending in short l)arl)(l. Interorbital 

 broa^lly dcpres.sed. Rakei-s 3 + 4 short firm \m)\\\{s. Scales small, 

 well expose*!. L. 1. complete in a<lult , absent in young. iJoi-sal origin 

 midway between hind eye margin and caudal base. Anal origin just 

 after dorsal base. Caudal forked, lobes rounded. Pectoral \ to ven- 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. o49 



tral, latter inserted little before dorsal origin, fin to anal. Color very 

 variable, usually olivaceoiis-brown above mottled with diusky. Black 

 lateral band from snout to caudal, always pronounced in youiip. 

 Below white. Lower fins whitish to pale yellowish. In spring males 

 sometimes whole body blushed crimson or golden, lateral blackish 

 band vermilion or orange, also lower fins. Later in season dark lateral 

 band turns blackish. Spring males also with head above behind 

 nostrils minutely tuberculate. Length 1^ to 3^ inches. Very many 

 examples: from the Delaware R. basin at Kennett Square, Mendenhall, 

 lilack Hoi-sc Run, second tributary below latter, run near Stock Grange, 

 Willistown Barrens (Chester Co.); Chadd's Ford, Wawa, Whetstone 

 Rim, north branch of Langford's Run, Lewis's Run, Hunter's Run, 

 Collar Brook, CoUingdale (Delaware Co.); Wissahickon Creek, Hol- 

 mesburg, Torresdale (Thiladelphia Co.);Abrams, Hatboro (Mont- 

 gomery Co.); Cornwells, Xeshaminy Falls, Little Xeshaminy Creek, 

 Newtown, near Langhorne, Tullytown (Bucks Co.); Dingman's Ferrj' 

 (i'ike Co.): Susfjuehanna R. basin at Brooklyn (Potter Co.); Loyal- 

 sock Creek near Lopez (Sullivan Co.); Octoraro Creek at Nottingham 

 (Chester Co.) ; Paradise, Akron and Trout Runs near Ephrata, Witmer's 

 Mills and run near Blainsport (Lancaster Co.): Allegheny R., Port 

 Allegany and Cole Grove (McKean Co.); Warren (Warren Co.); 

 Youghiogheny R. and Meadow Run near Ohio Pyle (Fayette Co.); 

 Beaver R."; Kiskiminitas R. : Genesee R. at Gold and Raymonds 

 (Potter Co.): I'olomac R. basin in Cove Creek (Fulton Co.). 



This beautiful little fish is very abundant in most all clear swift 

 cold brooks in the State, especially in the mountainous regions. It is 

 variable in the extreme, and many quite striking varieties may be 

 found, even in the same brook. The so-called brown-nosed dace, from 

 our western streams, does not appear to differ in having a paler color 

 and deeper Ixxly, so far as I have examiiuKl. In fact many western 

 examples are very dark or dusky. The snout is also variable. The 

 fisii Is often fovmd greatly para.sitized with tape-worms, the abdomen 

 then being greatly swollen. It is said to be go<jd as bait. It spawns 

 in the late spring and early summer, though bright-coloreil examples 

 art' found throughout the latter .season. 

 Hybopsii diiiimilii (Kirtlaiiil).i° 



IIea<i 3Jto1}; deptli 5 to Oj ; I). iii,7, i; A. iii.C). i; scales usually 

 al)out 17. varying 32 to 50 -f- 3; scales above 1. 1. usually 6, rarely 7; 



• Ilccord«'d wroiiRly l>y me in Am. Xat., XLI, 1907, p. \\, aa R, cataracUr. 

 '• Itcnn records //. amhlopn (Hnfinesque) from tin- Uliio vjilU-y liyfKithetirully. 




550 PROCEEDIKGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



scales below 1. 1. usually 5, rarely 6; preclorsal scales usually 19 or 20. 

 rarely 17, 18, 21 or 23; snout 2^ to 3 in head; eye 2J to 3J; maxillary 

 3 J to 3^; interorbital 3 to 4; teeth 4-4. Body elongate, slender, 

 compressed. Caudal peduncle long, slender. Head long, robust, 

 little deeper than broad. Snout convex, long as broad. Eye large, 

 high, midway in head. Mouth small, inferior, upper jaw protruding 

 slightly. Maxillarj' well short of eye, ending in short barbel. Inter- 

 orbital flattened. Rakere 2 4-5 short points. Scales smaller on pre- 

 dorsal, well exposed. L. 1. complete, nearly straight. Dorsal origin 

 midway between snout tip and caudal base. Anal origin little behind 

 depresse<l dorsal tip. Caudal forked. Pectoral -f. to ventral, latter 

 inserted little behind dorsal origin, fin f to anal. Color olivaceous, 

 back rather mottled, below white. Sides bright silvery-white. Fins 

 pale, plain. Lateral bluish stripe around snout, overlaid with several 

 dusky spots. Length 2^^ to 4 inches. Twelve examples from the 

 Youghiogheny R. 



Found in the channels of the larger streanxs, creeks and lakes, west 

 of the Alleghanies. It does not appear to enter the small brooks. 

 Said to reach 6 inches in length, and though a good biter most too 

 small a-s food. Taken largely for l)ait. 

 Hjbopsis gtorerianus (Kirtland). 



HcfonifKl l)y Evermann and Bollman from the Monongahela R. 



Hybopsis kentuokiensis (Rafinesque). 



C'ertilichfhi/s micrnpngon Cope, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila.. 1S64, p. 277. 

 Concstopa Creek in Lanca,ster County. 



Head 3^; depth 4; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 6, i; scales 34 + 3; scales 

 above 1. 1. 6; scales below 1. I. 5; predorsal scales 18; head width 2 ita 

 length; head depth at occiput Ij; snout 3J; eye 3; maxillary 3; 

 interorbital 3^; first branched doi-sal ray \\\ anal ray H; least depth 

 caudal j>e<luncle 2^; lower caudal lobe 1 ; pectoral 11; ventral Ij. 

 Body mfxlerately long, compressed, profiles similar, deepest at dorsal 

 ftrigin. Caudal pfnluiicle C()mj)resse<l, least deptli 1 J its length. Head 

 compres.sed, profiles similarly convex, flattenetl sides not convergent 

 l)elo\v. Snout convex, width f it« length. Eye elongate, rounded, 

 high, center about first \ in head. Mouth low, nearly horizontal, 

 large. Jaws even. Premaxillarics protractile down. Maxillary little 

 inclined, trifle l^eyond eye front, not quite to pupil. Lips thin, little 

 flfsliy. Small barbel at lower maxillary corner distally. Jaw c<lge.s 

 rather thin, trenchant. .Mandible heavy, convex, rami little elevate<l 

 iaside mouth. Tongue thick, fleshy, adnate. Nastrils together, 

 posterior larger, near eye front. Interorbiinl bio.'idly dcpn'ssccl. I're- 




lOOS.j NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADKLPHl A. 5.')1 



orbital broad, wklth f its length, latter 1^ in eye. Other suborbitals 

 narrow. Gill-opening last f in head, nearly to hind eye margin. 

 Rakers 2-1-5 points, about 3 in filaments, latter If in eye. Pseudo- 

 branchiie large, little le.ss than filaments. Isthmus level, K:ist width 

 nearly 2 in eye. Teeth 1?, 4rA, 1?, hooked, compressed, grinding 

 surfaces narrow. Scales rather large, crowded on pretlorsal and breast, 

 more exposed along sides medianly. Pointed scaly axillaiy ventral 

 flap 5 in fin. I... 1. complete, firet decurved tiU about midwa}' along 

 side. Tubes simple, over first § of exposed scales. Dorsal origin mid- 

 way between eye front antl caudal base, fii-st branched ray longest, fin 

 2 to caudal base. Anal origin little behind doreal base, first branched 

 ray longest, fin If to caudal base. Caudal forked, lobes pointe<l. 

 tips (ilamaged) abo\it equal. Pectoral pointed, upper rays longest, 

 fin I to ventral, Latter in-serted about opposite dorsal origin, reaches 

 anal. Vent close before anal. Color in alcohol dull brownish, belo\\ 

 paler. Head and trunk below with pale silvery reflections. Iris pale 

 silvery. Fins pale Ijrownish. Length -i^ inches (cauilal damageil). 

 No. 5,061, A. N. 8. P., type of C. micropogon Cope. Conestoga Creek 

 in Lancaster County (StaufTer). 



Head 3^ to 4; depth 3 J to 4 J; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, C, i usually, rarely 

 iii, 7, i; scales usually 35 to 40, sometimes 33 or 34, rarely 32 or 41 -I- 

 usually 3, rarely 2; scales above 1. 1. usually 7, frefjuently 6; scales 

 below 1. 1, usually 5, fre(iuently 6, rarely 4; predorsal scales usually 

 16 to 19, occasionally 20, rarel}' 14 or 24; snout 2-^^ to 3 in head; eye 

 3]i to 7; maxillary 2i to 3^; interorbital 2} to 3J; teeth usually 0, 4-4, 

 0, occasionally 1, 4-4, or 1, 4-4, 1, rarely 1, 4-4, 2. Btxly com- 

 pressed, robast. Heafl large, bromlly rounded aliove. Snout convex, 

 blunt, rather long. Kye snuill, high, round, larger in young. Mouth 

 large, little incline^!, mandible slightly shorter. Maxillary not cjuite 

 to eye, ending in l)arbel. Interorbital broadly convex. Rakers 2 + 5 

 short bony {wints. Scales well exposed. L. 1. complete, littledecurve<l. 

 Dorsal origin midway betwecji snout tip and caudal Ijasc. Anal 

 iasertcd behind dorsal base. Caudal emarginate. broad lobes rounde<l. 

 Pectoral 1^ to ventral, latter iiiserte<l oi)posite dorsal origin, reaches 

 vent. Color olivaceoas above with bluish tints. Siiles with pale 

 greenish on white and silvery. lielow white. Fins pale orange. 

 Spring males with head and belly bhished rosy, crimson spot on side 

 of former, high atliposc-like crest on forehemi, and snout with large 

 tubercles. Silvery iris, then orange and greenish. Young olivaceous 

 above, silvery belf>w, and dusky band along side nuNlianly. Length 

 lA ^" ^l inches. .Many examples: from the Sus(|uehanna R. ba-^in in 




552 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [l^^C, 



Elk Creek (Chester Co.); Conestoga Creek and near Denver (Lancaster 

 Co.); Emporium (Cameron Co.): Youghiogheny R. and Meadow 

 Run near Ohio Pyle (Fayette Co.); Beaver R. ; Kiskiminitas R. ; 

 Newcastle (Lawrence Co.); Allegheny R. basin (Warren Co.). 



This beautiful fish occurs in all streams west of the Alleghanies, and 

 I have only met with it in the Susquehanna, in the Atlantic basin of 

 our limits. It is said to reach 10 inches in length and be a fair table 

 fish. Mo<t frequently it is found in the larger creeks and rivers, sel- 

 dom occurring in small brooks. It will take the hook readily and is a 

 good bait as it is hardy. It shows considerable variation, the young 

 being quite unlike the adult, and the latter also differing in the spawn- 

 ing season, which takes place in late spring and earl}' summer. 



Exoglossnm mazillingua (Le Sueur). 



Head 3j to 45; depth 3J to 4^; D. usually iii, 7, i, rarely iii, 8, i; 

 A. usually iii, 6, i, rarely iii, 7, i; scales usually about 48 to 51, 

 rarely 39, 43, 44, 45, 47, 52, 53, 54, 56, 57 + usually 3, frequently 2, 

 rarely 4; scales above 1. 1. usually 10, frequently 9, seldom 11 , rarely 12; 

 scales below 1. 1. usually 6, frequently 7; predorsal scales usually 25 to 

 28. sometimes 29, rarely 30; snout 2| to 3^ in head; eye 2} to 4J; 

 maxillarj' 2f to 3J; interorbital 2tV to 3^; teeth usually 2, 4-4, 2, 

 rarely 1, 4-4, 2 or 0, 4-4, 2. Body compressed, robust. Head com- 

 presse<l, broad. Snout convex, width | its length. Eye small in 

 adult, large in young, high. Mouth small. Maxillary to eye. Upper 

 jaw projecting. Mandible small, dentaries closely wedged together, 

 incurvetl, producing trilobed appearance. Interorbital broadly flat- 

 tene<l. Rakers 1 -f- 3 small roundal tubercles. Scales crowded anter- 

 iorly on trunk. L. 1. continuous in adult, midway along side, incom- 

 plete or absent in young. Dorsal origin midwaj^ between front j^upil 

 margin and caudal base. Anal inserted just behind dorsal base. 

 Caudal emarginate. Pectoral 7 to ventral, latter inserted trifle before 

 dorsal origin, reaches vent. Color olivaceous above, below whitish. 

 Diffuse dusky blotch at caudal base, most distinct in young. Fins 

 otherwise plain. Iris whitish. Length If to 4J inches. Many 

 examples: from the Delaware 1?. ba.'^in at Moiidenhall, Jilack Hoi-se 

 Run and first tributar>- below. Mill Run (Chester Co.): Su.squehauna 

 R. basin at York Furnace (York Co.); I'aradise, near Denver and Wit- 

 mor's Mills (Lancaster Co.); I'hnporiimi (Cameron Co.): Allegheny 

 R. basin at Cole Grove (.McKean Co.). 



This peculiar and strikingly characterize^l species occurs in all oiu- 

 river basins, but seems to be mast abundant in the Susquehanna, it 




VMS.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADKLPIIIA. 553 



is/howev^r, by no means rare in tlie Delaware. It reaches a length 

 of 6 inches ami though rather small is sometimes said to be used as a 

 pan fish. It is usually to be found in clear running water with other 

 small fishes, and readily takes a hook. 



Plate X.WII — Xothopls kelmi Fowler. 




554 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC., 



A NEW SPECIES OF CYMATOPLETJRA. 

 BY CHARLES S. BOYER. 



Since the publication of Greville's papers on the Diatomacea? but 

 few new forms from the deposit of Barbadoes have been described 

 with the exception of those named by the late Prof. J. Brun in the 

 last number of Le Diatomiste. The deposit, however, is very rich, 

 and Mr. John A. Shulze, of Philadelphia, has not only prepared and 

 mounted the greater number of Greville's rare species, but has dis- 

 covered several new ones. Among these may be mentioned a Cyma- 

 topleura the diagnosis of which follows: 



Cjmatopleura shulzei n. sp. 



Valve eUiptical-lanceolate, with produced, subcapitate ends; border 

 with moniliform markings. Surface with ten quite definite undula- 

 tions; striae punctate in quincunx. L. of V. 170 /j., puncta 14 in 10 //. 



Barbadoes deposit. Rare. Coll. J. A. Shulze. 



I take pleasure in naming this species after Mr. John A. Shulze. 

 whose preparations of selected diatoms is unexcelled. Cymatoplcura 

 is a well-<lefined genus, but limited in the number of species. Those 

 known as elliptica, solea, regula, hihernica, angulata, cochlea and the 

 three new ones of Pantocsek, kinkeri, giganlea and gracilis, resemble 

 each other in outline, more or less. Lewis' small form, C. marina, 

 differs chiefly in its lanceolate o\itline. The present species is dis- 

 tinguished by its produced ends and by the fact that it is the only one 

 of the genus thus far found in the miocene deposits (Plate XXVIII), 



I am indebtc<l to Dr. T. S. Stewart for the photographs from whicli 

 the figures were taken. 



Explanation of Plate X.WIII. 



Fig. 1.— Valve view. X 650. 

 Fig. 2.— Same. X 35(). 



Fig. 3. — Zonal view, Homewhat inclined, showing nion'liform markings and Hit; 

 undulations. X 460. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 555 



NOTES ON POLINICES DIDYMA. WITH DESCKIPTION OF A NEW 

 AUSTRALIAN SPECIES. 



BY H. A. PILSURY AND E. G. VANATTA. 



An Indo-Pacific group of species or forms of the Naticoid genua 

 Polinices is characterized by having a transverse sulcus dividing the 

 convex surface of the dark-brown umbihcal callous lobe. Numerous 

 supposed species were basetl on shells of this character, but motlern 

 authors have united all under one species, called Natica ampla by 

 Tryon {Manual of Conchology, VIII, 1886) and Natica didyma by 

 Watson and E. A. Smith {Challenger Report, X^', Ga.stropoda, 1886 

 p. 450), and by Pritchard and Gatliff {Proc. Roy. Sac. Victoria, XII, 

 HKK), p. 191). 



The names which have been applied to the forms in question follow 

 in chronological order. 



1798. Albida didyma Bolten, Muscuni [iolteuianum, p. 20. Based 



upon Nerita umbiliccUa livida Chemnitz, Systematlsches Conchylien 



Cabinet. V, p. 240, j)!. ISO. figs. 1856-57 (Tranquebar). 

 1845. Natica jxipyracea "Husch," Philippi, Abbildungcn und lic- 



schreibungen neuer oder wenig bekannt€r Conchylien, Vol. II 



(October), p. 45. pi. 2, fig. 12 (Ilab. ?); Conchylien Cabinet, 



p. 87, pi. l.'J, fig. 4; p. 4.*i, pi. 5, fig. 4. 

 1848. Natica ampla Philippi, Zeitschrift fiir .Malakozoologie, p. 1.56, 



spec. 16 (Ilab. ?); Conchylien Cabinet {Natica), p. 41, 



pi. 6, fig. 2. 

 1848. Natica bicolor Philippi, Zeitschrift fiir Malakozoologie, p. 156, 



species 17 (China Sea); Coru'liylicn Cabinet, p. 4.'i. pi. 6. fig. 4. 

 1848. Natica vesicalis Phih|)pi, Zeit.-^chrift fin* .Malakozoologie, p. 159 



(China); Conchylien Cabinet, p. 40, pi. 6, fig. 1. 

 1846-1K5S. Natica lamarckii Rccluz. in Clienu, Illustrations Conchy- 



liologiqucH, \'ol. in, pi. 2, figs. 1-4. 

 1846-1858. Natica petiveriana Recluz, in Chenu. Illustrations Con- 



chyliologifpies, Vol. III. pi. 2, figs. 5-9; Reeve, Conchologia 



Iconica, IX, 1855, pi. 5, fig. 17. 

 1846-1858. Natica intermedia Recluz, in Chenu. Illustration.'* Con- 



chyli<>logiqu»>s, Vol. III. pi. 2. fig. 10; pi. 'A, figs. 1, 2. iJ (not of 



i'hilippi, 1836). 




556 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADP:MY OF U^eC., 



1846-185S. Notica chemnitzii Recluz, in Chenu, Illustrations Con- 

 ch yliologiques, \o\. Ill, pi. 3, fig. 4. Reeve, Conchologia Icon- 

 ics, IX, 1855, pi. 2, fig. 7 (not of Pfeiffer, 1840). 



1852. Notica incisa "Dunker," Philippi, Conchylien Cabinet, Natica, 

 p. 81, pi. 12, fig. 8 (China). 



1852. Natica papyracea Busch, var. tnnjor Philippi, Conchylien Cabi- 

 net, p. 157. pi. 5, fig. 4. 



1855. Natica lamarckiana "Recluz," Reeve. Conchologia Iconica, 

 IX, pi. 2, fig. 6. 



1855. Natica problematica Reeve, Conchologia Iconica, IX, pi. G, 

 fig. 21. 



1860. Natica robusia Dunker, Malakozoologische Blatter, Vol. \\, 

 p. 232; Mollusca Japonica. 1861, pi. 2, fig. 24 (Deshima). 



1876. Natica tasmanica Tenison- Woods, Papers and Proceedings 

 and Report of the Royal Society of Tasmania, 1875 (1876), pp. 

 148, 149; 1877 (1878), p. 32; 1890 (1891), p. 134, species 173. 

 Proceedings Royal Society of Victoria, Vol. XII, 1900, p. 192. 

 Polinices tas?nanica T. Woods, Tate and May, Proceedings Lin- 

 nean Society of New South Wales, Vol. XXVI. No. 103, 1901, p. 

 375, pi. 25, fig. 49. 



The study of a series of 53 sjjecimens in 23 lots, from localities in 

 Japan, China, India, the East Indies and Australia, shows that sev- 

 eral species and races can be distinguished, as follows: 

 Polinices didyma Bolten. PI. XXIX, fig. 9. 



Size rather large, up to 59 mm. diam. Coloration as in didyma 

 ampin Phil;, from which it difTei*s by the subtriangidar shape of the 

 umbilical callus, which has a long adnato upper border and less pro- 

 jecting outer edge than P. didyma ampin Phil. 



Type locality, Tranquebar. Bolten's species was based on Chem- 

 nitz's figures. We have seen no examples from Tranquebar. but the 

 figures seem to show no tangible difference between didyma and the 

 common Japanese species describe<l as A'^. robusta Dkr., which we 

 consiflor a synonym, pending the comparison of tojxjtypes. We have 

 Tobwita from Ta.shima, Awaji (Ilirase), and Ilayama, near Kaniakura, 

 Sagami (Mi.ss Hartshorne). It seems to be confine<l lo Japan and 

 India. 



Fig. 9 of ])late .\.\1.\ represents a .Japanese shell. 



Polinices didyma ampla I'lnl. Pi XXIX. fin 8 



A large fonn, ordinarily attaining the diameter of 03 mm. The 

 umbilicus is ver}' ample, the excavation not half covered hy the callus, 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 557 



which projects as a free lobe, the middle or lower part projecting 

 beyond the adnate upper border; hence the general outline of the callus 

 is semicircular. The lower lobe of the callus is ordinarily larger than 

 the upper. The inner part of the umbilical excavation is coveretl 

 with yellowish cuticle except in old or worn shells, as it is in all the 

 relatetl forms; and while there may be two or three narrow radial 

 purplish streaks, the umbilicus is mainly white within. The exterior 

 is more or less deeply tinted with chestnut or livid brown above, 

 paler or white on the base; the early whorls are dull blue with a pale 

 subsutural band, apex dark ral. The inside of the aperture is chestnut 

 above, white at the ba.se. 



Most of the specimens before us are from China. One lot is labelled 

 Madras. The type locality was not known. Absolute synonyms of 

 this form are Natica lajuarckii Recluz, and N. lamarckiana "Recluz," 

 Rve. 



Polinices didyma bicolor (Phil.). PI. XXIX, figs. 4, 5. 



A form of didyma which may periiaps be segregated, as a subspecies 

 wa.«5 described as A'^. bicolor Philippi. It is smaller than P. didyma 

 ampla, the maximum diameter 35 to 39 mm. Umbilicus and umbilical 

 callus similar, but the lobes of the latter are often more convex, and 

 darker, very dark chestnut or chocolate colored. Upper surface 

 darker tiian in didyma or didyma ampla, generally bluish or somewhat 

 plum colored, with darker and paler streaks; base and interior of 

 umbilicus pale or pure white. Interior of the aperture very dark 

 chestnut or chocolate with a whit€ area at the base. 



This form differs from didyma antl didyma ampla ciiiofly by the 

 more strongly contrasted colors and smaller size. While not strongly 

 differentiated, it seems to be recognizable, and not uncommon. 



Type locality China Sea. Specimens are before us frf)m "China," 

 Singapore and Queensland. 



Naiica pclivcriana Recluz is identical with In'color. 

 Folinioet didyma veiicalii (Phil.). PI. XXIX. fiXH G. 7. 



Similar to /'. didyma, but the ba^^e and interior of the umbiHcus are 

 generally conspicuously streaked radially with brown; upper surface 

 light l)ro\viiish, a'^ in didyvui; there is a more or h^s definite white 

 band or |)aler area i)etween the ba'^al and the upper tinte<l tracts. 

 This band is usually more distinct inside. Upper adnate e<lge of the 

 callous lol>e generally longer than in P. didyma ampin I'hil.. tn(»re as 

 in didyma, but the railiis is smaller. The whole parietal wail and 

 adjacent root of the callous lobe are coveretl with a heavy pure white 

 callus, whereas in didyma ampin IMiil. this \vliit(; area is much les.s 




558 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



extendetl. General form is generally rather more elevated than 

 didi/ma ampla. The largest example in the Academy's collection has 

 a diameter of 47 mm. 



Type locality. China. Specimens from three sources before us are 

 from China, with one tray labelled ^Madras. 



Natica intermedia Reclus (not of Philippi, 1836), N. problematica 

 Reeve and .V. iricisa Dkr. are identical with vesicalis. 



Polinices papyracea ("Busch," Philippi). 



We have not seen this form, which according to Philippi differs from 

 didyrna by its depressed shape and very thin shell. It was known to 

 Philippi by one specimen measuring about 18 x 20 mm. Natica 

 papyracea major Philippi is a larger form or specimen. 



Polinicei aulacogloMa n. sp. PI. XXIX. figs, i, 2, 3. 



Shell globose, the contour higher and less broad than in P. didytmi 

 and its varieties, solid; light brown or slightly bluish, with an ill- 

 defined white band at the base. Umbilicus much smaller than in 

 P. didyma, very narrow within, half or more covered by the callus, 

 which is dark brown, divided by a submedian transverse sulcus, 

 subtriangular in shape, the upper margin adnate to the end, which pro- 

 jects farther than the free edge of the lobe. Parietal callus heavy, 

 white. Other characters substantially as in P. didymxi. 



Alt. 30i, diam. 31 mm. 



Type locaUty, Altona Bay, Williamstown, near Melbourne, Vic- 

 toria. Types No. 94229 A. N. S P., collected by Mr. F. H. Baker. 



Some specimens received from Dr. J, C. Cox are larger, alt. 41 i, 

 diam. 42 mm., otherwise similar. This is apparently the form listed 

 by Messrs. Pritchard and GatlifT as Natica didyma Chemn. It is cer- 

 tainly distinct specifically from P. didyma, or any of its subspecies. 



Natica chemnitzii Recluz (not A^. chemnitzii Pfr., 1840) seems to be 

 identical with this species, though if so it attains a larger size than 

 any examples we have seen. In any case the name is a homonym 

 and cannot stand. 



Nalica tasmanica Tenison-Woods has been placed in the synonymy 

 of P. didyma by Messrs. Pritchard and Gatliff, but Tate and May 

 in their Census of Marine MoUusca of Tasmania (\\M)\) have r taine<l 

 it distinct, a decision supporttnl by the figure pul)hsh('<l by them. 

 It is a far smaller species than P. aulacoglossa, alt. 13, diam. 16 nun.; 

 anrl as Tenison-Woods mentions seeing a number of examples in 

 several fojlcctions, it is not likely that he was dealing with young 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 559 



specimens. See also the remarks by Tenison-Woods'in Proceedings 

 oj the Royal Sociely oj Tasmania, 1877, p. 32 (1878). 



Xalica secunda Mab. et Rocheb., as figured and described by Ort- 

 mann.* is evidently closely related to P. aulacoglossa and its allies. It 

 is not surprising to find that the nearest relatives of N. secunda are 

 austral forms. 



Explanation of Plate XXIX. 



The figures are slightly reduced in size. 



Figs. 1. 2, 3 — Polinices aulacoglossa Pils. and Van., n. sp. No. 94229\-\. X. S. P. 



Figs. 4. o— Polinices didi/ma bicolor Pliil., No. 59200 A. N. S. P. 



Figs. 6, 7— Polinices did>/ma vesicalis Phil., No. 59190 A. N. S. P. 



Fig. H— Polinices didipna anipla Phil., Xo. 59198 A. X. S. P. 



Fig. 9— Polinices didifma Bolt, {rohusta Dkr.), No. 80440 A. X. S. P. 



' Pep. Princeton Univ. Erped. to Patagonia, IV, p. ISS, pi. 33, fig. 3a, b. 




560 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



ON THE TEETH OF HAWAIIAN SPECIES OF HELICINA. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY AND C. MONTAGUE COOKE. 



The dentition has been examined in four Hawaiian species of Heli- 

 cina: H. haldwini Anc, //. vherta Gld., H. laciniosa Migh. and //. 

 rotelloidea Migh. The chief divergence is in the denticulation of the 

 fourth or major lateral tooth, which is armed with several large and 

 small denticles in some species, and with more numerous equal denti- 

 cles in others. 



Fig. 1. — Ilelicina baldwini. 



Fig. 2. — Helicina laciniosa. 



In all the species, the central tooth has a very short smooth cusp or 

 le<lge at its summit. 



In H. haldwini (fig. 1) the denticle formula of the laterals is 6, 5, 4, 

 5, 0; that is, the innermost lateral tooth has 6 points or denticles on 

 its recurved cusp, the next tooth has 5, and so on. The inner 

 uncini have three or four rather large denticles. Lateral iv has very 

 uneqtial conic denticles, two of them much larger than the others.- 



H. ubcrla is like baldivini, except that the inner lateral has only 4 

 denticles. 



//. laciniosa (fig. 2) has the denticle formula 5, 6, 4, 7, 0. The 

 major lateral (iv) has an even series of subequal denticles. The 

 inner uncini have about 7 very minute, subequal denticles. 



The radula of //. rotelloidea resembles that of H. laciniosa, the 

 major lat<?ral having 6 subequal denticles, but the inner uncini are more 

 like the //. baldicini type, having about 4 large denticles. Wiiat 

 systematic value attaches to the differences observed is uncertain until 

 many more species can be examined ; but it would seem that two groups 

 are indirate<i, characterize^! by the mode of denticulation of the cusp 

 of the fourth lateral tooth. 



The figures represent the central (c) and latcr.il irdh (i-v), with :i 

 single »mcinu.s (u). 




1908.] XATIHAL SCIKNfKS OF PHILADELPHIA. 561 



CLAUSILIIDi: OF THE JAPANESE EMPIRE. XII. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



Clausilias discovered by Mr. Y. Hirase, his correspondents and 

 assistants, during the last year or two are described below. Unusual 

 interest attaches to certain Euphaedusoid species (C echo, C. nakadae) 

 showing stages in a degeneration series leading to Reinia. Further 

 minor phyla of the Zaptychoid series have also been found. 



Section EUPH^DUSA Boettger. 



I have elsewhere given reasons for including the group Reinia in 

 Euphadusa. C. eastlakcana, C. echo and C. nakadce are connecting 

 links between the typical members of these groups. 



Clausilia eastlakeana vaga u. subsp. 



The shell is hke C. eastlakeana MlklfT. The clausilium is slightly 

 wkler, and distinctly more curved. 



Length 12.0, diam. 3.0mm.; whorls 7 ) . . , 



„ JQ2 ,, 2Q „ „ g y ^akanosluma. 



10.7, " 2.8 " " 7 I ,, ,... 



u 90 " 2 7 " " g. y Akusekijnna. 



Nakanoshima, Osumi. Types No. 95G91 A. N. S. i'. from No. 1513 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection; also Akusokijima, Osumi. 



In general appearance thi.s siiell resembles C. varicgata A. Ad., from 

 which it differs in having a clausilium and two palatal plicae. It is 

 profusely streaked with buff-white on a corneous-brown ground, the 

 lighter tint usually {jn^hMuinating. The peristome is incomplete, the 

 aperture being shaped Hke that of Ena {Buliminus). The short 

 superior lamella curves toward the left termination of the lip, and is 

 separate*! from the tliin, low spiral lamella. The inferior lamella 

 forms a high plate within the back. The subcolumeller lamella is very 

 dei'ply immerstnl. The prinripnl j)lica is rather short and lateral, 

 and there are two short |)alatal plicir, oik; above, tlic othor noar the 

 base. 



i'lansilia aistlitkcnna Mocllcridorff wa.s (l(>.srril)(><l fnuu lu-cliou, on 

 flic i-laiid \aii-1ai. pn»viiice I'lMl.^hicu. in soiithcru Cliin.i. So fjir as 




562 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dt'O., 



the shell is concerned, a comparison of specimens shows scarcely any 

 difference from the variet}'^ defined above from the northeastern 

 Kyukyu Islands, but the clausilium is perceptibly different. It must 

 be admitted that such small differences as exist would not be thought 

 of much significance were it not for the wide geographic separation. 



Clausula echo n. sp. PI. XXX, fig. 7. 



The shell is very small, thin, yellow or corneous, sometimes witii 

 a few yellow flecks; finely striate, becoming more coarsely so on the 

 back of the last whorl, and under a lens showing 

 faint spiral striae. Penultimate whorl widest, 

 those above tapering to the small, shghtly obtuse 

 apex. Whorls 6^ to 7, convex, the last com- 

 pressed laterally, convex below. Aperture squar- 

 ish ovate. Peristome continuous, expanded and 

 reflexed, the upper margin notched over the 

 superior lamella; sinulus retracted. The superior 

 lamella is thin, marginal, separated from the 

 spiral lamella, which is short and lateral. The 

 inferior lamella is deeply placed, forming a promi- 

 nent fold deep in the throat, strongly gyrate within the last whorl, 

 penetrating as deep as the spiral lamella. The subcolumellar lamella 

 is very deeply immersed. The principal plica is very short, lateral. 

 There are small upper and lower palatal plicae. 

 Ivength 7 to 8, diam. 2 mm. 



The claasilium is rather broad, oval, tapering toward both ends, 

 and very strongly curved. 



Akusekijima, Osumi, Types No. 05688 A. N. S. P., from No. 1585 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Claiisilia echo is a connecting link between Reinia and Ewphcedusa. 

 It resembles C. easllakcana except in having the peristome complete, 

 the aperture being shaped mucli as in C. cuholosloma Pils., but that 

 species has no superior lamella. C. echo is a less evolved form than 

 C. eastlakeana, in the same phylum. 



Claaiilia variegata (A. Adama). 



Pilbbry, Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1901, p. 473, pi. 2.5, figa. 11, 12. 

 The type locality for this species is Tago, Izu (not in wostorn Shikoku, 

 as stated in a former communication). Otlior localities are Tokyo 

 and itB environs, Takasaki, Kozuke; Kashima, near Tanabc, Kii, 

 and Hirado, Ilizcn. Specimens have been r('Coivo<l also from Chichi- 

 jima, Ogasawara. They l)elong to the typical form of the species, not 

 to the variety nesiolica. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 563 



The presence of this species in the Bonin Islands may perhaps be 

 due to accidental introduction, with plants or otherwise. There has 

 doubtless been abundant opportunity and time for such introduction 

 since 1593, the date of first discovery of the Bonins, and occupation 

 by the Daimio Ogasawara Sadayori. 



Clauiilia nakadee Pilsbry. PI. XXX. fig. 10. 



Clausilia variegata var. nakadai Pils., Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1902, p. 328. 



The shell is rimate, fusiform, thin, dark brown, uniform or marked 

 with buff on the upper whorls; upper half tapering and attenuate; 

 lower two whorls subequal in width. Surface glossy 

 finely and closely striate, the striation coarser on the 

 latter part of the last whorl. Whorls 6^, convex, the 

 last somewhat tapering downward, rather full and 

 convex basally. The aperture is ovate; peristome thin, 

 reflexed, the ends separatetl, joined across the parietal 

 wall by a rather thin, transparent callus. Superior 

 lamella very thin, subvertical, not continuous with the 

 lateral and doi-sal spiral lamella. Inferior lamella promi- 

 nent, subhorizontal, ascentling in a broad spiral witlun. 

 Subcolumellar lamella very deeply immersed. Prin- 

 cipal plica short, dorsal, penetrating to a lateral position. 

 There are no otiier palatal plicai (Fig. 2). 



Length 7 to 7.3, diam. 2 mm. ^'^- ^* 



The clausilium is very strongly curved, so that the distal part is 

 at a riglit angle with the upper part. It is rather wide, parallel-sided, 

 the end obtuse, slightly angular. The columellar side is only very 

 slightly excised near the filament. 



Ilacliijo-jima, Izu. Types No. 83299, topotypes No. 96984 A. X. 

 S. P., from No. 942 of Mr. Hirase's collection, collected by Mr. Nakada. 

 This form was first described from two specimens, neither of which 

 coiituine<l the clausilium. On subsequent examination Mr. Hira.se 

 discovered that it has a well-developed clausilium, and sent additional 

 examples, one of which is described above, and illustrated on tiie plate. 

 C"oinj)ared with C variegata A. Ad., this species is mucii smaller 

 and much more attenuate above; it is less variegated or uniform 

 brown; and finally it has a clausili\im. C. ccfio, of Akusckijinia, 

 Osumi, in the northeastern Ryukyu chain, is j)erhaps the most closely 

 relat€<l species, but it differs from C. nakada by having the peristome 

 continucil as a raised cord across the parietal margin, and by possess- 

 ing two small i)alatal plicr, whereas C. nakadiT luis only the principal 

 plica. C. nakada; is a perfect connecting link bftwcon C. eastlakeana 

 and (chn and ('. v(tn'rfi<itii. 




564 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec. 



Group of Clausilia aculus. 

 Clausilia tripleuroptyx n. sp. PI. XXXI, figs. 1, 2. 



The shell is fusiform, the lower three whorls rather large, those 

 above tapering to the attenuate summit; brown or chocolate colored, 

 moderately glossy, the last 3 or 4 whorls sharply, finely striate, the 



Fig. 3. — Clausilia tripleuroptyx, a, b, two views of clausilium ; c, last whorl ami 

 aperture; d, e, diagrams of palatal armature of two individuals. 



Striae a Uttle coarser on the back of the last whorl. Whorls about 9, 

 convex, the last flattened laterally, tapering downward. The aper- 

 ture is squarish-ovate; peristome pale, well reflexed, continuous. 

 Superior lamella marginal, of moderate size, comprassed, continuous 

 with the spiral lamella, penetrating to the middle of the ventral side. 

 The inferior lamella approaches the superior, ascends in a broad 

 spiral curve, and penetrates as deeply as the spiral lamella. The 

 subcolumellar lamella is deeply immersed. The principal plica is 

 rather short, lateral. There are usually three palatal pUcae below 

 the principal, the upper well developed, a very short plica below it. 

 There is no lunella, but a lower palatal plica about as long as the upper 

 is present (fig. Sd). 



I>ength 14.5, diam. 3.4 mm. 

 " 13.8, " 3.0 " 



The clausilium is strongly curved, oblique and subangular at the 

 apex, a little excLsed at the columcllar side of the filament (fig. 3a, 6). 



Kuroshima, Satsuma. Types No. 95710 A. N. S. P., from No. 1589 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This species is relate<l to C. digonoptyx Bttg., but dilTors by its palatal 

 plica; and the more cwrvetl, difTercnIly shaped clausilium. It differs 

 from C. subaculu^ by the better developed superior lamella and the 

 different palatal armature. C. aculus Bens, of China and Korea is 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 5G5 



the most closely related species, but it diffei's in sculpture; it has not 

 the fine, threatl-like striation of C. tripleuroptyx , being more glossy, 

 paler colored and less opaque. 



As in C. ocidus, the palatal armature varies. In most examples 

 seen there are three palatal pUcse below the principal plica, the second 

 either pliciform or punctiform (as in fig. 3d). Sometimes there are 

 six plicje, the 3d, 4th and 5th ver\^ small, scarcely visible inside by 

 reflectetl light (fig. 3e). 



Section STEREOPH^DUSA Boettgcr. 

 Clausilia japonica Crosse. 



The typical form of this species is found around Tokyo. The exact 

 locality of the types was not known, but the Tokyo shells agree so fully 

 with them that this place may be considered the type locality. 



The shells are coarsely rib-striate, the striae simple (not split), and 

 on the last whorl there are about five striae in one millimeter. The 

 spiral lamella penetrates inward to the middle of the ventral side; 

 the inferior lamella is much longer. There are two palatal plicae, 

 an upper and lower, below the principal, and in some examples there 

 is the weak rudiment of a lunella near the lower palatal plica, and a 

 second low nodule or plica just below the upper palatal plica. The 

 size of Tokyo spccimeas Is rather variable. 



Length 29.0, diam. 6.5 mm. ; whorls IH. 

 25.5. " 6.5 " " 11. 



26.5, " 6.2 •' " 11. 



The forms I describetl as var. pcrstriata and var. pcrobscura arc close 

 to typical japonica in sculpture. It is hartl to decide what forms of 

 so variable a species call for special names. Besides those now recog- 

 nizcil, there .^eem to be several races, which may for the present remain 

 und escribed. 



The largest form of C. jupoiiicn I have seen was sent from Yakuenji, 

 Izuino, by Mr. Hira.se (Xo. 1594). The shell is rich chestnut colored 

 when unworn, about as finely striate as C. j. nipponensis, and, like that, 

 it has upper and lower palatal plic;e only, the lower one quite small. 

 The spiral lamella runs inward to the middle of the ventral side, the 

 inferior lamella being longer. Except in having no sutiiral plica, tiiia 

 form agrees with C. hilqviulorfi Martons. Xo other Stcrcophadusa is 

 known to haveasutural plica, so that it is possil)le that its rccortied 

 presence in C. hilgerulorfi may be an abnormal development, in which 

 case, tliis form is evidently C. hilgeudorfi. Specimens from ^'akuenji, 

 Izimio, measure: 




566 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF l^^^^'-, 



Length 42.5, tliam. 9 mm. ; whorls 12^. 

 40.0, " 9 " " 11. 



Tliis Clausilia is surpassed in size only by certain forms of C. rnar- 

 tensi. 

 Clausilia japonica kobensis (Smith). 



Clausilia kobensis E. A. Smith, Quart. Journ. of Conch., I, No. 8, p. 122 



(Feb.. 1S76). 

 Clausilia nippoTiensis Kobelt, Jahrb. D. M. Ges., Ill, 1876, p. 275, pi. 8, 



figs. 3, 4. 

 Clausilia loxospira Martens in coll., Kobelt, I.e., p. 277. 

 Clausilia japonica var. nipponensis Kob., Bttg. Jahrb. D. M. Gea., V, 1878, 



p. 50 (Clausilium). 



In western Hondo there is a rather weakly defined race described 

 as kobejisis Smith and Jiipponensis Kobelt, these two names being 

 S3'7ionymous, and based on specimens from Kobe, Setsu. The striation 

 is noticeably finer than in typical C. japonica. The last whorl is fre- 

 quently much compressed, and the preceding whorl bulges, giving 

 a pecuhar contour to the shell in doi"sal view ; but this feature is vari- 

 able. There are always two palatal pUcae below the principal one, 

 an upper and a lower. There is often a whorl more than in typical 

 C. japonica. 

 Clausilia japonica vespertina n. 8ubsp. PI, XX.\', figs, ii, 12. 



Tiie shell is glossy, chestnut colored, large, swollen in the lower half, 

 attenuated as usual above, finely striate, the striae often split or inter- 

 rupted near the suture; penultimate whorl inflated, the last wiiorl 

 compres.sed, tapering downward. The superior lamella is usually 

 small, short, not reaching to tiie margin of the peristome, and generally 

 separated from the spiraj lamella. Palatal phcai two, upper and lower : 

 principal plica usually shorter than in japonica. 



Length 3.3.0, diam. 7.7 nun.; whorls 11^) -p i. l- 



31.2, " 7.7 " " jQ^y lakuhisan. 



32.2, " 8.2 " " ion ^, , 



.33 (J u S8 .' u 11 flakazakiyama. 



Nlshinoshima, Oki, at Takazakiyama (type loc.) and Takuhisan. 

 Types No. 95711 A. N. S P., from No. 198/; of Mr. liirase's collection. 



Tiii-s race differs from C. j. inlcrplicata l)y the absence of inter- 

 mediate palatal plica) between the upper and lower; but it should 

 be noto<i that some individuals of inlrrplirala from Takoya, Izumo, 

 also lack the intenne<iiate plicio, and tlu-n scarcely differ from thia 

 insular race from Oki. It is also related to var. kobensis. 

 Clausilia japonica ultima n. lubsp. I'l. X.\X. ilgn. g, 9. 



Tlic sliell is much more slender and lengthene<l than C. japonica, 

 chestnut colored, paler just below the suture, very glossy, finely and 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 567 



regularly rib-striate, about four striae in one mm. on the last whorl, 

 the interstices of the striae minutely, finely striate transversely. Three 

 or four early whorls are of about equal diameter; the penultimate whorl 

 is largest, the last whorl compressed and tapering downward. The 

 spiral and inferior lamellae are very long, extending inward past the 

 front to the left side; other lamellae as in japonica; two palatal plicae, 

 an upper and a lower, below the principal plica. 



Length 29.-3, diam. 5.5 mm.; whorls 13^. 

 27, " 5.2 " " 13. 



Xakamura, Oki. Types No. 95714 A. N. S. P., from No. 1566 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This is a ver\' distinct race, quite unlike any of the many forms of 

 C. japonica known from the main island and Shikoku. Like the 

 preceiling subspecies it is probably confined to the Oki Islands. 



Claasilia hickonis "Kobeli" Bftg. « 



CIdu.siliu Itirkonis Kobclt, Boettger, Jahrlj. d. D. Malak. Gcs., V, 1S7S, p. 



55, pi. -i, fig. 7; with var. Innodljera Bttp., I.e., fig. 76 (interior of Nippon). 

 C. hickoni.s Kobelt, Fauna Japonica, p. S(j. 

 Clau.'dlia .ftihjiifxmiai Pil.sl^rv, iVoc. -V. X. S. Phila., 1900, p. 679 (Jan. 28, 



1<K)1) rihiiki. Oini). 

 CUiuailia Julloni .sub.sp. clavulu Non Moellendorff, Xachrbl. d. D. Malak. 



Ges., April, 1901, p. 41 (Ibuki, Omi). 



This fine Sterrophmlusa has some resemblance to C. (Megalophiv- 

 flusa) vasta. It is now known from Ilakusan. Kaga; Kurozu and 

 Tomisato, Kii; Ibuki, Omi; and on Shikoku from Nagaomura, Sanuki. 



The variety C. hickonis snuria Pils. diffei-s chiefly by its nnich 

 coarser striation. It was described from Sodayama. Tosa, and smaller 

 examples have been taken at Naarimura. Tosa. No. 1010 of Mr. 

 Hirase's collection, S.3901 A. N. S. P. 



Claasilia jacobiana jacobiella n hu»>mi> I'l. XXXI. figs. 3, 4, .'i. 0. 



The shell is more slender than ('. jacobiana; and the last half of the 

 last whorl is less coarsely striate. There are short upper and lower 

 l)alatal |)lic:i', but no lunella (pi. XXXI, figs. 3, 4, 5). 

 Ix^ngth 14.8. diam. 3.0 nun.; whoHs9J. 

 13.0. " 3.0 " '* 9. 



12.7, " 2.9 " " s;. 



Akusekijima, Osumi. Types No. 95682 A. X. S. P., from No. 1547 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. Also Nakanoshima and Suwanasejima. 

 Specimens from Xakano-shima are a little larger: 

 I.<'ngth 15.2, dianj. 3.4 nun., whorls 9. 

 14.9, " 3.6 " 

 1 1.3, " 3.25 " 




56S PROCEEDIXG?> OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. 



.Shells from Siuvanoscjinia are much smaller: 



Length 12. diam. 2.9 to 3 mm.; whorls S^ (pi. XXXI, fig. 6). 



Clansilia nishinoshimana n. sp. PI. XXXI, fig. 7. 



A Stereophosdusa of the group of C. brevior. The shell is fusiform, 

 tapering from the penultimate whorl, considerably attenuated near 

 the apex; dull dark brown; rather finely and 

 sharply striate except the earlier whorls, which 

 are worn. Whorls IH, moderately convex, the 

 second, third and fourth of about equal diameter, 

 the last compressetl and tapering downward. Ap- 

 erture ovate, the sinulus a little retracted. Peris- 

 tome brown tinted, rather broadly reflexetl, 

 recurved at the edge, thick. Superior lamella a 

 little oblique, marginal, continuous with the 

 spiral lamella, which is high and lamellar in the 

 Fig. 4. middle, low toward both ends, and penetrates 



inward to a point above the outer lip. The inferior 

 lamella forms a rather strong fold in the throat, and ascends in a broad 

 spiral curve in the back, where it is very wide. It penetrates as deeply 

 as the spiral lamella. The subcolumellar lamella emerges to the 

 lip edge. The principal plica is weak, short and lateral. There are 

 short upper and lower palatal plicae, but no lunella (fig. 4). 

 I^ength 18, diam. 3.9 mm. 



The clausilium is strongly curved, somewhat angular at the ape.x, 

 a little excised on the columellar side of the filament. It is similar to 

 the clausilium of C. brevior} 



Nishinoshima, Oki. Types \o. 95689 A. N. S. P.. from No. 1576 

 of .Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This species is closely related to C. brevior, differing in the following 

 respects: There are but two palatal plicae below the princi{)al one, 

 which is much .shorter than in C. brevior; the spire tapers for a longer 

 distance, and it is composed of more whorls. 



Some individuals lose the early whorls, closing the breach with a 

 convex plug, as in some Urocoptids. The number of whorls retaine<l 

 may be re<lucod to six. Among some hundrctls of C. brevior .seen from 

 six localities, none were similarly truncate. It is a rather unu.sual 

 condition in Japanese ClausiliuUc. 



' See Proc. A. N. H. Philn., I'.tnl. pi. 3S, ^^f^H. .VJ. r/.i. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 569 



Section LUOHUPH^DUSA Pilsbry. 



Claasilia degenerata Pils. 



CUiusilia nakndai degenerata Pils., Proc. A. X. S. Pliila., 1904, p. S18, pi. 52, 

 fig. 12; pi. 53, fig. 22. 



The inadvertent use of Mr. Xakada's name twice in Clausilia makes 

 it necessan' to modify the later application as above. The former 

 subspecific name will become the name of the species, while what was 

 formerly described as typical C. nakadai requires a new name, which, 

 being later, becomes subspecific. I am indebted to Mr. Hirase for 

 calling my attention to the duplication. 



The type of C. degenerata is No. 87593 A. X. S. P., from Xo. 1205 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



C. degenerata nakadiana n. n. 



Clausilia nnkadai Pils.. Proc. A. X. S. Pliila., 1904, p. SIS. pi. 52, figs. 9, 10, 

 11; pi. 5.3, figs. IS, 19. Not C. variegata var. nakadai Pils., Proc. A. N. S. 

 Phila., 1902, p. 328. 



The type of C. d. nakadiana is Xo. 87594 A. X. S. P., from Xo. 1205a 

 of Hirase's catalogue. 



Section FORMOSANA Bttg. 



This section has much adinity with lUmiphwdusa and tlie closely 

 related Mcgalophvcdusa, liaving the same long and narrow type of 

 clausilium, whicli,' however, is slightly thickened at the end. The 

 palatal structure is primitive — a series of welUlovolope<l. subequal 

 plicai. 



Three Formosau species known may be distinguisliei^l as follows: 



a. — .Shell rather obesely fasiform, the diameter contained 3^ to A\ 



timcis in the length; whorls 9 to 11, tlie later ones closely aiul 



linely striate. 



b. — Whorls convex; later whorls witli waved striae; southern 



Formosa. 



c. — Color pale yellowish or very pale brownisli (pi. XXXll. 



figs. 4, 8, 9); C. jomwscnsis \. Ad. 



c'. — Color dark reildish or purplish brown (pi. XXXII, figs. 



1, 2, 3) C. /. hotawana Pils. 



b\ — Wliorls flattened; stri:i' lino, chisc and straight; dark colored, 

 northern Formosa (pi. X.VXIl, figs. 7, 10, 11), 



C. swinhoci U. Ad. 



n\ — Shell long and narrow, the diam. contained 5 or G times in the 



length; whorls 11 to 11, the later ones flatteneil, with inter- 



riipte«l stria? (pi. XXXII, figs. 5, 6). . . C. tauvanica Pils. 



CUuiilia formoieniU H. A'l. IM. XXXII. Rgt. 4, 8. B. 



This species Ijclongs to southern Formosa, whWcC. swinhoci has been 

 fcMMid only in the northern end of the island. In color it varies from 




570 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



pale yellow to a pale reddish-brown tint. Schmacker and Boettger 

 have already described the close, peculiarly waved or " vermiculate" 

 striation of the later whorls. Figs. 8, 9 are from Hotawa examples ; 

 fig. 4 is a smaller, eroded form from Arikawa. 

 C. formosensis hotawana subsp. nov. PI. XXXII, figs, i, 2, 3. 



The shell resembles C. formosensis in its rather obesely fusiform 

 shape, convex whorls, close and sharp wa\y striation, and in the 

 characters of aperture and interior; but it differs by being dark reddish- 

 brown or purplish-brown in color, the apical whorls yellowish- white, 

 lip wliite, interior of the mouth purple-brown. Old examples usually 

 lose the apical whorls. 



Length 28.0, diam. 7.8 mm.; whorls 8H apex entire). 



" 29.7, " 7.5 " " 8 remaining (decollate). 



Hotawa, Formosa. Types Xo. 90032 A. N. S P., from No. 1397 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



The locality Hotawa, given by us for C swinhoci (Proc. A. N. S. Phila.. 

 1905, p. 738), should be cancelled. The record was based upon the 

 specimens described above as C. /. hotawana. So far as we know, the 

 true C. swinhoei has not been found at that place, but only in the 

 extreme north of the island. 

 Claasilia taiwanioa n. sp. PI. XXXII, figs. 5. 6. 



The shell is cylindric-turrite, very long and slender, dark purple- 

 brown, very glossy; sculpture of rather fine, low obhque striaj, cut 



into long granules by spiral 

 impressions which cut the 

 striiD only, and are noticeable 

 only on the later 3 or 4 whorls ; 

 striation not coarser on the 

 back of the last whorl. 

 Whorls 1 1 to 14, the earher 

 ones convex, more or less 

 worn in adult shells; the last 

 3 or \ whorls less convex, 

 last whorl compressed, nar- 

 rower than the preceding, 

 nearly straight-sided, rounde<l 

 basally. The aperture is 

 '*^' ■ ovate, vertical, very dark in- 



side; peristome pure white, broadly reflexed. Superior lamella high, 

 very oblique, marginal, continuous within with the sj)iral lamella. 

 which penetrates to a point above the upper angle of the ap(!rture. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 571 



Inferior lamella forming a moderately prominent fold on the columella, 

 straightened and obliquely ascending in the back, and as long within 

 as the superior lamella. Subcolumellar lamella barely emerging, 

 not extending upon the lip. Principal plica about a half wiiorl long. 

 Palatal plicsp 6, the lower five nearly equal, lateral, showing as a 

 whitish streak outside (fig. 5). 



I^ength 36.2. diam. 6.0 mm.: length of aperture 7.5 mm. 

 31.0, " 5.8 " " 7 " 



Gausilium narrow with nearly parallel sides, the lower end rounded 

 and somewhat thickened. 



Taiwan (Formosa), at Taito (or Hinan). Types No. 94756 A. N. 8. 

 P. from No. 1492 of Mr. Hira.se's collection. 



This species has the dark color of C sicinhoei, and agrees with that in 

 the general structure of the aperture and internal plicae, but it differs 

 from that species by its long, narrow shape, greater number of whorls, 

 and the much more obsolete striation, that of C. swinhoci being com- 

 paratively close, fine and sharp, and not interrupted into long granules, 

 as it is in C. tahcanica. 



Section HEMIPH^DUSA Boettger. 



The type of this group is Clausilin pluvialilis Bens, of Cliina, a 

 form clasely related to species of the Japanese group of C. platyauchen. 

 An arrangement of the Japanese species was given in these Proceedings 

 for 1901, p. 623, and pp. 648-651. Subsequent studies have added 

 many species and cau-sed the removal of some originally included in 

 I/emiphanlusa to form new sectioas — Nesiophadusa, Luchuphadusa 

 and Zapti/x. Moreover, it appears that the species with several palatal 

 pliciB arc not separable from thase with an I-shape<l lunella (cf. C. 

 tosana, etc.). A new classification of the species is therefore in order: 



Groups of Japanese Hemiphadusce. 



a. — Lunella well develoi>ed, curving inward above, and below unite<l 

 tt) the middle of a straight or archetl lower palatal plica. C'lau- 

 silium scarcely or not exci.se<l at the palatal siile of the filament, 



Group of C. platijaufhen. 



a'. — Clausilium deeply e.xcLsed at the palatal side of the filament. A 



lower palatal plica present, or represented by an inward curve 



of the lower end of the lunella. 



b. — Lunella well devel<)|MMl, J-shapal, the lower palatal plica 



H'pn-sented only by tlie inward curve of its lower end. 



Apical end of clausilium simple. 



c. — I'rincipal i)lica very small or wanting; no upper palatal 



plica Group of C. hypcrolia. 




Hi J. 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



c\ — Principal plica well developed ; a short upper palatal plica, 

 or the lunella bent inward in its place. 



Group of C. awajiensis. 



b\ — Lunella, etc., as in the group of C. awajiensis, but there is a 



lower palatal nodule at its lower end ; clausilium in apical 



view appearing deeply notched, . Group of C. aulacopoma. 



b-. — Lunella either I-shaped, or replaced by a series of palatal 



plicae, Group of C. validiuscula. 



a-. — A short, straight, or nodule-like, or rudimentar}' lunella, not 

 curving inward at the lower end, below one or two palatal 

 plicre; no loicer palatal plica. Clausilium not excised at the 

 palatal side of the filament, . . . Group of C. sublunellata. 



ClatiBilia tosana I'ils. PI. XXXI, figs. 14-20. 



Proc. A. X. S Phila., 1900, p. 680, pi. 25, figs. 22-25, 41. 



This species is now before us from five localities, all on Shikoku 

 Island. It shows remarkable variation. All have the last whorl 



Fip. 6. — Clnunilin lonnna. a, tv'pical form from U.-'liiroliawfi, Toi'a; b, variety 

 from Sliimohanyama, Tosa; c, variety from Irazii\ama, Tosa. 



built forward, Cyiindrella-liko, with a furrow outside above the 

 principal plica, and the subcolumellar lamella is always very deeply 

 immerse<l. Internally the spiral and subcolumollar lamellae are 

 usually of equal length, reaching inward to the middle of the ventral 

 side, and the inferior lamella between them is shorter. 



1. The types from Usliirokawa, Tosa (pi. 31, figs. 

 several palatal plicic standing upon a ridge (fig. 6a) 



length 12.2, diam. 2.6 mm.; whorls 10^. 



16. 17), have 

 and measure: 



9 r^ 



9.J. 

 0^. 



11.0. 



11.0. " 2.3 

 10.5, " 2.5 " 

 2. A l«)t from Shimohanyama, Tosa (pi. 31, figs. 18, 19). also have 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 573 



several tubercular plicae on a distinct, curved ridge (fig. 66), but are 

 larger : 



Length 15.0, diam. 3.5 mm.; whorls 9^. 

 12.3, " 3.0 ." " 9J. 



3. Those from Irazuyama.Tosa (pi. 31, fig. 20). have a well developed 

 arcuate lunella between the upper and lower palatal plicae, but hardly 

 joined to either (fig. 6c), specimen>s measure: 



Length 13.8, diam. 3 mm.; whorls 10|. 

 14.0, " 3 " " 10. 



4. A lot from Xametoko, lyo (pi. 31, figs. 14, 15), has a similar 

 curs'ed lunella, and consists of specimens of two sizes, obviously from 

 two diverse stations. The larger shells are more or less worn, the 

 cuticle mainly lost, and measure 11.8 to 13.2 mm. long. The smaller 

 shells arc glossy with the cuticle jierfect, the Up is narrower, and the 

 subcolumellar lamella is not so long inside as the spiral. They measure : 



Length 9.4, diam. 2.2 mm.; whorls 8^. 

 8.9, " 2.1 " " 8i 



5. At Kotsuzan, Aw a, the curve<l lunella is also perfect, as in (3) 

 and (4). The Up is better developed than in the smaller specimens 

 from Nametoko, lyo. Specimens measure: 



Length 10, diam. 2.3 mm.; whorls 9^. 

 9, " 2.0 " " Si. 



These lot.s show that multifarious differcntiatinn with consequent 

 formation of local races is in i)rogress; but in the present condition 

 of our knowletlge it would probably be inexpedient to recognize these 

 races by nanje. 



Claasilia pigra Pila- 



Proc. \. X. S. Pliila., 1902, p. 368 (Kaahima. Harima). 

 Specimens received from Nagami, Iwami and Yakuenji, Izumo, 

 differ slightly from the types. The aperture is built forward a little 

 less, and the lunella difi'ers somewhat, being shapetl more as in the 

 group of C. platyauchen, there being a vcr}' short lower palatal plica, 

 and the upper jmlatal plica is rcprescnte<l only by an inward bend 

 of the lunella. wherca-s in tlio types of pigra the upper jdica stands 

 almost free of the lunella. and the whole structure is somewhat J- 

 f*hapc<l (rather than I-shape<l, a.s originally describeil). 



Claaiilia ikieniis Uuthimana n. lubap. PI. XX.XI. ng* 8, 0. lO 



Shell soinewliat larger and more robust than C. ikiensis, the subcol- 

 umellar lamella wholly immersctl ; outer end of the lower palatal plica 

 joining the lunella. 

 3: 




574 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



3.2 mm.; whorls 11. 

 9. 



Izuhara. 



Tsutsu. 



Length 14.5, diam. 



13.5, " 3.5 " 



" 12.2, " 3.0 " 



Length 15.0, diam. 3.4 mm. 



15.0, " 3.4 " 



12.7, " 3.25 " 



Izuhara, Tsushima. Types 



1550 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



The specimens vary remarkably in contour. 

 Tsutsu are figured. 

 ClauBilia hemileuoa n. sp. PI. XXX, fig, 6; PI. XXXI, fig. 11. 



The shell is long and rather slender, the upper half tapering and 

 attenuate; glossy; finely and distinctly striate, the earliest whorls 

 worn; lower half of each whorl dark reddish-brown, upper half white, 

 the base of the last whorl and a streak over the lunella also white. 

 Whorls about 10^, moderately convex, the second, third and fourth 

 of about equal diameter, last whorl flattened laterally. Aperture 



whorls 10. 

 11. 

 9. 



No. 95701 A. N. S. P., from No. 

 Also Tsutsu and Kashitake, Tsushima. 

 Three examples from 



Fig. 7, Clausilia fiemileuca. 



ovate, the sinulus slightly retracted. Peristome expanded and reflcxed, 

 thick, white, notchwl over the superior lamella, which is compressed, 

 vertical and marginal, continuous with the spiral lamella, which is 

 rather high and penetrates inward to a point above the outer lip. 

 The inferior lamella rece<les deeply, but in oblique view is visible as 

 a fold within the throat; in the back it ascends obliquely, being .''lightly 

 sigmoid, and it is thickened below. It penetrates less deeply than the 

 superior lamella. The subcolumollar lamella is deeply immersed, 

 not visible in the mouth. The prinripal plica is al)out a half whorl 

 long, approaching the a|>crture. Upper palatal plica short and curved, 

 not connectc<l with the oblique, curvc<l lunella (fig. 7b). 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 575 



Length 18.5, diam. 3.7 mm. 

 17.0. " 3.8 " 



The clavjsihum (figs, la, c) is narrow and tapers rather strongly 

 toward the rounded apex, the palatal margin being decidedly convex. 

 It is excised on the columellar side of the filament, and is rather 

 strongly curved throughout. 



Oetakayama, Iwami. Types No. 95705 A. N. S. P'., from No. 1600 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Only six specimens of this 'handsome Hcmiphccdusa were taken. 

 In coloration it resembles C. holoiremu. No other Japanese Hcmi- 

 ph(Edusa is similarly colored. The separation of tiie upper palatal plica 

 from the lunella and the shape of the clausilium are further distinguish- 

 ing features. 



Section HEMIZAPTYX Tilsbry. 

 Clausilia ptychooyma Pils. 



In speciiirens from Kuroshima the subcolumcllar lamella emerges 

 on the lip but is rathor weak, and the spiral and inferior lamellre are 

 longer than in the types, running inward to a point above the termi- 

 nation of the outer lip. They measure 11.2 to 12.5 mm. 



Claaiilia a^a ipioata n. subsp. PI. XXXI, &gs. I2, 13. 



The .shell resembles C. agna in its smooth surface and translucent 

 texture, and in having the subcolumellar lamella weakly emerging, or 

 at least visible in an oblique view in the mouth; but it diffei"s by being 

 longer and more slender, similar in shape to C. purissitna. It may be 

 either clear greenish-corneous (like C. pitrissima), chestnut brown, 

 or very pale brown. C. cujna spicata diffcre from C. purisshia by its 

 emerging subcolumellar lamella. The shell is also stronger when adult. 



Length 12.0, diam. 2.3 nun.; whorls 9^ ^ 



" oi ! 



.. oi ( Akuseki. 



" Si J 



If Kucliinoerabu. 



Akusekijima, Osiimi. Type« No. 95709 A. N. 8. P., from No. 663e 

 of Mr. Ilirawc's collection. Also taken at Kuchinoerabu.shima, Osunii. 

 No. 9(X)23 A. N. S. P., from No. 663(i of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This rare stands between C. agna, (le«cril)e<l from Yaku-shima, and 

 C. ptirisHxnia, from Miyuke-jima. Izii, and shows that these two specie^. 

 widely se|)arate<l geograpliically, are in reality very closely related. 

 Tlie Miyake-jima form has a ver}- deeply immerse*! subcolumellar 




576 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



lamella, but otherwise hardly differs from pale, long specimens of C. 

 a. spicnia. 



In C. agna the lunella only weakly joins the upper palatal plica. 

 This is not well shown in the original figure. 



Section HETEROZAPTYX Pils. 

 Claasilia oxypomatioa Pils. 



Specimens received from Ogachi. Oshima, are smoother than the 

 type of this species, the striation rather indistinct except on the last 

 whorl, and the clausilium is quite perceptibly broader. 

 Length 12, diam. 2.8 mm. ; whorls 9^. 

 11, " 2.6 " " 6. 



Section ZAPTYX Pilsbry. 

 In this section we group numerous closely related forms distributed 

 throughout the Ryukyii chain, from the Southwestern Group to 

 Kagoshima Bay. 



Key to Species of Zaptyx, s. str. 



a. — Upper palatal plica very long; spiral lamella reduced to a short 

 lamella in the region of the lunella. 

 b. — 10.5 to 12.5 mm. long, with 9^ to 10 whorls; striatulate. 



Ryukyu, C. dolichoptyx. 



6'. — 8.5 to 9.5 mm. long, with 8 to 8^ whorls ; last half whorl sharply 



and finely striate. Ryukyu, C. d. viicra. 



t}. — Upper palatal plica moderate or short, much shorter than the 

 lunella. 

 6. — Subcolumellar lamella wholly immei'sed; whorls quite convex, 

 smoothish, but finely and sharply striate behind the lip. 

 c. — 9 to 10 mm. long, 2.2 to 2.3 wide. Okinoerabushima, 



C. sarissa. 

 c*. — 8 to 9 mm. long, 2 to 2.1 wide; last two whorls less convex. 



Nakanoshima, C. nakanoshinmna. 



6'. — Subcolumdlar lamella emerging; whorls less convex. 



c. — Upper i)alutal plica very short; inferior lamclhi not con- 

 tinuous witliin with the liunolhi inscrta. 

 d. — Last 3 or 4 whorls finely and sharply striate; superior 

 and spiral lamelUe woaklj' continuous. Yacyania, 



C. yaei/mtu'tisis. 

 <f. — Smoothish throughout, or only the last whorl striate; 

 superior and spiral lamcllaj widely separatetl. 

 e. — Smoothish, early whorls not attenuate. Satsuma, 



C. hirasei. 

 e\ — liack of last whorl striate; spire attenuate above, 



Kikai, Tokuno ('. kikiticnsis. 



c'. — Upper palatal plira nioderntc; inferior lamella continuous 

 with the lamella inserta, penetrating inwanl jis far ns the 

 spiral lamella; fMlcnun and parallel lamella well devel- 

 op'"!, apex larger than the j)recediMg sjieeics. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 577 



d. — Shell smoothish, la.st whorl more or le.ss striate. Ryii- 

 kyii, Yoronjima C. hyperoptyx. 



d\ — Last 3 or 4 whorls sharply striate. Sezokojinia, 

 Kyuk}-ii C. h. sezokoens^is. 



Clansilia nakanoshimana n. sp. I'l. XXX, fig. 2. 



The shell is small and slender, the lower half oylindric, upper half 

 tapering slowly to the rather large and obtuse apex; pale brown, 

 somewhat transparent, thin, glossy, faintly striat- 

 ulate, becoming distinctly striate behind the 

 outer lip. Whorls 7^ to 7|, the earlier ones quite 

 convex, the last two much less so; last whorl 

 convex below but not saccate. The aperture is 

 broadly oval ; peristome white, reflexed and rather 

 thick, continuous. The superior lamella is mar- 

 ginal, subvertical, not continuous with the spiral 

 lamella. Spiral lamella is very low and thread- 

 like, and extends inward only slightly beyond the yjg ^ 

 lateral line. The inferior lamella recetles deeply, 

 being visible a.s a prominent fold in an oblique view in the aperture; 

 insitle it ascends nearly vertically, is very broad and a little curveil, 

 rather abruptly terminating above, not continuetl on the parietal wall, 

 but reappearing as a minute lamella near the inner end of the spiral 

 lamella. The subcolumellar lamella is rather deeply immersed. The 

 principal plica is dorsal and lateral. Upper palatal plica short, 

 connectod to the oblique, nearly straight hmella. There are two 

 delicate sutural plicie, and a minute parallel lamella (fig. 8). 



I>ength 9, diam. 2.1 mm.; whorls 7}. 

 " 8, " 2.0 " " 73. 



" 8, " 2.0 " " 7i 



The clausilium is narrow, rather long, roimded at the apex, rather 

 straight except near the filament where it bends abruptly. It is deeply 

 excised at the columellar side of the filament, antl broadly dilatt^i 

 at the palatal side. 



Nakano.shima. Osumi. Types No. 95()87 A. N. S. 1'., from No. 1517 

 of Mr. Ilirjisc's collection. 



This species is closely relate<l to C. sarissa I'ils. of Okinoerabu- 

 shima. It diflFers by the more slender phell ^\ith the la-st two wliorls 

 les.s convex, and the clausiliunj a little more slender and slightly twistetl 

 near the apex. 

 Claaiilia yaayameniis l'il» 



I'il.sl.ry, I'roc. A. ,\. S. I'liiln.. 11H»J, p. 831. 



Previously reported from ^'aeyama, now sent frctin ^'onakuni-jima 




o78 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



the westernmost of the Sakishima or Southwestern Group of islands. 

 and the nearest one to Formosa. The specimens measure 8.5 to 

 9.7 mm. 



While veiy closely related to C hypcroptyx sezokocnsis of Sezokojima, 

 Kunchan (Loochoo), this form is separable b}'' the inferior lamella 

 which is short inside, its inner end being separated as a lomclla insciio, 

 while in C. hyperoplyx the inferior lamella is continued within parallel 

 to the spiral lamella. This rather minute distinction is constant in 

 the specimens I have opened, and, in connection with the geographic 

 isolation, may be held of specific significance. 

 Clausilia hyperoptyx sezokoensis n. subsp. 



The shell diffei'S from C. hyperoptyx by having the last 4 or 5 wliorls 

 densely striate, as in C. yaeyamensis. Internally it is like C. hypcr- 

 optyx, the inferior lamella being continued inward parallel with the 

 spiral lamella. 



Sezokojima, an islet on the west side of Kunchan, Loochoo. Types 

 No. 89884 A. N. S. P., from No. 457d of Mr. Hirase's collection. Sezo- 

 kojima or Scsokojima is similar to the adjacent peninsula of Okinawa 

 geologicall}', being formed of raised reefs around a center of palaeozoic 

 limestone. 



Section STEREOZAPTYX Pilsbry. 

 Clausilia exodonta n. sp. Figs. 9, 10. 



The shell is slender, fusiform, solid and strong, dull yellow, smoothish, 

 the last third of the last whorl strongly striate. Wliorls 8, moderately 

 convex, the last compressed at the 

 sides, tapering toward the base, built 

 forward free of the preceding whorl. 

 Apex rather acute. Aperture oblique, 

 small, piriform, the jieristome broadly 

 expanded and reflexed. Sinulus 

 slightly retracted, oval, nearly separa- 

 ted from the aperture by a strong 

 conical tooth within the outer lip, 

 which approaches the lower end of the 

 superior lamella. Superior lamella 

 ol)liquo, high, but not i)enetrating far 

 inward, separated from the spiral lainclla, whicii is a 

 low plate in a lateral position, penetrating inward to 

 a j)oint above the cohnnellar lip. Inferior lamella 

 receding, visible as a strong fold in the ai)crture, strong, 

 high and strongly spiral within the back, much shorter 

 within than the s|)iral lamella. SubooluMielhir lamella 



// 



Fig. 10. 



Fig. 9. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 579 



very deeply immersed. Principal plica very short, weak and lateral. 

 Lunella low above, becoming very strong toward its lower end, which 

 is tliickened and curves inward (fig. 10). There is a short, tubercular 

 fulcrum, but no sutural pUcae. 



Length 9.8, diam. 2 mm. 



The clausilium is broad above, tapering to the apex, which projects 

 somewhat. It is strongly curved throughout, V-shaped in section 

 near the apical end, dilated on the palatal side near both ends, and 

 deeply excised on the columellar side of the filament, as usual. 



Sumiyoho, Oshima, Osumi. Types No. 95G90 A. N. S. P., from No. 

 1504 of Mr. Hira.-^e's collection. 



This very distinct Uttle species is more slender than C. erUospira 

 or C. exuhins, and difTere from all known Japanese species by having 

 a conical tooth at the upper third of the outer lip, forming, with the 

 superior lamella, an oval sinulus. 



Section PARAZAPTYX Pils. 

 Clausilia thaamatopoma PUs. 



Originally described from Kumejima, this species has also been found 

 on the island of Kerama (Keramajima). in several places — Tokashiki, 

 Zamami and Tokashikijima. Most of the specimens from this island 

 are more slender than the types, with more whorls; yet some agree 

 with typical thaumatopoma in these respects, so that a subspecific 

 separation seems impracticable. 



The measurements of several specimens follow : 



l.«ngth 11.0, diam. 2.4 mm.; whorls 9 ) ,. 



10.5, " 2.3 " " 8^3 ^"""^^ 



una. 



Section METAZAPTYX Pilshry. 



The shell is similar to Zaptyx in having putural i)licic, fulcum and 

 parallel lamella. The inferior lamolln is vrry I>road wilhin, ascrnds 




580 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. . 



spirally, and is visible in oblique view in the mouth as a strong fold 

 approaching the superior lamella. Spiral lamella very low throughout. 

 Base of the shell conspicuously full and sack-like, the latter part of 

 the last whorl sharply striate. Clausilium broad throughout, rounded 

 at the apex, strongly bent near the middle. Type C. pattalus. 



This group differs from Zaptyx by the shape of the inferior lamella 

 and the saccate base of the shell, and by the shape of the clausihum, 

 which is strongly bent near the middle, while in Zaptyx it is nearly flat 

 except close to the filament. It difTers from Stereozaptyx by the shape 

 of the clausilium, which is broad at the distal or lower end in Meta- 

 zaptyx, tapering in Stereozaptyx. Also by the base of the shell, which 

 is not saccate in Stereozaptyx. 



The inferior lamella sometimes continues on the base of the penul- 

 timate whorl as a slender thread parallel to the spiral lamella, occa- 

 sionally penetrating deeper than the latter, but this thread-like con- 

 tinuation may be absent or interrupted. The spiral lamella is remark- 

 ably low throughout. As in Zaptyx, the species are closely related 

 and rather difficult. The shape of the clausihum is often characteristic. 

 Both Zaptyx and Metazaptyx are widely ranging groups in the islands 

 between Kyushu and Formosa. 



The following species belong to Metazaptyx: 



Southwestern Group of the Ryukyu Islands. 



C. pcUtalus Pils. Tarama-jima. 



C. p. miyakoensis Pils. Miyako-jima. 



Oshima Group (Osumi). 



C. doemoTwrum Pils. Kikaiga-shima. 

 C. d. viva Pils. Tokuno-shima. 



Tokara Group (Osumi). 



C. tokarana Pils. Suwanose-jima to Tokara-jima. 



C. t. saccatibasis Pils. Nakano-shima, Kuchino-shima. 



I zushichito-jima (Izu). 

 C. hachijoensis Pils. JIaciiijo-jima and Nii-jima. 



CUuiUui tokarana d. tp. PI. XXX, fig. 3. 



The shell is cylindric below, above tapering to the small but obtuse 

 apex; light brown; weakly .striatulate, nearly smooth, the last third 




1908. J 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



581 



Fig. 11. 



-a, b, C. tokarana; c, C. I. sacrati- 

 basis, short form. 



of the last whorl finely and 

 rather sharpl}' striate. Whorls 

 7h to 9, slightly convex, the 

 last flattened at the sides, very 

 convex and somewhat sack- 

 like at the base. The aperture 

 is rhombic, peristome thin. 

 I'ery narrowly re flexed, con- 

 tinuous. Superior lamella 

 is small, thin and vertical, 

 continuoiLS with the spiral 

 lamella, which is low and 

 thread-like throughout, and 

 continues inward to a point 

 above the columella. The 

 inferior lamella recedes deeply, 

 and is visible as a prominent 

 fold in an oblique view in the 

 mouth. Inside it is broad 

 and ascends in a spiral curve; 



it is continued low and thread-like parallel to the spiral lamella, and 

 penetrates more deeply than that. The subcolumellar lamella emerges 

 weakly. The principal plica is short, dorso-lateral. The verj' short 

 or subobsolete upper palatal plica joins the very oblique, slightly 

 curved lunella. Sutural plicae, fulcrum and parallel plica are well 

 developed (fig. ll,a). 



Ix^ngth 11, diam. 2.8 mm.; whorls SJ. 

 9, " 2.25 " " 7A. 



The claiLsilium (fig. 11.6) is broad, parallel -sided, rounded at the 

 apex, strongly curvetl in the middle, dilated on the palatal side of the 

 filament. 



Suwanose-jima, O.sumi. ;Types No, 95678 A. N. S. P., from No. 

 1592a of Mr. Hirase's collection. Also Tokara-jima, No. 1592 of 

 Mr. Ilirase's collection, and Aku.«?eki-jima, No. 1548 of Mr. Hirase's 

 collection. 



This species is relatcfl to C. t. saccnlibasis, but the apical whorls are 

 smaller, the penultimate whorl is much less swollen, in a dorsal view; 

 the shell is less distinctly striate, and is paler. The principal plica is 

 shorter in C. tokarana. 



In the specimens from Tokara-jima the superior and spiral lamclhe 

 are .separate<l, and tiie inward continuation of the inferior lamella 




582 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



parallel to the spiral lamella, is onl}' ver}' weakly developed, scarcely 

 noticeable. They constitute a ^Yeakly differentiated race. 



In those from the intermediate island Akuseki-jima, the superior 

 and spiral lamella? are ■\vealdy continuous — being, therefore, inter- 

 metliat^ in structure, as well as in geographic position, between the 

 forms from Suwanose and Tokara islands. Several specimens measure 

 as follows: 



Length 11.9, diam. 2.Smm.; whorls Sh. 

 10.0, " 2.9 " " 8. 



11.0, " 2.5 " " 9. 



Clausilia tokarana and its variety saccatibasis were taken in some 

 profusion, and probably inhabit the whole "Tokara group" of islets, 

 being known from Kuchino-shima, Nakano-shima, Suwanose-jima, 

 Akuseki-jima, and Tokara-jima. All of these islands are of volcanic 

 origin, the countr}^ rock being andesite. Nakano and Suwanose have 

 active volcanoes, while the others have extinct craters or traces of 

 them. 

 Clausilia tokarana saccatibasis n. subsp. PI. XXX, figs. 4, 5. 



The shell is somewhat fusiform, the upper half tapering and atten- 

 uate, the last two whorls of about equal diameter, strong and solid, 

 glossy, rich purplish-browfi with a paler or light hand along the suture, 

 indistinct in some specimens, but especially conspicuous in the earlier 

 whorls, which are corneous with a median dark hand. Whorls 9 to 9^, 

 quite convex, the second disproportionately large, the penultimate 

 whorl swollen (in a view from the back), the last very convex below, 

 sack-like, its last half much compressed laterally. Aperture ovate. 

 Peristome white, refle.xed, more or less thickened, continuous, the upper 

 margin notched over the superior lamella. The superior lamella is 

 small, compressed and vertical, continuous with the spiral lamella, 

 wiiich is very low throughout and penetrates inward but little past 

 a lateral po.sition. The inferior lamella is deeply innnersed, but 

 visible (in an oblique view in the mouth) as a high lamella. It is a 

 strongly spiral v.ide plate within the back of the la.st whorl, but 

 decreases suddenly above where it joins the parietal wall, then becom- 

 ing a low cord parallel to the spiral lamella, and of the same lengtii 

 inside. The subcolumcllar lamella emerges to the lip-odge. It does 

 not extend upon the parietal wall inside. The jjrincipal plica is short, 

 mainly dorsal, extending to the lateral lino. The upper palatal ])lica 

 is very short, connectal with the lateral lunella, which is strong, long, 

 its lower and curving far inward. There are two small sutural plicie. 

 a moderately long parallel lamella and a short fulcnnn. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 583 



Length 12.5 to 13.5, diam. 3.0 mm. 

 11, " 2.9 " 



Tlie clausilium is quite broad, rounded at the apex, deeply excised 

 on the columcllar side of the filament. Its curvature is cliiefi}' in the 

 part near the filament. 



Nakanoshima, Osumi. Types No. 95679 A. X. S. P., fr!)m No. 1515 

 of Mr. Hira.':e's collection. Also Kuchinoshima. 



Tiie type lot consists of very handsome, glossy, dark colored shells, 

 but there are some gray, corroded specimens among them, apparently 

 frc^m a different situation. The smallest measures, length 11.5, diam. 

 3 mm., and has the penultimate whorl strongly swollen, tiie last whorl 

 compressed (fig. 11, c). 



This form is closely related to C. tokarana, but fliffei's Isy its darker 

 color, swollen penultimate whorl, etc. It also resembles C. pattalus 

 of Tarama-jima and Miyako-shima, but it differs by having the penul- 

 timate whorl more swollen, the principal plica shorter, and the sub- 

 columellar lamella emerges. In both species the second whorl appears 

 disproportionately large. 



Examples from Kuchinosliima are corroded and dull, and have the 

 superior lamella separated rather broadly from the spiral lamella; 

 otherwise they do not differ from the types. 



The subspecies saccatibasis is confined to the two northern islands 

 of the Tokara group. 



Section IDIOZAPTYX n. sect. 



The shell is Zaptychoid externally. Superior lamella small, sepa- 

 rated from the much re<luce<l spiral lamella. Inferior lamella rece<ling, 

 ma.ssivc, almost straightly ascending within. Upper palatal plica 

 long, the lunella descending from near its inner end, and joining the 

 imier end of the lower palatal plica; fulcrum and parallel lamella short 

 but distinct; sutural plicce developed. Clausilium excised and bent 

 near the filament. parallel-si(le<l, rounded at the apex. Type C. 

 idioptyx. 



This section is relate<^^l to Diccraloptyx,- but it differs in having a well- 

 develope<I lunella, joining the lower palatal plica, in the straightly 

 a.scending inferior lamella, and the veiy different clausilium, which 

 is like that of Zuptyx. 



' Proc. A. N. S. Pliilu., 1901, p. 836. To the diagnoses of Diceratoj>ti/x slioiild 

 l)c added, a small lowrr palatal plica is developed; tlie inferior lamella ascends 

 in a l)road, sigmoid curve. 




584 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF U^^C-y 



Clausilia idioptyx n. sp. PI. XXX, fig. 1. 



The shell is quite small, fusiform, brownish-yellow, somewhat trans- 

 lucent; surface glossy, weakly striatulate, nearly smooth, becoming 

 strongly and coarsely striate behind the outer lip. 

 The spire tapers regularly from the penultimate 

 whorl to the obtuse apex. Whorls 8J to Sh, convex, 

 the last one compressed, tapering to the base. 

 Aperture ovate, with distinct, somewhat retracted 

 sinulus. Peristome reflexed, continuous. Superior 

 lamella very low, obtuse, short, very widely sepa- 

 rated from the spiral lamella, which is minute, and 

 Pig 12. lateral in position. Inferior lamella deeply receding, 



its base visible as a low fold in an oblique view in 

 the aperture. Within the back it is straight, ma.ssive, and ascends 

 obliquely, terminating abruptly on reaching the parietal partition. 

 The subcolumellar lamella emerges very weaklj', and in a lateral 

 position it forms an ascending angle, visible by transparence from the 

 outside. Fulcrum and parallel lamella'are visible as two equal, short 

 white folds about as far inward as the lunella. The principal plica 

 runs from near the mouth to a little beyond the lateral line. The 

 upper palatal plica is long, diverging forw^ardly from the principal 

 plica, its lower end visible in the aperture. The lower palatal plica 



Fip. 13. — Clau-siliviin of C. idiopt>/x. 



is short, parallel to the upper. Its iinicr end abuts against the lunella, 

 which joins the up))or palatal ])lica near its inner end. There are two 

 di.stinct sutural plica? and a very weak one between them, as usual 

 (fig. 12). 



I^ength 9.0, diam. 1.9 mm, 

 7.8, " 1.8 " 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 585 



The clausilium (fig. 13) is bent rather abruptly near the filament; 

 parallel-sided, the apex rounded; the external face is somewhat 

 swollen, inside concave. It is excised on the columellar side near the 

 filament. 



Nase, Oshima (Osumi). Types Xo. 95681 A. X. S. P., from Xo. 

 1505 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



With a general resemblance to Clausilia dadoptyx, this species Ls 

 entirely distinct from all known forms in the structure of the closing 

 apparatus. 



ExpL.\NATioN OF Plates XXX, XXXI, XXXll. 



Plate XXX — Fig. 1 — Clausilia idioptyx Pils. 



F'ig. 2 — Clausilia nakanoshimaria Pils. 

 Fig. 3 — " tokarami Pils. 

 Figs. 4, 5 — " tokarana saccalibasis Pils. 

 Fig. 6 — " hemileuca Pils. 

 Fig. 7 — '• echo Pils. 

 Figs, 8, 9 — " japonica ultima Pils. 

 Fig. 10 — " nakadm Pils. 

 Figs, 11, 12 — " japonica vespertina Pils. 



Plate XXXI — Figs. 1, 2 — Clausilia tripleuroptijx Pils. 



Figs. 3-5 — Clausilia jacobiana jacobiella Pils. .Vkusekijima. 



Fig. 6 — " " " Pils. Suwanosejima. 



Fig. 7 — " nishinoshimana Pils. 



Figs. 8-10 — " ikiensis tsushiTnana Pils. 



Fig. 11 — " hemileuca Pils. 



F'igs. 12, 13 — " agna spicala Pils. 



Figs, 14, 15 — '■ iosana Pils. Nametoko; lyo. 



Figs, 16, 17 — " " " Ushirohawa, Tosa. 



Figs, 18, 19 — " " " Shimohanyama, Tosa. 



Fig. 20 — " " " Irazuyama, Tosa, 



Plate XXXII — Figs. 1, 2, 3 — Clausilia formosensis holawana Pils. 

 Fig. 4 — Clauitilia formosensis H. Ad. Axikawa. 

 Figs, 5, 6 — " taiwanica Pils. 

 Fig. 7 — " swinhoei H. Ad. Kiirun. 



Figs. 8, 9 — " formosensis II. .\d. Hotawa. 

 Figs. 10, 11 — " swinhoei H. Ad. .Suganiikei. 




586 PROCEEDINGS OF THK ACADKMV OF [DcC-, 



NEW LAND MOLLUSCA OF THE JAPANESE EMPIRE. 

 BY H. A. I'lLSHRY AND Y. HIRASE. 



The present contribution includes species from the main island of 

 Japan, the Benin Islands, Ryukyu Islands and Formosa. Recent 

 explorations in the Tokara Group (small volcanic islets between 

 Oshima and Yakushima) have filled a gap in our knowledge of the land 

 snails of the northeastern islands of the Ryukyu Curve, the Clau- 

 siliidoc and operculate shells being especially interesting. 



Spiropoma japonicam tsushimanam n. subsp. 



The spire is slightly higher than in japonicum and the last whorl 

 descends more to the aperture. The cuticle is extremely finely and 

 densely striate, duller and darker than in japonicum; finally, the col- 

 umellar margin of the peristome is retracted more. 



Alt. 8, diam. 14.2 mm. 

 " 6.1, " 11.7 " 



Izuhara, Tsushima. Types No. 95762 A. N. S. P., from No. 1447a 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



The several species and local forms of Spiropoma are only very 

 slightly differentiate<i, and while the races of Tsushima, Quclpart, etc., 

 have a certain individuality appreciable to the eye, their differences 

 are of no groat importance. The generic type seems to be very con- 

 servative and inflexible. 

 Alyoaeus tsushimanas n. sp. 



The shell is quite depressed, otherwise shaped a.s usual in the sub- 

 genus Chamalyaeus; very pale reddish-brown or whitish. Spire low, 

 convex, the apex projecting a little, brown. Whorls 3^, the fii*st 1^ 

 smooth, the rest sculptured with extremely delicate, close tliread- 

 stria*; just before the constriction of the neck the striation is dis- 

 tinctly stronger, and on the neck it is more or less obsolete. Later 

 part of the la.st whorl is moderately swollen, then contracted, lieyond 

 the contraction the neck is swollen in the middle, then descends a little 

 to the aperture. The sutural "tube" is rather long, and veiy clo.sely 

 ftppres-scil, as if partially melte<l into the suture. Tiie aperture is very 

 oblique, circular. The peristome is strongly expaiidetl and reflexed, 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 587 



its face thickened and convex, the outer edge somewhat recurved. 

 It is appressed for a short distance to the preceding; whorl. The 

 rather wide umbilicus is elliptical. 



Alt. 3, diam. 5.8 mm. 



The operculum is somewhat concave externall}', and its whorls 

 bear elevated cuticular appendages or raised cord-like spirals, wanting 

 in the depressed central part/ which is generally filled with dirt. 



Tsutsu, Tsushima. Types No. 95737 A. X. S. P., from No. 1553 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This is larger than other known Japanese species, with a more 

 broaflly expanded peristome. It is related to the Korean A. cyclo- 

 phoroulcs Pils. and Ilir., but differs by having a distinct swelling in 

 the middle of the neck and in some minor details of sculpture and 

 shape. By the characters of the operculum it belongs to the subgenus 

 Metalyccsus. 



In a race of the same species found at Sasuna, Tsushima, the shell 

 Is smaller, the diameter varying from 4 to 5 mm. This small form is 

 No. 95738 A. N. S. P., No. 1553a of Mr. Hirase's collection. 

 Alycaeas tokunoshimanas prinoipialis n. subsp. 



The shell is much larger than A. tokunoshiTTuinus , more or less deeply 

 reildish-yellow tinted above, nearly white beneath, the embrj'onic 

 whorls golden. Whorls 3^, the last half of the last whorl very much 

 inflato<l, then contracte<l into a rather small neck, beyond which the 

 whorl is strongly deflexe<l. Very closely and finely thread-striatc, 

 more closely .so on the inflated portion. Neck strongly bent downward. 

 Peristome strongly reflc.\(Hl, thickened and bevelled on the face; 

 columellar border much narrower, its outer edge more or less straiglit- 

 eno<l. Alt. 3.3, diam, 5 nun. 



Oixachi, Oshima (Osumi). Types No. 95830 A. N. S. P., from No. 

 13306 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This is the finest development of the tokunoshwianus series. That 

 species was originally tlescril^cd from the smallest of the several forma 

 now known. 

 Alyoaeus tokunoshimanui medioorii n. subap. 



The shell is decidetily larger than A. Lokunoshitnanus, with the neck 

 bent downward more, and more coai-sely striate in frtmt of the con- 

 iraction. The sculpture of the neck is also coarser than A. t. prin- 

 cipuUis. Alt. 2.9, diam. 4.5 mm. 



Yorojima (Osumi). Types No. 8992G A. N. S. P., from .No. 1330 

 of Mr. Hirasti's collection. Also found on Ikejijima (No. 89927 A. N. 

 S. P., and 1330a coll. Hirasc), 




5SS PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



AlycsBus leevia n. sp. 



A Chatnalycmis resembling .1. tokunoshimanus in general form; 

 openly umbilicate; spire low, conoidal, the firet whorl projecting. 

 Whorls 3^, regularly increasing to the middle of the last whorl, where 

 it rapidly enlarges, becoming much inflated. The inflation is termi- 

 natetl by a moderately contracted neck whicli curves down to the 

 aperture. There is a prominent sweUing around the neck in the 

 middle. The "tube" is rather long and pressed into the suture. 

 The surface is smooth, lighth' markenl with growth-lines, but on the 

 inflation there are distinct fine and close striiE. The neck is smooth 

 and glossy. The aperture is very oblique; peristome expanded, 

 usually dilated to form a short lobe at the posterior angle. In fully 

 mature individuals an inner rim is built out shortly beyond the expan- 

 sion. Alt. 3, diam. 4 mm. 



Xakanoshima (Osumi). Types Xo. 95831 A. N. S. P., from No. 

 1514 of Mr. Hirase's collection. It occurs also on Suwanosejima. 



In having a smooth surface, marked with slight growth-lines only, 

 becoming striate on the inflation, this species is very distinct from 

 other Japanese and Ryukjoian forms. The rounded swelling on the 

 neck is a further distinguishing character. 

 Diplommatina paxillui ultima n. subsp. 



The shell is somewhat more robust than D. paxillus from Shanghai 

 or Cheju, Quelpart. The peristome is less angular at the foot of the 

 columella, — only very indistinctly so. The peristome is doubled, or 

 there Ls a \\Tinkle or two behind the outer lip. Adults vary from 

 re<ldish-brown to nearly white. 



Kashitake, Tsushima. Types No. 95662 A. N. S. P., from No. 1554a 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. Also taken at Kojeto (Island of Koje), 

 Korea, No. 95660 A. N. S. P., from No. 1531 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



D. paxillus (Gredler) is a very widely distributed species, ranging 

 from Hunan to the Korean Archipelago, with closely related forms 

 in Fonnosa and Tsu.sliinia. In the present state of our collections 

 it is not easy to define subspecies. A form from Mokpo, Korea (No. 

 1531a of Mr. Hirase's collection), is similar to the shells from Koje 

 Island, except that there is a distinct angle at the foot of the columella. 

 The form from Quelpart is ver}' close to typical Chinese D. paxillus. 



Diplommatina yonakunijimana n. sp. 



Tlio shell is narrow, the penultimate whorl nuicli the largest, those 

 above tapering in a rather long cone with straight sides; pale brown; 

 sculpture of delicate throa<l-like striic, wanting in the region of the 

 con-striction and on the la.st half or more of the last whorl. There are 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 589 



8 whorls, the first 5^ conve.v, regularly and slowly increa-sing; the next 

 enlarges more rapidly and is the widest, most convex whorl. It 

 contracts suddenly to the constriction, which lies one-fourth of a whorl 

 back of the peristome. The front of the last whorl has very widely 

 spaced strioe when unworn, but the last half is smooth and glossy. 

 It ascends ver}- little. The palatal plica is short. It is faintly visible 

 above the suture in the thinn^t shells, but most adults are too opaque 

 to show it externally. The aperture is subcircular, somewhat oblique. 

 Parietal callus thin, its edge scarcely thickened, ascending about half 

 way to the suture. Columellar lamella thin and small, its spiral con- 

 tinuation inward being thin and rather low. 



I-«ngth 3.1. diam. 1.4 mm. , 



Yonakuuijima, Osumi. Types No. 95675 A. N. S. P., from No. 1510 

 of Mr. Hira.se's collection. 



In this species the last fourth of the penultimate whorl, in front of 

 the constriction, is very narrow. It is related to D. kumejimana 

 P. and II., but diffei'S by its far more widely spaced riblets. 



Diplommatina okiensia tsushimana u. subsp. 



The shell is like D. collarijcra S. and B. in shape, but diffei'S as 

 follows: The delicate thread-like stria? of the last two whorls are 

 more widely spaced, and on the next earlier two whorls they are still 

 more spaced. The palatal plica is very short and Ues under the 

 parietal callus. The spiral columellar lamella within the last whorl is 

 thin and much lower than in colUirijira. D. okiensis is \cvy similar, 

 but tsushimana differs Ijy having the striie more widely spaced through- 

 out. The shell is pale brown, and resembles okiensis in the aperture 

 and collar. 



Length 3.9, diam. 1.9 mm.; whorls 6^. 



Tsutsu, Tsushima. Types No. 956G4 A. X. S. P., from No. 1554 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Diplommatina neiiotioa u. sp. 



A species of the subgenus Sinica. The lower two whorls form a 

 cylindric j)orti()n, those above taper rapidly in a straight-sided cone 

 about one-thirtl the total length of the shell. It is pale red or grayish- 

 white, with sculpture of very delicate hair-like stria), which are rather 

 closely placed on the la-st two whorls, more spaced on the two prece<ling. 

 Whorls slightly exceeding 0, quite convex, regularly ami slowly widen- 

 ing to the penultimate, which enlarges rapidly and is more swollen. 

 It contracts rather strongly to the constriction, which vari(>s in position 

 from submeilian in front to nearly over tiie inner etige of the columella, 

 as 




590 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [I>CC.. 



The last wliorl ascends moderately to the lip, and is usually worn nearly 

 smooth. The palatal plica is short, and either wholly to the left of 

 the parietal callus, or its inner half may be under the callus. The 

 aperture is rounded, a little longer than wide. Peristome thin, rather 

 narrow!}- reflexed, sometimes very indistinctly subangular at the 

 base of the colimiella. The parietal callus spreads rather extensively 

 upward . and has a thin, raised edge. The columellar tooth is so deeply 

 immei-setl that it is not visible in a front view. 



Length 3, cliam. l.S nun. 



Suwanosejima, Osumi. Types No. 95668 A. N. S. P., from No. 

 15S7 of Mr. Hirase's collection. Also found on the adjacent islands 

 Akusekijima and Nakanoshima, of the Tokara group. 



This species is related to D. saginata of Oshima and D. tancgasln'mcc 

 of Tanegashima, both of them much smaller species. D. tanegashimcv 

 is also more slender. D. saginata is a conmion and characteristic 

 species of Oshima. It is A-ery similar to D. ncsiotica but always much 

 smaller, so far as present collections show. 



Specimens from Akusekijima and Nakanoshima are a trifle smaller 

 than the types from the intermediate island Suwanosejima, measuring 

 2.5 to 2.8 nun. long. The palatal plica is slightly longer, ami in some 

 specimens the columellar tooth is visil:)le in a front view. 

 Diplommatina hirasei Pilsbry n. sp. 



The shell is large for a Sinica; the last two whorls, form more than 

 half tiie total length, are cylindric, upper portion conic with straight 

 sides. Whorls fully 6^, moderately convex, the last strongly ascending 

 in front, liaving a very strong, narrow ridge or collar a short distance 

 behind the lip, the back of the collar opaque whitish. CoiLstriction 

 very slight, median in front. Color dull red. Sculpture of very 

 delicate hair-like striie, closer and finer on the hist two whorls than on 

 the prccetling two, and usually worn from fully adult shells. The 

 aperture is circular, orange coloretl within; peristome refiexe<l and 

 Bomewhat thickened, contiiuied in a raised ledge across the parietal 

 wall, reaching to or almost to the suture. Palatal ))lica rather long and 

 wholly covered by the parietal callus. Columellar tooth strong, the 

 lamella within moderately high but thin. Internal parietal lamella 

 low. 



Length 4.75, diam. 2.5 mm. 



Gakuenji, Izumo. Types No. 95070 A. X. S. P., from No. 159() of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. Also Makuragisan, Izumo, No. 95()()9 A. N. 

 S. P. 



This largest (jf the Japanese Diplommatinas is in every way more 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. r>9] 



robust than D. collar if era S. and B. or D. okiensis l\ and H. It 

 further differs by having the parietal calhis extendetl nearly to the 

 suture, anil the palatal plica lies wholly or almost wholly under the 

 parietal callus. 



Eulota (Euhadra) contraria n. ep. 



The shell is depresse<l, biconvex, umbihcate, angular at the periphery, 

 tliin, greenish-yellow with a narrow dark red-brown band on the 

 peripheral angle and narrowly \'isible above the suture on the last 1^ 

 wliorls; inner whorls suffused ^\ith reddish-brown. Surface but 

 slightly shining. First 1| whorls, fonning the embryonic shell, are 

 convex, with a close sculpture of low granules arranged in obliquely 

 descending series. The next IJ^ whorls have weak growth-lines ami 

 minute, rather closely arranged papillae scarcely noticeable in some 

 specimens. The la.«!t two whorls have irregular growth-hnes. and some 

 shallow, irregular spiral sulci, most obvious on the base; there are also 

 minute papilla3 visiljle in places. Whorls 5^, the first H convex, 

 the rest convex below the suture, then flattene<l. The la.'^t whorl 

 scarcely descends in front, and is convex l)elow. The aperture is 

 f)blique, wide, lunate. Peristome white, the upper margin expanded, 

 the outer anil ba-sal margins rather narrowly reflexed. The parietal 

 callus is extremely thin. 



Alt. 15, diam. 26 mm. 

 " 14.3. " 25 " 



Koshun, .South Formosa. Typas \o. 95838 A. X. S. 1'., from No. 

 1581 of Mr. Hirawe's collection. 



This is a species of the A\ succincta group. E. formosensis diffei"s 

 by being more elevate<l, with the lip sinuous above and in having very 

 minute spiral striation on the last whorl. E. succincta is more com- 

 pact, with the la.st whorl narrower (viewed from above), and the 

 umbilicus is much smaller. The sculpture also diffei^s in various 

 details. 



A specimen of E. contraria a little Ic^s mature than the type lias the 

 last wiiorl re<ldish-brown, the spire i)aler. It is barnhnl like the type 

 specimen. Only 10 examples of this fine snail were taken. 



Eulota (Euhadra) piota ■> "C 



The shell is rather narn»wly umbilicat^, somewliat depres.sed, with 

 conic s[)ire; rather solid; pale yellow, with two broad dark reildish- 

 browii bauds, the upper baud extending from just below the i)eripherv 

 half way to the suture, and ascending the spire above the suture, the 

 Inst 2 or 2J whorls are therefore l)irolore<l above; on earlier wh(»rls the 




592 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



band becomes light reddish-brown and spreads over the surface of the 

 whorls. The basal band is wider than the other, fading out on its 

 inner edge. There is also a small umbilical patch of the same dark 

 color. The surface is somewhat glossy, the first 4 whorls having a 

 microscopic sculpture of minute raised points, regularly arranged 

 (as in Chloritis); last whorl marked with growth-lines, not punctate. 

 WHiorls 5^, moderately convex, very slowly ^^^dening, the last rounded 

 peripherally but showing the faint trace of a peripheral angle; not de- 

 scending in front; base somewhat flattened. The aperture is but 

 little oblique, wide, banded inside. Peristome narrowly reflexed, 

 colored by the bands, dilated at the columellar insertion, half con- 

 ceaUng the umbilicus. 



Alt. 22, diam. 30.2 mm. 

 " 20.7, " 29.0 " 



Yonakuni-jima, Ryukyu. Cotypes No. 95837 A. N. S. P., from No. 

 1507 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



A very handsome species of the caliginosa group, closely resembling 

 E. okinoerabuensis in shape, but the last whorl, viewed from above, 

 is narrower, and the minute sculpture of the spire is different. The 

 somewhat flattened base and the shape of the basal hp are features 

 like E. caliginosa. 



Eulota luhuana latispira n. subsp. 



Tlie sliell is large, bright greenish-yellow, with three brown bands, 

 coarsely striate, with the usual fine spiral lines. The spire is very 

 wide, whorls more slowly and more regular]}'' increasing than in luhuana 

 or senckenbergiana, the last whorl narrower. Umbilicus ample, regu- 

 larly tapering within. 



Alt. 30. fliam. 48 mm.; whorls 6^. 



Hakusan, Kaga. Types No. 83913 A. N. S. P., from No. 562a 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



The spiral bands may be dark and conspicuous or very pale. Tlie 

 lip is flesh colored, varying in shade in different sheUs. 



Eulota (JEgista) perang^ulata n. sp. 



The shell is umbilicate (width of umbiUcus contained 4^ times in 

 the diameter of the sheU), conic above, convex below, strongly angular 

 at the periphery; light brown, dull, finely striate, sometimes with some 

 very delicate, short, threa<l-like cuticular appendages on some of the 

 strirr* in places. Under the cuticle there are very fine spiral lines, 

 visible just in front of the parietal callus. WhorLs 6}, moderately 

 convex, slowly increasing, the last strongly angular perij)herally, the 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 593 



angle disappearing immediately behind the peristome. The whorl 

 scarcely descends in front, not angular around the umbilicus. The 

 aperture is rounded-lunate; peristome thin, forming three-fourths of 

 a circle; the upper margin is slightly expanded, outer and basal mar- 

 gins reflexed. Parietal callus merely a thin film. 

 Alt. 8.5, diam. 13.7 mm. 



Izuhara, Tsashima. Cotypes No. 95859 A. N. S. P., from No. 1551 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This is a strongly angular species of the E. aperta group. The 

 peristome i.s like that of E. aperta tumida. Neither E. aperta or E. 

 mimida is known from the island of Kyushu. 

 Trishoplita cretacea hypozona n. subsp. 



The shell is conic, white with a broad purplish-brown or rich reddish- 

 brown zone on the base. Tlie surface is rather finely striate, the striae 

 elegantly granulose, especially on the base. 



Alt. 14, diam. 17.8 mm.; whorls 6^. 

 " 12, " 16.8 " " 6. 



Mikuriya, Hoki. Types No. 95862 A. N. S. P., from No. 387a of 

 Mr. Ilirase's collection. It also occurs at Mihonoseki and Gakuenji, 

 Izumo, and at It.sukushima, Aki. 



The shell is generally in large part denudal of cuticle, as in T. 

 cretacea. The granules on the striae of the base are irregular, not 

 arranged in spiral lines. Some specimens from Izumo are smaller: 



AH. 12.2, diam. 16 mm.; whorls 6J. 

 " 10, " 14.5 " " 6. 



A single example seen fnjm the province Aki resembles hypozona 

 in shape and color, but differs in minute sculpture, the striie being 

 superficially cut by fine spiral lines, chiefly evident on the ba.se, in 

 place of the irregular granulation of typical hypozona. This form 

 (No. 87678 A. N. S. P., No. 1190 of Mr. Hira.se's collection) may be 

 found separable from hypozona, yet we prefer to refer it to that race 

 until more material can be brought together. 



T. c. hypozona iniiabits the provinces along the northern shore of 

 the western end of the main islaml of Japan, 

 Ganesella albida moUioula n. subsp. 



The slioll is larger than G. albida, thinner, more transparent, bluish- 

 milky above the keel, transparent yellowish below, sculptured quite dis- 

 tinctly with close microscopic spiral linos; base decide<lly more convex 

 than in alh'uhi. the mouth and columella being loiiL^'r: whorls more 

 niunerous. 




ol>4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Lpiigth 21, diam. 14.5 mm.; whorls 6^. 



TOshun, South Cape of Formosa. Type No. 95753 A. X. S. 1'.. from 

 No. 15S4 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



The typical measurements of G. albida (H. Ad.) are alt. 15, diam. 

 14 mm. An example of the typical form from Sammaipo before us 

 measures, alt. 14.5, diam. 12 mm., whorls 5^. Only three examples 

 of G. a. mollicula were taken. 

 Ennea iwakawa yonakunijimana n. subsp. 



Closely related to E. i. miijakojimaiia P. and H., but the aperture 

 is more contracted by the large teeth, and the spire tapers more, being 

 widest below the middle, at the penultimate whorl. Whorls 6J to 

 1\. 



Length 4, diam. 1.9 mm. 



Yonakuniiima, Loochoo. Types No. 95715 A. N. S. P.. from No. 

 1511 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Petalochlamys rejeota (Pfr.). 



Helix rejecla Pfr., P. Z. S., 1859, p. 25, No. 9, pi. 43, fig. 1; Monograpliia 



Hel. Viv., V. 142. 

 Microcystis'! rejecta Allldff., Jahrb. D. M. Ges., X, p. 365. 

 Ilyalina mamillaris Heude, Moll. Terr. Fleuve Bleu, 1SS2, p. 15, pi. 19, fig. 8. 



This species was described from a specimen taken by Robert For- 

 tune in "northern China." Dr. von Moellendorff has pointed out 

 that most of the shells discovered by Fortune are from places inland 

 from Shanghai, toward the tea district of Wu-yuan in the Province 

 An-hui. Hangchow, where several of Fortune's species occur, such 

 as Pledotropis brevibarbis, is between Shanghai and Wu-yuan. A 

 Pcldloclddmi/s from Hangchow, taken by Mr. Nakada, agrees with 

 l^feiffer's description of H. rcjcda. 



I'ig. 1. I', rrjrrtd Pfr., Ilanprliow, ("Iiiiia. 



The slicll is strongly dcpre.sscd, with very low-conic spire; of the 

 usual thin substance and of a greenish-yellow color above, subtrans- 

 paront, the base perceptibly paler. The miibilicus is extremely 

 riarrow, its width eontalned about 12 times in that of the shell. The 

 .surfafc is j)olislic(l, and shows imder a compound microscope very 




1908.] XATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 595 



close, engrave* 1 spiral lines, chiefly below the suture, wanting on the 

 fii"st whorl, and becoming weak on the last whorl and the base. 

 Large specimens have just 5 whorls; these increase rather slowly to 

 tlie last which is verj'wide — wider than in related species. Seen from 

 above the spire is small, its diameter hardly 46 per cent, of the total 

 diameter of the shell. The last whorl is equally rounded at the 

 periphery. The aperture is. broadly lunate. 



Alt. 7, greater diam. 13.5, lesser 11.3 mm. 



The specimens describetl and figured are from Hangchow, Chekiang 

 I'rovincc, China; Xo. 95800 A. N. S. P., from No. 1476 of Mr. Ilirase's 

 collection. ' ' 



P. rejccta is relate<l to P. plamila and P. planata of Heude, but 

 viewe<l from above the la.st whorl is wider than in either of these 

 sj)ecies, both of which moreover are smaller. Dr. O. von Moellendorf 

 found rcjeda in Lii-shan, near Kiukiang. P. Fuchs collected it in 

 southern Hunan and northern Guangdmig, and Father Heude de- 

 scribed specimens from the former locality as //. rnamillaris, a species 

 whicii von Moellendorff referred to rejeda as a synonym. The first 

 publishc<l record of rcjeda, after the original reference, was by A. 

 Adams, who identifietl it from Tsushima {Annals and Magazine of 

 \nlural History, 4th series, I, 1868, p. 467). Among difficult and 

 critical species an identification by Adams has slight value, ^'^on 

 .Martens, Ileinhardt and Kobclt have repeated Adams' record, but 

 without further confirmation. I do not know the locality of the 

 specimen figured by Dr. Reinhardt. Kobelt has copied these figures. 

 (hi the whole, it seems hazardous to admit P. rejeda to the fauna of 

 Japan or Korea without better evidence than we now have. It will 

 probably prove to be peculiar to China, especially in the district below 

 the mouth of the Yangtze, in An-hui and Chekiang Provinces. At 

 all events, the somewhat similar Petalochlamijs known to us from 

 Tsushima is certainly a species distinct from P. rcjeda. 



Petalochlamys subrejeota n up. 



MiuTorlildrni/n rijrila l»fr.. Minujc, The Couch. .Majrazine, II, p. 5, pi. i;{^ 



fig. 13, nut Itrlijr rrjeria Pfr. 

 MiirrorhhitntfHsuhrejecla Pi Is. and nir.,Conch. Mag., II, p. 76 (no description). 



Shell depressed, very narrowly umbilicate, very thin and fragile, 

 glos.'^y, of a pale brown tint, or very pale greenish-yellow. The sur- 

 face is weakly marked with growth-lines, and under the compound 

 micro-scope shows very fine, close, superficial spiral stria*, wanting on 

 the first whorl, becoming weak on the last whorl. The spire is low- 

 conoidal, wide; its diameter, viewe«l from above, is 58 per cent, the 




596 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



total diameter of the shell. Wliorls 5J, slowly increasing, the last 

 much wider, rounded at the periphery. The suture is narrowly trans- 

 parent-margined. Umbilicus very small, its diameter contained about 

 20 times in that of the shell. Aperture lunate. 



.\lt. 7.6, greater diam. 13.2, lesser 12 nmi. 



Sasuna, Tsushima. Types No. 95802 A. N. S. P., from No. 1549a 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. Also found at Fusan, Korea. 



Fig. 2. — p. subrejecta. 



Compared with the Chinese P. rejecta, this species is less depressed 

 and has, \iewed from above, a much wider spire and narrower last 

 whorl. The aperture is consequently higher and less dilatetl laterally. 

 The spiral sculpture is not quite so deeply engraved, and the umbilicus 

 is wider than in P. rejecta, though still very narrow. P. subrejecta 

 is proljably the shell A. Adams reported from Tsushima as Macro- 

 chlamys rejecta Pfr. 



PetalochlamyB serenus n. sp. 



The shell is depressed, very narrowly umbilicate, amber colored, 

 subtransparent, very fragile. The surface has delicate, close micro- 

 scopic engraved spirals both above and below. Sj^ire slightly convex; 

 whorls 4, but slightly convex, slowly increasing to the last, which is 

 much wider, rounded peripherally. The suture is narrowly trans- 

 parent-margined. Aperture lunate, columellar lip triangularly dilated 

 at the in-sertion, thin; columella vertical. 

 Alt. 2.8, greater diam. 4.7, lesser 4 mm. 



Kaminoyama, Kmichan, Okinawa. Types No. 95809 A. N. S. P., 

 from No. 1441 of .Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This small, very fragile shell is related to P. doenitzi (Reinh.), 

 but the last whorl is wider in a view from above, and is sonicwhnt 

 more ample. 

 Petalochlamys perfragilis sakni Hub^p. n. 



The shell is more depressed than P. pei-lragilis and P. p. shilco- 

 kuensis, and is a little more openly umbilicate. Surface brilliantly 

 poli.shcil, alino«t smooth, but under a comjiound microscope very 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 597 



faint traces of spiral stria may be seen in some places, and on the base 

 of the last whorl these incised spirals sometimes become distinct. 

 The suture is white-eilged. 



Alt. 8.7, greater diam. 15, lesser 13.2 mm. 



Yaku-shima (Osumi), types No. 85729 A. X. S. P., from No. 1081 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. It also occurs on Kuchinoerabu-.'^hinia 

 (Osumi). 



Kaliella gudei matsuensia n. subsp. 



The .'^hell is perforate, conic, having an acute periplicral keel, visil^le 

 on tlie spire a.^ a thread in the suture; irregularly striatulate and glo.s.*y. 

 Whorls 4| to 5, convex. Aperture lunate, truncate at the ends. 

 Columellar margin vertical, shghtly thickenetl, reflexed at the insertion. 



Alt. 3.3, diam. 4.7 mm. 



Osoreyama, Mutsu. Types No. 96178 A. N. S. P., from No. 1445 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Tliis form diffci-s from A', (judci liy the number of whorls and much 

 smaller size. The whorls are more convex than in K. ceratodcs (Gude), 

 and the columella is le.ss callou.sed. In A', koshinoshimana the whorls 

 are more clcsely coiled. A. g. 7nutsuensis differs from A. sororcula 

 by its vertical columella, that of A. sororcula being oblique to the shell- 

 axis. 



Kaliella subcrenulata latsumaua n. »ub»i>. Fig. 3. 



A ionu decidedly larger than A. subcrenu- 

 lata. Under the compound microscope there 

 are seen to be fine thread-like vertical stri;e 

 on the upper surface and on a band below 

 the perii)heiy. The rest of the base is glossy, 

 but shows a few fine spiral lines. 



.\lt. 2.3, diam. 3.25 mm. Fig. 3. 



Yamakawa. Satsuma. Types No. 96176 

 A. N. S. P., from No. l.')!)3 of Mr. Hirase's collcclioii. 



Kaliella longiiiima n. bi>. Fig. 4. 



The slicU is minutely perforate, conic-turrit«, with nearly straight 

 lateral outUncs and obtuse summit; pale yellowish, subtransparent. 

 Surface gla«!.sy, almost smooth. Whorls 9i, very slowly increa*<iiig, 

 nuxlerately convex, the last rounded peripherally, though there is a 

 very delicate thread-like keel. Base convex. Aperture semilunar, 

 the columella vertical, with refle.xed e<lge. 



Alt. 4.25, diani. 2.3 nun. 




5*.>S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



SasuiKi. Tsusliinia. Types No. 9G177 A. \. S. P., from No. 1556 of 

 yiv. Ilirase'.s collection. 



This is the most lengthened Japanese Kaliella 

 known to us, being much longer than K. prcBalta. 

 The Indian A', elongata G.-A. has about the same 

 proportions, but differs by its strongly keeled last 

 whorl, the convex outlines of the spire, etc. 



KalisUa boninensis n. sp. 



The shell is perforate, depressed, the spire con- 



vexly conoidal, with obtuse, rounded summit, base 



convex, the periphery angular; brown. Surface 



rather dull above, more glossy beneath; first half 



whorl smooth, next whorl sharply striate and 



I- ig. 4. decussated with fine spiral lines ; following whorls 



are densely, finely and sharply striate, with very 



faint traces of spiral lines in places; the base is smoothish, but not much 



polished; sho\\ing faint traces of spiral lines in places. Whorls 3^, 



moderately convex. 



Alt. 1.75, diam. 2.66 mm. 



Anijima. Ogasawara (Bonin Islands). Types No. 95867 A. N. S. P., 

 from No. 1500 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This small species is not closely related to any known Ogasawaran 

 or Japanese form. Whether it really belongs to KalicUa is perhaps 

 doul)tful. 



Sitala ultima n. sp. 



The shell is perforate, conic, with the last whorl large; very fragile, 

 auiljer colored, rather shining, with a silky luster above, more glossy 

 below. Sculpture of excessively fine, close vertical striae decussated 

 by very delicate spirals, the base having engraved spiral lines. The 

 spire is straightly conic. Whorls A\, convex, the last angular at the 

 periphei-y in front, becoming infiated and rounded in the last half. 

 Ba.se rather convex. 



Alt. 2.:j, (liam. 2.9 mm. 



Kaminoyama, Uzen. Types No. 95908 A. N. S. P., from No. 1443 

 of Mr. Hiraso's collection. 



Tliis delicate snail is smaller than the related S. reinhardti, and has 

 much more distinct microscopic sculpture. It lives farther north than 

 any other known Sitala. 

 Ena lachaana neiiotica n. subap. 



The shell is rimate, very thin, purplish-brown, more or less flecked 

 with yellow on the upper whorls, by incipient disintegration of the 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 599 



cuticle. The spire tapers regiilarly to the small but obtuse apex. 

 Whorls 7^. The earliest whorls are worn but seem to be smooth. 

 On the third whorl very fine, close spiral striae appear, and by the 

 decussation of growth-lines the surface becomes minutely granular. 

 The last whorl or two are more coarsely closely granulose. The aper- 

 ture is slightly obUque, dark iaside; peristome expanded, slightly 

 thickene<l within, white. Columella dilated and forked above. Parie- 

 tal callus very thin and transparent. 



Length 17, diam. 7.0 mm. 

 17.2, " 6.9 " 

 16, " 7.0 " 



Kuroshima, Osumi. Types No. 95768 A. X. S. P., from Xo. 1546a 

 of Mr. Hira«e's collection. Also Yakushima, X^o. 1546 of Mr. Hirase's 

 collection, 95769 A. N. S. P. 



This form differs from Ena luchiMna and E. I. oshimana by the dark 

 coloration, without light streaks, and the more pronounced granula- 

 tion. The specimens from Yakushima seem to be identical in all 

 respects with those from Kuroshima. 




600 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



ON THE MELOID^ OF ANGOLA. 

 BY F. CREIGHTUX WKLL.MAN, M.D. 



While ileterniiiiing: a collection of Angolan .specimens of Coleoptera of 

 the family Meloiilte recently collected by mj-self, I have had occa.sion 

 to go somewhat thoroughly into the literature of the subject and also 

 to compare the material in the British Museum, the Hope Department of 

 Oxford University, the Koniglichcs and the National Museums in Berlin, 

 the National Museum at Washington, and several private collections ; 

 so it seems that the results, together Mith my collecting notes, may 

 be of sufficient interest to publish along with the descriptions of the 

 new forms that have come to fight. 



Our present knowledge of the Meloidte of Angola, it may be said, is 

 ilue principally to three collections, \'iz., the Sch6nlein-Gro.ssbendtner 

 collection described by Erichson, the Welwitsch collection, the Meloid 

 material of which was described by Marseul, and the collection made 

 by von Hohmeyer and Pogge and described b)^ Harold. My own 

 collection — describe<l in the present paper — is now added. Besides 

 these there are a few single descriptions by various authoi-s, which will 

 be found in their places in the present list. It is possible that some 

 of the more recent records have escaped my attention. Of the four 

 collections named above, by far the most complete is that of Welwitsch, 

 which, like all the collections of this gifted naturalist, is of the highest 

 scientific value. 



I have recently, in collaboration with Dr. Walther Horn of Berlin, 

 publi.shefl a memoir containing a short (lescri|)tion of the region under 

 consideration and some account of its zoogeographical features and 

 shall content myself with referring to that paper,' only oi>serving here 

 that with the exception of two new species, viz., Mylabris {Advnndia) 

 deserticola Wellman (from the littoral region) and Mylabris cln'sam- 

 bensis Wellman (from the high inland plateau), all the Angolan Meloi'die 

 colIecte<l Ijy rue are from the mountain slojjcs intermediate between 

 the interior alpine region and the low-lying coastlands. 



Some of the habita of the beetles are most interesting. 1 shall n(jt 



' On tin- Ciciiicl«'Iincp of Angola, by F. CroiRliton WrUinan, M.D., T.E.S., and 

 \V:.Itl,. r Honi, M.D., Pror. Arml. \ul. Sri. Phila., \ov<-inl>.T, 190.S, pp. .504 -.5 12 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 601 



sjjeak here of the remarkable ilkistrations of mimicry and warning 

 colors afforded by the Angolan specie-s, as I have already in preparation 

 a pajier on these questions, in collaboration with Prof. E. B. I'oulton, 

 F.R.S., of Oxford Univei"sity, England. I may periiaps with advan- 

 tage, however, refer at this time to the most important food plant of the 

 Angolan MeloTdte. This is a small Roseaceous annual which Prof. Engler 

 kindly infoniied me in BerUn last summer was a species of Tnbulus 

 ( T. zeylieri) which is widely distributed in tropical Africa. Througliout 

 the desert belt of Angola (which extends from the sea to a point 30 

 to 100 miles inland according to the configuration of the country) 

 this plant occurs in enormous masses and is the most important and 

 indeed almost the only food supply of the ^IcloiVla^ of the region. 

 Most of the genera represented eat it — Mylabris {Cerodis, Adcnodia, 

 Coryna, Deaipotoma), Lytta, etc. There are great patches of the 

 yellow blooms and these reveal thousanils of beetles; sometimes 

 almost every plant has one or more beetles. Some of the more com- 

 mon species like Mylabris dentata Olivier, Mylabris (Adenodia) chryso- 

 melinu Erichson. Mylabris pluvialis Wcllman, Mylabris (Dccapotofna) 

 regis Thomas and Mylabris (Coryna) 12-pund.ata Chevrolat can be 

 obtaine<l in almost endless numbci"s, and the yellow faeces of the 

 lu'ctles may be seen over the groimd like numerous small dot.s. It is 

 interesting to note that in-sects like these, which are during their larva» 

 stages all parasitic on other iasects, should have such an intimate 

 relation in their imaginal stage to certain i)lants. Lyttini in their 

 early stages feed on the eggs of Orthoptera and .Mylaijrini on the young 

 of the same order of insects. In Angola these beetles occur shortly 

 before or about the time when the young Locustithe and Acrididie 

 become numerous, the first rains doubtless having something to do 

 with the hatching of them all. The appearance of the adult Meloida) 

 is almost exactly .synchronous with the flowering of the Tribidus, 

 which lasts only a few weeks, and sliould the beetles be too earlv or 

 too late in their appearance they (being flower feeders) nuist inevitably 

 perish from want of foixl in this desert region where only this one 

 species of Tribulus* (which is apparently fertilizeil by the beetles 

 them.selves) is abundant enough to sui)p()rt such vast numbers of 

 itjsects. We see here another illustration of jiow in the economy of 

 nature the interdependence of several organisms mav i)e very chxse 



' I hftvr rrmnrkrd on the relation of this flower to Angolan .Muloiduj Ixfore 

 tlif DfMil.scli. Kntoiiiol. (ic.Ht'llncliaft. rid. report in Deutsch Ent Zeit.se/iriff 

 VM>i |). <'.17. 




602 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dt'C. 



and the atljustment of life to environment ven* ilelicate. Other notes 

 on the habits of the various species need not be discussed here, but will 

 be found with the mention of the various species. 



Following is a list of the species occurring in Angola, so far as 1 have 

 been able to verify the records. When I have had occasion to compare 

 material with original types I have usually indicated where sucli types 

 are to be found. It may be mentioned that in the records and sj'n- 

 onymy all names from Dejean's Catalogue have been ignored, as have 

 MS. names, since the recognition of such serves only to perpetuate 

 confusion. A set of cotypes (with the exception of three uniques) 

 of the new forms describetl in this paper has been depositeil in the 

 collection of the United States National Museum. Probably a few of 

 the species now included under Mylahris (sens, str.), and of which I 

 have been unable to trace the tjqD&s, will later have to be distributed 

 among the various subgenera which I have recognized. 



/ 



Fani. MELOID^ 

 Subfani. LYTTlX.i:. 



Tribe MYLABRINI. 



Genus UYLABRIS Fabr., Syst. Ent., 1775, p. 261. 



Subgenus 1. ACTEN'ODIA Cast., Hist, des Ins., II, 1840, p. 268. 



Syn. Actenoda Erichs., Wiegni. Arch., IX, 3, 1843, p. 257 (? ex error). 

 Syn. Arithmema Chevr., Ic. Regn. anim., Ill, p. 384. 



Subgenus 2. CORYNA Billb., Mon. Mylabr., 1813, p. 73, nota. 



Syn. Hyclews Latr., Regn. anim., Ed. I., 1817, p. 314. 



Subgenus 3. DECAPOTOMA Voigts, Wien. Ent. Zeit.. XXI. p. 177. 



Syn. Decatoma Cast., Hi.st. des Ins., II, 1840, p. 268 (nee Spinola). 



Subgenus 4. MYLABRIS Fabr., Syst. Ent., 177.i. p. 261 (sens, strict.). 



Subgenus 5. CEROCTIS Mars., .\beille, VII, 2. 1870, p. 168. 



Syn. Mimesthes Mars., Mem. Soc. Sci. Li^ge, 1872, p. 566. 



Subgenus 6. LYDOCERAS Mars., Abeille. VII, 2, 1S70. p. 12. 



The following artificial table based on the aritemial characters may 

 be useful in separating these subgenera of Mylahris: 



A. — Antennae with from eight to eleven joints, last joints inflate<l 

 into a clul)-s!iaped mass. 

 n. — Antenna' moniliform. 



Antenna' eieht-joiiito<l Actenodi.a. 



Antenna' nine-jointed Coryna. 



Antenna* ten-jointed, Decapotoma. 



Antenna' eleven-j()into<l Mylahris (s. str.). 



(1(1. — Antenna; serrate. 



AiitenniP cIcven-jointtMl, ("kroctis. 



AA. — Antenna' with eleven jftints, last joints not iiiflatcil. 



Antenna; somewhat flattene<l I.ydoceh.as 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 603 



.Subgenus ACTENODL\ Cast. 



1. Mylabris < A.i chrysomelina Erichs. Wiegm. Arch. f. Naturg., 1843. p. 258. 



Angola (Erichson), Loanda, Bengo (Welwitsch), Mossamedes 

 (Axchieta), Ganiba, Marcli. 1908. 341 specimens (Wkllman), All the 

 specimens were taken on the flowers of Tribulus zeyheri. Type in 

 Berlin Konigliches Museum, marked onlocality label "Angola, Schonli." 



2. Mylabris (A.) deserticola Wellm. ^ec. nov. 



\i(jra, eloii'jalu, pallido-pubescens; elijtris nigris, paiictulatis, pone 

 basin et humerale flavo-maculatis undidatimque bifasciatis, fascia anteri- 

 ore flava, posteriore fidva; prothorace cl capite fortiler punctaiis, illo 

 medio breviter fovcolato; anienmirum articulis 1, 2, 6, 7, 8 nigris, 3. 4, 5 

 testaceis; pedes testacei, genicidis tarisque nigris. 



Long. Corp. 8 mm. 



Lat. clytr. 3} mm. 



Ilab. Benguella (.Africa) ab auctorc coUecta. 



Typ. in coll. mea. 



Small, graceful .species; head black, rather strongly puncturctl and 

 with a few scattered minute pale haii"s ; labrum emarginate, rather hairy ; 

 mandibles fuscous, maxillary palpi with apical joint obliquely truncate 

 and nearly twice as long as peiuiltimate, labial palpi short, eyes large, 

 antcniHC with first two joints black, 2(1 to 5th testaceous, 6th to Stli 

 black, rather spai"sely covered with .short fine white haii"s and a few larger 

 black ones, the hist joint more closely covered with .short fine white hail's ; 

 thorax black rather sparsely and strongly punctured, clothed with pallitl 

 hairs, in the center at the basal third is an elongate fovea about J 

 the length of the thorax; scutcllian small, with a few short jxiUid haii-s; 

 elytra l>lack irregularly punctulate, pallidly villose, with a large yellow or 

 pale orange spot at the base of each elytron, and two traasvei'se irregular 

 bands, one of a yellow color a little in front of the middle and the other 

 (jf an orange re<l color about half way between the middle ban<l and the 

 apex of the elytron; at the humeral margin of the elytron is a spui 

 smaller and narrower than the basal spot, this is connecte<l by a 

 narrow marginal band to the middle traiLsverse fascia; legs testaceous 

 witli a rather l)road apical black band to the femora, a much narrower, 

 occasionally nearly obsolete i)lack apical band on the tibiic and tarsi, 

 the la'^t tarsus being sometimes almost entirely black; the under side 

 of the botly is black. 



Tyi)e in my collection : cotype (paratyi)e) Cat. No. 12119, V. S. \. .M. 



Five specimens of this pretty little species were taken in the desert 

 just outside of the city of Benguella in March, HK)S. They were all 

 on a leafless shrub and their Umh\ jdant is unkiKtwn. It sceme*! pro- 




ti04 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC, 



blematical what they could find to feed on in that dried-up region. 

 Tliere is a series of specimens without name in the Konighches Museum 

 in Bcrhn. 



3. Mylabris (A.) jaounda Erichs., Wiegm., Arch. f. Naturg., I, 1843, p. 257. 



Angola (Erichson), Angola, Benguella (Marseui<). 



Type in Beriin, Konigliches ^luseum, marked "Angola, Schonh." 



Subgenus CORYNA Billb. 



4. Mylabris (C.) ambigna Gerst., Wiegm. Arch. f. Naturg., XXXVII, p. 68. 



Gamba, March, 190S, 2 specimens (Wellman). 

 This species was originally described from Zanzibar and jjlaced b}' 

 its author as a Mylabris. 



Type in Berlin, Konigliches Museiun. 



5. Mylabris (C.) chevrolati Beaur., Les Ins. Vds., 1890, p. 523. 



Hl/clcEus duodccimpunclata Chevr., Guer. Ic. regn. anim., p. 132, tab. 3.5, fig. 3 



(nee Oliv.). 

 Hycleus decimguttatus Cast., Hist. Nat. des Ins., II, p. 268. 



Gamba, March, 1908, 72 specimens (Wellman), 

 Originally descril^ed from Senegal. 



6. Mylabris (C.) hermaniiiaB Fabr., Ent. Syst., I, 2, p. 89. 



Mylabris affinis Oliv., Ent., Ill, 47, p. S, tab. 2, fig. IG. 

 Angola — "aus dem inneren" — (Pogge). 

 Described from Guinea. 



7. Mylabris (C.) mylabroides Cast., Hist. Nat. des Ins., II, p. 208. 



Mylabris lanuginosa Gerst., Monatsb. Berl. Aead., 1854, p. 695. 

 Angola (M.\rseul). 

 The type of lanuginosa is in Berlin, Konigliches Museum. 



8. Mylabris iC.> posthnma Mars., Mem. Soc roy. Sci. Lidge, 1872, p. 603. PI. N'l, lig. 6. 



.\ngola, Bengale = ? Bangala (Marseul), Loanda, Bengo (Wel- 

 wiTscH), Huinbe, Huilla (Anchieta), Gamba, March, lUOS, 308 

 specimens (Wellman). 



On the flowers of Tribulus zcgheri. 



It is possil)le that mixta Mars, from "Caffraria" is a variety of 

 jH)sthutnft. 

 'J Mylabris (C.) Urgemina MarM., .Mem. Scic. roy. Sci. Li(5ge, 1872. p. 613. 



.\ng(jla (.Marseul). 



Subgenu.H DFOCAI'OTO.MA V..igt«. 

 I'). MyUbril (D.; decorata Erichn., Wienm. Arch. f. .Naturg., 1843, p. 2.56. 



Angola (Krich.son), Benguella (Marseul), Loaiida (Wki.witscm), 

 I/oanda (IIoh.meyer), Huilla (Anchieta). 

 Ty|)e in Berlin, Konigliches Museum. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 605 



11. Hylabris I'D.) ohiyakensis Wellm. spec. nov. 



\i(jr(t, tirtjcnko-rillosa, caput et thorax obscure inridi-coerulescentia, 

 subtiliier punctata, pallido-intlosa; elytra nigra, argenteo-villosa; rittis 

 duabus {altera dorsali, altera 7tmrginali; ilia medium attingente ad 

 apicem valde dilatata, hac medium subattingente minus dilatata) macu- 

 lisquc duabus {altera dorsali, altera marginali) iider medium et apicem 

 positis: corpus infra pedesque- nigra {femora pallido-hirsuta, tibiiv fiavo- 

 sericeae) pedes postici elongati. 



Long. Corp. 12 mm. 



Lot. elytr. 4 mm. 



Ilab. Chiyaka. Angola (Africa) ab auctore collecta.. 



Typ. in coll. mea. 



-Metlium sized species; head and thorax dark greenish-blue, finely 

 piincture<l and clothefl with long jiale hairs; eyes large, very convex; 

 antcnnfr with first two joints shining, the rest dull; scutellum almost 

 semicircular; elytra black, finely punctured, clothed with pale, silvery 

 haii-s; on each elytron a dorsal and marginal broad yellow line, both 

 dilat(Hl at the posterior termination, the former reaching past the 

 middle of the elytron and strongly dilated into a large traiLSveree spot; 

 the latter not reaching to the middle of the elytron and le.«;s strongly 

 dilated. In some specimen.s the doi-sal vitta is interrupted, the ter- 

 minal dilatation then becoming an isolated spot and the vitta remain- 

 ing shorter than the marginal one. Half way between the terminal 

 inflati(»M of the doi-sal vitta and the ape.x of the elytra a large, some- 

 what transverse spot; a smaller transverse spot opposte it at the iiiar- 

 gin. The legs and abdomen arc clothed with rather long, pale hail's, 

 the tibi:e l>eing closely covennl with shorter and yellower hail's. The 

 hind legs are very long. 



Type in my collection; cotype Cat. No. 12120. l^. S. \. M. 



There also occurs a variety of this species which may be briefly 

 characterize<l as follows: 

 Mylabrii 'D.) chiyakenait Mir t«kama Wpllm vnr nov 



I'/ZZ/.s (lorsalibus nullis tnaculisquc minorihiis. 



Typ. in coll. mea. 



The very striking re<luction of the yelhiw markings giv(^ at first 

 glance the impression of a different species. The name is ;» local 

 Bantu word referring to the dull color. 



Mighty-one .sjx'cimens of this interesting species were taken in 1 rb- 

 ruary. liK),S, chiefly on (lowers of Composita\ In life the antenna' are 

 held farther for\vard than in most Mylabrini, giving the insect a some- 

 what peculiar aspect. 

 .V.) 




606 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [I>t'('-, 



12. Mylabris (D."i elendensis Wellm. spec. nov. 



Nigra, elongata. argenteo-siibpubescens, capite prothoraccquc cnbre 

 punctatis, hoc subimpresso; antennis ingris; elytra nigra, vittis diiabiis 

 flavis (vitta dorsali ad apicem subiter, vitta marginali non, dilutata) 

 maculisque 2 posticis, oblique positis, ornatis; pedes 7ngri, argenteo- 

 sericei; abdomen nigrum. 



Long. carp. 12 mm. 



Lat. elytr. S\ mm, 



Hab. Chiyaka (Mt. Elende), Angola, Africa; ab auetore collecta. 



Typ. in coll. mea. 



Slender species; head (incliifling antenna) and mouth parts) black, 

 closely punctured with pale villosity, eyes large, hemispherical ; anten- 

 nce black, thorax black, punctured like head, pubescence pale, feebly 

 impressed in the median line at its posterior third; scutellum large; 

 elytra black, more coarsely punctured than the head and thorax, 

 palely villose, with yellow markings disposed as follows: two dorsal 

 vittae, one on each elytron, not reaching to the posterior third of eh^- 

 tron; here it is angularly deflexed externally, forming the vitta into an 

 obtuse angled hook ; midway between this hook-like deflexion and the 

 apex of the elytron is a large blotch longer than wide and lying at the 

 same angle as the bent end of the vitta; a marginal vitta on each 

 elytron distinctly shorter than the dorsal, and a small marginal spot 

 just opposite the ante apical dorsal blotch; legs and under side of body 

 black both clothed with pale hairs, the former closely beset with sjiorter 

 hairs, the latter more sparsely set with long hairs. 



Two specimens taken at Mt. Elende, Chiyaka, Noveml^or, 11MI7. in 

 a large orchid, 



13. Mylabris (D.) omega Mars., Mdra. Soc. roy. Sci. Lidge, 1872, p. 585, pi. VI, fig. 11. 



Loanda (Welwitsch), Huilla (Anchieta). 



14. Mylabris CD.) regis Thos., Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., 6, XIX, 1897, p. 1897. 



Angola (Welwit.sch), Gamba, March, 1908, 102 specimens (Well- 

 man). 



On the flowers of Tribulus zcgheri. 

 Type in London, British Museum, 



15. Mylabris (D,) temporalis Wellm. «pec. nov. 



Nigra, elongata subcylindrica , pilis argenleis hirta; capite prothora- 

 ceguc nir/ris sxdMitcr punrtulatis, argenteo-villosis, illo lato (tcinpora 

 infUita el rotundalu), hoc medio forliler joveolato; antennis articulis 

 2 primis nigris, reliquis obscure brunneis; clytris nigris, foriiter punc- 

 iulatis urgenteo-villosis; viltn tfita dorsali mcilium subatlingcnte, (itlcra 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 607 



marginali angusta medium attingente, macula media dorsali et fascia 

 irregulare inter medium et apicem (suturam et mxirginem attingens); 

 corpus infra et pedes nigra, nigro-sericea. 



Long. carp. 15 mm. 



Lat. elytr. 4§ mm. 



Hab. Chiyaka, Angola (Africa); ab auctore collecta. 



Typ. in coll. mea. 



Medium-sized species, black, rather densely clothed with longish 

 silvery hairs, which are longer on the head and thorax than on the 

 elytra. The head is very wide, being much wider than the thorax, 

 and in some specimens as wide as the elytra at their base, and with 

 the tempora much inflated making the head above the eyes as wide as 

 it is across the eyes themselves. Eyes not prominent. The head and 

 thorax are finely punctulate, the latter with a median ioxea situate 

 somewhat in front of its posterior third. ArUoince with fii'st two 

 joints black, the remainder being a ver}^ dark brown. Scutcllum long 

 and narrow. Elytra black with yellow markings arranged as follows : 

 on each elytron a broad dorsal vitta (one-fourth as wide as the el)rtron) 

 not reaching to the middle of the elytron; another narrower marginal 

 vitta reaching fully to, or rather beyond, the middle; behind the a})cx 

 of the dorsal vitta and occasionally coalescing with it a large doi-sal 

 spot, irregular in outline but always transverse; behind this spot, 

 midway between it and the apex of the elytron, an irregular yellow 

 band. The legs and abdomen are densely clothed with long silvery 

 hairs which arc more abundant on the femora and tibia?. 



Type in my collection; cotype Cat. No. 12121, U. S. N. M. 



One hundred and two specimens taken in January, 1907 on Mal- 

 vaceae {Hibiscus and Malache spp.). The jiattern of this species is 

 wonderfully stable showing almost no variation. 



SubKonus MYLABUIS Fabr. (lena. ilrict.). 

 10. Mylabris (M) andongoana Har.. Col. Hefte. XVI. 1870, i>. 138. 



Pungo Andongo, July (IIohmeykr). 



Tyi)e in Berlin, Koniglischos Museum. The pubescence of the legs 

 is in the type somewhat different from ordinary specimens. 



17 Mylabris (M.)atroohalybea Miir.H...I..rn.Sci.Muth.PhyH.Nat.Li»b..VI,Nn.XXV.1879.i> .57. 



l.oaiKhi (Wklw iTscii), lluilla (Lono d'Avila). 

 IS. Mylabris (M.) bengutlana Mars., ibid., p. 57. 



Angola (Welwitsch), Benguella (Anchieta). 



Ht Mylabris (M.) bioinota Mur«.. M<5in. .S«>c. roy. Sci. Lidge, 1871', i>. 101. pi. V. fig. 64>. 

 I.oamla (Wklwitscm). 

 This species was describe<l from Lake X'ganii. 




60S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



20. Mylabri8(M.)bifurcata Mar9..Jorn. Sci. Math. Phys. Nat. Lisb..VII. No. XXV.. 1879, p.48. 



Capangombe (Axchieta). 



21. Mylabrls (M.) bilineata Mars., ibid., p. 56. 



Angola (Welwitsch). 



22. Mjlabris (M.) bissezguttata Mars., ibid., p. 50. 

 Huinhe (Axchieta). 



23. Mylabrls (M.) carini&ons .Mars., ibid., p. 47. 



Angola (Welwitsch). 



24. Mylabris (M..) chisambensis Wellm., spec. nov. 



Nigra, magna, elongata, convexa, nigro-iillosula ; capitc, prothora- 

 ceque crebre punctidatis; antennis nigris; elytris nigris, punctulatis, 

 macula magna juxtascutellare et altera minore humerali testaceis; medio 

 undulatim lateque testaceo-bifasciatis; corpus infra et pedes intermcdii 

 posticique nigro-pubescentes; pedes arUid dense argenteo-sericei. 



Long. corp. 24 mm. 



Lat. ehjtr. \0\ mm. 



Hab. ChLsamba, Bih^, Angola (Africa); a Doctore L. Cammack 

 collecta . 



Typ. in coll. mea. 



Large species; head black, finely punctured, clothed with fine black 

 hairs which are fewer on the vertex; labrum emarginate, the margin 

 provided with a thick fringe of coarse testaceous hairs, its basal third 

 smooth, the apical two- thirds very closely, finely and regularly punc- 

 ture<l ; eyes slightly reniform; antenna black, with a tuft of coarse 

 black hairs on the anterior surface of the basal joint and a few scattered 

 black hairs on the next three joints; maxillary palpi large with apical 

 joint inflated and squarely truncate, both maxillary and labial palpi 

 with long black hairs on them ; thorax with punctuation and pubescence 

 like that of head, posterior margin elevated, two feeble impressions, 

 one just in front of the posterior margin, and the other just in front of 

 the posterior third of the thorax, both in the median line; scutcllum 

 small, triangular with the posterior angle truncate; elytra black, with 

 a large juxta-scutellar straw-colored spot, not quite reaching the 

 sutural margin, on each elytron; nearly opposite to this, but rather 

 more in front, a smaller spot on the humeral margin; two wide, wavy 

 bands of the same Cf)lor dividing tlie elytra into three nearly equal 

 parts, but place<J nearer together tlian from the ba.sal or apical borders 

 of the elytra; legs black, densely clothe<l with short black hairs and 

 some Umger ones, the front legs very closely covered on tjieir internal 

 surface with short pale hairs and in tlic males provi(hMl with very long 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 609 



black hairs at the apex of the tibiae and sides of the tai"si ; under surface 

 of body black with longish black pubescence. 



Type in my collection; cotype Cat. No. 12122. U. S. X. M. 



Eight specimens sent by Dr. Cammack, taken on "foliage." One 

 of the individuals is a monstrosit}', having tiie secondary bifurcation 

 of the inner front claws reduced to a tin}- sj)ur. 



Tills species in its coloration and facies presents a startling resem- 

 blance to an oriental species (M. cichorii Linn.), but the striking 

 differences in the mouth parts readih' separate it. 



25. Mylabris 'M.i dentata Oliv., Encyc. mcth., VIII, p. 97. 



Mi/lobri.9 torluom Erich.s., Wiepiii. Arch. Naturg., I, 1843, p. 256. 



Angola (Erichsox), Loanda, Bcnguella (Marseul), Icolo, Loanda 

 (Welwitsch), Loanda (Hohmeyer), Humbe, Cabinda (Axchieta), 

 Gamba. March. 1008. 84 ."specimens (Wellman). 



This species was first described from Sierra Leone. 



26. Mylabris (M.» dicinota Bert.. Nov. Act. Bonon.. X., 1849. p. 419. 



Mulahris bizouata (Jcrst.. MonatsI). liorl. .Acad., 1S.54. p. 694. 



Mi/labris dicinria var. Buqucti Mars.. M('ni. S)C. roy. Sci. Li^pe. 1S72. p. 408. 



Zonabris dicincta var. occidetitalis Har., Col. Hoftf. XVI, 1S79, p. 13.5. 



Benguella (.Marseul), Angola (Welwitsch), Cai)angombe (An- 

 chieta), Gamba, 60 specimens, on flowers of Tribulus zeghcri, March, 

 1908 (Wellman). 



The typical form was fii*st described from .Mozambique. The 

 Angolan form with juxta-scutellar and humero-marginal elytral spots 

 .seems to be a distinctively western race and is probably a true subspecies. 

 In all my specimens the last three joints of the palpi are yellow. 



A specimen of dicincta probabh' named by Bertolini and designated 

 as a "type" is in Berlin. Konigliches Maseum, 



27. Mylabris (M.) disorepens Mar*...l..rn..Sci.Mulh.Phyn. Nat.Li>h..VII.N<> XXV.p 4fi. 



L(tanda (Wklw rrscii). 



28. Mylabris (M. > dispar .Mur«.. SUm. .S<>c. n>y. Sci. Li6ge. 1872. p 43.1. pL IV. fig. 22a. 



.Xnibriz (M vkskcl). 

 29 Mylabris (M.) eriohsoni Omm., Col. Hefte. VI. 1870. p. 123. 



Mtjlabrin duodecitnyullata Eriolis., Wicgin. Arch. Natiirj?., I, 1S43, |). 257 (ncc 

 Cionnnr). 



Angola (Erich.son). 



3)1 Mylabris <M.> flavog^uttaU Reiche, Ualin. Voy. AbyM., laV). p. 380. tab. 23. fix. 6. 



.\ngola (Wllwitxii). 

 A specicrt (lescril)e<l from Aby.'vinja. 

 31. Mylabris <M.) gamicola Mar- . M<'iii Hoc. roy. Sci. Lidgo, 1872. p 4.30. pi. IV.. lig. 23a. 

 Ilumiic (.\n( iiikta), 

 DrscrilxHl fntin Lake N'gami. 




610 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



32. Mylabris (M.^ holosericea Klug, Erm. Reise, 1835, p. 41. 



Loaiida (Wklwitsch). 



Described from Guinea. It is suggested by Mr, Champion (Mem. 

 Soc. Eni. Belg., 1899, p. 165) that inllosa F^hr. (Ofv. Vet.-Ak. Fork., 

 XXVII. p. 345) from "Caffraria" is a variety of this species. 



33. Mylabris (M.) hybrida Mars.. Mem. Soc. roy. Sci. Lidge, 1872, p. 418, pi. IV. fig 12. 



Capangombe (Anchieta). 

 Described from Port Natal. 



34. Mylabris (M.) Jacob Mars., Jorn. Sci. Math. Phys. Nat. Lisb., V, No. XXV, 1879 p. 53. 



Loanda (Welwitsch), Capangombe (Anchieta). 



35. Mylabris (M.) lactimala Mars., ibid., p. 44. 



Humbe (Lobo d'Avila). 



36. Mylabris (M.) lanigera Mars., ibid., p. 49. 



Angola (Welwitsch). 



37. Mylabris (M.) liquida Erichs.. Wiegm. Arch. Naturg., I, 1843, p. 255. 



Angola (Erichson). Loanda, Pungo Andongo (Hohmeyer), Cabinda 

 (Anchieta), Angola (Welwitsch), Gamba, March, 1908, 7 specimens 

 (Wellman). 



On the flowers of Tribidus zegheri. 



My specimens differ from typical examples in that the basal fascia 

 of the elytra is not humerally subinterrupted. 



38. Mylabris (M.) muata Har., Mitth. Munch. Ent. Ver., 1878, p. 109. 



Angola — "aus dem inneren" — (Pogge). 



This species was first described, probably from Kabebe, now in the 

 Congo Free State, as a Bruchiis, but was subsequently {Col. Hcfte, 

 1879, p. 136) removed by its author from that genus and placed in 

 Mylabris, where it conflicts with Mylabris mvxita Har., Mitth. Munch. 

 Ent. Ver., 1878, p. 109. I accordingly propose for this last species, 

 wliich is not mentioned by Mr. Champion in his "List of the Can- 

 tharidre Supplementary to the 'Munich' Catalogue" (M&m. Soc. Ent. 

 Belg., 1899, pp. 154-206), the following designation: 

 Mylabris (M.) haroldi Wellm. nom. nov. 



Tiio type of viuala in the Berlin, Konigliches Museum, has "Rcgn. 

 Lunda" on the locality label. 



39. Mylabris (M.) myops Chevr., Gui't. Ic regn. anim., p. 133, tab. 35, fig. 4. 



Caljc) Negro (Welwitsch). 



Described from the Cape of Good Hope. 



Among my specimens (not collected by myself, but undoubtedly 

 from Angola) and also among those of Welwitsch in the British Museum 

 1 find some individuals whicli difTcr considerably from the type, as 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 611 



was fii-st pointed out by Marseul (Jorn. Set. Math. Phys. Nat. Lisb., 

 1870. p. 45) and which may be briefly described as follows: 



Mylabris 'M.) myopa var. welwitschi Wellm. var. nov. 



Mdcula flava basali cbjtrorum nulla. Typ. in coll. tnea. 



There are some other points of difference, among which may be 

 mentioned the rather coarser and more irregular punctuation of the 

 head and thorax in the case of the 9 9 , and the greater comparative 

 length of the third joint of the antennae. 



40. Mylabris (M ) oculata Thunb., Diss. Nov. Ins. Spec, VI, 1791. p. 114. 

 CanUiaris hlfasciala Degeer., Ins., 'M:!, p. 647, tab. 48, fig. 13. 



Angola (Welwitsch), Humbe (Anchieta). 



First do.-^cribed from the Cape. 

 Mylabris (M.) ooalata var. moufleti .Mars., Mdm. Soc. roy. Sci. Li^ge, 1872, p. 404. 



Benguella (Marseul), Huilla (Lobo D'AviLA),Caconda (Anchieta), 

 Bihe (Capello and Ivexs). 



Mylabris (M.) oculata var. ophthalmica Mars., ibid., p. 404. 



Angola (Welwitsch), Benguella, Capangombe, Humbe (Anchieta). 

 Chiyaka. January, 1908, one specimen, Gamba, March, 1908, 3 speci- 

 mens (Wellman). 



Described from the Cape. 



4 1 Mylabris (M.) opaoula Mars., Jom. Sci. Math. Phya. Nat. Lisb., VII, No. XXV, 1879, p. 45. 



Duque do Bragan^'u (Marseul), Bih6 (Capello and Ivens). 



42 Mylabris (M.) palliata .Mars., .M.-m. Soc roy. Sci. Lidge, 1872, p. 432, pi. IV. fig. 21o. 



Humbe (Anchieta). 

 Described from "Caffraria." 



43. Mylabris (M ) paulinoi Mar8.,J<)rn.Sci. .Math. Phys. Nat. Lisb.. VII, No. XXV, lS79.p.48. 



.Angola (Wklwi'i^^ch). 

 4 1 Mylabris (M ) phelopsis Mars. i6i<f., p. 48. 

 .Vngola (WKLwn>;cH). 



45. Mylabris (M.) plavialis Wcllm. spec. nov. 



Nigra, ohlongo-ovata, posiice paido latior, parum convexa, nigro- 

 inllosnla; cupite prothoraceque crcbre punctulatis; antcnnis flavis, articu- 

 lis iluobus primis nigris; clytris nigris, punctulatis, nuicula magna 

 juxttisciUellare ct aliera parva humerali flavis; medio undulaiim flavo- 

 fascialis, postico guttis duahus auranliacis; corpus infra et pedes nigris. 



Long. Corp. 18 nun. 



I Alt. cbflr. 8 mm. 



IlaU. (lan»])a, Angola (Africa); ab audore collecla. 



Typ. in coll. mea. 



Mcilium-sized species; head black, rather rlo.'^ely puncture<l with 




(512 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [IH'C, 



shallow punctures, sparsely clothed with small black haii-s; eyes larsit*. 

 almost hemispherical; antennce with firet two joints black, 3d to 11th 

 light orange; thorax black, closely punctured, clothed with a few black 

 hairs; scutellum very small, hardly visible, with a few fuie black haii-s; 

 elytra black, punctured throughout not very closely with small, rather 

 deep punctures; there are also some small, fine black haii-s over the 

 whole elytra which are marked with a median, yellow, traasverse band 

 and also spots anterior and posterior to it, these markings arranged as 

 follows: on each elytron near the base is a large, almost circular l^right 

 yellow spot; behind this is the irregular, rather wide, median trans- 

 verse yellow band which would lie in front of a transverse line which 

 might be drawn to di\'ide the elytron into two halves ; about midway 

 between this band and the posterior margin of the elytron are two 

 orange-red spots, nearly round; the larger of these, which is smaller 

 than the basal spots above mentioned, is near the sutural margin of 

 the elytron, almost on a line with the basal spot; the other (hardly 

 half as large) lies opposite at the outer margin of the elytron ; basally 

 at the extreme humeral margin of the elytron is a yellow spot, longer 

 than wide, reaching to the margin of the elytron and narrowly con- 

 nected \\ath the median yellow band; legs black, blackly hairy, the 

 front femora and tibiae covered with short yellowish silky haii-s on their 

 inner surface. 



Type in my collection; cotype Cat. No. 12123, U. S. X. M. 



In some specimens the basal spots (both juxta-scutellar and humeral) 

 show a tendency to become confluent with the metlian fascia. 



This species is very prolific and appears in great numbei-s during 

 the rains. In March, 1908, at Gamba, Angola, I coUectetl 194 speci- 

 meas in a few hours. Its principal food plant is Tribulus zegheri. 



46. Mylabris (M.) rufltarsis Mars., Jorn. Sci. Math. Phys. Nat . Lisb.,VII. No. XXV. 1879. p. 52. 



Loanda (Welwitsch), Huilla (Anchieta). 



47. Mylabris (M.^ senegalensis Voigts, Wien. Ent. Zeit.. XXI, p. 178. 



Mijlabria bifasciata Oliv., Ent., Ill, 47, p. 5, tab. 1, fig. 10 (iiec Dogeer). 

 Angola (Welwit.sch), Angola — "aus dem inneren" — (Pogge). 

 Described from Senegal, also a variety (var. conjuncta Ycn^is, Wien. 

 Ent. Zeit., XX, p. 217) from Dar-es-Salaam. 



48. Mylabrii (M.) sibylse Wellm. Hpec. nov. 



Nigra, stalura tnagna sat robusta, nigro-pubescens; capite {antenna 

 articulis 1, 2 nigris, 2, 3 fulvis, reliquis fkivis; palpis brunncis) pro- 

 th/traccque nigris subtiliter punctulalis, nigro-villosis, hoc longitiuline 

 pauLo lalior, medio Icvitcr bi-impresso; elytris nigris, dense subtiliter 




1908.] XATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 613 



punctatis. ynaculis 2 (juxta-sciitcllare et humerali) obscure aurantiacis. 

 jascisque 2 {prima anteriore ad medium Integra, secunda inter medium 

 et apicem interrupta) obscure rujo-auranliacis ornatis. Corpus infra 

 et pedes nigra, nigro-pubescentia. 



Long. Corp. 24 mm. 



Lot. elytr. 13 mm. 



Hob. Gamba, Angola (Africa); ab auctore coUecta. 



Typ. in coll. mea. 



Large black species, rather robast, clothed with very short black 

 pubescence, which is longer on the head, thorax and alxlomen. The 

 head and thorax are feebl}' punctulate, the latter doubly though feebly 

 impresse<l. Eyes large, not very convex, Antennce with the first two 

 joints black, the second and third fulvous and the remainder light 

 orange-yellow. The palpi are brownisii. Scutellum very small, 

 triangular. Elytra closely and finely punctate, each elytron with two 

 spots, jiLxta-scutellar and humeral, and two fascia^, the fii"st in front of 

 the middle, the second about midway between the malian band and 

 the apex of the elytron. The two spots and the median band are dark 

 orange, the posterior band (which is sometimes interrupted) dark 

 orange-re<l. Legs and b(xly black, clothed with black hairs, the inter- 

 nal surface of the front legs coveretl with short pale silky hail's. 



Type in my collection; cotype Cat. No, 12124, U. S. N. M. 



Twenty-four specimeas taken in March, 1908, on the flowei-s of 

 Tribulus zegheri. 



I'.t Mylabris (M.; tincta l.richs., Wiegm. Arch. Naturg , 1843, I, |). 2.")(>. 



Angola (Ekichsox), Angola (Marseul), Angola (Welwitsch), 

 Type in Berlin, Konigliches Museum. 



TyU. Mylabris (M.) tindila WcUm. »y>ec. nov. 



Signi. pnrni, nigro-pubcscens; caput dense puntulatum, nigro-villo- 

 sum, antennis flai'is, articulis duobus primis nigris; thorax jyirvus, 

 dense piinctul(dus, nigro-villosus, UUitudine longinr, postice longitudi- 

 n(diter foveolatus; elytra dense subtiliter punctata, liniis dorsatibus 3 

 distinctis, nigro-pubescentia; fasciis tribus undubdis jtaris suturam 

 atlingentibiat: corpus infra el prdrs nigra. 



Loiuj. Corp. 12 nmi. 



Ijot. elytr. 5 nun. 



Ilab. (Jamba. Angola (Africa); <d) auctore collecta. 



Typ. in coll. mea. 



A rather small species; hetid tlonsely punctulate, blackly pubescent 

 with a lf)ijgish vertical smooth boss between the eyes. Eyes promi- 




614 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC, 



nent. Antennoe with fii-st two joints black, the next three dark yellow, 

 the remainder light yellow. The palpi are black, hairy. Thorax 

 small, narrow, longer than wide, conical in front, densely punctulate, 

 with a small longitudinal median fovea at its posterior third. Scutel- 

 lum small. Elytra black, finely and closely punctured, with three 

 yellow bands placed much as in M. liquida Erichs. except that the basal 

 fascia has no tendency to become interrupted. The three longitudinal 

 veins or lines on the elytra are very distinct. Legs and under side of 

 body black, blackly pubescent. 



Type in my collection; cotj^^e Cat. No. 12125, U. S. N. M. 



Two specimens taken March, 1908, on the flowers of Tribidus zegheri. 

 The specific name is a Bantu word meaning rare. 



.■^I Mylabris (M.) tricolor Gerst., Peter's Reis. n. Mozamb., (1862), p. 297. pi. 17, fig. 11. 



Humbe (Anchieta). 



Described from Mozambique. 



Type in Berlin, Konigliches Museum. 



52. Mylabris (M.) trispila Mars., Jom.Sci.Math.Phys. Nat.Lisb., VII,No.XXV,p.55, 1879. 



T>oanda (Welwit.'^ch), Huilla (Anchieta). 



53. Mylabris (M.) tristigma Gerst., Monatsb. Berl. Acad., 1854, p. 694. 



Described from Mozambique. The Angolan examples may be 

 regarded as at least representing a distinct western geographical race 

 which may be described as follows : 



Mylabris (M.) tristigma tribuli Wellm. subsp. nov. 



Xigra, angusla, valde elongata; capite crebre punctata, nigro-villoso; 

 antennis articulis primis duohiis julvis, reliquis flavis. Labrum fidvum; 

 palpis inflatis, truncatis, flavis; thorace crebre punctata, longitudine latiore 

 medio impresso, postice elevato. Elytra fluva, jortiter punctata, nigro- 

 pubescerdia; margine basali macvlis duabus antemedium {altera pone 

 suturam. altera majore laterali) fascia sitbmediana apiceque nigris. Corpus 

 infra et pedes {tarsi prirni postici excepti) nigra, nigro-pubescentia. 



Long. corp. 20 mm. 



Lat. elylr. 5 mm. 



Hah. Gamba, Angola (Africa); ah aucturc culLccla. 



Typ. in coll. mea. 



This insect, which quite possibly represents a new species, is described 

 for the present as a subspecies of tristigma Gerst., from which it diffci-s 

 inter alia by the longer and narrower body, the shape of the head and 

 eyes, the mucji larger black spots on the anterior part of the elytra, 

 the different marking of the jwsterior portion, which shows a com])l('te 

 yellow band instead of the two yellow spots on a broad black apical 

 band, etc. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 615 



Type in my collection; cotype Cat. No. 12126, U. S. N. M. 

 Three >«peciraeas taken at Gamba, on flowei-s of Tribidus zegheri, 

 March, 190S. 

 The type of tristigma is in Berlin, Konigliches Museum. 



54. Mylabris (M.) tristriguttata Mars., Jorn. Sci. Math. Phys. Nat. Lisb., VII, No. XXV, 



1879. p. 5.5. 



M i/labris " ridriguttuta" Mars., Champion, Soc. Eut. Belg. Ann., XLIII, 

 1S99, p. 165 {ex error). 



Loanda (Welavitsch). 



Subgenus CEROCTIS Mars. 



55. Mylabris ^C.) amphibia Mars., M^m. Soc. roy. Sci. Li^ge, 1872, p. 559, pi. V, fig. 70a. 



Angola (Marseul). 



56. Mylabris (C.) angolensis Gemm., Col. Hefte, VI, 1870, p. 123. 



Mi/labris phalcrata Erichs., Wiegm. Arch. Xaturg., I, 1S43, p. 250. 

 Angola (Erichson), Angola (Welwitsch). 

 Type in BerUn, Konigliches Museum, marked "Angola Schonh." 



57. Mylabris (C.) bohemanni .Mars., Mdm. Soc. roy. Sci. Liege, 1872, p. 198, pi. V, fig. 69. 

 Caj)ang()nibe (Anc'HIKta). 



Described from "Caffraria." 



58 Mylabris fC.) exclamationis Mar.s., ibid., p. 562, pi. V, fig. 72a. 



" Amberix" (= ? Aiiibriz) (M.\rseul), Bengo (Welwitsch), Ganiba, 

 March, 1908, on flowers of Tribidus zegheri, 16 specimens (Wellman). 



59 Mylabris (C.) interna Har.. Mitth. MOnch. Ent. Ver., 1878, p. 108. 



Aufiola (Welwitsch) (a specimen in the British Museum labeled 

 as Cori/na lata Reichc), Angola (Mechow), Pungo Andongo, end of 

 July (Pogge and Hohmeyer), Chiyaka, 1 specimen on grass December, 

 1906, 1 specimen on Gciqcria wcHmaui September, 1007, 20 other 

 specimens on Compositic cliiefly Gcigeria and Olhotinaspp. (Wkllman). 



Describetl from the interior of "Guinea" and placetl by its author 

 in the genus Brurhus. C. vcspinn Thos. (Ann. Mag. Nat. flist., 6, 

 XIX, p. 501) from east Africa has been sunk as a synonym of the 

 species under discussion, but a series of 40 specimens from the Congo, 

 now in the Unito«l States National Museum, together with my own 

 examples, show that ?Y'.s/>j>m, the type of which is in the British .M\iseum, 

 should be retainc<l as a distinct and stable variety of interna, the front 

 brown fascia of the latter being quite constantly r(»<luc(Hl to two dots 

 in the former. In tlie description vrspina is not C(jmparc<l with 

 interna but with ycrburyi Gahan. from which it differs not especially 

 (as is stated by Thomas) in the elytral banding, but in the color and 

 structure of the anteriii:e Ctlie ly|»e of nsin'nti ll.•l.■^ im ;ni(rim:iO uliicli 



arc very different. 




610 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [l^OC, 



The type of interna is in Berlin. Koniglichcs Museum, and lias 

 "Re<:n. Lunda" on the locality label. 



60 Mylabris iC.) serricomis Gerst.. Peter's Reis., 1862, p. 3tM). pi. 18. fig. 1. 



Luanda, Huilla (Welwitscii), Humbe (Anchieta). 



This fine species was first described from Mozambique. In the type 

 (in Berlin, Konigliches Museum, marked "Mozamb. Peters") the legs 

 are rather less hairy than in ordinary specimens. 



61 Mylabris (C.) trifarca Gerst.. Monatsb. Berl. Acad., 1854. p. 694. 



C'hiyaka. 1 specimen taken digging in native path, 1 specimen in 

 large orchid, October, 1907, 2 other specimens, one on flowers of Faron 

 tcellmani and one flying, December, 1907 (Wkllmax). 



Describetl from Mozambique. 



Type in Berlin, Konigliches Museum marked "Sena, Petei"s." 



Genus ELETICA Lacord.. Gen. Col., V, p. 672. 



62. Eletica colorata Har., Mitth. Munch. Ent. Ver., 1878, p. 108. 



Angola — "aiis dem inneren" — (Pogge), Chiyaka, November, 1907, 

 taken flying in bright suashine after a rain, 2 specimens (Wellmax). 



Described from the interior of Guinea. Kolbe (Col. ans Afrika, 

 I, p. 178f.) coasklere bicolor Champ. (Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., 1890, p. 

 645. tab. 56, fig. 8) from Central Africa as a synonym of this sj)ecies. 



The type of colorata is in Berlin, Konigliches Museum. 



63. Eletica laeviceps Kolbe, Ent. Nachr. XII, p. 299. 



Chiyaka, November, 1907 (Wellmax). A single specimen which 

 lit on my hat in bright sunshine. 



Describwl from the Congo. This species is very near rufa F., if 

 indee<l it can be separated from it. 



The type of Ixeviceps is in Berlin. Konigliches Museum. 



64 Eletica ornatipennis Luc . Bull. .S<>c. Ent. Fr., 1887, p. XXVII 



Huilla (Campana). 



6o Eletica rafa Fabr.. Syui. El.. II, p. 78. 



Li/lt(i hi/iiislulala Fabr., lor. cit., p. 7.S. 



Llelicu cardinalis PtJr., Trans. S. Afr. I'liil. Soc, \\ . p. 130. 



Angola (Welwitsch), Angola (Moxteiro), Angola (Axchieta), 

 Chiyaka, January, 190S, twelve s|)ecimens (Wellmax). Always 

 taken about 9-11 A..M., flying, or rarely crawling, in bright sunshine 

 after a rain. One specimen also lit on my hat. 



FirKt de«cril>e<l from Senegal. This is an extraordinarily variable 

 species, ranging from light rt^l to coal black, sonn; individuals even 

 having the elytra pale yellnw with black tips. I suspect that some of 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 617 



the black forms described under other names are nothing but variations 

 of nifn. but as yet have been unable to examine the types. 



66. Eletioa stahlmanni Kolbe. Stett. Ent. Zeit., LV, p. 183. 



Chiyaka, November, 1907, three specimens (Wellmax). Brought 

 to me by my servant. 



Describe<l from Lake Albert Nyanza. It i.s probable that my 

 specimeas represent a new -form, very closely allied to stuhlmanni, 

 but the specimens are in such bad condition that I cannot separate 

 them from K<)ll)e's species, without furtiier nuiterial. 



The type of stuhhnatini, is in Berlin, Konigliches Museum. 



Tribe LYTTINI. 

 Genus LYTTA Fabr.. Sy:<t. Knt., p. 260. 



Canlharin Linn., Act. Ups., 1736, p. 19 (pars). 

 I.nfjorinn Mui.*. «>t Hry., Ins. Canth., 1S58, p. 1.50. 



6". Lytta amethystina Makl., .\ct. Soc. Sci. Fenn., 1875, p. 602. 



Chiyaka, running about on grouml in company with L. signijrons 

 Fahr., ,5(5 .■specimens (Wellmax). 



Describe<l from Senegal. 

 68 Lytta atroooeralea Har., Mitth. .Mimcb. Km. Vcr.. 1878. |). 108. 



Angola — "aus dem innercn" — (Pogue). 



Described from the interior of Guinea. 



Type in Berlin, Konigliches Museum. 



09. Lytta baqaeti Miikl., .\ct. Soc. Sci. Fenn . 187."), p. C02. 



Humbe (A.nchikta). 

 l)('scnbe<l from Senegal. 



70 Lytta Chalybea i:richn.. Wieinn. .\rch. .NnturR., I, IHJ.I, p. 2.'>8. 



Cnnlhariti sentinifens .Mars., Jcmi. ."^ri. .Math. IMiv.>*. .Nat. I.isI).. \'II. \o. 

 XXV, 1S79, p. (k). 



.\ngola (Krichson), Angola (Welwitsch), Loanda (Hohmeykk), 

 Angola (.Mo.NTEiRf)), (lamba, March. 1908. on flowers of Tn'huhts 

 zccflirri, 140 specimens (Wi;llm.\n). 



.\ comparison of the material in Berhn and London witii my .series 

 shows that lOrichson's and .Maix-ul's speci»>s are the same. 



The type of chnlyhrn is in Berhn, KtWiighcht'S .Museum. 



71 Lytta oinotifroni MnrH., loc. cit., p. 61. 



HuiuIk" (Anchieta). 



72 Lytta epiioopalii llnr . Mitih. MOnch. Knt. Ver.. 1878, p. 108 

 .\rigohi "aus dem inneren" — (1'ogoe). 

 DcscrilMHl from the interior f>f (iuinea. 



Tvpc in Bj-rliii, K«"(iiig|i('}n«s M\is<'iim. 




618 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



73. Lytta hemicrania Mars.. Jorn. Sci. Math. Phys. Nat. Lisb.. VII, No. XXV. 1879. i> 01. 



Angola (WELW^TSCH). 



74 Lytta laminioornis Fairm.. Notes Ley<l. Mu.<., X. p. 270. 



Huinpata (Kellen). 



75. Lytta maoalifrons M-ikl., Act. Soc. Sci. Fenn.. 1878, p. 608. 



Angola (Welwitsch), Angola (Monteiro), Humbe (Axchieta). 



76. Lytta melanooephala Fabr., Syst. El., II, p. 77. 



Ltfttn mcliinocephala var. hilineata Haag-Rut., Dcutscli. Ent. Zeit., 1880, p. 68. 



Angola (Welwitsch). 



Described from Guinea. Hoag-Riitenbcrg's Lytta hilineata from 

 Senegal is here treatetl as only a variation of melanoccphala Fabr.^ 

 but it is probable that the examination of more material would .^liow 

 it to be a constant and distinct geographical subspecies. 



77. Lytta metasternalis Fairm., Notes Leyd. Mu3., X, p. 269. 



Humpata (Kellen). 



78. Lytta myrmido Fairm., Pet. Nouv. Ent., II, p. 93. 



Angola (Fairmaire). 



79. Lytte notifrone Mars., Jorn. Sci. Math. Phys. Nat. Lisb., VII, No. XXV, 1879, p. 59. 



Humbe (Anchieta). 



80. Lytta peotoralis Gerst., Monatsb. Berl. Acad., 1854, p. 695. 



Gamba, March, 1908, 56 specimens (Wellman); never seen feeding 

 but always running about restlessly on the ground like Carabidae. 



The type of pectoralis Gerst. is in Berlin, Konigliches Museum. 



Described from Mozambique. Fairmaire {Faun, et Flor. Comal., 

 Col., 1882, p. 84) has described another insect under the same name. 

 For this last species I would propose 



Lytta mbropeotUB Wellm. nom. nov. 



HI. Lytta signifrons F&hr., Ofv. Vet.-Ak. Forh., XXVII. p. 352. 



L]fUa Caleslina Haag-Rut., Deutsch. Ent. Zeit., 1880, p. (il. 



Angola (Welwitsch), Chiyaka. December, 1908, running on ground 

 in company with L. amethystina .Makl.. 2S specimens (Wellman). 



Described from "Caffraria." 



82 Lytta Itrig^ida .Mars , Jom. Sci. .Math. Phys. Nat. Li.sb., VII, No. XXV. 1879. \>. dl. 



Angola (Welwitsch). 



H3 Lytta labragnlosa Mikkl., Act. Hoc. Sci Fenn., X, p. «IM». 



Humbe (Anchiet.a). 



M Lytta thoraoioa Erich"., Wiejcm. Arch. .NaturK.. I, 1843, p. 258. 



Angola (JjticH.soN), Gamba, March, 190S, on flowei*s of Tribulus 

 zegheri, 10 specimens (Wellman). 




1008.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 619 



My examples show that the puncturing of the thorax is variable and 

 not always so reclucal in the d^cJ' as Erichson thought. 



B5. Lytta velUoata Erichs., ibid., p. 258. 



Angola (Erichson). 



Type in Berlin, Konigliches Museum. 



Genus EPICAUTA Ketlt. Faun. Aust., I. p. 631. 

 Isopenlra Keitt., Wien. Ent. Zeit., XXXIV, p. 195. 

 80. Epioaata canesoens Klug, Erman. Reis., 1835, p. 42. 



-Angola (Welavitsch). 

 Described from Guinea. 



87. Epicauta prolifioa Wellm. spec. nov. 



Xigra (caput rujum) lata, oblonga, pube densa depressa alba I'tstita; 

 caput magnum, subpunctulatum, antennae filiformes; thorax quadrattis 

 longitudine latior, medio lex'iter sidcatus, crebre punctatus; elytra crebre 

 punctata, albo-marginata, medio lineaque dorsali longitudinali albis; 

 corpus infra pedesque dense albo-vestita ; pedes postici valde elongati. 



Long. corp. 12 nun. 



Lilt, ehjtr. 6 mm. 



Hub. Chiyaka, Angola (Africa); ab auciore collecta. 



T>/p. in coll. m.ea. 



Avery short robust species; black, clothed with a dense covering of 

 closely lying white hairs, giving the insect a gray appearance. Head 

 large, red (a frontal spot, the mouth parts and antemui' are black), 

 feebly punctulatc, clothc<l with short white hairs (very small and spai-se 

 on the vertex); eyes long, narrow and oblique; antennce filiform, first 

 joint long, second joint con.^tricteil b('f(»re the base, third joint twice a.>< 

 long as second ami nuicji longer than fourtii. Thorax quadrate, wider 

 than long, with a very faint median longitudinal groove, closely and 

 finely puncture<l. Scutcllum small, triangular. Elytra also closely ami 

 finely punctured, with a white doi-sal vitta (formeil by a thicker 

 arrangement of the hairs of the elytron) reaching from the base to 

 almost the apex of the elytron; a white nnirgin to the elytron forme<l 

 in the same way. The legs and under surface of the botly are closely 

 covcre<i with fine white hairs. There is a concave sericious spot on 

 the inner surface of the front femora and tibia*. The liind legs are very 

 long. 



Type in my collection; cotype Cat. No. r_'I27. ('. .•>. .\. .M. 



An int<Tes(ing variety also occurs which may be briefly indiiatiti 

 a.s follows: 




620 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Epieaata canescens var. elonda Wellm. var. nov. 



VitUi (lorsali cUjtrorum nulla. 



Typ. in coll. rnca. 



The absence of the mast prominent marking gives the insect a strik- 

 ingly dififerent a.spect. The name is a local word referring to the place 

 in wiiich the type of the variety was found. 



Seventy-eight specimens of this species taken in Xovember, 1907, 

 and Februar>', 1908. It is usually found wandering aimlessly about 

 on the ground, but I have taken it eating potato tops and also bean 

 leaves. It is often mentioned by the natives as destroying their crops. 



1 once found them eating the young tender sprouts of a coarse branching 

 grass {Eragrostis sp.). 



Genus (ENA8 Latr.. Hist. Nat. Crust. Ins.. Ill, 1802, p. 186. 

 88. CEnas bicolor Ca>t., Hist. Nat. Ins., II, p. 271. 



Angola (Bitta). 



S9. (Enas melanora Erichs., Wiegm. .\rch. Naturg., I, 18*3, p. 259. 



Angola (Erichsox). 



GenusSYBAEIS Steph., 111. Brit. Ent.. V, 1832, p. 70. 

 Prionotus Koll. et Redt., Hug. Kasch., IV, p. 3.56. 

 Lacordaire {Gen. Col, V, p. 683) suggests regarding the type (said 

 to have been found in England) of this genus that it "pourrait bien 

 etre d'origine exotique." I have examined the insect {S. immunis 

 Steph.) in the British Museum and believe that this must certainly 

 have been the case. 



<Mi. Sybaris flaveola Mars., .lorn. Sci. .Math. Phys. Nat. Lisb.. VII, No. XXV, 1879. p. 62. 



Angola (Welwitsch). 



91. Sybaris picta Mars., ihid., p. 62. 

 Ilumbe (Anchieta). 



Genus 8ITABI8 Latr.. Hist. Nat. Cni.st. Ins.. III. 1S02, p. 1S7. 



Xecydalis Fabr. 

 Criolis Mills. 

 Stenoria Miil.s. 



02 SiUrii hilarii Mar- . Jom. Sci .Math. Phys. Nat. List. , Ml. .No XXV. I,s79. p 04. 



Angola (Welwitsch). 



GenuB Z0NITI8 r»l>r., Syst. Ent , 1775, p. 120. 



AjMilun Oliv., Encyc. in^tli., I, n. 10.5. 



M rnalrnchrluH Mot.srli.. Kull. .M«»sr., lHl.5, p. 



S(rno,hrn KmIis.I,.. M<'in. .\<ii<l. Imp. Sci. I'.-t., VI. ISlS, p. 169. 



ZonitidcK .\l).ill<- (!<• r<r., \^n\\. Soc. Toiil., XIV, ISHO, p. ir^.i. 



TmeJfidrra Wtfjtw., Cvifr., Ma^- /><><>I- I"** . IX^', <»''• '<•'' (/w«). 



EuzoniliM Setn., Hor. Sot-. Ent. Ross., XX\II, 1SU3, p. 270. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 621 



Subgenus 1. ZO.MTIS Fabr.. loc. eil., p. 126 {aen*. ttr.). 

 Subgenus 2 .\EMOGNATH.\ Illig Mag Ins.. VI. 1807. p 333 



Leptopalpu.i Gu^r., Icon. Ins., p. 136. 

 Subgenus 3. GNATHIUM Kirby. Trans. Linn. Soc. Lond.. XII. p. 425. 



I propase to follow Casey {Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sci., VI, 1891, p. 170) 

 in treating Nemognatha and Gnathium under Zonitis. This will necessi- 

 tate changes in synonymy (principally of the American species) which 

 ncetl not be entered into at this time. The elongateil outer lobe of the 

 maxilla? is the only real character separating the two first mentioned 

 groups from Zonitis proper, and this character fails in several American 

 s|)ecies and also in the new species of Nemognatha. described in the 

 present paper. The differences between Nemognatha antl Gnathium 

 are even slighter, the antennal and thoracic characters often leaving 

 one in doubt as to which grouj} an insect should go. Nevertheless the 

 divisions are useful to a certain extent and I do not follow Casey in 

 sinking the names entirely, but suggest that they both be considered 

 :i.>< subspecies of Zonitis. 



The following artificial table shows how the main characters run 

 through the three groups of the genus: 



A. — Palpi not elongated. 



Antenna? not thickened at tips. . . Zonitis (sens. str.). 



AA. — Palpi elongated, the maxillary palpi often forming a sucking 



proboscis. 



a. — Antenna? not thickeneil at tips, . . . Nemognatha. 



aa. — Antenna? thickened at tips (Inathium. 



Sul>KenuM ZONITIS P'abr. (.mu. air.). 

 03 Zonitis (Z.) antennalit Wellm. »pec. nov. 



Gracilis, lutea; antenna, pectus et pedes (tibiis cxceptis) nigra; capite 

 prothoracequc valde elongatis. angustis, subtiliter punctulatis, hoc tri- 

 impresso {impressionibus hand projundis): antennis fortitrr serratis; 

 pfdpis nigris, apice oblique truncatis. Elytra dense subtiliter punctata, 

 .fuhmrdio nigro-fasciata. Pectus, pedes et abdomen jxillido-Krncea. 



hing. Corp. 12 nun. 



hit. ehftr. \\ nini. 



Hab. Chiyaka, Angola (Africa); (d> auctore colUcta. 



Ti/p. in coll. mea. 



A striking 8|)ecics both from its form and coloration. Lutoous except 

 the mouth parts, antenna', breast and legs which arc black, the tif)ia' 

 having the upper i)ortion also luteous. Head and thorax long and 



10 




622 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



narrow, finely punctulate, the latter with three shallow impressions. 

 Labrum luteous provided with a fringe of strong yellow hairs. The 

 antenncr are strongly serrate. Eyes strongly reniform. Palpi black 

 with apices obliquely truncate. Elytra closely and finely puncture^l 

 and ornamented with a broad black band somewhat in front of their 

 middles. Breast, legs and abdomen with pale silky hairs. 



One specimen, November, 1907. 

 94. Zonitis (Z.) prionocera Wellro. spec nov. 



Caput, protliorax, scuteUutn d abdomen lutea; antemm, elytra, pectus 

 et pedes nigra; capite prothoraceque elongatis, angustis, sparsim punc- 

 ivlatis; antennis nigris, serratis; articulis 1, 2 nitidis; elytris dense 

 subtiliter punctatis, albo-subpubescentibus. Pedes nigri; tibiis parte 

 superiore lutein. Pedes et abdomen paUido-sericea. 

 Long. Corp. 10 mm. 

 Lat. elytr. 5 mm. 



Hab. Chiyaka, Angola (Africa); ab auctore coUecta. 

 Typ. in coll. mea. 



Graceful species; head, thorax, scutellum and abdomen luteous; 

 antennae, elytra, breast and legs (except the upper portion of the 

 tibise) black. Head and ihxyrax long, narrow, rather finely punctured. 

 Eyes strongly reniform, antennce serrate, first 2 joints very shining, 

 sparsely punctulate, rest dull and clothed with microscopic hairs; 

 3d joint shorter than 4th; scutellum very finely punctulate and with 

 micrascopic hairs. Elytra shining, irregularly and rather finely punc- 

 tured. Legs black, closely punctulate, upper § of tibiaj luteous. 

 Breast and abdomen punctulate, sparsely covered with microscopic 

 hairs. 



One specimen taken in November, 1907. 



Subgenus NEMOGNATHA HliR. 

 'dTi. ZonitiB (N.) angolensis liar.. Col. Heft. XVI. 1879. p. 142. 



"Wahrschoinlich von Loanda oder von Pungo Andongo (Hoh- 

 meyek)." (Harold.) 



Type in Berlin, Konigliches Maseum. 



96. Zonitif fN.) annulioornis Mars., Joni. Sci. Math. Phys. Nut. Lisb., VII. No. XXV, |). 65. 

 Angola (Wklwiisch). 



97. ZonitU fN.) oioonla MarH., ibid., p. 66. 



Mossamcnles (Ancmieta). 

 9H. Zonitii (If.) poioka Wcllm. Bpcc nov. 



Parvn; caput, pectus, scutellum et pedes nigra; thorax et abdomen 

 Ixdca; elytra viridi-cceridca; capite subtiliter punctulato; a7itcnnis fdi- 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 623 



jormibus; palpis phis minusvc elongatis {scd polpis maxillanbus pro- 

 boscidem non jormantibus) totis nigris, albo-pubcscentibus; labro olbo- 

 inlloso; thorace luteo, Into, sparsim punctulato; elytris dense punctulatis; 

 nigro-subpubescentibus. Pectus et pubes nigra, albo-sericea; pedes 

 postici valde elongali. 



Long. Corp. 9 nim. 



ImI. elytr. 4 mm. 



Hub. Chi yaka, Angola (Africa) ; ab auctore collecta. 



Typ. in coll. mea. 



Small, elegant species; head and thorax broad, rather coarsely and 

 sparsely punctured, with pale microscopic hairs. Antennce filiform, 

 first three joints of about equal length. Scutellum very finely punc- 

 tulate. Elytra more finely and closely punctured than head and thorax. 

 Breast and abdomen very feebly punctulate, covered with short tine, 

 pale hairs; femora with similar hairs; tibire and tarsi with coaree short 

 black hairs, thickly set. 



One specimen taken in November, 1907. The specific name is a 

 local Bantu word meaning beautiful. 



09. ZonitU(N.) loapalaris Mar!)..Jurn.Sci.Math.Phys.Nst.Li8b.,VII,No.XXV,1879.p.67. 



Angola (\Vel\vitsch). 



UenuH DEBIDEA We.stw., Trans. Enf. Soc. Lond., 1875. p. 226. 



? Iselma HaaR.-Rut., Deutsch. Ent. Z<it., XXIII, 2, 1879, p. Jul. 



Westwood in founiling this genus referred it with an interrogation 

 to the Helopida), remarking in his diagnosis " unguibus-simplicibus."^ 

 lairmaire also {Ann. Soc. Ent. Er., 1891, p. 265) saj's of " Doridea (sic) 

 Westw." that while it "rappelle au premier bord, certaines especes 

 du genre Nemognatha," still "il en dififere par les crochets des tarses 

 simples." Thomas (Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., 1897, p. 389) has pointtnl 

 out that the claws are divided. The only properly generic character 

 given by Haag-Rutenberg for his genus Iselma is that the claws are 

 non-peotinate<l, and this character is sharc<l by Dcridca. The diag- 

 noses <(f both genera come very near to Zonitis, with the exception of 

 this important character, and I am incline<l at present to sink Iselma 

 as a synonym of Dcridca, whicli (I am convinced by an examination 

 <»f the type at Oxford and a series of specimens in the British Museum) 

 should be regarded as a good genus belonging by virtue of most of its 

 characters to the Zonitis group, but aberrant by reason of its non- 

 pec I inate<i claws. 




624 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC, 



100. Deridea ourculionides Westw., Trans. Ent. Soc. Lomi., 1875, p. 226 



Angola (Rogers). 



Type in Oxford, Hope Department. 



SUBF.\M. HORIIX.E. 



Genu.« HOBIA Fabr., Mant. Ins., I, 1787, p. 164. 



Cissiies Latr., Gen. Crust, et Ins., II, 1S07, p. 211. 



Gahan has recently worked out the vexed synonymy of this genus 



in a vahiable paper which I have read, by the kindne.>^s of the author. 



in manuscript.^ I here adopt his synonym}- (which is tlie same as that 



of Aurivillius uhi infra) of the species reported from Angola. 



101. Horia afrioana Auriv.. Ent. Tidskr., XI, 1890, p. 203. 



? Iloria senegalensis $ (nee c?) Cast., Hist. Nat. Instil, 1840, p. 280. 

 ? Horia (Cissites) testacea Fab., De Borre, Ann. Soc. Ent. Belg. C.R., 1883, 

 p. 136. 



Angola (Welwitsch). 



Described from tlie Congo and referred to the genus Cissites. 



* Since this was written Mr. Gahan's paper has been published (Ann. Mag. Nat. 

 Hist., Ser. 8, Vol. II, 1908, p. 199f.) under the title, "Notes on the Coleopterous 

 genera Horia Fab., and Cissites Latr., and a List of the Described Species." 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 625 



The following reports were ordered to be printed : 



REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRET.\RY. 



Since the last report of the Recording Secretary the meetings of 

 the Academy have been held, as provided by the By-Laws, on the first 

 and third Tuesdays of each month from December 3, 1907, to May 

 19, 190S, and from October 6 to November 17, 1908, with an average 

 attendance of forty-eight. \'erbal communications, most of them 

 illustrat€tl with lantern views, were made at these meetings Ijy the 

 late William S. \'aux, Jr., George ^'aux, Jr., Stewardson Brown, 

 Case}' A. Wo(j<l, Witmer Stone, John W. Hai-shberger, Philip P. Calvert., 

 Henry Skinner. Etlwin G. Conklin. Henr}- W. Cattell, Harold Sellers 

 Coulton, Spencer Trotter, Mi.-^s Walter, Charles S. Boyer, Thomas S. 

 Stewart, Frank J. Keoley and Henry A. Pilsbry. 



Thirty-one papei"s have been presented for publication by the fol- 

 lowing authors: Henry A. Fowler, 4; Henry A. Pilsbr\', 3; Henry A. 

 Pilsbry and Y. Hira.se, 2; Witmer Stone, 2; Ralph V. Chamberlin, 2; 

 Harold Sellers Coulton, 2; E. P. Van Duzee. I; Frank M. Surface. 1; 

 William S. V'aux, Jr.. 1 ; Frederick W. True, 1 ; Chiyomatsu Ishikawas. 

 1 ; Arthur Envin Brown, 1 ; Clarence B. Moore, 1 ; John Otterl)ein 

 Snyder, 1 ; J. Percy Moore, 1 ; James A. G. Rehn and Morgan Hebanl, 

 1 ; Robert T. Young, 1 ; John W. Harshberger, 1 ; Philip P. Calvert, 1; 

 Thoma'^ H. Montgomery, I; F. Creighton Wrllman and Walther Horn, 

 1; James A. G. Rehn, 1. Of these twenty-eight have been acccptetl 

 for pul)lication in the Procekdi.vgs and are now mostly in type; 

 one was withdrawn by the author; one remains to be actetl on, and 

 one, by Clarence B. Moore, forms the fourth and concluding number 

 of the thirt<^nth volume of the Journal. It is illustrate<l with fine 

 text figures and eight plates beautifully printe<l in colors. As usual 

 we are indebteti to the author for the entire cost of publication. 



The issues of the variotis publications of the Academy during the 

 year have amounte<l to 1939 pages and 133 plates, as follows: Pro- 

 ceedings for \\U)7, 159 j)ages and 9 plates; for 1908,444 pages and 25 

 plates; Journal, \'o1. XIH, PI. 4, 132 pages and S j)lates; Entomo- 

 i,(»(iir.\L News, 500 pagj's and 25 plates; Transactions of the 

 Amkrican Entomological Society (Entomological Section of the 

 .\ca<lenjy), 375 pages and 25 plates; The Manual of CoNCiifU.oGY 




620 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. . 



329 pages and 41 plates. This is 217 pages and 29 plates more than 

 the issue of the prece<^ling year. The statistics of distribution remain 

 the same as for the last two or three years. 



Four members have been elected, the deaths of eleven members 

 and six correspondents have been announced, and Caroline A. Burgin, 

 Hannah Streeter and Morris Earle have resigned their memberships. 



The Hayden Medal for 1905 was presented to Dr. Walcott at the 

 meeting held Januan,' 7, advantage being taken of the occasion to 

 invito the members of the Academ}' and their friends to meet the dis- 

 tinguished recipient of the award. The address of presentation 

 was made by Dr. Persifor Frazer and responded to by Dr. Walcott. 

 The delay in presentation was due to the preparation of a new and 

 greatly improved design for the medal. Under the terms of the amend- 

 ed deed of trust providing for the making of the awards once in three 

 years, the Hayden Memorial Committee unanimously recommended 

 the grant for 190S be made to Prof. John Mason Clarke, in recognition 

 of the value of his briUiant work as State Geologist of New York. 



The Council has authorized the Publication Committee to prepare 

 an index to the entire series of the publications of the Academy, to 

 include the issues to the end of 1910, and to be pubUshed in connection 

 with the celebration of the centenar}' of the Academy in 1912. Such an 

 index has been long desired by students of natural histor)', who have 

 felt the need of a key to the wealth of the contributions to knowledge, 

 many of them of the first importance, issued under the auspices of the 

 Academy by many of the leading naturalists of America. Of the 83 

 volumes which will have been published by the Academy at the close 

 of 1910, the manuscript index to the first eight volumes of the octavo 

 Journal and the first 19 volumes of the Proceedings has been com- 

 pleted. It is divided into two sections: Authors and subject, and 

 genera and species. 



Dr. Henry Skinner was appointed a delegate to the International 

 Congress on Tuberculosis, held at Washington last September. 



Resolutions were adopt c<l and duly forwarded endorsing the action 

 of the President of the United States in calling a conference to consider 

 plans for the conservation of the forestry, agricultural, mineral and 

 other natural resources of the United States, and in support of bills 

 for the purchase and preservation of the forest areas of the Southern 

 Appalachians and of the White Mountains as National Forest Reser- 

 vations. 



Kdwahi) J. Nolan, 



Recording) St crdari/. 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 627 



REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 



With regret the Corresponding Secretary records the death during 

 the past year of the follo^ang named correspondents of the Academy: 

 Henry Benedict Medhcott, Lord Kelvin, Henry Chfton Sorby, Prof. 

 Spiridion Brusina, Prof. Gustav Mayr and Prof. WiUiam Ivieth Brooks. 

 No corresponding members were elected. During the j'ear a few 

 additional pliotograplis and biographical sketches of correspondents 

 were received and have been added to our files. 



Invitations to the Academy to participate in the following notable 

 events were received : The Third International Botanical Congress and 

 the First Congress of Administrative Sciences, both to be hekl in Bru.s- 

 sels in 1910; the Prehistoric Congress of France, the Centenary Jubilee 

 of the Physico-Medical Society of Erlangen, the Inauguration of Dr. 

 Albert R. Hill as President of the University of Missouri, the opening 

 of the new Hall of the Physical Institute of Frankfort a. M.^and the 

 I'nivei'sity of Cambridge celebration of the centenary of tiie birth of 

 Charles Danvin and the fiftieth anniversary of the publication of the 

 Origin of Species. Suitable letters of acknowledgment or congratu- 

 lation were in each ca.se forwardetl, and as the Academy's representative 

 to the last named Dr. Arthur Erwin Brown has been appointed. In 

 this roimection it may interest the members of the Academy to know 

 that Darwin was electe<l a correspondent on March 27, 1800, witliiii 

 four months of the publication of the Origin of Species, and that 

 this Academy was therefore probably tlie first society to place its 

 olficial stamp of approval upon tliis epoch-making work. 



An invitation from the Section of Geology and Mineralogy of the 

 New York Academy of Sciences to join in organizing a series of general 

 geological meetings for tlie eastern Unite(.l States was referre<l to the 

 Geological and Mineralogical Section of the Academy. A letter of 

 thanks for the use of the Academy's Hall for its session of 1907 was 

 received from the American Ornithologists' Union. Notices of tlie 

 death of seven scientific men of distinction were received and acknowl- 

 e<iKe<l by letters of .sympathy. 



Copies of resolutions approving of the movement to establish 

 White Mountain and Southern Appalachian forest reeerv'cs and com- 

 mending the purpose of the conference to consider the conservation of 

 natural resources were forwarde<i to members of Congress and other 

 persons conceme<l and brought numerous favorable responses. 



Pursuant to instructions of the Council the Corresponding Secretary 




628 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC. , 



receiveil from several menibei"s subscriptions agjiregatiiig fifty ciollai's, 

 which sum was forwarded as a contribution from the Academy to the 

 fund for erecting in Paris a monument to Lamarck. 



The numl)ers of letters requesting information received and answered 

 continues to increase. 



The statistics of the correspondence for the j'ear follow : 



Communications Received. 



Acknowledging receipt of the Academy's publications, '-17 



Transmitting publications, 65 



Requesting exchanges or the supply of deficiencies, 4 



Invitations to learned gatherings, 7 



Notices of death of scientific men, S 



Circulars concerning the administration of scientific institutions, etc., . . 16 



Biographies and photograplis of correspondents, 4 



Miscellaneous letters, 88 



Total received, 409 



COM.MUNICATIONS FoRWARDED. 



Acknowledging gifts to the Library, \()~'i 



Acknowledging gifts to the Museum, 56 



Acknowledging photographs and biographies 3 



Requesting the supply of deficiencies in journals, 84 



Letters of sjTnpathy or congratulation 9 



Miscellaneous letters, 101 



Annual Reports sent to correspondents, 221 



Circular letters, 90 



Total forwarded, 1637 



Respectfully submitted, 



J. Percy Moore, 

 Corresponding Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN. 



The growth of tlie Library during the past year has been satisfactory, 

 notwitlistanding the incoiivcnionce due to the alteration of the premises 

 require<J by the plans adopted by the Council. The accci^sions since 

 the first of last December number 7070, an increase on those received 

 last year. There were .'>r>r)5 pamphlets and parts of periotiicals. 073 

 volumcss, 192 maps, photographs and plates. 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



G29 



They were received from the following sources : 



S<)cieti«'s, Museuni-s, etc 2,505 



I. V. WiUianison Fund 2,014 



General Appropriation 677 



Editors 530 



United States Department of 



Agriculture 336 



rnitfd States Department of the 



Interior 187 



Authors 148 



Janu's Aitken Mi'ips Fimd 139 



Geological Survey of Canada 47 



Geological Survey of Russia 42 



Estate of .Angelo Heilprin 40 



Wilson Fund 30 



Geological Survey of Japan 22 



I'nitrd States Department of 



('oninuTce and Labor 20 



Peiuisylvaiiiu State Department 



of Agriculture 18 



North Carolina Geological Sur- 

 vey 17 



Department of Agriculture of 



Netherlaiid India 17 



Trustees of British Museum 15 



Department of the Interior of 



tlie Pliili|)pines 14 



Geological Survey of Sweden 13 



Ministry of Puhlic Works, 



France 12 



I'nited Stati's Public Health and 



Marine Hospital S<.'rvice 11 



International Bureau of .\meri- 



can Republics 11 



Illinois State Geological Survey.. . 1 1 

 l)epartm«iit of Agriculture in 



India 10 



.Ministry of Colonization, liolivia.. !» 



I'nited States War D«'partment 



('ommis.Mon de la Ik'lgica 7 

 Cniversity of Texaa Mineral 



Survey 7 



I'nited StaU^s Trcanurj' l^'part- 



ment 7 



I'nited Statj-s Ihireau of Fish- 



erien 6 



I->lward J. Nolan 5 



Geological Survey of India .^ 



Geological Survey of Georgia 5 



Ministry of Works, Mexico 5 



Geological Survey of Portugal 5 



Wisconsin Geological and Natu- 

 ral History Survey 5 



Victoria Department of Mines 5 



Department of Mines, etc., New 



South Wales 5 



H. A. Pilsbry _ 4 



PubUcation Committee, Acad- 

 emy 4 



Department of Agriculture, 



Jamaica 4 



Western Australia Geological 



Survey 4 



New Jersey Geological Survey 4 



Wilham j'. Fox 4 



Corps of Mining Engineers of 



Peru 4 



Cape of Good Hope, Department 



of Agriculture 4 



Bureau of .American Ethnologj'.. 3 

 .Superinti'iulent of Documents, 



WiLshington 3 



Rev. A. Ik>utlou 3 



Department of the Interior, 



Canada 3 



Geological Commis.sion, (.'nin' 



of (i«hmI Hojm* 3 



Geological Institute of Mexico 3 



Geological Survey of Virpnia 3 

 Unit«'d States Coa.st and CnHKletic 



Survey 2 



Library of Congress 2 



Ministry of .Xgriculture, Buenos 



.\ires 2 



Ii<'ntham Trustei-s, Kew Gardens 2 



Danish Govenunent 2 



IVpartment of .Agrictilture, 



Canada 2 



.New //«alnnd Geological Survey.... 2 



WiHiam B. Davis 2 



liotaniral Survey of India 2 



.Agricultural and \'eterinar>' 



Faculty of I^i Plata 2 



Olwcrvatoiro Central Nicola*. . 2 



Iowa Geologicd Survi-y 2 




630 



PROCEKDIXGS OF T}IE ACADEMY OF 



[Doc, 



M. 1(> Due de Loubat 



H. Muller, Hanover 



Commissioners of Fisheries and 

 Game. Massachusetts 



Dr. Henry Tucker 



Florida !?tate Geological Survey.... 



Central Bureau voor de Kennis 

 Pro^^ncie, Groningen 



Genaro Garcia 



Marshall H. Sa\-ille and George 

 G. Heye 



L. Kreischer 



Dr. H. C. Chapman 



William H. Welker 



Ministrj- of Works, Peru 



Dr. Joseph Leidy 



Geological Commission of Fin- 

 land 



L. Schijtzberger 



2 Maryland Geological Survey 



2 State Geological Survey of Nortli 



Dakota 



2 Nova Scotia Department of 



2 Mines 



2 Komniission zur Wissensch. 

 Untersuch. der Deutschen 



Meere in Kiel 



Geodetic Survey of South 



Africa 



Government of India 



Estate of William Ziegler 



Stewardson Brown 



Department of Geology, etc., 



Indiana 



Department of Fisheries, New 



South Wales 



Hawaii Promotion Committee 



Trustees Indian Museum 



They were distributed to the several departments of the library as 

 follows : 



Journals 5,183 



C'eology 414 



Agriculture 365 



Botany... 231 



Voyages and Travels 150 



Geography 145 



General Natural History 99 



Anatomy and Physiology 74 



Ornithology 73 



Entomology 68 



Conchologj' 47 



.\nthropology 42 



Ichthyology 28 



Mammalogj' 23 



Mineralogy 22 



Helminthology 21 



Medicine 21 



Physical Science 21 



BibUography 10 



Herpetology.... 

 Encyclopedias. 

 Mathematics.... 



('hemistry 



Unclassified 



6 

 2 

 1 



1 

 19 



Eleven hundred and fifty-throe volumes have been bound. 



Fourteen volumes and 548 pamphlets dealing with subjects not 

 germane to the objects of the Academy were sent to the Free Library of 

 Philadelphia and, in compliance with the law, 8 duplicate volumes 

 and 74 pamplilcts were returne<i to the Government Printing Oflice. 



At the beginning of the building operations it was necessary to 

 temporarily arrange a j)art of the libraiy on a section of the entresol 

 floor to nmkc room for the extension of tlie iiall entered from Race 

 Street, as required by the adopted plan of alteration. This cliaiige, of 

 course, cntaile<l disadvantages which, it is hoped, will be remedied 

 when the entire hbrary is arrange<l in the new iMiilding on the southern 




19()8.j NATURAL SCIENCES OK PHILADELPHIA. 631 



portion of the lot. With the exception of works of reference (encyclo- 

 pedias, etc.), and possibly those on general natural histor\', the entire 

 lihrarv' is to be arrangeil in tiere of steel stacks. At present five such 

 tiers are provided for, extending from the ground to nt ar the roof of 

 tlie rear section of the new building, thus securing increased room 

 wliich is sadly nee<le<.l and, it is hoped, safety from fire. 



Mrs. James Woods, of Camden, Alabama, has thoughtfully presented 

 t(t the Academy a collection of seventeen letters written by Isaac Lea, 

 Timothy A. Conrad, Sanuiel G. Morton, Benjamin Silliman, Wilham 

 Hall and John Finch, from 1S29 to 1835, to Judge Charles Tait, of Clai- 

 ixiriie. Monroe Co.. Alabama, who was the first to develop, with his 

 correspondents, the Claiborne be<ls. of so much interest in American 

 ge«)logy as furnishing the most noted deposits of Eocene shells. The 

 letters contain several items of personal interest and indicate especially 

 tlic zeal and entiuisiasm of a former President of the Academy, Isaac 

 Lea. 



Acknowle«lgMieiit is due William J. Fox. for his efficient assistance 

 to the Librarian and tlie Publication Committee. 



Ed W A HI) J. XOLAN, 



Lihrnn'an. 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



The erection of tlic new library, stack, lecture hall and study rooms 

 and the alteration of the old building were begun early in the spring. 

 At the pre.sent time the alterations are i)racticallycomplete<i. while the 

 new buihUng is nearly ready for the roof. 



\ handsome entrance hall has been constructed at the Logan Square 

 iront, whicii has been carried through the old lecture room, making a 

 direct communication witii the first floor of the Museum. The stair- 

 ways which formerly connected the floors of the Museimi have been 

 remove<l to the vestibule, and all the rooms have been shut off botli 

 from the vestibule and from each other by regulation fire-<ioors, whicji 

 greatly increase the safety of the collectioius. 



A fin»-proof room has been coitstructc<l in the lower part of the old 

 lecture hall, which will be fitte<l uj) for the acconimfKiation of the 

 alcoholic collections, where they will be shut off from all other parts 

 of the Museum. 



Heat and gas |)ipes and electric light wires have been installed in the 

 vestibules ami entrance hall and a new lx)iler placed in the engine 

 house. 




632 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [l^^C-r 



During tlie early part of the year much time was spent in moving 

 eases and rearranging exhibits preparatory to the alterations, and since 

 July 5 the Museum has been closed to the public, the cases being 

 covered up and many specimens removed for safety. 



During the past month the cases on the fii-st and second floors have 

 been rearranged preparatory to reopening the' Museum, and the work of 

 reconstructing some of the bird cases is well under way. 



Many shifts of position among the exhibition cases have been made 

 necessary by the changes in doore and stainvays and the ^\■alling off of 

 the vestibule. 



The final cleansing of the halls will be undertaken as soon as the 

 painting of the walls and fire-proofing of the columns are completed. 



Early in the year the work of labelling the mounted birds was com- 

 pleted with the exception of the song birds, and the exhibition collec- 

 tion of Mollusca was entirely rearranged. Many of the articulated 

 skeletons have also been cleansed and remounted. 



Owing to the condition of the ^Museum, however, most of the work 

 of the staflf has been devoted to the study collections. 



The old rooms of the Ornithological department having been largely 

 torn away, the entire series of bird and mammal skins has been re- 

 moved to the top floor of the Museum, where far more desirable quar- 

 ters have been provided. 



Thirty-eight moth-proof metal cases and ten large white pine cabi- 

 nets have been provided for plants, insects and birds, as well as 200 

 standard insect boxes. 



Mr. Clarence B. Moore has presented another plate glass and nuihog- 

 any case for the valuable additions to his collection of Indian 

 antiquities obtained in the Southern States and Arkansas. Dr. 

 Pilsbry and Mr. Rehn each visited North Carolina for a few weeks 

 during the year and made collections respectively of Mollusks and 

 Orthoptera. 



Through the liberality of Mi-s. Charles Schiiffer, Mr. Stewardson 

 Brown was enabled to spend the entire summer in little known parts of 

 Bntish Columbia, where he secured a valuable collection of ))lants 

 largely new to the herbarium. He also visited liernuida in Februaiy, 

 with the aid of the Esther Hemiann Research Fund of the New ^Ork 

 Academy of Sciences, where another important collection was made. 



Dr. J. V. Moore spent the summer at Woods Hole, where some 

 murine material was collecte<l and numerous local collecting trips were 

 made by other members of the Museum staff. 



Among the important accessions of the year nuiy be mentioned the 




1908.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 633 



Henry Skinner collection of Lepidoptcra. the \'anclerpol collection of 

 East Indian birds, the Quadras collection of Pliilippine MoUusks, all 

 obtained by purchase. Also the Herbst collection of Fungi, present€d 

 by Mr. Herbst's estate, and a valuable collection of Central American 

 Coleoptera, presented by Mr. 1". D. Godman. A number of interesting 

 mammals were received from the Zoological Society of Philadelphia, 

 including the fine Indian elephant "Bolivar," nearly ten feet in height, 

 which is now being mounted in the taxidermical department. 



Details of work in several departments will be found in the special 

 reports, in addition to which Mr. H. W. Fowler has continued his 

 care of the fishes, and Dr. J. P. Moore of the Annelids, while Miss 

 H. N. Wardle has been engaged upon the arrangement and cataloguing 

 of the ethnological collections. 



The Curators are also indebted to Mr. S. S. \'an Pelt for valuable 

 assistance in the herbariimi, and to Dr. P. P. Calvert and Mr. E. T. 

 Cresson, Jr., in the Entomological dojiartnient. 



Many specialists have made use of the collections during tiie year and 

 specimens have been loaned to Dr. C. Hart Merriam, Dr. Charles H. 

 Eigonmann, Samuel N. Rhoads, W. I). W. Miller and Robert Ridgway. 

 An idea of the extent of the Academy's collections at the present 

 time may be gained from the following summary, although some of 

 the figures are necessarily ajiproximate. 



Of Mammals there are r2,41G specimens, of which 2,50(J are osteo- 

 logical or alcoholic preparations. 5(X) are mounted and the rest skins 

 with skulls prepared separately. The mf)re important indiviihial 

 collections are the S. N. Riioads collection of North American Manunals 

 and the H. H. Smith collection from southern Brazil. 



The Birds nunjber 59,579 specimens, of which about 9.(MM) are 

 moimte<l and 1,075 are osteological preparations. There are also 

 about 2,500 nests and sets of eggs. The notable collections comprise 

 that of Massena, Duke of Rivoli; the John (Jould Aiistralian collection; 

 the Boys collection of Indian birds; Canon Tristram's collection; 

 the Josiah Hoopes collection of North American birds; the Harrison 

 and Hiller collection from Sumatra; the (leorge L. Harrison collec- 

 tion from British East Africa (on deposit) and the Delaware Valley 

 ( )rnithol(>gical Clui) local collection. There are aboiit 000 types, mainly 

 of Cassin, Clould, Townsend. (lambel and Audubon. 



The Reptiles and Hatrachians amount to 1S,(K)0 specimens, the great 

 majority i)eiiig alcoholic; tliey comprise among others the E. D. Cope 

 collection and the Arthur lOrwin Mrown collection and include many 

 types, mainly of Cope and lialWiwell. 




634 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC-, 



The collection of Fishes coii^^ists of about 40.000 specimens, ami 

 contains the historic Bonaparte collection, the Cope collection and 

 also those of Haiixwell. Orton, H. H. Smith, Harrison and Hiller. 

 Rijgersma and others. There are manj- t}-pes of Cope, Abbott and 

 Fowler, as well as cotypes of Girard's Mexican boundary fishes. 



The Insects number about 369,000 pinned specimens divided as 

 f« >llows : 



Hynienoptera 



I^pidoptera 



Neuroptera 



Ortlioptera 



Hiptera . 



Hemiptera 



Coleoptera 



The most notable special collections are the Horn and Wilt collec- 

 tions of Coleoptera; the ^lartindale and Skinner collections of Lepidop- 

 tera; the Calvert collection of Xeuroptera (on deposit); the Osten- 

 saken cotypes of Diptera; the Cresson and Bassett collections of 

 Hymenoptera and the Henr}- C. !McCook collection of Insect Archi- 

 tecture. 



The collection of Mollusks numbers over 100,000 trays and more 

 than 1,500,000 specimens. Of this number 40,000 trays have been 

 catalogued and numbered as new accessions since 1893. The older 

 collection consists of the original collection of the Academy, begun 

 about 1817 by Thomas Say; the Robert Swift collection of West Indian 

 shells, about 10,000 specimens; the A. D. Brown collection of land 

 shells, bequeathed to the Academy in 1887, 5,400 trays. About 

 10,000 trays of these collections have been catalogued and numbered. 



The alcoholic collection of Mollusks consists of about 6,000 lots, 

 probably over 75,000 individual specimens. The number of types 

 of Say, Conrad, Tryon and others is not known, but since the year 

 1901, 925 types have been descrii)ed from the new material received. 



Other invertebrates number about 11,500 specimens, of which 4,000 

 are Cnistacea and 2,800 worms. The most important collections are 

 the Guerin collection of Crustacea, the H. C. Chapman collection of 

 •Marine Invertebrates from Naples and the Edward I'otts collection of 

 fresh-water sponges. 



The Herbarium contains aboiit 584,000 specimens of flowering plants 

 an«l fems, comprising among others the collections of Muhlenberg 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 635 



(on deposit), Pursh, de Schweinitz, Xuttall, Short, and Charle.s E. 

 Smith. The Fungi, Mosses, Lichens and Alga? number about 50,000 

 specimens and include the collections of Sullivant, de Schweinitz, 

 Eckfeldt, Ashmead, Martin, Ellis and Everhart, Herbst ami Rex. 

 Both departments of the Herbarium are rich in types. 



There is also a local Herbarium presented by the Philadelphia 

 Botanical Club, which contains about 20,000 specimens. 



The Palajontological collections comprise some 5,000 specimens 

 of \'ertebrates and 45,000 Invertebrates, of which 3,000 belong to the 

 collection of the Pennsylvania Geological Survey (on deposit) anil 

 7,500 to the Isaac Lea collection; also 1,500 fossil plants. There are 

 many types of Leidy and Cope among the vertebrates and of Lea, 

 Conrad, Gabb and Heilprin among the invertebrates. 



The general collection of minerals consists of 8.500 specimens, while 

 the WiUiam S. Vaux collection contains about 7,500 additional. Of 

 rock specimens there are over 10,000 in the Pennsylvania Geological 

 Survey collection and about 3,000 additional. 



The general Archaeological and Ethnological department contains 

 about 14,000 specimen.'^, including the Samuel G. Morton collection of 

 luunan crania; the Peale Hawaiian collection, the Haldeman American 

 Indian collection and the Poinsett Mexican collection (on deposit). 



The Clarence B. Moore collection of Indian antiquities from mounds 

 of the Southern States includes some 5,000 specimens, tiie basis of 

 Mr. Moore's papers in the Journal of the Academy. The William 

 S. Vaux collection contains 2.5(X) specimens, largely from North 

 America and Europe. 



SU.MMARY. 



MatninaLi, 12,416 



Birds .'>9,.'>7<> 



Reptiles, 1S.(H»0 



Fislie.s 40.(MKl 



Ins«'Ct« 309.tM)O 



Mollu8k.s, l.r.r.'i.iMKl 



Other Invertebrates 11,.')00 



Herbarium, (k)»,(KH) 



Fos.sil.s 4()..-)(M> 



.Minerals, ... 29.0(K» 



Archa-ology and Ktlmulnny 21,50U 



Total 2,836,495 



Samuel G. Dixon, 

 Henry A. Pilsbrv. 




036 proceedings of the academy of w>oc., 



Report of the Department of Mollusca. 



Tlie rearrangement of the general collection in exliibition cases has 

 been almost completed, table-cases of gastropods having been worked 

 over during the year. Considerable time has been given by Mr. 

 \'anatta to the determination and description of Hawaiian mollusks 

 sent by Mr. D. Thaanum, of Hilo, Hawaii, and to the work of picking 

 out and assorting upwards of 500 trays of shells from material gathered 

 by the Curator last year in the Florida Keys. Large quantities of 

 leaves and forest debris, gathered by Mr. C. B. Moore, have also been 

 picked over, and much valuable material, especially of very small 

 mollusks, obtained. 



Mr. Y. Hirase has continued to send Japanese and Formosan mater- 

 ial ; his latest sendings contain Korean mollusks, which hitherto have 

 been almost unknown. About 100 new species have been described 

 from this source during the year. 



Other valuable accessions are a series of marine shells from the Great 

 Barrier Reef, Australia, including cotypes of 19 new species, from 

 Charles Hedley. A collection from northeastern Mexico, from A. A. 

 Hinkley. A series of Irish slugs from Dr. R. F. Scharff, and many 

 smaller accessions from numerous donors. A large part of this material 

 has been worked up, and papers published thereon. The time of the 

 special Curator has been largely occupied in the preparation of the 

 Manual of Conchology, in which the families Oleacinidcc and Feriis- 

 sacidce have been described. 



H. A. PiLSHHV, 



Special Curator, Dept. of Mollusca. 



REPORTS OF THE SECTIONS. 



The Biological and Microscopical Section. 



The membershij) of the Section has changed but little during the 

 year. Nine regular and several informal meetings have been held. 

 On March 30, the fiftieth annivei"sary of the founding of the Biological 

 and Microscopical Secti(jn was observed l)y a banquet held in the 

 Section Room, at which were present regular and former memboi-s and 

 the officers of the Academy. The Director, Dr. J. Cheston Morris, 

 presided, and a<idresses were made by Dr. Samuel G. Dixon, Dr. 

 George A. Piersol, Dr. Arthur K. Brown, Mr. Witmer Stone, Dr. Henry 

 Skinner, Dr. James Tyson, Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry, Mr. F. J. Keeley and 

 Mr. C. S. Boyer. 




190S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 637 



The communications made during the year may be briefly sum- 

 marized as follows: Uses of the microscope in testing chemical prepa- 

 rations, by Dr. D. E. Owen; Leucocythemia, the Tsetze Fly and various 

 contagious diseases, by Dr. T. S. Stewart; opaque illumination and 

 numerous other subjects, by Mr. F. J. Keeley; miscellaneous objects 

 exhibite<l and described by Mr. William B. Davis; new and rare forms 

 of diatomaceie, by Mr. C. S. Beyer; rare forms of diatoms from Barba- 

 does, by Mr. J. A. Shulze; the organisms contained in various infusions, 

 by Mr. John G. Rothermel; other communications, by Mr. T. C. 

 Palmer, Mr. W. H. Van Sickel and Mr. Hugo Bilgram. 



The officers electe<l for the year 1009 are as follows:. 



Director, .J. Cheston Morri.s, M.I). 



Vice-Director, . . T. Chalkley Palmer. 



Conservator. .... F. J. Keeley. 



Recorder, . . C. .S. Boyer. 



Corresponding Secretary, . S. L. Schumo. 



Treasurer, ...... Thomas S. Stewart. M.D. 



rH.\RLi:s S. Boyer, 



Recorder. 

 Entomological Section. 



Dining the present year ten meetings of the Entomological Section 

 have been held with an average attendance of ten pei"sons. As usual 

 the large number of additions to the cabinet has necessitated the 

 greatest amount of work in the department. The large collection 

 of .\merican i)utterflit^ made by Dr. Hemy Skiiuior, numbering over 

 10, 000 specimens, was purcha.'^ed by the Academy. Dr. F. D. CJod- 

 man has presented 3,529 Coleoptera, representing 1,140 s))ecies, from 

 the Biologia Centred i- Americana collection, a most valuable addition. 

 One himdred and eighty-four insects from liurma were purchase*! 

 from W. Crumb. Dr. Henry Skinner presented 56 Lepidoptera from 

 various parts of the I'nitnl States. Seven lnmdre<l ( )rthoptera were 

 colh'cted by the Academy expedition to \'irginia and North Carolina, 

 (•onducte<i by Mr. .1. A. (1. Hehn. About five hundn^l ( )rthopteni 

 were jirescnted by Witmer Stone, .Morgan Hj-bard and .1. A. (J. Hehn, 

 from Pennsylvania and New Jersey. One huiKhcd and fifty-four 

 Brazilian Orthoptera were purchased from C. F. liaker. Two hundn d 

 Diptera from British (Juiana were receive<l from Charles T. (Ireene. 

 In all over 16,000 speciniens of insects were ftdde«l to the coIU-otifin. 

 Two hundnnl Schnutt boxes and four Brock tin casc.'^ were pnr- 

 chase<l. 



n 




63S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



The large collection of North American Hymenoptera has been 

 rearranged and some work done preparatory' to the rearrangement of 

 the Micro-lepidoptera. All the determined Diptera, except a few of 

 the family Miiscidse, have been arranged in Schmitt boxes and many 

 genera and species new to the collection were determined. All of 

 Osten-Sacken's types of Tipiilidse and Tabanadse were marked and 

 nmnbered. In the order Orthoptera, reports were completed on the 

 specimens collected in Arizona in 1907 by Rehn and Hebard. Con- 

 siderable rearrangement has been done in the study series. Dr. P. P. 

 Calvert has continued his important work on the collection of Odonata 

 and has finished his contribution to the pages of the Biologia Centrali- 

 Americana. A large number of Coleoptera has been incorporated into 

 the collection, including some interesting material from Fort Wingate, 

 New Mexico. The Journal of the Section, Entomological News, has 

 been continued and volume nineteen completed with 500 pages and 

 25 plates. Two Associates were elected and one member died. 



The following were elected to serve as officers for the year 1909 : 



Director, Philip Laurent. 



. H. W. Wenzel. 

 . E. T. Cresson. 



Henry Skirmer. 

 . E. T. Cresson, Jr. 



Henry Skinner. 

 . E. T. Cresson, 

 E. T. Cresson, Jr. 

 Respectfully submitted, 



Henry Skinner, M.D. 



Botanical Section. 

 f During the year further progress has been made in placing the speci- 

 mens in species covers, and it is hoped to complete this im])ortant work 

 at an early date. 



The additions to the Herbarivmi consist of the Hcrbst collection of 

 Eimgi, numbering more than 5,000 specimens, being the life-work of 

 I)r. William Horbst, of Trexlertown, Pa., and presented to the Acad- 

 emy by Mrs. Herbst; a collection of Pennsylvania Flowering Plants 

 nu<\ Ferns numbering about 2,000 specimeiLS, presented l)y Dr. H. D. 

 Heller, of Hellertowu, Pa.; presentations from various members 

 numbering about 200 specimens; a small collection of Hul)us, Amelan- 

 chicr and lietula, purchased by the Section from Mr. W. H. lilanchard, 

 and a collection of 930 specimens of Balkan Plants, ))urcha.sed by the 

 Acadomv, 



Vice-Director, 

 Treasurer, , 

 Recorder, 

 Secretary, 

 Conservator, 

 Publication Committee, 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 639 



The Conservator spent about a month in the Bennudas during 

 Febniar}' and March of the present year, by the aid of a grant from 

 the Ksther Hermann Research Fund of the Xew York Academy of 

 Sciences, when collections of over 800 herbarium specimens were 

 made. During the svnnmer. through the liberality of Mrs. Charles 

 SchtifTer and Miss Mar>' W. Adams, he was enabletl to make further 

 studies of the flora of the -Canadian Rocky Mountains, ten weeks 

 being spent in the region about the headwaters of the Saskatchewan 

 and Athaba.sca Rivers, when collections of more than 3.000 herbarium 

 specimens were made, including a number of probably new species. 

 Owing to the pressure of other duties it has not been possible to yet 

 give this collection critical study. 



The activity manifested in previous yeare by the members of the- 

 Philadelphia Botanical Club has been maintained during the past 

 season, more than 2,000 specimens being addetl to the local herbarimn,. 

 including a number of species not previously recorded as occurring 

 in the region. !Mr. Samuel S. Van Pelt has continued his valuable 

 services during the year as Curator of this important and rapidly 

 growing section of the herbarium. 



At the annual meeting of'tiic Section, the following ofhccrs were 

 elccte<.l for the year: 



Director, ...... Benjamin II. Smith. 



Vix'c- Direct or, ... Joseph Crawford. 



Recorder, ... Charles S. Williamson. 



Treasurer and Conservator, Stewardsoii Brown. 



Respectfully subniitttnl. 



Stewardson Brown, 



( 'ntiservator. 



MiNHRALOGICAL AND CiEOLOGICAh MrjiuN. 



The Section has this year held eight meetings (besides the Dcrcinhcr 

 meeting yet to come), with an average attendance of about ten. 

 Communications were made by Prof. Amos P. Brown, on ripple marks, 

 tracks and trails; by Mr. Edgar T. Wherry, on two new anth(»lite dikes 

 in i'hila(h'lphia County, and on the geology of the n<'ighl)orho(Mi of 

 Jacksonwald. Berks County; by Dr. W. J. Sinclair, on the geology of 

 a portion of the CJrand Canyon of the Colora«lo River; by Prof. B. L. 

 .Miller, on the geology of the Allentown tjuadrangle. <'onipare<l with the 

 Phila<lelphia region; by Mr. GillxTt Van Ingen, on the geology of the 

 area drainefl by the upjier Susquohanna River; by Mr. .1. F. \'aiu»rt.s- 




640 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [l^^CC, 



flalen. on silicified wood in the Xorristown shales of Bucks County; 

 by Prof. O. C. S. Carter, on tubular concretions, sheets and ])lates of 

 Pensauken gravel, cemented \A-ith iron In-droxide; by Col. Joseph 

 Willcox. on the geology and mineralogy of St. Lawrence County, 

 New York; and there were a number of shorter conununications and 

 various discussions. 



There were ten field excursions, with an average attendance of 25. 

 The excursions visited: (1) The copper deposits of Upper Salford and 

 Frederick Townships in Montgomery County; (2) The crystalline 

 scliists and limestones between Alton and Glen Hall, in Chester County; 

 (3) the New Red traps and shales between Quakertown and Perkasie, 

 in Bucks County; (4) the region of Bethlehem, in Northampton and 

 Lehigh Counties; (5) the New Red traps and shales in northern Bucks 

 County; (6) the silicified wood of the New Red and the minerals of 

 the crystalline rocks between Woodbourne and Neshaminy Falls, in 

 Bucks County; (7) the Cretaceous and Pleistocene formations near 

 Pensauken Creek, in Camden and Burlington Counties, New Jersey; 

 (8) the trap at Aldham, Chester County, and the Cambrian Sandstone 

 thence to Valley Forge; (9) the crystalline rocks and their minerals 

 near Lansdowne and up Darby Creek, Delaware County; (10) the 

 cross-section of the Chester Valley, from Devault to Malvern. Chester 

 County. 



Three associate members have been added to the Section. 



The following officers of the Section have been elected for the coming 

 year: 



Director, ...... Benjamin Smith Lyman. 



Vice-Director, ..... George \'aux, Jr. 



Recorder and Secretary, . Silas L. Schumo. 



Treasurer, ..... Miss Emma Walter. 



Conservator, ..... Frank J. Koeloy. 



Respectfully submitted , 

 Benjamin Smith Lyman, 



Director. 



Ornithological Section. 



Since the last annual report the Ornithological Dojiartment of the 

 Academy has been removed from its old quartet's to the top floor of 

 the Museum buil<ling — a far more desirable location, well lighted and 

 with ample space for the growth of the collections. 



New racks have berii crcctod to hold the cases and tlic^ latter have 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 641 



been arranged in systematic order. Many cases of large birds formerly 

 stored elsewhere have been placed in their proper position, so that the 

 entire study series of birds is now for the first time brought together 

 where it is readily accessible. 



Mr. Rehn finished the cataloguing and relabelling of the Tristram 

 collection during the year, and this material, numbering 6,180 skins, 

 together with several smaller collections, has been distributed in the 

 general series. 



Ten large wooden cabinets were secured for the accommodation 

 of the Anatida? and other large birds formerly arranged in temporary 

 cases. 



The labelling of the mounted birds was resumed early in the year, 

 and all the specimens, with the exception of the song birds, are now 

 labelled with technical and vernacular names and locality. Owing to 

 the alterations to tlie building some of the exhibition ca.^es had to be 

 taken down or altered, so that the collection has been temporarily 

 disarranged, but the erection of new cases will soon permit of their 

 proper displa\-. Many sj)ocimens of interest were secured during the 

 year, the most important being the Van der Pol collection of East 

 Indian birds, comprising 1.070 specimens, representing many species 

 not heretofore in the Academy's collection. 



The Delaware Valley Ornithological Club and the Pennsylvania 

 Audubon Society have continued to hold their meetings in the building 

 and have done much to maintain activity in this department. In 

 December, 1907, the American Ornithologists' Union held its twenty- 

 fifth annual meeting at the -\cademy, which in point of attendance 

 and interest was the most successful ever held. 



The officers of the Section for the ensuing year are: 



Director, 



Vice-Director, 



Secretary, 



Recorder, 



Treasurer uml Cunservutor. 



Spencer Trotter, M.D. 

 George Spencer Morris. 

 William A. Shryock. 

 Stewardson Brown. 

 Witmer Stone. 

 WiTMKK Stoxe, 



Consenxitor. 




642 PROCKKDIXGS OF THL ACADEMY OF [DcC, 



The annual election of Officers, Councilloi-s and Memljcrs of the 

 Committee on Accounts to serve during 1909 was held, with the follow- 

 ing result: 



President, .... Samuel G. Dixon, MA). 



Vice-Presidents, . Arthur Ei-win Brown, Sc.D., 



Edwin G. Conklin. Ph.D. 



Recording Secretary, . . Edward J. Nolan. ]\I.D. 



Corresponding Secretary, . J. Percy Moore. Ph.D. 



Treasurer, .... George Vaux, Jr. 



Librarian, .... Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



Curators, .... Arthur Erwin Brown, Sc.D., 



Samuel G. Dixon. M.D.. 

 Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., 

 Witmer Stone. 



Councillors to serve THREE years, Charles B. Penrose, M.D.. 



Charles Morris, 

 Henry Tucker. M.D.. 

 Spencer Trotter. M.D. 



CoM.MiTTEE on ACCOUNTS, . Charles Morris. 



Samuel N. Rhoads, 

 Dr. C. Newlin Peirce, 

 John G. Rotlicrmel, 

 Howard Crawley, Ph.D. 



COUNCIL FOR 1909. 



Ex-officio. — Samuel G. Dixon, M.D.. Edwin G. Conklin. Ph.D., 

 Arthur E. Brown. Sc.D., Edward J. Nolan, M.D.. J. Percy Moore, Ph.D., 

 George Vaux, Jr.. Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., Witmer Stone. 



To serve Three Years. — Charles H. Pem-ose. M.D.. Charles Morris, 

 Henry Tucker, M.D., Spencer Trott<M-. M.D. 



To serve Two Years. —Thomas H. Fent«»n. M.D.. .John Cadwalader, 

 E*lwin S. Dixon, Henry Skinner, M.D. 



To serve One Year. Ah. C. Newlin Peirce, Philip V. Calvert. Ph.D., 

 Thomas Biddle, .M.D., and Frederick Pnm<\ 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



643 



Curator of Mollusca. . 

 Assistant Librarian, 

 Assistants to Curators. 



Assistant. 

 Taxidermist, . 

 Jessup Fluid Students, 



Janitors,. 



Henry A. Pilsbry. ScD. 

 William J. Fox. 

 Henry Skinner, M.D., 

 Stewardson Brown, 

 J. Percy Moore, Ph.D.. 

 Eclward G. Vanatta, 

 Henry W. Fowler, 

 J. A. G. Rehn. 

 H. Newell Wardle. 

 David N. McCadden. 

 H. Newell Wardle, 

 Ezra T. Cresson, Jr. 

 Charles Clappier 

 Daniel Heckler 

 James Tague, 

 Jacob Aeblev. 



ELECTIONS DURING 190S. 



members. , 



January 2L — William J. Sinclair. 

 February 18. — Burton Chance, M.D. 

 April 21. — Henry H. Donaldson, M.D. 

 November 17. — Sydney L. Wright, Jr. 




044 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC, 



ADDITIONS TO THE MUSEUM. 

 Mammals. 



George Bassett. Red Bat (Lasiurus borealis). 



Otto Behr. Skeleton of Red Fox (Vulpes fuli'iis), Sullivan County, Pa. 



James Chatwin. Mounted Gray Fox {(Urocyon cinereo-argenteus) . 



Benjamin Chew. Six heads of African Antelope. 



Mrs. U. p. Crumb. Skull of Man-eating Tiger {Felis tigris), Tongoo, Burma. 



II. H. Firth. Mounted Porcupine {Erethizon dorsatum). 



E. M. Fryer. Whale vertebra, South Carolina. 



Dr. Joseph Grinnell. Forty-two skins and skulls of California mauinials. 



J. W. HoLMAN. Red Squirrel (Sciurus hudsonicus loquax), Ocean County, 

 N. J. (alcohoHc). 



David McCadden. Skulls of Sumatran Pig {Sus viUatus), Mexican Puma 

 (Felis oregonensis aztecits), Mexican Ljtix (Lynx baileyi), Wolf (Canis 7ncxicanus) 

 (2), Canada Ljtix (Lynx canadensis) and (2) Black Bear (Ursus americanus). 



Stephen Milstead. Jumping Mouse (Zapus hudsonius americanus), Atlantic 

 County, X. J. 



Mrs. T. R. Owen. Mummified cat. 



Purchased. Skeleton of Black Fish (Globiocephalus sp.), Cape May County, 

 N. J.; skin and skull of Orang-utan (Simla satyrus); skin and skull of Gray Fox 

 {Urocyon cinereo-argenteus) , Bucks County, Pa. 



J. A. G. Rehn. Jumping Mouse (Zapus hudsonius americanus), Rhoads' 

 Red-backed Mouse (Evotomys gapperi rhoadsi), and Deer Mouse (Peroniyscus 

 leucopus), Ocean County, N. J. 



S. N. Rhoads. Two mice, Adirondacks, N. Y. 



Dr. R. W. Shufeldt. Axis and atlas of Bear. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Moimted: Springbok (Antidorcas 

 euchore). 



Skins and skulls : Two Slender Loris (Loris gracilis) ; Clouded Leopard (Felis 

 nebulosa); Serval (Felis serval); EjTa Cat (Felis eyra); Pine Marten, (^fuslcla 

 nuirtes); Bandicoot (Peragate sp.) [some to be mounted]. 



Skins and 'skeletons: Long-armed Baboon (Papio langheldi); In(Han IClcjiliant 

 "Bolivar" (Elephas maximus) [now being mounted]; East African Elaiul (Tatiro- 

 tragua oryx livingslonei) [to be mounted]. 



Skins: Six skunks, female and young (Mephitis mesomelas), from Oklahoma; 

 Himalayan Tahr (Ilemilragus jemluicus); Robust Kangaroo (Macropus robustus)- 

 Skull: Brazilian Tapir (Tapirus terrestris). 



BiKD.S. 



Charles Beck. Purple GaUinulc (lonomis Jnarlinica) from New Jersey 

 (mounted). 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 645 



Exchange i^witli H. K. Coale). Two Califoniia Black liail {Creciscus co- 

 titrniculus). 



PcncHASED. Van cI«t Pol Collection of East Indian Birds (1,150 specimens). 



Joseph .Sapp. European Starling (Slurnus vulgaris), Ocean County, X.J. 



Dr. R. W. Shcfeldt. Two bird crania. 



R. R. Tafel. Eggs of Arctic Birds. 



Miss Axn.v J. Valentine. Xest of Cassique (Cassicus sp.). 



Zoological SociE'n- Philadelphia. Skins of White-eyebrowed Guan {Pene- 

 lope superciliaris). 



Crested Guinea Fowl (Gultcra crii<tata) and Parson Bird iProsthemadera novoc- 

 zealamlia). 



Skull and sternum of Ciuira Cuckoo (Cuira guira). 



Heitiles and ••Vmphihians. 



O. H. Brown. One Salamander, Cape May, N. J. 



C. H. Conner. Hou,se Snake (Lampropellis doliatus clcricuK), Montgomery 

 County, Pa.; Ilog-nosed .^nake (Ileterodon plalyrhiniis). 



H. W. Fowler and H. \V. CIrikkith. Small collection of .\mphibians from 

 Ci'cil County, Md. 



J. \y. Holm.vn. Anderson's Tree Toad (llyla andemotii), Ocean County, X. J. 

 Red-ljcllied Snake (Sloreria occi pUomaculata) , Ocean County, X'. J. 



C. J. Hunt. Several Amphibians and Terrapin (Pseudemys) from Xew Jersey. 



J. P. Moore. Bufo fowleri, Martha's Vineyard, Ma.ss. 



Joseph Parker. .\n(lerson's Tree Toad (Ilyla ander.'<:oni), Ocean County, X. J. 



Pi/'HCH.vsED. Twelve species of Lizards, Orlando, Ila. 



.S. .\. Rhoads. Two Salamanders, .Vdirontlacks, X. V. 



W. Sto.ne. House Snake {Lampri>i>eltis dolialus), Sullivan Coimty, Pa. 



E. G. Vanatta. Queen Snake (licgina Icbcris), Chester County, Pa.; two 

 Frogs, Chester County, Pa. 



Fishes, 



C. C. .\nnoTT. One Chui) (Scinolihis bullaris), Xew Jersey. 



Charles .\dams. Cush (Lota m(iruh)sa), Somerset County, Me. 



Charle.s \. Bahti.w. Walln-yed Pike (Slizd.'^lcdion vilrcum). 



J.VMES BovcE. One Hake (Mirlurrius billnearifi) from .\sbury Park. 



W. G. Carothers. Several Fislies, Cape May County, X. J. 



Dr. C. H. Er;en.\ian.v. Small .series of Cul)au and Suutli .\merican Fishes. 



J. B. Fink. Genitalia of Hermapiirodite Sluul. 



W. J. Fox. Puffer {lAtgncephnlus Icrvignluti); Selene vomer and Sea Cat (Felic- 

 thy/i), Ca|M' .May County, X. J. 



H. W. Fowler. Small collection of Fishes, Capo May County, X. J.; two 

 climbing Perch {Anahas srandens); small collection of Fishes, Horence, N. J.; 

 small collection of Fislu-s from Bucks (.'ounty, Pa. 



H. W. Fowler and B. W . Gkikkith. Small collection of Fishes from Cecil 

 County, -Md.; small collection of Fishes, Delaware County, Pa. 



H, W, Fowler .'md I'. II. llKRTZon. Small collection of Fishes, Ijuicaster 

 County, Pa. 




640 PROCKIODTNGS OF THK ACADIiMV OF [DcC, 



H. W. Fowi.Kit ami (". .1. Hrvr. Soveral collections of Fishes Irom ("ape May 

 County. X. J. 



H. \V. FowLKH aiul T. 1). Keim. Collections of Fishes from Rurlinsiton County, 

 X. J., and Xe\v!>ol(i Island, Delaware River. 



H. \V. FowLEii and David McCaddex. Collection of Fislies. Ocean City. X. J. 



H. W. Hand. File-fLsh (Altilcra sp.). Cape May, X. J. 



Joseph Hexdersox. Gar (Ti/losuni!< marinus). 



Miss Agxes F. Kexvox. Eel, Australia. 



D. McCaddex. Seriola zonata, Ocean City, X. J.; Hake {Merluccius bilinea- 

 ttis), Cape May County. X. J. 



R. F. Miller. Collection of Fishes and Reptiles. 

 Pexxsylvaxia Dep.vrtmext of Health. Micropterus dolomieu. 

 Dr. R. J. Phillips. Collection of Fishes, Cape May, X'. J. 

 H. A. PiusBRV. Small collection of Fishes from X'orth Carolina. 



E. G. V.vx.vTTA. Trout, Chester County, Pa. 



LiEiT. High Willoughby. Barrel of Fishes, Florida. 



IXSECTS. 



C. F. Baker. One hundred and fifty-four Orthoptera, Brazil (purcliased). 

 WiLLi.\.M BEUTE.v.MtLLER. One Lcpidoptcra, Manitoba. 



Brooklyx Ix.stitcte of Arts and Sciexces. Four Orthoptera, Venezuela 

 (for detennination). 



P. P. Calvtert. Eighteen insects, Pennsylvania. 



D. M. C.\stle. Two Coleoptera, Pennsylvania. 



E. R. Chexey. One Orthoptera, Xew Jersey. 



Coxxecticlt" Agricultural Experimext St.\tiox. Seventeen Orthoptera, 

 Connecticut. 



E, T. Cressox, Jr. Thirty-four Diptera, United States. 



U. P. Crumb. One hundred and eighty-four Insects, Burma (purchased). 



S. G. Dixox. One Orthoptera, Pennsylvania. 



L. A. DuHRiXG. Six Orthoptera, Algeria. 



H. T. Ferxald. Sixteen Hymenoptera, United States. 



W. G. Freedley, Jr. Eight Lepidoptera, India. 



F. D. Godmax. Three thousand, five hundred and twenty-nine Coleoptera, 

 Central America. 



C. T. Green. Two liundn-d Diptera, British Guiana. 



F. Grixxell, Jr. Xinety-.six (Jrtlioptora, CaHfornia. 



F. Haimh.\ch. Four Heterocera, United States. 



M. Hei».\rd and J. .\. G. Rehx. Sixty-six Insects, .\rizona. 



M. Heiiard. One hundred and eigiity-eight Orthoptera, five Lepidoptera, 

 Penii.*<ylvania. 



C. Ii/G. Twenty-five Blown Larva*, Pennsylvania. 



F. -M. Jones. Two Heterocera, South Carolina. 



H. H. Lyman. Tliree Heterocera, Canada (exchange). 



J. M, .MArP'ARL.\XD. Three Heteroceni, .Alabama. 



\. H. .Maxek. Thirteen Insrrt.s, Xortii Carolina (exclijinge'). 



J. H. Matthewh. Eleven I/«'pidopt<'ra, Cuba; thirty-five, India ^exchange). 



J. .\. G. Ukhx. One hundred and forty-four Ortho])tera, .\<'W Jersey; .seven 

 htindre<l Orthoptera. Virginia and .N'orth Carolina (.\ca<leiny ICxpiMJifion). 




1908.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 647 



II. Skinner. Ninety L«^pidoptera, United States. 

 H. Skinneb. Ten thousand I^epidoptera (purcliased). 

 T. Spalding. One hundred and twenty-nine Insects, Utah. 

 W. Sto.ne. One hundred :ukI ninety-six Orthoptera. Penn.^yhania. 

 E. S. Titus. One hundred and forty-seven Hjnnenoptera, Uniteil Statea 

 (exchange). 



-M. ToMiRA. Six Butterflies, Celebes. 



J. F. Tristan. Seventeen Orthoptera, Costa Rica. 



H. T. Van Ostr.vnd. Twenty-five Lepidoptera, Mexico. 



H. L. V'lERECK. Three Hjnnenoptera, United States. 



H. W. Wenzel. Eight Coleoptera, Xew Jersey. 



G. H. Wood. One M\Tiapod, Texas. 



J. Woodg.\te. One hundred and thirty-one Insects, New Mexico. 



Total specimens, 16,200. 



Recent Mollusca. 



Jacob .\euly. Vallonia pulchella Miill. from Phihidelphia, Pa. 



JoH.N \. .AxLEN. Thirty-one trays of shells from Maine and Ohio. 



JosHU.v Baily, Jr. Arion ater ruja L. from Neuen .\hr, Germany. 



Dr. Charles Bau.m. Ildix mxiralis L. from Paestum, Italy. 



Bernice Pauahi Bishop Mcsku.m. Fifteen species of Ilelicina from the 

 Hawaiian I.slands. 



S. S. Berry. Eleven trays of freshwater and land shells from California. 



E. Bethel. Seven trays of Oreohelix from Colorado. 



Dr. Samuel A. Binio.n. Cyprcea cervus Lam. and Liguus fascialus Miill. from 

 Key Largo, Florida. 



Stew.\rd.son Brow.v. Fourteen trays of shells from Bermuda and British 

 Columbia. 



Horace F. Carpenter. Polygi/ra apressa sculplior Chadw. from Crystal Cave, 

 Bermuda. 



George H. Cl.\pp. Three species of land siiells from .\rizona and Jamaica. 



T. D. A. Cockerell. Nine species of sliclls from Jamaica. 



Charles Conner. Spharium striatinum Lam., Jonestown, Pennsylvania. 



Prof. W. H. D.vll. Gonidea angulata haroldiana Dall, from near San Jose, 

 California; also Milux gngales Drap. frcjui Easter Island. 



C. Abbott Davi.s. Two species of Pleurodonte from Jamaica. 



Dr. Samuel Ci. Di.xon. Poli/gjfra nlbolabris Say, from near Mt. Alto, Franklin 

 County, Pennsylvania. 



M. J. Elrod. Seven trays of land shells from .Montana. 



J. H. Ferriss. Four spt'cies of land shells from .Arizona. 



Rev. W. H. Fluck. Five speriea of sheila from South .\lrica and Central 

 America. 



n. W. F"owLER and B. W. Grikfithh. Two trays «»f shells from Pennsylvania. 



\V. J. Fox. Crepidula fornirala L. from S»a Isle City, .New Jersey. 



\V. J. (iILchhist. yftmirionOi dc«cr(nrum P. and F. from near Parker, .Vrizona. 



.\. DaCosta (iOMEZ. Ancillaria lankrrvillci S. from W-nezuela. 



Geokue M. (iREENE. Four species of laml and fri'.shwater .shells from New 

 Jersey. 



G. Dallas Hanna. Eighteen spocies of shells from Lawn-nc*-, Kans:is. 




(J4S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF ll^CC., 



Dr. J. W. Hahshberger. Mya arenan'a L. from Long liranch. Now Jersey. 



Miss A. C. Hartshorxe. Three species of Japanese land shells. 



Charles Hedley. Thirty-four species of marine sliells from Masthead 

 Island. Queensland. 



J. B. Hender.sox, Jr. Twenty-three trays of land shells from Eastern United 

 States and West Indies. 



A. A. Hinkley. Fifty trays of Mexican shells. 



WiLMEH Hixkley. Planorhis irivolvis Say, from Boise, Idaho. 



V. Hi RASE. Three hundred trays of Japanese shells. 



P. C. J.\^R\ IS. Eight trays of Jamaican land shells. 



X. A\'. Lermoxd. Ten species of land shells from Maine. 



D. N. McC.\DDEN. Polygyra albolabris maritima Pils. from Ocean City, X. J. 



Clarence B. Moore. Sixty-seven trap's of land and freshwater shells from 

 Arkansas and Florida. 



H. B. Oakley. Fifty-five species of shells from Barhadoes. 



H. A. Pilsbry". One hundred and eighty-four trays of shells. 



John Ponsonby. Two land shells from Africa and Bermuda. 



Purchased. Two hundred and forty-two trays of shells from the Lowe- 

 Wollaston Collection and twelve hundred and eighty-eight trays of Pliihppine 

 Island shells from the J. Quadras Collection. 



J. A. G. Rehn. Venus mercenaria L. from Tuckerton, X"ew Jersey. 



S. X^. Rho.\ds. Cochlicopa from Hampshire, England. 



S. R.4.Y'.MOND Roberts. Four trays of sliells from Massachusetts and Jamaica. 



P.vul Rowland. Cochlicopa lubrica Miill. from near SapporOj Yesso, Japan. 



Mrs. M.vry' T. Sch.^^effer. Two freshwater shells from British Columbia. 



Dr. R. F. Scharff. Seventeen jars of .slugs from Ireland. 



Dr. B. Sh.\rp. Pleurodonte bornii Pfr. and Drymieus elongatus Bolt, from 

 San Juan, Porto Rico. 



Burnett S.mith. Fifteen species of land and freshwater shells from Skanea- 

 teles Lake, X'ew York. 



George W. Soelner. Vertigo pygmcen Drap. 



R. E. C. Stearns. Three species of fresliwater shells from California. 



WiT.MER Stone. Polygyra albolabris maritima Pils. from Piermont, X. J. 



D. Thaanu.m. Sixtj'-one trays of Hawaiian shells. 



Dr. Henry Tucker. Ostrea t'irginica L. from the Eastern Siiore of \'irginia. 



E. G. Vanatta. Xine tra3's of shells from Maryland and Pennsylvania. 



H. L. A'iereck. Pyramifhila perspecliva Say, from near Harrisburg, Penn- 

 sylvania. 



Bryant Walker. Twelve species of fresliwater shells from .\labama and 

 Michigan. 



Walter F. Webb. Eigiit species of land shells from Tangulandang and Cuba. 



Dr. H. E. Wetherill. One hundred and twelve species of shells from the 

 Philippine Islands. 



J. Renton White. Seven species of land shells from Paestum, Italy. 



Joseph Willcox. Five species of land shells from Xew York. 



Helen Winchester. Two species of land shells from Canadensis, Pennsyl- 

 vania. 



11 \\ . \N INKLKV. Cariim jolinxoiii W. fnjni Woods Unlc, .Mas.sacliu.setts. 




IW^..] N'ATUUAi. SCIKNCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 649 



()thki{ Ixvertehrates. 



Stewardsox Brown. One tray of Juhis from Bermuda. 



W. B. Davls. One jar of surface towings, ^^'oods Hole, Ma.ssacliu.*!ett.s. 



E. Den'holtz. One Mi/gale heintzi. 



A\'. J. Fox. One .sponge and sea cucumber from Cape May, Xew Jersey. 



J. B. Hexder-son", Jr. One tray of Cypris from near .\marillo, Texas. 



Mr.s. a. Ken^yox. P'our jars of invertebrates from .\ustralia. 



H. B. Oakley. Seven trays of invertebrates from Barl)ad(>es. 



H. A. PiLsHRY. Two jars of Crustacea from Florida and North Carolina. 



S. X. Rho.^ds. One jar of Camharus from Hamilton County, Xew York 



B. Fraxk Teal. One king crab from Cedar Beach, Xew Jersey. 



Dr. Hexry Tucker. Astrangia danice Ag. from the Eastern Shore of \'irginia. 



V. S. Flsh Co.mmis.siox. Seventeen jars of Barnacles. 



E. C}. \'AXATrA. One jar of Pseudoscorpioii from near .\cw Garden, Pennsyl- 

 vania. 



H. L. Viereck. Gelnstinius from St. AugiLstine, Florida. 



Dr. H. E. Wetherill. Tetraclitn porom Gmel. from tiie City of Panama, 

 Panama. 



1 XVKKTKHHATF. Fo.SSILS. 



Stewardsox Bkowx. Eight fo.ssils from Alberta. 



C. P. Cardwell (through Dr. Henry Tucker). Several Miocene fossils from 

 Virginia. 



Dr. Samiei. CI. Dixox. One tray of fossil bivalves from York County, Penn- 

 sylvania. 



Exchange. Twenty-four trays fossils from Missouri. 



E. M. Fryer. Two fossils, South Carolina. 



MoRG.vN Hebard. Three trays of fossils from Florida and .Micliigan. 



E.STATE OF .AxGELO Heilprix. Several fos.sils. 



Mr. Garhiso.v. Two trays of fos.sils from Santo Domingo. 



Ge«)RGE LfCAs. One fossil tree stump from Santiago, ('ul>a. 



H. .\. PiLSBRY. /{hijmhonelta concinnu from Wiltsliire, England, and Meekclln 

 occldentalis Xewl). from the Cliiricalma Mountains, .\riz(jna. 



G. HoiMAix. One (Mrea from Haiti. 



11. L. Shiver«. One Pl<iren(icera8 placenta Dek. from a well in Camden 

 County, Xew Jersey. 



Mlss a. Stone. Portlnndia glacialia Wood, from Drinkwater Point, Ctisco 

 Bay, Maine. 



\V. \V. Web.ster. Seven trays of fo.s.sils from Haiti. 



JosKi'M W'li.i.co.x. Sixty trays of fos.sils from \'irginia. 



Plaxts. 



.Xcademy Exi'EDitiox.s. liernuida, Steward.xon Brown collector, 8(XJ speci- 

 mens; Canadian H«»ckies. Stewardson lirown colleclor, :{,()<J() specimens. 

 Miss Mahgretta .\tki\son. Murrocahjx ni/rtelia. 

 CilARLKs (', M\<H>f\\. Cuniottelinuni rh i twnae uiui Xauniburtjid Ihijrsijlorn. 




0")0 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC, 



Edwix H. liAHTHAM. TliHc liuiidnHl iiiul si\t y-tlirt'c sjicciiuciis from various 

 places in the New England and Middle States. 



Botanical Section". Collection of one hundred and t'orty-tlirce specimens 

 of Riibus, Amelanchier and Beliihi purchased from William H. Blanchard. 



Mns. William Herbst. Dr. Herbst'.s collection of Funp, numljcring about 

 5,000 specimens. 



Bayard Long. Seventy-nine specimens from Delaware. 



Philadelphia Botanical Club. Twenty-five hundred specimens of local 

 plants, received from various members. 



E. G. Vanatta. Eleven specimens from Chesterto\\ii, .Mil. 



S. S. ^'A^" Pelt. Forty-six specimens from Delaware. 



C. S. Williamson. Two luuidred and ninet5--four specimens from Delaware. 



Fcssil Plants, 

 Pi'RCHASED. Fossil stump, Santiago de Cuba. 



Minerals. 



H. A. Green. Several minerals from Tryon, N. C. 

 Estate of Angelo Heilprin. Specimens of ores. 



Estate of Sophie F. Riley. Collection of Transvaal minerals and set of 

 Centennial medals. 



AViLLiAM S. "N'aux Collection. Twenty-nine specimens purclia.sed. 



Arch.eology, Ethnology. 



Clarence B. Moore. Numerous specimens from Indian mounds of the 

 Southern States for the Clarence B. Moore Collection. 

 Mrs. W. p. DorGL.\s. Canadian Indian Canoe. 




190S.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



651 



INDEX TO GENERA. SPECIES. ETC.. DESCRIBED .\ND RE- 

 FERRED TO IN THE PROCEEDIN(;s FOR 190S. 



Species described as new are indicated b>/ heavi/-focc<l: si/twni/ins by 

 italic nmnernls. 



Ahastor 122 



Al>riiinis crvsolcucas... 529 



Ac-iinthagrion grarile, 481, 487, 489, 490 



Acantliias 73 



blain^^llii 73 



\iilgaris 71 



Acridium 20 



Acris 125 



Acrvtiiuin longipenne 16 



Actf'iioda 602 



Aitcnodia 601-603 



Aclineinys 114 



niannorata 114 



Artitis iiiaoularia 153 



Adansonia digitat a 505 



Aogistu 34,41 



.iLoloplu.sari/.onensis 395 



tcnuipciinis 306, 394, 395 



.i:slma 462, 467, 468, 475 



brovifroiis 488 



comipera 481.489 



dupt'si -175, -JSK 



lut.-ij>cniii> 481, 45K) 



iimltic-olor 481,490 



pfrn-iKsi 489 



viren.s 489 



williamsoniana 481 



.I'.shiiin.T. MVl, -164, 468-470, 476, 4S5 



Agaiiia cullaris 1 17 



.Agclaiu.s pluniicius 153. l.')4 



.'Vgclena 293 



Apclcnida' KM), HiX 



Agciu'otctfix aiwtruliH 36((, 3s3 



cnrtiix-miis 36.S, 3S3 



Agki.str(Klnii 124 



inokaMon 121 



Agrioiiina', JC.2. Jfif. m^. 169, -170, 176. 



IS.-) 



AgroHtis cnarctata -I.'kS 



AHxila <ii<l>'in)i 555 



Allnirims nilirirron.s .'J^f. 513 



Alfi()|ii(l:i- .'lln 



AliHtiia Iciiclliiiii l.'iT 



Alligator ll.'? 



.\llocosa. Iti2. 163. Hit). 284, 284, 285. 



29S 



degesta 163. 285, 288. 513 



evagata 163, 285, 2JM) 



?exallnda IGS/l^l 



funorea 163. 285. 287, 292 



nigra 16S 



parva 163, 285, 2S9 



rugosa 163, 2S5 



sublata 163 



Alopia Aiilpps 54 



-\lopiidir 54 



Alyca'us cvclophoroidos 454, 587 



kurodai 454 



la-vis o8S 



tokunoshinianus 587. 5SS 



t. modiocri.s ,>S7 



t. priiicipiali.s 687. rtS~ 



tsusliiinaniis „ .VS(J 



Ambystonia 127 



sul)vi(ilacea 127 



Amliystomida' 127 



Ainiiuitrypaiiehre\-i9 354 



Ama'hoiJsifi 118 



Aiiipolis cvdroniin l.'>4 



Anipliarct*' arclica .'i4S 



Ainplian'tida- .ils 



Ainpliiardi.s IJl 



Aiiiphil)ia 121 



Anipliictoru' auricoina. ."f.i.-J 



AnipliicttMs alaskonsis. .349 



glal)ra .319 



sfaphulir.'iiiclii.Mta 319 



Ampliic'tciiida' 3.53 



Aiiipliiptcrvx ■M)2 



airrioidi's 49«) 



Ariipliisl.a-iiida' 119 



Ampliitiirnis iiaim.- .3(is, 376, .'Is.'i 



oriiatiis :{7(> 



Ainpliitritr palninta.. S.'><> 



radiata l\7A) 



rolmsta .'Ol 



AiM|>liinma r_»7 



iiicaiis. 127 




652 



PROCEEDINGS OF THK ACADKMV OF 



[Dec. 



AmphiuniidsB 127 



Ainyda Ho 



Anaides ; 126 



lugiibris 126 



Anatya guttata 489 



nornialis 489 



Aiiax 462 



longipes 488 



Anoistrodon 124 



Anconia Integra 366, 392 



-■\jielytropsis _ 119 



papillosus _ 119 



Anisagriou 461, 468 



aUopterum 481,490 



a. var. rubicimdum 490 



Anax amazili 490 



juniiLs 472, 481, 489 



longipes « 472 



Anelytropidse 119 



Angiiidif 117 



Anguis ventralis 117 



.\nisagrion lais 481, 489 



rubicundum « 481 



AnnieUa 119 



pulchra 119 



Anniellida? 119 



Anolis 116 



bidlaris 116 



carolinensis 116 



chloro-cyaneui? 116 



Anonnalagrion hastatum, 469, 472, 481, 



489, 490 

 Anota 117 



Mccallii 117 



Antilocapra anierioana 404 



.\ntinoe macrolepida 33fi 



Antrostomus vociferus 153 



Anura 125,126 



Apalus 620 



Aplirodita japonica 338 



negligens 339 



parva 339 



AphrtxUtidae 338 



Apoda 124 



Apomatus geniculata 361 



Araneus 281 



Area 7 



Arcosralpellum 108-111 



Arctfjsa 163 



finerea S8S 



l\Tix S82 



Arrhih'stes grandis 481 , 489, 490 



Aretha«a sellata 39.S 



Argia 462, 466, 4r.s 



adaniHi 41K) 



.481, 487, 489, 4'K) 



ngrioidps nnlninnn 



barret ti 



cnlida 



rhdata 



onpraurea 



AS] 

 17.S 

 t7.S 

 ASH 

 178. 4«K» 



Argia ciiprea 489 



difficili? 490 



extranea 481. 487, 489, 490 



fissa 481. 487. 489, 490 



frequentula 481. 487, 489, 490 



gaumeri 478, 480, 489 



herberti 478,488 



indicatrix 481, 487, 489 



lacrvnians 481 



imi'^ta 486,489 



oculata 481,489 



percelhilata 478,489 



pipila 480 



pocomana 478 



popoluca 478 



pidla 487,489,490 



rhoadsi 478 



rogersi 490 



tarascana 481 



terira 488 



tezpi 480,490 



tonto 481,488 



translata 472, 489, 490 



ulmeca 489 



variabilis 490 



vi\ida 481 



V. plana 481 



\\'ilsoni 478 



Argiallagnia 474,487 



niinutuni 478 



Arion 425 



Ari.stida lanosa 458 



Arithmema 602 



Arizona 121 



elegans 121 



Aromoclielys 114 



Arphia teporata 366, 385 



Arpliylla producta 466 



Aspidoncctcs 115 



Atacama conifera 352 



AthccjT 113 



.\tomarchu.s 120 



nmltiniaculatus 120 



Aiilonia 163,284,295,300 



ainantiaca 298 



fuiioroa 291 



Immifola 306 



.\ulocara rufum 366. 383 



Autodax 126 



Haiissia 118 



iiiil>rirata 118 



Hiiscjiniwni 121, 121 



Hatracliia 124 



Mafniclioscpp 127 



Uilidariii arinigon-lla 455 



( Mciisonclla) piicidenB 43 



Hison l)i.s(iii 404 



Hlattida- 368 



Huid.-p 119 



Multonia a.st«Toi(lfs 458 



HoOtottix argcntatti.s 376 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



653 



Bracliiariadigitarioides... 458 



Bracliyorros 122 



Brada pilosa 357 



villosa 357 



Bradburya ■\irginica 458 



Branta canadensis 153 



Breclunorlioga 462, 46.S 



inequiunguis 487, 489, 490 



pertinax 481, 487, 489, 490 



postlobata 489 



pra;cox 4g7, 489 



rapax 481,490 



tepeaca 481 



vivax 481,490 



Bruchus 610,615 



Bufo 125 



vulgaris 125 



Bufonid.'c 125 



Butorides \'ircscens 153 



C'alainaria atrociiicta 123 



lirachj'orros 124 



elapsoidea 122 



Calantica 106,107 



calyculus 107 



eos. 106 



falcata 107 



gemma 107 



grimaldi 107 



superba 107 



trispinosa 106 



villo.sa 106 



Cak'iiiys ■. 114 



niuhlcnbergi 114 



Caliiohfiys 114 



{'aliisaunisdraconoides 117 



Callizona aiigclini 340 



C'allopclli.s..... 121 



( 'allospcrinoplulus lateralis 404 



(•al<.I)t<TVgina-....4G4, 468-470, 476, 485 



Cahiptcryx 462 



('aiii|)().stonia anomaluin 518 



Canis sp 404 



Caniiarria batesi 489 



Caiinapliilavibex. 489,490 



Cantliaris 617 



bilasfiata 611 



sfiiiiiiilrns 677 



Capitcllida; 354 



C.'aicliarias » 62 



c-llioti 64 



littoralis 54 



taurus 62 



rarcliarii«lav. 54 



Can-liariiiiis . r»2. r)3 



broUHKoiietii (\2 



CRTUlcUS 62 



romiiwTsoiiii 62 



conmltirvis . 62 



glaurus 62 



lM't»T<il>i!incliiali- (t'2 



lictcrixli'ii r>2 



42 



Carchariuus lamia 62, 63 



lividus 62 



megalops 62 



monensis...- 62 



ustus 62 



veriLs T 62 



vulpes 62 



Carcharodon 63 



Carctta 115 



nasuta 115 



Carphophiops 132 



vermifomiis 122 



Carphopllis 122 



Carychimn noduliferum 455 



Castor canadensis fondator 404 



Catapliracta 113 



Cathartes aura....:..'. 153 



Catulus 53 



edwardii 53 



stellaris 53 



Caudata 124,126 



Celestas 117 



striatus 117 



Celithcniis 461 



cpouina 466 



Celuta 122 



Cemophora 123 



Centropliorus granulo.sus 69 



Ceiitroscylliuin fabricii 69 



Cerati('litliv.s micropogon 550, 551 



viiiilax 530 



Ceratoplivllum 444 



Ceraturacaprcola 480,490 



Cercidiuiii torrcyanum 366 



Cereas giganteus '. 3<W> 



Ceroctis 601, 602, 615 



vcspina 615 



Cervus canaden.sis 404 



occidcntalis 405 



Cha'todiloa iiiagiiji 458 



Cha«tosyllis .325 



Ch.Ttura pclagica ,. 133, 153 



C-eryli'uh-yon l.')3 



Cetorliinidie .5.5 



Cetorliiiius maximus 55 



ChamalycoiUt} „ oS6, .588 



Charina 119 



Cli.'loiiia 113. 115 



iMil>ricata 



Cliclonidie 



('Iu'l(»jiii 



riu'loiiura 



tiMuminckii.. 



Clu'lopus 



Cliolydra „ 



ClielydridiP 



('liilonuMiisciwstraminrus 

 Cliilosi-ylliuiii iridicuiii 

 ('Iiii<»mciii.scu.« 

 CliiliiiHttna 



Cl.lnrli.'.-lnid.r 



115 

 115 

 113 

 113 

 II I 

 11 > 

 113 

 113 

 123 

 53 

 123 

 lio 




654 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Chloritis.. 592 



impotens 41 



Clioropliilus 125 



Chlorosoina 122 



Cliondrotiis 127 



tcncbrosus 127 



Chono gracilis 360 



Chordeiles ^^rginianus 153 



Cliromacris.- 15 



miles 15 



nuptialis 16 



Chrosomus eos 520 



erythrogaster 519,520 



Girysemys 114 



Cicindela angusticollis 505, 508 



asperula 506 



aiuica •. 506 



bocagei 307 



bre\icollis 505 



b. clathrata 507 



I), discoidalis 507 



b. intermedia 507 



b. neglecta 507 



cabinda 505, 507 



cincta 512 



damara 507 



dougalensis imperatrix 512 



flammulata 508 



fla\ipes 505, 506, 510 



grandis 508 



graphica 508 



infuscata 505, 506, 51 1 



intermedia 505 



interrupta 508 



leuoopifta 506,508 



lugiibris 508 



lutaria 505,511 



mechowi 505, 506, .508, 511 



melancliolica 505, 511 



muata 508 



nilutica 512 



nitidula 505,507 



iiubifera 610 



ol)tusidentata 507 



octoguttata 511 



polysita 506 



prodotiformis 508 



piidica 507 



putzcysi 505,506,511 



quadristriata 510 



regalis 512 



reticostata 505, «(►» 



((Jpliry<Klcra) rufomarginatu 



bohcinani 509 



r. distanti 509 



r. poggei 509 



r. rirlitvri .")()9 



HaralienwH „ 505, 508 



H«!niicupn'a «„ 510 



wnegnli-n.si.s 507 



huturalis 606, 51(» 



Cicindela micivittata 505-507 



u. exigiia 507 



vicina 511 



villosa 505, 506, 510 



wellmani 505, 507 



Cicindelina 506 



Cicindelina? 504 



Cicindelini 506 



Cinostemidse 114 



Cinostemum 11-4 



flavescens 114 



pennsylvanicum 114 



Circotettix undulatus 391 



verruculatus 391 



Cissites 624 



Cistudo 115 



Citellus elegans 404 



tridecemlineatus pallidus.. 404, 406 



varicgatus gramimirus 404 



Citrigrada' 168 



Clausilia aculus 455, 564, 565 



a. coreana 455 



a. mokpoensis 455 



agna ^U- ^'l'^ 



a. spicata o75. 576 



aulacopoma 572 



awajiensis 572 



belcheri 455 



brevior 568 



cladopt}-x 585 



claviforniis 455 



<la>inon()rum 580 



d.viva 580 



dogcnerata 569 



d. nakadiana 569 



digonoptyx 564 



dolichoptyx 576 



d. micra 576 



castlakeana 561-563 



e. vaga 561 



echo 561. 562, 563 



entospira 579 



euliolostoma 562 



exodonta 578 



exulans 579 



formosentiis 569 



I f. liotawana 569, 570 



fultoni subsp. clavula 567 



fusHiiiana 455 



liacliijocnsis 580 



lic'iiiilcuca 574 



liifUonis mi, 567 



\\. s!HK'ia 567 



liilgcndorfi 565 



liirasci 576 



liolotrcma 575 



liypcntlia 571 



livjHTontyx 577, 57S 



li". sfzokocnsis 577, 578. 578 



idioplyx 584 



ikifii.sia 573 




190S.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



655 



Clausilia i. tsii.sliiinaua 573 



jacohiaiia 567 



j. jaeobiella 567 



jafKmica 565-567 



j. intcrplicata 566 



j. kobcn.sis 566 



j. nip|>oneiisis „ 565, 566 



j. var. fK*ro)>s(ura 565 



j. var. jwrstriata 565 



j. ultima ,... 566 



j. vespertina 566 



kikaiensis 576 



kohensis 566 



loxospira 566 



marti'iisi 566 



iiakada- 561,563 



iiakailai 569 



II. (Icpcncrata 569 



nakaiiosliiinana „ 576, oil 



iif'siotica 562 



uipponcnsis 566, 5(>() 



nisliiiiosliimana oGS 



oxypoinatica 57() 



pat talus oNd 



p. iiiivakcK-nsis.— 5S() 



pitrra 573 



I)latyauclien 571, 573 



j>luviatilis 571 



ptyclKicynia 575 



purissinia 575 



sarissa 576, 577 



.sul)ai-uhis 564 



sul)jap<>iiica 667 



suMuiH-Uala 572 



.s\viiili(i-i 509-571 



taiwaiiica 509, 570. 571 



tau .. 455 



tliautnatoponia 579 



lokaraiia 5.S(), .>.S(>. .'>Sl. 5S:i 



t. .saccatilMusis .580, aSl. 5S2, 5.s;i 



tosaiia 572 



triplfuroptyx 5<»4, 505 



vaiidiusrula 572 



vari<nata 561-50,'i 



V. var. nakadai 663, 5H9 



(Mcf:alopli»ilu«a) vasts 507 



ya«'yaiiu'iisi8 576-578 



nau.silii<ljp. 452,586 



Cli'iiuiiys 114 



CliricwtoiiiUH iiiarpirita 5^, 529 



("lyiiwiu'lla tciitaculata 356 



('i»'ini<l()plionis lis 



liy|MTytlirus 1 is 



.s4-xliiii'atu.s 1 18 



CoccyziH c-ayancnpis..- ^97 



rayaiiu.>4 493 



cayrrmcii.si.H 494 



rrythrnphtlialiiiu.H 153 



iiia<T<i«'«'rcu.s 493, ^97 



iiiiiiiitu.s .</M;. 490 



iin>iia<'lius J,i>ii 




6.56 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec. 



Covillea...- - 



tridentata 366, 



Criolis... 



Croc<xlilini.- 



Crocodilus _..- 



lucius 



uiississippiensis.- 



niloticus 



Crotaliis 



liorridus 



miliarius.-- 



Crotophytus _ 



dorsalis _ 



Crucigera forrnosa 361 , 



zygophora 



Cni-ptobranchidae 



CYyptobranchus 



allegheniensis 



Ctenosaiira „ 



rycluroides 



Cucuhis cayanensis minor 



cayanas 496, 



rayenensis 



inexicanus 



int'lanogast€r.__ 



ridibundus 



rutilus 4^, 



rubicundus 



Cursores 



Cyanogomphus 



tiimens 



Cyatliopoina micron.- 



Cyclophis 



Cyclopliorus formoeaensds 



f . interioris.-- 



friesianus 



herklotsi...- 



turgidas 



Cyclotiis campanulatus 31, 32, 



inintitiLs 



in. f|iu'lpartfnsis 



stei)omplialibi._„ 



tanfgashimaniw 



C\Tnatopleura angulata 



cocliloa 



Hliptioa 



gigaritfa.- 



grarili.s 



hilK-mica 



kinkeri 



marina 



rc'giila 



nhulzci •'iO^ 



Wilea 



Cynais ranis 



CynomyN li-urunw 



f'ypfnb* pwudovf»j5PtUf«. 



CVprinici.'f .^)17 



{'\ nigritUH. 



lJ;t. . ,. .; variogatuiii 



376 



620 



113 



113 



113 



113 ' 



113 



124 



124 



124 



117 



117 



362 



361 



127 



127 



127 



117 



117 



496 



Jt97 



493 



498 



496 



499 



496 



499 



168 



468 



489 



454 



122 



31 



31 



31 

 454 



31 

 454 

 454 

 454 



32 



31 

 554 

 554 

 5.54 

 554 

 554 

 554 

 554 

 554 

 554 

 554 

 554 



55 



404 



4.5« 



-553 



125 



125 



Diilatia.s licha 69 



Dalatiidic 69 



Daplinia 412, 425 



Decapotoma 601, 602, 604 



Decatoma 602 



Deirochelys 114 



reticulata 114 



Delphinida- 29 



Dendroica a?stiva 155 



I)lackbumi3e 155 



r?prulesceus 155 



coronata 155 



discolor 155 



palmarum hj-pochryssa 155 



maculosa 155 



pensylvanica '. 155 



striata...: 155 



\igorsii 155 



virens 155 



Dennstcedtia pun ctilobula 449 



Deridea 623 



curculionides 624 



Dermochelidae 113 



Dermoclielys 113 



Derotmema delicatulum 388 



havdeni 389 



laticinctum 366, 367, 388 



Desmognatludae 126 



Desmognathus 126 



Diadophis 122 



Diastatops 461 



Dicomptodon 127 



Diceratoptyx 583 



Dicliroplus 22 



brasilieiLsis 22 



Di ck.sonia pilosi uscula 449 



Didifla 115 



Diciiiyctylus 126 



Diploglossus 117 



Diplomiiiatina cassa 32 



follarifera...„ 589,590 



gotoensis 32, 33 



liaiigcliowensis 37, 38 



hirasei 590 



liungorfordiana 38 



kuiMojimana 589 



kvii.sliuonsis 33 



nosiotica 689,590 



nipponensis 33 



okionsis 589,590 



(». t.susliimana 589 



paxillus 38, 454, 588 



p. ultima 454, 588 



sagiiiata 590 



.sclunackori 38 



taii«'ga.sluina» 590 



yoiiakuiiijiiiiana 688 



Dipldiniiiatinid.'c 37 



DipsMsiiniiulatus 123 



I )ip>(isauru.s 117 



l)i-^i>st(ira Carolina 386 




190S.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



657 



Doliclionyx orj'zivoriis 153 



Doloinedes 293 



Dromica (Cosmenia) auropunctata 511 

 (Cosmema) inarginepunotata,. 512 



tricostata 511 



(Cosmema) wellmani 512 



Diomicina 511 



Dromogomphas 461 



Dryinarchon 121 



Dryinobiiis .'.. 121 



Drvopteris simulata 457 



Dythomis 466,468 



cannacriodes » 4.S7 



maya 490 



rufinen'is 466 



volox 487-490 



Eoaudata 124,125 



Ela?orlilora 13 



arcuata _ 13 



humibs 13 



picticoUis 13 



pulrhella 13 



triliiif'ata 13 



viridit-ata 13 



Elaps 124 



lacteus 124 



Irmniscatus 124 



Eleodiaris iiit«'rstincta...„ 458 



inelanc)carpa..._ _ 458 



oclireata 458 



rohliiiisii 458 



rostdlata 458 



Elptioa 616 



hi color 616 



cardinalis 616 



colorata 616 



la'viceps _ 616 



omatipeiims 616 



rufa 507, 616, 617 



etuhlniani 617 



Elodea 421,446 



Eiiipidonax minimus 153 



viroscens 153 



Emydoidea 115 



Emvdosauria 113 



EmvH 114 



IM-Ili... 114 



blaiidingii 1 1.'» 



europa^ 1 1 "» 



lonpicolliH 115 



liitiiria 115 



oniata _ 1 11 



pirta I II 



punctata - 1 14 



tM>r|M>ntina 115 



Ena (Huliminus) . 561 



con-ana 455 



liichiiana . 59S 



1. ncKJotica » 69N 



1. osliiinana 599 



n-iniana omirninH it I 



Ena r. ugoensis 34 



r. vasta 34 



Enallagma 462, 467, 468 



ca'cum nova?-liispaniie, 487, 4S9, 



490 



civile 469, 481, 486, 489 



pra?varum 460, 481, 486 



Encoptolophus subgracilis 367, 385 



texensis 366, 385 



Enpystoma 125 



Engystomatida; 125 



Ennea cava 455 



iwakaWa 455 



i. yonakunijimana 694 



Ensis 5 



Entoxychirus uyato 69 



Ephidatia 487 



longipes cubensia 489 



Epicauta 619 



canescens 619 



prolifica 619 



p. var. ehmda 619 



Epigomphus 468, 474 



subobtusiis 490 



tuinefactus 490 



Episcopus 369 



Eptesiciis pallidus 408 



fiiscus 408,409 



Eraprostissp 620 



Eretliizon cpixanthus 404 



Erctniocholys 115 



Ericymba biiccata 546, 547 



Erpetogomplius 462, 468 



cophias 481 



crotalinus 481 



elaps 481,490 



ophibolus 489 



sipodon 481 



vi|X'rinu8 487, 489, 490 



P>vth('mis 462 



attala 489 



p<'ruviana 489 



simplicicollis ~ 489 



8. collocata 481, 489 



vcrbciiata 487,489 



Erythrotlipiax 462, 466, 4r>8 



bcrcmcc na;va 488 



connata 481,487-490 



funerea 487-490 



odiraooa - 4S7, 489 



nmbrata 4M7-490 



Ilrytlirolaniprns 123 



lx)X aint'ricaiiUM 542 



Etiiioptcrus sj)iii:i\ 69 



Eublcpharida- 116 



Euchirotes.- 1 19 



biporus 119 



Euc-liirotidii- 119 



iOulalia longiconmta 329 



({uadrioculata 329 




658 



PROCEEDINGS OF THK ACADP:MV OF 



[Dec, 



Eulamia 63 



Inti^manus 65 



menisorrah _ 6o 



inillx»rti _ 62 



odontaspis <>3 



oxyrhjTichus 6o 



Eulota 42 



aperta _„ 593 



a. tumida. 593 



califrinosa 592 



cecillei 454 



(Aegista) celsa.„ 33, 34 



chejuensis 454 



ciliosa 454 



(Plectotropis) ciliosa 454 



(Euhadra) contraria 591 



coreanica 454 



eniinens 34 



fonnosensis 591 



fortunei 40 



fulvioans 41 



gott-schei 454 



hachijoensis 41 



hebes 41 



horrida 454 



inomata 41 



inrinensis 41 



koreana 454 



laeva 39 



lasia 454 



lautsi.- 41 



(Plectrotropis) lepidophora 



scutifera 33 



1. tenuis 33 



luhuana 454,592 



1. lati.spira o92 



micra 41 



mimula 454,593 



m. pt'iiinsularis 454 



?niunif*riaiia 37 



okiiiocrabueiisis 592 



orifii talis 454 



osliec'ki 41 



f.tgista) p-rangiilata 502 



p«'rplc'xa 41 



(Eulia<lra) picta 691 



proxirria 454 



purnilio ■. 454 



j>iirf)ura.scen8 454 



n'lfftrotropis) Hcitula 40 



wnrkfiibfTKiana 592 



Kii'lxildiana 454 



Huccinrta 591 



tt'nuiwrima 454 



vemicofla 454 



viiUivaga quplpartensiH 151 



Eulot4lla 40 



K\inifri-H _ lis, 119 



Eiinifc koN<>niiiii 315 



Eiiriicidii- ;M-, 



EiitKW- dcprofwa .'{33 



d. var. nmiiunillata 333 



Eupagurus arniatus 343 



Eupha-diisa 451, 561, 562 



Eupliagus caroliniLs 154 



EuplirosviiP arctica 340 



hicifrata 339 



l)orcalis 339 



liortonsis 339 



longisetosa 339 



Euphrosynidu' 339 



Eurvniorpliacvanipesinouffleti.505, 511 



E:iisoalpellum." 106-108 



l)engalense 108 



rciiei 108 



ro.stratiini _ 108 



?squamuliferum 108 



stratum 108 



EutiPiiia 120 



Eutaniias amcpnus operarius 404 



minimus consobrinus 404, 405 



quadrivittatus 404, 405 



Eutliore 461 



Euzonitis 6£0 



Evotomys gapperi galei 404 



Exoglossum maxillingua 535, 552 



Farancia 122 



drummondi 122 



Faroa welhuani 616 



Felis hippolestes 404 



Ficimia 123 



olivacea 123 



Formosana 569 



Fulgur 3-9 



carica 3, 5, 6, 8 



perversa 3, 6, 8 



Galeocerdo tigrinus 61 



Galeorhinidio 55 



galeus 57. 59, 60 



zyopterus 60, 61 



Galeoscoptes carolinensis 156 



Galeus 53 



melastomus 53 



mustelus 59 



Ganesella 40, 452, 453 



albida 593,594 



a. moUicula 593, 594 



■.'gradata 455 



japoiiira 40 



Gattyanaamondseni 336 



ciliata 337 



eirrosa 337 



senta 337 



Geckoiiida* 116 



Geigeria wellmani 615 



Geolyrosa 163,514 



ari'iiicola „ £4^ 



baltiiiKtriana £46 



rarolinenms...^ „ £4^ 



latifnms £4^ 



texana £48,514 



Georgia 1£1 



(leiirissji 38 



liacliinjiiiiii. 3S, IV.) 




1908.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



659 



Georissa heudei 38, 39 



(Georissopsis) heudei 38 



liungerfordiaiia 38 



iiivea 38 



sineoflis 38, 39 



.sulcata 38 



Geori.ssopsis 38 



Geotlilypis trichas 155 



Gerrhonotus.- 118 



liocephalus „ '.. 118 



te.s.sellatus 118 



Ginglymostoma 54 



cirrutum 53 



Ginghinostomida* 53 



Glauconia 119 



Glvcora nana.„ 347 



tpsst-lata. 348 



Glycmdie 347 



Glvdndc wireni 348 



Glyptomys 114 



iii-sculptus ~ lit 



Gnathiuin 621 



Goniphina', 462, 464, 468, 470, 476, 485 



Goniphoides 468 



.su&sa 489 



GomphiLs 461 



Goniada annulata 348 



Goniadida* <. 348 



Gophcrus 115 



Gratli.-ntiii 112, 113, 116, 124 



Grapliiptcruasp 511 



Grapteiny.s 114 



geographica 114 



GrvUidie 399 



Grvllus armatas 400, 402 



(Loriwta) lineatus 20 



I)ers<)iuitU8 399 



Gulo lu-sruM 404 



Gyinimii<lenion8i.s nivt»a 458 



Gyniiio|X)g<m urc\ifoliu8 458 



Gynacaiitlia 462 



s«'ptima._ _ 490 



til.iata 489 



trifida 489,490 



(lyriiiopliiliw 126 



Hadn.ttttix trifaHciatUA.... 392 



Hal.lf-a 121 



Hal...svdna inwgiiis 330, 338 



iordi 330 



pulchra 329 



Haniiotho* hirsuta.... 334 



itnliricata 334 



tniiicata SS2 



tiita 331 



HedrTa li.Iix 449 



Hrlijustusaridns :;<Ml. 392 



Hi-licida- m 



Hcliciria ')•)<) 



l)uld Willi riOO 



laoitiiiwji 560 



rot.lloidca... 56«) 



Hflieina uljprta 560 



Hdioops 121 



alk-ni 121 



cariiiicaudatus «.t. 121 



erytlirogrammus.- 122 



Helix oiliosii 452 



(Satsuma) gradata 452 



horten.sis 425 



poinatia „ 425 



rejecta 55^594 



Helniintliopliila pinus 155 



Helinitlieros vennivorus 155 



Heloderma 117 



liorridum 117 



Helodennatida> 117 



Helodronias solitarius „ 153 



Heinidactyliiun 126 



Heiniphaxiiisa 453, 571 



Ht'iuiscyllida' 53 



Ht'inizaptyx 575 



Hcptraiu'liias cincreus 52 



Hemiadinn trvmcata...- 332, 335 



Herin.'llida> 358 



Herpotodryas a^tivus 122 



getulus 122 



inargaritiferus 121 



trirolor 122 



Herpyllus „ 288 



Hcsionida* 341 



Hf*sp«Tagrion 461, 468 



lieterodoxum 481 



Hospcrotettix festivus 367, 393 



Heteragrion 468 



clirysop.s 489, 490 



erythrogastrum 490 



tricellulare 4S7. 490 



Het.-erina 462, 460, A(\6 



aiiit'riraiia 462, 472. 4Sl 



caiiitalis 4t)2, 4S<» 



rniciilatu 481, 487, 489 



fascoguttata 490 



iiil<'cta 489 



iiiacTopus 462, 487, 490 



iiiajascula _ 490 



nmxiina 488 



tniniata 480,489 



rudis 478,489 



titia 4r.2,4S9 



U)lteca 478,488 



triiolor 462, 487, 489 



vulnerata 481 



Mi'tM'rina*.-. 4(>S 



Hctt-nHloii 123 



platyrliimi8...„ 123 



Hpt«T<><loiitid:p 52 



H<'t<T<Kloiitu.H japonicus 52 



llrlrroEapty.x 576 



llcxaricliidaB 52 



ncx!iiicliu.s gri.'M'Us 52 



llihisiiw 607 



Hippiwa 1(K). 293 




600 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Hippisciis corallipes 3S6 



Hirundo er>-throgastra 137, 154 



Holbrookia 117 



maciilata 117 



Hololepida magna __ 329 



Holoscalpelluiu 109 



Homalocranium 1S4 



planiceps 124 



Hoiiialosapams.-- 17 



canonicus.- 17 



Homoeogamia erratica 369 



Horesddotes cinereus 379, 3S1 



papagensis 366. 379, 381 



Horia 624 



africana 624 



senegalensis.- 6£4 



xestacesL 624 



Horiinsp _ 624 



Hudsonius 535 



Hyalina maniillaris 694. 595 



H yalopomatopas occiden talis 362 



Hybognathus nuchalis..._ 521, S21 



n. arg>Titis 521 



n. regius 521 



procne oSl, 532 



Hybopsis amblops 549 



bifrenatus 531 



dissimilis 549 



kentuckiensis 550 



storerianus 550 



Hvcloeus duodecimpiinctata 6O4 



Hycleus 60S 



decimguttatus— - 6O4 



Hydra Airidis.-- 415 



Hvdrocenidse 38 



HVla 125 



arborea J So 



baudinii 185 



^■iridis..._ 125 



Hylidsp 125 



Hylocichla aJicise 156 



fuscescens 156 



guttata pallasi...- 156 



inustelina. 156 



ustulata swainsoni 156 



HylfKlcs gTAllus...- 125 



lineatus 125 



Hvprmeura 468 



funcki 481, 489 



lugcns 481 



Hypoparhus 125 



scobarhii 125 



variolfjsuin. 125 



Hyps<'loHtonia 43 



flioysidia) hcngrhowensis 42 



litinanrnsis 43 



nioysidia) hunana 42, 43 



HypMglcna 123 



f>chrorhyncha.-— — — 123 



Ictrria \nrpn.« 156 



Ictcnu golbtila 1.'>J 



Icterus spurius 154 



Idiozaptyx o83 



leuaiiidjp 116 



Inia 27 



Iridoprocne bicolor 154 



Ischnogiiathus 121 



Ischnura 462, 467, 468, 489 



deinorsa 481 



denticollis 481 



ramburi 469, 472, 4S1 



r. var. credula 4S1. 487. 489 



Iselnia 6£5, 623 



I.>ioetos dodgei 457 



Isole.ssa ferruginea 381-383 



texana 381,382 



Isopentra 619 



Isurus oxyrinchus 55 



Juncus setaceus 458 



Kaliella 598 



boninensis 598 



ceratodes 597 



coreana „ 455 



crenulata 455 



elongata 598 



fusaniana 455 



gudei 597 



g. mutsuensis 597 



koshinoshimana 597 



longissinia 597 



multivohis 455 



obesiconus 455 



pra>alta 598 



sororcula 597 



subcrenulata 597 



s. satsumana 597 



Ivinostemum b^e^'icaudatum 114 



longicaudatum 114 



Koeblcrinia spinosa 366 



Lacerta 113 



acanthiu-a 117 



bullaris 116 



chalcides - 118 



crocodilus 113 



orbiculare 117 



punctata It7 



quinquelineata 118 



serpens 118 



strumosa 116 



viridis carolinensis 116 



V. jamaiccnsis 116 



I^certilia 116 



I.mna nuda 352 



I>apisca niultisctosa — 335 



ni. var. papillata S86 



rari-spina, 336 



T^gorliina 617 



Uis 461 



T.amna comubica 54, 55 



I^unnidn> 66 



I,arnpr<HH'lti8 - 122 



I-aiiice heterobranehia. 360 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



661 



Loiinonia 163, 2i)7 



J>f' pidouotus cffloris _ 331 



fragilis _ 332 



robustus 330 



squaniatus 331 



Ijepidostenium floridana 119 



licptagrion 461 



I^ptlx'iiii.s vesiculosa 487, 489, 490 



Lt'ptoba.'^is 468 



vacillans 487,489 



I^ptodira 123 



lyoptopalpus 621 



Leptopliis 122 



aha'tulla 122 



I>eptotypli!<)pid«. 119 



Ix'ptotyplilops...„ 119 



Leptysnia 16 



filiformis 16 



gracilis 16 



Lepus aincricaniis bairdi 404 



canipestris 404 



townsendi 404 



Lestes 462, 467, 468 



alacer 481 



licushawi _ 488 



tcnuatus 489 



Ix'stiiiJi-. 462, 464, 468, 469, 470, 476, 



485 



LeucisciLs cloiigatus 527, 535 



inarparitn _ 527 



vanddisulus 526 



I^ucorhinia 461 



Libelulla 462, 467. 468 



a>irii)<'nnia 472, 4.88 



cornaiiclio 475, 488 



foliata 475,488 



luTculea 4S(», 190 



luctuosa 475, 488 



iiodisticta 476, 481, 488 



saturata 481 



s. cniccipi-nnis 481 



LilHlluliiia-, 462, 464, 468-470. 476. 485 



I^ichanura. 



trivirfjata.. 

 Lipurotcttix 



coquilletti. 



kuiizci 



I,ila'<)p>is liiicata 



3(i(; 



119 

 119 



:{('»() 



3S1 

 3S4 



4f>n 



Liiigiicla])NU^ Ii7 



If'ptunw 127 



I,i«Klyt<'s 131 



Liolcpisiiia..... I is 



I,i<>[M'ltis 122 



I-ifaiifutria skinneri ;<70 



Litliixiytcs 125 



Iy<»i'ii«ta _.. 20 



I^KMHtill.'f, ...,«„„.. 12 



I.oric'ifa „ 113 



l-iicliuplia-iiu.Ma .'ifiU 



Luinbriclyiiu'iK' pacifica. .i'ii\ 



Liimbrincridip.. .{Hi 



Luinbrineris heteropoda 346, S40 



Lunatia 5 



Lutreola lutreocepliala energiiin- 



enos 404 



Lvcosa. 1()0-162, IGS. 170. 170, 171, 

 210, 211, 211, 220. 221-223, 28^, 

 •2Sb, 287, 292, 293, 299. 299, SCM). 



514 



all)olia.stata 163, 226. 275 



aniinosa /6'4 



antelucana 163, 233, 513 



apicata 163. 224. 232. 513 



arcnicola, 163, 222, 223, 239, 21,0. 



241 



aspersa 163. 224. 236, 242 



avara. 163, 222, 223. 225, 226, 279. 



281 



avida 164 



bal)inptonii 163, 228. 229 



baltimoriana 163, 224. 246, 246 



bcanii 163.223.273 



bilineata 220 



bniniu'ivpntris 163 



canadensis 179 



carolincnsis, 163. 222. 224, 225. 

 245. 246, ^4A\ 514 



charanoides 217, 514 



cinerea, 163, 222, 223, 281, 282, 



283 



coloradensis 163. 223. 249 



ccnmiunis 163, 253 



concinna 205 



crudelis 163,229 



discolor 164 



doniifex f-^, 243 



dronid-a 202 



encarpata.„„_ 164 



^'J)ip^•nata 163 



erratica. 163. 225, 226, 245, 251. 



253 



niepigynata _.. 267, 514 



exitiosa 163 



fatifera. 161. 163. 222. 223. 238, 

 241.242,^4^,249 



fat i vera 513 



flavipes „ 179 



floridana. 163. 223, 225. 231, 2.s3 

 fron<lic<.!a. 163, 225, 226. 2.58. ^'.7. 



261 



funiosa 163, 272 



funeroa 286,288, FA A 



furcifera 204, 205 



fusciila 205 



g<'<»rgian« 164 



georgicol.'i I64 



glacialis 204,205 



gosiula 222,225.281 



grandiH 163. 224. 22<>. ^^/ 



giilowi 163, 225, 226. ^iiT,, 514 



growiixi* 164 



hnlcMlrotiia ^'Si 




602 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Lvcosa lielluo. 103. -'22. 224, 226. 229, 



231. 233 



lu'lvipes 163,229 



luunilis 217 



iiiunaculata 163 



intVsta 164 



indigatrix 202 



iiihonpsta 163, 242 



iinpavida 164, 199 



insopita 163, 267, 514 



iracunda 202 



kochii 163, 223, 263, 267 



latifrons 163 



lenta, 163, 224, 242, 243, 245, 245, 



246 



1. var. baltimoriana 224 



lepida 163,253 



littoralis 163 



lynx 282 



mccooki 513 



maritima 163,282 



inilhorti 163 



niihina 513, 514 



minima 177 



missouriensis 163,242 



modesta, 163, 163, 225, 226, 261, 



208 



niordax 164 



nidicola 163, 229 



nidiff'X 163,248 



niera 286 



nigroventris 163, 261, 261 



oblonga 164 



oercata 214, ^15, 220 



o. pulclira 220 



perdita 164 



permunda 164, 224, 233 



pliiladclpliiana 164 



piftilis 164, 225, 226, 270, 271 



yjik.i 164 



pilosa 164,248 



polita 164,279 



pratf-nsis, 164, 225, 226, 261, 263 



I)rr)i)inqua 164,253 



piidcns 164 



pulclira 164,267 



pimctulata 164, 224, 2.56, 258 



pum-Ui 164,267 



qiiiiiaria 16-J, 224, 277 



n-luc.-ns 217,r-,\4 



rijMiria 164, 224, 233, 236 



nil)icunda....l64, 222, 223, 278, 279 



nifa J, 214 



nifivontris 164,281 



ruricola , 164,245 



Hagittata 164,253 



saltatrix.. f/7,513,514 



Mjiyi 164,228 



sralarifl 164 



K'Mitulata. KM, 224, 253, 256, 256, 



256 



Lvcosa populchralis 164, 270 



similis *..164,229 



stemalis 188 



stonci 215 



suhlata 288 



siLspecta 164 



tacliypoda 199 



texana 164 



tigiina 164,238 



tristis 202 



tritou 164 



uncata 209 



vafra 164,229 



vehemeris 164 



venustula 217 



verisimilis 217 



vulpina 164,238 



wacondana 313 



xerampelina 199 



Lvcosida- 158-318 



Lycosides 168,169 



Lycosoidae 169 



Lydoceras 602 



Lvgosoma 118 



L\niina-a, 411-414, 420, 421, 424, 425, 

 428 - 430, 434, 436. 438,443.446,447 



cohmiella 410-448 



elodes 424 



megasoma 421 



Lynx uinta 404 



Lji;ta 001,617 



amethystina 506, 617, 618 



atroca?rulea 617 



bilineata 618 



Inpustulata 616 



buqiu'ti 617 



ca^lestina 618 



chalybca 017 



cinctifrons 617 



cpiscopalis 617 



liemicrania 618 



laminicomis 618 



macvilifrons 618 



melanocepliala 618 



m. var. bilineata 618 



mota.stemalis 018 



myrmidio 018 



notifrons OlS 



J )cct oralis 108 



rubropcctiis 01 H 



signifrons 617, 018 



strigida OlS 



.subrugiilosa 018 



tlioracira OlS 



vcUicata 019 



Lyttina' 002 



Lyttini 017 



Macrf)cli<'lys 1 14 



Macroclilamys liypostilhe 4.55 



rcjocta." 555,596 



Hubrcjccta „ 695 




1908.] 



XATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADKLPHIA. 



663 



Macroclemmys 114 



Macroinia 462,468 



Macrf )piis oaixana 496, /fOB 



Macrot lieiiiis ccheno 466 



homichlora 489,490 



inacuta 489 



psoudiniitans 487, 489, 49<) 



Malacho 007 



Malaclomys 114 



Malac'Oflemmys '... 114 



Maldane sarsi 355 



siinilis 355 



Maldanella robusta 355 



MaUiaiiidte 35o 



Manculus ; 126 



Maiiisuris rugosa 4.')8 



Manf)lepis 123 



Mantichora congoensis 506, 512 



liviiipstnnei 512 



Mantichorini 512 



Mantida" 369 



Marniota fla\iventer 404 



Mecistogaster 468 



modest us 489,490 



oniatus 489,490 



Mf'pafcpliala rogalis 512 



.M»'j;af»'l)lialina 512 



Mcfracf-plialiui 512 



M»'pd< )pri'pus cxrulatus 489. 490 



.Mf'gatra(li<-lus..._ 620 



Mcla-iiis lovmi 3.37 



Mflias corallirliynflius Jf96 



MflaiH-rpr's crythroceplialus 153 



M«laiioplusaridu.s 396 



atlaiiis .366, 396 



l>ro\viiii .366, 395 



c.nnonicus 368, 396, .397 



cuiicatus .395 



ffruur-iiigniiii 397 



fciinir-ruhruiii 397 



flalx'llifiT 395 



flavidiis 396 



li('rl)a<"(Mis flavescens 395 



(K'cidfii talis .395 



Mclimia rristata 3^9, 319 



dfiiliculata 319 



M.-loida- 000-624 



.Mcli)spi/a gcorgiana 15 \ 



Mephitis in<\s()inela.s varians 404 



Mcriiiiria trxaiia 371 



Mcriila inigratdria 1.5r» 



M<-s()scal|M-lltitn 1 10 



Mcstnliri'pnia (il)lit«'nita ;isf> 



Mftal<-pt<)l)a.sis 168, 47 I 



Mftidycjnis .587 



.Mcf.'itor pardaliiiiiiii .386. .387 



M»tiizapty\ 579. .580 



Miatliyria inanilln 189 



siiiipli'X 489 



Mic-ratlivrin UVJ. 46S 



dc'b'iliH 189 



Micratliyria didyma. 489 



dissocians 489 



exiniia 489 



ocellata 489 



Mirrooi'ii train affiliatum 399 



Microstiffina 461 



Mirrops liueatuin 120 



Mifnxvstiiia laiupra 4.55 



Microcvsti.s rejecta 59J^ 



Microcentruin 398.399 



laurifoliuni 399 



rhomhiiolia 398.399 



thoracicuin 399 



MicrotiLs niordax „ 404 



nanus 404 



j)onnsvlvanicu9 modestus 404 



Minicstlics 602 



MidKrvlliLs piotus 401 



Mitflla 106 



Mniotilta varia 155 



Mocoa zclandica US 



Molothrus ater 153, 1.54 



Murex fortispinna 7 



Mustt'la aniericana 404 



Mustelus equestris .5^. .57 



fells 59 



mento 57 



mustelus 56 



Mya 5. 6 



Myiarduia orinitus 1.53 



Mylahris 601, 602, 607. 610 



aflinis 60^ 



ainlngua 604 



auipliihia 61.5 



anciongoana 607 



aiigolcusis 615 



atrorlialylx'a 607 



l>eiigu('lana 607 



bicinrta 607 



bifasciata 612 



bifurata 608 



l)ilineata 60S 



bissexguttata f(08 



bizonata HO!) 



Ixtbeinaniii . 61.5 



carinifroiis (MIS 



clicvrolali »)0 1 



<liisarnlH'iisi> ti(K). r»0S 



cliiyakensis r»<l5 



c. var. tekaiii.i •MK') 

 clirysoMicliiia y'*y.\ 



(ActeiKKlia) rlirvsoinelina iUJl 



rirliorii " 609 



decfirata 604 



df-ntata 601,609 



(AeteiuMlia) dttHTticola »)00 



di'serticollis «MK{ 



dicincfa y'*)\) 



d. xar. I>u<pieti . 609 

 discn'jM-ns <i09 

 <li«ipar tHt9 




004 



PROCEKDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Mylabris ducKlcdiuguttata 



diUHU'cimpunctata 



oK-ndensis 



ericksoni 



exolamationis...- _ 



flavoguttata. _ 



pamicola...- 



Iiaroldi 



lieniiaiuiisp 



liolosericea 



liyl>rida 



interna 615, 



Jacob 



jucunda 



lactimala 



lanisrcra 



lanuciiiosa 



liqiiida 610, 



mixta 



inuata 



mylabroides 



inyof)s 



in. var. welwitsclii 



oculata 



o. var. moufleti 



o. var. oplitlialmica 



omega 



opacula 



palliata 



paiilinoi 



phalerata 



phelopsis 



pluvialis 601, 



p<^)8thuma 



regi.s 



(Deoapf)toma> regi.s 



ristripnttata 



nifit arsis i.... 



s<*nepalen.si8 



s. var. conjuncta _ 



serricomis „ 



sibyljp 



temporalis 



terpj'mina 



tincta 



tindila 



tortuosa 



trirolor 



trifurca 



trispila 



tristipina till, 



t. trildili 



tristriputtaia 



vill(»wi. 



yifburyi 



Myriopliylliim. 421 , 424, 431 , 



MyotiH evotis 



liieifupulonfocnu 



MytiltiM 



Nanomy!- 

 Naiiwi. .. . 



f!09 Nassa olisoleta 5 



t»((l trivittata 5 



WM» Xatica ampla 555 



609 bicolor 555, 557 



615 cliemnitzii 556, 558 



609 didvma 555, 558 



609 incisa 556, 558 



610 I intermedia 555,558 



604 lamarckiana 556, 557 



610 lamarckii 555, 557 



610 pap\Taoea 555 



616 p. major 556,558 



610 petiveriana 555, 557 



604 problematica 556, 558 



610 robusta 556 



610 secunda 559 



604 tasmanica 556, 558 



614 vesicalis 555, 558 



604 Natrix ISO, 120, 121 



610 gemonensis 121 



604 Nebrius 54 



610 concolor 54 



611 Necturu-s 127 



611 macnlatus 127 



611 Necydalis 6W 



611 Nemobius neomexicanas 399 



606 Nemognatha 621-623 



611 Neoneura 468, 474 



611 amelia 480, 487 



611 paya 480, 489 



616 Neoscaipellum 110 



611 i Neosorex pal us tris navigator 404,405 



611 j Neotoma orolestes 404 



604 fallax 404 



606 Nephepeltia 474, 487, 489 



601 plirvne 489 



616 Nephtlivdida? 341 



612 Nepthvs a.s.similis 342 



612 oiliata 341 



612 oflpca 341 



616 longisetosa S^S 



612 malmgreni 342 



606 Nereidie 342 



604 Nereis aga.ssizi 344 



613 armillaris S23 



618 brandti 344 



con cyrlurus 343 



614 dumerilii 344 



616 limbata 344 



614 paiu-identata 343 



Cil.') pelagiea „» 342 



614 procera 343 



(11.") v<'xillf>sa 344 



t'.io (Aiitta) vexillosa 344 



615 virens 344 



44fi (.\litta) virens 344 



408 I Ncritauml»ilicatalivida 555 



408 Nero<iia ItO 



6 Nicomaelie earinata _ 356 



111 Ninoi'nigripps - 347 



5 , Hiinpla 347 




1908.] 



XATURAL ^CIKNCES OF PHILADKLPHIA. 



665 



Xotliria pi-opliilifonms..— 34<) 



iriik'.scens 345 



Xotoiiiast iLs pgantous 3.54 



Xotopliylluin iinl)ricatuiii 329 



Xotropisarioiniuuii .535 



atlu'rinoides 542 



bifr«>natus 53(), 531 



hoops _. 535 



cayiiKa 6SS 



ehalyl>{eus 541 



comutiLs .'... 539 



delioiosiis 531, .5.35 



d. straniineus. 531 



liud.sonins 535, 536 



h. ainarus 536 



kfimi 533 



])liotoKenis 544, .545 



p. ainccnus _ 545 



procne 531, .5.32 



rubrifrons 542 



lunhratilis ardens - 545 



wliiiiplii 537, .539 



\v. aiialostanus.„ 53>i 



smbricops 53.5, .541 



jojunas 5.35. 542 



Nuda 1-M 



Nychia amondspni •>>'' 



N'vcticorax nycticorax najvius 153 



( )chotoiia saxatilis 404, 405 



OctoKoiiiphiLs Mil 



( Klocoilfus licinionus „. 104 



inafTouru.s 404 



Odontji-spis G.5 



Oiiontocliila erytliropvira .505. .500. 511 



varivcnlri.x '>'>i^ 



Odoiitochilina VKi 



(EeantliiLs nifJTiconiis 402 



iiivcuM 402 



quadripunctatus .300, 402 



(Kiuw f.20 



bicolor . <i20 



inclanura f(20 



< >ligosoina lis 



<»iiialot<'ttix . 17 



Mpiati|x-ri 17 



OmiiM'Xeclia 12 



wrvilK'i ,. . 12 



( )inpliaIotropi.s j:i|Miiii(-:i 1.54 



(>iiiipiii<l:i' 345 



< )|M'as clavtilinutn ... 155 



c. kyotiM-ns*'. . . 1.55 



liciidri 155 



javaiiiciiiii 155 



Opliiliidav .351 



«)pli.'<Klr\- 122 



()pliil)oln> 132 



Opiiidia 119 



(»pliidii 119 



( )pliioKoiiipliiis |t>l 



I )pliio((loH.4iiin an>iiariiiin 157 



( >pliiHj»iiru>* 117 



Ophryodera lx)heiiiam 



distanti 



rutomarKinata 506, 



Opororiiis foniio.sa 



Urectolobus barbalu:5 



japouicus 



Orophas 



rotincrvis...- 



salicifolia 



OrphuK'lla eompta „ 367, 



Oploii:i'sc-hiia 461, 402. 



armata 400, 



OrtlH-iiii.s 462, 



biolleji 



femiginea 481, 4S9, 



levis 4iS7, 



Osceola /. 



Ostrea 



Otiionna 



Ovis canadensis 



Oxyeclui.s vocifcrus _ 



( )xyn()tn.s ccritrina 



Pacliydiphix kmgipennis 



Paheninenia 468. 



anpelina 



dr'siderata 



paulina 



raltothcnii.-^linpatipos 4S1, 4S7. 



I'andion liali;ftu.-< carolinensis 



raiiicuiii condonsuni 



I'antala 



fiavcscens....462, 472, 481, 489, 



liyinena'a 



Paraconiops _ 



lonpip<'nne.._ 



I'.iraini'ciuni...„ 



I'araiiariuni niobola 



I'aranlil.-bia 461. 467, 46s. 



liyalina 



I'arazaptyx 



i'arattttix toltecus 366, 36.S, 



Tardo-sa, 100-103, 168-170. 171. 

 •2l\. 21 1,284, '292, 3LK)- 



173 174. 



allioniactilata 



albopatclla 

 annuli|K-s — 



atra 101, 



i>ank8i _ 101. 



biliiicata 



brtiiiuca 



iidilorriic-a 1<>' 



(•.•iiiadcn-'is 



«'oI(>rad<'ii>i^ 



coni'inna 



di.'^ti i<'t:i 



d<trsjili< 



droni<m. 



flaviiMs 

 noritlana 



W4 



172 

 173. 



.164 

 192 



ItiA 



HiJ. 173.174 

 tH4 



itu, i: 



101 



509 



509 



.509 



1.55 



53 



53 



398 



398 



398 



378 



40S 



481 



468 



480 



490 



489 



122 



0.7 



015 



404 



153 



6S 



481 



474 



4S9 



47S 



4S9 



UMI 



l.-)3 



J.5S 



162 



4«K) 



489 



10 



10 



441 



.')()() 



IS7 



isl 



579 



371 



210. 



:i02, 



310 



20? 



ISS 



1S2 

 22<l 

 2n.', 



at.', 

 1(14 



ISS 

 2(JS 

 192 

 21 )H 



t(>4 

 174 



17 a 

 /'•■; 




bt>() 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Panlosa fiircitcra /h*4. -'^~ 



lusfula 164, 2()6. 207 



pnu-ilis !B17 



grcptilandica, 1G4. 172. 174, 1S9, 

 JDU. 202 



iinpavida lb'4 



iiulipatrix 164,203 



intn-pida 164 



iracnnda 164,202 



lal.radorensis 164. 173. 205, 207 



hipidiana 514 



lapidiiina. 164, 173, 174, 1^4, 195, 

 197, 198 



littoralis 164,183 



longispinata 164, 173, 209 



luteola 164. 18S, 192 



mackenziana 165, 173, 174, 207 



nuTfurialis Ifio. 197. 514 



inilvina 165, 173, 174, 177, 179 



minima 16S. 177 



modica 165. 174. 202, 207 



m. var. brumiea 172, 205 



ma?sta 165, 173. 183 



montana 166,199 



nipra 286 



nigropalpis 165. 179. 514 



ol>soU-ta 197 



pal!id;t 165, 179, 191, 192 



parvnla 165 



pau\illa 165, 173, 174. ISO 



saxatilis 165, 173. 174 



scita 165. 179, 514 



sinistra 165,202 



solivaga 215 



stf-niaUs 165, 172, 174. 185, 188 



tac-hvpoda 165, 199 



U'xaiia 165,197 



tristis 165,202 



uncata 165.209 



venusta 165,197 



xorainpelina 165, 172, 198 



Parrpiscopus 369 



Paroponiala acris 371, 375 



calannis 371 



rvlincirica 371 



• lissimilis — 371 



pallida •^"'•i^i:^ 



|KT|)allida 3().S, .*{".'{ 



virjrata 371 



Pa.«palinn KJaliratum 458 



PiiKHiTcnlu.s sandwiohensis savanna 154 



Pa.s.s«Tflia iliafa 154 



PiiKHiTinu cvaiH-a. 151 



I'fctiiiaria Huri<<ima •<"».{ 



Pi'i.xidin- !u«|M'ra '■^'■^'^ 



Pr|i.l)atidH' 12r> 



P«Tili*>*f«"« 474 



fruicilis 478,490 



P<TipIan«'tHamcricana 3fi8 



P.rillK-miH 462 



domitiu intm.sa ISI, ISO 



IVritliemis d. iris 487,489 



d. mooma 489 



Peromyscus nebracensis 404, 406 



rnfiiius 404 



truoi nasutus 404 



Pctaloc'lilamys 594 



docnit/.i 596 



porfragilis 596 



p. sakui 596 



p. sliiUokuensis 596 



planata 595 



planiila 595 



(luclpartensis 455 



rejecta 594-596 



.serenus 596 



subrcjecta 455, 595, 596 



Pctalopnatlnis 123 



Petrocliclidoii lunilrons 154 



PlioidDli' puiu-tulata 508 



Pli('na{'ol)iu.s teretvilus 546 



Plu'iiacoMivs prpl)k'i 404, 406 



Philojienia". 468,474 



Phimothyra 122 



Phohr miiuita 338 



Plirviiosoma 117 



PlirVnotcttix niagnus 366, 393 



PhyUodactylus 116 



pulclier 116 



Plivllodocc oitrina 328, 328 



mucosa 32H,328 



Pliyllodoc-ida^ 328 



Pliyllorliync'lius 122 



browni 122 



Physa 412,413 



Piava 492-501 



" boliviana 493, 496 



bracliyptera >{.W 



cabanisi 495 



caiica' 492,495 



cavana 492-495,497-501 



c. i)oliviana 497, 501 



c. cal)anisi 500 



c. caut-a' 497, 499 



c. cavana 497 



c. c(»luml>iana 497, 498 



c. nuaiicnsis 498 



c. iiisiilMiia 497, 498. 4.9S 



r. macrniira 497, 501 



c. mdilcri 497.499 



c. mcxicana 197. 498 



c. nifiricrissa 497, 5(M) 



c. pallcsccns 197, 500 



circc 494, .W/ 



c. var. guauraina 501 



Columbiana 493, 495. 497. 500 



columbiaiHW... 494. 498, 499 



Hu.'imnia. 495 



miiniicMsis 491, 195 



insulnna 493.495,499,500 



macroura 49:i-497, /iOl, >5ry/ 



niacrounis 494 




190S.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



667 



Piaya melileri 492. 494, 495, 499, 5(M) 



melanogiistiT 490 



mclanogastra 492, 495, 496 



mesurus -IQ-l 



mcxicana 492, 494, 495 



inexicanus 494, 498 



ininuta 495,496 



nipricrissa... 493-495, 497. 499. 500 



palU-smis 493-495,500 



rutila 496 



theniiopliila ■'■■■■ 499 



Pimepliale^ iiotatus.. 523 



proiiU'l;L>i o__ 



Pionosvllis gigantea 325 



magnifica 325, 325, 326 



Pipa I'f'i 



I'ipilio crvtliroplitlialnms 137, 154 



Piranga crvtliroiiiflas 133, 154 



Pirata, HMI. 162, 163, \GH, 169. 299. ^99. 

 .^<y(>, :i01.316 



apili« 16.5, SO? 



as|)iran8 16.5. »)1. :i03 



bilobata 165, 3(J1_, 315 



elegans 16,5, 307 



oxigua.- 165, 303 



f.4)riculosa 165.301.311 



luimicolus 16.5. :i()l. »)5, 3o6 



in^iilaris 16.5, 301, 309, 31 1 



liljiT 165,311 



inarxi 165, 301, 307, 309 



iiiiiiuta 165,305 



ininutiw.. .16.5, 301, 303^ 



iin>iitaiioi<les 165 



inontanus 165, 301, 306. 307 



tiigniinaculatus 165, 3(i7 



piratic-a 166, 309. MA 



p. utahciisis 301, 313 



pHM-iirsiis 19U 



pr.Kligi<.sa...„ .166, 301, 31.3. 315 



Mclciitariim 165,313^ 



wacoiidaiia 16o 



Pisaim.l:.- 168,300 



Pisiditiiii 31 



japonit'iiin 3.i 



Pi»ta cristata -i-}! 



faj^ciata... •^••' 



PitvophiH 1-1 



PIanorl)i8 112. 113 



Plataiiista -5 



Pljitlic'inissiiHomntM '7'. '*'^. 1x9 



IMatyiK-nisiina.xsi/i • ' • • 



iiic'gal<»|>!< ■' ' ' 



Platv[M'ltiH II.'. 



"ffTDX "5 



Platvplax «'■»•*> 



Platvthyra 'U 



Plcctotropis 11. 153 



l.n-vil»arl>i- 591 



P|i-sti(M|(.ii lis. 119 



IViImhIoi, 126 



PlitlKHlniitiil.i 126 



Plcurococcus 425 



Pleurodelidu' 126 



Pluchea sericea 367 



Pofecetes graininciis 154 



Podarke pugcttcnsis 341 



Poliiiices ^j 555 



aulacoglossa ooS, 559 



didviiia 5.5t>-55S 



d. aiiipla 556, .557 



d. liicdior _ 557 



d. vf.-iicalis _ 557 



papyracea 558 



tasmaiiica _ 556 



P(.llicip«-s 107 



Polycirrussp .3.53 



Polyiioe fragilis 332 



" pulchra » 3:^9 



tuta 331 



PolyiK.ida- 329 



j'orodtTina stellare _ .52 



Porriiiia 293 



Potan.ia • ^99 



Potaiuilla reniforinis._ 359 



Potamotlu'iiiis 461 



Prionace plauca 62 



Pricinotus 620 



Pristodi'lpliinus graiida»vus....24, 25. 2S 



Pristiiirus -53 



ProgiK' siil)is „ 154 



Prugomplms 466, 468, 474 



int«-g(>r 4(i6 



i)l).srurus borealis 488 



pygnKi-as 490 



scrcinis 4(J6 



ProscaliM-Uuin ; 707,107 



Protcida- 127 



I'rotcus 125 



Pn.toiicura 462. 468, 474, 478. 487 



ainatoria 480. 4 S9 



aurautiara 4.S9 



rciiiiss;! 4S0 



Protiila gciiiciilata 361 



Ps4-ud<iiiys 114 



coticinii.'t 114 



Ps<'ud<)l»raii(liU:s 127 



Psciidoticiiiiia m..~.. 122 



piilclira 122 



Pwiidolcnii IC.l. JC.2. 4«VS 



hiijmtImis ISO. 481,1S9 



Psriidopotaiiiillit aiHx-ulata. <i59 



ItrcviliraiK-liinta .^'MJ 



d,-l.ilis 3(j() 



iiit«Tim'<lia -559 



(•(•(•(•l:ita 3lj() 



miiformis 3.59 



{<pl<-n.li<la :i.59 



Psc\idc>s«Tmyl«' tnincata •371 



Ps4'ud«>stigiiia 461, 467, 4«l8 



alwrrans .._ 4.S9 



Pwudotriton marginatum 126 




GGS 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADKMV OK 



[Dec, 



PsoliK-ssa Inuldiana 3.S1-Ii83 



maciilipt-nnis •i>>l -WS 



texana 366, 367, 381, :iS8 



Ptyclioinys 114 



concinna 114 



Punotum ainl)lygona 455 



a. conoiiliniin 455 



Pupilla frvptodoii 455 



PupiUidav 42 



PupiucUa rufa 454 



Purpura 5 



lapilhis 5 



Putorius arizonensis 404 



Innjricauda 404, 40(i 



nijrripe.s 404, 406 



strcatori leptus 404 



Pyraniidula costulata 455 



clatior 455 



Pyrs<>iiuirplun£P 12 



Pyrrlioc'orax columbianus 4^8 



puianensis 4^7 



inosurus 4^8 



pallcscens 500 



Pytliia iPfrialitis 35 



cec'illei 35 



nana 35 



pacliyotlon 35 



scaraba?us 35 



Quercus micliauxi 4.58 



Quiscalus quiscula 154 



Uana 125-441 



bufo 1^0 



ovalis I'-'T 



temporaria 12.) 



Itiinidic 1'2.T 



Realia 39 



Pu'piiia kirtlantlii 120 



Regulus calt-ndiila 156 



Rtinia .561,. 562 



Rena no 



dulcis 119 



Repentia 1 1<"» 



RlmlKlosteu-s 2S. 29 



latiradax 24 30 



Rhadinf-a 123 



inc'lanoccphala 123 



obtiLsa 123 



I{liinfcl.i.s 1^1 



sralam 121 



Rhinfura 119 



Rliinirhthv« .">29 



atr<mjLsu.H..../ 526 



.547 



catanirt »'...„.... 

 Rliiiiocliilus 



Icccintci 



RlKMlii|>yi;ia 



I{i(>pa puiK'tatii . . 

 Rip.-iria riparia 

 Rotnal<-a riuptialis 

 Ruiiicx b.'iHialiilu.H 



His, 



.54 s 



'yl'.) 



1J3 

 123 

 171 

 lis 

 1.51 

 Id 

 t.5s 



Rync'liospora oligautlia 458 



rari flora 458 



Sabella elcgans 359 



forinosa 3.58 



Sabi'Uaria californica 358 



fonicntariuni 358 



Salidiida- 358 



Sacoolcpis g\hbii 4.58 



Salamandra attenuata 127 



gigaiitca 127 



glutiuosa 126 



longicauda 126 



porpliyriticus 12(> 



(luadriiligitata 12() 



sfutata 126 



Salentia 112,124,12.5 



Salvadora 122 



gralianiia^ 122 



Saniytlia l>ioculata 350 



Saparus 17 



Sauromalus 117 



ater 117 



Sayornis phoebe 133, 1.53 



Scalibrogina inflatuni 3.56 



Scalil)n'gnuda^ 3.56 



Scalpelluni 104-111 



angustum 109 



aurivillii 110 



beUum Ill 



californicuin 109 



cal vara turn 109 



carinatum HO 



cliilicnse Ill 



cormitum 109 



(licrratum 105 



(iicli.-loplax 110 



i'd\vard.si 110 



forinosum Ill 



gil)l)t'rum 109 



gil)bum 109 



gracile /// 



gra'ulandicuni 109 



gruvi'li 1 10 



liamatum 109 



idinplax no 



iinpcrrcctum 1 10 



iucrnu' 109 



iiitorincdium 1 10 



japf)iiicum 110 



javaiiicuui 1 10 



laccadivicum 1 10 



larvalc 110 



margiii.'ituin 1 10 



iiippouciisc 1 10 



iiyiupliDC'ola 109 



ornatuu) 109 



..ssiMiiii 109 



patagonicuni 109 



piToiiii ... 1(17 



pli!mta,sMia 1 10 



prrssuii) l(i'.( 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADKLPHIA. 



669 



St'alpclluni rostratuni 107, 108 



salartiap 109 



sancta'barbarse 110 



sealpelluni 105,108 



stearnsi 105,107 



stroemii 104,109 



s. adunouin 109 



s. latirostruni 109 



s. luriduni _ 109 



s. olx'suni '.. 109 



s. septentrionale 109 



s. suDstroeniii 109 



uncus 107 



velutinuni _ 109 



\illosuin 106 



Soapanoa 461 



frontalis 466 



Scaptofosa 163 



Scapliiopus 126 



bomlnfrons _„ 126 



haniniondi 1S6 



solitarius 126 



Sceloporus torquatus 117 



SchistocfTca 20 



grati.ssima.-„ 20 



lineata SO 



palk'iis _ 20 



vapa 366,393 



Vfiiusta 393 



S<-lii/.(tc<).sa 162. 16.3, 170.210 



biliii.ata 165, 212, 218, 2W 



(liiininoides 165 



Knii-ilis 166 



hiiiiiilis 165 



nrn-iiin 165, 212, ilo 



<). pulclira...„ 165 



reluc'fus 165 



nifa 165 



wdtatrix 165,212,215 



stonci 165 



vcnu.stula 166,217 



verisimilis 166 



S<'liiz<Kh'l|)lii8 canaliculatus.-. 29 



sulcatUH 29 



S<ill:ilrpaj< 107 



S<-iii(iil!i' 118 



Sfiiicii.s pnvimcntatus _ 118 



puii('l:itu» „ 118 



rufocciis 118 



ti'lfairi „.._ 118 



Si'irpiw torreyi.- 458 



SriunwalHTti oonoolor 404 



fn'iin»nti 404 



ludoviciaiiiis , 406 



Sc"«>lr«-opliiH 123 



S'oli'Mlnii laticaiidiLx 66 



trrra--iio\ ir (iti 



S<*ot(>pliiM 12 1 



ScotUHJUl 22 



liriu^ilifiiMH ^-2 



Scuddf ria furcifpra . . 39.S 



43 



Scyliorliinidae 52 



Scyliorhinus 53 



marinoratum. 53 



Scyllina calida 366, 381 



Sciurus aurocapillus 155 



noveborac-ensis 155 



Seminatrix 120 



pygitus 120 



Semotilus 529 



atroraaculatus. 525,535 



bullaris 524 



ijenecio crawfordii 459 



Seps murinus 118 



Serpentes 112, 119 



Serpcntia 116, 119 



Serpula colunibiana 361, 362 



SerpulidiP 361 



Setopliapa ruticilla 156 



Siaponodon 119 



Sialia sialis 156 



Sibon 123 



Sigaleonidip 338 



Sinica 38, 589, 590 



t^iplionostoma villosum 357 



Sistrurus 124 



.Siren 127 



laccrtina 127 



.striatus 127 



Sirenida- 127 



iSitala 598 



rtinhardti 598 



ultima 598 



Sitaris 620 



hilaris 620 



Smili.sca <iaulinia 125 



Sniiliuin 106, 107, /07 



aculuiii 107 



ari<-s 107 



l(>iipn»struni _ 107 



jMTonii 107 



p()llifi|x»«loidps 107 



Scorpio 107 



wxcomutum 107 



uncus 107 



.'vjla.stcs dcccniradiata 330 



Sorcx obscunis 404, 407 



IxTsonatUH ..404,406 



p. Iiaydcni 407 



vaKran8 dobsoni 407 



Sosilaiw 162, 163, 169, 29S. ?d.? 



spiniKcr If).'). 29K 



S<>nippu«, 160, 162, 163, 168, ir>9. 202, 



29€ 293 



floridatiu^ Hl'i, 29;? 



!<ppa 12r» 



S|H-I<'r|X'.H V2(\ 



lu<-irupa V2(\ 



.Sj)lui'nMlactylu>- lit; 



xputator lli» 



SpliarpJH 113 



Sph yra picas van ux 153 




670 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Sphyma blocliii 66 



tiburo 66 



tudes 66 



zygaena 66 



Sphymidae 66 



Spilogale tenuis 404, 406 



Spilott's 121 



pullatus 121 



SpirojX)ma 586 



japonicuni 32, 454, 586 



j. chejuense 454 



j. tsushimaiium 586 



nakadai 32 



yakushimaiium SZ 



Spirorbis granulata var. tridentata 362 



quadrangiilaris 362 



.spirillum 362, 364 



tridentata 362 



Spizella pusilla 154 



socialis 154 



Sporobolus longifolius 458 



Squalida? 68 



Squalius hyalope 5S4 



pliotogenis 344, 555 



Squalus acanthias 68 



africanum 53 



blain\-ille 68 



canicula 53 



rarcliarias 63 



cirratus 54 



galeus 53 



japonicas 71 



punctatus 54 



uyato 53,69 



viilpes 63 



Squamata 116 



Squatina squatina 70 



Squatii)ida> 70 



.Stauronercidii' 347 



Stauronfreis annulatus 347 



Steirodon thoracicus 399 



Stelgidopteryx serrepennis 154 



Stenrxlclphis 25,29 



Stenodera , SSO 



Stenoria 6B0 



Stereorhihis 126 



Stcrooplia'dusa 565, 567, 568 



Stcreozaptyx 578,580 



StemaApida* _ 357 



affiniH „ 358 



fossor 358 



scutata 357 



StemotlifK>ru«....x 114 



fxJoratiLs 114 



p<'miHylvaniru 114 



Sticliopu.s californira 330 



Stilpnocliioni 398,399 



Stiirwonia 122 



cxtcnuatuni 122 



Slorcria I'Jl 



Strobilops diodontina 455 



hirasei 455 



Sturnella magna 154 



Succinea avara 46 



campestris 46, 48 



greeri 48 



obliqua 46-51 



ovalis 45-51 



o. chittenangensis 48, 49 



o. optima .48, 49 



putris 46 



retusa 46, 50 



totteniana 46, 48, 50, 51 



SurircUa 503 



Stypocncmis ISO 



rufopunctatus IW 



Svbaris 620 



flaveola 620 



immunis 620 



picta 620 



Sycotj-pus 3-9 



canaliculatus 3 



SyUids 323 



Syllis 325 



borealis 3SS 



altemata 323 



armillaris.. 323,3:25 



quatemaria 3S5 



(Clurtosyllis) quatemaria 325 



Sylvilagus piiietis 404, 405 



Sjanpetrum 462, 467, 468 



corruptum 462, 472. 4S1. 489 



illotum virgulum 460, 481, 487 



Syrbula fusco-vittata 366, 375 



modesta 368, 375 



SyrropiuLs 125 



maniockii 125 



Taeniophis vermiculaticeps 123 



Tantilla 124 



coronata 124 



Tarentula, £21, 246, 249, 263, 268, 279 



baltimoriaiia B4^ 



inhonesta £38 



lepida £53 



modesta 261,270 



nidifex 240 



pudens 261 



pulchra 267 



soalaris 263 



tigrina 238 



Tauriphila 468 



argo 489 



aztora 489 



Taxidea taxus 404 



TeiidiE 118 



Telagrion 461 



Teleba-sis 462, 46S, 174 



digiticollis 481, 4.S7. \S\) 



salva 481,487,490 



Tclmatodytcspalustris 156 




1908.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



671 



Terrapene 155 



clausa 115 



Terebella fasciata 351 



Terebellida> 350 



Terebellides stroemii 322, a')2, 353 



Testudinuta 113 



Testudines 113 



Testudinida? 114 



Testudo U3. 115 



Ijerlandieri 115 



caret ta 115 



Carolina „ 115 



concentrica _ 114 



coriacea 113 



gra'ca 115 



guttata IH 



mydas 1 15 



polyphoniiLs 115 



scorpioidcs 114 



serpentina 113 



terrapin 114 



Tettigr.nida; 39.S 



Tliala.'wochelys 115 



Tliamnopliis 120 



Tliauiiiatoneura 461, 462, 467, 468 



Tliecopliora 113 



Tlu'lf pus Immatus 352 



TlKjIyinis 462 



citrina 489 



Thonioiiiys cluaius fuscus. 404, 405 



fossor. — 404,405 



Tliore 461 



Tliyrosteniuni 114 



Tilji|iia fa.sciata 117 



Tiiu-sid«Ta <>20 



Tufu-ldia racenioea 459 



Tuluca 122 



lincata 122 



ToiiiikIoii na.sutU9 123 



Tonujuotus aztocus 367, 3S6, 387 



femipiiosus 386 



Tortrix l)ottu« 119 



Tox()stoiiia rufum 133. 137, 156 



Trulx-a 162, 163, 169. 295, £.9n 



uuniritiara 16.5, 296, 29K 



Tradiciiiys 114 



Hcal)ra 1 1 • 



TradiypteruaishikawiP 'M9 



wieniris 319 



Tramea I'>2 



alMioininaliH I9<l 



copliysa I *^ 1 



insularis. In9 



loii((irauda 4S.S, tS<.» 



oiiUHta „ _ 481,4,S!» 



TraviHia forlxwi _- 354 



pjipa ■i55 



TrepiduliiH nielleolua.. 367. .3S7 



rowiceuH 866, 367, ?S7 



Tn-t«mpliyH KrandtPViw 28 



cyaiiPipeums. 

 fascicula 



Triakis felis 59 



semifasciatiis 59 



Tribulus 601 



zegheri, 603, 604, 606, 609, 610, 

 612-615.617,618 



Tricca 284, 284, 285 



Trichochloritis 42 



Triglocliin inaritinia 459 



Trimerotropis alliciens 390 



citrina 390 



391 



389 



mconspicua 390 



modesta 390 



strenua 390 



vinculata .• 368, 390 



Triniorphodon 123 



lyrophanes 123 



Trionychidae 115 



Trionyx ivgypticus 115 



hroiigiiiartii 115 



euphraticus 115 



Trishoplita cretacea 593 



c. hypozona 5W 



dacosta' awajiensis 455 



liilpendorti 34 



Triton cnsatus 127 



Triturus fiiscus 126 



viridescens 126 



Trocliilus coluhris 153 



Trochosa 162, 163, ££1, 222, £84, 289 



avara £81 



cinerea £8£, ?8S 



contestata 513 



frondicola ^61 



l.clvipcs 229 



noctuabunda 289 



parva 290 



pratensi.s 263 



purcelli «e7,514 



ruliicunda 279 



srniilclirali.s 270 



sunlatu £88 



Trogl«Kiytc.s aCdon 156 



Troplioiiia papillata .^56 



Tropidoclniiiiiin 120 



Tropidonotus 120 



d.kayi 121 



sjiuritus 120 



scal>ri{M's..._ 12<l 



toniuata _ 120 



Trnpiiiotiis 12 



adiiiis 12 



Trypaiiosyllis genimipara 328, 328 



tnisakicMsiH 328 



nigcns 328 



Typlil<>i>s nigricans 119 



S4'ptcin.striatuj< 1 19 



Tyjxwyllis arniillaris.-- 3SS 



TvnmnUH tvranniw 15.S 



rtvn VM 




672 



PROCKEDIXGS OF TIIK ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Uma 117 



notata 117 



Uracis fastigiata 490 



imbuta 487, 489, 490 



Urodela 126 



Urosalpinx 5 



Ursus aniericanus 404 



Uta 117 



stansburiana 117 



Vallonia patens 37 



tenera 455 



Venatores 169 



Venus 6, 7, 9 



raercenaria 6 



Verticaria 118 



Vertigo japonica 455 



Viburnum alnifolium 4^0 



lantanoides 450 



Vipera 121 



ferus 122 



Viperid.T 122, 124 



Vireo flaxifrons 155 



gilvus 155 



novaboracensis 155 



olivaceus 154 



solitarius 155 



Virginia 123 



inomata 121 



valeriae 123 



Vulpes macrourus 404 



Wenona 1 19 



plunibea 119 



Wilsonia canadensis 156 



Xantusia 118 



gilberti 118 



henshawi 118 



vigilis 118 



XantusiidsR 118 



Xerobates 115 



Xipliiola 17 



Xiphiolae 17 



Yersinia solitaria 369 



sophronica 366, 369 



Zablepsis 118 



Zamelodia ludoxiciana 154 



Zamenis ; 121 



Zapt>-x 576, 579, 580, 583 



Zapus princeps 404 



Zenaidura macroura 153 



Zonahris dicincta v. occidentalis.. 609 



Zoniopoda 16 



tarsata 16 



Zonitides 620 



Zonitis 620, 621, 623 



angolensis 622 



annulicomis 622 



antennalis 621 



ciconia 622 



posoka 622 



prionocera 622 



scapularis 623 




1908.] 



NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADKLPHIA. 



673 



C.EXERAL INDFA'. 

 • 1908. 



Additions to the Museum, 644. 

 IJioIopcal and Microscopical Section, 



report of, (J36. 

 Bladen, Elizalieth S., annoimoement of 



death of, 4.5G. 

 liotanical Section, report of, 63^?. 

 Jioyer, Charles S. Synonymy and 

 relationship of Surirella (no abstract), 

 .503. On a new species of diatoni of 

 tlie genus Cvmatf)pleura (Plate 

 XXVIII), 516, .554. Report of 

 liioloRical and Microscopical Sec- 

 tion, ♦'(36. 

 Hrooks, William K., announcement of 



deatli of. 503. 

 Browii, .\rthur E., Sc.D. CJeneric t^-pcs 

 of Nearctic Reptilia' ar.d Ampiiibia, 

 44, 112. 

 Brown, Stcwardson. Hep<jrl of Bo- 

 tanical S-ction, 63S. 

 Brasilia, Spiridione, atmouiieiincnt of 



deatli of, 457. 

 Bullock, li<'njaniin. aiuiouncement of 



death of, 456. 

 Calvert, Bliili|) P., Ph.D. General 

 results of nine years' stuily of the 

 dragon-flies of .Mexico and Central 

 America (no al)stract), 11. The 

 compo-sition and ecological relations 

 of the ()donat<- Fauna of .Mexico and 

 Central America fPiah- XXVI), 456, 

 4<iO. 

 Catk'll, Henry W ., .Ml ». On Trypano- 

 somiasis (no abstract), 44. 

 CiiamlK'rlin, Ralph V. .\nimal names 

 and anatomical terms of the (ioshufo 

 Indians, 44, 74. Revision of North 

 .\merican spiders of tin- familv 

 Lvcosidic (Plates VIII-XXIII), 

 15S. 

 Clarke, John Miuson, awanl of Hayden 



medal to, .502. 

 Colton, llaroM S-llrrs. Cliarh's Wilson 

 Pealf arul (he Phihidrlphia Museum 

 ^no abstract), 41. How I'ulgur and 

 Sycotyj)Us eat oysters, miwscls and 

 cJauM (^Plnt<'s I V), 3. Sune t'(T«'cts 



of environment on the growth of 

 Lymnea columella Saj-, 410, 456. 

 Conklin, Edwin G., Ph.D. On some 

 phenomena and causes of heredity 

 (no abstract), 30. 

 Corresponding .Secretary, report of, 627. 

 Council for 1909, 642. 



Curators, report of, 621. 



Dixon. Samuel G., M.D., and Henry A. 

 Pilsbrv, Sc.D. Report of Curators, 

 631. 



Elections during 190S, 643. 



Entomological Section, report of. 637. 



Fowler, Henry W. Notes on sharks, 

 44, .52. Synopsis of the Cvprinid;p 

 of Pennsvlvania (Plate .\XVII), 

 516 517. ' 



Freedly, William G., announcement 

 of death of, 456. 



General Index, 673. 



Harshherger. .John W.. Pii.D. On 

 the geographical slutly of bud 

 opening in connt-ction witli isother- 

 mal lines (no al)stract). 1.57. Tlie 

 directive inlhu-nce of liglit on the 

 growth of forest plants (Plates XXIV, 

 XXV), 449. 4.56. 



Havden Memorial .\ward. 1, 157, 502. 



Holt, Jacob I"., .•umounct'ment of 

 death of. 4.5(). 



Inde.x to Genera. 651. 



Ishikawa. Chiyom.atsii. Ph.D. Df- 

 scription of .'i new species of Squaloid 

 Shark. 44. 71 



Keeley. Frank J. t >n .secondary crys- 

 tallization of early limestone and 

 demonstration <if Brownian move- 

 ment (no al)straeC), .503. 



Lyman. Benjamin .•-imith. Rejxtrt of 

 .MiiH-ralogical and (ieological Sec- 

 tion, »»|0. 



Maver. (lastav, announcement of death 

 of. 457. 



Mwllicott. Henry B., announcoment of 

 death of. 157. 



Mineralogical and Geological .Section, 

 report of. 6;<9. 




674 



PROCKEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 1908. 



Montpoinpry. Thomas H. Remarks 

 *»u Prof. Cliamherlin's Revision of 

 North Ameriean Lveosidie, 503, 513. 



M«Mire. J. Percy. Ph.D. Some Poly- 

 cha'tous Annehds of the northern 

 Pacific Coast of Xortli .America. 321, 

 456. Report of Corresponding Sec- 

 retary, 627. 



Nolan, Txiward J., M.D. Report of 

 Recording Secretary, 025. Report 

 of Lil)rarian, 628. 



Officers, Councillors and Connnittee on 

 Accounts. 1009. 642. 



Ornithological Section, report of, 640. 



I'ilshry, Henry A. Notes on Succinea 

 ovalis Sav and S. obliqua Sav 

 (Plate VII), 44. 45. On the classi- 

 fication of Scalpelliform liamacles, 

 44, 104. A comparison of tlie land- 

 snail fauna of Korea witli the faunas 

 of Japan and Cliina, 452, 456. Geo- 

 graphical distribution of Stroliilops 

 (no abstract), 503. Clausiliida* of 

 the Japanese Empire, XII (Plates 

 XXX, XXXI, XXXII), 516, 561. 

 Report of the Department of Mol- 

 luscs, 636. 



Pilsbrv, H. A., and C. Montague Cooke. 

 On tiie teetli of Hawaiian species of 

 Helicina, 516, 560. 



Pilsbry, Henry A., and Y. Hirase. 

 New land and fresh-water Mollusca 

 of the Japanese Empire, 30, 31. 

 New land shells from the Japanese 

 Empire, I, 30, 37. Xew land Mol- 

 lusca of the Japanese Empire, 516, 

 586. 



Pilsbry, H. A., and E. G. Vanatta. 

 Notes on Polinices didyma. witli 

 description of a new Austrahan 

 species (Plate XXIX), 516, 555. 



Potts, William, announcement of deatl) 

 of, .503. 



Recording Secretary, report of, 625. 



Ree.M', Jacob, announcement of death 

 of, 2. 



Rehn, James .\. G. .\cridida; (Orth- 

 optera) from Sao Paulo, lirazil, with 

 descriptions of one new genus and 

 three new species, 11. 12. 



Rehn, .Tames ,\.G., and Morgan Hebard. 

 -An Orthopterological reconnoissance 

 of the southwestern ['nited States. 

 Part I. Arizona, .365, J.^. 



lieport of l^iological :iiid .Microscopic.Ml 

 S<'ctiori, 6.36. 



I{efK>rt of Botanical Section, 6.30. 



J^ejKirt of Corn-sjxmding S-cretarv, 

 627. 



Report of Curators. 621. 



Report of Entomological Section, 637. 



Report of Mineralogical and Geological 

 Section, 639. 



Report of Ornithological Section, 640. 



Report of the Recording Secretary, 625. 



Reports of the Sections, 636. 



Ridings, James H., announcement of 

 death of, 44. 



Rosengarten, Samuel G., announce- 

 ment of deatli of, 4.56. 



Skinner, Henry, M.D. Report of 

 Entomological Section, 637. 



Snyder, John Otterbein. Description 

 of Trachypterus seleniris, a new 

 species of ribbon-fish from Mon- 

 terey Bay, California, 319, 4-56. 



Sorby, Henry Clifton, announcement 

 of death of, 44. 



Standinc Committees, 1908, 1. 



Stewart", Tliomas A., M.D. On the 

 bacillus of S\'philis (no abstract), 

 503. 



Stone, Witmer. Geographical distri- 

 bution of plants and animals in 

 soutliern Xew Jersey (no abstract), 

 11. Methods of recording and util- 

 izing bird-migration data, 128. A 

 review of tlie genus Piava Lesson, 

 457, 492. Recent additions to our 

 knowledge of the flora of southern 

 X'ew Jersey, 457. Report of Orni- 

 thological Section, 640. 



Trotter, Spencer, M.D. On the anat- 

 omy of the apes (no abstract), 1.57. 



True, Frederick W . Remarks on the 

 fossil cetacean Rliabdosteus latira- 

 dix Cope (Plate VI). 11, 24. 



A'aux, William S., Jr., announcement of 

 deatli of. and minute, 456. 



Walcott, Ciiarles D., presentation of 

 Hayden Medal to, 1. 



Welliiian, V. Creighton. M.D. On the 

 Meloidie of Angola, 516. 600. On 

 the natural history of West Africa 

 (no abstract), 516. 



Wellman, F. Creighton, M.D., and 

 Walther Horn. On the Cicindelina- 

 of Angola, .503, 504. 



Whelen, .Alfred, announcement of death 

 of. .503. 



Wood, Ca.sey .A., M.D. Eyes and eye- 

 sight of birds (no abstract), 2. 



A'oung, Robert T. Xotes on the dis- 

 tribution of Colorado Mauunals, 

 witli descri|)tion of a new species 

 of l)!it (I'"-ptcsicus ])allidus) from 

 Boulder, 403. 4.56. 






PROC. ACAD. NAT SCI. PHILA. 1908. 



PLATE I. 



COLTON. HOW FULGUR AND SYCOTYPUS fclAT OYSTERS. ETC 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1908. 



PLATE II. 



COLTON. HOW FULGUR AND SYCOTYPUS EAT OYSTERS ETC. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 190S. 



PLATE III. 



^^ ■:^:^i^m^^:^'^-^^ 



^^ 





LULIUN. HOW FULGUH AND SYCOTYPUS EAl OYSTERS. ETC. 





PROC ACAD. NAT SCI. PHILA. 190S. 



PLATE IV. 



COL'ION. HOW FULGUR AND SYCOTYPUS KAT OYSTERS. ETC. 





PROC. ACAD NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1908. 



PLATE V. 



fuLGuR PERVERSA 



Fui-GUR CARlCA 



3amo Ocacm ROCMfl 



WArrn 4 ■» Dl(^ 

 Oysrcn» 



Water 3f t Oup 



COL'ION HOW KULGUH AND SYCOTYHUS EAT OYSTEHS. ETC 






PROC ACAD. MAT SCI PHILA. 1908. 



TRUE ON RHABDOS 




PLATE VI 



I 



I 



- '■* - 



LAI 1 KADI X UnpE. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1908. 



PLATE VII. 



PJjH.^^c 



PILSBRY ON SUCCINEA OVALIS 





PROC. ACAD NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1908. 



PLATE VIII 



6 



f 





i> >i 



A 



6 



y 9 



CHAMUL^HLIN on LYCOSIDyG 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1908. 



PLATE IX. 



4 



% 



4 



' V 



^ 



i 



A 





6 I"'''? 



8 



4 



s- 



h ' 



\ 





CHAMBERLIN on LYCOSID/E 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1908. 



PLATE X. 



\ 





8 



CHAMBKRLIN on LYCOSID/G. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1908. 



PLATE XI. 



/ 



r 





f 



\V^ 



\ 



\ 



s^ 







' - 7 



\ 



9 



CHAMBERLIN on LYCOSIDiC. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1908. 



PLATE Xi: 



n o ^ I 



_^ v_^ 



f 



1 ■• t 



w 



2 



<^- 



^ 



o 



CHAMBERLIN on LYCOSID^. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT SCI. PHILA 19 OS. 



PLATE Xni 



CHAMBERLIN ON LYCOSIDyG. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1908. 



PLATE XIV. 



f 1 



6 



CHAMBERLIN on LYCOSID/E. 





PROC. ACAD. XAT. SCI. PHILA. 1908. 



PLATE XV. 



CHAMBERLIN . .N LYCOSID/e. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1908. 



PLATE XVI. 



CHAMBERLIN ON LYCOSID^. 





PROC. ACAD NAT. SCI. PHI LA. lOoS. 



PLATE XVII 



CHAMBKHLIN on LYCOSID/t:. 





Pt^OC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1908. 



PLATE XVIIl. 



V 



jK-- 



2 



/ 



9 



i 



WTy 



CHAMBERLIN on LYCOSID/G. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT SCI. PHILA. 1908. 



PLATE XIX, 



8 



% 



CHAMBERLIN ON LYCOSID^C. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. I90g. 



PLATE XX. 



CHAMBERLIN ON LYCOSlDyG. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT SCI. PHILA. 1908. 



PLATE XXI. 



CHAMUi:.HLlN jN LY(JUblU--L; 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1908. 



PLATE XXII. 



<r^ 



/ i 



A 



i 



u 



6 



y 



8 



o 



CHAMBERLIN on LYCOSID/t;. 



8 





PRoC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA 1908. 



PLATE XXIII. 



A 



CHAMBliHI.IN .N ivinsiD-f^ 







PROC. ACAD. NAT SCI. PHILA. 1908 



PLATE XXV. 



HABSHBliHGliH ON INKLUKNCE OF LIGHT 





■. yi^aJ ITntSti J'AHa /SOS 



P.P.Calrere doled pinr. 




z 

 o 



H 



O 

 T] 



?: 



PI 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA 1908 



PLATE X.XVIII 



v.^ 1 . • 1 . % 1 ' ' : I . I-.. I M \ .• \ .-- ri 1 1^ , . I •, I H' • 1 I l< . 





PfiOC ACAC). NaT SCI PHILa. lOOQ. 



PLATE XXIX 



PILSBRY AND VANATTA: ON POLINICIiS PIDYMA ETC 





PROC ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1908. 



PLATE XXX. 



% 



k 



w 



12 



PILSPHY CLAUSILIIDye OF THE JAPANESE EMPIRE. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. i908. 



PLATE XXXI. 



PILSBRY: CLAUSILlIDyE OF THli JAPANKSfc: EMPIRE. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT SCI. PHILA 1908. 



PLATE XXXII. 



PILSBRY: CLAUSIL1ID/1-: OK 'IHU: JAPANESLI liMPIRE. 







QH 



1 



A2 



V.60 



Biolofical 

 & Mtdtcfti 



Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia 

 Proceedings 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 

 CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



STORAGE 





