



/> 



VI 



PROCEEDINGS 



0-^ 



THE ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1900. 



Cn 



COMIVIITTEE ON PUBLICATION: 

 Thomas Meehan, Henry Skinner, M.D., 



Edward J. Nolan, M.D., Henry A. Pilsbey, Sc.D 



Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D. 



Editob: EDWARD J. NOLAN, M.D. 



PHILADELPHIA : 

 THE ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



LOGAN SQUARE. 

 1901. 




I 



y. 



^^. 



The Acadejiy of Natikal Sciences of Philadelphia, 



February 13, 1901. 

 I hereb}' certify that printed copies of the Proceedings for 1900 have 

 been presented to the meetings of the Academy and mailed as follows : — 




-f 



LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS. 



With reference to the several articles contributed by each. 



For Verbal Communications, AnnouQcements, etc., see General Index. 



Banks, Nathan. Some Arachnida from Alabama, . . . 529 



BoYEE, Charles S., A.M. The Biddulphoid Forms of 



North American Diatomacere, 685 



Chapman, Henry C, M.D. Observations upon the Anat- 

 omy of Hylobates leuciscus and Chiromys madagas- 

 cariensis, 414 



CocKERELL, T. D. A. Descriptions of New Bees collected 



by Mr. H. H. Smith in Brazil, I, .356 



CocKERELL, T. D. A., and Wilmatte Porter. A New 



Crayfish from New Mexico, 434 



Dall, William Healey. Additions to the Insular Land- 

 Shell Faunas of the Pacific Coast, especially of the • 

 Galapagos and Cocos Islands (Plate VIII), . . 88 



Fowler, Henry W. Note on Ameiurus prosthistius, . . .352 

 Contributions to the Ichthyology of the Tropical Pacific 



(Plates XVIII, XIX, XX), 493 



Harshberger, John W. , Ph. D. An Ecological Study of 



the New Jersey Strand Flora, 623 



Keller, Ida A. Notes on Hyacinth Roots (Plate Xfll), 438 



Kellogg, Vernon L., and Shinkai I. Kuwana. Mal- 



lophaga from Alaskan Birds (Plate VII), . . . 151 



MacElwee, Alexander. The Flora of the Edgehill 



Ridge near Willow Grove and its Ecology, . . . 482 



Meehan, Thomas. Contributions to the Life-History of 



Plants, No. XIV, 341 



i 




11 



MooEE, J. Percy. A Description of Microbe! ell a biauuu- 

 lata with Especial Regard to the Constitution of 



the Leech Somite (Plate VI), 50 



Post-Larval Changes in the Vertebral Articulations of 



Spelerpes and Other Salamanders, 613 



Palmer, Thomas Chalkley-, and F. J. Keeley. The 

 Structui'e of the Diatom Girdle (Plates XV and 



XVI), 465 



PiLSBRY, Henry A. Note on the Anatomy of the Helicoid 



Genus Ashmunella, 107 



Mollusca of the Great Smoky Mountains, . . . . 110 



Notice of New Japanese Land Snails, 381 



New South American Land Snails (Plates XI, XII), . 385 



Note on the Australian Pupidip, 426 



Note on Polynesian and East Indian Pupidse, . . . 431 

 Additions to the Japanese Land-Snail Fauna, II (Plate 



XIV), 443 



Notes on Certain Mollusca of Southwestern Arkansas, 449 

 Lower Californian Species of Coelocentrum and Berendtia, 550 

 Sonorella, a New Genus of Helices (Plate XXI), . . 556 

 On the Zoological Position of Parlula and Achatinella 



(Plate XVII), 561 



The Genesis of Mid-Pacific Faunas, 568 



Additions to the Japanese Land-Snail Fauna, III (Plates 



XXIV, XXV), 672 



PiLSBRY, Henry A., and Edward G. Vanatta. A Par- 

 tial Revision of the Pupse of the United States 



(Plates XXII, XXIII) 582 



Rand, Theodore D. Notes on the Geology of Southeast- 

 ern Pennsylvania, 160 



Rehn, James A G. Notes on Chiroptera, 755 



Rhoads, Samuel N. A New Weasel from Western Penn- 

 sylvania, "»1 



Sargent, Annie Bell. Preliminary Notes on the Rate 

 of Growth and on the Development of Instincts in 



Spiders (Plates IX. X), 395 



Saunders, C. F. The Pine Barrens of New Jersey, . . 544 

 Simpson, Charles T. New and Unfigured Uuionidie 



(Plates I-V), 74 




in 



Stone, AVitmer. Report on the Birds and Mammals Col- 

 lected by the Mcllhenny Expedition to Pt. Barrow, 



Alaska,' 4 



Description of a New Rabbit from the Liu Kiu Islands 



and a New Flying Squire! from Borneo, . . . 460 



Vaughan, T. Wayland. Trochocyathus Woolraani, a 

 New Coral from the Cretaceous Formation of New 

 Jersey, 436 



Von Iheking, H. The Musculus cruciformis of the Order 



Tellinacea, 480 





PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1900. 



January 2. 



Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Nineteen persons present. 



The Council reported that the following Standing Committees 

 had been appointed to serve during the ensuing year : 



On Library. — Dr. C. N. Peirce, Arthur Erwin Brown, Henry C. 

 Chapman, M.D. , Thomas A. Robinson, and Chas. Schaeffer, M.D. 



On Publications. — Thomas Meehan, Charles E. Smith, Henry 

 Skinner, M.D., Henry A. Pilsbry, and Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



On Instruction. — Uselma C. Smith, Benjamin Smith Lyman, 

 Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., Henry A. Pilsbry, and Charles Morris. 



On Finance. — Isaac J. Wistar, Wm. Sellers, Charles Roberts, 

 John Cadwalader, and George Vaux, Jr. 



Committee of Council on By-Laws. — Isaac J. Wistar, 

 Theodore D. Rand, Arthur Erwin Brown, and Benj. Sharp, M.D. 




2 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



The deaths of the following were announced : 



Edward H. Williams, Thomas Mackellar and Charles P. 

 Krauth, members; Elliott Coues and Heury Hicks, correspou- 

 dents. 



Mr. C. F. Sauxders made a communication on a botanical excur- 

 sion to the Pine Barrens of New Jersey. The paper was pre- 

 sented for publication under the title " Through the Jersey Pinas 

 with Plant-press and Kodak." 



January 9. 



INIr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Twenty-eight persons present. 



Dr. Thomas H. Montgomery made a communication on recent 

 studies of the Gordiaceie (no abstract). 



January 16. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, ]M.D., in the Chair. 

 Twelve persons present. 



A paper entitled "A Description of Microbdella biaunulata, with 

 Special Regard to the C(mstitution of the Leech Somite," by J. 

 Percy Moore, was presented for publication. 



The death of Carl Frederick Rammelsberg, a correspondent, 

 was announced. 



January 23. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 



Nineteen persons present. 



A paper entitled " INIallophaga from Alaskan Birds," by Ver- 

 non L. Kellogg and Shinkai I. Kuwana, was presented for publi- 

 cation. 




1900.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 3 



January oO. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 



Fifteen persons present. 



The following were elected members : 



Col. William E. Barrows, S. Mendelsou Meehan, Catharine G. 

 Dixon, William R. Reineck, and Florence Bascom. 



The following were ordered to be published: 




TROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1000. 



REPORT ON THE BIRDS AND MAMMALS COLLECTED BY THE 

 McILHENNY EXPEDITION TO PT. BARROW, ALASKA. 



BY WITMER STONE. 



Through the courtesy of Mr. E. A. Mcllhenny, I have beoii 

 entrusted with the preparation of a repoi't on the splendid collec- 

 tion of birds and mammals obtained by him during his sojourn at 

 Point Barrow, August, 1897, to August, 1898. 



It was originally intended to defer the publication of this paper 

 until the issue of a general report of the expedition which Mr. 

 Mcllhenny has in view, but for many reasons we deemed it best to- 

 present it at once. 



It will be understood that the following pages consist entirely of 

 a study of the skins, and that Mr. Mcllhenny' s field notes are 

 reserved for the subsequent report. 



The material obtained is the finest yet brought from the Arctic 

 regions, and the series are so full that the molts and variations of 

 plumage in many of the birds, that have not i)reviou5ly been 

 understood, are beautifully illustrated. 



For convenience of reference, it should be stated that the expe- 

 dition was in the North Pacific, July 5-22, 1897; at King's Island, 

 July 23; Port Clarence, July 24-28; Point Hope, July 31- 

 August 1; Cape Lisbux-ne, August 1; Waiuwright Island, August 

 3, and Pt. Barrow, August 10, 1897, to August 17, 1898. 



BIRDS. 



The collection of birds comprises 1,408 specimens, representing 

 sixty-nine species. Of these nine were obtained on the northward 

 trip at points south of Pt. Barrow, leaving sixty as the number 

 actually secured at that locality. 



Six species observed by Lieut. Murdoch^ were not obtained, 

 though they may have been seen, i. e., Olor columbianus, Xume- 

 nius borealis, Trlnga subarquata, Jiinco hyemalis, Clivicola ripariu 

 and Saxicola cenanthe. 



On the other hand, thirteen species were obtained which are not 



'Cf. Report of the Internat. Polar Exp. to Pt. Burroir, Alaska, AVash- 

 ington, 1885. 




,1900.] XATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 5 



recorded iu Murdoch's list, i. e., Asia aecipitrinus Mcllhennyi, Con- 

 topus richardsonii, Calcarhis pidus, Ammodramws sandwichensis 

 alaiidinits, Dendroica coronata, Budyte-i flavus leucostnatus, 

 Hijlocichla alicice, Rissa tridactyla pollicaris, Larus glaucescens, 

 Phalacrocorax pelagicus robustus, Oidemia deglandi, Calidris are- 

 nar'ia and Limosa fedoa.'- One species, Eadromias moi'inelliis, 

 obtained at King's Island, is new to the North American fauna, 

 and another, Asio accipifrinu-s Mcllhenntji, seems to represent a 

 new geographic race. 



Gavia adamsii (Gray) — Yellow-billed Loou. 



Twelve specimens of this species were obtained, ten of them were 

 adults in nuptial plumage taken ou the following dates : ]\Iales — 

 June 30, 25, June — , 1898; September 25 (2), August 28 (2), 

 August 30, 1897; Females— June 27 and July 21, 1898. None 

 of these show any trace of molt, except Xo. 671 (September 25), 

 in which the neck feathers are being lost. 



A young bird, taken June 14, is in full juvenal plumage-, 

 white on the breast, belly and throat; lower neck dusky like the 

 sides of the neck, above general color gray, feathers mostly black- 

 ish at the base with broad gray edgings, crown ami back of neck 

 gray sides with feathers tipped with brownish. 



One adult specimen, September 29, has just completed the molt, 

 and the new wings are only half grown : aljove glossy black with 

 a tinge of green appearing "scaly" iu certain lights, top of 

 head and back of neck black, feathers ou sides of neck slightly 

 tipped with black. 



The flight feathers iu the Loons are evidently lost all at once, 

 as in the Ducks. 



Gavia pacifica (Lawr.)— Pacific Loon. 



A series of forty-nine specimens. Twenty-five males — July 5, 

 '98; July 11, '98; August 25, '97 (2); August 20, '97 (2): 

 August 24, August 26, August 30 (8), August 31 (9), and 

 twenty females — August 24, '97,(2); August 30 (5), August 



- Only twelve birds were obtained in August, 1898, and only six mam - 

 mals, i. e., Gavia adamsii, Dafila acuta, Tringa bairdi (4), 2\ subruficol- 

 lis, T. canuta, Phalaropus lobatus (3), Budytes flavus leucostriatus and 

 Spermophilus empetra (6), so that with the above exceptions all August to 

 December specimens were obtained in 1897 and all .Tanuary to July speci- 

 mens marked Pt. Barrow in 1898. 




6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900 



31 (11), September 16 and 20 — these are all in more or less worn 

 nuptial dress, some have a few new pinfeathers just shoving their 

 points, but molt Is indicated more by the extreme looseness of the 

 old body feathers than by the appearance of new ones. There is 

 no trace of molt in the flight feathers. Four specimens are in full 

 winter dress, though the primaries still show the traces of the 

 sheaths at their bases. 



There are no young birds. 



Gavia lumme (Gunn)— Red-throated Loon. 



A series of seventeen specimens. 



Four are downy young taken August 3, at Wainwright Island. 

 Twelve are adults: Males— August 15, 20 (2), 26, 30 (2), Sep- 

 tember 17, 1897,and females— August 3 (2), 26, 27, 30, 1897. 



These show no molt whatever, though several are very much 

 worn, especially No. 360 (August 26) and No. 776 (August 30). 

 One female, September 17, has completed the molt, though the 

 primaries still retain portions of the sheaths. 



TJria troile californica (Bryant)— California Murre. 



One specimen from King's Island, July 23, 1897, is referable 

 to this race Measurements: wing 8 ins., length of culmen 1.62 

 ins., depth of culmen .55 in. 



TJria lomvia (Linn.)— BrUnuich's Murre. 



Seventeen specimens represent this si)ecies. A pair taken May 

 23 are in full nuptial plumage. Twelve others (July 31, one 

 female; August 1, six males and five females) are similar, but 

 much worn, with the tips of the primaries often distinctly bleached. 



A female, August 30, is molting. The entire series of remiges 

 have been lost sinmltaneously, as in the Ducks, and the new 

 feathers are just showing beyond the edge of the coverts. The 

 back is about half molted, old feathere showing bleached brown- 

 ish' tips, the new ones jet black. 



Two young in the down, July 28, 1898, are uniform dai-k plum- 

 beous above, lighter below. 



As the question of the relation of the Pt. Barrow birds to U. I. 

 arra naturally presents itself I append measurements of the wing 

 in a series of fourteen specimens. Seven males, 8.15-9 ins., aver- 

 age 8.77; seven females 8.45-8.75, average 8.60. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 7 



Cepphus mandtii (Licht.)— Mandt's Guillemot. 



A most interestiug series of twenty-seven specimens was ob- 

 tained. Beginning with the late summer specimens, these may be 

 described as follows: 



August 30, old breeding bird, very much worn and with wing 

 feathers much bleached. A few white feathers on the breast and 

 neck, but no further molt. 



Ten specimens, August 15 (2), August 21, August 28, August 

 30 (4), August 31, September 15, have lost all or nearly all the 

 remiges, they evidently fall almost simultaneously, but the primary 

 coverts persist. This series shows varying amounts of new white 

 feathers, both above and beloAV. One taken August 15 shows none 

 at all, and in none is there more white than black. 



Four specimens, September 17 (2), September 7, September 8, 

 show the new remiges about half-grown, with the body feathers 

 about half white and half black. 



Two specimens, ^March 10 and 11, are in adult winter plumage, 

 pure white below, interscapulum black with white edges to the 

 feathei's. 



Two others, ^Nlarch 10 and 28, illustrate the spring molt of the 

 body plumage; about one-half of the black feathers have ap- 

 peared. 



Eight young (birds of the year), September 23, January 11 

 (2), Februay 6, March 10, March 24, March 28, March 30, 

 exhibit much variation in the amount of black on the head and 

 black spots on wing coverts. All have narrow black tips to white 

 feathers of the abdomen. None of these birds show any trace of 

 the spring molt which was Avell under way in the adults at the 

 time that most of these were taken. 



Lunda cirrhata Pall.— Tufted Puffin. 



Two females, August 1. Cape Lisbui-ne. 



Fratercula corniculata (Xaum.)— Horned Puffin. 



Four males and four females. Cape Lisburne. 



Cyclorrhynchus psittaculus (Pall.)— Paroquet Auklet. 

 Three females, July 23. King's Island. 



Simorhynchus pusillus (Pall.)— Least Auklet. 

 One specimen, secured August 30. 




8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Stercorarius parasiticus (Linn.)— Parasitic Jfoger. 



Tweuty-two specimens represent the dark phase of plumage: 

 1897— July 24, August 20, August 24 (2), August 30 (3), 

 August — (2), September 9; 1898 — June 1, June 17 (2), June 

 27 (2), July 7, July 8 (4), July 9 (2). 



', These are very uniform in plumage and exhibit no molt. Two 

 are slightly mottled below with light crossbars, and two others 

 have bai'red under wing coverts, but from the worn condition of 

 the plumage they appear not to be birds of the year. 



The liglit phase of plumage is illustrated by nine specimens: 

 1897— July 24 (2), August 20, August 24, August 30 (3), Sep- 

 tember 9 (2). These show no variation. 



Stercorarius longicaudus Vieill. — Long-tailed Jeeger. 



Fourteen specimens secured 1898: June — (2), June 11 (2), 

 June 17 (4), July 2, July 8, July 13 (4). 



These are all quite uniform, except one male taken Julv 13 (No. 

 1,302). This is slightly mottled across the In-east, the under wing 

 coverts are barred with white and black, and some of the tail 

 coverts similarly barred, the back is sprinkled with dull brownish 

 feathers. Some of the feathers forming the white collar are 

 barred with dusky and some of those on the head have whitish 

 edges. All the feathers are worn and the bird has evidently 

 passed the winter in this dress. 



Stercorarius pomarinus (Temm.)— Pomarine Jaeger. 



The light phase of plumage is represented by a series of forty- 

 six specimens: 1897 — July 24, August — (5), August 14 (8), 

 August 15 (2), August 20 (10), August 24 (2), August 30, Au- 

 gust 26, August 27; 1898— May 23 (3), May 30, May 31 (6), 

 June 2, June 4, June — , July 3, July 8. 



Twenty-nine are in the dark phase: 1897 — August 20 ( 2), 

 August 30 (4), September 20; 1898— June — (3), June 6, June 

 8 (2), June 11, June 12, June 14 (3), June 23, June 28 (2), 

 July 3, July 8 (7). 



There are also twelve young in the down, making total of 

 eighty-seven specimens. 



While the August specimens of both phases are molting some of 

 the body plumage, there is no trace of molt in the flight feathers. 

 The variations of plumage exhibited are as follows: Of the white 




1900.] KATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 9 



series twelve have the under tail c(»verts barred and the lower bellv 

 and thighs more or less white, the lightest of all (Xo. 208, August 

 15, 1897) having only a trace of dark shading on the belly and only 

 the tips of the under coverts black ; there is scarcely any black on 

 the breast and the bars on the sides are restricted to the sides of 

 the chest, there is a broad white collar on the hind neck and con- 

 siderable white on the upper tail coverts. 



iSTo. 864, male, May 23, 1898, while uniform dusky on the 

 lower belly, is even whiter on the breast than the last specimen 

 described. There are no black spots on the breast, and only slight 

 traces on the sides of the chest; and no white on the tail coverts 

 either above or below. 



Other specimens have the whole breast very broadly spotted. 

 Two (1,240 and 1,211, July 8 and 3, 1898) have the under coverts 

 barred ; the back of the neck is black with white bars, and the 

 upper tail coverts marked with white. Throat streaked longitu- 

 dinally, breast and sides strongly barred, and lower belly dusky 

 mixed with white. The only really white area being in the centre 

 of the abdomen and even here the tips of the feathers are dusky. 

 In the dark series, some specimens are uniform deep sooty, with 

 the head glossy bluish black ; others have a golden tinge to the 

 collar ; some have the breast feathers obscurely barred, and tipped 

 with purplish or buff. 



One bird of the year (September 20, 1897) has the feathers 

 above tipped with pinkish buff, while those of the lower surface, 

 including the under tail coverts are transversely barred with pink 

 and dusky, the bars being very broad and distinct on the coverts. 



The downy nestlings may be grouped in three series: 



A. Average length 5 ins. July 6, July 10, July 27 (3). 

 Almost uniform plumbeous ; down long like that of a young gull. 



B. Average length 8 ins. July 10, July 27 (2). 

 Similar, with remiges and some body feathers just sprouting. 



C. Average length 12 ins. Wings about one-quarter grown, 

 banded feathers on back and breast, but body still well covered 

 with down. 



Larus barrovianus (Ridgw.)— Pt. Barrow Gull. 



A study of the fine series of thirty-seven specimens confirms 

 ^Ir. Ridgway's views of the changes in plumage which this bird 

 undergoes. 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



The series may be grouped as follows : 



(A. ) Five birds of the year are mottled above with gray, pale 

 buff and white, with more or less gray on the under parts. These 

 specimens are as follows : 



578. September 17, wing 16 ins., plumage very dark. 



579, September 17, wing 18.40 ins,, 

 648. September 2o, wings 17.25 ins., 

 651. September 28, wings 17,50 ins,, 

 665. September 28, wings 18.20 ins., 



(B. ) Nine specimens represent adult birds in the first breeding 

 season. These are nearly white with some buff and dusky 

 mottled feathers on the back and with mottled wing feathers. 

 The dark feathers are not remnants of the juvenal plumage, as 

 would at first be supposed, as fall specimens show them still in the 

 pinfeather sheaths just like the white ones. 



The following are in this plumage: June 1, August — (8), 

 September 5 (5). The September specimens are molting the 

 remiges, and the new feathers are white like the old ones, and not 

 gray like those of old adults! 



(C. ) Four specimens, older birds, or perhaps birds of the same 

 age as the last, but for some reason more advanced in plumage, 

 have the backs partly pearl-gray like fully mature specimens, 

 but are otherwise like the last lot. 



July 24. — Molt of wings nearly completed. 



Another is very pure pearl gray above, but witli the new 

 plumage there are a number of the sooty feathers characteristic of 

 the young bird ! 



August 20. — Very light above ; molt of wings advanced to 

 second primary, old and new remiges pure white, color below dark. 



September 5. — Molt advanced to first primary. 



(D. ) Sixteen specimens are in the normal adult plumage, with no 

 dusky feathei'S, except a few streaks on the heads of two speci- 

 mens (September 5). These were takeu June 2, June 17, July 

 24, August 1, August 11, August 24, September 5 (3), September 

 12, September 17 (2), September 24 (2). September 25, Octobers. 



(E. ) Three others ai'e very peculiar and ai-e perhaps very old in- 

 dividuals. Two females, takeu June 8, are pure white all over, 

 with just a tinge of pearl on the back and midtlle wing coverts. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 11 



Another female, August 27, is similar, but is darker below and 

 has slight dusky streaks on head and tail. 



Three young in the down, July 13, are grayish white mottled 

 obscurely on the back with jjlumbeous, face and head distinctly 

 spotted with dark plumbeous. 



The plumages of this species are very 2iuzzling, the birds of the 

 year (A), and the normal adults (D), with plain pearl mantle, 

 pure white bodies and srray primaries, are easily picked out. 

 There remain, however, a number of others which may be grouped 

 in three lots: (B) White birds with no pearl mantle, but with 

 many dusky feathers above similar to those of birds of the 

 year, and with pure white primaries ; (C) Similar to the last, but 

 with a more or less perfectly developed pearl mantle; (E) Pure 

 white birds with only a trace of pearl and with white primaries. 



Individuals of (B) and (E) occur in the breeding season along 

 with normal adults (D), so that it seems likely that (B) and (C) 

 are breeding birds of the first year, differing individually in the 

 state of advancement of their plumage, or perhaps they represent 

 birds of one and two years of age. The curious point is that 

 those which are molting are acquiring white primaries like those 

 they are shedding, instead of pearl gray ones like those of the 

 adult ! 



(E ) may be regarded as extremely old birds or perhaps abnor- 

 mal specimens, differing in their very pale plumage and white 

 primaries. The possibility of (B), (C) and (E) representing 

 another species is apparently not worthy of consideration. 

 Larus nelsoni Ileash.— Nelson's Gull. 



One male specimen, taken September 5, has the head streaked 

 with dusky, the mantle plain pearl, wing molt advanced to the 

 outermost primary, which has not yet been cast. 



Larus glaucescens Naum.— Glaucous-winged Gull. 



One male secured July 24 at Pt. Clarence is in the molt. It has 

 a verv dark mantle ; four outer primaries are the dusky ones of 

 the first year, the I'est having been renewed, but only partly 

 grown. The tail is dusky. 



Another specimen, a bird of the year, is doubtfully referred to 

 this species. It is a male secured August 15, and is in the molt. 

 The plumage above is very dark for a gull of this sort, much 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



flarkei' than auy juvenal L. barrovianus, and exceedingly varied 

 with pinkish, dark brown and white, a few peai'1-gray feathers also 

 appear on the back. Below dusky. Old primaries dull brown, 

 probably bleached, new ones deep black, inner ones grayish with 

 black ends and light tips. 



Xema sabinii (Sab.)— Sabine's Gull. 



Ninety-four specimens representing only adults and birds of the 

 year, with no molting specimens, are in the collection. Birds of 

 the year were taken August 14 (2), August 15 (4), August 20 

 (3), August 24, iVugust 30 (7), August 31, September 7, Sep- 

 tember 8, September 9 (28), September 17. Full-plumaged 

 adults, June 23 (3), June 27, July 31, August 3 (2), August 14 

 (3), August 15 (4), August 20 (3), August 30 (3), Septem- 

 ber 9 (17). 



The above mentioned adults are practically identical and though 

 August birds exhibit some new feathers, with sheaths at their 

 bases, there is no general molt, and no trace of it in the wings. 



Eight other specimens, taken August 3 (5) and August 15 (3), 

 are probably breeding birds of the fir.-t year. They show a consider- 

 able variation, one extreme having white feathers scattered all over 

 the gray, especially on the throat, and the black collar broken 

 with white; the other extreme having the throat entirely white, 

 forehead and cheeks mainly so, nape spotted with gray, and a 

 broad blackish collar on the hind neck. 



These birds look exactly like molting specimens, but examination 

 shows no trace of molt and all the feathers are in exactly the same 

 condition. It is such series as this that have frequently misled 

 ornithologists into the belief that the feathers were actually chang- 

 ing color, while, as a matter of fact, the pied plumage, often ditier- 

 ent in every individual, is nevertheless permanent and unchanged 

 from the time it is assumed until the next molt. 



Rissa tridactyla poUicaris Kidgw.— Pacific Kittiwake. 



Tiie series resolves itself at once into three lots, nestlings, birds 

 of one year, and those of more than one year. There are none in 

 juvoual plumage. Eight downy specimens taken at Cape Lis- 

 burne, August 1, 1897, are pure Avhite below, and on the head 

 and wings; back and rump gray. 



The bird in the first breeding season, as I take it, is grayish on 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15 



the head, and has a browuish collar ou the hind neck, and brown 

 feathers all along the wing from the bend to the extreme tertials. 

 The primaries are also browner than in the adult, the white on the 

 outer ones being restricted to the inner part of the inner web. 



A specimen taken July 9 illustrates this plumage, and is just 

 starting to molt. Nine others, August 15 (4), August 24, Au- 

 gust 30 (4), illustrate the assumption of the full winter adult 

 plumage. 



Five specimens, June 2, July 25, July 27 and August 1 (2), 

 are in adult nuptial plumage, with pure white heads while seventeen 

 others, August 1, August 14, August 15 (3), August 20 (3), 

 August 24, August 30 (7), August 31 are old birds in annual 

 molt. 



One vei-y curious specimen taken August 14 is very pale, being 

 much lighter than the ordinary adult. The Avings also are much 

 lighter and there is no bvown or black on any but the two outer- 

 most primaries, and there only on the outer web. This is an 

 exactly parallel case with the two white Larm barroviauus, and 

 is probably a very old bird, or an abnormal albinistic specimen. 



Pagophila alba (Gunn.)— Ivory Gull. 



One male in nuptial plumage was secured June 2, and seventeen 

 adults just completing the molt, August 28 (2), August 30 (2), 

 August — , September 1 (11), September 17. 



Three young of the year agree well with Ridgway's description 

 {Manual N. A. Birds), but the sides of the face, throat and top 

 of the head are somewhat spotted with gray. These were taken 

 September 7, 16 and 25. 



A note on the label of a September specimen (482 ? j^v.) 

 states that the breast and abdomen were rose-tinted. 



Rhodostethia rosea (Maegil).— iJoss"* Gull. 



Three specimens of this rare bird were obtained : No. 501, 

 Sep. 9, 1897, a young male like the second plate in Murdoch's 

 Report; No. 649, Sep. 23, 1897, an adult male in winter plumage, 

 like the first plate in the above work, but with a concealed black 

 collar ; and No. 1,245, June 9, 1898, an adult male in full nup- 

 tial plumage, bright pink below, white on the head and neck 

 above, and a delicate black collar encirchug the neck. 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Sterna paradissea Briinn— Arctic Tern. 



Ten adults taken June 23 (3), July 24, 27 and 31, August 14 

 (2), August 30, September 7, are quite uniform in plumage and 

 show no signs of molt whatever. This seems to render it doubtful 

 whether these birds molt at all before their autumnal migration. 

 Birds of the year are represented by a beautiful series representing 

 all stages from the recently hatched nestling to the fully plumaged 

 fall bird. The downy young (July 10) is mottled above with dull 

 black and buff, with two well-marked longitudinal patches of the 

 former on the head. The throat is dark plumbeous and the rest of 

 the lower surface snowy white. 



Eight specimens illustrate the growth of the young bird until 

 the flight feathers are about half-grown and the plumage of the 

 back and breast about half attained, the head and throat still 

 remain covered with down, true feathers showing only on the ear 

 coverts. The throat at this period is much lighter and the down 

 on the belly is not so white (series secured July 26 (4), July 27, 

 August 21 (2). 



The full-grown bird of the year is represented by six specimens, 

 August 14, August 30, September 7 (3), September 9. The young- 

 est of these has the feathers of the back broadly bordered with dull 

 black and buff, exactly the shades of the downy young, while 

 below the neck is tinged with butt. 



These tints all wear away by abrasion and bleach out as the bird 

 grosvs older, and the later specimens show very indistinct plum- 

 beous and whitish borders. 



Diomedia nigripes Aud.— Black-footed Albatross. 



Eleven specimens were secured July 5 and 11, five males and six 

 females. 



The principal variation exhibited by this series is the presence of 

 butt edgings to the feathers on the belly of many of the specimens, 

 and the pied appearance of the; upper surface owing to the irregu- 

 lar mingling of feathers of different ages aud dittereut degrees of 

 bleaching. One specimen is nearly white on the lower belly and 

 between the legs. 



Seven of the birds are molting the })rimarie3; four of these are 

 progressing in the usual way, the innermost quill being renewed 

 first, but the others exhibit an exceptional order of molt. In Nos. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. lo 



2 and 10 the second, third and fourth primaiies are only partly 

 grown, the old feathers having been but recently cast, but the 

 first primary (outermost) and the six inner ones are of the old 

 plumage. In No. 3 the fourth, fifth and sixth feathers have been 

 renewed and are only half grown, but the others have not been 

 molted, while in No. 5 the first and second are rencTfed, but none 

 of the others. Furthermore, they are full-grown in one wing 

 and only partially so in the other. 



Sranta nigricans (Lawr.)— Black Brant. 



A series of seventeen specimens. 



Five breeding birds, June — (2), June 6 (2), June 5, are 

 brownish black, lighter than fall birds. Feathers mottled below 

 with pale edgings and much worn, especially on the sides. One 

 example seems younger than the others, and has whitish tips to 

 the wing coverts. It is probably a one-year-old bird. Three fall 

 specimens, August 24, September 17, September 20, are blue black 

 below with no lighter edgings. A scattering of old brownish 

 feathers remains on the upper parts, but the molt is apjiareutly 

 over. One bird of the year, August 30, has white tips to the 

 Aving coverts and feathers of the lower surface, Avhile the general 

 coloration is grayish, and there is no white collar. 



Eight downy young, July 10, are rather light plumbeous, paler 

 in the middle of the abdomen and nearly white on the throat. 

 There is a rather obscure dark breast band, and narrow black and 

 white ring on hind ueck, while the top of the head is blackish. 

 Chen hyperborea (Pall.)— Lesser Snow Goose. 



A male and female taken June 30 are in very worn plumage, 

 the tips of the primaries in the female being bleached to a light 

 brown, though the covered portions remain jet black. 

 Anser albifrons gambeli (Hartl.)— White-fronted Goose. 



Two specimens were obtained. A female, June 3, is in good 

 plumage with a few black feathers on the lower parts. Another, 

 June 14, is very much worn, but otherwise similar. 

 Merganser serrator (Linn.)— Red-breasted Merganser. 



Two males secured July 27, at Pt. Clarence, are of much in- 

 terest, being in the summer molting plumage.^ They are like the 



3 See Stone, Proc. A. N. S., 1899, p. 467. 




16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [190Q. 



nuptial plumage except the head and neck, which resemble the 

 dress of the female; crest dull brown, breast dull gray, many of 

 the black head feathers and pink and black breast feathers of the 

 nuptial plumage still remain, but are easily brushed off, being just 

 ready to drop. The flight feathers have not yet been molted. 



Somateria v-nigra Gray— Pacific Eider. 



A series of twenty-five specimens beautifully illustrates the 

 plumage changes of this species. The females include three adult 

 breeding birds. May 31 and June 8 (2), and five worn breeding 

 specimens, August 24, August 30 (4). 



In the latter the tips of the wing feathers are bleached almost 

 white, while the feathers of the belly are sooty with the bars 

 nearly obliterated. These may possibly be new feathers as they 

 are much less abraded than those of the breast where the bars 

 remain distinct. 



A number of the wing coverts and scapulars seem to be renewed 

 at a spring molt, as in the June birds some are full and dark while 

 others, side by side with them, are pale and worn. The same 

 diffei'ence can be detected in August specimens, where the former 

 feathers are slightly worn and the latter are exceedingly abraded, 

 only the dark central portion remaining. These feathers may, how- 

 ever, possibly persist through the winter from tlie last year's 

 plumage, as indicated below. 



One specimen, taken September 24, has completed the molt, and 

 the new^ wings are about half grown. A few old feathers remain 

 on the breast. The belly is plumbeous and very mottled and 

 irregular in appearance as if only half through molting. No 

 barred feathers are to be seen such as constitute the spring plum- 

 age, so it is probable that the molt of the belly is the last to be 

 completed. 



The male scries consists of eight breeding specimens, May 31 

 (2), June 2, June 3 (')), and seven birds in the transition 

 plumage with wings fully molted and the new feathers half grown; 

 these Avei'c taken September 17, September 23 (5) and October 6. 

 One other, August 20, retains the old wing feathers, and has not 

 quite acquired the full transition plumage on the head, remains of 

 the nuptial feathers being seen on the lores and crown. 



The last of the series, October 0, shows the netv winter plumage 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 



supplanting the dull transition dress. The breast is nearly molted, 

 but is still flecked with brownish feathers, while the new green 

 feathers of the face may be seen just bursting from the pin- 

 feather sheaths. 



The transition plumage is as follows: 



Belly and wings as in nuptial plumage. Head and neck dull 

 brown, streaked with black, with indistinct lighter areas on the 

 head, breast mottled, feathers generally white in centre, black at 

 tip and barred with brown, some all brown and some all white. 

 Scapulars blackish or brownish, varied with white. 



Somateria spectabilis (Linu.)— Kiug Eider. 



• The King Eider is represented by a series of 107 specimens. 



Twelve are downy nestlings, uniform plumbeous, except for a 

 ligliter area on each side of the face. There is no marked 

 difference in the plumage of the young Eiders, though each of the 

 four species can be told at a glance by the feathering at the base of 

 the bill, this character being quite as distinct as in the adults. 



Three others, August 1 (2), August 18, have the down about 

 half replaced by the juvenal plumage. 



The young of the year include fifty-one specimens, August 30, 

 September 5, September 6 (4), September 8 (3), September 17 

 (39), September 24 (3). These exhibit no variation except that 

 the males are less buff below, with the tips of the feathers inclin- 

 ing to white, while all the breast feathers have distinct white cross- 

 bars as well as black ones. 



Of the adult females there are six in full nuptial plumage, taken 

 May 23; three in worn plumage, August 1, August 11, August 

 24, and six which exhibit more or less molt in the body plumage. 

 None are renewing the flight feathers, which are often exceed- 

 ingly worn and bleached. These were taken August 10, August 

 24 (3), August 30, September 17. 



Of the adult males twenty-three are in full nuptial plumage. 

 May 23 (15), May 26 (4), May 27 (3), June 1 (1). The last 

 is peculiar in having the V on the neck open in front, formiug two 

 separate streaks. Two later specimens, August 24 and 30, illus- 

 trate the change to the transition plumage. The breast is speckled 

 all over with the new brown white and black barred feathers, the 

 interscapulum is largely speckled with black, and the head and 

 2 




18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



neck are being covered with dull brown black-tipped feather:^. 

 The pattern of the green and blue areas, as well as the black V 

 are still clearly apparent, though the feathers which remain on these 

 parts are very easily displaced. 



Another specimen, August 24, has fully assumed the transition 

 plumage, but in none of the three has the molt of flight feathers 

 begun, they are very much worn and bleached, 

 Arctonetta fischeri (Brandt)— SpecUcled Eider. 



Thirty-six specimens represent this species. Five downy young 

 taken July 28 are plumbeous with the spectacle-like mark clearly 

 indicated in dull buff. 



Nineteen are birds of the year, taken September 8 (7), and 

 September 17 (12). They are black above, feathers broadly 

 edged with fulvous buft', except sometimes on the rump. Head 

 and neck narrowly streaked with black and buff^ with throat 

 and large eye patch plain ochraceous; below vinaceous bufl' finely 

 vermiculated and irregularly banded with blackish. 



They differ from the adult female in being irregularly mottled 

 below instead of distinctly cross-barred, and in the lack of light 

 cross-bars on the rump. 



The adult female is represented by five specimens, one June 2, in 

 full nuptial plumage, the rest August 80 and September 8 (3), 

 showing much wear and bleaching and some renewal of body 

 feathers, but no molt on the wings. 



Of the adult male there is a series of seven in full nuptial dress, 

 May 31, June 1, June 3, June 22, June 27 (2), June — . 



These vary much in the depth of green between the eye and the 

 bill, some being very pale ami some brownish olive. 



One interesting specimen taken September 17 is in the transition 

 plumage, and the new flight feathers are just full grown. No simi- 

 lar specimen has ever been described so far as I am aware. The 

 head and neck are gray streaked with black, front and cheeks 

 whitish, eye spot gray, centre of throat white, more or less brown 

 black-barred feathers on the breast, back and scapulars largely 

 gray, some white beneath the shoulders. Lower parts gray. 

 Eniconetta stelleri U'tJl.)— SteUer's Duck. 



Sixty specimens are contained in the collection. Twelve are 

 downy young taken July 28. They are much darker than the 

 young of the other Eiders. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 1^ 



Twenty-three are birds of the year, August 30 (14), Septem- 

 ^ber 4 (4), September 5, September 8 (2), September 17, and one 

 without data. 



They have no black on the throat, lower parts are transversely 

 barred with black and chestnut, the individual feathers being 

 white at the base, with a black band and chestnut tip. The black 

 band is sometimes transverse, sometimes curved, and sometimes 

 forming an angular V-like spot; this variation causes much differ- 

 ence in the appearance of the plumage of different birds. 



The adult female is represented by nine specimens, June — , 

 June 9, August 11, August 26 (5), August 30. They show 

 much variation in the markings of the under surface, and the late 

 August specimens exhibit molt in the body plumage, but not in the 

 flight feathers. 



Thirteen adult males in nuptial plumage were taken as follows: 

 June 25 (4), June 27 (2), June 22 (2), July 2, June 9 (2), 

 June 13 (2). 



One peculiar male, June 25, is exceedingly worn ; speculum 

 dull brown Avithout a trace of blue; whole plumage dull and 

 mottled, eye region and cheeks whitish, as is also the breast. 

 Throat black but not glossy. This bird appears like a bird of the 

 year which never molted properly in the spring. 

 Clangula hyemalis (Linn.)— Old Squaw. 



Forty-four specimens. 



Eight downy young collected July 28, to illustrate variation 

 with age may be grouped in three lots. 



A. Throat and belly white, with a brownish breast band. 

 ■Glossy black above, with a brownish cast caused by mixture of 

 brown filaments. A black mark below and behind the eye. 



B. Browner and more faded, abdomen darker owing to plum- 

 beous color of later down. 



C. Whole lower surface with strong plumbeous cast, quills not 

 yet sprouted. 



Ten birds of the year are in the familiar plumage representing 

 that stage, September 8, September 16 (2), September 24 (7). 



Adult females were taken, June 8 (2), July 31, September 8 

 (2), September 24, October 5. The fall specimens have nearly 

 completed the molt. The October bird has the head nearly pure 

 white with very obscure crown and cheek patches. 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



There are nineteen adult males. Of these, five are in nuptial 

 dress, May 31, June 2, June 8 (3). One of these has the top of 

 the head white, some black, some intermediate. 



Three taken August 24 are in the molt. The wings are nearly 

 full grown, and the tail about one-half; the sides of the body 

 are deep pearl gray. 



Six others, August 24, August 30, September 8 (3), September 

 17, are similar, but the neck and breast are more mottled with new 

 feathers and the pearl gray scapulars are beginning to appear. 

 Other specimens are as follows: 



September 17 and 24 (3), scapulars all pearl gray, head and 

 neck nearly white, except cheek patch. 



October 8, head and neck almost pure white, no cheek patch. 



These species apparently acquire no " transition" body plumage 

 during the molt of the flight feathers, as is the case with many 

 ducks. 



Oidemia deglandi Bonap.— White-winged Scoter. 



One male in full nuptial plumage, taken June 22. 

 Fhalacrooorax pelagicus robustus Ridgw. — Violet-green Cormorant. 



One male specimen taken June 8, at Pt. Barrow. It is entirely 

 destitute of white plumes. 



Grus canadensis (Linn.)— Little Brown Crane. 



Two specimens, still in worn, very rusty plumage, taken 

 June 25. 



1.163 — length of culmen, 3.60; wing, 17.76 iuchej:. 



1.164 d length of culmen, 3.50; wing, 16.50 •' 



Crymophilus fulicarius (Linn.)— Red Phalarope. 



A series of eighty-five of these birds is in the collection, which 

 illustrates very nicely most of the stages of the molt. 



Twenty adult males in nuptial plumage obtained June 3 (3), June 

 4 (13), June 7 (2), June 8, June 23, exhibit considerable varia- 

 tion in plumage. Not a single specimen is uniform rufous beneath, 

 though one (1,158) is very nearly so. The majority have a con- 

 siderable sprinkling of white feathers, and in several there are more 

 white than rufous. The lightest specimen has some gra}' feathers 

 scattered over the back, while the throat and sides of the face are 

 white. Others have these parts more or less gray, while the back 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



is uniformly streaked with black and buff. The darkest of all 

 has the sides of the face chestnut rufous and the gray throat much 

 restricted. These light feathers are not indications of molt, but 

 were evidently acquired at the same time as the rest of the 

 plumage. 



The adult female is represented by a series of eleven taken June 

 4 (10), June 23. There is much less variation than in the male, 

 and a greater tendency to uniform coloration below, four of the 

 specimens being without any white. 



Two males, taken July 31, and five secured August 3 are molt- 

 ing the body plumage, and show all gradations of gray mottling 

 above and white beneath, while a female (1"1), taken August 14, 

 is entirely gray and white, except a few rusty feathers on the belly 

 and vent, and striped ones on the rump. In none of the above 

 males is there any trace of molt of the wing feathers, and in all but 

 one they are in good condition, not perceptibly more worn than in 

 the June specimens. 



In the female the three outer primaries are distinctly fresher 

 and darker than the others, and the middle pair of rectrices are 

 being renewed, as well as the three inner primaries on one wing. 



In another molting male (285), taken August 20, the same dif- 

 ference is seen in the outer primaries, and, furthermore, the fresher 

 feathers still have the sheaths around their bases, showing that they 

 have just been renewed, and the same is true of the three inner- 

 most primaries. This molt is, however, only seen in one wing, the 

 other retaining the old feathers throughout. In body plumage this 

 bird has nearly finished the molt. 



Birds of the year ai-e illustrated by eight downy young, July 3 

 and 4 and 27 (4), and 37 in the juvenal plumage, taken July 24, 

 August 3 (4), August 10, August 24 (16), August 26 (10), August 

 30 (2), September 5, September 8 (2). Those taken July 24 and 

 August 30 still retain traces of down about the head, while the 

 later ones all show more or less gray feathers above, though none 

 ■appear to have completed this molt. There is no molt in wing or 

 tail, and the long black bufF-edged tertials seem to be retained 

 through the winter, which thus serve as an easy distinguishing 

 mark in separating them from winter adults in which these feathers 

 are gray. The dark tinted feathers across the breast also serve to 

 distinguish them. 




22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Phalaropus lobatus (Linn.)— Northern Phalarope. 



Three specimeus were obtained, an adult male in full nuptial 

 plumage, June 15 ; a very much worn specimen, July 27, and a 

 bird of the year, July 28, which still retains a considerable 

 amount of down about the head. Three full-grown birds of the 

 year, August 7 and August 17 (2), 1898. 



Arenaria interpres (Linn.)— Turnstone. 



Three typical breeding birds were taken respectively May 29 

 (c?). May 31 (?), June 2 (d). Two others secured July 11 (cT 

 and ?) are more worn and the female is beginning to renew the 

 plumage of the back, the new feathers being exactly like the old 

 ones. Unfortunately, no later adults were obtained. 



A large series of young are in the collection. One secured 

 June 4, 1898, at Pt. Barrow, and two July 24, 1897, at Port 

 Clarence, are still decidedly downy about the head and neck, 

 though otherwise the juveual plumage is well advanced. 



Fourteen others are practically uniform and are in full juvenal 

 plumage, taken as follows: August 10 (.')), August lo (2), August 

 14 (2), August 20, August 26, August 80, September 4 (2). 

 Eudromias morinellus (Linn.)— DottereL 



One specimen taken at King's Ishiud, July 23, 1897, an adult 

 female, just beginning the molt. The three outer primaries still 

 remain, and but little body molt is yet apparent. 



This is the first record of this species for North America; in fact, 

 it seems to be very rare even on the Asiatic coast. One was 

 recorded by Cassin from Japan, but ^Nlr. Swinhoe, who reviewed 

 his paper in The Ibis, 1863, p. 444, seriously doubted the correct- 

 ness of the identification, with no reason whatever. The result is, 

 that wherever the record is cited it is (juex'ied. The specimen 

 referred to is still preserved in the Academy's collection, and is 

 unquestionably a Dotterel in first winter plumage. 



Squatarola squatarola (Linn.)— Black-beUied Plover. 



Only six specimens were obtained, but they arc quite interesting 

 as throwing some light on the vexed question of the molt in this 

 species. 



An adult male and female, obtained .lune 26, have lost the two 

 innermost primaries and are renewing the plumage of the back, 

 the new feathers being gray edged with whitish. Two other males. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



July 20, 1898, are in about the same condition. Another specimen, 

 taken August 20, has a considerable number of similar feathers 

 on the back, but there is no sign of molt and the primaries are so 

 worn as to make it extrerijely unlikely that they were recently 

 acquired. Another bird in the Academy collection. No. 34,545, 

 Buckland river, Alaska, August 1, 1895, has gray feathers scat- 

 tered through the plumage of the back, but no other trace of molt, 

 and is very close to some of Mr. Brewster's black-bellied fall 

 specimens, from the New England coast, which were courteously 

 loaned to me for examination. 



All the birds above mentioned have black bellies and show no 

 indication of shedding this plumage, although some of them 

 (notably some in Mr. Brewster's series) have acquired some white 

 feathers. These may, however, have been similarly colored in 

 spring as we often see mottled birds at this time. 



While it seems doubtful whether the flight feathers are always 

 molted during the sojourn of the bird in the far north, it is certain 

 that in some cases a part of them, at least, are renewed. Further- 

 more, all the material which bears upon the question of the molt 

 of the adult indicates that a number of gray feathers are acquired 

 on the back after the breeding season, though the molt is far from 

 complete, and that the black under surface is retained at all sea- 

 sons, probably becoming purer with age. This is the theory ad- 

 vanced by Mr. Mackay {The Auk, 1892, p. 143), and the material 

 before me corroborates it in every instance. 



The sixth specimen obtained is a bird of the year, with round 

 yellow spots above and triangular shaft streaks below. 



Charadrius dominicus MulL— American Golden Plover. 



Twenty-eight specimens of this bird are contained in the collec- 

 tion representing various ages and plumages. 



Between the adult male and female, I fail to detect any appreci- 

 able difference in plumage. Eleven adults taken June to August 

 serve to illustrate the beginning of the annual molt. One taken 

 June 1 and two secured June 2 show no evidence of molt what- 

 ever, and may be regarded as typical breeding birds. They are 

 uniform black below, but show great variation in the plumage of 

 the upper surface, many of the old abraded winter feathers being 

 still retained, as already noticed by Nelson, while some of the 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



earliest acquired spring feathers are already beginning to fade and 

 become ragged. Four later specimens (June 18, 27 (2), 28) show 

 much greater abrasion, and a general bleaching of the yellow 

 spots to whitish, while beneath the plumage of the back and head 

 new feathers are everywhere to be found, beginning to expand. 



In the next series (July 24, 27 and August 1), these feathers 

 are fully grown and a number of white and gray feathers are 

 scattered over the breast and belly. There is, however, 

 no trace of molt in the remiges, rectrices or greater wing coverts 

 in any of the birds, and it seems that they are not lost till 

 later. One of the birds secured August 1, while much mottled 

 with light feathers below, has undergone scarcely any molt on the 

 back, where the plumage is mainly composed of the much abraded 

 spring feathers. 



Sixteen specimens are in full fall plumage (August 1, August 

 18 (8), August 20 (7)). They vary considerably in the bright- 

 ness of the yellow spots and the extent to which they are abraded, 

 but cannot be separated into old and young (if both are contained 

 in the lot ?) by any tangible character. There is no trace of old 

 feathers on a single specimen, while all have apparently molted 

 the flight feathers. The bellies are witliout a trace of black. 



One nestling is bright golden above mottled with black, whitish 

 on the back of the neck and everywhere below. 



Tryngites subruficoUis ( Li nu.)— Buff-breasted Sandpiper. 



One female specimen obtained June, 1898, in full nuptial plu- 

 mage, and a male, August lo, 1898, in winter plumage. 



Tringa canutus Linn.— Knot. 



Six specimens in full first winter plumage taken July 31 (5) 

 and August 17. 



Triuga couesi (Ridgw.)— Aleutian Sandpiper. 



Three specimens in winter plumage were obtained at Port Clar- 

 ence, August 22, 1898. 



Tringa alpina paoifioa Coues— American Dunlin. 



A fine series of sixty specimens of the Dunlin is contained in 

 the collection, and as the adults are represented throughout the 

 molting season, the change of plumage in this species is excellently 

 illustrated. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25 



Nine adults, June 2 (2), June 4, June 7 (2), June 8 (4), repre- 

 sent the height of the nuptial plumage and are like the latest spring 

 migrants on our coasts. 



One taken June 27 illustrates the beginning of the molt, having 

 shed the five inner pinmaries. The new feathers which have not 

 yet broken from the sheath seem to be all at an equal stage of 

 development. The next specimen, taken July 31, shows the two 

 outermost primaries about half grown, while the others are fully 

 grown. In this bird, too, the wing coverts have all been renewed, 

 and upon raising the plumage on the back many new feathers are 

 to be seen, the earlier specimen showed no trace of a molt, except 

 in the primaries. 



A series of fourteen molting adults (August 10 (2), August 13 

 (4), August 18 (3), August 20, August 24 (2), August 26, Sep- 

 tember 1), resemble the last in the molt of the wing, though the 

 later ones have all the remiges fully grown. The extent of the 

 body molt is very variable, some of the later specimens being still 

 quite rusty above, while earlier specimens are quite gray, aU still 

 show the black on the belly, though one taken August 24 has 

 nearly lost it. 



Eight downy young were collected July 6, 8, 10 and 23. They 

 are mottled with chestnut, black and butfy white above with little 

 buff dots scattered about on the tips of the plumes. Forehead 

 whitish with a central black stripe forking into two on the top of 

 the head, and passing into chestnut brown, broad buff}" white 

 superciliaries, which unite below the occiput, and tawny postocular 

 stripe, strong buff wash below the eye. Under parts white with a 

 buff collar across the neck. 



One young bird, taken July 16, has the body well covered by 

 the first winter plumage, but is still quite doAvny on the head, 

 breast and flanks. The remaining twenty-eight are all fully 

 grown, and in the usual winter plumage, August 10 (5), August 

 21 (8), August 24, August 18, August 20, August 26 (6), Septem- 

 ber 1 (5), September 4. 



Tringa maculata (Vieill)— Pectoral Sandpiper. 



A series of twenty-six specimens was obtained. Ten are breed- 

 ing males, with the throat sack enormously extended, spreading the 

 feathers to such an extent that the black bases are clearly visible. 




26 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900- 



These were obtained May 80 (2), May 31 (2j, June 2 (4), June 8 

 (2). Six female specimens in nuptial plumage were secured May 

 30-June 7, and a much worn specimen was obtained July 31, 

 which is beginning to molt the plumage of the back and breast, 

 though there is no evidence of molt elsewhere. 



Five specimens are in winter plumage (July 31 and August 20 

 (4)). These show no variation, except that No. 288, August 20, 

 is more deeply colored on the breast than any of the others. I 

 am uncertain whether these are adults or birds of the year. If 

 the former, then this species molts before migrating southward, 

 like A. alpina padfica, but not nearly so early. 



Four downy young are labelled T. maculata. They do not diflfer 

 from young T. alpina padfica, except in rather darker coloration. 

 Tringa bairdii Coues— Baird's Sandpiper. 



A large .series of breeding birds was obtained as follows: May 

 28, May 30, June 2 (3), June 7, June 8 (7). These are quite 

 uniform in plumage, though the later ones are a little more worn. 



Three specimens, taken June 11, June 15, June 27, show more 

 or less new body feathers both al)ove and below, when the old 

 plumage is raised, and another secured July 11 has nearly com- 

 pleted the molt of the head, breast and back. In none of these, 

 however, is there a trace of molt on the wings or tail. 



Eleven birds in first winter plumage were secured, July 31 (8), 

 August 1 (2) and September 4. These differ from the winter plu- 

 mage of the adults in the conspicuous white margins to the feathers 

 of the back and the greater amount of streaking on the breast. 



Ten youug in the down wei'e taken July 16, 18 and 27; they are 

 darker thau young Duulius, with the brown tints darker and not 

 so rufous, while the light mottlings are whiter and less tinged 

 with buff". Two others taken August 1 ai-e intermediate betweeu 

 the down and first winter plumage. 



Tringa frisciooUis Vieill.— Bonaparte's Sandpiper. 



Five of these birds were taken as follows: June 2, June 8 (2), 

 .June 14 (2). All are in full nuptial plumage, and show no siga 

 of molt. 



Ereunites pusillus (I.inn.)— Semipalmated Sandpiper. 



A series of thirteen specimens was obtained. A breeding bird, 

 June 6, is rather worn, without a trace of chestnut tint* on the 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27 



plumage. Two others, obtained July 8, show a considerable 

 renewal of the plumage of the back, but no molt in the flight 

 feathers. A female from Port Clarence, July 24, is similar. 

 The other specimens appear to be birds of the year, one from Pt. 

 Barrow, August 12, and another, Port Clarence, July 24, still 

 retain much down about the head, while two others from Point 

 Hope, July 31, and one from Port Clarence, July 24, are in full 

 winter plumage; also July 31, 1898 (4). The shortness of bill in the 

 Pt. Barrow birds is extreme, measurements being as follows: No. 

 1,243, .65 in. ; No. 1,028, .74; No. 1,242, .70 inches. 



Those from Point Hope measure No. 88, 1.00; No. 87, .80; 

 and from Port Clarence, No. 29, .74 inches. 



Limosa haemastica (Linn.) — Hudsonian Godwit. 



Two Specimens; obtained July 14, are slightly mottled with new 

 gray feathers above and below, and show a number of pin-feathers 

 beneath the plumage, but there is no indication of molt in 

 flight feathers!. 

 Limosa fedoa (Linn.) — Marbled Godwit. 



One bird of the year, obtained August 26. 



Calidris arenaria (Linn.)— Sanderling. 



Six breeding specimens, June 6 and 7, and one bird of the year, 

 August 27. 



Macrorhamphus scolopaceus (Say.)— Long-billed Dowitcher. 



One adult female in w'orn nuptial plumage, secured June 30, and 

 twelve birds of the year, taken August 1, August 20 (8), August 

 24 (2), August 26, represent this species. 



The bills of the latter series range from 2.25 to 2.95 inches, 

 but there is no variation in the plumage. 



Lagopus rupestris (Gm.)— Rock Ptarmigan. 



Four specimens only were collected. 



One male, taken in April, is in worn winter plumage, while two 

 others, June 25 and 29, are extremely worn, and of a dirty 

 brownish white. There are new brown feathers on top of the 

 head and on the back, but apparently no general molt, and con- 

 sidering the very late date it seems that the molt must have been 

 arrested in some manner in these specimens. 



A female, taken June 26, is in almost full nuptial plumage, but 




28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



retains a few white feathers below. There is no molt of the flight 

 feathers. 



Lagopus lagopus (Linn.)— Willow Ptarmigan. 



Sixteen adult specimens illustrate the winter and nuptial plu- 

 mages. 



Twelve of these, October 6 (2), October lo (3), October 9 (7), 

 are white, with a few old rufous feathers about the head. Two 

 others, January 11 and March 21, show effects of wear, but are 

 still in the white dress. 



The next specimen, April 18, is very much worn with many new 

 rufous feathers coming in on the head and neck, while in the last, 

 June 22, the nuptial plumage is completed except a few old white 

 feathers on the belly. 



In none of these is there any indication of a spring molt of the 

 primaries, secondaries or greater coverts. 

 Falco rusticolus gyrfalco (Linn.)— Gyrfalcon. 



Two specimens, September and November 7, 1897. 



The former has scarcely any transv^erse barring above, and is 

 very dark below. The latter is strongly barred above with bufty, 

 and is white below streaked with dusky. 

 Asio accipitrinus mcilhennyi Stone— Arctic Short-eared Owl. 



A series of nine males and two female Short-eared Owls were 

 secured, June 2-22; have already been described (Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. ScL, 1899, p. 478). 

 Nyctea nyctea (Linn.)— Snow Owl. 



Eleven adults, taken June 3-27, are contained in the collection. 

 Six of these are marked male and four female, while one is 

 unsexed. There is great variation in the amount of dark barring 

 on the plumage, but the nearly pure white ones are always males, 

 and the darkest ones always females; among the intermediate 

 specimens there are two specimens, one male and the other female, 

 which are almost alike in plumage. 



Tiiree of the sexed females are nearly denuded of feathers on 

 the breast and abdomen, but the other as well as the unsexed speci- 

 men which, from its measurements appeai-s to be a female, are well 

 feathered and were eWdently not nesting. 



The whitest example is Xo. 1.089, taken June 12, the only mark- 

 ings on it are small black tips to the outer primaries, a few dull 




1900.] >*ATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29 



streaks on the crown, and an obscure grayish spot on the wing- 

 coverts. The lightest female is decidedly white, interscapulum, 

 back and rump pure white, tail slightly spotted, wings and coverts 

 irregularly but not heavily barred, beneath the bars are few^ and 

 faint, and confined to the middle of the abdomen. No molt was 



A series of twenty-four nestlings in various stages is of particu- 

 lar interest as it illustrates two distinct conditions of the downy 

 plumage. 



The birds may be grouped in four lots: 



A. Average length of skin 4.25 ins., June 25 (1), July 6 (5), 

 July 10 (2). Pure white down all over the body, the largest 

 individuals showing dusky traces on the AAings. 



B. Average length 6.50 ins. July 6 (9). White down not 

 continuous over the body, all the feather tracts distinctly dusky 

 with the new plumbeous down. 



C. Average length 8 ins. July 6 (3), July 10 (2). Prevailing 

 color du.sky plumbeous, plumes all tipped wilh white, these tips 

 being, of course, the earher white down. 



D. Average length 12 ins. July 10 (2). Thickly covered 

 everywhere with plumbeous down, much of it with white tips. 

 Some fluffy banded plumbeous scapular feathers and the Aving quills 

 just sprouting. 



Horizopus ridiardsonii (Swains.) — Western Wood Pewee. 



One female secured July 1, 1898, materially extends the north- 

 ward distribution of the species. This bird is interesting, as it is 

 renewing the outermost primary of the left wing which had evi- 

 dently been accidentally lost. Instances of renewal of rectrices 

 are common, but this is the first instance that has come to my 

 notice of the renewal of a remex. 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Calcarius lapponicus alascensis Ridgw.— Alaskan Longspur. 



The LoDgspur is represented by a series of ninety-nine speci- 

 mens, eighty-one from Pt. Barrow and eighteen from Port Clarence. 

 Compared with a series of Greenland birds, they are perceptibly 

 lighter on the upper surface, the black lines being much narrower. 

 In no other respect, however, can I see any material difference, 

 and the absence of rusty tints on the wings does not seem to be a 

 constant character. 



Twenty-eight breeding males (May 28 (16), May 30 (9), June 

 2 (2), June 11 (1)) present a very uniform appearance. In nearly 

 all the chestnut of the neck, black of the throat and light post- 

 ocular stripes are very clear and have entirely lost the buff edgings. 

 In many, however, the light tips remain on the lowest of the 

 black breast feathers and in none is the black cap entirely pure. 



Nine breeding females (May 28 (5), May 30 (2), June 2 (1), 

 June 14 (1)) show considerable variation in the brightness of the 

 black chest band and the chestnut collar, and in all but the last 

 abrasion is much less advanced than in the males. It seems prob- 

 able that the dull specimens are younger birds. 



Six males secured at Port Clarence, July 24 and 25, are in the 

 midst of the molt. In three of these the fourth primary has just 

 been shed, in the others, the third, second and tirst respectively. 



In the first two specimens the three old outer rectrices are still 

 retained, in next two only the outermost pair, and in the last the 

 entire tail has been shed. One or two of these birds show the 

 culmination of the abrasion on the crown, which is pure black, a 

 condition not noticed in any of the June spscimens. It is evident 

 that this process continues until the molt is actually under way. 

 Another point of interest is that many of the new feathers on 

 the chin arc white almost or quite to their bases, while these feath- 

 ers in May and June specimens are jet black, indicating a slight 

 molt in spring, which is well known to occur in many Fri)>(ji/lUhi: 



Two molting females from Port Clarence, July 23 and 24, are 

 in the same stage as the first males above i-eferred to. 



Nineteen specimens are in the juveual plumage and thirty-five 

 in full winter dress. 



Four specimens (July 8, 18 (2) and 27) have only half-grown 

 tails, while two secured at Port Clarence, July 24, are in {)erfect 

 juvenal plumage, the molt to winter plumage follows almost imme- 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31 



diately, as all the other birds (July 24 to August 18) show it in 

 progress. The new feathers first become noticeable on the rump, 

 and the molt is well advanced here before it is apparent on the 

 lower surface. 



The fall specimens are separable at once into males and females 

 by the large amount of black on the breasts of the former, but I 

 fail to distinguish birds of the year by any external characters. 

 Indeed, the only noteworthy variation seems to be an occasional 

 increase in the black on the chest of the females, a tendency 

 toward the plumage of the male not infrequently noticed in vari- 

 ous birds. 



€aloarins pictus (Swains.)— Smith's Lougspur. 



One male secured June 11, 1898, presents no peculiarities. 

 Wing measures 8.58 ins. 

 Passerina nivalis (Linn.)— Suowflake. 



A series of forty -three specimens, all from Pt. Barrow, except 

 three immature birds taken on King's Island. These correspond 

 excellently with a series of Greenland birds obtained on the Peary 

 expeditions, and now in th3 collection of the Academy, and show 

 no tendency whatever toward P. nivalis townsendi Ridgw., of the 

 Aleutian Islands. 



Of nine breeding males, taken May 3 to June 11, 1898, six are 

 nearly uniform in coloration, the heads being pure white, and the 

 interscapulum with only slight whitish edgings, these having practi- 

 cally disappeared in the latest specimen in the series. In none of 

 these is there any trace of brown or rusty tints, though the remain- 

 ing three show this to a varying degree. No. 853, May 3 — the 

 earliest specimen — exhibits shght rusty tips to the feathers of the 

 head and the innermost wing coverts, as well as a spot of rusty 

 on each side of the breast. In No. 85G, May 6, the rusty is con- 

 fined to the wing coverts and the rump, while in 855, INIay 6, the 

 whole upper surface is suffused with rusty. The abrasion of the 

 tips in this bird seems to have been delayed for some reason, and 

 it forms a striking break in the series which otherwise illustrates 

 beautifully the gradual progress of this abrasion during the month 

 covered by the specimens. 



Two breeding females. May 30 and July 3, show practically no 

 trace of rusty tints; the later bird, though very much worn, show.s 

 no indication of molt. 




32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Only five adult males illustrate the molt, and the early fall 

 plumage. One of these (302, August 21) is in the midst of the 

 molt, six'new primaries are full grown and the others of varying 

 lengths, the old ones being all shed, the old secondaries still 

 remain, while the tertials and nearly all the body feathers are new. 

 Three specimens, taken August 26, and one September 4, are in 

 full fall plumage, the remains of the sheath on the outermost 

 primary being the only sign of molt. 



Nine females are in full fall plumage, of which four (August 26 

 (2), September 4 and September 11) retain remains of the sheath 

 on the base of the outermost primary, while the rest (August 30 

 (2) and September 4 (3)) show no trace of it, and may be birds 

 of the year. 



Eighteen unquestionably immature birds illustrate the changes 

 from the nestling to the full fall j)lumage. 



Five nestlings, July 10, Admiralty Bay, were collected to show 

 the progress of plumage grdwth. The youngest is quite white 

 doAvn the centre of the abdomen and brownish on the sides, the 

 older birds exhibit a buffy suffusion over the whole lower surface. 

 The neosoptiles on all are dull plumbeous. 



Three males from King's Island (July 23) are in full juvenal 

 plumage, though in two of them the tail is not fully grown. Four 

 specimens (August 15, 21, 24, September 3) illustrate the progress 

 of the postjuvenal molt on the back and rump, while in two others, 

 August 21 and September 3, it is completed. 



Of two immature females taken August 14, one is beginning to 

 molt, while the other has finished, and the same is true of two 

 secured August 21. 



In examining this series, I discovered that the primary coverts 

 were an excellent index to the sex and age of the bird, as they are 

 always white in the male — even in the fledgling — and dull black 

 in the female. Young males always have a spot of black on the 

 tip of each featlier, the pure white feathei*s replacing them at the 

 first annual molt. By this means we can separate the male and 

 female fledglings, and distinguish the males of one year from the 

 older individuals in the spring-breeding series. 

 Acanthis homemannii exilipes (Coues)— lloary Redpoll. 



A series of sixteen specimens taken June 18-26 exhibits very 

 little individual variation. One male is bright rosy pink over the 




1900. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 33 



whole breast and down the sides, as well as on the rump, but the 

 othei-s, both males and females, present a very uniform apj^earance. 

 Unfortunately, none were secured in the molt. 

 Ammodramus sandwichensis alandinus (Bonap.)— Western Savanna Sparrow. 



Six breeding specimens, taken June 7 to July 27, and three in 

 winter plumage, August 26 and 27, illustrate this species. None 

 of them show any trace of molt. 

 Zonotrichia leucophrys nuttalli Ridgw.— Nuttall's Sparrow. 



One female specimen, secured June 10, 1898, is typical in ever}' 

 way. Wing measure 2.90 ins. 

 Dendroica coronata (Linn.)— Myrtle Warbler. 



One male obtained from a native near Pt. Tangent, June 3, 

 1898. 

 Budytes flavus leucostriatas (Horn.)— Siberian Yellow Wagtail. 



One adidt male obtained June 11, 1898, a young bird just com- 

 pleting the molt into the winter plumage, and another young, August 

 8, 1898. 

 HylocicMa alicise (Baird)— Gray-cheeked Thrush. 



An adult female, found dead on the ice near Pt. Tangent, May 

 27, 1898, and a male secured June 10, 1898, at Pt. Barrow. 

 The latter is in exceedingly worn plumage, the ends of the prima- 

 ries where they project successively one beyond the other being so 

 bleached that the pattern of the covering feather is clearly marked 

 on each. 



MAMMALS. 



Twenty species of ]\Iammals are represented in the collection by 

 855 specimens. Seventeen of these are given in Murdoch's paper, 

 though the nomenclature varies considerably. Of the other eight 

 mentioned by that author, the Red Fox, Wolverine, Barren - 

 ground Bear and Mountain Sheep Avere given on the basis of skins, 

 etc., in possession of the Eskimos, and were admittedly not ob- 

 tained at Pt. Barrow, while Elephas was of course fossil. The 

 other species were the Ribbon Seal, Narwhal, and Killer Whale. 

 Of these no specimens are in the Mcllhenny collection. 



Three other species were, however, secured, which ai"e appar- 

 ently reported for the first time from Point Barrow, the Fur Seal, 

 Least Weasel and Canada Lynx. 

 3 




34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900- 



Balaena mysticetus Linn.— Bowhead Whale. 

 Portions preserved iu formaline. 



Delphinapterus leucas (Pallas)— White Whale. 



One skeleton and ten skulls, one an embryo. Mr. Mcllhenny's 

 measurements show the average length of males to be 15 ft. 3 ins. 

 (ext. 16.4-12.1), and of females 12 ft. 11 ins. (ext. 13.9-11.7). 

 Eangifer arcticus (Rich.)— Barren-ground Caribou. 



A series of twenty-four of these animals was secured ; three 

 skeletons, eight skins with skulls and thirteen additional skulls. 



Some of the horns are in the velvet, which is dark blackish brown, 

 with scattered white hairs near the basal jDortion. 



The youngest examples have straight or slightly incurved 

 "spike" horns eight to eleven inches long. The next has the 

 horns incurved, thirteen inches long (chord measurement) with a 

 forward tine six inches long near the base. Other horns of the same 

 size are slightly forked at the tip with the forward tine also some- 

 times forked ; while one specimen has the tip of one horn some- 

 what flattened. Another specimen slightly larger has a well- 

 developed fork to the main horns, while the adults vary very 

 much, 



A comparison of this series with a number of skulls from Green- 

 land fails to show any tangible difference either in the characters 

 of the cranium or the antlers No doubt there are satisfactory 

 differences in the coloration, but lack of skins of the Greenland 

 animal jireveats me from making comparisons. 



In color the adult skins do not vary to any great extent ; No. 

 299, 9, March, 1897, is nearly white on the neck and head, the 

 ears and portions of the face and top of head are brownish gray, 

 the middle of the back from shoulders to rump is Ijrownish gray, 

 as well as the legs, sides, under parts, tail and liuttocks white, a 

 well-defined dark, narrow lateral baud about three inches from 

 the dark dorsal area. Feet white, the brown color running down 

 the middle of each toe to within an inch of the hoof, but nmch 

 paler than elsewhere on the legs. No. 292, 9, March 15, 1897, 

 is in much fuller coat, with hair much longer and everywhere 

 lighter, owing to a "frosting" of white hairs. The lateral 

 stripes are not so well defined, and the feet are pure white. The 

 horns of this specimen are in the velvet. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35 



Two of the calves are uniform, dark smoky gray, while the 

 third is varied with white on the rump, face and legs. 

 Lepus tschuktscliorum (Nordquist.)— Alaskan Polar Hare. 



One skeleton of a male obtained April, 1898, on the Ikpikpun 

 river. 



"Length, 28.5 ins; hind foot, 7.5; tail, 4,62; ear, 4.25." 

 Skull, total length, 112mm; greatest breadth, 57; greatest breadth 

 of nasals, 24. 



Ovibos moschatus (Zimm.)— Musk Ox. 



One weather-beaten skull picked up on the tundra. 



Lemmus trimucronatus (Rich.)— Alaskan Lemming. 



Mr. Mcllhenny's magnificent series of 606 skins furnishes abun- 

 dant material for studying the variations in this species due to age 

 and season. 



Two points are at once noticeable upon arranging the specimens 

 according to dates of capture, first, that some young seem to be 

 born every month in the year, and second, that during the four 

 months (August to November) of the expedition's stay at Ft. 

 Barrow only young Lemmings (probably all born that year) were 

 obtained. The latter fact may be merely due to lack of knowledge 

 of the habits of the adults, but owing to the fact that such large 

 numbers of old ones were taken later on, and but few young, it 

 may have something to do with the erratic habits of these curious 

 rodents. The former fact is no doubt accountable for some of 

 the peculiar individual variations in pelage which are seen in the 

 series. 



Beginning our study of the series with the first that were obtained, 

 August, 1897, it will be convenient to consider them month by 

 month. 



Augmt. — Six specimens, all young, three to five inches long and 

 poorly haired, black and yellow hairs closely mingled over the 

 upper surface with a rufous patch on the rump, blackish under fur 

 everywhere showing through. Below bufl' with dark under fur 

 very conspicuous. 



September. — Fifty-four specimens, twenty -six like the above, 

 twelve younger (three to four inches long), grayer and less rufous, 

 some with only a trace of the latter tint. Sixteen show the trans- 

 formation from the dull reddish rumped pelage above described, 




36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



to a full long-haired pelage of bright yellow buff, brightest on the 

 rump and dusky on the head, below buff with the plumbeous under 

 fur nearly obscured. This I consider to be the regular first 

 winter pelage. Many of this series show the bright yellow-buff" 

 hairs about half -grown pushing up through the dull juvenal 

 pelage. 



October. — Twenty -two specimens. Three of the earliest (gray) 

 stage, eight of the next (red-rumped), and nine of the winter, 

 though many of the latter are not yet fully molted. Two others 

 are peculiar in being very gray aboye with no trace of the rufous 

 tint on the rump; they are, however, acquiring the yellow-buff" 

 winter pelage. One November specimen is similar and shows dis- 

 tinctly the new buff pelage coming in, though the old pelage is 

 very gray and like that of a very young individual. These speci- 

 mens were probably born very late in the season, and the juvenal 

 pelage never attained its full development, the molt to the winter 

 dress occurring much earlier in life than in those born in June or 

 July. 



November. — One specimen described above. 



December. — Three specimens, one like the above and two in full 

 winter pelage, though larger than any so far considered (i. e. , 5. 80 

 ins. long). 



January. — Eight specimens. Three young like those last de- 

 scribed, but farther advanced in the molt, and fiv^e in full winter 

 pelage, 



February. — Nine specimens. Three in absolutely first pelage, 

 gray, fur much longer and thicker than in summer-born young 

 (length 3.87 ins.). One larger individual molting, and five in 

 winter pelage, duller and more faded than early fall examples. 



March. — Twenty-three specimens. Eight small ones in first 

 pelage, similar to summer young, but rather paler and Avith 

 denser fur. Two molting and thirteen in adult winter pelage 

 (length 5.13-6.83 ins.). 



AjyrU. — Sixty-eight specimens. Three are well-grown young, 

 with a trace of the rufous rump patch. Sixty-one are iu winter 

 pelage or iu the spring molt, many of them very ragged with the 

 gray under fur exposed in places. Four have about completed the 

 molt. These have the hair shorter than winter specimens, and are 

 darker colored with the whole rump bright ferruginous. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 37 



May. — Two hundred and sixty-four specimens. Twenty are 

 young of various ages, some very small, the oldest showing distinctly 

 the accession of the rufous pelage on the rump, replacing the orig- 

 inal gray. Thirteen are in the red-rumped juvenal pelage, and 

 two hundred and thirty-one adults, some still in the ragged winter 

 pelage, some completely molted, and others in transition. 



Jiuie. — OnQ hundred and forty-eight specimens. Nine young 

 of various ages and one hundred and thirty -nine adults, nearly 

 all in fresh summer pelage. 



The four pelages of L. trhnucronatm that seem to l)e normal 

 are described in detail below, the colors being compared with 

 Kidgway's Nomenclature : 



1. The Gray young (No. 168, February 5). Hair brown, 

 slightly tinged with buff in the middle of the back, and with many 

 of the hairs tipped with black. Beneath paler. 



Length 97 mm. ; tail 12; hind foot 17. 



2. The Red-rumped young (No. 46, September 6). Hairs over 

 the anterior pai-t of the back and head raw umber and black finely 

 mingled, some with a golden lustre; rump and posterior parts 

 dark chestnut, sides pale tawny. Below cinnamon rufous, with the 

 gray under fur conspicuous. 



Length 124 mm.; tail 18; hind foot 17. 



3. Adult summer (No. 657, May 31). Forward part of body 

 russet and black very finely mingled, shading to very bright 

 chestnut almost hazel on rump, sides tawny ochraceous. Beneath 

 ochraceous buff. 



Length 155 mm. ; tail 24; hind foot 21. 



4. Adult winter (No. 161, January 27). x^nterior portions 

 €lay color with black hairs finely intermixed, rump and posterior 

 parts, ochraceous, below cream buff. 



Length 148 mm. ; tail 23; hind foot 22. 



Dicrostonyx hudsonius alascensis subsp. nov.— Alaskan Pied Lemming. 



The seasonal and individual variations in Dicrostonyx, as shown 

 below, is very great, and renders any division into geographical 

 races difiicult without extensive series from a number of localities. 

 The material before me, however, indicates that the form inhabiting 

 Alaska and the northwestern part of British America is separable 

 from the Dicrostonyx of Labrador, to which the name hudsonius 




38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



belongs. The type specimen (No. 821, Coll. E. A. Mcllhenny, 

 Pt. Barrow, Alaska, ? , June 8) may be described as follows : An- 

 terior portion of upper surface, rich chestnut, with whitish mottling 

 due to the light bases of the hairs showing through, rump blackish 

 and gray mottled with white,, a blackish median dorsal stripe 

 extending to the nose, face gray, ear patches strongly chestnut. 

 Sides and under parts strongly tinted with rusty, with chestnut 

 across the breast between the forelegs; feet white. 



D. huclsonius (three specimens in Coll. E. A. and O. Bangs, Ham- 

 ilton Inlet, Labrador, August 10-19, 1895) differs in its nearly uni- 

 form grizzled gray pelage, and almost total absence of chestnut, this 

 color appears only at the base of the fore legs, on the ear patches, 

 and as a slight tint on the sides of the body, but is nowhere as rich 

 as in alaseensis ; the feet are gray or blackish, instead of white, 

 and the under parts are darker. While it is quite probable that 

 the Labrador Lemming is subject to greater variation than shown 

 by the material before me, it also seems evident that it is a much 

 grayer animal at all times than the Alaskan form. The grayest 

 specimen of alaseensis has more chestnut coloring than any of 

 Mr. Bangs' series or Labrador specimens in the National ^luseum 

 collection, and the black and gray mottling is much coarser. 



There is no tangible difference in the skulls of the two forms. 

 Their measurements follow: 



Length. Tail. Hind Foot. 



D. hudsonim, No. 4,166 (Bangs), Hamil- 

 ton Inlet, Labrador, d', 150 mm. 8 21 



D. h. alaseensis. Type, No. 824 (Mc- 

 llhenny), Pt. Barrow, Alaska, d", . . 132 18 

 D. h. alaseensis (largest spec), No. 496 



(Mcllhenny), Pt. Barrow, Alaska, . . 165 21 19 

 A series of forty-eight specimens u'as obtained, which vary 

 considei'ably in size, but are all apparently adult. 



October and November (October 11, November 3, November 

 13). — These three specimens are decidedly white. The fii'st two 

 show traces of the dark summer pelage everywhere umler the long 

 silky winter coat and on the back of the neck, ears and top of 

 the head, the old pelage still remains intact. The last specimen is 

 entirely white, but with a pinkish tinge pi'oduced by the partially 

 covered chestnut hairs remaining from the summer coal. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39 



Januai-y and February. — Two specimens, both pure white with 

 long silky hair. 



March. — Seven specimens. Five pure white and two showing 

 the beginning of the spring molt. The latter are white, with a 

 general pinkish tinge produced by the dark hairs of the new 

 summer coat; two have dusky lines between the shoulders, and 

 one has well-defined pinkish bands from the eyes to the rump where 

 they join and continue as one band to the tail, there are also rusty 

 spots at the base of the fore legs. 



April. — Ten specimens. Four are pure white, and one white 

 with a dusky area on the head and across the occiput, ending in a 

 longitudinal stripe on the forepart of the back. These dark 

 marks are apparently not produced by the ingrowing summer hair. 

 The other five are beginning the molt though the prevailing color 

 is still white. 



May. — Sixteen specimens. One pure white (May 26), one with 

 several round spots of chestnut on the back of the neck, but other- 

 wise white, evidently injured late in winter or early in spring, the 

 new hair coming in dark. Two others have the centre of the 

 back more or less dark, with a well-defined median dark stripe. 

 Ten others are white beneath and on the sides, gray on the head, 

 rump and middle of back, rest of upper surface rusty, inclining to 

 chestnut, with a dark median stripe. These average 132 mm. in 

 length, and are dull in appearance compared with June specimens, 

 probably due to scattered short white hairs in the pelage. 



Two large ones, average length 160 mm., are much more chest- 

 nut than the above series, one is in complete summer pelage, the 

 other is white below with the whole posterior part of the body veiled 

 with the long white winter haii's. 



June. — Ten specimens all in summer pelage, though varying 

 much individually. All are rusty beneath with the gray under 

 fur conspicuous. Above the normal pelage appears to be mottled 

 chestnut and white on the anterior half of the body, the white 

 being confined to the basal part of the hair and more conspicuous 

 in some than in others, posterior half iron gray or black, with 

 more or less white bases to the haire, face gray, nose black, feet 

 and tail white. On some specimens there is a median black stripe. 

 The most extreme specimen has a complete median stripe from 

 nose to tail, and the whole back mottled with black and gray, 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



giving it a grizzled appearance, while the haii-s over the shoulders 

 and on the ears are chestnut, and a few on the forepart of the 

 back are chestnut tipped. In size this June series averages 137 

 mm., the extremes being 165 and 112, The hea\^' claws on the 

 fore feet are well developed on all of the series, except three of the 

 June specimens. 



On THE Relationship of North American Lemmings. 



The number of species of American Lemmings of the genera 

 Lemmus and Dicrostonyx and their proper nomenclature has long 

 been an unsettled question. 



In the present connection it occurred to me that an opportunity 

 was offered to throw some light on the subject, and through the 

 kindness of the authorities of the U. S. National Museum, the 

 American Museum of Natural History and of Mr. Outram Bangs, 

 I now have before me a series of 129 specimens in addition to the 

 magnificent series of 654 skins secured by ]N[r. Mcllhenny. 



Owing to the great variation in these animals due to age and 

 season the scries is still insufficient to satisfactorily settle all the 

 points at issue, though much is made clear. 



The American specimens of Lemmus have been variously referred 

 by writers to L. lemmus, L. oben.ti-s and L. helvolus. 



The first two are respectively European and Siberian animals, 

 and, as can be seen at a glance, are wholly different from any 

 American Lemmings as well as from each other. 



Leaving these out of the discussion, we have to consider the 

 names proposed for the American animals. There are, I believe, 

 only four: 



Arvicola trimucronata Rich. 



Parry's Second Voyage, App. (1825), p. 309. 



Type locality, Point Lake, lat. 05° N. 



Arvicola helvolvs Rich. 



Fauna Boreali-Americana (lSxJ9), p. 1'28. 



Type locality, Alpine Swamps in lat. 5(>°. Evidently near the 

 headwaters of Peace i-iver. 



Myodes nigripes True. 



Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. xvii, Xo. 799, April 26, 1394. 



Type locality, St. George's Island, Alaska. 




1900.] ^•ATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41 



Myodes alMgularis Wagner, 



Schreber's Siiugeth. Suppl. (1843), vol. 3, p. 602. 



Several specimens in the IT. S. Nat. Mus. from the Arctic coast 

 are practically topotypes of L. trimucronatus, the type locality of 

 which is Point Lake. 



These are identical with Pt. Barrow specimens of similar age, 

 and Richardson's description, which is of an adult female animal, 

 can be well matched by specimens in the Mcllhenny series. 



This being the oldest of the three names proposed, no difficulty 

 presents itself in applying it to the Lemmtis of the Arctic coast. 



We have now to consider the status of the two other described 

 forms. Richardson's description of L. helvolus is not sufficiently 

 detailed to judge of its relationship with the more northern form. 

 I have before me, however, a specimen from the collection of the 

 Amer. Mus. of Nat. Hist., obtained by A. J. Stone in the Cassiar 

 Mts., directly west of the region where Drummond collected the 

 type of L. helvolus. This specimen is, unfortunately, not fidly 

 adult, and it is difficult to decide as to its relationship with the 

 Arctic form. I find no apparent cranial differences between it and 

 specimens of the same size from Alaska, while in color it is rather 

 yellower than any of the Ai'ctic series. Without more material it 

 is impossible to say whether the two are identical or not, though 

 it seems quite likely that the southern form -will prove subspecifi- 

 cally different in which case it will stand as Lemmus trimucronatus 

 helvolus Rich. 



Lemmus nignpes True, is an island form restricted to St. George's 

 Island. Though generally regarded as quite distinct, the large Pt. 

 Barrow series before me contains specimens that come very close to 

 the island form. The latter are, however, darker and have blacker 

 feet than specimens of the same size from the mainland, and are 

 apparently distinct, though very closely related. I have seen no 

 specimens of L. nigripes which approach in size or color the old 

 adults of L. trivmcronatus. The great variation in L. trimu- 

 cronatus, which presumably exists also in the other forms just 

 mentioned, has been already described at length; and it is now 

 quite evident that several specimens in the National ]Museum col- 

 lection which, from their difterence in size and coloration, appeared 

 to represent distinct* species, are really identical. L. albigularis 



*Cf. True, Report of Fur Seal Investigations, 1S96-7, Part iii, p. 347. 




42 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Waga., is apparently a synouym of L. trimucronatus, but if the 

 Sitkan animal proves separable this name is available. 



The species of Lemmm befox'e me in aduU pelage may be distin- 

 guished as follows : 



Anterior part of back as well as whole front of head jet black; 

 rest of upper surface, including area just above ears, tawny 

 ochraceous L. lemmn-^. 



Head gray, body tawny ochraceous to chestnut, tvith a longitu- 

 dinal black stripe from nose to shoulders, beneath yellowish white. 



L. ohe)i<is. 



Upper surface russet passing to chestnut on rump, no median stripe, 

 below ochraceous buft. Feet gray or white. L. trimucronatu-'^. 



Similar to the last but much duller and browner, with the feet black. 



L. nif/ripes. 



Our American Dicrostonyx has generally been referred to the 

 European D torquatus Pallas, but while certainly quite closely 

 related to this form, I regard it as probably distinct. Unfortu- 

 nately, no skins of (he Old World animal are available for com- 

 parison, and I have only been able to examine one skull from 

 Petschara, Russia, kindly loaned by ^Ir. Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., 

 from which no very satisfactory deductions can be made. 



For the American animal only one name has been proposed: 

 hudso)iius of Pallas, while Richardson proposed r/ roenlaudicus for 

 the Dicrostonyx of Greenland. 



I am inclined to think that the characters upon which this last 

 form was based are due to age and season, but it is quite likely 

 that the animal may prove distinct, in which case Richardson's 

 name will be available. The Greenland material that I have is 

 all alcoholic, and the specimens do not seem fully adult, so that no 

 satisfactory comparison is possible except as to cranial characters, 

 and here I find no apparent difference. 



The three specimens of Dicrostonyx kindly loaned by ^Ir. Bangs 

 are from Labrador and consequently topotypes of D. hud^onim. 

 They, as well as other Labrador specimens before me, ai'e uni- 

 formly grayer and more finely mottled than Alaskan examples, as 

 already explained, and in consequence I have proposed to separate 

 the western form as D. h. ala^-^censis. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43 



Spermophilus empetra (Pall^)— Parry's Spennophile. 



Forty-four skius of this animal were obtained. Four June 

 specimens are pale and somewhat ragged, with the thick woolly 

 under fur rather conspicuous, while two others taken late in the 

 same month are darker, brighter and distinctly rusty beneath. 

 These latter are evidently in the fresh summer pelage. Four July 

 specimens are similar while two young individuals are very gray, 

 with the back obscurely mottled, but without distinct white spots. 

 The pelage is very thin. 



The August series includes eight normal adults, three young and 

 one large adult, Avhich is remarkably gray below and dusky above, 

 with scarcely any trace of rusty tints. A similar specimen was 

 obtained in September, but the rest of the autumn series of 

 eighteen specimens are normal (September to November 12). One 

 albino obtained in November, 1895, by Charles Brower, is in the 

 collection. 

 Sorez personatus streatori Merriam— Streator's Shrew. 



Three specimens which measure as follows: 



Length. 



71. 9, September 16, 1897, . . . 86;mm. 



72. 9, September 17, 1897, ... 9l' 

 159. d", October, 1897, 88 



Odobsenus obesus (Illig).— Pacific Walrus. 



Two skeletons and one skull. 

 Callotaria ursina (Linn.)— Fur Seal. 



i One female, obtained at Pt. Barrow, August 17, 1897, meas- 

 uring 48 ins. in length. 

 Erignathus barbatus (Fabr.)— Bearded Seal. 



One male specimen prepared as a skeleton was secured Septem- 

 ber 7, 1897. It measured " 88 ins. in length, hind foot 20.5 ins., 

 greatest girth 60 ins." (Mcllhenuy). 

 Fboca largha Pallas— Pallas' Seal. 



Four skulls and two skeletons of this seal were secured. The 

 cranial and dental peculiarities already pointed out by Dr. Mer- 

 riam hold good throughout the series, and the species is certainly 

 distinct from P. vitulina, which it represents on the Pacific coast of 

 the continent, 



Mr. McEhenny's measurements of the length of his specimens 




44 PROCEEDIN^GS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



are as follows: No. 22, 59 ins. ; No. 30, 48 ius. ; No. 31, 69 ins. ; 

 No. 32, 61 ins. ; No. 33, 56 ins. ; No. 54, 59 ins. 



Phoca foetida Fabr.— Ringed Seal. 



Twenty-eight skulls and five skeletons of the Ringed Seal are in 

 the collection, together with several skins. A comparison of the 

 skulls with a series from the coast of Greenland fails to show any 

 tangible diflferences. 



Thalarctos maritimus (Phipps)— Polar Bear. 

 One skeleton and five skulls. 



Putorius arcticus Merriam— Tundra Weasel. 



Four skins of this species were obtained: 



115. cf, October 9, 1897, . . 



150. cf, December 28, 1897, . 



173. c?, February 11, 1898, . . 



719. c^, June 7, 1898, . . . 



The first three are white, the last one brown, with the belly pale 

 yellow slightly tinged ochraceous, (a mingling of the primrose and 

 Naples yellow of Ridgway's Nomenclature of Colors). 



The deep black tip to the tail measures 67.2 mm. 



The skull of No. 115 measures as follows: Basilar length 44; 

 mastoid breadth 22.2; breadth of po.storbital proces.ses 15; orbital 

 breadth before postorb. proc. 11.8; orbital breadth beliind do. 11; 

 last molar to foramen magnum 29; palate 18. 



Putorius rixosus eskimo subsp. nov. 



Five specimens of this interesting little animal were secured and 

 an additional skull showing the milk dentition. The measure- 

 ments are as follows: 



827. d", June 21, 1898, 



828. d", June 25, 1898, 

 826. ?, June 17, 1898, 



829. ?, June 14, 1898, 

 848. 9, July 25, 1898, 



When Mr. Outram Bangs and Dr. Merriam prepared their 

 excellent monographs of American "Weasels, there was no good 

 series of Least "Weasels from the far North, and it is therefore not 




1900,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 45 



surprising that the present form was not recognized. On first 

 examination I took it to be P. rixosus, but a comparison with the 

 type which was kindly loaned by Mr. Bangs showed at once that 

 it belonged to a well-marked race, though evidently allied to that 

 form. Mr. Bangs has since compared some of the above speci- 

 mens with other examples of P. rixosus in his collection, and con- 

 firmed my views. He further states that it needs no comparison 

 with P. nivalis of northern Europe, though lack of specimens 

 leaves us uncertain as to what its relation to the Least Weasel of 

 Siberia may be. As no form has yet been described from the latter 

 country, however, no complication in nomenclature will result. 



The type specimen of P. rixosus eskimo, No. 848, Coll. E. A. 

 Mcllhenny, $, July 25, 1898, Pt. Barrow, Alaska, is brown, 

 with a tinge of reddish, being intermediate between Prout's brown 

 and walnut brown of Ridgway's Nomenclature of Colors. It is 

 much duller than P. rixostis, which is " burnt umber to Vandyke 

 brown." The other specimens are still duller than the type, the 

 extreme specimen, Xo. 826, being almost drab.* These are per- 

 haps younger individuals. P. rixosus eskimo has a shorter tail 

 than true P. rixosus, and rather larger feet. 



The skull has the same strong sagittal ridge as P. rixosus, but is 

 in every way larger. The measurements in m^n. are appended : 



A specimen of this race in pure white winter pelage is in the 

 collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 

 obtained at Bethel, Alaska, by J. H. Romig. 



* Cf. Kidgway's Nomenclature. 




46 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1900. 



Canis occidentalis Rich.— Timber Wolf. 



One skeleton (female) and one skull (male) were obtained, the 

 latter from some distance inland. The female measured as follows: 

 No. 220. ?, March, 1898. Length 1,550 mm. ; tail 430; hind foot 

 298; ear 126; girth 852; height 765. 



While I am not at all prepared to consider the relationships of 

 the large Wolves of North America, I append a table of measure- 

 ments of skulls in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences, 

 Philadelphia, and of the two Alaskan specimens above mentioned : 



"Vulpes lagopus Linn.— Arctic Fox. ' 



Seventeen specimens were ol)taiued, six skins, four with skulls; 

 two skeletons and nine separate skulls. 



Five adult specimens measured as follows in mm. : 



Length. TaiL Hind Foot. 



142. ?, November 1, 1897, 



143. d, November 1, 1897, 

 153. cf, December, 1897, 



830. d, June 27, 1898, . 



831. 9, June 27, 1898, . 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 47 



A pup, No. 832, 6', Juiie 21, 1898, measures about 300 mm. 

 in leDgth. It is of a general plumbeous color, lighter beneath \vith 

 a dark dorsal area spreading out on the flanks. The face and feet 

 have a number of scattered white hairs. The two summer adults 

 are in very ragged pelage, the female is almost entirely covered 

 vrith a thick, somewhat matted fur like coat, and here and there 

 all over the body are scattered long white hairs left from the win- 

 ter coat. The full summer hair seems to be only just appearing. 

 The male specimen is more advanced and the dark hairs of the 

 summer pelage are conspicuous. The general color of both speci- 

 mens is the same, though the tints of the male are brighter. 



The whole head above and below and a broad dorsal baud are dull 

 brown (between the seal and clove brown of Ridgway), this color 

 also spreads over the flanks and shoulders, and down the outside of 

 the legs to their extremities as well as on the upper surface of the 

 tail. The sides, belly and inside of the legs are dull, bufFy white, 

 passing to vinaceous on the breast and along the edge of the 

 dorsal band. The tips of the ears are white and a number of 

 white hairs are scatterd over the face. The brown hairs \vhich are 

 appearing in the wooly j^elage of the Ijack are tipped and ringed 

 with bufl'. 



The winter specimens are in pure white, very long pelage; at the 

 end of the tail the gray under fur is visible, but elsewhere it can 

 only be seen by separating the white hairs to their very bases. 



Compared Avith a series of Arctic foxes fi-om Greenland, the 

 skulls collected by Mr. Mcllheuny show conclusively that they 

 belong to a diflerent geographic race. They are larger and heavier 

 than the Greenland specimens, and the audital bulla? are more 

 divergent posteriorly. 



Messrs. Hamilton and Bonhote have recently {Ann. Mag. Nat. 

 Hid., April, 1898, p. 287) separated the Arctic Fox of Spitz- 

 bergen from that of the European continent as T''. /. spitzber- 

 geneiisi?, and associate with it the Greenland form. From lack of 

 material they were unable to decide upon the relationship of the 

 American continental animal, though they suggested that it would 

 prove identical with that of Europe. 



Being without Old "World material for comparison, I am equally 

 unable to settle the point, but from size alone I should eudoi*se 

 their views. 




48 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1900. 



The statement that both foi*ms occur in Greenland seems very 

 unlikely, and I should rather suggest that the large " Davis Strait ' '' 

 examples came from the western side of the strait. The measure- 

 ments of the Alaskan skulls and a series of Greenland specimens in 

 the Academy's collection give the following averages: 



Lynx canadensis mollipilosus subsp. uov.— Arctic Lynx. 



A single male Lynx was obtained at Wainwright Inlet, Pt. 

 Barrow, November, 1897, which seems to be subspecifically differ- 

 ent from the true Lynx canadensis, and may be described as 

 follows: 



Type No. 141. Coll. E. A. Mcllhenuy. Browner and less gray 

 than true Lynx canadensis, with a very dense, soft, woolly pelage. 

 Skull decidedly narrower, higher and raoi'e arched than L. cana- 

 densis, and much more constricted across the froutals and between 

 the orbits, the postorbital processes are conspicuously more slender. 



Measurements. — Total length 1.040 mm.; tail vertebra 130; 

 hind foot 260 (approx. ). 



The skull measurements compared Avith those of true L. caua- 

 densis and an intermediate specimen from British Columbia in the 

 collection of Mr. Outram Bangs are given in the following table : 




1900. J 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



49 



This is evidently a northwestern form of L. canadensis, and 

 extends southward to British Columbia, as the specimen above 

 referred to from Sumas, B. C, is much more nearly allied to it 

 than to true L. canadensis. Alberta specimens in Mr. Bangs* 

 collection, on the other hand, are nearer to L. canadensis, though 

 showing a slight tendency toward L. moUipilosus. I am particularly 

 indebted to Mr. Outram Bangs for his courtesy in examining and 

 comparing the Alaskan specimen, and in placing in my hands a 

 description and measurements of his British Columbia specimen, as 

 well as in loaning his fine series of Lynx skulls. 




50 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



A DESCRIPTION OF MICROBDELLA BIANNULATA WITH ESPECIAL 

 REGARD TO THE CONSTITUTION OF THE LEECH SOMITE. 



BY J. PERCY MOORE. 



Perhaps the most noteworthy of a number of annelids collected 

 in the mountain region of North Carolina during the summer of 

 1898 is the little leech about to be described. The form appears 

 to be rare, as it was met with but once. On this occasion an even 

 dozen were found attached in a close cluster to the axillary and 

 pectoral regions of a large Desmognathus nigra. As the morjiho- 

 logical interest attaching to these leeches was at once recognized 

 (though unfortunately not until all had been killed), special efforts 

 were made to add to the su])ply. Notwithstanding that several 

 hundreds of the salamander host were examined, the examples first 

 collected remain unique. The locality is a mountain stream on 

 the Yonahlossee road, at an elevation exceediug 3,500 feet. In 

 about one-half or more of the specimens the gastric c?eca were 

 distended witli blood, apparently derived from the salamander on 

 which they were found. During life they were sluggish, and 

 remained huddled together in a contracted state, making i)ut little 

 attempt to creep about or even to extend themselves. 



Falling naturally within the limits of the Glo'<-<lphoiiid<T, this 

 is, I thiuk, the smallest species of that family which has been 

 discovered, the length of sexually mature individuals in a half- 

 extended condition being only from four to five millimeters. But 

 of much greater interest is the, up to the present time, entirely 

 novel structure of the complete somites, none of which present 

 more than two well-defined external rings aud whose internal 

 relations are such as to elucidate several points afiecting the value 

 and limitations of the typical leech somite. The Chinese leech 

 Torix mirus Blauchard ('98) is scarcely larger than the salaman- 

 der leech and api)roaches it very closely in the external structure 

 of the somites, which are biannulate dorsaUy and triannulate 

 ventrally. Nothing is yet known of its internal anatomy. A fur- 




1900.] PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 51 



ther studv of Torix may render unnecessary the establishment of 

 the following genus: 



MICROBDELLA gen. nov. 



The complete somites each consist externally of two annuli, a 

 smaller posterior, and a larger anterior, which bears the metameric 

 sensillae on its posterior part and the nephridiopores on its anterior 

 part. There are five pairs of testes, of which the last is enlarged. 

 Intersegmental septa are well developed between many of the 

 somites. 

 Microbdella biannulata sp. nov. PI. VI. 



Deserijjtion. — The body is strongly depressed and sharp at the 

 margins, though less so than in many parasitic species of Glossi- 

 phonia, etc. The suckers, and more especially the posterior one, 

 are large even for a species of parasitic habit. Measurements are. 

 of no great value, as the proportions vary so much with the degree 

 of extension or contraction or according to the amount of food 

 contained in the stomach, but the specimen figured, which had the 

 cseca only moderately filled, and was about two-thirds extended, 

 had the following measurements : 



Length 6.3 mm. 



Greatest width (XV) 2 mm. 



Greatest depth (XVII) .6 mm. 



Diameter of acetabulum 1.4 mm. 



Of course the species may reach a larger size than that attained 

 by the type specimens, as among leeches sexual maturity is no 

 indication of full growth, but if these specimens were found in 

 their normal habitat this seems improbable. 



The large size of the posterior sucker (PI. VI, figs. 1, 2 and 3) 

 is an excellent adaptation for retaining a hold on the slippery skin 

 of a salamander, and the region of the body to which the leeches 

 were found fixed is that which would aftord them almost the best 

 protection, and from which they would be least likely to be swept 

 away when the host is actively swimming or Avhen it burrows 

 amongst shingle and pebbles, as is the habit of its kind. The 

 anterior sucker is not expanded laterally, but its posterior margin 

 is largely free and mobile (figs. 2 and 3). 



The small mouth is situated in the anterior part of the ventral 

 surface of the sucker, apparently in somite II (fig. 2, m). Al- 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



most immediately dorsal to it, and in the posterior half of somite 

 III, is a conspicuous median spot of black (really dark brown 

 when strongly illuminated in sections) pigment in which the two 

 eyes are embedded close together (figs. 1 and 3, e). So intimately 

 united are they that they can be resolved only in good section?. 

 They have the typical structure. The male pore is between somites 

 XI and XII. This opening (figs. 2 and 3, c?) is large and con- 

 spicuous and is frequently rendered still more obvious by the 

 partial eversion of the atrium. The much smaller female pore 

 (figs. 2 and 3, 9 ) lies in somite XII in a line with the furrow 

 which separates the major and minor anuuli, although the furrow 

 itself is not usually continued so far onto the ventral surface. In 

 the usual position on the dorsal sui'face just above the acetabvdura, 

 the rather large anus is situated; it lies behind or partly within 

 somite XXVIT (figs. 1 and 3, o). 



Sixteen pairs of nephridial pores (figs. 2 and 5, njo) have been 

 definitely located on the ventral surfaces of the corresponding 

 number of somites from VII to XXII inclusive. A seventeenth 

 pair was sought, but not found, on somite XXIII, but owing 

 to the proximity of this region to the acetabulum the integument is 

 here much wrinkled, and they might readily have been overlooked 

 in the several specimens examined. In the middle region of the 

 body the pores are distinctly visible in surface views, and in sec- 

 tions the entire series can be readily traced, although the vesicles 

 are so small that they rarely extend through more than two or 

 three transverse, or twice that many longitudinal sections. 

 Their position in the somite is of greater interest. The two pores 

 of each pair are separated in the example figured by a distance 

 which is approximately equal to one-half of the entire width of 

 the body, but this distance necessarily varies with the shape of 

 the body resulting from the greater or less distension of the gas- 

 tric Cicca. Antero -posteriorly they lie a little cephalad of the 

 middle of the major annulus, their position being often marked by 

 a very faint groove, which may extend nearly the width of the body. 



The typical complete somites (figs. 1, 2 and 3) of this genus, as 

 previously stated, consist of t^vo distinct aunuli, but these are gen- 

 erally sharply defined only on the dorsal surface and even here the 

 furrows which separate them are much less deep than those sepa- 

 rating successive somites. Yentrally the interaunular furrows are 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53 



complete ou a few of the anterior somites (VI to VIII, or there- 

 abouts) only (fig. 2). Elsewhere they are much interrupted or 

 extend only a little way mesiad from the margin. Not infre- 

 quently in longitudinal sections of contracted specimens a slight 

 depression indicates the presence of traces of a faint furrow sug- 

 gestive of incipient subdivision of the major annulus. This may 

 occur not on the ventral side only, as noted above, but also dor- 

 sally, and always anterior to the line t>f sensillse. The complete 

 somites are, however, always strictly biannulate above and in most 

 cases practicaHy uniannulate below. 



The metameric sensillre (figs. 1 and 2) are rather small, and their 

 arrangement could be worked out only partially in surface views of 

 alcoholic specimens; the gaps were completed after the study of 

 sections. In figs. 1 and 3, the rows of small circles, which do not 

 accurately indicate the relative sizes of the several sense organs, 

 show the typical distribution as finally determined. On fig. 2 

 those sensillse only are shown which wei-e seen in a single surface 

 view, and they are i*epresented as too large. They Avere found 

 in sections in corresponding positions of other somites, but were not 

 plotted. The dorsal median and inner lateral series are the best 

 developed and, in fact, the sensilla? of these rows are the only ones 

 which certainly have the xypical structure, the others very fre- 

 quently lacking the clear vitreous cells. It is worthy of comment 

 in connection with Whitman's suggestion of the homology of these 

 vitreous cells with epidermal glands that cells of the latter charac- 

 ter are frequently associated with these smaller sensilhe. The six 

 <lorsal sensillae occur constantly in all of the material examined, 

 but the marginal organs are sometimes missing from one or more 

 of the middle somites, and constantly so from somites I, II and 

 III, and from two or three of the preanal somites, at least they 

 could not be detected in sections. Of the small and inconspicu- 

 ous ventral sensillie, but two series were found on each side, whose 

 position suggests the median and outer lateral. They are not 

 entirely constant, even on the middle body region, one or more not 

 infrequently being absent from a somite. The twelve sensill* of 

 •each somite form a ring, the two halves of which are widely sepa- 

 rated by a median interspace which is somewhat wider ventrally 

 than dorsally. This ring encircles the major annulus half-way 

 between the nephridiopores and the posterior margin of the anuu- 




54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



lus. There are nineteen (Nos. V to XXIII inclusive) complete 

 somites of the character just described, except, of course, that 

 the first two and apparently the last lack nephridiopores. 



Somites of a simpler character are found at both the anterior 

 and posterior ends of the animal. At the anterior end they are 

 related to the sucker (figs, 1 and 3). Somite V, the first of the 

 biannulate ones, is much crowded ventrally by the posterior mar- 

 gin of the sucker, which is constituted of somite IV. The sub- 

 division of the latter somite into rings is evident on the dorsal 

 aspect only, Avhere the shallow furrow fades and disappears a short 

 distance from the median line, and is very faint at the margins. 

 The line of sensillse is placed much closer to the middle of the 

 whole somite than is the case in the biannulate somites and the 

 marginal pair is absent. In somite III all trace of subdivision into 

 rings is wanting, the inner and outer lateral sensillae lie exactly 

 along the middle of the one simple ring, while the median pair 

 have risen to the importance of eyes, which have moved to the 

 posterior margin of the somite. Somite II is also a simple undi- 

 vided ring, as much narrower than III as the latter is narrower 

 than IV. Its anterior bounding furrow is so shallow as to sepa- 

 rate it only imperfectly from the prostomium. But two pairs of 

 distinct sensilhe remain on this somite, being those of the inner 

 lateral and median series. 



On the prostomium (figs. 1 and 2) anterior to somite II is found 

 a pair of median dorsal sensilhe which are the only ones which 

 can certainly be referred to the segmental series. This region has, 

 therefore, been designated as somite I, a ^'ulue which was first 

 determined for it by Apathy ('88), and later, and on better 

 grounds, by Whitman ('92). Other sense organs there are which 

 appear suspiciously like still additional segmental organs placed 

 anterior to those last described and sometimes separated from them 

 by the faintest of transverse grooves. The possibihty of an addi- 

 tional rudimentary somite in this region is suggested by these 

 appearances, and is somewhat strengthened by indications that the 

 brain contains four more lobes or capsules than are necessary to 

 satisfy the requirements of the number of somites counted. In 

 the absence of decisive evidence, these somewhat uncertain indica- 

 tions hav^e been disregarded for the present, and in the tentative 

 enumeration of the metameres here adopted, the system of AVhit- 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



maa ('92), based as it is on a careful and exhaustive analysis of 

 the nervous system of Glossiphonia, has been followed. If the 

 material were available for a similarly exhaustive study of Microh- 

 della, the number of preocular somites might be augmented. The 

 question of the constitution of this region must, I think, be re- 

 garded as still open. Although recent work has been tending 

 toward the establishment of a typical number of segments for all 

 leeches a great many genera still remain to be examined with 

 requisite attention to the details. It is quite possible that leeches 

 may vary, as all other segmented animals vary. New somites may 

 have been added within the history of the group, just as new annul 

 are added when the needs of greater mobility require. On the 

 other hand, it is even more probable that the process of reduction 

 of the number of somites below that found in primitive annelids 

 may have continued after the establishment of the Hirudinean type, 

 and have progressed further in some forms than in others. 



The first departure from the biaunulate type of somite at the 

 posterior end occurs at somite XXIV, in which two rings can be 

 detected only at the margins (figs. 1 and 3). The dorsal sensillse 

 are all present. Somite XXV is commonly a simple ring, but in 

 the example figured (fig, 1) presented an excellent example of the 

 spiral variation of segmentation. On the left margin a small par- 

 tial annulus appears anterior to the larger one, while on the right 

 side the latter is alone present. A very interesting circumstance 

 concerns the position of the sensillse on this somite. On the left 

 side they are placed nearer to the anterior than to the posterior 

 margin of the larger annulus, while on the normal somites, in which 

 the relative position of the two rings is reversed, the sensillae lie 

 toward the posterior margin of the annulus. The next two 

 somites are represented by simple i*ings, of which the first, con- 

 stituting somite XXVI, is united venti'ally to XXV, while XXVTI 

 is similarly coalesced witb the postanal somites. Somite XXVII 

 bounds the anus in front and may be more or less cut into by it. 

 The anus is succeeded by two rings which are separated from 

 each other and from somite XXVII only dorsally. As both bear 

 metameric sensillse they must represent somites ^XXVIII and 

 XXIX. A portion of this last-mentioned somite combined with 

 five entire somites constitute the posterior sucker. These somites 

 are not distinguished externally, but their number w^as determined 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



by the number of ganglia in the posterior mass. Leaving out of 

 account the possible rudimentary anterior somite the ^yhole num- 

 ber counted is 34, a number which was first determined accurately 

 by Whitman ('92), and is now generally attributed to all leeches. 



Structural features of interest are not confined to the exterior, 

 but some important characters are presented by the internal ana- 

 tomy. In the first place, the intersegmental septa, which, as a 

 result of the reduction of the coelome, are so much modified and 

 phifted in most leeches, are clearly represented by strong trans- 

 verse sheets of vertical muscle fibres corresponding, except toward 

 the ends of the worm, exactly with the external segmentation. 

 Some of the septa are shown diagrammatically in figs. 4 and 5, s, 

 where they are seen to begin on the ventral side exactly at the 

 intersegmental furrows, though dorsally they tend to shift their 

 attachments with the muscular and integumentary layers slightly 

 forward to the smaller annulus of the preceding somite. Except 

 where they are interrupted by the passage of organs continuing 

 from somite to somite, the alimentary canal, principal blood ves- 

 sels, longitudinal sinuses, genital ducts and nephridia, these septa 

 are complete. The coelome has been reduced as usual and the 

 various organs are packed around with the usual parenchymatous 

 tissues, glands, etc., but there are very few dorso-ventral muscle 

 fibres except in relation to the posterior sucker. The dorso-ven- 

 tral musculature of the middle region of the body is almost en- 

 tirely represented by these septa, which have retained a simple 

 structure and a primitive arrangement almost as definite and regu- 

 lar as in the Oligochceta. 



Unfortunately no fresh material was available for a complete 

 study of the nervous system by the more refined neurological 

 methods. But by dissection, after maceration, of the preserved 

 material, I succeeded in isolating in two examples almost the entire 

 central nervous system, with the exception of a part of the pos- 

 terior ganglionic aggregation. From these preparations and from 

 sections the general features were determined and are represeuteil 

 on a small scale in fig. 5. The similarity to what is known of 

 the nervous systems of other leeches is sufficiently evident. The 

 anterior complex is composed of at least six and not improbablv 

 of seven neuromeres. In this region but six neuromeres wore found 

 by Whitman ('92) in Glossiphonia and other leeches, and by 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57 



Bristol ('98) in Herpobdella. The determination of the exact 

 number in Microhdella is uncertain, but is based upon a count of 

 the number of neuromeric lobes or capsules after Whitman's 

 method. In each of the two dissections a few of these were dis- 

 placed or broken, but by comparing them with each other and 

 with sections the whole number appeared to be four greater than 

 in either of the genera mentioned above. The distribution of 

 the nerves of this region could not be worked out. However, I 

 hope to be able later to state the exact number of metameres in 

 Microhdella. 



The seventh neuromere (still following Whitman's system of 

 enumeration) lies very close to the suboesophageal ganglionic mass. 

 Then follow in the ventral chain sixteen more widely separated 

 ganglia arranged along a partially double nerve cord in the usual 

 manner. Each of these ganglia lies principally in the major, but 

 also partly in the minor annulus of its somite. Those from XXIV 

 posteriorly become more and more closely crowded, the neuromeres 

 XXVII to XXIX being especially intimately associated and prac- 

 tically part of the posterior complex, which is made up of very 

 closely packed neuromeres ending as in other leeches with No. 

 XXXIV, (fig. 5.) 



Typical neuromeres of two complete somites (XII and XIII) 

 are represented in figure 8. The six groups of nerve cells, each 

 contained in a delicate nucleated capsule, so characteristic of the 

 leech neuromere, are present. Four of these are arranged in pairs 

 on the sides of the cord and the remaining two placed tandem on 

 its ventral surface. Two nerve roots arise on each side from be- 

 tween the paired capsules and rather toward its ventral surface. 

 They are bound closely together in a common sheath, so that they 

 appear as a single nerve, on the surface of which lies a large 

 (Leydig's ?) cell. After traversing the ventral sinus, and on 

 entering the body walls, the two nerves completely unite, a second 

 large cell being present at this jioint. From the place of union 

 three nerve trunks arise, of which the anterior and larger (fig. 8, 

 V 1) supplies the ventral portion of the larger annulus. It divides 

 into an anterior and a posterior branch and I see no evidence what- 

 ever that these extend beyond the limits of the annulus in which 

 they originate, but they were not traced to their end organs. A 

 second branch (fig. 8, v 2) supplies the ventral part of the smaller 




58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



annulus. The third (fig. 8, d) arises from the dorsal surface of 

 the enlargement formed by the union of the two roots. It passe.s 

 dorsad through the parenchyma, and without doubt corresponds 

 with the dorsal branch of the third nerve of Ghssijjhonla. ' In 

 dissections it was frequently broken off short, but in some cases was 

 sufficiently well preserved to show that it splits into a number of 

 branches after proceeding a considerable distance as a single trunk. 

 In sections this main nerve could be traced upward as far as the 

 dorsal longitudinal muscles among which it was lost. 



In some respects the arrangement of the nerves of Micro bdella 

 resembles that of Herpobdella (Bristol, '98) more closely than 

 Glossiphonia. The attempt to point out homologies without 

 having traced these nerves to their final distribution is no doubt 

 open to criticism, but a comparison of the nerve trunks in the two 

 cases is almost as convincing as though this had been done. There 

 is little reason for doubting that the two nerve roots of Microbdella 

 correspond to the two trunks of Herpobdella. The anterior nerve 

 of the former corresponds with the anterior nerve of the latter, 

 the one which supplies the ventral surface of the first ring of its 

 own somite together with the fourth and fifth rings of the preced- 

 ing somite. But Bristol has shown that this nerve is the homo- 

 logue of the first and second nerves of the neuromere of Glosso- 

 phonia, which agrees with the subdivision of tlic anterior nerve of 

 Microbdella into two branches. The posterior nerve of Herpob- 

 della is essentially like that of Glossiphonia ; it gives off branches 

 to the ventral surface of the second ring of the somite in Glossi- 

 phonia, or to its homologue, the second and third rings of Herpob- 

 della. In both genera this nerve also gives off a dorsal branch 

 which is equivalent to the dorsal nerve of Microbdella. Every 

 important element of the neuromere of Glossiphonia and Herpob- 

 della is, therefore, represented in Microbdella. 



The male reproductive organs (figs. 4 and 5) consist of five 

 pairs of testes (t 1—5), of which the fifth is much larger than the 

 others, and lies partly in somite XX, but chiefly in XIX. The 

 remaining four are situated beneath as many gastric cieca in somites 

 XV to XVIII. The majority of species of Glossiphonidir have 

 six pairs of testes, which are commonly described as being 

 situated in somites XIII to XVIII, and although there is some 

 discrepancy in position it may be suggested tliat the number preva- 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 6^ 



lent in the family may have arisen by the subdivision of the fifth 

 paiT in Microbdella, or by a similar process affecting the anterior 

 pair of an ancestral form. The primitive condition may be repre- 

 sented by the elongated saccular testes of Archceobdella (Kowa- 

 levsky, '96^ ), of which there is a single pair, by the subsequent 

 subdivision of which the five or six pairs of the Glossiphonidceraay 

 have been derived.^ Still further subdivision would lead to the 

 nine or ten pairs of Hiriido, the ten to twelve pairs of Hcemopu 

 and finally to the numerous small testes of the Herpobdellidce, 

 which are so beautifully arranged to meet the structural condi- 

 tions to which they must accommodate themselves. Increase in the 

 number of testes is an accompaniment of progressive development 

 in at least one series of leeches and is associated with increasing 

 length of body and many correlated changes in the sperm ducts. 

 Another feature of the testes of Microbdella is the unusually 

 large size, though this is not unique, of the sperm funnels (figs. (> 

 and 7). They are connected with the anterior, dorsal, mesial part 

 of the wall of each testis and consist of cells of relatively large 

 size. In vertical section they appear to be more or less columnar, 

 but when cut tangentially are seen to be really flattened, some- 

 what plate-like cells set on edge and arranged concentrically around 

 the mouth of the funnel. The marginal cells of the funnel pass 

 somewhat abruptly into continuity with the excessively flattened 

 epithelium of the testes which exhibits ciliated elevations at points 

 corresponding to the positions of the nuclei. Toward the centre of 

 the funnel the cells become higher, first cubical and then elevated 

 and compressed, then again cubical as they pass through the 

 mouth into the neck and finally change into the flattened epi- 

 thelium of the vas efierens (tig. 6, ve). The free surfaces of all 

 of the funnel cells are ciliated. On the more prominent parts of 

 the funnel this ciliated area is continuous, but in the narrow neck 

 becomes first interrupted by naked spaces and then reduced to 

 small isolated patches of larger cilia. This latter condition be- 

 comes more emphasized within the vas efferens, where a small 

 bunch of cilia arises on each cell opposite its nucleus. The vasa 



^ The posterior part of the testes has already become lobed aad partly sub- 

 divided, so that the actual primitive condition has to this extent been lost. 

 In this and some other features of its organization Archceobdella approaches 

 the HerpobdellidcE. 




60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



efferentia (fig. 5, ve) pass vertically dorsad close to the basal part 

 of the anterior surfaces of the gastric cseca, and in close contact 

 with the posterior faces of the septa which limit their respective 

 somites anteriorly. They unite above in a common vas deferens 

 for each side. Unlike the vasa efFerentia, the common sperm ducts 

 (vasa differentia) are lined by a simple flattened non-ciliate epi- 

 thelium. Their course is a perfectly straight one, without tortu- 

 osity or modification of any kind, just along the inner surface of 

 the longitudinal muscular layer and exactly over the line of sperm 

 funnels, as far forward as somite XII. 



The vasa differentia finally terminate in the conspicuous sperm 

 sacs (figs. 4 and 5, ss), which are modified enlargements of the 

 sperm ducts, their walls being characterized by a strongly developed 

 muscular layer and a thin lining epithelium. They have the form 

 of a dilated tube folded into S-shape, and occupy somites XI and 

 XII on each side of the oesophagus. The sperm sacs are 

 not succeeded by narrow tubes (ducti ejaculatorii) of consid- 

 erable length as in Glossiphonia, but open immediately through 

 narrow constrictions into glandular sacs (figs. 4 and 5, pg). The 

 latter rise vertically upward from tlie ventral ends of the sperm 

 sacs, and after bending somewhat sharply caudad, become con- 

 stricted and ojicn into the glandular hox'us of the atrium (figs. 4 

 and f), at). These horns are the terminations of the paired 

 sperm ducts, and have a structure very similar to the section of 

 the ducts which immediately precedes them. Each has a very 

 narrow lumen and thick glandular walls. They may be consid- 

 ered as together constituting the i)rostates. The median atrium 

 {at) which receives the openings of the sperm ducts, is a thin- 

 walled muscular globoid sac, capable of being everted through the 

 male pore — its external opening. The sperm sacs are packed full 

 of mature spermatozoa in all of the specimens examined. 



There is notliing especially noteworthy about the ovaries, which, 

 within their sacs, are closely approximated and form together a 

 massive organ lying between the nerve cord, alimentary canal and 

 series of testes. They extend from somite XII to somite XVIII, 

 and at the anterior end diverge from each other and form a ring 

 through which passes the nerve cord, ventral to which they unite 

 at the common ovarian pore (figs. 4 and T), ov). 



The alin\entary canal is nearly like that of other small Glossi- 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



phonids. The protrusible pharynx (figs. 4 and 5, ph) extends"^ to 

 IX, extensible oesophagus (nc) to XIII, and the stomach thence to 

 XIX, where it joins the intestine (i). A pair of nearly solid 

 elongated glands are appended to the oesophagus in X (figs. 4 and 

 5, g). There are seven pairs of gastric cjBca, of which the first 

 six are small and simple and the seventh much, larger and saccu- 

 lated. They arise from the stomach within the major annuli of 

 the seven somites from XIII to XIX. The fii-st (c 1) bends 

 cephalad somewhat sharply into somite XII, the next five are 

 confined by the septa within the limits of the somites in which 

 they arise, but they bend caudad more or less into the minor 

 annuli and usually terminate in a bulbous enlargement ( c 4)- 

 The seventh and last pair are continued through five somites, 

 developing sacculations in each (c 7) ; corresponding enlargements 

 also appear on the intestine. 



Besides the position of the nephiidiopores, which is described 

 above, the only point concerning the nephridia which is worthy of 

 comment relates to the funnels. These are very simple in struc- 

 ture, being composed of a single large cell. The vesicles into 

 which, they empty are formed of a small number of rather large 

 cells. The funnels lie opposite to the outer ends of the caeca, 

 toward their posterior dorsal surfaces, where they open into a sinus 

 which corresponds to the complex which Oka ('94) has described 

 in this region of Glossiphouia doi'sal and mesiad to the lateral 

 longitudinal sinus. Thev lie whollv within the minor annuli 

 (fig. 5,/). 



Microbdella appears to be one of those leeches in which fertiliza- 

 tion is accomphshed by the hypodermic injection of spermatozoa, a 

 process which has been so nearly demonstrated by Whitman 

 ('92^) for Placohdella plana. The evidence for this is found in 

 the presence of spermatozoa in the sinuses and internal tissues of 

 the body. The nephridial funnels and funnel vesicles are almost 

 always gorged with spermatozoa which have been taken through 

 the nephrostomata from the surrounding sinus. In several cases 

 spermatozoa were found within the ovarian sacs, either aggregated 

 in lars:e masses or scattered among the ova. The presence of 

 compact masses of spermatozoa in the ovaries suggests that fertili- 

 zation may also be accomplished by the entrance of spermatophores 

 directly through the ovipores. The species is protandric. 




62 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900* 



There is nothing striking or distinctive about the color of this 

 species. The body is translucent and speckled with scattered green 

 and brown pigment cells, the general effect of Avhich is to give the 

 animal a pale olive green color. 



The Leech Somife. — The facts contained in the foregoing descrip- 

 tion seem to me to point conclusively to a necessity for some modi- 

 fication of current views regarding the constitution of the typical 

 leech somite. Most text-books of zoology agree in stating of 

 leeches that external and internal metamerism do not correspond. 

 Except in so far as this means that the somites are externally 

 divided into rings which have no internal counterparts (a condition 

 which is also met Avith in many Oligochieta and Polychceta, in 

 which there is said to be agreement between internal and exter- 

 nal segmentation), this is not true of Microbdella, for in this leech 

 the metamerism of the exterior does correspond most exactly with 

 the arrangement of the internal organs in typical somites. 



Let us reexamine a typical somite. Externally its boundaries 

 are indicated by deep furrows which extend all around the body. 

 Between these intersegmental furrows the body wall is divided 

 into two distinct rings, which are only faintly, and in most cases 

 partially, indicated on the ventral surface. The first ring is the 

 larger and bears the metameric seusilla? posteriorly and the neph- 

 ridiopores anteriorly. Internally well-developed dissepiments cor- 

 respond with the bounding furrows exactly on the ventral side 

 and nearly so on the dorsal. Each somite contains a ganglion of 

 the ventral chain from which arise nerves distributed solely within 

 the limits of that somite. There is complete agreement between 

 the neuromeres and external segmentation. In some of the seg- 

 ments the ducts of the testes are in contact with the anterior 

 septa, caeca of the alimentary canal occupy just the distance 

 between the two septa and nephridial funnels open within the 

 limits of one somite to pass into tubules which perforate the 

 following septum and open on the anterior part of the succeeding 

 somite. The external segmentation does, therefore, agree with 

 all of the principal internal systems in which metamerism is ex- 

 pressed. 



If, adopting the current definition of a leech somite, we similarly 

 examine the organization of any leech wliich has been fully 

 described — Glossiphonia, for example, as being one of the most 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 6-> 



simple and best, known — ^the chief discrepancy is found to exist 

 between the arrangement of the nervous system and the groups of 

 rings which indicate the somites externally. The two anterior 

 rings of each somite are innervated by its own neuromere, and 

 its third by the immediately succeeding neuromere, or, as Wbitman 

 ('92) has stated it, the peripheral nerves of typical somites 

 " innervate three successive rings, the first and second of their 

 own segment and the third of the preceding segment. The dis- 

 tribution is thus triauuulate and dimeric. " The body walls 

 have, so to speak, slipped one ring backward on the nervous sys- 

 tem or the nervous system one ring forward on the body walls. 



Can it be possible that there is such a fundamental ditlerence 

 between two genera of leeches of the same family as would exist 

 if both of the above interpretations are correct, and if not, which 

 of the two interpretations must be accepted ? An attempt to reply 

 to these questions necessitates a close comparison between typical 

 somites of the two genera. The most striking external difference 

 is that the somite of Glomphonia is triannuJate, while that of 

 MicrohdeUa is only biauuulate. As each has one ring bearing 

 metameric sensill?e, the difference appears to be that Microbdella 

 has one less ring lacking segmental sense organs than has Glossi- 

 phonia. There are no known extei'ual marks which constantly 

 belong to the latter rings throughout the different genera, but the 

 comparison of the nerve supply already given shows that the 

 second annulus of MicrohdeUa finds its counterj^art in the ring of 

 Glossiphonia which succeeds the sensilliferous one, for in the 

 former genus there is no ring which receives its nerve supply from 

 the succeeding neuromere, while the nerves which supply the 

 second annulus in the two genera have been shown to be homo- 

 logous. 



The sensillse-bearing annuli of the two genera under comparison 

 resemble each other, in addition to the presence of the sense 

 organs, in containing the nerve gangHon and nephridiopores,^ and 

 according to the accepted interpretation in being the most anterior 

 of their somites. Without further examination it might therefore 

 be concluded that these rings are homologous, that the biannulate 



' The description of Clepsine hollensis Whitman is mainly being fol- 

 lowed. In some other allied species the nephridiopores are on the boundary 

 between tliis and the preceding annulus. 




64 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



somite is equivalent to the first and second rings of the triannulate 

 type, that the posterior ring of the latter is unrepresented in the 

 former, and that the want of a nerve supply from the succeeding 

 ganglion is correlated with its absence. But the sensilke-bearing 

 annulus of Microbdella is not in all respects like that of Glossi- 

 phonia. In the first place it is much larger than its fellow-annulus 

 in the somite, while in Glossiphonia the annuli are of equal size or 

 the sensilliB-bearing one somewhat smaller than its mates. It has 

 been repeatedly shown by Whitman and Apathy and by many 

 others in a great variety of leeches that all the annuli of a given 

 species of leech are not equivalent, that a single annulus toward 

 the end of the body may represent two or more annidi of a somite 

 in the middle region. Such annuli almost invariably indicate 

 their greater value by a larger size as compared with those adjacent. 

 This fact alone should make it evident that the sensillse-bearing 

 annulus of Microbdella comprehends more than that of Glossi- 

 phonia. This additional part cannot be the middle annulus of 

 Glossiphonia, for this has already been shown to have its exact 

 counterpart, both in position and nerve supply, in the minor 

 annulus of Microbdella. Just as certainly does the posterior pasi- 

 tion of the sensillje indicate a greater value for the part of the ring 

 in front than behind them and lead us to look for tlie missing 

 member in a more anterior position, and consequently within the 

 preceding somite of Glossiphonia. Comparison of the nerve 

 supply locates it in the third annulus, for it will be remembered 

 that the anterior part of the larger annulus of Microbdella is 

 supplied by a nerve homologous with the one which in Glos-^i- 

 pliotiia reaches into the preceding annulus. The major annulus of 

 Microbdella is equivalent, therefore, to the seusillre-bearing annulus 

 plus the one which precedes it in Glossiphonia ; the first is repre- 

 sented approximately by that portion of the major annulus which 

 bears the sensilla? and lies caudad of the nephridiopores and the 

 second by the cephalic portion. Occasionally a very faint groove 

 partially marks tlie boundary line. 



If the limits of the somites of leeches have been hitherto cor- 

 rectly defined then Microbdella is a leecli in which every somite 

 throughout almost its entire length has obviously given up its pos- 

 terior third to the following somite and absorbed the corresponding 

 third of the preceding somite, a suggestion which is so improbable 




1900,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 65 



that it might almost be repudiated without examination. But the 

 fact that the entire bodily organization, and especially the distri- 

 bution of the nerves, point to the external metamerism of Microb- 

 della as fundamental is sufficient to dispel any lingering suspicion 

 with which we might be led to regard an animal which is very 

 small and parasitic, and therefore a likely subject for degenera- 

 tion. On the other hand, the lack of alignment between the 

 neuromeres and external segments as hitherto determined argues 

 forcibly against the current view. The interpretation of the 

 structure of Microbdella shows, therefore, that the sensillte-bearing 

 annul us is the middle and not the first of the triannulate and 

 quinqueannulate somites, and that we must look for agreement 

 between the distribution of the nerves and the external segmenta. 

 tion in all leeches.* That the neuromeres cannot be an absolute 

 criterion of the limits of all of the somites has, of course, been 

 shown by Whitman for Glosdjihonia ('92), in which the peripheral 

 nerves of the anterior neuromei'es shift and unite in such a man- 

 ner as to obscure their segmental value. But this fact does not 

 lessen their utility for determining the typical somites. 



Since the above conclusions were reached about eighteen months 

 ago, I have examined many genera and species in order to apply this 

 new interpretation to their external segmentation, and in search of 

 corroborative evidence. The latter has been ample ; but the details 

 are too voluminous for statement here and now. That the new 

 standard of enumeration accords better with the facts and explains 

 away some of the difficulties now found in all families of leeches is 

 evident from the following general statements. The increasing sim- 

 plicity of the somites from the middle toward the ends of the body 

 becomes more gradual and regular; adjacent somites differ from 

 one another by seldom more than one I'ing, whereas under the 

 current system there are sudden jumps from five to three to one, 

 etc. Moreover the individual somites almost invariably repeat 

 the condition of the entire extremity in which they are located; 

 their distal ends present (especially when the whole number of 

 annuli is less than the typical number for the species) a less devel- 



^ After this paper had been written and presented for publication, Castle 

 (Abstract of papers read at the New Haven meeting of the Morphological 

 Society, Science, February 2, 1900, p. 175) announced his arrival at pre- 

 cisely the same conclusiou. It is a real pleasure to be able to furnish such 

 complete confirmation of results as carefully worked out as were Castle's. 




66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



oped condition than their proximal. The necessity for splitting 

 rings — dividing the halves between two contiguous somites — practi- 

 cally disappears, for union of the rings of neighboring somites 

 consisting of more than a single annulus each, is exceedingly rare, 

 if indeed it ever occurs; division into somites is far more funda- 

 mental than division into rings, which have no primary metameric 

 significance, and is never, or very rarely, obscured by the latter. 

 The shifting of the sensillse back and forth on the ring which bears 

 them, as the balance of growth is thrown, with the splitting off of 

 new rings, first on one side, then on the other, takes place exactly 

 as it should if the present view is true, while it is inexplicable 

 upon that hitherto accepted, in fact, contradictory of it. The 

 same is true of many of the cases of spiral annulation and partial 

 annulatioii which have been studied; and none have been found to 

 favor the current view, while opposing the one here upheld. Very 

 curiously the left side of somite XXV of fig. 1, representing the 

 only important variation met with among the twelve examples of 

 this species, illustrates the last two statements. If the seusillse- 

 bearing annulus be really the first of all leeches, why does the 

 partial ring appear anterior to it, and why do the sensillie of that 

 side move forward ? If the sensillie belong primarily to the 

 middle of the somite, the insertion of an anterior ring is per- 

 fectly natural and the change in position of the seusillaj the re- 

 sult of a readjustment of the ring to the new balance of growth. 

 The difterences in the location of the nephridiopores in different 

 genera and families is a diflSculty which others have recognized and 

 tried to explain as a result of shifting or the disappearance of 

 annuli. Upon the view here held the nephridiopores always fall 

 within the same region of the somite and have shifted back and 

 forth only within limits which might have been expected. The 

 change in the position of the septa during ontogeny appears to be 

 confirmatory, but this evidence is still rather obscure and unsatis- 

 factory. A better explanation of the position of the intermus- 

 cular nerve rings described by Bristol in Herpobdella seems to be 

 afforded. 



But one* serious objection to the application of this neuromeric 



* It has not been thought necessary to regard Blanchard's ('98) determi- 

 nation of the large double annulus of Torix as the posterior one, as an objec- 

 tion. This conclusion was arrived at without any knowledge of the 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 67 



standard has been met with. In certain genera of leeches both sex- 

 pores would fall within the limits of somite XII, whereas under 

 the current system the male pore is in XI and the female in XII. 

 This condition occurs very rarely outside of the family Herpoh- 

 dellidcE, in which the sex pores are peculiai'ly liable to variation 

 both between species and among individuals of the same species. 

 Six out of seven North American species have them separated by 

 two rings. In European species they are from two to five rings 

 apart. In the genus Orobdella of Japan, Oka ('95) has described 

 a variable number of rings as intervening, but the distance amounts 

 to more than a full somite. Still more remarkable are the individual 

 variations, among which it is not uncommon to find the two sperm- 

 ducts, instead of opening together, with distinct apertures sepa- 

 rated by one or even two full rings. These facts and others indi- 

 cate that the pores are shifting their positions and it is along this 

 line that a solution of the difficulty is being sought. 



It is a matter of some morphological importance to find a 

 standard by which the leech somite may be correctly delimited, 

 and the present writer's chief interest is connected with the possi- 

 bility which now exists for the first time, of making a detailed 

 comparison between the Hirudinean and Oligochsete somites, a 

 comparison Avhich, it is believed, will do much to bring the two 

 groups closer together and to weaken the position which is still 

 adhered to by some eminent authorities that the Hirudiiiea were 

 Platyhelminthine in origin. How the general theory of metamer- 

 ism will be affected has not yet been considered. 



The adoption of this standard will also necessitate the modifica- 

 tion of the generic formulae which were proposed in my paper on 

 " Leeches of the National Museum " ('98). The theoretical for- 

 mula may remain the same for leeches with three annuli and over, 

 but the discovery of a more primitive biannulate form destroys 

 some of its significance, and the annuli which undergo most elab- 

 oration must now be designated as a i and a 3 instead oi a 2 and 



position of the nephridiopores or sensillae or other intrinsic data for the 

 determination of the limits of the somite. It is an assumption from the 

 accepted theory and practice. When Torix is studied by means of sections 

 it seems very probable that the nephridiopores will be found in the anterior 

 half and the sensillfe on the posterior half of the double annulus. Should 

 this surmise prove to be incorrect, Torix will probably present a serious 

 obstacle to the acceptance of the conclusions suggested by the structure of 

 Microhddla. 




^8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



a 3, Avhile a 2, which becomes the symbol for the middle sensillse- 

 bearing anuulus, remains relatively stable. 



The number of annuli into which typical somites are divided, 

 together with the number and degree of departures from this type 

 in a givpn form of leech have been much used in classification. 

 Whitman and Apathy especially have considered these characters 

 as of great phylogenetic significance. But the fundamental con- 

 ceptions of these two zoologists regarding the meaning of the facts 

 belonging to the fii-st-mentioned class are diametrically opposed. 

 Up to now leeches have l)een known whose complete somites con- 

 tained from three (two dorsally in Torix) to fourteen T twelve 

 according to Apathy's count) anuuli. Apathy ('88j believes that 

 the latter is the primitive number and that all other types have 

 been derived from this by a process of absorption and suppression 

 of those rings which have lost their functional importance in the 

 evolution of genera from a purely parasitic form to forms which 

 have become adapted to a variety of environments. Whitman 

 (90*^ and elsewhere) considers the triannulate type as the primi- 

 tive one from wliich the multianuulate somites of the Gnathob- 

 dellida are derived by a process of progressive fission and multipli- 

 cation of rings. The latter view seems to be most in accord with 

 the facts of embryology and comparative anatomy and has been 

 supported by several zoologists, including the present writer. 



It is well known that typical complete somites ai'e abseut from 

 the end regions of nearly all leeches, where they are represented 

 by somites which contain a smaller number of rings. Whitman, 

 Apathy, and I believe all otlier modei'u writers on tlie HirmUnea 

 are agreed that such somites, when of less than three rings, are the 

 result of a process of reduction, that uuiauuulate or biannulate 

 somites occurring in a typically triunnuhite leech have been derived 

 from the latter type of somite by a process which is essentially one 

 of phylogenetic concrescence — a shrinking in size of the attected 

 rings, togetlier with a smoothing out of the furrows which geneti- 

 cally separate them. The favorable argument seems to 1^ derived 

 largely from analogy to other groups of segmented animals and it 

 must be admitted has seemed to explain the facts known up to the 

 present time. Whitman, who is the author of this h^-pothesis, has 

 formulated it as follows: 



" All somites with less than three rings ai-e abbreviated, and 



tl 




1900,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 69 



all with more thaa three have been increased by the division of 

 one or two of the three primary rings. I have collected consider- 

 able evidence, which cannot be given here, to show that in the 

 evolution of Hlrudo, it was the second and third rings that under- 

 went division, while the first remained undivided " ('92, p. 392). 

 Probably the authors of the opinions that the ti-iannulate or 

 multiannulate somites represent the primitive types would admit 

 the probability of the occurrence of a uniannulate ancestor some- 

 where in the remote history of the Hirudinea, but evidently no 

 such form was looked for within the limits of the group. Blanch - 

 ard ('98), to whose activity in systematic studies we owe the dis- 

 covery of so many important generic types of leeches, describes 

 the typical somite of Torix as biannulate with one ring subdivided 

 into two on the ventral surface. This type of somite he regards 

 as more primitive than that of Glossiphonia, and prophesies the 

 discovery of a uniannulate leeoh, a prophecy which Microbdella 

 so nearly fulfils. The discovery of a truly biannulate leech sheds 

 new light on the subject, and it seems very doubtful if Prof. 

 Whitman himself would explain this condition as a process of 

 abbreviation affecting all of the somites of the body, and most of 

 them in a perfectly similar manner and to an equal degree. The 

 variation shown in the somite XXV of fig. 1 afibrds, however, one 

 little bit of evidence for such a contention, for it is indeed very 

 curious that the only distinct attempt towai*d the separation of 

 annulus a 1 should occur in a somite which is in other respects of 

 simpler structure than the type. I have no explanation or excuse 

 to offer for this bit of wilfulness upon the part of my material.* 

 The crucial question is really which is the most primitive in struc- 

 ture, Glossiphonia or Microbdella. If the former shows evidence 

 in its general organization of standing nearer to the ancestral 

 Hirudineau stock, then the biannulate somite has probably been 

 derived by abbreviation of the triannulate. If Microbdella proves 

 to be the more generalized, the converse is probably true. In the 

 general description reason has been given for believing that the 

 latter is true. The evidence is found chiefly in the exact agree- 

 ment between the metameres as expressed internally and externally 



^ There is evidence that this and some similar variations may be the re- 

 sult of a conflict between immediate mechanical factors and hereditary 



influences. 




70 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



by the different systems of organs, and in the structure and arrange- 

 ment of the dissepiments, testes and nephridia. The few special- 

 ized characters are unimportant and easily explained. It is there- 

 fore concluded that Microhdella approaches nearer to and throws 

 light upon the characters of a primitive ancestral leech which 

 phylogenetically preceded the Glossiphonidce, etc. The triannulate 

 somite of the latter has, therefore, been derived from a biannulate 

 somite. The derivation of the multiannulate from the triannulate 

 type is but the continuation of the general process of elaboration 

 begun earlier, and which affords a means of maintaining the flexi- 

 bility of the body as it increases in length. 



The structure of Acanthohdella (Kowalevsky, '96*^ ), which is 

 a true annectant type between Hirudinea and Oligochceta, seems 

 to present a difficulty, as this leech appears to have quinqueannu- 

 late somites, but the discussion of this remarkable form can profit- 

 ably be postponed until the publication of Kowalevsky' s final 

 paper, which has not, I believe, yet appeared. 



Microbdella also furnishes some data which seem to make it 

 sufficiently clear that in the development of the triannulate from 

 the uniannulate somite (if such a type actually existed), the latter 

 first became enlarged posterior to the segmental sense organs, a 

 posterior ring was then split off which became the third (a 3). 

 The anterior part of the then biannulate somite grew and a furrow 

 was formed approximately in the plane of the nephridiopores, thus 

 producing the first ring {a 1) and leaving the sensillre on the 

 second (a 2). Some direct evidence of an embryological nature, 

 and a considerable amount of collateral evidence derived from 

 comparative anatomy and relating chiefly to the relative positions 

 of the iuievnal organs in a number of genera has been collected 

 in support of this visw, but cannot be given here. 



The conclusion arrived at that the triannulate has been reached 

 through the biannulate somite leads to one further consideration. 

 Are the uni- and biannulate somites which are so generally found 

 toward the ends of the body in nearly, if not quite, all leeches the 

 product of abbreviation as now universally admitted ? The answer 

 is in large part a corollary from the above conclusion, but the 

 very fact of the occurrence of one or several biannulate somites* 



* Such somites are not usually apparent by the current manner of 

 counting, as the larger rings have very often been interpreted as indicating 

 fusions of contiguous parts of neighboring somites. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 71 



having all of the essential characteristics of the typical somite of 

 Microbdella in both the auterio.r and posterior ends of nearly all 

 leeches is in itself very significant. The argument then is the 

 same as that adopted by Whitman ('92) to show that the trian- 

 nulate somites of the Hlrudinidce are "type somites" and not 

 * ' abbreviated somites. " It is therefore believed that the smaller 

 number of rings embraced by the somites toward the ends of a leech's 

 body is not due to their having been reduced from the condition 

 of complete somites, but that most of them represent phylogenetic 

 stages of development arrested or still in progress toward the com- 

 plete type. We may therefore read one part, and this no doubt 

 much garbled, of the story of a leech's ancestry in the records of 

 its somites from the extremities toward the middle of its body. 

 There are, of course, other versions of this story Avhich are recorded 

 elsewhere. It is not meant to be implied that the retrograde process 

 of abbreviation has never occurred in the differentiation of the genera 

 of leeches, as some almost certain cases of this are known, but it is 

 believed that they are infrequent and that the process has not 

 played anything like the important part which has been attributed 

 to it. Nor must it be supposed that a leech which presents a large 

 number of incomplete somites is regarded as necessarily primitive, 

 for it is recognized that specialization of somites may take place, 

 and has taken place, in other ways than by an increase in the 

 number of rings, for example, by a great development of segmen- 

 tal sense organs, as in the Hirudin idee. 



The difference (in respect to the number of component rings) 

 between somites of the middle and terminal regions of a leech's 

 body is believed to have arisen phylogenetically by a process which is 

 more accurately described as one of centrifugal expansion and 

 elaboration rather than ' ' centripetal abbreviation. ' ' The somites of 

 the middle region probably first increased in size and multiplied their 

 annuli and in this region the process has advanced the farthest. 

 From this centre the change has extended toward the ends, but 

 with gradually diminishing effect. The terminal somites, already 

 specialized in other directions, might be positively lowered in 

 eflBciency by any increase in length. 




72 proceedings of the academy of [1900. 



List of Papers Cited. 



Apathy, Stefan. '88. Analyse der iiusseren Korperform der 

 Hirudineen. Mittheil. zool. Sta. Neapel, %nii (1888), 153-232. 



Blauchard, K. '98. Noveau tvpe d'Hirudinee {Torix mirm). 

 Bull. Scient. France et Belgique. xxviii (1898), 339-344. 



Bristol, Charles L. '98. The ]Metamerism of Xephelis. Jour. 

 Morph., XV (1898), 17-72. 



Kowalevsky, A. '96^ fitude sur I'anatomie de I'ArchaeobdeLIa 

 Esmontii de O. Grimm. Bull. Acad. Imp. Sci. St. Petersbourg, 

 V (1896), 331-335. Comm. prelim. 



Kowalevsky, A. '96^ Etude sur I'anatomie de I'Acanthobdella 

 peledina. Comm. prelim. Bull. Acad. Imp. Sci. St. Peters- 

 bourg, V (1896), 263-274. 



Moore, J. Percy. '98. The Leeches of the U. S. National 

 Museum. Pro. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxi (1898), 543-563. 



Oka, Asajiro. '94. Beitrjige zur Anatomic der Clepsine. 

 Zeitschr. f. wiss. Zool., Iviii (1894), 79-151. 



Oka, Asajiro. '95. On S(mie New Japanese Land Leeches. 

 Jour. Coll. of Sci. Imp. Univ. of Japan, viii (1895), 275-306. 



Whitman, C. O. '86. The Leeches of Japan. Part I. Quar. 

 Jour. Micr. Sci., xxvi (1886), 317-416. 



Whitman, C. O. '90^. Description of Clepsine plana. Jour. 

 Morph., iv (1890-91), 407-416. 



Whitman, C. O. '90*^, Spermatophores as a means of Hypo- 

 dermic Impregnation. Jour. Morph., iv (1890-91), 361-405. 



Whitman, C. O. '92. The Metamerism of Clepsine. Festschr. 

 zu. 70ten Geburtstage R. Leuckarts (1892), 385-395. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE VI. 



MiCROBDELLA BIANXULATA. 



Figs. 1, 2 and 3. Doreal, ventral and lateral views, respectively, 

 of a full grown, partly extended specimen, showing the 

 chief external characters. X (about) 15. I to XXVII, 

 the twenty-seven preanal somites; m, mouth; a, anus; 

 e, the ocular pigment spot; cf, male pore; 2', female 

 pore; small circles indicate the segmental sensilla? and 

 dots (in fig. 2) the nephridiopores. 



Fig. 4. A semi-diagrammatic representation of some of the more 

 important features of the alimentary canal, organs of 

 reproduction and dissepiments as seen from the dorsum. 

 The entire digestive tract is outlined and the reproduc- 

 tive organs are seen as tluiugh it were transparent. The 

 sperm sacs are displaced laterally in order to expose the 

 atrium. The parenchyma and other filling tissues are 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 73 



left out of account. X 15. m, mouth; ph, pharynx; 

 ce, oesophagus; r/, oesophageal glands; c 1-7, the seven 

 pairs of gastric cfeca; i, intestine; a, anus; d\ male 

 pore; a, median atrium; jx/, prostate sac and gland; ss, 

 sperm reservoir; vd, vas deferens; t 1-5, the five pairs 

 of testes; 9, female genital pore; ov, ovaries and their 

 ducts (the arrangement of the loops of the egg-strings 

 is purely diagrammatic) ; s, the muscular dissepiments 

 corresponding to the anterior limits of somites XI to XX. 



Fig. 5. A lateral view similar to fig. 4, and showing in addition the 

 entire length of the central nervous system, the posi- 

 tions of the nephridiopores and of two of the nephridial 

 funnels. The sperm sac has been displaced slightly 

 caudad. The lettering is the same as in fig. 4, with the 

 following additions: n I-VI, XV, XA'TT and A'^YF//- 

 A'XATF, neuromeres as numbered; np 1-16, nephri- 

 diopores 1 to 16; /, funnels of nephridia; ve 1-5, the 

 five vasa efferentia. 



Fig. fi. A vertical longitudinal section through a sperm funnel of 

 the last pair, showing the continuity of its cells with the 

 testicular epithelium on the one hand, and with its vas 

 efferens on the other, and the contact of the latter with 

 the muscular septum. The testes, of course, faces to 

 the right instead of the left as in fig 5. X 300. d, 

 dorsal wall of testes, with e, its lining epithelium, and 

 ct, its conuectiv^e tissue tunic; «, anterior wall of testes; 

 m, muscle fibres, and c-<, connective tissue of septum; 

 v€, ciliated epithelium of vas efferens. 



Fig. 7. A tangential section across a sperm funnel, showing the 

 concentric arrangement of the cells around the contracted 

 mouth. X 300. 



Fig. 8. Two typical neuromeres, XII and XIII, showing the prin- 

 cipal nerve trunks and their relation to the annuli, etc. 

 X 35. ma, major, and mi, minor annulus; s position of 

 the row of metameric sensillse; np, position of nephri- 

 diopore; v 1, anterior, v 2, posterior, and (/, dorsal 

 nerve trunks; /, Leydig's (?) cells. 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



NEW AND UNFIGURED UNIONID^.i 

 BY CHARLES T. SIMPSON. 



In preparing a synopsis of the Naiades, quite a number of new 

 species of Utiionidce have come to light. These I have held until 

 the work should be practically finished, and they are here pub- 

 lished for the first time. 



Messrs. S. H. and B. H. Wright having generously donated 

 the types of most of their species to the National Museum, it was 

 thought best to give figures of those which were described in The 

 Natdilus, and which are unfigured. 



Only brief descriptions are here given of the new genera and of 



a few used in a new sense. These will be fully described in the 



Synopsis. 



Genus LAMPSILIS Rafinesque.^ 



Lampsilis fallaoiosus (Smith) Simpson. PI. II, fig. 5. 



LampsiUsfalladosus Smith, Bull. U. S. Fish Com., 1899. p. 291, PI. 79. 

 Figured and name given, but not described nor authority given. 



Shell elongate elliptical, subsolid, inflated, rounded in front, and 

 ending in a rather sharp point behind, at two-thirds of the height 

 of the shell, with a moderate, rounded posterior ridge ; beaks not 

 prominent, their sculpture consisting of a few delicate parallel 

 ridges, somewhat doubly looped, the hinder loops generally open be- 

 hind; epidermis very smooth and shining, ashy straw color, often 

 brownish on the back of the shell, generally feebly rayed with green; 

 female shell decidedly swollen in the postbasal region, so that the 

 base line is often incurved in front of the swelling; teeth rather 

 delicate, there being one compressed pseudo-cardinal and one 

 lateral in the right valve, and two pseudo -cardinals and two lat- 

 erals in the left ; beak cavities not deep ; nacre brilliant, silvery. 



Length 90, height 40, diam. 32 mm. 



^Published by permission of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

 ''See Simpson in Baker, Mollusks of the Chicago Area, 1898, p. 93. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 75 



Upper Mississippi drainage; scuth to the Cumberland and Arkan- 

 sas rivers; Red river of the North, 



This species has generally been confounded with its near ally, 

 Lampsilis anodontoides Lea. It is a smaller, more inflated, and in 

 every way a more delicate form than the latter, it is not so high, 

 the epidermis is brighter and more glossy, and generally rayed. 

 The postbasal inflation of the female is usually more pronounced, 

 and the posterior point is higher than in anodontoides. The latter 

 is usually more yellow or tawny than fallaciosus, and is, on the 

 whole, a heavier shell. 



In L. fallaciosus there is a horny, brown, raised streak on the 

 inside of the mantle behind, that I do not find in anodontoides, 

 and the palpi of the former are shorter. 



Lampsilis australis Simpson. PI. II, fig. 2. 



Shell long elliptical, subsolid, moderately inflated, bluntly pointed 

 behind above the middle ; beak sculpture not seen on account of 

 erosion, posterior ridge low, rounded; epidermis smooth, shining, 

 " greenish yellow, rayed with green, with a large burnt brown patch 

 on the central and upper part of the shell; female shell slightly 

 inflated in the postbasal part; hinge teeth delicate, somewhat 

 compressed; beak cavities moderate; nacre bright bluish Avhite, 

 iridescent behind, dark lurid in the cavity of the shell. 



Length 52, height 28, diam. 15 mm. 



Little Patsaliga creek, southeastern Alabama. 



Both the type, a young shell, and an older, larger specimen are 

 badly eroded at the beaks, so that the hinges are slightly injured. 

 I am not positive as to the relations of this species, but it seems 

 to belong in the anodontoides group, next to L. rectus Lam. 



Lampsilis mearnsi Simpson. PI. I, fig. 4. 



I Shell small, rather solid and inflated, elliptical, pointed at the 

 middle of the posterior end, with a rather pronounced, rounded 

 post ridge; beaks moderate, the sculpture consisting of several 

 ridges looped in a single loop, which are strongly curved upward 

 behind; epidermis tawny with a greenish tint, rather smooth and 

 shining, though sometimes a little silky, often with a large, dark 

 green blotch at the posterior base, w-hich sometimes covers the entire 

 posterior half of the shell, or it may break into rays at its front 

 edge; female shell decidedly swollen at the postbase; hinge teeth 




76 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



rather delicate; laterals curved; pseudo-cardinals smooth below 

 and slightly reflexed upward; muscle scars distinct; beak cavities 

 shallow; nacre brilliant, soft silvery, yellowish or salmon. 



Length 53, height 30, diam. 22 mm. 



Near Fort Clark, southwest Texas. 



A large number of valves and several perfect specimens were 

 contributed to the Museum by Dr. Edgar A. Mearns, of the 

 U. S. Army. Il is closely allied to L. texasensis Lea, but it has a 

 higher posterior ridge, is much smoother, and the remarkable color 

 pattern is totally difterent. 

 Lampsilis brittsi Simpson. PI. V, figs. 1, 2. 



Shell elliptical, subsolid, moderately inflated ; beak sculpture 

 not seen ; epidermis smooth, shining, greenish yellow to tawny, 

 with delicate wavy, often broken green rays; hinge line curved; 

 pseudo-cardinals small, rather high but stumpy ; laterals somewhat 

 remote; muscle scars distinct; nacre whitish to salmon colored. 



Animal: Marsupium occupying the hinder part of the outer gills, 

 with 13-15 large ovisacs having dark bases; inner gills united to 

 abdominal sac throughout; mantle with a thick border, incurved 

 in the female behind the postbase, and having several strong, 

 lengthened, fingerlike papillae; palpi small; l)ranchial and anal 

 openings but slightly fringed. 



Length 72, height 43, diam. 23 mm. 



The female shell is decidedly emarginate behind the postbasal 

 swelling. 



Differs from L. breviculus in S2veral respects. The female shell 

 is more emarginate behind ; the painting is in more regular, wide 

 rays. The male shell of breviculus is obovate, rounded or slightly 

 biangulate behind; that of L. brittsi is more elliptical and pointed 

 posteriorly. 



Xampsilis kirklandianus S. H. Wright. PI. I, fig. 7. 



Unio kirklandianus S. H. Wright, Naut.. X, 1S97, p. l.'^G. 

 A wonderfully beautiful shell, of which I have only seen the 

 type, apparently a male. It is very different from the ordinary 

 manifestation of Lampsilis, but seems to be nearly related to the 

 Unio subcoKjulafns of Lea, which is nearer the ty[>ical form of the 

 genus, and in which the difference between the male and female 

 shells is clearly shown. The marsupium is of the Lampsilis tyj>e. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 77 



Lampsilis villosus B. H. Wright. PI. I, fig. l. 



Unio villosus B. H. Wright, Naut., XII, 1898, p. 32. 

 A species close to the Unio amygdalum of Lea, but wliich also 

 seems to be related to Ms U. exiguus. 



Genus MEDIONIDTJS Simpson. 



Shell elongated, elliptic rhomboid, subsolid, with a more or less 

 definite posterior ridge; beak sculpture fine, subparallel, broken, 

 doubly looped ridges; epidermis smooth, rather bright, variegated 

 with broken green rays or clouds; pseudo-cardinals small, stumpy; 

 laterals curved; female shell generally slightly swollen at and 

 behind the central base; marsupium occupying the centre and 

 postcentre of the outer gills, in a few large, irregular, distinct 

 ovisacs. Type Unio conradicus Lea. 



Medionidus walkeri B. H. Wright. PI. I, fig. 5. 



Unio walkeri B. H. Wright, Naut., XI, 1898, p. 91. 

 A singular shell, but most probably related to Unio rubellinus 

 of Conrad, which is a member of this genus. 



Genus NEPHRONAIAS Crosse and Fischer. 



Shell rather solid, elliptical, more or less biangulate behind, that 

 of the male often becoming arcuate when old, that of the female gen- 

 erally swollen on the postbase; surface sulcate; beaks sculptured 

 with faint, broken ridges; two pseudo-cardinals in each valve; 

 laterals perfect; beak cavities rather deep. 



Type Unio plicatulus Charpentier. 

 Nephronaias reticulatus Simpson. PI. II, fig. 3. 



Shell evenly elliptical, subinflated, rather solid, slightly biangu- 

 late behind; sCirface decidedly sulcate and sculptured throughout 

 with radiating ridges or slight furrows, which cut the sulcations 

 into loops, and give the shell a reticulated appearance; epidermis 

 tawny; pseudo-cardinals stumpy; laterals rather heavy and gran- 

 ular; muscle scars distinct; nacre lurid, thicker in front. 



Length 50, height 33, diam. 20 mm. 

 ■ Pacook river, Honduras. 



A single shell, which is probably not fully adult, is in the 

 National Museum collection. The sculpture reminds one of that 

 of Glabaris reticulatus Sowb. , of South America, or Plagiola 

 encarpa Lea, of Lake Nicaragua. 




78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Genus OBOVAEIA Rafinesque. 



Shell solid, inflated, short, rounded before and often behind, 

 that of the female swollen at postbase ; beaks high, their sculpture 

 delicate and faint, slightly doubly looped; epidermis silky, but 

 feebly rayed ; pseudo-cardinals and laterals strong ; animal 

 having the marsupium in the hinder part of the outer gills with 

 well-marked ovisacs. 



Type Unio retusa Lamarck. 



Obovaria rotulata B. H. Wright. PI. IV, fig 2. 



Unio rotulatus B. H. Wright, Naut.. XIII, 1899, p. 22.' 



A very solid shell, nearly circular in outline, and having a black 

 epidermis. It seems to be closely related to the Unio circulus of 

 Lea, but I have only seen a single specimen, the type. 



Obovaria tinker! B. II. Wright. PI. IV. fig. 3. 



Unio tinkeri B. H. Wright, Naut., XIII, 1899, p. 7. 

 A species near to the Unio unicolor of Lea, but probably dis- 

 tinct. 



Genus TRITOGONIA Agassiz. 



Shell elongate rhomboid, solid, that of the male somewhat 

 swollen and truncate behind, that of the female longer, more com- 

 pressed, and having a rounded posterior wing or flap ; posterior 

 ridge high and well defined ; beak sculpture consisting of strong, 

 irregular corrugations; surface covered with tubercles; epidermis 

 dark and rough; hinge strong, curved; a decided lunule showing in 

 front of the beaks, which extends underneath and behind them, 

 and is filled with epidermal matter ; pseudo-cardinals strong, 

 ragged, radial; laterals somewhat remote, two in each valve ; mus- 

 cle scars distinct, tliose of the anterior deep and rough ; beak 

 cavities deep, compressed; dorsal scars on the under side of the 

 hinge shelf. 



Animal: Inner gills much the larger, mostly free from the ab- 

 dominal sac; palpi enormous, elongated; mantle of male truncate 

 behind, that of the female produced into a wide, rounded, thick- 

 ened flap filling the wing of the shell behind; marsupium not 

 observed. 



Type Unio tuberculatm Barnes. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 79 



1 Tritogonia oonjugans B. H. Wright. PL IV, fig. 1. 



Unio conjugans B. H. Wright, Xaut., XIII, 1899, p. 89. 

 A most remarkable shell, of which only the type, probably a 

 male, is kno^vn. I am not certain as to the relationship of this 

 species. It does not have the biangulation at the postbase gener- 

 ally found in male shells of T. tuberculata Barnes, but has an 

 almost straight truncation from the postbase to the dorsal region^ 

 However, T. tuberculata ohensh.ov:s such a truncation when young, 

 and we have shells of this an inch and a half in length which are 

 much like T. conjugaiis would be at the same size. 



Genrus PTYCHOBRANCHUS Simpson. 



Shell somewhat subtriangular or elliptical, solid, that of the 

 male and female alike; epidermis havnng hairlike or broken rays; 

 beak sculpture faint, broken, and somewhat doubly looped ridges; 

 hinge strong ; pseudo-cardinals stumpy ; laterals club-shaped, 

 remote; the muscle scars deep; shell ca\'ity with one or more 

 oblique furrows. Marsupium occupying the entire outer branchiae 

 in a series of beautiful, wide folds, the ovisacs well marked and 

 rounded below. 



Type Unio phaseolus ^T}^Teih.. 

 Ptyohobranchus clintonensis Simpson. PL V, fig. 3. 



Shell elongate, elliptical, sometimes slightly obovate, feebly 

 biangulate behind, quite solid ; beak sculpture not seen ; epidermis 

 somewhat clothlike, dirty olive, the hinder two-thirds of the shell 

 ornamented with delicate, wavy, capillary rays; pseudo-cardinals 

 low, laterals very hea^y, remote; muscle scars large and well 

 defined; nacre lurid, with greenish brown blotches. 



Length 73, height 40, diam. 22 mm. 



Archie's Fork of Little Red river, near Clinton, Ark. Probably 

 extends into Kansas. 



This form I at first mistook for a variety of Unio gibbosus Bar., 

 but an examination of the animal in a gravid state later on showed 

 me that it is a Ptychobranchus. The soft parts of the specimens 

 examined were a dark leaden color, almost blue. 



Genus TJNIO Retzius. 

 Unio iheringi B. H. Wright. PL IV, fig. 5. 



Unio iheringi B. H. Wright, Naut., XII, 1898, p. 93. 

 This shell is rather close to Unio mitchelli Simpson, but differs 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [L900. 



from it in the character of the beak sculpture, in the rays, the 

 texture of the ei^idermis, and in the form. 



Unio dispalans B. H. Wright. PI. I, fig. 9. 



Unio dispalans B. H. Wright, Xaut., XIII, 1899, p. 50. 

 A member of the complanatus group, probably, though it has 

 relations with that of buckleyi Sind fisherianus. It is one of those 

 puzzling forms which is a good deal like several things, but not 

 near enough to anything to be referred to it. 



Unio lehmani S. H. Wright. PL IV. fig. 9. 



Unio iehmaui S. H. Wright, Naut., X, 1897, p. 138. 

 A member of the buckleyi group. 

 TJnio burtcManus S. II. Wright. PI. IV, fig. 8. 



Unio burtchianus B. H. Wright, Naut., X, 1897, p. 137. 

 Another member of the buckleyi group. 

 TJnio pinei B. H. Wright. PI. Ill, fig. 1. 



Unio pinei B. H. Wright, Naut., XI, 1897, p. 40. 

 Nea? to forms of U. buckleyi,hut probably distinct. 



Unio buxtoni B. II. Wright. PI. I. fig. 6. 



Unio buxtoni B. H. Wriglit, Xaut., XI, 1897, p. 55. 

 A peculiarly formed member of the buckleyi group. 



Unio brimleyi S. II. Wright. PI. IV, fig. 6. 



UniobrimlcyiS. H. Wright, Xaut., X, 1897, p. 138. 

 A species related to U. siibj)hiinis Conrad. 



fJenus PLEUROBEMA (Rafinesque) Agassiz. 



Shell solid, oval, triangular or rhomboid, usually inflated, 

 inequilateral, with high beaks, their sculpture coarse and broken ; 

 epidermis generally tawny, but sometimes brownish or black, often 

 having broken rays and square spots; rest lines strong; hinge 

 heavy, with pseudo-cardinals and laterals; beak cavities shallow, 

 nacre Avhite. End)ryos contained in the outer gills alone; 



Type Unio c/ara Lamarck. 



Pleurobema brevis subelliptica Simpson. 



Shell elliptic rhomboid, solid, inflated, slightly biangulate behind ; 

 beaks rather high, but compressed, sculptured with strong, irregu- 

 lar corrugations that curve up behind; epidermis tawny, with a 

 few faint posterior rays; rest mai'ks moderate; nacre silvery, 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



iridescent behind; muscle scars well marked; beak cavities'mod- 

 erate; teeth strong, two laterals in each valve. 



Length 55, height 40, diam, 28 mm. 



Hardy, Arkansas. Tennessee drainage, probably. 



Something like P. brevis Lea, but much more inflated, and 

 slightly rayed instead of square blotched, and less rhomboid. 

 Probably a distinct species. 



Pleurobema avellana Simpson. PI. II, figs. 6, 7. 



Shell small, solid, inflated, rhomboid elliptical, with a well- 

 developed, rounded posterior ridge; beaks full, bacQy eroded in 

 the only specimens seen; surface lightly concentrically striate, 

 greenish brown, scarcely rayed, but slighly clouded; two diverg- 

 ing pseudo-cardinals in the left valve and one in the right; two 

 laterals in each valve; muscle scars deep; nacre bluish, iridescent 

 behind. 



Length 30, height 20, diam. 15 mm. 



Catawba river, Alabama. Collections of Bryant Walker and 

 Lorraine Frierson. 



Seems to be near P. ruheUus Con. 



Pleurobema strodeana B. H. Wright. PI. I, fig. 3. 



Unio strodeanus B. H. Wright, Naut., XII, 1898, p. 5. 

 This species is nearly related to P. patsalicjensis and P. simulans. 



Pleurobema harperi B. H. Wright. PI. I, fig. 10. 



Unio harperi B. H. Wright, Naut., XIII, 1899, p. 6. 

 I am somewhat doubtful whether this is more than a variety of 

 TJnio bulbosus Lea. 



Pleurobema pinkstoni S. H. Wright. PI. I, fig. 8. 



Unio pinkstoni S. H. Wright, Naut., X, 1897, p. 136. 

 Related to P. hanleyana Lea and P. 



Pleurobema swordiana S. H. Wright. PI. IV, fig. 4. 



Unio sioordianus S. H. Wright, Xaut., XI, 1897, p. 4. 

 A puzzling form which may be related to Unio apj)resms of 

 Lea and U. abacus of Haldeman. Its shallow beak cavities dis- 

 tinguish it at once from Unio bursa-pastoris of B. H. Wright, 

 which it resembles, but which has deep cavities. 




82 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Plenrobema patsaligensis Simpson. PI. II, fig. l. 



Shell rather small, nearly elliptical, subsolid and .somewhat 

 inflated, with a well-developed, posterior ridge, sometimes slightly 

 biangulate behind; posterior slope Avith two or three faint ridges: 

 epidermis a little silky, but shining when rubbed, greenish yellow, 

 with scarcely perceptible rays, and often clouded with bluish green: 

 beaks eroded and the sculpture not seen; hinge curved; pseudo- 

 cardinals radiate, rather stumpy ; two laterals in the left valve and 

 one and a vestige of a second in the right ; beak cavities moderate, 

 but compressed; nacre whitish, often blotched with brown, irides- 

 cent behind. 



Length 43, height 28, diam. 18 mm. 



Little Patsaliga creek, southeast Alabama. 



This groups with P. strodeana B. H. Wright and P. simulans 

 Lea, but is perfectly distinct. 



Pleurobema reolusa B. H. Wright. PI. I, fig. 2. 



Unio redusiis B. H. Wright, Naut., XI, 1893, p. 111. 

 Closely related to P. harperi and bulbosa. 



Pleurobema argentea pannosa Simpsou. 



Shell rather solid, irregularly and rudely concentrically striate; 

 epidermis where fresh somewhat clothlike, tawny or brownish. 



White river and Hot Springs, Ark. 



•Possibly a variety of P. argentea, but it may prove to be a dis- 

 tinct species. 



Genus QUADRULA (Rafinesque) Agassiz. 

 Quadrula rudis Simpson. PI. Ill, lig. 2. 



Shell large, long quadrate, inflated, solid, with high beaks, 

 curved inward and forward, having apparently delicate corrugated 

 sculpture, a decided, sharp, curved posterior ridge ending in a 

 bluQt point at the posterior base, in front of which the basal line 

 is incurved, anterior end rounded, posterior end an even curve from 

 the ligament to the postbase; epidermis brownish, rough, rayless; 

 surface sulcate and, excepting the later growth, covered with 

 sharply elevated small pustules which are sometimes united; hinge 

 curved ; a single very large pseudo-cardinal in the right valve which 

 fits in a cavity of the left, around which there is a liigh ridge 

 which develops into a high tooth behind tlie cavity; under the 

 beaks is a sort of lunulo which is extended inward across the hinge 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 83 



plate, which is partly filled with epidermis; laterals curved, rather 

 delicate; anterior scars deep, those of the adductor very rough iu 

 the centre; posterior scars shallow, beak cavities very deep, slightly 

 compressed ; front part of the shell greatly thickened ; nacre soft, 

 creamy white. 



Length 103, height 65, diam. 45 mm. 



Rio Taxtuuilha, Guatemala. 



A single shell, the type, is in the Lea collection, presented to 

 Dr. Lea by C. M. Wheatley, and labelled by the latter Unio 

 psoriacus Morelet. It is e\ddently not that species, and is, I 

 think, new. The type is nearly decorticated. 



Quadrula guatemalensis Simpson. PI. II, fig. 4. 



Shell rather small, subrhomboid, solid, scarcely inflated, with a 

 low posterior ridge, above which it is faintly biangulate; beaks 

 moderate, their sculpture not seen; surface sulcate, covered through- 

 out, with rather obsolete pustules and corrugations; epidermis dark 

 brown, rough, rayless; there are two partially united pseudo- 

 cardinals in the left valve, with a pit between them, into Avhich the 

 large tooth of the right valve fits; under and behind the beaks on 

 the hinge plate is a deposit of epidermal matter; beak cavities 

 moderately deep; nacre coppery purple. 



Length 45, height 27, diam. 14 mm. 



Rio Usumasintse, Guatemala. 



The only shell seen, the type, is pi'obably young. It does not 

 agree with anything I can find described, though it seems to come 

 nearest to Q. ostreata. 



Quadrula triumphans B. H. Wright. PI. Ill, fig. 3. 



U7iio triumphans B. H. Wright, Naut., XI, 1898, p. 101. 



A fine shell which has characters like those of Q. boykiniana 

 and muUiplicata, but which, I think, is neither. 

 Quadrula flexuosa Simpson. PL II, fig. 8. 



Shell subtriangular, soUd, inflated, with a faintly double poste- 

 rior ridge, rounded in front and slightly incurved at the posterior 

 base; beaks high, eroded in the only specimen seen; a low, wide, 

 radiating depression leads from them down to the base; epidermis 

 roughly concentrically striate, tawny to brownish, showing the rest 

 marks; hinge plate wide and flat; pseudo-cardinals low, diverging, 

 ragged; laterals straight, short, two in each valve; anterior adduc- 




84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900 



tor scars deep, rough; posterior scars distinct; nacre lurid whitish, 

 dull. 



Length 65, height 55, diam. 33 mm. 



Ho]ston river, Tennessee. Collection of L, S. Frierson, 



Apparently nearest to Q. pleiia, but not so high or inflated. 

 Genus NODULARIA Conrad. 



Shell elliptical to elongated, inflated; beaks not prominent, sculp- 

 tured with some form of zigzag, radiating sculpture, which often 

 extends over part or all of the shell; epidermis generally greenish, 

 often bright; hinge provided with pseudo-cardinals and laterals 

 which are usually somewhat compressed; beak cavities shallow ; 

 nacre whitish. Marsupium occupying tlie inner gills only. 

 Nodularia cylindracea Simpson. 



Vnio gray amis Schrenck (non Lea), Reis. und Forsch. im Amur- 

 Lande, 1867, p. 694, PI. XXVII, figs. 1-3. 



Shell greatly elongated, inflated , ratiier solid and plightly arcuate, 

 very inequilateral, rounded in front, with a low, rounded posterior 

 ridge which runs to the postbase, where the shell ends in a some- 

 what rounded point, above which it is obliquely subtruncated ; 

 ligament large, long; surface apparently without sculpture save 

 for slight concentric ridges; epidermis thick, brown, and in the 

 shell figured cracking and peeling off"; dorsal line wavy at the hinder 

 end where the point of the shell turns a little to the right; pseudo- 

 cardinals apparently broken up into several slightly curved denticles; 

 anterior muscle scars deep and large. 



Length 155, height 45, diameter 38 mm. 



China. 



Schrenck supposes this to be Lea's Unio grayaniis, which is a 

 smaller shell, is always more or less nodulous and corrugated, and 

 has a pinched up posterior ridge and ditievent pseudo-cardinals. He 

 has three shells from a London dealer said to come from China. 

 The specimen figured is very badly eroded on the dorsal region, 

 and is apparently damaged at the postbase, while the heavy epider- 

 mis has peeled off" in a number of places. I do not think it should 

 group with N. grayana. 



Genus PSEUDODON Gould. 

 Pseudodon loomisi Simpsou. PI. IV, fig. 7. 



Shell elongated elliptical and slightly obovate, somewhat in- 

 flated, rather thin; beaks not high, the sculpture not seen; poste- 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 85 



rior ridge low, rounded; posterior slope having a few corrugations 

 running'in a nearly horizontal direction, the rest of the shell nearly 

 smooth; ^epidermis black, rayless; there is a single rather elevated 

 tooth in each valve, there being a vestige of a second in the right 

 valve; laterals represented by a low, rounded ridge; beak cavities 

 shallow ; muscle scars well marked ; nacre pale bluish, becoming a 

 lurid salmon in the cavities. 



Length 73, height 37, diam. 23 mm. 



Asaka, Japan. Loomis. 



This seems to be a rather peculiar Pseudodon. 



EXPLANATIOX OF PLATES 

 Plate^I. 



Unio viHosus B. H. Wright, p. 77. 

 Lhiio redusHs B. H. Wright, p. 82. 

 Unio strodeanus B. H. Wright, p. 81. 

 Lampsills mearnsi Simpson, p. 75. 

 Unio tvalkeri B. H. Wright, p. 77. 

 Unio buxtoni B. H. Wright, p. 80. 

 Unio kirklandianus S H. Wright, p. 76. 

 Unio jyinhtoni S. H. Wright, p. 81. 

 Unio dispalans B. H. Wright, p. 80, 

 Unio harperi B. H. Wright, p. 81. 



Plate II] 



Fig. 1. Pleiirobema patsaligensis Simpson, p. 82. 



Fig. 2. Lampsilis amtralis Simpson, p. 75. 



Fig 3. Nephronaias reticulatus Simpson, p. 77. 



Fig. 4. Quadrula guatemalen-ns Simpson, p. 83. 



Fig. 5. Lampsilis fallaciosus (Smith) Simpson, p. 74. 



Fig. 6. Pleurobema aveUana Simpson, p. 81. 



Fig. 7. Pleiij'obema avellana Simpson, p. 81. 



Fig. 8. Quadrula flex uosa Simpson, p. 83. 



Plate III. 



Fig. 1. Unio pinei B. H. Wright, p. 80. 



Fig. 2, Quadrula rudis Simpson, p. 82. 



Fig. 3. Unio trvumphans B. H. Wright, p. 83. 




36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Plate IV. 



Fig. 1. Lnio conjufjans B. H. Wright, p. 79. 



Fig. 2. Unio rotulatus B. H. Wright, p. 78. 



Fig. 3. Unio tinheri B. H. Wright, p. 78. 



Fig. 4. Unio swordianns ^. H. Wright, p. 81. 



Fig. 5. Unio iheringi B. H. Wright, p. 79. 



Fig. 6. Unio hrimleyi S. H. Wright, p. 80. 



Fig. 7. Pseudodon loomisi Simpson, p. 84. 



Fig. 8. Unio burtchianus B. H. Wright, p. 80. 



Fig. 9. Unio lehmani S. H. Wright, p. 80. 



Plate V. 



Fig. 1. Lamp-nils brittsi Simpson, female, p. 76. 

 Fig. 2. Lamjmlis brittsi Simpson, male, p. 76. 

 Fig. 3. Ptychobranchus dintonensis Simpson, p. 79. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 87 



February 6. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 

 Thirteen persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication: 



" Additions to the Insular Land-shell Fauna of the Pacific 

 Coast, especially of the Galapagos and Cocos Islands," by Wil- 

 ham Healey Dall. 



" Xotes on the Anatomy of the Helicid. Genus Ashmunella, " by 

 Henry A. Pilsbry. 



" MoEusca of the Great Smoky Mountains," by Henry A. 

 Pilsbry. 



February 13. 

 Charles Schaeffer, ^I.D., in the Chair. 

 Twenty-three persons present. 



A paper entitled " Descriptions of Xew Bees Collected by Mr. 

 H. H. Smith in Brazil. I," by T. D. A. Cockerell, was presented 

 for publication. 



The death of James B. England, a member, was announced. 



February 20. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 

 Sixteen persons present. 



February 27. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixox, M.D., in the Chair. 



Sixteen persons present. 



The death of Ernest B. Sangree, M.D , a member, was announced. 

 Harry G. Parker was elected a member. 



Henri Lacaze-Duthiers, of Paris, and Frederick W. True, of 

 Washington, were elected correspondents. 



The following were ordered to be published: 




88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



ADDITIONS TO THE INSULAR LAND-SHELL FAUNAS OF THE PACIFIC 

 COAST, ESPECIALLY OF THE GALAPAGOS AND COCOS ISLANDS 



BY WILLIAM HEALEY BALL. 



Several expeditions, during the last five years, have made collec- 

 tions on islands lying off the Pacific coast of America, south of the 

 United States. Material from most of them came into my hands 

 for examination, or as the property of the National Museum. 



In 1896, Mr. A. W. Anthony, of San Diego, Cal., undertook 

 a collecting tour along the west coast of Lower California, touch- 

 ing at Rosalia Bay and Guadelupe, Cerros, San Martin, San 

 Benito and Natividad Islands. The collection of land shells in- 

 cluded several novelties and was acquired hy the Xatioual Museum. 

 A subsequent visit to Clarion Island was less lucky : the few land 

 shells obtained were put into formalin solution, which destroyed 

 them utterly before they could be identified. 



Guadelupe has been visited by ]Mr. C. H. Townsend, of the 

 U. S, Fish Commission, and the Coronado Islands and Tiburon by 

 parties from San Diego, from whom small lots of material have 

 been obtained. 



In 1898-99 a party from Stanford University visited Guadelupe, 

 Cocos and the Galapagos Islands, particularly exploring the less- 

 known islets of the latter groiip. 



The party consisted of Mr. R. E. Snodgrass and Mr. Edmund 

 Heller, who, through the generosity of ^Ir. Timothy Hojikins, of 

 Menlo Park, Cal., were able to take passage on a sealing schooner 

 from San Francisco, commanded by Captain AV. P. Xoyes. The 

 time from December, 1898, to July, 1899, was spent in the work. 

 The attempt was made to spend as much time as possible on the 

 less-known islands. A week was given to Chatham, ten days to 

 Charles, but Tagus Cove, Elizabeth Bay and Iguana Cove, all 

 on Albemarle Island, were given three months. Xarborough had 

 never been visited by collectors and Abingdon but rarel;^. On 

 Bindloe, Mr. Snodgrass made careful search, but could find no 

 traces of the species reported from it. 



Through the kindness of President Jordan and Mr. R. E. Snod- 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 89 



gras?, I have been able to examine and report upon the land shells 

 of this expedition. All this material being of a congruent nature, 

 the results obtained from a study of it may properly be assembled 

 in a single paper. 



The present publication may be regarded as a supplement to that 

 published in the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 for 1896, pages 395-479, which was largely based on the collec- 

 tions made at the Galapagos by the late Prof. G. Baur. 



Species from the Galapagos Islands. 



The Stanford expedition collected land shells at Chatham, Hood, 

 Charles, Barrington, Duncan, Albemarle, Narborough, James and 

 Abingdon, islands of the group. From Narborough and Abing- 

 don no collections had previously beeu made, but curiously enough 

 no new species turned up on either. Narborough is probably the 

 youngest island of the group, being actively volcanic in historic^ 

 times; so perhaps its land shells are comparatively new immigrants 

 from Albemarle, its nearest neighbor. But Abingdon, so small, 

 distant and isolated, would have been expected to furnish some 

 new material. 



It was something of a surprise to find two new species from 

 Albemarle out of ten collected, and three from Hood, all rhat 

 were collected. 



The additions to previously published lists of known species are 

 three each to Albemarle and Narborough, six to Abingdon and one 

 to Barrington. 



The references are to my paper above cited of 1896, where the 

 synonymy is given in full, and the species are here given in the 

 same order, with the intercalation of those supposed lo be new. 



Bulimulus nux Broderip. 



BuUmulus mix Dall, 1896, p. 429, PI. XVI, fig. 6, PI. XYII. fig. 10. 



Charles and Chatham Islands, Snodgrass and Heller. 



The collection of B. nux was not very large, but contained the 

 banded variety (^B. unifasciatus Reibisch uon Sowerby) and the 

 pale form, approaching rugulosus, which Reibisch named invalidus. 



Bulimnlus duncanus Dall. 



Bulimulus duncanus Dall, 1896, p. 438, PL XA'I, fig. 7. 

 Duncan Island, Snodgrass and Heller. 

 As in previous cases, all the specimens were dead, and those 




90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



collected were not quite mature as the parietal denticle had ap- 

 peared in none of them. The species is probably extinct, 

 Bulimulus escliariferus Sower by. 



BuUmulus eschariferus Dall, 1896, p. 434. 



Chatham and Barringlon Islands, Snodgrass and Heller, 



This species had not been found at Barrington previously, 

 Bulimulus Snodgrassi n. sp. Plate VIII, fig. 2. 



Bidiiimlns having the general form of B. perspectivus Pfr., with 

 a distinct suture and eight polished moderately convex whorls ; 

 apex attenuated, nucleus livid, with an apical dimple and fine 

 regular ribbing which becomes obsolete on later whorls; there 

 is also on the first four whorls more or less spiral sculpture of 

 microscopically fine lines, which also disappear on later whorls; 

 subsequent whorls smooth or Avith fine incremental lines; upper 

 whorls dark purplish brown, later ones a little paler, with a narrow 

 paler band just behind the suture, which on the last whorl becomes 

 sti'ongly marked, with a dark reddish narrower band on each side 

 of it, and traces of another at the suture; in some specimens the 

 dark coloration covers the whole surface on each side of the per- 

 ipheral pale band, but inside the aperture the bands can always be 

 distinguished; l)ase rounded about a well-marked umbilicus ; aper- 

 ture small, ovate, marginally thickened and slightly expanded, but 

 not reflected ; a narrow band of callus over the body connects the 

 posterior ends of the lips ; i)illar broad, slightly swollen, external 

 coloration visible in the throat. Alt. of shell 17, of aperture 5.2, 

 diam. of shell 6, of aperture 4 mm. 



Hood Island, Snodgrass and Heller; numerous. 



This species is smaller than B. penpectiviis and differently colored, 

 but belongs to the same group. 



Bulimulus approximatus u- sp. Plate VIII, fig. 4. 



Shell belonging to the type of B. mix and B. ruqu/osus with 

 seven pretty evenly tapered whorls, with a distinct suture ; uucleu.s 

 as in the last species, livid, but the early whorls bear no traces of 

 revolving lines; whorls uioderately convex, base evenly rounded; 

 sculpture, on the later whorls, only of faint incremental lines; 

 umbilicus small and narrow, aperture rather elongate. Alt. of shell 

 17.5, diam. 8 mm. 



Hood Island, Snodgrass and Holler. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 91 



A single specimen of this shell was obtained Avhich differs from 

 all the others of the uux group in the absence of spiral sculpture 

 and the smooth and polished surface. The peristome is not quite 

 matured, so it cannot be determined whether it is reflected or not, 

 but the probabilities are in favor of its being simple and unre- 

 flected. 



Bulimulus hoodensis u- sp. Plate VIII, fig. i. 



Shell allied to B. umfasclatus Sby., but smaller, with about six 

 convex, rapidly tapering whorls; nucleus sculptured as usual in 

 the group, livid purple ; later whorls smooth, polished, with no 

 sculpture but faint incremental lines; color light yellowish brown, 

 with two broad reddish purple spiral bands nearly peripheral, and 

 a narrower one in front of the suture; base evenly rounded, with 

 a narrow but deep umbilicus: aperture ovate-oblong, the peristome 

 white, thickened and distinctly reflected; pillar broad, white, not 

 swollen, a thin wash of callus over the body, the external colora- 

 tion distinct within the aperture. Alt. of shell 18, of aperture 

 8.5, diam. of shell 8.5, of aperture 6 mm. 



Hood Island, Snodgrass and Heller. 



This well-marked form more nearly resembles some of the con- 

 tinental species than the typical Xaisioti. The distinctly reflected 

 lip and rapid enlargement of the whorls distinguish it from any 

 other Galapagos species. 

 Bulimulus jacobi Sowerby. 



Bulimulus jacohi Dall, 1896, p. 436. 



This seems to be the commonest and, among the islands, the 

 most generally distributed species of the Galapagos. It was ob- 

 tained by Messrs. Snodgrass and Heller at James and Albemai'le, 

 where it was previously known, and also from Xarborough and 

 Abingdon, where it had not previously been reported. There is 

 not a gi'eat deal of variation in the specimens, which were found 

 at elevations of from 1, 700 to 2,000 feet. The form named cinereus 

 by Reibisch was obtained at Iguana Cove, Albemarle Island, and 

 the variety acutus Eeibisch, at a height of 3,000 feet, near 

 Tagus Cove, Albemarle Island. The sjDecies is usually found 

 under flat pieces of rock, and a large proportion of the specimens 

 are dead. 




92 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Bulimulus curtus Reibisch. 



Buliiiiulus (amastroides var. ?) curtus Dall, 1896, p. 442, Pi. XV, fig. 

 13, Pi. XVII, fig. 8. 



Chatham Island, Saodgrass and Heller ; also Baur, Wolf and 

 the U. S. Fish Commission. 



Bulimulus rugiferus Sowerby. 



Bulimulus rugifei'us Dall, 1896, p. 443. 



James Island, Cuming. 



A single specimen of a very young shell probably belonging to 

 this species was obtained by Messrs. Snodgrass and Heller. 



Bulimulus Tanneri Dall. 



Bulimulus tanneri Dall, 1896, p. 438, PI. XVI, fig. 3. 



Tagus Cove, Albemarle Island, Snodgrass and Heller. 



This speciea was previously known only from Indefatigable 

 Island, Avhere it was collected by the U. S. Fish Commission. 

 The present specimens are not fully grown and do not show the 

 broadly reflected lip. 

 Bulimulus indefatigabilis Dall, uom. nov. 



Bulimulus n. sp. Dall, 1896, p. 444, PI. XV, fig. 15. 



One specimen found on James and two on Indefatigable Island, 

 according to Reibisch. 



In 1896, to complete my monograph of the Galapagos shells, I 

 figured and described this shell but left it unnamed, thinking Herr 

 Reibisch himself intended to name it. But the years have passed 

 by and I have been unable to renew communication with that 

 gentleman, who is, I am informed, absorbed in other pursuits, so I 

 take this opportunity of applying a name to this shell. 



Guppya Bauri Dall. 



? Trochomorpha Bauri Dall, 1896, p. 447, PI. XV, ligs. 8, 9. 

 Abingdon Island, at an elevation of 1,700 feet, Snodgrass and 

 Heller; Albemarle Island, Baur. 



The specimens of this species obtained by Mr. Suodgraas were 

 dead and discolored, but the identification is complete. This is a 

 new locality for the species. 

 Conulus galapaganus Dall. 



Conulus ;/<ih(p<if/(iNus Dall, 1896, p. 448, PI. XV, fig. 11. 

 Chatham Island, at 1,600 feet, Baur; Abingdon Island, at 1,700 

 feet, Snodgrass and Heller; numerous. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. t>3 



Quite a number of these were obtaiued but mostly in poor con- 

 dition. It was previously known only from Chatham Island. 



Vitrea chathamensis Dall. 



Vitrea chathamensis Dall, 1896, p. 448, PI. XV, figs. 3, 10. 



Chatham Island, 1,600 feet, Baur; Abingdon Island, 1,700 feet, 

 Snodgrass and Heller. 



Good specimens of this species were obtained by Mr, Snodgrass. 



It was previously known only from Chatham Island, by a single 

 specimen. 

 Vitrea aotinopliora n. sp. PI. VIII, figs, il, 16, 17. 



Shell small with four brilliantly polished, subtranslucent, oliva- 

 ceous whorls; spire depressed but slightly rounded, with a distinct 

 suture; nuclear whorl and a half smooth, succeeding whorls near 

 the suture with well-defined close-set incised lines in harmony with 

 the lines of growth but short, rarely extending to the periphery ; 

 last whorl evenly rounded, base smooth, convex, with a narrow 

 deep umbilicus; aperture oblique, hardly expanded, the peristome 

 sharp, thin, the pillar and outer lips not approximated. Major 

 diam. 4, minor diam. 3.2, alt. 2 mm. 



Top of mountain near Tagus Cove, Albemarle Island, Snodgrass 

 and Heller. 



This belongs to the group of F. radiatula Alder, but is suffi- 

 ciently distinguished by its sculpture and umbilicus; the last whorl 

 is also proportionally smaller. 

 Endodonta Helleri n. sp. PI. VIII, figs. 7, 8, 9. 



Shell small, solid, pale olivaceous gray, with about five sharply 

 sculptured, acutely keeled whorls ; nucleus smooth, the succeeding 

 whorls with close, oblique, evenly . spaced, elevated lamellte in har- 

 mony with the hues of growth, and covering both the upper and 

 lower surface of the shell; spire elevated, domelike, the surface of 

 the whorls somewhat flattened with the periphery narrowly com- 

 pressed forming a sharp marginated keel; base rounded with a 

 rather wide and deep umbilicus; aperture oblique, the peristome 

 widely reflected and thickened except at the upper angle which 

 is appressed against the keel of the prior whorl; interior of the 

 aperture with a narrow low rounded parietal lamella running far 

 into the throat ; on the basal side, a fourth of a whorl behind the 

 aperture, two narrow white patches are seen through the shell, indi- 




94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



eating the presence of Iwo short basal lamellse. Major diam. 3, 

 minor diam. 2.6, alt. 1.75 mm. 



Near Iguana Cove, Albemarle Island, at an elevation of 2,000 

 feet, Snodgrass and Heller. 



This very characteristic and elegant little shell adds a represen- 

 tative of a genus and family new to the Galapagos fauna. 



Pupa Wolfii Miller. 



Pupa {LeucocMla?) wolfii Dall, 1896, p. 446, PI. XVII, fig. 14. 



Guayaquil, Ecuador, Wolf; Albemarle Island, near the sea 

 level. Wolf and Baur ; near Tagus Cove, Albemarle, on leaves of 

 Oroton; near Iguana Cove, Albemarle, at 2,000 feet elevation; 

 Narborough Island, Snodgrass and Heller; abundant. 



This species was usually found, when alive, on leaves of plants. 

 It seems to be common and many of the specimens approximate in 

 the characters of the armature of the mouth to P. clausa. Their 

 distinctness cannot yet be said to be demonstrated. 



Pupa olausa Reibisch. 



Pupa clausa Dall, 1896, p. 447. 



On bushes near the sea. Indefatigable Island, Wolf ; Abingdon 

 and Narborough Islands, near the sea level, Snodgrass and 

 Heller. 



These localities are additional to that of Wolf, which was the 

 only one previously known for this rather doubtful species. 



Suooinea Bettii Smith. 



Succinea bettii Dall, 1896, p. 448, PI. XV, fig. 6. 



Previously known from Charles, James and Chatham Islands; 

 Iguana Cove, Albemarle and James Island, Snodgrass and Hel- 

 ler; variety Wolfii Reibisch, at 1,700 feet elevation, Abingdon 

 Island, 2,000 feet elevation near Iguana Cove, Albemarle Island, 

 Snodgrass and Heller. 



This species appears to be common and is doubtless widely 

 diffused among the islands. 

 Suooinea brevier (Smith). 



Succinea brevior Dall, 1896, p. 449, PI. XV, fig. 4, PI. XVI, fie. 8, 



ri. XVII, fig. y. 

 At 1,000 feet elevation, on shrubbery, near Black Beach, 

 Charles Island, Baur ; Charles Island, Snodgrass and Heller. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 95 



Suocinea producta (Reibisch). 



Sucemea producta Ball, 1896, p. 449, PI. XV, fig. 7, PI. XVI, fig. 10, 

 PI. XVII, fig. 5. 



Chatham Island, on lichen -covered rocks at 900 to 2,000 feet 

 elevation, Wolf and Baur; Chatham and Narborough Islands, 

 Snodgrass and Heller. 



The last locality is a new one for the species. 



Suocinea oorbis Dall. 



Saccinea corhis Dall, 1896, p. 450, PL XV, fig. 5. 



South Albemarle Island, on dry bones of turtles, Dr. Baur ; 

 Iguana Cove, Albemarle Island, and also on James Island. Snod- 

 grass and Heller. 



The specimens obtained by Messrs. Snodgrass and Heller were less 



strongly reticulate than the original type, but on examination in a 



good light and strong magnification the characteristic sculpture 



was detected. 



Tornatellina chathamensis Dall. 



Leptinaria chathamensis Dall, 1896, p. 451, PI. XVI, fig. 9, PI. XVII, 

 fig. 16. 



Chatham Island, on ferns at 1,600-2, 000 feet above the sea, also 

 South Albemarle Island, Baur; Iguana Cove, Albemarle Island, 

 Snodgrass and Heller. 



In his revision of certain Stenogyridce, Dr. Pilsbry has shown 

 that the small forms, often called Leptinaria, Avhich are allied to 

 and perhaps were the original root stock of the Achatinellidce, must 

 take the name Tornatellina, while the very similar shells with a 

 Stenogyroid radula will be called Leptinaria. Hence the shell 

 described by me as Leptinaria chathamensis will now take its place 

 as a Tornatellina. 



The close resemblance between many of tlie non-arboreal 

 minuter Achatinellas and Tornatellina is sufficiently obvious. The 

 anatomy confirms the relationship intimated by the shell charac- 

 ters. Add to this that the only fossil (possibly Pliocene) Achati- 

 nellas yet observed belong to this dwarfish dull-colored group, and 

 the hypothesis that Achatinella originally sprang from a Tertiary 

 Tornatellina-\ike immigrant, borne, perhaps, on the wings of the 

 wind, from other islands of the Pacific, does not seem to be very 

 far-fetched. 




96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [190O 



Helicina nesiotica Dall. 



HtUcina ildesa) nesiotica Dall, 1896, p. 451, PI. XV, figs. 1, 2, PI. 

 XVII, fig. 12. 



Chatham Island, on leaves at 1,600 feet, Baur; top of mountain, 

 near Tagus Cove, Albemarle, also near Iguana Cove, Albemarle, 

 Snodgrass and Heller. 



It is quite likely that this inconspicuous species may exist on all 

 the islands, and the . new material obtained during this the latest 

 expedition may serve to confirm the opinion that the islands are 

 still not sufficiently explored to warrant final conclusions on 

 interislaud distribution. 



Cocos Island Species. 



Cocos Island is a remote volcanic islet, about half-way between 

 the Galapagos Idands and the Panamic Isthmus in a north-north- 

 easterly direction. The only reference to its land shells I have 

 found is a short paper by von Martens^ on a small collection of 

 small land shells obtained by Herr Pittier in June, 1898. These 

 comprised four species of which one was an undetermined si^ecies 

 of Conalics. 



Messrs. Snodgrass and Heller obtained also four species, one of 

 which appears to be identical with one of von ^lartens', the other 

 three to be undescribed. 



I have had the valuable advice of Dr. H. A. Pilsbrs' in the 

 determination of these shells, and it appears that the revision of 

 the group containing Subul-ina, etc., leaves in the genus Leptinaria 

 the Achatinoid forms which have, like these from Cocoa Island, 

 the dentition of Sfenor/yra, while to Tornatellina will fall those 

 having a radula recalling Achafinel/a, such as the species described 

 by me under the name of Leptinaria chathamensis. 



The list of "Cocos Island species, so far known, will be as 

 follows : 



Conuhts sp. 



Guppya Hopkinsil Dall. On leaves. 



Leptinaria {XeosubHlina) Pittieri (von Martens). 



Leptinaria (^Neosubulina) Marten^i Dall. Under stones. 



Opeas juncea (Gould). 



' Sitzungsberichte der Gesellschaft Naturforschender Preunde zu Ber- 

 lin, pp. 156-160, 1898. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 97 



Vertigo cocosensis Dall. On leaves. 



Succinea glohkpira von Martens. On leaves. 



Siphonaria fjirjcis Sowerby and Melampus panameiuis C. B. 

 Adams were obtained by the U. S, Fish Commission from the 

 beaches of Cocos Island in 1888. 

 Guppya Hopkinsii n. sp. PI. Yill, figs. 5, 6. 



Shell small, with 5h whorls, of a reddish horu-color when fresh, 

 polished below; above, the surface is dulled by fine close even 

 striation in harmony with the lines of growth crossed by a micro- 

 scopic, partly obsolete spiral striation; spire moderately elevated, 

 nepiouic whorls polished, the sutures very distinct, the whorls rounded 

 between them; base evenly rounded, the periphery of the last 

 whorl situated in the path of the suture as it advances and not in 

 the middle of the whorl; umbilical region impressed, imperforate; 

 aperture lunate, wider than high, the margins acute, the parietal 

 surface without callus and polished. Alt. 4. 2, lat. 6 mm. 



Cocos Island, on leaves. Heller and Suodgrass, 1899. 



This is a very neat little shell in which the reddish color of the 

 living form seems to fade to a pale yellowish after the animal has 

 been some time removed. It seems to have been not uncommon. 

 It is named in honor of Mr. Timothy Hopkins, patron of the 

 expedition. An examination of the animal by Dr. Pilsbry has 

 settled the genus. 

 Leptinaria (Neosubulina > Martensi n. sp. PI. VIII, fig. 10. 



Shell small, of a yellowi.-h-green color, polished, with oh whorls, 

 a rather blunt apex and distinct suture ; under magnification the 

 upper whorls are seen to be minutely axially wrinkled, most dis- 

 tinctly so in front of the suture, but, in the later whorls, this 

 sculpture becomes obsolete. There is also a fine obscure spiral 

 striation and in certain spots, under magnification, the two series 

 of lines form a faint reticulation. The shell has much the gen- 

 eral form of Cochlicopa lubrica, the aperture is small, semilunate, 

 the pillar obliquely truncated, somewhat thickened at the twisted 

 edge; on the body is a very prominent projecting lamina which 

 extends inside the shell for about one whorl, projects at the mouth 

 half-way to the outer lip and is united to the pillar and outer lip 

 by a thin callus ; the outer lip is not reflected, but is not sharp- 

 edged in the adult ; directly opposite the parietal lamella is a sin- 




98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



gle thickened spiral ridjje, but little elevated, and extending 

 inward about one-third of the last whorl. Alt. of shell 10, of 

 aperture 4.25 ; lat. of shell 4, of aperture 2 mm. 



Cocos Island, under stones, Heller and Snodgrass. 



An immature dextral specimen among the seven sinistral L. Pit- 

 tieri v. Marts, may have belonged to this species. It differs from 

 that species by being dextral, by having the mouth larger in pro- 

 portion to the spire, and in ha\ang one less whorl in a somewhat 

 greater length. The specimens were strongly contracted in 

 alcohol but presented the general appearance of Stenogyra, with 

 which the short and broad, very small, radula fully agrees. The 

 partitions of the upper whorls are not absorbed. The foot is 

 entire and quite small. I could detect no jaw nor eyes, but the 

 tentacles were inverted. It seems, according to Dr. Pilsbry, that 

 Leptinaria is the proper name for thase stenogyxoid forms with 

 dentition of Achatina, while Tornatcllina includes those with 

 achatinelloid teeth. Consequently Neosubulina, which was founded 

 chiefly on these distinctions, is, at most, hardly of more than sec- 

 tional value. The resemblance to Stolidoma Desh. is quite marked,, 

 but they may be discriminated by the apical characters of the shell. 



Vertigo cocosensis n. sp. PI. VIII. fig. 13. 



Shell small, reddish brown, rather pointed, with nearly five 

 rounded whorls; apex paler, polished, rather blunt; last whorl 

 much the largest; base rounded with a well-marked umbilical pit; 

 aperture wider behind, the posterior part of the outer lip and the 

 pillar lip broadly reflected, the anterior outer and basal margin 

 luirx'ow; the pillar and outer lip united by a thin callus; lamella? 

 according lo Sterki's formula .ABDE, comprising one columeliar 

 and two parietal folds, and, on the outer wall well within the peri- 

 stome, two narrow little-elevated ridges, of which the anterior is 

 shorter. . Axial length of shell 2.2, of aperture .8, width of last 

 whorl l.T), of aperture .8 mm. 



Cocos Island, on leaves. Heller and Snodgrass. 



The chief peculiarity of this species is that the surface, which 

 looks silky under an ordinary hand lens, when more magnified is 

 seen to be punctate all over, recalling l'. rarlolom Gould, of 

 Florida, which, however, difters in form, size and dental arma- 

 ture. 




1900.] >'ATLRAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 99 



Succinea globispira vou Martens. 



S. globispira v. Mts., Sitzb. Ges. Xaturf. Freunde zii Berlin, p. 158, 

 1898. 



Cocos Isand, on leaves, Heller and Snodgrass. 



This is a rather rude, short-spired form of a yellowish-white 

 color, and which covers itself in life with pellets of its ovm ex- 

 creta. It does not seem to be abundant. 



Species from the California^ Islands. 



Epiphragmophora VeatcMi (Xewcomb). 



Arionta Vtntchii Xewcoinb (MS.) Tryon, Am. Joui'd. Conch., II. p. 

 316, PL 22 (5), fig. 19; PL 23 (6), fig. 6, Oct., 1866; IIL p. 162, 

 1867. 



Cerros Island, off Lower California, in about X. Lat. 28°, 

 Veatch (1859), Anthony (1896). 



This splendid shell is well suited to its arid environment, since 

 Stearns had a specimen collected by Veatch which only issued from 

 behind its epiphragm in 1865, having been kept six years in a dry 

 box without food or moisture. 

 Epiphragmophora leucanthea n. sp. PI. VIII, figs. IS, 20. 



Shell with five and a half rather convex whorls; pale lavender, 

 nearly white below, with an ob^^olete white peripheral band, above 

 which the whorl is more or less tinged with pale bluish gray; a 

 translucent band above the peripheral one through which the dark 

 brown with which the interior of the whorls is lined may show 

 through more or less distinctly; nuclear whorls with wavy radial 

 strise, visible under a lens, for a whorl and a half, translucent; 

 succeeding whorls opaque, except as stated, polished, with rather 

 distinct incremental lines and obsolete vermiculations or mallea- 

 tions ; base rounded, perforate, with the umbilicus nearly closed by 

 the columellar reflection; aperture rounded, the outer lip slightly 

 reflected, white, with the throat brown internally; body without 

 caUus, pillar short, arcuate, with no thickening or denticle upon 

 it. Major diam. 28, minor 23.5, alt. of shell 20, of aperture 

 15 mm. 



Eastern side of Cerros Island, Anthony, 1896. 



This is evidently a derivative from E. Veatchii, from which it 

 differs in the absence of the numerous interrupted brown bands, in 

 the usually blunter and lower spire and more distinct and deeper . 

 sutures. 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Epiphragmophora areolata (Sowerby). 



Helix areolata Sowerby (MSS.). Pfeiffer, Zeitschr. fur Mai., II, p. 154, 



1845. 

 Polymita areolata Tryon, Am. Journ. Conch., II, p. 319, PI. 23 (6), 



fig. 5, 1866. 



Margarita Bay, L. Cal., Newcomb; Natividad Island, ten miles 

 south of Cerros Island, Anthony, 1896. 



This species was mistakenly referred to Oregon by Tryon, 

 Binney, in Land and Fresh-water Shells of North America, figures 

 for it a specimen of E. Veatchii (p. 177, fig. 311, two middle 

 figures) and one of E. levis Pfr. (ibid., two outer figures). 

 Though doubtless similar in origin and in coloration, areolata is 

 smaller than Veatchii and has a more depressed spire, and on the 

 whole is easily separable from the latter if a good series is com- 

 pared. 

 Epiphragmophora levis (Pfeiffer). 



Helix levis Pfr., Zeitschr. fiir Mai., II, p. 152, 1845 ; Binney. Land and 

 Fresh-water Sh. N. Am., I, p. 180, fig. 316, 1869. 



Rosalia Bay, mainland of Lower California, iuN. Lat. 28° 30', 

 Anthony, 1896. 



Erroneously referred to the Columbia river hy Pfeiffer. 

 Epiphragmophora crassula n. sp. PI. VIII, fig. 3. 



Shell small, solid and heavy, smooth, with five whorls; spire 

 rather pointed, suture distinct, not deep, last whorl evenly rounded 

 at the periphery; color opaque white with more or less numerous 

 very pale- brown subtranslucent spiral bands, all or part of which 

 may be absent; usually there is a peripheral white band and be- 

 tween it and the suture one or two translucent bands of which the 

 anterior is most constant; from two to four narrower translucent 

 bands may exist in front of the periphery; the base is rounded, 

 at first minutely perforate. Inter imperforate and sealed by a reflec- 

 tion of the pillar lip; aperture rounded, slightly oblique, with a 

 solid white, slightly reflected peristome, but no callUs on the body: 

 pillar broad, short with a conspicuous callosity. Alt. of shell 15, 

 of aperture 6, lat. of shell 15.5, of aperture 7.5 mm. 



Nati^'idad Island, ten miles south of Cerros Island, Anthony. 

 1896. 



This species is an offshoot of E. /«■!'/•* Pfr., from which it differs 

 by its smaller and much heavier shell, fewer whorls, conspicuous 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



peristome and narrower, fewer and less interrupted banding of a 

 paler tint. 



Epiphragmopliora pandorae (Forbes). 



Helix pandora Fbs., P. Z. S., 1850, p. 55, PI. IX, figs. 3a, 3b. 

 Helix damacenus GomIA, Proc. Bost. Soc. N. Hist., VI, p. 11, 1856. 



San Benito Island, east of Cerros, in X. Lat. 28° 16', Anthony, 

 1896; Santa Barbara, on Margarita Bay, L. Cal., Forbes. 



This is a well-marked species whieh varies from white to dark 

 gray above, and, below, may be white or banded with ashy gray. 

 The nucleus is, however, invariably of a livid purplish color and 

 the surface is dull and conspicuously striate. A typical specimen, 

 received by Dr. Lea from Forbes, is now in the National Museum. 



It differs from the San Benito shells chiefly in having the spire 

 less elevated and the whorls slightly flatter above. 



Epiphragmopliora Stearnsiana (Gabb). 



Helix Stearnsiana Gabb., Am. Joiiru. Conch., Ill, p. 235, PI. XVI, fig. 

 1, 1867. 



Lower California, from San Diego, Cal., south to San Tomas 

 river, Binney; San Martin Island, in K Lat. 30° 30', Anthony, 

 1896. 



These specimens do not seem to differ from those taken on the 

 mainland. 

 Epiphragmophora (Micrarionta) guadelupiana n- sp. Plate VIII, figs. 14, 15. 



Shell small, thin, depressed, of a dark-brownish color with a 

 narrow reddish band, bordered on each side by a pale streak, just 

 above the periphery ; spire little elevated, suture distinct; epider- 

 mis strong, in well-developed specimens slightly microscopically 

 hirsute; sculpture of well-marked incremental lines, stronger on 

 the spire, with occasional microscopic punctations; base more or 

 less flattened, the last whorl with the periphery somewhat above 

 the middle of the wdiorl, umbilicus narrow and deep; aperture 

 subcircular, very oblique wnth a strong whitish reflection of the 

 peristome, the ends of the lip on the body approximated, throat 

 with the bauds showing through. Alt. of shell 6, diam. 10.5, 

 aperture diam. 4.5 mm. 



Guadelupe Island, off" Lower California, in N. Lat. about 29°, 

 Anthony, 1896; Snodgrass and Heller, 1899. 



This very well-marked little species is nearest to E. catalince. but 

 is more depressed, wnth a larger umbilicus and difterently shaped 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



aperture. It seems to be tolerably abundant, though most of the 

 specimens received were defective. 



Epipliragmophora sp. indet. 



Among the shells collected by Anthony from Guadelupe Island, 

 was a single specimen of a species of Epiphragmophora consider- 

 ably lai'ger than the preceding, but which I am unable to identify 

 since it is not mature. There is a pale band and an almost obso- 

 lete reddish band at the periphery. It represents a species quite 

 unlike E. (/iiadelupjiana. 



Binneyia notabilis Cooper. 



Binneya notabilis Cooper, Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci., Ill, p. 62, 1863, with 

 figures. 



Santa Barbara Island, Cooper, 18H3; Guadelupe Island, An- 

 thony, 1896. 



This species appears to be abundant on Gaudelupe Island, but 

 owing to want of care in collecting few of the delicate shells 

 were intact when received. 



Succinea (rusticana Gld. var!?) guadelupensis r»all. PL VIII, fig. 12. 



Shell small, acutely pointed, strongly marked with incremental 

 lines; whorls very convex, with deep sutures; last whorl the 

 largest ; aperture small for the genus, oblique, with a well-marked 

 callus over the body. Lon. of shell 8.5, of aperture 5, of last 

 whorl 7, diam. of shell 5, of aperture 3.2 mm. 



Guadelupe Island, Anthony, 189H. 



This variety differs from S. rn4icana in its much smaller size 

 with the same number of whorls, also by the incurving outer lip 

 where it joins the body. The surface is rather coarsely striated 

 with incremental lines. The specimen obtained was dead, and the 

 color when fresh was doubtful, but the appearances indicate that 

 was pale yellow. It resembles a good deal Succinea corbis Dall 

 from tlie Galapagos, but is a broader shell and does not possess the 

 fine reticulate surface sculpture. It may very likely prove eventu- 

 ally to be of specific rank, but in the present state of our knowl- 

 edge of the American species I prefer to introduce this as a 

 variety. 




1900.] NATUKAI. SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



Epiphragmophora catalinae Dall. 



^'HelLc tenuistrifUa" W. G. Biuney (as mutation of H. Gabbi), Land 

 and Fresli-water Sh. N. Am., part I, p. 175, fig. 305, 1869 ; not of A. 

 Binney, 1842. 



Arionta Gabbi W. G. Binnev, Bull. U. S. Xat. Mus., No. 28, p. 148. 

 fig. 130, 1885. 



This form was collected ou Catalina Island by H. Hemphill, 

 find, while ob\aously a member of the Gabbi-facta group, seems 

 perfectly distinguishable from the other members of that group. 

 There is a very large series of Gabbi and facta in the collection of 

 the National Museum, and notwithstanding their variability I do 

 not find anv specimens which are not readily referred to one or 

 the other, and none intermediate between these and catalince. The 

 name tenuidriata had previously been used sj^ecifically by A. 

 Binney, and was repudiated for this shell by his son. As the 

 original te)addriata A. Binney has never been identified, and in 

 the case of the present species the name would have to rest anony- 

 mous, it seems better to apply a local name to it which is free from 

 any uncertainty. It has a small deep umbilicus partly shaded by 

 the reflected pillar hp and a broadly reflected peristome, the ends 

 of which upon the body are not approximated. It measures as 

 follows: Alt. of sheU 7, diam. 12, diam. aperture 4.5 mm. 

 There are five and a half rounded whorls and the entire shell is 

 finely spirally striate. It is also found fossil on Santa Barbara 

 Island, but the fossil specimens are often considerably larger than 

 the largest living specimens now known; one measures 15 mm. in 

 major diameter and nearly 10 mm. in height. 



Epiphragmophora Kellettii Forbes. 



Helix Kellettii Forbes, P. Z. S., 1850, p. 55, PI. IX, fig 2, a, b. 

 Epiphragmophora [Micrarioata) Kellettii Pilsbry, Cat. Land Sbells 

 of Am. North of Mex., p. 6, 1897. 



The measurements of the type are major diam. 22, minor diam. 

 19, alt. 19 mm. Xo locality is mentioned. A shell occurs on 

 San Clemente Island of the Santa Barbara group, \vhich has been 

 referred to Kellettii as a dwarf variety. I suspect it to be distinct, 

 but, at all events, it is sufficiently difierent to deserve a name : 

 Epiphragmophora (var. ?) Clementina Call. 



Shell small, thin, pale translucent brownish in color with obscure, 

 revolving series of very minute yellow or whitish flecks; whorls 

 four, the nucleus wrinkled transversely, reddish, slightly flattened, 

 the succeeding whorls rather convex with a distinct suture; a very 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



narrow dai-k reddish -brown band, with a hardly visible pale border 

 in front of it, revolves above the periphery; sculpture of rather 

 well-raaiiked incremental rug^e, cut on the upper part of the last 

 whoi'l by microscopic spiral striation, to which is added a partly 

 obsolete oblique striation which is visible, under magnification, 

 chiefly in patches; the eflect of the whole is to give the surface a 

 very fine shagrination; the last whorl near the aperture descends 

 strongly and the plane of the aperture forms an angle of about 

 45° with the axis of the shell; base full and rounded, the umbili- 

 cus completely covered by a reflection of the pillar lip; aperture 

 rounded, the peristome narrow, whitish, slightly thickened and 

 reflected. Major diam. 15, minor diam. 12, alt. 11 mm.; other 

 specimens are slightly larger. 



Habitat: San Clemeute Island, Cal., U. S. Fish Com. 



The typical E. Kelletlil is that found in the vicinity of San 

 Diego. It has six whorls and they are well rounded. It differs 

 from the Cataliua Island form in its less flattened and more inflated 

 whorls, more dome-like spire, smaller size and browner aspect, the 

 contrast between the upper and lower sides of the last whorl being 

 much less marked. Specimens from the Coronado Islands are like 

 those from San Diego. The National Museum has this species 

 only from the above-mentioned three localities authentically. 

 " Santa Barbara," frequently mentioned as a locality, should read 

 " Santa Barbara Islands," as it is improbable that the shell occurs 

 at the town of Santa Barbara on the mainland. A lot in the 

 National Museum are labelled " Oregon City, Shumard, " which 

 is, of course, an error. E. clenieniina dirtei*s in size, in number of 

 whorls and in the more emphasised surface sculpture. It is more 

 like the San Diego shells than like those from Catalina. 



Epiphragmophora Orcutti n. sp. PI. VIII, fig. 19. 



Shell globose, moderately elevated, polished, with nearly six 

 moderately convex whorls forming a dome-like spire; color pur- 

 plish brown, lighter toward the umbilicus; a narrow pale baud on 

 the last whorl bordered behind by a darker brown, poorly defined, 

 similar baud, both being above the periphery and the suture in 

 the earlier whorls being laid on the anterior edge of the darker 

 Hne; nucleus finely flexuously radiately wrinkled, pale eolox-ed; 

 subsequent whorls with fine incremental wrinkles the ridges of 

 which are cut by revolving, partlv obsolete incised hues: as a rule 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 105 



these lines are not deep or continuous, cutting merely the tops of 

 the wrinkles and not the furrows between them; suture distinct, last 

 whorl rounded, plump, toward the aperture descending below the 

 pale band; base plumply rounded, the umbilicus covered by a 

 reflection of the pillar-lip with a minute chink behind it ; aperture 

 very oblique, thickened, whitish, reflected, especially near the 

 pillar; throat livid brownish with the bands well indicated. 

 Major diam. of large and small specimens, respectively, 24 and 

 22.5, minor diam. 20 and 18."), alt. 19 and 16 mm. 



Habitat: Rosario mesas, in northern Lower Cahfornia, in May, 

 188B, by C. R Orcutt. 



This form much resembles in shape the typical E. Kellettii, 

 from which it differs in the absence of the yellow flecking and the 

 different surface sculpture. E. KeUetiil is also a more globose 

 shell. The same stock, doubtless, was the origin of both species, 

 as well as several othei;s. 



Addendum — Note on the Anatomy of Giippya Hophbisi Dall. 



By Henry A. Pihhry. 



The sole is distinctly ti'ipartite; tail with a subtriangular mu- 

 cous pore surmounted by a blunt short fleshy process. The mantle 

 lining the lung cavity is pearl -gray with some opaque white spots 

 and irregular, broken, black, transverse lines. Genital system of 



the simple ' ' haplogon ' ' type, the 

 vas deferens and retractor termi- 

 nal on the penis. Kidney long- 

 triangular, nearly double the length 

 of the pericardium. Jaw arcuate 

 Avith a : light median projection 

 below, entirely smooth. Radula 

 with the centrals tricuspid, the ecto- 

 cones diverging ; laterals bicuspid ; 

 marginal teeth at firet with the 

 Jaw and teeth of G. hopkinsi. long cusp bifid (entocone + meso- 

 cone), then trifid (entocone + mesocone + ectocone), the outer- 

 most marginals shortened and simphfied as usual. The whole 

 anatomy agrees with Guppya, so far as that genus is known. 




106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE VIII. 



Fig. 1. BuUmulus hoodensis Dall; alt. 18 mm,, p. 91. 

 Fig. 2, Bulimulus Snodgrassi DaM; alt. 16.5 mm,, p. 90. 

 Fig, 3. Epiphragmophora crassiila DsiW; alt. 15 mm,, p. 100. 

 Fig. 4. Bulimulus appjroximatus Dall; alt. 17 mm., p. 90. 

 Fig. 5. Guppya Hopkinsi Dall ; viewed from above, major diam, 



6 mm., p. 97. 

 Fig. 6. The same, in profile. 



Fig. 7. Endodonta Helleri Dall; profile; diam. 3 mm., p. 93. 

 Fig. 8. The same, viewed from above. 

 Fig. 9. The same, basal view, the basal lamellee indicated by 



the lighter spots. 

 Fig. 10. Leptinaria Martensi Dall; alt, 10 mm., p. 97. 

 Fig. 11, Vitrea actinophora Dall; viewed from above, major diam. 



4 mm., p. 93. 

 Fig. 12. Succinea guadelapensis UaW; alt. 8.5 mm,, p. 102. 

 Fig. 13. Vertigo cocosemls Dall; alt. 2.2 mm., p. 98. 

 Fig. 14, Epiphragmojifiora guadelupiana Dall; major diam. 11 



mm., p. 101, 

 Fig. 15. The same, in profile. 



Fig. 16. Vitrea actinophora Dall; in profile, p. 93. 

 Fig. 17. The same, from below. 



Fig. 18. Epiphragmophora leucanthea DaU; alt. 20 mm., p. 99, 

 Fig. 19, Epiphragmophora Orcidti Dall; alt. 16 mm., p. 104. 

 Fig. 20, Epiphragmophora leucanthea Dall ; from below, major 



diam. 28 mm., p. 99, 




1900.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



107 



NOTE ON THE ANATOMY OF THE HELICOID GENUS ASHMUNELLA. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



This genus was established^ by Prof. Cockerell and myself for a 

 series of Polygyra-like Helices from New Mexico and Arizona, only 



one of which, A. miorhyssa, was 

 then known anatomically. That 

 we did not exceed the legitimate 

 bounds of inference from mere 

 shell characters, in grouping eight 

 anatomically unknown forms 

 around A. miorhyssa, I am now 

 in a position to show. 



Living specimens of the follow- 

 ing species of the genus have 

 been secured by Prof. Cockerell 

 and transmitted to me for study: 

 A. thomsoniana porterce, Beulah, 

 Upper Sapello Canon, New Mex- 

 ico ; A. thomsoniana (Anc. ), 

 one living specimen found by T. 



D. A. Cockerell and Wilmatte 

 Porter under a rock at Monu- 

 ment Rock, in Santa Fe Caiion, 

 8,000 feet elevation, in the region 

 of quaking aspens and scrub oaks, 

 December 30, 1899; A. rhyssa 

 hyporhyssa (Ckll.), Cloud croft, 

 Sacramento Mts., N. M., 8,750 

 feet elevation, collected by Prof. 



E. O. Wooton. 

 The examination of these 



forms fully confirms the anatom- 

 ical characters ascribed to the 

 genus in the above-mentioned paper. 



^ These Proceedings for 1899, p. 188. 




108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



A. thomsoniana (Anc). Fig. 2. 



This species diverges from the others in ha\'ing three aperture- 

 teeth as in Triodopsis. The single specimen secured extruded its 

 penis in drowning, and I found it impossible to retract it. It is 

 notable that only the lower and ^yider portion is everted, not the 

 tapering upper part, Avhich is probably epiphallic. 



The general proportions of the genitalia are as in var. poderce, 

 the spermatheca being long, decidedly over half the length of the 

 penis + epiphallus, in both forms. The lower insertion of the 

 penis retractor muscle in var. pjortene seems to be wanting in 

 thomsoniana. 



The jaw is strongly arcuate with seven moderately strong, separ- 

 ated, distinct ribs. 



liadula with 27. 1. 27 teeth, similar to those of A. hyporhyssa, the 

 tenth to the thirteenth transitional, outer 10 marginals with the 

 inner cusp.s bifid. 



A. thomsoniana porterae Pils. and Ckll. Fig. 3. 



Genital system similar to that of A. thom-ioniana, except that 

 it is larger, with a double insertion of the i>enis retractor muscle. 

 A. miorhyssa (DaU). 



These Proceedings, 1899, p. 189, figs. 1 (genitalia), 2 (jaw), 3 (teeth). 



The spermatheca is half the length of tne penis + epiphallus, being 

 shorter than in A. thomsoniana and jjo dene . The penis retractor 

 muscle has a double insertion, as in the preceding and following 

 forms. 

 A. rhyssa hyporhyssa (Ckll.). Fig. l. 



The epiphallus is very long, the penis -f epiphallus being 2i 

 times the length of the spermatheca. The lower insertion of the 

 penis retractor muscle is situated decidedly further down than 

 in A. miorhyssa, and the spermatheca is shorter. 



The jaw is horse-shoe shaped with eight or nine weak une»iual 

 ribs. 



Radula with '2X. 1. 28 teeth, the central and laterals with small 

 ectocones developed, 12 marginals with the inner cusp bifid, outer 

 cusp simple. The fourteenth to sixteenth teeth are tn\nsitional. 



It will be noticed that all the species have similar kinks in the 

 epiphallus, showing it to be doubled in the body-cavity in much 

 the same manner in all of them. The tridentate forms thom- 

 soniana and portenc differ from the others in the greater proper- 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 109 



tionate length of the spermatheca. The length of the flagelluui 

 varies somewhat between the species, but it is so small in all of 

 them that very exact measurements of its length are not readily 

 obtained. ^loreover, a vestigial organ so near its extinction as 

 this is not likely "to be constant in any species. I would not be 

 surprised to find that it had entirely disappeared in some cases. 

 Measurements of genitalia, in millimeters. 



Species. 



Porterse. 



Total length of penis, 

 eplphallus and flagel- 

 lum 



From atrium to upper 

 insertion of penis re- 

 tractor 



Length of fiagellum 



Length of spermathecal "(^ 

 duct J 



Museum No. of shell sup- "I -o --~ 

 plying preparation. . . J ' ' 



76,789 



The absolute measurements will, of course, vary with individual 

 variation in the size of the individual ; but the comparative lengths 

 of spermatheca and penis + epiphallus, and probably the details 

 of the penis retractor muscle, will evidently afford valuable specific 

 characters. 



The study of the anatomy of three more species and subspecies 

 shows Ashmnnella to be a remai'kably distinct genus anatomically. 

 There can be no question of its radical difference from Polygyra, 

 but light may be thrown on the nature of its relationship to 

 Epiphrarjmophora by the investigation of the species now referred to 

 that genus which iuhalnt the same region. Judging from a single 

 half-grown and sexually immature specimen of E. hachitana 

 which I was able through the courtesy of Prof. Cockerell to exam- 

 ine, a series strikingly divergent in genitalia from the Californian 

 forms may be found here. I shall be most grateful for living or 

 drowned alcoholic specimens of any Epiphragmophora from New 

 Mexico or Arizona. Also for E. gabbi, facta, roicelli, or ruficincta. 



' The length of the spermatheca was given as 27 mm. in our former paper, 

 p. 190. This was a typographical error for 21 mm. In the table here given 

 I have not given the length of the penis, as it is doubtful whether it should 

 be measured to the point marked x in fig. 1 or to that marked i/. I in- 

 cline now to the latter view, as the portion extruded in a specimen of A. 

 thomsoniana only extends to y. 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



MOLLUSCA OF THE GREAT SMOKY MOUNTAINS. 

 BY HEXRY A. PILSBRY. 



The material recorded aud described in tliis paper was gatliered 

 by a party of live naturalists, Messrs, J. H. Ferriss, Bryant 

 Walker, George H. Clapp, H. E. Sargent and myself, who visited 

 the mountains in July and August of 1899.^ Some account of the 

 wanderings and adventures of this band has been given else- 

 where,^ aud it will suffice here to give their itinerary as briefly as 

 may be. 



From Knoxville, Tenn, the rendezvous, travel was by wagon 

 through Chilhowee Gap to Cade's Cove,' in Blount county, Tenn., 

 a valley adjacent to the main range of the Great Smokies. 

 Thence with guides, pack mules and camping outfit we ascended 

 Thuudcrhead, camping at " Spencer's Cabin," and collecting 

 both near the summit and at various lower levels. Ferriss made 

 a day's journey to Block House Mountain, a peak ruuuing up to 

 some 5,500 feet, nameless on the Geological Survey topographic 



' All of those mentioned have contributed valuable notes and specimens 

 toward this paper, so that it really represents our joint and several observa- 

 tions, which I have correllated and systematized. To this end, most of the 

 smaller or more critical specimens have been generously entrusted to me for 

 examination, to the number of some six or eight thousand shells including 

 tho-e collected by myself. 



It should Ije mentioned that Mr. Ferriss had previously made several 

 vacation journeys to the Great .Smokies, and Mr. Clapp was there in 189S. 

 The richne.«s of the region in moUuscan life was tirst made kuown by Mrs. 

 George Andrews, of Knoxville, although Kugel, many years ago. evidently 

 ventured within the mountain fastnesses, and Miss Law visited the outlying 

 ridges. 



•^ Nautilus, 1900. 



^ A mountain valley becomes a " cove " on the tongue of the mountaineer. 

 Some of the " coves " are of considerable extent and nearly level ; the soil 

 is fertile and the farms productive and- beautiful. Cade's Cove is also the 

 name of a post-olhce in the valley. Tlie localities "Sugar Cove." "Rose 

 Cove," Brannon's, Rowan's. "Laurel Creek" are all in Cade's Cove or 

 subsidiary vallevs thereto. During our stay in Cade's Cove we were in- 

 debted to Mr. Blair for numerous courtesies, which are here gratefully ac- 

 knowledged. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



map, but shown ou the Kuoxville sheet, due south of Thuuderhead, 

 with which the 4, 700 foot contour connects it. From Thunder- 

 head the trail follows the ridge along the Tennessee-North Caro- 

 lina boundary, over Briar Knob (an outrageous climb) and 

 Proctor's Knob to the south end of Miry Ridge. Thence 

 over Siler's Bald to Clingman Dome (6,600 feet altitude), still 

 upon the interstate boundary. The main collecting ground on 

 Clingman was a few hundred feet below the summit along the 

 north side. This was the last camp of Messrs. Clapp, Walker 

 and myself; but Mr. Ferriss and Mr. Sargent explored beyond, 

 first visiting Andrews Bald, an outlier of the Clingman mass, and 

 then returning to Siler's Bald they followed the crest of the great 

 ridge ramifying southwest, to Welch Bald, which reaches 5,000 

 feet elevation. From this peak they descended the Welch Bald 

 Branch to Chamber's creek, and down to the Little Tennessee 

 river. Crossing the river into Graham county, N. C. , they 

 ascended Tuskeegee creek, collecting en route and on " Tuskeegee 

 Mountain " (not named on the Nantahala topographic sheet), a 

 spur of the Cheoah Mountains which projects northward between 

 the headwaters of Tuskeegee creek and Yellow creek. Most of 

 the shells here came from a valley called " Ramp Cove," on the 

 Yellow creek side. Along Yellow creek they followed the road 

 to the Cheoah river. From here they entered the Unaka Moun- 

 tains,* ascending the twin peaks Hangover and Mt. Hayo (5,200 

 feet) and Sti*atton Bald, (5,400 feet) — this peak named for Robert 

 Stratton, being locally known as " Bob's Bald." Some collecting 

 Avas then done in " Glen Cove," nameless on the Geological Sur- 

 vey map, but readily located as one of the heads of Slick Rock 

 creek, in Tennessee. They then turned northward in Monroe 

 county, Tenn,, stopping at Tallassee ford of the Little Tennessee 

 river, at Caringer, Tenn., where they collected on the south side of 

 the river, finally returning across country to Cade's Cove.* Mr. 

 Sargent made a journey by rail to Hayesville, Clay county, N. C, 



* This Unaka range mast not be confused with another so-called on some 

 maps, lying to the west of Koan Mountain. 



* No ordinary atlas gives an adequate idea of the extent or complexity 

 of this mountain region. Recourse must be had to ihe excellent topographic 

 maps published by the U. S. Geological Survey. The localities mentioned 

 ou the route described above will be found on the Kiioxville, Mt. Guyot, 

 Nantahala, Murphy and Loudon sheets. 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



the malacological results of which have been incorporated in this 

 list.« 



In the region where collecting was done the country rock is 

 mainly sandstone and a coarse gray conglomerate. The coves are 

 said to have a floor of limestone, but it is evidently buried deeply, 

 as I noticed no exposures. There is a good exposure of the 

 "Hazel Slate" on the dizzy, knifelike ridge connecting Siler's 

 Bald and Clingman Dome. The strata along the boundary ridge 

 dip deeply to the south and southeast, and the debris of the broken 

 edges falling down the northern and northwestern decliNnties makes 

 more abundant shelter for rock-loving snails on this than on any 

 other slope. Springs can be found almost anywhere, up nearly to 

 the mountain tops, and frequent I'ains or cloud-mist hanging about 

 the summits keep the ground moist, and the deep moss holds 

 water like a sponge. 



Kelationships of the Great Smoky Mouxtaix Fauna. 



The Appalachian mountain system is div:ided in the south by the 

 broad valley of eastern Tennessee into two divisions unlike in 

 their physical features and geological structure. The level strata 

 of the Western Division, or Cumberland Plateau, though more 

 or less dissected by stream -erosion, never become so rugged as the 

 steeply tilted strata forming the noble mountains of the Eastern 

 Division. 



Faunally the two divisions have hitherto been considered to con- 

 stitute a zoogeographic unit, under the title of the " Cumberland 

 Subregion.'" The inclusion of both the Eastern and Western 

 Divisions under one zoogeographic term would lead one to suppose 

 a numerically important part of the characteristic species com- 

 posing the fauna to be common to the whole tract ; but the collec- 

 tor on the ground finds this to be far from the truth. A certain 

 number of land snails extend over the whole mountain region and 

 far east and west of it; but of those restricted to the Appalachian 

 system we find that the Cumberland Plateau has its own set of 

 species, and the eastern mountains another. The characteristic 



" It may be meotioned here that the shells Ferriss collected in 1898 and 

 labeled "Unaka Mts. " -were taken on Citico Creek, in Monroe county, 

 Tenn. 



' See W. G. Binney, Manual American Land Shells, p. 33. 




1 900. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 118 



species, those which give the mouutain regions individuality as 

 contrasted with the lowlands, are very largely different on the two 

 sides of the great valley. 



I would submit, then, that the "Cumberland Subregion " as 

 understood hitherto is not a faunal unit, but contains two faunulge 

 as diverse from one another as either is from the lowland fauna 

 to the west or the east of the mountains. 



Characteristic forms illustrating this diversity are as follows: 



Eastern Division. Western Division. 



(Roan Mt. to the Great Smokies. ) (Cumberland Plateau. ) 



Polygyra chilhoiveensis, Polygyra plicata, 



" siibpalliatu, 



' ' ferrissii, 



' ' clarlcii, 



' ' andreivsce, 



' ' tvheatleyi, 



' ' christyl, 



' ' lawoe, 



" depilata, 



' ' barbigera, 



" hirsuta altispira, 



" " pilula, 



' ' maxillata. 



Omphalina rugeli, 



" subplana, 



' ' andrewsce. 



Vitrinizonites. 

 Zonitoides jmtuloides. 

 Gastrodonta lasmodon, 



" ccelaxis, 



' ' andrewsce, 



" clappi, 



' ' walkeri. 



Pyramidula alternata costata, 



' * bryanti. 



The list could be increased, but these main genera sufficiently 

 illustrate the distinctness of the faunas. It seems that the depres- 

 8 



" dorfeuilliana, 



' ' fatigiata, 



' ' troostiana, 



' ' tridentata complanata, 



' ' wetherbyi, 



" obstrida, 



" sargentiana, 



' ' doivniecma, 



" spinosa, 



' ' labrosa, 



' ' edgariana, 



' ' edvardsi, 



" stenotrema exodon. 

 Omphalina inornata. 



Zonitoides latewnbilicatus. 

 Gastrodonta collisella. 



Pyramidula alternata earinata, 

 " cumber landiana. 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



sion of the East Tennessee valley practically prevents iDtermingling 

 of the mountain species, and has doubtless been a barrier far back 

 into Tertiary time. Further north, in the Virginias and Pennsyl- 

 vania, the distinction is almost obliterated ; partly owing to the 

 absence of an intervening tract so markedly differentiated physi- 

 cally, and partly because, if the northward extensions of the 

 eastern and western divisions of the mountain system ever had 

 special faunas, they were obliterated by the severe conditions of the 

 Ice Age far beyond the southern border of the actual ice sheet, and 

 there has not been time for the differentiation of new faunas in 

 the North. 



The Eastern Division, with which we have particularly to do, 

 extending in a great ridge from northeast to southwest, between 

 Tennessee and North Carolina, is cut transversely into several 

 sections by rivers breaking through the highest ranges — the upper 

 Nolichucky, the French Broad and Little Pigeon, and the Little 

 Tennessee. The mollusk fauna of the section above the Noli- 

 chucky is fairly well known by the researches of many naturalists 

 on Roan Mountain and in its vicinity, ^Mrs. George Andrews and 

 Mr. A. G. Wetherby having contributed most largely to our 

 knowledge. 



The Great Smokies proper, as far east as Clingman, and the 

 mountains along the southern side of the Little Tennessee, are now 

 fairly known by the work of Mrs. Andrews and our party of five, 

 and especially by Ferriss' explorations, though no doubt the lists 

 of species will be largely augmented in future. 



The mountain region between the Nolichucky and Clingman s 

 Dome, a distance of about seventy- five miles as the crow flies, w 

 wholly unknown malacologically, so far as I know. "We may rea- 

 sonably expect the forms common to Roan and the Great Smokies 

 to occur in this intermediate tract; but in %'iew of the extreme 

 local differentiation, specific and varietal, in the known areas, how 

 many splendid snails, never yet seen by man, still lurk in their 

 rocky shelters along these mountain tops ! 



Comparing the fauna of Roan Mt." and its environs with that of 



8 For the fauna of Roan I take Wetherby's papers: "Some Notes on 

 American Land Shells," Jouru. Cincinnati Soc. X. H., IV. 1881: and 

 "Natural History Notes from North Carolina." in the same Journal, XVI. 

 18'J3. p. 87, and XVII, 1894, pp. 69 and '209. These articles, containing the 

 observations of an experienced naturalist, give as good an idea of the fauna 

 as could be obtained without actually working over the giound. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



the Gi'eat Smokies below Clingman shows the following forms 



common to the two tracts, exclusive of those occurring also in 



the Cumberland Mts. or elsewhere : 



Polygyra andreivsm, Vitrea sculptilis, 



' ' wheatleyi, Zonitoides elliotti. 



Vitrinizo7iites latissimus, Philoimjcus wether hyl. 



Omphalina subplana, 

 Special to the Roan Mountain neighborhood are: 



Polygyra suhpalliata, Gastrodonta andrewsoe, 



" hirsuta altispira, " ccelaxis, 



Omphalina rugeli, Pyramidula bryanti. 



And the following forms have hitherto been found only in the 



■Great Smokies and adjacent ranges along the Little Tennessee 



river : 



Polygyra chilhoweensis, Zonitoides paiuloides, 



" ferrissii, Pyramidula alternata costata, 



" depilata, Punctum blandiaman, 



" edwardsi magnifumosa, Gastrodonta lamellidens, 

 " hirsuta piliua, " tvalkeri, 



Omphalina andrewsoe, " clappi. 



And also some varietal forms of various other species. 



Vertical Distribution of Species. 



Our data on Polygyra andrewsce show that mere altitude has 

 little, if any, influence within the limits afforded by the region 

 investigated. Thus, on the flanks of Thunderhead Mt., the shells 

 up to fully 4,000 feet do not differ in size or other characters from 

 those of Cade's Cove, at half that elevation. At Proctor's Knob 

 (5,000 feet) and Miry Ridge (4,500-5,000 feet) the average size 

 and solidity of the shells is undoubtedly somewhat greater than at 

 the lower stations, though the conditions do not diflfer much, and 

 the country rock is not greatly different. What favorable local 

 cause works this change is not clear. It is only near and at the 

 exposed mountain tops themselves that the shells suddenly diminish 

 in size and solidity, as among the scrubby beeches at the storm- 

 swept summit of Thunderhead, or along the lofty ridge of Cling- 

 man, from 5,500 to 6,500 feet elevation. 



Polygyra wheatleyi, also a species of wide distribution, is similar 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



to P. andrewsce in its variations. The toothed form with wide lip 

 occurs throughout the region, except along the ridge of Clingmau, 

 where a more dehcate and toothless form replaces the ordinary one. 

 For the rest it varies greatly in size, and without reference, so far 

 as I can see, to altitude or exposure, the other factors of soil and 

 vegetation being probably more potent. Extremely small speci- 

 mens occurred in the Tuskeegee Mountains (between Yellow creek 

 and Tuskeegee creek), at a small elevation, and very large ones 

 on Stratton Bald, over 5, 000 feet above the sea. The only locality 

 in which anything like racial characters are appearing, however, 

 is on Clingman, as mentioned above, the only locality, so far as I 

 know, where the forest is coniferous. 



Polygyra ferrissii has been found so far only at elevations above 

 4,000 feet, on the Clingman conglomerate which crowns Miry 

 Ridge and Clingman' s Dome, though probably some of the lower 

 stations are on the Thunderhead conglomerate, lithologically the 

 same. An equilateral triangle with sides about seven miles long, 

 the angles at Miry Ridge, Andrews Bald and Welch Bald, in- 

 cludes all known localities, though it certainly does not occur over 

 much of the small area thus enclosed. The researches of our 

 party along the high ridge west from Miry Ridge, and Ferriss' 

 and Sargent's search to the south, make it probable that the 

 species has no great extension in these directions. It remains to 

 be seen whether it extends along the interstate boundary ridge 

 toward Mt. Guyot and the Big Pigeon river gap, but such exten- 

 sion is likely. 



Polygyra depilata has occurred so far only along the interstate 

 boundary ridge from Thunderhead to Clingman's Dome, reappear- 

 ing south of the Little Tennessee river on Stratton Bald. 



Pyramidula alternata costata has been found only along the south 

 side of Cade's Cove. The small Gastrodouts are probably more 

 widely distributed than existing data indicate. 



List of Species. 



HELIOINID^. 

 Helioina occulta (Say). 



Rowan creek, Cade's Cove. A single, rather thick-lipped small 



specimen, diam. 5^ mm., was taken by Ferriss, and two more by 



Sargent. This is further south than any previous record. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117 



HELIOIDu^. 

 Polygyra tridentata (Say). 



Practically typical specimens of this species occur in the upper 

 Tennessee Valley in eastern Tennessee. In the Great Smokies, 

 however, a divergence occurs which I have not seen from any 

 other locality. The basal tooth is split into two denticles ; either 

 distinctly or obsoletely; or without being bifid, the tooth has a 

 callous slope or buttress against its outer side. This tendency to 

 double the basal tooth evidently characterizes a mountain race, 

 but I doubt whether the race be yet firmly enough established to 

 require recognition in nomenclature. The localities are: " Roe's 

 Flat," in Cade's Cove (Ferriss and Clapp, 1898), diam. 16 to 18 

 mm. Brannon's, Sugar Cove, off" Cade's Cove, one specimen; 

 basal tooth very heavy. Hannah Mt. (Ferriss, 1898). Welch 

 Bald, on the Forney Ridge, diam. ranging from slightly over 

 13 to nearly 18 mm. ; basal tooth nearly as simple in a few speci- 

 mens as in tridentata, distinctly double or buttx-essed in others. 

 Ten specimens collected by Ferriss. A single P. fraudulenta with 

 typical aperture was taken with them. P. tridentata also was taken 

 on Welch Bald branch of Chamber's creek, and on Chamber's 

 creek down to the Little Tennessee. 



South of the Little Tennessee, in Graham county, Ferriss took 

 specimens on Yellow creek and Bob's Bald; in both localities the 

 basal tooth was double or calloused. 



" Other characters of the mountain form of P. tridentata are the 

 tubercular upper tooth and the flattening of the basal lip. An- 

 other variety of tridentata from Oakdale, Morgan county (Clapp, 

 1899), and Concord, Knox county (in the James H. Lewis collec- 

 tion), has the apertxire of var. complanata, with very small and 

 widely spaced teeth, but is striated like typical tridentata. Largest 

 from Concord, diam. 23 mm., alt. 10^ mm; smallest, diam. 19^, 

 alt. 9 mm. Largest from Oakdale, diam. 20|^, alt. 9^ mm. ; 

 smallest, diam. 19, alt. 10 mm."— (?. H. C. 

 Polygyra fraudulenta Pilsbry. 



Welch Bald, Swain county, N.C. One specimen, diam. 13 mm. 



Polygyra rugeli (Shuttl.)- 



An abundant species. Tuckaleechee Cove, at about 1,200 feet 

 elevation, two rather small shells, 11 mm. diam. Cade's Cove, 

 very abundant, usually about 14 mm. diam., the ordinary varia- 

 tion 12 to 15. One umbilicated specimen taken, and one slightly 




118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [190Q 



less than 9 mm. diam., the smallest rugeli on record. Ferriss 

 took a specimen in 1898 which is distinctly carinated at the per- 

 iphery, this being from " Roe's Cove." 



Of ten specimens collected at Brannon's, Sugar Cove, off 

 Cade's Cove, by Ferriss, five measure 9 to 10 mm., one 10^, and 

 four 13^ to 14 mm. Some of these are among the smallest speci- 

 mens of the species seen. 



On Thuuderhead, in the Eagle creek region, N. C, probably 

 between 3,500 and 4,500 feet, the extremes in a series collected are 

 11 and 15 mm. diam. 



" Quite common on Miry Ridge in 1898, probably about 4,000 

 feet, about same size as Cade's Cove specimens, average. The 

 smallest shell of this species which I have seen is from Russellville, 

 Ala. (Lewis collection), 8^ mm. diam. From Scott county, Va., I 

 have two specimens of 9 and 9^ mm. diam. respectively." — G.H. C. 

 It occurred also on Andrews Bald, Welch Bald and Chamber's 

 creek. 



On the Little Tennessee river, at mouth of Chamber's creek, 

 Mr. Ferriss collected small specimens, 11 to 12 mm. South of 

 the Little Tennessee river specimens were taken on Cheoah creek, 

 and in Glen Cove, in the Unakas, twenty -one specimens, varying 

 gradually from 10^ to 14^ mm. diam. 



At Tallassee ford. Little Tennessee river, in Monroe county, 

 Tenn., a dozen specimens taken by Ferriss vary from 12 to 

 nearly 13 mm., being thus vexy uniform in size. 

 Polygyra cMlhoweensis (Lewie). 



This magnificent species is characteristic of the Gi*eat Smoky 

 Mountains, having been described from an outlying ridge, the 

 Chilhowee Mountain, which rises some 2,000 to 2,500 feet — about 

 the elevation of the slopes of Cade's Cove. In large series col- 

 lected by the party of 1899, and in those taken by Ferriss and 

 Clapp in 1898, no intergradation with P. sayii Binn. was ob- 

 served. P. chilhoiceensis is always larger, with broader lip and 

 more obsolete teeth or none. P. sayil is not known to occur in 

 the region, though Wetherby has taken it at Roan Mountain. 



Of many specimens taken by our party, 1899, in " Sugar 

 Cove," off Cade's, the largest I have seen measures 39 mm. 

 diam., the smallest 31 mm. Mr. Ferriss gives 40 and 27^ mm. 

 as the diameters of his largest and smallest specimens. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 119 



At Eagle creek, N. C, on Thunderhead, 35 mm. diam. 



Proctor's Knob (on the Tennessee -North Carolina boundary, 

 between the south end of Miry Ridge and Briar Knob), 33 mm. 

 diam. 



South end of Miry Ridge, 81-34 mm. Ferriss' 27^ mm. shell 

 was from ]\Iiry Ridge. 



On Clingman's Dome it is rare, occurring on the western end, 

 probably at about 4,800 feet. We did not find it near the summit. 



South of the Little Tennessee Ferriss found it on Yellow creek, 

 Graham county, N. C, and in Glen Cove, one of the heads of 

 Slick Rock creek, in the Unaka Mountains.' 



This last giant is in the Lewis collection, and Dr. Lewis says: " Cubic di- 

 mensions 9.65 of H. diodonta of the size of Say's type." I think the alti- 

 tude given for Bald Mountain, 6,000 feet, is a mistake. — G. H. O. 




120 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Polygyra albolabris (Say). 



Cade's Cove, at " Roe's Flat " and " Laurel Creek " (Ferriss 

 and Clapp), Blount county, Tenn. South of the Little Tennessee, 

 in Graham county, N. C, Ferriss reports the species from Tuskee- 

 gee'Mountain (at the head of Yellow creek), Yellow creek, and 

 the Cheoali river. 



We did not find alholabris on the mountains and it probably 

 does not ascend over 2,500 feet, if so high as that, in this region, 

 being confined to the coves. 



The specimens from Cade's Cove are heavy, solid shells, 32 to 

 35 mm. diam., of beautiful texture, the microscopic sculpture 

 being sharply developed. jNIauy of them blush with a distinct 

 rose tint above, the base pale yellow. The white peristome is 

 strongly developed. 



I have been disposed to refer these shells to the variety major, 

 the typical form of which occurs in Georgia and western extra- 

 peninsular Florida; but the dividing line between alholabris and 

 major is at best an exceedingly indistinct one, and we may perhaps 

 be nearer the truth if we consider the shells of this region as a 

 transition between alholabris and major. A specimen from John- 

 son City, in the valley of East Tennessee, measures 38 mm. diam. 

 Polygyra exoleta (Blnn.). 



Cade's Cove, abundant; Glen Cove, Unaka Mountains, X. C. ; 

 Tallassee ford, Caringer, Tenn. ; well-developed shells of the nor- 

 mal form. It was not found by us on the mountains, but in the 

 coves, and apparently does not ascend much above 2,000 feet. 

 " The Cade's Cove shells vary in color, some having a very dark 

 spire shading to nearly white on the base, while others are either 

 uniform dark or light. " — G. H. C. 

 Polygyra ferrissii Pils. 



This beautiful species can never become common, so rugged 

 and remote are its mountain haunts. To the north and northwest 

 of the summit of Clingman's Dome the slope is steep, frequently 

 precipitous, and covered with a talus of great blocks of rock, deeply 

 carpeted with sphagnum and shaded by great balsam firs.'" Like 

 the other mountains of this ridge, Clingman seems to be a mouo- 



^^ Besides the balsam fir or "she balsam," Abies fraseri, the Picea rubens 

 Sargent is mingled with it in the Clingman forest. I am indebted to Mr. 

 Thomas Meehau for the id> ntifications, based on cones and foliage. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



cliue, the massive conglomerate beds dipping steeply to the south 

 or southeast. This results in a rocky talus on the north or north- 

 west slopes, from disintegration of the faulted or eroded edges of 

 the strata, while the other slope is less rugged. Mossy trunks lie 

 in every direction, making progress slow and difficult. 



It is on the wet and bare under surfaces of blocks resting 

 free from the ground that Ferriss' Mesodon hves. Kneeling or 

 lying at length on the wet nioss, and peering or crawling into these 

 black crevices, we found the snails on the rock roofs of the cavities, 

 but only in small numbers. Candles were occasionally of use. 



A few specimens were taken among the rank herbage covering 

 the ground near the summit of the ridge, where they live with 

 Clapp's variety of Poli/gyra andreivs(e. 



Besides this locality near the summit of Chngman, a few speci- 

 mens were taken from a similar station about one and a half miles 

 down the west end of the mountain on the Tennessee side, prob- 

 ably near the 4,000 foot contoui-. This spot was reached by a 

 desperate climb in the bed of a leaping brook, through a dense 

 laurel thicket, the way led by the indomitable Ferriss. This 

 locality is a jolly good place for hard work, but a poor one for 

 snails. 



Ferriss and Sargent found P. ferrissli on Andrews Bald, which 

 is really but a spur of the Clingman mass. 



Another spot at which P. ferrissii has been taken is on " Miry 

 Ridge on the western slope, from a quarter to a half mile below 

 the point where the ridge leaves the boundary range. The situa- 

 tion is very similar to that described above for Clingman, except 

 that many of the fallen stones are smaller and the bulk of the 

 collecting was done by ' quarrying.' On the southern side of 

 the main range Ferriss found a few specimens in 1898. These 

 two localities are so close together that they may be considered as 

 practically the same." — G. JET. C 



Along the great ridge ramifying southward from Siler's Bald, 

 Ferriss and Sargent found P. ferrissii at Welch Bald. This peak 

 rises to 5,000 feet, and is connected with Miry Ridge and Clingman 

 by the 4,000 foot contour. 



P. ferrissii does not show much variation so far as known. Fer- 

 riss found a single albino, a lovely light-green shell, wliich he gave 

 to the Academy, and Sargent found two light-colored shells, one 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



of which was albino, in 1899. Of the specimens taken on Cling- 

 man, the largest measrures 2Sh, the smallest 19 mm. diam. 

 Polygyra palliata Say. 



Taken by Ferriss at Laurel creek, Cade's Cove. It is appar- 

 ently wanting in the mountains along the interstate boundary, but 

 reappeared in the Little Tennessee region on Chamber's creek, and 

 at its mouth, on Bob's Bald (Stratton Bald), at Glen Cove, 

 Unakas, and Tallassee ford, Monroe county, Tenn. Mr. Clapp ob- 

 serves that the southern specimens are less hairy than the northern. 

 Polygyra appressa perigrapta Pi's. 



Tuckaleechee Cove; Cade's Cove; Eagle Creek, Thunderhead, 

 about 4,000 feet; Block House, "The Balsams," west end of 

 Chngman, about 6,000 feet; Welch Bald creek and Chamber's 

 creek, to the Little Tennessee. Everywhere well -developed, 

 typical specimens. South of the Little Tennessee, FerrLss took 

 specimens on Tuskeegee creek, Cheoah creek, Bob's Bald and in 

 Glen Cove. We found P. appressa sculptior Chadw. on the bluffs 

 of the Tennessee, opposite Knoxville. 

 Polygyra clarkii (Lea). 



Cade's Cove. Fine specimens were taken about 1,000 feet below 

 the summit of Thunderhead, on the North Carolina side, though 

 it is far from common. The largest and smallest shells measure: 

 Alt. 10^, diam. 14 mm. ; alt. .10, diam. 13^ mm. Clingman's 

 Dome and Andrews Bald ; Welch Bald branch of Chamber's 

 creek; and south of the Little Tennessee on Tuskeegee and 

 Cfieoah creeks, in Glen Cove, and at Tallassee ford of the Little 

 Tennessee. 



" Ferriss and I found this species on ^liry Ridge in 1898, at 

 about 4,000 to 4,500 feet. Decidedly scarce. Largest alt. 12, 

 diam. 15f mm. Largest from Thunderhead. just below Spencer's 

 Cabin, alt. 10^, diam. 15i^ mm. Largest from Cade's Cove, alt. 

 11, diam. 15 mm." — (?. H. C. 

 Polygyra thyroides (Say). 



We did not find this species along the Tennessee-North Caro- 

 lina boundary, but Ferriss found it in North Carohna, at Welch 

 Bald, and ou the Little Tennessee at mouth of Chamber's creek, 

 and at Tallassee Ford, I picked up a specimen at Porter's 

 Academy, Blount county, Tennessee. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 12.> 



Polygyra andrewsae (W. G. Biuney). 



This species was originally described from the thin, small, green- 

 ish horn-colored form occurring on the upper 2,000 feet of Roan 

 Mounlain. This form is in reality a local race of a species widely 

 spread along the mountain ridge between Tennessee and North 

 Carolina, and eastward, probably throughout the mountains, ex- 

 tending into Georgia. Just what its westward limit may be is 

 uncertain; biit apparently it does not invade the valley of eastern 

 Tennessee watered by the Holston, Nolichucky and Tennessee 

 rivers. In Blount county, Tenn. , we did not find it below about 

 2,000 feet, first encountering the species on the slopes of (/ade's 

 Cove. Whether it occurs at lower levels, or in the isolated Chil- 

 howee ridge, remains to be seen, as no exploration has been made. 

 It is obviously not a species of the Cumberland elevation, in the 

 proper restriction of that term. 



Typical P. andreiosce will, of course, be restricted to the small 

 Roan Mountain race, first described and well represented by Mr. 

 Binney's figures {Man. Amer. Land Shells, fig. 321). For the 

 larger, more solid, yellowish-brown or slightly greenish form, with 

 wider lip and a more or less distinct prominence (hardly a tooth) 

 on the columella, the varietal name normalis may be used, the 

 types being from Cade's Cove, Blount county, Tenn. 



The typical P. andrewsce is not known to occur in the Great 

 Smoky Mountains. 



P. andrewsae normalis n. var. 



This is the form occurring throughout the Great Smokies, in the 

 coves and on the mountain sides, up in some places to 4,500 feet, 

 as at the southern end of Miry Ridge, or even higher, at the west- 

 ern end of Clingman's Dome. Specimens with a parietal tooth are 

 very rare, and have only a small or indistinct tooth. No example 

 of var. normalis with a band is known. Our collecting gave the 

 following data: 



Cade's Cove. The snails five on densely wooded mountain sides 

 in the subordinate coves on the Thunderhead side at an elevation 

 of about 2,000-2,500 feet. We found them crawling on the 

 ground, and especially on logs or sticks. The lip is broad ; none 

 show a parietal tooth, and none are banded or dark colored. 

 Largest of a series of seventy-five, 34J mm. diam. ; smallest, 29 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



mm, ; average of the entire lot 31^ mm. Seveuty-five per cent, 

 of the shells measure 31-33 mm. diam. 



Eagle creek, on the South Carolina side of Thunderhead, from 

 about 3,500 to 4,000 feet. Station similar to Cade's Cove, but 

 sometimes crawling up trees four to six feet. The shells are simi- 

 lar to the preceding lot, but there are apparently more very pale 

 or albino specimens among them. Largest of a series of nineteen, 

 33^ mm. diam. ; smallest, 29 mm, ; average of the lot,' 31 mm. 

 diam. Two-thirds of the shells are 31-32 mm, diam. 



Proctor's Knob, on the Tennessee-North Carolina boundary, west 

 of Miry Ridge; ^It. about 5,000 feet. The shells taken are solid 

 and large, measuring 32, 33, 33, 34, 35 mm. , diam. ; average 

 33J mm. 



South end of Miry Ridge, 4,500-5,000 feet altitude, on the 

 boundary trail. Sixteen specimens, two with a very slight trace 

 of a parietal tooth, A few show a slight channel at the upper ter- 

 mination of the outer lip. They occurred on logs of a former 

 camp. Largest specimens, 33 mm, diam. ; smallest, 30 mm. ; 

 average of the lot, 32 mm. diam. The shells are more solid 

 than at Eagle creek or Cade's Cove. 



" Miry Ridge, in Tennessee. In 1898 Ferriss and I followed 

 out the ridge a few hundred yards and then down the western 

 angle probably 2,000 feet. (According to the ' Knoxville 

 sheet' Miry is 5,000 feet high Avhere it leaves the boundary.) 

 We collected normalis all the way down, but found it most plenti- 

 ful on top. It was a very wet season and the snails were all over 

 the ground and weeds and even on the trees several feet above 

 the ground. My largest from Miry is 36^ mm. diam. ; smallest, 

 31^ mm. diam. INIany of the shells were very globose, two meas- 

 uring, alt. 27^, diam. 32 mm., and alt. 28, diam. 34^ mm,, 

 respectively. One shell, 33 mm. diam., has a strong parietal 

 tooth, and two others have faint teeth," — G. H. C. 



Western end of Cliugiuau's Dome, at about 5,600-5,800 feet. 

 Specimens of the large variety {normalis') are rare here, only 

 two being found by me, to nineteen of the small variety '^see 

 below), during a long search. These measure 32 and 33 mm,, 

 ai'e rather solid, toothless, without a groove at the upper insertion 

 of the lip, and quite similar to specimens from ^liry Ridge, 

 Clapp writes of the specimens from this locality: " Shells from 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



'The Balsams' are large and very heavy, largest 35i mm., 

 smallest 30 mm. diam." As at the second Miry Ridge locality, it 

 occurs here with the var. altivaga, but only sparingly. 



It was taken also at Andrews Bald and on Chamber's creek 

 by Ferriss. South of the Little Tennessee, Fen-iss took specimens 

 on Tuskeegee creek and Yellow creek, Cheoah river and in Glen 

 Cove, one of the heads of Slick Rock creek. In the Unaka 

 Mountains, not far froin Citico creek, the shells are large and 

 solid, toothless or with the slight trace of a parietal tooth, lip not 

 grooved at its junction above. Diam. 33-36|- mm. A series 

 would probably show them to be perceptibly larger as well as more 

 solid than the Miry Ridge shells, which excel those of other locali- 

 ties mentioned above. 

 P. andrewsae altivaga n. var. 



This is the form of the higher muuntain tops. It is character- 

 ized by the small size, globose contour, compact coiling of the 

 whorls which scarcely exceed five in number; the striation being 

 very fine and delicate; parietal wall unarmed or with a small 

 acute tooth; lip flat and rather wide, the internal rib interrupted 

 near the upper termination, leaving a slight channel at the angle 

 of junction, more or less obvious in different specimens. Shell 

 thinner in adults than in adults of var. normalis ; colors typically 

 darker and richer, but varying to pale with a dark band above 

 the periphery. Types from near the summit of Clingman'a 

 Dome, with'P. ferrissii. 



Mr. Clapp first directed attention to this form, which he and Mr. 

 Ferriss took at the summit of Thunderhead and at Miry Ridge in 

 1898, While there is no sharply defined single character sepa- 

 rating it from the ordinary form of F. andrewsoe, normalis, yet 

 among some hundreds of specimens of F. andrewsce I have exam- 

 ined I find it easy to distinguish this form, which is by all odds 

 the handsomest of the varieties of P. andrewsce. The following 

 details relate to special localities : 



Clingman Dome, near the summit, 6,500 feet elevation. On 

 herbage and moss on the ground, shaded by balsams. The shells 

 are often dented while alive, and mostly appear to complete their 

 growth in two seasons, the second period of growth beginning of 

 a lighter color and slightly coarser texture than the preceding 

 growth. Of thirty-two specimens the largest has a diameter of 




12G PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



28, the smallest 24 mm., eighty per cent, being from 25 to 27 

 mm. , the average of the lot is 26 mm. Thirty per cent, are more 

 or less distinctly banded. Mr. Clapp writes of the specimens 

 taken by him that " out of thirty-six shells, nineteen are dark 

 and seventeen banded, some of the latter with only the peripheral 

 band, others with an additional subsutural band. Largest 29 

 mm. , smallest 24|^ mm, diam. West of ' Double Springs ' I got 

 one specimen 31 J mm, diam,, alt. 24 mm " 



Andrews Bald, south of Cliugman Dome, and connected with 

 it by a high ridge, alt. about 5, 800 feet. Forms entirely like that 

 on Clingman were found here by Ferriss. 



West end of Clingman, between 5,500 and 6,000 feet^ Shells 

 similar to those from top of Clingman, but usually paler colored. 

 Fewer specimens are banded, one with two distinct bands; and a 

 few specimens show a minute but sharply defined parietal tooth, 

 quite near the upper end of the lip. The largest of nineteen 

 examples is 28 mm., the smallest 24^ mm. diam.; average of the 

 lot 26 mm. 



Miry Ridge, * ' In the same locality as ferrissii, and either under 

 the rocks or in the moss overhanging the edges of the rocks, on 

 the western angle of the ridge, I think the Miry Ridge shells 

 collected last year are more typical than those from Clingman as 

 they are more mature and heavier. Out of fifteen Miry Ridge 

 specimens in my collection, six have the parietal tooth strong, three 

 have it faint and six are toothless. These shells also show the 

 channel much better than those from Clingman on account of the 

 lip being fully formed. Of the fifteen shells, three are dark, six 

 are light (we did not get tliis color variety on Clingman), two 

 have a peripheral band, one has a faint line between the band and 

 the suture, and three are what Ferriss calls * half and half — that 

 is, the band extends from the periphery to the suture. Largest 

 Miry shell diam. 30, alt, 2U mtn. ; smallest, diam, 26, alt. 1S\ 

 mm,"— (?, H. a 



The specimens vary from the pale greenish-yellow tint, occasion- 

 ally with a band above, to a dark reddish-brown color, similar 

 to the Clingman form. The largest of twelve specimens is 2S\, 

 the smallest 25 mm. diam. ; average of the lot 27 mm. diam. 

 Thunderhead, at the summit, in a sparse growth of scrub 



beeches, under bunches of moss on the trunks. The shells ar 

 ' e 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 127 



pale green or tiutecl with red. frequently with a reddish band, and 

 sometimes having an indistinct band at the suture. The largest of 

 six shells measures 25^ mm. , the smallest 22|^ mm. ; average of the 

 lot 24 mm. Mr. Clapp found nine shells, which measure, 

 *' Largest 26 mm., smallest 23 mm.; average of lot '24h mm. 

 One is dark red, four light, three with a single band, and one dark 

 above, lighter beneath. One has a faint parietal tooth." 



The shells inhabit a grove of beeches at the edge of the 

 " bald." The trees are dwarfed by the exposed situation, and 

 look, as one approaches the grove, like an old country orchard. 

 The shells differ from those of Clingman in being smaller on the 

 average and paler colored. The form is that of the Clingman 

 (iltivaga. 



Polygyra wheatleyi (Bid.). 



A characteristic and widespread species in this region. It is 

 allied to P. ferrissii rather than to the species with which it has 

 hitherto been grouped. The specimens vary considerably in size, 

 and in presence or absence of the parietal tooth, the variations 

 being mainly local rather than indiscriminate. 



Specimens from Cade's Cove (2,000 feet) and Thunderhead (up 

 to 5,300 feet) are of good size, 13 to 16^ (rarely 18) mm diam., 

 moderately solid, with very broad lip and a well-developed pari- 

 etal tooth when mature. Similar specimens occur on Block House 

 Mountain (south of Thunderhead), diam. 16 to 17 mm. 



Ferriss found some beautiful greenish-white albino specimens in 

 Cade's Cove. 



Miry Ridge. "Quite common in 1898, and intermediate be- 

 tween the Thunderhead and Clingman forms, the lip being narrow 

 and the parietal tooth small. Smallest of five, 14 mm. ; largest, 

 15^ mm. diam. Found down the western slope, from 4,000 to 

 4,500 feet. " — G^. H. C. 



On Clingman Dome the shells are all small, diam. 12^ to 14 

 mm. , thin, xoithout a parietal tooth, the aperture more rounded, and 

 the lip less flattened. This seems quite a well-marked local form. 

 It occurred from out camp near the western end to the summit. 



On Welch Bald the shells are like those from Cade's, diam. 

 14^-16 mm. Ferriss took it also along Chamber's creek. 



South of the Little Tennessee, specimens were taken by Ferriss 




128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



on Tiiskeegee Mountain (north of Tuskeegee creek), where they 

 are remarkably small, diam. 12-12^ mm., but the lip is wide and 

 a parietal tooth developed in fully adult shells. They are not 

 like the form from Clingman. At Bob's Bald, near Mt. Hayo, in 

 Graham county, N. C, the shells are very large, 20-23 mm. 

 diam. , the parietal tooth present but small. On Hangover Lead, 

 four miles east of Mt. Hayo, they are 12|— 13 mm., and all den- 

 tate. Mt. Hayo, 16-17 mm., dentate. At Tallassee ford of the 

 Little Tennessee river, the specimens are like those from Cade's 

 Cove. It occurs also in Glen Cove. 

 Polygyra christyi (Bid.). 



Roes Cove and Rowan's in Cade's; one specimen taken on 

 Clingman's Dome. South of the Little Tennessee, Ferriss and 

 Sargent found it on Tuskeegee creek and Cheoah river. 



Subgenus STENOTKEMA. 



The various interrelations of the Steiiotrema species have been 

 discussed in more or less detail by Bland, Wetherby and Binney. 

 Probably the primary division of the group should be based upon 

 the ej^idermal sculpture, the first five species of the Catalogue 

 Amer. L. Shells — spinosa, labrosa, edgariana, edvardsi and bar- 

 bigera, to which depilata should be added — having no erect hairs 

 whatever above, but short curved epidermal lamina?, running with 

 the growth-lines; while stenotrema, hirsuta and the rest have either 

 erect hairs above or arc nude. Species of the first division ai-e 

 more or less carinated or angular at the periphery, at least in front 

 of the aperture; those of the second division usualjy are rounded, 

 though sometimes subangular. 



This division of the group separates depilata from P. stenotrema. 

 of which it has hitherto been considered a variety; and as there 

 are several other characters of importance sundering the two, it 

 will be better to treat depilata as a distinct species. The distin- 

 guishing characters of depilata and stenotrema, and the varieties of 

 the latter, are shown in the follo\ving key: 



a. — Surface with short processes parallel tvith the groicth-lines 

 above, but no erect hairs anywhere ; parietal lamella slighter 

 and straighter than in stenotrema, the inner end not bending 

 in to meet the basal lip, outer end not passing under the 

 ])asal lip, when viewed from below; no callous ridge beiween 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 129 



the lamella and the peripheral termination of the outer lip ; 



space between lamella and lip wider than in stenotrema ; 



basal lip with a shallow median notch, but no notch or 



tooth on the outer arc of the lip; fulcrum quite small; 



spire high; periphery angular; surface hairless, with faint 



spiral strise and a silken lustre below. 



P. depilata Pils. 



a'. — Surface tvithout laminar processes above, hearing erect hairs or 

 none; parietal lamella very strong, crescentic, its inner end 

 curving in and terminating at the axis close to the inner 

 end of the basal lip; outer end also strongly incurved. 



P. stenotrema (Fer.), Pfr. 



b. — Surface densely though shortly hirsute or beset with the 



scars of hairs, both above and below. 



c. — Outer lip with a deep notch for the reception of the 



outer end of the deeply incurved parietal lamella, a 



distinct tooth outside of the notch; fulcrum long; 



form depressed; pale colored, fi X 10 mm. Wood- 



ville, Jackson county, Ala. 



P. stenotrema exodon Pils." 



c'. — Outer lip less notched and less distinctly or not 



toothed; fulcrum decidedly shorter; form more 



globose, more elevated, and usually dark colored. 



Typical stenotrema. 

 h'. — Surface without hairs or their scars; other characters of 

 typical stenotrema; 6^ X 10 mm. Nashville, Belle- 

 vue and Johnson City, Tenn. 



P. stenotrema nuda, n. var. 

 Polygyra depilata Pilsbry. 



This species was first found by Mrs, Andrews. It is not closely 

 allied to P. stenotrema, with which I formerly associated it, but to 

 P. edvardsi. It is known from high up in " Sugar Cove," on the 

 Thunderhead side of Cade's Cove (one specimen) ; near the sum- 

 mit of Thunderhead, where all our party took specimens, and 



"The names (jlobosa {Nautilus \\, p. 77) and subglohosa {Catalogue, 

 p. 14) are to be suppressed. Both are purelj^ nomina nuda. As not a 

 word of definition has been published, and as they are quite inapplicable 

 to the depressed variety here defined from Woodville, Ala., no good purpose 

 would be served by their perpetuation. Both typical ste/iotrema and var. 

 exodon were collected at Woodville by Mr. H. E. Sargent. 

 9 




180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



where Mrs. Andrews first found it, and Clingman Dome, near the 

 summit. " Ferriss and I found it on Miry Ridge in 1898, same 

 locality as P. ferrissii. Occasionally on trees in moss." — G. H. C. 



It also occurs on Andrews Bald, a spur of Clingman, in Swain 

 county, N. C, and south of the Little Tennessee river in the 

 northeastern Unaka Mountains, on Stratton Bald (Sargent). In 

 the specimens from this peak, collected not far from the 5,000- 

 foot contour, the notch in the basal lip is shallower and wider 

 from the obsolescence of the callus between it and the axis. ; 



It lives in Avet moss and on rocks ; not around logs, like our 

 northern Stenotremes. 



In size it varies but little, the extremes being 9^-10^ mm. 

 diam. The conic spire is lower in some individuals, there being 

 sometimes as much as 1 mm. variation in height in specimens of 

 the same diameter. The silky sheen of the surface seems invari- 

 able. Some albino specimens from Thunderhead are light green. 

 Polygyra edvardsi magnifumosa n. var. 



Shell small, dark brown and lustreless, often with some golden 

 streaks or spots ; the perijihery angular in front ; whorls 4^ to oh ; the 

 upper surface distinctly wrinkle-striate, not hairy but when unworn 

 showing short cuticular lamina? (like those on F. spinosa); lower 

 surface smooth, showing fine, slight spiral striiie, and sometimes 

 very short hairs or hair-scars. Aperture much as in P. steno- 

 trema, the parietal lamella well developed, curving downwards at 

 both ends, a callous ridge running from it to the peripheral inser- 

 tion of the outer lip; notch of the basal lip median, of moderate 

 size ; no tooth developed on the callus withiu the outer lip. Alt. 

 4.7 to 5, diam. 7 to 7^ mm. 



Brannon's and Chestnut Flats, in Cade's Cove, Blount county, 

 Tenn. (one specimen an albino) ; Welch Bald, on the Forney 

 Ridge (one specimen), and Welch Bald branch of Chamber's 

 creek (nineteen specimens); Chamber's creek (four), all in Swain 

 county, N. C. Also south of the Little Tennessee river, in Graham 

 county, N. C, on Tuskeegee creek (three specimens), and on the 

 Cheoah river, near the confluence of Yellow creek (^thirty-one 

 specimens). " Bob's Bald " (three specimens). Clay county, 

 N. C. ; at Hayesville (forty-three specimens). 



In all, 105 specimens from some eight localities, the exti'eme 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 131 



points about forty miles apart. Its vertical range is from about 

 4,500 feet on Welch Bald to a little below 2,000 feet at Hayesville, 

 Chamber's creek, Cheoah river, etc. 



Despite the varying localities, the specimens are remarkably 

 uniform in character. The largest specimen was taken on Cham- 

 ber's creek, measuring 5.7 mm. alt., 8.8 mm. diam, ; otherwise 

 typical. The pecuhar sculpture of the upper surface, resembling 

 that of P. spinosa, depUata, edvardsi, etc., and wholly unlike P- 

 stenotrema or P. hirsida, amply distinguish it from the latter 

 species. Compared with P. edvardsi, described from West Vir- 

 ginia, the var, niagnifiimom differs in the following features: the 

 parietal lamina is higher, stronger and more sinuous, with a 

 stronger callus between it and the upper end of the peristome; 

 the lip notch is deeper and wider, and the periphery is less 

 angular. 



P. edvardsi was collected at Burnside, Pulaski county, Ky., by 

 Messrs. Ferri&s and Sargent, the specimens differing fi'om the 

 West Virginians in the well-developed lip notch. 



P. barbigera (Red£). 



A single half -grown shell from Hayesville, Clay county, N. C, 

 Avas taken by ^Ir. Sargent ; and while the peristome is still sharp 

 and simple, the shaggy cuticle, fringed at the sutures, indicates 

 this rare species, 



Polygyra stenotrema ('Fer.' Pfr.)- 



Practically typical specimens occur throughout the region, but 

 in some localities, noted below, huge fellows larger than ever have 

 been recorded were found by ]Mi\ Ferriss. The localities are: 

 Tuckaleechee Cove, and Cade's Cove, including the dependent 

 "Sugar Cove;" Thunderhead, the specimens being very densely 

 hirsute above and below, 9-11 mm. diam., and have an extremely 

 small notch in the basal lip. 



Chamber's creek, Swain county, X. C. Diam. varying from 

 8.7 to 10 mm. Densely hirsute, the notch very small in two, 

 quite large in three specimens, the latter smaller. Another lot 

 from same locality consists of eight very large, densely hirsute 

 specimens, normal in form, varying from 7^ X 11 to 8.2 X 12.3 

 mm., whorls oh to 6. Some of these shells are the largest I have 

 seen of the species. 




132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Tuskeegee creek, Graham county, N. C, small specimens, diam. 

 9 and 10 mm., the form typical 



Tallassee ford of the Little Tennessee river, iMonroe county, 

 Tenn. Several large, globose shells, 11|^-12 mm. diam., and 

 some decidedly smaller, 8|— 10 mm. diam. 



Yellow creek, Mt. Hayo, Stratton Bald and Glen Cove, Graham 

 county, and Hayesviile, Clay county, are other North Carolina 

 localities where Ferriss or Sargent took specimens. 

 Polygyra hirsuta pilula n. var. 



Smaller than typical hirsuta, Avith more elevated spire; whorls 

 nearly 5, the last with well-rounded periphery, surface beset with 

 rather long curved hairs. Parietal tooth sinuous, connected mth 

 the peripheral end of the outer lip by a callous ridge. Basal lip 

 3-toothed, the median notch much deeper thau in hirsuta, with 

 raised edges, the outer tooth small. Alt. 4^, diam. 6 mm. 



The smallest specimens measure, alt. 4, diam. 5^ mm. 



Thunderhead Mountain, from near the summit to Cade's Cove. 



This form is not only smaller and more globular than F. hirsuta, 

 but the armature of the basal lip is difierent. The median notch 

 is much deeper, and instead of being a mere notch in a straight 

 calloused edge, it appears as a deep sinus between two wide, 

 irregular teeth. 



This form seems to be confined to the Great Smoky Mountains. 

 It was first found in June, 1895, by Mrs. George Andrews. 

 Subsequently Messi-s. Ferriss and Clapp collected specimens; and 

 the party of five collected it in 1899. We found it in " Sugar 

 Cove," " Lead Cove," "Rowan's" and Laurel creek in Cade's 

 Cove, and on Thunderhead, near the middle summit, among the 

 rocks where Ga,-<trodonta lamellidens was found. Sargent found it 

 on Welch Bald, and Ferriss took specimens on Tuskeegee creek, 

 below the Little Tennessee river, in Graham county, N. C. It 

 apparentl)' does not descend below 2,000 feet above the sea. 



This variety must not be confused with a small form of the 

 species which occurs in the mountains of Pennsylvania, Maryland 

 and Virginia, which is more depressed than var. pilula, and h:i^ 

 not the peculiar basal lip described above. In the West, Michi- 

 gan, Illinois, Iowa, etc., a 'form decidedly larger than that of the 

 Middle States occurs, still retaining the normal shape of the basal 

 lip. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 133 



lu the region of Roau Mountain, ascending to about 5,000 feet, 

 P. hirsuta is represented by another well-marked subspecies, P. h. 

 altispira Pils. This form is large, diam. 9, alt. 7 mm., with 

 high, conoidal spire, and broad, deep labial notch. It occurs also 

 in the Black Mountains, IST. C. (Hemphill), and in its area ap- 

 parently replaces the true P. hirsuta, as the subspecies p(7wZa does 

 in the Great Smokies. It has the habits of P. depilata, accord- 

 ing to Wetherby, living in damp moss, not under logs and sticks, 

 like the lowland P. hirsuta. 

 Polygyra monodon cincta (Lewis). 



Found very sparingly at Chamber's creek Church, on Yellow 

 creek, Cheoah river, iu Glen Cove, and at Tallassee foi'd of the 

 Little Tennessee river. The specimens are nearly typical of the 

 variety, which has more striking peculiarities of form than of color. 

 In the James Lewis collection there are specimens from Hayesville, 

 N. C. It was found to be a very rare shell by Ferriss. 



PUPIDiE. 

 Bifidaria contracta (Say). 



" Sugar Cove " and Laurel creek, in Cade's Cove (Ferriss, 

 Clapp and Walker); Thunderhead (Clapp, one specimen). It 

 is rare in the mountains. 

 Vertigo bollesiana Morse. 



Cade's Cove (Ferriss and Clapp); " Tuskeegee Mountains," 

 between Yellow creek and Tuskeegee creek (Ferriss). Very rare 

 in the mountains, and apparently quite typical. 

 Strobilops labyrinthicus strebeli (Pfr.). 



Cade's Cove (Clapp et al.) ; Tuskeegee creek (Ferriss). 



AOHATINID-ffi. 

 Cocblicopa lubrica (Mull.). 



"Sugar Cove" in Cade's Cove, Blount county, Tenn., and 

 ^' Ramp Cove," between the headwaters of Tuskeegee and Yel- 

 low creeks (Sargent). Very rare iu the mountains, a single speci- 

 men found at each of the two localities. 



OIROINARIIDiE. 

 Circinaria concava (Say). 



Cade's Cove ; Thunderhead ; Clingman's Dome, to near the 



summit; "Welch Bald; Chamber's creek. South of the Little 




134 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Tennessee it was taken by Ferriss on Tuskeegee and Yellow creeks, 

 Cheoak river, in Glen Cove, and at Tallassee ford. 



After his visit to the mountains in 1898, Mr. Clapp called my 

 attention to the fact that there are two forms of this species in the 

 Smokies, a larger and a smaller. This, however, seems to be a 

 case of Avide range of individual variation in size. Thus, of five 

 adult specimens taken in the lily patch near the summit of Cling- 

 man, the largest is 15^ mm. diam., with o^ -whorls, the smallest 

 12^ mm. diam., with 4^ whorls. Two others are 13f and 14^ 

 mm. in diam. 



A larger series taken on Thunderhead, in the Eagle Creek 

 region, N. C, between 3,500 and 4,500 feet, contains larger shell?, 

 the measurements of four being 18|^, 16^, 15 and slightly under 

 14 mm. There seems but little variation in the specimens from 

 Cade's Cove, adults measuring about 16 mm. diam. Of course 

 only specimens with the peristome completely developed are consid- 

 ered. Mr. Clapp' s note follows: 



" Largest from Cade's 18^, smallest 13^ mm. diam. Largest 

 from Thunderhead, 20^ mm., with 5 whorls; smallest, 14 mm., 

 with 4^ whorls. The small shells have a proportionately Adder 

 umbilicus. It may be merely an optical illusion, but the last 

 whorl of the small shells appears to be subangular around the 

 umbilicus. A specimen from Philadelphia, Loudon county, 

 Tenn., in the Lewis collection, measures 22^ mm. diam." 



ZONITID^. 

 Omphalina fuliginosa polita Pils. 



Fine specimens up to 28 mm. diam. occur in Cade's Cove. 

 Those from Thunderhead, near the summit, are not so large, diam. 

 25-26 mm. Mr. Ferriss took it also at Chamber's Church, at 

 the mouth of Chamber's creek, Swain county, X. C. In 1898 

 Clapp collected specimens along the bluffs of Little river, in 

 Tuckaleechee Cove. They are much smaller than the Great Snu^ky 

 shells, the largest being only 20 mm. in diam. 

 Omphalina laevigata ('Raf.' Beck). 



Mcsouiphix Ictvigata Raf., Beck, Index Molluscorum, p. 7, 1S37. 



Helix Icevifjata Fer., Pfr., et anct., not Helix IcEvigata Fenuaut. 1T7T. 



The name of this species has been long preoccupied as a Helix, 

 but I propose to avoid the obloquy of changing it by dating it 




1900.] NATURAL SCIE>XES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



from Beck, who really first defined the species by a reference to 

 Ferussac's figures, and whose publication was anterior to that of 

 PfeifFer, who has generally been cited as authority for the name. 

 The synonomy has been ably discussed by Mr. "W. G. Binney, 

 who, however, does not ci'edit Beck with the name. The type 

 locality is "Kentucky." 



N"ot uncommon in Cade's Cove, attaining 20 mm. diam. Those 

 from high on Thunderhead are rather smaller: the color being 

 decidedly green. Mr. Clapp took one specimen on the west end 

 of Clingman. Mr. Ferriss took duskier specimens on the Cheoah 

 river, Graham county, N. C. 



Two notable varieties occur near the Litlle Tennessee river. 



0. laevigata perlaevis n. v. 



Whorls more convex beneath than in typical Icevigata, the last 

 whorl much smoother above, not rib-striate, its width at the aper- 

 ture (measured above) less than one-third the diameter of the 

 shell. Aperture rounded-lunate, almost as high as wide. Alt. 

 9^, diam. 17 mm. This is from Tallassee ford of the Little Ten- 

 nessee river, Monroe county, Tenu. 



Omphalina laevigata latior n. v. 



Broad and depressed, more broadly excavated around the umbili- 

 cus than the typical form, the last whorl uider, its width at aper- 

 ture (measured above) one-third the diameter of the shell, and 

 far smoother than in Icevigata, being wrinkled irregularly, but 

 without the close, deeply cut and subregular rib-strise of the 

 typical form of that species. Aperture oval-lunate, far wider than 

 high. Color yellowish green. Alt. IS^, diam. 24 mm., or as 

 large as 14 X 27 mm. 



Tallassee ford, Little Tennessee river, 3Ionroe county, Tenn. ; 

 also Chamber's creek Church, at juiution of Chamber's creek with 

 the Little Tennessee river. 



A large, flattened and very gieen form, in which the rib-striie 

 are obsolete on the last whorl, and the aperture decidedly oval. 

 In 0. I. perkevis the base is more convex around the umbilicus, 

 the mouth much more nearly round, and the last whorl narrower. 

 (). I. latior has an elegant microscopic sculpture, which gives the 

 upper surface a somewhat silky lustre. 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Omplialiiia subplana (Biuney). 



In this species the apex, and inner whorls are striated, as in 0. 

 Icevigata, not smooth as in inornata. Splendidly developed speci- 

 mens occur in the Smokiest; tlie largest taken by myself in Cade's 

 Cove measuring 21^ mm. diam. On the flanks of Thunderhead 

 equally large specimens occur nearly to the summit, one in Clapp's 

 collection measuring 23^ mm. diam. A clear green albino is 

 among those collected there. As on Roan Mountain, it lives with 

 Vitrinizonites, but is not rare. The shells are hard to clean, 

 scarcely ever " pulling" well. 



It occurs, but rarely, on Clingman's Dome. Ferriss took speci- 

 mens on Block House Mountain and Welch Bald, and south of the 

 Little Tennessee river on Tuskeegee creek, Cheoah river, Mt. 

 Hayo and in Glen Cove. 

 Omphalina andrewsse Pilsbry. 



A very characteristic shell of the Great Smokies in Blount 

 county, replacing here the 0. inornata of the Cumberland Plateau. 

 The largest taken by myself in Cade's Cove is 16 mm. diam., 

 but Clapp took one 17|- mm. diam. On Thunderhead, near the 

 summit (about 5,400 feet), they are smaller, diam 12 mm., and 

 rather thinner. Specimens with a dark band above the periphery 

 occasionally occur. It is one of the most beautiful shells of the 

 region. Specimens were taken by Clapp on Miry Ridge, in 

 1808, diam. of the largest 17 mm. Also collected by Ferriss on 

 Block House, Clingman's. Welch Bald, Welch Bald branch, 

 Chamber's creek, and south of the Little Tennes-see river on Tus- 

 keegee creek, Cheoah river, ]\It. Hayo, in Glen Cove, and at 

 Tallassee ford. It therefore seems generally distributed in the 

 Great Smokies and northeastern Unakas. 

 0. andrewsae montivaga Pils. 



This form seems to show no intergiadatiou with andreivsa\ and 

 is chiefly notable for the prolonged form of the aperture. The 

 largest taken in Cade's Cove measures 19 mm. diam., and it is 

 usually over 17. They are smaller, 15 to 17 mm., near the sum- 

 mit of Thunderhead. Mr. Ferriss took specimens on Welch Bald 

 and Chamber's creek, and south of the Little Tennessee on Cheoah 

 river. Clapp took it in 1898 on 3Iiry Ridge, diam. 18§ mm. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 137 



Vitrinizonites latissimus (Lewis). 



Slopes on south side of Cade's Cove, about 2,000-2,500 feet 

 elevation; near summit of Thunderhead, lurking in deep moss 

 covering the damp rocks; Block House Mountain, just south of 

 Thunderhead; Clingman's Dome, not far from the summit, in 

 moss, on the Polygyra ferrmii and P. andrewsct altivaga ground; 

 Welch Bald; and below the Little Tennessee, Ferriss took one 

 specimen on Stratton Bald, in the northeastern pai't of the Uuaka 

 range. 



The species is ubiquitous in the Great Smokies everywhere above 

 2,000 feet, though not found in great numbers, and restricted to 

 moist places where moss carpets the rocks or logs. These conditions 

 are met on the lower levels v/here the mountain slopes are densely 

 shaded, but on the cloud-touched heights not much shade is 

 necessary. 



The shell of V. latissimus is often deficient in calcareous stiffening 

 in the region near the axis behind the columella, and it is more or 

 less shrunken or dented there. This is a significant feature, show- 

 ing that Vitrinizonites is varying toward the condition of shell we 

 find in Cryptoslrakon, Peltella, Gceotis and some forms of Gira- 

 sia," in all of which decalcification has aiFected the same region of 

 the shell. The following form, however, shows more impartial 

 decalcification, or, to be more exact, want of calcification. 

 Vitrinizonites latissimus uvidermis, u. var. 



Near the summit of Thunderhead and Clingman's Dome, in the 

 wet moss covering the rocks, there lives a form of Vitrinizonites 

 of about the size of hdissimus, but almost wholly lacking any cal- 

 careous layer of the shell. The cuticular test is more or less dented 

 and distorted in the living snails; and when " cleaned" the shell 

 collapses like wet paper, unless stuffed with cotton. The surface 

 is usually less brilliant than in V. latissimus, and the last half- 

 turn of the suture deviates somewhat more tangentially. The color 

 varies from as light as the ordinary V. latissimus of the region to 

 a very dusky, even blackish, shade. These " grape-skin Vitrini- 

 zo7iites," as we called them, live with the normal form, but are 

 apparently always easily distinguished as above indicated. A 

 cleaned shell quite resembles the empty skin of the ordinary free- 



'^ See Manual of Conchology, XII, second series, p. 211. 




138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



skinned Concord grape. The form was first found by Ferriss and 

 Clapp in 1898. It is not improbable that a study of the soft parts, 

 which I hope to find time for before long, will show it to differ 

 specifically from V. latissimus. 



Vitrea petrophila pentadelphia n. var. 



Shell about the size of V. indentata ; glossy, pink-brown, openly 

 umbilicated, convex above, composed of 4h whorls, those of the 

 spire slowly widening, the last much wider; surface sculptured with 

 many unevenly spaced radiating grooves similar in character to 

 those of V. indentata, but more numerous; and there are some 

 strise intermingled, the spire being more closely striate. X(j men- 

 tionable spiral strife seen with an enlargement of fifty diameters. 

 The grooves continue upon the base, but are weaker there. Aper- 

 ture broadly lunate. Alt. 2^, greatest diam. 5 mm. 



Cade's Cove, Blount county, Tenu., in many places — " Roe's" 

 and " Sugar" Coves, " Rowan's" and Laurel creeks — from about 

 1,800 to 2,200 feet elevation. Apparently wanting in the higher 

 region, at least not found by us along the crests and peaks; but 

 taken by Ferriss and Sargent on Stratton Bald, in the Uuaka 

 Mountains, Graham county, N. C, at what altitude not known, 

 and at or below the level of Cade's Cove on the Cheoah river, 

 near the junction of Yellow creek, and in Monroe county, Teun., 

 at Tallassee ford of the Little Tennessee river, near Caringer. 



This Vitrea may be briefly characterized as similar to V. petro- 

 phila, but with only 4^ instead of 5-0^ whorls in shells of the 

 same size, slightly wider umbilicus, less embracing and therefore 

 less deeply lunate aperture and usually pinkish instead of whitish- 

 corneous color. F. rhoadsi is a smaller shell with decidedly 

 narrower umbilicus. 



V. petrophila is not known to occur in the Great Smoky ^^oun- 

 tains." Judging from specimens taken by Mr. Clapp and myself at 

 Knoxville, Tenn., and part of the oiiginal lot received from 

 Bland, as well as other specimens collected by Ferriss and Sargent 

 at Burnside, Ky. , that species is very constant in charactei's. F. 

 p. pentadelphia seems equally constant in the considerable number 

 I have now seen, collected by Mrs. Andrews and the members of 



1' The form reported thence in the Catalogue of American Land ShcUs, 

 p. 27, No. 2G3, was var. pentadelphia. 




1900.] XATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



our party of 1899. It is the memoiy of this journey of five 

 conchologists which the name seeks to perpetuate. 



Vitrea carolinensis (Ckll.). 



This species has been discriminated from V. sculptilis in the 

 published accounts, but it is very much more closely allied to V. 

 indentata. Indeed, it becomes an extremely difficult matter ta 

 separate the smaller form of carolinensis, such as prevails in the 

 Great Smoky Mountains, from V. indentata. There is, however, 

 one usually decisive criterion: V. carolinensis when examined with 

 a very strong hand-lens, or, better, a compound microscope with an 

 enlargement of 25 or 50 diameters, shows a minute sculpture of 

 very even, close, clear-cut spiral engraved lines. In V. indentata 

 the same magnification only brings out an extremely weak stria- 

 tion or none; only rarely does it approach the condition of T'^ 

 carolinensis. 



This micro-sculpture is so minute tliat an ordinary pocket lens, 

 even a very good one, rarely reveals it. But I have seen very 

 few specimens which could not be definitely referred either to 

 carolinensis or indentata when examined with a compound micro- 

 scope. The sculpture is visible only in the " high-light " or point 

 of reflection. 



Common throughout the Great Smoky ranges wherever explored. 

 In Cade's Cove and the dependent valleys it has been taken in 

 many places: Rowan creek, diam. 6 mm,; "Brannon's"; 

 ' ' Chestnut Flats, ' ' diam. 6 mm. ; Laurel creek, diam. oh to 

 7^ mm.; "Sugar Cove," diam. 6 mm.; most of these having 

 been collected by Ferriss; the localities lying between 1,800 and 

 2,200 feet. 



On Thunderhead, near the summit, at 5,300-5,400 feet, on Block 

 House Mountain, and on the western end of Clingman Dome, 

 6,000 feet, they measure 5 to 6 mm, diam.; Welch Bald, diam, 

 6^ mm. ; and on Chamber's creek, adults 5 to 6 mm. diam. 



South of the Little Tennessee river specimens were taken by 

 Ferriss and Sargent on Tuskeegee creek and Cheoah river, diam, 

 7 mm, ; Hayesville, diam, 5^ mm. ; Stratton Bald, in the north- 

 eastei-n Unakas, alt. about 5,000 feet. In Monroe county, Tenn., 

 it occurred at Tallassee ford, diam. %^ mm. 



It was taken on Miry Ridge in 1898 by Clapp, whose largest 

 specimen measures 8^ mm. diam. 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Besides these mountain localities, Mr. Clapp collected V. caroli- 

 nensis at Oakdale, Morgan county, Tenn,, and Mr. Ferriss obtained 

 at at New Pittsburg, Teuu. (6^ mm. diam. ), and at Burnside, 

 Ky., diara 6 to 7 mm. I found a specimen among shells Clapp 

 and I collected on the south side of tlie Tennessee at Knoxville. 



Vitrea sculptilis (Bid.). 



This strikingly distinct species Avas taken in Cade's Cove and on 

 Thunderhead Mountain, up to the spot near the summit "where 

 Gastrodonta lamellidetu was found. The largest from this locality 

 is 7 mm. diam. Ferriss and Sargent add the localities Block 

 House, Andrew's Bald, Chamber's creek, in Swain county, and 

 Cheoah river and Stratton Bald in Graham county, X. C. Also 

 Tallassee ford and Welch Bald. It was described from some- 

 what below these localities, in the Anantahely Mountains, N. C. 



Under a strong lens the surface of this species is seen to be 

 granulosa in spiral series, and the edges of the radial grooves seem 

 somewhat raised. This is usually more prominent on the spire 

 than on the last whorl, 



Vitrea capsella (Gld.). 



Probably most of the examples from the Great Smokies are 

 referable to the variety placentula, Avhich is larger than typical 

 capsella, with an additional whorl; but one lot of seven shells 

 from '' Sugar Cove," oft' Cade's Cove, is typical capsella. The 

 largest shell measures 5 mm. diam. , and has 6 J whorls. Sargent 

 took it in " Ramp Cove," on Tuskeegee ^lountain, between the 

 headwaters of Tuskeegee and Yellow creeks, in Graham county, 

 N. C. 



V. capsella placentula (Shnttl.). 



Cade's Cove; Thunderhead near summit, a little smaUer. It 

 occurs also on Chamber's creek, Swain county, N. C. It is very 

 difficult to draw a line between capsella and placentula. 



Conulus chersinus (Say). 



Cade's Cove (Ferriss and Clapp). 



Zonitoides arboreus (Say). 



Cade's Cove, at many points (Laurel and Rowan's creeks, 

 Roe's, Braunou's, etc.), but not common; Thunderhead, at Spen- 

 cer's Cabin, under dried cow-dung, and near Eagle Creek ; Block 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



House Mountain, south of Thunderhead ; west end of Cliugman, 

 at about 5,800 feet, on logs. Chamber's creek and AVelch Bald, 

 Swain county, and south of the Little Tennessee on Tuskeegee 

 creek, Graham county (Ferriss and Sargent), and at Hayesville, 

 Clay county (Sargent). Also Tallassee ford. It is common at 

 Knoxville. Seems to occur throughout the mountains, though far 

 more sparingly than on lower country, and apparently varies from 

 the Northern shells in being somewhat smaller and frequently more 

 widely umbilicated. 

 Zonitoides patuloides (Pilsbry). 



I found one specimen under cliips in Cade's Cove, on the Thun- 

 derhead trail. Ferriss and Clapp took one or two specimens each 

 in various parts of Cane's Cove in 1898, and Sargent in 1899. 

 It is one of the rarest snails. 

 Zonitoides elliotti (Redfield). 



Cade's Cove; Thunderhead near the summit; Welch Bald and 

 Welch Bald branch; Chamber's creek, down to the Little Ten- 

 nessee, south of which Ferriss and Sargent took specimens on 

 Tuskeegee creek, Cheoah river and Mt. Hayo. Also Stratton 

 Bald and Hayesville, N. C. (Sargent), 



Z. elliotti is evidently allied to the preceding species, not to the 

 Gastrodontas, where I formerly placed it. It has the foot-grooves 

 and caudal pore of the Zonitidce, as Binney has stated, and the 

 resemblance of the shell to Circinaria is therefore meaningless. 



Messrs. Ferriss and Sargent took specimens of Zonitoides lateum- 

 bilicafus Pils. at Burnside, Pulaski county, Ky. This species has 

 not hitherto been reported from elsewhere than the type locality 

 in Jackson county, Ala. , where it was discovered by Mr. H. E. 

 Sargent. 



GASTRODONTA, 



The genus Gastrodonta is a most interesting one to the evolu- 

 tionist, presenting a considerable number of local forms. These 

 are of all grades between the shghtest deviation from the historic 

 types of the species and strongly marked subspecies, or forms 

 which apparently could be called specific. Taking the group (ex- 

 clusive of Taxeodonta) as enumerated in the Catalogue recently 

 published by the Nautilus, it divides naturally into three parts : 

 the group of G. ligera, containing intertexta, acerra, demissa, 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



cerinoidea and lujera; the rjrouj) of G. cjularis, containing colli- 

 sella, gularis, suppressa, ccelaxis, lawce and lasmodon ; and finally 

 the group) of G. interna, comprising that species alone. 



" G. elliotti " evidently does not belong here, but to Zonitoides, 

 next to Z. patuloides ; and G. macilenta (Shuttl., not W. G. 

 Biun.) is a synonym of G. lasmodon. It is often an excessively 

 difficult matter to separate young G. gularis from G. supjiressa, 

 yet they cannot reasonably be united specifically. 



Gastrodonta intertexta (Binu.). 



Cade's Cove, Blount county, Tenu. Also taken by Ferriss on 

 Welch Bald branch, Chamber's creek and Tuskeegee creek, and by 

 Sargent at Hayesville, N. C. Clapp found one sj^ecimen, an 

 albino, on the west end of Clingman. 

 Gastrodonta acerra (Lewis). 



Commonly distributed in the Smokies. Cade's Cov^ (variable in 

 size and form, measuring from alt. 10, diam. 16, to alt. 11, diam. 

 14 mm.; the high bee-hive shaped form prevailing); Thunderhead 

 (5,400 feet) and Clingman Dome (6,500 feet), somewhat thinner 

 and smaller, diam. 12-1.3^ mm. ; and in North Carolina at Welch 

 Bald, Chamber's creek, in Swain county, and south of the Little 

 Tennessee river on Cheoah river, Mt. Hayo, and in Glen Cove, 

 Graham county, and Hayess'ille, Clay county, N. C. ; also at 

 Tallassee ford, Monroe county, Tenn. (Ferriss and Sargent). 



The form of acerra prevalent in the mountains is generally 

 smaller and more elevated than Dr. James Lewis' specimens from 

 Monroe county, Tenn., and the last whorl seen from above is not 

 so wide. Occasional specimens, however, may be found almost 

 exactly like the IMonroe county shells, though the average or norm 

 of the mountain sheUs is perceptibly different. 



Mr. Walker got a sinistral specimen in Cade's Cove. 

 Gastrodonta demissa (Binn.). 



Rowan creek, Cade's Cove, with G. gularis (Ferriss). Also 

 taken at Chattanooga, Tenn., by Mr. Ferriss, and at Stratton 

 Bald, Graham county, N. C, and Harrimau, Tenn, by Mr. 

 Sargent. 

 Gastrodonta gularis (Say). 



The very large series examined shows considerable variation in 

 height of the spire, but is constant in the barely perforated um- 




1900.] XATUEAL "SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 143 



bilicus. The teeth vary as usual, ofteu curving strongly toward 

 each other, but sometimes nearly straight. The same sort of shell 

 prevails throughout naost of the localities thus far explored in the 

 Great Smokies, about 400 shells from that region having Ijeen 

 individually examined. 



The localities are as follows: Monroe county, Teuu., Tallassee 

 ford, and on Citico ci'eek; Blount county. Cade's Cove, in many 

 places. Along the Teunessee-Xorth Carolina boundary at Thun- 

 derhead and Clingman's Dome. Swain county, N. C, at Welch 

 Bald and on Chamber's creek; Graham county, K. C, on Tus- 

 keegee creek and Cheoah river, and on Strattou Bald (5,000 feet). 

 At Hayesville, Clay county, N. C. (slightly below 2,000 feet), a 

 series of over 100 specimens collected by Sargent shows somewhat 

 more variation than occurs in the other localities enumerated 

 above. The umbilicus varies from a very minute perforation in 

 nearly all examples to one about .8 mm. wide in a very few; and 

 of two specimens mth a diam. of 8 mm., one is 5| mm. high 

 with fully 8 whorls, another 4^ mm. with 7 whorLs. All inter- 

 mediate contours occur. The high examples do not have the full 

 basal whorl of G. colliseUa, and are true gularis in the mouth 

 parts. 



Gastrodonta interna (Say). 



Apparently does not occur abundantly in the mountains along the 

 Tennessee -Xorth Carolina boundary. Ferriss found it on Welch 

 Bald, Chamber's creek Church, and south of the Little Tennessee 

 on Tuskeegee creek, Cheoah river and Bob's Bald.^'' 



Section TAXEODONTA. 

 This little group comprises the thin little Gastrodonts allied to 

 G. multidentata. Comparison of the shells and soft anatomy 

 should be made with the toothed Conulus and with certain toothed 

 individuals of the Y. capsella group. Aside from these, the 

 group stands well apart from others. G. significans and G. an- 

 dreivsce are comparatively large and robust forms, the former widely 

 distributed and with teeth in pairs, the latter belonging to the 

 Eoan Mountain region, and with numerous teeth. Then we have 

 in the Great Smokies several peculiar species: 



'* Ferriss lists G. interna from " Brandon's Cove," probably Brannon's 

 Cove, subsidiary to Cade's Cove. 




144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Gastrodonta clappi Pilsbry. 



Described from Miry Ridge, where it was taken by Ferriss and 

 Clapp in 1898, but most of the few shells taken that year were 

 found at the lamellidens locality on Thunderhead. In 1899 we 

 found it at the western end of Clingman, at about 5800 feet alt., 

 on wet stones some distance below the surface. Mr. Ferriss found 

 a single half-grown but unmistakable specimen on Block House 

 Mountain, a peak nameless oa the Geological Survey topographic 

 map, lying south of Thunderhead; and Sargent took specimens on 

 Thunderhead, in the G. knnellidens locality. 



Xo specimens yet seen, either old or young, have internal teeth 

 or barriers. It is very distinct from the following forms by its 

 mucli larger size and conspicuously coarser sculpture, wider 

 whorls, etc. The type measures, alt. 3, diam. 5.5, width of 

 umbilicus .23 mm., whorls 6^. The spire is slightly raised. 

 The Thunderhead examples agree with the type in having a very 

 small umbilicus, the spire being slightly convex. A specimen 

 taken by Clapp on Clingman measures, alt. 3, diam. G.2,. width 

 of umbilicus .54 mm., whorls G^, the spire nearly plane. Below 

 " The Balsams " on the western end of Clingman, a few hundred 

 feet down the Tennessee side, I found two half-grown specimens 

 of about 3.8 mm. diameter, also having the umbilicus somewhat 

 wider than in the Miry Ridge type, though less wide than Clapp' s 

 specimen, and the spire nearly flat. It is unsafe to draw conclu- 

 sions from the three specimens thus far known from Clingman, but 

 perhaps that peak has a race with more depressed spire and wider 

 umbilicus. 



Four localities are now known for this species, the Thunderhead, 

 Miry Ridge and Clingman shells coming from a little north of the 

 interstate boundarj^ in Tennessee, the Block House shell from 

 south of the boundary, in Xorth Carolina. None of the localities 

 are far from the 5,000-foot contour, and the extremes He about 

 thirteen miles apart. The shells are extremely fragile, like most 

 forms living on the Clingman and Thunderhead conglomerates. 



The most assiduous search by our party of five in 1899 resulted 

 in finding fourteen specimens, most of them immature. About 

 as many were found by Messrs. Ferriss and Clapp in 1898. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 145 



G. lamellidens Pilsbrj-. 



A very gloss}"- and brilliant, dark reddish-brown shell, with the 

 closely coiled whorls and size of G. multidentata, but differing 

 from that species in never having radial rows of teeth, but having 

 obliquely radial laminae, three in young, rarely more than one or 

 two in adult shells. This armature is constant in a large number 

 of specimens that I have examined, collected by Ferriss, Clapp and 

 myself. 



Mr. Clapp has a similarly armed shell, very light colored but 

 otherwise typical, from Deering, N. H., collected by Mr. E. W. 

 Roper, and there is one (No. 57,106) in the collection of the 

 Academy from Greenwich, N. Y. The question arises, are these 

 not mere occasional variations of G. multidentata, which appear 

 sporadically, rather than a distinct species ? In this case lamelli- 

 dens is to be regarded as a race in which this rare variation has 

 become a fixed and, so far as can be proved by about 150 shells 

 examined, probably a constant character. And in this connection 

 the possible relationship to these forms of Conulus dentatus Sterki, 

 which has similar armature, needs investigation. 



In G. lamellidens the surface shows no spiral striation under an 

 enlargement of 50 or 75 diameters; it is rather deeply, closely and 

 regularly costul ate -striate ; and the width of the umbilicus is con- 

 tained about ten times in the diameter of the shell. 



The type locality^^ is a steep slope close to the middle summit of 

 Thunderhead, deeply covered with a talus of angular stones small 

 and large, in the interstices of which there is considerable mould 

 which supports a herbaceous growth. Vitrinizonites, Gastrodonta 

 acerra and a few Polygyra depilata are the chief dwellers among 

 the moss of the superficial stones, but, as Ferriss wrote last year, a 

 " quarry" must be opened to find G. lamellidews. Each one of 

 the wet stones must be closely examined on all sides before it is 

 thrown out, and once in a long while one or two of the snails 

 may be found, if one is in luck. They occur from a few inches 

 to a foot or more below the surface of the talus. 



Specimens have also been found by Mr. Ferriss at Block House 

 Mountain (near and south of Thunderhead), Swain county, and at 



^* By an error of my own, the locality "Clingman's Dome " was given in 

 the Classified Catalogue, p. 29. Xo specimens are yet known from Cling- 

 man, though it will probably be found there. 

 10 




146 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Strattou Bald and ou the Cheoah river, Graham couuty, K. C. ; 

 Sargent also took it at Stratton Bald. 



Gastrodonta walkeri n. sp. 



Size of G. lamellidens, and genei'al contour about the same; 

 whorls 5f ; umbilicus much wider and more open, its diameter 

 contained about bh times in that of the shell; surface rather dull 

 to the naked eye, under strong magnification seen to be extremely 

 finely and irregularly plicatulate-striate, the strice cut into minute 

 heads by close decussating, impressed, encirclinrj lines, l^o internal 

 aminse or teeth in adults, or with two transverse, curved barriers, 

 as in G. lamellidens. Alt. 1.45, diam. 2.9, width of umbilicus 

 .5 mm. 



Cheoah river, near junction of Yellow creek, Graham county, 

 N. C., three specimens taken by Ferriss. " Ramp Cove," on 

 Tuskeegee Mountain, between the heads of Tuskeegee and Yellow 

 creeks, several taken by Sargent. 



This form differs from G. clappi in the sculpture and in size. 

 It resembles G. lamellidens and multidentata, but is ornamented 

 with densely ci'owded spiral lines, and very conspicuously finer 

 growth-strise, and has a wider umbilicus. A half-grown specimen 

 of the type lot has two curved internal laminre, hke G. lamellidens, 

 with finely denticulate edges; the others have no internal arma- 

 ture. Four specimens from Tallassee ford of the Little Ten- 

 nessee, Monroe county, Tenn., have Ihe spirals rather more spaced, 

 and each has two internal denticulate transverse laminai; umbilicus 

 about one-seventh the diameter of shell. 



Of the specimens taken by Sargent, one from Ratnp Cove has 

 an internal barrier, another none; and those from Sam. Blair's, 

 at Tallassee Ford, vary in the same way. The decussated sculp- 

 ture is constant. 



The species will be most easily recognized by the finer radial 

 sculpture and wider umbilicus than lamelUdem, s& the spirals are 

 nearly or quite invisible under an ordinary lens, though their 

 development is an essential specific character. 



G. multidentata (Binn.). 



Oakdale, IMorgau county, Tenn., one specimen (Clapp). 

 Though not in the Great Smoky ^lountaiu area, this is included as 

 showing the southward distribution of the species. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 147 



G. significans (Bid.). 



" Ramp Cove, Tuskeegee Mountain," between the headwaters 

 of Tuskeegee creek and Yellow creek. Typical specimens taken 

 by Ferriss and Sargent. 



LIMACID^. 

 Agriolimax campestris (Binn.). 



Thunderhead Mountain, near the summit, common. 



PHILOMYCID^. 

 PMlomycus carolinensis (Bosc). 



Tuckaleechee and Cade's Coves, Blount county, Tenn. ; Thun- 

 derhead, to the summit, crawling on trees; Cliugman Dome. 



This species is common throughout the Great Smoky Mountains, 

 and the individuals reach a very large size. In the humid atmos- 

 phere of the mountain tops Philomycm lives in the open, on trees 

 and logs, not concealed beneath the bark, as in dryer localities. 

 PMlomycus hempMUi (W. G. Binney). 



" Sugar Cove," in Cade's Cove, at over 2,000 feet elevation; 

 Thunderhead, near the summit, on moss, etc. ; Clingman's Dome. 



The coloration of this species reminds one of Amalia hewstoni, 

 the back being black, fading on the sides to Avhitish beneath. 

 The jaw in a specimen examined has a group of four contiguous 

 ribs near the middle. The specimens collected were drowned, but 

 all collapsed in alcohol; and probably some other method of i^re- 

 servation would be better. 



ENDODONTID^. 

 Pyramidula alter nata (Say). 



Andrews Bald; Welch Bald, Cheoah river, Tuskeegee creek 

 and Mt. Hayo, IST. C. At Glen Cove, Unaka Mountains, Graham 

 county, N. C. (Ferriss), a distinctly depressed form, but not more 

 carinated than typical shelJs, occurred. 



Tj^pical specimens of P. alternaia carinata Pils. were taken by 

 Ferriss at Burnside, Pulaski county, Ky. Large specimens, up 

 to 22 mm. diam. This form is very strongly carinated, but rather 

 more finely ribbed than typical alternata. See Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., 1896, p. 490. The types of the variety were taken by 

 Mr. S. X. Rhoads, on the Emory river, near Harriman, Tenn. 

 It is a race of the Cumberland Plateau. 




148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900, 



Pyramidula alternata costata Lewis. 



We took this strongly marked variety in Cade's Cove and on 

 Thuuderhead. It has not been found elsewhere (see Clapj), 

 Nautilus, XIII, p. 41). Ferriss found a sinistral specimen in 

 Sugar Cove, off Cade's. 

 Pyramidula perspectiva (Say). 



Cade's Cove; near summit of Thunderhead, and near summit of 

 Clingmau's Dome. Ferriss adds the localities Welch Bald, 

 Chamber's creek, Tuskeegee creek, Cheoah river, Mt. Hayo and 

 Tallassee ford. Typical, and in Cade's Cove very abundant, 

 under slabs at an old saw-mill, near Blair's place. Beautiful 

 albino specimens were found in " Sugar Cove." P. hryanti does 

 not appear to occur in the Great Smokies. 

 Helicodiscus lineatus (Say). 



The mountain specimens are well developed, but practically typ- 

 ical. Specimens Tvere taken iu Cade's Cove at various points, 

 near the summit of Thunderhead, at Block House, on the west 

 end of Clingmau, and south of the Little Tennessee on the Tus- 

 keegee Mountains, north of Tuskeegee creek, on Bob's Bald and 

 on Mt. Hayo. 

 Punctum blandianum n. sp. Fig. 1. 



]\Ir. Clapp found two specimens of 

 Punctum somewhere in Cade's Cove 

 (probably in the dependent " Sugar 

 Cove") which differ markedly from 

 P. pygmceum. The umbilicus is much 

 wider than in P. pi/gunvum. its width 

 contained between 2f and 2f times in 

 the total diam. of the shell. The 

 aperture is smaller than in P. jnjg- 

 mccum. Whorls 3^; color brown; 

 surface -sculpture about as in P. 

 pj/gmcvum — very fine but rather sharp 

 strire along the growth-lines and 

 nearly obsolete spiral strire. The 

 spire is low conoidal, about as in P. 

 pygm(rum. 



Alt. .6, diam. 1.15 mm. 

 Fig- 1- It is named in honor of Thomas 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 149 



Bland, whose excellent work on Amei-icau land shells materially 



advanced the science. 



SUCCINEID^. 

 Succinea obliqua (Say). 



A rather thin form of this species occurs near the summit of 



Thunderhead, on leaves of herbage. Also found on Clingman's 



Dome. 



PLEUROOERATID^. 



The mountain streams aliove two or three thousand feet in the 

 Great Smokies are apparently barren of molluscau life, though full 

 of trout. The following occurred at lower levels. 

 Pleurocera aratuin (Lea). 



Little Tennessee river, at Tallassee ford, Monroe-Blount coun- 

 ties, Tenn. (Ferriss). 

 Pleurocera hastatum (Anth.). 



Little river in Chilliowee Gap, Blount county, Tenn. (AValker, 

 Clapp and Pilsbry). 

 Goniobasis proxima (Say). 



"Welch Bald branch of Chamber's creek, Swain county; Tus- 

 keegee creek, Graham county; and Mission creek, Hayesville, Clay 

 county, X. C. (Ferriss and Sargent). 

 Goniobasis safFordi (Lea). 



Chamber's creek, Swain county, X. C. (Ferriss). 



Appendix. 



In The Nautilus for January, 1898, Prof. W. H. Dall men- 

 tions, without description, a new variety of Vitrea wheatleyi under 

 the " varietal name of V. elingmaui," based upon " the large 

 form of Z. wheatleyi referred to by Binney {Manual, p. 222) as 

 collected by Hemphill at Clingman's Peak, IS". C." 



When on Clingman Dome, our party searched diligently for 

 this shell, but without success. On applying to Mr. Hemphill for 

 information, I learned that the " Clingman's Peak " of his label is 

 not Clingman Dome of the charts, but a local name for a peak 

 northeast of Asheville. Hemphill did not visit the Great Smoky 

 range. He writes as follows: 



" Black Mountain Station is on the railroad east or northeast 

 of Asheville. From this station I walked into the mountains 

 (north) about ten or twelve miles and stopped at a house near the 

 foot of ]\It. Mitchell, aud also near the Pinnacle of the Blue 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Ridge, In company with two other persons, I Aveut to the summit 

 of Mt. Mitchell and ' Chngman's Peak,' as they called it, and 

 remained all night. We carried our provisions and blankets. It 

 took nearly all day to get to the summit, and I had but a few 

 hours for collecting the next morning. If my memoiy serves me 

 faithfully, I got but little material on that trip, but judging by 

 the name, I suppose the shell called Z. wheatleyi cUngmani was 

 collected at that place and time." 



The specific name does not of course refer to the mountain, but 

 is to honor Thomas L. Clingman, who made valuable observations 

 on the geology and topography of North Carolina, and further served 

 that State with distinction in the U. S. Senate, before the civil war. 

 The following diagnosis and camera lucida outlines have been 

 supplied by Prof, Dall: 

 " Vitrea clingmani Dall. Fig. 2. 



" Shell extremely thin and fragile, of a trans- 

 lucent greenish color, polished, with five rather 

 inflated whorls; suture well marked, the envelop- 

 ing whorl rising slightly above it and not suturally 

 appressed ; sculpture in harmony with the incre- 

 mental lines, consisting of at first rather close-set 

 regular wrinkles which are obsolete on the base 

 and more distant in the adult near the last part of 

 the last whorl ; spire and base somewhat flattened, 

 periphery rounded, peristome acute, the upper lip 

 but little produced beyond the basal part; umbili- 

 ^^J^f^ cus narrow, deep; nucleus very small, smooth; 



major diam, Co, minor diam. 5, alt. 2.5 mm, 



" Habitat, Black Mountain, jS", C, near Clingman' s Peak, 

 Hemphill. Types 38,910, U. S. Nat. Mus. 



" This form was referred to Zonite^ icheatleyi by Binney, from 

 whose original specimens this diagnosis is drawn, but, as pointed 

 out to me by Dr. Pilsbry, the species to which our shell is most 

 closely allied is Vitrea jietrophila. The latter is of a waxen 

 whitish or pale straw color verging toward brownish, but 1'. cIukj- 

 mani is distinctly greenish; V. petrophila, though a smaller shell, 

 has, in all the specimens I have been able to examine, a larger and 

 more funicular umbilicus, and the lumen of its whorls is more 

 circular, ' ' 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 151 



MALLOPHAGA FROM ALASKAN BIRDS. 

 BY VERNON L. KELLOGG AND SHINKAI I. KUWANA. 



The Mallophaga described and identified in the following notes 

 were collected by ^Nfr. E. A. ^Ecllhenny from birds shot by him 

 at Point Barrow, Alaska. The determinations of the birds were 

 made by Mr. Mcllhenny. 



The two references given for each identified species are, first, 

 to the original description, and, second, to a complete list of the 

 Mallophaga from North American birds recorded up to the time of 

 the publication of this paper. In this list can be found for each 

 species all of the references to the occurrence of the parasite on 

 North American hosts, and also a complete list of all the hosts, 

 North x\.merican and foreign, from which the parasite is recorded. 



Docophorus lari Denny, Monograph Anoplur. Brit., 1842. p. 89, pi. V, fig. 9. Ke Hogg 

 A List of tlie Biting Lice (Mallophaga) taken from Birds and Mammals of North 

 America, 1899, Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., vol. XXII, p. 44. 



From Larux sp. Previously recorded by Kellogg from a dozen 

 or more species of Larus from Kansas, California and Alaska. 

 Docophorus alaskensis n. sp. (PI. VII, fig. 1). 



A single male taken from a Ross's Gull, Bkodostethia rosea (Point 

 Barrow, Alaska). This species closely resembles montereyi, but 

 differs in having the abdomen but little wider than head, while in 

 mordereyi the abdomen is one- fourth wider than head. It also 

 differs markedly in shape of signature and somewhat in shape of 

 clypeus, and the lateral abdominal bands present noticeable differ- 

 ences. 



Description of male: Body, length 1.6 mm., width .6 mm. ; head 

 large, dark brown; thorax, with dark lateral borders; abdomen, 

 a little wider than head, dark brown, with black lateral border. 



Head, length .55 mm., width .5 mm. ; uncolored front of 

 clypeus very slightly expanded, flatly rounded with three short 

 marginal hairs on each side in front of the suture; trabecuLx' large, 

 reaching almost to the distal end of the second antennal segment, 

 yellowish brown; antenna with segment 2 longest, segments 3 and 

 4 shortest, segment 5 a little shorter than segments 3 and 4 to- 




152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



gether, dark brown with distal end of each segment paler; eye flat, 

 with a long hair and a short prickle ; temporal margins with two 

 long hairs and a fine prickle; occipital margin nearly straight or 

 slightly concave; signature shield shaped with produced acuminate 

 posterior angle reaching the mandibles, anterior margin very 

 slightly concave ; antennal bauds blackish brown, distinct, poste- 

 rior ends turning diagonally inward, anterior ends, where inter- 

 rupted by the suture, turning in toward the base of the point of the 

 suture; occipital bands blackish brown, narrow, uniform, diverg- 

 ing, and separated from the antennal bands by a pale diagonal 

 space ; region contiguous to the eye dark. 



Prothorax short, broad, with slightly diverging sides and rovmded 

 posterior angles with one hair; lateral marginal bands blackish 

 brown, bending inwards along posterior margin. Metathorax 

 broadly pentagonal, with a series of seven pustulated hairs on each 

 latero-posterior margin beginning at lateral angles ; a dark lateral 

 blotch in each lateral angle extending inward along latero-anterior 

 sides. Legs concolorous with body, with darker markings. 



Abdomen, elongate, ovate; segments 2 to 8 with one or two hairs 

 in posterior angles ; segments 2-8 with broad black lateral bands, 

 which are narrower on the posterior segments; segments with long, 

 transverse, dark -brown blotches barely separated medially by a 

 paler line, widest on segments 3 and 4, and narrowing on each 

 successive segment; transverse blotches confluent medially on 

 segment 1, with a small, medial, angulated, uncolored emargination 

 on anterior margin ; transverse blotches confluent medially on seg- 

 ment 8 ; a narrow dark-brown transversal line behind the series of 

 hairs in each segment; segments 2-5 with three to four pustulated 

 hairs along the posterior margin, on each side of the middle, seg- 

 ments 1, 7 and 8 with one pustulated hair; segment 9 paler, poste- 

 rior margin with slight emargination and a few short hairs. 



Docopliorus melanocephalas Burmeister ; Handb. d. Ent., 1S39, II, p. -1^6 ; Kellogg, 

 List, 1899, p. 11. 



From Stercorarius parasiticus and (straggler ?) Oidemia sp. 

 (Point Barrow, Alaska). Previously recorded by Kellogg from 

 Sterna maxima (Bay of Monterey, Cal. ) by Kellogg and Chap- 

 man from Stercorarius j^omarinus (same locality). Recorded by 

 European authors from three species of Sterna and two of Laru^. 




1900.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 153 



Docophorus ceblebracliys Nitsch ; (ed. Giebel) Zeitsch. f. ges. Naturwiss., 1861, vol. 

 XVII, p. 528 ; Kellogg, List, 1899, p. 48. 



From Nydea nydea (Pt. Barrow, Alaska). Previously recorded 

 by American and European authors from same host (various local- 

 ities in North America and Europe). 



Docophorus cursor Xitzsch : Burmeister, Handb. d. Eut., 1839, II, p. 426; Kellogg, 

 List, 1899, p. 48. 



From Asio aecijntrinus (Pt. Barrow, Alaska). Previously 

 recorded by Osborn from Asio wilsonianus (Ames, la., and Lin- 

 coln, Neb,), by Kellogg from JBubo virginianns (Lawrence, 

 Kans. ), and by Kellogg and Chapman from Asio xnkonianus 

 (Ontario, Cal. ). Recorded by European authors from Strix bubo, 

 S. otus and S. brachijotm. 



Nirmus triangulatus Xitzscla ; (ed. Giebel) Zeitsch. f. ges. Naturwiss.. 1866, vol. 

 XXVIII, p. 378 ; Kellogg, List, 1899, p. .^3. 



From Stercorarius jj«ra.«/7/c»N (Pt. Barrow, Alaska). Previ- 

 ously recorded by Kellogg and Chapman from Stercorarius j^oma- 

 rinus (Bay of Monterey, Cal.). Recorded by European authors 

 from Lestrls, Stercorarius and Larus. 



Nirmus infectus n. sp. (PI. VII, fig. 2). 



A single female taken from a Red Phalarope, Crymojihilus 

 Julicarius (Pt. Barrow, Alaska). 



Description of female: Body, length 1.55 mm., width .42 mm.; 

 pale yellowish white, dark -brown head border, blackish lateral 

 abdominal bands; slight indications of the abdominal blotches, 

 segments 2-6 with small dark-brown median markings. 



Head, length .37 mm., width .26 mm. ; elongate conical, with nar- 

 row parabolic front ; four short weak hairs along margins of fore- 

 head, a short hair in front of the trabecuh«; antenna? short, segments 

 4 and 5 most colored, segment 3 longest, segment 5 longer than seg- 

 ment 4, with a few short hairs on the segments; trabecule short but 

 distinct; eye flat, with a long hair and prickle; clypeus transparent; 

 temporal margins with two long bairs and a fine prickle between 

 the long hairs; occipital margin nearly straight, with a few fine 

 prickles; signature distinctly colored, nearly pentagonal, slightly 

 convex in front, posterior margin weakly rounding, a dark-brown 

 cross band in anterior middle of the signature; anteunal bands 

 distinct, rather broad, bending inward at the suture ; temporal 




154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



margin for a little distance behind eye with dark-brown border 

 which narrows posteriorly; temporal bands indistinct. 



Prothorax short, rectangular, with a single hair in posterior 

 angles; blackish brown lateral borders which extend inward along 

 anterior mai-gin. Metathorax almost as wide as head, with flatly 

 rounding posterior margin, with one long hair in angle and two 

 groups of two each on each lateral half; blackish brown, lateral 

 borders. Legs concolorous with the body, tibiae darker than 

 femora. 



Abdomen elongated elhptical ; each segment of 1-7 with dis- 

 tinct narrow lateral blackish bands, slightly expanding at front 

 of segment and projecting across the sutures ; abdominal blotches 

 very slight ; segments 2-6 with small dark-brown ventral median 

 markings ; two or three hairs in the posterior angles and a series 

 of four longish hairs on the posterior margin of each of segment 

 2-6 and 8, segment 1 without hair, segment 7 with two hairs, 

 segment 9 short and with slight angular posterior emarginations, 

 two hairs on the posterior margin. 



Nirmus complexivus Kellogg and Chapman ; Mallophaga from Birds of California, in 

 New Mallophaga, III, 1899, p. 78, pi. VI, fig. 4 ; Kellogg, List, 1899, p. 5-1. 



From Trbuja eamda (Pt. Barrow, Alaska). Previously re- 

 corded by Kellogg and Chapman from Trbuja m'niutilla, and 

 Calidris arenaria (Pacific Grove, Cal. ). 



Lipeurus ferox Giebel; Zeitsch. f. ges. Naturwiss., 1867, vol. XXIX, p. 195, Kellogg, List, 

 1899, p. 59. 



From Diomcdea nigripes (Pt. Barrow, Alaska). Recorded by 

 Kellogg from Dioviedea alhatrus (Bay of Monterey, Cal.), by 

 Osborn from D. brachyura (locality ?), and by European authors 

 from D. exulans, melcmophrys and brachyura. 



Lipeurus confidens Kellogg, Mallophaga from Bii-ds of Panama, Baja California and 

 Alaska, iu New Mallophaga III, 1899, p. 'JS, pi. Ill, lig. 2; Kellogg, List, 1899, 

 p. 59. 



From Dioviedea nigripes (Pt. Barrow, Alaska). 



Lipeurus densus Kellogg, New Mallophaga I, 1896, p. 114, pi. VII, figs. 1, 2; Kellogg 

 List, 1899, p. 59. 



From Diomcdea nigripe-s (Pt. Barrow, Alaska"). Recorded by 

 Kellogg from D. albatrus (Bay of Monterey, Cal.), and from D. 

 nigripes (ott' Kodiak, Alaska). 




1900.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 155 



Lipeurus macilhennyi n. sp. (PL VII, fig. 3). 



A single female taken from a Black-footed Albatross, Dloiaedea 

 nigrijje-s (Pt. Barrow, Alaska). This Lipeurus is a very well- 

 marked species differing strongly in shape of head and body and 

 in markings from the other Lipeuri of the Albatrosses. 



Description of female: Body, length 3.6 mm., width .88 mm. ; 

 whole body chestnut brown with sharply defined, blackish brown 

 marginal marking on abdomen and thorax, and distinct antennal 

 and occipital bands on head ; body long, widening posteriorly to 

 fourth and fifth segments ; head small and shorter than wide, 

 forehead only one-third of length of entire head; clypeus broadly 

 and flatly rounded ; legs unusually large and stout. 



Head, length .53 mm., width .55 mm. ; decidedly short and 

 broad for Lipjeurus; clypeal front flatly rounded, with six short 

 marginal hairs on each side of the front, a short hair on the mar- 

 gin in front of the antennae which are short; trabecule small but 

 distinct, uncolored; segment 2 of the antennae longer than segment 

 1, segment 5 slightly longer than segment 3 or 4, the anterior end 

 of segment 3 and segments 4 and 5 pale fulvous, a few short hairs 

 on the segments; eyes prominent with a distinct ocular fleck; 

 temples flatly convex, with three short prickles; occipital margin 

 nearly straight without hair or prickle; whole head brown; an- 

 tennal bands broad and blackish continuing beyond the suture; 

 temples bordered by a very narrow line of blackish brown slightly 

 broader just below the eyes; conspicuous ocular blotch blackish 

 brown; two large blackish triangular blotches on the occipital 

 margin; no uncolored clypeal region, and no signature. 



Prothorax, very much wider than long, the angles very weakly 

 rounded; segment chestnut brown with dark -brown lateral border 

 extending inward, but leaving the middle portion of the segment 

 paler, posterior angles slightly projecting; two blackish brown 

 lateral blotches on the suture of pro and metathorax. Metathorax 

 with lateral margin slightly concave before the middle ; longer 

 than broad; segment chestnut brown with large, lateral, marginal 

 blackish brown blotch in front of the middle, and margin behind 

 the blotch dark ; four hairs in posterior angles, and set closely 

 together in a small uncolored space; posterior margin slightly con- 

 cave. Legs large, stout, concolorous with thorax, with distinct 

 dark border; front legs short, femora wide with small dark -brown 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



marginal markings; second and third pair of legs long; coxee of 

 third pair unusually large and flat, projecting laterally beyond 

 the sides of metathorax; femora long and broad, with dark- 

 brown border, tarsi short and In-oad at middle, with dark -brown 

 border ; claws pale brown; several scattered hairs and spines on 

 the legs. 



Abdomen, widening posteriorly to segments 4 and 5 which are 

 widest, segments 6 and 7 a little narrower than segments 4 and 5, 

 and segments 8 and 9 narrowing more rapidly; first four segments 

 with single hair in posterior angles, segments 5 and 6 with two 

 hairs, and long hairs, increasing in length and number on posterior 

 segments, segment 9 short and pale; segments almost wholly cov- 

 ered by large brown lateral blotches which leave a median paler 

 longitudinal space and distinct transverse pale sutural lines; lateral 

 marginal bands with conspicuous round-headed blackish brown 

 processes projecting inward, segment 1 with a single pair, seg- 

 ments 2 to 7 with two pairs, none in segments 8 and 9. 



Lipeurus laculatus Kellogg and Chapman, Mallophaga frt)m Birds of California, in 

 New Mallophaga III, 1899, p. 93, pi. VIII, fig. 1 ; Kellogg, List, 1899, p. 59. 



From Stercorarius sp. (Pt. Barrow, Alaska). Recorded by 

 Kellogg and Chapman from S. jyontarinus and Putfinn-'' creatopus 

 (Bay of Monterey, Cal.). 



Lipeurus protervus Kellogg, Mallophaga from Birds of Panama, Baja California and 

 Alaska, in New Mallophaga III, 1899, p. 31, pi. Ill, fig. 4 ; Kellogg, List, 1899, p. 63. 



From Lagopus lagopus (Pt. Barrow, Alaska). Recorded by 

 Kellogg from same host (Kodiak Island, Alaska). 



Although these specimens are from the same host and the host 

 from the same region as in the case of the type specimens, there is 

 a noticeable and constant difference in the shape of the head 

 between the specimens of the two lots. The Point Barrow speci- 

 mens have the clypeal margin distinctly flatter, and it is in the 

 character of this clypeal margin that specific ditlerences are most 

 readily recognized among the Lipeuri of the Grouse. This case 

 simply emphasizes the fact, referred to in the senior author's former 

 I)apers on the jNEallophaga, of the fiexible character of specific hues 

 in this group of insects. The peculiar habits of the Mallophaga, 

 producing isolation of all degrees from slight to nearly absolute, 

 renders their svstematic study an intricate but interestiujr matter. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 157 



Eurymetopus brevis Dufour, Ann. Soc. Ent. France, 1835, vol. IV, p. 671, pL xxxi, fig. 

 3 ; Kellogg, List, 1S99, p. f>J. 



From Diomedea nigripts (Pt. Barrow, Alaska). Recorded by 

 Osborn from D. exulans (Albatross expedition), by Kellogg from 

 D. alhatrm (Bay of Jlonterey, Cal. ) and D. nigripes (North 

 Pacific Ocean, off Alaska). Recorded by European authors from 

 D. exulans, nigripes and brachyura. 



Colpocephalum pingue Kellogg, New Jlallophaga 1, 1896, p. 1-14, pi. XII, fig. 5 ; Kel- 

 logg, List, 1S99, p. 72. 



From Diomedea nigripes (Pt. Barrow, Alaska). Recorded by 

 Kellogg from D. albatrus (Bay of Monterey, Cal.). 



Colpoceplialum paetulum n. sp. (PL VII, fig. 4). 



A single male from Arenaria interpres (Pt. Barrow, Alaska). 

 This small Colpocephalum belongs to the group of species including 

 ochraceum N. and Piaget's species related to ochraceum occurring 

 on shore birds, but diflers obviously from all of the hitherto de- 

 scribed members of the group. The long hairs arranged in trans- 

 verse series on the dorsal surface of the abdomen are pustulated, 

 thus differing from ochraceum P. and umbrinum P.; there are two 

 to three transverse series in each abdominal segment of the male 

 thus differing from spinulosum P. with but one such series; there 

 are no pustulated hairs on the head thus differing from pustu- 

 losum P. 



Description of female: Body, length 1.7 mm., width .45 mm.; 

 elongate with comparatively large head and legs; head golden 

 brown with dark-brown ocular blotches; yellowish brown transverse 

 blotches on the abdomen ; a distinct pale submarginal longitudinal 

 line parallel with the lateral margin of the abdomen; two or more 

 transverse rows of pustulated hairs on segments 3-8. 



Head, length ,37 mm., width .45 mm.; front rounded, almost 

 a semicircle, four hairs between the middle of front and the 

 latere -anterior angle of which the last hair is the longest, a very 

 short hair in front of the projecting tip of palpus; five hairs in 

 the lateral angle in front of the ocular emargination of which the 

 first is the longest; ocular emarginations deep, narrow; the eyes 

 undivided but with a distinct medial emargination ; the ocular 

 fringes prominent; four long hairs in the temporal margin ; occipi- 

 tal margin slightly concave, with four long hairs; color golden 




158 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



brown, ocular blotch dark brown, and narrow dark-brown border 

 on outer temporal and occipital margin; indistinct narrow brown 

 occipital bands, the dark-brown occipital margin expanded at their 

 bases. 



Prothorax, broad (nearly twice as wide as long;, with a spine 

 and two long hairs in produced lateral angles, posterior border 

 rounded with a series of eight hairs; color golden brown with 

 dark-brown lateral border, and a narrow transverse line across the 

 segment in front of the middle. Metathorax showing no marginal 

 constriction at line of union of mesothorax and metathorax ; sides 

 bare, posterior angles with a long hair and spine; posterior margin 

 straight, with a row of long hairs; color golden brown with narrow 

 dark lateral border. Legs, large, stout ; femora greatly thick- 

 ened and margined with golden brown ; with scattered prominent 

 hairs. 



Abdomen elliptical; several short hairs on the lateral margins 

 of the segments, some long hairs in the posterior angles ; a row of 

 unpustulated hairs along posterior margin of segments 1-2, two 

 rows of pustulated hairs on segment 3 and three rows of pustulated 

 hairs on segments 4-8, which are not strictly arranged in definite 

 rows except the most posterior ones ; color golden brown ; lateral 

 marginal blotches dark brown, separated from the median trans- 

 verse blotches by a pale submarginal band, which is parallel with 

 the lateral margin of the abdomen ; median transverse blotches 

 yellowish brown ; last segment rounding, with numerous hairs on 

 the posterior margin, two long hairs in each latero-posterior angle 

 and a few scattered hairs, color paler. 



Menopon corporosum n. sp. (PI. vil, fig. 5). 



Several specimens from a Red Phalarope, Cri/mophilus fulicarius 

 (Pt. Barrow, Alaska), and one specimen (straggler?) from a 

 Turnstone, Arenaria interpres (same locality). Ditlering mark- 

 edly from the few other species of Menopon taken from the Gral- 

 latores in the very broad abdomen. 



Description of female: Body, i.'i^ mm., width .8 mm.; small 

 head, mth obovate abdomen; color light chestnut brown with 

 dark-brown lateral abdominal borders. 



Head, length .29 mm., width ..")."> mm. ; front rounded, with 

 shght indication of median angulation: eight hairs between mid- 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 159 



die of front and the ocular region ; palpi projecting by the length of 

 their terminal segments, temporal margin ^vith three long hairs, 

 one slightly shorter and five short ones ; occipital margin concave, 

 with four hairs on the middle third; color pale brown, dark occipi- 

 tal margin and black ocular blotches. 



Prothorax broad, short, with lateral angles much produced and 

 bearing two spines and one long hair ; posterior margin flatly con- 

 vex with ten long hairs ; color golden brown. Metathorax as wide 

 as head, narrow anteriorly with rapidly diverging sides; meso- 

 thorax distinctly separated by marginal constriction and dark 

 transverse line; posterior angles of mesothorax bare, sides of 

 meso- and metathorax bare ; posterior angles of metathorax with 

 four spines ; posterior margin weakly convex with a series of 

 hairs; metathorax with broad transverse yellowish brown band like 

 those of abdomen. Legs pale brown with dark margin; femora 

 thick, with rather long hairs. 



Abdomen obovate, posterior angles of segment with one or two 

 strong hairs and adjacent short ones; a series of hairs along poste- 

 rior margin of each segment; color pale at sutures, black inter- 

 rupted lateral bands, and a yellowish brown transverse band on 

 each segment; a distinct pale and submarginal longitudinal line; 

 ninth segment rounded behind with narrow transparent margin 

 thickly set Avith a fringe of short shai-jj-pointed transparent hairs. 



Menopon infrequens Kellogg, New Mallophaga I, 1S95, p. 161, pi. xv, fig. 5 ; Kel- 

 logg, List, isgy, p. 75. 



From Oidemia sp. probably a straggler from a gull. Recorded 

 by Kellogg irom. Lams glaucescens (Bay of Monterey, Cal.) and 

 by Kellogg and Chapman from Larus delawarensis (same locality). 



EXPLANATIOX OF PLATE VII. 



Fig, 1. Docophorus alaskensis Kellogg and Kuwana, cj'. 



Fig, 2. Nirmiis infedus Kellogg and Kuwana, ? . 



Fig. 3. Lipexinis macilhennyi Kellogg and Kuwana, 9. 



Fig. 4. Colpocephalum 2)cetulion J^ellogg a,nd K.\i\va,na,, cj". 



Fig. 5. 3/enopo?i co?7)oro.s(a?j Kellogg and Kuwana, 9, 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



NOTES ON THE GEOLOGY OF SOUTHEASTERN PENNSYLVANIA. 

 BY THEODORE D. RAND. 



The work of the Second Geological Survey of Pennsylvania was 

 very pro^ierly directed chiefly toward the economic geology of the 

 State. Had reasonable appropriations, been continued, it is prob- 

 able that a more careful survey would have been made of the area 

 southeast of the Red Sandstone region, and we might also have 

 had what it is a disgrace to the State that we have not: a map of 

 Pennsylvania comparable with that of the New Jersey Survey or 

 to the Philadelphia Sheet of the U. S. Geological Survey. It 

 being the fact, therefore, that this region southeast of the Red 

 Sandstone has been hastily examined by the geologists of the 

 Survey,^ that their observations, in many particulars, do not agree 

 with those of the First Survey under that most careful observer. 

 Prof. Henry D. Rogers, and also that in this region there is differ- 

 ence of opinion even among those who studied it under the auspices 

 of the Second Survey, it seemed not improper that I should put 

 upon record numerous observations made in the leisure moments 

 of a rather busy life during the i)a3t twenty years, in the hope that 

 some little additional light may be shed upon the subject, and as 

 an aid to those who may wish to study the region hereafter.- 



I have written of some of the rocks discussed in this paper, Init 

 to make this one intelligible it will be necessary to repeat briefly 

 some of the facts already published. 



The region, covered chiefly with mica schists and gneisses and 



^ " In a single field season of seven months, a geologist who is to report 

 on a county of fifty-six townships has jnst tftnc dai/s (on an average) to 

 each toioishij) ; and in a State with sixty-seven conntie?, all of equal 

 importance to their iuhabitunts. and to practical science, it is evident that a 

 State survey can only aft'ord one full season to ea^-h county, unless its funds 

 be greatly increasetl or its duration be indefinitely protracted." — Second 

 Oeol. Stirvc)/ of Pa., chap. 4, p. 20. 



^ Having experienced much difiiculty in identifying localities already 

 published owiug to the changes of ownership of farms, quarries, mills, etc., 

 I have described outcrops with particularity, perhaps greater than necessary, 

 deeming it safer to err in the direction of clearness. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



soil derived from them, is, as is well known, a difficult one for 

 geological study. Exposures are often few and far between; ad- 

 vantage must be taken of every possible opportunity, such as well- 

 digging and boring, and even of the exposures occasionally made 

 by unusually heavy rains, while over large areas it is often impos- 

 sible to find a single exposure. Besides this, some rocks of definite 

 character are of very limited breadth, while others, well exposed, 

 vary in width so greatly and suddenly that mapping in the usual 

 method of connecting like exposures is very unsafe. Imagine, 

 for instance, the well-exposed limestone and hydromica schist west 

 and northwest of Conshohockeu to be represented by scattered out- 

 crops similar to those of the limestones and mica schists of southern 

 Chester county, the intermediate surface being covered with soil 

 as in that region, what geologist could possibly map the rocks as 

 1 hey really exist ? 



Of the rocks southeast of the Red Sandstone there are three 

 prominent series as to which there is reasonable accord among all 

 geologists : — 



I. Rogers' Third Belt — possibly Laureutian, probably a consider- 

 able part plutonic. A remarkably straight outcrop of quite uni- 

 form, very hard gneissoid rocks, striking about S. 65° W., and 

 extending almost unbroken from near Morrisville, Bucks county, 

 opposite Trenton, N. J., to west of the Brandy wine, apparently 

 anticlinal in structure, and the oldest rock of the region. This, 

 called Laurentian by the Second Survey and in my previous 

 papers, I prefer to call by the safer term Ancient Gneiss. 



II. Cambrian Sandstone. Rogers' Primal Sandstone, often 

 called Potsdam, No. 1 of the Survey — the oldest fossiliferous rock 

 yet discovered in this area. 



III. Limestone, No. 2 of the Survey, Rogers' Auroral Limestone, 

 formerly supposed to be equivalent to the Calciferous, Chazy and 

 Trenton Limestones of the New York Survey,^ though the recent 

 studies of Prof. Walcott seem to prove that is Cambrian.^ As to 

 the remainder of the rocks, opinions differ widely. Those covering 

 the largest areas are mica schists and gneisses. Among these 

 gneisses and mica schists are belts of peculiar character traceable 



^ Chap. 4, p. 113, where this opinion is Tery,forcibly asserted. 

 * A. J. S., January, 1894, p. 37, aud Vol. XLIY, 1892, p. 469. 

 11 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



for miles, for, as a rule, there are few well-marked sudden varia- 

 tions on the strike line. 



These gneisses and schists include Rogers' first and second belts, 

 Mr. Hall's Philadelphia schists and gneisses, and Manayunk schists 

 and Chestnut Hill schists; Prof. Lesley's newer gneiss of the 

 Philadelphia belt. The strike of these accords in the main with 

 that of the ancient gneiss, local deviations beiug common; the 

 subdivisions vary in width, their borders beiug usually more or 

 less divergent or convergent. The almost universal dip, northwest 

 of Darby creek, is northwestward, except close 1o the ancient 

 gneiss, where it is southeastward. It should be said, however, 

 that the apparent dip may not be the true dip, but merely schis- 

 tosity due to pressure. It is a fact, however, that this schistosity 

 seems to accord closely with changes in the constitution of the rocks. 



Southwest of Darby creek a southeast dip prevails. Southwest 

 of the Schuylkill similar schists and gneisses occur northwest of the 

 ancient gneiss. 



Minor faults are common, great ones may exist, but this has not 

 been proved. The age of these newer schists and gneisses and 

 their relative superposition is greatly in doubt ; indeed, hardly any 

 two geologists have agreed. Fossils not having been found, the 

 arguments are necessarily based upou lithological character and 

 eti-atigraphical position. It is, I believe, conceded that there is no 

 considerable break of continuity on the line of strike, except that 

 Mr. Hall regards certain hard gneisses in southern Delaware 

 county and some gabbros, as Laurentiau, untlerlying the newer 

 schists and gneisses. The views of geologists may be briefly 

 summed as follows: 



Prof. Rogers supposed the structure a simple syuclinal, the Chest- 

 nut Hill series, his second group, underlaid by the gueiss, which 

 rose to the southeast and to the northwest, his first and third belt*. 



Above his third belt he recognized the primal (Cambrian) sand- 

 stone and a series of rocks which he regarded as of the same age 

 stretching southwestward, and in western Chester county south- 

 ward nearly or quite to the ^laryland lino, here overlying the 

 Philadelphia rocks which he saw extending in a series of auticliual< 

 dying out westward under his primal rocks.* 



* First Geol. Sttreey of Pa., I, p. 228, quoted chap. 4. p. 68: "Bat to 

 the westward of the Branilywiue .... the primal series is spread proilig- 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 163 



Mr. Charles E. Hall, finding in Montgomery county the same 

 succession of rocks southeast of the ancient gneiss as northwest of 

 it, particularly the Cambrian sandstone (then called Potsdam), 

 and the limestone of Huntingdon Valley, supposed to be Silurian, 

 argued that the schists and gneisses of the Philadelphia series 

 succeeding to the southeast must be still more recent,* and likewise 

 that the hydromica schists of the South (Chester) Valley hill were 

 Hudson rivei*,^ and that these last spread through southwest Ches- 

 ter county.* 



Dr. T. Sterry Hunt' made a study of the region, and chiefly on 

 lithological grounds identified the Chestnut Hill series as Huronian, 

 the Philadelphia rocks as Montalban overlying the Chestnut Hill 

 schists. 



Prof. James D. Dana referred the mica schists and gneisses of 

 New York island and vicinity, which are certainly identical with 

 those of the vicinity of Philadelphia, to the Lower Silurian." 



N. L. Brittou wrote of the correspondence between the rocks of 

 southeast J^ew York and northern Xew Jersey of the gneissic and 

 schistose group and Dr. Hunt's Montalban." 



Prof. H. Carvill Lewis''^ identified the newer schists and gneisses 

 as Huronian, and in a later paper" contended that many, if not 

 most, of these rocks were *' of purely eruptive origin, consisting 

 of syenites, acid gabbros, trap granulites, and other igneous rocks, 

 often highly metamorphosed." 



Dr. Frazer referred many of these rocks to the Huronian,'^ 



ioiisly to the southward almost to the southern line of the State." Geol. 

 of Pa., I, p. 1.54. 



A brief but remarkablj' accurate description of the geology of Chester 

 county was published in a report of the Chester County Medical Society 

 about the year 1857 anonymously. Its delineations of the chief belts of 

 rock crossing the county show the author to have been most familiar with 

 the region. 



* Second Oeol. Surrey of Pa., A'ol. C^ x. but for Pottsville, Potsdam is 

 probablv intended. Ibid., p. xvii, and pp. 6 and 7. 



' C«, p. 12. 



« C, p. .54. 



' Second Geol. Suney of Pa., Vol. E. 



^^ American Journal of Science, June, 1B81. 



" School of Mines Quarterly, Vol. IX, p. 33. 



'- Journal Franklin Institute, third series. Vol. LXXXV, 1883, p. 424. 



^^ H. C. Lewis, Proc. British Association in Nature, October 8, 1885, 

 p. 560. 



^* " Ces mica-schistes, schistes a damourite, gneiss chloritiques et micaces 

 representent la plus meridionale et la plus orientale des trois bandes du 

 Huronien de ce district." Memoir sur la geologic de la partie sud-est de la 

 Pennsylvanie. Lille, 1882, p. 37. 




164 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



though questioning whether the limestone at Brinton's Bridge, 

 north of Chadd's Ford, were Huronian or Laurentian.^^ 



Di'. Frazer" regarded the South Chester Valley hill rocks as 

 older than the limestones. He also urged^' that much of the 

 sandy schist area of southwestern Chester county should be re- 

 garded as Potsdam. 



Prof. C. H. Hitchcock" referred the Philadelphia gneisses to the 

 Moutalban system of Xew Hampshire. 



Prof. Lesley, in his Final Report, se«;m3 to regard the limestones 

 of southwestern Chester county as Laureutian, ^^ though this opinion 

 is qualified on p. 128, where it is stated, " If the distinction 

 between the older and the newer gneiss be a valid one, the older 

 gneiss seems to disappear from the surface, going west from the 

 Schuylkill into Chester county, and the newer gneiss seems to 

 occupy the whole field south of the belt of South Valley Hill 

 hydromica slate in Chester. ' ' 



On p. 120, Vol. I, of the Final Report, Prof. Lesley gives 

 clearly his view of the structure on the Schuylkill section as 

 follows : 



"1. The lower, or Philadelphia mica schist and gneiss group; 



" 2. The middle, or INIanayunk mica schist; 



" 3. The upper, or Chestnut Hill garnetiferous schist group." 



" .... a constant general northwest dip, and these continue 

 for another half-mile to a serpentine outcrop along the s=outh edge 

 of the Bear Ridge-' older gneiss belt, but with reversed (south- 

 east) dips. Therefore there is here a synclinal basin, and then a 

 great fault, in which must be buried {^against the older gneiss mass) 



1* Memoir sur la geologic de la partie sud-est de la Pennsylvanie. Lille, 

 1882, p. 52. 



16 Second Geol. Survey of Pa., Vol. C* ; Proc. Am. Phil. Soc. Dec. 15, 

 1882, p. 517. 



I'C, pp. 35, 159, 311. 



18 Trans. Afn. Inst. Af. E., 1883, 1884, Vol. XII, p. 68. 



'' "In Pennsylvania the highland gneiss areas do not show their niarMe 



beds enough to be vrell studied but where they are thus exposed 



.... in southern Chester county .... they reveal the same facts as in 

 the New Jersey Highlands" (Final Report, p. 110). 



" There seems to be no probatde objection to be urged against recognizing 

 in the rocks of the Highlands of New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania 

 the rocks of the Adirondack region and of the Laureniian mountains of 

 Canada ; therefore the term Lanrentian gneiss has been free'y used in the 

 reports of progress of the Survey to signify the rocks of the Pennsylvania 

 Highlands" {Idan, p. 62). 



^^ Probably a misprint for Buck Ridge. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ' 165 



the Manayiiuk aud Philadelphia subdivisions; at least, this is the 

 best explanation of the structure which has been obtained."" 



From this brief summary it will be seen how very diverse are 

 the views of the eminent geologists quoted, and why a more 

 minute study was needed, for it seems incredible that upon the 

 same facts, clearly and correctly stated, conclusions so varied could 

 be reached by men so well qualified, some of whom, however, 

 made no personal study of the outcrops. 



The region is a portion of the great Piedmont plateau, but in 

 its northern part nearly covered by the Red Rocks. The Phila- 

 delphia rocks (in part) extend southwestwardly through Maryland, 

 where they have been studied by the late Dr. Williams, whose 

 papers on the subject are very clear and throw much light on the 

 questions which arise further north. '^ 



Dr. Williams divides the rocks of the Piedmont belt in Mary- 

 land into two distinct classes. " One completely crystalline, and 

 whatever their origin retaining no certain evidence of clastic 

 structure, and confined to the eastern portion of the plateau. The 

 second class are semi-crystalline, and while they have been sub- 

 jected to a certain amount of metamorphism and alteration, they 

 still plainly show that they were once sediments of ordinary type, 

 not more altered than formations which in other locations have 

 yielded fossils, so that there is no reason to suppose that their age 

 will not be determined on palteontological evidence."" 



That this conclusion is not unwarranted may be inferred from 

 his remarks on the " quartz schist " under which he describes most 

 clearly and unmistakably the Cambi'ian sandstone of Pennsylvania, 

 which contains ScolitJms in Chester county and abundant fossils 

 further west. He says " whatever the origin of the quartz schist 

 may have been, it is closely allied to the gneiss into which it 

 grades by imperceptible transitions. ' ' '* 



It will be noticed that in Maryland the highly crystalline rocks 



21 Trans. Ain. Inst. M. E., 1883, 1884, Vol. XII, p. 123. 



-- Extract from the Guide Book of Baltimore, prepared for the American 

 Institute of Mining Engineers, February, 1892 ; U. S. Geological Survey 

 Bulletin, No. 28, 1886 ; Bulletin Geol. Soc. Am., Vol. II, p. 301. 



2" Guide Book, pp. 79, 80. 



'* " The cleavage planes of the quartz schist are due to their layers of mus- 



covite Its most characteristic feature .... long crystals of black 



tourmaline .... invariably broken and their fragments stretched along 

 one line." (Williams' Guide Book, p. 103). 




166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



are to the east of the schistose belt. This belt, according to my 

 observations, extends but a short distance into Pennsylvania, near 

 tlie Delaware line, and is too poorly exposed to much more than 

 indicate its existe'nce, but there is evidence that it is largely intru- 

 sive. The map of Dr. Williams shows the rocks occupying very 

 irregular areas in Maryland. In Pennsylvania, however, the 

 margins of the areas are nearly straight, or at most gently curv- 

 ing lines, with remarkable uniformity of dip (cleavage ?) over 

 large territory. 



The work of Dr. Williams was well supplemented by that of 

 Prof, Frederick D. Chester on the gabbros of Delaware," confirm- 

 ing Dr. Williams' results, but seemingly proving the passage of the 

 massive gabbro into gneisses such as are common in the Philadelphia 

 schists and gneisses. 



If, starting at the northeast, we take a bird's-eye view of the 

 region, we shall find it a triangle with the apex near Trenton, 

 N. J., measuring about seventy miles southwestward with a base 

 of about eighteen miles at the Octorara creek, the dividing line 

 between Lancaster and Chester counties.-'" 



At this apex we find the ancient gneiss flanked on the northwest 

 by the Red Rocks, and on the southeast by the Cambrian sand- 

 stone, closely southeast of which are rocks typical of Mr. Hall's 

 Manayunk series. 



Southwestwardly we see the ancient gneiss widening and becom- 

 ing a prominent ridge, known as Buck Ridge. The Cambrian 

 sandstone continues on its southeasterly flank for a distance of 

 nearly twenty miles, in its turn flanked on the southeast by lime- 

 stone for a short distance, the schists and gneisses following. 



Returning now to the ancient gneiss, we see it fork near Willow 

 Grove, about eighteen miles from our starting point beiug divided 

 and its central part overlaid by the Cambrian sandstone. The two 

 branches of the gneiss continue southwestwardly, the northerly 

 soon covered by the Red Rooks, but reappearing and covering a 

 large extent of territory in northern Chester county, the southerly 

 extending southwestward, narrowing, and at the Wissahickon 

 becoming obscure or covered, then reappearing and widening 



" U. 8. Geol. Suri-cn Bill, No. 59. 



"* Except ia the Chester valley, ami to a very limited extent south of it, 

 my researches have not extended west of the Octorara. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 167 



rapidly, crossing the Schuylkill with a width of a mile; Darby 

 creek, seven miles from the Schuylkill, with a width of four miles; 

 Crimi creek, three miles beyond, with a width of five miles. 

 Here it again forks, the southerly fork, only about a mile wide 

 and extending not over five miles in length, narrows and ends 

 southwest of and near Westtown School; the northerly, with a 

 width of four miles, continues to the north of Westtown School, 

 underlies West Chester, then narrows to a little over a mile, 

 crosses the Brandywiue just above the forks, and ends at North- 

 brook, about two miles beyond. 



In nearly all this course we find the adjacent rocks to be schists 

 and schistose gneisses, in which are outcrops of the sandstone. 



Eeturning now to the vicinity of Willow Grove, we fiud, going 

 southwestward, the sandstone divided bj a limestone area. The 

 northerly and much larger branch of the sandstone continues, with 

 interruptions, to Valley Forge, whence it continues southwest- 

 wardly as the very prominent North Chester Valley Hill to Quarry- 

 ville, in Lancaster county. 



The southerly area of the Cambrian ranges through Edge Hill, 

 here approaching very closely that mentioned as being on the south- 

 easterly flank of the ancient gneiss, thence, through Barren Hill, to 

 Spring MiU on the Schuylkill. Here it becomes obscure, liut it 

 may be tracsd westward as far as Wayne, Delaware county, while 

 the sandy micaceous rocks, which seem to replace in part the 

 typical sandstone, continue uninterruptedly. In middle and 

 western Chester county the typical rock again appears among the 

 micaceous rocks. 



The limestone which first appeal's a short distance southeast of 

 Willow Grove rapidly widens and forms the Montgomery or 

 Plymouth Valley and westward the Chester Valley. 



A httle east of the Schuylkill tliis great area of limestone is in 

 its turn divided by a hill of hydromica schist, with no sandstone 

 visible between it and the limestone. West of the Schuylkill, the 

 southerly areas of limestone and sandstone become insignificant, 

 while the hydromica schist, not over a quarter of a mile wide at 

 the river, broadens (chiefly by two remarkable promontories) until 

 one and a half miles west of the river its breadth exceeds two 

 miles, while the northerly area of the limestone forming the floor 

 of the valley two and a half miles wide at the Schuylkill narrows 




168 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



to less tbau a mile. From the Schuylkill westward it is known as 

 the Chester Valley. 



Close to the southerly arm of the limestone occur mica schists, 

 not unlike those on the southerly side of the southerly ancient 

 gneiss. These schists, very narrow at the Schuylkill, widen 

 rapidly westward, while the hydromica schists narrow. Near 

 Northbrook Station, on the West Branch of the Brandywine, these 

 mica schists appear to unite with those on the southeast of the 

 ancient gneiss, while the gneiss itself disappears from view. 



This disappearance is accompanied by a large outcrop of serpen- 

 tine, a rock which northeastward seems to flank the ancient gneiss 

 on both sides in scattered outcrops. Here the northerly mica schists 

 become more quartzose and gneisses abound, much less massive, 

 however, than the ancient gneiss, and form steep and high hills. 



Included in the area of Prof. Kogers' first belt is the porphy- 

 ritic gneiss, occupying a narrow outcrop at the Schuylkill but 

 widening westward. It is remarKably uniform in its composition 

 and from its hardness makes a prominent hill through most of its 

 course. 



In the same area are the Fairmoimt and Fraukford gneisses, the 

 former apparently anticlinal at the Schuylkill, the latter with the 

 abnormal strike of nearly east and west. Both are noted for the 

 rare minerals which they contain. 



Resting on the higher summits of the newer gneisses and schists, 

 southeast of the ancieni gneiss, are patches of the Bryn Mawr 

 gravel, described by Prof. Lewis. At a much lower level, over- 

 lying similar schists and gneisses, occur the Delaware river gravels 

 and clays. 



It would be most systematic to study the region, beginning with 

 the most recent rocks. So far as the gravels and clays are con- 

 cerned this could readily be done, but they are so much better 

 exposed in New Jersey and Maryland and have been so well studied 

 by the geologists of those States and by i\Ir. AVoolman that nothing 

 T could add would be of value. 



Below these, however, it is the probably newer rocks about which 

 there is the greatest dittcreuce of opinion, while as to the older 

 there appears to be less question. For this reason, and also be- 

 cause the ancient gneiss forms a nearly straight almost unbroken 

 ridge through about fifty miles of the region, I have deemed it 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 169 



liest to begin with it, and to con.sider next the sandstone and lime- 

 stone, and afterwards the more doubtful rocks. 



In endeavoring to describe the rocks clearly and at the same 

 time to avoid as far as possible the description of areas simply of 

 geographical or political division, I have found some repetition 

 unavoidable, which I trust will be pardoned. 



The following is the classification of the rocks of the region, 

 except the gravels and clay, by Prof. Eogers, Mr. Hall and my- 

 self, the latter showing my view of the Schuylkill section, except 

 that the northwesterly ancient gneiss is not visible at the Schuyl- 

 kill, though to be seen not very far oft, both to the northeast and 

 southwest, and that the northwesterly Cambrian sandstone and 

 Cambrian schists are concealed at the Schuylkill. The Frankford 

 gneiss does not reach the Schuylkill. 



Prof. Rogers. 

 S. E. 



First Belt 



Second Belt. 



Mr. Chas. E. Hall. 

 Philadelphia mica 



schists and gneiss 



group. 



f Manayunk schists. 

 Chestnut Hill schists. 



I including steatite 

 I and serpentine 

 L belts. 



Third Belt. 

 Altered Primal. 



Auroral. 

 Primal. 

 Auroral. 

 Upper Primal. 



Primal Sandstone. 



Laurentian. 



Theo. D. Band. 



Frankford gneiss. 



Fairmouut gueiss. 



]Mauayuuk schists 

 i and gneisses. 



Porphyritic gneiss. 



^Manayunk schists 

 [ and gueiss. 

 r Chestnut Hill schists, 

 I including steatite 

 belt. 



Cambrian sandstone. 

 ^ Spangled schists. 

 I Lafa3"ette serpen- 

 I tine. 



Rogers' altered pri- 

 [ mal. 



Ancient gneiss. 

 f Rogers' altered pri- 



mal. 



Hudson river slate. 

 No. 2 limestone. 



-j Schists, spangled and 



j garnetiferous. 



L Cambrian sandstone. 



Cambrian limestone. 



Hvdromica schists. 



Cambrian limestone. 



Upper Cambrian 

 schists. 



Cambrian sandstone. 




170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Prof. Rogers. Mr. Chas. E. Hall. Theo. D. Rand. 



( Lower Cambrian 

 I schists and gneisses 



Lower Primal. -! (Chester county 



1 gneiss). 



Lower Cambrian 

 [ conglomerate. 



xA-ncient gneiss. 



Red sandstone. 



It is well recognized that no thorough study of the crystalUne 

 rocks can be made without a study of sections under the micro- 

 scope. I do not feel myself competent to undertake this, but hope 

 it may be done by more able hands, when undoubtedly much light 

 will be thrown on many points now obscure. To this end it is my 

 intention to present to the Academy, as soon as I can properly 

 label it, my collection of the I'ocks of the region, which I believe 

 to be nearly complete."' 



Tn preparing these notes I have been most generously aided by 

 many persons — by information, by taking me to points of interest 

 and by hospitality. Indeed, I may say that I have never asked 

 assistance but it was most freely tendered by owners of farms, of 

 quarries and others, and I regret that I cannot name all to whom 

 I am thus under obligation, but among them I feel that especial 

 thanks are due to Mr. Alfred Sharpless, of West Chester; to Mr. 

 William W. Jefferis, to Dr. Charles Schiiffer, to :\rr. John L. Bal- 

 derston and Mr. Eli Thompson, of Kennett Square; to ^lessrs. 

 David and Harry Wilson, of Gum Tree; to Mr. William B, 

 Harvey, of West Grove ; to Mr. Thomas H. Windle, of Coates- 

 ville, and to ]\Ir. Walter "J. Baldwin, of Romansville; and for 

 photographs to Dr. and Mrs. Charles Schiiffer, Mr. William C. 

 Stevenson, Jr., Mr. John C. Browne and ]\Ir. George Yaux, Jr. 



The Geological Map. 



With this paper I have deposited with the Academy a map, on 

 which I have represented the rocks as I have found them, except 

 minor details impossible to be «hown on a map of this scale. 



-' Since this WcOs Avritten the Penusylvauia Legislature has niaJe an 

 a})propriatiou and tlie United States Geoloffical Survey has undertaken the 

 further study of the geology of the State, l^r- Florence Ba^^oni. Profei^sor of 

 Geology in Bryn Mawr College having been placed in charge of the south- 

 easterly part so that my hope will in all probabilit3- be realized within a few 

 years. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 171 



This map is not intended for publication at present, because I 

 have been unable to procure a trustworthy topographical base. If, 

 as now seems certain, the excellent work of the U. S. Geological 

 Survey, as shown in the map of Philadelphia and vicinity, shall 

 be extended westward, it will give me pleasure to revise this 

 work. 



I do not wish to be understood as believing that the whole area 

 upon which is represented the newer schists and gneisses is covered 

 by rocks of one age. Future and more careful study will doubtless 

 divide this area, and I believe it will be made to appear that 

 paleozoic clastic rocks have been penetrated by igneous rocks both 

 basic and acidic, and that the resulting complex has been very 

 greatly metamorphosed and folded by dynamic action. 



The topographical base of the map presented, but not pub- 

 lished, was prepared from other maps, for the use of the Con- 

 vocation of Chester, by ]Mr. Charles G. Darragh, to whom I am 

 indebted for copies. From personal observation I can say that 

 there seem to be eri-ors in all the maps. That which I have used 

 for fieldwork in Chester county, and probably one of the best, is 

 Breou's atlas. The maps are of varied large scale, but when 

 reduced to one scale will often not even approximately register, 

 while the orientation is often in error. The boundaries shown are 

 approximate only. Exposures are rarely sufficient to make them 

 accurate. 



The Ancient Gneiss. 



The rocks forming the long, nearly straight. Buck Ridge, and 

 extending from near the Delaware at Trenton southwestward for 

 some fifty miles, ai*e, I believe, universally admitted to be the 

 most ancient rocks of the region, and to be, probably, the equiva- 

 lent of the Highland gneiss of New Jersey and New York. They 

 appear to be to a considerable extent of plutonic origin. 



There has been no controversy in regard to them in their range 

 through Bucks, Montgomery and part of Delaware counties. Ex- 

 actly similar rocks continue in the same strike line to range 

 through northwesterly Delaware county and Chester county, but in 

 regard to this portion geologists do not agree. My observations 

 lead me to distinguish these from what I regard as the more recent 

 series by the following characteristics: 




172 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1900. 



Ancient Gneiss. 



Very compact aud very hard, 

 never schistose unless decom- 

 posed. 



Stratification, or foliation, 

 generally obscure, never mi- 

 nutely plicated. 



Weather into (1) schist-like 

 masses, • which, however, will 

 not readily cleave. (2) Fre- 

 quently into very hard nuclei 

 surrounded by concentric coats 

 of decomposed and decomposing 

 rock (vulg. " niggerheads "). 

 (3) Frequently into loam con- 

 taining angular fragments of 

 blue quartz, but almost always 

 intermixed with 1 or 2, and 

 very rarely showing mica in the 

 soil. 



Blue quartz very frequently 

 present; particularly shown in 

 the soil derived from the rock. 



Rocks often uniform over large 

 areas. 



Margins usually marked by 

 steep slopes, making a well- 

 defined hill or table-land on the 

 strike line. 



Feldspars disseminated granu- 

 lar, rarely in crystals of any 

 size, and Avhen so porphyritic. 

 Usually tricliuic. 



Micas, chiefly biotite in very 

 small quantity and * dissemi- 

 nated ; muscovite non-existent, 

 or very rare. 



Philadelphia Newer Gneisses. 



Sometimes very compact and 

 hard, but always more or less 

 schistose; usually very schistose, 

 often soft. 



Stratification, or foliation, 

 rarely obscure; often much pli- 

 cated, both minutely aud on a 

 large scale. 



"NV^eather into irregular mass- 

 es, but more frequently into 

 loam, often showing mica abun- 

 dantly in the soil. The por- 

 phyritic gneiss only shows the 

 concentric (boulder) decompo- 

 sition. 



Blue quartz absent or very 

 rare. 



Rocks usually vary greatly 

 within short distances on the 

 dip line. 



Marginal slo]ies gentle, no ex- 

 tensive well-defined hills on the 

 strike line, except the porphy- 

 ritic gneiss and except west of 

 the Brandywine. 



Feldspars often segregated, or 

 in veins, beds or dykes, often 

 large crystalline masses (pegma- 

 tite), usually orthoclase or mi- 

 crodine. 



Micas, chiefly muscovite, gen- 

 erally abundant, often forming 

 a large part of the rock, also in 

 crystals and cleavage masses. 

 Biotite, however, not rare. 




1900.] XATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 173 



Ancient Gneiss. Philadelphia Newer Gneisses. 



Basic trap dykes commou, Basic trap dykes unknown to- 



usually small, the northeast (except some of 



the hornblende rocks, which 

 are probably altered diorites). 

 They occur southwest, but are 

 not common. Granite or peg- 

 matite common. 



As has been stated, the ancient gneiss forms a hill, usually 

 prominent, from near Morrisville, on the Delaware,-* opposite 

 Trenton, N. J., to Northbrook, on the West Branch of the 

 Brandywine, a distance of about fifty miles. 



In this distance it is unbroken, save by narrow gaps, most of 

 them with high precipitous sides. In the northeast it is bounded 

 on the northwest by the Red Rocks, and on the southeast by the 

 Cambrian, with iron-bearing clays. As stated, the hill which it 

 forms is known as Buck Ridge.-' Its structure is apparently 

 anticlinal, but it seems probable that this is due to foliation from 

 dynamic action. The dips vary so widely in short distances, and 

 are usually so steep, that almost any structure may be built upon 

 them. 



As has been stated, Buck Ridge forks a little west of the Pennv- 

 pack, receiving a basin of Cambrian sandstone, which divides it into 

 two areas, the northwesterly, soon concealed beneath the Red 

 Rocks but rising beyond the Schuylkill, to form part of the azoic 

 region of northern Chester county, north of the Cambrian of the 

 North (Chester) Valley Hill, and extending beyond Honeybrook 

 in the northwestern part of Chester county. 



Near Feasterville is the only limestone outcrop occurring in this 

 gneiss (Van Artsdalen's quarry). Accompanying the limestone 



^* In the final report, Second Geol. Survey of Pa., Vol. I, p. 125, it is 

 stated that the PhiladelpMa group narrows more and more, but reaches the 

 Delaware at Easton ; but on p. 79 it is stated that the old azoic gneiss is 

 seen rising from beneath the mesozoic brown sandstone at the Delaware 

 opposite Trenton. According to my observations the gneiss hill is northwest 

 of the Cambrian sandstone ridge which reaches the Delaware just above the 

 Hancock street bridge, Trenton, N. J. The ancient gneiss I have not seen 

 northeast of the cut of the Trenton Cut-off Railroad, near Woodbourne, six 

 miles south 70° west of Trenton. The rocks exposed in the river below 

 the Hancocli street bridge and thence southeast to the Pennsylvania Eail- 

 road bridge are typical Manayunk gneisses. 



^* Bear Ridge, Final Report, I, p, 175, is probably a misprint. Cf. idem, 

 p. 79. 




174 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



were many minerals, among them graphite, or plumbago, of which 

 a mine was opened southeast of Feasterville, and not far from Van 

 Artsdalen's. 



This is probably the mine referred to in the Final Report, p. 

 478, where it is stated that a mine of very pure plumbago was 

 worked a century ago near Bustleton, Bucks county. Bustletou, 

 however, is some eight miles to the southeast, and is in Philadel- 

 phia county. 



The southeasterly arm continues as a high hill through Abington, 

 but near Waverly Heights sinks and is shown only by loose 

 masses, and in one quarry. This quarry is of special interest, 

 because here we have the gneiss dividing two closely adjaceut areas 

 of Cambrian sandstone, precisely similar in character and little 

 more than half a mile apart on a geographical line, which would 

 be a little longer than the line of dip. The gneiss in this quarry 

 (west of the Limekiln pike, a quarter of a mile south of Edge 

 Hill village) dips N. (iO° AV. 55°, the southwesterly Cambrian S. 

 10° E. 70°, S. 20° E. 70°, the northwesterly strikes about S. 60° 

 W. vertical. 



A marked change in the topography is here noticeable. The 

 long straight Huntingdon Valley (limestone) has ended, the gneiss 

 ridge has disappeared, while the northwesterly Cambrian sandstone 

 ridge rises to a considerable elevation, forming the southeast bound- 

 ing hill of that part of the great Montgomery-Chester limestone 

 valley known as the Plymouth Valley. This hill, however, trends 

 more southward than the rocks, so that the ancient gneiss, the 

 southeasterly Cambrian, and the schists which lie to the southeast 

 of the latter strike into it. The northwesterly slope of the hill 

 is much more steep than the southeasterly. Westward, toward 

 the AVissahickon, the former increases, the latter decreases, until 

 at Chestnut Hill the southeasterly slope has disappeared, while the 

 northwesterly is quite steep and probably over 300 feet in vertical 

 height. 



Where the North Pennsylvania Railroad crosses this hill at Edge 

 Hill village, south of Edge Hill Station, the hill is wholly of sand- 

 stone. Following the crest of the hill southwestward, we find no 

 exposures, but soon the rock fragments in the soil are wholly of 

 the ancient gneiss, while the northwesterly Cambrian sandstone 

 forms a subordinate hill to the northwestward, (this last becomes 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 175 



more aud more prominent westwardly, forming Barren Hill). The 

 gneiss fragments are soon succeeded by schists and these soon form 

 the entire hill from a point north of Chestnut Hill to southwest 

 of the Wissahickon. On the north flank of this hill is apparently 

 a Eonconformable contact between the schists, the sandstone and 

 the ancient gneiss.^" 



On the Wissahickon, I have failed to find the ancient 

 gneiss, the schist occurring within a thousand feet of the 

 Barren Hill Cambrian sandstone, with low ground intervening, 

 but on Xorthwestern avenue, the northwest boundary of Philadel- 

 phia, it appears within two thousand feet of the Wissahickon, 

 soon attains an elevation of some three hundred feet, and widens 

 rapidly toward the Schuylkill. It is this rock that terminates 

 westward toward Barren Hill, the ridge to which the Ridge Road 

 owes its name, a narrow hill of schists and gneisses. cut off from the 

 adjacent table-lands of Germantown and Chestnut Hill on the 

 north, Ardmore and Bryn ]Mawr on the south, by the valleys of 

 the Wissahickon and the Schuylkill, which here both run in a 

 general course nearly that of the dip of the rocks, 1.25 to 3 miles 

 apart. The summit of the ridge is nearly level, while the flanks 

 are much serrated b}' the valleys of small streams flowing east- 

 ward into the Wissahickon, and westward into the Schuylkill. 



The Wissahickon and Schuylkill sections, though so short a dis- 

 tance apart, show clearly the great changes in the rocks of this 

 region within short distances. On the Wissahickon, as has been 

 stated, the schists are within a thousand feet of the sandstone. On 

 the Schuylkill they are over a mile apart. The dips are almost aU 

 steep. 



At the Schuylkill the ancient gneiss hill is most prominent. 

 Nearly a m.ile in width with very steep slopes it rises to an eleva- 

 tion of four hundred feet. The Schuylkill gap shows almost pre- 

 cipitous escarpments toward the river. Westward, the same steep 

 slopes on the sides prevail for about three miles, the belt widening 

 westwardly. The summit is comparatively level, and is traversed 

 for many miles by the Spring Mill road. 



Near the line of the Pennsylvania Railroad and the Lancaster 

 turnpike the floors of the adjacent valleys have risen so that the 



^o Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1890, p. 90. 




176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



hill, while reaching 450 feet to 500 feet in its highest ground, is no 

 longer very prominent. The Pennsylvania Railroad summit west 

 of Villa Nova, in a cut about twenty-five feet deep, is 430 feet above 

 ocean level. The gneiss is here two and a quarter miles wide. 

 Further southwestward it still widens, extending on Darby Creek 

 from the Roberts road and the Coopertown and Newtown road 

 to Devon Inn, a distance of three and a half miles. Although 

 no longer so bold a hill, its characteristics may be seen on the old 

 Roberts road, laid out near its eastern base and so hilly that a new 

 road, Bryn Mawr avenue, was laid out a short distance east of it, 

 and in the schists, to avoid the hills. West of Darby Creek it 

 still widens, and east of Crum Creek attains its greatest width, 

 about five miles ; between Crum and Ridley creeks it is divided by 

 a valley of schists, the northerly and main arm continuing, the 

 southern arm ending before it reaches Chester creek. 



The northerly arm is about three miles wide at AVest Chester, 

 thence it narrows, crossing the Braudywine above the forks and 

 ending near Northbrook. 



There being difference of opinion about the areas occupied by 

 this gneiss in Delaware and Chester counties, they will be given 

 somewhat in detail, premising that I include in it only the hard 

 non-schistose rock shown in the Schuylkill section, and along the 

 Pennsylvania Railroad between Rosemont and St. David's Sta- 

 tions, where it is sharply differentiated from the schists which ad- 

 join it on both sides. 



Mr. Hall found difficulty in distinguishing the schistose gneiss 

 from the decomposing ancient gneiss," but my experience has been 

 that they weather so differently that few mistakes would be made 

 if nothing but the soil were carefully examined. Added to this, 

 however, it is hard to find, except in the small tract southeast of 

 West Chester, an area of the ancient gneiss of more than a few 

 acres without unmistakable evidences of its presence; especially is 

 this true of the margins where erosion has been most active. 

 Among others, the area colored correctly Laureutian in C*, north- 

 west of Bryn Mawr, is changed on that in C% to schists, Mr. Hall 



31 " Many of the syenitic rocks of the Laiirentian are weathered to such an 

 extent that it is, in mauy cases, impossible to distinijuish them from the 

 adjacent and overlj'ing feldspathic schistose gneisses, and it is therefore 

 impossible to liravv a delinite dividing line betweeu them " (C-", p. 92). 




1900.] KATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 177 



raying (p. 22), "I have since beeu able to trace the schistose 

 rocks all the way from Br^ii Mawr to the serpentine localities 

 in the vicinity of ^3)116 in Radnor township, thus connecting the 

 two areas and proving the schistose rocks to extend across the 

 Laurentian belt " 



I have already published^' a number of localities within this 

 area where the undecomposed hard ancient gneiss of most typical 

 character may be observed. Since that time it has beeu exposed 

 in many other places within the region thus changed, notably in 

 quarries on the Wayne estate, east of the northwest branch of 

 Ithan creek north of the road from Radnor Station to St. David's 

 Church; in a well 70 feet deep on Mr. Robert Stewart's property, 

 near St. David's Station; in a large well 50 feet deep on Pennsyl- 

 vania Railroad property, close to Radnor Station, dug in 1892- 

 1893, as well as at many localities on both sides of Darby creek. 



The northwest border line being the most regular and best defined, 

 it will be traced first. With the map in C® my observations agree, 

 but the later map in C^ is certainly in error as to the north- 

 west boundary as well as the southeast. The schists do occur 

 north and northwest of Radnor Station, in Cream Valley, but 

 not at all east or south of that valley. Within a short distance 

 are at least a dozen conspicuous outcrops of unmistakable ancient 

 gneiss. The line is nearly straight S. 63° W, from the Schuylkill 

 through Lower Merion and Radnor, as far as St. David's Station, 

 where the railroad emerges from it through a cut in which the 

 rock was well exposed; thence to Devon the border line is about 

 S. 80° W., and thence to West Chester S. 60° W. Northwest of 

 West Chester it bends rapidly southward, crossing the East Branch 

 of the Brandywine south of Copesville, and then still curving 

 southward crosses the West Branch of the Brandywine east of 

 Xorthbrook, The S. 60° W. line is not strictly so, but curved, 

 with that as the general direction. 



The southea8terly boundary from the Schuylkill to Rosemont is 

 so well defined by the ridge itself as to be unquestionable. 



At Rosemont (in Lower Merion, Montgomery county, but very 

 close to the Delaware county line) in excavations about the station 

 the spangled schists were exposed, particularly in wells and in the 



^^ Second Geol. Survey of Pa., An. Eep., 1888, part iv, p. 1573 et seg. 

 ]2 




l78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



trenches dug for the abutments of the railroad bridge at Rosemont 

 Station, dipping S. 45° E. 50°. About 500 feet northwest was 

 an old quarry showing the ancient gneiss with abundance of large 

 masses on the surface. It is exposed also in the bed of the Dela- 

 ware-Montgomery county line road, about a quarter of a mile 

 northwest of Rosemont Station. About a quarter of a mile south- 

 west of Rosemont Station the old Lancaster road, or Conestoga 

 road, crosses a small stream, a branch of Meadow-brook, and then 

 going Avestwardly climbs the gneiss hill. About 800 feet east of 

 this stream the schists are exposed in the road ; about 600 feet west 

 of it the gneiss is well exposed in a quarry on the north side of 

 the road, the rock dipping southeast 65°. 



On Ithan creek the schists may be seen close to Bryn Mawr 

 avenue, thence northward the banks are of the gneiss to its source, 

 there being many exposures. 



On the Radnor and Chester road, occupying from Ithan P. 0. 

 to the mouth of IMeadow -brook the watershed between Ithan and 

 Darby creeks, the schists are exposed near the Roberts road and 

 Darby creek; thence northwestward for miles the gneiss is exposed 

 at frequent intervals. 



On the right bank of Darby creek, the Coopertown and New- 

 town Square road (in fact, the prolongation southwestward of the 

 Roberts road) is in the schists which are exposed in the cut just 

 southwest of the creek, while the gneiss is exposed in a quarry 

 less than a hundred feet north of the road, and thence constantly 

 on both banks very nearly to its source. 



Immediately to the south of this road is the large serpentine 

 outcrop (the continuation, I believe, of the La Fayette belt) 

 which contained Moro Phillips' chrome mine, and which extends 

 from east of Darby creek through ]\Iarple township. In a cut 

 made for the Chester County Railroad, the gneiss is well exposed 

 a short distance northwest of the serpentine and of Fawkes run, 

 close to the Radnor-Newtown township line. 



Mr. Hall maps the whole area from Ithan creek on the east to 

 Crum creek on the west (and beyond it) as far north as Camp 

 run, Reese's run and Central Square as of schists, but the three 

 localities last mentioned, embracing many outci'ops, are within 

 this area, and show the rock uuweathered and indisputable. 



The southerly border of the gneiss is not well defined between 




1900.] NATURAI. SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 179" 



Darby and Crum creeks, but the rock appears ou the latter at^the 

 mouth of Hunter's ruu. It is well defined at Ridley creek, close 

 to the serpentine of the Blue Hill Schoolhouse, two miles north of 

 Media. The schists are well exposed southeast of the serpentine, 

 and typical ancient gneiss close northwest of it. 



Across the creek from the Blue Hill Schoolhouse, that is on the 

 right or westerly bank, the southerly border of the gneiss forms^a 

 high hill very steep on its south side, divided by a branch of Dismal 

 ruu into two, known locally as Poplar Hill and Round Top ; but 

 west of this the border is not clear, exposures being few and poor, 

 and the gneisses of the newer series adjoining it ou the southeast 

 being of unusually hard and heavy bedded character, and being 

 possibly altered gabbros. There can, however, be little doubt that 

 it extends south of Howellville, but not as far as Lima, and that 

 before reaching Chester creek the margin turns northward and then 

 eastward (forming the southerly hill of the valley in which the 

 Street road runs) to a point a little east of the "Willistown Inn, 

 on the Philadelphia and West Chester road, this hill outlining the 

 southerly branch of the gneiss i-eferred to. From "Willistown Inn 

 the southerly edge of the northern and larger branch pursues a 

 west-southwest course to a point north of Oakbourne Station. ^^ 



^^ On the map ia C^ the gneiss area of Eadnor and west is made to end 

 north of Newtown and Central Squares, the schist areas to the east beiug ex- 

 tended across Newtown and Edgemout to the Chester caunty line. South- 

 west of this schist area is represented a large area of the gneiss, extending 

 along Kidley creek from Sycamore Mills to the Chester county line. West- 

 ward it forks into three very irregular area^, one trending a little south of 

 west, another south^vest and the third south-southwest. But the Eadnor 

 gneiss is very conspicuously continued through Newtown and along Crum 

 creek, and the schists and schistose gneisses are equally conspicuous on the 

 south of the gneiss from Sycamore Mills to south of Howellville. Prof. 

 Lesley seems to doubt these areas, for although on p. 91 of his Final Report 

 he refers to irregular areas of old syenitic azoic gneiss in Delaware and south- 

 ern Chester counties, he says (p. 128} : " If the distinction between the older 

 and the newer gneiss be a valid one. the older gneiss seems to disappear 

 from the surface going west from the Schuylkill into Chester county and 

 the newer gneiss seems to occupy the whale field south of the belt of South 

 Yalley Hill hydromica slate in Chester." 



Within the'limits described there is no scarcity of outcrops of the typical 

 rock, but at very few of them can the dip be measured ; the following may 

 be selected as typical exposures within the area designated as schists on the 

 map in C^ : — 



Cut of the Philadelphia and Delaware County Eailroad, northwest of 

 Fawkes run and near The Hunt station. 



Road between Newtown Square and Central Square. 



Forks of the road .75 m. west of Newtown Square and thence westward on 

 both roads to Crum Creek. On the southerly it is shown in one outcrop, 




180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



In the region northwest of Oakbourne, that is near West Chester, 

 there is no longer difficulty in finding the line. The ancient gneiss 

 is exposed a short distance northwest of Westtown School, while 

 the schists are exposed west and south of it. Thence the line curves 

 northwardly and changes from west-southwest to nearly west, the 

 gneiss appearing one-tenth mile northwest of the schoolhouse at Scon- 

 nelltown, while serpentine succeeded by schists lies southwest of it. 



On the Brandywine the line is close to the forks, and on the 

 right bank is marked by a steep conical hill. It is at this point 

 probably not over half a mile wide. A mile to the westward it 

 forms a separate high ridge known as Brag Hill, separated from 

 the conical hill by the deep valley of a small affluent of the 

 Brandywine; the gap affording an easy passage for the State 

 road.^* A mile further, near Xorthbrook, it has become still nar- 

 rower, occupying but the northerly slope of the hill, with schists 

 and serpentine on both flanks. A mile southwest of Northbrook 

 it appears to end, the schists on both sides uniting and a large 

 outcrop of serpentine appearing. 



The limits of the ancient gneiss above given accord closely with 

 those of Prof. Rogers,^ but as stated differ materially from those 

 in C% while in C* no distinction is made upon the map between 

 the ancient gneiss and the schists, though they are separated in the 

 text. They differ also from the more recent geological map of the 

 whole State (1893). 



Prof. Lesley says of the gneiss ' ' from the gorge of the Nesham- 



300'' east of serpentine, dipping S. 25° E. 75°, and in another. 200' west of the 

 serpentine, S. 50° E. 75° along and south of the West Branch of Kidlej- 

 creek, north of Howellville. 



^* In C*, p. 56, it is stated that the area of this gneiss, which is the con- 

 tinuation of that of Dehiware county, has a vrestein limit in the vicinity 

 of We^t Chester, but that a small area occurs at the junction of the East and 

 West branches of the Brandywine, surrounded by mica schists and micaceous 

 gneisses similar to those along the northern edge of the syenite east of West 

 Chester. This does not at all agree Avith my observations. The northern 

 border is very well defined with numerous outcrops and quarries along Tay- 

 lor's run to the East branch of the Brandywine and thence through the 

 Worth farm (southeast of serpentine) to the West branch at Seeds Bridge 

 and thence westward across the State road to Northbrook. The southern 

 border passes between the Philadelphia and West Chester road, which is 

 wholly within it from Willistown Inn to West Chester, and the Street road 

 which is in the schist valley. The area appears to narrow rapidly toward 

 the Brandywine, the union of the two branches of the creek being at the 

 border. In this arfa it is constautlv and well exposed. 



" Geol of Pa., I, p. 78. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



iny to the gorge of the Penuypack it makes what is locally known 

 as the Buck Ridge, with a constant width of two and one-half 

 miles. At Willow Grove it splits, .... its southern fork keep- 

 ing on as a narrow thread into Delaware county, where it spreads 

 out into three separate areas, the northern one passing on into 

 southern Chester and the southern one into the State of Dela- 

 ware.'"" 



I cannot believe that Prof. Lesley personally examined this 

 region, for instead of being a narrow thread in Delaware county 

 it there attains its greatest width, more than double its width 

 between the Xeshaminy and the Pennypack ; the northern area 

 does not extend into southern Chester county, neither does a southern 

 one pass into Delaware, unless the northwesterly extension of the 

 Delaware gabbro be so regarded. 



A prominent feature of tliis belt is its trap dj'kes. 'None are 

 large, none can be traoed for any distance, the latter fact being 

 due probably to the gneissic rock resisting decomposition equally 

 with the trap, but evidence of its presence is to be found very fre- 

 quently. In the cut of the Pennsylvania Railroad southeast of Rad- 

 nor Station two systems of dykes were exposed, one a diorite in 

 narrow veins, dipping about 65° east-southeast, cutting an older 

 granite dipping 60° to 80° west-southwest. Much trap lies on the 

 surface over the ancient gneiss area, and there are numerous out- 

 crops in place — e. g., three-tenths of a mile northwest of Radnor 

 Station (diabase of a reddish tint) on Ithan creek, on the Radnor 

 and Chester road near the old Lancaster road, on Johnston's 

 quarry at Wayne (diabase), near Van Artsdalen's quarry in Bucks 

 county (norite)." 



Dr. Bascom identified as norite a rock found on the property of 

 Miss Martha M. Brown near Radnor Station. 



The Cambrian Sandstone. 



Prof. Rogers divided his primal series into three, based upon the 

 exposures in the Xorth Chester Valley Hill, of which the middle 

 member is by far the most uniform and characteristic: — 



1. A lower shale, or slate, the lower pi-imal; 



2. The middle, or sandstone proper; 



'* Final Report, p. 79. 



" Dr. J. F. Kemp, Trans. N. Y. Acad. Set., XII, p. 71. 




182 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [L900. 



3. All upper, sandy, micaceous, shaly or schistose rock, next 

 below the limestone. 



The sandstone formerly supposed to be the equivalent of the 

 Potsdam sandstone of New York is undisputed by all geologists 

 who have examined the region It is abundant and widespread. 

 Lithologically it is remarkably uniform. Its most usual aspect is 

 thus described by Prof. Rogers: " A thin-bedded yellowish -white, 

 very compact rock, presenting in its composition much imperfectly 

 developed feldspar,^' and showing a tendency to a rhombohedral 

 fracture ; . . . . other bands contain likewise many minute partings 

 of crystalline talc, and the surface of the more solid feldspathic 

 beds exhibit very frequently at these partings innumerable minute 

 crystalline specks of pure black schorl."*' 



To this may be added that the rock is often a soft sandstone, 

 while at times very compact and hard, indeed a quart zite, pre- 

 serving all the other of the above characters; ihat the tourmaline 

 crystals (of which, when Rogers wrote, schorl was the common 

 name) are not always minute, and that they are generally dis- 

 rupted. 



It should further be noted that at that time the varieties of mus- 

 covite of the damourite group were not separated from talc, so that 

 with our present light we should translate talc into damourite, 

 sericite or hydromica iu many cases in which Prof. Rogers uses it. 



In some portions the markings of Scolithus linearis are abun- 

 dant, particularly west of the Valley Forge Gap. This fossil, 

 though of little value otherwise, distinctly marks the rock as iu 

 the paleozoic column, while the unusually definite character of the 

 rock enables us to identify it readily when the markings are absent. 

 This uniform character is remarkable when we consider the numer- 

 ous outcrops far separated, not only on the strike line l)ut also on 

 the dip. The same rock is described l\v Dr. Williams as occur- 

 ring in Maryland.^* 



*^ Kaoliiiized ffldspar. 



59 First Gcol. Survey oj Pa., I, p. 155, quoted C*, p. 109. 



■"> In the Final Report of the Second Geol. Survey, p. 177, it is stated 

 "some of the beds show needles of hornblende and a little crystallized talc.*' 

 This I think is not the case. 



" " Quartzite, or quartz schist, . . . such a clearly marked type that it 

 serves at many other localities to fix a definite horizon. There is always 

 present apeifect foliation due to parallel layers of muscovite at varying dis- 

 tances from each other. In these foliation planes there is an abundant de 




1900,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



The lowest beds, best shown near Willow Grove, are of a cou- 

 glomerate chiefly of quartz pebbles, united by a siliceous cement. 

 The same rock seems to be poorly exposed westward of Valley 

 Forge. 



The Cambrian enters the State near Morrisville, flanking the 

 ancient gneiss on its southeast side, forming a prominent narrow 

 straight hill, in most of its course called (as is also the correspond- 

 ing outcrop on the northwesterly side of the ridge of ancient gneiss 

 further southwest) Edge Hill, also Rocky Hill. It is here sepa- 

 rated from the ancient gneiss by about a thousand feet, chiefly of 

 unctuous variegated clays, which resemble those of the iron ore 

 beds further southwest. On the Trenton Cut-off Railroad, where 

 it is well exposed, it dips N. 50° .W 70° to 80° toward the gneiss. 



Fi*om this point it continues to Huntingdon Valley, and is ex- 

 posed on the Neshaminy and in quarries. It seems to narrow 

 westwardly, and at the Penny pack it is not visible ; about one 

 mile west of the Pennypack a much overgrown quarry shows indi- 

 cations of it, and masses may be seen in walls in the vicinity; this 

 is immediately north of the limestone of Huntingdon Valley. 

 About four miles further west, it is well exposed in a quarry on 

 the Waverly road near the Limekiln pike, at Waverly Heights, 

 and here is separated from the sandstone northwest of the gneiss 

 by but half a mile; it dips S. 10° E. 70°, S. 20° E. + 70°; S. 

 25° E. 80°. It is almost identical in aspect with the northerly 

 sandstone, a little more micaceous, a little darker in color, some- 

 what harder, with cherty layers more abundant, and in this it 

 differs also from the outcrops in the same belt to the eastward. 

 This outcrop is about a mile in length, but is clearly exposed only 

 in this one quarry; it appears to strike into Edge Hill, the topo- 

 graphical continuation of the northerly sandstone hill, more fully 

 described hereafter.*' 



A similar rock, but still more micaceous, and with micsa schists 

 interstratified, appears nearly in the line of the strike, about two 



velopment of black tourmaline, whose crystals are always transversely 

 broken and their fragments more or less broken as if by stretching." — Geo. 

 H. Williams, Bui. Geol. So. of Am., Vol. II, p. 308. 



*- Prof. Lesley, Final Rejiort, I, p. 86, writes of it as forming a low ridge 

 running three miles from Waverly Heights to near Chestnut Hill, but I 

 have been unable to find it beyond the outcrop in the Waverly road about a 

 thousand feet west of the Limekiln pike. 




184 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



and a half miles to the southwest, on Paper Mill lane north of 

 the Bethlehem turnpike, dipping steeply S. 10° E., while the 

 ancient gneiss, poorly exposed 200 feet north of it, strikes S. 

 35° W. vertical. 



While probable, it is not certain that this outcrop is of the true 

 Cambrian sandstone. If it is, then the adjacen': and interstratified 

 mica schists must be of the same age. It may be a rock made 

 by the degradation of the Cambrian and be more recent. Com- 

 paring this outcrop with the Waverly Heights outcrop, and that 

 with the exposures near the Neshaminy, we find that the change 

 from Waverly Heights westward is not much if any greater than 

 from the Neshaminy to Waverly Heights. 



West of this Prof. Carvill Lewis identified it close to the ser- 

 pentine, southeast of the gneiss, northwest of La Fayette on the 

 Schuylkill. West of the Schuylkill, in the same line, occur sandy 

 mica schists with rhomboidal jointing, which may or may not 

 represent it. On the Roberts' road south of the Conestoga road, 

 and on the latter west of the Roberts' road (Radnor township) 

 close to the gneiss, a rock appears very closely resembling it; con- 

 taining, however, no tourmaline. It occurs in narrow beds in the 

 mica schists much as in Paper Mill road; a chert-like quartz 

 accompanies it. 



This is the most westerly point at which I have observed any 

 similar rock close to the ancient gneiss on its southeast side, but to 

 the southwest, in Chester county, are uumeroHs outcrops which 

 will be best considered after the more proirinent ones to the north- 

 eastward. 



The Cambrian Northwest of Buck Rtdge. 



This first appears, as has b>?en mentioned, a short distance east 

 of Willow Gi'ove, where the gneiss forks, and the sandstone 

 appears as the end of a synclinal. This is about ten miles north- 

 east of the Schuylkill. Here the rock is a coarse conglomerate of 

 bluish quartz pebbles in a siliceous paste, followed by the typical 

 rock. 



About a mile southwest of AVillow Grove, the synclinal of sand- 

 stone is in its turn overlain by a synclinal of limestone, the easterly 

 end of the limestone of the Chester-Montgomery valley, dividing 

 the sandstone into a northwesterly and southeasterly arm. The 




1900] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 185 



former is soon covered by the Red Rocks, but appears at intervals. 

 West of the Schuylkill it is very prominent, attaining a height of 

 -f 600 feet at Valley Forge, and thence westward forming the 

 North (Chester) Valley Hill. 



The rock is well exposed by Valley creek flowing from the Ches- 

 ter Valley through this high hill iuto the Schuylkill, though the 

 hill dies down to an insignificant elevation eastward Avithiu little 

 more than a mile. At this point, as described by Prof. Rogers, 

 the hill appears to be composed, as already stated, of three beds 

 of the Cambrian : (1) a sandy micaceous, shaly or schistose rock 

 (Upper Primal of Rogers' ) between the sandstone and the lime- 

 stone of Chester Valley; (II) the sandstone proper, and (III) a 

 shale or slate more argillitic (Rogers' Lower Primal) underlying 

 the sandstone, while underlying the argillitic shale is a conglom- 

 erate, poorly exposed, but exactly like that of Willow Grove. 



About four miles west of Valley Forge the sandstone appears to 

 end suddenly, on the east side of the gap through which a branch 

 of Pickering creek, rising on the northerly side of the Chester 

 Valley, flows northwardly and then eastwardly into the Schuylkill. 

 In this gap we find no sandstone, but a rock of very difierent char- 

 acter, probably that mentioned by Dr. Frazer in C^ p. 272 — "A 

 coarse-grained, heavy-bedded rock, called variously in my field 

 notes feldspar-porphyry, conglomerate, granite and heavy-bedded 

 gneiss" — which, from A'^alley Forge westward, appears to underlie 

 the sandstone with but httle, if any, intervening slaty or shaly rock. 

 This rock is well exposed in Williams' quarry on the Phoenix\'ille 

 Branch of the Pennsylvania Railroad, near Aldham Station. It 

 sometimes resembles a pegmatite, often a very feldspathic gneiss, 

 occasionally it is a hornblende or a mica schist or a micaceous 

 gneiss. 1 have termed it provisionally the Chester county gneiss. 

 North of it is a much harder gneiss, containing blue quartz and 

 closely resembling the ancient gneiss of Buck Ridge, probably the 

 continuation of the northerly arm at Willow Grove, before men- 

 tioned. 



Further west the upper of these becomes a true mica schist, as 

 on the road south of Cain Meeting-house, and still more markedly 

 north of the Pennsylvania Railroad west of Pomeroy, where the 



« Proc. Acad. Nat. Scl, 1894, p. 457. 




186 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



schist coutains in small quantity feldspar (probably microclin), 

 coarsely crystalline, tourmaline and garnet, and very closely resem- 

 bles the mica schists of Rogers' first group. At Pomeroy, just 

 north of this schist, are the great quarries in the sandstone whence 

 has been obtained much of the stone for the foundations of Broad 

 Street Station and other recent structures for the Pennsylvania 

 Railroad. These quarries are in the sandstone proper, dipping S. 

 35° E. 30° to 50°. 



On the map in C^ this upper schist and much of the true sand- 

 stone are colored the same as the gneissic areas on the northerly 

 side of the sandstone, and it is not shown further east than a mile 

 east of Pomeroy, but as extending westwardly, widening rapidly 

 to the Octorara."** 



On the West branch of the Brandywine the sandstone is met 

 about 200 feet from the railroad, Avhich runs nearly on the strike; 

 it dips S. 25° E. 55°, while on the railroad the schists dip S. 30° 

 E. 50°. About 600 feet further north a harder and less evenly 

 bedded sandstone, some of it quartzite, dips S. 25° E. 50°; two 

 miles north of this is a high bluif of the sandstone in massive beds 

 striking N. 70° E. nearly vertical, at the base of which the creek 

 flows nearly on the strike. On the right bank is the Chester 

 county gneiss. 



A half-mile west of the creek the Lancaster pike crosses the 

 railroad and rapidly rises on the slope of the hill ; here the schists 

 are again well exposed, as noted by Dr. Frazer,** but a careful 

 examination forced me to the conclusion that the apparent inclina- 

 tion of the rock visible close to the railroad is due wholly to creep, 

 as is very evident a short distance northwest where the probable 

 normal dip of S. 35° E. 70° shows, upwards, a northerly dip of 

 loose rock as is so often the case in this sandstone. 



Nearly four miles west of Coatesville we reach Pomeroy, and 

 just beyond it Buck Run. Here the exposures are excellent. 



** Of this, Dr. Frazer snys uuder the heading " West Cain " : " The Pots- 

 dam sandstone. . . . gradually leavi s the contact of the limestone below 

 the borders of this township, permitting au uneven wedge of the older crystal- 

 line rocks to intervene between it and the latter in Sadsbnry and Valley." 



C*, p. 256, and on p. 207 : '' . . . . from Octorara Creek hninch to and be- 

 yond Pomeroy. At no place within the distance dees the limestone touch 

 the quartzite or sandstone, though removed from it by a belt of varying 

 width, nowhere very broad except at the two points mentioned." 



« C*, p. 271. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 187 



The sandstone has been largely quarried on both banks of the Run 

 aud within 500 feet of the railroad, dipping quite uniformly about 

 S. 35° E. 50° in the four quarries. Included in the sandstone 

 are thin micaceous beds not unlike the schists on the south. On 

 the railroad, southeast of these quarries, and within a quarter of a 

 mile, the mica schists appear; here containing small segregations 

 (?) of Qjicrolin(?) and tourmaline, and resembling closely those 

 of Delaware county. One dip was S. 18° W. 75°, others steep S., 

 but thei'e is reason to suspect creep. "Within .25m. west, on a 

 private road, about 400 feet north of the railroad, the sandstone is 

 exposed, dipping S. 32° E 80°, succeeded to the southeast by a 

 more schistose variety and withiu fifty feet a mica schist, dipping 

 irregularly northwest, exposed only in a deep washed-out gutter. 

 The strike is about N. 60° E. The northwest dip is probably 

 due to creep. 



About two miles west of Pomeroy is Parkesburg, through the 

 easterly part of which flows a westerly branch of Buck Run. On 

 this, within .Im. of the railroad, is a quarry in the sandstone, 

 dipping S. 15° E, 40°, overlaid conformalily by mica schists. 

 A-bout 700 feet about S. 20° E. of this quarry is an exposure of 

 limestone on the south side of the Strasburg road. This road, 

 here running nearly Avest, forms the main street of Parkesburg, 

 but nearly opposite the railroad station it resumes its west-north- 

 west direction and ascends the hill. Near the foot the mica schists 

 appear poorly exposed, dipping northwest steeply but irregularly, 

 doubtless owing to creep. Following this, about 150 feet of the 

 road is filled ?vith the sandstone dipping S. 15° E. 70°, then sandy 

 mica schists appear with the sandstone for nearly half a mile, the 

 sandstone outcropping at frequent intervals, with a clifl on the 

 northwest side of the road near the summit S. 28° E. 00°. On 

 the summit are no exposures. One mile from Parkesburg the 

 limestone road crosses the Strasburg road. On the former the 

 sandstone is poorly but extensively exposed. West of this to the 

 Octorara I have seen no exposures of the sandstone, but fragments, 

 some very large, are quite common. Ou the old Valley road 

 northwest of Lenover sandy mica schists appear; no black gneiss 

 was seen. At the Octorara, however, we have a repetition of the 

 section near Goatesville and Pomeroy. 



The sandstone is particularly well exposed where the Octorara 




188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



flows southward through it. This gap and the adjacent one to the 

 northward through Copper Mine Ridge have been taken advan- 

 tage of by the Pennsylvania Railroad to pass by easy gradients 

 from the Chester to the Lancaster (Pequea) Valley. The rail- 

 road, turning from its nearly west to a northwest course along a 

 shelf quarried out of the precipitous left bank of the Octorara 

 exposes the rocks most clearly. To the southeastward, next to the 

 limestone, there is a somewhat plicated dark-colored mica schist 3. 

 30° E. 80°, perhaps 200 feet in breadth, then the typical sand- 

 stone S. 28° E. 72° about 300 feet, then sandstone fragments, 

 and then a bluff of the sandstone, about fifty feet high and a hun- 

 dred and fifty feet wide, dipping S. 28° E. TO".-*' 



The sandstone continues west of the Octorara as a narrow but 

 high and conspicuous hill, bounding the limestone valley on the 

 north; as in Chester county, its crest is nearly straight, S. 60°-70° 

 W., and for several miles almost level about 200 feet above the 

 Octorara or 660 feet above tide. The hill seems to be composed 

 almost wholly of the sandstone, the Chester county gneiss forming 

 the floor of the valley on the north and the hi Us further north to 

 Copper Mine Ridge. The rock is abundantly exposed, occa- 

 sionally, but not frequently, in such manner as to show the dip 

 beyond doubt. The bearing of the Valley road is almost coinci- 

 dent with the strike. About two miles west of the Octorara, just 

 west of the road to Steelville (Chester county), a dark mica schist 

 appears on the north side of the road with the sandstone with some 



•^ In Prof. Lesley's Final Report^ Vol. I, p. 177, this ridge is apparently 

 confused with the parallel ridge to the mrth, "Copper Mine Ridge." It is 

 there stated " In the North Valley Hill, the gaps of the East and West 

 Brandy wiue and at Gap Station show the beds to be about 100' thick." 

 Gap St:ition, however, is o\ the northerly side of Copper 3Iine Ridge, a 

 parallel northerly oat -rop of sandstone, separ.ited from the North Chester 

 Valley Hill by more than two miles of gneissoid rocks, and according to my 

 observatioas this separatioa continues far into Chester county, Copper 

 Mine Ridge ranging eastwardly to within a hundred yards of the We>t 

 branch of the Brandy wine near Wagonfown as a distinct narrow ridge of the 

 typical sandstone, evidently referred to in C, p. 262. 



It may also be observed tha" oa the map in C*, the yellow color, which is 

 stated on p. 160 to be " contined t ) the qnartzite and sandstone beds alone, 

 and does not include the underlying much weathered feldspar porphyries, 

 conglomerates, etc., which (following Prof. Rogers) he regards as part of the 

 Potsdam or primal formations No. 1,'' is broadened to four miles, viz.: from 

 Compassville to Parkesburg, thus connecting the sandstone of Copper Mine 

 Ridge with that of the North Valley Hill. I was unable to tind such con- 

 nection, for a broad belt of the " feldspar porphyries, etc.," intervenes, as 

 stated by Rogers, I, p. 84, et*. (qtioted C^, p. 163, etc.). 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 189 



interlaminated dark mica schist on the south, strike of road and 

 rotk N. 70° E. 



The further discussion of this ridge will be found in connection 

 with the limestone of this portion of the valley. 



North of the North Valley Hill, in the vicinity of the branches 

 of the Brandywine, are three other outcrops of the sandstone, as 

 noted by Prof. Rogers.''' 



The southernmost ranges a little north of east from west of the 

 Lancaster county line south of Compassville to a point within 

 . 2 m. northwest of Wagontown. It forms a low ridge conspicuous 

 north of Stony Hollow Schoolhouse, and seems to end in a very 

 narrow outcrop on the farm of Abraham Bubaker, just north of 

 a steatite outcrop. It appears to be the continuation of the sand- 

 stone of Copper Mine Ridge in Lancaster county, the southerly 

 boundary of the Pequea Valley limestone. 



The middle outcrop is much more prominent and is locally 

 known as the Baron Hill. It ranges in an east-northeast direction 

 from the Lancaster county line, or west of it to the East Branch 

 of the Brandywine, at Cornog's Station, In most of* its course it 

 is a high hill, with comparatively steep slopes, and throughout the 

 greater part of its course entirely in forest, thus making a promi- 

 nent feature of the landscape. North of Martin's Corner it is, by 

 barometer, 850 feet above tide, the valley south of it of ancient 

 gneiss being 750 feet and north of it 690 feet, limestone.^' 



The northernmost outcrop forms the Welsh Mountain, on the 

 summit of which is the Chester-Lancaster-Berks county line. It is 

 also the watershed between the Delaware and the Susquehanna, 

 with an elevation of 850 to 1,000 feet above ocean level. 



Returning now to Wiilow Grove, we may trace the southeasterly 

 arm of the sandstone synclinal southwestward. As far as the cross- 



*' I, 177, quoted C*, pp. 154, 155. 



*^ On tbe map, C*, the sand&tone area north of ^lartin's Corners is repre- 

 sented as two miles wide, extending of nearly that -width to the West 

 branch, there cut off by the ancient gneiss, Avith two outlying islands of this 

 sandstone to the eastward. With this my observations do not agree. North 

 of Martin's Corner it is not much over a quarter of a mile in. width. Along 

 the West branch it is conspicuously exposed between a point .5 m. 

 below Femdale Station and Biandamore Station, dipping S. 25^ E. 50° E. 

 Northeast of this it continues unbroken as a narrow, mostly wooded hill to 

 the East branch, near which it seems to teiminate in the ancient gneiss. 

 A road on or near the summit affords a series of very beautiful views 

 Brandywine Manor is on this hill. 




190 



PBOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1900. 



ing of the Northeast Pennsylvania Railroad the conglomerate con- 

 tinues with the typical standstone overlying it. From east of 

 Weldon to west of Edge Hill village the sandstone forms a promi- 

 nent hill, and probably the highest ground of the vicinity, known 

 as Edge Hill, giving name to many places in the neighborhood. 

 The North Pennsylvania Railroad levels are Chelten Hills 190, 

 Junction Northeast Pennsylvania Railroad 254 (259 ?), Edge 

 Hill 293, Camp Hill (the northerly ancient gneiss) 178. The 

 levels of the Northeast Pennsylvania Railroad crossing the sand- 

 stone about a mile north of the North Pennsylvania Railroad are 

 Junction North Pennsylvania Railroad 259 (254?), Summit 342, 

 Willow Grove 259. ^» 



Fig. 1. — Ciinibiiau Sauilstuue, Edge Hill, Pa. 



At Edge Hill village, where the sandstone is crossed by the North 

 Pennsylvania Ruih-oad and the Limekiln turnpike, it is well 

 exposed in a cut about thirty feet deep, and in quarries which show 

 very plainly the * ' creep ' ' to which the upper part of this rock 



*' These (mean ocean) levels are takea from Tables GO an;l Crl in Stcond 

 6eol. Surcci/ of Pa., Levels above Tide N. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 191 



has been subjected, shown in fig. 1, a photograph taken by ^Ir. 

 John Coates Brown. Its strike is about X. 55° E. ; it is nearly 

 vertical, probably 85° S. E. , and is very regular. In a quarry 

 close to the Xortheast Pennsylvania Eailroad its dip is S. 30° 

 E. 65°, hence toward the ancient gneiss; these dips are well below 

 all possible creep. 



It is here that the sandstone southeast of the ancient gneiss 

 appears a half-mile to the southeastward, with the gneiss interven- 

 ing, but not prominently. It is not improbable that the two areas 

 were once connected at this point over the gneiss, if indeed they 

 were not over a much more extended area. 



West of this, Edge Hill, as has been stated, continues topo- 

 graphically to the Wissahickon, but the geological formations strike 

 through it westwardly, that is strike about S. 60° ^Y. , while the 

 bearing of the hill itself is about S. 40° AY., so that soon the 

 Edge HiU sandstone forms a separate, sHghtly divergent liill, 

 known as Barren Hill. It crosses the Wissahickon on the place 

 of Mr. John T. Morris, where it is well exposed. It continues 

 probably from Barren Hill to the Schuylkill, though not well 

 exposed except close to the latter at Spring Mill, where it appears 

 to dip S, 45°, though the exposure is not entirely satisfactory. 

 There is limestone here == or about 500 feet northwest of it. 



So far no slates or schists are visible in its vicinity, though some 

 beds of the sandstone are very micaceous and rather quartz schist 

 than sandstone. The strike from the Spring Mill outcrop carries 

 it into that portion of the Schuylkill which flows about N. 70° E. 

 along the base of the ancient gneiss from Conshohocken to Spring 

 Mill. On the westerly bank the flanking gneiss, Rogers' 

 Altered Primal, and the limestone are well exposed, but the 

 sandstone is not distinctly visible, and its place appears to be 

 taken by mica schists, some garnetiferous, not unlike those between 

 the Cambrian and the limestone on the north side of the Chester 

 Valley, the Upper Primal of Rogers already described. These 

 are on the south side of the narrow valley between the gneiss on 

 the southeast and the hydiomica schists on the northwest, a narrow 

 but typical straight limestone valley known as Cream Valley. As 

 a prominent valley it is five miles in length, ending at Wayne, 

 but with two drainage systems; the upper three and a half miles 

 draining by Gulf creek through the Gulf (a gap in the northerly 




192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



hill), the lower mile and a half directly to the Schuylkill.-" The 

 divide is low and from the high hills on each side hardly 

 noticeable. While the prominence of the valley ceases at Wayne, 

 a depression follows the line of strike to the West Branch of the 

 Brandywine and beyond, as will be more fully described when 

 considering the hmestones. 



On the northerly slope of the ancient gneiss the sandstone appears 

 at intervals. In lhe Final Report (I, p. 174) this is discredited, 

 but I have given" my reasons for reiterating these occurrences as 

 they seem to expjain the structure without the need of a fault. I 

 may repeat briefly that the sandstone may be observed of typical 

 character and in the same i-elation to limestone at distances from 

 the Schuylkill of one and a half, two, two and a half, two and 

 three-quarters, three and a half and four miles. It appears to be 

 interstratified in mica schists, but all the exposures are poor. It is 

 certainly very narrow. 



West of Wayne the schists continue, l)ut the typical rock is 

 absent or concealed. The latter is not improbable, as the line of 

 strike is in comparatively low ground with few outcrops between 

 the gneiss and the hydromica; these outcrops being of mica schist, 

 serpentine, or diabase trap. In western Chester county, however, 

 it again appears near the Poorhouse quarry, and still more exten- 

 sively near Doe run, as mentioned in the discussion of the lime- 

 stones of that region. 



The locality near the Poorhouse quarry limestone is Hayes' whet- 

 stone quarry, a mile nearly west of the limestone. It is of the 

 typical rock, overlaid by sandy mica schists and underlaid imme- 

 diately by the same with more compact and heavy-bedded schists 

 to the northwest. It dips S. 30° to 50° E. 20° to 25°. It is 

 in Newliu township, close to the West Bradford line. Thirty or 

 forty years ago there was a considerable output of whetstones 

 from this quarry, as I am informed, by ^Ir. NVilliam M. Hayes, 

 owner of the Hayes farm, who was then engaged in their man- 

 ufacture." 



^ F. Bascoiu, Ph.D., Am. Geologist, Jan. "97. XIX, No. 1. p. o(i. 



" Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., December, 1392, p. 445. 



^^ In C*, p. 314, this quarry seems to have been confused with a quarry of 

 dark-green chlorite schist used in the neighborhood for fla^jstone. The 

 latter quarry, known as Fulton's, is on the Speakman farm, about a mile 

 west ot the Hayes quarry. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 193 



Southwest of the Poorhouse quarry is a series of limestone quar- 

 ries (Embreeville, Pierce, Edwards, Guest, Doe run), but there 

 are no exposures of the sandstone until the Guest quarry is 

 reached. West of it and east of Doe run it is found abun- 

 dantly. A detailed description will be found in the discussion of 

 the limestones. 



Southeast of the ancient gneiss ridge and of the outcrops just 

 described, which seem to belong to the series northwest of it, the 

 gneiss itself ending near Northbrook and west of Chester creek, 

 are several outcrops of the sandstone accompanied hj limestone, 

 both having been quarried, the limestone very extensively and for 

 at least a half a century. In view of this well-known fact, it is 

 strange to find the contrary stated in the Final Report of the 

 Second Survey. ^^ 



Of these outcrops, the easternmost is in Thornbury township; 

 Chester county, one mile north-northwest of the Delaware county 

 line, where the typical rock, interstratified in schists, appears on 

 the road next northwest of the Wilmington road, half a mile south 

 of the Street road, on the farm of John W^yeth. The rock is in 

 place, but the exposure poor. There is an outcrop of limestone 

 about three miles south of this, Bullock's quarry in Birmingham 

 township, Delaware county, but the closely adjacent rocks are not 

 visible. 



About a mile southwest of this it is exposed on the Wilmington 

 road, dipping about southeast 30°, with mica schists apparently 

 conformable both above and below it. A half-mile southwest it is 

 exposed in a quarry about three-quarters of a mile north-north- 

 west of Dilworthtown. The dip is N. 35° W. 80° ; nothing but 

 the sandstone is visible. Half a mile nearly south from this 

 quarry, many loose masses are visible in the road which leads to 

 West Chester, next southwest of the Wilmington road, where the 

 road from Dilworthtown to Birmingham Meeting-house crosses it. 

 About three-quarters of a mile nearly west of the quarry just men- 

 tioned and less than a half-mile northeast of Birmingham Meeting- 



K " There is no sandstone, no limestone to De found in the Atlantic coast 

 country southeast of the Buck Ridge gneiss, except just at its southern edge. 

 The country between it and the Delaware river is occupied by a great series 

 of azoic rocks, . . . among which not a single stratum of sandstone or lime- 

 stone can be found." Second Geol. Survey of Pa., Pinal Report, I, p. 86. 

 13 




194 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



house is limestone exposed in a quarry and dipping S. 40* E. 

 50°. No other rock appears in place, but thousands of schist 

 fragments lie to the southeastward of the limestone; a quarter of 

 a mile south, schists dip S. 30° E. 30°. 



Along the Brandywine the rocks are Avell exposed ; the limestone 

 is visible in Harvey's quarry, at Brinton's Bridge, about a mile 

 above Chadd's Ford, and the sandstone ought to be visible, but it 

 is not. Bat under the limestone of Huey's quarry, about three- 

 quarters of a mile east-northeast of Brinton's Bridge, there is 

 exposed a quartz schist dipping N. 60° E. 20° under the lime- 

 stone, and further westward the sandstone is exposed abundantly 

 close to the Red Lion Hotel in East Marlborough township and 

 thence westward and two miles south in Kenuett township, east, 

 north and west of Kennett Square. 



If the outcrops mentioned be plotted, it seems clear that they 

 cannot be ranged in one or two synclinals, unless very undulating. 

 It seems equally certain that no succession of anticlinals can be 

 made out of the' Brandywine section. The country, except along 

 the large streams, is covered with mica schist and gneiss fragments, 

 with occasional outcrops of the same rock in place with pyroxenite 

 and gabbro. The peculiar sandstone, where it occurs, is of typi- 

 cal character, the adjacent schists both above and below the sand- 

 stone closely resembling Rogers' Upper Primal of the North Valley 

 Hill, and there seems no marked distinction between those above 

 and below. 



It may be briefly stated that in Chester county, south of the 

 Chester Valley, there are several outcrops of the typical rock. So 

 far as can be observed, all dips are southeast under southeast 

 dipping limestone, ^vith possibly one exception to be hereafter 

 noted (Taylor's quarry). 



1. One mile west of the limestone of the Poorhouse quarry, 

 dipping S. 80° E. 25°, with schists dipping about the same above 

 and below (Hayes' whetstone quarry, already mentioned), the 

 limestone dipping S. 40° E. 5° to 25°. 



2. AVest of Logan's quarry, west of Unionville, dipping pi'ob- 

 ably S. 75° E. 30°, with schists S. 55° E. 70° above and S. 55° 

 E. 55° belows the limestone about S. 40° E. 50°, with garnetifer- 

 ous schists S. 30° E. 45° overlying. 



3. Northwest of Eli S. Bailey's quarry aud j^outhwest of 




1900. J >'ATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 195 



Logan's quarry are two well-exposed outcrops about 150 feet apart, 

 with mica schists above, between and below, all dipping about S. 

 40° E. 30°. 



4. A half-mile northwest of the Guest quarry, "West Marlbor- 

 ough, dipping southeast probably 45° and less, the limestone dip- 

 ping gently southeast with sandy mica sch'st between, also prob- 

 ably the same bed, . 2 miles west of the quarry. 



5. Two hundred feet west of the Enos Bernard quarry south of 

 Doe Run village, dip not visible, the limestone dipping either 30° 

 or 80° nearly west; also about .2 miles east of the Enos Bernard 

 quarry; fragments only visible. 



A little over a mile south-southwest of the Enos Bernard quarry 

 and northeast of Marlborough II all Schoolhouse sink-holes indi- 

 cate underlying limestone, while in the east and west road close 

 sandstone is shown by numerous loose masses. 



6. The most important belt stretches from east of the Red Lion 

 through London Grove village to west of Chatham, bordering on 

 the north the Street road limestone outcrops. Xear the Red 

 Lion it dips S. 25° E. 15° to 50°, mica schists imderlying. 

 West of Taggart's cross-roads S. 5° E. 15° to 20° toward the 

 limestone. 



At London Grove it is well exposed in a quarry .3 miles south- 

 west of the meeting-house, S. 35° E. 30°, with sandy mica schist 

 overlying and a harder schist underlying. 



7. South of Leivis Bernard's quarry it is poorly exposed at the 

 northern foot of the hill between Bernard's and Story's quarry. 



8. Southeast of Story's quarry it is clearly exposed in a quarry 

 about .2 miles east of West Grove Meeting-house, overlying miica 

 schist and dipping S. 50° E. 20° under the Hmestone of the Avon- 

 dale Lime and Stone (formerly A. G. Hughes & Co.'s) quarries, 

 northwest of Avondale, in which the limestone dips S. 40° E. 20° 

 and less, with mica schists overlying. 



9. Xorth and -west of Kennett Square and also east of it, bor- 

 dering the Kennett limestone on the north. 



Reviewing these sandstone outcrops in western Chester countv, 

 and taking a section line about S. 15° E. from Houeybrook 

 township to London Britain township, we find the following suc- 

 cession : 




196 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1900. 



North 

 1. 



2. 

 3. 



7. 



9. 



10. 



11. 

 12. 



Red sandstone and trap, 

 Limestone, 

 Sandstone, 



Ancient gneiss and igne- 

 ous rocks, 

 Limestone, 



Sandstone, 



Ancient gneiss (gabbro?), 



Sandstone, 



Chester county gneiss, 



Ancient gneiss, 



Chester county gneiss. 



Sandstone. 



Mica schist. 



Limestone, 



Hydromica schist. 



Mica schist, 



Sandstone, 



Mica schist. 



Limestone, 



Mica schist, 



Sandstone, 



^[ica schist. 



Limestone, 



Mica schist. 



Sandstone, 



Mica schist. 



Limestone, 



Sandstone (?), 



Mica schist. 



Limestone, 



Sandstone, 



Limestone, 



Mica schist and gneis?. 



Sandstone, 



Limestone, 



r Limestone, 

 ( ^Nlica schists. 

 ( Limestone, 

 I jMica schists. 



Turkey Hill, Forest Hill. 

 Churchtown, Lancaster county. 

 Welsh ]\Iountain. 

 Southern part of Honeybrook 



township. 

 Southern part of Honeybrook 



township. 

 Baron Ridge. 

 South of Martin's Corner. 

 North of Wagontown. 

 Wagontown and south. 

 Siousca Station. 



North Chester Valley Hill. 



Cain ]Meeting-house. 



Chester Valley. 



South Valley Hill. 



South of Modeua. 



Southeast of Doe Run village. 



Not over 500 feet wide. 



Guest quarry. 



Not over a mile wide. 



Northwest of Logan's and 



Bailey's quarries. 

 Not over 500 feet wide. 

 Logan's and Bailey's quarries. 

 About a mile \vide. 

 London Grove. 



Street road line. 



South of Bernard's. 



South of Bernard's. 



Story's quarry. 



Road Avondale to West Grove. 



Hughes quarries. 



In same valley north of lime- 

 stone to the eastward. 



Watson & Jones' quarry, Avon- 

 dale. 



Nevin's quarries. 



Eastburn Quarries. 



(The brackets connect those outcrops which appear related. ) 




1900.] NATURAL SCIEXCE9 OF PHILADELPHIA. 197 



It will be seen by this table that we have eight certain lines of 

 outcrops of the sandstone, with two uncertain and eleven of lime- 

 stone. 



Xorth of the Chester Valley, the limestone is close to and north 

 of the sandstone, while in the valley and south of it the limestone 

 is usually close to and south of the sandstone. Among the whole, in 

 this section, there is not one from which we can with certainty infer 

 an anticlinal or synclinal structure, except perhaps in the lime- 

 stone of the Nevins' quarries and in the easterly part of the Doe 

 Bun Valley. If the first is synclinal, the northerly sandstone leg 

 is concealed by the Red sandstone. At the second, rocks appar- 

 ently identical with those elsewhere referred to the ancient gneiss 

 lie closely adjacent to the limestone on the north, and with some 

 undoubtedly igneous rocks separate it for at least two miles from 

 the northerly Cambrian sandstone, while the southerly sandstone 

 forms a high hill and is the nearest visible rock, perhaps 500 feet 

 being concealed. South of this sandstone hill is again the ancient 

 gneiss, including possibly some areas of the Chester county gneiss, 

 extending about two miles to the Wagontown -Copper Mine Ridge 

 sandstone hill, followed by about two miles of the Chester county 

 gneiss, with possibly some areas of ^ancient gneiss, extending to the 

 North Valley Hill. The sandstone in this hill was believed by 

 Prof. Rogers" to be not over a hundred feet in thickness, and its 

 apparent width to be due to compressed anticlinals and synclinals, 

 but I think the evidence of these inconclusive. 



The sandstone, however, dips under the limestone, a thin stra- 

 tum of mica schist intervening from Cain Meeting-house west- 

 ward, and does not rise on the southerly side of the Chester 

 Valley, as it does on the northwest. There is, however, nearly 

 soath of the King of Prussia, and thence westward for a mile or 

 two and north of Paoli, a narrow outcrop of sandstone with iron 

 ores. The best exposure was on the Trenton Cut-ofF Raih'oad, 

 north of Paoli." 



Prof. Rogers writes of this as occurring also east of Downing- 

 town, and further says :" ' ' In the vicinity of Coatesville and west 

 of it this weU- marked rock .... projects conspicuously in 



»'* I, 171, quoted C*, pp. 147-148. 



^^ Proc. Acad. Nat. ScL, 1891, p. 119. 



" First Geol. Survey of Fa.. I, p. 166. 




198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



rugged outcroiis at the entrance of the numerous ravines and gorges, 

 thirty or forty feet thick. ' ' 



I have tried in vain to find these outcrops, not only by personal 

 examination, but also by inquiry of observing residents, who have 

 assured me that there is no sandstone visible in that vicinity on 

 the north slope of the South Valley Hill. 



This sandstone, while at the locality near Paoli resembling that 

 of the North Valley Hill, is so very limited in area that the prol)- 

 abilities are that it is a more recent rock overlying the limestone. 

 It lacks the characteristic tourmaline crystals. 



South of the limestone is a mile of the hydromica schists, fol- 

 lowed by three miles or more of mica schists, many of them heavy- 

 bedded and hard, followed by the sandstone, and then softer schists 

 and limestones, the dips in the hydromica being steep to the south 

 in its northerly part, mostly vertical in its middle and southerly 

 portions, and the mica schist and almost all other rocks fi'om it 

 southward dipping toward the southeast with angles rarely above 

 35°. It is true, however, that at this limestone outcrop feldspar 

 and hornblende gneisses appear close on its northerly side further 

 eastward, and that still further eastward the sandstone appears on 

 its southerly side.^" 



Still going southward, and passing a region almost without out- 

 crops but with a soil suggesting the schists and containing schist 

 fragments, we find outcrops of the sandstone, followed by a narrow 

 stratum (300 feet to 500 feet) of mica schist, and then the lime- 

 stone of Logan's and Bailey's quarries South of tliis, mica 

 schists, at times garnetiferous, extend for a mile, followed by the 

 extensive outcrops of the sandstone at and near London Grove, 

 overlying which are mica schists, and over them the limestone of 

 the Street road line. At one locality south of and near Bernard's 

 limestone a small outcrop of sandstone appears, but the exposure 

 is so poor that not much reliance can be placed upon it. South of 

 it is a hill of mica schists and about a mile south of Bernard's 

 the limestone of Story's quarry, south of which are very clear 

 outcrops of the sandstone, followed by the limestone of the Avon- 



*' About three quarters of a mile south of the Embreeville outcrop of this 

 belt is a stratum of white quartzite with tourmaline shown in loose masses 

 only, bnt in quantity. "While unlike the sandstone this may possibly rep- 

 resent it and make the structure svnclinal. 




1900.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 199 



dale Lime & Stone Co. , which dips very gently south and is over- 

 )aid by garnetiferous mica schist. This is followed by the lime- 

 stone of the Watson & Jones quarry, Avondale, almost certainly of 

 the Kennett series, and if so, further east undoubtedly underlaid 

 by the sandstone well exposed. 



The " Potsdam " is stated by both Dr. Frazer" and Prof. Ches- 

 ter^^ to underlie the limestone of extreme southern Chester county 

 and northwestern New Castle county, Del. I was unable to find 

 any exposure of sandstone either north or south of Xevins' 

 quarry. The limestone of this quarry being clearly anticlinal in 

 structure,^" the sandstone, if it occurs to the southeast, can hardly 

 underlie the limestone. 



In the schists of Rogers' first and second groups are occasion- 

 ally and abundantly sandy schists which have much the aspect of 

 these schists associated with the type rock, but the latter rock itself 

 is absent. The outcrops in Thornbury, Birmingham, near Doe 

 Run, in London Britain and in East Mai-lborough show conclu- 

 sively that the type rock is underlaid and overlaid by mica schists 

 not infrequently garnetiferous. There seems, therefore, no reason 

 to doubt the conclusion of Prof. Rogers and of Dr. Frazer, that 

 these schists belong in the paleozoic column, as certainly do those 

 north of Pomeroy and Parkesburg. 



The argument in Cream Valley is not less conclusive. Here we 

 have east and west of the Schuylkill a succession of rocks uni- 

 form, except that a mica schist in the west takes in part the place 

 of the typical sandstone two miles to the eastward. Besides this, 

 we have in this very schist further west a chert-like quartz and the 

 typical sandstone at several localities and in abundance, associated 

 as usual with limestone. It is reasonable, therefore, to believe 

 that the mica schists of Cream Valley are likewise Cambrian. 

 These schists we can follow wdth constant outcrops in a narrow 

 line to a point near West Chester, where they widen rapidly and 

 again show limestone. Further west they still widen, the lime- 

 stone becomes more frequently exposed and again we find among 

 them the typical sandstone. But here apparently the same 

 schists may be traced southward without a break, until they unite 



" CS 328. 



»» Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1884, p. 239. 

 «» C*, 327. 




200 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



with those of East Marlborough, Kennett, etc., which is another 

 coufirmation. That there are repetitions, in spite of the uniform 

 southeasterly dip, is most probable, but the data are too meagre to 

 define Ihem. 



Again, the mica schists of the Huntingdon Valley must be of 

 Cambrian age or more recent. They very closely resemble those 

 of Cream Valley. But if all these schists are of Cambrian age, 

 why should greater antiquity be claimed for the very similar rocks 

 of the Philadelphia newer schists and gneisses ? 



Along the north slope of the North Valley Hill, at several local- 

 ities, is a very compact sandstone which I have not seen in place, 

 though often local outcrops show a similar rock. This particular 

 rock is more quartzite than a sandstone, weathers of a light yellow 

 color and not infrequently shows white-ribbon-like markings. 

 These are curved, branched, swell out and contract, and seem to 

 indicate an organic origin. 



Limestone. 



In discussing the limestone outcrops in this region it will be con- 

 venient to divide them into groups, ranging along west-southwest 

 lines, based upon their geographical position, following the usual 

 strike of the rocks: 



1. That of Van Artsdalen's quarry, Bucks county. 



2. Those of the great Chester-^NIontgomery (Plymouth) Valley. 



3. Those of Edge Hill, Flourtown, Spring Mill, West Consho- 

 hocken. Cream Valley, Cope's quarry northwest of West Ches- 

 ter, those of the valley stretching southwestward from the East 

 branch of the Brandy wine above Copesville to Embreeville, and 

 of the Guest quarry. 



4. Those of the Doe Run Valley. 



5. That of the Huntingdon Valley southeast of the ancient 

 gneiss. 



6. Those of Pocopsin township, Logan's quarry and Elisha Bai- 

 ley's quarry, in Chester county. 



7. Those in West Thornbury, Birmingham and northeastern 

 Pennsbury township, Chester county, and Birmingham, Delaware 

 county, and westwardly much more largely exposed to the south 

 of the Street road westward of the Red Lion Hotel, toward West 

 Grove. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 201 



8. Those in the valley through which the Baltimore Central 

 Railroad runs; that is, in central Pennsbury, Kennett, northern 

 New Garden and London Grove townships, Chester county. 



9. The small areas on the southerly line of New Garden and 

 London Britain townships, Chester county, and those of New 

 Castle county, Del. 



10. Several small outcrops in northern Chester county. 



The first, that of Van Artsdalen's quarry in Southampton town- 

 ship, Bucks county, is a small isolated outcrop in the ancient 

 gneiss of a highly crystalline limestone much mixed with other 

 minerals, of which the vai'iety made this locality famous, but, like 

 many others, the quarry has not been wrought for years. It ap- 

 pears to be clearly within the ancient gneiss and to have no rela- 

 tion to any other outcrop, no other limestone having been exposed 

 in any part of the fifty lineal miles of this gneiss exposed in this 

 region. Near by is a dyke of norite. Prof. Kemp suggests that 

 it may be an included piece of limestone caught up in a flow of 

 igneous rock." It is much folded and contains considerable graph- 

 ite ; the other minerals most prominent ai*e pyroxene and wernerite. 



II, Limestone of the Chester County. 



The second is by far the most important, and has been the object 

 of the most study. The valley underlaid by the limestone ex- 

 tends unbroken from WiUow Grove on the northeast into Lancaster 

 county on the southwest, where, according to the observations of 

 Dr. Frazer,'^ it joins the great outcrop of the Lancaster and 

 Pequea Valleys. 



In Montgomery county its length is about fifteen miles, in Ches- 

 ter thirty and in Lancaster ten, a total of fifty-five miles. In 

 width it varies greatly and suddenly, the greatest being about two 

 miles and the least a quarter of a mile. It is well exposed in 

 numerous outcrops, and has been extensively quarried. It dips 

 with much uniformity steeply to the southeast, and, while local 

 deviations are common, no systematic undulations appear. Com- 

 pressed anticlinals have been exposed — e. g., in the cut of the 

 Schuylkill Valley Railroad below Potts' Landing, and in that of 



®^ J. F. Kemp, Trans, of the JY. Y. Academy of Natural Sciences, Vol. 

 XII, p. 77. 



62 CCC, pp. 75, 76. 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



the branch of the Pennsylvania Raikoad from Chestnut Hill to the 

 Trenton Cut-off near Camp Hill. Of these the former is instructive. 

 The limestone here formed a high bluff, the base of which was the 

 left bank of the Schuylkill river. In a bench cut into the lime- 

 stone the Norristown Railroad Avas located, and there was exposed 

 a series of strata dipping quite uniformly to the southeast. More 

 recently, the Schuylkill Valley Railroad, running parallel with the 

 former, was forced to quarry more deeply into the hill, when it 

 appeared that some of the apparently parallel strata formed op- 

 posing legs of an anticlinal. It seems to be admitted that this 

 structure is common, though not usually apparent, and that the 

 limestone is not nearly so thick as would be inferred from its gen- 

 eral width. 



West of the Schuylkill river this valley is remarkably straight, 

 especially on its south side. Its streams rarely flow for any great 

 distance along the axis of the valley, indicating that the present 

 courses of the creeks and rivers were established long before 

 erosion gave us the present contour lines. This apparently erratic 

 flow is emphasized by the present contour, for it is possible for an 

 observer to stand at points overlooking the valley, with its high 

 and well-mai'ked bounding hills, and see seven streams leave the 

 floor of the valley and flow, toward the east-northward, toward 

 the west-southward, through the apparently impenetrable walls^ 

 forming gorges with precipitous sides, rising at times thi'ee or four 

 hundred feet above the valley. 



In its northeast part there seems to be no question about the 

 relation of the limestone and the adjacent rocks, for we have 

 apparently without doubt a basin of the pecuhar sandstone, the 

 Primal of Prof. Rogers, the Potsdam and No. 2 of the Second Sur- 

 vey, now generally beUeved to be Cambrian, underlying and sur- 

 rounding the limestone. This sandstone, at times concealed by the 

 newer Red Rocks on the northerly side, seems clearly to bound it 

 on the north to the westerly terminatiou of the valley at Quarrv- 

 ville, Lancaster county, forming usually a high hill." 



In the portion of the valley east of the Schuylkill river, known 

 as the Plymouth Valley, the limestone has been and is largely 



*•'' As more fully referred to ia the discussion of sandstone, Dr. Frazer be- 

 lieves an area of older rocks to intervene between the sandstone and the lime- 

 stone from Pomeroy westward. C*, pp. 256-26T. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIEXCE3 OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



quarried, formerly as a flux for irou furnaces, as well as for build- 

 ing uses. The iron furnaces having been abandoned, it is now 

 quarried for the manufacture of lime, for railroad ballast and road 

 material, and for concrete, except a comparatively small amount 

 used as building stone. Xear the Schuylkill, on both sides of the 

 stream, a slaty limestone, containing much quartz, mica and 

 graphite, has been largely quarried for foundation stone. For 

 large buildings in Philadelphia it has been used probably more 

 than any other stone, as it can be obtained in masses of any desir- 

 able size, with easy and smooth fracture, or more properly cleavage, 

 in one direction. At the Schuylkill the limestone is probably as 

 wide as at any point, extending from Swedesburg to the northerly 

 part of Conshohocken, a distance of about two miles, the river 

 flowing nearly on the line of dip. The northerly boundary is the 

 Ked sandstone, quarried in and about Norristown. At Norristown 

 the Cambrian sandstone is reported to appear in limited areas, but I 

 have not been able to find the typical rock at the Schuylkill.** West 

 of the Schuylkill, however, are two prominent hills, one near the 

 river northwest of the Trenton Cut-off Railroad, the other two 

 miles to the westward, northwest of Henderson Station. Exposures 

 in these hills are poor, but abundant fragments and one or two 

 quarries indicate on the side toward the limestone a fine-grained 

 mica schist, and next northwestward a conglomerate very closely 

 resembling that underlying the sandstone to the northeastward. In 

 one quarry near Bridgeport the dip is S. 10^ E. 50°; in one near 

 the northwest end of the hill nearest the river S. 50°. 



The limestone on the river bank dips S. 10= to 20° E. 30° to 

 60°. It seems probable, therefore, that this is the basal con- 

 glomerate of the Cambrian, the typical sandstone being absent or 

 concealed. 



The southerly boundary is a prominent hill of hydromica schist. 

 About a mile west of the Schuylkill the valley is suddenly and 

 greatly narrowed by the widening of the hydromica schist hill 

 from about four-tenths of a mile at the river to over a mile and a 

 half two miles to the westward. 



A little over two miles west of the river is Henderson Station, 

 geologically important from the discovery by Mr. Martin B. 



" C«, p. 74. 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Stubbs in Shainline's quarry of fossils in orbicular quartzite, iden- 

 tified by Prof. Heilprin as Lituites orthoceras (^Gyroceras), Madurea 

 or Pleurotomaria, and Murclmonia, of ^vhich specimens are in the 

 collection of the Academy. Unfortunately, all the masses found 

 were loose in the decomposed limestone soil overlying the common 

 limestone. A rock very closely resembling that in which the 

 fossils were found occurs in great abundance in the railroad cut 

 west of Henderson Station, here also probably not in place, and 

 almost certainly in place about a mile to the eastward, where the 

 highway was shifted northward at the time of the construction of 

 the Trenton Cut-off Railroad. At this locality, notwithstanding 

 the rock was largely exposed, no trace of fossils has been discov- 

 ered. A similar rock occurs eleven miles further west in small 

 quantities and in loose masses only, near Sidley Station on the 

 Phoenix ville Branch of the Pennsylvania Railroad, but no fossils 

 have been found. It occurs also on the west side of and near the 

 Schuylkill below Norristown, and also in loose masses but very 

 abundantly about a mile and a half northeast of Norristown, at 

 which place some of the quartz cr}'stals were arranged in cylindri- 

 cal forms, giving rise to a newspaper paragraph that the rock con- 

 tained fossil Indian corn. This rock resembles the calciferous 

 sandrock of New York. 



The hill near Henderson Station in which this rock occurs is 

 skirted on the north by the Swedesford road, while the Trenton Cut- 

 off Railroad and the Chester Valley Railroad cut its southerly base. 

 The northernmost rock, shown in fragments only, is a conglomerate 

 of blue quartz resembling the basal member of the Cambrian. 

 Next, also only in fragments, is a schist or slate like that exposed 

 in the Valley Foi-ge gap. This slate seems to form the summit of 

 the hill. The southerly portion is of clay and gravel, chiefly of 

 quartz pebbles, but with some pebbles which apparently were of 

 gneiss, now much decomposed. In this, as far as can be seen, 

 occurs the orbicular quartzite, of which the masses appear not to 

 be rounded. In the bottom of the cut a large mass of limestone 

 appears. The hill near the Schuylkill presents much the same 

 features. Near the King of Prussia the area of Red sandstone 

 which overlies the limestone near the Schuylkill, from east of 

 Norristown northwestward, suddenly narrows, exposing the lime- 

 stone floor nearly or quite to the river at Port Kennedy, where 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



the unconformable contact of the two is well shown. Here the 

 high North Valley Hill of Cambrian sandstone begins, and in a 

 distance of about a mile rises to a height of over 500 feet, cut, 

 however, a mile beyond by the deep gorge of Valley Creek at 

 Valley Forge. From the longitude of Valley Forge to that of 

 Frazer, about seven miles, the valley continues with a width of 

 about two miles wholly of hmestone, except small areas of a 

 hydromica schist apparently interbedded. At this point the North 

 Hill, ranging from 550 feet to 670 feet above tide, with but a 

 slight gap at Diamond Rock, suddenly ends, and a north-and-south 

 valley intervenes with an elevation of about 380 feet. Here, on the 

 north edge of the valley (near Devault Station on the Phoenixville 

 Branch of the Pennsylvania Railroad), a branch of Pickering creek 

 rises and flows northward and eastward into the Schuylkill, while 

 close by is the source of the Valley creek, which flows southeastward, 

 then eastward, then north through the Valley Forge gap into the 

 Schuylkill. In this valley of the branch of the Pickering creek 

 there is not a trace of the sandstone, though but a half-mile to the 

 eastward or westward it is prominent. In the Chester valley in this 

 vicinity are large limestone quarries, wrought chiefly for building 

 lime, the largest being those at Cedar Hollow, at the foot of the 

 hill, about .75 mile southeast of Devault Station, and those of 

 the Knickerbocker Co., about 1.75 miles southwest. From this 

 point westward the valley is narrower, averaging about a mile in 

 width, though the rock margins are rarely to be seen, being deeply 

 buried, especially on the north side, so that while the valley is 

 well defined, it is but a supposition that the base of the hill is the 

 border of the limestone. 



Opposite Glen Loch is a watershed across the valley and the 

 highest ground in it, by barometer about 380 feet above tide, from 

 Frazer as datum 490 feet. Bacton is 365 feet, Sidley 370, 

 Devault 375, Aldham (descent into Pickering Valley) 305. This 

 watershed and the gap just below make an easy gradient for the 

 Phoenixville Branch of the Pennsylvania Railroad. 



In the vicinity of Glen Loch large marble quarries were formerly 

 wrought and also mines of limonite iron ore. Near Bacton Sta- 

 tion are large deposits of kaolin near the abandoned Trimble Iron 

 Mine, famous as a locality of wavellite and coeruleolactite. 



In the valley, between the longitudes of Berwyn and Glen 




206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Loch, are outcrops of a schist, whether interbedded in the lime- 

 stone or folded is not certain. On the Schuylkill section we find 

 very slaty limestone (Bullock's quarry, etc.), and also, in the 

 limestone, beds not over two feet thick of a hydromica schist or slate. 

 North-northwest of Berwyn about one mile a similar slaty rock 

 forms a hill on the farm of Mr. A, J. Cassatt, and thence west- 

 Avard appears at intervals. At Cassatt' s dips, not very satisfactory, 

 were toward the north S. 10' E. 60', and towards the south S. 

 10' E. 90'. About 600 feet west-southwest of this is a quarry 

 in limestone, with dips of S. 30' E. 80' on the northerly side and 

 middle and S. 20° E. 70' on the southerly side. The easterly 

 face of this quarry showed a small compressed synclinal, and the 

 slate is not far from the line of this synclinal. To the westward 

 i} again appears just south of the large quarry at Howellville. A 

 little less than a mile west of Howellville and about a mile north 

 of Paoli Station it forms a prominent hill. On its southerly slope 

 a slaty limestone dips S, 25' E, 85°. In the road which passes 

 through a small gap in it the rock itself is not exposed, but lime- 

 stone on both sides, dipping S. 20' E. 70' to 90°. The slate itself 

 is exposed in a small quarry on the hill, and appears to dip S. 10' 

 to 20' E. 80' to 85°. On the north flank of this hill the Chester 

 Valley Railroad passes through a cut in limestone S. 20° E. 75°. 



Five hundred feet westward the slate hill is again prominent, 

 with a small limestone quarry on its north flank. The hill is quite 

 regular for about a mile, showing one gap through which a small 

 atream flows northward. It ends a little east of Cedar Hollow 

 Station, Chester Valley Railroad, with limestone on the uorth flank 

 dipping S. 20° E. 75° and S. 30° E. 60'. 



Nearly three miles to the westward, on the left (north) l)ank of 

 Valley Creek, and less than a half-mile northeast of Mill Lane Sta- 

 tion (Chester Valley Railroad), is a high hill of the same schist. 

 This, being wooded, is a prominent feature in the landscape, espe- 

 cially looking from the line of the Pennsylvania Railroad, which, 

 opposite, descends the northerly slope of the hydromica schist ridge 

 and continues westwardly near its foot, affl)rding a succession of fine 

 views. In this hill I found no outcrop of the slate which could be 

 satisfactorily measured. At one place the strike appeared to be 

 N. (50° E. , and the dip probably southeast. There is limestone on 

 the north side within 500 feet of the schist, and on the south side 




1900.] XATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 207 



within twenty feet, dip S. 30^ E. 65^. That on the south has 

 been very extensively quarried by AVilliam B. Irvine and Andrew 

 Carty (Knickerbocker quarries). The dip is about S. 30° E. 60° 

 in the quarries. 



North of this hill Umonite pseudomorphs after pyrite occur loose 

 in the soil. Rarely a portion of the enclosing rock is attached. 

 It is a damourite schist. They occur also iu the schist of the 

 hill east of Cedar Hollow Station. 



In the Knickerbocker quarries a narrow vein was filled with fiue 

 crystallized, crystalline and fibrous aragonite. 



Nearly due south of this, and less than a half-mile north of 

 Frazer, hence very near the south margin of the valley, is a smaU 

 hill of similar schist north of the Lancaster turnpike with limestone 

 on both sides within 500 feet. It appears to dip S. about 30° E, 

 about 80°, the Hmestone S. 25°-35° E. 55°-60°. This, of course, 

 is not at all in line with the outcrops near the Chester Valley Rail- 

 road, but nearly ou the strike of this outcrop at Glen Loch, a mile 

 and a half further west, is another ou the farm of Mr, William E. 

 Lockwood, forming a low hill striking more southwest than the 

 trend of the valley. I found no good exposures. 



At Catanach's quarr}', uear Cedar Hollow, a gravel of quartz 

 pebbles overlies the limestone; a similar gravel occurs south of the 

 Valley Forge gap, on the road to Devon. About four miles west 

 of Downingtown the valley narrows to about a half-mile. At 

 Coates\nlle it is crossed by the West branch of the Brandy wine ; 

 thence westward it becomes still narrower. 



At the west boundary of Chester county it is crossed by the 

 Octorara creek and is again of greater width, about a half-mile. 

 In Lancaster county it continues just as clearly defined as in Ches- 

 ter, though the floor of the valley is higher and the slopes of the 

 bounding hills less steep. These hills are just as in Chester county, 

 hydromica schist on the south, Cambrian sandstone and schists on 

 the north. 



Dr. Frazer' s tracing of the probable connection of the limestone 

 of this valley with that of the Lancaster Valley is one of the most 

 valuable contributions to the geology of this part of the State. 

 The identification of the limestone of these two valleys carries with 

 it the identity of the bounding sandstone. 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



The discovery of fossils in the Lancaster limestone^ seems to 

 prove that part at least of the Lancaster limestone is Cambrian, 

 and hence that part at least of that of the Chester VaUey must be 

 of the same age. 



There seeming to be no doubt that the easterly end of this lime- 

 stone is a synclinal near Willow Grove, I carefully examined the 

 westerly termination. As I deem the structure not certainly made 

 out, I desire to place my observations on record, in hope that 

 future work by abler hands may solve the problem. 



Going westward by the main route of travel, the Pennsylvania 

 Railroad, the casual traveler passes out of the Chester Valley 

 almost without noticing it, and is apt to regard the next valley on 

 the north as its continuation; whereas, on approaching the Octo- 

 rara, the railroad bends quite abruptly to the north, and ascend- 

 ing the left bank of the Octorara a very short distance, passes by 

 the gap of that stream through the sandstone of the North Valley 

 Hill, crosses the Octorara to the town of Christiana, then passes 

 over two miles of gueissoid rocks and then through Copper Mine 

 Ridge (Cambrian sandstone) to Gap Station, on the southeasterly 

 edge of the Pequea Branch of the great Lancaster Valley. 



Beginning at Midway, now the western edge of Coatesville, and 

 near the point at which the Lancaster turnpike leaves the valley 

 and takes a more northerly course, the Valley road** is an impor- 

 tant highway through Quarry ville to the Susquehanna. For so 

 hilly a region it is remarkably free from steep hills, and yet devi- 

 ates very little from a straight line. Running westward along the 

 foot of the North Valley Hill, it crosses the Octorara about a mile 

 and a half west of Atglen, and then ascends the hill to its summit, 

 which is here very narrow, so that in passing along the road the 

 adjacent valleys, both north and south, are visible, the elevation 

 being about 665 feet or about 200 feet above the creek. 



The descent of the floor of the limestone valley from Parkesburg 



•* Oleyiellus and Obolella, one mile northeast of Gap Station. C. D. Wal- 

 oott, Am. Jour. Soc, Vol. XLVII, Jan., 1894. 



*^ Now often called the Old Valley road, to distinguish it from a compara- 

 tively short liighwaj- also called Valley roati, laid out more recently from 

 Parkesburg to Atglen, and lying in the valley about half a mile south of the 

 Old Valley road, which runs along the North Valley Hill near its base. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209 



westward to the Octorara is quite gentle, as is also its ascent to 

 the westward of that creek." , 



The floor of the gneiss valley on the north rises much more 

 x-apidly, so much so that at about five miles west of the Octorara 

 the gneiss rises to the level of the sandstone, tho northerly valley 

 ends and thence westward the drainage is, as in Chester county, 

 from the gneiss region across the valley southward, except the first 

 creek, Valley run, which flows southward through the North hill 

 into the valley, which it follows eastward to the Octorara, and 

 except also the Quarry-^nlle drainage which is northwestward. The 

 ridge trends S. 60° W. for two and a half miles, then S. 70° W. 

 Throughout this distance the typical Cambrian sandstone is shown 

 by fragments, by the sandy soil and in occasional outcrops in place. 

 One dip, at a good exposure, half a mile from Christiana, was 

 S. 20° E. 6o°. Two miles beyond, the strike is K 65° E., dip 

 uncertain. On the rise of the hill beyond this, and about 100 

 yards west of the road to Steelville, the rock is exposed on both 

 sides of the road, which is almost exactly on the strike S. 70° W. 

 On the north side it is typical Cambrian sandstone, on the south 

 the same with thin layers of dark sandy mica schist. This con- 

 tinues for nearly 500 feet, and then, near the top of the hill, the 

 rocks are less exposed, but there are mica schist fragments on both 

 sides. About .25 m. west of the road to Steeleville the road and 

 hill trend S. 75° W. , quite level, to and beyond a road leading 

 north to Smyrna. East of this cross-roads the sandstone, unusually 

 hard and massive, approaching quartzite, is visible in large loose 

 masses — one of several tons weight, but not certainly in place. 

 The soil is very sandy. At the cross-roads the sandstone outcrops 



" In C*, p. 17, it is stated that the Pennsylvania Railroad crosses the 

 Chester Valley west of Cain, and gradually rises upon the north slope to 

 "The Gap," in Lancaster county, and tha,t from Pomeroy westward the 

 floor of the valley rises rapidly into Lancaster county, but not so fast as the 

 railroad. This does not accord with my observations. 



Tested by barometer the levels of Pomeroy and the Oclarara creek, here 

 the boundary between Chester and Lancaster counties, are nearly the same. 

 The railroad rises from Pomeroy westward to the watershed between Buck 

 Run and the Octorara, but immediately descends as shown on p. 18 where 

 levels are given, Pomeroy A^'y , Parkesburg (2 m.) 537', Summit 562^, Pen- 

 ningtonville (5 m. from Parkesburg) 500'. In Levels Above Tide, Chris- 

 tiana, in Lancaster county, about half a mile from the Octorara, is given 

 about 491'. Moreover, the drainage of the valley from a point two 

 miles west of Pomeroy is westward iuto the Octorara. The railroad, how- 

 ever, as above stated, leaves the valley before entering Lancaster county. 

 14 




210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



S. 20° E. 75°; .2 m. west of the cross-roads is a quarry iu the 

 sandstone ou the north side of the road S. 30° E, 35°. It is near 

 this that the valley ou the north is almost obliterated bv the rise 

 of the floor, and here also the Valley road Ijegins to leave the 

 summit, but the deviation is slight. The road now crosses the 

 Sadsbury-Bart township line, and soon crosses a small creek about 

 sixty feet below the summit. This is Valley run, which flowing 

 southward from the gneiss into the valley flows eastward through 

 it to the Octorara. 



AVest of this creek the road rises gently about thirty feet in 

 .3 m. to a cross-roads (north nine miles to Williamstown). The 

 road continues to rise, as does also the hill and the floor of the 

 valley. In the latter are abandoned iron mines (between Bart 

 Post-office and Nine Points). Xo fast rock is visible along the 

 road, but much quartz in fragments, Eome white, some rusty and 

 some smoky, closely resembling that occurring north of the same 

 hill in Chester county. 



After a descent of about seventy feet the road crosses the creek 

 which drains the Gap nickel mine. Here the sandstone is not 

 visible, but north of the road and ou the left bank of the creek is 

 a bold blufl'of dark mica schist with quartz, showing minor plica- 

 tions and dipping N. 35° W. 80° to 85°. The road rises beyond 

 this creek about seventy feet, and then descends fifty, to cross the 

 westerly branch of the last-mentioned creek; beyond this the road 

 ascends ninety feet, and then descends slightly to cross a small 

 creek. This is about a mile and a half east of May Post-office. 

 Here the schist is again exposed, together with a large amount of 

 loose trap, a fine-grained olivine diabase. 



Beyond this the road passes through a very soft unctuous mica- 

 ceous rock, very fragile, resembling that which occurs with the iron 

 ores. 



Two-tenths of a mile west of the trap masses of hard Cambrian 

 sandstone become very abundant; the fences are made of it, and 

 great quantities lie in dumps, together with a few masses of trap. 

 About .1 m. beyond a road goes south into the valley. Opposite 

 this road, about five hundred feet north of the Valley road, is a 

 precipitous cliff', about fifty feet high, of the typical sandstone. It 

 is much jointed, very compact and hard, a]>proaching quartzite. 

 The base of this cliff' is 100 feet above the road. 




1900.] NAIURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



From this '^vestward the sandstone is abundant to May Post- 

 office near which is trap, but insignificant in quantity compared 

 with the outcrop a mile further east. West of this is a gradual 

 descent for three-quarters of a mile, the road bearing S. 80° W., 

 and then a gradual descent of about one hundred feet in 1.25 

 miles S. 60° W. to Quarry ville.'^ 



South of the valley, in Lancaster as in Chester county, ranges 

 the straight and little-varying South Valley Hill of hydromica 

 schists. South of Quarry ville its elevation is 150 feet to 170 feet 

 above Quarryville Station, which, taken at about 488 feet 

 would give an elevation of from 638 feet to 658 feet. 



Fi'om points near the summit a bird's-eye view of Quarryville 

 and the adjacent country may be had, beautiful in itself and in- 

 structive geologically. Looking eastward the valley is seen as far as 

 the eye can reach,' bounded northward by the ( 'ambrian sandstone 

 hill. Westward, high, apparently irregular hills close the valley 

 and end the view. Northward, or rather north-northwestward, 

 stretches the irregular valley of the Big Beaver creek, bounded 

 east and west by high hills, but northward permitting the view to 

 extend to the great Lancaster limestone val]e3\^^ 



Examining more closely, these eastern and western hills are seen 

 to send forth promontories overlapping each other, as pointed out 

 by Dr. Frazer, so that while the valley is continuous it is tortuous, 

 as is most evident to a traveler upon the railroad which follows it. 



** C*, p. 114, "Prof. Frazer shows that the valley limestoue lies on Potsdam 

 sandstone from the Schuylkill to near Coatesville ; that here, for a short 

 distance, thin mica schist layers come in between the limestone and the 

 sandstone (these would be Prof. Rogers' Upper Primal slates), and that west 

 of Pomeroy and all the way to Quarryville, in Lancaster county, no sandstone 

 underlies the limestone ; but, instead of that, ihe limestoue rests upon felds- 

 pathic gneiss beds, gneissoid mica schists, etc. (these would be Prof. Rogers' 

 Lower Primal slates)." But, sofar as Ihaveseeu, nowhere east of Coatesville 

 is the typical sandstone much better shown than in the gap of the Octorara, 

 thence westward for a mile and at the locality mentioned near May Post- 

 otfice, and it is as well shown for the greater part of the intervening distance 

 as it is north of the valley in Chester county. 



^' Dr. Frazer well describes the westerly ending of the valley: "The 

 north boundary wall sweeps up to the northwest, leaving the level limestone 

 land between itself and Quarrj-ville. The south wall sweeps around 

 Quarryville and almost closes up the valley a short distance due north of 

 that town and west of the Mount Holly schoolhouse " (CCC, p. 75). The 

 trend of the westerly hills is, however, nearly north-northwest, bordering 

 Big Beaver creek, a branch of which rises a little south of Quarryville and 

 flows nearly north -north west and then northwest, so that the angle of the 

 two valleys is much more than a right-angle. 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Bearing in naind Mr. Tiall's demonstration of the synclinal struc- 

 ture of the easterly end, " where the Potsdam sandstone borders it 

 on the south, and where its round basin-shaped east end is per- 

 fectly manifest" (C^ p. 116), and his further demonstration that 

 in the middle of this half-round basin -shaped end lies the north- 

 eastern end of the hydromica schist of the South Valley Hill, I 

 sought for evidence of the structure of the hill at this westerly 

 end. Exposures of the hydromica schist are few and poor — one 

 .4 m. south of Quarryville was S. 10° E. 40°; further south 

 strike IS. 50° E., dip uncertain ; .5 m. dip southeast; .7 m. S. 

 50°; .8 m. S. 20° E. 70°; 3 m. S. 30° E. 65°. This was near 

 Mechanics' Grove ; three miles northwest of Mechanics* Grove and 

 southeast of The Buck, S. 20° E. 45°. 



About a mile northeast of The Buck a fence was seen, composed 

 of a quite hard plicated gneiss, containing white feldspar and 

 quartz beds or veins. This appeared to be of quite limited extent 

 and was the only exception to the hydromica. About two miles 

 nearly north of The Buck the road descends eastward a long hill 

 of the schists, which near the top dip west 10°, further down S. 

 40° E. 20° ; these were soft, even-bedded and sectile. This was 

 about three miles a little north of east of Kawliusville. Then descend- 

 ing a smaU branch of the Pequea Creek, the same schists were 

 very largely exposed, dipping S. 80° W. ± 10°. This was in the 

 vicinity of Smithville, and on the road from Rawlinsville to the 

 Spread Eagle. Eastward toward New Providence no exposures 

 Avere seen until about a mile west of New Providence, when much 

 loose quartz appeared, and then a mine of limonite iron ore and, 

 a quarter of a mile further, a hard limestone, N, 30° "W. 35°, 

 with minor plications. This point is probably three miles at least 

 north of a line in the prolongation of the southerly side of the 

 sandstone of the North Valley Hill. Northwest of New Provi- 

 dence, about a half mile, a plicated limestone dips south to S. 

 10^ W. ±16°. About 500 feet east of New Providence a schis- 

 tose limestone coming out of the quarry like flagstones, but some 

 portions plicated, N. ± 40° W. 10° to 20°. 



About 500 feet north by west of New Providence limestone dips 

 N. ± 40° W. ± 45°. About 1000 feet further, N. 20° W. 30° 

 to 40°. About a half mile south of New Providence, in a 

 quarry, strike N. 00'^ E., dip in one place 70° northwest, in an- 




1900,] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 213 



Other, inaccessible, it seemed from a distance to be gentle south- 

 west. On the railroad .6 m. south of Kew Providence the lime- 

 stone is just visible, but at about one mile, in quarries, it is from 

 0° to S. 15°. This is about 2.25 miles northwest of Quarryville. 

 Nearly north of Quarry\'ille is Hawksville, and here limestone 

 outcrops N. 45° W. 35°. On the Valley road east by north of 

 QuarryviUe .25 m. limestone dips 0, further east, northwest gentle, 

 then sandy mica schists shown in fragments only, and at one mile 

 Cambrian sandstone, abundant, the road leaving the valley and 

 ascending at a very acute angle the southerly slope of the North 

 Valley Hill. '» 



The road north from May Post-office, that is, near the westerly 

 edge of the tableland, ascends the valley of a small creek flowing 

 southward across a broad tableland, continuous northward from the 

 North Valley Hill^ and free from steep slopes, except on its west- 

 erly border, where it ends abruptly at the valley of Big Beaver 

 creek in the series of promontories before described. 



One-tenth mile north of May Post-office the sandstone is in great 

 quantity and extends for nearly a mile. Here a road goes east to 

 Georgetown, and a dark sandy schist appears. About 1.3 miles 

 from May Post-office another road goes east to Georgetown, and at 

 1.4 a road west to Camargo; between these the only rock is quartz 

 in loose masses. It does not resemble that of the Cambrian sand- 

 stone. At about two miles another road goes west to Camargo, 

 and a schistose sandy rock dips S. 70° W. 15°. This, 1 think, is 

 the Cambrian. In the vicinity the loose masses are of the typical 

 rock. 



A little beyond this is the Bowery Church, the road attaining 

 its greatest elevation, 810 feet. North of the church it descends 

 into a small valley which heads perhaps .2 m. to the eastAvard 

 and descends to the valley of Big Beaver creek, on the north side 

 of Camargo. Near New Providence the easterly branch of the 

 creek, which flows through this side valley, is joined by the south 

 branch (not shown on the map C^) which, heading in the limestone 

 southeast of QuarryviUe, flows northwestward. The valley of 



'" In the map of Lancaster county (C^), the Valley road is represented as 

 ■within the limestone area four miles east of QuarryviUe. I think, however, 

 it leaves the limestone three miles further west, as around May Post-office 

 the Cambrian saudstoue is very abundant. 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



this south branch is taken advantage of by the Quarryville branch 

 of the Reading & Lancastei' Railroad, which passes through this 

 rugged region by easy grades, and with very moderate cuts and 

 fills, though with little straight track. 



In the valley of Big Beaver creek (south branch) the limestone 

 seems to be almost, if not quite, continuous. There is, as Dr. 

 Frazer notes, one narrow ridge .2 miles northwest of Quarryville, 

 which appears to cut it off. This is of hard heavy -bedded mica 

 schist, and is the ridge on which HawksviUe is situated, though at 

 Hawksville limestone appears, dipping N. 45° W. 35°. The schist 

 is gnarled and twisted. The dip appears to be steep, but I could 

 obtain no satisfactory raeasui'emeut. It is not over .25 mile wide 

 at the creek. 



The fact that the hydromica schists of the south hill occupy the 

 region in the strike of the valley west of the limestone at Quarry- 

 ville seems to negative the theory of a fault along the south side 

 of the valley bringing up the schists from below. "^ 



My view of the westerly end of the valley would be that on the 

 north the gneiss and mica schist (Rogers' Lower Primal) and the 

 Cambrian sandstone end in a high tableland with promontories 

 projecting into the Big Beaver valley, but that other areas of the 

 sandstone overlie the gneiss and mica schist east of the Big Beaver 

 valley, but none of these rocks appear west of it near Quarryville; 

 that the limestone, with a general westerly dip of low intousity, 

 sweeps northwest along the Big Beaver toward the Lancaster val- 

 ley; the hydromica schist, widening fii'st southward, widens west of 

 Quarryville northwardly overlying the limestone. 



III. Limestone of Flourtown, Cream Valley, Etc. 



The third series should really not be separated fi'ora the second, 

 for there can be no question, I think, that they are identical ; the 

 Spring Mill sandstone and limestone being the southeasterly legs 

 of the synclinal of which the limestone of Plymouth and the 

 sandstone of Cold Point are the northwestern," as shown on Mr. 

 Hall's map, C*, for we can trace the limestone of the Chester- 

 Montgomery valley around the northern end of the hydromica to 

 the Schuylkill and find it in its turn surrounded by the Cambrian 



" Dr. Frazer, Pi'oc. Am. Ass. A. S., 1884, p. 394. ' 

 '2 Final Report, I, p. 174 ; C*, 303. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215 



sandstone. Their supposed absence westward has led to several 

 theories." 



As far as to the Schuylkill this structure seems to be admitted.'* 

 It is west of the Schuylkill where the diversity of opinion is 

 manifest, and this, I believe, arises from a failure to recognize the 

 topography of the region and the rocks which ai'e actually there." 



A glance at the topographical map of Philadelphia and vicinity 

 of the U. S. Geological Survey will show that west of and near 

 the Schuylkill there are, southeast of the great Chester Valley, 

 three subordinate valleys, all trending west-southwest, and sepa- 

 rated by high hills of hydromica schist. The northwesterly two 



" Prof. Lesley's Notes of the Geol. of the ScJmylkill River, 1884, p. 6. 



'* "Its acknowledged syucllnal structure in Montgomery county, where 

 the Potsdam sandstone borders it on the south, and where its round basin- 

 shaped east end is perfect'y manifest." C, p. 116. 



If tradition may be trusted, the source of the great spring which gives 

 name to Spring Mill is in the northerly leg of the synclinal though the spring 

 itself is in the southerly valley. The following facts I obtained in 1893, 

 from the well-known Dr. Hiram Corson, of Plymouth, he being then over 

 ninety years of age. There was a large sink hole near Plymouth meeting- 

 house filled up when the Plymouth railroad was built. When he was young 

 it was reported and currently believed that chaff thrown into this sink hole 

 wa^ ejected at Spring Mill. 



On the property of Mrs. Hovenden near the meeting-house was a well fifty 

 feet deep, at the bottom of which was a swiftly flowing stream. 



A quarter of a mile west of this was a sink hole in a quarry (since filled 

 up) at which the sound of running water could be clearly heard. 



The spring is said to How twenty-two hundred gallons per minute. The 

 limestone area, southeast of the hj^dromica, seems insufficient to yield so 

 great an amount while the northwest area is xery much greater. So far as 

 I have been able to ascertain no large spring rises in the northwest valley. 



" In C*, p. 127, it is stated : ''The southerly border of the limestone belt 

 crosses the Schuylkill at Spring Mill and follows Gulf Creek iuto Chester 

 county a little less than a mile south of the Baptist meeting-house" — pre- 

 sumably the Great Valley Baptist Church, 1.5 miles north- northwest of 

 Devon Station. In Prof. Lesley's summary of the arguments for and against 

 the synclinal structure of the Chester Valley (C, pp. 116 et scq.) he seems 

 to regard the topographical valley alone, and to esteem the limestone and 

 sandstone outcrops southeast of the hydromica schist as of no importance 

 because they are so much smaller than those on the northwest. 



But in the quotation from p. 127 he clearly recognizes the limestone at 

 Spring Mill as the southerly border and traces it along Gulf Creek, but no 

 one who has visited the locality can possibly unite the limestone of Spring 

 Mill with that on Gulf Creek near its mouth. The identity of the Spring 

 Jlill limestone with that of West Conshohocken cannot be doubted, while 

 between the latter and the limestone on Gulf Creek, between the Gulf and 

 its mouth, intervenes the hydromica schist hill just as it. does east of the 

 Schuylkill between the limestone of Spring Mill and that of the Plymouth 

 Valley. It is possible, however, that the outcrops on Gulf Creek west of the 

 Gulf may be intended, for these are the continuation of the Spring Mill 

 limestone, but if so, several miles of the schists separate them from the lime- 

 stone of the Chester Valley near the Great Valley Baptist Church. 




216 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



are soon lost on the hydromica schist highland, the southeasterly 

 continues along the southeast foot of the hydromica schist hill. 

 The Gulf Creek, rising in the southeast valley about 1.5 miles 

 south of the Great Valley Baptist Church, follows it to the Gulf, 

 then turns abruptly north through the hill l)y a deep and precipi- 

 tous gorge, and then follows the northwest foot of the southeasterly 

 hydromica schist hill and along the southerly edge of the Chester 

 Valley limestone to the Schuylkill; this hill is here quite narrow, 

 the strike Kne of the two northwesterly hills being occupied by 

 limestone continuous with that of the Chester Valley, but a mile 

 or two to the westw^ard the three hills unite to form a tableland 

 nearly two miles wide southeast of the church. Some of the 

 difficulty may arise from the fact that the Schuylkill river, flowing 

 on the line of dip across the Chester Valley or Plymouth limestone 

 and the hydromica past the upper part of Conshohockeu, turns 

 almost at right angles, along the base of the opposite ancient 

 gneiss ridge and on the line of strike of the Spring ]Mill-AVest 

 Conshohockeu limestone for over a mile, when it resumes its south- 

 east course and passes through a gap in the ancient gneiss hill. 



On the left bank, just above this gap, is Spring Mill. The 

 limestone appears on the left bank at and above Spring Mill, and 

 to the southeast of it the sandstone. Southwest of these outcrops 

 the limestone and sandstone appear to be covered by the longitu- 

 dinal flow of the river, so that while the river is but about a quar- 

 ter of a mile wide the distance between the outcrops at Spring Mill 

 and West Conshohockeu is about one and a half miles. 



On the right (west) bank the limestone appears in considerable 

 quantity in the long, straight, narrow Cream Valley and supplied 

 the Merion furnaces w'ith flux during their whole existence. 



West of West Conshohockeu there are but three actual outcrops 

 of the limestone of this belt in ^Montgomery and Delaware coun- 

 ties, viz., at Gulf Mills, at Stacker's or Brooke's quarry, .25 mile 

 west of the Montgomery-Delaware county line and on the farm of 

 Peter Pechin, one-half mile northwest of Radnor Station. Limo- 

 nite iron ore, as usual, overlies the limestone and was extensively 

 mined east of the Gulf and less largely on Pechin's farm, north- 

 northwest of Radnor Station and Fenimore's, a half-mile further 

 west, and also south of Devon Station, Chester county. On and 

 west of Pechin's there are sink holes near the Eajrle road, be- 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 217 



tween the Kiug of Prussia road aud that leading to St. David's 

 Station, and in Wayne, due north of the Presbyterian Church and 

 south of the Eagle road, the last now filled up, also about a half 

 mile northeast of Sugartown, Willistown township, Chester 

 county. 



The above limestone outcrops are, respectively, .1, 1.25, 2.5 and 

 3 miles from the Schuylkill; the sink holes 3.4, 3.6, 3.7, 4.1 

 and 10 miles. 



As already stated, the sandstone is well exposed on the left bank 

 of the Schuylkill, about 500 feet southeast of the limestone, 

 dipping S. 40^. On the right or west bank the sandstone is not 

 visible, its place being taken by, or it being concealed in, mica 

 schists, which border the limestone on the southeast and which also 

 appear between two adjacent outcrops of limestone. The south- 

 easterly limestone dips about S. 30° E. 80°; the schist S. 28° E. 

 74°, the northwesterly limestone about 80° northwest. 



Five miles from the Schuylkill the valley is no longer prominent, 

 its floor having risen to 400 feet above tide, almost to the level of 

 the adjacent hills, nevertheless a depression can be traced southwest- 

 ward, in which north of Sugartown there is the sink hole above 

 mentioned, but for nearly sixteen miles no limestone is visible. 



North of West Chester aud about fifteen miles from the Schuyl- 

 kill the valley is once more well marked, its floor occupied in part 

 by the garnetiferous schists, its southeast boundary the ancient 

 gneiss hill on which West Chester is situated, and its northwest 

 the South (Chester) Valley Hill, precisely as near the Schuylkill, 

 except that here the mica schists make the southerly part of the 

 hill aud that a ridge of serpentine appears in the valley. In this 

 valley, about a mile and a half northwest of West Chester, at 

 Cope's, the limestone once more appears at the surface, accom- 

 panied by the garnetiferous schists which adjoin the limestone of 

 West Conshohocken and appear at close intervals the whole dis- 

 tance and which to the westward include the sandstone. 



The schists here appear between two outcrops of limestone about 

 100 feet apart, the northwesterly very slightly exposed, sho wing- 

 now only one mass of limestone, dipping apparently gently to the 

 southeast or toward the larger quarry and under the schists. 



The southeasterly quarry has been wrought in a stratum of 

 limestone only thirty feet to sixty feet in thickness, aud for a 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



distance of about 200 feet. Both vralls are visible. The Dorth- 

 westerly is of garnetiferous mica schist, or gneiss, including masses 

 of feldspar, exactly resembling that of Cream Valley, Eadnor. 

 It dips N. 45° W. 65°, the limestone in contact with it N. 55° 

 W". 60°, but they appear to be strictly conformable aud the slight 

 difference is probably due to irregularity of the surface measured. 

 The southeasterly wall is a hard schistose gneiss, containing 

 much feldspar, some apparently porphyritic, and some an aggre- 

 gate of crystalline feldspar. The limestone, however, appears to 

 rise in an anticlinal over this and to dip gently southeast beyond 

 it, but, apparently, of a thickness of but a few inches. The gneiss 

 surface toward the quarry is curved, but in the straight part 

 toward the southwest end dips N. 30° W. 65°, while over it the 

 limestone appears with a northwest dip of not over 20°. The 

 appearance further east is as if the limestone was folded completely 

 over this gneiss. This limestone is not far from the strike of the 

 serpentine, which, however, does not make its appearance. 



About a mile west of Cope's the East branch of the Braudywine 

 flows in a nearly southeast direction across the strike of the rocks, 

 and at the crossing of the creek by the Strasburg road is Cope's 

 Bridge, or Copesville. About a quarter of a mile above is a small 

 valley in the hard mica schists and gneiss. Above this for .3 mile 

 is a coarser gueiss and hornblende schist, dipping S. 30° E. 60° to 

 70', followed by another valley seemingly in prolongation of a 

 limestone valley west of the Brandywine about to be described. 

 In the line of the upper valley the creek changes its direction for 

 nearly a half-mile from southeast to nearly northeast. The 

 limestone of Cope's quarry appears to be in this intermediate hill, 

 not far from the strike of the southerly valley, and it does not 

 appear in either valley east of the creek. 



In the northwesterly valley we find the spangled mica schist full 

 of garnets, forming the northwest hill aud dipping very clearly 

 and regularly S. 45°. In the southerly hill noexposures were noted 

 except along the Brandywine, but the loose rocks are hard feldspar 

 aud hornblende gneiss. The Conshohockon trap dyke (diabase) 

 passes near the summit of this hill on its southeasterly slope, but 

 reaches the Brandywine only about .1 mile above Cope's Bridge, 

 the southerly valley not extending over .3 mile from the Brandy- 

 wine. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 219 



Opposite the northerly valley, on the right bank of the Brandy- 

 wine, but a little higher up the stream, a well-marked limestone 

 valley stretches west-southw'est. Southeast of it is the high hill 

 of the schists on which Marshallton is situated. The first quarry 

 is that of George March, about .8 mile northwest of Copesville. 

 It is wholly in compact limestone, dipping quite regularly S. 80^ 

 E. 20^. Over it are quantities of loose mica schist, with some 

 large masses about 100 feet south of the quarry. About .3 mile 

 north-northwest of the quarry the neai-est rocks on that side appear 

 on a lane on the Ingram farm. They are hornblende aud feldspar 

 schistose gneiss, striking N. 80° to 90° E., and dipping 60° and 

 upwards nearly south, or toward the limestone. As stated, the 

 valley is here well marked, the north and south hills rising to a 

 height of 150 feet or more. A section of this point shows con- 

 tinued widening of the schists, which form the Marshallton hill. 



The gneisses and schists here, as pointed out by Dr. Frazer, bear 

 much resemblance to those of southern Delaware county,"® aud 

 this not only in their essential constituents, but also in their con- 

 taining both blue and gray kyanite. The more micaceous schists 

 are nearly a mile in width to the border of the ancient gneiss, 

 which is a little north of the Fairview Schoolhouse, the serpentine 

 being here, as at Taylor's mill, close to the old gneiss. The 

 harder and more feldspathic and hornblendic rocks north of the 

 limestone are succeeded northward by mica schists to Hawdey's 

 mill, a mile north of the limestone, the dips being to the southeast, 

 averaging below 45°, and are there succeeded by the hydromica 

 schists nearly 90°, but about .25 mile above Sugar's bridge there 

 is a small outcrop of very sandy schist closely resembling those 

 occuring with the typical sandstone. 



A mile northwest of this on the farm of "Wilson Young's estate, 

 and in the valley of the creek flowiug into the Brandy wine at 

 Hawley'smill, is a small outcrop of dolomite containing much green 

 talc or chlorite. The country west of the Brandywine is much 

 more hilly than that to the east, a succession of hills trending about 

 S. 70° W. rising 250 feet above the adjacent valleys. 



About .4 mile south-southwest of March's quarry is a smaller one 

 on the farm of Moses Woodward, almost obliterated, mica schist 

 fragments abundant on the south, but no good exposures. Just 



'« CS p. 61. 




"y20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



beyond this there is a low walershed in the valley, the westward 

 drainage being into the West branch through Broad run. On 

 this run, about .7 mile from March's, was Moses Bailey's quarry."' 

 This quarry is quoted from Rogers (C*, p. 70) as being the most 

 easterly. It is probable the more easterly quarries were not opened 

 when Rogers wrote. 



On the Strasburg road, a short distance east of this quarry, is a 

 large outcrop of pegmatite, or coarse granite, with garnetiferous 

 mica schist very close to it to the northwest, both near the floor of 

 the valley, but probably on its southeast side, while on the north- 

 west the hill is composed of schistose gneiss dipping steeply north- 

 west and forming a high hill. Immediately south of the limestone 

 quarry are garnetiferous mica schists, and in them was found a 

 large and distinct pebble of the ancient gneiss. This corresponds 

 closely with the similar occurrence in the Stacker-Brooke quarr}- 

 in Radnor township. 



Three-quarters of a mile west-southwest is the most prominent 

 quarry of the region, known as the Poorhouse quarry. It has 

 been wrought nearly northeast into the side of a comparatively 

 steep hill and wholly in htnestone, except the top of the north 

 west end. The limestone is hard and highly crystalline, but full 

 of small irregular cavities in which occur crystals of pearl spar, 

 quartz, chesterlite and, more rarely, rutile. On the northwest 

 side, near the entrance, the dip is clearly S. 40° E. 45°, but on 

 the same side of the quarry further in (northeast) the dip seems 

 to decrease rapidly to about 5° southeast. The back of the quarry 

 (northeast) shows sixty feet or seventy feet of limestone overlain 

 by ten feet to twenty feet of mica schist, perfectly conformable 

 though showing in one place a breaking down, due probably to a 

 sink hole in the limestone. The dip of this northeast side is about 

 5° southeast, though there is in it a distinct small anticlinal forming 

 an arch probably twenty feet wide fifteen feet high, but apparently 

 merely local and not disturbing the upper strata. The nearest 

 rocks observed to the southeast are hard porphyritic schistose 

 gneisses on the left bank of the "West In-anch of the Braudywine, 

 west of Glen Hall Station, Wilmington and Northex-n Railroad, 

 nearly horizontal, succeeded by fine-grained and plicated schists, 



'' Boardsley run. C*, p. 40, and Boardleyrun, p. 70, Broadley in the index, 

 are prohablj' typographical errors for Broad run. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221 



which at the Glen Hall bridge dip X. 70° W. 10° to 40°. This 

 dip is distinct, but most of the rock appears to have an irregu- 

 lar waving gentle southerly dip. The nearest northwest are on 

 a road bearing north-northwest on the west side of the quarry, 

 and about .3 mile from it, where a cut shows decomposing schists 

 and gneisses with thin strata of quartzite, the bedding or cleavage 

 quite regular S. 40° E. 50°, becoming steeper southwardly. 



From Cope's to the Poorhouse quarry, there seems to be a very 

 decided difference in character between the rocks above and those 

 below the limestone. Assuming those dipping under it to be 

 really below geologically, as seems almost certain, we have the 

 same succession as has been observed in the dolomites of New 

 York island, the underlying rocks being much harder and contain- 

 ing hornblende and feldspars in considerable quantity, while those 

 overlying are comparatively soft very schistose rocks, without horn- 

 blende and much less feldspar." 



About a mile nearly Avest of the Poorhouse quarry (probably a 

 little less than a half-mile on the dip line) is the Hayes' whetstone 

 quarry, of typical Cambrian sandstone interbedded in sandy mica 

 schists. The sandstone dips S. 30° to 50° E. 20° to 25°, or toward 

 the limestone. 



This is the first clear outcrop of the sandstone on this line west 

 of Wayne, though one specimen was found loose not far from the 

 Cope quarry, and a quartzite with toui-malines occurs near the 

 limestone quarries east of the Poorhouse quarry, but here the 

 sandstone is on the northwest side of the limestone with moderate 

 southeast dips, whereas near the Schuylkill it is on the southeast 

 side. 



Standing on the hill above the Poorhouse quarry, a fine view of 

 the Brandywine valley is had. To the eastward and westward it 

 is narrow, with high steep bordering hills, but southwest it is broad 

 and flat, with the creek forming an S bend and flowing 1.5 miles 

 in a lineal distance of .5 mile. Further southeast a depression 

 leads from Embreeville southwestward. At Embreeville, one mile 



'8 "As Prof. Dana has noted {Am. Jour. Scl, III, Vol. XXI, p. 439), the 

 beds underlying the limestone of New York county are highly quartzose, 

 while those overlying them are chiefly micaceous. Throughout West- 

 chester county south of the latitude of Sing Sing the writer has found this 

 lithological difference to prevail." Merrill. Metamorphic Strata of South- 

 east New York, Am. Jour. Sci., Ill, XXXIX, p. 387. 




222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



S. 50'^ W. from the Poorhouse quarry, is a small limestone quarry 

 in which the dip is S. 45° to 50° E. 60°. Less than 200 feet 

 northwest of this, mica schists, garnetiferous and spangled, are 

 well exposed, dipping regularly S. 45° to 55° E. 30° to 45°, hence 

 clearly under the limestone. In these schists is a dyke, bed or 

 vein of a partly kaolinized feldspar." To the southeast are gneisses 

 dipping S. 50° E. 55°. A mile and a half S. 60° W. from the 

 Embreeville quarry are the quarries of Pierce and Edwards, near 

 the Green Valley Baptist Church, the limestone dipping S. 50° E. 

 35°, and .5 mile further S. 60° W. Job Hayes' quarry near the 

 south line of Newlin township, the rock dipping S. 30° E. 35° 

 The adjacent rocks are not exposed. In almost the same dii-ection 

 1.25 miles further are the extensive Guest quarries, spoken of by 

 Rogers as Connor's quarry. Rogers gives the dip a.s southeast, 

 and mentions the white sandstone as dipping to the southeast north 

 of it with the older primal slates also dipping southeast beyond.*" 



My own observations give varied gentle dips in different parts 

 of these quarries to the southeast, southwest and northwest, but 

 the general dip is probably to the southeast quite gentle. In the 

 immediate vicinity small loose masses of the typical sandstone are 

 abundant, while large flat slabs of it are in use as flagstones at the 

 farmhouse north of the quarry, but I was unable to ascertain 

 exactly whence they were obtained. About 700 feet north of the 

 ((uarry mica schists dip S. 30^ W. 20° toward the quarry. Iron 

 ore occurs on the Doe run road about ,7 mile southeast of the quar- 

 ries, and also at Peunock's iron ore mines ,5 mile a little east of 

 north. Here considerable ore (limonite) appears to have been 

 taken out. On the Doe run road a half mile northwest of the 

 <|uarry, and thence southward, the typical sandstone is very well 

 and largely exposed, forming a hill about seventy feet high north- 

 west of the Guest quarry. xVn exception to any other locality in 

 the whole region, it is here much plicated. It dips southeast 20' 

 to 30"^, with sandy mica schists immediately southeast of it dip- 

 ping 15° S. E., and mica schists just west of it dipping S. 70- 

 W. 45°. About half-way between the sandstone and Guest's 

 quarry decomposing mica schists dip about 45° S. E. South of the 



" Soda-Orthoclase, T. C. Hopkins. Jotirn. Franklin Tnsf., CXLVII, p. 13. 

 s'' First Oeol Survey of Pa., I, 230. Quoted C\ p. 70. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 223 



quarry are uo exposures, but the soil is full of fragments of mica 

 schist and gneiss. 



This is the last quarry that can be certainly refeiTcd to the series 

 mentioned. Prof. Rogers, after discussing this series from Broad 

 run to the Guest quarry, says: " The furthest opening in the lime- 

 stone in this synchnal is that of Baker's quarry, half a mile east 

 of the west line of West Marlboro' township. ' "^^ 



The only quarry in this location would be the large one in the 

 bend of the Pomeroy & Newark Railroad, formerly Edwin Chan- 

 dler's, now Walter Darlington's, near the source of the south 

 branch of Doe run, but it seems impossible to consider this as 

 being in a synclinal continuation of the former line for two hiJls, 

 probably 150 feet in height, of sandstone and gneiss, intervene. 

 Geographically it is nearlj on the line of the quarries mentioned, but 

 it seems to belong to the range of quarries north of it (William 

 C. Jones, Isaac Hoopes) of the Doe run valley, presently to be 

 mentioned. 



IV. The Doe Run Valley. 



The fourth or Doe run limestone seems geographically to be 

 simply a continuation of the third, but I have deemed it best to 

 consider it separately because in the subdivision I have made I have 

 intended to include in each series those outcrops only which appear 

 to be not only of one horizon, but also, in all probability, continu- 

 ous underground when not visible at the surface, or at least not 

 distinctly cut off. The accompanying is a sketch map of this 

 valley. 



Going northwestward along the Doe run road from the Guest 

 quarry, as already stated, we cross southeast dipping mica schists, 

 then southeast dipping Cambrian sandstone, then northwest dip- 

 ping mica schist, and then no exposures, but a descent toward Doe 

 run. To the north are high hills of gneiss and mica schist, 

 through which Doe run and Buck run flow northeastward to the 

 Brandywine. In front is Doe run valley, stretching in a general 

 southwest direction. The floor of the valley is low and flat. It 

 appears to be bounded on all sides by mica schists and gneisses, 

 which also make prominent hills Avhich subdivide it in part. In- 

 cluding these hills it is about a mile and a half from east to west 



s' First Oeol. Survey of Pa., I, p. 230. Quoted C*, p. 72. 




224 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1900. 



^ 



■i^? 



«,A i-^^ 



'^ 



5 ts 





m 



^ 



S .s.<^ 



^ 



#^: 



'^; 



^r„r, \ I J^a^ 



MAPojDOEBAf VALLEY 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225 



and about two and a half from north to south. Its southerly and 

 westerly border is followed by the Pomei'oy & Xewark Railroad, 

 which, going north, crosses the divide between White Clay creek 

 and the Brandywine near Pusey Station, at about 470 feet 

 above tide. A half-mile beyond, its direction changes abi'uptly 

 fr»ra north to about west by south around the base of a high hill 

 of hard schistose hornblende rock, dipping about 10^ S. E. 

 After keeping the west by south course for nearly a^mile it crosses 

 the headwaters of the south branch of Doe run, and ^then turns 

 noi'th by east along the high hill of mica schist bounding the 

 valley on the west to Doe Run Station, about 374 feet above tide. '- 



In the valley are two prominent hills, both trending nearly north 

 and south, in echelon, the westerly projecting from the northern 

 highland, the easterly from the southern, from which, however, it 

 is cut off by a branch of Doe run. On both sides of the westerly 

 hiU and on the east side of the easterly are limestone outcrops. 

 The easterly hill, as shown by loose masses only, which, however, 

 are in gi-eat abundance, is of hornblende schist and gneiss, but on 

 its eastern flank near its northern end is an old limestone quarry 

 (Enos Bernard's), in which the strike is very nearly north and 

 south and the dip west, but whether 30'^ or 80^ could not be 

 decided, as the quarry has long been abandoned and but one mass 

 of rock was well exx)osed. Within 150 feet west of the limestone 

 Cambrian sandstone outcrops in abundance, but it is not exposed 

 sufficiently^ to measure. The summit of this hill commands an 

 excellent view of most of the valley. Across this hill the Down- 

 ingtown diabase dyke strikes nearly southwest. 



Looking southeast toward the Guest quarn', a mile and a quar- 

 ter distant, there is a marked depression in the hills. 



East of this hill is a road leading south to Chatham and north 

 to Doe Run village. Just east of this road are five sink holes on 

 land of Pusey Buffington and George Elvin, east-southeast of 

 which is a hiU about sixty feet in height, covered with sandstone 

 fragments. 



It seems not improbable that we have here a north and south 



*^ These are from table 3, Levels above Tide, Second Oeol. Survey of Pa.^ 

 iV. This table, however, gives Avondale 231.6, while table 141 gives it as 

 227. The geater elevation is probably most nearly correct as by table 141 

 Chadds Ford Junction is given as 129, but by table 41, 175. My own obser- 

 vation by barometer from "SYest Chester as datum gave 170. 

 15 




226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



synclinal basin of the limestone and sandstone underlaid by mica 

 schist, then ah anticlinal of the schist, the limestone eroded, but 

 appearing at the Guest quarry overlying the southeast dipping 

 sandstone. 



West of this hill, through low and flat ground, flows the main 

 Doe run, beyond nhich is the westerly hill of hard and hea\41y 

 bedded garnetiferous schists and gneisses, with limestone on both 

 flanks, no sandstone being visible. This hill is fully a quarter of 

 a mile wide and probably 150 feet above the valley. At its south- 

 ern termination, near which unite the north, west and south 

 branches of Doe run, the strike is N, 25-' E. , the dip nearly 90^ 

 The rock is hard, heavy-bedded gneiss. The road from Doe run to 

 Gum Tree crosses the hill about a half-mile to the north, the strike 

 of the gneiss being N. 40° E., the dip probably about 60- S. E., 

 or under the limestone, which has been (juarried about 500 feet 

 north of this road (I. H. Thompson's quarry, formerly McXeal's). 

 The limestone dips nearly east, 50^ to 70^, and is more highly 

 ciystalline than at any other of the Doe run quarries. On the 

 west slope of the hill a hard micaceous gneiss dips N. 60° W. 

 80°, about 700 feet northwest of Jones' limestone quarry. This 

 hill, therefore, appears to be an anticlinal underlying the limestone, 

 but exposing no sandstone. On the same flank of the hill as 

 Thompson's, but a half-mile north, is the (juarry of Ellis Woods, '^ 

 where the limestone dips S. 8<)° E. 85°, bounded westward by the 

 same garnetiferous schist, dipping N. 60- W. = 35°, which 

 appeal's also in fragments on all sides. The limestone is exposed 

 on a northwest and southeast road, .25 mile northwest of Woods', 

 dipping K (iO° W. 35°. 



Ci'ossing this anticlinal ridge westward, we descend into the 

 western and most uninterrupted branch o^ the valley, drained in its 

 northern part by a branch of Buck run and by the north branch 

 of Doe run, and in its southern by the south branch. The north- 

 westernmost quarry is that of William C. Jones, .1 mile south of 

 the Doe Run-Gum Tree road. The limestone is much plicated and 

 rolled Avith mica schist interbedded at the northern end. Dip at 

 the northeast part, S. 30° E. 35°; north end, ±8. 20°; south 

 side, S. 10° E. 20°. About a quarter of a mile south of Jones 

 are quarries of Cyrus Hoopes, in plicated limestone like that of 



"* Hayes' quarry, C*, p. 70, bat not Btayes' quarry, p. 309. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 227 



Jones' quarry, dipping S. 10^ AV. 10-. A little west of south of 

 these, 1.5 miles, the intervening space occupied first by the westerly 

 affluents of Doe run and then by the southerly branch, and 

 almost at the head of the latter, is a very large quarry on the farm 

 of Walter Darhngton, formerly Edwin Chandler, and being 

 almost certainly that mentioned by Rogei-s as Baker's quarry.** 

 Here the hmestone is nearly horizontal, with a quartzose mica schist 

 overlying it, in some places twelve to fifteen feet thick ; some pieces 

 of the schist resemble somewhat the schists adjacent to the Cam- 

 brian sandstone, but most of it does not; its dip is likewise nearly 

 0°. This schist is well exposed in the cut of the railroad imme- 

 dSately southeast, where it does not at all resemble that close to the 

 sandstone. East of it is a narrow outci'op of coarser mica schist, 

 then the diabase of the Downiugtown dyke. 



There seems no great difiiculty in regarding these westerly out- 

 crops as the westerly leg of an anticlinal overlying the mica schist, 

 and this would bring them into accord with the easterly outcrops. 

 There are, however, two objections : 



1. The sandstone is in great quantity at the easterly outcrops 

 and is not found in the western. 



2. The observed dips in the mica schist are steep, those in the 

 limestone gentle. 



On the map in C* the limestone is made continuous from Guest's 

 to and including all the Doe run quarries, and to and including 

 Logan's quarry west of Union ville. Fully three -foui'ths of this 

 area show the underlying rock to be gneiss, schists or sandstone ; 

 the schists and gneisses forming high hills with abundant exposures, 

 and there seems no reason to suppose that limestone underlies more 

 than a fraction of the remaining one-fourth. 



West of the Doe run valley there are no outcrops of hmestone, 

 and indeed, except within a mile or two, very few of any kind, and 

 those of mica schist and gneiss ; but in the southwest part of 

 Highland township, on the limestone road, are two outcrops of 

 limonite iron ore, in former years extensively mined. They are 

 respectively .3 and .9 of a mile nearly south of the Fairview pub- 

 lic school. About half a mile south-southeast of the southerly 

 iron ore outcrop, on the farm of John H. Esbenshade, about a 

 mile nearly east of Cochran ville on the road to Gum Tree, is a sink 



^ First Geol. Survey of Pa., I, 230. Quoted C*, p. 72. 




228 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



hole about 50 x 100 feet, and four or five feet deep in the centre. 

 It seems not improbable that limestone underlies the schists in 

 this vicinity. 



V. HuxTixGDOx Valley. 



The fifth, the limestone of Huntingdon Valley, is the most con- 

 cealed and probably the most limited in extent, but one of the most 

 interesting geologically, for as shown by Mr. Hali'^ it is a very 

 strong argument in favor of the paleozoic age of the Philadelphia 

 schists and gneisses. 



Huntingdon Valley is a sti'aight narrow valley on the southeast 

 side of the ancient gneiss of Buck Ridge. It is crossed by the 

 Pennypack creek and drained by Paul's brook flowing east, and 

 Huntingdon creek west, into the Pennypack. The valley proper 

 extends in a straight line N. 70° E. for about four miles, but it 

 may be traced further east less distinctly. East of the Pennypack 

 creek the Cambrian sandstone intervenes between the limestone and 

 the ancient gneiss, increasing in prominence eastwardly. West of 

 the Pennypack, while there are indications of it in the same rela- 

 tion, they are not beyond doubt. The limestone itself is very 

 obscure. It has been reported in wells and in pits dug for iron 

 ore and by Mr. Hall"^ in the bed of Paul's brook, but the only 

 place I have seen it is in the cellar of an old mill, now a wagon- 

 house on the property of Mr. Penrose Hallowell, who informed me 

 that many years ago there was a quarry in the limestone west of the 

 wagonhouse. He pointed out a (juarry of sandstone about oOO 

 feet northwest from the limestone, not wrought for years. The 

 rock in this quarry resembles the Cambrian sandstone, but it is 

 coarser, more feldspathic, and not as well defined as at Waverly 

 Heights, but in walls of the ^'icinity were slabs of the t}-pical 

 sandstone said to have come from tliis quarry. The sandstone 

 apparently dips southeast, steeply, the limestone 60- southeast, 

 and the spangled mica schist, well exposed 1000 feet southeast, S. 

 30° E. 60°, followed by the wood-like garnetiferous schist, nearly 

 vertical. 



85 c^ p. 62. 

 8« CS p. 67. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 229 



YI. The Limestone of Pocopsin Township, of Logan's 

 Quarry and of Eltsha Bailey's Quarry. 



The first of these outcrops, perhaps, should uot be grouped with 

 the last two, the oulv irrouud for the grouping being their geograph- 

 ical position. Indeed, the first is in geological position nearer that 

 of Huntingdon Valley, lying as it does about half a mile south of 

 tlie ancient gneiss near the extreme western outcrop of the latter. 

 It is in a small valley about .3 mile south of the State road, and 

 about the same distance west of the road leading south from Pocop- 

 fiin Inn to the Red Lion. It has not been wrought for nearly fifty 

 years and now shows nothing but a hollow filled with water from 

 a large spring. There is, however, besides tradition, a quantity of 

 limestone fragments, and a little to the northeast a large sink hole. 

 The limestone is granular and crystalline. It was wrought by 

 James Gawthorp, and is now on the farm of L. 'M. Larkin. It 

 appears to be surrounded by the schists, but no good exposures 

 were seen. About 500 feet north of it is an outcrop of talc 

 schist. 



Four miles nearly due west of this quarry and 1.75 miles X. 

 70- "W. of Unionville is the quarry of Eli Logan. This is still 

 in operation. The dip, omitting one remarkable fold or roll, is 

 quite regular, S. 35^ to 50- E. 30^ to 50^. On the Doe run 

 road, immediately south of the quarry, garnetiferous mica schists 

 dip S. 40- to 50° E. 40° to 50°. About .1 mile west of the 

 quarry, mica schists dip S. 55° E. 70", and about 300 feet further 

 west Cambrian sandstone S. 75° E. 30 ~; this is close to the town- 

 ship line between East and West Marlborough. A httle west of 

 the hue a road goes south to L'pland (Marlborough Inn). On 

 this road the sandstone is well exposed in two outcrops about 

 150 feet apart, with mica schists above, between and below the 

 sandstone, all dipping about S. 40- E. 30'. 



A remarkable feature of Logan' s quarry, unique in the limestone 

 quarries of this region, is the occurrence of a massive rock chiefly 

 of plagioclase feldspar with some quartz, exceedingly tough and 

 hard, containing much tourmaline. This has much the aspect of 

 a sheet of igneous rock. It was observed by Rogers, who sup- 

 posed it to overlie the limestone and to be possibly " a highly 

 altered form of the upper primal slates." It seems to have 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



escaped the notice of the Second Survey. Quarrying, since the 

 date of Rogers' notes, has shown clearly that it is a sheet or vein, 

 apparently parallel with the dip of the limestone. 



S. 50° TV., 1.1 miles from Logan's quarry, is that of Eli S. 

 Bailey, a half mile or less west of Upland. 



This quarry, when in active operation thirty or forty yeare ago, 

 was a famous locality for tremolite, which was found in larger 

 quantity and in better specimens than elsewhere in the State, but 

 almost nothing is showing now. The dip is probably southeast. 

 The strike of the sandstone west and southwest of Logan's would 

 bring it west and northwest of this quarry. It is not exposed 

 nearer than the road north to Upland, but southeast dipping mica 

 schists with considerable quartzite appear to the westwai'd, on 

 the State road. 



VII. The Street Road Limestone. 



The seventh group comprises a series of outcrops (on nearly all 

 of which quarries have been opened) extending in a line about 

 S. 70° W., somewhat curved to the north at the eastern end, and 

 having a total length of thirteen miles. The easternmost exposure 

 is about a quarter of a mile nearly due north of the south corner 

 of Thornbury township, Chester county. It is in very sandy 

 limestone, dipping S. 40° E. 50°. No other fast rock is exposed, 

 but schist fragments are abundant, especially to the southeast. 

 About .25 mile south a schist dips S. 30° E. 30°. A half-mile 

 nearly east and about the same distance southeast tvj^ical Cambrian 

 sandstone outcrops abundantly, dipping at the former X. 35° W. 

 80°, and a little further east S. ± 40° E. 20°, with schists above 

 and below, dipping fi-om 0° to 60° S. E. 



The second outcrop is in Birmingham township, Chester county, 

 about a mile and a c[uarter S. 35° W. of the first, on a smaU 

 stream which empties into the Brandywiue just above Brinton's 

 Bridge. Evidently much rock has been removed, but the quarry 

 is filled with water and mud. Southwest of it a trench was dug 

 for drainage, showing a hard quartz schist, with the unusual dip of 

 N. 60° E. 20° under the limestone. I could see no reason to 

 doubt this dip. 



The third, about .75 mile S. 70° TV. from the second, is on the 

 right bank of the Brandvwine at Brinton's Bridge, about a mile 




1900.] NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 231 



above Chadd's Ford, at Harvey's quarry. Here the limestone 

 and adjacent rocks are well exposed. The latter are schists and 

 gneisses, dipping S. 10° to 40^ E. 25° to 70°. The limestone 

 dips about S. 20° E. 45° under a hard quartzose mica schist, with 

 quartz in serpentine forms, like those seen in the Manayunk 

 schists. The schist as well as the limestone is plicated, one 

 stratum making two 90° bends within a few inches. Under the 

 limestone is a similar schist, less quartzose and finer grained, dip- 

 ping S. 25° E. 25°. 



It is very rare in this region to find a section as good as that 

 afforded by the Brandywiue. It is unfortunate that it does not show 

 the structure more clearly. Prof. Lesley examined it and thought 

 the limestone a tongued anticlinal.*" While this may be the fact, 

 I incline to the opinion that it is interbedded in the gneiss. The 

 limestone of this quarry contains choudrodite, the only occurrence 

 of this mineral in the region so far as I am aware. Dr. Frazer 

 classed this limestone and that of Honeybrook township as Huro- 

 nian or i)erhaps Laurentian.'*"' 



It is not certain whether these outcrops belong strictly to the 

 Street road line about to be described, or to those in the valley to 

 the south followed by the Baltimore Central Railroad, or one or 

 more to each, or whether they constitute an isolated line. AVhen 

 we possess a good topographical map of the region it may be pos- 

 sible to determine. 



About 1.25 miles north of Harvey's quarry the Brandy wine ia 

 crossed by the Street road, which occupies an almost continuous 

 nearly straight depression about S. 60 ° W. from a mile northeast 

 of the southeast corner of Westtown township nearly ten miles to 

 the Red Lion, in East Marlborough. It then bears about S. 80° 

 W. to a point beyond White Clay creek and then about southwest 

 through Oxford. In its vicinity is the line of (|uarries well de- 

 scribed by Rogers under the title " Street Road Limestone Line."" 



" Pt'oc. A. P. S., Vol. VIII, p. 282 ; also C*, p. 239, where a drawing is 

 given. 



^ " Calcaire Huronien. II parait y avoir des examples isoles de oalcaires 

 intercales dans les gneiss et les mica-schistes, im He ces examples se recontre 

 dans le township de Honey Brook comte de Chester, et un autre se trouve 

 sur la Brandywine a une courte distance de Chad's Ford. Dans ce dernier 

 cas il est possible en realite que le gite de calcaire appartienne au Lanren- 

 tian, dont une de? bandes etroites passe ici dans I'aire du Huronien." 

 Memoir sur lageologie de la partie s>id-est de la Fennsylvanie. Lille, 1882. 



8» First Geol. Survey of Pa., I, p. 226. Quoted C*, p. 74. 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



For nearly its whole extent, east of Pocopsin creek, the Street 

 road passes through mica schists, but after passing the creek and 

 Parkerville the schists become very sandy, and near the Red Lion 

 there is abundance of the typical sandstone with mica schists 

 apparently on both sides of it, the dips being to the southeast and 

 moderate. An exposure on the Street road near the schoolhouse 

 .2 mile west of Red Lion, quite satisfactory, gave sandstone S. 

 25° to 27° E. 15° to 50°, with mica schist underlying within 

 twenty feet S. 20° E. 25°, From this point a narrow straight 

 valley trends nearly southwest. A mile and a quarter west of 

 Red Lion, and .1 mile south of the Street road, is a quarry on the 

 land of Barclay Cope, formerly Reynolds' quarry, then on the farm 

 of Jacob Way." The quarry is now full of water, no rock being 

 visible. .75 miles west of this is Taggart's cross-roads, "Willowdale 

 P. O. ; .75 mile west of this, on the farm of Wilham Scarlett, 

 formerly John Baily's, were, as I am informed, several sink holes, 

 now filled up and farmed over. In the Street road, just north of 

 this, the sandstone dips S. 5° E. 15° to 20° very clearly. 

 Close west of the road which bounds this farm on the west are 

 the (juarries of Joseph H. Taylor, followed S. 50° W. from it by 

 quarries of Henry Pusey, one north, the other south of an east- 

 and-west road, at distances respectively of .3 and .6 mile from 

 Taylor's. These quarries are in operation. 



At Taylor's there are two quarries. The eastern, recently 

 abandoned, shows clearly a mica schist containing tourmaline, 

 dipping S. 30° E. 30° immediately southeast of the limestone. 

 The westerly quarry is very close to the former and shows a highly 

 crystalline limestone full of cavities, some water-worn, others not, 

 with occasional quartz crystals in the cavities. From the upper 

 portion the cementing material of the crystalline grains has been 

 removed, leaving a lime sand which is utilized. The dip is south- 

 east, probably less than 10°; overlying is the mica schist, much 

 plicated, with a stratum about eighteen inches wide of tJie typical 

 sandstone, with its rhomboidal jointings, micaceous partings, and 

 stretched tourmalines; apparently the same rock that is dipping 

 toward the limestone, about a half-mile to the northwest. 



Within 500 feet southeast of the Taylor (piarries is a mica schist, 

 dipping S. 50° E. 50°, but including a sharply folded mass of the 

 schist, and a convoluted mass of hard bioiito gneiss. 



•o C*, p. 319. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



Three-tenths of a mile S. 50 - "\V. from the Taylor quarries is 

 an old and large quarry on the farm of Henry Pusey" still 

 -wrought. On its southeast side the limestone dips S. 25^ E. 50° 

 under mica schists, in the northeast corner N. 25° W. 15°. 

 !N'ear the northwest corner sandy mica schist containing touiTualine 

 appears next to the limestone for about twenty feet, and then a 

 hard quartzose stratum of which very little is exposed, N. 35° 

 W 70-. 



Three-tenths of a mile S. 50° W. is the other Pusey quarry. 

 Here the walls are not visible, nor the southeast part of the lime- 

 stone, but on the northwest side the dip is X. 30° W^. 10° to 15°. 

 A peculiarity in this quarry is that the rock is partly blue and 

 partly pure -white, both veiy compact, but the change from one 

 to the other occurs, not in what appear at first sight to be the lines 

 of stratification, but at the joint planes nearly at right angles, 

 which would seem therefore to indicate bedding planes. 



Kegardiug the Taylor quarry and the northerly Pusey quarry, 

 close together as they are, the presence of the sandstone in the 

 former and its apparent total absence in the latter is remarkable. 

 The exposure in the Pusey quarry is unusually good, especially the 

 northwesterly wall, while in the Taylor quarries the southeasterly 

 is best shown. If the dips at Pusey' s are trustworthy we have the 

 summit of an anticlinal, but the curves in the adjacent mica schist 

 suggest caution. Dr. Frazer gives the dip (probably about 1879) 

 as X. 30^ W. 60° on the south face,^' while our observations on the 

 north side agree within 5°. 



About half a mile west is the West ]\Iarlborough township line, 

 and about . 1 mUe west of it a quarry of considerable size on the 

 farm of Chalkley Bartram, formerly Eli Thompson, showing now 

 nothing of interest. The next farm is that of Edward S, Mar- 

 shall, on which there was a considerable quarry. Here sandstone 

 fragments are abundant. The westerly boundary of this farm is 

 the road leading south from Marlborough Inn (Upland) to Tough- 

 kenamon, being also at this point the west line of the tongue of 

 West Marlborough, which projects southward. About a mile 

 north of the limestone here, the sandstone is very well shown in 

 large quantity, being the most extensive outcrop south of the North 



" C*, p. 312. 

 «^ CS p. 312. 




234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Valley Hill. Its best exposure is on the road from London Grove 

 Post-office to Chatham, at distances of .25 and .5 mile southeast of 

 London Grove, the former a quarry in the typical rock, overlaid by 

 sandy mica schist, both dipping S. 35° E. 30^, the latter exposures 

 on the road showing the sandstone underlaid by mica schist, S. 25° 

 E. 30° to 60°. 



On the west side of the road from Upland to Toughkenamon, 

 about .2 mile north of the north line of New Garden township, is 

 a limestone quarry on the farm of Joseph Sharpless, formerly 

 Ephraim Wilson, and another a little further west on that of 

 Benjamin Swayne. The latter shows a dip of S. 35° E. 15° to 40°. 



About a mile west-southwest of Swayne' s is a quarr}^ on the 

 farm of Francis W. Hicks, formerly Elias Hicks, and a mile fur- 

 ther in the same direction a very extensive one on the farm of 

 Aaron Baker, known as Baker's, subsequently as the Acme quarry, 

 and more recently wrought by the Avondale Marble Company. 

 Originally this quarry was wrought for lime for building and agri- 

 cultural purposes, but the decline of this industry impelled the 

 owners to put down diamond drill holes. The cores obtained 

 showed a good quality of marble. A large plant was erected and 

 now for some years excellent building marble has been obtained in 

 large blocks. The inferior grades are readily split, with little 

 waste, into rectangular blocks, which find a market. The marble 

 at the north end of the present excavation is about seventy feet 

 below the surface, and it dips nearly S. about 20°. Overlying it 

 is a mica schist of great compactness which was quarried out in 

 large blocks and is used for retaining walls, foundations, etc. 



The limestone of this quarry shows plications, but there is evi- 

 dently a gentle southerly dip throughout, except near the south 

 end Avhere the limestone dips N. 25° W. 25° and abuts against 

 mica schist, dipping S. 40° E. 45°, the contact (a thrust fault ?) 

 being well shown in the railroad cut, nearly under the office. 



Near the middle of the west side of the quarry is a stratum of 

 limestone containing much tromolite, phlogopite and quartz, 

 minutely disseminated, forming a very hard rock, sold as '' gran- 

 ite," and apparently in demand. 



A short distance soutli of the marble quarry, on the Jacobs 

 farm, close to Baker Station, schistose gneiss, some of it with feld- 

 spar porphyritically enclosed, dips S. 35° to 40° E. 50' to 55°. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 235 



A little over a mile, a little south of west of the Acme quarry, 

 is one of large size, but abandoned for years. This is the Levis 

 Bernard quarry, with a dip of S. 62° E. 20° in the most regular 

 portion, but the limestone is much plicated. This is the most 

 western quarry in this line and is that mentioned by Rogers as the 

 most westerly quarry. ^^ 



South of the Street road line at its westerly end, that is south of 

 the Benjamin Swayne, Elias Hicks, Avondale Marble and L. Ber- 

 nard quarries, there are several outcrops of limestone which will 

 be discussed after the consideration of the next belt to the south. 



VIII. The Kennett Limestone. 



At about two miles south of the Street road line there is, west 

 of the Brandywine but not far east of it, a valley even better 

 defined than that of the Street road. This has been taken advan- 

 tage of by the Baltimore Central Railroad, which, descending 

 rapidly from Brandywine Summit to the Brandywine^* (from 273 

 above tide to 129 above tide in three miles), crosses the watersheds 

 between that stream and the branches of Red Clay and the east 

 branch of White Clay creek, with a rise of but 183 feet, while the 

 hills to the north and south are from 50 feet to probably 175 feet 

 higher. At intervals in the bottom of this valley outcrops of 

 limestone appear. The easternmost exposure is at Mendenhall's 

 quarry, in Pennsbury township, about 1.2 miles west of the Bran- 

 dywine. At the quarry almost nothing is now visible, but one 

 apparently clear dip in the limestone was S. 60° E. 20° About 

 .2 mile east of this, hence over it, was a coarse mica schist with 

 much mica in distinct cleavages, with pegmatite and porphyritic 

 feldspar and quartz, dipping S. 25° E. 20°. Westward there are 

 no exposures near. 



About two miles from the Brandywine is FairviUe Station. A 

 half-mile north- northwest of it is a quarry in hard schistose gneiss, 

 dipping nearly S. ± 40°, and about the same distance, west by 

 south, in a cut of the railroad, S. 20° to 40° E. 60° to 80°, while 

 to the south of the railroad are large quarries of feldspar in a 

 coarse pegmatite. 



83 First Geol. Survey of Pa., I, p. 227. Quoted C*, p. 75. 

 ^ These are from table 141, '• Levels above Tide," N., p. 158, but by my 

 observations by barometer are about 50' too low. 




236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



About three miles west of the Mendenhall quarry, and about 

 1.25 miles nearly east of Kennett Square, is the Sharpless quarrj'. 

 The greater part of this quarry, which has yielded a large amount 

 of limestone, is under water, so that a measurement could be 

 had atone point only, giving E. 10°; .3 mile northwest, a sandy 

 feldspathic mica schist dips S. 25° E. 25°, while a half-mile 

 northeast there is a decomposed very sandy schist, with feldspathic 

 and quartzite layers and rhombic fracture very closely resembling 

 the typical Cambrian sandstone, dipping S. 10° W. 30° or 

 toward the limestone. From this vicinity westward the same 

 sandstone appears to bound the valley on the north wherever the 

 rock is well exposed as far as West Grove, ®° except for a 

 short distance near Avondale where a gneissoid mica schist, 

 containing garnets and tourmaline, forms the north hill, known in 

 a large part of its coui*se as the Toughkenamon hill. This rock 

 seems to underlie the sandy schist and to form the greater part of 

 this hill. It is fire-resisting and has been much used for lining 

 limekilns and is called, locally, firestone. 



The southerly hill, for about four miles at least, contains a very 

 hard compact hornblende gneiss with nearly vertical dips, not 

 improbably an altered intrusive rock. Xear it are indications of 

 mica schist, but no clear outcrops, the hornblende rock being the 

 chief rock visible, but, except southeast of Kennett Square, it 

 appears in large loose masses only. 



One mile west of Kennett Square Station, and just east of the 

 western line of New London lownship, close to the right l>ank of 

 the Avest branch of Red Clay creek, is Joseph A. ]\IcFarlan's 

 quarry. This is of large size and is wrought at present in a small 

 way for building stone. A spring of considerable volume rises in 

 the (]uarry. The rock is a pale blue and white limestone, very 

 compact. Two dips about 600 feet apart were S. 20°. North of 

 the quarry are no exposures, to the south ± 700 feet thei*e is a 

 hill of some fifty feet in height of mica schist and schistose gneiss, 

 striking north to N, 30^ E. and dipping about 70^ "NV. to N. 60^ 

 W. , or toward the limestone. 



Half a mile a little north of west of McFarlan's quarry was 

 one on the west branch of Red Clay creek, north of the railroad. 



'^ That is, if the valley in which is West Grove l>e the coutiuviatiou of that 

 under consideration. This will be further discussed. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 237 



It is wholly overgrown. A quarter of a mile nearly west of this 

 is a quarry on the State road, showing a jointed very sandy mica 

 schist, dipping S. 33° E. 35°. This is .2 mile northeast of Tough- 

 kenamon Station. On the Newark road, about ,2 mile north of 

 Toughkenamon, similar schists are exposed near the schoolhouse, 

 dipping nearly 0° at the north part of the exposure then steep north- 

 erly, while toward the south they dip ± 70° ± S. 45° E. 



About .6 mile, a httle south of west of Toughkenamon, was the 

 Roberts' limestone quarry, now of Mr. Sharpless. The dip in 

 this is S. 33° E. 35°. 



Three-quarters of a mile west of this quarry is Avondale, and 

 the apparent ending topographically of the valley which w'e have 

 followed from the Brandywme. Here the high northern hill is 

 cut by White Clay creek, of which the two northerly branches, one 

 flowing nearly south, the other southeast, unite in this gap. 



Nearly in line with the quarries mentioned and about two 

 hundred yards south-southwest of Avondale Station is a quarry, 

 now full of water, but with the limestone walls still in evidence. 

 This quarry is the most interesting of the region if, as seems prob- 

 able, it is that in which Dr. Frazer found, adjoining the limestone, 

 the sandstone containing Scolithus.^^ 



This is the westernmost quarry certainly of this series. A little 

 more than a mile to the north is the Street road line of quarries ; 

 hence the two are closer than at the Brandywine. Between the 

 two and to the westward are a number of limestone outcrops 

 briefly referred to before, but worthy of detailed description. 

 They, and the western part of the Street road line and the Watson 

 & Jones' quarry, are within a parallelogram less than two miles 

 from north to south and three miles from east to west, with Avon- 

 dale in the southeast and West Grove in the southwest corner. 

 From Avondale radiate three prominent hills of mica schist and 

 gneiss: 



1. Eastward the Toughkenamon hill, practically continuous to 

 the Brandywine. 



*® C*, p. 333 and p. 324. The quarry is on the land of Watson & Jones, 

 but is not lar from the John Williamson property, and is on the road lead- 

 ing south. At present no sandstone is visible. The limestone dips nearly 

 west about 30^. Northeast of it and within 30' is a hard gneiss dipping 

 with and under the limestone. Dr. Frazer's dips for the sandstone were 

 " W. 2QO N., W. 10^ N. to W. 10° S. with a dip of about 280," and for the 

 limestone " W. 10^ N. 40°." 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



2. Westward a hill of mica schist, gneiss and pegmatite convex 

 to the north, bounded northward by the westerly branch of the 

 east branch of "White Clay creek, 



3. Northwestward the hill on which much of Avondale is built, 

 and along which the Gap and Newport pike runs. 



The eastern line of the parallelogram is nearly the eastern 

 line of New London township, and is occupied by the rather flat 

 nearly north-and-south valley of the northerly branch of the east 

 branch of White Clay creek. In this valley, and near the creek, 

 are outcrops seemingly connecting the Street road and Kennett 

 series. To the north is the Benjamin Swayne quarry of the 

 Street road series, S. 35-^ E. 15° to 40°, and half a mile south of 

 it, on the bank of the creek, an outcrop S. 50° E. 30", the 

 former just north of the northwest corner of New Garden town- 

 ship. A quarter of a mile further south is the quarry of Joseph 

 Quarll, in which the limestone dips nearly S, ± 15° on the south 

 side, nearly 0° on the north side, and N. d= 10° on the west side; 

 no adjacent rock is visible. A half-mile south-southeast are three 

 quarries close together, the northerly one wrought chiefly for a 

 lime sand, or highly crystalline limestone or marble altered by 

 partial decomposition, by which the cohesion of the grains has been 

 destroyed. This sand is used largely by florists for propagating 

 purposes, and is said to be superior for that use. Some of the 

 limestone under the sand is highly crystalline and pure white, a 

 true marble. It is wrought by Michael Murphy. The dip is 

 about S. 20° E. 20° About 200 feet south of this is AVatsou's 

 quarry, a very impure limestone in large solid blocks, used, I 

 was informed, for building purposes, and not for Jime. The only 

 exposures are on the south side, due S. 40° and S. 20° E. 25°, 

 S. 65° E. 10°. As before, high hills, apparently wholly of mica 

 schist and gneiss, are to the east and west. Seven-tenths mile 

 south-southeast of this, mica schist and gneiss dipping S. 30° E. 

 15° to 50° intervening, we have the limestone of the quarry on 

 property of Watson tfe Jones, seemingly of the Kennett series, 

 already mentioned. As already stated, all these six outcrops are 

 in a line almost due north and south, and within the space of a 

 little over one mile. 



To the westward and near the north line of our parallelogram 

 are the quames, already described, of the Avondale Mai'ble Co. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 239 



and of Reuben Barnard. South of the latter is a high hill of 

 garnetiferous mica schist, south of which are two quarries, both 

 known as Storey's, one on each side of the road leading north from 

 West Grove to Barnard's quarry. They lie in a small east-and- 

 west valley on an affluent of the west branch of vhe East Branch 

 of White Clay creek. The eastern is quite small; it shows a 

 dip of K 45° W. 65°. The western, though larger, is but a 

 small quariy compared with most of those of the region ; it shows, 

 however, a distinct anticlinal structure, dipping on the southeast 

 side S. 30° E. 30°, at the west end about the same, and on the 

 northwest side N. 60° W. 65° within twenty feet of the moderate 

 southeast dip, the intervening space being concealed by talus. 



On the northerly side a 'small spring issues from the limestone, 

 the water bearing with it at the time of my visits a continuous 

 stream of lime sand. 



North of the Storey quarries and separating them from the 

 Barnard quarry, the westernmost of the Street road line, is the 

 hill of mica schist above mentioned, somewhat garnetiferous, on 

 the north slope of which, near the foot, is an insignificant outcrop 

 of the sandstone, loose fragments only, but apparently in place. 

 The mica schist is decomposed at the surface, and I was unable to 

 find any satisfactory dips. Dr. Frazer, however, writes of this 

 hill as one " in which the chloritic mica schists lie almost flat, or 

 with very small angles of dip. These schists seem to be similar 



to those in and below the South Valley Hill Without 



some change of structure which surface indications offer no right to 

 suppose, there is here a limestone synclinal holding a hill of 

 chloritic mica schists. 



"On the south side of the West Grove quarry'" the dip is S. 30° 

 E. 30°, showing that it has been opened on an anticlinal which is, 

 however, of very insignificant breadth as the sand rock (Potsdam) 

 curves in a few hundred yards below it with a dip of W. 10° N., 

 raising the calcareous beds beyond our present surface.'"* 



It is much to be regretted that the outcrops here are so few and 

 poor. Dr. Frazer' s interpretation may be correct, but the small 

 outcrop of the sandstone on the Chatham road southeast of Lewis 

 Barnard's quarry and the gentle southeast dipping outcrops to the 



'^ Probably the westerly Storey quarry. 

 •8 CS p. 332. 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



southeast of the Storey quarry are difficulties. The decomposing 

 garnetiferous mica schists of the hill between Barnard's and Storey's 

 do not appear to me to resemble in the slightest degree the hydromica 

 schists of the South Valley Hill, but more to resemble the mica 

 schists lying to the southward of the hydromica, and clearly over- 

 lying the limestone of the Poorhouse quarry and of the quarries 

 on the right bank of the East Branch of White Clay creek. The 

 westerly Storey quarry certainly exhibits an anticlinal structure, 

 as Dr. Frazer observes, " of insignificant breadth." The dip of 

 the sandstone W. 10^ N. I did not observe. About .3 mile south- 

 east of the quarry there is a quarry in the sandstone giving an 

 excellent exposure and a dip of S. 50° E. 20°. A quarry in 

 similar rock but harder .25 mile to the eastward dips S. 35° E. 

 30°. The sandstone forms a hill about a hundred feet in height 

 between the Storey quarries and the very extensive quarries of the 

 Avondale Lime and Stone Co., formerly Hughes quarries, on the 

 right bank of the East Branch of AVhite Clay creek, about a mile 

 west-northwest of Avondale and about a mile east of the Storey 

 quarries. Here the limestone has a varying but very gentle south- 

 erly dip, probably averaging S. 10° to 20°, and is overlaid by 

 garnetiferous mica schists conformably. The rock is highly crys- 

 talline with interstratified beds of mica schist. It has been 

 wrought to a depth of over one hundred feet. 



Although the limestone of this (juarry seems to have throughout a 

 regular very gentle southerly dip, evidence of peculiar folding is seen, 

 as shown in the annexed photograph taken by Mr. George Vaux, 

 Jr., a view of a small part of the south wall of the quarry. Here, 

 although the stratum has nearly horizontal surfaces on this sec- 

 tion, there is a complete fold within tlie stratum which was about 

 three feet in width. 



In this quarry is a stratum which contains masses of ijuartz of 

 lenticular form, as if flattened pebbles. These have a coating of 

 damourite, and have sharply defineil parallel partings, also coated 

 with damourite. A variety of this (piartz was uncovered in 1897, 

 partially filling what had evidently been a crevice dipping south- 

 wardly about 45°. The aspect of the quartz was exactly as if it 

 had been a viscid substance like asphalt, flowing over an etige 

 down a slope, forming masses like flattened stalactites, joined at 

 the top only. They were a foot and less in length, about a half- 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



inch thick at the thickest part, aud from an inch to three or four 

 inches wide, all tapering downwards. All had a thin coating of 

 damourite except at the top. 



Fig. 2. — Fold in Limestoue Quarry, oue mile W. X. W. of Avondale. 



On both sides of the Hughes quarries are outcrops of coarse 

 pegmatite, that to the eastward being in contact with the limestone 

 striking nearly northeast aud southwest ; just north of it schists 

 dip S. 40° E. 63° ; that to the westward is less than .1 mile dis- 

 tant from the westernmost quarrV; and strikes X. 30° E. The 

 northerly hill, which the Gap aud Newport pike ascends north- 

 west from Avondale, is of gametiferous mica schist, in part at 

 least. Southwest of this on this line no sandstone has been ob- 

 served, but the valley continues. 



Prof. Rogers construed these limestones as forks of the Street 

 road line, seeing it divide westward into " three subordinate nar- 

 16 




242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



rower valleys, all of them containing limestone more or less ■ con- 

 tinuously, and all of them ending westward in the vicinity of 

 West Grove Friends' Meeting-house.'"" 



While this may be the structure, including in the northerly sub- 

 ordinate valley the marble quarry and Barnard's, in the middle 

 Quarll's and Storey's, and in the southerly the Avondale Lime 

 and Stone Co.'s, it cannot include the quarries south of Quarll's. 

 Moreover, as we have north of the Street road line a wide and 

 persistent outcrop of the Cambrian sandstone, we should find 

 more of it to the south than the small outcrops south of Barnard's 

 and southeast of the Storey quarries. 



IX. The Limestone of Nevins' Quarries. 



The southern portion of Xew Garden township, Chester 

 county, is a triangle, bounded eastwardly by the curved portion of 

 Mason and Dixon's line (twelve miles from New Castle as a cen- 

 tre). Here and to the westward, in London Britain township, we 

 find the most southerly Chester county outcrops of limestone, 

 ranging in a general east-northeast and west-southwest direction 

 in Broad Valley drained by Broad run, an affluent of White Clay 

 creek. There are four quarries in Pennsylvania and one in Dela- 

 ware. The latter is Jackson's quarry, near Hockessin Station on 

 the Delaware & Western Railroad, near extensive kaolin mines. 

 It is a highly crystalline limestone, but now shows nothing of the 

 adjacent rocks. *'"' 



East-northeast of this limestone, among the schists and gneisses 

 of southwestern Delaware county, in Birmingham township, is a 

 single outcrop of limestone mentioned by Mr. Hall,*" though rep- 

 resented on his map as serpentine. It was known as Bullock's 

 quarry and, as I am informed by Mr. T. E. Bullock, was wrought 

 by his grandfather, Thomas H. Bullock, fifty or sixty years ago 

 and burned into lime on the spot. Kaolin was afterwards mined 

 close to it and the outcrop oblitei'ated. It is one mile west-north- 

 west of Elam, about two miles from the Brandywine and one and 



9» First Oeol. Survey, I, p. 226. Quoted C*, p. 74. 



100 "The magnesian marble Avhich outcrops .... at Xeviu's runs into 

 Delaware, and appears at the surface in the Jackson quarry at Hocke-ssin. 

 Here the rock forms a clearly defined anticlinal fold; .... the limestone is 

 overlaid by the mica schists.'' F. D. Chester, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci., 1884, 

 p. 248. 



*"' C^ p. 47. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 248. 



three-quarters from the Delaware line. It does not fall in line 

 with any of the nearby outcrops, being south of the Kennett line 

 and of the outcrops near Briuton's bridge. About two miles 

 nearly west of Jackson's quarry, near Broad Run Station, is the 

 quarry of David M. Brown, with a dip S. 60° E. 25°, Avith some 

 gentle waves. 



About a mile and a half west of the Brown quarry limestone 

 outcrops in the road, and a little west of this, east of the East 

 Branch of AVhite Clay creek, an affluent of the Christiana, is the 

 David Nevin's quarry, or Septimus Nevin's, showing a dip on the 

 south and west sides quite regular S, 25° E. 25°, while on the 

 northwest side the exposure was poor, but dip apparently nearly 

 0° to 10° S. E. 



Of this quarry Prof. Rogers wrote as follows, these quarries then 

 being in active operation: " D. Nevin's quarry, on the east side 

 of the East Branch of White Clay creek. The strata dip at a 

 gentle angle southeastward, and a low anticlinal undulation, or 

 saddle, lifts the talcose slates underlying the limestone to the bed 



of the quarry The limestone is overlaid by the ordinary 



very micaceous rock dipping on the south side of the quarry gently 

 south, and there is a dyke of granite at the south margin. ' ' '°- 



West-southwest of David Nevin's is one of Edward Sharpless, 

 now showing no good exposures, and in the same direction about 

 three-quarters of a mile from the former are two closely adjacent 

 quarries of John Nevin ; of these the easterly gives excellent ex- 

 posures. On the northwest side the dip is N. 50° W. 25° with 

 mica schist and gneiss overlying apparently conformably, on the 

 southeast sideS. 50° E. 10°, on the northwest side at the northeast 

 end N. 60° W. 40°, becoming more gentle toward the middle to 

 0°, then debris conceals the following probably southeast dip."^ 



^^ Geol. Survey of Pa., Vol. I, p. 225. 



^"* Of this quarry Prof. Rogers wrote : "An anticlinal axis runs through 

 the quarry about N. 60- E. On the north side of this saddle the dip is 

 about 45° under a micaceous gneissic- looking rock. The dip on the south 

 side is to the south about 30°." Vol. I, p. 225. 



Of one of the quarries, but which one is not clear, Dr. Frazer writes : " At 

 Nevin's quarry the limestone dips W. 10° N. 10° to 20° in the middle 

 portion of the quarry and steep at the extremities, which, compared with the 

 southeasterly dip of the quarries in New Garden and just within the north- 

 east border of London Britain (which latter is dr S. ± 20)" (probably 

 the David Nevin's quarry — T. D. R. ) "compel one to regard the structure 

 here as an anticlinal of limestone though one of very gentle dips. ... A 




244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



I was able to fiad no rock closely adjacent to the limestone on 

 the southeast side ; on the northwest the rock clearly is not the sand- 

 stone, but mica schist and gneiss. One dip on the Delaware & 

 Western Railroad (or Wilmington & Landenberg Railroad), nearly 

 a mile west of the Brown quarry and .2 mile northwest of lime- 

 stone exposed near the Nevin's quarries, was S. 60° E. 30° to 

 60° in decomposing mica schists. 



About tliree miles nearly south of the Nevin's quarries and near 

 Peach's kaolin mines, in New Castle county, Del., is a series of 

 large quarries, known as Eastburn's, on the easterly slope of a 

 hill, two on the east and two on the west of the road to Newark, 

 Del. Unlike the Chester county outcrops, these four quarries are 

 nearly on the line of dip : two of them are quite extensive. The 

 limestone is much plicated. Overlying the southeast quarry on the 

 southeast side are fragments of mica schist and pegmatite. The 

 north wall of this quarry is a mica schist dipping N. 65° W. 65°, 

 but northwest of this and within 200 feet is the next quarry with 

 limestone dipping S. 40° to 50° E. 20°, with no rock exposed 

 except the limestone and schist fragments. No sandstone was 

 observed, except in indistinct fragments, one of wliich contained 

 rutile. 



X. Outcrops in Northern Chester County. 



In northwestern Chester county we have successive outcrops of 

 the sandstone with adjacent beds of limestone, most of them very 

 clear, but one obscure and with resemblance to those south of the 

 valley. In the north is the great sandstone outcrop of the Welsh 

 mountain, with the Lancaster Valley limestone northwest of it. 

 Going southward the limestone does not appear south of the sand- 

 stone, but a very hard gneiss, like the ancient gneiss, with dykes 

 of igneous rock. South of this is a valley with limestone near the 

 southerly edge of Honeybrook township, followed by the prominent 



mass of quartz sand rock and quartzite fragments underlies this limestone to 

 the southeast coming in from the State of Delaware." C, p. 327. 



Dr. Frazer does not exphiin how this is possible in view of the anticlinal 

 structure and gentle southerly dips on the southerly side. On the map in 

 C* an area of sandstone ( Potsdam ) is shown nearly surrounding the^se out- 

 crops. Prof. Chester, however, states that in the northwest part of l>elaware 

 a coarse quartzose rock underlies highly crystalline niaguesiau marble which 

 must be referred to Potsdam and Calciferous. F. D. Chester, Froc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci., 1884, p. 239. 




1900.1 NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



Baron ridge of the sandstone, ex:tending unbroken from Lancaster 

 county to a point east of the East Branch of the Brandywine in 

 Wallace township. South of this, in the western part of West 

 Cain township, is the easterly end of the limestone of the Pequea 

 \^alley. South of it is another prominent ridge of sandstone, 

 probably connected with that of the Baron ridge close to the Lan- 

 caster border, but giving place to gneiss in the valley of Birch 

 run. This ridge of sandstone, much smaller than that of the Baron 

 ridge, reaches but apparently does not cross the West Branch of 

 the Brandywine north of Wagontown, its easternmost outcrop being 

 on the Brubaker farm just north of a steatite outcrop, an old 

 Indian quarry. South of this is gneiss and then the sandstone of 

 the North Valley Hill. The sandstone, as usual, forms high 

 nearly straight ridges. Gneiss appears in the intermediate valleys. 

 Possibly there is limestone in these valleys, for that in the valley 

 in the south part of Honeybrook was exposed in one quarry only, 

 aud is now invisible. 



There are outcrops of limestoue in Chester county east of the 

 Brandywine, but none of any magnitude. Thirty to fifty years 

 ago when lime was in demand for farming purposes, it was the 

 custom of farmers near limestone outcrops to have kilns of their 

 own. Wood was abundant, and in winter labor also. By this 

 means every outcrop was quarried, the hauling being one of the 

 most serious items of expense. All this being changed the quar- 

 ries have been abandoned, filled up and grown over and even forgot- 

 ten by the present generation. While this is true of outcrops in 

 many parts of Chester county, it is particularly true of those in 

 the section now under consideration, the outcrops having been 

 mostiy in low ground and small in size. Xothiug, therefore, can 

 be added to Prof. Rogers' descriptions, made when most of the 

 outcrops were wrought. He describes ten in Charlestown, East 

 Pikeland, West Pikeland, East (West?) Vincent, South Coven- 

 try, Xantmeal, Warwick and Uwchlan townships, "^ 



In discussing the relation of these rocks it may be useful, first, 

 to sum up the facts that seem to be beyond question: 



(1) The peculiar sandstone is below the limestone of the Ches- 

 ter Valley. 



(2) Mica schists occur between the two. 



10* Oeol. Survey of Pa., I, p. 231. Quoted C*, p. 82. 




246 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



(3) All the limestone outcrops south of the Chester Valley are 

 among schists and gneisses which appear to cover by far the greater 

 part of the area, the dips being almost invariably to the southeast 

 and not steep, 



(4) Some of these schists are very sandy and not infrequently 

 include strata of the peculiar sandstone. 



(5) Nearly every line of limestone outcrops has adjacent to it 

 outcrops of the sandstone, usually on the northwest side, with mica 

 schists usually intervening. 



(6) At no locality (except one in the Doe Run Valley) do we 

 find, with satisfactory clearness, an orderly succession of rocks, 

 making an undoubted synclinal or anticlinal. 



(7) At several of the localities south of the Chester Valley mica 

 schists, sometimes garnetiferous, overlie the limestone conformably 

 and clearly. 



There is no lithological evidence of the identity of the limestone 

 of the different outcrops. The variation in this rock is so great 

 that even in the same quarry the most diverse characters may be 

 found. The opposite, however, is true of the sandstone. It has 

 a very peculiar and well-marked character in its rhomboidal joint- 

 ings, its micaceous; partings, and its stretched and broken tour- 

 malines. While it must be admitted that lithological evidence is 

 of little weight in determining the age of a rock, yet when the 

 lithological character is so well defined and wlien, in addition, the 

 close association with the limestone is marked, together with the 

 fact that the outcrops are not widely separated, the evidence of 

 identity of age is not weak. But if the sandstone is of one age, it 

 seems difiicult to believe the limestone which seems to accompany 

 it so closely is not of the same age as that which overlies the sand- 

 stone of the North Valley Hill, uuless, indeed, there is one lime- 

 stone just below and another just above the sandstone with mica 

 schists intervening. Of this the only evidence is Taylor's quarry, 

 and that is very meagre. The sequence of rocks at nearly all the 

 localities would be satisfied by southeast dipping sandstone over- 

 laid by schists and they by limestone and it by schists, and this 

 longitudinally faulted, but as the succession is at least eight times 

 repeated such explanation is not satisfactory. EtjuaUy does a suc- 

 cession of anticlinals and svnclinals fail, for surelv we could not 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 247 



then have so uniform gentle southeast dips and we should have a 

 more orderly succession. 



A curious feature is the westerly ending of several of these lines 

 in north-and-south limestone valleys — thus the Chester Valley in 

 the valley of Big Beaver creek; the Cream Valley-Poorhouse- 

 Embreeville- Guest line in the Doe Run Valley; the Street road 

 and the Kennett lines in the valley of the East Branch of White 

 Clay creek. Another feature is that in all these north-and-south 

 valleys the dip of the limestone is much less steep than that of the 

 other outcrops and of the adjacent schists. These taken alone 

 would indicate flat synclinals of which the axes rise westwardly. 



When, however, we attempt to fit any theory to the facts, we 

 find constantly one or more stubborn ones which block the path. 



Taking the second and third series, those of Chester Valley and 

 of Cream Valley, the facts all agree perfectly with a synclinal 

 structure, both legs of the sandstone and limestone appearing with 

 the hydromica in the middle, the rock which is wholly sandstone 

 on the north being only partially so on the south and largely mica 

 schists, but with enough of the peculiar sandstone to identify it 

 clearly. However, when we trace westward what appear to be the 

 same strata we find the sandstone among similar schists to the 

 northwest of the limestone instead of to the southeast."* Again, 

 along and north of the Street road line the sandstone is very well 

 shown for a distance of eight miles ueai-ly continuously, with first 

 schists and then schists and limestone overlying, but in Taylor's 

 quarry in this series the sandstone appears interbedded in the 

 schists overlying the limestone. It is true that it is but eighteen 

 inches thick, and is visible in but one small quarry and is not 

 shown in a much larger one only about .3 mile south-southwest. 



If Dr. Frazer's conclusion is correct that the limestone of Bar- 

 nard's and Storey's quarries are opposing legs of a synclinal, the 

 hill of schists between overlying, then the hill to the south, 

 whether it be regarded as the continuation of the Toughkenamon 

 hill or as an independent ridge, must represent the London Grove 

 sandstone. Dr. Frazer"^ gives a dip in the sandstone of W. 10° 

 K. (N. 80° W. ), which would be in accord, but, as above stated, 

 there are quarries in this narrow hill giving excellent exposures 



'"^ Poorhouse quarry ; Guest quarry, 

 ^"o C\ p. 332. 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



with gentle dips to the southeast, according with the dips of the 

 limestone further southeast. 



The Hydromica Schist. 



For these schists I prefer to retain Prof. Dana's name, although 

 not free from the objection that the mica is j^robably not more 

 hydrous than that of those known as mica schists. The term 

 talc-mica is certainly incorrect. In them I include only the soft 

 micaceous schists such as are everywhere to be seen on the northerly 

 slope of the South (Chester) Valley Hill. 



This rock is composed of minute scales of mica, perhaps damour- 

 ite, with quartz. With rare exceptions it is soft and, on the 

 broader surfaces at least, unctuous to the touch. "When almost 

 fi'ee from quartz, it forms a rock so ductile that the blow of a 

 hammer upon a mass will not break it, but simply indent it, or 

 if not too thick make a hole. Strata of this variety occur of 

 considerable thickness, but more commouly much quartz occurs 

 with it, usually in lenticular masses, the quartz more or less cellu- 

 lar and rusty, the surface of the quartz coated with closely adher- 

 ent mica. Rarely the quartz occurs in beds of one to three feet in 

 thickness. It forms the whole of the hill from its beginning near 

 Marble Hall, Montgomery county, to East Goshen township, 

 Chester county, except the comparatively small space occupied by 

 the Conshohocken trap dyke. As far west as Wayne the hill is 

 very well defined on its southern slope, as it is throughout its whole 

 extent (except at its extreme eastern end) on its northern. West 

 of Wayne no distinct valley separates it from the mica schists 

 which border it on the south aud which here begin to widen out. 

 North of Radnor Station it is less than a thousand feet north of the 

 ancient gneiss, aud at Wayne but little more, while twenty miles 

 to the westward, between the two branches of the Brandywiue, 

 over two miles of mica schists, etc., intervene.^"' In occasional 



'"' In the Final Report it is stated : " The South Valley Hill hydromica 

 schist belt from the Delaware Chester county line Avest to the Brandywine 

 has a south border fairly defined by a straij^lit range of serpentine outorops 

 and limestone qirarries. " As more fully shown elsewhere, a triangle of 

 mica schist, with inclnded gneiss, and carrying garnets, kyaiiite and stauro- 

 lite, intervenes. On the IVlaware-Chester county line ^ Devon) no rock is 

 visible between the serpentine and the hydromica, but to the westwaixl as 

 well as to the eastward the schists and gneisses intervene, increasing in 

 width we^twardly to nearly three-quarters of a mile at the East Branch of 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 249 



beds there is a highly quartzose variety coutaiuing little mica, but 

 still enough to make it distinctly a schist. 



These rocks are usually olive-green in color, weathering to yellow 

 and red, and rarely to purple tints. 



A curious error in regard to these rocks has been remarkably 

 perpetuated. When Prof. Rogers wrote, they were known as 

 talcose schists, the distinction between talc and damourite, etc., 

 being hardly recognized, but when that distinction was made clear 

 these rocks were shown to be not talcose at all, being destitute, or 

 nearly so, of magnesia."' Xotwithstanding this they are termed 

 talc schists repeatedly in the volumes of the Second Geological Sur- 

 vey, and chloritic schists and chloritic mica schists by Dr. Frazer.'"' 



The following analyses of true chlorite schists and of these 

 hydromica schists by Dr. Genth are instructive : 



1. Talcose chlorite slate. Prince's quarry, near Lafayette (Mont- 

 gomery county. Pa.). C*, 128. 



2. Chlorite slate from the same. C^ 130. 



3. Chlorite mineral, Rose's quarry. C, 130.'" 



4. Hydromica schist from road between Gulf Mill and Hitner's 

 marble quarry. C^ 132. 



5. Ferruginous hydromica schist between Gulf Mills and King 

 of Prussia. C^ 133. 



6. " Hydromica slate 1222 feet from Bird-in-Hand tavern on 

 road Gulf Mills to Bryn Mawr." C^ 133. (This therefore is 

 from in the Gulf.— T. D. R.) 



the Brandy wine, where much of the rock is heavy-bedded and hard and very 

 different from the hydromica schists. 

 ">« Dr. Frazer, Am. mit., Oct., 1883, p. 1021. 



109 C*, p. 103 ; Journal Franklin Inst., AprU, 1884, C*, pp. 284, 292, 297, 

 304. etc. 



"° A serpentine quarry on the west bank of the Schuvlkill just above 

 Lafayette.— T. D. E. 




250 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1900. 



Chlorite Schist. Hydromica Schist. 



Loss by ignition, 



Silicic acid, . 



Titanic acid, 



Phosphoric acid, 



Alumina, 



Ferrous oxide, . 



Ferric oxide. 



Magnesia, 



Lime, 



Soda, .... 



Potash, . 



Lithia, 



Ni.O., . . . 



1 



9.07 



41.80 



.52 



trace 



10.39 



7.29 



26.71 



3.89 



.27 



.06 



100. 



2 

 12.60 



32.78 



17.53 

 3.90 

 1.31 



31.56 



3 



12.88 

 39.39 



5.07 



3.25 



4.69 



34.34 



trace 



4 



7.52 



43.81 



3.78 



.13 



27.52 



trace 



7.30 



1.77 



.19 



.56 



8.81 



trace 



5 



5.91 

 43.10 



3.28 

 trace 

 30.86 



7.28 

 1.80 



.66 

 6.87 



6 



6.05 



39.35 



1.20 



.49 



31.92 



9. 



2.19 

 3.08 



1.98 

 5.26 



.06 



99.68 99.62 101.39 99.76100.58 



My observations lead me to the conclusion that throughout nearly 

 the whole of their course, from the Schuylkill on the east to far 

 beyond the Octorara on the west, there is not the slightest diffi- 

 culty in distinguishing the line between the hydromica and the 

 mica schist on the south of it, except that often the margin is 

 concealed by the decomposition of the rocks, as usual in this region. 

 It is, however, quite as well defined as any of the margins except 

 those of the ancient gneiss and the serpentines. 



In the mica schists which are south of the hydromica, talc schists 

 and probably chlorites do occur, as near Copelaud Schoolhouse, 

 East Bradford township, Chester county, near ^lortonville, and 

 on Buck and Doe run, near the Brandy wine in East Fallowtield 

 township, but they are rare and always easy to be distinguished 



In the northeast the hydromica schist belt first appeai-s in the 

 Whitemarsh (otherwise Plymouth, otherwise Montgomery Valley, 

 the northeasterly continuation of the Chester Valley) not far from 

 Marble Hall. If, continues to Conshohocken as a high hill, 

 bounded on all sides, except the southwest, by limestone, which in 

 its turn is bounded by Cambrian sandstone and it by the ancient 

 gneiss. At Conshohocken the Schuylkill flows through it and it 

 is well defined, extending from the ^latisou's Ford road to the 

 Gulf creek, bounded on both sides by limestone and intersected by 

 the Conshohocken diabase dyke. 



One of the prominent features of this belt is its remarkable 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 251 



widening west of the Schuylkill. From its beginning to the 

 Schuylkill it is about a thousand feet in breadth. It forms the hill 

 on which Conshohocken ij built. West of the river it forms a 

 hill of about the same width and 300 feet to 400 feet high for a 

 mile and a half, where it is cut by the Gulf creek to a level of 

 about 150 feet. This creek, flowing eastwardlj through the upper 

 part of Cream Vallej and near the southerly edge of the hydro- 

 mica, here turns abruptly northward through a very steep-sided 

 gap known as " The Gulf," and then turning abruptly eastward 

 flows on, or very near, the northerly line of the hydromica into the 

 Schuylkill. The illustration of this gap was taken by Dr. Charles 

 Schiiffer. 



Fig. 3.— The Gulf. 



A very little west of tlie line of this gap, two steep, nearly 

 parallel hills of hydromica appear rising out of the limestone plain 

 which bounds it on the north, and widen the belt at once to a mile 

 and a half. It would be interesting to know whether the floor of 

 the intermediate valleys is of limestone, but no rocks are visible in 

 the valleys, and I have been unable to find trustworthy dips except 




252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



in the southernmost hill. The strike is evidently nearly coinci- 

 dent with the trend of the hills ± S. 60^ W. In the Gulf, at the 

 south entrance, near almost vertical hmestone of Cream Valley, 

 the dip is N. 30° W. 70°, soon becoming 90° and then S. 25° 

 E. 80° near the north entrance and the limestone of the Chester 

 Valley, making a synclinal if the rock is stratified and dips so 

 steep are trustworthy. This was Mr. Hall's view, while Dr. 

 Frazer thought it anticlinal. The limestone in front of the pro- 

 montories dips S. 20° E. 70° to 90°, S. 30° E. 75°."^ 



About three miles west of the 8chuylkill, the Radnor and King 

 of Prussia road crosses (X. 25° W, ) nearly on the dip line. The 

 southerly of the two valleys ends a short distance east of this 

 road, the northerly a short distance west of it, the hills becoming 

 a tableland two miles broad with deep, precipitous gorges on its steep 

 north slope, and more gentle ones on its more moderate south slope, 

 but without a gap for nearly twenty miles. It is here 350 feet to 

 450 feet above tide. 



From the road just mentioned for about a mile the schists still 

 form a hill distinct on the south as well as on the north, but in the 

 vicinity of Wayne the floor of Cream Valley — composed in great 

 part of the mica schists, here very full of garnets, some of large 

 size, with Cambrian sandstone and, probably (a mile east, cer- 

 talnhj), limestone — rises to 370 feet, and the southerly portion of the 

 hydromica schists is no longer a prominent hill though it still 

 occupies the highest ground, attaining an elevation of over 500 

 feet above tide. 



At AVayue exposures of •:he two series are close together, but the 

 rocks are entirely distinct one from the other. The hard garuet- 

 iferous schist in Fenimore's quarry, north of St. David's Station, 

 dips N. 34° W. 75° ; the hydromica schist in the well of the 

 water-works east of the Radnor Street road, distant from the 

 quarry .3 mile N. 40° W., dips S. 25° to 30° E. ± 70°. Both 



"^ The Schuylkill Valley Railroad cuts the Conshohocken hill east of the 

 Schuylkill. Ihe hill is apparently wholly of hydromica i except the diabase 

 dyke), yet in this excavation, at the railroad level, immediately northwest 

 of the dyke, was abundant limestone, nearly vertical, apparently underly- 

 ing decomposed hydromica schist, also nearly vertical. Directly across the 

 river the strike of the hydromica (N. 00^ E.). of the limestone (X. 02^ E. ), 

 nnd of the trap dyke (X. 65 E.) being approximately the same, and the dis- 

 tance about 1,000 feet, the dyke is separated from the limestone on each side 

 by about 500 feet of hydromica. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 253 



these exposures are excellent. The two rocks may be seen between 

 the above exposures within 500 feet of each other, and in the 

 branches of Gulf creek, the mica schist with a rock much resem- 

 bling the Cambrian sandstone striking N. 70° E., dip uncertain 

 but steep; the hydromica with a dip 60° to 80° S. 30° E. with 

 iron ore and sink-holes adjacent. 



Just west of Wayne, the Pennsylvania Railroad crosses Cream 

 Valley by an embankment, at the foot of wdiich the garnetiferous 

 mica schist may be seen, and enters a cut showing abundant frag- 

 ments of a gneissic rock (probably the Altered Primal of Rogei-s) , the 

 diabase of the Conshohocken dyke, and the typical Cambrian sand- 

 stone. The latter was abundant when the cut was made, but it is 

 now hard to find. It was exposed also in an older cut to the eastward 

 through which the railroad formei'ly ran. At the Eagle road, 

 about a thousand feet northwest of Wayne Station, but immedi- 

 ately northwest of the cut just mentioned, the railroad enters the 

 hydromica, in which it continues over ten miles, the grade rising 

 from 405 feet at Wayne to 546 feet at Malvern with summits 

 probably 50 feet to 75 feet higher. At Frazer the summit of the 

 hill is 560 feet; the railroad has descended to 490 feet, and is near 

 the northerly foot of the hill, limestone appearing on the north 

 within one or two hundred yards. Here the West Chester branch 

 diverges southward, climbs the hill to a height of 584 feet, and 

 crosses it to the ancient gneiss which underlies West Chester. The 

 cuts of the Pennsylvania Railroad from Wayne westward afford 

 abundant exposures. The rock is quite uniform; the following 

 dips were obtained: Just below Valley Forge road (near Devon), 

 strike N. 70° E. 90°; 200 feet west, N. 12° W. 87°; east of 

 Devon Station, S. 5° E. 75°; half a mile above, S. 30° E. 85°; 

 200 feet above the last, S. 25° E. 85°. 



At the northwest end of this cut there is for about a hundred 

 feet the unusual dip of N. 45° W. 65°, followed by a small valley 

 and another cut, strike N. 60° E. 90°; toward the west end of 

 this cut N. 50° W. 60°, being almost a repetition of the former. 

 Just below Berwyn Station, strike N. 45° E. 90°, just above 

 strike N. 50° E. ± 90°. 



Along the north foot of the hill the dips are usually S. E. 60° 

 and upwards, agreeing closely with those of the hmestone — e. g. , 

 southwest of Howellville, Chester countv, S. 25° E. 60°; north 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



of Paoli, S. 35° E. 75° to 90^; Frazer, S. 10° E. 65°, S. 25° E. 

 60°, S. 35° E. 65°; south of Glenloch, S. 30° E. 60° to 90°, S. 

 25° E. 70° to 80°. 



The exposures along the "West Chester branch present no special 

 features. The border line between the mica schists and the 

 hydromica is not distinct; the latter east and west of Kirkland 

 Station strikes K 60° to 75° E. 90°, but a half-mile north of 

 Green Hill Station the mica schists are well exposed close to a small 

 branch of Taylor's or Black Horse run. They dip quite regularly 

 S. 23° E. 60°. The same rock forms bold bluffs further west 

 along Broad run,"- a small branch of Valley creek. The hydro- 

 mica is not well exposed in this vicinity, but its border is probably 

 but a little north of the southerly line of West Whiteland town- 

 ship, so that the hydromica has diminished in width to a mile and a 

 half or less. 



About a mile and a half further west Valley creek afiords a 

 good section, as does also the East Branch of the Brandywine 

 one to two miles beyond (the two converging). On the former 

 the hydromica may be seen with a vertical dip about three-quar- 

 ters of a mile south of the Pennsylvania Railroad, while at and 

 above McMiun's (now Grubb's) mill the mica schist dips S. 30° 

 E. 60° and S. 25° E. 45°. On the East Branch the latter is very 



"'^ It may prevent confusion to state that there are at least three Broad 

 runs in Chester coanty, the northernmost a small creek risinii near Kirkland 

 Station on the railroad from Frazer to West Chester and flowing nearlv west 

 into Valley creek (C, p. 9); the next a considerable stream rising in the 

 hydromica schists south of Gallagherville and flowing southeast in a course 

 which for four miles is remarkable for its parallelism to the general course of 

 the Brandywine, from which in tlie four miles it is but little over one mile 

 distant. This course is curved first ea.>*tward, then sautheastwanl, the last 

 being nearly the dip. This is the B )ardley nin of C, pp. 40, 70. The south- 

 ernmost is in the southerly part of New Garden township, close to and nearly 

 parallel with the Delaware State line. 



" Extensive exposures of limestone occur along the northern edge of New 

 Garden township in the banks of Broad run'' (C*, p. 59). If this is 

 correct there is a fourth Broad run. 



Valley creek is but little more definite, as two of the name head in the 

 Chester Valley on the east and west sides of the divide which crosses the 

 valley near Glenloch in the western p irt of Ea^t Whiteland township, the 

 easterly flowing east and then north through the Valley Forge Gap to the 

 Schuylkill, the westerly flowing west and then south into the East Branch 

 of the Brandywine. It is this into which the Broad run referred to in the 

 text flows. 



Besides these there is Valley run, rising south of Cain Meeting-house, 

 flowing eastward through the Chester Valley and through Beaver creek into 

 the East Branch of the Brandywine. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255 



boldly exposed dose to Hawley's mill, S. 35 E. 45°, S. 40° E. 

 40°, S. 40° E. 65°, S. 70° E.'25°; while within 500 feet to the 

 northwest the hydromica, strikiog about N. 50° E.. dips vertically. 



About a quarter of a mile above Hawley's mill and one mile 

 above Valley creek, there is a small quarry in very quartzose 

 hydromica on the right bank. The bedding is unusually regular. 

 The rock contains small cubes of pyrite. Its strike is N. 50° E., 

 dip 85° to 90° S. E. 



About a mile above this, on the left bank, close to where the 

 road to the east part of Downingtown crosses the creek, is a green 

 hydromica schist N. 75° E., 85° to 90° K W. This is close to 

 the northwest corner of East Bradford township. 



About three-quarters of a mile S. 30° W. of Hawley's mill, on 

 the farm of Wilson Young, is a quarry in which the schist resem- 

 bles more closely the mica schist than the hydromica, but with a 

 dip of 90°, strike N. 45° E. About 500 feet south of this is an 

 outcrop of dolomite colored green, probably by talc. 



About three miles west of the East Branch, along Broad run, 

 and about one and three-quarter miles south of Thorudale, is a 

 high bluff of hydromica schist dipping S. 40° E. 70°. West of 

 this is a distinct but small anticlinal in the hydromica from N. 40° 

 W. 75° to S. 28° E. 55°, while a quarter of a mile north the 

 strike is N. 60° E., the dip 90°. One mile south the mica schists, 

 here heavy-bedded and hard, dip nearly S. ± 15°. 



The localities mentioned in the last two paragraphs indicate that 

 the usual nearly vertical dip of the hydromica and the low dip of 

 the mica schists are not without exception. 



On the West Branch of the Brandywine the hydromica schists 

 may be seen well exposed south of Coatesville to beyond Modena 

 on the northeast bank, dipping S. 25° E. 60°, S. 10° E. 55°, 

 S. 45° E. 45°, S. 25° E. 50°, S. 30° E. 55°, S. 20° E. 45°, 

 S. 45°, below which are the mica schists. The mica schists occupy 

 the southwest bank from northwest of Modena southeastward, 

 with dips S. 10° E. 55°, S. 35° E. 10° to 20°, S. 10° W. 20°, 

 S. 20° E. 50°, S. 35° W. 20°, S. 80° W. 30°, S. 40° W. 20°. 

 No definite structure could be made from these very irregular dips. 



On the highland between lines south of Coatesville and of Pome- 

 roy no trustworthy dips in the hydromica were obtained. The 

 mica schist, however, is exposed, especially along the Strasburg 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



road, and here seems to dip S. ± 45° E. := 50"^ with ncuch uni- 

 formity (one dip, however, was S. 10° E. 55°), but on the road 

 from the Strasburg road to Modena, at a half-mile west of the 

 former, S. 35° E. 10° to 20°; at five-eighths, S. 10° W. 20°; at 

 three-quarters, S. 20° E. 50°. 



The next gap is made by Buck run flowing south from Pome- 

 roy. Here the line is near Newlin Station, north of Garrett's mill. 

 At the mill the mica schists form a precipitous hiil and dip S. 20° 

 E. 35°. South of Newlin Station they are S. 50° to 60° E. 20°, 

 one-quarter mile above S. 40° E. 45° on the right bank, S. 25° E, 

 35° on the left bank near the railroad bridge. On the same side, 

 one-eighth mile above the grist mill near Newlin Station, convoluted 

 mica schist dips S. 40° E. 60°. A quarter of a mile above the 

 dip of S. 25° E, 35° near the railroad bridge, above (northwest 

 of)'Newlin, the hydromica appears dipping S. 50° E. 80° ; a mile 

 further northwest S. 45° E. 85°, then a half-mile from Pomeroy 

 and not far from the limestone S. 35° E. 60°, S. 30° E. 50°, 

 beyond which the limestone dips S. 20° E. 60°, S. 25° E. 60°. 



West of Buck run exposures near the border are few and poor. 

 One in the mica schist on Fawn run is S. 50° E. 30° ; near 

 Gum Tree N. 55° W. 35°. North of this, on the Highland 

 road, hydromica schist, here unusually full of altered pyrite, is 

 abundant. In AYest Fallowfield, near Hudson's grist mill on 

 Officer's run, hydromica schist dips S. 45° E. 45° to 90°, but 

 further west near Steeleville, on the Octorara, the rock fragments 

 are of mica schist. 



In Lancaster county the division line appears to be near Chest- 

 nut Level, where mica shists dip S. E. 30° to 40°, also near Fern- 

 Glen Post-office, S. 35° E. 40°. On the Susquehanna, above and 

 below Ph}'t's eddy, very compact heavy-bedded mica schists, dipping 

 S. 30° to 35° E. 40° to 55°, make iiigh cliffs. 



If the distinction between the mica schists and the hydromica is 

 a valid one, it is of uo little importance to a proper com2)rehension 

 of the geology of the region. The distinctions which I would 

 draw may be summed as follows: 



Mica Schists. Hydromica Schists. 



Structure comparatively coarse. Structure very tine. 

 Quartz visibly intermixed and Visible quartz in lenticular 



especially interlauiinated. masses, very rarely interlami- 



uated. 




1900.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



257 



Mica Schists. 

 Feel rough and harsh. 

 Lamiuatiou oftea curved 

 twisted. 



and 



Quarries into large blocks with 

 parallel bedding or cleavage 

 planes and roughly rectangu- 

 lar sides. Makes a fair 

 rough building stone. '^^ 



Dips usually southeast and gen- 

 erally less than 40°. 



Feldspar often present macro- 

 scopicaUy. 



Garnets often abundant. Pyrites 

 very rare, disseminated. 



Hydromica Schists. 



Feel smooth and unctuous. 



Lamination smooth and regular 

 (sometimes waved), except 

 around the lenticular quartz, 

 whose curves it follows. 



The quartzose variety quarries 

 into comparatively small 

 pieces with more or less round- 

 ed surfaces. Almost worth- 

 less as a building stone. That 

 free from visible quartz breaks 

 into thin plates, is very soft 

 and of almost no value. 



Dips usually 70° and upwards, 

 except on the northern edge 

 adjacent to the limestone and 

 except in its western part. 



Feldspar rare and found in mi- 

 nute particles only and kaolin- 

 ized. 



No garnets detected. Pyrites 

 in some portions, abundant in 

 cubes altered in great part to 

 limonite. The quartz full of 

 cavities containing ferric 

 oxide. 



" The dip is the most distinct feature, except in the Coatesville- 

 Modena section and westward. Dr. Frazer seems to have noticed 

 the difference of dip, but to have regarded it as of little significance. 



On page 287, describing Willistown, he says: "The northern 

 part of the township is filled with broad conchoidal mica schist 

 containing much chlorite and milk quartz ; . . . . dips vertical or 

 nearly so." He then gives two dips N. 20° W. 80°, S. 15° E. 

 85°. "On the State road near George Hoskins, S. 35° E. 62°." 

 This last is iu the southerly part, in what I think the true mica 

 schists, and illustrates the change of dip. 



Describing East Bradford he gives dips apparently going south- 

 ward: " Strike of these schists is N. 30° E. and the dip vertical. 

 At the mouth of Valley creek the same rocks"-* dip S. 20° E. 40° 



"^ The bridge which carries the Strasburg road over the West Branch of the 

 Brandywine was bailt about 1830 of this stone, quarried in the vicinity, and 

 is surpassed by very few road bridges in Pennsylvania. It has five arches. 



^^^ In my judgment the rocks having these diverse dips are equally diverse 



17 




258 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



(C'*, p. 292) In all cases above mentioned the rocks are 



chloritic in character." " On the eastern side of the township 

 the character of the rocks is not chloritic, though there can be no 

 doubt of the stratigraphical continuity of the beds ""° (C*, p. 293). 



Describing West Bradford (pages 295, 296), the same change 

 of dip may be noticed : " 85°, 70°, 80°, vertical, 72°, vertical, a 

 little further south . . . . S. 20° E. 40°, S. 40°, S. 20° E. 

 45°." " There can be little doubt that in these dips we have an 

 anticlinal between the limestone valley of Chester (and the vertical 

 dips immediately south of it) and the limestone belt here with the 

 moderate southeast dips in the same schists just north of it." 



My view would be nonconformity and that the schists are not 

 of the same age. The Schuylkill section may prove instructive in 

 this connection, comparing the east side with the west, the inter- 

 vening distance being about a mile and a half for 3, half a mile 

 for 4, and about a thousand feet for the others."" 



in their character, as elsewhere descril)eil ami noAvhere better to be seen than 

 here, the northerly steep dipping being soft, almost ductile, the southerly, 

 gently dipping, being hard haish quartzose schist. 



"^ it is to be regretted that Dr. Frazer has not more fully described these 

 chloritic rocks. Among the hydro mica schists I have seen no chlorites, and 

 yet if I understand him aright, it is in the hydromica schist area that he 

 found them abundantly. Dr. Frazer was one of the tirst, if not the verj- 

 first, to call attention to the misnomer of the "talc schists " {Am. Jt^atural- 

 ist, Oct., 18815) for rocks containing no magnesia. 



"* Except that 7 and 8 are concealed on the Schuylkill by the Red Sand- 

 stone, but outcrop both northeast and southwest. 




1900.] NATURAL SCTEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 259 



All observed facts seem to agree with the hydromica schists 

 lying in a synclinal (perhaps not simple) over the limestone, and 

 may be recapitulated as follows: 



First. — The limestone of the Chester Valley may be followed 

 northeastward around the end of the hydromica and thence south- 

 westward into Cream Valley. 



Second. — The limestone in its turn is surrounded, except on the 

 west, by Cambrian sandstone and that by the ancient gneiss. 



Third. — The two northwesterly hills of hydromica strike into a 

 limestone valley with nearly vertical dips, the limestone having 

 similar strike and dip. No explanation seems possible but that 

 the two were closely folded together, the hydromica overlying. 



Fourth. — As already stated, limestone was exposed north of the 

 trap dyke in Conshohocken in the nose of the hydromica schist 

 hill, about twenty feet below the surface. 



In considering the limestones, I have mentioned the fact that 

 these hydromica schists bound the valley in Lancaster as they do 

 in Chester county, and that west of Quarryville they seem to 

 extend northward and the limestone to dip under them. 



The Schists and Gneisses. 

 Excluding the Ancient Gneiss and the Hydromica Schist. 

 For convenience of detailed description the schists and gneisses 

 may be subdivided as follows from the ancient gneiss as a start- 

 ing-point, the fu'st, and perhaps the third, occurring on both sides, 

 the others on the southeast only: 



1. Rogers' Altered Primal. 



2. The Spangled Schists. 



S. The Chestnut Hill Schists, including the highly garnetiferous 

 schists and the sandy schists (whetstone schists). Prof. 

 Rogers' second belt. 



4. The harder, more plicated schists and gneisses to the eastward 



of the last. These may again be divided into: 



A. Manayunk schists. 



B. Porphyritic gneiss. 



C. The more feldspathic schists and gneisses with much 



hornblende schist and gneiss, including the Fair- 

 mount-Leiperville-Chester gneiss. 



D. The Frankford gneiss. 



5. The schists between the North Chester Valley Hill sandstone 



and the limestone. 

 C. The schists, gneisses, etc., north of that sandstone. 




260 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



The whole series of these rocks between the ancient gneiss of 

 the Buck Ridge and its continuation south westward, and the 

 Delaware river from Trenton, X. J., to the southerly line of 

 Pennsylvania, and, in western Chester county, over the whole 

 area from the hydromica schists of the South Valley Hill south- 

 ward, have been termed by Prof. Lesley, following Prof. Rogers, 

 " The Newer Gneiss of the Philadelphia Belt.""' 



He regards them as belonging all to one system of sedimentary 

 rocks, the oldest on the southeastern edge (Gray's Ferry), and as 

 being the remnants of a mountain range of which the mica schists 

 of LaFayette, on the Schuylkill, formed summits of ten thousand 

 or fifteen thou-^and feet in height.^'' 



In saying " The Newer Gneiss seems to occupy the whole field 

 south of the belt of South Valley Hill hydromica slate in Chester 

 .... county," I presume Prof. Lesley did not iniend to include 

 the ancient gneiss area, over three miles wide in the eastern part of 

 the county and running to a point west of Northbrook, about half- 

 way to the Lancaster county hue, the continuation of Buck Ridge. 



On the Schuylkill section these rocks were di\'ided by Prof. 

 Rogers into his first and second groups, by Mr. Hall into three, 

 his second, the Mauayunk schists and gneisses, including part of 

 Rogers' first, and perhaps part of his second. ^Ir. Hall's name 

 is convenient to distinguish the schists and gneisses which cover 

 the greater part of the area, and which are so well and typically 

 exposed at and near Manayunk.^" 



The differing views of geologists as to these schists and gneisses 

 have been given, but the researches of Dr. George H. Williams *-' 

 and of Mr. Frederick D. Chester'" and Mr. C. B. Keyes^"'^ ia the 

 region to the south have thrown much light on the rocks in the 

 adjacent Pennsylvania region. 



"' Final Report, pp. 118, 128 ; First Oeol. Surrey of Pa., I, p. 64. 



^^^ Jbid.. I. pp. lis, 119. 



^^' These divisions, wliile serving a nsefnl pnrpose in discussing the region, 

 must not be regarded as typifying wholly distinct series of rocks, for in 

 most of them strata may be found clo.sely resembling the typical rocks of 

 some of the others. Over large areas, however, the type rocks are very 

 raucli more abundant than any other kind. 



*-'' The gabbros and associated hornblende rocks occurring in the neigh- 

 borhood oi Baltimore, Md. [Bill. U. S. Giol. Surfaj, No. ^Sk 



^■-' The gabbros and associated rocks in Delaware {Bui. U. S. Geol. Sur- 

 veii. No. 59; Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci., Phila., 18S4, p. 248). 



1" Bui. Oeol. Soc. Amer., 1891, Vol. II, p. 309, etc. 




1900.] NAITJRAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 261 



The studies of these geologists seem to establish the fact beyond 

 question that in those areas igneous rocks have by dynamic meta- 

 morphism become more and more changed, chiefly by the well- 

 recognized alteration of pyroxene into hornblende, and the devel- 

 opment of a distinctly foliated character into what are known in 

 the Philadelphia belt as hornblende schists and gneisses. 



With this iotroduction it will be best to consider first the rocks 

 nearest the ancient gneiss, then the limited areas of the porphyritic 

 gneiss and the Fairmount and Fraukford gneisses, leaving to the 

 last the very large area outside of those mentioned. 



It should also be noted that in this region it is impracticable, in 

 the present state of our knowledge, to use the terms gneiss and 

 schist in their strict petrographic sense. While there are true and 

 typical schists, and equally characteristic gneisses, yet these pass 

 the one into the other by insensible gradations. The terms there- 

 fore will be used more in a general than in a strict petrographic 

 sense. 



I. Rogers' Altered Primal. 



The typical rock is thus described by Prof. Rogers: " Meta- 

 morphosed with characteristic white streaks of imperfectly devel- 

 oped crystallized feldspar and hard hornblendic material, with 

 roundish specks of semi-crystallized feldspar ;"i-3 " remarkable 

 for the regular parallelism of its lamination and beddmg; the 

 laminae alternately light and dark, being exceedingly thin, many 



of them usually packing within the thickness of an inch 



In some of the layers certain laminse are studded with isolated 

 crystallizations of hornblende. "^"^ 



This description is graphic as the rock itself is characteristic. 

 Its breadth is not great, but on both sides of the ancient gneiss, 

 from east of the Schuylkill westward, it seems to be of constant 

 occurrence. The rock is often plicated, sometimes minutely so. It 

 is well exposed at the Schuylkill where it appears to be thicker 

 than elsewhere. As Prof. Rogers notes, the feldspar occasionally 

 occurs in rounded crystalline masses of considerable size and the 

 rock approaches a porphyritic gneiss in aspect, but the feldspar is 

 rather in nodules and not in crystals. Some beds, well shown in the 



^23 Vol. I, p. 72. 

 ^^^Ibid, p. 68. 




262 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1900. 



Stacker- Brooks quarry one mile north of Eadnor Station, Dela- 

 ware county, Pa., yield a flagstone. This quarry exposes the rock 

 well, and in it occurred distinct pebbles of the ancient gneiss, the 

 only occurrence in this region of pebbles in these rocks of which 

 I am aware except in similar rock west of the Brandy wine. The 

 lamination and plication are shown in a photograph by Dr. Charles 

 SchaefTer.'" It is here in contact, with the limestone, and on the 



Fio. 4. — Plicated gneiss, t ine mile nortii of Iviulnor Statiou. 



southeast side of the latter, l)iit on the northwest side the rock is 

 not essentially ditfei'ent. The limestone appears to be less than 

 fort}' feet in width. 



It is possible that the Conshohocken diabase dyke, which about 

 this point crosses it, or is in juxtaposition, may have caused some 

 change, but at other poiuts in the course of this dyke there seems 

 to have been little or no effect on the adjacent rocks. The rule, 



^" Except the possible tx-currence at the Queen Lane Reservoir. Philadel- 

 phia, and in the Avoudale liiue>tone hereafter noted. 




1900.] XATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 263 



however, is that this harder pox'phyry-Hke rock is next to the 

 ancient gneiss, and it frequently forms a guide to the'margin. as 

 in southeast AYillistown, near Westtown School, and on the 

 Brandywine. 



On the southeasterly side of the ancient gneiss it may be seen at 

 the Schuylkill, but best in a quarry on the place of Dr. Williams, 

 southwest of Rosemont; also near ^yesttown School, southeast of 

 West Chester. 



Prof. Rogers regarded this as equivalent to his lower primal slate 

 of the Xorth Valley Hill, but apparently all that can be certainly 

 stated as to its age is that in this region it is the upper stratum of 

 the ancient gneiss, or else the first overlying rock. It is evi- 

 dently of clastic origin. 



I have omitted this rock from the geological map because its 

 narrowness would retiuire it to be greatly exaggerated to be ^'isible 

 at all. 



II. The Spangled Schists. 



These, while probably but a variety, are well defined and 

 important.^-' They form to the northeastward a narrow but 

 characteristic belt northwest of the Chestnut Hill schists, 

 from which they diflfer markedly. In Huntingdon Valley 

 they lie southeast of the limestone and on the ^Neshaminy 

 southeast of the Cambrian sandstone. The characteristic feature 

 of most of the rock — namely, that the mica, instead of being all 

 disseminated, is partly in separate curved imperfect crystals, as if 

 it had been subjected to great compression, the crystals showing 

 brilliant surfaces on exposure —is here well shown. Generally the 

 crystals are quite imperfect, but sometimes nearly perfect. Feld- 

 spar, probably orthoclase, while frequently absent is sometimes 

 present in large quantity. To the southwest the curved surfaces 

 of the mica are large, when the tei'm conchoidal mica schists, 

 applied to them by Dr. Frazer, is most appropriate,"' the rock on 

 a cleavage surface presenting a series of rounded hiUs and hollows, 

 with the mica particles parallel to the curving sides. 



These rocks are usually quite schistose, but sometimes in heaxj 

 and solid beds, sometimes very micaceous, sometimes feldspathic, 

 and sometimes hornblendic, but invariably the characteristic min- 



^-® Second Qeol. Survey of Pa., Annual Report, 1886, p. 1592. 

 '-' C*, p. 237. 




264 PEOGEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



eral, whether mica, feldspar or hornblende, is in more or less dis- 

 tinct crystals through the rock. The feldspar crystals are often 

 large, but usually not distinct in form, resembling rather rounded 

 pebbles, but almost ahvays with single smooth cleavages. In 

 certain varieties these feldspar masses weather out while the ground 

 mass remains intact, forming a rock full of holes, well shown 

 north of the ancient gneiss west of the East Branch of the 

 Brandywine, southwest of Copesville. The mica crystals are 

 sometimes very distinct and abundant, with perfect cleavage, 

 but usually with curved surfaces; more frequently they are indis- 

 tinct, but a fracture of the rock gives always a succession of 

 rounded elevations and depressions, usually small, but sometimes 

 two or three inches across, with much lustre. 



More rarely hornblende appears, not scattered through the rock 

 in minute particles, but distinctly crystaUized, sometimes on the 

 cleavage or bedding plane like the tourmalines of the Cambrian 

 sandstone, sometimes, as well shown on the west bank of the 

 Brandywine just below the month of the East Branch, in distinct 

 imbedded crystals. 



This porphyritic character seems, however, to be not confined to 

 the lowest rocks of the series, as, at least in one instance, the rock 

 above the Cambrian sandstone is of the same character. This is in 

 Cream Valley, one mile nearly north of Radnor Station, and a 

 quarter of a mile west of the Montgomery-Delaware county line. 



The northeasterumost point at which these schists are well ex- 

 posed is close to the Pennypack creek, east of the Bound Brook 

 Railroad, though they appear as far east as the Xeshaminy. Xear 

 the Pennypack they are more compact and harder than elsewhere 

 and are very dark and argillaceous-looking. At Paul Brook 

 Station, in a well, the same schists were found, much decomposed, 

 full of large garnets. They form the northwest flank of the hill 

 bounding Huntingdon Valley on the south, about an eighth of a mile 

 southeast of the limestone. They dip quite regularly S. 20- to 

 30 E. 60^ to 70^, and are bounded southeast by the Chestnut 

 Hill schists, as usual much plicated and nearly vertical. They 

 contain garnets in some strata, the garnets usually much larger 

 and not neaily so numeious as in the typical Chestnut Hill schists. 



They continue flanking the hill to its termination near Jenkintown, 

 southwest of which they again appeal southeast of the Cambrian 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



sandstone of Waveily Heights. They may he seen on the Avesterly 

 slope of Chestnut Hill, on Paper Mill lane, and on the Schuylkill 

 close to the LaFayette serpentine, also at Rosemont, between 

 the serpentine and the ancient gneiss, dipping S. 45^ E. 50". 

 Here the Chestnut Hill schists east of it are not very garuetif- 

 erous, but sandy and approaching whetstone. On the Roberts' 

 road, the nearest exposure, the latter dip S. 40^ E. 80^; further 

 southeast, S. 57° E. 57-, S. 48- E. 50 ^ S. 45^ E. 62°, S. 50° 

 E. 70°, with some irregular, as E., S. 80 -^ E., S. 70- E. 



It is possible that these belong to the spangled series and not to 

 the Chestnut Hill. Typical Chestnut Hill schists occur further 

 east, not well shown, near the Pennsylvania Railroad, owing 

 to deep decomposition, but very clearly both to the north and 

 south. 



Southwest of Rosemont the spangled schists are exposed on the 

 Roberts' road, and here one stratum is very feldspathic and crys- 

 talline, almost a granite. It has, however, the same relation to 

 the ancient gneiss as the schists at Rosemont. 



At Darby creek they are prominent, here lying within 200 feet 

 southeast of the ancient gneiss and northwest of the serpentine. 

 Both the muscovite and the orthoclase are in a more crystalline 

 condition than elsewhere, except perhaps southwest of Rosemont ; 

 the difierent strata vary greatly, the most crystalline musco^•ite 

 occurring in an argiilitic variety of the schist. 



Westward of Darby creek exposures are very few, and I am not 

 aware of any outcrop that can be clearly recognized. On the 

 Brandywine, however, a porphyritic gneiss, with hornblende crys- 

 tals in place of mica, just east of the ancient gneiss probably 

 takes its place. 



About two miles west of the forks of the Brandywine, on the 

 State road, near Pocopsin Inn, and between the ancient gneiss and 

 serpentine, it is well exposed, being here very feldspathic. It dips 

 nearly E. 10°, and apparently overlies the serpentine. The ancient 

 gneiss is here not over a quarter of a mile in width, and on the 

 northwest side similar schists occur. A mile to the southwest, the 

 ancient gneiss ends apparently in a large outcrop of serpentine and 

 enstatite (Xewlin corundum locality j, beyond and on both sides of 

 which is a great area of mica schists. N"orthwest of the ancient 

 gneiss these extend to the Schuylkill, narrowing greatly. 




266 rEOCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Because of this narrowing they will be discussed from the Schuyl- 

 kill westward. 



As has been stated, the sequence of the rocks on 1 he west side 

 of the Schuylkill near Consliohocken is : Southeast — ancient gneiss, 

 Rogers' Altered Primal, garnetiferous schists, limestone. North- 

 west — hydromica schist, but in the midst of the limestone schists 

 appear. The contact on the southeast is concealed. The lime- 

 stone dips S. 28° E. 74° ; about 300 feet northwest limestone again 

 appears, dipping about 70° to 80° N. W. If dips so steep as 

 these are trustworthy we have here an anticlinal of limestone. 



A little east of this, on Aramink creek, the contacts of the 

 gneiss, the altered primal and the garnetiferous schist — the latter 

 hejre, and here only, very closely resembling the typical Chestnut 

 Hill rock — may be seen. The dips are very uniform and agree 

 well with those of the limestone: Gneiss S. 20° E. 73°; altered 

 primal S. 20° E. 85°; schist S. 25° E. 80°, while on the River 

 road there are dips in the schists of S. 61°, S. 60° E. 86°, and 

 immediately southeast of ths schists a sandy white rock, breaking 

 into small angular fragments much resembling the Cambrian sand- 

 stone, which outcrops on the opposite shore of the river at Spring 

 Mill.^^* 



These outcrops are near the mouth of Cream Valley, a very 

 straight narrow valley, referred to on p. 216. At this point the 

 summit of the gneiss hill is over 400 feet above the floor of the 

 valley, while the opposing hill (hydromica schist) is between 200 

 and 300 feet, the summits being less thau a mile apart. 



The schists may be found thence westward on the northerly slope 

 of the gneiss hill. On the (rulf road, and westward, serpentine 

 and steatite appear in the schists.''* Ou Montgomery avenue, 1.5 

 miles from the Schuylkill, the Cambrian sandstone appears in or 

 close to them. 



About a half-mile west of Montgomery avenue, large masses of 

 these schists, full of large garnets, appear near Gulf Creek on the 

 laud of yir. Joseph E. Gillingham. From this westward they are 

 readily detected at short intervals. Close to the Delaware-Mont- 

 gomery county line, the typical sandstone was exposed in the bed 



^'^ A mile and a half distant, the river for that spiM?e flowing at the base 

 of the ancient gneiss parallel to the strike and over the line of strike of the 

 limestone and sandstone. 



'-'» The northerly Radnor belt {Proc. Acad. Xai. Sci., 167S, p. 402). 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 267 



of au affluent of Gulf creek, with the schists apparently on both 

 sides of it, certainly on the southeast side. About .4 of a mile 

 west of this was the Stacker-Brooks quarry in limestone and schis- 

 tose gneiss, some layers answering to the description of Rogers' 

 Altered Primal, much alike on both sides of the limestone, except 

 that on the south side some layers of the rock were more slaty and 

 quartzose, while on the north side the porphyritic aspect was more 

 developed. Both sides and the limestone were plicated. About 

 an eighth of a mile nearly due south of this quarry the sandstone 

 was exposed in a lane on the west line of Judge Hare's property. 



About .6 mile west of the quarry and south of the Eagle road,"* 

 west of the Radnor and King of Prussia road, large masses of the 

 schist may be seen containing staurolite in addition to the garnets. 

 The schists were exposed in a well south of this on the property 

 of E. A. Schmidt. 



In a quarry on land of Francis Fenimore, a quarter of a mile 

 north of St. David's Station, they are unusually well exposed, 

 dipping N. 25° W. 70°, N. 34° W. 75°, while the hydromica 

 scliists on the north are S. 10° E. 90°, S. 20° E. 60° to 80°, S. 

 25-30° E. 70°. North of Wayne they are poorly exposed, but 

 shown to be at least 400 to 500 feet in breadth, probably more 

 than to the eastward. Here, apparently in these schists, both on 

 Gulf ci-eek and in the cut of the railroad, the typical Cambrian 

 sandstone appears."^ 



"" The Mattson's Ford road follows the Talley from the Schuylkill to the 

 Delaware county line. It then bears more southwestwardly and ascends the 

 ancient gneiss hill, crossing a serpentine outcrop (the Radnor- West-Chester 

 belt, not the northerly belt just mentioned), to Radnor Station, while about 

 .2 m. to the north the Brooke's Mill road continues up the valley ending 

 in the Radnor and King of Prussia road. On this road, about .1 m. north, 

 the Eagle road begins and continues up the valley. 



^^^ Contrary to Dr. Frazer's opinion, I think there is no difficulty in trac- 

 ing the border line between the hydromica schist and the mica schists which 

 lie to the southward, that is if I understand him correctly. "Throughout 

 an area widening from the east from one mile near Eagle Station to fourteen 

 miles or more along the Octorara creek, and touching the northern outcrop 

 lines of most of the limestone and serpentine patches which extend along 

 this belt, there occur thin mica schists .... some of them are garnetifer- 



ous Within this triangular area .... are irregular included 



areas of more or less chloritic rock and some argillitic or hydra-mira-schists. 

 It was intended to separate these areas from the general mica-schist region 

 and from each other, but this attempt when reduced to paper had to be 

 abandoned, so impossible to suppose as the results of natural divisions were 

 the boundaries thereby produced.'' C*, p. 216. 



Eagle Station was at the crossing of the Conestoga turnpike by the Penn- 

 sylvania Railroad, about .5 m. east of Devon Station. This point is about .3 




268 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



This is about four miles from the Schuylkill. Westward they 

 are almost continuous and widen greatly, though usually occupying 

 low ground and therefore much concealed. 



In Easttown and Willistown townships, in Chester county, near 

 the headwaters of Crum creek, eleven miles from the Schuylkill, 

 they are poorly exposed in connection with the serpentine. On 

 the road next south of the State road three approximatively parallel 

 outcrops of serpentine may be seen, with two and perhaps three 

 outcrops of trap (diabase) and with the garnetiferous schists in 

 place both to the northwest and southeast, and with garnetiferous 

 schist fragments between the serpentine outcrops. On the road 

 leading to Green Tree, the schists may be seen on both sides of the 

 serpentine, while on the road to Malvern, half a mile westward, 

 they occupy a space of some 2,000 feet between two outcrops of 

 serpentine. Trap, probably the diabase of the Conshohocken dyke, 

 occurs distinctly north of all these serpentine outcrops, and to a less 

 extent among them, but none of the outcrojis of any of the rocks, 

 except the serpentines, are favorable for observation. 



North of West Chester, the schists have become nearly or quite 

 a mile in width. Here they do not appear between the serpentine 

 and the gneiss, but only north of the serpentine. Xear the ser- 

 pentine they contain garnets and staurolite, and throughout gar- 

 netiferous strata are not uncommon. The dip is almost unifox-mly 

 to the southeast and not steep — e. <j., one-half mile west of Green 

 Hill Station, S. 23^ E. 60°; on High street, near AVrangle 

 Schoolhouse, S. 20° to 30° E. ± 50'^; on the north branch of Broad 

 run, in the southwest corner of A\"est Whiteland township, S. 

 20° E. 55°, but a little higher up the creek they strike N. 60° 



mile north of the ancient gneiss hill and about 1.5 soiith of the southerly bor- 

 der of the Chester ^'alley limestone, the hydromica schists lying on both sides 

 of the railroad, the mica schists not exposed, the ground south of the railroad 

 being low. It is clear, therefore, that Dr. Frazer means to include the soft 

 unctuous hydromica schists, but as these occupy to the westward a com- 

 paiatively narrow belt, the harder mica schists must be included. Tliis is 

 confirmed by the fact that the latter are frequently garnetiferous, the former 

 rarely if ever so. The distinctions becweeu the chloritic and non chloritic 

 schists I have been nuable to recognize. Except in suiall quantity among 

 the serpentines, and except a narrow stratum near ]VIortonville, I doubt 

 •whether there is chlorite schist, properly so-called, in the region except as a 

 comparatively rare occurrence as in quartz masses near Gum Tree. The line 

 of demarkation between what I have termed the mica schist and the 

 hydromica is clear, sharp and easily to be recognized wherever the exjKisures 

 suffice, and such are not few. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 269 



E, and are nearly vertical. They are exposed in this vicinity in 

 bold bluffs. A very short distance to the north the soft hydromica 

 schists may be seen dipping vertically. 



In this vicinity there appears among the schists a hard compact 

 mica and hornblende gneiss much resembling some of the ancient 

 gneiss, but more schistose. It appears on New street, northeast of 

 West Chester in abundant loose masses, and also in place. Its 

 strike is nearly west-southwest, dip about 90°. This is in West 

 Goshen, about a quarter of a mile east of the East Bradford town- 

 ship line. North of it are loose masses of serpentine, but none of 

 it was seen in place. On the west side of the township line, or 

 perhaps on the line, and west of it, this gneiss seems to form the 

 centre of a hill of about 175 feet iu height, quite narrow and about 

 half a mile long. On both its flanks are the schists. A road 

 cutting exposed the westerly nose of this hill, showing a narrow 

 synclinal of the gneiss, including a stratum two feet wide of 

 steatite, overlying which were mica schist and quartz, much plicated. 

 Nearly on the strike of this hill, and about 500 feet southwest, is 

 a lower, less abrupt hill of schists, including two outcrops of lime- 

 stone (Cope's quarries). They lie about S. 50° W. and S. 65° W. 

 from the gneiss. The limestone and schists iu the southerly and 

 best exposed outcrop strike S. 40° W., dip N. 35° to 45° W. 65°. 

 The schists forming the north wall are garnetiferous, spangled and 

 contain interlaminated quartz and also feldspar nodules. The 

 limestone is but about forty feet wide. The south wall is a por- 

 phyritic schistose gneiss, but, as Dr. Frazer suggests, probably 

 more recent than the ancient gneiss and made up of fragments 

 of it."" The other outcrop, perhaps 200 feet to the north, is insig- 

 nificant, showing only the south leg of an anticlinal, with traces of 

 the arch. The adjacent rock is not exposed in place, but the soil 

 is full of schist fragments. 



To the northwest of Cope's quarry is a hill extending west-south- 

 west to the Brandywine. This, as shown by fragments in the soil 

 and by the exposures on the Brandywine, is of the harder feldspar 

 and hornblende gneiss which forms the high hill east of Cope's. 

 The trap dyke extends along its slope near the summit, but on the 

 Brandywine it is on the southerly side of the small valley which 

 separates this hill from that in which Cope's quarry is. A meas- 



"^ C*, p. 294. 




270 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



urement of this gneiss about .2 mile northwest of Cope's quarry 

 just north of the trap gave a strike N, 40° E. nearly vertical. 

 Northwest of this gneiss the schists again appear and near Cope- 

 land Schoolhouse contain thin layers of talc schist. 



Cope's quarry is about a mile northeast of the East Branch of 

 the Brandywine, on which the rocks ai'e unusually well exposed. 

 At the State road crossing, three miles southwest of West Chester, 

 and for some distance above it, the ancient gneiss is seen. The 

 next roads to the north are the Strasburg road, running westward 

 from West Chester over the gneiss, and a short curved road diverg- 

 ing northwestwardly from it and converging to it along Black 

 Horse run, laid out to obtain better gradients. The ancient gneiss 

 is exposed on these roads also. The two unite at the crossing of 

 Black Horse run, not far from Cope's quarry, and ascend the low 

 hill on which the inn stands. This is of varied rock, chiefly a 

 hard but schistose feldspar and compact hornblende gneiss, much 

 of it decomposed. There are decomposed schists with it, probably 

 the hornblende rock altered, and in seams in these a compact 

 talc (?) known as " indurated talc." This rock does not resemble 

 any other of the vicinity, and is probably intrusive, or perhaps the 

 schists with intrusive hornblendic rocks (altered diorite?) altering 

 them. On the east slojie of the hill schists strike N, 60° E., dip 

 uncertain. On the west slope, the hard gneiss strikes N. 40^ E. , 

 dip uncertain. Oose to the Brandywine, the Strasburg road 

 makes a detour upstream to avoid a bold cliff on the right bank ' 

 known as Deborah's rock. The rock forming this cliff strikes 

 jS". 50° E., dip about 90°; it is very hard but somewhat schistose 

 mica and hornblende gneiss, and belongs, I believe, to the schistose 

 series and not to the ancient gneiss. At Copesville, where the 

 Strasburg road crosses, the schists are well exposed in high cliffs. 

 They are quite micaceous and contain kyauite and garnet, and more 

 rarely menaccanite with feldspar in })orphyroidal masses; some 

 layers are less micaceous. A hard gneiss with considerable masses 

 of feldspar occurs further north. Dips here are S. 50- E. 40°, 

 S. 30^ E. 50°, S. 45° E. 45°. Some of the gneiss is studded 

 with isolated crystals of hornblende. These rocks, as pointed out 

 by Dr. Frazer, resemble strongly the rocks near the Delaware 

 northwest of Chester."^ 



"" CS p. 61. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 271 



Three-quarters of a mile northwest of Copes ville, Valley creek, 

 flowing nearl)' south, em[)ties into the Brandywiue. On it at 

 McMinn's mill, or Grubb's mill (Talcose Post-office), the mica 

 schists dip S. 25= E. 45°, and just above S. 30^ E. 60=. Three- 

 quartei"s of a mile above McMinn's mill, the hydromica schists are 

 met, the strike about southwest, but somewhat irregular, the dip 

 vertical or nearly so. 



Returning now to the East Branch of the Brandywiue, the mica 

 schists may be observed just above the mouth of Valley creek, 

 dipping southeast about 60'. A mile above is Hawley's mill. 

 On the left bank, high steep chfls of the mica schists form a 

 prominent feature, on the right bank they are also exposed, though 

 not so prominent. They dip S. 40° E. 40=, S. 40= E. 65=, S. 

 35= E. 45 = , S. 70° E. 25=. Less than three hundred feet above, 

 the hydromica schists appear with their characteristic features, 

 striking about S. 45= W., dip vertical or nearly so. 



It should be noted that a line connecting Cope's limestone quairy 

 with the range of quarries among which are the Poorhouse quarry 

 and the Embreeville quarry would pass a little north of Copes- 

 ville. In C^ p. 58, it is stated that there are signs of limestone on 

 the East Branch of the Brandvwine a little north of Copesville. 

 I could find no outcrop; the contours, however, very distinctly 

 indicate the continuance of the limestone, the creek itself follow- 

 ing its strike for a half-mile at nearly 90° from its general course 

 and a well-marked valley occupying the line west of the Brandy - 

 wine. On the south side of this valley a road has been constructed 

 diverging northwardly from the Strasburg road close to the Bran- 

 dywiue and entering it again a mile beyond ]Marshallton, to avoid 

 a very high hill of the schists over which the old road passes. On 

 the Strasburg road schists only can be seen (except trap) poorly 

 •exposed, dipping south -southeast, but on the newer road mica 

 schists are well exposed, dippmg S. 30= E. 50°. On this road, a 

 little over a half-mile from the Brandy wine, is the limestone quarry 

 of George March. Xo contacts are visible, but south of the 

 quarry and within 100 feet are quantities of schist fragments, two 

 very large, which may be in place. Its strike is N. 40° E. A 

 quarter of a mile north of the quarry there is an exposure iu a 

 lane on Ingram's property; the rocks are quite varied here, some 

 layers being micaceous, some highly feldspathic, and some horn- 




272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



blend ic. They strike from N. 80° E. to E. and dip 60^ and 

 upwards southeast, or toward the limestone. A quarter of a mile 

 west of this is an abandoned limestone quarry (Moses Wood- 

 ward's), south of which are schists poorly exposed. Three-quar- 

 ters of a mile westward is the road to Gallagherville, near the 

 junction of the newer road with the Strasburg road. Here in the 

 schists there is a considerable outcrop of coarse pegmatite. The 

 adjacent schists dip steeply to the northwest, and a variety with 

 large garnets is precisely the rock of Fenimore's quarry, north of 

 St. David's, Radnor township. Close by is another abandoned 

 limestone quarry (Moses Bailey's), south of which is garnetifer- 

 ous mica schist, imbedded in which was found a pebble-like mass 

 of an older rock, probably ancient gneiss. This schist strikes 

 N. 50° E. and is nearly vertical; a quarter of a mile south the 

 schists dip S. E. ±70°. 



Half a mile southwest is the Poorhouse limestone quarry, by far 

 the largest of the series. Here all the indications are that the 

 schists both underlie and overlie the limestone. The dip being 

 very low, 0° to 15° S. E., an overturn is incredible. North of 

 the quarry decomposed gneiss and schists with quartzite bands dip 

 S. 40° E. 45-^, becoming steeper to 65° southeastwardly, while 

 mica schists overlie conformably. 



If we take a section Hue, west of Copesville, that is about 

 midway between the East Branch and Broad run, we find the 

 ancient gneiss well exposed on the West Branch of the Brandy- 

 wine at Seeds Bridge, southwest of which it forms Brag Hill. On 

 the westerly border of East Bradford, about three-quarters of a 

 mile N. 15° W. of Seeds Bridge, is a phcated sandy schist with 

 hornblende and mica gneiss, dipping about X. 45° W. 10° to 

 50°, and a quarter of a mile further a porphyritic, argillitic 

 schist, in much of which the feldspar crystals or masses have 

 weathered out, leaving numerous cavities. It forms a small hill, 

 and strikes N. 50° to 70° E. vertical. West of this is a hill of 

 the distinctly spangled schists, here containing much feldspar, 

 hence a gneiss, dipping N. 45° W. 15°. Northward the schists 

 continue, and in them, south of the Strasburg road, is trap which 

 extends eastward probably two miles, and in line with that north- 

 Avest of AVest Chester, near Black Horse run. It is probably the 

 diabase of the Conshohocken dyke. North of ^larshallton, the 




1900.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 273 



schists dip S. 45^ E. 60° on the southerly border of the hmestone 

 valley, north of which on this section -line no good exposures were 

 seen, but to the eastward are the gneissoid schists north of 

 March's quarry. 



We come next to the most interesting section of this belt, viz., 

 that north and south of Xorthbrook. 



Beginning south of the ancient gneiss, here very narrow, we find 

 going northward, the distances given being those of the outcrops 

 noted : 



Approximate 

 Distance. Dip. 



10° E. Spangled mica schist and granu- 



lite close east of and appar- 

 ently overlving serpentine. 

 State road, west of Pocopsin 

 Inn. (Southeast of this other 

 schists cover most of the re- 

 gion to the gabbro of Dela- 

 ware. ) 

 =fc 300' S. 70° E. 30^. Schists and gneiss, some highly 



feldspathic, some not; with 

 talc and serpentine. This was 

 the most satisfactory dip and 

 about an average of a consid- 

 erable exposure, but for a short 

 distance the dip increased to 

 90° and was then 70° N. ^\. ; 

 this was south of the gentle 

 southeasterly dips. 

 1,900' K 15° W. 75°. Ancient gneiss, near northerly 



foot of hill. 

 rS. 40° E. 40°."^ Ancient gneiss on the Brandy- 

 2,600' \ Steep northwest ir- 1 y wine east of Xorthbrook; two 

 (_ regular. / J dips close together, 



(X. 20 MV. 25^. ) Schists on right bank of the 

 I N. 1(P ^\. 67°. ) Brandywine west of North- 

 brook, and to the westward 

 enstatite and serpentine. 

 5,000' lirO- to45-±X.\y. Schists on left bank west of 



Northbrook, very irregular. 

 1.5 m. N. 45° W. 15°. Spangled mica schists with much 



feldspar northeast of Trimble- 

 ville. 

 18 



2,600' 




274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900- 



Approximate 

 Distance. Dip. 



1.75 m. S. 45° E. ± 70°. ) East and west of Broad run, 

 90°. 3 south of the road next south 

 of Strasburg road and close 

 south of limestone. 

 0°. \_ Limestone and mica schist over- 

 20°. j lying Poorhouse quarry. 

 45°. I Schists north of Poorhouse 

 70°. j quarry. 



15°. Heavy bedded schists on Broad 

 run, a half-mile northeast of 

 Romansville. 

 90°. ] Hydromica schist on Broad run, 

 70°. j one mile north of Romansville. 

 70°. Limestone of the Chester Valley. 



We have here appareutly the schist resting upon both flanks of 

 the ancient gneiss, with comparatively gentle dips from it and very 

 close to its westward termination, no trace of it being visible one 

 mile to the westward, the schists on both sides seeming to unite. 

 Unfortunately, westward there are no good exposures, though 

 abundant decomposing schist fragments are visible. 



It would seem, therefore, that these rocks must be the first over- 

 lying the ancient gneiss. If such is the fact, and the same schist 

 overlies both flanks, theu it is impossible that these should 

 be more recent than the more easterly mica schists, and 

 equally impossible that there can be a profound fault between them 

 and the ancient gneiss. From the occurrence in them of the 

 limestone and of the sandstone, it seems most probable they are of 

 Cambrian age. In this section there seems to be no trace of the 

 subdivisions seen along the Schuylkill. On the contrary, while the 

 mica whists and gneisses characterize the region, the former are 

 most abundant, varying somewhat, mostly from more micaceous to 

 more quartzose varieties, but not in distinct belts or areas, and 

 almost free from other minerals. 



Before considering these schists in their westerly and southerly 

 continuation it will be best to discuss schists of somewhat similar 

 character on the southeast of the ancient i^ueiss area. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 275 



III. The Chestnut Hill Schists. 

 Second Group of Prof. Rogers. 



These lie between the spaugled schists and the Manayuuk schists, 

 and have been so thoroughly discussed by Prof. Rogers, Mr. Hall 

 and others that but a brief notice of thera is necessary. They 

 are thus described by Mr. Hall: " Characterized by the serpen- 

 tines;"* soapstone; silvery micaceous garnetiferous schists; light- 

 colored thin-bedded sandy gneiss ■with disseminated light-colored 

 mica in minute flakes."'^* 



One of the most definite characteristics is thus well described by 

 Prof. Rogers : ' ' The rock breaking into long narrow chunks, 

 comparatively smooth on their sides, but excessively ragged on their 

 ends; a style of fracture strongly resembling that of half-rotted 

 fibrous wood."^^' They are frequently very garnetiferous, much 

 more so than any of the others. 



In the Final Report, Vol. I, p. 125, it is stated that this group 

 ends in a point at Jenkintown, eight miles east of the Schuylkill.^" 



While the peculiar wood-like schist, whether garnetiferous or 

 not, is very well marked and characteristic, some areas of the belt 

 as laid down by both Prof. Rogers and Mr. Hall contain rocks 

 very hard to distinguish from those of ^Ir. Hall's Manayunk 

 group. Mr. Hall states that no dividing line can be drawn. 

 West of the Schuylkill he suggests Mill creek as the dividing line, 

 but the gneisses immediately northwest of this stream are the hard 

 gneisses of the Manayuuk belt. The Wissahickon, the Schuylkill, 

 and especially the Schuylkill Valley Railroad cuts give good sections, 

 but no dividing line. Further southwestward the very garnetiferous 



^^* Mr. Hall thinks the serpentines, with perhaps a few insignificant ex- 

 ceptions, confined to those rocks or overlying them in synclinal basins. C^, 

 p. 13 et seq. I have given elsewhere my reasons for doubting this [Proe. 

 Acad. Nat. ScL, 1890, p. 95 etseq.). 



•»» C\ p. 71. 



"« Geol. of Pa., I, p. 71. 



^^' This does not accord with my observations. It is well exposed in a 

 quarry on the Pennypack creek south of Huntingdon valley, the spangled 

 schist occurring as usual on its northwest side, dipping S. 30° E. 70°, while 

 the Chestnut Hill schists are much plicated and apparently nearly vertical. 

 This locality is lour miles east-northeast of Jenkintown. The spangled schist 

 is plainly visible on the Neshaminy southeast ot'Oaktord Post-office, six miles 

 further. There is at this point no evidence whether or not the Chestnut 

 Hill or Manayunk schists flank them — there are no rock exposures. 



This seems also not to accord with the theorj' that all these rocks are 

 sheared by a fault diagonal to the strike {Final Report, I, p. 125). 




276 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



variety, so abundant from Cobb's creek northward, gives place to 

 a biglily quartzose non-garnetiferous schist, a whetstone. In this 

 section the rock, where entirely decomposed, may be traced by 

 abundant masses of white quartz, weathering yellow. This may 

 be seen in place in the schists on the Gulf road southeast of the 

 Roberts' road, Bryn Mawr. Curiously the apparent southwesterly 

 termination of this area of these schists, Avhich is near Marple 

 Schoolhouse, near the road from Newtown Square to Palmer's 

 mills, is marked by an unusually great outcrop of the quartz. 



In these schists kyanite and staurolite are not uncommon, while 

 garnets constitute sometimes a considerable portion of the rock. 



IV. The Porphyeitic Gneiss, 



About four miles from the ancient gneiss, measured along the 

 Schuylkill, which from Spring Mill flows nearly on the line of 

 dip, is the belt of porphyritic gneiss, a hard rock the limit of tide- 

 water before the Fairmount dam was built. The channel was 

 obstructed by the rock forming a rapids known as the Falls of 

 Schuylkill, a name which that part of Philadelphia still retains. 

 It is, at the Schuylkill, not over a quarter of a mile in breadth, 

 and is not visible northeast of Laurel Hill, but it widens rapidly 

 westward, extending at the Lancaster turnpike, 2. 5 miles from the 

 river, from the crossing of the Pennsylvania Railroad below Over- 

 brook to Wynnewood, a distance of 2.25 miles, or 1.7 miles across 

 the strike. It is well exposed on Cobb's creek, less so on Darby 

 creek. It can be seen in quarries in the vicinity of Morton, l)ut it 

 apparently does not reach Crum creek. 



Just on the northwestern edge of the porphyritic gneiss at the 

 Schuylkill, that is about .2 mile above the Park bridge at the 

 Falls, is a quarry, not recently wrought, in a rock showing the 

 variety of, and rapid changes in, the gneiss of this region. Xot 

 over two or three hundred feet in linear extent and less on the 

 strike, the following varieties occur: 



Kearly white, fine-grained, chiefly oligoclase and quartz, with a 

 little biotite and tourmaline;"' 



Quartzose biotite schist, nearly black ; 



Muscovite gneiss, fine-grained, light gray ; 



Hornblende gneiss, some of the hornblende passing into epidote; 



^^ Deterinmed by Jtlr. Croldsmith. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 277 



A gneiss nearly black in color, containing much black mica, 

 probably biotite, passing into a black mica schist; 



Pegmatite, chiefly of a reddish flesh-colored feldspar, with 

 tourmaline. 



This porphyritic gneiss has much to suggest an igneous origin ; 

 much of it is a true augen- gneiss. Its best exposure is that made 

 by Cobb's creek, which flows through it by a deep valley. If 

 igneous, we ought here to find in its width of two miles some un- 

 altered rock and probably an increase in gueissic or schistose 

 structure from the centre toward the edges, but we do not. On 

 the contrary, it seems to alternate with mica schists containing 

 staurolite, garnet and kyanite, or to iu elude one or more ai'eas of 

 them, and the hardest and most crystalline rock is near the edges — 

 e. g., northwest of Sixtieth and INIarket streets, Philadelphia, and 

 on Cobb's creek 500 feet south of the Haverford road, where that 

 road going southeast turns east and leaves the creek. It has a 

 fine-grained mica feldspar base in which are numerous evenly 

 distributed crystals of feldspar, apparently orthoclase, always 

 twinned, and usually, but not invariably, with their axes parallel. 

 These crystals are firmly attached to the base, so that crystal 

 forms are not seen, only sections upon fracture. They are from an 

 eighth of an inch or less up to two inches in length. 



The granite of this belt di^rs in aspect from that of the rest of 

 the region. It occurs in large quantity. It is a coarse pegmatite, 

 chiefly a flesh-red feldspar, sometimes more than flesh red, with a 

 chalky-white feldspar and with very little quartz and mica, the 

 latter sometimes in thin films and sometimes in small separate crys- 

 tals. There is also true graphic granite, and some that resembles 

 more a breccia of quartz and feldspar. In the cut of Lans- 

 downe avenue, Philadelphia, it appears to be in dykes cutting the 

 gneiss, or to be filling sharply defined veins. Toward Darby creek 

 in this belt occirs much hornblende rock not containing the feld- 

 spar crystals. Microscopic examination by Dr. Bascom shows this 

 to be a gabbro diorite. With this exception the rock is remark- 

 ably uniform over its whole area, the variation being almost wholly 

 in the size of the feldspar crystals. The finer varieties make a 

 very good building stone, and even the coarser are used. 



This rock appears not to have been seen by the geologists of the 

 Second Survey. ^^^ It seems to resemble very closely the augen- 



»9 C^ p. 27. 




278 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900, 



gneiss near Bedford, N. Y., described by Dr. Luquer and Dr. 

 Ries."" 



The Fairmount Gxeiss. 



This name has lieen applied to the rather fine-grained muscovite- 

 raicroclin-gneiss which forms the hill at Fairmount, Philadelphia, 

 exposed only there and on the opposite bank of the Schuylkill, 

 and along Crum and Ridley creeks near Chester and in that vicin- 

 ity. On the west side of the Schuylkill it formed a low anticlinal, 

 dipping under mica schists in both directions. The southeasterly 

 dip may still be seen on the Pennsylvania Railroad; the north- 

 westerly w^as exposed dux-ing the construction of the tunnel carry- 

 ing the tracks of the New York branch under the main line, near 

 Thirty-sixth street. The gneiss is here of very limited extent. 

 On Crum and Ridley creeks what appears to be the same rock is 

 well exposed, and has been largely quarried. Here the dip (cleav- 

 age'?) is steep."' 



This rock yields the most valued building stone of the region. 

 The quarries on Ridley and Crum creeks are still yielding large 

 quantities of fine building and curb stone, while that of the Fair- 

 mount quarries, imtil the advance of the city closed them, was 

 much sought for,'^' 



"0 Am. Geologist. October, 1896, XVIII. p. 239. 



"' Mr. Hall (C*, pp. 2 and 59, etc.), thinks the dip to be gentle and to the 

 northwe.st and io lie indicated by what are known to ihequarrymen a.sbeds. 



"■^ It is strange to find in the summary of the Si cond Gtol. Surrey a 

 sweeping condemnation of this gneiss: "The Philadelphia lower .subdivi- 

 sion .... '' from " Gray's Ferry to the month of the Wi-sahickon 



very few solid beds can be found and the surface stime is worthless. Even 

 where quarries have been opened, the under ayed stone can only be used for 



the roughest building purposes But among the gray micaceous 



gneiss Iteds and mica slate beds occur numerous beds of hard horubleude- 

 gneibs, which is a good quarry stone and stands well " (p. 122). 



In the /bllowing important structures the Fairmount gneiss was used for 

 face stone and it would have been very much more largely used but for the 

 fact that its outcrop was in part taken into Fairmount Park, in part by the 

 Pennsylvania Kailroad, and the remainder built upon. 



The Church of the Redeemer, Bryn ^lawr ; Bryn Mawr Station ; Ardmore 

 Station ; the residence of Mrs. Wheeler, Bryn Mawr and that of Mr. .James K. 

 Whitney; that of Mv. John C. Wilson, northwest corner Thirty-lift h and 

 Poweiton avenue ; that of Mr, Field, southeast corner Thirty-S'xth and 

 Powelton avenue ; that of George W. Blabon, Twenty-second and Tioga 

 streets ; Jr^t. Martin's Church, Radnor, Pa. 



These and many others were constructed of the Fairmount stone and 

 show no signs of decay. 



The stone from the qnari'ies on Crum and Kidley creeks has been used for 

 nearly a century. The size of the (luarries shows the immense quantity of 

 stone removed. By far the largest proportion of this was used for lace stone 

 and curbing. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 279 



Fi'om the quarries on Cruiii and Ridley creeks was obtained the 

 stone for the old Market Street Bridge, the new Baltimore & Ohio 

 Railroad bridge across the Schuylkill in Fairmount Park, the 

 bridge of the Trenton Cut-off Railroad over the Schuylkill below 

 Norristowu, and many other important structures, none of which 

 show signs of deterioration. 



The fine stone arched bridge of the Reading Railroad over the 

 Schuylkill at the Falls was constructed over a half-century ago of 

 the porphyritic gneiss, quarried near by, and is in perfect condition 

 to-day. 



Comparatively little of the hornblende gneiss has been used, 

 except for road material, and except that of the Frankford and 

 Rittenhouse lane (McKinney's) quarries, in which some hornblende 

 occurs, though hardly in sufficient quantity to make it a horn- 

 blende gneiss. 



The FrankfoPvD Gneiss. 



This rock has the abnormal strike of nearly east and west. Its 

 chief exposures are at Frankford, at ^Yayne Junction, German- 

 town, and at McKinney's quarry on the Wissahickon. It is a 

 highly feldspathic gneiss containing but little mica (chiefly biotite, 

 var. lepidomelane) and hornblende, very hard yet readily wrought, 

 forming a valuable building stone. 



At a time when all the rocks of the region were deemed un- 

 doubtedly sedimentary^ the late Prof. H. Carvill Lewis asserted his 

 belief that this was an altered intrusive dyke."^ 



The quarries at Frankford and McKinney's are noted mineral 

 localities. ^^^ 



The Manayunk Gneisses and Schists. 



There remain to be described the mica schists and gneisses which 

 cover the remainder of the area between the ancient gneiss and the 

 DelaAvare, which are not distinctly separable into belts or areas. 

 They are of somewhat varied character, but are typified by Mr. 

 Hall's Manayunk belt, so called from the excellent exposures near 

 that part of Philadelphia. He describes it as coni:aining gray 

 schistose gneiss with garnets, beds of hornblende slate and tine- 

 grained sandy gneiss. ^^* 



"■* Nature, October 8, 1885, p. 560. 



"♦ Proc. Acad. JSfat. ScL, April 26, 1892, pp. 178, 179. 



'« C«, p. 2. 




280 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1900, 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 281 



They coutaia few garnets compared with the Chestnut Hill series ; 

 toward the eastward, hornblende schists are more abundant, like- 

 wise feldspar. A prevailing feature is the sharp folding of the 

 rock, the plications being numerous and great. Fig. 5 is from a 

 photograph taken by Dr. Schaffer on Roxborough avenue near the 

 Wissahickon, Philadelphia. 



As stated by Mr. Hall and by Prof. Lesley the subdivisions, so 

 clear on the Schuylkill, cannot be recognized much further south- 

 weptward. Indeed, the typical Manayunk rocks so prominent on 

 the Schuylkill are scarcely to be found three miles west of it. 



Near the mouth of a small creek flowing into the Schuylkill near 

 Strawberry Mansion, Fairmount Park, is a rock apparently identi- 

 cal with one found by Dr. George H. Williams and described by 

 him as follows: " In specimens collected on Sligo Branch;"'* the 

 surface of this rock was covered with small nodules, which upon 

 examination proved to be made up almost entirely of quartz and 

 sillimanite, a mineral combination strongly suggestive of the con- 

 tact metamorphism of included fragments.""^ 



In an excavation in the mica schist made for water-pipe near 

 the Queen Lane reservoir, in Germantown, Philadelphia, two 

 masses of quartz were observed looking like elongated pebbles. 

 They are oval in section, one measuring 5 x 3 x 10 in., but one end 

 was broken off. The original length was probably a foot; the 

 other was much larger. They are composed of a hornstonelike 

 quartz, jointed so that they fell to pieces on extraction, the joints 

 thinly coated with probably hyaline quartz with dendrites. They 

 were imbedded in a very soft mica schist. 



Before discussing the rocks of western Delaware county and 

 southern Chester county, it will bf well to consider the topography 

 and drainage systems of the region. 



The Schuylkill flowing with a nearly south course across the 

 Chester Valley limestone and the hydromica schist strikes the 

 ancient gneiss hill, and for a mile and a half flows along its base 

 a little north of east. Then, breaking through by a steep-sided 

 gap, it flows with a nearly straight southeast course until the por- 

 phyritic gneiss is reached at the Falls. This hard rock does not 

 divert it, but immediately after crossing the gneiss the river flows 



^*® Probably Fairfax county, Va. 



"' U. S. Oeol. Survey, Fifteenth Ann. Eep., p. 665. 




282 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



nearly south for a mile and a half through schists and gneisses of 

 varying texture and hardness to Columbia Bridge. Here on the 

 left bank is very hard hornblende gneiss (altered diorite?), with 

 some pegmatite; this again does not divert it, but immediately after, 

 it takes a southeast course until it has passed Fairmount, then south- 

 erly, with curves, to its mouth. Southeast of Buck Ridge its 

 drainage area on its right bank is very limited for so large a stream, 

 not exceeding four miles in width at any point, and being as nar- 

 row as one and a half miles. 



Darby creek and its branches drain the next area to the southeast- 

 ward between nearly southeast parallel lines about six miles apart, 

 the creek rising on the southerly edge of the hydromica schist and 

 flowing through the ancient gneiss, here nearly three miles wide, and 

 then through the schists. The stream bed is high and the erosion 

 much less than at the Schuylkill. 



Next is Crum, then Ridley creek. In their lower courses the 

 drainage areas of these creeks are parallel to that of Darby creek 

 and very narrow, the creek? themselves being but about two miles 

 apart and their combined drainage areas not much over four miles 

 wide. Their northwestern branches, however, spread out to the 

 westward and along the northerly edge of the ancient gnei.ss and 

 cover a lineal distance of six miles. 



The next, Chester creek, is roughly parallel to Ridley creek, but 

 its headwaters also spread out to the westward so that its general 

 course is about east-southeast, while its west branch drains a large 

 area to the southwest. The parallelism mentioned is not perfect, 

 for all the streams converge, and all, except the Schuylkill, enter 

 the Delaware withiu three miles. All these streams, except the 

 Schuylkill, rise either in the ancient gneiss or along the base of 

 the hydromica and are comparatively small, but owing to their 

 rapid descent, suggestive of geologically modern origin, subject to 

 sudden floods. 



The next stream, the Braudywine, is second in importance to the 

 Schuylkill. It rises in the AVclsh ]\[ountaius in the extreme north- 

 west corner of Chester county. It has two large and important 

 branches. These rise close together and flow southeastwardly 

 across the strike of the rocks and through deep valleys, one to six 

 miles apart, for a distance of about eighteen miles to the southeast 

 €dge of the ancient gneiss, where the east branch turns southwest 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



and joins the west branch six miles from the Delaware State line, 

 to which point its general bearing is a little east of south, but 

 with a serpentine course. 



By another important branch, Buck-and-Doe run, and its 

 branches, Buck run and Doe run, the whole of central western Chester 

 county is drained, leaving a comparatively small southern and 

 southwestern area to be drained by nearly south flowing streams, 

 Red Clay and White Clay creeks, except the extreme southwest 

 by Big Elk creek. 



The Octorara flowing along the west line of Chester county 

 drains but a small area on its left bank. 



Darby Creek Section. 



The Darbj?- creek section shows southeast of the ancient gneiss, 

 the spangled schist, here gneissic and quite porphyritic, then the 

 serpentine of the LaFayette belt, then Chestnut Hill schists with a 

 preponderance of sanely schist and some hornblende schist, follow- 

 ing which are plicated mica schists and gneisses, usually quite hard, 

 and the porphyritic gneiss. Kyanite and staurolite occur near the 

 Philadelphia city line and to the southeastward, but the Fairmount 

 gneiss does not appear. 



On this section, from the West Chester and Philadelphia road 

 southeastward pegmatite is frequently found, but usually the con- 

 tacts are concealed. On the above road, about .2 mile east of 

 Darby creek, two sheets or veins of pegmatite occur, apparently 

 conformable with the enclosing schists. They are almost wholly 

 feldspar. The eastern dips N. 35° W. 40°, and is from eighteen 

 inches to two feet wide. Three feet east of it, and apparently 

 conformable, is a sheet of feldspar with much bluish quartz. Two 

 hundred feet westward is a sheet of the pegmatite, dipping irregu- 

 larly but gently to the northwest. In these beryl and tourmaline 

 occur sparingly. 



The section afforded by Crum creek presents new features. At 

 Darby creek the ancient gneiss is over three miles wide; at Crum 

 creek this area, which here is wider, is divided by a small valley 

 heading in the gneiss on the Philadelphia and West Chester road 

 one mile west of Newtown Square. Here there are obscure traces 

 of schists, close to the well-known serpentine and enstatite of 

 Castle Rock. The arm of ancient gneiss to the southeastward has 




284 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



a width of one mile. The schists, serpentine and enstatite are 

 probably not over 500 feet wide at the creek, if so much. On the 

 southeastern edge of the gneiss are outcrops of serpentine, not im- 

 mediately on the creek, but to the northeast (Blue Hill). South 

 of Walter Green' s the Chestnut Hill schists seem to end in a point, 

 and more compact and heavily bedded schists and gneisses to take 

 their place. In these occur a line of serpentine outcrops, but 

 whereas at Walter Green's and Blue Hill serpentine proper is in 

 very great excess, in these it is subordinate, the chief rock being 

 impure talc schist and antholite ('), the latter being quarried for 

 use as asbestos. 



Southeast of this is a wide area of the schists, mostly hard and 

 micaceous but embracing some outcrops of hornblende schist. 



On the Media Railroad, southwest of Swarthmore College, but 

 east of Crum creek, is a rock consisting almost wholly of horn- 

 blende and very slightly schistose, which is probably an altered 

 diorite. A similar rock was found in the tunnel of the Baltimore 

 & Ohio Railroad west of Darby creek. 



The same hornblende rock can be traced nearly north and south 

 from the outcrop at Swarthmore, the most southern outcrop being 

 on the right bank of the creek about a quarter of a mile south of 

 the bridge at Avondale. 



On the left bank of the creek, just below the !Media Railroad 

 bridge near Swarthmore College, and just east of the hornblende, 

 the mica schists are exposed in great masses, some of which contain 

 andalusite (sillimanite ') in imperfect crystals, perhaps due to 

 contact metamorphism. About a mile distant, in masses of quartz 

 found loose in a wood, were remarkably perfect andalusite 

 crystals, some doubly terminated. This mineral is reported also 

 from Leipervillc, a village on the Philadelphia and Chester road 

 near Crum creek. I have a specimen so labeled, which came from 

 an old collection and which difFei*s decidedly from that from near 

 Swarthmore, but I liave been unable to learn the exact locality. 

 Minerals from the Avondale quarries and from those on Ridley 

 creek have been widely distributed labeled as from Leiperville, 

 which is therefore a somewhat elastic term. 



A mile below Swarthmore are lai'ge quarries in gneiss resembling 

 that of Fairraount, but with the schistose structure more fully and 

 regularly developed and with joints more regular and less numer- 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 285 



ous, making a valuable building stone. The largest quarry is that 

 of Leiper & Lewis, which has been wrought for over fifty years. 

 Many thousand cubic yards of stone have been removed, much of 

 which has been used in important structures. The excellence of the 

 si one was recognized so early that one of the very first railroads 

 built in the United States connects these quarries with tidewater 

 a few miles below. 



In these quarries pegmatite beds, veins or sheets occur, carrying 

 many of the minerals occurring near Fairmount. Particularly fine 

 beryls and garnets have been obtained. 



Ridley Creek Section. 



The section afforded by Ridley creek is so close to that of Crum, 

 that it is very similar. Where Ridley creek crosses the schist 

 valley in the ancient gneiss, the western branch flowing along this 

 valley joins the main stream, which then follows the schist valley 

 in an easterly direction for nearly a mile before resuming its south- 

 easterly course. From this point west-southwestward the schist 

 valley becomes more prominent and wider, with a very straight 

 course. With but few interruptions it may be traced far into 

 Chester county, its floor, occupied by the Street I'oad, being com- 

 posed of Cambrian sandstone and limestone with the schists. 



Near the right bank of Ridley creek and northwest of the schist 

 valley is the Willistown (Chester county) serpentine, almost cer- 

 tainly a continuation of that at Castle Rock. 



Leaving the schist valley, here probably less than .2 mile wide, 

 the creek flows for over two miles through the southerly branch of 

 the ancient gneiss to Sycamore Mills, where the edge of the gneiss 

 forms prominent and high hills on both sides of the creek, and 

 serpentine appears."* 



"* It is but fair to say that Mr. Hall, in the map accompanying C*, 

 interprets this region very differently. Instead of a very narrow valley of 

 schists beginning a mile west of Newtown Square and widening gradually 

 to 500' at Ridley creek, bounded north and south by the ancient gneibS, he 

 continues the Bryn Mawr schists northwardly up Ithan creek and Darby creek 

 to Camp run, showing more than a mile of schists north of the Roberts road 

 at Darby creek and nearly as much north of the serpentine of Moro Phillips' 

 chrome mine, thence westward, including Central Square and Newtown 

 Square. Southwest of Newtown Square an area of the gneiss is shown rapidly 

 widening westw-ard and cutting off the schists on the right bank of Ridley 

 Creek. At Castle Kock and thence east to Newtown Square the schists are 

 represented as over a mile in width. 



But in this area are hundreds of bold outcrops of the typical gneiss ex- 




286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900- 



Southeast of the Sycamore Mills are the Blue Hill and Dismal 

 run outcrops of the serpentine, the continuation of the Walter 

 Green outcrop in jNIarple, then mica schists among Avhich are scat- 

 tered outcro])s of enstatite, antholite, serpentine and a coarse binary- 

 granite, including the celebrated Mineral Hill. Much of this area 

 is of the schists in which the serpentine rocks appear, accompanied 

 by a granite or aplite, sometimes free from mica, and often com- 

 posed almost entirely of oligoclase in crystals and crystalline masses 

 as much as three inches in diameter, with a small percentage of. 

 quartz. This appears to be in dykes or sheets as if intrusive in 

 the schists. Two localities in particular illustrate this, one at the 

 easterly end of Crump's serpentine quarry, west of ]Media, where 

 the granitoid rock had every appearance of a true dyke;'^"" the other, 

 on the left bank of Chrome run, three or four hundred feet above 

 the railroad near \Yilliamson Station, shows a mass of hornblende 

 rock striking about northwest, while within two feet of it is the 

 granitic rock striking nearly at right angles. An excavation here 

 would be interesting. 



Southeast of ISIedia there are the same schists as on Crum creek. 

 Approaching Chester we find the more feldi-pathic gneiss resembling 

 that of Fairmount. Two of the largest quarries of the region lie 

 on the left bank north of the Philadelphia and Chester road, 

 Leiper's and Deshong's, but the best ttone has been removed to a 

 depth too great for profitable working. At the northwest end of 

 Deshong's quarry is a tine exposure of pegmatite. 



Chester Creek Section. 



Chester creek rises on the southerly edge of the hydromica, flows 

 southeasterly across the mica schists, the serpentine, and the ancient 



actly like that elsewhere so represented — e. g., on the K;idiior aud Chester 

 road, all along Darby creek, a quarry on the rifjht b.ink of the creek north 

 of the Roberts road, the cut of tlic Philade phia and Dehnvare County K lil- 

 road, about a tenth of a mile norih\ve>t of the serpentine and of Fawkes run ; 

 between Newtown and Central Square, dip|dnj: S. 30° E. o()° to GO- and 

 S. 50° E. 65^ ; on the road from Newtown Squaie to Castle K ick, S. '25^ E. 

 To-* at the forks aud S. 20°, E. (50 close norih of the serpentine east of 

 Castle Kock. My view is, as elsewhere expressed, that west of Newtown 

 Square the ancient gneiss tableland is divided by a narrow valley of the 

 schists, the southerly portion narrowing rapidly and ending east of Chester 

 creek, while Mr. Hall continues it south-soutiiwest. making it unite with 

 and include the gabbro area of Chichester aud Lower Chichester. 



'** The qn;irry has been abandoned many yeais and the falling in of the 

 sides has nearly obliterated this. 




1900.] >rATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 287 



gneiss, and enters the mica schist valley spoken of close to AYest- 

 town school, near which the valley can be well seen and the hills 

 of ancient gneiss bounding it. Southwest of Westtown school the 

 southerly arm of ancient gneiss ends, and schists and schistose 

 gneisses only are found. Many of these, however, are of a decid- 

 edly harder character than most of those along Ridley creek and to 

 the northeast. They do not, however, differ from the harder strata 

 of the northeasterly gneisses, and in places between the two creeks, 

 as along the railroad west of Media, the hard gneiss may be seen 

 in narrow layers between the strata of soft mica schists. They do, 

 however, differ most markedly from the much harder and little 

 schistose rocks of the ancient gneiss to the north and east. ^'" 



In the north the best exposures are afforded by the West Chester 

 (via Media) branch of the Pennsylvania Railroad, which from 

 West Chester follows the west branch of Chester creek and then 

 the main stream to Wawa. The ancient gneiss can be recognized 

 clearly for some distance beyond the two-mile post from West Ches- 

 ter. About .1 mile beyond it the gneiss dips X. 25° W. \(r, and 

 150 feet further K 30° W. 15°. This is about .15 mile west- 

 northwest of Oakbourne Station. The cut just above the station 

 shows a feldspathic gneiss much decomposed, dipping N. 50° W. 

 60°. Below the station is a feldspathic gneiss, dipping about X. 

 W. 45°, and 100 feet beyond a similar rock, more decomposed, 

 with plicated beds, dipping N. 45° W. 70°. This is about 100 feet 

 north-northwest of the three-mile post. One-tenth mile beyond 

 the post is a cut in a feldspathic gneiss, weathering almost black 

 upon the surface, somewhat schistose, dipping S. 55° E. 50°, and 

 about .1 mile further a small quarry in similar but more micaceous 

 gneiss, showing a small distinct anticlinal N. 30° W. 55°, S. 60° 

 E. 50°, with a downward pitch to the northeast. The border be- 

 tween the ancient and newer gneiss I believe to be somewhere near 

 the three-mile post. The slopes are much more gentle until Cheney 

 Station Ls reached; this being the floor of the schist valley referred 



^^ Mr. Hall, however, regards them as the same as the ancient gneiss and 

 as occupying very irregular areas in Concord, Middletown, Aston, Bethel and 

 Upper and Lower Cliichester ; bat, according to ray observations, except in 

 portions of the last three townships, the rocks are identical in the areas diflEer- 

 ently colored and are very unlike those in the area to the north colored for 

 Laurentian. Into Bethel and Upperand Lower Chichester and probably fur- 

 ther the gabbro area of Delaware extends (F. D. Chester, Bui. of the U. S. 

 Geol. Survey, No. 59;. 




288 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



to as heading west of Newtown Square, the Street road crossing the 

 creek at Westtown Station about half- way between Oakbourne and 

 Cheney. Six-tenths mile above Cheney on the right bank of the 

 creek the schists are exposed. At Cheney the hill bounding the 

 Street road valley on the southeast crosses the creek, as does also the 

 very irregular county line (Delaware-Chester). The rocks exposed 

 seem to be almost exclusively large loose masses of a hard gneiss, 

 mostly hornblendic. They do not resemble those of the ancient 

 gneiss to the north, nor those of the same (topographic) hill to the 

 northeast. Blue quartz is absent, the boulder decomposition likewise. 

 They do resemble the hornblende rocks of Columbia Bridge. 

 ■Swarthmore, Darby, etc., and are not improbably altered diorites. 

 About .5 mile below Cheney and above Locksley Station is a small 

 cut showing a feature exhibited also to the westward near Concord 

 Station (Baltimore Central Railroad) on the west branch of Ches- 

 ter creek. This is a decomposing rock, weathering alternately into 

 laminated very soft schistose layers one inch to eight inches wide, 

 and layers of small, hard, angular blocks of very hard rock one 

 inch to four inches wide. Of the latter sixteen were observed in a 

 space of eight feet. The schistose portion appears to have been a 

 schistose gneiss; the harder masses, the interior of which appears to 

 be undecomposed, were examined for me by !Mr. Goldsmith, who 

 classed it as a diorite. Dr. Bascom classes it as a gneissoid gabbro 

 diorile. Northwest of Concord Station the same alteration is 

 visible, but on a larger scale. The hard rock here was determined 

 by Dr. Bascom to be a gabbro diorite. One dyke (?) of it is about 

 four feet in width. The intermediate strata have all the appear- 

 ance of decomposed gneiss and mica schist. Near the west branch 

 of Chester creek, about a mile nearly north of Concord ville, Dr. 

 Charles Schiifler discovered a single large mass of a gneissoid 

 gabbro with a reticulated structure. It consisted of feldspar, 

 quartz and garnet, arranged in narrow straight veins (?) often 

 several inches long, some parallel, others crossing it at various 

 angles, and often several in an inch with no general parallelism. 

 In the triangles and rhomboids thus formed is a black rock, chietly 

 hornblende and garnet. A short distance above Locksley Station 

 is a gneiss S. 80° E. 50°, then a highly ferruginous rock, followed 

 by a stratum resembling trap and a gneiss, weathering black, S. 

 60° E. d: 10°. About .1 mile below Locksley is a large quarry in 




\ 



1900.] NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 289 



a garaetiferous gneiss, dipping 30° to 70^ S.E. In the railroad 

 cut just below, the same gneiss dips 0° to 20° S.E. 



Above Glen Mills similar rocks, but rather more micaceous, are 

 exposed with southeast dips of 20° to 30°. Below Glen Mills is a 

 large quarry in similar rock, dipping S.E. ± 70^, and another 

 near Wawa. 



Near Glen Mills ai-e outcrops of serpentine on the right bank, 

 and also about three-quarters of a mile northeast; adjoining the 

 latter is a considerable outcrop of coarse pegmatite (Sharpless' 

 quarry) which has been quarried for its feldspar and mica. 



Below Wawa and near Lenni on the left bank are extensive out- 

 crops of serpentine with much coarse feldspar rock, probably oligo- 

 clase, containing verv little quartz, and almost no mica or horn- 

 blende, being evidently the continuation of the similar rocks west 

 of Media. 



Schists and gneisses not essentially different from those above 

 continue down the creek, but in many places they are deeply de- 

 cayed. In these decayed schists amethysts are found, some of much 

 beauty, also a quartzite filled with small crystals of tourmaline. 

 Near Morgan's Station (Button's mill). Dr. J. T. M. Cardeza found 

 a loose mass, apparently a sandstone, containing elongated quartz 

 pebbles. This was near the amethyst and tourmaline localities. 



On the right bank, near Morgan Station, mica schist with alter- 

 nations of hornblende schist dips S. 20° W. 70°. Here, in peg- 

 matite, Mr. Glanding Dailey recently discovered the rare mineral 

 monazite, its only known occurrence in the region. A little to 

 the westward was found, loose in the soil, very small but brilliant 

 transparent ruby-red crystals of rutile on colorless quartz crystals. 



On the left bank, near Bridgewater Station, is a large quarry in 

 rock resembling that of Lenni and Glen Riddle, but containing 

 more mica, with dips S. 60° W. 60° to 90°, S. 65° W. 65°, 

 while on the right bank a coarse pegmatite has been quarried for 

 its feldspar and mica. Near Upland a feldspathic gneiss was 

 quarried, and also between it and Chester. The beds of gneiss of 

 the Avondale quarries and of Deshong's and Leiper's, on Ridley 

 creek, do not appear on Chester creek. The ground is lower and 

 they are probably covered. 



Between the main stream of Chester creek and the Brandywiue 

 is a region of high ground with few good exposures, but some points 

 19 




290 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



of interest. In the longitnde of West Chester the northerly 

 branch of the ancient gneiss narrows rapidly and in Westtown and 

 East Bradford townships, its southern border appears to describe 

 approximately an arc of about two miles radius with a centre near 

 the railroad station in West Chester, serpentine outcrops being not 

 far from the margin. The Street road valley continues, but not so 

 distinctly as to the eastward. In it we find the Cambrian sand- 

 stone and limestone, apparently the outliers of the large areas west 

 of the Brandy wine. The easternmost exposure of the sandstone 

 is in the road running southwardly from Oakbourne Station, about 

 a quarter of a mile south of the Street road, on the farm of John 

 Wyeth. 



The exposure is poor, but the rock unmistakable and clearly in 

 place. Nearly a mile to the westward the Wilmington road crosses 

 the Street road. On the former sandy schists dip gently southeast 

 for over a mile, and among them, about a half-mile north of Dil- 

 worthtown, the sandstone appears in quantity, but its outcrop in 

 place is concealed. The schists north of it dip 15° to 0° S.E., 

 south of it 15° to 30° S.E. The outcrop must be narrow. About 

 a quarter of a mile west-southwest from this locality, on the farm 

 of Minshall Sharpless, the sandstone is well exposed in a small 

 quarry, the rock dipping N. 35° W. ± 80°. Southwest of this 

 about .2 mile, on the road from Dilworthtown to Birmingham Meet- 

 ing-house, and about .2 mile west-northwest of Dilworthtown. is a 

 considerable outcrop near the forks of the road, fragments only 

 being visible. Following the right-hand fork north-northwest 

 about .7 mile a small limestone quarry with a dip S. 40° E. 50° 

 is found on a branch of Radley run. This is near the western 

 border of Thornl)ury township, about .6 mile south-southeast of 

 Brinton's quarry and about a quarter of a mile nearly east of Bir- 

 mingham Meeting-house. South of it are abundant schist frag- 

 ments, with one outcrop iu place S. 30° E. 30°, with abundant 

 evidence of decomposed mica and hornblende schist. Inasmuch as 

 along the Street road, the north line of Thornbury township, 

 schists dip ± 15° S.E., it would appear probable that the structure 

 is monocliual. 



The Brandywine section from the ancient gneiss at the forks 

 three miles southwest of West Chester is as follows, the general course 

 of the creek being about S. 30° E., or nearly on the line of the dip: 




1900.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



291 



^.7 



q Q (I 



4.5 



4.7 

 4.6 

 4.7 



S. 30° E. 30°. 



S. 25° E. 25°. 



NoHh of East Branch : Ancient 

 gneiss. 



Schistose, porphyritic gneiss. 



Lenape : Porpliyritic with crys- 

 talline muscovite, and mica 

 schist. 



Hard feldspathic gneiss with con- 

 siderable mica and a little mica 

 schist, the gneiss schistose and 

 porphyritic with waves and 

 folds, but no minute plications. 



Street road : Sandy mica schists 

 not exposed at the creek, but 

 to the eastward, and more 

 largely to the westward, where 

 thev enclose Cambrian sandstone 

 and limestone. 



Half a mile above Brintoii' s 

 bridge : Hard plicated gneiss 

 and hornblende gneiss, gabbro 

 and pyroxeuite. 



Harvey's limestone quarry, N. W. 

 wall: Hard gneiss with mica 

 schist. 



Harvey s quarry : Limestone. 



Harvey's quarry, S.E. wall: 

 Hard gneiss. 



Hard gneiss, left bank. 



Schist and gneiss, some porphy- 

 ritic. 



Same, some coarse porphyritic 

 with decomposing feldspathic 

 micaceous rocks. 



Gabbro (?), left bank. 



Heavy-bedded feldspar and 

 hornblende gneiss. 

 S. 20° E. 85°. -) 



S. 30° E. 70°. - Hard plicated gneiss, left bank. 

 K 30° \V. 40°. ) 

 N. 30° W. 20°. 

 S. 40° E. 45°. Gneiss. 



Chadd's Ford Junction : No 

 good exposure. To the west- 

 ward a mai'ked valley with lime- 

 stone and sandstone. 




292 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1900. 



6.1 



6.5 



7. 

 7.5 



8.7 

 9.4 



S. 10° E. 



70° 



80°. 



S. 50° E. 50^ 



N. 50° W. 50' 



N°. 40 W. 80°. 



N. 



40' 



Garnetiferous schist. 



Very schistose gneiss. 



Schistose gneiss. 



Schistose gneiss. 



Schistose gneiss decomposed. 



Mica schist and gneiss. 



Hard hornblende schist and mica 

 schist. Altered gabbro (?j. 



Brookfield Station: Like the 

 last, but with included masses 

 of feldspar. 



Hard mica schist. Loose masses 

 of quartz and mica as if de- 

 composed pegmatite. 



Cossart Station. 



Delaware line."' 



Very hard, heavy-bedded mica 

 schist. 



Granogue Station. 



Mica schist and gneiss in the mid- 

 dle (jf a cut, hornblende schist 

 at both ends. The schist and 

 gneiss contain red garnets. 



Hard heavy-bedded hornblende 

 schist and mica schist. 



Guyancourt Statio)i. 



Mica schist gneiss and pegmatite. 



Thin-bedded mica schist. 



Hard mica schist and gneiss. 



Winferthur St<ttion. 



Hard mica schist and gneiss with 

 a little pegmatite. 



Gabbro. 



9.2 



10.6 

 10.7 

 11.1 

 11.2 

 11.5 

 11.6 



12.5 



Below Chadd's Ford the curvatures of the creek are so uunierous 

 and great that the distances on the dip line arc probably not 

 seventy-five per cent, of those given, and between Winterthur and 

 Cossart not much over fifty per cent. 



The Schists and Gneisses West of the Bra.xdywine. 



Thia region is mostly high, the slopes not rugged except toward 

 the Brandywine, and usually decomposition ha.s altered the surface 



'^^ Between Cossart and Granogne the creek and tlie railroad bend in the 

 form of the letter S and cross the State line three times. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 293 



rocks to a considerable depth. On the northern margin near the 

 ancient gneiss and also at a few scattered and insignificant outcrops 

 further south serpentine appears. In the midst and to the south 

 the Cambrian sandstone, with adjacent limestone, forms lines of 

 outcrop; two being about seven miles in length. Almost invariablj' 

 the dips are to tlie southeast, and not steep. 



While the principal streams flow from noi'th to south, there are 

 three east-and-west valleys. Of these the southerly two are lime- 

 stone valleys, and of these the northerly is the continuation of the 

 valley mentioned as heading near Newtown Square and followed 

 by the Street road, a valley of limestone with adjacent sandstone, 

 the bounding hills being of schist and gneiss. The southerly is a 

 similar valley, occupied by the Baltimore Central Railroad. The 

 northernmost of the three is that occupied by Pocopsin creek. 

 Like the others it is very straight, but limestone occurs at but one 

 insignificant locality, a quarter of a mile north of the axis of the 

 valley. 



South of Xorthbrook a section through about the middle of 

 Pocoi)siu township, nearly on the east line of East Marlborough, 

 and through the middle of Kennett would show, south of the 

 ancient gneisp, here not over .4 mile wide: (1) serpentine (Pocop- 

 sin Inn) ; (2) mica schists with gentle southeast dips, some loose 

 masses of talc schist, sufficiently abundant to indicate an outcrop, 

 and limestone (the talc and limestone 'on the Larkin farm, about 

 .5 mile south-southeast of Pocopsin Inn); (3) mica schist, abun- 

 dant in loose masses but without measurable outcrops ; (4) serpen- 

 tine (one mile nearly south of Pocopsin Inn); (o) the valley of 

 Pocopsin creek, on which, nearly a mile to the eastward, mica 

 schists dip S. 20° E. 40'; (6) a mile without exposures except 

 of soil derived apparently from mica schist; (7) garnetiferous 

 mica schists dipping S. 30° E. 40° on the Doe run road, .6 mile 

 west-northwest of the Red Lion Inn, followed closely by decom- 

 posed sandy schists, and these by (8) the typical Cambrian sand- 

 stone, dipping S. 25° E. 15° to S. 28° E. 50°, with sandy mica 

 schists immediately underlying, dipping S. 20° E. 25° (this sand- 

 stone to the westward borders the Street road limestone on the 

 north). A mile to the south is the northerly line of Kennett 

 township, and in this distance soil only was found. A quarter of 

 a mile south of the line, at Marshall's, now Still's mill, on the 




294 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



east branch of the east branch of Red Clay creek; (9) a very 

 hard hornblende rock of trap-like aspect, dips (?) S. 25° E. 55°. 

 This may be traced a mile or more to the eastward, and is probably 

 an altered diorite. Associated with it are masses of pegmatite. 

 The exposures of the latter are but of fragments. 8outb of the gneiss 

 is (10) a decomposed gneiss, with much rusty quartz, and south 

 of it (11) Cambrian sandstone with quartz! te and very sandy 

 micaceous rock, dipping S. to S. 10° W. 30°. This is just south 

 of Red Clay creek, where it turns from a nearly south to a west- 

 southwest direction, and about .3 mile east-northeast of the lime- 

 stone of the Sharpless quarry. South of the sandstone are (12) 

 decomposed hornblende and feldspar gneisses, dipping apparently 

 nearly 0^, with few exposures. The most prominent rock is a very 

 hard, tough hornblende gneiss, usually visible in large loose masses 

 only, but largely exposed in place on the east branch of Red Clay 

 creek at Pierce's paper mill, a little west of this section line, about 

 .75 mile southeast of Kennett Square Station. At this point a 

 single specimen of cancrinite, now in the collection of the Acad- 

 emy of Natural Sciences, was found many years ago by ]Mr. Jefleris 

 and Dr. Isaac Lea. So far as can be observed this hornblende 

 rock appears in narrow outcrops which cannot be ranged in a :in- 

 gle line, though a nearly east-and-west line will pass through sev- 

 eral of them. 



These rocks suggest an 'altered diorite. The_v contain plagio- 

 clastic feldspar, sometimes finely aveuturine, also titanite and 

 chabazite. While this gneiss appears to be the most prominent 

 rock, it is probably in very much less quantity than a more feld- 

 spathic gneiss, subject to more speedy decomposition. 



This hard gneiss, another outcrop further south, and that at 

 Still's mill were regarded by Prof. Rogers as rising in auticliuals 

 through the schists,'^' by Dr. Frazer as a gneiss older than the 

 schists,"' and by Prof. Lesley as three separated areas of the old 

 azoic gneiss. ^^^ 



Similar rocks can, however, be traced among the mica schists 

 into the great gabbro area of Delawax'e so well described by Prof. 

 Chester, who cites one locality on the Brandywiue just below 



152 I, p. 77. 



^^^ C*, 315, 316. 



1" Final Report, I, p. 79. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 295 



Jessup & jMoore's paper mill at which foliated hornblende rock, 

 much resembling that of Keunett, may be seen between " per- 

 fectly massive gabbro without the least sign of any distinct line of 

 separation between the two structurally different rocks. "^" 



This is certainly a most interesting locality, confirming veiy 

 positively the views of Mr. (Chester, who, I believe, was among 

 the first to urge a plutonic origin for these rocks, ^"^ though Prof. 

 Lewis still more forcibly published the same views, extending them 

 to other less massive rocks. ^'' 



A section about three miles west of the last, or nearly north and 

 south of Embreeville, shows the absence of the ancient gneiss, 

 which has ended west of Northb)-ook, and hence a great width of 

 ihe schists and gneisses, fr^m the hydromica on the north to and 

 beyond the Delaware line, a distance of some eleven miles. To 

 the northward we find hydromica schist, cut by the Downiugtown 

 trap dyke, near the headwaters of Broad Run, West Bradford 

 township. A half-mile south of Cottage schoolhouse, and .75 

 mile north of Romansville, these schists, dipping S. 70° E. 70°, 

 form a high bluff. This seems to be near their southern limit, < 

 which is characterized by a high ridge extending east-northeast 

 toward the Brandywine. South of the ridge is a prominent val- 

 ley, perhaps indicating the margin. This valley, somewhat inter- 

 rupted it is true, may be followed from Romansville to Hawley's 

 mill on the Brandywine, where, as already stated, the two series 

 may be seen close together with diverse dips. In this valley there 

 is a very small outcrop of dolomite, colored green by laic or 

 chlorite, on the farm of Young's estate, .75 mile west of the 

 Brandywine. 



On Broad run, a quarter of a mile south of this valley, the hard, 

 spangled schists appear prominently, dipping about S. 15°. A 

 half-mile south of this, on the Sti'asburg road, are soft mica 

 schists, with some very feldspathic schistose gneisses, nearly ver- 

 tical. About a quarter of a mile south of this we reach the line 

 of limestone outcrops already referred to, extending from Cope's 

 quarry, east of the East Branch, to Embreeville, on the West 

 Branch of the Brandywine, and probably to Doe run. These, as 



^" F. D. Chester, Bull. U. S. Geol. Survey, No. 59, p. 43. 



1^6 Proc. Acad. Nat. ScL, 1884, p. 248. 



'^' H. C. Lewis, Proc. British Asso. in Nature, October 8, 1885, p. 560. 




296 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



elsewhere more fully stated, seem to be overlaid and underlaid by 

 schists and gneisses, in which is the typical Cambrian sandstone 

 (Hayes' quarry, one mile west of the Poorhouse quaiTy). About 

 an eighth of a mile north of the Poorhouse quarry, decomposing 

 schistose guersses dip S. 40° E. 45°, hence under the limestone. 

 The schists over the limestone are from very nearly 0°, perhaps 5° 

 S.E., to S. 50° E. 15°. South of the quarry are plicated schis- 

 tose rocks contaiuiug feldspar and mica porphyritically enclosed. 

 The dip3 vary from 0° to probably 40° S.E.. while one clear dip 

 near Glen Hall bridge had the unusual direction of !N^. 70° W. 

 10° to 40°. One mile southeast of the Poorhouse quarry and .5 

 mile east-northeast of Glen Hall is an outcrop of steatite and serpen- 

 tine on the Lamborn farm, just north of a ridge of garnetiferous 

 schist, the latter dipping S. 30° E. 20° to 30°. The localities south 

 of the Poorhouse, also Hayes' quarry, are in Xewlin township, the 

 latter very close to the West Bradford line. Between the Poor- 

 house quarry and Embreeville is a low plain about .75 mile by 1.5 

 miles. It is not improbable that the existence of this plain is due 

 to the limestone. 



While at the Poorhouse quarry the immediately underlying 

 schists are concealed, at Embreeville they are well and clearly ex- 

 posed by a out of the Wilmington tS: Northern Railroad, not over 

 a hundred yards north of the limestone quarry. They are 

 spangled and garnetiferous schists, dipping quite regularly S. 50° 

 to 55° E. 30° to 45°. At the west end of the cut is a quarry iu a 

 decomposing, very white feldspar, the relation of which to the 

 schists is not clear. So far as it appears it is a conformable stra- 

 tum under or iu the garnetiferous schists. 



The feldspar has been mined for use in the making of pottery. 



It is a " soda orthoclase, with a slight admixture of lime feld- 

 spar and considerable free quartz.""* 



The limestone dips iu nearly the same direction as the schists, S. 

 45° to 50° E. G0°. About a hundred yards southeast of the lime- 

 stone, schists and gneisses with one granitoid stratum, with tour- 

 maline, dip S. 50° E. 55°. South of this are hills of hard mica 

 schists, dipping about 45° S.E., rising probably 250 feet above 



"* Prof. Thomas C. Hopkins, "Feldspars and Kaolins of Eastern Penn- 

 sylvania,'' Journal of the FntnkUn Institute, Vol. CXLYIII, p. 13, Julv, 

 1899. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 297 



the Brandywine, and exposing, a little north of the summit, much 

 ■white and much rusty quartz. The white quartz contains small 

 crystals of back tourmaline, and seems to form a distinct stratum, 

 striking about N. 20^ E. , observable, however, only in loose 

 masses on the surface. 



The summit of the hill and its eastern slope show fragments of 

 mica schist only, with much quartz, the surface of which is stained 

 yellow. 



About one mile to the eastward of this hill is the extensive out- 

 crop of enstatite serpentine, coarse pegmatite and trap, the well- 

 knou'n Newlin corundum locality, noted for its diaspore, beryl, 

 tourmaline and other minerals besides the corundum. This is less 

 than half a mile from the apparent western ending of the ancient 

 gneiss. The schists close to the ancient gneiss appear to dip away 

 from it. Thus .2 mile west of Northbrook N. 70° W. 67°, :N. 

 20° W. 25, a little further south nearly W. ± 45°, a half-mile 

 further south ± W. ± 30°. A half-mile to the Avest of the last 

 the southeast dip seems to be resumed. 



A mile and a quarter south of Embreeville the north line of 

 East Marlborough is crossed, and mica schist and coarse pegmatite 

 occur poorly exposed. Then follows a half-mile of schist soil, 

 with much loose quartz, but no rock in place, until the Doe run 

 road is reached. 



On the Doe run road, west of Unionville, the soil is of decom- 

 posed schist. About a half-mile west, a narrow belt of hard gneiss, 

 with spangled schist, crosses the road. The hard gneiss is only 

 about ten feet wide; its strike is N. 20° E., dip 90°. The span- 

 gled schist a little east of it dips 15° S.W. A half-mile further 

 west the road passes through a cut of garnetiferous mica schists, 

 dipping S. 30° to 50° E. 40° to 60°, just beyond which and to the 

 northward is Logan's limestone quarry, the limestone dipping S. 

 40° to 45° E. 40° to 50° under the garnetiferous schists. A 

 little over a hundred yards west of the limestone is an outcrop of 

 the sandstone dipping S. 75° E. 30°. 



South o'f the Unionville-Doe run road, exposures were not found, 

 but one mile southeast there is a quarry on Milton Thornbury's 

 farm at the head of the east branch of Red Clay creek, showing 

 a micaceous gneiss S. 60° E. 15°, with a vein of quartz dipping 

 S. 85° W. 70°. 




298 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900- 



Three-quarters of a mile south of this quarry is the Street load, 

 which here, according to Breou's map, runs S. 85° W. parallel to 

 the south line of East Marlborough township ; on this road sandy- 

 mica f'chists, with typical Cambrian sandstone, dipping S. 5 E. 

 15° to 20°, may be seen. South of this is the Street road lime- 

 stone belt. At Taylor's quarry, about a mile and a quarter west- 

 southwest of Taggart's cross-roads (Willowdale Post-ofiice), the 

 contact of the limestone with overlying mica schists (locally known 

 as firestone and used for lining limekilns), is well shown. The 

 mica schist dips S. 30° E. 20°, the limestone about the same or 

 more gently. In Pusey's north quarry, which is about a thousand 

 feet S. 50° W. from Taylor's, the same schists appear to the south- 

 east, and to the northwest mica schist, dipping N. 35° W. 70°. 

 In the northeast corner the limestone dips N. 25° W. 15°, while on 

 the south side it is S. 25° E. 50°, a clear anticlinal, if these dips 

 may be trusted, but the plications in the limestones of this region 

 are so numerous that they probabl}' cannot. The rocks immedi- 

 ately adjacent to the limestone on the northeast and southwest are 

 not alike. 



About 500 feet southeast of the Taylor quarry, mica schist ]and 

 gneiss dip S. 50° E. 50° with plications, and about a mile south- 

 southeast on Red Clay creek, close to the north line of Kennett 

 township, there is a quarry on the left bank in a very hard close- 

 grained mica schist, S. 50° E. 45°. while just below on the right 

 bank is one in a hard biotite gneiss S. 40°. South of this is the 

 mica schist hill on which the village of Kennett Square stands, 

 known to the westward as the Toughkenamou hill. This seems to 

 be chiefly of mica schist, some highly micaceous, some very sandy 

 and approaching closely the typical Cambrian sandstone, some 

 quite garnetiferous. The sandy varieties are best shown on the 

 road running north from Kennett, also north of the State road and 

 on the latter close to the west branch of Red Clay creek, .75 mile 

 west of Kennett Square, and on the left bank of the creek, west of 

 the State road (the main street of Kennett Square). 



Kennett Squai*e Station is at the southern edge of the village, 

 and about ninety feet below the State road. The railroad occupies 

 the valley in which limestone occurs, both to the east and to the 

 west. South of this is the hax'd, rather coarse horublende gneiss 

 before spoken of, well exposed] at Pierce's paper mill, .75 mile 

 southeast of the station, as stated in the preceding section. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 299 



South of tliese hard gneisses the schists occupy most of the area^ 

 and near the Delaware border there is another line of limestone 

 outcrojis which extends from Jackson's quarry, Hockessin, Dela- 

 ware, through Brown's quarry to the Nevins' quarries, with schis- 

 tose and garnetiferous gneiss certainly overlying and apparently 

 underlying the limestone. 



South of the Nevins' quarries are mica schists, poorly exposed, 

 covering a large area in northwestern Delaware. In these, be- 

 tween two and three miles south of the line of the Kevins' quar- 

 ries and the Brown quarry, are the Eastburn limestone quarries, 

 apparently with schists above and below the limestone, and perhaps 

 interstratified, as the three quarries with southeast dips are appar- 

 ently separated by schists and lie in a northwest-southeast line. 

 The south quarry shows plication?, but a general southeast dip. 

 One satisfactory measurement was S. 40° E. 25", but the north- 

 west side of the quarry is a w\ill of mica schists dipping N. 65^ 

 W. 65°. but not over 200 feet northwest of this is the second,, 

 and probably largest, quarry; no rock showing but the limestone 

 dipping S. 40° to 50° E. 20°. 



Before discussing the next section it may be expedient to trace 

 to the westward the northern edge of the mica schists, which wa& 

 previously traced from the Schuylkill to Broad run one mile north 

 of Romansville, West Bradford township, Chester county. About 

 three miles to the westward, on the West Branch of the Brandy- 

 wine, the northerly border of the mica schists is well defined, the 

 creek itself seeming to flow nearly on the line east of Modena,. 

 the hydromica schist on the left or north bank dipping nearly 

 south about 45°, while the hard mica schists on the right bank dip 

 quite irregularly S. 80° AV. 30°, S. 20° E. 50°, S. 10° W. 20°, 

 S. 40° W. 20°, S. 35° W. 30°. On the right bank of the creek 

 .2 mile north of Mortonville a quarry has been opened in a hard 

 mica schist, in which the quartz grains are elongated. West of 

 this the Strasburg road seems to be in the mica schists to a point 

 northeast of Ercildoun. 



Buck run affords excellent exposures. The hj^dromica appears 

 about .25 mile northwest of NcAvlin Station dipping S. 50° E. 80°, 

 while .15 mile above the station the mica schists dip S. 25° to 50° 

 E. 20° to 45°. West of this the hydromica schists extend along 

 the Highland road, while a mile to the south of that road the 




300 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



mica schists form low cliffs on the left (northwest) bank of Fawn 

 run, south of Harmony schoolhouse. 



In West Fallowfield township the line is between Cochranville 

 and Hudson's grist mill on Officer's run, near the Gap and New- 

 port turnpike, and on the Octorara in the vicinity of Steeleville. 



Through East Fallowfield, Highland and West Fallowfield 

 townships, the mica schists adjoining the hydromica, where not 

 decomposed, are heavy-bedded, largely of the spangled or con- 

 choidal variety, dipping usually to the southeast less than 50°, best 

 shown along the West Branch of the Brandy wine, where they form 

 some high and steep cliffs. 



South of this border of hard rocks are more quartzose and sandy 

 schists often containing garnets, from which the harder schists are 

 nearly free. 



A section about four miles west of Embreeville, that is nearly 

 south of Coatesville, passing through East Fallowfield, West Marl- 

 borough, London Grove, Franklin and London Britain, and the 

 valleys of Buck run, Doe run and the east branch of White 

 Clay creek, shows many alternations of the schists and gneisses. 

 To the north is the hydromica schist; following it, well exposed 

 on Fawn run and Buck run, are the heavy-bedded mica schists 

 with irregular dips and then the Doe run valley. 



In West Bradford, Newlin and East Fallowfield are outcrops of 

 the only distinct chlorite schist I have observed in Chester county. 

 Except its intense green color it resembles the more evenly bedded 

 mica schists, but can be quarried in flat slabs or flagstones used 

 chiefly for paving walks, etc. The best-known outcrop is Ful- 

 ton's quarry on the Speakmau farm in Xewlin township, about .4 

 mile north of Harvey's bridge on the Brandy wine, and about .6 

 mile nearly west of the Hayes sandstone quarry. It also outcrops 

 on the Strasburg road about a quarter of a mile east-northeast of 

 Mortonville, and also on the road from Mortonville to Doe run. 

 It dips S. 30° E. 20° at Fulton's quarry and appeai-s to be the same 

 at the other outcrops, though less favorable for measurement. ^Ir. 

 Walter J, Baldwin informs me that it occurs iu West Bradford a 

 little over a half-mile southeast of Romansville, and also south- 

 southwest, the former its easternmost exposure, the latter on the 

 farm of R. INI. Jefferis, where it has been quarried, and that there 

 is another quarry. Young's, iu Newlin township a little west of 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 301 



Fulton's. Its margins are concealed, so that no exact measure- 

 ment was possible, but apparently it is not a hundred feet thick. 



The Doe run region ditiers markedly from the rest of the area, 

 though the high hill seems to be of the same gneisses and schists. 

 It .was considered more fully when discussing the limestones. One 

 view of it is that its limestones are the continuation of the Cope- 

 Guest line merely interrupted for a very short distance by an anti- 

 clinal of sandstone and schists, that the schists which overlie the 

 limestone overspread the whole area west of Doe run. The former 

 is probably the fact, the latter more doubtful as some of the rocks 

 underlying the limestones may be traced into this westei'n area in 

 which no limestone has been discovered. It is certain, however, 

 that hydromica schists like those which bound the Chester Valley 

 on the south do not overspread the area as represented on the map 

 in C^ and in the text, page 105, et seq. 



This western area requires further and careful study. I have 

 not examined it as closely as the more easterly part, but so far as 

 observed the rocks are mica schists, often garnetiferous with but 

 little gneiss, and no hydromica schist such as forms th*? northei'ly 

 part of the South Valley hill. The rocks are much decomposed, 

 good exposures being few and far between, and even outcrops 

 comparatively rare. 



A few may be mentioned : East of Gum Tree, Highland town- 

 ship, mica schist and garnetiferous mica schist, X. 55° W. 55°. 



East of Rosenvick, in the same township, mica schist with 

 staurolite ; a dip opposite Michael McLoughlin's is N. 60° W. 20°. 



On the line between Penn and Londonderry townships, north of 

 Townsend's mill, hornblende schist poorly exposed. 



On the middle branch of "White Clay creek, south of Town- 

 send's mill, a very dark mica schist. 



On the road to Oxfoi'd, about a mile and a half west of Jenner- 

 ville, Penn township, a cut in garnetiferous mica schist, S. 65° 

 E. 45°. 



In Upper Oxford township, on the same road near Lincoln 

 University, a cut in mica schist near a branch of Big Elk creek. 



In Lower Oxford township, a half-mile north a little west of 

 Elk View Station, on a mill race, very hard garnetiferous mica 

 schist ; dip uncertain. 



Near the headwaters of the west branch of Doe run, near the 




302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



north'.vest corner of Londonderry township, ou the farm of Susau 

 Cochran is a rocli differing from any other of the region. It is a 

 very quartzose biotite schist, the layers being very well defined and 

 often twenty or thirty to the inch, and these layers excessively 

 plicated. Across these lajers are mica partings dividing the rack 

 into masses with roughly parallel sides. There appears to be but a 

 single outcroi? covering pei'haps a quarter of an acre. 



South of the Doe run valley is a hill traversed east and west by 

 the State road. Mica schist with much loose quartz seems to be 

 >the only rock. Three-quarters of a mile south is the Street road. 

 Along this mica schists dipping 30° to 45° S. 30° to 40° AV. are 

 exposed with trap, while both east and west of the southwest dips 

 are southeast dips. A little west of Cook's grist mill a schistose 

 •gneiss dips S. 30° E. 50°, and near by a very sandy schist about 

 S. ± 40° E. 15°. This is about a half-mile north of Chatham. 

 At Chatham Ave reach the westerly extension of the London Grove 

 •outcrop of Cambrian sandstone, dipping S. 25° E. 55°. South of 

 this no exposures were seen except at the limestone quarries rang- 

 ing through the central part of London Grove township. The 

 schist outcrops are so associated with those of limestone that they 

 have been discussed with them. In brief, there are rather high hills 

 of garnetiferous schists, with pegmatite and sandstone, all dips 

 being southeast and gentle, some of the schists being apparently 

 below the limestone and some very clearly above it. Similar rooks 

 and gneisses continue to the Delaware gabbro area, being hard and 

 forming bold bluffs near Laudeuberg, and surrounding, or at least 

 •on both north and south sides of, another limestone area. Usually 

 these are not well exposed, but along Red Clay c^reek they form 

 precipitous banks resembling those near Landeuberg, dipping quite 

 regularly S. G0°-70° E. G0°-70°, the rocks being undecomposed 

 and hard, but to the westward they are decomposed and soft. 



V. The Schists and Gneisses Lying between the Sandstone 

 OF the iSToRTH Valley Hill and the Limestone. 



These have been so referred to in discussing the adjacent rocks 

 that they require little more than mention here. The fact then is 

 that we have, between the well-marked Cambrian of the Korth 

 Valley Hill and the limestone, sandy mica schists, rarely caxTviug 

 •feldspar and tourmaline, indistinguishable in their appearance and 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 303 



lithological characteristics from some of the schists of the Pliila- 

 dephia and Manayunk groups; especially do they resemble the 

 saudy schists of the Chestnut Hill group, and those on the Schujd- 

 kill below Laurel Hill, and in the cuts of the Schuylkill Valley 

 Railroad southeast of West Laurel Hill. 



YI. The Schists and Gneisses North of the Sandstone. 



At Valley Forge, northwest of the sandstone, as has been stated, 

 are slaty and schistose rocks, northwest of which is a conglomerate 

 of blue quartz pebbles, resembling very closely the lower Cambrian 

 conglomerate so well exposed near Willow Grove and to the south- 

 westward. 



Only six miles to the westward is the Pickering creek gap. We 

 find here the easternmost of a series of outcrops of hard, usually 

 schistose gneisses which prevail thence westward far into Lancas- 

 ter county, bounded northwestward, in their easterly part, by 

 the northerly ancient gneiss, and their westerly by the hill of 

 Cambrian sandstone which stretches from west of the Gap in 

 Lancaster county to Wagontown, Chester county. These vary 

 much in Iheir constitution as shown in Williams' quarry near 

 Aldham, Charlestown township, where they dip S. 50° to 60° E. 

 60° to 65°, and in the adjacent railroad cut S. 80° E. 23° with 

 great regularity and are cut by a dyke eighty feet wide of trap. 

 This gneiss is very evenly bedded. It is sometimes hornblendic 

 and sometimes highly feldspathic, indeed almost entirely a white 

 feldspar; sometimes the feldspar is flesh-colored. This feld- 

 spathic variety contains small quantities of epidote. 



I have termed it provisionally the Chester county gneiss. 



Westward similar rocks are shown in all the gaps in the hill. 

 Some of the feldspathic varieties have weathered into kaolin, but 

 as a rule they ai'e hard and undecomposed. A common variety to 

 the westward resembles a pegmatite but has a brecciated aspect; 

 beds of vitreous quartz occur and are quarried. It appears to 

 widen westward and to occupy much of the space between the 

 sandstone of the North Valley Hill and that of Copper Mine 

 Ridge in western Chester and eastern Lancaster counties. 



The Serpentines. 



As to none of the rocks of this region has there been a greater 

 diversity of opinion than as to the serpentines, including in these 




304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



the magnesiau silicates, usually hydrous, of which serpentine is 

 the type. Mr. Hall, after very careful study in Philadelphia, 

 Montgomery and Delaware counties, concluded that all the serpen- 

 tines of the region were of the same geological horizon, and that 

 one of the most recent.'^'' Dr. Frazer recognized the two different 

 positions in which they occur, and states that the hypothesis that 

 the serpentine is a layer of magnesiau schist altered in place, while 

 the most satisfactory in many respects, does not account for all 

 that may be observed with regard to it."" Dr. Genth"^ showed 

 that most of the serpentine was derived from the alteration of 

 peridotite or bronzite. 



Prof. Lesley thought them due, in part at least, to a meta- 

 morphism of the " talc mica" (hydromica) schist formation, due 

 to the trap dyke which occasionally is close to the serpentine. My 

 own views have already been published,"' but in Prof. Lesley's 

 Final Report (p. 107) are not correctly stated: " And this agrees 

 pretty well with all Mr. Rand's observations of the serpentines of 

 Delaware and Chester counties, which he shows pretty clearly to 

 be interbedded among the ancient gneisses of that region." 



It was my aim"* to distinguish the hard, nearly black serpen- 

 tines, derived chiefly from enstatite or bronzite, which I believe do 

 occur either in or on the margin of the ancient gneiss, from those 

 that are clearly in the mica schists and at some distance from the 

 gneiss. These are usually of a lighter color, with less serpentine 

 proper and with talc, steatite and antholite, which are rare in the 

 former, and are probably altered peridotites in large part. The 

 serpentine north of Easton, by far the best exposed of any in the 

 region, appears at first sight to be interbedded in the ancient 

 gneiss, though I am convinced that the theory of Dr. Frederick B. 

 Peck,"' that it is due to the alteration of igneous rocks, and per- 



"9 C», pp. 13 and 14. 



"» C, p. 218. 



"' Second Geol. Survey of Pa., B., I, pp. G'2, 113 ; Amer. Jour., Sec. ('2), 

 XXXIII, 199. 



"^ Second Oeol. Survey of Pa., Assoc. Report, 1886, IT, p. IGll ; Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. of Phila., 1896, p. 21, 1890, p. 76, et seq. 



"» Second Oeol. Survey of Pa., 1886, IV, p. 1011. 



" If these steatite and serpentine belts " (tlie riiiladelphia steatite ami 

 the LaFayette serpeutiue) " becoiupared. their uu likeness seems to point to 



a different origin The serpentine belt has undoubtedly resulted 



from the alteration of enstatite.'' 



iG4 i>rivate communication to the author. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ' 305 



haps also of adjacent gueiss along a zone of faulting and shearing, 

 is in all probability the true one. I desire frankly to admit my 

 mistake in regard to the supposed pseudomorphs after staurolite in 

 the steatite quarry belt. The late Dr. "Williams examined my 

 specimens and identified them as pseudomorphs after olivine, and 

 with this Dr. Bascom's observations of sections agree ;^*'' so that 



..aisasiiassw"" 



Fig. 6. Serpeutiue after Olivine. Lafayette, Pa. 



there seems no doubt that all the serpentines in southeast Pennsyl- 

 vania are altered igneous rocks, either pyroxenites or peridotites. 

 Fig. 6 is from a photograph by Dr. Schaffer of a specimen from 

 Prince's soapstone quarry. 



^^^ Pi'oc. Acad. Nat ScL, Phila., 1896, p. 219. 

 20 




306 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1900. 



Mr. Hall, after examining the northerly Radnor belt, modified 

 his views, for he wrote {Annual Report, 1886, IV, p. 1617): " In 

 all probability there are two groups of serpentines." 



The change of pyroxenite into serpentine^^* is followed at manv 

 localities by the change of the serpentine into quartz, usually in 

 cellular masses and sometimes in stalactites. Fig. 7 is of a speci- 

 men from the Philadelphia and West Chester road, a mile east of 

 Newtown Square, photographed by Dr. Schiiffer. 



Fig. 7. Quartz after Serpentine. One mile east of Newlown tjqnare. 



To this recapitulation may be added some notes of observations 

 made since those papers were written. 



The Outcrops in Chester County West and South of the 

 Great Belt Xorth of West Chester. 



1. Cope's Serpentine. This is on the land of Caleb Cope, about 

 a mile northwest of West Chester, and is referred to in C^, p. 89, 

 in a quotation from Rogers as Cobb's serpentine. I described this, 



1** Second Geol. Survey of Pa., Annual Report, 18S6, p. 1614. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 307 



in one of the papers referred to, as occupyinp; a narrow stratum 

 in a synclinal of mica schists overlying a rock, apparently of the 

 ancient gneiss, though not so characteristic as to be beyond doubt, 

 and lying a very short distance north of undoubted ancient gneiss. 



Further examination has satisfied me that the rock underlying 

 the steatite is not as supposed, but merely a portion of the belt of 

 hard gneiss which lies north of the serpentine further east, and 

 which outcrops on the Brandy wine above Cope's bridge, referred 

 to by Mr, Hall as resembling the rocks of southern Delaware 

 county.'" It seems to be but a local variation of the schistose 

 gneiss, and is comparatively small in quantity. 



Another occurrence of steatite, but of still less quantity, was 

 observed about a half-mile north of Cope's, and the same distance 

 east of Copeland schoolhouse, where a narrow belt of talc schist 

 was embedded in the mica schist. These seem to have no relation 

 to the great serpentine belt. 



2. Black Horse Serpentine. About 1.7 miles west of "West 

 Chester the Strasburg road, having descended the gneiss hill on 

 which that city lies, crosses Black Horse run about a half-mile 

 southwest of the Cope locality and ascends a low hill on the sum- 

 mit of which stands the Black Horse Inn, an old landmark. This 

 is referred to (C^ p. 89) as follows: " A still more trivial local- 

 ity of steatite is at the Black Horse tavern on the road to Taylor's 

 ford.^^* Il is on the same general line with the previously men- 

 tioned localities of magnesian rocks." 



The rocks here are fairly exposed in the road cutting, and are 

 microscopically heavy-bedded hornblende schist with massive 

 hornblende, much of which has undergone deep decomposition. 

 Under the microscope thin sections show besides the hornblende 

 olivine and hypersthene, indicating a plutonic origin. In the de- 

 composed rock the steatitic mineral occurs in seams, from the 

 thickness of a knife-blade to an inch or more. Xo serpentine was 



^*' "In the Ticinity of Copesville, East Bradford township, the rocks 

 exposed along the east branch of the Brandywine creek are a coarse mica- 

 ceous goeiss identical with those on the soutliern edge of Delaware county. 

 Syenite is found in large quantities in the micaceous gneiss at the north of 

 Copesville. Its occurrence is similar to that as found in the vicinity of the 

 AVhite Horse Tavern in Eidley township, Delaware county " (C*, p. 61). 



168 Probably intended for Copesville or Cops's bridge. I am informed that 

 Taylor's ford is in another part of the county and that this crossing of the 

 Brandywine was not known by that name. 




308 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



observed nor any steatite except in the thin seams. Tliis outcrop 

 is unlike any other of the region. In parts the hornblende has a 

 massive trap-Uke character, but other portions seem to be distinctly 

 foliated with strike of N. 40^ to 60-^ E., dip uncertain. 



3. Worth Serpentine. This locality, noted by Rogers and 

 barely mentioned by a quotation from Rogers (in C^, p. 89), is of 

 interest, inasmuch as the relation of the rocks so very closely coin- 

 cides with what may be observed in Delawai'e county, the ancient 

 gneiss axis being absolutely continuous. Like the Radnor serpen- 

 tine, it forms a prominent hill, striking ± S. 40^ ^y., dying down 

 steeply westward at a small affluent of the East Branch of the 

 Brandywine. The locality is on the Worth farm, about one mile 

 S. 30° W. of Copesville, or Cope's bridge. To the south of it 

 the gneiss is prominent, though not visible in place close to it. On 

 the north a considerable dyke of trap, probably the diabase of the 

 Conshohocken dyke, appears within 300 feet, and then the gneisses 

 and mica schists dipping southeast or toAvard the serpentine. The 

 visible outcrop is not over 1000 feet in length; it is visibly 300 

 feet to 400 feet broad. It is distinctly foliated and dips K^. 30 to 

 40° W. 30° to 65°. 



A curious occurrence here is a stratum of serpentine of no un- 

 usual appearance, but containing disseminated magnetite in such 

 abundance as to exhibit strong polarity. 



About a mile and a half southwest of the Worth serpentine the 

 West Branch of the Brandywine and the Wilmiugton & Northern 

 Railroad, which here follows its right bank, give numerous and 

 good exposures of the gneiss on the southeast and of the schists on 

 the northwest, but no serpentine is visible. A mile further south- 

 west, near Isorthbrook, the serpentine again appears, and at this 

 point on both sides of the gneiss, which is here only a quai'ter of 

 a mile wide but forming a high hill. The outcrop of serpentine 

 — or rather outci'ops, for there appear to be two on the northwest 

 side of the gneiss — have not, I think, been previously described. 



They are inconspicuous and lie respectively S. 50° AV. five- 

 eighths, and S. 60° W. one-half mile from Northbrook, ou a road 

 running south-southwest, nearly parallel with and a little west of 

 the Newlin-Pocopsin township line, from the Brandywine just west 

 of Northbrook to the State road. Enstatite or bronzite accom- 

 panies the serpentine. About a ipiarter of a mile north of these 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 309 



a greenish mica schist dips ±45^ nearly due west. At North- 

 brook a road runs nearly south to the State road at Pocopsin Inn, 

 a point about a half-mile northeast of these outcrops. Near this 

 road the gneiss is exposed in place in the bed of a brook on the 

 northeast. Southeast of it and close to the summit and to the 

 State road signs of serpentine again appear, together with the feld- 

 spar porphyritic rock which appears at so many serpentine locali- 

 ties. The occurrence is so remarkable that I copy in full from my 

 notebook : 



South of Northbrook, heavy-bedded gneiss in bed of brook N. 

 15° W. 75°. 



South of this, ascending a steep hill, no rock in place but abun- 

 dant gneiss fragments for .2 mile. Then, at about 300 feet north 

 of the State road at Pocopsin Inn, loose honeycomb quartz was 

 seen, then as follows: 



10'. Serpentine in gutter of road, not well exposed, but 



apparently in place ; 

 20'. Concealed; 



20'. Mica schists, decomposed, poorly exposed; 

 40'. Schistose gneiss, highly feldspathic and full of nodules 

 of feldspar (probably orthoclase) mostly one-eighth 

 to one-half inch in diameter, but some two inches, 

 the rock much decomposed, dip zfc 20° S.E. It 

 varies from nearly mica schist to almost pure 

 feldspar; 

 3'. Feldspar (?) decomposed into nodules, with a stratum 

 zh 3 inches of a soapy schist ; 

 50'. Mica schists with interbedded schistose gneiss, not 

 porphyritic. Overlying this (topographically) is 

 apparently the same rock decomposed, and, within 

 three feet of the undecomposed , talc schist in loose 

 masses ; 

 50'. Mica schists, dip steeper southeast and then vertical, 

 then ± 70° K^Y. 

 These were observed on the westerlv and higher side of the road, 

 where the exposures were best. On the easterly side .was talc 

 schist, about ten inches wide, clearly intercalated in the mica schist 

 and enclosing feldspar, decomposing apparently into the talcose 

 material. 



From this to the State road was concealed, but on the State 

 road a quarter of a mile further west the serpentine makes a 

 well-known and conspicuous outcrop, and here the porphyritic 




310 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



schistose gneiss or granulite, with spaugled schists, appears east of 

 the serpentine and dips E. 10°. 



West of this on the State road, close to a road leading north- 

 west to Glen Hall, is an insignificant outcrop, to the west and 

 north of which schists poorly exposed dip northwestwardly prob- 

 ably under 30°. 



Going northwest on this latter road, and looking eastward, the 

 westerly end of Brag Hill (gneiss) may be seen as a promontory. 

 Close to the road running nearly west from Northbrook to the corun- 

 dum mines, the schists form the summit of a high hill, on the 

 strike of Brag Hill, and in this to the westward serpentine with 

 enstatite or bronzite appears, with much aplite, granite and peg- 

 matite, with some trap, covering an area over a mile in length and 

 of uncertain width, probably between a quarter and half a mile 

 wide. It is in this that the large quantities of corundum and 

 accompanying minerals have been found for which Newlin is 

 famous ; large quantities of feldspar are now being obtained from 

 surface openings. 



This is the westernmost exposure of serpentine adjacent to the 

 ancient gneiss, and it will be observed that as the gneiss disappears 

 beneath the schists, the flanking serpentine seems to unite in this 

 large outcrop directly in the strike of the gneiss. 



We ought here to find evidence of the structure, but the dips in 

 the schist are obscure. It is sure, however, that we have the con- 

 tinuous ancient gneiss from near Trenton to this point, and that on 

 both sides of it for a distance of nearly twenty-five miles we have 

 outcrops of serpentine of closely similar character, not continuous 

 throughout, but often so for miles, and in all cases where outcrops 

 can be observed very close to the edge of the gneiss. At times 

 between the gneiss and the serpentine there can be found a thin 

 outcrop of the spangled schists or gneiss, and especially the feld- 

 spathic porphyritic variety. Beyond the serpentine, on both 

 sides, are«the garnetiferous and spangled schists in large quantity, 

 which, or the feldspar porphyritic varieties, appear to divide the 

 serpentine Avhenever, as southeast of Malvern, at Sconneltowu, 

 and at Strode' s mill, it appears in double outcrops. 



Following the southeasterly margin of the ancient gneiss east- 

 northeasterly from the serpentine at Pocopsiu Inn, we fiml the next 

 outcrop at Sconneltowu, about two miles southwest of West Ches- 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 311 



ter, •where the adjacent rocks are similar — the hard ancient gneiss 

 on the northwest, the softer schists and very feldspathic gneiss on 

 the southeast. 



About a half-mile nearly southeast of the Sconneltown outcrop 

 are those at Strode's mill. These are two, close together. The 

 ancient gneiss is apparent within less than a quarter of a mile 

 north of the larger outcrop on the right bank of Plum run, but 

 the road from Sconneltown to Strode's mill does not expose the 

 hard gneiss, but only soft schistose gneiss, some highly feldspathic. 

 These have a dip of about 35^ S.E. Within ten feet southeast 

 of the serpentine is a small outcrop of the massive hornblende rock 

 -which appears at several outcrops of the serpentine. About .1 

 mile further southeast are schistose, very feldspathic gneisses with 

 a coarse granite of reddish feldspar and quartz S. 70° to 75° E. 

 50°, then another outcrop of serpentine, followed by coarse gneiss 

 dipping 30° to 50° N.W., beyond which schistose gneiss, feldspathic 

 and hornblendic (but to all appearance not the ancient gneiss), 

 dips S. 10° "W. 20°, forming Osbourue's Hill, in which years ago 

 a mine was opened for manganic oxide derived from the decompo- 

 sition of a massive manganesian garnet. 



About a mile further southeast is Brinton's quarry, which will 

 be discussed hereafter as its serpentine appears not to belong to the 

 range of outcrops under consideration. 



From Strode's mill the border of the ancient gneiss passes nearly 

 east-northeast, but along it no serpentine appears for some six 

 miles. At this point, the southwest corner of Willistown town- 

 ship, is a well-known and extensive outci'op, where the Street road 

 diverges from the Philadelphia and West Chester road. The 

 ancient gneiss is to the northwest, but apparently separated from 

 the serpentine by spangled schist containing garnets and pebbles 

 (?) of quartz and feldspar. 



About two miles to the eastward is the well-known " Castle 

 Rock " of massive enstatite or bronzite, forming a precipitous 

 cliff on the right (west) bank of Crum creek, while on the left is 

 serpentine and much honeycomb quartz from its decomposition. 

 East of this serpentine, which covers but a small area, is a narrow 

 outcrop of the gneiss, followed by another outcrop of serpentine 

 poorly exposed near the top of the hill, 1.5 miles west of Xewtown 

 Square, beyond which the gneiss again appears. Except of the 




312 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900, 



gneiss, all the prominent outcrops are on the south side of the 

 Philadelphia and West Chester road. The gneiss is exposed in 

 the road and on both sides of it. It is in this vicinity, but per- 

 haps not far east of Willistown Inn, that the gneiss appears to 

 project toward the west-southwest a prong which forms a high ridge 

 south of the valley through which the Street road runs, and the 

 floor of which is of schistose rocks. On Crum creek, which flows 

 southeast, this prong is nearly two miles wide, and on its southeast 

 border are the Blue Hill and Marple outcrops of sei'pentine, Avhich 

 can be traced northeast to a probable connection with the LaFay- 

 ette belt.^*' South of the serpentine outcrops mentioned are a 

 number of exposures in both Delaware and Chester counties. 

 These are mostly small, scattered and, with few exceptions, insig- 

 nificant compared with those to the northward. Those east of 

 Chester creek have been fully described.*'" Those in Delaware 

 county west of Chester creek are shown on Mr. Hall's map, C^. 

 All of them appear to be in the schists and schistose gneisses, and 

 they are of rock, usually light-colored and much softer than that 

 near the ancient gneiss, talc and antholite being often more 

 abundant than true serpentine, like the southerly outcrops to 

 the westward. Some show merely a small area of honeycomb 

 quartz. On but few of them have quarries been opened. 

 Probably the largest exposure is on the Smith's bridge 

 road, .1 mile east of Elam. Here some quarrying has been done 

 in a light-colored serpentine, very much jointed and showing abun- 

 dance of slickenside?, on the Husband farm; east-northeast of it 

 .2 is hornblende schist. 



Bullock's quarry, in Birmingham township, Delaware county, 

 one mile west-northwest of Elam, shown on the map C as serpen- 

 tine, was not in serpentine but in limestone. 



In southeastern Chester county somewhat similar outcrops occur. 

 Of these the most important is that in which Brinton's quarry"^ 

 has been opened in a pale-green serpentine, so uniform in texture 

 and free from quartz that it is sawed into shape for building pur- 

 poses by a toothed circular saw nearly as rapidly as if it were 



i«» Pi'oc. Acad. Nat. Sri., 1885, p. 407. 



"» //;/(/., M,<ircli 25, 1S90, p. 100, etc. 



"' C*, pp. 68, 298, 299 ; C^, Plates xiii and xiv. Probably more serpen- 

 tine for bnikling purposes has been obtained from this quarry than from any 

 other in the United States. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 313 



wood. After sawing probably two square feet of surface in about 

 three minutes, the teeth of the saw were quite cool to the touch.- 

 The rock is much jointed, so that there is a great deal of waste, 

 but much valuable stone is procured. A feature of the outcrop 

 is a huge mass of feldspathic rock, looking like a dyke. It is 

 mostly plagioclastic feldspar with tourinaliue and a little quartz. 

 Occasional beryls occur. 



!*^The nearest visible rock southeast of the serpentine is on the 

 Street road about .2 mile fi-om the quarry, a spangled gneiss in 

 thin beds, the partings being nearly plane surfaces. 



In 1892 a cut was made southward into the quarry, giving a 

 good exposure of the adjacent rock on the north. Next to the 

 serpentine was a narrow selvage of decomposing chloritic rock, 

 then a highly schistose gneiss, with abundant feldspar in rounded 

 masses, then a vein or dyke of coarse very feldspathic granite, of 

 which the mica, probably originally biotite, is now Jefferisite, then 

 a decomposing schistose gneiss dipping N. 40^ W. Qo^, or away 

 from the serpentine. East of Briutou's, trivial outcrops are said 

 to occur within a mile. 



About two miles northeast of Brinton's and east-southeast of the 

 old Pleasant Grove schoolhouse, fragments of a light-colored ser- 

 pentine are abundant in the soil. A small quarry for building 

 stone was wrought in 'this vicinity on the farm of Mr. James S. 

 Rhoads. It is now filled in. All these are almost certainly in 

 direct continuation of the serpentine at Brinton's quarry, which,, 

 however, does not appear on Chester creek, less than half a mile 

 to the eastward. 



West of the Brandy wine and south of the margin of the ancient 

 gneiss are several outcrops. Of these, the most conspicuous is 

 that at Pocopsin Schoolhouse, Pocopsin township, about a mile 

 west-southwest from the Brandywine at Lenape. A hard dark 

 serpentine forms two quite conspicuous hills, surrounded appar- 

 ently by schistose porphyritic gneiss, and accompanied by a coarse 

 tourmaline-bearing granite. Nothing but the serpentine is well 

 exposed. West of this, a well-marked valley, occupied by Pocop- 

 sin creek and by a parallel public road, leading from Lenape to 

 Marlboroughville, trends a little south of west, very nearly parallel 

 with the Street road valley and with the southeasterly boundary of 




314 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Pocopsin township. In this valley are two well-marked outcrops 

 of serpentine. 



One of these lies southwest of Locust Grove and about 2.2 miles 

 west-southwest of Pocopsin Schooihouse upon a small branch of 

 Pocopsin creek, quite near its mouth, and has an apparent irregu- 

 lar southeast dip. One measured was S. 45^ E. == 80^. The 

 outcrop is small, but a quarrj^ was opened on it. The serpentine is 

 much jointed and rather light in color. No other rock is exposed 

 near by. A little less than a mile to the eastward is a quarry in 

 mica schist S. 20° E. 40°. 



The other lies 1.25 miles further west-southwest, and about a 

 half-mile nearly south of ^Marlborough ]Meetiug-house in East 

 Marlborough township, very near the head of Pocopsin creek. It 

 is interesting because contact is shown with the garnetiferous mica 

 schist on the northwest, dipping S. 30^ W. 30^. The schist near 

 the contact seems to have been changed in part into serpentine, 

 and the strike changes suddenly from southeast to east-southeast. 

 The serpentine is of a dull yellowish green and has been quarried 

 to a small extent. 



The two localities are on a line about a mile south of the Pocop- 

 sin Inn serpentine, which b near the margin of the ancient gneiss. 

 About half-way between is an outcrop of talc schist, north of lime- 

 stone on the L. M. Larkin farm, near the Pocopsin-Newlin town- 

 ship line and about a mile south of Xoi'thbrook Station, Wilming- 

 ton & Northern Railroad In the adjacent soil are abundant frag- 

 ments of mica schist and gneiss, with some highly feldspathic 

 gneiss and some decomposing hornblende rook. 



About a mile and a quarter northwest of Northbrook Station, 

 hence northwest of the ancient gneiss, on the Lamborn farm, is an 

 outcrop of serpentine and steat'.te, the latter used by the Indians for 

 the manufacture of pots. The outcrop is not large. South of it 

 is a ridge of garnetiferous mica schist dipping S. 30° E. 20° to 

 30°, so that we have here a very remarkable repetition of the rocks 

 of Radnor and Lower Merion. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 315 



Chester county. Delaware conntij. 



N. Limestone \ / Poorhouse Limestone ? / Stacker's 



Schists, J ' * ' I quarry. Schists, ) * " " \ quarry. 



IS": } • • • l^^bor... S? } • ■ • ^Jn^geare-s. 



Serpentine, .... Northbrook. Serpentine Ead nor Station. 



Ancient gneiss, . . South of Ancient gneiss, . . . South of Rad- 



Northbrook. nor Station. 



Serpentine"! f Pocopsin Serpentine RosemonttoLa- 



>•...< Inn. fayette, 



Schists, J ( Schists, Bryn Mawr. 



S. Serpentine, .... Pocopsin Serpentine and stea- Soapstoue quar- 



creek. tite, ry belt. 



This may be only accidental coincidence, but it is curious. 



There is an outcrop of talc schist and steatite very close to the 

 west line of AVest Bradford township on Buck and Doe run, about 

 a quarter of a mile from its mouth and about a mile south of Mor- 

 tonville. There is mica schist on both sides; dips of N. 20" E. 

 45° and N. 85° E. 50° were observed. 



Very recently Mr. Walter J. Baldwin pointed out to me an out- 

 crop of serpentine apparently within the hydromica schist, or on its 

 southern edge. It is on the Steele farm, near the west line of West 

 Bradford township and a mile and a half northwest of Romans- 

 ville, on the second road north of the Strasburg road and the first 

 road south of the Highland road. It is light green in color, 

 weathering nearly white. Most of it is intersected by numerous 

 irregular joint planes along which decomposition has begun. The 

 masses not so intersected are very tough. It forms the nose of a 

 hill on the south side of the road, and is visible about 1000 

 feet east and west and 400 feet north and south, the hill striking 

 about S. 70° "W. No adjacent rock is exposed, the nearest being 

 the hydromica schist. 



In the southwestern corner of Chester county, extending thence 

 into Lancaster county on the west and into Maryland on the south 

 and southwest, is a series of very extensive outcrops, perhaps the 

 best known of any in the State, as in them were Woods' chrome 

 mine, Lowe's mine, the Hne pit, etc., the extensive sand chrome 

 washings and the mines of magnesitC; deweyite, etc., which sup- 

 plied Powers & Weightman, as a source of magnesia for many 

 years, and also Bye's serpentine quarry in Harford county, Md. 



The latter was opened on a very uniform compact serpentine, 

 about five miles from Conowingo on the Susquehanna. It is trans- 




316 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



lucent, and from a pale to deep green, taking a high polish and 

 making a beautiful ornamental stone, but the quarry was not suc- 

 cessful, probably owing to the great waste caused by the numerous 

 joint planes. 



An analysis by Dr. F. A. Genth, quoted in a circular of the 

 company, is as follows : 



Silicic acid, 40.06 



Alumina, 1.37 



Chromic oxide, .20 



Niccolous oxide, .71 



Ferrous oxide, 3.43 



Manganous oxide, .09 



Magnesia, 39.02 



Water 12.10 



Magnetic iron, 3.02 



S. G., 2.668; hardness, 4. 



For many years these serpentine areas furnished all the chro- 

 mium compounds used in the United States except very small quan- 

 tities mined in Delaware county. The region has, consequently, 

 been more carefully studied than the others, and I can add noth- 

 ing of importance to what has been published.*'" 



An outcrop of serpentine wholly within the ancient gneiss, and 

 the only one so located, unless possibly that east of Radnor Sta- 

 tion, which, if within, is very near the border, was discovered in 

 the spring of 1899 by Miss Ogilvie, a student under Dr. Bascom 

 at Bryn Mawr College. It is located near the Red Rose Inn, 

 north of the Spring INIill road, and about two miles east-northeast of 

 Villa Nova Station, a little west of the old Gulf road, and near 

 the source of Aramink creek. This would be probably three- 

 quarters of a mile from the northerly edge and a half-mile from 

 the southerly edge of the ancient gneiss. The rock has been 

 quarried for road purposes; no contacts are visible. The serpen- 

 tine is quite uniform, of a dull yellow-green color and not hard. 



Whatever doubt there has been as to the origin of the serpen- 

 tines, petrographic studies seem to prove that almost, if not quite 

 all, are derived from the alteration of a basic igneous rock, peri- 

 ls William Glenn, Trans. Ajn. Inst. M. E., XXV, 481 ; *Dr. Frazer, C*, 

 pp. 341-345 ; Dr. Frazer, C, p. 89, etc., 170. etc., 190, etc. ; Prof. Fred. D. 

 Chester : "All the rocks of this belt can be traced back to an original pyrox- 

 enic magma erupted through the azoic schists Avhich surround the belt" 

 {Second Geol. Survet/ of Pa., Annual Keport, 18S7, p. lOo). 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 317 



dotite, amphilwlite or pyroxenite, except in the comparatively few 

 occurrences in limestone. In several of the outcrops in this region 

 the unaltered mother-rock may be found in all stages of altera- 

 tion, and this macroscopically. This may be seen at Rose's quarry, 

 opposite LaFayette on the Schuylkill, and to the westward, and on 

 the same belt near Darby creek and in Marple; near the corundum 

 mines in Xewlin, Chester county, and at Radnor. At most locali- 

 ties the original rock seems to have been an orthorhombic pyroxene 

 — enstatite or bronzite. In the neighborhood of Glen Riddle, 

 southwest of ]\Iedia, some of the serpentine is after actinolite. 



There are some facts in relation to the serpentines in this region 

 which have received no adequate explanation: 



1. The occurrence of the dark pyroxenite serpentine on both 

 sides and close to or within the ancient gneiss from the Schuylkill 

 westward, but not eastward. If due to the alteration of an intru- 

 sive igneous rock, its occurrence along a definite horizon is remark- 

 able. If a sheet, it should be more closely continuous."* 



2. The occurrence of parallel belts of peridotite serpentine sep- 

 rated by schistose rocks from the pyroxenite serpentine on both 

 sides of the ancient gneiss. 



3. The occurrence at many serpentine localities of an acid rock, 

 chiefly of tri clinic feldspar, in the form of veins or dykes. Can it 

 be explained by magmatic differentiation ? 



4. The occurrence at many localities of a massive amphibolite 

 on the southeasterly side of the serpentine outcrops, at Willistowu, 

 near Newtown Square, Strode' s mill, the soapstone quarry near 

 LaFayette and the outcrops in southwest Chester county, resem- 

 bling in this the dun}-te beds of North Carolina.^"* 



Besides the chromium, which is common in the enstatite serpen- 

 tine, nickel has been found in very small quantities as sulphide, 

 millerite and hydrous silicate, genthite, at the soapstone quarry, 

 near LaFayette, and as genthite and also in wad and in pimelite 

 northwest of Radnor Station. 



Since the above was written I have found on the serpentine south 

 of Newtown Square, Delaware county, a very dark-brown, almost 

 black rock, apparently wholly unaltered and which appears to be 



"3 Cf. Proc. Acad. Nat. Set., Phila., 1890, pp. 114, 118, etc. 



"* Dr. Julien, Proc. Boston Soc. iVa^ History, Vol. XX, p. 11, Dec. 6 



1882. ' 




318 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



hyperstlienite;"' some of the crystalline masses composing it are 

 nearly an inch across. 



Pegmatite. 



In the schists and gneisses, particularly in the southeastern part 

 of the area, are more or less irregular masses of pegmatite, usuall}' 

 composed of microlin, albite, quartz and muscovite, the minerals 

 ocurriog in abundance relatively as named, with biotite, tourmaline 

 and garnet in small quantity, and more rarely ber}'l, autunite and 

 other uranium minerals. 



Some of these masses seem to occupy fissures in the gneiss with 

 well-defined walls; others to be lenticular masses wholly suriounded 

 by the gneiss, while others seem to grade imperceptibly into the 

 gneiss. The first may be seen at Deshoug's quarry on Ridley 

 creek, northeast of Chester, where a large mass is exposed show- 

 ing sharp but very irregular contacts with the gneiss. In this 

 quarry, as indeed in ail the quarries of that vicinity, pegmatite 

 was comparatively abundant, but usually in isolated masse?, manv 

 of them quite small. It occurred also in the Fairmount quarries, 

 at Frankford, and indeed at almost every place near Philadelphia 

 and Chester at which quarrying has been done extensively. It 

 occurs in large quantity in the porphyritic gneiss, composed almost 

 wholly of a reddish and a chalky Avhite feldspar, with very little 

 quartz and still less mica, with tourmaline rarely and none of the 

 rare minerals. 



In the more schistose rocks to the northwestward it is compara- 

 tively rare, though a large mass was quarried immediately south- 

 east of the ancient, gneiss near LaFayette, ^Montgomery county, 

 almost wholly feldspar. 



Southwest of Philadelphia it occurs at a number of localities, at 

 some of which it has been mined extensively, mostly for use by 

 manufacturers of china, etc. ]\Iost of these are open cuts, but 

 at the largest, near Elara, southwest of Brandywine Summit, there 

 are extensive underground workings. Most of these have been 

 described by Prof. Thomas C. Hopkins.'"^ 



There are some localities in addition to those referred to by Prof. 

 Hopkins that may be mentioned: 



"' Dr. Bascom in a private communication identifies it as hyperstheue. 

 ^""^ Journal Franklin InKfitiite, July, 1S9.», Vol. CXLVIII, No. 1. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 319 



1. Chandler's Hollow. This was quarried about 1860-70, and 

 yielded besides feldspar much muscovite, most of which was filled 

 Avith markings of magnetite, making fine specimens, but ruining 

 the mica for commerce. This was not far south of the Brandy- 

 wine Summit mines, southwest of Elam. 



2. Craig's Pits, about a mile and a quarter southwest of Chadd's 

 Ford. This is an open cut into the side of a hill ; the feldspar 

 seems to be an irregular lenticular mass or vein with considerable 

 muscovite. The feldspar seems of good quality and a very large 

 amount has been quarried. 



r' 3. Butler's Pits, one-half mile south -southeast of Fairville 

 Station. These are in level ground, and have been excavated to 

 and below water level. From the size of the opening an immense 

 quantity of feldspar must have been taken out, but when visited 

 in 1897 work had ceased. 



4. Swayne's Quarry. This is about half a mile south of But- 

 ler's. The pegmatite seems to be an irregular chimney -like mass, 

 which has been followed to a depth of nearly one hundred feet. 

 At this place the feldspar was subordinate to the muscovite, 

 which when the mine was in full operation was obtained in 

 crystals, some measuring eighteen inches across and being over a 

 foot in length. 



Much of it had the magnetite markings, but a large amount of 

 valuable mica was obtained. 



West of Avondale as well as north of it are several outcrops of 

 pegmatite, one of which, immediately east of and in contact with 

 the limestone of the Avondale lime and stone quariy, was wrought 

 to some extent, but not largely. It seems to be a well-defined 

 vein or bed, striking nearly northwest and southeast. At nearly 

 or quite all of these the chief feldspar is microclin. 



Adjacent to the serpentine areas are often outcrops of feldspar, 

 generally, if not always, tri clinic. Two only of these are now 

 wrought, those in Xewlin township near Unionville, and at Sylmar 

 in West Nottingham. Some of the other outcrops have yielded 

 cabinet specimens, but have not been tried commercially. That a 

 mile west of Media has yielded fine sunstone and moonstone, 

 beryl and columbite, some of the moonstone and beryl furnishing 

 gems. That near Dismal run furnished a nearly transparent 

 variety, as did also that at Brinton's quarry, Westtown, (.Chester 




320 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



county, and Blue Hill, Upper Providence, Delaware county, 

 "which furnished aLio the baryta-feldspar cassinite. 



The feldspar from Sylmar resembles that obtained at the famous 

 Dixon's quarries (and Way's quarry) in New Castle county, 

 Delaware, but is remarkably tough and not easily cleaved, so that 

 before crushing and grinding for market it has to be roasted. 



Besides the locality mentioned by Prof. Hopkins near Boothwyn 

 Station (Bunting's quarry, Bethel township, Delaware county), 

 there are many outcrops in that township and the adjoining one, 

 Chichester, which have been explored to a slight extent for their 

 well-defined crystals of feldspar, garnet and beryl. One remark- 

 able one south of Boothwyn was very slightly exposed in low 

 ground on a small affluent of Jsaaman's creek. 



It consisted almost entirely of microclin and quartz, but almost all 

 the microclin was well crystallized, the crystals with rather rough 

 surfaces, but sometimes complete and doubly terminated. They 

 varied in length from an inch to a foot and were usually about 

 twice as long as broad. Quartz occurred in the feldspar in the 

 usual graphic granite form and also filled the interstices between 

 the feldspar crystals. One specimen was nearly an octahedron in 

 shape, with deep grooves parallel to a basal plane. This would 

 seem consistent with the theory that the feldspar crystallized first, 

 the quartz occupying the space remaining; but fx'om the same place 

 I have, imbedded in the microclin, a crystal of quartz of its own 

 hexagonal form. 



A little west of Boothwyn was a narrow vein or dyke about two 

 feet wide in decomposed schists, composed of quartz and feldspar, in 

 which were found fine crystals of garnet; this iiad perfectly 

 straight well-defined smooth walls, striking N. 35^ E. nearly 

 vertical. 



The feldspars of this region are worthy of careful and systematic 

 study. 



At a number of localities the pegmatite has decomposed and 

 become wholly kaolin. Many of the pegmatite outcrops show 

 much kaolin, but at none of the kaolin outcrops have I seen unde- 

 composed pegmatite. There is, however, much intermixed quartz 

 and mica, but both almost always in very small masses, Httle more 

 than sand. 



There is, however, no appeai'ance of water sorting, the quartz, 




1900.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



321 



mica and kaolin being evenly intermixed. It would appear, there- 

 fore, as if the pegmatite which gave rise to the kaolin was a much 

 finer grained rock than that quarried for its feldspar. 



Prof. Hopkins, in the paper already referred to, has described 

 the kaolin deposits. There is one curious fact to which I would 

 call attention — the occurrence of limestone with nearly every kaolin 

 deposit, viz., near Glen Loch (Chester Valley), Kaolin (Broad 

 Valley), near Avondale, Hockessin, Elam, and also at Peach's 

 kaolin mines in Delaware, south of Hockessin. At all these six 

 localities limestone occurs close to the kaolin. The Wagontown 

 locality may be an exception, but inasmuch as the Cambrian sand- 

 stone which underlies the limestone occurs just north of Wagon- 

 town, the probability is that it is not an exception, simply that the 

 limestone is not exposed. 



Trap Dykes. 

 There are in Pennsylvania, southeast of the vicinity of the Red 

 Rocks, two well-defined trap dykes, besides a number of exposures 

 of igneous rocks not yet reducible to a system. 



Fig. 8.— Columnar Diabase. The Gulf, Montgomerj' Co. , Pa. 

 The easternmost of these is the ^veil-known Conshohocken trap 



21 




322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



dyke, specially studied by Prof. H. Carvill Lewis, and thought by 

 him to have a linear extension of some eighty miles, though 

 usually less than a hundred feet in breadth. Its best exposures 

 are at Conshohocken and at Gulf creek. A.t West Conshohocken 

 there was exposed an offset cutting the hydromica schists to the 

 eastward of the main mass. It was only two or three feet in 

 breadth. No change in the adjacent schist was observed. 



The columnar structure is best shown at Spring Mill and at the 

 Gulf, as well shown in Fig. 8, from a photograph taken by Dr. 

 Charles Schiiffer. A remarkable feature is the absence of any notice- 

 able change in the rocks cut by it. Its strike is very nearly that of 

 the limestone, mica schist and hydromica schist, but it passes through 

 all of them. Near Flourtown it is in the limestone of the Plym- 

 outh Valley. It then crosses acutely from the north to the south 

 side of the hydromica schist hill, and in the cut of the Schuylkill 

 Valley Railroad at Conshohocken is in the southeasterly limestone 

 (that of Cream Valley). Directly across the river, in West Con- 

 shohocken, it is again in the schist. '" 



Near the Delaware county line it crosses the limestone, being 

 north of it at the Gulf, and south of its course north of St. 

 David's Station, where it is in or on the margin of the garnetifer- 

 ous mica schist, and this seems to be its position also at Wayne, 

 where it is exposed in the railroad cut northwest of the schist and 

 southeast of Cambrian sandstone. West of Wayne the outcrops 

 are not continuous, but when found are in the comparatively low 

 ground between the ancient gneiss hill on the southeast and the 

 hydromica hill on the northwest. In Willistown township, Chester 

 county, immediately west of the Easttown line, it appears on the 

 road next south of the State road, and apparently exists in three 

 separate branches, one north of the serpentine, the next in it and 

 the next south of garuetiferous mica schist. All are within a 

 thousand feet. The dyke crosses the State road close to the 

 easterly line of East Goshen, and thence westward appears to be 

 on the north border of the serpentine, though north of Goshenville 

 it cuts it. Northwest of the Gen. Greene Hotel the serpentine 

 appears to end in a rounded hill and the trap is concealed. South- 



'" T^e exposure on the east side of the river indicated that the limestone 

 underlies the schist at that point, both having, however, nearly the same 

 dip as if folded or rather crumpled t<igether. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323 



west of this the trap may be traced, but no serpentiue until the 

 east line of West Goshen is crossed. About a mile west of this 

 line, and near the Pennsylvania Railroad, the serpentine again 

 appears in great quantity, with the trap on the northerly side. 

 Thence westward the trap skirts the north side of the serpentine 

 ridge to its termination near Hoopes' mill. On the road passing 

 the mill, the continuation of New street, West Chester, exposures 

 are poor, but loose masses of serpentine are north of trap masses; 

 this is near the westerly line of West Goshen. In East Bradford, 

 which adjoins, the trap is prominent on the side of the hiU north 

 of Cope's limestone quarry and south of Copelaud Schoolhouse. 

 A half-mile to the westward is the East Branch of the Brandy- 

 wine, on which just north of Cope's bridge loose masses are abun- 

 dant, but the outcrop here appears to be somewhat south of the 

 strike of the easterly outcrops. West of Cope's bridge it is con- 

 spicuous along the Strasburg road toward Marshallton, West Brad- 

 ford. Southeast and southwest of Marshallton it is exposed nearly 

 in line with the outcrops on the Strasburg road, but also northwest 

 of the serpentine at Worth's in East Bradford, about a mile south- 

 east of Marshallton, considerably south of the outcrops on the Stras- 

 burg road. West of this is the valley of Broad run, but I am not 

 aware of any exposures until the Newlin serpentine is reached. 

 This is about two miles west-southwest of the outcrops near Mar- 

 shallton. Going west-southwest the first exposure is on a small 

 affluent of the West Branch of the Brandywine about three-quarters 

 of a mile west of Xorthbrook. Close southwest of this are two 

 roads about a quarter of a mile apart leading nearly south from 

 Glen Hall to the State road. On the easterly are serpentine, peg- 

 matite and mica schists, while on the westerly is a large outcrop of 

 trap, in loose masses only. Between these roads is the locality 

 famous for its large beryls, giving name to the elevation, Beryl 

 Hill. 



West of Beryl Hill is Corundum Hill. On its easterly flank 

 and near the summit there is much trap, but only in loose frag- 

 ments apparently within the serpentine. 



About a mile and a half nearly southwest of Corundum Hill, 

 and about a half-mile southwest of Unionville, there are outcrops 

 along the State road a little northwest of the diverging from it of 

 the Little Street road. 




324 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1900- 



Thus far the outcrops are probably of the Conshohocken dyke 

 much interrupted aud somewhat curved, but the outcrops to the 

 southwest are scattered and not referable to a line. The northeast- 

 ern one is about two miles nearly west of that last mentioned, and 

 a little west of the E. S. Baily limestone quarry west of Marl- 

 borough Inn (Upland). This also is on the State road, and is 

 about a mile west of the east line of West ISIarlborough. On the 

 same road a mile further west is another outcrop. 



About a mile south of the State road is the Street road, on the 

 line between West Marlborough and London Grove townships. 

 Along this road are several outcrops, the easternmost nearly south 

 of the outcrops on the State road last mentioned. The next is a 

 half-mile further west near Woodville, the next three-quarters of 

 a mile further west and a little east of the Pomeroy & Newark 

 Railroad, both on the Street road and on a lane running south 

 from it. 



All these outcrops west of Unionville are of loose masses only and 

 none of them are extensive. To the southwest are other similar 

 outcrops, some of which are probably continuations of the dyke 

 next to be described. 



The Downingtown Dyke. 



This dyke was described"' as extending in a nearly straight line 

 from a bold outcrop on the Brandywine, over twenty feet high at 

 Downingtown, in a south-southwest direction into Penn township, 

 being largely exposed only occasionally, as on the Brandywine in 

 Downingtown and on the Pennsylvania Railroad a quarter of a mile 

 west of Downingtown Station, where a cut some twenty feet in depth 

 has been made through it, but clearly to be traced by intermediate 

 loose masses. It is here probably 125 feet in width, with limestone 

 visible ten feet east of it and very little further west of it, and 

 strikes about N. 15° E.'" 



"8 Rand, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philadelphia, 1«95, p. 540. 



"• Dr. Frazer, Proc. Aead. Nat. Sci., 1896, p. 20(5, apparently regards my 

 brief description of this dyke as a reflection upon his work, saying that " he 

 refrained in a great many instances from connecting together sci\ttered local- 

 ities where trap fragments occurred, on the a>sumption that these repre- 

 sented a dyke, because he was often nnahle to nssure himself that these 

 fragments where anywhere near the place of their origin,'' and, further, 

 " the second dyke which hegins in Downingtown is probably the same to 

 which the following reference is made (C*, p. 274); at several points on the 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 325 



Recently Mr. Walter J. Baldwin, formerly of Romansville, and 

 now Professor in the Manual Training High School of Brooklyn 

 called my attention to the fact that the dyke does not end with 

 the outcrop on the Brandywine, and took me to a series of out- 

 crops extending in a north-northeast direction for a distance of 

 three miles up and over the summit of the North Valley Hill, the 

 trap being in a nearly straight narrow line and in quantity. For 

 this distance there seems no reasonable doubt of the continuity of 

 the dyke. 



The road to Lionville diverges nearly north from the Lancaster 

 turnpike at a point about .7 mile east-northeast of Dawnlngtown 

 railroad station. After going north a little over a half-mile, it 

 turns north-northeast. Near this bend the dyke may be seen 

 crossing the bend — i.e., crossing the road twice and bearing a little 

 more northwardly than the road. A quarter of a mile or less 

 beyond this curve, a road goes northward through the woods. The 

 dyke crosses this road, a little north of the road to Liou^'ille. 

 Further north there is an east-and-west road, on or very near the 

 north line of East Cain township. On this road, about a quarter 

 of a mile east of the woods road, it is again apparent on the land 

 of Jacob Lewis, and Mr. Baldwin informed me that it occurs also 

 on the intermediate land of Clara Fox. Beyond this I did not 

 follow it, but Mr. Baldwin states that he has traced it across 

 Uwchlan township, south of the graphite mines near Byers' Sta- 

 tion, across West Vincent, crossing the two branches of Birch run 

 a little west of Birchrunville, crossing French creek at Cook's 

 ford in East Vincent township, and close to Brownback's Church 

 on the Ridge road in East Coventry, the Schuylkill at Frick's 

 lock below Sanatoga Station, and through Sanatoga Park to the 



road leading south from the Downingtown railroad station occur fragments 

 of trap." 



In the paper referred to the writer intended and made no criticism of any 

 one, but it seems to him that to identify "fragments of tiap " on the road 

 south of Downingtown Station with a dyke more than a hundred feet wide, 

 quarried to a depth of many feet, west- north west and southwest and not 

 south of Downingtown, is possible only upon the assumption that Dr. 

 Frazer never saw the exposures. No geologist can be expected to see every- 

 thing. It will be many years before it will be difficult for new facts to be 

 discovered. 



The writer would also contend that in a non-glaciated region numerous 

 trap masses in a straight line with a large and unmistakable dyke, all being 

 of a uniform coarse diabase, are evidence of connection though possibly not 

 of the absolute continuity of a dyke. 




326 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



large outcrop at Pruss' Hill, Mcntgomery county. If the dyke is 

 continuous, of which there seems little doubt, it is triassic diabase, 

 an offshoot from the great outbursts through the Red Rocks near 

 Pottstown, and must be more than thirty-four miles long. Near 

 Downingtown, concentric or boulder decomposition is well shown 

 in the sides of the railroad cut. 



Southwest of Downingtown the dyke is exposed at intervals 

 toward and at Mortonville, also on Buck run and northwest and 

 southwest of Doe run village, thence almost continuously and very 

 largely to the soutli bend of the Pomeroy & Newark Railroad. 

 Thus far there seems no reasonable doubt that all the outcrops 

 should be referred to one dyke. The next two are probably, but 

 not certainly, of the same ; one of them is on the line between 

 London Grove and Londonderry townships, very near ihe north- 

 west corner of Penn, and about two miles west of Chatham. It 

 is small, as also is the next, a mile south -southwest on the road 

 from West Grove to Daleville, .1 mile east of Townsend's mill, 

 but these probably belong to the same. 



The next two are about five miles west -southwest on branches of 

 Big Elk creek, respectively a half and three-quarters of a mile 

 southwest of Lincoln University. 



The rock at all these outcrops is a diabase. That of the Con- 

 shohocken dyke, uniformly fine-grained in texture, has been 

 described by Dr. Bascom.**" That of the Downingtown dyke is 

 much coarser iu grain, and very much alike at all the outcrops. 

 That near B.Tily's quarry is of much finer grain, finer even than 

 that of the Conshohocken dyke, as is also that east of Townsend's 

 mill, Avhile that west of Chatham and also that at the Street road 

 and Pomeroy & Newark Railroad is intermediate. 



That of the easterly outcrop on Big Elk creek seems to have 

 much less feldspar than the others, while that of the westerly 

 shows a coarse variety and also one very fine-graiued. 



Inasmuch as the coarseness or fineness may be due simply to 

 slower or more rapid cooliug it cannot be regarded as an important 

 feature. Indeed, as a rule we should expect to find a coarser grain 

 in the middle ])ortions of a dyke and finer towards the edges, as 

 indeed is the case at Downiugtowu, but the persistency of the char- 

 acter in the Conshohocken and Downingtown dykes is remarkable. 



^8° Dr. F. Bascom, Pi'oc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philadelphia, 1896, p. 220. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 327 



In the ancient gneiss are numerous dykes of trap, usually small 

 and not to be traced any distance. Some were very clearly ex- 

 posed in Johnson's quarry at "Wayne. Here the trap, a fine- 

 grained diabase, was from an inch to a foot in breadth, and could 

 be seen to fork, to include masses of the gneiss, etc. Some of the 

 dykes are hornblende schist, and are suggested by Dr. Bascom'" to 

 be altered diorites. Dykes of norite also occur, one near Van 

 Artsdalen's quarry in Bucks county,"^' and one on the property of 

 Miss Brown near the crossing of the Lancaster turnpike by the 

 Radnor and Chester toad, about .3 mile south of Radnor Station, 

 identified by Dr. Bascom. Thin sections shown by her before the 

 Mineralogical and Geological Section of the Academy of l!satural 

 Sciences show very beautifully the reaction rims of garnet around 

 the crystals of pyroxene. About a third of a mile northwest of 

 Radnor Station occurs a diabase (determined by Dr. Bascom) in 

 the ancient gneiss, of coarse texture and having a reddish tint. 

 Besides those mentioned there may be named the following promi- 

 nent outcrops: 



Railroad cut east of Radnor Station. 



Erben's, Ithan creek, northwest of the Radnor and Chester 

 road, Radnor. 



Ellison's, Ithan creek, north of the Roberts' road. 



Montgomery avenue, east of the Spring Mill road, Lower ]\Ierion. 



State road, west of Pocopsin Inn, East Marlborough township, 

 Chester county. 



All these are apparently diabase, or diorites altered into horn- 

 blende schist. 



In northern Chester county, besides the great outcrops of 

 diabase in the north, there are scattered outcrops which remain for 

 further examination. The more important may be mentioned: 



1. Wilhams' quarry, near Aldham, Charlestown township, 

 Chester county,'" a gabbro in a very distinct dyke about 100 feet 

 wide with porphyritic feldspar crystals. 



2. A porphyry, near Barneston, Chester county. 



3. South of Honeybrook, two outcrops, the northerly weathering 



181 Private communication to the author. 



''- Dr. J. F. Kemp, Trans. iV"^. S. Acad. Set., Vol. XII, p. 71, February, 

 1893. 

 '" Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philadelphia, 1895, p. 540. 




328 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



white and looking like chalk flints, instead of the usual rusty 

 yellow. 



4. Beaumont's quarry, near Glen More. 



5. J. H. Schrack's, West Cain, altered diorite, about three- 

 quarters of a mile north of West Cain Meeting-house. 



Other Igneous Rocks. 



When we shall have a careful microscopic study of sections of 

 the rocks of this region doubtless many rocks now doubtful will 

 be found to be igneous or derived from igneous rocks, but at present 

 a few only can be identified. 



Prominent among these is the gabbro which, entering the State 

 from Delaware, itself, with its accompanying hornblende rocks, 

 spreads over much of the southeastern part of Delaware county, 

 and apparently sends tongues into the mica schist and gneiss areas. 

 Surface decomposition renders accurate mapping almost impossible. 

 Some exposures, as near Coucordville and Locksley Station, 

 Delaware county, look as if comparatively thin dykes or sheets 

 had been intruded into gneisses, after which both had been folded 

 and crumpled. 



The gabbro proper is well exposed at Claymont, Del., just over 

 the line. A variety consisting almost wholly of a tricliuic feld- 

 spar forms a part at least of Cedar Hill, in Bethel township, near 

 the northwest corner of Chichester. In this region pegmatites are 

 abundant but not well exposed. 



There are exposures of a trap-like rock in Middletown township, 

 Delaware county, about a mile northwest of Lima. The large 

 loose masses forming the outcrop extend N. 60° W. nearly a half- 

 mile. 



A still smaller outcrop occurs in Edgemont township, one mile 

 northwest of Cheyney Station, about two feet wide, and striking 

 near north and south in hornblende and feldspathic gneiss. 



Conclusion. 



In the whole region southeast of the Red Rocks three localities 

 only are known to have yielded fossils in rocks in place. The 

 North Valley Hill sandstone in some places, notably west of Val- 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 32^> 



ley Forge, shows abundance of Scolithus. The same fossil was 

 found by Dr. Frazer at Avoudale, Chester county. 



Fossiliferous pebbles occur in the Delaware river gravels, also on 

 the northeast slopes of Barren Hill, where Scolithus was found 

 abundantly in large pebbles of the Cambrian sandstone, the source 

 of which is obscure. They were exposed by the digging out of 

 material for the Roxborough reservoir. 



There should be mentioned also the fossils found in Shainline's 

 quarry south of Henderson Station, referred to on page 204. In 

 1899 Mr. Lewis Woolman discovered in the limestone of this 

 quarry what appear to be fossils resembling some of those in the 

 orbicular quartzite. They were exposed by the weathering of the 

 rock. Mr. Woolnian thinks them suggestive of the flat-coiled 

 forms such as Rapliutoma, etc., rather than the elevated spiral 

 forms like 3Iurchisonia.^^* 



The important locality is that described by C. D. Walcott, Amer. 

 Jour. Science, XL VII, January, 1894. 



It is north-northeast of Gap, Lancaster county, Pa., where in 

 a sandy stratum in the limestone fragments of Olenelliis and a 

 species of Obolella were found. These identify the limestone of 

 the Pequea Valley, a part of the great Lancaster county limestone 

 region, with the Cambrian. As there seems no reason to doubt the 

 identity of the limestone of the Lancaster and Chester Valleys, 

 this would seem, as stated by Mr. Walcott, to identify the Ches- 

 ter Valley limestone as Cambrian, and the underlying sandstone as 

 Lower Cambrian. 



Accepting, then, that the sandstone of the North (Chester) 

 Valley Hill is lower Cambrian, are we justified in assigning the 

 scattered outcrops of similar rock to the same ? It must be 

 admitted that hthological evidence is untrustworthy, but in this 

 case we have a peculiar rock, not only in the constituents, but also 

 in its aggregation, and also in ihe fact that its characteristic tour- 

 malines are always stretched and broken. The possibihty that such 

 rock should occur abundantly at two diiferent horizons is remote. 



Not only is there the lithological evidence, but also the strati- 

 graphical, that the peculiar sandstone is almost always overlaid and 

 underlaid by schists, and that above the upper schist almost invaria- 



^" Personal communication to the author. 




330 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



bly a limestone is found. I think, therefore, there is little doubt 

 that all the limestone and tourmaline-bearing sandstone may be 

 considered of Cambrian age.'" 



The schists and gneisses present a more difficult question, which 

 may be subdivided : 



1. the age of the hydromica schists of the South (Chester) 

 Valley Hill — in other words, are they above or below the lime- 

 stone ? 



Dr. Frazer believed the schists to have been uplifted by a fault 

 running along the south side of the valley, and that the southerly 

 limestone was probably once continuous over the South Valley 

 Hill."" 



This hypothesis necessitates making the hydromica schists continu- 

 ous with the very different rocks of the North Valley Hill, at times 

 only a little over a quarter of a mile off, each having a thickness 

 of certainly much over a half-mile, which constituted one of the 

 gravest objections to Prof. Rogers' theory that the valley was a 

 synclinal and tlie north and south hills of the same age, the sand- 

 stone of the north hill represented by small sandstone outcrops on 

 the northerly foot of, the south hill, the lower primal slates by the 

 hydromica schists. This view has not been held by any later geol- 

 ogist and need not be discussed further. 



Mr. Hall, demonstrating the synclinal structure of these schists 

 at their northeastern end, where they very cleaa'Iy lie in a basin of 

 the limestone, which in its turn is surrounded north, east and south 

 by the sandstone, and it by the ancient gneiss, argued that its con- 

 tinuation westward must be a synclinal overlying the limestone; 

 the underlying synclinal of the limestone, however, is shown in 

 his sections in C° to extend to the left bank of the Schuylkill only, 

 on the right bank and also a mile to the westward to be cut off by 

 a fault, the syenite underlying the limestone and in depth abutting 

 against the hydromica schists at the fault line. Had Mr. Hall 

 found the sandstone south of the limestone at Gulf Mills, I believe 

 his sections G' and H would have conformed at this point to his 

 section G. 



^" There is confirmation in Dr. Frazer's interesting discovery of Scolithus 

 in the sundstoue adjacent to the limestone in Loudon Grove township south 

 of Avondale. C*, p. 324. 



"« CS p. 303. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIE>XES OF PHILADELPHIA. 331 



Prof. Lesley, agreeing with Mr. Hall as to the structure east of 

 the Schuylkill, agrees in part with Dr. Frazer that at or west of 

 the Schuylkill a great fault raises rocks underlying the rocks of the 

 North Valley Hill belt above the surface to form the South Valley 

 Hill."' 



If this fault really exists aud is of magnitude so great and so 

 extensive east and west, it is strange there is not clearer evidence 

 of it. Would it be possible, if it exists, for the dips in the lime- 

 stone and the hydromica to agree as well as they do ? Thus Dr. 

 Frazer gives (p. 269) " along the south border of the Salisbury 

 township limestone belt . . . . S. 10° E. 70° gneiss" (layers in 

 limestone, p. 268), " S. 10° E. 40° ; mica schist S. 53°, S. 15° E. 



85° The dips in the eastern part of the township are S. 



10° E. 80°, S. 10° E. 60°, S. 30° E, 60°, S. 60° to 80°, etc." 



" East Cain .... the dips in the belt of mica schists which 

 passes south of the limestone vary in strike from E. 10° IST. to 

 E. 30° K and from 80^ to vertical. Some of the dips in the lime- 

 stone are as follows: S. 10° E. 85°, S. 10° E. 60°; strike E. 10° 

 N. vertical (= dip S. 10° E. 90°)," pp. 273, 274. 



" West Whiteland .... schists ± S. 10° E. 80° . . . . 

 limestone .... shows very constantly throughout its entire ex- 

 tent dips of S. 10° E. 70° to 85°," pp. 274, 275. 



" East Whiteland .... Indian King road " (which is on the 

 hydromica hill) . . . . " the dips at first all lie between or near 

 S. 10° E. and S. 30° E. it 80°." An exception is noted: 

 " Along the main track of the Pennsylvania Railroad numerous 

 dips in the same strata agree at about S. 10° E. 75°." 



Dr. Frazer then gives dips in the limestone S. 15° E. 85°, S. 

 15° E. 80°, S. 15° E. 75°, S. 15° E. 85°, S. 20° E. 78° (pp. 

 275, 276). 



These dips with others are tabulated in C^ (pp. 119 et seq.). If 

 a fault exists it should be brought out by these tables, but they seem 

 to show greater accordance than is common through this region, 

 particularly on pp. 121, 122. Sixteen pairs of southeast dips 

 being tabulated, seven agree, two show western convergence, seven 

 eastward convergence. The table of dips is remarkably accordant. 

 Abbreviated it is : 



"^ Final Report, I, 174. 




27 80 



The arguments in favor of the fault seem to locate it at the 

 north foot of the South Valley Hill.**' By Prof. Lesley's theory 

 it must be sufficiently profound to uplift the schists from a position 

 beneath the North Valley Hill rocks, and by that of Dr. Frazer 

 to uplift some two miles of schists. What becomes of it eastward 

 and westward ? Near King of Prussia the straight southerly line 

 of the limestone ends, the hydromica curves gently southeast, form- 

 ing two promontories, the limestone following, forming, as it were, 

 a bay extending more than a mile south of a line in prolongation 

 of the north foot of the hill in Chester county. 



At McFarland's mills, where the Gulf creek flows northward 

 through the hydromica schist hill, the margin resumes its ea^t- 

 northeast direction to the Schuylkill, still bordering as before the 

 hydromica schist hill, which has narrowed to les.s than half a mile. 

 A fault, to satisfy the conditions, would be of incredible shape.*'* 

 Mr. Hall's view that the hydromica schists are synclinal over the 

 limestone was controverted by Prof. Lesley :*** 



188 << -pj^g existence of such a fault would make it easier to comprehend the 

 very extraordinary istraightness of th" >oiith edge" (C*, p. 113). 



"Valley limestone, .... terminating eastward at Willow Grove in 

 Montgomery county and westward at Qnarryviile in Lancaster conntv. 

 Its extreme length is fifty-five miles in an almost perfectly straight line N. 

 183 E." (C*, p. 112). 



Mr. Hall's map C* shows clearly that east of the King of Prussia the line 

 is very far from straight. Particularly is this true of the portion just west 

 of the Schuvlkill. 



*"» lland, iVoc. Acad. Xat. Sci., Phila.. 1892, p. 445. 



**" C*, 115 et seq., who sums up the arguments pro and con briefly a» 

 follows : 



Jn its favor — 1. The acknowledged synclinal structure in ^Montgomery 

 county. 



2. The apparent necessity for considering it synclinal at Quarry ville. 



3. If synclinal " we can comprehend the existence of outlying troughs of 

 limestone still further south.'' 



4. The face (?) that the limestones at the foot of the south hill are non-mag- 

 nesian. 



Against it — " Merely transferring the difiiculty a few miles south, viz. : to 

 the southern edge of the talc mica schist belt." 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 333 



The first argument in its favor is so cogent as to be irresistible in 

 the absence of a most remarkable and almost impossible fault. 



The seco7id is of force if we admit that the limestone cannot 

 thin out, but as we find it does become exceedingly thin in some 

 places compared with others adjacent, why may it not thin out and 

 disappear under the hydromica, which would then rest upon the 

 newer schists and gneisses ? 



The third is not of great force. The southerly outcrops can 

 be reconciled with any of the theories. 



As elsewhere stated, Dr. Frazer thinks them an argument in 

 favor of his theory. 



The fourth, in view of the fact that the composition of the lime- 

 stone varies so greatly, would require many more analyses to estab- 

 lish its basis, and certainly the arguments in C^ pp. 103 and 117, 

 are fallacious, for the * ' talc mica ' ' contains little or no magnesia 

 and cannot properly be called " intensely magnesian." 



The argument against it seems rather to be in its favor, for it 

 admits a line of limestone outcrops consistent with Mr. Hall's 

 theory, giving them, however, no weight because they do not com- 

 pare (in extent it is to be presumed) with those of the valley. 



A glance at Mr. Hall's map in C^ shows very plainly the ad- 

 mitted synclinal of the limestone northeast of the Schuylkill, the 

 northerly leg two miles in width, the southerly less than one 

 thousand feet. Even the latter, I think, is excessive. This is 

 roughly as ten to one. Now as the Chester Valley limestone nar- 

 rows to a quarter of a mile and perhaps less, the corresponding 

 width of the southern leg would be but 132 feet, a width that is 

 certainly much exceeded at the Poorhouse and Guest quarries. 

 The narrower the outcrop, too, the greater the probability of con- 

 cealment by the erosion of the limestone and the falling in of the 

 adjacent rocks. , 



But not only do we find the limestone, but also accompanying it 

 the sandstone, in scattered outcrops and very thin, it is true, but 

 with its peculiar and definite characteristics. 



It is true we meet with one difficulty: to the eastward the sand- 

 stone ia southeast of the limestone and close to it; to the westward, 

 to the northwest of it with an area of schists between. Exposures 

 are not good and no explanation at present appears. 



It will be noticed that in southwest Chester county that the sand- 




334 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1900. 



stone, while at somewhat varying distances from the limestone, is 

 much closer to it if regarded as underlying. If so regarded we 

 have here five successive outcrops of limestone underlaid by sand- 

 stone within five miles, all dipping nearly alike. The explanation 

 of this must be by abler hands than mine. Repetition by close 

 folding is not likely with dips so regular and gentle ; of faults there 

 is no evidence. 



2. The Age of the Mica Schists. 



A. Can they be clearly distinguished from the hydromica schists? 



As already stated, there is no difficulty in tracing a line with 

 gentle curves northwest of which are hydromica schists only, while 

 to the southeast are the mica schists. That the hydromica schists 

 widen westward and attain a width of twelve or thirteen miles on 

 the Octorara^^ is not the fact, unless no distinction be made 

 between the soft smooth nacreous and unctuous schists of the South 

 Valley Hill and the hard rough mica schists well exposed on all 

 the creeks from east of the Brandywine to west of the Octorara. 

 The following table of dips in the two rocks is instructive: 



ir W a t e r 1 

 orks, Eaj^le > 

 )ad, Radnor, j 



Locality of 

 Mica Schist. 



West Consho- 



hocken, 

 Near Water 

 Works 

 Roy 

 W. <if (jieeue 



Hill Station, 



W. Goshen, 

 Wrangle S. H., 



W. Goslu-n, 

 McMinu'sMill, 



E. Bradford, 



Hawley'a Mill, 



Dip Mica 

 Schist. 



Dip Hydro- 

 mica Schist. 



S. 280 E. 74° S. 150 e. 85° 

 S. 20OE.±90O 



S. 23° E. 700 g. loo E.±90O 



S. 23° E. 60O S. 10° E.d=90O 



S. ±25° E. 50O S. 40C E.±90O 



J 

 Broad Run, \ 



West Branch ] 



near Modena, ) 



Buck Run N. of ) 



Newliu Sta., J 



S. 25° E. 450 

 S. 3UO E. 60° 



s. 330 c. 450 



S. 700 E. 250 

 S. 450 E. 40° 

 S. 450 E. 650 



s. 150 



S. 40O E. 



±9(P 



850 

 90O 



Locality 

 Uydromica. 



West Consho- 

 hocken, 



Creek South 

 of same, 



S. ' f Kirkland 

 Statidn. 



1 mile N. W. of 

 Wrang'eS H. 



Half mile N. 

 of iMcMinns, 



North of Haw- 

 ley "s Mill, 



Distance 

 Apart of 

 Measured 

 Outcrops, 

 Miles. 



0.2 



S. 40O E, 70O Broad Run, 



S. 200 E. 50O „ „„^ ^ „^ 



s. 100 w. 200 °" 



S. 250 E. 350 S. 50O E. BQO 



Opposite side 

 of creek, 



Buck Run N. of 

 Newliu Sta. 



0.1 



0.8 



1.0 



0.5 



0.1 



0.2 



0.1 



C*, p. 14. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 335 



B. The Relation of the Mica Schists to the Sandstone. We 

 find mica schists both above the Cambrian sandstone, between it 

 and the limestone, and also above the limestone, so that we have 

 at least three hori2ons. Those below the sandstone are best seen 

 near London Grove, Chester county; those above it, at the south 

 foot of the North Valley Hill from Cain Meeting-house westward to 

 the Octorara; those above the limestone at the Poorhouse quarry, 

 Chester county, and at the quarries of the Avondale Lime and 

 Stone Co., west of Avondale, Chester county, Pa. Those near the 

 sandstone are sandy, not very micaceous and not garnetiferoug, 

 these above the limestone much more micaceous, frequently quite 

 garnetiferous, in both cases conformable almost without doubt; but 

 there is much variety, and between visible outcrops of the sandstone 

 and limestone are large areas apparently wholly of mica schists, which 

 are usually to be seen only as abundant fragments in the soil, but 

 occasionally in extensive outcrops, and which cannot with cer- 

 tainty be placed above or below the limestone. These frequently 

 contain garnets and occasionally staurolite and kyanite. 



While in some cases these minerals may be due to contact 

 metamorphism, as, for instance, in the vicinity of the soapstone 

 quarry on the Schuylkill, in most of the region plutonic rocks are 

 absent from the garnetiferous schists. In Cream Valley and 

 westward the garnet and staurolite-bearing schists are near the 

 Conshohocken diabase dyke, but where its contacts can be ubserved, 

 as on the Schuylkill, in West Conshohocken and at the Gulf, the 

 adjacent hydromica schist and limestone appear to be unchanged. 

 The exposures suffice only to prove that much of the mica schist is 

 of the age of the sandstone or more recent. In Chester county, 

 at least, there appears to be no evidence whatever that any of the 

 mica schists are older than the lower Cambrian. The same is true 

 of the schists northwest of the ancient gneiss (Cream Valley and 

 westward). 



The schists of the valley between the forks of the ancient gneiss 

 in Newtown, Edgemont, Willistown, Westtown etc., can be traced 

 continuously into the sandstone and limestone region of Chester 

 county without essential change. Similar schists are found on the 

 southerly side as well as the northerly of the gneiss. On the 

 southerly side they are very sandy, resembling those adjacent to 

 the sandstone, but further south and especially eastward they are 




336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



highly garnetiferous, like those of Chester county associated with 

 the limestones. The schists may be traced northeastward until at 

 Glenside and in Huntingdon Valley, Montgomery county, we find 

 them apparently overlying the sandstone and limestone."* Mr. 

 Hall placed the sandstone and limestone in the upper Cambrian or 

 lower Silurian and contended that these schists cannot be below the 

 Hudson river group,"' but the limestone being recognized as Cam- 

 brian, there seems no reason to doubt the adjacent schists being of 

 that age.''' 



3. Are the hard gneisses of southern Delaware and Chester 

 county of the same age as those of the Buck Ridge, or more 

 recent ? 



My reasons for thinking they are more recent are : 



A. The lithological difference which has already been discussed. 

 This would have been of little weight in districts widely separated, 

 but here we have a hill of gneiss of similar lithological character 

 fifty miles long and at times five miles broad, and with another belt 

 of similar rock stratigraphically connected to the northeastward, 

 while the gneisses and gabbros of southern Delaware county, only 

 one to three miles distant southward, are lithologically very different 

 and maintain this difference throughout their whole extent. 



B. These gneisses can be traced eastwardly among the schists, 

 the gneisses diminishing, the schist increiusing, until they are 

 reduced to narrow beds interbedded (or interlaminated) in the 

 schists. 



»« Charles E. Hall, C«, p. 62. 



"" C«, ]i. 9. 



^** Dr. Frazer, in an argument against Mr. Hall's \'iews (Proc. Am. Philos. 

 Soc, December 15, 1882, p. 517), sa.vs : " There are small tongues and iso- 

 lated patches of Laurentian rocks occurring in the midst of these southern 

 schist.s. One comes into Chester county from the east in ICasttown and 

 Tredyflrin townships and another occupies a small area near West Chester. 

 These patches are bordered on all their sides by these schists with no 

 intervening rocks. The bordering rocks therefore cannot belong to a group 

 above the Potsdam and the Lower Silurian limestone." 



This does not agree with my observations. The ancient gneiss does come 

 into Chester count}' from the east as stated, but it is about tive miles wide 

 at its entrance into Chester county, and the tongue which underlies West 

 Chester is from one to three miles wide and extends west of the Brandywine, 

 continuous and frequently exposed. I have been over the area carefully and 

 have been able to find no isolated patches surrounded by schists. It i'* true, 

 however, that between the ancient gneiss and the schist* the sandstone and 

 limestone do not occur, but they do occur in the schists close to the contact 

 line. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 337 



4. What light cau be thrown upon the age of the schists and 

 gneisses embraced in Prof. Rogers' first and second groups at the 

 Schuylkill and extending thence northeastward and southwestward ? 



The advance of geological science has taught that schistosity, 

 formerly thought to be evidence of stratification, may be due sim- 

 ply to dynamic and raetamorphic agencies, and that one frequent 

 result of such alteration, when not carried to an extreme, is the 

 formation, from a more massive rock, of augengneiss or gneiss 

 containing eyes or lenses of quartz, feldspar or other mineral 

 having a more or less drawn-out appearance. This is very common 

 in this region. 



The remarks of Mr. Charles R. Keyes^'^ in regard to the Mary- 

 land Piedmont plateau are most pertinent: " From all appear- 

 ances the gneiss area was originally largely granitic, but through 

 the agency of the enormous orographic pressure has been squeezed 

 into its present gneissic condition." 



If we concede that this granite was penetrated by dykes or sheets 

 of basic rocks, the abundant hornblende schists may be readily 

 accounted for. In the ancient gneiss some of the dykes are now 

 hornblende schist, though retaining their clear dyke form with 

 sharp contacts. The exposures in or near Concord seem to indi- 

 cate that such intrusions' exist. 



But we certainly have in the region elastics, besides the Cam- 

 brian sandstone proper. It and the schists accompanying it and 

 conformable with it, together with the limestone and the schists 

 overlying it, are certainly of sedimentary origin. But in Brooks' 

 quarry, Radnor, the rocks between the sandstone and the lime- 

 stone are distinctly gneissic and apparently porphyritic, though 

 many layers are schistose. Here pebbles of the ancient gneiss 

 clearly attest the action of water. These are among the rocks 

 which can be traced westward and southward around the ancient 

 gneiss, and then eastward across the Brandy wine and into Delaware 

 county. 



But the sandy mica schists and garnetiferous schists, accompanied 

 by the sandstone as far as the southwesterly border of Delaware 

 county, can themselves be traced almost continuously further east- 

 ward, the breaks of continuity being not great, until they come 



i« Bull. Geol. Soc. Am., II, 321. 

 22 




338 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



again into contact with the typical sandstone and the limestone in 

 Montgomery county. 



But there are also hard gneissic rocks, both homblendic and 

 feldspathic, almost always more or less schistose and dipping with 

 the adjacent schists. 



Would not the conditions be satisfied by a theory that after the 

 deposition of the sediments they were deeply buried, penetrated 

 by intrusions of granite and basic eruptives, subjected to intense 

 dynamic action, of which the record is left in the plications and 

 close foldings, sheared and faulted, until almost all trace of the 

 original rocks is lost, and a general schistose structure more or less 

 parallel to the strike of the ancient gneiss was developed ? 



A change in the direction of the compressing force Avould ac- 

 count for the remarkable change of dip observed east and west of 

 the vicinity of Darby creek. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 339 



March 6. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Fifteen persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : 



" Contributions to the Life-History of Plants. No. XIV." 

 By Thomas Meehan. 



" The Biddulphoid Forms of North American Diatomacese," 

 by Charles S. Boyer, A.M. 



The deaths of F. L. Harvey, a member, and of Hans Bruno 

 Geinitz and William A. Hammond, M.D., correspondents, were 

 announced. 



John W. Harshberger, Ph.D., made a communication on 

 the history of botany in Philadelphia. (No abstract. ) 



Dr. Pilsbry withdrew a paper entitled " Notes on some Southern 

 Mexican Shells," presented for publication December 26, 1899. 



March 13. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 



Eighteen persons present. 



A paper entitled " Notes on Ameiurus prosthistius, " by Henry 

 W. Fowler, was presented for publication. 



March 20. 



Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Eighteen persons present. 



The death of Stephen P. M. Tasker, a member, was announced. 



Mr. Frank J. Keeley made a communication on the motion 

 of diatoms. (No abstract. ) 




340 proceedings of the academy of [1900. 



March 27. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., ia the Chair. 



Twenty-one persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : 

 " Preliminary Notes on the Rate of Growth and on the Devel- 

 opment of Instincts in Spiders," by Annie Bell Sargent. 



" New South American Land Snails," by Henry A. Pilsbry. 

 " Subterranean Waters," by Charles Morris. 



A resolution was adopted approving of a modification of the 

 deed of trust of the Hayden Geological Memorial Fund, 

 whereby a gold medal will hereafter be awarded every three years, 

 instead of, as heretofore, a bronze medal and the surplus interest 

 of the fund annually. 



John W. Harshberger, Ph.D., and John H. Converse were 

 elected members. 



The following were ordered to be printed: 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 341 



CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE LIFE-HISTORY OF PLANTS. No. XIV. 

 BY THOMAS MEEHAN. 



I. Fungi as Agents in Cross-fertilization. 



My studies have coaviuced mo that in the main all plants that 

 do not depend on insects for fertilization never fail to produce 

 seeds abundantly. The fact that any individual plant is prolific 

 indicates self-fertilization. Compositse, as a rule, seed abundantly. 

 Hermaphrodite disk flowers rarely miss perfecting seed; and cover- 

 ing them by gauze to protect from insect visitors shows the full 

 potency of own-pollen. Even when the ray florets are pistillate, 

 the chances of receiving pollen from their own disk flowers are 

 great, and this is not cross-fertilization. In short, the rule in 

 Compositse is that they are arranged for self-fertilization. 



In Gray's iSynojMcal Flora we read, under Vernonia: " There 

 are spontaneous hybrids between such very different species as 

 V. Arkansana and V. Baldwinii, V. fascieulata and V. Baldwinii, 

 and even between V. Baldwinii and V. Lindheimeri!" Knowing 

 how apt botanists are to attribute any striking variation to hybrid- 

 ism, ignoring for the time being the well known fact that the 

 innate power of the plant is fully equal to such phenomena. Dr. 

 Gray's statement seems liable to a different interpretation. 



In the Meehan nurseries are large quantities of V. Baldvnnii 

 and V. Arkansana growing side by side. Adjoining were a few 

 plants of V. Jamesii Desiring to increase the quantity, the seeds 

 were saved and sown by the foreman in charge of the herbaceous 

 department. Hundreds of these flowered in the summer of 1889. 

 To our surprise there were not a dozen specimens of the genuine 

 V. Jamesii; the rest were either intermediate between the two 

 species named, or, where exactly the species, without any evidence 

 that they had ever sprung from the Jamesii plants. I could not 

 understand it. It seemed a blow to my deduction about close 

 fertilization in Compositse. 



It so happened that I had been watching for several years past 




342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



the influence of root-fungus on species of Liatris, as well as on 

 Vernonia Jamesii, when the original plants were brought from the 

 West. They would grow well the first year, but there would 

 scarcely be one left after three years. The effect on the plants 

 was to induce a more branching habit. Even the spicate species 

 would become paniculate. This was especially so with V€rno7iia 

 Jamesii, though these plants were never wholl)'^ destroyed, as 

 the Liatris would be. A plant selected for special observation 

 in 1889 showed brownish-red blotches on the stems as they 

 pushed up in spring, which the practiced eye of the gardener would 

 attribute to fungus agency. Later in the season some of these 

 were sent to the eminent mycologist, Mr. J. B. Ellis, of New- 

 field, N. J. He could detect nothing satisfactory, and advised 

 that specimens should be secured just before frost, when the spore - 

 bearing organs might be formed. There was a gradual enlargement 

 of the stem upward, and indeed the upper portion became almost 

 fasciate, and the branching particularly abundant, just as we often 

 see in some species of Solidago or in Erigeron Canadensis in the 

 autumn. This was sent to Prof. Byron D. Halsted, of the New 

 Jersey Agricultural Experiment Station at New Brunswick, who 

 also could find no indications of fungus, but simply enlarged tissue 

 such as is usually represented in an insect gall. That it is a 

 development in some unknown way from the operation of the root 

 fungus is clear from the watching of the plaut-growth through its 

 whole term. 



It was after the discovery of the certain hybridity of the .seed- 

 lings above described that a careful examination of the flowers 

 of V. Jamesii was made. It was found that the normally white 

 anthers had turned brown, and had perfected no pollen. The 

 pistils only were perfect. A small bee, identified for me by Mr. Wil- 

 liam J. Fox, the well-knoAvn entomologist, as Halidus parallelus, 

 was an active visitor, its thighs loaded with the clear white pollen 

 from the other species. All this confirms Dr. Gray's suggestion 

 of the hybrid origin of the forms he finds spontaneous ; but the 

 probability is that this is not due to any specific arrangement for 

 cross-fertilization, but the consequeuce of some accidental derange- 

 ment of the anthers in some one of the species, which gives the 

 opportunity for the reception of pollen by any given plant from 

 some of its neighbors. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHTLADELPHIA. 343 



II. Morphology of Twin and Triune Peaches. 



There are under cultivation double-flowered peaches of several 

 varieties. The stamens have mostly been transmuted to petals, 

 but a few continue polleniferous around the pistil, which remains 

 in its normal perfect form. There is nothing, therefore, to inter- 

 fere with fruit bearing, and peaches are often found on these 

 double- blossomed trees. 



The singular feature of these cases is that the fruits are usually 

 borne in sets of two or tliree. What we might term the carpellary 

 suture in the peach fruit is on the interior line, with a slightly 

 recurved apex. Any cursory observer might be pardoned for sup- 

 posing that the peach had returned to the pluri carpellary condi- 

 tion, which we are taught is the original plan. Four out of five 

 of the primary carpels are supposed to be atrophied in the forma- 

 tion of the single-stoned peach. 



This note has been prepared because this supposed pluricarpel- 

 lary condition is so commonly used as an illustration of the develop- 

 ment under special conditions of organs usually arrested. The 

 author had conceived this position to be sound, and yet was unable 

 to satisfy himself in regard to any physiological law by which the 

 condition could be brought about. The conversion of stamens to 

 petals is a retrograde movement — a movement that could scarcely 

 aid in the acceleration of development in parts usually dormant. 



A new opportunity for observation shows that the condition 

 arises from the union in an early stage of two or three distinct 

 gynceciums, and not 



from the unusual de- 

 velopment of carpels 

 in the one'gyncecium. 

 The illustration 

 shows the bases of 

 distinct gynophores ^^'^"- ^- ^^^- '■^• 



(fig. 1), while the full-face %new (fig. 2) shows how the suture of 

 one carpel [had grown into the carpel of the other by the simple 

 coiling of the spiral faintly outlined at the base in the other drawing. 

 The double flower in these peaches is the result of the arresta- 

 tion of normal parts, and this arrestation has extended to the axis 

 on which the flower-buds are borne. These buds have thus been 

 drawn so closely together that they have met in a very early stage 

 of their development, and the carpels of the distinct blossoms 




344 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



become united. It is not the result of a multiplication of normal 

 parts, but a union of distinct individuals. 



III. Galtonia candicans — Self-fertilization and Growth- 

 energy. 



Noting from the abundance of seed vessels on this plant that it 

 was a self-fertilizer, I set myself to observe it closely with some 

 specially interesting results. 



In all jilants growth is rhythmic, not continuous. In this case 

 the pauses are of unusual length, whilB the advances, between the 

 rests, are proportionately rapid. The flower-stalk ^is strong and 

 very leafy. Some of the leaves are in verticils of three. Then 

 follow two, alternately disposed and widely separated, followed 

 by three arranged in a verticil. This is the rule throughout the 

 whole growth. The time occupied in forming the verticil seemed as 

 long as in constructing the interval, but the foundation for this 

 arrangement occurs in an early stage of development, and could 

 not be positively determined. 



In a later stage of approaching anthesis, the rhythmic inter- 

 vals are still more infrequent. The pedicel curves near the apex, 

 and the flower-bud is drooping. At the curve there is a rest 

 of two weeks, when the flower, which by this time has gone 

 through all its functional purposes, starts on to an ultimate erect 

 position. This renewal of motion in the curve seems to be rapid, 

 but unfortunately a record of the time occupied was omitted. It 

 was, however, discovered that the motion was in the form of a 

 straightening and upward curving of the pedicel, and not by any 

 spiral movement. It may be here observed that the method 

 employed to note these motions ami their directions, is by the use 

 of small pins inserted in the stems at or near the points under 

 observation. !Most species of plants have their special hours and 

 methods of opening, and it depends on the growth -rhythms 

 whether the various functions oi^erate simultaneously or each set 

 of organs are functional at diflerent times. The corolla occasion- 

 ally expands before the stamens finish their growth, and not infre- 

 quently the pollen is not ejected till some time afterwards. In 

 some, as in Aiitirrhinum and other Scrophulariacea\ the pollen 

 is ejected in advance of opening. In many kinds of flowers the 

 stigma is not receptive till long after opening, while in other 

 cases this period is reached simultaneously with other functional 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 345 



activity. In the case of Galtonia my observations have usually 

 commenced at sunrise, but by that time the perianth has ex- 

 panded, the two series of stamens have perfected their growth and 

 discharged the pollen on the stigma that the anthers closely cover, 

 the pollen evidently actively at work. Only once was I able to 

 see the pollen in process of ejectment from the anther-cells. These 

 are horny, resembling miniature mussel shells. The pollen was being 

 forced out from the lower portion of the anther-septum, before 

 dehiscence, in the form of small sections of eilken thread. 

 Though seeing this remarkable phenomenon but on one occasion, 

 it is probably the normal manner, judging from the fact that the 

 pollen collected on the thighs of the honey bees, that had been 

 at work before the rising of the sun and the beginning of my task, 

 was of a rough and stringy character. 



The observations sustain my points : that fertility is mainly de- 

 pendent on self-fertilization, and that form is governed by varying 

 rhythmic movements of growth-energy. 



IV. Evolution ix "Walxuts axd Hickories. 



From time to time during past years reports have been received 

 of curious hybrids between the black walnut, Juglans nigra, and 

 the butternut, or between the black walnut and the English walnut, 

 Juglan-i regia. Specimens have now come to hand through the 

 courtesy of Mr. H. G. Shelby, of Burlington, Iowa. The popu- 

 lar impression that a hickory (Canja) was growing out of the husk 

 (involucre) of the black walnut might n^ell be par- 

 doned, as indeed might those botanists who see hybrid- 

 ization in any serious departure from the normal form. 



The departure can, however, be readily ex- 

 plained under well kuown morphological laws, 

 and it furnishes us at the same time with 

 some direct evidence in regard to the morphologi- 

 cal conception of the structure of the fruit and its en- 

 velopes that has hitherto been but theoretical. Though Fruit of 

 seemingly of a single piece, so uniform in structure that Juglans ni- 

 the husk of the walnuts — the black walnut and butter- ^usk but 

 nut especially — has to be separated from the nut by half devel- 

 heavy blows, morphology teaches us that it is pri- opjycian in- 

 mariiy composed of several bracts that have become terior series 

 wholly consoHdated, and that it is really the analogue 




346 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



of the involucre of the hazel-nut, ,or the cup of the acorn. In 

 the specimen before us the husk has been but partially developed, 

 and is seen to be composed of two leaflets. It has the ordinary 

 rough exterior of the walnut husk. From the interior proceeds 

 what appears to be"a hickory nut with something of the flattened 

 sharp-ribbed form that characterizes the shell- 

 bark series, Carya alba. It is, however, still 

 green and papery, divided into four parts at 

 the apex, reminding one somewhat of the in- 

 volucre of the bitternut, Carya amara. After 

 soaking well the parts in water, we find that 

 these two layers, though apparently united, 



YiQ 2 Another ^^® easily separable, and the inner layer, of 



specimen, less de- which the four-cleft apex of the abnormal 

 ^^ ^^^^ ' walnut is the continuation, remains as a cov- 



ering to the true nut-shell. If the husk be removed hastily, 

 we have the ordinary rugose character of the nut, but when 

 it is carefully separated the lower layer remains as a shining 

 brown pellicle, obliterating the usual roughness, and presenting the 

 nut to us as smooth as a nut of an ordinary 

 hickory. The conclusion derived from the study 

 is that the fruit of the walnut is made up from 

 an indefinite number of floral bracts, and that 

 the ditt'erent species, or even genera of the walnut 

 family, diflfer from each other mainly in the vary- 

 ing power of consolidatiug and transforming these 

 bracts. 



The disturbance reaches the carpels. The section of the nut, 

 showing a tricarpellary structure, is especially interesting. 



It is not necessary to call in hybridism to account for the phe- 

 nomena. They are explainable under the theory of varying 

 degrees of growth-energy as advocated by the author. 



Fig. 3. — 

 Cross section of 

 a nut. 



V. Evolution by Growth-energy — Ilex opaca and Cor- 



NUS FLORIDA. 



In a general view of vegetation, there seems no escape from the 

 hypothesis of evolution. In the study of the individual plant, we 

 know to a certainty that every organ, from the seed-leaves to the 

 various parts of the fruit, is simply modified leaf- blade. This is 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 347 



the foundation of the doctrine of morphology. In this study of 

 the individual we frequently note missing links, as, for instance, a 

 less number of floral organs than we know might have been, the 

 absence of leaves or buds in positions they might have occupied, 

 or suppressions, or, indeed, productions in other instances. When 

 we compare one species, genus or family with another, we may 

 note the same law prevailing. "We conclude that acceleration 

 or retardation of growth — the union or the separation of parts 

 involved in the structure of plants — are the chief foundations of 

 the great variety we see. 



How this manner of development is brought about is the great 

 question yet unsolved. At times it seems that the whole character 

 of the future individual should be moulded by protoplasmic 

 action in the primordial cell. The most powerful microscope 

 reveals to us nothing of the oak in one cell or of the elm in an- 

 other, but from the invisible activities of the cell contents the final 

 results are unerringly evolved. All this seems so logical as to 

 account for the whole character of the individual plant. But 

 when we make a broad study of the individuals of a group we 

 know as species, we see so many differences that we have to con- 

 clude there must have been intervention somewhere. We see in 

 the Rocky Mountains of Colorado what must have been originally 

 the same species of pine, fir and spruce as are found at lower ele- 

 vations on the Pacific slope. The only difTerence is a sturdy dense 

 growth, and a general compactness of all the parts, which enable 

 them the better to resist the cutting winds at a low temperature 

 that are so destructive to the weaker branches of conifers during 

 the winter season. We have no difficulty in deciding that this 

 arrestation of development has been the result of environment — 

 that is to say, the elevation of the land on which their ancestors 

 grew. And yet, for the many ages that the Pacific forms and the 

 Colorado forms have been under such widely different conditions, 

 there is no difference except in this general arrestation of luxuriant 

 growth. Again we are disappointed. Environment does not 

 wholly satisfy us. It may induce slight geographical variations. 

 That is all. Much greater local differences can be shown in which 

 external conditions can have had no part. For instance, in vari- 

 ous parts of Florida a large proportion of the holly trees. Ilex 

 opaca, have saliciform foliage. Of the many thousands of leaves 




348 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



on a single tree there may not be one that has the margins " undu- 

 late, with spiny teeth." Not unfrequently the leaves are from 

 two to three inches long, with here and there one with a spiny 

 tooth to show its relationship. Only for the occasional tooth an 

 expert in classification would with good reason regard it as a dis- 

 tinct species. At any rate, seeing these for the first time as I did, 

 "a remarkable geographical form" is the mental comment. 

 But at length we note as many or more trees Avith leaves as spiny 

 as any manual of botany would describe them. Geography can 

 have little place here, and we have to conclude, as of other agents 

 in variation, that it cannot be a material power in eflTecting change. 

 My thought has been, as my papers to the Academy in past 

 years indicate, that we have to look to growth-energy in connec- 

 tion with the rhythmic nature of the growth-waves for the true 

 solution of the theory of evolution. My purpose in this paper 

 is to illustrate this by a comparison of two species of dogwood, 

 Cornus florida, of America, and Cornus Mas, of the Old World. 

 The characters of branches and leaves are similar, the lead- 

 ing difference being in the greater production of twiggy branches, 

 the absence of the large white involucre, and the pedunculate 

 fruit that characterizes the European form. When the au- 

 tumn season of rest has arrived and flower-buds for next spring 

 formed, we find in each instance that two pairs of leaves have 

 been changed to scales covering the embryonic head of flowers. 

 A slight difference now occurs. The growth-energy in Cornus 

 florida was expended in elongating the axis below the flower-head, 

 forming a few bracts along its course, and then resting ; in Cornus 

 Mas it rests at once at the base of the flower, and then proceeds to 

 elongate the pedicels of the flower within the bud. Vertical and 

 horizontal sections of the buds show this clearly. AVhen the 

 rhythmic growth va renewed in spring the energy is directed in the 

 same line. The bud scales enlarge slightly, but continue as small 

 green " involucres" below the flower-buds ; the energy is toward 

 the pedicels. The flowers elongate, and we have finally the pedi- 

 cellate fruits. In Cornus florida the energy is sufficient only to 

 cause the expansion of the flowers, and the red fruit finally 

 appears as a conglomerate head, the mass of the force being spent 

 on the four winter scales, which are projected to appear as four 

 large white structures simulatiuir bracts. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 349 



"We may look to the direction and degree of energy, in connec- 

 tion with rhythmic growth, as the leading factor in evolution. It 

 explains facts otherwise unaccountable. In two plants of dande- 

 lion, growing side by side, one may have leaves so deeply laciniate 

 that little but midrib and nerves are seen, while the other have 

 broadly lanceolate leaves, almost entire. To compensate for this, 

 one may have tall strong flower-stems, the other short and weak 

 ones. The growth-force has simply been exerted in different lines, 

 or may have been weak from the start. 



Evolution, directed by varying degrees of growth-energy, recon- 

 ciles many conflicting hypotheses. Granting, what must be true, 

 that the machinery for the production of energy is all constructed 

 by or in connection with the protoplasm in the primary cell ; and 

 that this is fed, as the plant grows, by food at its command, 

 results must depend on the strength of this machinery. It must 

 affect the plants variously, and indeed their several parts. The 

 machinery at a given point may suddenly become defective, though 

 not in a vital point; and the euergy, obstructed in one direction, is 

 diverted to another channel and we have the * ' sporting branch, ' ' 

 as florists term these changes. These cells in the " sport," with the 

 new energy imparted to them, have the same power of heredity 

 as the original cells. In the willow -leaved hollies, the energy 

 arranged for in the original particles of protoplasm have been kept 

 intact through the whole growth process. Above all it explains 

 what otherwise seems a mystery, the existence of the same species 

 in widely separated localities. There is no necessity for presup- 

 posing that all traveled from one central home. If in one locahty 

 the powers of the protoplasm in the primary cell of Ilex opaca is 

 80 nicely balanced that it may give us willow-leaved forms, there is 

 no reason why they may not all do that in time, and the prickly- 

 leaved form gradually die out. A block of hollies hundreds of 

 miles apart might follow a similar course. We may, in fact, pic- 

 ture to ourselves large areas varying in a few generations by very 

 slight changes in the mechanical arrangement of the protoplasmic 

 particles, forming the general energy-producing machinery in the 

 primordial cell. 



VI. Cypress Knees- -Their Nature and Origin. 

 While in Florida for a few weeks in the winter season, when 

 ordinary botanical attractions are rare, I took the opportunity of 




350 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



reviewing my conclusions in regard to the nature and origin of the 

 so-called knees of the Cypress tree, Taxodium distiehum. During 

 two weeks' travel these trees occupied my chief attention. It is 

 no exaggeration to say that thousands of trees in various localities 

 and under different conditions were under close observation. I 

 believe them to be simply root-excrescences, of no more service 

 in the life-economy of the plant, than are the excrescences that 

 often abound on the weeping willow, or on other trees. Indeed, 

 they are not uncommon on the roots of trees. As I saw on this 

 occasion, they abound on the roots of the water oak, Qitercus 

 aquatica, in this case taking on a hemispherical though often de- 

 pressed form. 



The excrescences were not always present ; indeed, trees free 

 from this condition were in the majority. In one case near Green 

 Cove Springs, I found a group of many hundreds of trees that 

 had been left standing after the great monarchs had been cut 

 away, that had none whatever in the whole group ; nor were there 

 any evidences around the old stumps that there had been any 

 borne by them. In a group of several hundred trees evidently 

 under fifty years old, none were supposed to have any; but on 

 looking carefully over them I found ten that bore them pro- 

 fusely, some of the excrescences protruding over a foot above the 

 ground. 



The base of the main trunks of those trees that bear these ex- 

 crescences are usually hollow, as are the excrescences themselves. 

 In the block that had no excrescences about them the old trunks 

 appeared to have been wholly sound. Though satisfied that there 

 was no ground for the prevalent beliefs that the excrescences were 

 for the purposes of affording air to the roots, for collecting surface 

 food, or were abortive suckers — were, in fact, excrescences of no 

 value to the plant — I failed to understand why they should be 

 hoUow, any more than the excrescences in other trees. 



Since my return the clue seems to be furnished by a paj^er in 

 the Eleventh Annual Report (1900) of the Missouri Botanic Garden, 

 just issued. The author, Hermann von Schrenk, deals with 

 ** a disease of the Taxodium known as peckiness. " In this case 

 the wood of the trunk is eaten out in vertical holes, lea\-ing a 

 clear line of demarcation between the part destroyed and the part 

 uninjured. The mycelium of a fungus is always found in con- 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 351 



nection with it, and is without doubt the cause. No fruiting 

 organs have yet been found, and thei'efore the name of the fungus 

 cannot be determined. I have examined specimens of these 

 " knees " in the collection of the Academy. A large one is to a 

 great extent hollow, but a portion of the outer wood several inches 

 thick is still left. The " pecky " holes described by Mr. Schrenk 

 are in this wood, and it is quite clear that the cavity is formed by 

 decay induced by the fungus. The smaller one, about eight 

 inches high, had the wood in a gnarled and twisted condition, but 

 so far with no evidence of decay through fungus operations. 



The conclusion is that the so-called cypress " knees" are mere 

 excrescences, probably in this case superinduced by fungus action, 

 and that the trees that show no evidences of producing these 

 excrescences are probably free from fungus attacks. It is not to 

 be supposed that every tree in a group, or any considerable num- 

 ber of trees, would be equally infested by the parasite. 




352 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900 



NOTE ON AMEIURTJS PROSTHISTIUS. 

 BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



Ameiurns prosthistius Cope. 



Amiurus prosthistius Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1883, 132. 

 Ameiurus erebennus Jordan and Evermann, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., 

 No. 47, I, 1896, 139 (part). 



Upon a recent examination of the t}'pical and other sj^cimens 

 of the present species I have arrived at the conclusion that ^??im- 

 rtis prosthistius of Cope is specifically distinct from Aiaiuriis 

 erebennus of Jordan.^ The material at hand, consisting of seven- 

 teen specimens from the collection of the late Prof. E. D. Cope, 

 is in excellent preservation and is at present the property of this 

 Academy. As four specimens, Nos. 20,546, 20,547, 20,548 and 

 20,549, are typical, I have selected No. 20,546 as the type, as 

 it is the first one mentioned in the description, and also from the 

 fact that it had a small label in Prof. Cope's handwriting placed 

 in the branchial aperture which reads, ^'Amiurus prosthistius Cope 

 type." All of the specimcus mentioned were collected in the 

 Batsto river, N. J., June 15, 1883, by Prof. Cope. Other speci- 

 mens collected by him are Nos. 20,927, 20,928, 20,929, 20.930, 

 20,931, 20,932, 20,933, 20,934 and 20,935 from Pool Tolsoms, 

 and Nos. 20,616, 20,617 and 20,618, also from pools at the head 

 of the Egg Harbor river, N. J. 



The form of the body is much as \n Ameiurus natalis (Le Sueur). 

 Head longer than broad, convexly flattened above, the upper 

 profile line nearly straight to the origin of the D., though the 

 region directly before the D. is swollen on each side. The snout 

 is blunt, obtuse, with the upper lip projecting slightly beyond the 

 lower. The lips are moderately thick, fleshy and generally papil- 

 lose. Nares situated laterally and anteriorly, the anterior pair 

 about an eye diameter from the posterior pair and near the edge of 

 the snout. The posterior nares are slightly more distant from each 

 other than the anterior pair, but not so distant from each other as 



» Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., X, 1877, 85, PI. xiii, Figs. 19 and 20. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 353 



the eyes, aud the aperture is larger than that of the anterior pair. 

 The nasal bai'bels, which originate directly in front of the pos- 

 terior nares, are not as long as the head, but in younger examples 

 are much longer than in the adults. The maxillary barbels are 

 the longest and reach to the origin of the D. in the young, but 

 do not extend much, if any, beyond the head in the adults. The 

 tips of the outer mental barbels do not reach as far posteriorly as 

 those of the maxillary, though they reach beyond the base of the 

 P. in the young, and to its base in the adults. The inner mental 

 barbels are not as long as the outer at any age. Mouth broad 

 and somewhat semi-lunar, and furnished with bands of teeth of 

 about equal width. In the type a system of minute pores extends 

 along the lower edge of the mandibles, aud this is also discernible 

 in other specimens. The gill-membranes are broad, not over- 

 lapping, aud the angle formed at the isthmus would be equilateral. 

 Gill-rakers short and of moderate number. The eye is lateral 

 and superior, anterior to the centre of the length of the head, and 

 of a very deeply elliptical shape. The posterior and lower mar- 

 gins of the operculum form a small fleshy gill-flap. The occipital 

 process does not reach the interspinal bones, and the bridge of 

 bone is thus incomplete. The origin of the P. is anterior to the 

 posterior opercular margin, and the tip of the spine extends, when 

 depressed, to or beyond the origin of the D. The P. spine with 

 or without several shallow indistinct denticulations on its outer 

 edge near the tip, the inner edge is strongly serrated, and most of 

 the rays of the fin are longer than the spine. Humeral process 

 only slightly rugose and extending slightly beyond the middle of 

 the P. spine. The tip of the P. fin reaches the last D. ray in the 

 vertical and the origin of the A., or very near it, in the young, 

 though in the adults it falls considerably short. The A. en- 

 croaches on the V, for at least a third of its length in the young, 

 though very little in the adults. Posterior margin of the base of 

 the Adipose fin nearer to the tip of the caudal than the tip of the 

 D. spine in the adults, but about median in position in the young. 

 Upper rudimentary caudal rays developed and extending ante- 

 riorly at least to below the tip of the Adipose fin. Color of the 

 body blackish-brown, darkest above, belly to the origin of the A. 

 whitish. The terminal portions of the fins are blackish and the 

 bases of the P. and V. lighter. In all of these examples the nasal 

 23 




354 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



and maxillary barbels are blackish colored like the prevailing 

 body-color, though the latter are somewhat paler on their terminal 

 portions, and all of the mental barbels are distinctly of the same 



■\vhitish color as the belly and lower anterior surface of the body. 

 The lower lip is also margined narrowly with brownish. The fin 

 formulae and measurements are as follows (the latter in milli- 

 meters) in the typical specimens: 



Radii of D., I, 6 I, 6 I, 6 I, 6 



" "A. (counting rudiments), . . 27 27 25 26 



" "P., I, 8 I, 8 1, 8 I, 8 



" " V, 8 8 8 8 



Length of D. spine, 15 18 17 20 



" P. spine, 20 22 24 21 



Longest D. ray, 26 27 27 27 



" P. ray, 24 26 26 27 



V. ray, 21 21 20 25 



A. ray, 23 26 22 28 



Head without opercular flap, .... 44 46 48 53 



Depth of body, 38 38 44 42 



Between outer edges of P. spines, ... 35 39 42 43 



Humeral process, 13 14 15 15 



Postocular part of head, 25 30 28 31 



Length of eye, 6 6 6 6 



Tip of snout to origin of D. , .... 65 70 73 86 



Literorbital space, 25 25 27 27 



Posterior internasal region, 16 16 17 18 



Least depth of caudal peduncle, . ... 23 23 21 24 



Base of A, , 49 55 53 o6 



Total length, 208 216 216 230 



The fin formuhc and measurements of the remaining specimens 

 (the latter also in millimeters) range as follows: 



Radii of D., I, 6 



" " A. (counting rudiments), (25?) 26 to 28 



" " P., I, 8 



" " v., 8 



Length of D. spine, 9 to 13 



" " P. spine, 11 to 19 



Longest D. ray, 1 2 to 20 



" P. ray, 13 to 19 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 355 



Longest V. ray, 10 to 16 



" A. ray, 12 to 19 



Head without opercular flap, 16 to 31 



Deptli of body, (circa) 16 to 27 



Between outer edges of P. spine, 15 to 25 



Humeral pi'ocess, 5 to 10 



Postocular part of head, 9 to 18 



Length of eye, 3 to 5 



Tip of snout to origin of D,, 24 to 42 



Interorbital space, 9 to 17 



Posterior iuteruasal region, 6 to 12 



Least depth of caudal peduncle, 9 to 17 



Base of A., 21 to 38 



Total length, 83 to 142 



As Prof. Cope has contended, this species proves to be closely 

 allied to Amiurus natalis (Le Sueur), of Avhich it may be found 

 to be a subspecies, but at present it seems advisable to consider it 

 distinct. Amiurus erehennus of Jordan is certainly different, as 

 the caudal of that species is stated as being short and truncated ; 

 in the figure it is represented with somewhat acute tips and with 

 the posterior margin a httle emarginated ; all the barbels are said to 

 be black, the A. Avith 22 to 24 rays and the occipital process only 

 little free behind. Ameiurus prosthistius is easily distinguishable 

 as the shape of the caudal is altogether diiFerent, the upper rudi- 

 mentary rays greatly exceed the development of the lower, the 

 caudal itself is rounded, not at all truncate, emarginateor pointed, 

 the inferior barbels are all whitish like the lower anterior surface 

 of the body, and the A. has as many as 28 rays. In all the smaller 

 examples examined, all possessed at least 26 A. rays, except one of 

 which I am doubtful that has 25?, while the majority had 27. 




356 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW BEES COLLECTED BY MR. H. H. SMITH 

 IN BRAZIL.-I. 



; BY T. D. A. COCKERELL. 



Genus ATJGOCHLORA Smith, 1S53 (sens. lat.). 



Series I. Hind spiir of hind tibia of ? pectinate (subg. AUGOCHLO- 

 ROPSis Ckll., etc.). 



A. Larger species, length over 8 mm. 



I. Teeth of hind spur of hind tibiie three, large, more or less 

 broad eveu to the tips. 



(i) Femora and tibire ferruginous. 

 Megalopta idalia Smith, 1853. 



?. Length 12 mm. Head and thorax shining brassy or yel- 

 lowish green, with faint coppery tints; metathorax, abdomen and 

 legs ferruginous, the apical half of the abdomen above fuscous. 

 Antenna? ferruginous, scape long; ocelli large; face narrow, eyes 

 large, subreuiform, space between the orbital margin and lateral 

 ocellus much less than the diameter of the ocellus ; front with dense, 

 more or less confluent, small punctures; clypeus and supraclypeal 

 area (which is (juitc convex) with large scattered punctures; lower 

 margin of clypeus and &ides of face broadly, and the labrum, pale 

 ferruginous; process of labrum. large but low and rounded, a little 

 depressed in the middle; mandible-< dark fet'i'uginous, blackish at 

 their bidentate tips. Pubescence of thorax wholly pale, scanty and 

 short, like a fine mould; mesothorax with numerous but very shal- 

 low punctures of two sizes; scutellum with very minute punctures, 

 and a few larger ones interspei'sed ; basal area of metathorax 

 feebly enclosed, finely roughened, with a few longitudinal ridges at 

 the extreme sides; pubescence of legs wholly pale, tinged with 

 golden; tegula^ pale ferruginous; wings hyaline, slightly yellowish, 

 nervures and stigma pale ferruginous, subcostal nervure black; 

 second submarginal cell very small; second recurrent nervure 

 joining third submarginal cell near the beginning of its apical 

 fourth ; abdomen l)road and convex, sericeous with scattered indis- 

 tinct punctures on its apical half; doi-sal surface bare, apex and 

 ventral surface with abundant pale golden hair. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 357 



Hab. — Chapada, October. One specimen. Differs from typi- 

 cal Megalopta in the much longer third submarginal cell, with the 

 second recurrent nervure entering it considerably before its end 

 also by the first recurrent joiuing the second submarginal cell at its 

 end. 



(ii) Femora and tibije green. 



AugocMora spinolae n- sp. 



?. Length 11 mm., stoutly built, bright green; head and thorax 

 yellowish green, with coppery tints, abdomen a bluer green, with 

 bluish tints in certain lights ; legs green, the tarsi, and hind tibise 

 behind, very dark brown. Antennte black, flagellum less than 

 twice the length of the long scape; eyes rather small, subreniform; 

 face broad, ocelli ordinary, distance between lateral ocelli and eyes 

 equal to at leaM four times the diameter of an ocellus; vertex 

 strongly coppery; front roughened with small, very close punc- 

 tures; a short, low keel between the antennae; clypeus with rather 

 numerous pvmctures, its anterior part blue-black edged with pink, 

 these colors extending as a narrow tongue upwards in the middle 

 line; mandibles black, scimitar-shaped, the blunt inner tooth a con- 

 siderable distance from the end; mesothorax strongly suffused with 

 coppery red, microscopically tessellate and chjsely punctured with 

 punctures of two sizes; scutellum shining, with punctures of two 

 sizes; basal area of metathorax minutely roughened, not enclosed; 

 tubercles with a dense short fringe of white hair; pubescence of 

 legs all pale, more or less yellowish ; tegulse green at base, other- 

 wise ferruginous; wings rather dusky, nervures and stigma dark 

 ferruginous; compared with J/, idalia the marginal cell is much 

 shorter, the second submarginal larger, and the third higher in 

 . proportion to its length; abdomen with moderately dense small 

 punctures, marking the insertion of the hairs; second and follow- 

 ing segments with some inconspicuous short black hairs ; hind 

 margins of third and fourth segments Avhite-pruinose; apex with 

 short black hair, slightly mixed with pale ; extreme sides of abdo- 

 men with shining pale hair. 



Hah. — Chapada, April. One specimen. 



Augochlora berenice Smith, l^TO. 



if'7 6. — Corumbii, April. One £ . Uruguay (Smith). 



The Corumba specimen is about 9 mm. long, and the basal area 




358^ PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



of the metatliorax is not enclosed by a ridge; still, it accords so 

 well with the description of berenice that it must be assumed to be 

 identical until a comparison with the type proves otherwise. The 

 punctures of the mesothorax are extremely strong and dense. 

 The distance between the lateral ocelli and the eyes is equal to 

 about 2^ times the diameter of an ocellus. The process of the 

 labrum is deeply bifid. 



II. Teeth of hind spur of hind tibia four or moi'e, pointed. 



(i) Scutellum with large punctures, sparse at sides of middle. 



a. Abdomen black. 

 Augochlora polychroa n. sp. 



?. Length about 11 mm., general build of an Andrena. Face 

 brilliant coppery red, vertex green ; mesothorax dull green, with a 

 slight coppery-red lustre ; scutellum, postscutellum and base of 

 metathorax shining brassy green, with a coppery lustre ; pleura 

 greenish black ; abdomen dull black ; legs black. Antennae black, 

 flagellum about twice the length of scape; ocelli ordinary, dis- 

 tance between lateral ocellus and eye about three times the diame- 

 ter of an ocellus; fi*ont very closely and strongly punctured; cly- 

 peus strongly puactured, a broad black triangle on its anterior 

 margin; mandibles piceous, the tootli on inner margin very short; 

 mesothorax and pleura very strongly and closely punctured ; base of 

 metathorax microscopically tessellate, shining, with a beautiful 

 purple iridescence in certain lights, not enclosed; sides of meta- 

 thorax white-hoary; pubescence of legs shining grayish; tegulie 

 piceous, a little green in front; wings smoky, nervures and stigma 

 piceous, stigma quite small ; abdomen microscopically tessellate, 

 well punctured, but the punctures shallow, very slightly hauy, 

 hair at apex black, at sides beneath white. 



Hah. — Santarem; one specimen. The coloration is partly as in 

 A. hebescens, but the present species is easily separated by the 

 black abdomen, color of pubescence of legs, etc. 



b. Abdomen green, or cupreous-greeu. 

 a. Vertex and mesothorax gi'een. 



§. Abdomen with a coppery lustre. 



Augochlora smitMana n. sp. 



?. Length 12^ mm., stoutly built. Brilliant yellowish-green, 

 the abdomen with a strong coppery lustre. Pubescence short and 




1900.] KATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 359 



scanty, pale mixed with black on face, vertex, mesothorax and 

 abdomen except the first segment. Face broad; clypeus and 

 extreme sides of face coppery; front extremely closely punctured; 

 clypeus and supraclypeal area sparsely punctured; antennse black, 

 scape punctured ; sides of anterior margin of prothorax strongly 

 augulate; mesothorax very strongly and closely punctured, it and 

 the scutellum often tinged with coppery red; base of metathorax 

 granular, the extreme base with short and vague longitudinal 

 ridges ; femora and tibiie green, tibite tufted with black hair api- 

 cally; tarsi piceous, with pale hair; tegulse fulvotestaceous, green 

 at extreme base; wings smoky, nervures and stigma dark testaceous; 

 abdomen green with a coppery lustre, punctured, the hind margins 

 of the segments with a very narrow and even fulvous fringe; 

 fifth segment and apex covered with black hair, sides of apical 

 segment with little silvery patches; ventral surface with pale hair. 



For the d^, see below. 



Hah. — Chapada, March and April; 12 specimens. The species 

 is named after its dicoverer. 



Var. a. Basal portion of metathorax longitudinally plicate, the 

 plicre distinct and covering its surface. 



Hah. — Chapada, September. One specimen. 



§§, Abdomen with a j^urple-blue lustre, 

 AugocMora heterochroa n. sp. 



?. Length 10 mm.; blue-green, with beautiful purple reflec- 

 tions on the metathorax and abdomen; extreme sides of face, and 

 edge of the black anterior margin of clypeus, coppery. Femora 

 and tibiie olive green, tarsi dark reddish brown. Antenna? black ; 

 face broad, front extremely closely punctured, clypeus sparsely 

 punctured in the middle ; maxillary palpi with the last joint slen- 

 der, longer than the ^penultimate one ; thorax with fairly abundant 

 woolly -looking white hair; mesothorax extremely closely punc- 

 tured; scutellum, between the punctures, microscopically tessellate; 

 base of metathorax with numerous longitudinal ridges ; pubescence 

 of legs pale with a brownish tinge; tegulfe rufotestaceous, with a 

 green patch at base in front; wings faintly smoky toward the 

 apex ; nervures and stigma dark testaceous ; abdomen white-hoary, 

 with small punctures at the insertion of the hairs ; the middle 

 (purple) portions of the segments after the first with more or less 

 short black hair, the apical (green) margins with very short white 




360 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



hair; apex with black hair, sides beneath with white hair. For 

 the d^, see below. 



Hah. — Chapada, March, October. Two specimens. 



Var. a. Longitudinal plicae of base of raetathorax feeble or 

 absent. 



Hah. — Chapada, April, September, October. Four specimens. 



The sculpture of the base of the raetathorax is usually consid- 

 ered of specific value, but in this and the last species it is certainly 

 variable. 



/?. Vertex and mesothorax cupreous. 

 AugocMora goeldii n. sp. 



9. Length 10^ mm. Differs from A. smithiana by the smaller 

 thorax, tlie angles of the prothorax in front much less prominent 

 and less acute; the face, vertex and mesothorax coppery red, the 

 other parts of the head and thorax yellowisli -green with coppery 

 tints, nowhere blue-green; middle tibiic moi'e slender; abdomen 

 blue-green, hind margin of second segment, and of third more or 

 less, steel-blue ; narrow hair-fringes white instead of fulvous. 

 Hair of apical segment black; base of raetathorax granular; 

 antenna) black; punctures of mesothorax of two sizes. 



Hah. — Chapada, one specimen. I thought at first this might 

 be an extreme variety of A. smithiana, but there are so raany 

 differences that I can only treat it as a distinct species. 



(ii) Scutellura with punctures of two sizes, the sraall oues the 

 more numerous. 



a. Abdomen crirason. 

 Augochlora wallacei n. sp. 



?. Length nearly 9 mm. Head and thorax bluish-green, abdo- 

 men shining crimson. To the naked eye this is exactly like A. 

 suhignHa from ^Mexico, except that the wings are a little more 

 smoky. The lens reveals the following differences: Lateral angles 

 of prothorax more produced; scutellura shiny, Avith the punctures 

 conspicuously of two sizes (in xnbifjnita the scutellura is granular 

 and closely punctured all over) ; punctures of second abdominal 

 segment very distinct, resembling those of the first, but not quite 

 so strong. Antennio black, fiagellura pruinose with very short 

 yellowish-gray pubescence. Process of labrton bifid. Basal en- 

 closure of metathorax plicate, surrounded by an obtuse but con- 

 spicuous microscopically tessellate rira. 




1900.] NATURAL gCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361 



Hah. — Chapada, March, April, December. Five specimens. 



Dedicated to A. R. Wallace. 



b. Abdomen green. 



a. A transverse groove behind the ocelli; margins of abdominal 

 segments black. ^ 

 Augochlora chapadae n. sp. 



?. Length 10 to 11 mm.; blue-green ^vith purple tints, some 

 specimens much bluer than others. Face broad only just above 

 the antenna?, the eyes being deeply emarginate; antenme black, 



^ It will be useful to give a separate table of the species of Augochlora 

 having the hind margins of the abdominal segments black. The new 

 species will be found described in detail further on. A. labrosa Say, from 

 Mexico, cannot be included because of the inadequate description, though 

 it probably may be recognized when specimens come to hand (see Canad. 

 Kntom., 1897, p. 6S). There is only one species {A. chapadce) in the fol- 

 lowing table known to belong to Augocldoropsis : 



Punctures of me-«othorax extremely large (Chapada), /ox?«?/o, Ckll., $, (^. 

 Punctures of mesothorax small and close. ...... 1 



1. Margin of clypeus, labium and mandibles yellow 



graminea (Fabr.) Smith, (^ 



Mandibles dark ; clypeus usually without yellow (apically margined 



■with yellow in hingJianii). ........ 2 



2. Small, 6 mm. long, wings rufohyaline, base of metathorax with raciiatiDg 



plicae, and surrounded by a shining ridge ; head and thoiax bras.ey 

 grten, ........ nrania, Smith, C 



Larger, 7 mm. long at least, and of these the smaller species {iheringi. 

 cceruUor and ftronia) with the enclosure of the metathorax not. 

 bounded by a shining ridge, ........ ^ 



3. Punctures of scutellum large ; blue-green species with purple tints, 4 

 Punctures of scutellum of two sizes, small and large (not described in 



f(ronia\] ventral surface of abdomen without a tooth, . . 6 



Punctures of scutellum extremely dense, not of two sizes ; abdomen with 



a sub-basal ventral tooth i Corumba) . . . muUeri, Ckll., 2 



4. Abdomen black, tinged with green and blue ; apical joint of antenna 



normal (Mexico), toicnsendi, Ckll., ^f 



Abdomen brilliantly colored, green to purple. .... 5 



5. Base of metathorax with regular radiating plicte ; apical joint of antenna 



normal i Pedra Branca, Bolivia), hdti. Ckll., ^' \perarigv.sta, Ckll._, (^ 



Base of metathorax labyrinthine with irregular vermiform ridges ; apical 



joint of antenna hooked (Mexico), . . hinghctmi, C]^\\., :^ 



6. Larger, about 10 mm. long ; base of metathorax with fine vermiform 



ridges, chapada, Ckll., 2 



Smaller, 7 to 3 mm. long ; base of metathorax with longitudinal pliciE ; 

 hind spur of hind tibia in i simple or merely ciliate (not pectinate), 7 



7. Punctures of mesothorax extremely close ; greener species ; wings strongly 



smokv ; legs with green onlv on hind coxk (Santarem), 



iJieringi, Ckll., 2 



Punctures of mesothorax not nearly so close ; bluer speiies ; wings 



almost clear ; green of legs confined to coxse and anterior femora 



(Corumba) cperulior, Ckll., 2 



Ditfers from cceruUor by the pubescence of the legs being black ; from 

 iheringi by the wings being only faintly clouded ^t apex, 



feronia. Smith. 




362 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



scape dull, -with sliort black bristles; front extremely densely punc- 

 tured; clypeus Avitli large sliallow punctures, its anterior edge 

 broadly black ; mandibles only faintly rufesceut at the ends; 

 j)rocem of labrum entire ; pubescence of cheeks white, of lower 

 parts of face white with a little black intermixed, of front and 

 vertex black, of mesothorax and scutellum black, of postscutellum 

 black in front and white behind, of metathorax white, of legs 

 pale (a dense white floccus on hind femora), of hind tarsi fuscous, 

 of hind tibia? fuscous in front and white behind, of abdomen pale, 

 with some black on the second and following dorsal segments, of 

 apex of abdomen dirty grayish; mesothorax dullish, densely punc- 

 tured, rather sparsely on disc; scutellum with well-separated 

 punctures, conspicuously of two sizes; base of metathorax with 

 obhque wavy ridges; teguhe dark reddish-brown, green at 

 extreme base; wings slightly smoky, with a yellowish tinge; ner- 

 vures and stigma dark brown, the latter rather reddish ; legs dark 

 brown, the femora and tibite in front green; abdomen with very 

 close strong punctures, green with purple tints, apical margins of 

 segments broadly black. 



Sab. — Chapada, March, April, December; Corumba, April 

 (with label h. 1. ) ; Maruru, April. Five specimens. 



13. No transverse groove behind the ocelli; margins of abdom- 

 inal segments green. 



Augochlora brasiliana n. sp. 



?. Length S\ to lO^mm. ; bluish-green, the abdomen with tints 

 of purple-blue ; occasionally the head and thorax are yellowish- 

 green, with coppery tints. Face rather broad, emargination of 

 eyes shallow; antennre black; front closely punctured; clypeus 

 with semilunar punctures, a dark purple or purple -black triangular 

 area on its anterior margin; process of labrum deeply bifid ; pubes- 

 cence of cheeks white, of face yellowish-white, some black hairs 

 on front and vertex, of mesothorax and scutellum black with a 

 little pale intermixed, of pleura, postscutellum and metathorax 

 dull white with a brownish tint, of legs brownish-white and rather 

 abundant, of abdomen brownish-white, with inconspicuous black 

 hairs on the second and following dorsal segments, of apex of 

 abdomen brownish-gray to blackish, but never altogether black; 

 mesothorax minutely granular, the punctures extremely dense at 

 the sides, but in the middle well separated, some larger than others; 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 363 



scutellum with punctures of two size.'?, but the smaller ones not 

 very small; base of raetathorax microscopically tessellate, not 

 plicate nor enclosed ; legs dark brown, femora, and tarsi in front, 

 green; teguke reddish -testaceous, green at base; wings yellowish- 

 hyaline, nervmres and stigma dull testaceous; abdomen with only 

 small punctures marking the insertion of the hairs, dorsal seg- 

 ments shot with brilliant purple, hind margins of first two segments 

 very shortly and regularly ciliate with yellowish-white hair, apical 

 margins of third and fourth segments broadly pruinose; ventral 

 surface more or less tinged with green. 



Hah. — Corumba, February, April, two marked "lowland;" 

 Chapada, December; Pedra Branca (Bolivia), April. Fifteen 

 specimens. This differs from the description of ^-1. paphia Smith, 

 by its somewhat larger size, flagellum not testaceous beneath, 

 margins of abdominal segments green instead of purple, the purple 

 color being on the middle and anterior portions of the segments. 

 It is just possible that paphia is one of the forms of this variable 

 species, but the probabilities are against it. 



There is also a specimen of hrasiliana marked Uacarizal, Feb- 

 ruary. 



(iii) ScuteUum with large close punctures all over. 



a. Abdomen coppeiy, clothed with short fulvous hair, the seg- 

 ments also with narrow even fulvous fringes. 

 Augochlora vesta Smiih, var. cupreola n. var. 



?. Length 8 to 9 mm.; yellowish-green, abdomen brassy green, 

 tinged with coppery-red, or even entirely coppery-red except the 

 extreme base. Differs from the description of veda by the rather 

 larger size, flagellum hardly or not testaceous beneath toward the 

 apex, pubescence of legs -very pale fulvous, instead of " dark 

 fuscous," abdomen usually more or less green, and with only 

 small, though distinct, punctures marking the insertion of the 

 hairs. Apex of abdomen black; base of metathorax not enclosed 

 by a shining rim, variably roughened, but without distinct plica ; 

 punctures of mesothorax and front strong and as dense as is possi- 

 ble; anterior margin of clypeus with a semilunar black area, 

 usually narrowly edged with crimson; process of labrum bipartite. 

 For the c?, see below. 



Hab. — Chapada, February, ^Nfarch, April, September, October, 

 December; Corumba, April, one only; Maruru, April, two; San 




364 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



tarem, three. Twenty-three speoiroens iu all. A. vesta was 

 described from Columbia and it is quite likely that it is a distinct 

 species from cupreola, though closely allied. The specimens of 

 cupreola from the basins of the Amazon (Santarem) and the Para- 

 guay (Corumba, etc. ) do not seem to differ. 



A. pandora diffei's from cupreola by having the metathoracic 

 enclosure bounded by a distinct elevated margin, and the flagellum 

 fulvous beneath. A. acidalia differs in the same respects. 



b. Abdomen green. 



Augochlora calypso Smith, 1879. 



9. Process of lab rum bipartite; base of metathoraz longitu- 

 dinally plicate, with a raised rim, 



Sab. — Two from Santarem, the type locality. Also two 

 closely allied species, or subspecies, separable as follows: 

 Wings strongly smoky ; ridge of metathoracic enclosure not 

 marked by a groove ; hair-fringe at apex of first abdomi- 

 nal segment entire; extreme sides of face deep blue vary- 

 ing to bluish-green. (Santarem) . . calypso, s. str. 

 Wings clear or almost. 



Ridge of metathoracic enclosure marked by a groove; ex- 

 treme sides of face coppery; hair-fringe at apex of first 

 abdominal segment broadly interrupted iu the middle. 

 (Chapada, February). 



calypso subsp. cupreotincta, n. subsp. 

 Ridge of metathoracic enclosure not marked by a groove; 

 extreme sides of face coppery ; hair-fringe at apex of 

 first abdominal segment entire; head smaller, and face 

 more narrowed below than in the other two forms. (Rio 

 de Janeiro, November). 



calypso subsp. eucalypso, u. subsp. 

 All three agree in having the pubescence of the abdomen light 

 fulvous, the mandibles with a green spot near base, the flagellum 

 testaceous beneath at apex, and the ventral surface of the abdo- 

 men green, or mostly so. 



Augochlora monoohroa n. sp. 



?. Length 8 to 9 mm. Brilliant bluish -green, the abdomen 

 varying from green to almost entirely purple, always very shiny. 

 No coppery tints, except sometimes on the margin of the large 




1900.] XATUEAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 365 



black clypeal patch. Coxre, femora and tibiie green, hind tarsi 

 more or less green at base ; tarsi otherwise piceou.s, the small 

 joints deep ferruginous; pubescence of legs pale fulvous, becoming 

 golden on tarsi, of face and cheeks pale, some black on vertex, of 

 mesothorax black and pale mixed, of postscutellum and sides of 

 metathorax pale and rather long, of apex of abdomen brown-black 

 with a coppery lustre. Base of metathorax rugose, with vague 

 plicse. Process of labrum bifid. This is very similar indeed 1o A. 

 heteroehroa, but diflers as follows: It is smaller, with the abdomen 

 shorter and more convex, shining and without distinct pruinose 

 bands; the even fringe at the apical margins of the first two seg- 

 ments is somewhat shorter, and the apical portions of these seg- 

 ments are not pruinose; the apical portions of the third and fourth 

 segments are white-pruinose, but the fact is not conspicuous except 

 in certain lights ; most of the ventral surface of the abdomen is 

 metallic green ; the hind tibiie are green on both sides ; the sides 

 of the metathorax near the truncation are smooth and shining (in 

 heteroehroa they are covered with punctures) ; the scutellum is 

 much more densely punctured ; the mesothorax is also much more 

 densely punctured, and the punctuies are stronger; the stigma 

 usually has a more ferruginous tint. 



Hab. — Corumba, April, one is marked " h. 1." : Pedra Branca, 

 April. Ten specimens. Four from Chapada, March and August, 

 and one from Uacarizal, February, represent a slight variety, 

 averaging a yellower green, with the fringe at apex of first two 

 abdominal segments usually a trifle longer, and pale fulvous. 

 Augochlora monochroa subsp. nov. moreirae. 



? . Brassy green with coppery tints ; abdomen rather longer 

 and less shiny than in monochroa, decidedly less globose; anterior 

 lateral edges of prothorax prominent but rounded (in monochroa 

 they are distinctly augulate j ; fringe at apex of first and second 

 abdominal segments pale and short; a smooth punctureless area 

 on each side of metathorax just below the basal area (in hetero- 

 ehroa and brasiliana this place is covered with punctures). Pro- 

 cess of labrum bipartite; hairs at apex of clypeus orange-fulvous; 

 mandibles with a green spot ; wings rather strongly suffused with , 

 brownish. 



Hab. — Rio de Janeiro, November. One specimen, Named 

 after Carlos Moreira. 




366 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Both monochroa and vioreirce are easily distinguished from the 

 calypso forms by the rugulose base of the metathorax; in calypso 

 and its subspecies this is plicate, with a shining rim. 

 AugocMora janeirensis n. sp. 



9. Length 8 to 10 mm; blue-green, -with purple tints on the 

 abdomen in certain lights. Process of labrum bipartite; wings 

 rather smoky, especially toward the apex; base of metathorax finely 

 rugulose, not plicate ; sides of metathorax just below the basal area 

 jnmctured. 



This is so very close to monochroa, heterochroa and brasilia)ia 

 that it is only necessary to mention the comparative differences. 

 A. janeirensis differs at once from all these three by the compara- 

 tively long and quite fuscous hair-fringes of the first and second 

 abdominal segments, and by the stronger punctuation of the abdo- 

 men, although the punctures are still only those at the bases of the 

 hairs. It agrees with heterochroa and braslliana, and differs from 

 monochroa, in having the sides of the metathorax just below the 

 basal area punctured ; it differs from heterochroa and brasiliana in 

 the punctuation of the scutellum, which is very strong, the punc- 

 tures large and close, and not of two sizes. 



Hab. — Rio de Janeiro, November; two specimens. For the 

 cJ', see below. 



In calypso, monochroa, janeirensis, and the various subspecies, 

 the distance between the lateral ocelli and the orbital margin is not 

 (usually not nearly) so great as that between the outermost mar- 

 gins of the ocelli. In the next species (bucejihala) the (.celli are 

 small and close together, and the distance between the lateral 

 ocelli and the orbital margin is as great as the distance between 

 the outermost margins of the lateral ocelli. A. bucephala will 

 also be recognized by its relatively large size, and very broad face. 

 Augochlora bucephala Smith, 185o. 



?. Length about 11 mm,; process of labrum bipartite; base of 

 metathorax minutely roughened, not plicate. In our specimens 

 the ffagellum is not "testaceous beneath," though pruinose, and 

 the tarsi are much darker than I should call " ferruginous." 

 The mesotliorax has punctures distinctly of two sizes, as described 

 by Smith. 



Hab. — ^Rio de Janeiro, November. Seven specimens. For the 

 d^, see beiow. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 367 



Series II. Hind spur of hind tibia of 2 simple or not pectinate.^ Here 

 also will be found males which belong to Augochloropsis. 



1. Abdomen with a subbasal ventral tooth. 



Augochlora mulleri n. sp. 



?. Length 9 to 12 mm., rather narrow, dark shining pea- 

 cock blue or blue-green; hind margin of first abdominal segment 

 very narrowly black, of second broadly black, of the third and 

 fourth deep purple with the extreme edge black; a tooth, directed 

 obliquely backwards, on the first ventral segment. Punctuation 

 of face, front, vertex, mesothorax, scutellum and sides of meta- 

 thorax excessively close; punctures of clypeus large, on a shining 

 surface, clypeus onlv very narrowly edged in front with black; 

 front with a strong if low median keel; flagellum fulvous beneath; 

 lower part of face with sparse short white pubescence; mandibles 

 with a dark purple spot at base, only seen in certain lights ; ^jj-o- 

 cess of labrum truncate, not bifid, but the truncation nodulose ; base 

 of metathorax longitudinally plicate; the truncation, and the area 

 between the truncation and the basal portion, coarsely roughened, 

 this roughening gradually changes at the sides of the metathorax 

 into dense strong punctures; tegula? piceous with a blue and green 

 patch on the anterior portion; wings rather smoky, especially 

 toward the ends; nervures and stigma dark; legs piceous with white 

 pubescence, tarsi dark ferruginous, front and hind coxa^ tinged 

 with blue; middle coxce very small, their trochanters broad and 

 flattened, ivith the hind edge sharp; abdomen with the first and 

 second segments strongly punctured, the punctures not connected 

 with the pubescence, which is lacking on these parts. 



Hab. — Corumba, April (two are marked h. 1.); Chapada, 

 December, January; Pedra Branca (Bolivia), April. Sixty- four 

 specimens. Dedicated to the memory of Fritz Miiller. 



2. Abdomen without a subbasal ventral tooth. 



(i) Femora and tibiie green, tarsi yellow: males with anterior 

 margin of clypeus not at all yellow. These appear to be all males 

 of Aurjochloropsis. 



a. First joint of flagellum swollen in front, honey-color, con- 

 trasting with the rest of the antenna, which is black; antennae 

 rather short for a male. 




368 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Augoehlora callichroa b. sp. 



d". Length 8|- mm. ; brilliant yellowisli-green, the abdomen 

 slightly brassy. Head rather densely covered with very pale 

 yellowish hair, becoming white on cheeks; front very densely punc- 

 tured; clypeus with large punctures ; mesothorax shining, with 

 large, strong and well-separated punctures, except at the sides, 

 where they become confluent; scutellum with very large punctures, 

 a round impunctuate space on each side of the middle; base of 

 metathorax enclosed by a rim, and covered Avith strong wavy 

 plicai; sides below the enclosure Avith very strong punctures; wings 

 perfectly hyaline; nervures and stigma rather dark testaceous; 

 abdomen very shiny, punctures of first segment strong, of second 

 much more minute ; hind margins of first two segments with a 

 narrow even pale fulvous band, the surface generally on the apical 

 half thinly covered with pale fulvous hair. 



Hah. — Chapada, December, one. This may be the & oi A. 

 calypso subsp. cupreotinda. The rather peculiar sculpture of the 

 base of the metathorax is quite of the same type, but the punc- 

 tures of the scutellum are larger and much less dense in the present 

 insect than in cupreotinda. 



fi. First joint of flagellum normal in color and form. Hind 

 coxa3 furnished above with an apical tooth. 



§. Small, not over 8 mm. long : abdomen strongly tinged with 

 coppery red. 

 Augochlora vesta vivr. cupreola, Ckll., (^ {^ supra). 



Hab. — Chapada, December. 



§§. Larger, at least 9 mm. ; abdomen at most slightly coppery. 



X. Blue-green species, the abdomen shining purple in certain 

 lights. 

 Augochlora janeirensis Ckll., (^^ ( 9 supra). 



Hah. — Rio dc Janeiro, November. Variable in size, like the 9. 



XX. Yellowish-green, the abdomen often more or less brassy, or 

 even slightly coppery. 



y. Enclosure at base of metathorax smooth and shining; abdo- 

 men ;iarrow, parallel-sided. 

 Augochlora bucephala Smith ^ ( 9 supra). 



Hah. — Rio do Janeiro, November. The head is only of the 

 ordinary size, not large as in the ? . 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 369 



yy. Enclosure at base of metathorax covered with vermiform 

 plicte, more or less longituciiual. 

 Augochlora smithiana Ckll., ^ (Q supra). 



Hab. — Chapada, April, October. Less bulky than the ?, with 

 the punctures of the mesothorax and scutellum more dense. 



(ii) Tarsi dark. 



a. Base of metathorax longitudinally plicate. 



§. Scutellum with very small close punctures. 

 Augochlora iheringi n. sp. 



? . Length about 8 mm. ; rather dull blue-green, the middle of 

 the face yellowish-green, the clypeus marked with peacock blue, the 

 middle of the basal area of the metathorax purple, the legs very 

 dark brown, only the hind coxse with some green; abdomen black 

 dorsally, blue-green at the sides, the hind margins of the segments 

 broadly black ; wings grayish-fulvous. Punctures of front, meso- 

 thorax and scutellum small and very dense, the front may be said 

 to be minutely rugose ; base of metathorax longitudinally plicate, 

 the plicte numerous, strong and distinct; sides below the basal area 

 minutely roughened, with no shining rim; truncation of meta- 

 thorax dull, its lower part striate ; abdomen impunctate dorsally, 

 sides of first segment with very small punctures; flagellum ob- 

 scurely ferruginous beneath; mandibles ferruginous in the middle; 

 process of labriim truncate, not bifid; ventral surface of abdomen 

 piceous, with long pale hair ; scutellum and postscutellum with 

 sparse black hairs, the latter with also pale hairs. 



Sab. — Santarem. One specimen. 

 Augochlora caerulior n. sp. 



^ . Length 8 mm. ; shining prussian green, the hind margins of 

 the abdominal segments black. Legs piceous, tarsi and anterior 

 tibife dark ferruginous, front and hind coxa.' green; process qflabrum 

 entire, broadly truncate, longitudinally plicatulate ; antennae piceous, 

 flagellum ferruginous beneath; punctures of front extremely dense, 

 of clypeus large; mesothorax minutely granular, punctures very 

 distinct, in the middle well separated; punctures of scutellum 

 extremely small, with a few larger ones interspersed, but even 

 these not so large as those of the mesothorax; base of raetathorax 

 strongly longitudinally plicate, no shining rim; teguhe dark ferru- 

 ginous; wings slightly dusky, nervures and stigma dai'k brown; 

 •24 




370 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



abdomen with minute punctures; ventral surface very dark brown. 

 Hair of legs all pale. 



Hah. — Corumba, April. Two specimens. 



§§. Scutelhim with large punctures. 



AugocMora batesi n. sp. 



cT. Length 9 to 10^ mm.; brilliant green, more or less golden 

 about the middle of the face, abdomen with puqile shades iu cer- 

 tain lights; head ordinary, antennae very dark brown, not very 

 long; punctuation of front and vertex extremely close; lower sides 

 of face and clypeus, and cheeks, conspicuously bearded with white 

 hair; mandibles with a green spot at l)ase; process of labrum bifid; 

 mesothorax microscopically tessellate, with close large punctures; 

 scutellum the same; base of metathorax irregularly longitudinally 

 plicate, no shining rim, sides l^elow l)ase very densely and strongly 

 punctured ; truncation of metathorax quite densely punctui-ed; 

 tegulse green and punctured at base; wings hyaline, nervures and 

 stigma dull pale reddish-l)rowu; coxoe, femora and tibia- green, 

 tarsi very dark brown, pubescence of legs wholly pale and quite 

 dense; abdomen strongly punctured, even the depressed margins 

 of the segments punctured ; hind margins of the first two segments 

 with a narrow even fulvous hair-band ; hind margins of third and 

 fourth segments broadly white pruiuose; sides and base of abdo- 

 men quite hairy; on each side, from beneath the margin of the fourth 

 segment, jyi'ojects a little brush of hair, slightly fulvous in color; lii'st 

 three ventral segments green, the other's dark-brown. 



Hub. — Chapada, September, October. Several specimens. 

 Evidently a male Augochloropsis. It greatly resembles A. hetero- 

 chroa, but differs in several particulai-s, such as the more prominent 

 lateral angles of the prothorax. It is also very similar to A. acis 

 Smith, but that is smaller. 



AugocMora belti n. sp. 



d^. Length 10 mm.; blue-green, with strong purple tints, espe- 

 cially on the abdomen, strongly punctured, and little hairy. Eyes 

 deeply emarginate; face considerably narrowed below; clypeus 

 with large close strong punctures, its apical margin narrowly 

 black; front and vertex extremely densely punctured; mandibles 

 slender, pointed, with no inner tooth ; process of labrum a broad 

 crenulate ridge, not at all bifid : tongue long and slender; tiagellum 




1900.] XATUEAL SCIE>'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 871 



clear ferruginous beneath; anterior lateral angles of prothorax 

 prominent; mesothorax and scutellum ■\vitli dense strong punctures; 

 base of metathorax with strong longitudinal plicK, the intervals 

 between them shining; truncation of metathorax ill-defined and 

 densely punctured; punctures of sides of metathorax conspicu- 

 ously larger than those on and near the truncation; a small 

 minutely granular area, free from punctures, on each side below 

 the enclosure ; tegular shining piceous, convex, punctured and green 

 at the extreme base ; Avings rather dusky toAvard the tips, nervures 

 and stigma dark-browu; legs piceous; coxte, anterior femora and 

 the other femora more or less, green; tarsi becoming ferruginous 

 at the ends; abdomen with su1)parallel sides, strongly punctured, 

 the punctures on the first segment largest; liiud margin of first 

 segment very narrowly, of second segment broadly, of the other 

 segments rather broadly, black; first, third, fourth and fifth ven- 

 tral segments tinged with blue; apex with two pale orange fimbri- 

 ate processes. 



Hah. — Pedra Branca, April. One. 

 Var. perangusta n. var. 



cJ'. Length 8^- to 9i- mm. ; narrower ; second submarginal cell 

 narrow, higher than its breadth at base, whereas in helti it is much 

 broader. 



Hah. — Corumba, April, several; Pedra Branca, April, one. 

 This looks as if it might be a distinct species, but the characters 

 mentioned are the only ones I can find to separate it. The puuc- 

 tui'eless space at the sides of the metathorax just behind the en- 

 closure is wanting in the Corumba examples. 

 Augochlora foxiana n. sp. 



?. Length 9 to 10 mm. ; head ordinary, front rough with large 

 and extremly close punctures; face and front greenish golden to 

 golden green, strongly tinged with coppery-red, especially on the 

 supraclypeal area; vertex and cheeks green; antennse dark, flagel- 

 lum faintly tinged with ferruginous beneath; mandibles bidentate 

 at apex, ferruginous in the middle, with no green spot at base; 

 process of labrum bifid, consisting of two little nodules; anterior 

 lateral angles of prothorax approximately right angles; thorax 

 except the middle of the mesothorax (which is dull black) bluish- 

 green, verdigris color; mesothorax with extremely large and more 

 or less confluent punctures, the area between them dull because 




372 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



microscopically tessellate ; scutellum with large uot very numerous 

 punctures, and numerous minute ones between; basal area of 

 metathorax narrow in a longitudinal direction, delicately longi- 

 tudinally plicate, with no shining rim; sides and truncation of 

 metathorax rough with large punctures; teguke very dark brown, 

 without any green ; wings smoky, nervures and stigma very dark 

 brown; second submargiual cell about as broad as long; legs very 

 dark brown, anterior coxie tinged Avith greenish ; pubescence of legs 

 pale fulvous; abdomen black, with the segments (especially the 

 first) showing a variable amount of green, the margins, however, 

 always black, that of the first only very narrowly so; where the 

 segments are green, they are punctured (the tii'st segment strongly 

 so), where they are black, impunctate: apex with short sooty hair; 

 ventral surface without any green. 



c?. About 8 mm. long, in most respects similar to the female, 

 but more slender, with somewhat longer autennse; face greener, 

 mesothorax with less black; anterior margin of clypeus, labmim, 

 and mandibles except their ferruginous ends, dull yellow; anterior 

 and middle femora green; anterior tihive and middle and hind 

 tibipe in front, lively ferruginous, or orange- ferruginous. 



Hah. — Ohapada, January, March, April, September, November, 

 December. Fifty specimens (cf in November). 

 Var. perimelas n. var. 



9. Perhaps a trifle larger; face and vertex coppery-red; flagel- 

 lum distinctly ferruginous beneath; mesothorax with the punctures 

 a trifle smaller, black, with only the extreme lateral and hind 

 margins greenish; scutellum bhick; postscutellum black tinged 

 with blue or green in the middle; basal enclosure of metathorax 

 deep blue, varying to green; pleura black, or faintly tinged with 

 blue; abdomen black, with only a little blue or green at the sides 

 of the first, and sometimes second and third segments. Process of 

 labrum binodulose or entire, really a fair intermeiliate between the 

 two types (bifid and entire), varying in both directions. 



Hab. — Corumba, April, two; Rio de Janeiro, November, one. 

 Perhaps a distinct species. 



The species is named after ^Ir. William J. Fox. who has con- 

 tributed so much to the knowledge of Brazilian Hymeuoptera. 



/3. Base of metathorax granular. 



§. Green species. 




1900.] XATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 378 



Augochlora heterochroa Ckll., var. a ( 2 supra). 



H<ib. — Corumba, April, several; Chapada, December. Very 

 similar to the ? ; uo yellow ou elypeus, labrum or mandibles. 

 The anterior lateral angles of the prothorax are not prominent as 

 in hated. 



§§. Black species. {Megaloptidia, subg. n. ) 

 Megalopta contradicta u- sp. 



cf. Length 9 to 11 mm., brown-black with sometimes the faintest 

 suggestion of blue about the face and pleura. Ocelli very large, 

 their distance apart and the distance of the lateral ocelli from the 

 eyes considerably less than the diameter of an ocellus; these ocelli 

 resemble those of Sphecodogastra ; eyes very large, emarginate, 

 strongly converging below, so that the lower part of the face is 

 very narrow; sides of face with short white plumose pubescence; 

 vertex with a few dark hairs ; scape rather dark ferruginous ; flagellum 

 delicately pruinose, dark reddish-brown, inclined to be compressed 

 basally; face and front dull, minutely granular; labrum ferrugin- 

 ous, convex, not at all bifid; maxillary palpi light ferruginous, 

 ■with slender joints, the last two longer than the two before; man- 

 dibles short and simple, without any inner tooth ; mesothorax and 

 scutellum rather shining, subsericeous, with shallow indistinct 

 punctures and scattered inconspicuous erect hairs; basal area of 

 metathorax shining, minutely granular, with a few very small in- 

 distinct plicte at its extreme base ; truncation and sides of meta- 

 thorax hoary-pubescent ; lower parts of thorax white-hoaiy ; tegulse 

 shining red -brown; wings yellowish-hyaline, hair}^ nervures and 

 stigma dark ferruginous, second submarginal cell narrow; legs 

 very dark brown, small joints of tarsi ferruginous ; pubescence of 

 legs pale, more or less black on the hind surfaces of the hind 

 tibise and tarsi, and pale ferruginous on the small joints of the 

 tarsi; all the claws deeply cleft ; abdomen very sparingly pubes- 

 cent, subsericeous, impunctate; two brushes of hair projecting 

 from the middle of the apical margin of the fourth ventral seg- 

 ment; apical segments strongly retractile within the othei's, so as 

 to make the abdomen appear truncate. 



Hab. — Santarem, two; Benevide*, July, one. A very singular 

 species. The first recurrent nervure in one specimen joins the second 

 transverse-cubital, but in another enters the third submarginal cell 

 at its exti'eme base. The second recurrent nervure joins the third 

 submarginal cell well before its apex. 




374 proceedings of the academy of [1900. 



Divisions of Augochlora. 



The an^augement of the species given above is artificial, in- 

 tended merely to make easy their identification. It is by no means 

 so simple to construct a natural classification, and the present 

 attempt must be regarded as more or less provisional. 



It will be observed that the first and last species are assigned to 

 Ilegalopta Smith (not Merjaloptera, as Ashmead has it in Tr. Am. 

 Ent Soc, XXVI, 92). They do not agree in detail with the type 

 of that genus, but they have the large ocelli, whereby Ilegalojita 

 differs from Augochlora as Spheeodogastra does from Halidus. 

 Smith figures the second recurrent nervure of Megalopta as inter- 

 stitial with the third transverso-cubital, and Ashmead so has it in 

 his tables; hwt ^xmih^ s, description says that the second recurrent 

 enters the second (error for third) submarginal cell near its apex. 

 In both our species this nervure enters the third submarginal 

 cell a very appreciable distance before the apex. '6\mi\\ figures the 

 first recurrent as entering the second submarginal cell near its 

 middle, but he describes it as entering near or at its apex, as it does 

 in M. idalia, one of the species he had before him. 



31. bitubereulata Smith is to be regarded as the type of Mega- 

 lopta. 31. idalia may prove not to be truly congeneric, when the 

 mouth-parts are properly examined: I have not been able to 

 determine the charactex*s sufficiently from the single example seen. 



31. contradicta is cei'tainly subgenerically distinct, at least. It 

 may be regarded as the type of a new subgenus 3Icgalnptidia, 

 distinguished by the first recurrent nervure being interstitial with 

 the second transverso-cubital, or even entering the third submar- 

 ginal cell, the conspicuously hairy wings, the scutellum convex but 

 not bituberculate. and doubtless other characters which would be 

 apparent on a compai'ison of specimens. 



The remaining species, with normal ocelli, are assigned to 

 Augochlora. 



Augochlora s. str. may be held to include those species in which 

 the hind spur of hind tibia is not pectinate in the ^, and the pro- 

 cess of the labrum is not bifid. 



Augochloropsis Ckll. contains species in which the hind spur of 

 the hind tibia is pectinate in the ^, and the process of the labrum 

 is bifid. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 375 



Eacli of these groups is uumevous in species, and tliey differ 

 appreciably in general appearance, Augoehloropsis being usually 

 broader and less parallel-sided, with more brassy or even coppery 

 colors, Avhile Augochlora s. str. tends to be longer, more blue-green 

 tending to purple, with the hind margins of the abdominal seg- 

 ments commonly black. These characters of form and color, how- 

 ever, are by no means absolute. 



An argument against the separation of these groups as distinct 

 genera is found in the existence of certain intermediate types. 



A. chapadce Ckll. lias the colors of an Augochlora s. str., and 

 also the Jabrum; bat the tibial spurs of Augochloropsi^. It may 

 be regarded as an aberrant Aurjochlora s. str. 



A. foxiana Ckll. has the spurs of Augochlora s. str., but the 

 process of the labrum is of an intermediate type, and quite vari- 

 able. 



^4. midlerl Ckll. is peculiar for the subbasal ventral tooth of the 

 abdomen, j'ecalliug Acanthorinia and Acanthosmioides.' This could 

 be regarded as a subgeneric character. In mulleri ? the labrum 

 is triangular, produced to a point at an angle of about 50°, the 

 sides ciliate with long stout bristles, from 120 to almost 200 a long. 

 The shape is much as in Megalopta. 



The palpi throughout the series have not yet been examined. 

 The following measui'ements (in ,a) relate to two species: 



A. {AugocJdora s. str.) mulleri, Ckll. 2. 



Joint 1. 2. 3. 4. 



Labial palpi, 200. 100. 100. 110. 

 A. {Augochloropsis) vesta var. cuprcola. Ckll. Q. 



Labial palpi, 150. 100. 100. 110. 



The first joint is long and slender in mulleri; shorter and stout 

 in cupreola. 



Joint 1. 2. 3. 



A. mulleri, 2. Maxillary palpi. 100. 140. 130. 

 A. V. cupreola, 2. " ■ 130. 100. 110. 



Thus, while the total lengths of the palpi are so near together 

 as 72-5 and 715 /i, the proportions of the joints are very different. 



Augochlora titania Smith, 1853, is not an Augochlora, and must 

 be Cialled Cori/aura titania. 



- Ashmead, Tr. Am. Ent. Soc, XXVI, 76, describes Acanthosmioides 

 iiuder tbe head of species having the body black, which is incorrect ; it is 

 brassv green. 




376 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Genus AGAPOSTEMON Smith, 1853. 

 Agapostemon semimelleus n. sp. 



?. Length 10 mm. ; head and thorax brilliant yellowish-green; 

 apical margin of clypeus yellow, the yellow edged Avith blackish; 

 mandibles with the basal half yellow, the apical portion dark 

 ferruginous; flagellum ferruginous beneath, its second joint ferru- 

 ginous, shorter than the third; teguke shining rufotestaceous ; 

 wings dullish hyaline, apical margin smoky; uervures and stigma 

 dark-brown; aj)ical half of anterior femora in front, and anterior 

 tibioe in front, yellow; hind tibiw with a patch of black hair 

 above at base; abdomen honey-color, bases of segments 2 to 4 

 with a broad band of yellowish-v/hite pubescence ; immediate sides 

 of anal rims with pale hair, but the segment on each side covered 

 with sooty hair; second to fourth segments with a dark spot at 

 extreme side at base, the first has also a more or less defined dark 

 spot. Anterior lateral angles of prothorax very prominent, acute. 

 Similar in appearance to A. vielliventris Cresson; besides the differ- 

 ences which may be learned from the above description, it differs 

 from melliveniris by its scape not being yellow in front, the meso- 

 thorax and scutellum having scattered dark hairs, the triangle at 

 the base of the metathorax less defined, the first alidominal seg- 

 ment not white-hoary, and the darker legs. The stigma is very 

 dark -brown in semimelleus, clear yellow in melliventris. 



cf. Head and thorax green like the 9 ; clypeus broadly mar- 

 gined Avith yellow, the yellow coming to a point above in the middle 

 line; scape yellow in front, flagellum ferruginous beneath; legs 

 yelloAv, hind coxtc green above; hind femora swollen, dark-brown 

 above at apex; hind tibia? with a broad stripe of dark-brown be- 

 hind on the basal half; abdomen strongly punctured, yellow, with 

 broad black bands on the apical portions of tlie first to sixth 

 segments. 



Hah. — Chapada, January, both sexes. 



Agapostemon ohapadensis u. sp. 



?. Length 10 mm. ; head and thorax brilliant green; ahdovien 

 black. Yellow markings of clypeus and mandibles, sculpture and 

 pubescence of thorax (except that the scutellum is spai-sely })uuc- 

 tui'ed at the sides of the middle) as in A. semimelleus. Wiugs 

 dusky hyaliue. Legs (h\rk; hind cox.'X} green above: anterior 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 377 



legs, from tlie second third of the femora dowu, orauge-fulvous in 

 front. FlageUum ferruginous beneath. 



Closely related to A. virklula (Fabr. ), but differs by its smaller 

 size, yellower green, clyiDeus margined with yellow, stigma dark- 

 brown (honey-yellow in viridula), base of metathorax more 

 coarsely sculptured, abdomen more strongly punctured, and the 

 anterior lateral angles of prothorax much more acute. 



cf. Resembles that of semimelleus, but differs l)y having the first 

 abdominal segment black at the base, the bands on the other seg- 

 ments very broad, toward the apex practically covering the seg- 

 ments ; the anterior femora Avitli a broad, the middle femora with 

 a narrow, greenish stripe behind; the hind femora mostly dark- 

 brown within, a httle yelloAV blotch on the brown near the hind 

 margin; all the tibia^ and the hind tarsi, marked with brown. 



Hab. — Chapada, March, both sexes; a ? also in January. 




378 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900, 



April 3. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 



Nineteen persons present. 



A paper entitled ' ' Araehnida from Alabama, ' ' by Nathan Banks, 

 was presented for publication. 



The death of St. George Mivart, a correspondent, was announced. 



April 10. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, ]\I.D., in the Chair. 



Seventeen persons present. 



A paper entitled " Ti-ochocyathus Woulmaui, a new coral from 

 the Cretaceous of New Jersey," by T. "NVaylaud Vaughan, was 

 presented for publication. 



Remarks on Water Analysis. — Mr. S. Harbert Hamilton 

 desired to call the attention of the Academy to an observation he 

 had been enabled to make while engaged in the examination of an 

 unusually pure sample of water submitted to the Academy's 

 laboratory by Dr. Dixon. The two standard works the speaker 

 had consulted before undertaking the analysis had directed that a 

 piece of previously ignited pumice stone be dropped into the alem- 

 bic to prevent bumping during the distillation of the albuminoid 

 ammonium compounds. It is possible this is a dangerous method 

 of procedure, for pumice, whether of natural (volcanic) or arti- 

 ficial (blast-furnace) origin is very likely to contain nitrogen, 

 either as sal ammoniac or cyanogen compounds, which would be 

 so held in the pores as to likely escape removal during ignition. 

 Mr. Hamilton was not sure whether this possible source of error 

 had been previously called to the attention of chemists. 




1900.] natural sciexces of philadelphia. 379 



April 17. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 



One hundred j^ersous present. 



A paper entitled " A Review of the Physa3 of Northeastern 

 Illinois," by Frank C. Baker, was presented for publication. 



The death of Charles E. Smith, a member, on the 15th iust. , 

 was announced. 



Respiratory Quotient and Loss in Volume of Expired Air. — Dr. 

 Henry C. Chapman called attention to the fact that the so- 

 called " respiratory quotient," as originally defined by Pfliiger^ is 

 the ratio of the weight of the oxygen absorbed during inspiration 

 to the weight of the oxygen in the carbon dioxide exhaled during 

 expiration. Inasmuch, however, as the volume of carbon dioxide 

 formed is equal to the volume of oxygen entering into its forma- 

 tion, the "respiratory quotient" is usually defined as being the 

 ratio of the volume of oxygen absorbed to the volume of carbon 

 dioxide exhaled. Thus, for example, on the supposition that 

 100 litres of air be inspired, that 4.78 litres = 6.834 gr. of oxy- 

 gen be absorbed, and that 4.34 litres = 6.205 gr. of oxygen be 

 exhaled, the respiratory quotient will be* 



Oxygen 6.205 gr. 4.34 lit. 



= == =0.907 



Oxygen 6.834 4.78 



or 



Carbon dioxide 4.34 lit. 



= = 0. 907 



Oxvgen 4, 78 



It will be observed that in making use of the expression ' ' respira- 

 tory quotient" in the sense used by Pfliiger, it is indifferent 

 whether the oxygen absorbed and that exhaled in the carbon diox- 

 ide be estimated in grammes or litres, but that in the second case 

 the ratio will be only 0.907, when the ratio of volumes are com- 

 pared. It is also quite obvious, though it appears to have hitherto 

 escaped the attention of physiologists, that on the supposition that 

 the " respiratory quotient" =0.907, the loss in the volume of 

 the expired air, as compared with that inspired, must be less than 

 the one-fiftieth of a volume, as usually stated, and as originally 

 determined by Despretz,** rather the one-two hundred and fiftieth 



1 Pfluger's ArcJiiv, XIV, 1877, S. 472. 



^ Annales de chimie et de i^hysiqiie, XXVI, p. 337. 




380 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



of a volume, since 4.78 minus 4.34 = 0.4 the loss, and ^^f = 250. 

 It may be mentioned in this connection that the loss in the vol- 

 ume of the expired air is due to the fact that all of the oxygen 

 absorbed does not reappear in the carbon dioxide exhaled, part of 

 it forming in the economy other combinations, such as water, and 

 to some extent also, sulphuric and phosphoric acids, etc. In order 

 to avoid misunderstanding, it should be stated that as a matter of 

 fact the volume of the expired air is greater than that inspired, on 

 account of the usually higher temperature of the former. When, 

 however, the volumes of the inspired and expired air are reduced 

 to standard temperature and pressure, then the volume of the ex- 

 pired air will be found to be less than that inspired, the loss being 

 about that just stated, varying according to the respiratory quo- 

 tient, the latter depending in turn upon the diet. 



Mpv. D. Shepherd Holman made an illustrated communication 

 on sound-waves. (No abstract.) 



April 24. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixox, M. D., in the Chair. 



Twenty-seven persons present. 



Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., was appointed a member of the 

 Committee on Publications, to fill the vacancy caused by the death 

 of Charles E. Smith. 



The deaths of William Camac, I\I.D., a member, and of Prof. 

 Alphonse Milne Edwards, a correspondent, were announced. 



AValter T. Taggart and Milo G. ]Miller, ]M.D., were elected 

 members. 



The following were ordered to be printed : 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 381 



NOTICES OF NEW JAPANESE LAND SNAILS. 

 BY H. A. PILSBRY. 



Certain species of Japanese land moUusks, described by the 

 author in these Proceedings for 1899, pp. 525-530, have been rede- 

 scribed by Mr. G. K. Gude in Proceedings of the Malacological 

 Society of London, IV, March, 1890, pp. 8-23, Mr. Gude having 

 been unaware of their previous definition. The necessary cor- 

 rections of nomenclature will be made by Mr. Gude in an article 

 now about to be published. The diagnostic characters of a num- 

 ber of new Japanese land snails may be stated as follows : 



Key to Japanese Species of Alycceus. 



a. — Operculum typical; thin, concave and nearly smooth outside. 



b. — Last whorl moderately contracted liehind the aperture. 



c. — Broadly and perspectively umbilicated ; last whorl 



smooth near the aperture; whorls 3^. Alt. 2^, 



diam. 4^ mm. Operculum thin, tawny brown. 



Yokohama, under the bark of pine trees. 



A. japonicus Martens, 

 c'. — Umbilicus moderate and deep, its width contained 3f 

 times in that of shell; last whorl constricted into 

 a smooth neck, beyond which it is striate again; 

 no spiral strite on the early whorls ; whorls oh. 

 Alt. 2.6, diam. 3.75, umbil. 1 mm. Operc. 

 thin, tawny yellow, showing the edges of the 

 whorls slightly. Kashima, Harima. 



A. harimensi-s n. sp. 

 h'. — Last whorl scarcely contracted, rib striate to the aperture, 

 c. — Umbilicus moderate, its width contained 3^ times in 

 that of the shell ; whorls 3^, densely and almost 

 evenly rib-striate to the aperture, not spirally 

 striated. Alt. 1.7, diam. 3.2, width of umbilicus 

 .9 mm. Operc. thin, yellowish. Kashima, Har- 

 ima A. reinhardti n. sp. 



c'. — Umbilicus open; whorls 4, the post-nepionic one spi- 

 rally striate. Alt. 2, diam. 4 mm. Yedo. 



A. nipponeiuis Reinh. 




382 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



a'. — Operculum thickened outside by conspicuous concentric or 

 oblique laminte, thin in the middle (^Metahjcceus n. sect.). 

 h. — Operculum with blackish concentric lamiui^e. Shell 

 openly umbilicate, the umbilicus less than one-third 

 the diameter of shell; whorls 3|-, the post-nepionic 

 spirally striate, the last half of the last swollen and 

 straightened, more finely ril)-striate, then contracted, 

 nearly smooth beyond the contraction. Alt. 2.6, 

 diam. 4, umoilicus 1^ mm. Hakone Mountains. 



A. melanopoma n. sp. 

 6'. — Operculum with raised oblique laminre around the edge 

 of the outer face, like a single coil of tarred rope ; a 

 pit in the middle. Shell with the general shape of 

 ' A. japonicus, the width of umbilicus one -third that of 



the shell; whorls 3|, the post-nei^ionic one not striated 

 spirally, all but the nepiouic finely rib-striate, the last 

 moderately swollen and then somewhat contracted, 

 smooth or nearly so beyond the constriction. Alt. 2.7, 

 diam. 4.7, umbilicus 1.5 mm. Kioto. 



A. hirasel n. sp. 



Full descriptions have been prepared to be published as soon as 

 the necessary figures illustrating them can be drawn. 



Diplommatina pusilla var. omiensis n. var. 



Smaller than D. j^i^silla, and more closely costulate, the inter- 

 vals between the ribleis smooth. Alt. 1.9, diam. 1 mm. 



Ibuki, prov. Omi, Japan (Y. Hirase). 



In the form I have identified as D. jnisillci, the riblets are more 

 spaced, about 12 to a millimeter, on the circumference of the last 

 two whorls, and the intervals are seen to be densely striated spirally 

 on the penultimate whorl, when viewed under a high magnification. 



In var. omiensis there are about 18 riblets in the space of one 

 millimeter, and the interstices look smooth under the same lens. 

 The form is much alike in. the two species, but D. jni.'^i/la is a 

 trifle larger, a specimen measuring alt. 2.2, diam. 1.1 mm. Both 

 are sinistral forms. D. pu.^iUa was collected by Prof, von 3[ar- 

 tens at Uweno, in the immediate vicinity of Tokyo. 



Macrochlamys miorograpta n. sp. 



Shell narrowly umbilicate, the width of umbilicus contained 

 about eighteen times in the diameter of the shell, depres.sed, glossy, 

 pale corneous brown, adults a little whitish around the umbilicus, 

 subtransparent, the earlier whorls visible through the base. Sculp- 




1900.] STATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 383 



ture of slight growth strire and excessively close, deeply engraved 

 and minute spirals. Spire very slightly raised, nai'row ; whorls 4f , 

 slowly increasing, the last much wider, double the width of the 

 preceding, rounded at the periphery. Aperture hut slightly ob- 

 lique, rather broadly lunate, the peristome simple and acute, a 

 little retracted toward the insertion above, the columellar insertion 

 produced forward and a little dilated. 



Alt. 4.6, diam. 9.5 mm. 



Similar in general form to Helix rejecta Pfr. , as figured l)y Rein- 

 hardt,' but mierograpta differs in the less oblique and less laterally 

 dilated aperture, l^o mention of spiral strife is made in the de- 

 scription of H. rejecta. In S. donitzi Reinh. the last whorl is 

 conspicuously narrower, as seen from above. 



Ealiella multivolvis n. sp. 



Shell minute, imperforate, trochiform with convex base and 

 carinated periphery ; thin and subtransparent, of a brownish yellow 

 tint. Surface smooth, glossy beneath, a little less bright above. 

 Spire regularly and straightly conic; the apex obtuse. Whorls 

 6^-7, the first rather large, the rest very narrowly revolving, 

 decidedly convex, the last whorl depressed-globose, with a rather 

 acute peripheral keel and quite convex base, which is narrowly 

 but rather deeply impressed around the axis. Aperture mainly 

 basal, shaped like a narrow, weakly curved crescent, with blunt or 

 truncate ends. Upon the base may be seen, in most specimens, 

 one or two nearly straight white radial stripes, produced by low 

 radiating barriers within, the last one often visible within the 

 mouth, upon the basal wall. 



Alt. 1.7, diam. 2.2 mm. 



Kashima, prov. Harima (Y. Hirase). 



Apparently allied only to K. stenogyra (A. Ad.), from Tsu- 

 Sima, described as a Conulus ; but the present species differs in the 

 strongly convex whorls of the spire. It is also smaller with fewer 

 whorls. The low radial ramparts within the last whorl are similar 

 to those of the American Conulus chersinus dentatus Sterki. 

 Some species of the little group Taxeodonta Pils. have internal 

 armature of the same kind. 



In K. multivolvis the barriers are placed at intervals of a third 



Wahrb. d. d. Malak. Ges., IV, 1877, p. 316, PI. 10, f. 1. 




384 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



of a whorl, wheu more than one is present. Two specimens of six 

 sent by Mr. Hirase show no barriers. 



Vitrea harimensis n. sp. 



Shell narrowly umbilicate, small, depressed, thin, brownish- 

 yellow, translucent, the surface smooth and polished, growth-strire 

 being scarcely visible. Spire slightly convex. Whorls S^, the 

 first one rather large, the rest very slowly widening to the last, 

 which is much wider, about double the width of the preceding. 

 Sutures appressed and margined, the margin concave. Pei'iphery 

 equably rounded, the* base somewhat convex. Aperture somewhat 

 oblique, deeply cresceutic. 



Alt. 1.8, diam. 3.5 mm. ; width of umbilicus 0. o mm. 



Kashima, Harima, Japan (Y. Hirase). 



With much the form of V. radiatella Reiuh. , this species is dis- 

 tinguished by the smoothness of the brilliantly glossy surface. 

 Mr. G. K. Gude has recently placed radiatella under Zonitoid&s 

 nitldus as a synonym, but from the description aud figure given by 

 Mr. Reiuhardt I am quite unable to follow him. 



Georissa japonica n. sp. 



Shell minute, imperforate, high-conic, flesh or salmon tinted, 

 rather thin, finely lirulate throughout, but the threads often almost 

 obsolete basally. Whorls 3;^, the nucleus large, globular and 

 projecting, glossy and rather translucent; following- whorls very 

 convex, separated by deep sutures. Aperture slightly oblique, 

 half-round, the outer lip simple and thin, uuexpanded, parietal 

 and columellar margin a little concave; the umbilical region covered 

 by a heavy white callus, triangular in shape, as seen from in 

 front. 



Alt. 2, diam. 1.7 mm. 



Operculum semicircular, whitish externally, bearing a long 

 curved process within. 



Kashima, Harima (Mr. Y. Hirase). 



I do not know that this genus has been reported from Japan 

 hitherto. The median field of the radula is nude, uucini ex- 

 tremely numerous, in very oblique rows. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENX'ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 385 



NEW SOUTH AMERICAN LAND SNAILS. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



For most of the specimens described, the Academy is indebted 

 to Dr. H. von Ihering, whose work in developing the zoology of 

 southern Brazil continues with unabated vigor. Others wei*e col- 

 lected by Mr. J. B. Steere, in Peru, and submitted to me by Mr. 

 H. E. Sargent.^ 



STREPTAXID-ffi. 

 Scolodonta interrupta (Suter). PI. XII, figs. 6, 7, 8. 



Size and general form much as in Zonitoides nitidiis. Umbilicus 

 showing all the whorls within, its width contained nearly 4 times in 

 the diameter of the shell. Surface glassy, subtranslucent white, 

 scarcely showing growth-lines, but with several former peristomes 

 at unequal distances, each indicated by a slightly sinuous distinct 

 groove, with a whitish streak behind it. Whorls 5, slowly in- 

 ci'easing, the last decidedly wider, rounded at the peripheiy and 

 beneath; sutures moderately impressed. Aperture round-lunate, 

 about one-third of the circle excised by the preceding whorl, 

 slightly oblique; peristome a little sinuous, a trifle thickened 

 within, unexpanded, the columellar margin a little dilated. 



Alt. 3.5, greater diam. 6.5, lesser 5.6 mm. 



Os Perns, Prov. Sao Paulo, Brazil (Dr. H. von Ihering). 



A small whitish species, Xo. 1,186 of von Ihering' s register. 

 Happia Iheringi, n. sp. PI. XII, figs, l, 2, 3. 



Shell umbilicated, depressed, discoidal, translucent, coueous. 

 Surface glossy, showing very slight, fine growth- wrinkles under 

 the lens, and occasional white lines indicating the positions of 

 former peristomes. Spire concave, very narrow, its width con- 

 tained 3^ times in that of the shell. "Whorls slightly exceeding 

 three, the last very wide, rounded at the periphery, convex 

 beneath, umbilicus narrow, rapidly contracting, its width contained 

 4:^ times in the diameter of the shell. Aperture broadly lunate, 



* Since this paper was in type, I have received an advance copy, without 

 plates, of a paper by Mr. H. Suter, published in Portuguese, anticipating 

 several of the species I had described as new. I have substituted Mr. 

 •Suter's Dames for my own. 



25 




386 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900, 



deeply excised by the preceding whorl, a little oblique; peristome 

 thin and simple. 



Alt. 2, greater diam. 5, lesser 4.3 mm. 



Os Perus, Prov. Sao Paulo, Bra2il (Dr. H. von Ihering). 



A small nautiloid species, Ko. 1,185 of Dr. von Ihering' s 

 catalogue. He notes {in liU. ) that it has a small jaAv, and a 

 radula of typically cai*nivorous type, with the formula 13. 1. 13. 

 The presence of a jaw suggests the pertinence of Hapjna to the 

 family Circinariidce, rather than to Streptaxidce ; but we are still 

 profoundly ignorant of the anatomy of the South American Strep- 

 taxes. 



Happia vitrina (Wagner). 



Cubatao, Alto do Serra, Sao Paulo (No. 1.184 of Dr. von 

 Ihering's register). It is Strejitaxis tumescens of Suter. 



Another Happia, No. 807 of von Ihering's register, is somewhat 

 like H. vitrina (Wagner), but with wider, less depressed spire, 

 wider umbilicus and rougher, wrinkled surface; diam. 15 mm., 

 habitat, Piquete, Sao Paulo. This is evidently undescribed, but 

 as the lip of the single specimen sent is broken, I defer its formal 

 characterization. It is No. 71,247 Coll. A. N. S. P. 



Guppya seminlini (Moricand). 



Os Perns, Sao Paulo (No. 1,183 of von Ihering's register). 



Dr. von Ihering remarks {in litt.) that he can see no reason 

 for referring sejnm/im to a different genus from /»?i'us; and while 

 it is customary to separate the tropical and South American species 

 of this form as a genus Guppya, it must be acknowledged that 

 there are absolutely no differential generic characters in the sheik 

 between the two species mentioned above. The typical forms of 

 Gupp)ya have a fleshy prominence or horn above the caudal gland, 

 which, so far as I know, is wanting in the North American and 

 Paliearctic Comdiis. 



However, the name Conulns is preoccupied by Rafinesque; and 

 although his Conulus is a synonym of Comis Linne', still the 

 name cannot be revived. It is also in use in Echinodermata. 

 Under these circumstances, it seems that Guj^jn/a will stand as the 

 generic name for the tropical and South American species. A 

 rapid survey of the South American species in the collection of 

 the Academy shows that they are more numerous than the litera- 




1900,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 387 



ture would indicate, and often various forms appear under one or 

 another of the older names. The true seminlini has an excessively 

 minute sculpture giving a silky lustre to the upper surface, while 

 the base is glossy, with extremely fine, close, superficial circular 

 striae. A specimen measures: alt. 3.7, diam. 4.6 mm, whorls 5^. 

 A smaller species or variety, alt. 2, diam. 2.6 mm., from 

 Os Perus (Xo. 1,182 of von Ihering's register), is allied to 

 seminlini Moric, 2y((''i'<^guayana Pfr., anguina Anc. and martinezi 

 Hid. The form is much as in seminlini ; whorls a trifle over 5, 

 the last angular, surface with a silky lustre above and a band of 

 the same just below the periphery, just as in " Conulus " chersinus 

 var. pobjgyratus Pils. The rest of the base is glossy, but under 

 sufiicient magnification shows spiral stride in places. This may be 

 called var. sicbseminlini. 



ENDODONTID^. 



Stephanoda pleurophora (Moricand). PI. XII, figs. 4, 5. 



This species, described from the Province of Bahia, has been 

 found by von Ihering at Sao Paulo. As the original description 

 and figures leave much to be desired, new figures are here given. 



There are 4^ whorls, the earlier one and one-half smooth, the 

 rest with raised, lamellar rib-strire, which are sinuous, and about 8 

 to a millimeter on the front of the last whorl, becoming more 

 crowded near the aperture. The width of the umbilicus is con- 

 tained nearly four times in the diameter of the shell. Alt. 2.3, 

 diam. 3 mm. ; width of umbilicus .5 mm. 



The jaw and radula have been examined by Dr. von Ihering. 

 The former is but little arcuate, composed of twenty well-united 

 narrow plates, being like that of CharojM, Endodonta, etc. The 

 radula has the formula 15. 1. 15, the central teeth tricuspid, with 

 the middle cusps much shorter than the basal plates; laterals also 

 tricuspid, the middle cusps longer than the .basal plates; mar- 

 ginals wide, multicuspid, the cusps being split into some five acute 

 denticles. 

 Stephanoda patagonica (Suter). PI. XII. figs. 9, 10, 11. 



Shell minute, depressed, subdiscoidal, umbilicated, the width of 

 the umbilicus contained nearly four times in the diameter of the 

 shell. Spire slightly convex ; whorls 3f , convex, separated by deep 

 sutures, the earliest Ih whorls smooth, the rest finely and densely 




388 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF • [1900. 



rib-striate, the strise rather low, straight, about 20 in the space of 

 a millimeter on the last whorl; last whorl rounded at periphery 

 and below. Aperture rounded-lunate, slightly oblique. 



Alt. 1.15, greater diam. nearly 2 mm.; width of umbilicus 

 .5 mm. 



Santa Cruz, Patagonia (No. 1,181 of Dr. von Ihering's reg- 

 ister). 



The specimens of this very minute species were obtained from 



dried mud. It is smaller than any other described form from the 



region. 



HELICID^. 

 Polygyratia Sargenti n. sp. 



Shell planorboid, flat above, having a deep, broadly funnel- 

 shaped or conical umbilicus below ; yellowish -corneous, subtranslu- 

 cent, glossy; finely striatulate, and showing some faint spiral lines, 

 visible only under a strong lens, above. Whorls 7^ to 8, the first 

 one wider than the next, very closely coiled and slowly widening, 

 the last whorl deviating and somewhat descending toward the 

 aperture, rounded peripherally and below, flattened and impressed 

 behind the upper lip. Umbilicus half the width of the shell, or 

 a little less. Aperture irregularly bilobed, quite oblique; peris- 

 tome shghtly expanded, more so below, a little thickened, the 

 upper margin straightened and bearing a conic median tubercle; 

 outer margin arched, basal margin nearly straight or only weakly 

 arcuate; the terminations widely separated. 



Alt. 11, diam. 3| mm. 



This species is alhed to P. Ortonl Crosse, from which it differs 

 in the smaller size, paler color, decidedly narrower and more 

 conical umbilicus, and greater height compared to the diameter. 

 It has one or two whorls less than specimens of P. Orioni before 

 me from Boya, Peru. The aperture resembles that of P. Ortoni. 



It is named in honor of Mr. H. E. Sargent. 

 Polygyratia aflBnis n. sp. 



Shell planorboid, flat above, and somewhat concave in the 

 middle, having a broadly conic umbilicus below, pale yellow, very 

 glossy, faintly striatulate whorls 8^, excessively closely convoluted, 

 the last whorl about four times as wide as the preceding, rounded 

 at the periphery, tangentially deviating and somewhat descending 

 near the aperture. Aperture quite oblique, deeply lunate, the 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 389 



peristome simple and unexpanded, the upper margin someAvhat 

 straightened, sloping, outer and basal margins arcuate. 



Alt. 4, diam. 11^ mm. ; width of umbilicus 5 mm. 



Peru. CoU. A. K S. P. No. 57,671. 



This species was in the collection of the Academy under the 

 name H. stenogyra Pfr. It is nearly allied to P. 2yolijeycla Morel. , 

 but is less depressed, the last whorl wider, and the umbilicus is 

 much narrower. In P. systrojjhia the last whorl, seen from above, 

 is much narrower. P. stenogyra is an allied but larger and 

 otherwise differing species. 

 Polygyratia stenostrepta var. declinata n. var. 



Similar to stenostrepta, but with the last whorl much more 

 deeply deflexed anteriorly, the suture terminating at the middle 

 or lower third of the height of the whorl; groove above the 

 upper lip strongly developed; basal lip well expanded. Whorl 9f. 



Alt. 4^, diam. 13 mm. 



Alt. 4, diam. 11^ mm. 



Peru. Types No". 78,140, Coll. A. N. S. P. 

 £piph.ragmophora oresigena var. bemardius v. Ihering, n. var. 



Shell similar to E. oresigena (Orb.), but smaller, and lighter 

 colored, yellow or greenish-yellow, with three blackish-brown 

 bands, two above the periphery, one wider band on the base. 

 Whorls 4|-, the last subangular at the periphery; surface lirate- 

 malleate, the wrinkles tangential to the last whorl of the suture. 

 Aperture white or purplish, and banded within, the lip white; 

 umbilicus partly or nearly covered. 



Alt. 17, diam. 30 mm. 



Alt. 16, diam. 28 mm. 



Serra da Bocaina, State of Sao Paulo, Brazil (Dr. H. v. 

 Ihering). 



The typical E. oresigena is a larger, heavier and darker shell 

 from the northeastern slope of the eastern cordillera and the pro- 

 vince of Yungas, Bolivia. It will probably prove to be a variety 

 of the still larger E. audoidnii Orb., from the same region. The 

 types of var. hernardius are No. 71,253 Coll. A. N. S. (No. 

 872 of Dr. von Ihering' s register). 

 Strophocheilus oblongus (Miiller). 



The geographic range of this species is greater than that of any 

 other Strojjhocheilus. In (he north there is one insular variety, 




390 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



alholahiaia E. A. Smith," of Tobago. In the south there are 

 several varieties, as follows: 



Var. erassus Albers. Parana region (Orbigny, Giilich). 



Var. alba Smith. As large as the type, but pure white, lip 

 rose-pink. Pampa Ruis, Bolivia (Orbigny). 



Var. sanckepauli v. Iher. and Pils. , n. v. 



Very slender and elongated, not compressed between face and 

 back, with narrow, produced spire. Substance of the shell red- 

 dish, with light subsutural baud ; cuticle persistent ; surface typi- 

 cally costulate, but later two whorls without microscopic granula- 

 tion. Aperture small, half the shell's length, pink within; 

 peristome brilliant rose colored. Whorls 6. Alt. 84, diam. 43 

 mm. ; alt. of aperture 43 mm. 



Botucatu, Sao Paulo, Brazil (von Ihering). 



This variety resembles S. santacruzii someAvhat. 



Dr. W. H. Rush found the tyjiical form of oblongus at Fray 

 Bentos, on the Uruguay river, and with it a small, solid race with 

 obtuse spire, and small, brilliant I'ose-lipped aperture. 

 Strophocheilus paranaguensis Pils. and v. Iher., n. sp. PI. XI, Hgs. 1, 2. 



Shell ovate, decidedly compressed dorso-ventrally, moderately 

 solid, the spire short, obtuse. Shell substance dull pink, with a 

 pale band below the sutures ; cuticle mainly retained on the later 

 two whorls, yellow below the sutures and back of the outer lip, 

 elsetvhere yelloivish-chestnut, with rather numerou.s, narrow, obliquely 

 longitudinal chestnut streaks. Surface moderately shining, irregu- 

 larly, strongly ivrinkle-costulate, as in S. oblongus ; showing under 

 the lens a microscopic granulation (similar to that of the spire of 

 S. oblongus), which is largely or entirely lost on the last half 

 whorl. Nepionic whorls finely costulate, as in S. oblongus. 

 Whorls 51, the earlier five regularly and moderately widening, 

 with slightly oblique sutures, the last half whorl (in a dorsal 

 view) rapidly descending, its suture extremely oblique. Aperture 

 somewhat oblique, whitish inside; peristome well expanded, bril- 

 liant rose-colored ; columella with a moderate fold. 



* The synonymy of this variety is as follows : 



Bonis oblongus var. albus Miill., "W. G. Binuey, Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sci., 

 iii, p. 115 (jaw and teeth; shell not described). 



Bulimus oblongus var. albolabiatus E. A. Smith, Proc. Malac. Soc. 

 Lond., i, p. 137 (1894). 



Strophocheilus oblongus var. tobagoensis Pilsbry, Man. of Couch 

 (2Ser.), X, p. 30, Tl. 14, f. 70 (1895). 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 391 



Alt. 92, cliam. maj. 55, min. 47 mm. ; length of aperture 62 mm. 



Paranagua, coast of Prov. Parana, Brazil. 



With the sculpture of S. ohlongus, this species unites the con- 

 tour of S. ovatus. It differs from ohlongus in the streaked cuticle, 

 dorso-ventral compression, short spire, and very oblique last 

 suture. It is more obese than S. fjranulosus Rang, with less 

 pronounced granulation, coarse surface costulation, and closer 

 apical riblets. 



Strophocheilus globosus (Martens). 



The locality of this species has hitherto been unknown. It 

 occurs subfossil at Montevideo, Uruguay, whence specimens have 

 been sent by Dr. von Thering. It will doubtless be found living 

 in the same region. The apical sculpture is that of the S. oh- 

 longus group. Some specimens are so globose as to suggest the 

 European Helix aspersa. 



BULIMULID^. 

 Bulimulus Steerei u. sp. 



Shell umbilicate and broadly rlmate, ovate-conic, with straight- 

 sided spire and convex last whorl, the hase angular around a large 

 umhilical excavation; solid and strong, opaque soiled white, with 

 indistinct brown stains in most specimens, and usually an indis- 

 tinct whiter girdle at the periphery, the apex white. Surface 

 lustreless, finely wrinkled longitudinally, and densely granose in 

 spiral series, as in B. proteiis or B. Montezuma ; the granules small 

 but strongly expressed. Apex obtuse, earlier l-t whorls strongly 

 vermiculate-wrinkled, the wrinkles anastomosing and largely 

 transformed into a netted pattern. Sutures not impressed, being 

 filled by the peripheral keel of the young shell. AYhorls 6^, the 

 first two convex, those following almost comp)letely flat, the last 

 whorl convex, without trace of a peripheral angle or carina, 

 usually ascending in front. Aperture subvertical, ovate, built 

 forward nearly to the level of the ventral convexity, brown tinted 

 within ; peristome broadly expanded, thickened within, brown or 

 white, acute at the edge. Columella oblique, making an angle with 

 the hasal margin; its edge dilated; parietal callus moderate or 

 slight, whitish. 



Alt. 38, diam. 21, longest axis of aperture 20i, greatest width 

 13* mm. 




392 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Alt. 35, diam. 20, longest axis of aperture 21, greatest width, 

 13^ mm. 



Alt, 36, diam. 19, longest axis of aperture 20, greatest width, 

 12^ mm. 



Peru, J. B. Steere expedition. Types in Coll. A. N. S., No. 

 78,144, and Coll. University of Michigan. 



The granose surface gives this species some resemblance to B. 

 Proteus, but it differs in the characters of the aperture and the flat 

 whorls of the spire. The young and half -grown shell is evidently 

 acutely carinate at the periphery. In this respect B. Steerei is like 

 B. Cora Orb. , and other forms referred to the genus Neopetrceus ; 

 but it has the apical sculpture of a true Seidalu^, wholly unlike 

 that of Neopetrceus. 



The deeply excavated tract behind the columellar lip leads to a 

 tubular umbilicus, which is evidently large and open in the imma- 

 ture shell, but is more or less constricted in most adults. 

 Bulimulus haematospira n. sp. 



Shell rimate, plllar-8haj)ed, the last If tvhorls of about equal 

 diameter and white, those above tajyering and deepening to a blood- 

 red color; thin, but moderately strong, opaque, nearly lustreless. 

 Apex obtuse, the earlier If whorls convex and sculptured with 

 delicate, spaced and straight longitudinal riblets; next whorl or two 

 nearly smooth, with merely some series of long granules; longitu- 

 dinal ribs gradually appearing; the ivhiie, cylindrical portion of the 

 shell being sculptured ivith strong, arcuate ribs, narrower than their 

 intervals, and several spiral series of long, narrow, crowded gran- 

 ules. Whorls 8^ to 9, the earlier convex, the later 3 or 4 some- 

 what flattened. Aperture small, oval, longer than wide, white 

 within ; peristome simple and uuexpauded. 



Length 16, diameter above the aperture 3, length of aperture 

 3 mm. 



Length 16.3, diameter above the aperture 3, length of aperture 

 3 mm. 



Length 15, diameter above the aperture 3.1, length of aperture 

 3 mm. 



Locahty unknown, probably Peru. Types in Coll. A. 2s. S., 

 No. 78,135, and in Coll. University of Michigan. 



This beautiful little Bu/!mu/us would be considered a Perivurw, 

 from its narrow form and calcareous texture, were it not for the 




1900.] XATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 393 



apical sculpture, which is like Kiesiotus, Protoglyptus and Orthoto- 

 viium. This shows it to be not a Peronceus, but a stock of differ- 

 ent ancestry, parallel to that group, such as I have shown to exist 

 in various Bulimulid groups. 



Odontostomus kuhnholtzianus (Crosse). PI. XII, fig. 12. 



Ad enlarged view of the aperture is given to show the arrange- 

 ment of teeth. The specimen figured is from Montevideo, col- 

 lected by J. Arechaveleta, Director of the National Museum of 

 Montevideo (No. 1,015 of Dr. von Iheriug's register, 78,037 

 Coll. A. N. S. P.). 



HELIOINID^. 

 Helicina iguapensis n. sp, 



Shell depressed, the diameter about twice the altitude, lens- 

 shaped, acutely keeled ; very pale yellow, the apex and basal callus 

 w^hite. Surface lightly striate, irregulai'ly grooved and finely 

 striate spirally, this sculpture weaker on the last whorl, finer 

 beneath. Spire low conic; whorls 5, the first smooth, the last 

 slighty convex, becoming concave above the acute peripheral keel. 

 Base evenly convex. Aperture oblique, subtriangular, white 

 within; peristome rather broadly reflexed, white, angular at the 

 terminatioTi of the peripheral keel; the upper margin nearly 

 straight, basal margin moderately arcuate; columella very short, 

 vertical, produced below in a j^rojeding angle. Callus thin, white. 



Alt. 8.5, diam. 16 mm. 



Operculum scarlet outside, fading to whitish at the nucleus, 

 lightly striate, irregularly triangular, the nucleus marginal, nuclear 

 edge straight, with reflexed scarlet margin. 



Iguape, S. Paulo, Brazil. Type from Dr. H. von Ihering, 

 No. 78,028, Coll. A. N. S. P. (940 v. Ihering's register). 



This species resembles H. carinata Orb,, angulata Sowb., and 

 gonochila Pfr. in the salient angle or tooth in which the columella 

 terminates below ; but it is a far larger and more depressed shell. 

 In general form it is almost exactly like JET. caracolla Moric, 

 which differs in completely lacking any trace of an angle at the 

 base of the columella. 



The sculpture above seems to consist of rather low, flat lira?, 

 over which much finer spiral strise run. This is best developed on 

 the next to the last whorl. 




394 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Helicina inaequistriata n- sp. 



Shell thin, subglobose-depressed, rather bluntly carinated; vary- 

 ing from a dull reddish color to pale sulphur yellow. Surface 

 dull, sculptured with fine growth lines and numerous unequal, low 

 and flattened spiral line, with a sculpture of fine spiral strife over 

 them, giving the appearance of groups or fascicles of more promi- 

 nent, alternating with bands of less prominent spiral striae. Spire 

 low conic; Avhorls -ih slightly convex, the last decidedly angular 

 at the periphery, convex, not descending anteriorly. Aperture 

 subtriangular, the outer angle rounded; peristome white, narrowly 

 subreflexed, its face thickened in old specimens ; upper margin 

 but slightly arcuate, basal margin strongly arched, forming a 

 right angle with the straight and vertical columella, the base of 

 which is outwardly angular. Basal callus rather small, whitish. 



Alt. 7, diam. 9i mm. 



Raiz da Serra, Sao Panlo. Brazil. Types from Dr. H. von 

 Ihering, No. 78,038 Coll. A. N. S. (938 von Ihering's register). 



Appendix: Description of a New^ Stkophocheilus, by 

 Dr. H. von Ihering. 



Strophocheilus Pilsbryi n. sp. PL XI, fig. 4. 



Shell perforate, oblong, moderately solid, chestnut brown, with 

 a blackish line followed by an ill-defined yellow band below the 

 suture; irregularly plicatulate and beautifully granose micro- 

 scopically throughout, the granulation barely \'isible to the naked 

 eye, and arranged in regular spiral series; spire thick, obtuse. 

 \Yhorls 5, the first one planorboid, the next tumid above; last 

 whorl oval, convex, its later half more descending, shortly ascend- 

 ing at the aperture. Aperture ovate, bluish within; peristome 

 reflexed, red; columella oblique and straight above, concave 

 below, its margin dilated above, almost closing the narrow per- 

 foration. 



Length 48, diam. 24 mm. ; aperture 25 mm. long. 



Piquete (SeiTa da Mautigueira), Sao Paulo, Brazil. 



This species seems to be allied to S. rhodocheibi^ (Reeve), but 

 has not the color-pattern or columellar fold of that species, the 

 aperture is smaller, and the surface irregularly plicatulate as well 

 as granulous. 




1900.] XAIUKaL SCIEXCES of PHILADELPHIA. 395 



PRELIMINARY NOTES ON THE RATE OF GROWTH AND ON THE 

 DEVELOPMENT OF INSTINCTS IN SPIDERS. 



BY AXNIE BELL SARGENT. 



The foUowiug work^ "was taken up in the fall of 1898 for the 

 purpose of determining how young spiders develop through the 

 ■winter, what instincts or intelligence they may possess and when 

 these appear. 



In October I collected, on a vacant lot in Philadelphia, several 

 hundred cocoons, in all probability Argiope cophinaria, as that 

 was the adult spider most commonly found among the cocoons. 

 Dr. McCook in his American Spidern and Their Spinning Work 

 (7) has described the structure of these cocoons so exactly that I 

 need not go into it here. 



Although the spider probably has not an intelligence comparable 

 to that found in higher animals, that it does possess complex in- 

 stincts is evident in the making of the cocoon. Four kinds of silk, 

 of as many colors, are found in each completed nest; the whole is 

 shaded over with a fifth, which renders it less conspicuous, and it 

 is moored to its place by a sixth, (see McCook, (7), Vol. II). 

 Each kind of silk has its respective place, which never varied in all 

 the cocoons I examined, although in some a layer was omitted. 

 However these differences are produced, an instinct that guides its 

 possessor through such intricacies is of a high order. 



All the occupants of a single cocoon were in the same stage of 

 development, and until Xovember cocoons containing all stages, 

 from the egg to the just-hatched embryo, were found. After No- 

 vember the eggs that had not hatched dried up. 



Growth. 



Before the time of Balbiani's work (1) in 1873, the develop- 

 ment of Aranere had been studied cliiefly with regard to the exter- 



^ Accepted as a thesis for the degree of Bachelor of Science in Biology, 



University of Pennsylvania. June, 1899. 




396 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



ual features by such writers as Herold (4), 1824; Rathke (10), 

 1842; Von Wittich (11), 1845; and Claparede (3), 1862. Bal- 

 biani (1) has given a detailed description of the early development, 

 but does not describe completion of the abdominal organs. In 1880 

 Balfour (2) gave notes on the development from completion of 

 segmentation to completion of thoracic organs, but gave nothing 

 with regard to the eventual fate of yolk and the formation of intes- 

 tine. In 1886 Locy (6) gave a very complete account of the de- 

 velopment of Agalena from laying of the eggs to hatching of the 

 embryo. He showed that the intestinal tract is still incomplete at 

 time of hatching, and my observations tend to confirm this. 

 Kishinouye {J>), in 1891, made obser\'ation3 on lAjcosa o-ndi. Agalena 

 from laying of the egg to hatching. He has not followed out the 

 completion of the intestine. 



In the works of the last two writers, it is difficult to determine 

 whether by the term ' ' hatching ' ' they mean leaving the egg mem- 

 brane or leaving the cocoon. Locy speaks of one moult before 

 hatching in Agalena and Kishinouye says there are two or three 

 moults before hatching in Agalena and Lycosa. In Argiope there 

 was no indication of a moult before the leaving of the egg membrane, 

 but there were two or three moults before the leaving of the 

 cocoon. In this paper hereafter by " hatching " is meant the 

 leaving of the egg membrane. ^ly observations agree with those 

 of the above writers in showing that the spider leaves the egg in a 

 very embryonic condition, and that the intestine is not complete 

 until just before or just after leaving the cocoon. 



For the pui-pose of determining how the young spiders develop, 

 I killed a number for sectioning from time to time through the 

 Avinter. Picro-sulphuric acid gave the best results as a fixing 

 fluid. Second to this was picro-acetic acid. Both require from 

 twelve to twenty-four hours to kill, because the many little hairs 

 on the body enclose a jacket of air which buoys the spider up and 

 keeps the fluid from reaching the skin. It is very difficult to make 

 stains penetrate the tissues and I found the following a very good 

 method. Having removed the legs, or, in the case of very young 

 spiders, pierced the abdomen with a fine needle, stain in toto in 

 picro-hsematoxylin for twenty-four hours. It may be necessary 

 to hai'deu in alcohol and again stain in picro-luvmatoxyliu. Take 

 up to seventy psr cent, alcohol and stain for twelve hours in alco- 




1900.] NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 397 



holic eosin. The picro-lia?matoxyliu will penetrate the abdomen 

 slightly if at all ; but the eosin stains it faii'ly well. The best 

 results were obtained by embedding in celloidin and paraflBn and 

 fixing on the slide with hot water. 



Argiope cophinaria. 



As early as November the cephalo-thorax is complete ; the 

 stomach and oesophagus, the nerve mass surrounding them, the 

 blood vessels around the nerve mass, muscles, poison glands, pig- 

 ment and eyes are fully developed and throughout the winter I 

 observed no change in this part of the body. The abdomen is the- 

 reservoir for the great quantity of yolk which remains even after so 

 much of the body is completed. The intestine and "hver" have 

 not made their appearance in November, although all the other ab- 

 dominal organs have. This entire space is filled with solid yolk 

 masses divided by three main blood sinuses which run down from the 

 heart. The heart is much compressed at this time, and has few 

 corpuscles in it (PI. IX, figs. 2, 3 and 4). In January the yolk 

 masses begin to break up and are sHghtly absorbed. In February 

 the intestine shows distinctly in section and the " liver " can be 

 distinguished among the yolk masses. There is a decided change in 

 the shape of the abdomen — from rounded to elongated, flattened 

 dorso-ventrally. In March (PI. IX, fig. 1) the alimentary canal is 

 almost complete from mouth to anus. The mouth is lined on both 

 upper and lower lip with chitinous ridges, which interlock to form 

 a strainer. A large quantity of yolk still surrounds the intestine 

 and is scattered among the abdominal organs. As the yolk masses 

 diminish, movements are noticed. At fiirst there is a mere waving 

 of legs, then rolling and scrambling over each other, and finally 

 a definite, though awkward, climbing along the threads of the 

 cocoon. Increase in size is slight, and takes place very slowly 

 after the spider leaves the egg-m*embrane. Then follows a period 

 of slow-development, which lasts through the cold months and 

 consists in absorption of yolk, increase in pigment and change in 

 shape to that of the adult spider. 



Agalena naevia- 



In addition to the Argiopes there came into my possession the 

 cocoon of Agalena ncevia Hentz. These eggs were laid on October 

 10, 1898, and hatched November 15. Within two weeks after 

 hatching these spiders were perfectly black, running about the box 




398 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



in Avliich the cocoon lay and making an irregular web all through 

 it. Their activity was in striking contrast to that of Argiope. In 

 the matter of spinning webs and climbing on them they were 

 skilled acrobats, and behaved as if this had been their habit for 

 months. At this time they did not eat and showed no fear of each 

 other, although they became wildly excited and ran in every 

 direction when the box was disturbed or anything was dropped 

 into the web. 



In a few days they began to eat and increased notabl}- in size. 

 From time to time I made camera drawings as the increase war- 

 ranted (PI. X, figs. 5-14). 



When the spider is full-fed and about to moult, the skin is very 

 tight and shiny; the abdomen seems out of proportion to the 

 cephalo- thorax. After the moult, the actual increase in size seems 

 slight. The expanse of the legs is greater, there is an increase in 

 length and in width of the cephalo-thorax, but the abdomen is 

 shrunken. As soon as the spider begins to eat again, it increases 

 rapidly in size until the limit is reached, when a moult again 

 occurs. It is possible that this increase is due to filling out of folds 

 in the skin. 



Development of Instinct. 



There has been some discussion as to whether the spiders have, 

 in any degree, intelligence. There have been many scattered 

 anecdotes and marvelous tales, such as those related in The 

 Naturalist in La Plata, that would ci'edit the spider with intelli- 

 gence; but careful scientific investigation tends to refute all such 

 ideas and places the spiders among animals hanng complex in- 

 stincts. The most valuable work that has been done along this 

 line ia that of George and Elizabeth Peckham (9) and Dr. 

 McCook (7). 



It is certain that young spiders gain nothing by imitation, for 

 many of the most highly developed species lay their eggs in the 

 fall and give them no further attention. In the spring, when the 

 young leave the cocoon, and when they would be most benetiteil 

 by the example of others, they separate and each, with its own 

 inheritance of instincts and tendencies, starts out to do battle for 

 itself. And yet here as elsewhere in the animal kingdom, one is 

 impressed with individual differences, as will be shown later. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 399 



Among the hunting spiders (^Lycosidce), too, there is no chance for 

 imitation. At the time when the young leave their mother's back 

 they separate, as in the case of the "vreavers. This does not imply 

 that the spider leaves the cocoon, or its mother's back, as skilled 

 and as agile as she is. It must learn and practice to perfect itself. 

 As early as February, and long before it leaves the cocoon, 

 young Argiope can spin a little drop line, but the line is short; it 

 requires considerable stimulus, as shaking, to cause it to spin ; the 

 spinner in many cases seems unable to climb back, and when it 

 does climb back it is with exceedingly clumsy efforts. The young 

 hunting spider at an early age obeys its instinct to catch a moving 

 gnat, but its first attempts are rarely successful, and for some 

 time it is very awkward. 



Observations on Argiope Cophinaria, October to April. 



All during October, spiders were hatching, and at this time gave 

 no indication of any sense except that of touch. 



In November they had moulted once or twice, and were slightly 

 more active when disturbed. 



In December they were decidedly more active, but seemed not 

 to notice light or heat. 



In January development was very slow and no changes were 

 observed. 



In February most of the little spiders could be made to spin a 

 little drop line by violently shaking the Qgg l^all. They made 

 awkward attempts to walk, and did not use their hind legs in guid- 

 ing them along the threads of their cocoon. Ofi' the cocoon silk 

 they were perfectly helpless, soon became tired and lay with legs 

 drawn up. 



To try the eifect of severe winter weather on young spiders out- 

 side of the cocoon, I placed a number of specimens in a little 

 pasteboard box and left them in an open window of an unheated 

 room. Some individuals were in the silk of the cocoon, others 

 were not. The following observations were made. Unfortu- 

 nately, the exact amount of cold to which these spiders were sub- 

 jected was not determined. In the absence of such data the offi- 

 cial records of the Weather Bureau of the minimum temperatures 

 for the nights in question are given: 



Fehruiry 9. — Removed spiders from cocoon as described above 




400 PROCEEUINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



and exposed all uight. Weather Bureau record, — 1° F. (= — 



18.3°C.). 



February 10. — Still living and active ^vhen touched. Exposed 

 again all night. Weather Bureau record, — 6° F. {^= — 21° C. ). 



February 11. — Less active. Exposed all night. Weather 

 Bureau record, — 6° F. (= — 21° C). 



February 12. — No change. Exposed all night. Weather 

 Bureau record, 4° F. {= — 15.5° C). 



February 13-16. — No change. Exposed each night. Weather 

 Bureau record, 7°, 9°, 11°, 21° F. (= — 13.8°, — 12.7°, — 

 11.6°,— 6° C). 



February 17. — Seemed more active. No definite movement 

 toward any point or return to the ball on the part of those not in 

 the silk (36°F. = 2° C). 



February 18. — Several of those lying on bottom of the box and 

 outside of the meshes of the silk dead; others not so active (32° 

 F. = 0° C). 



February 23. — All spiders lying on bottom of the box and not in 

 the meshes of the silk, dead, except three beneath the silk of the 

 cocoon; these three very sluggish (37° F. =z '•2.''i° C. ). 



February 2^.-27. — Less active each day; nearly all the spiders 

 in the box died, including those beneath the silk. The lowest 

 temperature was 26° F. {= — 3.3° C), on the 25th. 



March 1. — Four living in the silk of the cocoon. 



March 6. — All dead. 



From observations made since, it is probable that these spiders 

 died, rather from their scattered condition, than from the cold. 



As opening cocoons seemed to have no etlect upon the occupants, 

 to determine how they would behave if deprived of the cocoon 

 entirely, I made these observations : 



February 9. — A brood of spiders clinging to the cocoon silk was 

 removed from the cocoon and spread out in a glass globe. They 

 showed plainly that they were disturbed. Some moved along the 

 threads of the silk, although for the most part they simply waved 

 their legs and rolled over each other, trying to form into little balls 

 wherever a few were together. No attempt was made to return to 

 the cocoon, although it hung still* attached to the silk. Aphids 

 were ottered as food, but the spiders did not seem to see these ; 

 also water, but no attention was paid to it. 




1900.] XATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 401 



February 10. — A decided grouping into balls was noticed at 

 points where most of the spiders happened to be as the silk was 

 drawn out. ]Moved awkwardly, or waved their legs, when 

 brought near heat. No attempt to spin. Turned the globe so 

 that light fell on it differently, but this produced no effect. 



February 11. — No difTerence in position of balls; balls some- 

 what larger; fewer spiders moving along the web; all resting with 

 ventral side uppermost, but moving with dorsal side uppermost, 



February 17. — I placed the globe so that rays from a lamp fell 

 on some of the spiders, while others were in shadow ; after thirty 

 minutes there was activity among those exposed to light — a general 

 tumbling and rolling over each other, but no definite movement 

 toward the light or away from it. Activity evidently caused by 

 the light, as those spiders in the shadow remained quiet, with ven- 

 tral side up as before. 



March 12. — Drew silk away fi'om one of the groups, scattering 

 some of the spiders; all moved actively, apparently trying to get 

 into centre of the mass; in a few hours all the stragglers had gone 

 back to the group ; acted as if stiff from cold, although tempera- 

 ture was not low. 



March lS-81. — Xo change in groups; most of the isolated 

 spiders died. 



April 1. — Still no attempt to weave webs. 



Ajyril 2. — More active, and moved along web with less waving 

 of legs, using hind legs as guides; soon formed into groups when 

 scattered. 



April 26. — Those spiders on outside of groups shriveled up. 



At this time I took some of the spiders out on a sheet of paper 

 and noticed that they moved away from anything touching them, 

 but were not aware of an approaching object until actually 

 touched. 



On March 10 I opened twenty-six cocoons that had been kept in 

 a locker all winter. In these all were dead except six from differ- 

 ent cocoons. These six were further developed than those taken 

 from cocoons earlier in the year, were more active and moved as if 

 accustomed to using their legs. As they seemed able to take care 

 of themselves, I put them into a glass box, where they had ample 

 opportunity to weave, and made these observations. I put into 

 the box the tops of two cocoons, which they soon moored to the 

 26 




402 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900- 



bottom, not as the result of a definite purpose, but of mere wander- 

 ing before settling down. Two finally crawled into a bit of the 

 silk still clinging to one of the tops, 



March 11. — Moved at the least jarring; all hung, ventral side 

 up, on individual threads from lid of box. 



March 22. — Two dead, in same position as when alive. 



March 23. — Four survivors not so active. 



April 9. — Not so active. 



April 10. — Third one dead. 



April 11. — Three remaining dropped to bottom of box as soon 

 as disturbed, lay motionless an instant, then ran actively about, 

 finally returning to original position — suspended from lid. 



April 18. — Offered water, which they drank eagerly; bodies 

 seemed to swell. Still no attempt at regular web. 



These observations indicate that during the winter months the 

 young Argiopes change very little in any way. In most of the 

 cocoons the spiders were all alive and active until March, when very 

 few cocoons had any living occupants. This must have been due 

 to the heat of the house, as the spiders were all shriveled in ap- 

 pearance. On March 14 I gathered twelve cocoons in a vacant 

 lot, and found that in all of them there were hundreds of living 

 spiders, all at the same stage of development as the ones living in 

 the houi^e all winter. 



The question arises here, what may be the use of the cocoon ? 

 It can scarcely be for retaining animal heat, as the amount of heat 

 generated by the young spiders must be extremely little; their 

 abdomens are packed with yolk and there is very little muscular 

 activity among them. If taken out of the cocoon they form into 

 close balls, and those which are able to keep in the centres of these 

 balls live just as well as those in the cocoons, while those on the 

 outside dry up. If kept in stoppered bottles they all live as well 

 as in the cocoon. The chief use of the cocoons ?eems to be to keep 

 the spiders together and to prevent evaporation of moisture. I 

 took a number of spiders from cocoons that had been indoors all 

 winter and from others that had been out of doors all winter, gave 

 them some cotton to burrow into, wrapped them in separate pieces 

 of very thin cloth and hung them outside where they would be 

 exposed to March snow and wind and April rain ; yet those that 

 had been indoors all winter lived and kept pace with those in the 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 403 



cocooDs until April 18. Those that had been out of doors all 

 died except one. From April 18 to April 26 the weather was 

 very dry and it became very warm where the spiders were hanging. 

 In that time they all dried up except the one from the cocoon that 

 had been out of doors all winter. This survivor was very active 

 and seemed ready to leave, the nest. Spiders in cocuons hanging 

 in the same place were all active and healthy, although every 

 cocoon had been opened. This shows that they can endure cold, 

 Avind and rain, for the snow packed in all over the little bags of cot- 

 ton and cloth, melted and dried in the sun. Absorbent cotton was 

 used, and it must have been saturated many times. The cocoon 

 holds the little spiders together for the purpose, as I tliink, of 

 keeping them moist, and prevents evaporation of that moisture. 

 The silk furnishes a suitable support, as is shown by the fact that 

 they soon grow weary in attempting to walk on a surface, and that 

 without a place of attachment, moulting becomes a great difficulty. 

 The cocoon also prevents their being scattered into unfavorable 

 places by dashing rains and high winds. The view that the 

 cocoon prevents evaporation is borne out by the later life of the 

 spider ; for as soon as it leaves the nest and begins an independent 

 existence, abundance of water is absolutely necessary. A spider 

 will live indefinitely without food, but without water it will survive 

 only a few days. The cocoon, of course, protects the young 

 spiders against numerous enemies — birds, wasps, toads, etc., some 

 of which, however, often pierce the cocoon. The great majority 

 of the cocoons of Argiope which I examined had been bored 

 into, and in some the eggs were ravaged; but I failed to find any 

 traces of parasites (see McCook, 7). In other species I have 

 found ichneumons and I wondered at their absence here. 



At first I thought the young spiders always kept the ventral side 

 uppermost, but later found that they always keep the ventral side 

 outwards. Why they maintain this position is an unanswered 

 question. Removing a nest from the cocoon I placed it in a 

 black bag and hung it in a recess where no light could enter. 

 On taking the nest out, at intervals for weeks, I saw that all the 

 spiders had the ventral side turned out, even those on the bottom. 

 It is evident that light has nothing to do with this phenomenon. 

 It is possible that respiration is facilitated by this position. 



I have not been able to make any valuable tests as regards the 




40 i PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



development of the senses in Argiope, since the spiders are never 

 hungry nor thirsty, and the first of these conditions is very im- 

 portant in determining range of sight. Fear has been shown only 

 in the case of the three spiders taken from the cocoon on March 10, 

 when they dropped on being disturbed. The other spiders would 

 not move away from an approaching object, and would even sit 

 still and be eaten up by older spiders of other species. Tests for 

 hearing and the sense of smell would also be useless because of 

 this lack of motive. 



Argiope, then, in April, is about ready to leave the cocoon, can 

 drop itself from danger on a little line and drink water. It makes 

 no attempt to weave a snare, to eat its fellows or anything else, 

 has little more than a rudiment of fear, and if it sees, the stimu- 

 lus arouses no response. 



Observatioxs OX Agalexa n.evia. 



As the specimens of Agalena nKv'vi grew too active and inde- 

 pendent to be kept in an ordinary box, I placed them in an olive 

 bottle, where all their movements could be easily watched. 

 About December 15, when put into the bottle, they showed unmis- 

 takable signs of fear and acted as if they were in a strange place, 

 running excitedly here and there. I gave them a little corner of 

 an envelope for a refuge and point to collect on. After an hour 

 they were quieter and set about weaving an irregular web from 

 side to side of the bottle. This web became denser from day to 

 day, and showed little tunnels running through it. The tunnel is 

 very characteristic of the adult of this species. Xo attention 

 whatever was paid to the refuge. They could see at least an inch, 

 and recognized each other as cannibals. I draw this conclusion 

 because I observed that they chargeil upon each other when they 

 came within tliat distance. I could not measure the^e distances 

 accurately, but preferred to make the distance less, rather than 

 greater than it actually wa', and I am sure it was no less. That 

 they feared each other was evident from the way the pursued ran 

 from the pursuer. 



They ate aphids or one another indifferently, increasing notablv 

 in size from day to day, or shriveling up and dying. Untd 

 February 18 1 allowed them to live together, the larger ones eating 

 the smaller and less active, and mauv dviuix. At this time seven 




1900.] NATURAL SCIE>'CE3 OF PHILADELPHIA. 405 



only survived. I put each one into a separate bottle, 6.3 cm. 

 high and 1.6 cm. wide. The bottles were lettered a, b, c, d, e, 

 f, g. From day to day each spider was observed and notes 

 recorded. They grew much more rapidly than Arglope and formed 

 an interesting study of specific and indi%'idual differences, as well 

 as of developing instinct. That these spiders also are able to 

 endure cold is proved by the fact that on Februaiy 9 they were 

 exposed to the same temperature as the Argiope spiders. The 

 moisture in the bottle froze all over the inside, but the spiders, 

 beyond being stiff, until they were taken into a warm room, were 

 not at all affected. The following are the records that were 

 made. The spiders were kept under conditions as normal as possi- 

 ble, under the circumstances, and their behavior under these con- 

 ditions carefully noted. 



Spider a. — This spider busied itself for three days spinning a 

 web back and forth across the bottle. 



Febniarij 21. — Afraid of a little fly offered as food. After a 

 few minutes it made an attempt to catch the fly. After five or 

 six attempts, it caught the fly by its hind legs; fly escaped and was 

 recaptured a number of times; spider spread its spinnarets and 

 made a motion as if to enshroud its prey and tried to push under 

 the fly's wings to seize it by the abdomen. 



February 22. — Decided increase in size of spider; skin tight 

 and shiny ; color lighter than that of the other spiders. 



February 24.. — Introduced a little globule of water; no atten- 

 tion paid to it; finally I guided it uutil two feet dipped into the 

 water, but it would not drink; refused to eat. 



February 28. — Placed the spider in a shallow box for drawing; 

 very much frightened and climbed out five or six times, then 

 began to weave a web, but, although it climbed to the edge many 

 times, it merely fastened the web and returned to the box. It 

 frequently rested and cleaned itself, as does an adult spider. 



March 3—5. — Drank water eagerly, but refused to eat. 



March 6. — Moulted. 



March 7. — Seized small fly, when offered it, at once. 



March 12. — Enci'ease in size evident. 



March 19. — Dead. 



Spider b. — February 18. — This spider was seen circling around 

 a black, winged aphis, occasionally approaching it from the rear. 




406 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



as if to seize it. Beside the aphis and moved by every struggle, 

 lay an old white spider skin. This the spider finally took hold of 

 and tried to drag away. After fifteen minutes, it left the skin and 

 for fifteen minute? more seemed undecided, then seized the aphis 

 near the head and proceeded to eat it. This was the largest of the 

 spiders and the one that I had noticed most frequently devouring 

 aphides, as well as its own kin, in the olive bottle. 



February 20. — Greatly increased in size. 



February 21. — Leaped at once upon thorax of a little fly and 

 proceeded to eat it. 



February 22. — Notable increase in size; skin of abdomen shiny, 

 tight. 



February 23. — Web veiy evident half-way up the bottle, woven 

 irregularly from side to side. 



February 2Jf.. — Dropped a small fly into the web; spider greatly 

 excited at once, but seemed unable to locate fly ; ran to dead fly 

 in the web, then to one above, and back to lower one. Settled 

 down finally as if discouraged and made no further efforts even 

 when fly came immediately beneath its feet. 



February 28. — Removed to shallow dish for purpose of making 

 a camera drawing; behaved much as a did under similar circum- 

 stances, but quieted down much sooner (PI. X, fig. 10). 



March 1-2. — Refused to eat. 



March 3. — Moulted. 



March 7. — Deftly seized a mosquito by the thorax. 



March 10-11. — Body large and shiny. 



March i^.— Unusually excitable (PI. X, fig. 11). 



March 17. — Dropped down on a line on being disturbed; never 

 did so before. 



March IS. — Offered two little Arr/iopes — evidently a new kind 

 of prey; spider much excited; approached, circled around, draw- 

 ing out web all about and over little Argiope ; an evident but 

 feeble attempt to enshroud the prey ; did not guide the thread at 

 all with the hind legs and wasted much silk by not touching prey; 

 went away from the little spider and after a few minutes went to 

 other one, which it seemed not to see before, and, without any en- 

 circling movements, ate it. 



March 20-22. — Skin very tight and shiny; refused to oat. 



March 23. — Had moulted in the uia-ht : refused to eat. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 407 



March 27. — Caught a mosquito and again made motions as if to 

 enshroud it (PI. X, fig. 12). 



Ajii-il 4. — I turned the bottle on its side; in time the spider 

 came out of the bottle, walking away about two inches in an ex- 

 cited, jerky manner; touched it with a pencil and it instantly 

 rushed into the bottle ; did not come out again. 



April 5. — Would not come out of the bottle of its own accord. 



April 6. — Increase in size noticeable. 



April 7. — Pattern on ventral side of abdomen very distinct. 



April 10. — Ate a small fly, but refused an ant. 



Ajrril 11. — Refused to eat. 



Ap)ril 12. — Moulted. 



April IS. — Decided diffei*ence in pattern and general shape; 

 now a long, slender spider, much more excitable; turned and ran 

 quickly to bottom of bottle on least disturbance. 



April IJf.. — Attacked an ordinary house-fly and seized it hy the 

 abdomen (PL X, figs. 13 and 14). 



April 16-17 . — Rapid increase in size. 



April IS. — Returned to dead fly of April 14. 



April 19. — Fixed itself at once on thorax of house-fly; made 

 movements as if to enshroud it. 



Spider c. — February 21. — Made attempts to catch a fly entirely 

 too large for it. 



February 23. — Very sluggish. 



February 2If. — Three anterior legs of left side seemed crippled 

 and a white exudation appeared at their bases. 



February 27. — Dead. 



Spider d. — This was one of the most active and excitable of 

 the spiders from the start. 



February 21. — Offered a little fly twice as large as itself; sprang 

 at it and seized one hind leg; fly struggled violently and finally 

 escaped; spider seized it again by abdomen and held on until fly 

 was exhausted and gradually shifted its own position until it had 

 its chelicerse fastened into the back of the fly' s thorax ; made weav- 

 ing movements with the spinnarets. 



February 22. — Xoticeable increase in size. 



February 2Jf.. — Introduced little globule of water; spider was 

 moving about and finally wandered into water, which it drank with 

 evident satisfaction; made some cleaning movements afterwards. 




408 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



February 28. — Very active; wonld not stay in shallow dish as 

 others had done, although put back many times (PL X, fig. 5). 



March Jf.-5. — Moulted some time in the night; refused to eat. 



March 7. — Offered larger fly; spider attacked at once and seized 

 one hind leg; clung for several minutes; after fly was worn out, 

 the spider ran about it, excitedly spinning a web in a circle around 

 it, but not touching it; after some time, proceeded to eat it. 



March 10. — Body large and shiny (PL X, fig. 6). 



March 18. — Offered a little Argiope ; recognized a new kind of 

 prey; circled around and around, secreting silk, but very little of 

 the web touched the Argiope. 



March 20-22. — Skin very tight and shiny; refused to eat. 



March 23. — Had moulted in the night; refused to eat (PL X, 

 fig. 7). ^ 



April 11. — More excitable; went through usual winding move- 

 ments before eating (PL X, fig. 8). 



April IJf.. — Had become expert at catching prey. 



April 15. — Body veiy large; skin tight and shiny (PL X, fig. 9). 



April 18. —Moulted. 



April 19. — Looked exactly like b; more excitable than ever; 

 still made movements with spinnarets on catching prey. 



Spider e. — This was an active little creature, although one leg 

 was missing on the right side. 



February 21. — Made a number of attempts to catch a fly; finally 

 seized it by a hind leg; settled down on fly's thorax; after twenty 

 minutes began to Aveave a web with fly as a centre; moving the 

 bottle did not disturb the worker ; after eating there was a distinct, 

 but awkward, attempt to clean itself. 



February 27. — Noticeable increase in size. 



February 28. — When removed to shallow dish, made efforts to 

 escape, but after five or six trials began to weave a web contentedly. 



March 2. — Dead; posterior abdomen white. 



Spider f. — This was the smallest and weakest spider. 



February 21. — Two hind legs on right side crippled ; made un- 

 successful attempt to catch a fly. 



February 22. — Dead. 



Spider G. — February 21. — Became excited when offered a fly, 

 but began to weave a web and paid no further heed, even when fly 

 walked over it. 



J 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 409 



February 22. — Made several attempts to catch a fly; finally 

 succeeded. 



February 23. — Dead. 



In reading over these records of Agalena ncevia, one is at first 

 impressed with the small number of survivors, but we must re- 

 member that they were not under perfectly normal conditions. 

 Had they been out in the fields, they would not have had so good 

 an opportunity to kill each other, but their enemies would have 

 had a better chance to prey upon them. In the bottles they were 

 protected from storms, but were more liable to disease. Whether 

 these factors counterbalance each other remains a question. These 

 records also indicate that the spider's early life is greatly influ- 

 enced by the quantity of food and by individual as well as specific 

 difierences. Some of the spiders are distinguished from the outset 

 by size, strength or quickness, and these are thus able to provide 

 themselves with more food and grow accordingly. When the 

 spiders were well fed the moults occurred closer together, although 

 they will moult or make the attempt to do so, after a long time 

 when food is scarce. 



At first these spiders were all fed on aphides which they relished, 

 but as they grew larger and were oflTered other things, the aphides 

 were refused. Flies were eagerly caught, but ants were never 

 touched. This would indicate that they have some kind of dis- 

 crimination. 



Another very interesting phenomenon has been the attempt to 

 enshroud prey. From watching these movements many times, I 

 am sure it is an instinctive impulse they attempt to obey, and 

 which is utterly useless because imperfectly performed. Adult 

 spiders that have this habit hold the victim fi.rmly in their jaws 

 and twirling it around, wind it in a web drawn from the abdomen 

 by the hind legs. Agalena does not have this habit when adult, 

 but drags its prey into a tunnel. The youjig were frequently seen 

 attempting to drag the struggling flies, although they had made no 

 regular tunnels in their webs. The attempt to enshroud must be 

 the result of an instinctive return to a habit that is lost. 



Summary. 

 1. Growth is gradual through regular, successive stages, which 

 follow each other rapidly or slowly, according to the species and 

 the individual. 




410 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



2. Increase iu size takes place chiefly between the moults and is 

 largely dependent on the food. 



3. Moulting does not occur at regular intervals after the spiders 

 leave the cocoon, but according to the amount of food. 



4. Sensory reactions to external stimuli are poorly developed in 

 the very young animals, and are not manifested until the spiders 

 seem ready to put them to immediate use. They then develop and 

 become more acute with practice. The earliest reactions to appear 

 can be interpreted as fear. 



5. Although at an early stage distinction between light and 

 darkness is possible, distinction between objects is not. 



6. Cannibalism does not appear while the young are iu the cocoon, 

 although in Agaleaa it is a marked characteristic afterwards. 



7. Young spiders can withstand a very cold, moist atmosphere, 

 but not a warm, dry atmosphere. 



8. Young Argiope always rest with the ventral side uppermost 

 when isolated ; the ventral side is turned outwards when the spiders 

 are in a ball or group. 



9. The cocoon prevents evaporation of moisture and serves as a 

 support for the young spiders, and, to a less extent, as a protec- 

 tion against enemies. 



10. Young spiders differ in growth and habits, specifically and 

 individually. 



11. Those instinctive reactions which are most advantageous to 

 the species become habitual through repetition aud selection. 



Bibliography. 



(1) Balbiani, M. — Memoii-e sur le Developpement des Ara- 

 neides. Ann. Sci. Nat., Zool., S4r. 5, XVIII, 1873. 



(2) Balfour, F. M. — Notes on the Development of the Ara- 

 ueina. Quart. Jour. Micr. Sci., XX, 1880. 



(3) Claparede, E. — Recherches sur 1' Evolution des Araignees. 

 Naturk. Verhaudl. Utrecht, I, 1862. 



(4) Herold, M. — De Generatione Aranearum in ovo. Mar- 

 burg, 1824. 



(5) Kishinouye, K. — On the Development of Araneiua. 

 Jour. Col. Sci. Imp. Univ. Japan, 1891. 



(G). Locy, W. A. — Observations ou the Development of 

 Agelena X;i?via. Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool., Harvard Coll., XII, 

 1889. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 411 



(7) McCook, H. C. — American Spiders and Their Spinning 

 Work. II, Philadelphia, 1889. 



(8) Morin, J. — Zur Eutwicklungssreschichte der Spinnen. Biol. 

 Centralbl., VI, 1886-1887. 



(9) Peckham, George and Elizabeth. — ^leutal Powers of 

 Spiders. Jour. jNIorph., I, 1887. 



(10) Rathke, H. — Eutwickluugsgeschichte der Lycosa saccata. 

 Froriep's Neue Notizeu, Bd 24, 1842. 



(11) Von Wittich, W. H. — Observationes quiedam de Arane- 

 arum ex ovo evolutione. Halis, 1845. 



(12) Id. Die Eutstehuug des Arachnideneies im Eierstocke; 

 die ersten Vorgiinge in demselben uach seinem Verlassen des Mut- 

 terkorpers. Miiller's Archiv, Jahrg, 1849. 



EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. 



Plate IX. 



Fig. 1. Longitudinal section of abdomen of Argiope cophinaria 



in March; ai)])roximate age, five months. Reichert 



oc. 2, obj. 7a. 

 Fig. 2. Longitudinal section of A. cophinaria in November; 



approximate age, one month. Reichert oe. 2, obj. 3. 

 Fig. 3. Longitudinal section of cephalothorax of A. cophinaria 



in November. Richert oc. 2, obj. 7a. 

 Fig.- 4. Longitudinal section of abdomen of A. cophinaria in 



November. Reichert oc. 2, obj. 7a. 



Plate X. 



5-11. Outlines of cephalothorax and abdomen of Agalena 

 ncevia, " d " and " b," X 9. 

 " d," February 28, age 105 days from hatching, length 



of body 2.2 mm. 

 "d," March 14, age 119 davs, length 2.28 mm. 

 " d," March 23, age 128 days, length 3 mm. 

 " d," April 11, age 147 days, length 3.65 mm. 

 " d," April 15, age 151 days, length 4 ram. 

 " b," February 28, age 105 days, length 2.36 mm. 

 " b, " March 14, age 119 days, length 3.5 mm. 

 A. ncevia, " b, " dorsal view, March 23, age 128 days, 

 length of body 4.5 mm. x 7. 

 Figs. 13 and 14. Dorsal and ventral views respectively of A. 

 ncevia, "b," April 14, age 150 days, length of body 

 5 mm. X 7. 

 All the figures 1-14 are from camera drawings. 




412 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



May 1. 



Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 

 Seventeen persons present. 



A paper entitled " Flora of Willow Grove and the Edgehill 

 Ridge," by Alexander McElwee, was presented for publication. 



Mr. Thomas Meehan was appointed to prepare a biographical 

 notice of the late Mr. Charles E. Smith for the Proceedings. 



May 8. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 

 Twenty-seven persons present. 



A paper entitled "A Review of the Physte of Northwestern 

 Illinois," by Frank C. Baker, pi-esented for publication April 17, 

 was, at the request of the author, transferred to the editor of The 

 Nautilus. 



Mr. Charles Morris was, at his request, granted permission to 

 withdraw his paper entitled " Subterranean Watei*s," presented 

 for publication March 27, 1900. 



Mr. Charles Roberts was elected a member of the Council 

 to fill the vacancy caused by the death of Mr. Charles E. Smith. 



May 15. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 



Twenty -five persons present. 



A paper entitled " Observations ou the Anatomy of Hylobates 

 leuciscus and Chiromys madaga^cariensis." by Henry C. Chap- 

 man, M.D., was presented for publication. 




1900.] xatural sciences of philadelphia. 413 



May 22. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixox, JNI. D. , iu the Chair. 

 Twenty persons present. 



May 29. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixox, M.D., iu the Chair. 

 Sixteen persons present. 



A paper entitled " On the Osteology of Vulpes macrotis," by 

 R. "W. Shufeldt, Avas presented for publication. 



The death of William Wynne Wister, Jr., a member, the 27th 

 inst., was announced. 



The following was ordered to be printed: 




414 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



OBSERVATIONS UPON THE ANATOMY OF HYLOBATES LEUCISCUS AND 

 CHIROMYS MADAGASCARIENSIS. 



BY DR. HENRY C. CHAPMAN. 

 HyLOBATES LEUCISCUS. 



An the opportunity of dissecting a gibbon is comparatively 

 rare, it is hoped that a brief account of the results of the dis- 

 section of the young individual that recently died at the Philadel- 

 phia Zoological Garden may prove acceptable to the Academy. 

 The gibbons, of which there are several species, are found, as well 

 known, over a considerable area of Eastern Asia and the ^falay 

 Archipelago. Together with the gorilla, chimpanzee and orang, 

 they constitute the group of Anthropomorpha, or anthropoid apes, 

 of Avhich they are the least anthropoid in their nature, resembling 

 man more particularly in the character of the thorax. The gib- 

 bons are the smallest of the anthropoids, rarely attaining a height 

 of more than three feet. The head is small, and the body and 

 limbs are slender. Thev are the only anthropoids that exhibit 

 ischial callosities. The most striking peculiarity of the animal 

 externally is the length of the upper extremities, the fingers touch- 

 ing the ground wdien standing erect, which it often does. "While 

 they can run very rapidly, putting the sole of the foot flat upon 

 the ground, which they often do, the genus is naturally arboreal in 

 its habit, passing quickly from bough to bough in the forests which 

 it inhabits, the movements being executed by means of its long 

 arras with marvelous accuracy and force, twenty feet and more 

 being covered at one bound. 



Notwithstanding the small size of the gibbons, all observers agree 

 as to the great volume of their voice, the cry of the Siamang, Hylo- 

 bates syndactijlus, being heard in its native woods miles away, its 

 vocal sound beiug more powerful than that of any human singer. 

 It may be also mentioned in this connection that the gibbon 

 is the only mammal that can be really said to sing. The Wouwoo, 

 Hylohates agilis, has been heard to emit at the London Zoologi- 

 cal Garden the rising and falling scale of the semitones of the 



J 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 415 



octave.^ The gibbon presented to the Academy by the Philadel- 

 phia Zoological Society, and upon the dissection of which this com- 

 munication is based, is that known to zoologists, according to Mr. 

 Arthur E. Brown, Secretary of the Society, as Hyhhates lenciscus, 

 the silvery gibbon. As the anatomy of the gibbons is more or less 

 well known, attention will only be directed to those parts of the 

 economy of the animal under consideration which differ more par- 

 ticularly from those of man and the remaining anthropoids. 



Muscular System. — Our gibbon, a young male, measured from 

 the crown of the head to the heel 21.75 inches (55 centimeters). 

 The length of the upper extremity from the shoulder to the tip 

 of the middle finger was 17 inches (43 centimeters), that of the 

 lower extremity from the hip to the tip of the middle toe only 

 13.25 inches (33.5 centimeters). 



The muscles of the face were undifferentiated. In the cervical 

 region the levator claviculte was obser^'ed extending, as in the other 

 anthropoids, from the transverse . process of the atlas to the 

 acromial end of the clavicle. The biceps arose by two heads, both, 

 however, being humeral in origin, the small head arising from the 

 lesser tubercle of the humerus instead of from the coracoid process, 

 as in man. The latissimo condyloideus extended to the condyle of 

 the humerus, not merely to the centre of the humerus, as stated by 

 Hartmann.^ The brachialis anticus was well developed, though its 

 presence was not noted in the gibbon described by Bischoff.^ The 

 pronator radii teres arose by one head. There was nothing especially 

 noticeable about the flexors sublimis and profundus digitorum. The 

 slip from the tendon of the flexor profundus supplying the ring 

 finger split, however, into two tendons, one of which, that ordi- 

 narily present, perforating the tendon of the sublimis, the other, 

 the accessory one, being inserted into the first phalanx of the index 

 finger. The latter disposition was probably an abnormal one. The 

 part of the flexor profundus supphang the thumb was so completely 

 separated from the rest of the muscle that it might almost be re- 

 garded as a distinct flexor longus pollicis, as is the case in man. 



' C. L. Martin, A General Introduction to the Natural History of Mam- 

 miferous Animals, etc., 1841. Owen, The Anatomy of Vertebrates, Vol. 

 Ill, p. 600. 



"^Anthropoid Apes, p. 164. 



' Beitrage zur Anatomie des Hylobates leuciscus. 




416 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



All of the muscles of the thumb — viz., the abductor, opponeas, 

 flexor and adductor poUicis — were present and well developed. In 

 addition to the muscles of the little finger usually present, the ab- 

 ductor, flexor and opponens, it was also supplied by a distinct 

 extensor proprius minimi digit i. 



There was nothing particularly noticeable about the muscles of 

 the dorsal surface of the upper extremity. The extensor indices split 

 into three tendons, which supj)lied the ring, middle and index fin- 

 gers. The extensor ossi metacarpi pollicis gave off" two tendons, 

 one of which passed to the metacarpal bone, the other to the trape- 

 zium, as is. of ten the case in man and monkeys. The extensor primi 

 internodii pollicis was absent; the extensor secuudi was so inserted, 

 however, as to act on both the first and the second phalanges of the 

 pollex. The luinbricales were well developed. Of the contiatentes 

 digitorum, or the little muscles passing from the deep fascia over 

 the metacarpal bones to the digits, two were observed, those sup- 

 plying the second and fifth digits. The palmar and dorsal inter- 

 ossei were much developed, indeed remarkably so considering the 

 size of the hand. The nerves of the upper extremity were exceed- 

 ingly well developed, the median ulnar and radial especially so. 



There ^vas nothing especially to be noted about the muscles of 

 the hip and thigh. The soleus was observed to arise from the fibula 

 alone, and not as in man from both fibula and tibia. The plantaris, 

 peroneus tertius and flexor accessorius were absent. The flexor 

 longus hallucis gives a strong tendon to the big toe and three perfor- 

 ating tendons to the second, third and fourth toes, with lumbricales 

 for the third and fourth toes only. The flexor longus digitorum 

 contributes to the formation of the tendon of the flexor longus hal- 

 lucis and supplies the third, fourth and little toes, the tendons sup- 

 plying the third and fourth toes only being perforated by the two 

 corresponding tendons of the flexor longus hallucis. The flexor 

 brevis digitorum appears to supply the second toe only; it is per- 

 forated by the corresponding tendon of the flexor longus hallucis. 

 The tendon to the fifth toe, corresponding functionally to that of the 

 flexor brevis digitorum in man, appears when present to be derived 

 from the flexor lougus digitorum, as well as the deeper tendon from 

 the same nuiscle already referred to. The muscles of the big and 

 little toe, usually present, were noticed. Of the contratentes 

 digitorum, that supplying the little toe was the only one observed. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 417 



The interossei were not as well deve]oi:)ed in the foot as in the 

 hand. 



The Larynx. — In accord with what has just been !;aid as to 

 the voice being so powerful in the gibbon, one would naturally 

 expect to find the larynx large and well developed, Avith its 

 lateral ventricles dilated into enormous air sacs, as seen in the 

 gorilla, chimpanzee and orang, or some modification of the 

 hyoid apparatus such as occurs in the South American Howler, 

 Mycetes alouetta. As a matter of fact, however, in our gibbon the 

 larynx was not unusually large nor were the vocal membranes or 

 ventricles specially well developed. Not a trace of a laryngeal sac 

 was to be seen, either as sacs communicating with the larynx by 

 the ventricles or by openings in the thyro-hyoid membrane, as 

 is said to be the case in the Siamaug.* Indeed, it is only in the 

 latter species of gibbon that a large air .sac has been found, the 

 sac in this species being globular and to be regarded morphologi- 

 cally as a development of the thyroid hyoid membrane. 



It must be admitted that the manner in which the loud voice is 

 produced in the gibbons is not understood. That a laryngeal sac 

 exerts but little influence in this respect is shown by the fact that 

 the voice of the gibbon in which the sac is absent is as loud as in 

 that in Avhich it is present. Indeed, beyond the statement that a 

 laryngeal sac acts as a resonator, there is little to be said as to the 

 function even of the enormous sacs present in the remaining an- 

 thropoids. 



Origin of the Great Blood Vessels. — The manner in which the 

 great blood vessels are given off from the aorta in the gibbon 

 difiers from that in man. In the gibbon the aorta gives off an 

 innominate and a left subclavian artery, the innominate in turn 

 giving rise to the right subclavian and the two common carotid 

 arteries, the disposition being similar to that observed in the 

 orang. 



Alimentary Canal. — There was nothing especially remarkable in 

 the anatomy of the alimentary canal. The salivary glands were large 

 and the rugae of the palate were very prominent. The absence of a 

 uvula was noted. The stomach Avas rather of a globular form, 

 and resembled the human stomach much more than that of the 



■• Huxley, Anatomy of Vertebrated Animals, p. 412. 

 27 




418 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



orang, which is much elongated. Valvulte couuiventes were 

 absent ; the patches of Peyer were, however, well developed. The 

 urogenital apparatus did not present any remarkable peculiarity. 

 The kidney exhibited, as in the case of the orang, only one papilla. 

 There was one pancreatic duct and it opened into the duodenum 

 close to that of the hepatic duct. The gall bladder was large and 

 elongated, which was possibly due to the presence of gall stones. 

 The vermiform appendix was present, measuring three centimeters 

 (1^ inches), but was both relatively and absolutely smaller than 

 that of other anthropoids. 



The Brain. — The brain in the present individual, as in the gib- 

 bons generally, was small. Unlike that of the Siamang," however, 

 the posterior lobes of the cerebrum covered completely the cere- 

 bellum, as was also the case in the brain of the silvery gibbon de- 

 scribed and figured by Bischoff.® There was nothing particularly 

 noticeable about the gyri and sulci, the principal ones being iden- 

 tified. It should be mentioned, however, that the calcarine fissure 

 passed continuously into the hippocampal fissure, the gyrus forni- 

 catus being separated, therefore, fx*om the hippocampal gyrus, a 

 disposition which, according to Ecker," does not obtain in the genus 

 Hijlobates. The parieto-occipital fissure did not reach the calcarine, 

 the two fissures being separated by the convolution known as the 

 " deuxieme plis de passage interne" of Gratiolet, or the " untere 

 innere sheitelbogen-windung " of BischofT. The ventricle was well 

 developed and contained the hippocampus minor, and what 

 appeared to be the remains of the eminentia collateralis. The 

 brain of the gibbon resembles in some respect that of the Sem- 

 nop'dhecus and in others that of the orang. Indeed, so much so is 

 this the case, that it may be regarded as bridging over to a consid- 

 erable extent the gap in cerebral development between the two. 



The study of the organization of the gibbon, a resume of 

 which has just been given, leads to the conclusion, long since 

 reached by the author, that the proposition advanced by the late 

 Prof, Huxley, that the difterence between man and the anthropoids 

 is less than that between the anihropoids and the remaining Simia% 

 except as regards the skeleton, is not true. The gibbon, for exam- 



* Flower, Phil. Trans., 1862, I, p. 185. 

 « Op. cit., S. 76. 



^ The Cerebral Convolutions of Man. Translated by K. T. Edes. M.D.. 

 p. 76. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA." 419 



pie, as regards the general character of the brain, in the pi*es- 

 ence and absence of certain muscles, in the origin of the great 

 bloodvessels, and in other respects, resembles the lower Simise more 

 than it does man. Further, the association of the four anthropoids 

 in one group Anthropomorpha, as contrasted with the remaining 

 Catarrhine or Cynomorpha, is an artificial, not a natural one, since 

 there is no evidence to show that the anthropoids have descended 

 from a common ancestor or are directly related genetically to each 

 other. On the contrary, it is much more probable that each an- 

 thropoid has descended from some highly specialized Catarrhine — 

 the gorilla, for example, from some Cynocephalus, Macacque, or 

 like form; the gibbon from a Semnopithecoid one, and so on, the 

 gibbon and orang being closely related on the one hand, the chim- 

 panzee and gorilla on the other. 



Chiromys madagascariensis. 



The Aye Aye, so called on account of the natives uttering that 

 exclamation the first time the animal was seen, was discovered by 

 Sounerat in the island of Madagascar about the year 1785, and 

 was first described and figured by that naturalist.' For a long 

 time after its discovery considerable diflference of oi^iuion prevailed 

 among systematists as to its exact zoological position. According 

 to Sonnerat the animal resembled a squirrel in some respects, in 

 others a lemur. Buffou regarded it as a squirrel, Cuvier as 

 a squirrel with quadrumanous afl^iuities, Schreber as a lemur, etc. 

 Indeed, it was not until the year 1863, nearly a century after it 

 was discovered, that the Aye Aye was shown conclusively by the 

 researches of the late Prof. Owen^ to be essentially in its nature 

 a lemur. 



As our knowledge of the organization of the Aye Aye is some- 

 what limited, the only works treating of its anatomy, so far as is 

 known to the author, being the monograph of Owen just cited and 

 the later supplementary account of Peters," it is hoped that the 

 following observations will not be regarded as superfluous. The 

 individual upon whose dissection the present communication is 



* Voyage aux Fades des Orientales et a La Chine. Paris. 1806. Tome 



IV, p. 121. Plate 92. 



^"On the Aye Aye," Trans, of the Zoological Society. Loudon, Vol. 



V, 1866. 



^^ Ueber die Sdugethiergattung Chiromys. Abhdlg. d. Berliu. Akad., 1865. 




420 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1900. 



based, though preserved in alcohol for several months, was in 

 fairly good condition. It was a female, and measured from crown 

 of head to the heel 45 centimeters (18 inches). The length of 

 the upper extremity from shoulder to tip of middle finger measured 

 22.5 centimeters (9 inches), that of the lower extremity from hip 

 to tip of middle toe 30 centimeters (12 inches). 



Nervous System. — Owing to the softened conditif)n of the brain, 

 necessitating its removal enclosed in the dura mater, and to the 

 subsequent unsuccessful hardening of the same, we have but little 



Fis- 1. 



Fiff. 2. 



to say about it other than that in the general configuration, in the 

 presence of a well-developed corpus callosum, in the simple charac- 

 ter and paucity of fissures, and in the almost entire exposure of the 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 421 



eerebellura, the posterior lobes of the cerebrum being so little de- 

 veloped, it resembled that described aud figured by Owen. As the 

 nerves of the extremities are not described by either Owen or Peters, 

 it should be mentioned that, as regards the distribution of the nerves 

 to the hand, it was observed that while the thumb and index finger 

 were supplied by the median nerve, and the little and ring fingers 

 by the ulnar nerve, the middle long slender finger was supplied 

 by two branches which came from somewhat of a plexus formed 

 through the union of the median and ulnar nerves, as shown in 

 Fig. 2. It need hardly be mentioned that such a disposition is 

 an unusual one, the little finger and ulnar side of the ring finger 

 being supplied in five-fingered animals by the ulnar nerve, the 

 radial side of the ring and remaining fingers and thumb by the 

 median nerve. We shall see, however, presently that the middle 

 slender finger is not only supplied by nerves derived from both 

 the median and ulnar nerves, but by a greater number of muscles 

 than ordinary. 



Such disposition appears to be correlated with the function of 

 the long middle finger which, as is well known, the Aye Aye makes 

 use of in searching for its food, inserting it into pieces of wood 

 containing the grubs upon which the animal preferably feeds. 

 That the view just offered as accounting for the rich nervous and 

 muscular supply of the middle finger is the correct one is further 

 shown by the fact that in the case of the foot the big toe, second, 

 middle and tibial side of fourth toe are supplied by the internal 

 plantar nerve, and the little toe and fibular side of the fourth toe 

 by the external plantar nerve (Fig. 1). 



Muscular System. — As the muscular system of the x-Vye Aye has 

 been described with considerable detail by Prof. Oweu, attention 

 will be directed more particularly to such muscles as were not 

 noticed by that anatomist or which diftered in regard to their dis- 

 position. 



Of the muscles of the cervical region and upper extremity two 

 were observed not mentioned by Owen. They are especially in- 

 teresting as being found in all lemurs and monkeys, from the Aje 

 Aye to the gorilla. These are the elevator clavicular, extending 

 from the transverse process of the atlas to the acromial end of the 

 clavicle, and the latissimo condyloideus, passing from the latis 

 simus dorsi to the internal condyle of the humerus. 




422 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



The three short muscles ordinarily supplying the little finger and 

 the four short muscles supplying the thumb were all well devel- 

 oped. The tendon o^' the flexor longus pollicis came oflf, however, 

 from the tendon of the flexor profundus digitorum, the muscular 

 belly of the pollicis being entirely undifferentiated from that of the 

 profundus. The four tendons of the sublimis were perforated as 

 usual by the four tendons of the profundus, four lumbricales being 

 given off by the latter, as was observed by Owen, instead of three, 

 the usual number. The interossei were well developed. The ex- 

 tensor muscles of the hand were four in number — an extensor com- 

 munis digitorum supplying the four fingers, a second extensor situ- 

 ated beneath the communis supplying the ring and middle fingers, 

 an extensor indicis supplying the index and middle fingers, and an 

 extensor minimi digiti supplying the little and ring fingers. It will 

 be observed, therefore, that the middle finger is supplied by three 

 distinct muscles, an unusual number, the significance of which 

 has been already referred to. 



In addition to the four extensor muscles just mentioned, there 

 were present two long extensors of the thumb, an extensor ossi 

 metacarpi pollicis and an extensor secundi internodii pollicis. 



Regai'ding the muscles of the lower extremity and more especially 

 of those of the leg and foot, it may be mentioned that the tibialis 

 anticus, the extensor proprius hallucis, the extensor longus and 

 brevis digitorum were well developed. In addition to the peroneus 

 longus and brevis, two other peronei muscles were observed not 

 noticed by Owen, viz., a 'peroneus quarti digiti and a peroneus 

 quinti digiti, the two muscles being inserted into the terminal 

 phalanges of the fourth and fifth toes respectively. The two short 

 muscles of the little toe and the four short muscles of the big toe 

 were well developed. No trace was found, however, of the ex- 

 tensor brevis hallucis described and figured by Owen. 



The tendon of the flexor longus hallucis entei-s largely into the 

 formation of that of tlie tendon of the longus digitorum, the 

 former supplying more particularly the big toe and the second and 

 fifth toes, the latter the third and fourth toes. The only portion of 

 the flexor brevis digitorum observed arising from the calcaneum 

 was the muscular slip supplying the fifth toe, the three remaining 

 slips coming off from the conjoined tendons of the longus digito- 

 rum and longus hallucis. All four tendons of the flexor sublimis 

 were perforated by the tendons of tiie longus hallucis and longus 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 423 



digitorum. Four lumbricales were present, as in. the case of the 

 hand, and the interossei were equally well developed. 



The Viscera. — There was nothing especially noteworthy regard- 

 ing the alimentary canal and its appendages other than what have 

 already been described by Owen and Peters. The caput coli, 

 however, at least in the specimen dissected by the writer, exhibited 

 a decided constriction into two parts, a proximate portion cor- 

 responding to the csecum and a terminal one, much narrower, 

 about 2.5 centimeters (1 inch) in length, resembling very closely 

 the vermiform appendix of man and the anthropoids. 



The great blood vessels arose from the aorta, as described by 

 Peters, the right subclavian and the trunk of the common carotids 

 springing from an innominate, the left subclavian separately from 

 the aorta. 



No trace of a laryngeal pouch such as that descril^ed by Owen 

 was observed, its absence being perhaps due to the fact that the 

 animal was a female. 



The uro-genital apparatus agreed essentially in its structure with 

 that described by Peters, the urethra passing into the vagina 

 through the anterior wall of the latter instead of perforating the 

 clitoris, as is usually the case in lemurs. The clitoris and external 

 orifice of the vagina were concealed externally by a circular fold of 

 integument. It is an interesting fact that while the imperforate 

 condition of the clitoris in Chiromys is exceptional among the lem- 

 urs, on the other hand the perforated condition of the clitoris, as 

 in Capromys, is exceptional among the Rodentia, the urethra 

 passing in the latter into the vagina. 



According to many systematists, the lemurs, including Chiromys, 

 together with the Simiada and man, are classed together as Pri- 

 mates; according to others the lemurs are separated from the 

 Simiadfe and man and classed apart as half apes or Prosimii, and 

 are regarded as being the ancestors of the Simiadte, Insectivora, 

 Cheiroptera and Rodentia. If the latter view be adopted, then the 

 slender LoHs may be regarded as the ancestor of the SimiadjB, 

 Tarsiiis of the Insectivora, Galeopitheeus of the Cheiroptera and 

 Chiromys of the Rodentia, the rodent afiinities of Chiromys being 

 shown not only by its general resemblance to a squirrel and the 

 form of its incisor teeth, but by the character of its alimentary 

 canal and uro-genital apparatus. 




424 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [lUOO. 



June 5. 



Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Sixteen persons present. 



A paper entitled "Notes on Hyacinth Roots," by Ida A. Kel- 

 ler, was presented for publication. 



A Collapsing Crater. — Mr. Edw. Goldsmith referred to his 

 communication on a volcanic crater of the Mesozoic age near 

 Pottstown, a locality within easy reach by trolley cars. In fact, 

 it is a popular resort because of the peculiar formations occurring 

 there. 



Several years ago the crater in question had a perfect cauldron- 

 like contour within; but this has changed in such a way as to indi- 

 cate its gradual collapse. 



The southern and western sides apparently remain intact, but 

 all of the northern and part of the eastern sides show the recks to 

 have moved toward the centre of the crater. 



The huge rocks which have moved inward were, two years ago, 

 in a vertical position, l>ut were cracked straight down to the bot- 

 t[>m of the crater, prol)al)ly from the main mass in situ. 



These cracks at that time presented an opening of an inch, 

 more or less, but now, since their movement toward ihe centre, 

 they have become so large that a man can crawl through the 

 gap. Three masses, standing on edge, and weighing in the aggre- 

 gate one huudred tous or more, have taken part in the movement. 



As the iuner contour remains, there is evidence of the actual 

 former existence of a crater, although the clear cauldron-like 

 form is changed. When further movement takes place it will 

 entirely disappear, leaving an irregular pile of rocks grouped in 

 the greatest disorder, upon which the weather will work its smooth- 

 ing effects just as is now observable in a number of places on the 

 same hill, ail of which are, as he had formerly demoustrated, 

 collapsed craters. 



That they were craters is clearly evidenced by the existence of 

 the enormous fragments of basaltic columns, by the taohvlite 

 which is an opaque obsidian, by the four lava-Hows forming the 

 terraces, and by the amygdaloidal rocks. The last crater in that 

 locality is now working toward its own annihilation. 




1900.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 425 



June 12. 



Chaeles Schaeffer, M.D. , in the Chair. 



Thirteen persons present. 



A paper entitled *' Note on the Australian Pupidse," by Henry 

 A. Pilsbry, was presented for publication. 



June 19. 



Mr. Charles Morris in the Chaii*. 



Sixteen persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : 

 " A New Crayfish from New Mexico," by T. D. A. Cockerell 



and Wilmatte Porter. 



' ' The Structure of the Diatom Girdle, " by T. C. Palmer and 



F. J. Keeley. 



June 26. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 



Seventeen persons present. 



A pajDer entitled ' ' On the Osteology of Vulpes raacrotis, ' ' by 

 Dr. R. W. Shufeldt, was ordered to be published in the Journal. 



The following were ordered to be printed: 




426 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1900. 



NOTE ON THE AUSTRALIAN PUPID^l. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



To ascertain the geographic range of the genus Bifidaria I was 

 led to examine the Australian species in the collection of the 

 Academy, and as no author seems to have indicated their place in 

 the system, it may be as well to i^ut the facts on record. 



Four genera of the family Pupidce are represented, of which one, 

 Cylindrovertilla, has been found in Australia and New Caledonia 

 only, the others being widely distributed. 



Fig. 1. 



Fig. 2. 



Fis. 



Fig. 4. 



Fig. 1. Pupoidea paeificus (Pfr.), Facing Isl., Queensland. Fig. 2. Pupa 

 ficnlnea Tate, Palm creek, central Australia. Fig. 3. CylindrotertUln 

 kinqi (Cox), Sydney, N.S.W. Fig. 4. Bifidaria strangei (,Pfr.),Narrabri, 

 N. S.Wales. 



Key to Genera. 



-Aperture toothless except for a nodule (angle lamella^ usually 

 developed at the posterior angle; peristome expanded or 

 reflexed; shell brown, tapering above, 5i///»u";H<.-i-shaped, 



PUPOIDES (tig. 1). 




1900.] 



NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



427 



a\ — Aperture with a parietal and a coluinellar lamella, and one or 

 two palatal folds, or toothless ; form cylindric, blunt at the 

 ends, the whorls narrow, hardly oblique, Pupa (fig. 2). 



a^ — Angle lamella developed, no parietal; a small columellar 

 lamella and upper palatal fold. Sinistral and minute, 



Cylindeovertilla (fig 3). 



a*. — Angle lamella and a more immersed parietal lamella devel- 

 oped, the two converging and usually more or less united; a 

 columellar lamella and two or three palatal folds generally 

 present. Shell whitish, teeth white, Bifidaria (fig. 4). 



Lamella 



Supracolumellar 



Columellar 



Subcolumellar 



: Suprapalatal 

 Upper palatal 



W -•- J 



^J — -1: : : Interpalatal 

 y j ' --Lower palatal 



- - "--' Infrapalatal 



Fig. 5. Xomenclature of lamellae and folds. 



The nomenclature of folds is indicated in Fig. 5. The palatals 

 may be identified, when the normal number of three is reduced, by 

 remembering that the lower palatal fold is about equidistant from 

 the columellar and parietal lamella?, and straight lines connecting 

 these three teeth form an approximately equilateral triangle. There 

 are sometimes accessory folds within the lip, designated infrapalatal, 

 interpalatal or suprapalatal, according to their positions. 



I have confined my observations on Australian species to those 

 in the collection of the Academy, referring merely to Dr. Cox's 

 Monograph, Mr. Smith's paper on "Western Australian shells, and 

 Prof. Tate's report on the Horn Expedition for confirmation of 

 the identifications. A wider reference to the literature would 




428 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



probably increase the nuniber of species, but is unnecessary for 

 my present purpose. 



Genus PUPOIDES Pfr., 1854. 



Besides its distribution in the two Americas and Antilles, this 

 genus is represented in southern Asia (P. ccenopietus, P. lardeus), in 

 tropical Africa (P. senegalensii), and in Australia, where it is 

 represented by P. pacifieus Pfr. , P. adelaidce A. and A. , P. con- 

 trarlm Smith, P. isehnus Tate, and I suppose P. lepidulus A. and 

 A. (described as Chondrula), and P. myoporince Tate, the latter 

 two not known to me by specimens. 



Some Australian and African species are sinistral, and at least 

 one, P. contrarius Smith, either sinistral or dextral. Prof. Tate's 

 P. ischnus is perhaps the most aberrant of the Australian group, 

 l)ut they all seem closely allied. 



Genus PUPA Drap., 1801. 



The Australian species exhibit the common characters of this 

 genus, which, though wanting in Polynesia and South America, is 

 pretty generally distributed elsewhere. Even when toothless, like 

 the original type of P. miiscontm, the contour of the shell readily 

 distinguishes it from Pupoides. Generally a pai'ietal and a colum- 

 ellar lamella and the lower palatal fold are developed, frequently 

 the upper palatal also, in Australian forms. 



Pupa australis A. and A., P. ficulnea Tate and P. liucolnieims 

 Cox belong here, and also, judging from description and figure, P, 

 nelsoni Cox. 



Genus CYLINDROVERTILLA Boettgcr, 1881. 



The arrangement of folds is quite peculiar in this group, which 

 was founded for the New Caledonian P. Jabreami Crosse. The 

 single lamella upon the parietal wall is not the usual parietal 

 lamella, but the supraparietal or angle lamella ; and the larger 

 denticle on the palatal side is apparently tiie upper palatal fold 

 rather than the usually persistent lower palatal. 



C. hlmjl Cox, the only Australian species, is shorter, more oval 

 than fabreaiia, but both species are alike in being sinistral and 

 quite minute. The dentition varies somewhat, a lower palatal fold 

 often being developed. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 429 



Genus BIFIDARIA Sterkl, 1889. 



The converging, often united, angle and parietal lamellae, and the 

 whitish shell with white teeth are characteristic. The extra- Aus- 

 tralian distribution of the genus is wide, though less extended than 

 that of Pupa or Pupoides. In America the greatest modifications 

 as well as most species occur ; but in eastern Asia, from Japan to 

 India, it occurs, and B. pediculus, or slight modifications thereof, 

 are widely spread in Polynesia and the East Indies. 



The Australian group of species is closely allied^ to B. pediculus, 

 and falls into the typical section of Bifidaria. Some American 

 forms, such as B. jyi'ototypus Pilsbry and B. dalliana Sterki, are 

 very similar, though in most other American, as well as the Chinese 

 forms of the typical section of Bifidaria, the angle lamella and 

 parietal lamella are more intimately united, forming a single sinu- 

 ous, bifid, or emarginate lamella. But this varies by easy stages 

 from complete union to separation of the lamellae. 



Some of the Australian species, like B. larapinta Tate and B. 

 rossiteri Braz., have the form of the American B. jjrocera group, 

 with teeth like B. prototypus, while others are rather more conic. 

 B. strangei Pfr. is usually sinistral, but not aberrant in dentition. 

 In B. mooreana Smith the angle lamella is much reduced or even 

 absent, a reduction parallel to what has taken place in the Ameri- 

 can B. pilshryana and B. pentodon. 



I have not seen P. ivallabyensis Smith, P. macdonneUi Braz , P. 

 margareke Cox, and P. moretonensis Cox, species probably refer- 

 able to Bifidaria; the latter two certainly belonging there. 



The occasional presence of an infraparietal lamella in some 

 Australian species is unlike most of the Americans, in which this 

 tooth is very rarely developed. 



I do not regard Bifidaria as related to the Polynesian groups of 

 which P. lyrata Gld. and P. tantilla Gld. are representatives, 

 further than by the general bond of common ancestry which con- 

 nects Bifidaria, Hypselostoma, Torquilla, Faxila and these Poly- 

 nesian forms. 



Summary. — Three of the four Australian genera of Pupidxe are 

 common to that continent and Indo-China, extending thence to 

 Africa and America, and one {Pujm') to Europe. One genus, Bifi- 

 daria, is represented also in Polynesia by the widely spread species 




430 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900, 



pediculus.'^ The only local group is CylindroveHiUa which occurs 

 elsewhere in New Caledonia. There is no "Antarctic" type in 

 the Piqndce. So far as their Australian distribution is concerned, 

 the Pupidce agree with the Epiphallogonous Helices and probably 

 reached Australia by the same land connection and at the same 

 time, from the northward. 



^ Probably the range of B. pedicnlus has been greatly extended by human 

 agency. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 431 



NOTE ON POLYNESIAN AND EAST INDIAN PUPID^. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



Inquiries bearing on the origin and affinities of the land snails 

 of Polynesia caused me to investigate the Pupa groups of the 

 region. The chief work upon them is that of Boettger, who gives 

 in the second volume of Prof, von Martens' Conchologische Mit- 

 theilungen a review of the species, illustrating those knoAvn to him 

 by specimens. Several later papers by the same industrious author 

 have appeared in the BeHchte der Senckenherrjisclxe Gesellschaft, 

 dealing with East Indian forms. The general grouping adopted by 

 Boettger seems to be supported in the main by my own observa- 

 tions; but a few minor points may require revision. In referring 

 East Indian forms to the Madeiran group Staurodon of Lowe, it 

 seems to me that a mere analogy has been given undue weight. 

 The form and structure of the angle tubercle — for it can hardly be 

 called a " lamella angularis" — is quite different in the Madeiran 

 Staurodon saxicola and the Oriental so-called Staurodon species. 

 In the latter it has the form of that in the group I calVJSlesojmpa, ^ 

 only much shortened. I would therefore remove Staurodon from 

 the nomenclature of Oriental Pupidce. 



We have, then, four groups remaining, as follows : 



1. Bifidaria Sterki. The characters and synonomy of this 

 genus have been discussed in my paper on Australian Pupidse, and 

 will be more fully considered in that by Mr. Vanatta and myself 

 on the American forms. 



The species of the area under discussion are widely distributed 

 over Pol"^Tiesia, except the Sandwich group, the single species B. 

 pediculus Shuttlw. having a tremendous range, probably in part 

 owing to human transporting agencies. There are several other 

 closely allied forms, such as B. ^^/ei/Te/'t Bttg. and B. reeondita 

 T.-C, of more limited range, all of them allied to Austrahan 



^ I am aware that this name is of mixed parentage, but a mongrel in this 

 case may be more convenient than a thoroughbred. 




432 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



forms. The smooth surface, white teeth, and more or less united 

 angle and parietal lamellse readily separate this type from Neso- 

 pupa. 



2. Cylindrovertilla Boettger. So far as known, confined to New 

 Caledonia, where there are two species, and eastern Australia, one 

 sj^ecies. It therefore scarcely enters the region we are considering. 



.3. Costigo Boettger.' This group resembles Nesopupa in the 

 dull brown, costulate or striate surface. It differs in having no 

 angle lamella, only a simple parietal on the parietal wall, a colu- 

 mellar always present, palatals two or none. It is probably a 

 Nesopupa, in which the angle lamella has become obsolete. Dis- 

 tribution, Saparua Island and Philippines. 



4. Nesopupa Pils.^ Small, dark brown, opaque and lustreless; 

 ribbed, costulate or striate; the aperture armed with an angle 

 lamella and a parietal, which remain distinct, not uniting as in 

 Bifidaria; columellar lamella and palatal folds as usual, the latter 

 rarely absent; lip expanded. Type N. tantilla Gld. 



This is par excellence the Polynesian type of Pupa. It is absent 

 in Australia, but occurs in the Philippines, Borneo, etc., and also 

 in Mauritius and Mayotte. A number of sections may perhaps 

 eventuall}' be distinguished, but onl}' one seems to me to have any 

 foundation in nature. This may be defined thus: 



Nesopupa ss. Peristome discontinuous above; palatal folds of 

 moderate length. 



Lyrop)upa n. sect. Peristome continuous; upj^er palatal fold 

 very long; shell strongly costate. Type N. lyrata Gld. 



The section Lyropupa contains several Hawaiian species, lyrata 

 Gld., perlonga Pse., eostata Pse.^ 



Typical Nesopupa includes tantilla Gld. with the numerous forms 

 recognized as varieties by Boettger {I. c. ), eapenm Bttg., and 



'^Benefit Senckcnb. Waturforscft. Ges., 1891, p. 270. Type Vertigo iCos- 

 tigo) saparuana Bttg. 



*The following are synonyms : 



Pugodella H. Ad., P. Z.'S., 1HG7, p. 304. Type Pupa (Pagodella) ten- 

 tricosa H. Ad. (Mauritius). Not Pagodella Swainson. 1840. 



Ptychochilm Boettger. Conch. Mittheil, II, p. 47. 1831. Type P. tantilla 

 Gld. (Polynesia), "^ot Ptychocheilus Agas., J'isces, 1855. 



Staurodon Bttg., olim, for minutalis Morel., moreleti A. D. B. Not of 

 Lowe, 1852. 



* Vertigo cuhana Dall, Proc.U. S. Nat. Mus. XIII, 1890. pp. 1, 2, I. 1. % 

 is identical with eostata Pease. My friend was naturally misled by the 

 false locality, "Cuba," of his specimen. The figures are excellent. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 433 



the Hawaiian forms, newcomhi, admodesta, parva, which have the 

 angle lamella shorter. The Philippine forms referred to Staurodon 

 also belong here, vioreleti A. D. Brown, quadrasi MlldfF. (Guam), 

 etc., and likewise mimdalis Morel. (Mayotte), ventricosa H. A.d. 

 (Mauritius), and incerta Nevill. (Bourbon). The forms with a 

 short angle lamella are probably not closely allied to each other, 

 but nearer the species with a long angle lamella, occurring in their 

 respective regions. 




434 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



A NEW CRAYFISH FROM NEW MEXICO. 



BY T. D. A. COCKERELL AND WILMATTE FORTER. 



Cambarus gallinus n. sp. 



Specific Characters. — Agrees with C. simulans Faxon, except that 

 the apical portion of the rostrum is shorter; the areola is not 

 carinate, or at best there is only the faintest indi- 

 cation of a carina; the first abdominal append- 

 ages of the cf' (form I) have the apical process of 

 the inner side long, straight, reaching considerably 

 beyond the inner processes as shown in the figure. 

 It has, with .^imulan.s, the broad, excavated ros- 

 trum ; the lines of dots on the areola ; the autennre 

 shorter than the body (when folded back reach- 

 ing about to middle of third abdominal segment) ; 

 the long, tuljerculate chela; the sternum hairy; the third pair of 

 legs alone hooked, etc. The sides of the carapace have a double 

 punctuation, small punctures being interspersed among the larger. 

 Color. — Carapace and abdomen light pinkish-brown, flecked 

 with olive-green ; abdomen with dorsal markings consisting of 

 oblique broad stripes on the segments, forming a row on each side, 

 these stripes darker than the general surface, and edged with a 

 somewhat paler tint. Ventral surface decidedly pink. Ends of 

 claws reddish. 



3feasurements. — The numbers in brackets are the percentages of 

 the total length. The measurements are in mm. : 



Letigth 

 from lip of 



rostrum to Breadth Length Length Width of Length Length 



end of of car- of car- of areola in of ros- of 



teleon. apace. apace. areola. middle. tnim. cMa. 



Las Vegas spn.... 78 21(26.9) 41(52.5) 15(19.2) 2.5 (.03) 11 (U ) 37 (47.4) 



Roswell spn 69 18 (2ii ) 35 (riO.7) 13 (1S.9) 1 (.(11)10 (14 ) >0 (43.4) 



[C. simulaus 97 27 (27 S^ 51(52.5) IS (185) 1.3 (.01) 11.5 (ll.S^ 50 5 (52 \] 



It will be seen that while C. simulans is a larger animal than 

 ours, the proportions of the parts are about the same. The Ros- 




1900. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 435 



well specimens, though containing eggs, are all small. The size of 

 the chela is variable, as thus : 



Specimen (1) d (2) $ (3) J' (4) d^ (5) ? (6) J' 



Total length 73 72 71 91 72 65 



Length of chela 28 22 32 38 22 28 



The first of these is from near Watrous, the other five are from 

 the Galliuas river. 



Hab. — Abundant in the Galhnas river at Las Vegas, and in 

 neighboring waters; also found in lakes near Watrous, N. M. 

 (^Edivard Sprinrjer), and at Roswell {J. D. Tinsley). Belongs 

 to the Pecos River basin in New Mexico, and is closely allied to C 

 Mmulam from Dallas, Tex. , and Fort Hays, Kans. It would be 

 reasonable to regard it as a slight geographical race of simidans 

 but for the quite distinct character of the first abdominal appen- 

 dages, which remains constant in the very considerable series, both 

 from Las Vegas and Roswell, which we have examined. No 

 Cambariis has heretofore l^een recorded from New Mexico. 



The types will be placed in the U. S. National ]\[useum, and 

 cotypes in the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia and 

 the Museum of Comparative Zoology. 



A brief semi-popular notice of this species appeared in The 

 Southivest, April, 1900, p. 133. 




436 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



TROCHOCYATHUS WOOLMANI, A NEW CORAL FROM THE CRETACEOUS 

 OF NEW JERSEY. 



BY T. WAYLAND VAUGHAN. 



The two specimens upon which the description of the following 

 species is based were sent me from the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia in compliance with the request of ^Ir. 

 Lewis Woolman: 



Trochocyathus woolmani sp. nov. 



1898. Plntytrochns speciosiis C. W. Johnson, Geol. Survey X. J., Ann. 



Eep. for 1897, p. 265 (in Lewis Woolman's Report on Arlesian 



Wells in New Jersey). 

 1898. Platytrochus speciosus C. W. Johnson, Proc Acad. Xat. Sci. 



Phila., 1898, p. 462 (non Platytrochus speciosus Gabb and Horn, 



Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ger.. Vol. IV, 1860, p. 899, PI. 



LXIX, figs. 15-17). 



Corallum short, inversely conical, living attached, transverse 

 outline circular. 



Dimensions. — Diameter of calice, 3.5 mm. ; altitude of coral- 

 lum, 4 mm. ; diameter of area of attachment, 1 mm. Wall rather 

 thick, naked, ornamented externally by twenty-four costiv, corre- 

 sponding to all cycles of septa, and showing a fairly regular alterna- 

 tion of larger and smaller — i. e. , there are twelve larger costae of the 

 same size corresponding to the septa of the first and second cycles, 

 and twelve smaller corresponding to the septa of the third cycle. 

 Near the calico they are prominent, with acute edges and broad 

 bases ; as the base of the corallum is approached they decrease in 

 prominence. They possess granulations along their edges, and 

 some scattered granulations on the sides. 



There are three cycles of sepia, divided into six systems. The 

 members of the first cycle are appreciably larger than the other 

 septa, and pass directly from the corallum wall to the columella 

 space without forming part of any septal group. The members of 

 the third cycle bend toward the members of the second, and fuse 

 to the sides of the latter below the level of the calice. The septal 

 margins project very slightly above the upper edge of the corallum 

 wall. The septal faces are ornamented with distant subconical 

 granulations. 



The inner end of each of the primary septa is thickened, the 




1900.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



437 



thickeuiug apparently representing a pains, and before each group 

 of the members of the second and third cycles is what appears to 

 be a slender pains; therefore, there are apparently slender pali 

 before the septa of the first and second cycles. 



The columalla is not large ; it is fasciculate, with a papillary 

 upper termination. 



The calicular fossa is shallow. 



Fig. 



Fig. 3. 



Fig. 1. 



Figs. 1 and 2 drawn from the type (No. 685, Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. ). 

 Fig. 1, upright view of corallum, altitude of specimen 4 mm. Fig. 2, cal- 

 icular view of the s:ime, diameter of calice 3. .5 mm. Fig. 3, costae of an- 

 other specimen, much enlarged, length specimen 4 mm. 



Locality.' -From artesian well, Mt. Laurel, N. J., between 150 

 and 160 feet below the surface. ' 



Geological horizon. — Cretaceous, Matawan clay marls. ^ 



Type.— 1^0. 685, Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



Mr. C. W. Johnson had identified this species with Plafytrochus 

 speciosus Gabb and Horn,- but it certainly is not that species. 

 According to Gabb, Platytrochits speciosus is .5 in. high and the 

 calice is .57 in. in diamster. It would be three times as large as 

 Trochocyathus woolmaiii, besides it possesses a deep calice. It 

 should be added that Platytrochus speciosus is certainly no Platy- 

 trochus, and it is impossible to identify it from Gabb's description 

 or figures. The type, I believe, is at the Vanderbilt University, 

 Nashville, Tenn. , but I have been unable to see it. As I could not 

 by any means find out what Gabb meant, I have discarded the 

 species altogether. The species is almost surely not Cretaceous but 

 Eocene. 



1 L. Woalman, Oeol. Surv. iY. J. Ann. Rep. for 1897, 1393, p. 262 ; C. W. 

 Johnson, Pfoc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. for 1898, p. 461. 



-Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser., Vol. IV, 1360, p. 399, PI. LXIX, 

 figs. 15, 16, 17. 




438 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



NOTES ON HYACINTH ROOTS. 

 BY IDA A. KELLER. 



Last October I purchased a dozen hyacinth bulbs which were 

 said to be specially selected and intended for water-culture. They 

 were placed in approjiriate glasses and treated according to ap- 

 proved methods ; that is, they were kept in the dark daring the fol- 

 lowing eight weeks. At the end of that time six had produced 

 extensive root systems, five showed but a meagre development in 

 this respect and had begun to decay, the odor being extremely 

 offensive. I was about to dispose summarily of the weakhngs 

 when I determined to give them another trial. I carefully re- 

 moved the decayed tissue and washed the bulbs with a solution of 

 listerine. The odor soon disappeared and in a short time roots 

 began to form. Soon other bulbs began to decay and they were 

 treated in like manner, and then they also proceeded to form new 

 roots. I had no success with hyacinth culture, but I believe the 

 fault lay in the bulbs, which seemed to fail quite generally during 

 the season. In no case did I see the flower stalk push out with 

 that fine vigor which is so charactei'istic of the well -formed bulb. 

 Even the six plants above referred to with the normal root-system, 

 which indeed had become so extensive that it made a heavy mat in 

 the bottom of the glass, produced nothing but a much-shriveled 

 flower stalk with the blooms wiltetl before they had an opportu- 

 nity to expand. In these cases, however, the leaves unfolded 

 quite normally. 



Although convinced that the bulbs were not worth keeping for 

 the purpose of floral display, I continued watching them, having 

 become interested in the formation of the new roots. Some of 

 these were particulai'ly thick and vigorous, and differed greatly in 

 appearance from those which are normally first formed. They 

 seemed to be a second crop of adventitious roots, the fii-st formal 

 also belonging to this category since they originate from mature 

 tissue of these metamorphosed stems. Some slender roots were 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 439 



also formed, but the thick roots were far the more numerous. On 

 one of the bulbs whose origiaaJ roots had all decayed and which 

 I had treated in the manner described above, thirty such roots had 

 made their appearance with not a single slender root among them 

 (Plate XIII, fig. 1). On the six healthy plants with normally 

 developed root-systems, some of these thick roots were to be found 

 after some time among the first formed more slender roots, and 

 both continued alive (figs. 2 and 3). 



Is this secondary formation the expression of a more vigorous 

 growth of the plant which follows with the expansion of the foliage, 

 or is it due to the greater need because of the increase of the tran- 

 spiring surfaces ? Perhaps both of these factors come into play as 

 they both bear a direct relation to root development — the foliage 

 depending entirely upon the absorbing action of the roots ; the roots, 

 in their turn, being the result of the protoplasmic activity of the 

 leaves. 



I endeavored to discover whether these roots differed in their 

 anatomical structure from those first formed. A great difference 

 was not to be expected, since roots, in general, are of very uniform 

 construction These organs seem particularly indisposed to varia- 

 tions in the relative positions and character of their elements. 



A cross section of an ordinary root showed the usual arrange- 

 ment — the epidermis, the cortical parenchyma, the endodermis, 

 and the central cylinder with its axillary bundle of fibrovascular 

 tissue, a little distorted, but witti a hexarch radial structure, the 

 six very small component bundles converging to the centre, and 

 separated from each other by a few interstitial cells (Plate XIII, 

 fig. 4). Further examination showed that there was some varia- 

 tion in the number of these bundles. In fig. 5 the bundles con- 

 verge toward two wide vessels, and a tendency to a diarch arrange- 

 ment is quite pronounced, the rays forming two more or less dis- 

 tinct masses. In a cross section of the thick roots near the base this 

 diarch arrangement was quite plain ; there are two distinct bands 

 of vascular tissue (fig. 7). 



The polyarch radial structure Avas striking in a cross section 

 about one and a half inches from the base and at this point 

 there was no trace of a diarch tendency. This is probably the re- 

 sult of later development. In this section are to be found ten 

 groups of vascular tissue, with a comparatively large quantity of 




440 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



undeveloped tissue in the centre (fig. 6). This is quite usual in 

 roots, the tissue in the centre remaining in an undeveloped state 

 for a time after the peripheral vessels are fully developed. Cross 

 sections such as shown in fig. 8 illustrate this point clearly. 

 The large circular spaces represent the lumina of vessels with as 

 yet unthickened walls. 



Comparison of the drawings will show to what extent these two 

 kinds of roots differed from each other in their histological ele- 

 ments. The greatest difference lies in the relative quantity and 

 development of the vascular tissue. On counting the number of 

 cells in the cortical parenchyma I found that, in the cross section 

 represented in fig. 4, that of the thread-like root, there were ten 

 layers of cells, while in the cross section represented by fig. 7, 

 that of a thick root, there were twenty cells in the corresponding 

 tissue, just double the number. Of course here also variations were 

 to be found, but this was an average. 



These thick roots were particularly good objects for the study of 

 root structure and development. They are easy to section and 

 show interesting variations in their radial symmetry. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 441 



July 3. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 

 Eight persons present. 



A paper entitled " Certain Antiquities of the Florida West 

 Coast," by Clarence B. Moore, was presented for publication. 



July 10. 



Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Eleven persons present. 



A paper entitled ' ' Additions to the Japanese Land-Snail Fauna, 

 No. II," by Henry A. Pilsbry, was presented for publication. 



The death of Wilfred H. Harned, a member. May 31, was an- 

 nounced. 



July 17. 



Mr. Benjamin Smith Lyman in the Chair. 



Six persons present. 



The death of Dr. John Ashhurst, Jr., a member, July 7, was 

 announced. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication: 

 " Notes on Certain Mollusca from Southwestern Arkansas," by 



Henry A. Pilsbry. 



" The Musculus cruciformis of the Order Telhnacea, " by H. 



von Ihering. 




442 proceedings of the academy of [1900. 



July 24. 



Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Seven persons present. 



A paper entitled " On the Zoological Position of Partula and 

 Achatinella and their Zoogeographical Significance," by Henry A. 

 Pilsbry, was presented for publication. 



July .31. 



Mr. UsELMA C. Smith in the Chair. 



Eleven persons present. 



A paper entitled " Description of a New Rabbit from Liu Kiu 

 Islands and a New Flying Squirrel from Borneo," by "Witmer 

 Stone, was presented for publication. 



A paper entitled " Certain Antiquities of the Florida West 

 Coast," by Clarence B. Moore, presented for publication the 3d 

 inst., was ordered to be printed in the Journal. 



The death of Franklin Piatt, a mepjber, the 24th inst., was an- 

 nounced. 



The following were ordered to be printed: 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 443 



ADDITIONS TO THE JAPANESE LAND SNAIL FAUNA. II. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



The discovery of the forms described herein is due to the well- 

 directed industry of Mr. Y. Hirase, of Kyoto, Japan, to whom 

 the Academy is indebted for many Japanese land snails. There 

 can be httle doubt that the land moUuscan fauna of Japan will 

 prove to be very prolific in specific forms, like most insular faunas. 



The Clausilias of Japan have been worked up by Dr. 0. Boett- 

 ger, who in his masterly Clausilietistudlen has laid a firm founda- 

 tion for future builders. Subsequent work has been done by 

 Kobelt, von Moelleudorff, Smith, Sykes and the present writer. 

 Arthur Adams' contribution to the literature of Japanese Clausi- 

 lias is, like all of his Japoniana, quite worthless. 

 Clausilia hakonensis n. sp. PL XIV, figs. 1, 2, 3. 



Shell rather slenderly fusiform, moderately attenuated above, 

 the earlier 3i whorls scarcely increasing in diameter, then gradu- 

 ally increasing to the penultimate whorl which is widest, the last 

 whorl being distinctly compressed and tapering. Whorls 12. 

 Reddish or olivaceous brown, paler below the sutures, glossy where 

 not eroded, distinctly, finely striated obliquely. Aperture subver- 

 tical or slightly oblique, ovate, the peristome continuous, white, 

 well expanded. Superior lamella strong, oblique, reaching the 

 margin, continuous with the spiral lamella, but becoming abruptly 

 lower at the junction. Inferior lamella converging to the superior, 

 strongly folded, rapidly tapering below, becoming verv high, stout 

 and very strongly spiral within. Subcolumellar lamella very 

 deeply immersed, not visible from the aperture. Principal plica 

 rather short; upper palatal plica short, oblique, passing into a 

 strong, curved lunella, which is connected below with the middle 

 of the rather short lower palatal plica, somewhat like a Greek 

 letter r inverted. 



Length 32, diam. of penultimate whorl 7 mm. ; length of ajjer- 

 ture 7.7, width 5 mm. 




444 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Hakone Mts. (B. Sclimacker), types No. 60.370, coll. A. N. 

 S. P. 



A Semiphcedusa, differing from all of the platydera group by 

 the strongly spiral and heavily developed inferior lamella and wholly 

 immersed subcolumellar lamella. The clausilium has the character- 

 istic parallel-sided contour of the section. C. hakonensis will 

 become the type of a new group or * ' Formenkreis ' ' in Hemi- 

 phcediisa, characterized by the strongly spiral, Stereo]) hcedusa-like 

 inferior lamella. 



Clausilia awajiensis n. sp. PI. XIV, figs. 15, 16, 17. 



Shell shortly rimate, obesely fusiform, thin, a little transparent, 

 strongly but shortly attenuated above, the last whorl decidedly 

 tapering. Corneous -brown; the last whorl reddish, glossy, dis- 

 tinctly, finely striate. Whorls 9^. Aperture small, pyriform, the 

 peristome Avhite, moderately expanded, rather thin. Superior 

 lamella rather thin, oblique, continuous Avith the spiral lamella. 

 Inferior lamella very low and inconspicuous, stronger within and 

 almosi vertically ascending. Subcolumellar lamella not reaching 

 the lip-edge, even immersed. Principal plica long, reaching 

 almost to the lip, extending inward beyond the lateral lunella. 

 Upper palatal j^lica very short, its outer end connected with a 

 rather strong, oblique lunella, recurved toward its lower end; no 

 lower palatal plica. Clausilium slender, tongue-shaped, emar- 

 ginate posteriori}"-, slowly tapering below. 



Length 12^, diam. 3^ mm. 



Fukura, Awaji Island (Mr. Y. Hirase). 



A Hemiphcedusa near C. aurantiaca Bttg. , but with fewer 

 whorls, the lunella more lateral, not I -shaped, a lower palatal 

 plica being absent. 



Clausilia subaurantiaca n. .sp. Pi. XIV, figs. 5, 6, 7. 



Shell slenderly fusiform, attenuated above, the last whorl rather 

 narrower; brown, but slightly glossy, weakly striate, more strongly 

 so on the last whorl. Whorls nearly 11, the upper convex, the last 

 two nearly flat. Aperture small, somewhat oblique, retracted and 

 with a well-marked sinulus above, pyriform, produced; peristome 

 thick, well reflexed. Superior lamella strong, oblique, continuous 

 with the spiral lamella. Inferior lamella immersed, inconspicuous 

 in a front view, becoming strong and subvertical within. Subcol- 




1900.] NATUEAL SCIE>XES OF PHILADELPHIA. 445 



umellar lamella very weak, not extendiug upon the expaasion of 

 the lip, or immersed. Plica principalis very long (the whorl out- 

 side a little swollen above it), extending nearly to the lip. Upper 

 palatal plica extremely short, united with the lateral, nearly straight 

 lunella; no lower palatal plica. Clausilium long, tongue-shaped, 

 somewhat tapering toward the blunt apex. 



Length 16, diam. 3 mm. 



Deyai, Prov. Nagato (Mr. Y. Hirase). 



This Hemiphcedusa differs from C. aurantiaca Bttg. by wanting 

 a lower palatal plica (which in C. aurantiaca makes an I-like 

 figure with the lunella and the upper palatal plica); by the 

 lateral, not ventral, position of the lunella, and the more slender 

 contour. C. aioajiensu is much more obese. 

 Clausilia aulacophora n. sp. PL XIV, figs. 18, 19, 20. 



Shell small, slender, moderately attenuated above, opaque, dull 

 reddish brown, paler above; finely striate, the last whorl more 

 coarsely so. Whorb 10, convex, the last short, compressed later- 

 ally, hardly narrower than the preceding, a little turgid below the 

 suture and at the base. Aperture small, pyriform, with well- 

 defined and slightly retracted sinulus. Peristome white, thick- 

 ened and well expanded, the outer margin excavated above. 

 Superior lamella strong, oblique, continuous with the spiral lamella, 

 and extending to the margin; a groove on the right side of it, 

 usually producing a notch or emarginalion in the upper margin of 

 the lip, and followed by a small rounded tubercle, to the right of 

 which there is sometimes a second shallow groove in adult shells. 

 Inferior lamella immersed, becoming strong and subvertical within. 

 Subcolumellar lamella completely immersed. Principal plica a 

 half whorl long, visible within the aperture. Upper palatal plica 

 short, continuous anteriorly with and curving into the lunella, 

 which is united with the middle of the lower palatal plica. There 

 is a punctiform plica below the latter. Clausilium long, tongue- 

 shaped, emarginate behind, the margins slowly converging toward 

 the apex, which is bluntly attenuated. 



Length 10, diam. 2.1 mm, 



Fukura, Awaji Island (Mr. Y. Hirase). 



Belonging to the Hemiphredusan group of C. platydera, as defined 

 by Dr. Boettger, this small species is well disiinguished by the 

 groove in the peristome on the right side of the superior lamella. 




446 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Clausilia Hirasei n. sp. PL XIV, figs. 8, 9, 10, 11. 



Shell small, solid, slenderly fusiform, regularly tapering above 

 to an obtuse apex; glossy, irregularly striate, chestnut brown. 

 Whorls 8-8^, rather weakly convex, the last two long, last whorl 

 somewhat narrower, compressed. Aperture small, rather rhombic; 

 peristome narrowly expanded, a little thickened. Superior lamella 

 low, separated widely from the spiral lamella. Inferior lamella 

 immersed, becoming strong and vertical within. Subcolumellar 

 lamella weak but emerging. Principal plica less than a half -whorl 

 long, extending well inward beyond the lateral lunelJa. Upper 

 palatal plica oblique, not united with the lunella, which is nearly 

 straight above, curved below. Three short sutural plicae are 

 developed above the upper end of the lunella, the second one 

 shortest, upper one low ; within the uj^per end of the spiral lamella 

 there is sometimes an inserted lamella (^lamella inserta), or perhaps 

 this is a recrudescence of the inferior lamella; and outside of it 

 there is a short fulcrum {lamella fulcrum, fig. 10, /./. ) and a 

 longer parallel lamella {lamella parallela, fig. 10, Z.j;.). 



Length 9.3, diam. 2.2, length of aperture 2.2 mm. 



Length 7.3, diam. 2.2 mm. 



Kagashima, Satsuma (Y. nirase). 



This is, so far as I know, the smallest Japanese Clausilia known. 

 Internally it has the straightly vertical inferior lamella of Hemi- 

 phcedusa, but in several fresh specimens opened I found no clau- 

 siliura. In the development of the sutural plicte it resembles C 

 hijperopUjx. The superior lamella is widely separated from the 

 spiral lamella, and there is a lamella inserta developed in some 

 examples. The internal complication is greater than in any other 

 Japanese species known to me. Fig. 10 of Plate XIV, is diagram- 

 matic. 



It is named in honor of Mr. Y. Hirase, of Kyoto, who has 

 brought to our knowledge a large number of interesting Japanese 

 land snails. 

 Clausilia hyperoptyx n. sp. PL XIV, figs. 12, 13, 14. 



Shell small, slender, moderately atteuu.ited above, glossy, of 

 a dark, rich reddish-chestnut color, finely and rather irregularly, 

 not deeply, striate, the last whorl densely and more deeply so. 

 Whorls S^, convex, the last more flattenel, a tritle narrower than 

 the preceding. Aperture ovate, the peristome thick, expanded, 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 447 



whitish at the edge. Superior lamella rather low, vertical, attain- 

 ing the margin, widely disconnected from the spiral lamella. In- 

 ferior lamella immersed, scarcely visible in a front view, strong 

 and vertical within. Subcolumellar lamella emerging, continued 

 to the edge of peristome. Principal plica about a half-whorl 

 long, visible within the aperture. Upper palatal plica very short, 

 slightly united with the nearly straight, oblique lunella, which is 

 lateral in position. Two short sutural plicse developed a little 

 further inward than the upper end of the lunella. Spiral lamella 

 and inferior lamella of equal length within, a rather long lamella 

 fulcrans and a lamella parallela developed, each standing free. 

 ClausiHum rather narrow, parallel -sided, bluntly tapering at 

 the apex. 



Length 10, diam. 2.2, length of aperture 2.1 mm. 



Loo Choo Islands (Mr. Y. Hirase). 



This slender, dark-colored HemipJuediosa is a beautiful little 

 species, distinguished by the two sutural plicae and the development 

 of a fulcrum and parallel lamella, as in C. Hirasei. It differs 

 from that species in the dark color, attenuated and concave spire, 

 stronger superior lamella, and various other details of the closing 

 apparatus. 



C. Hirasei and C. hyperoptyx form a new group of Hemi- 

 jihcedusa characterized as follows: 



Superior lamella widely separated from the spiral lamella ; a 

 fulcrum and jD^rallel lamella present ; sutural plica3 developed ; 

 upper palatal plica independent or united with the well-developed 

 lunella; no lower palatal plica. 



Just what relation this group holds to Dr. von Moellendorft's 

 group of C. sublunellata I do not know, but as he does not 

 describe the complicated closing apparatus I find in my species, I 

 presume it to be quite different. 

 Clausilia japonica var. surugae, n. v. PI. XIV, fig. 4. 



Similar to C. japonica but smaller, strongly attenuated above 

 for a longer distance, the aperture smaller with rather stronger 

 principal lamella; upper palatal fold shorter, the lower palatal 

 short or obsolete. 



Mikuria, Prov. Suruga (^Ir, Y. Hirase). 



Having examined some hundreds of specimens of C. japonica 

 from several localities, collected by Mr. Stearns, Mr. Hirase, 




448 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Prof. M. R. Gaines and others, I conclude that C. nipponensis is 

 hardly tenable as a variety. The gibbous penultimate and slender 

 last whorl occur sporadically among typical japonica. The size 

 varies a good deal in C. japonica, but the above- described variety 

 presents a peculiar and quite recognizable contour. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE XIV. 



Figs. 1-3. Clausilia hakonensis n. sp. Fig. 2, natural size. 



Fig. 4. Clausilia japo)iica var. surugce n. var. , natural size. 



Figs. 5-7. Clausilia subaurantiaca n. sp. 



Figs. 8-11. Clausilia Hirasei n. sp. Fig. 10, diagrammatic. 

 /., lunella; l.f., fulcrum or lamella fulcrans; li., 

 inferior lamella; I. p., parallel lamella; l.s., superior 

 lamella; l.sp., spiral lamella; p.p., principal plica; 

 jy.s., sutural plic?e; u.ji.j)', upper palatal plica. 



Figs. 12-14. Clausilia hyperopAyx n. sp. 



Figs. 15-17. Clausilia axvajiensis n. sp. 



Figs. 18-20. Clausilia aulacojjhora n, sp. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 449 



NOTES ON CERTAIN MOLLTJSCA OF SOUTHWESTERN ARKANSAS. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



During February of this year, Mr. James H. Ferriss explored 

 for laud shells the western tier of counties in Arkansas, from 

 about midway up the western boundary of the State to the south- 

 western corner. He also collected at Hardy, in the northeastern 

 portion of the State, and in some northeastern counties of Texas. 

 An account of the trip has been given by Mr. Ferriss,^ with a 

 catalogue of the species collected, accompanied by valuable notes 

 on the localities and habits of the several forms. The following 

 notes on a portion of the species may be regarded as supplemental 

 to his article, which should be consulted for the full list. 

 Helicina orbiculata tropica (Jan.). 



Denison, Tex. ; Rocky Comfort and Lanesport, Ark. 

 Polygyra leporina (Gld.). 



Horatio, Chapel Hill, Rocky Comfort and Hardy, Ark. ; 

 DeKalb and Mt. Pleasant, Tex. Nowhere in abundance. 



This species has especial interest from its intermediate position 

 between the sections Stenofrema and typical Polygyra. The struc- 

 ture of the basal lip clearly foreshadows what we find in P. hirsuta 

 uncifera or pilula; while the form of the parietal lamella shows 

 that the upper branch, which makes the parietal V-shaped in typi- 

 cal Polygyra, is merely a further development of the callous ridge 

 which runs from the lamella to the outer end of the lip in such 

 species as P. stenotrema. 

 Polygyra dorfeuilliana Lea. 



Throughout the western counties of Arkansas, from Polk county 

 south, and in the noi'theastern counties of Texas, this is an ex- 

 tremely abundant species, and the collection made by Mr. Ferriss 

 contains hundreds of specimens. The very widely umbilicateJ 

 form, with glossy base, var. sampsoni, did not occur, all the speci- 

 mens being more or less ribbed beneath and varying within wide 



1 miutilus, XIV, July, 1900. 

 29 




450 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



limits iu the size of the umbilicus. They are referable to what I 

 called var. percostata, but not so strongly sculptured as the types, 

 and in fact pretty well bridge the gap between ' ' percostata ' ' and 

 typical dorfeuilliana. 



Specimens were taken at the following localities: 



Hardy, Sharp county, northeastern Arkansas. Typical dorfeu- 

 illiana, none of the several hundred specimens having the wide 

 umbilicus of var. sampsoiii. Diam. 7^-9 mm. 



Mena, Polk county, Ark. Small specimens, 7 down to 6 mm. 

 diam. ; and varying from the typical form with comma-shaped 

 rimation to widely umbilicated, showing over a full whorl below; 

 more or less ribbed there. 



Hatton Gap, Polk county. 6h to 5f mm. ; umbilicus moderate 

 or ample. 



Horatio, Chapel Hill, Gilham and Cove, Sevier county. Simi- 

 lar to the last. 



Morris Ferry, Little River county. Ark. Similar to the pre- 

 ceding. 



Ultima Thule, Sevier county. Diameter varying from 7 to 8^ 

 mm. ; umbilicus variable, as in the Mena specimens. In copious 

 supply. 



Rocky Comfort, Little River county. Ark. Similar to the pre- 

 ceding lot. 



Denisou, Tex. Similar to preceding. 



It is rather peculiar that Polygyra jacksoni occurred during this 

 trip only at Mena, Polk county, Ark. Possibly its southeastern 

 limit does not reach the western counties of Arkansas below Polk. 

 Polygyra cragini (Call). 



Ultima Thule, Sevier county, in southwestern, and Mena, Polk 

 county, in western Arkansas, typical specimens. Also taken at 

 Hardy, Sharp county, iu northeastern Arkansas. 

 Polygyra inflecta (Say). 



Mena, Rocky Cove and Hatton Gap, Polk county; Horatio, 

 Sevier county; Morris Ferry, Little River county; all in south- 

 western Arkansas. Also at Little Rock in central and Hardy iu 

 northeastern Arkansas. Most of the specimens from Hattou Gap, 

 Horatio and Hardy are small, often under 10 mm. diam. Those 

 from Mena vary from 10 to 13 mm. This variation is merely 

 individual. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 451 



Polygyra binneyana Pilsbrv. 



The specimens collected fully confirm the specific characters of 

 this fine snail. "While rather variable, it does not approach any 

 known species. 



The largest examples sent were taken at Gilham, Sevier county, 

 Ark., and measure alt. 1-^, diam. 26 mm. ; the umbilicus is par- 

 tially overhung by the lip. The smallest seen from this locality is 

 23 mm. in diameter. All have 5^ whorls. Entirely similar 

 specimens come from Mena, in Polk county; but from the Chastat. 

 Mts., near Mena, the shells are smaller, alt. 10, diam. 19^, and 

 alt. 9, diam. 17^ mm. ; the smaller ones have not quite 5 whorls. 

 The size approaches that of Polygyra l-iowaensis arkmisaensls, but 

 the aperture, lip and sculpture are as in the typical binneyana., and 

 very unlike any form of kioivaensu. 



Folygjra. albolabris alleni (Wetherby). 



This Western subspecies extends from Iowa to southwestern 

 Arkansas. About 1885 I " planted " about a quart of li%nng 

 specimens from Des Moines, la., on the island of Rock Island, in 

 the Mississippi river, opposite Davenport, la., where the species 

 did not exist before. It does not occur in the vicinity of Daven- 

 port, nor around Iowa City, la. 



Ferriss' localities are Hardy, Sharp county ; ^Nlena, Polk county, 

 and Little Rock, Ark. The specimens from Hardy are as small 

 as var. maritima, 23-24 mm. diam., but in other characters are 

 typical alleni. Those from Mena are large, up to 30 mm. diam. ; 

 and in some cases the umbilicus is partially open, in apparently 

 mature shells. 



A single dead shell from Little Rock is more solid than most 

 <iUeni, with the basal lip broader, somewhat as in an undescribed 

 form from northern Alabama; but I think it only an old alleni. 



Polygyra appressa (Say). 



Finely developed specimens at Hardy, Sharp county, in north- 

 eastern Arkansas. They measure 18 to 20 mm. diam. Most 

 specimens have a small upper denticle on the lip (the mark of 

 " var. a " of Say), but I regard this as a merely individual vari 

 ation. 



Polygyra appressa perigrapta PHs. 



Typical specimens were taken at Little Rock, Ark 




452 PPvOCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Polygyra thyroides (Say). 



The variations of this species in the Southwest are extremely 

 perplexing. From the standpoint of the collector in the Ohio or 

 the uj)per Mississippi valley, the shells are small; but they are as 

 large as most Philadelphia specimens. 



It is obvious from an inspection of Mr. Ferriss' shells that 

 hucculenta Gld. is scarcely definable as a variety, although tbe 

 globose, narrowly perforate clausa-\\\ie shells, such as one lot from 

 Hardy, Ark., seem by themselves quite distinct. ]\Iany of the 

 other shells, such as those from Deuison and DeKalb, Tex., are 

 practically intermediate; and I can find neither geographic nor 

 conchological boundaries for bucculenta Avell enough defined to 

 warrant its retention. 



It i-emains to notice a small, rather depressed and decidedly red- 

 dish form, occurring at numerous localities in western Arkansas, 

 and slightly unlike any thyroides I have seen from other localities. 

 Specimens were sent from the following places: 



Hardy, Sharp county, in northeastern Arkansas. Three forms 

 collected: (a) P. thyroides, with flat lip, toothed parietal wall; 

 alt. 12-|, diam. 20 mm., or somewhat smaller. (6) Similar but 

 red, depressed and glossy, rather openly umbilicate; alt. 11, 

 diam. 19; alt. 10, diam. 16i mm. (c) Typical bucculenta, with 

 globose shell, narrow umbilicus, light color and rather rounded 

 lip; alt. 12, diam 17; alt. 11^, diam. 16 mm. Rocky Comfort, 

 Little River county. A form of thyroides with reduced or even 

 imperforate umbilicus, the parietal tooth small or wanting ; shape 

 normal, and size as in lot "a" from Hardy. Also four speci- 

 mens of the smaller, depressed, ruddy form mentioned above. 



Cove, Polk county. Small and very narrowly umbilicated 

 shells, diam. 15-17 mm., varying from yellowish- corneous to 

 reddish. They are too depressed for bucculenta. 



Ultima Thule, Sevier county. Similar to the shells from Cove; 

 rich reddish. 



Mena, Polk county. A single specimen of the small reddish 

 form was taken ; diam. barely 15 mm. 



DeKalb, Bowie county, Tex. Specimens intermediate between 

 thyroides and bucculenta. 



Denison, Grayson county, Tex. Specimens less globose than 

 typical bucculenta, but having the rounded (rather than flattened "i 




1900.] NATURAL SCTEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 453 



lip and narrow umbilicus of that form. Tliey vary from 17 to 

 20 mm. diameter. 

 Polygyra labrosa (Bid.). 



Little Rock, Ark. 

 I'olygyra stenotrema ('Fer.' Pfr.). 



Spur of Chastat Mts., near Mena, Ark.; Hardy, Ark. Size 

 varying from 9 to 10 mm. diam. ; form typical. 



Polygyra hirsuta uncifera n. var. 



Similar to P. hirsuta in general form; very densely hirsute 

 throughout, the hairs short, silvery; ixirietal lamella more sinuous, 

 recurved in a hook at the outer end ; basal lip formed much as in 

 var. pilida, the median sinus oblique, separating two irregular 

 nodules, the edge of the lip projecting above the notch ; outer lip 

 bearing a conical tooth. 



Alt. 5i^-6, diam. 8 mm. (types, Mena). 



Alt. 4.7, diam. 7 ram. (Chastat Mts., near Mena). 



Alt. 4, diam. 6 mm. (Chastat Mts., near Mena). 



Mena and the adjacent Chastat Mts., Polk county, western 

 Arkansas. Types, in the collection of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia and of James H. Ferriss. 



An extraordinary form, in which the parietal lamella is hookea 

 at the distal end, as in P. maxillaia, and the basal lip is pecu- 

 liarly modified. The "hook" is evidently homologous with the 

 upper branch of the parietal fold in the typical Polygyras, and 

 this form may fairly be regarded as to some extent a ti'ansition 

 form, at least in this one character. The group of small Poly- 

 gyras of the plicata-dorfeuilliana type have evident relationships 

 with Stenotrema, having a similar internal " fulcrum," and some 

 species being hairy. 



In this connection it might be mentioned that the single "West 

 Coast species, P. germana, usually referred to the subgenus Steno- 

 trema, is in my opinion much more closely allied to the P. Colum- 

 biana group, and might better be grouped therewith. Binney, 

 however, has pointed out its peculiarly intermediate character. 



The varieties of P. hirsuta now known, j5i7u^a, altispira and 

 uncifera, are remarkably distinct ; no iutergradatiou with the typi- 

 cal form has yet been observed in any of them. In fact, typical hir- 

 suta is much closer to P. stenotrema than to the varieties mentioned. 




454 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



The small series of var. uncifera collected by Ferriss show that 

 it has a smaller form on high ground. This peculiarity has been 

 noticed in other species, such as P. hirsuta and P. monodon, which 

 may have a small and a large form on higher and lower ground 

 respectively, in the same region. 

 Polygyra monodon (Rack.). 



This species was originally described from near Thunder Bay, 

 Lake Huron. This is in Alpena county, Mich. The type, as 

 well figured in the Llnnean Transactions, was undoubtedly what 

 became known later as "Helix {Stenotreina') leai Ward" — a 

 small, widely umbilicated shell, which many collectors have con- 

 sidered to be a distinct species from the traditional monodon, and 

 which is confined to the middle West, north of the Ohio river and 

 west to Iowa. 



This state of affairs renders a rearrangement of the nomenclature 

 necessary. H. leai will be deleted from the roll of valid species, 

 and its place usurped by P. monodon, which name will henceforth 

 be used for the small, glossy, widely umbilicated shells formerly 

 known as leai. 



The larger, more hirsute form now universally known as mono- 

 don will become P. monodon fraterna (Say). This subspecies is 

 far more widely distributed than the true monodon. It varies 

 from as widely umbilicated as monodon to quite imperforate. The 

 widely umbilicated forms are chiefly northern, especially in western 

 New York. 



In the Little Tennessee river valley the much-depressed, umbili- 

 cated subspecies cinda Lewis occurs. 



In the Southwest, from western Arkansas and Louisiana to 

 southern Texas, several ill-defined races occur. Var. alicice is a 

 small form, 8-9 mm. diam., with narrow umbilical chink, more 

 or less globose contour and 5^ whorls. Var. friersoni is larger, 

 the size of well -developed northern fraterna, with 6 whorls and 

 an umbihcal chink. Both of these have the umbilical region 

 deeply impressed. The propriety of separating them from var. 

 fraterna or from one another is open to question, and requires more 

 study; but it must be said that the series of some hundreds col- 

 lected by Mr. Ferriss can be assorted without grave difficulty, and 

 the two forms, allciie and friersoni, coexist in numerous lowilitie?, 

 just as typical >/ici?todon {"leai") and /ra<er/ia do in the North. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 455 



However, I do not consider either of these varieties to have any- 

 thing hke the standing the several varieties of P. hirsuta have, and 

 their discrimination may be an unnecessary refinement. 



Then we have a third form of monodon which I shall call var. 

 imperforata, collected by Mr. Ferriss at Mena, Cove and Rocky 

 Comfort, Ark., apparently living with var. friersoni. It has 5|- 

 whorls, an elevated spire, much less swollen, rather flattened base, 

 which is very little imjrressed or sunken in the centre, is imperforate, 

 and has scarcely a trace of the flange along the basal lip so 

 prominent in fully adult //-ter^wa'. The pile is harsh to the touch, 

 and the surface without lustre. Although I may have overdone 

 the naming of monodon varieties, I do not see how to avoid distin- 

 guishing this race by name. It is by all odds the most distinct of 

 the southwestern varieties, and apparently is confined to the rough, 

 mountainous country. Types from Rocky Comfort, Ark. 



The following forms of monodon were taken by Ferriss: 



Mena, Polk county, Ark. Var. imperforata Pils. Rather 

 globose, imperforate^ shells, 8|- to 10 mm. diam., remarkable for 

 having the umbilical region very little impressed. Whorls b^ to 

 6. Pile rather stiff, 



Horatio, Sevier county, Ark. Var. alieice. Two small speci- 

 mens, diam. 8 mm., with narrow perforation and short, straight 

 parietal tooth, as in typical monodon, though this may indicate 

 immaturity; 5^ whorls. The spire is only moderately raised. 



Ultima Thule, Sevier county, Ark. Small shells, 8-8^ mm. 

 diam., with 5|— 5f whorls, the spire more or less conoid, umbilicus 

 narrow, nearly closed, the umbilical region impressed. The speci- 

 mens are referable to the form I called var. alieice. 



Cove, Polk county. Three of four specimens taken are the 

 variety imperforata, with scarcely impressed umbilical region, 

 mentioned from Mena. The other is an ordinary friersoni with 

 partially open umbilicus. 



Rocky Comfort, Little River county. Three forms occurred at 

 this place : (a) Var. impjerforata, the imperforate shells with 

 elevated spire, scarcely impressed umbilical region and rather 

 harsh pile mentioned above as occurring at ]\Iena. (6) Small 

 specimens such as those described above from Ultima Thule, refer- 

 able to var. alieice; 54 specimens, (c) Large specimens with 

 deeply impressed umbilical region and 6 whorls, diam. 9-10^ mm., 

 referable to var. friersoni. 




456 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



DeKalb, Bowie county, northeast Texas. Var. friersoni, 5 

 specimens. Var. alicice, 20 specimens. 



Mt. Pleasant, Titus county, Tex. Var. alicice, one specimen. 

 Pupoides marginatus (Say). (Leucocheila fallax Xnct.). 



Cerro Gordo, Sevier county, and Cove, Polk county, Ark. 



Bifidaria armifera (Say). 



DeKalb, Tex., and Hardy, Ark. 

 Bifidaria contracta Say. 



Cove, Polk county. Ark. 

 Vitrea simpsoni (Pils.). 



Hardy, Mena, Hatton's Gap and Morris Ferry, Ark. The first 

 locality is further east than it has before been reported. 

 Conulus cliersinus troohulus Reinh. 



Cerro Gordo and Hatton's Gap, Ark. 

 Gastrodonta demissa (Binney). 



Two southwestern races of this species have received names: 

 var. hritisi, an imperforate form, and var. lamellata, which has an 

 internal lamina, like G. gularis. It must freely be confessed that 

 the abundant series collected by !Mr. Ferriss show these forms to 

 intergrade to a perplexing extent, and it is not easy to define 

 them. Both toothed and toothless forms apparently come from 

 the same log; although the fact remains that, except in this partic- 

 ular region, demissa is not toothed. Gastrodontas are, however, 

 proverbially difficult to classify ; they defy our neat, conventional 

 arrangements of species and subspecies, and proclaim the eternal 

 sway of variation. We name them as we can, and have trouble 

 when the intermediate forms have not become extinct. At all 

 event?, the varieties of demissa I have erected should not be esti- 

 mated too highly. 



Mena, Polk county. Ark. 16 specimens of the britUi type; 

 the largest 9 mm. diam. ; imperforate or barely perforate. 



Thirty specimens of the lamellata type, the largest 8^ mm. 

 diam.; narrowly perforate; lamella varying from well developed 

 to a heavy callous lump. 



Seventeen specimens with no lamella, 9^ mm. diam., 6 alt.; 7 

 whorls. 



Hatton Gap, Polk county. II spocimsns of Iwnellata, the 

 la-gest 8 mm. diam. Also 33 specimens of demissa, up to 9 noim. 

 diam. ; perforate. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 457 



Cove, Polk county. Both laminate and toothless specimens. 



Ultima Thule, Sevier county. 17 specimens of the var. brittn. 

 These approach the typical G. aeerra in general appearance, but 

 are imperforate. Whorls 7; alt. 8^ to 9, diam. 13^ mm. The 

 var. lamellata also occurred at Ultima Thule. 



Horatio, Sevier county. Both the lamellate form and toothless 

 demissa of all ages. 



Chapel Hill, Sevier county. 26 var. lamellata and 18 demissa,' 

 the largest having 7 whorls, alt. 6, diam. 9.8 mm. All per- 

 forate. 



Gilham, S3vier county. Bjth lamellata and demissa. 



Pyramidula alternata (Say). 



Mena, Polk county; Horatio, Sender county; Rocky Comfort, 

 Little River county, and Hardy, Sharp county, Ark. Specimens 

 all rather strongly ribbed. The var. rarinotata occurred at Deni- 

 son, Tex., further north than it has hitherto been noticed. The 

 western Arkansas shells ai-e the opposite of the middle Texas vari- 

 ety, being unusually dark and copiously maculated. 



Limnsea desidiosa Say. 



Hardy, Sharp county. Ark. 



Ancylus rivularis Say. 

 Ancylus haldemani Bgt. 



A few specimens of each from Hardy, Sharp county, Ark. 



Physa gyrina Say. 



Hardy, Sharp county, northeastern Arkansas. 

 Thysa Integra Hald., var. 



Hardy, Sharp county, Ark. ; Mt, Pleasant, Titus county, Tex. 

 The specimens are small, and of the variety with a dark-brown 

 ^ip-rib. 



Pleurocera elevatum (Say). Fig. 1, upper line. 



Spring river, Hardy, Sharp county, northeastern Arkansas. 

 Extremely variable, in color being yellow, banded, or almost 

 black; and varying from nearly smooth to singly or doubly calci- 

 nated above the sutures, the last whorl with a slight peripheral keel or 

 two or three acute keels, as in the variety lewisii Lea. The speci- 

 mans are unasuallv b3autifal and whollv free from erosion. 




458 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1900. 



Pleurocera subulare (Lea). 



More slender and smoother than elevatum, with which it occurs 

 at Hardy. Spring river flows into Black river, a tributary of the 

 White river. 



Goniobasis plebeius (Anth.). Fig. l, lower line. 



Spring river, Hardy, Sharp county, northeastern Arkansas. 

 The specimens show the usual variation from almost rounded 

 through angulate to strongly keeled at the periphery; the unicol- 

 ored examples of the carinated end of the series being indistin- 

 guishable from G. cubicoides (Anth.), which is a mere synonym. 

 The carina, when present, may either project at the sutures or 

 merely fill them, leaving an even surface. These variations of 

 form occur in the young as well as in adult examples, some half- 

 grown shells being almost rounded at the periphery. 



Nearly all the specimens from Hardy are straw-colored, with a 

 blackish band above the periphery and another in the middle of 

 the basal slope; sometimes the upper band or both of them are 

 absent; and in one or two shells the whole surface is dark save for 

 the pale carina. The columella is usually dark-stained at the 

 root, but occasionally white throughout. The apices are not 

 eroded. 



The series from Hardy is so interesting in its variations that I 

 reproduce here photographs of the leading forms. 



l444Mii 



JJippeT line, Pleurocera elevatum. Lower Hue, Goniobasis plebeius. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 459 



The vast amount of variation among individuals living side by 

 side, under absolutely identical external conditions, is an inexpli- 

 cable characteristic of the Pleuroeerid(e. This variation is gener- 

 ally in the line of retention by the shell of characters of extreme 

 youth or immaturity (carination, costation or other sculptural 

 feature) into mature life, or the early loss of sculpture, leaving a 

 plain, rounded last whorl. This particular phase of variation 

 stands on quite a different basis from that of lo, in which the or- 

 nate forms are farthest removed from the young stages, the spines 

 of the later whork being apparently a new and lately acquired 

 character, which has not had time to become impressed upon the 

 young. 




460 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



DESCRIPTIONS OF A NEW RABBIT FROM THE LIIT KIT! ISLANDS AND A 

 NEW FLYING SQUIRREL FROM BORNEO. 



BY WITMER STONE. 



Several mammals collected in the East Indies and adjacent 

 islands have recently been submitted to me for examination for 

 the Wistar Institute of Anatomy. 



Two of these prove to be of exceptional interest and are, so far 

 as I can ascertain, undescribed. 



The first is a rabbit obtained on the Liu Kiu Islands by Dr. W". 

 H. Furness and Dr. H. M. Hiller, February 26, 1896. 



It would naturally be expected that a rabbit from this locahty 

 would prove to be allied to the Japanese Lepus brachyurus, but 

 curiously enough the two specimens before me represent a species 

 of the genus Cajirolagus, and are apparently nearest to C. hispidiis 

 of Assam. 



The larger of the two specimens may be regarded as the type 

 (No. 5,314, collection AVistar Institute) of a new species which I 

 propose to name in honor of its discoverer. 



Caprolagus furnessi n. sp. 



Size approximately that of Lepm americap.m. Hind foot, tail 

 and ears remarkably short, claws very large and strong, nearly 

 straight on the fore feet, decidedly curved on the hind feet. 



Color very dark for a rabbit. Soft under-fur plumbeous, long 

 hair coarse and hispid, brownish black, many with buff annula- 

 tions or tips, becoming mahogany on the rump and brighter yel- 

 lowish brown on the feet (except about the base of claws) and 

 tail. The long hairs on both tail and feet retain their bristly char- 

 acter. From the hind neck to the beginning of the mahogany 

 shade on the rump there is a jet-black longitudinal band. Under 

 parts with stiff haii-s fewer and mostly pale buff, the gray under- 

 fur'more prominent, giving a general plumbeous hue to the pelage. 




1900.] XATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 461 



The cranial characters agree pretty closely with those of Capro- 

 lagus hlspidus as described and figured by Blyth.^ 



Skull strong and solid, incisive foramina short and narrow 

 (length 18 m7n. ), terminating fully 3 mm. anterior to the ante- 

 rior margin of alveolus of first premolar. Bony palate corre- 

 spondingly .produced fully as long as broad (length 12.5 mm.). 

 Bony network over the anteorbital foramina entirely coalesced and 

 solid. Nasals very broad and solid, line of juncture with f ren- 

 tals exactly opposite anterior margin of orbit and on line with 

 posterior edge of second premolar. Supraoccipital process very 

 short with no anterior projection, the usual notch in front of it 

 being entirely absent ; frontals scarcely constricted, the width 

 behind supraorbital processes being equal to the interorbital width 

 (20 mm.). 



Teeth strong and heavy, and no trace whatever of the small 

 posterior upper molar. 



In the lower jaw the anterior extension of the mandibles sup- 

 porting the incisors is somewhat slender, and there is a distinct 

 hump or bidge in the lower contour just anterior to the first pre- 

 molar. 



The measurements of this specimen are as follows : 



Total length of flat skin, 550 mm. 



Ear, 42 mm. 



Hind foot, 97 mm. 



Tail vertebrae (approximate), 8 mm. 



Length of whiskers, 50 to 65 mm. 



Length of skull (occipito-nasal), 88 mm. 



Zygomatic breadth (minimum), 40 mm. 



Interorbital breadth, 20 mm. 



Length of nasals, 31 mm. 



Length of upper molar series (alveoli), 15 mm. 



Another example (No. 5,315, Wistar Inst. Coll.) is apparently 

 smaller and has the mahogany tints suffused over the whole back, 

 with many of the hairs on the sides and shoulders light yellowish 

 brown, giving it a much brighter richer coloration. The black 

 dorsal stripe in this specimen is not quite so pronounced. 



With only the skins and skull at my disposal, I am unable to 

 describe the clas'icles in this interesting animal, but from the many 



* Journal Asiatic Society of Bengal, XIV, p. 247. 




462 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



other peculiarities exhibited by it I regard the genus Caprolagu-s 

 as established by Blyth in 1845 as quite worthy of recognition. 



In 1896 Dr. Merriam established the genus Roynerolagu.s^ for a 

 peculiar little rabbit from Mt. Popocatapetl, Mexico, many of the 

 characters being parallel to those of Caprolagns as described by 

 Blyth fifty years before. While in no way questioning the valid- 

 ity of Bonierolagus, we must take exception to Dr. Merriam's state- 

 ment that " Heretofore the genus Lepv.s has enjoyed the distinc- 

 tion of coincidence in characters with the family to which it 

 belongs." Flower and Lydekker also seem to have totally over- 

 looked Cajjrolagus in making their diagnosis of the family Lepo- 

 ridce. The family characters must certainly be modified and we 

 must recognize three distinct genera: 



Lepus ; 



Caprolagus Blyth, 1845; 



BomerolagiLS Merriam, 1896. 



Three species of Caprolagus are now known: 



C hispidus (Pearson), Bengal Sporting Magazine, August, 

 1843, p. 131 (fide Blyth). 



C. netscheri (Schlegel), Notes Leyden Mm., February, 1880, 

 p. 59; 



C. furnessi Stone, antea. 



The other apparent nondescript in the Wistar Institute collec- 

 tion is a flying squirrel obtained by Messrs. Alfred Harrison, Jr., 

 and H. M. Hiller on the Menbuang river, Sarawak, Borneo, Jan- 

 uary, 1898 (No. 5,298). 



Notwithstanding the numerous species of Seiuropterus that have 

 been described from this region the present specimen seems to 

 dififer from all, so far as I can judge from the descriptions, though 

 lack of material for comparisou is much to be regretted. 



This species is dedicated to Mr. Harrison, whose researches in 

 Borneo have resulted in most valuable zoological collections. 



Soiuropterus harrisoni n. sp. 



Size and general appearance similar to 5. horsfieldi, S. thomsoni, 

 etc., but distinguished at once by the uniform dull brown of the 

 tail on both the upjjer and under surfaces. 



^Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Vol. X, pp. 169-174. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 463 



The general appearance above is bright rusty red, darker and 

 more inclined to chestnut than in S. davisoni.^ This color extends 

 from the nose to the root of the tail, the dark blackish plumbeous 

 bases to the hair everywhere show through, the rust color being 

 confined to the tips. The sides of the face are paler and there is 

 a black ring around the eye. Flight membranes black, the hairs 

 tipped with white or very pale buff, passing gradually into the 

 rusty color as they approach the body, outer edge of the mem- 

 branes white. Ears triangular, with a sparse covering of black 

 hairs on the outside. Feet with scattered blackish hairs. Lower 

 surface dull white; cheeks, throat and sides of abdomen tinged 

 with rufous. Under side of membranes dull blackish with pale 

 rufous tips to the hairs. 



Tail pale buff or fawn color at the base, below; otherwise en- 

 tirely uniform dull brown above and below; decidedly distichous and 

 tapering somewhat from root to tip. '' Whiskers " long — 50 to 

 70 mm. ; one or two short cheek bristles, no tufts at base of ears. 

 Incisors orange. 



Length of skin, 360 mm. 



Length of tail, 170 mm. 



Hind foot, 30 mm. 



I wish to acknowledge my indebtedness to the collectors and 

 to Dr. Horace Jayne, Director of the Wistar Institute, for the 

 privilege of examining these specimens. 



3 Figured in P. Z. S., 1886, PI. VI. 




464 proceedings of the academy of [1900. 



August 14. 

 Mr. Benjamin Smith Lyman in the Chair. 

 Eight persons present. 



A paper entitled, "Lower California Species of Coelocentrum 

 and Berendtia, " by Henry A. Pilsbry, was presented for publi- 

 cation. 



The Raubsville Cave. — Mr. Benjamin Smith Lyman, refer- 

 ring to a communication made at a previous meeting by Mr. Lewis 

 Woolmau but not reported, remarked that the Carpenter Cave, 

 three-fourths of a mile northwest of Raubsville and three miles 

 south of Easton, Pa., was discovered a few years ago in quarrying 

 limestone near a hilltop about four hundred feet above sea-level 

 and over two hundred feet above the Delaware. It seems to be 

 at the axis of an anticlinal, for at the north side of the quarry 

 the dip is 20° northerly, and some three hundred yards nearly 

 eastward the dip is perhaps 45° southerly, while half a mile east- 

 ward, at the Delaware, both north and south dips are very gentle, 

 and the antichnal sinks easterly. The explored part of the cave, 

 perhaps one hundred and fifty yards east from the entrance, is a 

 mainly straight, east-and-west, nearly vertical, roughly broken 

 fissure, or series of fissures, up to some ten feet in width, with 

 occasional blocks of stone lodged between the walls; and exactly 

 resembles the original, yet unfilled fissures of many ore veins. The 

 water from the small drainage surface above has but slightly 

 deposited stalactites and stalagmites, and the walls are partly bare 

 and angular, according to their inclination. Xo human traces 

 have been found in the cave; but reported traces of small animals 

 and the excellent ventilation indicate that there must be some 

 natural opening into the cave, though none has yet been found. 

 It is one of the numerous caverns that Lesley* has shown to have 

 aided in effecting, by solution rather than by abrasion, the great 

 lowering of the neighboring limestone region that has evidently 

 taken place since glacial times. Xo undisturbed glacial traces 

 have persisted, or perhaps ever existed hereabouts. Glacial boul- 

 ders are found four miles southward, but it is not clear they were 

 not wiiterborne, possibly on ice-cakes, from the great terminal 

 moraine twenty miles to the north. 



The following were ordered to be publishel : — 

 ^ State Geological Report, D3. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 465 



THE STRUCTURE OF THE DIATOM GIRDLE. 

 BY THOMAS CHALKLEY PALMER AND F. J. KEELEY. 



Usually the girdle of the diatom is easily separated from the 

 valve to which ic pertains. A strewn mount of cleaned diatoms 

 will show most of the girdles so separated. If any doubt as to the 

 structural distinction between valve and girdle were possible previ- 

 ously, Printz removed it, so far as the large forms of Navicula 

 were concerned, by his study of sections. ^ The girdle, therefore, 

 is understood to be, not a part of the valve, but a closed hoop of 

 silica, more or less narrow, wedged into the rim of the valve or 

 otherwise held in place not very firmly. Deby even asserts that 

 in the case of many species old girdles are "caducous" and 

 detach themselves spontaneously. The account' which this author 

 gives of the process of multiplication by cell-division — an account 

 agreeing in the main with the views of diatomists in general — 

 implies a rapid and necessary decrease in size as an inevitable I'esult. 

 So also Pfitzer' and, following him, most writers on diatoms. 

 The closed hoop structure is taken as typical of the whole family 

 by such recent writers as F. Schuett^ and George Karsteu,^ the 

 former of whom, discoursing upon the " Zwischenbaender " of 

 O. Mueller, remarks: " . . . . die Zwischenbaender sind .... 

 nach Art der Guertelbaender a/s geschlos-sene Ringe ausgebildet, und 

 erscheinen dann als secuudaere Guertelbaender, oder," etc. ; and 



^W. Printz: "Etudes snr coupes de diatomees observees dans les lames 

 minces de la roche de Nykjobing," Brussells, 1880. 



^J. Deby: " Ce que c'est qu'une Diatomee?" Soc. B. de Microscopie, 

 Bruxellep.'lSTT. 



^E. Pfitzer: " Untersuchungen ueber Bau und Entwickelnng der Bacil- 

 lariaceen," Bonn, 1871. Also, "Die Bacillariaceen," EncyMopaedie der 

 Xatunrlssenschoften. Botanik, II, p. 435, where the matter is thus tersely 

 expressed: ". . . . bei jeder Theilung die groessere der beiden eutstehenden 

 Tochterzellen genau eben so laug ist, als die Mutterzelle war, waehrend die 

 andere etwa um die doppelte Dicke des Guertelbandes kuerzer ist." 



*F. Schuett: " Bacillariacese." EnglerandPrantrsP/?an2e7i/a«it7i€w, 1, 1, 

 b., p. 39, 1896. 



* George Karsten: "Die Diatomeen der Kieler Bucht," Wisienschaftliche 

 Meeresuntersuchungen, Yieiter Baud., 1899. 



30 




466 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



the latter simply takes the closed ring structure for granted. This 

 structure being admitted, the deduction as to progressive decrease 

 in size is undoubtedly sound. In point of fact, wide variations 

 in size do, in the case of a vast number of species, occur continu- 

 ally. In filamentous forms it would appear that a decrease does 

 occur step by step with the process of reduplication. Yet facts are 

 not wanting that do not agree altogether with the theory. The 

 demonstration has seemed to demonstrate too much. " If the 

 matter is as simj^le as Mr. Deby has made it out to be, ' ' writes 

 Van Heurck, " sexual reproduction would be very frequently 

 observed, which, however, is not the case."^ Possit)ly what is 

 meant here is not exclusively sexual reproduction, that is to say 

 conjugation (which does not, in the algre, wait upon decrease in 

 size), but also rejuvenescence of the cell by auxospore formation. 



The scarcity of auxospores in Melosira and similar forms, com- 

 pared with the number theoretically called for, is one of the strik- 

 ing facts in this connection. The details of the process of redu- 

 plication were therefore studied exhaustively by Otto Mueller' in 

 the case of a single species of the genus. The study culminated 

 in the celebrated " law of Mueller," a statement of the sequence 

 of events in the growth of this pai-ticular species, which shows 

 why it is that after forty-thi-ee successive reduplications there is 

 but one auxospore in place of the 1,052,100,000,000 which ought 

 to produce themselves according to the theory of plain geometrical 

 subdivision. 



Studies of the character of this upon Melosira arenaria are not 

 so plentiful that we should desire to do aught but award it the high 

 appi'eciation which is its just due, and which it has compelled 

 from diatom students in general. 



We must, however, be allowed to remark that it has yet to be 

 shown that the sequence of events is the same in all species; and, 

 further, that it is not quite certain, as will appear later, that even 

 the fundamental structure of the silicious parts is the same in all 

 the genera and species of the diatoms. 



In all the literature upon diatoms with which we are familiar 



^H. Van Henrck: Treatise on the Diatomacece. English translation by 

 W, E. Baxter, London. 1896. 



^ " Die Zellhaut und dea Gesetz der Zelltheiluag folge von Melosira are- 

 naria Moove,^ ' Berlin, 1883, 




I 



1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 467 



there is noticeable a curious tendency to neglect the structure of 

 the girdle, to take for granted that it is everywhere the same, and 

 that it is typically a closed hoop.^ Only in the Lauderiinse and 

 Rhizosoleniin?e, which include the genera Lauderia, Guinardia, 

 Rhizosolenia, Dactyliosolin, and one or two others, is any other 

 structure figured or described ; and in those cases a distinction is 

 made by calling the numerous girdles either annulse or interbands. 

 In short, the girdles here are considered non-typical and peculiar. 

 ^ Peculiar in certain aspects they may be. But that either these 

 "annulse" or the " Zwischenbaender " in other genera, differ 

 from the usual girdle in being incomplete hoops is a proposition 

 we dare to call in question. Our theme may be stated thus : The 

 closed hoop structure is unusual. With some very important excep- 

 tions, the girdle is a two-ended band of silica, with the ends vari- 

 ously and characteristically rounded or otherwise modified, and 

 approximated or overlapping without being joined. The position of 

 the gap or joint is, within limits, constant in a given genus with 

 relation to salient features of the valves. In case of each simple 

 pair of primary girdles, the two gaps are usually at opposite points 

 of the diatom; and in general, in the forms we have studied, the 

 gaps are normally so situated with respect to each other as to 

 " lap joints." 



In calling attention to a fact at once so elementary and fun- 

 damental, and so in opposition to views generally held, we could 

 desire to present a large number of particulars. But we cannot 

 claim the merit of setting forth at this time the results of any 

 adequate study of the girdle. The field is vast, and the difficulties 

 are various. We content ourselves now with the presentation of 

 certain typical examples, mainly or almost exclusively among the 

 larger forms. It seems, indeed, almost or quite safe to infer the 

 main structure of the girdles of minute species from the main 

 structure of those of larger species in the same genus. 



The facts presented are almost all morphological and static, and 

 so, however incomplete in some respects, they have the advantage 

 of being easily verified by any student of the Diatomacere. Oui 

 observations have been primarily among the Pennatse, and first of 



' This is by no means to ignore the " Zwischenband " developments of Otto 

 Mueller and F. Schuett. But, as we have shown, the latter authority at least 

 implies the closed-ring girdle structure. The " Zwischenband " is somewhat 

 apart from our present subject, which confines itself to girdles proper. 




468 PEOCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



all in the genus Surirella. It therefore seems necessary to begin 

 with this genus — a genus that partakes of some of the character- 

 istics of both Pennatte and Centric^. Especially in the location 

 of the girdle gap would Surirella seem to be anything but a typi- 

 cal member of the Pennatse, Following this we shall consider the 

 Pennatae, and lastly certain typical Centricse. 



SURIEELLA. 



It Avas a study of a pure and very large gathering of Surirella 

 elegans Ehrenb. that first drew our attention to the real structure 

 of the girdle. The diatom was found in greatest abundance, prac- 

 tically free from other forms and from inert matter, in a shaded 

 rill of cold water during the month of August. It formed a dark- 

 brown or even blackish patch upon the bottom, about a foot in 

 diameter and more than a fourth of an inch deep. Several ouuces 

 of purest material were dipped up and placed in bottles. Some 

 of the gathering remained in good living condition for four 

 months. A part was boiled in strong nitric acid, and mounts were 

 made in balsam. Girdles separated from their valves were plenti- 

 ful in these preparations. Many girdles were broken into several 

 pieces, but many more were uninjured. Those latter, however, 

 always showed an opening that was not a break. Thougli sep- 

 arated from their valves, the girdles remained in general bent 

 neai'ly as when attached. In every case, with absolutely no real 

 exception, the gap was on one of the flat sides of the oval, and 

 mostly not far from a point midway of the length. This was true 

 of all the girdles, of whicli there were two main types observable. 

 The first of these is the mature girdle, mostly broad and thick ; 

 and the second is the young or immature, narrow and thin. The 

 latter kind, in addition to the gap, showed also, at a point nearly 

 opposite, a little stem or cleat of silica, in shape somewhat like an 

 hour-glass, extending at right angles from the edge to a distance 

 equal to or greater than the breadth of the girdle itself. This 

 cleat was absent in older, or what may be called primary, girdles. 

 The gathering was, and long remained, rather quiescent as resi>ect3 

 reduplication, and successive preparations continued to show the 

 two kinds of girdles with practically no intermediate gradations. 

 These two kinds are i-epreseuted at d and c, fig. 1, PI. XV. It 

 being manifestly impossible to uudei"stand the relations of these 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 469 



girdles to each other and to the valves vrhen the elements were in 

 this state of dislocation, preparations were made with parts in situ 

 hy burning the crude frustules upon cover-glasses and mounting 

 dry and in balsam. 



Persistent study of all those preparations, as well as of li^'ing 

 frustules and mounts made by other preparers, has, most unfortu- 

 nately, left many points still obscure. Yet we are able to present 

 the following definitely ascertained facts. 



^ The complete frustule, in this gathering, shows first of all two 

 broad and thick primary girdles, the inner and the outer. Each 

 of these exhibits a gap between its approximated ends, substan- 

 tially as shown in diagram c, fig. 1, PI. XV. 



These gaps are on opposite sides of the diatom in every case 

 observed by us; and while the exact location varies, it is always 

 between the smaller end and the middle point of the length. 



Long before there is any other evidence of coming reduplication, 

 two secondary girdles^ make their appearance, one for each of the 

 primary girdles. One of these extends as a narrow, thin band 

 around the edge of the outer primary, and projects a cleat through 

 the opening in the primary, attaching itself thereby to the outer 

 valve. This outer secondary girdle shows in optical section at the 

 end of the diatom, as if attached to the inner edge of the primary. 

 At the same time, upon the edge of the inner primary girdle 

 appears in hke manner a secondary growth, with cleat extending 

 through the opening in the primary to the inner valve. But in 

 optical section, at the end of the diatoni, this inner secondary 

 appears as an outward thickening, as if attached to the outer edge 

 of the primary. We have, therefore, now four girdles, the two 

 primary and the two secondary, for each pair of valves. Dia- 

 grams of these pai'ts, separated and in contact with each other, 

 are included in fig 1, PI. XV. 



That which arrests attention is, that the inner secondary girdle 

 apparently overlaps the inner primary. If these secondary girdles 

 are, by any possibility, destined to become primary girdles in the 

 daughter-cells, the arrangement as described will admit of but two 

 results: either the new valve will attach itself to the new girdle, 

 the old valve remaining as before the inner or smaller valve of the 

 two, or, on the other hand, the new valve may join to the old girdle, 

 which parts from the old valve and is replaced by the new girdle. 




470 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



But that the secondary girdles do develop and function in either of 

 these ways is what we have been quite unable to prove. It is next 

 to impossible to trace the disposition of parts in a frustule of 

 Surirella after the two new valves have formed and before the 

 daughter- cells have parted company. We can only say that we 

 have looked carefully, but hitherto in vain, for any evidence of 

 the growth of new girdles from the young valves of. Surirella 

 elegans in accordance with orthodox views. In some other genera 

 we have observed facts that seem to indicate that similar secondary 

 girdles, formed before the young valves, broaden and lose their 

 cleats, becoming finally indistinguishable from primary girdles. In 

 the case of Surirella we are more in doubt, and we desire to pursue 

 the subject further. As bearing on the doctrine of a necessary 

 decrease in size during successive cell-divisions, the matter is plainly 

 of importance. And in the same connection we Avould state that 

 among the millions of fruslules in our gathering of S. elegam, 

 products of a long series of divisions and redivisions, the small 

 ones were few compared with those well toward the maximum of 

 220 p.. It would certainly seem that, with the expansible girdles 

 which pertain to this species, new valves might be formed as large 

 as the old; and that the quite small frustules, 170 /j. long, which 

 are present only to the extent of ten per cent., must owe their 

 existence to some less familiar and simple, but more real, influence 

 than a supposed, but non-existent, stony inexpansibility of the 

 mother-cell girdle. 



The girdles of Surirella elegam are apparently hyaline, but 

 under favorable conditions transverse striai are visible. When 

 well resolved, the appearance is similar to that of Amphipleura 

 pellucida, but the strite are more delicate and the resolution much 

 more <lifficult. Attempts further to resolve into dots were unsuc- 

 cessful. 



Pure gatherings of S. splendida Kuetz, less rich than that above 

 described, yet ample, showed essentially the same girdle structure. 

 That is to say, there were primary and secondary girdles, the latter 

 with and the former without cleats, but both with gaps situated as 

 in S. elegans.^ 



• Many mixed mounts of diatoms were examined, and Surirella girdles 

 of several species were recognized. All showed lateral gr-^P^. sind uianv 

 secondary girdles were seen with cleats. In Mueller's type-plate of one 

 hundred forms in styrax, a lateral gap was observed in the form listed as 

 S. norwegUa, Eul. (H, 3). 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 471 



S. elegans may stand as a type, not of its own genus only, bii 

 apparently also of the SurirelloidecTe. Cymatopleura solia W. Sm. , 

 according to our too few observations, has girdles with gaps situated 

 one on each side of the diatom, not far from the place of greatest 

 constriction midway of the length. As for Campy lodiscus, the 

 remaining genus, we have been unable to find any preparations 

 showing girdles in a condition admitting of study. 



NITZSCHIA. 



We have not been fortunate enough to identify satisfactorily any 

 large variety of girdles in this genus. Such girdles as are in situ 

 show nothing of importance except occasionally cei'tain apparent 

 lines running out at a sharp angle from the termination of the 

 valve on the girdle face — such as have been figured frequently 

 (e.^., Nitzschia linearis, in Van Heurck, PI, 16, fig. 542). Dis- 

 located girdles, however, were found plentifully in a gathering of 

 N. sigmoidea. As in Surirella, the girdles are of two kinds. 

 The first is, when in place, in contact with its valve along its whole 

 length. The second is narrower, and connected with the valve 

 only at one point — the- cleat. Both have one end open, the other 

 end closed. The free ends of a girdle are uniformly beveled in a 

 characteristic way, so as to form two sharp points. These points 

 meet each other at the end of the diatom. The inner girdle of a 

 simple pair has its opening at the end opposite to the opening in 

 the outer. The cleat on the secondary girdle is situated at the 

 opening in the primary, and partly closes it without at any time 

 fusing it into a sohd, unbroken band. Fig. -5, a and h, PI. XV, 

 illustrate these two forms of girdle in this species very well, except 

 that breadth is less in proportion to length than these drawings 

 would indicate. 



NAVICULA. 



Among the vast number of species of this genus we have paid 

 attention mostly to the Pinnularia group, such as Navicida vindis, 

 nohills and major. Pure gatherings of these large forms have not 

 been at our command. But though nowhere in great abundance, 

 some are to be found in almost all good fresh- water gatherings. 

 The girdles are easily assigned to their proper species as a rule, 

 because even when quite detached they generally still retain 

 approximately their original shapes. Even in fossil deposits it is 




472 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



not difficult to recognize many Navicnla girdles as belonging to 

 this or that particular form also represented therein by valves. 



In these large forms the girdles, when viewed as they stand upon 

 their edges — that is, in valve view, but Avith valve removed — show 

 each one a closed end and an end more or less widely opened. 

 When the exact shape is retained, the free ends, which are much 

 thinned or drawn out, approach each other closely or perhaps over- 

 lap a very little in some cases. As a rule, however, some little 

 distortion occurs during the preparation of the slide. A diagram 

 of the edge-view is given in fig. 2a, PI. XV. 



When seen flatwise, or in girdle view, the ends are found to be 

 narrowed in the other direction also. When the heat used in 

 mounting has been particularly high, it often happens that girdles 

 lying on their sides are softened, and the preparation will then some- 

 times show both the free ends nearly or quite in the same place, 

 and not superposed. The appearance then is somewhat as in fig. 2b, 

 PI. XV. The terminations of the band of silica appear always of 

 nearly this same shape in the large Xaviculse. The joint which is 

 formed by them is uniformly at the end of the diatom; and, as 

 may be expected, the joint or gap in the outer girdle is at one end of 

 the diatom, while that in the inner girdle is at the other end. Sec- 

 ondary girdles, homologous with those described above for Surirella, 

 we have seen but in a single doubtful case ; and anything resembling 

 a cleat, either in situ or detached from the valve, is equally hard 

 to find. Richer gatherings will probably be necessar)'- before the 

 secondary girdles, if such exist in Xavicula, can be described. 



The terminal gap or joint of these large forms is typical of the 

 girdle structure of the whole vast genus. X. gibba Kg., N. 

 Bombus Ehr., and many others, some in nearly pure gatherings, 

 yield girdles with gaps situated at the ends. It is, indeed, very 

 striking to see how uniformly the dislocated girdles of all species, 

 even the smallest, are open at one end and closed at the other. 

 Girdles in situ, uuless happily broken at the right place, do not 

 show the gap satisfactorily; and even a pair of girdles, one within 

 the other, with valves removed, often cling together so tightly that 

 the gaps are not obvious, ami the observer might think he had 

 here a completely closed single hoop. But a real case of a single 

 girdle with both ends closed has not, among either large or small 

 forms of this genus, been noted by us. 




I 



1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 473 



STATJRONEIS. 



The girdles of S. Phcenicentron Ehr. are very thin and narrow, 

 and the free ends forming the gap, which is situated at the end of 

 the frustule, have a less constant and definite shape than in the 

 case of most diatoms. Owing to their tenuit}', and consequent 

 proneness to soften and become distorted, these girdles are not 

 easily identified in mixed gatherings. From an examination of 

 some pure gatherings we are able to state that the gaps in inner 

 and outer girdles are at opposite ends of the diatom, and that 

 exceedingly minute cleats are often present on secondary girdles. 

 These cleats are merely little rod-like projections at right angles to 

 the edges of the girdles. 



NAVICULOIDE^ and ACHNANTHOIDE^. 



Terminal gaps in the girdles of the following have been observed 

 with uniformity: Pleurosigma angulatum W. Sm., PL Spencerii 

 Bailey, PL Balticxufi W. Sm., PL elonrjcdum "NV. Sm., PL strigo- 

 sum W. Sm., Van Heurchia rhomboides Breb., Gomphonema gemi- 

 natum (Lyngb. ) Ag., Phoicosphenia curvatum (Kuetz) Grun. In 

 the case of Pleurosigma, the termination of the free end of the 

 girdle is somewhat like that in species of Nitzschia, but less sharply 

 pointed, and more rounded on the side of the termination away 

 from the valve. In the above genera we have not seen any very 

 definite cleats. 



Cymbella, Amphora, Amphiprora and Mastogloia remain unin- 

 vestigated. Epithemia has claimed our attention without yielding 

 any clear understanding of its girdle structure. Achnanthes 

 hrevipes Ag. and Cocconeis Pediculus Ehr. yield girdles in which 

 terminal gaps can generally be distinctly seen. 



RHABDONEMA. 



Among the crowd of genera and species of the Fragilarioidese, 

 Rhahdonema adriaticum Kuetz. is the form that most clearly shows 

 the essential structure of the girdle. This structure seems, in addi- 

 tion, typical of the Avhole group, with the exception, apparently, 

 of some species of Synedra. Practically the same arrangement — 

 apart from the interposition of the Zwischenbaender — is found 

 with clearness in Eunotia, and indicated sufficiently in Meridian, 

 Diatoma and Fragilaria. 




474 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Two girdles of R. adriatieum are shown in fig, 3, PI, XV. One 

 bears a thin baud which joins it throughout its length to the valve 

 or Zwischenband. The other is more narrow, and connects with the 

 valve only by the very distinct cleat. Intergradations are observ- 

 able in rich gatherings which show a gradual increase of breadth, 

 starting from the cleat and extending toward the open end. The 

 ends are rounded, and half-inclined to be spatulate on the side 

 removed from the valve, but come to a point on the side next the 

 valve. The cleat is of considerable breadth, comparatively heavy, 

 and calculated, from its shape, to fit snugly on the inner edge of 

 the valve at the end. A few specimens, only partly dislocated during 

 mounting, showed the usual alternation of parts — that is, the outer 

 girdle of a pair is open at one end of the diatom, the inner girdle 

 of the same pair is open at the other end, 



EUNOTIA. 



E. major Rab. was studied at some length, both mounted in 

 filaments and mounted after disruption and separation of parts. 

 The mounted filament yields but unsatisfactory results. The 

 features of importance being at the ends of the cells, and the parts 

 being here so overlapped and confusing, an optical section of the 

 end of the cell, especially of one in course of division, will show 

 " a mass of things, but nothing distinctly." Nevertheless, a 

 rapidly growing filament does aftord some evidence that prevalent 

 ideas as to what goes on during cell-division of diatoms are not 

 altogether unmixed with error. We desire to return to this subject 

 at no distant date. For our present purpose, we simply show, in 

 fig. 4, PI. XV, two separated girdles of this species. We have 

 been able to discover no other kind of girdle than these, and such 

 as are of an intermediate character, either in this species or in 

 others of the genus. Filamentous and non -filamentous, all species 

 examined yield only girdles open at one end and closed at the other. 



MELOSIRA. 

 The fresh-water species of this genus are mostly small, and the 

 girdles are, previous to the formation of new valves, excessively 

 tenuous — so much so that any structure is only to be made out with 

 the greatest difficulty. M. Boe-seana Rab., however, occ^isionally 

 shows a typical structure, which is also dimly seen in certain sj^ci- 




\ 



1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 475 



mens of J/, vai'imis Ag. The long, tubular ' ' connective ' ' which 

 sepai'ates the old valves, and within which new valves grow, is 

 made up of numerous imbricated hoops. Each of these hoops is 

 incomplete. The openings in them are situated with respect to 

 each other somewhat irregularly. The sjiecies J/. Borreri Grev,, 

 being much larger, reveals a distinct structure. The arrangement 

 of the hoops is essentially like that in Lauderia annulata Cleve." 

 These bands or hoops, when separated, show openings; and in a 

 few cases, in the species M. Roesenna, delicate cleats extending 

 to the valves have been seen. These cleats are much like those in 

 Biddulphiu, which are described below. After the formation of 

 the new valves within this system of rings, the tube seems to 

 increase in thickness, and to become more or less fii-mly united with 

 tlie outer sui'faces or edges of the valves into a stiff and stout 

 construction not easily separated again. So the filamentous state 

 is conserved. But the openings or joints in the rings can stiil be 

 made out. with proper management. The tube composed by these 

 rings is, therefore, originally somewhat expansible. If it becomes 

 non-yielding, that is after the formation of the new valves ; so 

 that, if these latter are smaller, as they undoubtedly are, this fact 

 also has possibly another explanation. Numerous published figures 

 indicate the rings composing the tube in Melosira and its relatives, 

 but the openings and cleats have not been figured so far as we can 

 find. 



We have not investigated the girdles of the other genera of 

 Melosirinje nor those of the Sceletonemmte. 



COSCINODISCUS. 



Particularly distinct structures are to be found in the girdles of 

 this genus. In fig. 7, PL XV, is shown diagrammatically a pair 

 of girdles of C. subtilu Grun. with two secondary girdles in place. 

 In fig. 8, PI. XV, is given an inner primary, with two second- 

 aries adhering. These two figures will sufficiently elucidate the 

 arrangement and relation of parts in this species. We have here 

 the openings in all the girdles and stem-like cleats joining the 

 secondary girdles to the valves. It is worthy of note that here, at 

 least, whatever the import may be, the secondary girdles both 



^^ See Van Heurck, Treatise on the Diatomacece, p. 41S. Figure in the 

 text. 




476 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



overlie the inner primary. Here again, however, our information 

 is incomj^lete. It is a question whether these secondary girdles are 

 destined to serve the yet unformed valves of the daughter-celLs, or 

 whether they are nearly constant features of the mature mother- 

 cell, and designed simply to strengthen the whole structure. We 

 desire to pursue this inquiry further. 



A somewhat similar structure is that in C. rohustus Grev. (at 

 least as to the primary girdle), but more pronounced owing to the 

 greater thickness of the girdle, as will be noted in figs. 1 and 2 of 

 PI. XVI, which show photographically both views of the opening 

 in the primary girdle. Here the cellular structure of the girdle, 

 which is similar to but much finer than that of the valve, has 

 comparatively broad hyaline margins continuous through the gap. 

 We have observed secondary girdles with cleats in this same spe- 

 cies, but not in a shape to indicate clearly their relations with 

 primary girdles. 



The structure and arrangement as given will probably explain 

 the form described by J. Brun" under the name of Coscinodiscus 

 cnissus cum Placentce; also the appearance, according to J. Rat- 

 tray, ^^ of certain specimens of C. rohustus from Santa Monica, 

 Cal., wherein a striated border (of the valve) was " surrounded 

 by a second more sharply defined but narrower band, with a 

 slightly convex surface; .... at one place this band is inter- 

 rupted and somewhat moi'e convex on the two sides of the break. 

 This gives it the appearance of an elastic spring enveloping the 

 valve. ' ' 



Our material representing C. robustiis is from Sendai, Japan, 

 and while rich in girdles, it has failed to affDrd one that was com- 

 pletely closed. 



ACTINOCYCLUS. 



We have studied the girdles of A. Ehrenbevgii Ralfs. from 

 Florida. The structure is essentially the same as that of Cosci- 

 nodiscus subtilis as given in figs. 7 and 8 of PI, XV. In addition, 

 we have seen at least one secondary girdle apparently developing 

 in a most interesting and curious manner into a girdle of full width. 

 More observation is needed here before we feel warranted in 



"J. Brim: Diatomees Espcces NoutcUes Marines, p. 21. 

 "J. K.ittray: A revision of the genus Coscinodiscus Ehr. Edinburgh, 

 1890. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIE^XES OF PHILADELPHIA, 477 



drawing any final conclusion ; but the single example referred to 

 would seem to indicate only one possibility, namely, that the 

 secondary girdles do indeed eventually become indistinguishable 

 from the primary. 



AIILACODISCUS. 



In this genus the girdles are composed of hoops, imbricated as in 

 Melosira, Lauderia, etc. The arrangement of the hoops and the 

 location of the gaps ai'e shown photographically in figs. 4 and 5 of 

 PI. XVI, where the first figure is of the upper side of a semi- 

 frustule of A. Kittonii, and the second is of the lower side of the 

 same specimen. The girdle is in this case composed of four 

 hoops, but the number varies from two to six or even more in 

 different individuals. The opening of the hoop next the valve is 

 on the lower side, that of the next is on the upper side, the third 

 on the lower, the fourth on the upper. The cleats, which may be 

 anticipated here on all except the first hoop, have not been seen. 



BIDDULPHIA. 



The typical species, B. Icevis Ehr. , so abundant along the coasts, 

 has a complicated system of hoops. Two oft-recurring shapes are 

 shown in fig. 4, PI. XVI. The cleat on the narrower hoop 

 passes through the gap in the wide hoop and attaches itself to the 

 valve within the sulcus. In fig. 3, PI. XVI, is shown a frustule 

 with three hoops in the outer girdle. In fig. 6, PI. XV, is given 

 diagrammatically, but with essential faithfulness, a frustule with 

 two valves and four appi-oximately equal girdles. No cleats could 

 be discovered in the specimen from whicli this figure was con- 

 structed. The arrangement shown would certainly indicate the 

 po.'sibility that secondary girdles may function as primaries in the 

 daughter-cells. 



As to the location of the girdle gaps, it is worth remarking that 

 in this and neighboring species the gaps and cleats are always 

 situated almost vertically under the knobs of the valves — that is 

 to say, at the ends of the oval diatom, not on the flat sides as in 

 Surirella. 



Diatoms With Closed Girdles. 



Apparent or real exceptions to the open-girdle structure are 

 noted as follows: 

 Synedra superba Kuetz. Whether the girdle is or is not closed 




478 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



at both ends in this species remains quite doubtful. Certainly 

 there is much appearance of complete closure in many specimens 

 examined by us. In any case, the girdle is furnished with a stout 

 hook-shaped cleat at one end, and generally at the other end with 

 either precisely the same thing or else with two hooks only separable 

 from each other with difficulty. 



Arachnoidiscus Ehrenbergii Bailey. Such girdles of this species 

 as we have examined have been narrow and comparatively thick. 

 They are attached to the under side of the valve by an inward- 

 bent rim of great tenuity, quite continuous all around the circle. 

 No manipulation we could bring to bear has made any opening 

 evident in either rim or girdle, and the girdles usually show as 

 perfect and complete circles, 



Triceratium favus 'Ehr. The girdles are attached by a rim like 

 that in Arachnoidiscus. They are broader, however, and of a 

 thickness that would make any opening or gap very obvious. Con- 

 sidering the close relationship now thought to obtain between 

 Triceratium and Biddulphia, we confidently expected to find a 

 similarity in girdle structure. Our material, though not in endless 

 profusion, has not been exactly meagre. Yet we end by saying 

 not only that we have not found any girdle gaps in Triceratium, 

 but also that we do not believe any will be found. This is the more 

 curious, since it would appear from published figures that Litho- 

 desmium has possibly a complicated system of open girdles. But 

 we have not examined the latter, and cannot state the facts as to 

 this matter. It may be that the closed hoop structure is a charac- 

 teristic of all the Triceratiinte. 



Terpsinm mitsica Ehr. seems to have closed girdles. Being a 

 large form, any opening ought to be seen with ease. If such 

 exists, it is in the form of a very narrow slit at the end of the 

 diatom, and so invisible in the specimens as usually mounted. 



Isthmia nervosa Kuetz. This very large diatom has completely 

 closed girdles. These are all the exceptions to the general rule that 

 we have detected. Their importance is undeniable. Others 

 among the Ceutricre may quite possibly be found; though, if our 

 present classification is not overrated as an expression of natural 

 relationships, the probabilities are all in favor of the open-girdle 

 structure in most of the genera intervening between Melosira and 

 Biddulphia. As to the Pennatie, terminal gaps may be expected 

 in nearly all genera. 




I 



1900.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA, 479 



We desire to thank Messrs. J. E. Schultz, Lewis Woolman and 

 C. S. Boyer for diatom material, and the last-named gentleman 

 for certain references to the literature of diatoms. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATES. 



Plate XV. 



Fig. 1. Surirella elegans Ehr. a, inner primary girdle ; b, outer 



primary girdle; a', inner secondary girdle; b' , outer 



secondary girdle; c, arrangement of parts in situ; d, 



separated primary girdle; e, separated secondary girdle 



with cleat. 

 Fig. 2. Pinnularia sp. a, girdle on edge; b, girdle on flat side, 



distorted. 

 Fig. 3, Rhabdonema adriaticum Kuetz. a, primary girdle ; a', 



secondary girdle. 

 Fig. 4. Eunotia major Rah. a, primary girdle; a', secondary 



girdle. 

 Fig. 5. Nitzschia sigmoidea ^hr. a, primary girdle; b, secondary 



girdle. 

 Fig. 6. Biddulphia IcBvis Ehr. Two valves and four girdles, the 



front of outer girdles broken away to show gaps on the 



farther side. 

 Fig. 7. Coscinodhscus subtilis Grun. A pair of primary girdles, 



with two secondaries in place. 

 Fig. 8. Coscinodiseu-s subtilis Grun. An inner primary girdle, 



with two secondaries adhering. 



Plate XVI. 



Fig. 1. Valve view of girdle of Coscinodlscus robustus Grev. 



X 350. 

 Fig. 2. Girdle view of girdle of Cosdnodiscus robustus Grev. 



X 350. 

 Fig. 3. Biddulphia Icevis Ehr. X 425. Showing three hoops 



in outer girdle. 

 Fig. 4. Biddulphia Icevis Ehr. A primary and a secondary gir- 

 dle, the latter with cleat, x 200. 

 Figs. 5 and 6. Aulacodiscus Kittonii Arnott. X 370. A semi- 

 frustule, mounted on its girdle, and photographed 

 first on the side in contact with the cover-glass 

 (fig. 5), then on the far side (fig. 6). 

 Photographed with Tolles ^ 1.20 N. A. 




480 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1900. 



THE MUSCULUS CRUCIFOEMIS OF THE ORDER TELLINACEA. 

 BY H. VON IHERING, 



During the winter of 1876-1877, I spent my time in studying 

 the animals of the Pelecypoda in the rich collection of the Museum 

 of Copenhagen, which were with great liberality placed at my dispo- 

 sal. Among the numerous still unpublished observations then made, 

 there is one which I believe may be useful now, as it seems that 

 no other zoologist has hitherto observed and published the same. 

 All the members of the Tellinacea (Dall) have at the base of 

 the siphons in the connected ventral paits of the margins of the 



mantle a singular muscle, 

 formed by two crossing muscles 

 which are inserted in the valves 

 in the region of the angle formed 

 by the man tie -impression and 

 the sinus, or between it and the 

 borders of the shell. Our fig. 1 

 shows their positions in Sangui- 

 nolaria sanguinolenta (Gm. ). 

 One of the two branches per- 

 forates tlie other, both being 

 united into a cross-shaped mus- 

 cle, which functionally may sei've 

 as a secondary adductor, I have 

 examined this muscle in the 

 following species: Macoma 



, ^ /»cer«a Hauley and ca/careaCh., 



Fig. 1. Siphonal apparatus of i^an- . , ^ -nr j i 



guinolaria saiu/uinolcnta (Gm.). op, Telhna interrupta Wood and 



posterior adductor; rp, posterior re- ,^,.-^^^ q^^ Soletellina violacea 



tractor ; cr, cruciform muscle. 



Lam. 



_|_<2/0 



Sanguinolaria sanguino- 

 Asaphis coccinea Mart., 

 L., Iphigenia brasiliana 



lenta Gm., Psammobia ferroensis Ch. , 

 Donax cuneatus L,, Semele reticulata 

 Lam., Tagelus gibbus Spengler. 



In all these different forms the general arrangement is the same, 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 481 



but the development of the muscles, their insertions, etc., offer 

 great variability. In Tagelus the muscle is very small and 

 included in the mantel-edges, not producing separate scars of inser- 

 tion. Somewhat stronger are the muscles in Psammobia and 

 Donax, but as a rule they produce also no distinct scars of inser- 

 tion. Iphigenia has the muscles strong but short. In the true 

 Tellina and in 3Iacoma the branches are slender and very long, 

 and always the scars of in- 

 sertion are quite well devel- ,^^ ^ ^ 

 oped, as shown by our fig. 2. a.p. 



Sometimes the insertion is 

 diflEerent in relation to the 

 distance of the scars in both 

 valves, and sometimes one of 



the muscular branches is sub- -r^. ^ mn- ^ • s r^i. i. 



Fig. 2. Tellina striata Ch. an,, ante- 

 divided, producing thus two rior addnctor ; ap, posterior adductor ; 

 ggg^j-g ^ c^ and c", scars of the insertions of the 



cruciform muscle. 

 All these differences are of 



secondary value. Thei'e can be, however, no doubt that the Telli- 

 nidse offer the best and most typical development of the apparatus, 

 and Tagelus the most rudimentary one. The conditions of the 

 muscle in the genera Solecurtus and others apparently related to 

 Tagelus, should be examined. Evidently the cruciform muscle is a 

 special development of fibres of the mantel-edge which only sec- 

 ondarily have been isolated from these margins. This is, as I 

 believe, the true origin also of the adductor muscles, which in 

 their earliest state were situated in the mantel -edge and secondarily 

 isolated and removed from it. The cruciform muscle forms a new 

 anc^ important character of the super-family Tellinace?e, confirming 

 the views of Prof. W. H. Dall. 



I 



31 




482 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1900. 



THE FLORA OF THE EDGEHILL RIDGE NEAR WILLOW GROVE AND 



ITS ECOLOGY. 



BY ALEXANDER MAC ELWEE. 



The village of "Willow Grove, Montgomery county, Pa., is 

 situated near the eastern edge of the Chester Valley limestone for- 

 mation, and just at the northern base of one of the highest points 

 of the Potsdam sandstone, commonly known as the Edgehill 

 ridge. This ridge is part of an almost continuous belt of sand- 

 stone, (juartzite and conglomerate rocks, which extends from the 

 Delaware river near Trenton almost to the Schuylkill river. The 

 section of the belt studied extends from the village of Willow 

 Grove southeast about one mile, then southwest for about five 

 miles, terminating at a point one mile southwest of the village of 

 Edgehill. The average elevation of this ridge is about 400 feet. 

 This elevated region is an important factor in determining the flow 

 of the streams in its neighborhood. Sand Run, rising about a half- 

 mile east of Rubicam, drains the valley between this ridge and the 

 hills of the same formation on the north and unites with the 

 Wissahickon on the west side of Fort Hill. Various little streams 

 starting on the south side at Laverock, Edgehill, Weldon and 

 Abiugton, unite a short distance above Jenkintowu and form the 

 main volume of Tacony creek. The southeast, east and northeast 

 sides are drained by the Pennypack creek and its tributaries, 

 Paul's Brook, Terwood Run and other minor streams. Numerous 

 good roads traverse the region in different directions, and many fine 

 views of the surrounding country may be obtained. 



The flora of this ridge is very interesting, owing to its difference 

 from that of the surrounding country. It is a flora peculiar to 

 many barren districts on the Atlantic seaboard which contain 

 numerouspecies and v arieties. 



The plants of this region resolve themselves into three societies 

 or associations of species. These are as follows: 




1900.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



483 



Sunshine plants : 



(a) Roadside, 



(6) Dry open woods, 



(e) Introduced annuals of the cultivated fields. 

 Shade plants. 

 Bog plants. 



1. Sunshine Plants. — The old road leading over the hill near 

 Willow Grove is an excellent place for the study of tliis society. 

 A great variety of plants are found here in bloom, from the first 

 early violets of spring until the last asters and golden-rods of 

 autumn. The varied colors and scents of the Virginia goats-beard, 

 golden ragweed, clumps of pink azalei^s, lousewort, blue-eyed 

 grass, fragrant pennyroyal, bracken ferns and kindred plants make 

 the road gay in early summer. Later, the many forms of sedges, 

 grasses, tick-seeds, and compositse interest the lover of plants. It 

 is interesting to note the number of young trees of rock oak, red 

 oak, tulip poplar, sassafras, mocker-nut, hickory and others which 

 are springing up among the telt of blackberries skirting the road. 

 Wagons passing at long intervals just manage to keep the track 

 open and prevent the forest from reclaiming its own. The follow- 

 ing is a select list of plants of this society: 



\ 



Pteris aquilina, 

 Agrostis alba, 

 Danthonia sjiicata, 

 Panicum pubescens, 

 Panicum sphcerocarpon, 

 Carex virescens, 

 Sisyriiichium graminoides, 

 Rubus Canadensis, 

 RxibxLS villosus, 

 Baptisia tindoria, 

 Lespedeza hirta, 

 Ascyrum hypericoides, 

 Helianthemum majm, 



Viola communis, 



Viola dentata, 



Viola emarginata, 



Viola fimbriatula, 



Viola sagitatta, 



Viola villosa, 



Chavuenerion angutifolium, 

 Lysimachia tiammularia, 

 Sabbatia angularis, 

 Pedicularis Canadensl<t, 



Campanula rapunculoides, 

 Adopogon Virginicum, 

 Aster ericoides. 

 Aster lateriflorus , 

 Bidens comosa, 

 EupafoHum aromaticum, 



Gnap halium o btusifolium, 

 Hieraciimi Gronovii, 

 Hieracium seabrum, 

 Solidago bieolor, 

 Solidago nemoralis. 




484 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



(6) The dry open woods coalain a society of plants, some of 

 which are frequently met with along the road. Huckleberry Hill, 

 so named by me from the variety and abundance of these plants 

 found there, may be taken as a type locality. The species of 

 plants are few and comprise the following: 



Garex nigro-niargmata, Vaccinium atrococcum, 



Scleria paueiflora, Vaccinium vacillans, 



Hypoxys hirsuta, Vaccinium siamineum, 



Pogonia vertieillata, Kalmia augustijolia, 



Goviptonia peregrina, Kalmia latifolia, 



Quercus Marylandica, Dasystoma flava, 



Quercm minor, Gerardia tenuifolia, 



Rubus hispidus, Aster patens, 



Gracca Virginiana, Aster undulatus, 



lAnum striatum, Aster undulatus triangularis, 



Linum Virgmianum, Ghrysopsis mariana, 



Gaylussada resinosa, Sericocarpus asteroidea. 

 Gaylussacia frondosa, 



(c) The weeds of the cultivated fields will form the basis of 

 later study. 



2. Shade or Forest Plants. — The woods of the hill consist 

 principally of second-growth rock -chestnut oak, with a sprinkling 

 of white and red oak. Beech trees are also quite numerous, and 

 in the thicker portions are a few tulip trees conspicuous by their 

 tall, straight, light-colored trunks. Along . the outskirts are 

 juniper, sassafras, white and shellbark hickory, cherries and 

 dogwood. 



The undergrowth consists of arrow-wood, young beeches and 

 high bush huckleberries, while clambering up and over the trees 

 are tangled masses of frost-grape and briar. At the highest point 

 of the hill the woods have been cut over in recent years, hence the 

 timber is very thin and averages about twelve feet in height. Fur- 

 ther north, nearer the village, the timber is heavier and is at its 

 best in the woods on the northeast side of the road. All these 

 woods give shelter to herbaceous plants according to their density 

 and depth of vegetable mould. The following plants, among 

 others, may be found : 




1900.] 



N'ATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



485 



Adiantum 2)edatum, 

 Panicum Porteriamun, 

 Smilax herbacea, 

 Polygonatum hiflorum, 

 Cypripedium acaule, 

 Populus grandidentata, 

 Agrimonia hirsuta, 

 Aronia nigra, 

 Geranium maculatum, 

 Viola pubescens, 

 Viola sororia, 

 Sanicula Canadensis, 

 Deringa Canadensis, 

 Chimapliila maculata, 

 Chimaphila umbellata. 



Pyrola rotund if olia, 



Monotropa uniflora, 



Hypopitys Hypopitys, 



Pieris mariana, 



Lycopus Virginicus, 



Chelone glabra, 



Galium trifiorurn, 



Galium laneeolatum, 



Vibiirnum acerifolium, 



Aster divaricatus. 



Aster Lourieanus, 



Aster Lowrieanus laneijolius, 



Aster macropjliyllus pinguifoliu^, 



Xabalus trifoliatus. 



3. Bog Plants. — This society of plants is veiy interesting, not 

 in its size, but in its peculiar flora. The little bog of this region 

 is in the centre of a three-acre field. The trees in it consist mainly 

 of sweet bay, Magnolia Virginiana, willows and alders. The rills 

 from the base of the hill all centre here. At different times in the 

 year the follosving plants may be found in bloom: 



Panicum sphagnicolum, 

 Panicum longifolium, 

 ^Agrostis altissima, 

 Dulichium arundinaceum, 

 Eleocharis tuberculosa, 

 Rhyncosp)ora alba, 

 Rhyncospora glomerata, 

 Eriophorum Virginianum, 

 Carex Atlaniica, 

 ^ Carex alata. 



Juncus marginatus, 



A let r is farinosa, 



Xyi'is Jlexuosa, 



Pogon ia op h ioglossoides, 



Limnodorum tuberosum, 



Drosera rotundifolia, 



Polygala cruciata, 



Bartonia tenella. 



Aster NovcB-Belgi, 



Eupatorium verbencefolium. 



Some of the above plants are frequently met with in bogs here 

 and there throughout the State, but almost all are common to the 

 pine-barren regions of lower New Jersey. How they got into this 

 little bog is an interesting question which is hard to solve. 



1 Collected by Mr. C. F. Saunders. 

 3-2 




486 ■ PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



In addition to the above, the following plants are also found in 

 this bog: 



Paspalwn Ueve, Viola primulcefolia, 



Car ex interior, Oxypolis rigida, 



Scleria Torreyana, Gentiana saponaria, 



Juncus scirpoides, Asclepias rubra, 



Juncus dichotomus, Scutelaria integrifolia, 



Alsine uliginosa, Campanula aparinoides, 



Viola cucullata, Senecio balsamitce, 



Viola blanda, Vernonia Novce-boracen-sis. 



The study of this flora has given rise to numerous questions 

 regarding the origin aud distribution of many species, some of 

 which I shall endeavor to explain. The factors which influence 

 the flora are soil, light, heat, water, wind, plants and animals. 



(1) Soil. — The soil of this region, excepting the denser woods, 

 is of a light brown or gray color, open and porous in texture and 

 usually strewn on the surface with numerous pieces of the native 

 rock. From its porous nature it cannot retain water, hence the 

 plants have adapted themselves to this condition and usually have 

 long roots. The absence of annuals in this region is striking. 

 Out of a total of about 120 species, collected by me in 1899, but 

 few were annuals. My collecting was confined mainly to those 

 places where the indigenous flora is not influenced by the opera- 

 tions of man. Annuals are characterized by a fibrous root system, 

 which is usually not very extensive. They are not, therefore, 

 adapted for existence in this porous soil. Two of the annuals 

 referred to, Bidens comosa and Erechites hieracifolia, were collected 

 along roadsides, where they were partially protected from the sun 

 aud received a fair share of moisture in the rich soil of such loca- 

 tions. Another annual, Gerardia ienuifolia, of the dry woods, has 

 small and very narrow leaves, and is thus fitted for existence under 

 these conditions. 



(2) Light and Heat. — The effect of these two factors on the 

 distribution of plants is very marked. The elevations in this 

 limited area do not peceptibly influence the prevailing tempera- 

 ture ; but as the amount of light regulates, to a greater or less ex- 

 tent, the degree of heat or temperature, we will consider the two 

 together. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 487 



Light has a marked effect ou the area and texture of leaves ; 

 while it reaches its miuimum iu dense woods, it attains its maxi- 

 mum in the open and exposed locations. Between these two ex- 

 tremes there are many variations and each has its peculiar plants. 

 In the minimum condition — that is, in dense woods — plants are 

 characterized by broad, thin leaves; for instance, note the leaves 

 of May-apple, Podophyllum j)eltatum ; Indian turnip, Ariscema 

 trlpliijlluin ; Panlcum Porterianum ; Aster Loivrieanus ; Aster 

 macrophyllus, and others, and compare these with the same or 

 allied species growing iu the sunlight. The first two, Ma.y-apple 

 and Indian turnip, decided woodland plants, when growing in the 

 open Avhere woofls have been recently cut off, are smaller in height 

 and area of leafage. In the sunlight the leaves of most grasses 

 and sedges are narrow, many of them are erect or placed edgewise, 

 so as to receive a minimum of light. Aster ericoides, Solidago 

 bicolor, Euthamia Caroliniaiia, Hellantliemum iiiyus, and others 

 have all comparatively"' small leaves. Lsaves of many plants in 

 sunlight have protective coverings of hair or scales to prevent a 

 toa rapid evaporation of moisture. Others, particularly plants 

 belonging to the Legumiaosce, have the power of changing their 

 position when the light is too strong. Ou a cloudy day such leaves 

 assume the usual position, but if the day is bright and the sun 

 strong they turn on edge, close up or turn directly away from 

 the sun. 



While we notice that plants in the shade develop lai'ge leaves 

 and long stems and that those iu the sun are retarded in their 

 development, we also note a tendency toward an optimum condi- 

 tmn. Shade plants along edge of woods or around clearings in 

 dense forests develop to a remarkable degree and have a strong 

 directive tendency towai'd the light. Sun plants, on the other 

 hand, dispute the ground with them, and an intense struggle for 

 supremacy takes place. This battle-ground of the plants is 3om- 

 mon along roads in wooded districts. It is in this disputed terri- 

 tory of intermingling individual plants that differentiation begins 

 and gives place to a variety of forms of species. As we recede 

 from it to either extreme of light we encounter the well-marked 

 species, specialized for adaptation to their particular surroundings. 



(3) Water. — Water or moistui-e considered as food of plants 

 has an important bearing ou the development of plant life. On 




488 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1900. 



this ridge its presence is not at once very evident. Rock-chestnut 

 oak, post oak, black oak and beech, trees of rocky, sterile regions, 

 are everywhere found. We have reason to believe that much 

 moisture ascends through the porous subsoil by capillarity, enough 

 at least to reach the plants peculiar to this soil. The moisture ne- 

 cessary to support the woodland plants is conserved through the aid 

 of the thick covering of vegetable mould. 



No streams ci'oss the ridge, but, as described above, many take 

 their rise along its base. There is a little bog at the southern base 

 of the hill at Willow Grove, where Terwood Run takes its rise. 

 The moisture here seems to ooze out from the base of the sandstone 

 on to the loamy soil of the flanking formation on the south. 



In studying the plants of this bog, I have been impressed with 

 the comparatively smaller area of the leafage, and have come to 

 the conclusion that abundant moisture does not necessarily imply 

 an increased growth of leaves. A glance at the accompanying 

 table will show the striking difference in this respect between typi- 

 cal plants of the woods and those of the bog. 



Forest Plants. 



Agrimonia hlrsula 



Phrijina Lepfoslachya . . 



Viola pubescens 



Galium Irijlorum , 



Chimaphila maculata... 



Pyroln rotund i/olia 



Galium lanceolatum, ..... 



Ara/ia nudicautis 



Sm ilax herbacea 



Derivga Canadensis 



San icula Ca nadetisis .... 

 Pan icum Porter ia 7ium . . 



Nabalus iri/oliatus 



Viburnum acerifolium. . 



Lycopus Virgin icus 



Chelone glabra 



Aster Lourieanus 



Aster mncrophylhis 



Podophylhini pfltatum. . 

 Arixirmit trip/n/llum . . . . 

 Sangninaria Canadensis. 



Total area 



Cm. 



X 3.5 

 X 7 



1 



11 X 

 8 X 

 3.5 X 

 3 X 1.5 

 4.5 X 4.5 

 3.5 X 1.5 



13 



7 X 



11 X 



7 X 



8 X 

 10 X 



8 X 



7.5 



5 



7 



3 



2 



7 



X 3 

 X 3.5 

 X 3.5 

 xl2 

 xlO 

 X 5 



SQ.CM. 



24.5 



77 



64 

 3.5 

 4.5 



20.2.1 

 5.75 



97.5 



35 



77 



21 



16 



70 



64 



24 



31.5 



24.5 

 192 

 150 



50 



84 



'1136 



Average of 21 species. . 



54.1 



Bog Plants. 



Cm. 



Sq.Cm 



Magnolia Virginiana ...'11 x 5 55 



Dulichium arundinaceum .5 x .2 1 



Aletris fnrinosa 13 x 1 13 



Drosera rotundi/olia .... .5 X .4 2 



Asclepias rubra ; 13 x 4.5 | 52.5 



Scutellaria inlegrifolia. . . 2.5 X .6' 1.5 

 Campanula aparinoides . 2 x .5 j 1 

 Limnoilorum tuberosum . l.i x .5 7..") 



Oxi/polis rigidus . . 

 Eiipatorium verberxtfo- 



lium 



Aster Amrr-Belgi 



Poll/gala crucinta 



Gi/roslachpf ccmua 



Eriophorum Virginicum . 



Scleria Torrci/ana 



Xi/ris fletuosa 



Panicum sp/iagnicolum . 

 R/tyncospora glomerata . . 

 Eleochiiris tuberculosa . . . 



Geutiana saponaria 



AUine uliginosa 



Total area 



Average of 21 species . . I I 9.4 



In making these measurements, I took the average-sized leaf — in 

 the case of pinnate leaves, one leaflet — an<l multiplied its length by 

 its breadth in centimeters. The result, though not the exact area 

 of the leaf, is approximate enough to show comparative values. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 489 



The average area of the leaves of the swamp plant is 9.4 ?q. cm., 

 while that of the forest plant is 54.1 sq. cm., or a ratio of nearly 

 1 to 6. 



Conversely, this also prov-es that the large leaves of the wood- 

 land plants are the result of a lack of light, as noted above, and 

 not a lack of moisture, since this element is usually pi'esent in such 

 localities. 



It can" also be shown by comparing typical bog plants with typi- 

 cal dry-soil plants, that the size of the leaves is not dependent 

 upon the amount of moisture. 



Here are a few plants of each class: 



"^BoG Plants (Hyprophytes). I>Ry-Soil Plants (Xero- 



PHY'TES). 



Pogonia ophioglossoides, Pogonia verticillaia, 



Punicum spliagtiicolum, Panunim nitidum, 



Scleria Torreyana, ^ . Scleria pauciflora, 



Aster NovcB-Belgi, Aster ericoides, 



Juncus marginatus, . Juncus huffoniiis, 



Viola cucullata, Viola communis, 



Asclepias rubra, Asclepias syriacus, 



Carex interior. Carex virescens. 



There is practically no difference in the size or structure of the 

 leaves of the two groups. Many other plants of either group not 

 related to each other might be quoted as having features common 

 to both, but I have only chosen in the above list the allied species. 

 As a rule, the root system of the bog plant is extensive, but it is 

 not more so than that of the dr3^-soil plant. The roots of the dry- 

 ground plants have further and deeper to go in order to get suffi- 

 cient moisture, hence their system is more extensive and much 

 greater than that of the bog plant. A familiar instance of this 

 outside of the region under discussion is that of the root systems of 

 the sand-binding plants of the coast sand dunes, plants which live 

 under rigorous xerophytic conditions. 



This difference of root systems constitutes the only difference 

 between the bog plants and the dry-soil plants of the Willow 

 Grove hill. In the first, the food is abundant and close at hand, 

 and the system compact ; in the other, the food is scarce, and the 

 system extended. I have therefore concluded that the swamp 




490 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



plants are notMng more or Jess than xerophytes in moist surround- 

 ings, or vice versa. 



(4) Wind. — Wind is an important factor in distributing plants. 

 Seeds of many of the plants of this region are provided with 

 wings or hairs by means of which they are blown considerable dis- 

 tances. 



(5) Plants. — The rich vegetable mould of the woods and other 

 places support plants which cannot exist where this factor is absent. 

 In the woods north of the road on top of the Willow Grove hill, 

 the vegetation is well developed. In the deeper recesses may be 

 found the colorless and leafless saprophytes, Monotropa uniflora, 

 Hypopilys Hypopitys, Aphyllon uniflora and Lep)tamniwn Virgin- 

 ianum, also the plants in table above. The change of this flora 

 as a result of the removal of vegetable mould may be seen a little 

 southeast of the above point on Huckleberry Hill. Here the 

 woods have been cut off, the slope is steep and the elements have 

 done their work too well. Vegetation is scant, and stunted second- 

 growth trees and shrubs give but little shade to the few clumps of 

 wiry grasses, sedges, huckleberries and a few other flowering plants. 

 Sphagnum moss in the bog supports small plants like Drosera 

 rotundifolia and Polygala cruciata. 



(6) Animals. — The distribution of plants is effected by insects 

 in aiding cross-fertilization and by birds, squirrels and other auimals 

 in distributing seeds selected as food. 



A summary of my observations shows that there is a distinct 

 ridge having a peculiar geological structure and a flora different 

 from that of the surrounding country ; that perennials as a rule 

 are only fitted to exist in the porous soil; that the large thin leaves 

 of the wood plants are the result of a lack of light and not of 

 nourishment; that variation of species commences in the optimum 

 condition of hght, and that the distinct forms are fcund in the 

 extremes of this ekment; that the abundant moisture of the bog 

 does not tend to develop much vegetable growth, and that the differ- 

 ence of structure of swamp plants and dry-soil plants is slight or 

 none at all; that all the factors of soil, light, heat, water, wind, 

 plants and animals regulate the distribution of the plants into 

 three well-marked societies, the first two depending on the amount 

 of licht and the third on the amount of available moisture. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 491 



Septebmer 4. 



Mr. Charles Morris iu the Chair. 



Seven persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication: 

 " Contributions to the Ichthyology of the Tropical Pacific," by 

 Henry W. Fowler. 



" Sonorella, a New Genus of Helices," by Henry A. Pilsbry. 



September 11. 



Mr. Benjamin Smith Lyman in the Chair. 



Six persons present. 



A paper entitled "The Genesis of Mid-Pacific Faunas," by 

 Henry A. Pilsbry, was presented for publication. 



September 18. 



Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Ten persons present. 



A paper entitled " A Partial Revision of the Pupa3 of the 

 United States," by Henry A. Pilsbry and Edward G. Vanatta, 

 was presented for publication. 



September 25. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 



Fifteen persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : 

 " Note on Some Post-Larval Changes in the Vertebral Articula- 

 tions of Spelerpes and Other Salamanders," by J. Percy Moore. 




492 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [19^0. 



" An Ecological Study of the New Jersey Strand Flora," by 

 John W. Harshberger, Ph.D. 



The following were elected members : 



Charles B. Lamborn, Lowndes Taylor, Helen Taylor and Emily 

 Hinds Thomas. 



The following were ordered to be printed : 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 493 



CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE ICHTHYOLOGY OF THE TROPICAL PACIFIC. 

 BY HENRY W. FO'U'LER. 



-^ I. The Sandwich Islands. 



Among the more important collections of fishes presented to the 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia during the earlier 

 days of its existence, was one made by the celebrated naturalist 

 and traveller, Dr. John K. Townsend, in the tropical Pacific. 



In the year 1834 it seems that an expedition was formed under 

 the auspices of a Captain Wyeth, who intended to travel over the 

 United States to establish trading posts along the Pacific coast. 

 Dr. Townsend joined the expedition at the suggestion of Mr. 

 Thomas Nuttall, the distinguished botanist, who was also a mem- 

 ber of the party. After proceeding to Fort Vancouver, they 

 embarked for the Sandwich Islands, arriving in Honolulu, January 

 5th, 1835, and after visiting the various islands returned to the 

 Columbia river in April. On the first of October, 1835, IS'uttall 

 left Townsend, who remained in the West till November, 1836, 

 when he again left the Columbia for the Sandwich Islands, making 

 Oahu iu December, and after making a pecoud tour of the islands, 

 he proceeded to Tahiti. 



For detailed information concerning the route, reference should 

 be made to the account which he published in 1839, entitled 

 " Narrative of a Journey across the Rocky ]Mountains to the 

 Columbia River, and a visit to the Sandwich Islands, Chili, etc." 



Subsequently Dr. William H. Jones, of the United States Navy, 

 was enabled to make collections in various branches of zoology 

 while in the tropical Pacific, among which was one of fishes, which 

 has found its way into the Academy. 



Dr. Benjamin Sharp, who visited the Sandwich Islands in 1893, 

 made collections, mostly of invertebrates, among which was a 

 small collection of fishes which he purchased in the markets of 

 Honolulu during October or November. 



All the specimens are alcoholic, except a number in the Townsend 

 and Nuttall collections which are dry preparations. 




494 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



LEPTOCEPHALID-^. 



1. Leptocephalus H>-'^ 



'No. 1,042. Thomas Nuttall. A larval specimen. 



OPHICHTHYID^. 



2. Leiuranus semicinctus iLay and Beiiueit). 



Ophisurus semicinctus Lay and Bennett, Zool. Capt. Beechey's 

 Voyage, 1839, p. 66, PL XX, fig. 4. 



Nos. 16,477 and 16,478. 



3. Myrichthys magnificus f Abbott). Plate XVIII, fig. 3. 



Pisoodonophis maynifica Abbott, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.. 1860, 

 p. 476. 



Nos. 1,013 and 1,014. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



Types of Abbott's Pisoodonophis magnifica. 



MTJR^NID^. 



4. Lycodontis eurosta (Abbott). Plate XVIII, fig. 4. 



Thyrsoidea eurosta Abbott, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1860, p. 478. 

 No. 984. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 

 Type of Abbott's Thyrsoidea eurosta. 



5. Lycodontis acutirostris (Abbott). Plate XVIII, fig. 5. 



Murcena acutirostris Abbott, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1860, p. 476. 

 No. 998. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 

 Type of Murcena acutirostris Abbott. 



6. Lycodontis kaupi (Abbott). Plate XVIII, fig. C. 



I'hyrsoidea Kaupii Abbott, Proc. .A.cad. Nat- Sci. Phila.. 1860, p. 477. 

 No. 916. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 

 Type of TIcyrsoidea Kaupii Abbott. 



7. Lycodontis pseudothyrsoidea (Bloeker). 



MurcEna pseudot}iyr)<oidea Bleeker, Natuurk, Tijdsch. voor Nederl. 

 Indie, Jaarg. Ill, 1852, p. 778. 



No. 996. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 

 No. 16,476. Dr. W. H. Jones. 



8. Lycodontis parvibranchialis sp. nov. Plate XVIII, fig. i. 

 No. 16,483. Type. 



The form of the body is elongate and compressed, and resembles 

 tnat of the preceding species. Mouth closing, but when closed the 

 lips do not conceal the sliarp teeth completely, as some of these are 

 always visible laterally; lateral teeth of the upper jaw in 2 rows 

 till posterior to the eyes at least, those in the inner row somewhat 




1900,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 495 



the larger and occasionally a cauiue-like form is assumed ; about 

 9 large, fang-like teeth in the anterior portion of the upper jaw, 

 which has but 1 row of bordering teeth; the teeth in the lower 

 jaw in 2 rows which are close together and rather irregular; 

 this is the case in the upper jaw directly below the eye, and there 

 are also enlarged fang-like teeth in the anterior part of the man- 

 dible like those above, vomerine teeth in a single series, the median 

 being slightly larger than the others. The neck has the swollen 

 appearance of most of the Morays, and is thicker than the body. 

 The branchial apertures, which are very small, inconspicuous, and 

 which might easily be overlooked, have the cleft of the mouth con- 

 tained in the space between themselves and the tip of the snout 

 about 3 times. The eyes are rather large, contained in the 

 snout more than once their diameter, situated laterally, directly 

 above the jaws, and nearly midway between the tip of the snout 

 and the corners of the mouth. The anterior nostrils are placed in 

 fleshy tubes, the posterior pair are situated in the antero -inter- 

 orbital space, and midway between the eyes and the tip of the 

 snout are also a pair of nostril-like pores. The depth of the head 

 in the ocular region is greater than its width in the same region, its 

 general shape is moderately attenuated and compressed laterally. 

 The interorbital space is about equal to the diameter of the eye and 

 is nearly level. The D,, whose origin is at a point anterior to the 

 branchial aperture, though not median in position in the space 

 between the latter point and the corner of the mouth, is of moderate 

 height and, like the A., is continuous with the caudal. The P. 

 are absent. The vent is situated about an eye-diameter in advance 

 of the origin of Ihe A, Lateral line absent. The general color 

 of the body is a dark, rich brown, variegated with about 4 rows 

 of longitudinal whitish spots, all of which are not larger than the 

 pupil of the eye. The space intervening between the whitish 

 spots is marked with blackish blotches of a similar size as the 

 white ones, but not so sharply defined. 



One small specimen. 

 9. Echidna zonata sp. nov. Plate XVIII, fig. 2. 



No. 16,484. Type. 



Form of the body elongate, compressed, especially the caudal 

 region. The branchial aperture about equal to the eye, and with 

 the cleft of the mouth contained in the space between the foremost 




496 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900, 



point and the tip of the snout 3 times. The snout is bluntly 

 obtuse, though slightly compressed laterally, and it projects beyond 

 the lower jaw. Eyes placed directly above the mouth, laterally, 

 and slightly posterior to its centre, so that they are contained 

 in the snout at least 1^ times. Anterior nares in tubes near the 

 tip of the snout, posterior nares situated superior to the eye and 

 in the interorbital space, and with the nostril-like pores as in the 

 preceding species. The eyes are covered with thin skin, and are 

 not equal to the interorbital space which is convex. Teeth obtuse, 

 molar like, in 2 series laterally in the lower jaw ; anterior teeth in 

 both jaws enlarged, vomerine teeth in a single series. Mouth 

 capable of being completely closed, so that no teeth are then 

 visible. Xeck not much greater in depth than the rest of the 

 body. There are no P. Origin of the D. midway between 

 the tip of the snout and the branchial aperture, the fin itself 

 of moderate height, and like the A., confluent with the caudal. 

 Anus midway in the ventral region of the body and directly 

 in front of the origin of the A. The general color of the body 

 is a very pale brownish-white, pure white on both jaws anterior 

 to the eyes and the extremity of the caudal. Upon the light 

 ground color of the body are large, rich umber blotches, which are 

 clearly and evenly defined and which extend upon the D. and A. 

 fins, but do not cross the abdominal region. Length about 5 

 inches. 



10. Echidna polyzona (Richardson). 



M'trmna polyzona Richardson, Zool. Voy. Sulphur : Ichth., I. 1S44, p. 

 112, PI. LV, figs. 11 and 12. 



No. 16,485. 



Head anterior to the eyes, white. On the anterior half of ihe 

 body the white rings which encircle the trunk widen considerably, 

 and all the region anterior to the vent is whitish; there are 27 

 white rings, if the snout and tip of the caudal are counted. The 

 tail is a little longer than the body. 



ELOPID^. 



11. Slops saurus Linnjeus. 



Elops saurus Linnncus, Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, 17t5G, p. 518. 

 No. 1,181. Dr. W. H. Jones. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 497 



ENG RAULIDID^. 



12. Stolephorus purpureus ^-p- nov. Plate XIX, fig. 1. 



is^s. 23,329 aud 23,330. Types. Dr. W. H. Jone.?. 



This species is close to the Sfolejihoriis ischanus of Jordan and 

 Gilbert. 



Form of the body elongate and compressed, the greatest depth 

 ■of the body contained in its length without the caudal nearly 6 

 times and the head in the same 3^ times. Head laterally com- 

 pressed. Eyes lateral, anterior to the centre of the head, in which 

 they are contained 3 J times, and about equal to the snout. ]Mouth 

 large, the maxillaries with their distal portion produced backwards 

 beyond the posterior margin of the eye equal to an eye diameter and 

 with their lower edges with minute teeth. Teeth in the lower jaw. 

 Gill-rakers numerous. The D. is inserted a little behind the base of 

 the v., and nearer the tip of the snout than the tip of the caudal 

 or as in Stolephorus ischoMus midway between the anterior margin 

 of the eye and the base of the caudal. Radii of D. 11 aud 15 ; of 

 A. 13 ? and 16. The origin of tlie A. is at a point posterior to the 

 base of the last D. ray. The P. are short but reach beyond the 

 centre of the space between their bases and the bases of the V. 

 Scales apparently not firm or closely adhering to the body, very 

 few remaining on these examples. A broad silvery lateral bar from 

 the upper part of the head passes to the caudal aud widens pos- 

 teriorly as in Stole]) horns commersonianus Lace'pede. Color of the 

 head silveiy and the silvery lateral band and remaining scales shot 

 with delicate purple. The caudal is faintly spotted with brown- 

 ish dots. Total length of both specimens about 2^ inches. 



SYNODONTID^. 



13. Synodus sharpi sp. nov. Plate XIX, fig. 2. 



Nos. 16,084 to 16,086. Types. Dr. W. H. Jones. 



This species is near Synodus evermanni of Jordan aud Boll- 

 man. Form of the body elongate, the depth contained in the 

 total length without the caudal 6f to 7 times, and the head in the 

 same about 4 times. Head blunt, strongly compressed above and 

 with the interorbital space concave and equal to the diameter of 

 the eye. Eyes superior and anterior in the head in which they 

 are contained A^ to 5 times. The nares are placed about midway 

 between the tip of the snout and the anterior margin of the eye, 




498 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



the snout itself greater than the eye. Jaws equal, the teeth large 

 and the space between the tip of the snout and the posterior 

 extremity of the maxillary about f the length of the head. The 

 P. short, rounded and not equal to h the length of the head. The 

 V. large, radii 10, inserted anterior to the tip of the P., the inner- 

 most rays the longest, and when depressed reaching beyond the base 

 of the last D. ray. Origin of the D. more posterior to the tips of 

 the P. than the origins of the V. are anterior, the anterior rays of 

 the fin reaching the tips of the posterior when depressed, the radii 

 10, and the origin also nearer the adipose fin than the tip of the 

 snout. The origin of the A. nearer the origin of the V. than the 

 tip of the caudal. Radii of A. 9, without the first rudiment. 

 Base of the V. with a long flap. Caudal forked and with acute 

 points. Lateral line distinct, straight, but without any distinct 

 keel. Scales about 52. The general color is brownish, darker 

 above, and spotted or indistinctly marbled with darker brown. 

 Along the sides are 9 large, well-defined dark brown blotches which 

 are disposed at regular intervals. All the fins and also the man- 

 dible are barred with brown. Total length of the specimens 

 3y\, 2^ and li| inches. 



Named for Dr. Benjamin Sharp. 



14. Saurida tumbil (Bloch). 



Salmo tumhll Bloch, Ichthyologie, Vol. 4. pt. 11, 1T97, p. 100, PI. 430. 

 Nos. 7,956 and 7,957. Dr. J. K. Towusend. 



MYOTOPHID^. 



15. Rhinoscopelus coruscans (Richardson). 



Mi/cti>p?iuni coruscans Kicliardson, Vovage of the Erebus and Terror ; 

 rchth., 1844-48, p. 40, Pi. 27, figs. 1^ 2, 3 and 4. 



Nos. 7,972 to 7,975. Xe.ir the Sandwich^Islands. Dr. W. H. 



Jones. 



16. Myctoplium >^p.'.' 



No. 14,897. Lat. 21= N.?, Ling. 151= W. Dr. W. H. 

 Jones. 



HSMIRAMPHID^. 



17. Hyporhaniplius ^r' 



Nos. 7,507 and 23,83S. Near the Sandwich Islands. Dr. W. 

 H. Jones. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 499 



18. Hemiramphus depauperatus Lay and Bennett. Plate XIX, fig. 3. 



HemirJtamphus depauperatus Lay and Bennett, Zool. Capt. Beechey's 

 Voyage, 1839, p. 66. 



Nos. 7,530 to 7,532. Thomas Xuttallaud Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



Form of the body elongate, strongly compressed, the greatest 

 depth contained in the total without the beak and caudal 7i to 7^ 

 times, and the head including the beak is contained in the entire 

 length of the fish not 3 times. The greatest depth of the head 

 which is in the occipital region is about ^ its length without the 

 beak, and the latter equals about f the length of the projecting 

 beak. The eye is situated in the upper anterior part of the head 

 and is contained in the space between its anterior margin and 

 the tip of the upper jaw 1^ times, in the length of the head from 

 the latter point to the margin of the opercles 4 times, in the 

 greatest depth of the head about twice, and once in the flat inter- 

 orbital space. In all these measurements of the eye the eye is 

 measured horizontally, as its shape is that of a somewhat con- 

 tracted ellipse, and the pupil is also the same .shape, and larger 

 than the nasal aperture, which is placed anterior to the eye and 

 superior in position. The internasal region is equal to the vertical 

 diameter of the eye. The rostral flap is produced considerably 

 anterior to the tip of the upper jaw. Gill-rakers numerous, 

 i=itrong, the longest about equal to the pupil of the eye, but the 

 last are not as large as the others. Branchiostegal radii about 12, 

 and in all the examples those on the left ceratohyal overlap those 

 on the right. Top of the head with pores and somewhat laterally 

 and above the prseoperculum rugose tracts are seen. Origin of the 

 P. superior, on b level with the upper margin of the eye, and but 

 little behind the posterior margin of the branchial-aperture, about 

 equal to the head in length (without beak), and much longer than 

 the base of the D., its length contained in the space between its 

 origin and that of the V. twice. Radii of P. I. 10. The oi-igins 

 of the V. nearer the tip of the P. than the base of the caudal and 

 nearer the latter than the branchial-aperture, before the origin of 

 the D. and reaching more than half-way in the space between 

 their own bases and that of the A. Radii of V. 6, rather short 

 and flattened, and the innermost the strongest. Xearly ^ of the 

 D. is anterior to the origin of the A., whose base is about f the 

 leuorth of that of the D. The radii of the D. differ from the 




-OOO PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900, 



number given by Lay and Bennett, as there are 14 in all 3 of 

 these examples, and there are also a few small scales at the bases 

 of several of the foremost. As most of the rays of the fins have 

 been more or less damaged, it is not possible to give a comparison 

 of the length of the rays of the D., yet I do not think that the 

 second, if any longer at all than the third, was very much so, and 

 in 2 of the examples the last ray, which is better preserved than 

 some of the others, is longer than the shorter rays of the fin and 

 which immediatelv precede it. The radii of the A. vary from 12 

 to 14, the first the shortest, and the second and third the longest. 

 Caudal deeply forked, the lower lobe the longest and the rays 

 strengthened as in many of the other species. The rudimentary 

 caudal rays are flattened and the lower are much larger than the 

 lupper. Lateral line present, running inferiorly along the ventral 

 region to the lower rays of the caudal and its course traversing 

 about 60 scales, x^ so many of the scales have been lost and the 

 specimens have been in alcohol so many years, any traces of the 

 color in life would naturally be supposed to have disappeared, yet 

 there is a bright silvery lustre al)Out the head, and the eyes are 

 yellowish. Total length 13f inches, the beak measuring mostly 2^ 

 inches. 



EXOCCETID^. 



19. Parexoooetus mesogaster (Blot in. 



Uxoccettis mesogaster Bloch, Icbthyologie, Vol. 4, pt. 12. 1797. p. 1'2, 

 PI. 399. 



No. 7,482. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



20. Exocoetus volitans hiuuaus. 



Exocmtus volitans Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, 175S, p. 31G. 

 No. 7,457. Dr. W. H. Jones. 



AULOSTOMID^. 



21. Aulostomus cMnensis (Linnaus). 



Fistnlitria c/ditc/isis Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, 17G6, p. 515. 

 No. 9,763. Oahu. Dr. W. H. Jones. 



MUGILID^. 



22. Mugil kelaartii <^untlicr. 



Mnuil fcelaartii Gunther, Cat. Fi:«h, Brit. Mus., Ill, 1?6], p. 429. 

 Nos. 9,804 and 9,805. Dr. AV. IL Jones. 

 Scales about 33; D. XL I, 8; A. Ill, 9; P. extending to the 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 501 



eleventh scale of the lateral line and to the origin of the D. and 

 shorter than the head; base of the A. not quite as long as the 

 longest D. ray, both fins scaly; 19 scales between the tip of the snout 

 and the origin of the D. ; adipose eyelids broad, and the maxillary 

 is entirely hidden ; caudal emarginate and scaly ; total length 7 to 

 7y|- inches. 



SPHYR^NID^. 



23. Sphyraena commersonii Cuvicr aud Valencienues. 



Sphyrcena Commersonii CuTier and Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., 

 Ill, 1829, p. 260. 



No. 11,459. Dr. W. H. Jones. 



POLYNEMID^. 



24. Polydactylus pfeifferi (Bleekei). 



Polynemus Ffeifferi Bleaker, Natuurk. Tijdsch. voor Nederl. Indie, 

 Deel IV, (New Series I) 1853, p. 249. 



Nos. 11,504 to 11,507. Dr. W. H. Jones. 



HOLOCENTRID^. 



25. Myripristis murdjan (Forskal). 



Scimnamurdjan Yox&k&l, Descript. Animal., 1775, p. 48. 

 No. 17,122. (Dried skin.) Dr. J. K. Townsend. 

 No. 22,947. Honolulu. Dr. Benjamin Sharp. 



26. Holocentrus diadema Lacfipede. 



Holoocntrxa diadema Lacepede, Hist. Nat. Poiss., Ill, 1801, PI. 32, fig. 

 4 ; IV, 1801, pp. 372 and 374. 



No. 17,125. (Dried skin.) Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



27. Holocentrus diploxiphus Ganther. 



Holocentrum diploxiphus Giinther, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1871, p. 

 660. 



Nos. 17, 124 and 17, 126. (Dried skins. ) Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



OARANaiDiE. 



28. Trachurops crumenophtlialmus (Bloch). 



Scomber crumenophthalmus Bloch, Ichthyologie, Vol. 4, pt. 10, 1797, 

 p. 65, PL 343. 



Nos. 11,280 and 11,281. Dr. W. H. Jones. 



29. Caranx latus Agassi^ 



Caranx ?«^.<s Agassiz, Genera et species Pisci. Brasiliam, 1829, p. 105, 

 tab. LVI6., fig. 1. 



Nos. 22,948 and 22,949. Honolulu. Dr. Benjamin Sharp. 



33 




502 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



EQUULID^. 



30. Equula sp.? 



No. 15,231. Dr. W. H. Jones. 



KUHLID^. 



31. KuMia malo (Cuvier and Valenciennes). 



Dules malo Cuvier and Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., VII, 1831. p. 

 360. 



No. 17,099. (Dried skin.) Dr. J. K. Townsend. 

 Nos. 22,922 and 22,923. Dr. Benjamin Sharp. 



CHEILODIPTERID^. 



32. Apogon sp.? 



Nos. 13,434 to 13,437. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



SERRANID^. 



33. Epinephelus fuscoguttatus (ForskM). 



Perca summara, var. Fusco-guttata, Forskal, Descript. Animal, 1775^ 

 p. 42. 



No. 13,403. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



LUTIANID^. 



34. Aprion microlepis (Blceker). 



Clia'toplerus microlepis Bleeker, Versl. Mededeel. Konink. Akad. 

 Weteusch., Tweede Keeks, Derde Deel, 1869, p. 80. 



No. 13,290. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



SPARID^. 



35. Sparosomus unicolor (Qtioy nml (iaimard). 



Chnisiiphrvs unicolor Quoy and Gaimard, Vojage de I'Urauie, Zool., 

 1824, p. 299. 



No. 12,32(5. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



CIRRHITIDuE. 



36. Cirrhites forsteri (Blooh and Schneider*. 



Orammistes i''ors<m Blocb and Sclnieider, Syst. Ichth., 1801, p. 191. 



No. 12,220. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



No. 17,253. (Dried skin.) Thomas ^uttlall. 



No. 17,254. (Dried skin.) Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



Nos. 22,944 to 22,940. Honolulu. Dr. Benjamin Sharp. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 503 



POMACENTRID^. 



37. Tetradrachmum trimaculatum (RUppell). 



Pomaccntrits trimaculntus Eiippell, Atlas zu der Eeise im Nordl. 

 Afrika, 1828, p. 39, taf. 8, fig. 3. 



Nos. 9,615 to 9,618. Thomas Xuttall. 

 No. 9,619. Oahu. Dr. W. H. Jones. 



38. Eupomacentrus nigricans (Lac6pede). 



Holocentrun nigricans Lacepede, Hist. Nat. Poiss., IV, 1801, pp. 332, 

 367 and 370. 



Nos. 9,661 and 9,662. Oahu. Dr. W. H. Jones. 



Form of the body short, much compressed, and the greatest 

 depth contained in the total length, without caudal, about 1^ times. 

 The head is small, contained in the body, without caudal, 3| 

 times and in the greatest depth of the body a little over twice. 

 Eye placed superior and anterior to the centre of the head in which 

 it is contained 3 times. The eye is also a little smaller than 

 the interorbital space, Avliich is strongly convex and contained itself 

 24 times in the head. Nostrils placed anterior to the eye to which 

 they are nearer than the tip of the snout, though they are a little 

 below the level of the pupil. The orbitals are broad, though none 

 attaia a breadth equal to the diameter of the eye, those situated 

 postero-inferiorly with the lower margin with very distinct denti- 

 culations and equal to at least f the breadth of the prteorbitals. 

 Lips and jaws naked, without any scales. Mouth small, reaching 

 as far as the anterior margin of the eye. Teeth compressed and 

 in a single band-like series. The pra?operculum slopes forward, 

 the postei'ior margin denticulate and the lower margin smooth, and 

 the angle would be formed anterior to the posterior margin of the 

 eye in Ihe vertical and also a little below the base of the upper- 

 most P. rays. The operculum is furnished superiorly with 2 small 

 spinous processes along the posterior edge. The profile-line of the 

 head from the snout to the origin of the D. is convex, though 

 compressed in the occipital region. The origin of the D. is at a 

 point directly over that of the P. and both are posterior to the 

 posterior opercular margins; radii XIII, 17, the median branched 

 rays produced, much higher than the spinous part of the fin, the 

 base of the posterior ray more posterior in position than the same 

 of the A. and with the result that the tip of the former approaches 

 nearer the tip of the caudal than the latter. Upper part of the 




504 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



base of the P. nearly level with the mouth, radii 20, not extend- 

 ing so far posteriorly as the ^^. and about equal to the length of the 

 head. Origin of the V. posterior to the same of the P., radii I, 

 5, and the first ray ^\ith a filament-like point which reaches the 

 anus. Origin of the A. below that of the soft D., radii II, 14, 

 the soft part of the fin similar to the soft D., and the first spine 

 greatly inferior to the second in size. Body covered with scales, 

 except the hps, jaws and the edges of the D., A. and caudal, and 

 also the greater part of the P. and all of the V. The P. without 

 scaly flap, though several of the scales above its base are enlarged, 

 and the scales on the base of the fin itself minute. The V. are 

 furnished with scaly flaps and there is also one between their bases. 

 The scales along the base of the unpaired fins, with the exception 

 of those at the base of the spinous D., which are as large as those 

 on the sides of the body, are all very small and extend over the 

 greater part of the fins. There is a line of demarcation between 

 the bases of these fins showing where the fin-rays articulate with 

 the interneural and interhajmal spines. Caudal deeply emargiuate 

 and the upper lobe a little longer than the lower. The lateral line 

 is strongly arched and not extending as far posteriorly as the last 

 A. ray. Scales about 32, tubes 20. The caudal peduncle is 

 rather strong and much compressed, and its depth is more than ^ 

 the length of the head. In alcohol these specimens are dark 

 brownish with the bases of the soft D. and A., and also the cau- 

 dal, spotted. The P. shows faint traces of spot? or blotches. 

 Entire length about 4J inches. 



39. Abudefdnf sordidus (Forsk&l). 



Chmtodon sordidus Forskal, Descript. Animal., 1775, p. 6'2. 

 No. 9,600. Dr. J. K. Townseud. 

 No. 9,613. Oahu. Dr. W. H. Jones. 

 No. 17,214. (Dried skin.) Dr. J. K. Townsend.' 



40. Abudefduf sexfasciatus (Liu-OixMo).'; 



Labrus sexfasciatus Laci'pede, Hist. Nat. Poiss., Ill, ISOl. pp. 430 and 

 477, PI. 19, fig. 2. 



Nos. 9,604 and 9,605. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



No. 15,228. Oahu. Dr. W. H. Jones. 



41. Abudefduf limbatus (Cuvicr and Valenciennes). 



Olyphisodon limbatus Cuvier and Yalencienues, Hist. Nat. Poiss.. V, 

 1830, p. 357. 



No. 17,215. (Dry skin.) Dr. J. K. Townseud. 




1900.] >'ATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 505 



The form of the body somewhat ellipsoid, compressed, the 

 snout not conspicuously or abruptly blunt and with the greatest 

 depth of the body contained in its length without the caudal 

 twice. The head is contained in the body without caudal S^^ 

 times, and the head is about equal to h the greatest depth of the 

 body. The eye is superior and anterior in position, a little over 

 3 in the head and its diameter greater than the snout. Nostril very 

 near the front margin of the eye and slightly inferior to its centre. 

 Orbitals broad, none equal to the eye, the anterior the deepest 

 and about equal to f the eye and the margin of the praeoperculum 

 is distant from the posterior margin of the eye about the same. 

 Mouth small, most likely reaching to the front of the eye when 

 closed. The orbitals are furnished with a single series of scales 

 below the eyes, but they do not reach as far as the anterior margin 

 of the eye. The margin of the prteoperculum is inclined for- 

 wards and the angle would form below the posterior margin of the 

 eye in the vertical. There are four series of scales on the cheeks. 

 The snout, lips aod chin are naked. Teeth long, uarroNV, iu a 

 single series and with the apical portion slightly serrate. Origins 

 of both the V. and P. in advance of the D. , the former furnished 

 with a scaly flap and the P. with the scales enlaf-ged above its base. 

 The basal third of the P. covered with minute scales, the radii 

 of the fin about 20, the radii of the V. I, 4, the first soft ray pro- 

 duced (the tip of which is broken) and reaching for about f the 

 distance from its base to the oi'igin of the A., and entirely destitute 

 of scales. The spinous D. much longer than the soft T)., but not 

 equal to the latter in height, radii XII, 18, the first spine the shortest, 

 the next longer and all the rest still longer and about equal. The 

 base of the D. is covered with scales, those on the spinous D. larger 

 and entirely covering the basal half of that portion of the fin, while 

 those on the soft D. are rather minute. Origin of the A. below 

 the last D. spine, radii II, 13, the soft part of the fin similar to 

 the soft D. and also covered with minute scales though there are 

 some large ones anteriorly. Caudal peduncle broad and com- 

 pressed. Last ray of D. not reaching as far posteriorly as the last 

 A. ray. Caudal deeply emarginate, the upper lobe the longest and 

 the basal part covered with minute scales. Lateral line not paral- 

 lel with the dorsal outline of the back, puncturing 21 scales and 

 stopping considerably short of the terminal branched D. rays in the 




506 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



vertical. Scales, about 30, in a lateral series to the base of the 

 caudal, and 3 scales between the lateral line and the profile-line of 

 the back at the articulations of the interueural and D. rays. Total 

 length 4J inches. 



LABRIDJE. 



42. Anampses cseruleopunctatus luippell. 



Anampses coeruleopunetatus Riippell, Atlas zu der Reise im Nordl. 

 Afrika, 1828, p. 42, taf. 10, fig. 1. 



Nos. 9,622 and 9,623. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



43. Anampses cuvieri Quoy and Gaimard. 



Anampses Cuvier Quoy and Gaimard, Voyage de I'Uranie, Zool., 1824, 

 p. 276, PI. 55, fig. i. 



No. 9,624. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



Nos. 17,197, 17,198 and 17,212. (Dried skins.) Dr. J. K. 

 Townsend. 



Form of the body oblong, compressed, the greatest depth con- 

 tained in the total length exclusive of the caudal about 2^^ times 

 and the head in the same, excluding the opercular flap 3i times. 

 The head has a rhomboid appearance, due to the produced opercu- 

 lar flap which is not as long as the diameter of the eye. The eye 

 is situated in the upper anterior part of the head in which it is 

 contained, exclusive of the opercular flap, a trifle over 4 times, in 

 the snout about 1^ times, and in the iuterorbital space the same. 

 The angle formed by the suout would not be a right one. The 

 upper profile is concave in front of the interorbital space, then 

 straight to the occiput after which it is convex to the origin of 

 the D. The nostrils are placed anterior to the eye and not an 

 eye diameter distant, the anterior a little lower than the posterior 

 pair which are placed about midway in the space between the 

 anterior pair and the anterior margin of tiie eye. The prieorbital 

 greater than the diameter of the eye, and the infraorbitals barely ^ 

 the diameter of the eye, botli are unevenly striated. ]Mouth pro- 

 tractile, capable of considerable distension, furnished with 4 con- 

 spicuous projecting compressed teeth which are turned forwards 

 and provided with a grinding edge; there are two teeth in each 

 jaw, the lower pair are closer together than the upper and fit in 

 between the latter wheu the jaws are closed. The corners of the 

 closed mouth fall a little posterior to the anterior nostrils in the 

 vertical. The lips are well developed and fleshy. The pnvoj^er- 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 507 



culum, operculum, suboperculum and the interoperculum striated. 

 The entire head is naked, the snout, interorbital and cranial regions 

 have the skin finely roughened, the cheeks smooth. The angle of 

 the prffioperculum, Avhich would be an obtuse one, falls below the 

 posterior margin of the eye. Branchial aperture moderate, gill- 

 membranes united to the isthmus, gill-slits small and the gill-rakers 

 also small and short. Pseudobranchije developed. Origin of the 

 D. in advance of that of the P., which is in advance of the ori- 

 gin of the v., about over the posterior margin of the operculum 

 (the flap excluded). The T>. spines are firm, the first the shortest, 

 the next larger, and the third longer and together Avith the others 

 about equal, though none are as high as the highest soft rays. The 

 P. shorter than the head, though longer than the V., which are 

 attenuated, having their first rays reaching the anus, and they 

 have the basal portion of the innermost ray connected with the 

 body by a membrane. The origin of the A. falls below the first 

 ray of the soft D., and also the tip of the P. which reaches that 

 "far posteriorly. The A. spines are much shorter than any of the 

 rays of the fin, and they are graduated from the first, which is the 

 smallest, to the third. The soft A. rays of nearly equal height, 

 though the terminal one is the shortest and not situated as far pos- 

 teriorly as the last soft D. ray, yet both reach the base of the 

 caudal. No scales along the bases of any of the fins except some 

 at the base of the caudal, which are very fine. The lateral line is 

 not absolutely parallel with the dorsal outline of the back, travers- 

 ing about 20 scales in the form of single tubes, when it decurves 

 and runs along the sides of the caudal peduncle to the base of 

 the caudal. Each scale is furnished with a small rounded whitish 

 spot. The D. and A., together with the head, are also furnished 

 with similar spots, and on the former there are several longitu- 

 dinal lines. All the spots of the dorsal region of the body much 

 smaller than those on the sides and the scales being also smaller 

 they appear to form longitudinal bands. The measurements, fin 

 formulae, scales, etc. , as follows : 



No. 9,624. No. 17,197. No. 17,198. No. 17,212. 



Total length 5f| in. 4yV in. 7| in. 8^ in. 



Scales 29 ? 29 27 28 



Radii of D IX, 12 IX, 12 IX, 12 IX, 12 



Eaclii of A Ill, 12 III, 12 III, 12 III, 12 



EadiiofP 1,12 1,12 1,12 I, ]2 



Kadii of Y 5 5 5 5 




508 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



44. Stethojulis albovittata (Lac6p6cle). 



Lahrus albovittntus Lacepede, Hist. Nat. Poiss., Ill, 1801, pp. 443 and 

 509. 



Nos. 9,415 and 9,418. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



45. Stethojulis axillaris (Quoy andGaimard). 



. Julis axillaris Quoy and Gaimard, Voyage de I'Uranie, Zool., 1824, 

 p. 272. 



Nos. 9,407 to 9,414. Oahu. Dr. ^Y. H. Jones. 



Nos. 9,419 to 9,420. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



46. Macropharyngodon geoffroyi (Quoy and Gaimard). 



Julis Geoff )'oy Quoy and Gaimard, Voyage de TUranie, Zool., 1824, p. 

 270. 

 No. 17,196. (Dried skin.) Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



47. Hemipteronotus copei sp. nov. Plate XX, fig. I. 



No. 521. Type. Oahu. Dr. W. H. Jones. 



Form of the body elongated, much compressed, deepest in the 

 pectoral region, from which it diminishes backwards to the caudal. 

 The greatest depth is contained in the total length, without caudal, 

 3 times. The head is elevated, 3^ times in the total length, with- 

 out caudal, much compressed, snout not produced and the anterior 

 profile very parabolic though slightly convex. Lower profile line 

 of the head a very slightly inclined oblique line. The eye is 

 situated in the upi)er part of the head, nearly median in its 

 length, about once its diameter from the occiput, contained in the 

 greatest depth of the head about 0^ times, contained in the space 

 between its anterior margin and the tip of the upper jaw 3 times, 

 contained in the total length of the head 6J times and it is also 

 equal to the interorbital space. The interorbital space is convex 

 and greatly produced. The nares are small, both very close 

 together, the anterior pair about an eye diameter from the anterior 

 margin of the eye. The i)nvorbital is very long and broad, the 

 infraorbitals narrow and about equal to half an eye diameter. 

 Mouth narrow, the distal extremity of the maxillary below the 

 anterior margin of the eye in the vertical. Teeth strong, the 

 outer lateral teeth larger than the olhei*s except the canines which 

 are in two pairs on the anterior portions of the jaws, those in the 

 lower jaw closer together than the upper pair and fitting in lietweeu 

 the latter when the mouth is closed. The lips are largo and fioshy, 

 those on the sides of the lower jaw forming 2 thin flaps. Mouth 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 509 



beiow the upper basal portion of the P. The angle of the prseo- 

 perculum is a very obtuse one, and would form very little posterior 

 to the posterior margin of the eye. The opercular bones, which 

 shield the branchial aperture, have their lower and posterior mar- 

 gins furnished with membraneous flaps. The gill-membranes are 

 very thick and tough, though they are not connected with the 

 isthmus. Gill-rakers moderate. Pseudobranchiffi developed. 

 The head is naked, except a series of 6 scales, which descend 

 obliquely forwards from the postorbitals, though not extending 

 anterior to the centre of the eye in the vertical. There are also 2 

 scales, anterior and superior, on the upper margin of the opercu- 

 lum. The origin of the D. is at a point a trifle posterior to the 

 median vertical keel of the pneoperculum. The first radii of the 

 D. are developed as 2 pungent spines, the tip of the first ending 

 in a short filament, and about the same height as the spines which 

 succeed them and which are rather strong and firm and not at all 

 pungent. The branched rays of the D. are longer than the spines 

 and the terminal ray, when depressed, reaches the base of the 

 caudal. D. II, VII, 12. Origin of the A. below the first D. 

 ray and the terminal ray is produced like the same of the D., so 

 that when it is depressed it also reaches the base of the caudal. 

 Spines of the A. short, graduated from the first to the third, which 

 is the longest, and the radii of the fin III, 12. Base of the last 

 A. ray slightly posterior to that of the soft D. The P. is con- 

 tained If times in the head, radii of the fin I, 11, and their origins 

 are below the centre of the body and above the origin of the V. 

 Innermost ventral ray joined to the body by a membrane and the 

 tips of the fin do not reach the origin of the A. though they 

 extend beyond the tips of the P. The lateral line with 24 single 

 tubes, the greater portion parallel with the dorsal outline of the 

 back from which it is distant a scale's breadth, interrupted after 

 traversing 20 scales, then appearing on the caudal peduncle in a 

 medio-lateral position and continuing to the base of the caudal. 

 There are 26 scales in a lateral series from the operculum to the 

 base of the caudal. Caudal rounded. A narrow bluish band from 

 the lower anterior portion of the eye running downwards to behind 

 the corner of the mouth, parallel with this are other vertical lines 

 running from the eye and the upper part of the head, one on the 

 prseoperculum is broad and the opercles are furnished with narrow 




510 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



lines on their posterior portion. General color dull brownish, the 

 fins immaculate. Total length 7^ inches. 

 Named for Prof. E. D. Cope. 



48. Thalassoma aneitensis (GUntherj. 



Jalis aneitensis Giiather, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mas., IV, 1862, p. 183. 

 Nos. 9,431 to 9,434. Oahu. Dr. W. H. Jones. 



49. Thalassoma hebraica (Lac6p6de). 



Labrus Hebraieiis Lacepede, Hist. Xat. Poiss., Ill, 1801, pp. 455 and 

 526, PI. 29, fig. 3. 



No. 9,426. Dr. J. K. Towusend. 



No. 17,201. (Dry skin.) Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



50. Thalassoma purpurea (Forskali. 



Scams purpureus Forskal, Descript. Animal., 1775, p. 27. 



Nos. 17,199 and 17,202. (Dried skins.) Dr. J. K. Town- 

 send. 



No. 17,200 (Dry skin.) Thomas Nuttall. 



51. Halichoeres ^i> ' 



No. 17,l!)o. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



52. Gomphosus tricolor Qnoy and Gaimard. 



Gomphosux tricolor Qnoy and Gairaard, Voyage de PUranie, Z)ol., 

 1824, p. 280, PI. 55, fig. 2. 



No. 9,406. Dr. .J. K. Townsend. 



No. 17,213. (Dry skin.) Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



53. Gomphosus varius LacOpede. 



Gomphosus varius Lacepc'de, Hist. Xat. Poiss., Ill, 1801, pp. 100 and 

 104, PI. 5, fig. 2. 



Nos. 9,404 and 9,40.5. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



54. Coris gaimardi (Qnoy ami (Jaimard;. 



Julis IJaiinird Quoyaud Gaimard, Voyage de I'Uranie, Zool.. l'*24, p. 

 265, PI. 54, fig. 1. 



No. 9,330. Dr. J. K. Towusend. 



No. 17,203. (Dried skin.) Thomas Nuttall. 



55. Coris aygula LactpMe. 



Coris aygula Lacepede, Hist. Nat. Poiss., Ill, 1801, p. 96, PI. 4, fig. 1. 



Nos. 9,331 and 9,332. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



No. 17,207 (Dried skin.) Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



The form of the body is elongate, the depth is contained in the 

 total length about 4^ times and the head in the same 4^ times. 

 The anterior profile of the head is in the form of an isosceles triau- 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 511 



gle. The eye is placed anterior and superior in the head, about 

 equal to the praeorbital, which is broad and contained in the head 

 about 4§ times and is also about equal to the interorbital space. 

 The depth of the head is contained If in its length, and the P. 

 about the same. Nostrils small and anterior to the eye. Four 

 canines in the anterior part of each jaw, the two median lower 

 ones fitting in between the upper pair, both of these median pairs 

 inclined and considerably larger than the others, which are nearly 

 vertical. Remaining teeth diminish in size as they approach the 

 corners of the mouth. Lips rather thick. The head is furnished 

 with pores on the prreoperculum and there is also a rather imperfect 

 circumorbital system. The posterior margin of the operculum is 

 produced into a fleshy flap which is a trifle less than the diameter 

 of the eye. The origin of the D. falls a little behind the origins 

 of the P. and V. Radii of D. IX, 12, the spines much shorter 

 than the rays, the first the shortest and the last spine the longest, 

 soft rays equal and the terminal like the same of the A. reach to 

 the base of the caudal. Origin of the A. nearly below the last 

 D. spine, the radii III, 12, the first spine the shortest and the 

 third the longest, but more equal to the soft rays. The V. not so 

 long as the P., radii of the former I, 5, and of the latter I, 11. 

 Scales in the posteriorly decurved latei'al line about 50. Scales of 

 the occipital region small. Caudal rounded. Opercular flap with 

 a black posterior marginal spot. Base of the soft D. with brown- 

 ish spots and the bases of the terminal rays with a distinct blackish 

 ocellus. Total length of the alcoholic specimens about 5 J inches. 



56. Coris flavovittata (Bennutt). 



JuUs flavo-vittatus Bennett, Zoological Journal. IV, 1829, p. 36. 

 No. 9,333. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 

 No. 17,208. (Dried skin.) Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



■57. Cheilio inermis (Forskal). 



Labrus inermis Forskal, Descript. Animal., 1775, p. 34. 



No. 9,311. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



Nos. 9,312-14. Oahu. Dr. W. H. Jones. 



SCARIDJE. 



58. Scarichtliys auritus (Cuvier and Valenciennes). 



Scar us auritus Cuvier and Valenciennes, Hist. Nat Poiss., XIV, 1839, 

 p. 161. 



No. 436. Dr. J. K. Town.send. 




512 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



59. Cryptotomus sandwicensis (Cuvierand Valencieimes). 



Colly odon sandwicensis Cuvier and Valenciennes, Hist. Xat. Poiss., 

 XIV, 1839, p. 219. 



Nos. 9,316 and 9,317. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



60. Scarus oviceps Cuvier and Valenciennes. 



Scarus oviceps Cavier and Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., XIV, 1839, 

 p. 181. 



Nos. 9,277 and 9,278. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



CIL^TODONTID^. 



61. Forcipiger longirostris (Cuvier and Valenciennes). 



CJuetodon longirostris Cuvierand Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., VII, 

 1831, p. 67, PI. 175. 



No. 23,324. (Dry Skin.) Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



62. Chaetodon miliaris Quoy and Gaimard. 



ClioBtodon miliaris Quoy and Gaimard, Voyage de I'Uranie, Zool., 1824, 

 p. 380, PI. 62, fig. 6. 



Nos. 12,299 and 12,300. Oahu. Dr. W. H. Jones. 



No. 17,257. (Dry skin.) Thomas Nuttall. 



No. 17,258. (Dry skin. ) Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



63. Chaetodon setifer Bloch. 



Glmtodon setifer Bloch, Ichthyologie, Vol. 4, pt. 12, 1797, p. 99, PI. 

 426, fig. 1. 



No. 12,295. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



64. Chaetodon biocellatus Cuvier and Valenciennes. 



Chatodon biocellatus Cuvier and Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss.. VII, 

 1831, p. 48. 



No. 12,296. Oahu. Dr. W. H. Jones. 



No. 17,263. (Dry skin.) Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



65. Chaetodon unimaculatus Bloch. 



Chatodon nnimaculntus Bloch, Ichthyologie, Vol. 2. pt. 6. 17SS. p. 54, 

 PI. 201, fig. 1. 



No. 17,176. (Dry skin.) Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



66. Chaetodon quadrimaculatus Gray. 



Chmtodon 4-maciilatiis Gray, Zoological Miscellany. 1831-42, p. 33. 

 Chcetodon quadrimaculatus Giiuther, Cat. Fish. Brit. ]Mns., II, 1860, 

 p. 12. 



Nos. 12,297 and 12,298. Oahu. Dr. AV. H. Jones. 

 No. 17,175. (Dry skin.) Dr. J. K. Townsend. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 513 



67. Chaetodon ornatissimus Cmier and Valenciennes. 



Chmtodon ornatissimus Cuvier and Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., 

 VII, 1831, p. 22. 



No. 17,259. (Dry skin.) Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



68. Chsetodon tau-uigrum Cuvier and Valenciennes. 



Ghretodon tau-nigrum Cuvier and Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., VII, 

 1831, p. 29. 



No. 12,292. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



ZANOLID^. 



69. Zanclus cornutus (Linnanis). 



Chmtodon cornutus Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, 1758, p. 273. 

 Nos. 11,059 and 11,060. Dr. W. H. Jones. 

 No. 17,174. (Dry skin.) Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



TEUTHIDIDuJB. 



70. Monoceros unicornis (Forskal). 



OhoBtodon unicornis Forskal, Dsscript. Animal., 1775, p. 63. 



Nos. 9,768 and 9,769. Oahu.' Dr. W. H. Jones. 

 Nos. 10,337 to 10,339. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 

 No. 17,285. (Dry skin.) Dr. J. K. Townsend. 

 No. 17,286. (Dry skin.) Thomas Nuttall. 



71. Teuthis triostegus (Linnreus). 



ChcBtodon triostegus Linnseus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, 1758, fig. 270. 

 Nos. 10,295 and 10,296. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 

 Nos. 10,297 to 10,313. Oahu. Dr. W. H. Jones. 

 No. 17,277. (Dry skin.) Thomas Nuttall. 



72. Teuthis guttatus (Bloch and Schneider). 



Acantlmrus Guttatus Bloch and Schneider, Syst. Ichth., 1801, p. 215. 

 No. 17,279. (Dyskin.) Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



73. Teuthis annularis (Cuvier and Valenciennes). 



Acanthurus annularis Cuvier and Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., X, 

 1835, p. 153. 



Nos. 10,327 to 10,331. Oahu. Dr. W- H. Jones. 



Nos. 10,333 to 10,336. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



74. Teuthis acMUes (Shaw). 



Acanthurus Achilles Shaw, General Zoology, IV, 1803, p. 383. 

 Nos. 10,319 to 10,321. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 

 No. 17,280. Dr. J. K. Townsend. , , 




514 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



BALISTID^. 



75. Balistapus bursa (Bloch and Schneider). 



Balistes BursaBloch and Schneider, Syst. Ichth., 1801, p. 476. 

 No. 16,473. Dr. W. H. Jones. 



76. Balistapus rectangulus (Bloch and Schneider). 



Balistes Rectangulus Bloch and Schneider, Syst. Ichth., 1801, p. 465. 

 No. 790. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



77. Canthidermis oculatus C^'ray). 



Balistes oculatus Gray, Illustrations of Indian ZooL, 1, 1830-32, PI. 90, 

 figs. 1 and la. 



Nos. 802 and 803. Dr. J K. Townsend. 



MONAOANTHIDJE. 



78. Cantherines sandwichiensis (Quoy and Gaimard). 



Balistes sandwichiensis Quoy and Gaimard, Voyage de I'Uranie, Zool., 

 1824, p. 214. 



No. 1,032. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



79. Monacanthus spilosoma Lay and Rennet. 



Moit.acaiitlias Spilosoiiia Lay and Bennett, Zool. Capt. Beechey's Voy- 

 age, 1839, p. 70, ri. XX, fig. 4. 



No. 17,309. (Dried skin.) Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



TETRAODONTID^. 



80. Spheroides florealis (Cope). Plate XX, fig. i. 



Tetrodon florealis Cope, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc., (new ser.) XIV, 

 1871, p. 479. 



Nos. 1,109 and 1,110. Types of Tetrodon florealis Cope. Dr. 



J. K. Townsend. 



No. 17,336. (Dried skin.) Dr. J. K. Townsend. . 



MOLID^. 



81. Ranzauia makua Jenkins. 



Itamania makua Jenkins, Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci., (2) V, 1895, Colored 

 frontispiece, p. 779. 



No. 17,369. (Fine dried skin.) Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



It is interesting to observe that this specimen was taken nearly 

 sixty years before the one described by Dr. Jenkins, and even 

 yet it sliows well-preserved traces of its once brilliant colors. The 

 markings of the head are especially distinct, and are in the form 

 of somewhat irregular crescents, with the convex side bending 

 anteriorly. Three of these markiuc:s radiate from the inferior 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 515 



margin of the eye, though there is 1 anterior to these and more 

 horizontal, and they all become more vertical posteriorly. There 

 are also 2 broad vertical bars between the eye and the P. On the 

 sides of the head below and somewhat posterior to the eyes and 

 anterior to the base of the P. are a number of blackish spots 

 which are distributed over the bands. P. 13; D. 19; A. 20; 

 Caudal 22. Total length of the l)ody without the caudal 18f 

 inches. 



SCORP^NID^. 



82. Sebastopsis guamensis (Quoy and Gaimard). 



Scorpmna guamensis Quoy and Gaimard, Yoyase de I'Uraoie, ZooL, 

 1824, p. 326. 



No. 12,207. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



83. Sebastopistes strongia (Cuvier and Valenciennes). 



ScorpcEna strongia Cuvier and Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., IV, 

 1829, p. 237. 



No. 12,206. Dr. J. Iv. Townsend. 



This .poorly preserved specimen has the following fin formula: 



D. XII, 10; A. Ill, 5; P. 16; Y. I, 5. 



84. Scorpaenenopsis diabolus (Cuvier and Valenciennes). 



Scorpcfna diabolus Cuvier and Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., IV, 

 1829, p. 229. 



No. 17,165. (Dried skin.) Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



CARAOANTHID^. 



85. Caracanthus maculatus (Gray). Plate XX, tig. 5. 



Micropus maculatus Gray, Zoological Miscellany, 1831-42, p. 20. 



No. 23,048. Honolulu. Dr. Benjamin Sharp. 



Head and body greatly compressed, the greatest depth of the 

 latter about 1\ in its length without the caudal. Upper profile of 

 the head somewhat parabolic. Eye over once in the snout, greater 

 than the interorbital space and about 3 J in the head without the 

 opercular flap. Head 2^ in the body without the caudal. Nares 

 well developed, the posterior pair the largest. Mouth rather broad, 

 horizontal, when closed the jaws are equal and also furnished with 

 small teeth. Lips moderately developed. The maxillarv, which 

 is very o])]ique, extends posteriorly for § of the diameter of the 

 eye. The preorbital is armed with a broad sharp spine projecting 

 obliquely downwards parallel with the maxillary. The inter- 




510 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



o[)ercuIum is armed with a spine and the prseoperculura has 5 

 curved spines along its posterior margin, the lower the largest. 

 On the upper posterior part of the operculum are 2 broad flattened 

 spines. The top of the head and the interorbital space is vil- 

 losely osseous and over the eyes are 2 larger ossifications. The 

 branchial aperture is moderate, lateral in position, and the gill-mem- 

 branes are joined to the isthmus which is large and fleshy. Gill- 

 rakers moderate, most numerous |)osteriorly. Pseudobranchitc Avell 

 developed. No slit after the last gill-arch. Origin of the D. over 

 the tips of the opercular spines, a little before that of the P., and 

 the fin is divided, the spinous portion with YIII spines and the soft 

 portion with 12 rays the last of which is adnate, along its posterior 

 margin to the caudal peduncle by a membrane. The third D. 

 spine is the longest and the second is longer than the seventh and 

 eighth, while the soft rays are more even, those anteriorly the 

 longest, and the rays gradually become shorter posteriorly. P. with 

 VIII simple and 5 branched rays. V. more or less rudimentary 

 radii I, o. A. spines II, isolated from the soft rays of the fin 

 which are 12, and the last is adnate to the caudal peduncle by a 

 membrane. The 2 spines of the A. are a little posterior to the 

 origin of the soft D. The lateral line is conspicuous and runs from 

 above the branchial aperture to the base of the caudal. Body 

 naked, papillose. Caudal small and rounded. Color in alcohol 

 brownish, much darker above and with numerous small round 

 whitish spots. Total length 1^ inches. 



CEPHALACANTHID^. 



86. Cephalacanthus orientalis (Cuvier and Valenciennes). 



Dactylopterus orientalis Cuvier and Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., 

 IV, 1829, p. 98, PI. 76. 



No. 11,643. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



No. 17,067. (Diiedskin.) Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



Nos. 23,351 and 23,352. Dr. W. H. Jones. 



QOBIID^. 



87. Eleotris fuscus (Rloch and Schneider). 



P(Ba7ta i^'MSca Bloch and Schneider, Syst. Iclitb., 1801, p. loo. 

 Nos. 22,924 to 22,943. Honolulu. Dr. Benjamin Sharp. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 517 



88. Gobius albopunctatus Cuvier .ind Valenciennes. 



Oobius albopunctatus Cuvier and Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., XII, 

 1837, p. 43. 



No. 10,703. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



89. Gobius papuensis Cuvier and Valenciennes. 



Gobius Papuensis Cuvier and Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss. , XII, 1837, 

 p. 80. 



No. 23, 350. Dr. Benjamin Sharp. 



90. Gobius sp.? 



Nos. 23,3-^5 to 23,348. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 

 More than one species may be included here, but the specimens 

 are so poorly preserved that I have not attempted to identify them. 



91. Awaous genivittatus (Cuvier and Valenciennes). 



Gobius genivittatus Cuvier and Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., XII, 

 1837, p. 48. 



No. 10,746 and 10,747. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



92. Awaous crassilabris(Gunther). 



Gobius crassilabi'is Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., Ill, 1861, p. 63. 

 Nos. 10,744 and 10,745. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



EOHENEIDID^. 



93. Bemora albescens (Temminckand Sclilegel). 



Echeneis albescens Temtninck and Schlegel, Fauna Japonica, Poiss., 

 1842, p. 27-2, PI. 120, fig. 3. 



No. 11,413. Thomas Nutialh 



BLENNID^. 



94. Petroskirtes filamentosus (Cuvier and Valenciennes). 



BlennccJtis filamentosus Cuvier and Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., XI, 

 1836, p. 206, Pis. 325, 326, lower fig. 



No. 16,666. Dr. W. H. Jones. 



95. Salarias edentulus (Bloch and Schneider). 



Blennius Edentulus Bloch and Schnei ler, S3-st. Ichth., 1801, p. 172. 

 No. 10,489. Dr. W. H. Jones. 



96. Salarias gibbifrons Quoy and Gaimard. 



Salarias gibbifrons Quoy and Gaimard, Voyage de I'Uranie, Zool., 

 1824, p. 253. 



No. 10,492. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



In this specimen the A. is marked with a number of spots. 

 34 




518 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



97. Salarias variolosus C'uvier and Valenciennes. 



Salarias variolosus Cuvier and Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., XI, 

 1836, p. 235. 



No. 10,493. Dr. W. H. Jones. 



?No. 10,494. Thomas Nuttall. 



Nuttall's specimen is very badly preserved. 



98. Salarias brevis Knor. 



Salarias brevis Kner, Sitzungb. Akad. Wissensch. Wien., LYIII, 1868, 

 p. 334, taf. 6, fig. 18. 



No. 10,495. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



BROTULID^. 



99. Brotula townsendi !=p. nov. Plate XX, fig. 3. 



No. 8,981. Type. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



Form of the body elongate, the gi-eatest depth a trifle over 5 

 in the tolal length. The head is compressed, and including the 

 opercular flap is contained in the total length about 5 times. The 

 eyes are anterior and high in the head, small, contained in the head 

 with opercular flap nearly 8 times, in the iuterorbital space 1^ times 

 and nearly 2 in the snout. i\Iouth rather large and prominent and 

 with the lower jaw jDrojecting. Lips large, thick and fleshy, there 

 are 4 superior buccal barbels of about equal length and 6 inferior 

 mandibular ones which are longer than the former. The anterior 

 nares which are near the posterior ])a.\r are furnished with a pair of 

 barbels which are also larger than the rest of the upper ones. The 

 anterior nares are about an eye diameter from the eyes, and their 

 aperture is smaller than that of the posterior pair. Teeth of the jaws, 

 vomer and palatines, small and in many series forming broad and 

 well-defined patches. The maxillary is oblique, very broad at the 

 distal extremity, reaching beyond the posterior margin of the eye, 

 and its width at that point is equal to the length of the snout. 

 The supplemental maxillary is well developed thus accounting for 

 its broad distal extremity. The maxillaries themselves are more 

 or less partly concealed by the orbital flap of skin. The branchial 

 aperture is large, the gill-membranes joined to each other and 

 crossing the isthmus but not joined to it. No pseudobranchise. 

 Gill-rakers as long as the eye and a slit after the last gill-arch. 

 On the superior and anterior part of the operculum is a partly 

 erectile spine directed backwards, which is about as long as 

 the eye. The V., which are bifid, are jugular in position, and 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 519 



their origin is not quite an eye diameter posterior to the distal 

 extremity of the maxillary, and their tips extend posteriorly as 

 far as the tips of the P., which is about half-way between the base 

 of the P. and the anus. The origin of the P. is anterior to that 

 of the D., and the fin is contained nearly twice in the head. The 

 D,, A. and caudal are continuous, the latter terminating in a 

 point. D. A. and caudal 176 ? Body covered with small cycloid 

 scales, about 96 in the lateral line. The lateral line is dorsal in 

 position and nearly parallel with the dorsal outline of the body 

 throughout its whole course. General color uniform brownish. 

 Total length 5 inches. 



Xamed for Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



ANTENNARID^. 



100. Antennarius commersonii (Lacepede). 



Lophius commerso7iii "Lace-pede, Hist. Xat. Poiss., I, 1801, p. 327. 

 Nos. 10,648 and 10;649. Thomas Xuttall and Dr. J, K. 

 Townsend. 



101. Antennarius sp.? 



No. 10,647. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 

 Specimen badly preserved. 



II. Tahiti. 



The collections illustrating the ichthyology of this region, in the 

 Academy, are those made by Dr. J. K. Townsend and Mr. 

 Andrew Garrett. Dr. Townsend's collection was made while on 

 his second Pacific expedition, and after the visit to the Sandwich 

 Islands. __ 



CLUPEID^. 



1. Sardinella atricauda (GUnther). 



Clupea atricauda Giintlier, Cat. Fish. Brit Mus., VII, 1868, p. 426. 

 Nos. 14,504 to 14,506. Andrew Garrett. 



SYNGNATHID^. 



2. Doryrhamphus brachyurus (Bleeker). 



Syngnathus hracliyurus Bleeker, Verhandel. Batavia. Genootsch. 

 Kunst. Wetensch., Deel XXV, 1853, p. 16. 



Xos.'14,848 to 14,868. Andrew Garrett. 




520 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Dumeril lias placed Dorichthys mille-pundafus of Kaup in the 

 synonymy of this species {Hist. Nat. Poiss., 1870, p. 575). 



SPHYR^NID^. 



3. Sphyraena commersonii Cuvier and Valenciennes. 



Sphyrcena Co??w«e/'syrajCavierand Yalenciennes, Hist. Xat. Poiss., Ill, 

 1829, p. 260. 



No. 11,466. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



HOLOOENTRID^. 



4. Holocentrus diploxiphus G anther. 



Holocentrum diploxiphus Giinther, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1871, p. 

 660. 



No. 14,140. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



MULLID^. 



5. Upeneoides vittatus (Forskil). 



JJ'dlus vittatus Forskal, Descript. Animal., 1775, p. 31. 

 Nos. 12,473 and 12,476. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



6. Upeneus trifasciatus (I^accpMc). 



Mullns tri.faseintus Lacupede, Hist. Xat. Poiss., Ill, 1801, pp. 383 and 

 404, PI. 15, fig. 1. 



No. 12,475. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



7. Upeneus pleurospilos Bleekcr. 



Upeneus jjleurospilos Bleeker, Natuurk. Tijdsch. voor Xederl. Indie, 

 Deel IV, (New Series I) 1853, p. 110. 



No. 12,474. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



KUHLID^. 



8. Kuhlia marginata (Cuvier and Valenciennes). 



Bides marginatus Cuvier and Valenciennes, Hist. Xat. Poiss., Ill, 1S29, 

 p. 87, PI. 52. 



Nos. 16,008 to 16,010. Andrew Garrett. 



9. Kuhlia malo (Cuvier and Valenciennes). 



JDules 7nalo Cuvier and Valenciennes, Hist. Xat. Poiss., VII, 1831 , p. oiiO. 

 No. 12,647. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



POMACENTRID^. 



10. Tetradrachmum aruanus (Linnaus). 



Ghcetodoa arnanus Liumeus, Sjst. Xat., Ed. X, 1758. p. 275. 

 Nos. 9,620 and 9,621. Andrew Garrett. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 521 



LABRID^. 



11. Pseudocheilinus hexataenia (Bleeker). 



Gheilinus 7iexat(enia Bleeker, Acta. Societ. Scient. lado Neerlandiose, 

 Vol. II, 1857, p. 84. 



Nos. 9,667 to 9,673. Andrew Garrett. 



SCORP^NID^. 



12. Sebastopsis guamensis (Quoy andGaimard). 



Scorpmna guamensis Quoy and Gaiuiard, Voyage de I'Uranie, Zool., 

 1824, p. 326. 



Nos. 12,192 to 12,198. Andrew Garrett. 



Body moderately elongate, robust, greatest depth in the region 

 of the P. and about 3 in the total length, excluding caudal. 

 Head 2|- in the body without the caudal, broad, somewhat conical, 

 and furnished with sharp spines, as the preocular, supraocular, 

 postocular, tympanic, parietal, nuchal, preopercular and opercu- 

 lar, all of which are present and many are furnished with small 

 filaments. Top of the head without occipital depression and the 

 iuterorbital space concave, not equal to the diameter of the eye. 

 Eye large, about 3^ in the head and nearly once in the snout. 

 Snout very protractile and with a depression between the premax- 

 illaries into which the slightly knobbed symphysis of the mandible 

 fits when the mouth is closed. Maxillaries broad distally and 

 extending posteriorly for nearly f the eye diameter. Villiform 

 teeth on the premaxillaries, dentaries and vomer, but none on the 

 palatines. Gill-rakers small, short and moderate in number. No 

 slit after the last gill-arch. Pseudobranchise well developed. The 

 gill-membranes are not broadly connected across the isthmus. 

 Branchiostegal radii strong, becoming larger, longer and more 

 robust as they ascend the ceratohyals which are rather broad. 

 The jaws are equal. Opercular flap scaly below like the rest of 

 the operculum and prseoperculum, also the region below the eyes 

 and on the top of the head. The branchial aperture is very large 

 and with a distinct depression. There is a small spine above the 

 P. near the opercular flap. Origin of the D. about over that of 

 the P., and both before the posterior edge of the opercular flap. 

 Base of the D. very long, the base of the terminal ray more pos- 

 terior than that of the terminal A. ray, and with its posterior 

 margin joined to the caudal peduncle by a membrane. The I'ays 

 of the soft D. exceed the length of the longest D. spine. The P. 




522 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



has an exceedingly broad base, inclining somewhat anteriorly, 

 radii of the fin very long, much longer than the V. , whose origin 

 is posterior to that of the P., and its tips reach beyond the anus 

 and nearly to the origin of the A. The inner V. ray is joined to 

 the body by a membrane at its base and the tips of the fins do not 

 reach the anus. The origin of the A. falls below that of the soft 

 D., the first sjDine is the shortest and the second the longest, 

 though not equal to the longest soft rays. The caudal is small and 

 rounded, and the median rays somewhat the longest. Color in 

 alcohol mostly of a rich brown, beautifully variegated with daiker 

 marblings and spots. A broad light band across the soft D., caudal 

 peduncle and soft A. All the fins irregularly and somewhat 

 narrowly barred with darker broAvnish. A large blackish spot 

 about the size of the eye upon the upper part of the operculum. 

 Scales mostly ctenoid, except those of the thoracic region, which 

 are cycloid, and together with the ctenoid scales of the head, those 

 along the bases of the D., A. and P. much smaller than those on 

 the rest of the body. The lateral line descends from above the 

 gill-opening to the centre of the base of the caudal in nearly a 

 straight line, not traversing the caudal peduncle medio-laterally. 

 There are about 38 to 42 scales in the lateral line. Radii of the 

 D. mostly XIII, 9, only seldom XIV, 9 or XIII, 10. Radii of 

 P. mostly 19, occasionally 18. Raddii of V. I, 5. Radii of A. 

 Ill, 5. The entire length of the specimens ranges from l|f to of 

 inches. 



13. Pterois radiata Cuvier and Valenciennes. 



Fterois radiata Cuvier and Valenciennes, Hist. 2sat. Poiss., lY, 1829, 

 p. 271. 



No. 11,807. Andrew Garrett. 



OARAOANTHID^. 



14. Caraoautlius maoulatus (Oray). 



Micropus maculatits Gray, Zoological Miscellany, 1831-42, p. 20. 



No. 12,199. Andrew Garrett. 



This specimen is very much like the one obtained by Dr. Sharp at 

 Honolulu, but differs a little in the larger eye, and the coloration is 

 also difierent, but this is due, I think, to the method of preservation 

 as Dr. Sharp's specimen was discolored by being placed in a cop- 

 per can. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 523 



GOBIID^. 



15. Eleotris fuscus (Bloch and Schneider). 



Pcecilia Fusca, Bloch and Schneider, Syst. Ichth., 1801, p. 453. 

 Nos. 11,006 to 11,025. Aadrew Garrett. 



16. Gobias ornatus Riippell. 



Oobius ornatus Riippell, Atlas zu der Reise Im Nordl. Afrika, 1828, 

 p. 135. 



No. 10,668. Andrew Garrett. 



PSEUDOOHROMID^. 



17. Pseudochromis polyacanthus Bleeker. 



Pseudocliromis polyacantlius Bleeker, Natuurk. Tijdsch. voor Nederl. 

 Indie, Deel X (New Series) 1856, p. 375. 



No. 14,647. Andrew Garrett. 



FIERASFERID^. 



18. Fierasfer homei (Richardson). 



Oxi/beles homei Eichardson, Voyage of the Erebus and Terror, Ichth., 

 184-1-48, p. 74, PI. 44rfigs. 7 to 18. 



" Xos. 8,933 to 8,937. Andrew Garrett. 



19. Fierasfer parvipinnis Kaup. Plate XIX, fig. 5. 



Fierasfer parvipinnis Kanp, Cat. of Apod. Fish., 1856, p. 160, PL 16, 

 fig. 2. 



No. 8,938. Andrew Garrett. 



A fine specimen with the veiy elongate tapering body peculiar 

 to the genus, in which the greatest depth, which is a little posterior 

 to the P., is contained 11^ times. The head is contained in the 

 body 9 times, its greatest depth contained in its own length 1|- 

 times, though its breadth is a trifle greater than its greatest depth. 

 The eyes are circular, anterior and superior, greater than the snout 

 and contained in the length of the head about 6 times. Top of 

 the head broad, nearly flat, or only very slightly convex, the cheeks 

 swollen, and the interorbital space equal to 1|- eye diameters. The 

 snout is obtuse, blunt and with the jaws equal when closed. Teeth 

 in the jaws pluriserial, well developed. Vomerine and palatine 

 teeth larger and more conical than those of the jaws, especially the 

 former. Maxillaries oblique, the distal extremity expanded and 

 posterior to the posterior margin of the eye. Branchial aperture 

 large, the gill-membranes free from the isthmus, but forming a 

 fold which passes over it. Brauchiostegals robust. Pseudo- 

 branchiee absent. Gill-rakers in moderate number and nearly as 




524 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



long as the eye. Nares small. The operculum is prolonged posteri- 

 orly into a little flap. Genito-anal apertures anterior to the origin 

 of the very short P., "which is contained in the length of the 

 head 4 times. Both the D. and A. are very little developed, so 

 that I am unable to locate the origin of the former, but that of 

 the latter falls a short distance behind the base of the P. The 

 body is completely naked and the lateral line is distinct and 

 straight from above the branchial aperture to the tip of the caudal. 

 The color in alcohol is at present a rich light Ijrown with very 

 minute dark spots or dots, and there also appears to have been 

 marblings of another darker color than the ground color, but not 

 so dark as the dots. The cheeks are also somewhat darker than 

 the ground color. Total length 7 inches. 



III. Sa-moa. 



The following specimens were collected many years ago by Dr. 

 H. C. Caldwell, by Avliom they were presented to the Academy. 



ANGUlIiLID^. 



1. Anguilla bengalensis (Gray). 



Murana Bengalensis Gray, Illuatrations of Indian Zoology, I, 1332, PI. 

 95, fig. 5 (after Ham. Buch. MS.). 



No. 1.087. 



This specimen is labeled as the type of Anguilla jyfdnirostris 

 Abbott MS. 



MUR^NID^. 



2. Echidna nebulosa (Ahli. 



Murcena nebulosa Alil, De Mursena et Opliichtho, 17S9, p. 5, PL 1, fig. 2. 

 No. 966. 



MUGILID^. 



3. Mugil caldwelli sp. nov. Plate XIX, fig. i. 



No. 9,841. Type. 



Form of the body oblong, the greatest depth 4* in the total 

 length, head about the same, but much longer than deep. The 

 eye is situated in the anterior part of the head and above the 

 centre of its dei^th, contained once in the snout, of in the head, 

 and If times in th«( iuterorbital space which is evenly though 

 shallowly convex and also contained in the head 2^ times. The 




1900.] XATUEAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 525 



eye is furnished ^Yith an adipose eyelid the posterior portion of 

 which is broader than the anterior portion and also covers the greater 

 part of the iris. The nostrils are placed superiorly, both pairs 

 closer together than the viidih of the interorbital space, and when 

 viewed laterally the anterior is half an eye diameter anterior and 

 superior to the centre of the eye and is rounded. The posterior 

 nostrils are slit-like, superior to the anterior and nearer the front 

 margin of the eye than the centre of the space between the ante- 

 rior pair and the anterior margin of the eye. Mouth very pro- 

 tractile, lips moderately thin and the symphysis of the mandible 

 is elevated and fits into a depression in the centre of the roof of 

 the upper jaw when the mouth is closed. The depth of the mouth, 

 that is the space between the symphysis of the mandible and the 

 corner of the mouth, is more than -i- the width of the breadth 

 between both corners of the same. The angle made by the man- 

 dibulary bones would be an obtuse one. The maxillaries are com- 

 pletely hidden when the mouth is closed. The corners of the 

 mouth are a trifle posterior to the posterior nostrils. The pra?or- 

 bital is small, scaleless and with the lower margin denticulate. 

 Head covered with scales, except the jaws, and the opercles at 

 present are also nude, but they were most likely scaled during life. 

 Gill-rakers long and well developed. Pseudobranchise well devel- 

 oped. Origin of the P. above the centre of the body, though the 

 base of the fin is not as high as the upper margin of the eye, 

 directly behind the branchial aperture, shorter than the head and 

 extending posteriorly a trifle beyond the origin of the spinous D. 

 Eadii of P. I, 15. The origin of the V. is about half-way 

 between the origin of the P. and its tip, and it reaches posteriorly 

 beyond the centre of the space between their bases and the anus. 

 The anus is directly below the tip of the second D. spine, when the 

 fin is depressed. Radii of V. I, 5, the innermost rays joined to 

 each other and to the body by a membrane at their bases and there 

 is also a large arrow-shaped scale between their bases. The P. 

 are also furnished with a scale at their bases. The soft D. differs 

 from that of any other species of Mugil known to me by having 

 5 rays, and they all appear to be branched rays, as there is no 

 anterior spine present in this fin. The origin of the soft D. is 

 over the fourth or fifth soft A. ray. The spinous D with IV 

 spines, the first 3 large and well developed, the third thin and 




526 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [190(>. 



shorter than the second and fourth is about f the length of the 

 second, which is the longest. There are 2 elongated scales at the 

 base of the spinous D, , which lie on the back. Origin of the A. 

 posterior to the anus, radii III, 9, the anterior rays the longest 

 and the terminal longer than the median. The A. is covered with 

 small scales, especially anteriorly, the scales extending on the fins 

 as far as the tip of the third spine, which is the longest, the first 

 being the shortest. The soft D. appears to have had the basal 

 portion covered with scales. Caudal very deeply emarginate, the 

 lobes pointed and the basal portion scaled. Caudal peduncle com- 

 pressed and equal to the interorbital space. As the scales on the 

 anterior part of the body have been removed, I shall count the 

 scales from the upper posterior margin of the operculum to the 

 base of the caudal, yet they are in places removed so that the 

 count is approximate — 34. The color is a dull silvery, without 

 any conspicuous markings. Total length d^ inches. 



I have named this species for Dr. Caldwell, who collected the 

 type. 



HOLOCENTRID^. 



4. Holocentrus diadema Laceijede. 



Uolocentrus diadema Lacepede, Hist. Nat. Poiss., Ill, 1801, PI. 32, fig. 

 4, IV, 1801, pp. 372 aud 374. 



Xos. 14,139 and 14,140. 



5. Holocentrus spinifer (Forskal). 



Scimna spinifera Forskal, Descript. Animal., 1775, p. 49. 

 No. 14,142. 



6. Holocentrus sammara (ForskU). 



Scuena sammara Forskal, Descript. Animal., 1775, p. 43. 

 Xo. 14,141. 



MULLID^. 



7. TJpeneus indicus (Shaw). 



Mullus Indicus Shaw, General Zoology, IV, 1S03, p. 614. 

 Nos. 12,471 and 12,472. 



EQUULID^. 



8. Equula fasciata (Laci'pMo). 



Ciiipea fasciata Lacepede, Hist. Nat. Poiss.. V, 1802, pp. 425, 460 

 and 463. 



No. 11,064. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 527 



KUHLID^. 



9. Eahlia rupestris (Lac6pede). 



Centropomus rupestris Lacepede, Hist. Nat. Poiss., FV, 1801, pp. 252 

 and 273. 



No. 12,648. 



SERRANID^. 



10. Epinephelus merra Bloch. 



EpinepJielus merra Bloch, Ausl. Fische, VII, 1793, p. 17, fig. 329. 

 No. 13,456. 



LUTIANID^. 



11. Genyoroge marginata (Cuvier and Valenciennes). 



Diacope raarginata Cuvier and Valenciennes, Hist. Xat. Poiss., II, 

 1828, p. 320. 



No. 13,288. 



POMAOENTRID^. 



12. Eupomacentrus lividus (Bloch and Schneider). 



CJtmtodon Lividus Bloch and Schneider, Syst. Ichth., 1801, p. 235. 

 No. 9,651 and (?) 9,652. 



Of the latter, 'whicli is iu bad preservatiou, I am not positive of 

 the identification. 



LABRIDJE. 



13. Hemigymnus melapterus (Bloch). 



Labrus raelapterus Bloch, Ichthyologie, Vol. 3, pt. 8, 1797, p. Ill, PL 

 285. 



Nos. 9,591 and 9,653. 



SOARID^. 



14. Scams viridus Bloch. 



Scarus viridus Bloch, Ichthyologie, Vol. 3, pt. 7, 1797, p. 20, PI. 222. 



No. 9,274. 



15. Scarus globiceps Cuvier and Valenciennes. 



Scarus globiceps Cuvier and Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., XIV, 1839, 

 p. 179. 



No3. 9,279 and 9,280. 



16. Scarus sp.? 

 No. 9,275. 




528 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



OH^TODONTID^. 



17. Chaetodon setifer Bloch. 



Olmtodon setifer Bloch, Ichthyologie, Vol. 4, pt. 12, 1797, p. 99, PI. 426, 

 fig. 1- 



No. 12,294. 



18. Chaetodon vagabundus Linnaeus. 



Ghwtodon vagabundus Linnsens, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, 1758, p. 276. 

 No. 12,293. 



BALISTID^. 



19. Balistapus aculeatus (Linnnjus). 



Balistes aculeatus Linnasus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, 1758, p. 328. 

 Nos. 801 and 23,349. 



These two specimens represent the Balistes diva Cope MS., but 

 are undoubtedly the young of the above. 



TETRAODONTIDJE. 



20. Ovoides immaculatus (Bloch and Schneider). 



Tetrodon Immacidatus Bloch and Schneider, Syst. Ichth., 1801, p 507 

 (after Lacepede). • 



No. 1,117. 



The writer would like to call attention to errors in the Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1899, p. 496, where Arothron is spelled 

 Arathron and Arothron reticularis (Bloch and Schneider) is 

 referred to as Arathron reticulatis (Giinther). The species should 

 all be referred to the present genus, Ovoides, then they would 

 stand: 



Ovoides nigropunctatus (Bloch and Schneider). 



Tetrodon Nigropunctatus Bloch and Schneid. Syst. Ichth., 1801, p. 507. 



Ovoides reticularis (Bloch and Schneider). 



Tetrodon Reticularis Bloch and Schneider, Syst. Ichth., ISOl, p. 506. 



21. Ovoides ophryas (Cope), ri. XX, fig. 2. 



Arothron ophryas Cope, Trans. Amei. Philos. Soc, (New Series) XFS'', 

 1871, p. 479. 



No. Qb^. Type of Arothron ophryas Qoi^e. 



ECHENEIDIDJE. 



22. Echeneis naucrates I.inna;us. 



Echcncis naucrates Liuuseus, Syst. Nat.. Ed. X, 1758, p- 261. 

 No. 11,423. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 529 



SOME ARACHNIDA FROM ALABAMA. 

 BY NATHAN BANKS. 



The following spiders and allied Arachnids were collected in 

 Alabama, for the most part, by Prof. Carl F. Baker and his 

 students. Some, however, were gathered by Prof. Baker's prede- 

 cessor. Dr. L. M. Underwood. A few very interesting ones were 

 taken by the late Mr. Hugo Soltau near Mobile. When no locality 

 is given the specimens come from the vicinity of Auburn. The 

 following students assisted in making the collections : Messrs. 

 Allen, Dixon, Dobbin, Eppes, Farley, Houghton, McCalla, 

 Minge, Ransom, Shevers, Stewart and Warwick from Auburn, 

 and Hudnion from Opelika. All the localities are in the souLhern 

 .portion of the State; collections in the hilly northern part 'would 

 doubtless add many forms to the list, while on the Gulf coast a 

 few semi-tropical forms would be found. 



The Arachnid fauna of Alabama is of much interest to the 

 modern student since this State was one of the collecting grounds 

 of Prof. Hentz, the father of American Arachnology. A number 

 of species described by Hentz have been unkuown to later natu- 

 ralists, and the systematic position of some of them in much doubt. 

 In this collection several of these forms appear which enables me to 

 place them in their proper position. 



Perhaps the most interesting of these species is the one described 

 by Hentz as Katadysas j^umilus. Hentz believed this spider to be 

 intermediate between the two great divisions of the Araneida — those 

 with four lung-slits and vertically moving fangs, and those with 

 two lung-slits and laterally moving fangs. Katadysas was reputed 

 to have but two lung-slits, yet with vertically moving fangs. The 

 general appearance of Hentz' figure led several writers to believe 

 that Katadysas was a Zora or near that genus. lu this collection 

 there is one specimen of Katadysas pumilas which proves to belong 

 to the genus Zora, a genus new to our country. 



Of scarcely less interest was the scorpion, of which Prof. Baker 

 sent me many specimens. This scorpion proves to be quite differ- 




530 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



ent from the ordinary scorpion of the Southern States, long known 

 as Centrurits carolinianus Beauv, This species is the form described 

 by C. L. Koch as Vejovis carolinus. I had no idea that there 

 were two scorpions common in the Southern States, and its dis- 

 covery was of much concern to me. In looking up the literature 

 on the subject, however, I found that what was evidently the same 

 species had been recorded by Mr. J. P. Stelle in 1870, in the 

 American Entomologist, as occurring in Tennessee. This species is 

 abundantly different from our common Centrums, belonging to 

 another family and exhibiting many minor points of difference. 



A few other interesting species may be mentioned: Alyrmecojyhila 

 foliata Atk., which proves to be the same as Mygale fluviatilis 

 Hentz; Any2:)hcena piseatoria Heniz, one of the lost species, easily 

 recognized by the peculiar shape of the male palpus ; Dolomedes 

 albi7ieus Hentz, a pale species of the genus, and Lycosa missou- 

 riensis, a curious species which I described several years ago from 

 one Missouri specimen, is represented by many examples. 



Mr. Soltau sent several small forms that add interest to the hst; 

 one, a new genus of Dldynidie, is remarkable on account of its 

 near approach to certain six-eyed forms. 



Except in the small Theridiidce, where the woodland species have 

 not been well collected, this collection gives one a fair idea of the 

 spider fauna of the region. ]Most of the species are widely 

 distributed in the Atlantic States, very few but are found in more 

 northern regions. A few forms are more common in regions to the 

 south; such are Amjphmia striata, Gaucelmiis angii^tinus, Argy- 

 rodes nej>hikc, Prostheclina aurat-a and Lyssomanes viridis. Alto- 

 gether one hundred and thirty-three spiders are recorded and twelve 

 other Arachnids — a total of one hundred and forty-five species. 

 The Ejyeirida: leads with twenty -four species; then follow the Ly- 

 cosidoi and the Attidiv. Twenty families are represented, seven 

 by but one species. One hundred of the spiders were described 

 by Hentz; three are described as new. 



THERAPHOSID^. 

 Pachylomerus oarolinensis licmz. 



One female. 



Myrmeoiophila fluviatilis Lloutz. 

 M. foliata Atkinsou. 



Several specimens. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 531 



FILISTATID^. 

 Tilistata capitata Hentz. 



Many specimens ; also Opelika. 



DYSDERID^. 

 Ariadne bicolor Hentz. 



One specimen. 



PHOLOID^. 

 Tholcus phalangioides Fuess. 



Several specimens. September. 

 Spermopliora meridionalis Hentz. 



A few specimens. 



DRASSID^. 

 Sergiolus variegatus Hentz. 



Several examples, one from Mobile. 

 Prosthesima atra Hentz. 



A few. October. 

 Prosthesima ecclesiastica Hentz. 



Several specimens. October. 

 Prosthesima decepta n. sp. 



Length ? 7.5 to 8 mm. ; tibia plus patella IV, 3 mm. Cepha- 

 lotliorax yellow-brown, rather darker on head, mandibles red- 

 brown, legs brownish yellow, sternum pale reddish brown, abdomen 

 above and below dark gray, spinnerets yellowish. Cephalotho- 

 rax as long as tibia plus patella IV, much narrowed in front; 

 posterior eye-row slightly procurved, P. M. E. largest, oval and 

 oblique, not half their diameter apart at their posterior ends, 

 much farther from the P. S. E., A. M. E. nearly their diameter 

 apart, closer to the equal A. S. E., S. E. quite widely separated; 

 mandibles stout, vertical; legs of usual length, no spines under 

 tibiae I and II, a pair under metatarsus II, none under metatarsus 

 I, posterior pairs with many spines, none above; sternum plainly 

 longer than broad, truncate at base, broadest in middle, pointed 

 at the tip; abdomen once and one-half as long as broad, truncate 

 at base, depressed; the epigynum shows a broad area, traversed 

 by a rather narrow pale septum, and a dark ridge on each side. 



Several specimens. Resembles P. insularis Banks, but the 

 epigynum is quite different and the P. M. E. are larger and closer 

 together. 




532 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Gnaphosa sericata Koch. 



Herpyllus hicolor Heotz, 

 Many specimens, some from Opelika. 



CLUBIONID^. 

 Clubiona abottii Koch. 



A few small specimens. 

 Chiracantliium inclusa Hentz. 



Many examples. October. 

 ChiracantMum albens Hentz. 



One young specimen. 

 Phrurolithus alarius Hentz. 



One from Mobile. 

 Thargalia bivittatus Keys. 



Young specimens from ^lobile. 

 Anypbsena striata Becker. 



One male of this rare species. Readily known by small size aud 

 dark color, as well as by structure of palpus. 

 Anyphaena piscatoria Hentz. 



Two males are evidently this species, which is easily recognized 

 in this sex by the very long process to the tarsus of the palpus. 

 One is from Opelika. 



Gayenna celer Hentz. 



Anyplmna incerta Keys. 

 One young specimen from Opelika. 



ZOROPSID^. 

 Zora pumilis Hentz. 



Kat(ulys((S pumilis Hentz. 

 One immature specimen. It has the characteristic appearance 

 of the other species of the genus. 



A.GALENID^. 

 Agalena naevia Hentz. 



Various specimens, some of the form described by Becker as A. 

 hentzi, which I do not think is specilicaDy different. September. 

 Tegenaria derhami Scop. 



Several examples. 

 Coelotes medicinalis Hentz. 



One specimen. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 533 



THERIDIID^. 

 Theridium tepidariorum Koch. 



Great numbers of specimens. There is considerable variation 

 in color and markings, and the males vary in size and length of 

 legs. 



Gaucelmus angustinus Keys. 



One female. 

 Theridula sphaerula Hentz. 



A few specimens. October. 

 Teutana triangnlosa Walck. 



Numerous examples, some from Opelika. September. 

 Lathrodeotes mactans Koch. 



Many specimens. September. 

 Lithyphantes fulvus Keys. 



One female. 

 Crustulina guttata Rossi. 



One from Mobile. 

 Mysmena bulbifera Banks. 



One specimen. March. . 

 Argyrodes trigonum Hentz. 



A few specimens. September. 

 Argyrodes nephilae Cambr. 



One specimen. October. 

 Argyrodes cancellata Hentz. 



Two from Mobile. 



Spiropalpus spiralis Emer. 



One example. 

 Linyphia communis Heutz. 



Several specimens. September. 



Bathyphantes maculata n. sp. 



Cephalothorax black on sides and above in the middle, 

 leaving an irregular pale yellowish area each side, eyes on black 

 spots, with a black line extending back from each P. S. E. ; man- 

 dibles dark on base, pale on apex; legs pale, a dark band on 

 middle of the tibite, and frequently a spot above on middle of 

 femora; sternum black, a narrow black band on apex of each 

 35 




534 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



coxa; abdomen black, a pale space at base and three chevrons 

 behind, four spots on each upper side, the posterior ones often con- 

 nected to the chevrons, toward the base on each side is a long pale 

 spot, and two smaller near the spinnerets; venter black. Head 

 rather high; the P. M. E. less than their diameter apart, scarcely 

 as far from the P. S. E. ; A. M. E. smaller, hardly their diame- 

 ter apart, farther from the larger A. S. E. ; legs long and slender ; 

 abdomen high and convex, rounded at the base, pointed behind; 

 epigynum shows a finger bent in, and holes each side much as in 

 B. zebra. Length ? 1.8 mm. 



Two specimens from Mobile. Differs from B. zebra in larger 

 size, markings, etc. 



DIOTYNIDiE. 

 Dictyna sublata Hentz. 



Many specimens. October. 

 Dictyna voluoripes Keys. 



A few examples. October. 



J)ictyna foliacea Hentz. 

 D. tolupis Keys. 

 Several specimens. 



DICTYOLATHYS n. gen. 



Much like Dictyna, but appai'ently six-eyed, three in a group 

 ■each side; but the A. M. E. are present, although very small, and 

 situate close to and a little higher than the A. S. E. Head not 

 much elevated ; legs of moderate length, not spined, but very 

 liairy ; accessory spinning organs like Dictyna. 

 Dictyolathys maculata n. sp. 



Cephalothorax, legs, mandibles and sternum pale, rather yellow- 

 ish, eyes on black spots; abdomen whitish, with a basal black 

 mark and four rows of transverse dark marks, the subraedian pairs 

 being more or less connected, the lateral rows extending obliquely 

 down on the sides, the hind ones converging to the spinnerets, 

 venter Avith a few median black dots, region of epigynum reddish. 

 P. M. E. are more than their diameter apart, close to the equal 

 P. S. E; A. S. E. of about equal size; A. M. E. very small and 

 close to and slightly higher than the A. S. E. ; sternum broad, 

 sides rounded; abdomen rather truncate at base, moderately 

 broad ; genital region semicircular, showing a dark mark on each 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 535 



•outer lower side, with a narrow median septum, and each side at 

 base an oval opening. Length 1.4 mm. 



Several specimens from Mobile; also from Meridian, Miss. 



ULOBORID^. 



Uloborus plumipes Lucas. 



A few specimens. September. 



EPEIRID^. 

 Gasteraoantha cancer Hentz. 



Several specimens. 

 Acrosoma spinea Hentz, 



A few specimens. 

 Acrosoma rugosa Hentz. 



A few examples of several color varieties. 

 Mahadeva verrucosa Hentz. 



, One female. 

 Ordgarius oornigerris Hentz. 



One female from Mobile. 



Argiope aurantia Lucas. 

 Epeira riparia Hentz. 



Several specimens. 

 Argiope transversa Emer. 



Many examples. 

 Ipeira scutulata Hentz. 



A few, mostly young specimens. 

 Xpeira insularis Hentz. 



Many specimens. 

 Epeira trifolium Hentz. 



One specimen. 

 £peira domiciliorum Hentz. 



Several examples, some very dark. 



Epeira thaddeus Hentz. 

 A few examples. 



Epeira prompta Hentz. 

 E. parcula Keys. 



Many specimens, representing many color varieties. 




536 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Epeira globosa Keys. 



A few specimens. October. It is curious that Heutz did not 

 find this species, which he certainly would recognize as distinct. 

 Epeira displicata Hentz. 



Several specimens. 

 Epeira trivittata Keys. 



A few examples. 

 Epeira labyrinthea Hentz. 



A few specimens. 



Epeira vulgaris Hentz. 

 E. volucripes Keys. 

 A few young specimens. 

 Abottia gibberosa Hentz. 



Several examples. October. 



Abottia placida Uentz. 



A few specimens. 

 Argyroepeira hortorum Henta. 



Many specimens. 



Plectana stellata Hentz. 



A few, mostly young specimens. 

 Cyolosa oonioa Pallas. 



Many examples. September. 

 Larinia directa Uentz. 



A few specimens. October. 



TETRAGNATHID^. 

 Tetragnatha grallator Hentz. 



A few specimens. 

 Tetragnatha laboriosa Hentz. 



More common than the preceding species. October. Also 



Opelika. 



THOMISID^. 

 Xystious gulosus Keys. 

 A few specimens. 



Xystious quadrilineatus Keys. 



Several examples. October. 

 Xystious nervosus Banks. 



Several specimens. October. 




1900.] XATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 537 



"Xysticus maculatxis Keys. 



One specimen, probably this species. October. 

 Synema parvula Hentz. 



An immature specimen. 

 Oxyptila moaroensis Keys. 



One female from Mobile. 

 Coriarachne versicolor Keys. " 



A few specimens. October. 



Euncinia aleatoria Hentz. 



Several specimens. 

 Misumena vatia Clerk. 



Two females. May. 

 Misumena rosea Keys. 



Many specimens. October. 

 Misumena georgiana Keys. 



A few examples. October. 

 Tmarsus caudatus Hentz. 



Several specimens. October. 

 Tibellus duttoni Hentz. 



A few specimens. October. 

 Thanatus rubicundus Keys. 



Several examples. October. 

 Philodromus rufus Walck. 



A number of young specimens. 

 Philodromus aureolus Walck. 



Three females. 

 Philodromus vulgaris Hentz. 



Many specimens. 



Philodromus latioeps Keys. 



One immature specimen; the species is quite rare, but very dis- 

 tinct. 



Philodromus infuscatus Keys. 

 One male. 



LYOOSID^. 

 Pisaurina undata Hentz. 



Several specimens; also from Opelika. 




538 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900, 



Dolomedes sexpunotatus Hentz. 



Many specimens, mostly young. 

 Dolomedes scriptus Hentz. 



Three specimens. 

 Dolomedes albineus Hentz. 



A few specimens of this rare species. 



Dolomedes urinator Hentz. 



Several examples. 

 Lycosa scutulata Hentz. 



Many specimens. October. 

 Lycosa punctulata Hentz. 



A few specimens. October. 

 Lycosa carolinensis Hentz. 



Several specimens. 

 Lycosa missouriensis Banks. 



Many specimens of this very distinct and pretty species. Sep- 

 tember. 



Lycosa fatifera Hentz. 



L. tigrina McCook. 

 L. vulpina Emer. 



A few specimens. 

 Lycosa erratica Hentz, 



Many specimens, most of them small and with the black venter 

 with a large median yellow area. Also from Opelika. March, 

 October. 



Lycosa ooreata Hentz. 

 L. rufa Keys. 

 Many specimens, both of pale and dark varieties. Also from 

 Opelika. 



Lycosa lenta Hentz. 



L. ruricola Hentz. 

 Many specimens. Quite readily known by the generally pale 

 color and black venter; there is much variation in size. 



Lycosa babingtoni Blackw. 

 L. nidicola Emer. 

 Smaller than L. leiita ; darker above, with three pale stripes on 

 cephalothorax, the median one extending between M. E. Several 

 specimens; also from Opelika. 




1900.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 539 



Lycosa riparia Hentz. 



One female. This has the pale median stripe like L. babingtoni, 

 but with banded legs. 

 Lycosa sp. 



One female; dark; legs dark; venter dark, but not black; 

 somewhat like L. floridana Banks. 

 Lycosa sp. 



One male; pale, resembles L. ocreata Hentz, but there are no 

 stiff hairs on the anterior tibise. 

 Trochosa cinerea Fabr. 



A few specimens. 

 Allocosa funerea Hent:. 



Several specimens. March, October. 

 Pardosa milvina Hentz. 



^lany specimens. 

 Pardosa minima Keys. 



Several examples. October. Also from Opelika. 



OXYOPIDuE. 



Oxyopes salticus Hentz. 



]Many specimens. October. 

 Oxyopes scalaris Hentz. 



A few specimens. October. 

 Peucetia viridans Hentz. 



^lany specimens. 



PODOPHTHALMID^. 

 Thanatidius dubius Hentz. 

 One specimen. 



CTENID^. 

 Ctenus punctulatxis Hentz. 



Several specimens ; also from Opelika. 



ATTID^. 

 Fhidippns mystaceus Hentz. 

 One example. 



Phidippus audax Hentz. 



Attus tripunctatus Hentz. 

 Many specimens. September, October. 




540 PB0CEEDING8 OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Phidippus rufus Hentz. 

 Several specimens, 



Phidippus insolens Hentz. 

 A few specimens. 



Phidippus cardinalis Hentz. 



Three specimens. October. 



Phidippus obscurus Peck. 



One female. 

 Dendryphantes octavns Hentz. 



Many specimens. October. 



Dendryphantes retarius Hentz. 

 A few examples. October. 



Icius palmarum Hentz. 



A few specimens. October. 



Icius mitratus Hentz. 



A few specimens. October. 



Icius elegans Hentz. 



One example. 

 Cyrba taeniola Hentz. 



Many specimens. February, October. 

 Marptusa familiarlB Hentz. 



]\Iany specimens. September, October. 

 . Habrocestum coecatum Hentz. 



Two specimens. 

 Habrocestum cristatum Hentz. 



A few examples; also from Opelika. 



Prostheclina aurata Hentz. 

 P. cambridgei Peck. 

 Several specimens. 



Saitis pulex Hentz. 



Many specimens, mostly young. 



Zygoballus parvus Hentz. 



A few examples. October. 

 Homalattus oyaneus Hentz. 



One female. October. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 541 



LYSSOMANID^. 

 Lyssomanes viridis Hentz. 

 Two specimens. October. 



PHALANGIDA. 

 Liobunum vittatum Say. 



Several specimens. 

 Liobunum politum Weed. 



One specimen. 

 Liobunum hyemale Weed. 



Two specimens, 

 Liobunum flavum Banks. 



One specimen, 

 Liobunum speciosum n. sp. 



The female shows two pale lines extending from the eye-tubercle 

 to the anterior margin; the male has black trochanters. 



Color of female broivn; a dark central mark on the cephalo- 

 thorax, with two pale lines extending from the eye-tubercle to the 

 front margin; eye-tubercle dark brown; palpi pale; legs pale, 

 patellae light brown, tips of tibiie brown; venter pale; dorsum of 

 abdomen with a vase-mark margined with clear pale yellow, the 

 mark extending to near tip of body ; sides of cephalothorax brown, 

 widest behind, and enclosing a yellow dot. Male nearly uniform 

 reddish yellow above, pale beneath; palpi paler; trochanters black 

 as well as the bases of the femora, rest of legs pale, except light 

 brown patellae and tips of the tibite; eye-tubercle black. 



Legs long and slender, eye-tubercle with a few spinules above. 

 Body of female not very slender, of male broad and short, finely 

 granulate, the skin rather hard. Femur I of female twice as long 

 as body ; of male two and one-half times as long as body. 



A few specimens, September. Separated from L. blcolor by 

 pale color, absence of the tubercles mentioned by Wood, markings 

 of the female, etc. 

 Cynorta sayi Simon. 



Several specimens, some in December. 



SCORPIONIDA. 

 Vejovis carolinus Koch. Die Arachnideii, vol. 10, p. 7. 



Body nearly uniform light reddish brown, palpi same color, legs 

 and venter paler, under side of tail dark like the upper side. 




542 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



cephalotliorax with pale spots. Cephalothorax longer than broad 

 behind, with a median sulcus throughout, anterior margin emar- 

 ginate, about one-half as long as posterior margin, surface with 

 groups and rows of granules, these are dark, elsewhere the surface 

 is pale. Median e^'^es at anterior third, three small side-eyes in a 

 curved row, the third smaller than the others; abdominal segments 

 with granules most numerous on the posterior portion, and a row of 

 larger ones along the hind margin, and a faint median ridge indi- 

 cated on the middle of the segments, last segment with four granu- 

 late ridges, the side pair not reaching the hind margin, the sub- 

 median pair outline a broad area, slightly wider in front than 

 behind; tail short, stout, the first four segments short, each a little 

 longer than the preceding one, the fifth nearly twice as long as 

 the fourth; the first segment has three granulate ridges on its 

 sides, the second and third segments have the intermediate ridge 

 arising from near the middle of the upper ridge, while on the 

 fourth segment the intermediate ridge is wanting; all have a ridge 

 each side above, in the fourth terminating much before the tip ; the 

 fifth has a ridge each side above, an upper lateral one on the 

 basal part and a lower lateral one for the whole length; on the 

 lower side the first four segments have a low submedian ridge each 

 side, and the fifth has a median ridge; the bulb is nearly smooth 

 above, granulate below, leaving a submedian smooth space each 

 side, the sting is black at lip, of moderate length and curved, no 

 spine below. The palpi are short, about the length of the cephalo- 

 thorax and abdomen; femur four-sided, broader than high, 

 scarcely broader in the middle than at either end, a granulate 

 ridge at each angle ; tibia about as long as femur, broader than 

 high, broader in the middle, being swollen on the inner side, four- 

 sided, with a granulate ridge on each angle and one on the middle 

 of the inner side; hand scarcely as long as tibia, swollen, with 

 seven faint ridges and granules near some of them; fingere rather 

 longer than hand, paler, gently curved, finely denticulate, and 

 with five pairs of larger teeth at about equal distances apart. 

 Sternum five-sided, broad in front; thirteen teeth in each comb: 

 each ventral segment paler on posterior part. Length, 36 mm. 



Many specimens. p]asily separated from Centrurm carolinianm 

 by darker nearly uniform color, by broader five-sided sternum, by 

 absence of spine under the sting, by broader central area of last 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 545 



abdominal segment, by stouter hands and shorter fingers, by 

 lateral eyes farther from anterior margin, by shorter second joint 

 of tail, and by fewer number of teeth in the comb. 



PSEUDOSCORPIONIDA. 



Chelifer cancroides Linn. 



Several specimens crawling over moss in February. 

 Chelifer muricatus Say. 



One specimen. 



AOARINA, 

 Bdella oblonga Say. 



One under stones, January ; another from Mobile. 

 Gamasus spinipes Say. 



Two specimens of this large and well-marked species. 

 Gamasus sp. 



Many specimens of a small pale species, probably new: abundant 

 in greenhouses in January. 




544 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



THE PINE BARRENS OF NEW JERSEY. 

 BY C. F. SAUNDERS. 



Lying between the New Jersey Southern Railroad and Barnegat 

 Bay and north of Mullica river there is an area of about four 

 hundred square miles of wilderness, traversed by no railroad and 

 practically uninhabited. This region, which is the very heart of 

 the Pine Barrens of southern New Jersey, is so inaccessible that, 

 so far as I can learn, it has been visited of late years by only an 

 occasional botanist, although its outer borders, at such places as 

 Atsion, Hammonton, Tuckerton, Whitings, AVoodmansie, and 

 the Upper or West Plains, have been visited more frequently. 



A forty-mile trip iu midsummer across the Pine Barrens has 

 drawbacks enough to make even the most enthusiastic flower-lover 

 think twice before entering upon it. The sands are heavy, the flies 

 and ticks and mosquitoes are numerous, the heat is excessive, 

 springs are few and far between, and forest fires are apt to be at 

 their devastating work in the very place to be visited. However, 

 we decided to chance these things, and on the evening of July 3, 

 1899, found ourselves landed at an old-fashioned hotel at Tucker- 

 ton, and bargaining with a resident South Jerseyman — half 

 farmer, half sportsman, and altogether a pioneersman, to use his 

 own expression — for a team to take us across to Atsion with board 

 and lodging en route, and the next morning bright and early we 

 were jogging along the road that leads from Tuckerton northwest 

 toward the Lower Plains. 



Mile after mile of oak and pine barrens were passed without sign 

 of human habitation, and when five miles were registered we 

 came to the spot which is marked upon the maps as Munyon Field. 

 Here, iu old times, had been a house, and a family had lived here, 

 scratching some sort of a living from the sand and fattening hogs 

 on the abundant mast which strewed the ground under the little 

 chinquapin oaks. Now no vestige of human occupation remains 

 save a little clearing which is rapidly filling up with wildings 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 545 



from the surrounding forest, prominent among them that charac- 

 teristic primrose of the Pine Barrens, Oenothera sinuata L. Two 

 or three miles more of simihar wilderness and the forest growth 

 thinned out and dwindled down to dwarf proportions as we 

 emerged upon the rolling heathlike expanse of the East or Lower 

 Plains. These plains are about nine miles northsvest of Tuckerton 

 and lie south of the East Branch of the Wading river. The West 

 or Upper Plains, which are reached most easily from Woodmansie, 

 lie north of the said branch of the Wading river, and are of less 

 extent than the Lower Plains. The latter possess an area (accord- 

 ing to Pinchot's report) of about 7,700 acres, or, roughly, five 

 miles long by two and one-half miles across. Xothing could be 

 more restful to the eye than this rolling expanse of green plain 

 melting away in every direction into the misty distance, the white 

 sand gleaming out here and there like white caps on an emerald 

 sea. The flora appears to be identical with that of the Upper 

 Plains, which have more than once been the objective point of 

 visits by members of the Academy. The luxuriant vines of the 

 bearberry {Arctostaphylos uva-ursi) lay sprawling everywhere in 

 the sun, their dry, astringent berries not yet tinged with the crim- 

 son that makes them so conspicuous in winter; the pyxie, trailing 

 arbutus, hudsonia, laurel, tephrosia and leiophyllum were so 

 abundant that the whole place must have been like a garden in 

 the spring. Corema Conradii is on the Lower Plains as well as on 

 the Upper, a characteristic plant, growing in masses of sallow 

 green. On July 3 we found it in mature fruit — in fact, past its 

 prime, so that the dry little drupes easily shattered otf after 

 being transferred to the press. 



The same growth of stunted scrub and blackjack oaks and 

 pitch pine covers these Lower Plains as covers the Upper. The 

 average height of these curious little trees, which are abundantly 

 fruited with acorns and cones, is hardly over three feet. Occa- 

 sionally a clump six feet high or so occurs, and we noted a sassafras 

 or two about six feet high, but for considerable stretches one may 

 walk with his knees in the tree tops. Gifford Pinchot, in his 

 account of the Plains, appended to the last annual report of the 

 New Jersey State Geologist, calls attention to the fact that while 

 the pine is chiefly of coppice growth — that is consisting of sprouts 

 from stumps or from creeping branches of trees which have been 

 killed back by tire — many of the small specimens which appear like 




546 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMT OF [1900. 



sprouts will, if examined, be fouud to be in reality seedlings 'W'ith 

 stems and branches creeping on the ground. The prostrate seed- 

 lings, he states, exhibit a remarkable similarity to the forms assumed 

 by trees near the timber line on high mountains, and it is a fair 

 inference that the very harsh and exposed situations in which they 

 grow on these South Jersey plains has had an effect analogous to 

 that of great elevation. 



About half-way across the Lower Plains, where the road dips 

 down into a little hollow in the bosom of the hills, we found a 

 good-sized pond with sphagnum border, and bearing on its waters 

 several floating islands of sphagnum supporting luxuriant growths 

 of Cassandra calyculata, Eriocaulon, sedges, sundews, etc. This, 

 our driver told us, was called Watering Place Pond, and was well 

 known to old hunters, who in former days had killed many a 

 deer on its margin. Castalia odorata, Pogonia ophioglossoides, 

 Limodonim tuberosum, Azalea viscofa, Drosera filifonnis and 

 intermedia, Pohjgala NuttalUi and lutea, Proserpinaca pectinacea, 

 Hypoxia erecta, Lysimachia strida were in bloom. Carex Walter- 

 iana — a graceful southern sedge, which finds its northern limit in 

 Ihe southern New Jersey Pine Barren swamps, luxuriated along with 

 Woodwardia Virginica, in the shallow water of the pond's margin, 

 and on the dryer banks the dwarf huckleberry, Gayhissacia 

 dximosa — called by our driver, grouseberry — was abundant. The 

 fruit of the other Gaylussada common throughout this region — G. 

 resinosa— the same authority invariably spoke of as hog huckle- 

 berries, or more familiarly " hoggies." The swamp blueberry 

 ( Vaccinium corymbosiua) also grew by this pond, its luscious fruit 

 just maturing and tempting one to forget home and linger forever 

 by the loaded bushes, as the lotos tempted the companions of old 

 Ulysses. 



After leaving the Plains, the old road wound now through dry 

 sandy pine woods, bare of conspicuous flowers, save, j^erhaps, for 

 the ever-present Melampyrum lincare and the yellow banners of 

 Baptism tindoria — now through damp savanna lands, where we 

 had as roadside companions the thread-leaved sundew's purple 

 flowers, the orange heads of Pohjgala lutea, the magenta blos- 

 soms of the grass pink and the snake-mouth Pogonia. Jjophiola 

 Americana was just coming into blossom, and nothing could be 

 more exquisite than the beauty of its white flannelly corymbs 

 in a condition of half bud, half bloom. The expanded blossoms 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 547 



of this characteristic plant of the damp barrens, though individu- 

 ally small, are wonderfully rich in color, with orange anthers and 

 rich reddish-brown sepals crested with lines of golden wool. In 

 some places the bearberry formed a veritable carpet. The gather- 

 ing of this plant for shipment to the cities, where it has been more 

 or less extensively employed in medicine, used to be a considerable 

 industry in southern New Jersey. A reminiscence of this oldtime 

 trade still lingers in one of the common names of the plant down 

 there, viz. , uvursy — the shop name of the bearberry being uva-ursi. 

 In a savanna through which we passed just before reaching the east 

 branch of the Wading river we were greeted with the sight of 

 Abama Americana in the height of bloom, studding the grass as 

 thick as buttercups. This beautiful little plant, which bears a 

 spike of fragrant yellow blossoms, and is no less beautiful in fruit, 

 when the whole plant, stem and capsules, is suffused with a ver- 

 milion glow, is interesting as being found nowhere else in the world 

 except in the wet pine barrens of southern New Jersey. In this 

 same savanna we were delighted to find another most interesting 

 plant, Tofieldia racemosa, a liliaceous herb covered with a 

 rough, glutinous pubescence, that makes it anything but pleasant to 

 handle. This species is truly a southerner, and, though the 

 books give its northern limit as southern New Jersey, is credited 

 in Britten's Catalogue to only one locality in that State — namely, 

 near Manchester. There it is very scarce and not recently reported, 

 so that our discovery of it would seem to be worthy of note. 



Crossing the east branch of the Wading river, and passing 

 through a cedar swamp which was still fragrant (July 4) with the 

 perfume of the blossoms of Magnolia Virginiana, we came out 

 upon some cultivated fields and a farmhouse — the first sign of 

 human life that Ave had met with since leaving Tuckerton eight or 

 nine hours before. It was interesting to note the establishment 

 here in this little cultivated spot in the wilderness, of such familiar 

 weeds as the ox-eyed daisy, English plantain, sheep sorrel, rabbit's- 

 foot clover and Plantago aristata, as well as the white hoarhound, 

 Marruhium vulgare. A mile or so west of this place and at least 

 four miles from the Plains, we came again upon Corema Conradii, 

 this time growing in pine woods, though by no means so abundant 

 as on the Plains. 



That evening we pitched our camp on the banks of the Wading 

 river, at a crossing called Allen's Bridge, and while our di-iver was 




548 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



engaged in preparing supper, we made a sortie across the river and, 

 where the sphagnum was sprinkled with plants of Drosera filifonnis, 

 with Lycopodium Caroliidanum growing hard by, we discovered 

 Schizaea pusilla in fair abundance. The plants were scarcely fully 

 developed yet, many of them indeed just uncoiling. A number of 

 fertile fronds of the previous year still persisted, but brown and 

 dead and with spore cases empty. It may not be generally known 

 that this little fern, as well as its relative, Lygodium pabnatum, is 

 evergreen, at least so far as the sterile fronds are concerned, and 

 a very good time to search for it is in mild midwinter, when, the 

 snow being off the ground and the earth rather bare of green 

 vegetation, the tiny corkscrev/ fronds are comparatively con- 

 spicuous. Growing in the water along the shore of the river at 

 Allen's Bridge, Juncus mUltaris was abundant — a stately rush, 

 which is of especial interest as possessmg two sorts of leaves, one 

 of the usual rushlike kind, and the other submerged, borne in 

 dense fascicles, and developing threadlike, knotted blades a foot 

 or more in length — in fact, one would l)e inclined to regard them 

 as roots, instead of leaves. Near here, also, Rhyncospora Torrey- 

 ana was collected — a beak rush peculiar to the pine barren swamps 

 of the coast between New Jersey and South Carolina, and one of 

 rare beauty. 



On the edge of a cedar swamp near Calico — a half-day's travel 

 further west — we again found Schizaea pusilla at home, but spar- 

 ingly, and growing in the same locality, like so many little black- 

 headed pins stuck in the sand, were plants of the tiny Utricularia 

 cleistogama. Not far from here we came upon the rarity of an 

 inhabited house. There was an old stone-lined well in the shady 

 yard, and as we leaned on the curbing while the bucket was bringing 

 us up a drink, we were greeted with a beautiful sight of scores of 

 fern plants clinging in the cool damp crevices of the stones far 

 down in the well. Phegopteris Dryopteris, Asplenium filixfoemitia, 

 Asplenium platyneuron, and one of the varieties of Dryopteris spi- 

 nulosa were collected. These are not at all Pine Barren species ; 

 iud<!ed, Phegopteris Dryopteris is a typical mountain form, and as 

 far as New Jersey is concerned, Brittou's Catalogue gives for it but 

 two stations, both of which are in northern counties of the State ^ 

 more than a hundred miles away. How it and its companions hap- 

 pened to get in that old well in the heart of the Pine Barrens is an 

 interesting mystery. 




1900.] JTATUKAL SCIE>XES OF PHILADELPHIA. 549 



From Calico to Batsto, where y^e had planned to pass the night, 

 our road (which, by the way, was no easy one to follow) led 

 through " Old ^lartha." This forlorn and desolate spot, a sort of 

 Tadraor in the Avilderness, marks the scene of a former hive of 

 industry — for here, in old times, stood and flourished an iron fur- 

 nace, drawing its supplies of ore from the bogs close by, while the 

 abundant pine forests on every side furnished a wealth of charcoal 

 for fuel. Now nothing remains but a heap o^ ruins where the 

 furnace stood, and an occasional chimney stack where the houses of 

 the operators had been. A grove of catalpa trees and a wilderness 

 of white poplar suckers helped to give an uncanny look to the 

 place, and we were glad to be off^ again under the familiar shadows 

 of the pitch pines and scrub oaks. 



The road to Batsto is through a very barren stretch, and we 

 found the botanizing poor. From Batsto, where we passed the 

 night, we took a northerly route through sandy pine barrens be- 

 tween the Atsion and Batsto rivers to Quaker Bridge, a spot 

 classic in botanical annals as the fii'sjt-discovered station of Schizaea 

 pimlla. Here we built our last cahip-fire,^ and made a farewell 

 tea of Solidago odora leaves, which turned out to be a rather palat- 

 able brew — if taken hot. The beautiful greenbrier, Smilax lauri- 

 folia, another southerner which attains its Ultima Thule in the New 

 Jersey pines, was noted here, while deep in the cedar swamp we 

 found Abama Americana in bloom, though not nearly so abundant 

 as we had seen it in the savanna near the Plains. The stream 

 at Quaker Bridge was quite a wild water -garden, with the white 

 water lilies, the blue spires of Pontederia, the yellow helmets of 

 the flowers of the bladderwort ( Utricularia fibrosa), and the 

 showy red blossoms of Rhexia Virghiica, while here and there in 

 the midst of the green grasses along the river, Sabbatia lanceolata 

 would display its ample cymes of white bloom, like showers of stars 

 half fallen. From here to Atsion is four miles, and there Ave ar- 

 rived in time for the evening train citywards. 



Among the grasses gathered on this trip, and which were sub- 

 mitted to a close examination later on, were found specimens of 

 Panicum which Mr. Nash describes as Panicum Glutei,^ in honor 

 of W. N. Clute, my companion on this excursion. 



^Bul. Torrey Bot. Club, Xov., 1899. 

 36 « 




550 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



LOWER CALIFORNIAN SPECIES OF U(ELOCENTKUM AND BERENDTIA. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



The Lower Californiau species now known of these genera are 

 conlined to the plateaux of the middle portion of the peninsula. ^ 

 Thus far none have been found in the mountainous region ex- 

 tending from La Paz southward. 



Ccelocentrunv is rather widely distributed in Mexico, though none 

 are known in the States immediately bordering upon the Gulf of 

 California. 



W. M. Gabb described Coeloeentrum irregular e^ from the high 

 table-land? cf the interior, especially about " Moleje " (Muleje), 

 where it lives hidden under loose volcanic rocks. This is on the 

 east coast of the peninsula, a little below the twenty-seventh 

 parallel. 



Mons. J. Mabille has more recently described two species belong- 

 ing to this group, under the generic name Berendtia. His i>. 

 Digueti* is costulate with sculptured interstices, or, in his words, 

 " costellis lamellosls, obtusis, jndeherrime ornata ; interstitiis costella- 

 rum striis minidmimus, costellisqite arcuatis, sat regulariler di^- 

 positis, solum oculo armato perspicuis, viunita." For the rest, it 

 has 19-20 convex whorls, the embryonal 4 or 5 cancellated and 

 beautifully granulose; the last whorl is solute, keeled at the 

 insertion, and with an obtuse, short keel about the umbilical tract; 

 aperture oval, angulate above; the columella is " contorto-arcuata, 



^ J. G. Cooper, in the American Journal of Conchology, lY, 1868, p. 212, 

 footnote, states that "Mr R. H. Stretch has recently brought from near 

 Carson Valley, Nevada, hxt. 39°, fossils, or rather casts, closely resembling 

 the Ilolospira J^ewcombiana and II. irregularis Gabb, of Lo-ner California. 

 They occur, he says, in the same formation that contains Carinifcx," etc. 

 Nothing further is known on this topic. 



* There is a genus Ca'locentrus in },lo\lusc& {Eno7np7ialid(e), ha&edn^n 

 the Devonian Enomphalus Goldfussi d'Arch. and the Tria^ic Cirrus Poli/- 

 phernus Lanbe Its date is unknown to me, but 1 have not seen it men- 

 tioned earlier than about 1882. 



'^ Cylindrclla {Urocoptia) irregularis Gabb, American Journal of Con- 

 cJiolo'gy, III, p. 238, pi. 16, f. 4, 1867. 



* Bulletin de la Societe Philomathique de Paris (8), VII, 1S95. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 551 



nd basin obscure denticulata " from the slight basal channel. 

 Ltsngth 30^-33, breadth 5 mm. It is from the " Plateau de San 

 Zavier, N. lat. 25°." Probably this should be lat. 26°, as a 

 Mission similarly named lies near this parallel. 



B. minorina Mabille is presumably smaller, though no dimen- 

 sions are given. It is also costellate, with 4 embryonal whorls 

 minutely sculptured with spirally descending lines, handsomely 

 granulose. The intercostal spaces of the rest of the shell ai'e 

 smooth. Whorls 17, with deep sutures. The last whorl is angu- 

 late toward the suture, very obtusely keeled on the back, solute 

 and a little descending. The aperture is angulate above, ovate. 

 Other features are alluded to under the description of C. Gabbi, 

 below. It is from " Plateaux above the AiToya de la Purissima." 

 This is doubtless the Mission de la Purissima, 

 above the twenty-sixth parallel of latitude, in •■■'*^ 



W. longitude 112°. 



Upon examining Gabb's type lot of C. irregu- 

 iare it became obvious at once that two species ) 



were included therein: one (irregulare) with^ the ) 



general features of the mainland Coelocentrums, ) 



the other, represented by three specimens, with ) 



the last whorl free anteriorly and the aperture j 



shaped like that of Berendtia. The latter may 

 be described as follows : 



Coelocentrum minorinum var. Gabbi n. v. Fig. l. 



Shell very slender and lengthened, cylindrical 

 below, tapering and attenuated above, retaining 

 the apex perfect; thin, rather fragile, covered 

 with a light brown cuticle; composed of 16|^-18|- , . .,,- 

 whorls, of which the initial one is globose, the ear- ■': 

 lier 4^ form a cylindric or apically swollen por- ', 

 tion ; increase in the diameter of the shell begiu- 

 ninof with the fifth whorl and continuiuo: for about 

 6 whorls, the remaining whorls of about equal 

 diameter; all whorls decidedly convex, separated 

 by well-impressed sutures, the last somewhat more ^ 



lengthened, a little flattened peripherally, its 

 latter portion becoming free (^Cylindrella-YikQ) , '^ 



the solute portion variable in length, somewhat descending, de- 




552 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



cidedly carinatecl above, obtusely angular at base, with a slight 

 spiral groove withiu the margin of the iimbilical tract, the umbili- 

 cus pervious but small. Sculpture : earliest 2^ whorls with close, 

 fine, straight vertical riblets only, the next 2 whorls wiih the rib- 

 lets cut into beads by spiral stride; following whorls with strong 

 arcuate riblets separated by intervals of their own width, and 

 about 62 in number on the next-to-the-last whorl. Aperture ir- 

 regularly ovate, decidedly oblique, its length contained about five 

 and one-half times in that of the shell; peristome thin, moderately 

 expanded throughout, the inner margin dilated and obtusely an- 

 gular iu the middle ; columella slightly concave, a little exca- 

 vated below. Internal column rather slender, smooth, oblique and 

 slightly gibbous below, less swollen within each Avhorl than in C. 

 irregi'Jare. 



Alt. 24.5, diam, of last whorl above aperture 4.5, longest axis 

 of aperture 4.5 mm.; diam. of second whorl 1.7 mm. 



Compared with C. irregulare Gabb, this form is somewhat more 

 attenuated, with the latter part of the last whorl projecting- 

 free, the aperture more oblique and of a wholly difl^ereut form, 

 strongly resembling that of Berendtia Taylori. The riblets are 

 more slender and threadlike; finally the retention of the early 

 whorls may be another difference, but too few specimens of 

 either species are known to warrant insistence upon this chai-acter 

 at present. 



This form differs from C. Digiieii in being smaller, with fewer 

 whorls, without sculpture between the riblets, and with scarcely 

 any observable twist to the columella. It is evidently more nearly 

 allied to C minorlna; but the riblets are arcuate rather than 

 "fere rectilinels ;" only the third and fourth whorls have spiral 

 granulose striio; the last whorl can hardly be said to be " rersu-9 

 suturam. aiiguhto, dorso ohfnsissimc carinato ;" the aperture is not 

 " paululum obliqtia,^' but decidedly oblique ; and the columella i? 

 simply concave above, channeled at base, not " forta, leviter i))cras- 

 sata." Whether these differences indicate specific distinction can- 

 not well be decided in the absence of a figure or dimensions of 

 Mabille's species, or of specimens for comparison. 



In the figure the sculpture is omitted, except on the earlier and 

 later whorls. 




1900.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



553 



\ 



•Coelocentrum Eisenianum n. sp. Fig. 2. 



Shell excessively slender and lengthened, the upper half much 

 attenuated, retaining the apex in adult indi^^duals; thin, rather 

 fragile, light brown. Whorls 21-22, the first 

 glol)ose, the second slightly wider, then decreasing 

 slightly in calibre to the fifth ; the earlier 4^ whorls 

 thus forming a pupoid or slightly club-shaped nepi- 

 •onic portion, below which the diameter slowly 

 increases ; last 4 or 5 whorls of nearly equal diam- 

 eter. All whorls strongly convex ; the last whorl a 

 trifle flattened peripherally, its latter third becoming 

 free and deviating tangentially somewhat, the free 

 portion carinated above, having a cordlike keel 

 about the umbilical region below. Umbilicus small. 

 Sculpture : first 2^ whorls bearing very close, fine, 

 <ielicate vertical riblets ; next 2 whorls with these 

 riblets cut into granules by spiral decussating lines ; 

 following whorls with close, fine, slightly «.rcuate 

 riblets, about 47 in number on the next-to-last 

 whorl. Aperture decidedly obhque, rhombic, its 

 length contained nearly eight times in that of the 

 shell; peristome thin, continuous, slightly ex- 

 panded throughout. 



Alt. 23.5, diam. of last whorl above aperture 

 2. 7, length of aperture 3 mm. ; diam. of second 

 whorl 1.3 mm. 



Lower California (Fred L. Button). 



This species differs from C. minorlnum Gahhi in the following 

 respects: With the same length it has a much more slender form, 

 more numerous and narrower whorls, coarser costulation and a 

 smaller aperture. The apical whorls are, moreover, rather more 

 <3lub-shaped. It is not closely related to any other species known. 



Coelocentrum irregulare (Gabb). Figs. 3, 4. 



After eliminating the specimens of C minorinum Gahhi, there 

 remain four imperfect examples of this species in the collection 

 presented by Gabb to the Academy, Two of these are young or 

 broken sheila, showing only the tapering early growth, without the 

 embryonic whorls. They are about 11 mm. long. Another (fig. 



Fig. 2. 




554 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1900. 



\ 



Fi«. 4. 



3) is Gabb's figured type, which hkewise lacks the attenuated early 

 portion; and the fourth example is an adult shell 

 of which only the lower 3^ whorls remain (fig. 

 4). The apical characters are therefore still to 

 be ascertained, as well as the total number of 

 wdiorls, although the species will 

 probably prove to be constantly 

 truncated when adult. 



The type (fig. 3, sculpture 

 omitted) retains 12 whorls, 

 which are convex and sculp- 

 tured like those of B. minori- 

 num Gabbi, except that the rib- 

 lets are stronger. The whorls 

 are shorter, so that a greater 

 number is contained in the same 

 length of shell than in the other 

 species mentioned. There are 58 riblets on the 

 next-to-the-last whorl. TJie last lohorl does not 

 in the least become free but remains adnate, as in 

 the Mexican species. The aperture is rounded, 

 squarely truncate above, and but very slightly oblique, the peri- 

 stome is moderately expanded, the outer and basal margins arcuate, 

 columellar margin broadly dilated; parietal margin adnate to the 

 preceding whorl, nearly straight and nearly horizontal. The 

 figured type (fig. 3), which is decollate, measures: Alt. 19, diam. 

 above aperture 4.2 mm. ; alt. of aperture 3.5 mm. Another speci- 

 men (fig. 4), broken, but with the aperture perfectly adult, meas- 

 ures: Diam. above aperturt 4.8 mm.; aperture, alt. 4, diani. 4 mm. 

 C. irregulare is much like the species of the Mexican mainland 

 except in being smaller and especially more slender. All the speci- 

 mens known are bleached to a faint brown tint or white. 



BERENDTIA. 



Berendtia Avas based by Crosse and Fischer upon the single species 

 Taylori of Pfeiffer, with which Gabb's Ci/lindrella Xenrombiana i* 

 identical. The species is from the same region inhabited by 

 Ccelocenfram irregulare. The apex of Bcreiidtia is retained in the 

 adult state, as in Ccelocentrum minoriiium Gabbi and C. Ei^^eniauumy 



Fig. 3. 




1900.] >'ATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 555 



but unlike most other species of that genus. Beginning with a bul- 

 bous tip as in C. Eisenianum, there are two finely costulate whorls; 

 then spiral strife appear and continue for a half whorl, when the 

 termination of the nepionic stage is reached and the oblique 

 costulation of the adult stage begins. The apical characters are 

 therefore essentially as in Ccelocentrum. The aperture is ovate 

 with free and entire peristome, very similar to that of Ccelocentrum 

 minor inum Gabbi. 



The only feature remaining to differentiate Berendtia from 

 Cuilocentrum is the extremely slender axis, imperforate throughout. 



It is evident that Berendtia is a tangent from Ccelocentrum, and 

 distinguished from certain Lower Californian species of that genus 

 solely by the reduction of the columella from a tube to a solid 

 style, as in the genus Eucalodium. 




556 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



SONORELLA, A NEW GENUS OF HELICES. 

 BY HEXRY A. PILSBRY. 



In a former volume of these Proceed uifjs,^ the writer in collab- 

 oration with Prof. Cockerell established a new genus for certain 

 externally Polygyra-like Helices from Arizona and New Mexico, 

 under the name Ashmunella. It was there stated, with some 

 reserve (p. 191), that ^ ' Ashmunella is. 2i ixxevahQv oi the Belogotm 

 euadenia or Asiatic- American group of dart-bearers, which has lost 

 the dart apparatus and developed apertural characters of the shell 

 similar to those of Polygyra.'" So far as exterior and shell are 

 concerned, Ashmunella converges so completely to the Polygyra 

 type that the most experienced malacologists in America were 

 deceived, although, if my view be correct, their phylogeuetic his- 

 tory has been widely different. 



It was therefore with unusual interest that I found that alcoholic 

 specimens of " Epiphragmopliora^' hachitana Dall, recently for- 

 warded by the Rev. E. H. Ashmuu, confirm the position in classi- 

 fication proposed for Ashmunella, or at least they supply a new 

 genus allied to Ashmunella in the degeneration of the appendages 

 of the sexual organs, while some other viscera and the shell have 

 the characters of the Belogonous genus Epiphragmophora.* 



SONORELLA n. g. 



Gen. Char. — Shell umbilicate, depressed heliciform, similar to 

 Epiphragmophora, but neither malleate nor spirally striate; uni- 

 form or having a dark shoulder-band usually pale -bordered; the 

 lip more or less expanded. Genitalia without accessory organs on 

 the ? side, the spermatheca jjclobose on a very long duet ; vagina 

 long; penis small, continued in a much longer epiphallus, the 

 lower portion of which is embraced by the penis retractor; flagel- 



^Proc. A. N. 8. Phila. 1899, p. 188. See also 1900, p. 107. 

 ^ Coiif. note oil a young specimen of E. hachitana received from Prof. 

 0)ckerell, this volume, p. 100. last p:\ragraph. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 557 



lum extremely small. Jaw high, arcuate, with few (five or six) 

 strong ribs grouped in the median part. Teeth with side cusps 

 obsolete on centrals and laterals, otherwise as in Ashmunella and 

 many other ground Helices. Salivary glands connected merely by 

 some narrow bands above. Lung with simple pulmonary vein or 

 " rachis," the venation chiefly transverse and on the intestinal side; 

 ■flouble the length of kidney. Kidney band-like, three times the 

 length of the pericardium (in the type species). 



Tt/pe. — Sonorella hachitana (Dall). 



Diitribution. — Xew Mexico, Arizona (and probably southern 

 Oalifornia and adjacent portions of Lower California and Mexico). 



Affinities. — Sonorella is like Ashmunella in genitalia except that 

 the spermatheca is normally developed and the epiphallus is more 

 embraced by the penis retractor muscle. It also agrees in the 

 pallial organs except that the lung is shorter. The shell differs 

 widely from that of Ashmunella, being like the dart-bearing Galifor- 

 nian Helices, from which Sonorella differs greatly in genitalia, and 

 to a less degree in the shorter lung, with but slightly developed vena- 

 tion on the cardiac side of the rachis. The new genus therefore 

 stands decidedly nearest to Ashmunella, but in some important 

 characters (spermatheca, jaw and shell) it is like Epiphragmophora, 

 and thus is a connecting link between the two groups. 



Sonorella hacMtana. 



The specimens examined were collected by Rev. E. H, Ashmuu, 

 at Oak Creek, Purtyman's, Arizona. 



Genitalia (PI. XXI, fig 5). — Atrium extremely short. Penis 

 slender and small, continued beyond its apex in an epiphallus of 

 about the same diameter, its lower portion somewhat sinuous and com- 

 pletely enveloped in the lower portion of the penis retractor muscle, 

 which has the usual insertion on the lung floor. Latter portion of 

 the epiphallus free, ending in an extremely short flagellum (fig. 

 5, fl.). The vagina is much longer than the penis; spermatheca 

 ovate and very large, with the duct enlarged for some distance 

 near it ; lodged near the heart, and caught in the cephalic loop 

 of the aorta. Duct of the spermatheca very long and slender. 

 Other 2 organs as in Helicidce generally. 



Measurements : length of penis 6 mm. ; of epiphallus, portion 

 imbedded in peuis 5, free portion 6 mm.; of flagellum .7 mm. 




558 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Length of vagina 8 mm. ; of spermatheca and its duct 35 mm. ; 

 diam. of spermatheca 3.5 mm. 



PalUal trad (PI, XXI, fig. 2). — Lung reticulation ahnost wholly 

 confined to the intestinal side, where the venation is transverse 

 and branching. Cardiac side almost plain, with only a few faint 

 branches, except toward the anterior extremity. Pulmonary vein 

 simple and direct, with no large branches. 



Kidney half the length of the lung, three times that of the 

 pericardium, narrow and band-like. Ureter reflexed, as usual. 



Digestive tract. — Jaw (PI. XXI, fig. 4) similar to that of many 

 Epiphragmophora species, .short and stout, with five or six strong 

 ribs a little wider than their intervals, and grouped in the median 

 portion, denticulating both margins; the ends of the jaw smooth. 



Teeth (PI. XXI, fig. 3), 37, 1, 37 ; 13 laterals. Rachidiaa 

 with the cusp shorter than the basal plate, laterals with it longer, 

 the side cusps obsolete. Marginals with the cusps split, as in Ash- 

 mimella and Pobjcjyra. 



Salivary- glands (PI. XXI, fig. 2, s.g.) long and irregular, con- 

 crescent above the crop by several bands and filaments; separate 

 below. Crop long and tapering. Stomach thick. Folds of ihe 

 intestine mostly exposed on the lower (inner) face of the left lobe of 

 the liver, part of G only immersed. 



Free muscles (PI. XXI, fig. 1). — Left ocular band uniting with 

 the pharyngeal retractor (on its ventral face) at about the posterior 

 third of the length of the latter; all the other main muscles fiee 

 except at the coluraellar insertion where they unite. Buccal retrac- 

 tor (ph. r. ) split into three bands anteriorly, the two lateral branches 

 once forked. Ocular bands giving off a group of pedal retractors, 

 and the tentacular retractors (r.t.r.). Tail retractor (t.r.) rather 

 long (pulled to the left in the figure). The right ocular retractor 

 passes between the c? and ? branches of the genitalia. 



Comparison with other Genera. 



The genitalia of Sonorella agree with Ashmunella in wanting any 

 trace of dart-sack or mucous glaids. The duct of the sperma- 

 theca is very long, as in that genus, but it expands into a large 

 ovate spermatheca, as in Epiphragmophora, while in Ashmunella 

 there is no distal enlargement. The structure of the male orirans is 

 like Ashmunella, even in the minute vestigial tlagcllum; but while 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA, 559 



Ashmunella has a double insertion of the penis retractor, which is 

 attached to both jenis and epiphallus, in Sonorella the retractor 

 muscle envelopes the lower portion of the epiphallus, down to the 

 penis. This is a further development of the other structure. In 

 one species of the subgenus Micrarionta examined by Mr. Vanatta 

 and myself,^ the dart-sack is much reduced in size, but the mucous 

 glands remain, the flagelluni is long, and the right ocular retractor 

 does not pass between c? and ? branches of the genitalia. These 

 features are all unlike hachifana. 



The pallial organs are much alike in Sonorella, Ashmunella* and 

 Epiphragmophora (^exarata a.nd Jidelis the only species examined)- 

 but the venation of the cardiac side is decidedly sparser in the 

 former two, and the kidney is comparatively longer (or perhaps it 

 should be said the lung is shorter) in Sonorella, being only about 

 twice the length of the kidney. The proportionate length of peri- 

 cardium is nearly the same m A-shmunella and Sonorella. Polyr/yra 

 has a somewhat longer kidney than any of the other genera men- 

 tioned. 



The teeth are like Ashmunella except in the obsolescence of side 

 cusps on the central and lateral teeth. The jaw is decidedly like 

 that of Epiphragmophora in both shape and ribbing. 



In the free muscles, Sonorella agrees with Ashmunella, Epi- 

 phragmophora fidelis and infumata, and even with Helix aspersa, in 

 having the left ocular and pedal band united with the pharyngeal 

 retractor, the right ocular and pedal hand separate to its insertion. 

 This arrangement may prove to prevail in the whole of the Belo- 

 gona, though my observations so far cover too few species to gen- 

 eralize upon. In Poh/gijra a Avidely different arrangement obtains: 

 the right ocular and pedal band being united tcith the left to a 

 point anterior to the origin of the pharyngeal retractor. This 

 arrangement recalls Limax, and is widely different from Sonorella 

 or Epiphragmophora. 



* Epiphragmophora {Micrarionta) guadalupiana Dall. These Proceed- 

 ings for 1898, p. 68, PL I, fig. 11. 



*The lung of Ashmunella thomsonianoj portera is shown in fig. 6 of PI. 

 XXL Except for the pulmonary vein it appears plain unless viewed by trans- 

 mitted light, when a sparse venation similar to that of Sonorella apptars, 

 chiefly on the intestinal side. The kidney is abont 3^^ times the length of 

 the pericardium, the lung decidedly over double the length of kidney. 

 Measuremenis are as follows: total length of lung 26, of kidney 12 mm.; 

 and another specimen, lung 24, kidney 11 mm. : the last wns measured from 

 the outside through the transparent mantle. The specimens were from the 

 type locality, Beulah, X. M., sent by Prof. T. D. A. Cockerell. 




560 proceedings of the academy of [1900. 

 Species of Sonorella. 



The anatomy is known only in hachitana ; but from conchologi- 

 cal indications, the following specie?, originally described as 

 " Helix" or " Eplphragmophora,'' probably belong to Sonorella: 

 magdalenensis Stearns, coloradoensis Stearns,^ arizonensis Dall, 

 rowelli Newc, indioensis Yates and lohrii Gabb, possibly also the 

 true carpenteri Newc, though if Binney's description of the gen- 

 italia of this species was from a correctly determined specimen, it 

 will belong to Epiphragmophora. In the Classified Catalogue 

 published in the Nautilus, p, 5 of separate copies, the new genus 

 will probably include numbers 29 or 30 to 35. 



Sonorella is probably not much nearer Epiphragmojjhora in shell 

 characters than Askmunella is to Polygyra ; but in this case the 

 distribution is less restricted and compact, and the prediction of 

 generic position by shell characters may perhaps not have the 

 brilliant fufillment that further material has demonstrated in the 

 case of Ashmunella. Still I feel some confidence in the list as 

 given. 



This is the third American genus of Belogona established since 

 the publication of my Guide to the Study of Helices, in 1895, the 

 others being Ashmunella Pils. and Ckll. and Metostracon Pils. In 

 internal structure the American Belogona euadenia are vastly 

 more varied than any known in the Old World. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE XXI. 



Fig. 1. Sonorella hachitaiia (Dall). Free muscles, dorsal aspect, 

 the tail retractor brought to the left side, l.r., left la- 

 bial retractor; pn.r., pharyngeal retractor; pp.r., pedal 

 retractors; r.o.t.r., right ocular tentacle retractor; 

 r.t.r., right tentacular retractor; t.r., tail retractor. 



Fig. 2. Pallial region and digestive tract, X 2. G\ G\ second 

 and fourth folds of the intestine; k., kidney; m., man- 

 tle; p., pneumostome; s.g., salivary glands; »., ureter. 



Fig. 3. Teeth. 



Fig. 4. Jaw. 



Fig. 5. Genitalia. epi., epiphallus; /., flagellum; p., penis; 

 p.r., retractor muscle of the penis; sp., spermatheca; 

 sp.d., duct of the spermatheca. 



Fig. 6. Ashmunella thomsoniana portera- P. and C. Pallial organs. 



* I have not seen authentic specimens of coloradoensis and arizonensis 

 and insert thoiu with some reserve. 




1900,] NATUEAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 561 



ON THE ZOOLOGICAL POSITION OF PARTULA AND ACHATINELLA. 

 BY HEXRY A. PILSBRY, SC. D. 



The classification of the land snails has an attraction for the 

 systematic or morphological malacologist disproportionate to the 

 rank of the group; and once entered upon, the phylogenetic prob- 

 lems presented for solution are surpassed in interest by those of no 

 other group, unless it be the Chitons. The great amount of work 

 along sound lines that has been done since the days of Beck and 

 Held has merely opened the mine, as it were; and the wealth in 

 sight is more abundanc than our generation can develop. 



In dealing with Partula and Achatinella^ it appears that nothing 

 yet written upon their structux*e and its meaning goes to the root 

 of the matter. Fischer, in his admirable Manuel, subordinates 

 PaHula to Bulimulus as a subgenus, and places the family 

 Achat'inellklce between the Stenogijridce and the Suecineidce. 

 Kobelt" considers Partula to be closely alhed to Placostylus, a 

 genus of the Bullmulidce ; and others have held a like opinion. 

 Semper grouped Partula with Placostijlu.^, but in his posthumous 

 appendix on the pulmonate kidney, he recognizes that it has the 

 basommatophorous arrangement of kidney and ureter (p. 70). 



It is generally agreed that the primary division of the Stylom- 

 matophores into Monotremata and Ditremata^ is a just one, though 

 the fact expressed in the names has a significance quite secondary 

 to that of the diverse modification of the pallial organs in the two 

 groups. 



From the Monotremata arose a lateral line, profoundly modified 

 in the structure of the lung, etc., the Athoracophoridce or Janel- 



^ I have been assisted in the examination of these snails by Mr. E. G. 

 Vanatta. 



^ Syst. Conchyl. Cabinet, edit. 2, Placostylus, p. 5, 1891. 



'I used the more expressive term I'eleirematn in my Catalogue of Ameri- 

 can Land Shells, but as stability is better thau meaning in nomenclature, 

 the innovation was probably unwise. 




■562 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



lidce. Our knowedge of the morphology of this branch is largely 

 ■due to Dr. Ludwig Plate, who proposes the term Tracheopulmonata 

 -for the JanelUdce, the remainder of the monotremate group taking 

 that of Vasopuhnonata. 



The two groups Ditremata and Tracheopulmonata are strongly 

 specialized, and far from the main line of descent of the mass of 

 the Stylommatophores. 



The group of Vasopulmonata, comprising a vast majority of the 

 ^ir-breathing snails, has been divided into families by characters 

 ■of the jaw, teeth, shell, caudal pore, scarcely any two authors 

 agreeing in the number or limits of the families so established. 

 No one can review the classifications given by various autiiors dur- 

 ing the past decade without being impressed by the chaotic condition 

 of the subject. This is largely due to the use of external or peri- 

 pheral organs in taxonomy ; the jaw, teeth, caudal pore and form 

 of the shell being directly acted upon by external conditions or 

 food, consequently changing rapidly, and subject to deceptive 

 convergent development. 



The truly primary divisions of the Vasopulmonata rest upon the 

 modifications of the pallial region. In one series of forms, of 

 which BuUminiis, Partala and Achatinella are prominent members, 

 the ureter passes directly forward from the kidney, toward the 

 anterior margin of the lung. This is also, as is well known, the 

 condition of these organs in the Basommatophora, or fresh-water 

 Pulmonata, which have been generally, and I believe rightly, con- 

 sidered ancestral to the Sti/lommatophora.* Compare Partula 

 (PI. XVII, fig. 8) and Limnoia (PI. XVII, fig. 2). This direct 

 form of kidney and ureter, together with various other characters, 

 indicates, in my opinion, that Partula and its fellows with a direct 

 ureter are members of an ancient and ancestral group lying at the 

 very base of the vasopulmonate phylum. This group I propose to 

 call Orthurethra. 



In all the other groups of Vasopulmonata the position of the 

 ureter relative to other pallial organs has been changed, though 

 least in the Succineidcc and certain maeroogonous genera. From 

 the apex of the kidney the ureter is abruptly reflexed, passing to 

 the posterior end of the lung-cavity. Thence an open groove or 



* Compare Semper, Beisen im Archip. Phil., Ill, zweites Erganzungslieft, 

 p. 70. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 563 



a closed tube continues across to the last fold of the gut, which it 

 follows forward to the mantle-edge. This continuation of the 

 ureter is morphologically merely a narrow strip of the aerating 

 surface of the lung set apart by a slight ridge to form a canal, or, 

 in more advanced forms, a tube. It has been aptly called the 

 "secondary ureter," or the gut ureter — Darmharnleiter of Ger- 

 man anatomists. The snails having this sigmoid form of ureter 

 (PI. XVII, fig. 6) I propose to segregate as a group, Sigmiirethra, 

 taxonomically standing equal in rank to its parent group, the 

 Orthurethra. The open or closed condition of the secondary 

 ureter is a matter of very little importance. The backward flexure 

 ■ of the primary or true ureter is the significant character, indicating 

 as it does a total change in the route by which the " urine " is 

 'Conducted from the system. 



The group Orthurethra consists, so far as I know, of some four 

 • or five families, not separated by characters of great imjiortaiice. 

 "The Sigmurethra, on the other hand, contains numerous family 

 .groups of very unequal relationships ir^ier se. The further division 

 of the group is based upon characters of the foot, lung, central 

 nervous system, radula, etc.,° the main outlines or skeleton of the 

 system being about as follows: 



I. Margin of the foot defined by grooves, etc. , . Aulacopoda. 



.II. No pedal grooves. 



A. None of the teeth of the aculeate or thorn -like type; 

 jaw present, distinct, Holopoi>a. 



B. All of the teeth aculeate, thorn-shaped; jaw often obso- 

 lete. Carnivorous. 



a. Cerebral ganglia concentrated, in close contact, 



Agnathomorpha. 

 /5. Cerebral ganglia separated, a rather long commis- 

 sure connecting them, Agnatha. 



° Full discussion of the divisions of Sigmurethra is not practicable in this 

 place as it will require extensive illustration. Moreover, material in some 

 familes is still eluding me I have therefore not attempted a paitial treat- 

 ment, but merely give a synopsis of results. 




564 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1900- 



The system of Vasopuhnonata may then be roughly tabulated 

 thus : 



Holopoda. 



Agnathomorpha. J 



Agnatba. 



Aalacopoda. 



r Partulidse. 

 r Subdivisions, if Pupidje. 

 Ortburetbra. \ any. to be de- \ ? Valloniidae. 



[ termined. ?Cochlicopidse. 



I Acbatinellidse. 

 Hetemretbra. Elasmognatba. Succineidse. 



Acavidse. 

 Helicidse. 

 Bulimulidse. 

 Vasopulmonata. -' noiopoiui. -■ xjrocoptidse. 



Clausiliidae. 

 Achatiaidae. 

 Glandinidae. 

 Rhytididaj. 

 StreptaxidiE. 

 Circinariidne. 

 Sigmuretbra. J I Agnatba. Testacellidae. 



Zonitidfe. 

 Limacidse. 

 Endodontidae. 

 Arionidae. 

 Pliilomycidte. 



Probably there are some other groups of family value, though, 

 of course, no anatomist could multiply families with the liberal 

 hand of some i-ecent writers. 



The family Aeavidce is here understood to be equivalent to the 

 Acavime of my arrangement of Helices, with the addition of 

 Strophocheilu^, which forms a remarkable and archaic subfamily. 

 The Helicidce is not the group so called by Fischer, but stands 

 as defined in Man. Conch. (2), ix, m/»((x the !Macroogona. Cir- 

 cinariidfe is a new name for Selenitidct, Selenite-s being preoccupied. 

 I have elsewhere discussed the families of Anlacopoda. The 

 Ut'ocoptidce ( Cijl'mdrelUdte) and Piipidiv have been sadly mixed 

 by Fischer; the former family has been the subject of a paper by 

 Mr. Vanatta and myself.* Other families need no special remark. 



The foregoing is sufficient to show tlie general position in the 

 system of Achatlnella and Partula, which may now be considered 

 in more detail. What follows is the joint work of Mr. E. G. 

 Vanatta and myself. 

 Partula rosea Broil. 



The specimens dissected were collected by Andrew Garrett. 



Pallial organs (PI. XVII, fig. 8). — The pulmonary vein is the 



« Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 189S, p. 2(>4. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 565 



only blood-vessel visible on tbe lung wall, the general sui-face being 

 smooth, densely peppered with white specks in parallel liues; the 

 heart is placed obliquely against the kidney (fig. 8, k.), which is 

 «hort and triangular. From the apex of tne kidney arises the 

 ureter (fig. 8, u.), which runs directly forward, opening by a 

 lateral pore at its end, which is remote from the mantle edge. 



Digestive system. — The' jaw and teeth have been described by 

 Binney and others. There is a fusiform crop and moderately 

 dilated stomach (fig. 8). 



Genitalia (PI. XVII, fig. 1). — The penis is quite stout with ter- 

 minal retractor, and divided internally into a lower, coarsely wrinkled 

 portion and an upper densely granulose and coarsely plicate por- 

 tion. The vas deferens opens above a papilla at about the lower 

 third of the granulose part. The vas deferens is bound to the 

 penis, to the vagina and basal portion of the spermatheca (the 

 adnate portion being shown by dotted lines in fig. 1) ; it is then 

 free as far as the upper portion of the oviduct, where it is again 

 shortly adnate. The ovisperm duct is strongly knotted as usual. 



The basal portion or duct of the spei'matheca is much swollen, 

 the upper part being conspicuously smaller and tapering. There 

 is an egg in the oviduct in the preparation figured. 



Free muscles (PI. XVII, fig. 4), — The buccal retractor is free to 

 its proximal insertion. At about the middle of its length the left 

 ocular and tentacular retractor joins it, and a little further out the 

 anterior foot retractors branch off". The broad posterior pedal or 

 tail retractor is united far forward Avitli the right ocular and tenta- 

 cular retractor, which gives off a group of anterior pedal retractors 

 (fig. 4). The right ocular retractor passes between cJ* and 9 

 branches of the genitalia. 



This muscle system differs from that of Achatinella chiefly in 

 the union of the right ocular retractor with the tail retractor. In 

 the latter genus both ocular retractors are free. 

 Achatinella dolei Baldwin. 



The specimens dissected were received from Mr. D. D. Baldwin. 



Pallial organs (PI. XVII, fig. 3). — The broad pulmonary vein 

 is the only conspicuous blood-vessel. The surface of the lung is 

 heavily pigmented and intensely black, except anteriorly near the 

 rectum, where it is paler. It is traversed by ver}' fine veins trans- 

 verse to the pulmonary vein. The heart lies parallel with the 

 37 




566 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900- 



kidney. The anterior end of the pericardium and the adjacent 

 surface of the kidney are blotched and dotted with black pigment. 

 The kidney is bulbous or ovate, passing into a wide, pale-colored 

 ureter, which runs directly forward nearly to the anterior edge of 

 the mantle. From its apex a narrow ridge or thread runs back- 

 ward a short distance on the side toward the rectum; the space 

 between this thread and the ureter having the pigment arranged in 

 oblique stride. 



Digestive system (PI. XVII, fig. 3). — The jaw and teeth of Achati- 

 nella have frequently been figured, and need not be described here. 

 The salivary glands {s.g. and fig. 3a) are united above and 

 below the oesophagus, forming a complete ring. The oesophagus is 

 long and unusually slender, not dilated into a crop. The stomach 

 is much lengthened, curved at the end. Intestine unusually long, 

 especially the fourth fold (fig. 3, on the right side). 



Genitalia (PI. XVII, fig. 7). — The external orifice is on the left 

 side, as usual in sinistral species. The penis is moderate in length, 

 cylindrical, with terminal retractor muscle and vas deferens. 

 From the middle of its length arises a very long, vermiform appen- 

 dix {ap.), which is irregularly coiled, and between the lower third 

 and fourth of its length is conspicuously constricted for a short 

 distance. Near the base of the appendix a branch of the retrac- 

 tor muscle is inserted, passing to the apex of the penis. The 

 lumen of the penis is narrowed above by two large pdasters, at the 

 apical end of which the vas deferens enters. The orifice commu- 

 nicating with the cavity of the appendix is situated at the lower 

 end of one of the pilasters. 



The vas deferens is completely free from the other organs, from 

 its lower insertion to the base of the albumen gland, where it 

 becomes adnate. 



The vagina is quite short. The spermatheca is small and ovat^, 

 upon a very long, slender duct, and is imbedded in the albumen 

 gland (but shown removed therefrom in the figure). There is a 

 long free oviduct, and a sacculated uterus, much distended by the 

 young contained in the individual figured. The albumen gland is 

 divided into slender cicca (fig. la), clustered in a dense mass. 



Free muscles (PL XVII, fig. 5). — The retractor muscles of the 

 tentacles are free from the tail retractor, anrt both divide into three 

 branches, ocular, tentacular and anterior pedal, at about the mid- 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 567 



die of their length. The left ocular baud passes between cT and 

 ? branches of the genitalia. The buccal retractor (pLr.) unites 

 with the left tentacular band at about the posterior fourth of the 

 latter ; it is deeply bifurcate anteriorly. The retractor of the tail 

 (f./-. ) is normal except in its freedom from both tentacular bands. 



While Achatinella is obviously allied to Partula by the direct 

 ureter and plain aerating surface of the lung, it differs so conspicu- 

 ously in other characters that no very close relationship can be 

 admitted. The ureter in Achatinella approaches nearer to the 

 anterior edge of the mantle, and has a terminal ridge, apparently 

 homologous with that of Limncea. The digestive system is length- 

 ened, though of the ordinary four-folded type. The genital 

 system approaches that of Bidiminus in the appendix of the penis, 

 but is peculiar in the freedom of the vas deferens from the ovi- 

 duct. In this peculiarity, however, PaHula shares to a great 

 extent, the adhesions being superficial. The unique structure 'of 

 the albumen gland and its envelopment of the spermatheca are 

 more aberrant cha'*acters. Usually a long-stalked spermatheca* is 

 caught with the gut by the cephalic branch of the aorta, and lies 

 near the heart, separated irom the albumen gland. 



The family Achatinelliche is apparently a group of great an- 

 tiquity, the archaic pallial organs and male genitalia being 

 associated with peculiarly specialized female reproductive organs. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE XVII. 



Fig. 1. Partula rosea. Genitalia. 



Fig. 2. Limncea stagnalis. Pallial region and digestive tract. 



Fig. 3. Achatinella dolei. Pallial region and digestive tract. 



Fig. 3a. Acliatinella dolei. Lateral view of salivary gland. 



Fig. 4. Partula rosea. Free retractor muscles, dorsal aspect. 



Fig. 5. Achatinella dolei. Free retractor muscles, dorsal aspect. 



Fig. 6. Rumina decollata. Pallial region and digestive tract. 



Fig. 7. Achatinella dolei. Genitalia. 



Fig. 7o. Achatinella dolei. jNIore enlarged tubules of the albumen 

 gland. 



Fig. 8. Partula rosea. Pallial region 



ap., appendix; k., kidney; l.o.r., left ocular retractor; 

 l.t.r., left tentacular retractor; x>h., pharynx; s.g., sal- 

 ivary gland; sp., spermatheca; s.u., secondary ureter; 

 t r., tail retractor; u., ureter. 




568 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



THE GENESIS OF MID-PACIFIC FAUNAS. 

 BY HENRY A. PIL.SBRY. 



The new system and implied pliylogeny of the Yasopulmonata 

 outlined in my paper on Partula and Achatinella throw a new 

 light upon the constitution of the island faunas of the Pacific, and 

 reopen the whole discussion of their origin and distribution. 



Within the last decade a South Pacific continent, stretching its 

 great arc from New Zealand to Chili, has been postulated by Dr. 

 von Ihering^ and Professor Hutton,* while Dr. G. Baur* has also 

 adduced evidences toward a similar conclusion. This hypothesis 

 will be alluded to below. The views of Wallace regarding these 

 faunas, based upon the absence of amphibia and terrestrial mam- 

 mals, and upon certain geological considerations, have been accepted 

 by the great majority of zoogeographers, who hold that the Poly- 

 nesian faunas have been forever insular, and have derived their 

 constituents from circura-Pacific continents by over-sea drift, and 

 by wind or birds carrying animals or their eggs. 



To the student of vertebrates such conclusions seem justified by 

 the facts ; but a little reflection shows one that opinions based upon 

 the distribution of vertebrates may require radical revision when 



1 Trans. New Zealand Institute, XXIV, 1892, " On the Aucient Relations 

 betAveen New Zealand and South America." 



2 troc. Linn. Soc. of JVeic South Wales, 1896, p. 36, "Theoretical Expla- 

 nations of the Distribution of Southern Faunas." Professor Hutton has given 

 so full a summary of the principal literature bearing upon the subject, that 

 I feel it iinnece.'isary to lengthen the present conimunieation by a bibliography. 

 Two strong papers upon ssimilar topics have appeared in the same periodical 

 since Hntton's paper — Deane's " President's Address." P. L. S X ^'. W. for 

 1896, p. 821, and Medley's "A Zoogeographie Scheme for the Mid-Pacific," 

 1899, P- 391. 



^American Naturalist, XXXI, 1897. 




1900.] XATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 569 



invertebrate groups are taken into consideration. This is especially 

 true in zoogeographic matters because the higher groups have 

 changed rapidly, the lower slowly. Many genera of land snails 

 reach back to the oligocene unchanged save in specific characters, 

 and there can be no reasonable doubt that the modern family 

 groups of these snails diverged far back in mesozoic time ; yet 

 hoAv complete a revolution the brief pliocene wrought in mammalian 

 life! A land mass isolated in, say, mid-tertiary or oligocene times, 

 "Would necessarily be lacking in many important mammalian genera 

 and families developed subseijuently, yet it might be quite identical 

 in molluscan genera with the tract from which it was insulated. 

 The existing famihes and genera of even the reptiles and batrach- 

 ians do not have the antiquity of groups of the same nominal rank 

 among non-marine moliusks. But no especial argument need be 

 made here in support of the thesis that s/te rate of structural differ- 

 entiation has been constantly accelerated as animals rose higher in the 

 scale; and therefore it follows that zoogeographic " provinces" 

 based upon the distribution of land snails or earthworms, for 

 instance, recall older arrangements of sea and land than those 

 based upon the distribution of terrestrial vertebrates — mammals 

 and birds. 



Now upon glancing at the table of mid-Pacific faunas on p. 576, 

 the student of continental molluscan faunas will first notice the 

 great rarity of Holopoda, and the total absence of Agnathomorj^ha 

 and Agnatha, and of the more specialized and presumably late 

 Aulacopod families Limacidce, Arionidce, Philomycidce, as well as 

 the highly organized forms of Zonitidce with complicated genitaha> 

 such as the Ariophantince. This leaves a fauna composed almost 

 exclusively of Orthurethra, Elasmognatha, and the less specialized 

 families of Aulacopoda. The land operculates are chiefly Realiidce 

 and Helicinidce ; and in the fresh-water faunas, Limncea, Planor- 

 his and Physa of the continents give place to ' ' Bulinus," a stock 

 probably ancestral to P/a?ior 6 i-s; and "Melania" alone represents 

 the prosobranchs. 



The significance of a fauna so constituted becomes startling when 

 we consider that the Orthurethra are a little-changed remnant of 

 the parent stock of all Vasopulmonata; the Elasmognatha are an 

 early branch of this stock, while the Aulacopoda are unquestion- 

 ably, on anatomical grounds, the lowest branch of the Sigmurethra 




570 



PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1900. 



or ordinary land snails/ Is not the whole fauna what we would 

 expect in a region populated near the time of divergence of the 

 earlier groups of Vasopulmonates, and isolated since ? Or, to state 

 the question in its bald entirety: 



Are the mid-Pacific snail faunas witnesses to the existence of a 

 palceozoic or early mesozoic land mass, probably continental in pro- 

 portio7is, and peopled by representatives of nearly all land-snail 

 groups then existing f 



A negative answer implies the alternate '^hypothesis that these 

 faunas are a.ssemblages of waifs, the sur\nvors of many a precari- 

 ous voyage. An affirmative answer should give reasons for the 

 supposition of more extended land area than^now exists, and for 

 the geologic date assigned. 



The primitive or antique character of the Polynesian faunas, 

 commented on above, may lie graphically represented by a table, 

 in which the families and genera of land^Pulmonates of continents 



* See these Proceedings, p. 564, for a sketch of tlie classification of Palnio- 

 nates. The earlier phylogeny of the main groups may be roughly represented 

 by the following diagram : 



Basomiuatophora 

 The line x-y may represent the degree of differentiation reached when the 

 Pacific land-faunas were established. Subsequent differentiation is not rep- 

 resented on the diagram. 




1900.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



571 



or continental islands are contrasted with those of the mid-Pacific. 

 I select continental Xorth America, Great Britain and the Philip- 

 pine Islands for this purpose, merely because good recent lists lie 

 on my desk ;° but practically the same results would be seen were 

 I to contrast South America, the Antilles, Africa, Europe or 

 Australia with the Pacific archipelagos. 



DiTEEMATA : ^ 



Veronicellidse, Eathouisiidse 



Okthtjbethka : 



Acbatinellidfe 



Partulidfe 



Pupidte 



Heteeueethra : 



Succineidse 



SiGMUEETHRA : (Aulacopocla): 



Zonitidfe^ 



Liiuacidse 



Endodontidas 



Arionidise 



Philomycidfe , 



{^Agnatha and Agnathomorpha) : 



Testacellidse 



Glandinidse 



Streptaxidte 



Circinariidfe 



{Holopoda): 



Helicidse 



Bulimulidje 



Urocoptidte 



Achatinidje * 



Clausiliidae 



11 



4 

 4 

 3 



* In tabulating the genera I have t^aken a few liberties ^ith the Concholog- 

 ical Society's British list, in subdividing their "Helix" group, and with 

 Dr. von Moellendorff's Philippine list in lumping some of his families of 

 Holopoda. These changes are made merely that the values of the groups 

 nsed may be more uniform. To count families and genera in the three lists 

 as they stand would give a false idea. 



® Existing Ditremata may be looked upon as excessively modified from a 

 very old branch of Pulmonates. I cannot accept Dr. von Ihering's theory of 

 the primitive structure of Vaginulus, or the homology of the Stylommato- 

 phore lung -with a renal duct. 



' The Polynesian Zonitidce. are all unspecialized genera, the Philippine 

 mainly of more complex structure, and the British and American partly so. 



* This family is used here in the conventional sense, synonymous with 

 Fischer's Stenogyridce. We know little of the structure of many small mem- 

 bers, but probably they will group in two rather widely separated families. 




572 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900^ 



Xote that the Sigmurethra in Xorth America number 11 family 

 groups and 47 genera (Avith a vast preponderance of species), to 3 

 families and 7 genera of all other (lower) Stylommatophores. In 

 Polynesia there are only about as many genera of Sigmurethra as 

 of Orthurethra, and nearly the whole of the former belong to low 

 and primitive types of Aulacopoda. 



But, it may be objected, oceanic faunas are thus unsymmetrical 

 from the very nature of the accidental means by which oceanic 

 islands have been populated. Granted; but is there any reason 

 why the occasional and unusual vehicles by which such population 

 is effected should act with exclusive discrimination against whole 

 series of higher groups, in favor of the lower ? It is very easy to 

 show that snails may have been carried from place to place by a 

 hurricane, a floating tree or " floating island," or their eggs may 

 find room in the pellet of earth clinging to a bird's feather; but it 

 is incumbent upon the theorist who peoples the mid-Pacific islands 

 by such means to show why such dominant groups as the Helicidce, 

 BulimuUdce, Rhytididce, Streptaxidte — in fact, the whole Holopoda 

 and Aguathomorpha, with higher members of Aulacopod families, 

 as well as the higher operculates— should have utterly failed to 

 take advantage of these means of transport. 



To the possible objection that low forms survive an ocean voyage 

 better than high, may be urged the fact that such has not been the 

 case in Madeira, the Azores, Cape Verdes, St, Helena or Bermuda, 

 in all of which Holopod groups occur, and in many cases were 

 established long enough ago to become geuerically or specifically 

 differeutiated. To the further objection that the primitive groups^ 

 may adapt themselves more readily to new environments, the same 

 argument applies. Moreover, it is well known that the most suc- 

 cessful emigrants of all snails are species of the highly organized 

 or specialized Helicidiv, Achat'inidxv, Limacidce and Avion idee, 

 which have followed modern agricultui'e and commerce all over the 

 world. Although a number of snails have been introduced by 

 commerce into Polynesia from the East Indies, Europe or America, 

 I know of no single case of a Polynesian snail becomiug 

 acclimated in any other part of the world. 



The advocate of a Polynesian waif fauna is then compelled to 

 adopt the view either that accessions to the mid-Pacific snail faunas 

 practically stopped a long time ago, from causes unknown or 




1900.] XATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57o 



hypothetical, or that an unparalleled series of accidents intervened 

 to prevent the, in recent times, ubiquitous and prominent continental 

 groups of snails from effecting a landing in these islands. 



Wallace derives the Polynesian faunas from his Australian 

 region, mainly on the endence of the birds. But no such idea can 

 be entertained regarding the snails. In a rich development of 

 Endodontidce, the two areas agree; but that family is of world- 

 wide distribution and known great antiquity, and therefore proves 

 nothing. Xowhere in Australia, Xew Zealand or adjacent islauds^ 

 do we find a parent stock for the most characteristic of Polynesian 

 groups, the Orthurethra. Australia itself has of this group onlv 

 modern continental types of Pupidce — Pupa, Pupoide-i and Bifid- 

 aria,^ which probably reached that continent with the epiphallo- 

 gonous Helices, from an East Asiatic center. If there were earlier 

 Australian Orthurethra, they became wholly extinct before the 

 higher snail groups which have long occupied Australian soil. 

 Most of the Pupidce (except Bifidaria) and the few other Orthu- 

 rethra, such as Tornatellina and Partula, which extend into- 

 Melanesia, etc. , are Polraesian in their affinities, and e^ddently to 

 be regarded as outhnng colonies from that centre, derived from the 

 western edge of the Pacitlc land. Far from being a faunal depen- 

 dency of the Australian or Oriental regions, Polynesia has every 

 appearance of being a region which started with a fauna long 

 antedating the present Australian and Oriental faunas, developing 

 along its own lines, retaining old types because they did not come 

 into competition with the higher groups developed on the greater 

 and less isolated continents." It is significant that the typical 

 Polynesian groups attain their acme of structural as well as specific 

 diflf^erentiation in the mid-Pacific Society and Hawaiian groups. 

 Were these faunas derived from waifs drifted, blown or otherwise 

 carried from the Australian or Oriental regions, we might reason- 

 ably expect a diminution from the West outward, such as the 

 Azores show compared with Madeira, or Bermuda compared with 

 the Bahamas. 



On the supposition that Pol}Tiesia has always had the constitu- 



' These Proceedings, p. 426. 



^° It seems characteristic of islands that while specific differentiation usually 

 proceeds apace, more fundaruenta! changes are retarded, or perhaps, more prop- 

 erly, are not induced ; and the faunae lag behind those of the continents, old 

 types lingering on. 




574 PEOCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



tion the name implies, it is difficult to see why agencies which 

 introduced representatives of some eight families of snails into the 

 Hawaiian group should totally fail to act during the late me- 

 sozoic and tertiary. Even AVallace felt that some explanation was 

 called for, and speaks vaguely of the " extensive shoals to the 

 south and southwest " and " two deep submarine banks in the 

 north Pacific between the Sandwich Islands and San Francisco."" 



Dr. G. Baur, in discussing the Galapagos fauna, applied the 

 terms '* harmonic " and " disharmonic " to island faunas and floras. 

 The fauna or flora of a continental island will be harmonic^ 

 because it will share the several groups of the parent continent in 

 due proportion. An island elevated from the sea bottom and not 

 connected with other land will have a disharmonic fauna and flora 

 — " that is to say, it will be composed of a mixture of forms which 

 have been introduced accidentally from other places." 



It is almost inconceivable that a number of widely separated 

 islands of oceanic origin should agree or be harmonic among each 

 other in their faunal constituents; but taking the Polynesian groups 

 included in or adjacent to a triangle with the Hawaiian Islands, 

 Marquesas and Samoan groups at the angles, we find a remarkable 

 agreement between their faunas. Comparing any one with the 

 nearest continental faunas of to-day, they seem disharmonic; but 

 among themselves there exists a remarkable homogeneity; and if we 

 compare them with what the continental faunas must have been 

 shortly after the divergence of the Holopod from the Aulacopod 

 Sigmurethra, it will be seen that Polynesia now possesses representa- 

 tives of what must have then been all the main groups of Yasopul- 

 monata; and the preponderance of Orthurethra is precisely what 

 would be expected. 



The harmonic characters of these faunas is the more striking 

 when we compare them with the Atlantic islnnds admitted to be 

 * ' oceanic ' ' — Madeira, the Azores and the Cape Verdes. In these 

 islands the genera are all clearly derived from Eur- African sources, 

 being all either genera still existing on the mainland, or more 

 nearly allied to existing or tertiary European groups than to those 



^^ In writing that "none of these oceanic archipelagos present ns with a 

 single type which we may suppose to have been preserved from mesozoic 

 times" (I. c, p. 305), Wallace makes a statement totally at variance with 

 the nature of their laud mollusks. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 575 



of any other part of the world. Only two genera are common to 

 the three island groups and the mainland, and but one other genus 

 is common to the three archipelagos. Madeira and the Azores 

 have 7 genera in common, and Madeira and the Cape Verdes 7 ; 

 only 4 of these being identical in both cases, and this in a total 

 fauna of 21 genera, 16 of which are common to Europe and one 

 or another of the island groups. We eliminate from the account 

 all known or presumed introductions during the period of com- 

 merce. The sjDoradic or disharmonic character of the faunas is 

 strikingly illustrated by the almost omnipresent Paltearctic genera 

 Clamilia, found only in Madeira; Helicella, wanting in the 

 Azores, and, further, by the distribution of Cochlleopa, Helix, 

 Punctum, and especially Succinea and Bidimmus, both groups of 

 great antiquity, the former found on almost all islands, but want- 

 ing in the Azores and Madeira. The presence of slugs (Fluto7iia) 

 on the outlying Azores, and their absence in Madeira (until Limax 

 was inti'oduced by commerce) is also notable. 



The distances are much less than those sundering many of the 

 Pacific archipelagos, and yet their faunas are less harmonic than 

 those of Polynesia. And still in all probability the older elements 

 of these Atlantic waif faunas do not much precede the tertiary, if 

 at all, and additions by natural causes have continued to, I sup- 

 pose, the present time. Indeed, part of the common element' in 

 the three island groups may fairly be traced to a common ancestry 

 in the European tertiary, rather than to actual communication 

 between the archipelagos themselves. 




576 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1900, 



Contrast, now, a table of seven widely separated Polynesian 

 faunas: 



w 



OrtJiurethra : 



Tornat elliua 



Achatinella, etc 



Partii la 



Pupa 



Elasmognatha : 



Succinea 



Aulacopoda : 



"Microcystis " 



Trochomorpha 



Other larsrer Zonitidfe 



Flammulina 



Charopa * 



End odont a 



Holopoda : 



Opeas 



Aquatic snails : 



"Buliims " 



Melania 



Bhipidoglossa : 



Helicina 



Hydiocenidni 



Tcenioglossa : 



Realiidse 



Diplomiuatina 



Ostodes 



The remarkable homogeneity of faunas scattered over so wide an 

 area as Polynesia, indicates either a former great extension and 

 therefore approximation of the archipelagos, or that they actually 

 formed parts of a single laud mass. Although the distances be- 

 tween them are generally far greater than separate the Atlantic island 

 groups, the faunas show a much greater common elemeut; and had 

 they been derived from similar sources it is difficult to see why the 

 Atlantic faunas should be so nuich less harmonic than the Pacific. 



The former moderate extension of the Hawaiian aud other islands 

 considered probable by Wallace, while a step in the right direc- 

 tion, is iueufRcieut to account for the facts. The faunas are, in 



^^ Pupil) a and Eiilota also occur in the Carolines, 

 doubtless be recognized iti other ishmd groups. 



Flammulina will 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 577 



fact, what might be expected were they remnants of a sunken con- 

 tinent; and the waif theory signally fails to account for their com- 

 position, although no such difficulty attends its application to the 

 Atlantic islands. 



It may fairly be asked, "Why have Polynesian snail faunas failed 

 to be enriched by the action of those means of dispersal Avhich 

 peopled the Atlantic islands ? (1) Because in mid-Polynesia the 

 distances between islands are great, and few snails are likely to 

 survive the voyage, whatever the means of transport. Similarly, 

 in the Atlantic we find no American snails in the Azores in spite 

 of favoring currents. (2) There has no doubt been a certain 

 amount of exchange between the island groups. It is only thus 

 that we can explain the presence on several archipelagos of iden- 

 tical species. But this difiusion has been almost entirely resti'icted 

 to small or minute species, such as Pupidte, Bealiidce, etc. 

 "With the exception of the Auriculidce it \_Partula Jujalina] is 

 the o)ili/ species of Polynesian land shell of its size common to two 

 or three distant groups of islands. As the above statement does 

 not harmonize with the distribution of the various species of Poly- 

 nesian shells as recorded by different authors, I will add that in Dr. 

 Pfeitfer's last volume of his Mon. Heliceorwn, where he enumer- 

 ates 77 species of Polynesian (I exclude the Melanesiau and Pelew) 



Partula, there exist 26 errors in localities All the species 



which are diffused oyer one or more groups are invariably minute 

 shells."" 



These observations by the most experienced of Polynesian natur- 

 alists agree with my results in studying the Bermuda fauna," 

 and confirms the opinion that the whole Polynesian fauna cannot 

 be due to drift or chance immigrants. 



In the case of Bifidaria (Pupa pediculus), Opeas juneea, and 

 probably some other widespread species, I think it extremely likely 

 that they have been carried in vessels fi'om island to island during 

 the period of human occupancy; in some cases probably before the 

 historic period. But there doubtless are a few cases where minute 

 land snails have been carried from one archipelago to another by 

 natural means, and over vast distances. "We can hardly explain 

 otherwise the scanty faunas of most of the * ' low ' ' islands, to say 



"A. J. Garrett, in Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., VIII, 396. 

 " Trans. Conn. Acad. Sci., X. 1900. 




578 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



nothing of the unquestionable occurrence of Tornatellina in^the 

 Galapagos,^' this genus being a stranger and alien in America. 



In the southwestern Pacific, in and near the area where Forbes 

 maps his " Antipodea" and Hedley his " Melanesian Plateau," 

 comparatively recent groups have invaded a portion of what prob- 

 ably was part of the earlier Pacific land-mass. Some of the 

 early fauna remains, such as Partula and Tornatellina, but merely 

 as stragglers in a more powerful, more recent fauna, which seems 

 to justify the, hypothesis of an early or mid-tertiar^ land extending 

 ocean ward to the Fijis," such as Hedley and others advocate. Ob- 

 viously later land connections have obscured the far earlier record 

 in this area. 



That the hypothetical Pacific continent was finally separated 

 from any other land as early as the middle mesozoic would seem to 

 be indicated by the absence of numerous families of land snails 

 which had become fully differentiated by the end of the mesozoic; 

 and it is evident that the portion north of the equator must have 

 been isolated before the final separation of the remainder from the 

 mainland, not only from the high differentiation of the Achati- 

 nellidoi, but because certain operculates and some groups of 

 Zonitidce, such as Trochomorpha, did not reach the Hawaiian area. 



To the southward, it is likely that land extended from the ^[ar- 

 quesas (whence granite and gneiss have been reported) and the 

 Austral group to the Fijis or further, and northwestward possibly 

 to the Caroline and ^Marianne groups, although it is obvious that 

 these have been influenced by their proximity to the Oriental 

 region, by drift or other causes, chiefly shown in the presence of 

 Eidota, Dlplommatina and Fupina, as well as certain lizards, etc." 

 Where the Pacific continent may have touched Australo-Asiatic 

 land is of course quite idle to inquire at present." 



'* See Dall, these Pt'ocecdings for 1900, p. 95. Tornatellina chatJiamensis 

 is the sole species of Polj'uesian affinities known in the Galapagos. The 

 supposed Eitdodonta I would refer to Strobilops,&nA the Trochomorpha 

 to Guppya, both American groups. 



'® (/. Baur, Anur. Nat., 1897, p. 676, where the Batrachians and Keptiles 

 of the Fijis are discussed, with a sumujary of Wichmanu's conclusions on 

 their geology. 



"See V. Moelleudorff, Land Shells of the Caroline Islands, Journal of 

 Malacoloriy, Vll, pt. 5, 19U0. Baur, Aincr. XaturaUst, 1S97. p. 879, ct seq. 



^'Thc following extract from n letter received from Mr. Charles Hedley 

 contains suggestions of value in this connection ; 



"In a recent paper on the Caroline Island land shells by Moelleudorff I 

 have been struck by the similarity to the Tahitian fauna. Can you make 




19l/0.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rHILADELPHI A. 57!> 



It may be noted here that the distributiou of auts and lizards, 

 from which Baur argues, affords no support to the position I have 

 taken, because the former, by having a winged stage, could be 

 much more widely spread by wind than snails, and the distribution 

 of recent Pacific lacertilia cannot possibly date to nearly so early 

 an epoch as that of Polynesian laud snails, but is rather traceable 

 to later elevations, after the main mass of the ancient Pacific con- 

 tinent had been isolated or largely submerged. 



Returning to the hypothesis of Hutton and Von Ihering, it 

 remaiQs to examine the evidence for a connection between the sup- 

 posed mid or South Pacific continent and southern South America 

 or " Archiplata. " Prof. Hutton, in his temperate and judicious 

 paper of 1896, says: 



" The theory of a mesozoic South Pacific continent not only 

 explains the origin of the xlustralian and South American mar- 

 supials, but also the almost simultaneous appearance of different 

 Eutherian mammals in North and South America. We must sup- 

 pose that this continent threw off first New Zealand, then Aus- 

 tralia, then Chili, and finally disappeared under the waves 



out any sequence between the Partula from North and South Pacific ? It 

 would be interesting to learn that those of the Carolines were a derivative of 

 the Tahitian or the reverse. 



"Now if you accept my theory that the Marshall-Austral chain is not a 

 phantom but a reality, an earth-fold or line of weakness in the terrestrial 

 crust, then we may suppose a former more or less continous land cjnntction 

 between Tahiti and the Carolines. It would have served for the transmission 

 of Oarretiq, Pnrtula and your other primitive snails. On its connection by 

 drift with the Placostylus land we are agreed. In the Gilbert and the Ellice 

 Islands, as I have previously said, the land sank, drowning the primitive 

 fauna, rose again and was repopulated by drift. I am inclined to think that 

 the same fate overtook Samoa. That, however, on rising pressed an earth-fold 

 against the Fij ian massif and swelled into lofty mountains. That archipelago 

 derived Ostodes, etc., by drift from Fjji. Hence it lacked many character- 

 istic forms which survived in Tahiti. 



"A grave objection to your hypothesis, and one which deterred me from 

 valuing Tahiti as continental instead of oceanic, is that it proves too much. 

 Although a palaeozoic continent is so far back as to be almost out of sight, still 

 some other forms ought to be found to support your snail fauna. 1 do not 

 press the fact that the insect fauna is extremely poor, since insects are held 

 to be of comparatively recent date. But I do press for coUatejal evidence 

 from the vegetation. I should like to see an old proteaceous genus, for ex- 

 ample, produced. Most of all I emphasize the absence of any peculiar marine 

 moUusca. I think that Clavella is peculiar, but I have found none other. 

 The argument that Nautilus, Oncliidium and the Polyplacophora are in- 

 capable of drift and though ancient forms are conspicuousl}' absent from 

 Polynesia is worth careful attention. I do not lean on the absence of fossil- 

 iferous beds, since circumstances may be imagined under which they might 

 have existed and disappeared." 




■580 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



At a later date, as I pointed out in my former papers, New Zealand 

 must have formed part of a large island joined to New Caledonia, 

 but not to Australia. This has lately been called Antipodea by 

 Dr. Forbes, and the Melanesian Plateau by Mr. C. Hedley. Still 

 later again, New Zealand must have stretched south and obtained 

 its Antarctic fauna and flora from Patagonia through a number of 

 islands."" 



Notwithstanding the able arguments of Hutton and Yon Ihering 

 ior a connection between Chili and a Pacific continent, it seems to 

 me to involve grave, in fact insurmountable, difficulties. To have 

 supported a marsupial fauna, to say nothing of Eutherian mam - 

 mals, this continent must have persisted at least to near the end of 

 the cretaceous. But if so, it is inconceivable that there should be 

 no trace in Polynesia of characteristic land moUusks of South 

 America, and none in South America of typical Polynesian groups. 

 It is equally inconceivable that the Pacific continent completely 

 disappeared under the waves about the end of the mesozoie, and 

 that the present islands are of later appearance; for their faunas 

 bear the stamp of a vastly greater antiquity, and (always except- 

 ing the "low" islands) have not the characteristics of " drift" 

 faunas. The common elements of Australo-Zealandic and Archi- 

 platau life, such as marsupials, Bullmulidx, crawfishes, etc., are 

 conspicuously absent from Polynesia, and may better, it seems to 

 me, be accounted for by the much -discussed Antarctic route. °* I 

 cannot trace any connection between the mid-Pacific continent and 

 either of the Amei-icas, nor with any continental mass whatever 

 since the time of the advent of mammals. 



One of the chief difficulties in the theory herein advanced is 

 that many of the island groups, notably the Hawaiian, seem to be 

 ■composed of only comparatively recent volcanic and coral rocks. 

 In this connection Wichmann (as quoted by Baur) remarks: " No 

 older massive rocks or sedimentary strata are known from the other 

 *' volcanic " groups of islands of the Pacific Ocean, and on some 

 of these, for example, the Galapagos or the Sandwich Islands — it 

 seems really to be made out that they have been built up by 



" Proc. Linn. Soc. N. S. Wales, 1896, p. 46. 



'•'OThe only Polynesian type in America known to me is ToruatcJIina, in 

 the Galapagos, as already noted. A minute straggler or two may reasonably 

 be expected. The present fauna of " Archiplala '' is as remote as any ou 

 ■earth from that of Polynesia. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 581 



younger and recent volcanic masses. There is every possibility, 

 and even probability, however, that older formations served as a 

 fundament, the examination of which is prevented by the exten- 

 sive covering." 



Hedley urges the weighty objection that mesozoic plant forms 

 should have survived on so ancient a land. Possibly^the great 

 facility with which seeds may be transported over sea allowed a 

 new flora to displace the old one. 



Summary. 



The hypothesis of a late palaeozoic or early mesozoic mid-Pacific 

 continent (upon the sunken heights of which the present island- 

 masses, volcanic or coral, have been superposed) is advanced to 

 account for the constitution of Polynesian land-snail faunas, which 

 are shown to be (1) nearly homogeneous over .vast areas, (2) com- 

 posed of ancient types, with no admixture of the great series of 

 modern families, and (3) not derivable from any tertiary or mod- 

 ern continental fauna or faunas in the sense Atlantic island faunas 

 have been derived. The mollusca, land and marine, supply no 

 evidence that this Pacific continent was ever connected with or 

 faunally affected by the Americas, but emphatically deny such 

 connection. 




582 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



A PARTIAL REVISION OF THE PUP^ OF THE UNITED STATES. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY AND EDWARD G. VANATTA. 



In the present communication we have endeavored to express the 

 morphology of the " teeth " or protective armature guarding the 

 apertures of these minute land snails, in a terminology of the 

 structures involved based upon their homologies, and applicable to 

 Pup?e the world over. The I'emainder of the paper deals with 

 such particular genera and species of the United States as require 

 elucidation, and concludes with a list of the species of our fauna, 

 with a brief statement of their distribution. 



Our Pupse were first systematically studied by Dr. Augustus A. 

 Gould, who published his results in a well-cousidei'ed monograph, 

 in 1840-43.' In 1867,' Prof. E. S. Morse did some excellent 

 work on the group, particularly on the species of Kew England. 

 Mr. W. G. Binney, in his successive works of 1869, 1878, 1885 

 and 1892, included the species of our fauna then known. Finally, 

 in 1888, Dr. Victor Sterki published the first of a long series of 

 studies upon American Pupidto,^ which have marked a great ad- 

 vance in our knowledge of the group, not alone in an increased 

 number of species, but in the more just appreciation of their 

 i nterrel ation shi ps. 



Terminology of the "Teeth" of Pup.e. 



As is well known, most of the folds or teeth in the apertures of 

 Piqm have definite positions, and the principal ones are homologous 

 throughout the group. Pfeifier' adopted a system of terms for them 



' Boiton Journal of Natural History , July, 1840, Vol. Ill, p. 395 ; April, 

 1843, IV, p. 350. 



' Annals of the Lyceum of Natural Ilistory of New ForA-, Vol III (1867) , 

 p. 207. 



^Froc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., 1888; Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1890; 

 Nautilus, 1890 to 1899. 



* Monographia Hdiceorum Vicentium, II, p. 300. 




1900,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 583 



in 1848 which was excellent, but not sufficiently detailed. Most 

 later authors have followed this terminology more or less closely. 

 In 1888 Dr. V. Sterki/ in an excellent paper on Vertigo, proposed 

 to designate the principal folds by letters and the accessory ones by 

 numerals. This system, while justly discriminating between the 

 constant and variable folds, is not sufficiently self-explanatory to 

 be generally useful in descriptive work, and would require modi- 

 fications as well as additional symbols to adapt it to the description 

 of the numerous exotic Pupidte with a great number of folds or 

 teeth. 



We therefore offer below a revised terminology of the aperture 

 armature, applicable to all Pupidie, and requiring no especial 

 reference to a key, as the terms are to a large extent self-explan- 

 atory. 



The folds in Pupa are probably not truly homologous with those 

 of Clausula, though some occupy the same positions. It is there- 

 fore not practicable to use the same set of terms; but we consider 

 it essential to adhere to the principles used in the terminology of 

 the aperture armature of Clausilia as set forth by Messrs. E. A. 

 Smith and B. B. Woodward.* The plan is to call all projections 

 upon the parietal wall and columella " lamellse, " those within the 

 basal and outer walls of the aperture ' ' plicse ' ' or folds. The 

 nomenclature of particular folds is then as follows: 



= Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XI, 1888, p. 369, PL XLII, fig. 5. 



^ Annals and Magazine of Natural History (6 Ser. ) , V, 1890, p. 209. One 

 must actually use the perfected Clauailia scheme as set forth in this paper to 

 appreciate its great utility. Fifty years of development have resulted in a 

 plan of consummate simplicity for such a complex subject. Messrs. Smith 

 and Woodward deserve the gratitude of concliologists for their admirable 

 expose. Compared to this, Piqja is simplicity itself. It is much to be re- 

 gretted that recent French authors do not adopt the Schmidt-Brettger nomen- 

 clature in describing Clausilias. 




584 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1900. 



Supracolumellar 



Columellar 



Subcolumellar 



Suprapalatal 

 Upper palatal 

 Interpalatal 

 Lower palatal 

 Infraoalatal 



Fig. 1. Terminology of lamellne and folds. 



It will be seen ihat this is merely au amplitication of Pfeifter's 

 terminology of 1848. 



,But few Pupida^ have all of the folds named, and some of them 

 Ave rarely present in American species. Their positions are shown iu 




1900,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 585 



the annexed diagram, fig. 1, which is a composite, not representing 

 any special species. The infraparietal, supra- and subcolumellar 

 lamellae and the infra-, inter- and suprapalatal folds are " sec- 

 ondary " in nearly all groups, and often vary in the species. The 

 others are more constant, and vary but little in position when 

 developed. The parietal and columellar lamellce and the lower 

 palatal fold are at the angles of a nearly equilateral tnangle, when 

 the said palatal is not deeply immersed. This is u^seful as fixing 

 the identity of the lower palatal, not always clear in multidentate 

 forms, or in those wheie there has been extensive reduction of 

 teeth ; these three being usually retained when all others have dis- 

 appeared. Thus in Pupa hlandi or triplicata only tiie lower of the 

 palatal folds is developed, and in P. armifera the lower and upper 

 palatals and a suprapalatal, but no basal fold. 



With these preliminaries out of the way, .we may proceed to 

 discuss'certain American species requiring revision. 



PUPOIDES. 



Pupoides Pfr., Malak. Blatter I, p. 192, 1851, for B. nitidulus Pfr. and 



B. marginatus Say. 

 Leucochila Martens in Albers, Die Hel. 1860, p. 296, type Pupafallax 



= margi?iata Say. 

 LeucocMloides Pfr., Nomencl. Hel. Viv. p. 292, 1878, for 5. cmnopictus, 



etc. 

 Papa sp., Bulimus sp. and Cyclostoma sp. of Say and authors generally. 



A widely distributed genus of toothless Pupa? occurring in 

 equatorial Africa, southern Asia, Australia and both Americas, 

 most of the species closely resembling the one commonly known as 

 "Pupa fallax" — the real "Cyclostoma" marginata of Thomas 

 Say. 



Species'of the marginatus typQ occur in the United States and 

 West Indies, but in the Andean region of South America, northern 

 Mexico and the adjacent States, Arizona and Xew Mexico, a group 

 of somewhat dissimilar forms are found, represented by P. paredesii 

 Orb., limemis Phil., chordatus Pfr. and hordaeeus Gabb. 



The names of the leading United States species of Pupoides have 

 been involved in errors almost from the time of their description 

 to the present day; it is thus essential that we go to the original 

 descriptions for our nomenclature. 




586 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1900. 



Pupoides marginatus (Say). 



Cyclostoma marginata Say, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., II (1821), 



p. 172. 

 LeucocMla inarginata ^ay, Tryon, Amer. Jour, of Conch., Ill (1868), 



p. 30.5. 

 Pupa fallax Say of Gould, Binney and nearly all authors and collectors. 

 Pupa arizonensis Gabb, Amer. Journ. Conch., II, p. 331 (1866). 



The name Pupa marginata was used by Draparnaud in 1805, 

 and hence when Say's successors transferred his species from 

 Cyclostoma to Pupa they sought another and unprejudiced name, 

 in an unlucky day selecting that of "fallax Say," which has been 

 perpetuated and passed into general use everywhere. Say himself 

 used "P. margmata" in all his references to his species, carefully 

 distinguishing Pupa fallax from his viarginata. 



Pupa fallax was described in 1825 from a specimen sent to Say 

 by Dr. T. W. Harris, of Milton, Mass. In 1829, after Say had 

 cast his fortunes with the communist society at New Harmony, 

 Ind., he happened upon the shell again, and forgetting his former 

 descriplion, wrote another oj the same specimen under the name 

 ' ' Pupa ptldcida. ' ' 



Say was a masterly diagnostician, and it is interesting to see both 

 how similarly he expresses the characters in the two diagnoses and 

 how excellently he pictures the shell, which was really nothing 

 else than the common European Bullminus obscurus ^Nliill. ! 




1900.] 



NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



587 



The two descriptions are as follows: 



The Disseminator of Useful 

 Knou'ledge, II, No. 15, 

 p. 230, July 29, 1829. 



"Pupa. 



Joiim. A. N. S., Vol. V, p. 121, 

 1825. 



"Pupa. 



" P. fallax. Shell turreted, 

 pale horn colour; wrinkles rather 

 obtuse, hardly prominent : suture 

 rather deeply impressed: volu- 

 tioiu nearly seven, a little con- 

 vex: apex somewhat obtuse: 

 aperture unarmed, suboval, trun- 

 cated above by the penultimate 

 whorl, If^ss than J the whole 

 length of the shell: labium'' 

 nearly transverse, colour of the 

 exterior part of the shell: col- 

 umella reflected, rectilinear, 

 longitudinal, forming an obvi- 

 ous though a rounded angle 

 with the labrum and labium: 

 labrum hardly reflected : umbil- 

 icus narrow. 



" Length more than three- 

 tenths of an inch. 



" For this species I am in- 

 debted to Dr. T. W. Harris, 

 of Milton, Massachusetts. 



" It closely resembles P. 

 marginata Nob., but is much 

 larger, and the labrum is not 

 widely reflected; when viewed 

 in front it has a reflected appear- 

 ance, but the opposite view pre- 

 sents only a very limited excur- 

 vature. ' ' 



" P. placida. Shell dextral, 

 cylindric conic, pale yellowish 

 horn colour; apex whitish, ob- 

 tuse: whorls six & an half, 

 somewhat wrinkled : suture mod- 

 erately impressed : aperture un- 

 armed longitudinally oval, trun- 

 cate a little obliquely above by 

 the penultimate volution: colu- 

 mella so recurred' as almost to 

 conceal the umbilicus: labrum, 

 with exception of the superior 

 portion, appearing a little re- 

 curved when viewed in front, 

 but when viewed in profile this 

 recurvature is hardly percepti- 

 ble: umbilicus very narrow, 



' ' Length over three tenths of 

 an inch. 



" Inhabits Massachusetts. 



" For this shell I am indebted 

 to Dr. T. W. Harris, of Milton, 

 from whom I have received 

 many interesting species of our 

 more Dorthern regions. 



" At first view it might be 

 mistaken for the P. marginata 

 Nob., but it is quadruple the 

 size, and the labrum is not re- 

 flected and thickened." 



It follows from the foregoing that Pupa fallax and Pupa placida 

 Say become synonyms of BuHminus obscurus (Miill. ). Cyclostoma 

 marginata Say survives as Pupoides marginatus (Say) for our well- 

 known species. 



^ Error for lahrum. 



* Error for recurved. 




588 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900 



Pupoides hordaceus (Gabb). PI. XXII, fig. 11. 



Pui)a hordacea Gabb, Amer. Jour. Conch., II, p. 331, PL 21, fig. 7 (1866). 

 Pupa arizonensis Gabb, W. G. Binney, Land and Fresh-Water Sheila 



of North America, 1869, Part I, p. 240, fig. 416 ; and in subsequent 



works. Not P. arizonensis Gabb. 

 Pupa arizonensis W. G. Binney, Sterki, Nautilus, III, pp. 118, 119. 

 Pupa fjabbi Dall, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus.. Vol. XIX, 1896, p. 367. 

 BiHdaria hebes Ancey, Pilsbry, Classified Cat., p. 19 ; Nautilus, XI, p. 



117 (1898). Not of Ancey. 

 fPupa arizonensis var. saxirola Ckll., Zoe, Vol. II, 1891, p. 18. (Round 



Mt., Cusler Co., Colorado. ) Not P. s«x7co?a Lowe nor Moquin-Tandon. 

 Pupa c/abbi mexicanorum Ckll., Nautilus, X, p. 143. 

 Not Pupa liordeacea W. G. Binney ; not Bifidaria hordeacea Sterki or 



Pilsbry. 



The original description of this species is as follows: 



" Pupa hordacea Gabb. 



" Description. — Shell very small, cylindrical; apex obtuse; 

 whorls 6, convex; suture well impressed, smooth, thin, horn-color; 

 aperture small, rounded below, unarmed, lip narrowly reflected 

 and white; base urabilicate, the umbilicus bounded by an angle. 



" Dimensions. — Length .11, width .04 inch. 



* ' Locality. — With the preceding " [Fort Grant, at the junction 

 of the Arivapa and San Pedro rivers, Ariz. Collected by Dr. 

 G. H. Horn]. 



Gabb's figure is very small aud leaves much to be desired, but it 

 has the merit of agreeing with the diagnosis in being toothless. 

 His type lot was a mixture of several species. He did not even 

 take the trouble to separate out P. procera ; and consequently the 

 specimens he sent out misled conchologists who did not verify 

 them by the description. Mr. Binney figured aud described the 

 true hordacea as "arizonensis," aud the associated procera as 

 " hordeacea.'' Sterki detected the incongruity between arizonensis 

 of Gabb and arizonemis Binney, but did not recognize the iden- 

 tity of the latter with hordacea Gabb. Dall renamed Binuey's P. 

 arizonensis, calling it P. gabhi. In the Catalogue published by 

 Messrs. Johnson aud Pilsbry, the latter accepted Binuey's identifi- 

 cation of P. hebes Ancey with arizonensis W. G. B.,* and used 

 that name for the unfortunate species. 



So far we have only wandered deeper into the labyrinth, aud the 

 several geutlemen who have handled the matter certainly cauuot 

 by any hyperbole be called Ariadnes. We find the guiding thread 



* 3Ian. Amer. Land Shells, p. 173, footnote ; 2d Snppl. to Terr. AfoU., V, 

 p. 40. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 589 



in Gabb's original description and one of his original specimens 

 (PI. XXII, fig. 11). The true Pupa hordacea of Gubb is arizo- 

 nensis of Binney not Gabb, hebes of Pilsh-y not Ancey, gabbi of 

 Dull and mexicanorum of Cockerell. 



The systematic position of this species has not been correctly 

 defined hitherto. It has real afiinity to P. chordatus Pfr, , of 

 Lower California and Mazatlan, and P. paredesii Orb., of Ecua- 

 dor. It has been considered by some to be a toothless Bifidaria, 

 allied to corticaria, but the characters of the shell seem clearly 

 against this view. 



The degree of surface wrinkling or ribbing is somewhat vari- 

 able, but we have uot seen a smooth example, and do not doubt 

 that it is always irregularly ribbed. The specimen figured has oh 

 whorls, and measures, length 3.5, diam. 1.6, diam. of penult, 

 whorl 1.36 mm. It is the same shell figured by Binney as P. 

 arizoneiisl? and now deposited in the Binney and Bland collection 

 in the American Museum Natural History, Xew York city. 

 Some of the New Mexican specimens collected by Prof. Cockerell 

 are slightly larger and a little rougher. 



"We know nothing of the Colorado shells called P. arizonensis 

 var. saxicola by ISIr. Cockerell. 



PUPA. 



This gentis is well developed in Europe, Asia, Africa and 

 Australia, but is repi'esented in America by only six species, so far 

 as we now know. Five of these belong to the holarctic group of 

 P. miLSCorum, while one, P. sterkiana Pils., is strongly difl^eren- 

 tiated, and is the only member of the genus ranging south of the 

 United States. It belongs to the Lower Californian fauna. 

 Pupa hebes Ancey. PI. XXII, fl.gs. 9, 10. 



P. hebes Anc, Le Nataraliste, 1881, p. 389. Not P. hebes Pilsbry, Nau- 

 tilus, XI, p. 117. 



P. arizonensis W. G. Binney, 2d Supplement to Terr. Moll., V, p. 40, 

 PI. in, fig. 12. 



Shell rimate, cylindrical, bluntly rounded at the ends, thin, light 



chestnut colored, uot glossy, very slightly striate. Whorls 6^, 



the earlier 3 rapidly increasing, the rest of about equal width, 



quite convex, the last whorl ascending in front, its latter third 



somewhat compressed, the base showing a blunt projection when 



viewed in profile; a decided contraction behind the outer lip, but 




590 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



scarcely any crest. Aperture truucate-oval, slightly oblique, without 

 lamellse or folds, though there is a slight projection on the colu- 

 mella, far within. Peristome thin, narrowly expanded, not in the 

 least thickened within Length 3.5, diam. 1.8 mm. 



Near Jerome, Ariz. ; Page's ranch, Walnut Gulch and top of 

 Mt. Mingus (about 8,500 feet alt.) ; collected by Eev. E. H. Ash- 

 mun. White Pine, Nev., Ancey's type locality. 



Well distinguished from P. muscorum and P. hlandi by the 

 absence of a callus within the lip, as Mr. Ancey pointed out in his 

 original description. The original types are lost,'" but we have 

 no hesitation in identifying the shells found by Mr. Ashmun near 

 Jerome, Ariz., with Mr. Ancey's species, as they completely fill 

 the requirements of his diagnosis. The senior author of this 

 paper formerly identified liehes with P. arizonensis of W. G. 

 Binney, following a statement by the latter authority that the two 

 were identical." Attention to jNIr. Ancey's diagnosis should have 

 prevented such a rapprochement. 



BIFIDARIA.'= 



This group was founded by Dr. V. Sterki to contain certain 

 Pupse in which the parietal and supraparietal lamellie converge to 

 form a single bifid) or twisted lamella, or lie adjacent; there is a 

 single columellar lamella and, as a general rule, two palatal folds 

 and one basal. He included a large number of American species 

 and a few forms from Asia, hunana Gredl., strophostoma Mlldlf., 

 armigerellalcLeinh., recondita T.-C, etc. 



The most cursory acquaintance with Pupidce develops the fact 

 that there is a Avidespread and general similarity in the lamellaj 

 and folds, and in species of many groups, in Europe, South 

 Africa, Australia and America the development of the principal 

 plaits is not cons2:)icuously dissimilar. However, taking the entire 

 structure into consideration, there is no Pupa in Europe or South 



^° " Unfortunately I cannot forward to yoia a specimen of the typical lot of 

 ■mj Pupa hebes. The two typiial examples have been destroyed. The glass 

 tube containing them was broken when I removed from Bogbari. my former 

 residence, and I could find no trace of the shells. " Ancci/ 1» Utt. July IH, 1900. 



" Second Supplement to Terr. }[oU., V, p. 40, PI. Ill, fig. 12. "it is only 

 fair to say that Mr. Binuey did not have his nrizont nsis by him for actual 

 comparison, else the vmion would probably not have been made. 



^^ Bifidarla Sterki. in Tilshry, Proc. A. X. S., 1891, p. 31,=1 (for P. con- 

 trncta and P. servilis); Sterki, Nautilus, VI, pp. 4 (Mav, 1892) and 99 

 (Jan., 1893). 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 591 



Africa which could be referred to the P. hunana group of eastern 

 Asia or the P. armifera group of America. 



The distribution of Blfidaria outside of America is extensive. 

 In Japan {B. armigerella Reinh. ) and China (P. monas and atoma 

 Heude) the species are minute, and while referable to the typical 

 section of the genus, have affinities with Alhinula. In India we 

 have the type of a new section in P. plicidens Bens.," with a 

 typical Bifidaria exceedingly similar to P. hordeacella Pils., in 

 P. mimula Bens. This type extends to the islands of the Indian 

 Ocean near Madagascar, where Ave find in P. seignaciana C and 

 F. , of Nossi-Be, and iripiindwn Morel. , of Mayotte, forms very 

 close to mimula and hordeacella, w'hile P. lienardiana Cr. (Rod- 

 riguez Island), and exigua H. Ad.'^ (Mauritius), are so near the 

 Antillean P. servilis Gld. that one can hardly believe them difier- 

 ent. It is not impossible that these Indian- and insular species, 

 which so wonderfully mimic widespread West Indian forms, have 

 really been imported on plants or otherwise from the Antilles, as 

 some Stenogyroid species, Ennea bicolor, Vallonia, etc., have been 

 carried over the globe. No South African species referable to 

 Bifidaria have been found. 



In the East Indies Bifidaria is represented almost everywhere, 

 though not numerously so far as known. Von MollendorfF records 

 four species from the Philippines — artensis Montr. , pedlculus Shuttl. , 

 capillacea Dohrn and eunjomjihala Mlldff. 



Melanesia has the widely distributed P. pedicuhis (Shuttl.) and 

 in Australia there are numerous species of the type of P= j^ecZtCM- 

 lus. 



In Europe there are apparently no recent species, but P. flexl- 

 dens, obstructa and didymodus Al. Br., of the Main Basin (Lower 

 Miocene), and heterodus Bttg. (Middle Miocene) may perhaps be 

 referred here. The recent P. theeli Westerlund, of Siberia, from 

 the description seems to be a Bifidaria. 



It is worthy of note that it is only in America and eastern and 



^'Section Bensonella nov. Peristome continuous, calloused within ex- 

 cept near the posterior angle of the aperture ; parietal lamella? long, sepa- 

 rate, the angle lamella deeply entering, an infraparietal developed. Palatal 

 folds standing in a row within the labial callus, their number increased by 

 accessory folds. Texture and whitish color of Bifidaria. Type Pupa pli- 

 cidens Bens. 



^*This is not Pupa exigua Say, and if a valid species, which is doubtful, 

 the name must be changed. 




592 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



southern Asia that any great diversity of type occurs. The East 

 Indiaa, Polynesian and Australian species are all of a single rather 

 generalized type characterized by the imperfect union of the pari- 

 etal and angle lamellse. 



Hypselostoma is an allied genus, with dark-brown, opaque shell 

 and more produced " neck," though some Bifidarice, such as B. 

 perversa, parallel it in the latter respect. Genera are rather cheap 

 in Papidce, but on the whole Hypselostoma seems rather nearer to 

 Nesopupa and even Torquilla than to Bifidaria. As a subgenus 

 of Hypselostoma we would rank Boysidia,^^ in which the conic 

 epire, brown color of the shell-substance and continuous peristome, 

 as well as the dentition, agree. Both of these groups may have 

 the parietal and angle lameUse either independent or united. 

 We think it will be obvious to any one who will compare several 

 species of Boysidia, such as hunana Gredl., strop hostoma Mlldff., 

 moellendorffi Bttg., with a number of the less modified forms of 

 Hypselostoma, that the relationship is very close. Hyp. tublferum, 

 the type of the genus, is one of the most extreme modifications, 

 and not a fair criterion. 



Other Oriental Pupidoi, such as Boy-na Pfr., which may perhaps 

 be a modification of Pupisoma Stol., and Aulacospira ^Mlldfi., 

 while finding their place in this family, in all probability are not 

 at all closely allied to the forms under consideration. 



Regarding the status of the name Bifidaria, it should be men- 

 tioned that in 1881, Dr. O. Boettger proposed to transfer P. fallaz 

 Say from Leucoehila to Bulimitius, and retained the name Leuco- 

 chilus for the species allied to P. annijera Say, ^^ which would thus 

 replace Bifidaria. But as the type of Leucoehila had been ex- 

 pressly stated by Prof, von Martens to be Pupa fallax Say Tby 

 which marginatus Say was intended), such a restriction was unlaw- 

 ful; and as Boettger considered his group only a modification or 

 restriction of Leucoehila INIartens, I do not see that by changing 

 the gender of the name he rendered it any more acceptable. 



In America the Bifidaria group has been modified into several 

 subordinate groups, some of wide range and numerous species. 

 These groups may be tabulated thus : 



^^ Boysidia Arxcey, Le Naturnliste, May, -ISSl, p. 407 (for P. hunana and 

 P. dorsata). Oredleridla Mlldflf., Jahrb. d. d. Malak. Ges., XI, 1884, p. 179 

 (for Pupa hunana), is a sj-nonym. 



'•^ Von Martens' Conchologische Mitthcilungen, II, p. 64. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 593 



Key to American Sections of Bifidaria. 



a. — Parietal and angle lamellse independent, long; a columellar 

 lamella and palatal folds present. 

 h. — Palatal folds deeply immersed, hardly or not visible from 

 the aperture, the lower behind, rather than below, the 

 upper, the basal transverse; last whorl straightened and 

 free, the peristome continuous, . Immersidens P. and V. 

 b^. — Palatal folds normal in positon, not deeply immersed, visi- 

 ble from in front ; last whorl normal in shape, not built 



forward nor free, Sterkia Pils. 



a'. — Parietal and angle lamellre very short, small and tuberculiform ; 

 no palatal folds; shell cylindrical, . . Privatula Sterki. 

 a^ — Parietal and angle lamellae elongate, more or less united, either 

 by a callous ridge or so extensively as to appear like a 

 single sinuous or emarginate lamella.' 

 b. — Aperture not much contracted by the teeth. Shell cyhn- 

 dric or cylindi'o-conic, rather narrow ; parietal and colu- 

 mellar lamelhe moderate or small, the latter a simple en- 

 tering lamella; palatal folds 3 (sometimes fewer), not 

 situated upon a callous ridge, . , . Bifidaria s. str. 

 b^. — -Throat nearly closed by the teeth. Shell oblong or conic, 

 rather wide; parietal and columellar lamellre long and 

 tortuous, the latter more or less vertical ; palatal folds 

 several, situated on a ridge, , . . ^i/^mu/a Sterki. 

 a*. — Parietal lamella simple; no angle lamella; palatals norma) or 

 increased by accessory denticles, often standing upon a 

 callous ridge, Vertigojy-sis Ckll. 



Bifidaria dalliana Sterki. PI. XXn, fl- 8. 



B. dalliana Sterki, jSTautilus, XII, p. 91, Dec, 1898. 



Nogales (type locality), Santa Rita Mts. , and Tempe, Ariz., 

 also Mexican side of hue near Nogales, Ariz. 



A very small species, length 1.6 to 1.8 mm., differing from B. 

 hordeacella chiefly in the much less united angle and parietal 

 lameljje, the transverse position of the basal fold, and the more 

 deeply immersed lower palatal. 



B. pilsbnjana is an equally small s[)ecies, with a simple parietal 

 amella and three subparallel palatal folds, the lower palatal not 

 immersed. It stands between the typical Bifidarias and Verti- 




594 PJROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



ffopsis, but on account of the absence of an angle lamella we are 

 disposed to rank it with B. 2ientodon, in Vertigopsls. 



Bifidaria hordeacella (Pilsbry). PI. XXII, fig. 3. 



Pupa hordeacella Pils., Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1890, p. 44, PI. 1, fig. 



g to k. 

 Pupa hordeacella Binney, Fourth Suppl. to Terr. Moll., V, p. 193, PI. 



2, fig. 2. 

 Pupa hordeacella Ball, Proc. U. S. Nat. I\Ius., XIX, 1896, p. 367. 

 Pupa hordeacella Sterki, Nautilus. IV, p. 141 ; VI, p. 4. 

 Pupa Jiordeacella Ckll., Nautilus, X, pp. 42, 43. 

 Bifidaria Jiordeacella Pils., Nautilus, XI, p. 117 ; Classified Cat., p. 19. 



Kanges from Cape May, N. J., and St. Simon's Island, Ga., to 

 the St. John's river valley and Sarasota Bay, Fla., west to Indian 

 Territory (Fort Gibson) and southern Texas, and New Mexico. 

 We have not seen it from the Antilles. 



The small size (length 2.1, diara. .8 mm.) and slender con- 

 tour, nearly simple or slightly emarginate parietal lamella and 

 thin outer lip distinguish it from B. rupicola and procera. In 

 Texas and the West it is light brown, but in Florida is often 

 thinner and corneous. Almost always associated with B. rupicola 

 in the eastern Gulf States, and Avith B. pjvocera in the West, but 

 readily separated from either by size alone. 



Bifidaria hordeacella parvidens (Sterki). PI. XXII, fig. 2. 



P. hordeacella parvidens Sterki, Nautilus, XII, p. 128 ; XIII, p. 16. 



Mescal Gulch, near Jerome, and Jerome, Ariz. 



Easily distinguished by the very small size or obsolescence of 

 the upper palatal and basal folds. 



Bifidaria procera (Gould), ri. XXU, figs. 6, 7. 



Pupa procera GUI., Bost. Journ. N. H., Ill, 401, PI. 3, fig. 12 (1840); 



IV, p. 359, PI. IG, fig. 12. 

 Pupa pi'ocera Gld. Sterki, Nautilus, IV, p. 140; VI, p. 4. 

 Pupa procera Gld., Ckll., Nautilus, X, p. 43. 



Bifidaria procera GUI., I'ilsbrj, Nautilus, XI, p. 117 ; Class. Cat., p. 19. 

 Pupa carinata Gld., olim, au abnormal shell. 

 Pupa gihbos<( Say, Kiister, and P. minuta Say, Pfr. Not of Say. 

 Pupa rupicola Say, W. G. Biuney, Land and Fresh-Water Shells of N. A., 



I, p. 243, figs. 423, 424 ; Man. Amer. Laud Sh., p. 328, fig. 354. Not 



of Say. 

 PujM jiellucida Pfr., Strebel, Beitr. Mex., Theil IV, p. 91, PI. 4, fig. 



12 ; PI. 15, fig. 10. 

 Pujm, hordeacea Gabb, W. G. Binnev, L. and F.-W. Sh., I. p. 241, fig. 



417; Man. Amer. L. Sh., p. 173, fig. 165 (bad). Not i'. hordarea 



Gabb! 



The large size, subcyhndrical form, distinctly bifid pai-ietal 

 lamella and deeply situated lower palatal fold separate this 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 595 



species from rupieola aud hordeacella. It ranges from Baltimore, 

 Md., to South Carolina, west to Kansas, and southwest to Arizona 

 and Mexico. We have seen no specimens from Florida. 



Binney's description and figure of "P. hordeacea" are surpris- 

 ingly inaccurate, and contradict each other. There is no species 

 known in America which agrees even approximately with either. 

 They were doubtless made from a specimen sent by Gabb, who had 

 jirocera mixed with his honlacea ; but it is safe to say that they 

 inaccurately represent the shell. 



Bifidaria procera cristata P. and v., n. var. PI. XXII. figs. 4, 5. 



P'.qya and Bifidaria Jiordeacea Gabb, Sterki, Nautilus, IV, p. 141; VI, 

 p. 4, 102 ; X, p. 42, 43. Pilsbry, Nautilus, XI, p. 117. Not P. hor- 

 dacea Galob. 



Angle and parietal lamellse more completely united than in B. 

 procera, hardly bifid ; crest behind the outer lip very strong. 

 Average size slightly greater. 



Length 2.8, diam. 1.2 mm. 



Types No. 78,694, coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., from Camp 

 Verde, Ariz., collected by Rev. E. H. Ashmun. 



This Southwestern form is readily distinguishable fi'om B. j)to- 

 cera by the above characters. It ranges eastward to central Texas. 

 Bifidaria rupieola (Say). PL XXII, fig. l. 



Originally described from Fort Picolato on the St. John's river, 

 not far from St. Augustine, Fla., this species is before us from 

 South Carolina and St. Simon's Island, Ga., southward to Miami, 

 Fla., and west to New Orleans, La. It is abundant along the 

 St. John's river, has not yet turned up in the Texas literal, but 

 occurs in Cuba and Bermuda. 



Compared with B. procera, this species tapers much more, a 

 point Say laid stress upon. The outer and basal margins of the 

 lip are broad, flatly spreading and thickened within, but at the 

 posterior or upper curve of the outer lip it abruptly becomes nar- 

 rower. The parietal lamella is moderately emarginate, and the 

 lower palatal fold is less immersed than in procei^i. There is a 

 very narrow but distinct crest close behind the peristome. The 

 color is subtransparent whitish-corneous or brownish-corneous. 

 Length about 2.4, diam. 1.1 mm. It is larger and more tapering 

 than B. hordeacella, which has not the spreading, calloused lip of 

 B. rupieola. 




696 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Cf. also Sterki, Nautilus, IV, 139, where the characters are 

 well indicated. 



In addition to the preceding species, another form, insuflBciently 

 defined, calls for notice, B. riograndensis Sterki. In the Nauti- 

 lus, IV, p. 142, Dr. Sterki gives descriptive notes on a form from 



Hidalgo, Tex., under the head " Pupa " It is stated to 



resemble P. servilis Gld., except in having an infraparietal lamella 

 and ■ a very long lower palatal fold. In Nautilus, VI, p. 4, he 

 lists a " P. riograndensis Sterki MSS." from the same locality, 

 without description or reference to his previous note. Of course 

 there is no necessary connection between the nameless Pupa with 

 a description and the later nude name ; but we have little doubt 

 that the two are identical, though Dr. Sterki in introducing a new 

 name into the list has left others to guess at what it may be. 



We have not seen specimens, and in the eight years since the 

 name riograndensis was published it has not been made good by a 

 description. If our theory regarding its identity be correct, it 

 may be known by the infraparietal lamella, which is present in no 

 other known Bifidaria of the United States fauna. 



VERTIGO. 



This genus was established in 1774 for the single species V. 



pxisilla, of central Europe. Some authors have proposed to unite 



Vertigo and Pupa in one genus, bearing the latter name;" but the 



fact that Vertigo is the prior name seems to have escaped these 



gentlemen. Pupa was not establislied until 1802. 



Vertigo seems to be neither more nor less distinct than Bifidaria, 

 Torquilla, Fauxulus, Hgpxelostoma and other Pupoid groups now 

 ranked as genera; and while we freely admit that the ditferences 

 between these groups are not great, it is obvious that if all be 

 united into one genus, that must be called Vertigo. The recogni- 

 tion of several genera among the Pup:v seems to us to be a wiser 

 course, as otherwise the relationships of the forms would be lost 

 sight of in so vast and composite a genus. 



Vertigo has a wide range in the three northern coutiutnts, but 

 apparently does not occur below the equator. The Americiin 

 forms have been studied by Dr. V. Sterki, who has cleared up a 



" Even by Prof, von Martens, in the Biol. Amer. Centrali, 189;?, this 

 course has been taken. 




1900.] XATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 597 



number of doubtful points and defined numerous species hitherto 

 unknown in the fauna. There yet remain some whoJly undefined 

 names in the literature, which have been awaiting characterization 

 for many years; others, while known by brief diagnoses, call for 

 fuller exposition, while a species defined by Thomas Say seventy- 

 six years ago is now for the first time recognized as valid, and 

 restored to its usurped place. 



In America there are several outlying species for wliich sectional 

 divisions of Veiiigo have been established — Neardala, Haplopupa, 

 Bothriopupa and Angii-stula. The last group was established for 

 V. milium and V. venetzii, the latter a European species, and (under 

 the synonymous name, V. plicata) one of the two types of Vertilla 

 Moquin-Tandon. V. pmilla Miill. was the other species of Ver- 

 tilla, and as it had been made the sole type of Vertigo by Miiller, it 

 must be removed from Moquin-Tandon' s gronp, leaving T". plicata 

 (^ venetzii = angiistior) the type of Vertilla. Or, to tabulate 

 the matter: 



C pnsilla = Tjpe of Vei-tirjo Miiller, 1774. 



^ Types oi Angnstula Sterki, 1889. 

 milium ) 



It would seem from this that VeHilla must replace Angxistula as 

 a subgeneric name for T'^ milium and venetzii, the latter species 

 being the type. Several well-known experts in nomenclature to 

 whom we have submitted the case agree in this opinion. It is 

 rather a pity, because Moquin-Tandon had no idea of the really 

 peculiar characters of V. venetzii, which were first exposed by Dr. 

 Sterki. 



The Group of Vertigo modesta. — The Yertigos of the calif arnica 

 and modesta groups agree in lacking a basal fold, or tooth near the 

 base of the columella. The parietal and columellar lamella? and 

 lower and upper palatal folds are developed and nearly equidistant, 

 giving a somewhat cruciform outhne to the aperture. Sometimes 

 the angle lamella appears, but never any others ; and in a few forms 

 several of the teeth become reduced or lost. The outer lip is not 

 very noticeably caught in at its upper third to form a " sinulus," 

 as it is in most species of Vertigo. These features give a particu- 

 lar aspect to the group which Dr. Y. Sterki has recognized in tax- 

 onomy by the name "Xearctula." This distinction, however, is 

 39 



Types of Vertilla Moq., 1S55 \ 



( venetzii 




598 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



more apparent tnau real, the species of the modesta group really 

 being exceedingly close to such forms as T" gouldii, and in fact T'. 

 Columbiana is hardly separable specifically. For this reason, we 

 think Nearctula must be restricted to the single species V. calif or- 

 niea, characterized by its ribbed, opaque shell, and the other spe- 

 cies associated therewith by Dr. Sterki will group better among the 

 true Vertigos. 



The group of Vertigo modeda includes species with a crest vary- 

 ing from very loiv to strong, behind the lip ; in this respect differing 

 from the group of V. californica, the species of which have no 

 crest, and are rather less glossy. 



The American species are Canadian or boreal, extending south- 

 ward in the Rocky Mountain region. Their number has been 

 estimated at as many as eight species and three varieties (Sterki, 

 1892); but this seems to us to be too generous. We are able to 

 distinguish four species, and several varieties may conveniently be 

 recognized, though their determination is at times difficult from the 

 intergradation with parent stocks. We omit from the account P. 

 hoppii MoUer, a Greenland species not shown lo occur on the main- 

 land of North America (conf. Xaidilas, XII, 104), and P. bore- 

 alis Morelet, described from Kamchatka, and not known to us 

 from America, the Alaskan Pupie of this type being referable to 

 V. modesta Say, so far as we have seen.^* 



The forms of the V. modesta type make a beautiful variation- 

 chain, or " i^9rme?^-/;e<<g," as recent German authors terra these 

 series of species connected by intermediate variations in the living 

 fauna. The relationships of the forms may be expressed diagram- 

 matically, dashes representing breaks in the chain ; figures referring 

 t3 Plate XXIII : 



castanea, fig. 5. 



castanea, fig. 4. 

 modesta, fig. 3 — modesta, fig. 6. corpulenta, fig. 7. 



modesta p(trietalis, fig. 2. 



parietalis, fig. 1. 



concinnula, fig. 8. 



arizonensis, fig. 9 — uiaJicnsis. fig. 10 — cobimbiana, 



[fig. 11. 



The group not separated by dashes is shown by our scries to be 



^*We have not seen Kanichatkan P. borcalis, but it is evidently Tcry near 

 V. modesta, perhaps ouly a form of that species. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 599 



completely connected by intermediate sj^ecimens. This is not suffi- 

 ciently shown in the plate because, in order to emiDhasize the char- 

 acteristics of geographic races, we have selected the most strongly 

 differentiated individuals for figuring. In view of the fact that 

 the Rocky Mountain region is most imperfectly explored for small 

 snails, we hold the opinion that still more connecting links will be 

 found, and probably V. concinnula will become a subspecies of 

 modesta. It is not impossible that V. dalliana will fall into line 

 as a terminal member of the series, beyond castanea, in which all 

 teeth have been lost. 



Variation among individuals from one place, as well as geograjyhic 

 racial differentiation, is ubiquitous among these pygmy snails, though 

 less striking to the eye than in larger forms, or those in which 

 color or sculpture is more modified. The development of the 

 teeth is greatest in the mountain forms, concinnula (PI. XXIII, fig. 

 8) and arizonensis (PI. XXIII, fig. 9), occurring at high altitudes; 

 while modesta (fig. 3) and castanea (figs. 4, 5) are at least mainly 

 from much lower levels. The form of modesta from the Iowa loess 

 is also more or less deficient in teeth. But we do not think to cor- 

 relate Ihis chaiacter of the shells with mere elevation, for it is more 

 likely to be a reaction due to some unknown element of the faunal 

 environment, such as minute snail-eating insects. 



Vertigo concinnula Cockerell. Plate XXIII, fig. 8. 



Vertigo calif ornica Ingersoll, Bull. U.S. Geol. Sun'. Terr., I, p. 128 



(1875). No description. NotofEowell. 

 Vertigo i)igersoUi Ancey MSS. in Cockerell, J. of Conch., Leeds, VI, 



1889, p. 64 (name only, substituted for P. calif ornicK Ing. non Eow.) ; 



British Naturalist, 1891, p. 100 (not seen) ; Sterki, Nautilus, VI, 1892, 



p. 5, with varieties haydexi Anc. and accedens Anc. (names only); 



Cockerell, Nautilus, X, 1897, p. 135 (identity with concinnula a^rmQA 



from part of original lot). 

 Vertigo concinnula Cockerel], Nautilus, X, 1897, p. 135. 

 Pupa concinnula Ckll., Pilshry, Nautilus, XI, 1898. p. 119 ; Class. Cat. 



L. Sh. Amer., p. 21 ; Nautilus, XII, 1899, p. 103. 



Shell ovoid-cylindrical in outline, slightly tapering toward the 

 blunt apex; solid and somewhat opaque, so that the folds of the 

 outer lip are usually only dimly seen through from the outside. 

 Surface shining, irregularly, obliquely striate. Whorls 5, apical 

 2 whitish, the rest chestnut-brown, often with numerous iri-egu- 

 larly scattered spots and flecks of very light buff. Whorls quite 

 convex, the last slightly ascending toward the aperture, its latter 

 half very decidedly flattened on the outer-inferior portion, this 




600 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



part bearing a low broad wavelike " crest" or ridge behind the 

 lip, and then slightly constricted. Umbilical rimation short, im- 

 perforate. Aperture rounded, truncate above; peristome a little 

 expanded; parietal wall bearing a rather strong entering lamella 

 in the middle, and usually a smaller angle lamella to the right of 

 its outer end; columella with a strong deep-seated entering lamella ; 

 outer lip with two rather low long palatal folds, the lower one 

 longest. Alt. .2, diam. 1.1 mm. 



The dull, rather opaque shell, cylindrical and small, with long 

 palatal folds and parietal lamella, separate this from V. modesta 

 and its varieties, but it certainly approaches V. modesta parietalU, 

 which, however, is larger and smoother. The form of modesta 

 from Labrador agrees with concinnula in having the penultimate 

 whorl distinctly striate. The larger size, more cylindrical shape 

 and presence of an angle lamella distinguish it from typical colora- 

 demis. According to Cockerell, it occurs at higher elevations 

 Ihan V. coloradeiisis, between 6,000 and 10,000 feet. 



Custer and Summit counties, Colo. (Ckll. ); Jemez Mts., X. M. 

 (Ashmun). Numerous other localities in Colorado are given by 

 Ingersoll. 



' The specimens from the Jemez Mts. have a much stronger crest 

 behind the lip than those from Colorado, and are less opaque. 



Vertigo modesta (Say). Plate XXIII, figs. 2, 3, 6. 



Pupa modesta Say, Long's Second Expedition, II. appendix, p. •-'59, PI. 



15, fig. 5 (1824). 

 Pupa decora Gld., Proc. Bost. Soc. N. H., II, p. 263 (1848). Fig. in text. 



More cjdindrical than ]'. corpulenta, with one whorl more ; 

 crest moderate or low; teeth typically four, parietal, columellar. 

 upper and lower palatal ; but sometimes a fifth, the angle lamella, 

 is added. 



Fig. 3 is drawn from a specimen from Laggan, Alberta, col- 

 lected by Rev. George W Taylor. Length 2.5, diam. 1.3 mm.; 

 whorls 5^. 



Fig. 2, Dyea Valley, Alaska, collected by :\Ir. V. B. Randolph. 

 Length 2.4, diam. 1.3 mm. The form is a little stouter than 

 typical, and the crest perceptibly stronger. In some specimens the 

 teeth are slightly better developed than in typical modesta, and 

 some have a second parietal lamella. This lot is perfectly inter- 

 mediate between modesta and parietalis. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 601 



A Labradoi' specimen (PI. XXIII, fig. 6) is smaller, length 1.9, 

 diam. 1.2 mm., about the size of cpncinnula Ckll., typical in 

 teeth, but closely and deeply striate on the penultimate whorl. 

 The crest is slighter than in typical modesta. 



The type locality of V. modesta, Northwest Territory, was some- 

 where in northern Minnesota, southern Manitoba, or near the 

 western end of Lake Superior, on the route of Major Long's 

 second expedition (see map in volume cited above). P. decora 

 was also described from Lake Superior. From this region the 

 species ranges to Labrador, to the Rocky Mountains and north- 

 ward to Alaska It also occurs in the loess deposit at Iowa City, 

 la. ; many of these specimens having the upper palatal fold sub- 

 obsolete or wanting, as in the variety castanea. 



P. modesta has been erroneously placed in the synonomy of 

 Vertigo ovata hitherto, but reference to the original description 

 shows it to be identical with decora. Say's description is as follows : 



"P. modesta. Shell dextral, suboval, minutely wrinkled; apex 

 obtuse; ivhorlssix; umbilicus distinct; aj^eriure obliquely subovate ; 

 labium with a prominent compressed semioval tooth equidistant 

 from the extremities of the labrum, and a somewhat conic one 

 rather below the middle of the columella; labrum not reflected, 

 joining the preceding whorl at its upper extremity with a curve ; 

 bidentate, lower tooth placed opposite to that of the middle of the 

 labium, the other smaller and placed a little above. Length less 

 than one-tenth of an inch. Inhabits the Northwest Territory." 

 v. modesta parietalis (Ancey), n. v. Plate XXIII, fig. l. 



Shape somewhat more obese than V. modesta ; whoi'ls about 5 ; 

 teeth 5, the angle lamella being developed. This form is interme- 

 diate between modesta and corpulenta in contour and size. It may 

 be a case of dimorphism rather than a true variety, as it occurs in 

 some places with 4-toothed shells, and with the fifth lamella in 

 various stages of development in apparent adults, as in the Dyea 

 Valley. The figured specimen is from Ogden Caiion, Utah, 

 collected by Hemphill, with corpulenta. 



V. modesta corpulenta (Morse). Plate XXIII, fig. 7. 



Isthmia corpulenta Morse, Aim. Lye. Nat. Hist, of N. Y., YIII, p. 210, 

 fig. 7 (1865). 



Typically much shorter than modesta, more obese, with only 



about Ah whorls. Teeth 4, short. Type locality, Little Valley, 




602 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1900, 



Washoe county, Nev. It occurs also in Utah, the figured speci- 

 men being from Ogden Canon. The lower palatal fold is decidedly 

 tubercular, at least in typical corpulenta, and the surface is 

 smooth. Length 2.1, diam. 1.3 mm. 



Vertigo modesta castanea (Sterki), n. v. Plate XXIII, figs. 4, 5. 



V. castanea Sterki, Nautilus, VI, 1892, p. 5. 



P. castanea Sterki, Pilsbry, Nautilus, XI, 1898, p. 119 ; Class. Cat. 

 Land Shells Amer., p. 21. 



Shell oblong or cylindric-oval, glossy, somewhat translucent; 

 chestnut, sometimes with some whitish stripes. "Whorls 4^5, the 

 last with a moderate crest behind the lip. Teeth very small, placed 

 as in corpulenta, the lower jialatal largest, columellar usually devel- 

 oped, parietal very small or obsolete, upper palatal wanting or 

 minute. Alt. 2.3, diam. 1.4 mm. 



Fish Camp, Fresno county. Cal. (Hemphill). Lake county, 

 Cal. (Sterki). 



This stands toward V. modesta as var. diegoensis toward V. 

 callfornica. Both are subterminal members of series running from 

 toothed forms toward a toothless condition. The specimens de- 

 scribed and figured are from the locality first mentioned above. In 

 the series before us, this interirrailes directly with modesta. The 

 specimens vary greatly in development of the teeth. 



Vertigo columbiana Sterki MSS., n. sp. PI. XXIII, lig. 11. 



V. columbiana Sterki, Nautilus, VI, 1892, p. 5 (name only). 



Pupa columbiana Sterki, Pilsbry, Nautilu.s, XI, 1898, p. 119 ; Class. 



Cat., p. 21, No. 212 ; Nautilu*, XII, p. 103. 

 V. columbiana var. utahensis Sterki, Nautilus, VI, 5 (name only). 



Shell very minute, cylindric-oval, perforate, thin, pale corneous- 

 brown, somewhat transparent, glossy and weakly striatulate. 

 Whorls nearly 5, convex, the last expanded in a low crest very 

 close to the lip, not noticeably constricted in front of the crest. 

 Aperture truncate-ovai, 4-toothed, the peristome thin, hardly 

 expanded; parietal lamella short and high, columellar a little 

 smaller, lower palatal a short conic f<ild continued inward; upper 

 palatal smaller, shorter, almost tuberculiform; all the teeth white 

 and the palatals showing through the outside wall. Alt. 1.9, 

 diam. 1.1 mm. 



Vancouver Island (George W. Taylor) ; Olympia, Tacoma and 

 Seattle, Wash. (Henry Hemphill) ; Douglas county, Ore. (F. 

 H. Andrus).] 




1900.] >rATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 003 



Types of above description and figure are Nos. 60,468 and 

 68,881, coll. A. N. S., from Vancouver Island. 



An exceedingly small species with four well-developed teeth. 

 The palatal folds are rather shorter than in V. coloradensis or V. 

 concinnula, both of which are, moreover, more striate and less 

 transparent. The specimens from Vancouver Island, Washington 

 and Oregon are quite uniform in all respects. The above refer- 

 ences to literature refer to the name in lists, as there has been no 

 definition of the species. 



V. Columbiana stands perilously near forms of V. gouldii with- 

 out the basal fold. It may be merely an occidental subspecies of 

 gouldii; but in a considerable series examined, there never seems 

 to be a trace of the basal fold. It is this which induces us to give 

 the form specific standing. 

 Vertigo columbiana utahensis Sterki MS., n. var. Plate XXIII, fig. 10. 



Smaller, length 1.8, diam. 1 mm., and quite distindly striate. 

 Aperture about as in columbiana, but a little shorter. 



Box Elder Caiion, Utah, elevation 4500 feet (Henry Hemphill). 



Vertigo coloradensis (Cockerell). 



Pupa coloradensis Ckll., Jonrn. of Conch., Leed'*, VI, 1889, p. 63 



(name only); British Naturalist, 1891, p. 100 ;^' and in Binney, Fourth 



Supplement to Terr. Moll., V, Bull. xM. C. T., XXII, Xo. 4, p. 191 



(January), 1892. 

 Vertigo coloradensis Ckll., Sterki, Nautilus, VI, 1892, p. 5. Cockerell, 



Nautilus, X, 1897, p. 134. 

 Papa coloradensis Ckll., Pilsbry, Nautilus, XI, 1898, p. 119 ; Classified 



Cat. L. Sh. Amer., p. 21. 



" Shell brown, shiny, thiunish, translucent enough to show 

 teeth through (body whorl) from outside, striate, 

 especially on penultimate whorl. Outline oblong- 

 oval, barrel-shaped, apex blunt. "Whorls four. 

 Aperture pyriform. Peristome brown, thick, con- 

 tinuous by a well-marked callus on parietal wall. 

 Outer lip not constricted ; a crest is indicated behind 

 peristome, but not Avell developed. The teeth 

 within the aperture are brown, one long one on 



parietal wall, one on columellar, and two, the lower 



. Fif 2 



one largest, on outer wall. Length li, diam. 1 mm. °' 



" Near Swift creek, Custer Co., Colo. (T. D. A. Cockerell). 



'' We have not seen Prof. Cockerell's paper in this journal, and do not 

 know whether the species Wiis described, or merely mentioned there. 




604 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



" This shell is nearest allied to corpulenta, but is decidedly 

 smaller, more striate, and slightly narrower, I have never ob- 

 served a second parietal tooth in coloradensis." 



The above description, somewhat amplified from that published in 

 Binney's Fourth Supplement, was received from Prof. Cockerell, 

 and the figure was drawn by him. It seems to us more nearly 

 related to concinnula than to corpulenta, on account of the long 

 palatal folds; but the very small size distinguishes it, if constant. 

 Only two or three specimens were taken, the type being in the 

 British Museum. 



v. coloradensis basidens n. var. 



Similar to V. c. arizonemk P. & V., but the parietal lamella 

 stands alone upon the parietal wall, and a small basal tubercle is 

 developed. The last character separates basidens from typical 

 coloradensis. 



Bland, New Mexico (Rev. E. H. Ashman), with V. c. arizo- 

 nensis and V. concinnula. 



Vertigo coloradensis arizonensis n. var. Plate XXIII. fig. 9. 



Shell cylindric-oval, rimate, very small; very densely and 

 sharply but most minutely striate; light brown. Whorls 4|, con- 

 vex, the last tapering below, the later half whorl narrow as though 

 pinched at base, flattened over the position of the palatal fold.s, 

 then rising in a low, hardly noticeable crest, obsolete except near 

 the base. Aperture irregularly truncate-oval, the peristome well 

 expanded, brown. Denticles 5 or 6, the parietal high and strong, 

 a minute angle lamella usually standing near its outer end. Co- 

 lumellar lamella obliquely enterinor. Upper and lower lialatal 

 folds very long, rising conical ly in the middle, distinctly showing 

 through from the outside, the lower fold being a little stronger 

 and more immersed, its position marked by a depression outside. 



Length 1.8, diam. .9 mm. 



Top of Mt. Mingus, near Jerome, Ariz., about 8,500 feet eleva- 

 tion (E. PI. Ashmun). 



This pygniy form differs from T'. columblaua in being smaller, 

 duller, more slender and with much longer palatal folds, which 

 show their length well from the outside where they show through 

 the outer wall. It is more slender and rather less coarsely striate 

 than V. Columbiana utaheiisis, besides differing in its long palatals. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 605 



V. coneinnula differs chiefly in being very much larger, and Y. 

 coloradensis has only a single lamella on the parietal wall, and 

 seems less cylindric. 



Catalogue of Species axd Subspecies of the Uxited 



States. 



Geuus PTJPOIDES Pfeiffer, 1855. 

 {Leucocheila Martens, 1S60, of former lists.) 



Group of p. marginahts. 



Pupoides marginatus (Say). 



Canada to Florida, west to Arizona. 



This is Pupafallax of authors, not of Say. See notes. 



Pupoides modicns (Gld.). 



Georgia sea islands and Florida, west to Alabama. 



Group of P. chordatus. 

 Pupoides hordaceus (Gabb). 

 Arizona and New Mexico. 



Genus PUPA Drap., 1801. 



Group of P. mnscorum. 

 Pupa hebes Ancey. 



White Pine, Nev. (Xewcomb ) ; around Jerome, Ariz. 

 (Ashmun). 

 Pupa muscorum (L.). 



Canada and Northern States, southward in the Rocky ^Mountain 

 region. Typical muscorum is toothless. Form unidentata C. Pfr. , 

 parietal tooth developed. Occurs with preceding. P. badia C. 

 B. Ad. is a synonym. Form bigranata Rossm., a small, low lower 

 palatal nodule also present. Occurs with preceding. Fig. of 

 muscorum in Binney's works belongs to this last variety. 

 Pupa blandi Morse. 



Rocky Mountain region. Form obtusa Ckll., Colorado. 



Pupa blandi sublubrica Ancey. 



Nevada. 

 Pupa sonorana Sterki. 



New Mexico. 




606 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Pupa sonorana tenella Sterki. 



Capitan Mountains, New Mexico. 

 Pupa syngenes Pilsbry. 



New Mexico, Arizona, Montana. 



Form dextroversaV. and V. (n. f. ) isdextral, Avith 8^9 whorls. 

 San Rafael, N. M., collected by Rev. E. H. Ashmun. 



Eighty-seven per cent, of the specimens taken at this locality 

 were of the dextral form. 



Group of P. sterliana. 

 Pupa sterkiana Pilsbry. 



San Diego county, Cal. ; San Ramon, Lower Cal. 



Genus BIFIDARIA Sterki, 1891. 

 Section IMMERSIDENS Pils. and Van., 1900. 

 Bifidaria ashmuni Sterki. 



Arizona, Jerome ; Santa Rita Mountains. 



A form minor Sterki {Nautilus, XII, 92), Nogales, Ariz., is 

 smaller, thinner, with narrower lip and 1 to i whorl less. 

 Bifidaria perversa Sterki. 

 Nogales, Ariz. 



Section STERKIA Tilsbry, 1898. 

 Bifidaria rhoadsi Pilsbry. 



]\Iiami, Fla. 

 Bifidaria calamitosa (I'ilsbry). 



San Diego, Cal., to San Tomas river. Lower Cal. 

 Bifidaria hemphilli (Sterki). 



Same range. 

 Bifidaria Clementina (Sterki). 



San Clemente Island. 



Section PRIVATULA Sterki, 189:]. 

 Bifidaria corticaria (Say). 



Canada and oMiunesota south to South Carolina and ^lississippi. 



Section BIFIDARIA s. str. 

 ( Eubifidaria Sterki, 1893. ) 

 Bifidaria dalliana Sterki. 

 Arizona. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 607 



Bifidaria hordeacella (Pilsbry) 



Cape May, N. J., Georgia sea islands and Florida, west to 

 Indian Territory and Arizona. 



Bifidaria hordeacella parvidens Sterki. 

 Arizona. 



Bifidaria rupicola (Say). 



South Carolina and Florida, west to New Orleans, La., also 

 Cuba, Bermuda. 



Bifidaria procera (Gld.). 



Maryland and South Carolina, west to Arizona and Mexico. 



Bifidaria procera cristata Pils. and Van. 



Arizona, New Mexico, Indian Territory and Texas. 



Bifidaria quadridens Sterki. 



Capitan Mountains, New Mexico. 



Section ALBINULA Sterki, 1892. 



Bifidaria contracta (Say). 



Canada, United States and Mexico, east of Rocky Mountains. 



Bifidaria armifera (Say). 



Quebec and Maine to Minnesota, south to New Mexico and 

 Florida. A var. ruidosensis Ckll. has been described from New 

 Mexico. 



Bifidaria holzingeri (Sterki). 



Minnesota to Kansas and Illinois. A var. fordiana Sterki has 

 been described from Wichita, Kan. 



Subgenus Vertigopsis 'Ckll.'. Sterki. 



Nautilus, VI, p. 4, 101. Type Pupa curvidens Gld. 



'■^ Palatal folds two or three, in the typical positions; no palatal 

 callous rib. 



Bifidaria cincinnatiensis (Judge). 

 Cincinnati, O. 



Bifidaria pilsbrytoa (Sterki). 



Arizona and New Mexico. 



** Palatal folds tuberculiform, their number increased by some 

 accessory denticles, and standing upon a callous rib. 




608 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900, 



Bifidaria pentodon (Say). 



Quebec to Alberta, south to Nevada, Texas and Florida; Sterki 

 mentions a form curta from Ohio. P. montanella Ckll. , unde- 

 scribed, is a synonym. 

 Bifidaria curvidens (Old.). 



Quebec to Minnesota and southward. 



Sterki distinguishes a form gracilis from Rhode Island, Ohio, 

 Tennessee. 

 Bifidaria curvidens floridana (Dall). 



Archer, Alachua county, Fla. 



Genus VERTIGO Mailer. 

 Section VERTIGO. 

 Vertigo rugosula Sterki. 



South Carolina, Gulf coast to Texas. 

 Vertigo rugosula ovalis Sterki (ovulum Sterki, preoc.). 



Volusia county, Fla. 

 Vertigo ovata Say. 



Canada, United States and ^Mexico. 



Pupa ovata antiquorum Ckll. is a synonym. 

 Vertigo morsei Sterki. 



Kent county, Mich. ; Sandusky, 0. 

 Vertigo binneyana Sterki. 



Manitoba to Seattle, "Wash., south to New Mexico. 

 Vertigo pygmaea Drap. 



Lake Superior and New England, south to Pennsylvania and 

 west to Ohio. Synonyms: V. callosa Sterki, not Reuss; P. ^upe- 

 rioris Pilsbry. 

 Vertigo andrusiana I'ilsbry. 



Douglas county. Ore. 

 Vertigo arotioa Wallenb. 



Identified by Westerluud from Port Clarence, Alaska. We 

 have not seen it. 

 Vertigo tridentata Wolf. , 



New York and eastern Pennsylvania to Illinois. 

 Vertigo parvula Sterki. 



Northern Ohio; Mitchell county, N. C. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 601:> 



Vertigo ventricosa (Morse). 



Quebec and Maine to Illinois. Synonym: V. approximans 

 Sterki. 

 Vertigo ventricosa elatior Sterki. 



Western Alberta to Ohio. Synonym: V. gouldii lagganensis 

 Pilsbry. 

 Vertigo gould i Binn. 



Ontario and Maine to Montana, south to Tennessee, Maryland 

 and New Jersey. V. gouldii paradoxa Sterki is an undescribed 

 variety from Woodland, Aroostook county. Me. 



Vertigo gouldii bollesiana (Morse). 

 Middle and New England States. 



Vertigo bollesiana arthuri Martens. 



Little Missouri, Dakota. (Unknown to us.) 



Vertigo columbiana Sterki. 



Vancouver Island to Oregon. 

 Vertigo columbiana utabensis Sterki. 



Box Elder Carion, Utah. 



Vertigo modesta (Saj^). 



Synonym : Pupa decora Gld. 



Lake Superior region to Alberta and northward ; also loess of 

 Iowa. 

 Vertigo modesta corpulenta (Morse). 



Utah, Nevada. 

 Vertigo modesta parietalis (Anc). 



Utah and Colorado. 

 Vertigo modesta castanea (Sterki). 



Fish Camp, Fresno county, and Lake County, Cal. 

 Vertigo coloradensis (Ckll.). 



Custer county. Col. 

 Vertigo coloradensis basidens P. & V. 



Bland, New Mexico. 

 Vertigo coloradensis arizonensis P. an'i V. 



Jerome, Ariz. 

 Vertigo concinnula (Ckll.). 



Colorado and New Mexico. 




610 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Vertigo rowelli (Newc). 



Oregon to middle portion of California. 



Section NEARCTULA Sterki. 

 Vertigo californica (Rowell). 



San Francisco, Cal. 

 Vertigo californica elongata Sterki. 



San Clemente Island. 

 Vertigo californica catalinaria Sterki. 



San Clemente Island and S. Catalina Island. 



Vertigo californica diegoensis Sterki. 

 San Diego, Cal., to San Ramon, L. Cal. 



Vertigo californica trinotata Sterki. 

 Monterey, Cal. 



Vertigo californica oyclops Sterki. 

 riacer county, Cal. 



Section HAPLOPUPA Pils. 

 Vertigo dalliana Sterki. 



Lake county, Cal. 



Sectiou 



Vertigo oscariana Sterki. 



Florida to Texas ; Tennessee. 



Sectiou BOTHKIOPUPA Pils. 

 Vertigo variolosa Old. 



Near mouth of INIiami river, Fla. 



Subgenus Vertilla Moii.-Tand. 

 Vertigo milium c,\([. 



Ontario and INIaine, west to Minnesota, south to Florida ami 

 Texas. 




1900.] XATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 611 



EXPLANATION OF PLATES. 



Plate XXIL 

 Figures 9, 10, 11 X 13 ; 1-8 X 20. 



Fig. 1, Bifidaria riipicola (Say). Tick Island, Volusia county, 



Fla. Xo. 69,500, coll. A. X. S. 

 Fig. 2. B. hordeacella parvidens Sterki. Mescal Gulch, Jerome, 



Ariz. No. 78,717. 

 Fig. 3. B. Jiordeacella (Pils. ). New Braunfels, Tex. No. 



60,460. 

 Figs. 4, 5. B. procera cristata Pils. and Van. Camp Verde. 



Ariz. No. 68,694. 

 Figs. 6, 7. B. procera (Gld.). AVashington, D. C. 

 Fig. 8. B. dalliana Sterki. Nogales, Ariz. Xo. 78,689. 

 Figs. 9, 10. Pupa hebes Ancey. Summit of Mt. Mingus, near 



Jerome, Ariz. Xo. 78,709. 

 Fig. 11. Pupoides hordaceus (Gabb). Fort Grant, Ariz. One 



of the original lot, probably the type specimen. 



Plate XXIII. 

 All figures X 25. 



Fig. 1. Vertigo modesta parietalis (Ancey). Ogden Caiion, 



Utah. 

 Fig. 2. Veiiigo modesta parietalis (Xnc). Dyea Valley, Alaska. 



Xo. 73,661. 

 Fig. 3. Ve7-tigo modesta (Sa.j) . Laggan, Alberta. Xo. 76,375. 

 Figs. 4, 5. Veiiigo modesta castanea Sterki. Fish Camp, Fresno 



county, Cal. 

 Fig. 6. Vertigo modesta (Say). Labrador. Xo. 4,352. 

 Fig. 7. Vertigo modesta corpulenta (Morse). Ogden Caiion, 



Utah. 

 Fig. 8. Veiiigo condnnula (Ckll.). Jemez Mountains, Ariz. 



Xo. 73,587. 

 Fig. 9. Vertigo coloradensis arizonensis Pils. and Van. Summit 



of Mt. Mingus, near Jerome, Ariz. 

 Fig. 10. Veiiigo columbiana iitahensis Sterki. Box Elder Caiion, 



Utah. 

 Fig. 11. Veiiigo columbiana Sterki. Vancouyer Island. Xo. 



68,881. 




612 proceedings of the academy of [1900. 



October 2. 

 Mr. Chaeles Roberts in the Chair. 

 Fifteen persons present. 



October 9. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 

 Eleven persons present. 



October 16. 



Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Seventeen persons present. 



" A Biographical Notice of Charles Eastwick Smith," by 

 Thomas Meehan, was presented for publication. 



October 23. 



Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Eighteen persons present. 



A paper entitled " Additions to the Japanese Laud Snail 

 Fauna, III," by Henry A. Filsbry, was presented for publication. 



October 30. 

 Mr. Charles Roberts in the Chair. 

 Forty-one persons pi'eseut. 



Dr. Adolph W. ]Miller made a communication on his recent visit 

 to the zoological and botanical gardens of Paris and Germany. 

 (No abstract.) 



Thomas S. Stewart, M.D., was elected a member. 



The following were ordered to be printed : 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 613 



POST-LARVAL CHANGES IN THE VERTEBRAL ARTICULATIONS 

 OF SPELERPES AND OTHER SALAMANDERS. 



BY J. PERCY MOORE. 



In defining the minor subdivisions of the Urodela, Cope and 

 Boulenger have given fundamental importance to the form of the 

 vertebral central articulations. Cope ('89, p. 33, and earlier 

 papers) arranges the families of Pseudosauria in two series, the one 

 characterized by amphicoilous, the other bj opisthocoelus veitebrse, 

 and on p. 190 he states that the peculiarity of the vertebne chiefly 

 distinguishes the Desmognathidte from the Plethodontidse. Bou- 

 lenger ('82, p. 2), whose subfamilies of salamanders have nearly 

 the same content as Cope's families, mentions the form of the cen- 

 tral articulations as the sole distinguishing feature between his 

 Plethodontinffi and Desmognathime. 



Apparently the only serious criticism of the value of this char- 

 acter has been made by Vaillant, who in a short note ('84) 

 describes the vertebrae of Autodax (Anaides) luf/ubris as opistho- 

 ccelous. Boulenger, after an examination of the dissection made 

 by the French zoologist, characterizes ('85) this statement as 

 erroneous. In a second note ('86) Vaillant explains the reason 

 for this difference of opinion and reiterates his former statement. 

 The vertebrae in question he describes as osteologically amphicoelous 

 but physiologically opisthocoelous, meaning by this that if the ac- 

 tual bone tissue alone be considered the centra are biconcave ; but 

 that the anterior cup is filled by a cartilaginous nodule, which pro- 

 jects freely in the form of a hemipshere whose free surface fits 

 into the posterior socket of the preceding vertebra. 



If a full-grown larva of Spelerpes ruber be examined, the verte- 

 bral centra will be found to be very deeply concave. The apices of 

 the two cone-shaped cavities almost meet at the middle of the verte- 

 bra, where they communicate through a small foramen through 

 which the here constricted uotochord passes. The cavities are 

 largely occupied by the notochord, which suffers a second (inter- 

 vertebral) constriction due to an annular thickening of the car- 

 40 




614 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



tilaginous notochordal sheath by which contiguous vertebrse are 

 bound together. 



After the metamorphosis, when the young salamander has a 

 length of 90-100 mm., this cartilaginous ring increases in thick- 

 ness and extent so that it largely replaces and constricts the noto- 

 chord. The cartilage becomes firmer and may be removed in its 

 entirety as a fusiform nodule bearing fragments of the notochord 

 at its ends. If the vertebral column, either in its fresh state or 

 after preservation in alcohol, be bent sharply so that it parts inter- 

 vertebrally, this nodule will remain attached indiflferently either to 

 the anterior or posterior contiguous vertebra. 



Gradually the cartilage extends, encroaching more and more on 

 the notochord, and at the same time its posterior peripheral 

 parts begin to calcify, first in a post-equatorial zone which lies just 

 within the rim of the anterior cup of the succeeding vertebra. In 

 individuals having a length of 120 mm.^ this calcified ring is already 

 quite conspicuously developed and has united with the anterior 

 vertebral rim. Dried skeletons of this stage show the anterior 

 vertebral cup with a thick, rather rough rim and a correspondingly 

 constricted opening, while the posterior cup remains almost exactly 

 of its previous form and j)roportions. Its opening is large, uncou- 

 stricted and has a smooth, thin margin which embraces the next 

 succeeding centrum ; its inner surface is bounded everywhere by 

 hard, true bone lined by a thin layer of cartilage. ^Moreover, if 

 the column be forcibly broken as described above, the cartilaginous 

 nodule almost invariably jjarts from the preceding and remains 

 attached to the succeeding vertebra, showing its more intimate 

 organic union with the latter. A smooth articulation between this 

 cartilage and the posterior face of the preceding vertebra begins to 

 be evident and the contiguous centra are united In' an annular 

 intervertebral ligament. A condition closely approximating that 

 just described is figured by Wiedersheim ('93, p. 61, fig. 41,C. ). 



With increasing age and size the calcified area continues tu en- 

 croach on the cartilaginous matrix. The ring becomes thicker and 

 its posterior margin exteuds toward the middle region of the cen- 

 trum. As a result the anterior cavity of ihe bony vertebra grows 



^ As there appears to be some individual variation in the rate of change. 

 the conditions descrihcd mnst be undei'stood as belonging to individuals of 

 only approximately the lengths stated. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 615 



smaller as it is filled up from the bottom and sides by the gradual 

 replacement of true cartilage by calcified cartilage. To a corre- 

 sponding degree the cartilaginous nodule becomes incorporated with 

 the succeeding vertebra and structurally separated from the pre- 

 ceding one. In ordinary breeding individuals, having a length of 

 130-150 mm., is reached the condition which Vaillant has happily 

 described as physiologically opisthoca?lous, in which the actual 

 intervertebral centre of movement is between a cartilaginous ball 

 structurally united with the anterior end of one vertebra and a 

 deep cup borne on the posterior face of the other. There is no 

 synovial articulation formed at this stage but only a curved sur- 

 face of fracture which divides the intervertebral cartilage. 



In still larger individuals, up to a length of 170 mm., which are 

 not rare, the process of calcification has extended all through the 

 cartilage within the anterior vertebral cup, at first leaving here 

 and there little lakes of unaltered cartilage, wdiich are finally also 

 affected by the change. The transformation of tissue then over- 

 flows the boundaries of the cup, first at the rim, but gradually 

 extends into the centre and anterior superfices of the cartilaginous 

 head. At this period of development the unchanged cartilage has 

 been reduced to a cap which fits over a rounded calcified head of 

 its transformed substance and becomes constantly reduced in 

 thickness as the process of calcification extends. If the cartilage 

 be scraped away or shrunken by complete drying a larger or 

 smaller central depression appears in the anterior face of the ver- 

 tebra at the point where the notochord and its cartilaginous en- 

 velope longest persist. 



Finally, in the very largest individual which I have seen, which, 

 if the tail were complete, would measure upward of 180 mm., 

 the vertebrse are quite as opisthoccelous as even in the largest 

 individuals of Desmognathus. The anterior ball has become, with 

 the exception of a thio articular surface such as persists in all 

 opisthoccelous salamanders, completely calcified and as hard and 

 dense as the body of the vertebra. So far as microscopical exam- 

 ination has extended, this calcified tissue does not become true 

 bone. In sections after removal of the lime salts the original 

 cartilage, except for the rearrangement of the cells, remains in a 

 nearly unaltered state. In many of the larger specimens the an- 

 nular intervertebral ligament ossifies, beginning at its anterior 




616 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



attachment and extending caudad. By this means the rim of the 

 posterior cup is built up higher and the socket deepened. Between 

 the overlapping vertebral rims an annular synovial sac is developed. 



Whether the vertebrse of Spelerpes ruber axQ pi operly designated 

 as amphiccelous or opisthocoelous depends, therefore, on the age of 

 the individual under consideration, and whether attention is 

 directed to the bony parts only or to the cartilage as well. During 

 late larval life and for a time after the metamorphosis, the ver- 

 tebrse are both osteologically*^ and physiologically amphiccelous. 

 During the prime of life they are still amphiccelous so far as the 

 strictly bony portions of the centra are concerned; but if, as seems 

 more logical, the cartilaginous structures also are considered they 

 cannot be characterized otherwise than as opisthocoelous. In old 

 age they are opistboccelous in every sense in which that term can 

 be applied to \he vertebric of Desmognathus. Developmental 

 progress in the structure of the vertebrte from a primitive to a 

 more specialized type is continuous throughout life. 



It is well known that the amphiccelous condition of the vertebrae 

 of th( higher salamanders is attained by a course of development 

 essentially similar to what has just been described for Spelerpes. 

 The examination of a large series of Desmognathus fusca and D. 

 nigra shows that this is true of these species. The species of 

 Desmognathus transform when of much smaller size relatively to the 

 limit of growth than those of Spelerpes. The just transformed D. 

 fusca is about one-half the length of S. ruber at a corresponding 

 period, although the breeding adults are only about twenty per 

 cent, inferior. Calcification of the intervertebral cartilage pro- 

 ceeds quite rapidly, so that individuals of 50-60 mm. are in the 

 same stage as Spelerpes ruber of 135-140 mm. Even before 

 attaining a length of 100 mm. the vertebrie are as strictly opistho- 

 cttlous as in the largest S. ruber, and have attained that condition 

 by a similar series of steps. It is noticeable that the calcified 

 material of the ball is softer than the fully ossified portions of the 

 vertebrae, and that small enclosures of unchanged cartilage may 

 persist, as Avell as a remnant in the centre of its free surface, 

 where a depression appears in the dry skeleton. The later develop- 

 ment consists simply in the completion of calcification. 



^ Used in the sense of Vaillant iu the papers cited, and of some system - 

 at'sts to denote the condition ol actual bone and calcification. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 617 



The vertebrre of the two forms now under consideration do not 

 properly belong to two types, but differ only in the period of life 

 at which the steps in development arc passed through and at which 

 the higher structural type is attained. The completely osseous 

 opisthocoelous condition is reached in Desmognathus fusca prior to 

 the period of maturity and reproduction, in Spelerpes ruber only 

 after that period. 



It seemed desirable to ascertain whether these conditions are 

 general among the genera of the more primitive families of the 

 Pseudosauria.^ As it was important to mutilate most of the 

 material as little as possible, but a single articulation was generally 

 exposed and studied on each specimen, and for the sake of uni- 

 formity this was always the same one, the fifth anterior to the 

 sacral vertebra being selected for various reasons. The following 

 notes show the character of typical genera : 



AMBLYSTOMID^. 



The largest available specimens of Amblystoma opacum, A. 

 tigrinum, A. punctatum and A. jeffersonianum were examined with- 

 out the detection of any changes of the nature sought. Through- 

 out life the vertebrae appear to remain deeply and equally am phi - 

 ccelous and the intervertebral cartilage to undergo uo calcification. 



Chondrotus tenebrosus. 



It was fully expected that this species, because of its large size 

 and robust build, might present calcified intervertebral cartilages, 

 but even an unusually large individual (282 mm.) remains in the 

 simplest amphicoelous condition. The two faces of the centi'um 

 are equally and very deeply cupped. The notochord is largely 

 persistent. The intervertebral thickening of the cartilaginous 

 sheath is slight and extends into the concavities of the contiguous 

 vertebrae, from which it may be easily removed without injury. 



PLETHODONTID^. 



The very small species of this family will require to be studied 

 by means of sections, but the following will illustrate the condi- 

 tions met with : — 



' This I have been enabled to partially do cbiefly tbrongb the courtesy of 

 tbe Curators of the Academy of Xatiiral Sciences of Philadelphia, and espe- 

 cially of the Conservator of Yertehrata. ^Ir. Witmer Stone, who placed at 

 my disposal the extensive collections of that institntion. 




618 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Hemidactylium scutatum. 



The largest specimens examined measure 80-85 mm. and are 

 strictly amphicoelous. 

 Plethodon cinereus. 



Always strictly amphicoelous. This species and the next are 

 among those which show that neither a terrestrial habit nor a long 

 period of growth between metamorphosis and maturity is the 

 determining factor in the complete calcification of the articular 

 head. 



Flethodon glutinosus. 



Many specimens of this species were examined, including two 

 large ones of 167 mm. and 177 mm., belonging to the collection 

 at the Academy, All have deeply biconcave vertebrie without any 

 visible sign of calcification of the intervertebral cartilage, though 

 in the larger individuals it is evidently more firmly attached to the 

 succeeding than the preceding vertebra. Although there is na 

 fully formed articulation, a definite curved surface of fracture 

 corresponding to one is developed. 

 Plethodon aeneus. Plethodon oregonensis. 



Botli am})hic(el()us. Of the former the largest specimen examined 

 measured 164 mm. ; in this the whole body of the vertebra appears 

 to be somewhat imperfectly ossified. 



Autodax lugubris. 



In two examples of 90 mm. and lOo mm. length the vertebrae 

 are biconcave, with the intervertel)ral cartilage unmodified and 

 most strongly attached by the articular ligaments to the anterior 

 vertebra. The intervertebral articulation is developed. Two 

 others of about 145 mm. have the posterior face deeply cupped, 

 the anterior, after removal of the cartilage, much more shallow 

 and rough from the development of calcified tissue. The uncal- 

 cified cartilage has a smooth surface which fits into the next an- 

 terior socket. 



Geotriton fusous. 



Only one small specimen of SG mm. was available for dissection, 

 and this was nearly equally amphicivlous, with the intervertebral 

 cartilage remaining attached to the posterior face on being frac- 

 tured. Murray ('97) has figured a section of a vertebra of thia 

 species which exhibits no modification of the cartilaginous inter- 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 619 



vertebral ring. Probably older specimens would shoAV changes 

 similar to Spelerpes ruber. 



(Edipus variegatus. 



One with the tail missing and the body measuring 45 mm. in 

 length has the anterior face slightly less cupped than the posterior, 

 and retaining the intervertebral cartilage. In two specimens of 

 145 mm. and 147 mm. the anterior cup is about one-third filled 

 with calcified cartilage. 



Gyrinophilus porphyriticus. 



A larva of 7>i mm. has the bony centra deeply biconcave, the 

 notochord largely persistent but constricted by a narrow but rather 

 thick intervertebral cartilaginous ring. 



A specimen of 106 mm., probably recently metamorphosed, 

 exhibits a much more extensively developed intervertebral carti- 

 lage, but appears to be unchanged otherwise. 



In one of 133 mm. the notochord is still largely persistent, the 

 intervertebral articulation has formed in the cartilage as a curved 

 plate of flattened cells and the widely flaring posterior rim of the 

 bony centrum begins to overlap and embrace the more constricted 

 anterior rim. This is nearly the stage figured by Wiedersheim. 



One of 172 mm. shows aslisrht annular calcification of the inter- 

 vertebral cartilage within the anterior cup. 



In individuals of larger size the process of calcification is rapid. 

 One measuring 185 mm. has the anterior cup filled flush to the 

 brim with calcified tissue which px'eseuts a rough, nearly flat surface 

 when the cartilaginous head is scraped away. The largest speci- 

 men examined measured 200 mm., and in this the calcification 

 extends slightly beyond the cup's rim. 



Spelerpes bellii. 



This large species probably undergoes intervertebral calcification, 

 if at all, relatively later than S. ruber. In specimens of 180 mm. 

 and 240 mm. no trace of calcareous infiltration could be delected. 

 In both cases the intervertebral cartilage is more firmly attached 

 by the articular ligaments to the anterior vertebra than by direct 

 union to the posterior one. 

 Spelerpes longicudus. 



Of all the species of Plethodontidre examined this appears to be 

 the most precocious in respect to the feature under consideration. 




620 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



In an example measuring only 90 mm. calcification has already 

 progressed so far as to fill about one-half of the anterior cup, and 

 in one of 135 mm. the cup is filled to the brim, leaving only a 

 very slight central depression. 

 Spelerpes bilineatus. Spelerpes guttolineatus. 



Exhibit changes similar in character but somewhat more tardy 

 in the time of their appearance. 



DESMOO-NATHID^. 

 Typhlotriton spelseus. 



The vertebne of a 90 mm. example of this interesting blind 

 salamander, of which only slightly larger specimens have been 

 taken, are in about the same condition as those of a 60 mm. D. 

 fusca, and consequem ly opisthocoelous only in the sense in which a 

 mature Spelerpes ruber is opisthocoelous. 

 Desmognatlius nigra. 



Similar to D. fusca, but somewhat more retarded in development. 



Leurognathus marmorata. 



Of this species only a siugle skeleton of a length of 117 mm. 

 has been examined. It diffei'S from Desmognatlius only in the 

 greater prominence of the articular head. 



Of the Salamandridiie and Pleurodelidic no specimens were 

 examined in this connection, as the vertebne are well known 

 through the researches of Wiedersheim ('75) and others to be 

 strongly opisthocoelous and to ossify early. 



When recourse is had to sections of a sufficient series of stages, 

 other interesting changes and generic differences will no doubt 

 appear ; but from the study of gross features alone it becomes 

 evident that as regards the form of the vertebral articulations the 

 genera of the families of salamanders present an unbroken devel- 

 opmental series. 



The Amblystomidte are probably always amphiccelous through- 

 out life. 



Within the Plethodontidfe the genera arrange themselves in two 

 groups, the one including Plethodon and Hemidadylium, the other 

 Spelerpes, GyrinophilHS, Autodax and (Edijms. The Plefhodou 

 group remains in the primitive state with little or no post-larval 

 calcification of the intervertebral cartilages. The members of the 

 Spelerpes group all (S. bellii f) tend toward the opisthocoelous con- 




1900,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 621 



dition, and earlier or later in life the intervertebral cartilages are 

 affected by a process of calcification which is progressive and may 

 finally involve the entire substance of the articular heads. It 

 may be observed that the grouping of the genera as suggested, 

 wiih the exception of Autodax, is confirmatory of Cope's view of 

 their affiniiies. 



Desmognathus and its allies arrive at the final opisthoccelous 

 stage much earlier but by a series of post-larval stages quite 

 similar. 



Many peculiar structural features segregate the amphiccelous 

 Amblystomidae, on the one hand, and the opisthoccelous Salaman- 

 dridee and Pleurodelidte, on the other, into distinct family groups. 

 The failure of the only important character which has seemed to 

 make the family distinction of the Plethodontid?e and Desmog- 

 nathidie desirable renders their separate continuance no longer 

 necessary. Although Leurognathns resembles Desmognathxis in 

 the absence of a prefi'ontal bone in the adult, this is a very 

 doubtful character, and in any case would probably have, with the 

 peculiarities of the tongue, no more than subfamily value. The 

 family should retain the prior name of Plethodontidse. It seems 

 to represent a phyletic line connected directly with the lower 

 amphiccelous salamanders ; and distinct from the Amphiumid^e, on 

 the one hand, and the Pleurodelidse and Salamandridse on the 

 other. 



List of Papers Cited.' 



Boulenger, G. A. '83. Catalogue of the Batrachia Gradientia 

 in the Collection of the British Museum. 2d ed. London, 1882. 



Boulenger, G. A. ^^h. Reptilia and Batrachia. The Zoological 

 Record for 1884. 



Cope, E. D. '89. The Batrachia of North America. Bulletin 

 No. 34, U. S. National Museum, Washington, 1889. 



Gegenbaur, C. '62. Untersuchungen zur vergleichenden An- 

 atomic der Wirbelsaiile der Amphibien und Reptilien. Leipzig, 

 1862. 



Murray, J. A. '97. The Vertebral Column of certain primi- 

 tive Urodela. Anatomischer Anzeiger, XIII, 661-2. 



Vaillant, T. '82. Remarque sur la disposition des corps verte- 

 braux chez I'Anaides lugubris Hallowell. Bulletin de la 

 Societe Philomathique de Paris (7), VI (1882), 183. 




622 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Vaillant, T. '86. Note complemeDtaire sur ranatomie de 

 I'Anaides lugubris Hallo well. 2d. (7), X (1886), 42-43. 



Wiedersheim, K. '75. Versuch einer vergleichenden Anatomie 

 der Salaraandrinen. Genoa, 1875. 



Wiedersheim, R. '93. Grundriss der vergleichenden Anatomie 

 der Wirbelthiere. Jena, 1893. 




1900. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 623 



AN ECOLOGICAL STUDY OF THE NEW JERSEY STRAND FLORA. 

 BY JOHN W. HARSHBERGER, PH.D. 



The development of the Atlantic sea coast from Maine to Vir- 

 ginia, and especially of the coastal lands of New Jersey, as places of 

 summer resort has rendered a botanical survey of the shore line an 

 imperative necessity. With the rise of towns and cities and the 

 building of railroads, the primitive condition of the sea beaches 

 has been remarkably changed. Dunes have been leveled, marshes 

 have been filled in, old drainage areas have been removed, new 

 soil has been brought to cover the sand formations to prevent their 

 drifting, and these alterations have not failed to produce corre- 

 sponding changes in the vegetation. New plants, weeds and the 

 like, able, as well as the native plants, to withstand the saline con- 

 ditions of air and soil, have been introduced Avith the coming of 

 man as a permanent habitant ; the old vegetation has been grad- 

 ually removed, or, no longer able to grow under the altered condi- 

 tions, has given place to the emigrants distributed by the aid of 

 human beings. 



Eecognizing these facts, the present study of the sea-beach flora 

 of New Jersey was undertaken by the writer, so as to preserve in 

 some permanent form a record of the plant life, the distribution of 

 the peculiar vegetation and the ecological relationships of the plants 

 before the rapid change of the old conditions rendered impossible 

 such an ecological survey. The material for this paper has been 

 collecting for a number of years. As far back as 1894 the writer 

 began his observations on the sea-beach flora, but during the pres- 

 ent season (1900) the major part of the facts recorded here were 

 gathered to form this permanent record. 



During the summer's field work a number of places were vis- 

 ited along the Jersey coast, so as to make the account of the coastal 

 flora as comprehensive as possible. The most exact reconnoissance 

 was made at Seaside Park, Ocean County, where the writer has 

 summered for a number of seasons, so that Barnegat Beach is 




624 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



taken as typical, and the beaches of other situations visited (South 

 Atlantic City, Ocean City and Wildwood) are^chosen as modifying 

 or strengthening the conclusions reached by a close study during 

 several seasons of the salt-strand formations at Seaside Park, X. J. 

 The choice of Barnegat Beach as a typical sea strand is not an 

 firbitrary one. Of all the beaches visited, it conforms most closely 

 to the ideal beach formation, and presents in its southern extension 

 the coastal vegetation undisturbed by the hand of man, and in a 

 condition as nature has left it. 



While the collection of material was under way, a very impor- 

 tant and instructive paper' appeared from the pen of Thomas H. 

 Kearney, Jr., dealing with the plant covering of Ocracoke Island. 

 N. C. 



In order to make the results recorded in this paper conform 

 with those obtained by Mr. Kearney, the nomenclature used is made 

 identical with his. The nomenclature is mainly that followed in 

 Britton and Brown's Illustrated Flora of the Northern United 

 States and Canada, but, in order that those who are interested in 

 ecological work and are not familiar with this nomenclature may 

 find no difficulty in recognizing the species described, the names 

 used in the later works of Gray and of Chapman are quoted in 

 parentheses. It is hoped that by doing this — i.e., adopting the 

 same plan as used in the above-cited paper — an unbroken survey of 

 the coast vegetation from Sandy Hook to North Carolina will be 

 presented to the l)otanist ecologically inclined. In ]Mr. Herbert J. 

 Webber's paper, " Dunes of Florida," printed in Science,* we 

 have presented the conditions of plant growth as found along 

 the seashore of Florida. What is needed to complete an account 

 of the ecology of the Atlantic coast of temperate North America 

 is a study of the strand vegetation of Long Island, which I believe 

 to be much like that of New Jersey ; a study of the New England 

 coast, from Rhode Island to Maine, and a survey of the condi- 

 tions to be found in Nova Scotia and Newfoundland, which work 

 may well be committed to some enterprising Canadian botanist. 



The appended list is derived from three sources of information: 



^ 1900, Kearnev, " The Plant Covering of Ocracoke Island : A Study in the 

 Ecology of the N. C. Strand Vegetation," Contrib. U. S. XaVl Iltrbarium, 

 Vol. V. No. 5, pp. 2(il-3l9. 



' 1898, Webber, "Dunes of Floriila," Science, N. S. Vol. VIII. pp. Gol- 

 660, G90-T00. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. C25 



(1) The collections of plants made by the writer at Seaside Park, 

 South Atlantic City, Ocean City and Wildwood. (2) The speci- 

 mens in the herbarium of the Philadelphia Botanical Club. (3) 

 The " Catalogue of Plants Found in Xew Jersey," by Dr. N. L. 

 Britton.^ Synonyms are also given in the list, so as to render it 

 more intelligible. 



The several divisions under -which the subject of the ecology of 

 the Kew Jersey strand flora is presented are the following: (1) 

 Physiography; (2) geology and soils; (3) climate; (4) the plant 

 formations, their composition and physiognomy; (5) ecological 

 forms — adaptations to environment; (6) phytogeography ; (7) list. 



Physiography.'* 



From Bay Head, lat. 40° 4' N., to Cape May City, lat. 38° 

 58' N., stretches in front of the mainland of Xew Jersey a pro- 

 tective barrier of sand, in width from a few rods to a half a mile, 

 separated from the mainland by bays or shallow inlets of the 

 ocean, or where these have been gradually filled in by the depo- 

 sition of sand and the action of plants, by wide stretches of salt 

 or tidal marshes, consisting of tide-swept sand, or covered by a 

 luxuriant growth of salt-marsh plants. These narrow sand 

 beaches which fringe the coast have been cast up by the action of 

 the waves on the shallow continental ocean front. The sand thus 

 deposited is caught up by the wind, which exerts a shovel-like 

 action on the sand, greatest when an east wind blows, and is piled 

 up in dunes, which on the Xew Jersey coast rise usually from 



3 Fi?ial Report State Geologist of N. J., Vol. II, pp. 27-642. 



* The student of the New Jersey coast flora is referred to the following: 

 excellent maps of the State and of the coast line : 



"The Atlas of Xew Jersey," comprising maps showing Geodetic and 

 Topographic Surveys of New Jersey, issued ia 1S39. 



No. 9. Monmouih Shore, Sandy Hook to Manasquan. 



No. 13. Vicinity of Barueiat Bay. 



No. 16. Egg Harbor and Vicinity, including Atlantic shore from Barnegat 

 to Great Egg Harbor. 



No. 17. Cape May Shore Line. 



No. 18. New Jersey State Map. Geographic. 



No. 19. New Jersey Relief Map. Hypsometric. 



No. 20. New Jersey Geological Map. 



Coast Charts U. S. Hydcograpliic Office. 



Chart 8. Montauk Point to Cape Henlopen. 



Chart 121. Sandy Hook to Barnegat. 



Chart 122. Barnegat to Absecon. 



Chart 123. Absecon to Cape 31ay. 




626 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



15 to 25 feet, but on Seven-mile Beach to a height of 43 feet. 

 In front of the dune formation extends the tidal beach proper 

 of varying extent. It may be divided into the lower, the middle 

 and the upper beaches, using the terms of Cowles.' At high 

 tide the water never completely reaches to the base of the dunes, 

 but with exceptionally high water or during a storm the base and 

 even the top of the dune may be water-swept. Back of the pri- 

 mary dune formation are usually found other dunes more or less 

 broken up into rounded eminences by wind action, and presenting 

 deep gullies sul^ject at all times to the scooping power of the 

 breezes which are active in the formation of the dune complex.' 



The upper beach exists at the places visited, according to the 

 observations of the writer, only at Wildwood. Its limits else- 

 where are vague and uncertain. The lower beach is the zone of 

 land limited by the wash of summer storms, and is in New Jersey 

 entirely barren of plant life. The middle beach is determined by 

 the presence of driftwood and extends to the foot of the dunes. 

 The hollows of the secondary dunes in depth usually correspond 

 to the level of the ground water, for digging a few inches into 

 the wet sand reveals the presence of fresh water, which has fil- 

 tered through the sand from the ocean on the one side, and from 

 the salt mai'shes or bays on the other. The force with which 

 this sand is blown against obstacles in its path may be realized 

 if one stoops down and faces it. The carving of dead and living 

 trees exposed to these sand blasts is another evidence of their 

 power. 



Back of the dune complex, which is constantly shifting its posi- 

 tion on the broader beaches, is found the belt or zone which has 

 been captured by vegetation. Such belts are found at Seaside Park 

 (a mile below the town at Read's Hotel), at South Atlantic City, 

 where it exists in the middle of the salt marsh, at Ocean City and 

 at Wildwood. I have denominated such areas tliicket forma- 

 tions, in contradistinction to beach and dune formations. At 

 Seaside Park proper, where the thicket formation does not exist, 



'1899, Cowles, "Dune Floras of Lake Michigan," Botanical Gazette, 

 XXVII, p. 114. 



•■ The dune complex consists of active or vrandering dunes and of primary 

 and secondary embrjonic dunes, or those Just starting to form by the piling 

 np of the blowing sand around some obstxicle. The most striking topo- 

 graphical efl'ect of the dune complex is that of a vast, billowy sea of sand. 

 It illustrates almost all conditions of a dune's life history. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 627 



the dune complex gradually slopes to meet the salt marsh which 

 fringes Baruegat Bay, and is in turn followed by the sandy 

 bay beach, which is backed by low dunes or sand hills a foot or 

 two high. Where the thicket formation exists it ma}' reach the 

 bay dunes proper, when the salt marsh is practically absent, or 

 exists as swampy depressions surrounded by shrubby or arbores- 

 cent vegetation in the centre or edges of the thicket formation 

 proper, as exemplified at Island Beach Life Saving Station, Seaside 

 Park. Allusion will be made to these later, when the plants of 

 the several formations are referred to. The position of these 

 swampy areas, in which grow many salt-marsh plants, seems to indi- 

 cate that at some time the sand has blown out upon the salt marsh, 

 coverins: it up with dunes, afterward captured by woody plants 

 which prevent them from wandering farther. At Wildwood and 

 Ocean City the thicket formation is succeeded toward the westward 

 by the low-lying, typical salt marshes. 



The slope and position of these New Jersey beaches are constantly 

 changing. At New Inlet, Long Beach extended three miles 

 farther southward in 1885 than it did in 1841, while the beach 

 south of Little Egg Harbor Inlet had grown one mile northward 

 in the same time. Five-mile Beach had its south end three- 

 quarters of a mile farther south and half a mile more to seaward 

 than its position in 1772.' From Bay Head to Cape May, the 

 beaches are cut through by ten inlets, through which the tide 

 ebbs and flows to the bays inside. The interval between these 

 inlets is over 20 miles at the north, but decreases to 2 miles near 

 Cape May. There has been a tendency to decrease in the number 

 of inlets and at least six have been permanently closed during this 

 century. Inside of this line of beaches is a series of bays and 

 sounds connected by a network of narrow crooked channels, called 

 thoroughfares, in such a wa}^ that boats of light draft can pass 

 from the head of Baruegat Bay over 90 miles down to Cape INIay, 

 keeping entirely inside the beaches. Baruegat Bay is the largest 

 of these, being nearly 30 miles long, with an area of 72 square 

 miles. Its depth northward from* Baruegat lulet scai-cely exceeds 

 10 feet, but southward it reaches a depth of 20 feet. It varies 

 from two to four miles in width, leaving the beaches well cut oflf 



' 1888, Verineule, Final Report Geological Survey of New Jersey, I, 

 p. 179. 




628 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



from the maiuland. Barnegat Beach, as the series of beaches 

 to the eastward of Barnegat Bay are called collectively, may be 

 taken, therefore, as the most typical beach of the New Jersey 

 coast, and the one most exhaustively described from an ecological 

 standpoint in this paper. 



The salt marshes northward from Ba-negat Inlet nowhere 

 exceed a mile in width and are usually much less, as at Seaside 

 Park. Southward Ihey widen, encroaching more on the bays, 

 but there is back of Long Beach a width of from two to four 

 miles of water. Between Tuckerton and Beach Haven, Little 

 Egg Harbor Bay is four miles wide. It has a depth of fi'om 5 to 

 10 feet at mean tide, but there is a channel running down from 

 Cedar Bonnets to the Inlet in which the minimum depth is 10 feet 

 and the maximum 32 feet. Through this buy are scattered many 

 islands of marsh, and at its foot a long tongue of marsh puts out 

 from the mainland toward the south end of Long Beach, 4^ miles. 

 It is from 1 to 2 miles wide, and is cut up into numerous islamU 

 by thoroughfares. Going from Great Bay southward to Great Egg 

 Harbor Bay, (he tidal plain diminishes in width from 6^ miles to 

 less than three. It is fronted by Island, Brigantine and Absecon 

 Beaches, back of which the marshes are cut up by a series of small 

 bays and broad channels into countless islands, the areas of marsh 

 and water being nearly equal. Soutiiward in Cape May County the 

 plain varies from 2 to 4 miles, and the marshes exceed in area the 

 water.* 



Geology and Soils. 



From a geological standpoint, the sea beaches of New Jersey 

 are of recent origin. They lie upon the older rock formations 

 which crop out in parallel series along the Delaware river side of 

 the State. These earlier rocky strata slant downward and south- 

 eastward, and presumably the whole of the overlying strata in 

 southern New Jersey are built upon gneiss, which is followed in 



* Under the caption " Plant Formations, tlieir Composition and Physi- 

 ognomy," more detailed reference will be made to the physiographical 

 featnres of the places visited. The above account must suflii-e at this point. 

 The student of the dynamics ot dunes who desires to study the detailed 

 eti'ects of the wind action on the formation of dunes and the moiiiticatiou of 

 vegetable organisms is referred to the papers of Dr. Cowles, where in an 

 elegant style his studies on the dunes of Michigan are set forth at some 

 length. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 629 



order upward by deposits of Cretaceous, Eoceue, Miocene and 

 Recent Periods. Numerous borings for artesian wells along the 

 Atlantic seaboard have revealed the extent of the deposits of the 

 several periods. These investigations have been pursued inde- 

 fatigably by Woolmau, who has given in several papers the results 

 of his study.' The superficial deposits concern the ecologist, 

 but the following data are given by way of comparing the super- 

 ficial, recent soil deposits and the older, deeper-lying ones. 



Artesian Well at Loncjport (803 feet deep). 



Recent, 75 feet. 



Pleistocene, 93 " 



Age? 92 " 



Miocene 543 " Diatomaceous. 



803 



Diatomaceous bed extends from 292 to 664 feet =: 372 feet 

 thick. 



Artesian Well at Wildivood (655 feet deep). 



( Soil and black muck full of roots of cedar and holly = 3 



Recent J ^^®^- 



I Beach sands, lower ten feet slightly darker in shade = 3 



t to 30 feet. 



30-61 feet. Age ? 



61-152 feet. Marine and fresh-water diatoms. 



61-290 feet. Agre ? Made up of mixed marine and fresh-water 



deposits, say 61 to 185 feet. 



290-665 feet — Miocene." ' 



The details given as to the most superficial dej)osits, which form 



the soil in which plants grow, are instructive. At Seaside Park 



the vegetable mold is of but slight depth and barely covers the 



sand in the thicket formation. On the salt marsh it is about a 



foot deep. The dunes are practically without auy vegetable 



detritus." At Wildwood, which, as will be shown later, possesses 



^ Woolman, Annual Reports Neio Jersey Geologist. 



'"1894, Woolman, "Vertical Sections of Wells at Atlantic City and 

 Wildwood," Annual Report JSexD Jersey Geologist,^. 188. 



^^ The oxidation or removal of decaying vegeiation is almost complete on 

 the newer dunes, so that the accumulation of humus is not important. On 

 the old, established dunes the mold becomes deeper and deeper, and after 

 the lapse of centuries the sandy soil beneath may become buried so deeply 

 that a mesophytic flora is able to establish itself, as beautifully exemplitied 

 on Five-mile Beach. 



41 




630 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



a remarkable forest growth, the depth of the vegetable mold ia 

 about three feet, indicating that the surface of Five-mile Beach was 

 one of the first to have been captured from the drifting action of 

 the winds. The soil of the dunes is chiefly quariz sand, consisting 

 of grains remarkably uniform in size, since the wind has made 

 a selection, being unable to pick up gravel or large sand parti- 

 cles. The sand, as a whole, appears whitish, but in the hollows 

 of the dune complex it is generally streaked with grains of black 

 sand, largely hornljlende and magnetite. Such a sandy soil has 

 a marked effect upon vegetation, being extremely porous and 

 almost devoid of cohesion between the grains. Plants growing 

 upon such porous sand deposits show always a xerophytic charac- 

 ter. This is the character of the soil of most of the beaches of 

 the New Jersey coast with the exception of Five-mile, Two- 

 mile and Poverty, or Cape May Beaches, where the sand, being 

 finer, is more compact and not easily blown into dunes. Wild- 

 wood, Holly Beach and Cape May have long been known for the 

 silky or velvety character of their beach sands. 



Another fact of very considerable interest must be mentioned 

 here. Many beaches of to-day rest on the tide marsh and a very 

 heavy storm will sometimes cut away the sand and expose the 

 marsh. on the ocean front. This was shown at Sea Isle City in 

 1892, but never to the knowledge of the writer at Barnegat 

 Beach. The sand of the beach here, and in other places, has been 

 carried over and deposited on the marsii, which was west of where 

 the beaches formerly lay. This is shown at Island Beach Life 

 Saving Station, where the old marsh has been entirely covered up 

 with the exception of a few spots which exist as isolated marshy 

 places in the midst of the dunes long since captured by trees and 

 other plants. The drifting in of the beach and the wearing away of 

 the sand in front has caused the kind of soil deposits described 

 above. 



Climatology. 



The introductory remarks concerning the climate of the Atlantic 

 coast of New Jersey are derived from the Final Report of the 

 Geological Survey of New Jersey, Vol. I, " Topography, Magnet- 

 usm, Climate," p. 347. 



That part of the State which borders the ocean and is near enough 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 631 



to be more directly exposed to the ameliorating influence of its 

 waters is here designated as the Atlantic Coast Belt. The influ- 

 ence of the ocean's ^\aters is felt very decidedl} to a distance of 

 four to eight miles from the line of beach, or outer coast line, from 

 Sandy Hook to Cape May. The distribution of the open bays, 

 tides, marshes, rivers and clearings alter this distance very con- 

 siderably. In severe storms the salt spray is felt several miles 

 back from the shore. " According to Eli Collins,'' of Barnegat, 

 a dry storm, September 3, 1821, carried spray of salt water three 

 miles inland, upsetting stacks, etc. It lasted from 9 A.M. to 

 3 P.M. For two hours it was cloudy and dark as a hurricane. 

 It killed the leaves of the trees, and after they fell new buds and 

 flowers were developed the same year." Col. B. Aycrigg, of 

 Passaic, says of the same storm: "Its violence may be estimated 

 from the fact that where I was staying, two miles from the bay 

 and six miles from the sea, the salt water was blown against the 

 windows and left a crust of salt, which had the effect o^ ground 

 glass, and the leaves on the southeast sides of the trees were killed, 

 turned brown and dropped off. ' ' The eflect of the prevailing sea 

 winds is not, however, noticeable far from the shore in the pine 

 districts. But the isolated and scattered trees of fields and the 

 woods on the beaches all show it in their unsymmetrical growths. 



Water equalizes the temperature and renders it more ev^en. The 

 winds from the sea are warmer in winter and cooler in summer. 

 The sea breezes of the hot season spring up generally about noon, 

 so that the maximum temperature of the day is in the forenoon, 

 just before the inblowing of the cool sea air. The influence of 

 these sea winds is to temper the extreme heat, to reduce both the 

 range and the mean temperature in the warmer months, and to 

 give a more humid character to the air. 



The sea beaches situated, as they are in New Jersey, with the 

 ocean on one side and the tidal waters on the other, have a climate 

 partaking slightly of the insular type. Barnegat Station is sep- 

 arated from the mainland by four miles of water. There is a note- 

 worthy difference in the winter season between Cape May and other 

 coast stations. It is seen in the difference in theaverage daily min- 

 imum, which at Barnegat and Atlantic City is four to five degrees 

 lower than it is at Cape May. The position of Cape May is more 



"P. 348, I.e. 




632 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



insular than that of Atlantic City or Barnegat. It is warmer in 

 winter than Washington, and its mean daily range of temperature 

 is four degrees less than Norfolk, Va. The range is nearly as low 

 as Cape Lookout in North Carolina, and Key West, New Orleans 

 and Galveston in the Gulf States. Figures show that in the daily 

 range of temperature Cape May compares favorably with our most 

 southern localities. The effect of so high a mean temperature in 

 the spring is to produce crops of vegetables and small fruits quite 

 as early as Portsmouth and Norfolk, Va., and the season is gen- 

 erally a month in advance of the same season in the northern 

 part of the State. 



The mild climate of Cape May appears in the character of its 

 flora. Britton'* says: 



" (1) All the southern counties of New Jersey have a some- 

 what Southern flora, and it seems true that the further south we 

 go the more pronounced does this become. 



" (2) Although Cape May county has never been botanically 

 explored to the extent that discoveries already made should war- 

 rant, yet it has already yielded a number of species of more 

 southern distribution, and, so far as known, is the northern limit 

 of the following six: QEnothera humifiisa Nutt., Diodia virginica L., 

 ConocUiiium, ccelestinum D.C., Galium hispidulum Michx., Fhtchea 

 bifro7is D.C. , Paspalum waUeriamim Schultes. 



" (8) In addition to the above list, it may be stated that there are 

 other species of a Southern character which probabl}'' occur in greater 

 abundance in Cape May County than in any other part of New 

 Jersey." Pinus tcvda of the South has also been recently found 

 near Cape May City. 



Meteorological Kecord. 



The data given in the accompanying tables represent the 

 meteorological record of one year, that of 18i18. The tables are 

 compiled from the ninth annual report of the Board of Direc- 

 tors of the New Jersey Weather Service. 



"Britton, A Preliminary Catalogve of the Flora of yeic Jersey. 




1900.] 



XATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



633 



Temperature, 1898. 



The record for Barnegat Lighthouse is not complete for the 

 year, because no record was made for the months of January, 

 February, June and July. 




634 



PEOCEEDIXGS OP TPIE ACADEMY OF 



[1900. 



ANNUAL MONTHLY SUMMARY FOR THE THREE STATIONS GIVEN 



ABOVE, 



Temperature. 



The date of the last killing frost in spring for Barnegat City in 



1898 was April 8; for Cape May City, April 7, and for Ocean City, 

 April 8. 



The first killing frost in autuniu (1898) occurred at Barnegat 

 City, Cape INIay City and at Ocean City on the same day. October 

 28. The length of the season in days at the several places wjvs as 

 follows: 



Barnegat City, 203 days. 



Ocean City, 208 " 



Cape May City, 204 " 




1900.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



635 




636 proceedings of the academy of [1900. 



The Plant Formations, Their Composition and Physiognomy. 



The various areas which are definitively marked by the character 

 of the vegetation pass in some cases insensibly into each other, so 

 that they overlap or are dove-tailed like wedges, these physio- 

 graphical features being brought about by the sort of topography 

 which prevails in a given area. For example, a mile below the 

 town of Seaside Park the dune complex, almost entirely bare of 

 trees, stretches completely across the beach, which is here about 

 half a mile wide. In making the ecological reconnoissance at 

 the four points chosen for study — namely. Seaside Park on Bame- 

 gat Beach, South Atlantic City on Absecon Beach, Ocean City on 

 Peck's Beach, and Wildwood on Five-mile Beach — the follow- 

 ing belts or zones of the diflferent formations may be given in 

 outline, the exceptions to the typical disposition of the belts or 

 zones being due lo the physiographic changes brought about by the 

 closure of inlets, the drifting of sand, and the wearing action of 

 the waves on tlie beacli front and their scouring action upon the 

 tide marsh: 



I, Sea-strand vegetation. 

 1. Treeless open. 



A. Beach formation. 



(a) Succulent zone (middle beach). 

 Cakile-Annnodenia society at Seaside Park, 



South Atlantic City and Qcean City. 

 Salsola society at Ocean City and Wildwood. 

 Atriplex society at "NVildwood. 



(b) O^]nothera huniifusa zone (upper beach only at 



Wildwood). 



B. Dune formation. 



(a) Ammophila zone at Seaside Park, South Atlantic 



City, Ocean City and not cleai'ly at Wildwood. 



(b) ^lyrica zone at Seaside Park, South Atlantic City, 



Ocean City. 

 (c ) Hudsonia zone, comprising the greater part of the 



dune complex, at Seaside Park only. 

 Rhus radicans-Ampelopsis society at Seaside Park 



and Wildwood. 

 Dune-marsh society at Seaside Park and Ocean 



Citv. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 637 



Baccharis-Rosa society, bordering the dune- 

 marsh society and growing upon the captured 

 slopes of the dunes of the dune complex (Hud- 

 sonia zone), at Seaside Park only. 

 ^. Tree clad (trees and shrubs). 



A. Thicket formation at Seaside Park, South Atlantic (on 



high dune in middle of salt marsh), Ocean City and 

 most luxuriantly at Wild wood, comprising two zonal 

 areas, the second surrounding the following associa- 

 tions (Kearney), or societies: 

 (a) Juniper zone. 

 (6) Zone of mixed vegetation. 



Thicket marsh society at Seaside Park and Wild- 

 wood. 

 Hudsonia society at Seaside Park and Wildwood. 

 Scirpus society at Seaside Park. 

 Cat-tail society at Seaside Park. 

 Marsh Shield-fern society at Seaside Park and 



Wildwood. 

 Osmuuda society at Wildwood. 

 Ptilimnium society at Wildwood. 

 Polygonum society at Wildwood. 



B. Marsh-dune formation at Seaside Park and elsewhere on 



the coast, where isolated rounded hills of sand arise 

 from the centre of the marsh and are covered with a 

 variety of shrubs and occasionally one or two trees, 

 evergreen or deciduous. At South Atlantic City 

 such a dune island exists in the marsh, but its length 

 and the complexity and size of the growth upon it 

 compel us to classify it under 2. A. Thicket forma- 

 tion proper. 

 II. Salt-marsh vegetation. 



A. Tidal -flat formation, covered at exceptionally high 



tides, along the entire coast. 



B. Saline-marsh formation at South Atlantic City and 



Wildwood and many other places back of the 

 beaches. 



C. Converted saline-marsh formation (fresh), I'edeemed 



from the effect of the tidal brackish waters of the 




G38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



bays by the formation of a sandy beach and a low 

 dune along its bay side. This sandy beach and dune 

 completely closes off the maish from salt water, ex- 

 cept where the so-called slues are found which 

 permit the ingress and egress of the tidal water to 

 limited areas of the marsh. Such areas of the 

 marsh, therefore, are covered with vegetation more 

 truly adaptive in character. Such a marsh is found 

 at Seaside Park about 700 feet wide, and from the 

 drier portions of it salt hay is cut periodically. 



III. Bay-strand vegetation (absent where the saline-marsh forma- 



tion exists). 



A. Dune formation as at Seaside Park, where the dune sup- 



ports a variety of plants. This formation one mile 

 below Seaside Park merges itself iuseasibly with the 

 thicket formation proper. In fact, no line of demar- 

 cation between these two formations can be drawn at 

 that point. 



B. Bay-beach formation at the limit of high tide, covered 



with the dead and dried leaves of eel-grass, T a//w- 

 neria spiraliin washed up by the waves. 



IV. Bay-water vegetation. 



(o) The Plankton (not investigated). 



(b) Ruppia zone iu the shallow waters along the 

 eastern shore of the bays (investigated at Sea- 

 side Park). 



(c ) Nereid zone, comprising the algje which grow on 

 the pilings sunk into the sand for landings and 

 as jetties to prevent wave action. These algje 

 exist in considerable abundance, csi>eeially near 

 the inlets and open bays communicating with 

 them, where the salt water of the ocean has 

 full cilect. This zone was not investigated. A 

 number of other zones and societies might be 

 delimited, but the above indicate that a careful 

 study of them would amply repay the ecologist. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 639 



I. Sea-Strand Vegetation. 



1. TREELESS, OPEN FORMATIONS. 



A. Beach Formation. 



The beach formation exists at the several places investigated in 

 several modifications of the typical one, which exists at Seaside 

 Park, N. J. The lower beach is limited by the reach of the 

 higher tides and is marked by the constant shifting and grinding 

 of the particles of sand against each other by wave action. No 

 plants can exist under such trying conditions — the pounding action 

 of the Avaves, the grinding of the beach sand, the desiccating 

 effects of the sun and wind when the beach is exposed at low 

 tide. The middle beach, where driftwood collects, supports a con- 

 siderable number of herbaceous annuals, which show in a striking 

 way their adaptation to unpropitious surroundiiigs. They possess 

 in the extreme a xerophytic character of succulence, and this 

 permits them to exist in a porous soil of drifting sand and within 

 the influence of the salt spray." The mosfc abundant plant of the 

 middle beach in all the localities studied is Cakile edentula (Bigel. ) 

 Hook., the sea blite, with long branching tap-root and jointed, 

 indehiscent, fleshy fruit of two compartments. The leaves of 

 this plant are thick and succulent and thus well adapted to the 

 extreme xerophilous conditions to which beach plants are sub- 

 jected. Associated with this succulent is also another, Ammodeiiia 

 peploides (L. ) Rupr., which grows in clumps, and' is of a dark- 

 green color with thick, fleshy leaves. It forms the so-called 

 annual dunes which are piled up around its succulent stems, 

 remaining as small hillocks of sand, through which this plant pro- 

 trudes, until autumn, when upon the death of the sand-binder 

 the sand is again caught up by the wind and carried away. Cakile 

 edentula (Bigel) Hook, is also instrumental in catching the sand 

 and holding it in the form of embryonic dunes. These two plants 

 are the only ones found commonly on Barnegat Beach at Seaside 

 Park. 



At South Atlantic City, in addition to Cakile and Ammode- 

 nia, which are also found there, grow Salsola kali L., Euphorbia 

 polygonifolia L. and Cenchrus tribuloides L. Salsola kali L, is ex- 



'* For physiological details the reader is referred to Kearney's "The 

 Plant Covering of Ocracoke Island," Contrih. Cf. S. National Ilerbarium, 

 Vol. V, p. 27;5, 1900. 




640 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



treniely xerophytic with succulent stem and leaves and spinous 

 habit. Euphorbia polygonifoUa L., a prostrate herb, possesses 

 latex, which is probably instrumental in reducing transpiration. 

 Cenchrus tribuloides L., of annual habit, depends upon its prickly 

 fruit for its distribution and very existence. It is abundant, as a 

 character plant, at South Atlantic City, along the dune faces in the 

 zone of succulents, and also as a component of the flora in 

 the zones more distantly removed from the ocean front. This is 

 true of this grass both at Ocean City and Wildwood, where it is 

 not conspicuous by its presence on the middle beach. 



The most interesting distribution of plants is met at Wildwood. 

 Here the beach is extremely flat and very wide, trending to the 

 northeast, where apparently it is widest. The lower beach con- 

 sists of sand, packing well together, and when wet presenting a 

 hard, firm, floor-like surface. Just above the ordinary limit of 

 high tide are little hummocks of sand held in place by the stalks 

 of grasses and other herbaceous plants which have been washed 

 up by tidal action. This area of loose sand is succeeded by a line 

 of more elevated sand bordering a tidal depression inside it. 

 Upon this low ridge of sand Salsola kali L. grows iu the greatest 

 abundance, and an inspection indicates that the tide must flow at 

 times between the Salsola patches. On the far side of the tidal 

 pool are found, in association with isolated clumps of the marram 

 grass, Ammophila arenaria (L. ) Link., growths of an annual 

 Atriplex arenaria Nutt. , a chenopodiaceous plant with reddish- 

 colored bushy-branched stem and fleshy leaves. Proceeding up the 

 beach iu a straight line, a wind-swept area tenanted by marram 

 grass and isolated plants of Xanthium Canadense Mill. var. echin- 

 atum (Murr. ) Gray, Euphorbia polygonifoUa L., Sal.sola kali L. 

 (not as a character plant), Sesiiviiim maritimum (Walt.) B. S. P., 

 &nd Strop host y I es helvola (L. ) Britt. , just in flower, trailing as a 

 prostrate vine over the sandy soil, are pjvssed. The only area 

 which merits the name Ammophila zone occupies the portion of the 

 beach adjoining that just described, but the sand grass, Ammophila 

 arenaria (L. ) Link., although abundant here, hardly can be called 

 a zonal plant at present, although it has commenced to build a 

 frontal dune, which when raised above the level of the beach (^a 

 stage which it has not. yet reached) may separate the middle beach 

 from the upper beach sufficiently to merit the application of the 

 zonal name to this area of the Wildwood sea-strand. The sand 




1900.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 641 



grass growing here was found in full flower associated with Am- 

 modenia peploldes (L. ) Rupr. , gathering the sand about it, and 

 Strophostyles helvola (L. ) Britt., creeping out as a radiant plant 

 in all directions. As an introduced stray, the tomato plant, 

 Lycopersieon Lycopersicon (L. ) Karst., was picked up in this area, 

 much depauperate and beaten by the blasts of sand and wind and 

 hardly recognizable except by its odor and the lobed leaves with 

 smaller lobes interspersed in the sinuses. 



The CEnothera humifusa zone, or upper beach, comprises the 

 hollow place in front of the low frontal dune and the seaward 

 face of the dune itself. Here grow in perfect harmony Gerardia 

 purpurea (L.), Strop)hostyles helvola (L. ) Britt. with narrower 

 leaflets, Solidago sempervirens L. with thick leaves, which is found 

 on the lee face of the sea dunes farther northward, Lejitilon 

 canadensis (-b. ) Britt on and CEnothera humifusa Nutt. — the plant 

 which gives name to this interesting assemblage of species. The 

 latter is chosen as a character plant, because Cape May county 

 represents the northern limit of its distribution, which extends to 

 Florida. CEnothera humifusa Nutt. is essentially southern in its 

 range, occurring on the sea beaches of the Southern States. Its 

 presence is proof of the mild climate of Wildwood, which has 

 already been referred to. The lower face of the dune here sup- 

 ports Lactuca canadensis L. and life -everlasting, Anaphalis mar- 

 garitaeea (L. ) Benth. and Hook. 



B, Dune Formation. 



(a) Ammophila Zone. — Upon the top and lee side of the sea 

 dune at Seaside Park, which extends in some places uninter- 

 I'uptedly there for a distance of half a mile, with a uniform height of 

 about 15 feet, and at a uniform distance from the ocean front, 

 grows the best of all sand-binders, Ammophila arenaria (L. ) 

 Link. A perennial dune such as at Seaside Park requires peren- 

 nial dune-formers, which must be also plants which possess the 

 power of growing out into the light when buried in the sand, and 

 of spreading radially by rootstock propagation. These require- 

 ments of a successful dune-former and holder marram grass pos- 

 sesses in the highest degree. Cowles^" gives an exhaustive account 

 of how this grass accomplishes this object so perfectly. Associated 



^^ 1899, Cowles, "Dune Floras of Lake Michigan," Botanical Gazette, p. 

 180. 




642 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1900. 



in a remarkable ecological way with this grass is the sand pea, 

 Lathyrus maritimus (L. ) Bigel., which flourishes with it on the 

 dune summit. It has long been known that with the numerous 

 tubercles on their roots which store up nitrogen, leguminous plants 

 can thrive apace in almost pure sand. The beach pea does this on 

 these porous dunes and not only lives for itself, but upon its death 

 enriches the sandy soil with nitrogenous compounds. The clumps 

 of sand grass growing in immediate proximity to the leguminous 

 perennial herb seizes hold of the nitrogenous products with 

 avidity and becomes correspondingly thrifty, denser in growth and 

 of a darker green color than the same grass in the neighborhood, 

 growing outside of the benign influence of Lathyrm maritimus 

 (L. ) Bigel. That the beach pea is not in danger of extinction, 

 but has a firm hold upon the dune, will be shown by a close in- 

 spection of the following statistics giving the result of the pollina- 

 tion of the flowers. Ten plants were chosen and a careful enu- 

 meration was made of the fruits and seeds produced. 



Fruit and Seed Production Lathyrus maritimus (L. ) Bigel. 



a = abortive seeds ; p = pierced ; e = eaten ; A, B, etc. = fniit clusters. 



At South Atlantic City the frontal dune is very much broken 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 643 



up into many summits, upon Avhich and the lee side Ammophila 

 <iremiria (L. ) Link, grows as the principal character plant. This 

 is also true of the lower dunes at Ocean City, which are nowhere 

 so bold or prominent as at South Atlantic City. The Ammophila 

 zone at Wildwood, as previously stated, is doubtfully referred to 

 as an area between the middle and upper beaches and constituting 

 in reality the inner part of the middle beach. It seems apparent 

 that a dune is just beginning to form at that point of the beach, 

 and will grow much more rapidly as the timber is removed by 

 the march of so-called improvements which threaten the beauty of 

 Wildwood Beach. 



(6) Myrica Zone. — Just behind the high dune which faces the 

 ocean and on its lee slope, protected by the top of the dune, is 

 met an extensive belt of Myrica cerifera L. , which occurs normally 

 at Seaside Park, South Atlantic City and Ocean City, but is 

 absent at Wildwood. It occurs typically at Seaside Park and 

 also clearly defined at South Atlantic City, but at Ocean City it is 

 broken up into two parallel areas behind the second and third 

 series of dunes. Normally it should occur behind the first or 

 frontal dune. Isolated specimens of Myrica cerifera L. are found 

 in the thicket formation, but as far as inspection showed it does 

 not grow as a zonal plant. Associated with the waxberry bushes 

 at Seaside Park is the ubiquitous sand grass (^Ammophila), an occa- 

 sional golden-rod (Solidago sempervirens L. ) and a prostrate growth 

 of Euphorbia polygonifolia L., but that is all. At Ocean City 

 Strophostyles helvola (L. ) Britten, Panicum virgatum L., Baccharis 

 halimijolia L., Ithtis radicans L. are mixed together by reason of 

 the parallelism of the three dunes which occur there, and Myrica, 

 therefore, becomes an element of the dune complex. In becoming 

 an element in the dune complex (Hudsonia zone), Myrica cerifera 

 L. has also become a component of the Rhus radicans-Ampe- 

 lopsis society of the classification, and consequently it surrounds 

 typical marsh plants, such as Kosteletskya vlrginica (L.) A. Gray, 

 Hibiscus moscheutos L. , Sabbatia stellaris Pursh., Ptilimnium 

 capillaceum (Michx. ) Hollick, Scii-piut debilisYnrsh.., and the like, 

 composing the dune-marsh society.'* 



(c) Hudsonia Zone — the Dune Complex. — This zone is of espe- 



^'This mixing of the several societies by the intrusion of the Waxberry is 

 further proof of the difficulty of a strict classification. 




644 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



cial interest. The topograohy is kaleidoscopic. The dunes are con- 

 stantly changing their shape, being blown away on one side and 

 built up on the other. The hollows between them are filled up. an.d 

 new valleys are scooped out by the resistless action of the wind. 

 This is true of this belt along the entire New Jersey coast, where 

 it is a dominant feature of the landscape, but the change is not so 

 rapid in some places as in others. Some of the dune complexes 

 change very slowly, others more rapidly ; some, it may be, have 

 become stationary. While there is a general advance of the com- 

 plex as a whole in the direction of the prevailing winds, individual 

 portions are advancing in all dii*ections in which winds ever blow. 

 All stages in the life-history of a dune may be seen — the begin- 

 ning, the climax, the destruction. Here and there great hollows 

 are formed, which reach down almost to the water level. Here 

 and theie vegetation has obtained a foothold on the complex, thus 

 capturing such portions and forming them into established dunes. 

 The most striking feature of the dune complex, then, is its topo- 

 graphic diversity. At Seaside Park, the dune complex extends 

 from the limits of the Myrica zone already defined to the Juniper 

 zone of the typical thicket formation. In it are found troughs 

 running at all angles with the main troughs in the direction of the 

 influential winds. The dune complex exists in all the places 

 visited, but its vegetable covering is different. At South Atlantic 

 City it does not exist ; at Ocean City it is an area of established 

 dunes clothed with a variety of plants; at Wildwood it is a nar- 

 row area of a low frontal dune and a hollow immediately behind 

 it, encroached upon by tree growth, and is, therefore, not clearly 

 demarcated at either of the places last mentioned. 



At Seaside Park, where it typically exists, there is not an estab- 

 lished series of dunes, but the change is a slow one, motion being 

 arrested by the character plant, Hudsonia iomoifosa Nutt., which 

 forms clumps or cespitose clusters closely set together on the top and 

 sometimes the slopes of the slowly moving dunes. This plant, 

 Avhich is so characteristic and definitive zonally speaking, is densely 

 tufted, intricately branched, matted and hoary-pubescent with 

 densely imbricated and appressed leaves. Each clump is separ- 

 ated from its neighbor by a narrow channel of sand, so that to the 

 eye the belt has a hummocky appearance, such as to give it a 

 desert aspect, as so Avell illustrated in Schimj^er's Pjianzen- 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 645 



geographie auf Physiologischer Grundlage, fig. 359, opposite p. 

 658; fig. 375, p. 671. The common names, beach heather and 

 poverty grass, are Avell chosen, and give expression, on the one 

 hand, to the appearance of the plant itself, and, on the other, to 

 its growth as influenced by surrounding conditions. Associated 

 with this low-growing perennial herb are found Solidago sempervi- 

 rens L. , Rhus radlcans L,, trailing over the ground and with an 

 etiolated appearance, expressive of its struggle for supremacy, 

 Linum medium (Planch.) Britton, Lechea maritima Leggett and 

 others, such as Ampelopsis qulnquefolia Michx. , which is an occa- 

 sional intruder on the more established dunes." However, along 

 the geologic shore line of an old inlet which was gradually filled in 

 and converted into marsh, a line of dunes stretches from the ocean 

 to the bay front, forming a dune complex at right angles to the main 

 one, which at Seaside Park runs parallel to the seashore. This 

 dune complex is nearly stationary; even more so than the main 

 complex, because lying to the north of the thicket formation, 

 which it bounds in that direction ; and the dunes are covered with 

 beach heather to an extent which makes it the dominant plant of 

 the transverse dune complex.^* Upon this transversely placed 

 Iludsonia belt exist isolated trees of the following species in 

 considerable numbers, but nowhere growing together, except it 

 may be in companies of twos or threes, usually, however, standing 

 alone: Quercus ilicifolia Wang. ( Q. nana (Marsh.) Sarg. ) is a 

 small tree of dense growth; Ilex opaca Ait. is strong-growing and 

 dark green in color; Quercus phellos L., the willow oak, forms a 

 dwarf tree about four feet high; Vaccinium corymbosum L. , with 

 smooth leaves, and Vaccinium atrococcum (A. Gray) Heller, with 

 densely pubescent leaves and gnarled form, both loaded with 

 berries, were found to exist here, mth Kalmia angustifolia L., in 

 fruit, and Rubus canadensis L. trailing at their base. ' Pinus 

 rigida Mill, also is a component element of the transverse dune 

 complex, growing with the sassafras on the dune slopes and drier 



^'' Prunus maritima L., the beach plum, forms by its upward growth 

 small dunes, comparatively steep. It usually grows in isolated patches on 

 the slopes or summits of the dunes, near the centre or inside margin of the 

 dune complex. 



^^ In the subsequent descriptions of this transverse dune complex the geo- 

 logic beach of the old inlet will be spoken of in these terms as it exists one 

 mile below the town of Seaside Park. 



42 




646 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



dune hollows. Juniperus virginiana L. is also abundant here. The 

 landscape has, therefore, somewhat of a park-like aspect. 



The dune complex (not Hudsonia zone) at Ocean City is a suc- 

 cession of dunes and dune hollows. Upon the top of the dunes 

 and covering their slopes to some extent the marram grass, Ammo- 

 j)hila, has almost full sway, but occasionally Sieglingia purpurea 

 (Walt.) Kuntze, Strophostyles helvola (L. ) Britton and Solidago 

 sempervirens L. are associated with the above-mentioned grass. In 

 the hollows are found Scirpus debilis Pursh. , Strophostyles hel- 

 vola (L. ) Britton, Panicum virgatum L. , Cyperus XuttalliiTlddj, 

 Gerardia purpurea L. , with Myrica cerifera L. and Baccharis 

 halimifolia L. growing upon the slopes of the sand hills and the 

 drier depressions of the dune complex. The dune complex at 

 Wildwood is a narrow belt (50 feet wide) of established dunes. 

 It might be said to belong to the thicket formation, but for the 

 fact that it is open. Upon the low dune, 4 or 5 feet high, flourish 

 Rosa Carolina Ij. , Bhus radicans L., Sieglingia purpurea (Walt.) 

 Kuntze, Phytolacca decandra L., and dead, badly wind-swept 

 cedar trees. Immediately behind the dune front Ampelopsis qui7i- 

 quefoliu Michx., Panicum virgatum L., Andropogon virginicus L., 

 in clumps, and Monarda punctata L. make up the list of con- 

 spicuous plants of the narrow dune complex of Wildwood Beach. 

 Several isolated trees, Juniperus virginiana L. , Quercus minor 

 (Marsh.) Sargent, of dwarf growth stand here, and form the 

 vanguard of the tree growth which so completely covers the 

 higher portion of Five-mile Beach. 



The dune-marsh society is typically developed at Seaside Park, 

 and to a less extent at Ocean City. The plants which form it 

 inhabit the depressions of the dunes, which reach to water level. 

 The species, therefore, associated together as a happy family are 

 essentially of a marsh habit. The dune marshes at Seaside Park 

 are somewhat diflereut in chai-acter in ditf^erent localities and under 

 varying surroundings. In one such marsh situated near the Island 

 Beach Life Saving Station grow Ptilimuium C(ipill<iceum (Michx.) 

 Rollick, Polygonum hydropipcroides Miohx., Hypericum mufilum 

 L., Scirpus debilis Pui-sh., Carduus spinossissimus Walt., Gyro.<- 

 tachys cermut (L. ) Kuntze, Teucrium canadensr L., while as a 

 bordering growth on the dune slopes of the marshy depressions 

 occurs the Baccharis-Ro?a societv of our classification. Ecologi- 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCE3 OF PHILADELPHIA. 647 



cally the Baccharis- Rosa society comprises three dominant species: 

 Rosa atrolina L. , Baccharis halimifolia L. , Rhus copallina L. 



The marshy hollows of the transverse dune complex at Seaside 

 Park resemble, pbysiognomically, a typical pine barren swamp in 

 its constituent elements. Such a one, explored, yielded Juncus 

 effusus L. , Panicum amarum Ell., Drosera filiformis Eaf. , the 

 cranberry, Oxycoccus macroearpus (Ait.), Pers., as the character 

 plants of such situations, while near by, as already mentioned, 

 grow other pine-barren forms such as Sassafras Sassafras (L. ) Karst. , 

 Quercusnana (Marsh.) Sarg., QuercuspheUosJ^., Vaccinium corym- 

 bosum 1j., Vacchiium atrococcum (A. Gray) Heller, Kalmia augiisti- 

 Jolia L., and Piniis rigida L. The character of the dune-marsh 

 growth of the dune complex at Ocean City has already been de- 

 scribed, and it is therefore not necessary to consider it further in 

 •detail. 



2. TREE-CLAD STRAND. 



A. Thicket Formation. 



The thicket formation developed typically at Seaside Park and 

 Ocean City reaches its greatest proportions at Wildwood. At 

 South Atlantic City it covers a long, high dune, which is situated, 

 ^s an island, in the middle of the salt marsh which everywhere 

 surrounds it. It will, therefore, be described in sequence with 

 the others, although it is misplaced, zonally speaking. 



One mile below the town of Seaside Park the beach thicket 

 covers a considerable area, many acres in extent and quite impen- 

 etrable in some places. It is fronted by a belt or zone of juniper 

 trees, which are wind-tossed and gnarled by their long struggle with 

 the elements. 



(a) Juniper Zone. — The vanguard consists of cedars, which 

 never rise above the dunes of the dune complex upon which they 

 grow. Young trees in the dune hollows are spire-shaped, but upon 

 reaching the general level of the dune summit they become flat- 

 topped, incline in the direction opposite to the prevailing wind, 

 and become gnarled and weather-beaten. The cedars of the zone 

 proper form an almost pure growth in front of the main thicket, 

 grow much larger and seem 1o be more independent of their sur- 

 roundings. Several well-marked varieties of this tree are met 




648 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



with. The young trees have sharp, aculeate leaves, widely diver- 

 gent and loosely set on the twigs. In color they are either dark 

 green or yellowish green ; the dark green specimens have longer 

 leaves than the light green ones, the twigs of which are more 

 elongated and widely spreading. Spire-shaped trees of the van- 

 guard have a close growth, the leaves are closely appressed and 

 overlapping, and are obtuse. The young twigs are essentially 

 similar in appearance, but more elongated. Another spire-shaped 

 tree of the same size and from the same locality showed leaves of 

 the closely appressed type on the older twigs, but more acuminate, 

 while on the younger twigs the primary leaves were large acumi- 

 nate, as were also the smaller appressed leaves of the same region. 

 This tree had a bluish green cast of foliage. The wind-swept 

 trees show the struggle they wage, not only in their gnarled, 

 inclined and flat-topped growth, but also in the closeness of the 

 twigs, the appressed condition of the leaves, which are small, 

 short and blunt. The younger twigs are also extremely abbre- 

 viated, as if the tree had to conserve all of its energies for the 

 apparently unequal struggle. The Juniper zone, clearly defined, 

 is not met with at South Atlantic City, Ocean City or Wild wood, 

 and is apparently absent from those places. 



(&) Zone of Mixed Vegetation. — This at one mile below the 

 town of Seaside Park is a veritable jungle, composed of tree% 

 shrubs and lianes, broken there by dry or swampy open glades. 

 The thicket is impenetrable in a number of places owing to the 

 thick growth, and to Smilax rotundifolia L. , covered with spines, 

 and Ampelopsis quinquefolia Michx., which grow as chrabing 

 vines, looping themselves from limb to limb and from tree to tree. 

 The most notable species entering into the formation are Junipenis 

 virginiana L. , Ilex opaca Ait., Iva frutescens L. along the margins, 

 Quercus nana (Marsh.) Sarg. , Rosa Carolina L. , Pinm ricjida ^lill., 

 Mhus copallina L., and the climbing form of Bhus radicans L. 

 It is worthy of note that here the holly trees are larger, more open 

 and provided with larger leaves than the trees of the exposed, 

 wind-swept transverse dune complex. 



The thicket at South Atlantic City covers the high insular dune 

 and the hollows and minor dunes behind it. The crest of the 

 dune is probably 30 or 35 feet above the level of the salt marsh, 

 and the hollow behind it is correspondingly depressed. Pinus 




1900.] XATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 649 



rigida Mill., Quercus minor (Maisli. ) Sarg. , Cassia chamcecrista 

 L., Vitis cesticali-s Michx. , Viburnum dentatum L., Juniperus 

 virginiana L. of three varieties are found, with Monarda punctata 

 L. on the front face and summit of the dune, while in thu valley 

 behind grow Quercus digitata (Marsh. ") Sudw., Ilex opaca Ait., 

 one form with spiny margined leaves of the usual type and another 

 with spineless entire leaves, revolute margins, smaller in size and 

 ovate acuminate, Pinus rigida Mill., densely filled witn old cones, 

 Sassafras Sassafras (L. ) Karst. , and pexsimm.on,Diospyros virginiana 

 L. These trees reach a large size, but when they reach the height 

 of the dune summit become flat-topped and wind-swept. The 

 ground of the valley is open, almost entirely destitute of smaller 

 growth, except the smaller trees of the species just mentioned, and 

 the bracken. Pterin aquilina L. The thicket at Ocean City is 

 formed of Prunus maritima L., which occupies the front of it, 

 Ilex opaca Ait., Juniperus virginiana Ld., Quercus nana (Marsh.) 

 Sarg,, Hhus copallina L., Smilax rotundifolia L. , Ampelopsis 

 quinquefolia Michx., and Viti-s cestivalis Michx., growing upon 

 the open sandy places in front, and among the trees a number of 

 herbaceous plants flourish, such as Monarda punctata L., Cenchrus 

 tribuloides L. , etc. 



Wildwood forest, using a dignified term for a remarkable growth 

 of trees and shrubs, is part of the thicket formation on Five-mile 

 Beach, constituted by the association of the following arbbrescent 

 species: Juniperus virginiana L., Prunus maritima W?(ng. , Quercus 

 oninor (Mai'sh. ) Sarg., Quercus albalj. x Q. minor (Marsh.) Sarg., 

 Myrica cerifera L. , Sassafras Sassafras ( L. ) Karst. , Nyssa sylvatiea 

 Marsh., Magnolia virginiana L., Acer rubrum L. , Prunus serotina 

 Ehrh., Quercus digitata (Marsh.) Sudw., aud Vitis Labrusca L. 

 The vine which grows here reaches a foot in diameter, and is a 

 true liane. Upon the ground, usually in the sandy open places, 

 abound Cassia chamcecrista L., Strophostyles helvola {Li.) Britton, 

 Solidago odora Ait., Solidago fistulosa ]\Iill., Panicum amarum 

 Ell., Eupatorium hyssopifoliumlj., Willughbcea (Mikania) scandens 

 (L. ) Kuntze, Lespedeza capitata Michx., Lycopus sinuatus Ell., 

 Lippia lanceolata Michx., Ambrosia artemisicefolia L., near the 

 railroad, Helianthus giganteus L. , Meibomia 2^(f^^*culata (L,) 

 Kuntze, along the railroad, with many other species, most native, 

 some introduced. 




650 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900- 



There are many peculiar growths in this forest area, due, it 

 seems, to a combination of causes. Vigor and density of growth 

 are due to a mild, moist climate and a soft, moist soil, which 

 Wildwood is known to possess. Strong winds and the work of 

 cattle, no doubt, in part account for the close, jagged growths 

 which a''e common there. Cattle for many years ran wild on this 

 island, which two hundred and thirty-six years ago Charles II 

 of England granted to his brother James, Duke of York, 

 March 12, 1664. The last of these wild herds were shot only a 

 few years ago. They may hav'^e roamed unmolested for two hun- 

 dred years since the great native chiefs Hohan Topatrapanning, 

 Hohan Kepanectamto, Takamony and Mothant Takomis by deed 

 perfected . the title in the white grantees of the king, March 30, 

 1688. Or they may have been left by the fifty-two Avhalers who 

 lived here one hundred and thirty-five years ago, or be the descend- 

 ants of the domestic cattle of the shipbuilders who built craft 

 here to resist the British. However they came here, they without 

 doubt influenced the character of the growth by eating leaves 

 and twigs and by crushing the young growth under foot. Holly 

 disports itself peculiarly. It is not uncommon to find two hollies 

 grown together, or a limb of one grown fast to another holly, or 

 one limb uniting with another limb of the same tree, or joining the 

 trunk to form the so-called " jug-handles."" In one instance two 

 hollies are embracing and slowly killing a red cedar, several of the 

 dead limbs of which have been surrounded by the trunks of the 

 hollies. Here are countless examples of tree contention. The 

 limbs of the hollies are matted and zigzag. The trees are full of 

 limb-holes, favorite nesting-places for flickers, which, with the 

 robins, are potent agents in tree distribution. This forest was at 

 one time very dense and the underbrush a mass of green briars. 

 Freak trees are abundant. The "Siamese Twins," two monster 

 hollies, grow up to a height of sixty-five feet. About fifteen feet 

 from the ground, yetu's ago, a branch nearly a foot in diameter 

 grew out from one tree and into the other, solidly joining them 

 together. A short distance from the curiously joined holly trees 

 grows "Crookedness," a cedar tree which has assumed a most 

 fantastic shape. ' ' Before Columbus " is a huge cedar tree nearly 



"1894, Gifford, "Report ou Forestry," Annual Heport of X. J. State 

 Geologist, 1894, p. 263. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 651 



three feet in diameter, fifty feet high, with gnarled branches. 

 " Methusaleh " is another huge cedar disputing with " Before Co- 

 lumbus " for preeminence as a wonder. " Contwisted " is a name 

 given by painted signboard to two large trees with trunks one and 

 one-half feet in diameter, twisted about each othei'. " Laocoon " 

 appropriately describes an oak tree supporting an enormous liane 

 or grapevine, Vitis Labriisca L. The stem of this liane is as 

 thick as a man's leg. Another liane denominated " Giant Grape- 

 vine " is fully one foot in diameter. A magnolia tree growing up 

 through the hollow trunk of an old cedar is another noteworthy 

 sight. A wild cherry is called the " arch or rainbow tree," its 

 trunk assuming the shape of a perfect half-circle. Many of the 

 branches of the trees have been removed for rustic work. Some 

 perfectly represent the letters of the alphabet, as x, w, z, i and o.^' 

 Many of the larger trees, especially the red maples, are draped 

 with long festoons of the lichen, Usnea barbata, reminding one 

 of the live oaks of the South draped with the gray Florida moss, 

 Tillandsia usneoides L. 



Within the area of the thicket formation are open spaces repre- 

 senting the depressions of the surface, as well as more elevated 

 sandy glades. Several well-marked associations of plants, or soci- 

 eties, take possession of these spaces, varying in ecological compo- 

 sition according to the ph3^siography. 



At Seaside Park (one mile below town) several such societies 

 can be delimited. Near the ocean front adjoining the old hotel, 

 long since abandoned, is a hollow accommodating the cranberry 

 and Drosera intermedia Hayne. Somewhat farther back is the 

 Marsh Shield-fern society, composed almost entirely of dense 

 growths of Dryopterls Thelypteris (L. ) A. Gray, surrounded by 

 jungles of Juniper, Baccharis, etc. A third hollow supports in 

 its damp, marshy soil a dominant growth of the sedge Scirpus 

 debilis Pursh. , which forms the '* Scirpus society." A fourth 

 depression, removed some distance from the other, is a favorable 

 place for the Hibiscus society, composed of three character plants. 

 Hibiscus moscheutos L. , Scirpus debilis Pursh., and Dryopteris 

 Thelypteris (L. ) A. Gray. Still another open space, much wetter 

 than the others mentioned, forms a nidus for Typha latifolia L., 



^° Forest Leaves, Vll, pp. 67 and 92. Two articles describing the remark- 

 able tree growths on Five-mile Beach. 




652 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



the margin consisting of drier ground ha\'ing the marsh shield- 

 fern, Dryo2)teris Thelypteris (L. ) A. Gray (Cat-tail society). 

 The higher open sand glades are covered with clumps of Hudsonia 

 tomentosa Nutt. Such an assemblage might be denominated the 

 Hudsonia society. 



This diversity is the more striking when one considers the small 

 number of plants which enter into the composition of the different 

 associations. The number of possible societies which might exist 

 under the varying conditions of dune and thicket life can be 

 determined mathematically by the rules of permutations and com- 

 binations, thus: If we have 10 plants which we wish to combine 

 into different societies, using 6 plants for each society, we find by 

 the rule of combinations that theoretically 210 such societies are 

 possible. If we have 8 plants, taken 4 at a time, 70 societies are 

 possible; if 6 plants, taken 3 at a time, theoretically 20 associations 

 are within the possibility. This number of societies does not exist 

 in a state of nature, because, although within a mathematical possi- 

 bility, yet specific characters, the condition of the soil, air and 

 illumination all prevent the theoretical realization of the mathe- 

 matical expression of the possibility of such combinations taking 

 place. 



Occurring in the jungle of Wildwood are a number of well- 

 defined societies classified as follows, with the names of their com- 

 ponent character plants: 



OsMUNDA SOCIETY = Osmunda rec/alis L., Scirpiis sj)., Lnpatiens 

 bijiora Walt., Lobelia cardinalis L. 



Ptilimnium bocibty = Ptilimnium capillaceum (Michx.) Hol- 

 lick. 



OxYPOLis SOCIETY = OxypoHs rigidus (L. ) Britton, Hibi^cu^ 

 moscheutos L. 



Polygonum society, along the borders of a swampy area = 

 Polygonum lapathifoliion L. 



The following species also occur in the thicket formation of 

 Wildwood, but from the notes taken it is impossible to place them 

 in their proper association: Asclepias pulchnt Ehrh. , Coma 

 chamceo'isla L., almost pure, Dryopteris Thelyptei'is (L. ") A. Gray, 

 Triademim virginicum (L. ) Raf. , Jtmcus acitminaius Michx., 

 Carex liipulina Muhl., Cyperus strigosus L. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP I HILADELPHIA. 653 



£. Marsh-dune Formation. 



This formation consists of rounded hills of sand, which arise 

 from the centre of the salt marsh, are covered with a variety of 

 shrubs and occasionally one or two trees. At Seaside Park, such 

 elevated patches of sand support the following plant species: 

 Prunus maritima Wang., JBaccharis halimifolia L. , Iva frutescens 

 L. , Rosa humilis lucida Ehrh., Rhus radicans L., Junijierus 

 virginiana L., Rhxis copallina L. , Myrica eerifera L., and some 

 herbaceous plants, as Achillea millefolium L., Eiqjatorium rotundi- 

 folium L. 



II. Salt-marsh Vegetation. 



A. Tidal-flat Formation (not studied). 



B. Saline-marsh Formation. 



The saline marsh at South Atlantic City Avas the only marsh of 

 this class visited on the New Jersey coast, and nothing in a com- 

 parative way can be said of this formation, as it exists on the New 

 Jersey coast in general. Most of the species collected show a 

 xerophytic habit. Salicornia herbacea L., Tissa marina (L. ) 

 Britton, Limonium carolinianum (Walt.) Britton, Juncus scirpoidea 

 Lam., Jiincus Gerardi Loisel, Spartina patens (Ait.) Muhl. , Dis- 

 tichlis spicata (L. ) Greene and Sabbatia stellaris Pursh. are all 

 components of the vegetation of the South Atlantic City salt 

 marsh. In the general list at the end of the paper other species 

 inhabitants of the New Jersey saline marshes will be given, but 

 they are excluded from the descriptive portion, because they were 

 not observed by the writer, and nothing can, therefore, be said of 

 their ecological relationships. In the near future an appendix will 

 be issued giving an account of the peculiar salt-marsh zones of 

 the New Jersey coast. 



C. Converted Saline-marsh Formation. 



Formation C. consists of marsh which has been redeemed from 

 tidal salt water by the formation of a sandy beach and a low 

 dune along its bay side. The low dune owes its origin to the 

 western winds Avhich blow over the wide and shallow bays behind 

 the beach. This dune rises usually to a height of two or three 




654 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [L900. 



feet and is unbroken, as it runs parallel to the bay shore. The 

 marsh proper has been raised above the level of high tide by 

 the blowing in of sand uniformly over its entire surface, and by 

 the collection of humus in the soil by the decay of the vegetable 

 covering. In very dry weather this marsh can be traversed at 

 Seaside Park in any direction without wetting the feet ; but when 

 a rainy spell sets in, it becomes flooded with two or three inches of 

 fresh water, which in ordinary seasons remains constantly on the 

 surface, forming a shallow swamp. Even if the surface is not 

 flooded, one's feet sink into the surface of the marsh sufficiently 

 for the water to penetrate to the interior of the shoes. 



The list of plants found here comprise the following species, 

 none of which show any remarkable xerophytic adaptation, except 

 such as is coincident with a marsh life anywhere : 

 Panicum amarum Ell. Sabhatia stellari.s Pursh. ' 



Panicwn pro lifer um lyd,m. Sabbatia ktnceolata (Walt.) T. 



Rhyncosphora g lomerata (Ij.) and G. 



Vahl. Gerardia purpurea L. 



Juncus Gerardi Lois. Hypericum canadense L. 



Verbena hastata Ti. Triadenum virginicum (E. ) 



Limonium Carolinian urn (Walt.) Raf. 



Britton. Drosera intermedia Hayne. 



Gyrostachys cernua (lj.)K.untze. Kosteletshya virginica (L. ) A. 

 Plilimmum,capiUaceum(^^Uchyi.) Gray, Very commom as iso- 



HoUick. lated plants, never growing in 



Asclepias pulchra Ehrh. ecological groups. 



This last malvaceous plant, common farther south, seems to hold 

 its own with the other components of the converted saline-marsh 

 formation, as the following statistical table shows : 



STATISTICS OF FRUIT AND SEED PRODUCTION OF KOSTELETSKYA 

 VIRGINICA, GRAY." 



The plants for this enumeration were gathered in the salt marshes 

 at Seaside Park, N. J. 



The ratio of the perfect to the abortive seeds is given. 



'^ 1898, Harshberger, " Statistical Information Concerning the Production 

 of Fruits and Seeds in Certain Plants," Contrib. Bot. Lab. Unic. of Pa., 

 Vol. II, p. 102. 




1900.] 



XATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



655 





Plant 1 5 

 2 14 



5 



5 

 1:3 



5 

 3:1 



4 



CAPSULE NUMBER. 



5 

 3 

 5 

 5 



54:1 

 5 5 



3:2 

 5 

 5 

 4 

 5 

 4 



1:3 

 5 



53:2 51:4 50:5 

 54:1 4 5j o| 5 

 42:21 3l 52:3,4:1 



13 



Ip. 



4;3:2| 



4:1' 



4 2 : 2 

 5' 5 



15:16 17 



4 2 p. 



18 



53:2 

 5 5 



20 21 



Hibiscus moscheutos L. forms societies over extensive areas to 

 the exclusion of most other plants. This plant grows abundantly 

 at Seaside Park, on the west side of the railroad at Fourteenth 

 avenue, covering several acres, and when in full flower is a 

 remarkable sight worth a long journey to see. The large bell- 

 shaped flowers, three and four inches across, are of a bright pink 

 or white color, through albinism. The plants grow so thickly 

 that at a distance the meadows seem one mass of color, and this 

 predominance is due to the large nnmber of seeds produced. 




656 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1900. 



STATISTICS OP FRUIT AND SEED PRODUCTION OF HIBISCDS 

 MOSCHEUTOS, L.^' 



The ripe capsules on a number of plants of this species were 

 counted in 1894 at Seaside Park, N. J., where it grows abun- 

 dantly in the salt-water marshes. The results statistically are 

 displayed in the subjoined table (p =: pierced by larvae) : 



The slues at Seaside Park, vrhere at every high tide the brackish 

 waters of the bay pass into a channel leading to a lower part of 

 the meadow, are breeding places for mosquitoes and the haunts of 

 the mud turtle. Along their edges grow Baccharis haHmifvlia L., 

 Iva frutescens L. and Scirpiui robtistus Pursh., the salt-marsh 

 bulrush, and floating upon the surface of the water a mass of 

 Scirpus nanus Spreng. torn away by tidal action from the under- 

 mined bank. 



III. Bay-strand Vegetation. 



A. Bay-dune Formation. 



The dune along the bay at Seaside Park has, as said before, 

 been formed by the action of western winds in piling up the sand 

 along the bay front. It consists of loose sand, and upon its top 

 and slopes flourish a considerable number of plants found nowhere 



*'^ Harshberger, J.c.,p. 105. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 657 



else on Barnegat Beach. These peculiar plants are therefore of 

 ecological interest. One mile below Seaside Park on the bay side, 

 opposite the Island Beach Life Saving Station, the bay dune and 

 its vegetation merges itself insensibly with the thicket formation 

 proper. In fact, no line of demarcation can be drawn at that 

 point, where the height of the dune rises four or five feet above 

 tide level. The bay dune supports, among other plants, Baccharis 

 halimifoUa L., Iva frutescens L., Teucrium eanadense L. , Ammo- 

 phila arenaria (L. ) Link which binds the sand, but is not a char- 

 acter plant, Rhus radicans L. , with common prolification of the 

 inflorescence, Rosa humilis Marsh., an extremely spinous form, 

 and Convolvulus sepium L. trailing over the ground and climbing 

 up over the higher plants. 



B. Bay-beach Formation. 



This formation and its ecological constitution was studied only 

 at Seaside Park. At exceptionally high tides the whole beach is 

 subject to tidal action, but ordinarily, high-water mark is removed 

 several feet from the limit of vegetation. Along Bai-negat Bay 

 large quantities of eel-grass, Vallisneria spiralis L., is washed 

 ashore. At low-tide mark it is still green, but at high-tide mark 

 it has become dry, hay-like, and of a chocolate-brown color. The 

 supply is derived from the fresh-water rivers which empty into 

 Barnegat Bay. The dried pJaut is gathered by the cartload and 

 spread upon graded areas to prevent the action of the wind upon 

 the sand. The high beach, out of reach of ordinary tides, sup- 

 ports the following plants: Amdranthxis retroflexus L. , Suceda 

 linearis var. ramosa S. Wats., Chenopodium album L. , Salsola. 

 kali L., Atriplex hastata L, Cakile edentula{ Bigel.) Hook., 

 Xanihium eanadense MiU., Erechtites hieracifolia (L. ) Raf. and 

 SpaHina patens (Ait.) Muhl., which is extremely abundant. All 

 of these are xerophytes and are mostly succulents, provided in this 

 way against the danger of death by transpiration. The only 

 plant of doubtful xerophytic habit is Erechtites hieracifolia (L.) 

 Raf. Its morphological appearance belies the possibility of its 

 occurrence on this beach, constantly bathed by salt water — it is 

 true somewhat diluted by the fresh water of the rivers, but never- 

 theless strongly saline. 




658 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



IV. Bay-water Vegetation. 



(a) The Plankton (not investigated). 



(&) Ruppia Zone. 



Ruppia maritima L. grows in the salt and brackish waters of 

 Barnegat Bay, just beyond the bay-beach wave action. The 

 plant is anchored in the sandy bottom, and at low tide floats in 

 about twelve to eighteen inches of water. It is a graceful plant, 

 as it moves backward and forward by wave action. The pollen 

 from the two naked flowers of the spike is discharged, as geniculate, 

 cylindrical grains, which float to the surface, and are carried by 

 the water to the pistillate flowers with sessile, peltate stigmas, 

 which now reach the surface at the end of a coiled peduncle and 

 are ready to receive the pollen carried by the wind. After fertili- 

 zation, the fruit which begins to form is drawn below the surface of 

 the water by the coiling peduncle. 



(c) Nereid Zone (not investigated), comprising those algae 

 attached to the piles of landings or jetties, especially in the neigh- 

 borhood of the inlets. 



This survey endeavors to present the fundamental facts concern- 

 ing the zonal distribution of the New Jersey strand plants and 

 their ecological relationship. A more detailed inspection of the 

 entire coast would doubtless reveal other peculiarities of the sea- 

 beach flora, but it is believed and hoped that the descriptive account 

 given above presents an outline sketch of the more important 

 facts relating to the sand-strand vegetatiou of New Jersey. 



Piiyto-Geography. 



The affinities of the New Jersey coast flora may be briefly 

 summed up by presenting in the following list the range of some 

 of the character plants which have been referred to in the above 

 ecological description. Of the total number of species of plants 

 collected, 228 in number, 5 are pteridophytes, 2 conifers, 66 

 monocotyledons, and 155 dicotyledons, as compared with 135 

 plants collected by Kearney on Ocracoke Island, N. C. 



1. The following plants of the New Jersey stiand flora have 

 been collected on Presque Isle, Lake Erie:" 

 Ammophila arenaria (L. ) Link. Lathyrus maritimus (L. ) Bigel. 



^'Porter, T. C, Rai'e Plants of Southeastern Fennsylvania, Mch., 1900. 




1900.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPH/A. 



659 



Sieglingia purpurea (Walt.) 



Ktze. 

 Cakile edentula (Bigel. ) Hook. 



2. The dunes of Lake Michigan" are occupied by the following 

 Atlantic coast plants : 



Eiqjhorbia polygonifolia L. 

 Strophostyles helvola (L ) Britt. 

 Hibiscus moscheutos L. 



Cakile edentula (Bigel. ) Hook. 

 Euphorbia polygonifolia L. 

 Ammophila arenaria (L. ) Link. 

 Polygonum ramossissimum Michx. 

 Lathyrus maritimus (L. ) Bigel. 



3. Species of plants found on the New Jersey coast and ranging 

 southward to Xorth Carolina and Florida : 



Hudsonia tomentosa Nutt. 

 Rhus copallina L. 

 Lespedeza capitata Michx. 

 Monar da punctata L. 



Juniperus virginiana L. 



Typha latifolia L. 



Spartina patens (Ait. ) Muhl. 



Distichlis spicata (L. ) Greene. 



Cyperus nntlallii Eddy. 



Juncus seirpoides Lam. j 



Myrica cerifera L. 



Atriplex hastata L. 



Salicornia herbacea L. 



Salsola kali L. 



Sesuvium maritimwn (Walt. ) B. 

 S. P. 



Tissa marina (L. ) Britton. 



Meibomia paniculata (L. ) 

 Kuntze. 



Linum medium (Planch. ) Brit- 

 ton. 



Euphorbia polygonifolia L. 

 Rhus radicans L. 

 Ilex opaca Ait. 

 Vitis cestivalis Michx. 

 Kosteletskya virginica. 

 Hibiscus moscheutos L. 

 (Enothera humifusa Nutt. 

 Limonium carolinianum (Walt. ) 



Britton. 

 Monarda p)unctata L. 

 Gerardia maritima Raf. 

 Solidago sempervirens L. 

 Baccharis halimifolia L. 

 Pluchea camphorata (L. ) D. C. 

 Iva frutescens (L. ) Raf. 

 Carduus spiiiosissimus Walt. 



4. Species ranging northward. The northern limit is taken 

 from Britton and Brown's Illustrated Flora : 



Spartina patens (Ait) IMuhl. Iva frutescens L. (Massachu- 



(Nova Scotia). setts). 



Distichlis spicata (L. ) Greene Solidago sempervirens L. (New 



(Maine). Brunswick). 



^' Cowles, I. c. 




OGO PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1900. 



Sesuvium marltunum (Walt.) ^. Aster subulatns Michx. (New 



S. P. (New York). Hampshire). 



Euphorbia polygonifolia L. Baceharis halimifolia L. (Mas- 



( Rhode Island). sachusetts). 



Kosteletskya virglnica (L.) A. Hudsorda tomentosa Nutt. (New 



Gray, (NeAv York). Brunswick). 



Limonium carolinianum (Mnh.].) Lechea maritlma Leg. (Massa- 



Britton (Labrador). chusetts). 



5. Species occurring also on the sea coast of the northern hemi- 

 sphere in the Old Woi'ld :" 



Spartina strida (Ait.) Roth. Tissa marina (L. ) Britton. 



Atriplex hasfata L. Ammophila (Pgainma) arenarin 

 Salicornia herbacea L. (L. ) Link. 



Salsola kali J^. Lathyrus maritimiis (L. ) Bigel. 



6. The plants which may be said to have been recently intro- 

 duced and to occur here, as elsewhere, as weeds are: 



Holcus lanatm L. Anthemis cotula D. C. 

 Oenothera laciniata Hill. Carduus arvensi^ (L.) Robs. 



Daucus carota L. Lactuca canadensis L 



Achillea millejolium L. Leptilon canadensis (L. ) Brit- 

 Ambrosia artemisiccjolia. L. ton and others. 



7. The following plants, mentioned in the descriptive text, also 

 occur on the dune formations near the Lake of the Woods i^*^ 



Hudsonia tomentosa Nutt. Lathyrus maritimus (L. ) Bigel. 



Rhus radicans L. 



List of Plants. 



This list comprises the names of those plants known to occur on 

 the beaches and salt marshes of the New Jersey coast. It is made 

 as complete as possible, so that the plants peculiar to the region are 

 brought together for ready reference. The nomenclature used is 

 that found in Britton and Brown's Illmtrated Flora of the 

 Northern United States, Canada and the Britii>h Possessions, but for 

 purposes of comparison the names according to Gray's Manual of 



^* Kearney, ?• <".. p. -^Ij. 



^* MacMillau, ''Observatious on the Disirit>iition of Plants Along Shore at 

 Lake of Woods," Minn. Bot. Studies Bulletin, 9, p. 949. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 661 



Botany (sixth edition, 1890) are given in parentheses. The source 

 of information is designated as follows: Unmarked, collections made 

 by the writer at Seaside Park, July 19, 20 and 21; at South 

 Atlantic City and Ocean City on August 21; at Wildwood, 

 August 31, 1900; marked by asterisk ('•-), plants collected by 

 members of the Philadelphia Botanical Club;"' with a dagger (j), 

 plant names given in Britton's Catalogue of New Jersey Plants.-^ 

 In all cases omitting the dates, the locality where the species were 

 found is given by way of geographically fixing the plants. A 

 large number of plants from Wildwood in the herbarium of 

 the Philadelphia Botanical Club ' were collected July 4, 1897. 

 When only one name is given without accompanying synonym, it 

 is common to the manuals mentioned above. 



OPHIOGLOSSAOE^. 

 ^Ophioglossum arenarium E. G. Britton. Wildwood. 



OSMUNDACE^. 

 OsMUXDA recalls L. Wildwood. 



POLYPODIACE^. 



Dryopteeis marginalis (L. ) A. Gray (Asjjidium marginale 

 Sw. ). Seaside Park. 



Dryopteris thelypteris (L. ) A. Gray {Aspidium thelypteris 

 Sw.). Seaside Park, Ocean City, Wildwood. 



Pteris aqdilina L. South Atlantic City. 



CONIFERS. 



PiNUS RiGiDA Mill. Seaside Park, South Atlantic City. 

 JuNiPERUS viRGixiANA L. Seaside Park (6 varieties). 

 South Atlantic City, Wildwood. 



TYPHAOE^. 

 Typha latifolia L. Seaside Park. 



NAJ ADAGES. 



Rdppia maritima L. Seaside Park. jBrackish water, com- 

 mon. 



jZoSTERA marina L. 



*' For names of collectors the investigator is referred to the lahels on the 

 herbarium sheets at the Acad. Nat. Sci. of Phila. 



'* The marks of designation, when a species collected by the writer are also 

 mentioned in the two floras, are placed before the name of the locality in- 

 stead of before the name of the plant. 



43 




662 PEOCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



ALISMAOE^. 

 *Alisma planpago-aquatica L. Cape ^lay. 

 GR AMINES. 



*Agro8TIs alba L. Wildwood 



*AiRA PE.T2C0X L. Anglesea. 



Ammophila arenaeia (L. ) Link. (Ammojihila arundinacea 

 Host.). Seaside Park, South Atlantic City, Ocean City, Wild- 

 wood, *Cape May. 



Andropogon virginicus L. Wildwood, 



^Aristida purpurascens Poir. Anglesea. 



*Bromds asper Murr. ( Bromus asper Ij.). Wildwood. 



Ce>x'hrus tribuloides L. Ocean City, "-^Wildwood. fSandy 

 soil on sea beaches. 



DiSTiCHLis SPiCATA (L. ) Greene (Distichlis maritima Raf. ). 

 South Atlantic City, -^Atlantic City. jSalt meadows, common. 



^DiPLACHNE FAscrcuLARis (Lam.) Beauv. (7>. fascicularis 

 Beauv.). Sea Isle City. 



^Festuca ovina L. Wildwood. 



*Festuca ovina var. duriusccla (L.) Hack. (F. ovina var. 

 durinscula Koch). Holly Beach. 



*HoLcus LAKATUS L. Wildwood. 



'-^MunLENBERGiA DIFFUSA Schreb. Anglesea. 



*Paxicularia fluitans (L. ) Kuntze {Glyceria fluitans R. 

 Br. ) . Anglesea. 



Panicum amarum Ell, Seaside Park, AVildwood. 



^Panicum barbulatum Michx. AVildwood. 



*Panicum columbianum Scribner, Wildwood. 



Panicum crus-gallt var. hispidum (Muhl.) Torr. Seaside 

 Park, *Sea Isle City. fSalt or brackish marshes, common. 



Panicum proliferum Lam. Seaside Park. jComraou along 

 borders of salt or brackish meadows. 



'^Panicum veerucosum INIuhl, Anglesea. 



Panicum virgatum L. Seaside Park, Wildwood. 



^Panicum viscidim Ell. Five-mile Beach. 



-j-Sayastana odorata (L. ) Scribu. (Hierochloc boreali^ R. 

 andS. ). Borders of salt or brackish meadows. Seabright. 



Sieglingia purpurea (Walt.) Kuntze (Triodia purpurea 

 Hack. ). Seaside Park, ^Atlantic City, f Common on sea beaches. 



Spartina cynosuroides (L. ) Willd. {Sportiua cynosuroides 

 Willd. ). Ocean Citv, Longport. 



Spartina patens (Ait.) jNIuhl. (/S'. juucea Willd.). Seaside 

 Park, South Atlantic City, *Sandy Hook, -^Anglesea, -^Wildwood, 

 *Cape May. fOn salt marshes, common. 



Spartina polystachya (Michx.) Ell. (S. 2ioIystachya'W\\\d.). 

 Seaside Park, f Salt marshes, common. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 663 



*Spartina stricta maritima (Walt.) Scribu. (S. stricfa 

 var. glabra Gray). Cape May. jDitches, salt marsh, coinmou. 

 ^Seaside Park, ^Atlantic City, *Cape May. 



CYPERACEiE. 



Carek lupulina IVruhl. Wildwood, ''^Five-mile Beach. 



Carex moniliformis (Tuck.) Britton (?). ySea beaches, 

 common. 



fCAREX MuHLENBERGii Schk. Atlantic City. 



*Carex pseudo-cyperus L. var. Americana Hochst. {Carex 

 comosa Boott.). Five-mile Beach. 



f Carex alata Torr. [Carex straminea Schk. var. alata (Torr.) 

 Bailey). Atlantic City, Cape May. 



jCarex albolutescens Schwein {Car-ex straminea Schk. var. 

 fceriea (Willd.) Torr.). Edges salt or brackish marshes, common. 



*Carex virescens Muhl. \Vildwood. 



*Cyperus cylindricus (Fll.) Britton {Cyperus Torreyi Brit- 

 ton). AVildwood. 



f Cyperus Grayii Torr. Sea beaches, common. 



Cyperus Nuttallii Eddy {C. Nuttallii Torr.). Seaside 

 Park, Ocean City, *Cape May. fSalt or brackish marshes. 



Cyperus strigosus L. Wildwood. 



*Eleocharis ovata (Roth.) R. and S. {E. ovata R. Br.). 

 Anglesea. 



Fimbrystylis castanea (Michx.) Vahl. {F. spadicea var. 

 castanea Gray). ^Anglesea, -'^Sea Isle City, -'^Cape May. Salt 

 or brackish marshes. 



*FyiRENA SQUARROSA Michx. Cape May. 



FuiRENA SQUARROSA HispiDA (Ell.) Chapm. *Cape INIay, 

 f Ocean Beach. 



Rhynchospora glomerata (L.) Vahl. {R. glomerata Vahl.). 

 Seaside Park. 



*SciRPUS AMERicANus Pers. {S. pungens Vahl.). Wildwood. 



SciRPUS DEBiLis Pursh. Seaside Park. 



*SciRPUS LACusTRis L. Anglesea. 



fSciRPUS NANUS Spreng. Salt or brackish meadows. 



SciRPUS ROBUSTUS Pursh. (»S. maritimus L.). Seaside Park, 

 *Holly Beach, *^ Anglesea. 



XYRIDAOE^. 



*Xyris flexuosa Muhl. Anglesea. 



JUNOACEiE. 



JuNCUs ACUMiNATUS Michx, Wildwood, *Holly Beach. 

 *JuNCDS BUFONius L. Wildwood. 

 JuNCUS EFFUSDS L. Seaside Park. 




664 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



JuNCUS Gerardi Loisel. Seaside Park, South Atlantic City, 

 *Holly Beach, =^ Atlantic City. 



^'JuNCus MARGIXATUS Rostk. Wildwood. 



fJuNCUs RoEMERiANUS Schecle. Brackish marshes Xew 

 Jersey; reported by Pursh, but not found certainly since. 



JuNcus sciRPOiDEs Lam. South Atlantic City. 



'•STuNCUS TENUIS Willd. Holly Beach. 



LILIACE^. 



Smilax rotdndifolia L. Seaside Park. 

 *LiLiuM superbum L. Cape May. 



*PoLYGONATUM COMMUTATUM (R. and S. ) Dictr. (P. (jigcui- 

 teum Dietr.). Five-mile Beach. 



ORCHIDACE^. 



Gyrostachys PRiECOX (Walt.) Kuntze {Spimnthes jjrceco.v 

 Wats.). Seaside Park, -'^Anglesea. 



MYRICACE^. 



My'RICA cerifera L. Seaside Park, South Atlantic City, 

 Ocean City, Wild'.vood, -'-Atlantic City. 



PAGACEJE. 



QuERCUS alba L. X Q. minor (Marsh.) Sarg. Wildwood. 



QuERCUS DKiiTATA (Marsh.) Sarg. (Q. jW/eaf^ Michx.). South 

 Atlantic City, Wildwood. 



QuERCUs MINOR (Marsh.) Sarg. {Q. stelhda Wang.). South 

 Atlantic City, Wildwood. 



QuERCUS NANA (Marsh.) Sarg. {Q. if id folia Wang.). Seaside 

 I^irk. 



QuERCUs piiELLOS L. Seaside Park. 



POLYGONACE^. 



*PoLYGONUM DUMETORDM L. Aiiglesea. 

 *PoLYGONUM SCANDENS L. {P. (iKtiH'iondu var. sea ndens Gray). 

 Holly Beach. 



*P0LYG0NrM ERECTUM L. AuglcSCa. 



Polygonum hydropiperoides Michx. Seaside Park. 



Polygonum lapathifolium L. Wildwood. 



fPoLYGONUM maritimum L. Sandy sea beaches. 



Polygonum ramossissimum ^lichx. *Sea Isle, fC^^P^ May, 

 ■]• Atlantic City. 



^i'RuMEX BRiTANNicA L. Holly Beach, Anglesea. 



fRuMEX PERSiCARioiDES L. {R. viaritimm L.). Salt marshes, 

 not rare. 



*RuMEX SALiciFOLics Woium. Wildwood. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. G65 



OHENOPODIAOE^. 



A.TRIPLEX ARENARiA Nutt. Wildwood, *Anglesea, *Ocean 

 City, *Cape "May. ;};Sea beaches, commoa. 



Atriplex HA8TATA L. [A. patuluvi L. var. hasfatum Gray). 

 Seaside Park. 



Chenopodiu:m album L. Seaside Park. 



jChenopodium leptophyllum (Moq.) Nutt. (C. lejjtophyllum 

 Nutt.). Atlantic City, Sandy Hook. Adventive from west. 



tCHENOPODiu3i RUBRUM L. Salt meadows. 



DoNDiA AMERICANA (Pers.) Britton {Siueda linearis Moq.). 

 Seaside Park, '-i^Ocean City, *Sea Isle City, *Cape May. 



fSALicoRNiA AMBiGUA Michx, Wet sands of seashore. 

 =^ Atlantic City. 



Salicornia herbacea L, South Atlantic City, -'-Sea Isle 

 City. 



fSALicoRNiA Bigelovii Torr. {S. viucronata Bigel.). Salt 

 meadows. 



Salsola KALI L. Seaside Park, Wildwood, ^Atlantic City, 

 *Cape May. 



AMARANTACE^. 



tAcNiDA CANNABiNA L. Brackish marshes. 

 ■J-Amaranthds pumilus Raf. Sandy sea beaches, frequent. 

 Amaranthus retroflexus L. Seaside Park. 



AIZOAGE^. 



Sesuvidm maritimum (Walt.) B.S.P. {S. pentandnim Ell.). 

 Wildwood. fSea beaches, frequent. ''^Ocean City. 



OARYOPHYLLAOE^. 



Ammodenia peploides (L. ) Rupr. {Arenaria peploides L. ). 

 Seaside Park, '-"Atlantic City, ^Anglesea. 



McEHRiNGiA lateriflora (L. ) Fenzl. {Arenaria lateriflora 

 L.). ^Anglesea, ^Atlantic City, jAnglesea. 



=i=SAOiNA DECUMBENS (Ell.) T. and G. Wildwood. 



TissA MARINA (L. ) Britton (Buda marina Dumort). South 

 Atlantic City, ^^Cape May, ^Holly Beach. jSalt or brackish 

 marshes, common. 



*TissA RUBRA (L. ) Britton (Buda ?-u6ra Dumort). Sea Isle 

 City, Atlantic City. 



MAGNOLIACE^. 

 Magnolia yirginiana L. (J/. glauca'L.). Wildwood. 




666 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



RANUNCULAOE^. 



fOxYGRAPHfS CYMBALARIA (Pursh. ) Prantl. (Ranunculus 

 cymhalaria Pursh.). Borders of salt marsh, Atlantic City. 



LAURACE^. 



Sassafras sassafras (L. ) Karst. {S. officinale Nees). Sea- 

 side Park, Wildwood. 



CRUCIFER^. 



Cakile edentula (Bigel, ) Hook. (C americana Nutt. ). 

 Seaside Park, *Cape ^May, ^Auglesea, '^=.Sea Isle City. 



DROSERACE^. 



Drosera FILIFORMI3 Raf. Seaside Park. 

 Drosera intermedia Hayne. Seaside Park. 



ROSACEA. 



Prunus maritima L. Seaside Park, Wildwood, ^Five-mile 

 Beach. 



Prunus serotina Ehrh. Wildwood. 



Rosa Carolina L. Seaside Park, Wildwood. 



Rosa humilis Mai-sh. Seaside Park, <^Five-mile Beach. 



RuBUS canadensis L. Seaside Park. 



LEGUMINOS^. 



Cassia cham.ecrista L. South Atlantic City, AVildwood. 



Latiiyrus maritimus (L. ) Bigel. Seaside Park. 



Lespede/a (^apitata ]\[ichx. Wildwood. 



Meibomia paniculata (L.) Kuutze {Desmodium jjayiiculatmti 

 D. C). Wildwood. 



Stropii ©STYLES HELVOLA (L. ) BHtton (S. angulosa Ell.). 

 Ocean City, Wildwood. 



GERANIACE^. 



IGeranium Robertianum L. Iu old forest, Sandy Hook. 



LINAGES. 



LiNUM medium (Planch.) Britten. Seaside Park. 



POLYGALACE^. 



fPoLYGALA CRUCiATA L. Abuudaut aloug the borders of salt 

 marshes with upland. 




1900.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 667 



EUPHORBI ACE^ . 



jEuPHORBIA HUMISTRATA EngellU. 



Euphorbia polygonifolia. L. Seaside Park, *Wildwood, 

 *Cape j\Iay. 



ANAOARDIACE^. 



JlHca COPALLINA L. Seaside Park, *Cape May. 



Rhus radicals L. (Rhus toxicodendron). Seaside Park. 



AQUIPOLIACE^. 



Ilex opaca Ait. Seaside Park, South Atlantic City (form 

 with spineless leaves). Wild wood. 



ACERACE^. 



Acer rubrum L. "Wildwood. 



BALSAMINACE^. 



Impatiexs biflora Walt. (/. /»/raXutt.). Wildwood. 



VITACEJE. 



Parthenocissus quinquefolia (L. ) Planch. (Amjyelojjsis 

 quinquefolia Michx.). Seaside Park. 



ViTis AESTIVALIS Michx. South Atlantic City, Ocean City. 



ViTis LABRUSCA L. Wiidwood, forming lianes ; stem over one 

 foot in diameter. 



MALVAOE^. 



Hibiscus moscheuios L. Seaside Park, Wildwood, --Cape 

 May. 



KosTELETSKYA viRGiNiCA (L. ) A. Gray. Seaside Park. 



GUTTIFER^. 



Hypericum canadexse L. Seaside Park. 

 Hypericum mutilum L. Seaside Park. 



Triadexu3I virgixicum (L. ) Raf. (Elodes campanulata 

 Pursh.). Seaside Park, *Cape May. 



CISTAOEiE. 



HuDSONiA TOMEXTOSA Nutt. Seaside Park, ^'^Five-mile Beach, 

 ^Atlantic City. 



Lechea maritima Leggett (Z. minor xox. maritima K. Gray). 

 Seaside Park. fSands of seashore, common. 



LYTHRAOE^. 

 fLYTHRUM LiNEARE L. Borders of salt marshes. 




668 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



MELASTOMACEJE. 



*Rhexia MARIANA L. Cape May. 



'•^Rhexia virginica L. Anglesea, Cape May. 



ONAGRACE^. 



OENOTHERA HUMIFUSA Nutt. Wildwood. 



*CEnoihera LACiNiATA Hill ( (E. siumta L.). Five-mile 

 Beach. 



^Kneiffia pumila (L.) Spach. (CEnothera pumila L. ). 

 Five-mile Beach. 



H ALLOR AGIN AO E^. 



^Myriophyllum pinnatum (Walt.) B. S. P. (31. scabratum 

 Michx. ). Shallow ditches, Wildwood. 



UMBELLIPER^. 



^Eryngium virginianum Lam. Cape ^Nlay. 



*Caucali8 anthriscus Hudson. AVildwood. 



*Hydrocotyle verticillata Thunb. Wildwood. 



*Hydrocotyle umbellata L. Cape May. 



OxYPOLis rigidus (L. ) Britton {Tiedemannia rigida Coult. 

 aud Rose). Wildwood, *Auglesea. 



Ptilimnium capillaceum (Michx.) Hollick {Discopleum 

 cupillaceaD. C. ). Seaside Park, Ocean City, AVildwood, *Five- 

 mile Beach. 



SiuM cicut;efolium Gmel. Five-mile Beach. 



CORNAOE^. 

 Nyssa sylvatica ]\Iarsh. Wildwood. 

 ERICACE^. 



Kalmia anqustifolia L. Seaside Park. 



OxYCOCCUS macrocarpus (Ait.) Pers. (Vaccinium macro- 

 carpon Ait.). Seaside Park. 



Vaccinium atrococcum (A. Gray) Heller ( T". coi-ymhosum 

 var. atrococcum A. Gray). Seaside Park. 



Vaccinium corymbosum L. Seaside Park. 



PRIMULACEiE. 



fGLAUx MARiTiMA L. Deal Beach. 

 *Trientalis AMERICANA Pursh. Auglesca. 

 *Anagalli6 arvensis L. Cape ^lay. 



*Samolus floribundus H. B. K. (S. vahmndi var. ameri- 

 canus Gray). Five-mile Beach. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 609 



PLUMBAGINAOE^. 



LiMONiuM CAROLiNiANUM (Walt.) Bi'ittou (Statice Ihnonivm 

 var. carolinianum A. Gray). Seaside Park, South Atlantic City, 

 *Ocean City, *Cape May. 



GENTIANACE^. 



■-^'Sabbatia angularis (L. ) Pursh. Wildwood, Cape May. 



fSABBATiA CAMPANULATA (L. ) Torr. {Sabbatia gracilis 

 Salisb. ). Ocean Beach, Ocean Grove, Cape May. 



Sabbatia lanceolata (Walt.) T and G. Seaside Park. 



Sabbatia stellaris Pursh. Seaside Park, South Atlantic 

 City, *Cape May, 



ASOLEPIADAOE^. 



AscLEPiAS PULCHRA Ehrh. (A. incarnata va.v. pu/chra Pers. ). 

 Seaside Park, Wildwood. 



CONVOLVULACE^. 



Convolvulus sepium L. Seaside Park. 



VERBENAOE^. 



LippiA LANCEOLATA Michx. Wildwood. 

 Verbena hast at a L. Seaside Park. 



LABIATJE. 



Lycopus americanus Muhl. (L. sinuafus Ell.). Wildwood. 

 MoNARDA punctata L. Ocean City, ^^Cape May, Wildwood. 

 Teucrium cana dense L. Seaside Park, *Anglesea. 



SOLANACE^. 



Lycopersicon lycopersicon (L. ) Karst (Lycopersicnm escu- 

 lentum Miller). Wildwood, in beach sand ; evidently introduced 

 by fruit brought as luncheon. 



SOROPHUL ARI ACE^ . 



Gerardia purpurea L. Seaside Park, Ocean City, Wild- 

 wood, ^Cape May. 



*Gerardia maritima Raf. Sea Isle City, Ocean City, Atlantic 

 City, Cape May. 



Gratiola pilosa Michx. Cape IVIay. 



PL ANT AGIN AOE.^ . 



*Plantago virginica L. Anglesea. 

 ^Plantago maritima L. Atlantic City. 




670 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



RUBIACE^. 

 *DroDiA viRGiNiANA L, Cape May. 



OAPRIPOLIACE^. 



*LoNiCERA SEMPERViRENS L. Anglesea. 

 Viburnum dentatum L. South Atlantic City. 



CAMPANULACB^. 



Lobelia cardinalis L. Wildwood. 

 Lobelia pdberula Michx. Cape May. 



COMPOSITE. 



Achillea millefolium L. Seaside Park, 



Ambrosia artemisi.efolia L. "Wildwood. 



Anaphalis MARGARiTACEA (L. ) Bentli. and Hook, "Wild- 

 wood. 



*Anthemis cotula D,C, 



fARTEMisiA stelleriana Bess, Sea beaches, Sandy Hook, 



*AsTER lateriflorus (L, ) Britton (Aster dlffnsus L. ) Sea 

 Isle City, 



*AsTER lateriflorus thyrsoideus a. Gray (A. diffiisus 

 tkyrsoideus Gray). Sea Isle City. 



*Aster tenuifolius L. (J., fiexnosus Nutt. ). Cape May, 

 Ocean City, Atlantic City. 



-^^Aster subulatus L, (A. luiifoliKs Gray). Cape May, 

 "Wildwood. 



Bacciiaris iialimi folia L. Seaside Park, *Cape May. 



BiDENS coNNATA Miihl. Ocean City. 



*BiDEXs l.evis (L ) B, S, P, (B. chnjsanthemoides Michx.). 

 Cape INIay. 



*Carduus ARVENSI8 (L. ) Robs. (Cnicus arveusi^ Hoft. ). 

 Anglesea. 



Carduus spinosissimus "Walt. (Cnicus Iiorridu/us Pursh.). 

 Seaside Park, f Junction salt or brackish marshes and upland. 



'•^Chrysopsis MARIANA Xutt, Cape May, 



Ereciitites hieracifolia (L, ) Raf. Seaside Park. 



^EupATORiUM album L. Auglcsea. 



*Eupatorium ca:LESTiNUM L. Cape ^lay. 



EuPATORiUM hyssopifolium L. Wildwood, -'Cape May. 



EuPATORiUM ROTUNDiFOLiUM L. Seaside Park, Atlantic City. 



Helianthus giganteus L. "Wildwood. 



HiERAciUM marianum WiUd. Five-mile Beach. 



*IoNACTis LiNARiiFOLius (L. ) Greene (Asier ImarHfolius L. ). 

 Cape ]May. 



IvA FRUTESCENS L. Seaside Park, '^ Atlantic City. 




1900,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 671 



Lactuca canadensis L. "Wildwood, ^''Holly Beach. 



*Lactuca floridana (L. ) Gaertn. Anglesea. 



fLACTUCA HiRSUTA Muhl. Atlantic City. 



*Lacinaria squarrosa (L. ) Hill (Liatris squarrosa Willcl. ). 

 Anglesea. 



Liatris spicata (L. ) Willd. (L. s/;icato Willd. ). Bay Head. 



Leptilon canadensis (L. ) Britton (Erigeron canadensis Li.). 

 Wildwood. 



Pluchea camphorata (L. ) D. C. Seaside Park, ^Atlantic 

 City, *Ocean City, ^Cape May. 



Solidago fistdlosa Mill. {S. pilosa Wsdt.) . Wildwood. 



SoLiDAGO ODORA Ait. Wildwood. 



Solidago sempervirens L. Seaside Park, Wildwood, 

 'j^Ocean City. 



*SoLiDAGO STRiCTA Ait. Auglesca. 



WiLLUGHB.EA SCANDENS (L. ) Kuntze (Mikauia scandens 

 Willd.). Ocean City, Wildwood. 



Xanthidm canadense Mill. Seaside Park. 



Xanthium canadense var. echinatum Gray. Wildwood. 




672 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



ADDITIONS TO THE JAPANESE LAND SNAIL FAUNA. III. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



The Japanese fauna is proving very prolific in Clausilia.s, and 

 may yet rival the richer portions of Eastern Europe in degree of 

 specific differentiation. It is obvious that until much more merely 

 descriptive work is done, no sound generalization upon the Japanese 

 species is possible. I have therefore been satisfied to add to the 

 accumulation of facts which can tell their story only when collec- 

 tions from many more localities come to our hands. Many of 

 the species of Clausilia seem to be of restricted geographic distribu- 

 tion. Thus, the fauna of southern Hondo, Shikoku and Awaji 

 seems to have but few Clausilife in common with the Xikko region. 



The fruitful researches of ^Ir. Y. Hirase now enable me to add 

 several species to the fauna of Shikoku Island, and a remarkable 

 Euphcedusa to the Hokkaido fauna, the first Clausilia known from 

 that island. Moreover, he has discovered a very remarkable modifi- 

 cation of the Euphivdusan type, C. mikado, in the region of Lake 

 Biwa. 



In a former paper I described two species, C. Hirasei and C. 

 hyj)eroplyx, remarkable among Asiatic Clausiliie for their compli- 

 cated internal armature. It is now proposed to erect a section for 

 the I'cceptiou of these species. 



Section ZAPTYX nov. 



Clausilium tongue-shaped, about twice as long as wide, with 

 subparallol lateral margins, the apex much thickened on the 

 columellar side ; posteriorly emarginate oi' auriculate on both sides 

 of the filament or on the columellar side only; straight distally, 

 but abruptly and strongly curved near the filament. 



Shell small, the superior lamella widely separated from the 

 spiral lamella; a fulcrum and parallel lamella developed; sutural 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 673 



plicse present; upper palatal plica iudependent from or united 

 with the well-developed lunella; no lower palatal plica. 



Type C. Hirasei Pils. 



Distribution: Southern Kiusiu and the Loo Choo Islands. 



The general shape of the clausilium is somewhat Hemiphsedu- 

 soid, but the abruptly bent and emarginate posterior end and 

 heavily thickened apex differ strikingly from those parts in the 

 clausilium of Hemiphredusa. 



In C. Hirasei the clausihum (PI. XXV, figs. 33, 34) is biemar- 

 ginate behind. In C lujperoptijx the columellar side only is dis- 

 tinctly emarginale. 



Section EUPH^DUSA Bttg. 

 ( Group of C. shanghaiensis. ) 

 Clausilia comes n. sp. PI. XXIV, figs, l, 2, 3. 



Shell small, rimate, slenderly fusiform, rather weakly striate, 

 the last whorl with delicate rib-striae ; olivaceous brownish. Apex 

 slightly obtuse. Whorls 9, strongly convex, separated by deep 

 sutures. Aperture not oblique, pyriform, with a distinct sinulus 

 above, the peristome white, expanded and subreflexed, scarcely 

 thickened. Superior lamella rather small, though rather higher 

 than in C. digonoptyx, diconnected from or barely continuous with 

 the spiral lamella. Inferior lamella converging strongly toward 

 the superior, though somewhat less so than in C digonoptyx, 

 strongly spiral Avithiu. Subcolumellar lamella immersed very 

 deeply. Principal plica short and small, wholly lateral. Lunella 

 shaped as in C aculus, but so slight as to be all but imperceptible 

 except at the ends, which appear as small, short, irregular, upper 

 and lower palatal folds. Clausilium of the typical form for 

 Euphcedusa, short and wide, broadest distally, strongly curved, 

 moderately thickened at the apex, the columellar side emarginate 

 behind (PI. XXV, figs. 35, 36). 



Alt. 10, diam. 2.3 mm. 



Kashima, Harima (Mr. Y. Hirase). 



Belonging to the little group of C. aculus, digonoptyx and tau, 

 this form is smaller and deficient in palatal armature. C. aculus, 

 which probably does not occur in Ja^^an north or east of Kiusiu, 

 has a less developed superior lamella. In C. digonoptyx the 

 lamellse converge more, the lunella is better developed, and the 




674 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



striation is stronger. C. tau is a widely distributed species with 

 long upper palatal plica and stronger lunella, etc. 

 Clausilia monelasmus n. sp. PI. XXiv, figs. 4, 5, 6. 



Shell rimate, slender, fusiform, strongly striate, brown. Apex 

 rather acute, but the nuclear whorl is somewhat swollen; spire 

 attenuated above. Whorls 8^ to 9, quite convex, the sutures 

 well impressed, the last whorl narrower than the penultimate. 

 Aperture hardly oblique, pyriform, with rather indistinctly defined, 

 retracted sinulus. Peristome thickened, expanded, continuous, 

 white. Superior lamella wanting, represented by a slight thick- 

 ening of the peristome at its position; spiral lamella arising so far 

 within that it is not visible from the aperture, but becoming high 

 and continued to the ventral side, being longer within than the 

 other lamelhe. Inferior lamella obsolete below, not emerging, but 

 high within, as in C. digonoptijx. Subcolumellar lamella deeply 

 iinmersed. Principal plica very short and small, lateral. Upper 

 palatal plica strong, its lower end bent downward ; lunella want- 

 ing; lower palatal plica short, well developed. Clausilium (PI. 

 XXY, figs. 26, 27, 28, 29) short and broad, strongly curved, 

 not emarginate behind, and only slightly thickened apically. 



Alt. 10.5, diam. 2.3 mm. 



Kayabe, Ojima (Mr, Y. Hirase). 



This is the first Clausilia to be made known from Hokkaido 

 (Yesso), to my knowledge. It occurred with a small Hemi- 

 phoidum. It is remarkable for the obsolete condition of the supe- 

 rior lamella, the deeply immersed spiral lamella and the wide 

 interruption of the lunella, the remaining ends of which appear 

 merely as upper and lower palatal folds. A white line may be 

 seen on the parietal wall, on looking into the aperture, caused by 

 the subcolumellar lamella showing through. 



( Group of C. jos. ) 

 Clausilia iotaptyx n. sp. PI. XXV, figs. 7, 8, 0. 



Shell rimate, turrited, the penultimate whorl widest, those above 

 nearly regularly tapering, then becoming almost cylindrical, the 

 apex obtuse; rather solid, finely striate, a little more coarsely so 

 on the back of the last whorl. Whorls nearly 11, but slightly 

 convex, the last compressed. Aperture hardly oblique, ovate- 

 pyriform, the peristome well expanded, slightly thickened, whitish, 




1900.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 675 



a little eraarginate above. Sinulus high. Superior lamella rather 

 small, oblique, contiguous to the spiral lamella. Infei'ior lamella 

 deeply placed, but continued and emerging upon the peristome, 

 straightened within and giving off a branch toward the spiral 

 lamella. Subcolumellar lamella emerging, and with the inferior 

 lamella, continued to the margin. Principal plica strong and 

 long, nearly reaching the lip, and extending inward well beyond 

 the lateral lunella. Palatal plici^e two, short, the upper parallel 

 with the principal plica, the lower one oblique, a straight lunella 

 connecting them, inserted near the middle of each, and with the 

 plicae forming an I-like figure. Clausilium (PI. XXV, fig. 40), 

 trapezoidal-oblong, not much curved, somewhat thickened at the 

 sides, and especially thick on the columellar side near the apex, 

 strongly emarginate posteriorly on the columellar side. It is 

 shaped very much like that of C. mikado. 



Alt. 18, diam. 3.8, longest axis of aperture 3.6 mm. 



Alt. 16.3, diam. 3.3 mm. 



Ibuki, Omi (Mr. Y. Hirase). 



A solid, opaque species, with peculiarly thick though attenuated 

 spire. The clausilium seems far too thick at the end for a Hemi- 

 phcedusa, though it is more elongate than usual in Euphcedum, 

 being a good deal like that of C. mikado; and as in that species 

 the superior and inferior laraelke are very widely separated, even 

 "within. Viewed from the back, in a specimen broken open, the 

 inferior lamella is but very weakly spiral, much as in many 

 Hemiphadusas, and is thickened below. The spiral and sub- 

 columellar lamellae both enter very deeply and equally, while in 

 Euphcedum the spiral lamella should extend inward beyond the 

 other, according to Dr. Boettger, confirmed by the species I have 

 examined. This point is not very reliable perhaps, for in two 

 specimens of C. mikado opened, one has the spiral lamella dis- 

 tinctly longer, the other has the inferior a little longer. I fear, 

 therefore, that the sectional position of this species must be left in 

 uncertainty. I place it in Boettger' s Formenkreis von C. jos, of 

 Euphcedusa, but probably it belongs elsewhere. 



Compared with the Hemiphcedusa species, C. iotaptyx is nearest 

 to C. aurantiaca ; but the closing apparatus is lateral, the superior 

 lamella is very low inside (while in C. aurantiaca it is high), and 

 the spire is thick and clumsy above. The lunella and associated 




676 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



palatal plic?e are much as in C. aurantiaca, but the clausilium 

 denies C. iotaptyx entrance in any group of Heraiphcedma. 



Section TYRANNOPH.EDUSA nov. 



Many-whorled, with distinct sinulus, deeply placed inferior 

 lamella, very remote throughout from the superior lamella, the 

 clausilium narrower than in Eupheedum, tapering and ol)lique at 

 the much -thickened apex. Other characters as in the C jos group 

 of Eaphcedusa. I propose this section for the following remark- 

 able species: 

 Clausilia mikado n. sp. ri. XXIV, fife's. 10, 11, 12. 



Shell rimate, the lower half swollen, upper half exceedingly 

 attenuated ; livid gray, becoming dull red where worn, and over- 

 grown with alga in most specimens seen. 



Sculptured with crowded, very fine striae, on the last two whorls 

 becoming very much coarser, last whorl rather irregularly rib- 

 striate. Apex obtuse and globose; tvhorh 18, the earlier 8 or 10 

 not increasing in diameter, even decreasing a little; the next few 

 whorls gradually, slowly increasing, the last 4 whorls forming the 

 rather swollen lower half of the shell's length; last whorl de- 

 cidedly higher than the preceding, tapering, compressed at the 

 sides. Sutures impressed. Aperture small, oblique, retracted 

 above and below, irregularly pyriform, the sinulus strongly devel- 

 oped, high and narrow; peristome white, expanded and thickened, 

 continuous, emarginate above, where it is built out far beyond the 

 whorl. Superior lamella marginal, vertical, well developed, con- 

 tinuous with the spiral lamella. Inferior lamella not visible in a 

 front view, deeply immersed, continuing very distant from the 

 superior lamella within, but giving off a low branch toward it. 

 Subcolumellar lamella emerging, sometimes continued to the margin 

 of the peristome, and more or less distinctly bounded by grooves. 

 Principal plica strong and long, extending nearly to the lip, and 

 inward to the ventral side of the whorl. Upper and lower palatal 

 plicre short, oblique and parallel, connected by a nearly straight, 

 narrow, rather weak lunella, which, however, is hardly connected 

 with the upper palatal, and is lateral in position. Clausilium 

 (PI. XXV, figs. 87, 38, 3y) strongly thickened at the sides and 

 end, and especially along the columellar margin near the apex (fig. 

 38), abruptly emarginate on the columellar side posteriorly, the 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 677 



apex oblique, angular at the outer-lower or palato-apical extrem- 

 ity, rounded at the inner-lower or columellar-apical part. 



Alt. 23, diam. 3.5, longest axis of aperture 0.5 mm. 



Ibuki, Omi (Mr. Y. Hirase). 



Remarkable for its mauy-whorled, slender spire, solute aperture 

 and peculiar elausilium. This species is the first one of its kind 

 to be made known, and is one of the most remarkable of Mr. 

 Hirase' s discoveries. 



Section STEREOPH^EDUSA Bttg. 



Clausilia oostoma Molldff. 



C. oostoma Molldff., Journ. Asiat. Soc. Beng., LI, pt. 2, p. 4, PL 1. 



fig. 2 (1882). 

 C. jnponica var. sururjce Pils., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1900, p. 



447, PI. 14, fig. 4. 



In my former paper on Japanese Clausilias I did not recognize 

 this species in my C. japonica var. surugce. I am now satisfied 

 that my variety is identical with the form defined by von Moelleu- 

 dorff. 



Clausilia brevior var. addisoni nov. 



Larger than C. brevior, alt. 16-18^, diam. 4^ mm., more 

 coarsely striated, especially on the last whorl; three palatal plicae 

 only. This form I at first considered to be the var. tetraptyx 

 Mlldff^., having received but one specimen from Mr. Hirase. A 

 large series in the collection of Mr. Addison Gulick shows it to 

 be distinct. It is viviparous. 



Kagashima, Satsuma, in southern Kiusiu (Gulick coll.). 



Clausilia hondaua n. sp. PL XXIV, figs. 13-lS. 



Shell rimate, fusiform, dark brown, sculptured with fine but 

 sharp striiB, which are sometimes perceptibly coai'ser on the back 

 of the last whorl ; apex globose, the first three whorls of about 

 equal diameter, second whorl higher than the third. Whorls 10^ 

 to 11|-, the last compressed laterall ^'. Aperture but little oblique, 

 a trifle retracted above and below, pyriform or quadi'angular- 

 pyriform, the sinulus high and well defined; peristome rather 

 widely reflexed, somewhat thickened, continuous, the upper margin 

 shortly free and slightly or not emarginate. Superior lamella 

 subvertical, compressed, continuous with the spiral lamella. 

 Inferior lamella transversely converging to the other, strongly 

 44 




678 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



spiral within, not emerging upon the lip, Subeolumellar lamella 

 emerging, nearly or quite attaining the margin. Principal plicae 

 rather long; palatal plicre seven or fewer, the upper two curved, 

 diverging forward from the principal, longer than the others 

 except the lower one. Clausilium strongly cu^'ved, short, broader 

 and thickened distally, emarginate posteriorly on the columellar 

 margin (PI. XXV, figs. 42, 43, 44). 



Alt. 21, diam. 4.5, longest axis of aperture 4.6 mm. 



Alt. 18, diam. 4, longest axis of aperture 4 mm. 



Boshiu ; Suruga coast (F. Stearns). 



This species stands between C oostoma and C. brevior in size, 

 and has tlie slender apical whorls and therefore concave-sided spire 

 of the latter, which differs in being more obese with a difi^erent- 

 shaped aperture. It is probably nearest to C nikkoeiuis Mlldff. , 

 but that species, from the description, must be even more slender 

 and with the inferior lamella reaching the margin of the peristome, 

 Avhich is not at all the case in C. hondana. Were it not for this 

 differential feature I would not distinguish my shells from Dr. 

 von Moellendorfl's species. The clausilium is much like that of 

 C. brevior. 



Of five specimens opened, no two quite agree in the palatal 

 folds, and some are so different that one could scarcely believe 

 them variations of one species were not all the other characters, 

 including the clausilium, quite identical in the series. The follow- 

 ing variations occurred: 



(a) Palatal plicse seven, as above described (figs. 13-15). 



(6) Palatal plicii} three, two above, one below, the third, fourth, 

 fifth and sixth wanting (fig. 18). 



(c) Palatal plicse four, the lower and two upper undiminished, 

 the third small, a foldless space below it (fig. 17). 



(d) Palatal plicie three, a very low but distinct, straight luuella 

 running from the second to the lower plica (fig. 16). 



These variations seem enough to make several species of, but I 

 feel confident that they belong to one species. Specimens a and 

 b are from Boshiu, c and d from Suruga. 

 Clausilia subjaponica n. si>. 



General appearance of C. japonica Crosse. Whorls 12 to 13^, 

 the apex very obtuse, not tapering as in japonica, and the attenu- 

 ated portion of the spire is thicker. Aperture with thickened, re- 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 679 



flexed peristome, the superior lamella separated by a hiatus from the 

 spiral lamella; subcolumellar lamella emerging, runuiug to the mar- 

 gin. Principal plica short, extending but slightly or not at all in- 

 ward beyond the upper palatal plica. Palatal plicte four, the upper 

 quite long, the lower bow-shaped or arched, the two ends bent 

 downward ; the two intermediate plicse short. Clausilium narrower 

 than in C. japonica, the palatal margin obliquely sloping toward 

 the apex, which is thickened and obtusely rounded; columellar 

 margin slightly excised or subemarginate near the filament, or 

 merely tapering there. 



Length 28, diam. 6 mm. 



Length 28, diam. 5h mm. 



Length 23, diam. 5i mm. 



Ibuki, Omi (Mr. y" Hirase). 



The shell does not differ strongly from C. japonica, certain 

 forms of which have the superior and spiral lamellie disconnected, 

 and sometimes there are four palatal plicre; but the shaj^e of the 

 lower palatal plica or fold is different, it being short and oblique 

 in C. japonica, not arched as in this species. The shape of the 

 clausilium, however, is strikingly unlike in the two species, that of 

 G. japonica {-\- nipjjonensis + kohensis) being constantly broader, 

 with pointed apical end, in specimens examined from some four- 

 teen localities. This will be suitably illustrated in a future com- 

 munication, as the space on my plates does not allow figuring at 

 this time. 



Section HEMIPH.EDUSA Bttg. 

 (^ Group of C. validiuscula.) 

 Clausilia Nolani n. sp. PI. XXV, figs. 19, 20, 21. 



Shell rimate, fusiform, attenuated above, sohd, of a dark- 

 brown color; distinctly but finely striate. Whorls 10, moderately 

 convex, separated by impressed sutures, the outlines of the spire 

 somewhat concave above; last whorl a little compressed. Aper- 

 ture squarish-ovate, hardly oblique; sinulus sliort, retracted; 

 peristome brownish, expanded, subreflexed and thickened, contin- 

 uous and free above, and slightly or not emarginate there. Supe- 

 rior lamella somewhat oblique, very widely separated from the spiral 

 lamella, attaining the margin. Inferior lamella scarcely emerg- 

 ing, but slightly visible from in fi-ont, bifurcate and straightened 




680 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



within. Subcolumellar lamella not emerging. Principal plica 

 strong, visible within the aperture, where it even approaches the 

 lip, extending inward but slightly beyond the palatal plicse. 

 Palatal plicje two, parallel, rather long, diverging from the prin- 

 cipal plica anteriorly, and nearly ventral in position. No luneJla. 



Alt. 15.5, diam. 3.5, longest axis of aperture 4 mm. 



Fukura, Awaji Island (Mr. Y, Hirase). 



This species has much the form and color of the otherwise very 

 different C. aurantiaca. It differs from C. caryosioma Mlldff. in 

 having no punctiform plica between the two palatals, and in 

 having the superior lamella very widely separated from the spiral 

 lamella ; from C. interlamellaris v. Mart, in the wholly immersed 

 subcohimellar lamella, disconnected superior and spiral lamellae, 

 and in having two, not four, palatal plicte. C. firacUlspira Mlldff., 

 described from Kobe, differs in being smaller, with three palatal 

 plica?, and continuous superior and spiral lamella?. C. validhiscida 

 var. hilamellai'i Bttg., of Kiusiu, has three palatal plica? and is a 

 larger shell. 



The wide hiatus between the superior lamella and the spiral 

 lamella is characteristic of this species, which is named in honor 

 of the editor of the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia. 

 Clausilia tosana n. sp. I'l. XXV, figs. 22, 23, 24, 25, 41. 



Shell small, slender, fusiform, solid, distinctly attenuated and 

 with concave outlines above ; light brown ; finely, rather irregu- 

 larly striate. Whorls 9 to 10^, the upper ones convex, last three 

 less so, the last whorl compressed, tapering, becoming free for a 

 shoH distance in hout (like a " Ci/IindreUa"). Aperture slightly 

 oblique, pyriforra, the sinulus a little retracted; peristome con- 

 tinuous, expanded, somewhat reffexed, thickened and white. 

 Superior lamella small and rather low, oblique, attaining the mar- 

 gin, continuous with the spiral lamella, though there is a depres- 

 sion at their junction. Inferior lamella not emerging, hardly visi- 

 ble in a front view, but seen to be strong when viewed obliquely ; 

 inside it ascends almost vertically, and is stouter below. Sub- 

 columellar lamella very deeply immersed. Inside the spiral and 

 subcolumellar lamella^ terminate on the ventral side and are of 

 about equal length, while the inferior lamella is slightly shorter. 

 Principal plica strong, visible within the aperture, ascending to a 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 681 



lateral position. Palatal plicce lateral, the upper rather long aud 

 curved dowu at its outer end, lower plica shorter but well devel- 

 oped, two small, short, contiguous plicae (or sometimes one plica) 

 midway between them. Clausilium rather long, with parallel 

 sides and thin rounded apex ; posterior end tapering (PI. XXV, 

 %• 41). 



Length 12.2, diam. 2.5 mm. 



Length 10.5, diam. 2.5 mm. 



Ushirohawa, Tosa, Shikoku Island (Mr. Y. Hirase). This 

 little species differs notably from the allied C. caryodoma and 

 C. (/racilispira in the produced last whorl, the aperture standing 

 out somewhat like that of a Diaphora or TJrocoptls, though only 

 shortly. The spire is more attenuated than in those species. It 

 is very solid and strong for so small a ClausUta. The specimens 

 vary a good deal in size. Types are Xo. 79,320 coll. Acad. Xat. 

 Sciences, from Xo. 550 of Mr. Hirase' s register. 



{Group of C. aurantiaca.') 

 Clausilia shikokuensis n. ?p. PI. XXV. figs. 30, 31, 32. 



Shell rimate, fusiform, somewhat inflated, attenuated and with 

 concave outlines above; solid; of a rather bright orange-brown 

 color; finely, rather obsoletely striated, the last whorl more 

 strongly and sharply so. Whorls about 10^, moderately convex, 

 separated by impressed sutures, the last whorl compressed laterally, 

 shortly solute. Aperture ovate, somewhat oblique, the sinulus 

 rather high and retracted ; peristome orange-brown, reflexed and 

 thickened, continuous, slightly emarginate above. Superior 

 lamella somewhat oblique, rather strong, continuous with the spiral 

 lamella. Inferior lamella scarcely emerging, inconspicuous in 

 the front view, but becoming strong and thickened within; viewed 

 obliquely from below it is seen to be distinctly bifurcate. Sub- 

 columellar lamella not emerging, invisible from in front, but seen 

 in an oblique view. Principal plica visible within the mouth, 

 extending inward a little beyond the lunella. Lunella lateral, 

 well curved, especially above, where it is continued backward in 

 and quite united with the anterior end of a short upper palatal 

 fold, being thus somewhat irregularly bow-shaped. Clausilium 

 narrow, tongue-like. 



Alt. 10, diam. 3.8, longest axis of aperture 3.5 mm. 




682 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Ushirohawa, prov. Tosa, Shikoku Island Qlr. Y. Hirase). 



This species seems most nearly allied to C. irjnobilu Sykes and 

 C. subaurantiaca Pils. The former species, also from Shikoku 

 Island, differs in the emerging inferior and subcolumellar lamellae; 

 is rather less attenuated above, judging by the figure, but is of 

 about the same size.^ C. subaurantiaca is a more slender, smoother 

 species, in which the straighter luuella is united with the middle 

 of the upper palatal plica. In C. avrantiaca Bttg. the lunella 

 is I-shaped, and ventral in position, quite unlike the bow-like and 

 lateral lunella of C. shikokuensis. 



EXPLANATION^ OF PLATES. 



(Figs. 2, 5, 8, 10, 14, 20, 23, 24, 31 are natural size ; the others enlarged.) 



Plate XXIV. 



Figs. 1, 2, 3. Clausula (Euphceditsa) comes n. sp. 



Figs. 4, 5, 6. Clausilia (Eupluedusa) monelasmus n. sp. 



Figs. 7, 8, 9. Clausilia (section ?) iotajityx n. sp. 



Figs. 10, 11, 12. Clausilia ( Tij ran nop heed usa) Mikado u. sp. 



Figs. 13, 14, 15. Clausilia {Stereopluedusa) hondana n. sp. , type. 



Figs. 16, 17. Clamilia {Slereophcedusa) hondana varieties, 



prov, Suruga. 

 Fig. 18. Clausilia (Stereojihcedusa) hondana variety, Bo- 



shiu. 



Plate XXV. 



Figs. 19, 20, 21. Clausilia ( Hemip/uedtisa) Nolani u. sp. 



Figs. 22, 23, 24, 25. Clausilia {Hemip heed usa) tosana n. sp. 



Figs. 26, 28. Clausilia mo7iekwiius. Inner view of clausilium. 



Fig. 27. Clausilia monelasmus. Columellar view of clau- 



silium. 



Fig. 29. Clausilia monelasmus. Outer and basal view of 



clausilium. 



Figs. 30, 31, 32. Clausilia {Hemiphcedusa) shikokuensis u. sp. 



Figs. 33, 34. Clausilia I^Zapty.v) Hirasei Pils. Clausilium 

 in profile from palatal side, and view of inside. 



^ In the figure of C. if/nobilis, Proc. ^lalao. Soc. Lend.,. I, p. 202, fig. 5, 

 the lunella is represented as connected with the plica principnlis. Such a 

 structure would be unique in Japanese HtmipfuvdiisiP, but I think it is 

 probably an error of the artist, and no such connection really exists. 




1900.] 



Figs. 



Fig. 



Fig. 



Fig. 



Fig. 



Fig. 



Fig. 



Figs. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



683 



35. 36. ClausiUa (Eaphcedusa) comes. Inner views of 

 the clausilium. 



37. Clausilia (^Tyramiopha'dma) Mikado. Inner 



view of the clausilium. 



38. Clausilia (Tyninnophcedusa) Mikado. Clau- 



silium from columellar side. 



39. Clausilia ( Tynuinophcediisa) Mikado. Clau- 



silium from outside. 



40. Clausilia (section ?) iotaptyx. Clausilium from 



inside. 



41. Clausilia (Hemijjhcedusa) tosana. Clausilium 



from inside. 



42. Clausilia (Stereophcedusa) hondana. Clausilium 



from columellar side. 

 43, 44. Clausilia (Stei-eopJuedusa) hondana. Clausilium 

 from inside. 




684 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [190(>. 



NoVEMBEPv 6. 



Mr. Charlis Morris iu tlie Chair. 

 Fifteen persons present. 



November 13. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D. , in the Chair. 



Thirty-three persons present. 



Dr. Henry Skinner made a communication on protective 

 resemblances in insects. (No abstract.) 



November 20. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, ]\I.D., in the Chair. 



Thirty-seven persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : 



" A Review of the Genera and Species of American Sna^ies, 

 North of Mexico," by Arthur Erwin Brown. 



" Osteology of the Psittaci," by Dr. R. ^Y. Shufeldt. 



A paper by Miss Caroline A. Burgin on the edible and poi- 

 sonous mushrooms of the neighborhood was read by Dr. A. AV. 

 Miller. (No abstract. ) 



November 27. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D. , iu the Chair. 

 Sixty-nine persons present. 



A paper entitled " Notes on a Geological Section from Iguala 

 to Sau Miguel de Totolapa, State of Guerrero, Mexico," by 

 Charles E. Hall, was presented for publication. 



The death of Otto Staudinger, a correspondent, was announced. 



Prof. O^car C. S. Carter made a communication on the petri- 

 fied forest and cave-dwellings of Arizona. (No abstract.) 



T. Percival Gersou, M. D. , was elected a member. 



The following was ordered to be printed : 




1900.] NATUEAL SCIE^"CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 685 



THE BIDDTJLPHOID FORMS OF NORTH AMERICAN DIATOMACEJE. 

 BY CHARLES S. BOYER, A.M. 



The following article was prepared at the request of tlie editors 

 of the Systematic Botany of XoHh America. It is intended to be a 

 description of all forms of the group found along the coast, ex- 

 cluding the West Indies, and of the fossil diatoms of California, 

 Virginia, Maryland and Xew Jersey. Some, although not new, 

 have not been hitherto described, while others have appeared in 

 volumes difficult of access or long out of print. In the examina- 

 tion of the bibliography the confusion appeared to be so great that 

 it was thought best to describe all forms from specimens in my 

 collection. This labor has been lightened by the use of the 

 Habirshaio Catalogue and of the admirable Sylloge Algarum of 

 De Toni. All citations given in either of these works have been, 

 with a few exceptions, carefully examined. It has been my pur- 

 pose to give the first description and figure published and to add 

 one or two citations to the best illustrations, especially to Schmidt's 

 Atlas. 



The classification adopted is, for the most part, that of Dr. 

 Van Heurck and Prof. H. L. Smith. Xo changes have been 

 made in the nomenclature except those demanded by the law of 

 priority. 



My thanks are due to Mr. F. J. Keeley, for slides and photo- 

 graphs ; to Mr. Lewis Woolmau, for numerous deposits from the 

 artesian wells and other localities, and, especially, to Mr. John A. 

 Shulze, for many vials of finely prepared material and for speci- 

 mens contributed from his collection.^ 



^ For th^ history of the growth and reprodnction of these forms the stu- 

 dent is referred to Kiitzing. Rabenhorst, Van Heurck and Piitzer. Jly own 

 observations have been confined to Biddulphia Icevis, a gathering of which, 

 sent me by Mr. T. Cbalkley Palmer, from Reedy Island, Delaware river, 

 admirably illustrated the special cells corresponding to the ''sporangium " 

 of authors. Certain of the ordinary cells had apparently assumed a new 

 function, expanding into spherical bodies three or four times the diameter 




686 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Family DIATOMACE^. 



Sub-Family CRYPTO-RAPHIDIE.E. 



Tribe BIDDULPHIE^E. 



Frustules usually concatenate, more often found free. Zoual 

 view well developed, generally quadrangular. Valvular view 

 elliptical, angular or suborbicular. Surface varying from finely 

 granular or punctate to coarsely reticulate. Angles well devel- 

 oped and usually conspicuous, frequently elevated into horns or 

 processes. 



Sub-Tribe I. Isthmiae. 



Frustules large, trapezoidal in zonal view, adherent to each 

 other by short mucous stipes, forming irregularlv zigzag filaments. 

 Represented by but one genus. 



1. Isthmia. 



Characters of sub-tribe. 



Sub-Tribe II. Biddulphiae. 



Frustules coucatenate or attached by alternate angles. Valves 

 with or without processes, spines or costa-, but without trausvei*se 

 internal septa. Surface definitely marked with reticulations, 

 granules or puncta. 



2. Biddulphia. 



Angles usually elevated into horns or processes or distinguished 

 by markings from the central portion. 



of the normal cell and terminating the filaments. These spherical cells 

 contained granular masses and covrespouded to the enlarged cells of Jfdosira 

 variaiis. From observations made in Eunofiir pfcfi/iulis for several years, 

 I believe that the granular masses found in many cells while in an absolutely 

 fresh condition are extruded by the partial separation of the connective 

 zones, and that there are formed later either new frustules by rejuvenescence 

 or by conjugation with other masses external to the filaments. The cells 

 from which these granular bodies emerge, after forming into one or two 

 larger spheres, are the fertile cells and are found in either larger or smaller 

 filaments. Examinations of material gathered at hourly intervals for many 

 successive days lead me to disbelieve in the theory of gradual diminution 

 of the frustules, and rather to accept the couchision that they really increase 

 in size and that the flexibility of the connective zone will allow of a varia- 

 tion. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 687 



Sub-Tribe III. Terpsinoese. 



Frustules regularl}'- concatenate. Valves distinguished by tlie 

 presence of transverse internal septa. Surface without spines. 



3. Porpeia. 



Valves elevated into a rounded projection at each end. Zonal 

 view showing septa which are straight or curved. 



4. Terpsinoe. 



Surface of valve flat and indefinitely granulate. Outline roore 

 or less undulate. Septa curved at the ends and usually resem- 

 bling musical notes. 

 6. Hydrosera. 



OutHne of valve elliptical or triangular, the angles separated 

 from the centre by short septa. A single indefinite and indistinct 

 septum usually found projecting from one of the sides. 



6. Anaulus. 



Valves elliptical or arcuate, with prominent and robust septa. 



7. Huttonia. 



Vah'es with truncate processes and transverse partial septa. 



Sub-Tribe IV. Hemiaulidiese. 



Valves usually distinguished by the separation of central part 

 from the ends or angles by costse or depressions ; processes often 

 present, varying mucli in length and frequently tipped with a 

 curved spine. Valves elliptical or angular, coarsely punctate. 



8. Hemiaulus. 



Valves elliptical or triangular, with or without transverse costre. 

 Processes prominent. 



9. Ploiaria. 



Valves without processes, inflated at the centre. 



Sub-Tribe V. Eucampieae. 



Frustules concatenate in straight or spiral lines. Surface of 

 valve undulating. Markings granular, generally indefinite. Con- 

 nective zone frequently annulate. 



10. Graya. 



Valves elliptical, with undulating surface. 




688 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



11. Eucampia. 



Valves elliptical with undulating surface, and connected in a 

 spiral chain. 



Sub-Tribe I. Isthmiae. 



I. ISTHMIA Ag. (1832). 



Valves dissimilar and unequal, elliptical or ovate. In one valve 

 the surface is elevated at one end into a protuberance or " beak;" 

 in the other there is simjjly a gradual elevation toward one end. 

 Surface coarsely cellular, except at the " beak," where the cells 

 are much smaller. The ultimate structure of each cell appears to 

 be that of a " delicate, perforated membrane," of more or less 

 elliptical outline and with various arrangements of the perfora- 

 tions.' 



In zonal view the frustules are more or less rhomboidal or trape- 

 zoidal, without definite relation between the width and length. 



Connective zone varies greatly in width and is frequently per- 

 sistent, so that at the same time what appears at first to constitute 

 one frustule may be found to contain the two older valves whh 

 their connective zones and two new valves with, possibly, their 

 connective zones. 



Analysis of Species. 



Valves costate, 1. nervosa. 



Valves not costate : 



Rhomboidal in zonal view, 2. obliquata. 



Irregularly ridged as to one valve, . . . • . . 3. minima. 



1. Isthmia nervosa Kutz. 



Isthmia nervosa Kiitz., Bacill. (1844), 137, PI. 19, fig. 5 ; Schmklt, PI. 



135; PI. 145, figs. 10, 11.. 

 Biatoma obliquatiim Lyiig, Hydropbyton Dan., 181, in part. 

 Isthmia obliquata (Lyug) Ag., Cousp., 55, in part. 



"^ Valves traversed from the margin toward the centre by costa?, 

 which vary in number from 10 to 50. Av. 1. of fr. .264 mm., 

 av. 1. of v. .198 mm. Cells of the connective zone much larger 

 on the border. 



^ For details of structure v. Xelson and Karop's "Notes of Finer Struc- 

 ture." etc., Journal of Quekitt Club, Ser. 2, Vol. 3. p. 2(>9, and Vol. 3, p. 

 41; also, Dr. Stokes on "Minute Structure of Certain Diatoms'' in Ob- 

 server, 1894, p. 369; and on ''The Structure of the Diatom Girdle." by 

 Palmer and Keeley, in the current volume of the Pkocekpixgs of the 

 Academy, p. 465. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 689 



Coast of California, where it is abundant; Leete's Island, Conn. 

 (Teny); Rockaway, L. I. (Terry); Riviere du Loup (Lewis); 

 L. I. Sound (Lewis); Newport, R. I., in situ (Lewis); Boston 

 Harbor (Bailey) ; Portland, Me. (J. A. Shulze) ; Hudson Strait 

 (J. A. Shulze). Its occurrence on the Atlantic coast is extremely 

 rare. Fossil in the Miocene deposits of California. 



2, Isthmia obliquata (J. E. Smith). 



Conferva ohliquata Smith, Eng. Bot. (1814), PI. 1869. 

 Dintoma obliquatum Lyng, Hydrophyt. Dan., 181, in part. 

 Isthmia oMiguata (Lyng) Ag., Consp., 55. 



Isthmia eiiervis Ehr., Inf., 209 ; Schmidt, PI. 136, figs. 1, 3, 6, 7. 

 Isthmiella enervis (Ehr.) Cleve, Diat. Arct., 10. 



Valves as in nervosa, except that the costce are absent. The 

 cells of the " beak" are not usually so small relatively as in 

 nervosa, while those of the connective zone are smaller and the 

 reticulations of the entire surface appear more angular. 



Honduras (Janisch, Rabenhorst), and probably to be occa- 

 sionally found southward. As Ralfs remarks, nervosa appears to 

 be the northei'n and " enervis'' the southern species.' 



3. Isthmia minima B. and H. 



Isthmia minima Biiley and Harvey, Wilkes' Expedition (1862), 176, 



PI. 9, fig. 11; Schmidt, PI. 145, fig. 9. 

 Isthmiella minima (B. and H. ) De Toni, 835. 

 Isthmia Lindigiana Grun. and Eul., Hedwigia, 6, 29; Schmidt, PI. 



145, figs. 1, 2, 3. 

 Isthmia capensis Grim., Schmidt, Pi. 136, fig. 4, PI. 145, fig. 4. 



Frustules smaller and usually more elongated than in nervosa 

 and obliquata. Opposite valves showing greater inequalities, one 

 valve almost invariably having ridged elevations. Connective zone 

 with rather minute cells and usually without a border of larger 

 cells. Cells of valve average Ih in .01 mm. Cells of connective 

 zone average 3 in .01 mm. L. of fr. .231 mm, L. of v. .013 

 mm. Secondary markings consist of minute puncta arranged in 

 longitudinal rows within the reticulations. Certain valves from 

 Barbados which appear similar to the present species are without 

 doubt distinct, having a rather coarse cellular reticulation within 

 the cells which thus appear beautifully stellate. 



Not uncommon in Campeachy Bay, Honduras and southward. 



^ The forms usually known as nervosa and enervis are, as lemarked by 

 Wm. Smith, "inextricably confused," but the figure given bj' J. E. Smith 

 in English Botany, Plate 1869, under the name Conferva obliquata, is 

 undoubtedly enervis, as it does not show the costse, and, by the law of prior- 

 ity, the specific name of obliquata should be retained for the forms with- 

 out costse. 




690 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Sub-Tribe II. BiddulphisB. 



BIDDULPHIA Gray (1S31) em. V. H. (1885). 



Valves usually -svitli processes which are globular, conical or 

 cylindrical, obtuse or truncate, or with spines imitating .slender 

 processes. When processes are absent, the angles or ends of 

 valves, either by elevation or by variation in punctation, resemble 

 them. 



The following analytical key to the species is artificial. AVhile 

 the uncertainty as to the relations of these forms exists, it is difficult 

 to group them. At the same time, it will be seen that the genus 

 divides itself, more or less naturally, into groups represented by 

 such forms as Biddulphiana, Mobiliensis, Favus, turgida, Circinus, 

 arctica, vesiculosa, Tahellarium, trisulca, eondecora, parvula and 

 semicircular is. 



It seems unnecessary to separate the forms once included under 

 Denticella and Odontella. The genus Triceratium is necessarily 

 abandoned, the genus Amphitetras is no longer useful and the only 

 two gx'oups which appear to be sufficiently distinct are Zygoceros 

 and Cerataulus, the former differing, however, from Biddulphia 

 only in the absence of true processes, while the latter is Biddul- 

 phoid in form, but appears to be a transition to Aullscus. I have, 

 therefore, followed Prof. H. L. Smith and Dr. Van Heurck in 

 uniting all the genera mentioned under Biddulphia. Although, 

 as has been remarked, an enormous number of species is thus 

 included, the distribution of many, hitherto considered as belong- 

 ing to Tricendiurn, under nou-Biddiilphoid genera will probably 

 result in a greater restriction than would be the case if most 

 angular forms are classified as Triceratia.* 



Analysis of Species. 



1. Valves divided into three or more parts. Processes globular 



(Biddulphia proper). 



Divisions of valve not elevated, ... 1. Blddu/jthiana. 



Divisions of valve elevated into rounded protuberances : 



Cells regularly disposed and rounded, . . 2. tridens. 



CeUs irregularly disposed, pustuliforra, . 3. pustulata. 



* Various authors give "Bermuda "as a locality of fossil species. Kefer- 

 ence to the ishinds of Bermuda is a mistake, as they are of coral formation, 

 aud contain no fossil deposits. It should be regarded as indicating Notting- 

 ham, JMd., and its immediate vicinity, which is situated in what is known as 

 "Bermuda Hundred." 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 691 



2, Valves not divided into parts. Usually furnished with spines. 

 Processes more or less conical and obtuse. Surface not coavsely 



reticulate ( Odontella and DenticeUa, in part) : 

 Spines very numerous and prominent : 



Valves broadly elliptical 4. multicornis. 



Valves narrowly elliptical, .... 5. Brittoniana. 

 Spines few but long and prominent : 

 Spines usually twp on each valve : 



Projecting from central elevation, . . 6. longicruris. 

 Projecting from small conical elevations near the ex- 

 tremities, 7. Mohiliensis. 



Spines usually six or eight, .... 8. longispina. 

 Spines small, usually few, or sometimes "wanting: 

 Valves elliptical : 



With central elevation, 9. aurita. 



Without marked elevation, .... 10. obtusa. 

 With central depression or simply convex : 



Spines absent, 11. Roperiana. 



Spines in circlet at centre, .... 12. Argus. 

 Spines one or two near opposite margins : 



Surface Avith spurs, .... 13. Edimrdsii. 

 Surface without fine spui's, . . 14. Cookiana. 

 Surface divided by two transverse hyaline lines, 



15. interrupta. 

 Spines curved, one near each process, . . 16. granidata. 

 Spines three to six, valve divided longitudinally, 



17. seticulosa. 

 Valves rhomboidal or angular, surface with small spurs : 

 Processes hornlike, obtuse, valves 3-4- angled, 



18. spinosa. 



Processes small, sh-^rt, 19. Rhombus, 



Valves suborbicular, 20. suborbicularis. 



Valves orbicular, 21. Smithii. 



3. Valves usually as in 2, but with surface coarsely reticulate 



('iriceratium, in part): 

 Processes conical and obtuse : 

 Valves angular : 



3-4-angled, 1. of s. 15 mm. or less, . . 22. Favus. 

 3-7-angled, 1. of s. usually exceeding 15 mm., 



23. grandis. 




^9- PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



3-anglefl, small, with more acute processes, 24. acuta. 

 o-4-auglecl, sides convex, usually with stout spiues, 



25. Robertsiana. 

 5-angled, small, sides turgid, . , 26. Camjieachiana. 

 Valves elliptical or rhomboidal: 

 Without spines: 



Rhomboidal with turgid sides, reticulations 2 in 



.01 mm., 27. duhia. 



Rhomboidal or elliptical, reticulations 1 to 1^7 in 



.01 mm., 28. reticulata. 



With two or three spines near the margin: 



Surface depressed at centre, . . 29. Peruviana. 

 Surface not depressed, 30. Keeleyi. 



4. Valves with cylindrical, truncate processes, appearing hyaline 



at the apex ( Cerataulus, in part) : 

 Valves angular: 



Reticulations coarse, hexagonal, . . . 31. con-similis. 

 Reticulations fine : 



Processes short, truncate, , . . 32. convexiuscula. 

 Processes lai'ge, elevated, .... 33. orbicidata. 

 Valves elliptical (or rarely angular) : 



Reticulations coarse, 34. verrucosa. 



Reticulations fine: 



AVith two stout spines, surface spurred, . 35. turgida. 



AVithout strong spiues, 36. CalifoDiica. 



Surface without spurs: 



Valves small, without spines, . . 37. oralis. 

 Valves small, with two small spiues, one near each 



side, 38. hrvis. 



Valves large, without spines, . . 39. TJiumii. 



5. Valves with processes replaced l\v spines (^Zygoceros) : 



Valves elliptical, 40. Circinus. 



Valves suborbicular, 41. quadriconm. 



6. Valves without true processes. Reticulations more or less 



angular or irregular, those of the angles ditloring from those 

 of the centi'al portion (Triceratium): 



Valves elliptical, 42. Bahrna. 



Valves angular, with or without central elevations, 



43. arctica. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 693 



Valves triangular, with central and angular elevations, 



44. Heilpriniana. 



7. Valves mostly as in 6, but usually with very short, truncated 



processes, which are hyaline at the ends (Amjjhitetras) : 

 Valves without web-like markings: 



4-5-angleu, 45. vesiculosa. 



Rhomboidal, 46. decipiens 



Valves with web-like markings: 



Markings producing appearance of inscribed square : 

 Reticulations about 5 in .01 mm., . . 47. elegans. 

 Eeticulations about 2^ in .01 mm., . 48. biquadrata. 

 Markings not^producing appearance of square : 



Valves 4-5-angled, 49. Pentacrinus. 



8. Valves angular, the angles not elevated, separated from central 



part by more or less definite costte ( Trice rat ium ) : 

 Costse dividing angles from centre, . . . 50. Kainii. 

 Costse extending but short distances from sides: 



Of the same length, usually curved, . 51. Tahellarium. 



Indefinite in length and direction, . . 52. alternans. 



9. Valves with round, scattered puncta. Angles elevated into 



rounded processes (Triceratiwn) : 



Without septa, ... 53. trisidca. 



With partial septa, ' 54. costulata. 



10. Valves without marked elevation of surface and not divided 

 by costre or otherwise. Angles without processes. Spines 

 usually absent. Puncta generally indefinite, irregular and 

 unequal ( Triceratium) : 

 Valves flat : 



Puncta in radiating, undulating rows, . 55. condecora. 

 Puncta rounded or subquadrate, not undulating, outline 



suborbicular, 56. -subrotundota. 



Outline triangular, with more or less unequal sides 

 which are often sinuous, . . . 57. Americana. 



Outline 5-6-augled, 58. Antillanun. 



Puncta interspersed with much finer puncta, 



59. interpunctatum. 

 Puncta of one angle much smaller than those in the other 



two, 60. hebetata. 



45 




694 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Puncta crowded at the angles and in parallel rows at the 



margin, . 61. heterojwi'a. 



Valves with slight elevations at the angles and often at the 

 centre: 

 Puncta much finer at the angles, . . . 62. tessellata. 



Puncta nearly equal, 63. Reticulum. 



Puncta in-egular, unequal and scattered, . 64. inelegans. 



11. Valves as in 10, but with surface mostly hyaline, except at 



the centre and angles where the puncta are minute, 



65. parvula. 



12. Valves semicircular or arcuate, more or less elevated at the 



ends, and with mostly coarse, radiant puncta, 



66. semicircularis. 



13. Valves elliptical, coarsely punctate, usually traversed by hya- 



line lines: 



Hyaline lines prominent, 67. Testudo. 



Hyaline lines indistinct, one at each end, . 68. Shulzei. 



1. Biddulphia Biddulphiana (Smith). 



Corifcrvd lUddnlphiana Smith, Ensr. Bot. (1807), PI. 1762, (upper figs). 

 Biddnlphlii indchella Gray, Arr. Brit. Plants, I, 294; Schmidt, PI. 118, 



figs. 2G-32, PI. 121, figs. 1, 2, 

 Dintomd BiddulpManum Ag. 

 Diatoma inter sstitiule Ag. 

 Diatoma Uberum Ag. 

 Denticella Biddulphia Ehr. 



Biddulphia trilocularis, quinquelocularis and septemlociilaris Kiitz. 

 B. Australis Mont. 

 B. elongata Menengh. 

 B. fasciata, unifaseiata and transversa Wigand. 



Valve, in general outline, elliptical. Surface convex, divided 

 tranversely by two or more costre. Sides undulating, the undula- 

 tions, which are sometimes angular, corresponding to the divisions 

 of the surface. At each end a process rises which is more or less 

 globular, constricted at the base. The centre of the valve, usually 

 not so elevated as the processes, bears a few rather short spines. 

 Surface reticulated, the reticulations coarse, equalling .003 mm. in 

 diam., except at the centre, where they are usually smaller and 

 arranged more or less concentrically around a somewhat elliptical, 

 panduriform or oblong space which is transverse to the major 

 axis of the valve. On the processes the reticulations are minute. 

 Between the coarse reticulations occur minute puncta. 



Zonal view quadrangular, the connective zone having smaller 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 695 



reticulations, about 5 in .01 mm., arrangod in nearly parallel 

 vertical rows. L. of v. averages .115 mm. 



A species variable in size, outline and the number of costte. In 

 a specimen from Campeachy Bay the costte are connected by 

 anastomosing lines. 



Common along the Atlantic coast, especially southward. Fossil 

 in the Miocene deposits of California and New Jersey, and in 

 later deposits at Pensauken, N. J., and the blue clay of the 

 Delaware river. 



2. Biddulphia tridens Ehr. 



Biddulphia tridens Ehr., AWiand. Ber. Akad., 1838, 129. 



Denticella tridens Ehr., Abhand. Ber. Akad. (1839), 73. 



Denticella tridentata Ebr., Abhand. Ber. Akad. (1844). 79. 



Denticella polymera E., Abhand. Ber. Akad. (1844), 266. 



Odontella polymera Kiitz., Bacilh, 137. 



Zycjoceros TuomeyiB&W., Sil. Jour. (1844), PI. 3, figs. 3, 4, 8. 



Denticella polymera (Ehr.) Bail., Sil. Jour. (1845), 342. 



Denticella simplex Shadb.. T. M. S (1854), PI. 1, fig. 16. 



Denticella margaritifera Shadb., T. M. S., PI. 1, fig. 17 (1854). 



Biddulphia tridentata Ehr., Mik., PL 18, fig. 52. 



Biddulphia Tuomeyi (Bail.), Roper, T. M. S. (1859), 8 ; Schmidt, PI. 



118, figs. 1-7, PI. 119, figs. 1-7, 15, 17. 

 Biddulphia elegantula Grev., T. M. S. (1865), 50. 



Valves rhombic-lanceolate, divided by septa into three or more 

 divisions, the centre one always largest, the undulations of the 

 sides corresponding to the divisions. Surface coarsely granular. 

 In zonal view the divisions of the valves are seen to consist of 

 more or less hemispherical elevations, becoming gradually smaller aa 

 a rule toward the ends. Processes usually rising higher than the 

 elevatioQS, varying from short to slender and generally inflated at 

 the base. From the central elevation two or more slender, rather 

 short spines arise, and frequently smaller spines are seen in the 

 other elevations. 



Variable in size, the valve, in the form of eleganinla, reaching a. 

 length of . 3 mm. 



The distinction between B. pulchella and B. tridens may be saidi 

 to consist chiefly in the surface reticulation, in the elevation of the 

 septate divisions and in the outline. In tridens, all of the septate' 

 divisions are usually more or less elevated, while in pulchella the- 

 central one only is so found. The outline of tridens is rhombic,, 

 while that of pulchella is elliptical. There are forms, especially 

 in the Redondo Beach (Cal. ) material, which appear to be inter- 

 mediate. 




696 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Common along the South Atlantic coast of Xorth America. 

 Fossil in Ihe Miocene deposits of California, Virginia, New Jersey 

 and St. Augustine, Fla. 



In a note on " Ehrenberg's Observtions on the Fossil Infu- 

 soria of Virginia and Maryland," etc., in Sil. Jour. (1845), Prof. 

 Bailey states (p. 204) that, in a letter received, Ehrenberg says 

 that Zygoceros (Biddulphia) Tuomeyi equals Denticella tridentata. 

 Ehrenberg (3fik., PI. 21, fig. 24) gives Biddulphia tridentata as 

 equaling Denticella tridens. The figure prevents it from being 

 considered as Biddulphia jndchella, as suggested by De Toni {SylL, 

 p. 870). 



Roper remarks: " In examining the synonymy of this species, 

 Ehrenberg's name of Denticella tridens appears to have the priority 

 as to date, but as it occurs not infrequently with only one lobe 

 and occasionally with ten or twelve, as shown in the Denticella poly- 

 mera of Am. Jour, of Science, Vol. xlviii, tab. iv, tig. 20, clearly 

 only a large specimen of the present form, the designation tridens 

 is so decidedly inapplicable that I am induced to retain that of 

 Tuomeyi, given by Prof. Bailey." The reason for the violation of 

 the law of priority I do not consider sufficient, because, in the first 

 place, a descriptive specific name cannot, in mauv cases, apply to all 

 variations, and, in the second place, because, if aU the variations 

 included by Roper and others are accepted as forms of one species, 

 it will be found that Ehrenberg's form of tridens is so abundant in 

 jeceut and fossil deposits that it may be considered a type form. 



Greville states that the form of elegantula ditiers from B. 

 Tuomeyi " in the almost filiform horns, not inflated at the base, 

 and which form a right angle with the base of the valve as in 

 Jlemiaulus.'^ In a specimen from the artesian well at Atlantic 

 City I have noticed that while one process is not inflated, the 

 other is as much so as in many type forms of B. trident. It 

 would appear that in some cases the process is extended after the 

 valve apparently intended to expand merely into an elevation, ard 

 that the inflation is occasionally accidental. As elegantula is 

 vai'iable in the number of inflations or lobes, there appears to be 

 no way of separating it from B. tridens. I have, therefore, con- 

 eluded to unite all the forms. 



A peculiar form, the photograph of which was kindly sent me by 

 Dr. Ward, of Poughkeepsie, shows the valve with three elevations 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 697 



and with short slender processes extending from much-inflated 

 bases which appear similar to the usual elevations. The valve is 

 arched longitudinally. In a form from Szakal, Hungary, the 

 arching of the valve is lateral. It may be considered doubtful 

 whether the numerous variations in B. tridens exceed those found 

 in many other species of Biddidphla. 



3. Biddulphia pustulata Brun. 



BkldulpMa pustulata Brun, Diat. Esp. Noiiv., 13 (1891), PI. 13, fig. 

 10. 



Valves rhombic-lanceolate, divided by septa into three or more 

 divisions, as in B. tridens, with the central division turgid. Sur- 

 face " with coarse, large, pustuliform granules, irregularly placed 

 or grouped, " which extend to the apices of the processes. Silex 

 robust and very thick, as in B. vlftata Gr. and St. In zonal view 

 the appearance of valve approaches very closely B. tridens. L. 

 of V. .09 to .11 mm. (From Brun's Di(d. Esp. Nouv., in part.) 



Fossil in Miocene deposit of Atlantic City, N. J. (Brun). 



4. BiddulpMa multicornis Grim. 



BiddulpMa m^ulticornis Grun., V. H. Syii. (1881), PI. 102, fig. 7. 

 Biddulj)hia multicornis var. Templum Brun., Schmidt's Atlas, PI. 173, 

 figs. 13, 14. 



Valve broadly elliptical-lanceolate, with rounded ends. Pro- 

 cesses short, obliquely truncate. Surface convex, finely reticu- 

 lated, the reticulations about 5 in .01 mm., with minute spurs at 

 intervals, as in B. turgida. 



Arranged in a single row along each edge of the valve are about 

 twelve large, flattened spines, tumid at the base, extending to the 

 opposite valve, which they closely embrace. L. of v. . 2 mm. 



A rare and singular species. The spines, which have the 

 appearance of coming from the interior of the valve, are so firmly 

 attached to the opposite valve that they leave scars upon it when 

 separated. 



Fossil in Miocene deposit of Redondo Beach, Cal. 



As no illustration of the valve view of either type form or va- 

 riety has been given, I am unable to distinguish between them. 

 In the very few specimens sent me by Mr. John A. Shulze, the 

 variations appear to be chiefly in size and in relative width of 

 val ve. 




698 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1^00. 



5. Biddulphia Brittoniana K. and S. 



BiddulpMa Brittoniana Kaia and Schultzft , Bull . Torr. Bot . Club (1889) , 

 208, PI. 102, fig. 1. 



Valves elliptical -lanceolate, slightly convex. Surface traversed 

 by transverse rows of indistinct puncta, about 10 in .01 mm., 

 extending to the ends of processes which are large, cylindrical, 

 truncate and curved in opposite directions. At the base of each 

 process one or two strong curved spines extend, meeting the surface 

 of the opposing valve of the next frustule and apparently acting 

 as braces. Around the margin and along the middle of the 

 valve extend rows of fine hairs which, meeting and interlacing 

 with those of the next valve, unite the two valves of different 

 frustules. 



L. of v. .214 mm. 



Fossil in the Miocene deposit of Atlantic City, X. J. 



6. Biddulphia longicruris Grcv. 



Bkldulphia longicruris Grev., T. M. S. (1859), 163, PI. 6, fij. 10; 

 Schmidt, PI. 118, fig. 10. 



Valve elliptical-lanceolate. Surface with a rounded elevation 

 from which project two or more long spines. Processes long, 

 obtuse, slightly inflated at the base. Surface witli rows of puncta 

 radiating from the centre. Ou the connective zone the puncta are 

 in vertical rows. 



L. of v. averages .033 mm. 



Near B. aurita, from which it is chiefly distinguished by the 

 much longer processes. 



Occasional on the Pacifit^ coast — " Califoruiau guano," Grev. 



7. Biddulphia Mobiliensis (Bail.) Grun. 



Biddulphia Mobiliensis (Bail.) Grun., V. H. Svn., PI. 101, figs. 4-6, PI. 



1U3, fig. .-1; Schmidt, PI. 122, figs. 20. 21. 

 Zi/j/oceros [Denficella n ^fobilie)<sis Bail., Mic. Obs., 40 (1830). 

 Biddulphia Baileyi \Vm. Smith, Bill. Diat., 'J, 50, PI. 45, fig. 322, 



PI. 62, fig. 322. 

 Zygoceroi Mobiliensis (Bail.) Ralfs, Biddulphia tenuis L. W. Bail., 



Biddulphia trinaeria L. W. Bail., Bi ntieilla Mobiliensin i^Bail.) 



Grun., Zygoecros occidentalis L. W. Bail., DerJicella triancria Bail. 



Valve elliptical-lanceolate. Surface convex with a flat central 

 portion, separated from the other part of valve by a sliirhtly ele- 

 vated ridge which extends in two more or less sigmoidal lines from 

 one process to the other. On opposite sides of this centnil portion, 

 and placed at distances variable in diflerent specimens from each 

 process, is a small, conical i)iojection from which extend one and 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHrA. 699 



occasionally two long, slender spines or bristles. Processes slender, 

 capitate, about .023 ram. in length or about half the length of 

 the spines. Surface of valve " delicately decussately-punctate," 

 the markings resembing those of Pleurosigma, about 15 in .01 

 mm. In zonal view the valve converges toward the central eleva- 

 tion. Frustules delicate, of a yellowish color, variable in size, 

 the length of valve in American specimens averaging .06G mm. 



Common in the Gulf of Mexico and southward; Savannah 

 (Bail.); St. Augustine, Fla. (Bail.) ; Trichoplankton of the North 

 Atlantic (Cleve) ; Fossil at Richmond, Atlantic City artesian well 

 and in the Pleistocene clay from artesian well at Norfolk, Va. 



8. BiddulpMa longispina Grun. 



Biddulphia longispina Grim., V. H. Syn., PI. 102, fig. 6 (1881). 

 Odoiitotropis longispina (Grun.), De Toni. 



Valve elliptical or elliptical-lanceolate, tapering as a frustum 

 into a narrowly elliptical-lanceolate flattened elevation surrounded 

 by a hyaline, unevenly notched ridge from which project robust, 

 hollow spines, 6 or 8 in number, about .092 mm. in length. From 

 each end of valve a slender, capitate process, about .046 mm. in 

 length, extends. Surface of valve traversed by rows of minute 

 granules, about 9 in .01 mm. on the elevation and 12 in .01 mm. 

 at the sides. The granules extend in transversely parallel rows 

 from a narrow median line to the edge of the crest and then 

 radial e toward the circumference. 



L. of V. .072 mm. 



The hyaline ridge in this species is not strictly a single keel, as in 

 Odontoiropls cristata and 0. eavlnata from the Mors deposit, but is 

 a double elevation enclosing an elliptical central portion* of valve. 

 The general structure, in this respect, resembles that of B. Mobi- 

 liensis (Bail.) Grun. 



Fossil at Redondo Beach and Santa Monica, Cal., and Atlantic 

 City, N. J. 



9. BiddulpMa aurita (Lyng) Brelj. 



Biddulphia aurita (Lyng) Breb., Consid. Diat., 12 (1838); Wm 

 Smith, Brit. Diat., ^, 49, PI. 45, fig. 319, front, fig. 319 ; V. H. Syn 

 PI. 98, figs. 4-9. ' 



Diatoma auritum Lyng, Hydrophyt. Dau., 182 (1819), PI. 62, fig. D. 



Odontella aurita (Lyng) Ag., Consp., 56. 



Deuticella aurita Ehr. 



Denticella gracilis Ehr. 



Zygoceros margaritaceum B. and H. 



Valve elliptical-lanceolate. Surface with an elevation at centre, 




700 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



generally more or less flattened at the top, from whicli usually a 

 few short spines project. Processes obtuse, inflated at the base. 

 Surface covered with rounded puncta, about 6 in .01 mm., radi- 

 ating from an obscure centre. In zonal view the frustule is quad- 

 rangular, the connective zone having vertical rows of parallel 

 puncta about 5 in .01 mm. Length of v. .082 mm. A vari- 

 able species. 



Common on the Atlantic and Pacific coasts. 



10. Biddulphia obtusa (KUtz.) Ralfs. 



nUldulphia ohtma (Kiitz.) Ralfs, Prit. Inf., 848 (1861). 



Odoatella obtusd Kiitz., Bacill., 137 (1844), PI. 18, 8, figs. 1-3, 6-S. 



Valve elliptical-lanceolate. Surface without marked central 

 elevation, the centre appearing usually flattened or somewhat 

 depressed. Processes obtuse and short, somewhat inflated at the 

 base. 



Very near B. aurita, from which it is chiefly distinguished by the 

 absence of central spines and by the shortness of the processes. 



As B. obtusa appears to include, however, according to various 

 authors, about all the forms whose processes are not acute, the 

 name is not particularly sigQificant. 



Atlantic and Pacific coasts. 



[Biddulphia subaequa (KUtz.) Ralfs.] 



Biddulphia sidxequa (Kiitz.) Ralfs, Prit. Inf., 848; Schmidt, PI. 141, 



fig. 11 (not var. Baltica, V. H. Syn., PL 100, figs. 5, 6). 

 Odontella subwqua Kiitz., Bicill., 137, PI. 18, figs. 4, 5. 



" Frustules oblong, very smooth, with minute lateral spines and 

 without any median elevation " (Kiitz.). 



Campeachy Bay (Schmidt). 



Prof. Smith remarks that both B. obtusa and B. subcequa '' are 

 merely forms " of B. aurita, and, as Ralfs says, he " is probably 

 right." 



11. Biddulphia Roperiana Orev. 



Biddulp/iia liojh'riitna Grev., T. M. S. (1859), 163, PI. 8, fi?. 11-13; 



Schmidt, PI. 120, fig. 20-24. 

 Odontelln Roperiana (Grev.) De Toni. Syl. Alg., 86S. 

 l^riceratrium ( Odoatella discigera var.?) Californicum Griin.? V. H. 



Syn., PI. 108, fig. 11 (?). 



Valve broadly elliptical-lanceolate or triangular (?). Surface 

 convex, with a central depression, punctate, the puncta averaging 

 7 in .01 mm., radiating from the centre. Zonal view quad- 




1900,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 701 



rangiilar, the connective zone having puncta in vertical parallel 

 rows. L. of V. .165 mm. 



Distinguished by its prominent central depression from B. 

 aurita, which it very n^^arly approaches. 



Common on the Pacific coast. Fossil in the California 

 deposits. 



12. Biddulphia Argus Boyer. i 



Biddulphia Argus Bojer, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil. (1898), 469, PI. 

 24, fig. 6. Schmidt's Atlas, PI. 120, fig. 27, apparently represents an 

 intermediate form. 



Valve broadly elliptical, convex, with an elliptical depression at 

 centre, which is encircled by from 10 to 12 short spines. Processes 

 rather short and obtuse. Surface with reticulations hexagonal, 

 about 3 in .01 mm. at the border and 5 in .01 mm. at the centre, 

 from which they radiate in curved lines. L. of v. .165 mm. 



Port Antonio, Jamaica. 



Distinguished chiefly by the central spines and by the size of the 

 reticulations. It approaches B. Roperkma Grev. and B. Peru- 

 viana Grun. 



13. Biddulphia Edwardsii Febiger. 



Biddulphia Edwardsii Febiger (MSS.). 



Odontella Edwardsii (Feb.) Grun., Diat. Fr. Jos. Laud, 5, PI. 2, fig. 

 20; V. H. Syn. PI. 100, figs. 9, 10. 



Valve suborbicular or orbicular-lanceolate. Surface with 

 puncta from 5 to 7 in .01 mm., radiating from centre and with 

 numerous evenly distributed short spurs, by which adjacent frus- 

 tules are united. One or two small spines usually occur near each 

 side. Processes short, truncate or obtuse. The prickly surface, 

 under low powers, somewhat resembles that of B. tiwgida. Con- 

 nective zone with puncta in parallel lines. 



L of V. .033 mm. to ,105 mm. 



Pacific coast. Occasional on the Atlantic coast. 



Prof. H. L. Smith (^1. J. 3L, 4, p. 101) considers this form 

 to be "a hirsute variety of B. Roijeriana Grev." It is probably 

 intermediate between B. Roperiana and B. primordialis Brun. In 

 large specimens a hyaline ring is quite distinct in the coimective 

 zone, as mentioned by Brun in his description of the latter species 

 (Esp. Nouv., 13). See also under B. polyacanthos Brun, /. c. , 

 p. 12. 




702 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



14. Biddulphia Cookiana K. and S. 



Biddulphia Cookiana K. and S., Torr. Bnll. (1889), 73, PI. 89, fi?. 4. 



Odontella Cookiana (K. and S. ) De Toni. 



Biddulphia tumida (E.) Roper? T. M. S. (1859), 15, PI. 2, figs. 18, 



Roper gives as the synonymy of his species Deaticella tumida f 

 E. and Odontella tumida Kiitz,, and states that the form agrees 

 with Ehrenberg's description of a valve from "Bermuda" 

 [Nottingham]. Roper's figures and description appear to show 

 the identity of his form with B. Cookiana K. and S., an examina- 

 tion of the " Old Well" deposit of Richmond showing a large 

 number of specimens, the smaller of which illustrate the globose 

 character of the valves. 



Valve suborbicular or elliptical-lanceolate, convex, witli pro- 

 cesses tumid at the base and small and obtuse at the apex. Sur- 

 face with radiating, unequal, hexagonal reticulations, about 4 in 

 . 01 mm. One or two stout spines are placed on each side near the 

 margin. Connective zone with parallel rows of puncta about 7 in 

 .01 mm. 



L. of V. .105 mm. 



Fossil in the Miocene deposits of the Atlantic coast. 



15. Biddulphia interrupta Boyer. 



Biddulphia interrnpta Boj'er, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. (1898), 

 4(38, PI. 24, lig. 2. 



Valve elliptical, with small, rounded pi'ocesses. Surface con- 

 vex, finely punctate, the puncta about 10 in .01 mm., radiating 

 in scattered lines from the centre, at which are three minute spines. 

 About one-third of the distance from centre to processes, at each 

 end, a hyahne hand, produced by the interruption of puncta, 

 crosses the valve transvei'selv extending nearly to the sides. L of 

 V. .112 ram. 



Campeachy Bay. Rare. 



16. Biddulphia granulata Roper. 



Biddulphia granulata Roper, T. M. S. (1859). 13, PI. 1. figs. 10, 11, 

 PL 2, fig. 12. 



This form has been identified with Dentieella turgida Ehr. ^ 

 Odontella turj^ida Kiitz. =: Hiddidphia turgida (Ehr.) Ralfs 

 (not Wm. Sm.), and it appears to be equivalent, in outline at 

 least, to Dentieella dubia Bail. " It is impossible," as Roper re- 

 marks, " to speak with certainty." 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 703 



Valve elliptical-lanceolate. Surface convex with diagonal rows 

 of fine puncta about 12 in .01 mm., and with sparsely scattered 

 small spurs. Processes slightly inflated at the base, obtuse at the 

 ends, which are curved outward toward alternate sides. Near 

 each process and on opposite sides of the longitudinal axis is 

 placed a long, stout spine, bent or curved inward near the middle. 

 Connective zone with rows of diagonal puncta slightly smaller 

 than those on the valve. L. of v. .108 mm. 



Vera Cruz. Fossil in the Pleistocene clay from the Norfolk 

 artesian well. Xot common. 



17. Biddulphia seticulosa Grun. 



BiddulpMa seticulosa Grun., V. H. Syn., V\. 101, figs. 7, 8. 

 Denticella seticulosa (Grun.) De Toni. 



Valve elliptical, acumjnate at the ends, from which arise horn- 

 like, obtuse processes. Surface of valve divided longitudinally by 

 an indefiuite, irregular line which does not reach the extremities 

 and from which proceed the rows of puncta parallel at the middle, 

 but radiating toward the ends. Minute spurs are scattered over 

 the surface in addition to longer spines, indefinite in number, but 

 usually three to six on each side near the margin. Puncta, about 

 6 in .01 mm., are arranged in vertical rows on connective zone 

 and also extend almost to the end of processes. 



L. of V. .198 mm. Width of v. .082 mm. L. of frustule 

 .072 mm. 



Fossil in the Petersburg, Va. , deposit. 



Van Heurck considers this as probably a form of Trieeratiwn 

 tridaetylum Brightw. (=z Biddulphia spinosa (Bail.)), and as 

 probably near B. reticulata var. 6. Koper. See remarks under 

 B. spinosa. 



18. Biddulphia spinosa (Bail.). 



Triceratium spinosum Bail., Sil. Jour. (1844), 139, PI. 3, fig. 12; 



Schmidt, PI. 87, figs. 2, 3, 4, 5. 

 Triceratium tridaetylum Brighlw. 

 Triceratium armatum Eoper. 

 Triceratium setigerum Bail. 

 Triceratium. serratum Wallich. 

 Not Biddulphia spinosa Grev. = Denticella spinosa (Grev.) Grun. 



Schmidt {^Atlas, PI. 87) considers this form equivalent to Tri- 

 ceratium Pileus Ehr. (Mikrogeolorjie, PI. 19, fig. 18), but Ehren- 

 berg's figure certainly does not represent this form. Grunow states 

 that Triceratium spinosum is a triangular form of Biddulphia 




704 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



granulata Roper. Specimens in ray collection from Vera Cruz 

 and the Norfolk artesian well of Biddulphia granulata have a 

 finer reticulation than Biddulphia spinosa, but the two forms are 

 quite similar. Prof. Smith attributes Bailey's Triceratium seti- 

 gerum to Triceratium comptum Ehr. , but Bailey's figure appears to 

 represent a form nearer spinosum. 



Valve triangular or quadrangular, with straight or concave 

 sides. Angles produced into horn-like, obtuse processes. Surface 

 convex, reticulated, the cells hexagonal, 3 to 5 in .01 mm. at 

 centre, and slightly smaller toward the angles. At intervals of 

 three or four cells small spurs usually occur giving a prickly 

 appearance to the valve. Two to six or rarely more stout spines, 

 in length about oue-third to one-half the width of valve, and 

 often forked at the ends in perfect specimens, are placed at 

 unequal distances from the angles, two on each side, if of the 

 usual number. In fossil forms most if not all of the spines are 

 frequently broken off. In zonal view, the valve, as Bailey re- 

 marks, is constricted beneath the processes. The reticulations of 

 the connective zone are similar to those of valve. L. of side 

 .013-156 mm. L. of frustule occasionally reaching .201 mm. 



The dove- tailing of the lateral margins of the connecting zone 

 at the angles, as described by Wallich in reference to Triceratium 

 serratum, is well exhibited also in triangular forms in my collec- 

 tion from Yucatan. It is, however, merely the " postage stamp" 

 fracture of the corners of the valve and is not always as regular 

 as shown by Wallich. 



West coast of Florida; Campeachy Bay; Yucatan. 



Fossil in the Miocene deposits of the Atlantic coast and the St. 

 Augustine artcsi.ai well. 



19. Biddulphia Rhombus (Ehr.) Wm. Sm. 



Biddulphia lihombns (Ehr.) Wm. Sm., Brit. Diat., ~% 49. PI. 45, fig. 



320, ri. 61, fig. 320; Schmidt, PI. 120, figs. 11-13. 

 Zygoceros Ehoinbtis Ehr. 

 DenticeUa Hhombiis Ehr. 

 Triceratium Biddulphia Heib. 

 Triceratium striolatum Khr. 

 Triceratium membra/iaccum Brightw. 



Valve orbicular-rhomboidal with produced ends, or triangular 

 with convex sides. Surface convex, with fine hexagonal reticu- 

 lations from 7 to 9 in .01 mm., which are irregular on an ellipti- 

 cal or triangular central part, but which radiate thence to the mar- 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 705 



gins and continue nearly to the ends of processes. Scattered over 

 the surface are minute spurs. Processes small, short and ohtuse. 

 Xear the convex margins strong, short spines occur, usually three 

 on each side near the middle and two additional ones next each 

 process. L, of v. .165 mm. W. of v. .112 mm. 



The triangular form (var. trigona Cleve) diflfers apparently only 

 in outline. The reticulations are not always radiate. In a speci- 

 men from an artesian well at Harvey Cedars, X. J., they occur in 

 short, decussate, intermediate rows. 



Common along the Atlantic coast. Fossil in the Miocene and 

 later deposits of the Eastern States. 



20. Biddulphia suborbicularis Grun. 



Biddulphia suborbicularis Grun., Y. H. Syn., PI. 100, figs. 15, 16. 

 Biddulphia angulata A. S., Schmidt, PL 141, figs. 7,. 8. 

 Denticella? suborbicularis (Gran.) De Toni. 

 Odonttlla angulata (A. S.) De Toui. 



Valve suborbicular, frequently with several irregular, angular 

 projections. Processes frequently unequal, inflated at the base and 

 truncate. Surface elevated half-way between the processes and 

 centre, at which a depression occurs, "with reticulations from 5 to 

 8 in .01 mm., increasing in size towai'd the circumference and 

 radiating in slightly undulating lines. Two, rarely three or four, 

 stout spines are placed obliquely opposite half-way between centre 

 and circumference. L. of v. .089 mm. 



Fossil in the Nottingham deposit. 



21. Biddulphia Smithii (Ralfs.) V. H. 



Biddulphia Smithii (Ralfs.) Y. H. Syn., 207. 



Eupodiscus radiatus \Vm. Sm. = Biddulphia radiatus = Eupodiscus 



velatus Grev. 

 Cerataulus Smithii Kalfs., Schmidt, PI. 11(3, tigs. 5, 6. 

 Cerataulus {Odonttlla) Smithii Ea\k.. Y. H. Syu., PI. 105, figs. 1, 2 

 Zygoceros hemitropus L. W. Bail. 

 Biddulphia hernitropa L. W. Bail. 

 Not Auliscus radiatus (Ehr. ) Jan. and Rab. 



Valve orbicular, convex. Surface with reticulations 5 in. .01 

 mm., radiating from the centre and smaller near the processes 

 which are tapering and truncate. A short spine is usually found 

 on each side near the circumference about half-way between the 

 processes. Connective zone narrow, with vertical rows of puncta, 

 12 in .01 mm. Diam. of v. .059 mm. 



Charleston, S. C, and southward. Common at Vera Cruz. 

 Honduras and Campeachy Bay. 




706 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



22. Biddulphia Favus (Ehr.) V. H. 



BiddulpMa Favus (Ehr.) V. H. Sya., 208, PI. 107, figs. 1, 2, 3, 4. 



Triceratium Favus Ehr.. Schmidt, PI, 82, figs. 1, 2, 3^ 4. 



Triceratium comptum Ehr. 



Triceratium muricatum Brightw. 



Triceratium megastomum Brightw. 



Triceratium sritulum Brightw. 



Triceratium fimbriatum Wal lich . 



Triceratium, orientale Bail, and Harv. 



Triceratium cuspidatum Janisch. 



Ampliitetras cuspidata L. W. Bail. 



Valve three or four-angled, with straight or slightly concave or 

 convex sides. Angles obtuse, occasionally somewhat constricted, each 

 with an obtuse, horn-like process. Surface slightly convex, divided 

 into large hexagonal cells. Inner or lower surface of valve finely 

 punctate, the puncta radiating in undulating rows from the centre 

 and extending to processes, about 18 in .01 mm. in the common 

 forms. Zonal view quadrangluar, the connective zone marked 

 with puncta in quincunxes. Frustules attached by alternate 

 angles zigzag in a chain, usually found free. L. of s. averages in 

 the common forms . 15 mm. 



Common in th'3 triangular form along the Atlantic coast, more 

 especially southward, where it is associated with the smaller tri- 

 angular and quadrangular forms known as Triceratium seifulum. 

 Rare on the Pacific coast in the quadrate form. Fossil in the 

 Eastern States in dejiosits later thau the Miocene. 



23. Biddulphia grandis (Br.). 



Triceratiuiii (jrainlf Br., M. J. (18,53), 250, PI. 4, lig. f^; var. pentagona 

 Grun., Schmidt, PI. 8G; var. septa lujulatu Kittou, Schmidt, PI. 85, 

 figs. 1, 2, PI. 86, figs. 11, 12, 13. 



Triceratiam poitdcrosum Edwards, Len.*, -, 105. 



Tricerntium Favus septa/iyiilatmn Kition. 



Triceratium Strabo, Schmidt, PI. 86, figs. 6, 7. 



Valve as in B. Favus but larger, varying from triangular to 

 septangular, the sides occasionally reaching .281 mm. in length, 

 while the puncta of the lower surface of the valve are frequently 

 about 7 in .01 mm. 



Colon. Fossil in the Miocene deposits of California. 



24. BiddulpMa acuta (Klir.). 



Triceratium acutum Ehr., V. H. Syu., PI. 108, fig. 1. 

 The form known as Triceratium acutum (Ehr.) is sometimes 

 confounded with acute forms of Triceratium punctatum Br. 



Valve triangular, sides slightly convex and processes at the 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 707 



angles somewhat acute. Surface flat, reticulated, cells hexagonal, 

 2 in .01 mm. at the centre, 3 in .01 mm. at the border, not 

 radiate. L. of s. .04 mm. to .122 mm. 



Fossil in the Miocene deposits of the Eastern States. 



It is possible that B. grandis and B. acuta may be considered as 

 varieties of B. Farus. It is to be noted that B. Favus is recent, 

 not occurring in the Miocene deposits, while B. grandis occurs 

 fossil in California IMiocene and recent in the south Atlantic. 



25. Biddulphia Eobertsiana (Grev.). 



Triceratium Rohertsianum Grev., M. M. J. (1863), 231, PI. 9, fig. 



9 (?); ib. (1886), PI. 2, fig. 22; Schmidt, PI. 83, figs. 2, 3, 4, 5, 



6,7. 

 Triceratium Rohertsiantim Grev. var. macracantha Grun., Schmidt. 



PI. 82, figs. 14, 15. 



Valve triangular or quadrangular, with convex sides. Surface 

 convex with hexagonal reticulations averaging .008 mm. in diame- 

 ter, scarcely longer toward the sides. Angles very slightly pro- 

 duced, with elevated, obtuse processes. Inner plate of valve finely 

 but distinctly punctate as in B. Farm. One or more short, stout 

 spines are frequently found on each side near the border. W. of 

 V. .148 mm. 



Gulf of Mexico (Griiudler in Schmidt) ; Pacific soundings, 20° 

 10' N., 158° 14' W., 2507 fathoms. Rare. 



26. Biddalphia Campeachiana (Grun.). 



Triceratium C'ampeachianum Grun., M. ^[. J. (1874), 319; Schmidt, 



PI. 78, figs. 18, 19, 20. 

 Amphipentas Campeachiana (Grun.) De Toni. 



Valve pentagonal with sides tumid at the middle, j^roducing a 

 decagonal outline. Processes at the angles conical, obtuse. 

 Surface almost flat, reticulated, the cells hexagonal, nearly equal, 

 2 in .01 mm. The inner plate of valve is punctate as m B, 

 Favus. W. of V. .072 ram. to .125 mm. 



Campeachy Bay. 



27. Biddulphia dubia (Br.) Cleve. 



Biddulphia dubia (Br.) Cleve. "Vega," 508. 



Triceratium dtibium Br., T. M. S. (1859), 180, PI. 9, fig. 12; Schmidt, 



PI. 78, figs. 26-30. 

 Triceratium bullosum Witt. 

 Triceratium {or Hiddulphia) bicorne Cleve, Diat. West Ind., 17, PI. 



5, fig. 30; Schmidt, PI. 78, figs. 24, 25. 

 Amphitetras bicornis (Cleve) De Toni. 



Valve rhombic-lanceolate, the ends j^roduced into obtuse pro- 




708 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



cesses, while the sides are turgid and extended into rounded 

 projections. Abnormal forms are frequent. Surface reticulate, 

 the unequal, usually hexagonal cells averaging .005 mm. in 

 diameter. Within the cells indistinct granulations are seen. L. 

 of V. .075 mm. 



Atlantic coast, southward, not common; California (Cleve). 



28. BiddulpMa reticulata Roper. 



Biddulphia reticulata Roper, T. M. S. (1859), 14, PL 2, figs. 13, 14, 



15; Schmidt, PI. 78. figs. 21-23, PI. 121, figs. 11-15. 

 Odontella? reticulata (Koper) De Toni. 



Valve elliptical-lanceolate or rhombic with turgid sides. Pro- 

 cesses conical and obtuse. Surface coai'sely reticulate, the reticu- 

 lations 1 to 1^ in ,01 mm., the inner layer with puncta from 6 to 

 9 in .01 mm., resembling those of B. Favus. Connective zone 

 with parallel rows of puncta about 5 in .01 mm. L. of v. 

 .122 mm. 



Honduras; Pacific coast. 



29. Biddulphia Peruviana Grun. 



Biddulphia {tumida Eoper, var.?) Peruviana Gran., V. H. Svu., PI. 



101, figs. 2, 3. 

 Biddulphia tumida var.? Peruviana (Grun.) De Toni. (Appears to 



ditTer from B. tumida (Ehr.?) Koper in the greater promiuence of the 



hyaline band.) 



Valve orbicular-rhomboidal or elliptical-lanceolate, convex, with 

 depressions at the centre and toward the processes, slightly con- 

 stricted above the connective zone and surrounded by a narrow, 

 apparently hyaline, band. Processes swelling near the ba^e aud 

 small and obtuse at the apex. Surface with unequal, hexagonal 

 reticulations, from 2 to 4 in .01 mm., extending to the apices of 

 the processes on which they are smaller. The inner plate or floor 

 of cell wall is distinctly punctate. Two or three strong spines 

 are usually found on each side near the margin. Connective zone 

 with diagonal reticulations about 7 in .01 mm. L. of v. 

 138 mm. 



Peruvian guano (Grun.); Callao, Peru. Possibly to bo met 

 with northward. 



30. Biddulphia Keeleyi Royor. 



Biddulphia Keeleyi Bover, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila. (^1898), 4t)9, 

 PI. 24, fig. 4. 



Valve broadly rhombic-elliptical, rounded at the ends. Surface 




1900.] NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 709 



slightly convex, without depression, with unequal, hexagonal 

 reticulations, about 2 in .01 mm.; puncta within the reticulations 

 about 8 in .01 mm. Three stout spines are placed on each side 

 near the margin. Processes inflated at the base, small at the apex 

 and placed, not at the ends of the valve, but obliquely opposite,' 

 near the ends. L. of v. , 148 mm. 



U. S. S. ' •■ Tuscarora, " soundings, Lat. 36° 12' xS., Long. 

 123° 11' W., 1605 fathoms. Coast of California (F. J. 

 Keeley); Monterey Bay (J. A. Shulze). Rare. 



31. BiddulpMa consimilis (Gnm.). 



Trkeratium consimile Gnin., V. H. Syn., PI. 103, fig. 2; Schmidt, PI. 

 84, figs. 13, 14. 



Valve triangular, with sides slightly convex. Angles rounded, 

 filled with the prominent cylindrical, short and rounded processes. 

 Surface nearly flat, with reticulations svhich average .008 mm. in 

 •diam., varying from triangular to hexagonal, Avith unequal sides. 



The inner plate of the valve is rather coarsely punctate, the 

 puncta being about 5 in .01 mm. 



L. of s. .120 mm. to .198 mm. 



Campeachy Bay. Fossil in Santa Monica dejDosit. 



32. Biddulphia convexiuscula (Griin.). 



Triceratiwn convexiusculum Gran., Schmidt, PI. 151, figs. 5, 6. 



Valve triangular, sides convex. Angles rounded, with short, 

 truncate processes. Surface convex, with puncta about 7 in .01 

 mm., radiating from the centre. On one or both sides of each 

 angle is a short spine. On the connective zone the puncta are in 

 diagonal rows. L. of s. averages .052 mm. 



The general appearance is that of a three-sided form of BidcUd- 

 phia lievis, from which it diffei's in the puncta of the connective 

 zone which are usually larger in the former. 



Campeachy Bay; Honduras; stomachs of fish from coast of 

 South Carolina ; Tampa Bay, Fla. 



33. BiddulpMa orbiculata (Shadb.). 



Triceratium orbiculatum Shadb., T. M. S. (1854), 14, PI. 1, fig. 6. 

 Triceratium {orbiculatum Shadb. var. ) elongatum Gran. 

 Triceratium Shadboltianum Grev., Schmidt, PI. 80, fig. 18-20. 

 Triceratium gibbosum Bail and Har., Schmidt, PI. 80, fig. 13. 

 Triceratium gibbosmn var. elongatum Grun., Schmidt, PL 80, fig. 21. 

 Lnmpriscus Kittoni A. S., Schmidt, PI. 80, fig. 11. 

 BiddulpMa crenulata W. C. Walker. 



Valve triangular, with convex sides, or orbicular. Outline 



46 




710 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



entire or crenulate. Processes three or more, large, considerably 

 elevated and truncate. Surface slightly convex, with puncta radi- 

 ating from the centre, about 11 in .01 mm., becoming much finer 

 at the apex of the processes. A short strong spine is frequently 

 found quite near one or more of the processes. Connective zone 

 occasionally much elongated and annulate, with puncta in longitu- 

 dinal rows. Diam. averages .092 mm. 



Honduras; Colon. 



Both Greville and Ralfs separate Triceratium orhiculatian Shadb. 

 from the form described under that name by Brightwell and named 

 by Greville T. Shadboltianum on account of the absence of spines 

 in the former. In material from Honduras many variations occur 

 in forms which, I believe, belong to one species. In some valves 

 no spines are seen, in others one or more may be noticed, and 

 occasionally two spines are found near one process. Some valves 

 are quite orbicular and occasionally somewhat elliptical, while 

 others, chiefly the smaller, ai-e more nearly triangular. It is in 

 the smaller, triangular valves that the great extension of the con- 

 nective zone is seen, as in the form named T. gibbosiun var. elon- 

 gatiim Grun. Owing to the incomplete description by Bailey and 

 Harvey, who state that forms from Tahiti have " a surface as in 

 T. Wilkesii," and to the uncertain figure, it is difficult to reach 

 an absolute conclusion as regards the identity of their form with 

 the present species. The description above jriven is frou) valves 

 found at Honduras, where occur also forms with three or four 

 processes and with crenulate margins, as in Lampri^cus Kittoni, 

 but otherwise similar to the triangular forms. 



34. Biddulphia verrucosa Boyer. 



Biddulphia verrucosa Boyer, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. (1898), 468, 

 ri. 24, lig. 5. 



Valve suborbicular, convex. Processes very large, cylindrical, 

 truncate. Surface coai'sely reticulate, the reticulations unequal, 

 irregular, about 2 in .01 mm. Within the reticulations are 

 coarse puncta about 3 in .01 mm. 



L. of v. .138 mm. 



Fossil at Redondo Beach. Very rare. 



This form, which approaches the Cerataultis group, is distin- 

 guished by the encrusted or warty appearance of the surface. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 711 



35. Biddulphia turgida (Elir.) Wm. Sm. 



Bkldulphia turgida (Ehr.) Wm, Sm., Brit. Diat., 2, 50, PI. 62, fig. 



384. 

 Ceratnulus turgidus Ehr. Schmidt, PI. 116, figs. 1-3, PI. 115, figs. 



12-14. 

 Odontella turgida Wm. Sm.(?), De Toni. 



Valve elliptical, convex. Surface Avith undulating rows of fine 

 puucta about 9 in .01 mm., and with numerous minute spurs at 

 irregular intervals. Processes veiy large, cylindrical, truncate, 

 placed obliquely opposite near the ends, and, owing to the torsion 

 of the frustule, directed sideways. Between the processes two 

 stout spines, frequently forked at the ends in perfect specimens, 

 are placed, one on each side, obliquely opposite, near the border. 

 Around the margin a row of very short spines frequently occurs. 

 L. of V. .132 ram. 



In zonal view^ the frustule appears subglobose and twisted on its 

 longitudinal axis in such a way that the edges of the valves appear 

 undulating and the connective zone "sigmoid." Puncta on the 

 connective zone in diagonal rows about 11 in .01 mm. In var. 

 midtispina Grun. the two large spines are usually replaced by from 

 two to four shorter ones on each side, and numerous short, stout 

 spines are found on the circumference, but variations occur. 

 (Biddulphia turgida (Ehr.) Ralfs, Denticella turgida Ehr. and 

 Odontella turgida Kiitz. are not equivalent. They are, possibly, 

 forms of Biddulphia granulata Roper.) 



Atlantic and Pacific coasts. Fossil in the deposits of California, 

 Atlantic City and Bridgeton, N. J. 



In the Californian deposits numerous variations occur. The 

 form figured in Schmidt's Atlas, PI. 115, fig. 15, under the name 

 of Cerataulus Johnsonianus var. appears to me to approach nearer 

 to turgida than to Greville's form. Both it and var. multispina 

 Grun. are not uncommon in the Redondo Beach deposit. 



36. Biddulphia Californica (A. S.). 



Cerataulus Californica A. S., Schmidt, PI. 115, figs. 2, 3, 4. 



Valve broadly ovate-eUiptical or suborbicular, with very short, 

 truncate, hyaline processes. Surface somewhat flat, studded with 

 minute spurs, finely reticulated, the reticulations hexagonal, about 

 8 in .01 mm. Border of valve with a row of small spurs. Two 

 very short spines are usually found on each side near the border. 



L. of V. .198 mm. 




712 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Numerous forms are found in the Redondo Beach deposit, which 

 merely differ in outline and in the number and prominence of the 

 spines which are sometimes absent. 



Fossil on the Pacific coast. 



37. Biddulphia ovalis (A. S.). 



Cerataulus ovalis A. S., Schmidt, PI. 115, figs. 5, 6, 7. 



Valve broadly elliptical with short, truncate processes. Surface 

 flat, with fine, hexagonal reticulations about 8 in .01 mm., with- 

 out spines or sj^urs. L. of v, .039 mm. 



Fossil at Redondo Beach, Cal., and Weymouth, X. J. 



38. Biddulphia laevis Ehr. 



Biddulphia lavis Ehr., Berl. Akad. (1843), 12-3. 



Cerataulus Imvis (Ehr.) Kalfs, Prif., 847. 



Cerataulus Icevis (Ehr.) Schmidt, PI. lltJ, figs. 13, 14, 15. 



Denticella Imvis Ehr. 



Cerataulus Icevis thermalis Grun., Schmidt, PI. 116, figs. 8-11. 



Islhmia polymorphaMoni., Kiitz. Bacill., 188. 



Odontella polyiiiorpJia Kiitz. 



Cerataulus thermalis (Menengh.) Ralfs. 



Pleurosira thermalis Meuengh. 



Melosira thermalis Meuengh. 



fGallionella ? Bail., Sil. Jour. (1842). 104, PI. 2, fig. 8. 



{B. snbcequa K.? and B. obtusa (K. ) Grun., of some authors, have 

 been confounded with B. l(evis Ehr.) 



Valve suborbicular or occasionally subtriangular, convex, with 

 short, truncate processes. Surface with fine puncta, averaging 

 13 in .01 mm., which radiate in more or less curved lines from 

 the centre. Two small spines are placed obliquely opposite about 

 half the radius from the centi-e. Entire surface apparently cov- 

 ered with very minute spur-like elcvatious which are usually in%'is- 

 ible under ordinary illumination. The puncta on the couuective 

 zone are slightly smaller than those on the valve. L. of v. 

 .066 ram. 



Generally distributed along the Atlantic and Pacific coasts. 

 Abundant at Port Townsend, Wash. Fossil iu salt marsh deposits 

 of Kansas, Utah, Nebraska and Michigan. Also occui*s iu fresh- 

 water lakes. 



39. Biddulphia Thumii (A. S.). 



Cerataulus Thumii A. S., Schmidt, PI. IIT), fig. 1. 



Cerataulus Iluugaricus Pant.? Foss. Bacill. Ung., C, PI. 26, fig. 375? 



Valve suborbicular, with largo, short, truncate processes. Sur- 

 face with fine puncta confused and scattered at the centre, from 

 which they radiate in undulating linos toward the processes and 




1900.] NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 713 



the circumference where they average 11 in .01 mm. In large 

 specimens the surface slightly undulates between the processes. 

 L. of V. .204 mm. 



Fossil at Redondo Beach, Cal. Rare. 



The Californian form is not distinct, I think, from the Hunga- 

 rian, except that in the latter, in the few specimens I have seen, 

 the puncta are larger and more confused. 



40. BiddulpMa Circinus (Bail.) V. H. 



Biddulphia Circinus (Bail.) V. H., Diat., fig. 200. 

 Zpgocerod Circinus BaiL, N. Sp., PI., figs. 19, 20 ; V. H. Syu , PI. 

 105, fig. 13. 



' ' Valve elliptical, rising into the form of a truncated cone, from 

 the top of which, at each end, extends a long, inwardly bent 

 spine. A few much smaller, intermediate spines are scattered 

 over the surface which is slightly rugose and punctate, the puncta 

 more or less radiate, averaging 7 in .01 mm. Processes wanting. 

 Connective zone well developed, with fine puncta, from 9 to 

 13 in .01 mm., in longitudinal rows. L. of v. .083 mm. 

 Fossil at Richmond (Bail.) ; Santa Monica (Grun. ). Rare. 



41. BiddulpMa quadricornis (Grun.). 



Zygoceros quadricornis Griin., V. H. Syn., PI. 105, figs. 5-7. 

 ' '^ Valve orbicular or suborbicular, having four spines which I'ise 

 from the four corners of the summit of the truncated cone. 

 Otherwise apparently as in B. Circinus, of which it is, probably, 

 a variety. 



Fossil at Nottingham (Grun.). 



42. BiddulpMa Balaena (Ehr.) Br. 



BiddulpMa Baloena (Ehr.) Br., M. M. J. (1859), 181, PL 9, fig. 15; 



Schmidt, PL 131, figs. 5, 6. 

 Zygoceros Balcena Ehr., Mik., PL 35, A, 33, fig. 17. 

 Zygoceros radiatus Bail. 

 Triceratium formosum Br., and Triceratium formosum pentagonalis 



A. S., Schmidt, PL 79, figs. 2, 3, 4. 



Valve elliptical or angular, in zonal view quadrangular. Sur- 

 face flat or somewhat concave, slightly elevated at the ends or 

 angles, finely reticulate, the hexagonal reticulations about 5 to 

 8 in .01 mm., radiating from the centre in the smaller valves, but 

 in the larger, elliptical forms, transverse in the middle. Connec- 

 tive zone with parallel rows of puncta, smaller than those on the 

 valve, about 5 in .01 mm. L. of v. in elliptical form .231 mm. 




714 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^900. 



^ear Biddnlphia ardica (Br.), but with much finer reticulations- 

 Cleve states (Arct. Dial., 15) that these forms are not specifi- 

 cally distinct, as he has seen a transitional form between Zygoceros 

 Bakena E. and Tricerathnn arctlcum Br. I have noticed a tri- 

 angular form in material from McCormack Bay, Greenland. The 

 elliptical form of the same locality shows markings closely resem- 

 bling those of B. ardica, each reticulation containing 3 or 4 

 puncta on the upper surface of valve. 



Greenland (Cleve); Nova Scotia; McCormack Bay, Greenland; 

 fossil at San Luis Obispo, Cal. (J. D. Cox); Nottingham (Br.). 



43. Biddulphia arctica (Br.). 



Triceratiam arctionn Br., jr. M. J. (18.53), 2o0. PI. 4, figs. 10, 11 ; 



Schmidt, PI. 79, figs. 5-18. J'l. 81, figs. 3, 4, PI. 94, figs. 1, 2, 3. 

 Tricerathim Wilkesii var. Bail, and Harv. 

 Amphiietras Wilkesii Bail, and Harv. 

 2'rigouium arcticum Cleve. 



Valve elliptical (?) or angular. Sides straight, convex or con- 

 cave, with rounded angles which are scarcely elevated. Surface of 

 valve rather coarsely reticulate or cellular, the cells irregularly 

 pentagonal or hexagonal, radiating from centre and usually 

 sliglitly larger near the .«emi-radius, distinctly punctate near the 

 perimeter. Angles finely punctate, the rows of puncta slightly 

 converging toward the apex where they are smaller. Connective 

 zone with coarse puncta in longitudinal rows. Zonal view usually 

 quadrangular but occasionally showing the surface much elevated. 

 A species quite variable in size and outline. 



By careful examination a fine hexagonal punctation may be seen 

 around the margin of the cells and upon (he upper surface of the 

 valve, resembling the arrangement in certain forms of Coscinodis- 

 cus (see text of PI. 165 of Schmidt's Atlas). 



Abundant on the Pacific coast; Cam|)eachy Bay ( Gruu. ) ; fossil 

 in California and very rarely at Asbury Park, N. J. 



The following are considered varieties: 



B. ardica Campeachiana (Grun. ) = Triceratiam arcticum forma 

 Campeachiana Grun., triangular, with straight sides. 



B. arctica Californica (Grun.) = Triceratiam ardicam var. 

 Galifornica Grun., with produced angles, concave sides and hya- 

 line centre. Occui*s three- aud four-sided. 



B. arctica Kergnelemis (Grun.) = Triceratiam ardica var. 




1900. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 715 



Kerguelemis Gran., differing from Calif ornica in not having the 

 angles produced. 



B. ardiea Moniereyi (Br. )= Tricerathnn Montereyi Br., differs 

 from the type merely in the elevation of the surface which is quite 

 pronounced in certain specimens, but differs in valves of the same 

 frustule. In specimens in my collection frustules show one valve 

 with no elevation and the other with a very marked central pro- 

 tuberance. In another frusLule both valves are much elevated at 

 the centre as in those described by Grove and Stout {Dial. Oamaru, 

 PI. 11, fig. 25). 



£. aretica quadrangular is (Grev. ) = Triceratium quadrangulare 

 ■Orev., which apparently differs only in a slight constriction of the 

 angles from other quadrate forms. 



B. aretica pentagona =z Triceratium arcticum, forma j)enfagona, 

 from Redondo Beach. 



B. aretica sexangulata= Triceratium arcticum sexangulatum, a 

 very beautiful six-sided form occurring in a sounding from the 

 Pacific, west of California (not T. sexangulatum Grev.) (Cnll. J. 

 A. Shulze). 



According to Van Heurck {Diat., p. 61), the form known as 

 Triceratium formosum Br. is equivalent to Biddulphia Bakena. 

 The pentagonal form shows puncta within the reticulations similar 

 to those in the type form of B. aretica. Owing to the numerous 

 variations of Balcena and aretica, it becomes difficult to separate 

 them satisfactorily. 



44. Biddulphia Heilpriniana (K. and S.)- 



Triceratitnn Heilprinianum (K. and. S.) Torr. Bull. (1889), 20S, PI. 

 93, fig. 3. 



Valve triangular, sides straight or but slightly convex or concave. 

 Angles elevated into conical, obtuse processes to a height about 

 equal to one-eighth of the width of valve. Surface, with its 

 central portion having about the same elevation as the angles and 

 flattened at the top, with rounded, unequal puncta, about 4 in 

 -01 mm., and extending to the summit of the processes where they 

 .are slightly smaller. L. of v. .064 to .135 mm. 



Atlantic City artesian well. Rare. 




716 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



45. Biddulphia vesiculosa (Ag.). 



Diatoma vesiculosum Ag., Sys., 7 (1824). 



Jsthmia vesiculosa Ag., Consp. Crit., 55. 



Amphitetras antedilnviana Ehr., Berl. Akad. (1839), Kiitz. Bacill.^ 



135, PI. 19, fig. 3, PI. 29, fig. 86. 

 Amphitetras crux Br. 

 J'riceratium antedilumanum Grun. 

 Biddulphia antediluviana (Ehr.) V. H. Syn., 207, PI. 109, figs. 4, 5, 



PI. 100, figs. 3, 4. 



Valve quadrangular, or rarely pentagonal, with more or less 

 concave sides and rounded angles. Processes very short and trun- 

 cate, frequently unequal. Surface with coarse, rounded, quadrate 

 or hexagonal reticulations, smaller at the centre from which they 

 radiate, and averaging 3 in .01 mm., their walls often consider- 

 ably thickened. The secondary layer is punctate, but the puncta, 

 owing to the thickness of the cell walls, are difficult to see in most 

 specimens. Ends of processes very minutely and iudisiinctly 

 punctate. L. of s. .059 mm. to .115 mm. 



Edgarton Harbor (Bail.); L. I. Sound (Lewis); St. Mary's 

 river, Ga. (Lewis); Savannah (Lewis); Provincetown, Mass.; 

 Port Townsend, Wash. Fossil at Asbury Park, N. J. A pen- 

 tagonal form occurs fossil at Asbury Park, which is not the same 

 as Amphipentas alternans Ehr. 



46. Biddulphia deoipiens Grun. 



Biddulphia decipicns Grun., V. H. Syn., PI. 100, figs. 3, 4. 

 Amphitetras miinita Grev., M. M. J. (1861), 77, PI. 9, fig. 11?. 

 AmpJiitetras (Biddulphia) alternans^ H. L. Smith, Chrisiian. in "The 



Microscope " (1887), 67, fig., p. 113; Schmidt, PI. 98, fig. 25 



(without name). 



The e(iuivalcnce of Amphitetras in'nnda Grev., as doubtfully 

 given by Van Heurck, is too uncertain to give priority to the 

 name, as Greville, in both description and figure, omits any refer- 

 ence to processes, surface or spines. The processes are, however, 

 frequently quite indefinite and the spines arc more often broken oft. 



Valve rhomboidal with the sides turgid and produced, giving,, 

 therefore, a cruciform outline. Surface rising suddenly from 

 near the margin into an ellipsoidal elevation, the major diameter 

 of which is at right angles to the major axis of valve, with hex- 

 agonal reticulations, about 5 in .01 mm., at the centre, from which 

 they radiate toward the i)rocesses and rounded angles (f the sides 

 where they arc about 9 in .01 mm. Processes inftated at the 




1900.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 717 



base, small and obtuse. At the margin of the elevation, placed 

 obliquely on each side, a strong spine projects. 



L. of V. .059 mm. to .072 mm. 



Fossil at Nottingham and Atlantic City. 



47. Biddulphia elegans (Grev.). 



Amphitetras elegans Grev., T. M. S. (1866), 9, PI. 2, fig. 24. 

 Triceratium eleqans (Grev.) Grun., V. H. Syn., PI. 109, fig. 1; 

 Schmidt, PI. 99, figs. 10-13. 



Valve quadrangular, with sides slightly concave. Angles with 

 short, cylindrical processes. Surface depressed at the centre, 

 with rounded cells, averaging 5 in .01 mm., radiating toward the 

 angles where they are smaller and more crowded. The absence of 

 reticulation half-way between the centre and processes frequently 

 produces, under low powers, the appearance of an inscribed square. 



L. of s. .092 mm. 



Campeachy Bay (Schmidt); fossil at Monterey, Santa Monica 

 and Redondo Beach, Cal. 



48. Biddulphia biquadrata (Jan.). 



Triceratium biquadraium Jan., Schmidt, PI. 98, figs. 4,5, 6. 



Valve quadrangular with slightly concave sides. Angles 

 rounded, with short, truncate processes. Surface with coarse 

 reticulations, about 2^ in .01 mm., the walls of which correspond, 

 for the rfost part, with the meshes of a coarser network which is 

 unequally but symmetrically distributed, producing, by its peculiar 

 arrangement, the appearance, under low powers, of an inscribed 

 square. 



L. of s. .112 mm. 



The chief distinction between this form and B. Peniacrinus is 

 in the greater coarseness of the reticulations in the former and the 

 closer correspondence of its anastomosing network and the cell 

 walls. It is, apparently, intermediate between B. vesiculosa and 

 B. Pentacrinus. 



Yucatan; Gulf of California. 



49. Biddulphia Pentacrinus (Ehr.). 



Amphipentas Pentacrinus Ehr., Berl. Akad. (1810), 10 ; Mik., PI. 19 



fig. 59; Kiitz., Bacill., 136, PL 29, fig. 92. 

 Triceratium Pentacrinus (Ehr.) Wall., Schmidt, PI. 98, figs. 7-13, 18. 

 Amphipentas alternans Ehr. 

 Amphitetras arisata Shadb. 

 Amphitetras omnia Shadb. 

 Triceratium quadrinotatum A. S., Schmidt, PI. 152, fig. 31. 



Valve quadrangular or pentagonal, with concave sides. Angles 




718 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



obtuse with short, truncated processes. Surface nearly flat, with 

 hexagonal reticulations, 5 to 7 in .01 mm., radiating from the 

 centre. The walls of the reticulations being more robust in some 

 parts than in others, there is produced an appearance of a coarse 

 network of various design extending over the entire surface. A 

 minute spur-like projeclion is frequently found between each angle 

 and near the circumference in both the quadrangular and pen- 

 tagonal forms. 



L. of s. .092 mm. 



Atlantic and Pacific coasts More abundant in Gulf of Mexico 

 and southward. 



50. Biddulphia Kainii (Schultze). 



2'rlceratium ^a^■/u^■ Schultze, K. and S., Bull. Torr. CI. (1889). 76, PI. 



89, fig. 5, Pi. 92, iig. 3. 

 Triceratium Kainii constrictum Schultze, K. and S.. I. e. 

 Tricei'utium multifrons Brun., Diat. foss. Jap., 63, Pi. 6, fig. 2. 



Valve triangular or quadrangular, with sides varying from 

 straight to deeply convex. Angles more or less cuneate, obtuse, 

 rarely constricted, separated from the other part of valve by 

 strong costie which are equidistant between centre and apices. 

 Surface slightly convex, with puncta about 5 in .01 mm., radi- 

 ating from a hyaline centre, or, occasionally, scattered L of s. 

 -056 to .138 mm. 



Fossil in the Miocene deposits of the Eastern States. A quad- 

 rate form has beeu found by ]Mr. John A. Shulze in material from 

 Mays Landing artesian well, N. J. 



51. Biddulphia Tabellarium (Hr.). 



Trice rat iiaii Tahellariitm Br., M. M. J. (183G), 275, PI. 17. fig. 15; 



Schmidt, PI. 77, fijjs. 1-9. 

 Triceratium Tabellarium diplostictum Grun., Schmidt, PI. 77, figs. 



1, 2. 

 Trie era t iu m Jo h nxo n ii Ral fa., Prit., 854. 

 Triceratium vennlosum Grev. 

 Triceratium brecinerciuvi Grev. 

 Triceratium pallidum Grev. 



Valve triangular, with somewhat acute angles and straight or 

 slightly convex sides having an indented or scalloped appearance 

 caused by the extension inwards, for a short distance, of several 

 iiostx which are usually curved at the extremities. Surface 

 slightly elevated at the centre and at the angles, with a few scat- 

 tered puncta more numerous at the angles. L. of s. .06 mm. to 

 -14 mm. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 719 



In certain specimens indistinct lines radiate from the centre and 

 in conjection with two of the partial costse from each side form a 

 three-lobed figure. In most of the specimens each of the angles 

 is distinctly separated from the centre by an irregular line. 



Campeachy Bay; Honduras. 



52. Biddulphia alternans (Bail.) V. H. 



Biddulphia alternans V. H. Syn., 208, PI. 113, figs. 4-7. 

 Triceratium alternans Bail., M. Obs., 40 ; Sil. Jour. (1845^, PI. 4, fig. 



25 ; ib., M. Ex. S., fig. 55, 56 ; Schmidt, PI. 78, figs. 9-17. 

 Triceratium s-p.? Bail., Sil. Jour. (1845), 386. 

 Triceratium variabile Br. 



Valve triangular or rarely quadrangular, with sides straight or, 

 usually, somewhat unevenly concave. Angles obtuse, slightly 

 elevated, separated fi-om central portion by costate lines. Central 

 part hexagonal in outline, marked by several lines resembling 

 costse which extend indefinitely from the periphery in various 

 directions, usually toward the centre. Surface with puncta of 

 irregular shape, larger at the centre, about 5 in .01 mm., and 

 diminishing toward the apices of the angles on Avhich they are 

 usually arranged in rows about 8 in .01 mm. Zonal view quad- 

 rate, angles not prolonged. Connective zone narrow. L. of s. 

 .05 mm. 



Abnormal variations occur with unequal sides. 



Common along the Atlantic coast, especially in ^estuaries, but 

 not abundant; Puget Souud; fossil in rice fields of Georgia and 

 California (Bail. ), and in the Miocene deposits of the Eastern 

 States and of California; Pleistocene ciay, Harvey Cedars, X. J. 



53. Biddulphia trisulca (Bail.). 



Triceratium trisulcum Biil., (Ms.) in Prit., 854 ; Schmidt, PI. 78, figs. 



5-8, PI. 112, figs. 17. 18. 

 Triceratium talidum Grun., Schmidt. PI. 94, fig. 5. 



Valve triangular with concave sides and rounded angles which 

 are elevated into large, globose processes. Surface with rounded, 

 scattered puncta averaging 1 in .01 mm. Angles with indefinitely 

 angular reticulations about 4 in .01 mm. Connective zone with 

 puncta similar to those on the surface of valve. In one specimen 

 observed, from Redondo Beach, in a continuation of an unusually 

 well -developed connective zone overlapping one valve, the puncta- 

 tion assumed the character of large hexagonal reticulations about 

 2\ in .01 mm. L. of s. averages .15 mm. 




720 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Triceratium tumidum Grev. from Barbadoes, is very near thi3 

 form. 



Campeachy Bay. Fossil at Redondo Beach, Cal. 



54. Biddulphia costulata (Grun.). 



Triceratium tumidum Grev. var. costulata Grun ; Schmidt, PI. 78, fig. 

 1, PI. 88, fig. 17. 



Valve triangular with .straight or slightly concave sides and 

 rounded angles, elevated into large, rounded processes. Surface 

 as in B. trisulca, except that the puncta on the angles in the 

 specimens observed are about in .01 mm. Partial costie, two to 

 four on each side, extend inwards for varying distances from the 

 perimeter. L. of s. 148 mm. 



Fossil at Redondo Beach, Cal. Rare. 



55. Biddulphia condecora (Khr.). 



Triceratium condecorum Ehr., Berl. Akad. (1844), 272; Schmidt, PI. 

 7G, fig. 28 (not 27 j. See remarks under B. Americana. 



Valve triangular, or irregularly quadrilateral, with sides straight 

 or but slightly convex or concave, and obtuse angles. Surface 

 flat or slightly depressed toward the centre, having rounded puncta 

 arranged in rows which radiate in undulating lines from the 

 centre at which and on the margin they are slightly smaller, 

 averaging 4 in .01 mm. L. of s. in type specimens .145 mm., 

 but occasionally much smaller. Distinguished from B. Americana 

 not only by the undulatious of the rows of puncta, but also by 

 their more pearly character. Specimens from Nottingham vary 

 cousiderably in outline, .several having but two angles and others 

 having the form of a trapezium. 



Fossil in the Miocene deposits of the Eastern States. 



56. Eiddulphia (1) subrotundata uV. ?. t. 



Triceratium subrotnndatam A. S., Schmidt, PI. 93, fig. 1. 



Valve orbicular-triangular, with very convex sides and indefinite 

 angles. Surface flat, with subqiiadrate or hexagonal reticula- 

 tions, radiating from the centre, where they are about 5 in .(U 

 mm., and increasing to about 3 in .01 mm., but suddenly dimin- 

 ishing at the circumference. W. of v. .092 mm. Sciircely diHer- 

 iug, except, in outline, from Co-^duodiscus. 



Fossil at Nottingham. Very rare. 




1900.] NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 721 



57. Biddulphia Americana (Ralfs). 



Triceratium Americanum Ralfs, Prit., 855 ; Schmidt, PI. 76, fig. 3 (?), 



27 (see note). 

 Iriceratium obtusum'Ehv., Amer., 137 {?) ; Mik., PI. 18, fig. 48 (?) (not 



49?). 

 Triceratium Amblyoceros Br. 

 Triceratium obscurum Grev. forma minor A. S., SchmicU, PL 76, fig. 5. 



This is a smaller form of B. Americana. I have noticed several 

 intermediate variations which differ only in size and the convexity 

 of the sides. Greville remarks of his species from Naparima that 

 it resembles T. condecorum, except that " the radiating lines of 

 puncta are perfectly straight "^ 



Valve triangular or occasionally irregularly quadrangular, with 

 straight, convex or slightly concave sides and obtuse angles. Sur- 

 face flat, having rounded or subquadrate reticulations, 3 or 4 in 

 .01 mm., which in well -developed specimens radiate from the 

 centre. At the margin the cells are smaller. 



L. of s. averages .115 mm. Quite variable in size and outline. 



Fossil in the Miocene deposits of the Eastern States. 



^ Much confusion has arisen as to the distinction between Triceratium 

 Americanum Ralfs and Triceratium condecorum Br., due partly to Ralfs' 

 description of the former as equivalent to T. Amblyoceros Br., which in 

 turn has been confused with T. Amblyoceros Ehr., and to the mistake made 

 by Schmidt, as suggested by Gr. and St., in numbering figs. 27 and 28 in 

 PI. 76 of the Atlas, fig. 27 being T. Americanum and fig. 28 condecorum. 



As T. condecorum is described as having undulating rows of granules, and 

 as T. Americanum is said to resemble T. arcticum (see Roper), except in 

 the angles, it may be as well to base the distinction between the two forms 

 upon the undulations of the rows of radiating granules and upon the 

 coarseness of the granules. It becomes, however, difficult to separate the 

 smaller forms of the two species. Some specimens from Nottingham vary 

 considerably in outline, some approaching T. subrotundatum A. S., while 

 others are near T. parallelum Grev., as has been noticed by Grove and 

 Sturt in forms from Oamaru. 



Triceratium Americanum Ralfs is, probably, the same as T. Amblyo- 

 ceros of Brightwell, but as Brightwell's form is not T. Amblyoceros of 

 Ehrenberg, which in outline, if not in its centre, is probably Actinoptychus 

 Amblyoceros A. S., Ralfs' name must stand as representing form fig. 27, 

 PI. 76, of the Atlas. De Toui unfortunately (p. 1396) gives Actinoptychus 

 Amblyoceros A. S., Atlas, PI. 1, fig. 25, as equivalent to forms of PI. 76, 

 figs. 3 and 28. A glance at fig. 25, PI. 1, will show that it is entirely dif- 

 ferent from figs. 3 and 28 in PI. 76. In fact, fig. 25, PL 1, is an Actinoj)- 

 tychus as given by Schmidt, while the other figures belong to Triceratium. 

 Triceratium Amblyoceros E. and T. Marylandicum Br. may be abolished 

 as forms of Triceratia and become Actinoptychus Amblyoceros (Ehr.) 

 A. S., or, as appears to be necessary, Schuettia Amblyoceros (Ehr.) De 

 Toni. It is probable that T. obtusum Ehr. as figured in Mik., PL 18, fig. 

 48, is the form uuder consideration, as there is apparently no other in the 

 deposit, except possibly T. interpunctatum, to which it may be made to 

 apply. By priority, therefore, the name would become Biddulphia obtusa 

 (Ehr.), but on account of the uncertainty it may be as well to retain Ralfs' 

 name. 




722 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



58. Biddulphia Antillarum (Cleve). 



Triceratium Antillarum Cleve, Diat. W. Ind., 16, PL 5, fig. 29 ; 



Schmidt, PI. 99, fig. 14. 

 ? Triceratium punctatum Br. formse hexagona and pentugona Grnn. ; 



Schmidt, PI, 81, figs. 6, 7. 

 Amphipentas Antillarum (Cleve) De Toni. 

 ? B. {Ampfiipentas) punctata V. H., Diat., fig. 206. 



Valve polygonal, with produced angles and concave sides. Sur- 

 face slightly elevated at the centre, with puncta about 4 ia 

 .01 mm., rounded, radiating and extending to the ends of the 

 angles, which appear like processes. L. of v. .115 mm. Very 

 near certain forms of B. Reticulum (Ehr. ), from which it appar- 

 ently differs in the radiation of the puncta and in the form of the 

 angles. 



Campeachy Bay (Schmidt). Fossil at Redondo Beach, Cal., 

 in the hexagonal form, but very rare. 



69. Biddulphia interpunctata (Gnin.). 



Iricerutium iuterpiDictatum Grun., Schmidt, PI. 76, fig. 7. According 

 to I)e Toni (947), near T. elcga/ts Grev., which in turn is said by 

 Grev. to be T. obtusum Ehr., but I think the form is quite distinct. 



Valve triangular, sides straight, and angles rounded. Surface 

 flat, having rounded puncta nearly equal, about 3 in .01 mm., with 

 here and there at intervals much smaller puncta. 



L. of s. .075 mm. to .115 mm. 



A form apparently quite constant. Near B. Americana Ralfs, 

 from which it may be distinguished not only by the interpuucta- 

 tion, but also by the large, round and scattered puncta. Under 

 low powers its color is blue. 



Fossil in the Miocene deposits of the Eastern States. 



60. Biddulphia hebetata Uirun ). 



Triceratium irrcgulare var. hehetata Grnn., V. H. Syn., PI. Ill, fig. 10. 

 Triceratium iutpar A. S., Schmidt, PI. 151, figs, yi-34. 



It is quite difficult to separate Triceratium impar A. S. from 

 certain forms of B. Americaiia and from the present form, which is 

 quite common in the Petersburg deposit. The peculiarity of the 

 angles, however, appears to be sufficient to separate it from T. 

 irrcgulare Grev. 



Valve triangular, with somewhat unequal sides and unequally 

 convex margins. Angles rounded, one of them having puncta 

 about 9 in .01 mm., while in the other two the puncta are about 

 5 in .01 mm. Surface flat, with subquadrate reticidatious ai)out 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 723 



4 in .01 mm., radiating from the bentre toward the margin, where 

 they are about 5 in .01 mm. 



L. of s. .072 mm. 



Fossil in the Miocene deposits of Petersburg and Richmond, Va> 



61. BiddnlpMa heteropora (Gnin.). 



Triceratium [Biddulpkia) Jieteroporum Grun., V. H. ^yn., PI. 112, 

 fig. 2. 



Valve triangular, with nearly straight sides and Slightly unequal 

 and somewhat obtuse angles. Surface slightly convex, with 

 rounded puncta which are scattered, except at the augles where 

 they are crowded, and at the margins where they are arranged in 

 short parallel rows, about 5 in .01 mm. At the centre a small 

 circle of very distinct puncta is seen. L. of s. .125 mm. 



Fossil at Santa Monica (V. H. ), Redondo Beach, Cal. 



62. Biddulphia tessellata (Grev.). 



Triceratium tessellatum Grev., T. M. S. (1861), 71. PI. 8, fig. 14. 

 Triceratium robustum Grev., T. M. S. (1861), 71, PI. 8, fig. 15. 

 Triceratium amoenum Grev., 1. c. 75, PI. 9, fig. 7. 

 Triceratium secernendum A. S., Schmidt, PI. 76, fig. 34. 

 ? Triceratium Fischeri A. S., Schmidt, PI. 76, fig. 34. 



Valve triangular, with straight or slightly concave sides and 

 rounded angles. Surface usually somewhat convex at the centre, 

 with rounded, elliptical, hexagonal or subquadrate reticulations 

 about 3 in .01 mm., but smaller at the centre, arranged in more 

 or less concentric rows and much smaller at the extremities of the 

 angles which appear hyaline under low magnification, where they 

 are from 8 to 15 in .01 mm. Small puncta occasionally occur 

 scattered among the larger. 



L. of s. .049 mm. to .099 mm. Quite variable in size and the 

 coarseness of markings. 



Fossil in the Miocene deposits of the Eastern States. 



As remarked by Cleve, the group to which the present species 

 belongs is " extremely difficult to exactly determine." The form 

 known as T. tessellatum is well described by Greville, but in the 

 case of robustum and amcenum no sufficiently accurate and distinct 

 differences are noted. T. robustum is described as having hyaline 

 spaces at the extremities of the angles, but a careful examination 

 will disclose a fine and indistinct punctation extending to the 

 apices. T. amcenum is merely a small form, while T. secernendum 

 differs from the type only in being somewhat irregular in outline 




724 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



and in having more rounded angles. Familiarity with the Not- 

 tingham deposit will show so many intermediate variations that the 

 number of species might he indefinitely increased, if the distinc- 

 tions in the above forms are assumed to be specific. Many forms 

 are with difficulty distinguished from B. Reticulum E. The varia- 

 tions are well shown also in material from Weymouth, N. J., 

 artesian well. 



63. BiddulpMa Reticulum (Ehr.). 



Triceratium Reticuluvi Ehr., Berl. Akad. (1844), 88 ; Mik., PI. 18, fig. 



50, PI. 33, 16, fig. 13 ; Schmidt, PI. 76, fig. 4. 

 Triceratium sculptum Shadb., T. 31. S. (1854), 15; PI. 1, fig. 4; 



Schmidt, PI. 76, figs. 9, 10, 11, 12, 31. 

 Triceratium obtuswm Br. (not Ehr.). 



Triceratium punctatum Br. (not Wall.), Schmidt, PI. 76, figs. 19, 20. 

 Triceratium Browneanum Grev. 

 Biddulpliia sculpta (Shadb.) V. H. 



Valve triangular or polygonal, with either straight or concave 

 sides. Angles i-ounded, sometimes produced. Surface slightly 

 elevated at the centre and at the angles, with pun eta about 4 in 

 .01 mm., angular, irregular and unequal, mostly larger at the 

 centre. Three or four spines are occasionally noticed about half- 

 way between centre and sides. Groups of puncta frequently occur 

 arranged in three or four small circles. Frustules in zonal view 

 but slightly developed. L. of s. .059 mm. 



Generally distributed along the coast, especially southward. 

 Fossil in the Miocene and later deposits of the Eastern States. 



An examination of many specimens from various localities leads 

 me to the conclusion that if we take the form usually called Tri- 

 ■ceratium punctatum Br. as the type, the forms named scufptum 

 Shadb., tessellatum Grev., robustum Grev. and several others 

 may be included as variations of one species. In order, however, 

 to avoid confusion and because of the difference in the arrange- 

 ment of puncta between tessellatum and robustum on the one hand 

 and Reticulum and like forms on the other, I consider them for 

 the present as distinct. The puncta in all the forms above-men- 

 tioned are usually more or less irregular, the centre in large speci- 

 mens is more likely to show the slight depression within the central 

 elevation than in smaller forms, and the sides and angles vary 

 according to the ordinary laws of })lant nutrition. Shadbolt 

 bases sculptum upon the presence of thi*ee " pseudo-nodule.«, " 

 but, as has been noticed by others, these do not always appear in 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 725 



specimens otherwise similar. A specimen in my collection from a 

 fossil deposit at Absecon, N. J., in which four " pseudo-nodules " 

 are plainly visible, shows the unstable character of this distinc- 

 tion. Two to four spurs may be seen on recent specimens from 

 Yucatan and west coast of Florida which show at the same time 

 the markings of T. sculptum. A specinien from a fossil deposit at 

 Newbern, N. C, which somewhat approaches robustxm shows four 

 very small spines at about one-half the length of radius (see 

 remarks of Schmidt about figs. 4 and 26, PI. 76"). 



64. Biddulphia inelegans (Grev. ). 



TriceraUum inelegans Grev., T. U. S. (1866), 8, PI. % fig. 21 ; 



Schmidt, PI. 81, fig. 16 (not T. obtusum Ehr.,as suggested by several 



authors, as the angles are not the same). 

 TriceraUum Jucatense Grun., Schmidt, PI. 76, fig. 13. 



Valves triangular, with straight, concave or convex sides which 

 are frequently unequal. Angles obtuse. Surface with rounded, 

 irregular and scattered puncta, about 2 or 3 in .01 mm. At the 

 angles, which are sometimes slightly elevated, the puncta are about 

 7 or 8 in .01 mm, L. of s. .089 mm. to .118 mm. 



Var. areopora Grun. has straight sides and scattered puncta. 



Var. Jiicatensis Grun. has straight sides and larger puncta. 



Var. mkropora Grun. has usually smaller and more crowded 

 puncta. 



Campeachy Bay. Fossil at Santa Monica and Redoudo Beach^ 

 Cal. 



65. Biddulphia parvula (Jan. and Rab.). 



AmpJiitetras parvula Jan. and Eixb., Diat. Honduras, 4, PI. 1, fig. 4. 



(not A. parvula Grev.). 

 TriceraUum zonatulatum Grev., T. M. S. (1865), 102, PI. 9, fig. 17 ; 



Schmidt, PI. 77, figs. 33-37, PI. 94, fig. 9 



Valve triangular or quadrangular, with deeply concave sides, 

 producing, in the latter form, a cruciform outline with rounded 

 angles. Surface of central part hyaline, excepting a few indistinct 

 puncta, but at the angles the puncta are in parallel rows about 8 in 

 .01 mm. W. of V. .059 mm. 



Honduras. Rare. The triangular form nut yet noticed iuj 

 North America. 



47 




726 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



66. Biddulphia semicircularis (Br.). 



Triceratium semicirculare Br., M. M. J. (1853), 259, PI. 4, fig. 21 ; 



V. H. S.yn., PI. 126, fig. 20. 

 Triceratium obtusum Ehr. (in part), Mik., PI. 18, fig. 49. 

 Euodia Briglwellii Ealfs, Prit., 852. 



Valve lunate, appearing as if divided half-way between the cen- 

 tre and the obtuse ends by two very faint costate lines. Surface 

 elevated at the centre and at the ends, with rounded puncta, about 

 3 in ,01 mm., concentric and radiating from a hyaline centre, 

 smaller at the ends. L. of v. averages .099 mm. 



Fossil in the Miocene deposits of the Eastern States. 



Biddulphia semicircularis Asburyana Boyer, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila. (1898), 469, 

 i'l. 2 J, flg. 3. 



Valve arcuate with the ends produced and elevated into pro- 

 cesses. Surface not divided by costate lines, convex, with rounded 

 puncta, about 6 in .01 mm. near the hyaline excentric space, in- 

 creasing in size to about 1^ in .01 mm. at the margin. L. of v. 

 .181. 



Not uncoininon iu deposit (Miocene) at Asbury Park, N. J. 



67. Biddulphia Testudo(Brun.). 



Biddulphia ? ? K. and S., Bull. Torr. CI. (1889), 208, PI. 93, fig. 4. 



Tabulina Testudo Brun., Diat. Jiip., 59. PI. G, tig. 8; Schiitt, 82, tig. 

 131. Referred by De Toni to Cheloniodisois, whicli, however, I think 

 it does not resemble. It appears to be a true Biddulphia. 



Valve suborbicular or oblong-elliptical, somewhat flattened, but 

 ivith four large process-like, slight elevations, two of which are 

 inear each end. Surface traversed by an indefinite number of 

 wide, hyaline, curved lines. Two of the lines are more or less 

 transverse to the major axis, while the others appear to radiate 

 indefinitely from a central space and anastomose. Surface with 

 unequal and scattered puncta, about 8 in .01 mm. L. of v. 

 .066 mm. to .089 ram. 



Frustule in zonal view quadrangular, the connective zone having 

 transverse rows of puncta more distinct than those on the valve. 



Fossil in the Miocene deposits of Atlantic City and Weymouth, 

 N. J. 



68. Biddulphia Shulzei Buyer. 



Biddulphia Shulzei Boyer, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. (1S98), 470, 

 PI. 24, figs. 7, 8. 



Valve elliptical, slightly elevated toward the centre, with a large, 



rounded, process-like elevation at each end. Surface with 






1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 727 



rounded, oblong puncta averaging 5 in .01 mm., but for the most 

 part scattering, leaving numerous hyaline spaces. Owing to the 

 irregularity in the distribution of the puncta the circumference of 

 the valve appears to show a scalloped border. L. of v. .115 mm. 



Distinguished from B. TesUido in having but two processes and 

 in being without the hyaliue lines which cross the valve of the 

 latter. A variety with three processes also occurs. 



Fossil at Weymouth, X. J. 



Doubtful Species. 



Triceratium indentatum K. and S. , Torr. Bull. (1889), 210, 

 PI. 92, fig. 4; Wolle, PI. 78, fig. 7; De Toni, 942. From pho- 

 tographs sent me by Dr. Ward, of Poughkeepsie, and Mr. Kain, 

 the following description may be given: Valve triangular, sides 

 •convex. Angles not elevated, bidentate. Surface flat, reticulate, 

 the reticulations subquadrate or hexagonal, 2 to 4 in .01 mm., 

 radiating from the centre where they are larger. L. of s. about 

 .08 mm. This form may, possibly, be classed among the Pseudo- 

 Coscinodisci, unless it should prove to be abnormal. I have not 

 seen any specimens, but the photographs give the general appear- 

 ance of a small form of B. Amerwana (Ralfs) with the angles 

 notched at the apices. The absence of processes as well as angles 

 resembling the ordinary types precludes its admission among the 

 Biddulphice until it has been further examined. Fossil in the 

 artesian well, Atlantic City, N. J. 



Triceratium (Biddulphia) ohliquum Grun., V. H. Syn., PI. 

 110, fig. 11; Wolle, PL 106, fig. 10. Santa Monica, Cal. 



Triceratium Pileolus E., Berl. Akad. (1844), 205; Mik., PI. 

 35^., 21, fig. 17; K. S. A., 140; Weisse, 242, PI. 1, fig. 20; 

 Prit, 856; Wolle, PI. 108, fig. 1. This form is said by Bright- 

 well to be allied to T. brachiolatum Br. (J/. 21. J. (1853), 248, 

 and (1856) 272), which by Ralfs is said to equal T. Pileus E. 

 Ralfs also gives it as equivalent to T. obtwsum Br. (not E. ) (see 

 under B. Reticulum (E.), of which it maybe a variation). As 

 T. obtusum Br. is the only one of the above forms said to be 

 American, it may be unnecessary to refer to the synonymy further. 



Triceratium subcornutum Grun., Schmidt's Atlas, Pj. 99, fig. 

 15-18. Campeachy Bay. Xear T. elegans Grev.? 




728 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Triceratium tripartitum Grun., V. H. Syn., PI. 110, fig. 8; 

 WoUe, PI. 100, fig. 5; De Toni, 945. Campeachy Bay. 



Triceratium uncinatum A. S., Atlas, PI. 94, fig. 4; Wolle, PI. 

 102, fig. 12. Pacific coast of Central America. 



Species Knowx Only by Name. 



Biddulpkia gigas E., Berl. Akad. (1844), 265; Mik., PI. 33, 

 12, fig. 11; Prit., 849; Wolle, PI. 103, fig. 11. Ralfs (in Prit) 

 gives the following description: " Large, very turgid at the centre, 

 rough, without distinct granules, laterally five-jointed, having a 

 large, oblong (pseudo-) opening at each attenuated apex." Ap- 

 parently the above applies to large forms of B. tridens (E. ) with 

 the processes broken off. The habitat attributed by Ralfs to 

 Ehrenberg is " Bermuda " (Nottingham), but Ehrenbe)-g in Mik., 

 PI. 33, 12, fig. 11, gives the Columbia river as the locality. 

 From the uncertainty as to description, figure and locality the 

 name may be dropped without loss. 



The figure given by Wolle, PI. 103, fig. 12, is, as he states, a 

 Melosira. See Bailey, Sil. Jour., 1845, 322, under Gallionella. 



Biddulphia perpusilla " Bail. Coll.," Hahirshaxv Cat., De Toni, 

 878. 



Triceratium aculeatum El. (not Grev. ) E. , J///;., supplement, 16; 

 DeToni, 972; Wolle, PI. 25, fig. 21. There is no description 

 given of this form so far as I can discover. AVolle has made the 

 mistake of taking Greville's description of a form from Barbados 

 {Triceratium aculeatum Grev., T. M. S. (1861), 45) for Ehren- 

 berg's form, and has constructed a " figure suggested by descrip- 

 tion"! Ehrenberg' s form is said to be found in the rice fields ot 

 Gsorgia. 



Triceratium interruptum " Bail. Coll.," Habirshaw Cat. 



Triceratium Parma Bail. Prof. H. L. Smith states {The Lcn^, 

 I, p. 232) that Bailey's " Triceratium Parma is only a triangular 

 form" of Stictodi^cH-s Californicu.9. 



" Triceratium regina Heib." of Wolle, PI. 105, fig. 17, is evi- 

 dently a typographical error and should be Trinacria regina Heib., 

 but Wolle's figure does not correspond to Schmidt's, from which it 

 is said to be taken, and is not the ficrure of a Trinacria. 




1900.] natura.l sciences of thiladelphia. 729 



Species Excluded. 



Amp hitetras cruciata J Sin. and Rab,, Died. Hond., 4, PI. 1, fig. 

 5; De Toni, 905. This form is the same as Amphitetras crucijera 

 ECitton, Seier.ce Goss. (1867), 271, fig. 285; Ralfs mPrit., 858; 

 De Toni, 908, and is also equal to Triceratium cruciatum Leud. - 

 Fort., " Ceylon," 59. It is a variety of Rhapthoneis, and is given 

 in V. H. Syn., PI. 116, fig. 16, as Rhaphoneis amjyhiceros tetragona 

 Grun. , and by Cleve, Vega, pp. 449, 507, PI. 37, fig. 52. b and 

 e, as Rhaphoneis amphiceros cruciata. Habitat, Honduras. 

 Amphitetras crueifera Kitton. See under Amphitetras cruciata. 

 Amphitetras parallela Y,. ; Mik., PI. 19, fig. 20; Kiitz. , S. A., 

 134. 



Triceratium parallelum (E. ) Grev. ; T. 31. S. (1865), 104, 

 PI. 9, figs. 22, 23; Schmidt, PI. 75, figs. 3, 4, 5, 11, 12, 13, PI. 

 76, figs. 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 30; var. Coloniensis Grun., PI. 81, 

 fig. 1; var. Balearica Grun., PL 81, fig. 2; Grun., Alg. Nov., 

 24, 102; V. H. Syn., PI. Ill, figs. 1-6; Wolle, PI. 100, figs. 11, 

 12, 15; Triceratium obtusum (E. ) Cleve, Diat. W. Ind., 16; 

 Trieeratium Gruendleri A. S., PI. 75, fig. 10 (?) ; Nothoceratium ? 

 parallelum (Grev.) De Toni, 915. 



The triangular forms of Triceratium parallelum (E. ) Grev. and 

 the vars. Coloniensis and Balearica are abundant in Campeachy 

 Bay. As remarked by Van Heurck, T. obtusum E. and T. 

 joarallelum (E. ) Grev. are the same in part. Ehrenberg's form 

 from Richmond is possibly equivalent to Ralfs' T. Americanum 

 (5. v.), and approaches that from Campeachy Bay, but it is not 

 exactly like Cleve's form in the markings at the centre. Both 

 these forms and Triceratium Harrisonianum Norm, are true 

 JStictodisci, having the definite arrangement of puncta and the 

 more or less faint parallel or serpentine lines extending inwards 

 from the perimeter. Quite a large number of diatoms figured by 

 8chmidt and by Truau and Witt, among them the beautiful 

 Stictodiscus adspersus (A.. S.) T. and W. , are found at Campeachy 

 Bay and are easily mistaken for Biddulphoid forms, the absence of 

 granules at the centre, usually characteristic of Stictodi'scus, not 

 being noticeable in small specimens. 



Biddulphia bipons E., Berl. Akad. (1844), 273 =:^ Hemiaulus 

 i(Habirshaw). 




730 PROCEEDI>rGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Biddulphiaf lunata E., Berl. Akad. (1844;, 77; Mik., PL 

 18, fig. 53; Prit., S4d ^ Eunotogramma amphioxys E. , Bcrl. 

 Akad. (1855), 302. 



Biddulphia membranaeea Cleve is not included among North 

 American forms. 



Biddulphia Weissflogii Grun. in K. and S. , Bull. Torr. CI. 

 (188^), 208, as stated by Mr. Kain later, is Biddulphia Baileyi 

 Wm. Sm. ^ Biddulphia Mobiliensis (Bail. ) Grun. 



Biddulphia Woolmanii K. and S., T. B. C. (1889), 74, PI. 

 89, fig. 3 ; Wolle, PI. 98, fig. 4 ; De Toni, 872. This form is iden- 

 tical with Salacia Boryana Pant., a specimen of which I have from 

 Borostelek, Hungary. Van Heurck (Diaf., 359) considers 

 Salacia or Castracania (new genus created by De Toni for this 

 species, p. 750) as equivalent to Tetraeyclm, and states that it 

 presents the closest affinity to T. Bhombu-^. There is no doubt, I 

 think, that it is a Tetracyclu^, and I had considered it as probably 

 identical with T. ellipticus (E. ) Grun., having found it in a fossil 

 deposit from Oregon where it was very abundant. Ehrenberg's 

 material was from the " Columbia river," and, possibly, from the 

 same source (John Day Valley). There is no difference between 

 the forms from Oregon and those from Atlantic City, except that 

 in the latter they are frequently corroded. See Schiitt, 102, 

 fig. .180, where it is given as Tetracyelus (Castracania) Boryanuji 

 (Pant.) DeToni. 



Nothoceratium f parallelum (Grev. ) DeToni. See under -1»j- 

 phiteiras parallela E. 



Trieeratium Amblyoceros E. = Actinoptychus. See under Bid- 

 dulphia Americana. 



Trieeratium Brightwelli West = Ditylum. 



Trieeratium cinnamomeum Grev., J/. M. J. (1863), 232; 

 Wolle, PI. 75, fig. 11, PI. 105, fig. 18= Ce^todi^cus einnam€meu.< 

 (Grev. ) Grun. 



Trieeratium crenatum Kitton = Difylum. 



Trieeratium cruciatum Lend. -Fort. See under Amphitetras 

 craciata. 



Trieeratium Ehrenbergii Grun. = Ditylum. 



Trieeratium Gruendleri A. S. See under Amphitetras parallela^ 



Trieeratium Harrisonianum Norm, and Grev., T. M. S. (1861 \ 

 76, PI. 9, fig. 9; Schmidt, PI. 75, figs. 14-16, PI. 81, figs. 8. 9, 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 731 



17, PI. 150, fig. 19. A species of Stlctodi-<ea-^. Habitat, Cam- 

 peachy Bay. The var. follda of Walker and Chase (L. N. and 

 R. Uiat. ), PI. 3, tig. 12, is also found. See yinder Amphitetras 

 parallela. 



Triceratium heterostictum A. S. = Cestodiscus cinnamomeus 

 (Grev. ) Grun, var. minor Grun. ; Schmidt, PI. 151, fig. 28; 

 V. H. Syn., PI. 126, fig. 2. 



Triceratium Marylandicum Br. = Adinoptychus. 



Triceratium obtusum (E. ) Cleve. See nndex Amp hitetras par- 

 allela. 



Triceratium parallelum (E. ) Grev. See under Amphiietras 

 parallela. 



Triceratium pileatum Gru.n. = Pieudo-Coscinodi-iCU-<:, V. H. 

 Syn., Pi. 112, fig. 3. 



Triceratium receptum A. S. (see under T. Shadboltii) ; Schmidt, 

 Atla-'i, PI. 81, fig. 10. Santa Monica, Cai. Apparently near the 

 triangular forms of Biddulphiu Icevi-i or convcviwcula. 



Triceratium Shadboltii L. W. Bailey, B. J. X. H. (1862), 

 .•^42, PI. 8, figs. 60, 61. Xot Xorth American. Habitat, San 

 Antonio Bay, Para river, Brazil. From the figures it would 

 appear to be a small form of Triceratium .spi7wsu7n Bail. Schmidt's 

 comparison of Triceratium receptum A. S. (Atl<(-<, PI. 81, fig. 10) 

 to this form is evidently a mistake. 



Triceratium striolatum Wm. Sm. (not E. ) = Ditylum. 



Triceratium undulatum E. ^ Ditylum. 



PORPEIA Bail. (1861). 

 Valve oblong, tumid in the middle, more or less constricted 

 near the rounded ends, and divided by two transverse septa which 

 extend inward, curving and becoming parallel to the surface. 



Analysis of Species. 



Septa curved. 1. quadriceps. 



Septa parallel to edges of valve, 2. quudrata. 



1. Porpeia quadriceps Bail, (in lit.). 



Porpeia quadriceps Bail., Prit., 850, PI. 6, fig. 6. Var. intermedia 

 Grun., V. H. Syn., Pi. 95 bis, fig. 14 ; Schmidt, PI. 142, figs. 46-5-2. 

 Biddulphia clatulata Ehr., Bed. Akad. (1861), 94? 



Valve rounded at both ends, which are constricted into lobes 

 and inflated at the middle. Ends of valve more or less elevated. 




732 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



From the junction of each process with the valve a septum extends 

 downward curving more or less toward the centre. Surface of 

 valve usually flattened and covered with granules, which are more 

 crowded on the processes, about 6 in .01 mm. Zonal view quad- 

 rangular, the connective zone having puncta in parallel rows. L. 

 of V. averages .029 mm. 



Carapeachy Bay; Gulf of Mexico. 

 2.1Porpeia quadrata firtv. 



Poriuia quadrata Grev., T. M. S. (1865). 53, PI. 6, fig. 20 ; Schmidt, 

 PI. 142, fig. 3S and figs. 53-5G (fig. as quadriceps). 



Valve as in quadriceps, except that the processes are but slightly 

 elevated and the septa extend inward in a direction more or less 

 parallel to the edge of the valve as seen in zonal view. L. of v. 

 .082 mm. Connected with the preceding by intermediate forms. 

 The variations in the curves of the septa arc determined by the 

 length of the valve. 



Fossil at Santa Monica, Cal. 



TERPSIN0EEhr.(1843). 



Valve elliptical or triangular, more or less constricted by septa 

 which are prominent and in zonal view appear either straight or 

 curved at the ends. Surface reticulated or punctate, sometimes 

 indistinctly so. Closely allied to Anaidn.^, from which it is chiefly 

 distinguished by the character of the septa. 



Analysis of Species. 



Valves elliptical, reticulate or coarsely punctate: 

 Septa curved : 



Surface not reticulate, 1. Musica. 



Surface reticulate, 2. intermedia. 



Sftpta not curved, •^. Brebissonii. 



Valves elliptical or triangular, indistinctly punctate: 



Puncta radiating from hyaline centre, ... 4. Americuna. 

 Puncta scattered except at angles and centre, 5. Novae- Cossarece. 



1. Terpsinoe Musica 1-hr. 



Terpsinoe Musica Ehr., Auier., PI. 3. 4. fig. 1:3. 7, fig. 30; Mik., 



PI. 34, 6, ^. 8 ; Schmidt, PI. 199, figs. 9-13, PI. 200, figs. 7, 8. 

 Terpsinoe magna Bail., L. W. Bail., B. J. N. H., 340, figs. 46, 50-54. 

 'J'erpsinoe tetragrarnma Bail., /. c. 

 Terjysinoe viiriima Bail., /. c. 



Valve elliptical, witli undulating sides and lobed at the ends, 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 738 



divided by septa into three or more parts. Surface with coarse 

 puncta, about 8 in .01 mm., uot radiating, much finer at the 

 ends. On the connective zone the puncta are about 12 in .01 mm. 

 An irregular nodular centre is usually visible. Frustule in zonal 

 view quadrangular, the septa with their inner margins curved and 

 thickened on the edges, presenting the appearance of musical notes. 



Variable in size and in the divisions of the valves. L. of v. 

 averages .165 mm. 



Marine and fresh water. Delaware river mud (Liewis); St. 

 Mary's river, Ga. (Lewis). More common southward. 



2. Terpsinoe intermedia Grun. 



Terpsiiioe interme(1ia Grun., Diat. Franz .Tos. Land. 59 ; Schmidt, PI. 



199, figs. 1-8 ; PI. 200, figs. 1-6 ; PI. 198, fig. 65. 



Valve elliptical with undulating sides, and divided by septa into 

 several divisions. Surface punctate and reticulated, sometimes 

 indistinctly so, the reticulations irregular and unequal, about 2 or 

 3 in .01 mm. Septa usually not thickened as in Musica, but bent 

 near the edge. The nodular centre is, in most specimens, quite pro- 

 nounced. L. of V. .17-4 mm. 



Mobile (Schmidt). Fossil at Nottingham (Brun), Atlantic 

 City (K. and S. ), Asbury Pai'k and Longport, N. J. 



Terpsinoe intermedia latecavata (Erun) differs from the type in 

 outline, which is rhombic-elliptical Avith produced ends. Brun 

 remarks that this form belongs to Terpsinoe as much as to Anaulus 

 and is near T. intermedia Grun. See on Anaulus (Terpsinoe) 

 latecavatus Brun, Diat. Jap., 16, PI. 1, fig. 13. 



Fossil at Nottingham (Brun). 



3. Terpsinoe BreWssonii (Kutz.) V. H. 



Terpsinoe {Pleurodesmium) Brehissonii (Kiitz.) V. H., Diat., 453. 

 Pleurodesmiuvi Brebisso7iii Kutz., Bot. Zeit. (1846), 248 ; Schmidt, PL 



200, figs. 15-19. 



Valve elliptical with undulating sides and slightly lobed at the 

 ends. Surface divided by septa into five compartments, with 

 puncta averaging 6 in .01 mm. L. of v. .066 mm. 



Frustule in zonal view quadrangular, with septa capitate but not 

 appearing curved. Connective zone with fine puncta, about 15 

 in .01 mm. The frustules are said by De Brebisson to be con- 

 nected by " threads," and by Van Heurck by " short processes 

 in the form of feet," which are best seen in specimens mounted in 




734 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



situ and appear to belong to the membrane enveloping the frus- 

 tules. 



Cedar Keys, Fla. , and southward 



4. Terpsinoe Americana (Bail.) Ralfs. 



Teti-arjramma Americana Bail., N. Sp., 7, fig. 1. 

 Terpsinoe Americana (Bail.) Ralfs, Prit., 859 : Schmidt, PI. 200< figs. 

 9-13. 



Valve with undulating outline, lobed at each end, and lobed or 

 inflated at each side; divided by septa into three or more parts. 

 Surface with coarse but rather indistinct puncta, about 6 in .01 

 mm., which radiate interruptedly from a hyaline centre. Frus- 

 tule in zonal view quadrangular with septa extending about half- 

 way into the valve. L. of v. .059 mm. 



Marine and fresh water. Hudson river; Rockaway, L. I. ; 

 Charleston; St. Augustine; Tampa Bay (Bail.). Fossil at 

 At! ami c City and Harvey Cedars, N. J. 



5. Terpsinoe Novae-Caesareae Boyer. 



Ilydrosera {Tcrpftinoe f) Novm-denareae Boyer, Torr. Bull. (1895), 

 263 ; Lewis Woolman, Aim. Rep. Geol. Sur. N. J. (1894), PI. G, fig. 

 2 ; Le Diatomiste, 2, 207. 



Valve triangular, sides concave. Angles broad at the base, 

 equally threelobed. Surface flat, divided by straight septa separ- 

 ating the angles from the central part, which is for the most part 

 hyaline, except at the centre, where a few puncta are seen. 

 Angles witli faint, scattered puncta, about 7 in .01 mra. Connec- 

 tive zone with faint puncta. W. of v. averages .062 mm. Fossil 

 in artesian well, Wildwood, N. .J. ; Cold Spring. L. I. (Reis)? 



HYDROSERA \\ allich (1858). 



Valves quadrangular in zonal view and elliptical or triangular 

 in valve view. The angles arc separated from the central part by 

 septa which extend inward but a short distance. There is usually 

 present on one side of each valve an indistinct mark. Surface of 

 valves granular or cellular. 



Hydrosera triquetra Wall. 



Hydrosera triquetra Wall.. M. M. J. (1S58), 251. PI. 13, figs. 1-12 ; 



Schmidt, PI. 78, figs. 36-38; Deby, Jour, de Micrographie (1891), 



PI. 1, fig. 1. 

 Not Triceratium Javanicum Cleve. 



Cleve (i\r. and L. K. D., 24) considers this form possibly a 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 735 



variety of Hydrosera triquetra Wall. Both Deby and De Toni 

 consider the two equivalent. A slide in my collection of T. Ja- 

 vanicum Cleve, mounted by Brun, shows the valve with unequal 

 granular markings, more closely resembling those of H. Wham- 

 poense than the markings of H. triquetra. 



Valve triangular or elliptical, sides slightly convex, the angles 

 constricted by strong septa which separate them from the central 

 part. Surface with angular reticulations, about 6 in .01 mm. at 

 centre and increasing outward to about o in .01 mm., the ex- 

 tremities of the angles appearing hyaline. Inner surface or sec- 

 ondary layer of valve punctate, somewhat as in Biddidpliia Favus, 

 but the pun eta are coarser. Xear one of the sides is frequently 

 seen below the surface of the valve a line with two or three gran- 

 ules, which Mr. Deby well remarks are " often illusory." The line 

 appears to be a projection of a siliceous plate from the cell wall and 

 is more easily seen if the valve is examined from the under side. 

 Pritchard's figures (Inf., PI. 6, figs. 8, 13) exaggerate the 

 " digmata." Zonal view quadrangular, the septa entering the 

 valve obliquely. Connective zone appearing hyaline. I have not 

 been able to find in the fossil forms the minute spines said to occur 

 at the extremities of the angles. L. of s. .099 mm. to .132 mm. 



Fossil at Atlantic City, N. J., in the triangular form only. 

 Carpentaria Bay (Schmidt). 



ANAULUS E. (1844), Em. V. H. (1881). 



Valves more or less elliptical or lunate, divided into three or 

 more parts by septa which usually constrict the margins. Surface 

 without elevation, with puncta usually radiate from an occasionally 

 nodular centre or arranged in transverse lines. 



Analysis of Species. 



Valves elliptical: 



Without central nodule, 1. Mediterraneus. 



With central nodule : 



Not beaked at extremities, 2. hirostratus. 



Beaked at the extremities, 3. acutus. 



Valves lunate {Eunotogramma) : 



Puncta somewhat scattered 4. IorvIs. 



Puncta in transverse rows, 5. debilis. 




736 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900, 



1. Anaulus Mediterraneus Grun. 



Anaulns Mediterraneus Grun., V. H. Syn., PI. 102, fig. 8-11. 



Valve elliptical, rounded at the ends, divided by two septa into 

 three parts. Surface convex with scattered puncta, 5 or 6 in 

 .01 mm. No central nodule visible. L. of v. .066 mm. 



Fossil at Atlantic City, Asbury Park and Longport, N. J. 

 Occasional specimens from Weymouth, N. J. , show but one septum. 



Anaulus Mediterraneus intermedins Grun. 



Anaulus Mediterraneus var. intermedia Grun., V. H. Syn., PI. 10*2) 

 fig. 9. 



Valve constricted at the centre and at the ends ; otherwise as in 

 A. Mediterraneus. 



Fossil in the Miocene deposits of California and the Eastern 

 States. 



There are several intermediate variations found in the Notting- 

 ham, Longport and other deposits, which lead to the conclusion 

 that the above forms might be united under one specific name. 



2. Anaulus birostratus (irun. 



Anaulus birostratus Grun., Y. II. Syn., PI. 22 bis, fig. 15 ; PI. 103, 



figs. 1-3. 

 Biddulphia birostrata GTVLn., ^Yien YerhamU. (1863), 153, PI. 13, fig. 



23. 



Valve elliptical-lanceolate, usually constricted near the ends; 

 angles obtuse. Surface divided by septa into three parts, the cen- 

 tral one being square in outline, with scattered puncta, about 4 

 in .01 mm. J more evident near the centre, at which a nodule is 

 usually quite apparent. L. of v. .105 mm. 



Fossil in the Miocene deposits of California and the Eastern 

 States. Found also living on the shores of Peru, Virgin Islands, 

 West Indies, etc., and may, therefore, be looked for northward. 



3. Anaulus acutus l?run. 



Anaulus acutus Brun., Le Diatomiste, 2, 231, PI. 20, figs. 15-18. 



Valve more or less constricted at the midtllo with the ends pro- 

 duced. Near A. birostratits, from which it differs, according to 

 Brun, in having its valves, seen in zonal view, " joiued by their 

 extremities in the form of beaks." Puncta scattered, 5 or 6 in 

 .01 mm. L. of v. .105 nun. 



Fossil at Santa Crux (Brun); AVildwood, N. J. (Bruu); Re- 

 doudo Beach, Cal. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 737 



4. Anaulus laevis (Gnin.) V. H. 



Eunotofjrarama loeve Gnin., V. H. Svn., PI. 126, figs. 6, 7, 9, 15 ; 

 Schiitt, fig. 171, A, B. 



Valve lunate, with obtuse ends; and with or without slight 

 constrictions at the prominent septa, which usually number from 

 four to six. Surface marked with rather indistinct puncta, some- 

 what scattered, about 8 in .01 mm. Zonal view sharply quad- 

 rangular, the connective zone having transverse but somewhat 

 distant rows of fine puncta. L. of v. .046 mm. 



Coast of North Carolina and Florida; stomachs of fish, coast 

 of South Carolina. Not common. Fossil at Buckshuten, N. J. ; 

 Atlantic City artesian well, N. J. 



5. Anaulus debilis (Gmn.) V. H. 



Anaulus debilis (Grun.), V. H. S.yu., 202. 



Eunotogramma debile Grun., V. H. Syn., PI. 126, figs. 17, 18, 19. 



Valve lunate with margins entire. Transverse septa more 

 numerous than in A. kevis. Surface with puncta in transverse 

 rows, about 15 in .01 mm. L. of v. .049 mm. 



Very near A. kevis, with intermediate forms. 



West river, Conn. ; Campeachy Bay (V. H. ). 



Species Excluded. 



Anaulus Campylodkcus E. , Prit., 859; Euodia Frauenfeldii 

 Grun., Wien Verhandl. (1863), 158, PI. 14, fig. 19; Eunoto- 

 gramma Frauenfeklii Grun., V. H. Syn., PI. 126, fig. 14; 

 De Toni, 892. Habirshaw refers this to Grunow's form, appar- 

 ently because Grunow says {I. c. ) that the latter appears to bear 

 Eome resemblance to the quite insufficiently described Anaulus 

 Campy lodiscus. The reference is probably incorrect. Ehren- 

 berg's locality is given as " Bermuda" (Nottingham), and his 

 form may possibly be Biddulphia seraicircularis (Br.). 



Eunotogramma amphioxijs E., Berl. ATcad. (1855), 302; 

 De Toni, 892. This form is given as equivalent to Biddulphia f 

 lunaki E., Bed. Akad. (1844), 77; MiL, PI. 18, fig. 53; Kiitz., 

 S. A., 138; Prit, 849. It is described in Prit. as " three-lobed, 

 smooth, slightly curv'ed, lunate, with subacute horns." The form 

 is unknown to me. 



HUTTONIA Gr. and St. (1887). 



The generic diagnoses not yet having been made and the genus 

 ncluding species unlike the only American form thus far discov- 




738 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



ered, it is considered unnecessary to do more than give specific 

 characteristics. De Toni remarks that the "■ genus is scarcely to 

 be preserved" and that " j^erhaps it should be united with 

 Triceratium or with Odontella." The processes appear like those 

 of Cerataidm, while the outline and septa partake of the character- 

 istics of Anaulus Mediterraneus. 



Huttonia Keichardtii Griin. 



Uuttonia Reichardtii Gtww., Just's Jahresb. (181^7), 279; Schmidt, 



PI. 116, fig. 4. 

 Cerataulus (?) Reicliardtii Grun., Wien Verhaad. (1863), 158, PI. 13, 



fig. 22. 



Valve elliptical, divided by two somewhat irregular, transverse, 

 imperfect septa. Surface not elevated, punctate, the puncta about 

 9 in .01 mm., in irregular, somewhat oblique rows. I^ear each 

 end, on opposite sides, an indefinite, truncate process extends 

 obliquely outward. Zonal view quadrangular. L. of v. .049 

 mm. In a specimen from Wildwood, X. J., one of the pro- 

 cesses is obsolete. 



Fossil in the Miocene deposits of Virginia {'Grun.;; Aiiantic 

 City (K. and S. ) ; Weymouth, X. J.; Wildwood. X. J. Rare. 



HEMIAULUS Klir. OSJJ) Km. U. L.Smith. 



Valves elliptical or triangular, with the ends or angles usually 

 extended into robust processes which are frequently mucronate. 

 Surface usually more or less depressed at the centre, but occa-siou- 

 ally divided by costtc into rounded elevations, with puncta usually 

 coarse aud prominent. Valves of same frustule not always equal. 



Analysis of Speciei^. 



Valves triangular, 1. Solenoceros. 



Valves elliptical: 



Processes short, 2. bipon^. 



Processes long: 

 Valves costate : 



Surface divided into elevations, ... 3. polymorphi.<. 



Surface not so divided, 4 pobjcktinorum. 



Valves not costate : 



With minute spiue near end of process, . . 5. Kitionii. 

 With spiue on end of truncate process, . . 6. Moniccc. 

 Without spines, 7. Calijornicus. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 739 



1. Hemiaulus Solenoceros (Ehr.) 



Triceralium Solenoceros Ehr., Berl. Akad. (1844), 273 ; Schmidt, PI. 



77, fig. 21 ; PI. 9G, %• 11 ; PI. 97, tigs. 6. 7. 

 Triceratium Ugulatum Grev., T. M. S. (1864), 91, PI. 13, fig. 9. 

 Triceratium Kittonianum Grev.. T. M. S. (1865), 8. 



Valve triangular, with deeply concave sides and angles produced 

 into slender arms, from the extremities of which extend at right 

 angle? truncated, "hammer-like" processes which are usually- 

 less than .01 mm. in height. Surface elevated at the nodular 

 centre, from which puncta about 5 in .01 mm., although somewhat 

 larger toward the extremities, radiate along the produced angles 

 in three or four nearly jiarallel rows. W. of v. .132 mm. 



Fossil in the Miocene deposits of the Eastern States. 



Greville, in his description of Triceratium Kittonianum, lays 

 stress on the presence of the pseudo-nodule which, he says, " like 

 a hammer," projects above and below the connective zone, and 

 also upon the hexagonal reticulations as distinguishing his species 

 from Triceratium Solenoceros Ehr. An examination of numerous 

 specimens from the INottiugham deposit shows that ihe I'eticulation 

 is more or less hexagonal in all and that there is considerable 

 variation in the amount of elevation of the processes, as is men- 

 tioned by Heiberg in his descripticm of Trinacria Recjina, due 

 occasionally to their being broken off, but quite often to their 

 imperfect development, it being somewhat difficult to find valves 

 in which all three processes are of exactly the same height. While 

 I have not seen the curved spines characteristic of Trinacria at the 

 apices of the processes, yet the roughened edges occasionally appear 

 to indicate the possibility of their having been originally present, 

 and the close resemblance of the American forms to those de- 

 scribed by Heiberg under Trinacria leave no doubt, I think, of 

 their generic character. 



Trinacria is united to Hemiaulus in accoraance with the views 

 of Van Heurck, Brun and others, the difference being chiefly 

 that of outline. Trinacria excavata Heib. , which is given by some 

 authors as equivalent to this form, differs from it in having much 

 larger marginal reticulations. The Habirshaiv Catalogue gives 

 Trinacria Rcgina Heib. as a synonym, but I think this is also 

 distinct. The three forms are, however, closely allied. 




740 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900, 



2. Hemiaulus bipons (Ehr. ?) Grun. 



Zyfjoceros bipons Ehr., Bed. Akad. (1844), 273. 



Hemiaulus bipons (Ehr. ?) Grun., Fr. Jos. L., 13; V. H. Syn., PI. 

 103, figs. 6-9. 



Valve elliptical-lanceolate, acute at the ends, divided into three 

 nearly equal parts by two robust transverse costte. In zonal view 

 the surface is depressed at the centre, the sharply defined edges of 

 valve extending into a double keel along the short processes, 

 each of which bears a short, stout, incurved spine. Puncta 

 rounded, 3 in .01 mm. L. of v. .075 mm. 



Fossil in the Miocene deposits of the Eastern States, especially 

 at Nottingham and Richmond. 



3. Hemiaulus polymorphus Virginicus Grun.'' 



Hemiaulus polijmorphus Virginicus Grun., Fr. Jos. L., 14. PI. i>, fig. 

 46 ; Schmidt, PI. 143, fig. 31. 



Valve elliptical-lanceolate, with the margin apparently but not 

 really constricted by the transverse costie which, variable iu num- 

 ber, divide the surface into rounded elevations, of which the cen- 

 tral is usually the largest and more elevated. Processes robust, 

 seldom more thau half the length of valve, each with a strong 

 inwardly curved spine .01 mm. in length. Puncta 6 or 7 in 

 .01 mm., not in regular rows. L. of v. averages .048 mm. 



Fossil at Richmond, Va. 



4. Hemiaulus polyoistinorum Ehr. 



Heinianlas pnUjcistiaoruni Ehr., Mik., PI. 30, fig. 43, a-d ; Schmidt, 

 PI. 143, tigs." 23-29. 



Valve elliptical-lanceolate, acute at the ends, divided by two or 

 more costai which are usually but slightly depressed. Surface 

 either depressed toward the centre or flat. Processes usually long 

 aud robust, terminated by a short, stout, incurved spine. Puncta 

 rounded, pearly aud prominent, especially on the processes, where 

 they are about 3 in .01 mm. L. of v. averages .083 mm. 



Nottingham (" Stratford Cliffs," Ehr.). 



5. Hemiaulus Kittonii Grun. 



Hemiaulus Kittonii Grun., V. H. Syn., PI. 10(5, figs. 6-9 ; Schmidt, PI. 



142, tigs. 2-8. 11. 

 Hemiaulus sp. Kitton., J. Q. C. (1870), PI. 14, fig. 2. 



Valve elliptical, without costte. Surface slightly raised at centre, 



••Schmidt states [Atlas, PI. 143) that, according to Witt's opinion. Hemi- 

 aulus polymorphus Grun. is identical with Hemiaulus Proteus Heib., and 

 that the latter name has the right of priority. The variety Virffinicug 

 Grun. and other forms known as //. poli/morphus differ from JJ. Proteus in 

 not havimi the marcins constricted at the middle. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 741 



with puucta iu irregular rows on the valve, but parallel on pro- 

 cesses, about 10 in .01 mm. Processes slender, .049 mm. in 

 length, incurved, terminated by a fine straight mucronate spine, at 

 the base of which, on the outer edge of each process, a minute 

 spiue projects. L. of v. .019 mm. 

 Vera Cruz. Rare. 



6. Hemiaulus Monicae Gmn. 



Hemiaulus Monicce Grun., Fr. Jos. L., 10. 



Valve elliptical. Processes robust, short and truncate, tipped 

 with a minute spine. Surface slightly elevated at the centre, with 

 puncta somewhat irregular, 4 in .01 ram., but becoming smaller 

 toward the ends of the processes, where they are about 7 iu 

 .01 mm. L. of v. .022 ram. 



Xear H. symmeirkm Grev. (T. M. S., 1865, 53, PI. 6, fig. 22), 

 from which it differs in having the puncta less regularly disposed. 



Fossil at Santa Monica, Cal. ; Richmond (De Toui). 



7. Hemiaulus Californicus Ehr. ? 



Hemiaulus Californicus Ehr., Mik., PI. 33, 13, fig. 15. 



Valve elliptical with robust processes. Costjc wanting, but in 

 zonal view a slight depression is seen where the processes join the 

 surface. Puncta more or less hexagonal, about 4 iu .01 ram., in 

 longitudinal rows. L. of v. .019 mm. 



Fossil in California (Ehr. ) ; Richmond, Va. 



It is with some hesitation that the above description of specimens 

 in my collection is attributed to H. Californicus, as Ehrenberg's 

 figure is not sufficiently clear, but it is evident, I think, that the 

 figure is intended to represent a small form having slight depres- 

 sions at the junction of processes with the surface, and Avith puncta 

 iu longitudinal rows. The only other species, probably, to which 

 the American forms cau be referred is affinis Grun., which, how- 

 ever, raay be identical Avith Californicus. 



PLOIARIA Pant. (1889). 



Valves elliptical-lanceolate, elevated at the centre, which is 

 separated from the ends by depressions which appear like costje. 

 Puncta coarse. In general the valves resemble those of Hemi- 

 aulus, but are without processes. Includes but one species. 



48 




742 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Ploiaria petasiformis Pant. 



Hemiaulus ? petasiformis Pant., Foss. Bacill. Ung., I, 48, PI. 29. 



fig. 295. 

 Ploiaria 11 etasif or mis Pant., I. c. 2, PI. 28, figs. 403, 405. 



Valve elliptical-lanceolate or elliptical-rhomboidal, acute at the 

 ends, divided transversely by two lines, apparently costse, into 

 three parts, the two outer being flattened or slightly concave, while 

 the central part is convex. Surface with puncta about 6 in .01 

 mm., more or less radiating from an apparent nodule which is 

 usually excentric. In zonal view the valves appear petasiform and 

 are slightly unequal. L. of v. .059 ram. to .082 mm. 



Fossil at Nottingham and Atlantic City. Not common. Some- 

 times mistaken for Hemiaulus bipons Ehr. 



GKAYA Grove and Bruu. (1892). 



Valve elliptical, appearing hyaline under low magnification. 

 Surface undulating, with fine puncta chiefly along the longitudinal 

 axis and radiating from a nodular centre. Represented by one 

 species which is closely related to Eucampia. 



Graya Argonauta Grove and Bnin. 



Gray id Argonauta Grove and Brun., Schmidt, PI. 192, fig. 11. 

 Graya Argonauta Brun. and Grove, V. H. Diat., 458, fig. 187. 



Valve elliptical or elliptical-lanceolate, with rounded ends. 

 Surface convex, elevated at the centre and ends, but usually 

 appearing beveled at the middle of the sides; subtly punctate near 

 the margin, the puncta becoming more prominent along the longi- 

 tudinal axis, where they are about 7 in .01 mm., radiating im- 

 equally from a nodular centre. Zonal view quadrangular. The 

 connective zone appears to increase by the addition of successive 

 plates which overlap each other. L. of v. .099 mm. to .181 mm. 



Av. 1. of frustule .099 mm. 



Fossil in the elliptical form at Nottingham and in the elliptical- 

 lanceolate form at Redondo Boach. Cal. 



EUCAMPIA Khr. (ISSii.) 



Valves elliptical with undulating surface. In zonal view the 

 frustules appear more or less cuneiform and are joined together in 

 spiral chains. They are imperfectly siliceous, notably so in the 

 connective zones which are annulate. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 743 



Eucampia Zodiacus Ehr. 



Eiicampia Zodiacus Ehr., Kreideth, Berl. Akad. (1839), 71, PI. 4, 

 fig. 8 ; Wm. Sm., Brit. Diat., 3, 25, PI. 35, fig. 299 ; PI. 60, fig. 299 ; 

 V. H. Syn., PL 95, fi^s. 17, 18 ; 95 bis, figs. 1, 2. 



Eucampia? Virginiea Gran., V. H. Syn., PI. 95, his, fig. 6. 



Eucampia Britannica Wm. Sm., Brit. Diat., 2, 25, PI. 61, fig. 378. 



Valve elliptical with rounded ends. Surface with slight eleva- 

 tions at the nodular centre and at the ends, the puncf.a, about 

 7 in .01 mm., radiating from the centre to the sides where they are 

 about 10 in .01 mm. Ends of valves hyaline. Zonal view cunei- 

 form, the connective zone annulate and very indistinctly punctate. 



L. of V. .115 mm. 



Xewport, R. I. (Lewis). Fossil in the Miocene deposits of the 

 Eastern States. Rare. 



I have not seen the connective zone of the fossil form known as 

 Eucampia Virginiea, but as the valves correspond exactly Avith 

 those of E. Zodiacus, the two are doubtless identical. 



The distinction made by William Smith between the two forms, 

 E. Zodiacus and E. Britannica, is not specific, as spiral filaments 

 may be seen in which some frustules have their sides " exca- 

 vated," while others, in the same filament, have merely undulating 

 surfaces without any " foramina between the joints." 



LiTHODESMiuM, a gcnus included by Van Heurck. De Toni and 

 others among the Biddulphoid forms, is here omitted as it appears 

 to have scarcely any of their characteristics. Its frustules are 

 united by a reticulated siliceous membrane, and in other respects 

 it appears to be more closely allied to Ditylum. 



Index. 



Synonyms are in Italics. 



PAGE PAGE 



aculeatum 'Ehr. (Triceratimn) . 728 alternans Bail. {Triceratium) . 719 



aculeatumGvev. {Triceratium) 728 alteriians Ehr. {Amphipentas) . 717 



acuta (Ehr. ) (Biddulphia) ... . 706 AmhlyocerosBx:. {Triceratium) . 721 



acutum Ehr. {Triceratium) 706 AmblifocerosY.\\x.{ Triceratium) 721 



acutus Brun. ( Anaulus) 736 Americana (Ralls) (Biddulphia) 721 



aflinis Grun. (Hemianlus) 741 Americana (Bail. ) Ralfs (Terp- 



alternans H. L. Smith {Amphi- sinoe) 734 



tetras) 716 AmericaHaBsii\.{Tetragramma) 734 



alternans (Bail.) V. H. (Biddul- Americanum Ealfs '{Tricera- 



phia) 719 Hum) 721 




744 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1900. 



PAGE 



amoinum Grev. ( Tdceratiiim) . 723 

 amphiceros cruciata Cleve (Rha- 



phoneis) 729 



amphiceros tetragona Grun. 



(Rhaphr)neis) 729 



ainphioxys Ehr. (Eunotogram- 



ma) 737 



Anaulus Ehr 735 



angulata A. S. (Biddulphia) . . . 705 

 anguldta (A. S. ) De Toni 



{Odontella) 705 



antediluviana Ehr. {Amphite- 



tras) 716 



antediluviana (Ehr.) V. H. 



{Biddulphia) 716 



antediluvianum Grun. {2'ricer- 



aiiuvi) 716 



Antillarum (Cleve) (Biddul- 

 phia) 722 



Antilhiruin C\e\e{TriceraHuin) 722 

 Antilliirunt (Cleve) De Toni 



(Amj)hipentas) 722 



arctica (Br.) (Biddulphia) .... 714 

 arcticum^r. {Triccrdtium) ... 714 

 arcticum Cleve {Tricjoniina) . . . 714 

 Argonaiita Grove and Brun. 



(Graya) 742 



Argus Boyer (Biddulphia) 701 



ar isat a Shadh. {Amphidtras) . 717 

 armatum Koper {Triceratium). 703 

 aurita (Lyng.) Breb. (Biddul- 

 phia) 699 



aurita (Lyng.) Ag. ( Odontella) 699 



mirita Ehr. {iJenticella) 699 



auritum hyng. {Diatoma) 699 



australis Mout. {Biddulphia). G94 



i?««7<'yt Wm. Sm. {Biddnlphia) 698 

 Bala;na(Elir.)Br. (Biddulphia) 713 



BaUana Ehr. {Z//f/oreros) 713 



hicorne Cleve ( Trieeratium) . . . 707 

 bicornis (Cleve) De Toni {Am- 



phitetr((s) 707 



Biddulphia Gray 690 



BiddtilphiaEhT. {Denticella). . 694 

 Biddulphia Heib. {Tricerati- 



nm) 704 



Biddulphiaua (Smith) (Biddul- 

 phia) 694 



BiddulphianaSm\th(Conferva ) 694 

 Biddnlphianum Ag. (Diatoma) 694 

 bipons (Elir.?) Grun. (Hemiau- 



lus) 740 



bipons Ehr. (Zi/qoceros) 740 



bipons Ehr. (Bidditlphia) 729 



biquadrata (Jan.) (Biddulphia) 717 

 biquadratuni Jan. (IVicerati- 

 um) 717 



PAGE 



birostrata Grun. {Biddulphia). 736 

 birostratus Grun. (Anaulus) . . . 736 



Boryana Pant. (Salacia) 730 



Brebissonii (Kiitz) V. H. (Terp- 



sinoe) 733 



Brebissonii Kiitz {Pleurodes- 



mium) 733 



bremnertium Grev. (Tricera- 



tium) 718 



Brighticellii West ( Triceratium) 730 

 Brighttcellii Kalfs (Euodia). . . 726 

 Britannica Wm. Sm. {Eucain- 



pia) 743 



Brittouiana K. and S. (Biddul- 

 phia) 698 



Browneanum Grev. ( Tricera- 

 tium) 724 



bullosum Witt {Triceratium) . . 707 



Californica(A. S.) (Biddulphia) 711 

 Californicum Grun. (lYicera- 



tixim) 700 



C((Ufornirus A.S. (Ceratauhis) 711 

 Calit'oruicusGrev. (Stictodiscus) 741 

 Californicus Ehr. (Hemiaulns) . 741 

 Campeachiana (Grun.) (Biddul- 

 phia) 707 



Campeachiana (Grun.) DeToni 



(Amphiti tras) 707 



Campearhianum Grun. (Tricer- 

 atium) 707 



Campylodiscus Ehr. (Anaulus) 737 



capcnsis Grun. (Isthmia) 689 



cinnamomeum Grev. (Tricera- 

 tium) 730 



cinnamomcus (Grev.) Grun. 



( Ccstodiscus) 730 



Circinus (Bail.) Y. H. (Biddul- 

 phia) 713 



Circinus Bail. (Zi/goceros). . . . 713 

 clavulaia Ehr. (Biddulphia) . . 731 

 comptu)n Ehr. {IVicratium) . . 706 

 condecora (Ehr.) (Biddulphia) 720 

 conde^orum Ehr. (Trici rtiti'mi) 720 

 C3nsimilis(Grun.) (Biddulphia) 709 

 consimih Grun. (Triciratium) 709 

 couvexiuscuIa(Grun.) (Biddul- 

 phia) 709 



concexiusculum Grun. (Tricer- 

 atium) 709 



Cookiana K. and S. (Biddul- 

 phia) .' 702 



Coofi-iiina (K. and S.) De Toni 



(Odontella) 702 



costulata (Grun.) (Biddulphia) 720 

 crenatum Kitton (Trireriitium) 7.">0 

 crenulatii Walker (Biddulpliia) 709 




1900.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



745 



PAGE 



crucinta 3 a.n. and Eab. {AmpM- 



tetras) 729 



cruciatum Leud.Fort. {Tri- 



ceratium ) 729 



crucifera Kitton {Amphitetras) 729 



crux Br. {Ampliitetras) 716 



cuspidata L. W. Bail. (Amphi- 



tetras) 700 



ciispidatum Jan. (Tnceratium) 706 



debile Grxin. {Eiijiotoqramma) 737 

 debilis (Gran.) V. H. (Anaulus) 737 

 decipiens Grun. (Biddulphia) . . 716 



dubiumUv. {Ti'icerntiinn) 707 



dubia (Br.) Cleve (Biddulphia) 707 



Edwardsii Febiger (Biddul- 

 phia) 701 



Edwardsii (Feb.) De Toni 



( Odontella) 701 



Elirenbergii Grun. (Tricera- 



tium) 730 



elegans (Grev.) (Bidriulphia) . . 717 

 elegaiis Grev. (Ampliiletras). . . 717 

 elegans (Grev.) Grun. {Tricer- 



atiiim) 717 



elegantula Grev. {Biddulphia). 695 

 ellipticus (Ehr.)Grun. (Tetracy- 



clus) 730 



elongata Menengh. {Biddul- 

 phia) 694 



elo ng a turn Grnn. {Triceratitcm) 709 



enervis Ehr. {Isth?nia) 689 



etiervis (Ehr.) Cleve {Tsthmiel- 



la) 689 



Eueampia Ehr 743 



fasciata Wigand {Biddulphia) 694 

 Favus (Ehr.) V. H. (Biddul- 

 phia) 706 



Favus Ehr. {Triceratium) 706 



fimhriatuni Wal 1. ( Triceratium) 706 



Fisc7ieri A. a. {Triceratium).. 723 



formosum Br. {Triceratium). . 713 

 Frauenfeldii Grun. {Eunoto- 



gramma) 737 



Frauenfeldii Grnn. [Euodia).. 737 



gibbosum B. and H. {Tricera- 

 tium) 709 



gig us Ehr. {Biddulphia') 728 



gracilis Ehr. {Benticella) 699 



grande Br. {Triceratium) 706 



grandis (Br.) Biddulphia 706 



granulata Roper (Biddulphia).. 702 



Graya Grove and Brun 742 



Grundleri A. S. {Triceratium) 730 



PAGE 



Harrisonianum Norm, and 



Grev. ( Triceratium) 730 



hebetata (Grun.) (Biddulphia). 732 

 Heilpriniana (K. and S.) (Bid- 

 dulphia) • . • 715 



Ileilprinianum K. and S. {2'rv- 



ceratium) 715 



Hemiaulus Ehr 738 



hemitropus Bail. {Zygoceros) . . 705 

 liemitropa L. W. Bail. {Biddul- 

 phia) 705 



heteroporum Grun. {Tricerati- 



tnn) 723 



heteropora (Grun.) (Biddul- 

 phia) 723 



Jieterostictum A. S. {Tricera- 

 tium) 731 



Hungaricus Pant. {Cerataulus) 712 



Hiittonia Gr. & St 737 



Hydrosera Wall '•34 



impar A. S. ( Triceratium) 723 



indcntatum K. and S. {Tricera- 

 tium) 727 



inelegans (Grev.) (Biddulphia) 725 

 inelegans Grev. {Triceratium) . 725 

 intermedia Grun. (Terpsinoe). . 783 

 interpunctata (Grun.) (Biddul- 

 phia) 723 



iiiterpunctatum Grun. (Tricer- 

 atium) 723 



interrupta Boyer (Biddulphia) . 702 



interstiale Ag. {Diatomco) 694 



interruptum Bail.? {Tricerati- 

 um) 728 



irregulare hebetatum Grun. 



(Triceratium) 722 



Isthmia Ag 688 



Johnsoni Ealfs {Triceratium). . 718 

 Johnsonianus var. A. S. {Cera- 

 taulus) 711 



Jucatense Grun. {Triceratium) 725 



Kainii (Schultze) (Biddulphia) 718 

 Kainii Schultze ( Triceratium) . 718 

 Keeleyi Boyer (Biddulphia) . . . 708 

 Kittonianum Grev. {Tricera- 



tiim) 739 



Kittonii A. S. {Lampriscus) . . . 709 

 Kittonii Grun. (Hemiaulus) . . . 740 



ImveGvnn. {Eunotogramma) . . 737 



Ifevis Ehr. (Biddulphia) 713 



IcEvis (Ehr.) Ralls {Ceratau- 

 lus) 712 



Icevis Ehr. {Denticella) 712 




746 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1900. 



lEevis (Grun.) V. H. (Aiiaulus) 737 

 latecavatus Anaulus (Terp- 



sinoe) 733 



liberum Ag. {Diatoma) 694 



ligulatum Grev. {Triceratium). 739 

 Lindigiana Grun. and Eul. 



ihthmia) 689 



Lithodesmium 743 



longicruris Grev. (Biddulpliia) . 6!)8 



longispina Grun. (Biddulpliia). 699 

 lonfjispina (Grun.) De Toni 



( Odontotropis) 699 



luruita Ehr. (Biddulpliia ?).... 730 



magna Bail. L. "W. (Terpsinoe) 732 

 margaritaceum B. and H. (Zy- 



goceros) 699 



viurgaritifera Shadb. (Denti- 



ce'lla) ■ 695 



Marylandicum Br. {Tricerati- 



ura) 731 



Mediterraneus Grun. (Anaulus) 736 

 megastomumBi. (Iriceratium) 706 

 raembranaceum Br. (Tricera- 



tium) 704 



minima B. and H. (Istlimia).. . 689 

 minima (B. and H.) De Toni 



(Isthmiella) 689 



minima Bail. {Terpsinoe) 73-2 



minuta Grev. (Aniphitetras) ... 716 

 Mobiliensis (Bail.) Grun. (Bid- 

 dulpliia) 698 



Mobiliensis (Bail.) Grun. (Den- 



ticella) 698 



Mobiliensis (Bail.) Kalfs (Zygo- 



ceros) .'.... 698 



Mobiliensis Bail. {{Dcnticclla ?) 



Zygoceros) 698 



MonicteGrun. (Pleniiauliis). . . . 741 

 Montereyi Br. {Triccratium). . 715 

 multicornis Grun. (Biddulpliia) 697 

 multifrons Brun. {Triceratium) 718 

 viuricatum Br. {Triceratium) . 706 

 Musica Elir. (Terpsinoe) 732 



nervosa Kiitz. (Istbniia) 688 



Novic-Cicsarea; Boyer (Terp- 

 sinoe) 1^734 



obliquata (Sniitb) (Isibmia). . . 689 

 obliquata (Lyng) Ag. {Ist/i- 



mia) ' 688, 689 



obliquata Smith ( Conferva) . . . 689 

 obliqnatum Lyng {Diatoma)68S, 689 

 obliqiium Grun. (Triceratium). 727 

 ohscuriiiii Grev. (I'riccratiunt). 721 



obtusa (Kiitz.) Ralfs (Biddul- 



phia) 700 



obtusa Kiitz. ( Odontella) 700 



obtusa (Kiitz.) Grun. (Biddul- 



phia) 712 



oblusum Ehr. ( Triceratium) 720, 726 

 obtusum Br. (IViceratium) .... 724 

 occidentalis Bail. (Zygoceros).. 698 

 orbiculata (Shadb.) (Biddul- 



phia) 709 



orbiculatum Shadb. (Tricera- 

 tium) 709 



orientale B. and H. (Tricera- 

 tium) 706 



ornaia Shadb. (Amphitetras). . 717 

 ovalis (A. S.) (Biddulphia) .... 712 

 ovalis A. S. (Cerataulus) 712 



pallidum Grev. (Triceratium). 718 

 parallela Hhr. (Amphitetras).. 729 

 paralhlum (Ehr.) Grev. (Tri- 

 ceratium) 729 



liarallelum (Grev.) De Toni 



(Nothoceratium ?) 730 



Parma Bail. ( Triceratium) .... 728 

 parvula (Jan. and Eab.) (Bid- 

 dulphia) 725 



j)arcula Jan. and Rab. (Amphi- 

 tetras) 725 



Peniacrinus Ehr. (Amphipen- 



tas) 717 



Pentacrinus (Ehr.) (Biddul- 

 phia) 717 



Pentacrinus (Ehr.) Wall. (Tri- 



ceratimn) 717 



Peruviana Grun. (Biddulphia). 708 

 perpnsilia Bail.? (Biddulphia). 728 

 petasi form is Pant. (Ploiaria). . . 742 

 pihatu)7i Gran. (Triceratium). 731 

 Pileolus Ehr. (I'riceratiurn) . . . 727 



Pileus Ehr. (Triceratium) 727 



Ploiaria Pant 741 



polvcistinorum Ehr. (Hemiau- 



lus) 740 



p>olymera Ehr. (Denticella). . . . 695 

 poly me ra Kiitz. (Odontella) .. . 695 

 polymorpha '^lont. (Isthmia). . 712 

 polymorpha Kiitz. (Odontilla) 712 

 polymorphns Virginicus Grun. 



(Hemiaulus) 740 



ponderosum Edwards (Tricer- 

 atium 706 



Porpeia Bail 731 



pulchella Gray (Biddulphia). . 694 

 punctata (Br.") V. H. (Biddul- 

 phia) 722 



punctatum Br. (Triceratium). . 724 




1900.] 



NATUEAI. SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



747 



'p'lnctatum^aW. {Triceratiurn) 722 

 piistulata Bruu. (Biddulphia) . . 697 



quadrnngnlare Grev. (Tricer- 



atium) 715 



quadrata Grev. (Porpeia) 732 



quadriceps Bail. (Porpeia) 731 



quadricoruis (Grun.) (Biddul- 

 phia) 713 



quadricornis Grun. (Zygoceros) 713 

 quadrinotatum A. S. {Tricer- 



atium) 717 



quinquelocularis Kiitz. {Bid- 

 dulphia) 694 



radiatas (Ehr.) Jan. and Rab. 



(Auliscus) 705 



Tadiatus (Wm. Sm. ) Roper 



(Biddulphia) 705 



radiatus Wni. Sm. (Eupodis- 



cus) 705 



radiatus Jan. {Auliscus) 705 



radiatus Bail. {Zygoceros) .... 713 

 receptum A. S {Triceratium) . . 731 

 Reichardtii Grun. (Huttonia) . . 738 

 reticulata Roper (Biddulphia) . 708 

 reticulata (Roper) De Toni 



{Odontella?) 708 



Reticulum (Ehr.) (Biddulphia) 724 

 Reticulum 'khr. {Triceratiuut) . 724 

 Rhombus (Ehr.) Wm. Sm. (Bid- 

 dulphia) 704 



Rhombus Ehv. {Denticella) . . . . 704 

 Rhombus Ehr. {Zygoceros) .... 704 

 Rhombus (Ehr.) Ralfs (Tetra- 



cyclus) 730 



Robertsiana (Grev.) (Biddul- 

 phia) 707 



Robertsianum, Grev. {Tricer- 



atium) 707 



robustum Grev. {Triceratium) . 723 

 Roperiana Grev. (Biddulphia). 700 

 Roperiana (Grev.) De Toni 

 {Odontella) 700 



scitulum Br. ( Triceratium) .... 706 



sculpta (Shadb.) V. H. {Biddul- 

 phia) 724 



sculptum ^hdAh. {Triceratium) 724 



secernendum A. S {Tricera- 

 tium) 723 



semicirculare Br. {Tricera- 

 tium) 726 



semicircularis (Br.) (Biddul- 

 phia) 726 



seticulosa Gruu. (Biddulphia).. 703 



seticulosa (Grun.) De Toni 



{Denticella) 703 



setigerum Bail. {Triceratium) . 703 

 septemlocularis Kiitz. {Biddul- 

 phia) 694 



serratum Wall. {Triceratium). 703 

 Shadboltianuvi Grev. {Tricera- 

 tium) 709 



Shadboltii'L. W. Bail. {Tricera- 

 tium) 731 



Shulzei Beyer (Biddulphia) . . . 726 

 simplex Shad. {Denticella) . . . . 695 

 Smithii (Ralls) V. H. (Biddul- 

 phia) 705 



Smiihii Ealfs ( Cerataulus) .... 705 

 Soleufceros (Ehr.) (Hemiaulus) 739 

 spinosa (Bail.) (Biddulphia) . . . 703 

 spinosum Bail. {Triccraiiu7/i) . 703 

 Strabo A. S. ( Triceratium) .... 706 

 striolatum Wm. Sm. {Tricera- 

 tium) 731 



striolatum Y.\xv. {Triceratium). 704 

 subcequa Kiitz. {Biddulphia). . 712 

 subsequa (Kiitz.) Ralfs (Biddul- 

 phia) 700 



subfvqua Kiitz. ( Odontella) .... 700 

 subcornutum Grun. {Iricera- 



tium) 727 



suborbicularis Grun. (Biddul- 

 phia) 705 



suborbicularis (Grun.) De Toni 



{Denticella) 705 



subrotundata (A. S.) (Biddul- 

 phia) 720 



subrotundatum A. S. {Tricera- 

 tium) 720 



Tabellarium(Br.) (Biddulphia) 718 

 Tabillarium Br. {Triceratium) 718 

 tenuis L. W. Bail. {Biddulphia) 693 



Terpsiuoe Ehr 732 



tessellata (Grev.) (Biddulphia) 723 

 tessellatumGiev. {Triceratium) 723 

 Testudo (Brun.) (Biddulphia). 726 



Tcstudo Brun. {Tabulina) 726 



tetragramma Bail. {Terpsinoe) 732 

 thermalis (Menengh.) Ralfs 



{Cerataulus) 712 



thermalis Menengh. {Melosira^ 712 

 thermalis Menengh. {Plealro- 



sira) 712 



Thumii (A. S.) (Biddulphia). . 712 

 Thumii A. S. {Cerataulus) .... 712 

 tra n sversa Wigand ( Bidd u Iph ia ) 694 

 tridactylum Br. {Triceratium) 703 

 tridentata Ehr. {Biddulphia). . 695 

 tridentata Ehr. {Denticella)... 695 




748 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1900. 



PAGE 



tridens Ehr. (Biddulphia) 695 



tridens Ehr. (Deniicella) 695 



triloeularis Kiitz. (Biddulphia) 694 

 trinacria L. W. Bail. {Biddul- 

 phia) 698 



trinacria Bail. (JDenticella) 698 



tripartitum Grun. (I'ricera- 



tium) 728 



triquetia Wall. (Hydrosera). . . 734 

 trisulca (Bail.) (Biddulphia).. 719 

 trisulcurii ]i3i\\. {Tricerutiuin) . 719 

 tumida (Ehr.) Koper (Biddul- 

 phia) 702 



tumida Ehr.? (Denticella) 702 



tumidum costulatum Grnn. 



( Triceratiura) 720 



Tuomeyi (Bail.) Roper (Bid- 



dulj)hia) 695 



Tuoineyi Bail. (Zygoceros). . . . 695 



turyida Ehr. (iJenticella) 711 



turyida Kiitz. ( Odontella) 711 



tuvfjida (Ehr.) Ralfs (Biddul- 

 phia) 711 



tuigida (Ehr.) Win. Sm. (Bid- 

 dulphia) 711 



turrjida (\Vm. Sm.)? De Toni 

 (OdoiUella) 711 



PAGE 



turgidus Ehr. (Cerataulus). . . . 711 



u?icinatum A. S. (Triceraiium) 728 

 unifasciata Wigand {Biddul- 

 phia) 694 



undulatum Ehr. (Triceratiura) 731 



validum Grun. (Triceratium) . 719 



varibiWQr. (Triceratium) 719 



Tenulosum Grex. (IViceratium) 718 



verrucosa Beyer (Biddulphia).. 710 



vesiculosa (Ag.) (Biddulphia) . . 716 



vesiculosa Ag. (IstJtmia) 716 



vesiculosum Ag. (Diatoma) . . . . 716 



Virginica Gian. (Eucanqna).. 743 



Wilkesii B. and H. (Amphite- 

 tras) 714 



M'ilkesii B. and H. (lYicera- 

 ti'im) 714 



Wool/naiiii K. and S. (Biddul- 

 phia) 730 



Zodiacus Ehr. (Eucarupia) 743 



zoiuitulatum Grev. (Tricera- 

 tium) 725 




1900.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 74J> 



December 4. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 

 Eighteen persons present. 



December 11. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 



Fourteen persons present. 



A paper entitled " A New Weasel from Western Pennsyl- 

 vania," by Samuel N. Rhoads, was presented for publication. 



December .18. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Twenty-nine persons present. 



A paper entitled " Crustacea from the Cretaceous Formation of 

 New Jersey," by Henry A. Pilsbry, was presented for publication. 



December 27. 



Christmas Day faUing on Tuesday, under the revised code of 

 By-Laws the meeting was held on the succeeding Thursday. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D. , in the Chair. 



Twenty- six persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication: 

 " Crustacea and Pycnogonida Collected duriug the Princeton 

 Arctic Expedition of 1899," by Dr. A. E. Ortmann. 




750 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



" Report on the Echinoderms Collected off the West Coast of 

 Greenland by the Princeton Arctic Expedition of 1899," by Wal- 

 ter M. Rankin. 



"A List of Fishes from St. Croix, West Indies," by Henry 

 W. Fowler. 



The following were ordered to be published: 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



A NEW WEASEL FROM WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA. 

 BY SAMUEL N, RHOADS. 



One of the most unlooked-for results of recent systematic field 

 study of smaller mammals inhabiting the settled and populous 

 areas of th-^^ Eastern States is the discovery of a small weasel in the 

 regions contiguous to the city of Pittsburgh. Fortunately three 

 specimens have been secured, each representing a phase of pelage 

 characteristic of the seasonal moult. This weasel is allied to the 

 minute Arctic and Canadian Putorius rixosus Bangs/ being some- 

 what larger than rixosus and less than half the size of P. cieognani, 

 the smallest species hitherto recorded from the Middle States. It 

 may be diagnosed as follows: 



Putorius allegheniensis sp. nov. Allegheny Weasel. 



Type, ^^0. 6195, adult, Museum of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia. Captured by Robert Hawkins, near 

 Beallsville, Washington county. Pa., about the year *1885 or 

 1886. 



Description of the Type. — In size and color it resembles Putorius 

 rixosus Bangs from the Saskatchewan, B. A., but larger, darker 

 and more thinly furred. Skull broader and flatter, with inter- 

 orbital space high, tumid and constricted posteriorly. No supra- 

 orbital ridges. 



Color (summer pelage). — Upper parts walnut-brown, abruptly 

 separated from the pure white of under parts, the line of demar- 

 cation running from nasal pad along border of upper lip, through 

 base of whiskers, just below base of ear, along median lateral line 

 of neck to anterior base of shoulder; thence down anterior pro- 

 file of foreleg to elbow, rising thence along posterior profile of leg 

 to and along median lateral body line to flank, thence to heel and 

 posterior thigh as on foreleg, rising and encircling anal region to 

 lower base of tail. Tail colored like back with some scattei*ing 

 white hairs at tip (extreme tip apparently missing). Forefeet and 



1 Proc. Biol. Soc. WasJm., 1896, p. 21. 




752 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



lower foreleg white; hind feet while only on toes atid inside bor- 

 der. Whiskers mixed brown and white. The color areas occu- 

 pied respectively by brown and white are almost exactly divided 

 in equal parts. Compared with the type of rixosus and another 

 summer specimen from ]Moose Factory, Hudson Bay, the type of 

 alleg heniensis is much darker and duller hued. 



MeasuremenU (of type, a well-mounted specimen, but undoubtedly 

 stretched). — Total length, 199;' tail without hairs of tip, 19; 

 hind foot, 20. Skull: Basilar length, 29; zygomatic width, 

 15.3; mastoid width, 14; interorbital constriction, 6; greatest 

 mandibular length, 16.5. 



Descrijytion of two other specimens. — Xo. 4279, Coll. of S. X. 

 Rhoads; young adult (sex undetermined), cotype, in late winter 

 early pelage, collected by aforesaid R. Hawkins, near Beallsville, 

 Washington county, Pa., about the year 1885 or 1886. 



Color. — Everywhere pure white except on head, where brown 

 summer fur is appearing, also about 15 dark brown and blackish 

 hairs at tip of tail. 



Measurements (specimen is a mummy, preserved without skin- 

 ning, having been eviscerated, poisoned and wired to a stand erect 

 on its haunches. Ou this account its tail and body measurements 

 are of real value after allowing an increase of five per cent, for 

 shrinkage of intervertebral tissue). — Total length, 145; tail ver- 

 tebrie, 22; hind foot, 20. Skull: Basilar length, 28; zygomatic 

 width, 14.7; greatest mandibular length, 15.8. 



No. ^\' , adult female. Coll. of the Carnegie Museum, collected by 

 William Seager, near Leetsdale, Allegheny county, Pa., April 25, 

 1898. This interesting specimen is in the shape of a cabinet skin, 

 with anterior half of skull attached to lips and without sex mark or 

 measurements on label. 1 have determined its sex by the series of 

 teats, evidently those of a female having nursed young the previous 

 season. The skull and teeth indicate full maturity. The j^elage 

 is changing from winter to summer garb, this change appearing to 

 have but recently begun. 



Color. — White, except an irregular mottled stripe of brown, 

 well defined on head between nose, eyes and ears, narrowing along 

 neck and back with wider areas at shoulders and hips and dis- 

 appearing on liiud rump. Tail white with about 20 brown-black 



' All measurements iu millimeters. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF I HILADELPHIA. 753 



hairs at tip almost concealed by surrounding white hairs. A faint 

 mottling of brown is appearing on all four legs and the upper hind 

 feet. 



Measurements (skin stretched). — Total length, 175; tail, 22; 

 hind foot, 20. 



The two Beallsville specimens were kindly loaned to me October 

 27, 1899, by Mr. Jacob Nease, of Washington, Pa., in response 

 to a circular, widely distributed in the State, requesting informa- 

 tion concerning certain rare mammals. The size of these tiny 

 weasels, so different from anything to be expected from that region, 

 raised the question of their being a genuine Pennsylvania product, 

 and I wrote Mr. Xease for particulars. In answer, Mr. James S. 

 Nease, who conducted the entire correspondence on the subject for 

 his father, Jacob Nease, to whom the specimens belonged, sent 

 me the following letter : 



" Beallsville, Pa., 11-6-1899. 

 "Mr. Jas. S. Nease, 



' ' Washington, Pa. 

 " Dear Sir : — In reply to your letter of 2d inst., I have con- 

 sulted father in regard to the weasels which he sent your father to 

 have stuffed. They were caught under dead-falls set for skunks, 

 and of course were wild as any weasel. Father remembers well of 

 catching them and sending them up, and got one or two he did 

 not send, but has not seen any since then, some ten or fifteen 

 years ago, if memory serves him right. They were caught when 

 the bounty was on hawks and owls.^ Very truly, 



" J. W. Hawkins." 



While there seemed to be no question as to the statements of the 

 gentlemen above mentioned, the publication of them was deferred 

 nearly a year, when I was unexpectedly confronted with the speci- 

 men in the collection of the Carnegie Museum. As it had been 

 taken along the Ohio river, only a few miles below Pittsburgh, by 

 a resident collector regularly employed by the ^Museum, it was 

 accepted as conclusive evidence that these weasels are indigenous 

 and living in those parts. 



^ This bounty act was passed in May, 1885, and repealed about eighteen 

 months later. 




754 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Regarding the affinity of allegheniensis with rixosiis, it mav be 

 stated that the nearest localities from which the latter has been 

 recorded are Moose Factory, Ontario and Pembina, Minnesota, the 

 latter being the specimen mentioned by Prof. Baird under " Pido- 

 r ius pusillm Dekny " in the Pacific R. R. Reports. It will be 

 seen that there is an immense stretch of i^rritory between these 

 places and Pittsburgh, besides the great difference in the faunal 

 position of the localities. That the habitat of these weasels shall 

 prove to be continuous through the Appalachian system from 

 Ontario southward is not impossible, but that specimens from the 

 intermediate country have as yet escaped notice is indeed strange. 

 The facts now known to us as to the differences between rixosv^s 

 and its southern ally in size, cranial proportions and color are 

 sufficient to indicate specific values. It is singular that all the 

 known specimens of rixosus and allegheniensld appear to be 

 females, though in every case the sex has not been absolutely 

 determined. If any of them are males the great difference in size 

 between the sexes, so notorious in all other species, is not apparent 

 among the least weasels. Mr. Baugs, in his monograph of these 

 mammals, gives us a special character of rixosus: " Ta'l not 

 tipped with black * — but I find that his type of that species has 

 several distinctly blackish hairs among the brown ones at the tail 

 tip, so also has the specimen examined from Moose Factory. I am 

 indebted to the Messrs. Nease for consenting to part with the type, 

 on condition that it be preserved in the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, as well as for their cooperation in this in- 

 vestigation, ;Mr. Outran! Bangs generously loaned me the two 

 specimens of rixosus mentioned above, one of them lielonging to 

 the Museum of Comparative Zoology of Cambridge, Mass. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 755 



NOTES ON CHIROPTEEA. 

 BY JAMES A. G. EEHX. 



In the collection of Brazilian mammals made by Mr. H. H. 

 Smith on the Naturalists' Exploring Expedition to southern Brazil 

 (1882-1883), and bequeathed to the Academy by the late Prof. 

 E. D. Cope, are some bats which are of great interest. Several 

 specimens of the same group from difierent sources were included 

 in the bequest, and together they form a number of interesting 

 subjects for close examination, the results of which seem to war- 

 rant publication. 



Eptesicus arge (Cope). 



Vesperus arge Cope, American Naturalist, XXIII, p. 131, February, 

 1889. 



Type No. 4899. Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



Sao Joao, Bra2il. Collected by H, H. Smith. 



The type of this species is in a fair state of preservation, and a 

 comparison with the figures and descriptions of other South Ameri- 

 can forms, like hilarii, dorianus and montanus, has convinced me 

 that it should be considered a very distinct species. The form of 

 the ear and the tragus, besides the extent of the antibranchial 

 membrane, are distinctive. The dental characters I cannot com- 

 pare satisfactorily, as few of the allied species have the teeth fig- 

 ured or well described. 



The placing of this in the genus Eptesicm is in accordance with 

 Lajos.^ 



Measurements : ,,.. 



Forearm, 42.2 



Tibia, 15.5 



Ear, 15 



Width of ear (flattened) 9.5 



Skull: Total length, 17 



Basilar length, 14,6 



Greatest zygomatic breadth, 11.1 



^ Magyarorszag Denevereinek Monographidja {Monograpliia Chiropter- 

 OTum Hungarke), pp. 206-208. 




756 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Measurements : mm. 



Skull : Depth of brain-case, 6 



Depth at first premolar, 3 



Length of palate, 6.9 



Width of palate (including molars), 7 



TJroderma bilobatum Peters. 



Uroderma bilobatum Cope, American Naturalist, XXIII, p. 130, Feb- 

 ruary, 1889. 



Two specimens, Nos. 4883 and 4884. Sao Joao, Brazil. Col- 

 lected by H. H. Smith. The genera Uroderma and Dennanura 

 were separated from Artibeus on the number of molars present. 

 Dobson^ states regarding ihis: " The species of Artibeus have been 

 divided into three subgenera according to the presence or absence 

 of the minute last upper or lower molars ; but a^ I find that the 

 presence of these small last molars, certainly of the last upper 

 molars, is variable even in the same species, it is evident that this 

 character can scarcely be considered of much importance." On 

 examining specimens of planirostris from southern Brazil, I find 

 that in one specimen the last upper molar is present on one side 

 and absent on the other, and in another both last upper molars 

 are missing. While the last upper molars may always be present 

 in young specimens of planirostris, the fact that they are sometimes 

 absent in the adult forces itself upon us. An examination of a 

 large series of bats of these three genera would probably show 

 that the presence or absence of the last molars is of secondary 

 consequence. 



Peters' founded the genus Uroderma on what he supposed was 

 the Phijllostoma personatum of Wagner, but later he concluded 

 the description of that species was too indefinite to be determineti, 

 the description being equally applicable to specimens of either 

 Vampiyrops lincatus or Chiroderma vilhsnm. The name Uroderma 

 bilobatum was applied to the new species,* and accordingly the 

 type of the genus Uroderma is Phyllostoma personatum Peters (nee 

 Wagner) := Uroderma bilobatum Petei"s. The species Phyllostoma 

 planirostre Spix was considered by Peters to be the same as Artib- 

 eus perspicillatus, but Dobson placed j3 /a »jVoi«?nV" and bilobatum 'm 



' Gatal. CJiirop., p. 514. 



'"' Monatsber. K. Akad. Wissensch. Berlin, 1865, p. 588. 



* Jlonatsbcr. K. Akad. Wissensc/i. Berlin, 1866, p. 394. 




1900.] XATLEAL SCIENXES OF PIIILADELrHIA. 757 



the same subgenus solely on the number of molars, while the 

 cranial characters of the latter seem to have never been examined. 



Prof. Cope did not remove the skulls of the two specimens in 

 the collection and the only reference to the skull of this species I 

 can find is that of Thomas/ who simply makes the following com- 

 parison in describing Artibeus rjlaucus : "Skull .... almost as 

 elongated as that of ^4. hilobatus, and sharing with that species in 

 the less abrupt rise of the brain -case above the level of the muzzle; 

 but while in A. hilobatus it is the muzzle that is raised, in A. 

 glaucus it is the brain -case which is depressed, so that there is no 

 really close resemblance between the two." 



A study of specimens of both bilobatum and jjlanirostris shows 

 that the latter should be removed generically from the former, and 

 a comparison with perspicillatus gives no good reason for separating 

 it from Artibeus, the simple presence or absence of liie last upper 

 molar being of too uncertain value. 



A table of the characters of the two genera (disregarding the 

 number of molars entirely) would be as foUows: 



Genus URODERMA Peters. 



Type — Phyllostoma personatum Peters (nee "Wagner) = Uro- 

 derma bilobatum Peters. 



Skull elongate, weasel-like, ths anterior portion little lower than 

 the brain-case, the height (from centime of base of second pre- 

 molar) being decidedly greater than the width of the postorbital 

 constriction. Horseshoe laterally with two rounded lobes. Species 

 medium-sized. 



Genus ARTIBEUS Leach. 



Type — Artibetis jamaicensis Leach = Vespertilio perspicillatus 

 Linnreus. 



Skull thick and massive, the anterior portion depressed, the 

 height being less than the width of the postorbital constriction. 

 Horseshoe without lateral lobes. 



Species large (except A. glaucus Thomas). 



' Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1893, p. 336. 

 49 




758 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



Comparative Cranial Measurements : 



Artibeus Artibeus Uroderma 



perspicil- planiros- bilo- 



latus, tris, batum, 



No. 5705, No. 4875, No. 4883, 



Jamaica. Cbapada. Sao Joao. 



Total length, 28 30 24 



Basilar length, 22.75 24 21 



Greatest zygomatic width, ... 17.1 19 circa 12.6 

 Length of palate (from anterior face 



of incisors), 13.6 16 13 



Breadth of palate and teeth at first 



molar, 12.5 13.25 9.5 



Depth of brain-case, 11 12.1 9.1 



Depth at second premolar, ... 5 7 7 



Width of posturbital constriction, . 7.2 7.5 6.1 



Artibeus eva (Cope). 



Dermannra eva Cope, American Naturalist, XXIII, p. 130, February, 



1889. 



Types— Nos. 5783 and 5784. St. Martins, West Indies. Col- 

 lected by Dr. R. E. Van Rijgersma. A stud}' of the types of this 

 species proves that Prof. Cope gave them a rather superficial 

 'examination when he placed them in the genus Dermannra, his 

 record of the molars present being incorrect. The skull of No. 

 5,783, which I have removed, shows that the sj^ecimen evidently 

 possessed six lower molars, as is generally considered to be the 

 case with Artibeus, one being in position and the alveolus of the 

 other being unabsorbed. 



I can add little to the original description, the only point which 

 seems to have escaped attention being the shallow emargination of 

 the interfemoral membrane, which is of much greater expanse than 

 either perspicil/atiis or jylanirostris. The form of the nose-leaf 

 has induced me to place this species iu Artibeus, the species of 

 which all seem to possess a nose-leaf which is little higher than 

 broad, while that of Dermannra is twice as high as broad. 



Measurements : 

 Specimen No. 5784: 



Total length, 73.25 mm. 



Forearm, 62 " 



Tibia, 24 



Foot, 14 



Ear, 19 



Width of ear (^flattened), 12 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 759 



Measurements : 



Skull of specimen No. 5783 : 



Total length, 27.6 mm. 



Basilar length, 22.5 



Greatest zygomatic breadth, 17 



Depth of brain-case, 10.4 



Depth of second premolar, 6 



Length of palate, 13.5 



Breadth of palate (including molars), 12.5 



Sphieronycteris toxophyllum Peters. Sitzungberichte der K. P. Akadeinie der 

 Wisseuschal'ten, Berlin, 1882, pp. 9SS-990, taf. XVI. 



The discovery of an alcoholic specimen of this very remarkable 

 bat among the material received from Prof. Cope is of interest. 

 It was collected at Pebas, Peru, by John Hauxwell, and was not 

 identified by Cope. The specimen agrees perfectly with Peters' 

 description and plate, and forms a link in the chain of distribu- 

 tion. The type came from an unknown locality, and the only 

 other specimen of which we have information is one collected at 

 Merida, Venezuela.® 



^Thomas, Ann. and Mag. JS'at. Hist. (7), II, p. 318. 




760 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900, 



The following annual reports were read and referred to the 

 Publication Committee : 



REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY 



The average attendance at the meetings during the past year 

 amounts to 21. A quorum was lacking three times during the 

 heat of midsummer, while the largest number present at any ses- 

 sion was 112. Verbal communications have been made at nearly 

 all the meetings, but comparatively few have been reported for 

 publication, many of those dealing with original observations 

 being embodied in the formal papers presented by title and printed 

 as part of the Proceedings when reported on favorably by the 

 Publication Committee. 



Among those w^ho have thus added to the interest of the meet- 

 ings are Messrs. George and William S. Vaux, Jr., Johnson, 

 Woolraan, Pilsbry, Stone, Calvert, Sharp, Saunders, Chapman, 

 T. H. Montgomery, Rand, Willcox, Goldsmith, Holt, Skinner, 

 Harshberger, TJ. C. Smith, Keeley, C. jNIorris, Balch, Dixon, A. 

 E. Brown, Carter, Hamilton, Holraan, J. C. Morris, McElwee, 

 Meyer, Lyman, A. ]\Iiller, Seiss, Palmer and Mesdames Bladen 

 and Burgin. 



One hundred and eleven pages of the Proceedings for 1809, with 

 five plates, and five hundred and ninely-six pages of the volume 

 for 1900, with twenty-three plates, have been issued, together with 

 the third number of the eleventh volume of the quarto Journal, the 

 latter consisting of one hundred and thirty pages and two plates. 



For all but the plates and twenty-three pages of this part of the 

 Journal we are indebted to the liberality of ^Ir. Clarence B. ^loore, 

 whose coutributi(m3 in continuation of his papers on Southern 

 mound burials are profusely ilUistrated by figures in the text. 



Fifty papers have been presented for publication, as follows: 

 Henry A. Pilsbry 14, Witmer Stone 2, J. Percy Moore 2, Thomas 

 IMeehan 2, Henry W. Fowler 2, R. W. Shufeldt 2, H. A. Pils- 

 bry and E. G. Vauatta 1, Edward G. Vanatta 1, William and 

 George Vaux, Jr., 1, Charles T. Simpson 1, C. F. Saunders 1, 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 761 



Vernon L. Kellogg and Shiukai I. Kuwana 1, William Healy 

 Dall 1, T. D. A. Cockerell 1, T. D. A. Cockerell and Wilmatte 

 Porter 1, Charles S. Boyer 1, Annie Bell Sargent 1, Charles Mor- 

 ris 1, Nathan Banks 1, T. Wayland Vaughan 1, Frank C. 

 Baker 1, Charlotta J. Maury 1, Alexander McElwee 1, Henry 

 C. Chapman 1, Ai-thur M. Edwards 1, Ida A. Keller 1, T. 

 Chalkley Palmer and Frank J. Keeley 1, Clarence B. Moore 1, 

 H. von Ihering 1, John W. Harshberger 1, Arthur Erwin Brown 

 1, Charles E. Hall 1. Forty-one of these have been accepted for 

 publication in the Proceedinr/s and have been issued or are now in 

 press; two constitute the last number of the Journal, two were 

 reported on adversely, two were withdrawn by the authors, one 

 was transferred to another journal at the request of the author, 

 one is held for publication next year, and^one has not yet been 

 reported on. 



The Entomological Section (American Entomological Society) 

 has published three hundred and thirty-six pages and seven plates 

 of the Transactions and three hundred and thirty-nine pages and 

 seventeen plates of the Entomological Xews. 



The Conchological Section has issued five numbers of the Manual 

 of Conchology, embracing three hundred and ihirty-five pages and 

 ninety plates. 



The Academy's publications, therefore, since the last annual 

 report have consisted of 1847 pages and 144 plates, a very impor- 

 tant increase over the 1416 pages and 81 plates of the preceding 

 year. 



Perhaps the most important advance in the work of the publica- 

 tion office has been the distribution of the Proceedings to all mem- 

 bers in good standing. It had long been the desire of the Council 

 to thus bring those interested in the society into closer relation 

 with its current work, but the annual income had not been such 

 as to warrant the increased expenditure. The distribution has been 

 made possible hy the settlement of the estate of the late Dr. Robert 

 H. Lamborn, resulting in an important addition to the Academy's 

 resources. It is believed that such extended disti-ibution of the 

 Academy's published work is in harmony with the desire of our 

 generous benefactor to provide for the encouragement of scientific 

 research and to enlarge the sphere of the society's usefulness. 



The statistics of distribution are now as follows : 




762 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900; 



Proceedings, delivered to members, 547 



" exchanged for other publications 5tjl 



" sent to subscribers, 48 



1,156 



Journal, exchanges, 69 



" subscriptions, 34 



103 



To provide for the additional distribution of the Proceedings, the- 

 prin'ted edition has been increased from 1,000 to l,oOO copies. 



The plates damaged by the flood of 1898 have been reprinted as 

 far as was necessary to provide for a supply of back volumes ta 

 exchanges and purchasers. 



Eighteen members and two correspondents have been elected. 

 Resignations have been accepted from Gavin AV. Hart, "William 

 L. VVhitaker, George W. Warren, John B. Deaver and Mrs. 

 Susannah ]M. Gaskill. The deaths of fourteen members haVe 

 been announced, and seven have been dropped from the roll for 

 uon-paymeut of annual contributions. 



The Haydeu Memorial Geological Trust luis been modified by 

 agreement with the founder so as to provide for the award every 

 third year of a gold medal instead of a bronze medal and the 

 interest arising from the fund annually. 



Vacancies in the Publication Committee and in the Council, 

 caused by the death of Charles E. Smith, have been filled by the 

 election of Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., to the former, and of ]Mr. 

 Charles Roberts to the latter. The death of ]Mr. Smith was 

 severely felt by his associates ou the Publication Committee, his 

 work as an accurate proof-reader having been recognized as of im- 

 portance during several years of devoted service. 



The resignation of the Rev. Henry C. McCook, D. D. , from the 

 office of Vice-President was tendered before the annual nomina- 

 tions were made, and was accepted with regret. By direction of 

 the Academy, a minute of appreciation of his services to science 

 and to the society has been placed u]ion the records. 



The use of the lecture hall of the Academy Avas granted the 

 Pennsylvania Audubon Society for its meeting of January 6. Tlie 

 meetings of the Pennsvlvania Mvcolocrical Societv, Students" Min- 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 763 



eralogical Club, Studeuts' Entomological Association, Delaware 

 Valley Ornithological Club, the Philadelphia Botanical Club and 

 Philadelphia Moss Chapter have also been held on the premises. 



Edw. J. Nolan, 



Becor cling Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 



During the past year there have been received from seventy-four 

 societies, museums, libraries, etc., one hundred and thirty-two 

 acknosvledgements of the receipt of the publications of the Acad- 

 emy, and from thirty-one societies, libraries, etc., foi"ty-one notices 

 of transmission of their publications. 



Eleven applications for exchange of publications and for sup- 

 plies of deficiencies, together with seven circulars and invitations 

 to the Academy to participate in congresses, etc., and four an. 

 nouncements of the deaths of scientific men, have also been re- 

 ceived and when necessary answered. ' 



Two correspondents have been elected during the year and the 

 deaths of seven have been recorded. 



Seven hundred and fifty-five acknowledgments of gifts to the 

 library and eleven diplomas to correspondents have been for- 

 warded. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Benj. Sharp, 



Corresponding Secreta ry. 




764 



PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1900. 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN. 



The accessions to the library catalogued and placed since the 

 last annual report amount to 5,441, an increase of 567 over the 

 growth of last year. There were 4,427 pamphlets and parts of 

 periodicals, 752 volumes, 261 maps and one photograph. 



They have been received from the following sources : 



Societies 2,183 I Dr. E. J. Nolan, ... 6 



I. V. Williamson Fund 1,263 Dr. H. A. Pilsbrv, . . 6 



Editors, 811 ! Dr. W. ^V. Keen, Jr., . 5 



U. S. Department of Inte- j Bemice Pauahi Bishop 



rior, 278 ^Museum, 5 



^1 o 



169 

 154 



Authors, .... 



General Fund, ... 



U.S. Department of Agri 



culture, 134 



Estate of Charles E. Smith, 79 



Meigs Fund, .... 



Wilson Fund .... 



Thomas INIeehau, . 



Dr. H. C. Chapman, . . 



U.S. Department of State, 



Ministere des Travaux 

 Publics, France, 



Comitd Gc'ologique Russe, 



Victoria Department of 

 Mines, 



Pennsylvania State Li- 

 brary, 



Geological and Nalural 

 History Survey of Min- 

 nesota, 



Wisconsin Geological Sur- 

 vey, 



Geological Survey of In- 

 dia, . . . ... 



Department of Agricul- 

 ture, Cape of Good 

 Hope, 



59 

 44 

 41 

 19 

 16 



14 

 12 



10 



11 



11 



11 



California State Mining 

 Bureau, 



Commission Geologique de 

 Finlande, .... 



British Museum, . 



Library of Congress, . 



Geological Survey of Lou- 

 isiana, 



Geological Survey of Ala- 

 bama, 



Indian Museum, . 



Congreso Cientifico Latino- 

 Americano, .... 



Geological and Natural 

 History Survey of 

 Canada, 



Conchologcal Section of 

 the Academy, 



Department of Mines, 

 New South Wales, . 



Philadelphia Commercial 

 Museums, .... 



Geological Survey of Now 

 Jei'sey, 



Zoological Museum. Co- 

 penhagen 



Kow Gardens 




I 



1900.] 



XATLKAL SCIEXCES OF PaiLADKLPirrv. 



Department of Miues, 

 Nova Scotia, 



Comision Geologica de 

 Mexico, 



U. S. War Departmeut, . 



U. S. Commissiou of Fi?h 

 and Fisheries, 



Joseph Will cox, 



U. S. Treasury Depart- 

 ment, 



U. S. Coast and Geodetic 

 Survey, 



Walter Faxon, 



William J. Fox, . . . 



Maryland Geological Sur- 

 vey, 



Maryland State Weather 

 Service, 



Government of India, 



Massachusetts Commis- 

 sioners of Inland Fish- 

 eries and Game, 



Miss L. H. Baird, 



Henry A. Ward, . . . 



Illinois State Bureau of 

 Labor Statistics, 



Council of the Fridtjof 

 Nansen Fund for the 

 Advancement of Sci- 

 ence, 



Institut Solaire Interna 

 tionale, jNIontevideo, 



U. S. Civil Service Com 

 mission, . . . 



Norwegian Government 



Department of Geologv 

 and Natural History 

 Indiana, .... 



N. C. Geological Survey 



W. E. Meelian, . . 



Heirs of H. Schaaf hausen 



Dr. Fritz Sauo, 



University^ Geological Sur 

 vey, Kansas, 



William Beer, ... 



Geological Survey o 

 ^Missouri, .... 



Adams Memorial Com 

 mittee, .... 



Iowa Geological Survey, 



Estate of Robert H. Lam 

 born, 



765 



They were distributed to the several departments of the library 

 as follows: 



Journals, .... 4,085 



Geology, 485 



Botany, 261 



General Natural History, 133 



Agriculture, . . . . 100 



Entomology, .... 52 



Conchology, .... 38 



Anatomy and Physiology, 37 



Voyages and Travels, . 34 



Miscellaneous, .... 31 



^Anthropology, .... 29 



Ornithology, .... 23 



Physical Science, 



Mineralogy, 



^Mammalogy, 



Medicine, 



Helminthology, 



Ichthyology, 



Bibliography, . 



Encyclopaedias, 



Herpetology, 



Chemistry, . 



Geography, . . 



21 



21 



20 



18 



11 



11 



9 



6 



6 



5 



5 




766 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



In addition to the above, 104 duplicate volumes and 112 pam- 

 phlets were received from the estate of the late Charles E. Smith. 



Eight hundred and eighty-six volumes have been bound during 

 the year, and three hundred and thirty-five are in the hands of 

 the binders. This gratifying increase in this department of library 

 work over the accomplishment of recent years is the result of the 

 much lai'ger appropriation than usual which the Council was able 

 to grant. It is estimated that nearly five thousand volumes, 

 mainly in the department of journals and periodicals, are still 

 unbound, although many of the most pressingly urgent needs 

 have been provided for during the past year. 



A desirable addition to the space devoted to the arrangement of 

 journals and periodicals has been secured by erecting cases on the 

 entresol floor of the former staircase to the Museum, rendered 

 available by the present exclusive use of the door on Nineteenth 

 street as the public entrance to that department of the Academy. 

 This section of the library is so rapidly growing that the need of 

 additional accommodation is still urgently needed for the con- 

 venient use of the books. 



About twenty books and pamphlets not related to the objects of 

 the Academy were transferred to the Free Library in addition to 

 those noted in my last report. 



The Warner Library, consisting, for the most part, of books on 

 mathematics, received in 1802, has been rearranged, works on 

 general science being placed in their appropriate departments of 

 the main library and the catalogue incorporated with that of the 

 Academy. Nearly one thousand pamphlets belonging to the col- 

 lection are now in the hands of the binders. 



In association with the work of preparing volumes for binding 

 constant effort is made to secure a supply of deficiencies as gifts 

 or from booksellers' catalogues. Much remains to be done in this 

 direction. 



It gives me much pleasure to assure you of the efiiciency of my 

 assistant, William J. Fox, 



Edw. J Nolan, 



Librarian. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIEyCE3 OF PHILADELPHIA. 767 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



The collections under eare of the Curators have been kept in 

 the excellent state of preservation reported last year, -while 

 much has been accomplished toward their better display, arrange- 

 ment and cataloguing. During the year two large plate-glass 

 cases have been provided, one for lai-ge mammals and one for the 

 new ornithological floor which it is proposed to open during the 

 coming year. There have also been erected two handsome wall 

 cases in the Archaeological depa/traent for the reception of the 

 Lamborn Collection of Mexican Antiquities, and two others for 

 a series of human crania. 



For storage purposes a room in the basement has been fitted up 

 with fifty -two closet cases in which geological study collections will 

 be arranged. The specimens will thus be more accessible, and the 

 cases on the upper floor now occupied by them will be available 

 for more perishable material. Ten moth-proof tin cases for the 

 accommodation of the rapidly increasing study collection of birds 

 were also secured. 



In addition to these improvements, the entire library hall has 

 been painted during the summer. Necessary improvements have 

 also been made to the roofs and the heating plant, and sunshades 

 provided for several windows as a protection to the specimens. 



The principal rearrangement in the Museum during the year 

 has been on the floor devoted to mammals. The new case provided 

 for the large mounted specimens rendered the old cases available for 

 osteological material, much of which had previously been without 

 protection. This not only insures the better preservation of the 

 specimens, but facilitates their systematic arrangement. With the 

 same object aU the skeletons of Cetacea have now been placed 

 together at the east end of the floor protected by a railing, and 

 some of them articulated and remounted. The entire series of 

 mammals exhibited in the new cases has also been relabeled with 

 buff cardboard, which will not discolor on exposure to the light, 

 while nearly all of the study series of mammalian skeletons has 

 been labeled with permanent tags. 



In addition to the above work, the assistant to the Curators 

 has devoted a large part of the year to the arrangement of the 

 alcoholic Batrachians and Reptiles. The entire series of some 




768 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



thirty-five hundred jars has been cleansed and systematically 

 arranged in accordance with the British Museum Catalogue, and 

 many specimens misplaced when the collection was transferred 

 have now been located and properly classified. The entire Cope 

 collection of Ophidia and Tailed Batrachia, excepting some of the 

 largest specimens, was catalogued ; many unnamed specimens were 

 identified and systematically arranged. The shelves have been 

 numbered and labeled, so that any specimen can be readily found. 



The alcoholic mammals were at the same time systematically 

 examined and relabeled by Mr. J, A. G. Rehn, Jessup Fund 

 student, and the additions from the collections of the late 

 Prof. Edward D. Cope and Dr. Harrison Allen properly arranged. 

 Mr. Henry W. Fowler has completed the rearrangement of the 

 alcoholic fishes. 



In the Botanical department, the services of Air. Stewardsou 

 Brown were secured in the spring as an assistant to the Curators 

 and the work of mounting the herbarium has been pushed rapidly 

 toward completion. Much work has been done in this depart- 

 ment by Vice-President, Thomas Meehau. 



JNIr. Clarence B. Moore has added many valuable specimens 

 to his collection in the department of Archeology, which is now 

 one of the most valuable in our museum, and Mi*. Theodore D. 

 Rand has spent much time in the care and arrangement of the 

 William S. Vaux Collection of minerals. 



By the liberality of Rev. Dr. Leauder T. Chamberlain, the 

 Isaac Lea Collection of Eocene and Oligocene fossils has been 

 extended by a large series from the Chipola ( Florida) bed, collected 

 by Mr. C. W. Johnson ; a fine series from the Ballast Point Silex 

 beds, and less important collections from other American localities. 

 Sul)stantial additions have also been made to the series from the 

 Oligocene and Eocene of Europe. In all, fifteen hundred and 

 thirty-two trays of fossils have been added to the collection during 

 the year, the total number of accessions catalogued now reaching 

 sixty-six hundred and eighty-two entries, with some material still 

 to be determined. Two new caj«es have been provided for the 

 accommodation of this material. The continued interest of Dr. 

 Chamberlain in this department of the Museum is a cause of con- 

 gratulation, as it secures important advancement of American 

 invertebrate paleontology. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 769 



The Curators, considering the duplication of collections undesir- 

 able, have transferred certain Eocene and Oligoceue fossils of Ja- 

 maica and Santo Domingo and of the London and Paris basins to 

 the Isaac Lea Collection, wherein they can be arranged and dis- 

 played. 



In other departments we would acknowledge the continued assist- 

 ance of Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry of the Conchological Section, Dr. 

 Henry Skinner, Dr. Philip P. Calvert and Mr. Charles Liebeck of 

 the Entomological Section, and Messi's. Lewis Woolman and Theo- 

 dore D. Rand of the Geological Section; also the efficient aid 

 received from the students of the Jessup Fund, Miss Harriet N. 

 Wardle and Messrs. Fowler, Hamilton, Vanatta, Satterthwait and 

 Kehn. 



Several of the collections have benefited from critical study by 

 specialists during the year, notably the North American Ophidia, 

 studied by Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, the Cetacean skeletons by 

 Dr. F. W. True, and the Mosses by Mrs. Elizabeth G. Britton. 

 The additions to the Museum have been many; among the most 

 important being the Lamborn Collection of Mexican Antiquities, 

 the Charles E. Smith Herbarium, the numerous valuable speci- 

 mens received from the Zoological Society of Philadelphia, and the 

 Japanese Moliusca received from ]Mr. Y. Hi rase, of Kyoto, 

 Japan. Of particular interest also is a life-size portrait of 

 Linnaeus, copied from the original in Holland especially for the 

 Academy and presented by the late Charles E. Smith early in the 

 year ; some heads of Indian Buffaloes, collected and deposited by 

 Dr. A. Donaldson Smith, and a beautiful exhibition case of 

 Lepidoptera, the gift of Mr. Charles H. Hutchinson. 



Specimens have been loaned for study during the year to Mrs. 

 E. G. Britton, Messrs. C. R. Ball, W. B. Oarke, F. M. Chap- 

 man, F. R. Coville, W. H. Dall, M. J. Elrod, C. R. Eastman, 

 George H. Girty, A. H. Howell, Alpheus Hyatt, W. P. Hay, 

 R. T. Jackson, G. S. ^Sliller, E. L. Morris, P. Ryberg, Robert 



Ridgway and J. K. Small. 



Henry C. Chapman, 



Chairman. 




770 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



REPORT OF THE CURATOR OF THE WILLIAM S. 

 V^AUX COLLECTIONS. 



The Curator of the William S. Vaux Collections would respect- 

 fully report tnat there have been added to the collection since the 

 last report one hundred and fifty- eight specimens, many of them 

 of unusual excellence, at a cost of over SIOOO, exhausting the 

 funds available at present. 



To provide for efficient display additional case room must very 

 soon be supplied, as a number of excellent specimens are not ex- 

 posed to view. 



The catalogue of species has been completed and also a card 

 catalogue. 



The Curator desires to express his acknowledgments to Mr. 

 George Vaux, Jr., for valuable aid in the selection and procuring 

 of specimens, and to Miss Harriet N. Wardell for admirable work 

 on the catalogue and assistance in arranging the collection. 

 Respectfully submitted, 



Theo. D. Raxd, 



Curator. 



REPORT OF THE BIOLOGICAL AXD MICROSCOPICAL 



SECTION. 



The Section held ten meetings during the year with the usual 

 attendance. Numerous communications, illustrated by slides and 

 specimens, were made at the regular meetings, and in addition to 

 these others were made at the meetings in conjunction with the 

 Academy by Messrs. Pilsbry, Woolman, Sharp, MorriSj Palmer 

 and Keeley. 



The following articles were recommended for publication in the 

 Proceedings of the Academy : 



" The Structure of the Diatom Girdle," by T. C. Palmer and 

 F. J. Keeley. 



" Biddulphoid Forms of North American Diatomacea^" by 

 Charles S. Boyer. 



Arrangements have been made for a joint meeting of the 

 Biological Society of the University of Pennsylvania and the 




1900.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 771 



Biological and Microscopical Section of the Academy, and for a 

 Microscopical Exhibition. 



The following officers were elected to serve during the ensuing 

 year : 



Director, 

 Vice-Director, . 

 Treasurer, 

 Conservator, 



Corresponding Secretary, 

 Recorder, 



J. Cheston Morris, M. D. 

 T. Chalkier Palmer. 

 Lewis ^yoolman. 

 F. J. Keeley. 

 Silas L. Schumo. 

 Charles S. Boyer. 

 Charles S, Boyer, 



Recorder. 



REPORT OF THE COXCHOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The collection of mollusks has been increased during the year by 

 about 2,064 lots, representing over 10,000 specimens, received from 

 sixty-six persons. The collection remains in about the same con- 

 dition as last year, except that a rearrangement of the entire series 

 of land mollusks has been begun. 



The Australian and Oriental Bulimi have been examined and 

 relabeled in the course of work upon these groups for the Manual 

 of Conehology. The Xorth American Pupidre have also been 

 reviewed, and the Japanese land snails of the collection have 

 undergone revision. 



As in former years, a large amount of work has been done upon 

 North American mollusks. These studies have been instrumental 

 in obtaining much material from naturalists in this country and 

 abroad, who send it upon the condition that such collections be 

 investigated. 



Sixteen papers dealing with this material have been published 

 in the current volume of the Proceedings of the Academy, with an 

 equal number of minor articles in the Nautilus and elsewhere. 



During the year the Section has issued Vol. XIII of the second 

 series of the Manual of Conehology. 



Mr, E. G. Vanatta has rendered valuable assistance throughout 

 the year in all departments of the Section's activity. The thanks 

 of the Section are also due to Mr. Charles "\Y. Johnson, of the 

 Museum Committee, for assistance upon many occasions. 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Conservator. 




772 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



REPORT OF THE EXTOMOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The usual monthly meetings of the Section have been held, ■with 

 an average attendance of ten pex'sons. Two members and two 

 associates have been elected. The collections are in a good state of 

 preservation, and their care, mounting and the incorporation of new 

 material has been the principal work of the year. The Conserva- 

 tor has been aided in this work by Mr. Alfred F. Satterthwait, 

 Jessup Fund student, and by several members of the Section. The 

 desiderata from tlie 10,000 specimens of exotic Coleoptera included 

 in tne Griffith collection have been properly placed. Like disposi- 

 tion has been made of the collections made in Florida by H. A. 

 Pilsbry, in Maryland by E. G. Vanatta, in Manchuria by Dr. A. 

 D. Smith and G. Farnum, in Palestine by R. Weber, in Utah by 

 H. Skinner, and in Pennsylvania by H. W. "Wenzel. These gifts 

 are more particularly recorded in the list of additions to the Mu- 

 seum last year and chis. 



A second case for the display of the beautifully mounted butter- 

 flies, the gift of Mr. Charles H. Hutchinson, has been tilled. 

 Tiie large collections made by Dr. A. D. Smith in Africa have 

 been remounted and are ready for distribution to the cabinets. A 

 fine collection of 450 specimens of various orders from Japan, col- 

 lected and presented by Dr. H. C. Wood, have also been mounted 

 and partly distributed. A collection of 340 ants from Pennsyl- 

 vania and New Jersey, presented by Mr. H. W. Wenzel, have 

 been mounted and placed with the Hymenoptera. A .small but 

 valuable collection of butterflies and moths from Bolivia was 

 received from Miss Prentiss Smith. They have been placed in the 

 Marti ndale collection and are all new to the cabinet. The exotic 

 Bombycida; have been rearranged and relabeled. 



Dr. Calvert has incorporated into the collection of Odonata 381 

 dragon-flies from Bolivia, which were purchased. 



The American moths to the end of the Crambida? have been 

 rearranged and relabeled. They are now in good condition for 

 study and reference. Mr. Liebeck has rearranged the American 

 Coleoptera as far as the family Anthicida\ 



The enormous collections in the care of the Section are particularly 

 liable to the attack of museum pests and require a care and over- 

 sight which necessitate the expenditure of much time. As improve- 




1900.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 773 



ments in cabinets and cases are secured, the use of poisons for 

 disinfecting — or rather disinsecting — purposes will be less neces- 

 sary. This year about fifty pounds of naphthaline have been 

 placed in the collection of exotic Coleoptera alone. 



The growth of the collections is very satisfactory, and their 

 value is evidenced by the fact that many students from other 

 museums and scientific societies find it necessary to consult them. 

 The Entomological News has been continued and Volume XI, 

 just completed, contains 339 pages and 17 plates. 



At the annual meeting of the Section, held December 27, the 

 following persons were elected to serve as officers for the year 1901: 



Director, ...... Philip Laurent. 



Vice-Director, 



Treasurer, . 



Conservator and Recorder 



Secretary, 



Publication Committee, . 



H. W. Wenzel. 



E. T. Cresson. 



Henry Skinner. 



C. W. Johnson. 



J. H. Ridings, 



C. W. Johnson. 



Henry Skixner, 



Recorder and Conservator. 



REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL SECTION. 



The Director of the Botanical Section has pleasure in reporting 

 that the prospects of the botanical interests of the Academy were 

 never better than now. So far as the growth and care of the 

 herbarium is concerned, the report of the Conservator attached 

 hereto details tlie progress made. The Redfield Memorial Fund 

 of $20,000, which it was proposed to establish as a mark of grati- 

 tude for the life-long devotion to the interests of the Academy of 

 our deceased fellow-member, John H. Redfield, ceased to grow 

 when about one-fourth of the sum had been subscribed, owing to 

 the temporary need of the Academy at that periud in another 

 direction. Though the Academy has materially aided in the care 

 of the herbarium by detailing a special assistant to the Curators to 

 assist in the work, the original idea of honoring our deceased 

 friend by a 820,000 " Memorial Fund " should not be lost sight 

 of through lapse of time. 

 50 




774 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



The growth and care of the herbarium is but a small field in the 

 realm of botany, and there is no leason why the Academy may 

 not occupy in time a foremost place among the institutions of the 

 world in the advancement of this amiable science, when it possesses 

 resources commensurate with the full measure of the task. 



Meetings of the Section have been held regularly, except during 

 the three summer months. Valuable communications have been 

 made at each meeting, some of which have been accepted as of 

 original merit for the Proceedings of the Academy, 

 The officers elected for the year ensuing were: 

 Director, ..... Thomas Meehan. 

 Vice-Director, .... George M. Beringer. 

 Recorder, .... John "NV. Harshberger. 



Treasurer and Conservator, . Stewardson Brown. 



Corresponding Secretary, . . Joseph D. Crawford. 

 Executive Committee, . . George ]M. Beringer, 



Thomas Meehan, 

 Stewardson Brown, 

 Joseph D. Crawford, 

 Dr. Ida A. Keller. 

 Respectfully submitted, 



Thomas Meehan, 



Director. 



Report of the Conservator. — The mounting of the plants in the 

 general herbarium has been finished through the Exogens, and it 

 is expected that this entire work will be completed during the 

 coming year. The work has been accomphshed through the untir- 

 ing efforts of the Director of the Section, Sir. Thomas Meehan, 

 aided by ]Mr. Uselma C. Smith, with the official aid of the Con- 

 servator, who in Slay became a member of the working staff of the 

 Academy by his appointment as an assistant to the Curators. He 

 has thus been enabled to devote his entire time to the work in hand, 

 and, with the employment of a permanent assistant in the herba- 

 rium, 14,000 sheets of specimens have been arranged during the 

 year. 



While a rapid completion of the work of mounting the herba- 

 rium would thus be indicated, there yet remains a vast accumula- 

 tion of material, including the C. W. Short herbarium and several 




1900.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 775 



smaller collections, which, at the px^eseut rate of progress, will take 

 several years to properly arrange. 



It is also proposed, during the coming year, to rename the North 

 American species to conform with the modern ideas of nomencla- 

 ture. This in itself will be a vast work, but the Conservator has 

 been promised liberal assistance to aid in its accomplishment. 



Notwithstanding that two years ago nine new cases were provided 

 to relieve the congested condition of the collections, the cases are 

 again becoming overcrowded, and additional accommodation is 

 required for the arrangement of the specimens after mounting and 

 for the placing of the natural growth through accessions. 



The Cyperacete, Graminere and Pteridophytes are at present in 

 the room devoted to North American plants, because of the impos- 

 sibility of placing them systematically with the rest of the herba- 

 rium owing to the lack of casing. 



It seems very advisable that all the general collections should be 

 arranged together in sequence, and in order to accomplish this 

 and relieve the overcrowded condition, as well as provide for the 

 several special collections which are now wholly unprovided for, 

 the Conservator recommends the erection of cases on the remain- 

 ing wall space in the Botanical rooms on the library floor. 



In the latter part of May the herbarium of the late Charles 

 Eastwick Smith was received at the Academy. It contains 

 nearly 5,000 species, about half of which were collected within the 

 fifteen-mile radius of the City Hall, the balance being largely 

 plants which were no doubt, with a few exceptions, received in 

 exchange. The latter part of the collection is unusually rich in 

 Carices and the Juncacese, two srroups in which Mr. Smith was 

 particularly interested. It contains a full set of Engelmann's 

 Herbarium Juncorum Boreali-Americanorum Normale, as well as a 

 partial set of the species of the " Southern Flora" collected by 

 Drs. Chapman and B. F. Saurman. Of these plants 1,200 sheets 

 have been mounted and the balance Avill be completed during the 

 coming year. These and other accessions to the herbarium, 

 amounting to 7,000 specimens, are recorded in the list of accessions 

 to the Museum. 



STtw'ARDSON Brown, 



Conservator. 




776 



PEOCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1900. 



REPORT OF THE MIXERALOGICAL AND GEOLOG- 

 ICAL SECTION. 



The Director of the Mineralogical and Geological Section would 

 respectfully report that nine meetings were held during the year 

 with an average attendance of eight members, A number of 

 communications were read, and no lack of interest has been mani- 

 fested among the few connected with the Academy who are espe- 

 cially concerned with these branches of science. 



In addition to the above two field meetings were held, one at 

 Durham Furnace and vicinity and the trap outcrop at Xock- 

 amixon, the other to Camp Hill, Jarrettown and Three Tuns. 

 These were largely attended. 



The Section has suffered the loss by death of two of its members, 

 Mr. Wilfred Harned and Dr. J. T. M. Cardeza. The latter was 

 one of the earliest members of the Section, and took an active 

 part in its work so long as his health permitted. 



Additions to the Museum, elsewhere recorded, have not been 

 large in number, but some of them are valuable. 



The oflScers elected at the annual meeting were as follows : 



Theodore D. Rand. 



Director, 

 Vice-Director . 

 Conservator, 

 Secretary, 

 Treasurer, 



Benjamin Smith Lyman. 

 F. J. Keeley. 

 Charles Schwffer, M.D. 

 Emma Walter. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Theodore D. Raxd, 



Director. 



REPORT OF THE ORNITHOLOGICAL SECTION. 



While no general rearrangement of the exhibition series of birds 

 has been possible during the past year, the erection of a large 

 exhibition case has been completed on the bird-floor of the new 

 Museum, which, with the two smaller cases already in position. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 777 



■will permit of tlie removal of a portion of the collection to its new 

 quarters early in the coming year. 



The Curators have also provided ten additional moth-proof 

 storage cases for skins, and the Conservator has been enabled to 

 rearrange the entire series of American Passerine birds, numbering 

 some 12,000 specimens. By this means the Hoopes series has been 

 combined with the general collection, which greatly facilitates the 

 study of the material. Many specimens previously exposed in 

 unsafe wooden cases have been placed beyond the reach of dust 

 and moths. 



The Old- World Passeres are, however, still occupying temporary 

 cases, and the pro\'ision of tight cases for their accommodation 

 <;annot be too strongly urged. The receptacles as finally arranged 

 have been labeled to facilitate reference, some 400 cards having 

 been prepared. 



During the year the exhibition collect'ou of Xorth American 

 Warblers, Woodpeckers, Hawks and Owls formed by Mr. Josiah 

 Hoopes has been entirely remounted on natural branches and 

 placed in the Museum. It comprises 158 groups and forms one of 

 the finest exhibits in the ornithological galleries. 



A number of specimens presented by Dr. Samuel W. Wood- 

 house have also been remounted and placed on exhibition, while 

 several valuable nests and eggs from the mountains of Pennsyl- 

 vania have been added to the Delaware Valley Club collection. 



Through the liberality of several members of the Academy a 

 fund has been subscribed sufficient to secure for the institution a 

 full set of the valuable Alaskan birds obtained by Mr. E. A. 

 Mcllhenoy, which when added to the present series of American 

 water birds will render it nearly complete. 



The general activity in the study of ornithology at the x\cademy 

 has continued during the year. The Delaware Valley Ornitho- 

 logical Club and Pennsylvania Audubon Society have held their 

 meetings in the building. Many of our specimens have also been 

 consulted by ornithologists from other institutions, notably by Mr. 

 Robert Ridgway, who has made considerable use of the Acad- 

 emy's material in the preparation of his forthcoming monographs 

 of American birds. 



For assistance during the year the Conservator is indebted to 

 Mr. J. A. G. Rehn. 




778 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



At the annual meeting of the Section, held December 17, 1900, 

 the following officers were elected: 



Director, .... 



Vice-Director, 



Recorder, .... 



Secretary, . 



Treasurer and Conservator, . 



Spencer Trotter, M.D. 

 George Spencer ]Nrorri?. 

 Stewardson Brown. 

 William A. Shryock. 

 Witmer Stone. 



Respectfully submitted, 



WiTMEE Stoxe, 



Conservator. 



The election of Officers, Council 

 mittee on Accounts to serve during 

 ing result: 



President, .... 



Vice-Presidents, . 



Recording Secretary, 

 Corresponding Secretary, 

 Treasurer, .... 

 Librarian, .... 

 Curators, .... 



Councilors to serve three years. 



Committee on Accounts, 



ors and Members of the Com- 

 1901 was held with the follow- 



Samuel G. Dixon, M.D. 



Thomas !Meehan, 



Arthur Erwin Brown, 



Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



Benjamin Sharp, M. D. 



George Vaux, Jr. 



Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



Henry C. Chapman, M.D.,. 

 Arthur Erwin Brown, 

 Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., 

 Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D. 



Charles Schaeffer, M.D., 

 Dr. C. Newlin Pierce, 

 Theodore D. Rand, 

 Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D. 

 I'selma C. Smith, 

 Charles Morris, 

 William L. Baily, 

 Harold Wingate, 

 Lewis Woolmau. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 779 



COUNCIL FOR 1901. 



Ex-officio. — Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., Thomas Meebau, Arthur 

 Erwin Brown, Edward J. Nolan, M.D., Benjamin Sharp, M.D., 

 George Vaux, Jr., Henry A. Pilsbry, Henry C. Chapman, M.D. 



To serve Three Years. — Charles SchaefFer, M.D., Dr. C. 2^ewlin 

 Pierce, Theodore D. Rand, Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D. 



To serve Tuv Years. — Thomas A. Robinson, Charles H. Cramp, 

 Charles Morris, Isaac J. Wistar. 



To serve One Year. — Charles Roberts, Uselma C. Smith, Juhn 

 Cadwalader, William Sellers. 



ELECTIONS DURING 1900. 



MEMBERS. 



January SO. — Florence Bascom, AVilliam E. Barrows, S. Men- 

 delson Meehan, Catharine G. Dixon, William R. Reinick. 



February 27. — Harry G. Parker. 



March 27. — John W. Harshberger, Ph.D., John H. Converse. 



April 2J^.—\\?.\te\' T. Taggart, M. G. Miller, M.D. 



May 30. — W. H. Bower, John Thomson. 



September 25. — Lowndes Taylor, Helen Taylor, Emily Hinds 

 Thomas. 



Oeto6e/- 5C.— Thomas S. Stuart, M.D. 



November 27. — T. Percival Gersou, M. D. 



CORRESPONDENTS. 



February 27. — Henri Lacaze-Dulhier, of Paris ; Frederic W. 

 True, of Washington. 




780 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



ADDITIONS TO THE MUSEUM. 



Mammals. 



G. "NV. Bell. Three specimens of Varyiug Hare, Lepus 

 americanus virginianus, from Pennsylvania, prepared as skins. 



Otto Behr. Red Squirrel, Sciurus hudsonius loquax, Penu- 

 sylvania. Skin. 



J. L. Buck. Young Black Bear, Ursm americanus, prepared 

 as skin. 



H. C, Chapmax, M. D. Notonjdes tyjjhlops, sjiecimen in 

 alcohol and mounted skeleton; Senmopithecns sp., brain; Cheiro- 

 mys madagascariensis in alcohol. 



J. E. Cleave c AND, M.D., through S. N. Pthoads. Varying 

 Hare, Lepics americanus virginianus, Bradford county, Pa., pre- 

 pared as a mount. 



H. W. Fowler. Five skins from Holmesburg, Pa., Putorius 

 noveboracensis, Scalops aqnaticns, Didelphis virginianus (2), Blarina 

 brevicaiida. 



Edw. B. Gleason, M.D. Ear hone of Whale. 



Anna Hartshorne. Mounted si>ecimen of Rat, Miis sp., 

 Japan. 



David McCadden. Skull of Caribou, Rangifer terrce-novce. 



Mrs. J. A. Marsden. Mumraiiied Rat. 



Purchased. Young Orangutan, Simia satyrus, in alcohol; 

 3Iacacus maurus, prepared for mounting. 



Abraham Reed, M.D. ^Mounted specimen of Gray Seal, 

 Holoehcerus gryphus, Tadousac Bay. 



S. N. Rhoads. Mole, Scalojys aquaticu-^, Audubon, N. J. . pre- 

 pared as skin. 



P. A. Sheaff, M.D. Preparation of Human Ear. 



Mrs. Charles Schaeffer. Skin of Alaskan Lynx, Lynx 

 canadensis mollipilosus ; skins of ArHomii-', \eoto)na and Perontys- 

 cus, from Glacier, B. C. 



E. W. Coles. Double Kitten in alcohol. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 781 



Henry Warrington. Mounted Opossum, Didelphis virgin- 

 ianus ; two skins and skulls of Onjzomys palustris, from Salem, 

 N. J. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. The following 

 specimens which have been prepared as indicated : Mounted: 

 Black Macaque, Macacus maurus, female; Vervet Monkey, 

 Cercopithecm pygerythrus ; Green Monkey, C. callltrichus, male ; 

 Diadem Monkey, G. leueamjnjx, male; Moua Monkey, C. mona, 

 female; White-crowned Mangaby, Cercoeebus cethiops ; Wanderoo, 

 Macacus silenus ; Leonine Macaque, Macacus leoninus, male; 

 Arabian Baboon, Papio hamadryas ; Mongoose, Herpestes mungo ; 

 Prong- horned Antelope, Antilocajyra americana, male and female; 

 Vulpine Phalanger, Trichosaurus vulpecula, female. To be 

 mounted : Leopard, Felis pardus, female ; Jagarundi, Felis jagar- 

 undi, male; Long-eared Fox, Otocyon megalotis, male; Coati, 

 Nasua narica ; Collared Peccary, Dicotyles angulatus, male; Ben- 

 nett's Gazelle, G. bennetti, male; Rufous-necked Wallaby, Halam- 

 atiirus ruficollis, male; Prevost's Squiirel, S. jirevosti, male. Skins 

 and skulls: Gercocebus collar is, G. albigularls, Gercopithecus eryth- 

 rogaster, Gercopithecus sp., G. callitrichus, G. ludio, G. niger, G. 

 mona, G. nictitans, Macacus maurus, Galera barbara, Ganis azarce, 

 Gholoepus sp., Halamaturus ruficollis, Betlongia gaimardi, Sciurus 

 bicolor (no skull), Lepus arizonce (no skull), Lynx rufus arizon<x, 

 Goetidou prehensllis. Skins and skeletons: Otocyon megalotis, 

 Nasua narica. Rough skeletons: Ateles ater. Lemur macaco (2) 

 Macacus maurus, M. fuscatus, Ursus arctos, Fennecus zerda, Ibex 

 ibex. Bison bison (two males). Skulls: Gercopithecus cephus and 

 Bassariscus astutus. Alcoholic: Gercophithecus jyygerythrus (juv. ), 

 two young Monkeys, Gercopithecus campbelli (juv.), Nyctipithecu>< 

 trivirgatus, Nycticebus tardigradus, Ijcmur macaco. Lemur albifrons, 

 Dipus jaculus, Neotoma albigula, Didelphis virginianus (very 

 young). 



In exchange : Two alcoholic specimens of Phyllonycteris plani- 

 frons. 



Birds. 



American Colonjzation Society. Two cases of mounted 

 birds from Liberia. 



H. C. Borden. Game Rooster, prepared as a skin. 




782 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



H. G. Bryant. Marsh Hawk, Circus hucUonlas, prepared as 

 a skin. 



David Conover. MouateJ Peacock. 



S, G. Dixo.v, M.D, Cooper's Hawk, Accipiter Cooperi, Ham- 

 burg, Pa., prepared as a skin. 



Delaware Valley Ornithological Club. Seven nests ami 

 eggs, and six mounted birds from Pennsylvania, collected by W. 

 L. Baily, Otto Behr, Witmer Stone and Henry Warrington. 



George L. Farnuat. Two Pileated Woodpeckers, Ceophlceus 

 plleatas, from Ontario, prepared as skins. 



Anna Hartshorne. Two mounted Japanese birds. 



Horatio Hale (est.). Case of twelve mounted birds from 

 the South Pacific, collected on the U. S. Exploring Expedition. 



David McCadden. Sternum of Olor eolambianus and four 

 skulls of Numenius hudsonius. 



C. J. Pennock. Flat skin of Campephilu-s principalis, Florida. 



Purchased. The Hoopes Collection of North American Birds, 

 some 8,000 specimens. 



Mrs. Charles Schaffer. Six bird skins from Glacier, B. C. 



H. G. Parker. Skin of Junco hyemalis pinoms. 



John Carson. Triple Eobin's nest, Wynne<vood, Pa. 



Henry Warrington. Collection of bird skins from Cali- 

 fornia. 



Albert Whitaker. Great Blue Heron, Ardea herodia.s. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. The following were 

 prepared as indicated: Skins: C/iry-soti^ sp., Cassicits sp. , Dendro- 

 cygna javanica, Garndax chinensis. Skull and sternum: Toiitalws 

 loculator, Porphyrio calvus, Coscoroba coscoroba. Skull: Porjihyrio, 

 Goiira coronata. Hough skeleton, Demirocygna javanica. 



Reptiles and Batrachians. 



Arthur Erwin Brown. Varanus varanus (2), Tiliipia 

 scincoides (f), Chelodina longicoUi--i. 



Stewardson Brown. Collection of twenty-five Snakes and 

 Salamanders from Lake Ganoga, Pennsylvania. 



J. L. Buck. Alligator mississippiemi^ prepared as rough 

 skeleton. 



R. D. Carson. Hamadryas Cobra. 



G. A. Boulenger, a series of European Batraoliia. 



Clarence B. Moore. Six casts of Snakes. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 78.> 



J. W. Peirce. Four Amblystoma pundatum, Clifton, Delaware 

 county, Pa. 



C W. Potts. Mounted Heloderma suspeetum, Arizona. 



Purchased. Nedurus maculatus, Darby Creek, Delaware 

 county, Pa. 



Hon. Walter Rothschild, Testudo ephippium, Duncan 

 Island, Galapagos. 



Marian Skinner. Liopeltis vernalis. Lake George, N. Y. 



H. C. AVooD, M.D. A small collection of Batrachia from 

 Japan. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. CTotalus durissus 

 (3), Coluber obsoletus llndheimeri (2), Spilotes corals xanthoura^ 

 Lachesis lunceolatiis, Boa diviniloqua, Macrochelys lacertina, 

 Ctenosaura acanthura, Tiliqua scincoides, Testudo argentma, Tes- 

 tudo f/eometrica. 



Fishes. 



H. C. Chapman, M.D. Skeleton, dried specimen and alcoholic 

 specimen of Callirhynchus antardicus, skeleton of Chimaera and 

 small shark, articulated skeleton of head of Codfish, alcoholic 

 specimen of Pollstotrema dombey. 



S. G. Dixon, M.D. Egg of Shark, Islesboro, Me. 



Louis Paris. Saw of Sawfish. 



J. B. Samuel. Boney plate of Sturgeon. 



C. S. Tyler. Lop hms piscator from Ocean City, !N. J. 

 ' Henry Warrington. Eight fishes from the West Indies. 



Recent Mollusca. 



C. F. Ancey. Three trays and two bottles of land shells from 

 Algeria. 



Mrs. George Andrews. Five trays of land shells from Ten- 

 nessee. 



F. H. Andrus. Five trays and four bottles of land and fresh- 

 water shells from Oregon. 



Edwin Ashby. Four trays and one bottle of Chitons from 

 South Australia. 



Rev. E. H. Ashmun. One hundred and nine trays and four 

 bottles of land shells from Arizona, New Mexico and California. 



F. C. Baker. One tray 3f Plsidium from Xew York. 




784 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



F. N. Balch. Nine trays of marine shells from Coldsprino; 

 Harbor, Long Island Sound. 



F. H. Brown. Xinety-three trays of shells from Xew Jersey 

 and Pennsylvania. 



SrBWARDSOx Brown'. Twenty-seven trays and twelve bottles 

 of land shells from Potter and Clinton counties, Pa. 



F. W. Bryant. Five trays of shells and one bottle of Agrio- 

 limax from California. 



F. L. Button. Thirteen trays and two bottles of "West Coast 

 land shells. 



H. C. Chapman, M.D. Alcoholic specimens of Nautilus 

 pompilius L. and one tray of land shells from Gibraltar. 



George H. Clapp. Twenty-one trays of land shells from 

 Maine and Tennessee, U. S., and Colombia, S. A. 



T. D. A. CocKERELL. Sevcnty-three trays and three bottles 

 of land shells from New Mexico, etc. 



J. C. Cox, M.D. Nine trays of land shells from Australia, etc. 



W. H. Dale, M. D. Three trays and two bottles of land shells 

 from Cocos Island, W. Mexico, etc. 



L. E. Daniels. Four trays of land and fresh- water shells. 



S. M. Edwards. Fourteen trays of land and fresh-water 

 shells from North Dakota. 



C. H. EiGENMANN. Tvpes of Helicodiscus eigenmanni Pils. 



M. J. Elrod. Thirteen trays and one bottle of land and fresh- 

 water shells from ^lontana. 



J. H, Ferriss. Two hundred and fifteen trays and sixteen 

 bottles of United States land shells. 



John Ford. One tray of Mopalia from California. 



H. W. Fowler. Two trays of fresh-water shells from Penn- 

 sylvania and New York. 



L. S. Fhierson. Nine trays of fresh-water shells from Lou- 

 isiana. 



M. R. Gaines. Three trays of Japanese land shells. 



Mrs. E. M. Gaylord. One tray of Trophon from Calfornia. 



G. K, Gude. Six trays of Japanese land shells. 



Addjson Gi'LiCK. Seven trays of Chinese and Japanese laud 

 shells. 



A. C. Hartshorne. Eight trays of marine shells from 

 Japan. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 785 



S. "W. Heatox. Two irays of marine shells from Gloacester, 

 Mass. 



AxGELO Heilprix. Two trays of land shells from Xew York 

 and Bermuda. 



H, Hemphcll. Eight trays of marine shells from California 



J. B. Henderson, Jr. Co types of Crossopoma enganoense 

 Hend. 



Y. HiRASE. Two hundred and ninety trays of land shells from 

 Japan. 



J. D. Jamison. Seven trays of land and fresh- water shells 

 from North Dakota. 



C. W. Johnson. Forty-seven trays and fourteen bottles of 

 land shells from Florida, Panama and Borneo. 



Miss E. J. Letson. Eleven trays of Limncea from New 

 York. 



J. G. Malone. Eighty-four trays of marine shells from South 

 Africa. 



R. C. McGrec40R. Fourteen trays and ten bottles of land 

 shells from Alaska. 



William Meehan. Six trays and one buttle of marine shells 

 from Florida. 



Clarence B. Moore. Smphellajunonla'Kwa.ss. from Florida. 



H. A. PiLSBRY. One hundred and thirty-two trays and ten 

 bottles of American moll us ks. 



George Pine. Seven trays of land shells from Aripeka, Fla. 



E. Pleas. Goniobasis plebeius Anth. from Arkansas. 



Sadie F. Price. Two trays of land and fresh-water shells 

 from Kentucky. 



J. A. G. Rehn. Two bottles of New Jersey marine shells. 



S. N. Rhoads. Twelve trays and one bottle of land shells 

 from Florida and Pennsylvania. 



H. E. Sargent. Fifty-nine trays of land shells from Ten- 

 nessee. 



Silas L. Schumo. Twenty trays of fresh-water and marine 

 shells from Europe and America. 



Benjamin Sharp, M. D. Seven trays of land and marine 

 shells from Bavaria and Greenland. 



J. A. SiNGLEY. Three trays of fiesh-water shells from 

 Texas. 




786 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1900. 



UsELMA C. Smith. Ten trays and one bottle of land shells 

 from Jamaica and Pennsylvania. 



^V^. W. Smith. Terehra cerethina Lam, 



R. E. C. Stearxs. Two trays of land shells from California. 



Witmer Stone. Five trays of laud shells from Wyoming 

 county, Pa. 



D. Thaanum. Sixty trays of land and marine shells from 

 Hawaii and Queensland. 



University of Michigan. One hundred and six trays of 

 shells. 



E. G. Vanatta. Forty-two trays of land and fresh-water 

 shells from Pennsylvania and the Philippine Islands. 



T. Van Hyning. Twelve trays of land and fresh-water shells, 



J, W. Velie. Type of Calliostoma veliei Pils. from southwest 

 Florida, 



A. E. Verrill. Twenty-nine trays and thirteen boltles of 

 land shells from Bermuda. 



H. VON Ihering. Thirty- three trays of land and marine shells 

 from South America. 



Bryant Walker. Somatogyrus from Columbia, Pa. 



J. J. White. Twenty -six trays of land and marine shells from 

 Bahamas. 



Walter F. Webb. Four trays of land shells, 



Joseph Willcox. Fulgur pynim, Cape Sable, southwest 

 Florida. 



H. C. Wood, JNI.D. Melania from Japau. 



Lew^s AVoolman. Twenty-one trays of marine shells from 

 New Jersey. 



Purchased. Two hundred and eighty-six trays of East Indian 

 land shells. 



Insects. 



Mrs. C. R. Woodruff. A small collection of East Indian 

 Lepidoptera. 



H. C. Wood, ]M.D. Four hundred and fifty insects from 

 Japan, 



Arthur Erwin Brown. Two Coleopterous larva and twelve 

 specimens of " walking sticks," 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 787 



H. W. Wenzel. a large collection of New Jersey and Penn- 

 sylvania ants. 



Philip Laurent. A large nest of paper wasp ; two larvse of 

 ' Corydalus eornuius ; egg masses of Tenodera sinensis; two blown 

 iarvte of Hemileuca maia. 



W. F. Bednall. Nine Coleoptera from Australia. 



Edward Potts. Ten larvae of Coleoptera. 



Purchased. A collection of Bolivian Odonata. 



Crustacea. 



H. C. Chapman, M.D. Linndus polyp hemiis, Atlantic City, 

 N. J. 



Dr. J. C. Cox. Cypris, West Australia. 



H. W. Fowler. Cambarus, western Pennsylvania and New 

 York. 



Clarence B. Moore. Limulus j^olyphemus, Florida. 



H. A. Pilsbry. Crabs from Biscayne Bay, Fla. 



S. N. Rhoals. Cambarus pelluddus, Mammoth Cave, Ky. 



Other Invertebrates. 



F. H. Brown. Eight trays of Echinoderms, etc., New Jersey. 



D. J. Bullock. Cucumaria frondosa, Bar Harbor, Me. 



E. D. Cope (est.). Six species of Gordlus, etc., North 

 America. 



Howard B. French. Hyalonema sp. 



J. B. Hatcher. Terebratula dorsata, Patagonia. 



Anna C. Partshorne. Glass spooge, Japan. 



D. N. McCadden. Strongylocentrotus, New Jersey. 



H. A. Pilsbry. Sponge, Biscayne Bay, Fla. 



Thomas Sharpless. Limnodrilus sp., West Chester, Pa. 



Ethnology and Archeology. 



Mr*?. Harrison Alles. Human cranium. 



Henry A. Perley. Dress of Blackfoot Squa^, Ravelstoke, 

 B. C. 



Est. of Dr. Robert Lamborn. Large collection of Mexican 

 antiquities. 



Miss Maky DaSilva. Large polished horn. 




788 proceedings of the academy of [1900. 



Invertebrate Fossils. 



Charles Bolles, Jr. Afuria, "Wilmington, N. C. 



Rev. Leander Trowbridge Chamberlain, D.D, Seven 

 hundred and twenty-four trays of Eocene and Oligocene fossils, 

 chiefly from the Gulf States. 



J. B. Hatcher. Six species of fossils from Cape Fairweather, 

 Patagonia. 



H VON Ihering, Ph.D. Corhula, Patagonia. 



C. W. Johnson. One hundred and forty species of PJiocene 

 fossils from the Caloosahatchie River. 



Joseph Willcox. Four species of Eocene and Pliocene fossils. 



Minerals. 



JoaN Border, through C. S. Welles. Rose Quartz, Silex 

 quarry, Dutcher county, X. Y. 



G. W. Chasr. Series of specimens of Zinc Blende, Rush, Ark. 



Raphael Estrada. Galenite, Joplin, Mo. 



E. J. Houston. Blende and Dolomite. 



Louis Paris. Stalactite, and series of Italian Marbles. 



Frances E. Peirce. Collection of Rocks and Minerals. 



Theodore D. Rand. Serpentine (2), Beryl (2), Sphene, 

 Galenite. 



W. T, Ryder. Garnets, Connecticut. 



Students' Minera.logical Club. Limonite Geode. 



Purchased for the William S. Vaux Collection, 158 specimens. 



Plants. 



George M. Beringer. Two species of Hieraceum, New 

 Jersey. 



Stewardson Brown. Four hundred and twenty-five species 

 of Florida plants, collected in 1894-95 by George V. Nash; 250 

 species of Pennsylvania and New Jei-sey plants. 



Samuel G. Dixon, M. D. Five species Violets, Rose Glen, Pa. 



^Ir8. a. F. Ely. Gyrostachys simple^:, Lancaster county. Pa. 



Thomas Meeiian. Ten species plants, mostly from cultivation. 



Maria Pinckney. Schweinitzia odoratd, Ell., North Carolina. 



Mrs. E. S. Sayres. Dryopturs Braunii, New Hampshire. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 789 



UsELMA C. Smith. Thirty-five species from vicinity of Lynch- 

 burg, Va. 



United States National Museum. Forty species North 

 American and European plants received in exchange. 



E. G. Vanatta. Seventy species of plants collected near 

 Chestertown, Md. 



C. F. Saunders. One hundred and fifty species North Ameri- 

 can plants. 



Additions have been acquired through purchase from the income 

 of the Redfield Memorial Fund as follows : 



John R. Barrows. One hundred and eight species California 

 plants, the collections of Purpus and Anthony. 



Theodore Bornmuller. One hundred and ninety-seven 

 species Thuringian plants, collected iu 1899; 255 species African 

 plants from the Kamarun District. 



H. E. Brown. Twenty species California and Oregon plants. 



WiLLARD N. Clute. One hundred and seventy-three species 

 Jamaica plants, collection of 1900. 



C. G. Pringle. Two hundred and sixty species Mexican 

 plants, collection of 1899. 



Fossil Plants. 



C. B. Nichols. Large slab of Fern impressions, Sibley Mine, 

 near Scranton, Pa. 



51 




790 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[1900. 



INDEX TO GENERA, ETC., 

 1900. 



Abama, . 



Abottia, . 



Abudefduf, . 



Acanthis, 



Acanthobdella 



Acanthurus, 



Acarina, 



Acavidaj, 



Acer, 



Aceraccfc, . 



Achatina, 



Achatiiiella, 



049, 



561, 502, 

 564-567, 570, 

 Achatinellidjc, . 95, 564, 

 567, 571, 

 Achatiuidif, 138, 564, 571, 

 Achillea, . . 653, 660, 

 Achnantheg, 

 Aclinauthoidefc 

 Acuida, . 

 Acrosoma, . 

 Actiuocyclup, 

 Adiantum, . 

 Adopogoii, . 

 Agaleua, 

 Agalenida; . 

 Agapostemon, . 

 Aglena, . 396, 397, 404, 

 Agnatha, . . 563, 564, 

 Agnathoinorplm, 563, 564, 

 Agrinionia, . . . 485, 



Agriolimax 



Agrostis, . . 483, 485, 



Aira, 



Aizoacelic, 



Albiuula, 



549 



536 



503 



32 



70 



513 



543 



564 



667 



667 



98 



576 



578 

 572 

 670 

 473 

 473 

 665 

 535 

 476 

 485 

 483 

 532 

 532 

 377 

 410 

 569 

 569 

 488 

 147 

 662 

 662 

 665 

 607 



Aletris, . 



Alisina, . 



Alisraaceje, 



Allocosa, 



Alsine, . 



Alycceus, 



Araarantacea, 



Ainaranthus, 



Aniblystoraa, 



Amblystomidjc. 



Ambrosia, . 



Ameiurus, . 



Aminodenia, 



Aminodrainus, . 



Ammophila, 640 



Ampelopsis, 645, 



Amp. hiprora, 



Aniphitetras, 



Amphora, . 



Aiiacardiacea 



Anagallis, . 



Auaides, 



Annmi).ses, . 



Anaphalis, . 



Anaulus, 



Aucylus, 



Andrena, 



Andropogon. 



Anguilla, 



Anguillidie, . 



Anser, 



Antcnnarid:v, 



Autciinariu?. 



Anthemi?. . 



Antirrhiuum, 



649, 



39, 



485, 488 

 . 662 

 . 662 

 . 539 



486, 488 

 . 381 

 . 665 



657, 665 



. 617 



. 617 



660, 670 



352-355 



641, 665 



. 5, 33 



643, 646, 



57-660, 662 



646-649, 667 



. 473 



690, 730 



. 473 



. 667 



. 668 



. 613 



. 506 



641, 670 



735-737 



. 457 



358-375 



646, 662 



524 



524 



15 



519 



519 



660, 670 



. 344 



087. 




1900.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



791 



Azalea, 546 



Baccharis, 643, 646, 647, 



652, 656-660, 670 



Balsena, 34 



514, 528 



. 528 



514, 528 



. 667 



483, 546 



. 485 



562, 570 



. 533 



. 543 



556-560 



550-555 



Asclepias, 486-489, 652, 



654, 669 



Ascyrum, 483 



Ashmunella, 107-109, 556-560 

 Asio, . . . . 5, 28, 153 



Asplenium, 548 



Aster, . 483-489, 660, 670 

 Athoracophoridae, . . . 561 

 Atriplex, 640, 657-660, 665 

 Attidie, .... 530, 539 



Attus, 539 



Augochlora, .... 356 

 Augochloropsis, . . . 356 

 Aulacodiscus, . . . . 477 

 Aulacopoda, . 563, 564, 



569, 570, 572, 576. 



Aulostoraidse, 

 Aulostoraus, 

 Auriculidse, 

 Autodax, 

 Awaou?, . 



... 500 



... 500 



... 577 



613, 618, 620 



. . 517 



Balistapus, . 



Balistes, . 



Balistidse, 



Balsamiuaceffi, . 



Baptisia, 



Bartonia, 



Basomraatophora, 



Bathyphantes, . 



Bdella, . . . 



Belogona, 



Berendtia, . 



Biddulphia, 475, 477, 686, 



690-731 



Biddulphife, . 686, 690, 727 



Biddulphieje, .... 686 



Bidens, . . . 483, 486, 670 



Bifidaria, 133, 426-431, 

 456, 573, 577, 590-596, 606 



Binneyia, 102 



Blennechis, 517 



Blenuidse, 517 



Blennius, 517 



Bothriopupa, . . . . 610 



Branta 15 



Bromus, 662 



Brotula, 518 



Brotulidse, 518 



Bubo, 153 



Budytes, .5, 33 



Buliminus, . . 562, 567, 575 

 Bulimulidte, 391, 561, 564, 



571, 572, 580 

 Bulimulus, . 89-92,391,392 

 Bulinus, .... 569, 576 

 Cakile, . 639, 657, 659, 666 

 Calcarius, ... 5, 30, 31 

 Calidris, ... 5, 27, 154 



Caliotaria, 43 



Callyodon, 512 



Cambarus, 434 



Campanula, . 483, 486, 488 

 CampauulaceK, . . . 670 

 Canis, 4(> 




792 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1900. 



Caiitherines, 

 Cantlii dermis, 

 Caprifoliace^e, 

 Caprolagus, . 

 Capromyp, . 

 Caracanthida;, 

 Caracanthus, 

 Carangida), . 

 Caranx, . 

 Carduus, . 046, 659, 

 Carex, 483-486, 489, 



Carya, . . . . 

 Caryophyllacese, 

 Cassandra, . . . . 

 Cassia, . . . 649, 

 Castatia, . . . . 

 Castracania, 

 Caucalis, . . . . 

 Cenchrus, 639, 640, 

 Ceutrurus, . 

 Cephalacantliidie, . 

 Cephiilacautlius, 

 Cepphus, . . . , 

 Cerataulus, . 

 Chajtodon, 503, 



1 "^O 



loo 



550- 



Chsetodontidse, 



Cha^topteriis, 



ChainaMierion, 



Charadrius, . 



Charopa, 



Cheiliuus, 



Cheilio, . 



Cheilodipteridre 



Chelifer, 



Chcloue, 



Cheu, 



Cheuopodiacea?, 



Chenopodiuin, 



Chimaphila, 



Chiracauthium, 



Chirodernia, 



Cliiromys, . 



Chondrotus, 



Choudriila, . 



Chrysophrys, 



512, 

 520, 



. 514 j Chrysopsis, . . . 484, 



514 Circinaria, 



669 Circinariidre, . 133, 564, 



460-462 Cirrhites, 



. 423 Cirrhitidse, 



515, 522 Cistaceie, 



515, 522 Clangula, 



. 501 Clausilia 443-448, 575, 

 . 501 583, 672- 



660, 670 Clausiliid^, . . . 564, 



546, Clivicola, 



652, 656 Clubiona, 



345, 346 Clubionidffi, 



665 Clupea, . 



546 Clupeidie, 



652, 666 Cuicus, . 



546 Coccoueis, 



730 Cochlicopa, . 



668 Cochlieopidte, 



649, 662 Ccelooeutrum, 



530, 541 Ca?lotes, . . 



516 Colpocepbalum, 



516 Compositio, . 

 7 1 Comptonia, . 



738 Conferva, 

 Conifene, 



528 Conoclinium, 



528 Contopus, . 



502 Conulus, 92. 96, 140, 383, 



483 Couvolvulaceie, 



23 Convolvtdus, 



576 Corema, . 



521 Coriarachue, 



510 Coris, 



502 Coruaceie, . 



543 Cornus, . 



488 Coscinodiscus, 



15 Costigo, . 



665 Cracca, . 



665 Cruciferw, . 



488 Crustulina, . 



532 Crymophilus, 



756 Crypto-Kapliid 



423 Cryptotomus, 



617 Ctenidas 



428 Ctenus, . . 



502 i Cyclorrliyuohu 



690, 

 513, 

 527, 

 512, 



oa<. 



485, 



657, 



485, 



419- 



657, 

 545, 



'20, 



yx, 



153, 



670 

 133 

 571 

 502 

 5(52 

 667 

 19 



-682 

 571 



4 

 532 

 532 

 519 

 519 

 670 

 473 

 575 

 564 

 -555 

 532 

 157 

 670 

 484 

 H89 

 661 

 632 



5 

 4de 

 669 

 669 

 547 

 537 

 510 

 668 

 348 

 475 

 432 

 484 



533 

 158 

 6S6 

 512 

 539 

 539 




1900.] NATURAL SCIEN'CES 



Cyclosa, 5HQ 



Cvclostomii, .... 080 

 CVlindrovertilla, 426-428, 



430, 431 



Cymbella, 473 



Cvnorta, 541 



Cyperacese 663 



Cyperus, . 646, 652, 659, 662 

 Cvpripedium, .... 485 



Cyrba 540 



Dactyliosoliu. .... 467 

 Dactylopterus, . . . . 516 



Danthonia, 483 



Dasystoraa, 48-^ 



Daucus, 660 



Delphinapterus, ... 34 



Deodroica, 5, 33 



Dendrvphautes, . . . 540 

 DeriQga, . . . 485, 488 

 Dermanura, . . 756, 758 

 Desmognathida?, . . . 620 

 Desmosrnathus, 50, 615- 



617, 620, 621 



Diacope, 527 



Diatoma, . . . 473, 688 

 Diatomacefe, . . , . 686 

 Dicrostonyx, . . 37, 40-42 



Dictyna, " 534 



Dictynidfe, . . . 530, 534 

 Dictvolathys, .... 534 



Diodia 632, 669 



Diomedea, . . 154, 155, 157 



Diomedia, 14 



Diospyros, 649 



D'placlme 662 



Diplommatina. 382, 576, 578 



Discopleura 668 



Distichlis, . . 653, 659, 662 

 Ditremata. . . . 561, 571 



Ditylum 743 



Docopliorus. . . . 151-153 

 Dolomedes, . . 530, 538, 539 

 Donax, .... 480, 481 



Doudia 665 



Dorichthy?, 520 



Doryrhamphus, . . • 519 

 Drassidce 531 



S OF PHILADELPHIA. 



•93 



Drosera, 485, 488, 490, 



546, 548, 647, 651, 654, 666 

 Droseracere, .... 666 

 Drvopteri?, 548, 651, 652, 661 

 Dales, .... 502, 520 




94 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1900. 



Euphorbia, 639, 640, 643, 



659, 660, 666 

 Euphorbiace?e, . 

 Eupomacentrus, 

 Eurymetopus, 

 Euthamia, . 



Exocoetida3, . 

 Exoccetus, . 



Fagacea), 

 Falco, . . 

 Fauxulus, . 

 Festuca, . 

 Fierasfer, 

 Fierasferida}, 

 Filistata, 

 Filistatidic, . 

 Fimbrystylis, 

 Fistularia, . 

 Flammaliiia, 

 Forcipiger, . 

 Fragilaria, . 

 Fratercula, . 

 Fuireua, 



Galeopithecus, 



Galium, 



Galtonia, 



Gamasus, 



Gasteracantba, 



Gastrodouta, 



484, 

 486, 



Gaucelmus, . 

 Gavia, 

 Gayenua, 

 Gaylussac'ia, 

 Geutiaua, 

 Geutiauacea;, 

 Genyoroge, . 

 Georissa, 

 Geotritou, . 

 Geraniacea\ 

 Gerauium, . 



Gerardia, 484, 486, 641, 

 646, 634, {^59, 



Glabaris, 



Glaudinida;,. . . 564, 

 Glaux, 



667 

 503, 5-27 

 157 

 487 

 500 

 500 



Glossiphonia, 



485, 488, 

 344, 



113, 115, 

 141-147, 

 530, 



485, 



664 

 28 

 596 

 6(52 

 523 

 523 

 531 

 531 

 6(;3 

 500 

 576 

 512 

 473 

 7 

 663 



423 

 (532 

 345 

 543 

 535 



45(5 

 533 

 5, 6 

 532 

 546 

 488 

 669 

 527 

 384 

 618 

 CAM] 

 Qm 



6(59 



77 



571 



668 



Glossiphonidse, 



Glyphisodon, 



Gnaphalium, 



Gnaphosa, . 



Gnathobdellida? 



Gobiidie. 



Gobius, . 



Gomphonema, 



Gomphosus, 



Goniobasis, . 



Gramiucre, . 



Grammistes, 



Gratiola, 



Gray a, . 



Grus, 



(juinardia, . 



Guppya, 92, 96, 



Guttifera), . 



Gyrinophilus, 



Gyrostachys, 488, 



Habrocestum, 



Ila'niopis, 



Haliclueres, 



Hal ictus, 



Hall ogracinacefe, 



Haplopupa, 



Happia, . 



Helianthemum, 



He ban thus, 



Helicella, 



Helicidie, 117 



56, 58, 60, 

 63-65 

 50, 59 



Heliciua, 96 



Heliciiiida% 



Helicodiscus, 



Helix, . 100 



Hemiaulidiea\ 



Hem i aulas, 



Heinidac'tylium 



Homigyninus, 



IIeniij)lia'dusa, 



Iloniiptoronotus 



Heniiranipbid;v 



Heniirainphus, 



516, 

 517, 



149, 



68< 



97, 105, 



619, 

 646, 654, 



oo - 



483, 

 (549, 



388, 564, 



571, 



116, 393, 



394, 449, 



116, 393, 



383, 559, 



68' " 



i- -oo " 



738- 

 618, 



675. 



. 69 

 , 70 

 503 

 483 

 532 



68 

 523 

 523 

 473 

 510 

 458 

 662 

 502 

 669 

 742 



20 

 467 

 386 

 667 

 620 

 664 

 540 



59 

 510 

 342 

 (568 

 610 

 386 

 487 

 670 

 575 



572 



576 

 569 

 148 

 575 

 687 

 41 

 620 

 527 

 679 

 508 

 498 

 4 MO 




1900.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



795 



Herpobdella, . . 57, 58, 6"5 

 Herpobdellidse, . . . 59, 67 



Herpyllus, 532 



Heterurethra. . 564, 570, 571 

 Hibiscus, 643, 651-656, 



659, 667 



Hieracium, . 

 Hirudiuea, . 

 Hirudo, . 

 Holcus, . 

 Holocentridffi, 

 Holocentriim, 



483, 670 

 . 67, 68-71 

 . . 59, 69 

 . 660, 662 

 501, 520, 526 

 ... 520 



Holocentrus, 501, 503, 520, 526 

 Holopoda, 563, 564, 569, 



570, 576 

 Homalattus, .... 540 



Horizopus, 29 



Hudsonia, 644, 652, 659, 



660, 667 



Huttonia, 

 Hyacinthus, 

 Hydrocenidse, 

 Hydrocotyle, 

 Hydrosera, . 

 Hylobates, . 

 Hylocichla, . 

 Hypericum, 

 Hypopitys, . 

 Hyporhampus, 

 Hypoxys, . 

 Hypselostoma, 

 Icius, 



687, 737 

 . . 438 

 . . 576 

 . . 668 



687, 734 



414-418 

 . . 5, 33 

 646, 654, 667 



485, 490 

 . . 498 

 . 484, 546 

 . . 596 

 . . 540 



Ilex, 349, 645, 648, 649, 



659, 667 



Immersidens, .... 606 



Impatiens, . . . 652, 667 



lo, . 459 



lonactis, 670 



Iphigenia, . . . 480, 481 



Isthmia, . 478, 686, 688, 689 



Isthmise, . . . 686, 688 



Iva, 648, 652, 656-659, 670 



Janellidse, 562 



Juglans, 345 



Julis, .... 508, 510 



Juncacese, 663 



Junco, 4 



Juncus, ■' 485, 486, 489, 



548, 647, 652-654, 659, 663 

 Juuiperus, 646, 648, 649, 



652, 659, 661 



Kaliella, 383 



Kalraia, . 484, 645, 647, 668 

 Kaladysas, . . . 529, 532 



Kneiffia, 668 



Kosteletskya, 643, 654, 



659, 660, 667 

 502, 520, 527 

 502, 520, 527 



503 



Kuhlia, . 



Kuhlidse, 



Labiatse, 



Labridse, 



Labrus, . 



Lacinaria, 



Lactuca, 



Lagopus, 



Lampsilis, 



Larinia, . 



Larus, 5, 9, 1 



Lathrndectes, 



Lathyrus, 



Lauderia, 



LauracejB, . 



Lechea, . 



Legumiuosai, 



Leiuranus, . 



Lemmus, 



Leptamnium, 



Leptilon, 



Leptinaria, . 



Leptocephalidse 



... 669 



506, 521, 527 



, 508, 510, 527 



... 671 



660, 671 



. 27, 28, 156 



. . 74-77 



. . . 5.36 



, 152, 153, 159 



... 533 



642, 658-660, 666 



467, 475 



... 666 



645, 660, 667 



... 666 



... 494 



. 35, 40-42 



... 490 



641, 660, 671 



. . .95-98 



... 494 



Leptocephalus, .... 494 

 Lepus, .... 35, 460, 462 

 Lespedeya, 483, 649, 659, 666 



Lestris, 153 



Leucochila, 585 



Leucochiloides, . . . 585 

 Leurognathus, . . 620, 621 

 Liatris, .... 342, 671 



Liliaceae, 664 



Lilium, 664 



Limacidse, 147, 584, 569, ' 



571, 572, 576 



Limax, 575 



Limnsea, . . 457, 567, 569 




79G 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1900. 



484, f545 



Limnodorum, . . 485, 488 

 Limodorum, .... 546 

 Limonium, 653, 654, 659, 



660, 669 



Limosa, 5, 27 



. 666 



659, 666 



. 533 



. 541 



154-156 



649, 669 



. 743 



. 533 



652, 670 



. 670 



. 546 



. 519 



. 423 



7 



Linacese, 



Linum, , 



Linyphia, 



Liobunum, . 



Lipeurus, 



Lippia, . 



Lithodesraium, 



Lithypli antes, 



Lobelia, . 



Lonicera, 



Lophiola, 



Lophius, 



Loris, 



Luuda, . 



Lutiauidre, . 



Lycondoutis, 



Lyeopersicon , 



Lycopodiuni, 



Lycupus, 48 



Lycosa, . 



Lycosida% 



Lygodium, . 



Lynx, . . 



Lyropupa, . 



Lysimachia, 



Lyssomanes, 



Lyssomauida?, 



Lythracea?, . 



Macoma, 



INIacrochlamys, 



ISIacropharyngodon, 



Macrorhamphus, . 



Magnolia, 488, 547, 



"iSIagnoliaceiv, 



Mahadeva, . 



Malvacere, . 



Marptusa, . 



Marrubium, 



Mastogloia, . 



Medionidus, 



Megalopta, . 



Meiboniia, . 



502, 527 



. 494 



641, 669 



. 548 



5, 488, 649, 669 



396, 530, 538 



. 530, 537 



... 548 



... 48 



... 432 



483, 546 



530, 541 



. 541 



. 667 



480, 481 



. 382 



. 50H 



. 27 



649, 665 



. 665 



. 535 



. 667 



. 540 



. 547 



. 473 



356, 367, 373 

 649, 659, 666 



Melarapyrum, 

 Melania, 

 Melastomacese, 

 Melosira, . 

 Menopon, 

 Merganser, . 

 Meridion, 

 Microbdella, 

 Microcystis, 

 Micropus, 

 Mikandia, . 

 Misumena, . 

 Moehriugia, . 

 Molidte, . 

 Monacanthidic, 

 Monacanthus, 

 Monarda, t)46, 

 !Monoceros, . 

 Monotremata, 

 Monotropa, . 

 Mugil, . . 

 !Mugilidie, 

 jNIuhlenbergia, 

 Mullid:e, . 

 Mullus, . . 

 Munona, 

 Munenida"", . 

 ]\Iurchisonia, 

 !Myctophidie, 

 !Myctophum, 

 jNIygale, . 

 Myodes, 

 Myrica, 643, 646 



!Myricacea^, . 



Myrichthys, 



!Myrio]iliyllum. 



Myripristis, . 



]Myrraeoiophila 



Myrmecophila. 



iNIysniena, . 



Nabalus, 



Niosiotus, 



Naiades. 



Xajadacea\ . 



Navioula, 



Naviculoidea\ 



649, 



. . . 546 



576 



... 668 



466, 474, 686 



158, 159 



15 



. 473 



51-71 



. 576 



515, 522 



. 649 



. 537 



. 665 



. 514 



. 514 



. 514 



659, 669 



. 513 



. 561 



. 485, 490 



500, 524, 525 



500, 524, 526 



... 662 



... 520 



. . . 520 



494, 496, 524 



. 494, 524 



329 



498 



498 



530 



40 



649, 653, 



659, 664 

 664 

 494 

 66S 

 501 

 530 

 530 

 533 

 5, 488 

 393 

 74 

 661 

 471 

 473 



48 




1900.] 



XATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



797 



Nearctula,. . 

 Neopetranis, 

 Neosubulina, 

 jSTephronaiag, 

 jSTesopupa, . 

 Nirmus, . 

 Nitzschia, 

 Nodularia, . 

 Isothoceratium, 

 ISTumenius, . 

 Nyctea, . 

 Nyssa, . 

 Obolella, . 

 Obovaria, 

 OdobajDus, . 

 Odontella, . 

 Odontostomus, 

 CEdipus, 



. 610 



. 392 



. 98 



. 77 



431, 432 



153, 154 



471, 473 



84 



. 730 



4 



28, ]53 



649, 668 



829 



78 



43 



695 



hdS 



619-621 



CEnothera, 545, 632, 641, 



659, 660, 668 



5, 20, 152, 159 



. . 329 



56, 62, 70 



Oidemia, . 

 Olenellus, 

 Oligochasta, 

 Olor, 



Omphalina, 113, 115, 134-136 



OnagraceK, 

 Opeas, 



Ophichthyidffi, 

 Ophiog]o.«sace?e, 

 Ophioglossum, 

 Ophisurus, . 

 Orchidacete, 

 Ordgarius, . 

 Orobdella, . 

 Orthotomium, 

 Orthurethra, 562, 

 Osmund a, 

 Osmund acere, 

 Ostodes, . 

 Ovoides, 

 Oxybeles, 

 Oxycoccus, . 

 Oxygraphis, 

 Oxyope?, 

 Oxyopidre, 



668 

 96, 576, 577 

 494 

 661 

 661 

 494 

 664 

 535 

 67 

 393 

 664, 569-576 

 652, 661 

 . 661 

 576-605 

 . 528 

 . 523 

 647, 668 

 . 666 

 . 539 

 . 539 



Oxypolis, 486, 488, 652, 668 

 Oxyptila, 537 



Pachylomerus , . 

 Pagophila, . . , . 

 Pauicularia, 

 Pauicum, 483-489, 

 643, 646-649, 

 Pardosa, . . . . 

 Parthenocissus, 

 Partula, 561, 562, 



570, 573, 

 Partulidfe, . 

 Parexocoetus, 

 Paspalum, 

 Passeriua, 

 Pedicularis, 

 Perca, 

 Peronteus, 

 Petroskirtes, 

 Peucetia, 

 Phalacrocorax, 

 Phalangida, 

 Phalaropus, 

 Phegopteris, 

 Phidippus, . 

 Philodromus, 

 Philomycidte, 147, 



Philomycus, . 



Phoca, 



Pholcidse, 



Pholcus, 



Phrurolitlius, 



Pbryma, 



Phyllostoma, 



Physa, 



Phytolacca, , 



Pieris, 



Pinus, 632, 645, 647 



Pisauriua, 



Pisoodonophis, 



Placobdella, 



Placostylus, . 



PI agio] a, 



Planorbis, 



Plautaginacere, 



Plantago, 



Platytrochus, 



Plectana, 



. 530 



. la 



. 662 

 549, 

 654, 662 



. 539 



. 667 

 664, 



576-579 

 564, 571 



. 500 

 486, 632 

 31 



48a 



502 



392 



517 



539 



5, 20 



541 



5. 22 



548 



639, 540' 



. 537 



564, 



569, 571 



115,147 



43 



531 



531 



532 



488 



756, 757 



457, 569 



. 646 



. 485 



649, 661 



. 537 



. 494 



. 61 



. 561 



77 



. 569 



. 669 



547, 669 



. 436 



. 53G 




798 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1900. 



. 618, 620 



... 617 



. . 80-82 



149, 457, 458 



... 149 



. . . 473 



687, 741, 742 



632, 659, 671 



... 669 



... 575 



. . 539 



487, 488 



. . 516 



484, 485, 489, 546 

 . • 62 

 . . 501 



485, 488, 490, 

 546, 666 



Polyga]ace?e, .... 666 

 Polygonaceio, . . . . 664 

 Polygonatum, . . 485, 664 

 Polvgonum, 646, 652, 659, 664 

 Polvgyra, 113, 115-133, 



449-454, 556 

 388, 389 



Plethodon, . 



Pletlioflontidse, 



Pleurobema, 



Pleurocera, . 



Pleuroceratidse, 



PJeurosigma, 



Ploiaria, 



Pluchea, 



Plumbaginacese 



Plutoma, 



Podophthalmidae, 



Podophyllum, 



Poecilia, . 



Pogonia, . 



Polychreta, . 



Polydactylus, 



Polygala 



Polygyratia, 



Polymita. 



Polynemidre, 



Polynemus, . 



Polypodiacca^, 



Pomacentridio, 



Pomaccutrus, 



Pontederia, . 



Populus, . 



Porpeia, . 



Primulacerc, 



Privatula, 



Proserpinaoea, 



Proslhecliua, 



Prosthesima, 



Protoglyptus, 



Prunus, 



Psammobia, 



Pseudocheiliuu: 



Pseudochromid 



Pseudocliromis, 



Pseudodon, . 



Pseudoscorpionida, 



530, 



045, 649, 

 480, 



. 100 

 . 501 

 . 501 

 . 661 

 520, 527 

 . 603 

 . 549 

 . 485 

 . 731 

 . 668 

 . 606 

 . 546 

 540 

 531 

 393 

 666 

 481 

 521 

 523 

 523 

 84 

 543 



Pteri.?, . . . 483, 649, 661 



Pterois, 522 



Ptilimnium, 643, 646, 652, 



654, 668 

 Ptychobranchus, ... 79 



Puffinus, 156 



Punctura, . .115, 148, 575 

 Pupa, 94, 427, 428, 573, 



576, 577, 583-608 

 Pupida, 133, 564. 571, 



573, 576, 583 



Pupi.na, 578 



Pupoides, 426, 428, 456, 



573, 585-590, 605 

 Putorius, .... 44, 751 

 Pyramidula, 113, 115, 116, 



147, 148, 457 



Pyrola, . 

 Quadrula, 

 Quercus, 



350 



485, 488 

 . . 82, 83 

 484, 645- 



649, 664 

 . 34 

 . 666 

 . 666 

 . 329 

 . 571 

 . 514 



576, 577 

 . 517 

 . 473 



549, 668 

 . 498 



569, 



Rangifer, 



Kanunculacea?, 



Kanunculus, 



Raj)histoma, 



Rathousiidoe, 



Ranzania, 



Realiida?, 



Remora, . 



Rlial)douema, 



Rhexia, . 



Rhinoscopelus, 



Rhipidoglossa, 



Rhizosolenia, 



Rhodostotliia, 



Rhoicosphenia, 



Rhus, 643, 645-647, G49, 



652, 657, 659, 660, 667 

 Rhyncospora, 485, 488, 



548, 654, 663 

 Rhytididie, . . 564, 572 



Rissa 5, 12 



Roinerolajxu?, .... 462 

 Rosa, 646-648, 652, 657, i^C^S 



Rosacea\ 666 



Rubiacea}, 669 



Rubus, . . 483, 484, 645, 6C^6 



i; 



576 

 467 

 151 

 473 




1900.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



799 



Kumex, 664 



Rumina.. 567 



Ruucinia, 537 



Ruppia, .... 658, 661 

 Sabbatia, 483, 549, 643, 



653, 654, 669 



■Sagina, 665 



Saitis, 540 



Salacia, 730 



Salarias, .... 517, 518 

 Salicornia, 653, 659, 660, 665 



Salmo, 498 



Salsola, . 639, 640, 657, 



659, 660, 665 

 Sauguiholaria, .... 480 

 Sauicula, . . . 485, 488 



Sardinella, 519 



Sassafras, . . 647, 649, 666 



Saurida, 498 



Savastana, . . . . . 662 



Saxicola, 4 



Scarichthys, . . . . 511 

 Scaridse, .... 511, 527 

 Scams, . . . 510, 512, 527 

 Scliizsea, .... 548, 549 



Sciiena, 501 



-Bcisenus, 526 



Scirpus, . 643, 646, 651, 

 652, 656, 663 

 Sciuropterus, . . . . 462 

 Scleria, . 484, 486, 488, 489 

 Scolithus, . . . 165, 329 



Scolodonta, . 



Scomber, 



Scorptena 



Scorpsenenopsis, 



Scorpaenidse, 



Scorpionida, 



Scrophulariacet 



Scutalus, 



Scutelaria, . 



Sebastopistes, 



Sebastopsis, . 



Selenites, 



Selenitida), " . 



Semele, . 



Senecio, . 



. 385 

 . 501 



515, 521 

 . 515 



515, 521 

 . 541 

 . 669 

 . 392 



486, 488 

 . 515 



515, 521 

 . 564 

 . 564 

 . 480 

 . 486 



556- 



Sergiolus, ' 



Sericocarpus, .... 

 Serranidse, . . . 502, 

 Sesuvium, 640, 659, 660, 

 Sieglingia, . . 646, 659, 

 Sigmurethra, . 563, 564, 



569- 

 Simorhynchiis, .... 

 Sisyrinchium, .... 



Slum, 



Smilax, . 485, 488, 549, 



648, 649, 



SolanacejB, 



Soletelliua, 



Solidago, 342, 483, 487, 



549, 641, 643, 645, 646, 



649, 659, 

 Soraateria, . 

 Somolus, 

 Sonorella, 

 Sorex, 

 Sparidre, . 

 Sparosomus, . 

 Spartiua, . 65 

 Spelerpes, . 

 Spermophilus, 

 Spermophora, 

 Sj)h?eronycteris, 

 Sphemides, [ . 

 Sphyrsena, . 

 Sphyr£euidse, 

 Spiropalpus, 

 Squatarola, . 

 Statice, . 

 StaurodoD, . 

 Stauroneis, . 

 Slenogyra, . 

 StenogyridaB, 

 Steuotrema, . 

 Stephauoda, 

 Stercorarius, 

 Stereoplioedusa, 

 Sterkia, . 

 Sterna, 

 Stethojulis, . 

 Stictodiscus, 

 Stolephorus, 



531 



484 

 527 

 665 

 662 



572 



7 



483 



668 



663 

 669 

 480 



657-660, 

 613, 616 



501, 

 501, 



8, 



431, 



96 

 95, 



152, 



14. 



671 

 16 

 668 

 -560 

 43 

 502 

 502 

 662 

 -620 

 , 43 

 531 

 759 

 514 

 520 

 520 

 533 

 22 

 669 

 433 

 473 

 , 98 

 561 

 449 

 387 

 156 

 677 

 606 

 152 

 508 

 729 

 497 




00 



PEOCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



468-471, 



Stolidoma, 



Streptaxidie, 385, 564, 571, 



Strix, 



Strobilops, 



Strophocheilus, 389-391, 



394, 



Strophostyles, . 640, 641, 



643, 646, 649, 659, 

 Stylommatophora, . 



Suseda, 



Subulina, 



Succiaea, 94, 95, 97, 99, 



102, 149, 570, 575, 

 Succineidee, 149, 561, 564, 

 Synedra, 

 Syne ma, 

 Syngnatliidre, 

 Syngnathus, 

 Surirella, 

 Synodontidie, 

 Synodus, 

 Tsenioglossa, 

 Tagelus, . 

 Tarsi us, . 

 Taxeodonta, 

 Taxodium, . 

 Tegenaria, . 

 Tellina, . . 

 Tellinacea, . 

 Terpsinoii, . 

 Terpsinoea?, . 

 Testacellida', 

 Tetradou, 

 Telradraohmuin 

 Tetraguatha, 

 TetragnatliidiT}, 

 Tetraodoutida^ 

 Teucriuin, , 

 Teutaua, 

 Teuthidid.T, 

 Teuthis, . 

 Thalarctos, . 

 Thallassoma, 

 Thauatidius, 

 Thauatus, 

 Thargalia, . 

 Thelypteris, . 



480, 

 143, 



480, 



478, 687, 



564, 



. 503, 



514, 

 646, 657, 



98 

 572 

 153 

 133 



564 



666 



562 



657 



96 



576 

 571 

 477 

 537 

 519 

 519 

 477 

 497 

 497 

 576 

 481 

 423 

 383 

 350 

 532 

 481 

 480 

 732 

 687 

 571 

 528 

 520 

 536 

 536 

 528 

 669 

 533 

 513 

 513 

 44 

 510 

 539 

 537 

 532 

 651 



Therapliosidse, 

 Theridiidfe, . 

 Theridium, . 

 Theridula, . 

 Thoraisidte, . 

 Thyrsoidea, . 

 Thysa, 

 TibeUus, . . 

 Tiedemannia, 

 Tillaadsia, 

 Tissa, . 

 Tmarsus, 

 Tofiedia, 

 Torix, 

 Tornatellina, 



653, 659, 



95, 96 

 573, 

 Torquilla, 

 Tracheopulmonata, 

 Trachurops, . 

 Triadeiium, . 652, 654, 667 

 Triceratium, 478, 690, 721, 



727-739 

 Trientalls, 668 



[1900. 



. 530 

 530, 533 

 . 533 

 . 533 

 . 536 

 . 494 

 . 457 

 . 537 

 . 668 

 . 651 

 665 

 537 

 547 

 50, 67-69 

 98, 



576, 578 

 . 596 

 . 562 

 . 501 



660, 



4, 5 



Tnnaoria, 



Triuga, . 



Tritogouia, . 



Trochocyathus, 



Trochomorpha, . 



Trochosa, 



Tryngites, . 



Typha, . . . 



Typhlotritou, . 



Tyrannnpha^dusa, 



Uloborida^ 



I'lobonis, 



Umbellifera? 



Unio, 



CTnionida^, 



Upeuoides, 



Upeucus, 



Uria, . 



Urocoptida^, 



Urodorma, 



X^triculavia, 



51, 



659, 



. . 739 



24-26, 154 



. . 78 



436, 437 



92, 576, 578 



539 



24 



661 



. 620 



. 676 



. 535 



. 535 



. 668 



7<;-84 



74 



. 520 



520, 526 



6 



564, 571 



756-758 



548. 549 



Vacciniuin, 484, 546, 645, 



647, 668 

 Vallisiicria, 657 




1900.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



801 



Valloniidse, . 

 Xampyrops, 

 Van Heurckia, 

 Yasopulmonata, 

 Yejovis, . 

 Verbena, 

 Verbenacese, 

 Vernonia, 

 Veronicellid?e, . 

 Vertigo, 97, 98, 



Vertigopsis, 

 Vertilla, . . . 

 Vespertilio, . 

 Vesperus, 

 Viburnum, 485, 

 Viola, 483, 485, 

 Vitacese, 



Vitis, . . 649, 

 Vitrea, 93, 115, 

 149, 

 Vitrinizonites, . 



. . 564 



. . 756 



. . 473 



562, 564 



530, 541 



654, 669 



. . 669 



341, 342, 486 



... 571 



133, 583, 



596, 608 



... 607 



... 610 



... 757 



T 5 ^ 



488,' 649, 670 



486, 488, 489 



... 667 



651, 659, 667 



138-140, 



150, 384, 456 



113, 115, 137 



Vulpes 46 



Willughboea, . . 649, 671 

 Xanthium, . . 640, 657, 671 



Xema, 12 



Xyridaceie, 663 



Xyns, . . . 485, 488, 663 



Xysticus, 536 



Zanclidae, 513 



Zanclus, 513 



Zaptyx, 672 



Zonites, 150 



Zonitidffi, 134, 564, 569, 



571, 578 

 Zonitoides, 113, 115, 140, 



141, 384, 385 

 Zonotrichia, .... 33 



Zora, 

 Zoropsidse 

 Zostera, . 

 Zygoballus, 

 Zygo ceres, 



529, 532 

 . 532 

 . 661 

 . 540 



690, 740 




802 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1900. 



GENERAL INDEX. 

 1900. 



Additions to Museum, 780. 



Ashhurst, John, Jr., M.D., an- 

 nouncement of death of, 441. 



Baker, Frank C. A review of 

 the Physic of Xortheastern 

 Illinois, 379, 412. 



Banks, Nathan. Arachnida 

 from Alabama, 378, 529. 



Biological and Microscopical 

 Section, report of, 771. 



Botanical Section, report of, 

 773. 



Boyer, Charles S. The Bid- 

 dulphoid forms of North 

 American Diatomacete, 339, 

 685. Report of the Bio- 

 logical and Microscopical Sec- 

 tion, 771. 



Brown, Arthur Erwin. A re- 

 view of the genera and species 

 of American Snakes north of 

 Mexico, 684. 



Brown, Stcwardson. Report 

 of the Conservator of the 

 Botanical Section, 774. 



Burgin, Caroline A. Edible 

 and poisonous mushrooms, 

 684. 



Calvert, Rhilip P., Ph.D., ap- 

 pointment on Committee on 

 Publication, 380. 



Camar, "William, M.D., an- 

 nouncement of death of, 380. 



Carter, Oscar C. S. Petrified 

 forest and cave-dwellings of 

 Arizona, 684. 



Chapman, Henry C, M.D. 

 Respiratory quotient and loss 

 in volume of expired air, 379 

 Observations on the anatomy 

 of Hylobates leuciscus and 

 Chiromys raadagascariensis, 

 412, 4i4. Report of Cura- 

 tors, 767. 



Cockerell, T. D. A. Descrip- 

 tions of new bees collected by 

 Mr. H. H. Smith in Brazil,. 

 I, 87, 356. 



Cockerell. T. D. A., and Wil- 

 matte Porter. A new cray- 

 fish from New Mexico, 425, 

 437. 



Committees, Standing, 1. 



Couchological Section, report of, 

 771. 



Corresponding 

 port of, 763. 



Coues, Elliott, 

 of death of, 2. 



Council for 1901, 779. 



Curator of AVilliam S. 

 Collections, report of. 



Curators, report of, 767. 



Dall, William H. Additions 

 to the insular land -shell 

 fauna of the Pacific coast, 

 especially of the Galapagos 

 and Cocos Islands (^ Plate 

 VIII ), 87, 88. 



Elections during 1900, 779. 



England, James B. , announce- 

 ment of death of, 87. 



Secretary, re- 



announcement 



Vaux 

 70. 




1900.] 



NATURAL SCIENX'ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



803 



Entomological Section, report 

 of, 772. 



Fowler, Henry W. Notes on 

 Ameiurus prosthistius, 339, 

 352. Contributions to the 

 iclatliyolosry of the tropical 

 Pacific (Plates XVIII, XIX, 

 XX), 491, 493. 



Goldsmith, Edward. A col- 

 lapsing crater, 424. 



Hamilton, S. Harbert. Re- 

 marks on water analysis, 378. 



Harshberger, John W., Ph.D. 

 History of botany in Phila- 

 delphia, 339. An ecological 

 study of the New Jersey 

 strand flora, 492, 623. 



Harvey, F. L., announcement 

 of death of, 339. 



Hayden Geological ^Memorial 

 Fund, modification of trust, 

 340. 



Holman, D. Shepherd. Sound- 

 waves, 380. 



Index to Genera, 790. 



Keeley, Frank J. Motion of 

 diatoms, 339. 



Keller, Ida A. Notes on Hya- 

 cinth roots (Plate XIII), 

 424, 438. 



Kellogg, Vernon L., and Shin- 

 kai I. Kuwana. ^lallophaga 

 from Alaskan birds (Plate 

 VII), 2, 151. 



Krauth, Charles P., announce- 

 ment of death of, 2. 



Librarian, report of, 764. 



Lyman, Benjamin Smith. The 

 Raubsville Cave, 464. 



MacElwee, Alexander. Flora 

 of AYillow Grove and the 

 Edgehill Ridge, 412, 462. 



Mackellar, Thomas, announce- 

 ment of death of, 2. 



Meehan, Thomas. Contribu- 

 tions to the life history of 

 plants. No. XIV, 339, 341. 



Appointment to prepare bio- 

 graphical notice of Charles E. 

 Smith, 412, 612. Report of 

 Botanical Section, 773. 



:Miller, Adolph W. Zoologi- 

 cal and botanical gardens of 

 Paris and Germany, 612. 



Milne-Edwards, Alphonse, an- 

 nouncement ot death of, 380. 



Mineralogical and Geological 

 Section, report of, 776. 



]Mivart, St. George, announce- 

 ment of death of, 378. 



Montgomery, Thomas H. Re- 

 cent studies of the Gordi- 

 acese, 2. 



Moore, Clarence B. Certain 

 antiquities of the Florida 

 West Coast, 441, 442. 



Moore, J. Percy. A descrip- 

 tion of Microbdella bian- 

 nulata with especial regard 

 to the constitution of the 

 Leech somite (Plate VI), 2, 

 50. Notes on some post- 

 larval changes in the verte- 

 bral articulation of Spelerpes 

 and other Salamanders, 491, 

 613. 



Morris, Charles. Subterranean 

 waters, 340, 412. 



Museum, additions to, 780. 



Nolan, Edward J., M.D. Re- 

 port of Recording Secretary, 

 760. Report of Librarian, 

 ■ 764. 



Officers, Councillors and Mem 

 bers of the Committee on Ac- 

 counts for 1901, 778. 



Ornithological Section, report 



of, 776. 

 Ortmann, A. E. Crustacea 

 and Pyncogonida collected 

 during the Princeton Arctic 

 Expedition of 1899, 749. 

 Palmer, T. C, and F. J. Kee- 

 ley. The structure of the 




804 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Diatom girdle (Plates XV, 

 XVI), 425, 465. 

 Pilsbry, Henry A. Notes on 

 the anatomy of the Helicid 

 genus Ashmunella, 87, 107. 

 Mollusca of the Great Smoky 

 Mountains, 8V, 110. Note's 

 on some Southern Mexican, 

 shells, 339. New South 

 American land snails (Plates 

 XI-XII),340,385. Notice of 

 new Japanese land snails, 3'il. 

 Note on Australian Pupida-, 

 425, 426. Note on Polyne- 

 sian and East Indian Pupidic, 

 431. Additions to the Japan- 

 ese land-snail fauna, No. II 

 (Plate XIV), 441, 443. 

 Notes on certain ^Mollusca 

 from Southwestern Arkansas, 



441, 449. On the zoologi- 

 cal position of Partula and 

 Achatniella (Plate XVII), 



442, 561. Lower California 

 species of Coelocentrum and 

 Berendtia, 464, 550. Sono- 

 rella, a new genus of Helices 

 (Plate XXI), 491, 556. 

 The genesis of Mid-Pacific 

 faunas ^ Plates XXII, 

 XXIII), 491, 568. Addi- 

 tions to the Japanese land- 

 snail fauna, III (Plates 

 XXIV, XXV), 612, 672. 

 Crustacea from the Creta-. 

 ceous formation of New Jer- 

 sey, 749. Report of Con- 

 chological Section, 772. 



Pilsbry, Henry A. , and Edward 

 G. Vanatta. A partial re- 

 vision of the Pupa} of the 

 United States, 491, 582. 



Piatt, Franklin, announce- 

 ment of death of, 442. 



Rammelsberger, Carl F., an- 

 nouncement of death of, 2. 



[1900. 



Rand, Theodore T>. Notes on 

 the geology of Southeastern 

 Pennsylvania, 1 60. Report 

 of Mineralogical and Geologi- 

 cal Section, 776. 



Rankin, Walter M. Report 

 on the Echinoderms collected 

 off the west coast of Green- 

 land by the Princeton Arctic 

 Expedition of 1899, 750. 



Recording Secretary, report 

 of, 760. 



Rehn, James A. G. Notes on 

 Chiroptera, 755. 



Report of the Biological and 

 5licroscopical Section, 771. 



Report of Botanical Section, 

 773. 



Report of the Corfchological 

 Section, 771 



Report of Corresponding Secre- 

 tary, 763. 



Rejwrt of the Curator of tiie 

 William S. Vaux Collections, 

 770. 



Report of Curators, 767. 



Report of Entomological Sec- 

 tion, 772. 



Report of Librarian, 764. 



Report of the ^lineralogical 

 and Geological Section, 776. 



Report of the Ornithological 

 Section, 776. 



Report of the Recording Secre- 

 tary, 760. 



Rhoads, Samuel N. A new 

 weasel from Western Pennsyl- 

 vania, 749, 751. 



Roberts, Charles, election as 

 member of Council, 412. 



Sangree, Ernest B., M.D., an- 

 nouncement of death of, 87. 



Sargent, Annie Bell. Pre- 

 liminary notes on the rate of 

 growth and on the develop- 

 ment of instincts in Spiders 

 (Plates IX, X\ 340, 395. 




1900.] 



XATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



805 



Saunders, C. F. The pine bar- 

 rens of New Jersey, 2, 544. 



Sharp, Benjamin, M.D. Re- 

 port of Corresponding Secre- 

 tary, 763. 



Shufeldt, R. W. On tlie oste- 

 ology of Vulpes macrotis, 

 413, 425. Osteology of the 

 Psittaci, 684. 



Simpson, Charles T. New and 

 unfigured Unionid?e (Plates 

 I-V), 74. 



Skinner, Henry, M.D. Pro- 

 tective mimicry in insects, 

 684. Report of Entomologi- 

 cal Section, 772 



Smith, Charles E., announce- 

 ment of death of, 379 



Standing Committees, 1. 



Staudinger, Otto, announce- 

 ment of death of, 684. 



Stone, Witmer. Report on the 



birds and mammals collected 

 by the INIcIlhenny Expedition 

 to Pt. Barrow, Alaska, 4. 

 Description of a new Rabbit 

 from Liu Kiu Islands and a 

 new Flying Squirrel from 

 Borneo,* 442, 460. Report 

 of Ornithological Section, 776. 



Tasker, Stephen P. M.» an- 

 nouncement of death of, 339. 



Yaughan, T. Wayland. Tro- 

 chocyathus Woolmani, a new 

 coral from the Cretaceous of 

 New Jersey, 378, 436. 



Von Ihering, H. The Musculus 

 cruciformis of the Order Tel- 

 linacea, 441, 480. 



Williams, Edward H., 

 nouncement of death of, 



Wister, William "Wynne, 

 announcement of death 

 413. 



an- 

 2. 



Jr., 



of, 



52 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1900. 



^f^f^' 





SIMPSON. NEW AND UNFIGURED UNIONID^. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. .SCI. PHI LA. \9nr). 



SIMPSON. NEW r.^u UNFIGURED UNIONID.^. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1900. 



PLATE III. 







KO^^ 







SIMPSON. NEW AND UNFIGURED UNIONID^ 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1900. 





SIMPSON. NEW AND UNFIGURED UNIONID.^. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1900. 



SIMPSON. NEW AND UNFIGURED UNIONID^. 





PROC. ACAD. N'AT. SCI. PHILA. lOnn 



MOORE. MICROBDELLA BIANNULATA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1900. 



PLATE VII. 





KELLOGG AND KUVVANA. MALLOPHAGA FROM 

 ALASKAN BIRDS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1900. 



PLATE VIII. 



^ 1 



W^ 





6 7 



DALL. PACIFIC INSULAR LAND-SHELL FAUNAS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1900. 



PLATE IX. 



SARGENT. DEVELOPMENT OF SPIDERS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1900. 



PL.-\TE X. 



750 D 



A. 2. S. del. 



SARGENT. DEVELOPMENT OF SPIDERS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1900. 



PILSBRY. SOUTH AMERICAN LAND SNAILS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 190r. 



PLATE Xir. 



PILSBRY. SOUTH AMERICAN LAND SNAILS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1900. 



PLATE XIII. 



KELLER. HYACINTH ROOTS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1900 



PLATE XIV. 



PILSBRY. JAPANESE LAND SNAIL FAUNA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1900. 



PLATE XV. 



z 



X 



X 



D 



X 



3 b' 



\'^'^ Sr'> r 



r.:::. ::.-.'. 



t-: 



^ 



s 



6 f 



7 



a 



8 



C. i.rus^^U 



de.i . 



PALMER AND KEELEY. GIRDLE OF DIATOMS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1900. 



PLATE XVI. 



PALMER AND KEELEY. GIRDLE OF DIATOMS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT, SCI. PHILA. 1900. 



PLATE XVII. 



7a 



PILSBRY. ZOOLOGICAL POSITION OF PARTULA and ACHATINELLA. 





4 



n 



V 

 & 



V 



L'^l 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1900. 



PLATE XIX. 





-■iiS^ 



FOWLER. ICHTHYOLOGY OF THE TROPICAL PACIFIC. 



STOLEPHORUS PURPUREUS Fowl 

 SYNODUS SHARPl Fowler. 

 HEMIRAMPHUS DEPAUPERATUS I 

 MUGIL CALDWELLI FOWLER. 

 FIERASFER PARVIPINNIS Ikaup). 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1900. 



PLATE XX. 



FOWLER. ICHTHYOLOGY OF THE TROPICAL PACIFIC. 



HEMIPTERONOTUS OOPEI FOWLER. 

 OVOIDES OPHYRUS (cope). 

 BROTULA TOWNSENDI FOWLER. 

 SPHEROIDES FLOREALIS (COPe), 

 CARACANTHUS MACULATUS (grav). 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1900. 



PLATE XXI. 



>.- rh 



T.otT. 



M- 



30 " " -5 '•* 



.Sp.C 



p.T- ,y 



e.^ / 





PILSBRy DEL. 



PILSBRY. SONORELLA. 





PRDC. RCRB. NRT. SCI. FHILii. 1900. 



PLATE XXII. 



MTk 



^\ 



5 



icauaiaM^ 



8 



10 



11 



(l^anatia del.) 



PILSHRY and IZANATTA. REVISION DF PUP^l 





PRDC. ACiil], NAT. SCI PHILii. 1900. 



PLATE XXIII- 





M 



XfO ^^ 



mu 



^.. 



.-<«• 



lO 



m 





9 



11 



{Vanatta del.) 



PILSHRY and ^RNRTTR. REVISION DF FUP^E 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1900. 



PLATE XXIV. 



PILSBRY. JAPANESE LAND SNAIL FAUNA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1900. 



PLATE XXV. 



PILSBRY. JAPANESE LAND SNAIL FAUNA. 




/. 






QH Academy of Natural Sciences 



1 of Philadelphia 

 A2 Proceedings 



V.52 



Bioiogicat 

 & Mc<ii€c( 

 Serial* 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 

 CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



STORAGE 





