1^^ 





IJNiVOf 



Toronto 

 Library 



l!ii:!;i. 



, lilp:'!! 



I i i I ; 



iiii! 



1 1 . . 1 



il'i 



!';:.. ^M,!i! 



11! 



"!!;!; 









PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



Academy of Natural Sciences 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA 



VOLUiME LXI 



190; I % -' ' 



3 " 



philadelphia : 

 The Academy of Natural Sciences 



LOGAn SQUARE 



\ 

 t90y-i9io 




I 



The Academy of Natural Sciencks of Philadelphia, 



January 28, 1910. 



I hereby certify that printed copies of the Procekdings for 1909 wore 

 mailed as follows : — 



Pa(Te3 1-48 mailed March 



49-160. 

 161-192.. 

 193-224 

 225-288. 

 289-3.52. 

 353-368. 

 369^00. 

 401-456 

 457-536. 

 537-568. 

 569 



EDWARD J. NOLAN. M.D., 



Recording Secretary. 



PUBLICATION committee: 



Hexry Skinner, M.D., Wit.mer Stone, 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., William J. Fo.x:, 



Edward J. Nolan, M.D, 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., ex-officio. 



EDITOR: Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 






CONTENTS. 



For AnnonncemenlA, Repnrtf:, etc., see General Index. 



PAGE 



Banks, Nathan. Arachnida from Costa Rica (Plates V, VI) 194 



Barbour, Thomas. (Jn tlie True Status of the Clemis Caco- 



poides (Plates XVII, XVIII) 401 



Brown, Stewardson. Notes on the Flora of the Bermudas . 48G 

 Crampton, G. C, Ph.D. A Contril)ution to tiie Comparative 



.Morphology of the Thoracic Sclerites of Insects (Plates 



I, II, III, IV) 3 



Fowler, Hknry \V. A new Species of Fish of the Genus 



Atopichthys, with Notes on New Jei-sey Fishes 406 



Harshberger, John W.. Ph.D. Action of Chemical Solutions 



on Bud DevelojMiient : An Exj)erimental Study of 



Acclimatization 57 



The Vegetation of the Salt Mai-shes and of the Salt and 



Fresh-water Ponds of Northern Coastal New Jei*sey. 'M'-i 



Kkklkv, F. J, Microscopical Image Formation 177 



Ly.man, Benjamin Smith. Scolithus linearis liurrows with 



Orifice Complete (Plate N) 296 



MoNTiio.MKRY. Thomas H., Jr., Pli.D. On the Spinnerets, 



("rihellum, Colulus, Trachea' and Lung Books of Arancads 



(Plates XI, XII, XHI, NIV) 299 



Further Studies on the Activities of Arancads. 1! Fi\S 



MooRK, J. Pi;h( V, Ph.D. Polychietous Annelids from .Monterey 



BayandSan Diego, California (Plat«< VII, VIII, IN).... 2:P 



The Polycha-tous Annelids dredged l)y the U. S. S. "Ajha- 



tross" off the Coast of Southern California in PKll. i. 



Syllidjp, SphaTodorida', Ilesionidte and Phyllodocida' 



(Plates XV, XVI) 321 



P1L.SURV, Hknry A., Sc.D. A new Species of Scalpcllum^from 



British C<)luml)ia 367 



Unionid.'P of the Panuco River Svstem, Mexico (i'lates 



XXV, XNVI, XNVII) ' 532 



New Laud Shells from Mexico 540 




IV CONTKNTS. 



PAGK 



PiLsHRY, Hknry a., and .Iamks H. Ferriss. Mollusca of the 



Southwestern States: III. The Huachuca Mountains, 



Arizona (Plates XIX, XX, XXI) 495 



A new Sonorella from the Rincon Mountains, Arizona 



(Plate XXII) 517 



PiLSBRY, Henry A., and A. A. Hinkley. Melanida' of tiio 



Panuco River System, Mexico (Plates XXIU, XXIV) 519 



Rehn. James A. G.,and Morgan Hebard. An Orthopterologi- 



cal Reconnoissance of the Southwestern Tnited States. 



Part II: Xew Mexico and Western Texas Ill 



An C)rthopterological Reconnoissance of the Southwestern 



United States: Part III. California and Nevada 409 



Smith. Burnett. Note on the Morphology of Fulgur 369 



Verrill, a. K., and A. Hyatt Verrill. Notes on the Birds 



of San Domingo, with a List of the Species, including a 



new Hawk 352 



Young, Robert T. The Occurrence of Bufo columbiensis east 



of the Rockv Mountains 298 




PROCEEDINGS 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



PHILADELPHIA. 



i909. 



January 5. 



Philip 1\ Calvkut, Th.D., in the Chair. 



lilcvoii persons present. 



The reception of a paper intendetl f(jr pubUcation under the title 

 ''A Contribution to the Comparative Morphology of the Thoracic 

 Sclerites of In.sects," by G. C. Cranipton. Ph.D. (December 18, 1908), 

 was reporteil by the Publication Committee. 



The Council reported tliat the following Standing Committees had 

 been appointed to .serve during the ensuing year: 



Fi.VANCK.-.Iohn Cadwalader, Edwin S. Dixon, Effingham H. Morris. 

 William I). Winsor and the Treasurer. 



PuBLUATio.N.s. — Ilem-y .Skinner, M.i).. Witmer Stone, Henry A. 

 Pilsbr}', Sc.D., William .J. Fox, and Ivlward J. Nolan, M.D. 



I.inRAHY. — Dr. C. Newliii Peirce, Thoma-s Hiddle, .M.D., Thomas 

 II Icnton, M.D,, (leorgc \'aux, Jr., and Henry Tucker, .M.D. 



l.N.vrKUCTioN AND Lkctihk.s. —Benjamin Smith Lymaft. Henry A. 

 Pilsbr}', Sc.D., CharlcH Morri.s, Witmer Stone and Dr. C. Xewlin Peirce. 



CoMMiTTKE OF COUNCIL ON Hv-Laws. — Arthur Erwin Brown, Sc.D., 

 Thos. H. Fenton, M.D., John Ca<lwala«ler and Clias. H. Penrose, M.D. 




2 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan. 



The President is, ex-officio, a member of all Standing Committees. 



John W. Harshberger. Ph.D., made a communication on the 

 vegetation of the West Imlies as contrasted witli that of Mexico and 

 Central America, illustrated by lantern slides. (No abstract.) 



January 19. 

 Arthur ER"v\^N Brown, Sc.D., Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Thirty-eight persons present. 



The deaths of the follo^\^ng were announced: 



Lewis Haehnlen, a member, November 26, 1908; Joseph Wharton, 

 a member, January 11, 1909, and Jean Albert Gaudry, a correspondent, 

 November 29, 1908. 



Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., made a communication on the power of 

 flight in dragon-flies and its relation to geographical distribution, 

 illustrated by lantern slides. (No abstract.) 



The following were elected members: Charles M. B. Cadwalader, 

 George H. Clapp, Herbert Fox, M.D., Lewis W. Steinbach, M.D., and 

 William Redwood Wright. 



The following were elected correspondents: Albert Calmette, Ph.D., 

 of Lille; John Mason Clarke, LL.D., of Albany; Sven A. Hedin, Ph.D., 

 of Stockholm; Robert F. Scharff, Ph.D., of Dublin. 



The following was ordered to be printed : 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



A CONTEIBUTION TO THE COMPARATIVE MORPHOLOGY OF THE THORACIC 

 SCLERITES OF INSECTS. 



BY G. C. CRAMPTON, PH.D. 



Although the thoracic sclerites are much used factors in insect 

 classification and myology, there exists a most confusing lack of 

 uniformity in the homologizing and terminology employe<l by the 

 various writers upon these subjects. This confusion, it would appear 

 has largely arisen from the fact that each investigator has been con- 

 tent to confine his attention to one or two groups of insects, applying 

 his own terminology as occasion arose, or, more frequently, naming 

 the sclerites without sufficient comparison with intermediate forms 

 to determine their true homologies. 



As would be naturally expectetl, many new and important points 

 have been brought to Ught in each of the orders, but they stand as 

 isolated facts, rather than as generalities applying to tlie Hcxajioda 

 as a whole. It is with the purpose of applying this knowledge to 

 insects in general that a comparative morphological study has been 

 here attempted. 



Material. 



The iasects for study were collected in the United States, Europe 

 and North Africa. With these I was able, through the kin«lness of 

 Prof. K. Heymons, to compare a number of rare specimens in the 

 Jicrlin Museum, not other%vise accessible. However, in so far as was 

 possible, the commonest insects have been chosen to illustrate the 

 types discusst-ij, in order that any one wishing to verify the results 

 might li:iv«' no difficulty in procuring the necessary material. 



Technique. 



The binocular microscope was found indispensable to the iHrfonn- 

 ing of dissectioas, which were always made and studied under a 

 liquid me<lium, the rays of an artificial light Ix'ing concent rat c«l upon 

 the object l>y means of a bull's-eye condenser. Glycerine or oil prove<l 

 to be the most favorable medium for the examining of small objects, 

 since they more rea4lily remain in the position in which they are placed, 

 when a denser medium i.s used. 




4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



In studying tlio nuisculaturc to cletennine the homology of the 

 sclerites, the so-callal "Halbierungs niethode" was largely employed. 

 Usually a series of dissections was preparal, in each case an additional 

 laver of muscles being removed, beginning at the mesal surface of 

 the bisected insect. The preparations thus made were fastened upon 

 thin strips of mica, by means of photoxylin, and preserved in 80% 

 alcohol. Since both mica and photoxylin are transparent, the speci- 

 men may thus be easily studied from either side. 



Only in the case of very small insects, or when it was difficult to 

 follow the course of certain muscles, was it necessary to have recourse 

 to reconstructions from microtome sections. 



In dealing with strongly chitinized material, good preparations 

 could be obtained only by the celloidin-paraffin embedding method, 

 and even then it was frequently necessary to paint the upper face of 

 the block with a thin film of mastix collodion before cutting each 

 section. 



For general purposes, staining with Grenacher's ha^motoxylin, 

 differentiating with picric acid, and counterstaining with eosin gave 

 good results. 



Literature. 



Tlie works of Swammerdam, Linn^, and all authors before Illiger's 

 time have but little interest other than from an historic point of view. 

 On the other hand such of the later publications as those of Chabrier, 

 '20; Straus-s-Diirkheim, '28; Kirby and Spence, '28; Westwood, '39; 

 Burmeister, '32, etc., although very thorough and painstaking, are 

 too coirfusingly varied in their homologizing and terminology to have 

 any very great practical worth. 



The most scientific handling of the subject is to be found in the 

 work of Audouin, '24, upon whose researches the modern terminology 

 is based. Since the appearance of this article, but little has been 

 added to our knowledge of the comparative morphology of the thorax. 



Of the more modem publications the following were found very 

 useful in the preparation of this paper: For the homologizing of the 

 sclerites, Kleuker, '83; Kolbe, '93; Brauer, '88; Amans, '85; Borner, 

 '03; Verhoefif, '03; Janet, '98; Comstock, '02; Walton, '00, and Voss, 

 '04. For the terminology of the musculature, Luks, '83; Petri, '99; 

 Breed, '03 ; Voss, '04, and Durken, '07. For the wing venation, Adolph, 

 '80; Redtenbacher. '86; Comstock, '98, and MacGillivray, '06. 



Such of the works as are of a more particular interest will be dis- 

 cussed under those headings to which they especially refer. 




1909.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 5 



Terminology. 



The modern terminology for the thoracic sclerites is based upon the 

 epoch-making work of Aiulouin, '20. Discarding the then prevalent 

 conception of a binary division of the thorax according to the function 

 of its organs of locomotion (as, for example, the collum and pectus of 

 Knoch, 1801, the corselet and segment alif^re of Chabrier, '20, or the 

 mani- and ali-truncus of Kirby, '28) this author demonstrated that 

 the thorax is composed of three similar segments. These three he 

 designated as the pro-, meso-, and meta-thorax — terms variously 

 attributed to Kirby, Latreille and Audouin, but which appear to have 

 been first proposed by Nitzsch, '18. Nitzsch, however, used the 

 slightly different form protothorax instead of prothorax. 



Each segment Audouin considered as composed of four regions, 

 namely, a dorsal region or tergum, two flanks or "pleura?," antl a 

 ventral region called the sternum. The sternum he regarded a.s con- 

 sisting of a single piece, but for the flanks and tergum he descrilwd a 

 nvnnber of subdivisions. 



In the flank or "pleura," he recognized tiic following parts: two 

 large lateral plates, the anterior of which he termed the episternum, 

 and the posterior the epimeron; a narrovv strip along the anterior 

 margin of the episternum called the parapleuron; a small plate con- 

 taining the spiracle, calle<l the peritreme; and a triangular sderite 

 articulating with tiie coxa, calle<.l the trochantine. 



The tergum he considered as composed of four regions, lying one 

 behind the other. Beginning with the most anterior iu' trrnicd these 

 the prascutum, scutum, scutellum and postscutellum. 



Some entomologists employ the word dorsum to designate the tergal 

 region of a single segment, but it is far pref('ral)le, a.s Audouin has 

 done, If) apply this term to the whole dorsal surface of the insect. 



The expression stigma is frequently usctl as synonymous with spir- 

 acle, especially in the fJerman publications; l)ut, as used by sj'stem- 

 atists, the word stigma denotes the chitinizctl cell in the costal region 

 of the wings of certain Hymenoptera, etc. It would, therefore, be 

 preferable to use only the more exact and suital)le tcnn spiracle to 

 denote the tracheal opening. 



In most of the mo<lern works there is a very great laxity in i]w use 

 of the singular ami the plural ff)nn of the word pleura, tor example, 

 some authors sjjeak of one flank as the pleuron and both together as 

 the pleura, while others, following Audouin's example, choose the 

 latinize<l forms pleura and jtlfMini*. One cannot emi)lf)y the tcnn 

 pleura in both a singular and plural sense without creating confusion, 




6 PROCEEDINGS OK THK ACADEMY OF [.)an., 



and as the wonls are of Greek origin it would seem advisable to use 

 only the et^Tiiologieally correct forms, pleuron and pleura. 



Recently the t^rms tergite, pleurite and sternite have been use<l 

 intercliangeably with tergum, pleuron and sternum. One form of the 

 word appears to be amply sufficient for all ordinary purposes, and it 

 would be far more practical to use the term tergite for a subdivision 

 of the tergum, pleurite for a part of the pleuron, and sternite for a 

 sclerite of the sternum. Thus the praescutum, scutum, etc., would 

 be tergites, the epimeron and episternum pleurites. and so on. It is 

 in this sense that these terms have been used in the text. 



Theoretical Discussion. 



Before taking up the subdivisions of the segments in detail, a brief 

 review of the theories dealing with the formation of the thorax will serve 

 to give a clearer idea of the nature of the sclerites. 



Despite Newport's, '39, statement to the contrary, Audouin seems 

 to have regarded the thorax as consisting of but three simple seg- 

 ments. MacLeay, '30, however, and after him Newport, '39, proposed 

 that each of the pro-, meso-, and meta-thoracic segments is in reality 

 composed of four subsegments or annufi, which have become more or 

 less completely fused together in the formation of the compact, highly 

 specialized thorax. The praescutum, scutum, scutellum and post- 

 scutellum, according to this theory, are the tergal portions of the four 

 annuli, which are more closely fused in the pleural region and com- 

 pletely consolidated in the sternal region. 



Hagen, '89, on the other hand, holds the view that each segment is 

 composed not of four, but of three subsegments, each bearing a charac- 

 teristic appendage. The most anterior he terms the leg-bearing, the 

 next following the wing-bearing, and the last the spiracle-bearing 

 subs^ment. 



The more modem theories are founded upon the work of Patten, 

 '90, who claims that the thoracic segments are compose<J of but two 

 annuli. From a comparison with the nervous system of Scolopendra, 

 which he takes as a type, he concludes that in all Anthropoda the 

 neuromeres, and consequently the segments themselves, are in reality 

 double. In support of this view, he states that "in all anthropods 

 carefully studied two cross conmiissures have been found in each 

 neuromere," thas indicating the double nature of these structures. 

 Furthermore, "in Acilius the median furrow between the cross com- 

 missures is similar to that found between the successive neuromeres." 

 "In Scorpio the neuromeres are distinctly double," and in such forms 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 7 



as Juliis not only the neuromeres, but also the cardiac ostia, arteries, 

 tracheae and legs plainly show the double nature of the somites. Other 

 indications of segmental fusion are two pairs of tracheal invaginations 

 in each segment of Aciliics, the bifurcated appendages of many Crus- 

 tacea, and the bifid maxillae of insects, in which latter group monsters 

 with double pairs of legs are of frequent occurrence. 



All of the subsequent theories, though differing greatly in their 

 point of view, lay great stress upon the fusion of segments traceable 

 in the Myriopoda as an indication of what has taken place in the 

 Hexapoda. 



Banks, '93, regards the suture betv/een the episternum and epimeron 

 as the boundary between two leg-bearing subsegments. Of these, the 

 anterior or episternal subsegment, has retained its appendage fully 

 developed, while the leg of the posterior or epimeral subsegment 

 occurs only in a vestigial condition (the so-called styli found on the 

 meso-, and meta-thorax of Machilis and other ia<^ects) or is completely 

 fusefl with the episternal leg. 



Walton's, 'OO-'Ol, theory differs from that of Banks only in tlie fact 

 that he regards the epimeral leg as represented by the so-called meron 

 or posterior portion of the coxa, and in that he believes that eacii sub- 

 segment originally bore a wing. According to this author, only the 

 epimeral wing is fully developed, while that of the episternal subseg- 

 ment exists only as a wing "fundament," and is represented by the 

 squamulae, t^ulce, etc., designated under the common tcnn pterj-goda. 



Kolbe, '93, whose book appeare<^l contemporaneously with lianks', 

 '93, first publication, differs from Banks and Walton, in regarding the 

 epimeron and episternum as parts of the same segment, and in ad<lition 

 he finds traces of other "complementary" segments in such forms as 

 Locfista, (Edipodfi, etc. These complementary segments are especially 

 well developed in the larvae of Lampyris, and here show a great simi- 

 larity to the condition found in Scolopendrrlla — which Kolbe considers 

 as an intorme<liate form between the rest of the myriopcxls and insects. 



Verhoeff, '()'2-'04, accepte<l Kolbc's theory, which he enlargcxl and 

 worketl out more in detail. Believing that traces of three "Vorder- 

 seginente" or complementary segments (one in front of the pro-, meso-, 

 and meta-thorax respectively) arc to be found in such insects a.s 

 Jnpyx, Embia, etc., he proposes that the typical hcxaj^fxl thorax Is 

 composed of six primitive segments. To the " Vordersegmente" he 

 gives the names micro-, steno- and cr>'pto-thorax. Of these, the 

 microthorax (the complementary segment in front of the prothorax) 

 is the best developed, and occurs in a large number of insects. In 




8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [lail., 



Japyx, etc., between each chief segment and its corresponding " Vonler- 

 s^raent," and also in front of each Vordersegment, are found certain 

 minute sclerites which Verhoeff interprets as the remains of two 

 "intercalar}'" segments!. Under these conditions, each of the three 

 conmionly accept^ thoracic regions would in reality be composed of 

 four subsegments (i.e.. a chief and a complementary segment, each with 

 its correspomling intercalary segment), thus giving a total of twelve 

 subsegments for the thorax as a whole. 



In this connection it may be remarked that Banks, '04, is entirely 

 incorrect in stating that his theory is supported by the views of \'er- 

 hoeff. In reality the two arc not at all alike, for, while Banks con- 

 siders that the epimeron and episternum represent two annuli, Verhoeff 

 expressly states that these two sclerites are parts of one and the same 

 segment, in front of which he finds the additional so-callal com{)le- 

 mentaiy and intercalary segments. 



If then, with Banks, we consider the epimeron and episternum as 

 representing two subsegments, a combination of Banks' and Verhoeff 's 

 theories would give five subsegments in each thoracic region, or a total 

 of fifteen for the entire thorax. On the other hand, if MacLeay's, '30, 

 contention, that the praescutum, scutum, scutellum and postscutellum 

 represent four annuli, be correct, a combination of this with Verhoeff 's 

 theor\' would raise the total number of thoracic subsegments to twenty- 

 one. This reductio ad absurdum only serves to show to what extremes 

 it may lead if we regard each of the sclerites which chance to be serially 

 arranged as the remaias of a vestigial segment. Then, too, in view 

 of the marked tendency toward the formation of separate chitinous 

 plates which, as will be later discasse<l, takes place largely through 

 mechanical causes, and for the most part without reference to any 

 segmental arrangement, one cannot be too cautious in attributing to 

 them a segmental value. 



While it mast be aflmitted that the "compound-segment" theory 

 is a most attractive and not wholly groundless one, the following 

 serious objections to the above cited theories may be made. Thus, 

 the mere occurrence of four regioas in the tergum, or the fact that the 

 pleuron is divided into epimeron and episternum, is not sufficient proof 

 that the segment is compound, since such divisions frequently occur 

 from purely mechanical causes, and wholly without reference to any 

 segmental arrangement — as, for example, the division of each segment 

 into tergum, pleura and sternum. 



Again, one should not lay too great stress upon the conditions found 

 in Myriopoda as an indication of what has occurred in Insecta. A 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 9 



similar mode of life frequently leads to a remarkable convergence in 

 structure, which would, however, have no value in a genetic homolo- 

 gization. Furthermore, it must be borne in mind that insects are not 

 descended from myriopods, but that recent Myi'iopoda, Crustacea, 

 Insecta, etc., are groups of equal rank; and modifications in any direc- 

 tion may occur in each of the groups, quite independently of wliat 

 occurs in any of the others. 



Patten's argument, that the presence of two cross commissures in 

 each neuromere is indicative of its double nature, loses its force when 

 we consider that in many iasects the last abdominal ganglion — which 

 is regarded as the fusion product of a number of neuromeres — likewise 

 contaias but two cross commissures; whereas, if Patten's argument 

 were correct, there should be as many commissures present as tiierc arc 

 neuromeres entering into its composition. With regard to the bifur- 

 cated maxillx' of insects, it would appear far more rea.sonable to exj)lain 

 this condition as a secondary development, rather than the persistence 

 of a primitive condition in such highly specialized appendages as the 

 mouth parts; and Patten's other argument, that iasect abnormalities 

 with double paii-s of legs are of frequent occiuTence, has no weight 

 when one considers the fact that there are likewise many vertebrate 

 monsters with double appendages — yet no one considers this as a 

 reversion to the primitive condition. 



With regard to Kolbe's, '93, conclusions based upon the thorax of 

 the larva of Lampyris, etc., it must be remembertMl that tlie larval 

 form by no mcaas represents the most primitive condition, but is 

 ratiier an adaptation to its mode of life, as is so well shown in the 

 hypennetaniorphosis of Silaris lnim<ralis. Again, in certain loj^idop- 

 teran larvie — Sphinx for example — it is veiy easy to observe a marked 

 tendency toward the formation of intrasegmental rings; and this sug- 

 gests that the extra constrictions in the soft larval bodies of fjintpi/n's, 

 Rfuiphidia, etc., are j)rol)al)ly some such superficial modifications, 

 esj)ecially since no indications of any subdivision is indicate<i in such 

 iiiiprirtant segmcMtai structures as the ganglia, tracheip, etc. 



Banks', '93, theory, that the meso- and metathoracic styli of Machilis 

 are rudimentary legs, has no support either fn)m an embrj'ological 

 or a structural point of view, an<l he seems to have been unaware of 

 Haa'^e's, '89, far more probable explanation of thc^e structures as 

 mcxlificd .setic. Purthermore, Horner, '03, and Ilenneguy, '04, recently 

 homologize these f)rgans with the exop»Hlite of the Crustacea, while 

 VerhoefT, '()3-'04, followiuL' Haasc, ',S9, coMipans them to the ro\al 

 organs of Myrioprxla. 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



The theory of Walton, '00, who considers the "nicron" as a vestigial 

 leg, seems likewise highly improbable. From an examination of a 

 large number of insects, it would appear that the meron is merely a 

 portion of the coxa. In such generalized forms as the Blattida?, it is 

 not at all, or only partially, distinguishable from the remainder of the 

 ooxa; but in less generalized forms, as for example the Lepidoptera, 

 it becomes more separated from the coxa, and in the highly specialized, 

 swiftly-flying Diptera it is drawn quite into the pleural region, doubt- 

 less as the result of muscular tension. 



Walton's other theory, that the pterygoda represent a pair of epi- 

 raeral wings, is fully as improbable as his meron hypothesis. The 

 pterj'goda bear absolutely no resemljlance to wings in structure or in 

 development, and, furthermore, no fossil remains show any traces of 

 more than one pair of \\ings to each thoracic segment. Walton has 

 tried to evade these facts by suggesting that the tegula?, etc., are wing 

 ^'fundaments." With regard to this supposition, all that can be said 

 is, that, so far as our present knowledge extends, the tegulae have funda- 

 mentally nothing in common with wings, and any attempt to discuss 

 what they might develop into belongs wholly to the realm of specula- 

 tion. 



If, as Patten, '90, states, two pairs of tracheal invaginations occur 

 in each segment of Acilius, this would indeed be a strong proof of seg- 

 mental fusion. In the adult Acilius, however, this is certainly not the 

 case. Embryos of this insect were not accessible, but in the embryos 

 of Chrysopa, and the far more primitive Forficula, there are no traces of 

 more than one tracheal invagination to the segment. Furthermore, 

 in all illustrations of other insect embryos that I could find, only one 

 tracheal invagination is indicated in each segment, and there are no 

 evidences of a double nature in the ganglia or any other important 

 segmental structures. 



This lack of embryological evidence is the chief argument against 

 the hypothesis of segmental fasion, and until proof more convincing 

 than that brought forward in support of the above cited theories can 

 be offered, it would seem preferable to adopt a mechanical explanation 

 — as, for example, muscular tension, etc. — to account for the origin of 

 the separate sclerites. 



In attempting to apply this thery it must be borne in mind that the 

 sclerites are not produced in a more or less haphazard fashion, as such 

 extremists as Graber seem to think, but one can trace the systematic 

 following out of a ground plan common to all three of the thoracic seg- 

 ments. 




19!)!).] XATURAb SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 1 



Lowne, '90, is quite incorrect in his statement that the prothoracic 

 sderites cannot be homologizecl with those of the other two segments, as 

 a glance at the thorax of any Blattid would have convinced him. 

 His criticism of Audouin, '20, for taking as a type so "specialized" a 

 segment as the wing-bearing one, is likewise wholly unjustified ; for 

 a comparative study can lead to no other conclusion than that the 

 segment bearing the functional wing has undergone the least modifi- 

 cation. The prothorax in many cases has been reduced to a mere 

 collar, and, indeed, Brongniart, '90, finds that in certain fossil insects 

 this segment bore a wing-like appendage which has since been lost. 

 The prothorax, then, cannot be chosen as a type, and in the segment 

 which does not bear the functional wing — as for example the meta- 

 thorax of the diptera — it is convincingly apparent that there has been 

 a great fusion and reduction of both sclerites and muscles. It is the 

 wing-bearing segment, therefore, that more nearly represents the primi- 

 tive condition, and if I^owne had not confined his attention to a special- 

 ized species of the highly specialized dipteran order, he would have seen 

 how illogical are his conclusions for insects in general, based upon so 

 m.odified a form. 



General Description. 



The Tergum. — .\s has been previously staled, the structure of the 

 prothorax is essentially the same as that of the other two segments. 

 This principle, however, may lead to a mistaken interpretation of the 

 condition exhibited in the prothoracic tergum (or the pronotum, as 

 Burmeister, '32, terms it) of certain insects. Thus most text-books 

 state that in the grasshopper's pronotiun, the ring-like areas, produced 

 by a series of transvei*sc furrows, represent the pncscutum, scutum, 

 Bcutellum and postscutellum — as is figural by Brooks, '82, for example. 

 Theoretically this sounds very plausible, but a comparison with a large 

 niunber of Saltatoria shows that these wrinklings are largely of a 

 secondaiy nature. Not only is the musculature quite ililTerent, but 

 it is likewise the ca^e that the four subdivisions of the meso- and mcta- 

 thoracic terga never occur as such regular, i)arallel rings. In addition 

 to this, in certain Acridida; (Didyophorus for example) there are even 

 more than four rings, and in some cases the transverse furrows which 

 mark off these rinirs arc interrupted, thus showing their secondary 

 character. 



Tlie pnescutum and postscutellum usually form what Kirby, '2S, 

 tenns a phragma — that is to .say an inward projecting process of the 

 tergum. Such a prawcutum or postscutellum has never been described 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [JiUl., 



f(n- the prothorax, and it woiikl appear that if such structures ever 



existeil in tiie pronotum they liavc since been lost througii reduction 



or fusion with the scutum and scutelluni. 



The Prcescutum. — As has been stated, it is impossible to distinguisii 



a praescutum in the prothorax, but in the mesothorax this sclerite is 



frequently represented by a well developed phragma (fig. 1, A'',). 



This phragma is apparently a portion of the tergum drawn inward and 



tlownward by muscular tension, and is 

 separated from the scutum by the line 

 of attachment of the intei-segmental 

 membrane, beneath which the phragma 

 projects into the body cavity. 

 f • p I \ In his earlier works Audouin did 



not distinguish between the phragma 

 and the triangular portion of the 

 scutum immediately behind it (iV2a), 



Fig. 1. — Macroxyela. — Dorsal terming both together the prsescutum. 

 STh1siMMsrol,ron'heS;: In this usage he ha.s been followed by 



gumornotum. For reference Packaixl, '98; but most authors use 

 pi^n' ^^ "'^ ^* ^""^ °^ *''^ tl^e word prjESCutum as synonymous 



with Kleuker's protophragma — in 

 other words the praescutum is only the anterior phragma of the tergal 

 region. 



The praescutum of the metathorax is frequently fused with the 

 postscutellum of the preceding segment or it may be greatly reduced. 

 On this account Kleuker, '83, terms the second phragma the deutero- 

 phragma, whether it Is composed of the mesothoracic postscutellum, 

 the metathoracic prascutum, or of both together. It would seem 

 preferable, however, to use Audouin's terminology, which is not only 

 more exact, but also has the right of priority. 



On either side of the mesothoracic praescutum of such insects as 

 Myrmeleon, Manthpa, etc., are two bridge-like plates lying just in 

 front of the ^ings, and connecting the tergum with the upper portion 

 of the episternum. These plates appear to represent the so-called 

 pr^esegmental lamella; described by Voss, '04, in the thorax of Gryllus. 

 Since these plates are not internal lamella, in most iasects, but occur 

 asually as external sclerites, they will be here referred to as the praseg- 

 mental sclerites. 



The Sculum. — The thorax of Dyliscus, which Auflouin, '24, chose as 

 his type for insects in general, is too greatly modified to show the nor- 

 mal relations of the tergal subdivisions, but fortunately Audouin, '32, 

 has given a more serviceable description in his translation of MacLeay's 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 13 



article on Polistes. By comparing the thorax of Polistcs with that of 

 certain other less specialized Hymenoptera, such for example as 

 Macroxyela, Tenthredo, etc.. in which the mesonotum has retained a 

 comparatively primitive condition, it is an ea.sy matter to apply 

 Audouin's tenninology to insects in general. 



In the mesothorax of Macroxyela, Chrysopa, Myrmeleon, etc., tlie 

 portion of the tergiim just behind the prsescutum is composed of two 

 regions : a median portion triangular in shape, with its apex directed 

 eaudad (fig. l,.V2a),and a larger portion surrounding the fii-st laterally 

 and posteriorly (iVjb). The triangular median region of the scutum 

 may be termed the mediscutum, and the remainder the parapsido- 

 scutum (from MacLeay's, '30, parapsides, appUed to two pieces sepa- 

 rated off from this region in Polistes). 



In his description of Dytiscus, Audouin regards the me<liscutum as 

 part of the praescutum, while in his translation of MacLeay's work he 

 speaks of the region corresponding to the mediscutum as the scutum 

 proper, and likewise reckorts the parapsides to the scutellar region. 

 The latter division is the only natural one, and has consequently been 

 adopted in this discussion. 



In the Hymenoptera, one can trace an extremely interesting series 

 of changes in the scutellar region of the mesothorax. Thus, if one 

 examine the thorax of Macroxyela, Ahia, Odyncrus and Chrysis, in the 

 order given, it will be seen that the apex of the triangular maliscutum 

 (figs. 1 and 2, Njg^) becomes gradually lengthened out, and pushes 

 through that portion of the parapsidoscutum (A''2b) behind it until it 

 reaches the scutellum (A''3). Its sides then begin to open out, and 

 become nearly parallel. By this ^.^^ 



process the formerly triangular 

 mediscutum assumes a rectangular 

 fonn (fig. 2, iVja), and divides the 

 parapsidoscutiim into two widely sepa- ' 



rattnl halves {N^b and A',b), the parap- \ 



sides of Maclveay, '30. \i 



As shown by .Macdillivray, '06. the 

 wing veins of the Xyelida; show that 

 this family is the most generalize*! of 'viet'^f u,c Vy-smiu.rax^^A 

 the Ilvmonoptera. Consequently tlin rompnrison with fip. 1 .sliows 



thorax of Macroxyela is more prunitive ,„^., ,,„,, „,ro„Kh ,hr pnr- 

 than that of Polistes — an opinion which ap^'idos(•utulll (.\",i.) nud di- 

 c I t „ • -ii vifled it into tlio tw(» "pur- 



IS confirmeil by a comparison with cer- apsides" (.\" ,», and .\" ,b). 



tain lower insects, such a.s Myrmdcon, 



etc. If this be true, one is justified in assuming that the "parapsides' 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



of Polisles are but portions of the mesothoracic parapsidoscutum. 

 MacLeay's suggestion, that the mesothoracic parap.sides are but the 

 prothoracic paraptera(!) pushetl back from their original position, 

 must, therefore, be regarded as entirely untenable. 



The parapsidoscutum is very closely connected with the organs of 

 flight ; and indeed its caudal portion appeal's to merge into the mem- 

 branous anal region of the wing. 



Along the sides of the scutum lie a mrniber of small plates which are 

 usuall}- free, but may be more or less fused with one another or with 

 the scutum. Jurine, '20, has described six of these for Hymenoptera, 

 but only three are of particular importance. The firet of these is found 

 at the base of the costal region of the wing, and has been termed the 

 antesigmoid by Amans, '85; the second, which Amans terms the 

 "piece quadrilatere" (sigmoid), is situated at the base of the median 

 region of the ^^■ing; and the third or doi-so-terminal lies at the base of 

 the anal region of the wing. The structure and mechanism of these 

 sclerites has been describe<l in detail by Amans, '85, and Voss, '04, 

 and need not, therefore, be further discussed here. 



In addition to the above-mentioned sclerites, there occur two plates 

 (one at the base of each wing) which have been variously termed 

 squaemula, tegula, paraptera, pteiygoda, etc. Of these terms, La- 

 treille's, '20, "pterygodes" or pterygoda appears to have the right of 

 priority, and on this account has been here adopted. In Grj/llus, Voss, 

 '04, has described a structure which lie teniis a " Hautpolster," but does 

 not compare it with other insects. This structure is beyond a doubt 

 homologous with the pterj^goda, and bears the characteristic haii-s. 

 In the Trichoptera, although still somewhat "rolster"-Uke, it is more 

 strongly chitinized, and in the Hymenoptera it forms a horny scale, 

 covering the base of the wing. In certain Lepidoptera the pterygoda 

 are greatly developed and are deiLsely beset with haii"s. Westwood, 

 '39, has confiLsed these with the patagia of the Lepidoptera, but they 

 are doubtless quite different structures. 



The Sculellum. — Behind the scutal region lies a small, medianly- 

 situated scutellum (fig. 1, N^). In form it may be somewhat semi- 

 circular, oval, shield- or we<lge-shaped. In the latter case its anterioi- 

 end is embedde<i in the parapsidoscutum. Its posterior margin is 

 usually drawn out into a narrow strip on either side, and is continued 

 in the posterior margin of the anal region of the wing. This character 

 is frequently very aseful in determining the boundaries between tlie 

 mesoscutellum and.phragma, or to distinguish[the mesoscutellum from 

 the metanotum when these are partially fused . 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15 



Voss, '04,. appears to consider the scutellum as part of the scutal 

 region, and terms it the "unpaares mittelfeld." This terminolog}', 

 however, would be incorrect for three reasons: in the first place, 

 because the sclerite in question does not belong to the region which 

 Audouin, '24, calls the scutum, but is what he tenns the scutellum; 

 furthermore, the unpaire<l median region of the scutum, if such existe<i, 

 would be the triangular mediscutum; and, lastly, there is no "un- 

 paired" region, strictly speaking, in either scutum or scutellum, as the 

 whole tergum was originally dividetl into two symmetrical halves by 

 a median longitudinal suture. 



This suture, according to Comstock, '02, represents the hne of closure 

 of the embrj'O, and it is along tliis line that the cuticle is rupture<l at the 

 time of moulting. The median dorsal suture may be spoken of as the 

 mid-dorsal suture, while the corresponding median ventral suture 

 (wliich may represent traces of the neural groove) will be referred to 

 as the mid-ventral suture. 



The mid-dorsal suture is easily seen in such insects as the Sialida;, 

 Perlidaj, Tenthredinidie, Psocidae, Tipulida*, Trichoptera, etc. In 

 certain other insects, and some of these are very primitive, as, for 

 example, the roaches and earwigs, one can find scarcely any traces of 

 this suture in the mesotliorax, since the tergal subregions have unitetl 

 to form a simple undivided notum. However in the metathorax of 

 some Blattida?, etc., one can distinguish faint traces of these parts. 

 This leads to the conclusion that the simple notum is the result of non- 

 usage of the wings, or the peculiar mode of life of these in.>^ects, and 

 would hence be a tertiar}' nKjdification rather than a retention of the 

 primitive condition.* 



An examination of the inner ridges, which serve as points of insertion 

 for certain muscles, suggests that the tergum at one time may have been 

 a single piece, but, though muscular tension, ridges were drawn inward, 

 thus creating corresponding furrows or sutures on tlie exterior surface. 

 It is possible that the so-called parapsidal furrows, orsuturcis separating 

 the m«ii- from the parapsido-scutum, were formed in this way, as is 

 likewi.se the case witli the furrow which separates the para{)si<loscutum 

 from the scutellum. The latter furrow may Ije sp(jk('n of as the scutel- 

 lar suture. ^ 



The PoslncxilfUum. — Behind the scutellum lies the post.^cutelhun (fig. 

 1» ^*)t wliich usually o<-f m-v -i. h phragma projecting more or less into 



' In the .\j)t«;rygotn, howrvrr, the aiinple, undivided notimi doubtless r«-prc- 

 sents the primitive rondition. 




16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



the body~cavity, or, as is the case in tlio iJiptcra, it may be largely 

 external (see figs. 7 and 8, A^4). 



The j)Ostscutellar j)hragnia is usually much larger than the proi- 

 scutal phragma, and, while the latter is always closely connected with 

 the scutum, the postscutellum may become almost completely sepa- 

 rated from the remainder of the tergum. 



As has been stated, the praescutum and postscutellum usually occur 

 as phragmas, and between them extend the doi"sal longitudinal muscles. 

 It would appear that the arching of the mesothoracic region in such 

 swift-flying insects as the Hymenoptera, Diptera, etc., is caused by the 

 tension of these muscles. In the Diptera, the mesothoracic postscutel- 

 lum is greatly developed to furnish an attachment for these powerful 

 muscles, and the whole mesothorax appears to have grown at the 

 expense of the metathorax, which shrinks away, as it were, thus expos- 

 ing the huge mesothoracic postscutellum. Muscular tension is doubt- 

 less another factor causing the mesothoracic postscutellum to become 

 external, since it would give rise to an arching upward of the tergum 

 and the shifting forward of certain of the sclerites, as will be later dis- 

 cussed. This external character and unusual development of the 

 mesothoracic postscutellum in the Diptera caused Latreille, '20, to 

 mistake it for the notum of the metathorax. He consequently homo- 

 logized the metathorax of the Diptera with the first abdominal seg- 

 ment (the "segment mediaire") of the Hymenoptera. MacLeay, '30, 

 committetl a somewhat similar error in considering the first abdominal 

 segment (which is closely connected with the thorax in pedunculate 

 Hymenoptera) as part of the metanotum. Consequently, that portion 

 which he terms the postscutellum in Polistes belongs to the abdominal 

 region. 



The postscutellum^ (fig. 7, A^J of the Tipulidai is greatly developed 

 and is distinctly divided into three regions — a median region which 

 may be termed the mediophragmite (A^'^a), and two lateral regions 

 which will be spoken of as the pleurophragmites (A'^4b)- Each of the 

 pleurophragmites may be subdivided into a superior (A^^bs) and 

 inferior (A\bi) region, and the mediophragmite likewise may be 

 divided into symmetrical halves by a continuatif)n of the mid-ventral 



suture. 



In certain insects in which the pleurophraguiite is not connected with 

 the pleura, it would appear that a portion of the pleurophragmite 



' Snodgras-s, '08, frequently states that the Orthoptera liave no postscutellum. 

 This is not the ca.se in the Gryllidae, for example, as tlie postscutellum of 

 OrijUus domeslicus Is quite well de^x■loped. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 



becomes separated off and remains connected with the epimeron. 

 This piece has been termed by Kolbe, '93, the "parapleure" in the 

 Coleoptera, but this term is quite differently apphed by other inves- 

 tigators. Thus Voss, '04, considers ''parapleura" as synonymous 

 with epistcrnum. On the other hand Cuvier, '23, states that the 

 "parapleurae" are the "epimeres." According to MacLcay, '30, the 

 "jiarapleurae" are the episterna. Latreille, '20, considers the para- 

 pleural* as the "epimeres du metathorax." Lacordaire, '54, speaks of 

 the epimeron and episternum together as the "paraplcures," and 

 erroneou.sly ascribes this usage to Audouin. According to Knoch, 1801 

 (who introduced the term), "parapleururum" would refer to the 

 episternum ; while the episterniun and epimeron together were termed 

 " jiarapleururum duplum." If we are to abide strictly by the rule of 

 priority, the term parapleuron would apply only to the episternum, 

 in which sense it is used by Knoch, 1801, Kirby, '28, MacLcay, '30, 

 Jiurmeister, '32, Fieber, '61, Voss, '04, and others. However, in the 

 sense used by Kolbe, '93, it is a very useful term, if so used that there 

 would be no danger of confusion with the above cited usages. 



Amans, *85, gives a terminology for the tergal subdivisions entirely 

 different from that here accepted. Thus he propases the names 

 ])r<Mlorsum, doi-sum, postdorsum and sub-postdorsum for cxacth'^ 

 the same sclcrites which Audouin, '24, had j^rcviously termed the pra;- 

 scutum, scutum, scutellum and postscutcllum. Enderlein, '03, has 

 recently adopted Amans' usage, but there appoai-s to be no just cause 

 for thus arbitrarily changing Audouin's terminology, whicii not only 

 has the right of priority, but also has the advantage of widespread 

 acreptanco, and is not open to the objection mentioiHHl by Audouin 

 himself, namely, the term dorsum should be applied only to the entire 

 dorsal surface of the insect, in contradistinction to the venter, ventrum 

 or ventral surface. 



As has been previously nicnlioneil, Kleuker's, '83, tcnuinology is 

 inexact, in that he does not distinguish between the postscutelhnn of 

 tJK' inesothorax and pnescutiim of the nu'tatlu)rax, but terms them 

 indiscriminately the dcutcroiihragnia. .Moreover, Vass', '01, substi- 

 tution of the term pastscutum for postscutcllum is (piite unuarriiiitc<l, 

 and it would appear far preferable to employ only the siinj)l(' and aj)pro- 

 priate terminology of Audouin, '24, \ 



i'liK Wing. — The wing, as we have seen, is very closely connecte<i 

 with the para|widoscutum, and indee<l Packard. 'OS, believes that the 

 wing fundaments are scutal structures. Tlicy usually arise as sack-like 

 folds of the b(Hly wall, and in insects with incomplete metamorphosis 




18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OK [Tail., 



appear as lateral outgrowths of the caiulal margin of the terguni. 

 Tliis is well shown in the (levclopnicnt of the male Hlattid, in which the 

 elytron-like fore wings project from the posterior margin of the tergum, 

 becoming more and more elongate at each moult, and finally devijlop 

 into chitinous structures in which the characteristic venation of the 

 wings Js clearly shown. This has led to the theory that the wings 

 arose as lateral outgrowths of the margin of tiie notum, originally 

 acting as a sort of parachute, but later developing into functional 

 wings. Another theory is that the wings and legs have a similar 

 origin. In a third theory, it is claimed that the wings develop from 

 tracheal gills; and in yet another, it is held that the wings are modi- 

 fied spiracles. It is not proposal to discuss these theories liere at 

 length, but, in objection to Gegenbauer's, '78, tracheal-gill theory, 

 it may be remarked that Palmen, '77, has clearly demonstrated that 

 the close<l tracheal system is only a secondary adaptation to the aquatic 

 life of the larva, and that aerial respiration was doubtless the primitive 

 one. On this account, it is hardly probable that wings have developed 

 from tracheal gills. 



Walton, '01, believes that the tegulsB or pterygoda are rudimentary 

 wings, but, as has been previously discussed, there is absolutel}^ no 

 proof foi the statement that these structures are wing fundaments, 

 either from an embryological or a structural point of view. Comstock, 

 '95, suggested that "the wing covers or elytra of earwigs and beetles 



probably correspond to the tegul® that is, they arc a pair of 



side pieces of the mesothorax, the parapleura, greatly enlarge<^l." 

 Walton has followed out this suggestion in his theory, and likewise 

 adopts the view that the alulet-like structures under the elytra of 

 Hydrophilus, etc., represent extra wings. Comstock, '98, however, 

 has shown that the elytra are the modified wings, and that the mem- 

 branous structures beneath them are quite comparable to the alulae of 

 Diptera, etc., and are even bordered by the "spring vein" characteristic 

 of the alulse.' 



In the most generalized insects the tracheation follows the path in<li- 

 cated by the chief cuticular thickenings, which later become the veins 

 for stiffening the wings. The tracheation, therefore, is frequently of 

 great value in determining the homology of the principal wing veins, 

 and was much used by Comstock, '98, in the comparison of the 

 venation throughout the orders. The principal veins recognized by 

 him are the costa, subcosta, radius, media, cubitus, and the anals. 



» See Sharp, '96. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADKLPHIA. 10 



Tliis terminology, based upon that of Recltenbacher, '86. is the one 

 usually acceptetl by modern systematists, and has consequently been 

 here adopted. 



The Pleurox. — The two principal sclerites of the pleuron are the 

 episternum and epimeron of Audouin, '24. The later terms, ante- 

 pleuron (episternum) and postpleuron (epimeron) of Amans, '85. or 

 the coxopleure (episternum) and anopleure (epimeron) of ^>rhocff, '03, 

 since they are applied to exactly the same sclerites, must be rcgankxl 

 as superfluous synonyms. The pleurit and subcoxa of Heymons, '99, 

 will be later discussal under the iicading Hemiptera. However, it 

 may be remarked of these sclerites — which have given rise to a great 

 deal of discussion — that the pleurit is merely the epimeron, while the 

 greater part of the subco.xa corresponds to the episternum. 



The pleurites of the Blattidaj are interesting from the fact that the 

 epimeron and episternum appear to be merely portions of a single 

 plate separate<l into two regions by a deep pocket-liko infolding of the 

 integument. This suggests that the episternum antl epimeroti nuiy 

 originally have been one piece, but became separatetl by such an in- 

 folding of the integument — possibly {\ue to muscular tensi(»n. In this 

 way there would be formed an external furrow, the so-call('<l pleural 

 suture, and a corresponding hollow ridge, the entopleuron or apcxieme. 

 This would account for the fact that tlie a|)odemes of insects arc hollow 

 processes, and it is conceivable that tiic apodcmes would thus arise as 

 hollow invaginations of the body wall of the embryo, rwn thoimh 

 the mtiscular tension which originally developed the apodcmes were 

 not strongly operative at this stage. 



There is a grcal lack of uniformity in the usage of the terms apo<leme 

 and apophysis in referring to the internal or "entothoracic" proces.'^cs. 

 As here u.se<l, the expression apo<leme is applie<l solely to internal 

 processes of the pleuron (i.r., the "entopleura"); wjiilc the term 

 a{)ophysis refers only to the intcriuil procos.'ses of the >t( iniun — the 

 "entosterna." 



The entopleuron may bear four inward projecting proces.srs as fol- 

 lows: above, a pivot, or articulating proccs.s for the wing, which may 

 be terme<I the alar process of the apodeme; and below this a process 

 serving for muscle attachment (in such iasects as Panorjxi, etc.), which 

 may be tenne<l the interme<linn process. The third is usuAlly quite 

 a large process. It may or may not extend as far as the fiirca (or 

 forked apophysis of the sternum), but frcfjuently abuts against the en<l 

 of the furcal ann. antl may even fu.se with it. This process will l)c 

 referral to as the adfurcal process. The process just l)elow it. which 




20 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[.Ian., 



forms an articulation with the coxa, has been tennecl the coxal process. 

 These processes will be discussed more at length in a later article dealing 

 with the comparative myology of insects. 



The Epimeron. — It is generally taken for granted that the epimeral 

 ami episternal regions of the thorax are not subdivided into smaller 

 «!clontes, but a glance at the mesothorax of Cicada (fig. 5) and Tipula 

 (fig. 7) or the metathorax of Myrmeleon (fig. 4) and Chrysopa (fig. 3) 

 will readily convince one that this is an error. 



To illustrate, let us examine the thorax of the widespread insect 

 Chrysopa. For this purpose Chrysopa vulgaris is preferable to the 

 somewhat commoner form Chrysopa perla, as the black bars and 

 markings upon the thorax of the latter insect tend to obscure the 

 sutures between the subregions. 



In the epimeral region of Phassus (fig. 6), and most winged insects 

 as well, one can readily find an elongate plate embedded in the softer 

 cuticule directly under the posterior portion of the wing (EMp). This 

 sclerite doubtless corresponds to the plate which Lowne, '90, desig- 

 nates as the "costa" in the blow-fly. The term costa, however, has 

 been apphed to one of the wing veins, and this usage has been every- 

 where adopted. It would, therefore, seem preferable to substitute 

 the expression costal sclerite in referring to the above mentioned 

 plate.* The costal sclerite bears an internal process, which serves as 



'1\T 



^ 



lig. :i. 



Fig. 3. — Chrysopa. — Lateral ^^ew of right flank. 



antennJE partially removed. 

 Fig. 4. — MvRMELEON. — Side view of right flank. 



antennae partially removed. 



I'ig. 4. 

 Abdomen, legs, wings and 



Abdomen, legs, wings and 



the point of insertion for the epimeral wing muscles. This process 

 may be terme<l the endocostal process. Behind the costal sclerites 

 there frequently occurs a smaller sclerite which Ukewise serves as an 

 attachment for the epimeral muscles. This will be spoken of as the 



♦Snodgrass, '08, terms this sclerite the "postepimeron," but since the plate 

 in question is normally "supraepimeral" rather than "postepimeral," Lowne's 

 term, slightly modified, has been here retained. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



posterior costal sclerite (EM^c). It is usually very small and relatively 

 unimportant. 



In the metathorax of Chrysopa and Myrmeleon, and in the mesotho- 

 rax of Cicada, etc., the epimeron is distinctly divided into an upper 

 and lower portion. The upper rej^ion will be referre<l to as the anae{)i- 

 meron^ or anepimeron (fig. 3, EM a) and the lower region may be termed 

 the kataepimeron or katepimeron (EAfk). In the Raphidians, the 

 suture between the anepimeron and katepimeron is partly obliterated, 

 and in many other insects all traces of it have disappearetl. In 

 Phassiis schamyl (fig. 6), the upper portion of the epimeron is mem- 

 branous, thus suggesting that in other insects the anepimcral region 

 may have originally arisen as a softening of the chitin, to give greater 

 freedom of motion to the wing, and thus become tlifferentiated from 

 the remainder of the e|>imeron. 



In the Muscina, there is an arching of the mesothora.x aiul a shifting 



forward of the sclerites — probably 



the result of muscular teasion — 



so that the upper region of the 



epimeron (EM^) is bent forward 



and lies upon the epistemum 



(fig. 8). It would appear that 



Lowne, '90, and other dipterolo- 



gists have not been aware of this 



,., J Tr it J/, -7 1 Fig. 5. — Cicada. — Lateral view<»frinlit 



fact, for Lowne, Hewitt, 07, and fl^^,. Abdomen, legs, and wings 



a number of others mistake the shortened. 



anepimeron (EM^) for the epis- 



tenuim and consequently designate the katepimeron (A'.^/k) as the 



entire epimeron. A comparison with one of the Tipulidie — in which 



group the sclerites are in their normal positions— readily shows the 



error of such a homologization. In the Tipulida', and less distinctly 



in the Ephemerida?, the pleurophragmitc (or lateral region of the 



postscutellar phragma) is .so closely connecte<l with the pleuron that 



it a{)pears to be a part of the pleural region (fig. 7, -V^bJ; lji>t. \^i''> 



the "parapleure" of the Coleoptera, it should be rlasst^l as a portion 



of the postscutellum. 



Connected with the lower portion of the epi?neron in Chrysnjxi and 



a uiniiber of other iasects i.s a sclerite t€rme<l the mcron (fig. 3, C,). 



' In an earlier publication (Crampton, '08) the tenn liyntr- and hypo-epimeron 

 were employed to designate these regions, but. upon further ronj<ideriition, it 

 has seemed preferable to substitiite the desiini.'»'i<"''< ana- and kata-epimernn, 

 which are not so ronfusingly similar nn the former terms. 




22 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan., 



This sclcrito is of a variable nature, being entirely coxal in some insects, 

 while in others it is entirely pleural. The origin and nature of this 

 sclerite will be more fully described in the discussion of the sclerites 

 of the leg. 



I'he Episternum. — While the division into ana- and kata-epimeron is 

 shown in Init few hexapods, a subdivision of the episternum into an 

 ui)per and lower region is evident in a great number of insects. Among 

 these may be mentioned Sialis, Hepialus, Corydalis, Phassus, Bittacus, 

 Cicada, Tipida, Mantispa, Hcmerobius, Raphidia, Chrysopa, Myrmeleon, 

 the Nemoptera, Trichoptera, and a large number of other insects from 

 tlifTerent families. Beyond a doubt, if enough material could be ex- 

 amined, it would be found that indications of this division occur in 

 some genera of eveiT familv. 



Fig. 6. FiR. 7. 



Fig. 6. — Ph.\ssus. — Lateral \-iew of riRlit flank. Head completely removed; 



wings, abdomen and two po.sterior legs .shortened. 

 Fig. 7. — TiPUL.\. — Lateral view. Head entirely removed. Wings, abdomen 



an<l legs shortened. 



Tlie epimeral subdivisions are best shown in Mantispa, but Chrysopa 

 serves the purpose almost as well, and is a much commoner insect. 

 In Chrysopa, the upper region of the episternum — ^which will be termed 

 the anepisternum (fig. 3, J^»S'a), is separated from the lower or "katepi- 

 sternum" (£'»Sk), by a narrow strip which may be spoken of as the 

 merlian region of the episternum (ESm)' In the thorax of Chrysopa 

 this strip is very narrow, but in the thorax of Myrmeleon it is quite 

 broad (fig. 4, ESm). In the metathorax of the Forficulida;, the upper 

 portion of the anepistemal region is frequently cut off Ij}'^ a white, 

 scar-like softening of the chitin of the episternum. Verhoeff, '03, 

 terms this piece the pteropleure." 



While the anepisternum in most insects is in its normal position, the 



•The musculature of the anepi.sternum clearly shows that it is not to be 

 homologized with the "pteropleure" alone. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



previoui^ly mentioned shifting forward of the anepimeral region in 

 the Muscidae (fig. 8. EMa.) has di.splaced the anepisternum (ESg) in 

 the inesothorax. Tiiis phenomenon has led to a great variety of 

 inter|)retations of these sclerites in the Diptera. Thus Brauer, '82, 

 refei-s to the anepisternum (fig. 7, ESa) as the entire episternum, and 

 the katepisternal region (/?»Sk) as the sternum. Lowne, '90, mi.'^takes 

 the anepimeron (fig. 8, EMa) for the entire episternum, and, therefore, 

 terms the anepisternum (ESa) the "lateral plate." Hammond, '81, 

 commits the same error and terms the anepisternum the jiarapteron. 

 The latter term, however, cannot be use<l in this connection, as Autlouin, 

 '32. made it synonymous with squamula, i.e., the tegula or pterygoilum. 

 As first employed by Audouin, '24, the designation parapteron was 

 applied to the anterior margin of the episternum. Audouin himself 

 seems to have had a great deal of trouble in homologizing this region 

 with that of other insects, and finally solved the difficulty by applying 

 the terms hypopteron and j^arapteron to MacLeay's, '32, sf|uaniula — 

 with wiiich they are therefore synonyms, and arc so useil by most 

 authors. 



On the inner surface of the anepisternum of Clin/snpu, Cori/dalis, 

 anil a number of other insects, one can distinguish a lobe-like struc- 

 ture which is apparently formed 

 by the inrolling of the anterior 

 n)argin of the anepimeron, and 

 serves as an attachment for the 

 muscles extending to the trochan- 

 tiii and leg. It is quite easy to 

 follow the mcMlification of this 

 structure in various insects, as it 

 graihially becomes more separate<l 



frtiMi the anepisternum, assumes ^ ^' 



a conical fonn, and is finally ^'•J;,i:7v'r.?rV"*^vr'l"'^.iil:;nn 

 C(innectc<l with the upper portion mul I<-p< shortciu-d. A fdinnnrison 



„f iho _<.pi«tor„um by its apex r'o'T.'^'Sulrti^-t.l oJ^ofc 



alone. This plate will bespoken parts, uh is imlimtod !)>• (In- nrrow. 



of .'IS the conuH. t 



The Lalerale. — If one compare the mosothorax of a Blattid with that 

 of a Forficulid, it will be seen that the so-calle<l episternum is not the 

 same in both. In order to better understand the relation f»f the sclerites 

 in these insects a hypothetical type (fig. 20) has been taken as a basis 

 for comparison. In the stage here represente<l, the epimeron (EM) 

 is indicate<l a^ a <listinct region, while the remainder of the pleuron 




24 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan., 



(ES' + L) consists of a single piece which may be designated l-)y 

 Heymon's, '99, term subcoxaJ However, it should not be taken for 

 grantetl that in adopting Heymon's terminology, his theory of the origin 

 of the subcoxa is likewise acooptc<l ; for, as will be later discussed, it is 

 very improbable that the subcoxa is the basal portion of tlic leg. 



EM 



Fig. 9. Fig. 10. 1 i^'. 



Fig. 9.— DoLERUs. — External view of the right cervico-plcuron {i.e., union of 



the rervicals with the prothoracic pleuron). This region is usually termed 



the protlioracic epistemum. 

 Fig. 10 represents the anterior portion of fig. 9, seen from within to show the 



apodeme-like structure (C5a<l) separating the anterior lateral cervical iCS.,a} 



from th_ posterior lateral cervical (CS^p). 

 Fig. 11 represents the posterior portion of fig. 9 seen from within; showing tlie 



apodeme (.4 D') between the protlioracic epistemum (ES') and epimeron {EM'). 



The trochantin (T) is represented as a portion of the subcoxa, though 

 it is quite possible that it was originally a portion of the coxa, separated 

 off by muscular tension, and united with the subcoxa as a secondary 

 modification. For the present, however, this point may be left out 

 of consideration. 



The first divi.sion of the subcoxa doubtless occurred along the line 

 a c (fig. 20), thus separating the subcoxa into the epistemum (ES) 

 and a region which may be termed the laterale (L). The further divi- 

 sioas in the laterale may occur in either of two directions — longitu- 

 dinally or traasversely. A longitudinal division (i.e., along the line 

 c i g) would prwluce the condition found in the cockroach (fig. 21, 

 compare also pi. Ill): that is, there would be a separation into an 

 anterior region, which may be termed the anterior laterale* (-^a); and 

 a posterior one, which may be termed the antecoxal laterale (Lh). 

 The latter term is a slight modification of Walton's, '00, "antecoxal 

 piece," which has priority over Verhoeff's, '03, " katopleure. " If, on 

 the other hand, the laterale be divided, not longitudinally (as in the 



'According to Enderlein, the "subcoxa" represents the trochantin; Bornor 

 considers it the equivalent of his merosternum; and VerhoefT homologizes it 

 with his coxopleure and trochantin. 



*In a former publication this sderite was termed the "pleuro-laterale." 




1900.] NATURAL SCIEN'CRS OF PHILADKLPHIA. 2/> 



cockroach), but transversely, i.e., along the line / e (fig. 20), we would 

 have the condition found in the eanvig (see fig. 19, compare also pi. 

 II). The region nearest the episternum (ES) may be termed the 

 episternal latcrale (Lj), and that next the .^terniuu (S) the sternal 

 laterale (Lj). In Forficula there is a third piece, the "hyposternal 

 latcrale" (L3), which is not so deeply pigmented as the other two. It 

 is usually covere<l by the sternum, and in Anisolabis it appears to be 

 fused with the sternal laterale. 



The interpretation of the relations of these scleritcs as given by 

 Verhoeff, '03, differs ver>' widely from the (me just discussetl. This 

 investigator homologizes the episternum of the ean\ig (fig. 19, ES) 

 with the episternum plus the anterior laterale in the cockroach (fig. 

 21, ES + La). The canvig's cpi.^tcrnal laterale (fig. 19. L,) he homo- 

 logizes with the anteco.xal laterale of the cockroach (fig. 21, Lb); a'»l 

 as the eanvig's sternal latcrale (fig. 19, Lj) would then have no corre- 

 sponding sclerite in the cockroach, \'crhoeff seeks to explain the sternal 

 laterale as a "Vorplatte" or anterior plate which lies in front of the 

 sternum in the prothorax {i.e., a lateral cervical?), but in the mc^o- 

 and metathorax it is supposed in some way to become drawn around 

 to the side of the sternum and take up a position between the latter 

 and the antecoxal laterale (or "katopleure"). The musculature giv«'s 

 no indication of such a caudad migration of the lateral cervicals, (tr 

 of any other " Vorderstiick," and it is difficult to see how such a theory 

 can be supporte<l. On the other hand, it is quite comprehensible that 

 a transverse, as well as a longitudinal division might occur, since a 

 similar division is clearly traceable in the prothoracic trochantin of 

 the lilattida'. 



In the metathorax of the Dennaptera (or Kuplexoptera) the sternal 

 laterale has apparently fuse<l with the sternum (pi. II). In the 

 prothorax of Anisolabis (pi. II) the 

 cpistemal latcrale (L,) has partially 

 fuse<l with the episternum, but traces 

 of its outlines arc still preserve<l. The 

 sternal laterale may Ix* readily ol>ser\'e<l 

 as a distinct .sclerite (Lj), but both it 

 anrl the epistornal laterale (L,) are 



, 1 1 • • rm ii •'•K- !*• J'l KHi>.-«lU HirH.— I)«ir- 



greatly re<luce<l m size. Ihe protho- ^„| virw of tin- mrtuthonix. 

 racic sternal laterale (L,) is entirelv HlmwinK il.c Htfm.llnnW.V'",) 



, , . , , .^ ' parfi;illv riivt-ri'd hv two fliim 



distmct from the cervical .srlentes „f „„. parnHdosrutuni. 



{CS.^x)< which lie in a plane Mow it; 



yet Bomer, '03, confuses it with the cer\'icals, and homologizes it 




26 PUOCKEDIXGS OF THE ACADKMV OF [Jan., 



(the protlioracic sternal laterale) and one of the cervicals with the nieso- 

 tlioracic episternal laterale of the same specimen. The remaining scle- 

 rites of the posterior lateral cervicals (C^Sjx) he homologizes with the 

 sternal laterale of tlie mesothorax. Borner likewise considers that the 

 mesothoracic sternal laterale (pi. II, L".^ and episternal laterale {h" ^ 

 are subdivisions of the antecoxal laterale (pi. Ill, i^b)- These views 

 however seem quite imtenable. 



The longitudinal division of the laterale into the anterior and ante- 

 coxal regions is best shown in the cockroach (pi. Ill), although it is 

 clearly traceable in a number of insects. In many Neuroptera, as for 

 example Corydali^ (fig. 17), Chrysopa (fig. 3), etc., the antecoxal 

 laterale appears a-s a narrow strip (Lb) connecting the katepimeral 

 complex' (-f^Skx) with that ])ortion of the sternum which will be later 

 spoken of as the furci-sternum (Sg). The anterior laterale (La) is 

 usually quite large, filling the region between the epistermuu an<l the 

 "Basi-stemum" (S^). 



In the thorax of Gryllus, Voss, '04, has described a sclerite which 

 seems to correspond in part to the laterale. He terms this sclerite the 

 ooxostemum, upon the ground that it represents the region so desig- 

 natetl by Borner, '03. This homologizing, however, is quite incorrect, 

 for. as may be readily seen in his figures, Borner's " coxosternum " 

 includes the epimeron, episternum and laterale. Furthermore, Ver- 

 hoefT had long before employed the term "coxasternum" to designate 

 the fusion product of the coxae with the sternum. The laterale, there- 

 fore, can hardly be termed the "coxosternum." 



The Trochantin. — ^The small, somewhat triangular-shaped sclerite 

 articulating with the coxa is designatetl as the trochantin, trochantine 

 or trochantinus. In the Blattidse (fig. 21 and pi. Ill) the trochantin (T) 

 is quite large, and in some species it is united for a short distance with 

 the episternum. In the Trichoptera (fig. 18) it would appear that the 

 trochantin has fused with the katepisternal complex almost completely, 

 its extreme tip alone remaining free. The trochantin may thus com- 

 pletely fuse \\ith the katepisternal complex, or, according to certain 

 coleopterologists, it may fuse witli the coxa. 



In the prothorax of all the Blattidse that the writer could obtain 

 the trochantin is transversely divided into two regions, the larger of 

 which may be termed the trochantinus major and the smaller one the 

 trochantinus minor. This condition seems to be a characteristic of 

 the Blattidse alone, and may prove to be of systematic value. 



* I.e., fusion product of the katepimeron, part of the trocliantin, and a portion 

 of the antecoxal laterale. 




1909.] XATLHAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27 



If one comjiare the mesothoracic trochantin of a lilattid (pi. Ill) 

 with that of Chrysopa (fig;. 3) and Corydalis (fig. 17), it appears that the 

 so-ealle<l trocliantin of Chn/sopa and Corydalis correspond only to the 

 "minor" region in the cockroach. The condition in Corydalis indi- 

 cates that the minor region may become constricted off and form what 

 is Hsually considered the entire trochantin in certain insects, while 

 the major region fuses with the episternum — as it partially does in the 

 prothorax of the Blattidae. 



In the cockroach this breaking of the prothoracic trochantin into 

 two pieces is so evident that it is diflScult to see how Sharp, '95, could 

 have so confused these sclerites in his figure of 

 Blahera giganiea {Cambridge Natural History, ..-^ v 



Vol. I. p. 222). He has turned the figure upside . \ / 



down, thus making it more difficult to see what he 

 is trying to show, but it is quite plain that the 'v , 



portion he terms the entire trocliantin is only the C 



minor region, while his "epimeron(?)" is the Fip. 13. — Lyda. — 

 major region of the trochantin. The true epimeron NontralMow o 



is the sderitc he designates as a fold of the pr<»- prothorax. 

 notum. 



In the mesothorax of Forficula (pi. II) the trocliantin is not trans- 

 versely, but longitudinally divided into separate pieces (7'a and 7^). 

 In the Blattidse (fig. 21 and pi. Ill) this division is indicated by a longi- 

 tudinal suture — the trochantinal suture — which is present not only in 

 the meso- and meta-thoracic trocliantin (T" and T'"), but also in the 

 major and minor portions of the prothoracic trochantin (7'', and 7'',), 

 thus dearly indicating that the latter are but parts of a single piece. 

 Of the two regions nuirke<l off by the trochantinal suture, the posterior 

 one will be termed the coxal trochantin'" (pi. Ill, 7'b) and the anterior 

 region will be referrfnl to as the antecoxal trocliantin (7'a). 



('oiustock, '02, terms the anteco.xul trochantin (7'n) the antecoxal 

 piece, and refers to the antecoxal laterale (7'b) as the second antecoxal 

 piece. In iising the terms antecfixal trochantin and antecoxal laterale 

 an attempt has l)een here made to retain Comstock's t<'rins, and y«'1 

 make it clear to wliat region the parts ho {leflignate<l In'long. It must 

 be borne in mind that Comstock's, '02, antecoxal piece (i.e., the ante- 

 coxal trt)chantin) is not the same as Walton's, '(X), antecoxal piece 

 (the antecoxal laterale), and neither of these sdcrites corresponds to 



"With rcfprence to the dc^if^ation of this sclerite, the term "acctiwory tro- 

 chantin plate" (Snofljfra.Hs, '08), of which the writer was not aware at the tinu* 

 tin- alxivo pivrn t<Tiiiiin>|e)gy \va,s proponed, has tlic riglit of priority. 




28 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADKMY OF 



[Jan., 



(^ 



the piece temiecl the "antecoxal piece" in Comstock's, '95, figure of 

 Enchromn gvjantca (page 503). In tiie latter ca.se, the anteco.xal 

 piece corresponds to that j^ortion of the sternum which will be latoi- 

 referral to as the furci sternum. The writer wasnot able to discover 

 the ori<;inal use of the expression, but as early as 18G1, Leconte, in 

 his classification of the Coleoptera of North America^ states that a 

 pair of "horny plates" is found embedded in the membrane of the neck, 

 and terms these the "antecoxal plates." The jjlates here referred to 

 are evidently the cervical sclerites. 



As has been mentioned, Comstock, '02, designates tlic antecoxal 

 trochantin (pi. Ill, Tg) the antecoxal piece. On the other hand, he 

 refers to the coxal trochantin as the entire trochan- 

 tin. The latter usage, however, is quite incorrect, 

 for the coxal- and antecoxal-trachantin together 

 form the trochantin, and it is in this sense that 

 the term will be used in the following discussion. 

 Corresponding to the external (trochantinal) 

 suture, dividing the trochantin into the coxal and 

 antecoxal regions, is an internal ridge which may 

 be termed the endotrochantinal lamella, and the 

 thorn-like proce.ss near it may be termed the endo- 

 trochantinal process. 



Synonyms for the term trochantin are Voss', 

 '04, priecoxal plate, and Strauss-Durkheim's, 

 '28, rotule. The term pracoxal plate has little 

 to recommend it, but it would have been much 

 preferable if entomologists had adopted the term 

 rotule; for the latter term better expresses the function of this sclerite, 

 is not borrowed from vertebrate anatomy, and is not so confusingly 

 similar to the term trochanter, as is the case with Audouin's trochantin. 

 However, the name trochantin, or the latinized form trochantiruis, 

 given it by MacLeay, '30, is a very useful term and has received too 

 wide an acceptance to attempt to change it. 



Between the trochantin and the coxa lies a very small chitinous 

 plate, the complementary coxal sclerite," or "complementary plate" 

 (Borner, '03), which bears an internal process, the complementary 

 process, to which are attached certain muscles extending to the epi- 

 sternum. Tliis small sclerite is frequently fused with the coxa, and the 

 complementary process then appears as a process of the coxal margin. 



Fig. i .. — .•- 1 KE B- 



LOGXATTius (after 

 Janet). — A com- 

 parison with fig. 

 1.3 shows the way 

 in wliich the cer- 

 vico-propleura 

 {C-Ph become 

 approximated on 

 the ventral sur- 

 face, and com- 

 pletely conceal 

 the presternum. 



" The accessory coxal plate of .Snodgrass, 'OS. 




1009.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29 



The Leg. — The coxa is very closel}'' connected with the pleuron in 

 certain insects, and indeed Miall and Dennj'', '86, consider that the 

 pleural sclerites are "two basal leg-joints which have become adherent 

 to the thorax." From his embiyological studies, Heymons, '99, also 

 adopts this view in designating the "subcoxa" as the basal portion of 

 the leg. Borner, '03, at first considered the pleural sclerites as plates 

 which have become separated from tlie sternum, but he later adopted 

 Heymons' view. 



The theory that the pleural sclerites are basal leg-joints appears 

 iiardly tenable. In those insect larviP wiiich have long, well-developed 

 legs (as for example Corydulis, Carabus, etc.) it is necessary that the 

 muscles have some firm support, and it is doubtless the stimulus of 

 the muscular tension which causes the formation of certain sclerites 

 in the soft integument of the larva. This is certainly a far more reason- 

 able supposition than that the epimeron and episternum would be 

 drawn up from a hard chitinizod log region into a soft pleural region, 

 before the latter region were sufliciently resistant to furnish the ne(^le<l 

 support for the muscles. In the above mentioned insects, the pleural 

 sclerites first appear near the base of the leg, and it is quite possible 

 that these would appear to arise ivom the basal region of the embry- 

 onic leg mass, as it is impossible to say just where the leg begins and the 

 pleuron ends in the embr\'onic stages. There is such a shifting, 

 flattening, and distorting of the parts in those forms uj)on wiiich 

 Heymons bases his conclusions, that he was deceivetl into considering 

 that the mesothoracic subcoxa (fig. 10) represents the epimeron and 

 episternum together, whereas, in reality, it represents the mesothoracic 

 episternum, laterale, and perhaps the trochantin. On the other hand, 

 the "pleurit," which he considers as reproscnting the nietatlioracif 

 pleuritcs, does not belong to the metathorax at all, but is m(M-(>ly the 

 mesothoracic epimeron (fig. 15, EM"). This mesothoracic epimeron 

 is thrown into a fold by the shifting fr»rward of the region behind it 

 and overlaps the metathoracic epimentn {EM'"), which escaped 

 Heymons' attention altogether. These facts serve to illustrate how 

 easily the embryonic regions nuiy be confiis(><] ; a?id when one takes into 

 consideratiori that even in the larval stages of tiie above mentioned 

 insects, the pU-ural sclerites are first fornu^l so near the base oftlic leg, 

 it is readily coni|)rehensible tliat Heymons could have l)een mislcHl 

 into considering the pleurites as l)asal leg-joints, since in the embry- 

 onic stages (upf)n which he bases his conclusions) there is no sharp 

 <listinction between the leg and pleural regioti. 



It is perhaps worth mentioning in this connecti(»n that the katepis- 




.'iO PROCKEDIXGS OF THK ACADKMV UK [.liUl., 



ternal complex, the aiitecoxal laterale, the furci-sternuni ((lesciilx'd 

 later), and the katepinieron form a close<l ring about the base of the 

 leg, and might consequently be taken for a portion of the leg region; 

 but, for the reasons above stated, this y'ww would be extremely 

 improbable. 



Hansen, '93, compares the trochantin to tlu^ coxopodite of the Mala- 

 costraca, and homologizes the coxa with the liasipotlite. He likewise 

 adopts the views of Wootl-Mason, '79, and Jourdain, '88, who pn;- 

 pose that the styli on the meso- and meta-thoracic coxae represent the 

 exopo<.lite of the crustacean leg. In a recent article Borner has again 

 brought this theory into prominence. Henneguy, '04, who likewise 

 compares the iasect leg with that of the Crustacea, differs from the 

 above-mentione<l investigatoi*s in that he maintains that the stylus 

 corresponds to the epipodite — not to the exopodite. He argues that 

 if the coxa corresponds to the basipodite, the stylus or coxal appendage 

 must correspond to the epipodite or basipodite appendage, and not 

 to the exopodite, which is the appendage of the coxopodite. 



The above-mentioned views seem hardly probable, for all indica- 

 tions point to the fact that insects are not descended from aquatic, 

 but from terrestrial ancestors. Palmen, '77, has demonstrated that 

 the open tracheal system for aerial respiration is the primitive one, 

 and it may be added that in the development of the Ephemerid embryo, 

 the primordia (or fundaments) of the spiracles may be observed even 

 in the germinal streak. The aquatic life of the larvae, then, mast be 

 regarded as a secondary adaptation; and, therefore, one can hardly 

 attempt to homologize the styli of the insect leg with the exopodite 

 or the epipodite of the aquatic Crustacea. 



Banks', '93, theory that the styli are vestigial legs has no founda- 

 tion other than the extremely improbable supposition that each seg- 

 ment is double. In all probability these structures are modified sen- 

 sory hairs, or they may be comparable to the movable spine-like struc- 

 tures found upon the legs of certain insects. \'erhoeff, who adopts 

 Haase's, '89, view regarding the styli, homologizes them with the 

 coxal orgaas of the Myriopoda. 



As has been state^J, Walton, '00, believes that the meron is a vestigial 

 leg, but serioas doubt is cast upon this theory by the fact that one can 

 trace the formation of the meron as a coxal sclerite, which is either 

 not distinguishable from the rest of the coxa, or at most indistinctl}' 

 traceable, in the lower forms, but becomes detached by muscular ten- 

 sion in the highly specialized iasects. The view that the tension of 

 the mascles attached to it causes the meron to become detached is 




I!K)9.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



31 



strengthened by the fact that it oceui's as a distinct sclerite only in the 

 segments which bear functional wings. Thus it seems to be absent 

 in the prothorax of all the insects which the writer has studied, and no 

 traces of it are to be found in the metathorax of the Diptera, although 

 it is well developed in the mesothorax of these insects. 



Since the mode of life is the same among insects and myriopods, and 

 as the legs of both are used in the same manner, it is but natural that 

 there should be a very marked convergence in the structure of these 

 organs. This, however, is not sufficient ground for attempting to 

 change the terminology applied to the segments of the insect leg, a.s 

 Verhoeff, '03-'04, has done. Even if it could be demonstrated that 

 the joints of the im^ect leg can bo homologized with corresponding 

 ones in the myriopods, the terminology for the leg segments of the 

 myriopods should be adapted to that of insects, as the latter lias 

 th(> right of priority and of widespread acceptance. 



''■-.. 



Fig. 1.',. Fig. 10. 



Fir. !.'». -Nkpa. -Ventral viow showing luilf of the slcninin and tlif corrr- 

 ••pf)n<liiiK ph'uroii of tlic incso- and int'ta-tlinrax ami the (Ir.st tlirrc alxlominal 

 .spgnK-nts. Till- fla|)-likc nicsothoracic cpitncron {EM") is raisrd np an<l Ix'ut 

 forward to show the nn'tatlioranc cpirnrTon {EM'") which lies \indt'r it and 

 wa.M overlooked hy Heynions. The corner (»f the nielathoracic epinieron {KM"') 

 ifl likewise slightly raised to show the first alxlominal segment which i.s hidden 

 by the epirneron, and does not appear in Mevnions' figure of Xejxi (fig. l(i). 



Fig. ir>.— Heyrnons' figure of ,\V;»a, sliglitly modified. Tin- diitte<l lines indicate 

 the region corresponding to that .shown in fig. l.'>. 



Of the leg segments only the roxa and trofhantcr necil be herf" con- 

 sidered. The coxa i.s frequently divided into two regions, a-s has been 

 previously dcscrilied. VerhoelT's, '03, term eucoxa (fig. 3. (\), applied 

 to the anterior coxal region, si'ems preferable to Walton's, '(K), "coxa 

 gentiina." but for the posterior coxa! region Walton's term meron hiis 




32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jail., 



boon here atk)pto(l. A narrow mar<rinal area, the "coximarginal" 

 ^clorite, is frequently separated from the rest of the coxa by a suture, 

 :as is well shown in the Blattidse (pi. Ill, Cm), Corydalis (fig. 17), etc. 

 It is questionable whether this region corresponds to the area desig- 

 natetl as "Cm (?)" in fig. IS of the Trichopteran thorax, but the matter 

 as of relatively slight importance. 



That portion of the furci-sternum later spoken of as the pedal region 

 (fig. 18, 4S3a) frequently occurs as an elongate wedge-shaped process 

 extending into the coxal region. In such cases the furci-sternum is 

 so clasely connected with the coxal region that the coxa usually loses 

 much of its freedom of motion. This loss, however, is usuall}'- compen- 

 sated by the greater mobility of the trochanter. Although the tro- 

 chanter appears to consist of but one joint in many insects, the second 

 joint is frequently hidden within the coxa, so that the "ditrochleate" 

 condition is much commoner than is generally supposed. This fact has 

 led to the formulation of the theory that one of the segments of the 

 trochanter represents a second joint of the "meral" leg. As the 

 author of this theory has not yet published his results, the improbability 

 of such a hypothesis will not be discussed here. 



The question as to whether or not the trochanter (or any part of it) 

 is the upper portion of the femur, and the different theories regarding 

 its homology', have but little bearing upon a study of the thoracic 

 sclerites, and need not be further gone into here. 



The Sternum. — ^MacLeay, '30, as has been stated, proposes that 

 each segment is composed of four subsegments or annuli. Arguing 

 from the fact that the tergum is divided into four regions, he states 

 that the sternum likewise "ought to be" divided into four regions, 

 and proposes for these the names prtesternum, sternum, sternellum, 

 and poststernellum. He has not figured, described or even seen these 

 regioas, but merely assumes their existence because of the condition 

 found in the tergum. Indeed, Newport, '39, who adopts MacLeay's 

 theorj', states that these regions cannot all be found in any living insect, 

 as the specialization and fusion of the subsegments have gone too far 

 to leave any traces of the subdivisioas in the sternum. 



Despite Newport's statement to the contrary, four distinct sub- 

 divisioas of the sternum are to be found in certain insects, as for exam- 

 ple in the thorax of Nemura (pi. I). The terminology' proposed 

 by MacLeay has not been adopted for the following reasons: the 

 names prsesternum, sternum, sternellum, and poststernellum imply 

 a relation between these subdivisions of the sternum and the prsc- 

 scutum, scutum, scutellum and postscutellum, as MacLeay intended 




1909.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



33 



that they should. This relation, however, does not exist, for these 

 subdivisions do not represent four annuli, as assumed by MacLeay. 

 Furthennore, there is this very serious objection to MacLeay's termi- 

 nology, that the designation sternum cannot be applied to a subdivision 

 of the sternal region, since Audouin employed the name sternum to 

 designate the whole ventral region of the segment, and it is in the latter 

 sense that the term is every^vhere used. Lastly, since MacLeay has 

 neither seen, figured nor described these regions, but merely assumes 

 their existence ba^al upon a fallacious hypothesis, his terminology is 

 not binding. 



Comstock, '02. although he makes no mention of MacLeay, has at- 

 tempted to apply MacLeay 's terminology to the sternal region. Un- 



FiR. 17. 



Fin. IS. 



Fig. 17. — C'(HiYD.\i,i.s. — Ventral view ot iiicsotiiorax. Stcrnuiu and plrura spnad 

 out in OIK- plain.'. Legs .sliortcnt'd. 



Fig. IS. — nYUiioi'.sYCiiE. — Ventral view of pro- and nie.so-thoracic sterna an<l 

 pleura, .spread out in one plane. Only the l^a^al portions of the coxa- 

 re pres«'n ted. 



fortunately l>oth of Com.stork'.s figures (pj). 24 and 25) are of the 

 metathoracic segmnit, and what he terni.s the sternellum is tlic fii"st 

 alKlominai .storniun. Thi.s accounts for the fact that he found no 

 " posts tornellum. " 



The Prcvslcrnum. — The natuc pnpsterninn is the only ouv of Coni- 

 stook's and .NLicLi-ay'.s tenn.s here a«l()pte<l, since only the pra'sternum 

 in Coiastock's figure of Plrronarcys (p. 24) has a correi'ponding region 

 in the sternum of Nemurd (pi. I, .S,). This term, ho\Y('ver, ha.^ 

 been adopte<l witliout reference to Meincrt'.'*, '07, pnesternum. men- 

 tioned in his description of Japyx. 



Tlie Japygida* are such rare iasects that the writer was unable to 

 procure a specimen for dis.section, and it is therefore inipo.'vsible to 

 state here, with any degree of certainty, to what extent the prassternum 

 3 




34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



and poststernum of Mcinert correspond to the regions here designated 

 as the spini- and furci-sternuni. Mcinert gives no description of liis 

 prae- and post-sternum, other than the brief statement that they are 

 chitinized double folds lying between the segments. Verhoeff, '04, 

 and Borner, '03, make no attempt to employ Meinert's terms in their 

 figures, but from a study of these illustrations one might hazard the 

 opinion that Meinert's presternum does not correspond to Comstock's, 

 '02, praesternum at all, but is probably the furci-sternum, later 

 described. 



In all probability the prsesternum is merely a portion of the large 

 sternite lying behind it, and exists as a separate piece in but few insects. 

 It is usually the first sternite to disappear, and its small size makes it 

 of relatively little importance. 



The Basi-slernum. — Just behind the prajstcrnum is a large sternite 

 forming the greater part of the sternal region. This sclerite, which 

 may be termed the basi-sternum (pi. I, S^), is frequently fused with 

 the anterior laterale and katepisternal complex to form the "sterno- 

 pleura" of Osten-Sacken, '84. The basi- and furci-sternum are 

 usually symmetrically divided by a longitudinal furrow — the "mid- 

 ventral" suture. 



The Furci-sternum. — Immediately caudad of the basi-sternmn is u 

 somewhat smaller sternite, which bears the furca or internal forked 

 process of the sternum. On this account the sclerite in question ha,"* 

 been termed the furci-sternum. In the swiftly flying insects there is 

 usually an internal "mid-ventral lamella," or ridge corresponding to 

 the mid-ventral suture, and as this is frequently continuous with the 

 shaft of the furca, it may appear as though the base of the furcal shaft 

 arises in the basi-sternum. This, however, is only a secondary modi- 

 fication, for in the primitive forms the furci-sternum alone bears the 

 paired apophyses. Externally it is a comparatively easy matter to 

 distinguish Ixitween the basi-sternum and the furci-sternum, even when 

 these are not entirely separate sclerites, as traces of the "intrasternal" 

 suture (which separates the basi-sternal from the furci-sternal region) 

 are retained in a great number of iasects. 



In the Gryllidifi the furci-sternum (which is very closely connected 

 with the basi-sternum) is bent inward, so that its surface forms an 

 angle with that of the basi-sternum. This bending inward of the furci- 

 sternum causes it to be concealed by the sclerites which follow it 

 and this doubtless accounts for the fact that Voss, '04, did not mention 

 this region in his description of the thorax of Gryllus. The furci- 

 sternum has been figured in the Coleoptera, but no attempt has been 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35 



made to designate it by any especial term, except that Comstock. '04, 

 terms it the antecoxal piece. This, however, is not the antecoxal 

 piece of Comstock, '02, nor of Walton, '00, and most assuredly does 

 not represent the antecoxal plates of Leconte, '61. 



In the Blattidae (pi. Ill), the furci-sternum of the meso- and meta- 

 thorax is somewhat "T"-shaped, and the internal paired apophyses ari' 

 borne one at the end of each arm of the "'T". Each of the outer 

 openings of the hollow apophyses is covered by a sclerite which may 

 be termo<l the "tegmentary sclerite" (pi. Ill, Tg). The function 

 of these "tegmentary" sderites is doubtless to keep dust, etc., from 

 collecting in the hollows of the apophyses. Miall and Denny, '86, state 

 that there is no ante-furca {i.e., prothoracic furca) in the cockroach; 

 nevertheless paired apophyses which correspond to the meso- and 

 meta-thoracic furca are to be found in the prothorax, if sufficient care 

 be taken in searching for them. The specimen should be slit along 

 the mid-dorsal suture, placed in 10% caustic pota«:h, and left in the 

 paraffin oven until the soft parts can be easily washed away by driving 

 currents of water against them with a pipette. If the soft parts arc 

 removed with forceps the apophyses, which are very deUcate and 

 somewhat transparent, are usually plucked off before one discover 

 them. This doubtless accounts for the fact that these structures wore 

 not found by Miall and Denny. 



The prothoracic furci-sternum of Nemura (pi. I, S\) is diviiled into 

 two pieces; in the Trichoptcra (fig. 18, .S'3) it is a single plate, drawn out 

 longitudinally, while in the Blattiilaj (pi. HI, .S",) it is a somewhat 

 oval transverse sclerite. 



In the meso- and meta-thorax, the furci-sternum is frequently 

 separated from the basi-sternum merely by the "intra-sternal" suture. 

 The furci-sternum is usually connected with the katepimeral complex 

 l)y the narrow antecoxal laterale (fig. 3, Lb), and may likewise In- 

 ronnecte<l with the epimeron by a bridge-like strip extending beiiiiiti 

 the leg. In the Trichoptcra (fig. 18) this strip {S"^-Em'') dips i>elow 

 the surface of the IxkIv. and reappears just before it is joined with 

 the epimeron. In those insects in which the coxal cavity is enclostnl 

 posterioraliy the coxa; are fref|uently clwely apprf)ximate<l, and that 

 [)ortion of the furci-sternum between them is foldetl togetller. This 

 is well sliown in the Trichoptcra (fig. 18), and in these insects the 

 "pedal region" of the furci-sternum (^S'jp) extends along the niesal 

 surface of the coxa, with which it is ver>' closely cf)nnectc<l. 



It is perhaps of some interest to note that in the Trichoptcra the 

 pleural suture is continueil in the "coxal suture" (between Uic memn 




36 PROCEEDINGS OF THK ACADEMY OF [.lau., 



and eucoxa), and is extended through the pedal region of tlie furci- 

 sterniun {i.e., the "furcal suture") and up the other side of the insect. 

 With the "intertergal" space (between the postscutcllum and the 

 roniaindcr of the terguni) it may separate the segment into two rings, 

 but, from reasons previously given, it is not at all probable that this 

 indicates that the segment is double. 



Behind the furci-sternum {S'3) in Nemura (pi. I) are two plates 

 (.S'apf) which may be termed the post-f ureal sclerites. These occur in 

 but few insects, and are relatively unimportant. 



The Spini-sternum. — Behind the furci-sternum is a smaller sternite, 

 wiiich bears an internal unpaired apophysis, the "spina," and may 

 hence be termetl the spini-sternum. This sclerite varies greatly in size 

 and shape, and is never very large. 



The prothoracic spini-sternum is the most constant, and occurs in a 

 large number of insects. In the Blattidae (pi. Ill, S\) it is very long 

 and narrow, while the prothoracic spini-sternum of Nemura (pi. I, 

 S\) is drawn out transversely into two wing-like processes. In the 

 Trichoptera (fig. 18, S\) and Xyelida it is very small, and in many 

 insects it is represented only by the endoskeletal "spina" or unpaired 

 pophysis. 



The prothoracic spini-sternum (pi. Ill, S\) usually lies just in front 

 of the basi-sternum of the mesothorax, being much nearer to the meso- 

 thorax than to the prothorax. Again, in certain insects (Corydalis 

 for example) the mesothoracic spini-sternum is united with the meta- 

 thorax, but in each case the musculature clearly indicates to which 

 segment the sclerite in question belongs. 



In the Blattidae (pi. Ill, S'"i) the metathoracic spini-sternum is a 

 distinct sclerite, but in Nemura (pi. I, S"\) it is united with the furci- 

 sternum, and in most insects it is indistinguishably fused with the 

 latter sternite. As has been mentioned, the praesternum is usually 

 fiLsed with the basi-sternum (except in a few insects such as Nemura, 

 Ectobia, etc.) and the spini-sternum frequently Ues directly in front of 

 tlie basi-sternum. On this account it would seem very probable that 

 Meinert's, '67, praesternum corresponds to the spini-sternum, rather 

 than the prajsternum of Comstock, '02, and the writer. This, however, 

 is mere supposition, and cannot be determined until specimens of 

 Japyx can be obtained for dissection. 



Amaas, '85, divides the sternum into two regions, the ante- and post- 

 sternum. The former of these two regions may possibly correspond 

 to the prse- and basi-sternum, and the latter to the furci- and spini- 

 stemum, but it is impossible to determine this from Amaas' descrip- 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 37 



tions, as he gives no boundaries for his two regions, other than the 

 statement that they are separated by the coxal cavities. His post- 

 sternum is apparently not the same as Meinert's, '67, and is surely not 

 the poststernum of Petri, '99, as the latter sclerite is the meron. 

 Amans' division of the sternum would be of no service in such insects 

 as Nemura, or in the Blattidae, where the coxal cavities do not divide 

 the sternum at all. On this account, and because the sternum is not 

 divided into two but into four sternites. Amans' terminology will not 

 be further considered. 



Voss, '04, states that the spini-sternum corresponds to Comstock's, 

 '02, sternellum; but, as we have seen, Comstock's, '02, sternellum is 

 the first abdominal sternum — except in the neck region, where liis ster- 

 nellum and sternum are doubtless detached portions of the praesternum. 

 If Comstock had found the four sternal regions, he would doubtless 

 have termed the spini-sternum the poststernellum, as he .states (p. 25), 

 "A poststernellum corresponding to the postscutellum has not been 

 observed." 



The Inter-segmentalia. — In front of the laterale, on either side 

 of the mesothorax of such insects as the Trichoptera, Xyelidae, etc., 

 is a sclerite which is doubtless a detached portion of the laterale. This 

 sclerite may be termed the praelaterale (fig. 18, /J. Surrounding the 

 spiracle is a number of small plates, the "peritremal sclerites," and 

 between them and the pleuron of the preceding segment is a detached 

 portion of the pleuron, which may be termed the post-pleural sclerite 

 (/p). All of the above-mentioned sclerites will be included under 

 the general term intersegmentalia, as they lie in the intersegmental 

 membrane, more or less separated from the segment to which thoy 

 belong. 



Voss, '04, claims that the musculature of the fii*st and second thoracic 

 spiracles indicates that they belong to the segment behind which tliey 

 are situated — that is, that the first is the prothoracic spiracle, and the 

 second is the mesothoracic one. The third spiracle Voss a.'^signs to 

 the first abdominal segment, as do most other investigatoi-s. 



Heymons, '95, concludes from his embryological studies tiiat the 

 spiracle does not belong to the segment preceding it, but to the segment 

 in front of which it is locate<l. He states that in the early embryonic 

 stages, the primordia of the spiracles lie in the anterior portion of their 

 corresponding segments; as development proceeds, the spiracle may 

 migrate forward and become attached to the segment in front of it, 

 but this is only a secondary' modification. 



Palm^n, '77. proposed the theory tjiat the first thoracic spiracle may 




38 



PROCEEDINGS OK THE ACADr^MY OF 



[Jan. 



Fig. 19. 



L-_>-^. 



Figs. 19, 20 and 21. — Represent the ventral and lateral sclerites of a segment 

 of the Cursoria (Orthoptera) spread out in one plane. Fig. 20 represents a 

 hypothetical starting point in the formation of the pleural and sternal sclerites 

 of these insects. The dotted lines indicate wlicre divisions may occur. Fig. 

 19 represents the modification found in the Forficulida?, and Fig. 21 that 

 found in the Blattidse. The diagonal lines in the basi-stemum (fig. 21) illus- 

 trate the condition found in the prothorax of Ectobia. 




1909. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



39 



Fig. 21. 



<> ""■■ 



'i. 





be prothoracic in some insects and mesothoracic in others, but this 

 view iloes not seem to have a very \\'ide acceptance. 



The embrj'ological proof seems to be in favor of Heymons view, 

 and it is certainly the case that the musculature of such iasects as the 

 Blattidse indicates that the spiracles belong to the segment behind 

 them rather than to the preceding one. It is possible, however, to 

 designate the spiracles as the first thoracic spiracle, second thoracic 

 spiracle, etc., without specifying to which segment they belong, and 

 this usage has been here adopted. 



In the thora.x of Japyx there occurs an extra spiracle, which has 

 given rise to much discussion, but all speculation as to its homology 

 can be of no value until the musculature and embryology of Japyx 

 have been carefully studied with a view to determining this point. 



In insects other than Japyx, most investigatoi-s now agree in desig- 

 nating the third spiracle as the first abdominal one. It would appear 

 that Latreille's, '20-'22, designating the first abdominal segment the 

 "segment mediaire" is rcspoasible for much of the dispute wliidi 

 later arose concerning this segment, especially in the Diptera and 

 arculeatc Ilymenoptera; and it is hard to undei"stand why certain 

 UKKlern systematists — Schniie<leknecht, '07, for example — persist in 

 using Latreille's confusing terminology. The first abdominal segment 

 is the first abdominal segment, no matter where it is located, and if 

 it be (h'signatetl by its proper name, there can be no dispute as to its 

 homology or that of its spiracle. 



The Cervicum. — Between the iiead and the i)r<>thorax i.^^ a narrower 

 neck region whose softer walls give a greater freedom of motion for 

 the head. Embeddofl in the membranous integument of this region 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADKMY (U^ [Jan.. 



are a number of plates which serve to slnMiiithcMi ils walls, and furnish 

 an articulation for the head (pi. Ill, C\^, C.,2, etc.). The mnnher of 

 these sclerites varies greatly, being the most numerous in the Orthop- 

 tera, while in certain Coleoptera they are entirely wanting. 



The neck region has been designated as the "Mikrothorax" by 

 Verhoeff, '02, who at fii"st considered this as a fourth segnuMit of e(iual 

 rank with the pro-, meso- and meta-thorax. There appear to be very 

 grave tloubts as to the correctness of this view, and since ever}^ inves- 

 tigator who ha-s dealt with this subject terms the region in question the 

 "neck," "Nacken." "cou," etc., according to the language in which 

 the article is written, it seems preferable to designate the neck l)y the 

 Latin term cervicum — a purely typographical designation, and one 

 which is already implied in the expression "cervical plates," applied 

 to its sclerites for more than eighty yeai-s. As has been stated, Ver- 

 hoefT, '02, terms the cervicum the "Mikrothorax," and at fii-st con- 

 sidered it a fourth thoracic segment similar to the pro- meso-, ami 

 meta-thorax. Later, however, he designated this "Mikrothorax" as 

 one of the so-called complementary segments (" Vordersegmente") 

 which he states can be found in front of each chief segment of the 

 thorax; and, in addition, he described the remains of an intercalary 

 segment in front of each of the above-mentioned thoracic segments. 



In the earlier works there has been much speculation as to the origin 

 of the cervical sclerites, antl the question is still a very hotly debated 

 one. 



The first of these theories is that of Strauss-Durkheim, '28, who 

 states that in the neck region of the Forficulid«, one can find traces 

 of the sterna and pleura of two segments formerly existing between 

 the prothorax and the head. He had thus long ago expressed exactly 

 the same theory, founded upon the same insects, that Verhoefif uses to 

 illustrate his microthorax theoiy, yet Verhoeff states that "es klingt 

 zwar sonderbar, dass bei den von Hunderten von Forschern studierten 

 lasekten dergleichen (d. h. ein vorn am Thorax befindliches bisher 

 libersehenes segment) noch gefunden werden soil, ist aber tatsiichlich 

 so." 



The second theory is that of Huxley, '85. In describing the neck 

 plates he says: "I think it is probable that these cervical sclerites 

 represent the hindermost of the cephaUc somites" — in other words, 

 he regards the cervicum as the labial segment. Comstock, '02, adoj)ts 

 this view, and proposes that the appendages of the cervicum are the 

 second maxillae which leave their segment and, migrating forward, fuse 

 to form the labium. He likewise makes use of Carriere's, '98, theory, 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41 



that the salivary glands are modified trachea, to explain the fact tiiut 

 the prothorax has no spiracles. Comstock claims that the protiioracie 

 spiracles are drawn along with the migrating maxilla^ and, becoming 

 united, form the opening of the salivaiy glands, into which their corre- 

 sponding tracheae have changed. He regards the lateral cervicals as 

 the episternum and epimeron of the labial segment, and the internal 

 process between these he explains as the endopleural apodeme of this 

 "segment." Voss, '04, arrived at much the same conclusion from his 

 study of the musculature, and Riley likewise consider that the cervical 

 sclerites belong to the second maxillary segment, from his embryological 

 investigations. 



The third theory is that of Newport, '39, who proposes that the 

 cervical sclerites are detached portions of the prothorax, and repre- 

 sent the paraptera (laterale?) of the meso- and mcta-thorax. Bonier, 

 '03, likewise considers that the cervicals are prothoracic plates whicji 

 have become detached from the sternal region of that segment. 



In an earlier paper (Crampton. '08) it was suggested that the cervi- 

 cals possibly correspond to the "intersegment alia" found between the 

 pro- and meso-thorax, and that the internal hollow process between the 

 lateral cervicals might represent the remains of the trunk of a i)r()- 

 thoracic trachea. It is quite comprehensible that a strongly chitinizod 

 tracheal stem, such for example as that of a Perlid, could serve as a 

 nuiscle support, and, furthermore, it is possiljle for muscles to become 

 attached to the trachea without interfering with their respiratoiy 

 function, as is shown in certain Arachnoidea. In the case of the pro- 

 thoracic trachea?, it was proposed that their trunks, being in a favorable 

 position to serve as a support for the head muscles, were preserved by 

 a change of function, while the remaining portion of the trachea; would 

 be subjected to the same influences which caused the disappearance nf 

 the tracheiB in the buccal somites. 



This theory would seem no more ini])r(il)alil(' llian Comstock's, '02, 

 view that the apodemes of the i)ro-, mcso- and nicta-thorax arc tra- 

 cheal vcstige>i, and is by no means so startling a.s Carriere's, '98, the<try 

 that the salivary glands are modified trachea?. Iiwleed, the views of 

 Palmi^n. '77, Ilatschek, '77. Wheeler, 'SJ), and C'arriere, '9S, who 

 claim that the tentorium (whicji likewi.se serves as a nui.scle support ) 

 is composed of modified trachea?, render the theory that the cervical 

 apodeme is a modified trachea all the more probal)le; and I'almen's, 

 '77, statement that there are traces of a tracheal invagination in the 

 neck region of the embryo likewise lends weight to the above-ni( n- 

 tionc'l them V. However, tipon looking into the su])ject more carefully. 




■*- PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [.hvil., 



it woulil appear that these theories dealing \vith n chaiigo of function 

 have not been sufficiently well established, and it would be nuich 

 simpler to explain the origin of the cervical apodeme as a drawing 

 inward of a portion of the integument (or a corner of one of tiie sclerites) 

 flue to muscular tension. 



Even if the theory of the tracheal nature of the cervical apodemes be 

 rejected, this does not preclude the possibility that the peritremal 

 sclerites which lay in front of the prothorax, may have taken part in 

 the formation of the cervical sclerites. The musculature of these 

 plates could admit of such an interpretation, and it would be only 

 natural that such sclerites should be the most developed in the cervical 

 region, where they would serve not only as supports for the attachment 

 of the head muscles, but also as strengthening plates for the membrane 

 of the neck. 



Verhoeff's, '02, theory seems very iin})rol)able from the fact that no 

 traces of a " mikrothoracic " segment are to be found in the embryo, 

 and none of the segmental structures show any indications of a dupli- 

 cation. On the other hand, if the theory tliat the cervical sclerites 

 represent the labial segment be accepted, how can one account for the 

 occurrence of similar plates in front of the meso- and meta-thorax, 

 for these surely cannot be likewise interpreted as labial segments? 



Voss, '04, attempts to show from the musculature that the cervicum 

 is the labial segment, but it would appear that the cervical muscles 

 are for the most part attached to the occiput, and not to the labium. 

 Furthermore, Riley, '04, himself states that the pleura of the labium 

 are in the occiput region, yet he speaks of the lateral cervicals as the 

 ))leurites of the second maxillae, without giving any reason for thus 

 assigning them to the labial segment. 



It is possible that certain detached portions of the labial segment 

 may enter into the formation of the cervical sclerites, but it is not any 

 more correct on this account to designate the cervicum as the labial 

 segment, than it would be to term the intersegmental! a between the 

 first two thoracic segments, the prothorax. The ventral cervical 

 sclerites, termed by Comstock, '02, the labial sternum and sternellum, 

 appear to be detached portions of the prothoracic sternum, while tlie 

 lateral cervicals may possibly correspond to the "intersegmentalia" 

 between the pro- and meso-thorax, and the dorsal cervicals are probably 

 detached portions of the pronotum." 



" In assuming that the cervicals are formed partially from prothoracic scler- 

 ites, it must be borne in mind that certain other factors, such as mechanical 

 friction, etc., may have produced certain of these sclerites. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43 



In most Hymenoptera, the prothoracic pleura are very closely con- 

 nected with the cervical sclerites, and in many insects of this family 

 the pleura of the prothorax are almost indistinguishably fused with 

 the lateral cervicals. On this account the term cervico-propleura 

 has been here applied to the lateral portions of this region in the 

 Hymenoptera. 



If one observe a Macroxyela (or a Tenihredo), a wasp and an ant, 

 in the order above mentioned, it may readily be seen that the cervico- 

 l^ropleura (fig. 13. C.Pl) gradually approach one another on the ventral 

 surface, and almost completely conceal the small prosternum (fig. 14, 

 S'). In such a case, the ventral portion of the cervico-propleura is 

 almost without exception incorrectly termed the "prosternum," and 

 even so careful an observer as Janet, '98, has been deceived in this 

 respect. Indeed, Rheinhard, '65, terms the entire cervico-propleuron 

 the prosternmn, as does Schmiedeknecht, '07, and a number of 

 others. 



As has been stated, the cervical sclerites may represent the "inter- 

 segmentaha," and, in addition, certain of the neck plates doubtless 

 owe their origin to mechanical friction. This brings us to the question 

 of the formation of sclerites in general. The prevalent opinion is that 

 the segments originally consisted of chitiiiized rings, which became 

 split between the pleura and tergal region to accommodate the wing; 

 and the pleura became separated from the sternal region to make room 

 for the leg. This view, however, is not borne out by the facts of onto- 

 genetic development, nor by the results of comparative morphological 

 study. In all of the very active larva:; studied, the sclerites of the ster- 

 num and pleura form as islands (pi. IV) which later unite to form the 

 chitinous integument. Again, in the adult stages of the lowest insects, 

 such as Japyx for example, even though there are no wings present, tiie 

 segments are not solid rings interrupted only at the base of the leg; 

 but consist for the most part of small individual sclerites. It is like- 

 wise the case that within the same family the sclerites of the general- 

 ized forms are more numerous and distinct, while in the more specialized 

 forms there is a marked tendency toward a fusion of the sclerites to 

 form a soUd ring; and even the segments them.'^elvcs tend to become 

 <-losely united. 



With regard to the origin f)f the sclerites, there are a numi)er of fac- 

 tors which might give rise to such chitinous plates. Among the chief 

 of these causes is doubtless the stimulus of nuiscular tension, wiiich 

 would serve to produce a chitinized thickening of the integument at 

 tlie points of origin and insertion. The sclerites tluis fonne<l would not 




44 



PROCEEDINGS OK THi: ACAOKMY OF 



only serve as firmer supports than the softer yieklin}!; integument al)out 

 them, but wouUl hkewise serve as protective phites. Contact with 

 external objects and mechanical irritation, such, for exani[)le, as the 

 rubbing of one part upon another, doubtless play no inconsiderai)le role 

 in the production of the sclerites. This was well illustrated in the case 

 of a young cricket, whose developing wing ]iads. liy rubbing on the 

 tergum upon which they rested, left tluMr outlines (listiiict]>- inipiintcd 

 in its integument. 



In aildition to the foiniation of chitinous areiis in the integuuicut, 

 by the stimulus of its tension, muscular stress may likewise bring al)out 

 the breaking up of the large chitinous plates, or cause their division 

 into smaller regions by producing the infolding of hollow ridges, as is 

 shown in the tergum" and pleura. Again, it is quite evident that 

 portions of chitinous regions may become detached by muscular ten- 

 sion and drawn into another region, as is shown in the case of the 

 "migration" of the meron; such instances, however, are very rare, 

 and this method would consequently play an unimportant role in 

 sclerite formation. 



However, the method of sclerite formation, the theories of segmental 

 duplication, etc., are questions of minor interest, as the purp(ise of 

 this paper is to deal with the comparison of the sclerites in the adult 

 in.sect. With regard to the homologizations and terminology at present 

 in vogue, it may readily be seen that entomologists are by no means 

 agreed in these mattei^s. Furthermore, the views here set forth fre- 

 quently differ very radically from those of other investigators, and on 

 this accoimt the following list, which to some extent anticipates certain 

 points which will be brought out in a subsequent publication, may be 

 of some service, not only to furnish a resume of the synonyms, etc., 

 applied to the various sclerites, but also to give a brief outline of the 

 results here reached : — 



Tin: Thorax. 



Thor.\x— Thor-vx (Nitzsrh, '18). 



It i.s composed of the pro-, meso- and mota-thorax. 



The "thorax" of Strauss-Diirkheim, '28, i.s the ine.so- plus the meta-tFiorax. 

 Kirby, '28, following P'abricius, Linne and theother earlier writers, restricts 

 the term thorax to the notum or tergnni, but these obsolete asages need 

 not be further dismissed liere. 

 Prothorax (')'* — Prothorax (Audouin, '20). 

 = Protothorax (Nitzsch, '18). 



" It is quite uncertain whetlier tlie postscutellum was separated from the 

 remainder of the tergum by muscular tension, or whether the postscutcMuin 

 was originally itself a distinct sclerite. 



•* The .signs given in parentheses refer to the method of indicating the region 

 in question in the different figures. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 45 



= Collum (Knoch, 1801). 



= Corselet (Strauss-Durkheim, '28). 



= Collier (Chabrier, '20). 



= Manitruncus (Kirby, '28). 



VerhoeflF's. '04, "proterothorax" is the prothorax plus the cervicum. 

 ".uEsoTHORAX (") — Mesothor-vx (Nitzsch, '18). 

 Metathorax ('") — Metathor.\x (Nitzsch, 'IS). 



The meso- plus metathorax = Knoch's, 1801, pectus. 



= Chabrier's, '20, tronc alif&re. 



= Kirby's, '28. alitruncus. 



= Strauss-Diirkheim's, '28, "thorax." 



Verhoeflf's, '04, "deuterothorax" = the mesothorax plus the metathorax 

 aud intersegmentalia. 



The Segment. 



Tekgum (N) — Tergum (.\udouin, '24). 

 = Notum (Burmeis'ter, '32). 



Escherisch's ('06) "mesonotuni'' (which, according to Burmeister, '32, 

 means the notum or tergum of the mesothorax) is the mesothoracic 

 scutum. 

 Pleukon {PI) — Pleuron (Amans, '85). 

 = Pleura (Audouin, '24). 

 Kirby's, '28, "pleura" is the epimeron. 

 Burmeister's, '32, "pleura" is the epistemum. 

 Sternum (<S) — Sternum (Audouin, '24). 



The sternum of Comstock, '05, is the basistemum. That of Comstock, '02, 

 is the basi- plus furci-sternum, except in the cerAical region, where it is 

 doubtless a portion of the praestemum. 



The Tergum. 



(For example, that of the Mesotliorax.) 



Pr-bscutu-m (.V",) — -Pu-EscuTUM (.\udouin, '32). 



(Tlie other uses of the word pnrscutum are given under the heading Me<li- 



scutum.) 

 = Proterophragma (Ivleuker, '83). 



= .\ntedorsum (.\mans, '85). In the Diptera, Amans', '85, and Petri's, 

 '99, antedorsum is the mediscutum. 

 ScuTU.M (.V,") — Scutum (Audouin, '32). 



Voss', 04, scutum is the scutum plus the scutellum. The scutum of Ham- 

 mond, 'SI. Kiinkel, '75-'Sl, Brauer, 'S2, Luwne, '90-'92, Packard, '98, 

 Hewitt. '07, a. o., is tlie parapsidoscutum. 

 = Dorsum (.Vmans, '85). 

 (According to Audouin, '32, tlie term dorsum refers to the wlioii- dorsal 



.surface of the insect ) 

 In tlie Diptera, Amans', '85, and Petri's, '99, "dorsum" is the parapsido- 

 .scutum. 

 Medi.scutum (N^a) — Mediscutum fCrampton, 'OS). 



= The pra>scutum of IJaiiiiiiond, 'SI, Kiuikel, '75-'Sl, Brauer, '82, Lowiie, 



'(K)-'92, Packard, '9S, Ilr-witt, '07, a. o. 

 ^- I'icheriscli's. '06, "mi-snn(itUMi. " 

 I'ak.M'sidoscutum (.V,!,) — I'ahai'sidoscutum (Crampton. 'OS). 

 = In part the parapsidcs of .MacLeay, '30. 

 = The scutum of Haminoiid, 'Si, a. o. 



= Escherisch's, '06, proscutclluin of the mesotliorax (liut according to 

 Audouin, '24, the term proscutellum refers to the protlioracic scutellum 

 alone). 

 = Emery's, '00, "paratteri" (i.e., parapsidcs?). 

 Ptekyooda (Pi) — "Ptehygodes" (I.atreiIIe, '20-'22). 

 - Tcgulie (Kirby, '28). 




46 



PROCEEDINliS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[.I ail., 



= Squamulne (MacLojiy, '.'W"). 

 = Hypoptero (Aiulouiii, '25). 

 = Parapton- (Audouin, '2o). 

 Hammond's parapteroii is the anopistcrnutn. 

 = "Hautp^lstcr" (Voss, '04). 

 ScuTELLUM (.Vg) — ScuTELLUM (Audoiiin, '24). 

 = Postdorsum (Amans, 'S5). 



IN)STSCUTELLUM (A'"^)" — POSTSCUTKLLUM (Audouill. '24). 



= Subpostdorsiim (.Vman.'^, 'S5). 



= Part of KlfuktTs. 'Sii. dcutcrophnigma. 



= "Postscutum" (Voss, '04). 



Brauor, '82, regards the upper portion of the dipteran postscutelhim as the 



entire postseutellum, and terms its lower portion th<' "pliragma." 

 Mediophk.vgmite (.Vja) — Mediophijagmitk (Crampton, 'OS). 

 Pleuuophh.vgmite (.V''^b) — PLKrROPHii-VGMiTE (Cramptoii, '08). 



The mesothoraeic pleurophragmite is Lowiie's, '90-'92, "lateral plate of 



the metathorax." 

 The mesothoraeic pleuropliragmite is Brauer's, '82, " ? Episternum dcs 



Metathorax" — ''walirselieinlieli der liest des Priescutums des Metatlior.ix 



imd zwar homolog mit der Ecke vor der Hiigelwiirzel." 

 = Hammond's, '81, "uncertain plate." 

 = Petri's, '99, metathoracic antepleura (i.e., episternum). The piece in 



question, however, belongs to the mesothorax. 

 = Osten-Sacken's, '64, "metapleura" (the term metapleura refers to the 



pleura (i.e., epiniera and episterna) of tlie metathorax). 

 P.vR.vPLEiKON (A'"'<bb) — Parapleure (Kolbc, '93). 

 Knoch's, 1801, "parapleurum" is the epimeron. 

 Cuxier's, '28, "parapleure" is the epimeron. 

 Ivirby's, '28, "parapleura" is the epimeron. 

 Burmeister's, '32, "parapleura" is the episternum. 

 Fieber's, '61, "parapleurum" is the epimeron. 

 Voss, '04, "parapleura" is the episternum. 

 Lacordaire's, '54, "parapleures" are the epimera and episterna. 



Thp: Pleuron (of the Mesothorax). 



EpivrERON (Em") — Epimeron (Audouin, '24). 

 = Pleurit (Heymons, '99). 

 = Parapleura (Kirby, '28, a. o.). 

 = Pleura (Burmeister, '32, a. o.). 

 = Anopleure (VerhoefT, '03). 

 = Postpleuron (Amans, '85). 

 Petri's, '99, mesothoraeic "postpleura" is the anepimeron. On the other 



hand, his metathoracic "postpleura "is the anepisternum. Lowne's, '90 '92, 



epimeron is the katepimeron. Jirauer's, '82, epimeron is the anepimeron. 

 Hammond's, '81, epimeron is the meron. 

 Sharp's, '95-'99, "epimeron?" in his figure of Blabera, is the trochanliiuis 



major. 

 Anepimeron {EM"a) — Anepimeron (of this paper). 

 = Hyperepimeron (Crampton, '08). 

 = Lowne's, '90-'92, episternum. 

 = Brauer's, '82, entire epimeron. The anepimeron ol the mesothorax. 



Petri, '99, terms the postpleura (i.e., epimeron), but his metathoracic 



postpleura is the anepisternum. 

 Katepimeron (EM\) — Katepimeron (of this paper). 

 = Hypoepimeron (Crampton, '08). 

 = Ix)wne's, '90-'92, entire epimeron. 

 The katepimeron of the mesothorax, Petri, '99, terms the metathonuic 



antestemum. 



" According to Snodgrass, '08, VerhoefT's p-seudonotuin and Berlese's acro- 

 tergite of the first abdominal .segment are liomologous with tlie postseutellum. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 47" 



Episternum (ES") — Episternum (Audouin, '24). 



= Parapleura (Burmeister, '32). 



= Pleura (Ivirby, '28). 



= Coxopleure (\'erhoeff, '03) in Forficula. In the Blattid*, \"erlioeff's 

 coxopleure is the episternum plus the anterior laterale. 



Conistock's, '02, and Walton's, '00, episternum in the Blattidse is the epi- 

 sternum plus the anterior laterale. 



Lowne's, '90-'92, episternimi is the anepimeron. 



Brauer's, '82, episternum is the katepisternum. 

 Anepisternum (ES"a.) — ^Anepistekxum (of tliis paper). 



= Plyperepistemum (Crampton, 'OS). 



= Lowne's, '90-92, "lateral plate." 



= The episternum of Brauer, '82, a. o. 



= Hammond's, '81, paraptcron. 



= Petri's, '99, antepleura of the mesothorax. On the other hand, his meta- 

 thoracic antepleura is the mesothoradc pleurophraginite. 

 Katepisternum (f^iS"k)— Katepisternum (of this paper). 

 KL\tepisteunal complex (ES"x) — Katepisternal complex (of this paper). 

 Lateil\le (L") — Laterale (Crampton, '08). 



= Voss, '04, coxosternum. 



Bomer's, '03, coxosternum is the epimeron, episternum and laterale. 



Verhoeff's, '97, co.xasternum is the fusion product of the sternum and coxa-. 

 .\nterior laterale (La) — Anterior laterale (of this paper). 

 Antecoxal laterale (Lb) — .\ntecox.\l l.\tehale (Crampton, '08). 



= "Antecoxal piece" (Walton, '00). 



Comstock's, '02. "antecoxal piece" is the antecoxal trochantin. 



Comstock's, '05, "antecoxal piece" is the furci-sternum. 



Leconte's, 'Gl-'62, "antecoxal plates" are the lateral cervicals. 



= Second antecoxal piece (Comstock, '02). 



= Verhoeflf's, '03, katopleure in the Blattidte. On the other hand, his kato- 

 pleure in the Dermiptera is the episternal laterale. In the prothorax of 

 Echinosoma, his katopleure is the sternal laterale. Bomer's, '03, katopleure 

 in the mesothora.x of Anisolabis is the episternal and sternal laterale. In 

 prothorax of Anisolabis it is the sternal laterale and the posterior lateral 

 cervicals. In the Blattida) his katopleure is tlie anteco.xal laterale. 

 Episternal laterals (L"j)— Episterxi-laterale (Crampton, '08). 



= Verhoeff's '03, katopleure in the Dermiptera. In the Blattida?, however 

 his katopleure is the antecoxal laterale. 

 Sternal laterale (L"2) — Sterni l.vterale (Crampton, '08). 



= Verhoeff's, '03, "Vorplatte" of the me.sothorax in tlie Blattidie. In lln^ 

 Blattid prothorax his "Vorplatte" is a lateral cervical. 

 Trochantinus (T) — Trochantinus (.MacLeay, '30). 



= Trodiantine (.Vudouiii, '24). 



= Kotule (Strau-ss-Diirkheim, '28). 



= Pra^coxal plate (Voss, '04). 

 .\\tecoxal TRoriLVNTiN (Ta") — Antfx'oxal trochantiv (Crampton, 'OS). 



= Antecoxal piece (Comstock, '02). 



The other u.sapes of the term anteco.xal piece arc f^ivcn under tlie ternrMnti-- 

 coxal laterale. 

 CoxAL trochantin (Tb") ^Coxal trochantin (Crampton, 'OS). 



= Comstock's, '02, entire trochantinus. 

 Trochantinu.s major ('/",) Trochantinu.s m.\jor (Crampton, '08). 



= Sliarp's "ej)inuTOM?" in Blaliera. 

 Trochantinu.s minor (7".,) -Trocmantini'.s minor (Crampton. 'OS). 



= Sharp's entire trocTi.'intinus in IHahrni. 

 EucoxA (C,)— EtICoXA (Verliocff. '04). 



= Coxa Kenuirui (Walton, '00). 

 •VIeron (CJ-MK'toN' (Walton, 'CM)). 



Jiomer 8, '03, rneron is the epimeron, epistenium ;ind laterale. 



= Metacoxa, Verlxx-ff, '04. 



The term metacoxa means tlie coxa of the met.-itliorax. 




4S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jail., 



Petri's, '90, noststormiitiof tluMucsotluirax is tlie moron. On thootlier luuid, 



his motatlioracif po.ststornuin is tlic katcpinioron. 

 Brauor's, 'SJ, Lowiio's, '•)()-'92. and Hewitt's, '07, sternum of the dipteran 



metathorax is tlie mesotlioracic meron. 

 .\ccordinp to Packard. '*.)S, the moron is tlio trochantinus, while Sharp, '95- 

 '99, dosipiatos it as a fold of tlie opimoron. 

 Sternum (.S") — Stkuntm (.Vudouin, '21). 



The stenimn of Comstock, '02, is the bjusi- anil furci-st(>rmim, except in the 

 cervical rejjion where it is doubtlos.s a detached portion of the pra^sternuiii. 

 Comstock's, '0.5, stenunn is the basi-stermim. 



Brauor's, '82, mesosterniun is tlio mesothoracic katepisternal complex, the 

 latorale and the hasistornum. On the other hand, his metasternum is 

 the mosotlioracic moron. 

 Petri's. '99. antostornum of the mcsothorax is likewise the katepisternal 

 complex, latorale and basisterniim (as in tlie ca.so witii Lowne's, '90 '92, 

 "plastron," and.Osten-Sackon's, '64, "sternopleura") ; his motathoracic 

 antesternum, however, is the mesothoracic katepimeron. 

 PK.E.STEK.NUM (vS"j) — Pr.ester.n'u.m (Comstock, '02). 



Meinert's, '67, pnrsternum is probably the spinistemum. 

 Ii.\si.'<TERNU.M {S"2) — Basisternum (Oampton, 'OS). 

 FuRCisTERNUM (^'"s) — FuRCLSTERNUM (C'rampton, '08). 



= Comstock. '04, "antecoxal piece." 

 Spinisterni'm (Si) — Spinisterxum (Crampton, '08). 

 Cervictm (Cs) — Cervicum (Crampton, '08). 

 = Mikrothorax (N'erhoeff, '02). 



Bibliography. 



1880. Adolph. Ueber Insektenfiugel. Nov. Act. Abh. d. k. Loop. Carol, doutscli- 



Akad. d. Naturf., Bd. XLI, 2. 

 1885 Am-VNS. Comparaison des organes du vol dans la s6nc animale. .\nii. 



Soi. Nat., VI ser., Zool., T. XIX. 

 1820. AuDOCiN. L'anatomie comparative des parties solides des insectes. 



Pr<^entee par M. Cuvier. Ann. Gen. Sci. Phys., T. VII. 

 1,S24. . Recherches anatomiques sur le Thorax des animaux articul6s. 



Ann. Sci. Nat., T. I, .sor. 1. 



1825. . Article "In.sectes, " dans la Dictionnaire Classique d'Histoire 



Naturelle dir, par Bory de Ste. Vincent, Paris, T. VIII. 



1832. . Exposition de l'anatomie du Thorax. Par W. S. MacLeay 



Accompagn<^>e de Notes par M. Audouin. .Ann. Sci. nat., T. XXV, ser. 1 



1884 \yers. On the Development of (Ecanthus niveus. Mem. Boston Soc 

 Nat. Hist., Vol. III. 



1826. V. Baer. Ueber dits Aussere u. innere Skelett dor Insckten. Meckel's 

 Archiv. .\nat. Phy.siol. 



1880. Balfour. Handbuch dor vergl. Anat. 



1S93. Banks. Notes on the Mouth Parts and Thorax of In.sects. Am. Nat. 



1904 _ Notes on the Structure of the Thorax and Maxillae of Insects. 



Proc. Ent. Soc. Washington, Vol. VI. 

 1882. Berlese. Osservazioni sulla anatomie del Gryllus campestris. Atti 



Soc. Veneto Trent, Padova, Vol. VII.. 

 ISW). V. Bensdorff. Abloitung der skulpturverhaltnisse bei Coleopteron- 



flugeln. Zool. An/.., 13 Jahrg. 

 1902 BoRNER. Die GUederung der Laufboine der Atolocorata. Sitzbr. 



Gesell. Natf. Fr. Berlin, No. 9. 



ig()3jj _ Ueber die lieingliodorung der Arthropoden. IhicJ., Nr. 7. 



\(K)S\y. . Kritischo Bemerkungon iiber einige Vergleichendmorpholo- 



gische Untersuohungon K. W. \'orhoeff's. Zool. Anz., lid. 26. 

 ]()().\ _ Zur Kliirung dor lieinglioderung der Ateloccraten. Zool. Anz., 



Bd. 27. 

 I.s9(t. BoRDAGE. Probable mode of formation of the fasion between femur 



and Trochanter in Artliropoda. Ann. .Mag. Nat. Hist., Vol. III. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPmA. 49 



1882. Brauer. Ueber das Segment m^diaire Latreille. Sitzb. Kais. .\kad. 

 Wiss. Wien.-Math. Nat. Klasse, Bd. LXXV, Abt. I. 



1885. . Systematisch-Zoologische Studien. Ibid., Bd. XCI, Abt. I. 



19<)3. Breed. The changes which occur in the muscles of a Beetle, Thymalus 



marginicoUis, during metamorphosis. Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. Cambridge, 

 Vol. XL. No. 7. 



1890. Brongniart. Xote sur quelque insectes fossiles du terrain houiller 

 presentent au prothorax des appendices aliformes. Bull. Soc. Philom., 

 T. II, 8* Ser. 



1882. Brooks. Handbook of Invertebrate ZoologA'. Boston. 

 1832. Burmeister. Handbuch der Entomologie. Berlin. 



1869. Brandt. Beitriige zur Entwicklungsgeschichte der Libelluliden und 

 Hemipteren. Mom. Acad. St. Petersb., 7. Ser., T. 13, Xo. 31. 



1870. BuETscHLi. Zur Entw-icklungsgescliichte der Biene. Zeit. ^^■iss. Zool., 

 Bd. XX. 



1890a. C.\RRiERE. Die Embryonalentwicklung von C'halicodoma muraria. 



Zoll. Anz., Jahrg. 13. 

 1890b. . Die Entwicklung der Mauerbiene. Arcli. Mik. Anat., Bd. 



XXXV. 



1898. Carriere and Buerger. Die Entw-icklungsgeschiclito der .Mauerbiene 

 im Ei. Xova. Acta .\bh. Kais. Leop. Carol. -Akad. Xaturf. Halle, Bd. 

 LXIX. 



1886. ('HftLoDKow.sKY. Zur Morphologic der Insektenfiugel. Zool. .\nz., 

 9. Jahrg. 



1887. . Ueber die Prothorakalanhilnge der Lepidopteren. Zool. .Anz., 



Jahrg. 13. 



1891. . Die Embryonalentwicklung von Blatta germanica. 



1889. . Studien zur Ent«ickhmgsgeschichte der Insekten. Zeit. \\'iss. 



Zool., Bd. 48. 

 1820. Chabrier. Essai sur le vol des Insectes. M^m. Mus. Hist. Nat., Paris, T. 7. 



1822. . Essai sur le vol des Insectes. Ibid., T. 8. 



1898-99. Co.MSTOCK and Needham. The Wings of Insects. Am. Nat., ^"ol. 

 22 and 23. 



1902. CoMSTOCK and Kochi. The Skeleton of the Head of Insects. Ibid., 

 Vol. 36. 



1904. CoMSTOCK and CoMsTorK. .\ Manual for the Study of Insects. Ithaca. 

 1853. CoRNELiis. lieitriige zur niiliren Kenntnis von Periplancta orientalis. 



Elberfeld. 

 1908. CHAMfTox. Ein Beitrag zur Homologie dor Tliorakal-Sklorite der 



In.'iokton (Kapitol II). Inaug. I)i.><s., Berlin. 



1823. ("rviER. Happort sur les recherches anatomiques .sur le thorax des 

 animau.x articules par .M. .Audouin. Paris. 



182X. . \jvs Insectes; dans le Hf^gne animal, Vol. I. 



1841. Di'Fot'R. Recherches anatomiques et physiologiques sur les Orthop- 



t^ros .... Mem. .\rad. Hoy. Sci. Institut de France, T. \'II, ser. 2. 

 1907. DiKRKEN. Die Tracheenkieineiunii.skulatur der Epliemeriden. . . . 



Z«-it. U'iss. Zool.. Hd. .S7. 

 1900. Emkrv. Intorno al Torao- <l(lle Fonniche. Hull. Soc. Ent. Ital., 32. 



1903. E.NDEHi.Kiv. Leber die Morpiiologie .... di-r Corroilentien. Zool. 

 Anz.. lid. 26. 



IS38-.39. Erkh-son. Die Kiifer der Mark Brati<liiil>urg. Herliu. 



1906. EscHERicH. Die .\mei.se. Hratmschwcig. 



1820. EsrH.scHOLTZ. H<-schreiburig des innereu skch-tts einigcr Iiisekti-u au.s 



Versehiedeiicn Dnliiungen. J'anders Jieitrage zur Natiirkuiide uu.s di-n 



( )Hf seepri)vjnzeii Husslands. 

 1896. Faiuie. Etudes .sur les Locasteens. .Ann. Sci. Nat. Zool., s<'t. S, T. I. 

 1861. FiKHKH. Die europaisciien Hemiptera nach <ler analytisclion Meth<Klr 



In-arbeiti't. W'ir'ii. 



1899. FoLSOM. Th»* Segmentation (»f the Insect Head. Psyche, \'(>l. S. 



19(K). . Tlie Devr-lonincnt of tin- Mouth-part.s of .\nurida maritima. Hull. 



Mus. Comp. Zool., Vol. 3<>. 



4 




50 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



1877. Gr.\rer. Die Insoktcn. Miinchoii. 



1881-83. Go.scH. On Latreille's Thwrv of \o yogment iiK-diaiif. Nntiirli. 



Tidsk. Kjohonhjmi. Ill Koi-kkc. " i:i Mind. 

 1887. Ghas.si. Anatoniia ouniparatii dii Ti.sanuri. Atti Heal. .Vcaii. l-inoei, 



4 s(5r.. \'ol. IV. 

 1832. Ghifkiths. Insects, Animal Ivingdom. 

 1903. GiUKNUERG. Die Honiologio dcs Trochanters bci Cliilopoden u. Insektcn. 



Sitz. lier. Gesell. Naturf. Herlin. 

 1886. Haase. Die Protliorakalanliange der Insekten. Zool. Anz. and Jahrg. 

 1889a. . Die Ziisaniniensetzung des K6rpers der Schaben. Sitzb. Berlin. 



GescUsch. Naturf.. No. G. 



1889b. . Zur Anatoniie der Rlattiden. Zool. Anz., No. 303. 



1889c. . Die Abdoniinalanluinge der Insekten mit Beriicksichtigung der 



Myriopoden. Morph. Jahrb. 

 1889. IIagkn. Ueber die friiheren Zustande der Libellen nebst Andeutung 



ul)er Bildung des Thorax. Stetiner Entom. iJeit^ 5. Jahrg. 

 ISSl. IIa.m.mund. On the Tliorax of the Blow-fly. Jour. Linn. Soc. London, 



ZuologA', Vol. 15. 

 1906-8. Handlirsch. Die fossilen In.sekten. Leipzig. 



1893. Hansen. Zur Morphologic der Gliedmassen u. Mundteile bei Crustaceen 

 u. Insekten. Zool. Anz., Bd. 16. 



1894. . On the Structure and Habits of Ileniimerus talpoides. Ent. 



Tidsk.. Arg. 15. 



1907. Hewitt. The Structure, Development and Binomics of the Hou.se-fly. 



Quart. Jour. Mic. Sci., No. 203. 

 1823. Heusinger. Vorvort u. Naehschrift zum Aufsatz von T. Tlion iiber 



das Skelett der Kiifer. Meckels. Archiv. f. Anat. U. Physiol, Abh. 20, Bd. 8. 

 1889. Heider. Die Embryonalentwicklimg von Hydrophilus piceus. Theil I. 



Jena. 

 1895a. Heymons. Die Segmentierung des Insektenkorpers. Anhang Abh. 



Kgl. preuss. Akad. Wien. 

 1895b. . Die Embryonalentwicklung von Dermipteren u. Orthopteren. 



Jena. 

 1899. . Beitrage zur Morphologie u. Entwicklungsges. der Rhynchoten. 



Al)li. K. L. Carol. Deutscli. Akad. Naturf., Bd. 74, No. 3, Halle. 

 1885. HrxLEY. A Manual of the Anatomy of Invertebrated Animals. New 



York. 



1895. Janet. Sur les muscles des fourmis, des guespes et des abeilles. Compt. 

 Rend. Acad. Sci., T. CXXI. 



1895. . Anatomic du corselet de la Myrniica rubra reine. M^'m. Soc. 



Zool. d. France, T. XL. 



1896. Jaworowski. Die Entwicklung des Spinnapparates bei Trochosa sig- 

 noriensis mit Berucksiehtigung der Abdoniinalanhange und der Fliigel 

 bei den Insekten. Jen. Zcit Naturw., Bd. 30. 



1897. . Zu meiner extremitaten u. Kiementheorie bci Anthropoden. 



Zool. Anz., 20 Jahrg., No. 532. 



1888. Jordan. Anatomie u. Biologie der Physopoden. Zeit Wiss. Zool., 



Bd. XLVII. 

 1888. JofKDAiN. Sur le Machilis maritima. C. R. Acad. Sci., T. CVI. 

 1820. JuRiNE. Observations sur les ailes des HjTnenoptdres. M6m. reale. 



Acad. Sci. Torino, Tonic XXIV 

 1828. KiRRY and Spence. Introduction to Entomology. Vol. 3. 

 1883. Kleuker. Ueber Endoskeletale Bildungen bei Insekten. Diss. Dorpat. 



Gottingen. 

 1801. Knoch. Neue Beitrage zur Insektenurkunde. Leipzig. 

 1893. KoLBE. Einfuhrung in die Kenntnis.se der In.sekten. Berlin. 

 1901. . Vergleichend-morphf)logische Untersuchungen bei Coleopteren. 



Arch. f. Naturg., 67 Jahrg., lieilieft. 

 1885. Korotneff. Die Embryologie der Gryllotalpa. Zeit. Wiss. Zool., Bd. 



XLI. 

 1890-92. Korschelt u. Heider. Lehrbuch der Vcrgl. Entwicklungsg<'s. der 



wirbellosen Tiere. Jena. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51 



1898. Krueger. Ueber die Entwicklung der Fliigel der Insekten mit besonder 

 Berucksichtigung der Deckflugel der Kafer. Inaug. Diss. Gottiugen. 



1875-81. KuEN'KEL d'Herculais. Recherches sur rorgaiiisation et le devel- 

 oppement dcs A'olucelles. Paris. 



1834-38. Lacordaire. Introduction a rentomologie. Paris. 



1854. . Genera des Coleopt^res. Paris. 



1900. Lameere. Notes pour la classification des Coleoptdres. Ann. See. 

 Ent. Belg., T. XLIW 



1866. Laxdois. Anatomio des Hundflohs. Nova. Acta. Acad. Leop. Carol. 

 Dresden., Bd. XXXIII. 



1867. . Die Tracheenverschluss bei den Insekten. Zeit. Wiss. Zoll.. 



Bd. XVII. 



1820-22. Latreille. Des rapports gcncraux de I'orgaiiisation extt'rieiu-e des 

 animaux invertebrcs artieules. Mem. Mus. Hist. Nat., T. VI-\II. 



1831. . Cours d'Entomologie. Paris. 



1861-62. Lecoxte. Classification of the Coleoptera of North America. Smith- 

 sonian Miscellaneous Collections, Part I; also Leconte and Horn, Wash- 

 ington. 1883. 



1847. Leidy. History and Anatomv of the Hemipterous genus Belostoma. 

 Jour. Acad. Nat'. Sci. Phila., V6l. 1 (N.S.), Part I. 



1881. V. Lexde.vfeld. Der Flug der Libellen. Sitzb. K. K. Akad. Wiss. 

 Wien. Math. Naturw. Ivlasse. Jahrg. 4, Bd. LXX.XIII, Abt. I. 



1873. LiEiiE. Die Gelenke der Insekten. Programni d. Kgl. Gymnasiums zu 

 Cliemnitz, 4. 



1864. LiNDE.MANX. Notizen zur Lehre vom ausseren Skelette der Insekten. 

 Bull. Soc. Imp. Moscau, t. XXXVII, Part I. 



1861. Lftw. Beitrjlge zur Kenntnis der Orthopteren. Yerh. Zool. Bot. Gesell. 

 Wien. Bd. XI. 



1890-92. J.owxE. Tlie Anatomv, Phvsiology, Morphology and Development 

 of tlie Blow-fly. London (also 1870). 



1881. Lubbock. On the .\natomv of Ants. Trans. Linn. Soc. London, 2 ser., 

 Vol. 2, Zool., Part 2. 



1883. LuKs. I'cIht die Brustmuskulatur der Insekten. Jen. Zeit. Naturw. 

 u. Med., Bd. XVI. 



1906. MacGillevray. -\ Study of Wings of the Tenthredinoida?. Proc. U. S. 



.\at. Mus., Vol. XXIX. 

 1830. MacLeay. Explanation of the Comparative Anatomy of thq Thorax 



in Winged Insects. Zool. Jour. London, Bd. V, No. XVIII. 



1832. . French translation; .see Audouin, '32. 



1862-03. Meixert. .\natomia forficularum. Diss. Med. Hofii., Kopenhagen. 

 1867. . On the Campodea, a Fainilv of Tlivsanura (translation). Ann. 



and Mag. Nat. Hist. London, III Scr., \o\. 20. 

 1880. . Sur riiomologie des d'lytres dcs Cnleopt^res. Entom. Tidskr. 



Stockholm, Bd. I. 

 1886. .MiALL and Dexxy. The Structure and Lifi' History of the Cockroach. 



fxmdon. 

 1807. .MiALL and Shelfohd. The Structure and Life History of Pehalacrocera 



replicata. Trans. Ent. Soc. Ix)ndon. 



1900. . Tlie Structure and I>ife History of the Harleq»un-fly. Oxford. 



1871-73. Mueller. Beitriige zur Kenntnis der Tormiten. Jen. Z<'it. .Med. u. 



Naturwi.ss, Ikl. 7 and 0. 

 1S.33-.31. Newman. Osti'olf)gj' or External .Xn.itoinv of Insects. Entom. Mag., 



Vol. I-II. 

 1839. .Vewport. Insects. Tmld's Cyclopjedia of .Xnatomv and Phyaiologj', 



Vol.11. 

 181S. NiTZ.scH. Die I'aiiiilien u. Gattungen der Tierinsektm. .Magazin der 



Kiifomologie. heniusgegeben von Germar, Hallf. B<1. III. 



1884. (Xstex-Sackkx. .\n Easay on Comparative ('hirtotaxy. Trans. Ent. 

 .Soc. London. 



1S9S. I'ackahi). T<'\tbf)ok of Entomology. Now York. 

 1S77. Palmkn. Zur .Morphologic de.s Traeheensystctns. Tx-ipzig. 

 I.SIK). Paptf.v. On the Origin of Vertel)ratc8 from .\ruchnids. (^uarf. Jour. 

 Mier.. Vol 31. .\. S.. F'art 3. 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



1S99. Pethi. I muscolo dcUe ali uel ditteri c iiegli inienoltt'ri. Hull. Soc, 

 Ent. ItiU., 31. 



1832. R.\THKE. Zur Entw. Gesch. von Blatta germanica. Meckel's Archiv. 

 f. .\nat. ami Physiol.. Bd. 6. 



1844. . Zur Entw. pes. der MaulwurfsRrille. Ibid. 



1886. REDTENitACHEK. \'ergl. Studien iiber das Flugelgeiidcr der Insekten. 

 Ann. d. Hofinaseunis Wien, Bd. I. 



1886. Rehherg. Uebor die Entwicklung dcs Insektcnfliigels an Blatta ger- 

 manica. Jahresb. Kgl. Gymnasiums zu Marit'nworder, Schuljahr 1885-86. 



1865. Hei.nhard. Zur Ent. gos. d«".s Tracheensystoms dor Ilymenoptercn. 

 lierliner Anatom. Zoitschr., Jalirg. 9. 



1892. Riley. Tcguhp and Patagia of I^^jpidoptera. Proc. Ent. Soc. Washing- 

 ton, Vol. II. 



1904. Riley. The Embryological Development of the Skeleton of the Head 



of Blatta. Am. Nat., Vol. 38. 

 1860. Samuelson and Hicks. The Eartliworm and the Common House-fly. 



London. 

 1879. Saussure. Etudes sur I'aile des Orthopt^res. Ann. Sci. Nat., 6 sdr., 



7 X. 

 1816. Savigxy. Memoires sur les Animau.\ sans vert^bres. Paris. 



1907. ScHMiEDEKNECHT. Die Hvmenopteren Mitteleuropas. Jena. 

 1895-99. Sharp. Insects. Cambridge Natural History, Vols. V-VI, London. 



1896. . The so-called Secondary Wing of Coleoptera. Trans. Ent. Soc. 



London. 



1902. SiLVESTRi. Einige Bemerkungen iiber den sogenannten Mikro thorax 

 der Insekten. Zool. .\nz., Nr. 680, Bd. 25. 



1908. Snodgrass. A Comparative Study of the Thorax in Orthoptera, Euplex- 

 optera and Coleoptera. Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., Vol. IX. 



1843. Spinola. Considerazione sopra i costumi degli Imenotteri del genera 



Sirex. 

 1828. Strauss-Duerkheim. Considerations gdncrales sur I'anatomie compar<le 



des animaux articulds. Paris. 



1903. Tower. The Origin and Development of the Wings of Coleoptera. Zool. 

 Jahrb., Abt. f. Ontogenie u. Phys., Bd. XVII. 



1898. UzEL. Studien iiber die Entwicklung der apterygoden Insekten. 



1893. Verhoeff. Vergleichende Untersuchungen iiber die Abdominalsegmente 

 der weiblichen Hemiptera, Heteroptera und Homoptera. Verb. Naturw. 

 Ver. Preuss. Rheinlande Westfalen. Reg. Bez. Osnabriick, Jahrg. 50, 

 Bonn. 



1895. . Cerci und styli der Tracheaten Entom. Nachrichten. 



1897. . Bemerkungen iiber abdominale Korperanhiinge bei Insekten u. 



Myriopoden. Zool. Anz., Bd. 20. 



1902a. . Ueber Dermipteren .... und iiber den Mikrothorax der 



Insekten. Zool. Anz., Bd. 25, No. 665. 

 1902b. . Ueber die Nerven des Metacephalsegmentes imd die Insektenord- 



nung Oothecaria. Zool. Anz., Bd. 25, No. 685. 

 1903a. . Beitriige zur vergl. Morphologic des Thorax der Insekten mit 



Beriicksichtigung der Chilopoden. Nova acta K. L. C. deutschen Akad. 



Naturf., Bd. LXXXI, No. 2, Halle. 

 1903b. . Vergleichende Morphologic der Laufbeine der Opisthogoneata. 



Tbid. 

 1903c. . LTeber den Thorax der In.sekten mit besonderer Beriick.sichtigung 



des Mikrothorax und der Pleuren. Ibid. 

 1903d. — -. Ueber Tracheaten Beine. 2. Aufsatz. Zool. Anz., Bd. 26, Nr. 



692. 

 1903e- • L^eber Tracheaten Beine. 3. Aufsatz. Sitzb. Gesell. Naturf 



Fr. Berlin, Heft 2. 

 1903f. . Ueber Tracheaten Beine. 4. Aufsatz. Nova acta, Bd. LXXXI, 



No. 4. 



1903g. . Intercalarsegmente der Chilopoden. Arch. f. Naturg. 



1904a. . Ueber Tracheaten Beine. 6. Aufsatz. Ibid. 



1904b. • Zur vergl. Morphologic und Systematik der Japydiden. Ibid. 




1909.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



53 



1904c. — — '. Zur vergl. Morphologie und Systematik der Embiiden. Nova 



Acta, Bd. 82. 

 1904. Voss. Ueber den Tliorax von Gryllus domesticus Zeit Wiss. Zool., 



LXXVIII. 



1900. Walton. The Basal Segments of the Hexapod Leg. Am. Nat., Vol. 

 XXXIV. 



1901. . The Metathoraeic Pterygodaof the He.xapoda and their Relation 



to the Wings. Am. Nat., \'oI. XXXV. 



1830. Westwood. On the Tliorax of Insects. Zool. Jour., Vol. V. 



1838. . On the comparative structure of the Scutellum and other terminal 



dorsal parts of winged Insects. Entom. Mag., Vol. \l. 



1839. . Introduction to the Modem Classification of In.sects. London. 



1889. Wheeler. Tlie Embryology of Blatta germanica and Doryphora 



decemlineata. Jour. Morph., \'ol. Ill, No. 2. 



1893. . A Contribution to Insect Embryology. Jour. Morph., Vol. Mil. 



1899. WiLLEM. Rech(>rches sur les CoUemboles et Thysanoures. Gent. 

 1862. WiN'SLow. Om byggnaden of Thorax hos Insekterna. Hdsingborg. 

 1879. Wood-Masox. Morphological Notes bearing on tlie Origin of Insects. 



Trans. Ent. Soc. London. 

 1906. WooDwoRTH. Tlie Wing-veins of Insects. Univ. California Agr. Exper. 



Station Pub. Technical Bull. Entomol., Vol. I, No. I. 

 1854. Z.\DDACH. I'ntersuchungen iiber die Entwickliung und Bau der Glieder- 



tiere. Berlin. 



Reference Letters. 



— ', — ", or — '" — Indicates that the sclerite in question belongs to the pro-, 

 meso- or meta-thorax. 



— "", — '"", etc. — Indicates that the sclerite is abdominal. 



AD .\podeme. 



AP Apophysis. 



C Coxa. 



C. Eucoxa. 



Cv Meron. 



Cm Coximarginal sclerite. 



CS Cervical sclcrites. 



CS, Ventral cervicals. 



CiK. Lateral cer\'icals. 



Cl^x Posterior lateral cervicals. 



C^ Dorsal cervicals. 



C.Pl Cervico-proplciiron. 



EM Epimeron. 



EMc Costal sclerite. 



EMb. Anepimcron. 



EMk Katcpiiiifnin. 



ES Epistcrniiiii. 



ESa .\nr'j)istcriiuiii. 



ESm Median region. 



ESk KaU^pistermuii. 



ESkx Katepisternal complex. 



F. Furca. 



/ „ Intersegmentalia. 



/pi Pr.Tlaterale. 



/pp.„ „ Postpli'Uriil sclerite. 



/pt „ Peritremal .scleritea. 



L Laterale. 



/>a Anterior laterale. 



Lb Antecoxal laterale. 



Lj Epistemai laterale. 



Lj. Stenial laterale. 



L^ Hyposteni.'il laterale. 



At Notum f)r tergum. 



N. Prjrsciituin. 



N^ Srntiun. 



.Mediscutum. 



par- 



ol 



of 



the 

 the 



Ajb Parapsidoscutum (or 



apsides). 



Xo Scutellum. 



.\^ Postscutellum. 



.V^a Medioplwagmite. 



.V b Pleur()|)liragniites. 



-V^bs Su perior region 



pleurophragmit 

 -V'^bi Inferior region 



pleuropliragmite. 

 .V^bp Pleurojiliragnial sclerite or 



para|)l<-uroii. 

 PC Complementary (< >xal 



plate. 

 PI I'leuron. 



.S' Slermun. 



S, PnesterMUMi. 



S^ Basistenium. 



.Sig. Furcistemum. 



.Sjp Pedal region of furcister- 



mnn. 



Sjpf Postf ureal sderi tes. 



S^^ Spiiiisternum. 



SP^, SPj First and second thoracic 



spiraejes. 



(SPa Midoiiiiiial sj)iracle. 



T Trochantin or trochanti- 



nuH. 



7'a..._ Antecoxal trochantin. 



Tb (^>xal trncliantin. 



T. „„ Troehjintinus major. 



7\ TrocliantinUH minor. 



7Y7 Tf'gmenfarv Hcleritew. 



r/?.„.....* Tn..'r,nt.r. 




54 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan., 



Explanation of Plates I-IV. 



Plate I. — Xemura(?;). Ventral \-icw of thorax and first two abdominal seg- 

 ments. Head removed. Ix»ps, abdomen and wings shortened. 



Pl.vte II. — .\nisol.a.his and Fokficula. — Combination figure. Three-quarters 

 \-iew sliowing venter, flank, and edge of tlie dorsum. Head and greater 

 portion of the legs and abdomen removed. Prothorax based on Anisolabis; 

 meso- and meta-thorax aa in Forficula. 



Plate III. — Pehiplaneta. — Tliree-quarters ^^ew of thorax and first abdominal 

 segment. Prepared and oriented as fig. XXIII. 



Pi-ate IV. — Carabid Lauva. — Three-quarters view of metathorax and first 

 two abdominal segments. The sclerite labelled " parapleurite " should be 

 designated "paratergite. " 




1909.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



February 2. 

 Arthur Erwin Brown, Sc.D., Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Twenty-eight persoas present. 



The PubUcation Committee reported that a paper entitled "Action 

 of Cliemical Solutions on Bud Development: An Experimental Study 

 of Acclimatization," by John W. Harshberger, Ph.D., had been pre- 

 sented for pubhcation (January 28, 1909). 



Thomas H. Montgomery, Ph.D., made a communication on the 

 architecture of spiders. (Xo abstract.) 



February 16. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D.. in the Chair. 



One hundred and thirty-nine persons present. 



The Publication Committee announced the reception of a paper 

 entitled "An Orthopterological Reconnoissance of the Southwestern 

 United States: Part II, New Mexico and Western Texas," by James 

 A. G. Rehn and Morgan Hebard (February 4). 



The special business of the meeting being the commemoration of the 

 centenar)'- of the birth of Charles Darwin and of tlie fiftieth year of 

 the publication of the Origin of Species, the President spoke of the 

 influence of the doctrines of Natural Solcotif»n and Evolution on the 

 development of thougiit and the progress of humanity. 



Dr. Arthur Er\vin Brow.v referred to the fact that the Academy 

 had boon the first society in America to recognize the importance of 

 Darwin's w(jrk and quoted from his letter to LyoU of May 8, 18G0, in 

 which he says: "This morning I got a letter from the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of I'hiladelphia, annoimcing that I am eloct^nl a 



Correspondent It shows that some naturalists there 



do not think me such a scientific profligate a-s many think me hero.'" 



' Life and Letters of Charles Darwin, inchidins an Autobiop-aphical Chapter. 

 Edited by his Son, Francis D.irwin. IHS7. VoL II, p. IDO. 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Dr. Brown also road a letter addressed In- Darwin to Dr. Josoi^h 

 I.<eidy nnder date of .Marcii 4, ISOO. acknowledjrin«:; rcrpipt of pulili- 

 cations, expressing appreciation of Dr. Leidy's paleontological work. 

 and returning thanks for his support of the doctrine of Natural Selection. 



Edwin G. Conklix. Ph.D., then read a memoir of Darwin, dwelling 

 on the importance of his work in science and on the relation of the 

 doctrine of Natural Selection to modern thought. 



A collection of Darwin's works and his letter of acknowledgment 

 of election a.s Correspondent of the Academy were exhibited. 



The following were accepted for publication: 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57 



ACTION OF CHEMICAL SOLUTIONS ON BUD DEVELOPMENT: AN EXPERI- 

 MENTAL STUDY OF ACCLIMATIZATION. 



m' .JOHN W. HARSHBERGER, PH.D. 



The phenomena of vegetation lend theniselv©^ to experiment ill 

 study. This experimentation is necessary, because the laws which 

 control the periodicity of plants can be determined only by altering 

 the conditions under which such plants grow. Interest in the periotlic 

 growth of plants is perhaps keenest in the Spring, when everyone is 

 observing, in a more or less detailed manner, the gradual awakemuent 

 of vegetation. The opening of shrub and tree buds has, as a result of 

 this human interest, long engaged the attention of botanists. The 

 phenomena of bud opening, and the laws to be deduced therefrom, 

 have not been studied experimentally. Every stutlent has been struck 

 by the orderly sequence of the process in any particular district or climate. 

 Each species seems to fill its allotted place in the line of bud develop- 

 ment. The question arises, is this sequence due to heredity, to the 

 character of the reserve food, or the disposition of this reserve food 

 in the buds and twigs of the plant, or is it due solely to the climatic 

 conditions, such as temperature and humitlity? Tiie experiments 

 which follow will furnish data which it is hoped will contribute to the 

 answer of the above questions. The only other experim('nt»s of a 

 similar nature that have come to the writer's knowledge are those of 

 DeCandolle, mentioned by Schimper' a.s follows: "Zweige von Holz- 

 gcwjichsen zeigen das gloiche V'orhalten wie Samen. A. do ('an<lolle 

 trieb Zweige von Populus alba, Carpinus betulus, Catalpa bigiioiii:i'- 

 folia [bignonioides?] und Liriodendron tulipifera die sich thcils in 

 Mfjiitpeliiertiieils inCJenf ontwickclt hatten vom 4 Fol)ruar an in cinen 

 Raume dcssen Temperatur wilhrcnd der Dauer des Vci-suches zwischcn 

 + 7° und +10° schwanktc. Die Genfer Zweige entwickelten ihre 

 Laub-knos])cii friiher als die aus Montpellier stamriKMnlcn." 



EXPERIMKNTS OF THK I'lKST ^'l:AU. 



Eight species were studied the first year in wjiich the cxpcnmcnts 

 were conducte<l. Twigs from Liriodendron tulipifera, Qucrcus paluslns, 



' Schimpnr. A. I' W , I'flnmrnijcogrnphie nnj phf/xiohgiitrher drundlagr, p. .1(5. 




58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY Dl" [Fcb., 



Populus monilifera, Tilia americana. Magnolia consjricua, /Esculns 

 hippocastanum, Salix babylonica and Forsythia viridissima were placed 

 in various clieiuical solutions described below, and at the same time 

 plants near the University were observed under more normal conditions 

 out of doors. Twigs cut from these trees were placed in the chemical 

 solution on Marcii 1, 1907. Under each species will be mentioned 

 the chemical solutions used antl the reaction which took place. The 

 date of tiie reaction will be given in each particular case. The species 

 of the fii-st year's experimentation are arranged in the order of their 

 response. The plants were kept in a greenhouse where the tempora- 

 tm-e range was about 25 degrees. At night the temperature descended 

 to 65° F., while on sunny middays it rose as high as 90° F. 



Forsythia viridissima. — The following chemical solutions were 

 used with this species. One per cent, chromic acid filled several of the 

 bottles; ordinary stock picric acid diluted four times with water; 

 ammonium nitrate (two grams) dissolved in 200 cubic centimeter of 

 water; five decigrams of sodium chloride in fifty cubic centimetei's of 

 water; five drops chemically pure nitric acid in fifty cubic centimeters 

 of water ; menthol water ; two bottles filled with 800 cul)ic centimeters 

 of filtered water; two grams ammonium sulphate in 600 cubic centi- 

 metei's of water; 100 cubic centimeters of ether in 500 culjic centimeters 

 of water; 200 cubic centimetei-s of chemically pure anmionium hydrate 

 in 1 ,000 cubic centimeters of water ; a saturated solution of corrosive 

 sublimate in 1,000 cubic centimetei's of water; ten drops of chemically 

 pure hydrochloric acid in fifty cubic centimeters of water. 



One week after the experiments were begun buds of this species 

 showed a reaction. The most marked was with the ammonium 

 hydrate solution when, on March 8, it was found that all of the buds 

 above the middle ones were well opened, but the leaves remained 

 tightly folded. There was a steady advance in this solution until 

 March 20. On March 11 the flower buds were ready to open, and 

 on March 15, four days later, the buds were expanded, while on March 

 IS the flowers harl withered and a few green leaves had appeared. 

 After March 25 there was no advance, and on March 28 the twigs were 

 dead. Respoase was shown on March 8 by the twigs in picric acid, 

 ammonium nitrate, sodium chloride, hydrochloric acid, ammonium 

 sulphate, ether water, corrosive sublimate and pure water. The 

 most marked response was in the solution with five drops of hydro- 

 chloric acid, where the buds had burst, and in the picric acid, where 

 the three topmost buds had burst. Tiie response in the other cases 

 was shown by an easement of the buds. In the pure water the buds 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59 



were green. ( )ii .March 8 no reaction was shown by the twigs in the 

 chromic acid, nitric acid, menthol water and one bottle of filtered water. 

 In fact the twigs in the nitric acirl ditl not respond and were dead by 

 March 20. The buds, however, in the menthol water, chromic acid and 

 filtered water had responded on March 11. The subsequent history 

 of tiie twigs in the different solutions is as follows: 



Chromic Add. — March 11: The buds of the two upper nodes were 

 developed. March 15: The two topmost buds were expandetl, but 

 the leaves were still folded. March IS: The leaves of the U)\) pair of 

 buds were fully expanded, witli the terminal l)ud one and a half Indies 

 long. March 25: No advance. 



Picric Acid. — March 11: Upper buds were green. March 15: A 

 few end buds were green, but not opened. March 18: Upper buds 

 burst, leaves green. March 20: Leaves hardly mifolded. March 25: 

 Xo advance. March 28: Leaves hardly unfoldetl. March 25: No 

 advance. March 28: Twigs dead. 



Ammonium nitrate. — March 11 : All of the bufis were bui"st and some 

 of the leaves were expanded. March 15 : Nearl}' all of the buds showed 

 leafy branches one and a half inches long, with two to three pail's of 

 leaves expanded. March 18: All of the green lea\es were spotted and 

 unhealthy looking. March 20: All of the expanded leaves were tlead, 

 anfl on March 28 all of the twigs were dead. 



Sodiimi chloride. — March 11: The three upper buds were enlarged 

 and ready to buret. March 15, March 18, March 20, March 25: No 

 advance in the development of these buds took place, and on .March 

 28 the twigs were dead. 



Hydrochloric Acid (five-drop solution). — March 11: The buds were 

 burst open, but the leaves were still folded together; only the lower- 

 most leaf was expanded. Marcji 15: The upper two paii"s of buds had 

 grr)wn to a brancji two incjios long, with four pairs of opj)osite leaves 

 unfolded. March 18, March 20: All leaves of the branches expanded. 

 March 25, March 28, April 1 : Xo advance. April 5: Twig dead. 



Menthol ir«/(r.— .March 11: .Middle l)uds burst. >hurli 15: Tlnee 

 buds were green, but not fully ojx'ned. March 18, .Manli 25, .March 28, 

 April 1: Xo advance. A[)ril 5: Twig dea<l. 



Filtered Watir (.1).- If the twig in this experiment is contraste<l 

 with the twig in the other bottle of water, it is evident that it.s vitality 

 must have been impaired iti some way before the experiment.s began, 

 hence the results obtained. On March 8 there waa no response, jis in 

 the other case March 11. The midfjle and lower buds had buixt, the 

 leaves were flat but still erect. M.-ucJi 15: .Ml of the btids had devel- 




60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADKMY OF [!'«'•>, 



oped into leafy liraiichos two aiul a half inchos l<»n<r. Marcii IS: All 

 of the branches! measured two ant! a iialf inches lon^. March 20: Slow 

 advance. March 25, March 28, Aj)ril 1 : No advance. April 5: Twi^s 

 withenMJ. 



{B} March II : Leaf biuls eased, two liower buds were ready to open. 

 March 15: All of the flower buds were open, leaf buds one-half inch 

 lontj. Marcii IS: All of the branches were green and two inches long. 

 -March 20: Tiie green branches were slowly growing. March 25, 

 March 28: The twigs and leaves were making rapitl growth. April 1, 

 April 5, Aj^ril 13: Tiie growth continued. 



Ammonium sulphate. — March 11: One flower bud showed signs of 

 opening. March 15: Three flower buds advanced to stage of the first, 

 but still tightly closed, no leaf buds open. March 18, March 20, March 

 25: No advance. March 2S: Twig dead. 



Corrosive sublimate. — .March 11 : Lower pair of leaves in each of the 

 leaf buds were expanded. March 15: Branches were two inches long 

 and three pairs of leaves expanded. March IS: Branches two to two 

 and one-half inches long, flowers all witheretl. March 20: Leaves 

 of twig all flat. March 25: Leaves were all expanded and had grown 

 in size. March 28 : Leaves began to wither. April 1 : Twigs unlioalthy . 



Hydrochloric Acid (ten-drop solution). — March 11: Middle l)uds 

 of twig eased. March 15: Buds were three-quarters of an inch long, 

 leaves were not unfolded. March 18: Three buds were burst, but on 

 March 20 no advance in these buds was shown. March 25, 28, April 1 : 

 No advance in twig. April 5: Twig dead. 



Magnolia cox.spicua. — Only two solutions were used in experi- 

 menting with the twigs of this tree. Two grams of ammonium nitrate 

 were dissolved in 200 cubic centimeters of water. Filtered water was 

 also used a-s a control. On March 8 the twigs did not show response in 

 either liquid. The first respoase was shown on March 11. 



Amm/)nium nitrate. — March 11: The large terminal bud was burst, 

 white petals shown at the base. March 15: Bud opened, but no ad- 

 ditional development. March 18: No advance. March 20: Termi- 

 nal buds unhealthy. March 20: All the buds were dead. 



Filtered Water. — March 8 : No respoase. March 1 1 : Flowers fully 

 open with the petals reflexed, but the stameas still closed. March 15: 

 Flower buds withered. March 18: First foliage leaf expanded. March 

 20 : The twig w as a little more advanced. March 25, March 28, April 1 : 

 Twig was dead. 



JiiscuLUS hippocastaxu.m. — Five solutioas were used with the horse 

 chestnut, \iz., five drops of hydrochloric acid in fifty cubic centimeters 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



of water; five drops of chemically pure nitric acitl in fifty cubic centi- 

 meters of water; three bottles contained filtered water. 



Hydrochloric Acid. — March 11: Buds not buret, but resin abundant 

 and more fluid. March 15. March IS, March 20: No change reported 

 in the record of this branch. March 25: Bud buret at tip. March 28 : 

 Bud nearly fully buret, leaves still tightly folded. April 1. April 5: 

 No change. April 13: Twig dead. 



Filtered Water (A). — March 11 : Terminal bud very resinous. Marcli 

 15: Terminal buds well expanded. March 18: Large buds well ex- 

 panded, but leaves still tightly folded. March 20: Terminal buds with 

 leaves still erect. March 25: Leaves of terminal bud distinct and 

 horizontal, but segments still folded together, covered with rusty 

 haire. March 28: Leaflets beginning to separate. April 1, April 5: 

 No advance. April 13: Twig dead. 



(H) No response on March 8 and March 11. March 15: One lateral 

 bud with woolly leaves showing. March 18: Leaves of two lateral 

 buds flattened out horizontally. March 20: All of the leaves of the 

 lateral buds placed horizontally. March 25: Leaves began to lose 

 their tomentum. March 2S: Leaflets began to separate. April 1, 

 April 5: No change. April i:5: Twig dead. 



(C) March 11: Buds became sticky, resinous, inner scales began to 

 show between the outer scales. March 15: Buds well expanded, but 

 not fully buret. March 18: Buds buret, young leaves still folded 

 together. March 20: Bud fully open, one leaf horizontal. March 25: 

 Leaves all horizontal, covered with tomentum. March 2S: Leaflets 

 still folded together. April 1 : Leaves somewhat withered. 



PopuLUs MoNiLiFKKA. — The folU)wing chemical solutions were 

 user! in experimenting with the twigs of the Carolina poplar: ('iironric 

 acid, one per cent.; filtered water; five decigrams of sodium bic.-iibo- 

 nate in fifty cul)ic centimetere of water; five decigrams of sodium 

 chloride in fifty cubic centimeters of watei-; five drops of clicinically 

 pure sulphuric acid in 100 cubic centimetere of water; ten drops of 

 chemically pure hydrocjiloric acid in fifty cui)ic centimetere of water; 

 twenty drojjs of chemically pure sulphuric acid in 100 cubic centi- 

 metere of water; menthol water; filtered tap water; 100 cubic centi- 

 metere of ether in 500 cubic centimetere of water; 200 cubic centi- 

 metere chemically pure ammf)nium hydrate in l.(KK) cubic centimeters 

 of water; two grams of airunonium sulphate in 000 cubic c<'ntin)etere 

 of water; saturated corrosive sublimate solution dilute*! in l.(M)0 cnbic 

 centimetere of water. 




62 PROCEEDINGS OF THK ACVDKMV OF [l"l'l>r 



No response \va< noticed in any of the twigs on March S and March 

 11. except in tlie case of the twig in etlier water which showed a shght 

 easement of the upper buds. This stinnilus wa.s only a temporary one. 

 because on March 11 no enlargement was noticeable. On March 15, 

 the twigs in water, menthol water, ether water, annnonium hydrate, 

 ammonium sulphate and corrosive sublimate had responded and tlie 

 extent of this response will be indicated in what follows. It should 

 be noted, however, that the l)uds on the twigs on March 15 in the ammo- 

 nium iiydrate solution had bui-st and the leaves were about to imfold, 

 while the buds of the twigs in the filtered water, in the corrosive sub- 

 limate and in the ammonium suijiliate were just beginning to burst 

 open. 



Chromic Acid (one per cent). — No response whatever on any of the 

 dates. 



Water (A). — March 15: Buds enlarged and green, but not open. 

 March 18: Large buds burst, leaves about to imfold. March 20: 

 Lateral buds open, one leaf began to unfold. March 25: Lateral buds 

 with firet leaves partly unfolded, terminal buds buret. Marcli 2<S: 

 Terminal buds fully expanded, one or two leaves unfolded. April 1 : 

 Two leaves of lateral bud expanded. April 5: No advance. A[)ril 

 13: Leaves broad, bright green, twig fresh. 



Sodium bicarbonate. — No reaction. 



Sodium chloride. — No response, twigs eventually killed. 



Sulphuric Acid (five-drop solution). No response until March 18 

 when the buds were slightly enlarged. ^larch 20: A slight additional 

 enlargement. ^larch 25, March 28, April 1 : No advance. On April 

 13 the twig wa.s dead. 



Hydrochloric Acid. — No respoiLse. 



Sidjihuric Acid (twenty-drop solution). — No reaction, eventually 

 killol. 



Menthol Water. — March 15: Terminal bud enlarged, but not open. 

 March 18: Terminal bud burst, but the leaves are tightly folded. 

 March 25: Terminal bud with bud scales separated, leaves not 

 expanded. March 28, April 1, April 5: No advance. April 13: Twigs 

 dea 1. 



Filtered Water (B). — March 15: Buds enlarged. March 18: Buds 

 burst. March 20: Buds well open, first leaf about to expand. March 

 25: Leaves of terminal bud all fully expanded. March 28: Leaves 

 of upper two buds flattened. April 1 : Green leav&s fully developed. 

 Api'il 5: Adventitioas roots appeared, leaves fully matured. 



Kthrr Wntfr. — March 15: Buds large and very green, about to burst. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63 



.March 18: Two lateral biuls with leaves expanded, most ad\anced 

 developed in all the solutions. March 20: Some buds fully open, 

 with one or two leaves flattened horizontally. March 25 : Xo advance. 

 March 28: Majority of twig leaves beginning to unfold. April 1: 

 Leaves were all fully expamled. April 13: Twig dead. 



Ammonium hydrate. — Xo response until March 15 when one of the 

 lateral buds had buret and leaves were about to unfokl. March 18: 

 Leaves nearly unfolded. March 25, March 28: Xo advance. April 1 : 

 Twigs dead. 



Filtered Water (C). — X'o response luitil March 15 when buds were 

 found enlarged. March 18: Buds expanded and leaves flattenefl out. 

 March 25: Terminal and lateral buds with leaves fully expanded. 

 Rapid growth of this twig continued until April 13 when the experi- 

 ments were concluded. 



Ammonium sulphate. — March 15: I>arge buds about to open. March 

 18: Leaves pretty well expanded. .March 20: One leaf of lateral 

 bud fully expanded, three others almost so. March 25: Leaves of 

 topmost lateral bud nearly expanded. March 28: Xo advance. 

 April 1 : All of the twigs had gone bad. 



Corrosive Sublimate. — Marcli 15: Buds enlarged. March 18: Buds 

 bui"st and about to unfold. March 20: Leaves of terminal bud well 

 \mfoldefl. .March 25: Some of the leaves expanded. March 28: 

 Buds fully burst, two or three of the loaves were green and flat. April 

 1 : X^ot much advanced, twig still fresh. April 1 : Leaves fresh and 

 green, broadly expanded. April 13: Twig dead. 



LiRioDENDHON TiLiPiFKHA. — The chcmicals used in the experiments 

 with the tulip poplar were as follows : Five decigrams of sodium chlo- 

 ride dissolved in fifty cubic centimetere of water; filtered water; 

 five drops of chemically pure sulphuric acid in 100 cul)i(' centiinetei-s 

 of water; five drops of chemically pure hydrochloric acid in fifty cubic 

 centimeters of water; five dr(<ps chemically |)ure nitric aci<l in fifty 

 cubic centimetei-s of water; twenty drops chemically pure sulplniric 

 acid di.ssolve<l in I'M) cubic centimeters of water. 



The twigs did not respond in any of the above-mentioned solutions 

 until -March 11, when those in the twenty-drop solution of sulphuric 

 acid and in one bottle of filtcn-fl water showed a slight separation of 

 the two outer bud scales. The rec<jrd for the other twigs is somm- 

 what mnisual and is here given. 



Sodium chloride. — Alwolutely no response. 



Fillrrrd \V(it(r (A). — The twigs did not respond luitil MmicIi IS. 




64 PROCEEDINGS OF THK ACADKMY OF [!'('•>•, 



\vhen two of the lateral buds split open, the inner pair of green stipules 

 visible. Marcii 25: A lower lateral bud with one leaf expanded, 

 another leaf wjv^ foldtMl. .March 2S: Another lower lateral bud with 

 two leaves out, one only expanded. April 5: Teiininal bud ca.sting 

 off the outer brown stipules, one leaf unfolded. April ]'.^. Twifjidoad. 



{B). — Twig dead, no response. 



(C). — March 11: Bud split open. March 15: First inner pair of 

 green stipules visible. March IS: Buds well o])cned, but firet leaf 

 not unfolded. March 20: Fii-st leaf expandetl. March 25: Terminal 

 imi\ lateral buds each shoeing one green leaf. March 28: Leaves 

 fiat, buds rapidly expanding. April 1: Twig gone bad. 



Sulphuric Acid (five-droj) solution). — No response. 



Sulphuric Acid (twenty-drop solution). — March 11 : Two upper buds 

 with outer stipular scales slightly eased apart. March 15: Scales more 

 eased apart. March IS: Buds burst. March 20, March 25, March 28, 

 .\pril 1: No advance. April 13: T\vig dead. 



Hffdrochloric Acid (five drops). No response. 



Nitric Acid (five drops). — No response. 



Salix babyloxica. — The chemicals used with the weeping willow 

 were: Chromic acid, one per cent.; two grams ammonium nitrate in 

 200 cubic centimeters of water; five decigrams of sodium bicarbonate 

 in fifty cubic centimeters of water; five decigrams of sodium chloride 

 dissolved in fifty cubic centimeters of water; ten drops of chemically 

 pure hydrochloric acid in fifty cubic centimeters of water; filtered 

 water; 100 cubic centimeters of ether mixed with 500 cubic centi- 

 meters of water; 200 cubic centimetei-s of chemically pure ammonium 

 iiydrate in 1,000 cubic centimeters of water; picric acid; saturated 

 solution of corrosive sublimate. The results obtained in this scries of 

 experiments possess considerable interest. 



Chromic acid, ammonium nitrate, sodium bicarbonate, sodium 

 chloride, ether water, ammonium hydrate, picric acid, corrosive sub- 

 limate gave no response. 



Filtered Water (A). — No response was shown until March IS when 

 the buds of the female spike opened. March 20: Roots well devel- 

 oped, pistillate spikes one inch long. April 1. April 5: Twig still 

 continued its growth. April 13: Twig withered. 



(B) First response on March 11 when seconrlary roots began to 

 form, no bud reaction. March 15: Pistillate spikes one inch long; 

 roots pink, three inches long, numerous. March 18: Leaf buds open, 

 fii-st green leaves expanded. March 20: Pistillate spikes two inches 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 65 



long, root four inches long. March 25: Roots long and curved aljout 

 the bottom of the bottles, leaves elongated, dark green, three to four 

 inches long. March 28: Green branches four inches long, leaves flat, 

 roots numerous. April 1 : Two lateral branches green antl four inches 

 long. April 5: Shoots eight inches long. April 13: Twig dead. 



(C) March 11: 8econdar\' roots appeared; no bud reaction. Marcii 

 18: Leaf bud burst. March 20: Leaves well expanded, roots well 

 developed. March 25: Leaves advancing rapidh' to maturity. 

 March 28: Leafy branches, rapidly growing. April 1, Apiil 5: CJrowth 

 continued. April 18: Leaves were .'^ere. 



TiLiA AMERICANA. — The chemical solutions usetl in experimenting 

 with the twigs of the linden were: chromic acid, one per cent, solution; 

 stock picric acid in four times its volume of water; five decigrams of 

 sodium bicarbonate dissolved in fifty cubic centimeters of water; 

 filtoretl water as a control ; ten drops of hydrochloric acid in fifty cubic 

 fentimeters of water; 100 cubic centimeters of ether in 500 cubic 

 centimeters of water; saturated corrosive sublimate in one liter of 

 water. There was no response shown in any of the twigs until March 

 15. The twigs in the chromic acid, ten-drop hydrochloric acid solu- 

 tion and in ether water showed no response during the entire coui^se 

 of the experiments. The record obtained from the other twigs is as 

 follows: 



Picric Acid. — March 15: Hud scales slightly eased apart. March 

 18: Terminal bud bui*st. three-quarters of an inch, green. March 20: 

 Terminal bud expanded, upper part of the folded leaves seen within. 

 March 25: Terminal bud bui-st, leaves out of the l)ud. but f(tlde<l 

 together. March 2S: Leaves l)rown and nearly dead. April 1 : i'wig 

 dead. 



Sodium bicorhonntc. — March 15: Inner scales of terminal bud puslied 

 l)eyf)nd the outer scales f)ne-sixteenth of an inch. .March IS: ( )n(- 

 fourth of an inch beyon*!, terminal bud burst, no leaves expande<l. 

 March 25. March 28: No further advance. 



Fillcrrd Water (A). — March 15: Two larger bud scales cjised apart. 

 March 18: Muds burst, green spire one-fourth of an inch long. .March 

 25: T(>rminal bud green, spire-shai)ed. March 28: Same condition 

 as on previous day. April 1 : No further advance, water later evapo- 

 rates, ending the develoi)inent of this twig. 



(B) Marcli 15: Terminal bud nearly burst. .Manli IS: Huds ex- 

 pajided, three-quarters of an inch green. March 20: I'pper buds 

 burst, sides of folded leaves seen. March 25: Two h-avcs of the tcnni- 




66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



nal bud fully expanded. .March 'JS: The twia: Ava.s foiuul (l(>ad. because 

 the water had evnptirated from the jar. 



Corrosive Sublimate— Mavvh 15: Hud scales eased. Marcli IS: 

 Buds nearly all buret. March 20: Half of the folded green leaves seen 

 in the jnu-tially open bud. March 25: One to three leaves were found 

 fully expanded. March 28: All of the buds were burst, with one to 

 three leaves fully expanded, flat and large. A]M-il 1 : Twij^s <rone bad. 



QuERCUS PALUSTRis. — The chemicals used were: Two grams of 

 ammonium nitrate dissolved in 200 cubic centimeters of water; five 

 decigrams of sodium bicarbonate dissolved in fifty cubic centimetei-s 

 of water; five decigrams of sotlium chloride dissolved in fifty cubic 

 centimetere of water; 200 cubic centimetere of chemically pure ammo- 

 nium hydrate dissolved in one liter of water; saturated solution of 

 corrosive subUmate in one liter of water; two water control experi- 

 ments were inaugurated. 



The twigs placed in the ammonium nitrate, sodium bicarbonate, 

 sodium chloride, ammonium sulphate, and ammonium hydrate solu- 

 tions made no response by the opening of the buds. Those, however, 

 in the solution of corrosive sublimate showed signs of response on 

 March 25, when the terminal bud showed signs of elongation. On 

 March 28, three days after, the terminal bud had burst and the leaves 

 were ready to unfold. On April 1 the twigs began to show signs of 

 going bad. In water the response was more marked than in the corro- 

 sive sublimate solution, for on ^Nlarch 25 the terminal bud had buret, 

 but the leaves were still enclosed in the stipular scales. On March 28 

 the leaves had nearly expanded, and on April 1 the leaves were fully 

 expanded and the new shoots 100 to 127 millimetere long. 



SUMM.\RY OF THE EXPERIMENTS OF THE FlRST YeAR. 



The experiments conducted the first year with twigs in various 

 solutions throw coasiderable light upon the conditions which influ- 

 ence the flow of sap in plants. Straslnirger set the cut ends of trees 

 in tubs containing copper sulphate solution. He found that the 

 poison ascended to the leaves a distance in the tallest trees of twenty- 

 one metere. If such a violent protoplasmic poison ascends the trunks 

 of trees, it is clear that they must kill all of the cells lying in the path 

 of its ascent. Strasburger concluded that the living cells of the stem 

 were not necessary to the ascent of the sap, as a result of the above- 

 mentioned experiment with copper sulphate. Strasburger also killed 

 portioas of the stems of living trees by heat, and yet the upper living 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHI.'. 67 



and leafy portion was found to remain turgid for a few days. Another 

 experiment, which was held t(^ negative the theory of protoplasmic 

 activit}-, was that in which boiling water was poured on the root, when 

 the plant continued to respire in spite of the roots having been killed. 

 These experiments of Strasburger are negatived by the experiments 

 with the twigs in the various chemical solutions previously described. 

 As before indicated, the response of the twigs in the most susceptible 

 instance did not take place until a week after the twigs were placed 

 in the chemical solutions. After the first response, the opening of the 

 buds progressed steadily until the leaves had fully expanded. In 

 some instances the branch grew considerably in length after the open- 

 ing of the buds had started. As the experimental data prove, many 

 t^\^gs did not respond but were killed outright, as illustrated by the 

 twigs of the Carolina poplar, Popithis monilif era, in the ten-drop hydro- 

 chloric acid solution, or as in the case of Quercus palustris in the sodium 

 bicarbonate, sodium chloride and ammonium hydrate. Many twigs 

 wliicii responded at first by the enlargement or even bureting of the 

 buds afterwards made no advance and were eventually killed, and 

 ultimately most of the twigs not in water, but with their ends immersed 

 in the chemical solutions, died after the buds had dried up or the 

 leaves had wilted. This seems to indicate that the chemicals first 

 acted as a stimulus on the twigs; this was followed by the ascent of 

 water, by the suctional activity of the living cells of the twig and bud, 

 while the poisons lagged behind. As long as any of the cells remained 

 alive in the upper part of the twigs and in the buds they maintained 

 their suctional activity. Bose,^ In' a series of elaborate and jiaiiis- 

 taking experiments, has shown after the administration of a poison 

 at the cut end of a branch or petiole that successive zones are killed 

 one after another, and that the death of a point below docs not sto]> the 

 sucti(jn al)ov('. He says: "It is evident that the aj)plication of poison 

 at the root or cut end of a stem does not in general arrest suction until 

 the whole plant is kille(l." The records of his newly devised shoshun- 

 graph iridicatf tiiat the final arrest occurs after an aj)propriately long 

 period. Tiiat a poison cjin easily pass through killed tissue owing to 

 the suctional response of cells higher up, Bose proved in his experi- 

 ments on Drsmodiiim, when he placed the cut end of a j)etiole in copper 

 sulphate solutif)n. in this case there are areas which during the 

 ascent of the poison react visibly by the motile indications of the 



' Hd.sc, JaK.'idis Cluitnl: r, I'lunt It'csponac us a Mratix of I'hysioloyiral Invesli- 

 qntioii, I'M If., f». .'IS'). 




68 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [I'Vb., 



pulvini (if the inserted lateral leaflets. Bose by his experiments i)i()V(>(l 

 that the ascent of sap is brought alinut. not by any ioralized j^iroup of 

 cells in a particular region, bnt by cells which extend throughout the 

 length of the plant. Even after some of these have died, therefore, 

 by the access of tlie poison, those above are still active, and will con- 

 tinue to exhibit suction until they in their turn are finally killed. It 

 is thus evident that the movement of ascent cannot be completely 

 abolishetl \mtil the poison has reached effectively the very top. As 

 all the living cells are actively concerned in the work of suction, this 

 conveyance of poison to the top of the plant is what was to have been 

 expected. Only after such conveyance indeed could permanent arrest 

 possibly take place. Bearing these facts in mind, the action of the 

 chemicals on the various twigs used in my experiments become very 

 much simplifietl. and. instead of being very comjilex and unintelligible 

 phenomena, became reducible to one or two simple kinds of activity. 



Another important principle to be deduced from the experiments 

 of the fii"st and also of the second year is, that the experimenter is 

 unable to disturb the natural sequence of bud opening b}^ the stimulus 

 imparted to the twigs by the various chemical solutions. In onlj^ 

 one or two instances did the chemical seem to react upon the buds 

 and cause their enlargement out of the usual sequence. These cases 

 were with Forsythia viridissima twigs in the ammonium hydrate solu- 

 tions and in the five-drop hydrochloric acid solution. The response 

 was appreciably earlier and greater than with the twigs in filtered water 

 alone, or in the chemical solutions. The Populus monilifera twigs 

 in the ether water responded seven days in advance of the other 

 twigs placed under various experimental conditions. The results 

 obtained seem to indicate that the chemicals do not influence either 

 the time or the order of the response, but that this time and sequence 

 depend upon some factor not directly influenced by the environment 

 or by the experimental conditions. One then looks to the hereditary 

 influence which determines the time and the sequence of bud develop- 

 ment. Under hereditary influence we may include the minuter 

 structure of the plant which determines what the character of the 

 response must be. Perhaps it is a structural preparedness and the 

 character of the reserve food which determines the sequence of bud 

 development. To determine this point a study was made of the 

 microscopic anatomy of the experimental twigs. These are described 

 in the order in which the twigs responded in their bud development. 

 The twigs were cut on March 13, 1907, before the advent of Spring, 

 which occurred on March 30 anfl 31. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 69 



(1) f'oRSYTHiA viRiDissi.MA. — Tlie iocliiie test showed the pith cells 

 crowded with starch, as also the cortex cells between the bast fibere, 

 as also the medullary ray cells. Fehling's test gave no reaction. 



(2) Magnolia conspicua. — On treating the sections with iodine 

 starch was found in the medullary ray cells and not any in the cortex. 

 Fehling's test for sugar gave no reaction. 



(3) -E.scuLUS HIPPOCASTANU.M. — Starch occui-s in the protoxyleni 

 region, in the inner part of the medullary rays. No starch was found 

 in the cortex cells and no reaction was produced with Fehling's solu- 

 tion. 



(4) PopuLUs MONiLiFERA. — The iodine test showed the presence of 

 starch in the cortex. Fehling's test for sugar gave no result. 



(5) LiRioDENDRON TULiPiFERA. — Starch is present in the younger 

 and older portions of the stem in the cortex cells. No sugar reaction. 



(6) Salix babylonica. — Iodine showed the presence of starch in 

 the cortex cells and medullary ray cells. Xo starch was found in the 

 pith. Fehling's sugar test was negative. 



(7) TiLiA AMERICANA. — Small starch graias were found in the cor- 

 tex of a one-year old stem. No starch was seen in the cortex of old 

 stems. In water the sections l)ecame strongly mucilaginous. Feh- 

 ling's solution gave no reaction. 



(8) QuERCUs PALUSTRis. — Starch was found in the pith, medullary 

 ray cells and in the wood-parenchyma cells. No starch was detected 

 in the cortex. Fehling's solution gave no starch reaction. 



As far as these micrascopic studies throw light upon the state of 

 the plant's prepare<lness, they seem to sujiport the view that the more 

 prepared a j)lant is and the more responsive its protoplasm is to the 

 influence of external conditions the earlier is its response. For the 

 response of Qucrcus palustn's with deep-seated starch is much more 

 sluggish than the response of the twigs where the starch occui>i in the 

 cortex. This relationship of response to the jiosition of the reserve 

 food should not, however, be pushed too far, as the protoplasm of the 

 twigs and that of the cells of the preformed buds may be infinenfcd 

 without any transformation of the reserve supplies of fooil. \\C do 

 find, however, a sequential development of the l)uds and, as fai' ju< the 

 experiments go to show, that secpiential development is not disturbe(| 

 by the chemicals that are used. The coiu-sc of bud development, 

 therefore, <lei)ends uf)on the state of preparedness (»f the twig and bud, 

 and not on the environmental conditions which surround the plants. 

 Heat is the great factor which determines the opening of the buds. 

 If the plant has the rc(|uisite supply of moisture, heat will accelerate the 




70 I'HOCEEDINGS OF THK ACADKMV OK [Feb., 



opening of biuls; but buds of ilifToivnt species of plants if exposed to 

 the same teniperatiu'e preserve the order of their bud development; 

 but the time interval is very nnicii lessened if the anioimt of heat is 

 increaseii. Tiiis wtis exemplified 1)V a double cliinliinp; white rose 

 growing against the side of a house with a chinme}'- placed in the 

 out.side wall. The heat of the chimney caused the buds over the chim- 

 ney bricks to open at least a week or ten days before tliose on the rest 

 of the bush showed any signs of development. All of the ])uds in the 

 rosebush were equally prepared to open, but only those did so wliich 

 receiveil the stinuilating effect of tlie heated brick surface. 



Experiments of the Second Year. 



The second year of experimentation began ^vith a ])lan for the 

 enlargement of the scope of the work of the previous year. In order 

 to test the question whether chemical solution could alter the sequence 

 of bud development if the buds were obtained from different geographic 

 localities, and in order to test whether the twigs obtained from south- 

 ern latitudes would or would not respond more or less quickly than the 

 twigs from northern latitudes to the new environmental conditions, 

 a circular letter was addressed to all of the agricultural experiment 

 stations and to a few private individuals in the forest-covered portion 

 of the eastern United States from the Gulf States to Maine. The letter 

 read as follows: 



My dear Sir: — In continuation of a study which I liave begun on tlio influence 

 of eliemicals on the opening of buds, I write to ask if j^ou will supply me with 

 twigs of one or several of the following varieties of fruit trees: apple: Baldwin, 

 Early Harvest. Maiden Blush, Red Astraohan, Winesap, York Imperial; cherry: 

 Black Heart, Governor Wood, MorcUo; peach: Early Crawford, Late Crawford, 

 Oldmixon (free); pear: Duchess de Angoulemc, Bartlett, Clapp I'avorite, Flemish 

 Beauty, Kieflfer, Seckel. Tliese twigs I should like cut so as to sliow the last three 

 years of terminal growth. In addition I should hke twigs of the same age of 

 Qiiemis pahtsb-is (the pin oak), Liriodendron (ulipifcra (the tulip poplar), Pojndus 

 inonilifera (the Carolina poplar), ^Icer ruhriim (the red maple), /Esmlua hippn- 

 caKtanum (the horse chestnut), Forsythia riridissima, Tilia americana (the linden), 

 Magnolia conspiciia (Yulan magnolia). If not too much troul)le please send 

 them so as to reach me on January 1.5, 1908, when I expect to start all of the 

 twigs received. 



Tliis letter is printed in full because it describes the character of 

 the material upon which the experiments were made. Replies were 

 received from eleven iastitutions widely enough separated from each 

 other, so as to make the results obtained of interest in connection with 

 the acclimatization of plants and with regard to the influence of hered- 

 ity on the general method and time of bud development. The insti- 

 tutioas which made reply and the names of the tree twigs sent from 




1909.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



71 



2 S- ^ =£. 



^ 1-. 



o 



i ^ 



^ 5 



a 



5^ 



5 « i± 



^ = p 2. o 





Late Crawnird 

 I'eaeh. 



X X X X 



X 

 X X 



oldniixoM Free 



I'eacli. 



Dnrhess de Angou- 



lenic Pear. 



Bartlett Pear. 



("lajip Kaviirite 



I'ear. 

 Flemish Beauty 



Ptar. 



Kicfl'er I'ear. 




72 PROCEEDINGS OF THK ACADKMY OF ll»'l)., 



each station are given in the acconipaiiyinf; tahli*. It will he simmi 

 that the material came from as far .south as Alabama ami jus far north 

 as Massachusetts, and that the twijjis sent by the correspondents w (mc 

 abundant enou<!:h to represent, in many cases, the entire geoj^rajjhic 

 range of the variety studied. Thus the Red Astrachan apple twigs 

 came from PeiuLsylvania State College; College Park, Maryland; 

 Geneva, Xew York; Storrs, Connecticut, and Auburn, Alabanui. 



Bundles of twigs were sent by express in boxes or protected by Inn- 

 lap. Upon their receipt at the Univei-sity they were kei)t in a light. 

 cool, airy cellar until all of the packages had been received. 'V\w 

 experiments, as far as practicable, were started at the same time, 

 viz., on the afternoon of January 22, 1908, and on the morning of 

 January 2:3, 1908. The bottles with chemical solutions had l)een 

 prepared previously. The jare with the twigs were placed in a green- 

 house the temperature of which ranged from about 70° F. at night to 

 90° or 95° in the daytime. The latter temperatvn-e was reached with 

 a bright midday sun. The observation continued uninterruptedly 

 from January 23, 1908, to March 14, when the experimentation \ir- 

 tually stoppetl. Only one change was made in the fluids, viz., on 

 Februar}' 14, 1908. when the evaporated water was resupplied, without 

 the addition of any fresh chemical substance. 



The chemical solutions used w^ere made as follows: 

 Corrosive sublimate. — Strong solution: Ten grams in 850 cubic centi- 

 meters of water. Weak solution: Five grams in same amount of 

 water. 



Copper sulphate. — Strong solution: Ten grams in 850 cubic centi- 

 meters of water. Weak solution: Five grams in same amount of 

 water. 



Sodium chloride. — Strong solution: Ten grams in 850 cubic centi- 

 meters of water. Weak solution: Five grams in same amount of 

 water. 



Ammonium nitrate. — Strong solution: Ten grams in 600 cubic centi- 

 meters of water. Weak solution : Five grams in 600 cubic centimeters 

 of water. 



Ammonium oxalate. — Strong solution: Ten grams in 600 culjic 

 centimeters of water. Weak solution : Five grams in same amount of 

 water. 



Ammonium oxalate. — Strong solution: Ten grams in 600 cubic centi- 

 meters of water. Weak solution: Five grams in same amount of 

 water. 



Potassium chloride. — Strong solution: Ten grams in 900 cubic centi- 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 7o 



meters of water. Weak solution: Five grams in same amount of 

 water. 



Sodium bicarbonate. — Strong solution: Ten grams in 900 cubic 

 centimeters of water. Weak solution : Five grams in the same amount 

 of water. 



Potassium bisulphate = Acid sidphate. — Strong solution: Ten grams 

 in 850 cubic centimetei-s of water. Weak solution : Five grams in the 

 same amount of water. 



Hi/dmchloric Acid. — Strong solution: Ten cubic centimetei"s in 

 800 cubic centimeters of water, only one-half of this liquid being used 

 in the experiment. Weak solution: Five cubic centimetci>^ in SOO 

 cul)ic centimeters of water, only one-half of this li(iuitl was used. 



Acetic Acid. — Strong solution: Ten cubic centimeters in 800 cubic 

 centimetei-s of water, one-half this fjuantity of liquid was used. Weak 

 solution: Five cubic centinietei-s in 800 cubic centimetei-s of water used 

 in one-half the amoiuit of liquid. 



Nitric Acid. — Strf)ng solution: Ten grams used prepared a.s above 

 Weak solution: Five grams as above. 



Chromic Acid. — Strong solution: Ten cubic centimeters of four per 

 cent, acid in 500 cubic centimeters of water, one-half of the amount 

 of iicjuid being used, W\'ak solution: Five cubic centimctei-s of four 

 per cent, acid in 500 cubic centimetei-s of water, lif|uid used in lialf 

 amounts. 



Mcsi(le.s the use of chemical solution water controls were instituted, 

 the twigs from each station being placed in a separate jar of water. 

 Thus there were jai-s for the twigs from the agricultural exj^eriment 

 stations mentioned above. Each of tlie twigs (some 900 in all) was 

 labelleil with a tag on which the locality and the name of the twig 

 were recorded by a selected al)ljreviation, thus Fas A'- indicated that 

 the branch was from an Early Harvest Aj)ple sent from I'emi.syl- 

 vania State College, and that .\ ■^ 1 \V 25 was a twig of the iindcn 

 (Tilin americana) from Ithaca, New York. Tlic results ()l)taiii('d 

 with the twigs from the northern and southern States in the wat(r 

 and in the various chemical solutions, with the date and the charactei- 

 f»f the response, may be given as follows: 



Apple (Baldwin). — 



Corrosive sublimate. — Twigs from Cjcneva, \ew \()rk. showed no 

 response in stnjng corrosive sublimate solution. Twigs from Anihei-st, 

 Ma-ssachusett.s, in weak corrosive sublimate rcspondjMl on January lU 

 by the ea.'iing of the leaf l>uds; on Fei)ruar\' 3 tlu' leaf l)uds had burst; 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF TlIK At'ADKMV OK [Feb., 



on February 4 the fii'st leaf liatl unfolded; on February 11 all the leaves 

 had unfoldal; on February 14 the fii-st leaf had withered, and on 

 Februar}' 21 all the leaves had withered. The twigs from Lafayette, 

 Indiana. responde<l by the bui^stini; of the buds on Fel)ruary 3; on 

 February 5 the first leaf had unfolded; on Fei)ruary 8 all the leaves 

 had unfolded; on February 11 the fii'st leaf had withered; on February 

 14 all the leaves had withered. 



Copper sulpluUc. — Twigs of this apple from Storrs, Connecticut, did 

 not respond. Those from Amherst, Massachusetts, responded by 

 the bursting of the buds on February 7; on Fe])ruaiy 8 the fii'st leaf 

 had unfolded; on February 15 all the leaves had unfolded, while on 

 February IS all the leaves had withered. The twigs from Lafayette, 

 Indiana, in weak copper sulphate solution responded on February 8 

 by the bui-sting of the buds; on February 11 the fii'st leaf had unfolded; 

 on February 24 the twig had gone bad. 



Sodium chloride. — Twigs of the Bahh^in Apple in a weak solution 

 of common salt responded on February 1 by an easing of the buds; 

 on February 3 the buds had burst; on February 4 the first leaf had 

 imfolded, while by February 14 all of the leaves had withered. The 

 twigs obtained from Lafayette, Indiana, made no response. 



Ammonium nitrate. — ^The twigs from Lafayette, Indiana, in a strong 

 solution of this chemical made response on February 5 l)y the bursting 

 of the buds. No other response was noted. 



Ammotiium oxalate. — ^The twigs of this apple sent from New Bruns- 

 wick, New Jersey, responded by the easement of the buds on January 

 29. No other r&sponse was noted. In weak ammonium oxalate the 

 apple twigs from Lafayette, Indiana, made no response. 



Potassium chloride. — The apple twigs from Storrs, Connecticut, in 

 weak potassium chloride eased their buds on February 3. The buds 

 burst on February 4; on Februaiy 5 the first leaf had unfolded; on 

 February 11 all the leaves had unfolded, while on February 11 the first 

 leaf had withered. 



Sodium bicarbonate. — The Baldwin Apple twigs from Pennsylvania 

 State College did not respond in a strong solution of sodium bicar- 

 bonate. The New Jersey grown twigs responded on February 3 and 

 on February 7 the buds had burst. On February 14 all the leaves 

 ha<l withered; January 29 the flower buds harl cased. The weak 

 solution of tliis salt acted more favorably. On February 3 the leaf 

 buds of a Connecticut twig had burst, while a Michigan grown twig 

 responded first on January 30; while on January 31 the leaf buds and 

 a first leaf had unfolded. January 29 witnessed the bursting of the 

 first flower bud. 




1909.] XATIRAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 75 



Potassium hisulphate. — The twigs from Stori's, Connecticut, kept in 

 weak potassium hisulphate responded by the easing of the buds on 

 February 4; on February 5 the buds had buret, and on February 7 

 the fii-st leaf had unfolded. The twigs from Michigan made a slight 

 respoase in this weaker solution by the bureting of the buds on Feb- 

 ruary 1. 



Hydrochloric Acid. — The Baldwin Apple twigs from Michigan in the 

 weak acid solution niatle no response. 



Acetic Acid. — No respoiLse in the strong acetic acid solution. Twigs 

 from Storrs, Connecticut, responded by the buds easing on January 

 31. After the buds had l)urst on Februaiy 11 no other response was 

 noted. 



S itric Acid. — No respoiLse. 



Water. — The Baldwin Apple twigs from Pennsylvania State College 

 responded on Januar}- 29 b)' the easement of the flower buds ; on Feb- 

 ruary 3 the flower and leaf buds had buret ; on February 4 the flower 

 buds had protruded from the Avinter bud scales. On Februar}' 18 

 all of the flowere were found withered. The twigs from New Bruns- 

 wick, New Jereey, responded on February 1 with the easement of the 

 leaf buds; on February' 3 the leaf buds had buret; on February 5 the 

 flower buds buret; while on February 7 the firet leaf was unfolded, and 

 on Februaiy 21 all of the leaves had unfolded. The flowers made no 

 furtiier response. The twigs from Geneva, New York, responde<l on 

 January 31 by an easement of the buds. On February 4 the leaf buds 

 had buret. The twigs from Storre, Connecticut, responded as follows : 

 February 1 leaf and flower buds cased; Fcl)ruary 3 leaf and flt)wer 

 buds buret; February 4 firet leaf unfolded. From this time until 

 death no otiier developments were noted. The development of tiic 

 twigs from .Massachusetts sliowed a more steady couree. On January 

 31 the buds had cased ; on February 4 the l)uds iiad buret ; on February 

 5 the firet leaf had unfolded ; on February 8 all the leaves iiatl unfolded ; 

 on February 14 the firet leaf had withenMl. The Midiigan twigs 

 responded firet on January 29 with the easing of the buds; on January 

 31 the buds ha<l Ijuret; on Fel)ruaiy 1 the firet leaf had unfolded; on 

 February 4 all of the leaves had unfolded, while <»ii Fel)ruary 11 tlie 

 first leaf had withcrc<l and on February 18 all of theleaveshad withereil. 

 The Baldwin apple twigs from Lafayette. Indiana, made response on 

 February 4 with the l)ureting <»f the l)U«ls. On February (i the firet 

 leaf had luifolded and (»n February 14 all of the twius were dead. 



Apple (Early IIarve«t). — 



Corrosii'c sid>lim(itr. — The twigs from Colleire Park, Maryhiiid. in 




76 procp:eding.s of tiii: acadk.my of [1' <-''>• r 



strong corrosive sublimate solution responded on February 5 with the 

 oasiim of the biuls ; on Febniary 7 the leaf buds iuid burst ; on February 

 11 the hi-st leaf had unfolded, while on February 14 all of the leaves 

 had expanded. The leaves had all withered by February 21. In 

 weak solution the buds of the twif::s from Auburn. Alabama, had eased 

 on January 81 ; on February 4 the leaf buds had bui-st, and on February 

 11 the first leaf had unfolded. 



Copper sulphatv. — The twigs from College Park, Maryland, in strong- 

 solution showed response on February 1 when the leaf and flower buds 

 had eased; on February 4 the flower buds had burst. No other re- 

 sponse followed. The twigs from Pennsylvania State College responded 

 on February IS, seventeen days later than those from Maryland, but 

 the buds remained closed without bureting. In weak solution tiie 

 twigs from Auburn, Alabama, responded February 1 by the easing of 

 the flower butls and leaf buds on February 5, and by February 15 

 the fii-st leaf had unfolded. No other response. 



Sodium chloride. — The buds on twigs from College Park, Maryland, 

 in strong solution responded slightly on February 5 without any 

 advance. 



Ammonium nitrate. — The twigs from College Park, Maryland, in 

 weak solution responded on February 1 by the easing of the Ijuds. 

 No other response. 



Ammonium oxalate. — Twigs from College Park, Maryland, and Gene\a, 

 N*ew York, in strong solutions of this chemical made no response. In 

 a weak solution the twigs from Auburn, Alabama, responded by the 

 bursting of the leaf buds on February 14 and by the expansion of the 

 first leaf on P'ebruarj^ 15, 



Potassium chloride. — In strong solutions the branches from College 

 Park, Maryland, and Geneva, New York, made no response. 



Sodium bicarbonate. — The twigs from College Park, ^Maryland, made 

 no respoiLse in strong solution. 



Potassium bisulphate. — Twigs from Pennsylvania State College 

 made no response in strong solution, neither did those from Aubvu'ii, 

 Alabama, in weak chemical. 



Acetic Acid. — The twigs from Auburn, Alabama, in weak acid showed 

 no change and eventually died. 



Nitric Acid. — The buds on twigs from Auburn, Alabama, showed 

 a slight response in weak acid by the easing of the buds. Eventually 

 the twig died. 



Chromic Acid. — The specimens from Aubuin, .\labama, in weak 

 acid made no r^^pon^e. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENX'ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 77 



Water. — The Early Harvest apple twigs from Pennsyh-ania State 

 College made a slight response by the easing of the buds on January 

 31. Those from Maniand burst their flower buds on February 4 

 and their leaf buds on Februaiy 14. The twigs from Geneva. New 

 York, showed a more steady course of development. On Februaiy 4 

 the buds had ea.sed; on February 5 the buds had biu^st ; on February 

 1 1 the fii"st leaf had expanded, and on February 24 all of the leaves had 

 unfolded, some of which remained green until March 14. The only 

 responses of the twigs from Alabama were on January 29 when tlie 

 flower buds had easecl, and on February 18 when the leaf buds had 

 buist. 



Apple (Maiden Blush). — 



Corrosive sublimote. — In weak solution the twigs from Ston-s, Con- 

 necticut, responded on Februaiy 4 when the leaf buds showed signs 

 of swelling. On February 5 the leaf buds had bui-st and on Februai}- 

 7 the first leaf had unfolded. The twigs from Lafayette, Indiana, re- 

 s])((nilod on February 4 and on February 7 the leaf buds had bui-st. 



Copper sulphate. — The twigs from Lansing, Michigan, bui-st their 

 bud-; on February 1 without other response. 



Soflium chloride. — The buds on twigs from Storrs, Connecticut. 

 responded on February 7 without other change. Those on twigs from 

 Lafayette, Indiana, bui-st on February 14. with tlio expansion of tl.e 

 first leaf on February 15. 



Ammonium nitrate. — In strong solutions of this chemical the leaf 

 buds burst on February 3; the first leaf unfolded February 4. and the 

 first flower bud bui-st on February 1 on twigs from Lansing, .Michigan. 

 The only response of twigs from Lafayette. Indiana, was on .laniiaiy 

 31 when the leaf buds burst. 



Ammonium oxalate. — The buds on twigs from College Turk. .Maiyhuid, 

 responded on February 5, and on February 7 the first leaf bud had iiui-st 

 in strong solution. In weak solution the Connecticut twigs made no 

 res|)onse. Those from Lafayette, Indiana, responded by the <>asiiig 

 of the buds on January 31 : bud bui-sting on I'ebniaiy 3 and leaf 

 unfolding Februaiy 1 L 



I'otassium chloride- No response in strong solution. The Stony. 

 Connecticut, twigs in weak S()luti<»n rcspondcil on IVbruary 3 and the 

 leaf buds bui-st on February '). The i)uds of the Lafayette. Indiana, 

 twigs responded January 29 and had burst by Icbrnary L 



Sodium liirnrhonate.— The twigs in a weak solution of this cliemical 

 responded on February o, but after that datethey were at a staiiil.-till. 

 The twigs from Indiana and .Maljama made no respon.'^o. 




7S PROCEEDINGS OF THH \r\I)i:MV i)V [I'<1>. , 



Potassium hisulphate (strong and weak). -NO response of any of tlie 

 twigs. 



Hydrochloric Acid. — In strong; acid the twigs from College I'aik, 

 Marylaiul, made no response; those from Geneva, New York, did not. 

 In weak solution those from Storrs. Connecticut, and Lansing, Michigan, 

 showed no response. Those from Lafayette, Indiana, responded on 

 February 4; on February 5 the buds had bui-st and on February 7 

 the first leaf had expanded. 



Acetic Acid. — The buds on twigs from College Park, Maryland, re- 

 sponded on February 1 in strong acid. In weak acid the buds on twigs 

 from Storrs, Connecticut, had buret on Feliruary 4, and by February 

 7 the firet leaf had unfolded. The fii"st leaf withered on Februar}^ 14. 



Nitric Acid. — In strong solution the twigs from College Park, Mary- 

 land, had responded by February 1. No other advance was made. 

 In weak acid those from Lafayette, Indiana, responded on Febi'uary 

 3 and the first leaf burst on February 4. No other change was shown. 



Chromic Acid. — In strong chromic acid the tAvigs of the Maiden 

 Blush apple from College Park, ]\Iaryland, responded on January 21). 

 February 1 marks the response of the flower buds; February 3 the 

 bursting of the leaf buds; February 7 the opening of the flowei-s; 

 Februaiy 14 the opening of the first leaf and the withering of the 

 flowers. By February 18 all the leaves had withered. In dilute 

 chromic acid, the flower buds on twigs from Lansing, Michigan, showed 

 respoase on January 29. On January 29 the flower buds had bui-st 

 and on January 31 they w^ere all closed. On February 8 the first loaf 

 bud had burst and on Feliruary 11 the first leaf was luifolded. The 

 leaf buds on twigs from Lafayette, Indiana, responded on Januaiy^ 

 29. The leaf buds burst on February 1 and the flower buds on Ic h- 

 ruary 7. The leaf buds on twigs from Auburn, Alabama, i-espondcd 

 on February 4. The first leaf and flower buds burst simultaneously 

 on February 11. The first leaf unfolded on February 14 and all the 

 leaves on Februarys 21. The first leaf withered on March 4. 



Water. — The leaf buds on twigs from College Park, Maryland, 

 responded on January 29; the leaf buds burst on February 3 and 

 the first leaf unfolded on February 4. The firet flower bud burst on 

 February' 7. The flower buds on twigs from Geneva, New Yoi-k, 

 responded on January 29. On February 3 the flower buds had bui-st. 

 On January 31 the first leaf had unfolded. No other change was 

 recorded. The leaf buds of twigs from Connecticut responded (.n 

 February 4, the buds burst on February 5 and the first leaf unfolded 

 Februar}- 11. By February 24 all the leaves had withered, 'i'hc 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 79 



flower buds on twigs from Michigan responded on Januaiy 29 and 

 burst on February' 3. The leaf buds responded February 1, hui-st 

 February 11 together with the unfolding of the fii^st leaf. The leaf 

 buds on twigs from Lafayette. Indiana, responded Februaiy 1, bui-st on 

 February 3; the first leaf unfolded February 4; all the leaves expanded 

 February 6. By Februaiy 14 all the leaves had withered. The twigs 

 from Auljurn, Alabama, re.'^ponded poorly by the unfolding of the fii-st 

 leaf on February 21. 



Having described the coui-se of development of the buds and twigs 

 from three different varieties of apple, we may tabulate the remainder 

 of the observatioas in order to shorten the descriptive account. 



Apple (Red Astrachan). — 



Corrosive sublimate (strong). — College Park, Maryland: Leaf Inids 

 eased February 4; leaf buds biu^st Fel^ruary 5. 



Corrosive sublimate (weak). — Aubiu'ii, Alal)ama: Leaf buds bui-st 

 February 7; fii*st leaf unfolded Februaiy 14; all leaves unfolded Feb- 

 ruary 24; fii-st leaf withered Februaiy 15. 



Copper sulphate (strong). — College Park, Maryland : No response. 



Copper sulphate (weak). — Auburn, Alabama: Leaf buds eased Feb- 

 ruary 7; leaf buds l>ui-st February 8; fii^st leaf unfolded February 11 ; 

 all loaves unfolded Februaiy 21 ; first leaf withered March 7; all 

 leaves withered March 11. 



Sodium chloride (strong). — College Park, Maryland : Leaf buds 

 eased January 30; leaf buds burst Januaiy 31, Pennsylvania State 

 College: First leaf unfolded February 5. 



Sodium chloride (weak). — Ston-s, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased 

 January '.i\ ; leaf buds burst Februaiy- 3; firet leaf unfolded February 

 4; all leaves unfolded February 7; fii-st leaf withered Febiunry II; 

 all leaves withered February IS. 



Ajnmonium nitrate (weak). — College Park. Maiyhind: Leaf \nu\> 

 easeil February o; leaf buds bui-st February 7; fii-st leaf unfoMcd 

 Februaiy 11 ; all leaves withered February 21. 



Ammonium oxalate (strong). — College Park. Maryland: Leaf buds 

 eased February 3; flower buds eased January 2*1; (lower buds bui-sl 

 February o; flowei-s open February 7. 



Ammonium oxalate (weak). — Storrs, Connecticut : .\«) response. 



Potassium chloride (strong).- College Park. Maryland: No response. 



I'otassium chloride (weak). — 



StoiTs, Conn. Lansing, .Mich. 



Leaf btids vii^v<l Fel)ruar>' 3. January 30. 



Leaf buds burst ..Fel)ruar\' 5. I"ebruar>' L 



I'ii-st loaf unfolded Februarv It. I'ebrnar\- II. 




so 



PROCEKniMiS OF TllK .^(•AI)1■;.M^ OK 



[Fell 



Sodium bicarbonate (stronp;). — No response of twigs from C'ollejic 

 Park, Maryland, and Geneva. New York. 

 Sodium bicarbomiie (weak). — 



Leaf buds cased 



Leaf bvids hurst 



First leaf unfolded. 



Storrs, Conn. I Lansing, Mich. ' Auburn, .•\la. 



February I. 



February 4. 



Feliruary 3. 

 February 7. 



P'eliruary 7. 

 February 21. 



Potassium bisidphate (weak). — ^Storre, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased 

 Fehruarv 1; leaf buds burst February 7; first leaf unfolded February 

 11. Auburn, Alabama: No response. 



Hydrochloric Acid (strong). — Ston-s, Connecticut: Leaf buds bui-st 

 February 4. 



Acetic Acid (strong). — rennsylvania State College: No response. 



Acetic Acid (weak). — 



.\ubum, Ala. 



Lansing, Mich. 



Leaf buds eased ' February 5. 



l^af buds burst February 7. 



First leaf unfolded February 14. 



.\11 leaves unfolded February 18. 



First leaf withered February 24 



January 31. 



Storrs, Conn. 



February 3. 

 Felirviary 4. 



Nitric Acid (weak). — 



Storrs, Conn. Auburn, Ala. 



Lear buds eased February 4. February 7. 



Leaf buds burst February 5. February 11. 



Chromic Acid (weak). — Stori-s, Connecticut: Leaf buds burst Feb- 

 ruary 3; fii-st leaf unfolded February 4; all leaves unfolded February 

 11 ; first leaf withered February 21 ; all leaves withered February 24. 



Water.— 



Pennsyl- 

 vania 

 State 



College. 



^ff^ ' Geneva, 



M^' ' New 

 Mary- 



land. 



York. 



Storrs, Lansing, 

 Connec- Michi- 

 ticut, gan. 



Auburn , 

 .Mabania 



I^af buds eased 



Tjeaf buds burst 



First leaf unfolded.. 



All leaves unfolded ' Feb. 7. 



First leaf withered ! Feb. 7.i 



.\11 leaves withered ' Feb. 21.' 



Flower buds eased I Jan. 29.. 



Feb. 5. 



Jan. 30. 



Feb. 1.1 Fob. 11. 



I Feb. 3. 



Feb. 4. 



Jan. 31.1 Feb. 7. 



Feb. IS i Feb. 8. 



Mar. 17. Feb. 18. Feb. 14. 

 Feb. 24. 



P'eb. 4. 

 Feb. 6. 



Feb. 6. 

 Feb. 11. 

 Feb. 14. 

 Feb. 21. 

 Feb. 21. 

 Feb. 28. 




1909.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



81 



Apple (Winesap). — : 



Corrosive sublimate (weak). — Lafayette. Indiana: L«af buds eased 

 February 5; leaf buds burst February 7. 



Twigs from Lafayette, Indiana, in copper sulphate (weak), sodium 

 chloride (weak), ammonium nitrate (strong), ammonium oxalate 

 (weak), showed no respoase. 



Those from Auburn, Alabama, in potassium chloride (weak) and 

 sodium bicarbonate showed no response. The twigs from College 

 Park, Mar>'land, in strong hydrochloric acid did not respond. Neither 

 did those from Geneva, New York, in strong nitric acid and strong 

 chromic acid. 



Acetic Acid (strong). — College Park, Maryland: Leaf buds eased 

 February 3 ; leaf buds burst February 4 ; first leaf unfolded February 1 1 . 



Water. — Twigs from Auburn, Alabama, did not respond. 



Apple (York Imperial). — 



Corrosive sublimate (weak). — Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds burst 

 February' 4. 



Copper sulphate (weak). — Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased 

 February 4; leaf buds burst Februar}- 5. 



Sodium chloride (weak). — Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds ea'^ed I'ob- 

 ruarj' 4; leaf buds burst Februaiy 5; first leaf imfolded February 7. 

 Amherst, Ma^^sachusetts : Leaf buds ea'^e^l Januan,' 31 ; leaf buds burst 

 February 4; first leaf imfoldod I'ebruary 5; all leaves unfolded Feb- 

 ruary 11 ; first leaf withered February 14; all leaves withered February 

 21 ; flower buds ease<l February 1 1. 



Ammonium oxalate (weak). — Storrs, Connecticut: No response. 



potassium chloride (weak). — 



l.<'jif bud.s eii-Hcd...... 



I.<-af buds l)urst 



First leaf unfolded 

 All Ic'ivfs witli<Tf<l 



Storrs, Conn, 



February 1 . 

 Ff'hriinrv .3. 



.'Vmherst, 

 Mass. 



Fehruarj* 5. 

 February 1 1. 

 Ffliruarv II. 



I.Afayette, 

 Ind. 



February 7. 

 February 1 1 . 

 February 14. 

 Febriiarv '2\ . 



Auburn. Al:i 



Fi-l)ruary II. 

 Fflirunr\' I.'). 




82 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



Sodium bicarbonate (strong).— College Park, Maryland : No response. 

 Sodium bicarbonaU (weak). — ^Auburn, Alabama: No response. 



Leaf biuls eased 



Loaf buds burst 



First leaf unfolded... 

 First leaf withered... 

 All leaves withered. 



Storrs, Conn. 



February 3. 

 February 4. 



Lafayette, Ind. 



February 6. 

 February 7. 



Amherst, Mass. 



January 31. 



February 3. 

 February 14. 

 February 21. 



Potassium bisulphate (weak).— Storrs, Connecticut, and Auburn, 

 Alabama: No response. Lafayette, Indiana: Buds burst February 8; 

 first leaf unfolded February 14; all leaves withered February 24. 



No response was obtained in twigs from Storre, Connecticut; Auburn, 

 Alabama; College Park, Maryland, and Geneva, New York, in hydro- 

 cliloric acid (strong and weak), acetic acid (strong) and nitric acid 

 (strong and weak). 



Acetic Acid (weak). — 



Storrs, Conn. Lafayette, Ind. 



Leaf buds eased February 5. 



Leaf buds burst February 11. 



First leaf unfolded February 14. 



Chromic Acid (strong),— College Park, Maryland: Leaf buds eased 

 February 14. 



Chromic Acid (weak).— Auburn, Alabama: No response. Storre, 

 Connecticut: Leaf buds eased February 3; leaf buds burst February 

 4; first leaf unfolded February 7; all leaves unfolded February 14; 

 all leaves withered February 21. 



Water. — Lafayette, Indiana : Twigs gave no response. 



College 



Park, 



Maryland. 



Leaf buds eased 



Leaf buds burst ; Feb. 11. 



First leaf unfolded... 



.■\.ll leaves unfolded 



First leaf withered.... 



All leaves withered....! Feb. 21. 



Auburn, 

 Alabama. 



Geneva, 

 New York. 



Storrs, .\mher.st, 

 Connec- Massa- 

 ticut. chusetts. 



Feb. 11. 

 Feb. 15. 

 Feb. 18. 



Jan. 30. 

 Jan. 31. 

 Feb. 3. 

 Feb. 7. 



Feb. 14. 



Feb. 1. 

 Feb. 4. 



Feb. 1. 

 Feb. 3. 

 Feb. 7. 

 Feb. 11. 

 Feb. 14. 

 Feb. 18. 



Cherry (Governor Wood). — 



No respoase of twigs from College Park, Maryland, in strong potas- 

 sium chloride, strong sodium bicarbonate, and in water. 




1909.] 



NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



83- 



Cherry (Napoleon Bigarreau). — 



No response of twigs from Pennsylvania State College in sti'ong 

 ammonium oxalate and strong hydrochloric acid. In water the flower 

 buds were eased on January 30. 



Cherry (Morello). — 



No response of the twigs from New Brunswick. New Jersey, in strong 

 copper sulphate: of thase from Pennsylvania State College in strong 

 potassium bisulphate; of those from Amhei'st, Massachusetts, in weak 

 potassium bisulphate; of those from Pennsylvania State College in 

 strong hydrochloric acid. 



Sodium chloride (strong). — New Brunswick. New Jersey: Leaf l)uds 

 eased Januarj' 28. 



Ammonium nitrate (weak). — Penn.sylvania State College: Leaf 

 buds eased January 28; flower buds eased January 29. 



Ammonium oxalate (weak). — Amherst, Massachusetts: Leaf buds 

 eased February 8; flower buds eased January 20: flower buds Ijui-st 

 February 3. 



Potassium chloride (strong). — New Brunswick, New Jeivey: Leaf 

 buds eased January 30; flower buds eased Januaiy 30. 



Sodium bicarbonate (weak). — Amhei'st, Massachusetts: Flower buds 

 ease<l January 29; flower buds burst February 3. 



Nitric Acid (strong). — Pennsylvania State College: Leaf buds 

 cased January 31; flower buds easeil January 29. 



Water.— 



I'kacii f Early Crawford). — 



No response as tabulate<l below: 



Corrosive sublimate (strong). — College Park, .Maiylaiid. 



Copper sulphfUe (strong). — College Park, Maryland. 



Sodium chloride (strong). — College Park, .Maryland. 



Ammonium nitrate (weak). — College Park, .Maryland. 



UV;/( /— College Park. Maryland. 




84 PROCEEDINGS OK THE ACADEMY OK [I'VI)., 



Copper sulphfile (weak). — Auburn. Alabama. 



Amnwnium oxalntr (\V(^ak). — Auburn, Alal)aiua. 



Wnier. — Auburn. Alabama. 



Hydrochloric ^icid (strong). — Geneva, New \ovk. 



Wntcr. — (leneva, New York. 



Ammonium niiratc (strong). — Auburn, Alabama: Leal' buds cjised 

 January 29; leaf buds burst January .'^1 ; first leaf unfolded I'eb- 

 ruary 7. 



Peach (Late Crawford). 



Twigs from the stations indicated in a j)revious table were placed 

 in solutions of corrosive sublimate (weak), copper sulphate (weak), 

 sodium chloride (weak), ammoniimi nitrate (strong), ammonium 

 oxalate (weak). pota.ssium chloride (strong and weak), sodium bicar- 

 bonate (strong and weak), potassium bisuli)iuite (strong), hydrochloric 

 acid (strong), acetic acid (strong), without showing any response. The 

 twigs in water eased their flower buds on .January 31 and on February 

 5 the flower buds had bui-st. 



Peach (Oldmixon Free). — 



No response of any description of the twigs from the various stations 

 noted in the table at the beginning of the experimental record in any 

 of the various experimental fluids except water. This and the inune- 

 diately preceding series indicates that the peach is peculiarly sensitive 

 to the action of such chemicals as were used. In water the twigs from 

 CJollege Park, Maryland, responded as follows: Leaf buds eased Feb- 

 ruary 1 ; leaf buds burst February 7 ; flower buds Ijurst February 8. 



Pear (Duchess de Angouleme). — 



Corrosive sublimate (weak). — Storrs, Comiecticut : Leaf buds eased 

 February 1. 



Sodium chloride (weak). — Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds bui-st 

 February 1 ; flower buds burst February 4. 



Potassium, chloride (strong). — College Park, Maryland: I'lowcr 

 buds burst January 29. 



Potassium chloride (weak). — Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased 

 February 4; flower buds eased January 29. 



Sodium bicarbonate (strong). — College Park, .Maryland: Leaf buds 

 ease^l Feljruary 4. 



Potassium bisulphate (strong). — College Park, Maryland: Leaf buds 

 burst January 29. 




1909.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



8$ 



Acetic Acid (strong). — New Brunswick, New Jei-sey: Flower buds 

 eased January 29. 



Chromic Acid (strong). — New Brunswick, New Jersey: Leaf buds 

 bui-st February 3 ; flower buds buret January 29. 



Water.— 



Pear (Bartlett).— 



No response was observed in twigs from stations as follows : Geneva, 

 New York, twigs in strong corrosive sublimate; New Brunswick, New 

 Jersey, twigs in strong copper sulphate; Storre, Connecticut, twigs 

 in copper sulphate (weak), and in weak ammonium oxalate; Lansing, 

 Michigan, twigs in weak sodium bicarbonate. 



Corrosive sublimate (weak). — Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased 

 Januar}' 31; leaf buds burst February 4; firet leaf unfolded February 

 7; firet leaf withered February 11. 



Copper sulphfite (weak). — Amheret, Massachusetts: Firet leaf un- 

 folded February 5; firet leaf withered February 11. 



Sodium chloride (strong). — New Brunswick, New Jereey: Leaf bud 

 burst February 7. 



Sodium chloride (weak), — Storre, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased 

 Februaiy 1 ; leaf bufls buret February 5. Lansing, Michigan : Leaf 

 buds buret January 31; firet leaf unfoldc<l February 4; all leaves 

 withere<l February 24; flower buds eased January 29; flower buds 

 buret February 3; flowere close<l February 13. 



Potassium chloride (weak).^ — Storre, Coimecticut : Leaf buds eased 

 February 4; leaf buds Ixiret February 5. Lan.^iiig, .Michigan: Firet 

 leaf unfolded February 3, 



Sodium bicarbonate (strong), — University of Tennsylvania: Ix?af 

 buds cased February 4; leaf buds buret February 5. 



Sodium bicarbonate (weak). — Amheret, Massachusetts : Leaf buiis 

 ease<l January 21 ; leaf buds buret February 3. 



J^otassium bisulphate (weak). — Lansing, Michigan: Leaf l»uds eased 



I 




S6 



PROCEEDINGS OK TIIK ACADHNH OK 



[IVl)., 



Februaiy 1 ; leaf buds burst February 3; Hower buds bui-st .lauuaiy 

 28. 



Acetic Acid (strong). — University of Pennsylvania: Leaf buds 

 eased February 1 ; leaf buds burst February .3; first leaf unfolded 

 Februar}- 4 ; all leaves withered February 8. 



Nitric Acid (strong). — University of Pennsylvania: Ueaf buds eased 

 January 29; leaf buds burst Januarj'- 31; first leaf unfolded February 

 3 ; all leaves withered February 8. 



Chromic Acid (strong). — Univei'sity of Pennsylvania: First leaf 

 unfolded February 3; all leaves unfolded February 4; first leaf 

 withered February 8; all leaves withered February 14; flower buds 

 eased January 29; flower buds burst January 30; flowers closed 

 Januarj- 31; first flower withered February 11. 



Water. — 



Pear (Clapp Favorite). — 



No response was observed Avith twigs from New Brunswick, New 

 Jersey, in strong copper sulphate; \\-ith twigs from Storrs, Connecticut, 

 in weak ammonium oxalate. 



Corrosive sublimate (strong). — New Brunswick, New Jersey: Leaf 

 buds eased February 1 ; leaf buds burst February 3 ; first leaf unfolded 

 February 7 ; all leaves unfolded February 1 1 ; first leaf withered Feb- 

 ruarys 14; all leaves withered February 24. 



Sodium chloride (strong). — New Brunswick, New Jersey: Leaf buds 

 eased February 1. 



Sodium chloride (weak). — Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased 

 January 31 ; leaf buds burst February 3. 



Amm/ynium nitrate (weak). — New Bnmswick, New Jersey: Leaf 




1909.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



87 



buds eased February 3 ; leaf buds burst February 5 ; first leaf unfolded 

 February 7 ; first leaf withered February 11; all leaves withered 

 February 21. 



Potassium chloride (weak). — Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased 

 Februar}' 5. 



Sodium bicarbonate (weak). — Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased 

 January 31 ; leaf buds burst February 3 ; first leaf withered February 

 8; flowers buds burst January 25. Laasing, Michigan: Leaf l^uds 

 burst February 1 ; flower buds eased January 27. 



Potassiimi bisulphate (weak). — Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased 

 January 30; leaf buds burst February 1; first leaf unfolded February 

 4; first leaf withered February 7; all leaves withered February 8. 

 Laasing, Michigan: Leaf buds eased January 30; first leaf unfolded 

 Februar}' 3; flower buds burst January 29; flowei"s closed January- 29; 

 flowers open January 31 ; all flowers withered February 5. 



Ih/drochloric Acid (strong). — Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased 

 February 1 ; leaf buds burst February 4. 



Acetic Acid (weak). — Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased February 

 3; leaf buds burst Februar}'- 4; first leaf unfolded February 8; fii'st 

 leaf withered February 8; all leaves withered February 11. 



Nitric Acid (weak). — Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds l)urst Feb- 

 ruary 5. 



Chromic Acid (weak). — Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased Feb- 

 ruary 1; leaf buds burst February 3; first leaf unfolded February 7; 

 all loaves unfolclc<l Fobruar}' 8. 



Water.— 



New Brunswick, 

 New Jersey. 



Ivcaf buds eased January 30. 



Ijeaf buds burst February 4. 



Kirst Icif unfolded ' February 7. 



All leaves unfolded ! February 8. 



First leaf withered I 



All leaves withered February 24. 



Storrs, Lansing, 



Connecticut. .Miclii>;an. 



January 31. i January 30. 

 February .5. January 31. 



February 7. 



February 11. 



February 14. j 



Pear (Flemish Beauty). — 



Corrosive sublimate (woak). — Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds ca.'^ed 

 February 1; first loaf unfuidod Fol)ruary 4; all loavtw withered l-eb- 

 ruary 14. Lafayette, Indiana: Leaf buds eased February 3; loaf 

 buds burst February 5; first leaf unff)Ido<l February S; all leaves un- 

 folded February 11; all leaves withered Fel>ruary 14. 




88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [It'b., 



Copper sulphate (weak). — Ston-s. C'omieeticul : Loaf hiids oased 

 Februar}' 3 ; leaf buds burst February 4. 



Sodium chloride (weak). — Lafayette, Indiana: Leaf buds bui-st 

 Februar}' 3; first leaf unfolded February 7; all leaves withered Feb- 

 ruary 24. 



Storrs. CoiuKH'ticut : Leaf buds eased January 31; leaf buds bui"s^ 

 February 3; fii*st leaf unfolded February 7; fii^st leaf withered b'ebruary 

 11 : all leaves withered Februaiy 14. 



Ammonium ox(date (weak). — Storrs. Connecticut: No response. 

 Lansing, Michigan: Leaf buds eased February 4. 



Potassium chloride (weak). — Storrs. Connecticut: Leaf buds eased 

 February 4. Lansing. Michigan: T^eaf ])uds buret February 3; first 

 leaf unfolded February 5; all leaves withered February 11; flower 

 buds eased January 29. Lafayette, Indiana : No response. 



Sodium bicarbonate (weak). — Storrs, Connecticut : Leaf ])uds burst 

 February 1; fii-st leaf unfolded February 7; all leaves withered Feb- 

 ruary 21. Lafayette, Indiana: Leaf buds eased February 1. 



Potassiutyi bisulphate (weak). — Ston-s, Connecticut: No response. 

 Lafayette, Indiana: Leaf buds eased January 31; leaf buds burst 

 February 1. 



Hydrochloric Acid (strong). — Storre, Connecticut: No response. 



Acetic Acid (weak). — Lafayette, Indiana: No response. 



Water. — New Brunswick, New Jersey: No response. Stori-s, Con- 

 necticut : Leaf buds eased January 31 ; leaf buds ]:)urst February 3. 

 Lansing, Michigan : Leaf buds eased February 1 ; leaf buds bui-st 

 February 3. Lafayette, Indiana : Leaf buds eased February 1 ; leaf 

 l)uds buret Februar\^ 3; firet leaf unfolded February 4; all leaves 

 unfolded February 21; firet leaf withered February 21. 



Pear (Ivieffer).^ 



Corrosive sublimate (weak). — Storre, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased 

 February 4; leaf buds burst February 7. Lansing, Michigan: First 

 leaf unfolded Januan,^ 31; all leaves unfolded February 4; first leaf 

 withered February 8; all leaves withered February 11; flower buds 

 eased January 27 ; flower buds buret January 28 ; flowers open January 

 29; firet flower withered February 3. Lafayette, Indiana: Leaf buds 

 eased Januar}' 31; leaf buds buret February 3; firet leaf unfolded 

 February 5; all leaves unfolded February 8; firet leaf withered Feb- 

 ruary 11 ; all leaves withered February 14. 



Copper sulphate (weak). — Storre, Connecticut: No response. Lan- 

 sing, Michigan: Leaf buds eased January 31 ; leaf buds buret February 




1009. J NATURAL SCIKXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 89 



1 . Lafayette, Indiana : Leaf buds burst Februaiy 1 ; firet leaf unfolded 

 Fel)ruar}' 4. 



Sodium chloride (weak). — Storrs, Connecticut: No response. 

 Lafayette. Indiana : Leaf buds eased February 4 ; leaf buds burst 

 February 7. 



Ammonium nitrate (strong). — Lafayette, Indiana: Leaf buds eased 

 January 30; leaf buds bui-st January 31; firet leaf unfolded February- 

 4; fii-st leaf withered February 8; all leaves withered February 21. 

 Auburn, Alabama: Leaf buds eased January 31; leaf buds burst Feb- 

 ruary 4; first leaf unfolded February 7; all leaves unfolded February 

 11; first leaf withered February 14; all leaves withered February 24. 



Ammonium nitrate (weak). — State College, Pennsylvania: Leaf 

 buds eased January 31 ; leaf buds buret February 1 ; all leaves withered 

 Fe})ruary 24. Ithaca. New York: No reaction. 



Ammonium oxalate (strong). — New Brunswick, New Jersey: Leaf 

 buds eased January 30; leaf buds buret February 3. Ithaca, New 

 ■^'ork: No reaction. 



Ammonium oxalate (weak). — Lafayette, Indiana: Leaf buds eased 

 January 31; leaf buds buret February 3; firet leaf unfolded February 

 4; firet leaf withered February 7; all leaves withered February 24. 



Potassium chloride (strong). — College Park, Maryland, and Ithaca, 

 New York: No response. 



I'otassium chloride (weak). — Twigs from Storre, Connecticut, Lafay- 

 ette, Indiana, and Auburn, Alabama, showed no response. 



Sodium bicarbonate (strong). — Twigs from College Park, Maryland, 

 and Ithaca, New York, sliowed no response. Tho-se from New Bruns- 

 wick, New Jereey, responded by easement of leaf buds on January 30. 



Sodium bicarbonate (weak). — Storre, Connecticut : No response. 

 Lafayette, Indiana: Leaf l)uds cased January 20; leaf buds buret 

 Januar}' 31; first leaf unfolded Fcljruaiy 1; all leaves unfolded Feb- 

 iiiary 3. 



I'otassium bisulplmte (strong). — Twigs from College Park. Maiylaiid, 

 and Ithaca, New York, showed no respoasc. 



Potassium bisulphate (weak). — Storre, Connecticut: No response. 

 Lansing, .Michigan: Leaf burls buret January 20; firet leaf imfoldcd 

 February 3. Lafayette, Indiana: Leaf buds l)uret February 3; 

 first leaf unfolded February o; all leaves unfolded February S; firet 

 leaf witiiered Fel)ruary 11 ; all leaves withered February 2L 



Ilifdrochloric Acid (strong). — Twigs from College Park, Maryland. 

 Ithaca, New York. Storre. Comiecticut. showed no resfxnise iu this 

 chemical. 




90 PROCEEDINtJS OV TllK ACADKMY oi-^ L^'^''-/ 



Hydrochloric Acid (woiik). — Lansing, Michigan: Leaf hucLs cased 

 Januan' 29; loaf buds Imi-st Jannary 31. Lafayette, Indiana: Loaf 

 buds oa.sed Jannary 30; loaf buds bui-st January 31 : fii-st loaf vvitliorod 

 Fobrnar}' 7; all leaves withered February 8. 



Acetic Acid (strong). — College Park, Maryland: No response. 

 New Brunswick, New Jei"sey: Leaf buds eased February 1 ; leaf buds 

 burst February 4; first leaf unfolded February 7. 



Acetic Acid (weak). — Storre, Connecticut: No response. Lafayette, 

 Indiana: Leaf buds ea.sed February'' 1; leaf buds bui-st Februar)'- 4. 



Nitric Acid (strong). — Ston-s, Connecticut : No response. 



Chromic Acid (strong). — State College, Pennsylvania: Leaf buds 

 eased Januar\' 30; leaf buds bui"st February 3; leaf buds unfolded 

 Februaiy 4; fii-st leaf withered Februar}' 14; all leaves withoiod 

 February 24. 



Water. — Pennsylvania State College: Leaf buds eased February 1; 

 burst Februarv 3; unfolding of first leaf February 8. New Bruns- 

 wick, New Jersej"- : Leaf buds eased F'ebruary 1 ; leaf buds burst Feb- 

 ruary 4 ; first leaf unfolded Februarj' 8 ; all leaves unfolded February 

 11; first leaf withered February 14; all leaves withered Fel^ruary 18. 

 Ithaca, New York: Leaf buds eased February 3; leaf buds burst Feb- 

 ruary 4. Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased February 1 ; leaf buds 

 burst February 4 : fii-st leaf unfolded February 1 1 . Lansing, Michigan : 

 Leaf buds eased January 29; leaf buds burst February 1. Lafayette, 

 Indiana: Leaf buds burst February 6. Auburn, Alabama: Leaf buds 

 eased February 3; leaf buds burst February 4. College Park, Mary- 

 land: Leaf buds eased February 1; leaf buds burst February 3; first 

 leaf unfolded February 7; flower buds eased January 28; flower buds 

 burst Januar\' 29. 



Pear (Seckel). — 



Corrosive svhlimaie (strong). — Univereity of Permsylvania: Leaf 

 buds burst February 1 ; first leaf unfolded February 4. College Park, 

 Maryland: Leaf buds eased F'ebruary 3; leaf buds burst February 4; 

 fii^t leaf unfolded February 7; all leaves unfolded February 11; first 

 leaf withered February 14; all leaves withered February 24. Ithaca, 

 New York: Leaf buds burst February 14; first leaf unfolded February 

 18. 



Corrosive sublimate (weak). — Lafayette, Indiana: No response. 

 Lansing, Michigan: Leaf Vjuds eased January 31; leaf buds burst 

 February 1 ; first leaf unfolded February 3 ; all leaves unfolded Feb- 

 ruary 7; first leaf withered February 7; all leaves withered February 

 11. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



91 



Copper sulphate (strong). — No response shown in twigs from the 

 University of Pennsylvania; College Park. :\Iaiyland; Ithaca, New 

 York. 



Copper sulphate (weak). — Amherst. Massachusetts: Leaf buds eased 

 February 1 ; leaf buds bui-st February 4 ; all leaves withered Febrviary 

 14. 



Sodium chloride (strong). — No response in twigs from Univei-sity 

 of Pennsylvania and Ithaca, New York. College Park, Maryland: 

 Leaf buds eased February 3; leaf buds burst February 7. 



Sodium bicarbonate (weak). — Amherst, Massachusetts: Leaf buds 

 eased February 5; leaf buds burst February 7. Lafayette, Indiana: 

 No response. 



Potassium bisulphate (strong). — New Brunswick. New Joi-scy : 

 Leaf buds eased January 31; leaf buds burst February 1. 



Potassium bisulphate (weak). — Amherst, Massachusetts: Leaf buds 

 burst February 5. Lafayette, Indiana: No response. 



Acetic Acid (strong). — New Brunswick, New Jersey: Leaf buds 

 eased January 31 ; leaf buds buret February 1. 



Acetic Acid (weak). — Laasing, Miciiigan: Leaf buds bui-st January 

 30; first leaf unfolded February 1; all leaves unfolded February 4. 

 No response of twigs from Lafayette, Indiana, University of Penn- 

 sylvania, Ithaca, New York, New Bruaswick, New Jersey, in ammo- 

 nium nitrate (strong), weak ammonium nitrate, strong and weak 

 ammonium oxalate, weak and strong potassium chloride and strong 

 sodium bicarbonate. 



Water.— 



Lmver- College ,, j^. r> Lans- i Ain- 



•t f D I Hruiis- Ithaca, Geneva, • ,„ i,„^,. 



ffltyof Park, • , vr Y NY '"S' .i."^"^- 



Penna. Md. ^'^J' i '^- ^- ^- ^- Mich. Mass. 



Leaf liiids r-;i.sed Jan. 31. Feb. 4. Fel). 1 Feb. 3 



I><-af l.udsljurst Feb. 5. Feb. 3. Feb. 2S Jan. 29.1 



Fir.-st leaf unfolflrd... Feb. 3. Feb. 8. Feb. 8 Feb. I.Feb. 7. 



Allleave.s unfolded... Feb. 4 Feb. 11 Feb. S. 



First leaf withered. Fel). 11. Feb. 14 Feb. 14. 



.Vllleaveswtliered.. Fel). 14. Feb. 18 [Fel). IS. 



The twigs from Amherst, .Ma.'^s.'ichusetts, further showed the caso- 

 ment of the flower buds on January 29; burst mi .I;iiiu;ny 31 ; wnc 

 open February 4 and withered by February 5. 



Pis 0.\k {QutrcuA pfiliuitrLs). — 




*v)2 PROCEEDINGS OF THK ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



riio twigs of the pin oak from IVnnsylvaiiia State College, College 

 Park, Mar>'laiui. University of Pennsylvania, and Lansing, Michigan, 

 sli(>\ved no response in strong sodium ohloride. weak ammonium nitrate, 

 strong potassium chloride, strong sodium bicarbonate and weak nitric 

 acid, while those in weak chromic acid l)tu"st their leaf l)uds on 

 February 15. 



Wdtir. — Univereity of Peimsylvania: Fii-st leaf unfolded F'ebruary 

 24 ; flower buds burst January 27 ; flowers opened January 28. Penn- 

 sylvania State College: No response, as also the twigs from lyansing, 

 .Micjiigan. 



Tulip Poplar {Lirindcmlron tidipifera).^ — 



No response in any of the solutions, with the following few exceptions : 

 Potassium bisulphate (weak) — Leaf buds eased F'ebruary 5. Acetic 

 acid (weak) with twigs from Auburn, Alabama — Leaf buds bui"st 

 February 7. 



Water. — Lansing, Michigan: Leaf buds eased February 4; leaf buds 

 burst February 6 ; fii-st leaf unfolded February 18. Lafayette, Indiana : 

 Leaf buds eased February 7; leaf buds burst February 8. 



Carolina Poplaji {Populus monilifera) . — 



Corrosive sublimate (strong). — No response in twigs from University 

 of Pennsylvania, New Brunswdck, New Jersey, and Ithaca, New York. 



Corrosive sublimate (weak). — Lansing, Michigan: Leaf buds eased 

 February 4. Auburn, Alabama: No response. 



Copper sulphute (strong). — University of Pennsylvania: Leaf buds 

 ea-sed February 7; leaf buds burst February 14. New BruiLswick, 

 New Jersey: First leaf unfolded February 11. 



Copper sulphate (weak). — Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased F'eb- 

 ruaiy 7; leaf buds burst F'ebruary 8. Auburn, Alabama: Leaf buds 

 eased February 7; leaf buds burst February 8; first leaf unfolded 

 F'ebruary 11; all leaves unfolded February 21; first leaf withered 

 March 7; all leaves withered March 11. The twigs from Lansing, 

 ^lichigan, and Lafayette, Indiana, showed no reaction. 



Sodium chloride (strong). — University of Penasylvania : Leaf buds 

 eased F^ebruary 7; leaf buds burst February 11. Twigs from Ithaca, 

 New York, showed no response. 



Sodium chloride (weak). — Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased 

 February 7. Lansing, Michigan : Leaf buds eased February 4. 



'The lofalitips are given in tlie table at the beginning of the experimental data 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 93 



Ammonium nitrate (.strong). — Lansing, Michigan: No response. 

 Lexington, Kentucky: Leaf buds eased February 7; leaf buds burst 

 February 8. Auburn. Alabama: Leaf buds eased February 3; leaf 

 buds burst February 4; first leaf unfolded February 7; all leaves 

 unfolded February 18; first leaf withered February 15; all leaves 

 withered February 24. 



Ammonium nitrate (weak). — University of rennsylvania: Loaf 

 buds eased February 7; leaf buds burst February 15. Ithaca, New 

 York: Leaf buds eased February 4; leaf buds burst February 7. 

 Twigs from College Park, ^laryland, and Ithaca, New York, showed 

 no response. 



Ammonium oxalate (weak). — No response in twigs from Stori-s, 

 Connecticut, Lansing, Michigan, and Auburn, Alabama. 



Potassium chloride (strong). — University of Pennsylvania: Leaf 

 bu'ls eased February 4; leaf buds biu-st February 8; fii-st leaf unfolded 

 February 14; all leaves unfolded February 24; first leaf withered Fcl> 

 ruary 24. • Pennsylvania State College: Leaf buds eased February 

 .3; leaf buds burst February 5. Now Brunswick. New Jersey: No 

 response. 



Potassium chloride (weak). — Stori-s, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased 

 February 3; leaf l)uds l)ui*st FelM'uary 4; fii-st leaf unfolded Fel)ruary 

 14; all leaves unfolded February 18; fii-st leaf withered February 21 : 

 all leaves withered February 24. Lexington, Kentucky: Leaf buds 

 burst February 3. Auburn, Alal)ama: Fii^st leaf unfolded February 4: 

 first leaf withered Fol)ruary 14; all leaves withered February 15. 

 Twigs from Now Brunswick, New Jersey, Laasing, Michigan, Stori-s, 

 CojHiocticut, Lafayette, Indiana, Auburn, Alabanui, Lexington, Ken- 

 tucky, showed no response in strong sodium bicail)<)nate, weak pota'-- 

 slum bisulphate, weak hydrochloric acid. 



Sodium hicarhonatr (weak). — Stori-s, Cr)miocticut : Leaf buds bui-st 

 l-'obruary 1. Lexington, Kentucky: Loaf l)\ids eased I'Vbruary 7; 

 leaf buds burst February 7. .\uburn, Alabama: Loaf ])uds biu-st 

 {•'(•bruary llifii-st loaf unfolded I-'obruary 14: fir>t leaf witheiccl 

 March 14. 



Acetic Acid (weak). — Auburn, Alabama: Leaf buds iiui-st l'eliiuar\ 

 S; first leaf unfolded February 8. 



Nitric Acid (weak). — Storrs, Connecticut : Loaf buds (>asod I'"eliruar\ 

 7. .\uburn, .Mabama: No rospon.se. 



Chromic Acid (weak). Storrs, Connecticut: Loaf buds eased .laii- 

 uary 30; loaf buds burst .lamiary .31 ; fii-st leaf unfolded I'obruary II ; 

 all leaves unfolded February 21 ; first leaf withered I'obru.iry 2s ; 

 all leaves withered Mareh 4. .Auburn, Alabama: .\o response. 




«)4 PROCEKDINGS OK THK ACADKMV OF [1* ('!>., 



Water. — Univei'sity of Pennsylvania: Leaf huds cased IVhruary 7; 

 leaf Inuls burst Fel)niary 14; fii-st loaf uiifoklod February 28; fii'st 

 leaf withered February 24, wliile tiiis branch showed fjreen leaves on 

 March 14. Pennsylvania State Collep;e: Leaf buds bui-st February 

 14; fii'st h^af unfolded February 14. New Brunswick, New .Jei'sey: 

 Leaf buds lnu-st February 7; fii'st l(>af unfolded February S; all leaves 

 unfolded February 2S; root« appeared on March 14 and the branch 

 was still frreen. Lansing. Miehi,u;an: Leaf buds eased February 4. 

 I^xington, Kentucky: Leaf Inids eased February 6, as also those from 

 Auburn. Alabama. 



Kkd Maple {Acer rubrum). — 



The only responses obtained with branches of the red maple from 

 the localities noted in the table at the beginning of the experimental 

 data were with those from Lansing, Michigan, placed in sodium bicar- 

 bonate. The flower buds eased on January 25; flower buds burst on 

 .Januarv 27; fii'st flower withered on January 29; all the flowens with- 

 ered on January 30. 



The twigs from New Brunswick, New Jersey, in water show their 

 leaf buds bui-st on February 11; on February 15 the fii'st leaf had 

 unfolded. The leaf buds on branches from Ithaca, New \'ork, burst 

 on February 18. . 



Horse Chestnut {Msculus hippocastanum) . — 



Corrosive sublimate (weak). — Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased 

 January 31; leaf buds buret February 21. 



Copper sulphate (weak). — Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased 

 January 30 ; leaf buds burst February 4. 



Sodium chloride (strong). — University of Pennsylvania: Leaf buds 

 eased February 1; leaf buds burst February 11. Pennsylvania State 

 College: Leaf buds eased January 31; leaf buds buret February 7; 

 first leaf unfolded February 8; all leaves unfolded February 14; firet 

 leaf withered February 18; all leaves withered Fel)ruary 24. 



Sodium chloride (weak). — Storre, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased 

 January 31 ; leaf buds buret February 3; first leaf unfolded Februaiy 

 7; firet leaf withered February 14; all leaves withered February 18. 



Ammonium nitrate (weak). — Ithaca, New York: Leaf buds eased 

 February 1 ; leaf buds buret February 7. 



Ammonium oxalate (strong). — University of Pennsylvania; Leaf 

 buds eased January 31; leaf buds buret February 11. Ithaca, New 

 York: Leaf buds eased February 14. 




19(W.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 95 



Ammonium oxalate (weak). — Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased 

 January 31; leaf buds burst February 3. Lansing, Michigan: Leaf 

 buds ea.sed February 3 ; leaf buds bui-st February 4 ; fii-st leaf unfolded 

 February 7; flower buds buret February 5; first flower witliercd Feb- 

 ruary 14; all flowers withered February 18. 



Potassium chloride (strong). — University of Pennsylvania: Leaf 

 1)ik1s eased February 1 ; leaf buds burst February 8. 



Potassium chloride (weak). — Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased 

 January 29; leaf buds bui-st January 31; fii-st leaf unfolded February 

 7: all leaves unfolded February IS; all leaves withered February 21. 

 Ivansing, Michigan: Leaf buds eased February 4; leaf buds bui-st 

 Fel)ruary 7. 



Sodium bicarbonate (strong). — University of Pennsylvania: Leaf 

 buds eased February 1 ; leaf buds burst February 7. Penasylvania 

 State College : Leaf buds eased January 30 ; leaf buds burst Januar}' 31 ; 

 first leaf unfolded February 11. New Brunswick, New Jersey: Leaf 

 buds eased February 4; leaf buds burst February 7; first leaf unfolded 

 February ll;fii-st leaf withered February 14; all leaves withered 

 FeV)ruary IN. 



Sodium bicarbonate (weak). — Laasing, Michigan: Leaf buds eased 

 February 4; leaf buds burst February 7; first leaf luifolded February 

 11; all leaves withered February 18. Lexington, Kentucky: Leaf 

 buds eased February 3; leaf buds buret February 7; firet leaf unfolded 

 February 11; all leaves unfolded February 21 ; firet leaf witliered 

 February 21 ; all leaves withered February 24. 



Potassium bisxdphate (strong). — New Brunswick, New Jereey. 

 Leaf buds eased February 4; leaf buds buret February 5; firet leaf 

 unfolded February 7. Geneva, New York: Leaf buds eased January 

 -30; leaf buds buret Februaiy 3. 



Potassium bisulphalr (weak). — I>ansing, Michigan: Leaf buds ciised 

 February 3; leaf buds buret Fel)ruary 7; firet leaf unfolded February 

 11. I^xington, Kentucky: Leaf buds cased I'dnuary I : haf buds 

 l)ur>t February 7; firet leaf unfolded February 1 1 ; all lca\cs unfolded 

 February 21; all leaves withered l-ebruary 21. 



Ili/drochlorir Acid (weak). — Lansing, Michigan: Leaf buds cased 

 I'ebruary .3; leaf buds buret February 11. 



Acetic Acid (strong). — Xew linuiswick, New J(>reey: Leaf l)U(ls 

 eased February .5; leaf buds buret February S. 



Acftic Acifl (weak). — Lexington. Kentucky: Leaf buds cascil lel»- 

 riuiry 4; leaf buds buret February 7. 



H'a/rr.— 




96 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Fob., 



Uni- iPenna.i New 

 versitv State |Bruns-|ltliaca, 

 of ■ : Ca)\- wick, N. Y. 

 Penna.' lege. N. J. 



Leaf buds rased 



Ijcaf buds bvirst 



First leaf unfolded 

 All leaves unfolded 



Gen- 

 eva, 

 N.Y. 



Storre, 

 I Conn. 



Fb. l.Fb. l.lFb. l.'Ja. 31. 



iFb. 7.! iFb. 7.Fb. 4. 



'Fb. U.Fb. 4.Fb. 8.[Fb. 7. 

 Fb.21.Fl). U.Fb. 14.Fb. 11. 



First leaf ^^^thered Fb. 21. Fb. 18. Fb. 15. Fb. IS. 



.\11 leaves withered. ...iFb. 24.!Fb. 24. Fb. IS.'Fb. 24. 



Fb. 

 Fb. 

 Fb. 



Fb. 14 

 Fb. 18 



Ja. 31. 

 Fb. 4. 

 P^b. 8. 

 Fb. 14. 

 Fb. 14. 

 Fb.21. 



Lan- 

 sing, 

 Mich. 



Fb. 4 

 Fb. 8 

 Fb. 11 



Lex- 



ingloii , 



Kv. 



Fb 4. 



Fbyii. 



Fl). 14. 



The flower buds of twigs from the University of Pennsylvania and 

 Geneva, New York, in water burst on February 15 and February 5 

 respectively. 



Golden Forsythia {Forsythia viridissima). — 



Corrosive sublimate (strong). — Pennsylvania State College: Leaf 

 buds eased Jaiuiary 31; flower buds burst February 3; flowei-s opon 

 February' 7 ; first flower withered February 8. 



Corrosive sublimate (weak). — Storrs, Connecticut: No response. 

 Lexington, Kentucky: Leaf buds eased .Jaiuiary 30; flower buds cased 

 January 30; flower buds burst January 31 ; flowers opened February 1 ; 

 fii-st flower withered February 5; all flowei-s withered FelM'uary 7. 

 Xo response with twdgs from Pennsylvania State College, Lexington, 

 Kentucky, and Ithaca, New York, in weak and strong copper sulphate 

 and strong sodium chloride. 



Sodium chloride (weak). — Storrs, Connecticut: Flower buds eased 

 Januarv 27. Lansing, Michigan: Flowers opened January 2S; Hist 

 flower withered February 3. 



Amm/ynium nitrate (strong). — Lexington, Kentucky: Leaf buds 

 eased January 29; leaf l)uds burst January 31. 



Ammonium nitrate (weak). — Pennsylvania State College: Leaf l>uds 

 eased January 29; leaf buds bui-st January 31 ; first leaf unfokled 

 February 3; all leaves unfolded February 5; fii-st leaf withered Feb- 

 ruary 7; all leaves withered February 24. 



Ammonium oxalate (strong). — Pennsylvania State College: Leaf 

 buds eased February 13; leaf buds burst February 4. Branches from 

 College Park, Maryland, and Ithaca. New York, gave no reaction. 



Ammonium oxfUate (weak). — Stori-s, Connecticut: No response. 

 Lexingtf)n, Kentucky: Leaf buds eased February 3. 



Potassium chloride (strong). — University of Pennsylvania: Leaf 

 buds eased P'ebruary 1. Branches from College Park, Maiyland 

 and Ithaca, New York, gave no response. 




1909. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



9: 



Potassium chloride (weak). — Stan's. Connecticut: No response. 

 Lansins, Michigan: Leaf buds eased February 1 ; leaf buds buret 

 February 4; first leaf unfolded February-- 11; all leaves withered 

 Februaiy 18. 



Sodium bicarbonate (strong). — University of rennsylvania: Leaf 

 buds eased January' 31. Ithaca, New York: No response. 



Sodium bicarbonate (weak). — Storrs, Connecticut: No response. 

 Lexington, Kentucky: Leaf buds eased January 31. No response 

 was obtained with branches from New Brunswick, New Jersey, Ithaca, 

 New^ York, Storrs, Connecticut, Lexington, Kentucky, and Geneva, 

 New York, in weak sodium bicarbonate, strong potassium Ijisulphate, 

 weak potassium bisulphate, strong hydrochloric acid, strong and 

 weak acetic acid, strong and weak nitric acid, weak chromic acid. 



Hi/ihochloric Acid (strong). — L'nivemty of Pennsylvania: Leaf 

 buds eased February 1. 



Acetic Acid (weak). — Lansing, Michigan: Leaf liuds eased January 

 29; leaf buds burst February 8. 



Nitric Acid (weak). — Lansing, Michigan: Leaf buds eased Januaiy 

 29; leaf buds burst Januaiy 31. 



Chromic Acid (weak). — Lansing, Michigan: Leaf buds bui-st January 

 29; first leaf unfolded January 30; all leaves unfolded February IS. 



Water. — 



Uni- p New 



^«^*y state' ^T' 



of /-I 11 WICK, 



Penna.|C«»eee., x. J.' 



Lan- 

 sing, 

 Mich. 



Ithaca, Geneva, 



N. Y. 



N. Y. 



IvPaf buds eased .. 



Tyfaf hiids l)urst .Ian. 27. Feb. 



First If-af unfolflcd .. .Ian. 20. Feb. 



AllIrav<"sunrol<l<'(l.. Jan. M 



First h-af wit licrcd Ffl). 21. 



.\11 Icavrs \vitli(r<-d....!Feb. 2>>.| 



Flower liiids ca-scd....! 1 



Flower buds burst I | 



IHowers clnsed 'Jan. 31. 



Howers opened Jan. 31. 



First flower untlierediFeb. 4. 

 Ail flowers witliered.. 



Jan. SO.lJan. 28. Jan. 29.1 'Jan. 28, 



1.! 



Feb. 11. 



iJan. 29. Feb. 

 Jan. 31.1 



Feb. 24.1 Feb. 24, 



Jan. 27 ' 



I Jan. 25. Jan. 29, 



Jan. 29, 



Jan. 27. .Ian. 30. 



Jan. 28. Fei). H. 



Jan. 31. Feb. 7. 



Feb. 

 Feb. 



Le.x- 



inpton, 

 Kv. 



Feb. 24 

 Jan. 29 

 Jan. 31. 



Feb. 

 Feb. 



Jan. 29. 



Feb. 3. 



Feb. 24. 



Jan. M). 



Jan. 31. 

 Feb. 7. 

 Feb. S. 



LiNDKN (Tilin nmrricnna). — 



Cnrrosire suhlimatc (strong). — University of rciuisyjvaiiia: Leaf 

 buds eased lVbruar>' 4. 



('opprr sulphate (strong). — No respoaso in twigs from I'lii versify of 

 I'eniisyivaiiia. 




98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACAnKMV OK [Feb., 



Copper sulphate (weak). — No response exhibited by Ston-s, Counee- 

 ticut; Lansinpc. Michigan; Ivcxington, Kentucky. 



Sodium chloride (stronu;). — Ithaca, New York: No response. XTni- 

 versity of Pennsylvania: Leaf buds cased February 7; leaf buds l)urst 

 February 11. 



Sodium chloride (weak). — Stori-s, Connecticut: No response. 



Ammonium nitrate (strong). — Lansing, Michigan: Leaf buds eased 

 February 7. Lexington, Kentucky: Leaf buds eased February 18. 

 No response of twigs from Univei"sity of Pennsylvania; Ithaca, New 

 York; Stori"s, Connecticut; Lexington, Kentucky; Lansing, Michigan; 

 Lafayette, Indiana; Pennsylvania State College; New Brunswick, New 

 Jersey, and Geneva, New York, in weak ammonium nitrate, strong 

 and weak anmioniiun oxalate, strong and weak potassium chloride, 

 strong and weak sodium bicarbonate, strong potassium bisulphate, 

 strong hydrocliloric acid, w^eak acetic acid, strong and weak nitric 

 acid, strong chromic acid. 



Ammonium oxalate (weak). — Lexington, Kentucky: Leaf buds 

 eased February 7; leaf buds burst February 11. 



Potassium chloride (strong). — University of Pennsylvania: Leaf 

 buds eased February 3; leaf buds burst Februaiy 7. 



Sodium bicarbonate (weak). — Leaf buds eased February 5. 



Acetic Acid (strong). — University of Pennsylvania: Leaf buds eased 

 February 4. 



Water. — University of Pennsylvania: Leaf buds eased February 4; 

 leaf buds burst February 7; first leaf unfolded February 11; all leaves 

 unfolded February 14; first leaf withered February 14; all leaves 

 withered February 24. New Brunswick, New Jersey: Leaf buds 

 eased February 7; leaf buds burst February 11. Ithaca, New York: 

 Leaf buds burst February 7. Storrs, Connecticut: Leaf buds eased 

 February 7. Lansing, Michigan: Leaf buds eased Fe])ruary 4; leaf 

 buds burst February 6. Lexington, Kentuck)-: Leaf buds eased 

 February 4. 



YuLAN Mag.volia (Magnolia conspicua). — 



Corrosive svblimate (strong) : University of Pennsylvania : Flower 

 buds eased January 27. No response of twigs from University of 

 Pennsylvania or New Brunswick, New Jersey, in strong ammonium 

 oxalate, potassium chloride, sodium bicarbonate (strong), potassium 

 bisulphate (strong) and chromic acid (strong). 



Water. — University of Pennsj'lvania: Leaf buds burst January 31; 

 first leaf unfolded February 3; all leaves unfolded February 7; all 




1909.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 99 



leaves withered February IS; flower buds eased January 25; flowers 

 opened Januar\' 27; first flower withered January 29; all flowei*s 

 withered January' 30. New Bruns^Nick, New Jersey : Leaf buds eased 

 February 3 ; leaf buds bui"st February 5 ; all leaves withered February 

 1-4. Lafayette, Indiana: No response. 



Conclusions Based on Experiments. 



The experiments of the second year corroborate those of the fii^st 

 year in many particulars. First, it A\ill be noticed that. in every case 

 where the twigs responded, they followed the sequence already estab- 

 lished among the branches from the same locality. In the first experi- 

 ments, the phenologic sequence was estabUshed by contra'^ting the 

 development of plants out of doors with those treated experimentally 

 in the greenhouse, and it was found, as before emphasized, that the bud 

 development in chemical solutions followed the same order as out of 

 doors. The experiments of the second year go to prove the same thing. 

 However, we know that in general pear trees blossom earlier than 

 apple trees; that Fomxjlhia flowers earlier than the horse chestnut; 

 that the male catkins of the Carohna poplar appear earlier than the 

 flowers of the linden and the oak throughout the Eastern United States 

 at large. 



By correspondence with the stations from which the twigs were 

 obtained the foUowing phenologic data was secured that shows the 

 sequence of bud development:^ 



Amherst, Massachusetts. — 1, Morello Cherry; 2, Baldwin Apple; 3, 

 York Imperial Apple; 4, Bartlett Pear; 5, Seckol Pear. 



Ithaca, Neic York. — 1, Red Maple; 2, Forsythia viridissima; 3, Caro- 

 lina Poplar; 4. Kieffer Pear; 5, Seckel Pear; 6, Horse Chestnut. 



Geneva, New York. — 1, Early Crawford Peach; 2, Duchess de Angou- 

 leme Pear; 3, Maiden Blush Apple; 4, Seckel Pear; 5, York Imperial 

 Apple; 6. Baldwin Apple; 7, Red Astrachan Apple; S, Bartlett Pear; 

 9, Winesap Apple. 



Frnnsi/lvama State College (average for ten years). — 1. Foi-sythia 

 viridissima; 2, Horse Chestnut; 3, Morello Cherrj'; 4, Carolina Poplar: 



5, Tulip Poplar; 6. Kieffer Pear; 7, Pin Oak; 8. Linden. 



CoUeqr Park, Mtiri/lanfl. — 1. Forsythia viridissima: 2, Early Crawford 

 Peach; 3. Oldrnixon i'each; 4, Late Crawford Peach; 5. Kieffer Pear: 



6, Duchess de Angouleme Pear; 7. Seckel Pear; 8, Red Astrachan 



* Replies were obtained from I>afaycttc, Indiana, and New Brunswick, New 

 Jersey, otit tlu'Hi' st.itions were unable to fumi.sh any phennlo^jicdat.a. No replies 

 were oV)tained froni the Mtation.s in Connecticut, .Michigan and .\hil)aniu. 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Apple; 9, Early Hjirvest Apple; 10, Maiden Blush Apple; 11. ^ ork 

 Imperial Apple. 



Lexington, Kcntxicky. — 1, Tulip Poplar; 2, Oldinixon Free Pcaoh; 

 .'i, Carolina Poplar; 4, Horse Chestnut; 5, Linden. 



This general sequential development is preserved in the experimental 

 liquids. The same phenomenon with reference to the action of poisons 

 was emphasized in the experiments of the second year. As the data 

 will show, buds were eased and many burst by the stimulating action 

 of the various chemicals. In some instances the leaves unfolded, 

 flower buds opened and such leaves and flowers reached their normal 

 size. This was notably the case with flowers of Forsythia viridis- 

 sima (Pena^ylvania State College) in strong corrosive sublimate solu- 

 tion, with the leaves of the Seckel pear (College Park, Maryland) 

 in the same solution, with the leaves and flowers of the Kieffer pear 

 (from Michigan) in the weak corrosive sublimate, vnih. the leaves of 

 Populus monilifera (Auburn, Alabama) in weak copper sulj)hate 

 solution, with the Bartlett pear flowers (Amherst, Massachusetts) 

 in weak copper sulphate, with the York Imperial apple (Amherst, 

 Mas.'^achusetts) in weak sodium chloride, with the horse chestnut 

 ( Pennsylvania State College) leaves in strong sodium chloride, with the 

 York Imperial apple (Amherst, Massachusetts) leaves in weak sodium 

 chloride, with the red maple (Lansing, Michigan) flowers in weak 

 sodium chloride, with the Forsythia (Lexington, Kentucky) flowers 

 in strong ammonium nitrate, with the Populus monilifera (Auburn, 

 Alabama) leaves in the same solution. In the weak ammonium 

 nitrate solution, the leaves of the Forsythia twigs from Pennsylvania 

 State College reached full size, as did those of Populus monilifera from 

 Philadelphia in strong potassium chloride and the flowers of the Bart- 

 lett pear (Lansing, Michigan) in weak potassium chloride. The flowers 

 of Clapp Favorite and Kieff'er pears opened when the t\\igs were placed 

 in weak potassium bisulphate, as also the leaves of the Kieffer pear 

 twi^ from Lafayette, Indiana. In weak acetic acid solution, the 

 leaves of the Red Astrachan apple (Auburn, Alabama) opened fully 

 wide. The flowers of the Maiden Blush (College Park, ]\Iaryland) 

 opened when the twigs were placed in the weak chromic acid solution. 

 But eventually, with but few exccptioas, all of the twigs succumbed, 

 many after the first green leaf had been formed. The strong solutions 

 of copper sulphate, potassium bisulphate, hydrochloric and nitric acids 

 seemed to be arrestive and deadly, because very few of the twigs 

 even responded when placed in these solutions. 

 These results, it seems to the writer, are corroborative of the principle 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



that response is not arrested until the poison has actually penetrated 

 and killed the living cells, thus putting a stop to the suctional activity 

 and respoasive power of the liN-ing cells. The poisons enumerated, 

 being perhaps more easily conducted, act at once in killing the cells, 

 which A\-ith other poisons are stimulated long before they are eventually 

 killed. Bose (loc. at., 383) has demonstrated this differential activity 

 of poisonous solutions in a number of his experiments. Among various 

 solutions of salt, some are physiologically neutral in their effects; of 

 these potassium nitrate may be taken as an example. Others, again, 

 like a strong solution of sodium cliloride, act as excitatory agents. 

 The application of this last reagent is known to initiate rhythmic 

 excitation in animal tissues. Similar effects have been shown to be 

 brought about by this reagent in the case of Biophytum and Dcsmo- 

 dium. Thus in a strong solution of potassium nitrate we have a 

 reagent whose physiologic action is more or lass neutral, while its 

 osmotic action is pronounced, and in a strong solution of common salt 

 we have an agent which is both excitatory and osmotic at the same 

 time. If, then, we apply K NO^ solution to the base of a cut stem, 

 placed in the shosjiungraph (Bose's apparatus), water will be osmotic- 

 ally withdrawn from the plant in opposition to normal suction, and 

 the normal suctional rate \\\\\ be somewhat reduced. On the appli- 

 cation of copper sulphate, the suctional movement, Bose found, was 

 quickly arrested, and this was followed almost immediately by a slight 

 movement in the negative direction; showing that by some spasmodic 

 contraction water was expelled from the tissue. This phase was 

 s\icceeded by an almost complete arrest of suction, there being now 

 only the feeblest asceasional movement. Within a short period after 

 this, on wa.'^hing off the poisonous reagent, it was found that the arrest 

 had been temp(»rary only, suction l)eing renewed at the rate of eleven 

 instead of the normal fifteen cubic nun. jxt minute. The poison was 

 applied once more and allowed to act for tliirly-six iioui-s. The arrest 

 was then f(jund to be })ermanent — that is to say, the substitution of 

 fresh water induced no revival of response, the j)]ant being killed 

 throughout. It is interesting to note that the twigs experimented 

 with at the University of Pennsylvania responded after a mvicii longer 

 time interval than thirty-six hours, as noted in the experimental data 

 above. 



It will be noted also that the sequence between northern and south- 

 ern grown twigs was preserved in the experimental liquids. If the 

 results obtained in the chemical solutions are contrasted with those 

 in the water, it will be foimd that the buds on branches obtained from 




102 PROCKEDIXGS OF THK ACADKNn <>1' fl't'b., 



iKirthern localities responcii'd much nioic (iiiickly ihan did those from 

 southern localities. Thus in water the leaf buds of the Red Astrachan 

 apple from Stori-s. Connecticut, huivt on February 4; those from 

 Lansinjr, Michifj;an, on February 0, and those from Auburn, Alabuma. 

 on Fel)ruary 11 — a difference of a week between the more northern 

 and the more southern localities. The leaf buds of the ^'ork Inijierial 

 a|)ple burst in water on Januaiy 31 from Geneva, New York, -^ Feltruary 

 3 from ,'Vmhei'st, Massachusetts; February 4 from Storrs, Connecticut; 

 February 11 from College Park, Maryland, antl February 15 from 

 Aul)urn, Alal)ama. A reference to the experimental data will show 

 practically the same sequence throughout, the buds on northern grown 

 twigs always opening before those on southern grown ones. The 

 sequence of the bud development in the chemical solutions proceeded 

 as above indicated for the twigs in water. The buds on twigs of the 

 same species, where comparison is possible, from northern localities 

 opened first in the same chemical and those of southern localities 

 followed as indicated below: 



Weak Corrosive sublimate (Kieffer Pear). — 



Storrs, Conn. Lafayette, Ind. 



Leaf buds eased February 4. January 31. 



Leaf buds burst February 7. February 3. 



Weak Copper sulphate (^laiden Blush Apple). — 



Lansing, Mich. Auburn, Ala. 



Leaf buds eased February 7. 



Leaf buds burst February 1. February 8. 



Weak Sodium chloride (York Imperial Apple). — 



Amherst, Mass. Storrs, Conn. 



Leaf buds eased .' January 31. February 4. 



Leaf buds burst February 4. February 5. 



First leaf unfolded February 5. February 7. 



Strong Ammonium nitrate (Kieffer Pear). — 



Lafayette, Ind. Auburn, Ala. 



Leaf buds eased January 30. January 31. 



Leaf buds burst January 31. February 4. 



First leaf unfolded February 4. February 7. 



* Geneva, New York, although geographically south of Amherst, Massachu- 

 8ett.s, is probably climaticalh* more nortliem. 




1909.] XATUR.U. SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



Weak Potassium chloride (York Imperial Apple). — 



Storrs, Conn. Auburn, Ala. 



Leaf buds eased February 1. February 14. 



Leaf buds burst February 3. February 15. 



Strong Sodium bicarbonate {Msculus hippoca^tamim). — 



University of Penna. State New Bruns- 

 Pennsylvania. College. \nck, N.J. 



Leaf buds eased February 1. January 30. Februaiy4. 



Leaf buds burst February?. Januar}^ 31. February 7. 



Fii-st leaf unfolded Februar}^ 11. February 11. 



Weak Sodium bicarbonate (Red Astrachan Apple). — 



Storrs, Conn. Auburn, Ala. 



Leaf buds eased February 1. 



Leaf buds burst February 7. 



Fii-st leaf unfolded February 4. February 21. 



(Clapp Favorite Pear). — 



Storrs, Conn. Lansing, Mich. 



Leaf buds eased January 31. 



T^eaf buds burst February 3. February 1. 



(Populv^ monUifera). — 



Storrs, Conn. Lexington, Ky. Auburn, Ala. 



Leaf buds eased February' 7. 



Leaf buds burst Februar}^ 1. February 7. February 14. 



First leaf unfolded February 14. 



{Mscvlus hippocastanum) . — 



Lansing, Mich. Lexington, Ky. 



Leaf l)uds eased February 4. February 3. 



Loaf buds burst Febniary 7. February 7. 



First leaf unfolded February 11. February 11. 



In this case the buds developed coincidently from widely separated 

 localities upon a European forest tree. Is this an evidence that 

 Msculus hippocastanum is not acclimated, or an evidence that as a 

 more plastic species that it is more thorouglily so. Yet in the next 

 experiment there is a difference. 



Strong Potassium bisulphale {Msculus hippocastanum). — 



Geneva, N. V. New Brunswick, N.J. 

 I^af buds eased January 30. February 4. 



Leaf buds bvu-st F('])ruarA' 3. Februarys. 




'04 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Walk Potassium bisulphatc (Clapp Favorite Poar).- 



Lansing, Mich. 



Leaf huQh. ea:?ed Januaiy 30. 



Leaf buds burst 



Fii-st leaf unfolded February 3. 



(KiefTer Pear). — 



Lafayette, Iiid. 



Leaf buds eased February 8. 



Leaf buds bui-st 



Fii-st leaf unfolded February 5. 



Feb. 



Stoi'rs, C-onii. 

 January .'Jil. 

 February 1. 

 February 4. 



Lansing, Mich. 



January 2! I. 

 February 3. 



Le.xin^toii. Ky. 

 February 4. 

 February 7. 

 Februar\' 1 1 . 



{JEsculus hippocastanum). — 



Lansing, Mich. 



Leaf buds eased February 3. 



Leaf buds bui"st February 7 . 



Fii-st leaf unfolded February IL 



The same coincidence of dates \\all be noticed witli this tree as 

 noted above. The response is more rapid with the more northern 

 tree than ^\ith the more southern, but the subsequent development 

 runs parallel as to the dates at wliich the variotis manifestations of 

 development occur. 



Weak Hydrochloric Acid (KjefTer Pear).— 



Lansing, Mich. 



Leaf buds eased January 29, 



Leaf buds burst Januar}^ 3L 



Strong Acetic Acid (^scidus hippocastanum). — 



University of 

 Pennsylvania.' 



Leaf buds eased January 3L 



Leaf buds bui-st February 7. 



Weak Acetic Add (Red Astrachan Apple).— 



Storrs, Conn. 



Leaf buds eased 



Leaf buds burst February 3. 



First leaf unfolded February 4. 



Weak Nitric Acid (Red Astrachan Apple). — 



Storrs, Conn. 



Leaf buds eased February 4. 



Leaf buds burst February 5. 



Lafayette, Ind. 

 January 30. 

 Januarv 31 . 



New Brunswick, 



N. J. 



February 5. 



February 8. 



Auburn, Ala. 

 February 5. 

 Februaiy 7. 

 February 14. 



Auburn, Ala. 

 February 7. 

 February 11. 




1909. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 105 



Weak Chromic Acid. — 



Lansing, Mich. Auburn, Ala." 



Leaf buds eased February 4. 



Leaf buds burst February 8. February 11. 



Fi i-st leaf unfolded February 11. February 14. 



The fact that there is such a difference between the time when the 

 leaf and flower buds of the same variety and species of fruit and forest 

 trees open is an index of the extent of their accHmatization. The 

 native trees have, since their migration from the original forest centre, 

 been acclimated to their new localities of growth, while the introduced 

 fruit trees since their introduction to America have become similarly 

 ameliorated to the American chmate, so that they react in nature and 

 in the experimental culture solutions exactly as do the native plants. 



Br;AKixG OF Expekimk.ntal Data on thi: Advent of Spring. 



The climatic differences between the north and the south, representing 

 the amount of acclimatization which each species has had to adopt, 

 may be demonstrated by a study of the advent of spring. The tem- 

 perature of 42.8° F. (6° C.) is that at which the protoplasmic contents 

 of the ordinary' plant find the Hmits of their activity. The advent of 

 spring may be considered as taking place at the approach of an isotherm 

 one degi-ee higher, or 43.8° F. This isotherm, progressing steadily in 



Map iihistrafiiiK tlic aclvunco of tlu- isotlicnii of spring (j:i.H° F.), an wrll ius tlie 



n'gioii.s ( ) aiul stations (%) from wliich the cxprriinciital 



twi^ were ohUiiiH-)!. 



• Started two days later. 




!()() PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [l'('l).» 



its advance acrass the United States, is illustrated in the iicconipany- 

 ing map Avhich was constructed from tli(> recorded mean temperatures 

 for 15 yeai-s from 1S70-1SS5.' This line may he regarded as the edge 

 of spring. In the Gulf States there is no true advent of spring. On 

 February 1 the isotherm in question crosses the United States from 

 the vicinity of Cajie Ilatteras on the east to the north of K\ Taso, then 

 turns northwestward and reaches the Pacific coast some distance north 

 of San Francisco. The advance on the fii-st of successive months is 

 illustrated b}"^ the map. 



Spring ma}' be said to begin in our most northern locality, Lansing, 

 Michigan, about May 1. Auburn, Alabama, lies Ijelow the isotherm of 

 February 1. We therefore have a difference of three months in the 

 awakenment of vegetation under the influence of the advent of spring 

 conditions. Yet in our e.\i)t'rimental cultures no such great discre])- 

 ancy existed, because the heat of the greenhouse is more uniform 

 (not so fluctuating), and yet, notwthstanding the fact that the interval 

 between the successive events is shortened, nevertheless the same 

 phenologic sequence is maintained as described alcove. The difference 

 of three months in the advent of spring between the most northern 

 and the most southern of our localities indicates the real amount of 

 acclimatization of the same species and race growing in the different 

 places from wliich the experimental material was obtained. That is, 

 the growing season of trees and shrubs is very much abbreviated com- 

 pared with the growing season in more southern situations. Three 

 months difference is a very appreciable amount between the northern 

 and southern States, and the fact that such fruit trees as the Maiden 

 Blush apple and the Kieffer pear can ])e grown in Michigan and Ala- 

 bama is noteworthy as an instance of acclimatization of the most pro- 

 nounced type. In Alabama the growing season is about nine months 

 long, from February 1 to November 1. .In Michigan the growing season 

 begins May 1 and is completed by the beginning of October, a length 

 of about five and a half months. The fact that many of the fruit 

 trees mentioned above did not take kindly to the American climate, 

 and that they afterwards became adapted to its wide range of climatic 

 conditions is proof of their acclimatization. Yet some doubt that 

 acchmatization occurs. A w-riter in Forest Leaves (XI : 108) says 

 that "Trees are fixed, almost inflexible, in their habits. For centuries, 

 indeed as long as we have record, each species has kept in its beaten 

 ways, insisting on the same average of temperature and refusing to 



'Harrington, Mark W.: The Advent of Spring. Harper's Magazine, May, 

 1894. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



grow where x\ur> could not be, seeking and occupying certain kinds of 

 soil and demanding certain amounts of moisture and avoiding situa- 

 tions where these were wanting." In connection with the experiments 

 wliich have preceded, some experimental data from other sources should 

 be given in order to prove that organisms can be acclimated, that is 

 can be inured or habituated to conditioas at first injurious to them. 

 A reference to the short bibliography of acclimatization at the end of 

 tliis paper will enable the investigator to obtain the additional evidence 

 of acclimatization which it is not possible to review. The experimental 

 data for animals and plants is here given. 



General Experimental Work on Acclimatization. 



Among invertebrates Loe^^'* has found in Owen's Lake, Cahfornia, 

 the alkaline watera of which contain among other tilings 2.o5o of NajCOg, 

 numeroiLS hving infusoria, Copepoda, larvae of Ephydra and molds. 

 Again the vinegar eel, Rhabditis acdi, lives in a 4% solution of acetic 

 acid, although this strength is usually fatal: e. g., a 0.23% solution of 

 acetic acid kills the tentacles of JJrosera, according to Darwin. Beu- 

 dant accustomed fresh-water animals to salt water. He used Lymnca, 

 l^hi/sa, Planorbis, Ancyclus, Paludina and some otiier fresh-water 

 moUusks. He began in April by putting these organisms into a 1% 

 XaCl solution, and, continuing to add salt slowly, b}' September many 

 of these withstood a 4*}^ solution, a solution which kills animals sud- 

 denly subjected to it. He performed tlie reverse experiment upon 

 marine mollusca, bringing them to live in fresh water b}^ gradually 

 diluting the medium. According to MacDougal," Lopriori found that 

 wliile the streaming movements of protoplasm were inhibited by 

 exposure to an atmosphere of one part oxygen and four |)arts carbon 

 dioxide, yet if the plant were fii-st exposed to a mixture of 25 parts 

 of oxygen and 75 of carbon dioxide for a time, it might then be brought 

 successively into atmospheres containing 80, 85, 90, 95 and even 100 

 parts of the gas without inunediate injury. Organisms can l)e accli- 

 matized to extreme temperatures. Davenport (loc.ciL, 2V.)) cites illus- 

 trations of both. l"('w active organisms can withstand a temperature 

 of over 45** C, and for wjiole groups like (xelenterata, m.-ninr mollusca, 

 Crustacea arul fishes 10'^ is a point of death. There are phmt and ani- 

 mal organisms that carry on their life pmcesses in hot springs. Simpk' 

 plants like Chroococcus, Nostor, Anaboena, Lcptothrix, Oscillaria, etc., 



" i '.-ix I'nport , ( '. H.: K.riMrimrulnl \fnrpholngti, p. 

 • Tcrtltnok nf I'lnnt I'hi/siiiloiji/. 'u . 




lOS PROCEEDINGS OF THIC ACADEMY OK [l'<'l)r 



exist in sprinp^ where the teiupcratuiv iaii«ic>s from 4o°to 93° C. Roti- 

 fers and Anguilhilidiv were foiuul in the Carlsbad Springs of Bohemia 

 at a temperature of 44° to 54°; ('j/pris halncaria occurred in water 45° 

 to 50.5° and Stratiomijs larva at (ji)° in a hot spring in Colorado. Hut 

 the experimentvS of Dallinger are remarkable illustrations of gradual 

 acclimatization. He kept Flagellata in a warm oven for man)' months, 

 licginning witii a temperature of 15.6° C. he employed the first four 

 months in raising the temperature 5.5°; this, however, was not neces- 

 sary, since the rise to 21° can be made rapidly, but for success in higher 

 temperatures he found it best to proceed slowly from the beginning. 

 When the temperatures had been raised to 23° the organisms began 

 ilrying, but soon ceased, and after two months the temperature was 

 raised iialf a degree more and eventually to 25.5°. Here the organisms 

 began to succumb again, but finally after several years of treatment 

 Dallinger succeeded in rearing the organisms in a temperature of 70° C. 

 The same acclimatization to cold may be shown. Thus the swarm 

 spores of a marine alga were liberated when the temperature of the 

 water was between 1.5° and 1.8° C. 



We can exemphfy this kind of acclimatization in the higher j^lants. 

 Our treatment of the twigs from various localities demonstrates that 

 this kind of acclimatization was operative in the past with each tree 

 species. Sweet peas raised in Calcutta from seed imported from Eng- 

 land rarely blossom and never yield seed; plants from French seed 

 flower better, but are still sterile; but those raised from Darjeeling 

 seed (originally imported from England) both flower and seed profusely, 

 according to Wallace." Speaking of the introduction of the Sea Island 

 cotton into the United States, Wight" says that {Gossypium barbadense 

 and G. vilijolium) they were with much difficulty introduced into 

 North America owing to the shortness of the summer season. The 

 former (Sea Island), indeed, could not be established until a fortunate 

 occurrence of a very mild winter jjcrmitted the roots to live through it 

 and produce an early crop of fresh shoots in the spring. These bore 

 and ripened, the seed of which was foimd sufficiently hardy to resist 

 the cold of spring and matured a crop of excellent cotton in the course 

 of the succeeding autumn. Indian corn develops local varieties with 

 extreme readiness, but they seldom succeed when transferred even short 

 distances, at least until time enough for acclimatization has elapsed. 

 E. Davenport sent a standard white Illinois corn, ripening in about 



^'' Encijclopedia Brilannica, article "Acclimatization." 



" Watt, Sir George: The Wild and Cultivated Cotton Plants of the World, 1907, 

 p. 272. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 109 



120 days and capable of maximum yields (75 bushels per acre), 

 to be grown in Michigan, Wisconsin, Maine and Mississippi. In 

 Maine it failed to ripen, but at all other points it ripened in about 

 100 days, producing small, inferior ears. That it should hurry 

 through its period of gi'owth at the north was not surprising, but that 

 it should do so in the south is unaccountable.*' The season of maize 

 varies from six months in the elevated plains of Santa F6 in South 

 America to four months in the middle United States and two and one- 

 half months in the rainy lake district northwest of Lake Superior.*^ 

 Peach trees from central Georgia blossom ten to twelve days later in 

 ^'irginia and Mar>-land than do those of the same variety from New 

 Jersey or New York. As peach trees are propagated by buds we may 

 regard the Georgia and New Jei"sey trees, being of the same variety, as 

 parts of the same individual. The foregoing citations indicate that 

 acclimatization does occur, and that in the case of the experimental 

 twigs the differences in the time of the bud development illustrates 

 that acclimatization has taken place to the extent of a variation in 

 habit as to their seasonal development, emphasized in the acclimatiza- 

 tion of the cotton, corn and peach previously described. 



The response of the buds in the chemical solutions was an immediate 

 one, and at a season of the year when all of the twigs from widely sepa- 

 rated statioas (north and south) were in a dormant condition. The 

 advantage of these experiments in demonstrating the above conclusions 

 is marked over the growth of such trees in the forest, or in the orchard, 

 for the reason that as to temperature all of the twigs were exposed 

 e((ually to the same amount, and those placed in the pure water were 

 under practically the same conditions, while the chemical solutions 

 provided enough of different conditions under experimental control 

 which would produce alteratioas in the time and method of response, 

 if such could be produced l)y e.xperimental means. The results have 

 already been sunuuarized. 



liin!.i()(;i(Ai'in . 



Jivii.KV, L. II.: Survival of tlic I'lilikc. l.SiK) : :j_'0-:i:«. Accliiiiati/.iiliun ; 



DfM-s it Ocfur? 

 lio.sE, Jaoadis C'Hi'NDEn: Plant K«'spnns<' lus a .Mi-ans of Phvsinlogiral Invcsti- 



patioii. HKHi: inw. :is2-:i.s:?. :iS(>-.^S7. 

 <'.\NNo\. \V. .\.: .ArHimatization f)f Plants. Tii.' Pl.itil World. XI: WA 111. 



.May, inOH. 

 C.MtMKH, .M. .\.: M/'inoiri- sur r.Vicliiiiatfinctit dcs Races f-n .Viiir'Tiquc. Pari^ 



1867, pp. 55. 



" Da von port, E.: Prinrivirs i>f hrrnlitu/, l'.H)7, p. 'J'SJ. 

 " liailcy, I.. 11.: Surrivul of Ihr i'nllkc,' iS'.Xi, p. :i2<». 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF Tin: ACADKMY OF [I" *'•'•, 



Dahwin, C'nAiti.Ks: Animals ami Plants under Donicstii-ation. 



Oripin of Spi-nes. 1859: 112. 



Davenport, Chahles H.: Exporiincntal Morpliolopv. 1.S97: 27, 85, 249. 

 Daventoht. Eigen-e: Principlos ot Hm>dins. 1907 f 222, 255. 257, 200, 308-:ilC.. 

 Forest Leaves: Troos ("annot 1h> AccliMiatizcd. XI: 108. Fchniary, 19()S. 

 Haushiierger, Jomx W.: \t'gotali()n of the Vfllowstone Hot Springs. .Vnit-ri- 



ran Journal of Phannacv. LXIX: 625. 

 Harrington, Mark W.: The .\dvont of Spring. Harper's Monthly Magazine. 



Mav, 1894. p. 874. 

 MacDoig.vl, I). T.: Textbook of Plant Physiology. 1901: 20, 50, 92. 

 Influence of Altitude and Climatic Factors upon Vegeta(ii)n: .Vcclimatizatiun 



5th Year Book Carnegie Institution of Washington. 1907: 121. 

 Morgan. Thomas H.: Evolution and Adaptation. 1903: 319. 

 Pfeffer, W.: Pdanzenphvsiologic, 1S97-1904. Accomodation Begrenzthiit 



derselben, II: 81, 90," 24G; an Concentrationen, I: 415; II: 128, 137; an 



Gifte, II: 243, 247, 337; an Sauerstoflpressung, I: 54S, 551; II: 131; an 



Temperatur, II: 91, 292, 302; an Temperatur, Gifte, Concentrationen ist 



nicht erblich, II: 243, 337. 

 ScHiMPER, A. F. W.: Pflanzengeographie auf physiologischer Grundlage, 1898: 



55-58, with bibliography on page 60. 

 Vernon, H. M.: A'ariation in Animals and Plants. 1903: 378. 

 Wallace, Alfred R.: Article Acclimatization in Encvclopedia Britannica. 



I (1878): 84-90. 

 W.\tt, Sir George: The Wild and Cultivated Cotton Plants of the AVorld. 



1907: 272, 328. 

 Woodruff, Major Charles E.: The Effects of Tropical Light on White Meii. 



1905: 321. 

 Woods, A. F.: Plant Pathology. Science, New Ser., XXM: 541-543. Oct. 



25, 1907. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. HI 



AN ORTHOPTEROLOGICAL RECONNOISSANCE OF THE SOUTHWESTERN 

 UNITED STATES. PART II: NEW MEXICO AND WESTERN TEXAS. 



BY JAMES A. G. REHX and MORGAN HEH.VRD. 



The first ]iortion of the result.s of this examination of the south- 

 western United States, treating of Arizona material, has ah-eady been 

 publislied in these Proceedings.^ 



Seven ratlier distinct regions were examined in the area covered l»y 

 this paper, notes on the locahties being given below. In addition a 

 number of other localities are represented in the series by lots of from 

 one to six species. A small lot of material from Fort Wingate, McKin- 

 ley County, New ^Mexico, collected by Mr. John Woodgatc and now the 

 property of the Academy, has also been examined in this connection. 



Mr. Otho PoUng, of Quincy. Illinois, assisted in collecting some of 

 the material secured at Deming, while all taken at Albuqvierque and 

 Aden was collected by the junior author. 



The ninnber of species examined and treated in this report is one 

 lumdred and fifteen, of which six prove to l^e new, while the specimens 

 nimiber one thousand, three hundred and ninety-five. 



The types of all the new foniis are in the Hebard Collection. 



El Paso awl Franklin Mountauis, El Paso Coiintfi, Texas. Alti- 

 tudes, 3,700 to about 5,600 feet. July 9 to 11 and 17, 1907. 



The vicinity of El Paso may be divided into several regions: first, 

 the low l)()ttom-land along the river, this section being threaded with 

 acequias and a considerable portion is or has been under cultivation ; 

 second, a region of low sand dunes slightly northeast of the city, 

 covered with a scattering growtii of mesquite; third, a fairly extensive 

 mesa bordering the Franklin Mountains, very broken and rugged on 

 its eroded marginal slopes where is expased a sort of caliche as tiie ba^is 

 of the mesa, and (luite level on the summit, all covered more or less 

 completely with rather uniformly-sized greasewood {Covillea tri/lerUata) 

 bushes, minded on the rugged base slopes with mesquite (Prnsopis 

 velutina) and f)cc:usionally tornillo or screw bean {Pmsopis ndoratn); 

 fourth, the Franklin Moiuitaias, rising from the mesa to an elevation 



' I'uH-. Acad. Sat. Set. Phila., 1908, pp. 365-402. 




1 12 PROCEEDINGS OF TlIK ACADKMY OF [l'''''i 



of from o.OOO to 7.000 foot. 'V\w latter were ascended to the summit 

 of the South Peak, altitude about 5,600 feet, and found to ho 

 desert to that heipjht. The slopes of this ranp;e are covered more or 

 less uniformly on the lower section with greasewood, while tlie higher 

 portions are sparsely covered with aloes and other desert species. They 

 were very productive of Orthoptera, Sifrbula fuscovitlato, Bontcllix 

 (irgcntatus, Didplnrnmcra covillctv. Pseudnsermj/lc tenuis, Mrrmiria 

 texana, Arphia teporota and othei"s being taken. 



On the mesa and at tiie foot of the same the greasewood yielded, 

 among othei"s, Diapheroitiera covillecc, Bootcltix anjcnlatus, Mclanoplus 

 howditchi, M. herhaceus, Ateloplus macroscelus and Litaneutria skinncri, 

 while Anconia ccendeipennia, Ileliastus aridiis, Schistocercn raga. 

 Trimcrotropis texana, Psoloessa texana, Derotmema laiicinctum and 

 Phriinotettix robustvs were found on and about the mesa. In the sand- 

 hill region the character of the Orthoptera was found to be much hke 

 that of the mesa, but in the clumps of mesquite Melanophis glaucipes, 

 M. herbaceus, ^Eolophis elegans, and Schistocerca shoshone were foimd. 



The low bottom-land is covered in many places with tanglas of screw 

 bean {Prosopis odorata), with tall rank weeds in others, and areas 

 of hardened bare adobe are also to be found. In the tornillo tangles 

 Melanoplus glaucipes, Moloplus elegans, Mermiria bivittata and Dia- 

 pheromera mesillana were found, while the areas of high weeds har- 

 Ijored Moloplus elegans, Melanoplus herbaceus, M. aridus, M. atlanis, 

 Stagmomantis sp., and Diapheromera persimilis. On the bare spots 

 Paropomala i^irgata. Derotmema laiicinctum, Trimcrotropis ruhripes 

 and Hippiscus corallipes were found. 



Alamogordo and Dry Cangon, Sacramento Mountains, Otero Countg, 

 New Mexico. Altitude, 4,300 to 5,500 feet. July 12 and 13, 1907. 



The conditions in the vicinity of Alamogordo have already been 

 treated by Stone and Rehn- and Ruthven.^ Our collecting was re- 

 stricted to the edge of the mesquite area, on the eastern margin of 

 which the town is situated, and the greasewood slopes leading to Dry 

 Canyon. The mesquite section was unproductive, while in the gi'ease- 

 wood belt Bootettix argentatus, Ectatoderus borealis, Gryllus alogus and 

 Psoloessa texana were secured, but most of them not in such numbers as 

 at El Paso. In the broken country at the fii^st foothills and in the 

 arroyos at the canyon mouth collecting was more productive, Para- 

 bacUlus coloradus, Dichopetala brcvihastata and Yersinia solitaria 



^Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1903, p. 16. 



'Bu//. Amer. Mus. Xrit. Hist.. XXIII, pp. K)2 190. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



being taken and a greater variety of species noticed, ^^'ork was 

 continued up the south arm of Dr}^ Canyon to the broader valley- 

 hke portion of the canyon above the spring. Here pinon {Pinvs 

 edidis or cembroides) and juniper {Juniperus pachyphloca) appeared, 

 giving the canyon bottom a park-Uke appearance quite different from 

 the sotol {Dasylirioi}) and ocotillo {Fouquieria spleyidens) covered 

 slopes at the can3'on''s mouth. In this region, which is at about 5,500 

 feet elevation, one Amblycorypha hiiasteca was beaten from a small 

 green tree, while on the barer slopes at the same elevation several 

 interesting species, such as Yersinia, solitaria, Syrbula fuscointtata, 

 Amphitornus omatus and Melanoplus aridus, were taken. 



At night in Alamogordo several species of Orthoptera, such as 

 Derotmemo laticindum, T rimer otropis texana and Gryllus, came to the 

 street lamps, while Coleoptera and Lepidoptera were attracted in the 

 greatest mnnbers. Certain species of beetles, as Cicindela lemniscata 

 and Tetracha Carolina, fairly swarmed, and the great moth Marumba 

 occidentalis was by no means uncommon. 



Clondcroft, Sacramento Mountains, Otero County, New Mexico. 

 Ahitude. 8,600 to 8,700 feet. July 14 to 16, 1907. 



This charming spot, situated on the summit of the Sacramento range, 

 does not appear to be on the mountain top except at certain points 

 of lookout, where one looks down on the long slopes and deep canj^ons 

 of the mountains which sink into the desert plain of the Otero basin 

 or Hueco bolson as it is variously called. The Cloudcroft region is one 

 of low hills with beautiful open vales between them. The hills and 

 some of the level areas are covered w'ith magnificent forests, chiefly 

 of Douglas fir (Pseudotsuga mucronata), western yellow pine {Pinus 

 ponderosa) and in some places aspen (Popidus Iremidoides). The vales, 

 or "canyons" as they are termed by courtesy, are usualh' carpeted 

 with numerous grasses and in many ])laces are veritable flower beds. 

 Many of the forest trees are of immense size, and the rich greens of the 

 region are in striking contrast to the colors of the desert but ten miles 

 away, though some thousands of feet below. In a grassy field, bounded 

 on one side by a stand of deciduous saplings and on the other by huge 

 firs, we foimd Gomphoccrus clavatus, Melanoplus calidvs and .1/. atlanis 

 plentiful. One specimen of Eritellix variabilis wa.s also taken in this 

 jficatidu. Among the fii-s on the border of this field a single Chloealtis 

 ahdomitwlis was heard stridulating among some low herhnf::e near a 

 stump and was raptured. The very noisy Cirroicttix utididatus was 

 l)lentiful in open spots in the forest, along the roads and on l)are 

 hunbered .slopes. One Melanoplus altitudinum was found in (lamp 

 8 



I 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THK ACADEMY OF [I'eb., 



grasses at the junction of two of the glades, and another specimen was 

 taken on a steep hillside in open conifer forest. In the latter situa- 

 tion Acrijdium a'assum was also taken. Search in many pine and fir 

 logs disclosed only a few Ceuthophilus, valgus and unijormis being taken. 



The nights were very chilly and no katydids were heard. The 

 effect of the cool evenings was apparent in the scarcity of Mclanophis 

 calidiis and Gomphocerus clavatus before ten in the mornings, both 

 species occurring in numbers in the afternoon. 



Aden, Donna Ana County, New Mexico. Altitude, 4,382 to 5,000 

 feet. July 21, 1907. 



The plain about this station differe from the greater part of the 

 southern New ]\Iexican desert plains in that it is covered in most 

 places by low grasses, giving it some sUght resemblance to the Great 

 Plains. Over this plain small mesquite bushes are scattered at greater 

 distances than usual. Near the railroad track the grasses grow in 

 great profusion, reacliing in many places a height of nearly a foot. 

 In this location Orthoptera were found in very great numbers, among 

 the series taken being several plains species not found on the surround- 

 ing deserts. 



About a quarter of a mile from the station a rounded hill rises directly 

 from the prairie. This hill is ver}^ rocky and covered by a scattered 

 growth of greasewood {Covillea tridentata), and in spite of its elevation 

 of not more than 600 feet above the surrounding plain several 

 mountain-lo\4ng species, such SLsEritettix variabilis smd Arphia teporata, 

 were found on it. It is interesting to note that such forms of Orthop- 

 tera were to be found on this solitary little knob, in spite of its small 

 size, low altitude and the fact that it is several miles distant from 

 the nearest hills. 



Deming, Luna County, New Mexico. Altitude about 4,350 feet. 

 JiUy 18-21, 1907. 



About the town of Deming stretches a typical desert plain, covered 

 with groves of medium-sized m&squite {Prosopis velutina) and large 

 areas of rabbit-weed (Isocoma heterophylla) , broken on the north by 

 the bed of the Mimbres River. On both sides of this stream-bed are 

 extensive flats of white sand closely dotted with tall yuccas. These 

 flats average about half a mile to a mile in width and are hard to 

 cross, owing to the loose and yielding sand. No low vegetation is 

 present on these areas, and but two species of Orthoptera, Tri- 

 merotropis texana and laticincta, were taken in the section. On the 

 north side of the sand and yucca belt, in extensive rabbit-weed tracts, 

 collecting was veiy productive, Hesperotettix viridis being found in 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



abundance and Pseudosermyle straminea and truncata were taken, the 

 former in numbers, the latter sparingly. As Deming is a considerable 

 distance from the greasewood slopes at the bases of the nearest moun- 

 tains (Florida and Cook's ranges), those areas were too distant to be 

 examined on foot. 



The interesting roach Homceogamia erratica was found at night 

 about lights in the town, wliile Hormilia eleyans was attracted the same 

 way. 



Florida Mountains, Luna County, New Mexico. Altitude, 4,500 to 

 5,500 feet. July 19, 1907. 



By driving fourteen miles across the mesquite plain from Doming 

 and ascending the gradual greasewood slopas the Florida ^lountains 

 were reached. Various stops on the way revealed nothing of special 

 interest in either the mesquite or greasewood areas. A canyon at the 

 north end of the range, extending southwest imder the towering bulk 

 of Capitol Dome, was our objective point. A small spring which trick- 

 led a short distance over the rocks before disappearing proved very 

 attractive to Telmatettix aztecus, which was present in nunibei"s on 

 the damp spots. The slopes of the canyon were rugged and steep, but 

 we ascended the east face to about 5,500 feet elevation. On the semi- 

 barren slope, with here and there a holly-like scrub oak and numerous 

 scattered mountain bushes, the former often with a precarious hold be- 

 tween boulders, Orthoptera were not uncommon and in character were 

 ver>' interesting. Among the species found were Yersinia solitaria, Mer- 

 miria texana, Melanoplus aridus, Mestobregma plattei and Trimcro- 

 tropis cyaneipennis. The steepness of the ascent and the short length 

 of time at our disposal prevented us from reaching the sunnnit of the 

 mountains. The slopes at the foot of the mountains did not yield 

 even moderately good collecting and but two or three common species 

 were taken. 



Silver Cilij, Grant Countij, New Mexico. Altitude, 5,900 feet. 

 July 20, 19f)7. 



.\bout one-half day was spent at Silver City, collecting on the rounded 

 hills west of the town. Various short grasses scantily covered the 

 tops and slopes of these hills, with here and tiiere in the ravines and 

 valleys clumps of junipci-. Collecting was not very productive, the 

 only species worthy of note being AiUocara rufiim (the first New Mexi- 

 can record), Cordillacris npnrhr, Stirnplrnro pit.'^illn and Trimcrotropis 

 mclanoptcra. 



.Mhuquerque, Bernalillo County, New .\Ir.riro. .Mtitudc about 

 4.900 feet. September 14, 1907. 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1 ll).i 



Nearly all the collecting at Albuquorque was accoiuplisjlu-d near 

 the river in low grassy fields and areas of cultivated ground. In 

 this location Orthoptera were found in great numbei-s, but collecting 

 was made difficult by the swarms of mosquitoes which were every- 

 where very active and vicious. On areas of short grass were found 

 Encoptolophns Uxcnsis, Litanciitria skinncri, Paropomala calamus and 

 virgata and Mermiria bivittata, while in the higher and more succulent 

 gro^^i:hs of heaiy weeds, clover and grasses many Melanoplus hivit- 

 taius, M. femur-ruhrum, M. diffcreniialis and Ncmobius vtahensis were 

 found. A single specimen of Telmatcttix aztcciis was captured by a 

 pool beside the river and one other specimen was seen. In the arid 

 footliill section but two specimens of T rimer oiropis fasdcula and one 

 or two T. vinculata were found. 



BLATTID^. 



BLATTELLA Caudell. 

 Blattella germanioa (Linnx-us). 



A specimen of this cosmopolitan species was attracted to light at 

 Deming, July 20. 



TEMNOPTERYX Brunner. 

 Temnopteryx desertse n. sp. 



Type: 9 ; Johnstone, Valverde Co., Texas. July 8, 1907. M. 

 Hebard. [Hebard Collection.] 



A very peculiar species with lateral, non-attingent tegmina. Its 

 relationship is closer to T. limbata Saussure from eastern Mexico and 

 T. lobipennis Saussure from Brazil than to any other species of the 

 genus, differing from the former in the more elongate and non-attin- 

 gent tegmina, which reach to the apical margin of the first abdominal 

 seoment, and in the shorter and thicker cei'ci; from the latter in the 

 proportionately shorter tegmina and much smaller general size. 



In general appearance the resemblance of the species to those of the 

 genus Loboptera is veiy great, but the wings are present as distinct, 

 articulate though functionless appendages, w^hich is not the case with 

 Loboptera. 



Size small ; form depressed, ovate. Head with the occipital outline 

 arcuate and distinctly projecting beyond the pronotum; space between 

 the eyes great, shghtly more than that betw^een the ocellar spots. 

 Pronotum sUghtly broader than longer, moderately arcuate transvereely, 

 lateral and cephalic margins slightly thickened, cephalic margin 

 arcuato-truncate, lateral margins moderately arcuate, caudo-lateral 




' \ 



1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117 



angles rounded rectangulate, caudal margin veiy slightly arcuate; 



caudal portion of the disk with a pair of shallowly impressed 



areas. Tegmina about equal to the pronotum in length, elongate 



trigonal, reaching to the margin of the first abdominal segment, 



the greatest width contained one and one-half times in the 



length; costal margin straight, arcuate at the base and at the apex, 



sutural margin arcuate, the apex very 



narrowly rounded; anal vein distinct, f, * 



arcuate, reaching the sutural margin n gn^ \ 



distad of the middle, costal field separated y'^'^^^^^N^ 



by a moderateh' impressed line; space / '^-"'j^ ^ . ^ . ^^ />. 



between the tegmina about equal to the / J k^ \ 



width of one of them. Wings falUng / ^'^>>^:zz:;zJrs^\\ \ 



slightly short of the tips of the tegmina. . ^^^£^^ i^, 



Mesonotum and metanotum with their '^ "^l^^r ' 



margins truncate. Abdomen with its 



greatest width distinctly exceeding that '^ 



of the pronotum; proximal dorsal segment ^'ig- l.—Tenmopteryx desertoe 

 „.;.i 4.1 •, J •,, ,, n.sp. Dorsal view of type. 



With the margin arcuate, second with the (x 3.) 



margin slightly arcuate, third, fourth and 



fifth sub-truncate, sixth andseventh arcuate-emarginate, eighth arcuate- 

 emarginate laterad and produced obtuse-angulate mesad; supra-anal 

 plate trigonal, apex rectangulate, medio-longitudinal carina blunt; 

 sul)genital plate moderately arcuate in transverse section, margin 

 arcuate, truncate mesad; cerci distinctly but not greatly exceeding the 

 subgenital plate, heavy, depressed, fusiform, apex moderately sharp. 

 LiniV)s so badly damaged that the spine fornuila cannot be satisfac- 

 torily determined. 



General color of the head and pronotum ochraceous, becoming paler 

 toward the lateral margin of the pronotum; color of the abdomen and 

 thoracic segments except the cephalic half of the mesonotum which is 

 ochraceous, chestnut, venter of the abdomen chestnut mesad becom- 

 ing ftchraccous laterad, subgenital plate tawny ochraceous, venter of 

 the thorax and limbs pale buff. Eyes black; tegmina chestnut with 

 the costal portion pale buff; cerci burnt sienna edged with blackish. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 'J.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum, '•'» " 



Greatest width of pronotimi 1.1" 



Lengtii of tegmeii -^ " 



Greatest width of abdomen. 5.2 " 




118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1"<'1>-, 



The unique type \va:> found upon overturning a small bouMer on 

 the bare desert. 



HOM(£OGAMIA Burmeister. 

 Homceogamia erratioa Rehn. 



At Deming, July 18 to 20, a series of eleven males of this species was 

 collected at night about electric lights in the town. All the specimens 

 were taken on rough walls or screens upon which a light shone, excej^ting 

 one specimen which was flying about a light, much in the manner 

 of a Noctuid, but not so erratic. There is in the lot an appreciable 

 amount of variation in size, and in a few specimens the disk of the 

 pronotimi is darker than in others. In all of the eleven individuals 

 the interspace between the ocelU is greater than that between the 

 eyes, although in one specimen the difference is very slight. 



This is the first exact record of the species from New Mexico. 



MANTIDiE. 

 YERSINIA Saussure. 

 Tersinia solitaria Scudder. 



On rocky slopes and ledges and on scattered boulders at altitudes 

 of from 4,300 to 6,000 feet this species appears at home. Perfectly 

 protected by its coloration which harmonizes with its enviromnent, it 

 is with considerable difficulty that individuals are located. When 

 disturbed they spring very quickly to a new resting-place, often jvunp- 

 ing as much as six inches, frequently repeating their spring several 

 times until a place of safety is reached. 



A series of twenty-six specimens was taken at the following localities : 

 Dry Canyon, Sacramento Mountains, 4,900-5,500 feet, Jul}^ 13. two 

 males and two females; Aden, 4,386 feet, July 21, one male; Florida 

 Mountains, 5,100-5,200 feet, Juty 19, eight males, five females; Silver 

 City, 5,900 feet, July 20, four males, one female and two with the 

 sex not determinable as the apex of the abdomen is missing in both. 

 The majority of the individuals collected are immature, but se^•eral 

 from Dr}^ Canyon, a number from the Florida Mountains and one from 

 Silver City are fully adult. Adult males from the Florida Mountains 

 range from 19 to 22 mm. in length of body, while mature females from 

 the same locality show extremes of 18 and 25 mm. In color numerous 

 shades are present — clay color, ochraceous, orange-red, wood brown, 

 seal brown and greenish-yellow, one specimen being parti-color, the 

 head, pro- and mesothorax and fimbs pale orange-red, the remainder 

 of the body very pale ochraceous. 



Two males and two females from Fort Wingate, New Mexico, taken 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 119 



September 15-16, 1908, by John Woodgate, have also been ex- 

 amined. 



The records given herewith are the first pubhshed ones of the species 

 from southern Xew Mexico, while the known range extends from western 

 Nebraska and southwestern Colorado south to central southern New 

 Mexico and southeastern Arizona. 



LITANEUTRIA Saussure. 

 Litaneatria skinneri Rehn. 



At El Paso this interesting species was taken in three quite different 

 situations : swept from dr>' grass in sandy ground along the Rio Grande, 

 July 10 (one c?); swept from greasewood on edge of mesa, 4,200 feet, 

 July 11 (one 9 ), and taken from the bare face of a precipitous rock at 

 5,000 feet elevation in the Franklin Mountains, July 9 (one ? ). One 

 male and two females were taken on dry bunch grass at Albuquerque 

 on September 14, while five immature specimens (two cJ*, three 9) 

 taken at Aden, July 21, on grass prairie, and at Silver City, July 20, are 

 provisionally referred to this species. The Albuquerque females and 

 the Franklin Mountains individual are equal to the female type in size, 

 wliile the other El Paso female is distinctly smaller and less robust. 

 The Franklin Mountains specimen is blotched and barred with seal- 

 brown on a pale mars-brown ground, a coloration eminently protec- 

 tive as our field notes mention the blending of this insect's coloring into 

 the surroundings. 



The range of this species now extends from the Grand Canyon region, 

 Arizona, and Albuquerque, New Mexico, south to the Iluachuca 

 Mountains, Arizona, and the vicinity of El Paso, Texas. 



8TAGM0MANTIS Saussure. 

 Stagmomaiitis ^^p. 



Immature specimens of a species of this genus were taken as follows : 

 on irrigated land at El Paso, July 10 and 11; at the east base of the 

 Franklin .Mountaias, July 9; Alamogordo, July'13; Aden, July 21, on 

 rabbit weed; Deming, July 18; Silver City, July 20. Of the eleven 

 specimeas before us all are in the green phase except one which has 

 the thorax dark brown. The Alamogordo specimen is a female nearly 

 mature. 



PHASMID^. 



PARABACILLUS < :„..U.1|. 

 Parabacillas coloradas (.Scudder). 



This peculiar walking stick wa.'- ciifoiintcrcd at three localities, viz. : 

 Dr\' Canyon, 5,fK)0 feet elevation, July 13, two fonialos; Cloudrroft, 




IJO PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



8.1)(H) feet elevation. July 1.5, one male; Aden, 4, 100-4,500 feet ele- 

 vation. July 21 . five females. The Cloudcroft male is apparently 

 mature, the remainder being in about the same stage of the immature 

 condition. 



At Aden and in Dry Canyon the species was taken by beating low 

 vegetation, while at Cloudcroft it was captured in a clumji of gra.'is 

 under pines and fir. Two females, taken at Fort AVingate, New Mexico, 

 Nov. 4. 1907, and Sept. 9, 1908, by John Woodgate, have also been 

 examined. The range of this form now extends from Nebraska and 

 Colorado south to southern New Mexico and west to southern Cali- 

 fornia. 



PSEUDOSERMYLE Caudell. 

 Psoudosermyle straminea (Scmlder). 



This species was present, July 18, in great numbers on rabl)it weed 

 on the plain north of the town of Deming and around the drj- l)ed of 

 the Mimbres River. A series of twenty-one males, all adult, and four 

 females in various stages of immaturity was taken on that date. A 

 single male was taken from the same plant on the lower slopes of the 

 Florida ^fountains, July 19, while six of the same sex from Aden, July 

 21, and one other male from Dry Canyon, Sacramento Mountams, taken 

 on July 13, are included in the collection. Practically all of the specimens 

 were taken by beating, the insects exhibiting a striking reliance upon 

 their protective form and coloration. When alarmed they held them- 

 selves motionless -vA-ith legs at stiff angles and, upon experimenting 

 with one of the individuals, this was found to be true when it was picked 

 from the bush, and even when dropped upon the sand it retained its 

 rigidity. 



In .size there is a considerable amount of variation, the extremes of 

 the Deming series of males measuring 40.5 and 47 millimeters in the 

 length of the body. The form of the male cerci remains essentially 

 the same, some sUght but unimportant variations being present. In 

 coloration there appears to be two types, in the male at least, one ohve- 

 greenish, the other greenish-yellow, the whitish lateral lines being 

 present more or less distinctly in all the adult males seen. The imma- 

 ture females are all yellowish-green, with very faint indications, in one 

 or two individuals, of the lateral lines. 



This species was previously known only from the vicinity of Mesilla 

 Park, Donna Ana County, New Mexico. The range now covers 

 sections of Otero, Donna Ana and Luna Counties. 

 Pseudosermyle tmncata Caudell. 



Associated with P. straminea on rabbit weed, three males and one 




1909.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



121 



female of this species were taken near Deniing, July IS, ^\hile under 

 similar surroundings at Aden a pair were taken on July 21. 



The males are of very similar coloration, the oUve green predomi- 

 nating in one or two more than in the othei-s. The females, however, 

 are quite dissimilar, one being pale yellowish-green, the other pale 

 cupreous green like weathered copper. 



The range of this species is now known to extend from Aden, Donna 

 Ana County, New Mexico, to Los Angeles County, California, and 

 from the Grand Canyon region to near the Mexican line. 



Pseudosermyle tenuis n. sp. 



Type: d" ; Franklin Mountains, altitude 4,500 

 feet, near El Paso, El Paso County, Texas. 

 July 9, 1907. Hebard and Rehn. [Hebard 

 Collection.] 



This new form is a most interesting species, 

 allied to P. banksii Caudell, from eastern and 

 east-central Texas. Through the kindness 

 of the describer of banksii I have been able to 

 compare the new form with a typical specimen 

 of his species, from which tenuis differs in the 

 .shghtly more robust build with slightly shorter 

 legs though the body is slightly longer, in the 

 absence of a median carina from the caudal 

 portion of the occiput, in the smoother proxi- 

 mal antennal joint, in the narrower pronotum 

 which is distinctly constricted cephalad, in 

 the less distinctly keeled meso- and meta- 

 notum, in the less compressed and more in- 

 flated apex of the abdnmon, and in the slightly 

 more incurved cerci. 



Size medium; form very elongate, extremely 

 slender. Head slightly longer than the prono- 

 tum, dwidedly longer than broad, slightly 

 narrower at the caudal margin than immediately 

 caudad of the eyes, a j)air of short low sinuate 

 carina; j)re«ent mesad and extending caudad 

 a."^ far as between the caudal margin of the eyes, 

 these carinm sharply constricted between the 

 antcimte and again slightly ccnistricted at a 

 point between the cephalic margin of the eyes, 

 a slight median carina present between the paired carinir caudad; 



FiR. 2. — Psctidoscrmijle 

 /crji//.s n. sp. Dorsiil 

 vicwf)f tj'po. (Nat- 

 ural !i'\7A^.) 




122 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



occiput smooth; eyes sligiitly dcpivsscd. circular in outliiu', lathiM- 

 small, not prominent; antennje sliglitly exceeding the licad and 

 thoracic segments in length, slender, the joints elongate, th(> 

 proximal joint with a slight lamellate expansion on the proximo- 

 internal portion. Pronotum narrow, the greatest width (supra-coxal) 

 contained about one and one-half times in the length, the cephalic 

 portion strongly constricted with the lateral margins bent ventrud 

 and the section A -shaped; lateral margins very slightly converging 

 caudad of the middle, the caudal margin truncate, a moderate median 

 transverse and a broken longitudinal sulcus present. Mesonotum 

 very sUghtly less than three times the length of the head and 

 pronotum together, arcuate in section, very slightly expanding 

 caudad, a ver>' slight median carination present cephalad, the whole 

 mesonotum elongate sub-cylindrical. Metanotum including the 

 median segment four-fifths the length of the mesonotum, arcuate 

 in section except caudad where it is flattened, slightly expanding 

 caudad, a slight carination present on all but the median segment, 

 which latter is less than a fifth the length of the metanotum sensu 

 stricUore, with its greatest width (caudal) about equal 

 to the length and the cephalic margin much narrower 

 than the caudal. Abdomen slightly shorter than 

 the thorax, the five proximal joints subequal in 

 length and similar in character and width, each seg- 

 ment being about three times as long as wide and 

 veiy slightly widened at the extremities; sixth 

 joint about four-fifths the length of the fifth; seventh 

 joint slightly longer than the sixth, narrow proxi- 

 mad, inflated dorsad, ventrad and laterad in the 

 distal portion; eighth segment quite short, tapering 

 caudad; ninth segment slightly longer than the 

 eighth segment, moderately inflated but hardly 

 expanded laterad, the distal margin A -shaped when 

 seen from the caudal aspect; supra-anal plate visible as a point between 

 the bases of the cerci; subgenital opercule 

 tubular, moderately large, reaching to the 

 distal margin of the eighth segment, the 

 apical valve small with its margin with a 

 slight projection; cerci about as long as the 

 ninth segment, straight when seen from the 

 side, moderately arcuate when seen from the 

 dorsum, rather robust, trifid, the apical 

 pair of processes less robust than the 



Fig. 3. — Pseudo- 

 sermyle tenuis 

 n. sp. Dorsal 

 outline of 

 head and pro- 

 notum. (x 4.) 



Fig. 4. — Pseiidonermijle tenuis 

 n . sp. Lateral view of apex 

 of abdomen. (X 4.) 



median one which is 




1909.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



123 



quite blunt at the apex. Limbs slender, the femora, particularly 

 the caudal, very slightly bowed dorso-ventrad. Cephalic femora 

 but slightly shorter than the head, pronotum and mesonotum 

 together, proximal flexure rather sharp; cephahc tibia? surpassing the 

 head and thorax in length. Median femora when extended caudad 

 reaching to the middle of the second abdominal segment ; median 

 tibiae slightly longer than the femora. Caudal femora reaching to the 

 apex of the sixth abdominal segment; caudal tibiffi slightly longer 

 than the femora; caudal tarsi -u-ith the proximal joint about two- 

 thirds the entire length of the same. 



General color very pale greenish, becoming buflf on the venter and 

 limbs, the head and pronotum ochraceous-buff mesad, a white lateral 

 line extending caudad from the antennae, bordering the eye doi-sad and 

 becoming obsolete on the sides of the pronotum. Apex of the abdomen 

 cream-buff, shghtly washed TNith ochraceous-buff. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 



Length of pronotum, 



Length of me.^onotum, 



Length of motanotum (including median segment). 



Length of cephalic femur, 



Length of median femur, 



Length of caudal femur, 



The unique type wa.s taken on bunch grass on the east slope of the 

 mountains. L'pon being api)roachcd it violently shook the stems to 

 which it was clinging, apjjarcntly to conceal itself or frighten away its 

 enemies. Upon experimenting we found the insect would repeat this 

 performance as often as approached. 



DIAPHEROMERA Gray. 

 Diapheromera parsimilig CaudcU. 



Two females, one mature, the other not quite mature, taken on irri- 

 gated land along the Rio Grande near El Paso, July 10, are referred 

 to this species; the mature individual was swept from tornillo or screw 

 bean, the other from thick weeds. After a careful study of the species 

 of the genus, a tabulation of their more important character in the 

 female sex, and of their measurements, we have readied the conclusion 

 that this species described from the vicinity of Brownsville extends 

 up the Rio Grande valley at least as far as El Paso. The cerci of the 

 specimens in hand fully answer Caudell's description in l)cing inter- 

 mediate in length between those of femorata and veliei, while the 




124 



PROCEEDINGS OF THK ACADEMY OF 



[lei 



measuroments a.s <;iven bolow with those of the type female of 

 persitnilis show the similarity of proportions. 



The proportions of the El Paso specimens are seen to approximate 

 ver}' closely to those of the type female and we feel justified in con- 

 sidering them persimilis. Actual comparison with Brownsville females 

 or the acquisition of El Paso males would, however, make the deter- 

 mination more positive. No very close relationship exists to the 

 Mexican D. calcarata and comparison has been made wath females of 

 femorata, veliei* and arizonensis. 



Diapheromera mesillana Scudder. 



Ten females, including one mature specimen and others in three 

 immature stages of growth, appear to represent this species, previously 

 known only from the male sex. When compared with the species 

 represented by the female sex in the collections before us they are 

 clearly different, as the following comparison shows : 



Head. Similar to arizonensis but more depressed. 



Froiwtum. Much as in arizonensis, distinctly shorter than in 

 veliei. 



Dorsal apical abdominal segments. Longer and narrow'er than in 

 femorata, persimilis, and arizonensis, much as in veliei. 



Cerci. Longer than in all but persimilis and veliei, tapering, acute. 



* Brunner (Insektenfam. Phnsm., II, pp. .337, 338) has redescribed this species 

 from Texas under the name dolichoceph/dn. He entirely overlooked tlie name 

 odiei as well as the species arizonensis Caudeli, Carolina Scudder, mesillana 

 Scudder and persimilis Caudeli. 




1909.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



125 



grooved on the internal face, much shorter than veliei, much more acute 

 and less subequal than in persimilis. 



Subgenital opercide. Nearest to veliei, but blunter. 



A key to the females of the five species before us would be as follows : 



A. — Cerci hardly more than half the length of the eighth abdominal 

 segment. 

 B. — Subgenital opercule arcuate at the apex, feviorata. 



BB. — Subgenital opercule arcuato-truncate at the apex with a 

 distinct median projecting finger, . . . arizoy^cnsis. 

 AA. — C'erci decidedly more than half the length of the eighth abdominal 

 segment. 

 B. — Apical margin of the subgenital opercule not reaching to the 

 apical margin of the eighth dorsal abdominal segment. 

 C. — Head narrow, but httle exceeding the cephalic width 

 of the mesonotum. Cerci as long as the ninth doi-sal 



abdominal segment, veliei. 



CC. — Head broad, half again as A^ide as the cephalic width 

 of the mesonotum. Cerci no more than half the 

 length of the ninth dorsal abdominal segment, 



7tiesillana. 



BB. — Apical margin of the subgenital opercule reaching to the 



apical margin of the eighth doreal abdominal segment, 



persimilis. 



Three of the specimeas of mesillana measure as follo^\'S : 



I r 



mm. 



El Paso (aduit) 82.5 



Demiiig (immature ) 47.2 



El Paso (immature; 40.5 



Uf the series referred to tmsilldun, a single one (adult j was tak«'M at 

 El Paso on July 17 on mesquite in the desert, an inuiiature individual 

 was collected at the same place on July 10 on the irrigated land along 




120 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Kol)., 



the Rio Grande, wiiile seven in various stages of growth were taken at 

 Deniing on July 18 on the rabbit weed and mesquite flat, and a single 

 ininiature specimen was taken on the lower slopes of tiic Florida 

 Mountains, July 19. 



A bleached female specimen from Pecos, Texas, in the collection of 

 the Academy belongs to this species. It has been immei"sed in hfiuid 

 preservative at some time and in consequence is somewhat shrivelled, 

 but the character of the head and \he apex of the abdomen show it 

 to be mcsillana. 



The range of the species now extends from Reeves County, Texas, 

 to Luna County, New Mexico. 



CERATITES-' n. subgenus. 



Closely related to true Diapheromera, but differing in the presence of 

 a pair of horns on the head in both sexes,' and in the peculiar recurved 

 and inflated margin of the subgenital opercule in the male. 



Type. — Diapheromera (Ceratitcs) covillece n. sp. 



This subgenus includes four and probably five species: the type 

 species, tamaidipensis Rehn from Tamaulipas, Mexico, and hcckeri and 

 bideiis Kaup^ from Mexico, while saussurii Kirby* from Dominica 

 probably belongs in this group, although rather anomalous in the 

 \minflated median femora. 



Diapheromera (Ceratites) covilleae n. sp. 



Types: c? and 9 ; Franklin Mountains, altitude 4,500 feet, near 

 El Paso, El Paso County, Texas. July 9, 1907. On greasewood {Covil- 

 lea tridentata). (Hebard and Rehn.) [Hebard Collection.] 



Compared with D. beckeri and hidcns Kaup, its nearest allies, the 

 new species differs from the former in the head being longer than the 

 pronotum, in the distinctly larger size and in the unarmed ventral mar- 

 gias of the cephalic limbs; from bidens it differs in the distinctly larger 

 size, more distant horns and in the absence of granules from the head 

 and thoracic segments. The cerci and eighth and ninth dorsal abdomi- 



' Kfijarirrjr, one that has horns. 



' Horns are absent from the head of a male of a new species from Mexico 

 (tamaidipensis Rehn), but the female of that species po.ssesses such well-marked 

 cephalic appendages that we feel justified in considering their absence in the 

 male as purely accidental. 



' Berlin. Ent. Zeilschrift, XV, pp. 27, 28, 1871. 



" Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., (6). Ill, p. 501, 1889. 




1909.1 



NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA, 



127 



nal segments of the male type are absent or mutilated, the injury being 

 due to the work of a fellow prisoner in the cyanide bottle. 



Size moderately large; fonn moderately slender in the male, more 

 robust in proportion in the female ; surface smooth, polished in the male. 

 Head slightly longer than the pronotum, broad, very sUghtly depressed 

 in the male; occiput moderately inflated, somewhat globose; inter- 

 ocular region with a pair of short, erect, 

 well separated conical horns, the horns 

 placed nearer the eyes than they are to 

 one another; eyes globose, quite promi- 

 nent in the male when seen from the 

 dorsum, somewhat smaller proportion- 

 ately and less prominent in the female; 

 antennsp reaching nearly to the apex 

 of the abdomen in the male, reaching 

 about to the third abdominal segment 

 in the female. Pronotum longer than 

 broad, the caudal portion slightly con- 

 stricted; cephalic margin veiy slightly 

 arcuato-emarginate, caudal margin sub- 

 truncate in the male, very broadly 

 obtuse-angulate in the female; trans- 

 verse depression broad and deep, mak- 

 ing the pronotum subsellate when seen 

 from the side, longitudinal median 

 sulcus very slight. Mesonotum slightly 

 more ( d^ ) or slightly less ( 9 ) than 

 twice the length of the head and pro- 

 notum together, rather narrow, sub- 

 ecjual distad and expanding in the 

 caudal third in the male, regularly 

 but not greatly expanding caudad 

 throughout its whole length in the 

 female. Metanotum and the median 

 segment but slightly shorter than the 

 inesonfitum in the male, three-fourths 

 the length of the same in the female, 

 no broader than the mesonotum and 



similar in shape in the male, about equal to the widest portion of the 

 mesonotum in the female; median segment .slightly (d*) or strongly 

 ( 9 ) transverse, less than a fourth the length of the remainder of the 



Fip. '}. — IHapherojfiera (Cn-alHes) 

 ronlleii; u. s\i. Dorsal vifw of 

 main type CXatiiral .sizo.) 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



which the species is found and feeds. As individuals near maturity 

 this color pattern is lost, the dull coloration of the female type sup- 

 planting it. The two mesa adult.s have the hoary suffusion much 

 stronger and more extensive than in the female type, the liml)s and the 

 greater portion of the body being much lighter than in the type. The 

 cephalic horns are well indicated in all the immature specinieas, 



A series of seven females from Pecos, Reeves County, Texas, in the 

 Academy collection are referred to this species, although rather smaller 

 and slenderer, the latter difference probably being due to the fact 

 that all have been immersed for some time in a liquid preservative and 

 in consequence there has been considerable shrivelling. The essential 

 characters, i.e., width of head, horns and form of femoral spines and 

 apex of abdomen, are the same as in the El Paso specimens. 



ACRIDID^. 



TELMATETTIX Hancock. 

 Telmatettix aztecus (Saussure). 



In a canyon in the Florida Mountains, at about 5,100 feet elevation, 

 along a little rill of water which trickled a few dozen yards over a 

 rock slope and thin top soil, this species was found quite plentiful on 

 July 19. Specimens were noticed only on such spots as had been 

 moistened by the water, a series of fourteen males and eleven females 

 being taken in a short time. The iasects were active and flew rapidly 

 about when disturbed. There is a considerable range of color varia- 

 tion in the lot, many shades of browns and grays being represented, 

 with several decidedly rufous individuals, and a nimiber with com- 

 plete or incomplete "saddle" of blackish brown caudad of the broadest 

 portion of the pronotum. In one specimen the cephalic and median 

 limbs and the ventral margin of the lateral lobes of the pronotum are 

 ringed or spotted with brilliant red. All the series have the pronotum 

 elongate. 



PARATETTIX Bolivar. 

 Paratettix mexicanuB (Saussure). 



A male of tliis species was taken on irrigated land along the Rio 

 Grande, at^El Paso, July 10, and a female was captured on cultivated 

 ground at Albuquerque, September 14. 



ACRYDIUM Geoffroy. 

 Acrydium craasum (Morse). 



A single male of this species was taken at Cloudcroft, July 15, being 

 beaten from vegetation on the steep hillside of James Canyon at an 




1909. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 



131 



elevation of about 8.800 feet. When compared with two male repre- 

 sentatives of the species from near Manitou, Colorado, it is seen to 

 differ only in the slightly more arcuate cephaUc section of the median 

 carina of the pronotum. 



The only previous Xew Mexican record of the species was of its cap- 

 tm'e at Las Vegas, April 13. 



Acrydium incarvatnin (Hancock). 



A pair of this species, taken at Fort Wingate. April 23 and May 8, 

 1908, by John Woodgate, have been examined. 



The only definite record from Xew Mexico published previous to 

 this date was from 6.500 feet elevation on the Rio Ruidoso, White 

 ^lountains, Lincoln County, July 30. The species has been recorded 

 from Washington and Colorado. 



MEBMIBIA St&i. 

 Mermiria bivittata (Serville). 



This -widely distributed species is represented by a series of thirty-three 

 specimens, taken at the follo^^^ng localities: Spofford, Kinney County, 

 Texas, July 8 (one nymph) ; Johastone, Valverde County, Texas, July 8 

 (one nvniph) ; Seminole, Valverde County, Texas, July 8 (1 cJ^) ; El Paso, 

 July 10-11 (9 d", 2 9); Albuquerque. September 14 (12 6^,7 9). 

 In size there is a ver\' appreciable amount of variation, particularh' 

 in the male sex, while several types of coloration are easily recognized. 

 The Albuquerque series is rather dull in color, with broad postocular 

 bai"s which infringe on the dorsum of the pronotum in the male; the 

 El Paso specimens represent two color types, one ochraceous with 

 prominent postocular bars infringing on the dorsum of the pronotum 

 and with a distinct or subobsolete median occipital strijio in the males, 

 the other light greenish with the postocular bars narrower, limited to 

 the lateral lobes and sharply defined, the occiput usually without a 

 median line. The Seminole male belongs to the fii"st type mentioned 

 from El VfXBO. The pale subcostal streak is present on the tegmina of 

 all the scries, though var>'ing somewhat in intensity and also in color, 

 ranging from white to bright green. The form of the fastigium and 

 of the rostrum when seen from the lateral aspect is subject to consider- 

 able variation, the latter particularly e.xliibiting a surprising range, from 

 a type with the facial line regular from the fastigio-facial angle to the 

 clypeal suture Jto one with a very evident though obtuse angle between 

 the antennal bases. The Albuquerque series was taken on cultivated 

 ground, while at El Paso the species was encountered among tornillo 




132 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Kc 



biishes in irripatoil <rr()uiKl ah)ng tlic Rio CJrande. The Seminole 

 specimen was taken from grass growing on a sandy spot. 

 Mermiria texana Uniner. 



Tiiis beautiful species is essentially one of the rough desert moun- 

 tains and foothills, the altitude at which it occurs being between 

 4.(X)0 and 5,5CX) feet. On the rugged slopes of the Franklin Moun- 

 tains and their broken foothills three males and one innnature 

 female were captured on July 9, while on a rocky desert hill at Aden a 

 pair were taken on July 21. An immature female from the lower 

 slopes of the Florida Mountains, Jul}' 19, belongs to this species. A 

 series of nine adult specimens of the species in the brown phase is now 

 before us and surjorisingly little difference in coloration is exhibited. 

 Aside from the medio-longitudinal bar on the head and pronotum 

 which is pale in one specimen, the only appreciable color variations 

 are that the caudal tibia^ range from pale pinkish, through vermilion 

 to solferino, and the antenna? are more obscure in some specimens than 

 in others. 



Indi\'iduals of the species are alert and quick to take wing, in fact 

 this is one of the most difficult insects to capture among the Orthoptera 

 of the Southwest. 



PAROPOMALA Scudder. 



In studying the series of Paropomala contained in the collection it 

 was found necessary to critically examine the descriptioiLs of all the 

 species of the genus. Aside from the unique and little known P. 

 dissimilis Bruner, the only species not easily located was P. virgata 

 Scudder, very briefly described from Mesilla, New Mexico, between 

 Gila Bend and Yuma, Arizona, Palm Springs, Cahon Pass, Lancaster 

 and Kern City, California. In reply to a request for typical material 

 of the species. Prof. Morse very kindly loaned us cotypes from all 

 the typical localities, and on careful study it develops that at least 

 two species are included in the series on which virgata was based. 

 The Mesilla individuals belong to a short comparatively robust species 

 found at several localities in the Rio Grande valley, while the southern 

 Californian and Arizonan individuals belong to the species later called 

 pallida by Bruner. ' One cotype from Kern City may be distinct from 

 pallida of the Mohave, Colorado and Gila desert regions, having the 

 fastigium very broad and the pronotum narrower than usual, but with- 

 out additional material its separation does not seem warranted, inas- 

 much a.s forty-nine specimens of the species from Arizona, California 

 and Nevada exhibit a great amount of individual variation. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 133 



As no single type or pair of types of virgata was originally designated, 

 and the original diagnosis being too brief to give any assistance, the 

 selection as typical virgata of either species known to exist in the 

 type series is open to us. and in view of Mesilla, New ^lexico, standing 

 first in the list of localities the Rio Grande form is here selected as true 

 Paropomala virgata. 



To assist in the work of determination a key to the species in hand 

 was constructed which is here reproduced to aid future workers. As 

 stated above all the species have been examined except P. dissimilis 

 Bruner. 



A. — Tegmina not reaching tip of aljdomen or even tip of caudal 



femora; subgenital plate of male elongate, half as longjagain 



as the last ventral segment. 



B. — Antennae of female as long as the caudal femora ; eyes smaller, 



the interocular space in the male decidedly more than 



half the length from that region to the apex of the 



fastigium; caudal femora longer, 



ivyomingcnsis (Thom.) [ci/Hndrica Bruner]. 

 BB. — Antonnie of female shorter than the caudal femora; eyes 

 larger, the interocular space in the male less than half 

 the length from that regir)n to the apex of the fastigium; 

 caudal femora shorter, .... calamus Scudd. 

 AA. — Tegmina surpassing the tips of the caudal femora, generally 

 reaching the apex of the abdomen and in some cases sur- 

 passing it. Subgenital plate of male (at least in the species 

 where known) not very long, hardly longer than Ww last 

 ventral segment. 

 B. — Form rather slender or motleratoly robust (for the genus), 

 slightly compressed; head moderately j^roduced. 

 C. — Tegmina of male not exceeding the apex of the abdo- 

 men; occiput more or less appreciably intlat(Hi; 

 caudal limbs rather slender; cerci styliforni, com- 

 paratively slender. 

 D. — Size larger (body of male 18.5-24 nun., of female 

 27-36.5 mm.) ; aiitciuiu' more depressed pro- 

 portionately; caudal margin of the disk of the 

 pronotum arcuate; metazoiia more than two- 

 thirds the length of the prozona, jxilliihi Bruner. 

 DD. — Size smaller (body of male Hi nun.) ; antennre 

 less depn^sed proportioiuitely ; caudal margin 

 of the disk of the proiiotum very i)luntly obtu.se- 

 angulate; metazona two-thirds the length of 

 the prozona, pcrpallida Rehn and Ilebard. 

 CC. — Tegmina of male excooding the apex of the a))domen ; 

 occiput not api>n'cial)ly inflated; caudal limKs 

 proportionately nntre robust; cerci styliforni, lufxi- 

 cratelv robu.st. virgata Scudder. 




134 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE AC.VDEMY OF 



[IVb., 



BB. — Form very slender, considerably compressed ; head strongly 

 produced. (Size rather small, o" 18-21 mm., 9 26-27.5 

 mm.) acris Rehn and Hebard. 



A single imperfect specimen from Lathrop, California, seems to 

 indicate the presence of a quite distinct species in the San Joaquin 

 valley. 



Paropomala calamus Scudder. 



Rather unexpectedly this species was encomitered at three places 

 in or adjacent to the Rio Grande valley. On the l)are desert slopes of 

 the Franklin Mountains at El Paso a single immature specimen was 

 taken on July 9 at an elevation of 4,500 feet ; a series of six adult and 

 five immature males and nine inunature females was taken at Aden, 

 July 21, wliile one adult male and two adult females were taken at 

 Albuquerque on September 14 in dry grass. At Aden the species was 

 taken chiefly in grass prairie land, where it was found clinging ti^uhtly 

 to blades of grass, while at Albuquerque it was found in the river 

 bottom-land. The immature specimens from Aden represent three 

 stages of growth. 



As no measurements have been pubUshed for this species the follow- 

 ing may prove of service : 



Albuquerque. Aden. Albur 



Length of body, 

 Length of head. 

 Length of pronotum, . 

 Length of tegmen, . 

 Length of caudal femur, . 



The specimens from Albuquerque are all in the green phase, while 

 the Aden series and the Franklin Mountains specimen are in the pale 

 brownish and hoary white phase. The adult males from Aden and 

 nearly half the immature series have the hoary white suffusion very 

 strongly marked, usually covering the head, pronotum, pleura and 

 caudal femora. 



The only previous record of this species is that of the types from 

 Lancaster, CaUfornia, in the Mohave desert. 



Paropomala virgata Scudder. 



Tliis species appears to Vje one restricted to the eastern side of the 

 continental divide, the only exact records being from the Rio Grande 

 valley and the region adjacent to it. At El Paso a series of seven 

 males and one female was taken July 10-11 on irrigated land along 

 the Rio Grande and in dry grass in sand near the edge of the mesa. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



A single male was taken in dr\' grass at Aden, July 21, while at Albu- 

 querque, September 14, a series of thirteen females was taken in dry 

 grass and on cultivated ground, chiefly on the latter. In size there is 

 a slight amount of variation, but not enough to cause any difficulty 

 in recognizing the species. An average pair measure as follows : 



El Paso- Albuquerque. 



Length of bodv, 17.3 mm. 24 mm. 



Length of head, 3 " 4 



Length of pronotum 3 " 4 " 



Length of tegmen 13 " 17 " 



Length of caudal femur, 9.5 " 12.7 " 



In coloration the species appears to be quite uniform, although the 

 Albuquerque series is darker than the individuals from the El Pasan 

 region, all examined being in a buff and brown phase except one Albu- 

 querque specimen which demonstrates the existence of a green phase. 



The comparatively robust build of the species, particularly of the 

 females, will readily serve to differentiate it from its allies. 



The only positive records for the species aside from those given here 

 are from the \'icinit3' of MesiUa and Las Cruces, Donna Ana County, 

 Xew Mexico. 



Paropomala acris Rehn and Hebard. 



This species, w^hich was described from Railroad Pass, Cochise County, 

 Arizona, was found to be fairly numerous at Aden, July 21, chiefly 

 in grass prairie land, a .'^eries of eight adult and two immature males 

 and two adult and three immature females being taken. A pair 

 was also taken at El Paso: the male, July 11, clinging to a thorn of a 

 mesquite near the edge of the mesa; the female, July 10, on i)rickly 

 pear (Opuntia sp.) in the greasewood belt at the east base of tlie 

 Franklin Mountains. 



The El Paso male is of nearly the same size as the type, but all the 

 Aden males are smaller. This difference in specimens from the two 

 localities holds true in the female sex, the two Aden specimens of that 

 sex being unifcjnn in size and l)oth smaller than the El Paso individual. 

 The following measurements may be of interest. 



El Paso. Aden. El Paso. Aden. 



Length of bodv,. . 21 mm. 18.5 mm. 30.5 nun. 28 mm. 



Length of head,. . :J.5 " 3.5 " 5 " -^ 5 " 



length of pronotiuii, 3.2 " 2.8 " 5 " 4.7 " 



Length of togmen, 15 " 13 " 21.5 " 19 5 

 Length of cauflal 



foniur. 10 2 " " 13 :. ■' I.: ."> • 




\'M\ PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACWDHMV OF [I't'lj-, 



The majority of tlie Aden scries is more grayisli ochraceous than the 

 type, the remainder being very similar to the Railroad Pass individual. 

 The El Paso male is o;reenish yellow iloi"sad, while the female from the 

 same locality is decidedly green with the tegmina roseate. 



The only localities from which the species is known are those recorded 

 here and the type locality — Railroad Pass, Arizona. 



8YRBULA St&l. 

 Syrbula admirabilis (Uhler). 



A single male taken July 8 at Johnstone, \' alverde County, Texas, 

 belongs to this species. 

 Syrbula foscovittata Thoma?. 



A mature male and an immature female taken in Dr}' Canyon, 

 Sacramento Mountains, July 13, and an adult female taken at 4,500 

 feet elevation in the Franklin Mountains, July 9, are referable to this 

 species. Both adult specimens are in the brown phase of coloration. 

 The male from Dry Canyon was taken at an elevation of about 5,000 

 feet, in the lower portion of the juniper and pinon zone. 



BOOTETTIX Bruner. 

 Bootettiz argentatns Bruner. 



This interesting grasshopper, which seems never to leave the branches 

 of the greasewood {Covillea tridentata) , was taken, July 9 to 11, at a 

 number of points in the greasewood belt on the mesa northeast of El 

 Paso and on the lower slopes of the Franklin Mountains. The series 

 from the El Pasan region, numbering twenty-four males, fourteen 

 females and eight nymphs, and two females and one nymph taken 

 July 13 in the greasewood of the lower portion of Dry Canyon, Sacra- 

 mento Mountains (elevation 4,800-4,900 feet), and the growth of the 

 same shrub on the alluvial slope at the mouth of the same canyon, 

 exhibits a very considerable amount of variation in size, the extremes 

 of each sex being as follows : 



In color numerous little variations are noticeable, none, however, 

 important enough to call for special note. In all the series the tegmina 

 are more or less strongly maculate, although the markings are limited 

 in the majority of the specimens to the vicinity of the anal area. The 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 137 



Striking pearl markings on the pronotum, pleura and limbs are present 

 in all the specimens, even in those in the immature condition, the bril- 

 liancy of these markings in the living insect being retained by a good 

 proportion of the series. 



The stridulation of Bootettix is a faint buzzing tzszszsz terminated by 

 a distinct whirr and repeated at intervals. 



ERITETTIX Bruner. 

 Eritettix variabilis Bruner. 



A single female of this species was taken at Cloudcroft, July 14, and 

 eleven males were collected at Aden, July 21. At Cloudcroft it was 

 taken in a mountain meadow, while at Aden the males were all collected 

 among a scant covering of desert plants on the rocky hillside. As in 

 the case of the other species of this genus, these individuals were found 

 to be extremely active. 



The males show a considerable amount of variation in size, but are 

 rather uniform in coloration. However, none of the males have their 

 color pattern as contrasted as the female, this being chiefly due to the 

 uniform dorsal color of the males, the female having the pair of black- 

 ish doi-sal lines quite distinct. The supplementary doi-sal carina' of 

 the pronotum are rather well marked over the whole doreum of the 

 pronotum in some males, indicated only on the metazona in otherrs 

 and entirely absent in a few, while the female possesses weakly devel- 

 oped ones. 



This species has previously been recorded from Silver City, Grant 

 County, and La Trementina, San Miguel County, New Mexico, and 

 Douglas, Cochise County, Arizona. 



OPEIA .McNeill. 

 Opeia imperfecta Bruner. 



During brief train stops made on July 8 at Dunlaj', Medina County, 

 and Spofford, Kinney County, Texas, this species wa.s captured in a 

 gras.sy spot under mesquite trees at the former locality and in diy grass 

 at the latter. A single male was taken at Dunlay and four of each sex 

 were collected at Spofford. 



These specimens demonstrate the unreliability of tlie length of 

 the tegmina and the form of the apex of the same as specific characters 

 in this genus. The typical specimens examined by Bruner all pos- 

 sessed rather abbreviate tegmina, "about one-half ( 9 ) or nearly three- 

 fourths (d^) as long as the abdomen, their apices pointed or acumi- 

 nate." In every character and every ])r()portion tlie Dunlay and 

 Spofford individuals fully agree with the original dwcription, except 




1->S PROCEEDINGS OF THK ACADKMV OF [l«'l>., 



that tlio males have tlir tcuiuiiia rcachiiifi- or slijiiitly oxccodiiiii- the 

 apox of the alHloinen. w\n\v \\w tVinalcs ])ossoss tc^miiia much over 

 half as lon<; as the abdomen, in all of that sex failinfi to reach the apices 

 of the caudal femora by less than the length of the pronotum. The 

 apices of the tejimina are more or less narrowly rounded in all the 

 specimens. On examining a number of representatives of the CJreat 

 Plains 0. obscura, which it may be added has a considerable amount 

 of variation in the terminal length, it is noticed that individuals witli 

 rather short tegmina have the tips of the same pointed, wliile those 

 witli longer tegmina have the same portions rounded. This is true of 

 almost all of a number of individuals of the species, and no doubt 

 explains the presence of rounded apices to the tegmina in the long- 

 winged Spofford and Dunlay individuals. 



To tlie charactei-s given l^y Bruner for se])arating Opeia imperfecta 

 from 0. obscura might be added the less inflated character of the head 

 in imperfecta with the resultant straighter and less arcuate occiput. 



This species was described from southwestern Texas and Jiniulco 

 and Comancho, Zacatecas, Mexico. 



AMPHITORNUS McNeill. 

 Amphitornus ornatus McNeill. 



On a desert hillside and on grassy prairie at Aden this species was 

 found rather numerous on Juty 21, three individuals of each sex being 

 taken. At an elevation of 5,300 feet in the pinon and juniper zone of 

 Dry Canyon, Sacramento Mountains, a single male was taken, July 13, 

 on bare ground among low bushes on the steep canyon wall. At 

 both localities the species was found to be exceedingly wary and diffi- 

 cult to capture. The only previous New Mexican record of the species 

 was of its capture at Little ^fountain, east of Mesilla Park, Donna Ana 

 County, on .July 1. 



CORDILLACRIS Kehn. 

 Cordillacris occipitalis (Thomas). 



On tlie grassy rolling prairie at Aden this species was found fairly 

 plentiful on July 21, a series of fifteen males and ten females being 

 taken. A female of the species was also taken during a train stop at 

 Faywood, Luna County, New Mexico, on July 20. 



An appreciable amount of variation in size is noticeable in both 

 sexes, but particularly in the male, while the general tone of the basic 

 coloration varies from a predominating ochre type to one with gray- 

 brown the main element, with, however, one specimen decidedly brick 

 red in general tone. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



The only previous record of this species in New Mexico is of its occur- 

 rence in Johnson's Basin, Socorro County, where it was taken, June 22, 

 by Townsend. The record of its occurrence at Alaniogordo, New 

 Mexico, made by Hehn,' should be corrected, as a re-exaiuination 

 of the individual there recorded shows it to be the very closeh' allied 

 C. cinerea. 

 Cordillacris cinerea (Bruner). 



Two females, one taken at Aden, July 21, on grassy prairie, and the 

 other from prickly pear (Opuntia sp.) growing on the greasewood covered 

 mesa northeast of El Paso, July 10, are referred to this species. These 

 specimens are very close to C. occipitalis, but seem to be separable 

 from the specimens of the latter by the more protuberant eyes, the 

 narrower fastigium and the more constricted interocular space. How- 

 ever, there is a great amount of variation along these lines in specimens 

 of undoubted occipitalis, and an examination of the type material of the 

 species may show no valid grounds for retaining cinerea as distinct from 

 occipitalis. The color character given by Bruner'" to separate the two 

 species does not appear to be of value, as specimens of occipitalis 

 have the caudal tibiai various shades of testaceous as well as "in part 

 red or reddish." This form has been recorded with some query as to 

 the species from sandhills near Mesilla, New Mexico, June 27-30 

 and Sierra Blanca, Texas, June 26, while material from Alaniogordo, 

 New Mexico, April 9, belongs to this type. 

 Cordillacris apache n. sp. 



Types: cJ^ and 9 ; Silver City. Grant County, Now Mexico. July 20, 

 1907. (Hebard and Rehn.) [Hcbard Collection.] 



Related to C. crentdata (Bruner) and C. pima Rehn. differing from 

 the former in the narrower ventral portion of the head, more retreating 

 facial line, narrower intei'space between the cn'es, narrower tegmina and 

 slightly more elongate caudal limbs; from C. pima it ditTei-s in the 

 shorter caudal limbs, in the more constricted lateral carina of the 

 pronotum and in the rectangulate angle of the fastigium in the female 

 sex. 



In detormining the series representing this species it was found 

 absolutely necessary to ascertain what true C. crenulala was, the origi- 

 nal description of the latter species hardly being explicit enough to 

 place the name on the northern form (Montana to Colorado) or the new 

 one, the difficulty being further augnu-nted by the fact that Bruner 



• Proc. Acad. Xat. Sri. Philn., 1902. p. 718. 

 '« Rial. Cent. Amer.. Ortli.. II, p. 70. 




140 



PROCEEDINGS OF THL ACADKMY OF 



[Feb., 



originally placed Silver City anioiij; his localilit's for rrcnulata. The 

 description of crrnulata was dissected and tabulated in parallel colunias 

 of agreement with the two species in hand, but no definite conclusion 

 could be reached, so in response to an inquiry Prof. Bruner wrote as 

 follows: "The insect called Cordillaa-is crcnulata was described chiefly 

 from west Nebraska specimens, although I had at the time otfier 

 specimens from New Mexico in my collection." In view of this state- 

 ment it seems perfectly legitimate to consider the northern form, 

 which we have before us from McCook and Sioux Counties, Nebraska, 

 and Antonito. Rocky Ford, Colorado Springs and Fort Collins, Colorado, 

 as the true crcnulata. 



Size medium; form rather similar to that of C. creniilala. 

 Head with its dorsal length subequal to that of the pronotum, 

 moderately but regularly ascending to the fastigium when seen 

 from the side, the fastigium slightly descending ; interocular region 

 very slightly (d^) or not at all ( 9 ) narrower than one of the eyes; 

 fastigium with the apical angle rectangulate in both sexes, the disk 

 very slightl}^ depressed immediately caudad of the margin; fastigio- 

 facial angle subrectangulate when seen from the side, face greatly 

 (cJ*) or considerably (9) retreating; ventral portion of the head 

 moderately inflated, not at all (d^) or slightly (9) broader than the 



Fig. 10. — Cordillacris apache n. sp. Lateral view of female type. (X 3.) 



width across the eyes; frontal costa very narrow and subequal dorsad, 

 regularly and considerably expanding ventrad of the antennae, sulca- 

 tion deep dorsad, being very shallow and subobsolete ventrad. Eyes 

 subovate ( c5^) or subtrigonal-ovate ( 9 ) in outline, moderately prominent 

 in both sexes when seen from the dorsum, the length subequal to ( 9 ) or 

 very slightly exceeding {^) the infra-ocular sulcus ; antennsR slightly ( cJ* ) 

 or considerably ( 9 ) exceeding the length of the head and pronotum 

 together, slightly depressed, with a slight ensif orm tendency in the female, 

 apex rather blunt. Pronotum very slightly sellate; cephaUc margin of 

 the dorsum slightly emarginate truncate, caudal margin slightly arcuate 

 {(j) or arcuato-truncate ( 9 ); median carina low and weak, most ap- 




1909.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



141 



V'lfi. 11. — Conlill- 

 (irris ajxirhe ii. sp. 

 Dorsal view of 

 head and prono- 

 tum. (X 3.) 



parent caudad, severed distinctl}' caudad of the middle; lateral cariuae 

 regularly but not greatly converging caudad to the middle of the disk, 

 where they are separated by about half the caudal 

 width, thence more sharply divergent caudad; 

 lateral lobes slightly longer than deep, ventral 

 majgin sinuate arcuato-truncate, ventro-cephalic 

 angle rounded, ventro-caudal angle subrectangu- 

 late. Tegmina rather narrow, slightly ( 9 ) or 

 considerably (o^) exceeding the apex of the abdo- 

 men, but not quite reaching the extremities of 

 the caudal femora, apex narrowly truncate. Inter- 

 space between the mesosternal lobes transverse; 

 interspace between the metasternal lobes longitu- 

 dinal (d^) or subquadrate (9). Cephahc and 

 median limbs C(uite slender, moderately long. 

 Caudal femora in length slightly shorter than 

 the tegmina, slender; caudal tibije about equal 

 to the femora in length, armed with ten to twelve spines. 



General color ochraceous marked with Vandyke brown. Face and 

 mouth parts buff, the frontal costa clay color and a distinct subocular 

 blotch, which is divided by a carinal line of buff, Vandyke brown. 

 Gense, portioas of the pleura and the ventral portion of tiic lateral face 

 of the caudal femora hoary white; ventral portion of the lateral lobes 

 of thej)ronotumpalel)uff ( ? )orb\iffy white ((5^). Eyes ochraceous lined 

 with narrow bars of vandyke brown; antenna? very pale bluish-green, 

 narrowly tipped with buffy, whitish proximad in the female. Postocular 

 bars and their continuations on the lateral lol^es and pleura vandyke 

 brown; a distinct broad median bar is present f)n the doi-suin of the 

 head. Dorsum of the pronotum with buff predominating, the median 

 area somewhat iiifuscated, the usual trigonal caudal blotches vandyke 

 brown. Tegmina with the crenulate maculations of dull wliitish 

 against vandyke brown, the crenulations more numerous in the male 

 than in the female. Caudal femora with the doi-sal jxirtion of their 

 lateral face vandyke brown, the dorsum with three indistinct vandyke 

 brown band.-!, of wliicl\ tii(> proximal is subobliqiir: caiKlai tibiii- dull 

 lavender dist;id and mesad, s{nne tipped with black. 



Mcasur(niriils. 



Length of body. 

 J..ength of pronotum. 

 Length of tegmen. 

 Length of ciiudal fcinnr. 



!».S 

 S.9 



l.S 



■J s 

 i;{ 



11.0 




1-10 PROCEEDINGS OF THK ACADKMV OK ['<'''•, 



originally placed Silver City among his localities for rrenulala. The 

 description of crcnulata was dissected and tabulated in parallel columns 

 of agreement with the two species in hand, but no definite conclusion 

 coiUd be reached, so in response to an inquiry Prof. Bruner wrote as 

 follows: "The insect called Cordillacris crcnulata was described chiefly 

 from west Nebraska specimens, although I had at the time other 

 sfjecimens from New Mexico in my collection." In view of this state- 

 ment it seems perfectly legitimate to consider the northern form, 

 which we have before us from McCook and Sioux Counties, Nebraska, 

 and Antonito. Rocky Ford, Colorado Springs and Fort Collins, Colorado, 

 as the true crcnulata. 



Size medium; form rather similar to that of C. crenulaia. 

 Head with its dorsal length subequal to that of the pronotum, 

 moderately but regularly ascending to the fastigium when seen 

 from the side, the fastigium slightly descending; interocular region 

 very shghtly (c?) or not at all (9) narrower than one of the eyes; 

 fastigium \\\\h. the apical angle rectangulate in both sexes, the disk 

 very slightlj^ depressed immediately caudad of the margin; fastigio- 

 facial angle subrectangulate when seen from the side, face greatly 

 (cJ*) or considerably (9) retreating; ventral portion of the head 

 moderately inflated, not at all (cJ^) or slightly (?) broader than the 



Fig. 10. — Cordillacris apache n. .sp. Lateral view of female type. (X 3.) 



width across the eyes; frontal costa very narrow and subequal dorsad, 

 regularly and considerably expanding ventrad of the antennae, sulca- 

 tion deep dorsad, being very shallow and subobsolete ventrad. Eyes 

 subovate ( c?) or subtrigonal-ovate ( 9 ) in outline, moderately prominent 

 in both sexes when seen from the dorsum, the length subequal to ( 9 ) or 

 very slightly exceeding ( cJ^ ) the infra-ocular sulcus ; antennsR slightly ( d^ ) 

 or considerably ( 9 ) exceeding the length of the head and pronotum 

 together, slightly depressed, with a slight easif orm tendency in the female, 

 apex rather blunt. Pronotum very slightly sellate; cephaUc margin of 

 the dorsum slightly emarginate truncate, caudal margin slightly arcuate 

 (d^) or arcuato-truncate ( 9 ); median carina low and w^eak, most ap- 




1909.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



141 



V'lil. \\. ( ■ordill- 

 (icrix (iparhe n. sp. 

 Dorsal view of 

 head and prono- 

 tum. (X 3.) 



parent caudad, severed distinctly caudad of the middle; lateral carinte 

 regularly but not greatly converging caudad to the middle of the disk, 

 where they are separated by about half the caudal 

 width, thence more sharply divergent caudad; 

 lateral lobes slightly longer than deep, ventral 

 majgin sinuate arcuato-truncate, ventro-cephalic 

 angle rounded, ventro-caudal angle subrectangu- 

 late. Tegmina rather narrow, slightly (?) or 

 considerably (o^) exceeding the apex of the abdo- 

 men, but not quite reaching the extremities of 

 the caudal femora, apex narrowly truncate. Inter- 

 space between the mesasternal lobes transveree; 

 interspace between the metasternal lobes longitu- 

 dinal (d") or subquadrate (9). Cephahc and 

 median linil)S quite slender, moderately long. 

 Caudal femora in length slightly shorter than 

 the tegmina, slender; caudal tibite about equal 

 to the femora in length, armed with ten to twelve spines. 



General color ochraceous marked with Vandyke brown. Face and 

 mouth parts buff, the frontal costa clay color and a distinct subocular 

 blotch, which is divided l)y a carinal line of buff, Vandyke brown. 

 Gense, portioas of the pleura and the ventral portion of the lateral face 

 of the caudal femora hoary white; ventral portion of the lateral lobes 

 of thepronotumpalel)ufT( 5 ) or buflfy white (rj*). Eyes ochraceous lined 

 with narrow bars of vandykc Ijrown; antennse very pale bluish-green, 

 narrowly tipped with buffy, whitish proximad in the female. Postocular 

 bars and their continuations on the lateral lobes and j)leura vandyke 

 brown; a distinct broad median l>ar is present on the doi-suin (»f the 

 head. Dorsum of the pronotum with buff predominating, the median 

 area somewhat infuscated, the usual trigonal caudal blotches vandyke 

 brown. Tegmina with the crenulate macuhitions of dull whitish 

 against vandyke brown, the crenulations more numerous in the male 

 than in the female. Caudal femora with the doi-sal porti(»n of their 

 lateral face vandyke brown, the dorsum with three indistinct vandyke 

 brown band.-!, of wliich the proximal is suboblique; caudal lilti:i' (lull 

 lavender distjid and m(!sad, spine tippctl with ])lack. 



Mrasun ninils. 



Length of body, 

 Length of pronotum. 

 Length of tcgmen. 

 Length of caudal fcinur. 




1 12 PROCEEDINGS OF THK AfADEMY OF [I'ob., 



In addition to the types a series of six adult males, six adtilt females 

 and one female nymph have been examined. Of tiiis representation 

 four nuiles. two females and tiie nymph are from Silver City, July 20; 

 two males and two females from Aden, July 21; one female from the 

 Florida MoimtaiiLs, July 10. and one female from Sjialdinp;, i.una 

 County, New Mexico, July 20. 



In size the specimens are moderately uniform, one or more females 

 being slightly larger than the type, while one male is somewhat smaller 

 than the type of that sex. The coloration exhibits some little varia- 

 tion, but such differences as are seen are chiefly due to intensification 

 or lightening of the general pattern and shades. The antenna; in some 

 specimens are buff'y proximad. 



The habitat of this species at Aden was found to be a grassy rolling 

 prairie, dotted with an extremely scanty and wadely scattered growth 

 of very low mesquite and a few sotols (Dasylirion sp.). The insects 

 were found most plentiful where the grass was most abundant. At 

 Silver City specimens were found in numbers among short grasses 

 on the hillsides. 



PHLIBOSTROMA Scudder. 

 Phlibostroma quadrimaculatum (Thomas). 



An immature specimen of this species was taken at Silver City, July 

 20, in a small patch of short grass. 



This is the fii-st definite record of the species from southern New 

 Mexico. 



ORPHULELLA Giglio-Tos. 

 Orphulella pictarata Scudder. 



A single male of this species was taken at Dunlay, Medina County 

 Texas, during a train stop on July 8. This specimen was found in 

 the same surroundings as Opeia testacea. 



Orphulella pelidna (Burmeister). 



A male and two females of this species were taken on cultivated 

 ground at Albuquerque, September 14. The male and one female 

 are in the brown phase, the remaining female being of the green type. 

 Comparison was made with individuals of the species from Nebraska. 



The only previoas New Mexican records are of captures of the species 

 at Albuquerque and Mesilla. 



DICHROMORPHA Morse. 

 Dichromorpha viridis (Scudder). 



At San Antonio, Texas, July 8, a single female of this species was 

 taken on a lot near the railroad station. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 143 



CHLOEALTIS Harris. 

 Chloealtis abdominalis (Thomas). 



On the edge of a field flanked by a forest of Douglas fir (Pseudotsuga 

 miicronata) at Cloudcroft, one adult male and seven immature speci- 

 mens of this species were taken on Juh' 14. The adult specimen was 

 located by his stridulation, although it was in the middle of the after- 

 noon. The note of this insect was like that of individuals of the same 

 species heard in Michigan. 



When compared with a series of males of the species from Pequaming, 

 Michigan, Yellowstone Park, and Manitou, Colorado, the Cloudcroft 

 specimen is seen to be appreciabl}' smaller, the measurements being 

 as follows: Length of body, 15.7 mm.; length of pronotum, 3.3 mm.; 

 length of tegmen, 8.8 mm.; length of caudal femur, 11.2 mm. 



The previoiLs records of this species in New Mexico are from Beulah, 

 San Miguel County, and Truchas Peak, Rio Arriba-Mora Counties. 



CHORTHIPPUS Eieber. 

 Chorthippus cartipennis (Harris). 



One male and two females of this species were collected at Cloud- 

 croft on July 14 and 15. These specimens were taken in damp grassy 

 situations, the species being by no means common. 



Beulah, San Miguel County, and Aqua Fria Park, Colfa.x County, 

 are the previously known Xew .Mexican localities for the species. 



GOMPHOCERUS Thunbcrg. 

 Gomphooeras clavatas Thomas. 



At Cloudcroft this species was foiuid to be abundant in gras.sy movm- 

 tain meadows, particularly along the edges of the forest. Here a 

 series of fifteen males and sixteen females were taken on July 14 and 15. 

 It wa'< noticed that the species was very hard to find before ten o'clock 

 in the morning, although (juite abundant during the heat of the after- 

 noon. 



The series is quite uniform in .-^ixe, but in color there is in a numl)cr 

 of specimens a pronounced mi.xing and lining with shade-s of brown and 

 ochre which is not seen in the other more uniformly colored indi- 

 viduals. This variable tendency is more apparent in the female sex. 

 None of the in<lividuals from (.'joudcroft present areas or even traces 

 of green in their coloration. A single female from Truchas Peak, 

 New .Mexico, taken August 2, 1902, by W. P. Cockerell, examined in this 

 connection, has consideral)lc green in its coloration. The previous 

 exact New Mexican records for the species were from Cloudcroft and 

 above timber-line. I. '',,000-1 1.000 feet, on Truchas Peak. 




144 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[VvU 



P80L0E8SA Scu.l.icr. 

 Piolo«88a Uxana Scudder. 



If further evidence is needed to support the opinion recently ex- 

 pressed In- the authoi-s {Proc. Acad. Nat. Set. Phila., 1908. jip. 381 -383) 

 regarding tlie impossibility of differentiating the four nominal species 

 of the genus Psoloessa, the one hundred and forty-three specimens 

 examined in this connection furnisiies it, The data here given on the 

 variability in this species should l)c considered supplementaiy to that 

 presented in the paper mentioned above. 



The typical bu^diana type is represented by four specimens, typical 

 ferruginea by nine, typical imiculipennis by eleven and typical texana 

 by eight, a total of twenty-three per cent, of the series, leaving an inter- 

 mediate series of one himdred and eleven specimeas or seventy-seven 

 per cent., divided as follows; 



A. — Sharing characters of buddiana and ferruginea, one individual. 

 B. — Sharing characters of buddiana and macidipennis, forty-seven 



individuals. 

 C. — Sharing characters of ferruginea and maculipennis, fifty-three 



individuals. 

 D. — Sharing characters of maculipennis and texana, four individuals. 

 E. — Sharing characters of ferruginea and texann, one individual. 

 F. — Sharing characters of buddiana, ferruginea and maculipennis, 



five individuals. 



The distribution by localities of the specimens representing the 

 types of the four "species" and the intermediate groups is as follows: 



El Paso is represented by nine cJ*, ten 9 , July 10 and 11 ; slopes of 

 the Franklin Mountains by six d^, seven 9, July 9; Alamogordo by 

 two c?, four ? , July 13; Dry Canyon, Sacramento Mountains, two cJ*, 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 145 



three 9 , July 13 ; Deming. two d', four 9 , July 18; Florida Mountains, 

 two (^ , two 9 , July 19; Aden, twenty-six cJ*, thirty-eight 9 , July 21; 

 Silver City, nineteen z" . seven 9 , Jul}^ 20. At El Paso, Alamogordo 

 and at the foot of the Florida Mountains it was taken from the bare 

 ground in greasewood {Covillea) areas, while in Dry Can\'on, in the 

 Franklin and Florida Mountains, and at Silver City it was taken from 

 canyon and hill slopes usually covered with low vegetation. At Aden 

 the species frequented a variety of habitats, being taken on a rocky 

 hillside, in grass prairie land and from areas of dry grass in sand, being 

 most abundant in the latter situation, while at Deming it was taken 

 on the rabbit-weed and mesquite plain. 



STIRAPLEUKA'i Scudder. 

 Stirapleura pusilla Scudder. 



A series of thirty males and thirteen females are referred to tliis 

 species, which seems to present quite a little variation in minor struc- 

 tural characters and size and to a considerable extent in color. Five 

 males and four females were taken at Silver City, July 20, on rough 

 slopes, the remainder of the series, twenty-five males and nine females, 

 being from Aden, July 21, where the species was found in all the thiee 

 types of surroundings examined, but was noted in greatest numbers 

 in grass prairie. The Silver City specimens are smaller than the Aden 

 individuals, although both series average larger than tiie original 

 measurements. The proportions of an average pair from each locality 

 are as follows: 



AGENEOTETTIX McNeill. 

 Ageneotettiz deoram (.Scudder). 



At Aden, July 21. this species was found in gras.sy prairie land, on 

 a rocky hillside and in a patch of dr>- gra.'^s along the railroad trark. 

 a series of thirteen males, one female and seven nymphs being taken. 



" Stirapleura mefcalero Rehn (Pror. Arnd. Nat. Sci. Philn., 1902, p. 719) is 

 seen on rr-oxamination fif tlu- t}TM' unci romjKirison witli inatrrial now in Ijaiid 

 to lie Pxoloc.ssa tejcana Srinldcr. Tlic oriRinal rffi-n-nce to Stirapleura wa.s caused 

 by the deprfe of dorsal vi.sihility of tlic lateral fovcola', a rharart<T wliirli appears 

 to HH to \n- almf>st wortlile,s.s for .s*'parating the two jrniera. dei)endiiie as it does 

 on the anjrle from wliidi the ln-.-id is viewed. 

 10 




14«> PROCEEDINGS OF THK ACAOKMY OF [I'cb., 



At Silver City, July 20, a single male was taken, while one male and 

 three females were secured at Albuquerque. September 14. 



The All)U(iuerque individuals are quite dull colored, with, however, 

 a longitudinal line present on tlu^ costal areas of the tegmina in thi(>c 

 of the four specimens. 



This species has previously been recorded from Mesilla I'ark and 

 Chaves, New Mexico. 



AULOCARA Scu.lder. 

 Aulooara rufum Scu<lder. 



A single freslily moulted female of this species was taken at Silver 

 City. July 20. It is rather dull in color, somewhat resembling speci- 

 mens from Antonito and Nephista, Colorado, the head, pronotum, 

 pleura and caudal femora being covered with numerous small blotches 

 of olive green. 



The only previous New Mexican record was I.a Cue\'a. (^rgan 

 Mountains, September 3. 



ARPHIA stai. 

 Arphia luteola Scudder. 



A single female taken at Spofford, Texas, July 8, belongs to this 

 species. The disk of the wing is vermilion in color instead of yellow- 

 ish, but there can be no doubt of the specific identity of the specimen. 



Arphia arota Scuddei. 



A male and three females of this species, taken at Fort Wingate, Mc- 

 Kinley County, New Mexico, by John Woodgate, have been examined. 

 The dates represented are April 25, May 11 and August 20, 1908. 

 The specimens have been compared with Beulah, New Mexico, and 

 Jerome, Arizona, material. Three of the four indi\'iduals possess red 

 or reddish wings. 



Arphia teporata Scudder. 



(Jn the dasert slopes of the FrankUn Mountains near El Paso, at 

 elevatioas of from 4,200 to 4,800 feet, this species was found gener- 

 ally distributed and a series of three males and four females were taken 

 on July 9. Two males were also taken on the edge of the mesa near 

 El Paso, July 11, while a single male was taken at 5,300 feet in the 

 Florida Mountaias and one female at Aden, July 21. 



In the Florida Mountains but two specimens were seen, both in 

 dense oak scrub near bare rock slopes, while at Aden a few were seen 

 on the hill visited at that locality, but the species was very wary and 

 difficult to collect. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 147 



CHORTOPHAGA Saussure. 

 Chortophaga viridifasciata (De Geer). 



A single female of this species was taken during a train stop at Con- 

 verse, Bexar County. Texas, July 8. 



ENCOPTOLOPHUS Scudder. 

 Encoptolophus coloradensis Bruner. 



A i)air of this interesting species was taken in dry grass along the 

 railroad tracks at Spofford. Kinney County, Texas, July 8. The species 

 was somewhat plentiful and very swift of flight. 



This is the fii-st record of the species from Texas. 



Encoptolophus texensis Bruner. 



In suitable locations, such as irrigated and grass prairie land, through 

 southern Arizona and New Mexico and western Texas, this species 

 will no doubt be found in fair numljei's. 



In Texas, two males were collected at Spofford, July 8, while a series 

 of thirteen males and eight females were taken, July 10-11, at El Paso, 

 all except one from irrigated land. At All^uquerque three males and 

 eleven females were secured, September 14, on irrigated land, while a 

 single female was attracted to light at Deming, July 20. A pair were 

 taken in grass prairie land at Aden, July 21, while a single female was 

 taken in the greasewood belt at Alamogordo, July 13. 



The specimen from Ysleta, El Paso County, Texas, recorded aj^ E. 

 costalis" proves on re-examination to be E. texensis, wliich was unde- 

 scribed when this record was published. A female specimen taken at 

 Roswell, New Mexico (August, 1902. at light, T. D. A. Cockerell). 

 sliows the presence of the sj^ecies a considerable distance up the Pecos 

 Valley. 



In size there is a considerable amount of individual variation, a mim- 

 ber f)f specimens of each se.x being both larger and smaller than the 

 measurements given by Bruner. The dimensions of several of these 



'■ I'iclui. Pror. Arml. \'nl. Sr!. PhUn.. 1<)02, p. 720. 




148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [ll'l>-, 



Taking as unitvS the two most extensive series here examined, the 

 Kl Paso representation averages slightly larger than that from 

 Albuquerque, but the variation within each is considerable. 



All the specimens examined from Texas and New Mexico arc in a 

 brownish phase, no approach being noticed to the green phase. The 

 Albuquerque and Deming specimens are quite grayish, the Alamo- 

 gordo one reddish and the SpofFord lot quite blackish, but the tegminal 

 pattern is retained by all the individuals examined. 



This species is now known from Carrizo Springs, Spofford, Ysleta 

 and El Paso, Texas; Roswell, Alamogordo, Albuquerque. Mesilla, 

 Aden and Deming, New Mexico; Tucson, Florence, Phoenix and San 

 Bernardino Ranch, Arizona, and southern California. 



In its actions this species is more active than E. sordidus, but much 

 less so than E. costalis. 



HIPPISCUS Saussure. 

 Hippiscus oorallipes (Haldeman). 



On the bare spots of an irrigated field along the Rio Grande below 

 El Paso, two males and two females of this species were taken on July 

 11. At Aden. July 21, three of each sex were taken in all the situations 

 found at that locality, but it was most commonly found in grass prairie 

 land, where the species was veiy wary. All of the specimens have 

 the internal faces of the caudal femora red or pinkish-red except 

 the females from El Paso, one of which has the same areas deep blue, 

 the other pvu'plish. 



Hippiscas cupidus Scudder. 



Three males of this species have been examined from Fort Wingate, 

 New Mexico, taken April 26, 1908, by John Woodgate. A compari- 

 son with males from Jerome, Arizona, reveals no differences worthy 

 of mention. 



The range of this species now extends from Jerome and Prescott, 

 Arizona, to northwestern New Mexico. The record of H. leprosus 

 from the Pinal Mountains, Arizona," belongs to this species. 



Hippiscus aflfrictns Scudder. 



A single female of this species was taken at Fort Wingate, New 

 Mexico, June 2, 1908, by John Wingate. 



The range of the species is extended coasiderably to the southward 

 by this record, which is the first of the species from New Mexico; Range- 

 ley, on the lower White River, western Colorado, being the nearest 

 locality from which it had previously been recorded, 



^Canad. Entom., XXXIII, p. 102. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 149 



DISSOSTEIKA Scudder. 

 Dissosteira Carolina (Linnaeus). 



Two females of this species were taken on cultivated ground at 

 Albuquerque, September 14. 



SPHAEAGEMON Scudder. 

 Spharagemon collare (Scudder). 



A pair of this species taken at Albuquerque, September 14, on irri- 

 gated land are in the collection. They are closer to race angiistipennis 

 than to the other forms of the species. 



In this location this species was extremely difficult to capture, par- 

 tially on account of its powerful flight and its extreme wariness. This 

 is the only locality in Xcw Me.xico from which the species has been 

 recorded. 



TOMONOTUS Saussure. 

 Tomonotaa azteoas Saussure. 



Apparent!}' this species is generally distributed over that portion 

 of western Te.xas between San Antonio and the Pecos River, specimens 

 before as being from Lacoste, Medina County (Id*), Hondo, Medina 

 County (1 9 ). D'Hanis, Medina County (2 d*, 2 ? ). Sabinal, Uvalde 

 County (1 d^), Spofford, Kinney County (2 d), and Samuels. Valverde 

 County (2 9 ), all taken during train stops on July 8. 



The Samuels specimens are quite pale, while two of the D'llanis 

 series are quite uniform blackish-gray. The Sabinal, Spofford and 

 Hondo individuals are a.s a rule quite dark, the Sabinal and Hondo 

 representatives with the tegminal markings distinct, while the Lacoste 

 specimen tends toward ferruginous. 



The senior author's Lactista boscanus^* from Ysleta, El Paso County, 

 Texas, is referable to this species. As shown by CaudelU' the speci- 

 m«^as recorded l)y Scudder and Cockerell as Lactista pdlcpulus also 

 belong to this form. 



Tiie range of this species in the United States is now known to 

 extend from central Texas to south-central Aiizoiia, north to the 

 Organ Mountains of New Me.xico. 



MESTOBREOMA Scudder. 

 Mestobregma fasoifrons (St&l). 



Five males and one female of this form were taken at Spofford, Texas, 

 July <S; one male and two females also being taken at Dunlay, Medina 

 County, Texas, the same date. 



»« Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.. 1902, p. 721. 

 '• Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus.. XXVIII, p. 469. 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1'"<'1)., 



Mestobregma obliterata Hnmor. 



A siiiglo feinalo from AlhiKiuorquc. Scptemhor 14. is roforrod to this 

 species. 



Hestobregma plattei (Thomas). 



Three males and one female of this species were taken at Silver City, 

 July 20; two females also being included in the series from the lower 

 slopes of the Florida Mountains, taken July 19. At Silver City it was 

 captured on low rounded hills, while in the Florida range it was found 

 sparingly on bare precipitous rocks, where it Was noticed to be very 

 \igoroiis and wary. 



These specimens show some approach to the closely allied M. rubri- 

 penne from southern Ai'izona, but the general coloration is nearer 

 plaUei, while the slender caudal femora are not at all like the compara- 

 tively robust ones of ruhripenne. 



The range of this species is now known to extend from Wyoming 

 south along the eastern side of the Rocky Mountains to Colorado, 

 occurring also at Magdalena. Xcw Mexico, and the localities given above. 



DEROTMEMA Scudder. 

 Derotmema laticinctum Scudder. 



This characteristic species of the desert regions of southern New 

 Mexico and Arizona was captured at all the desert localities visited in 

 southern New Mexico and at El Paso. In the vicinity of El Paso it 

 was taken, July 10, 11 and 17, on irrigated land along the Rio Grande 

 (1 d^, 3 9), at the edge of the mesa, (1 c?), in the greasewood belt 

 (1 9 ), in bare desert east of city (2 d^, 2 9 ), on desert hillside (2 c?, 

 1 9 ), on sand with a sparse gro\vth of dry grass (17 d^, 8 9 ). At 

 Alamogordo a single male was attracted to light, July 12: three males 

 were collected in the rabbit-weed and mesquite plain around Deming, 

 July 18; one male and two females secured at Silver City, July 20, and 

 eight males and six females taken at Aden, July 21. 



In the irrigated tract near El Paso the species was fairly conmion on 

 the barer spots, usually in colonies, while at the foot of the mesa it was 

 not common on pieces of bare ground. At Aden the species was found 

 chiefly in grass prairie land, but in other situations as well, such as on 

 cinders along the railroad track where it was inactive until the sun had 

 wanned the ground, when the species became very active. 



The El Paso specimens from sand area with dry grass are the largest 

 of the species seen, a typical male and female measuring as follows: 



cJ' 9 



Length of body, 15.2 mm. 25.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum 3 " 4.8 " 



Length of tegmen, 17.5 " 24.5 " 



Length of caudal femur, 10.2 " 14.2 " 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 151 



The Silver City- male and the three indi\-iduals of that sex from 

 Deming are quite small when compared with the El Paso series. 



The series from sand areas at El Paso is iniiformly more a-shy gray 

 than any other specimeas of the species examined. The Aden series 

 is quite dark when compared witii the El Paso representation, while 

 one female is strongly washed with rose red, particularly on the dorsum 

 of the pronotum where the pink color is almost pure. The remarks 

 previously made by the authors*^ regarding the -\-ariability of the color- 

 ation of the anal area *of the tegmen and of the fuscous bar of the wings 

 in this species also appl}" to the series examined in this connection. 



This is the first record of the species from the State of Texas. 



TRIMEROTROPIS Still. 

 Trimerotropis texana (Bruner). 



This interesting species was taken at all the purel}- Lower Sonoran 

 localities visited in southern New Mexico and extreme western Texas. 

 At El Paso it was found, July 10 and 11, rather sparingly in the liroken 

 country at the foot of the mesa nortliea.st of the city, on the bare spots 

 in the greasewood-covered mesa and in a dry stream bed in the irri- 

 gated section along the Rio Grande, six males and one female being 

 taken in the several situations. A single female was secured in the 

 street under an arc hght the evening of July 12 at Alamogordo, while 

 one male was captured among greasewood at 4,900 feet elevation in Dry 

 Canyon, Sacramento Mountains, July 13. At Aden, Juh' 21, in gra.ss 

 prairie land and in dry grass, five males and three females were secured, 

 while a single male was taken at Lanark. Donna Ana Covmty, New 

 Me.xico, during a train stop on July 18. Three males and Iwo females 

 were secured in the yucca-dotted sand waste along the Mimhies River, 

 north of Deming, July IS. This species wa'-< always found s])aringly and 

 specimens were invariably collected singly. Although mucli slower of 

 flight than T. vincidata, this species has a peculiar habit of (Iclaying its 

 flight until the net had i)a.ssed over it, making it more diUicult to 

 capture. Protective coloration appears to be a consideraljle factor 

 in the life of individuals of this species, its habitat being the barest 

 spots to be fountl in the region in which it occui's. 



There is considerable variation in size, even in sjx'cimcns from the 

 same environment, and the coloration exhibits a tendency toward 

 predominating grayish-white tones in one direction and rcdchsh- 

 ochraceous in the other. The specimen from Lanark is ochraccou.s- 

 buff in the general tone of all except the tcgmina. 'i'hc caudal angle 



'• Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1908, p. 388. «^ 




152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [l'\'I). 



of the disk of the pronotiim varirs from acute to obtvise-angulate, 

 though by far the greater majority of the specimens have it rectangu- 

 late. 



Previously known only from El Paso, Texas; Mesilla, Mesilla Park 

 and the region about La^ Cruces, New Mexico, this species is now known 

 to range north in the Otero liasin to at least as far as Alamogordo and 

 west at least to Deming. 



Trimerotropis fascicula McNeill. 



A pair of this species was taken at Albuquerque, September 14, 

 wliile a single male was secured on the greasewood-covered mesa north- 

 east of El Paso, July 10. The Albuquerque individuals were taken 

 on dry ground near the river bottom. The tegminal bars are well 

 defined in all three specimens. 



Trimerotropis modesta Bruner. 



A single freshly transformed female taken on the edge of the mesa 

 near El Paso, July 11, is referred tentatively to this species. On 

 account of its condition the wdng membranes are quite delicate and 

 the coloration very weak, but it appears to represent this species, 

 although considerably larger than the original measurements and the 

 specimens available for comparison. 



Length of body, 30.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 7 " 



Length of tegmen, 34 " 



Length of caudal femur, 17 " 



Trimerotropis laticincta Saussure. 



Of this rather striking species a single female was taken, July 11, at 

 El Paso, and two males and one female at Deming, July 18. The 

 El Paso indi\adual was collected on the rough slopes at the foot of 

 the mesa, while the Deming specimens were taken in the yucca-dotted 

 sand waste along the dry bed of the Mimbres. 



The wing-band in these specimens varies from a third to sHghtly 

 more than a third the length of the wing. The ulnar spur is very 

 short and sometimes hardly evident. The species is exceedingly 

 vigorous and wary. 

 Trimerotropis rubripes Rehn. 



This interesting species, previously known only from the unique 

 type from Albuquerque, is now known to range southward along the 

 Ri(j Grande \'alley to El Paso and also eastward and westward over 

 a good portion of the Eastern or Chihuahuan Desert tract. Near El 

 Paso the species was found sparingly on bare patches among low weeds 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 153 



along the river bank in irrigated ground below the city. Here on July 

 10 and 11 four males and five females were taken. A single female 

 was taken imder a street arc light at Alamogordo. July 12, while one 

 male was captured in gra.ss prairie land at Aden. July 21. 



This seri&s is quite uniform in size. While but little color variation 

 is noticeable, one female from El Paso is as reddish in general tone as 

 the type, but all the other specimens are more grayish. There is some 

 little variation in the intensity of the subobsolete tegminal bars, and 

 tlip wing band also appeal's more blackish than the type. 

 Trimerotropis vincalata Scuililer. 



At every locality ^•isited in New Me.xico and around El Paso this 

 species was jjresent. From an elevation of less than 1,000 feet at 

 Spofford. Texas, to 8,700 feet at Cloudcroft, every locality yielded 

 this form in greater or less abundance. The series of 112 specimens 

 is distributed as follows: Spofford, Texas, Juh' 8, 1 ? ; near Pecos 

 High Bridge, Valverde County, Texas, July 8, 1 d" ; El Paso, July 10-1 1, 

 24 cJ*, 15 ? ; Franklin Mountaias. July 9, 7 cJ^, 5 ? ; Alamogordo, July 

 12-13, 3 (5", 1 2 ; Cloudcroft, July 14, 1.5, 4 d", 3 9 ; Aden, July 21, 

 27 d", 8 ? ; Deming, July 18, 1 ? ; Florida Mountains, July 19, 1 d", 1 9 ; 

 Silver City, July 20, 3 d", 1 9 ; Albuquerque, September 14, 4 d*, 2 9 . 



In the vicinity of El Paso, where the greatest variety of conditions 

 was encountered, the species was found on the greasewood-covered 

 mesa, the rugged slopes of the Franklin Mountains, the broken area 

 at the foot of the mesa and on bare spots in the irrigated region along 

 the Rio Grande. At Deming the mesquite and rabl)it-weed jilain 

 harbored this species, while in the Florida Mountains it occurred on 

 the rugged lower slopes. At Cloudcroft it was found unconmion in 

 meadow land and along the edge of the conifer forest, wiiile at Alamo- 

 gordo it was found in the greasewood area east of the town and 

 around arc lights at nigiit. Cultivated ground was frequented at 

 .\lbuquer(|ue and lugged hillsides at Silver City, while all situations 

 yielded it at Aden. 



The majority of the El Paso specimens are slightly more grayish 

 than the others in the series examined, the contrast of the tegminal 

 bars being more decided, although this latter feature is so variable as 

 to be worth nothing more than passing notice. 

 Trimerotropis cyaneipennii Hnmcr. 



On the very steep rocky slopes of the Florida Mountains this species 

 occurred sjiaringh', two specimens, a male and female, being taken. 

 It haunted the same jumble of boulders and precipitous exposures as 

 M ( slohrcgma plattci and was equally wary and vigorous, lli? male 




154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF' [Feb., 



has the tegiiiinal bars strongly marked, much as foiiiul in iiulividuals 

 of tliat sex from the Huachuca Mountains, while tlie fenuile is pulcr, 

 but is similar to a specimen of that se.x from the latter locality. A 

 single female of this species was also taken on (Jrand \'iew Point at 

 Cloudcroft. July 16, while an individual of the same sex from Fort 

 Wingatc, New Mexico, taken August 10 by John Woodgate, has also 

 been examined. The disk of the wing is very pale greenish-blue in 

 the Cloutlcroft male, glaucous blue in the Florida Mountains male, 

 campanula blue in the Florida Mountains female. 



This species is now knowTi to occur in suitable surroimdings in New 

 Mexico, in the Organ Mountains at about 5,700 feet, at 8,000 feet in the 

 White Mountains, at 5,400 feet in the Florida Mountains ; in Arizona at 

 Flagstaff, in the Grand Canyon from 3,000 to 7,000, in Oak Creek 

 Canyon, at Prescott and in the Huachuca range. 



CIRCOTETTIX Scu.l.ler. 

 Cirootettiz undulatus (Thomas). 



It is very hard to undei-stand Bruner's statement" that "this locust 

 is partial to bare, more or less alkaline ground, and for that reason is 

 found throughout the more arid regions wherever suitable localities 

 occur." Our experience with the species in Colorado, New Mexico 

 and Arizona shows its range to be chiefly in the Transition, Canadian 

 and Hudsonian zones, by no means in the "more arid" regioas, fre- 

 quenting often "sla.shings" or cut areas in the forest region still covered 

 with the d(5bris left by the lumberman. Here it delights in performing 

 its interesting aerial dance, ascending as much as seventy feet in the 

 air, and hovering there for some minutes, keeping up its continual 

 clatter. Open hillsides in the park-like glade region of the higher 

 ranges are much frequented by these insects, and when the sun has 

 warmed them after the chill of the night they proceed with their regular 

 clattering music. 



At Cloudcroft, on July 14 and 15, this species was found numerous 

 in several situations, the greatest number being taken on the hillside 

 of James Canyon, where quite a colony was located and where their 

 clatter was continuous. In all a series of ten males and eleven females 

 was taken, comparatively little difference in size being exhibited by 

 the sexes, although in color the males are more blackish than the 

 females. 



It is interesting to note that when a series of forty-nine specimens 

 from Qoudcroft and Beulah, New Mexico, is compared with one of 



" Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., II, p. 18.3. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 155 



seventeen from the Grand Canyon region, the New Mexican series is 

 seen to have the caudal angle of the disk of the pronotum more acute 

 in both sexes. 



HADROTETTIX Scudder. 

 Hadrotettiz trifasciatus (Say). 



A single male of this species was secured on a rugged hillside near 

 Silver City, July 20. It is a very small specimen. 



ANCONIA Scudder. 

 Anconia cseraleipennis Bruner. 



This most interesting species, which' was described from a single 

 female from Hawthorne, Nevada, is represented by two males and 

 seven females from the vicinity of El Paso. When compared with the 

 brief original description of the species the specimens agree fully, and 

 as a series show no differences worth noting, except a lightening or 

 darkening of the cinereous base color. 



One of the rather striking features of this species is the subinfiated 

 disk of the prozona and metazona, while the principal sulcus is deeply 

 impressed and the median carina elevated or subtectate on the cephalic 

 portion of the prozona. The ease with which this species in life loses 

 its caudal limbs is remarkable. 



Two females were taken on the mesa at the east base of the south 

 peak of the Frankhn Mountains, July 9; one male and two females 

 were taken along the edge of the mesa, July 11 ; while one male and 

 three females were secured in the irrigated section along the Rio Grande 

 on the same date. 



HELIASTUS Saussure. 

 Heliastus aridus (Hnmer; 



This characteristic desert species was taken at El l'a.<(», Alamognnio, 

 Silver City and Deming. in all of which localities it w;v< founil on rocky 

 areas or bare spot.s between the greasewooil or niesquite bushes. At 

 El Paso, July 9-11, it was taken on the mesa, the broken edge of the 

 mesa and on the slop(»s of the Franklin Mountains, a scries of fifteen 

 males and fourteen females being collected. 'Jliree nuiles were secured 

 in suitable surroundings in the mesquite and ral)bit-weed plain at 

 Deming. July IS; a pair at Alainogordo, July 13, in thegreasewood belt, 

 and an immature female at Silver City, July 20. 



riie Deming individuals have hoary white very prominent in their 

 coloration, while several of the 1]1 Pa'^o series have a strong bluish-gray 

 tendencv. ^ 




15G PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADIOMY OF [1'«'''m 



PHRYNOTETTIX Clovor. 

 Phrynotettix verruculatus Ihlor. 



A sin<rle female wliich was taken on a bare spot of red earth in grass 

 prairie land at Aden, July 21, belongs to this species. The coloration 

 of the specimen resembles that of the surroundings in which it was 

 taken. The specimen measures as follows: Length of body, 35 mm.; 

 length of pronotum, 16; greatest doi-sal width of pronotum, 1 1 ; exposed 

 length of tegmen, 7; length of caudal femur, 10. One of the charac- 

 tei's separating this species from P. magnus (Thomas) from southern 

 Arizona is the more compressed and deeply sulcate inter-antcnnal 

 portion of the frontal costa. 



The records of this species are from the Fecos River in Texas or New 

 Mexico; Las Cruces, La Cueva, Organ Mountains, Taos Valley and 

 Aden, New Mexico, and Phoenix, Arizona. 

 Phrynotettix robustus (Bruner). 



A single female of this species was collected on the sunnnit of a boul- 

 der-covered hill at the foot of the mesa at El Paso, July 11. The 

 specimen was squatted motionless on a large pebble like a toad. 



This species is now known from localities in the Otero Basin 

 (Alamogordo), Rio Grande Valley (El Paso, Las Cruces and Lake 

 Valle}') and Southwestern Arizona. 



SCHISTOCERCA St!Ll. 

 Schistoceroa alutacea (Harris). 



A single female from Albuquerque, taken September 14 in the culti- 

 vated section along the Rio Grande, is referred to this species. It 

 has the caudal tibiae extremely dark and in this respect it approaches 

 »S. obscura, but on comparison with specimens of S. alutacea, obscura 

 and venusta its most intimate relationship is seen to be with alutacea. 

 The metazona is well supplied with fair-sized spots of yellowish, similar 

 to those frequently noticed in S. venusta. and more rarely in a weaker 

 form in S. alutacea. 



The previous New Mexican records of this species are from Las Cruces 

 and the vicinity of Mesilla, its known distribution in the territory being 

 in the bottom lands of a portion of the Rio Grande Valley. 



Schistoceroa shoshone (Thomas). 



This powerful species was fovmd at both El Paso and Albuquerque, 

 two males and two females being taken at the former locality and four 

 males and two females at the latter. At Albuquerque, September 14, 

 the species was taken in the cultivated area along the river, while at 

 El Paso one pair was taken from tall green weeds on irrigated land, 

 Jul}' 11, and the other pair was captured, Jul}' 17, in the mesquite- 

 dotted sand waste east of the town, in which latter situation the species 

 was plentiful but very wary. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 157 



CAMPYLACANTHA Scudder. 

 Campylacantha lamprotata'* n. sp. 



Type: c?; Hijito,Valverde County, Texas. JiilyS, 1907. (M.Hebaid.) 

 [Hebard Collection.] 



Related to C. vegana Scudder and CockerelP^ from Las Vegas, New 

 Mexico, with a topotj^pic female of which it has been compared, but 

 differing in the distinctly lanceolate tegmina, which are attingent and 

 nearly twice as long as the dorsum of the pronotum, the more robust 

 caudal femora, the substrangulate pronotum which has the caudal 

 margin of the disk more decidedly angulate, the nearly straight ventral 

 margin of the cerci and a number of features of the coloration. 



Size medium; form moderately robust; surface of the pleura and 

 metazona of the pronotum punctate, the greatest portion of the body 

 covered with long whitish haire. Head with the occiput arcuate, but 

 hardly elevated doi-sad of the level of the pronotum, the interocular 



Fig. 12. — CampyUicnnllui IdmproUitti n. sp. Lateral view of type, (x 3.) 



region and the fastigium rather strongly decUvent; space between the 

 eyes very slightly narrower than the inter-antcnnal portion of the 

 frontal costa; fa.stigiuni of moderate width, rather shallowly but 

 distinctly excavated, the margins distinct; frontal costa slightly 

 expanded between the antennaj otherwise subequal, biseriate punctate 

 dorsad, distinctly sulcate ventrad of the ocellus; face appreciably 

 retreating; eyes moderately i)rominent, ovate in outline, iialf again as 

 long as the infraocular sulcus; antennic distinctly longer than the head 

 and pronotum together, very slightly thickened distad. Pronotum 

 with the greatest (caudal) width of the doi-sum contained slightly more 

 than one and one-half times in the length; cephalic margin of the disk 

 slightly arcuate, caudal margin obtuse-angulate with th(> angle well 



'» Aafiirpora-a, most brillianl. \ 



" Proc. Davenp. Acatl. SH., TX. p. 40. 




loS 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[l-Vh., 



Fig. 13. — Campi/lncdn- 

 Iha lamprotatn n. sp. 

 Lateral outline of 

 apex of abdomen. 

 (X 6.) 



roundod; jimzdiin distinctly loiisor than the motiizona, the former 

 with a very weak median carina c(>phah\d and the metazona with a 

 very distinct but shijhtly ele\ated one; hiteral lobes distinctly longer 

 than deep, all the angles obtuse: transvei'se sulci of the whole prono- 

 tum well iiupressed. Tegmina hardly exceediitg the head and j)rono- 

 tum in length, the greatest width slightly proximad of the middle, 

 distal portion tapering the apex narrowly oblique sul)truncate; 

 sutural margins overlapping. Wings equal to the tegniina in length. 

 Prosternal spine strongly retrorse, conical, rather blunted ; interspace 

 between the mesosternal lobes decidedly longitudinal, the median 

 width not a third the length of the same, 

 the angles of the lobes well rounded ; metasternal 

 lobes attingent. Abdomen slightly compressed, 

 carinate dorsad; fvuTula hardly indicated — 

 mere broad areas with a hardly arcuate caudal 

 margin; supra-anal plate slightly produced 

 trigonal, apex very narrowly roimded, median 

 sulcus indicated only on the proximal iialf, 

 there deep and well impressed; cerci tai)cring 

 in the proximal half, subequal distad and very 

 slightly wider than half the basal width, the ventral margin hardly 

 arcuate, the apex sul)acute and not exceeding the apex of the supra- 

 anal plate; subgenital plate moderately produced and acute when 

 seen from the side, the subapical tubercle distinct. Cephalic and 

 :nedian femora considerably bowed and inflated. Caudal femora 

 robust, the greatest width contained three and one-half times in the 

 length of the same, the tips considerably exceeding the apex of the 

 abdomen; caudal tibite armed on the external margin with ten to 

 eleven spines, on the internal with eleven. 



General color pale apple-green, becoming yellowish on the pleura, 

 abdomen and venter, marked with bice-green. Face 

 of the general color, the gena; slightly yellowish, w^hile 

 the occiput is pure lemon yellow, a distinct median 

 occipital bar and much less distinct postocular 

 bars bice green; eyes burnt umber; antenna? Chinese 

 f)range, the two proximal joints greenish-yellow. 

 Pronotum with the dorsum bice green, the lateral 

 angles irregularly marked with dull lemon-yellow; 

 the lateral lobes clouded with yellowish except for 

 a clear bice green patch dorsad on the prozona. 

 Tegmina bice green with yellowish-green veins. 

 Apex of the abdomen decidedly yellowish. Cephalic and median 



Fig. 14. — Catnpi/la- 

 canlha lamprotata 

 n. sp. Dorsal out- 

 line of apex of ab- 

 domen. (X 6.) 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 159 



femora pale Chinese orange with a narrow distad area of bice green; 

 cephalic and median tibiae of the general color. Caudal femora of the 

 general color, but rather more yellowish, having a number of bars of bice 

 green, one imperfect proximal one hardly represented on the external 

 face, one premedian, one postmedian and one apical (genicular), 

 these being well indicated dorsad and less laterad, the ventral face 

 uniform greenish-yellow, where the bars cross the lateral carinse there 

 Is a tendency to glaucous, which is also found on the distal portion 

 of the genicular region; caudal tibia? glaucous blue with a poorly 

 defined pale pregenicular annul us, spines very pale glaucous with 

 black tips. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 20 mm. 



Length of pronotum 4.8 " 



Lengtli of tognion 9 " 



Lengtli of caudal foiiuu', 12 " 



The type is the only specimen of this beautiful species seen by us, 

 antl wa.'S taken from a mesquite which had recently been drenched by 

 heavy rain. Xo time was available for further search, as our stay 

 was limited to a brief train stop. 



HESPEROTETTIX Scuflder. 

 Hesperotettix viridis (Thoma.s). 



( )f tliis beautiful species a series of seventy specimens is contained 

 in the collection, of which fifty-three are males, twenty-two females 

 and five immature individuals. The fondne-ss of this species for the 

 patches and larger areas of raijl)it weed (Isocoma hctcropkylla) is very 

 marked, and it usually occui-s in abundance where that plant is present. 

 Often in patches of this plant one would notice several specimens of this 

 species sitting on the summit of a single clump. 



At Deming it was very abundant on its food-plant on Ixith .•^idcs of 

 the dry bed of the Mimbres, a series of forty-five nuiles, eighteen females 

 and four nymphs being taken July 18. It also occurred in great num- 

 bers in suitable locations between the town and the Florida Mountains, 

 while at 5,000 feet in a canyon in the Florida range it was very scarce, 

 one male and two females l)eing taken. At El I'aso it wtus taken in the 

 low country along the Rio (irande, four males and two females being 

 .secured on July IF On the usual food-plant at Aden, July 21. one 

 male and one female were taken, while one adult male and one nymph 

 were collected at Silver City, July 20. 



Of this large series thirty show no distinct bhickisji markings on or 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [P'eb., 



in the transverse sulci of the dorsum of the pronotum. although these 

 are strongly pencilled in others. Of the Dcming scries of sixty-three 

 adults twenty-tlu-ee are without the blackish pencilling. The Deming 

 series also contains one specimen in a brownish phase, while four others 

 from the same locality approach it more or less closely. The red pre- 

 genicular annulus is present in every adult in the series, in by far the 

 majority of the specimens very strongly indicated. 



There is a considerable amount of individual variation in size, even 

 in specimens from the same immediate locality, but even the largest 

 specimens do not approach the robust, closely allied Mexican //. 

 7ncndionalis. Several specimens from eastern Colorado (Lamar, 

 Holly and Greeley), examined in connection with the New Mexican 

 material, have the caudal femora very robust. 



a:OLOPLUS Scudder. 

 folopluB elegans Scudder. 



This variable species, w'hich at present is only known from localities 

 in the Rio Grande Valley, was taken in numbers at El Paso, July 10, 

 11 and 17. It was found in greatest abundance in bottom land along 

 the river, where it frequented the screw bean or tornillo {Prosopis 

 odnrata) and adjacent weedy areas, a series of sixteen males and nine 

 females being taken. Along the edge of the mesa a single pair was 

 taken, while the mesquite-covered sand desert east of the tow^n furnished 

 four males and one female. 



In size there is a considerable amount of variation, so much so in 

 fact that at first glance at a number of males of the species one would 

 imagine they had two forms before them. This variation does not 

 appear to be correlated with any particular environment or with tlie 

 color phase of the individual. The extremes of the series measure as 

 follows : 



mm. 



As show^n by the above measurements the greatest amount of varia- 

 tion is exhibited by the male, although that noticed in the female is 

 quite perceptible. 



The form of the male cerci is rather variable, in many specimens these 



* Abdomen compressed. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



appendages being slenderer and not as robust distad as figured by 

 Scudder, although the general form remains essentially the same. 

 There is also a slight variation in the shape of the tubercle of the sub- 

 genital plate. 



In color, as pointed out by Scudder and Cockerell,^^ there is pro- 

 nounced variation, although its de.^cri])tion may be simplified by con- 

 sidering the green form one extreme and the full brownish and ochre 

 form the other, leaving numerous specimens as intermediates between 

 the two. The full green phase, having all the dark markings green 

 and the lighter ones yellowish-green, is represented in our material 

 by five males and one female, although closely approached by five 

 other females. The full brown phase is repre.'^ented by six males and 

 one female, the remainder of the series being intermediate in coloration. 

 The green phase was noticed chiefly among tall green weeds, while 

 the brown phase was usually found in much fewer numl)ers upon the 

 tornillo or screw bean. The tegmina are distinctly though not sharply 

 maculat-e in eight specimens and unicoloroas in six, the remainder 

 having the anal vein marked more or less completely with a pale line. 

 There is also a considerable amount of variation in the dci)th of the 

 glaueou'^ color of the caudal tibia?. 



The species has been recorded from I.as Cruces and Mesilla Park, 

 Donna Ana County, New Mexico. 



MELANOPLUS StftI 

 Melanoplus bowditchi Scmlfler. 



This sj)ecies is represented in the collectioii l)y three males and eight 

 females, taken as follows: Kl Ta-so, July 10 and 17 (1 cT, 2 9); 

 Aden, July 21 (1 c?, 4 $ ); Albuquerque, September 14 (1 ? ); Deming, 

 July 18(1 C? , 19). At El Pa<5o it wa.s taken at the edge of the grease- 

 wood-covered mesa and from mesfjuite growing in the sandhill country 

 east of the city. It fref|uented cultivated ground at Albuciuenjuc, was 

 taken in grtu«9 prairie huid at Aden and frcqiu ntcd the mesquite and 

 rabbit-weed plain at Deming. 



In actions the species is extremely vigorous and ahit . usually making 

 long flights. liut one of the specimens approaches anyway closely the 

 type of coloration seen in individuals of the sprci(»s from eastern Colo- 

 rado and southwestern Nebraska, this individual being from mcsfiuite 

 at VA l'a.s(). The majority of the series are duller with innber browns 

 the predominating colors, the post ocular bar not strongly markdl in 

 two specimens and nearly obsolete \\\ (dif. The l)ars on the dorsum 



" Proc. Davenp. Acad. Sci., W, pi». 41-42. , 



11 




162 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1-Vh., 



of the caudal femora are more or less distinct in all hut one individual 

 which has them obsolete. 



In size the specimens are decidedly laru(M- than individuals from 

 Colorado ami Nebraska, tis the fDllowinu, measurements show: 



The previous records of this species from New Mexico are from 

 Belen, \'alencia County, Sabinal, Socorro County, Las Cruces, Donna 

 Ana County and Chaves, Mclvinley County. 



Melanoplus herbaceus Bruner. 



This variable species is represented In' a series of forty-nine males 

 and thirtj'-three females taken at El Paso, Albuquerque and Alamo- 

 gordo. At El Paso it was found in a variety of habitats : ongreasewood 

 on the .slopes of the Franklin Mountains (July 9, 1 d^, 2 9 ), on grease- 

 wood on the mesa and at the edge of the same (July 10 and 11, 4 J*, 

 1 $ ), on mesquite growing on the sandhills east of the city (July 17, 

 4 d*, 2 9 ). and on irrigated land along the Rio Grande below the city 

 (July 10 and 11, 38 c?, 25 9 ). In the sandhill region the species was 

 ^■ery wary and usually flew into the most inaccessible j^ortions of the 

 thickets of mesquite, while along the ri\'er it was plentiful but equally 

 hard to capture. Two males and two females were secured in culti- 

 vated land at Albuquerque, September 14, while a single female was 

 attracted to light at Alamogordo, Juh' 12. 



In size there is a considerable amount of individual variation, as 

 the following measurements of extremes of the series from along the 

 Rio Grande at El Paso will show: 



The structure of the male cerci and of the furcula exhibits a con- 

 siderable amount of variation in this species, about half of the males 

 examined showing at least some slight approach to the form called 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 163 



flavescens by Scudder. A number of specimens are typical of fiaves- 

 cens as far as the cerci and furcula are concerned, but a careful study 

 of this large series of eighty-one specimens shows that the slight genital 

 charactei-s and the color of the tips of the anteimae, of the pronotuin 

 and of the caudal tibiae, given specific importance by Scudder to separ- 

 ate .1/. herhaceiis and flavescens, are by no means specific and can be 

 considered only individual, the extremes being connected by a number 

 of intermediates. 



In color we find two quite distinct extremes connected by inter- 

 mediates, one extreme being uniform light green with the postocular 

 bar subobsolete or entirely lacking, the other various shades of brown, 

 touched with yellowish around the head and along the ventral border 

 of the postocular bar which is quite distinct. Numerous intermediates 

 show the postocular bar distinct with green the general color, others 

 with yellowish and yellowish-brown the general color. The antcnntp 

 are usually not infuscate at the tips in the green phase, the majority 

 of the other specimens haxdng a more or less distinct apical inf uscation. 

 The caudal tibia? are generally some shade of glaucous, varying con- 

 sideral)ly in depth, but a few specimens have a decided greenish tone 

 to these parts. 



The species has previoush^ been recorded from El Paso, Texas, and 

 Las Cruces, Mesilla Park and Albuquerque, New Mexico, while Scudder 

 and Cockerell have assigned specimens from Mesilla and Mesilla Park 

 to M. flavescens. 



MelanopluB glanoipes (Scmlder). 



At Kl Pu.s(^ this peculiar species was found in small nimil)er.s in 

 thickets of screw bean or tornillo growing in the low ri^•er-land, where 

 on July 10 one male and three females were taken. Two females were 

 also secured on July 10 and 11 from mcsquitc, while one male anil three 

 females were taken, July 17, from mesquite thickets in the sand region 

 east of the city. A single female was taken at Clin, I'valde County, 

 Texas, July 8, in a damp weedy location. The species is a vigorous 

 one and at El Paso it was extremely difficult to capture, owing to its 

 habit of seeking shelter by retiring to the thickest portion of the 

 inestjuite or tornillo bush on which it was found, in such surroundings 

 a net was useless and work with the hands j)aid a jienalty of thorn 

 stabs sufficient to deter any but an enthusiast. It was impossible to 

 flusjj specimens into the open, as the insects merely sliifted their position 

 to another portion of the bush. 



There is a considerable amount of variation in the shade of the 

 dorsum of the head, pronotum and anal area of the tegniina, face, 




164 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF U'oh., 



gena^ and ventral portion of the lateral lobe of the pronotuni, and of 

 the caudal femora; these portions beino; pale ochraceous in one speci- 

 men, very dull ochraceous in several others and warm red lirown in 

 another. The majority have these areas umber-brown. The red- 

 brown specimen is from Clin and all the ochraceous individuals from 

 the sandhill country. 



The pre^•ious records of this species are from Dallas and Bonita, 

 Texas; Mountain Park, Oklahoma; ]\Iesilla Park, New JMexico, and 

 l^erdo, Durango, Mexico. 



Melanoplus atlanis (Kiley). 



Tiirce males anil two fcnuiles of this widely spread species were 

 taken in weedy spots in irrigated land along the Rio (irande below 

 El Paso on July 10 and 11. A single male was taken on July 14 at 

 Wootens, Otero County, New Mexico, at an elevation of about 7,000 

 feet, while a series of six females was taken in meadow-land at Cloud- 

 croft, July 14-15. 



As previously noticed by the authors- in regard to Arizona material 

 of this species, the series before us show imiformly greater- size than 

 is true of specimens from the eastern United States, agreeing with 

 material from Colorado and northern New Mexico, in addition to that 

 previously recorded from Arizona. 



Melanoplus aridas (Scudder). 



This interesting species, which has a very considerable vertical range, 

 is represented by five males and one female taken at El Paso (July 11 . 

 1 G^), in Dry Canyon, Sacramento ^Mountains (July 13, 1 c?), Florida 

 Mountains (July 19, 2 d^, 1 9) and at Albuquerque (September 14, 

 1 d^). A pair of this species from Fort Wingate, New Mexico, taken 

 August 28 by John Woodgate, have also been examined. 



At Albuquerque the species was taken on vWer bottom-land, at El 

 Paso on weeds in field along river bank, while in Diy Canyon and 

 in the Florida Mountains at elevations from 5,000 to 5,500 feet in 

 the juniper and pifion zone, the species occurred among bush oaks 

 (Florida Mountains) and on mesquite (Dry Can3'on). In both of the 

 latter situations adults of the species were veiy scarce, but a number 

 of immature specimeiLS, presumably of this species, Avere noticed. 



The male from El Paso is larger and lighter in color than the other 

 specimeas of that sex, while the Alljuquerque individual is very dark 

 in color. The latter specimen resembles closely in general color tone 



« Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., lOOS, p. 396. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 165 



representatives of the species from northern Arizona. Tliis is the first 

 record of the species from Texas. 



Melanoplas altitudinum (Scudder).-' 



Two females of this species were collected in James Can3'on, Cloud- 

 croft, July 14-15, one being from the overgrown slope of the canj'on, 

 the other from a weedy spot at the mouth of the canyon. The indi- 

 vidual from the slope of the canyon is somewhat smaller than the other 

 specimen. 



The previous New Mexican records of the species are from nortliern 

 Xew Mexico (Scudder), Taos Peak, 13,000 feet (Scudder), ridge between 

 Sapello and upper Pecos River (Scudder, Cockerell) and Cloudcroft 

 (Rehn). 



Melanoplus femur-rubrum (De Geer). 



A series of seven males and seven females of this wideh' distributed 

 species were taken in cultivated ground at Albuquerque, September 

 14, a single male also being collected at El Paso, July 11, in bottom- 

 land along the Rio Grande. 

 Melanoplas calidas Scuiider. 



One of the most characteristic grasshopper of the mountain meadows 

 and of underbrush in certain portions of the forest-land around Cloud- 

 croft Is this striking species, Scudder originally described this 

 insect from Oilman's Ranch, Eagle Creek, White Mountains, New 

 Mexico, at an elevation of 7,000 feet; Scudder and Cockerell later 

 recording it from the South Fork of Eagle Creek. 



The species was found to be plentiful on July 

 14 and 15, although in the morning before ten 

 o'clock it was ver}- hard to find. The series 

 taken consists of twenty-nine males and twenty 

 females. ... ,. ,, , 



lip. 15. — Mrlano- 

 In size tliere is great unifomiity in the male j)lus calidus 



sex and but little variation in the female, and then Sr.iddcr. 1 )<.rsal 



VK'w <)1 apex of 

 chiefly in the length of the tegmina. Compared alxioinni. (x4.) 



with Scudder's measurements the specimens arc 



generally smaller, picked individuals giving measurements as follows: 



"The Rrcat diffirulty of .separating some of the l)rachypteroiis .sjjorieg of 

 McUinopbiH from ri'prcseiitative.s of the f;''"H3 Podisniti ami the cio.se re.seiuhlance 

 existing between Mclnnoplus (illUuilinum and I'odi.sina dixlijrl wa.s re.si)onsil)lc 

 for an erroneoii.s determination made l)y the .senior author (I'roc. Acad. Xtit. Sci. 

 Philn., l'.M)t, p. o71). The speeimen.s from Raton, Sf.w .Mexieo. and IVesrottand 

 Copper Hasin, ,\rizona, tlien; referred to M .idliludinum, are really I'oitUmn dodijri, 

 as a careful re-examination of all thr- availal)le materi.-d in th<r two Hi)ecie.s .show.-j. 

 A wries of C'olorad.in I', dnilijvi and WyominR and .\ew Mexican M. altitt^ditium 

 hav<! been u.-icd for comp.arison. 




166 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb 



length of boily 20 



Length of pronotuni, ... — 



Length of tegnien, .... 6 



I>ength of caudal tegnien,. H) 



Scudilfr'.s Mfjif:. 



o' 



Cloudcroft. 



nun. 



10.2 nnn. 



4 



4.5 " 

 10. ;3 " 



17.2 nnn. 



4 



4.5 " 



10.2 " 



Length of body. . 

 Length of pronotuni, 

 Length of tegmen. 

 Length of caudal tegmen. 



3 ? 



21 . 75 nun. 1.S.2 nini. 



— 5 " 



6 " 4.7 " 



10 



12 



12 



Fig. 16. — Melano- 

 plus CO I id us 

 Scudder. Lateral 

 outline of apex of 

 abdomen. (X 4.) 



The great length of the body in the last nieasiu-ed specimen is 

 in part at least due to distension. The tegmina are quite uniform 

 in the males, while in the females 6.3 mm. is the 

 greatest length found. The caudal margin of 

 the pronotum is subtruncate in a few individuals, 

 and very slightly and broadly obtuse-angulate in 

 the great majority. In color the general tone varies 

 from gra3'-brown to umber-brown, but the pattern 

 varies but little, while the pale yellowish stripe 

 is more marked in some specimens than in others. 

 This species is apparently very close to M. 

 qiuidratus Scudder from South Fork of Eagle 

 Creek. S.IOO feet, White Mountains. New ]\Iexico; at least the two 

 descriptions are very similar and specimens are determined with con- 

 siderable difficulty. 



MelanopluB differentialis (Thomas). 



This destructive species was found swarming on irrigated land along 

 the Rio Grande below El Paso, July 11, two males being taken, while 

 at Albuquerc^ue it was found plentiful in high weeds on cultivated 

 land on September 14, a pair being collected. 



Melanoplns bivittatas (Say). 



A series of five males and eight females was taken in the bottom- 

 land at Albuquerque on September 14. The caudal tibia are quite 

 black proximad in a number of individuals and some shade of glaucous 

 distad in all but three specimens, which are moie or less strongly 

 yellowi.sh on that portion of the tibije. The dark line on the dorsal 

 portion of the lateral face f)f the caudal femora is distinctly marked 

 in all the individuals. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 167 



TETTIGONID^. 



DICHOPETALA Brunner. 

 Dichopetala brevihastata Scudiier. 



A sinc[le immature male taken on greasevvood at an elevation of 

 4,800 feet at the mouth of Diy Canyon, Sacramento Moimtains, appeal's 

 to belong to this species, although the identification is attended with 

 a little uncertainty owing to the immaturity of the specimen. Imma- 

 ture specimens apparently of this species were found to be fairly com- 

 mon when beating in the ^•if•inity of the mouth of the canyon. 



HORMILIA Stdl. 

 Hormilia elegans Scu<i<)er. 



Two females of this species were taken at Deming, July 20. both 

 attracted to light. One specimen of the species was found in the 

 lunch-room of the railroad station and brought to us by one of the 

 waitei-s. 



On comparing these specimens with the original measurements and 



with seven individuals from Horence, Arizona, it became apparent 



that specimens from the eastern side of the continental divide were 



larger than representatives from the western side. The following 



measvu'ements may bo of use when more exteasive series are examined. 



Xtar McsiUa. 



X. M. D('niiii<r. Dfiiiiiifr. Florence, 



(tvpe; from X. M. X. M. Ariz. 



Scudderj. Vll.JU.or. VII.L'O.O?. VII. 23. 



Length of body (exdu- . ^ -. 9 



sive of ovipositor), 17 nun. 15 mm. is nun. 10.8 nmi. 



Length of togmen. 2S " 2!) " ."'l " — 



Length of wiiiir (api)rox- 



unate) MO '• Ml '• Mlo " 20 



Length of caudal ff-mur, !'.» " 21 " 2.'L2 " 



Kloreiiee, .\ri/,. 



1) 



IX. JO. VII. 2(J. VII. l.i \n. 22. 



Length of body (e.xdu- - 9 d" Q 



sive of ovi|)(»sitor). IS 2 mm. 19 mm. ]rt mm. L^i mm. 



Length of tcgmcii. 2(»..") " 21 " 2."! " 2.") 

 Length of wing (uj)- 



pro.\imat«-), . 29 " 2.") .") • 2.5 " 2") o " 

 Length of caudal 



fennu- 20 •' I'.K.J •' 17 " 17 



Florence, .\riz. 



VL II. VI. s. 



n 



Length of body (exclusive of ftvipositor), L") mm. 17 s mm. 



Length of t(>gmen 2-1 " 2.") 



Length of wing (apju'oximatc). 2') " 27.^") " 



Length of caudal femur. 19 " 21 




168 



PROCEEDINGS OF THIO ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



One of tlie Deming females is a very jiale buff, with the "herring- 

 bone" tegminal pattern but faintly marked. The other individual is 

 in the green jihase with the jiattern a pale green, and no indication of 

 the blackisii suffusion on tlu^ sutui-al area.*^ frequently seen in the 

 species. 



The jirevious New Mexican records for the species were all from the 

 vicinity of Las Cnices and Mesilla in the Mesilla \'all(y. 



ARETH.ff:A Sial. 

 Arethaea oonstricta Brunner. 



A single male of this species was taken at Fort Wingate, New Mexico, 

 August 28, 1908. by John Woodgate. 



The species has been recorded from Texas; near Organ Mountains, 

 New Mexico; from an arroyo ten miles west of La Luz. Otero County, 

 New Mexico; Tucson and l^abo(juivari Mountains, Arizona. 



SCUDDERIA Sial. 

 Soudderia furcifera Scudder. 



A single female of this species has been examined from Fort \\'ingate. 

 New Mexico, taken August 23, 1908, by John Woodgate. 



The only j^revious New Mexican records of this species Avcre from the 

 southern portion of the Territory, La Cueva, Organ Mountains, and 

 Dripping .Springs, Organ Mountains. 



AMBLYCORYPHA St&l. 

 Amblycorypha huasteca (Sau.ssure). 



A single male of this species was beaten from a tall green bush grow- 

 ing in the bottom of Dry Canyon, Sacramento Mountaias, at an 

 elevation of 5,200 feet, in the pinon and juniper zone. 



This specimen is of considerable interest, as when compared with a 

 series of eight males and two females from Shovel Mount, Burnet 

 County, Texas, the tegmina are found to be appreciably longer, 

 although the body and caudal femora are of about the same size. 

 The dimensions of the Dry Canyon speecimen compared with an 

 average Shovel Mount male and the original measurements of Saussure 

 are as follows : 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 169 



A sufficient series of the longer winged form may show the necessity 

 of recognizing it as a geographic race. 



Thig is the first record of the species from New Mexico and one f)f 

 the few from west of Texas. The senior author has recordc d it from 

 southern Arizona, and Snow has credited it to Oak Creek Canj'on, 

 Coconino County, Arizona. 



EREMOPEDES Cockerell. 

 Eremopedes albofasciata .ScuiMer ami Cuekerell. 



Four immature specimens, two of each sex, Avere taken at Aden, 

 July 21. in grass prairie land; a single immatin*e female from Deming, 

 July 18. taken on rabbit weed, Ls also in the collection. The only 

 previous record of the species was that of the type from Mesilla Park. 



ATELOPLUS Scu.kler. 

 Ateloplus macroscelus-* n. sp. 



Type : : i:i Paso, El Paso County, Texa.'^. July 1 1 , 1007. (Hel)ard 

 and Rehn.) [Hebard Collection.] 



AlUed to .-1. notohis Scudder and .1. scJiwarzi Caudell, but differing 

 from both in the much more elongate caudal limbs and ovipositor and 

 the different color pattern. 



Size medium: form moderately elongate. Head quite short but 

 rather broad and deep; fastigium of the vertex rounding to the facial 

 fastigium which it touches, surface of the same not a])precial)ly sulfate; 

 eyes not jirominent, subovate in outline; antenna' slightly more than 

 twice the length (if the body, ])r()ximal joint rather large, slightly 

 produced on the internal face. I'ronotiim with its doi"sal length slightly 

 more than twice that of the exposed doi-sum of the head, the dorsum 

 of the pronotum regularly arcuate in traiisvci'se section roimding into 

 the lateral lobes; cephalic margin of the dorsinn subtruncate, caudal 

 margin very broadly and shallowly l)ut distinctly obtuse-aiigulate 

 emarginate; when seen from the side the doi-sal line of the pi-onotum 

 is nearly straight, no sellate tendency being present ; lateral lobes 

 of the pronotum very considerably longer than deep, the ventral margin 

 (jljtuse-aiigulate with the caudal portion of the angle slightly aicuate- 

 cmarginate. Tegmina present Jis the merest ]>ads, hardly visible 

 caudad of the pronotal margin, i'rosternal ])rocesses the merest 

 obtuse-angulate shoulders, in no sense s|)ines. AbdouHMi with a 

 very blunt dorsal carina: tciiniiial doi"sal abdominal segment with 

 a coa'^iderable median impression whieh is folded ventrad: cerci 

 short, conical, acute; ovipositor al)out threc'-foiu'ths the length of the 



'* .MfiAVKMTKt? ;/<;. having long legs. 




70 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[I-Vl) 



i-amlal foinora, nuHloratoly robust, somewhat arcuate j^'oxiniail and 

 (listail. nearly straij^lit in the niidcUe. tlie i)roxini:il third more rolnist 

 than the remaintler. the apex acute; sub}»;enital phite obtuse-annulate 

 with a rather larije and ([uite deep median V-shaped eniargi nation, a 

 pair of mixlerately distinct sub-parallel longitudinal carinte present 

 on the plate. Cephalic and median limbs of moderate length; cei:)ha)ic 

 femora equal to the pronotum in length, unarmed; cephalic libiai 

 armed doi-sad with three spines on the outer margin, with six on each 

 of the ventral ones ; median femora ver\- slightly longer than the cepha- 

 lic, imarmed; median tibia^ with the dorsal margins armed with two 

 (.cephalic) or four (caudal) spines, each of the ventrals with six sjiines. 

 Caudal femora .slightly longer than the body, moderately inflated in 



Fip. 17. — Att;l()/)lNs mtirroscelus n. .';p. I^uteral view of typo. (X 2.) 



the proximal half, slender distad, the greatest width contained neai'ly 

 six times in the length, externo- ventral margin with a single spine, 

 internoventral with five; caudal tibia* about equal to the femora in 

 length, all the margins spined, the dorsal ones with a numbci- con- 

 siderably exceeding that of the ventral series. 



General colors cream white and blackish-brown, generally mingled 

 and marljled, with Vjut little pattern aside from several rather daiker 

 longitudinal areas on the abdomen and a median obsolete ^'-shaped 

 figure on the jjronotum. The ventral portion of the lateral lobes of 

 the pronotum is pure cream-white divided sharply but irregularly from 

 the darker doi-sal section. On the face, the pleura and the sides of 

 the proximal portion of the abdomen the lighter color predominates 

 or is more conspicuous on account of the mai'bling l>eing coarser. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 171 



Liinb.s marbled as is the case with the body, but a tendency toward 

 broad anniili is noticed; caudal limbs with considerable blue-gray 

 present in place of blackish-brown. Eyes wood-brown clouded with 

 burnt umber; antennie, except for the proximal joint, vandyko brown; 

 ovipositor with the general pattern. 



Measurements. 



Length of body 21 mm. 



Length of pronotum 6.S " 



Length of caudal fenun-. 25 " 



Length of ovipositor. IS " 



The type and an immature iiaratyjHC female (July 10) were taken 

 on greasewood on the mesa to tiie south and east of the Franklin 

 Mountains. 



STENOPELMATUS Bunneister. 

 StenopelmatQS oculatus ><u.l.lcr. 



A single female of this species from Fort Wingate, New ^Mexico, 

 taken (Jctober 15, 1907, by John Woodgate, has been examined. 



CEUTHOPHILUS Sou.l.Ier. 

 Oeuthophilus uniformis SruiMf-r 



Three females of this species were taken at C'loudcroft on July 14, 

 under the bark <»f a stumj) of yellow ]nne{Phu(s })on<lerosa). The only 

 previous New Mexican records of the species are from Beulah. .San 

 Miguel County, and plains of noiihern New .Mexico, eastern slope. 

 Elsewhere the sjjccies is found in ("ojorado, wr<teiii N'ebia'^ka ami 

 eastern Kansas. 



CeuthophiluB valgus Siii.i.ior. 



A single male of this very interesting species was taken iVoni the 

 interior of a decayed log of Douglas fir [Pseudnlsufiti niiirronnlti). 

 This individual is slightly larger than Seudder's original measurements; 

 and considerably larger than an in«lividnal from lieujah. .New Mexico. 

 The species has l)ecn recorde<l from Santa Ke, jieuiah and White 

 Mf)Utitain region, New .\h'xico, and also from certain localities in Colo- 

 rado. 



Ceuthophilui pauoispinoias Hehu 



Two females of tliis sperie«; were taken in the Morida Mountains 

 in November by l)r. II. .\. Tiisbry. The specimens are (tf average 

 size and do not differ from individuals from the Iliiachuea Mountains, 

 Arizona. This is the first record of the species from New Mexico, the 




^<'~ PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [l'*'l>-. 



previous records l)ejn.u- from the Iluacluica .Mouiilaius and Oak Creek 

 Canyon. Arizona, and without exaet data from the southern portion 

 of the same Territory. 



UDEOPSYLLA Scuader. 

 Udeopsylla socorrensis (Hchn). 



Ihis species, which was tlescribed as a species of Phrixocnemis, 

 should be ])hiced in the genus Udeopsylla ,in'ohah\y with U. franciscamis 

 and vierecki representing a new suligenus. The structure and arma- 

 ment of tlie caudal tibia? are quite different from the type found in 

 U. robusta, but with the small amount of material available it seems 

 best to defer any division until an opportunity to examine a more 

 extensive series ])resents itself. A single male of this species from 

 Fort Wingate, collected :\Iay 12. 190S, by John Woodgate, has been 

 examined. The only previous record for the species is that of the types 

 from the Magdalena Mountains, New ;Mexico. 



GRYLLIDJE. 

 ECTATODERUS Guorin. 

 Eotatoderus borealis Scud.ler. 



A single nearly mature female of this species was taken from a deatl 

 yucca on the greasewood slope between Alamogordo and Dry Canyon, 

 July 13. Two adult females taken in the Florida ^Mountains in Novem- 

 ber by Dr. H. A. Pilsbry have also been examined, as well as a male 

 from Claremont, California, taken In- Prof. C. F. Baker. 



The Alamogordo specimen has the lateral lobes of the pronotum 

 quite blackish, but this is not the case with the Florida Mountain 

 females, although present in the Claremont male. Its absence may 

 be due to the fact that the specimens in which this coloration is absent 

 were collected in alcohol. 



The previous New ^lexican records of this species were from La 

 Cueva and Dripping Springs. Organ Mountains. 



NEMOBIUS Scu<l.ler. 

 Nemobius neomexicanus Scudder. 



Ihree specimens of this species, one adult male, one adult female 

 and one innnature individual, were taken at Alamogordo, July 16, in 

 long grass under cottonwoods in the irrigated town park, where the 

 species was abundant. 



Both of the adults have the wings shorter than the tegmina, but 

 other^nse they fully agree with an individual from Florence, Arizona. 



The species has been recorded from Las Cruces and Mesilla, New 




1909.] N.\TUR.\L SCIENXES OF PHIL.\DELPHI.\. 173 



Mexico; Douglas. Cochise County, and Florence. Pinal County, Arizona ; 

 Los Angeles, California, and several localities in Lower California. 



Nemobius utahensis Scudder. 



A single female of this species, pre\'iously known only from Spring 

 Lake and Salt Lake Valley, Utah, and Sedalia and Montevista, Colo- 

 rado, was taken at Albuquerciue, Se|3tember 14, where the species was 

 common in heavy weeds in the bottom-land. The capture of the 

 species at Montevista, Colorado, is interesting when taken Avith the 

 Albuquerque record, as the former locality is in the uj:)per portion of 

 the Rio Grande valley. 



GRYLLUS Linnaeus. 

 Gryllus personatus I'hler. 



A single male of this species was taken at night from under a tin in 

 the street at Alamogordo, July 12. A single female taken at San 

 Marcial. Socorro County, Xew Mexico, July, 1907, by Otho Poling, has 

 also been e.xamined. Both specimens are macropterous. These are 

 the first positive records of the species from Xew Mexico. 

 Gryllus armatns .^cuilder. 



A series of five males and six females of this species was taken at 

 Deming, July 19 and 20, where they were found attracted to electric 

 lights. A single female was also taken, attracted to lights at Alamo- 

 gordo, July 12. All the specimens are macropterous. 



The principal measurements of the Deming specimens are as follows: 



d" d" d d 



Length of tegmen. . 12.5 nun. 14 nun. 12..") nun. 12 S nun. 



Length of caudal femur 10.. 5 " 12 " 10.. j " 10 



Length of ovipositor — — — — 



Length of tegmen. . 1.3 nui 

 Length of caudal fciinu", 11 

 Length of ovipo>it(ir. — 



Length of tegmen. 

 Length of caudal fcMMir, . 

 Length of ovipositor, 



These are the fii-st records of the species fnmi NCw .Mcxieo. 

 Gryllus pennsylvanious Hunnristcr. 



.\ single Mialc of this species wjus taken from under a stone at night 

 at Cloudcroft. July 15, while a female specimen was taken at light at 

 Alamr)gordo, July 12. 




174 PROCERDI\GS OF THE ACADKMV OK [I'Vl)., 



The previous positive Xew Mexican records of the species wore from 

 Santa Fe. Las \'ei;as. (lallinas Canyon, Fort Huchanan and Mesilla 

 Park. May to Aufrust. 

 Gryllus alogus Uohn 



A series of nine males and six females are contained in the collec- 

 tions examined in this connection. Of this series five males and three 

 females were taken at Alamofjordo. July 12 and 18, one male attracted 

 to liixht. the remainder taken from a dead yucca; one ))air was taken at 

 Kl Paso, July 11. from a burrow, also inhabited by innnature firyllids of 

 other species, at the edge of the mesa; two males and one female from 

 desert hillside and grass prairie at Aden, July 21 ; a single male from 

 Deming, July 19, attracted to light, and a single female from Fort 

 AVingate, May 12, collected by John Woodgate. 



The Fort Wingate individual is quite small, no more than two-thirds 

 the size of the other females, while the coloration of nearly all the speci- 

 mens is imiformly darker than that of the type. The species appears 

 to be closely related to the Californian G. vocalis. 



The measurements of the specimens examined are as follows : 



Alamoa;orclo. 



Length of tegmen. 9.5 nmi. 10 mm. 11 mm. 10 nun. 



Length of caudal femur, 11.8 " 11 " 11.5 " 11 " 

 Length of ovipositor . — — — — 



Alamogordo. 



& O 



Length of tegmen. 9.8 mm. 7 mm. 8.2 mm. 8 mm. 



Length of caudal femur. 11 " 11.5 " 12 " 12 " 

 Length of ovipositor. . . — 12 " 13.5 " — 



El Paso. 



(5"' 9 



Length of tegmen 11 mm. 9.2 mm. 



Length of caudal femur 11.5 " 13 



Length of ovipositor, — 14 



Aden. 



Length of tegmen 9.5 mm. 9.5 mm. 9 mm. 



Length of caudal femur, ... 11.5 " 11 " 12 

 Length of ovipositor, ... — — 13.5 " 



Dc'iniiig. Ft. Wingale. 



J' 9 



Length of tegmen 11 mm. 4 mm. 



Length of caudal femur, 11.8 " 8.7 " 



Length of ovipositor, — 10.2 " 




190D.] NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 175 



The previoiLs records are from Albuquerque, New Mexico, Huachuca 

 Mountaias and Phoenix. Arizona. 



(ECANTHUS Serville. 

 (Ecanthus quadripanctatus UeutenmuUer. 



Three inmuiture individuals .swept from ral)l)it-weed at Deniing, 

 July 18, appear to be referable to this species. 



This is the first record of the species from New Mexico. 

 (Eoanthus fasciatus I'itch. 



A pair of this species were taken from hiirli weeds at 4,900 feet ele- 

 vation in Dry Canyon. July 13. The liml)s are l)rownish-yellow in 

 botli specimens, while the antennae are blackish toward the bases. 



The previous New Mexican records of the species are from Mescalero, 

 (Jtero Countv, and Mesilla. Donna Ana Count v. 




176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Maicll, 



.M\K(H 2. 



Arthur l-^nviN l^uowx, Sc.l)., N'it'i'-Presidcnt, in ihc Cliair. 



Thirty-one jioisons present. 



The Pubhcatiou Committee rejiorted the refejitioii of ]ia))er,s for 

 publication under the followin<i titles: 



"Arachnida from Costa Rica." By Nathan Banks (February 1!)). 

 ''Microscopical Image Formation." By F. J. Keeley (March 2). 



Dr. John MacFarlane made a communication on inito-contrac- 

 tility in plants. (No abstract.) 



March 10. 

 Arthur Erwix Bhowx, Sc.D., Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Twenty-five pei-sons present. 



The death of Prof. Percival de Loriol le Fort, a Correspondent, on 

 December 23, 1908. was announced. 



Dr. IIenrv Skinner made a communication on Antigeny or Sexual 

 Diversity in Insects. (No abstract.) 



Corrections : Dr. G. C. Ckampton regrets that the following errors escaped 

 him while reading the proofs of iiis paper entitled "A Contribution to the 

 Comparative Morj^hology of the Thoracic Sclerites of Insects" : 



In Figures 6, 7 and S, tiie region lahelled S, sliould be designated Sj. 



In the explanation.of Figure 12, instead of "sternellum." read "scutellum." 



Page So, line 29, instead of " katepiineral complex," read "katepisternal 

 complex." 



Page 29, line 11, instead of CorydaU», read Chrysopn. 



The insect figured in Plate I is not Nemura, but Lcuctra. 



William Welsh was elected a member. 

 The following was ordered to be printed : 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 177 



MICROSCOPICAL IMAGE FORMATION. 

 BY F. .1. KEELEY. 



This subject is of importance to every user of a micro^^copo, a.'? a 

 correct understanding of the optical laws which govern the formation 

 of the image would assist in determining to what extent the true 

 structure and size of the object under examination is correctly repre- 

 sented by the appearances presented to the eye. We arc confronted 

 with two radically different theories of microscopical vision, which may 

 be termed the diffraction and dioptric theories, although the former 

 requires the presence of both diffracted and dioptric beams, while tiie 

 latter deals principally with the effect of diffraction, but only such as 

 arises in the instrument itself and not from the object under exami- 

 nation. As the exponents of each seem to take partisan views and fail 

 to give adequate consideration to the opposing theory, it appeared to 

 be worth while to make a careful study of both in as far as possible 

 an unprejudiced manner, supplemented by experiments, with the 

 view of endeavoring to learn whether they are wholly irreconcilable. 



From 1771, when Benjamin Martin applied a low ])ower achromatic 

 objective to a microscope and explained that its superiority wa.'^ largely 

 due to the increa.sed aperture available, until Tolles, a century later, 

 realized the possibility and jMacticaljility of producing objectives with 

 apertures in excess of th(> equivalent of l.S()°in air, the principal (>fTorts 

 of the opticians and tlieir C()llal)oiat()rs, the microscopist^^^, was in tiie 

 direction of increasefl aperture and inipi-ovcMJ ejudmatic corrections, and 

 no sericnis doubts appear to have been raised regarding tiie dioptric 

 theory, in the form in which it had been workcul out for the telescope; 

 but when the practical limit of aperture with availal)lematerials had been 

 reached by all the leading opticians, moi'e attention wa--^ paid to theoret- 

 ical (juestions, and it began to be apparent that there were certain j)he- 

 nomena connected with image formation in the microscope which could 

 not be satisfactorily explained l)y accepted theories. A b!)e investigated 

 this problem with characteristic acumen and evolved the theory which 

 has since l)orn(; hia name, and although imuK diately attacked and 

 later .somewhat modified by himself, although in a radical direction, 

 12 ^ 




17S 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADK-MY OF 



[March, 



liis theory has stocxl uiirofiitod up to the ))reseiit time; but recently 

 there has been a fcehng aroused that, without further modification, 

 it fails to fully account for all features of observed microscopical 

 images. 



The oKl dioptric theory has accordingly been re-expounded and 

 amplified, and it is unnecessary to explain it in detail, as this has been 

 most admirably and completely done in Wright's "Princijiles of 

 Microscopy," published in 1906, which, while characterized by inac- 

 curacies in connection with such matters as the measurement of focus 

 and aperture, and indicating a lack of acfjuaintance with the diffrac- 

 tion theory, covere the ground from the dioptric point of view so tho- 

 roughly that I find but one point open to criticism, which is the employ- 

 ment of bright points and lines, equivalent to self-luminous objects, 

 in explaining the formation of the diffraction patterns termed "anti- 

 points." This is not a condition which is met in practical microscopy 

 except with dark ground illumination, but every skilled microscopist 

 knows that this form of illumination, although advantageous for 

 many purposes, particularly for increasing the visibility of isolated 

 points and lines, is never equal to direct light in developing true images 

 of structure, the elements of which are not separated by distances 

 exceeding their own diameters. The decreased resolution has recently 

 been explained by Nelson, and, in addition to this, false appearances 

 intermediate between true structural elements may be produced by 

 the coincidence of diffracted rays, which would not be visible* with 

 direct light. 



In the rare case of opaque ])articles in a transparent medium, such 

 as is furnished by a rock section containing minute crystals of mag- 

 netite or pyrite, the phenomena observed at the margins of these crys- 

 tals may be explained as just the reverse of those arising from a bright 

 point image; but in the vast majority of all structures examined with 

 the microscope there will be little difference in the illumination on 

 opposite sides of a marginal line, possibly only a difference in color, and 

 whether the margin be considered as imaged by "slightly refracted rays 

 or by slightly deflected diffracted rays, whether an image of the margin 

 Is produced at all or only an interference of "antipoints," it is unques- 

 tionable that in certain classes of objects at least, as my experiments 

 have not covered the whole ground sufficiently to generalize, there is 

 something visible corresponding to a limiting margin, which may be 

 recognized and measured by a practiced eye, whether isolated when 

 illuminated by a wide cone or flanked on both sides by diffraction 

 bands with a narrow one. This fact had been impressed on me by 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 179 



previously matle experiments, for when I first lealizcd the effect that 

 the size of the illuminated aperture should have on the apparent size 

 of an object, the theoretical basis for this conclusion seemed so sound 

 that I started a series of measurements to estabhsh a table of correc- 

 tions for "antipoint" for future use. 



Failino: to (jet any consistent results, or even any variations beyond 

 the probable limits (»f instrumental ci'ror. in the coui-se of micrometry 

 of various objects at odd times, I finally made the following measure- 

 ments with higher jiowei^s. adopting as most suital)le objects two 

 well-stained human blood corpuscles, moiuited in balsam, and so 

 marked that they could be found at any time, not only because they 

 represented a cla.ss of ol:)jects freiiuently subjected to measurement, 

 l)ut also for the reason that they furnished an absorption image that 

 should be particularly susceptible to dioptric law. i'ull data are as 

 follows: 



1. April IS: Stand, Zentmayer Centennial. Objective, Zeiss o nun. 

 Apoehromat. 1.40 \. A. Condeaser, Powell & Lealand Apocliromat, 

 1.40 X. A., no diaphragm, focussed for greatest aplanatic a])erture, 

 about 1.20 X. A. Stage Micrometer, Rogers "A" Division, third one- 

 thousandth inch, Zentmayer Filar Micrometer. Diameter of corpuscle 

 Xo. 1, .00032050 inch; diameter of corpuscle Xo. 2, .00031745 inch. 



2. April 18: Eveiything exactly as above, except that a diaphragm 

 was iaserted in the condenser, reducing the cone of illumination to 

 .20 X. A. Diameter of corpuscle Xo. 1, .00031860 inch; diameter of 

 corpuseh; Xo. 2, .00031747 inch. X'ariation from first measinrments, 

 corpuscle Xo. 1, —.00000190 inch; corpuscle Xo. 2, +.00000002 inch. 



3. April 19: Stand, Zentmayer Centennial. Objective, Baiisch & 

 Lomb one-eighth inch, .85 X. A. Condenser, Heck Achromatic, 1.00 

 N. A., diaphragmed to .20 X. A. Stage .Miciometer, Kogei's "A" 

 Division, third (jne-thousandth inch, Zentmayer Filar Micrometer. 

 Diameter of corpuscle Xo. 1, .000.31S!>0 inch; diameter of corjnisclo 

 No. 2, .00031605. Variation from fii-st measiu'ements, corpuscle Xo. 1, 

 —.000001(5 inch; corpuscle Xo. 2, — .OOOOOOSO inch. 



4. Ai)ril 19: Stand, Watson \'an lleurck. ( )l)jective, lieck one- 

 eighth .90 X. .X. Condenser, Bausch i^: Ldiiib Abbe Achromatic 

 l.(M) X. A. diaphragmed to .50 X. A. Stage Micrometer, Fasoldt 

 "A" Division, second one-thousandth, liausch iV: I.onil) I'ilar Micro- 

 meter. Mea.'^urement of corpuscle .Nd. 1, .(I(I(i:;h;()'.i indi. \aiialion 

 from fii-st measurement, — .()0(K)()441. 



5. .April 28: Stand, Zentmayer Centeimial. ( (bjcctivc, Haiisch & 

 Lomb one-twelfth inch, W. I.. 1.00 .\. .\. Condenser, lieck .Vclir^'ma- 




180 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[March, 



tic. 1.00 N. A. diaithranincil to .50 X. A. Sta<i(' Micromotor, Roj^or.'^ 

 "B" Division, tontli two-thousandth inch. Z(Mitiuayor Filar Micro- 

 meter. Diameter of corpuscle No. 1, .000.31770 inch. Nariation from 

 first measvu-emont. — .000002S0 inch. 



These moa.suromonts winv u\adc with the nlmost care, tiu^ moan of 

 ten readings of tlic hlar micromotor hoiiiu lakon in each case, and 

 between the readings both the object and linos of hlar micromotor 

 moved and the focu- changed, so that each reading recinirod independent 

 adjustment in all respects. The actual \aluo of the micrometer 

 divisions was not determined until after all the readings on the cor- 

 piLScles were made, to avoiil any ])ossil)ility of unconscious mental 

 bias. Fractions of an inch are i-mployocl l)ocaus(> my l)(>st micromotors, 

 those with the sharpest defined lines, are so ruled. It is ea.sy to cal- 

 culate the measurements to microns if desired, but this was useless 

 in present case where the measurements had no A-alue sa\e for com- 

 parison. 



It will be noted that the first two measurements, with illuminating 

 cones of 1.20 and .20 X. A. respectively, agree far within the limits 

 of probable instrumental error. In fact the small variation on cor- 

 puscle No. 2 is entirely a chance result, and I have experienced such 

 close results in but one or two other cases out of man}- Innulrods of 

 measurements. The measurements on the second evening, under still 

 different conditions, strongly confirmed the previous results. The last 

 two measurements, each of but one corpuscle, were made principally 

 to test the accuracy of the stage micrometers used, and the greater 

 variation shown, which in the fourth measurement approaches what 1 

 would consider the probable limit of instrumental error under the 

 conditions, might be ascribed to the use of different stage micrometers. 

 I doubt if this is entirely true, as all my micrometers have been so 

 thoroughly and repeatedly compared and studied, that any division 

 or di\'isions of any one of a half dozen or more might be used with little 

 chance of serious error, the true value of each, as recorded in my note- 

 book, being of course used in making the comparison, as well as the 

 same marked position on the division, as all stage micrometers vary 

 materially not only in different divisions but in different parts of same 

 division. The best have a horizontal line on which all comparisons 

 should be made. It is more likely that the comparatively large varia- 

 tion in the fourth measurement is mostly due to the employment q{ 

 the Bausch & Lt)ml) instead of the Zentmayer Filar Micrometer. 

 While the former is very accurately made, it has ruled lines instead of 

 spider webs, and therefore does not admit of such accurate definition 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



and placing of the lines, measurements being of coui-se made between 

 the interior edges of the lines, and the diameter of the latter allowed 

 for in comparing with stage micrometer. In the fifth measurement, a 

 slight error might occur from comparison with a different-sized division 

 of stage micrometer, as owing to the variation in magnification over 

 the field of ocular, even if erroi-s of screw are immaterial, no filar micro- 

 meter is likely to give exactly ilouble the reading on two equal divisions 

 that it will on one of them. This difference, if only centre of field is 

 employed, is too small to be serious, but in very accurate measurements 

 it is always well to compare witii divisions of stage micrometer as nearly 

 as practicable corresponding to size of object measured. 



From these data it will be evident that the uiuiuestionable presence 

 of "antipoint" phenomena need not be taken into consideration in con- 

 nection with micrometry witli white light, as a trained eye can select 

 the same margins to measure imder any ordinary conditions of illu- 

 mination. This is not in the least contradictory to the theory, but 

 demonstrates the ]jos.>^ibility of overcoming a theoretical difficulty 

 in actual practice. As anyone skilled at micrometry is likely to use a 

 large cone whenever ])ractical)le. the only occasions when this question 

 will be of imiiortancc will 1)(' when successive measurements must be 

 made through covei"s of widely differing thickness. Owing to the 

 impossibility of making any adjustment for this variation, it may be 

 necessary to cut down l!ie cone of illumination and dcpc-nd on experi- 

 ence to select the margins to be measured. 



In considering difTraction phenomena originating in the object, it 

 will l)e well to first assiune conditions imder which the objective will 

 be of greater aperture than the illuminating cone, and will therefore, 

 when examined with ocular removed, exhibit a disk of light, the diop- 

 tric beam, surrounded l)y an luiilluminated space. The insertion of an 

 object in the focus of the objective will result in this dark sjiace show- 

 ing more or le.<s light which may be both I'efracted and difTractcd by 

 the object. If the latter has a fine structure. ])eriodically arranged, 

 this light reaching the outer zone of the objective's ajierture will be 

 mostly of diffraction origin and will take the form of separated spectra. 

 .As is well known, the examination of such spectra will enabl(> us to 

 predicate in advance what will be the arrangement and distance of 

 tlie structural elements visible, or if the objective is not of sufficient 

 aperture to include at least thefii-st order spectra, no image of the struc- 

 ture will be seen. Thus in arranging the ilhnnination for 1h(> resolu- 

 tion of a diflicult object— for instance, Ain})liij)l(vrn pcllucida in dots, 

 with a suitable objective — the easiest way is t<» pay little ath iitiou to 




182 procp:i:dixgs of the academy of [March, 



the imasic seen throufrh the ocular, but to ivniovo the latter after 

 focussing, and moilifv the illumination until two spectra at right angles, 

 as well as the dioptric beam, arc visible in the back of the objective. 

 Then on inserting theocular the resolution siiould be apparent at once, 

 or by making any neces.sary spherical corrections by means of adjust- 

 ment collar or tube length; but as long as both spectra are not seen, it 

 is utterly useless to endeavor to effect resolution by altering the adjust- 

 ment. If after satisfactory resolution l)e secured one of the spectra 

 be obscured by an intruding point, only lints at right angles to the other 

 spectrum will remain visible. 



Anotlier well-known exj)eriment is available with any objective 

 capable of resolving Plcurosigma angulatum with a ^•ery small central 

 cone, in which case the six cliaraeteristic diffraction spectra, free from 

 refracted ra^'s. may be seen at margin of objective. A cover glass, 

 on which have been marked with India ink six dots that will cover 

 the diffraction spectra, may now be placed behind the ol)jective, aiul 

 no trace of resolution will be visible; l)ut if the cover glass be rotated 

 30° so as to bring the dots between the spectra, the resolution will be 

 as good as before. We here have a case where radically different re- 

 sults are obtained without changing the character of the screen behind 

 the objective, and any argument that it acts as a diffraction grating 

 is invalid, because if this were the case it should so act and produce 

 similar results in one position as well as the other. It is now evident 

 that there is some connection between these diffracted beams and image 

 formation in the microscope, and the question becomes whether the 

 fomiation of the image is dependent on tiicir presence, or whether they 

 are mereh' accompanying phenomena which happen to appear con- 

 comitantly wuth conditions which would permit of .similar image for- 

 mation in their absence. 



That they are actually image forming rays can be readily proved in 

 several wa3's. the easiest being to throw the objective out of adjustment 

 sufficiently that the rays from its outer zone, which will be the diffracted 

 rays, arc brought to a different focus from those of the dioptric beam 

 in the centre, and the two images can thus be examined successively 

 by a slight change in focus. A more convincing method is that of 

 Rheinberg, in which the rays from outer zone are refracted (jut of the 

 optic axis and the two images can be examined or photographed 

 simultaneously. Still a third method will shortly be referred to in 

 connection with the case of an objective illuminated by a solid cone of 

 light of its own aperture, which must now be considered. 



Tins is a condition we rarely meet in practical microscopy except 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



witli low powers, as no wide-angled objectives have been made that 

 are sufficiently well corrected to stand a full cone without breaking 

 down, unless on objects such as deeply stained Inicilli, where the image 

 is formed princi])ally by absorption and is practically a silhouette. 

 There seems to be no reason why such images should not be regarded 

 as dioptric, although ther.* must be some diffracted rays from the 

 margins which are undoul)tedly utilized in the image. 



When the back of the objective is entirely filled with light, the study 

 of diffraction phenomena becomes difficult, as even with particularly 

 suitable objects the diffraction beams are eclipsed by the brighter 

 dioptric beam. As we open the iris of the condenser, however, it can 

 be seen that the diffracted beams expand to the same extent as the 

 dioptric beam, finally overlapping it and each other, until when the 

 aperture of the objective is entirely filled with dioptric light it must 

 unquestionably be similarly filled with diffracted rays. Unfortu- 

 nately, there seems to be no way in which we can completely separate 

 the beams derived from the two different sources, and the best expe- 

 dient I could devise to obtain some idea of the conditions present con- 

 sists in the use of a semicircular diaphragm in the condenser, so oriented 

 that the left side of the back of objective is completely filled with light 

 up to its margin, while the right side receives no direct rays whatever. 

 Thus we have full cone conditions on one side, while the other will 

 receive only refracted and diffracted rays, or if certain suitable objects 

 are employed nothing but diffracted rays, whose behavior we can 

 study separatel}-. 



P'or this purpose a binocular microscope should be employee I with a 

 specially short mounted objective, say a sixth of about .80 X. A., the 

 back lens of which will come close to the Wenhani prism. All the 

 direct light from the fully illuminated left half of the objective will liow 

 pa.ss up the right-hand tube <^f the microscope, while the diffracted 

 beams from the right-hand half of objective will be reffected up the 

 left tube. Assuming that P. angidatum is again the oi)jcct, as it fur- 

 nishes sj)ectra singularly free from all indications of refracted light, and 

 oriented longitudinally across the field in a right-and-left (.lirection, on 

 examining the back of objective, the previously dark space on the 

 right will be found practically filled by three of the characteristic 

 spectra of the object, and the other three will be present, although 

 invisibh;, in the illumiiuited half, where they will occupy pa'^itions near 

 the margin, lus they can only be derived from central or nearly central 

 dioptric rays. The diffracted beams in right half of objective, being 

 tlerived from the dioi)tric beam which comi)letch' lills the left li;ilf 




l^^t PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Mjuch, 



will extend from dose to the centre of objective to beyond its margin, 

 and correspond tn all essential respects to those present in a fully 

 illuminated objective, as sucli widely diffracted beams nuist be derived 

 from dioptric rays which pass throuf^h that jiortion of the objective's 

 aperture diametrically opposite to them. It is true these beams 

 would be expanded if the full ai)erture was illuminated, but the expan- 

 sion would be jnincipally outside the marjiiii of ol)jective and. as far 

 as present experiment is concerned, be innnaterial. The following 

 rreults demonstrate that three such spectra as we are considering 

 will produce an image identical with that ivsulting from the whole six, 

 and the conditions may be sununcd up a.s follows: 



Through the right-hand tube of the binocular, the image will be 

 produced by a full dioptric beam, suiiiilemented by diffracted beams 

 corresponding to those resulting from a small central illuminating cone, 

 while through the left-hand tube it is derived fi-om diffiacted Ijeams 

 alone, corresponding to those present with a full cone of illumination. 

 On examination, it will be found that both images are fairly well 

 defined, but that the resolution of the fine structure is noticeably 

 sharper and more distinct in the diffraction image through the left 

 tube. 



It will also be noted that the diffraction image is blue in color, and 

 before going further it will l)e well to fully undei-stand how the colors 

 of such images are to be accounted for. The diffracted beams seen 

 at back of objective correspond to any other diffraction spectra and 

 include light of such wave lengths as enter into their formation. The 

 images resulting from their recombination will accordingly have the 

 same color as the light supplied to the microscope, as modified by 

 absorption in passing through the object, provided complete spectra 

 are included within the aperture of the objective; l)ut should part of 

 the spectra be cut off at its margin, the diffraction images will corre- 

 spond to color sensation produced on the retina by light included in 

 that portion of the spectrum admitted, and will accordingly depend 

 on two factors: the distance between the elements of the object and 

 the aperture of the objective. Under the conditions outlined in pres- 

 ent experiment it has already been noted that the diffraction image of 

 P. nngulatum is blue, which is due to the red ends of its spectra being 

 cut off at. margin of the objective's aperture. If Navicvla Lewisiana 

 f)r a coarse .V. rhomhoidcs l)e sulxstituted only the violet end of the spec-, 

 tra will be admitted and the unresolved image l)e similarly colored. 

 On the other hand, /-•/. formosum, whose spectra will be completely 

 admitted, will appear just as white in the diffraction as in the directly 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 185 



illuminated image. Intermediate forms may appear green or even of 

 a \'ellowish cast, but never red. 



The agreement in color of the images seen through the left tube with 

 what would be predicated from the examination of spectra admitted, 

 is further evidence that they are due practically exclusively to dif- 

 fracted rays, but still further experiment is required to demonstrate that 

 they are free from refracted rays. The spectra here seen, and which 

 have previously been considered, consist of an infinite number of over- 

 lapping images of t he apcM-ture in the subst age diaphragm, each produced 

 by light of a different wave length; hence only the extreme ends are 

 practically pure coloi-s, the middle portions of the spectra consisting 

 of a jumble of coloi-s sometimes producing the effect of white light ; but 

 if a narrow slit diaphragm be inserted in the condenser we can secure 

 a spectnun that corresponds in sharpness to that fi'om an ordinary 

 spectroscope. This may be enlarged by the use of a low ])ower 

 objective in the draw tube, focussed on the back focal plane of the fii-st 

 objective as when using an Abbe apertometer. The microscope may 

 now be used a'^ a spectroscope, and by alk)wing the light supjilied to it 

 to pass through some coloring matter which has well-marked absorp- 

 tion bands, these will be visible in the spectra at back of objective. 

 A solution of Eosin, which will be needed for a later experiment, will 

 likewise answer here. It should be of such strength that when placed 

 in a glass trough and examined with a spectroscope of low dispei'sion, 

 it will show a black, well-defined band in the green adjoining the 

 yellow, but allow the remainder of the spectrum to jiass freely. On 

 placing this trough in the i)ath of the light used to illuminate tiie 

 microscope, whirli should ))e an intense one, it will be noted that the 

 absorption band in the spectrum derived from the diatom structure is 

 perfectly black, furnishing a demonstration that it is practically free from 

 refracted rays; for if it contained scattenul refracted rays, as has been 

 rjaimed. the absorption band would not appear l)lack, but of same color 

 a-^ the light illuminating the object, which in this cjise is visually a 

 bright red. 



If we now examine the diffraction image pnxluced under these con- 

 <litions, taking the precaution to so adjust the slit diaphragm tluit the 

 red end of diffraction spectrum is cut off by the niargiti of the objec- 

 tive's aperture, will find that it is just as bhie with this visually red 

 light as it was with white light, owing to the fact that Mosin transmits 

 the blue rays freely; i)Ut the midrii) of the diatom, and particularly 

 any granular incrustation, such as may usually be found at places 

 between the valve and cover-glass, will be tinteij red, indicati^l^ that 




186 PROCEEDINGS OF THK ACADKMV OF [MiUcll, 



refracted rays or ct)in|)leti' diffraftcd beams ciiUm- into tlieir image 

 formation. 



Three important ([iiestious liave now been settled: I'"irstly, tliat the 

 diflfraeted beams from certain structures are free from refracted rays; 

 secondly, that sharp distinct images may result from such diffracted 

 beams exclusively; thirdly, that where such beams are sufHciently 

 separated from the tlioptric beam to permit of their being eclipsed by 

 a suitable screen, no image of the elements producing them will be 

 visible. 



Returning to the conditions of the previous experiment, we will 

 substitute for the diatom a well-stained blood slide, preferably patho- 

 logical, containing large eosinophilous leucocytes. As this is mounted in 

 balsam, the corpuscles would be scarcely visible were they not stained, 

 hence the image must be produced principally by absorption and 

 little refraction can be expected. There must be some diffraction at 

 the margins, but the diffracted beams thus produced will be slightly 

 deflected, and for all practical purposes indistinguishable in their 

 effect from refracted rays. After examining the image through right 

 tube, and noting that practically nothing can be seen save by con- 

 trast of color, even the granules of the leucocytes being "drowned out" 

 by the -wide cone of illumination, the eye should be rested for several 

 minutes in a dark place, to recover its sensitiveness not merely to faint 

 images, but, what is particularly important in this case, to color sen- 

 sation, which will have been impaired by the brilliant red color of the 

 stained blood. When this has been done, the image through left tube 

 may be inspected, and as anticipated it will be found exceedingly 

 faint. Mere sketchy outlines of the corpuscles will be seen, of a red- 

 dish tint, but what will most impress the observer will l)e that the 

 granular texture of the leucocytes will be quite distinctly imaged and 

 of a bluish-gray tint. It is hardly necessary to state that this indicates 

 diffraction origin of the image if the diffracted l^eams are deflected 

 sufficientl}' to be partly cut off at margin of objective, as the distancing 

 of the granules would indicate should be the case. It has already 

 been shown why the visually red Kosin stain presents no serious diffi- 

 culties in the way of a contrasting diffraction image. 



In these experiments the position of the semiciirular diaphragm 

 might be reversed so as to give the diffracted beam the advantage of 

 the direct tube, but in a good Wenham binocular it makes little differ- 

 ence which tube is used. I may be particularly fortunate in this 

 respect, but among my own binoculars this is the case, and in at least 

 two of them the difference in definition between the two images is not 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 187 



greater than is commonly found between that of two objectives of 

 identical construction from the same maker. Right here it maj^ be 

 well to mention two other fallacies regarding the Wenhani ])inocular 

 which seem likely to be perpetuated in microscopical literature, having 

 even foimd a place in Spitta's recent valuable and generally accurate 

 work on the microscope. One of these is. that the beam ])assing up 

 the left tube produces a larger image (unless this is counti racted in 

 the ocular) because it has to travel farther on account of the two 

 reflections in the prism. As I many yeai"s ago explained, the path of 

 the beam through the prism is but slightly over one and a half times 

 the length of the path of direct beam alongside the prism. As this 

 distance is in gla'^s of at least 1.50 R. I. the ray emerges from the pi'ism 

 as if it had traveled only two-thirds as far in air, and the optical tube 

 length is practically identical in both tubes, the difference not reaching 

 a millimeter with an ordinary well proportioned jjrism. The other 

 fallacy is that such binoculars are not suited for higher powei's than 

 about a half inch, while they really work well with objectives up to an 

 eighth incli or higher, if the latter are mounted, a> Wenham himself 

 recommended, in short mounts, so as to avoid parallax l)etwcen back 

 lens and prism. If anyone doubts the immense advantage of stereo- 

 scopic effect with high powei"s, let him attenijit with a monoculir to 

 demonstrate the anatomy, i)articularly the position of the unextruded 

 proboscis, in a glycerine-moimted specimen of the motile condition of 

 our too common pest, the San Jose scale, which I have never seen cor- 

 rectly figured, and then note the difTerence when a binocular i.s em- 

 ployed. The sculpturing on spores and caj)illitium of Myxomycctes. 

 spores of ferns, etc., afTord other goful te.sts of its efliciency. 



Returning to diffraction j)henomena, 1 alni(»sl hesitate to rcfn- to 

 the two e.xperiments by which Wright seems to think he has dcinohshcd 

 the Abbe theory, jus their fallacy is so self-evident that it must have 

 been at once recognized by every microscopist ha\iiig more than the 

 most elementary acquaintance with tlic sul)ject. The assumption, in 

 the fii-st experiment, tiiat wIkmi the aperture of (»bjectivc is fully 

 illuminated there are no diffracted rays present, because tiicy cannot 

 be seen, is absmvl, and needs n(» further consideration; but ;iiiyone 

 desiring to know just what is th(> character of the diffracted beams 

 resulting from any particular struct>u-e tmder the conditictus s|)ecifie(l. 

 may secure the information l)y employing a pinhole di:i|ihragiii in :i 

 freely moving carrier cc»ruieeted with substage condenser. A circle 

 shoiild be drawn ()n a piece of paper to represent back of objective, 

 and the difTracted beams visible plotted in with a red .-md liiue pencil. 




1S8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Maicll, 



Diaphraj:!!! may tlicii !»(> inovtnl slif^htly and llic dilTiactcd l)caius 

 a.uain rocoiiU'd on same (lra\vinf>;. This can ho n^jH-atrd until llio illu- 

 mination from the pinhole has travci'sed every portion of the ohji etive's 

 apertun>, or until the patience of the observer is exhausted, when, if the 

 diaphrajim he removed and the ohjective fully illuminated, it will he 

 ahsolutely certain that all the tliffracted hcams icpre.^ented on the 

 composite sketch will still he present within the aperture of the f)bjcc- 

 tive. Twenty yeai"s a<:;o Ahbe ])uhlished a paper dealing specially 

 with fully illuminated ajjerturcs. 



The other experiment described, whicli states that the imajie of an 

 Abbe diffraction jilate, illuminated throufrh a narrow central apertui-e, 

 and examined under a one-inch ol)jective, becomes invisible when 

 sunlight is used as the source of illumination, would be e(iually falla- 

 cious if true, as the glare of such light might prevent any image l^eing 

 seen, but its presence could be demonstrated by receiving it on a ground 

 glass screen or by photographing it. But even the facts are here mis- 

 stated. I did not doubt that the image might be f)l)scurcd by the 

 l)linding effect of direct sunlight, and merely carried out the experi- 

 ment to demonstrate that the image would appear on the screen of a 

 camera, which from photomicrographic experience I knew Avould be 

 the case; but I found not only that the lines were well defined on the 

 ground glass of the camera, but also were equally distinct when exam- 

 ined directly through the microscope. Although "Wright's dcscrij)tion 

 of the experiment had been followed in every detail, the conditions 

 were likewise varied in every possible way that might lead to the 

 results claimed. A shade prevented the sunlight f I'om i-oaching any part 

 of the microscope except the mirror, but in addition it was wrapped 

 in several folds of a heavy focussing cloth. ])reventing the po.ssible 

 entrance of any light save the narrow central beam, which was modified 

 in size first with the iris and then by a special!}' made pinhole 

 diaphragm, much smaller than could be secured with the iris, or with 

 the diaphragm accompanying the Ablie diffraction apparatus, iccom- 

 mended by Wright for the purpose. The disk of the sun was fociissed 

 sharply in the plane of the lines and also above and below; the con- 

 den-ser removed and sunlight merely restricted by the minute and 

 larger diaphragms tried; eyepieces from two-inch to one-fifth inch 

 employed; the fine one-inch objective at first used removed and 

 replaced by the poorest one of this power in my collection, a cheap 

 single system affair of low aperture; but it was useless to change the 

 conditions, as under any of them the image remained just as sharp 

 and di.stinct as it wtxild have been with lamplight, and the only result 




1909.] NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 1 S9 



of an hour'.s experimenting wa.s a tired eye and the conviction that it 

 was absolutely impossible for anyone with eyesight good enough to 

 use the microscope at all to perform this experiment with the results 

 claimed. Nevertheless, devoid as it is of the slightest basis in either 

 fact or deduction, it is offered as one-half of all the evidence necessar}^ 

 to refute so well considered a theory as that of Abbe. As it should 

 succeed under the dioptric theory, it indicates the inadequacy of that 

 theory alone to account for microscopical image formation. 



One more experiment, of the many made, may be worth mention- 

 ing. For this will be required an objective that will stand full cone 

 illumination, and a Xobert test plate or other series of rulings will 

 supply the object. Xo objective of more than very low power and 

 aperture will fully fill the specificatioas, which would require resolu- 

 tion with a full cone, equal to that with oblique light, but an old »Spen- 

 cer one-half inch of 70°, which approaches perfection more closely than 

 any other objective I have seen, was found to answer the purpose. 

 If illuminated with a cone completely filling its aj)erture, it will be 

 found that the seventh band of the Nobert plate is well resolved, and 

 if the aperture of the illumination be cut down as far as the iris will 

 close, so the dioptric beam seen at back of objective will not exceed 

 onc-twenty-fifth of the diameter of the back lens, the third band, 

 which is jiLst twice as coai"sely ruled as the seventh, will still be ea.-^ily 

 and distinctly resolved. Now the aperture of the illuminating cone 

 has been cut to one-twenty-fifth, and l)y a strict interpretation of the 

 dioptric theorj' the resolution should be impaired to a similar extent, 

 but it is found to i)e one-half as great as with the full aperture. This 

 will be answered by the statement that tlie image is ncnv formed by 

 refracted rays, outside the dioptric beam. Very well, if that is the case, 

 then one-half of the aperture of the objective is suflicient to resolve 

 the third band, and it can therefore do no harm if we contract the 

 aperture just a little, say 10 per cent., by means of an iris i)ack of it. 

 It will be found, iiowevcr, that as soon as this is done tiie lines com- 

 pletelv disappear. In fact, just as soon as two minute diffracted 

 l)eams, visible at margin of obj(>ctive. are partially eclipsed resolution 

 is at an end. 



This experiment, dealing with the "mystery of tjie dark space'' 

 wliich led Abbe to evolve a new thcoiy, is introduced not to demon- 

 strate that the unilluniinatcd portion of an objective's aperture assists 

 in image formation, which every microscopist must already know, 

 but to call attention to the fact that it df)cs so in a definite manner. 

 I'lidcr the explanation given l)y the advocates of the dioptric theory 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [M;ucll, 



alone, ilifft'ivnt results should bo socund arcordiuf!; to tlic clKiractcr 

 of the t)l)je('t. lu the caso of structure that couUl refract but little 

 light the resolution would be cut down to 10 ju-r cent, or less, owing 

 to the large "antipoint," which would th^creasc in size and permit of 

 greater resohition as the power of the object to refract rays increased, 

 until in exceptional cases resolution i)ractically ccjual to that with 

 a full cone should be attainal)le. On the contrary it will always be 

 found that, without reganl to tiie character of the ol^ject, the resolution 

 with central light will be just about one-half that with a full cone, or 

 in other words, will correspond to the ditTracted beams admitted by 

 the objective. 



In the absence of suitable rulings, the fact refened to may be demon- 

 strated with diatoms or any other objects tiiat may be at hand in 

 sufficient variety, by noting tiie finest structure resolved imder the two 

 conditions of illumination, and then carefully counting the elements 

 of the structure resolved in a given space. On a Moller 60 diatom 

 test plate in styrax, the markings on all its forms having been accu- 

 rately counted and recorded, it was found that the above objective 

 with full cone, resolved Grammatophora serpentina, 48,000 j)er inch, 

 and with central light reached its limit at the third Navicida Ijjra, 

 24,800 per inch, confirming the results from the rulings. 



This objective, it may be mentioned, will resolve with oblique light, 

 Navicu'a Lewisiana, with over 58,000 markings per inch, and thus go 

 considerably beyond the usually accepted theoretical limits for its 

 aperture. The recorded aperture of the objective, measured when 

 purcha.sed many yeare ago, was .57 N. A., and the markings of the 

 diatom noted as varying from 57,000 per inch near the ends to 59,000 

 at centre of valve. After this resolution was found to be unmistakable, 

 both measurements were repeated. The extreme rays entering the 

 objective were determined by an Abbe apertometer placed on revolving 

 stage with vernier and illuminated by edge of small lamp flame across 

 the room. Two readings to tenth degrees at each "end reaction" 

 agreed exactly, and the results, calculated by taking sine of the half 

 angle multiplied by the refractive index of the apertometer, gave a 

 numerical [aperture of .588 which represents the outside limits. 



A portion of the diatom valve, about half way between centre and 

 end, which had been noted as being sharply resolved from raphe to 

 margin, was then accurately counted under a high power, and the 

 mean of a number of closely agreeing counts at slightly different 

 points proved to be 58,800 per inch. The number in a full thousandth 

 i nch wa.s counted to avoid the possil)ility of error in a smaller distance. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 191 



On glancing down the tube at back of objective when (Hatom was 

 resolved, this result was at once accounted for, as only the blue and 

 violet of the diffracted beam, with the merest tint of green, was ad- 

 mitted, and it therefore became apparent that for an objective as 

 perfectly corrected as this one, we must use the coliunn calculated for 

 the "F" line, and not that for the "E" line, which is generally accepted 

 as more nearly representing the effect of white light. It is hardly 

 necessary to add that the resolution was effected with light from an 

 ordinary microscope lamp, witliout color screen or other aid, as I never 

 test an objective under any conditions, as to illumination or mounting 

 medium, that will differ from those under which it will be used in 

 routine work. It will be noted that the performance of this objective, 

 when correctly interpreted, is strongly confirmatory of the Abbe 

 theory. 



Before proceeding to draw a conclusion from these heterogeneous 

 and raml>ling notes, collated from records of work at odd times during 

 past couple of 3''ears, I wish to reiterate the impartial attitude assumed 

 in undertaking consideration of the subject. If there was any preju- 

 dice, it was in favor of at least a partial acceptance of the dioptric 

 theory. When Wright's book was received and read, although recog- 

 nizing many of its fallacies and rendered suspicious by its- commen- 

 dation of such old and discredited devices as the tandem microscope, 

 better known here as "megamicroscope," and the insertion of a stop 

 in the axis of the ol)jective or Ramsden disk of the ocular to produce 

 (lurk ground illumination, which cqvuils the Abbe diffraction ajipara- 

 tus in its ability to conjure up "optical nightmares," I was neverthe- 

 less profoundly impressed, and after re-reading it several times and 

 performing some of the experiments with which I had been previously 

 unacfjuainted, concluded that the Abbe theory must undergo at least 

 some modification; and if I no longer hold that view, it is ])rincipally 

 as the result of experiments which were inaugurated with the idea 

 of demoastrating exactly the revci-se of xhc (•oiiclusions 1 w;is com- 

 pelled to draw from them. 



Much will of coui"se depend on ju-t what is undei^stood to be included 

 in Abbe's theory, on which various writers are by no means agreed. 

 In his own papeiN .\bbe appeal's to a.ssume a thorough acquaintance 

 with optical science on the part of his readci-s that few of us posse-ss, 

 hence he makes little reference to known facts and theories, Imt 

 occasional pa.'^sages show that he did not neglect to give them full 

 consideration. In the start he iUH|Uestionably recognized the ( ff< ct 

 of al>''orj>tion and refraction in producing the image, and Jiis theory 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Mnicll' 



ro<iuirc.s the presence of both dioptric and diffracted beams. Fur- 

 thermore, he lays stress on the fact tliat diffraction in the aperture 

 (if the objective will result in every point being imaged by a "disper- 

 sive circle" (the "antipoint'' of Gordon) of greater or less size accord- 

 ing to circumstances, and recommends the examination of a brightly 

 illuminated object through a pinhole one-two hundred and fiftieth of 

 an inch in diameter in a card or piece of tinfoil, to secure an idea 

 of what must be the appearance of the best image that could be pro- 

 duced through a microscope magnifying five thousand diametei^, 

 even if the construction was perfect. 



If his later application of the diffraction theory to the images of 

 coarser details, earlier termed "absorption images," could be inter- 

 preted as a denial that any refracted rays, outside the dioptric beam, 

 entered into the image at all, then indeed some modification is neces- 

 sary, as most objects unquestionably refract light outside the dioptric 

 beam ; and not only do the simplest laws of refraction require that these 

 rays find a place in the image, but there is no other way of accounting 

 for what becomes of them. It is more likely, however, that Abbe 

 regarded this fact as self-evident. At any rate, the important work 

 he undertook was not to refute the dioptric theory, but to supplement 

 it by accounting for phenomena which it then, as now, failed to ex- 

 plain. He has done this in so eminently satisfactory a manner that it 

 would appear that his theory, in all essential details, must be accepted, 

 unless someone can bring indisputable experimental proof of the 

 formation of a microscopical image that goes beyond its possibilities. 

 Any e.xperiment that merely demonstrates failure to fully realize the 

 possibilities of the Abbe theory, on account of interference with image 

 formation due to diffracted rays arising in the aperture of objective, 

 or anywhere except in the object itself, is not pertinent, as this 

 unavoidable limitation was evidently fully recognized in evolving 

 the theorv. 




1909.1 .NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 193 



April 6. 

 Arthur Erwi.v Browx, ScD.. \'ice-Presideiit, in the Chair. 



l"iirty-.six per.soiis present. 



The Publication Committee announced the reception of a paper 

 entitled: 



" Polychaetous Annelids from Monterey liay and San Die^o. Cali- 

 fornia." By J. Percy Moore (April 6). 



The Recording Secretary read a slicjrt history of the Academy, 

 prepared for publication in the Founders' Week Memorial Volume. 



April 20. 

 Arthur Krwi.v Hrowx. Sc.l)., \'ice-President, in the Chair. 



Eighteen members pre-sent. 



The death of Dr. Persifor Frazer, a member. April 7, 1909. was 

 announced. 



Dr. H. a. Pilsbry made a C(nniiumication on barnacles, with 

 special reference to certain recently found commensal foriris. 



.lojiii (;rii)b('l and .Mis. illizabeth IV (iiil)bel were electetl members. 



Till- following were ordered to l)e printed: 



l.l 




1«I4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [A] nil. 



ARACHNIDA FROM COSTA RICA. 

 HV NATHAN HANKS. 



During the past few yeui-s the writer has recei^■ocl large series of 

 spidei-s and dadtly-longlegs from Costa Rica for identification. ^lost 

 of these were collected and sent by Prof. J. Fid. Tristan, of San Jns6. 

 For a few yeai-s the late Dr. Paul Biolley sent nie several lots, but 

 soon turned the whole matter over to Prof. Tristan. Most of the 

 specimens were collected at or near San Jos6, but there are a con- 

 siderable number from the Pacific slope of the country. 



The majority of the species are of couree already recorded loy the 

 Biologia C entrali- America , but about 70 species are new and about 

 20 more not treated in that work. A few species recorded from 

 Costa Rica in the Biologia are not in the collections sent me. ]\Iany 

 of the Costa Rican records in the Biologia are based on collections 

 from Dr. Bif)lley and Prof. Tristan, although not expressly so stated 

 in that work. The collection is similar to most tropical collections 

 of spiders — a large number of Attidse, Epeirida^, and Clubionidae, few 

 Drassidse and Thomisida3. The number of Phalangida is truly remark- 

 able. 



The web-building species show a considerable number that also 

 occur in our country, but of those not l)uilding webs there are very 

 few that extend into our borders. About seven or eight are species 

 commonly found in houses in the tropics of America. 



Altogether there are 288 species, 65 of which are Epeiridse, 48 

 Attidie and 33 Phalangida. Records without any name are all from 

 Prof. Tristan; elsewhere the collectoi-s are given, "B. and T." signi- 

 fying "Biolley and Tristan." Some species were collected by Mr. 

 Picado: a few by Me.ssrs Lankester and Maxon. 



THERAPHOSID^. 

 Eurypelma longipes Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Arachn. Aran., II, 21, 1S97. 



Machuca. 



Eurypelma •eemanni Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Arachn. Aran., II, 2G, 1897. 

 Atenas, August (Picado), and Pozo Azal de Pirris (Pac), 150 m., 

 April (Biolley). 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 195 



Earypelma vagans Au-.-erer. 



\'crli. zool. hot. Gcs. Wicii, l.sT.'i. l'.)7. 



Uricuajo (Pac), 200 in.. Janiuirv (H. and T.). and San .Toa(|nin. 

 Tapinanchenius redancus Kar-ch 



Z.itsclir. f. p's. Xaturw., LIII, .IST. ISSO. 



Turrijal, San Jose ; Pacaca; Cangrial de Ai?erri ; Rio Reventazon, near 

 Santa Clara (Paf.), December (Biollcy): Turriall^a: and San Jo>;e. 



Sphserobothria hoffmanni Karsch. 



Zeitschr. f. gps. Xaturw.. I, II. p. .536, 187'.). 



Herran; and San .Jo.se, in the house.-^ and in trunks of old trees. 



Sohizopelma bicarinatnm CambridKe. 



Biol. C. Am. .\raclm. Aran., II, 2S, 1X97. 



Pacaya.^, X. de Cervantes (Atl.). March. 1.500 m. (Biolley). 



Acanthopelma rufescena Cambridge. 



Hi.. I. C. Am. Araclin. Aran., II, 34, ls97. 



Esparte (B.). 



Ischuothele guianensis Walckenaer. 

 Uir-t. Nat. Apt., I, 23, IS.37. 



El Higuito, near San Mateo (Pac), 280 ni. (B. and T.); and Kmbou- 

 chiire dii Rio Jesus Maria (Pac). Jainiary (B. and T.). 



Hapalopas pentaloris Simon. 



.\im. .<...-. Kilt. France, IS-SK, 216. 



San Jose, under stones (B.); Aserri, Februaiy (B.); Atenas (Picado), 

 and Salinas de Albina (Pac.), January (B. and T.). 



Fafias atromentarins Simon. 



.\iin. .<<K-. Ent. France, ISHH, 213. 



Machuca. 

 Pachylomerus ragosas Karsrh 



Z. it-.hr. I". K' s. Xaturw., Mil. p. ."iSS, l.SKO. 



San Jos6; and Santa Maria Dota, January, one with not from the 

 ground. 

 Metriopelma zebrata n -p. 



Carapace red-brown, clothtil with gdldrn <ir t;iwn\' hairs, nmst 

 dense on the sides near margin. I><'gs, sternum, and vmtcr black, 

 black-haired, but the legs with some long tawtiy hairs. Abdumcn 

 black, with four nearly vertical golden bands on each side, reaching 

 up to a middle golden area on <lorsum; n)any long tawny hairs on the 

 alxloinen. begs long and slender; with many spin<>s on the hind pairs; 

 tibia- I and II of male withotit spurs, but with the two pairs of spines, 




1% PROCEEDINGS OF THF-: ACADEMY OF [April, 



as ill till' other species of tlie f:;enus. Metatai-si 1 and 11 scoiiulat(> 

 on apical half; tai"sus I\' with scopula divided by a row of hairs. 

 Length 'AS nun. 



From Jesus .Maria. Costa Rica (Biolley), and San Domingo de San 

 Mateo (Maxon). 

 Metriopelma morosus n. sp. 



Hlack; c-ara|iat'e reddish, venter black, coxa' ami sternum daik red- 

 brown. Ck)thed with fine red-brown hairs and long, erect bristles, 

 hintl legs with many spines, tai"sus IV with scopula divided 1)}^ a row 

 of haii-s; the long hairs on abdomen more tawny. I.iegs long and 

 slender; tibi:e I and II each with two pairs of spines l)elow. as in the 

 other species of the genus, no spure. Length 25 nun. 



From Embouchure du Rio Jesus Maria, Platanal, Costa Rica, 

 January (Biolley and Tristan). El Higuito, near San Mateo (Pac), 

 250 m., January (B. and T.), and Uricuajo (Pac), 200 m., Januar}-- 

 (B. and T.). I)iffei*s at once from the two known species b}' the shape 

 of bulb of palpus. 



FILISTATID^. 

 Filistata hibernalis Hentz. 



Spid.r.^ r. S.. 23, 1S75. 



San Jose, in the houses; and Tiribi. 



OONOPID^. 



Djsderina plena Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. .\raclin. .\ran., I, 143, 1895. 



La Palma. 



SCYTODID^. 



Scytodes championi Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Araclm. Aran., II, 51, 1899. 

 From El Higuito, near San Mateo (Pac), 200 m., Januarv (B. and 

 T.). 



Scytodes fusca Walckenaer. 

 Iii.'^. Apt., I, 272, 1837. 



Huacaste. 

 Scytodes intricata n. sp. 



Cephalothorax j'ellowish, with black markings as indicated in the 

 figure, very heavy behind; legs densely banded and spotted with 

 black, the bands narrow, often oblicjue and sometimes connected to 

 the spots; mandibles each with a black stripe curved outwaid near 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 197 



the tip. Abdomen densely streaked with black, a larger median black 

 spot behind middle, and behind this the abdomen is pale with a few 

 trianfTular black spot.s near the spinnerets, venter black on l)ase extend- 

 ing back each side, median area pale; tips of coxa? black, sternum 

 mostly black, a pale median stripe and some spots each side; vulva 

 shows two plates each side similar to .S. longipes, but farther apart, 

 and not narrowed at base. Cephalothorax rather longer than in many 

 species. Length 6.5 mm. 



Specimens from Tcgas de Cartago (Tristan and Biolley). Tiribi (T.). 

 San Jose (T.), Guayabo (Alfaro), Turricares (T.), Cartago (Picado). 

 La Palma (T.), Surubres (B.), and Embouchure du Rio Josus Maria 

 (Pac.) (H. and T.). 



DRASSIDiE. 

 £:hemus tropicalis n sp. 



Cephalothorax yellowish. A. .M. K. <»n black sjjots; legs rather more 

 brownish on basal joints; abdomen brown, venter paler brown; 

 sternum and spinnerets yellowish. P. M. E. oval, about one diameter 

 apart, closer to oval P. S. E., which nearly touch A. S. E. ; A. AL E. 

 one diameter apart, claser to the A. S. E. Sternum one and one- 

 fourth times longer than broad, pointed behind. Legs rather long, 

 a Couple of small spines luuler tibia' I and U, all femora with several 

 s|)ines above. Readily distinguished from E. pedestris by the P. M. K. 

 well se])arated, and l)y the color of the legs, etc. I^ength 4.5 nun. 



I'roni Chiral Paraiso, Costa Rica (Tristan and liiolley). 



CLUBIONID^. 

 Trachelas morosas n -i' 



Cei)hulothora.\, mandibles, and sternum red-brown ; cephalothorax 

 granulate, sternum nearly smooth, maxilla- without apical proce.^s, 

 rounded at tip. Logs yellowish brown, leg I more red-brown, espe- 

 cially at b:is('; abdomen dark brown, haiiy, without scutum. By 

 these characters it would l>e near the 7'. spinfrr of the Bioloqia, 

 but tliflfei-s at once in the shape of the style to the palpal bulb, which 

 here is .-^hort and stout; the tibial jirocoss is (|tiite large and long. 

 Length 7 mm. 



( )ne male from .\giias Caliente. Costa Rica (Picado). 



Trachelas bispinoons ('aml>ri<lK<> 



liiol. <". Am. .\rai-lin. .Vruii., 11, 7'.», IsW'.l. 



La Palma; Tablazo; Santa Maria l)f)ta; an<l Chiral i'araiso (ji. 

 aixl T.). 




19S rR<H"Ki:DiN'C,s of the acadkmv of [April, 



Trachelas similis Cainbrhlro 



l<i..l. V. Am. Anu-liii. Aran., II, NO, 1M>U. 



Tejar de Cartiigo. 



Corinna pictipes n. .«i> 



Cephalotliora.x dark retl-hrowii. almost l)la('k. inaiKlihlos the same, 

 sternum also; abdomen l)laek, witli a median triangular yellow si)ot, 

 behind clothed with some yellowish liair: ccijlialothorax with some 

 golden hair. Legs variegated; co.xie pale, trochanters with black 

 spot in front and behind; femora black near l)ase and near tip each 

 side; patella? dark n(>ar tip; tibia^ mostly brown, apical half of 1 and 

 tip of n' pale, metatarsi and tarsi mostly pale brown. Cephalothorax 

 nearly twice as long as wide, narrowed behind, al)ove with a curved 

 transvei"se furrow in front of the doi*sal groove; the posterior eye-row 

 is slightly procurved, the eyes almost equidistant; the mandibles 

 large and slightly porrect ; about six fine teeth on lower margin of 

 fang groove; palpi long, very hairy and black, except the basal joint; 

 the sternum is plainly longer than broad, and shows each side near 

 coxne, I a distinct oval depression; abdomen elongate; legs slender, 

 with few spines. Length 8 mm. 



From Tejar de Cartago, Costa Rica (Tristan). 



Corinna modesta n. -i> 



Carapace, sternum, and tips of legs red-l)rown. basal part of legs 

 yellow-))rown, mandibles nearly black; abdomen dark V)rown, paler 

 beneath. Clypeus plainly higher than A. M. E. ; six teeth on lower 

 margin of the fang groove; sternum and legs not granuiose; foiu- 

 pail's of spines under tibia I, no apicals, two \mder metatarsi, three 

 pairs under tibia 111; vulva with two circular cavities in a hai'd plate, 

 this plate is punctate in front and on the sides. Length Id mm. 



From Santa ]\raria, Costa Rica (Tristan). 



Corinna mucronata Cambridge. 



I'.iol. C. Am. Araclin. Aran., II, (>'.), l.S'JO. 

 San Jose; La Palma; Escazii; Tablazo (B.); and Cartago (I'icado). 



Megalostrata formidabilis ('ambri<lKe. 



Hi..l. C. Am. -Vraclm. Aran., I, lOd, 1N93. 

 Santa .Maria Dota; Cartago; and San Jos<§. 



Clabiona tristani n ^i<. 



Carapace yellowish brown, darker in eye-region; mandibles red- 

 brown; legs yellowish, metatarsi and tarsi darker. Abdomen black 

 above, a pale median area to the middle, and a series of pale chevrons 

 behind; venter pale. A. M. E. barely, if any, larger than the P. M. E., 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 199 



not one-half diameter apart and still nearer to the laterals; P. M. E. 

 fully two diameters apart and about as far from the laterals ; legs with 

 long erect haii"s. tibiip I and II with 2-2-2 spines beneath, last apical, 

 small; metatai^i with a pair at base; metatai-si and tai-si scopulate 

 on legs I and II. Tibial spur of male palpus similar to that of C. 

 tricuspis, but narrower and somewhat different at tip. as shown in the 

 figure. Length 10 mm. 



From Tablago, Costa Rica (Tristan). 



Clubiona tigrina Cambridge. 



Hiol. ('. Am. .\rachn. Aran., I, 23s, Isi)s. 



San Joaquin Heredia Espinach; Santa Maria Dota; Tiribi ; and 

 Escazii. 



Clubiona tumivulva " f\>- 



Cephalothorax bright ycllowi.-^h, more brownish in front, mandibles 

 yellow-brown; legs and sternum pale yellowish, abdomen gray above, 

 on jiosterior part with black nuirks, a median herring-bone mark and 

 sf)me spots on the uj^per sides, black. Logs I and II with a soopula 

 below tai-si and metatarsi, and on the apical part of tibia-. Vulva 

 with a very broad median tongue, behind tiiis tlic bhu-k area is greatly 

 swollen out. Length 10 nun. 



From Hatillo, Costa Rica (Picado). I)iffei*s from ('. tif/ri)ins ]>y 

 siuipe of vulva. 



Chemmis frederici Simon. 



Hist. Nat. Araipn. (M. 2), 11, LM."), 1S9S. 



Santa Maria Dota; Tcjar dc Cartago; San .lose; and I'ortuua. 



Chiracanthium ferum Cambri>lK>-. 



I'.iol. C. .\iii. .\rarliri. Aran., I, 22S, 1K<)7. 



Cartago. 

 Pelayo insignii n ^i> 



Cephalothora.\ yellowish, eye-region black, also the clypeus. extend- 

 ing back on each side a short distance; mandibles black; legs and 

 palpi yellowish; abdomen yellowish, a black stripe on each anterior 

 sidf, and a median black stripe, forked l)ehind; behind it are two 

 broad black chevrons, and then an apical spot, venter pale, with a 

 broad median band from the lung-slits to the ventral furrow, extended 

 slightly at each apical corner, and then a broad band from the furrow 

 to the spinnerets, extended each side to the sj)imierets. Posterior 

 eye-row a trifle recurved, the 1*. M. K. fartfier from each other than from 

 the equal P. S. K. Tibia I and II with 2-2 -2 spines, la.«<t small, a|)ical. 

 Ventral furrow of abdomen much nearer to spinnerets tluiii to, base. 

 LeuL'th b") mm. 




200 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April 



Voloaii I'da-^. April. Costa Rica. The inaikiiiiis of alKloiin-n are 

 very characteristic. 



Strotarchus minor » :<p. 



Cephalothorax and le^s yello\v-l)ro\vn, head darker; mandibles red- 

 brown ; alxlonien above antl below gray-brown ; sternum yellow-brown ; 

 maxillip and lip black, tip of palpus black. Legs long and slender, 

 with few weak spines beneath, 2-2 under tibia^. 1 and II; vulva with 

 large transvei"se concavity in front, behind is a chitinous ridge, and 

 behind that is a curved dark line each side. Length S nun. 



From Turrialba, Costa Rica (Tristan). 



Aysha minota Cambriilge. 



Binl. C. Am. Arachn. Aran., II, 99, 19()U. 

 San Jos^. 



Aysha simplex Cambriil(?e. 



]ii()l. (". Am. Aradm. Aran., I, 227, 1897. 



Anyphaena delicatula n. sp. 



Cephalothorax yellowish, irregularly marked with blackish each 

 side; eyes on black spots; abdomen pale, with many large grayish 

 spots above nearly covering the dorsum; legs pale, slightly marked 

 with black; sternum and venter pale. P. ^I. E. over one diameter 

 apart, fully as far from the equal P. S. E. ; A. AI. E. plainly smaller than 

 A. S. E. Tibice and metatai^si I and II with 2-2 spines beneath; 

 abdomen rather short and broad, the ventral furrow at about middle 

 of venter. Length 5 mm. 



One female from Tablago, Costa Rica (Tristan). 



Anyphaena plana Cambridge. 



Biol. C. .\m. Arachn. Aran., II, 97, 1900. 

 La Palma; and Poas Volcan. 



Anyphaena simplex CambriilKc. 



Hiol. (". Am. Arafhn. Aran., I, 124, 1.S94. 



San Jos6. 



Teadis elegans n. up. 



Cephalothorax brown, a median pale stripe from back of ])ars cepha- 

 lica to tip, and a lateral pale stripe, much broken up in front; man- 

 dibles red-brown; legs yellowish, densely marked with small black 

 spots, almost forming a band near the base of tibia, extreme bases 

 of tibiae (especially III and IV) are very jjale. Abdomen brown, 

 with four triangular median black spots from the middle to tip, the 




1909.] NATURAL SCIE.VCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 201 



basal one is divided; venter pale; sternum dark, with pale median area. 

 Posteritjr eye-row prueurved, eyes equal; P. M. E. less than diameter 

 apart, fully diameter from the laterals ; A. M. E. very small ; legs slender, 

 tibiiB I and II with 2-2 spines beneath, no ajjical ])air visible; 

 metatarsi I and II with one pair of spines beneath; ventral furrow at 

 middle of the venter. Length 5 mm. 

 Fnjm Tablago, Costa Rica (Tristan). 



Teadis gentilis Cambriilge. 



Hi-.l. ('. Am. .\rad)n. Aran.. I, 1 '.»<). l.S9(3. 

 San Jose. 



Teudis bicolor n sp 



CVi)halothora.x pale yellowish, legs and i)al])i i)ale. mandibles pale 

 a-< also the sternum; abdomen olive-brown, above and below without 

 markings. Eyes rather close together, posterioi-s equidistant ; A. M. E. 

 close together, and a.s near to larger A. S. E. The metatarsi I and 1 1 

 scopulate, and with one ])air of long basal sjiines. and two laterals; 

 all spines veiy long; legs long and slender; abdomen rather elongate. 

 Length 10 mm. 



From Aguas Caliente. Costa Rica (Picado). 



Sillas patas Cambri'lste. 



liiol. (". .\m. Arachii. Aran., I, JOO, 1S9(). 



Tablazo. 



Sillas longispina ('ainl>ri<lKe 



Hiol. C. Aim. Aradiii. .\raii.. IJ, HH. llMHi. 



Prom El Higuito, near San Mateo (P;ic.). 20(1 m., January (H. and 

 T.). 

 Eaticharui frontalis » -i> 



Cephalothorax pale yellow ; mandibles black, paler on base; legs 

 pale yellowish, tips of tai-si black; maxilhe black; sti-rnum yellow; 

 abdomen yellowish gray abov»' and below. Cephahithorax rather 

 l)road and high in front, no dorsal groove; eye-rows broad; .\. .M. K. 

 slightly larger than the S. K., p<»sterior eyes sul)e(|ual, the P. M. Iv 

 as far apart as from the P. S. Iv ; legs slender; mandibles high, not 

 porrect; one spine under tibia 1, a |)air under bjise of metatai*sus I; 

 last joint of upper spinnerets long, but not jis long as in K. frmx; 

 vulva shows a large elliptical cavity. Length S nun. 



From Aguas Caliente, Januar>', Costa Rica (Picado), 



HERSILIID^ 

 Tama mexieana <'ainhri<lKo. 



Hi..!. C. .\m. AnicJin. .\raii , I. 107, iMCi. t 



La N'erbena: Surubres (H.): and San .lose, on the branches of trees. 




202 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 

 AGALENID^. 



[April, 



Agalena costata C'amliritlKe 



Hiul. (". Am. Araolin. Aran.. II, XW, \W2. 



Tejar de Cartilgo (B. and T.): and Santa Maria Dcita. 



Agalena penetralis Cambridge. 



Biol. C\ Am. Arachn. Aran., II. 337, lUOJ. 

 Turrialba; Poas Volcano; Tiribi; Tal)lazo, September; Tejar de 

 Cartago (H. and T.); La VerlxMia; and San Jose (Pioado). 



Tegenaria «p 



Ininiatnre .'specimens from Tablazo and I'ortima. 



Metafecenia albolineata Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Arachn. Aran., II, :W\, 1902. 



Tiribi. 



DICTYNID^. 



Dictyna parietalis Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Arachn. Aran., I, 171, 1S9G. 

 San Jose, oth July (Picado); and Tejar de Cartdgo. 



ULOBORID^. 



Uloborus geniculatuB Olivier. 



Encycl. Metliod., IV, 214, 1789. 



La \'er])ena. 

 Uloborus spernax Cambridge. 



Bi.-l. C. Am. Arachn. Aran., I, 265, 1902. 

 Orosi, 6th July (Picado). 



Uloborus plumipes Lucaf. 



Explcr. .\lg(:T. Anim. Art., I, 252, 1X49. 

 Orosi, Oth July (Picado). 



Uloborus signatUS Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Arachn. Aran., I, 204, 189S. 



La \'erbena. 



PHOLCID^. 



Physocyclus dugesi Simon. 



.Vnn. .-^oc. Ent. France, 1S93, 320. 



Santa Maria Dota; Tejar de Cartago; Paraiso; and San Jo.se, a house 

 spider. 



Modisimus inornatus Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Arachn. .\ran., I, 149, 1895. 



La Palma. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



THERIDIID^. 

 Theridiam fordnm Keyserling. 



.Spinn. Aiuer. Therid., I, 23, 1884. 

 Santa Maria Dota; Tejar de Cartage, July; Tiribi; La X'erbena; 

 Anonos, September; Fortuna; Escazii; Turrialba; La Bolca (Picado); 

 Puuta Arenas (Biolley); San Joaquin Heredia Espinacli; San Jose, 

 March; and Uricuajo (Pac.) (B. and T.). 



Theridium oblivium Cambri'lge. 



Biol. C. Am. Arachn. Aran., I, 207, 1896. 

 Tejar de Cartago (B. and T.); La Palma; and La Wrbena. 

 Theridium taeniatum KeyserliiiR. 



Spimi. Amer. Tfu-rid., I. 12, 1884. 

 Turrialba. Tablazo; and Escazii. 



Theridiam mixtam Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Arachn. Aran., I, 206, 1896. 



Turrialba; Orosi, 2d July (Picado); and San Joaquin Heredia 

 E>pinach. 



Theridiam compressum Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Arachn. Aran., II, 3.S3, 1002. 

 Oro<i, 19th July (Picado). 



Theridium florens Cambridge. 



Biol. ('. .\m. Arachn. Aran., I. 20.j, 1,S96. 

 Tejar de Cartdgo (B. and T.); Fortuna. with cocoon; Cartago. July, 

 with nest; and San Jose (I'icado). 



Theridium rufipei Luca> 



Explor. Algi'-ric, Z«<<\.. Ill, 2<;:{, l.sl'.i. 

 Santa .Maria I)(jta; and San Josr (H.). 



Theridium fordulum u -p 



Ccphalolhora.x pale yellowish, a nic<lian bhu'k stripe over clypeus 

 through eye-area, and Itack where it tapers to a jjoint; sides with a 

 broad black stripe. Abdomen dark brown, mottled with brown and 

 l)la<'k and many silvery white maiks, these silvery nuirks faintly out- 

 line a median folium <tn the anterior part of the dors\uii. from its ends 

 a bright silvery line extend-* down on each side, behind on the middle 

 is an interrupted silvery line to tip. \'enter with a black mark, 

 narrowed behiiuL stermun black, with a median pale streak. Legs 

 pale, heavily marked with black, the joints with broad black bands 

 at tip, and the rest of femur, tibia arid metatai-sus UMtre or les.< dotted 

 with iilack: the hind femora are mosth- black beiieatli. mandibhs 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



pule, each with an iiiiicr ilarU line. Ahdoiiu'ii liiiili ainl imiiiuKiI. 

 Metatai-sus I about as lonij as til)ia plus ])at('lla I. l.eutilli 2.5 mm. 

 Chiral Faraiso. Costa Rica (Tristan and Biolley). 



Theridiam biolleyi n. .xp. 



Cephalothorax pale, with a broad median black stripe from eyes to 

 base, widened and then narrowed before middle, and with a lateral 

 extension each side, marjjin narrowly black; le^s i)ale, with rings and 

 marks, mostly at middle and tip of joints, except tai-si. Dorsum 

 dark gray antl white, with black j^atches mostly to ontline a j^ale 

 median stripe; sternum dark, pale on each anterior side; venter pale, 

 with some small white spots, and a pair of larger submedian black 

 spots. Legs long, very bristly, tibia I a trifle shorter than the meta- 

 tai-sus I; abdomen moderately high, rather long. General structure 

 as in T. tepidariorum: vulva shows two small openings as figured. 

 Length 4 mm. 



From Tablazo, Costa Rica (Biolley). 



Theridium rostratnm CambrirlRe. 



Biol. C. Am. Arachn. Aran., I, 204, 1896. 



Tejar de Cartdgo (B. and T.). 



Theridiam thorelli Cambridt^e. 



Biol. C. Am. Arachn. Aran., I, 132, 1,S94. 



Ahaya (Picado); and Volcano Poas. 



Theridiam picadoi n. ^p 



Cephalotiiorax brown, a bnjad dark-brown stripe on each lower 

 side. Abdomen generally pale, with a large black spot on each anterior 

 side, a smaller one behind it; on the dorsum behind the middle is a 

 large black spot, emarginate in front. Sternum yellow-brown, with 

 a median black streak, venter with a median black stripe, and the pos- 

 terior of the side-marks reaches down on the venter. Legs dull yel- 

 lowish, femora suffused black, with a paler spot above the til)ia and 

 metatarsus with a dark ring at tip; mandibles yellowish, each with two 

 dark lines in front. Femora of legs rather heavy; metatarsus I hardly 

 as long as tibia plus patella I; abdomen not especially high, rounded 

 above. Length 3 mm. 



From (Jrosi, Costa Rica, 18th .July (Picado). 



AneloBimas stadioBas Hentz. 



Journ. IV)st. .Soc. Nat. Hist., VI, 27}, 18.50. 



Tejar de Cartdgo (B. and T.); Aguas Calientes (Picado); Chiral 

 (B. and T.); Anonos; Tablazo; and Escazii. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



Dipoena micratula n sp. 



Cephalothorax pale yelUnvish. rather darker on the side.s, eyes sur- 

 rounded b}' black, palpi pale yellowish; legs yellowish on femora, 

 rest greenish; abdomen greenish gray, a black spot above the spin- 

 nerets and a black median stripe on venter ; sternum yellowish. Cepha- 

 lothorax high; eyes rather large, A. M. E. larger than othei^s; clypeus 

 concave; abdomen short and broad, and high; legs slender, but short, 

 finely hairy, palpi as figured. Length 1 mm. 



Onisi. Costa Rica, oth July (Picado). 



Dipoena proba Cambri<l»te. 



Biol. C. Am. Arachn. .A.ran., I, 294, 1,S99. 

 Fcrtuna (B. and T.); and Chiral Paraiso (B. and T.). 



Tea tana grossa Koch 



Die Arachn., IV. 112, 1.S38. 

 Cartairn (Picado); and Turrialba, August. 



Steatoda americana Cambridge. 



Biol. C. .\in. .\rachn. Aran., II, 377, 1902. 



Anono.?, .September. 

 Lithyphantes hermosa n. »p. 



Cc]»hal(ithora.\ and legs reddish, femora more purplish; abdomen 

 purplish, with two oblique white bands each side, and a pale area 

 behind near tip; venter purplish, with a white crescent-like mark in 

 front of the spinnerets; sternum reddish. Legs short; alnlomen 

 broadest and rather highest behind. Vulva showing two circular 

 orifices, fully their diameter apart. Length 3.2 mm. 



Punta Arenas, Costa Rica (Biolley). 

 Argyrodei amerioanai Tuczan.iw^ki. 



Hur. Sk-. Ent. Ho.ss., X, t)2, ls7.3. 



Tejar de Cartago (B. and T.); La NCrhL-iia, .March; .Xintaos, .'Sep- 

 tember; and <)r<Hi, 2il .July (Picado). 



Argyrodes maculoius CanihriilKf- 



Hinl. ('. .\m. .Vrachii. Aran., I, 2nS, J,s9.S. 



Santa Maria Dota. 

 Neriene maculoia >> ^!> 



Ceplialothora.x orange, eyes on l)lack spots, legs pale ycllnw, coxa* 

 and mandil)l&s orange, sternum alsf) orange; aljdoinen broWn, a faint 

 paler median area, which, behind the middle, is more definite and 

 margined by two black streaks to tip of al)d<»men, rest of the doi-sum 

 spotted with white, most of the spots on the upper sides; venter dark, 

 with a few white spots, and each side a little beyond ends of lung- 




206 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADKMY oK 



[April. 



slits is a lariifor white spot. \'ulva as tijriirctl for .V. connxn ami 

 ein<mjimit(i; a pair of cavities separated by a median septum, wiiieli 

 behind shows a short tongue. Abdomen of female rather broad, 

 pointed behind, nmch Hke a Europis. Length 3 nun. 



FnMii Cartago, Costa Riea, 1st July (Picado). A male that may 

 belong to the species is from Orosi, 2d July. 

 Neriene gamma Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Ararliii. Aran.. II, Jl'.). 1<.K)2. 



San Jo-^e. 



Neriene bisignata n sp. 



Cephalothorax and mandibles yellowish-l)rown; legs paler, posterior 

 sides of cephalothorax rather darker, eyes on black spots, stermnn, 

 venter and palpal organ black; dorsum of abdomen mostly white, a 

 median black stripe and some lateral and apical marks as figured. 

 Legs very slender, especially the tai-si; ])alpus with a slender, curved, 

 basal hook, an apical pointed process and a more slender style, pointing 

 toward the process. A female has the abdomen marked tlie same, 

 but the cephalothorax is dark l^rown. Length 3 nun. 



From Aguas Caliente, January (Tristan), and San Jose, in Bromelia 

 (Picado), Costa Rica. 



Neriene postica n. ^p. 



Cephalothorax pale yellowish in the middle, dark on sides; sternum 

 black; abdomen greenish gray, with some cretaceous white spots, and 

 dark marks as figured, the tip conical and jet black; venter black, a 

 white spot each side at base of the spinnerets; legs greenish yellow. 

 Cephalothorax narrow, head high; posterior middle eyes very lai-ge, 

 situate on tubercles, one and one-half diameter apart, about one 

 diameter from the laterals. Length 2.5 mm. 



From Orosi, .5th June, Costa Rica (Picado), 

 Frontinella communis Hentz. 



Journ. Bost. Soc. Xat. Hist., VI, 2.S, 1,S47. 



La Palma. 



MIMETIDiE. 

 Mimetus rapax Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Arachn. -Vran., I, 290, 1«99. 

 Turrialba; and Escazii. 



EPEIRID^. 

 Tetragnatha alba Cambridge. 



Biol. C. .\m. Arachn. Aran., II, 432, 1902. 

 San Jose (B. and T.); La Bolca (Picado); and Aguas Cahentes 

 (Picado). 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 2U7 



Tetragnatha antillana Simon. 



Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., 1897, S6,S. 

 San Jose; La Verbena; San Joatiuin: and Tejar do Caita<ro. 



Tetragnatha guatemalensis Cambridge. 



Biol. ('. .\iii. Arathn. .\ran., I, 8, 1889. 



San Jose; anfl Santa .Maria Dota. 



Tetragnaiha mexicana KeyserlinR. 



^'^■rll. zool. hot. Ge.-<. Wien, ISOo, 8.54. 



La Verbena. 



Tetragnatha confraterna " -i>. 



Ce{)halothora.\ pale, with indication of a broad stripe over head, 

 divided by a pale median Hne. Abdomen dark, rather swollen at base, 

 and at tip above is slightly projecting; legs of male very pale, of female 

 darker. Anterior side-eyes plainly smaller and well separated from 

 the posterior side-eyes; anterior median ej'cs larger than all others. 

 Mandibles pcjrrect, elongate; in female nearly as long as the cephalo- 

 thora.x. the outer corner below with a strong tooth : the male mandibles 

 are about as long as the cephalothora.x, shghtly divergent, toothed as 

 in the figure; the tibia and patella of palpus of ecjual length. Length 

 10-12 mm. 



Fnjm Machuca (Jiiolley), Escazii (Tristan), Tiribi (Tristan), and 

 Esparte (Biolley); all Costa Rica. 



Tetragnatha tenuiasima ('ainbri<iKc. 



Hiol. C. .\in. .Araclui. .\raii., I, 9. 1S,S9. 

 Tejar dr' C'artago; and Orosi (Picado). 



Tetragnatha tropica Caml>ri<lKc 



I'.iol. (". .\iii. Araclm. .\raii,, I, 11. 1S,S9. 



Guanaca.ste (Lankester). 



Tetragnatha tristani ■■■ ■<i> 



L'ephaiotiiora.x pale yellowish, abdomen ratiier silvery al)f)ve; 

 venter and sternum blackish; legs pale, greenish yellow, tips of tibia- 

 and metatarsi darker; S. 10. touching, the lower one nmch the smaller; 

 abdomen not very slender; mandibles not very long, nor nmcii porrect , 

 a tooth above before tip, not very long, and thice sube(|ual teeth on 

 inner margin. It runs to 7'. iliffitndi in the Jiioloi/in, having the 

 tibia of palpus extremely short, but dilTers in the mandibles. Length 

 4 mm. 



San Jose (Tristan). 




20S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



A^riognatha bella ('uiiibn<iKe 



Hinl. V. Am. Arachn. Aran., I, 1.'13, 1S96. 



Mac-huca (H.). 



Dolichognatha tuberculata KeysorliriK 

 Spiiiii. .\iMtT. Epfirid., 205, 1N'J3. 



Turrialba. 



Azilia guatemalensis Cambridge. 



]^iol. (". Am. .\rachn. Aran., I, 12, 18S9. 



Emboucliure du Rio Jesus Maria (Pac), January (B. and T.). 



Nephila clavipes Lintu'. 



.Sy.st. Xat. (XII), 1034, 17()7. 



Rio Reventazon, Plaines de Santa Clara. I)ecenil)er (B.); and Em- 

 bouchure du Rio Jesus Maria (Pac), January (B. and T.). 



Metargyra debilis Camhriflge. 



Biol. C. Am. Araclin. Aran., I, 5, 1SS9. 



La Palm a. 



Leucauge moerens Cambridee. 



Biol. (". Am. Arachn. Aran., I, 185, 1896. 



Turrialba. 



Lencauge fragilis Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Araclm. Aran., I, tt, 1889. 



Embouchure du Rio Jesus Maria (Pac), January (B. and T.). 



Leucaage hortorum Hentz. 



.lourn. Bost. Soo. Xat. Hi.st., Y, 477, 1847. 



Santa Maria Dota; Tejar de Carta^o (B. and T.); La Verbena; and 

 Cartafro. "^th July (Picado). 



Leucauge acuminata Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Arachn. Aran., I, 5, 1889. 



Turrialba (Picado). 



Pseudometa bella n. sp. 



Cephahjthorax yellowish, with a median black streak from eyes to 

 near base, its anterior part geminate by a pale lino. Legs pale yel- 

 lowish, tips of tibia:" darker; sternum black; abdomen whitish on sides, 

 in middle above is a broad blackish stripe, including a pair of pale spots; 

 venter black in the middle, white on sides, and a white dot each side 

 near the spinnerets. Length 8 mm. 



From Santa Maria, Costa Rica (Tristan). 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209 



Fseadometa alboguttata Cambritige. 



Biol. C. .\m. Arachn. Aran., I, 2, 18S9. 

 Tablazo. 



Fseadometa deco'.orata Cambridge. 



Biol. C. -\m. Arachn. Aran., I. 3, 1889. 



Oro-si, in Bromelia karatos, 2d July (Picado). 



Argiope argentata Fabricius. 



Ent. Syst., II, 414, 1793. 



Salinas de Albina (Pac), January (B. and T.); El Higuito, near San 

 Mateo (Pac), 250 m., January (B. and T.); Uricuajo (Pac), January 

 (B. and T.); Chiral Paraiso (B. and T.); San Jose (B.); and Punta 

 Arenas (B.). 



Argiope personata Cambridge. 



Bi..l. C. Am. .Vraclm. Aran., I, 110, 1S92. 



Chiral (B. and T.); and San Jesus. 



Cyclosa walckenaeri Cambridge. 



Biul. (.". Am. .\raclm. Aran., I, 47, 18S9. 



Chiral Paraiso (B. and T.); and El Higuito, near San Mateo (Pac), 

 250 m., January (B. and T.). 

 Cyclosa oonica Pallas. 



bpicil. Zool., I, 48, 177J. 



San Jos^. 



Cyolosa careli Hentz. 



Jouni. Bo.st. .See. Nat. Hi-st., \I. iM. 1850. 



Tejar de Cartago; San Joacjuin Ileredia Espinach; and Urosi, Otli 

 July (Picado). 



Cyclosa index Cambridge. 



Biol. (". Am. Arachn. Aran., I, 'A, 1889. 

 Aguas Caliciitos, July (Picado); La I-Ortuua; Cartdgo; Santa Maria 

 Dota; and Chiral Parai.'^o (B. and T.). 

 Mangora trilineata Cambridge 



Biol. (". .\iii. .\rarlin. .\ran., I, II. ISSO. 

 Orosi, 2d July (Picado). 



Mangora ipinals Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. .\rachn. Ar.in., II, 480, 1903. 



Orosi, 9th July (Picado), 



Mangora picta Cambridge. 



Ui(.i. C. Am. Arachn. Aran., I, 14, ls,s9. 



Oroei (Picado). ^ 



U 




210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Eriophora purparasoens Cambridge. 



Hiol. (.'. Am. Aradin. Aran., I, 33, 1SS9. 



San Jos6 (B.) ; and Surubres, near San Mateo (Pac), 250 ni., February 

 (B.). 



Eriophora edax Blackwall. 



Aim. Mag. Nat. Hist. (3), XI, 30, 1S63. 

 San Jos^, Punta Arenas (B.); Surubres (B.); and llatillo, Dili .June 

 (Picado). 



Eriophora minax Cambridge. 



Biol. (". Amer. Arachn. Aran., I, 112, 1S93. 

 San Jt).^e; Anonos, September; Atenas, August (Picado); Eml)ou- 

 chure du Rio Jesus Maria (Pac.), Januaiy (B. and T.); and Surubres, 

 near San Mateo (Pac), 250 m., February (B. and T.). 



Eriophora hivariolata Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Arachn. Aran., I, 27, 1889. 



San Jose ; and La Verbena. 



Eriophora nephiloides Cambridge. 



Biol. C. .\m. Arachn. Aran., I, 32, 1889. 



San Jose, 9th October (Picado); and Tiribi. 



Epeira pallidula Keyserling. 



Sitzungsb. Nat. Ges. Isis, Dresden, 1863, 124. 

 Turrialba. 



Epeira anguinifera Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Arachn. Aran., II, 514, 1904. 

 Turrialba. 



Epeira fasoovittata Keyserling. 



Sitzungsb. Nat. Ges. Isis, Dresden, 1863, 129. 



La Verbena; El Higuito, near San Mateo (Pac), January, 250 m. 

 (B. and T.); Surubres, February. 



Epeira scatigera Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Arachn. Aran., I, 243, 1898. 

 San Jose; Aguas Calientes (Picado). 



Epeira vulgaris Hentz. 



Joum. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., V, 469, 1847. 

 San Jos^, very common hous6 spider; Escazii; Uricuajo (Pac), 200 

 m., January (B. and T.). 



£p«ira solersioides Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Arachn. Aran., I, 25, 1889. 

 El Higuito, near San Mateo (Pac), 250 m., January (B. and T.). 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



Epeira minima Cambridge. 



Biol. C. .\in. Arachn. Aran., II, 471, 190-}. 



Escazii. 

 Epeira domiciliorum Hentz. 



Joum. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., V, 469, 1S47. 

 San Jose. 



Epeira detrimentoaa Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Ainer. Arachn. Aran., I, 26, 1SS9. 



San Jose (B.); El Higiiito, near San Mateo (Pac), 250 m., January 

 (B. and T.). 



Epeira globosa Keyserling. 



Verb. zool. bot. Ges. Wien, 1865, 820. 

 El Higuito, near San Mateo (Pac), 250 m., January (B. and T.). 



Epeira incerta Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Arachn. Aran., I, 23, 1889. 



San Jose, abundant house spider; Fortuna (T. and B.); Cartdgo.Sth 

 July (Picado); Tiribi; La Verbena; Surubres (B.); Aguas Calientes 

 (Picado); Anonos, September; Machuca (B.); San Joaquin Heredia 

 Espinach. 

 Epeira gravabilis Cambridge. 



i'.iol. C. Am. Arachn. Aran., I, 33, 1889. 



Volcan Poa.^, March. 

 Epeira microsoma ri. sp. 



.^hlle; cophaiothora.x 3'ellowish, eyes on black spots; legs yellowish, 

 femora and tibise darkened on apical half; abdomen yellowish brown, 

 with an indistinct, broad, dark J)rown median area, containing a pair 

 of small yellow spots; sternum pale. Abdomen twice as long a.s broad ; 

 legs not thickened, and without groups of spines. The male j)alpus 

 shows a curved black piece at apex, and on the inner side a plate with 

 two prominent black teeth. A female (proljably of this sjiecies) ha.s 

 the legs and body more unicolorous, sternum darker; alxlomen nearly 

 round. The smallest Epeira known to mo. Length -^ 2 mm., 

 9 2.2 mm. 



Prom La Palma. on bushes, Costa Rica (Tristan). 



Epeira anaitera Walcketiacr. 

 In.-^. Apt., II, .33, 1M2. 



La Verbena, in nest of a mud-^huibcr wasp. 

 Epeira smithi Cambridgp. 



Biol. C. .-\in. Arachn. .Aran., I, J.SO, 1,S9.H. 



Santa Maria Dota. ' 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Epeira bifida Cambridge. 



Biol. V. Am. -\rachn. Aran., II, 5U7, 1904. 

 La Verbena, in nest of mud-dauber wasp; Rio Jesus Maria (Pac), 

 January (B. and T.), in nest of a H3'menopteron. 



Metepeira labyrinthea Hentz. 



Jouni. Host. Soc. Nat. Hist., \', 471, 1847. 

 San Jose ; and Anonos, September. 



Metazygia gregalis Cambridge. 



Biol. C. -\in. Araclm. Aran., I, 22, 1SS9. 

 San 3os6, very abundant (B.); La Verbena; Tiribi. 



Larinia directa Hentz. 



Joum. Best. Soc. Nat. Hist., V, 478, 1847. 

 Machuca (B.) ; Surubres, near San Mateo (Pac), 250 m., January 

 (B. and T.); and El Higuito, near San Mateo (Pac), (B. and T.). 



Mahadiva 11-variolata Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Arachn. Aran., I, 53, 1889. 



Aguas Calientes, July (Picado). 



Acrosoma gracilis Walckenaer. 

 Tabl. ties Aran., 65, 1805. 

 Uricuajo (Pac), 200 m., January (B. and T.). 



Acrosoma obtusispina Keyserllng. 



Sitzungsb. Nat. Gcs. Isis, Dresden, 1863, 76. 

 Tiribi; Machuca (B.); Rio Jesus Maria (Pac), January (B. and T.); 

 El Higuito, near San Mateo (Pac), 250 m., January (B. and T.). 



Acrosoma insequalis Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Arachn Aran., II, 535, 1904. 



La Verbena, near San Jose. 



Acrosoma triserrata Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. .\rachn. Aran., II, 534, 1904. 



Tablazo. 



Acrosoma patruelis Koch. 



Die Arachn., VI, 130, 1839. 

 Turrialba; Orosi, 2d July (Picado). 



Acrosoma fidelis n. sp. 



Cephalothorax yellowish, legs more reddish; abdomen clear yellow 

 above, darker on sides and behind, tips of spines black. Abdomen 

 about twice as long as broad, not very much broader behind, where it 

 is furcate, each corner terminating in two small equal spines, one above 

 the other; on each side of dorsum are two spines, one small beyond 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 213 



middle, the other one larger before middle, none in front. Length 

 6 mm. 



From Tablazo, September, Costa Rica (Tri-stan). Differs from 

 nearly all the species which have two spines at each posterior corner 

 in lacking spines at anterior corners. A.bisicata Walck., which seems 

 allied, has ten spines. 



Acrosoma 1 2-spinosa Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Arachn. Aran., I, 63, 1S90. 

 Machuca (B.); Pitahaj-a, August (Picado); Embouchure du Rio 

 Jesus Maria (Pac), January (B. and T.) 



Acrosoma sexspinosa Hahn. 



Die Arachn., II, IS, 1S34. 



Surubres (B.); Embouchure du Rio Jesus Maria (Pac); January 

 (B. and T.). 



Acrosoma mammillata Butler. 



1V..C. Zool. .S.c. Lond., 1S73, 427. 

 Esparta (Pac), 50 m., Januaiy (B.). 



Gasteracantha kochi Butler. 



Trans. Ent. .-ioc. Lond., 187.3, 169 



Punta Arenas (B.) ; San Jos6, abundant on coffee plantations; Guade- 

 lupe, July (Picado); San Joaquin Heredia Espinach; Hatillo, Sth June 

 (Picado) ; Embouchure du Rio Jesus Maria (Pac), January (B. and T.). 



Tricantha tricomis Simon. 



Hist. Nat. .\raign. (I ed.)., 293. 1864. 



Tablazo. 



SPARASSID^. 

 Strophius hirsutas Cambridge. 



Biol. C. .Vm. Arachn. .\ran., I, ^7, 1>>91. 



Turrialba. 



Heteropoda venatoria Linn<^. 



Sy.st. Nat. (XII), 10.3.5, 1767. 

 Punta Arenas (B.); Surubres, near San Matoo (Pac), January 

 (B. and T.). 



Selenops mexicanui Keyseriing. 



.<j)inn. .\m(T. Latt-rg., 223, issO. 



San Jos6, in houses; Escazii; Pacaca; San Joacjiiin llcrcdia E><pin- 

 ach; Uricuajo (Pac), 200 m., January (B. and T.); El Higuito, near 

 San Mate«) (Pac), January (B. and T.); Canorejal do As.«cri (Pac), 

 800 m., April (B.). ' 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Selenops bifuroatus n. sp. 



Cephalothorax yellow; eyes on black spots; abdomen brown; legs 

 yellow, banded with black; sternum and venter pale. Length &, 

 10 mm. Known by the forked apophysis of the tibia of male paljnis. 

 A female is about of the same size; the vulva is very similar to that of 

 «S. mcxicanus, but narrower. 



Uricuajo (Pac). 200 m., January (B. and T.). 



Sparassus obsoarus Key^erling. 



Spinn. Amer. Laterp., I, 255, ISSO. 



Surubre-s, near San Mateo (Pac), 250 m., February (B. and T.). 

 Sparassus audaz n. sp. 



Male, pale yellowish; abdomen with some black marks above more 

 or less in lines; tips of tarsi and of palpi darker; venter sometimes 

 showing a median black area. Female, more yellowish brown; abdo- 

 men more spotted, a faint, basal, median Hne; venter with a broad, 

 black middle area; mandibles blackish, with two black lines; tai-si 

 and metatarsi infuscate. Anterior eye-row straight, M. E. large; 

 legs very long. Differs from S. simoni by lack of black at tips of 

 femora and tibise, and from all males by shape of the palpus. Length 

 9 15 mm., d^ 12 mm. 



Punta Arenas (B.); Santa ]\Iaria Dota (T.); San Josd (T.), Chiral 

 Paraiso (B. and T.); Orosi (Picado); El Higuito, near San Mateo 

 (Pac.) (B. and T.), and Surubres, near San Mateo (Pac), 250 m. (B. 

 and T.), February. 

 Sparassus crassus n. sp. 



Wholly i)ale yellowish; mandibles and venter pale; legs very long 

 and slender. Easily known by the extremely heav\' tibial apophysis, 

 as shown in the figure. Length c?, 10 mm. 



San Joaquin Heredia Espinach, February (T.) 

 Epicadus granulatns n. sp. 



Eyes arranged as in this genus; carapace with a raised point at the 

 dorsal groove. Abdomen high; dorsum hard, and with many small 

 granules and tubercles of irregular size, also small ones on the cephalo- 

 thorax. Legs I and II equal; no median apical spine to metatarsi; 

 tibiae I and II with 2-2 spines, metatarsi I and II with 2-2-2 spines; 

 legs roughened and granulate. Length 18 mm.; abdomen high 13 m. 



Surubres (BioUey), Costa Rica. 



THOMISID^. 



Xysticus advectus Cambridge. 



Biol. C. .\m. Arachn. Aran., I, 71, 1890. 



Cartago (Picado). 



I 



( 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215 



Synema affinitatum Cambridge. 



Biol. C. -\m. Arachn. Aran., I, S2, 1S91. 



Tablazo; La Palma. 



Synema maoulesum Cambridge. 



Biol. C. .\m. Arachn. Aran., I, 81, 1S91. 



La Palma, on the shrubs. 



Bassania aemula Cambridge. 



Biol. ('. Am. Arachn. Aran., I, 249, 1898. 



Turrialba, 



Bancinia magfna Keyserling. 



Spinn. Amer. Laterg., 12.5, 1880 

 L'ricuajo (Pac), 200 m., January (B. and T.). 



Misamenaasperata Hentz. 



Joum. Host. See. Xat. Hist., V, 447, 1847. 

 Cartdgo (Picado). 



ApoUophanes panctipes Cambridge. 



Bioi; C. Am. Arachn. .\ran., I, 79, 1891. 



Los Anonos, September; Tiribi; San Jos^ (Picado). 



PISAURID^. 



Enna velox Cambridge. 



Biol. C. .\m. Arachn. Aran., I, 232, 1897. 



Pacaca. 



Thaamasia ni^inas Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. .\rachn. Aran., II, 310, 1901. 



Herbesan, San Jos^, February (B.); La Verbena; San Josd. 



Lyeoot«nat bogotensis Koyserling. 



Verh. zool. bot. Gea. Wien, 1877, 684. 

 Esparta (B.); Surubres, near San Mateo (Pac), 250 ni., I'"ol)ruary 

 B.), under stones on bank of river. 



Capiennius sallei Keyiterling. 



Verh. zof)l. bot. Gcs. Wicn, 1S77, ftS'). 

 Parara; Surubres, near San Mateo (i'ac); 250 m., I'ebruary (B.). 



Capianniai miniraas n. sp. 



Cephalothora.v brown on central region, paler on the sides, abdomen 

 with largo broad folium above, sometimes (in two specimens) truncated 

 behind by a broad |)ale spot. Venter pale, no median .'itripe; legs 

 mottled with blackish above, no speckles beneath. Abdomen is much 




216 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



broader than in C. foliatus ; vulva as figured. It is the smallest species, 

 only 12 to 14 nun. long in female. 

 Sta. Maria Dota, Costa Rica. 



Cupiennias foliatns Cambri<lKe. 



Biol. C. Am. Araclin. Aran., II, 307, 1901. 



Turrialba; La Palma. 



Capiennins getazi Simon. 



Bull. Soc. Zool. France, 1891, 110 



San Jos6; Turrialba, May. 



Cupiennius grisens Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Arachn. Aran., II, 307, 1901. 



Tablazo; Sta. Maria Dota. 



Trechalea convexa Cambridge. 



Biol. Cent. Am. Arachn. Aran., I, 233, 1898. 

 Sta. Maria Dota; Turricares, February; Tiribi; Pacaca; Uricuajo 

 (Pac.) ; Rio Jesus Maria (Pac.) (B. and T.) ; El Higuito, near San Mateo 

 (Pac), January (B. and T.); Surubres, near San Mateo (Pao.), Feb- 

 ruary (B.), under stones. 



CTENID..E. 



Ctenu8 sinuatipes Cambridge. 



.\im. Mag. Nat. Hist. (6), XIX, 84, 1897. 

 Aguas Calientes (Picado); La Palma; San Jose, in houses; San 

 Joaquin Heredia Espinach; La Carpintera, 1,500 m., October (Alfaro); 

 Estacion de Turrialba (Maxon); El Higuito, near San Mateo (Pac), 

 January, 250 m. (B. and T.). 



CtenuB spiralis Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Arachn. Aran., II, 112, 1900. 

 Surubres, near San Mateo (Pac), 250 m., February (B. and T.). 



Ctenus incolans Cambridge. 



Biol. C. .\m. Arachn. Aran., II, 111, 1900. 



Huacas (Pac). 



Ctenus Bupinus Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Arachn. Aran., II, 110, 1900. 



La Verbena. 



Ct«nu8 convexus Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Arachn. Aran., II, 114, 1900. 



Pacaca; Sta. Maria Dota. 




r.MIO.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 217 



Ctenus peregrinut Cambri<lKe. 



1^1. il. C. Am. Arachn. Aran., II, 110, I'HK). 



San Ja<5^, on the walls of houses ; Turrialba ; Pacaca ; Tejar de Cartdgo. 



Acanthoctenus spinipei CamhridKe. 



\(rli. /(.(.!. Ix.t. Cli'.s. Wien, 1S7G, 095. 



Tiribi; San J(^^ (H. and T.); Salvinas de Attina (Pac), January 

 (B. and T.). 



LYOOSID^. 

 Soiippus agalenoides n. sp. 



Cephalothorax brown; a very narrow, median pale line, sides nar 

 rowly pale, mandibles jet black on frt)nt, a narrow line of yellow hair 

 each side, palpi l)lack at tip; legs pale yellowish, tarsi and metatai-si 

 blackish, sternum antl coxie pale yellowish. Abdomen pale grayish 

 yellow above, with a brown median strijie from base to tip, not out- 

 lined by pale, but with a few pale spots on anterior sides, and behind 

 this it is dentated; venter wholly pale. Length 22 mm. 



From Punta Arenas, Co.'^ta Rica (Biolley). Differs from N. vuii- 

 cnnns in larger size, different abtiominal markings, rather l)roader 

 cephalothorax, and in the shape of the vulva. 



Sosippui mezicanus Simon. 



Aim. Siic. Ent. Fraiu-c, ISSS, 200. 



El Higuito, near San Mateo (Pac), Jamiary (B. and '1".). 



Arotoia triflda Cnmbri<l({p. 



Hid. C. Am. Arachn. .\raii., II, .T^), HM)2. 



Embouchure du Rio Jesus Maria, Januaiy (B. aiul T.). 



Arotoia minata Cambri<iKe. 



Hi..!. ('. Am. Araclm. Anm., II, .3.31, 1002. 



Tiribi; San 3(ys6; Embouchure du Rio Jesus .Maria (Pac). January 

 (B. and T.). 



Lycoia indgnii rambri<lK^. 



Uiui. C. ,Vm. Arnchn. Aran., I, 272. 1S9S. 

 Punta Arenas (B.); San Joa<|uin Heredia ICspinach, in the pastures. 



Lycoia longitariU ('anibri>lK<-. 



Hiol. C. Am. Arachn. .\ran., II, 327, l'.to2. 



(luanacaste (Lankester): Ateiuis (Picado); San Jo-r: San .b)a<|uin 

 Heredia E><pinach. 

 Lycoia brevitariii CnmbriJgp. 



Biol. ('. Am. .\rachn. Aran., H. .'5J7. 1'.MI2. 



San .Ios<''; Sta. Maria Dota. ^ 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Lyoosa tig^iventris n. sp. 



Ceplialothorax brown, head black; a pale narrow median stripe 

 rom liead to l)as!e, side margins narrowly pale, a short curved pale 

 stripe each side under dorsal eye reaching forward; mandibles with 

 tawny yellow hairs, except black along inner side, showing a broad 

 median i)lack stripe, each side tawn_v; legs pale brown to middle, 

 rest darker, femora with a black mark below at tip, a narrow one at 

 base of tibiae and middle of tibire and beyond nearly black; tibire III 

 and IV pale beneath, with a black mark at base and at tip; coxie 

 and sternum pale, the former infuscated. Abdomen pale above, 

 with a larger, black, basal spear-mark, followed by many small dots 

 and many lateral dots and marks; base of venter to ftuTow ]jale, 

 beyond covered with a large, deep-black mark, having each side of 

 the middle a clear pale elongate spot. Length 27 mm. 



From San Joaquin (Tristan). The common name is " Pica caballo. " 



Lycosa sabfusoa Cambridge. 



Biol. C. .\m. Araclm. Aran., II, 325, 1902. 



Huacas (Pac). 

 Lycosa morosina n. sp. 



Cephalothorax with a broad bright yellowish-brown stripe on 

 middle, black in the eye-region, brown on sides, with indications of 

 some pale spots near margin; palpi yellowish, basal joint brown; 

 legs dark brown on femora, yellowish beyond; mandibles yellowish 

 brown, with some yellowish hairs. Sternum black, coxae blackish; 

 abdomen dark brown, a black mark over base followed by a broad pale 

 yellowish mark, not extending far each side; venter black on sides, 

 pale in the middle with a median black stripe from vulva to spirmerets. 

 Legs long and slender, especially leg IV, anterior eye-row procurved, 

 much narrower than second row, three pairs of spines under tibiae 

 and metatarsi I and II. Vulva with two cavities in front, and a basal 

 plate behind. Near to L. dilatata of the "Biologia," but the vulva is 

 very different. Length 8 mm. 



One from Turrialba, August, Costa Rica (Picado). 



Lycosa brnnnea Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Arachn. Aran., II, .32.5, 1902. 



Embouchure du Rio Jesus Maria (Pac), January (B. and T.). 



Lycosa tristani n. sp. 



Cephalothorax brown, a broad pale median stripe, slightly broad- 

 ened a little behind the eye-region, then tapering to tip; abdomen 

 brown on middle, with a broad median spot of yellowish hair, with a 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



median dark spear-mark in front and some spots behind, venter with 

 rather golden yellow hair, and a basal dusky streak, sides darker; 

 stcrnimi pale, but with a broad dark streak through the middle; 

 legs yellowish, marked with brown, golden hair around eyes, and some 

 in front of the brown mandibles. Anterior eye-row procurved, and 

 shorter than the second row; legs slender, especiall}'' the hind tarsi. 

 Male has the sternum and coxae black; legs mostly black, tarsi, meta- 

 tarsi, and apical half of the tibia pale; venter as in the female; the 

 tibia of the palpus is enlarged. Length 8 mm. 



From Turrialba, Costa Rica (Tristan). 

 Lycosa biolleyi n. sp. 



Cepiialothorax brown, with three pale stripes, the lateral rather 

 narrow, the median broad and not coastricted, narrowed between 

 dorsal eyes, and here it contains a median black line; mandible 

 red-brown; legs yellowish, faintly maculate with brown and blacki.^h, 

 quite distinct on the hind femora. Abdomen black above, paler 

 beneath. Cephalothorax rather long; anterior eye-row a little nar- 

 rower than the second row; legs long and slender, metatarsi IV about 

 as long as the cephalothorax; tibiie I and II with 2-2-2 spines. \'ulva 

 very characteristic. Length 10 mm. 



From Tablazo, Costa Rica (Biolley). 



Pardoia falcifera Cambridge. 



Biol. C. .\in. .\rachn. Aran., II, 318, 1901. 



Tejar de Cartago; San Isidro; Sta. Maria Dota; Turrialba, August 

 (Picado); La Palma, very common in the grass. 



Pardosa uncatula f'ambri'lge. 



liiol. (". Am. .\raclm. .Vran., II, 310, 1902 



Tablazo. 



Pardosa prolifica Cambridge. 



Biol. C. .Vm. .\rachn. Aran., II, 317, 1902. 



La Bolca, January (Picado); Cartago (B.); San Jos6; Tablazo. 



OXYOPIDiE. 



Peacetia viridani Ilentz. 



Joiini. li<.3t. Soc. Nat. Hist., \', l'.r>. l.Sl.>. 



San Jw6; Punta Arenas (B.); Jesus Maria (B.); Fricuajo (Pac), 

 200 m., January (B. and T.); El Higuito. near San Mateo (Pac), 250 

 m., January (B. and T.). 



Ozjopeidon patam Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Ararhn. Aran., I, 1 10, Is'.H. 



Anonos, September. * 




220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



ATTID^. 

 Phidippns ohrysis Wnlckeimer. 

 In<!. Apt.. I, 454. 1S37. 

 Pitahava, August (Pioado). 



Phidippas marmoratus Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Araclm. Aran., II, 276, 1901. 



La Verbena; Tiribi; San Jos6, nests on leaves of trees; Enil^ouchure 

 du Rio Jesus Maria (Pac), Januarj' (B. and T.). 



Phidippui fanebris Banks. 



Proc. Calif. Acad. Sci. (3), I, 2S0, 1S9S. 

 San Jose (B.); Tablazo, September; Tiribi. 



Phidippus disjunotns Banks. 



Proc. Calif. Acad. Sci. (3), I, 2S1, 1898. 



La Bolca, June (Picado). 



Phidippas incontesta n. sp. 



Cepiialothorax and mandibles dark red-brown; abdomen brown, 

 with metallic scales, several black spots each side. Leg I blackish, 

 except on metatarsus and tarsus which are pale yellow; other legs 

 yellowish-brown, darker at tips of joints; leg I w-ith fringe of black hair 

 beneath. Sternum red-brown; venter paler reddish-brown; man- 

 dibles brown; rather porrect, with a large straight tooth near inner 

 base. Second row of eyes half-way to doreal eyes. Length 6 mm. 



From Tablazo, Costa Rica (Tristan). 



Phidippus luteus Peckham. 



OccsLs. Papers Xat. Hist. Soc. Wise, III, 40, 1896. 

 San Jose, a young specimen, 



Dendryphantes quadrinotatus Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Arachn. Aran., II, 271, 1901. 

 Aguas Cahentes (Picado). 



Dendryphantes digitatns Cambridge. 



Biol. C. ,\m. Arachn. Aran., II, 269, 1901. 

 Chiral Paraiso. 



Dendryphantes globosas Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Arachn. Aran., II, 26.5, 1901. 

 La Palma. 



Dendryphantes bispinosus Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Arachn. Aran., II, 266, 1901. 

 Sta. Maria Dota; Chiral Paraiso. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221 



Dendryphantes lanceolatus Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Araclin. Aran., II, 266, 1901. 



La Verbena, March. 



Dendryphantes ootonotatas Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Arachn. Aran., II, 263, 1901. 



Fortuna (B. and T.); Aguas Calientes (Picado); Hatillo (Picado); 

 Turrialba. 



Dendryphantes oomptus n. sp. 



Cephalothorax red-brown, a broad white stripe on each side, margin 

 red-brown; abdomen red-brown in middle, the sides of which are 

 indented three times behind, upper sides white, lower sides with brown 

 stripe; venter red-brown in middle, sides pale; sternum red-brown. 

 Leg I brown, pale on tarsus and base of metatareus; other legs yellow, 

 femora with a brown streak each side, and brown bands at tips of 

 patella, tibia, and metatarsus. Length 3 mm. 



From Aguas Calientes, Costa Rica (Picado). 



Dendryphantes pallens Cambridge. 



Biol. C. .\iu. .Vraclin. Aran., II, 272, 1901. 



La Palma. 



Sidasa spiralis Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Arachn. Aran., II. 217, 1001. 

 La Verbena, March; Tablazo. 



Sidusa tarsalis n sp. 



Cephalothorax dark red-brown, abdomen blackish, witli an dhlique 

 white streak on each anterior side, and behind is a broad oblicjue wjiite 

 mark each side, not meeting in middle; venter blackisji; stennim 

 dark red-brown; legs with the femora and tarsi dark red-brown, the 

 other joints pale reddish, especially pale on legs I and II; in Icj^s III 

 and IV' the tibia and ba.se and tip of metatarsi dark ; palpi pale reddish- 

 yellow except the dark brown basal joint; mandil)les red-brown. 

 Length 8.5 mm. 



Salinas de All)ina (I'ac), January (UioUcy and Tristan). 



Siduia salpharea r'ambridice. 



Biol. C. Am. Arachn. Aran., II, 2ls, 1<M(1. 



Orosi. 2d July (Picado). 



Sidasa oonspeota Pcckham. 



()cra.s. Papers Nat. Hi.st. Soc. Wi.sc, HI, 12. inyo. __ 



Tiribi. 




222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Sidasa femoralis » ^^p. 



Heail black ; behind arc two lar^e oval yellow sjiots, leaving a median 

 black stripe. Abdomen with a broad median black stripe from base 

 to tip. tapering behind and there indented from the sides; the sides 

 pale grayish, with some black streaks; venter pale, mottled with black; 

 sternum red-brown. Leg I mostly red-brown, tai'sus yellowish; 

 leg II more mottled, the patella yellowish above; legs III and IV 

 with mostly dark femora, rest pale, tips of tibia and metatarsus black. 

 Length 3.5 mm. 



From Poas Volcano, April (Tristan). 



Sidasa nigropiota Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Arachn. Aran., II, 212, 1901. 



Aguas Cahentes (Picado). 



Sidusa parvnla Peckham. 



Occas. Papers Nat. Hist. Soc. Wise, III, 44, 1S9G. 



Aguas Calientes (Picado). 



Sidasa albicincta Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Arachn. Aran., II, 215, 1901. 



Turrialba. 



Sidasa opima Peckham. 



Proc. Xat. Hist. Soc. Wise, 1895, 71. 



Orosi (Picado); Chiral Paraiso. 



Sidusa fulvoguttata Cambridge. 



Biol. C. .\m. Arachn. Aran., II, 214, 1901. 



San Jose; Tiribi. 



Sidnsa marmorea Cambridge. 



Biol. C. .\m. Arachn. Aran., II, 211, 1901. 



La Verbena. 



Cyrene interrupta Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Arachn. Aran., II, 239, 1901. 



Tejar de Cartdgo; Anonos; Orosi (Picado). 



Cyrene dolosa n pp 



Cephalothorax red-brown, eyes on large black spots, a pale median 

 stripe, and the side margins pale; the red-brow^n stripes are nearly 

 black under the base of the abdomen. Abdomen pale, four black 

 spots each side, the middle area very pale, some small blackish streaks 

 on the sides; venter pale, spinnerets black, and the black continued as 

 a stripe on venter to near the middle where it ends in a sharp point; 

 sternum pale; legs pale, more reddish on tibia and patella*; mandibles 




1909.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 223 



reddish. The spines on legs are as in C. flava, but none above on tibia 

 III and IV; the vulva is nearer to C. pratensis. Length S mm. 



From Punta Arenas (Biolley) and Vriciiajo (Pac). January-, 200 m. 

 (Biolley and Tristan). 

 Cyrene delecta Peckham. 



Occas. Pap. Nat. Hist. Soc, Wise, III, 68, 1896. 



San Mateo (Pac). 

 Cyrene magnifica n. sp. 



Cephalothorax black, a broad marginal white stripe each side, and 

 a white spot in the middle; abdomen black, a curved basal white band, 

 and behind on each side are two large white spots; and in the middle 

 line are three white spots, the last over the spinnerets is the largest. 

 Venter with four narrow pale lines in the middle area, and a white 

 spot each side near base; sternum and legs black, with black hair, 

 the latter with some white hairs beneath, which form white bands 

 on the middle of the tibise and metatai-si III and IX: palpi pale 

 yellowish, with white hair. Length 15 mm. 



From San Mateo, Costa Rica (Biolley). It is the largest species of 

 the genus known to me. 

 Cyrene fuBoa Cambridge. 



Biol. C. -Vm. Arachn. Aran.. II, 2;iS, 1901. 



San Jose. 

 Cyrene formost o. sp. 



Black, clothed with deep black hairs, a white median stripe extend- 

 ing out each side in front to the dorsal eyes, a narrow white band above 

 anterior eye-row, and the clypeus broadly white, a marginal white 

 stripe. Abdomen black, with black hair, a median white stripe, crossed 

 in front by a white band, and a broad ba.'^al white band, which 

 extends back each side, the posterior sides white: the sides white with 

 many elongate black dashes; venter black in the middle; sternum 

 pale brown; legs red-brown or black, with black hair, the tarsi and 

 metatarsi are pale, hind femora below, and the basal half of tibia pale. 

 \o fringes on legs; patella and tibia of male palj)us with white hair 

 above. Length 9-10 mm. 



Frf»m Turrialba, CV^ta Rica (Tri.-^tan). 

 Cyrene pratensia Peckham. 



I'roc. Nat. Hist. .Soc. Wise, 1S8.5, 70. 



San .Tf)se. 



Cyrene biouipidata Camhri.lite. 



Biol. C. Am. Arachn. Ar:.n., II, j.ls. HhiI. -^ 



I'araca. 




-24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Thiodina retarias Hontz. 



Journ. Bost. Soc. \at. Hist., VI, 12SS, ISoU. 



Huacas. 



Marpissa melanognatha Lucas. 



Hist. Xat. Canaries, Arachn., 20, 1S39. 



Punta Arenas (B.); San Jos6 (B.), (Picado). 

 Marpissa ma^na Peckham. 



Occiis. Pap. Xat. Hist. Soc. Wise, II, S7. 1S91. 



Guanacaste ( La nicest er). 



Marpissa minor Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. -\rachn. Aran., II, 250, 1001. 



Turrialba. 

 Fhanias marginalis n. sp. 



Cephalothorax dark red-l)rown, a transverse patch of white hair 

 just behind dorsal eyes, the margins of cephalothorax broadly snow- 

 white. Dorsum of abdomen pale brown, a darker brown basal spear- 

 mark, and some dark chevrons behind, also an indistinct lateral dark 

 streak; sternum red-brown, venter pale brown. Legs pale brown, 

 femur I dark, other joints darkened at tips; patellae of palpus snow- 

 white. Length 6 mm. 



San Jose, Costa Rica (Tristan). 

 Flezippas paykuUi Aud. et Sav. 



Descript. Egypte (ed. 2), XXII, 172, 1827. 



Huacas; La Verbena, March; Surubres (Pac.) (B.); Congrejal de 

 Asseri (Pac), 800 m., April (B.). 



Metacyrba tseniola Hentz. 



Journ. Bost. Soc. Xat. Hist., V, 353, 1895. 



Turrialba. 



MesBua desidiosa Peckham. 



Occas. Pap. Xat. Hist. Soc. Wise, III, 93, 189G. 



San Joaquin Heredia Espinach. 

 Nagaina inounda Peckham. 



Occas. Pap. Xat. Hist. Soc. Wise, III, o4, 1896. 



Orosi, 20th July (Picado). 



Ashtabula nigricans Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Arachn. Aran., II, 257, 1901. 

 Anonos, September; La Bolca (Picado). 



ZygoballUB tibialis Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Arachn. Aran., II, 292, 1901. 

 San Jose. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225 



Martella lineatipes Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Arachn. Aran., II, 175, 1900. 



La Verbena. 



Sarinda pretiosa n. sp. 



Cephalothorax and abdomen black, mandibles and palpi red-brown; 

 cephalothorax with two pale yellowish transverse marks above, just 

 behind cephalic part ; abdomen with two transverse white marks rather 

 before middle, and on lower sides is another; venter with a pale band 

 behind the vulva; coxae and legs pale, I and II striped with black, 

 tarsi I black, femora III and IV black, patelltc wholly pale, tibite 

 and metatarsi striped with dark. Tibia I and II with 2-2-2 spines, 

 metatarsi with 2-2 spines. Length 3.5 mm. 



From Turrialba, Costa Rica (Tristan). 

 Lyssomanei spinifer Cambridge. 



Biol. C. .\ni. .\raclm. Aran., II. 1S4, 1900. 



Surubres (Pac.) (B.); Aguas Calientes (Picado); San Jos^, July 

 (Picado). 

 Lyssomanes convexa n. sp. 



Pale yellowish green throughout, eyes on black spots, no other 

 marks. Tibia I with but outer lateral spine, which is toward the tip. 

 Vulva near L. clegans, but the apertures much closer together, and the 

 ba.sal part longer. Length 8 mm. 



One female from Xavarro, Costa Rica (Maxon). 



PHALANG-IDA. 

 Cynorta albipanotata Cambridge. 



Biol. C. \n\. Arachn. Aran., II. .>">0. 1!MM. 



San Jcxse. under stones (B.); Tejar dc Cartago. under trunks of 

 trees (B. and T.); La Verbena; La Bolca, July (Picado); Tablazo; 

 San Isidro; La Palma. 



Cynorta biguttata Cambridge. 



I<i..l. V. Am. Arachn. Aran.. II .")7. VM)\. 



Sta. .Maria Dota; Tiribi ; Cartago (B. and T.): F(»rtnna Cervantes; 

 San .Ios(', under stones in dark places, 

 Cynorta mar^nalis n. .op. 



Dorsiun a beautiful, uniform, deep, dark brown, shining, narrowly 

 margined each side by a reticulate greenish-yellow stripe; no \'-mark, 

 hind nuirgin of the shield and of the three other segments narrowly 

 greenish yellow. Legs yellowish, more or less reticulate with brown, 

 the tip of femvu', and tibia, and whole of patella dark brown; man- 

 dibles pale, venter black. Dorsum smooth, a pair of minute tulu-rtUis 

 15 




22(3 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



in front, and beliiiul a pair of rather large tubercles, but with roiUKlcil 

 tips. Legs long and slender. Runs to C. conigcra in the IHoUhjvi, 

 but tarsus IV has 11 joints; differs however much in other ways. 

 Length, body 6 mm., femtw II 12 mm. 

 Several specimens from Turrialba, Costa Rica (Tristan). 



Cynorta longipes Cambri<lge. 



Biol. ('. Am. Araclm. .\r:in.. II, .557, 1904. 



San Isidro; Talilazo. September. 

 Cynorta lata n. sp. 



\'erv dark red-brown, a yellow Y-mark enlarged at each anterior 

 end, a transverse line behind, mandibles and legs not very pale, tarsi 

 paler. Dorsum minutely granulate, posterior tubercles low and blunt, 

 posterior segments each with row of granules; body very broad, over 

 coxae IV nearly as broad as long; basal joint of mandibles spinulose 

 above; legs very rough, but the granules are blunt and none enlarged; 

 trochanter III has a little process behind, a larger one on trochanter 

 IV. a short, stout spine above at tip of coxa IV; tarsus I with 6 joints, 

 II with 11. Ill with 7, and IV with 8 joints. Venter dark brown; 

 coxse granulate, coxse IV only toward tip. Length S mm., femur IV 

 6 mm., femur II 7 mm. 



Santa Domingo, San Mateo, Costa Rica, August (Tristan). 



Cynorta conigera Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Araohn. Aran., II, .5.59, 1904. 



Kl Higuito, near San Mateo (Pac), January (B. and T.). 

 Cynorta pictipes n. sp. 



Black, a narrow yellow \'-mark, some lines at sides, and following 

 this a faint scallop behind and passing behind the posterior tubercles; 

 many small yellow dots scattered over the abdomen; mandibles, palpi, 

 and venter black; legs yellow, femora on apical half black, patellae 

 wholly black, tibiie on apical half and most of the metatai-si black, 

 several black spots on trochanters. Dorsum smooth; posterior tuber- 

 cles thick and heavy, acute, but not very high ; coxa IV at tip with one 

 small tubercle; legs very short; tarsus I with 6 joints, II with 9, III 

 with 7, IV with 8 joints. Length, body 5.5 mm.; femur II 5 mm. 



From Turrialba, Costa Rica (Tristan). 



Cynorta longispina Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Arachn. Aran., II, .5.5,8, 1904. 



Uricuajo (Pac), 200 m., January (B. and T.). 

 Cynorta posticata n. sp. 



Dorsum rich deep brown, a narrow white line each side, not reach- 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 227 



ing either end of body, each end of line turned up or down a short 

 distance; sometimes the line is broken over coxse III. Three posterior 

 segments mostly white, the last with a large white triangle each side 

 at base; legs and mandibles pale yellowish, heavily reticulate with 

 black, \enter red-brown, granulate. Doi*sum smooth, posterior 

 tubercles rather large; legs long, tarsus I with 6 joints, II with 17, III 

 with 9, and IV with 10 joints. Hind legs of male with femur and 

 tibia slightly curved, the inetatai"si sinuate, and at base above with 

 a series of over 20 teeth. Length 6 to 7 mm. 



From Turrialba. Costa Rica (Tristan); nine specimens, all agreeing 

 in the peculiar coloration. 



Cynorta bipunctata Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Anu-Iin. Aran.. II, 5.56, 1904. 



Fortuna; La Palma; Turrialba. 



Cynorta pedalis n sp. 



\'ery dark red-brown; a yellow Y-niark as usual, the anterior 

 ends of which terminate in large spots, each with several dark dots, 

 a yellow ol)long behind at region of tubercles, and a line from it to each 

 side yellow. Legs yellowish; the trochantei-s very brigiit yellow, 

 the femora more or less distinctly banded with dark at base, before 

 middle, beyond middle, and at tip; the tibiie with indistinct bands at 

 ba-jp, middle, and tip; the metatarsi with four bands as on the femora; 

 hind tarsi pale yellow, others darker. Tho doi-sum is mostly smooth, 

 the tubercles practically absent ; legs spimilose ; femur IV more strongly 

 so, but hardly with teeth, no large tooth at tip of coxa I\'. Tai-sus I 

 with 6 joints (three enlarged). 11 with 11. Ill with 7, and I\' with S 

 joints. Hind femur about as long as Ixxjy. Length (5 nun. 



From San Isidro. Costa Rica (Tristan). 



Cynorta tristani n sp. 



Dark red-brown, marked with yellowish; a Y-mark as usual, the 

 sides and posterior margin narrowly yellow, many small dots al)ove, 

 some forming two transverse rows. I^gs pale, densely marked with 

 black. Dorsum snu)oth, two large posterior tubercles, and on pos- 

 terior segments a few small granules; legs slightly roiighened. \'enter 

 mostly smooth, co.xip I, II, and III, sligjitly granulate, and a row of 

 teeth on their pf)steri(»r borders. Legs not ver\' long; tarsus I with (J 

 joints, II with 14, III with S. and IV with 9 joints. Length 5 nun. 



El Higviito, Jesus San Mateo (I'ac.) (Biolley and Tristan). The 

 posterior tubercles arc mtich shorter tlian in C lowjii^piud, to whidi it 

 is otherwise much related. 




22S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Vonones lateralis n sp. 



Dorsum witli a large brown spot in middle of sides, in front and behind 

 reticulate greenish-yellow, many yellow spots here and there, and 

 also scattered yellow granules, the posterior tubercles large, hardly 

 acute and bearing small spinules, basal joint of mandil)les spinulose 

 above. Legs yellow, more or less marked with fine l)lack lines. Pos- 

 terior segments brown, with yellow dots, foiu* larger dots on the last 

 segment, ^'enter rufous, granulate, a prominent quadrangular 

 yellow spot on each hind coxa near the tip. The coxae above end in 

 three small teeth, the trochantei-s on inner side with two teeth at tip; 

 hind femora with, a series of teeth above and below near tip as in 

 Erginus, no teeth longer than the width of the joint. Length 6.5 mm. 



Several from Turrialba, Costa Rica (Tristan). 



CYNORTINA n, gen. 



Gonyleptidte, subfam. Stygnina}. Spiracles distinct, hind coxjb 

 free at apex, much broader than a ventral segment; eye-tubercle broad, 

 with two short blunt projections between eyes ; legs short, tarsi I with 

 3 joints, II with 7, III with 6. IV with 6 joints; palpi not very long, 

 joints cylindrical, and each with a few spiniform bristles. 



Cynortina tarsalis n. sp. 



^'ery dark brown, the tips of the coxae, trochanters, femora, and 

 tibiae pale, also tips of femora and tibiae of palpus pale. Doi'sum 

 smooth, a few low granules in transverse rows on the dorsal shield, 

 lateral margin of shield with a submarginal row of stronger granules, 

 a few small ones on hind margin and on each of the posterior segments ; 

 legs without granules, except under all femora, and patella and tibia 

 IV; all legs with fine short hairs, coxa IV below has a small tooth lying 

 close to venter, hardly discernible. The palpus has four spines on 

 outside of femur (two near base), and one on inner side near tip; 

 patella one on inner side; tibia two on outer side, three on inner side; 

 tarsus with two on each side; claw fully one-half as long as tarsus. 

 Length 4 mm. 



La Palma, Costa Rica (Tristan). 



MeterginuB signatus n. sp. 



Dorsum dark red-brown, a large yellowish patch each side over 

 coxae II and III, and another behind, reticulate, over coxae IV, the two 

 each side are indistinctly connected, no yellow \'-mark, nor borders 

 to segments, ^'enter red-brown; legs yellow, reticulate with blackish. 

 Dorsum smooth; posterior tubercles small, rounded, wide apart; 

 basal joint of mandibles granulate above, second joint in the male is 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 229 



greatly enlarged, swollen above and in front, in the female normal, 

 femur of palpus with a row of ten teeth below, much smaller in the 

 female ; legs long, rough ; hind pair longer, no teeth on femur IV of male, 

 coxae IV ends in one tooth above, hind femur nearly two-thirds as long 

 as body. Tai"sus I with 7 joints, fii-st four enlarged, II with 15. Ill 

 with 10. IV with 11 joints. Length, d" 8 mm., 9 6.5 mm., femur 

 IV, c , 15 mm. 

 From Turrialba. Costa Rica (Tristan). 



Metarginas inermis n sp. 



Red-brown, mandibles paler, trochanters rather bright yellowish, 

 rest of legs brownish, two large connected spots each side of the cepha- 

 hithorax, the Y-mark indistinct, and a faint transveree Hne behind. 

 Dorsum smooth, no tubercles; ej'e-tubercle very broad, smooth; 

 legs spinulose. hind femora with several rows of blunt teeth, largest 

 below, with many scattered rather larger granules; a series of granules 

 under femur of palpus; second joint of mandibles large, but not much 

 swollen above; legs rather long, hind pairs plainly larger than others; 

 fenuu' IV nearly as long as body, tarsus I with 7 joints (4 enlarged), 

 II with 14, III with S. and I\' with S joints. Length of body 6 mm., 

 of femur I\', 5 mm. 



From Tablazo, Costa Rica, September (Tristan). 



Erginus subserialis Cambriilge. 



Biol. C. Arn. .\raclm. .Aran., II, .564. 19<)4. 

 L'ricuajo (Pac), 250 m. (B. and T.), and E\ lliguitn, near Sun Mateo 

 (Pac), January (H. and T.). 



Erginus parvulus n "p 



Daik red-brown, a few yellow d(»ts each side, and a line acntss 

 l)ehind the tubercles; legs pale yellowish. Dorsum mostly smooth, 

 a few granules; eye-tubercle spinulose each side; l)asal joint of mundi- 

 l)les ver>' much spinulose above, the second joint is greatly swollen 

 al)ove. Posterior tul)ercles large, acute, and less than their lengtii 

 apart; posterior segments granulate along the edge. Legs spinulose; 

 coxm III with a little cusp behind. I\* with a very large sj»ine at tip, 

 trochanter I\' with a small one on irmer side at tip; femur I\' about as 

 long as body, much roughened, on iiuier side near the middle is a series 

 of six teeth, none a.'^ long a-s width of joint, and on outer side near tip 

 is a series of five teeth, none iis long as width of joint ; patella and tibia 

 IV also much roughened. Tarsus I with 6 joints (3 enlarged). Ill with 

 7. IV with 7 joints. Length 4 nun. 



From San Isidro, Costa Rica (Tristan). * 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OK [April, 



Erginus sinuosus rainliriilge 



Hiol. C". Am. Araclin. Aran.. II. .mS. 100'). 



Tablazo, Septonihrr. 

 Hernandria spinosa n. sp. 



Pale roddish-hrown. leg? and palpi paler; eye-tubercle with two 

 small spines above. Doi-sal shield with two pairs of small tubercles, 

 and a larger apical pair; the second of the posterior segments with a 

 larger, yellow, median spine; longer than those on doi-sal shield, small 

 spines on the edges of these segments; doi-sal shield with two deep 

 transverse grooves. Legs moderately slender, with rows of short 

 spine-like granules, the patellne slightly enlarged; coxrc I, II and IV 

 granulate on upper sides, coxa IV with a large spine at tip above; 

 tarsi III and IX very broad and flattened, and at tip an apical process 

 over the claws; tarsus I with 5 joints, II with 11, III with 6, IV witli 

 6 joints. Palpi with spines, tibia? with two long and one short (apical) 

 on outer side, two long and two short on inner side, tareus with tw^o 

 long and two short each side, claw as long as tarsus. Length 5 mm., 

 femur IV 4 mm. 



From Santa Maria Dota. January (Tristan), Costa Rica. 



Palpinus leevis Cambridge. 



Biol. C. .\ni. Arachn. Aran., II, 577, 19U5. 



La Palma. 

 Metapachylus rugosus n. -p 



Red-brown on body and legs, palpi, mandibles and trochanters pale 

 yeUow, in the male the legs are more yellowish. Body very much 

 roughened, a large spine on eye-tubercle curving forward, a small one 

 at each anterior corner of the cephalothorax; dorsal shield with lateral 

 row of granules, and about 8 transverse rows of spine-like granules 

 on abdomen, and the last segment with two rows of granules, each 

 granule is tipped by a hair; ventral segments also with rows of granules, 

 hardly as large as those above; legs also roughened, except on the 

 metatarsi and tarsi, many granules on coxse, trochanters and femora 

 are tipped by bristles; tarsus I with 3 joints, II with 7, III with 5, IV 

 with 6 joints. Femur of palpus with three spines beneath (two basal), 

 tibia and tarsus with two each side. In male the legs are ver}^ much 

 longer, especially the hind pair, of which the femur, tibia, and meta- 

 tarsus are each longer than the body, and metatarsus IV has above 

 four granules of which one is apical. Length 4.5 mm., tibia IV 6 mm. 



From San Isidro, San Jos6, Santa Maria Dota (Tristan), Uricuajo 

 (Pac), 200 meters (Biolley and Tristan), Atenas, 2d June (Picado), 

 and La Bolca (Picado); all Costa Rica. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA, 231 



Mitopus australis n. sp. 



Pale brown, mottled with black, middle of eye-tubercles white. 

 Dorsum densely minutely granulate, two little elevations on the 

 anterior margin, each with three or four little teeth; eye-tubercles 

 spiniilose, three first abdominal segments each with a submedian 

 pair of sharp spines, next two with four spines, last with two; each 

 segment with a few minute spinules, and on anterior border of abdomen 

 a curv^ed series of minute spinules; legs with rows of very prominent 

 spinules, and at tips of femora and patella:' are several larger spinules; 

 coxae minutely spinulose, each spinule bearing a black hair. Femur, 

 patella, and tibia all thick and hea\y, metatarsi and tarsi very slender, 

 femur I longer than width of body, II as long as body. Length 4.5 mm. 



From San Jose, Costa Rica (Tristan). 



Phalangiam ornatipes n. sp. 



Body l)rown, paler below, dorsum darkest in front, a paler median 

 stripe which expands to sides at middle of length ; palpi pale, brown 

 on base of femur, patella, and base of tibia; trochantci's of legs jialc 

 yellowish, also extreme bases of femora, rest of femora brown, i)atclla 

 brown, with a pale streak above, tibia brown on base, paler beyond, 

 metatarsi and tarsi pale. Ej'e-tuborcle smooth; a cluster of small 

 spines each side on front margin; palpi very short. Doi-sum witii 

 eight traasverse rows of six spine-like tubercles, the median i)air of 

 each row much larger than othei-s, coxa? slightly granulate, a small 

 white spine at anterior tip of each co.xa, except I where it is on the 

 posteri(jr tip. Legs rather short. Length 7 nun. 



From La Fortuna Cervantes (Tristan), Costa Rica. 



Liobnnam biolleyi u. sp. 



Anterior part of cephalothorax brown, tubercle and middle jiart 

 l)lack; alxlomen black; c(jxtD and venter pale brown, trochantei"s aiul 

 rest of legs black, tips pale, a prominent yellow spot at tip of hind coxa; 

 two golden yellf)w spots each side near apc.x of abdomen above, and 

 sometimes a yellowish spot each side in front of these; palpi brown 

 on base, tarsus pale yellowish, mandibles pale. The cephalothorax is 

 pitted, and a narrow pitted l)and on ba.se of the abdomen, then a largo 

 area, densely pitted, occupying most of dorsum, and the posterior 

 segments each with a pitted band; coxa; and sternum granulate, venter 

 less strongly so; eye-tubercle with a few minute spicules above in 

 front; legs very long and slender. Length G mm. 



From Congrejal de Aserri (Pac), SOO meters, April (Biolley). 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Liobanam ooriaoenm CambridKe. 



Bid. C. Am. Arachn. Aran., II, 5S2, lUUo. 



Turrialba. 

 Liobanam tristani n. sp. 



Dark brown, anterior part of the cephalothorax paler, a yellowish 

 mark on each side of the abdomen behind, one or two dots on the pos- 

 terior dorsal segments; palpi and mandibles wholly pale yellow; 

 coxse and trochantei*s black, the suture white, and a white (or yellow) 

 spot at apex of hind coxa; rest of legs brown, patellar rather darker; 

 sternum and venter dark brown or black, each side at base of the 

 abdomen is more yellowish. The cephalothorax is pitted, a pitted 

 band on basal part of abdomen, then a large square pitted area occupy- 

 ing most of dorsum, and the posterior segments each with pitted band ; 

 coxffi and sternum densely granulate; venter with a row of granules 

 on each segment; legs only finely granulate, of moderate length, eye- 

 tubercle with a few spicules in front above. In the male the body is 

 broader and flat, of a rather uniform brown, densely pitted; eye- 

 tubercle with more prominent spicules ; palpi rather long, tarsi slightly 

 curved. Length, $ 6 mm., c? 5 mm. 



From Fortuna Cervantes (Biolley and Tristan), San Jose, and La 

 \'erbena, near San Jos6, "on the stones near the river, thrive in dark 

 places" (Tristan); all Costa Rica. 



Liobanam annalipes n. sp. 



Marmorate with brown and yellowish; eye-tubercle pale; a narrow 

 brown line reaches to front margin, some pale median spots behind; 

 coxse mostly brown, an irregular pale patch near base of each; ster- 

 num pale at base, dark on tip, venter pale, densely mottled with brown. 

 Palpi pale, except a brown band at base of tarsus. Legs pale, with 

 many brown bands, many of these brown bands contain a white mark; 

 trochanters mostly brown. Dorsum pitted as usual, eye-tubercle 

 smooth, coxffi granulate, venter slightly granulate; legs quite long, 

 especially the second pair. Length 7 mm. 



From Tablazo, Costa Rica, "on the ferns" (Tristan). 



Liobanam foveolatam Cambridge. 



Biol. C. Am. Arachn. Aran., II, 583, 1905. 



Tablazo. 



Liobanam frontale n. sp. 



Dark Ijrown, coxa? and trochanters same color; legs paler at base, 

 darker beyond, then pale toward tips; in front of eye-tubercle is a 

 white spot extending to front margin; palpi brown, tarsus pale; 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



mandibles pale; sternum yellowish. Dorsum jMtted as usual, coxa? 

 granulate, but spai"sely so on hind pairs; sternum and venter with few 

 granules; eye-tubercle smooth; legs very long, finely granulate; 

 palpi slender, tai-sus very long and slightly curved. Length 4 mm. 



From Embouchure du Rio Jesus Maria (Pac), January, Costa Rica 

 (BioUey and Tristan). 

 Liobunum laterale n- sp. 



Pale brown, coxae and trochanters a Httle darker, rest of legs paler, 

 at tip of coxa IV is an indistinct pale spot; a black streak each side 

 near middle of doi-sum; venter pale yellowish on the extreme upper 

 ends of the basal three segments; palpi and mandibles pale. The dor- 

 sum is densely pitted, with a narrow pitted band on base of abdomen, 

 and on posterior segments; the cox» are densely granulate, the ster- 

 lumi and bands on ventral segments less strongly so; the ej'c-tubercle 

 with \erv minute spicules above; the patellae of the palpi have a very 

 distinct process from the inner tip; legs not veiy long. The male is 

 similar to the female, with longer legs, the abdomen flat and short, 

 with the two dark streaks ; palpi with the process to patellae, the tai-sus 

 slender and curved. Length, 5 5 mm., cJ* 4 mm. 



From Chiral Paraiso, July (Biolley and Tristan), Fortuna Cervantes, 

 and Huacas (Pac.) (Tristan); all Costa Rica. 

 Liobunum intermedium n. •■]< 



Dark brown above, pale brown beneath, coxa' and trochantei-s pale 

 brown, legs pale at ba.se, darker near middle, and pale toward tips; 

 pali>i mostly pale; mandibles pale yellowish; a golden yellow spot at 

 tip of coxa I\', no golden spots behind (as in L. hiolleyi). Doi-sum 

 pitted as usual; eye-tubercle minutely spinulate; coxa? granulate, 

 sternum and venter le.ss so; legs of female rather short, of male much 

 longer; patella of palpus with an inner jirojection at tip in both sexes. 

 Length, 9 5 mm., c" 4 mm. 



From Fortuna Cervantes (Tristan and I'inllcy). racaca. and 

 Turricares. I-'ebruary (Tristan); all Costa Rica. 

 Liobunum oozalii n. sp. 



I'ody reddish. Cdxa- and triichaiitci"s deep black, legs j);ilc, but base 

 near trochanters is blaek. eye-tubercle black, pal|)i an<l mandibles 

 pale yellowish. 



Dorsum (d^) short ami l)road, densely pitted; eye-tubercle smooth; 

 cftxa granulate, venter and sternum slightly so, sterniun very l)roa(l; 

 palpi of moderate length, the patelhe with a minute tootii at inner tip; 

 legs not very long. Length 2.5 mm. ^ 



From Tejar <le Cartago. Costa Rica (Tristan). 




234 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 

 SOLPUGIDA. 



[April, 



Ammotreoha ttolli Pocock. 



Ann. Man. N«t- Hist. (6). XVI. ;)7, is'.)'). 

 San Jos^. 2d May (Picado). 



Pl.\te \' 

 Fig. 

 Fig. 

 Fig. 

 Fig. 

 Fig. 

 Fig. 

 Fig. 

 Fig. 

 Fig. 

 . Fig. 

 Fig. 

 Fig. 

 Fig. 

 Fig. 

 Fig. 

 Fig. 

 Fig. 

 Fig. 



Plate V 

 Fig. 

 Fig. 

 Fig. 

 Fig. 

 Fig. 

 Fig. 

 Fig. 

 Fig. 

 Fig. 

 Fig. 

 Fig. 

 Fig. 

 Fig. 

 Fig. 

 Fig. 

 Fig. 

 Fig. 

 Fig. 

 Fig. 

 Fig. 

 Fig. 

 Fig. 

 Fig. 

 Fig. 

 Fig. 

 Fig. 

 Fig. 

 Fig. 

 Fig. 



EXPLAN.\T10N OF PlATES V AND \'I. 



ig. 1. — Sidusa fetnoralis. 



-Ph idippus iiicontesta . 



-Selen op>^ h if u rca tus. 



-Li/cosa fristani. 



-Clubionn triftlatu. 



-Sidusa feniorali.s. 

 7. — Cj/rene fnnnosn. 

 8. — Mctrinpelmn zchrata. 

 9. — Phdtiids »inrqinalis. 

 10. — SjHiras.siis crnssus. 

 11. — Ci/retie dolo.m. 

 12. — Sparassus audax. 

 14. — Dendrtjphantefi comptnu. 

 15. — Trachelas morosa. 

 16. — Metriopelma morosa. 

 17. — Sidusa tarsnlis. 

 18. — Strotarchus yuinor. 

 19. — Clubiona (umivulrn. 

 20 . — Lycosa sign i ventris . 



I — Fig. 21. — Sarinda pretiosa. 

 22. — Xeriene bisigriata. 

 23. — Xeriene postica. 

 24. — Scytodes intricnta. 

 25. — Epicadus gramdatus. 

 26. — Theridium biolleyi. 

 27. — Cupiennius minimus. 

 28. — Pelayo insignis. 

 29. — Dipcena micratida. 

 30. — Pseudomela hella. 

 31. — Xeriene po.'itica. 

 32 . — Corinna m odesta . 

 33. — Sosippus ogalenoides. 

 34. — Tetragnatha confratema. 

 35. — Lycosa biolleyi. 

 36. — Erhrm us iropicalis. 

 37. — Tcudis bicolor. 

 38. — Cyrene tnagnifica. 

 39. — Epeirn microsomn. 

 40. — -t ?iyphwna delicntuln. 

 41 . — Lif.'tsomanes convexus. 

 42. — Litro.tn tristani. 

 43. — Lyco.Ha morosina. 

 44. — Lithyphantes hermosa. 

 4.5. — fJpeira microsoma. 

 . 46. — Telragnatha tristani. 

 . 47. — Corinna pirlipes. 

 , 48. — Tendis elegans. 

 , 49. — Eutichurus frontalis. 

 . 50. — Xeriene postica. 




1909.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 235 



POLYCHiETOUS ANNELIDS FROM MONTEREY BAY AND SAN DIEGO. 



CALIFORNIA. 



BY J. PERCY MDORK. PH.D. 



In this paper are recorded the results of a study of the California 

 Polychseta belongino; to the Museum of Leland Stanford Junior Uni- 

 versit}^ whicli were suljniitted to me at \-arious times by Profs. 

 Harold Heath and W. K. Fisher of that iastitution. Descriptions of a 

 few new species from San Diego have been puliUshed ah-eady in these 

 Proceedings for 1904, pp. 4S4-5(J3. The locaUties at wliich the coilec- 

 tioas were made are limited to two, namely: the vicinity of Monterey 

 Bay. at about tlie middle of the California coast, where Mr. M. H. 

 Spaulding collected in 1903 and 1904, chiefly at Pacific Grove, and 

 San Diego, chiefly on a sand-bar in the bay, near the southern boundary 

 of California, where Prof. E. C. Starks collected during 1902 and 

 1903. At both places the collecting was nearly limited to the littoral 

 zone between tide limits, though a few dredgings were also made. 

 A few specimens collected at Pacific Grove by Prof. Heath and 

 presented to this Academy some yeai-s ago are also mentioned. In 

 all cases where nothing different is stated it will be understood that 

 the sjx'cimens were taken between tides and by one of the two gentle- 

 men who made the bulk of tlie collections. Also, unless othei-wise 

 stated, the types of new species are in the Museum of Stanford I'ni- 

 versity. A set of cotypes and duplicates has l)een added to the col- 

 lection of the Academy of Natural Scicnci-s of Phihulelphia. 



The tf)tal numi)er of species mentioned is ()4. of which 21 arc con- 

 sidered to have l>een previously undesciibed. While this nuist rep- 

 resent a small j)art only of the Polycluctc fauna of that region the 

 records are imjxirtant because they arc in nearly all cjises material 

 extensions of the known ranges of the species. Scarcely anything 

 has hitherto been i)ublished concerning the Polj'cha^ta of the coast 

 of the southern half of California or of the Pacific coast of Mexico and 

 a rich field for faunal investigation remains. When these collections 

 were placed in my hands for study it was ho|)e(l that Prof. H. P. 

 Johnson's projected paper on the Polycha^ta of California would be 

 available for tlu'lr deterinination. I)ut this much-desired publication 

 has lxH»n unavoidal)lv delaved. ^ 




236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



SYLLID^. 

 Syllis elon^ata Jolinson. 



Pionofti/llia ehngnln (Johnson'). Proc. Hos. 8oc. Xat. Hist.. XXIX, pp. 

 40^-405; PI. (5. figs. 07-70; PI. 7. fig. 71. 



Dredged at Delmonte wharf, vicinity of Monteroy Bay, .Inly 12, 1904. 



A fine specimen 40 nini. long, ^vith 103 segments, the last 2S or 29 

 of which are mucli tlistended with sperm and elongated to three times 

 tile length of the preceding 29 segments. The notocirri are more 

 tapered and acute than represented in Johnson's figure. This species 

 is very sknder and in general aspect closely resembles Si/Uis gracilis 

 (iruhe. At least the doi'salmost seta of many of the middle segments 

 has the appendage coalesced with the stem to form l)ifurcate seta^ 

 as in that species. Probably it should l)e placed in ^>rril^s subgenus 

 Synsyllis. It certainly departs widely from the type of Pionosyllis 

 in the form of its setae and its strongly moniliform tentacles and cirri. 

 The posterior region is so much enlarged that it seems i)ro])able that it 

 separates at maturity. 



Trypanosyllis intermedia sp. nov. (Plate VII, figs, l nnd 2). 



An imperfectly known species resembling T. gemmiporn Johnson 

 in general aspect, but readily distinguished from that species by the 

 much longer appendages of its setae. 



Length of the anterior SO segments of an incomplete specimen, 18 

 mm. ; maximum width between tips of parapodia, 2 mm. 



Prostoniium quadrate, silghtly wider than long, with a median dorsal 

 furrow. Eyes small, red, doi-so-lateral ; the anterior slightly farther 

 apart and less than one-eighth the width of the prostomium ; the pos- 

 terior pair about one-twelfth the ^^■idth of the prostomium and separ- 

 ated from the anterior by an ecjual distance. Palpi about as long as 

 prostomium, projecting fonvard and widely divergent. Tentacles 

 all missing. 



Anterior end of body brcjad and strongly depressed, becoming 

 gradually less so posteriorly. Segments all extremely short and 

 crowded, especially anteriorly, where they are slightly biannulate. 

 Pygidium unknown. 



Parapodia uniramous, short, stout and slightly notched distally. 

 Neurocirri short, cylindrical, rounded distally, and arising from middle 

 of ventral face of neuropodia, the end of which they scarcely reach. 

 Notocirri arising from prominent cirrophores immediately above 

 the base of the neuropodia; styles ver}^ readily detached and only a 

 few remaining so that their relative length is unknown, those remain- 

 ing rather stout, swollen beyond base and thence tapered to the blunt 




1909.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 237 



end. the longer ones about equal to total width of worm and with about 

 20 short articles, the shorter two-thirds as long with about 15 articles. 



Acicula three, tapered, with the ends blunt, .slightly flattened and 

 just perceptibly enlarged. Setae few (about 9-11), all subacicular, 

 colorless, with rather strongly curved stems acutely beveled at the 

 end, smooth, with a slight shoulder for attachment of the appendage 

 (Plate \'II, figs. 1 and 2); length of appendages varying from one 

 and one-third times (on posterior parapodia) to more than twice (on 

 anterior parapodia) the distal thickness of the stems, their distal ends 

 hooked and conspicuoush' bifid, the teeth being mucii more widely 

 separated on posterior seta^, on which also the marginal fringe is much 

 less developed. 



The single incomplete specimen was taken at "point above Third 

 Beach," vicinity of Monterey Bay, July 12, 1904. 



PHYLLODOCID^. 

 Phyllodoce medipapillata sp. nov. (Plate VJI, fi','s. 3 and 4). 



The two e.xamples upon which this si)ecies is based differ greatly 

 in appearance and degree of contraction, one being robust, the other 

 very slender. Length of type 100 mm., ma.ximum width of l)ody 

 1.8 mm., total width including parapodia 3.5 mm.; iunn])er of .'Seg- 

 ments 201. Length of cotype 170 mm., width of body 3.5, total width 

 including parapr)dia S mm. ; number of segments 240. 



Prostomium rather thick, depres.sed, broad, slightly cordate behind; 

 al)out as wide as long, the greatest breadth at the eyes about one- 

 third of the length from the posterior end, the sides very strongly 

 convex at this point ; anterior l)()rd('r broadly rounded, projecting 

 slightly beyond tentacles. Eyes circular, their diameter al)out one- 

 eighth to one-tenth width of prostomium, at the widest part of which 

 they are situated, separated by about one-half its width. The tentacles, 

 which arise from a shallow annular depression, short conical, diverging 

 equally in both directions, about as long as one-third width of prosto- 

 mium. Xuejial organs everted as prominent knobs l)etween sides of 

 prostomimn and peristr)mium just bel(»w eyes. A mimite michal 

 tul)ercle, about one-third diameter of nuchal organs, occujiies the 

 posterior emargination of the j)rostomium. 



Pcristoniium and somite II coalesced. :ieli:etous, nearly c(Hiceale<l 

 al)ove by the prostomial lobes, between wiiicji the miclial tubercle 

 projects; below forming a smooth, somewhat swollen lip. Except in 

 the character of its parapodia III is similar to succeeding segments. 

 Tentacular cirri all short, with distinct cirrophores and rather Vloiit 




238 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April. 



styles tapcriiiji to ilelicato tips. On the typo they reacli to the fol- 

 lowing segments; that of I to \II, liorsal of II and III Ixiiii to IX. 

 ventral of II to \l or \U. On the cotype. whicii ha.'< the anterior 

 segments much contracted, each reaches about three segments farther 

 caudad. 



The body of the type is slender, slightly depro?sed. flattened ventraliy , 

 widest in anterior foiu'th. and tajiei-s regularly caudad; the length of 

 the segments varies from one-fifth the width anteriorly to two-thirds 

 width posteriorly. As noted above the cotype is much contracted 

 and consecjuently much stouter. Pygidium unknown. 



Parapodia (Plate \'II. fig. 3) luiiramous. jirominent, strictly lateral, 

 posteriorly equaling width of somites. That of I a tentacular cirrus 

 (neurocirrus) only; of II doi-sal and ventral tentacular cirri (notocirrus 

 and neurocirrus); III the first setigerous. T\'pical parapodia consist 

 of somewhat flattened neuropodia supported by a single, stout, tapered 

 acicuhun and divided at the distal end into a low, entire post-setal lip 

 and a slightly more prominent presetal lip divided by a notch into 

 supra-acicular and subacicular lobes, to the doi-sal border of the latter 

 of which the slightly curved end of the aciculum is adherent. 



Foliaceous notocirri begin on I\' and foliaceous neurocirri on III; 

 both are prominent and the former strongly imbricated on the dorsum 

 of the parapodia. Xotocirrophores prominent, erect, well separated 

 from the neuropodia, more than half as long as the latter and equally 

 broad. Styles not strongly asynunetrical, with basal auricles only 

 slightly. developed, those of anterior segments nearly regularly ovoidal, 

 with bluntly rounded ends and about two-thirds as wide as long. 

 Farther back they increase in size and become more slender (twice 

 as long as wide) and more acutely tipped, without any trace of the 

 truncate end seen in so many species, though the tips of some are 

 slightly reciu'ved. On middle somites they approach nearer to the 

 ovate-lanceolate form usual in Eulalia rather than the form usually 

 characterizing Phyllodoce. In the posterior third they again become 

 shorter and broader — much like poplar leaves — with rather abruptly 

 acuminate tips. Rather firmly attached, of thin, membranous tex- 

 ture and with a striated border of colored glands. Neurocirri attached 

 by low, broad cirrophores to the bases of the neuropodia. Styles all 

 ver\' large and foliaceous and projecting one-third or more of their 

 length beyond the neuropodia. On the first few segments they are 

 very broad and subelliptical, but soon become more acute and asym- 

 metrical and gradually much more elongated and slender. 



Setse (Plate \TI. fig. 4) all colorless, in fan-shaped supra- and sub- 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 239 



acicular fascicles of (in the type) from eight (on l\) to twenty-six (on 

 XXV), decreasing to eleven or twelve at CL, the cotype bearing about 

 one-third as many more. Stems slightly curved and slightly enlarged 

 distally to form an ol)lique socket, each side of which beare a small 

 l)rush of hairs, none of which is enlarged. Appendages very long, 

 slender, tapering, slightly curved, with a border of minute serrations; 

 their length is from more than one-half to nearly the depth of the 

 neuropodia and they vary little in the different regions. 



Proboscis of type fully extended, clavate, 7 mm. long, l.S nun. in 

 distal and 1.2 mm. in basal diameter. Orifice surrounded by nineteen 

 rather prominent, compressed ovoid papillae. Greater part of surface 

 smooth, with six very obscure longitudinal ridges becoming gradually 

 more roughened toward the base. Papilla? confined to basal one-sixth 

 or le.ss, arranged in si.x longitudinal rows on each side separated by 

 dorsal and ventral intervals, of which the former is the greater antl 

 alK)ut ecjuals the width of the papillated areas. The papilUi' are 

 slightly flattened and the posterior face is brown. Each row contains 

 from nine or ten (ventral) to twelve (dorsal), the increased number 

 resulting from a few papilla^ placed irregularly at the anterior end of 

 the more doi-sal rows. In addition to the paired series, about four or 

 five very small papilla? form an irregular dorso-median ro\\-. Except 

 for the greater contraction the ])ro]H)scis of the cotype is exactly 

 similar. 



Color of type confined to a brownish tinge on the doi-sum and 

 notocirri ; cotype uniform pur))lish-brown. 



Type locality, vicinity of .Mf)nteroy Hay. .M. 11. Sj)aulding. Tiu* 

 cotype was taken at San Diego by K. C. Stark. 



Phyllodoce 'Carobiai castanea Mareiuellcr. 



Citrohiii ciistnued v. .MartMizcllcr, Donksclir. I\. Af.-td. \\ issciiscli., W'icn 

 XLI (1.S79), .Matli-naturw. CI., 2d Ahtli., pp. 127, VIS, Tal). III. fiR. 2. 



.\ much contracted specimen which agrees very closely with 

 v. Marenzeller's description was dreflged by .Mr. Spaulding on July 12, 

 VMY.\, at Dclmonte wharf, near Monterey- I'ay. Length 21 mm.; 

 segments 100. 



Trostomium regularly subovate. abotit as broad as long, truncate 

 posteriorly with a very slight median emargination ; no anterior 

 Cf)nstriction or furrow. Eyes very large, doi-so-lateral, about one- 

 fourth diameter of prostomiiun and about an equal distance a|)art. 

 Tentacles lateral and ventro-lateral, near anteri(»r end of prostomium. 

 directed almost laterad and very little forward, acutely subulate, 

 thickened tcjward ba.se, the dorsal pair as long as prostomium,* the 

 ventral two-thirds as long. 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Tentacular cirri very much cnnvded. slijjhtly flattcnod. vcmv short, 

 the longest (doi-sal of II) about four times length of {jrostomium and 

 reaching VII, the shortest (ventral of II) about twice prostoniium, 

 the remaining two subequal and about two and one-half times prosto- 

 miiun. Peristomium and II coalesced and scarcely visible from 

 above. There may be a minute nuchal tubercle, but this is uncertain. 

 Pygidium a minute ring bearing a pair of short, subulate cirri. 



Xotocirrophores low and broad, styles rather thick and easily 

 detached, in this specimen carried nearly erect over the parapodia; 

 broadly foliaceous, nearly uniform in size and shape throughout, 

 triangular ovate, about three-fifths as wide as long with rounded 

 apex and oblique but not auriculate base, the markings arranged 

 l)ipinnately from a central axis. 



Neurocirri foliaceous, subquadrate clUptical, all free surfaces 

 evenly rounded, very broadly attached to venter of neuropodium 

 and carried posterior to the latter, scarcely reaching beyond end of 

 neuropodium. 



Aciculum single, stout, tapered, straight. Setae in spreading, 

 vertical series, colorless, transparent, rather stout, w^ith curved stems 

 rather abruptly enlarged distall3^ the margins of the socket bearing 

 a single series of rather long hairs. Appendages short, their length 

 not exceeding one-third depth of parapodia, very delicate, broad at 

 base but rapidly tapering to a tenuous tip; marginal serrations scarcely 

 visible. Six supra- and ten subacicular setie on middle parapodia. 



Color pale reddish-brown, brightest on notocirri and anterior 

 dorsum of Ijody. Female with immature eggs. 



POLYNOID^. 

 Halosydna pulchra (Johnson). 



Poh/noc pulrhrn John.son, Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci. (3), Zoology, I (1S97), pp. 

 l'77-179, PI. VII, fig.s. 34, 43a; PI. Mil, figs. 50-506. 



Three specimens occur in the collection, two certainly from the 

 Monterey Bay region, the other unla))eled but probably from the same 

 place. C)f the first two one was commensal on the holothurian Sticho- 

 pus, the other on Cryptochiton. The latter is a fine specimen with 

 milk-white elytra marked with a small, round, clear-cut black spot 

 over the area of attachment. 

 Halosydna brevisetosa KinUrg. 



Halosydna brevisetosa Kiiiberg, Ofver. K. Vetensk. .\kad. forli., XII 

 (1855), p. 385. 



Two small specimens were taken at San Diego, others in the vicinity 




1909.] XATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



of Monterey Bay, at "big tide pool, Lighthouse Point," on June 28, 

 1904, and at "point above Third Beach." on JiUy 12, 1904. 

 All of the specimeas are dark colored, with heavily mottled elytra. 



Halosydna reticulata (Johnson). 



Pohjnoe reticulata Johnson, Proc. Cal. .\cad. Sci. (3), Zoologv, I, pp. 170. 

 171; PI. VII, figs. 32-41a, PI. VII, figs. 47-476. 



Eleven specimens from San Diego occur in the collection and only 

 two from Monterey Bay, where they were dredged on July 9, 1904. 



These specimens exhibit considerable variation. Some are almost 

 pigmentless and of a nearly uniform pale yellow, gra}^ or brown; 

 others are thickly mottled with deep brown on the elytra and barred 

 on both dorsal and ventral surfaces of the body. Usually a brown 

 spot or ring is present on the elytra over the point of attachment. 

 The elytra differ greatly in the degree to which the surface is roughened 

 with conical projectioas and in the number of marginal cilia. The 

 latter appear to be gradually lost with increased age and size. They 

 are plentiful on the eh'tra of small specimens and on newly regenerated 

 elytra, fewer on those of medium size and frequently totally absent 

 from larger specimeas, as is the case with the two from Monterey Bay. 

 As a result of loss and regeneration the elytra of some specimeas are 

 of very unecjual size. The labels give no information concerning 

 commeasalism. 



Lepidonotus caeloris Mwre. 



Lepidoriotus cwloris Moore, Proc. .\cad. Nat. .Sci. Pliila., 1003, pp. 412-414, 

 PI. XXIII, fig. 12. 



A solitary specimen of small size was dredged at Delmonte wharf, 

 Monterey Bay, on July 12. 1004. 



Lepidasthenia gigas (Johnson). 



PohiniM (/iija.i ,J()lin.son, Proc. Cal. .\cafl. l^ci. (3), Zoologv, I. pp. 172-17.'); 

 PI. VII, fig.s. 33, 426; PI. VIII, figs. 48, 49. 



Three examples from San Diego. One ha*^ the j^arapodia nuich 

 entangled with Torobellid tentacles and pr()l)ably came from the tube 

 of the Amphitrite with which Joha^^on states that it lives commensally. 

 N'otopodial setie are more usually present in the anterior parapodia, 

 and the first paraj)odium boars a single seta of a form intcrmcdiato 

 between the typical notopodial and netiropodial types. 



One specimen SO mm. long and having S3 somites ha*? the elytra 



arranged in synmietrical pairs, except on somite LX\'. which bears 



the right one only, the left side i^earing a notocirrus; there are 39 pairs 



on the segments rnimbored 2, 4. 5. 7. 9. 11. 13. 17, 19. 21. 25. 27. 2S, .30, 



16 ^ 




LM2 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



31. 33, 35. 37, 31). 41, 43, 45. 47, 48. 52, 54. 55, 56. 58, 60. 61. 62. 66. 67. 

 68.69.70.71.72. 



SIGALEONID^. 

 Sthenelais fusoa Johnson. 



Sthenelnis fusca Johnson. Proc. Cal. Aca«l. Sci. (3), Zoolocy, I, pp. 1S5-1S6; 

 ri. IX, figs. 60-616, PI. X, figs. 64, Mg. ^- ' > i^t 



Two examples from San Diego and one from Chinatown l^oint, 

 August 12, 1004. 



One specimen is 110 mm. long with 172 paii-s of elytra; the other is 

 about the same size, but the number of elytra was not counted. The 

 first mentioned has a caudal regenerating region of about a dozen 

 segments, so that it is probable that the species reached a considerably 

 larger size than the original description indicated. The fii-st pair of 

 elytra is pale and without markings, the others are of a darker brown, 

 thickly and finely mottled with a reticular pattern of black. The 

 pygidium, which was not described by Johnson, bears a pair of subanal 

 cirri about as long as the last six or seven segments and of slender, 

 tapered form. The distal papillae of lioth rami of the parapodia are 

 freciuently more numerous than indicated in Johnson's figure. 

 Feisidice aspera Johnson. 



Peisidice aspera .lohnson,' Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci. (3), (Zool.), Vol. I, pp. 184 

 185; PI. IX, figs. 56-59; PI. X, figs. GSa-d. 



A single specimen with twenty-one paii-s of elytra, dredged at Del- 

 monte wharf, vicinity of Monterey Bay, on July 12, 1904, represents 

 this species in the collection. 



AMPHINOMID^. 



Earythoe californica Jc-hnson. 



Evrylhoe californica John.son, Proc. Calif. Acad. Sci. (3), Zoology, I, pp. 184 

 185; PI. IX, figs. 56-59, PI. X, figs. 63-63f/. 



This species is represented in the collection by about a dozen speci- 

 mens from San Diego and a single one from Monterey Bay, collected 

 on July 12, 1904, from the "point above Third Beach." 



Johason gives no account of the proboscis, and as one of the 

 specimens has it protruded the following brief description is added. 

 It is about 3 mm. long and 1.8 mm. in diameter, subcylindrical, but 

 slightly compressed and slightly wider distally than at the base. It 

 terminates in a firm elliptical disk, with a vertical slit open ventrally 

 and a central depression in which the mouth lies; surrounding this 

 disk is a low annular fold. The cuticle is everywhere smooth, without 

 papillae, jaws or teeth of any kind. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



HESIONID^. 



Podarke pugettensis Johnson. 



Podurke puqeUejisis Johnson, Proc. Bos. Soc. Xat. Hist., XXIX (1901), 

 pp. 397, 398; PI. 3, figs. 23-25. 



About fifty specimens collected at San Diego are stated to have 

 been "parasitic on starfish." 



The occurrence of this species on a starfish (Luidia) in the vicinitj'^ 

 of Port Townsend has been already reported in these Proceedings for 

 1908 and it seems probable that this habit is general. The reference 

 by Harrington and Griffin in their paper on Puget Sound Inverte- 

 Ijrates to "the curious Ophiodromits, an annelid that lives between 

 the arms of the starfish [Asterias] and is colored so as to resemble the 

 surface of the latter," probably relates to this species. 



The appendages of some of the dorsalmost seta' of the subacicular 

 fascicle and the ventralmost of the supra-acicular fascicle are much 

 longer and more slender than the othere. 



NEPHTHYDID^. 

 Nephthys ceeoa (Fn^ricius) Oersted. 



Xrnis cwca, Fabricius, Fauna Groenlandica, 1780, p. 304. 



Thia species is represented by six large specimens from the vicinity 

 of Monterey Bay and by about twenty from San Diego, where it appeal's 

 to be common and was taken from the littoral zone and down to a 

 depth of fifty feet. 



The San Diego examples are of small to medium size and colorless 

 or slightly marked with brown figures and bands on the prostomium 

 and a few anterior segments. The setae of some specimens are long, 

 of others short and one of the latter is filled with nearly mature ova. 



Those from Monterey Bay are much larger, measuring about 180 

 nun. in length and one counted having 152 segments. Three of them 

 are veiy smooth and colorless, except that there is a brown or black 

 "spread-eagle" figure on the i)rostomiuni and crossl)ai"s on a few an- 

 terior segments. The others have the body of a deep purplish brown 

 l)oth doi-sally and ventrally, the parapodia colorless. 



The free margins of the prostomium are thin and produced. The 

 serrated setjc ff)rm long MowiuL' tufts, dusky at the base, as long as 

 the parapodia or nearly o(|ual to the body widtli. The amiulatcd 

 seta? are short and small, except on anterior parapodia. Several 

 specimens have tlu* single caudal cirrus intart. 



The cxtrndcd |)roboscis is rather slendrr davate with ten bifid 

 orifical jjajtillu' above and ten below and twenty-two longitudinal 




244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [April, 



rovs's of conical papilla? of usually five each, the unpaired dor:?al and 

 ventral papilla? being no larger than the othere. 



No charactei-s distinfjuishing these specimens from examples of the 

 species from the Atlantic Ocean are ohvioius. 



NEREIDJE. 



Nereis procera Ehlcrs. 



Xcreis procera ElUers, Die Borstenwiirmer, 1S6S, pp. 557-559; Taf. XXIII, 

 fig. 2. 

 Ten specimens were taken in the vicinity of Monterey Bay, two 

 bearing each of the following labels: Point about Third Beach; Big 

 tide pool. Lighthouse Point. June 20, 1905, and June 28. 1904; dredged 

 July 9. 1904, and dredged Delmonte wharf, July 12.1 904. Of the three 

 from San Diego one is 3 mm. in diameter and filled with large eggs. 

 The parapodia and other parts exJiibit no epitokous modification. 



Nereis (Alitta) vexillosa Grubc. 



Nereis vexiUo/tn Grube, in Middondorff, Roisc in Sihpriens, etc., II, 1851, 

 p. 4; Taf. II, figs. 1, 5, 6. 



Taken at San Diego only; 14 small atokes and one small female 

 epitoke. The largast of the atokes is 50 mm. long, and all of them have 

 the notocirral laminae much less developed than on larger specimens. 

 One exserted proboscis has paragnaths arranged as follows: I, three 

 in a longitudinal series; II, tapering arcuate groups of three rows of 

 small cones ; III, transverse band in three rows; IV, wider curved band, 

 broader behind; V, absent; VI, four large cones in lozenge-shaped 

 figure; VII and VIII, broad transverse band encircling ventral and 

 lateral portion of basal ring, a tract of very small paragnaths in front 

 of ventral part. 



The epitoke is filled with large eggs. The parapodia agree with 

 Johnson's figure, but the setae are arranged somewhat differently. 

 Those of the dorsal rami are all of the "fish-bone" type, the stout 

 compound setae belonging to the dorsal supra-acicular fascicle of the 

 neuropodium. The paragnaths exhibit several peculiarities; their 

 number is generally reduced, those of VI are coalesced into a single 

 large one on each side; V is present as a single cone. 

 Nereis (Alitta) virens plenidentata sub.sp. nov. 



Under this name I am recording provisionally a species of Alitta 

 that appears to be quite common on the sand-bars in San Diego Bay. 

 The northern Pacific species, which is found from Ochotsk Sea and 

 Alaska south nearly to San Francisco, seems to differ from Atlantic 

 examples of A. virens in several respects, and particularly in having 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



more numerous paragiiaths and a greater number of segments. Prob- 

 ably it must be considered to be at least a subspecies under the name 

 of hrandti Malmgren. 



These specimens from southern Cahfornia exhibit more extreme 

 divergence in the same direction. Like both of the forms mentioned 

 the paragnaths are reduced in number with age and increased size, 

 but compared with specimens of the same size they are ver}' much 

 more numerous. For example a specimen 150 mm. long and 8 mm. 

 wide between the tips of the parapodia and having 218 segments^ has 

 the hard, black, strictly conical paragnaths arranged as follows: I, 

 3 in tandem; II. small groups of 7-9 in two ol:)lique rows; III, broad 

 dense, transverse band of small cones chiefly arranged in longitudinal 

 or somewhat oblique lines of six or seven each, with numerous shorter 

 lines and small groups uniting them anteriorly; W, dense, somewhat 

 arched, dumbbell-shaped groups of small cones, from three to five 

 across and tending to coalesce at their posterior ends with the lateral 

 borders of III; \', a diffuse subcu'cular area spreading laterally to 

 the level of W and with a median row of four large paragnaths reaching 

 anteriorly beyond the others; \\, a compact group of four or five large 

 cones forming a lozenge-shaped figure; \l and \'II coalesced and 

 forming a broad zone encirchng the basal ring of the proboscis below 

 the level of W and nearly joining \' above, the numerous cones (from 

 six to ten in the width of the band) increasing in size and becoming 

 more distant anteriorly and dorsally. 



The tentacles are also longer and most of the specimens are note- 

 worthy for the deep brown pigment deposited in the lamellar noto- 

 cirrophores. 



The relations of this form to X. viref2s and hrnndti will be discussed 

 fully at another time, when I hope to have for comparison specimens 

 from other parts of the California coast. 



.V. fnliatn Baird evidently a})plies to the northern form; .V. chilmsis 



Ehlers (= 77)oo.so Gniji Kinl)erg) is not at i)resent rec(tgnizal)l(', and 



there appears to be no name for this southern form. 



Nereis (Platynereis) agassizi Ehlcni. 



S'ereis agassizi Elilers, Die Horstonwiirnirr, ISOH, pp. ,')I2-,') IH; Taf. X.XIII, 

 fig. 1. 



A few small specimens were taken at San Diego and two at Monterey 

 Hay, one of the latter dredged and one between tides at the "point 

 above Tliird Beach." 



' A specinripn of .V. virens from New Jor^ov fif tin- name size has 130 segments. 




246 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



The San Diego specimens arc notoworlliy lor the very conspicuous 

 notopodial spots and in one case for the equally conspicuous spots on 

 the pygidiuni. The example dredged at Monterey is filled with small 

 eggs antl has the eyes enlarged, but is not otherwise modified. 



EUNICID^. 

 Eanioe (Eriphyle) paloloides sp. nov. (Plate Vir. (i^s. 5-7). 



The type of this species is a nearly complete worm closely related 

 to the celebrated "palolo" {Eunice riridis) which it resembles in 

 form. It consists of a thicker anterior non-sexual region of about 

 200 segments and a slender posterior sexual region of more than 550 

 segments. Owing to the softening of a portion of the worm the exact 

 point of transition cannot be determined and accurate measurements 

 cannot be given. The size and projjortions, however, closely approxi- 

 mate those of E. viridis. 



Prostomium (somewhat distorted by protrusion of the jaws) about 

 twice as wide as long, broadening anteriorly where it is divided into 

 two short, wide, broadly rounded lobes by a shallow emargination 

 which continues caudad as a dorso-median furrow; a transverse fur- 

 row passes across the posterior ventral part of each of these frontal 

 lobes. Five tentacles arranged in a nearly straight transverse line, 

 the middle one being slightly behind the othere and in contact with the 

 nuchal fold. Middle one slightly the longest (H times length of 

 prostomium), the lateral shortest and separated from the second pair 

 by a wider space than separates the latter from the median. All 

 regularly tapered and transversely wrinkled, l)ut not beaded or articu- 

 lated. Eyes conspicuous, with large lenses, situated between the 

 outer and inner paired tentacles close to base of latter. On one side 

 a rather coaspicuous pigment spot lies just anterior and external to 

 the lateral tentacle. 



Peristomium a slightly swollen naked ring consideral^ly longer than 

 the prostomium and forming a distinct nuchal fold dorsally, but little 

 swollen laterally. Somite II is a short, simple, apodous ring bearing, 

 close to the anterior border, and on a level with the lateral tentacles, 

 a pair of short conical nuchal cirri slightl}' longer than the segment. 



Segments of anterior region very short, flattened and concave 

 below, at first strongly arched above but gradually becoming flatter 

 and more depressed. Owing to the poor preservation of the segments 

 following CC it is not possible to determine at just what point the epi- 

 tokous sexual region separates, Ijut a marked softening of the tissues 

 and the enlarged size of the neural eye-spots (phototactic organs) on 




1909.] XATCJRAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 247 



subsequent segments indicates that it prol)ably occure at CCX, though 

 eye-spots of smaller size appear abruptly at CLII. 



The epitokous region is very slender, subterete or slightly depressed, 

 with a well-defined neural groove and distinct furrows separating 

 segments generally about three times as wide as long. Surrounding 

 each segment in the parapodial zone is a raised glandular band, some- 

 times single but oftener formed of two lines. Posteriorly the bod\' 

 tapers and is composed of numerous very small segments — evidently 

 a rapidly proliferating region. The ventral eye-spots form a neural 

 series of usually two spots to each segment: one on the glandular 

 girdle, the other at the intersegmental furrow, sometimes one, some- 

 times the other being larger and freciuently one or both subdivided. 



Pj'gidium tubular and somewhat elongated, obliciuely truncated 

 ^ith the small anus facing dorsad; posterior to anus two pairs of 

 conical caudal cirri, of which the doi-sal pair is about as long as the 

 diameter of the j\vgidium and nearly three times the ventral. 



Parapodia uniramal. Typical parapodia of the anterior region 

 consist of a short, broad, truncate ncuropodium, Ijcaring a low post- 

 setal fold behind the compound setae and a small presetal lolje in front 

 of the simple setae. The simple notocirrus springs without a cirru- 

 phore from above the neuropodium and is a bent, slightly tapered 

 Ijlunt i)roce.ss reaching a short distance ijeyond the distal end of the 

 foot. Neurocirrus consists of a low glandular eUiptical cirrophore 

 adnate to the side of the segment ventral to the parapodium and 

 bearing a small, blunt, cylindroid or conical style. Farther l^ack all 

 parts and particularly the cirri are gradually reduced in size. The 

 first parapodium (on III) has the setigerous lol)e rudimentary, bearing 

 only two or three setae, and consists chiefly of a simple notocirrus and 

 neurocirrus nearly in contact, the former shorter and stouter, the 

 latter about twice as long, more slender, obscurel}' articulated and 

 more or le.ss bent into a Ikiw. Several succeeding parapodia are 

 tran-sitional to the typical form, springing from a gradually rising level, 

 the neuropodium gradually increa.'^ing in size anil the cirri becoming 

 smaller. In the epitokous region the entire foot is much smaller, the 

 neuropodium a conical process wh(xse outlines pass into the dorsal and 

 ventral curvatures of the segments, the notocirrus a minute conical 

 process above the foot and at the ba.se of the gill, and a similarly formed 

 neurocirrus arising from a thick glandular ventral area or cirrophore. 



Gills appear as a pair of minute papillte on the medial side of the 

 base of the notocirri of CVII and increase in lengtii gradually tuitil 

 they become slender tapering filaments having a length of one-half 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



to one-third the body width, the longest oiifs in the neighborhood 

 of somite CC reaching eai?ily beyond the middle line; in the posterior 

 region they continue nearly to the pygidium and as far as the last 

 one hundred segments reach to the median line. 



Acicula anteriorly are three or four, stout, tapered, chiefly verj' dark 

 brown, the dark tips exposed, blunt, somewhat oblique but not knobbed. 

 Posteriorly there are but two and finally one, and except that they 

 become more slender there is no change in form. 



Setse are of two forms: simple supra-acicular and crtmpound sub- 

 acicular. No pectinate setiv are visiV^le in any of the preparations. 

 Simple seta? have long, slender shafts, dark colored toward the base, 

 but pale distally; they project prominently, the ends being slightly 

 doubly curved and gently tapered to ver>' slender acute tips with a 

 faint marginal fringe but no distinct limbus. Somite III bears only 

 three or four simple setse, the number increasing to about twenty on 

 X. Behind C the number again diminishes, but the seta become first 

 longer, then verj' few and of small size on the caudal segments. Com- 

 pound setffi (PI. VII, fig. 5) are enlarged toward the distal ends of the 

 shaft which bears a few small marginal teeth, the appendage broad, 

 bidentate and slightly hooked distally and provided \\ith a fringed 

 guard, its length one and one-half times width of enlarged end of 

 shaft and remarkably uniform on all parapodia. They are absent 

 from III and numerous by X, on which they form rows extending 

 anterior to and below the acicula. Farther back they undergo changes 

 similar to those affecting the simple setse. 



Mandibles (PI. MI, fig. 6j large, very hard, the horny carriers 

 yellowish with dark lines, very thick and firm, with an angular ridge 

 running the entire length. Jaw plates very large, white, calcareous, 

 of .stony hardness, each plate bent nearly into a semicircle at the free 

 margin which is faintly denticulated, the dorso-lateral angle freely 

 projecting. Maxilke (PI. VII, fig. 7) deep brown, hard. Carriers of 

 forceps jaws broad with lateral emarginations and the two halves 

 closely united except at the caudal end; forceps with broad bases 

 marked Vjy three longitudinal ridges, no masticatory teeth and short, 

 strongly hooked ends. Second pair (IIj rna-ssive with four stout teeth 

 on the left and three and a rudimentary fourth on the right side. 

 Three accessory jaws (III, IV, V) each with a single tooth on the 

 left side arranged in a semicircle and two, one with two teeth, the 

 other \vith a single tooth, on the right side. 



Color of anterior end deep, iridescent purple, posterior reproductive 

 region of male pale brown, of female greenish drab with white rings. 

 Ventral phototactic organs brown. 




1900.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 249 



Collected by Prof. E. C. Starks at Sail Diesro. Cal. Besides the 

 nearly complete type there is a frajzinent of the reproductive region 

 of a male and one of a female, both fully mature and probably nearly 

 ready to separate and swarm. 



The occurrence of a Eunice with the habits oi a "paloh^' worm on 

 the California coast is of much interest, and it is to be hoped that 

 some zoologist on the ground will determine its life-history and es- 

 pecially the habits of swarming and if possible the conditions affecting 

 it. While the species is cU^ely related to Eunice viridis and E. 

 siciliensis it is readily enough distinguished from both. 



Ennice biannulata MiK>ri>. 



Eiifticc hinnnuliita Mooro. Pror. Acad. N:it. ."^oi. Pliila.. 1901. pp. 4S7-490; 

 PI. XXXVII. figs. lO-lS; Plato XXXVIII. fip. 42. 



San Diego, type anil cotype only. 

 Ifarphysa stylobranchiata »v "ov. (J'liite VII. tigs. .'<-l2>. 



Form moilerately stout. Length about 1(X) nmi. the longest 110 

 mm. long and 4.5 mm. in maximum width at about XXX. Xuml>er 

 of segments 142-160. 



Prostomiimi about one-half as wide as long, divided anteriorly 

 into two broaiUy rouniled prominent entire lol>es which exhibit no 

 ventral furrow t)r swelling. Tentacles Hve, smooth, short, thick, 

 sausage-shaped, arranged in a slightly curved row near the posterior 

 end of the i>rostomiimi; middle one longest, nearly etpial to length of 

 prostomium, the outer pair shortest, about two-thirds length of middle 

 tentacle. Kyes small, Ix'hinil interval between outer ami middle ten- 

 tacles, or al)sent. 



I'eristomium about three times as long as first setigerous segmeiit, 

 perfectly naked, diviiled into two rings probably representing seg- 

 ments, the posterior slightly more than one-half anterior, from which 

 it is separated by a continuous faint groove. Laterally the anterior 

 ring projects somewhat forward and is tmitetl with the si(h>s of the 

 prostomium, thus concealing a small interiuil or mamlibular lobe. 

 Remaining segments well defined by ileep furrows, all short, strictly 

 uniannular. generally one-sixth to one-eighth lus long a.s wide. To 

 about somite \TII the body is (|uite terete, but soon l)ecomes wider 

 than tleep. the ratio in the miildle region being about jus five to three. 

 Posteriorly the IxKly tapers, first gently, then rapidly, to the pygidium, 

 which is short, annular, radially furrowtnl or rosetttnl and bears a pair 



of rather stout, tapering ventral cirri as long as the la-st five or six 



.... t 



segments and below these a second pair of minut*' cirri. 




250 PROCKKDIXGS OF THE ACADKMV OF [April, 



Parapdclia strictly imiramnus, lateral, the fii"st five or six more 

 ventral than the others. Xeuropodium short, stout, bearing a fleshy 

 post-acicular lobe on anterior parajjodia which disappears on middle 

 and posterior ones. Anterior to this is a row of conspicuous black 

 acicula and a rather complex group of setre. Notocirrus of fii-st 

 parapodium (III) rather stout, conical, tapering, simple, free from 

 but immediately above foot and about twice a,s long as the latter; 

 thence becoming graduallv smaller caudad and in branchial region 

 reduced to a mere tubercle, but increasing in length again posteriori}-. 

 Xeurocirrus coalesced with base of neuropodium, consisting of a stout, 

 swollen cirrophore and a short, thick, cylindroid, imperfectly differen- 

 tiated style; farther back the cirrophore merges more into the body 

 outline and the stvle becomes more slender but is otherwise unaltered. 



Gills simple, tapering filaments throughout. The first appeal's as a 

 minute papilla on the notocirrus of XVI to XX, but they are usually 

 not developed into efficient gills for several segments. At XXI or 

 XXII they are usually as long as the notocirrus; in the middle region 

 they reach the middle line and posteriorly gradually diminish in size 

 and finally disappear about twenty segments anterior to the pygidium. 



Acicula three to five anteriorly, simple, tapered, black, with pale 

 tips little or not at all exposed. They become gradually longer, 

 constantly three in number, conspicuous with prominently projecting 

 bluntly-pointed tips which are always pale with black cores. Some- 

 where between XX and XXX and on following segments an especially 

 large one diverges from the othei-s and j^rotrudes from the surface 

 between the neurocirrus and the compound setse. 



Setse all nearly or quite colorless, of three forms : two forms of simple 

 setae in supra-post-acicular fascicles and compound seta? in sub-pre- 

 acicular fascicles. Compound setse (PI. VII, fig. 10) numerous, es- 

 pecially anteriorly where they occur in several rows anterior as wtU 

 as ventral to the acicula; farther back they become fewer and are 

 confined to the ventral group. The stems are gently curved and 

 very little thickened distally; the appendages very uniformly of a 

 length about four times the distal diameter of the stem with obscurely 

 hooked bidentate tips and a finely fringed border separating at the 

 tip into the usual guard. The fascicles of simple seta? consist chiefly 

 of curved, capillary, slightly hmbate or at least flattened setaj (PI. 

 VII, fig. 8) considerably longer than the compound setse. Concealed 

 among the bases of the latter on the acicular side of the fascicle is a 

 group of ver}' delicate gouge-shaped, pectinate setse (PI. VII, fig. 9), 

 very few anteriorly, more numerous farther back and apparently all 

 of one form. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 251 



Jaws of somewhat soft and flexible brown chitinoid material, the 

 teeth somewhat whitened and hardened by a calcareous deposit. 

 Mandibles (PI. VII, fig. 11) coasisting of long, slender, strongly diver- 

 gent carriere, firmly united anteriorly and bearing white, hard, cal- 

 careous, subovate distal plates with smooth and entire margins. For- 

 ceps jaws (PI. \ll, fig. 12) ma.ssive, with an undivided, shield-shaped 

 base about three-fifths as wide as long, truncate distally, pointed 

 behind; the forceps stout with strongly ridged but toothless bases and 

 hooked tips flattened and angulated along the concavity. Second 

 pair of maxillae (II) also massive, the left one with three, the right 

 with four stout teeth. Maxillae (III) consist of a pair of crescentic 

 plates bearing ridges with five teeth on the left, six on the right side; 

 1\ bears three or four stout teeth on the left side and a low edentulous 

 ridge on the right side; \ is represented on the left side only and is 

 similar to the right I\'. 



Color in life unknown, l)ut probably pale reddish like other species 

 of the gems. 



Known only from the vicinitv of .Monterey Bay; "big tide pool. 

 June 20, 1905," E. C. Starks. 

 Marphysa calirornica ^p nov. (Plates VII and VIII, figs. 13-20). 



This species is ba.sed upon the anterior ends of two specimens, one 

 (type) very large, measuring 11 nmi. wide and SO mm. long for 92 

 segments, the other, consisting of 140 segments, 45 mm. long and '.I 

 mm. wide. Both are much contracted. 



Prostomium retracted l)eneath nuclial collar as far as base of ten- 

 tacles, the exposed portion nearly as wide as long and consisting 

 chiefly of the pair of broadly ovate frontal lobes divided by a median 

 furrow that reaches nearly to the median tentacle, but with no trace 

 of a ventral transverse furrow. Tentacles five, arising along a trans- 

 verse curved line, median and outer pair suberpial, the inner pair 

 slightly longer and about equal to on(.' and one-half times the width 

 of the prostomium. They are longer and more slender than those 

 of M. stylohrnnchiala and taper regularly to the end. being marked by 

 irregular, more or less conspicuous transverse wrinkles for the entire 

 length. Eyes one pair, inconspicuous and small, Ix-hind aixl external 

 to the base of the inner paired tentacles. 



I'eristomium large, terete, swollen and furro\ve<l laterally wiiere 

 it is more than three times as long as somite II, which is simple and 

 apodous and al)out a.s long as the succeeding jiodous segments. No 

 nuchal cirri. Remaining segments foot-bearing, the first five o^ six 

 terete and narrow, after whieh they Ix'come wider and more depres.sed 




252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [A])ril, 



but not longer, those of the anterior brancliial region Ix'ing ten to 

 twelve times as wide as long, decidedly dejDresscd and equally convex 

 doi*sally and ventrally. The smaller specimen is widest at about the 

 posterior end of the anterior fourth and tapere thence caudad. Caudal 

 end and pygidium unknown. 



Parapodia begin on II at a low level and gradually rise to about XV, 

 where they occupy about a middle level. Firet four small, the othere 

 of normal proportions and differing in no essential from those of M. 

 stjflobrauchiata, although the postsetal lobe is relatively broader (that 

 of I\' is abnormally bifid). 



Gills when fully developed pectinate, consisting of a short basal 

 stem bearing from four to six slender, tapering, cross-wrinkled, crowded 

 filaments not exceeding a length of one-fifth of the body width and 

 none of which reaches the median line. On the type they begin at 

 XXXIII on the left side with two filaments and at XXXIV on the 

 right side with two filaments; three filaments occur on each side of 

 XXX\'I; for the next fifteen segments four is the usual number of 

 filaments; between LV and LXV five is more frequent and thence to 

 LXXXV or LXXX^'I the maximum number of five or six or rarely 

 even seven occurs; behind this to the end of the piece all gills are quin- 

 Cjuefid. On the smaller specimen the gills begin farther forward and 

 are much simpler. From XX or XXI to XX\' they are simple, to 

 XLI V and LI bifid, thence to about XC mostly trifid, then again bifid 

 to CXXIV, and after that to the end of the piece they consist of a single 

 filament. 



Neuropodial acicula are simple, straight, tapered, blunt-pointed 

 spikes, black or nearly black to the tips. On anterior parai)odia there 

 are four to six, with the tips little or not at all exposed and arranged 

 in an oblique series between the two tufts of setse. Farther back 

 on middle segments there are only three much stouter acicula, the 

 nearly black tips of which are conspicuously exposed. The cotype 

 has only two of the spinelike acicula on middle parapodia and in 

 addition a pale, more slender, bifid and hooded ventral crochet (PI. 

 VII, fig. 16 j, which is missing in all of the jireparations made from the 

 type. 



Setffi generally more prolonged than those of M. stylohranchiata. 

 Post-supra-acicular tuft very dense on anterior segments, consisting 

 of numerous cur\(d, tapering alimbate sette (11. MI, fig. 13), the 

 dorsal ones longer, more slender and colorless, the ventral shorter, 

 stouter and yellow. On these segments the pectinate seta; are few 

 and difficult to see and bear numerous fine teeth (PI. MI, fig. 14a). 




1909. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 253 



Farther back the slender setse become fewer and the pectinate setir 

 of two forms, the one like those on anterior segments, the other (fig. 

 146) with few coarse teeth. Compound setae have the distal end of 

 the stems somewhat coarsely toothed and the api)endages very long, 

 slender and tapered, with scarcely visible marginal denticulation 

 (PI. VII, fig. 15); more dorsal appendages are fully twice as long as 

 the most ventral and all appendages become longer caudad. 



Jaws deep brown, moderately hard but generally less massive than 

 those of .1/. stylohranchiuta . Mandibles (PI. \'II, figs. 17, IS) of two 

 sides only slightly united, the carriers moderately divergent, long, 

 regularly tapered and rather rough; calcified end-plates small, irregu- 

 larly elliptical and coarsely toothed on the margin. Forceps jaws 

 (PI. VIII, figs. 19, 20) with carriers of incompletely united halves, 

 quite as wide as long, broad and truncated at both ends and with a 

 deep lateral notch about the middle of each side. The forceps have 

 broad, strongly ridged hinge bases and edentulous masticatory plates, 

 the distal part being comparatively slender and not strongly hooked. 

 The second pair of maxillae (II) are large and nearly symmetrical. 

 each bearing four or five large, stout, hooked teeth. The next plate 

 (III) is curN-ed and much larger on the right, on which it beare seven 

 or eight blunt conical teeth, than on the left side which lieai's six. 

 In addition the right side bears a single small jaw, consi.siting of two 

 thin plates meeting in a thickened ridge (I\ ). On the left side is a 

 similar but smaller lateral jaw (\') and an internal curved plate bearing 

 aixnit six marginal teeth {l\). 



Color anteriorly dull reddish purple marked witii luuuerous small 

 white spots, the cuticle with a greenish iridescence. Posteriorly tlu; 

 color is grayish with a pink tinge. 



Type locality San Diego; \\. C. St arks, roljeeioi-. 



ONUPHID^. 

 Diopatra oalifornica .M'K>r>'. 



iJlo/xiIra cilliornlni Moore, I'rof. .Vcad. .\al. Sci. Tiiila., I'JO}, pp. Isl Is7 



I'l. WW II, fig.s. 1-y. 



San Diego, six specimens, including the type and cotype, taken in 

 the tidal zone. Some of the gills are les-. (-lougated than in the type. 

 and on one the spiral arrangement continues to about X .\ .\ 1 \'. Win ii 

 perfect the tentacles taper to slender ti|)s. the median reaching t(; X\, 

 the inner pair to XN'III and the outer pair to XII. ( )n one C(junted 

 the last gill is on L\'I. 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



LUMBRINERIDiE. 



Lumbrineris zonata lolmson. 



Lunibricottcrcis zonata Jolinson, Proc. Hos. Soc. Nat. Hist., XXIX (1901\ 

 pp. 408, 409; PI. 9. ftps. 93-100. 



San Diego, several. Monterey ]iay, numerous specimens taken 

 at the following named points: "big tide pool," June 20, 1905; "point 

 above Third Beach," July 12, 1904, and July 6, 1905; "Moss Beach," 

 July 7, 1905; and "picnic tables, 17 -mile drive," Jmie 29, 1904. 



This species is generally more slender than the next, the largest 

 example reaching a diameter of only 3 mm. The cuticle frequently 

 exhibits a lieautiful greenish luster. Many of the specimens are 

 brown or purplish-brown with darker spots on the prostomiiun, 

 peristomium and on the sides of the setigerous segments; othei-s are 

 conspicuously annulated with dark brown bands and others neaily 

 uniform in color. Those carefully studied have the setae arranged in 

 some of the anterior parapodia ( V-XV) as follows : 3 or 4 large bilim- 

 bate doi-sal setae, 3 or 4 short hooded crochets in the middle and 3 

 small sigmoid bilimbate setae below. The large maxilla? commonly 

 bear four or five teeth. The caudal end tapers rapidly to a minute 

 tubular pygidium bearing a pair of closely approximated, very short, 

 thick, blunt cirri. 



Lambrineris erecta Moore 



LumhriconereiK erertn Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 1904, pp. 490- 

 492; PI. XXXVII, figs. 19-22, PI. XXXVIII, figs. 23-25. 



Unlike the last this species appears to be most al^undant at San 

 Diego, where about forty specimens were taken in the littoral zone. 

 At Monterey Bay several were taken at "big tide pool," June 20, 1905, 

 and "Third Beach Point," July 6, 1905. 



The largest measure nearly 7 mm. in diameter. The prostomium 

 may be broad and obtuse or pointed. The posterior parapodia Ijear 

 very long erect lobes which are the distinguishing feature of this 

 species. The large maxillae bear four teeth. Stalked infusoria are 

 frequently attached in the furrows between the parapodia. 

 Drilonereis nuda s>p. nov. (Plate VIII, Hks. 21-23). 



Excessively elongated and filamentous and of nearly uniform 

 diameter. The three complete specimens in the collection are respec- 

 tively 327, 445 (type) and 630 mm. long, with 480, 652 and 935 segments, 

 the maximum width being 1.3 mm. and the depth 1 mm. 



Prostomium strongly depressed, about one-third as deep as broad 

 and nearly as broad as long in the type, but more extended in one 

 cotype, Vjroadly rounded in front, slight median grooves extending 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255 



for most of the length of both dorsal and ventral faces. No eyes or 

 nuchal organs visible. 



Peristomium a simple ring, strictly terete and about one-half as 

 long as and slightly wider than the prostomium; its free ventral border 

 forming a furrowed lip boimding the large mouth. 



Somite II also achsetous, slightly smaller and more strongly convex 

 laterally, in the latter respect resembling the setigerous segments. 

 Body terete or with the venter slightly flattened, a little wider than 

 deep and \N'ith a more or less evident longitudinal parapodial furrow 

 along the sides. It is slightly enlarged in the middle and tapers gently 

 both ways, the posterior end l^eing more slender. Setigerous segments 

 simple or when contracted faintly triannulate ; anterior segments 

 one-third as long as wide, middle and posterior often as long as wide. 

 Pygidium a simple ring with vertical slit-like anus and no trace of cirri. 



Parapodia (PI. Mil. fig. 21) strictly lateral, minute, the posterior 

 ones slightly larger but never exceeding one-third the length of their 

 somites; all similar. Cf)nsisting of a small rounded setigerous tubercle 

 and a small post.setal lobe slighth' flattened and bent dorsad. 



SetJE few, varying from nine to eleven anteriorly and six or seven 

 posteriorly; all pale yellow and of one form (PI. \'III, fig. 22), some- 

 what geniculate, with the narrowly limbate end exhibiting a gentle 

 sigmoid curve. In the bundles they tend to separate into a dorsal 

 and a ventral group, the former including the somewhat larger number, 

 or into three groups, the doi-salmost of which is formed of one, two or 

 three setie having somewhat more ]irolonged tips than the others. 

 Anterior parapodia are supported by one or two stout acicula com- 

 pletely concealed within the body walls. At about XXV to X.XX 

 the aciculum (or acicula) reaches the surface and projects as a stout 

 spine (or 2) ventral to the fascicle of seta; (fig. 21), a condition that 

 continues to the caudal end. When two acicula are present one is 

 usually stouter and is accompanied l)V a minute delicate seta, pn»l)ably 

 the tip of an inidevelo{)e<l ordinary seta. 



Jaws when at rest and retracted in somites \'III to X. Although 

 the phar>'nx is lined throughout by a thick cuticle there is no trace of 

 mandibles in the two s{)ecimens dissected. Maxilhe (PI. \]JI. fig. 2',i) 

 black, dense and veiy hard; the forceps jaws (I) broad at base, stout, 

 very strongly hooked at the end and lacking basal masticatory teeth; 

 their paired filamentous carriers twice as long as the entire series of 

 jaws and distinct nearly to the anterior end, where they unite into a 

 small vertical plate bearing on its ventral margin an irregular hori- 

 zontal plat3 with ragged tendons for muscular attachment. Seconil 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



pair of maxilla* (II) thick, triangular, curved i)lati's hoaring a thin 

 internal accessory plate or wing, and about five marginal teeth on the 

 left and seven on the right side, the most anterior in each case being 

 strongly hooked and much the largest. The anterior pairs (III and IV) 

 are small plates with one very acute, erect, claw-like tootii. III, having 

 on the left side one and on the right side two additional small internal 

 cusps. On the left side there is also a minute \ bearing two small 

 hooked teeth. 



Color brown, each somite sometimes with two dark rings which 

 may be concentrated in deep spots above the parapodia. Cuticle 

 with a brilliant green iridescence. 



The specimens were taken at a big tide pool near Monterey Bay, 

 the type on July 6, 1905, and the cotypes on June 20, 1905. 



STAURONEREID^. 

 Stauronareis moniloceras sp. nov. (Plaic VIII, Jiijs. 24-29). 



Form moderately slender, stoutest in jiharyngeal region, thence 

 tapering regularly caudad; anterior end Ijroadly rounded, strongly 

 arched above, flat below becoming rather more depressed posteriori}'- 

 but the dorsum remaining rather strongly arched. Maximum length 

 recorded 69 mm., width in pharyngeal region 3 mm.; number of seg- 

 ments up to 110. 



Prostomium subgloboid, not annulated, broadly shield-shaped in 

 outline, slightly longer than broad, slightly contracted toward the 

 posterior border which bears a small, median, rounded lobe united 

 with the median peristomial lol)e. \'entrally a pair of conspicuous 

 palpal ridges separated by a deep cleft pass from the prostomium 

 into the mouth and terminate in pointed processes within the buccal 

 chamber. Dorsal tentacles arise from sides of prostomium just be- 

 hind the middle, are about one and one-half times as long as prosto- 

 mium, slightly curved and divided into about seven (6-8) short joints. 

 Very conspicuous palps arise from beneath the tentacles from enlarged 

 bases continuous with the palpal ridges and curve Ijoldly back round 

 the sides of the mouth ; they are about one and one-half times as long 

 as the tentacles, rather strongly flattened proximally and undivided 

 except for a few transverse furrows along the concave side. Eyes 

 two pairs, black, conspicuous, rounded, the posterior dorsal and close 

 to the posterior border, the anterior dorso-lateral and just anterior to 

 base of tentacles. 



Peristomium enlarged and swollen, three times as wide as prosto- 

 miimi, nearly twice as wide as long and about as long as three succeed- 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 257 



ing segments, unianniilar, strongly convex and elevated above and 

 divided anteriorh' into three lobes : a median united with the median 

 prostomial lobe and a prominent lateral pair which embraces the sides 

 of the prostomium as far forward as the tentacles. Xuchal organs 

 between these lobes and the prostomium, deep, quadrate, with fur- 

 rows passing from the angles. ^louth large with deeply furrowed 

 lips, cutting the peristomium nearly to its caudal border. 



Somite II a simple apodous ring one-third as long as the prosto- 

 mium. Succeeding segments podous, but otherwise similar to II. 

 Anteriorly they are one-eighth to one-sixth as long as wide, but become 

 one-fourth to one-third as wide in the middle and posterior region. 

 All perfectly simple with rounded, bulging sides and separated by 

 deep furrows; a projection below each parapodium, combined with the 

 flattened venter, produces an almost sole-like surface. 



Pygidium an oblique ring with anus directed obliquely dorsad 

 and surrounded by a low welt. Caudal cirri two paii-s, behind anus; 

 the more dorsal cylindrical, longer, about equaling diameter of 

 pygidium and formed of four or five articulatioas ; the more ventral 

 about one-half as long, clavate and formed of two articulatioas. 



Parapodia arise from a slight depression close to the ventral level 

 of the segments and project prominently directly laterad to a distance 

 of more than one-half width of body. They are imiramal, consisting 

 of a prominent neuropodium, compressed and somewhat expanded 

 distally where it is divided into a broad rounded postsetal lobe, a 

 shorter presetal lobe subdivided into two small secondary lol^es and 

 a small subsetal lobe. In different regions the form of these lobes 

 \aries somewhat and especially they become more pointed posteriorly, 

 Neurocirri arise from ba.sal half of venter of neuropodium, and as a 

 simple conical or subcylindrical process reach nearly as far a.>< its end. 

 Notocirri arise in contact with dorsal base of neuropodium and consist 

 of a long cylindrical cirrophore ciliated on its ventral side, proliably 

 representing the notopodium, as it contains a slender aciciiliim or 

 rarely two acicula, and reaching beyond the end of tiie neuropodium 

 except on anterior segments; at its end it l)ears a conical style about 

 one-third its length. The first parapodium (on III) differs from all of 

 the others in its very small size, greater simplicity (being entire dis- 

 tally), in its short, rounded neurocirrus and especially in the total 

 absence of a notocirras. 



Neuropodial aciculum always single, moderately stout, tapered, 

 straight, with a simple blunt point. Notopodial acicula, one, or 



17 




25S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



rarely two, very slender, almost fibre-like, tapered and reaching nearly 

 to tip of cirrophore. All acicula pale yellow. 



SetiP perfectly colorless and vitreous, of two kinds: sinii)le supra- 

 acicular and compound subacicular. The former (PI. \'1II, fig. 25) 

 number 15-20 on anterior parapodia, and become graduall}^ fewer and 

 stouter posteriorly luitil they are reduced to a single rather stout one. 

 They are gently curved, slightly tapered and faintly fringed along 

 the convex side, and terminate rather abruptly in a small blunt hook 

 which is embraced between a pair of guards difficult to observe on 

 the more slender setae, but sufficiently obvious on most of the stouter 

 ones. Compound seta) form an oblique spreading tuft of twenty to 

 thirty on anterior and about one-half as many or even fewer on pos- 

 terior segments. The stems (fig. 24) are gently curved, slightly 

 enlarged and obliquely truncate distally, and just perceptibly den- 

 ticulated on the convexity. Appendages subtriangular, their length 

 two or three times the distal width of the shaft, tapered to the promi- 

 nently hooked tip, below which is a conspicuous accessory tooth, the 

 whole protected on one side by a very delicate, minutely denticulated 

 guard. 



The jaws of only one specimen w'ere dissected. The smallest ones 

 are deep brown, the others black and opaque. Mandibles (fig. 26) are 

 heavy, with forcep-shaped bases and massive end-plates, the convex 

 margins and ends of which bear a series of blunt teeth and are much 

 broken with use; a thin chitinoid streamer containing two or three 

 black nodules is appended to the lateral side of the tip and the two 

 plates are lightly jointed medially. Maxillae form two long bands 

 extending through about eight segments and borne on the dorsal face 

 of a thick muscular pad. They are slightly united behind and each 

 coasists of three series of denticles of about thirty-five or forty each, 

 besides a posterior tract where the separate denticles of each series 

 have coalesced. All free denticles have more or less deeply cleft 

 V-shaped bases, and those at the anterior end of each series are most 

 complex, hooked and slender. The inner series consists of small 

 denticles (figs. 29a and b), the anterior members of which have a pair 

 of long, subequal, acute teeth often flanked by smaller ones; pa.ssing 

 caudad the lateral teeth disappear and then one of the large teeth, 

 leaving a series of one-toothed plates that soon unite into a serrated 

 band. Jaws of the outer and middle series are much larger; the outer 

 ones (fig. 27) with strongly curved stems and several acute teeth 

 arranged asymmetrically near the end; several of the most anterior 

 are verj' slender, strongly falcate and nearly simple, but they soon 




1909.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



become more complex and then more massive, with the lateral teeth 

 shorter and less distinct; finally they coalesce into a flexible band. 

 Those of the middle series (fig. 28) are generally similar to the outer, 

 but tend toward gi'eater symmetry and undergo similar changes 

 caudally. where they tend to unite with the jaws of the outer series 

 as well a.s with one another. Sometimes the outer series is partly 

 deficient. 



The type is a female filled with large eggs and of a generally pale 

 color tinged with rich rusty yellow anteriorly. 



It was taken at Monterey Bay on June 20, 1905, by Mr. E. C. Starks. 

 Additional specimens were collected at the point above Third Beach, 

 vicinity of Monterey Bay, on July 12, 1904. 



This species resembles Anisoceras vittata Grube and Oereted some- 

 what closely, and more complete information regarding the latter, 

 which was taken at Punta Arenas, Costa Rica, ma}' establish their 

 identity. It is. however, much larger than Oersted's specimens and 

 differs from Grube's description in several other respects. 



GLYCERID^. 

 Glycera nana Johnson. 



Gh/cern nana Johnson, Proc. Bos. Soc. Xat. Hist., XXIX (1901), p. 411, 

 PI. 10, figs. 103, 103a. 



Seven specimens, one of large size, were taken at San Diego. 



Glycera rugoaa Johnson. 



Ghjcerd nigosa Johnson, Proc. Bos. >o{'. Xat. Hist., XXIX flOOl). i)p. 109- 

 411; PI. 10, figs. 101, 102. 



San Diego, six specimens. Some of these have the l)ranohcd gills 

 extended on nearly every parapodium; on one the}' reach far beyond 

 the parapodial lobes; others have all or nearly all retracted. 



Hemipodia borealis Ji>hns<.n. 



Ilcmipodia horcali.s Johnson, Proc. Bos. Soc. Xat. IlLst., XXIX (1901), 

 pp. 411, 412; PI. 10, figs. 104, 104a. 



San Diego, four specimens; Monterey Bay. one at jjoiiit alxjvc Third 

 Boafh, July 12. 1904. 



An example 60 mm. long and 2.5 iiiin. in uiaxiiinmi width (cm lu.sive 

 of the parapodia) in thf* anterior fourth tapers reguhirly to tiie caudal 

 end, and ha.s 141 strongly biamiulate .^^egments whidi become relatively 

 longer caudad where the larger podous annulus may be again divide d. 



The "head" consists of a wider biusal two-fifths or more, con.si.^ting 

 of at least two segments bearing minute setigerous |)arapo(lia, the 

 peristomium and a portion of the prostomium. It includes the nioqth, 

 which is botuided laterally by a pair of large, low pads. The anterior 




260 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



part is a short, somewliat depressed, rapidh' tapered cone obscurely 

 dividetl into al:)out eiglit rings and bearing at the apex two pairs of 

 small but distinct, slender, divergent tentacles. 



The ]iarapodia agree with Johnson's figures; anteriorly they arc 

 small, but gradually increase in length until the posterior ones become 

 quite prominent and slender. 



ARICIID^. 

 Arioia johnsoni sp. nov. (Plate VIII. figs. 30-33). 



The solitary specimen upon which the following description is 

 based lacks perhaps about 100 caudal segments, the remaining 182 

 segments measuring 72 mm., and in the widest part of the anterior 

 region is 3 mm. wide and 1.8 mm. deep. 



Prostomium small, acutel}' conical, about twice as long as the basal 

 width, bearing at the apex a minute cirriform palpode, the base slightly 

 swollen and on the dorsal surface exhibiting an obscure transverse 

 row of minute specks, probably eye-spots. 



Peristomium a truncated cone nearly as long as the peristomium 

 and two to two and one-half times as broad ; on its venter is a quadrate, 

 cushion-like area, behind which the minute mouth lies between it and 

 somite II. 



Anterior region of body stronglj'- depressed, elhptical in section and 

 scarcely two-thirds as deep as wide, increasing in width rapidly to X, 

 then more gradually to the widest point at XVIII or XIX, following 

 which is a rather marked constriction extending over about ten seg- 

 ments (those bearing the pectinated ventral folds). The entire pos- 

 terior region is very strongly convex below, flattened above, and bears 

 the parapodial lobes, setse and gills in a dense brush-like arrangement. 

 Intereegmental furrows well marked ; segments of anterior region one- 

 third to one-fifth as long as broad, obscurely biannulate owing to a 

 slight welt and groove encircling them opposite the parapodia; seg- 

 ments following region of ventral pectinations simple and much shorter. 

 Pygidium unknown. 



The ventral half of the welts alluded to above is better developed 

 than the dorsal half and bears the pectinated folds which are incipient, 

 as two or three small slender papillae, on each side of the neural line 

 of XXI and XXII. On XXIII they reach from the neuropodium to 

 the middle line, consisting of five or six closely contiguous smaller 

 papillae at the dorsal end and two or three larger detached papillae at 

 the ventral end. On succeeding somites the number of papillae in- 

 creases to fifteen or sixteen on each side, all but the two or three ven- 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 261 



tralmost being in a close transverse series beginning immediately 

 beneath the neuropodia. On XXIX the papillse become fewer and 

 less crowded and the next three segments bear only two or three 

 detached papillae on each side immediately beneath the neuropodia, 

 the median area being bare. 



Parapodia of the anterior region are lateral and consist of low sloping 

 neuropodial platforms, bearing palisades of four to six rows of setae 

 backed by a low postsetal fold. In the neighborhood of X\'. where 

 they are largest, they are about twice as deep as long, but anteriorly 

 the depth diminishes until it scarcely exceeds the length, while behind 

 XV they gradually decrease in both length and depth and in the pec- 

 tinated region shift dorsad to assume the form characteristic of the 

 posterior region at about XXII. Notopodia of anterior region incon- 

 spicuous spreading tufts of sessile setae immediately doread of the 

 neuropodia. When fully changed, beginning at XXI\', the parapodia 

 of the posterior region are strictly dorsal, borne "with the gills on a 

 transverse fold. Each ramus consists of an elevated setigerous tubercle 

 bearing a small erect tuft of slender capillary* setae and, in the case 

 of the neuropodium. a postsetal lobe divided into a minute conical 

 ventral part connected V^v a membrane to the side of the segment, 

 and a larger somewhat foliaceous dorsal part, while the postsetal lobe 

 of the notopodium is slightly foliaceous, sublanceolate and abruptly 

 l')ent at the ba.'^e where it embraces the setae tuft. The only change 

 caudad is an increasing prominence for a time of the parapodia and a 

 progressive increase in length and slenderness of the notopodial post- 

 setal loVjes. 



Gills begin on XX as a pair of minute papillae situated on the dui"sum 

 and well separated from the notopodia. They increase in length 

 gradually and are fully developed only on segments following the 

 pectinated region, where they increa.se correspondingly to the growth 

 of the parapodia, but alway rise above the notopodial k)bes as erect, 

 slightly flattened, lanceolate and ciliated processes close to tho median 

 line and united with the oppasite member of the pair by a low 

 niembrane. 



No col(»r remaining. Proboscis unknown. 



Xotop((dial seta; of anterior region in spreading tufts, rather short, 

 tapered, flexible, cai)illar>', with conspicuous subannular cameration 

 and along one side a small obli(|ue ojH-ning into each chamber (PI. \'1II, 

 fig. .'32). In the posterior region they are straighter, mudi longer, 

 more slender and erect, and associated with the capillary seta* in the 

 ventral part of middle and pasterior bundles are a few very delicate 




262 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



bifurcate set:o of jieculiar f(M'in (fiff. 33). They have the slender f?tem 

 with half-round collar flanges which appear in profile as marginal 

 serrations; the end of each prong is expanded and slightly bilobed and 

 provided along the inner side with long oblique hairs. Anterior neuro- 

 podials form tlense palisades of four to six serias of chiefly short, bhmt, 

 somewhat davate, yellow spines, bent near the end and marked with 

 transvei'se serrullie at the convexity and with the tips enclosed in a 

 sheath (fig. 30). Those of the most caudal series of each palisade arc 

 more slender and bear a slender, tapered, smooth tip ; and at the ven- 

 tral liorder of each is a small tuft of setae like the notopodials but 

 smaller. Xeuropodial fascicles of the posterior region are small, com- 

 pact, erect and consist of a few very slender, straight setae (fig. 31) with 

 minute appressed teeth along one side. Setae all colorless. 



This species was taken at Moss Beach, near Monterey, Cal., on 

 July 7. 1905. It is probabl}- the species mentioned as occurring 

 commonly on the California coast by Dr. H. P. Johnson, our leading 

 authority on the Polj'chaeta of that region, to whom it is a pleasure 

 to dedicate it. The type is a female filled with large eggs. 

 Naineris robusta sp. nov. (Plate VIII, figs. 34-37). 



Form generally similar to N. longa but decidedly stouter, tapered 

 both ways from the middle, the anterior end more depressed and 

 broadly rounded into the prostomium, the posterior region subterete, 

 strongly convex below, flattened above. The largest specimen is 

 170 mm. long and has a maximum diameter in the middle of the body 

 of 4 mm. ; from 26 to 30 segments constitute the anterior region and 

 as many as 360 the posterior region. 



Prostomium broad, flat, somewhat shovel-shaped, broadly rounded 

 and with a thin margin anteriorly; posteriorly somewhat narrower 

 and retracted within the peristomium ; ventrally it is continued by 

 a somewhat swollen rugous area to the mouth and is united to the 

 anterior peristomial ring. No eyes; deep lateral recesses at the pro- 

 peristomial furrow represent the nuchal organs. 



Peristomium a somewhat indistinct naked ring about equaUng II, 

 simple above, below split into two rings between the rugous folds 

 of which the mouth lies. 



Segments of anterior region about eight times as wide as long, con- 

 vex below, slightly concave above and about half as deep as wide. 

 Passing into the posterior region the segments become shorter (about 

 12 times as wide as long), much deeper, very convex below and nearly 

 flat above. Xo sharp boundary exists between the two regions, but 

 estimated by the segment upon which conspicuous neuropodial setae 

 cease twenty-eight may be counted in the anterior region. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 263 



Pygidiiim a short tube "with large terminal anus surrounded by a 

 membrane bearinp; a circle of minute papillse and a small but distinct 

 pair of ventral cirri knobbed at the ends. 



Parapodia begin on II. WTien fully developed at about X the 

 neuropodia consist of low fleshy projections at the extreme dorsal level 

 of the sides: they bear a scarcely evident presetal lobe and a more 

 prominent thick postsetal lobe which rises above into a free process 

 especially evident on the more restricted neuropodia of anterior and 

 posterior segments. Set® are of a deep brown color and form a con- 

 spicuous palisade of five or sometimes six vertical series arranged 

 in an elliptical area three times as deep (dorso-ventrally) as long 

 (antero-posteriorly) on middle segments, but less deep anteriorly 

 and posteriorly. In the posterior region neuropodia become reduced 

 to small pointed processes situated ventro-laterad of the notopodia, 

 with which they are united by an integumental fold; they bear a tuft 

 of inconspicuous setse. Notopodia of anterior region dorsal, separated 

 from the neuropodia by a short interval and consisting of a short setig- 

 erous tubercle and a small but prominent postsetal lobe thickened 

 along the lateral border and rising mesially into a pointed process; 

 they bear .^mall spreading tufts of setae of various lengths, the longest 

 directed mesially. Except that they become more elevated, the post- 

 setal lobes erect and sublanceolate in form and the seta3 reduced to 

 small vertical fascicles, the notopodia are little changed in the posterior 

 region. 



Branchisp appear at from VII to X as slender and incoaspicuous i)r()- 

 cesses as long as the segment and arising from the dorsum just mediad 

 of the notopodia. No marked change is undergone until, passing 

 into the posterior region at about XXIX, they abruptly become much 

 longer, flattened and lanceolate, densely ciliated on both borders and 

 united to the not()jK)dia by a membranous fold. They completely 

 fill the dorsal field jjetween the notopodia and generally extend mediad 

 until they touch and bend sharply dorsad. They continue to the 

 posterif)r end. 



NO clear distinction between acirula and seta? exists, but some of 

 the latter reach deeply into the body walls and serve for muscular 

 attachment. On typical anterior neuropodia the stout, brown seta* 

 form a conspicuous palisade of five (or rarely six) vertical rows which 

 bend l)ackward and succ(>ssively overlap. Those of the posterior 

 series (IM. VIII, fig. 34) are stouter than the others, with short, blunt 

 roughened tips; the others (fig. 35) are abruptly contracted imfnc- 

 diatelv beyond the surface of the lH)dy and taper into long, acute tips 




264 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



finely denticulated ahnio; one margin. There is also a small \'entral 

 group, arranged in a few obli(|uely longitudinal rows, of slender 

 capillary setie denticulated and camerated like the notopodials. An- 

 teriorly these capillary seta3 increase in number, the tips of the stouter 

 setfe lengthen and the rows become shorter, although remaining five. 

 Posteriorly the'length of the rows again decreases and at aljout XXX 

 their number is abruptly reduced from five to three and the stout setae 

 quickly disajipear, leaving only the ventral capillary setic. These 

 are colorless and exactly like the notopodials of the same region, except 

 that they are somewhat shorter and the fascicles more spreading. 

 They undergo little change throughout the posterior region, but on 

 middle and posterior segments six or eight small blunt spines appear 

 among their bases and probably represent the projecting ends of 

 acicula. Except that the tufts are larger and more spreading in the 

 anterior and more erect in the posterior region the capillary notopodial 

 setae do not differ. They are colorless, slender with much attenuated 

 tips, slightly curved and the distal half asymmetrically camerated 

 and finely denticulated along the convexity (fig. 36). A very small 

 number of bifurcate setae (fig. 37) are associated with the capillary 

 setje in the ventral part of the Ijundle, but they are difficult to see and 

 appear to be absent from the anterior and many segments of the 

 posterior region. 



The protruded proboscis has the form of a rosette with ruffled 

 margins, the deepest folds dividing it into four lobes, each of which is 

 again subdivided into two, three or four much folded lobules. 



Color pale brown with neural and infrapodal series of spots, or 

 more extensivel}'' pigmented with dark brown. 



The type and two other examples, the former being an egg-bearing 

 female, were taken between tides at San Diego, and a single specimen 

 at Monterey Bay on June 20, 1905. 

 Naineris longa sp. nov. (Plate VIII, figs. 38-42). 



Form moderately slender; the anterior region slightly wider and 

 obscurely separated from the posterior by a slight constriction, rather 

 strongly depressed, flattened above; posterior region gently tapered 

 caudad, strongly convex below, flat above. T.ength up to 140 mm., 

 of which the anterior region is 16 mm.; width and depth at caudal 

 end of anterior region respectively 3 mm. and 2.5 mm. Number of 

 segments of full-grown worms 290 to 310, of which 22 to 26 belong to 

 the anterior region, 



Prostomium broad, flat, about twice as wide as long; anterior border 

 gently convex and slightly upturned; ventral surface extended some- 




1909.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



what backwards to the mouth as a slightly rugous area ; a few spots of 

 pigment but no distinct eyes on the dorsum. On each side at the 

 junction of prostomium and peristomium is a deep nuchal pit. 



Peristomium a distinct achsetous ring, longer than either prosto- 

 mium or somite II, simple and entire dorsalh', but ventrally divided 

 nearly or quite to its posterior border by the large subtriangular mouth, 

 a small median process of II projecting slightly into the incision. 



Two regioas of the body not sharply defined, distinguished chiefly 

 by differences in character of the notopodia and degree of develop- 

 ment of the gills. Segments of anterior region depressed, convex 

 below and flat above, distinct and sharply defined by well-marked 

 but not especially deep furrows, uniannular marked by a slight trans- 

 verse ridge ventrally and by a pair of faint impressed paramedian 

 longitudinal lines dorsally. Segments of posterior region short, at 

 first much crowded but farther back much less so, similar to those of 

 anterior region, but lacking the dorsal impressed lines and much more 

 strongly convex below. Caudal end depressed and broadly rounded, 

 ending in a .short tubular pygidium with large anus directed slightl}' 

 upward and surrounded Ijy a circle of papilhr and a pair of minute 

 ventral cirri. 



Parapodia biramous, beginning on II and situated at a high level. 

 Xeuropodia of anterior segments small, rather fleshy, ellii^tical sloj^ing 

 prominences aljout as deep doi-so-ventrally as long anteroposteriorly, 

 and produced into small rounded postsetal lobes which on more pos- 

 terior segments tend to be prolonged dorsad. They are largest on 

 the middle segments of the region and the three rows of stout seta* 

 that they bear are here stoutest. Notopodia separated from neuro- 

 podia by a deep groove and consisting of small tubercles bearing 

 a slender tuft of capillary seta*, behind and below which is a subconical, 

 erect postsetal lobe mo.st prominent on anterior somites, and when 

 best developed bearing a convex wing on the ventral side of its l)ase. 

 On posterior segments of this region the neuropodia become snuiller 

 and shifted doi-sad and the rami crowded. On the posterior region 

 both rami are borne on the dorsum and so closely apj)roxinuitrd that 

 they seem almost to have a common somewhat elevated ba.'^e. Hoth 

 rami are foliaceous, the neuropodium small and somewhat manunilli- 

 form bearing its seta* in a fan-shaped fa.scicle; the nolopodiuni con- 

 sisting of an erect, sub-lanceolate postijctal lobe and bearing a small 

 compact tuft of seta-. 



(tills bogin on frf)m X to XII as slender, erect, conical proce.'^sef* on 

 the doi-sum immediately above the notopodia. They undergo little 




266 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



chanjre to the last two or three scjrnients of tlie anterior region, where 

 they rather abruptly become longer and tliioker. On anterior seg- 

 ments of the second region they extend transversely across the dorsum 

 from the notopodia and meet medially, but though continuing to the 

 posterior end they become gradually smaller. Each includes a single 

 vascular loop, and is heavily ciliated along the medial margin. 



Notopodial capillaiy seta? (PI. VIII, fig. 40) appear to be similar 

 throughout — soft, slender, tapered, regularly and closely jjrovided with 

 obscure, incomplete sheaths, corresponding to slight internal camera- 

 tion. The fascicles are slightly more spreading anteriorly, more com- 

 pact and erect posteriorly. At the base of the notopotlials on the 

 ventral side of the tuft are three or four small and deUcate bifurcate 

 setre (fig. 42) with serrated stems and slender tapered prongs bearing 

 a series of long oblique hairs. Neuropodials of the posterior region 

 are mostly similar to the notopodials, but the sculptured region is 

 shorter, and in addition there is a ventral series of about six small 

 smooth blunt spines (fig. 41). Anterior neuropodials are arranged in 

 three nearly vertical series, the first extending most ventral. All are 

 stout, but those of the anterior two rows (fig. 39) bear slender terminal 

 portions similar in structure to the notopodial setae but much more 

 abruptly tapered; those of the posterior series are stout, curved, 

 smooth, clavate spines (fig. 38). Ventral to the palisade is a cres- 

 centic series of smaller capillary seta?. All of these setse are stoutest 

 in the middle and posterior parapodia of the anterior region, but on 

 the last few transition segments rapidly become more slender and the 

 series short and restricted from the ventral end. Or it may be said 

 that the three series of stout spinous setse gradually disappear, finally 

 leaving only the ventral group of slender seta3 with a few small spines. 



Proboscis partially protruded on several specimens. It appears to 

 consist of four principal divisions, each again bilobate and bearing 

 from four to ten slender elongated processes with a continuous hem- 

 Uke raised border, leaving a longitudinal groove on each. The lobes 

 are often irregular and unequal and some specimens appear to have 

 the proboscis divided into from five to eight fimbriated lobes. 



Color in alcohol dull creamy yellow, more or less marked with brown 

 pigment which is most constant as three series of ventral spots, a 

 subneural and paired infra-podal. Others have the gills or parapodia 

 pigmented and others the dorsum marked with suffused spots or well- 

 defined annulations, while 'extreme forms may be deep chocolate 

 brown. 



This species appears to be quite plentiful between tides in the 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 267 



vicinity of Monterey Bay and was taken at Third Beach Point (which 

 is the type locality) on July 6, and at "big tide pool" on June 20. 

 A single example also occurs in the Starks collection from San Diego, 

 also taken between tides. 



CIRRATULID^. 



Cirratulus spirabranchus Moore. 



Cirratuluft spirabranchva Moore, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 19U4, pp. 

 492, 493; PI. XXXVIII, figs. 26 and 27. 



Cirratalns luznriosas Moore. 



Cirratulus luxuriosus Moore, Id., pp. 493, 494; PI. XXXVIII. figs. 28-31. 

 Both of these species are quite plentiful between tides on the beach 

 at San Die<ro. 



Tharyx multifilis sp. nov. (Plate IX, fig. 43). 



The type (a male) is 58 mm. long and has a maximum diameter at 

 the end oi the anterior third of 2.1 mm. The segments number 240. 

 A female is slightly smaller and more slender. 



Prostomium (fig. 43) a short shghtly depressed cone with a rather deep 

 ventral longitudinal groove and just anterior to it a transverse one. 

 No eyes visible, though there is a shght discoloration near the posterior 

 border. A pair of swellings behind and above mouth are the nuchal 

 organs, l)Ut there is no trace of appendages. 



Peristomium — probably representing three coalesced segments — 

 a large, swollen, apodoas region about twice as wide and long as the 

 prostomium and marked with one or two partial furrows. Mouth 

 large, with smooth lips. 



Remaining segments setigerous, the anterior region about six 

 niilHmeters long, consisting of about sixty excessively short segments, 

 twelve to twenty times as wide as long, depressed and somewhat 

 widened. Behind this the body is nearly terete, slightly flattened 

 below and C(»mposed of longer, feebly separated segments about six 

 to eight times as long as wide. Segments all perfectly simple and 

 uniannular. The body increase.s in diameter through the anterior 

 third and then tapci-s gradually to the caudal end. termiiuited by a 

 minute pygidiiun with its central anus surrounded by a welt-like rim. 

 A narrow neural groove extends for the entire length and forks at the 

 peristoiniinu to ombrace the mouth. 



i'ara|)odia consisting of minute setigerous notopodial !ui<l ncunjjKidial 

 tubercles, the latter situated clase to the ventral surface at the foot of 

 the strongly arched doi-sum. Immediately above the fiivt arisc*^ the 

 pair of large davate tentacular cirri, which have a diameter nearly 




268 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



equal to the length of the prostoniiuni and a length of nearly one- 

 third the body, grooved and crenulated for the entire length, narrow 

 at the base and becoming gradually thicker toward the distal end. 

 One specimen bears a pair of minute branchia; on this segment; on 

 the other they begin on the following segments. The branchiie are 

 verj' delicate extensile vascular filaments, which in all cases arise in 

 actual contact with the dorsal side of the notopodium. In perfect 

 specimens they probably occur on every segment except about twenty 

 at the caudal end, but in both of the two here described they are small 

 or absent on many of the middle ones. In the anterior depressed 

 region they are more firmly attached and longer than elsewhere, 

 occur regularly on every segment and form a crowded tangled mass. 



Setffi perfectly simple, colorless, smooth, slender capillaries, forming 

 small, spreading, fan-shaped notopodial and neuropodial tufts; except 

 that the notopodials are longer than the neuropodials and the anterior 

 longer than the posterior they are all exactly alike, the longest equaling 

 one-half the body diameter. 



Color of male pale brownish, of female deep slate color. 



Since the type of the genus Heterocirrus has been shown to be an 

 epitokous phase of Dodecaccria, the next available name for such 

 forms as Heterocirris multibranchis and the present species is Tharyx 

 Webster and Benedict. 



Dodecaceria paoiflca (Fewkcs) (Plate IX, fig. 44). 



Sahella Parifica Fewkes, Bull. Essex Inst., XXI (1889), pp. 132, 133; 

 PI. VII, figs. 1, 2. 



More than a score of well-preserved examples of this species ]:)ermit 

 of the preparation of a description more complete than the original. 



Usual length 30 to 40 mm., but sometimes extended to nearly twice 

 that length; maximum diameter about 1 mm.; number of segments 

 from 90 to 110. 



Body generally terete, usually slightly enlarged in the middle and 

 tapered a little each way, but often depressed and distinctly widened 

 at the posterior end; irregular enlargements and constrictions often 

 present at one. or two other points. When depressed the venter is 

 flat, the dorsum convex. 



Prostomium and peristomium completely coalesced, together form- 

 ing a subcorneal head about one and one-half times as long as wide, 

 entirely without definite appendages, but with a pair of small dorsal 

 spots which probably represent the nuchal organs. The anterior 

 half, representing the prostomium, is a somewhat scoop-like, broadly 

 rounded lip deeply excavated below and overhanging the mouth. 




1909.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 269 



from the sides of which project a pair of small lobes probably repre- 

 senting palpi; these lobes and the ventral surface of the lip are pale, 

 in sharp contrast to the nearly black surface of the remainder of the 

 head. The posterior or peristomial half is a simple naked ring. 



Several of the immediately succeeding metastomial segments are 

 very short, but those following become gradually longer until they 

 are one-fourth or one-third as long as wide, but caudally they again 

 become very short and crowded and end in a simple pygidium with 

 rather large central anus. 



The first metastomial segment (II) l^eai-s a dorsal pair of simple 

 terete branchial filaments or notocirri which in extension are smooth 

 and three or four times as long as the head and in contraction trans- 

 versely wrinkled and much shorter; ventral to these is a pair of usually 

 shorter and thicker neurocirri or prehensile tentacles which are grooved 

 along the ventral face and transversely wrinkled. The latter vary 

 much in length in different specimens, being in some less than the 

 diameter of the body, in others more than three times the diameter. 

 Notocirral branchiae also occur on from seven to ten next succeeding 

 segments (III to IX or XII). Of these the first three are commonly 

 larger than that on II, and because of the doi-sal position of the latter 

 and the extreme shortness of the segments lie at successively lower 

 levels in a nearly vertical series; the fifth and succeeding paire arise 

 immediately dorsal to the notopodial settc and on the same level as 

 the fourth pair. Specimens from the vicinity of Monterey Bay have 

 the fifth and rarely the sixth pair nearly a.s long as the more anterior, 

 but on those from San Diego they are always much shorter hke the 

 remaining more caudal pairs, the last of which are usually mere 

 nulimonts. 



I'arapo(ha very small, lateral notf)po(lial and ventro-lateral neuro- 

 podial tubercles separated by a small interval . Small tufts of notopodial 

 and ncuropodial noiiv begin on II. On from eight to eleven segments 

 they are all slender, finely serrate setje, mirst numerous and h^igest in 

 the notopodia, in which they may be as long as their segment or longer. 

 At from IX to XII two stout yellow spines, bifid and hooked at the 

 end, a[)pear in the neuropoditnn and a few segments caudad similar 

 ones in the notopodium. They may be accompanied by and alternate 

 with two or three minute capillary setir, but by about XX and all 

 through the middle region spines alone are |)resent, from two to four 

 occurring in each fascicle and the neuropodial (IM. IX. fig. 44) being 

 decidedly stouter with the terminal prong .slightly hooked, flatthned 

 and excavated. Xotopodials straighter, less hooked and more flat- 




270 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



teiied distally. In the posterior fourth the spines of both fascicles 

 become less stout, straighter and associated with capillary seta> which 

 gratlually increase in length and finally displace the spines altogether. 



In the preserved state these worms are perfectl}^ ojxiquo antl of a 

 deep sooty black or sometimes a bluish black, especially deep and 

 uniform in the San Diego examples, but some of them Ijecome more 

 or less brown in the middle or anterior regions, ^'ent^al face of 

 prostomium, groove of prehensile neurocirri and bases of branchial 

 notocirri pale. 



About fifteen examples were taken at Third Beach Point, vicinity 

 of Monterey Bay, on July 6, 1905, and about thirty at San Diego. 

 Most of these are mature and contain nearly ripe ova or sperm balls. 



TEREBELLIDiE. 

 Terebella oalifomica Moore. 



Terehella {Schmardanella) californica Moore, Proc. Acad. Xat. ^^(•i. Phila., 

 1904, pp. 496-498; PI. XXXVIII, figs. 36, 37. 



This species is quite plentiful at San Diego, living in Ijurrows in the 

 beach at low water. Including the lot upon which the original descrip- 

 tion was based, about thirty specimens occur in the collection. Several 

 are packed full of eggs and some of them are much longer than the 

 type, reaching 130 mm. The number of setigerous segments varies 

 from 25 to 28. 



Amphitrite robusta Johnson. 



Amphitrite robusta Johnson, Proc. Bos. Soc. Xat. Hist., XXIX (1901), pp. 

 425, 426; Pi. 16, figs. 164-168. 



A single example taken at San Diego is a female stuffed with eggs. 

 It is about 105 mm. long, the first eleven thoracic segments being 

 11 mm. long and equal to the greatest width of the thorax. 



Lanice heterobranchia Johnson. 



Lanice heterobranchia Johnson, Proc. Bos. Soc. Xat. Hist. XXIX (1901), 

 pp. 427; PI. 17, figs. 172-174. 



San Diego. A single small macerated Lanice probal^ly represents 

 this species, with the description of which it is in accord, except that 

 the terminal twigs of the branchiae are fewer. 



Pista elongata sp. nov. (Plate IX, figs. 45-47). 



Form rather slender and elongated, clavate, the somewhat thickened 

 thorax followed by a coastriction in the anterior abdominal region; 

 posteriorly gently tapered to the pygidium. Length lGO-192 mm., 

 of which the thorax is 25-28 mm. ; diameter of thorax 5 mm. Number 

 of segments 176-240, 20 belonging to the thorax. 



Prostomium a prominent, stiff, broad and simply arched uj^per lip, 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 271 



behind which is the broad, tumid crescentic tentacular ridge, bearing 

 the very numerous tentacles in about eight transveree rows. 



Peristomium very short and obscure dorsally; ventrally prolonged 

 into a prominent scoop-like fold bearing a tumid lower lip and 

 produced laterally into a pair of rather prominent, broadly rounded 

 wings. Next three segments short, somewhat depressed, and branch- 

 iferous. A pair of prominent, rounded, lateral wings arise at a level 

 somewhat more dorsal than those on the peristomium and conceal 

 the greater part of the sides of II. Remaining thoracic somites are 

 much longer and subtercte, 3 or 4 annulate, with prominent, glandular 

 parapodial areas and the dorsal and ventral fields much transversely 

 wrinkled. Ventral gland plates on II to XIII inclusive, but all rather 

 inconspicuous and the first especially small. Abdominal segments 

 verj' numerous, flattened and muscular below, arched and thin-walled 

 above. Pygidium annular with a brownish thickened rim bearing 

 a circle of about sixteen small, equal papillse surrounding the large 

 anus. 



Gills three pairs, on II, III and IV; except in one case all present 

 and well developed, symmetrical, usually decrea.sing in size from Ijefore 

 caudad, those of the middle pair arising at a slightly lower level than 

 the others. Owing to their great contractility they differ much 

 in form and appearance, but are strictly aborescent and more or less 

 open according to the degree of contraction. When fully extended 

 the stem is a smooth, tapering column having a length equaling or 

 exceeding the thoracic diameter and beaiing at the sunmiit four or 

 five main Ijranches, each of which again divides about six times and 

 terminates in slender tapered filaments. The plan of division is 

 dichotomous but irregularities are numerous, and although the trunk 

 cannot be traced through the crown, one branch of a pair is usually 

 larger than the other and frequently a single long tapering filament 

 orfurs (>i)pf)site the point of origin of a branch of any order. When 

 contracted the Ijranches ajipear short and cylindrical, with the fila- 

 ments in crowded terminal tufts. The latter are readily detached and 

 regenerated. 



SotigcroMS tubercles begin on I\' and eontinue for seventeen seg- 

 ments or to X.\. They are large, prominent, well separated from 

 the tori, somewhat flattened and bear broad fascicles of seta*. The 

 first pair (on I\') are smaller, and small papilliform cirri occur behind 

 the setigerous tubercles of \T to X inclusive. I'ncinigerous tori 

 well marked an<l regular, retractile ridges separate<i from the setigbr- 

 ous tuljerdes by an interval exceeding the diameter of the latter. 




272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



The fii'st six (\'-X) with uiicini in one row and haviiiji; n Icuf^th of 

 about twice the segment bearing them, the othei's with uncini in two 

 interlocking series and at first abruptly much longer, but the caudal 

 three ov four again shorter and shifting on to the venter behind the 

 ventral plates. Abdominal tori small but prominent, latero- ventral 

 lappets bearing a single series of uncini sunken below a raised border 

 and terminating doreally in a short cirrus-like projection. 



Setae pale yellow, numerous, arranged in two ranks in broad fas- 

 cicles, those of one rank shorter, but all rather long, tapered, acute, 

 bilimbate with rather broad but not extensive margins and entire, 

 unf ringed tips. 



Uncini deep yellow on thorax, paler on abdomen. On first six 

 thoracic and all abdominal tori in a single series pointing forward, on 

 XI to XX in double interlocking series. About 40 on V to VII, 50 on 

 VIII-X. 80-85 on XI to XV and 50-60 on XVI to XX. Anterior 

 abdominal tori bear about 70 uncini. On somites V, ^T and VII they 

 are large, with long tapered handle-like bases (PI. IX, fig. 45) and a 

 prominent anterior projection for muscular attachment; the beak is 

 long and nearly straight, the crest composed of a single transveree 

 series of large teeth and the guard large. These characters are most 

 pronounced on V and gradually decline on VI and VII. On VIII 

 to X the uncini are transitional to the typical form (PI. IX, fig. 46), 

 which on the posterior thoracic somites has the manubrium much 

 reduced and chiefly replaced by a thin, translucent, ligamentous 

 expansion, the base short and triangular, the beak strongly hooked, 

 short and stout and the crest more elevated and composed of about 

 three transverse series of teeth of diminishing size. Abdominal 

 uncini (PL IX, fig. 47) still smaller with reduced convex bodies, acute, 

 strongly hooked beak, high crest composed of numerous teeth and 

 long filamentous anterior and posterior ligaments. 



Color in alcohol uniform dark brown. 



This species is founded on four specimens taken between tides at 

 San Diego by E. C. Starks. It differs from the Alaskan species pro- 

 visionally referred to P. fasciata in the much greater length and more 

 numerous abdominal segments, in the smaller lateral wings, the 

 absence of a post-branchial fold and especially in the form of the 

 branchiae. It is closely related to the Japanese species P. maculata 

 Marenzeller which has a similarly elongated body, three pairs of simi- 

 larly branched gills and uncini of similar form. The principal dis- 

 tinctions are that the latter has larger and more numerous ventral 

 plates and no distinct second pair of lateral wings. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PEQLADELPHIA. 273 



Pista (Scionopsis) alata sp. uov. (Plate IX, figs. -iJi-Sl). 



Form moderately stout, widest and somewhat depressed anteriorly, 

 tapered regularly to caudal end. Length of type 63 mm., maximum 

 width at X 9 mm. Number of segments 94, in addition to a few 

 scarcely differentiated ones at the caudal end. 



Prostomium rather small but prominent, thickened, arched, its 

 sides continued ventrad to nearly enclose the mouth, below which 

 they end in a pair of short, tliick lobes each bounded laterally In- a 

 shght indentation. Tentaculiferous ridge low and tliick, bearing 

 numerous tentacles arranged in a single transverse row in the medial 

 and in two transvei-se rows in the lateral part. Tentacles numerous, 

 rather short and thick, very slightly attached by a contracted base 

 and deeply grooved or folded for most of their length. !Many of the 

 dorealmost ones are short and imperfectly developed. 



Peristomium and two or three immediately follo^Ning segments 

 short, contracted and terete. Peristomium produced into a promi- 

 nent ventral fold with a deep median emargination, on each side of 

 which it spreads laterally as a great flaring wing reacliing dorsally to 

 the level of the setigerous tubercles. Somites II and III are distinct 

 dorsally and ventrally but confounded laterally. The anterior margin 

 of the former is produced on the ventral surface as a shght fold. 

 Beginning at the sides of the ventral plate of III is a pair of conspicuous 

 wings which extend obliquely up the sides of III and the anterior 

 margin of IV and which are united across the dorsum of the latter by a 

 transverse fold bearing a prominent median forward projection. 



Posterior to the branchial region the thoracic segments develop 

 prominent glandular thickenings along the parapodial field, as a result 

 of which they are wider than deep. Behind X the thoracic region 

 tapers into the abdomen, the traasition into which is somewhat abrupt. 

 Annulation of the somites is obscure, only the posterior thoracic and 

 anterior abdominal showing faint indications of subdivisions. There 

 are fourteen well-marked ventral plates, the first on III, the la.st on 

 XVI, behind which more oUscure wrinkled and subdivided areas 

 continue to the end of the thorax. The first five are sliort, about 

 four or five times as wide as long. The others are very smooth, 

 apparently very va.scular and proljably deep red in life, the relative 

 width gradually increasing from ecjuality to tiic length to double it, 

 the greatest width in all cases being anterior, so that the entire series 

 appeal's serrated laterally. Jiy the sides of each is a pair of rough 

 glandular areas which posterior to XVI become united with the gland- 

 ular ventral areas, giving them an irregular polygonal outline and 

 18 




274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [A])lil, 



roughened surface. Slight traces of siniiUir structures continue on 

 to a few anterior abdominal segments. Middle and posterior abdomi- 

 nal segments are marked about the middle in the parapodial zone l)y a 

 distinct, elevated, glandular ring, the remainder of the body wall being 

 relatively thin and translucent. Pvgidium slightly expanded and 

 bent doi-sad. the large anus surrounded l)y a raised border. 



Branchite two paire, on somites II and III, when contracted par- 

 tially protected by the lateral wings and dorsal fold. As in Scio)iopsis 

 polmota \'errill they are very unequally, asymmetrically and irregu- 

 larly developed. Both specimens have all four present. On the type 

 the right anterior is much the largest and situated exactly in the median 

 line, the left anterior is very small; those of the posterior jiair are 

 S3'mmetrical in position and close to the median line, and intermediate 

 in size between those of the anterior pair, that of the left side being 

 sUghtly larger. The cotype has the anterior left largest, then the 

 posterior right, the posterior left and the anterior right quite small. 

 The well-developed branchiae consist of a rather tall, column-like 

 trunk which at once divides into several (3 to 5) main limbs which 

 diverge and spread more or less horizontally. Each main limb consists 

 of a tapering, strongly zigzag axis which may be traced to the tip and 

 gives rise at each bend to similar lateral branches which also spread 

 horizontally and divide into branches of the third order. Most of the 

 latter bear two to six slender filaments which occasionally bifurcate 

 or divide even farther and are usually (but not always) confined to 

 one side of the branch. Thus is produced a very beautiful and charac- 

 teristic plume-like structure more or less complexly branched according 

 to the size of the gill and having nearly the form of a branch of certain 

 species of the plant Selaginella. The main divisions of the large gill of 

 the type specimen spread symmetrically and are so large that the 

 second pair of gills is completely concealed beneath their posterior 

 limbs, although these are much shorter than the anterior limbs. 



Setigerous tubercles occur on somites IV to XX inclusive, separated 

 from the uncinigerous tori by a slight interval and nearly in line with 

 them. They are nearly cylindrical but somewhat compressed antero- 

 posteriorly. Thoracic uncinigerous tori begin on V and are raised on 

 thickened glandular areas. The first two are longer than the others 

 which are of nearly uniform length. Nephridial papillae exist above 

 those of VII to XVI at least. Abdominal tori are small but prominent 

 and decrease in vertical extent caudad. All are distinctly bilobate, 

 ha\dng the angles, especially the dorsal angle, produced, bent forward 

 and free from uncini. 




1909.] XATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 275 



Setae in prominent flattened fascicles, arranged in two series of 

 about fourteen to sixteen each, those of the anterior row about one- 

 half as long as those of the other. Rather stout (PI. IX, fig. 48), pale 

 yellow, slightly curved and tapered to an acute tip, bilimbate with 

 well-marked, lanceolate, entire but striated blades rather wider on 

 the convex side. Uncini in single series pointing forward on somites 

 V to X and on all abdominal somites, in double interlocking series 

 on somites XI to XX, 105 on V, 98 more crowded on VII, and about 

 65 in each row on XII. On abdominal tori their number decreases 

 from before caudad. there being 32 on XXI, 25 on XXXV, etc. Uncini 

 of somites V to VII (PI. IX, fig. 49) have the base prolonged into a 

 slender manubrium with a thin membranous border and a jjrominent 

 anterior angle, the beak is long and slender and the low crest formed 

 of a few large teeth; guard slightly developed. On somites VIII to 

 X the manubrium becomes gradually reduced and the remaining 

 thoracic tori bear uncini of the form shown in fig. 50, which have 

 the ba.se short, without a manubrium, convex below, with slender 

 ligament, well developed guard, stout beak, and high crest of several 

 transverse rows of teeth. Abdominal uncini (fig. 51) are small, with 

 short base convex below and provided with slender anterior and 

 posterior ligaments, no guard and beak and crest nearly as in posterior 

 thoracic uncini. 



The color has faded, but in life is probably chiefly translucent green 

 or olive green, with scattered flakes of white and deep red blood spots 

 behind the ventral plates and below the setigerous tubercles. 



Type locality. San Diego; E. C. Starks, collector. Two specimens, 

 the type a female filled ^\^th large eggs. 



ThelepuB crispas Johnson. 



Thelcpus crispus Johnson, Proc. Bos. Soc. Xat. Hist., XXIX, p. 42S' PI. 17 

 figs. 175-1786. 



Common at both San Diego and Monterey; at the former between 

 tides and at the latter above and below low water. At Monterey Bay 

 specimens were taken at "big tide pool," June 28, 1904, point above 

 Third IWch, July 12, 1904, and dredged at Delinont^? wharf, same date. 



Young and half-grown examples passess numerous eyer^, l)ut full- 

 grown ones are nearly or quite eyeless. All specimens examined by 

 me have the deep end of the uncini narrower than in Johnson's figure 

 and the knob terminal with no projection beyond it. The luicini 

 differ constantly from those of T. hanutlus in the prominence of the 

 large crest teeth, while the row of smaller apical teeth is veryJittJe 

 developed or absent. Those of T. hamulus, on the contrary, have 




276 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



the crest teeth less prominent but more numerous and subdivided. 

 The tubes resemble those of T. cinciniiatus;^on\ei\u\Q& they are covered 

 with shell sand. 

 Polycirrus sp. ? (Plate IX, flg. .'j4). 



A much macerated Polycirrus, dredged at Delmonte wharf, Monterey 

 Bay, on July 12, 1904, has uncini very closely resembhng those of P. 

 aurantiacus (Grube) Malmgren, but is too imperfect for description. 



Polycirrus oalifornions sp. nov. (Plate IX, figs. 52, 53). 



The type is 28 mm. long, about 1.5 mm. in maximum diameter and 

 has 65 segments, 28 of which are setigerous. 



Prostomium large, projecting far forward as a long, narrow, highly 

 arched lobe shaped much like the inverted bowl of a spoon, about 

 twice as long as wide and equaling the first four segments. No eyes. 

 Tentacles very numerous, forming a densely tangled mass which 

 conceals much of the anterior end of the body, of two kinds, one very 

 slender and delicate, slightly enlarged distally and arising from a pair 

 of lateral areas, the other stouter with thin marginal expansions and 

 arising from a transverse band near the anterior border of the 

 tentaculiferous area. 



Peristomium a short, simple ring bounding the mouth; other seg- 

 ments varying in size with the degree of distention of the coelom, the 

 anterior ones faintly biannulate and the intersegmental furrows usually 

 rather obscure; dorsum smooth and strongly arched, a longitudinal 

 furrow immediately above the setigerous tubercles. Venter with a 

 deep neural groove bounded by prominent lateral muscular ridges 

 supporting the parapodia. 



First ventral plate entire, equilaterally triangular, the apex forward, 

 extending the entire length of the peristomium and somite II, followed 

 by eight short, oblong, ventral plates, each divided into equal quadrate 

 halves by the deep neural groove, the first five reaching the full length 

 of somites III to VII, the remaining three on segments VII to X being 

 reduced in size. 



The last ten or twelve segments taper very rapidly to a minute 

 simple pygidium. Coelom packed full of small eggs. 



Setigerous tubercles begin on II and continue to XXIX (inclusive). 

 They are small, project dorsad and laterad and bear small fan-shaped 

 fascicles of delicate colorless setae arranged in pairs of a small simply 

 capillary setse and a longer limbate one. After about XX the fas- 

 cicles become much smaller and inconspicuous. Tori begin on XIV, 

 at least no trace of uncini can be detected anterior to this segment. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 277 



At first they are long, narrow ridges reaching nearly to the middle 

 line and bearing a single series of about sixty iincini. Posterior to the 

 setigerous region the tori are shorter and thicker and bear only about 

 forty uncini. 



Uncini are small and delicate, the base with prominent posterior 

 angle, the rostrum slender and acute and about half as long as the 

 base, crest with two large profile teeth. Anterior uncini (PI. IX, 

 fig. 52) have the base less produced and blunter in front than those 

 from posterior tori (PI. IX, fig. 53). 



The uncini closely resemble those of P. nervosus v. Marenzeller, 

 but the latter has thirty-two setigerous segments and difTcre in the 

 character of the tentacles, the ventral plates and other features. 



Besides the type there is one additional incomplete specimen, both 

 having been taken at San Diego. 



AMPHIOTENID^. 



Peotinaria brevicoma Johnson. 



Pertinaria brcricnma Johnson, Proc. Bos. Soc. Xat. Hist., XXIX ClOOl'), pp. 

 423, 424; PI. 1.5, figs. 1.51-156. 



A single specimen taken at Delmonte wharf, in the vicinity of 



Monterey Bay, on July 12, 1904, agrees with Johnson's description. 



The tube is constructed of coarse sand grains. 



CAPITELLID^. 

 Notomastua tenuis J^P- nov. (Piute IX, Uk. o6). 



A ••^k-nder elongated worm, the single example of which i.-; macerated 

 in the middle but well preserved at the ends. The two pieces prob- 

 ably represent a nearly or quite complete worm which is 118 mm. 

 long and .8 mm. in diameter. Thoracic segments number 12 and 

 aVxlominal 191. The thorax of 12 segments is clavate, the anterior 

 half thickened, the posterior gradually narrowed, the abdomen 

 abruptly expanded to equal the maximum width of the thorax, then 

 tapering gently to the pygidium. 



Prostomium conical, pointed, with a few specks of pigment scattered 

 along the sides; when retracted somewhat inflated and completely 

 closing the mouth. 



Peristomium simple, achietous. Thorax clavate, terete, smooth 

 and scarcely iridescent, the intersegmental furrows faint; widest seg- 

 ment about two-fifths as long as wide, narrowest two-thirds as wide 

 as long, most of them equally and ol^scurely biannulate, the inter- 

 annular furrow with a bafkward bend or inset into the succeeding one 

 at the position of the lateral organs. Neuropodia and notopodia 




27S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



represented by small linear depressed tufts of capillary sette, the 

 notopodial setir fewer and less crowded. 



Anterior and posterior abdominal segments are relatively short 

 (one-half to two-thirds as long as wide) and separated by deep inter- 

 segmental furrows; in the middle macerated region the segments are 

 stretched to about twice their diameter. Except at the posterior end, 

 where the segments are somewhat angulated, the b(^dy is terete. 

 Pygidimn (possibly regenerated) a simple, short, subconical ring. 



Xo gills, genital pores, or lateral sense organs are visible. 



Abdominal tori are short and scarcely visible. The anterior noto- 

 podia bear about ten and the posterior about six crochets, while 

 anterior neuropodia have 16-18 and posterior neuropodia about 10 

 crochets. 



Crochets (PI. IX, fig. 55) ver}^ small and all alike, with a distinct 

 shoulder and a swelling neck bearing a very small head enclosed in a 

 large hood. 



San Diego, Cal. ; type only known. 

 ■ Eunotomastus gordiodes sp. nov. (Plate IX, fig. 56). 



Evidently an elongated and slender species, but none of the speci- 

 mens is nearly complete. The longest pieces are 60 mm. long and 

 1 mm. diameter. 



Prostomium a minute blunt palpode bearing a pair of nuchal organs. 



Peristomium a truncate, subconical, smooth segment slightly longer 

 than somite II and somewhat constricted about the middle. A pair 

 of small spots probably represent openings of the lateral organs. 



The thorax consists of seventeen setigerous segments in addition 

 to the peristomium, terete, of nearly uniform diameter, slightly con- 

 tracted toward the posterior end, very smooth and with faint and 

 often obsolete intersegmental furrows. All of these segments bear 

 smaU notopodial and neuropodial tufts of setae, the former separated 

 by a distance slightly greater than the latter. A very faint depressed 

 spot on each side of the segment somewhat nearer to the notopodia 

 than the neuropodia seems to be the orifice of the lateral organ; and 

 almost equally obscure pores at the same level and in most of the 

 posterior intersegmental furrows may be genital orifices. 



Anterior abdominal segments scarcely differ from the thoracic, 

 being similar in shape and proportions but less polished and iridescent, 

 farther back they become longer but remain smooth and ill-defined. 

 The largest numVjer of abdominal segments on any one piece is ninety- 

 five. Abdominal neuropodia form distinct ventro-lateral tori, some- 

 what elevated and glandular, connected ventrally only by a glandular 



1 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 279 



line and bearing a series of crochets extending over about one-sixth 

 of the body circumference. Xotopodia similar but smaller, the firet 

 bearing capiUan,' setae, the others crochets. Number of neuropodial 

 crochets on XIX 12-14, on XXV 32, notopodials on XXV 16. 



Posterior abdominal segments bear rather consjncuou.^^ tufted 

 dorsal gills, each consisting of eight or ten short filaments arising 

 close together from the posterior margin of the segment in line with 

 the notopodia. The most anterior of these gills are small and some- 

 what pectinate, farther back they increase in size until the filaments 

 have a length of one-third to one-half the diameter of the segments. 



All setse are of the usual limbate. capillaiy form with very slender 

 tips. The crochets (PI. IX, fig. 56j have a distinct shoulder, a neck 

 that gradually increases in diameter to a rather large head with stout 

 beak and high crest enclosed in a short but much inflated hood. 



Each of the specimens is enveloped in a thin membranous tube 

 covered by a single layer of loosely attached sand grains. 



Taken only at San Diego at low water by E. C. Starks; four speci- 

 mens. 



As both this species and the type of Eunotomasius are known from 

 incomplete specimens it is by no means certain that E. gordiodes 

 is correctly referred to this genus. 



Daiybranchus giganteus (Moore) (Plate IX, fig. 57). 



Nolomaslus giganteus Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1906, pp. 227, 

 22s; PI. X, figs. 24, 2.5. 



Specimens in this collection nuich better preserved than the type 

 enah)le me to correct and amplify the original description and to correct 

 the generic reference. The stout form and large size are of course 

 not at all noteworthy in the genus to which the worm is now referred. 



Prostomium nuich retracted so that the tip alone is visible. Pro 

 truded proboscis subglobular, bulbous, with a rosette-like end pre- 

 .senting eight sulcated radiating lobes and pro.ximad to this a closely 

 granulated basal ring. 



All .'-i.K specimens have twelve thoracic segment.'^. Peristomium 

 about as long as succeeding segments, acha?tous and biannulate. 

 Remaining thoracic segments .setigerous, strongly biannulated and 

 areolated on the surface. Xotopodial and ncurojH>dial fa.scicles Ijoth 

 simple linear tufts borne on the posterior ring just Ixjhind a tenon- 

 like inset of the anterif)r ring. Except on the first two or three setiger- 

 ous segments the neuropodial fa.sciclcK are nearly twice as wide as i\\e 

 notopodial and separated by a ventral inters-al of nearly one-half 

 the VkkIv diameter, the inter-ramal interval Wing slightly more than 




280 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [April, 



the inter-notopodial interval on anterior segments and nearly twice 

 as jjreat on XII. 



Abdominal segments about half as long as thoracic, usually irregu- 

 larly biannulate, thickly glandular anteriorly but (except at the tori) 

 becoming thin-walled posteriorly. Neuropodial tori extensive low 

 ridges, reaching on anterior segments from above the middle level 

 nearly to the neural line, but posteriorly scarcely half as long. They 

 become more elevated dorsally and end abruptly in a prominence, 

 above which is the small but distinct rounded ovoid lateral organ. 

 The very small notopodial tori are dorsal and connected across the 

 dorsum by a low transverse fold. Posteriorly they become very 

 obscure. 



Branchiae are retractile and usually olDscure anteriorly; on middle 

 and posterior abdominal segments they become conspicuous bushy 

 tufts composed of numerous (about 20-30) filaments arising from 

 the posterior end of the notopodial tori, or posteriorly, where the tori 

 become obsolete, replacing them. 



Abdominal lateral organs are distinct only posteriorly where the 

 tori become widely separated, appearing halfway between them as 

 small rounded elevations, above and below which a few small papillae are 

 scattered. Thoracic lateral organs and genital pores were not observed. 



The original drawings of crochets of this species were made from 

 imperfect specimens and a corrected representation is shown in fig. 57, 

 Plate IX. 



Six specimens of this species, one of which is 6 mm. in diameter, 

 occur in the Starks collection and were taken at San Diego between 

 tides. 



Dasybranchus glabrus sp. nov. (Plate IX. fig. 58). 



Body moderately stout, terete, and thickest anteriorly where it is 

 shaped much like a small earthworm; posteriorly more slender and 

 gently tapered, subquadrate, flattened below. The type and only 

 specimen is 45 mm. long with a maximum diameter of 2.4 mm. 

 Thoracic segments 14, abdominal 157. 



Prostomium partially retracted within the collar-like anterior 

 border of the peristomium, the exposed part bluntly rounded anter- 

 iorly with a shght ventral longitudinal furrow\ 



Peristomium a long, deeply biannulate segment (perhaps two seg- 

 ments) as long as any two of those following; the first ring is marked 

 by several shallow furrows. Entire thorax with firm, smooth, thickly 

 glandular walls, with very few markings ; the segments all uniannulate 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 281 



and separated by deep intersegmental furrows. Thoracic notopodia 

 and neuropodia bear short, equal, retractile linear tufts of setse, the 

 neuropodia being about t^Nice as far apart as the notopodia and the 

 distance between the latter about equaling the interramal space. 

 Lateral sense organs quite evident, slit-like pores near the caudal 

 border of the segments and nearer to the notopodia than the neuro- 

 podia. 



Abdominal segments very short and much crowded, especially 

 toward the anterior end; posteriorly they are obscurely biannulate 

 and less crowded. Anterior abdominal segments are terete and have 

 thick glandular walls much like the thoracic segments; farther back 

 the walls become thinner and non-glandular and except in the region 

 of the tori the surface is granular, and, chiefly owing to the separation 

 of the tori dorsally and ventrally, the section becomes subquadrate. 

 Anterior abdominal segments have no distinct tori, but bear a con- 

 tinuous line of sessile crochets which appear to completely encircle 

 the segment at the middle. After about the twelfth abdominal seg- 

 ment a slight lateral or interramal break appears and gradually widens 

 until the notopodia and neuropodia become well separated and distinct 

 tori. The neuropodia of each pair remain, however, continuous 

 across the neural surface, but except on a few anterior segments the 

 notopodia are discontinuous and posteriorly become separated quite 

 ^videly. Lateral sense organs are obscure on anterior abdominal 

 segments, but on middle and posterior segments become distinct tiiough 

 small rounded eminences. Pygidium probably injured as it is divided 

 into several very irregular lobe.':. 



Gills appear only in the posterior half of the body, usually as two, 

 or sometimes three, short, hollow, sausage-shaped filaments issuing 

 from a pore immediately dorsal to the neuropodium. 



Thoracic setw are exclusively of the usual tapering capillary form 

 with narrowly bilimbate ends. Abdominal segments bear exclusively 

 ver\' numerous crochets of one form in both notopodia and neuropodia 

 (PI. IX, fig. 58). They are .slender without a di.stinct shoulder, i)ut 

 with a sul)tcrminal enlargement that tapers to a small head with 

 hooked beak and three small teeth in the vertex of the crest, the end 

 enclosed in a somewhat inflated hood. 



The type was taken at San Diego Bay in Deceml)er, HX)2. 



This species differs from typical members of tho genus in having 

 two more than the usual number of thoracic segments. ' 




2S2 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apiil, 



MALDAl^ID^. 



Maldane disparidentata Mooru. 



MitUitine dis}xtridctUnln Moore, Proc. Acad. \at. Sci. Phila., 1904, pp. 

 494-49G; PL XXX\III. figs. 28-31. 



This species occurs in the collections from San Diego only, but 

 appeal's to be quite common there. 



One bottle contains, along with a specimen f)f this annelid, a small 



amphipod determined by Prof. 8. J. Holmes as Melita sp. which the 



label states lives commensallj' in its tube. From M. biceps, to which 



it is most nearly related, this species is readily distinguished by 



having more numerous and blunter teeth on the anterior division of 



the cephalic limbus, the last preanal segment uniannulate instead of 



biannulate, and the emargination on the ventral division of the caudal 



funnel entire instead of emarginated and slightly lobate. The fringed 



setffi are of the bispiral type. 



Clymenella rubrocincta Johnson. 



Cli/moiclla rubrocinda Johnson, Proc. Bos. Soc. Nat. Hist., XXIX (1901), 

 ■pp. 41S, 419; Pi. 13, figs. 128-133. 



The anterior half of one was taken between tides at San Diego. 



AMMOCHARID^. 

 Ammoohares ocoidentalis Johnson. 



Ammochares occidentalis Johnson, Proc. Bos. Soc. Xat. Hist., XXIX (1901), 

 pp. 420-421; Pi. 14, figs. 140-142. 



A single example from San Diego. It is a beautifully preserved 

 specimen 30 mm. long, with 22 setigerous segments. A fragment of 

 a tube is formed entirely of particles of shells. 

 Sclerocheilus pacificus sp. nov. (Plate IX, tig. 59). 



Form as in Scalibregma, clavate, the posterior two-thirds slender 

 and of nearly uniform diameter but tapering slightly caudad; the 

 anterior one-third abruptly swollen to three times the posterior 

 diameter. Length 25-35 mm., maximum diameter 2.5-3. G mm. 

 Segments 60-72. 



Prostomium depressed T-shaped, the basal part about as broad 

 as long and nearly half as wide as the peristomium, into which it is 

 deeply retracted. Antero-lateral limbs blunt projections each about 

 half as long as the width of the body of the prostomium. On each 

 side of the posterior dorsal region is a Vjroad, black o])liquc streak 

 which appears to be constituted of two parallel rows of small pigment 

 specks. At their anterior ends they are separated by one-half the 

 width of the body of the prostomium, but diverge as they pass back- 

 ward beneath the peristomial fold apparently into the nuchal orgaas. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



Peristomium a short, simple, unsculptured ring incomplete ventrally 

 where it reaches the sides of the mouth. Somite II also a simple ring, 

 but bearing lateral parapodia and bounding the mouth behind. Suc- 

 ceeding somites increase in diameter and become rapidly inflated; 

 III, IV and V are biannulate, with the larger setigerous annulus 

 posterior, the smaller annulus apparently arising in the intereegmental 

 furrow; VI and succeeding somites of the anterior region have the 

 setigerous annulus divided equally by a furrow that appears just 

 behind the seta. Each of the three rings thus formed is divided by 

 short deep furrows into a ring of tessellae or subquadrate areas which 

 are much more conspicuous on the dorsum than on the venter. In 

 the posterior region the interannular furrows become very faint or 

 completely disappear, leaving well-marked simple segments, generally 

 about one-fourth or one-fifth as long as wide and onh' very obscurely 

 areolated. 



Pygidium a simple, slightly oblique ring which bears no cirri on 

 either the type or cotype. Body walls very thin and readily ruptured. 

 Proboscis partly everted as a smooth broadly trilobed disk. 



Parapodia merely obscure lateral sweUings involving the entire 

 length of the somites in the anterior enlarged region and bearing the 

 two well-separated linear tufts of seta; opposite to the middle annulus. 

 Apparently there are no cirri, unless the minute knobs related to the 

 setse fascicles prove to be such. Gills are totally absent. 



Setse colorless with a faint bluish luster, chiefly capillary, of various 

 lengths, curved and slightly flattened distally. Anteriorly they are 

 most conspicuous, forming fan-shaped tufts with linear bases, the 

 neuropodial more spreading, the notopodial longer and curved doread; 

 the longest setie about as long as the segment. Posteriori }• the seta? 

 are fewer and less slender. Short inconspicuous furcate sette (fig. 59) 

 are paired with the capillary seta? on all except a few anterior segments 

 on which they cannot be seen. There arc no stout seta on II. 



The type, a mature male, and a smaller cotype wore taken at Tiiird 

 Beach Point, vicinity of Monterey Bay, by Mr. Spaulding on July 

 6, 1W5. 



This species as descriljed differs widely from the type of the genus, 

 especially in the absence of stout-seta? on II and the absence of neuro- 

 cirri. though it is possil)lc that the latter, like the caudal cirri, may \)e 

 easily detached. On the other hand the absence of gills and the pres- 

 ence of eye-spots are chanuiers which approximate it to the type, 

 .S. miniitus Grul>e. This sp(ci(s would also seem to indicate tha\ the 

 creation of Asclcrocheilus as a separate genus is unnecessary. 




2S4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apvil, 



OHLORH^MID^. 

 Brada sp. ? juv. 



Two small specimens dredged at a depth of forty feet at San Diego 

 are considered to be the young of a species of Brada or possibly of a 

 Trophonia in wiiich the anterior setae have not yet elongated. They 

 are about one-half inch long, clavate, with Avell-marked, simple seg- 

 ments, a few of which have been lost, thickly and uniformly C()\'ered 

 with papillae both doi-salh' and ventrally, those in the neighljorhood 

 of the parapodia scarcely longer than the others. All setsE are short, 

 only the notopodials of II being noticeably longer than the others. 

 On other segments both notopodial and neuropodial tufts consist of 

 a very few small, slender, tapered, flexible setae composed of numerous 

 joints which are always considerably longer than the diameter of the 

 seta. Xeuropodials are no stouter than notopodials. The setae differ 

 from any species of Brada or Trophonia examined by me, but the 

 differences are such as might be expected in juveniles. 



Trophonia papillata Johnson. 



Trophonia papillata Johnson, Proc. Bos. Soc. Nat. Hist., XXIX (1901), 

 p. 416; Pi. 12, figs. 122, 123. 



Two specimens dredged at Dehnonte wharf, Monterey Bay, July 12, 

 1904. 



The larger one has the head protruded. The mouth is a transverse 

 crescentic slit bounded below by a flat, slightly bilobed lip and above 

 by the slightly arched and thickened prostomium which bears the two 

 thick palps, grooved below, and above them eight tentacles in a trans- 

 verse series; the latter are about one-fourth as thick as the palps 

 and slightly exceed them in length. The small specimen is only 16 

 mm. long with 36 segments, badly abraded and nearly smooth except 

 the anterior four segments which are encased in a coating of agglu- 

 tinated sand grains. This may possibly be a distinct species. 

 Trophonia capulata sp. nov. (Plate IX, figs. CO, 61). 



This very distinct species is represented by the type only, which 

 measures, exclusive of the cephalic setae, 108 mm. long, the cephalic 

 setae being 9 mm. and the maximum diameter at the end of the first 

 fourth 5.5 mm. Number of segments 136, the first achatous. Form 

 elongated clavate, somewhat depressed at anterior end, subterete 

 at middle, becoming gradually subquadrate posteriorly. Anterior 

 half moderately stout, the posterior slender and gently tapered. 

 Coelom containing many large free eggs. 



Prostomium and peristomium completely retracted within first 

 setigerous somite, leaving a small opening directed somewhat ventrad 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 285 



and surrounded by prominent papillse, often arranged in groups, 

 and encrusted with fine sand grains, a particularly prominent group 

 of about four forming a small tuft supported on a narrow pedicle in 

 the mid-dorsal line between the first pair of notopodial setae fascicles. 

 Anterior end broadly rounded, the first few segments decidedh- 

 depressed but increasing in depth rapidly until by about \l they 

 have become terete. These segments are short, crowded and some- 

 what telescoped, so that each one somewhat overlaps the next anterior, 

 especially dorsally where this feature is emphasized by the greater 

 prominence of the cutaneous papillse. Remaining segments very 

 regular, simple and smooth, with clean-cut though shallow furrows 

 and from one-sixth to one-third as long as wide, becoming propor- 

 tionately longer as the diameter decreases posteriorly. Pygidium 

 a simple ring entirely lacking cirri. 



Integiunent thick and tough and more or less coated with a hard, 

 adhesive layer of fine sand, beyond which the tips of only the larger 

 papilhe project. On the venter and posteriorly the surface is nearly 

 smooth and the incrustation thin, but on the anterior dorsal region it 

 becomes rough and much thicker, forming, with the papillae, projecting 

 anterior margins to the segments and ensheathing even the larger 

 papilhe nearly to their ends. The larger cutaneous papilla; arc arranged 

 as follows: On the dorsal field is a transverse row of six or eight 

 projecting forward from the cephalic margin of each anterior segment. 

 In the ventral field on each side of the neural line and generally near 

 the middle of the segment is a single clavate papilla, replaced on more 

 anterior segments by a group of two or three; from one to three more 

 occur ventrad of the neuropodium. Surrounding the latter is an 

 irregular ring of papilla) composed usually of one or two dorsal and 

 ventral, two to four anterior and usually three posterior, the middle 

 one of the last group being nuich larger than the others and elevated 

 prominently on a conical base. A similar ring surrounds the noto- 

 podium, the postsetal group here also coasisting of one or two of 

 moderate size, and one very large one, often equaling the segment in 

 length anteriorly and elevated on a base which may bear the smaller 

 papilla; as well. Passing from before caudad all of these papilla; 

 gradually diminish in length, but their arrangement is constant. 



Except on the first two or three segments, on which they are more 

 crowded, the parapodia consist of widely separated notopodial and 

 neuropodial nearly or quite sessile tufts of seta?. The former are 

 fan-shaped fascicles of five to eight (the larger numbers on micldle 

 segments) flexible capillary seta?. Those of the first four (II to V) 




286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF ' [April, 



are eloiifiatod and directod forward, becoming in l)oth respects less 

 so from before backward; on 11 and 111 they arc remarkably slender 

 and silky and project far in front of the head to a distance of more 

 than twice the diameter of the body; thase of V scarcely equal the 

 body diameter. On middle segments the fascicles spread more 

 widely over the dorsum and scarcely exceed the length of their seg- 

 ments. Posteriorly they appear relatively but not actually longer. 

 Neiiropodial seta? are slightly coareer and fewer than the corresponding 

 notopodials; those of the first three fascicles have filamentous tips 

 and project forward like the notopodials, but are only about half as 

 long; on other segments they curve dorsad up the sides of the body. 



SetaB are all pale brown, soft and iridescent. As long as they project 

 forward notopodials and neuropodials are similar, excessively slender, 

 ^^•ith straight acute tips and numerous cross fractures or nodes, which 

 at the base of fuUy-grown setae occur five or six in a distance equal to the 

 diameter, becoming gradually fewer until they are six or eight times as 

 far apart. As they lose the filamentous tips the notopodial setre have 

 the region of crowded joints toward the base much restricted (PI. IX, 

 fig. 61). 



Neuropodial setie in becoming shorter and stouter also acquire fewer 

 and much longer joints, the terminal one becoming especially long 

 and. beginning with \, with a distinctly hooked tip, which a few seg- 

 ments farther back becomes much larger and provided with an acces- 

 sory process (fig. 60), thus having the form of a halter-snap like the 

 setse seen in certain species of Sthenelais. 



Color deep buff-gray and nearly uniform. 



Type locality, San Diego Bay, Cal., between tide limits. 



Flabelligera commensalis sp. nov. (Plate IX, figs. 62, 63). 



Form moderately slender, thickest in the cephalic fourth, thence 

 tapering to caudal end but usually exhibiting irregular contractions 

 or swellings ; more or less distinctly prismatic and somewhat compressed ; 

 body-walls thin and delicate and more or less ruptured so that the 

 viscera protrude. Type and largest complete specimen 50 mm. long 

 and at the widest part (XX) 2.4 mm. wide and 3.2 mm. deep; this 

 thickness, however, is probably in part due to an abnormal swelling. 

 Number of somites 90; a second complete specimen 48 mm. long has 

 70 segments. 



Prostomium with its appendages capable of complete retraction 

 within the collar and only incompletely exposed in these specimens. 

 So far as observed it consists of a pair of thin membranous dorsal 

 lobes, each bearing a dense tuft of thirty or forty slender tentacular 




1909.] NATUR.Ui SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 287 



filaments, the ends of which reach in extension scarcely beyond the 

 ends of the collar setae. The palpi, arising; immediately beneath the 

 tentacles and above the mouth, are more than twice as long and four 

 or five times as thick as the tentacles, blunt, slightly tapered and finger- 

 like, not at all spatulate or flabelliform, the venter T\ith a deep longi- 

 tudinal groove, the margins of which are merely slighth' crenulate 

 and not lobed. Mouth a transverse slit or a more rounded opening 

 with lobed margins normally hidden at the bottom of the collar. 



The collar region, reaching back as far as the firet ordinary somite, 

 probably represents the peristomium alone or perhaps both I and II. 

 It consists of a short achaetous posterior ring and a cylindrical or 

 funnelform, thin membranous collar with small dorso-median, ventro- 

 median and lateral incisions in its border, the whole being about as 

 long as the three somites next following. It beare the broad fan- 

 shaped conjoined fascicles of notopodial and neuropodial seta^ form- 

 ing a close continuous series, which, like a palisade of stakes, build 

 up the collar to double its own height. When the cephalic appendages 

 are extended they are embraced by the peristomial collar and setae 

 cage and when retracted are concealed within them, the setae of the 

 two sides drawing toward the middle line. The collar, which clearly 

 represents a pair of parapodia, is thickly studded with cutaneous 

 j)apillie, those at the base of the setae being very numerous, much 

 elongated and slender, with filamentous stalks bearing terminal knobs 

 and often reaching the tips of the setae. 



Succeeding segments are much shorter, their length never exceeding 

 one-third the width, and cjuite simple, witii the intersegmental papillae 

 quite high between the parapodia but elsewhere very slighth- developed. 

 Anteriorly for a short distance the body is subterete or subquadrate, 

 but for most of its length, owing to the position of the paraj)odia, is 

 subtriangular in section, the somewhat truncated apex being ventral, 

 the nearly flat base dorsal and the usually somewhat convex sides 

 lateral. In places where the body is much distended this convexity 

 or bulging may be sufficient to give to it a cross-section approaching 

 the circular. As noted al)ove the Ijody-wall is thin, easily ruptured, 

 and semi-translucent. Most of the surface is smooth and bears few and 

 small papilla;, but on the dorsum and about the para{)odia they 

 l)ecome larger and more numerous, those on and near the n<jtopodia 

 being largest of all and, like the collar papilhe, bearing very large 

 terminal knolw, and when extended reaching to the tips of the setae 

 and giving to the not(»|)o(lia the a.s[)ect of erect tufts or tassels. Tlie 

 neuroi)odial papilla; on the other hand are much sliorter and, like 

 those scattered over the dorsum, bear small tenninal knolls. 




288 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April. 



Parapodia arc remarkable chiefly for the position of the ncuropoclia. 

 The rami are rather large, widely separated and rather coiLspicuous 

 papillce. Notopodia situated at the extreme dorsal and widest part 

 of their segments, except on the first few at the basal angles of the 

 triangle. Owing to the slender jjapiDa which they bear they have 

 the form of graceful plumes or tassels bearing a few small capillary 

 setae. Neuropodia are rather larger, stouter and shorter subconical 

 tubercles, resemliling the false feet of certain caterpillars, and bearing 

 much smaller and less conspicuous papillse and a single stout hooked 

 seta. Except on the first eight or ten segments which are more or less 

 subterete and where they are widely separated, the bases of the two 

 neuropodia are nearly in contact at the neural apex of the compressed 

 triangular body. 



Xotopodial and collar setae (PI. IX, fig. 62) are all of the capillary, 

 soft, flexible, cross-fractured type, the former differing only in their 

 much greater length. In addition to a few, scarcely apparent, rudi- 

 mentaiy setae of the same type each neuropodium bears one (or rarely 

 two) large and stout hook (fig. 63), deep brown and opaque at the end, 

 but becoming paler toward the base and having an imperfect joint 

 below the hooked end. These hooks are directed toward the middle 

 line and are operated in pairs by powerful muscles, forming most 

 effective organs of adhesion. 



Dorsal surface and notopodia more or less deep (sometimes purplish) 

 brown, which color usually completely covers the collar and may extend 

 somewhat down the sides of the body which, like the venter and 

 neuropodia, is pale yellow, iLsually sharply contrasted with the brown 

 of the dorsum which appears to be due to the sensory papillse. 



The alimentary canal exhibits the gizzard-like stomach and looped 

 intestine characteristic of anneUds of this family. Unlike most species 

 of the genus there is no mucous investment, at least on these specimens. 



The four known specimens were taken at Picnic Tables, near Monterey, 

 Cal., on August 14, 1904, from among the spines of Strongylocentrotus 

 purpuratus. The latter is undoubtedly a normal habitat, for which 

 the structure of the worm admirably adapts it. The color, lateral 

 compression of the body, position of the neuropodia and the stout 

 neuropodial hooks would be especially useful in this situation. 



SABELLID^. 

 Sabella elegans Buhli. 



Sabella elegans Bush, Tubicolous Annnlids from the Pacific Ocean, Harriman 

 Alaska Expedition Reports, 1905, pp. 194, 195 (figvu-es). 



Vicinity of Monterey Bay only; four specimens "big tide pool," 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 289 



June 20, 1905; one small example dredged Delmonte wharf, July 12, 

 1904. 



These specimens appear to belong to the above-named species, 

 although Miss Bush's species of Sabella are not clearly differentiated 

 in the brief descriptioas. The spots on the branchiie are usually five, 

 fairly regular in arrangement, but var}dng much in intensity and the 

 degree to which they extend on to the gill filaments. The number 

 of rachises varies from IS to 22 on each side. The segments of one 

 counted number 70, 8 of which are sctigorous thoracic. 



Distylia rugosa M(>ore. 



Dlstylia rugosa Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sfi. Phila., 1904, pp. 499-501; 

 PI. XXXVIII, figs. 3S-41. 



Besides the type and cotype from which this species was originally 

 described several additional specimens, all taken between tides at 

 San Diego, occur in the collection. 



The specimeiLS are of various sizes, the largest measuring in its 

 contracted state 105 mm. long, of which the gills are 30 nmi., and 

 11 mm. wide. In the different specimens the branchial rachises vary 

 in number from 24 in one 40 mm. long to 68 on each side of the large 

 specimen. In no case are any of the rachises forked. The brancliial 

 bases make about 1^ turas. The eyes referred to in the original 

 description are mere specks and dashes of pigment arranged in two 

 series which may coalesce into more or le.ss broken lines or be totally 

 absent. 



Sometimes the branchia- are of a nearly imiform wine brown with 

 regular but obscure transverse pale bands; in other cases they may be 

 light or dark brown, irregularly mottled with pale. The gill ba«es are 

 uniform deep brown. At the doi-sal end of each abdominal torus is a 

 very deep and conspicuous l)rown spot, from which a narrow brown 

 line runs along the torus for its entire length, ending in a small spot 

 at the ventral end. The ventral plates arc very (loop jiurjjlisii brown, 

 the body elsewhere pale brown. 



The largest specimen has the collar region so relaxed that the'mouth 

 parts are well displayed. Tho tontaclos are narrowly lanceolate with 

 a small divergent l)asal lobe and reach barely to the distal border of 

 the branchial base. 

 Pseadopotamilla brevibranchiata M'".r«-. 



I'sritdoi'oltirnUla hrcrihriiiirhtata Moon*, i'roc. .Vcad. Nut. Sri. Phila., 190.'), 

 pp. .559-.562; PI. XXXVII, fipj. H-ll. 



Two specimens taken at "big tide pool," Monterey Bay, {)re^ent 

 several interesting divergences from the types. 

 19 




200 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



The l>ranchial l>arbs are somewhat l(iii<>;er — four or five times the 

 diameter of the rachises and diminished but sHgiitly toward the distal 

 end — and the dorsal branchial lappet is very prominent. Both speci- 

 mens are filled with nearly matin-e eggs. One has nine setigerous 

 segments, the other only six and the thorax shorter than the gills. 

 The fii'st has the eye-spots scattered through a wide zone and occa- 

 sionally more than one on a rachis; the other has a single nearly black 

 e3'e-spot proximad of the middle on most of the middle rachises. 

 Both have the gills otherwise colorless. 



The tubes form a cluster of three and are nearly colorless, stiff and 

 hard and covered with an incrustation of fine sand. Two other empty 

 tubes dredged near the same locality probably also belong to this 

 species. 



SERPULID^. 

 Protula superba !=P- nov. (Plate IX, rtss. 64, 05). 



The least contracted specimen of this magnificent serpulid has the 

 bod}' 88 mm. long and the contracted gill-crowns 37 mm. long; length 

 of thorax measured along venter of mantle 37 mm.; width of thorax 

 at anterior end 16 mm., at posterior end 12 mm.; depth at latter point 

 7 mm. ; width of abdomen at middle 10 mm. ; depth at same point 9 

 mm.; length of branchial base 9 mm.; length of one of the longest 

 rachises 23 mm. Number of thoracic segments 8 (7 setigerous), of 

 abdominal segments 115-120. Another specimen is even larger but 

 more contracted. 



The contracted branchial crowns form a pair of great compact 

 brushes or plumes, the base and axis of which is a high spiral peraia- 

 nently woimd into seven or eight close turns, stout and of firm texture 

 throughout and triangular in section. They are readily detached, 

 leaving a triangular scar on each side of the mouth. Leaving a short 

 pedicel of attachment the branchiferous spiral begins on the dorsal 

 side and beai^s in the one cotype on which they were counted no less 

 than 320 radicles in a closely crowded series on each side. The basal 

 ones are the longest and they diminish in length regularly to the apex 

 at a rate that indicates that their tips reach a uniform level in full 

 extension. A rather thick interbranchial membrane is connected 

 with the outer faces of the basal ends of the rachises and unites them 

 for about one-fifth of their length. The rachises are compressed 

 triangular with the base directed outward and the apex toward the 

 center; narrow membranous borders arc appended to the basal 

 angles and reach from the interbranchial membrane nearly to their 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



tips. A double rank of numerous pinna? or filaments arises along the 

 inner or apical face of the rachises and continues nearly to their tips; 

 the longest of these scarcely exceed the greater diameter of the rachises 

 and they diminish in length distally. 



Tentacles lanceolate, foliaceous, about as long a.s the diameter of 

 the branchial bases, to the ventral side of which they are attached. 

 Just within them, enclosing the mouth and about one-third as high 

 as the interbranchial membrane, are the oral membranes, which like 

 the tentacles are detached with the branchial crowns. Mouth trans- 

 veree, its cornere bounded above b}- a low rounded elevation, from 

 between which a tongue-shaped process projects over the mouth. 

 \'entral to it is a soft irregular lip, and below this again a much larger 

 firm triangular lip. 



Thorax depressed, broader anteriorly than posteriorly and regularly 

 tapered caudally. Segments eight, all but the peristomium setigerous; 

 intereegmental furrows obsolete. Thoracic mantle thin and greatly 

 developed, embracing all of the setae tufts and extending beyond them 

 to a width fully equal to that of the thorax. Though folded and 

 somewhat tufted between the fascicles of seta? the margin of the mem- 

 Vjrane appears to be entire and not scalloped. Its cephalic border is 

 divided into a pair of doi-sal setal loijes, enclosing the collar seta tufts, 

 and a ventral pair of l)ranchial lobes. The median notch separating the 

 latter is wide and shallow, the lateral notches, on the contrary, being 

 deep and narrow. The posterior fold or apron is thicker, has an 

 extensive glandular area and projects only slightly as a broad median 

 ventral lobe. There is a broad but shallow and rather ill-defined 

 dorsal thoracic groove and an annular groove, somewhat distinct on 

 the doreum, separating the thorax and abdomen. 



Abdomen rather soft, broadly rounded laterally, slightly depressed, 

 tapered gently to the pygifliuni and divided into dorsal, lateral or 

 parapodial, and ventral or neural fields, the latter being marked by a 

 l)road, open fecal groove. Abdominal segments numerous, veiy 

 sjjort, much crowded, and distinctly indicated by the extensive tori 

 only. Integument of dorsal and ventral surfaces more or less swollen 

 and wrinkled, probably in part due to the preserving fluid. A cal- 

 careous incrustation occupies a nearly circtilar area on the dorsum 

 of the caudal end, which is bluntly rounded and terininaled by a very 

 short pygidium containing a large, vertical, slit-like anus guarded 

 by somewhat tumid lips. * 



Thoracic setie form seven compact flattened tufts, somewhat spread- 

 ing distally, of veiy nmnerous seta'; they project obliquely dorsad 




292 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



and the collar tuft somewhat cephalad, the othoiv; ciuuUul. The 

 collar fa.scicle is subdivided into two, the othei*s into three ranks 

 closely united above but separating somewhat ventrall}', the anterior 

 rank being composed of smaller setae and separated from the others 

 by a small membranous fold. All thoracic seta: (PI. IX, fig. 65) 

 are similar, pale yellow, narrowly bilimbate, the more doi-sal ones 

 somewhat longer and those of the posterior rank slightly curved. 

 Abdominal fascicles are mucii smaller, with seldom more than twelve 

 shorter but otherwise similar seta\ At the caudal end a certain 

 number of segments bear much longer, very slender capillary setae 

 without limbaj. 



Thoracic tori are very difficult to discern, the long, somewhat irregu- 

 lar series of very numerous uncini being nearly embedded in thick 

 glandular areas below the setae tufts. The narrow, vertical abdominal 

 tori occupy the sides of the segments rather toward the venter. They 

 are crowded fleshy folds slightly free and projecting at both ends, 

 longer in the middle of the abdomen, becoming shorter toward both 

 ends, and finally obsolete caudally. Uncini (PI. IX, fig. 65) verj' 

 numerous, not less than 350 on VIII, small, with the toothed margin 

 very long, conspicuously elevated above and prolonged into a slender, 

 blunt and slightly bifid or notched process below and bearing twenty 

 to twenty-five long, slender, acute teeth, of which four or five smaller 

 ones are on the inferior prolongation. X^o difference Ijetween thoracic 

 and abdominal tori was perceived. At the ventral end of each abdomi- 

 nal torus is a small group of simple spines which persist through the 

 caudal region after the uncini have ceased. 



All of the four specimens examined are quite colorless and totally 

 ack pigment. The preserved worms bear a striking resemblance in 

 form to the conventionalized classic torch with the vigorous and some- 

 what divided flame represented by the gill plumes, wliich when living 

 and extended must form a magnificent crown. 



Tube white, thick, massive, the walls often 5-6 mm. thick and the 

 outer diameter up to 19 mm. The inner layers are hard and stony, 

 the lining somewhat polished, the outer layers becoming chalky and 

 the outer surface roughened by numerous growth lines. The older 

 parts make several irregular open coils beneath and around stones, 

 the newer portions extending freely horizontally into the water, in 

 one case to a distance of 145 mm. Orifice perfectly terete, smooth, 

 polished and thin. 



The type (No. 79, Coll. Acad. Xat. Sci.), together with the tube 

 and two other worms, were collected for the Academy at Pacific Grove, 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 293 



near Monterey Bay, at a depth of 40 fathoms, b}- Prof. Harold Heath. 

 A single example appears in the Stanford University collection, and 

 was taken by a Chinese fisherman on a red-cod Une in the vicinity 

 of Monterey Bay on February 20, 1902. 



Several species of Protula have been described from the Pacific, and 

 it is possible that P. atypha Bush or some of the other smaller species 

 may be the young of this, but they have far fewer branchial rachises. 

 Indeed this species departs from typical members of the genus in the 

 large number of rachises and complexity of the gill-bearei"s or bases. 



Serpala Columbiana Johnson. 



Serpula colianhinna Johnson, Proc. Bos. Soc. Nat. Hist., XXIX, pp. 432, 

 433; PI. 19, figs. 199-204. 



"Lighthouse Point," vicinity of Monterey Bay, in a big tide pool, 

 June 28, 1904. Three medium-sized specimens with portions of tubes. 



The operculum is more slender and has a more finely serrated margin 

 than the one figured by Johason. One counted had 140 serrations 

 and ribs and 38 pairs of branchial rachises. 



HERMELLID^. 

 Sabellaria califomica Fewkis (I'latc IX, tifin. 6Ca and 6). 



Sahrllarui Calijornicn Fewkes, Bull. Essex Inst., XX (1.S89), pp. 130-132; 

 PI. ^'II, figs. 3 and 4. 



Only two specimens from San iJicgo are contained in the collection. 

 In the vicinity of Monterey Bay the species appears to be more abun- 

 dant, specimens being present from " I.ightliouse Point," Jinic 28, 1904; 

 "big tide pool," June 20, 1905, and Delmonte wharf, dredged July 12, 

 1904. 



The degree of pigmentation differs greatl}', some being pair, othere 

 deep brown, the latter type strongly j>revailing. 



This species is readily distinguished from the next by the character 

 of tiie opercular spines, which, with the exception of those of the con- 

 cealed inner series, are opaque, dark brown or black. The exposed 

 parts of the outer series are erect, of the inner and middle series 

 recuml)ent, whereas in »S'. cemcvtarium the j-ellow spines of all three 

 series are more or less erect, those of the middle series Ix'ing very 

 prominently so. The exposed parts of both the inner and middle 

 series of this specie's are [)laced at right angles to the slender stem or 

 tendon. The long, i)ick-like spines of the middle series (fig. G(k/) are 

 very hard and the pointed, slightly hooked tips frequently interdigi- 

 tato and cross in the middle. c«»mj)letely concealing the inner wHorl. 

 The latter (fig. 66/>) are niuch more delicate, flattened, yellow, s(»me- 




294 ruocELDixGS of the academy of [April, 



what cliaff-like structures, the divided and densely fringed tips of 

 which often embrace the ends of the middle series of spines. 



The tubes of this species Fewkes describes as forming great masses 

 of agglutinated sand grains and shell fragments in the caverns of 

 "wave-worn cliffs. Thc^e of »S. ccmcniormm, so far as known, occur 

 singly or in small groups attached to shells and stones. \Vliich one 

 of these species, if either, was described by Baird under the name of 

 »S. saxicava it is impossible to determine from the brief description. 

 So far as it goes the description fails to fit either, and it seems probable 

 that a third species is represented on this coast. 



Sabellaria cementarium Moore. 



Sabellaria ceineniarium Moore, Prof. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 190G, pp. 24S- 

 253; PI. XII, figs. 45-51. 



Two specimens among S. californica from "big tide pool," Monterey 

 Bay, June 20, 1905. 



Explanation of Plates VII, \lll, IX. 



Plate VII. — Tri/panosyllis intermedia — figs. 1 and 2. 



Fig. 1. — End of seta from somite X, X 360. 



Fig. 2. — Same from somite L, X 360. 

 Phyllodoce medipapillata — figs. 3 and 4. 



Fig. 3. — Parapodium from somite X, X 24. 



Fig. 4. — Seta from somite XX\', X 360. 

 Eunice paloloides — figs. 5-7. 



Fig. .5. — Compound seta from somite C, X 440. 



Fig. 6. — \'entral view of mandibles, X. 9. 



Fig. 7. — Dorsal A-iew of maxilla;, X 9. 

 Marphysa slj/lobranchiata — figs. 8-12. 



Fig. 8. — Simple acute seta from somite XXV, X 250. 



Fig. 9. — Simple pectiniform seta from same, X 440. 



Fig. 10. — Compound seta from same, X 440. 



Fig. 11. — Mandibles from ventral side, X 24 



Fig. 12. — -MaxilUc from dorsum, X 24. 

 Marphysa calijurnica — figs. 13-20. 



Fig. 13. — Simple seta from dorsal portion of upper tuft of XXV, X 250. 



Fig. 14a and b. — Two forms of simple pectiniform setae from somite XC, 

 X 440. 



Fig. 15. — Compound seta with appendage of moderate length from somite 

 XX\', X 360. 



Fig. 16. — Hooded crochet from somite C, X 360. 



Fig. 17. — Ventral %'iew of mandibles, X 9. 



Fig. 18. — Dorsal view of right mandible, X 9. 



Plate VIII. — Marphysa californica. 



Fig. 19. — Dorsal view of maxilla; of left side in normal relation, X 9. 

 Fig. 20. — Dorsal view of right maxilla; partly separated, X 9. 

 Drilonereis nuda — figs. 21-23. 



Fig. 21. — Parapodium C, anterior face, X 83. 

 Fig. 22. — ^Seta from middle of same, X 360. 

 Fig. 23. — Dorsal view of jaws, X 24. 

 Stauronereis moniloceras — figs. 24-29. 



Fig. 24. — Compound seta from parapodium XXV, X 440. 

 Fig. 25. — Tip of a coarser simple seta from XXV, X 600. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 295 



Fig. 26. — Ventral view of mandibles, X 24. 



Fig 27. — Anterior (a) and po-sterior (b) maxillte of outer series, X S3. 



Fig. 28. — Anterior maxilla of middle series, X S3. 



Fig. 29. — .Anterior (a) and middle (b) maxillae of inner series, X S3. 

 Aricia johnsoni — figs. 30-33. 



Fig. 30. — Tip of stout neuropodial seta from somite X, X 600. 



Fig. 31. — Portion of slender neuropodial seta from somite L, X 600. 



Fig. 32. — Optical section of a portion of a notopodial seta from somite L, 

 X 600. 



Fig. 33. — End of a furcate notopodial seta from somite C, X 600. 

 Naineris robusta — figs. 34-37. 



Fig. 34. — Stout neuropodial seta from somite XXV, X 250. 



Fig. 35. — Slender neuropodial from same, X 250. 



Fig. 36. — Face (a) and profile (b) x-iews of a portion of a capillary notopodial 

 seta from somite C, X 600. 



Fig. 37. — Two furcate notopodial setae from somite C, X 300. 

 Naineris longa — figs. 38-42. 



Fig. 38. — Stout neuropodial seta from posterior series of somite XX, X 250. 



Fig. 39. — Slender neuropodial seta from anterior series of somite XX, X 250. 



Fig. 40. — Notopodial seta from somite XX, X S3. 



Fig. 41. — Neuropodial spine from posterior series of a middle somite, X 250. 



Fig. 42. — Furcate notopodial seta from middle region, X 360. 



Plate IX. — Fig. 43. — Than/x mullifilis — Anterior end of cotv-pe, X 9. 



Fig. 44. — Dodecaceria pacifica — Neuropodial spine from somite LXXV, 

 X 2.50. 

 Pista elonffntn — figs. 4.5-47. 



Figs. 4.5-47. — Uncini from somites V, XIV and XX\' respectively, X 250. 

 Pista alata — figs. 48-51. 



P'ig. 48. — Limbate seta from somite X\', X 2.50. 



Figs. 49-51. — Uncini from somite V, XV and X.\X respectively, X 250. 

 Poh/cimts call j amicus — figs. 52, 53. 



Fig. 52. — Uncinu.s from XX, X 440. 



Fig. 53 — Uncinus from XXX\', X 440. 



Fig. 54. — Pobjcirrus sp. — .Vnterior uncinas, X 440. 



Fig. 55. — Notomastus tenuis — .\nterior abfloniiiial crochet, X 440. 



Fig. 56. — Eunotomaslus gordiodes — Neuropodial crochet from somite XXV, 

 X 360. 



Fig. 57. — Dasybranchus giganteus — Corrected figure of crochet, X 360. 



Fig. 58. — Dasybranchus glabrus — Neuropodial crochet from somite XXV, 

 X 360. 



Fig. 59. — Sclerochcilus pacificus — Quarter view of a posterior furcati- seta, 

 X 440. 

 Trophonia capulatn — figs. 60, 61. 



Fig. 60. — Lnd of neuroprnlial seta from somite XXV, X "-oO. 



Fig. 61. — Notopodial seta of .same, X 56. 

 Flahclligern rommensnlis — figs. 62, 63. 



Fig. 62. — Collar seta, X 56; a, portion of same, X 2.50; b, distal ciul of a 

 sen.sory ^)apilla from collar, X 56. 



Fig. 63. — Neiiropodi.il hook from somite XXV, X S3. 

 Prolula /niperlxi--ii(:^y<. (W, 65. 



Fig. 64. — Shorter liinl)atc seta from .somite VIII, X 56. 



Fig. 65. — ^I'nciiius from somite XXV, X 3(K). 

 SabelUiria cnlijormrn — figs. 6(Vi an<l b. 



Fig. 66n. — Pah-a of middle .series of operculum, X 33. 



Fig. 60/>. — Same of inner series, X 33. 




206 ruocioEDixGs of thr academy of [Miiy, 



May 4. 

 Arthur Erwix Brown, Sc.D., Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Sixty-five pereons present. 



The Publication Committee reported the reception of a paper 

 entitled "The Vegetation of the Salt ilarshes and of the Salt and Fresh- 

 water Ponds of Northern Coastal New Jersey," by John W. Harsh- 

 berger, Ph.D. (April 24). 



The deaths of Charles Hartshorne, October 30, 1908, and of Dr. 

 Joseph Thomas, January 28, 1909, members, were announced. 



Mr. Stewardsox Brown made a communication on a botanical 

 trip to the headwaters of the Saskatchewan and Athabasca Rivers,, 

 British Columbia. (No abstract.) 



May 18. 

 Arthur Erwix Browx, Sc.D., ^^ice-President, in the Chair. 



Forty-one pereons present. 



The presentation of a paper entitled "The Occurrence of Bufo 

 columbiensis East of the Rocky Mountains," by Robert T. Young 

 (May 5), was reported by the Publication Committee. 



The death of Dr. C. N. Peirce, a member of the Council, May 15, was 

 announced. 



Prof. Gilbert Vax Ixgex made a communication on the so-called 

 Clinton Iron Ore of Bloonxsburg, Penna. (No abstract.) 



Mr. Edgaji T. Wherry spoke of the silicified woods of the New Red. 

 (No abstracts.) 



Scolithus linearis Burrows with Orifice Complete. — Mr. Benjamin 

 Smith Ly'Max remarked that Scolithus linearis, so abundant at many 

 places in the Pennsj-lvania Cambrian quartzite, was long supposed to 

 be a fucoid plant; and even so late as thirty years ago was in a well- 

 known valuable text-book called a plant, though at least fifteen years 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 297 



earlier it had been correctly given as a worm-burrow in Dana's Manual, 

 where it was said to be common in the Potsdam sandstone. Walcott 

 later found it to be Cambrian; and said, in 1890, he had never seen it 

 in the classical Potsdam. 



Specimens were met with during a field excursion of the ^Nlinera- 

 logical and Geological .Section on October 17, 1908, which fully 

 demonstrated with remarkable clearness that the Scolithus linearis is a 

 worm-burrow in the sand of a sea-l)each. In one of ^Ir, Bean's Cam- 

 brian quartzite quarries, called by him the Davis quarry, at the eastern 

 end of the North \'alley Hill and at three-quarters of a mile southwest 

 of Valley Forge, many burrows of Scolithus linearis were iound; 

 and on one small slab, with burrows, numerous little circular ridges were 

 instanth- recognized In- Mr. F. J. Keeley as the crater-shaped orifices of 

 Scolithus holes precisely like those of sand-burrowing worms to be seen 

 on our present sea-beaches at Atlantic City and elsewhere (Plate X). 



The highly interesting and useful, perha))s hitherto unique slab, 

 5^ X 6^ inches, was presented to the Academy by the finder, Mr. 

 .\lan G. Smith. It is well, however, to bear in mind, that further 

 tluarrA'ing may, of course, disclose other eciually perfect specimens 

 that originated on the same ancient sea-beach. 



A somewhat similar l)urrow with a rather complete orifice was found 

 by the late Ellis Clark "in the Siluro-Cambrian limestone of Lehigh 

 County, about a quarter of a mile north of Helfricli's Si)ring:" and is 

 described by Prof. Frederick Prime in Report 1)2, p. 79, of the State 

 Geological Survey, 1878. The fossil was sul^mitted to Dr. Otto 

 Torell, Director of the Geological Survey of Sweden, and at once 

 recognized by him as belonging to his genus Monocratcrion, and given 

 the specific name of Icsleyi. The genus is closely allied to Scolithus, 

 but the straight tube "gradually expands at the top into a funnel- 

 shaped cavity, corresponding to a like protul)erance in the animal." 

 The smaller part of tlie tube is larger than our Scolithus; and in one 

 specimen is three-eigiiths of an inch in diameter, with the fuimel ex- 

 panding, within a length of half an inch, to an inch or more in diameter. 



The following were ordered to be pubhshed: 




298 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^i^O-Y, 



THE OCCURRENCE OF BUFO COLUMBIENSIS EAST OF THE ROCKY 

 MOUNTAINS. 



UY ROBERT T. YOUNG. 



High mountain chains, especially those whose crests extend above 

 timber line, are more or less efficient barriers to the spread of animals. 

 This is more j^articularly so in the case of species which do not migrate 

 easily from place to place. 



The capture of Bufo columbiensis on the eastern slope of the Conti- 

 nental Divide in Colorado is, therefore, of some interest. 



In August, 1902, I obtaijied a specimen of this toad on the eastern 

 slopes of the Arapahoe Peaks, about 28 km. west of Boulder, Colo., at 

 an altitude of about 3,100 m., and it has since been reported to me by 

 Prof. Beardsley, of the Colorado State Normal School, from the eastern 

 slope of the mountains west of Greeley. 



Cope* gives this species as a characteristic of the Pacific district of 

 the Western sub-region of the Medicolumbian region, included in the 

 Transition of Merriam.^ ^ly records, however, show it to occur in the 

 Hudsonian zone, far above the upper limit of the Transition, where it 

 has doubtless migrated from its original habitat. 



There are several passes in northern Colorado over the Continental 

 Divide which cross the mountains below timber line, affording possible 

 paths of migration for toads from the western to the eastern slope. 



Further observations on the distribution of this species on both 

 slopes of the mountains, taken from year to year, would doubtless be 

 of interest as affording some data for a determination of the conditions 

 and rate of migration of toads. 



' The Geographical Distribution of Batrachia and ReptiHa in North America, 

 Am. Nat., XXX, 886-902 and 100.3-1026. 



^ Laws of Temperature Control of the Geographic Distribution of Terrestrial 

 Animals and Plants, Nat. Geog. Mag., VI, 229-238. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 299 



ON THE SPINNERETS, CRIBELLUM. COLULUS, TRACHEA AND LTJNG BOOKS 



OF ARANEADS. 



BY THOMAS H. MONTGOMERY, JR. 



This paper presents observations on the ontogeny of the organs men- 

 tioned in the title, together with notes on the anatomy of the cribelhim 

 and cohdiLS and .with certain considerations on the broader mor- 

 phological relations of these various organs. 



The embryos of the spiders examined were killed in Carnoy's fluid 

 (absolute alcohol, chloroform and glacial acetic acid in ecjual parts, 

 with corrosive sublimate to saturation), an excellent fixative that 

 makes it possible to cut with ease good series of paraffine sections; 

 it has the disadvantage of frecjuenth" producing an extra ovat of yolk 

 in the earlier stages. After fixation and hardening the egg membranes 

 are readily removed with needles. In order to secure good svn-face 

 views of the abdomen after the stage of reversion it is liest to cut off 

 the cephalothora.x, and with a knife to remove a considerable portion 

 of the abdomen itself so as to allow the stain (preferably Delafield's 

 ha?matoxyline) to penetrate evenly. The adult spinning oi'gans 

 with the cribellum or colulus are best examined in balsam after 

 dehydration and clearing, and after the dorsal half of the abdomen 

 has been cut away. Of Thcridium tcpidariorum and Loxosceles 

 rujcscens I secured accurately timed stages by breeding females in 

 captivity. The material of T lurid ium was collected by me at Woods 

 Hole, Massachusetts, and that of Loxosceles, Erogrus and Filistdta 

 hihcrnalis at Austin, Texas. I am obliged t(} Mr. Nathan Banks for the 

 determination of these species. 



1. Colulus, CRinKLLUM and Spinnericts. 



The fii"st fjuestion to be taken up is tiie mattei- of tiic mori)hol(>gical 

 relations of the colulus and cribellum to the si)inner('ls. 



According to the cla.ssification of Simon (1S92) two main grou|)s of 

 the Aranea; are distinguished: the Aranea) theraphosir and the Ara- 

 neie verie. The former include the families Jjphistiida', Aviculariidu' 

 and Atypida); of these the fii"st are unifpic among all si)i(lei-s in the 

 possession of four pail's of true spinnerets (niammillip), wjiiic most 




300 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [MaV, 



Aviculariiihr possess only two paii-s/ and the AtypicUv (tlic ^onus 

 Bracln/botlirium excepted) possess three pairs. Almost all the Aranea* 

 vera* have three pail's of spinnerets.' These discrepancies in ininiber 

 make it somewhat difficult to homolop;ize the paii-s of different f:;r()n}x<, 

 a difficulty briefly mentioned by Stevenson (190S). 



The three paii*s of spinnerets found in most of the Araneap versp 

 are named in antero-posterior order: the anterior (inferior), the 

 median, and the posterior (superior). Between the spinnerets of the 

 anterior pair may be placed either a cribellum or a colulus, both of 

 which are absent in the TheraphosfP. The cribellum was discovered 

 by Blackwall (1839), and has been most thoroughly described by 

 B?rtkau (1882) as a small transveree plate, sometimes halved by a 

 m?dian carina, this plate provided with the very mmierous minute 

 pores which are the openings of multicellular spinning glands, and the 

 spinning plate enclosed in a chitinous frame. In species possessing 

 it the fourth pair of metatarsi are each provided with a row of recurved 

 hairs, called the calamistrum and also dicovered by Blackwall; the 

 latter is used as a comb to draw out the silk issuing from the cribellum — 

 an operation that can be clearly seen in the larger species of Filistata, 

 though it is performed with great rapidity. In mature males the 

 cribellum is more or less rudimentary, for which Bertkau offers the 

 valid explanation that adult males do not spin snares. Blackwall 

 and Bertkau correctly interpreted the cribellum as a modified and 

 fused pair of spinnerets, while Thorell (1870), who called it the "infra- 

 mamillary organ," argued against such a comparison, though without 

 cogent reasons. . 



The colulus or hypopygium (Menge, 1843) is a conical projection or 

 small tubercle -occupying approximately the place of the cribellum 

 in some of the families of the Aranese verse which do not possess the 

 cribellum. It has no spinning glands and there is no calamistrum 

 associated with it. Menge compared it with a rudimentary cribellum, 

 but Bertkau argued that the colulus is a simple integumentary fold 

 representing the region between tracheal stigma and cribellimi. 



To decide with which of the three pairs of spinnerets of most Araneae 

 the two pairs of most Aviculariidae correspond, I have examined some 



' The exceptions are the genera Hexathele and Scotinacus w-ith a third (most 

 anterior) pair of very small spinnerets; and /I ru.so pis and Diplothele with only- 

 one pair. 



^ According to Simon, I.e., less than three pairs are exhibited by the foIlo^\■ing: 

 the Hadrotarsida', Palpimanida; (except Hnttonia), the Zodariid genera Lutica, 

 Hermipus, Mallinu-'^, and the Arclia-id M ecysmauchenius — these named genera 

 having only one pair. 



I 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 301 



early stages of the Aviculariid Evagrus — this being to my knowledge 

 the first account of the embryology of any Theraphosid. The earliest 

 stage possessing extremities found is shown in fig. 28, Plate XI^', a 

 lateral view. Next to the head lobe is found the cheliceroii (Chd.), 

 then the pedipalp {Ped.), then the four pairs of thoracal legs (L. 1- 

 L. 4). The abdomen is remarkable in possessing only two segments 

 (1, 2), whereas in other spidei"s at a corresponding stage the abdomen 

 would be richly segmented, and in having a huge caudal lobe (C. L.) 

 projecting forward. The next stage available is that of fig. 29, a 

 ventral view of the abdomen: the two paii-s of lung books (Pul.) have 

 formed, the nerve ganglia (A^. C) are clearly marked, and there are 

 indications of three paire of spinnerets. Of the latter the anterior 

 (.4. Sp.) are only faintly marked thickenings, and evidently belong 

 to the fourth abdominal segment; the median spinnerets (M. Sp.) 

 are rounded projections just median to and in the same plane with 

 the largest posterior spinnerets {P. Sp.), therefore outgrowths of the 

 fifth segment. Three successive later stages, shown in figs. 30-32 

 respectively, show that the anterior spinnerets have disappeared and 

 that it is those of the fifth segment, the median and the posterior, 

 that persist into the adult. Thus the fourth segment, as shown clearly 

 in figs. 30 and 31, produces no respirator}' organs, but originates a 

 pair of rudimentary spinnerets that subsequently disappear. 



The two pairs of spinnerets of Evagrus, and of probably also other 

 Aviculariids with that number, correspond to the median and i)osterior 

 spinnerets of those araneads with three paii-s; but the development 

 shows that Evagrus retains in the embryo a slight trace of the anterior 

 pair. This homology has been already suggested by Simon, on the 

 basis of the relative pasition of the parts in the adult. 



In the next place we may consider the colulus, an organ tiuit has 

 received only the scantiest attention. It may be best studied in 

 Sicariids where it attains its greatest size, and the following account 

 applies to the genus Loxoscelcs. 



In an adult individual the form and jxisition of the colulus is shown 

 on ventral view in fig. 20, I'l. XI 11. It is an unjniired conical jjrojec- 

 tion {Col.) between the anterior spinnerets (.4. Sp.), its base conflu- 

 ent with their bjises and at some distance behind the tracheal stigma 

 (7'. St.). The transverse line in the figure which crosses it from left 

 to right represents the border of askin-fold just doi-sal to it and to the 

 spinnerets, and this fold is deeply indented in the median liru*. Its 

 free apex is directed ventro-caudad; its surface l)(>ai-s simple hairs 

 like those on the ventral surface of the abdomen, and the small circles 




302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF L^I'^y. 



iiulicato the insertion points of these liiiii-s. A luechan section of it is 

 represented in fig. 25, where the apex is at the left and the dorsal 

 border uppermost. It is covered by a ciiticula (Cut.), which is less 

 thick than that of the adjacent liody surface, beneatii which is a 

 hypodermis (Hyp.) considerably thicker than that of the rest of the 

 abdomen. The interior of the organ is a blood-space (Bl. Cav.), 

 shown by stipi>ling. containing neither glands nor muscles, though 

 muscles insert near its base. The colulus is equally developed in both 

 sexes. Thus it is a simple integumentary extension with a large 

 axial blood cavity. An organ of its volume must surely fulfill some 

 important function. Its thickened hypodermis might suggest sensory 

 nature. But I think it may be more likely a supplementary respira- 

 tory organ, for which the combination of relatively thin cuticula and 

 vascular space v/ould speak, and furthermore the trachete are relatively 

 poorly developed in this species. 



In Peucetia (Oxyopid) and Lathrodedus (Theridiid) it is about twice 

 as long as broad, shorter and relatively broader in Dysderids and 

 Argiopids. But in the Agalenids I have foimd the most interesting 

 relations : in Tegenaria derhamii it is a plate about twice as broad as 

 long, in Hahnia bimaculata a transverse plate eight times as broad as 

 its antero-posterior length, while in Agelena ncevia there are a pair of 

 small plates complete!}' separated in the mid-line by a little more than 

 their diameter and inserted well anterior to the roots of the anterior 

 spinnerets. The last case is interesting, for it exhibits the colulus in 

 a distinctly paired condition, the first case of such a relation 3'et known. 



We have next to consider the ontogeny of colulus and spiimerets. 

 Saleasky (1871) first proved that the appendages of the fourth and 

 fifth abdominal' appendages become the spinnerets. He found the 

 fourth appendages originate the anterior spinnerets, the fifth the 

 posterior, and that the median spinnerets "do not develop from 

 the abdominal feet, but appear between them" (I cite from Jaworow- 

 ski, for I cannot read the original Russian). This origin of the anterior 

 and posterior spinnerets has been confirmed by Locy (1886), Morin 

 (1887), Kishinouye (1890) and Korschclt (1892), while Barrois (1878), 

 Balfour (1880) and Schimkewitsch (1887) erroneously held that the 

 embryonic appendages disappear and that spinnerets are new for- 

 mations. The most detailed and satisfactory account is that of 

 Jaworowski (1895) of Trochosa. He found that after reversion each 

 appendage of the fourth and fifth abdominal segments is bilobed, 

 consisting of an outer sacculus (exopodite) and inner sacculus (end- 

 opodite); on the fourth segment the exopodites become the anterior 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 303 



spinnerets and the endopodites form a "rudimentary cribellum" 

 (more strictly, coluliis) that later disappear; on the fifth segment 

 the exopodites become the posterior spinnerets, and the endopodites 

 the median spinnerets. Wallstabe (1908) also found, in Agelcna, that 

 the median spinnerets arise by splitting off from the posterior pair. 



I am able on embryos of Loxosceles to essentially confirm the account 

 of Jaworowski and to trace the colulus to its adult condition. Fig. 17, 

 PI. XIII, represents that stage before revei"sion. when the maximum 

 number of abdominal appendages is present, and there are seen to be 

 six pairs of them, on segments 2 to 7 inclusive. The two most posterior 

 pairs are the smallest and are tempcjrary, for in the next stage, figs. 

 18, 19, of the beginning reversion they have disappeared and onlj' the 

 four anterior pairs pei"sist.' Later, fig. 20, the third and fourth paii"s 

 of these appendages become the largest. The process of revei-sion 

 brings them close together in the mid-line, and an interesting and 

 decisive condition is exhibited in the stage of fig. 21. The fourth pair 

 of appendages (P. Sp.) are approximated, and on the median side of 

 each is an elongated thickening of the hypodermis, the fii"st indication 

 of the median spinnerets (M. Sp.). Between the third pair of append- 

 ages (A. Sp.) there is an undivided, so unpaired, thickening, the pri- 

 mordium of the colulus (Col.). My observations differ mainly from 

 those of Jaworowski in finding the colulus to be unpaired at the start, 

 and in finding that the colulus and the median spinnerets behind it 

 do not arise as saccular endopodites of the embryonic aj^pendages, 

 but a.s thickenings immediately mesial to the appendages. This is 

 a rather important difference, for Jaworowski's description would 

 indicate a cleft condition of these appendages, such as is found in 

 Crustacea, while I do not find such a condition. In Loxosceles the 

 colulus and the median si)innerets would seem not to l)c jjarts of the 

 appendages, but immediately contiguous to them. Figs. 22-24 show 

 successive later stages, with lengthening of the three pairs of sj)in- 

 nerets and of the unpaired colulus, as well as the gradual extension 

 forward of the largest pair of spinning glands. 



The colulus, accordingly, arises a^ a hypodermal thickening between 

 the anterior spinnerets, and the median spinnerets from a pair of thick- 



' In thfi stape of figs. IS and 10 thero aro olovon woll-markod rfhdoniinal soc- 

 ment.s exclusive of the (-aiidal I()l)e. Tlie largest iiiimlier yet de.serilied lor 

 araneads Ls twelve, which with the .sj-ven of thi- ceplialotliorax makes a total 

 of nineteen. The- tliree most i)osterif)r of tliem togetiier wifli tlie candjil lohe 

 con.stitute a projectiriK pf)stal)<lomen, s<ich as Iuls heen descrilted for I'holrn.s 

 hv Clapari^'d*' (l.S<'»2) and Schinikewitsch (1887); this mav i>e compared with 

 that of Evagrus, fig. 28, PI. IV. 




304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [MaV, 



oninjis hetwcen the posterior spinnerets. Tlie only dilTerence in 

 Loxoscehs is that the coluhis has an unpaired oripn; but this differ- 

 ence does not hold in all cases, for in Trochosa (Jaworowski) the colulus 

 has a paired origin, and we have seen that in Agclcna the colulus is a 

 paired structure in the adult. Evidently colulus and median spinnerets 

 are honiodynamous. 



I have examined the cribellum in FilisUtla, Jlypliotcs, Uloborus and 

 Didijna. In the adult female of Filistata there is found a transversely 

 oval plate Ijetween the anterior spinnerets and somewhat anterior to 

 them. This plate (fig. 34, Plate Xl\') shows a pair of spinning plates 

 {Cr. PL), provided with numerous fine pores, and these spinning plates 

 are set in the much larger chitinous frame; on the anterior portion of 

 this frame are inserted haire (their insertion points indicated by the 

 small circles), which hairs are plumose like these of the venter and 

 differ from them only in their much smaller size. These relations are 

 essentiall}' such as Bertkau and othere have described. But an im- 

 portant relation seems to have been heretofore entirely overlooked. 

 The paired spinning plates, the cribellum proper, are finl}' the un- 

 covered free surfaces of a pair of appendages, the remaining portion 

 of which is sunk below the chitinous frame. Thus when one examines 

 on a cleared balsam mount the cribellum from the ventral surface, 

 one sees at a higher focus of the microscope only the frame and the 

 spinning plates ; but on deeper focus one finds a column of delicate 

 parallel spinning tubules, too fine to be represented on the scale of 

 our drawing, extending from each spinning plate to the anterior edge 

 of the frame. The lateral boundaries of these columns or append- 

 ages are shown in fig. 34 by the lines extending forward (upward) from 

 the spinning plates (Cr. PL) to the upper border of the frame. 



Further, each spinning plate shows a slight line of division at its 

 middle, from which point of indentation a line extends some distance 

 forward; this subdivision is probably due to the presence of a muscle 

 (as it is certainly in some other species), though I could not clearly 

 recognize a muscle. In other words, the spinning plates are merely 

 the free, uncovered apices of a pair of spinnerets, the greater region of 

 which lie covered by the cuticular frame. Or the relation might be 

 represented in another way: the cribellum of Filistata is a pair of 

 spinnerets mesially approximated, their glands opening distally (on 

 the spinning plates), and across and around these spinnerets has 

 developed a cuticular frame. 



This interesting relation in Filistata is further explained by a study 

 of the embrj'o shown in fig. 33, PI. XIX; no one has previously de- 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 305 



scribed an}- developmental stage of the cribelliim, for what Jaworowski 

 described as a ''rudimentary cribellum" in Trochosa was realh' a 

 coluliis. Fig. 33 represents a ventral ^•iew of the abdomen shortly 

 after reversion, and the abdominal segments are well pronounced. 

 The tracheal stigma (T. St.) is at the boundary of the third and fourth 

 segments. On the fourth segment are found the anterior spinnerets 

 (-1. Sp.), and between them a pair of large thickenings (Cr:), the paired 

 primordium of the cribellum. On the fifth segment are seen the 

 posterior spinnerets (P. Sp.), and between them the median spinnerets 

 as a pair of thickenings {M. Sp.). The resemblance of the cribellum 

 to the median spinnerets at this stage is very close, each consisting of 

 a pair of elongate ectoblastic thickenings near the mid-line; and the 

 cribellum is even larger than the median spinnerets. There can be 

 no doubt in this case of the homodynamy of cribellum and median 

 spinnerets. 



Fig. 36 shows a ventral view of the cribellum of a mature female of 

 Hi/ptiotes cavatus, and fig. 35 a similar view of that of Didyna volupis. 

 In both of these there is a distinct pair of muscles {M.) passing from 

 the spinning plate {Cr. PL) to the anterior edge of the cuticular frame. 

 In these species the spinning plate is not paired, nor yet is the deeper 

 portion composed of the ductules paired, in which points these species 

 appear much less primitive than Filistata. I find the cri))ollum of 

 Uloborus plumipcs to be very similar to that of Hyptioles. In Uypti- 

 otes the tracheal stigma (7". St.) is immediately contiguous to the frame 

 of the cribellum, while in Dirti/nn (fig. 35) they are separated. 



Thus we come to the conclu.'^ion that the spinnerets, colulus and 

 cribellum all develop from the fourth and fifth abdominal segments; 

 the antrrior spinnerets and cdIuIus or cribellum from the fourth, the 

 median and posterior s|)innercts from the fifth, as concluded l)y Jawor- 

 owski. The coluhis and cribellum arise as elongate thickenings mesial 

 from the appendages of these segments, the appendages becoming the 

 anterior and posterior spinnerets. Colulus and cril)ellum, as we have 

 seen, are in their development homodynamous with the median spin- 

 nfrcts of the segment behind them. Accordingly, colulus and cribel- 

 lum arising in a similar position in cf)rresponding segments nnist l)e 

 considered essentially homologous organs, conformal)ly with the view 

 of Rlackwall. whom Dahl (\W\, 100-1) ha.-^ followed. The ca.^e of 

 P^ilisldtn reii(lei"s it a strong probability that tiie colulus and cribellum 

 correspf)nd with the antero-me(lian spinnerets of Liphistius. The 

 c'ril)ellum is a less degenerate structure than the colulus, l)ecau,s^ it 

 still possesses spiiuiiiiL' irlands. is largei'. and is more fi('(|uen11y paiicd. 

 20 




306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [MiiV, 



These homologies might be shown tabiihiily as follows : 



Spinnerets. 



Liphistiida?. Antero-lateral. 



Aviculariidae. 



.\rane;E 

 vera?. 



-\iiterior. 



Antoro-mcdian. 



Colulus or 

 cribellum. 



Postero-latcral. 

 Posterior. 

 Posterior. 



Postero- 

 median. 



Median. 

 Median. 



2. Development of the Trache.e. 



liOcy (18S6), the firet to mention the development of these struc- 

 tures, simply states that "upon the ventral surface appear the infokl- 

 ings, from which are formed the tracheae." Schimkewitsch (1887) 

 is mistaken in saA'ing that Balfour (1880) demonstrated the origin of 

 tracheae and lungs, for Jialfour did not mention these organs. Schim- 

 kewitsch briefly mentions a stage in Lycosa before hatching where the 

 trachea? are already branched. Kishinouye (1890) writes: "In the 

 basal part of the second abdominal apjiendage, on the interior side, 

 another ectodermic invagination is produced. It assumes the shape 

 of a deeply invaginated tube and remains in this condition till after 

 the time of hatching. The appendage itself is not invaginated and 

 becomes from this time gradually shorter." Purcell (1895) states 

 that the "entapophyses connected with the second (tracheal) pair 

 of appendages become each drawn out into a long tube, to or near the 

 blind, inner end of wiiich the middle pair of endosternites is attached 

 in the adult. These long tubes are represented by the two large 

 tnmks which form the trachea? in the Attida?, and by the medial pair 

 of the four trunks which compose the tracheae in most other Spiders 

 (Agelenida?, Drassidse, Epeirida?, Lycosida?, etc.)."^ 



The preceding references to the tracheae are all brief and not illus- 

 trated by figures. Simmons (1894) goes into the subject somewhat 

 more fully; he finds the trachea? arising before reversion behind the 

 appendage of the third abdominal segment as a tubular, ectoblastic 

 ingrowth, and the tube so produced to have an irregular folding of its 



* My friend Dr. Purcell's brief but important preliminary paper deals mostly 

 with the homologies of the tracheie and cntopoyliyses, on which subject he has 

 now an extensive paper in press. I have not considered tlicsc relations In 

 Loxosceles I find just latero-posterior to eacli appendage of tlic frjur anterior 

 abdominal pairs a thickening whidi appears darker than the surroundings on 

 stained surface views, these being marked x in figs. 20-24 of PI. .XIII. I have 

 not determined whether these are apophyses or simple nniscle in.sertions. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 307 



wall, resembling to some extent the primary folds of the pulmonary 

 invagination, .\fter the stage of revei-sion he figures it as a simple 

 tube without brancliing. The most recent paper is that of .laneck 

 (1909); he did not see the earliest stages, but describes and figures a 

 stage shortly after hatching with the beginning of the l)ranching. and 

 an advanced stage after reversion. 



Accordingly, no one has figured the earliest stages of the trachcip, 

 and our knowledge of their development is very fragmentary. 



In Loxosceles the conditions are as follows, as observed in surface 

 views only. In the stages of figs. 17-19, Plate XIII, the appendages 

 of the third abdominal segment (3) are simple rounded protuberances 

 like those of the adjacent segments. Later, fig. 20, the appendage of 

 the third segment becomes flatter and less distinct, and its elevated por- 

 tion has taken on somewhat the shape of a quarter moon. At the 

 stage of fig. 21, completed revereion, no elevated appendages are found 

 in that segment, but at its posterior edge a transverse groove circularly 

 enlarged at each lateral corner (7\ St.). This condition pei^sists 

 through the stages of figs. 22 and 23, but at that of fig. 24 a pair of 

 lateral tracheal branches, recognizable by being filled with air, anil 

 marked 7V., are growing forward from the groove. The transvei"se 

 groove is evidently the stigma leading into the vestibulum; antl this 

 stigma, developing at the posterior edge of the third segment, evi- 

 dently arises behind the ajipendages of the segment. In the adult 

 a larger median and four pairs of smaller lateral tracjiea' extend fm- 

 ward from the vi'stii)ulum (fig. 27). 



A better knowledge can lie obtained fnuii the study <>f sections 

 whieh I have made of Thcridium. At the time of revei"sion (fig. 10, 

 I'l. .\II) the al)dominal ap|)endages show nuicli the same relation as in 

 />ojo.srr/r.s, though a narrow e]evate<iectoblasti(' ridgc^ joins (lie second 

 and third abdominal appendages {2. Ap., .i. Ap.). Sections of thi- 

 stage(figs. 1,2, PI. XI) show the still hfightcncd appendage (.:?. Ap.) 

 of the third segment l)ehind the pulmonary invagination and a distinct 

 cfciomic sac (dd.) a|)pertaining to it. Hut in subsecjuent stages 

 (figs. 5, 7. 9) the appendage of the third segment di.sappears, the 

 wiiole l)ecoming flush with the remainder of the surface of that seg- 

 ment and with«)Ut any process of invagination. It is not mitil aftt r 

 this appendage has disappeared entirely that the tracheal invagination 

 takes place, and evidently an in IjOXoncdcK behind the region where 

 that appendage was. The first appearance of the trachea* is seen in fig. 

 12, PI. XII; the pulmonary stigma (/'. .S7.) is at the posterior edge of the 

 second segment, the tracheal ('/'. .S/.) not near this, as was the append- 




30S ritOfKKUlXLi.S OK THE ACADEMY OF [MnV, 



age of its segment, but close to the spinnerets (Sp.) at llie posterior 

 edge of the third segment. The stigma (7\ St.) is a sHght transvei-se 

 groove, the trachea (7>.) itself is a conical plug of ectobla.st cells push- 

 ing into the archiccTclic space between hypodermis and mesoblast 

 (Mcs.). Successive later stages of the ectoblastic impaired ingrowth 

 {T. St.) are shown in median section in figs. 13-15; in these stages 

 it already shows the division into an outer vestibulum, transversely 

 widened, from the middle of which extends forward a single tracheal 

 trunk, all with a thin chitinous lining. Fig. 15 is the stage of hatching, 

 aged fifteen days, and shows just boliind the stigma the still solid 

 primordium of the colulus (Col.). 



Thus the appendages of the third abdominal segment disappear 

 entirely by merging with the circvunjacent hypodermis and without 

 forming any invagination. Quite independent of them and at the 

 ]^osterior margin of the third abdominal segment arises subsequently 

 an impaired ectoblastic inpushing, the vesti])uhmi, from the middle 

 ]iart of which grows forward a little before the time of hatching a single 

 tracheal trunk. I have not found any indications of folding of the 

 tracheal wall like the pulmonary folding, such as Simmons described, 

 and I would judge that the fold supposed by Simmons to be the trachea, 

 represented in his fig. 8, is not a tracheal invagination at all, but mereh* 

 the space dorso-posterior to the caudal lobe. 



Reference may be made, in passing, to the relative position of the 

 segments in the adult abdomen. The pulmonary stigma marks the 

 posterior border of the second segment, the tracheal stigma (or, in 

 Di])neumonids, that of the second pair of lungs) the posterior border 

 of the third segment, while the anterior and posterior spinnerets mark 

 the posterior regions of the fourth and fifth segments respectively. 

 In Loxosceles the third segment comes to occupy a large portion of the 

 venter, as shown in figs. 22-24, PI. XIII. In Filistata (fig. 33, PI. XI\^) 

 and Evagrus (figs. 30-32) the third segment is relatively much smaller 

 After the stage of reversion the first abdominal segment cannot be 

 distinguished externally from the second, and I am inclined to think 

 it enters mostly into the composition of the pedicel. 



3. Development of the Lung-hooks. 



A considerable amount of work has been done upon the development 

 of these organs since Saleasky (1871) showed that they are derived 

 from the appendages of the second abdominal segment. 



Bertkau (1872) found that new lamelUe are added during the growth 

 of the spider, each new one as an in\'agi nation from the region of the 

 lateral corner of the stigma. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 309 



Locy (1SS6) figured and descril^ed two rather late stages, in the earher 

 of which "the lungs appear as oblong plates of cells, the large oval 

 nuclei of which are arranged in parallel rows"; ultimately there result 

 bicellular interlamellar pillai-s. Schimkewitsch (1887) described briefly 

 a single rather late stage before hatching, the single figure of which 

 given by him by no means proves that "the lungs of the embryo of 

 Lycosa saccata consist of true trachea? disposed in bundles." Morin 

 ( 18S7) found the lungs to be formed from thickenings at the bases of the 

 appendages of the second aijdominal segment, these thickenings becom- 

 ing the opercula. What Bruce (1887) has described as a ])ulmonary 

 operculum and lung cavit}' seems to be nothing more, and Kishinouye 

 has previously made the criticism, judging from his figs. LXXIX and 

 LXXIX,' than the caudal lobe at the stage of rcvei"sion and the space 

 between it and the body wall; his account has accordingly no value. 

 Kishinouye (1890) found "in the basal part of the first abdominal 

 appendage of each side, there arises an ectodermic invagination whose 

 opening faces away from the median line. ... Of the wall oi the 

 invaginated pocket, that which faces the distal end of the appendage 

 is much thicker than the opposite wall, filling the interior of the 

 appendage. The cells compo.sing it become after awhile arranged in 

 parallel rows. Each two of these parallel rows adhering together 

 ))roduce the lamella? of the lung-book. The external epithelivmi of the 

 appendage whicji covers these lamelhr becomes the opercuhnn of the 

 lung-book after it is depressed in height." Simmons (1894) has given 

 the fullest account up to his time, and the one most fully illustrated by 

 figures. He described fully the method of invagination of the fii"st 

 abdominal appendage, found on its iimer (mesial) surface a series of 

 folds during this proce-ss of invagination, which folds lie believed 

 become the pulmonary lamella'. There is, iiowcvcr, a great hiatus 

 between the stagcw of his figs. and 7, and the early enibryonic folds 

 do not lie in the same position as tiic adult lamella'. Purcell (1S95) 

 found that "the earliest lung-leaves appear on the exposed posterior 

 sides of the appendages before the latter have commenced to sink 

 below the surface into the IkkIv, and completely outside of the basal 

 sack," and, like ."^innnons, he concludes these become the adult lamella', 

 but without tracing completely their later history. Wallstalx' (liK)8) 

 says he can corrol)orate Siniiuon's results, but does not enter into 

 details. 



.Jaworowski(1894) presented a full account, well illustrated. l)ut did 

 not describe any stage earlier than one considerably later tlian reversjion. 

 He b"gan with a stage where beneatii the fii-st abdon.inal app( lulagc 




310 PROCEEDINGS OK Tnr: ACADKMV OF [May. 



tlipiv is a saccular iii\a<;iiiati(>ii, from whidi proceeds doi-sally a tulx' 

 diviiliiip; into several l)rai)cli<>s: "it is, however, cl(>ar that the so-called 

 lunps of the spider in the eiiil)ryoiKil coiidition are repeatedly branched 

 traciie:e. " These tracheal tubes ultiuiately disappear, and the de- 

 finitive pulmonary lamelhe arise from parallel outgrowths of llie vesti- 

 bule (\drraum). 



Finally, the latest memoir, that of .Taneck (1900) on Li/cosd, is 

 the most extensive, and he had not only an excellent series of stafrcs. 

 but he also made use of wax reconstnidions. He describes thoroujilil\' 

 tlie infoldinjr of the fii-st abdominal ajjpenda^ie, finds that it develops 

 a series of pi-onounccd folds on its inner (mesial) stu-face, thus far 

 essentially con-oboratinfj; the observations of Sinmions and I'urcell. 

 but. contrary to these writers, he finds these embryonic folds disappear. 

 "Especially important is the demons! I'at ion that the folds of text 

 fifiure 16. which many authoi"s refer directly to the hiiif^-leaves,have no 

 relation. at all to the lun^ . . . and the fold foi'ination of the.se stajifs 

 <how themselves to be not even forerunners of the lung-leaves." The 

 pulmonary lamelhe arise as secondary folds from a compact lung ma,ss. 



It will be seen that there are considerable differences of opinion, out 

 of which it is hard to reach the true stale of affairs. My observations 

 are in entire disagreement with the (•(inclusions of Schinikewitsch and 

 Jaworowski, that the lungs arise Jis tul)ular tracheie, and I believe 

 that Jaworoski misinterpreted embryonic dorso-ventral muscles. 

 Then neither of these authors described the earliest stages. With 

 I'mvell, I find folds apjiearing u))on the jiosterior surface of the pulmo- 

 nary appendages before it invaginates; but, in op])osition to him and 

 Simmons, and in agreement with Janec-k, 1 find these folds are only 

 temporary, and that the definiti\(' lamella' aiise from a disassociated 

 solid cell ma.ss. J..ocy, Morin and Kishinouj^e were correct , so far as 

 their observations went. 



In Thcridium, al)out the stage of reversion, the pulmonaiy stigma 

 {l\St., fig. 1, PI. XI) is present as an ectoblastic invagination just behind 

 the appendage of the second abdominal .segment, and on the posterior 

 face of this apjKMidage are present three folds (Lam. /). Those embry- 

 onic folds may be called the primary lamclla\ In a later stage, shown 

 in fig. 2 (a surface view of this stage is represented in (ig. 10, IM. .\ 11), the 

 pulmonary stigma (P. St.) has become deeper, and the primary 

 lamella' {Lam. 1) more pronounced. Later, fig. 3, the pulmonary sac 

 or chamber has become a narrow space by the further insinking of the 

 pulmonary appendage. Two pi'imarv lamelhe can be still distinguished 

 (Lam. I) but tliey have become relatively smaller; fig, 4 is a section 




1909.] NATURAL SCIEN'CKS OF PHILADF:LPIIIA. 311 



of the same appendage but to one side of the stigma, where there is a 

 closed tube beneath the outer eetoblast formed bj' overgrowth in 

 the manner described by Janeck. Fig. 5 represents a stage still later ; 

 the whole pulmonary appendage has become flattened down to the sur- 

 face of the abdomen, the primary lamellae {Lam. 1) are not more than 

 two in number and only slightly pronounced, while the anterior end 

 of the pulmonary ingrowth is growing larger in the cephalad direction. 

 In fig. 6, cut to one side of the stigma (so comparable with fig. 4 of an 

 earlier stage), the anterior region of the solid ingro^\•th is divided into 

 two parts, the beginning of the first two true or secondary lamella^ 

 (Lam. 2). The slightly later stage of fig. 7 is particularly instructive. 

 The abdomen now makes a short angle with the cephalothorax, so 

 that the layer of eetoblast {Ed.) most to the left in the figure is the 

 lining of the cephalothorax. The pulmonary stigma (P. St.) occupies 

 the same relative position as in fig. 5, but the pulmonary sac or cavity 

 (P. Cav.), which is lined on all sides by eetoblast, has become more 

 voluminous and anterior extensions of it lead into three secondar}" 

 lamellae {Lam. 2). There is no longer any trace of the primary lamellae. 

 These had Ijecome gradually shorter in the successive stages, shown 

 in figs. 2, 3, and 5, being only faintly marked in the last. There 

 is no trace of them in the stage of fig. 7 ; were they present they should 

 show just above the stigma (P. St.) on the mesial (right) side of the 

 ectoblastic operculum. The primary lamclhe have not become the 

 secondary lamellae {Lam. 2), for the latter are directed cephalad and 

 arise, as we have seen, from the sohd anterior portion of the jiulmonary 

 primordium. These results are in essential agreement with tliose of 

 Janeck, though in the form studied by him, Li/cosa, the primary 

 lamelUe are larger and more luuiiorous. and by tlie fusion of their free 

 ends with the mesial wall of the Iniig cavity give rise to a series of small 

 cavities lined by eetoblast whicli ultimately clo-^e up. The primar}' 

 lainelke do not become the hunclla' of the adult, and, as .Janeck has 

 indicated, would seem to have no more morjihological imi)ortance than 

 the slight integumentary folds found on the mesial side of the proxi- 

 mal portion of the cephalothoraral appendages. 



The history of the secondary or definitive lamella* is as follows. 

 Arising from the solid anterior region of the lung tissue, as shown in 

 figs, fi and 7. tiiese lamella* become larger and more cylindrical witli 

 narrower lamina {Lam. 2, fig. 8). Successive ones are formed from the 

 solid mesial wall of the hmg ingrowtii. and in their growth they press 

 into an archiccelic cavity (/?/. Car.) between the eetoblast (lu't.) and 

 mesoblast {.Mes.). In fig. 9, IM. XII, three of these secondary lamella* 




312 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY t)E [M^O') 



(Lam. 2) are .shown; each contains a narrow canal communicating 

 posteriorly with the main pulmonary cavity {P. Car.) and their wall is 

 lined by a very flattened epithelium; where the nuclei are placed there 

 is a heightening of the cytoplasm around them, and the figure shows 

 clearly the biserial arrangement of the nuclei, at certain intervals 

 liicellular pillai-s occurring between adjacent lamellip. The archiccrlic 

 space around these lamelht has become a vascular cavity {Bl. Car.), 

 shown by stippling. A cross-section of the lung region of this stage 

 is shown in fig. 10; in the vascular cavity (BL Cav.) he the laniellse 

 {Ixim. 2) which are seen to be flattened tubes. The last stage I have 

 been interested to examine is that of fig. 11, one of about nine days 

 (hatching usually takes place in the fifteenth day). Five lamelhv are 

 developed, but owing to obliquity of the section none are seen in their 

 full length.'"' ^lesial to them (to the right in the figure) there is an ecto- 

 blastic layer (Ed.), from which further lamella^ will be formed. The 

 relation of the bicellular pillars to the lamella' and to the blood cavity 

 {Bl. Cav.) is perfectly clear. 



Thus each lung-book arises in the region of the aj^pendage of the 

 second abdominal segment. Immediately behind this appendage devel- 

 ops an ectoblastic invagination, the stigma and pulmonary chamber, 

 and into this the appendage invaginates. There are temporary lamella 

 on the posterior surface of this appendage, and these come to lie within 

 the pulmonary chamber, but they disappear entirely and from a 

 thickened cell mass of the anterior region of the invagination the 

 secondary or definitive lamella? develop. The appendage thereby 

 forms both operculum and secondary lamella^. 



4. Genetic. Relations of the Tkache-e and Lung-books 

 OF Araneads. 



In the Aranea? theraphosa there are two paire of lung-books and no 

 tracheae, and this is also the case in the Hypochilida among the Ai-a- 

 neae verse. Nothing is known of the development of these organs 

 in these forms, except my oljservation that in Evagrvs the lung-books 

 are derivations of the second and third abdominal segments. All 

 other Araneae verae with two exceptions have one pair of lung-books 



* It will be noted that all the drawings on Plate XI are made to the same scale, 

 yet in some eases, a.s on comparison of t\ii. .3 witli figs. 2 and .5, tlie parts and nuclei 

 of one embryo may be much smaller tlian in another eml)ryo of approximately 

 the same age. This is because there are great individual differences in the size 

 rjf eggs, so of the size of the cells that compose them. The number of cells 

 appears to be constant for a particular stage, but the size of the cells depends 

 upon the size of the embryo. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 313 



and an unpaired or paired (DA'sderida') tracheal stigma; the excep- 

 tions are the Caj)oniidffi with four tracheal stigmata, but no lung-books, 

 and the Pholcidai with one pair of lung-books, but with no trachea' 

 or only very rudimentary ones (Lamy, 1902). 



There has been nuich discussion as to the genetic relations of these 

 two organs. They have been so fully and ably compared by Laniy 

 that it is not nece.ssary to more than summarize his account. Since 

 the time of Leuckart (1849) all writers on the sul)ject seem to conclude 

 an essential homodynamy of lung-books and tracheae, save Berteaux 

 (1S89), who, however, reached quite an erroneous idea of the structure 

 of the pulmonaiy lamelkc. But three different opinioas have arisen, 

 namely, whether the lungs are modified trachese, the trachea) modi- 

 fied lungs, or both derived from a common ancestral organ. That 

 the lungs are modified trachea; is held by Leuckart (1849), Ley- 

 dig (1855), Bei-tkau (1872), Schimkewitsch (1884, 1887). Croneberg 

 (1888), Schneider (1892), Sinclair (1892), v. Kennel (1892). Jaworow- 

 ski (1894), Lamy (1902), and Janeck (1909). That the trachea' are 

 derived from hmg-books is maintained by Lankester (1881), ]\IacLeod 

 (1884), Kingsley (1893), Simmons (1895), Laurie (1894), Wagner (1895) 

 and Kisliinouye (1890) — this group of naturalists being mainly influ- 

 enced by the Limulus-ancestry theory. Finally, Weissenborn (1886) 

 and Bernard (1893) hold that lung-books and trachcie are divergent 

 derivatives of a common ancestral organ, in the one ca.'^e from trachf^ae 

 of the type of Pcripatus, in the other from acicular glands of Annelids. 



In their adult conditif)n lungs and trachea.' are both branched cavities 

 lined by cuticulated hypodermis. In the lung-books the branches 

 are flattened lamella; placed parallel, in the trachea' the branches are 

 usually cylindrical ramifying tubes. But sometimes the main tracheal 

 trunk ha.s no branches, and sometimes the l)ranchcs are arranged in 

 parallel bundles, all of which details have been described by Lamy; 

 further, 1 have noticed in Loxosrclrs that the large median tracheal 

 trunk is excessively com|)re.ssed, quite as much as a pulmonary lamella. 

 Further, trachea- and lung-books may replace each other in both the 

 second and third abdominal segments. Tlu-rcfore there are no radical 

 anatomical ditTerences between the two. 



Ontogenetically i)oth arise as ectobla.«tic invaginations, and there is 

 a vestibulum in each case. But there are four differences in the develop- 

 ment: (1) In the case of the lung-books the alxiominal appendage 

 invaginates and the wall f)f the j)art so invaginated IhhukIs the main 

 pulmonary chamber, while the external surface of the ai)i)en<^age 

 becomes the operculum. In the case of the trachea the abdominal 




314 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



apppiula<re docs not iiivafriiiato, but disajipeare by merging witli the 

 surrouiuliiig cctoblast, the trachea arises after it has disappeared, 

 tlie tracheal vestibulnm is not foi-nied from tliis aiipendage, and there 

 is no opercuhmi. (2) The jMihnonaiy stigma arises immediately 

 liehind it^s appendage, but the tracju^al stigma develops more or less 

 behind the original position of the apjK n(lag(> of its segment. (3) 

 The ))ulmonary lamelhr arise from a thickened solid cell mass, which is 

 not the case with the tracheal l^ranches. (4) The trachea^ a))pear 

 somewhat later in the ontogeny. 



Thus while the anatomical differences are not great the ontogenetic 

 are considerable. The most imjiortant difference is that the lung- 

 books develop from appendages. On the basis of this particular 

 difference we must conclude that there is no complete homodynamy 

 lietween the two sets of organs, but an inc()m];)lete resemblance. The 

 trachea exhibits a simpler method of formation, but this in itself need 

 speak no more for primiti\-(>ness than for degeneracy. The present 

 evidence does not clearly indicate which is the more primitive. 



5. LiMULUS AND THE ArACHXIDS. 



To one question, however, we may take a more decided stand — that, 

 namely, of the reference of aranead lung-books to the branchiae of 

 Limulus. Since Straiis-Durckheim (1829) first insisted that Limulus 

 is much more closely related to Arachnids than to Crustaceans, this 

 view has grow^n steadily in support, especially in the hands of E. Van 

 Beneden (1871), A. Milne-Edwards (1873), Barrois (1878), Lankester 

 (1881), Patten (1890) and Kingsley (1893). And there can be little 

 question that Limulus and the Arachnids are related, from the corre- 

 spondence in segmentation, arrangement and number of appendages, 

 endosternal and entapophj^sial structures, central nervous and vascular 

 systems and other orgaiLS, all of which have been carefully compared 

 by Lankester and Kingsley. The principal difference between the 

 two has been considered the respiratory organs, and Lankester sought 

 to obviate this by reasoning that the lung-books of Arachnids arose by 

 the invagination of lamelligerous })ranchial appendages, and that the 

 tracheae are in their turn modifications of lung-books. This view 

 seemed to be confirmed by the accounts of the development of arach- 

 nidan lung-books as given for spiders by Kishinou3^e, Purcell and Sim- 

 mons, and for the scorpion by Brauer (1895)." 



* Brauer'.s study did not determine tlie first origin of tlio pulmonary lamelhc, 

 lor there is a gap between the .stages shown in his text figs. 156 and c. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 315 



Simmoas ia«isted on the following points: (1) that primary folds 

 appear very early on the posterior surface of the invaginating pul- 

 monary appendage of the spider, resembling very closely in position 

 the gill-leaf development of Li?7}idus as described by Kingsley; and 

 (2) that such folds become the pulmonary lamella* of the adult spider. 

 But Janeck and I demonstrate that these primary lamellae of the spider 

 are only temporary, with probably no more significance than the folds 

 on the mesial surface.*! of the cephalothoracal appendages, and they 

 certainly do not become the definitive lamella* of the lung-book. The 

 truth is that the secondary pulmonary plates of the spider do not 

 arise from folds on the outer surface of an appendage, but in a differ- 

 ent position from a solid cell mass after the appendage has invagi- 

 nated. 



Therefore there is nothing in the ontogeny of the lung-books of spidei^s 

 similar to the development of the gills of the Xiphosura, beyond that 

 they are both connected with abdominal appendages; consequently 

 no embryological ground for deri\ing the lung-l)ooks from gills. 



Further, objections of a theoretical nature may also be made against 

 the derivation of the lung-books from gills. Fii-st. the direct change 

 of a water-breathing organ into an air-breathing one wovild be almost 

 without parallel; at least I cannot recall any instance of this kind in 

 animals. Second, granted that Limiilus is genetically related with 

 arachnids, a view to which I subscril^e. what reason have we for 

 assuming that Limulus is the more primitive form? The only good 

 anatomical argument for this view is that Limulus retains through life 

 six pairs of abdominal ajipendages, and also a pair of ne|>hri(lia. The 

 general reason for the primitiveness of Limulus is its marine habitude, 

 witii the assumption that the ancestors of most groui)s nuist have 

 originated in the seas. The latter assiunption lacks all solid lia^is. 

 and has been opposed by Simroth (1S91) and myself (190H). Hut the 

 true arachnids are essentially terrestrial, quite as nuich as the insects 

 are, and though a few have taken to a(|uatic existence, such as the 

 Hydrachnids an<l Argi/ronda, all of them breathe atmospheric air. 

 I'urther. true araneads occurred in the Carboniferous, in times as early 

 as the first fossil traces of Linniloids, while terrestrial scorpions existed 

 in the Silurian. Tliese facts would indicate that the true arachnids 

 originated on the land. It would, accordingly, seem to me that if 

 Limulus ])(' related to the arachnid stock, and this .srenis well estal)- 

 lished. that the former represents a line of descent that has taken 

 secondarily to aquatic life; and for this view would sj)eak also its exist- 

 ence in shoal waters, and its behavior in laying its eggs close to the 




316 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



land. The positiiin I have takoii is in diroct opj^osition to the general 

 one as voiced In- Korschelt and Heider. "that the Arachnida have 

 developed from the Paleostraca by ada]italion to land life." 



6. The Taxoxomic Raxk of the Theraphos.e. 



By quite general consent arachnologists consider the Araneai thera- 

 phosae to be more primitive than the Aranese vera\ I do not know 

 whether this conclusion has at anv time been critically discussed, and 

 in the present place I shall touch on it only briefly and tentatively, for 

 I feel my knowledge of the families of spiders is too deficient for me to 

 attempt to make any positive decision. 



The Theraphosae differ from the Aranese verse in having the chelicera 

 directed forward instead of downward, in possessing no trachesc, and 

 in having no maxillary plates on the pedipalp (except in certain 

 Atypidae). 



We cannot say whether the character of the position of the chelicera 

 is more primiti\-e in the first case than the other. The lack of maxillary 

 plates might or might not be due to degeneration, and we have seen 

 that there is no good basis for deciding whether lung-])ooks are more 

 primitive than trachese. 



Thus these anatomical differences in themselves furnish no good 

 answer to our ciuestion. The Liphistiids in their general structure 

 appear decidedly primitive, with their four pairs of functional spin- 

 nerets and their segmented abdominal terga; yet Simon (1908) in his 

 recent description of the male of Liphistius hirmanicus has shown 

 that the palpal bulbus is much more complex than in other Therapho- 

 sids. 



Excluding the Liphistiidse, the other families of the Theraphosae, 

 namely, the Aviculariidseand the Atypidie, would seem to be degenerate 

 in one respect, that of the spinnerets. For they possess neither colulus 

 nor cribellum, and almost all the Aviculariids lack also the anterior 

 spinnerets. The great length and appendage-like appearance of the 

 posterior spinnerets in the Aviculariids might not be a primitive 

 character, but be due to compensatory growth on account of the loss 

 of the anterior spinnerets. The general small size and compact group- 

 ing of the eyes might well be the result of the usual tubicolous mode of 

 life. Further, there are certain Aranese verse (such as Filistala) 

 which show the male copulatory bulbus less complex than in the 

 Theraphossc. 



In the loss of the spinnerets of the fourth abdominal segment, 

 in the small size of the eyes, and in the occasional great volume of 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ol7 



the body the Aviculariidfr at least would seem to be consideial)ly 

 modified. The)' might well be considered a modified branch which 

 has to great extent replaced spinning by burrowing- Few of them 

 construct true snares, and then only simple ones. Thus they might 

 stand in somewhat the same relation to the Araneae verse, as the 

 Ratitae do to the CarinatiP among birds. 



While this hypothesis of the systematic rank of the Aviculariidie 

 may appear reasonable, we can hardly at the present time decide the 

 rank of the Liphistiidae and Atypidir, or indeed decide whether the 

 Theraphosre represent a homogeneous group. 



Literature List. 



H.\LFoi'R, F. M. 1880. Xote-s on the Development of the .Vraiieina. (^uart. 



Jouni. Micr. Sci. (2), 20. 

 B.\iu<oi.s, J. 1878. Swr hi d6veloppenient des Araignee.'^. Journ. Anal, et 



Phy.><ioh 14. 

 Benedk.n", E. v.\n. 1871. De hi Phue que les Liiiiules doiveiit ocruper dans 



la classification des Arthropodes, etc. .\nn. Soc. I^ntoni. Ji<'lfj;i(nii', 1.^. 

 Bernard, H. M. 1893. .\dditional Notes on the Origin of the Trachea' from 



Setiparous Glands. -Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. (6), 11. 

 Berteau.x, L. 1889. Le poumon des .Arachnide.s. La Cellule, .5. 

 Bertkau, p. 1872. Ueber die Ke.spiratiousorgane der .\ranren. .\nli. 



Natiirgesch., :iS. 

 Idem. 1882. I'eher das Crihellum und f'alamistrum. Ih'nL, IS. 

 lil..\rKWAi,i., J. 1839. On the mniil)cr and st rnctnrc of the mamnmla- rMi|)lo\ id 



l)y ."^pidi'rs in the process of sj)iiming. Trans, i.inn. Soc. lA>nilon, is. 

 Bhaieh, \. 189.5. Bcitriigc zur KenntnLs der Entwieklungsgescliidite des 



Skorpions. 2. Z«-it. wiss. Zool., 59. 

 Bull K. .V. T. 1887. Olxservations on the Embryology of In.sectsand Araclmids. 



Baltimore. 



("l.\p.\rkde, E. 1S()2. Kecherclies sur revolution des .\raignecs. I'trecht. 

 Cro.neber*;, .\. 1.S88. li<-itrag zur Kenntniss des Bancs der Pseudoscorpione. 

 Bull. .S>c. Imp. .Natural. .Moscou (2), 2. 



Dahl, V. 1901. leljcr <len Werth des ('ril>clhmis und ("alamistrums. etc. 



SitzungsixT. fles. .Naturf. l"r., I^-rlin. 

 Idem. VM)\. I'ebcr djus System <ler ."^i)innen (.Vranea'). Sifzungsber. (Ii's. 



Natur-forsdi. Fr. lierlin. 



.Iankck, U. 1909. Die Entwicklung der Blattertradiecn und der Trachecn 



bei den Spimien. .Jena. Zeit. 14. 

 .IwvoHowsKi, .\. 1S94. Die JOnt wicklung der .sogennannten Lungen bei den 



.Vnichniden, etc. Zeit. wiss. Zool., .'>.S. 

 Idem. I89.J. Die Entwickelung des Spinnapparates bei Tror-hosa singoriensis 



Laxm., etc. .lena. Z<'it., 30. 



Kennel, J. v. 1892. Die Ver\vandt.HcliaftHverhaltni.sse der Arlliropoden. 



Sdiriften Natur. (le.s. Univ. Dorpaf, (». , 



Kin<;si,kv, J. S. 1893. The Embryology of Linmius. Part 2. .lotirn. Morpli., s. 

 KisHiNoi'YE, K. 185K). On the Development of .\raneina. Journ. Coll. Sci. 



Japan, 4. 

 KoiisrHEi.T, E., und K. Heipeh. 1892. IxOirbuch der vcrgleichi-nden Entwick- 



hmgsgeschidite der wirliellosen Thiere. 2. Jena. 



Lamv. E. 1902. Uedierchrs anatomi(|ues sur les trachZ-es des .\raignees. 

 Tht-se. Paris. 




318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Mf^V, 



Lankesteh, E. K. ISSl. I.iimilus an Aracluiiil. tiuart. Jourii. Mirr. Sci. 



(•2).2\. 

 Lathie. M. KSU4. On tlie Mi)rpliolof;y of tlic IVdipalpi. Jouni. lAim. Sui-., 



London, 25. 

 Letckaut, E. 1849. Uebor den Ban und die Hcticutunp: d<'r .sop. Lungeii 



l)ei den .\rachniden. Zeit. wis,s. Zool., 1. 

 Leydig, F. 1S.55. Zum feineren Hau di-r Artluopodcii. .Miillcr's .\r(li. 

 LocY, \V. .\. lSS(i. Observations on the Developniciit of .\t:elena nivvia. liull. 



Mus. Zool. Harvard, 12. 



MacLeod, J. 1884. Reeherehes sur la .structure et la signification de I'appareil 



respiratoire des Araehnides. .\reh.de Biol., 5. 

 Me.nge, a. 1843. I'eber die Lebensweise der Arachniden. Neueste Schr. 



Naturf. Ges. Danzie, 4 

 Milxe-Edw.\rds, a. 1S7.'?. Heclierrlies sur r.\natoniie des Linuiles. Ann. 



Sei. Nat. (.5). 17. 

 Montgomery, T. li., Jh. 19Uli. The Analysis of Racial Descent in Animals. 



New York. 

 MoHiN, J. 1887. Zur Entwicklungsgeschichte der Spinnen. Biol. Centralbl., 6. 



P.\TTEN, \V. 1890. On the Origin of Vertebrates froMi .Vrachnids. (^uart. 



Journ. Micr. Sci. (2), 31. 

 PCKCELL, F. 189.5. Note on the Development of the Lungs, Entapoplivses, 



TracheiT and Genital Ducts in Spiders. Zool. Anz., 18. 



S.\LENSKY. W. 1871. (Development of Araneads. Russian.) Sapi-ski Ges. 



Natvirf. Kiew. 32. 

 ScHiMKEwiT.scH, W. 1884. Zur Entwicklungsgeschichte der Araneen. Zool. 



.\nz., 7. 

 Idem. 1887. Etude sur le developpenient des Araign(5es. .\rch. de Biol.. .56. 

 ScHXEiDEK, .\. 1892. Melanges araclmologiques. Tablettes Zoologiques, 



Poitiers, 2. 

 SiMMOX-s, O. L. 1894. Development of the Lungs of Spiders. .\mer. Journ. 



Sci. (2), 48. Tufts College Studies, 2. 

 Simon, E. 1892. Histoire Naturelle des Araignees. 2'"^ed. 1. Paris. 

 Idem. 19()8. Etude sur les araehnides du Tonkin. Bull. sc. France et Bel- 



gique, 43. 

 SiMHOTH, H. 1891. Die Entstehung der Landtiere, Leipzig. 

 Si.scLAiR, F. G. 1892. A new Mode of Respiration in the Myriapoda. Ann. 



Mag. Nat. HLst. (6), 9. 

 Stevenson, C. \V. 1908. On tlie Spinning Organs and Architecture of Evagrus, 



a Theraphosid .\ranead. Biol. Bull, 1.5. 

 .STR.\i:.s-I)rRCKHEiM. 1829. .\ppendix to Vol. 6 of French translation of Meckel's 



Comparative Anatomy (fide Lankester). 



Thorell, T. 1870. Remarks on .S\Tionyms of European Spiders. Upsala. 



Wagner, J. 1895. Beitriige zur Phylogenie der .Arachniden. Jena. Zeit., 29 

 Wallstahe. p. 1908. Beitriige zur Kenntnis der Entwicklungsgeschichte der 



Araneinen. Zool. Jahrb., 26. 

 Wei.ssenborn, B. 1886. Beitriige zur Phylogenie der .\rachniden. Ibid. 



ExPLAXATiox OF Plates XI, XII, XIII, .\'I\\ 



,\11 the figures have been made by the autlior witii tiie aid of the camera 

 lucida, and in eadi the anterior region is directed upwards, In the lettering of 

 the plates the following abbreviations have been employed: 



/-//, abdominal segments 1 to 11. .1. Sp., anterior .spinneret. 



/ (jljj C;., ganglia of the preceding. Bl. Cav., blood cavity. 



2 Ap.-S A p., appendages of abdomi- C'hel., cheliceron. 



nal segments 2-5. C. L., caudal lobe. 



.In., anus. CcbL, coelom. 




1909.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 319 



Col., colulus. P. Cac, ectoblastic cavity ot luiic- 



Cr., cribellum. book. 



Cr. PL, spinning plate of cribellum. Ped., pedicel of abdomen. 



Ect., ectobla.st. P. Sp., posterior spinneret. 



//., heart. P. St., pulmonary stigma. 



L. 1-L. 4, ambulatory limbs 1-4. Pul., lung-l)ook. 



L. 1 G.-L. 4 G., ganglia of the pre- /?. if., rectal l)ladder (stercoral pocket). 



ceding. Ros., rostrum. 



Lnm. 1, primary lamella of lung-book. Sp., spinneret. 



Low. ^,. secondary- lamella of hmg-book. Sp. GL, spiiming gland. 



M ., nmscle. Tr., trachea. 



.1/e.s., me.soblast. T. St., tracheal stigma and vestilnilun). 



M. Sp., median spinneret. x., ectoblastic thickening of mideter- 



.V. C, nerve cord. mined significance. 



Plate XI. — Tlieridium tepidariorum. — Oblique longitudinal sections through 



the lung-book region, all drawn to tlie same scale. 

 Fig. 1. — .\l)out OS hours. 

 Fig. 2. — About 127 hours. 

 Figs. 3, 4. — 121 iiours; fig. .3 tiirougii the stigma, and fig. 4 somcwliat 



lateral to it, of the same huig-l)ook. 

 Fig. .5. — Of anotlir-r embryo of 121 liours. 



Fig. 6. — Of another embryo of 121 hours, to one side of the stigma. 

 Fig. 7. — 14.5 hours. 

 Fig. 8. — 14.5 hours. 



I'l.\te XII. — Tlieridium tepidarioruni. — \\\ the figures except 1(> drawn to the 



.same scale. 

 Fig. 9. Longitudinal section of lung-l)o<)k, al)out 1.5(l liours. 

 Fig. 10. — Ol)lif|ue cross-sect i(jn of lung-liook of an emijryo of the same age. 

 Fig. 11. — Longitudinal section of a lung-liook, the lamella- not showni in 



their full length, aljout 218 hours. 

 Fig. 12. — Longitudinal section througli puhiuinary and traclwal stigma, 



14,5 hours. 

 Fig. 13. — Median section of tracheal stigma. His hours. 

 Fig. 14. — Median section of tracln>a, about 21.S iiours. 

 Fig. 1.5. — -Median .section of trachea, 1.5 days. 

 Pig. 16. — Obli(|ue dorso-iateral surface view of eml)ryo of al)uiil 127 liours. 



I'l.ATK XIII. — Loxosceles. — Figs. 17-21 are surface views of whole-stninod' 



eml)ryos drawn to the same scale, in figs. 17-1*.> llie cvtra-cmliryonii' 



area being stippled. 

 Fig. 17.— Postero-ventral, 1«K) hours (H days). 

 P'ig. 18. — I'ostero-vtiitral. 17(( hours (7 d:iys). 

 Fig. 19. — Postero-Iateral, 170 hours (7 davs). 

 Fig. 20. — Lateral, 218 hours (9 days). 

 Fie. 21. — Vr-ntral. 



Fig. 22. — .\l»domen, ventral, 20,5 hours (II d;iys). 

 Fig. 23. — .Mxlomen. ventral, 14 <lays. 



Fig. 24. — .\bdr)nicii, %cntral. 20 <lays, the hynoilfrnuil hairs not drawn. 

 Fig. 2.5. — .Median longitudinal section of the colulus of an adult, its free apex 



at the left ;ind il- dorsal surface abo\e. 

 Fig. 2<>.- Aentrai \ iew of colulus and spinnerets of an .idult feniali-, from 



an unstained balsam mount. 

 Fi;j. 27. — .Adult vestibulum and nM)ts of main trac-heal branches, caustic 



pot fish preparation. 



I'l.ATK .\1\'. Kv.'iurii.x, Filistat.'i, Dictyna, Hyptiotes. — P'igs. 28-32 are drawn 

 to the same scale. ' 



Fig. 28. — Evn'jruft, lateral vii-w of embryo Iwfore reversion. 




320 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Fig. 29. — KmfjniK, ventral view of alxloiiKMi sliortly alter reversidii; the 

 dotteil line in the upper portion of the liirure indicates wlien- tlie eeplialo- 

 thorax had been broken oiY and a part of the al)donien removed. 



Figs. 30-32. — Evagrus, ventral \ie\vs of abdoniina of sueeessive later stages, 

 fig. 32 of an embryo of 19 days (just iiatehing). 



Fig. 33. — Filistata, ventral view of alidonien of enil)ryo sliortly after rever- 

 sion. 



Fig. 34. — Fi7('.s7o/«, ventral view of cribelluni of adult female, i)alsani mount. 



Fig. 35. — Dicti/na rohipis, ventral view of eribellum and tracheal vestibulum 

 of adult female, balsam mount. 



Fig. 3G. — flijptioles cavalus, ventral view of erilK'llum of adult female, balsam 

 mount. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 321 



THE P0LYCH5:T0US annelids dredged by the U. S. S. "ALBATROSS' OFF 



THE COAST OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA IN 1904. L SYLLID5;, 



SPHaiRODORID^:. HESI0NID5: AND PHYLLODOCID^. 



BY J. PERCY MOORE. 



Until in 1904 the U. .^. Bureau of Fisheries, the Univei"sity of Cali- 

 fornia, and Stanford University joined forces in initiating an investi- 

 gation of the marine ]:>iology of California upon a comprehensive 

 scale, mast of the faunal work done on the invertebrates of that region 

 had been limited to the littoral zone, and much of it had been of a local 

 or desultory character. 



Early in that year the Fisheries steamer "Albatross" was detailed 

 to investigate the deeper waters off the coast of the southern half of 

 the State. From March 1 to April 15 collectioas and physical oljser- 

 vations were made at 139 dredging statioas in the region south of 

 Point Conception, chiefly in the vicinity of San Diego and among the 

 Santa Catalina and Santa Barbara Islands. Between May 10 and 

 June 15, 128 dredging statioiLS were established in Monterey Bay, 

 making 267 in all. The full data relating to these statioas have been 

 <'()iHpiled and j)ublished as Fisheries Document Xo. 004, Washington, 

 1! !()(). 



-■Vniong the material gathered is a rich but rather indifferently 

 preserved collection of Polyfhifta wliich was sulimitted to the writer 

 for study, especially througli the interest of Prof. Charles II. Clilbert, 

 of Stanford University. Coming from the deeper waters, this collec- 

 tion admirably supplements the shore Cf)JIe('tions from the vieinity of 

 San Diego and Monterey Bay contained in the Stanford Univei>!ity 

 Museum and already reported upon in these Proceedings. It had been 

 (•X|)eetefl that the bulk of the roUeetions would be made up of known 

 shore forms, l^ut the large number of undeseril)ed species encoiuitered 

 in the families already studied has dispelled that anticipation. Types 

 of new species are to be deposited in the National Museum, and sets of 

 cotypes and duplicates, as far as possible, also in tlie coi'ipcrating 

 Universities and this .\cademy. 



SYLLID^. 

 Syllis alternata M'xin-. \ 



This species is tjie most c(»mmon sylhd in the collection and occurs 

 31 




322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jlinc, 



at depths of fnnn 83 fathoms to 1,400 fathoms and chiefly anum<i- the 

 Santa CataHna and Santa Barbara Islands. The largest and best 

 preserved specimens are 40-44 mm. long and have 125 to 137 segments, 

 but some are only 12-20 mm. long. In some the eyes, and particu- 

 larly the posterior pair, are enlarged until those on each side nearh^ 

 meet. There are indications that this condition ma}'- l)e correlated 

 with bathymetrical distribution, the approximation l^eing most marked 

 in the examples from the greatest depth and least in those from more 

 shallow watere. 



WTien contracted the notocirri exhibit a distinct thickening abo\-e 

 the base, when extended they taper nearly imiformly from the 

 base, but in all cases the alternation in length is obvious. Some ex- 

 amples ha\'e the anterior twenty or so segments eacli marked by a 

 dusky band, not narrow and sharply defined as in S. armillaris, but 

 broad and ill defined. The accessory tooth of the seta appendages is 

 frequently much worn or nearly obsolete, causing the tips to appear 

 simple. In no case do the appendages exhibit any tendency to unite 

 with the stems, as in Pionosyllis donijdUi Johnson and other species of 

 the Synsyllis group. 



The chitinous lining of the i)harynx terminates in a thickened, some- 

 what crenulated border, behind which is a circle of soft papilhe and 

 dorsally a large, blunt, conical tooth. In the retracted state the tooth 

 lies in somite III, the gizzard in XI-XXVII, the oesophageal loop in 

 XVIII and the cfeca in XVII and XVIII. 



S. californica Kinberg may be this species, Ijut no certainty can be 

 reached from the brief diagnosis. The Eusyllis tubifex Gosse reported 

 by Treadwell from near Monterey Bay is very probably this species. 

 S. violaceo-flava Gruhe is another related species from the Philippines. 



Stations 4,326, off Point La Jolla, near San Diego, March 8, 280 

 fathoms, green mud; 4,400, between vSan Diego and San Clemente 

 Island, April 8, 500 fathoms, green mud; 4,420, off San Nicolas Island, 

 April 12, 33 fathoms, fine gray sand; 4,427, off Santa Cruz Island. 

 April 14, 447 fathoms, black mud and stones; 4,430, off Santa Cruz 

 Island, April 14, 197 fathoms, black sand and pebbles; 4,574, off Cape 

 Colnett, Lower California, October 8, 1,400 fathoms. 

 SylliB (Ehlersia) heterochaeta »\>- nov. PI. XV, figs. 1-4. 



Described from the type only, a small complete specimen 9 mm. long, 

 with a width, in the region of the gizzard, of body of .4 mm. and 

 between tips of parapodia of .7 mm. Segments 80. 



Prostomium (PI. XV, fig. 1) pentagonal, with very unequal sides, 

 the posterior longest and nearly straight, the lateral shortest and 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323 



convex, the anterior meeting in a rounded apex ; about twice as wide as 

 long. Eyes three pairs, forming a triangular group on each side; 

 the middle pair with distinct lenses and much the largest, but not more 

 than one-ninth the width of the prostomium and situated about their 

 diameter from its lateral border; the posterior also with lenses, di- 

 rected dorso-caudad, about one-fourth the diameter of the middle pair 

 and situated medio-caudad of them ; the anterior* mere specks of pig- 

 ment without lenses situated in line with the posterior pair and equally 

 distant from the middle pair. Ik'hind the posterior pair is a large 

 black blotch on each side. Paljjs prominent, projecting straight for- 

 ward, separate to the base, about one and one-half times as long as the 

 prostomium, broad at the base where they equal one-half the width 

 of the prostomium, thence diverging slightly and tapering to the rather 

 slender, bluntly rounded tips. ]\ledian tentacle arising posterior to 

 middle of prostomium between middle pair of eyes, lateral tentacles 

 close to base of palps laterad of anterior eyes; both slender, little 

 tapered, subequal, reaching about one- fifth of their length beyond 

 palps, strongly moniliform except at base, with twenty to twenty-two 

 joints. 



Peristomium (PI. X\', fig. 1) a short but distinct ring bearing two 

 pairs of tentacular cirri similar to cephahc tentacles but with distinct 

 ceratophores, similar to the cephalic tentacles; the dorsal equal to 

 the latter and with twenty or twenty-one joints, the ventral two-thirds 

 as long with fourteen or fifteen joints. Segments all distinct, short, 

 imiannulate, sUghtly depressed, increasing in width to near the middle. 

 I'ygidium a broadly expanded, furrowed ring whose cirri have been lost. 



Parapodia (PI. X\','fig. 2) of a length generally about one-third the 

 width of thf'ir segments. Neuropodia thick, little compressed and 

 little tapered, divided distally into a low postsetal lip which ciu'ves 

 over and encloses the ends of the acicula, and a sligjitly longer presetal 

 lip, the supraacicular portion of which is a small, blunt, projecting 

 lobe forming the doi-so-distal angle of the neuropodium. Posteiiorly 

 this lobe is much reduced and the postictal lip beconirs longer and 

 more pointed. Xeurocirri nearly free from l)ase of iieuropodi;i ; 

 their cirrophorcs small and indistinct; styles slendei-, tapered, i)lunt. 

 longer than neuro|)odium and with a swelling on the doi-sal side al)o\ c 

 the base. Posteriorly they l)ecome more slender. Xotocirri strongly 

 moniliform and xevy distinctly jointed (thougli the joints l)econi( 

 cylindrical rather than si)heroidal or ellij)soidal) even to the caudal 



't 



' Oniitt«'<l frotn tlic fipiirc. 




324 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [.luuc, 



ciul; cirrophoivs sliort but ficiiciall.N- distinct. Those on II and \' 

 are tlie lonp;ost. about one and ono-lialf tinip-s the doi-sal tentacular 

 cirrus and exceeding the greatest width of the body; they have twenty- 

 four to twenty-seven joints; III and IV are slightly longer than the 

 doi-sal of I and have nineteen to twenty-two segments. The I'eniaining 

 notocirri are more or less regularly alternately longer and shorter even 

 to the caudal end, the longer in general equalling about three-fourths 

 tiie ^^'idth of their segments and the shorter aliout three-fifths their 

 width. Those in the middle f)f the body ha\'e about sixteen or seven- 

 teen (fig. 2) and eleven to thirteen (fig. 2a) joints respectively. 



Acicula (PI. XV. fig. 2) of anterior parapodia in a row of six or seven, 

 the ends of which appear in a groove at the doi"so-distal angle of the 

 neuropodia. They are pale }t11ow, rather stout, tapered and end in 

 blunt points, slightly kno]jl)ed and variously slightly bent or even 

 hooked; middle neuropodia have three or four and posterior only two. 



Setae in rough, irregular subacicular fascicles of about seven rows 

 of three or four each. They are colorless with rather long, curved 

 shafts slightly enlarged at the distal end (PI. XV, fig. 3) to form 

 simple, oblique articulations roughened by a few minute points. 

 Appendages of all except the seta? of the doi-sal row comparatively short 

 (fig. 3), two to four times the length of the oblique end of shaft, scarceh"" 

 curved and not hooked at the tip, which is a simple point below which 

 is sometimes an obscure accessory tooth; margin strongly toothed. 

 Setae of dorsal series and sometimes one or two of the next row more 

 slender (PI. XV, fig. 4) with very long, slender, straight appendages 

 usually about four times the longest of the lower rows, with blunt 

 ends (fig. 46). and finer marginal denticulation (fig. 4a). Such seta^ 

 continue to the caudal end and are similar on all segments. Many of 

 the posterior parapodia alsf) bear a single stout, nearly straight, spine- 

 like simple seta, as long as the shafts of the others, in the dorsal part 

 of the bundle; it is probably to be regarded as a prolonged aciculum. 



Proboscis (PI. XV, fig. 1) protruded about one-third of its length 

 beyond palps, broad cylindroid, diameter exceeding prostomium, 

 cuticle thick, smooth and entire at orifice ; dorsal tooth stout and blunt, 

 probably from wear; behind this is a circular fold bearing eight (or 

 nine?) distant, soft, rounded papilla?. Gizzard reaches from IX to XXI 

 and has thirty-seven rings. Colorless in alcohol. 



The only specimen was taken at Station 4,423, off San Nicolas Island, 

 April 13, 339 fathoms, gray sand, black pebbles, shells. 



Syllis (Ehlersia) anops Ehlers, from the Straits of Magellan, is a 

 nuich more elongated species with the anterior and posterior dorsal 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 325 



setse appendages differing in form. S. sinyulisctis Grube, from the 



Philippines, also belongs to the subgenus Ehlersia, but has onl}' four 



eyes. 



Pionosyllis typica sp. nov. PI. XV, figs. 5-7. 



l\»rni moderately slender, widest in the region of the gizzard, from 

 which it tapers regularly to the caudal end. The well-extended and 

 complete type has 96 segments and is 31 mm. long and 1.2 nun. in 

 diameter at XX\'. 



Prostomium small, somewhat sunken into peristomium, about one 

 and two-thirds times a^ wide as long, the greatest width posterior, 

 the sides and front broadl}' and regularly rounded. Eyes two pair.'^. 

 dark brown, small, anterior pair close to lateral border and about 

 midway of length of prostomium ; posterior pair little more than one- 

 half diameter of anterior and slightly beiiind and within them. A 

 pair of faint ridges run from the posterior eyes to the posterior border 

 of the prostomium, nearh' completing with the eyes a V-shaped figure. 



Palps completely separated to base, bent somewhat \entrad, broadly 

 triangular vNith rounded angles, about a.s long as prostomium and 

 basal width about two-thirds length. Median tentacle arising between 

 posterior eyes, ai)out one and one-fourth times as long a< prostomium 

 and palps, slender and slightly tapered, divided into about twenty- 

 four articles, distinct distally Ijut obscure toward the l)ase. not strongly 

 moniliform. Lateral tentacles similar, arising from a slight dcpi'cs.sion 

 jast anterior to anterior eyes, nearly three-fourths as long as median 

 and reaching nearly as far. divided into nineteen or twenty joints. 

 Mouth rather large with prominent crenulated lips. 



Peristomium short and partly crowded beneath prostomium. but 

 visible for entire width of doi-sum. Tentacular cini similar to tentacles. 

 the doi"sal slightly exceeding median tentacle in length, with about 

 twenty-six joints ; the ventral somewhat shorter, with twenty joints. 

 Body segments nearly terete. remarkal>ly regular but separated by 

 shallow. incf)nspicuous furrows; except for a few.><Jiort anterior ones they 

 are half as long as wide or more. Irom themaxinuun width at the end of 

 the first fourth they ta[)er regularly to the pygidiinn. which is a small 

 ring and bears one of a pair of cirri as long as tlie hist nine segment> 

 and resembling the |)()sterior neurocirri in being scarcely articulatf d. 



Parapodia (PI. W. fig. o) situated at ventral level of Ixtdy. well 

 .separated throughout, slender, ratlier conspicuous in ventral view \n\\ 

 largely concealed from the dorsum. 'I'he neuro{)odia are slightly com- 

 pressed and taper slightly to the bluntly rounded and rather abrufxtly 

 contracted end, which i^ divided into two .-mall lips .separated l»y « 




326 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [.luiU', 



deep cleft, from wiiich the setie arise and into which the tips of tiic 

 acicula enter. Neurocirri arise ohHc|uely from ba.sal hall' of neurojx)- 

 divun. cylindrical or slifjhtly tapered to hhmt tips reaching well beyond 

 end of neuropodium, especially on antericM- segments. Notocirri 

 arise from rather prominent l)ut indistinct cirrophores immediately 

 above ba^se of neuropodia and all at same level. Styles all approxi- 

 mately of one length, about two-thirds width of bod}', the anterior 

 and alternate ones scarcely longer than the othei"s, but the alternate 

 ones carried erect. Anterior notocirri are somewhat articulated, 

 similarly to the tentacles, but this character becomes more obscure 

 toward the base and on more caudal cirri; most of them are rather 

 stout, rather quickly tapered and more or less transversely wrinkled, 

 rather than jointed. Near the caudal end they become much reduced 

 in size. 



Acicula nimiber from five or six anteriorly to two or three posteriorly : 

 pale yellow, tapered, the ends blunt and very slightly knobbed (PI 

 XV. fig. 6). 



Setae generally about twelve or fifteen, in oblique, spreading, fan- 

 shaped tufts; colorless, the stems long, slender, curved, the ends 

 (PL X^^, fig. 7) slightly enlarged, oblique, with four or five just per- 

 ceptible teeth on the convexity of the front face and a slight shoulder 

 behind. Appendages moderately long, varying from three times 

 diameter of distal end of stem in ventral to five times its diameter 

 in dorsal setae, except at the posterior end, where all are shorter. 

 They (fig. 7) are of peculiar form with very oblique base, beyond which 

 the width remains nearly uniform; distally abruptl}^ truncated and 

 ending in a stout oblique spur, above which is a delicate curved tooth 

 often nearly -worn away; a very fine marginal fringe ending in a more 

 prominent tuft of hairs. 



This species stands closer to the type species than any of the three 

 already described from the Pacific coast of North America. Johnson's 

 species, P. elongata, appears to be more properly referred to Synsyllis 

 \'errill. Much confusion in the usage of the germs exists among authors . 

 Station 4,430, off Santa Cruz Island, April 14, 197 fathoms, black 

 sand and pebbles. Two specimens. 

 Pionosyllis gigantea Mwire. 



About forty anterior segments of a specimen of this large species 

 from an unknown locality. As noted above it is doubtful if this species 

 really belongs to Pionosyllis. 

 Trypano8ylli8 intermedia Moore. 



Owing to tlie deficiencies of the type the original description of this 

 species is incomplete and may be added to here. 




19U9.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 327 



A complete specimen with 2o0 much contracted segments is 60 mm. 

 long, with a maximum body width of 3.2 mm. at XXX. Prostomium 

 subquadrate, slightly wider than long; with a deep postero-median 

 dorsal incision and furrow. Palps completely separated to base, 

 slightly longer than prostomium, somewhat divided into basal and 

 terminal portioas ; the former somewhat swollen and the latter slender 

 and abruptly bent ventrad. Median tentacle five or six times length 

 of prostomium and composed of fifty-six very short joints; lateral 

 tentacles about one-half as long, with thirty-five to thirty-eight joints. 

 Eyes on each side nearly or quite coalesced. Tentacular cirri arising 

 beneath prostomiimi. the doi-sal nearly ecjual to median tentacle, 

 with fifty joints; the ventral slightly shorter than lateral tentacle, 

 with about thirty-five joints. Xotocirrus of II the longest, about 

 <jne-third more than the median tentacle, with sixty-four to sevent}' 

 joints; that of III scarcely shorter and of IV two-thirds as long as II. 

 Following this the notocirrophores of odd-numbered segments are at a 

 slight!}- higher level and bear slender styles as long as the width of 

 their segments and with as many as sixty or seventy very short joints; 

 those of even-numbered segments have styles about two-thirds as 

 long. Pygidium a tapered ring bearing a pair of slender cirri as long 

 as its diameter and with twenty-five to thirty joints. 



A pharynx dissected had tiie circle of teeth in somite \'III; there 

 are eighteen to twenty slender comjjressed soft papilhe and apparently 

 as many teeth, but tlic latter are so much broken that this cannot be 

 determined with certainty. Gizzard in XVIII to XXIX with thirty- 

 five distinct and seven or eight indistinct rings. 



The anterior tliirty-five or forty segments are icddish-hrow ii alxove 

 with pale intersegmental lines. 



One specimen each from stations 4,417. off Santa Barbara Island, 

 .\pril 12, 2'.) fathoms, fine yellow sand, rock and coralline; and 4,420, 

 off San Nicolas Island, A|)iil 12. 2'.>1 fathoms, gray mud and rock. 



Odontosyllis phosphorea •'I', nov. PI. XV, ttifn. »-lu. 



Ki)itokous, sexually mature examples, unfortunately much dis- 

 torted ami broken. The type and largest specimen lacks some <tf the 

 caudal segments and measures 23 mm. long, 2..') mm. in maximum 

 width between tips of parapodia and 1.5 nun. in width of body only. 

 The anterior region of twenty-three .■segments is 4.(3 mm. long, the 

 middle of fifty-one segments provided with swinnning notopodial seta- 

 is 17 nmi., and only four segments of the posterior region remain» mak- 

 ing seventy-eight .segments in all. A smaller, more extende<l uiul 




328 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juiie, 



posteriorly complete cotyjie is 18 mm. loiij;. tlu> anterior region boiii'r 

 5 mm. and the i^osterior 5.5 mm. Segments 2;^ + 26 + 31 = 80. 



Form rather short and stout, widest at the middle, the ventral sur- 

 face flat, the dorsal more or less arched, most so in the anterior region, 

 which is nearly as high as wide; the micUlle and posterior regions 

 dejjressed. 



Prastomium small, short, bent downward, subprisniatic with 

 rounded angles, about two-thirds as long as wide and deeper than long, 

 the front abruptly vertical, somewhat excavated for the tentacles. 

 Eyes two pail's, moderately large with large lenses, brown, occupying 

 sides of prostomivun, the anterior pair directed chiefly forward, the 

 posterior upward. Though themselves distinct they are enveloped 

 in an irregular curved, broad band of black pigment which occupies 

 most of the lateral and posterior dorsal part of the i^rostomium. The 

 three tentacles arise close together, the median more dorsal, from 

 a depression in the middle of the frontal face, small, slender, lui jointed, 

 subequal, somewhat exceeding length of prostomium. Palpi directed 

 ventrad, thick, fleshy separated knobs. 



Peristomium achsetous, largely concealed by prostomium, onl}^ a 

 very short doi'sal ring and larger lateral j:)rominences showing. Two 

 pairs of tentacular cirri, unjointed but transversely wrinkled, the 

 ventral about as long as width of prostomium, the dorsal about one 

 and one-half times as long. The nuchal fold arises from the dorsiun 

 of II and is a prominent, semicircular, deeply pigmented, free, mem- 

 branous flap, with a basal width equal to one-half the segment and 

 covering the posterior part of the prostomium as far as the anterior 

 eyes. Somite II and remaining setigerous segments are imiannular 

 and well marked b}'' irregular furrows, differing in the several regions 

 as indicated above. Pygidium a small, low, dome-shaped ring having 

 a pair of short, thick fusiform cirri. 



Parapodia, owing partly to the contraction of the specimens, very 

 little prominent, those of the anterior and posterior regions imiramous 

 (PI. XV, fig. 8), of the middle region biramous (fig. 9). Neuropodia 

 short, stout, with blunt ends, terminating in two short, thick, rounded 

 lips, of which the postsetal is usually slightly the longer; both termi- 

 nating dorsally at the acicula, which lie sUghtly below the dorsal border 

 of the neuropodia. In the middle region the neuropodia (PI. XV, fig. 9) 

 are somewhat longer than in the anterior region, but (otherwise similar. 

 The notopodia are low, flattened protuberances pushed out anterior 

 to the seta tuft into a pointed, conical acicular process. In the 

 posterior region the parapodia are neuropodial only and arc gradually 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 329 



reduced in size. Xeurocirri arise from beneath the liase and rathci- 

 on the posterior face of the neuropodia, and have somewhat swollen 

 bases and a small, slight!}' distinct distal piece reaching about as far 

 as the end of the neuropodium. They are similar on all parapodia. 

 Notocirri arising from low swellings (but not distinct cirrophores) 

 on the dorsum well above the parapodia. Styles rather long, slender 

 and unjointed, but more or less wrinkled. The first (on II) is longer 

 than the others, about twice the doi-sal peristomial cirrus and about 

 one and one-third the width of the segment; that of III is less than 

 two-fifths, of IV about three-fifths and of V about seven-eighths of 

 that of II; remaining notocirri are alternately longer and sh(jrter. 

 those in the middle region being respectively about eciual to three- 

 fifths and one-third the width of their segments. 



Xeuropodial acicula generally two in anterior, three in middle 

 region, moderately stout, straight, tapered, the ends slightly knobbed. 

 Notopodial aciculum single, slender, gently tapered and curved, the 

 distal end slightly knobbed and often bent at the end. Xeuropodial 

 setaB entirely subacicular, in dense fascicles of several ranks, rather 

 numeroiLS, usually ten or eleven ranks of three or four each. They are 

 colorle-ss, rather stout, with curved stems becoming thicker distally 

 and ending obliquely in a blunt, slightly rf)ughened point (PI. X\', 

 fig. 10). Appendages short l)road blades varying in length only from 

 once to twice the width of the distal end of the stem, the longest (K-cur- 

 i"ing in anterii)r parapodia and the ventral part of the bundles, termi- 

 nating in a i)n)minent hook, well below which is a stout spur. In the 

 posterior regif)n a solitary slender, curved simjjle seta also ocrui"s in 

 each fascicle, but has not been detected elsewhere. 



A dissected proboscis exhibits the characteristic thick bow and fold 

 of the chitinous rim, but the mmiber and character of the teeth is not 

 evident. The gizzard of the same specimen has sixty-seven annulations. 



Color pale yellow with a conspicuous spot on the prostomium. the 

 nuchal fold and narrow intei"segmental transvei-se lines black; in the 

 middle and posterior regions ever>' fourth one of the latter is much 

 wider and den.ser, and at these deeply pigmented furrows the freciuent 

 fractures of the Ixxly-walls always occur; appendages colorless; 

 eyes brown. 



The label reads: *' I*h(»sphorescent annelids caugjit at surface. Avalon 

 Hay, Catalina Ishunl, evening, April 11, 1!M)1. Albatross." Professor 

 William S. Hitter writes that a phosphorescent annelid swarms at the 

 surface of San Diego liay. Doul)tless this is the species here descril>ftd. 

 It is a frequent characteristic of species of this genus to be luminiferous. 




330 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [.luiic 



Syllid pen. ot sp.? 



A Hinall syllid. pr(il)al)ly a tnio Sjillis or Eiisi/llis. tVoni an uiikiiown 

 station, cannot he idontifioil, and its charactoi-s arc put on record for 

 the use of a futnre descriher. 

 Length 11 nun., segments 72. 



Prostoniiuni nearly twice as wiile as long, roinided laterally, slightly 

 convex anteriorly and nearly straight postei'iorly. Eyes very imper- 

 fect (probably abnormal), represented by a minute speck of pigment 

 close to the base of the palp on one side, and a larger but still a ery snuill 

 eye with a lens on the other side. No trace of tentacles remains, but 

 it seems very im)iro]:)able that they should be normally absent in a 

 syllid of this type. Palps ]irojecting foiward and curved downward 

 pistally, free, broad, sulx'lliptical, flattened, their length nearly ecpial 

 to width of prostomium. and their combined width exceeding that of 

 prostomium. 



Peristomium very short above, swelling to a Inroad lip at the sides 

 and below. An incomplete, strongly moniliform, dorsal tentacular 

 cirrus with seventeen joints remaining exists (jn one side, but the others 

 are lost. 



Body strongly arched anteriorly, but more flattened behind. First 

 twelve segments very short and se])arated l)y deep furrows, the othei"s 

 becoming longer until in the middle region they are one-fourth as long 

 as wide. Pygidium a very short ring with a slight median lobe, bear- 

 ing a pair of very long, slender, moniliform cirri as long as the la^^t 

 twelve segments and consisting of more than forty joints; in addition 

 there is a very minute unjointed median cirrus. 



i'arapodia small, the neuropodia cylindroid. little compressed, 

 truncate, the distal end divided into nearly equal, short, thick, rounded 

 presetal and postsetal lips. Neurocirri rather slender, tapered, un- 

 jointed, blunt, reaching slightly beyond end of neurocirri. Xotocirri 

 arising from prominent swellings and small cirrophoras well ahaxc 

 neuropodia; very long, flexible, very strongly moniliform, alternately 

 longer (on odd-numbered segments) and shorter (even-numbered 

 segments). At the anterior end mostly lost; on middle segments the 

 short ones exceed the width of their segments and have thirty-five or 

 forty joints, the long ones are twice the width of their segments and 

 have fifty to fifty-five joints. Even near the caudal end they are not 

 much shorter, the longest having forty or more joints and the short 

 ones twenty-five or thirty. 



Acicula three or four in a row ending at the dorso-latcral angle, pale 

 yellow, tapered to blunt, slightly knobbed tips. Setae few, seldom 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 331 



exceeding ten or twelve and oftener fewer, colorless, transparent, with 

 rather stout, curved stems, terminating in enlarged, oblique ends 

 which appear to be Cjuite smooth. Appendages usually about twice 

 as long as the oblique end of stem, with straight, simple points and 

 strongly developed marginal fringe. Parapodia of the last thirty 

 segments at lea.st bear a single simple spine which projects j^rominentl}- 

 from the dorsal part of the bundle. It has about twice. the thickness 

 of the compound setae, is very slightly curved and ends in a blunt 

 point. The most posterior project very prominentl}' to quite the 

 length of the compound seta?; further forward they are less conspicu- 

 ous, and anterior to XL none can be detected. 



Proboscis retracted and on account of the opacity and pigmentation 

 of the anterior end difhcult to see. It appears, however, to have a 

 smooth margin. Gizzard in XV to XXII, with thirtj'-four rings. 



Color anteriorly pale brown owing to nimierous granules in the 

 integument, passing through yellow into a nearly colorless posterior 

 end. 

 Autolytus -I' ' 



A single example of a stock regenerating Ijeiiind and incomplcto 

 from the loss of many of the appendages. Length Ki nun., width 

 lictween tips of parapodia 1.4 mm.; segments 85 witii a narrow 

 regenerating bud of 13 segments. 



Prostomium broadly ellip.soid, anterior and posterior borders nearly 

 straight, sides prominently convex; with the palps as seen from above 

 the •>utline nearly circular. Eyes two pairs with len.ses, the anterior 

 nearly black, diameter about one-fifth width of prostomium, located 

 midway of the length of jirostomium at its lateral bordei-s. looking 

 outward and a little downward and forward; posterior brown, aljout 

 one-half diameter of anterior, with which they are in contact on the 

 doi-sfnpostero-median side. Palps completely coalesced to tips, but 

 iiaving a depre.ssed median line and i>arely jierceptible distal emar- 

 gination. .Median tentacle lost. l)ut one lateral tentacle present, arising 

 just above ba.'^e of palp nearly in line with anterior eye, coai*se, little 

 tapered, its length six or seven times prostomium and j)alj)s, but nnich 

 twisted and |)robably incomplete. 



Peristomium bearing large cirrophores, but only the ventral style 

 of one side remaining, this being one-half the length of the lateral 

 tentacle. Anterior segments imperfectly separated, the finrows 

 shallow; width increit'^ing for al)out twenty segments to the gizzard 

 region and tlien nearly uniform to the end. A wedge-shaped u^edian 

 elevation with apex at the j)eristomium extends over the first six or 




382 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [J 11 IK', 



seven segments, and is boiuuletl by the divergent epaulettes which ex- 

 tend caudad from the peristomium and have pigmented Ixirdei-s. Tiic 

 regenerating region is quite small, barely a mm. in length and al)out 

 one-fourth that in width, and ends in an unsegmented blunt -pygidiuni 

 without cirri. 



Parapodia, as usual in tiie genus, short, thick, ventral in position, 

 lacking free nevn-ocirri which become coalesced with the neuropodia to 

 form opaque ventral swellings; neuropodia terminating in short, thick, 

 presetal and postsetal lijjs. Xotocirri with large cirrojihores, often as 

 large as the neuropodia; styles unjointed, coai"se and similar to the 

 tentacle, very easily detached and many mi.ssing. That of II very long, 

 about twice the lateral tentacle and reaching to about XX; that of 

 III about one-half as long; the others much shorter, the longest about 

 one-half III or about width of body. 



Acicula four (on one parapodium studied), tapered to blunt points. 

 8et£E forming rather dense tufts, colorless, the shafts rather stout, 

 strongly curved, distally enlarged and near the articulation denticu- 

 lated on both faces. Appendages little longer than oblique end of 

 shaft, triangular with bidentate ends, the anterior tooth larger and 

 somewhat hooked. 



N^o teeth visible at end of retracted proboscis, oesophagus scarcely 

 looped; gizzard in XX-XXVIII, apparently about thirty-three 

 rings. No color. 



The single specimen comes from an unknown station. 



SPH^RODORID^. 



Although at least five generic names have been applied to the few 

 known species of this very small family, it seems that the fornxs possess- 

 ing compoimd setae still lack proper generic designation. Indeed, if 

 the synonymies published by European authors be correct, all of these 

 names are based upon a single type species. As each was originally 

 proposed for a single species, there is no difficulty about fixing the types. 

 Three names were proposed in 1843: Ephesia Rathke for E. gracilis 

 Rathke (n. sp.), Spluerodorum Oei"sted for S. flavum Oersted (n. sp.) 

 and Bebryce Johaston for P. peripatus Johnston (n. sp.). Ephesia 

 was previously used by Hiibner in 1816 for a genus of Lepidoptera, and 

 Bebryce Ls preoccupied by Bebryce Philippi, 1842. Xothing in the 

 descriptions of the types serves to differentiate them ; they all certainly 

 have simple seta and lack spherical organs other than those directly 

 related to the parapodia. Two years later Johaston, discovering 

 the earlier iwe of Bebryce, substituted Pollicita, but admits the prob- 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 333 



able identity of his type species \nth Sphcerodontm flarum Oersted. 

 Perrier in 1897 proposed Hypephesia for species with simple setae, 

 naming H. gracilis as the type. 



Levinsen employs Ephesia to include both typical species with 

 simple setse like E. gracilis Rathke and forms with compound setae 

 like E. peripatus Gaparede (non Johnston), while SpJuerodorum is 

 retained for those species which bear several series of spherical append- 

 ages with granular contents and which have the seta? compoimd, like 

 S. claparedii Greeff. St. Joseph, on the other hand, prefers to sepa- 

 rate the genera on the ba.sis of setae characters, ranging under Ephesia 

 species with simple setae and under Sphierodorum those with the setae 

 compound. Finally Perrier recognizes the three generic types apparent 

 in the family, retains Levinsen's application oi Sphwrodorum but divides 

 his Ephesia, unfortunately apphnng that name to the E. peripatus 

 group and giving a new name (Hypephesia) to tTie typical E. gracilis 

 with simple setae. 



It is evident, therefore, that Sphccrodorum is the proper name for 

 the papillated forms with simple setae only, and, so far as I am aware, no 

 distinct tenable generic names are in existence for the two tvpes with 

 compound setae. 



The present collection includes a species of eacli of the three types 

 known in the family, but all are provisionally placed in the genus 

 Sphtcrodorum, a proceeding that may be justified because the known 

 nmnber of species is so small that no confusion will result from plac- 

 ing all in a single genus, because increased knowledge of the species of 

 the family may make known forms posse.'^sing intermediate characters, 

 and because the relationships of the Spha^rodorida^ have been -so 

 varioiisly conceived that it is po.ssible that other generic names have 

 Ih'cii f>vorlof)ked. 

 Sphaerodoram papillifer ^r- nov. J'l. .\V. tttr'. li, 12. 



Moderately slender, tapering both ways, the greatest width nearer 

 the anterior end, subtereto, but somewhat depressed and flattened 

 below. I.^ngth of tyi)e 'M) nun, ; maxinunn diameter at end of anterior 

 two-fifths 1 mm.; segments 102. (Mlicr spcciiiicus one or two milli- 

 meters shorter. 



Anterior en<l blunt, the prostomiuni and jx'ristomium ictradcd aiid 

 difficult tf) distinguish, the former a very short, simple, slightly domed 

 lobe studded with papilla* and without definite appendages, though 

 three papilla- longer than the others may rei)resent the tentacles and a 

 pair of mammilliform papilhe the palps. I'cristomium a simple) not 

 clearly difFerentiated ring stirrounding the mouth and bearing a jiair 




.334 PROCEEDINGS OF THK ACADKMY OF [JvUie. 



of small globoid cirri. On the dorsuni is a <"Sliai)('(l iriou]) of coii- 

 sj)icuous black eye-spots which extend on to somite II. Typically 

 there seem to be two pairs, but frequently there is an additional i)air 

 of spots or a median spot anteriorly. 



Segments short and uniannular or slightly and irregularly annulated, 

 mobile and irregularly contracted in the different regions; posteriorly 

 becoming very small and tapering into a minute jn-gidium which bear 

 a pair of spherical cirri with small apical papillae and in addition a 

 mimite median cirrus or papilla. Surface, particularly toward the 

 ends of the body, bearing numerous small, pointed or somewhat davate 

 retractile papilla? which are evidently of a sensory nature and become 

 larger in the neighborhood of the parapodia. 



Parapodia (PI. XV, fig. 11) rather inconspicuous, lateral, jjrobably 

 uniramous. They consist of a slender, conical setigeroiLs neuropodium 

 roughened with small, conical, sensory papillsB becoming longer towards 

 its distal end, which terminates in an especially prominent one or 

 postsetal lobe. A much stouter process arising from the postero- 

 ventral region of the neuropodium, having nearly the structure of the 

 sensory papillae, is undoubtedly the neurocirrus. Quite distinct from 

 and well doi-sad of the neuropodium is a spherical prominence (noto- 

 podimn?) bearing on the middle of the distal face a small clavate 

 cirras. The spherical body is largest and most coaspicuous on middle 

 segments, but the distal cirrus is larger, both relatively and absolutely, 

 at the ends. These organs are enveloped in a thick cuticle and the 

 interior is filled with a snarl of slender, elongated bodies and opaque 

 brownish granules, giving to the entire organ its characteristic opacity. 

 A short distance farther doread is a clavate papillae similar to that 

 borne by the spherical body l)ut more slender and elongated, especially 

 on middle segments. 



Xeuropodial aciculum single — a rather stout, yellowish, tapered 

 spine ending in a simple, bhmt, somewhat projecting point. Setae 

 few, about four to six, projecting unequal distances in an irregular 

 fascicle in each neuropodium (fig. 11). All are simple, colorless, rather 

 .stout, the shafts straight or nearly so, the ends expanded into a blade- 

 like extremity with a knife-like edge rising into a .slightly curved point 

 and passing at the base into a slightly differentiated lateral spur. 

 They exhibit little variety in shape or proportions (PI. X\', fig. 12). 



Proboscis unkncjwn. Color nearly uniform pale yellow, faded, the 

 eye-spots deep brown. 



Six specimeas from station 4,400, off San Diego, April 8, 500 fathoms 

 jireen mud. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 335 



One is a female filled \Wth large eggs distinct!}' visible to the naked 

 e^'e; the otheis. including the type, appear to be males. 



Sphaerodornm brevicapitis sp. nov. PI. XV, tigs. 13. U. 



Although considerably larger this species closely resembles *S. 

 papillifcr in general appearance. The type and only specimen, much 

 contracted and distorted, is 39 nun. long, with a maximum diameter 

 without parapodia of 1.6 mm., and has 96 segments. 



(Jwing to the partial protrusion of the proboscis as a soft bulbous 

 structure the prostomium is crowded doi-sad. It appeai-s as a Axry 

 slight, scarcely distinguishable lobe, Ijearing scattered papilUv. of 

 which five, though still small, are larger than the othere; three of these 

 are very close together near the anterior margin of the lip; the other.•^ 

 are separated In' a considerable interval on each side. 



Peristomium likewise indistinct — a short acluetous ring bearing a 

 minute mammilliform papilla on each side. A pair of rather large. 

 widely separated pigment spots, the remains of a jiair of eyes, lies 

 partly on this segment but chiefly on III. ( )\viiig to the condition of 

 the specimen little can lie determined about the normal ajipearance of 

 the segments. The cutaneous j)apillu', however, are le.ss numerous 

 and smaller than in .S. papillifcr. They are scattered fairly uiiifnimly 

 over the surface, becoming more numerous on the jiarapodia. I'vgi- 

 dium a minute ring bearing a pair of low, broad, mammilliform papiihi-. 

 besides at least two small, simple papilla?. 



Parapodia (PI. X\'. fig. 13) in general similar to those of .S. papillijtr. 

 l)Ut the parts more widely separated and the neiu'opodia more slentl(>r 

 and cylindrical with a conical apex, rather than simply conical, and 

 ending in a small jjostacicular lobe. Neurocirri small, subconical 

 processes arising from the jjosterior ventral side of the ncuropodia just 

 at the base of the terminal cone. Spherical organ prominent, with a 

 thiimer ciiticlo than in .S. jxtpillifcr, and the papilla borne on the ventral 

 side of the base instead of on the outer surface. Doi-sal papilla (iioto- 

 cirrus) well above spherical organ, small, chivifnrm, with a widciiid 

 base. 



Aciculum single, rather more slender than thai of .S. iKipillijtr. 

 but similar in form, colorless, the blunt-pointed tij) projecting freely. 

 Seta' in irregular fa>^cicles of usually eight or nine, rather prominent, 

 all compound or semi-compound, becoming widened and flattened 

 distally and then tapering into a hooked tip or apj)endage which is 

 articulated to the stem by an oblifpie joint, the absence of which wnuM 

 leave these seta; very similar to those of .S. jHtpillijcr (PI. W, Wn. 1 1 1 




:>36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [JuilC, 



Proboscis — see above. Color slifihtly ycllowisli ; opaque from pres- 

 ence of sperm-balls with which ca^lom is packed. 



Type only, from station 4,395, off Santa Catalina Islands. March 31, 

 2,045 fathoms, blue-gray mud. 



SphsBrodorum sphaerulifer sp. nfv. 



Fraiiment of caudal end of a species related to S. claparedii Greeff, 

 but with the large spherical bodies more numerous. It is dark brown 

 and very opaque. Each segment beat's on the doi-snm two or three 

 pairs of large, and alternating with them smaller, spheroidal bodies, 

 all jiartially united at their bases into a somewhat irregular trans- 

 \-ei'se ridge. The smaller numbers are at the posterior end, and they 

 increase regularly as far as the piece extends to the middle segments. 

 Several similar but smallet bodies occur on the venter. Neuropodia 

 generally similar to those of S. bremcapitis, but the very extensile 

 neurocirri and postacicular lobes are much largei', a j^apilla appears 

 to be absent from the notopodial organ and the firet (a smaller one) 

 of the transverse series of dorsal appendages may be the notocirrus 

 of each segment. Setse compound, similar to those of S. brevicapitis , 

 bul with the joint more distinct and the appendage somewhat longer. 



The single specimen, included among some invertebrates presented 

 to the Academy by Professor Harold Heath, was taken from a deep- 

 sea fish-line in Monterey Bay on July 16, 1902. 



HESIONIDiE. 

 Podarke pugettensis Johnson. 



About a dozen specimens with up to fifty-eight segments and except 

 for the eyes devoid of pigment. One is regenerating the caudal end. 

 Many have the proboscis, which has not been described, protruded. 

 It measures about 1.5 mm. long and half as wide, the basal two-thirds 

 swollen, bulbous and smooth, the distal portion subcylindrical or trun- 

 cated conical and more or less compressed; terminal orifice a vertical 

 slit surrounded by eight or ten faintly marked small papilla. 



The first mention of this species in literature is under the name of 

 Ophiodromus by Harrington and Griflin as a parasite on Asterias 

 in Puget Sound. 



San Diego Bay, Beacon No. 3 Shoal, March 1, 1904. 



PH YLLODOCIDuSJ . 

 Phyllodoce mucosa Oersted. 



This species, already recorded from the North Pacific, appears to be 

 common off southern California. Most of the specimens are well 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 337 



preserved and agree clo-sely with t\'pical examples of the species taken 

 in the North Atlantic at Labrador and Greenland, as well as with the 

 figures of Malmgren and other European authoi"s. The only apparent 

 difference is that the Pacific examples may have one or two more papil- 

 lae in some of the rows on the proboscis, most of them having 11 or 12 

 in the upper and lower and 13 or 14 or rarely 15 in the middle rows. 

 None shows any trace of a median doreal series, but the other papillae 

 are prominent and generally have a coaspicuous brown spot on the 

 posterior face. The form of the prostomium is very changeal)le and 

 may be pyramidal, ovate or deeply cordate, but is always more or less 

 emarginate posteriorly. The nuchal papilla is minute and inconspicu- 

 ous. Several specimens are regenerating lost caudal ends and one is 

 filled with eggs. 



Seven specimens from station 4,399, off San Diego, April 7, 245 

 fathoms, fine gray sand and rock; and one from each of the following: 

 4.445. Monterey Bay, May 11, 66 fathoms, green mud; 4.476, same. 

 May 16. 39 fathoms, soft green mud; 4,482, same. May 17, 43 fathoms, 

 soft green mud; 4.4S5, same, 108 fathoms, soft green mud and sand; 

 4.519, same. May 26, 35 fathoms, hard gray sand; 4,548, same, June 

 7. 46 fathoms, coarse sand, shells and rock. 



Phyllodoce medipapillata .Mo<ire. 



The median doi-sal series of proboscidial papillae is always well 

 developed and f|uite as c()ns])if'u()us as the others. Besides this charac- 

 ter this species is distinguished from the related P. mucosa by having 

 the setae appendages much shorter and the notocirri ovate-lanceolate 

 iastead of truncated as in that species. The large specimen is just 

 100 nun. long with 201 segments, 



A single example was collected at each of tiio following stations: 

 4.420, off San Nicolas Island. April 12. 33 fath(»ms. fincgray sand; 4.460, 

 Monterey Bay, May 12, 55 fathoms, green mud, gravel ; 4.55S, Monterey 

 Bay, June 9, 40 fathoms, rock. 



Phyllodoce ferrnginea ''V- ni>v. IM. XV. fit's, l.v l«. 



Two complete specimens of nearly ec|ual size. The type measures 

 46 mm. long. .7 mm. in maxinnnn width of body and 1.2 mm. l)etween 

 tips of parapodia; 14S segments. Very slender, nearly linear, widest 

 alxmt f'lid of anterior third, somewhat depressed. 



I'rostomium (I'l. N\', fig. 15) regularly elliptical, about fi\(>-sixtlis 



jis wide a-s long, slightly depres-sed, slightly truncated at both ends 



and with a very slight posterior median emargination. strongly conwx 



above. Kyes one pair, brown, very large with prominent lenses, 



22 




33S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [.luilC, 



their cliamotor nearly one-third width of prostoniiuni. situated just 

 posterior to middle of length close to i)osterior hordei-s of ])rosto- 

 iniuni and looking doi-so-laterad. Frontal tentacles arising \)\ re- 

 stricted bases, widely sejiarated on antero-lateral l)ordei-s of prosto- 

 niiuni, long, slender and subulate, tapereil regularly from above base 

 to slender tip; the dorsal one and one-half times or more the length of 

 prostomium. the ventral about a,s long as ]:)rostomium. Stud}- of 

 additional material may modify the last statement, as some of the 

 tentacles of both specimens have evidently suffered injury and one 

 (type) has two, the cotype one, in regeneration as small knob-like buds. 

 The cells of the prostomium form a small rosette-like radiation anterior 

 to the eyes, but there is no indication of a median tentacle. 



Peristomium completely crowded beneath prostomium. projecting 

 as lateral lobes merely, from the upper part of which arise the two pairs 

 of tentacular cirri. No nuchal papilla. Posterior lip prominent, 

 Somites II and III very short but distinct, except that ventrally the 

 former coalesces with the prostomium to form the lower lip. Tentacu- 

 lar cirri (fig. 15) all unusually long and slender, regularly tapered, with 

 well-developed cirrophores. The peristomial arises at about the level 

 ofj^the foliaceous notocirri and reaches to about XII; the dorsal of II 

 is at a higher level and reaches X\TI; ventral of II at a very low level 

 and equals peristomial; that of III at nearly the level of succeeding 

 notocirri and reaches XI\'. Three or four small setse arise from a small 

 tubercle between the cirri of II and a fully developed neuropodium 

 occurs on III. Anterior segments all very short and distinctly 

 biannulate; farther back they become nearly half as long as wide. 

 Pygidium a rather long ring, but cirri wanting. 



Parapodia (PI. XV, fig. 16) unusually small, projecting very little 

 from side of body, the neuropodium flattened, with postsetal lip obso- 

 lete and presetal lip large and broadly rounded distally with a A-ery 

 slight notch, from which the point of the aciculum projects (fig. 17). 

 Xeurocirrus very strongly foliaceous, broadly subovate, se^'eral times 

 larger than neuropodium on all somites, completely concealing them 

 from behind and bending dorsad until on most somites it meets the 

 notocirrus; arrangement of veins radial. Xotocirrophores prominent, 

 somewhat flattened domes, two or three times as large at the neuro- 

 podia on middle segments. Strongly foliaceous, thin, imbricated but 

 covering only a small part of the sides of the body, of moderate size 

 but very large in comparison with the neuropodia, broadly cordate 

 with apex bluntly rounded (usually broader at the end than the one 

 fif'uredj and base deeply excavated, with deep yellow-brown veins 

 formin'' a derLse bi pinnate figure; rather easily detached. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 339 



Aciculum single, nearly colorless, straight, tapered to a point like 

 a sharpened pencil which projects slightly beyond the acicular notch 

 (fig. 17). Setae rather numerous, in broad, fan-shaped fascicles onh' 

 obscurely divided into supra- and subacicular groups; 8 -t- 11 on 

 somite X, 9 -!- 12 on XX\' and L, 7 -h 9 on C of type. They are 

 colorless with moderately long stems scarcely reaching beyond the 

 border of the neurocirri of middle segments, slender and gently clu•^■ed. 

 rather coaspicuously inflated at the ends (PI. X\'. fig. 18) to form a 

 socket bounded In' lateral ranks of slender teeth connected anteriorly 

 by a row of much smaller teeth. Appendages rather long, eciualling 

 or generally exceeding depth of neuropodia. very delicate with striations 

 and marginal denticulations not visible under the magnification shown. 



Color generally rusty, the bod)' pale with little color, the cephalic 

 appendages and neurocirri deeper and the notocirri very l)rilliant 

 yellowish l)rown which contrasts strongly with the paler body and 

 gives the wtjrm it.s conspicuous coloring. Proboscis unknown. 



Station 4.550. Monterey Ba}', June 7, 50 fathoms, green mud. rock. 



In form of the prostomium and other features this species approaches 

 P. citrinn Malmgren. 



Phyllodoce (^Carobia) castanea Maronzeller. 



A small example 20 nmi. long with lOG segments. Like the specimen 

 previously reported from Monterey Bay this one has notocirri some- 

 what more elongated than those of Marenzeller's Japanese types. 

 The color is paler and more yellowish than in the specimen above 

 mentioned, though, like it, this is a female with eggs. There is no 

 trace of a nuchal paj)illa and the flattening of the tentacular nvii is 

 ver)"^ obvious. 



Phyllodoce poh/phijlla Ehlers, from South (leorgia. is probably closely 

 related to this species, though Khler's figure cxhiliits no .setigerous 

 loix? on II. which is very obvious in this specimen. The minute doi-sal 

 tentacles shown by the tyj)e of /■•. ;W ///>/( ///M are probably merely the 

 result of these being in process of regeneration after having been lost. 

 as I have seen precisely similar conditions in .several species. 



Station 4,496, Monterey Bay. .May 19. 10 fathoms, fine gray sand and 

 rof'k. 

 Anaitis polynoides sp. n«v. PI. XVI, Hen. Itf-i'l. 



( )wing to the closely imbricated maimer in which tjie large notocirri 

 overlap the slender body this species bears a superficial resemblance t(» 

 an elongated Pohfnor or even more to a Sifumlois. The single sprVi- 

 men iscomplete, but the posteiior one-fointh of the 1 mdy has evidently 




340 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juiie, 



been recently re^eneratetl — beiiiu abruptly unpi<iincnt('(l and of smaller 

 size. 



Form slender, depressed, the sejiments scarcely exceedinjj; one-third 

 of total width Ix'tween niaririns of notocirri or tips of ))arapodia. 

 From the maxinnnn widtii at the end of the anterior fourth the extreme 

 outline tapers slightly forward and regularly and continuously caudad. 

 Length 44 mm.; maxinuun width of segments 1.(1 mm.; total width 

 3.S mm. Segment.s SS. 



Prostomium very short, broad and depressed, decidedly bent ilown- 

 ward. In the figure (PI. XVI, fig. 19) the prostomium is represented 

 a-s pressed ujiward somewhat, ])ut in the position in which it naturally 

 rests the anterior outline is regularly semicircular and the length 

 (exclusive of the posterior prolongation) about one-half the width. 

 From the slightly convex posterior margin a median prolongation fits 

 into a deep depression in the peristomium and bears a knob-like nuchal 

 cirrus having a diameter about equal to the eyes. Eyes one pair, con- 

 spicuous, circular, brown, about one-ninth or one-eighth the width of 

 the prostomiinn and widel}^ separated )jy an interval of a])out fi-ve 

 times their diameter, close to the posterior margin of the prostomium. 

 Frontal tentacles very short, subconical with small terminal append- 

 ages, very widely separated and somewhat reflexed on sides of prosto- 

 mium; the dorsal about as long as one-third widtli of prostomium and 

 separated by about twice their length ; the ventral somewhat longer, 

 nearer together and reflexed so that they are concealed in dorsal views. 



Peristomium somewhat tumid laterally, but excavated dors o-medi ally 

 for the nuchal projection and papilla, almost indistinguishably 

 coalesced with, II which is similarl}^ tumid laterally but lacks a median 

 depression. 



Tentacular cirri four pairs, rather short, thick, blunt, and stiff. 

 The first (or peristomial) pair scarcely longer than width of prostomium 

 and not reaching beyond IV; dorsal of II with a much larger cerato- 

 phore and reaching VII; ventral of II equal to peristomial and that 

 of III (notocirrus) similar to dorsal of II and reaching VIII. 



Podous segments well defined, very regular, the anterior very short, 

 but soon becoming one-third as long as wide, slightly convex above, 

 flat below, with a shallow neural groove. Posteriorly the segments 

 taper to a very minute pygidium bearing a pair of relatively stout, 

 cylindroid anal cirri, the combined width of which equals that of the 

 pygidium and the length the last five or six segments. 



Parapodia (PI. XVI, fig. 20) begin on III, strictly lateral, prominent, 

 their length exceeding one-half width of body, toward the ends becom- 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 341 



ing smaller but otherwise unmodified. Strictly uniramal, the neuro- 

 podia compressed, with obsolete postsetal lip and prominent, foliaceous 

 presetal lip divided by an acicular notch into a larger, broadly-rounded, 

 supra-acicular lobe and a somewhat shorter subacicular lobe obliquely 

 tapered to a blunt point. 



Xotocirrophores large, those of all except most anterior segments 

 flattened and auriculate (fig. 20), Xotocirrostyles beginning with IV, 

 thin and membranous; typically broadly lunate-reniform, the exter- 

 nal border squarish, very regularly, closely and broadly imbricated, 

 covering and concealing the parapodia and posteriorly the entire 

 dorsum, but leaving the middle of the segments exposed anteriorly. 

 Toward the anterior end the styles approach a circular form and become 

 gradually smaller imtil practicalh' the entire doreum is left uncovered. 

 The notocirrus of III is the last tentacular cirrus, while the neurocirrus 

 of the same segment differs in no respect from those following. Xeuro- 

 cirrophores prominent swellings at base of ventral side of neiu'ojjodia. 

 Neurostyles (fig. 20) oblong elliptical, with the broad distal end sub- 

 truncate, foliaceous, about equalling the neuropodia in size and reach- 

 ing to or, on anterior parapodia, beyond their ends. 



Aciculum .single, stout, pale yellow, gently curved, with simple 

 bluntly p(Hnted tip. Set£E (PI. X\'I, fig. 21) colorless, numerous (al)out 

 30, equally divided between supra- and sul^acicular groups on middle 

 segments), in a broad, fan-.shaped fascicle. Shafts slender, slightly 

 curved, slightly enlarged at the end; the very asymmetrical socket 

 prolonged on one side into a great spine with a few small teeth on its 

 base; the other side bearing a shoulder for articulation of the append- 

 age which is supported b}- a thin, scale-like proc(\«s slightly fimbriated 

 at the end. Appendages long, about erpial to the depth of tlie neuro- 

 podia, slender and delicate with the margin very finely but distinctly 

 denticulated. The form of the articulation icscinblcs the Elvonc 

 type. 



Color generally, inc-luding prostoiniuiu and four anterior segments, 

 under parts, parapodia, lateral i)arts of notocirri and posterior fourth 

 of body, pale yellowish or yellowish a.siiv; exposed jiart of doi-sum 

 rich purplish-red with a fine blue-green inileseenee. Inner tiiirds of 

 notocirri rich brown, together forming a i)air of broad stripes extending 

 continuou.sly f(}r the anterior three-fourtiis and becoming darker anter- 

 iorly. Tentacular cirri except colorless tips, largely of a somewhat 

 darker brown. Kyes dark l)rown. 



i'rol)osci.s unknown. The typ<' is a female ('(witaining half-grown qva 

 which largely fill the crrlom and enter tiie cavities of the parapodia and 

 notocirrophores. 




342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juno, 



Station 4.54S. MontcM-oy Hay. Juno 7, 46 fathoms, coai"so saiul, sliolls 

 and rock. 

 Eumida tubiformis sf- nov. I'l. XVI, tiKs. Ji, 23. 



All of the specimens are contracted and in this state are depressed 

 and stout, with the segments much crowded, particularly at the 

 anterior end. The type, a female with 137 segments, is 67 mm. long, 

 with a maximum body width of 3.1 mm, and a width between tips of 

 parapodia of 4.5 mm. A male with 104 segments is 37 mm. long, and 

 a small porticjn of the anterior end of a ^•cry largo example measures 

 7 mm. between the tips of the seta?. 



Prostomium in the several specimens varying in degree of contraction 

 and proportions, in the type and most of the others being nearly twice 

 as wide as long, subelliptical, slightly concave posteriorly and with a 

 tentaculiferous prominence in front, the prominent lateral ocular lobes 

 resting upon the peristomium. One specimen has the prostomium 

 subtriangiilar and only about one-fourth wider than long. In life it 

 would probably be broadly cordate. Eyes one pair, very large, about 

 one-fourth, or somewhat less, the width of the prostomium, with large 

 lenses looking upward. Immediately behind and below them are the 

 small nuchal sense organs. 



Frontal tentacles arising close together on front of prostomium 

 separated by a distance of about one-fourth width of prostomium, 

 all subulate with basal half thickened and beyond that abruptly tapered 

 to ver}' slender tips, subequal or the ventral pair somewhat longer, 

 slightly exceeding one-half width of prostomiimi. ]\Iedian tentacle 

 arising from a slight depression between lenses of eyes, not abruptlj' 

 thickened at base, more slender and slightly longer than frontal 

 tentacles. 



Peristomium much shortened, crowded beneath prostomium, not 

 visible as a distinct segment from above; somites II and 111 also much 

 shortened and crowded. Tentacular cirri with well-developed cirro- 

 phores and large stout subulate styles shaped like the median tentacle 

 but very much larger. Dorsal and ventral of II wideh^ sepai-ated, the 

 ventral being at nearly the level of the notocirri of succeeding somites. 

 The single pairs of I and III lie opposite the interval between those 

 of II, the peristomial being at the higher level. That of I reaches VI, 

 ventral of II reaches VHI and dorsals of II and III reach IX. 



Body of very uniform diameter, being perhaps widest at about XL, 

 thence tapered verj' gradually and regularly caudad. Owing to the 

 manner in which the notocirri are imbricated an aspect of rather strong 

 depression results, but the body is really very little depressed. Seg- 




190y.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 343 



raents arched above, flattened below with a slight neural ridge, dis- 

 tinctly biannulate dorsally with small intersegmental rings. Pygidium 

 a veiy small, slightly thickened and rugous ring. 



Xormal setigerous parapodia (PI. XVI, fig. 22) begin on III, 

 but a small tubercle bearing a few setae lies between the cim of II. 

 They arise at the ventral level of the segments and are prominent, 

 being from more than one-third to one-half the width of their segments. 

 Xeuropodium somewhat compressed, supported by a single aciculum, 

 the postsetal lobe nearly obsolete, presetal well developed, divided by 

 an acicular notch into a supra- and a subacicular lobe, both rounded on 

 anterior but bluntly pointed on posterior parapodia. 



Xeurocirri broadly foliaceous. ovate with bluntly pointed tip and 

 oblicjue base attached to a low cirrophore, reaching to or beyond end 

 of neuropodium which they exceed in width and overlap and conceal 

 from behind. They are relatively much larger on anterior somites 

 where they equal one-half the notocirri, diminishing to one-fourth the 

 notocirri posteriorly. Xotocirrophores low and broad. Xotocirro- 

 styles (PI. XVI, fig. 22) of moderate size, broadly foliaceous and im- 

 bricated over bases of parapodia, leaving most of the dorsum of body 

 exposed. They are broadly cordate with blunt apex and nearly 

 symmetrical base, the anterior ones broader, often wider than long and 

 blunter, the posterior tending to more acute, cuneate, longer, less 

 cordate forms, with the length as much as one and one-third times the 

 width. 



Aciculum single, yellow, stout, tapered, straight or slightly curved 

 and ending in a simple blunt point at the acicular notch. Setiu in a 

 single vertical .series spreading fanwise and only very slightly separated 

 at the acicular notch into supra- and subacicular groups. On the 

 type they are distributed as follows: sf)mite X, l-'i supra- and 21 sub- 

 acicular; XXV, 14 and 25; L, 11 and 24; I.X.W . 11 an<l 17: and C, 

 S aM<l 14. 



They are nearly colorless, with slender slightly curved stems scarcel}' 

 enlarged at the ends (IM. XVI, fig. 23) to form an imperfect asymmetri- 

 cal socket, the best developed side of wiiicii is broadly rounded and 

 provided with a uniform series of slend(M- teeth. Aj>pendages of 

 moderate lengtli, very uniformly al)out one-half depth of neuropodium, 

 rather broad at l)ase but tapering to a slender tip with scarcely dis- 

 cernible marginal dentieulation. 



Color imiform dark brown, yellowish brown or pale yellow with a 

 few irregularly scattered dusky or bhu-k blotches, one of which m\i\ 

 l)e on the prostomium. 




344 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [.luilC, 



Proboscis of typo S.5 nun. loii^, 2.4 mm. in diamctcM- at orifice; of 

 large.'St specimen 10 mm. long, 3 nun. in diameter at ha.se antl 4 mm. 

 at orifice. It is somewhat trumpet-shaped, <iratluall\- widening to the 

 somewhat flaring distal end which is surrounded In- a circle of 18 to 20 

 low, rounded, soft i)a|)ilhe more or less incised at the l)a.se and in some 

 cases cleft in two. When protruded tlie ])rol)oscis has a slight sjiiral 

 twist and is marked l)y three narrow, raised longitudinal lines on each 

 side, the doi-sal and ventral intervals l)etween those of the two sides 

 being one-third more than the lateral intervals between those of the 

 same side. The general surface is marked with fine irregular wrinkles 

 and usually, but not always, with minute gramilations which are 

 slightly more conspicuous along the raised lines. 



Stations 4,430, off Santa Cruz Island. April 14. 197 fathoms, black 

 sand and pebbles, six specimens, two of which (including the t3'pe, a 

 female filled with large ova) are mature; 4,423, off San Nicolas Island, 

 April 13, 339 fathoms, grav sand, black jiebbles. shells, one young 

 specimen, in which the longest (second dorsal) tentacular cirri each 

 bears a symmetrical swelling on its anterior face near the middle. 

 Eulalia nigrimaculata s<P- nov. VI. XVI, Hgs. 24-26. 



Two complete specimens considerably contracted have the follow- 

 ing measurements: Type 33 mm. long; maximum width near middle 

 body only 1.5 mm., extreme width between tips of parapodia 3 mm.; 

 number of segments 89 ; female with eggs. Cotype 36 mm. long with 90 

 segments. 



Prostomium subglobose, slight!}^ depressed, nearly circular in out- 

 line as seen from above; profile strongly convex, sloping downward 

 anteriorly; sharply difTerentiatcd from peristomium. Eyes one pair, 

 brown, with well-developed lenses, large, nearly one-fourth width of 

 prostomium, midway of the length and close to the lateral margins 

 of which they are situated. On the type the right eye is enormously 

 and abnormally enlarged and occupies the most of that side, to the dis- 

 placement of the dorsal right tentacle. Frontal tentacles widely sepa- 

 rated, the dorsal just outside of line of lateral border of e3^es, the ventral 

 slightly nearer together; length of dorsal eciual to prostomial width, with 

 swollen fusiform basal half and abruptly contracted filamentous distal 

 half; ventral similar but with much .shorter terminal filament. Median 

 tentacle (present in type only) arising between eyes, slightly longer than 

 frontal tentacles, with less swollen base and regularly tapered. 



Peristomium and II coalesced, forming a short distinct ring above, 

 crowded forward beneath the prostomium, at the sides of which the 

 peristomium appears. Mouth large, bounded by a nearly smooth 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 345 



posterior lip. Tentacular cirri much crowded, the peristoniial and 

 that of III (notocirnis) arising almost between the doi-sal and ventral 

 cirri of II, the former at the higher level. All have short but distinct 

 ceratophores and prominent, regularl}' acuminate styles with slender 

 tips. They are slightly flattened in the type, much more strongly 

 flattened, apparently a.>< a result of accidental pressure, in the cotype. 

 The longest (doi-sal of II) reaches to XII, those of I and III reach to 

 IX and the ventral of II to VI. A conspicuous tuft of neuropodial 

 setae occurs between the two cirri of II. 



Setigerous segments sharph' defined by deep furrows; very short 

 anteriorly but increasing until in the middle region they are at least 

 one-third as long as wide. Slightly depressed and little more convex 

 above than below. Behind the middle the}- gradually diminish in 

 size to the pygidium, which is a very short and small ring, the cirri of 

 which have been lost. 



Parapodia rather short, scarcel}' exceeding one-third width of thtir 

 segments but with conspicuous spreading tufts of setfe which begin on 

 II. Xeuropodia (PI. X\'I. fig. 24) strongly compressed, subovate; 

 postsetal lip rudimentary; presetal lij) well developed, foliaceous. 

 symmetrical, terminating in a blunt point but altogether lacking a 

 notch, though there is a slight posterior groove in which the end of 

 the aciculum rests (fig. 25). Xcurocirri (fig. 24) rather thick, vciy 

 large, especially anteriorly where they have an area of about four times 

 theneuropodiuni, but dimiuishiugto twice the neiu'opodium jiosteriorly. 

 They are narrowly |)alette-shaped, the excavated portion attached to 

 low cirrophores on the ventral base of tlic iienro|)odia. llie broad end 

 outward and bent doi-sad behind and extending far beyond the neun*- 

 podia, which tliev completely conceal from behind and serv<' the pur- 

 pose of postsetal lobes. They are crowded with deep-brown oi- on tiic 

 margins often nearly black glands. Xotocirrojjhores (fig. 24) large 

 and prominent, erect, more or less dome-like with a restricted area for 

 attachment of the styles. Styles thin an<l nicnilnanous. ea.^ily 

 detached, somewhat imbricated and concealing tlic parapodia: anter- 

 iorly ovate with rounded ends, on middle segments broadly ovate- 

 cuneate with pointed ends and posteriorly becoming elongated: tlic 

 base oblifjue and asymmetrical with a shallow sinus for attachment. 

 Internal structure finely reticular with sjiirlitlv developed veins and 

 glands. 



Aciculum single, colorless, tapered, ending in a rather acute point. 

 Setje forming a very broad undivided, fan-shaped fascicle, very numer- 

 ous for the genus (."^O on X, 4S on X.W, 40 «»n I, and 'M') on b.\'.\\'). 




o46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juiie, 



projecting alxnit ono-fourth of their length heyoml the neurocirri. 

 Stems colorless, of nioileriite length, nearly straight, little enlarged at 

 the distal end (PI. W 1 . fig. 26) where they terminate in a small shoulder 

 and a socket bouiuled on each side by a fringe of long delicate teeth. 

 Appendages very delicate, about as long as dej)th of neuropodiuni 

 with barely discernible marginal teeth. 



Proboscis (only partially {protruded) cylindrical, 5.5 nun. long and 

 .6 mm. in diameter, surface thickly covered with small, blunt, flattened, 

 slightly retroi-se papillae, separated by considerably more than their 

 length. 



Color gray-l)lue or bluish-plumbeous with a metallic blue iridescence 

 and brownish suffusions and marked \\ith a few conspicuous gradrate 

 black spots, especially on the ventral surface, either widely scattered 

 singly or aggregated in groups. Notocirri uniform orange yellow. 

 Neurocirri 3'ellowish with dark brown or blackish margin. 



Station 4,454, Monterey Bay, May 12, 71 fathoms, green mud anfi 

 sand. 



Eulalia levicornuta sp. nov. PI. XVI. tigs. 27-30. 



Only one small specimen measuring 43 nuu. long is complete, with 

 221 segments. The type is much larger, being 70 mm. long for 172 

 segments and lacking perhaps the caudal one-third and 100 segments; 

 its maximum width of body at C-CXX is 1.2 mm., between tips of 

 parapodia 1.8 mm. Another very much macerated and incomplete 

 specimen referred here somewhat doubtfully has 240 segments and is 

 94 mm. long, and less than 1 mm. wide, having therefore nearly the 

 proportions of a slender lumbriconereid. 



Form very slender and elongated, nearly linear, but tapering gently 

 both ways from about the end of the anterior third. 



Prostomium (PI. X\'I, fig. 27) about as wide as long, moderately 

 depressed, semiovate with truncate ends or subtriangular with rounded 

 basal angles and truncated apex, usually sharply differentiated from 

 the peristomium, but in one specimen almost continuous with it dor- 

 sally. Eyes one pair, small, about one-seventh of posterior width of 

 prostomium, close to its postero-lateral angles, separated b}' three to 

 three and one-half times their diameter, dark brown, with small lenses. 

 Frontal tentacles situated on the sides of a distinctly separated anterior 

 segment of the prostomium, subcorneal, their length about one-half 

 prostomium. Median tentacle a minute, slender, conical papilla 

 situated on Une between anterior border of eyes and having a length 

 of from one to one and one-half times their diameter. 



Peristomium a complete ring entirely posterior to the prostomium 




1909.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 347 



and usually free from it all round, scarcely wider than prostomium, 

 doi-sally elevated into a convex platform-like area which in one case 

 overlaps the prostomium and partly covers the eyes. Mouth small 

 with nearly snKjoth posterior lip. Somites II and III similarly well 

 differentiated with similarly elevated doreum. Tentacular cirri arising 

 from large cirrophores, the styles rather stout, tapered and short; the 

 peristomial pair about as long as prostomium and reaching to III; 

 ventral of II equal to peristomial and above its base a tubercle bearing 

 a small tuft of setse; doi-sal of II about twice as long and reaching 

 VI or VII, Somite III beai-s a fully developed setigerous ]iarapodium 

 and its tentacular notocirrus is equal to that of II. 



Anterior somites are uniannulate and veiy distinct, becoming less 

 well differentiated farther back as small interpodal annuli appear. 

 The raised doi-sal field gradually merges with the general convexity of 

 the back. The venter is flat. They very gradually increase in size 

 to or beyond C, and taper thence caudad. 



Pygidium a dome-shaped ring alxnit twice as long as the last 

 setigeroiLS segment, bearing a pair of somewhat flattened, subcylin- 

 ch'ical cirri resembling the posterior notocirri but rather larger than 

 they, together with a minute median cirrus (described from one speci- 

 men, .station 4,431). 



Parapodia (PI. XVI. figs. 2S,29) small, little prominent and scarcely 

 exceeding one-fourth the width of their segments, l)ut becoming 

 relatively longer and more prominent po.steriorly. Setigerous nciuo- 

 podia begin on II; they are slender, only slightly compressed, and 

 little tapered to a l)luntly rounded presctal lip divided by a slight acicu- 

 lar notch into two equally rounded lobes, of which the subacicular is 

 usually somewhat longer; postsetal lip scarcely developed. 



Xeurocirrophores broad and low, the styles (IM. XVII, figs. 28, 29) 

 sul)elliptical, little excavated for attachment, thick, more or less 

 foliaceous. broadest and relatively largest on anterior parapodia, where 

 they considerably exceed tlie neuropodia and extend somewhat beyond 

 them. Pasteriorly they are relatively smaller and narrower, but often 

 so much longer that fully one-foin1h of their length projects beyond 

 the neurf)podia, but they always tend to diverge from the latter and 

 not to bend dorsad l)ehind them. Notocirrophores (PI. .WI. figs. 

 28. 29) of anterior somites rather small, of middle somites h»w l)ut 

 nearly as wide as the length of the neuropttdia. Styles generally 

 foliaceous but comparatively small, carried nearly erect, little imbri- 

 caterl and covering but a small part of the sides of the parapn^lia. 

 On anterior somites (fig. 28) they are regularly ovat** with broadl\- 




348 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [.luUO, 



roiiiulcd ilistal ciul and scarcely excavated \nisv; on luiildlc scpiincnts 

 lar«i(>r. more broadly ovate, with bluntly pointed tips and nearly 

 straijiht synmietrical bases; while ])<)sterioiiy they become ajiain 

 smaller ami tend toward a cuneate form. Tliey all exhi))it strongly 

 marked internal striations arranged in a partly bipinnate, ])artly 

 radiate pattern. On some specimens the styles are contracted and 

 much thicker, the anterior ones being nearly cylindrical, and all are 

 opaque and of a more or less deep brown color. Greatly extended speci- 

 mens have the notocirri all erect and widely separated. 



Aciculum single, rather slender, of the form usual in the genus, with 

 the bluntly pointed tip projecting slightly from the notch. Set£B 

 (PI. X\'I, fig. 30) arranged in the usual fan-shaped vertical fascicles 

 of one series, of a rather small number, as follows in the t^'pe: on X 

 7 supra- and 5 subacicular, on XXV 5 + 11, on L 9 + 11, on LXXV 11 

 + 12, on C 7 + 14 and on CLXX 14 in all. They have remarkably 

 long, slender shafts with slightly enlarged symmetricalh' cleft ends 

 forming the socket, each side of which is prolonged obliquely into a 

 prominent elongated tooth flanked on each side by a fringe of delicate 

 spinules. Ai:)pendages (fig. 30) rather short, usually one-third to one- 

 half depth of neuropodium.but on one specimen (station 4,431) rather 

 longer, liroad at base and tapered and gently curved to a delicate 

 tip, the marginal denticulations and oblique striations fine but distinct. 



Proboscis of a cotype protruded 2.5 mm., .4 mm. in diameter at distal 

 end, terete, gradually increasing in diameter distally, the entire surface 

 covered so thickly that they touch each other with crowded, granulated, 

 slightly flattened, rounded papillae, at least three irregular circles of 

 which at the distal end are of much larger size. 



Color of t3-pe (female filled with eggs) faded to a uiiiforiii pale greenish 

 drab or light olive. Another specimen is nearly unifoi-m lirown and 

 still another pale yellow with a thin brown line of granules across each 

 .segment and the head, tentacular cirri and parapodial cirri deep 

 brown \vith aggregations of similar granules. 



One specimen from each of the following stations: 4.418. off Santa 

 Barbara Island. April 12, 238 fathoms, gray sand ; 4,420, off San Nicolas 

 Island, April 12, 291 fathonxs, gray mud, rocks; 4,430 (type), off Santa 

 Cruz Island. April 14, 197 fathoms, black sand and pebbles; 4.433, off 

 Santa Rosa Island, April 15, 265 fathoms, gray mud. 



This species belongs to the bilineata-gracilis grou]) and, with the 

 exception of the Hawaiian species E. navaica Kinbcrg, appears to be the 

 first of that group to be described from the Pacific. As is the ca.se 

 with E. gracilis ^'errill, specimens in different states of contraction differ 

 considerably in appearance. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 349 



Eulalia (Sige; bifoliata sp. nov. PI. XVI, Hgs. 3l-n4. 



Described irom a single imperfect anterior end conrii.sting of tlie 

 head and 57 segments, having a length of 18 mm. and a maximum 

 diameter between tips of parapodia of nearly 2 mm. Contracted and 

 rather stout, strongl}- arched above, flat below and little tapered in 

 the length of the piece. 



Prostomium (PI. XM. fig. o\) about three-fourths as long as wide, 

 somewhat depressed, subpyraniidal with a straight, inchned profile, 

 greatest width in posterior half, posterior border nearly straight, 

 entire, bounded by a deep furrow separating the peristomium. No 

 anterior furrow behind tentacles. Eyes circular with prominent lenses, 

 brown, large, about one-fourth width of prostomium and situated at 

 its greatest width, about one-half their diameter anterior to posterior 

 border and close to lateral border. Prontai tentacles situated rather 

 clase together at the truncated apex of prostomium, separated by 

 little more than one and one-half times their diameter, soniewiiat 

 macerated and imperfect, but their length approximately one-half 

 prostomium or slightly less. Median tentacle situated between 

 anterior Ijorder of cye.s at centre of prostomium, much smaller than 

 frontal tentacle, but macerated so that the exact size is not certain. 

 Immediately behind each eye is a faint brown spot. 



Peristomium scarcely visible above, forming a swollen lower lip 

 and small lobes beneath eyes. Remaining segments short, uniannulate. 

 Tentacular cirri witli distinct cirrophores, all styles lost except the 

 ventral of TT on one side, wliicji is rather short and stout, conical, 

 about one and one-half times length of prostoniiiini .hikI reaching to 

 V. A small tuft of seta' on II. 



Parapodia (PI. XVI, figs. ,32. .'33) small and little prominent, their 

 length aljout one-fourth width of somites on anterioi- and <>ne-lialf 

 on posterior (middle) somites, Ijut strongly compressed and d ('|). 

 Postsetal lip ol)solete; ))resetal greatly developed and foliaeeous, 

 divided l)V a deej) acicuhir notch into a much smaller sul)acicular lobe, 

 rounded at the end. and a hu'^rei' siipra-acieuhir lobe prolongecl into an 

 acuminate but blunt ti|) fre(|iiently much longer and nioic slender than 

 those figured. Neurocirrophores (figs. 32, 'S.i) rounded swellings at 

 base of neuropf)dia; .styles strongly foliaceous, thin. (|iiadrant-shaped, 

 with the doi-sal angle pro|onge<| similarly to the supra-aeicular lobe, 

 but usually extended far beyond the latter, 'i'hough of large size they 

 do not exceed the neurop<»dia of middle .segments, the sul)sotal lobes 

 of which they completely <'over from behind, reaehini: slightly dn*-sad 

 of tlie aeicular notch, their nearly straight doi-sal border being parallel 




350 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juiie, 



to the axis of the supra-acicular lol)e and scrviuL'- as a i)ostsotal support 

 to the setip. X()toeiiTo|)hores (fin;. :VA) low and Hat, moderate in size, 

 immediately above notopodiuni. Three or four only of the notostyles 

 remain. They are stron«rly foliaceous l)ut rather small, scarcely or 

 not longer than the neurostyles and al)out one and one-half times as 

 wide as they, broad ovate or suborbicular with nearly straight, truncate, 

 scarcely excavated base, opaque l»rown with granules chiefly arransied 

 in radial lines. 



Aciciilum single, pale yellowish, with colorless base, straight, regu- 

 larly tapered to a simple point, which enters but does not project 

 beyond the acicular notch. Setiu (I'l. X\T, fig. 34) numerous (18 

 supra- and 27 subacicular on XXV), forming a broad, spreading, fan- 

 shaped fascicle, the shafts colorless, long, with about one-third of their 

 length projecting beyond the margin of the neurocirrus, slightly 

 curved, little enlarged at the end, where they terminate in a prominent 

 shoulder and a pair of high, tapered processes finely denticulated at 

 the ends which bound the socket. The only perfect appendage seen 

 has a length of about three-fifths the depth of the neuropodium and 

 is slender and finely denticulated. 



Proboscis (dissected) tubular with smooth non-papillated lining; 

 orifice surrounded by a circle of apparently eighteen soft papilho. 



This species has the smooth proljoscis, prolonged neuropodia and 

 neiiropodial cirri and form of seise characteristic of the subgenus 

 Sige, features which appear in the descriptions of no known Eulalia 

 from the North Pacific or the west coast of South America. 



Type from station 4,522, Monterey Bay, -May 26, 149 fatlunns, 

 gray sand and shells. 



Explanation' of Plates XV and X\T. 



Plate XV. — Sj/llis helerochrrtn — figs. 1-4. 



Fig. 1. — Anterior end, X o6. 



Fig. 2. — Parapodium XXV with one long and one short seta in place; 

 a, short notocirnis from XXVI, X o6. 



Fig. 3.— End of short seta from XX^^ X 600. 



Fig. 4. — Same of long seta, X 250; a and b, articulation and tip of append- 

 age of same, X 600. 

 Pionosyllis tifpica — figs. .5-7. 



Fig 5 — Parapodium with dorsalmost and ventralmost seta? represented, 

 X 24. 



Fig. 6. — Tips of two acicula, X 400. 

 Fig. 7.— End of a seta from XXV, X 



600. 



Orhnlosj/llis pho.sphorea — figs. S-10. 



Fig. 8. — Parapodium X without setjp, .56. 



Fig. 9. — Parapodium L with bases of notopodial seta? onl}', X 50. 



Fig. 10.— Distal end of middle seta from L, X 600. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 351 



Sphcerodorum ixipillifer — figs:. 11, 12. 



Fig. 11. — Parapodiuni X with setie, X 9S. 

 Fig. 12. — Seta Ironi X, X 440. 

 Spharodorum brevicnpilin — figs. 1.3, 14. 



Fig. 13. — Parapodiuni X (the parts may be abnormally separated owing to 



distention of body walls) without setae, x 56 

 Fig. 14. — -Vverage .seta from somite X, X 440. 

 Pfii/llodore ferruginea — figs. 1.5-18. 

 Fig. 15. — -Anterior end, X 56. 



Fig. 16. — Parapodiuni XXV with dorsalmost and ventralmost seta shown 

 , X 56. 



Fig. 17. — End of neuropodium showing tip of aciculum, X .500. 

 Fig. IS. — Profile and front view of region of articulation of seta from XXV 

 X 440. 



Plate XVI. — Atuiitis pohjnoides — figs. 19-21. 



Fig. 19. — Anterior end, from tlie dorsum, X 24 



Fig. 20. — Parapodiuni of XX\', anterior view, dorsalmost and ventralmost 

 seta? showii, X 24. 



Fig. 21. — Profile and rear views of articular region of two .setie frf)ni somite 

 X, X SW. 

 Enmidifi lubiformis — figs. 22, 23. 



Fig. 22. — Anterior aspect of parapodium L, showing dorsalmost and Nentral- 

 most setjc in place, X 24. 



Fig. 23. — .\ seta from somite XXV, X 360. 

 Eulnlid nigriniarulata — figs. 24-26. 



Fig. 24. — .\nterior aspect of parapodium L, with dorsalmost and ventral- 

 most seta> in place, X 24. 



Fig. 25. — Outline of neuropodium showing tip of aciculum, X .56. 



Fig. 26. — Two views of articular region of seta from X, X 440. 

 Filial in lerlcomuta — figs. 27-30. 



Fig. 27.— .\nterior end, X 24. 



Fig. 2.S. — .Anterior a.'^pect of parapodiinn XX\', X •")6. 



Fig. 29. — .Same of parapodiuni I>XX\', with dorsalmost and ventralmost 

 seta' in place, X 24. 



Fig. .'iO.— .A seta from X.XV; n, front view of articulation of same, ■ MO. 

 Eiilnlin hifolifiUi — figs. 31-.34. 



Fig. 31.— Head from dorsum, X 24. 



Fig. .32. — Pf)sterif)r view of parapodiuni .\.\.\II1, without nolostylc or 

 set IP, X .56, 



Fig, .3.3. — .Anterior view of parapodium XXXIX, without setjp, X 5<>, 



Fig, 3}, — Profile and rear views of articulation of seta trom XX.XIII, X II". 




352 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [JunO, 



NOTES ON THE BIRDS OF SAN DOMINGO, WITH A LIST OF THE SPECIES, 

 INCLUDING A NEW HAWK. 



BY A. E. VERRILE AND A. HYATT AKHHILL. 



Durinfj; the winter and spriiifi' of 1900 and 1!H)7, tlie junior author 

 visited San Doniiniio on a foUcctin.u- trij), niainl>- for tlio nuunnials, 

 birds and reptiles, and especially for specimens of SoUnodon pcuvdozus, 

 of \vhich an account by him has been published in tlie Annals and 

 Magazine of Natund Ilititori/ and elsewhere.^ He had already ob- 

 tained a lariie and interestiujii; collection when an attack of typhoid 

 fever unfortunately put an end to his work. 



The avifauna of San Domingo is remarkable for the ninnber of species 

 peculiar to the island, many of which are confined to special, isolated 

 localities. ^lan}' species are met with only at certain seasons, while 

 others, usually very rare, are abundant in places where their food 

 plants occur, during the season when these plants are in fruit. 



The birds comprised in the accompanying list were obtained by the 

 junior authoi-^ in the Dominican Republic (Santo Domingo), between 

 December 21. 1906, and April 13, 1907. 



The list includes numerous species not hitherto recorded as taken 

 in San Domingo, two of which were undescribed forms. Many species 

 of migratory North American birds were obtained there for the first 

 time, so that the list gives valuable data as to the winter habitat of 

 many northern birds. A few species previously recorded from the 

 island were not observed, while several, such as the flamingo, spoonbill 

 and certain herons, were seen, but were not secured on account of their 

 shyness and the nearly inaccessible places which they frequent. 



The difficulties to be overcome in collecting in San Domingo are very 

 great; bird's are comparatively scarce and many species are exceedingly 

 shy from coastant hunting by the natives. It is quite probable, 

 therefore, that a nimiber of species yet remain to be discovered in the 

 more remote and inaccessible swamps and mountains. 



Although practically the entire republic was covered by this trip. 



' Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., vol. XX, p. 68, pi. IV; Amer. Journ. Science, 

 vol. XXn', pp. .5.5-o7 (cut). 1907; Bull. Atn. Mu.^. Xal. Hist. New York (J. A. 

 Allen), vol. XXI\', art. XXIII, pp. 505-517, fig.s. plates XXVIII to XXXIII, 

 IWS. 



* The notes on habits, etc., are taken from his field notes, made at the time. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 353 



localities were designated by districts as follows: Sanchez; Samana; 

 San Lorenzo; El Valle; La Vega; Miranda. Each of these districts 

 included the surrounding country for a radius of from twenty to 

 thirty miles. Sanchez, situated at the head of Samana Bay, proved 

 the most profitable collecting ground, for it affords a great variety 

 of country and vegetation. The town is built close to the shore of the 

 bay on a steep hillside. Directly back of the town a range of moun- 

 tains, which rises to a height of 3,500 feet, is covered with a dense 

 tropical forest, with the exception of the lower slopes, which are cleared 

 and partially under cultivation. West and south of the town are 

 extensive mangrove swamps, extending inland for twenty-five to thirty 

 miles and stretching across the bay to the mouth of the Barracota 

 River. Samana is also situated on the northern shore of Samand Bay , 

 about 16 miles east of Sanchez, and is surrounded by rolling hills, 

 forest-clad mountains, and broad and fertile valleys. The fauna was 

 much like that of the Sanchez district, but birds were by no means 

 so abundant. A few miles east of Samana, and half way across the 

 bay, is a large, wooded Key, known as the Cayo Levantado, and here 

 several rare species, as well as several migrants hitherto unrecorded 

 from San Domingo, were obtained. 



San Lorenzo is an abandonefl lianana estate on the southern shore 

 of Samana Bay, almost directly opposite Samana, and ten miles dis- 

 tant. It is situated on a small bay of its own (San Lorenzo Bay), 

 into which the Cana Honda River empties, and this bay and river are 

 fringed with extensive and deep mangrove swamps. The hills and 

 mountains back of San Lorenzo are of limestone formation, and are 

 remarkable for their isolated, conical forms and numerous caves. 

 Between the hills are wide, partly swampy valleys, some of which are 

 covered with dense forests, while others are open and grassy. This 

 proved an excellent coHocting ground, and many species occin-red here 

 which were not seen elsewhere. Kl X'alle is a small interior village, 

 some twenty-five miles inland from San Lorenzo. It is built on a wide 

 and beautiful prairie. These prairies or savamuts are often swampy 

 and are covered with a luxuriant growth of coai-se high gra»s.s, with 

 numerous clumps of trees and dense underbrush scattered over them. 

 In many places deeji ravines, or arroyos. intersect the savannas, 

 and these are invariably filled with dense forest growth. The fore.sts 

 in this vicinity are almost impenetrable on account of the sharp saw- 

 gra-ss, which cuts the skin like a knife and even penetrates strong 

 clothing and leather leggings. It is (juite different from the saw-grass 

 of the southern United States, inasmuch as it climl:)s over the trees, 

 23 




354 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [.III lie, 



often completely covering tliein tn a height of twenty to thirty feet. 

 The El Valle district proved rich in species, and here were obtained a 

 number of unrecorded forms, as well as the two undescribed sjiecies. 



La Vega is a good-sized town, about seventy-five miles from Sanchez, 

 and is the inland terminal of a railway from the latter town. It is 

 built in the midst of tlie splendid \'ega Real (Royal \'alley), an immense 

 inland plain, surrounded b}' pine-covered mountains and with numer- 

 ous wooded ravines and river beds. Several rare species were taken 

 here, while in the |)ine forests of the moimtains such species as the 

 trogan and white-winged dove were found. Miranda is a small village 

 nearly forty miles inland from La Vega, and situated in the heart of the 

 wild and unsettled mountains of the island. The birds w^ere very 

 scarce in this locality, but several species not observed elsewhere 

 were obtained here. 



The climate of San Domingo is healthy and the usual tropical 

 fevers and malaria are almost unkno\vn. Typhoid fever, however, 

 is at times prevalent in the interior. Although the annual rainfall is 

 great on many portions of the island, especially at Sanchez and 

 Samand, yet it was no greater than in the majority of the Antilles, and 

 during the months of February, March, and April the island suffered 

 from a prolonged drought. The temperature is variable, ranging 

 from 85° during the day to 48° at night. This extreme variation at 

 sea level is due largely to the easterly and northerly winds which pre- 

 vail during the night, while during the daytime they ])k)W mainly 

 from the west and south. In this connection the following table may 

 be of interest: 



San Lorenzo, December 29 to January 1.3: 



Average temperature — Day (9 A.M.), 84°; night, 60°. 



Average number of rainy days, \. 



Average of barometric readings, .30.10; .30.2.5. 



El Valle, January 13 to January 19: 



Average temperature— Day (9 A.M.), 82°; night, 53°. 



Average of rainy days, ^. 



Average of barometric readings, .30.15; .30.25. 



Sanchez, January 20 to Januarv 28: 



Average of temperature— Day (9 A.M.), 83°; night,W. 



Average of rainy days, ^. 



Average barometric readings, 30.20; .30.25. 



Sanchez, February 26 to March 11 : 



Average temperature — Day (9 A.M.), 85°; night, 55°. 



Average of rainy days, ^. 



Average of barometric readings, 30.20; .30.25. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 355 



Samana, January 29 to February 25: 



Average temperature— Day (9 A.M.). 8S°; night. 63°. 



Average of rainy day.s. ^^. 



Average of barometric readings, 30.20; 30.25. 



La Vega, March 11 to March 18: 



Average temperature— Day (9 A.M.). 88°; night, 68°. 



Average of rainy days, A. 



Average of barometric readings. 30.15; 30.20. 



List of Birds obt.\ined and Notes on their Habits. 



1- Colymbas dominicus, San Domingo <; robe. 



Yabon River, San Lorenzo; Yaqui River, Miranda; rare. 



2 Podilimbus podiceps, Pieil-billed Grebe. 



Caniu River, La Vega; rare. 



3. Sterna maxima, Royal Tern, "f;avi6ta." 



Abundant in all the harbors. 



4. PelecanuB fuscus. Brown Pelicun. 



Tlif most al)undant seabird all around the coasts. 



5. Fregata aquila, Frigate-bird. 



Common in the mangrove swamps of San Lorenzo. 



6. ftuerquedula discors. Bluc-winKed Teal. 

 Common in the swamps and rivers. 



7. Aythia marila, Scanp Duck. 



One flock found in San Lorenzo Bay. 



H. Nomonyx dominions, Masked Duck. 



Colorado River, Sanchez; rare. 



9. Dendrocygna arborea, Tree Duck, "Yaguii.sa." 



Common in all swamps. This bird is frequently found feeding on 

 the fruit of the royal palm, far from any^^watcr. 



10. Gaara alba, Wliltc Ibis. "C^cn." 



Abundant in all swamps and much hunted 1)V th(> natives for food. 

 They are excellent eating. 



11. Plegadis antumnalis, Glowy Ibis. 



One specimen taken at Colorado River. 



12. Ardea caerulea caeruIesceDS, West Indiiin l.lttl"- Ului- HenMi, "Gnrwi." 



\'eiv abundant in all swamps, along the rivers and in damp meadows 

 and savanna.s. At Samana thi.s species frequent.'^ the shores and water 

 front of the town, where they act a** scavengers and are exceedingly 

 tame and unsuspicious. 




356 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



13. Batoroides viresoens macalata, West Indian (ireen Heron. "Canj^rito," " Martin- 

 VvscaAoT." 



\'ery abundant and tame. Found wherever there wa.s a pond, 

 brook or vvvn a roadside mud puddle. 



1-4 Aramua gigauteus, Linipkin. " Camini." 



Common in savannas throu<ihout the country, but seldom seen, 

 althouch frequently heard. 



15. lonornis martinioa, Purple Gallinule. 



Xot rare at San Lorenzo and in the vicinity of Sanchez. 



16. Oallinula galeata, Flori<la Gallinule. 



Common in the mangrove swamps and damp savannas. 



1" Fulioa americana. American Coot. 



Not rare in the swamps and rivers. 



18. Actitis maoularia, Spotted Sandpiper. 



Exceedingly common everywhere. 



19. Ereunetes pusillus, Least Sandpiper. 



Rare; one specimen taken at Sanchez. 



20. Gallinago delioata, Wilson's Snipe. 



Abundant at San Lorenzo and at El YaWe, where in the broad wet 

 savanna.s I found the best snipe shooting I have ever seen. The 

 natives had never seen the bird except in flight, as they are unable to 

 shoot them on the wing. 



21. .Egialitis vocifera, Killdeer. 



Cfjmmon at El \'alle; Sanchez; Samana and La Vega. 



22. JEgialitis semipalmata, Semipalmated Plover. 



Common at Samana. 



23. .Egialitis wilsoni, Wilson's Plover. 

 Common at Samana. 



24. Arenaria interpres, Turnstone. 



Common on the small sandy cays in Samand Bay. 

 2.5. (Edicnemas dominioensis, "Boukaru." 



Formerly common on all the interior savannas, but now rare. This 

 strange bird is often kept domesticated for the purpose of ridding the 

 native huts of roaches and other vermin. The eggs are dark chocolate- 

 brown, marbled with blackish. It breeds readily in captivity. The 

 natives have a peculiar method of capturing this bird alive at night. 

 They stand naked in the long grass of the prairies frequented by the 

 birds and wave fire-flies about their heads with one hand. The birds 

 approach to capture the flies and are readily captured with the free 

 hand. 




1909. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 357 



26. Nycticorax violaoeus, Yellow-crowned Xiwht Ileron. • Rev Congo." 



Very coiiiin<jn in the swamps and along the larger rivers. 



27. Ifumida meleagris, (Juinea Fowl. 



Introduced and now common in the interior of the country. Affords 

 excellent shotting. 



28. Columba leucocephala, White-headed Pigeon, •Paloma." 



The commonest of the pigeons throughout the country. These fine 

 birds are exteasively hunted and sell for from 10 cents to 25 cents 

 per pair. At certain seasons — May to September — these pigeons 

 appear in huge flocks. At other times they are shy and suspicious, 

 and are seen only singly or in pairs. They feed extensively on the 

 fruit of the mangroves. 



29. Columba corensis, S'ltiainati'd Hgeon. •• I'aloiiin Toroiz." 



Fairly common in the mangrove swamps and dense forests of the 

 interior. 



30. Columba inornata, We.^^t Indian Pigeon. 



Rarer than the preceding species and found in the same localities. 



31. Zenaidara maoroura, Mourning Dove. 



Riivc: a siiijrlc sjiecimen was obtained near La Vega. 



32. Zenaida zenaida, /.cnaidu Dove, "Tortola." 



Abundant along the river banks of the interior where they feed on 

 the seeds of a yellow-flowered, poppy-like plant. 



33. Melopelia leucoptera, w hite-winged Dove. "RoUAn." 



Rare; confined to the pine forests of the mountains of the int( rior. 



34. Oeotrygon martinica, Key West Quail-dove. " Perdiz." 



( )iily (iiic .-pccinien. ol)tained on Cayo Levantiido. in SainaiKl Hay. 



35. Oeotrygon montana, Rudely c^uail-fldve, " Perdiz Colomdo." 



.\bundant in damj), dark, open woodland throughout the republic. 

 I'articuhiriy fond of the inipenrtrable sa\v-gra.><s tliickets, into whidi 

 it riuH at the first sign of danger. Large numi)ers are trapped by the 

 natives for food. They were .sold in the markets of K\ X'ajlc foi- three 

 cents a pair. 

 M. Aocipiter fringilloidei, '.'^an Nlcnlo." •• HariN'm." 



Rare; found in all parts of the island, but ol)tain('d only at .MiiMiida. 

 37. Bapornis ridgwayi, RMg-myN Buzzard, ••Oimniguiijo." 



Hare; taken only at .Miranda, Imt seen flying over in other localities. 

 .■v<. Bateo tropicalii, >•]>■ tiov., Tniiilcal Hu/.zard. 



This fine new hawk, of which two specimens were obtained, is foti- 

 fined to the southern side of Saniaiui liay. They are a sluggish, 




35S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [.Tu!l(\ 



heavily flyinc; liird and will sit motionless for houi-s on the dead trees of 

 cleared land waiting for rats and lizards. Their note resembles that of 

 Butco latissimus. The nest is built on dead trees, preferably Ceibas, 

 at a great height from the ground. 



Description. — Male, type, San Lorenzo, Januar\- 12, 1UU7. Above, 

 sooty-brownish with a rich, metallic, purplish gloss. Scapulai-s and 

 tertials, as well as upper wing-coverts, narrowly edged ai^d tipped 

 with ashy-gray. Neck and shouldere streaked, and each feather edged, 

 with rich ferruginous. Upper tail-coverts rusty-white, barred with 

 sienna-brown. Tail rusty-ferruginous, the featliers ^\•hite at base 

 and tips, and with a subterminal bar of dusky-black, broadest on the 

 outer feathers. About seven to nine distinct, dusky bands on upper 

 surface of tail. Under surface of tail pale, rusty-white without bars. 

 Forehead, lores, orbital region and a patch on crown, pure white; 

 the last partially concealed by dusky tips to the feathers. A distinct 

 "mustache" and a narrow superciliary stripe of black. Primaries 

 and secondaries rich brown, broadly tipped with and crossed by five 

 bare of black. Outer webs of first five primaries, and about one-half 

 of the inner webs of same, dusk}' with purplish reflections. 



Below white, tinged with buffy on chest, crissum and thighs; the 

 chin and throat narrowly streaked with diLsky. Chest thickly streaked 

 with ferruginous, thickest on sides and almost confluent, forming 

 there a more or less distinct ferruginous patch. Feathere of belly 

 broadly tipped vdth. dusky, with a "dumbbell-shaped" spot near the 

 base of each feather, forming a distinct, dusky zone across the abdomen. 

 Flanks dusky brown, each feather spotted with white. Thighs barred 

 with ferruginous. Lower tail coverts buff. Under wing coverts 

 ijuffy-white streaked with sienna-brown, and with a large triangular 

 dark-l)rown patch near carpal joint. Eyes, pale yellow; feet and 

 legs, 3^ellow; cere, pale green; biU, bluish. 



Immature birds much resemble the adults, but lack the rich purple 

 gloss of upper parts, and the tail is brownish-gray, crossed Ijy about 

 ten distinct, dasky bands. 



Length, 19 to 21 inches. Wing, 14 to 14.50. Tail, 7.50 to 8. 



39. Faloo dominicensis, Dominican Sparrow-hawk. 



Not uncommon in the interior and on the northern coast. 

 4<J. Falco sparveriuB, Cuban Sparrow-liawk. 



Rare. Taken only at Miranda. 



41. Falco columbarius, PlKcon Hawk. 



Not common. Obtained at Miranda. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 359 



42. Pandion haliaetus, <>sprey. 



Abundant around the mangrove swamps, but very shy. 



•!■? Strix glaucops, San Domingo Barn-owl. ••Lechiisa." 



Common, but seldom seen during the day. 



4-1. Speotyto dominioensis, San Domingo Burrowing-owl, "Tucil." 



CVjnimon on the dry prairies between La ^'^ega and Santiago, as well 

 as in the vicinity of Azua on the southwestern coast. 



45. Conurns ohldropterus, Parroquet, " Periniiito." 



Rare and confined to certain localities, as El Valle and Matanzas. 

 They feed on the fruit of the royal palm and are himted by the natives 

 for food. 



46. Amazona sallaei, Sallt*'.'< Parrot, " C'oturro." 



Coinnioii throughout the island, but particularly abundant diu'ing 

 the months of January and February when the seeds of the "Guama" 

 trees are ripe. Large numljei-s are killed for food and many are taken 

 from the nests and tamed. They are very gentle in captivity and are 

 splendid talkers. 



47. Crotophaga ani, .\ni, "Jiidio." 



Abundant everv^Avhere. The native name — "Judio'' or Jew — 

 refers to the heavy, roman-nosed beak. 



4«. Coooyzas minor, Mungrove Cuckoo, " Mouti-ro." 



Abundant in some localities and entirely al^sent in others near by. 

 This l>ird was particularly connn(jn at .San Loi'cnzo and El N'alle, but 

 was never .seen at Sanchez, sixteen miles distant, although it was (piite 

 common at La Vega and throughout the interior. 

 4'.». Coccyzas maynardi, Ma>Miftnl's ('nckfHj. 



Rare. One specimen obtained a i San Lorenzo. 

 no. Saurothera dominicensis, San DominKoC'uckiMi, " iioIkj," 



Abuntlant in all portions of the republic, Tliey are very tame 

 and stupid. a.s implied by the native name of "Bol)o," meaning a fool. 

 This bird is eaten by the natives as a cwvr for stouiafh troubh-s. 

 51. Hyetornis fleldii. 



Met with only in'tween .Miranda and La Vega. 

 :>2. Temnotrogan roseigaster, San DoinlnBoTnwui. •• Pn|« Kayo." 



Common in the pine forests al)out La \'('ga and .Miraixla, but vvry 

 shy and dilRcult to obtain. They pcrdi m(»tionU*ss in thi- pine trees, 

 and their colors blond perfectly with that of tlie pine needles and red- 

 disli bark. \ 



5.3. Ceryle aloyon. Helt..i Kln^'flshur. 



Common near water pver\'where. Hreed's. 




360 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



M Todus subulatus, Toly, " Burniiuall. " 



Abundant at all localities visited. \'erv tame and unsuspicious. 

 On one occasion one of these birds actually alighted on my gun-barrel, 

 as I stood motionless near a small stream. The note of this bird is a 

 frog-like croak. The nest is built in holes in iho lianks of streams; 

 eggs pure white. 



55. Todas angustirostris, XniTow-billed Tculy, " Harraiu-iili eliico." 



The habits and note of this species are similar to the preceding, 

 but it is not so connnon and is very local in its distribution. I foimd 

 it more common than subulatus at San Lorenzo and El Valle, but did 

 not meet with it at all at Sanchez, and saw but one or two individuals 

 at Samana. In the interior it was aliout as abundant as subulatus. 



56. Picumnus lawrenoei, Lawreiife's I'itrniy Woodpecker. 



This odd little bird is rather rare, although possibly its apparent 

 scarcity is due to its quiet and retiring habits and dull coloring 

 which render it inconspicuous. It was not known to any natives 

 I met, and was oljtaiiud only at Sanchez and Samana. 



57. Melanerpes striatus, Woodpecker, " Carpintero " 



This is the most abundant and destructive bird on the island. It 

 is seen everywhere and there is hardly a palm tree in the republic that 

 is not riddled with its holes. It feeds on fruits, oranges, and cacao- 

 pods and frequently ruins the crop. 



Fortunately its increase is kept down by a fatal provision of nature 

 in the shape of a parasitic worm which infests the throat and head. 

 This worm matures at the season when the young woodpeckers are 

 able to leave the nest, and after that time it is practically impossible 

 to find an adult Melanerpes alive. The ground beneath the nests is 

 often strewn with dead and dying adult birds, their throats and 

 crops so distended with the disgusting parasites as to render them 

 incapable of flight. 



58. Chordeiles minor, Cuban N'iijhthawk. 



Common on the open savannas of the interior. 



59. AntrostomuB oarolinensis, Chuck-Will.s Widow. "Quiere Beb^r." 



Not rare in the more open portions of wooded hillsides and (jn open 

 savannas. Sanchez; La \'ega; El Valle. 



60. CypBeloides niger, Black Swilt, "Golondrina neispro." 



Common in the interior and at Samana. 



61. Cypselus phGenicobinB, Swift. 



Common along the Camu River at La Vega. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361 



62. Chaetnra zonaris, Collared Swift. 



Thi.s large swift is common at La ^'ega and in the interior, biit 

 usually flies at such an elevation that it is very difficult to shoot. 



63. Lampornis dominioas, " Zumbador." 



Tliis huniminii-bird is common throughout the island. 

 61. Mellisuga minima, " Zumbadorito." 



This tiny atom of bird life is very common at all points visited. It 

 is remarkable for its loud and penetrating song, which it gives fortli 

 hour after hour, as it perches on some slender twig or on the topmo.^^t 

 leaf of some palm tree. 

 65. Sporadinus elegans. 



I found this iiandsonie humming-biixl at all points visited, but most 

 abundant at El \'alle. It loves dark woods and swanijis and dashes 

 suddenly into sight, only to fla.sh off almost Ijefore the giui can be 

 raised to siioulder. 

 W. Tyrannus dominicensis, Gray Kingbird, "PeTigre." 



\'ery common everywhere. 

 6". Pitang^s gabbii, Ciabb's Pctarchy. 

 Rare; found only at Miranda. 



68. Myiarchus dominicensis, Oomiiiiiuii Crrstt'd Flycatclur. •■ Manuelito." 



Common in most localities. 



69. Blacicus hispaniolensis, HLspanioIa Flycatcher. 

 Conunou in most places. 



70. Lawrencia nanus. 



Ivxtrcuicly rare; found at Mii'anda only. 



71. Elaina cherriei. 



One specimen taken at .Miranda. 



72. Corvns leucognaphalus, Cruw, "Cuervo." 



.\l)undant in tiie mangrf>ve swamps, but so ficciucntly inintcd for 

 food that they are shy and suspicious. At San Lorenzo iniincnse 

 flocks of this crow flew back and forth from their roosts in the mountains 

 to their feeding grounds in the swamps, at morninir and e\riiing. but 

 always at a great elevation. 



Their note resembles the words "Quiero ca.sa earrajo." and the 

 natives firmly Ijelieve that they can understand an<l converse in 

 Spanish. Their calls certainly more nearly resembh- human speech 

 than anything else. 



73. Coryus solitariut, Solitary Crow, " Cao." ^ 

 Rarer than the preceding and confined to the int( rior. The hal)its 



and notes are nuich the same as of the last. 




362 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



"I- Icterus dominicensis, Shh Domingo Oriole, " Slpus ralAndre." 



This l)iixl, wliifh is a charming songster, is common at all points 

 visited. It is found in small flocks, the young males, females and 

 males keeping in separate flocks. 



75. Quiscalus niger, Black Grackle, "Chlnchiling." 



Abuiulant at all points visited, although mainly found in the vicinity 

 of houses and settlements. It is a noisy creature, continually uttering 

 its loud, liquid crv of "Chiniling-ling-eeee." 



76. Quiscalus sp'.'. 



Among the Quiscali obtained were a number which to me appear 

 distinct from niger, as they are much larger and heavier, with relatively 

 stouter bill and feet. The note is quite distinct from that of 7iig€r, 

 and the natives state that they are different. Dr. Hartert, of Tring, 

 thinks, however, that the difference is merely sexual. 



"7. Loximitris dominicensis, Dominican Grosbeak. 



I found thi.s pretty species abundant in certain localities near La 

 Vega. They were always found in large flocks in open pasture land, 

 and in habits, flight and notes much resembled the American Gold- 

 finch. They fed on wild guava fruit. They are shy, restless birds and 

 are usually found in flocks of a dozen to twenty individuals. Some- 

 times they will remain until the intruder approaches within a few 

 yards, while at other times they take flight long before one can approach 

 Anthin guiLshot. They are fond of perching on dead or partly dead 

 bushes and trees in open prairie or pasture land, near rivers or on the 

 edges of thickets, and invariably fly into the latter or across the 

 former when disturbed. 



78. Loxigilla violacea, Violet Loxigilla, '• Prleto" (male), '• Cliichiffua " (female). 



Abundant in all parts of the island. 



79. Tiaris bicolor, Gras.sqult, "Juana Maruca." 



Common in most places. In a few localities entirely replaced by 7\ 

 lepida, as examples at El Valle and in some spots near La \'ega. 



»0. Tiaris lepida, Yellow-faced Grass<iuit. 



Abundant at La ^'ega, El Valle and other localities, but entirely 

 absent from the vicinity of Sanchez and Samand. 



^l. Ammodramus savannarum intricatas. 



This new species, described l;y Dr. Ernst Hartert from specimens 

 obtained by me at El Valle, is very common on the broad grassy 

 savannas of that region. They are difficult to shoot as they flit up 

 from the dense grass, to disappear in it again almost instantly. The 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 363 



note is short, weak and iiLsect-like, and greatly resembles that of our 



own Grasshopper Sparrow. 



82. Euphonia musica, Musical Euphonia. 



All the specimens of this rare species which I obtained were killed 

 from a single tree near Sanchez. It was never seen or heard elsewhere. 

 The first specimen was taken on February 26. It was feeding on a 

 parasitic \'ine with greenish- white berries, resembling mistletoe. A 

 few moments later several additional birds arrived and commenced 

 feeding, although none had ever been seen there before, and the tree 

 was one from which I secured birds daily. For several days thereafter 

 the Euphonias could always be found on this tree, although none were 

 ever seen elsewhere. They are quiet, slow moving birds and crawl 

 about in the deliberate, parrot-Uke manner of others of the genus. 

 The song is very clear, liquid and musical, closely resembling that of 

 the \Vhite-throated Sparrow. 

 ■S3. Spindalis multicolor, I'aiuted Tanager. 



This rare and beautiful bird is a good example of the cla.'^s of birds 

 common at one season and very rare at othei^s. Not a single Ijird of 

 this species was seen previous to January *22, 1907, on which date I 

 obtained a single female at Sanchez. Xo others were seen until Fel> 

 ruary 26. and then, in a single week, over sixty specimens were secured 

 within a radius of one hundred yards. After the last date no othei-s 

 could be found. 



All these specimens were feeding on the reddish-purple berries ot a 

 parasitic plant. They are verj' curious birds in their habits, and 

 quite different from any other species with which I am familiar. They 

 arrive and depart from their feeding grounds so suddenly and silently 

 that one must watch constantly in order to see them. Wiiile feeding 

 they are also silent and stand alnK)st motionless in one spot until 

 all the berries within reach are consumed, when they dart suddenly 

 to another spot and repeat the operation. The males are fond of iierdi- 

 ing in dense thiekets or among dumps of thickly growing air-plants, 

 singing tlieir feeble, iasect-like song. They are very shy and at the 

 least movement or noise cease their notes and remain m<jtionless, and 

 if discovered at once da-^h into the thickest growth, wiiere it is impossi- 

 ble to follow them. 

 fH. Phoenicophilat dominioanaB. 



Rare; only foun<l at .Miranda. 

 8.7. Phoenicophilui palmaram, ■'Cuarto6j<)««." \ 



Thi.> beautiful tanager was abundant everywhere. Its habits 

 resemble those of a vireo more than tliose of a tanager. 




364 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [JuilC, 



S<"'. Calyptophilus frugivorus. 



Hare at must places visiteil. I.a \ rga and Miramla only. 

 87. Progne dominioensis, S^" Di)miiij,'o Martin. 



Common near the coasts. 

 8S. Petroohelidon falva, v'ubnn Clitr-swallow, "Cioloiulrlna." 



Common at most localities visited. 



«9. Hirundo sclateri, Sclater'ir Swallow, " Golondrina viJrdc." 



This most beautiful sjiecies was met with only at La \'('jia, whei-e 

 it was ahuiulant along the Camu River. 

 W. Dulus dominicus, ■■ Sitruu palmcTa." 



This odd l)ird is exce.ssively abundant throughout the island. It 

 is gregarious and breeds in colonies in huge nests, which are usually 

 placed in the royal palms. They are nois}'^, restless creatures, and 

 the cries from a nest of these birds during the breeding season can 

 be heard for half a mile. I was unable to determine whether each 

 female had a compartment in the huge nests, or if they deposited their 

 eggs and sat upon them at random. I am inclined to think the latter 

 is the case, however, as the eggs are scattered through the nest, with 

 no apparent attempt at order, and 1 do not believe that even the 

 parent Vnrds could identify the young, that scramble back and forth 

 throughout the nest. 



The old nests are torn down ])odily by the birds and often huge 

 piles of old nesting materials are scattered on the ground beneath the 

 palms where they breed. When they wish to destroy a nest, several 

 hundred birds will seize hold of the structure and by pulUng and tug- 

 ging vaU. succeed in tearing it from its support. They are curious, 

 inquisitive creatures and always gather about and protest vigorously 

 at the report of a gun. 



91. Vireo calidris, West ludian Vireo, "Qi'iien ftie"; "JuanChivi." 



Common everywhere. The two local names refer to the note. 

 The first, meaning "Who Goes There," is very appropriate, as the bird 

 always becomes restless at one's approach, and repeats the short, perti- 

 nent query over and over, at times being answered by another vireo 

 in notes that resemble the words "Juan Chivi." 



'j2. Coereba bananivora, Banana Creeper, " Slifua." 

 Coinnioii in most places. 



93. Mniotilta varia, Black and White Warbler. 



Abundant migrant. 

 9i. Parala americana, Parula Warbler. 

 \'erv common during migrations. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 365 



9-5. Dendroica tigrina, Cape May Warbier. 



Al)uiulant. Among the large series of specimens of this species 

 which I obtained, there appear to be two forms; one, the common 

 North American bird; the other, more richl}' colored, with distinctly' 

 chestnut brea.st. deep-yellow wing-bare, and rich — almost (jrange — 

 yellow breast and belly. As young birds in nestling plumage, as well 

 as females containing eggs ready for the nest, were obtained. I consider 

 it possible to separate the resident bird from the northern form as a 

 local variety or subspecies. 



96. Dendroica coerulescens, Black-throated Blue Warbler. 

 An abundant migrant. 



97. Dendroica coronata, MjTtle Warbler. 

 Very common during migrations. 



98. D. maculosa, Mag^nolia Warbler. 



A rare migrant, one specimen taken at Samand. 



99. D. dominica, Yellow-throated Warbler. 

 A common species. 



100. D. vigorsii, Pine Warbler. 



Common in pine forests of the interior where it breeds. 



101. D. palmarnm, I'alm Warbler. 

 \n al)uiidaiit migrant. 



102. D. discolor, I*rairif Warbler. 



A common migrant. 



103. Seiurus aurocapillus, ov«n Mird. 



An abundant spoci&s during the migrations. 



104. 8. motacilla, I.arge-blllcd Water-thrush. 



Common during migrations, but confined to the vicinity of sail 

 water. 



Wj. 8. noveboracensis, Srnall-blliefl Water-thru.sh. 

 Coiiuuori. but seen only near fresh water. 



106. Geothlypis trichaa, Maryland Yellowthroai. 

 Common. 



107. Microlegia palustris. 



Said to be common in various part.s of the coimtry. Init only met with 

 once, at El Valle. 



108. Setophaga ruticilla, American Hetlmnri. ^ 

 Abini<laiit during migrations. 




366 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [JunCr 



lO".i Mimus dominicus. i^n Domingo MockiiiKl'ird. " Kiiisenor." 



An aljiindant and charming songster. 



11(1. Mimooichla ardesiaoa, •'CalAndre,"" CafltMo," " FloWro. " 



A connium but shy inhabitant of woods and thickets, this l)ird is 

 more fivijiiently heard than seen. Its note is a charming, flute-Uive 

 whistle. 



111. Tardus alioiae, Alice's Thrush. 



A rare migrant. One specimen taken near Sanchez. 



112. Myiadestes montanus, "Jilfn'iero." 



Xot uncommon, but, hke the other members of the genus, shy and 

 retiring. The mournful, flute-like song of this bird is often heard in 

 the mountainous districts. It is very difficult to see or shoot the birds. 

 Sanchez and Miranda. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 367 



A NEW SPECIES OF SCALPELLUM FROM BRITISH COLUMBIA. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



Scalpellum (Arcoscalpellum) columbianum n. sp. Figs. 1, 2. 



The capituluni is much C()nipre.s.sed, more than twice as long as wide,, 

 white under a ven^ thin smooth pale yellowish cuticle ; occludent border 

 straight, carinal border evenly arched; greatest width aljout median. 

 There is no sculpture aside from indistinct gro^\•th-lines. 



The scutum has parallel occludent and internal margins, and is rather 

 narrow, with apical ur ilo. 



The tergum is long, triangular, its occludent margin short, arched, 

 apex slightly recurved; the scutal and carinal margins are very long 

 and nearly straight. 



The carina is ver\' long, with well-developed parietes of nearly ecjual 

 width ; dorsal face very narrow throughout, and deeply guttered, the 

 high bordering ribs about as wide as the intervening groove or gutter. 

 It is more curved near the apex, which is situated high, about at the 

 upper sixth of the carinal side of the tergum. At its base the carina 

 intrudes between the umbones of the carinal latcra. 



The upper latus is roughly trapezoidal, the scutal and carinal 

 borders parallel, upper border obli(|ue, basal border convex. 



The rostrum is minute, oblong, slightly contracted in the middle. 



The rostral latus is rather low, triangular, the upper and lower 

 margins converging toward the rostral apex. 



The inframedian latus is narrowly sul)triangular, spreading al)ove, 

 narrowed towards the l)ase. The miibo is near or at the lower third. 



The carinal latus is subtriangular, the umbo projecting at the base 

 of the carina, far below the bases of the other plates. 'I'hc ciiiiiiai 

 border is straight above, becoming concave near the Ijase. 



The peduncle is short, covered with scales, of which there arc aliout 

 If) rows (»f about 10 scales each. They are not regularly arranged. 



Length of capitulum HJ), width AA, diameter \M mm.; length of 

 carina 7.25 mm.; length of peduncle .'J mm. (fig. 1). 



Length of capitulum 7.7, width '.iM nun.; length (»f carina (i.S nun., 

 of perluncle 4 mm. (fig. 2). ^ 



Lowe Inlet, Hritish Columbia. 'l"yj>e (fig. 1) No. .'iS.()97 \'. S. .\af. 




368 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADKMY OF 



[.luly, 



Mvir?. Cotype No. 1,S43 A. N. S. P. (fig. 2). A third speciiMcn, from 

 Burrard Inlet, is in the collection of Rev. George W. Taylor, Biological 

 Station, Woiliniiton. B. C. wlxt coilcctt'd the specimens. 



Fig. 1. 



Fig. 2. 



This species is known by three specimens of about equal size, which 

 were preserved dry; hence no examination of the internal organs 

 has been attempted. It is related to Scalpellum soror Pils.^ from deep 

 water (634 fathoms), near the Galapagos Islands, but differe from that 

 species by the more lengthened capitulum, the larger and somewhat 

 differently shaped upper inframedian and carinal latera, the more com- 

 pressed carina and shorter peduncle. The carina of S. columbianum 

 reaches farther up on the tergum than is usual in Scalpellum. 



S. sanctipetrense Pils.^ is a broader species than S. columbianum, 

 with a narrower inframedian latus, having the umVjo at its upper third. 

 It was taken at San Pedro, California, in 50 to 75 fathoms. S. gravel- 

 ianum Pils., another Calif ornian species, is larger than S. columbianum, 

 the inframedian latus smaller with apical umbo. 



» Bulletin 60, U. S. National Museum, p. 42. 

 *L.c., p. 39. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 369 



NOTE ON THE MORPHOLOGY OF FULGTJR. 

 BY BURNETT SMITH. 



On the whole the marine gastropods are singularly free from indi- 

 vidual abnormalities or deformations, and this rule holds good for 

 the two large eonchs {Fulgur carica Gmelin and F. canaliculatum 

 Say) which are washed upon our Atlantic Coast in such large numbers 

 during the winter storms. As far as the writer knows there is no record 

 of an aljnormal individual of F. carica. F. canaliculatum, on the 

 other hand, has furnished a small number of deformed specimens 

 which have found their way into museums. Some of these have been 

 described and figured. 



Deformations of the Shell in F. canaliculatum. — In the museum of 

 the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia there are two ab- 

 normal shells of this species. In the fii'st of these the branchial 

 siphon has grown in such a way that its direction is almost at right 

 angles to the axis of coiling of the spire. From an examination of 

 the exterior of the shell it is impossible to state with certainty the 

 causes of this condition. WTiether it is the result of accident or of 

 some truly pathologic condition cannot be determined.* The second 

 specimen, collected at Longport, New Jersey, was figured and de- 

 scribed by the present writer.' In this case the deformation can 

 be traced to a break in the shell which occurred at a relatively early 

 stage in the ontogeny, 'ihe result of this has been a complete change 

 in the whorl form and sculpture, the tubercles and shoulder keel 

 disappear and we have a smooth, rounded whorl very similar to that 

 of F. pyrum Dilw. In this connection it is interesting to note that 

 paleontological data points to the descent of F. pyrum either from 

 /''. canaliculatum or from some very closely allied form, and further- 

 more that this descent was marked by the almost cntniilct*' disappear- 



*".\ Rf'm.'xrkal)!*' MoMHtro.sitv of FulRur rannliculafum," ('. W. Joliiisiui jiiid 

 H. .\. Pilj^lTV. The Xaulilus, Jiily, W.h'), ]>. J.'i, n^. 1. 



'Pror. .Vriul. Nat. Sci. Philu., June, lyOL', p. .V)7. and April, I'M).''). |). 3-58, 

 PI. XXXI, fig. 10. 

 24 




370 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [-'uly, 



anco (throujih acceleration) of tlie shoulder keel and tlie assunii)tion 

 of a smooth, rounded whorl outline. In other words we iiave here a 

 striking parallel of an evolutional process which has taken i)lace 

 slowly durinc; geolofiical time and resulted in the change of one species 

 into another, with a change which has been caused In- accident in the 

 growth of an individual. 



In this Longport specimen the animal when "washed ashore fortu- 

 nately possessed the soft parts intact. A carefull examination of 

 these disclosed no unusual condition other than the fact that the 

 mantle was rounded instead of angulated. The mantle edge was in 

 noway peculiar and the penis. which in the normal male underlies the 

 shoulder angle, was fully developed and exactly similar to that found 

 in other individuals. In fact no peculiarity of the soft parts could 

 be detected which would account for the causes of the change in shell 

 growth. 



Abnormality in the Soft Parts of F. canaliculatum. — In the specimen 

 just described the absence of a shoulder angle in the mantle and in 

 the shell does not seem to 



be connected in any way k /? 



with the underlying repro- I \ 



ductive organ. Fig. 1 shows "^ 



the character of the normal, pi„ 2—Fxdqurcan- 

 backward folded penis which oUculanan Say. 

 T • J- i 1 u 1 ii. Diagram showing 



lies immediately below the i,ndov(.loped mall 



shoulder angle. Inasmuch, reproductive or- 



then, as we have noted an ^^"' 



r- , c' ; individual with abnormal shell but with normal 



rig. 1 — tulguTcan- 



aliculnium Say. reproductive organs, it is of interest to call 



Diagram showing attention to another specimen collected by 

 the nonnal male . . ^ . "^ 



reproductive or- the writer which has an entirely normal shell 



K*"- but whose reproductive organs are imperfect 



(fig. 2). In this case the penis is small, not being more than one- 

 fifth the usual length. If this condition had been the result of an 

 injury to the penis we might expect to find traces of its original con- 

 dition at least around its base. This, however, is not shown for the 

 base is small, having about one-half the normal width. We are there- 

 fore justified, it is believed, in regarding this as an instance of arrested 

 development in a particular organ. No other abnormalities in the 

 soft parts were observed and, as stated before, the shell is in ever}^ 

 regard similar to that of the normal individual. 



The Penis of F. carica. — Some interesting points in the compara- 




1909.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



371 



Fie. 3 — Fulgiir rarica 

 Gnieliii. Di;ip;rain 

 showing the normal 

 male reproductive 

 organ . 



tive morpholog}^ of F. canaliculatujyi and F. carica are furnished 



by a study of the male reproductive organ. 



In the former species the penis is turned 



backward and folded (fig. 1). It likc\\ise 



retains the same ^Wdth at the distal end as 



at the proximal, while in addition the terminal 



process is relatively large. In F. carica, on 



the other hand, the organ tapei-s gradually 



from the proximal to the distal end and the 



terminal proce.ss is very small (fig. 3). The 



penis though turned backward is not folded 



at the turn as in F. canalicidatum. 



Influence of the Soft Parts on Shell Form and 

 Sculpture. — No one, of coui-se, denies that all 

 the features of the gastropod shell, its form, 



size and ornamentation, are the result of changes in the lime-secreting 

 soft parts. A shoulder keel, for instance, is caused \)y a permanent 

 angle, while a spine represents the effect of a temporary elevation 

 of the mantle. Wliat is it though which produces this temporary 

 bulging of the mantle edge? "VVliat is the physiological meaning of 

 the spine? This is a question which has never yet been satisfactorily 

 answered in spite of many ingenious suggestions. One view, often 

 expressed, holds that the spines represent an activity of the mantle 

 edge which is manifested at recurrent reproductive periods. This 

 may indeed be true, but it is yet to be proved. 



To apply the discussion tf) the forms considered in this jiapor we 

 may ask: Have the spines in Fulcjur carica any connection with 

 either copulation or oviposition? Though this question could prol)- 

 ably be solved at one of our marine lai)oratones. its solution ha.s 

 apparently never been attempted. In tlie absence, then, of definite 

 information on the subject.it is believed tiiat it is pertinent to outline 

 here certain objections which might be rai.sed against the above 

 thef)ry. 



(1) If the spines are cau.sed l)y oviposition there is a difficulty in 

 explaining their etjiuil development in botii the male and the female. 



(2) If the spines are caased by the act of copulation there is likewise 

 a difficulty in explaining their exact similarity in the two sexes. 



To extend (mw iiuiuiry to FuUjur camiliculatum/it is first to Ik' noted 

 that this species has no true spines. In this form the s])ines have 

 disappeared, their former presence being shown by the small tubercles 

 which have l)een crowded l)ack bv accelerati<»rj into the early whorls. 




372 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



It is difficult therefore to believe that spine production in FuU/ur is 

 tlie result of reproductive activity when we regard these two Atlantic 

 Coast species, with equally well developed reproductive organs and 

 with presumably similar habits of oviposition, the one spineless and 

 the other spined. l^y an examination of the penis in the two species we 

 can select no character in one which should produce a spine, or in the 

 other case state why the protrusion of the penis should not produce 

 a spine. 



Considering now the shoulder keel, which seems to be the evolu- 

 tional successor of the row of spines, we know by actual observation 

 that the non-development of the penis in F. canaliculatum does not 

 necessarily afTect the keel, while, on the other hand, an injured keel- 

 less individual may jjossess the organ in its normal condition. 



From these facts we can be reasonably confident that the shoulder 

 keel has no connection with reproductive activity. When it comes to 

 the spines, however, we can but say that there are no charactei-s in 

 the penis of F. canaliculatum which we can definitely correlate with 

 the spineless condition of the shell, and in F. carica we can assign to 

 the different form of the organ no cause for the development of spines. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 373 



THE VEGETATION OF THE SALT MARSHES AND OF THE SALT AND FKESH 

 WATER PONDS OF NORTHERN COASTAL NEW JERSEY. 



BY JOHN AV. HARSHBERGER. 



In a number of papere' of greater or less length, 1 have discussed 

 the character of the vegetation of the New Jersey coast. The obser- 

 vatioas recorded in these various brochures cover territorially the 

 immediate coast from Bay Head in the north to Cape May in the 

 south, and were based on field work and on the study of collections 

 made for the several large herbaria in Philadelphia. During a resi- 

 dence at Belmar, Xew Jereey, from August 12 to September 15, 1908, 

 and July 7 to Septembers, 1909, an opportunity was afforded of making 

 collectioas, and of completing a survey of the vegetation of the New 

 Jereey coast, begun in 1893, by a study of the coast from Manasquan 

 Inlet north to Sandy Hook and along Sandy Hook Bay several miles 

 westward from Highland Beach. 



On several railroad trips from Belmar to New \'(irk City. I was al)le, 

 by a familiarity ^vith the coastal flora for over a period of fifteen yeare, 

 to e.xtend my observations, while on the moving trains, as far north 

 as the Hudson River, notably at Red Bank on the Navesink River, at 

 Matawan on Matawan Creek, along Newark I5ay — in fact, such obser- 

 vatioas were made wherever undisturbed salt mai-shes were crossed 

 by the Central Railroad of New Jereey and the Penasylvania Railioad 

 between Belmar and Jersey City. So that, although the description 

 given in this paper is confined to the coast between Manasquan Inlet 

 and Sandy Hook Bay, where collections and a field study were made, 

 yet it can be said that, from the car-window observations,' essentially 



' HarshlxTKcr, Jolm W.: Plant,-* for tlic S'jLshore, Garden and Forest, V: 4.5; 

 An Ecological Study of tho Now .Jersey Strand Flora, Proceed! mj!< of the Academy 

 of Natural Sclencen of Philadelphia, 1900: r)2;i-()71 ; .\dditional ( M)scr\iition8 

 on the Strand Flora of New Jersey, do., 1<K)2: (U2-»)<1'.»; Forest (Jrowtli at Wild- 

 wood, New Jersey, Forest Leaves, I,\: 40, June. WMV.i; The Mut.'ifion of Hihiscutt 

 moscheyitos. Proceedings of the Academi) of Satitral Sciences of I'hiladel i)hia, HK)3: 

 326; Tho Fonnation and Structure of the Myco<loinati.'i of M i/rica cerifcra, do., 

 1903: .3.')2-.'}r)2 ; The f'oin|)arativr I<.:if Structure of the Strand Plants of Xew 

 Jersey, Proccedirujs of the American Philoso]ihical Society, XLN'III: 72 S9, with 

 4 plates. 



'This hn-s l)eon the favorite niethfKl of Dr. Roland M. HarjMr in his study 

 of the coa.stal flora of the Southern State.s. It is fairly satisfactory oh extending 

 the range of certain type.s of vegetation, htit is iinscientific unles.s checked In* 

 actual collections and study of a .section of the plant fonnatioiLs invostigat*.'^!, a.s 

 put into practice above. 




374 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



the same type of salt niai'sh vegetation exists as far north as New York 

 City. 



Early in the field work it became apparent that my entire time and 

 attention could l)e devoted to the salt marsh and pond vegetation of 

 tiie region covered by this phyt (^geographic survey, for a study of the 

 flora of the sea beaches and sand dunes, which are not extensive on the 

 northern New Jersey coast, revealed the fact that the same association 

 of shore and dune plants existed north of Manasquan Inlet a.s south of 

 it as far as Cape May. The vegetation of the salt marshes, salt ponds 

 and fresh water ponds of the noiihern New Jersey coast present so 

 many features of interest that it was fortunate that my undivided 

 attention could be given to its study, so that the dune flora will be 

 mentioned in what follows only when necessary in elucidating the 

 composition of juxtaposed plant formations. 



Physiography of the Regiox. 



No mention is made of the ponds which are characteristic of the 

 northern shore of New Jersey in the works that have been published 

 on the physiography of New Jersey. Several of them at Ocean Grove 

 and Asbury Park have been surrounded by embankments, and are 

 used for pleasure craft and for winter and summer carnivals. Begin- 

 ning at Manasquan Inlet in the south and traveling northward, one 

 encounters the following bodies of water, which will be designated as 

 open or closed to the ocean, and therefore fresh or salt ^ 



Manasquan Inlet (open and salt). 



Newberrj' Lake = Stockton Lake (open and salt, connected with 

 Manasquan River). 



Wreck Pond (open and salt in 1908; closed during the summer of 

 1909 and fresh until August 13, 1909, when it was opened to let in 

 the salt water). 



Spring Lake (closed and fre.sh). 



Como Lake (closed and fresh). 



Silver Lake (closed and fresh; pleasure lake). 



Shark River Inlet (open, with strong tidal movement to and from 

 the sea; closed on July 23, 1909, by the formation of a sand bar during 

 a southeast storm; opened again August 12, 1909). 



Sylvan Lake = Duck Pond (closed and fresh, but connected with 

 sea at very high tides). 



' The following maps, published under the auspice.s of the Geological Survey 

 of New Jersey, will be found u.seful: Atlas Sheet S'o. 9, Monmouth Shore, 1902; 

 Xavesink Sheet, 1901; Long Branch Sheet, 1901; Shark Kiver Sheet, 1903. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 375 



Fletcher Lake (closed and fresh; pleasure lake). 



Wesley Lake (closed and fresh; pleasure lake). 



Sunset Lake (closed and fresh; pleasure lake). 



Deal Lake (open by a closed sluice gate filled \nth sand and totally 

 fresh). 



Whale Pond = Takanassee Lake (open by a made channel, but 

 entirely fresh). 



ShrewsbuF}' River (opening northward into Sandy Hook Bay and 

 navigable to large excursion steamers). 



All of these ponds, whether fresh or salt, have had essentially the 

 same physiographic history. They have all started as the outlets of 

 larger or smaller streams, which flowed sluggislily seaward from a 

 more elevated but still ahnost level interior, L'pon reaching the 

 immediate sea coast, these streams had to contend with the sand of 

 the traveling beaches, which form an almost unbroken line for a 

 thousand miles from Montauk Point, on the eastern end of Long Island, 

 to Jupiter Inlet, in Florida. These sandy beaches never maintain the 

 same relative pasition, but are moved about by the ocean currents and 

 more fickle winds. Since the beaches have been inhabited by summer 

 and winter residents attempts have been made to stop the movement 

 of the sand by the construction of jetties, stone walls and revetments, 

 with some degree of success, but in the past the action of nature's forces 

 were untrammeled. The continuity of such beaches is broken only 

 by the action of a river. The Hudson River, flowing out of New York 

 Bay, breaks the beach between the Navesink Higlilands and Long 

 Island. Tiiere has been a big contest for supremacy between the 

 beach and the river. Coney Island has crept out like a crooked finger 

 from the east, and Sandy H(K)k has traveled up several miles from the 

 south. But the great river has kept open its channel to the sea, not- 

 withstanding the fact that Fire Island Inlet has drifted to the west at 

 the average rate of three miles in sixty yeai^s, or nearly 260^feet per 

 annum. The encroachment of these bars threatens the channels 

 which lead into the Narrows and New York Bay, so that until recently 

 the largest steamers had to wait outside for the tides, wiiile the least 

 deviation from the channel insured their grounding. All of the rivers 

 soutii of Sandy Uonk have had a simihir contest with the sand beaches. 

 The Shrewsbur}' and Navesink rivers liave had such a struggle to keep 

 open their outlet to the sea.* The sandy Ix'ach, however, succeeded in 



^Consult the facsimile made from a survey map by Ratser in 1769 and |>ul>- 

 lishpd in England in 1777, whrro thrsc rivrrs am n-prosfntcd a.s op«-n to thnsi-a. 

 ,\ls<) the pajHTS hy Prof. I,«'wi.s M. H.'iiij)f (Anriunl lirjutrt Stiitr (iitihxjixt of Sew 

 Jrrsci/, 190.5: 27-95; 11H»7: 72-Sl), where l)y photoRniph.s and diiiKr.-uiis the 

 changes of the New Jersey coa.st line are well illimt rated. 




37b PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aufl., 



closinj; the mouths of both riveI■s^, which uiiiti'd together into a common 

 stream, cutting its way past the Navesink Highlands and emptying into 

 Sandy Hook Bay. Even to-day the low sand beach is so narrow that 

 often the sea breaks entirely over it, and this is particularly true of 

 the portion immediately in front of the Navesink Highlands, for here 

 it is barely wide enougli to accommodate dou])le railroad tracks and a 

 carriage road, protected as they are from the full force of the ocean 

 storms and high tides by a sea wall of stone and piling. This narrow 

 strip of sand, about six miles long, connects Sandy Hook with the 

 mainland. All of the smaller streams have been obliged to meet the 

 same sand encroachment; but many of them, unable to keep their 

 outlets open, have been converted into salt ponds, and if shut off 

 from the sea for any length of time they have been gradually trans- 

 formed into fresh water ponds. Only two of the larger rivers have 

 been equal to the task of cutting through the barrier beach, viz., 

 Shark River and Manasquan River. The outlet of Shark River several 

 years ago had been almost closed, except a narrow channel which one 

 could step across at low tide; but in the summer of 1908 the river 

 had a new lease of life, its inlet opened wider than ever, so that naphtha 

 launches drawing several feet of water entered from the open ocean. 

 During the summer of 1909, however, the sand barrier had traveled so 

 far north that a southeast storm on July 23, 1909, completely closed 

 the inlet .^ 



We can arrange the inlets and ponds in a regular sequence, with 

 reference to the stage which they have reached in their developmental 

 history (see note 16), beginning as ocean inlets and ending in closed fresh 

 water ponds. In an earlier paragraph I have arranged all the known 

 bodies of water in geographic order. Their jjhysiographic sequence is 

 somewhat as follows: 



1. Salt Water^ (Active Tidal Flow). 



Manasquan River; Shark River (open until July 23, 1909, when 

 it closed, to be opened Ijy digging away the bar on August 13, 

 1909) ; Navesink and Shrewsbury Rivei's; Wreck Pond (open and 

 salt in 1908, closed by a sand bar and fresh during 1909 until 

 August 13, when the inlet was opened to the sea). 



* The only open inlet from Bamegat Inlet to Sandy Hook during the summer 

 of 1909 after July 2.3, when Shark Kiver Inlet closed, was at Manasquan. Later, 

 on August 1.3, 1909, Wreck Pond Inlet wa.s opened, and on August 12 that of 

 Shark Kiver. 



* In all cases the character of the water wa.s determined by a hydrometer tliat, 

 read 0-.50 degrees Beaumd. When the scale read degrees the water was 

 considered undoubtedly fresh. 




1909.) NATURAL SCIEXSES OF PHILADELPHIA. 377 



2. Fresh Water. 



(A) With Natural Surroundings — Wreck Pond (salt in 1908; 

 fresh in 1909); Conio Lake (sluiceway to sea); Sylvan Lake = 

 Duck Pond (sluiceway to sea). 



(B) With Artificial Surroundings (pleasure lakes) — Spring Lake; 

 Silver Lake. 



(C) With Protected Shores (pleasure lakes) — Fletcher Lake; 

 Wesley Lake (sluiceway to sea); Sunset Lake; Deal Lake 

 (sluiceway to sea, opened fifteen yeare ago); Wliale Pond = 

 Takanassee Lake (sluiceway to the sea). 



The vegetation will be considered in the sequence which follows 

 the physiographic histor\' of the bodies of water mentioned above. 

 Wherever the tidal action is sufficient to keep the basins of the rivei*s 

 in the first category filled with salt water, we have the level areas along 

 their banks and the sand and niuck islands formed by the action of 

 the currents covered with a typic salt mai-sh vegetation. 



Salt Maksh Fokmation. 



The salt mai-sh areas in New Jereey with which we are concerned 

 occur around the shores of Newark Bay, and extend for some 

 distance along the Hackensack and Passaic rivet's. Tiiere is no salt 

 marsh on the banks of the Hudson River, and none at present in 

 New Jersey on New York Bay. Salt marehes extend along Artiiur 

 Kill and inland along the shores of the rivet's that empty into 

 it. Raritan Bay has its mai-shes where there are indentations and 

 where small streams empty iiito it, and for several miles along both 

 banks of the Raritan River there are extensive flats. The shores of 

 the Navesink River, except a few islands near its mouth, are destitute 

 of salt marshes; but the Shrewsbury River has low, swampy shores, 

 covering some space between the highland and the shore. Then comes 

 a stretch of sea coast extending from North L(»ng Branch to Bay 

 Head, along which the mainland is wasjied by the ocean waves; the 

 beach is abrupt, the sand is coai-se and there is no mai-sh, except on 

 the banks of Stockton Lake, Sliark River, Wreck Pond and .Manas(|uan 

 River. South (A Bay Head the salt niai-shes back of the sand islands 

 are very exteasive, as described in previous papei-s. 



Three kinds of salt marshes may be distinguished in New Jersey. 

 The first, and stjiallest in area, is that which is covered at every 

 mean high tide. The second in area is rarely covered at ordinary 

 tides, but so little above mean higii water that even the slightest rise, 

 due to wind stonn or moon changes, results in a jjartial covering xyith 

 water. The third type of marsh is that alK)ve mean high tide and more 




37S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



or less completely covered with vegetation. All three kinds of inaitjh 

 may be covered at the time of the Spring and l*'all tides, and they are 

 intersected by ditches, thorofares, and deeper boat channels, which 

 give a characteristic ajjpearance to the monotonous landscape. 



The following analysis of a machine-cut sod, 10 x 10 x 27 inches, 

 weighing 121 pounds, was made by Dr. Jacob G. Lipman, of the New 

 Jei-sey Agricultural College, from material taken August 13, 1907, on 

 a Karitan mai"sh opposite Sayreville: 



Original Weight, 121 jjounds. 



Dry Weight. 23.39 " 



Moisture 80.67 per cent. 



Dry .Matter 19.33 " 



Upper Portion. Lower Portion. 



Nitrogen 0.65 per cent. 0.63 per cent. 



Organic Matter. . . .34.23 " 21.30 " 



Ash. 65.75 " 78.70 " 



The spongy, fibrous character of the upper portion of the sod, ex- 

 tending from twelve to eighteen inches and composed of roots and 

 other vegetable matter, is gradually modified in its lower portion. 

 The distinct root structure tends to disappear, and with the darker 

 color the entire mass becomes more compact and resembles nuick 

 rather than peat. The proportionate amount of carbon and ash arc 

 both increased, while the proportion of organic matter is diminished.^ 



The development of the salt marsh vegetation was studied in a 

 number of places. When the mud fiats rise above the surface at any 

 stage of tide plants begin to invade them. Such a bar, uncovered 

 in the Shrewsbury River five or six years ago, according to a fisherman 

 who lived in the neighborhood, is now covered by a dense growth of 

 Spartirm stricta nmritima, a grass which has large root-stocks that ex- 

 tend deep into the mud. At the end of each year the tops of this wiry 

 grass die, and new shoots come up the next Spring; mud and other 

 materials are held at the base of the stems until the surface is gradually 

 built up, when the first type of salt marsh passes into the second. 

 Gradually othei- plants come in that have a root system adapted to 

 growth under the conditioas provided by mud covered and uncovered 

 alternately by tidal flow, until the zonal arrangement of plants which 



^ Smith, John B.: The New Jersey Salt Marsh and its Improvement, Bulletin 

 207, New Jersey Agricultural Experiment Station, 1.907. In one marsli the writer 

 found the marsh soil above a gravel bed measured 82 cm. (= 32^ inche.s), and 

 in a subsequent paper he will describe the appearance and constitution of each 

 soil stratum. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 379 



characterizes the long estabUshed niai-shes arises. This stage of 

 development seems to mark the culmination of the salt marsh vege- 

 tation. If the mai-sh rises above the level \\here the typic salt niarsh 

 plants can grow, adifferent kind of drainage of the mai-sh is established 

 and the salt mai-sh plants are rej^laced by othere. The decay of the 

 remains of the salt marsh plants produces holes here and there over the 

 surface of the mai-sh, which, in the parlance of the sea coast farmer, 

 becomes "rotten." 



The composition of the salt marsh vegetation of the northern 

 New Jei-sey coast can be illustrated best by a study of several 

 typic kinds of mai-shes as they occur from Sandy Hook Bay south to 

 Manasquan Inlet. The description and the sketches which accom- 

 pany them will illustrate the similarities, as well as the differences, 

 induced by a difference in the edaphic factore of the several locahties.* 



The salt marshes at Water Witch Park, a resort on the north slopes 

 of the Xavesink Higiilands, along Sandy Hook Bay. along the channel 

 edge of Plum Island, along the east front of the Highlands, a marsh 

 island in the Xavesink River, at Navcsink Beach and at Normandie 

 consist of Sportina stn'cta marilima (sp. gr. 1.017-1.0185) where a 

 nuiddy bottom is found, but it disappeai-s where sand and gravel form 

 the river bottom. Associated with this salt grass in front of the Nave- 

 sink Highlands are found Spartinn polyslachya, together with Atriplex 

 hisUUa and Tissa nuirina. At Xavesink Beach is a low nnid island 

 formed five or six years ago, but now completely covered with Spartina 

 strida man'tifmi. The second iimer strip consists of the low salt grass 

 Sp(irtinu jxitens, together witii patches of Salicornia herbnrca, as at 

 Water Witch Park, Scirpus pungens at Xavesink Highlands, with a 

 few specimens of Solidaqn scmpcrvircns and Salicornia herbacca. On the 

 marsh island in the Xavesink River, Spdrliiid palcns is associated with 

 Distichlis spicata, covering nearly half an acre of the i.sland, between 

 which and the outer fringe of salt gra.><s occur in mixed growth (sp. gr. 

 I.OISO) Limnnium cnrolinidnum, Spurtind pnlcns, IHanUujo mnritima, 



• The edaphir concIitionH wore determined during the stimmer of 1".M)".» liy nieiins 

 of a sptTifir gravity hydrnincter with a scjilc ri;i<liiiK Innii O.OIK") to l.()(i."), ^ocmI 

 to four d»Tinial phircs l)y a sorondary sulxiivisidii of tin- scalr. An attaclu'd 

 therinoni*»t«T all<»wt'd r*'a<liiiKs to Ix' nwuie from — 1.">° to +1.'>° (Vntigradf. 

 liy nieaiKs o\ this hydroiu<'t<'r the chnraeter of tlie suhiniTpiiiK wat«'r, or wat<T from 

 hole.s (hip in the marsh soil, which influfnciMl tiie roots or ha-se.s of each mnnih 

 sjx-cics, was dftrrmiiu'd. The results arc niven in siMvific gravities. Abso- 

 lut«'ly purr w:it<T f(listili<'<|) njids t.OOOO on tho scale, .'iikI sea water takni from 

 the surf at Hfim.'ir at Jl .1° ( '. njids I .()'_'I.">, so th.-if tin- (ipun-s from (In- ditTrn-nt 

 ni;irsh habitats approach closclv tin- hrst ligurc if the wat<'r is fresh or tlic 3«^cond 

 hgure if mop- or h-ss valine Tiir siM-cilic gravities, i\s far a.s possible, are given 

 ill parentlifses, leaving tln> detailed result* for a subsrf|ucnt pafwr. 




380 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aup;. 



Salicornia mucronata, S. lurhacca, Aslcr suhuhUus, 'J'issa niartiiu, 

 Suado linearis and Chcnopodiuni rubrum. At Navesink Beach 

 Salsola kali has invaded this strip of Spartina patens, and at Nor- 

 mandie Atriplex hastata and Siuvda linearis ( = Dondia amcricanu) form 

 almost pure associations, while at this place, between the low dunes 

 and the last mentioned mai-sh strip, are found associations of Lnthi/rns 

 maritimus, mixed with Solidago semper I'ir ens and (Enothera biennis. 



The third inner strip of salt mai-sh at Water Witch Park is com- 

 posed of an association of Seirpus pungens, Gerardia maritima, Pluchea 

 camphorata and Cyperus erythrorhizos, while the fourth stri]) of vege- 

 tation is characterized by tall-gro\\-ing herbs and shrulis, viz., Seirpus 

 pungens, Panicum inrgatum. Polygonum sagittatum, Hibiscus moschen- 

 tos, Eupatorium perfoliatum, Solidago sempervirens and Baccharis 

 halimifolia, some which suggest proximity of fresh water conditions. 



The salt marsh along the upper portion of Wreck Pond shows a 

 modification of the outer fringing strip of Spartina stricta maritima. 

 Along the north shore of the Pond edaphic conditions control the 

 distribution of plants, for the fringing growth of Spartina stricta 

 maritima (sp. gr. 1.014) is not continuous, but is more or less inter- 

 rupted by tongues of Spartina patens, while in two places Seirpus 

 pungens in two isolated associations is the character plant which 

 touches the channel currents. Back of the tall salt grass is found an 

 almost continuous strip of Spartina patens, in some places mixed with 

 Seirpus pungens and Panicum virgatum. From the distribution of the 

 plants and the direction of the shore lines, it would seem that the 

 ocean currents are deflected against the north shore, where the salt 

 marsh conditions are more typically found, while the fresh water of 

 the river flows seaward along the south shore. This, however, is not 

 the determining factor in the replacement of Spartina stricta maritima 

 along the south shore by Spartina patens, for the north shore has a 

 muddy bottom and the south shore a gravelly one. 



Plum Island Salt Marsh (Fig. 1). 



Plum Island is found lying between the southern end of Sandy 

 Hook and the Highlands of Navesink. 



It is irregular in shape and consists of low sandhills surrounded 

 by salt marsh, as indicated in Fig. 1, which also indicates the areas 

 of marsh covered by this survey (I, II, III). Considering the com- 

 pasition of the salt marsh at the locality marked I on the sketch map 

 of Plum Island, we find the outer strip (sp. gr. 1.016) (Fig. 2) composed 

 of a pure growth of Spartina stricta maritima (X), which is succeeded by 




1909.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



381 



a pure growth (sp. gr. 1.0155) of Boccharis halimijolia {p), which 

 wedges in between the outer strip and the third strip of Spartina patens 

 (V), which in most places usually succeeds the outer one of the taller 

 salt grass. Along the inner edge of the clumps of Baccharis halimi- 



Vig. 1. — Plutii Islnii'l in Saii<iy Hook Hay. l>nttr(l anas rt|)n'.scnt sandy; 

 T, thickft.s jincl tn-fx; ^, salt iiiarsli ; inmnrals indiratf ari'.'is trcatod of 

 in this pafMT. 



jolui (ff) occur pure associations of Suicfla linearis (8) and Sdli- 

 cornia hcrbacea (H ), a.s indicated in the .sketch. 



Sand Dune Formation. — lyow sandy .stretches l)ack of the niai-sh are 

 covered with typic dune plants, including the marram grass, Ammo- 




382 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Aug., 



phiia arcnario (A), Cakilc cdcntuUi ( = C. amcricano), Mi/rica caro- 

 linensis, and an extensive ehimp of Pninus maritima (P), with an 

 occasional cedar. Junipcrxis virgiyiiana (JV'). In places Myrica 

 carolitiensis and Hudson in tomentosa cover extensive tracts in pure 

 association, together with Lechea maritima. 



Thicket Formation ( T T ). — The thickets on the more elevated 

 sandy parts of this island coiLsist of Juniperus virginiana (JV), 

 Prunus mnritima (P), Myrica carolinensis, Baccharis halimijolia. 



Fig. 2. — Portion of Plum Island Salt Marsli marked I in Fig;. 1. X, Spartina 

 slrictn maritima; 6, Baccharis halimifolia; E-i , Salicornia herbacea; 8, 

 Suceda linearis; V, Sjxirtimi juncea; dotted area = sand; A, Ammophila 

 arenaria; t . thicket and forest growth. 



together with the poison ivy, Rhus radicans, while the prickly pear 

 cactas, Opuntia vulgaris, is abundant in the sandy stretches between 

 the trees. 



Plum Island is characterized by a number of salt lagoons. The 

 vegetation surrounding these lagoons was studied at two places (II 




1909.] 



NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



383 



and III), afi indicated in the sketch. The open water (sp. gr. 1.016) 

 of the first lagoon (II) is completely surrounded by a circumarea 

 (sp. gr. 1.016) of Spartina stricta maritima (X), in the midst of which 

 arise-s an association of Spartina polystachya ($). This circumarea 

 is in turn surrounded by a continuous one (sp. gr. 1.018) of Baccharis 

 halimijolia {9), in front of which in two small associations (sp. gr. 

 1.020) occur Spartina patens (\'), together with Salicnrnia herbacca 



I'iK. .'}. - Siirvoy nl Salt Mar-li on I'luiii I-laml, Samly lln.,k May, iiiarkrd II 

 on thf Skr-tfli Map «tt thi* L-^lanfl. X, Sfxtrlina atrirla tnaritima; $, Sixtrtitm 

 polyHtnch]i<i; •), linrrhnrin hali mi folia; (l<)tt4>d an'a = nand; \, SiHirlina 

 ■patewi; H, Snlicornin herlmcea; P, Pruniia maritimn; A, Atnmop/iilii (irt- 

 naria; T , tliirkft of trf'«'s. 



(H ). In one corner of the marsh (sp. gr. l.OlSo), just back of the 

 Baccharis fialimifolia (W), js found an extensive association of Spartina 

 patens (V), which touches the sandy slopes covered with Ammojihila 

 arenaria (A) and Salitlatfo semprrvirms. This dune strip merges into 

 the thicket formation previoiLsly described, where Prunus marittma 

 (P) occupies the outer edge of tree growth (^cr Fig. 3). 




384 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Aug., 



The si'Cdiul lagoon stiuliod is a luuch smaller one, and is located on 

 the map (Fig. 1) at the place marked III. As with the other lagoon, it 

 16 completely surrounded by a circumarea of Spartina stricta maritima 

 (X). and it is fringed on one side by a broad strip of Spartina patens 

 (\'). Touching the tall salt grass on the other side (sp. gr. 1.003) 

 are foimd Salicornia herbacea (H ) and Limonium carolinmnum (A), 

 Atriplex hastata and Sucrda linearis, while here and there occur clumps 



P'ig 4. — Survey ol Salt Marsh on Plum Island, Sandy Hook Bay, marked HI in 

 Fig. 1. X, Sportirut stricta maritima; V, Spartina patens; H , Salicomia 

 herbacea; A, Limonium carolinianum; 6, Baccharis halimifolia; #, Soli- 

 dago sempervirens; A, Ammophila arenaria; T , tree thicket. 



of Baccharis halimifolia (0), at least four such having been seen in 

 the immediate neighborhood of this lagoon. This lagoon basin is sur- 

 rounded by low sandy slopes, barren on one side, but covered with 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 385 



Ammophila arenaria (A) and Solidago semperviren^ on the other, 

 while a thicket where Rhus radicans is prominent occurs on the higher 

 sand slopes (Fig. 4). The water of this lagoon, although it is near the 

 center of the island, remains salt, because at high tides it is replenished 

 by the entrance of sea water, which enters through a valley-like depres- 

 sion running diagonally across the island. 



Salt Marshes along Shark River. 



Shark River (Fig. 5) rises inland about seven miles' from the coast. 

 The inner line of its watei^shed is marked approximatel}' by the New 

 Jersey Southern Railroad, running between Farmingdale and Pine 

 Brook near Eatontown. It runs seaward in two main branches, fork- 

 ing from each other close to Shark River Bay. The southern l)ranch 

 rises in elevated countiy (100-164 feet contour) near Shark River 

 Station on the New Jersey Southern Railroad. The northern branch 

 rises near Centerville, and flows approximately southeast to join the 

 other branch before they enter Shark River Bay, which is fresh at 

 its head, but gradually becomes more salt near its narrow outlet to 

 the sea, more or l&ss surrounded by salt marshes or salt marsh islands 

 (Fig. 5). The bay is about two miles long from east to west. The 

 oiitlet is marked by the line of the New York & Long Branch Rail- 

 road, which crosses by a trestle bridge. Below the trestle the river 

 channel is scoured by the rapidly moving inflowing and outflowing 

 tides, and its banks are lined with salt marshes now to be described. 

 The close proximity of these marshes to Bolmar enabled me to visit 

 them frequently on foot and in a l)oat, and to construct a map which 

 represents the distribution of the salt mai-sh plants (Fig. 5). 



The salt marsh vegetation of the south shore of the river. Ijctwcen 

 the ocean and the trolley l)ridge, will be described in detail fiivt. Tlie 

 river channel (sp. gr. 1.0212) is fringed by Spartinu slncta marilima 

 (X) where the muddy shore is submerged at high tide (sp. gr. 1.0140). 

 This grass also fringes the marsh island, wjiich was uriginally formed 

 by tidal action. Near the ocean front Sparlina pdlcna (\) forms a 

 strip which is barely touched by salt water at high tide, while in difTer- 

 ent association and on the same level is found Srirpus pungrns (Z) 

 associated witlj Limnninw rnmlinianum (A)- I'hcsc plants are l)acke(l 

 by low dunes covered with Triodia ruprm, Ammophila arciKirid^ 

 Slrnphostghs helvola, I^ithi/rus maritimus. Euphorbia pobjqoni folia, 

 Cakilr tdrnluta, ('ft.ssia nirtitans, Amprlnpsis (piimpirjoliti, Solidago 

 ftemprrrircns, Trifolium. rcpcns, T. hghridum and Xanthium cchiiia^um. 

 In the bend of the river between B Street and D Street, Belmar. the 




386 



PROCEEDINGS OF THK ACADEMY OF 



[AUR., 



salt marsh forms a X'-shaped cusp; the sides and apex of this project- 

 ing marsh are fringed with Spartina stricta maritima (X). Enclosed 

 by this grass, as shdwn in Fig. 5, are found pure associations as follows : 

 I, Spnrdnd patens (\). S(tliri)rni(t licHxirra (f-i ) and Limonium rnro- 



Fig. 5. — Salt Marshes along Sliark River. X, Spartina stricta maritima; V, 

 Spartina patens; Z, Scirpus pungens; O, Distichlis spicata; G, Baccharis 

 hfilimifolia; J, Juncus Gerardi; ', Phragmites communis; H , Salicornia 

 herbacea; U, Gerardia purpurea; clotted areas = sand with typic dune plants; 

 t , tree thickets. 



linianum in the low ground partially submerged at high tide; 2, 

 Distichlis spicata (0), Salicornia herbacea (H ), and Limonium caro- 

 linianum in similar soil situations as the first associations and extend- 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 387 



ing around the head of a slough at this point of the shore; 3, Juwus 

 Gerardi (J), one patch of which surrounded a low dune covered with 

 Paniciim virgatum. A high dune spit projecting into the marsh wa.s 

 covered by Panicum virgatum, Xanthium echinatum, CEnothera biennis 

 and Ammophila arenaria. 



The straight portion of the main shore, between this V-shaped marsh 

 on the one hand and the mai-sh island on the other, is occupied by a 

 narrow salt mai-sh, the vegetation of wliich consists of a frontal strip of 

 Scirpiis pungens (Z), out of which grow Baccharis halimijolia {o) and 

 Hibiscus moscheutos. This strip is continued by two pure associations 

 of Spartinn patens (V) (sp. gr. 1.0069) and Scirpiis pungens (Z) re- 

 spectively. A second shoreward marsh strip is occupied by fresh 

 water marsh plant'^, such as Impatiens fulva ( = /. biflora), Sambucus 

 canaxlensis and Polygonum sagittatum, while the drier portions of this 

 strip are characterized by Pam'cum virgatum. The second short offset 

 between D and E Streets, Belmar, is noted for a projecting tongue of 

 low marshland completely surrounded by a growth of Spartina striata 

 mxirilima (X) in full flower (August), while surrounded by the taller 

 salt marsh grass is a lower flowerless growth of Spartinn stricta mari- 

 tima (X), with two associations of Distichlis spicata (U) and one of 

 Spartina patens (V). Immediately back of this marsh tongue are 

 found several strips of vegetation. In front is an irregular a.ssociation 

 of Spartina patens (X) in soil merely wetted by the rising tide, but 

 .seldom entirely submerged. laside of this is a narrow association 

 of Scirpus pungens {7j). succeeded in the drier shore soil by Baccharis 

 fialimifolifi {^) and Hibiscus moscheutos (sp. gr. 1.0000), while in places 

 in this strip occur fresh-water swamp plants, such as Cicuta maculata, 

 Peltarulra virginica, Scirpus robustus and Impatiens fulva ( = I. bi- 

 flora). Situated l:)etween the outer strip of Spartina stricta marilima 

 (X) and the inner fresh water marsh strip occur longitudinally disposed 

 three alternating iLssocjations, viz.: two societies of Scirjnis pungens 

 (Z), between which is found an jissnci;iti<iii of Spartirui patens (\') and 

 Scirpus robustus. 



Till* gra<lual sloj)os of the shun- ui>i>V(' the maixhland is covered 

 with Panicum virgatum, Rhus aulictins, Xanthium echiniiimn fimrlmrix 

 halimijoliii (w), over which clamlx?rs Sicyos angidatus. 



Vegetation of Iht .\farsh Island. 



The marsh island in Shark River with a sloiigh at its western end is 

 completely surrounded by Spartina stricta nutritimii (X), excepH in 

 twf) places where the shore is a little more elevated. At one place 




388 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Auf;., 



Baccharis halimijolia {^) aiul Panicum virtjatum in dry sandy soil 

 above tide action forms the border fjrowth, while on the opposite side 

 of the island in wetter soil is found the edge of an extensive association 

 of Juncus Gcrardi (J), which here touches the river channel. An ex- 

 tensive growth of Spnrtina stricla maritima (X) covei^s the western 

 end of the island surrounding the slough marked on the map (Fig. 5). 

 .\s this growth of salt grass is found in soil only covered at high tide 

 in its development here, it is in marked contrast to its growtli in the 

 shore mud, wliich is never practically uncovered by tidal flow. Else- 

 where in the center of the island occur associations of 1, Distichlis 

 spicata (O) with Limonium carolinianum {i\)', 2, J uncus Gerardi (J); 

 3, Spartina patens (V), with and without Iva imhricala, while a small 

 dune is covered with Panicum virgatum and Solidago sempervirens. 



Vegetation of the North (Avon) Shore of Shark River. 



Beginning at the beacii front, where it covers a wide area of shore 

 mud, and extending in a narrow strip to the trolley bridge, where it 

 again widens, Spartina striata maritima occurs as a border growth. 

 Just back of the ocean dunes, this association surrounds several smaller 

 ones of Spartina patens (V) alone, Distichlis spicata (0) alone, Scirpus 

 pungens (Z) alone and Phragmites communis ('), which grows at the 

 inner edge of the marshland proper, as do Salicornia herhacea (H ) and 

 Limonium carolinianum, while in a smaller growth of Spartina striata 

 maritima (X) back of the border strip grow Scirpus robustus and 

 Baccharis halimifolia (ff). Lying between this strip and the sandy 

 shore, where Panicum virgatum is the character plant, is an extensive 

 association of Scirpus pungens (Z). As the shore bluff comes within 

 a few feet of the water's edge for a considerable distance along the 

 north shore of the river, the marshland narrows until only the fringing 

 growth of Spartina stricta maritima occupies the shore line, with a 

 narrow strip just back of it of Spartina patens (V), which as elsewhere 

 grows in the soil rarely exposed to the full tidal action. In a triangular 

 corner formed by the bluff as one side of the triangle, the trolley road 

 and the river as the other two sides, the marsh widens with a lagoon 

 in its center. The shore growth of Spartina stricta maritima (X) is 

 continuous with the growth of the grass which surrounds the water 

 of the lagoon (sp. gr. 1.0180). Forming conspicuous elements of the 

 vegetation of this triangle, and here as elsewhere to be distinguished 

 by the color of the plants, are several associations of marsh species. 

 One of the largest associations in contact with the bluff is composed of 

 Scirpus pungens (Z), surrounding Iva imhricala and Hibiscus m^scheutos 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 389 



(sp. gr. 1.0000), while Pluchea camphorata mixes its growth with the 

 sedge, as does Juficus Gerardi (J), which surrounds a low sand dune 

 covered with Panicum virgatum. In three isolated areas is found an 

 association of Spartina patens (V), while back of Spartina stricta 

 muritima (X) on the roadside of the lagoon occui-s an association of 

 J uncus Gerardi (J), at one end of which Limoniuvi carolinianum enters 

 the association. At the head of the lagoon, at the inner edge of the 

 marsh soil. Cyperus erythrorhizos and Polygonum ramosissimuni, which 

 indicate beginning fresh water conditions, have established themselves. 

 Outside of the influence of the salt water, where the inner edge of the 

 salt mai-sh (sp. gr. 1.0000) owes its wetness to rains and fresh water 

 springs, just in front of the river bluff occur plants of fresii water 

 swamps, such as the shrubs Alnus serrulata, Pyrus arbuiifolia, Clethra 

 alnijolia and the herbs Vernonia novehoracensis, Eupatorium pur- 

 pureum, Polygonum sagitlatutn, Osmunda cinnamomea, Sagittaria 

 variabilis, Cicuta maeulata and Lobelia cardinalis. 



Transition to Fresh Water Ponds. 



Upper Wreck Pond. — We have seen that the appeai'ance of Spartina 

 patents indicates that the soil is only periodically flooded with salt 

 water. Aljove the carriage road, where the forest approaches the 

 water's edge, Spartina stricta maritima gradually thins out, and its 

 |)lafe as a border plant is taken by Scirpus pungens (sp. gr. 1.000), 

 Scirpius lacustris and Spartina polystachya. But the pei-sistence of this 

 grass here, where the fresh water conditions are becoming pronounced, 

 is perhaps explainable by the fact that the periodic entrance of salt 

 water prevents the replacement of this grass entirely by typic fresh 

 water vegetation, which is unable to survive a short exposure to salt 

 water; while Spartina stricta maritima not only withstanils salt water, 

 but actually thrives in it, and also adapts itself to growth in water 

 which varies its salinity within wide limits, becoming almost fresh 

 when the inland rains are especially heavy or when the inlets of the 

 streams arf cldscd by sand bars during severe storms, as during the 

 simimer of 1009. During this stunmer the outlet of Wreck Pond wa.'- 

 cl()se<i to the sea until, a^ indicated by the hydrometer, the water 

 became entirely fresh, and yet Spartina strirta maritima and SjMirtina 

 fxUcns pci>iste(l in their usual habitats, flowering as usual, even when 

 partially sul)merged by the overflow of frcsli water during heavy 

 summer rains." However, before we reach the pl.ice where this change 



•TliLs inattfT, ax iiuliratcd l>y the sp. gr. liydroiiK'tcr. will apfK'^ir in a latrr 

 pap<'r, but it should iw ciiiplijisiz*-!! iuTf that Malt watrr plants staml siihincr- 

 genci- in frosh watrr niiicli hcttcr than tnsh water plants in salt wat»T. 




390 PROCEKDIXGS OF THE ACADE.MV OF [Aug., 



occm-s. the follow! ii<i; niai-sh strij^s iiuav he rcco<:;iiize(i. begin iiiiif!; with 

 the outer one, which consi.sts of S})(irtin<i stricdi )H(iril>ni(t (sp. gr. 1 .003). 

 Tlien comes a strip of Spartina patens and a niiiidlc one of Panicum 

 rinfdtum, filled in between with Spartina patens and S. polystachya. 

 In the shoreward strip at the edge of the woods, where the salt niai-sh 

 vegetation merges ^^^th the fresh water vegetation (sp. gr. 1.000), 

 occur clumps of Cicuta macuhita. Iris versicolor, Hihiscus moscJieutos, 

 Polygonum sagittatum, P. pennsylranicum, P. arijolium, Eryyigium 

 rirginianum, Ptilimnium capillaceum, Hydrocotyle umbcllata, Lobelia 

 earilinalis, Conrolvulus sepium and Impatiens Julra (visited by hum- 

 ming birds). The third strip may be coiLsidered to be the tension one, 

 where there is a gradual blending of the salt water and fresh water 

 vegetation. As one ascends the sti-eam the salt marsh plant« dwindle, 

 until not a trace of them is left and the marsh becomes entirely a fresh 

 water marsh, covered with plants which lower down merely fringed the 

 inner margin of the salt marsh. 



Sylvan Lake is the rece]:)tacle for the fresh water of a small stream 

 which rises in two forks in Mt. Prospect Cemetery, west of Ocean 

 Grove (SO feet contour). These two branches unite in a small pond 

 at Ocean Grove Heights, and the main stream flows seaward a distance 

 of a mile, until it enters Sylvan I^ake (Duck Pond of the survey map), 

 which is about three-cjuarters of a mile long. As Sylvan Lake is shut 

 off from the ocean by a low sand bar, with a timbered sluiceway still 

 connecting it with the sea during high tides, it is sometimes supplied 

 with salt water, which enters the pond by means of the usually dry 

 sluiceway, which has been left as a means of keeping the water level of 

 the lake witliin certain limits. We can divide the vegetation of the 

 lake basin into two main divisions: (1) The vegetation uninfluenced 

 or rarely influenced b}- salt water, and growing in the western part of 

 the pond where the water is kept fresh by the stream which enters at 

 this end, and (2) the vegetation influenced more or less directly by 

 the sea water, when it enters by the sluice during exceptionally high 

 tides, which may rise high enough to enter the pond only three or four 

 times each year, and in the winter time, w^hen the vegetation in the 

 pond, and surrounding it, Ijeing in its winter state, would be very little 

 injured by an overflow of salt water. Consequently the water of most 

 of the pond, especially near the landward end, is fresh, while near the 

 seaward end it is usually fresh, but brackish only after the sea water 

 has entered the pond during some high side, enabUng a few salt marsh 

 species to persist, although generally subjected to fresh water con- 

 ditions (see note 9), 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 391 



One, tlierefore, notices the entire ab.'sence of such typic salt plants 

 as Spartina stricta maritima, Distichlis spicata, Salicornia herbacea, 

 S. mucronata, Limonium carolinianum and Suooda linearis, while the rem- 

 nant of this true salt marsh vegetation left at the margin of the pond, 

 owing to the occasional entrance of salt water, consists of such plants 

 as Spartina patens and Juncus Gerardi. 



Vegetation in Proximity to the Ocean. 



The low ground margining Sylvan Lake at its seaward end is occu- 

 pied by Scirpus pimgens at the water's edge, while back of it occur 

 Spartina patens, Hibiscus moscheiitos and Juncus Gerardi, together 

 with Elodes virginica and Juncus canadensis. The tall reed grass 

 Phragmites communis forms a pure association at this level, as does 

 also Cladium mariscoides mixed with Solidago sempervircns. The 

 cattail, Tijpha angustijolia, is found in small cove-Hke indentations 

 of the shore, while Nymphcea odorata with Panicum crus-galli occur 

 in small sloughs found here and there along the outer shore line. The 

 low sand levels above the marsh are covered with Myrica carolinensis, 

 in association with Panicum virgatum, Baccharis halimijolia, Stro- 

 phostyles helvola, Baptisia tinctoria, Vaccinium atrococcum, Ilex glabra 

 and Prunus maritima, extending back to the edge of the woods l)ehind 

 what was formerly, l)efore grading operations altered the original 

 conditions, the dune complex of my earlier papei-s. The following 

 plants, Vaccinium atrococcum. Ilex glabra and Baptisia tinctoria, which 

 enter the dune formation, may be considered to be elements which 

 have invaded the formation from an inlan<l pine barren source of 

 supply. 



Vegetation Controlled by Fresh Water. 



Marly in my study of llic flora of Sylvan bake my attention was 

 directed to the north shore, because the south shore of the lake had 

 been altered too much by the encroachment of the building line of 

 Avon-by-the-Sea. Only a few patches of the original vegetation was 

 left, and so much altered as not worth a detailed study. Three strips 

 of vegetation can be recognized along the northern shore of the lake, 

 and in the description of them which follows the plants will be men- 

 tioned in the order in which they were collected in walking from the 

 western end to the eastern end. This plan is pui-sued because it was 

 found impossil)le to recognize associations of the species, because they 

 were so mixe«l together, esj^ecially in the second strip. :us )iot to be 

 separable into distinct groups. 




392 PROCEEDINGS OF THK ACADEMY OF [Aufl., 



The lake is almost choked with a <freeM alj^a, Cladophont flavescens, 

 which has invaded the water lily associations and threatens to exter- 

 minate them. Not only that, but the lake for boating purposes has 

 been ruined by the floatinji masses of Cladophora which at times of low 

 water form mats of al^al felt, and unless copper sulphate is used to 

 destroy this plant the lake will be converted jj;radually into a fresh 

 water mai-sh. 



The water's edge is margined generally by I'anicum crus-gnlli and 

 Scirpus pungens, with whicii in close association were found, but in 

 varying al)undance, Panicmn virqatum, Scirpus pungens, Typha 

 angustifolio and Nympha^a odorata, which formed in most places the out- 

 ward edge of this strip, growing in the shallow water in several places 

 and extending its growth out over the surface of the lake. 



The only plant of the second strip which may be said to grow in 

 pure association is Cladium mariscoides, which forms back of Panicum 

 crus-galli of the fii-st strip a growth in some places 100 feet long, ex- 

 tending back to drier soil. Associated -with this sedge grow Polygala 

 cruciala and Sabbatia angularis. The second strip, however, is charac- 

 terized by the presence of Gerardia purpurea, Rhexiu rirginica, 

 Drosera linearis, D. filiformis, Fuirena squarrosa hispida, Panicum 

 virgatum, Polygonum sagittatum, Hibiscus moscheutos and Lobelia spicata . 

 In a few wet places sphagnum occurs, and here grow Vaccinium macrn- 

 carpon and Drosera filiformis. 



Fresh Water Pond Formatioxs. 



When the sand bar formed across the end of an inlet has become 

 permanent, the lake formed back of it gradually becomes converted 

 into a l)asin holding nothing but fresh water (instance Wreck Pond 

 in 1909, with salt mai-sh species), and the vegetation becomes eventually 

 that found in fresh w^ater ponds and along their margin. Three such 

 fresh water lakes were studied carefully on the northern New Jersey 

 coast, viz. : Como Lake, a small uncharted pond back of Como Lake 

 and formerly part; of it, and Silver Lake. Incidentally in this survey 

 Bradley Lake and Wesley Lake at Ocean Grove and Sunset Lake in 

 Asbuiy Park were visited, but it was found that the banks of 

 these lakes were sodded with cultivated grasses and planted with 

 .shrubs for ornamental purposes, so that these lakes, although formed 

 in a .similar manner to the ones studied, are omitted from further con- 

 .sideration. 



Silver Lake. — Silver Lake is situated in the borough of Belmar and 

 is entirely surrounded by summer cottages (Fig. 5). It is less than 




1909. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 393 



half a mile long, and its banks have been sodded, the undergrowth 

 has been removed and the tree vegetation, notabh^ Pimts rigida, has 

 been left, giving a park-like aspect to the surroundings. The authori- 

 ties periodically clear the lake of all vegetation, in order to provide 

 for the water carnivals which are held some time during the summer 

 months. But yet the vegetation grows almost as rapidly as it is 

 removed, and constant vigilance mast be exercised to prevent the 

 filling of the shallow lake basin. The most pei-sistent of these plants 

 is Potamogeton perfoliatus, which forms extensive associations here 

 and there in the quieter portions of the lake. Another pei-sistent 

 plant is Elodea {Philotria) canadensis, which grt)ws so fast as to choke 

 portions of the lake. Upon this aquatic plant grow epiphytically, 

 according to a study of microscopic material collected in the summer 

 of 1908, a blue-green alga, Mastigonema sejunctum, which lives in tufts 

 or soft mosses on the leaves of Elodea, as also a diatom, Gomphonema 

 constrictum. The filaments of Mastigonema are rather rigid, straight 

 and spuriously branched, and their apex is delicately hair-like, while 

 heterocysts are found at the base of each of the branches. The diatom, 

 Gomphonema constrictum, has wedge-shaped frustules in the girdle- 

 view, and in the specimens studied they were attached by their inferior 

 smaller extremities to a system of hyaline threads that form bound 

 together a stalk, which attaches them to the Elodea leaf. Tiie fresh 

 water plankton of this lake was found to consist in September, 19()S, 

 of Spirogi/ra crassa (which lives over the winter). Anabdna Jios-agutr 

 var. circinalis and Scenrdrsmus obliguus. Tiie water silk. Spii-ogi/ra 

 crassa, formed floating masses near the shore (found by me also in April, 

 1909), while Anaboena flos-oqwe var. circinalis about the end of August 

 was in sucji abundance as to suggest "the flowering of the mumc. " 

 Its beaded filaments ff)rmed most beautiful coils orsj)irals. 



Corno Lake. — O)mo Lake will be treated in a few ycai-s like those at 

 Asbuiy I'ark and Ocean (Jrove, as the l)uilding of summer houses is 

 fast approaching it, so that these observations will preserve to botanic 

 posterity the only statement as to the original flora which surrounded 

 it. Following the south shore first, we can recogni/o four strij)s of 

 plants, viz.: (1) the water strip; (2) the wet ground >trip; (3) the dry 

 grf)und strip; (4) the forest strip. The first two strips are practically 

 the same, because the vegetation of the wet sf)il encroaches upon the 

 water surface. The west shore is soinewliat gravelly and sandy, an<l 

 licrc 1 foiuid. l)eginning at the western end of the poinl and walk- 

 ing eastward, the following characteristic plants: Agntstis hgrtnalis 

 (= A. snihrti). f'oh/tfoinirn sdi/ittnliini , P. acre, ('ijpcrus tTi/tlirtirhirDs- 




■394 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



(abundant). Panicum crus-galli (occasional), Scirpus pungens. Tlien 

 at the cai^tern end. I noted in the water strip Jimcus canadensis, J . 

 debilis, Cypcrus dcntatiis var. clenostachys, C. crythrorhizos, Scirpus 

 pungens. Polygonum sp., Panicum crus-galli. On a small rounded 

 bar in the lake near the ocean grew in the summer of 1908 

 Panicum crus-galli. Polygonum acre, Cyperus erythrorhizos, C. Xultallii. 

 Where a small spring entei-s the lake, I found Nasturtium officinale, 

 Polygonum acre and Spirogyra sp. 



The third strip on the south side of the lake consists of plants which 

 occupy low sandy slopes. Such are Myrica carolinensis, Solidago 

 sempervirens , Panicum virgatum, Strophostyles helvola. Rhus copallina, 

 Baptisia tinctoria, Cyperus dcntatus (proliferated sedge), according to 

 my notes. 



The seaward end of the north shore has been graded. Beginning 

 at the edge of the improvements(?) and walking westward along the 

 shore, the following strips of vegetation were recognized and studied: 

 (1) the mai-sh strip at the edge of the water; (2) the dry sandy strip; 

 (3) the forest strip. The mareh strip, proceeding westward, is charac- 

 terized by Scirpus pungens, Polygonum acre, Cyperu.'i erythrorhizos, 

 Polygonum sagittatum, Gerardia purpurea, Ptilimnium capillaceum, 

 Panicum crus-galli (nearly always at the water's edge). A small 

 stream which enters between the pine woods showed in its expanded 

 portion the white water lily, Nymphcea odorata, and at the edge Panicum 

 crus-galli, Polygonum sagittatum and P. acre. Passing a sharp bend 

 of the shore the marsh vegetation increases in deasity with the asso- 

 ciation of Scirpus pungens, Gerardia purpurea. Polygonum acre, P. 

 sagittatum. Ptilimnium capillaceum, Hypericum canadensis, Bidens 

 frorulosa, Hibiscus moscheutos, Scirpus cyperinus, Panicum crus-galli. 

 The bur reed, Sparganium euycarpum, forms a small association at 

 the western end of the lake, while in front of the trolley embankment, 

 in water six inches deep, was found an a.ssociation of Panicum crus- 

 galli, Cyperus erythrorhizos and Glyceria obtusa. Here the mai-sh ex- 

 pands into a triangular area, where I collected Polygonum sagittatum, 

 P. acre, Cladium mariscoides, Scirpus pungens (abundant), Eryngium 

 virginianum, Solidago tenuifolia, Panicum virgatum, Gerardia purpurea, 

 Ptilimnium capillaceum. Iris versicolor, while in another p(jrtion of 

 the marsh, alternating with the drj-- ground, grew Alnu^ serrulata, 

 Aspidium thelypteris, Cladium mariscoides, Aster subulatus and 

 Hibiscus moscheutos. 



The second strip, or that of the treeless dry ground, is characterized 

 by its exteasive clumps of Panicum virgatum, with which grows Poly- 

 gala crudata. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 395 



Separated from Como Lake by a carriage road, and situated in the 

 angle which this road forms with the main or trolley road, is a small 

 triangular pond of fresh water, completely covered with a small- 

 flowered variety of the white water lily, Nymphcea odorata, with the 

 margin of the pond fringed with a circumarea of Panicum crus-galli. 

 Como Lake proper has relatively no growth of water Ulies, except as 

 previously noted in a small embayraent of the shore, where a small 

 stream enters from the pine woods, and yet in the pond, cut off from 

 the main lake by the construction of the carriage road, it is the domi- 

 nant and exclusive plant. 



Fresh Water Swamp Formation'. 



Como Swamp. — ^West of the trolley road is a swamp (Fig. 6) which 

 occupies the area covered formerly b}" a western extension of Lake 

 Como. but cut off from it by the construction of the wagon road. As 

 this swamp is fed by a small stream about three-eighths of a mile long, 

 there is a partially open channel running through the middle of it, and 

 a small fresh water lagoon has been formed at one side by a choking of 

 the former lake basin with vegetation. This extremely wet swamp 

 illustrates the last stage in the conversion of a salt water pond with its 

 salt marsh vegetation, fii-st into a brackish pond with the suppression 

 of most salt water plants (Sylvan Lake stage) and then into a fresh 

 water lake with its characteristic vegetation (Como Lake stage), and 

 finally the invasion of tiie shallow lake with vegetation j^eculiar to 

 fresh water swamps (Como Swamp stage. Fig. 6). 



The channel (ditch) is blocked in its lower portion by sedges and 

 grasses, in the midst of which we hud an association of Potmnogdon sp. 

 (♦), Polygonum acre {') and Scirpus pungent { + ) surroimding a 

 smaller association of Sparganium curycarpum ( = Fig. 6). On the 

 north side of the ditch we find an association of Leersio oryzoides (i), 

 Panicum crus-gnlli ( i ) and a few scattered dumps of Typhi nngusti- 

 folia (? ). A triangular-shaped a.ssf)ciation comprises Nympha:a 

 (Castalia) odorata O), Scirpus pungens ( + ), P<Niknm rnis-galli (I), 

 with a few scattered specimens of Scirpus lacuslris (©), and the arrange- 

 ment of the plants suggests that the water lilies represent the original 

 facies which has Ix'cn invaded by other specis. The cranberry, 

 Vaccinium macrocarpon (M), forms a pure association at the edge of 

 the marsh, while nearl)y Juncus canadensis ( '^), Polygonum acre ( • ), 

 P. sngillatum (t ), Xympfuca odorata (Q) are in association (see Fig. 

 6). Along the north edge of Como Swamp two other associations are 

 found, one consisting of the admixture f)f Scirpus pungms (+). Poly- 




396 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[A»ig., 



qonum acre ( * ). P. safjittdtum ( T ). Xi/ris caroUniana (* ), Erymjium 

 vinjinianum (E). Sabhalia awfularis (A), wliile the other ai^^sociation 

 comprises Scirpus pungens ( + ), Rhynchospora glomerata (f), Poly- 

 gonum acre ( * ), Ptilimnium capillaccum (■?), Juncus canadensis (d ). 

 The swamp on the south side of the ditch is more extensive, surround- 

 ing: a central lagoon with water lilies (O). Here also are found pure 

 associations of Ti/pha angustifolia (9), Rhynchospora glomerata (j),. 



Fig. 6. — .Survey of Coiiio Frt-.sh Water .Swamp. t , thicket; ©, Xyniphwa 

 odorata; $, Typha angustifolia; f, Pulamugelon sp.; |, Panicum crus- 

 galli; =, Sparganium eurijcarpum; ±, Leersia oryzoides; T , Polygonum 

 sagittatum; -\-, Scirpus pungent; 0, Scirpus lacustris; E, Eryngium vir- 

 ginianum; *, Xyris cnroliniana; S, Solidago tcmiifolin ; M, \'accinium 

 marrocarpon; ^ , Juncus canadensis; f, Rhynchoxpora glomerata; A, 

 Sabbat ia angularis; ' , Polygonum acre; <p, Ptilimnium capillaceum. 



Scirpus lacustris (©), Ptilimnium capillaceum {'P) and several mixed 

 associations of species, as illustrated in Fig. 6. The largest a'^so- 

 ciation is west of the lagoon ; here occur Polygonum acre ( * ) associated 

 with Solidago tenuijolia (S) and Nymphcca odorata (O). Another 

 a.ssociation is composed predominantly of Juncus canadensis (c?),. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. .397 



another of Scirpus pungens ( + ). while Panicum crus-galli (I) and 

 Leersia oryzoides (±) fill the intei"spaces between some of the afore- 

 mentioned group.s of species. Hibiscus moscheutos ocelli's sparingly 

 along the edge of the swamp. Bidens chrysanthemoides appears 

 abundantly in the Fall of the year. 



Relation of Salt Marsh to Salt Water. 



Sodium chloride in solution is known to have strong pla.'^molytic 

 properties, removing water from living cells, when these are subjected 

 to its action, and hence causing the protoplasm to contract away 

 from the cell walls. Ordinary plants are soon killed when exjio.^ed 

 to the action of salt or salt water, and yet we have a group of plants, 

 the so-called halophytes, which poss&ss great powers of resisting the 

 action of sodium chloride in solutions as strong as sea water. The 

 sea beach plants are excluded from consideration, because Kearney'" 

 has shown that the salt content of the shore sand is a negligible quan- 

 tity, and that some cultivated soils contain a larger percentage of 

 common salt than the beach sand, so that of the strand plants the salt 

 marsh species are the only ones which belong to the halophytic class 

 of plants. Schimper" has called attention to the fact that any con- 

 .''iderable amount of salt in the cell sap is detrimental to the plant, and 

 that this fact explains the probable cause of the characteristic halo- 

 phytic modifications, which have to do with reducing the transpiration 

 current, which accounts for the abundant absorption of watci- with 

 various salts of the soil in solution. Warming, however, replied that 

 the redtiction of transpiration would cause the incrca.se of the salts 

 in the cell sap, and he suggested a theor}', which is now the current 

 one, viz.. that the protective contrivances, such as hail's, sunken 

 stomata, succulency, etc., against strong transpiration are necessary 

 in halophytic plants, because absorption of water from a sail solution 

 is slow and difficult. 



Fn the absence of experimental data wliicli will eMal)k' us to arrange 

 the salt marsh plants of \ew .Jo!*sey into a series witli reference to their 

 greater or less power of resistance to salt water," the following general 



'"Krnmoy.T. H.: Arc Plants of Srn Hearlios and Dunes True Halophyt^'.s? 

 The linlnni'nil Cmrltr, X.X.XVII: 12 1 -4.1C>. .lunr, V.M)\. 



" S<hinip<T. \. V. W .: I'chrr Scliutzriiittd dcs l-uiilM-.t K<'K»'H Transpiration, 

 hr.Hondcrs in lirr Flora .lavji's. Sitzh. Acad. H<Tlin. ls«K): lOI.'j; VYw inflo-nmla\ isclic 

 .Strandflora. Motan. Mitthoil. aus dm Tropcn, 1' : l-'JOI. 



'*Tliis was written in 1(H),S. DiirinK the suninn-r of I'.MtU tin' \vrit<'r \\y means 

 of a hydronn'ter (sj-o |»rc'viou.s note) made a detailed study of the various salt 

 marsh jiiant li:d)itjits. 




398 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



observations may he niatle. Evidently, as it is exposed alonf!; the 

 channels whidi it fringes to the full effect of salt water (s]i. gr. 1.()1<S5). 

 the salt grass Sport ina stricta mariiima is the best adapted of all the 

 species studied to the halophytic conditions under which such plants 

 grow. Second in oriler of resistance to the detrimental influence 

 of saline solutions should be mentioned Spartina patens, Salicornia 

 hcrbacea, S. mucronata, Limonium carolinianum (sp. gr. 1.018),'^ 

 Baccharis halimijoUa, Distichlis spicata and Juncus Gerardi. While to 

 a third group of still less resistant halophytic plants, I would include 

 Typha angustijoUa, Scirpus robustiis, Gerardia purpurea, Solidaqo 

 sempervircns and Atriplex hastata. Such plants as Hibiscus mosrheu- 

 tos, Cicuta maculata, Peltamlra virginica, Panicum crus-galli and Sparga- 

 nium eurycarpum, mentioned in the foregoing account, are plants 

 indicative of fresh water marsh conditions, and are not to be included 

 among the true halophytes. 



Without experimental data, which I will later supply in a detailed 

 manner, with reference to the halophytism of all of the above-men- 

 tioned plants, the observations of Ganong" and Graves*^ have an im- 

 portant bearing upon our study of the distribution of the vegetation 

 of the salt marehes of northern New Jersey. Ganong has found that 

 the root hairs of Salicornia herbacea can endure a 100 per cent, sea 

 water without plasmolysis; those of Suceda maritima 80 per cent.; 

 those of Plantago mariiima 70 per cent.; while those of Atriplex 

 paiulum %vithstood 50 per cent, sea water. Graves found that the root 

 hairs of Ruppia maritima could stand a 105 per cent, sea water with 

 occasionally very slight plasmolysis, while with 110 per cent, sea water 

 it was rather slow, but finally distinct. He also used solutions of 2.5, 

 .3 and 5 per cent! sodium chloride with the following results. In the 

 2.5 per cent, solution, the leaves of Ruppia maritima did not plas- 

 molyze; in the 3 per cent, solution they plasmolyzed in 4-5 minutes; 

 in 5 per cent, solution in about 1 minute. Ordinary ocean water con- 

 tains about 3.5 per cent, of salts, and it would seem, therefore, on 

 d priori grounds, that the water of New Haven harbor does not contain 

 as much salts as the 3 per cent, quantity of sodium chloride in the 

 above experiment. It shows, however, that the adaptation of halo- 

 phytic plants is within a narrow limit of salinity, and if the salinity 



" According to mv hydrometer inve.stigations, to be published later in detail, 

 the sp. gr. of sea water i.s 1.021.5 at 21.1° C. 



'* Ganong, JV. F.: Tlie Vegetation of the Bay of Fundy Salt and Diked Marshes, 

 Botanical Gazette, XXXVI: 161-180, 280-302, 349-367, 429-455. 



^■' firaves. .Arthur H. The Morphology of Ruppia maritima, Transaclionn of 

 the Connecticut Academy of Artn and Sciences, XIV: 59-170, December, 1908. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 399 



of the water varies within wider limits such plants are checked in their 

 growth or completely exterminated. This was emphasized in our 

 discussion of the salt mai-sh vegetation found in Upper Wreck Pond, 

 and it accounts for the limitation of fresh water species when tlie water 

 in which they grow reaches a certain degree of salinity. 



The study of the salt mai"shes, salt ponds and fresh water lakes of 

 northern coastal New Jei-sey has developed many features of phyto- 

 geographic importance. The origin of the lakes and ponds, it has been 

 proved, is due to the advance of sand dunes across the outlet of various 

 streams that have their rise some distance inland. Most of the larger 

 streams, that have kept open their outlets to the sea, are lined for 

 some distance from the ocean by salt mai-sh vegetation, which shows a 

 number of characteristic plants in pure association. As the sand l)ar 

 encroached upon the outlets of the streams the water became somewhat 

 brackish, and the conditions favorable to the salt mai-sh species became 

 more precarious, one species at a time disappearing with the decrease 

 of water saltiness. Finally, near the heads of several of the bays, and 

 also in several of the smaller ponds, the water becomes more and 

 more fresh, and we find a replacement of salt mai-sh plants by those 

 accustomed to grow in or near fresh water streams. Similarly salt 

 ponds have by a slow process of change been converted into frash 

 water lakes, and the vegetation has changed accordingly with the 

 alterefl physiographic conditions. Instead of the vegetation of the 

 Xew Jei-sey coast remaining of a fixed type, we can trace, by a com- 

 f)arison of the several plant formations in various conditions of develop- 

 ment, the stages through which the vegetation has passed in reaching 

 its present aspect, and the age of these diffei-ent associations of plant.'^ 

 can be dcterminod by comparing the mai-sh aifas given on the present 

 survey maps with those indicalfd <iii llio older survey maps of tiie 

 inlets made at various times in tiie j»ast by engincei-s for harbor 

 improvement.'* The development has been a progressive one, and 

 all in a certain direction from an original salt mai-sh vegetation to a 

 fresh water and dry laiul flora. If at any time in this orderly se(|uence 

 the sea should l>reak tlirough tin; barrier of sand, or remove it by the 

 orfiinary physiographic processes which are constantly active in thr 

 region, then there is a reversal of the orderly progression of ouv typt- 



"Sro for tills purpose tlif illu.strutrrl paper hy Prof. Lewis M. IIuii})t, on 

 "Chftnges jilong the .\e\v Jersey Coast," Annutd lirjiorl SItilr (icoloijist of New 

 Jersei/, HM).'): 27 9"»; 1907: 72-Sl, and for metliorls of usiiig similar survey maps 

 sec (Jtto. I',. ,Ietiriin|<s. "A Motauiral Survey of F'rescpu- Isle, Vn.," Annal.s of the 

 Vnrnegie Muxvum, V : 294-SO') el seq. 




400 PROCEEDINGS OK THE ACADEMY OF LAuff-, 



of plant formation to another and the original salt nmi-sh conditions 

 are restored. This reveival may be sudden, if the sand barrier is 

 destrovetl in a single st(M-m, or it may l)e tjradual, if by a siiifting of 

 the ocean currents the sand is removed slowly away fn^ii tiie outlet 

 of the stream or lake, as has happened within the past two year's at 

 the mouth of Shark River, which was a few years ago almost closed from 

 the sea. and closed completely by a southeast storm on July 28. 1909. 



In the sudden revei-sal by a heavy storm, all of the fre^h water i)lant 

 formations wouUl be destroyed and the shore line would be made barren 

 for a number of years, imtil by the usual methods of plant dispei-sal 

 and invasion the salt marsh plants again take possession of the river 

 banks, or line the shores of the bays and estuaries that may have been 

 formed. If by the second method the revereal has taken place, then 

 by the water becoming gradually brackish and finally salt, the fresh 

 water plants? will slowh' lose their hold as the soil which they have 

 occupied is invaded by the typic salt mai-sh plants. 



Man. however, has worked greater changes in the original vegetation 

 of northern coastal Xew Jersey than all of the agencies previously 

 outlined have produced. He has cut down the forests, spanned the 

 rivers with bridges so as to disturb their natural flow, built railroads 

 and wagon roads, constructed jetties and stone revetments, filled in 

 ponds and ditches, spread kerosene over marshes to kill mosquitoes, 

 and altered the drainage areas until in some places no trace of the 

 original vegetation is left. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 401 



ON THE TRUE STATUS OF THE GENUS CACOPOIDES. 



BY THOMAS IJAUliol'li. 



In August. 1907. a considerable collection of reptiles and amphibians 

 wa.s purchased from Mr. Alan Owston. of Yokohama, Japan. Most of 

 the specimens were from the island of Formosa, from Hainan and from 

 various locaUties in the Riu Kin archipelago. A few specimens, how- 

 ever, were from the Chinese mainland, some from Sian, capital of the 

 province of Shensj, while others were from Antung in Manchuria. 

 Among the specimens from this last locaUty was a pecuUar "digger 

 toad" upon which I founded the genus Cacopoides. Dr. Stejneger, 

 about the time of the description, rather doubted the probability of the 

 specimen having come from Manchuria. I am assvu'ed, however, that 

 the locality is correct by Mr. Owston, and from the specimens which 

 were received with the toad there seems every reason to believe that 

 it is authentic. Two typical Northern species of frogs, to wit, Rana 

 nigromaculata and Rana amurensis, as well iis a sj^ecimen of Amt/da 

 schlegelii, came in the same jar with Cacopoides. In October, H)OS. 

 the writer happened to be in London for a few days, en route to Brazil. 

 The opportmiity was taken to discuss the new genus with Dr. lioulen- 

 ger at the British Museum. He had not at that time received a copy 

 of the paper in which Cacopoides was described, l-'rom my verbal 

 description it seemed very probable that the new genus was identical 

 with Boulenger's Kaloula verrucosa. This species resembles the other 

 closely in outward appearance and in coloration, and moreover had 

 been reported recently In' Woltei-storff from the neighborhood <>f 

 Tsingtau in Shantung. 



The finding of an amj)hil)ian of the family I'jigystomatidae as far 

 north as the province of Siumtung immediately makes it evident that 

 there was no particular reason to doubt the accuracy i>f tlio locality of 

 Cacopoides bore(dis, which I must confess I did at {\y>\. 



Now, thanks to the kindness of Dr. Boulenger, I have two sj)0('iiii(Mis 

 of Kaloida verrucosa from authentic topoty|)0 material taken at Vun- 

 nan-fu, as well as a third specimen obtained by purcjiase and collected 

 there also by Mr. John (Iraham, the discoverer of the species. So that 

 if becomes possible to present a comparison of this spocios wlfli the 

 one from .\hinchuria. 

 2('i 




402 JMIOCKKDINGS OK IIIK ACADKMV OK [Sept.. 



riifortunatoly. tlie case was somewhat complicated liy :i short note 

 which 1 mailed from Kiirope and published in the Proceed itujs of the 

 Biological Socielji of WoHhitu/ton (\'ol. XXII. Ajiril 17. 1909. p. S9) 

 Tliis note read as follows: 



"A correction is to be made in the case of i'dcopoides hondli.s Har- 

 bour, described as the type of a new genus and s])ecies in a paper on 

 'Some Xew Reptiles and Amphibians' {Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool., \'ol. 

 50, No. 12, p. 321. April. 190S). It api^eai-s that this nuist now be 

 considered identical with Ccdlula verrucosa lioulenger, thougii consider- 

 ably variant from the type of that species and vastly remo\ed from it 

 in range. Boulenger's specimen came from Yunnan, while that on 

 wliich the supjiosed new species was based was collected at Antimg, 

 Manchuria." 



Drawings have l)een pre|nired to show not only the difference in 

 outward appearance between the two species but the shapes of the 

 terminal phalanges, the sacral diapophyses, the sterna, and the inter- 

 iors of the mouth cavitias. In some cases drawings illustrate the form 

 of the same structures in the allied genus Cacopus. A comparison of 

 these figures will serve to show graphically and more satisfactoiily the 

 differences than would a lengthy verbal description. 



For the sake of record the original description is appended herewith 

 from the Bulletin of the Museum of Comparative Zoology (\'ol. LI, No. 

 12. April. 190S. p. 321): 



Cacopoides gen. nm-. 



An eng}'stomatid reL.tcd to Cacopus. The precoracoids are wanting. 

 the coracoids meet each other on the median line, without an inter- 

 calated cartilage; the large metasternal cartilage, instead of being 

 connected to the coracoids by an isthmus, much more narrow than the 

 metastemum itself, is closely adpressed to the coracoidal symphysis. 

 This may be made more clear by the appended drawings. Choaiuo 

 small, with ^■alve-like flaj^s; dermal ridgas behind the choano' converg- 

 ing posteriorly and each with an enlarged pajiilla near the median line; 

 another long ridge in front of the cesophagus which is sharply curved 

 anteriorly near the median line. Tympanum hidden. Fingers free, 

 toes webbed at base, tips not dilated. Sacral diapopiiyses rather 

 strongly dilated. 



Cacopoides borealis .sp. nov. 



Habit very stout. Head small; snout rounded ; no canthus rostralis; 

 snout about as long as orbital diameter; interorbital s|)uce more than 

 twice the diameter of the upper ej'elid. Fingei-s moderate, first shorter 




190U.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'HILADELl'HIA. 403 



than second ; toes moderate, webbed at base ; no siibarticular tubercles ; 

 two metatai-sal tubercles, the inner strong and shovel-like, the outer 

 weak. Hind limb short. Skin smooth, the doi-sal surface witli scat- 

 tered minute pits. Color dark brown-olive above; beneath dusky, 

 marbled witli brown. A suljgular vocal sac is present. 



A re-examination of tlie type has not rendered it necessary to make 

 an}' very radical change in the diagnosis as it was originally published. 

 A careful examination shows, however, that there is a very small bit 

 of intercalated cartilage at the symphysis of the coracoids. 



There remains, however, a considerable nimiber of differences from 

 Kaloida. which seem well worth pointing out. In the fii^st ])lace. the 

 presence of valves in the choana' serves to distinguish the interior of 

 the mouth at once from that in Kaloula and suggests a possible rela- 

 tionship with Cocopus. In this genus, however, though valves are 

 present in the internal nares, nevertheless the great size of tiie openings 

 and the characteristic reduction of the palatal projections to two 

 small bony points serve to distinguish this Indian genus at once from 

 ours. The diagrams of the three sterna show that in shape the steriunn 

 of Cacopoides is more or less intermediate in form between those of the 

 other two genera. As regards the shape of the terminal phalanges it 

 will be seen that here again the form is intermediate between those of 

 A', verrucosa and Cacopus glohidosus. For the sake of comparison, 

 drawings have been made to show tiie i)halanges in K'doidti pulchni 

 and A', baleala. These call attention to the extreme variation which may 

 take place in the shape of these bones within a single genus. In the 

 fii"st specimen which lioulenger received, and in many of the subse(|UPnt 

 specimens, the vcrrucose condition of the skin of the d()r>um letl to 

 his giving the name he did to the Yunnan species. In the type of 

 Cacopoides, liowcver, tiic skin presents a finely pitted appearance, in 

 sharp distinction to the common condition in the species previously 

 mentioned. The reduction of si/e of the hind limb. Ihc relatively 

 large size of the mouth opening, the difference in coloring which is 

 readily seen from a glance at the drawings, as well a.'^ the shape and 

 size of the sacrum and urostyle, serve at once to show the complete 

 (listinctif)n of the new genus. The type of Citeopoides horealis in actual 

 size is somewhat larger than the largest of the thre(> specimens of 

 Kaloula verrucosa. Vet the urostyle is shorter .-ukI the -acnuu nar- 

 rower and rather more dilated than in the other species. 



The discovery of this load in .Manchuria is as remarkal)le us unex- 

 pected when we think of the distribution of the iMjgystomatidii' in 

 pastern Asia. The probai)ility tiiaf. owing to the hal>its of these 




404 rKUCEEDlNGS OF TIIK ACADEMY OF [^fpt., 



creuturos thoy iray oxis^t in :i locality (diiipaijitivoly well (^xpUicd 

 zoologically without their presence hein<!; suspected until they are 

 found by the merest accident, rendei-s it cjuite impossible to draw any 

 conclusions reo;arding the exact relationships and dispei-sal of these 

 forms. 



For the sake of coni|)ans(!n. descriptions of the <i,encra Cacopus and 

 Kalmda are added hereto, as well as Boulenger's original description of 

 Kalouhi verrucosa : — 



Cacopus Othr. 



Pupil erect. Tongue oval, entire and free behind. Choante very 

 large, with a dermal moval)le flap, which can close the nostril; two 

 small bony j:)rominences close together, between and on a level with the 

 hinder edge of the choana^; a small papilla on the hind margin of each 

 choana; a narrow denticulated dermal ridge across the sphenoidal 

 region ; another, very broad, in the front of the crsophagus. Tympanum 

 hidden or very indistinct. Fingers free; toes webljed at the base, the 

 tips not dilated. Outer metatarsals united. Precoracoids none; 

 sternum a large cartilaginous plate. Diapophyses of sacral vertebra 

 rather strongly dilated. Terminal j)halanges simple. 



India. (Boulenger, Cat. Batr. Sal., 1S82, p. 174.) 

 Ealonla Gray. 



Pupil erect. Tongue oblong, entire and free behind. XOmerine 

 teeth none. Palatine bone foi-ming an acute, sometimes toothed ridge 

 across the palate. Two cutaneous, more or less distinctly denticulated 

 ridges across the palate, in front of the oesophagus. Tympamun hid- 

 den. Fingers free, toes more or less webbed (exceptionally free), the 

 tips more or less' dilated. Outer metatai-sals united. No precoracoids; 

 no omostermim; sternum cartilaginous. Diapo])hyses of sacral ver- 

 tebra moderately dilated. Terminal phalanges triangular or T-shaped. 



East Indies. (Boulenger, /. c, p. 1G7.) 



Kaloala verrucosa Blizr. 



Snout rounded, not prominent, as long as the eye; interorbital 

 space as broad as the upper eyelid. Fingers slender, with slightly 

 swollen tips, first a Uttle shorter than second; toes moderate, nearly 

 half-webbed, the tips blunt, not swollen, fifth considerably shorter than 

 tliird; subarticular tubercles well developed; metatarsal tubercles 

 two, oval, compressed, the inner very large. The tibiotarsal articu- 

 lation reaches the shoulder or between the shoulder and the eye 

 Upper parts with large smooth warts; a fold from the eye to the shoul- 

 der. Dark gra\'ish Vjrown above, uniform or with six longitudinal rows 

 of small darker spots; lower parts uniform dirty white. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 405 



Kaloula, spelt thus, dates from Gray's Zoological Miscellany, 1831 

 p. 38. Callulo, a more recent emendation, has no standing in nomen- 

 clature. 



Explanation of Plates XVII and XVIII. 



Plate XVII.— Fig. 1. — Mouth of Kaloula ven-ucosa. X 2. 

 Fig. 2. — Mouth of Cacopoides borealis. X 2. 

 Fig. 3. — Mouth of Cacopus globulosus. X 2. 

 Fig. 4. — Kaloula veiTucosa (Bigr.). Natural size. 

 Fig. 5. — Type of Cacopoides borealis Barbour. Natural size. 



Plate XVIII. — Fig. 1. — Sternum of Cacopus after Boulenger. 

 Fig. 2. — Sternum of Cacopoides. X 2. 

 Fig. 3. — Sternum of Kaloula verrucosa. 2. 

 Fig. 4. — Sacrum and urostyle of Cacopoides. X 2. 

 Fig. 5. — Sacrum and uro.style of Kaloula verrucosa. X 2. 

 Fig. 6. — Terminal phalanx, Kaloula baleata. 

 Fig. 7. — Terminal phalanx, Kaloula pulchra. 

 Fig. 8. — Terminal phalanx, Kaloula vemtrasa. 

 Fig. 9. — Terminal phalanx, Cacopoides b-ncalis. 

 Fig. 10. — Terminal phalanx, Cacopus (jlobulosus. 




-1()() PROCKKDINCiS OK TllK AC'ADKMY OK [Sept., 



A NEW SPECIES OF FISH OF THE GENUS ATOPICHTHYS, WITH NOTES ON 

 NEW JERSEY FISHES. 



15Y HENRY W. FOWLKK. 



Atopichthys phillipsi sp. nov. 



Head about 14; depth about 14; snout about 3^ in head, measured 

 from tip of upper jaAv; eye 3J; maxillary 2; interorbital 5; head 

 depth at occiput 2; muscular segments about 88 + 35? 



Body oblong, greatly compressed, and tapering from about last 

 third its length toward eacli end, greatest depth including area of 

 trunk posterior to middle of entire body length. Tail tapering down 

 rather suddenly. 



Head widest part of body, compressed, upper profile generally con- 

 cave and lower rather convex. Snout compressed, narrowly triangular, 

 both in profile and as viewed from above. Eye large, rounded. Mouth 

 large, oljlique. Mandible shallow, attenuated, and protruding well be- 



yond snout tip. Teeth narrow, long, pointed, apparently uniserial and 

 all directed anteriorly in jaws. Tongue not evident. Nostrils small, 

 well separated, similar, anterior near snout end and posterior close 

 before eye. Interorbital slightly convex. 



Gill-opening inferior, below and before pectoral base. 



Body naked, smooth. 



Vertical fins low, continuous around caudal, latter small, short and 

 Uttle developed. Pectoral' small, short, low. Vent far back, near 

 last sixth in entire length. 



Color in alcohol whitish, becoming transparent when removed and 

 a Uttle dr>', though again turning whitish when submerged. Along 

 middle of each side a minute dark dot or chromatophore on most 

 myocommas. Along lower edge of body also a dark chromatophore 

 at most of myocommas. Occasionally minute chromatophores scat- 

 tered inconspicuously along side of body, here and there. A number 

 of rather enlarged blackish chromatoi)liores in branchiostegal region. 

 Iris blackish, veneered with silvery and slightly tinged pinkish. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 407 



Length 3^ inclies (85 mm.). 



Type, Xf). 06.60S. A. N. S. P. Coi-son'.s Inlet, Cape -May County, 

 New Jersey. April 11, 1909. Dr. R. J. Philli])s. 



This intere'^tin<r fish was picked up on the ocean lieach after a storm, 

 with a nimiber of other small fishes, such as Raja crinacea, Syiignathus 

 fuscus. Hippocampus hudsonius, Centropristis striatus, Prionotus 

 e7'olans strigatus. Gohinsoma bosci, Opsainis tau and Lophius piscatorius. 

 Dr. Phillips noted the color of the Atopichthys as ivory-white when 

 first found and measuring 3| inches in length, so that it has shrunk 

 considerably after being placed in alcohol. It is most closely related 

 to Leptocepfialus amphioxus Eigemiiann and Kennedy, but diflfere at 

 once in having the area of its greatest depth extending well behind the 

 middle of the length of the body, and therefore with an extremely 

 elongated ovoid contour. It agrees, however, in the chromatophores 

 and posterior vent, though there are no branchiostegal chromato- 

 pliore-^ indicated for L. amphioxus. Further it difTei-s from tlie latter 

 in fewer trunk myomeres, protruding mandible, widely separated 

 nostrils, and more numerous ventral chromatophores. Possibly it 

 may be the young of some genus like JJroplerygius'^ 



(Named for Dr. Richard J. PhilUps, of Philadelphia, wiio collected 

 the type.) 



Nolca on some New Jersey Fishes. — Dr. R. J. Phillips secured 

 a numljer of interesting fishes at Coi-son's -Inlet during the past sea- 

 son, among them a fine example of Hemitriptrrus americanus on Ajiril 

 25th, on May 10th a fine adult example of Pomolohus mediocris with 

 a small blue Petromyzon marinus attached, and on March 21st six 

 small Fufululus h(ci<v. On May 20th ho secured, besides an intere>^ting 

 young P. mediocris, Anchoria mitrhilli, Lucania parva, Synynathus 

 fuscus, young Poronotus triacanthus and Phycis rcyius in tiie bait- 

 net. A few specimens of Menticirrhus americanus wore taken there 

 during tiie past summer, as well as at Someis' Point, an<l early in No- 

 vember of 1908 several of Squalus a^anthias and a large Raja laris 

 were taken at Corson's. Mr. W. J. Fox secured a fine Zoarces anyuillaris 

 taken .March 14. 1909, and noted tliree /W/r/(7//».s r//Y».s on Aj)ril 4th 

 at Sea Isle City. An Alopias vulpes, \5h feet long, was taken at Cape 

 May Point on June iSth. according to Mr. 11. W. Hand. During the 

 past month the latter also noted Carcharias litlondis, Cynais canis and 

 Sphyrnn zy<j(rna aljout Cape May, and found Gamhusia yracilis appar- 

 (Mitly ntiiro abiuidant in Teal's Branch than when fiivt discovei^ed in 

 1907. On Jiil\ 1 till I ic(fM\ r'd .1 Rdja eglantcria and four lhix}iiilis 




40S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



ccnirnura fmni off (Jreeii Creek in Delaware Bay. Mr. Fox is infortned 

 that two larfie Tarpon othnUicus were reported from tlie pounds at Sea 

 Isle City about 19()1 or 1902. Mr. I. N. DeHaven reported Tarpon all an- 

 ticus taken at Chadwick in 1007, and Trichin'rus Icptwus later. Perhaps 

 the most interesting fish captured in New Jei'sey waters tliis season was 

 a fine large example of Rhinopkra hona^ns taken on September 11th in 

 the bay at Ocean City, and secured for the Academy b}' Mr. David 

 McCadden. No definite New Jersey record has ever been given since 

 LeSueur described it from Egg Harbor in lS17intheJouRN.\Lof the 

 Academy. Dr. Phillips has kindly furnished me with a drawing and 

 detailed description of a yoimg Garrupa nigrita taken at Coi-son's Inlet 

 on September 2d, which is the first record for this fish in New Jersey 

 waters. 




1909.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 409 



AN OETHOPTEROLOGICAL RECONNOISSANCE OF THE SOUTHWESTERN 

 UNITED STATES. PART III: CALIFORNIA AND NEVADA. 



BY JAMES A. G. REHN AND MORGAN HEBARD. 



The first and second portions of the results of this examination 

 of the southwestern United States, treating of Arizona, New Mexico and 

 western Texas material, have already been published in these Pro- 

 ceedings.* The present is the final one of the series, bringing to a 

 close the study of the collections made in 1907. 



The material treated in this paper was almost wholly collected by 

 the junior author, although several small but interesting lots taken 

 by Dr. Joseph Grinnell and Mr. Fordyce Grinnell, Jr., have added 

 materially to the interest of the work. The collections made by these 

 gentlemen were verj' kindly given by them to the Academy. Mr. 

 Otho Pohng, of Quincy, Illinois, whose assistance was acknowledged 

 in the previous papere, aided in securing a good portion of the material 

 taken in the Los Angeles region (Alamitos Bay, Miramar, Pasadena, 

 Echo Mountain and Mt. Lowe), while collections made by him in late 

 August near Los Angeles, at Altadena and on Mt. Lowe contain much 

 of interest. 



The number of species examined and treated in this report is one 

 hundred and ten, of which six species and two subspecies prove to 

 be new, while the specimens number one thousand eight hundred 

 and seventy. 



Localities. 



Iruiio, Riverside County, California. Altitude, 2G feet below sea- 

 level; July 29, 1907. Orthoi)tera were found j^lentiful near the 

 town on the sun-baked phiin, upon which grew a high dense growth of 

 plants, and also in small irrigated spots near the railroad station. 

 The intense heat made collecting rather didicult. 



Alamitos Bay, Los Angeles County, California . .luly 31. Near the 

 ocean beach on the loose sand, upon which typical beach vegetation 

 was growing, some few species of (Jrthoptera were found. In a few 

 very small damp spots in this situation several specimens of the genus 

 Conocej)halus were taken. 



*Proc. Acad. \nl. Sri. I'hiln., 1908. pp. 365-402; 1909. pp. 111-175. 

 27 




410 PROCEEDINGS OF THK ACADEMY OP [Oct., 



Miratnor, Los Angeles Coiiuty, California. July 31. In this locality 

 a field of dry trampled grass near the shore proved the most inoduc- 

 tive location. On the whole collecting near the shore was not nearly 

 as good as it was farther inland near the iiills. 



Pasadena, Los Angeles County, California. Altitude, 824 feet; 

 August 1. A good lot of material was secured in the Arroyo Seco, 

 where in the heavy brush and cactus and also beside the stream a 

 number of interesting species were encountered. Nearby in culti- 

 vated ground collecting was also productive. On the nearer slopes 

 of the San Rafael Hills quite a ditTcrcnt and nearly as interesting 

 a series of Orthoptera was taken. Tliese hills were covered with low 

 dry grasses, with frequent dense tangles of low bushes between them. 

 This vegetation and the steepness of the slopes made collecting much 

 more difficult than in the Arroyo Seco. 



Between Altadena and Rubio a very few specimens were taken 

 on August 8, among low bushes. 



Echo Mountain, San Gabriel Range, Los Angeles County, California. 

 Altitude, 2,700-3,500 feet; August 8. On the steep slopes covered 

 with dense but low bushes a few interesting specimens were taken in 

 a short time. 



Ml. Lowe, San Gabriel Range, Los Angeles County, California. Alti- 

 tude, 5,200-5,600 feet; August 8. Between Alpine and the summit 

 the steep mountain side is clothed with hea\'y shrubs and low oaks, 

 while the ravines in places are filled with taU trees. On the mountain 

 side collecting was most productive and interesting, but in the ravines 

 only a few Melanopli were found. 



Between Echo and Alpine, altitude 4,000-4,800 feet, the mountain 

 slopes proved .splendid collecting places, especially where there was an 

 occasional small pocket or basin. In one of these nearly level areas 

 Napaia gracilis, Dracotettix calif amicus and other very interesting 

 species were found. The mountain sides are in the majority of places 

 clothed with manzanita and other low bushes. 



Santa Caialina Island, Los Angeles County, California. August 3-7. 

 On CataUna Island the slopes of the hills about Avalon, which are 

 covered with low bushes and weeds and an occasional thick clump 

 of stunted oaks, proved quite unproductive. On the golf course, 

 farther up in the Avalon Valley, certain common species were abundant, 

 and toward dusk several species of Locustids and crickets w^ere heard 

 in some cultivated bushes about the club house and about the town. 

 Of these specimens of QEcanthus and Scudderia alone were captured. 



A trip to the highest point on the island involved considerable 

 effort with httle result. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 411 



Collecting at Catalina was much like that among the low hills 

 along the coast and not nearly as good as among the San Gabriel 

 foothills. 



Cottonwood, San Bernardino County, California. Altitude, 2,274 

 feet ; September 9. On the desert clothed \\-ith greasewood and other 

 plants of the Mohavan region collecting was very productive, especially 

 at dusk when a numl^er of interesting things were taken. The desert 

 is here more or less rolling and the spot is ideal for collecting in a dry 

 region. Nearby along the border of the Mohave River, in tall weeds 

 and grassy ground which had been inundated but was at the time 

 parched, a number of interesting species were found. On the train at 

 night species of Homceogamia and Stagmomantis were taken, two of 

 which are new. On the whole, this was the most interesting desert 

 situation in wliich collecting was done during this trip. 



Kelso, San Bernardino County, California. Altitude, 2,118 feet; 

 August 12. In this the most extremely arid desert area encountered, 

 covered only with a scattered growth of greasewood and a very few 

 low desert plants, quite a few specimens were taken. North from the 

 station, among the volcanic foothills of the North Range of the 

 Providence Mountains, a veiy few specimens were captured, but these 

 were the most interesting captures made at this point. Pcecilotettix 

 sanguineus was seen but not taken. Kelso is situated seven miles 

 from the huge sliifting sand hills called the Devil's Playground, and near 

 it is a diy soda lake. A \isit to that area would doubtless have 

 proved interesting, but time was not available. 



Cima, San Bernardino County, California. Altitude, 4,192 feet; 

 Augiust 12. Cima is situated on a high plateau covered with tall 

 tree yuccas. The low vegetation was scant and consisted of a very few 

 greasewood bushes and other species of desert shrubs. In some nearby 

 low hills covered with essentially the same vegetation long search 

 failed to disclose any species of special interest. In a growl li of 

 tumble-weed beside the railroad all the specimens of AgeneotcUix 

 australis and Cordillacris apache were taken. 



Lyons, San Bernardino County, California. Altitude, 2,S50 feet; 

 August 11. In an area of loose sand with scattered tufts of dry 

 grass Ileliastus minimus alone was found. The desert here was covered 

 with fragments of volcanic rock, aiuf»ng which grea-^ewood and a very 

 few other desert plants grew and the entire coiuitry had a decidedly 

 baked appearance. In this area a nvmiber of ver>' valuable captures 

 were made, althotigh it was insufferably liot, much more .so than 

 at Yuma. 




412 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Bird Spring Mountains, McCullough Ramje, Lincoln County, 

 Newda. Altitude. 2.900-3,000 feet: August 11. On the slopes up 

 to the footliills of these mountains the character of country and 

 vegetation was nnich the same as about Lyons, Cahfornia, nearby, 

 except that the volcanic fragments were here much more abiuidant. 

 Tytthotijlv tnacidata was found here also, and the single specimen of 

 Drymadusa arizonensis taken on this trip was found just wjiere the 

 slopes reached the plain. 



Las Vegas, Lincoln County, Nevada. Altitude, 2,050 feet; August 

 9. 10. Most of the material from this locality was taken in the only 

 green place for many miles around, along the small stream which springs 

 out of the de.*!ert to the north of Las ^'egas. A good series was also 

 captured on the surrounding desert, which differed from the usual 

 desert of the Southwest in that there was no greasewood and hardly 

 any mesquite to be foiuid. In some spots this desert was excessively 

 parched and ])arren. Las Vegas, offering both desert and damp 

 land collecting, was more productive than the majority of places in this 

 character of country. 



El Torn. Orange County, California. August 20. Collecting was found 

 to be unproductive in the rolling grain fields about the village, which 

 were very dusty and warm at this season. 



Tia Juana, San Diego County, California. August 16. The low 

 hills, covered \\ith scant vegetation, and a swamjiv section near the 

 Mexican boundary line were examined. 



Coronado Beach, San Diego County, California. August 14, 15 and 

 16. Salt marsh, strand and weed field situations were examined at 

 this locality and at South Coronado Beach. 



Raymond, Madera County, California. Altitude, 940 feet; Sep- 

 tember 3. In a hillside stubble field near the village Orthoptera was 

 found in quantities. The Decti^id Clinoplcura minida was particu- 

 larly abundant. The town is not as far out in the valley as Merced, 

 and collecting between tliis place and Miami would without doubt 

 have proved extremeh' productive had more time been available. 



Merced, Merced County, California. Altitude, 173 feet; August 

 30. All of the Orthoptera captured at Merced were taken in a very 

 dry stubble field near the railroad station. 



Summit House, Madera County, California. Altitude, 2,200 feet; 

 September 3. In this vicinity specimens of interest were taken on 

 a hillside covered with a scattering growth of oaks. The undei'growth 

 here consisted of a thick mat of short dry yellow grasses interspersed 

 with verv low tar weed. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 413 



Miami, Mariposa County, California. Altitude, 4,200 feet; Sep- 

 tember 3. A few specimens were taken on a hillside in a conifer 

 forest. 



Ahicahnee, Madera County, California. Altitude, 3,700 feet; 

 September 3. In a large patch of tar weed and other high plants collect- 

 ing was found to Ije extremely productive, and several species were foimd 

 which had not been met %A-ith in the higher parts of the Sierras. Had 

 more time been available there is but httle doubt that a very interest- 

 ing series could have been taken. This was by far the best locality 

 for collecting between Wawona and Raj'mond. 



From the Yosemite \'alley to the Mariposa Sequoia grove the roads 

 are bordered by great open conifer forests, in which Trimerotropis 

 fallaz and Trimerotropis caruUipcs were found almost invariably 

 plentiful. In this region collecting was done at Wawona, altitude 

 4,000 feet. September 1; at Mariposa Grove, altitude 7.000 feet, 

 September 2; at Grouse Creek, altitude G.OOO feet. Sejitcinber 1. and 

 at Eight Mile Camp, altitude 5,000 feet, September 1. All of these 

 localities were much the same for collecting. 



Senlinel, Yosemite Valley, Yosemite National Park. California. 

 Altitude, 4.000 feet; August 31-September 1. In the heavy gra'^s 

 near the hotel Melanopli were found in small inunbei-s. while on the 

 opposite side of the Merced Kiver many more were taken in a similar 

 location. In the pine woods of the valley bottom several species of 

 Trimerotropis were taken, and in one clearing dotted with low bushes, 

 in the direction f)f the Yosemite Falls, a series of Trimerotropis koebelei 

 was taken. At a higher elevation among the conifers growing on the 

 walls of the valley Aijlaothorax sierranus was found, as well as the ever 

 present Trimerotropis fallax and Trimerotropis earulei])r.'<, and on the 

 steep upper ledges of bare rock near the up])er ))art yf the valley wall 

 Circotettix .sha.'itanus was discovered. 



El Portal, Mariposa County, California. Altitude, about 3,200 feet; 

 August 30. This is the temiimis of the railroad in the gorge of the 

 Merced, near the entrance of the Yosemite National I'ark. At this 

 poitit the rather steep sides of the gorge are clothed with a heavy 

 forest of oaks and other deciduous trees mingle<l with some few conifers. 

 Few but interesting specimens were taken in the undergrowtli, ])ar- 

 ticularly Melannplui< ahhUiui aiul Cyrtophyllieus elilnrum. A longer 

 stay would have proveti ver}' productive. 



Mill Valley. Marin County. California. Altitude, 3(K) feet ; August 

 23. A few specimens of the genus Conncephalus were taken among 

 weeds growing in the street ditrhes. Just outside of the town on the 




114 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



grassy slope-^ , wliich jiscnid faithor l)ack to Mt. Tainalpais, several very 

 interesting species of MiUtnoplus were found ainonji numerous nioi'C 

 common Orthoptera. The rcf^ion was diy and dusty and nnicli like 

 the other low dry grass-covered hills of the coast. 



Mt. Tamalfkiis, Marin Counti/, California. Altitude, 1,500-2,500 

 feet; August 23. On the summit but little Orthoptera was to be 

 found among the manzanita and other low shrubbery. A fog con- 

 tinually driving across the mountain top during my stay no doubt 

 prevented a larger number being taken. Near the upper level of 

 the timber a colony of Neduba was found in a grassy ravine with 

 a scattered growth of pines, oaks and other trees. From this i)oint 

 downward, collecting among the grasses and herbs beside the I'ail- 

 road track was rather productive, but the mountain ridges covered with 

 manzanita bushes and low herbs revealed Orthoptera in numbers, 

 among which were some very interesting species. The slopes were 

 usually steep, and collecting seemed both more convenient and more 

 productive on the ridges and occasional small level spots. Just below 

 the central portion of this manzanita-covered zone proved the most 

 productive altitude. 



The material collected by Dr. Joseph Grinnell was all taken during 

 a biological survey of the San Bernardino Mountains,^ the greater 

 proportion of the specimens being taken on the South Fork of the 

 Santa Ana River. The specimens given by Mr. Fordyce Grinnell, Jr., 

 were secured at several localities in the San Jacinto ^Mountains, 

 and their eastern spur the Santa Rosa Mountains, on Mt. Wilson, San 

 Gabriel Mountains and at Pasadena. The material from the San 

 Bernardino, San Jacinto and Santa Rosa ranges was of exceptional 

 interest, as little or nothing was known of them orthopterologically. 

 The latter is also true of the material taken by Hebard in the Bird 

 Spring Mountaias, at Cima, in the North Range of the Providence 

 Mountains and at Las Vegas, Nevada. 



' FORFICULID^. 



Anisolabis annnlipes (U Lucas). 



Three males of this species were taken at Coronado Beach, August 15, 

 from under marigolds in a garden. 



Caudell has recorded this species from California. 



' The Biota of the San Bernardino Mountain.s, by Joseph Grinnell, Univ. of 

 Cal. Puhl., Zool, V, No. 1. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 415 



BLATTID^. 



Ischnoptera consobrina Saussure. 



A .^iugle male of tliis species, collected at Pasadena by Fordyce 

 Grinnell, Jr., has been examined. 



Tlie only previous record of the species from the Pacific State.s is 

 that of its occurrence at Claremont, Los Angeles County, California, 

 by Baker,^ tiie material ha\ing been determined by the senior author. 



Homoeogamia erratica Kelui. 



A single male of this species was taken September 9 at Cottonwood 

 on board a train, to which it had been attracted by the hghts. The 

 specimen is paler than a number of Arizona individuals, having 

 practically no markings except an arcuate reddish line meso-caudad 

 on the pronotum. 



This is the first record of the species from Cahfornia. 



Homoeogamia subdiaphana mohavensis n. sui.sp. 



Four males of an extremely pale form of //. subdiaphana, Scudder, 

 previously known only from several localities in New Mexico, were 

 taken at Cottonwood, September 9, under similar conditions to the in- 

 dividual of //. erratica recorded al)ove. 



These specimens are very pale cream-bufT in base color, the tegminal 

 veins pencilled with burnt umber, those of tiie anal area, which are 

 strongly lined in the typical form, being hardly more defined than 

 those of the proximal portion of the discoidal area. The pronotum is 

 clouded caudad with ochraceous, particularly on the paired lateral 

 and single caudal areas which are dragon's blood red to bay in the 

 typical form. 



Two forms of pronotum are noticed in the seriesj»f //. subdiaphana 

 and //. s. ynohavensis, one with the cephalic margin distinctly obtuse 

 angulate, the other with the same jjortion broadly arcuate. 



Measurrnu nts. 

 Length of body, 10 ') nun. 



Length of pronf>tuiii, .{ " 



Greatest widtji of pronotum, . ..12" 



Length of tegmen, . . 11 " 



MANTID^. 

 Litaneatria minor (•S<"uil(l(r). 



A single fcMuale from Cottonwood, .September 9, taken on grease- 

 wood, was activcl}' climbing and jumpingt^about. In size and pale 



* InverUbrata Pacifica, I, p. 72. 




416 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF ^ [Oct., 



general coloration it is similar to two specimens from Florence, Arizona. 

 The subbasal fuscous spot on the tegniina is moderately distinct, 

 but not large. 



Litaneatria Bkinneri Helm. 



A single male of this species, collected at an elevation of 5,500 feet 

 on the Santa Ana River, San Bernardino Mountains, California, by Dr. 

 Joseph Grinnell, has been examined. It is inseparable from typical 

 material from the Huachuca Mountains, Arizona. 



This is the first record of the species from California. 



Stagmomantis oalifornioa n. sp. 



Types: c" and 9 ; Cottonwood, Mohave Desert, San Bernardino 

 County, Cahfornia. Attracted to Ught. September 9, 1907. 

 [Hebard Collection.] 



Allied to S. fraterna, niontana and venusta Saussure and Zehntner 

 and gracilipes Rehn. From fraterna it differe in the slenderer prono- 

 tum, particularly the shaft, more prominent eyes, differently colored 

 wings in both sexes and longer pronotum and cephalic femora and 

 shorter tegmina in the male; from montana in the much smaller size, 

 proportionately longer and slenderer pronotum and much broader 

 head and differently colored wings ; from venusta in the more truncate 

 and less arcuate occiput, the less pyriform eyes when viewed from the 

 side, the absence of black markings from the internal face of the 

 cephahc femora in the male, in the stigma being distinctly colored 

 as in the female; from gracilipes in the shorter pronotum with the 

 supra-coxal region more dilated and in the shorter limbs, the cephalic 

 femora being much broader and heavier. 



The species is in no way related to S. heterogamia Saussure and 

 Zehntner, and differe from S. Carolina in the different proportions of 

 the head and pronotum, the coriaceous costal field of the tegmina of 

 the male and in the stigma not being distinctively colored in the same 

 sex; from »S'. limbata it differs in the smaller size, proportionately 

 broader head, more prominent eyes, shghter pronotum (particularly 

 in the female) and the shorter and narrower tegmina of the female. 



Form moderately slender; size medium. Head quite broad, the 

 depth contained one and one-half ( 9 ) to one and two-thirds (cJ*) times 

 in the Andth; occipital outUne nearly straight, not arcuate; facial 

 scutellum ^\-ith the greatest depth (median) contained shghtly more 

 than twice in the width, dorsal margin obtuse-angulate, very slightly 

 fissate at the angle in the male, the lateral portions of the angle slightly 

 arcuate-emarginate ventrad of the insertion of the antennfc; ocelli 




1909.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



417 



placed in a triangle, two doi-sad, one ventrad, the dorsal ones well 

 separated, those of the female ([iiite small compared with the large 

 jewel-like ocelli of the male; eyes large, 

 quite prominent, very broad elliptical 

 in shape when seen from the side, not 

 elevated dorsad of the occipital line; 

 antennae setaceous in both sexes, slend- 

 erer and shorter in the female than in 

 the male. Pronotum sjigjitly longer 

 than twice the width of the head, the 

 supra-coxal width contained four (rj) 

 or three and a half ( 9 ) times in the 

 length of the pronotvim; shaft consid- 

 erably compressed mesad, the whole 

 shaft carinate, the expansion and collar 

 pyriform, broadly ( 9 ) or narrowly (d^) 

 so, margins of the male unarmed, rather 

 strongly denticulate cephalad in the 

 female, the teeth becoming weaker 

 caudad until absent from the caudal 

 portion. Tegmina of the male very 

 slightly exceeding the apex of the al)do- 

 men, hyaline with the rather nairow 

 costal field oparjue and sul>coriaceous; 

 tegmina of the female al)out e(|ual to 

 the pronotum in length and reaciiiug 

 about to the middle of the abdomen; 

 costal margin considerably arcuate prox- 

 imad; the costal field slightly more 

 than a fourth the width of the whole 

 legmen; apex roimded; stigma distinct, 

 longitudinal. Wings hardly excecchng 

 the tips of the tegmina. Supra-anal 

 plate of the male transverse, the apical 

 margin regularly but not very greatly 

 arcuate: subgcnital plate of the male 

 moderately jjroduced. the apical ni;irgin very narrowly an<l angularly 

 emarginate; cerci .slightly exceeding the aj.ex of the subgenital plate, 

 tapering, the joints elongate sub-moniliform; supra-anal plate of 

 the female strongly transvei-se. the margin rotundato-angulaVe; sub- 

 genital plate compres.sed, rostrate caudad; cerci about thn'e-fourths 



Fig. 1 . - Stagwomftnlin califomica 

 n.sj). Dorsal view of female 

 typf. (X 2i.) 




41 S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



the length of the subgenital plate, moderately vajiering, rather Ijlunt. 



Cephalic coxa> distinctly (c^) or very slightly (V) shorter than the 



shaft of the pronotuin. the cejihalic margin of the same armed with 



six or more spines of rather uniform size, with a few much smaller 



spines scattered between them; cephalic femora nearly (o*) or quite 



( 9 ) equal to tiie shaft of the pronotum in length, rather heavy in 



the female, armed on the external margin with five 



spines one of which is small and genicular in position, 



internal margin with fourteen to fifteen spines of 



several sizes, alternating more or less regularh' in 



Fig. 2.—Siogmo- length, discoidal spines four in number; cephahc 



mantis califor- tijjijg about half the length of the femora, armed on 

 mca n.sp. Ce- , . , • , , 



phalie view of the external margin with eight spines which leave a 



head of fe- considerable unarmed proximal diastema, internal 



male t v p e . i • , , • i i • 



(X 4.) " margin armed with twelve spines; cephalic tarsi 



reaching to the base of the femora. Median femora 

 somewhat shorter than the shaft of the pronotum; tibia? subequal. 

 Caudal femora nearly equal to the pronotum in length; tibia} subequal. 

 General color of the male cream-buff, with the pronotum very faintly 

 brownish; costal field of the tegmina chalky-white; eyes mare brown; 

 facial scutellum drab; ocelh clear orange-red; proximal doreal ab- 

 dominal segments broadly edged with seal-brown, General color 

 of the female oil green, becoming reddish-brown on the shaft of the 

 pronotum; stigma of the tegmina buff, brownish caudad; proximal 

 abdominal segments as in the male; eyes walnut brown; facial scutel- 

 lum, labrum and mouth parts pale tawny; cephahc femora edged 

 on the s]>ined margins with yellowish. 



Medsuremenls. 



Length of bod V, 45.5 mm. 46.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 13.5 " 16.5 " 



Greatest width of supra-coxal expansion, . 3 " 4.5 " 



Length of tegmen, 32 " 17 



Length of caudal femur, 9.5 " 12.5 " 



An additif)nal paratypic male has been examined, as well as a male 

 from Kelso (VIII, 12; attracted to Hght), a female from North Range, 

 Providence Mountains (VIII, 12), and one from Pasadena (F. Grinnell, 

 Jr. ; CoW. A. X. S. Phila.). There is a shght amount of variation in size 

 and considerable in color. The extra Cottonwood male is similar 

 to the type, Vjut the Kelso individual of that sex is red-brown with the 

 limbs annulate with buffy and the costal half of the tegmina sj^rinkled 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 419 



with small ashy blotches. The Pro\'idence ^lountains female is 

 .similar to the type but paler, iiiclinino; toward emerald green, with the 

 brownish on the pronotum reduced.'' The Pasadena individual is 

 in a brownish phase corresponding to that of the Kelso male, the 

 limbs being more (particularly the cephalic) or less annulate vdih 

 buffy, the tegmina entirely sprinkled with small creamy-white macu- 

 lations and the stigma marked. 



At Cottonwood all the specimens were attracted to the lights of 

 the train, the individual taken at Kelso ha\ing been captured in a 

 similar manner, while in the North Range of the Providence Mountains 

 the species was taken on green desert weeds. 



PHASMIDiE. 

 Parabacillus coloradus (Scuddtr). 



A brf)ken specimen of this species, taken at Pasadena. California, 

 by Fordyce Grinnell. Jr., has been examined. Tlie right cephalic 

 limb is aborted, the whole regenerated leg being but little longer than 

 the head. The only pre\'ious exact CaUfornian record of the species 

 is of its occurrence at Elsinore, Riverside County. 



ACRIDID^. 

 Aorydium granulatum Kirl>y. 



A single adult mule and three nymphs of this northern species were 

 taken in tall grass in meadow land at Sentinel, Yosemite National 

 Park, August 31. When compared with material from Michigan the 

 adult specimen is found to be inseparable. This is the fii-st record 

 of the species from CaUfornia. 

 Paratcttix toltecas (Sanj-un;. 



A scries (»f seven males and nine females of this species were taken 

 at Las Vegas, August 10, in a grassy well-watered strip along a stream. 

 A single female was also taken at Cottonwood. Soptemi^er 9, 

 on dry grassy ground along the coui-se of the .Mohave River. These 

 specimens are quite uniform in size, the nuiles of coui-se smaller than 

 the females, while the color varies from a hlarkish-brown base color 

 to one (»f deep dull maroon-red; the paired l)l:ickish triangles j)laced 

 caudad of the greatest width of the i)ronotuin arc present more or les* 

 distinctly on all but one of the specimens. This (tne, a male, has a 

 broad me<lio-longitudinal bar of dull ochraceous prcssent from the 

 fastigium to the apex of the pronotum, this margitied laterad at the 

 greatest uidth with blackish-brown, » 



* Thw color w probably (hu? to dwcolorntion in drj'ing. 




420 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



This is the first record of the species from Nevada and the second 

 with exact data from California, Riley havinji recorded it from Pana- 

 niiiit \'allcy, Inyo County. 

 Morsea oalifornioa St-udder. 



This very interesting Euma.stacid was found on nianzanita bushes 

 (Arctostaphylos tomcntosa), at elevations of from 5,200 feet to 5, GOO feet 

 on Mt. Lowe, August 8, where a series of two presumably adult males, 

 three females and six immature specimens wa.s taken. A single 

 female was also taken at an elevation of 3,200 feet on Echo Mountain, 

 while a male from 5,000 feet on Mt. Wilson, taken September 15, by 

 Fordyce Grinnell, Jr., is also before us. 



From the original measurement given by Scudder, "length of the 

 body and of the hind femora .... 9 mm.," it would appear 

 that the types are immature, as a pair from Mt. Lowe, which we judge 

 to be adults, measure as follows: 



Length of body, 12 mm. 16.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 2.2 " 2.7 " 



Length of caudal femur, 10 " 11 " 



There is httle variation in size in the adult specimens, the Echo 

 Mountain female, however, being slightly smaller than the others of 

 that sex. 



In color the adults show little variation, the general tone of the 

 female being dull blackish brown dusted with grayish with the 

 Umbs irregularly annulate with very dull graj^ish, except the caudal 

 tibia; which are mottled; the general color of the males is usually 

 more warm brown on the dorsum, with a narrow median dark-brown 

 line on the pronotum and much broader, poorly defined postocular 

 bars of the same color, the hmlrs aiuuilate as in the females, and in 

 two of tiie specimens the whole surface is much dusted with hoary. 

 The postocular bars of the male are sometimes continued on the 

 sides of the aVjdomen, and in the Echo Mountain female indications 

 of these bars are also pi-esent. A pale edging to the ventral margin 

 of the lateral lobes of the pronotum is present more or less distinctly 

 and of varying width in a niunber of the adults. The immature speci- 

 mens are much more uniformly red-brown than the adults, although 

 one, a female, has the coloration of adults of that sex. 



No traces of tegmina or wings are apparent. 



These insects were usually to be found perched on the upper portions 

 of the manzanita bashes. They were found to l^e very active with 

 saltatorial powers much developed, added to which their small size 




1909.J 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



421 



would have made them very difficult to capture, had they not 

 almost invariably alighted in an exposed position. As they were 

 constantly alert, the only succ&'^sful way to capture them was by a 

 quick sweep of the net. The typas of the species came from the Cahon 

 Pass and Mt. Wilson. 

 Morsea californica tamalpaisensis n. subsp. 



Types: cJ* and 9 ; Alt. Tamalpais, Marin Countv. California. 

 August 23. 1907. [Hebard Collection.] 



A series of thirteen adult males, two females and four nyniplis of 

 a small form of M. californica were taken on the slopes of Mt. Tamal- 

 pais. at elevations of from 1,500 to 

 2,100 feet, on August 23. 



This geographic race differe from 

 the typical form from the Sierra 

 Madre of southern California in the 

 angle of the vertex being slightly 

 more protuberant and more decid- 

 edly acute-angulate when seen from 

 the side, in the antennje being some- 

 what more expanded distad, in the 

 male cerci being slightly more ro- 

 bust and shorter, in the caudal margin of the pronotum being more 

 deoidodlv ansulate-emarjiiiiato and in the general size being smaller. 



Fig. 3. — M or Ken californica tamal- 

 paisensis n. siibsp. Lateral view 

 of male type. ( ,< li.) 



Mcastnu /Hints. 



Length of body. . 10 mm. II nun. 



Length of pronotum. _' " 2 2 " 



Length of caudal femur S.2 " 9 " 



The coloration is nnich as in the typical form, the nymphs being 

 ochraceous-red, one adult female also l)eing decidedly ochraceous. 



P'igs. 1-7. — LatfTal views of heads of male (I) and feiiialf (.')) of .V. rnUfornica 

 lamalpaisrnsis ami f)f male (H) aii<l female (7) of M . cnlifnniira. (X 3J.) 



These reddish indivifluals were captured on man/anita {ArrtosUiphylox 

 sp.), with the bark of wjiicji they are uniformly colored. 



The habits of this subspecies were essentially the same a.s, those of 

 the typical form. The insects were always more abundant on the 

 bushes along the summits of tlie ridges. 




422 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Paropomala pallida Brunor 



This species, which appeal's t(i l)c ratlier fienerally (Hstributed over 

 the Moliave, Colorado and Gila Deserts in suital)le environments, 

 was taken at Cottonwood, Cima, in the foothills of the Bird 

 Spring Mountains. California and Nevada, at Lyons, Nevada, and 

 Las Vegas. Nevada. At Cottonwood, September 9, seven males and 

 one female were taken from dry vegetation along the wash of the 

 Mohave River, where the species was very plentiful. At Cima, August 

 12, a single female was captured, wliile in the Bird Spring Mountains 

 and at Lyons, August 11, the species was fomid in patches of dry 

 high grass groTNing in deep sand, two males and four females being 

 taken at the former locality and two females at the latter. Grassj^ 

 spots in the desert were the haunts of the insect at Las Vegas, where 

 eleven males and five females were taken on August 10. 



In size the males are rather uniform, but the females exhibit a con- 

 siderable amount of geographic and some slight individual variation. 

 Specimens from the localities represented measure as follows : 



Cottonwood, Cal., 

 Bird Spring Mis., Cal., 

 Las Vegas, Nev., 



Cottonwood, Cal., 

 Cima. Cal., 



Bird Spring Mts., Nev., 

 Lyons, Nev., .. . 

 Las Vegas, Nev., 



Length of Length of Length of Length of 



body. pronotum. tegmen. caudal femur, 



mm. mm. mm. mm. 



. 18.5 3 13 9.2 



. 19.2 3.2 15.2 9.6 



. 20.5 3.7 14.9 9.8 

 Q 



28.8 4.9 20.5 13.5 



27 4 19 12 



36.5 6 26.5 15.3 



30.5 4.8 21.5 13 



34 5.5 22 14.5 



The series from the Bird Spring Mountains and Las Vegas exhibit 

 a considerable amount of individual variation in size in the female 

 sex, the specimens measured being nearer the maximum size in each 

 lot. 



In color, after allowance is made for green and brownish phases, 

 variation appears to be limited to a lightening of the general shades 

 in some specimeas and a general intensification in others. The Cotton- 

 wood and Lyons females are in the greenish phase, but the color is 

 decidedly yellowish with a suppression of the lateral bars, which 

 latter is absolute in all the Bird Spring Mountaias females and several 

 from Las Vegas. Three of the Bird Spring Mountains females are 

 uniform gall stone yellow, the other (;ne uniform light green with the 

 tegmina yellowish and antennae brownish. One of the l^as Vegas 




1909.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



423 



females is similar to the latter, and another from the same locaUty 

 closely approaches it. Two of the Las ^^egas females are liglit brown- 

 ish much suffu.sed on the head, pronotum and caudal limits with hoary 

 white, the lateral bare ver}- weak in two specimens. The single Cima 

 female is most peculiarly colored, being umber brownish ^^^th the 

 lateral bars marked, but the whole surface except the abdomen is 

 more or less clouded and washed with rather weak hoary white. 

 The males are quite uniform in color compared with the females, all 

 being in the green phase, the lateral bai-s j)rominent except in one 

 specimen. The color of the antennae is subject to a considerable 

 amount of variation, and often irrespective of phase, being browni.'^h. 

 yellow or orange. 



The species has pre^^ously been recorded from Indio, California, 

 and erroneously as P. virgata from Yuma, Arizona; between Yuma 

 and Gila Bend, Arizona, Palm Springs, Cahon Pa-ss and Lancaster, 

 California. 

 Bobtettiz punctatus (Scudder). 



As recently shown by Caudell,^ Scudder's Gymnes punctatus is really 

 a species of Bootettix, related to, but C[uite distinct from, the type 

 species B. argentatus, which latter appears to be peculiar to the Chihua- 

 huan desert region east of the continental divide. Tiie sjiecies of 

 the Western desert tract is invarial)ly found on greasewood {Covillea 

 Iridentata) , as is also the case with B. argentatus. 



When specimens of B. putu-tatus are compared with representatives 

 of B. (irgrntatus they show differences a.s follows: 



d 



B. aroentatua. 



B. puncUUu*. 



FastiKium compara- 

 tively brojiil, n»)t 

 Htronuly arutp-nnKii- 

 late, hiinlly fiiriniile. 



Face moilerately re- 

 trentinK. 



Kyo not mrire than half 

 aKaiti ii-< loriK an the 

 infracK-iilar hiiIcum. 



BlackiMh-br'iwn inaru- 

 lalioti^ (in lateral 

 loheH of [ironotiitn 

 antl pleura ninrke<l. 



TcRmina with more 

 niimerou'i macula- 

 tion-". 



Caudal femora with 

 the ilark hars usu- 

 ally quite promi- 

 nent. 



Sise larxer. 



FastiKium narrow, sub- 

 lanreolatc, distinct- 

 ly carinate. 



Fare very ronstider- 

 ably retreating. 



Fyo twice a.s long 

 an the infraocular 

 .tulcuH. 



nincki-ih-brown maru- 

 lationit on lateral 

 Iol>e'( of pronotum 

 amlpleura very weak. 



Teirmma with few or 

 no maculationx. 



C'au'lal femora with 

 the dark bar-t weak- 

 er or even subob.to- 

 lete. 



Site (imaller. 



B. aroeniatut. 



Fsatigium broad, sub- 

 reetanKulale to very 

 flIiKhtlyacute, hardly 

 carinate. 



Face moderately re- 

 treating. 



F\ve but little loimer 

 than the infraocu- 

 lar .sulcus. 



.As in the male. 



B. punelahu. 



FantiRium somewhat 

 produce<l, decidedly 

 acute-iinKuhite, dis- 

 tinctly carinate. 



Face very consider- 

 ably retreat ing. 



F,ye more than half 

 as long aKiiin an the 

 infraocular suIcuk. 



A.s in the male. 



A.s in the iiinle. .\s in the male. 



.•\s in the male. \n in the male 



Site larger. 



Sim nnaller. ^ 



' Proc. U. S. Nat. Mxut.. XXXIV. p. 



73. 




424 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Measurements. 



d" 9 



B. argen- B. punc- B. argen- B. punr- 



lalus. tatuii. talus. talus. 



El Paso, Cotton- El Paso, Cottoii- 



Ti'x. wood, Cal. Tex. wooil, Cal. 



iiini. mm. mm. mm. 



Leufith of l)odv 20 23 17 22 



Length of pronotum, . . . 3.9 4.2 3.2 3.8 



Length of tegmen, .... 18.5 18.5 15.8 15 



Length of caudal tegmen, .11.2 12 9.2 10.2 



The series before us is from the following localities: Cotton- 

 wood, September 9, 12 cJ*, 10 9, 1 immature specimen; Nortli 

 Range, Providence Mountains, August 12, 1 d^, 2 9,2 immature 

 specimens; Cima, August 12, 1 9 ; Kelso, August 12, 1 9.1 immature 

 specimen; foothills Bird Spring Mountains, California and Nevada, 

 August 11, 3 cJ'. 



On re-examining all the availalile material of the genus we find 

 that specimens from Yuma, Sentinel and Sahuaro Plain near Tucson 

 Mountains, Arizona, recorded by us" as B. argentatus, are reallj- B. 

 punctatus; but it also appeal's ]irf)l)able that the two species maj'- 

 intergrade in the vicinity of the divide and the mf)re elevated central 

 tract, as the specimen from Sahuaro Plain and other material from 

 Florence, Arizona, show a tendency toward B. argentatus in the form 

 of the fastigium, although distinctly punctatus in the sum total of 

 characters. The Yuma specimens are typical punctatus, the tegmina 

 being even more immaculate than is the case with the Californian 

 specimens. 



It is quite probable that the specimens of this genus previously 

 recorded from Bill Williams Fork, Indio and Palm Springs as B. 

 argentatus belong to B. punctatus. This specias produced ])ractically 

 the same stridulation as B. argentatus and in haliits was also similar. 



Amphitornus ornatus MfNeill. 



Tills species is represented by a series of two males and one female 

 from Pasadena, taken August 1 ; five males and three females from 

 Mt. Lowe, taken at elevations of from 4,000 to 4.800 feet, August 8; 

 and one pair from El Toro, Orange County, taken August 20. 



When compared with specimens from Aden, New Mexico, the Cali- 

 fornian individuals are inseparable. The pair from El Toro are more 

 reddish than the others, the pattern also being duller and less con- 



• Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1908, p. 376. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 425 



trasted, while the Mt. Lowe individuals liave the bars and niaculations 

 standing out in strong contrast. The femoral bars are limited to the 

 vicinity of the dorso-lateral carina in the El Toro specimens, more 

 extensive ventrad in the Pasadena individuals and covering the greater 

 portion of the lateral face of the femora in the Mt. Lowe representatives. 



At Pasadena the species was taken on the lower slopes of the San 

 Rafael Hills, among shrubs and dry grasses. On Mt. Lowe the insect 

 was found to be very shy, of swift but not long flight, and wlien pursued 

 closely the individuals would hide in the grasses, very effectually 

 concealing themselves. At Bl Toro the species was found common in 

 high grain growing along irrigating ditches. 



Tlie species has previously been recorded from the follo\\ing localities 

 in California: Los Angeles, Point Loma, Lancaster, Cahon Pass and 

 Gazelle. 



Opeia testacea Scudrtcr. 



Eight males, two females and two immature individuals from Las 

 Vegas, taken August 10, are referred to this species. Here the species 

 occurred in a growth of desert plants and grasses on the plain sur- 

 rounding the town. 



The broad postocular bar is more or less strongly present on the 

 head and dorsal half of the lateral lobes of the pronotum in the majority 

 of the specimens, those without indications of the l)ar having the sides 

 of the head and the whole of the pronotal lobes entirely infuscated. 



The species has been recorded from the following Californiaii local- 

 ities: Lancaster, Kern City, Tulare. Lathrop and Dominguez. 



Cordillacrii grinnelli ■)■ xp- 



Type: 9 ; South Fork of the Santa Ana Hivor, elevation 0,200 

 feet, San Jiernardino Moimtains, California, July 0, I00(). Collecteil 

 l)y Joseph Grinnell. [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.] 



Related to C. nccipiUdis, cinerea and afjinis, but difTcring from all 

 in the shorter tegmina which leave a ronsirlorable portion of the 

 abdomen exposed. The coloration is nearer to that of (iljinis, an 

 represented by Idaho specimens, but the longitudinal line on the 

 lateral fa^e of the caudal femora is more contiiuious than in that 

 species. 



Size medium (for the genu.s); form moderately slender. Head 

 but little expanding ventrad. with the dorsal leiigth about sube(|u;:l 

 to that of the doi-sum of the pronotum, the occiput very {^lightly 

 arcuate and the fastigiuni horizontal when seen from the side; fas- 

 tigiimi slightly afute-angulate with the apex rottindato-trunrate, the 

 28 




426 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



disk of the fa.stigiinn with the impressed hue of essentially the same 



form as the mar«;in of tlie fastifjium, the apex of the impressed line 



heiii<: nearer to a line drawn between the cephaHc margins of the eyes 



than to the apex of the fastiginm; angle of the fastigium when seen 



from the side rectangulate, the facial line vertical to between the 



antenna^ wiiere the face becomes considerably retreating; lateral 



foveola^ elongate-lanceolate, the ventral margin not strongly marked; 



frontal costa regularlv but very slightly expanding caudad, considerably 



sulcate ventrad of the ocellus, slightly so doi-sad; e3'e,s trigonal-ovoid, 



in length about equal to the infraocular sulcus, wiien seen from the 



doi-sum not very prominent ; antennjr about four-fifths the length of 



the caudal femora, sliglitly ensiform ])roximad. Pronotmn with the 



disk slightly less than one and one-half times as long as the greatest 



caudal width of the same; cephaUc margin subtrun- 



cate, caudal margin very slightly arcuato-angulate ; 



median carina not prominent but distinct; lateral 



carinae but little constricted mesad, moderately 



divergent caudad, the width between the same 



cephalad being tw^o-thirds of that caudad; principal 



transverse sulcus placed distinctly caudad of the 



middle. Tegmina less than three times as long as 



the disk of the pronotum, faihng to cover the ab- 



Fig. S^^Cordil- domen by nearly the pronotal length, the tegmina 



lacris grinnelli considerably narrowed distad, the apices narrowly 



outline oM^le rounded. Interspace between the mesosternal lobes 



head and pro- decidedly shallow and transverse, the width being 



type." (X 3.) equal to that of one of the lobes; interspace between 



the metasternal lobas small, subquadrate. Caudal 



femora reaching to but not surpassing the apex of the abdomen, slender, 



but more robust than usual in the genus, the great&st width contained 



about four times in the length, pattern of the pagina? well impressed, 



internal genicular lobes shghtly acute, external obtuse-angulateJ 



caudal tibia; .slightly arcuate proximad, spines numbering from eleven 



to thirteen. 



General color ochraceous-buff, becoming ochraceous on the abdomen, 

 hoary-white on the sides of the head, dark clay color on the doreum 

 of the head and pronotum and french gray distad on the tegmina. 

 The usual broad postocular bar is mars brown, the longitudinal Hne 

 on the external face of the caudal tibiae is vandyke brown and un- 

 broken. The lateral carinse of the pronotum are ochraceous-buff, 

 marked mesad with very dark brown on the metazona, with the same 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 427 



laterad all their length. Occiput darker mesad, eyes raw umber; 

 antennae clay color; face sprinkled ^\-ith blackish brown. Tegmina 

 with a few scattered quadrate brownish patches, more or less distinct 

 and chiefly proximad. Caudal femora strongly pinkish brown dorsad 

 with slight indications of three transverse bars; caudal tibiae dull 

 brownish with a faint purplish tinge, the spines with their apical 

 halves blackish. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 10.5 mm. 



Length of pronotun) .'^.0 " 



Length of tegmen, 10 " 



Length of caudal femur 11.3 '* 



In addition to the tyjie we have examined a single paratypic 

 adult and two paratypic inuiiature females. The adult differs from 

 the type only in a slightly greater intensity of coloration. 



We take great pleasure in dedicating this interesting species to Dr. 

 Joseph drinnell. to whose kindly interest we are indebted for this 

 and a number of other Californian Ortiioptera. 



Cordillacris apache Kehn and Ut-bani. 



This species, previously known only from four localities in south- 

 western New Mexico, is represented by two males and one female 

 from Cima, taken August 12. These specimens were taken in tumble- 

 weed along the railroad track, individuals being ver\' scarce. 



One of the males is slightly more ochraceous than the others, while 

 the female is rather grayish. The specimens are rather smaller than 

 the average when compared with the original series from New Mexico. 



Orphalella compta Soudder. 



This species is represented in the collections before us by eight 

 males and eight females taken at Las Vegas, Nevada, August 10, und 

 fifteen males and five females from Indio, taken July 29. 



All the Indio specimens are in the green phase, although somewhat 

 modified in several, while five-eighths of the Las Vegas series is in 

 the same phase, the remaining specimens being citiier uml)er brown 

 and buff in general tones or pinkish ochraceous marked with blackish 

 brown on the sides of the head and pronntum. \ 



At Las Vegas the species was found well distributed in grass beside 

 a stream. 



The species is now known from "^'uma, P.ill \\'illiams Fork and San 




428 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oot., 



Bernardino Ranch, Arizona: Talin Springs and Indio, California, and 

 Las Vegas, Nevada. 



Orphulella affinis Scuddcr. 



At Alaniitos Bay, July 31, this species was found common among 

 the scant grasses of the beach dunes, while at South Coronado Beach, 

 August 16, it was secured among low salt marsh plants. Nine males, 

 five females and one immature specimen were taken at the former 

 locality and two adults of each sex and four immature individuals at 

 the latter. 



A moderate amount of variation in size in both sexes is presented 

 by the Alamitos Bay series. All the specimens are in the brown 

 phase except three males from Alamitos Bay and one immature speci- 

 men from South Coronado Beach. 



The species is now known from San Diego, South Coronado and 

 Coronado Beach, Alamitos Bay, Kern City and "Colorado Desert," 

 California. 



Napaia gracilis McNeill. 



This interesting species was found at an elevation of 4,000 to 4,800 

 feet on Mt. Lowe, August 8, where it Uvas among grassas, leaping and 

 crawling about actively. The \nngs are not used for flight, serving 

 the sole purpose of stridulating organs in the male sex. The stridula- 

 tion is quite like that of Chorthippus curtipennis, but much louder. 



A series of six males and seven females was taken, and but httle 

 variation in size and color is to be noticed. The insect appeared to 

 be extremely local and was found in Ijut one location between two 

 small mountain slopes. 



The species is known from Mt. Wilson, 2,400 feet, and Mt. Lowe, 

 4,000 to 4,800 feet, the San Gabriel Mountains near Claremont, at 

 Claremont and Los Angeles, California. 



Paoloesta texana Scudder. 



A series of forty-seven Californian specimens of this very variable 

 species have been examined. This series is distributed as follows: 

 Tia Juana, August 16, one male; Coronado Beach, August 15-16, 

 five males, two females; Alamitos Bay, July 31, one female; Miramar, 

 July 31, five males, two females and three immature specimens; 

 Altadena, August 8, nine males, ten females; Pasadena, August 1, 

 three males, one female; Echo Mountain, San Gabriel Range, August 8, 

 2,700 to 3,500 feet, one male. 



Two of the males and three of the females belong to the form budd- 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 429 



iana, wliile two males and two females belong to the true texana type. 

 The remainder of the series represent the numerous intermediate 

 phases between the two extremes, except one male from Pasadena 

 which has the dorsum dull maroon, the lateral lobes almost entirely 

 pale greenish yellow and no broad postocular bar or broken remnants 

 of tlie same present, the pale lateral carina being merely edged with 

 dark laterad. 



Specimens from the beach locaUties, Pasadena and Echo Mountain, 

 are paler in color than the othei-s. 



At Tia Juana the species occurred on rock}^ liilLsides, while at Coro- 

 nado Beach it swarmed on dry grasses. At Alamitos Bay it was 

 taken on dunes, and at Miramar found very active but not common 

 back of tlie low beacli dunes. 



Ageneotettix australis Bruuor.' 



On August 12, at Cima, CaUfornia, tliis species was quite common in 

 tumbleweed along the railroad track, a series of twenty-six males 

 and seven females being taken. When compared with specimens from 

 southern Arizona, i.e., Huachuca and Tucson Mountains, the Cima 

 .series is uniformly smaller, the difference being less appreciable, 

 however, in tlie male than in the female. 



The coloration of the series is rather subdued, although tiie bars on 

 the dorsal surfaces of the caudal femora and the lateral carinsp of the 

 pronotum are marked in all the specimens. The caudal tibiie vary 

 somewhat in the exact shade of color, but all possess a distinct ochra- 

 ceous proximal annulus. 



There is considerable individual variation in the length of the 

 tegmina and wings, some having them slightly but distinctly exceeding 

 the tips of the caudal femora, otliei-s have them distinctly but not 

 greatly shorter than the tips of the femora, the average l)eing very 

 slightly shorter than the femoral tips. 



This is the first record of tjie sjiccies from California. 



Ageneotettix lierranus ■> sp- 



iyiKJs: y and 9; Summit IIouso, Madera Coimty, California. 

 Altitude, :i,2(X) feet. September 3, 1907. Collected by .M. Ilcbard. 

 (Hebard Collection.] 



' .\ single shiirt-wiiiKcd fcinuU; of this Rcnus from Cuyanmca. San Diego 

 County, California (Octolwr 1. IIMJO; (J. W. Dunn), in tlu" .Vcadrniy (V)||cction, 

 hits b('»'n rxainincd and Is rofcrrrd provLsjonally to .1. ocridcntnlis. althouRh tin- 

 statu.s of tills form i.s in tlu? authors' opinion very douhtful. It is (juit** p<>s.siljl«> 

 that the long-wuigfd fornts are more or jess eompletely diinorphie. 




430 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct.. 



Allied to A. australis Bruner, but differing in the glaucous caudal 

 tibite, the less inflated and more tapering caudal femora, the more 

 sharply defined and more decidedly sulcate frontal costa in both sexes, 

 this being narrower doi-sad in the new form, and in the facial outline 

 being truncate between the antennie, this being more decided in the 

 male than in the female. 



Size rather small; form moderately slender. Head with the dorsal 

 length equal to (cJ*) or slightly less than ( 9 ) the dorsum of the pro- 

 notum; occiput considerably ascending to the interocular region, 

 slightly arcuate in the male, hardly so in the female, the interocular 

 region elevated considerably dorsad of the dorsum of the pronotum; 

 fastigium distinctly but not greatly arcuate declivent, the fastigio- 

 frontal angle rounded obtuse, fastigium sUghtly acute-angulate in both 

 sexes when viewed from the dorsum, distinctly but shallowly excavate; 

 lateral foveolre well impressed, elongate, subtrigonal, the apex blunt. 



Fig. 9. — Ageneotettix sierranus n. sp. Lateral view of male type. (X 5.) 



cephalad, the caudal width but little exceeding half the length; facial 

 line considerably retreating ventrad and distinctly sul)truncate and 

 vertical from the fastigio-facial angle to a point directly cephalad of 

 the insertion of the antennae; frontal costa with the margins regularly 

 diverging caudad with a hardly appreciable coiLstriction in the vicinity 

 of the ocellus, distinctly sulcate dorsad and niesad and shallowly so 

 ventrad; eyes moderately prominent in the male, iiardly so in the 

 female, eUiptical reniform in outline, in length about twice (cJ^) or 

 half again (?) as long as the infraocular sulcus; antcnnie equal to 

 ( 9 ) or slightly exceeding (d*) the head and pronotum in length, 

 slightly depressed, the apices acuminate. Pronotimi with the greatest 

 dorsal width about four-fifths the length, the dorsal hue of the same 

 slightly depressed mesad when seen from the side; cephahc margin 

 angulato-truncate, caudal margin broadly obtuse-angulate, the imme- 

 diate angle well rounded in the female; median carina distinct 




1909.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



431 



Fig. lU. — Ayeneotel- 

 tixsierrnnusn.s^p. 

 Dorsal view of 

 licarl and prono- 

 tuin. (X 5.) 



throughout its length, not high; lateral carinse low, the width 

 between them at the cephahc margin nearly twice 

 that at the first trans vei-se sulcus and but little 

 more than half that at tlie caudal margin; lateral 

 lobes very sligiitly deej^er than wide, ventro- 

 cephahc angle obtuse, ventro-caudal angle well 

 rounded. Tegmina reaching to the middle of the 

 genicular arches of the caudal femora, tips rather 

 narrowly rounded. Prosternum moderately inflated, 

 a distinct, transverse, oblong swelling present ; in- 

 terspace between the mesosternal lobes distinctl)-^ 

 transverse, a.s wide as one of the lobes; metasternal 

 lobes subcontiguous. Caudal femora very slightly 

 shorter than the length of the tegmina, considerably 

 inflated proximad, the pregenicular portion quite 

 slender (for the genus), pattern of thepaginae distinct 

 and regular but not veiy deeply impre.'^sed; caudal 

 tibia) with eight spines on the lateral margins, nine on the internal 

 margins. 



General color buff, pale on the venter and abdomen, the doi-sum 

 tenfling toward ochraceous and clay color. The usual marking.s found 

 in species of the genus, i.e., on the dorsum of the caudal femora, 

 on the disk of the metazona and bordering the lateral carinin laterad 

 and the narrow postocular line, are distinctly marked in seal Ijrown, 

 the tegmina with a number of small cjuadrate patches of the same and 

 with the pleura nnich touched witii the same color. Lateral carinip 

 decidedly contrasted, the ventral portion of the metazona of the lateral 

 lobes iLsually being pale when contra.'^ted with the remainder of the 

 lobe. Face mf»re or less sprinkled with fine spots of bistre, e.xcopt a 

 pair of area.s ventrad of the eyes which are pale. Myes bioccoli 

 brown, sufTused more (ventrad) or less (dorsad) heavily with seal 

 brown. Antennif cream-bufT. waslicd with very dull mauve distad. 

 the extreme tips very pale. C'au(hil tibiie pale bufT or bnIT yellow, more 

 or less completely wasjifd with very pale and rhili niaiivo and speckled 

 with dark [jatchcs proxiiriafl, a seal brown genicular annulus present, 

 the spines l)lackish to their bjt«es. Tarsi buffy. more or les.s distinctly 

 and strikingly marked with blackish. 



Mt(isur( nunts. 



Length of body, . 

 Length of pronotum, 

 Lengtii of tegmen, . 

 Length of caudal femur. 



12 mm. 

 ■ ) •• 



9..') " 

 S.() " 



9 

 L5.^ mm. 

 2.S " 

 lO.S " 

 10.3 " 




432 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Two paratypic males and one paratypic female, as well as three males 

 from Raymontl, Madera County, California, taken September 3, 1907, 

 have been examined l)y the autlioi"s. There appears to be little 

 variation in size and iiothinj; noteworthy in structure, except that the 

 lateral foveokc are broader in some specimens than in the tyi)es and 

 in some more rectangular than elongato-triironal. In color there is 

 considerable variation, a tendency toward linear streaking of the 

 doi-sum of head, pronotum and tegmina being noticed in one Sunuiiit 

 House male, while two of the Ra^'mond males are rather rufescent and 

 the remaining one is j)redoniinatingl3' buffy yellow, with the pattern 

 strikingly contrasted, the occipital bai-s and maculations of the anal 

 area of the tegmina absent with those parts pure buffy -j^ellow. In 

 some specimens the caudal tibiae are inclined more or less strongly 

 toward glaucous. 



At .Summit House the species was scarce and extremely active, 

 being found in short, dry gr.ass and tarweed under a scattering growth 

 of oak. At Raymond it was taken in stubble and was not common. 

 The contrastingly colored tarsi are very conspicuous in life. 



Ligarotettix coqnilletti .McNeill. 



A series of f(jrt3^-nine specimens from locaUtias in the Mohave and 

 Las Vegas Deserts are referred to this species, to which L. kunzei 

 Caudell from southern Arizona is closely related, differing only in 

 the average larger size and slenderer caudal femora. The series is 

 distributed as follows: Cottonwood, September 9, 2 cJ*, 1 9 ; 

 Kelso, August 12, 4 d", 2 9 ; Cima, August 12, 3 d", 3 9 ; North 

 Range, Providence Mountains, August 12, 1 9 ; foothills Bird Spring 

 Mountains, CaUfornia and Nevada, August 11, 12 cJ^, 9 9,1 immature 

 individual; Las Vegas, Nevada, August 10, 9 cJ*, 2 9. 



In .size there appears to be considerable geographic variation, 

 Cima individuals being quite small, while the largest female of the 

 Bird Spring Mountains series and of the two of that sex from Kelso 

 are almost as large as individuals of L. kunzei. Individual variation 

 is also quite marked in the Bird Spring Mountains series and the two 

 Kelso females are rather different in size, one of the four males from 

 the latter locahty also appreciably exceeding the others from that 

 region in size. Average specimens from the various locahties measure 

 a> follows: 




1909.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



433 



Length of Length of Length of 



body. pronotuin. tegmen. 



mm. mm. mm. 



Cottonwood, Cal., ... 14.5 3 14.5 



Kelso, Cal., 13.8 2.9 14.1 



Kelso, Cal., 15.5 3.2 16 



Cima, Cal., 13.3 2.9 12 5 



ama, Cal., 14 2.9 13.5 



Bird Spg. Mts., Cal.-Nev., . 13.3 2.5 12.6 



Bird Spg. Mts., Cal.-Nev., . 15.3 3 13.9 



Las Vegas, Nev., ... 14 2.9 14 



o 



Cottonwood, Cal., ... 19 3.5 17.1 



Kelso, Cal., 21 3.9 18 



Kelso, Cal., 23.3 3.8 19.2 



Cima, Cal., 17 7 3.3 15 



Qma, Cal., 17.5 3.3 16.7 



North Range, Prov. Mts., Cal., 19.5 3.7 17.8 



Bird Spg. Mts., Cal.-Nev., . 19.8 4 16.8 



Bird Spg. Mts., Cal.-Nev., .21.2 4.3 20 



Las Vegas, Nev., . . . 18.5 3.8 18.5 



Length of 

 caudal femur. 



mm. 



8.7 



8.3 



9.1 



7.3 



8 



8 



8.3 



8 



9.6 

 10.5 

 11.3 



8.9 



9.1 

 10 



10.2 

 11 



9.9 



The large KeLso and Bird Spring Mountains females are very similar 

 in size to individuals of the Arizonan kunzci, as will l)e seen by com- 

 paring the measurements given above with those of kunzei recently 

 published by the authoi-s,* l)ut on comparing the proj)Ortions of the 

 caudal femur the relationship of the larger Californian spocimons is 

 seen to be wth coquillelti. It appears quite probable that kunzei is 

 merely a geogra|)hic race of coquHUtli. 



The color form with blackish brown on the prozona of the lateral 

 lobes of the pronotum, genae and pleura already described by the 

 autlioi-s from Yuma material is strongly represented in the California 

 coquillelti, two males and two females from Cima and five nuilcs and 

 four females from the liird Spring Mountains being in this phase. 

 The Las \'egas and Kelso scries are uniformly paler and loss contrast- 

 ingly colored, the La.s \^egas one very much paler and grayer, than 

 the other lots; the Cottonwood individuals are dusty blackish- 

 gray with the ochraceous tones reduced tf) a mininunn. 'Hie doi-sal 

 femoral bars are cjuite strongly marked in the individuals with the 

 blackish-brown markings on the pronotum, while the doi-sal aspect 

 is also more buffy in these specimens. 



At Cottonwood the species was found common <»n grea-^ewood 

 (Covillea tridctitata) , and plentiful at Kelso and in the Bin^i Spring 



*Proc. Acad. Nat. Sri. Phila., 1908, p. 3H\. 




434 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Mountains on the same plant. At Cinia it was found on small thorny 

 hushes, and at Las Vegas one small colony was located in a low thicket 

 of spiny ilesert hushes. 



The species was originally described from Los Angeles Comity. 

 California, and has .since been recorded from Needles, California, and 

 \uma, Arizona, by Bruner, and Yuma, Arizona, and Palm Springs and 

 Lancaster, California, by Scudder. Specimens from Yuma examined 

 by the prasent authors are clearly kunzei, and it a]>peai-s ])robal)le 

 that the records from Yuma and possibly from Needles and Talm 

 Springs may be the same. True coquilletti appears to be a iMohavan 

 and Nevadan form. 

 Arphia ramona Kebn. 



From the evidence of a series of eighteen specimens of this species 

 before us it is apparent that it enjoys a considerable vertical range and 

 also that it is considerably modified by the same. This series is from 

 the follo\\-ing localities: Pasadena, July 6, 1899 ((Fordyce Grinnell, 

 Jr.), two males; Mt. Lowe, August 8, 4,700 feet, one female, 5,300 to 

 5,600 feet, one male; Ken worthy, San Jacinto Mountains, 4,500 to 5,000 

 feet, June 3-8 (Fordyce Grinnell, Jr.), one male, three females; Straw- 

 berry Valley, San Jacinto Mountains, 6,000 feet, July 18 (F. Grinnell, 

 Jr.), one male; Santa Ana River, San Bernardino Mountains, 5,500 to 

 6,200 feet, July 1-14 (Joseph Grinnell), three males, one female; 

 Fish Creek, San Bernardino Mountains, 6,500 to 7,200 feet, June 17 

 to July 10 (Joseph Grinnell), one male, three females; Mt. Pinos, 

 Kern County, June 6, 1904 (F. Grinnell, Jr.), one female. 



When compared with the types from San Diego and a paratypic 

 series of two males and three females, the specimens from points under 

 6,000 feet elevation are seen to be very similar to the types, the tegmina 

 and wings alone being slightly longer in several of the mountain 

 specimens. The individuals from greater elevations than 6,000 

 feet show a perceptible reduction in size, which is very apparent when 

 the specimens are arranged serially according to altitude. There also 

 appears to be a shght flattening of the median carina of the pronotum 

 in individuals from the higher regions. 



The female specimen from Fish Creek, 7,200 feet elevation, measures 

 as follows: Length of body, 31 mm.; pronotum, 6.2; tegmen, 26; 

 caudal femur, 15.3. 



There is a coasiderable amount of individual variation in the general 

 color, this being blackish or brownish, strongly speckled or nearly 

 uniform, the pale stripe on the anal field of the tegmina also being 

 equally variable in its width, presence or absence. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 435 



At 5,300 to 5,600 feet on Mt. Lowe the species was found on a steep 

 rock slide and at 4,700 feet it occurred on a steep slope. 



Tliis species has been previously recorded from but two localities — 

 San Diego and Los Angeles, California. 

 Chimarooephala incisa Caudell. 



A single .specimen of this species, taken at an elevation of 5,500 feet 

 on the Santa Ana River, San Bernardino Mountains, June 14, by Dr. 

 Joseph Grinnell, has been examined. This individual is quite blackish, 

 with the femoral and pronotal maculatioas strongly contrasted when 

 compared with individuals from San Diego and Claremont, California. 



We have followed CaudelP in using this name for the species usually 

 known as C. pacifica Thomas. 

 Encopiolophus californicus Bniiier. 



A female specimen of this species was taken among sand dunes at 

 Alamitos Bay, July 31, while one male individual was captured along 

 the Mohave River at Cottonwood, September 9. The Cottonwood 

 specimen is smaller than the measurements given by Bruner for the 

 male sex, the length of body being 15 mm., that of the pronotum 3.3, 

 of the tegmen 13 and of the caudal femur 10, although in almost all 

 other respects the specimen is typical. The lateral carina; of the 

 pronotum are somewhat undulate on the prozona in the male, although 

 nearly straight in the female. Both specimens are in a brownish 

 phase similar to the male type. 



The only previous record of the species is that of the type — Los 

 Angeles, California. 

 EncoptolophuB robustus n- sp- 



Type: ? ; Los Angeles River near Los Angeles, California. August 

 24, 1907. (Otho Poling.) [Ilclmrd O.llection.] 



Closely related to E. Icxcnsis and sulxjuicilis, differing in tiie more 

 robust build, more prominent and elevated pronotal carina?, the 

 lateral ones being less divergent caudad than in /rxc/f.s/.s, in the more 

 excavate fastigium and the more inflated caudal femora. 



This species is not at all close to E. pallidus Bruner, with ('(>ty|»es of 

 which it has been cf)mparcd. 



Size medium; fonn robust though slightly compressed. Head 

 with the dorsum considerably arcuate when seen from the side, 

 though not elevated dorsad of the median pronotal caritui, interspace 

 between the eyes rather broad though less than the sjiort diameter 

 of the eye; fastigium as much arcuate declivent as the occii)ut rises 

 to the interspafo between the eyes, suljpyriform, slightly lonjjer than 

 wide, rather deeply excavate, a distinct median carina present on the 



• Proc. EtU. Soc. Wash.. VII. p. 124! 




436 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 



caudal portion and becoming subol)solcte on the occiput; angle of 

 thefastigiuni and face rounded obtuse; lateral foveolae trigonal, rather 

 large, niotlcrately excavate; frontal costa as a whole rather broad, 

 moderately and regularly expanding from the distinct fastigio-facial 

 division to the ocellus, below which it is shghtly constricted then 

 moderately expanded to the clypeal suture, sulcate throughout except 

 close to the clypeal suture; eyes reniform-elliptical, shghtly prominent, 

 somewhat exceeding the infraocular sulcus in length; antcnua? 

 distinctly less than the head and pronotum in length. Pronot\im 

 with the median carina moderately elevated, rather uniform in height, 

 although tli'> «>ct;,„, «,,. il>,. n.^tazona is a trifle lower than that on the 



Fig. 11. — Encoptolophus robustus n. sp. Lateral view of type. (X 3.) 



prozona, the incision being well marked and rather broad; lateral 

 carinse marked, regularly divergent caudad, the space separating 

 them caudad half again as much as that cephalad, the carinse being 

 sinuate for a short di.stance on the caudal portion of the prozona; 

 cephaUc angle of the disk broad obtuse, caudal angle of the disk 

 slightly obtuse with, the angle narrowly rounded; 

 lateral lobes deeper than long, slightly narrowing 

 ventrad, the ventral margin considerably sinuate 

 cephalad. Tegmina very slightly surpassing the 

 tips of the caudal femora; intercalary vein with 

 the proximal half nearer to the ulnar vein, the distal 

 half equidistant between the ulnar and median 

 veins. Interspace between the mesosternal lobes 

 strongly transverse ; interspace between the metaster- 

 nal lobes quadrate. Caudal femora considerably 

 inflated, the greatest width being about one-third 

 the length; pattern of the pagina well impressed 

 and regular, the expansion of the ventral carinse 

 shght; caudal tibise with nine to ten spines on the 

 external margias. 



Fig. 12. —Encop- 

 tolophus ro- 

 bustus n. sp. 

 Dorsal view of 

 head and pro- 

 notum. (X 3.) 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 437 



General color wood brown "^'ith the tegminal bars and general mottling 

 bistre. Head with the occiput and face thickly mottled and finely dotted, 

 the postocular region vdth a poorly defined post ocular bar present only 

 on tlie face, this bordered doi"sad -uith a patch of almost clear wood 

 brown ; eyes tawny olive clouded ventrad with bistre ; antennae wal- 

 nut-brown with obscure broad dark annuli ; face with two obsolete 

 and poorly defined transvei-se blackish bai-s on the frontal costa ventrad 

 of the antenna^. Pronotum almost uniformly mottled with the 

 general colors, a sliglit blackish patch present in the middle of each 

 lateral lobe. Tegmina with three dark transvei-se bai*s, tiie two distal 

 ones obUque and the third from the base fading distad, the apical 

 portion with nimierous very small dots, the bai-s not reacliing the anal 

 field which has a lumiber of small irregular maculations. Wings 

 bluish-hyaline proximad. the apex with the slightest possible infuma- 

 tion. the stigma brownish. Caudal femora with three dark bands, 

 one median, one pre-apical, one genicular, these bands more distinct 

 and blackish on the dorsum, genicular arches and low^er portion of 

 the paginPB, which latter the median one crosses obliquely, the pre- 

 apical one being marked on the ventral surface, though all are present 

 on the ventral sulcus and internal face; caudal tibiae pale glaucous- 

 blue with a wood-brown proximal anmilus which is touched with 

 darker })rown, spines blackish for the gieator portion of the longtli. 



^fcasurcmfnts. 



r.ength f)f body, 10 mm. 



T.ength of pronotum, . 15 " 



liCngth r)f tegmen, . . 1.') S " 



Length f)f caudal femur, . 1 1 .3 " 



In addition to the type two specimens of this species, one male and 

 one female, in the U. S. National Museum collection, from Los Angeles 

 (0)f|uillett), liave been examined. These indi\iduals agree with tlie 

 type in all essential characters, the female, however, being somewhat 

 larger. The measurements of these specimens are as follows : 



6" 9 



Length of body, . 16 3 mm. 21 T) mm. 



Length of pronotiun. 

 Length of tegmen. 

 Length of caudal fcnnir. 



In color the Los Angeles j)air are .^lightly paler, with the tegminal 

 and femoral bars less plainly indicated in tlic female, wliilo the glau- 




43S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [O^'t., 



cous-blue of the caudal tibise is paler than in the type. The wing of 

 the male is distinctly very pale yellowish-hyaHne proximad. 



Camnula pellucida (Scu<l<ler). 



Un JSanta Catalina Island this species was found to be extremely 

 local, but plentiful in a small area of short grass, where one male and 

 eight females were taken on August 7. At ^lill Valley, August 23, 

 the species was found imcommon on dry grassj^ hillsides, two females 

 being taken, while a single male was captured at Merced, August 30, 

 in very dr}-, yellow, oat-like grass. 



The Santa Catahna Island and Merced individuals are more yellowish 

 in color than the Mill Valley specimens. 



Hippisous pardalinua (Snussure). 



Six specimens, two males and four females, from the San Bernardino 

 Mountains, taken by Dr. Joseph Grinnell, belong to this widely dis- 

 tributed species. One male and two females are from Fish Creek, 

 at an elevation of 6,500 feet. June 18-20; the remaining individuals 

 being from the South Fork of the Santa Ana River, at an elevation 

 of 6,200 to 6,700 feet, July 1-24. 



The disk of tlie wing is orange vermilion in all the specimens instead 

 of yellow as usualh' dascribed, but in general characters and proportions 

 no other differences are noted. Several of the females have a con- 

 siderable amount of hoary-white suffusion. 



The only previous exact Californian records were from San Diego 

 and Rock Spring, southern California. 



Hippiscus negleotus (Thomas). 



Four males and ff)ur females of this species from the South Fork 

 of the Santa Ana River, San Bernardino Mountains, taken at an 

 elevation of 6.200 feet, on July 6 and August 26, by Dr. Joseph Grinnell, 

 and a pair from Mt. Pinos, the female with a supplementary "Fotrero" 

 label, taken .June, 1904 (9 June 7), by F. Grinnell, Jr., have been 

 examined. A consideraVjle amount of variation is present in the 

 series, but nothing other than one would expect in this very variable 

 species. The tegminal stripe is veiy broadly marked in one male 

 specimen. 



This is the first record of this species from southern California, the 

 only previous records from the State being from the Sierran region. 



Lepras interior Bruner. 



A single male of this species from the foothills of the Bird Spring 

 Mountains, McCollough Range, Nevada, August 11, has been examined. 

 It is very similar in character to a series from the Salt Lake Valley, 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 439 



Utah, and was collected on a Ijare volcanic mountain side. The 

 specimen is slightly smaller than the original measurements of the 

 male sex given by Bruner. This is the firet record of the species from 

 Nevada, and in fact from any locality but the Salt Lake Valley. 



Lepras glaucipennis Scudder.'o 



A series of eleven males and eight females of this species are in- 

 cluded in the collection, taken at the following localities : Tia Juana, 

 August 16, two d' , one nymph; El Torn, August 20, one d' , one 9 ; 

 Santa Catalina Island, August 3 and 7, six d, one 9 ; Pasadena, 

 August 1, two d , three ? , one additional 9 taken June 10, 1898, by 

 F. Grinnell, Jr., and Echo Mountain, San Gabriel Range, elevation 

 3,100 feet, August 8, two 9 . 



At Tia Juana it was found on rocky hillsides, while at El Toro it 

 occurred in roUing grain fields. On Santa Catalina Island it was 

 uncommon in diy places, among rocks and scant grasses in a canyon 

 bed, the sides of the mesa of the San Rafael Hills Ijeing frequented at 

 Pasadena where it was veiy scarce. On Echo Mountain the species 

 was numerous at 3,100 feet elevation. 



There is some variation in general size and in the length of the \\nng 

 in this species, the general coloration also exhibiting a tendency to 

 red-brown suffusions, particularly on the head and pronotum, while 

 the disk of the wing shows less greenish and more bluish in some 

 specimens than in others. The latter is particularly true of one 

 Pasadena female specimen. 



This species has been recorded from Point Loma, La Jolla, Los 

 Angeles, Rubio Wa.'^h, Altadena, Santa Catalina and Santa Rosa 

 Islands, California, and Hermosillo, Sonora and Durango and San Luis 

 Potosi, Me.xico. Two females from San l)ieg(i have been examined 

 by the authors. 



DisBOsteira iparoata Saussure. 



A series of fifteen males and nine females was taken in a field of 

 stubble at Raymond, September 3, and a single female was secured in 

 a field of very dry, yellow, oat-like grass at Merred, August 30. 



This species exhibits a great amount of variation in size and color, 

 the measurements of the extremes of each sex being as follows: 



'"The snffinifti.s from thp Huarfiura MouritaiiiM, .Arizona, r«'r<ir(l(><l ^^)y tlip 

 senior author (Pror. Acad. .\'al. .Sri. I'hiUi., l'.X)7, n. 'M) a» L. ijUiuri jtcnnin , 

 when c'xaniiiied with tfie pn'.Hcnt .scries are sfcn to he L. cijanruH. 




440 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



mm. 



Length of body, 27 



Length of tegmen, 29 



The measured specimens are all from Raymond. 



Three of the Raymond males and two of the females are extremel}'' 

 pale in color, almost uniform straw-yellow in general tone, the pronotal, 

 tegminal and femoral maculations being of the very faintest character. 

 The ^ings of these pale individuals are either clear yellowish-hyaline 

 without any maculations or with very faint indications of the fuscous 

 cloud of the normal type. This yellowish phase is approached by 

 two of the Raymond females, the remainder, however, of both sexes 

 being of the normal type. 



The habits of this species have been described 1)}^ the authors in a 

 previous paper." 



This species has been reported from the San Joaquin-SacramentO' 

 Valley between Merced and Redding. 

 Dissosteira venasta (St&l). 



This species has been examined from a number of localities extending 

 from Miramar and San Diego to Mill Valley, CaUfornia. The series 

 is distributed as follows: Miramar, July 31, ten cJ*, 7 9 ; Pasadena, 

 August 1, five d^ , ten 9 ; Rubio Canyon, San Gabriel Mountains, 

 August 8, three d^ ; Santa CataUna Island, August 3, four d^, seven 9 ; 

 Raymond, September 3, three d ; Ahwahnee, September 3, one 9 ; 

 Miami, September 3, one 9 ; Summit House, Septembei" 3, three d, 

 one 9 ; Sentinel, August 31, one d. 



Specimeas from the \acinity of Pasadena and Miramar are as a rule 

 larger than those from the other localities, resembling in this respect 

 specimens from San Diego. Santa Catalina Island individuals are 

 smaller than representatives from the adjacent mainland, while the 

 specimeas in the Mill A^alley series are appreciably smaller than the 

 southern CaUfornian mainland material. Specimens from the west 

 slope of the Sierras are very similar in size to Mill \^alley individuals. 

 The following measurements may be of interest : 



Length of body, 18 



Length of tegmen, .... 

 I>ength of caudal femur, . 



^^Proc. Acad. Nat. Sei. Phila., 1906, p. 378. 




1909.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



441 



6" 



Length of body, 

 Length of tegmen, 

 Length of caudal femur, 



Length of body, . 

 Length of tegmen. 

 Length of caudal femur, 



Length of body. . 

 Length of tegmen. 

 Length of caudal femur. 



There is an appreciable amount of indi\ndual variation in each 

 lot, but apparently average specimens have been selected for measur- 

 ing. 



The caudal angle of the disk of the pronotum varies somewhat 

 in the flegree of angulation, one extreme being subrectangulate. the 

 other distinctly ol)tupe, the apex more or less rounded. Tlie median 

 carina of the pronotum is rather varial^le in elevation and inflation, 

 and in a single female frf)m Ahwahnee, which has the proiiotal cre^^t 

 quite low, the prozonal portion is uniform and not arcuate. 



The general base color varies from dull blackish-brown to ochraceous- 

 V)ufF, the maculations more or less prominent in all l)ut a few individ- 

 uals which liave them quite weak. Tlie color variations, a'^ far as 

 can be determined, are not correlated geographically, dark and pale 

 individuals being present from localities represented by a series of 

 any size. There is also some variation in tlie intensity, fenestration and 

 shape of the fuscous band of the wing and also a little in the width of 

 the same. 



This species is usually common where fouixl and is verj' active and 



elusive, flying short distances and alighting precipitately. It occurred 



on dr>' grass hillsides at Mill Valley and in tarwee<l, stubHe and 



meadow land on the west slope of the Sierras. At Miramar it was 



29 




442 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



found hack from the shore, aloiip; the border of a field of dry prass near 

 high weeds, while in Santa Catalina Island it frequented dry places 

 among rocks and grasses. 



Tiie range of this species in California is entirely west of tlie Sierras 

 and Sierra Madre and San Jacinto ranges, as far as known not occurring 

 in the true desert regions. Coquillett has recorded it from the San 

 Joaquin-Sacramento Valley from Redding to Merced and from Los 

 Angeles, while Baker has credited it to Claremont and Rehn to San 

 Diego. Still described it from San Francisco. We have followed 

 Bruner" in placing this species in the genus Dissosteira, to which it 

 appears to be more closely related than to Spharagmion. 



Laotlsta gibbosus Saussure. 



This species is represented by a considerable series distributed as 

 follows : Tia Juana, August 16, one 9 ; Los Angeles River, Los Angeles, 

 August 24, two d, three 9 ; Pasadena, August 1, twelve cJ*, seven- 

 teen 9 ; near Rubio Canyon, August 8, four c? , two 9 ; Echo Moun- 

 tain, 2,700 to 3.500 feet, Augu-st 8, two d^. 



There is considerable individual variation in size, this, however, 

 being more noticeable in the male than in the female, while in color 

 the only noticeable variation is a tendency toward a blackish coloration 

 in some individuals and washing with ochraceous in others. 



At Pasadena the species was found to be common on the slop&s . of 

 the San Rafael Hills, while it was equally numerous on Echo Mountain. 

 At Tia Juana it occurred on a rocky hillside overgrown with bushes 

 which were dry and parched. 



The species has been recorded from Los Angeles, San Diego and 

 Claremont, southern California. 

 Mestobregma rubripenne (Bruiier). 



A single male and three females of this specias were taken at Qma, 

 Augast 12, in low bashes near the railroad, and a single female was 

 secured in the foothills of the Bird Spring Mountains, CaUfornia, 

 Augast 11, in sand. At Cima the specias was extremely local. 



The Californian specimens are all very slightly smaller than repre- 

 sentatives from the Huachuca Mountains, Arizona, and also appre- 

 ciably paler, but no other characters of importance show differences 

 worthy of mention. The pattern, form of the caudal femora, height 

 of the median carina of the pronotum and width of the wing-bar are 

 the same as in the Arizona material. The disk of the wing is yellow 

 or yellowish in all but one specimen. 



« Biol. Cent. Amer., Orth., II, p. 163. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 443 



The previous records of the species are all from southeastern and 

 southern Arizona. 



Trepidulus rosaoeas (Scudder). 



At Las ^^egas, Nevada, August 10, this species was found numerous 

 in bare desert places, both the typical phase ^vdth the vang roseate 

 proximad and one with the same portion hyahne with an extremely 

 faint whitish suffusion being taken. The series numbers twenty- 

 five males and seven females, each phase represented by sixteen indi- 

 viduals. Fourteen males and two females have the wings roseate 

 and eleven males and five females have the same members hyaUne. 



There is httle variation in size, although the tegmina and wings 

 vary somewhat in length. The degree of production of the ventro- 

 caudal angle of the lateral lobes of the pronotum varies considerably 

 and in a number of specimens the angle is well rounded. The character 

 of this angle cannot be correlated with the color of the wings. The 

 general color is more ashy in some individuals than in others, some- 

 times touched with dull reddish and again with the maculations more 

 decided than in others. The Nevada specimens as a rule are paler than 

 repre«!cntatives from southeastern Arizona, but they are well matched 

 in individuals from the lower Arizona deserts at Yuma and Florence. 



Derotmema delioatalam Souddcr. 



The pubUshed records and the material at hand indicate that this 

 species is well distributed over tlie lower portions of the Mohave 

 desert and a con.siderable area of the Gila desert. A series of fifty- 

 four Californian and Nevadan specimens is now before us, the following 

 localities being represented: Cottonwood, September 9, two males, 

 two fenmlcs; Goffs, San Bernardino County, California, September 

 TO, f)ne female; Kelso, August 12, five males, seven females; North 

 Range of Providence Mountains, August 12, six males, four females; 

 foothills Bird Spring Mountains, California, August II, two males, 

 six females; foothills Bird Si)ring Mountains, Nevada, August 11, 

 ten males, eight females; Ardpii, I>incoln County, Nevada, August 

 9, one female. When compared with two [)airs from Sentinel, Mari- 

 copa County, Arizona, the eyes of all the Californian and Nevadan 

 individuals are seen to be slightly less prominent than in the Sentinel 

 specimeas, but in all the essential characters thoy fully agree. The 

 geographic and individual differences in size are very slight, but the 

 caudal margin of the disk of the pronotum varies from brondlytobtuse- 

 angulate to subarcuate. The Kolso and Goffs individuals arc paler 

 than the others, in this respect resembling the Sentinel specimens, 




444 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [<^<'<-, 



although the hUter have the pattern more decided tliai\ the foiiner. 

 The Bird Spring Ah)untains series has as a rule a pale ferrufjiiious 

 apjieai-ance, although a few are somewhat ashy, while the N(jrth 

 Range and Goffs specimens are decidedly ashy, the former, however, 

 with the pattern well contrasted, in the males as strongly as in the 

 iSentinel individuals. The Kelso series is whitish or pale huffy yellow 

 in general tone, while the Cottonwood specimens more nearly resemble 

 the Bird Spring Mountains series than any of the others. The Arden 

 specimen is nuich like Kelso individuals, but the head and portions 

 of the pronotum and cephalic and median limbs are suffused with 

 dull vermilion. 



As far as examined the bar on the wing appeare to be uniform in 

 size, while the disk is very slightly more yellowish than in the Sentinel 

 specimens. 



At Kelso, in the Bird Spring jMountains, and in the North Range 

 of the Providence Mountains the species was found on the ground and 

 also on small desert weeds, frequently in arroyos. 



The previous Californian records of the species are from Mohave 

 and Lancaster. 



Derotmema laticinctum Scudder, 



It was with consideral)le surprise that this species was recognized 

 in the series of Orthoptera taken at Cima, California, on August 12. 

 This locality is represented by a series of sixteen males and four females 

 which fully agrees with eastern Arizona and New Mexico material. 

 At Cima the speci&s was plentiful. 



This is the first record of the species from California. 



Derotmema saussareanum Scudder. 



This southern Californian species is represented by a series of thirty 

 specimens taken as follows : Pasadena, August 1, eleven males, thirteen 

 females; near Rubio Canyon, altitude 1,400 to 1,600 feet, August 8, 

 two females; Los Angeles River, Los Angeles, August 24, one male; 

 Beaumont, Riverside County, July 30, one male; Devore, San Ber- 

 nardino County, September 9, one male; summit Cahon Pass, Sep- 

 tember 9, one female. 



There is considerable variation in the base color in the series, the 

 Pasadena representation exhibiting numerous modifications, ashy, 

 buffy, dull reddish-brown and sometimes overcast with a hoary 

 suffasion. 



At Pasadena the insect was found common on dry spots in and near 

 the Arroyo Seco. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 445 



The species has previously been recorded from San Bernardino, 

 Colt on, Claremont, Los Angeles, Rubio Wash. Anaheim, San Diego, 

 Coronado and Cahon Pass. 



Conozoa behrensi Saussure. 



A series of fifty-nine specimens is now before iis, distributed as fol- 

 lows: Altadena, August 25 (PoUng), nine males, sixteen females; 

 Pasadena, August 1, fifteen males, five females; Alamitos Bay, July 

 .31, five males, five females; Tia Juana, August 16, one male, two 

 females; Cottonwood, September 9, one male; Tracy, Alameda 

 County, August 30, one female. There is considerable individual 

 variation in size in both sexes, the extremas of the series of females 

 from Alamitos Bay, for example, measiu'ing as follows: 



Length of body, 2(5 nuii. .30 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 5.1 " 7 



Length of tegmen, 25.2 " 30 



Length of caudal femur 14.8 " 17.8 " 



In color numerous shades of umber, gray-ljrown, dull ferruginous 

 and occasionally pale ochre occur as the principal value, the macula- 

 tions being veiy pale in some individuals and strongly marked in 

 othei-s. The coloration of this insect appears to be profoimdly modified 

 by its environment, an. individual from the sandy Arroyo Seco at 

 Pasadena being in the i)ale ochre phase. The tegminal maculations 

 are as a rule quite distinct, though varying considerably in lengtli, the 

 width, however, showing but little variation, while the positions of 

 the bars appear to l)e fixed. 



The fuscous band of the wing varies considerably in width and 

 intensity, while the depth of the yellow color of the tlisk is distinctly 

 variable. The caudal tibia' are purplish pink in some sixH'imens and 

 vermilion in others, the latter in by far the greater majority of the 

 specimens. The very pale Arroyo Seco specimen has the caudal 

 tibia? rather dark Hesh color, yellowisli toward the base, no blackish 

 genicular patch present. The latter is strongly marked in the 

 majority of the specimens. 



At Tia Juana the species was found in a div river bottom, some of 

 the Pasadena individuals being from a similar situation, while at 

 Alamitos liay it frefpiented scant vegetation on the l)oach dunes. 

 Its occurrence at Cottonwood in typical Mohavan surroiuidings is 

 rather surprising as the species is only known elsewhere from* the San 

 Joaquin ^'alley aiifl tlie slopes and valleys facini: the Pacific. 




446 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



This species has been definitely recorded from San Diego, Claremont 

 and Guadehipe, California. 



Conozoa suloifrons (Scuddcr). 



At Las Vegas, Nevada, a series of ten males and ten females of this 

 species was taken on August 10, while a single male was collected at 

 Indio on July 29. 



When compared with a considerable series from Yuma, Arizona, 

 no differences are noticeable. 



The previous Californian records of the species were from near the 

 Mohave River (type locaUty) and Indio. No Nevada records have 

 pre\'iously been published. 

 Trimerotropia oristata MiNeill. 



Two males and two females of this very pale colored species were 

 taken, August 10, at Las Vegas, Nevada, in typical desert surroundings. 



The specimens are quite uniform in coloration and size. 



The previous records of the species are from San Julio, Lower 

 California, and Salt Lake Valley, Utah. 



Trimerotropis albolineata (Bruner). 



Three females of this species were taken in the Arroyo Seco at 

 Pasadena, August 1, wliile a single male was secured at Beaumont, 

 Riverside County, Cahfornia, on July 30. Two females taken at 

 Pasadena, June 21 and July 1, by Fordyce Grinnell, Jr., have also been 

 examined. 



Some individuals are much more ferruginous than others, and the 

 pattern of the lateral lobes of the pronotum is fainter in one of the 

 Pasadena specimens than in the other individuals examined. 



This specias is now known from Los Angeles, Pasadena, Ontario, 

 San Bernardino County, Beaumont, Riverside County, and San Diego, 

 California, and southern Arizona. 



Trimerotropis caeruleipes Scudder. 



An interesting series of seventy-eight specimens of this species is 

 now before us, all but ten of which were taken by the authors. The 

 locaUties represented are as follows: Mt. Tamalpais, 2,100 to 2,500 

 feet elevation, August 23, five males and one female; Sentinel, Yose- 

 mite National Park, August 31, two males; Yosemite Valley, 4,000 to 

 5,400 feet, September 1, six males, six females; Grouse Creek, Yose- 

 mite National Park, September 1, two males, one female; Eight-Mile 

 Camp, Yosemite National Park, September 1, four males, three 

 females; Mariposa Grove, September 2, four males, four females; 

 Miami, September 3, three males, three females ; Mt. Lowe, 5,200 feet t(j 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 447 



summit, August 8, two males, three females; Echo Mountain, August 

 8, four males; Mt. Wilson, 5,000 feet, September 15, one male; Pasa- 

 dena, August 1, one male, June 23, one male and three females, col- 

 lected by F. Grinnell, Jr.; Santa Catalina Island, August 3 and 7, 

 three males, one female; Strawberry Vallej^ 5,000 feet, San Jacinto 

 Mountains, July 7-9, F. Grinnell, Jr., one male, two females. A single 

 male from Ormsby County, Nevada (Baker), and another of the same 

 sex from Cuyamaca Mountains, San Diego County, California, October 

 1, 1900 (G. W. Dunn), have also been exainined. 



In a recent paper^^ Mr. Caudell has shown that Trimerotropis tessel- 

 lata is not a vaUd species, and the material before us contains not only 

 additional evidence on this point, but also enough to relegate T. calig- 

 nosa to the synonymy as well, wliile even the recognition of the two 

 "forms" as varieties appears undesirable, the intermediates being 

 so numerous and graduated. 



Almost one-half of the specimens in hand are spread, so the character 

 of the fuscous band of the wing, the opacity of the disk and tlie amount 

 of infuscation of the apex can be readily observed in a number of 

 individuals. 



The dark form, called calignosa by McNeill, with blackish coloration, 

 the disk of the wing transparent faintly colored with greenish, and the 

 faintly fuhginous apex with the extreme tip slight!}^ infuscated, is 

 represented by individuals from ^It. Tamalpais, Miami, Mariposa 

 Grove, Mt. Lowe, Mt. Wilson and Pasadena. One female from Miami, 

 another from Grouse Creek and a male from Yosemite Valley have 

 the metazona of the pronotum ferruginous, strongly contrasted with 

 the blackish general coloration. 



The remaining specimens present a great complex of color tones, 

 the dark shades being umber and vandyke brown, while the light bars 

 are hoary, buffy and pale ferruginous. The \\\\\g band varies from 

 very weak to well marked, while the apex is hyaline or more or less 

 strongly fuliginous, .sometimes with the greater portion of its surface 

 infuscate. When the wing band is well defined the apex is usuall}' 

 hyahne, but this is not invariable. The shade of yellow of the disk of 

 the wing varies considerably, a few specimens, aside from the calignosa 

 type individuals, having it very weak. 



This species was found particularly common throughout the conifer 

 forests of the Yosemite region, in company with the slightly less plenti- 

 ful and less widely distributed Trimerotropis fallox. Hoth of these 



'3 Prnr. U. S. Nat. ^fus., XXXW . p. 7.5. 




448 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



species were fouiul in mimliers on the bare needle-strewn ground 

 under the conifers, especially in simin^ spots. It was easier to capture 

 T. cceruleipcs, but owing to tiieir numbers series of both species were 

 taken ^^^thout dilficulty. The previous Californian records of the 

 species are from Sissons, Marble Valley, El Dorado County, Los 

 .\ngeles and Cuyamaca. 



Trimerotropis bifasoiata Bruncr. 



A pair of this species were taken in dry brush and grass between 

 Rubio Can3-on and Altadena, at an elevation of about 1,500 feet, 

 August 8. 



This species was scarce, but two specimens only being seen. The 

 previous records are from Los Angeles and Tehama County, CaUfornia, 

 and Spokane, Washington. 



Trimerotropis koebelei (Bruner). 



This species was found to be common at Sentinel, Yosemite National 

 Park, August 31 and September 1, a series of eighteen males and three 

 females being taken, as well as a single female at another point in 

 the Yosemite ^'alley on the last mentioned date. 



Wlierever collecting was done about Sentinel this species was found 

 and taken without difficulty. 



The series exliibits a moderate amount of -s^ariation in size, and the 

 lateral lobes of the pronotum have the ventro-caudal margin either 

 with a distinct obtuse angulation or well rounded, the great majority 

 having this region very slightly angulate. The coloration varies 

 somewhat in depth and slightly so in pattern, although the last is 

 chiefly due to intensification or weakening. In but one specimen has 

 the anal area of the tegmina any marked maculations, and then but 

 a number of scattered spots. The black bands between the eyes, one 

 above the antennae, the other below the same, are often almost as 

 .distinct as in T. cincta. The dorsal one, however, is frequently absent, 

 but the ventral one is present more or less distinctly in all but one 

 male specimen, which latter \\'ith one of the females is remarkable 

 in ha\dng the pronotum and head ochraceous-yellow. The broad 

 white bare on the sides of the face are distinct in all but the two 

 indi\iduaLs mentioned above, although weak in a very dull colored 

 female. The black markings on the lateral lobes of the pronotum 

 are present in practically all the specimens, while the tegminal bars 

 are distinct in all the specimens, although rather weak in several, 

 the width of the bars varying considerably. The three femoral 

 bars — median, preapical and apical — are marked in the majority of 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 449 



the specimens. The wing band is uniform in the spread specimens, 

 but not strongly indicated or greatly contrasted. 



The previous records of the species are from Placer Comity, Duns- 

 muir. Siskiyou County, and San Francisco, California. 



Trimerotropis thalassioa Bruner. 



This interesting and peculiar species, concerning which practically 

 nothing has been published, is represented by a series of forty-nine 

 specimens from several different regions. Two males were taken, 

 August 23, on Mt. Tamalpais, one at 1,500, the other at 2,100 feet 

 elevation. On Mt. Lowe, August 8 and 24 and September 1, this 

 .species was taken at elevations ranging from 4,300 to 5,600 feet, a 

 series of twenty males and twelve females being secured. Two males 

 were taken August S, in Rubio Canyon, between 2.200 and 3,000 feet, 

 wiiile three of each se.\ were secured on Santa Catalina Island, August 3. 

 Two males and a female taken at 5,000 feet on Mt. Wilson, September 

 15. 1908, and four females from Arroyo Seco Canyon, San Gal)riel 

 Range, 3,000 feet elevation, Octol)er 8, taken by F(jrdyce Grinnell, Jr., 

 have also been examined. 



The favorite halntat of this species was found to be practically the 

 .same as that of Morsea californica. The insect wa.s found plentiful, 

 especially on Mt. Lowe among the manzanita bushes on the higher 

 .slopes. Owing to their lack of wariness and usual short flight speci- 

 mens were easily taken. Tliey were noted to alight almost invariably 

 upon the manzanita bushes. 



The Mt. Tamalpais specimens arc rjuite small wlien compared with 

 the Mt. Lowe individuals; the .Mt. Wilson, Arroyo Seco Canyon and 

 Rubio Canyon representatives also being appreciably smaller than the 

 Mt. Lowe series, but the difference is not as great as in tho Mt. Tamal- 

 pais specimens. The Santa Catalina Island specimens are also smaller 

 than the average Mt. Lowe individual. Average individuals from the 

 localities represented measure a.s follows: 



Length of Length of Lcii^th of 



IkmIv. tf>;iin'n. raiid.'il ffimir. 



mm. mm. nun. 



Mt. Tamalpai.s. 16.5 17.5 W 



Mt. Lowe (summit), .... 20.8 22 11.3 



(4.(MX) to 4,800 feet), 20.6 22.5 11.8 



Mt. Wilson (5,0(H) foot). ... 21.8 22 11.2 



ArrovoSe<'oCanvon(3.(KK)foot). . 21 22 <1 1 



Rubio Canyon (2.2(M) to :'..n()() feet). 10 . 5 21 10 8 



Santa Catalina Island, 17 2 IS 10 




450 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct. ; 



9 



mm, mm. mm. 



Mt. Tamalpais, 



Mt. Lowe (summit), .... 27.5 28 14 



(4.000 to 4,800 feet), .28 28.2 15.5 



Mt. Wils n (5.000 feet), ... 27 27.5 14.8 



Arrovo ISeco Can von (.3.000 feet), 



Rubio Canyon (2.200 to .3.000 feet), 



Santa Catalina Island, ... 26 26 14.5 



The Mt. Lowe series also exhibits considerable individual variation 

 in size in the specimens taken on the summit, the extremes of the males 

 measuring as follows: Length of body, 17-22 mm.; length of tegmen, 

 20-25 mm. ; length of caudal femur, 10.3-13 mm. In none of the other 

 lots of specimens do&s individual variation play such a decided part, 

 although the Arroyo Seco Canyon and Santa Catalina representatives 

 show it in a lesser degree. 



The basic color pattern has already been described by Bruner, but 

 the tegminal bars show almost endless variations in width, intensity 

 and solidarity, while the base color varies from pale ochraceous-buff 

 shades to dull blue-gray, frequentl}^ pale pinkish-red. The fuscous 

 band of the wing is also of variable intensity, being distinct and 

 continuous, although not sharpl}^ defined, or nearly lacking, indi- 

 cated only by a cloud at the stigma and another one jast beyond 

 the middle of the wing. The Santa Catalina series has the tegminal 

 bars broader and more contrasted than in any of the other specimens. 



The principal features of the species which strike one at first glance 

 are the deep head, the usually pale and often black-dotted caudal 

 margin of the pronotal disk, the peculiar granular character of the 

 coloration and the coloration of the caudal femora. 



The only previous record of this species is the original of Bruner, 

 who described it from Los Angeles, CaUfornia. Los Angeles County 

 was probably intended. 



Trimerotropis latifasciata Scudder, 



A single female of this species was taken at Las Vegas, August 10. 

 While somewhat larger than Scudder's measurements, this individual 

 agrees very well with his description. 



This species has been recorded from Wallula, Washington, Salt Lake 

 Valley and Lake Point, Utah, and from Nebraska, although specimens 

 from the last mentioned State may be T. lalicincta Saussure, if the 

 two fonns are considered separable. 




190«J.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 451 



Trimerotropis californica Bruner. 



Tliis interesting species is represented by a series of twenty-eight 

 specimens from the following locaUties: Pasadena, July 14, 1898, 

 F. Grinnell, Jr., two males; Pasadena, August 1, 1907, nine males, 

 seven females; Los Angeles River, August 24, one male, one female; 

 near Rubio Canyon, San Gabriel MountaiiLS, 1,000 to 1,600 feet, 

 August 8, four males, two females; Altadena, August 8, one male; 

 summit Cahon Pass, September 9, one male. There is a moderate 

 amount of variation in size and also a great deal in coloration, although 

 the latter is cliiefly in the depth of the pattern. Some individuals 

 have the tegminal bars poorly contrasted, but in all they are fairly 

 well defined, though made up of annuU in some individuals. There is 

 some individual variation in the width of the tegminal bars and in 

 the number and position of the quadrate annuli in the apical portion. 

 One of the Pasadena females is entirely suffused with ferruginous, 

 others are partially so, w'hile some are quite dull and othere hoary- 

 white. The Cahon Pass specimen is a typical individual, in a gra\ish 

 type of coloration seen in a pair from Claremont. The wing-band 

 varies to an appreciable extent in width and also somewhat in 

 position. 



The species was nowhere really plentiful and was found to be local 

 in distribution, restricted usually to dry places, particularly in the 

 Arroyo Seco at Pasadena. Although modorateh' vigorous it was 

 more difficult to find than to capture. 



This species has been recorded from San Luis \alley, Claremont, 

 Los Angoles and Ontario, California. 

 Trimerotropis itrenua M<N'ill. 



This Great Ba«!in and interior desert form is represented by four 

 males from tlie .Mohave desert and tlie region to the north, two taken 

 at Cima, August 12, on a plateau of tree yucca, one at Cottonwood, 

 September 9, and the other in the foothills of tlie P>ini Spring Moun- 

 tains, Lincoln County, Nevada, August 11. 



The Cima si)CciMicns are ins(;parable from Salt Lake City individuals, 

 but a tendency toward ath'fornica is noted in the Cottonwood speci- 

 men. The latter hiis the wing-ljand narrf)wcr than in typical individ- 

 uals, l)ut the general facies is more distinctly that of strenua than that 

 of californica, altiiough the former is probably notliing more than a 

 geographic race of the latter. 



In action tlie species was more vigorous than 7'. californica and is 

 apparently a ver\' much scarcer form. The specimens captured 

 at Cima were taken on the tree yucca plateau among brush. 




452 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



This species is now kncnvn from Salt Lake City and \'alloy and lioaver 

 Creek Hills. Utah, Tucson and San Bernardino Ranch, Arizona, and 

 Cinia and Cottonwood. California. 

 Trimerotropis inoonspioaa linuior. 



Among the tree yuccas at Cima seven males and two females of 

 this species were taken on August 12. At fii*st glance two species 

 appear to be represented in the series, one tj-pically having the teg- 

 minal bars more sharply defined and usually l)road, the wing-band 

 rather broad and hardly interrupted and the ventral sulcus of the 

 caudal femora blackish with two yellowish interrujitions; the other 

 type having the general coloration paler and more uniformly buffy 

 and hoary-wiiite, the tegminal bars narrower and frequently divided 

 into the component annuU, the wing-band narrow, reduced in length 

 and broadly interrupted, and the ventral sulcus of the caudal femora 

 yellowish white \\-ith a single blackish interruption. Wlien compared 

 with all the specimens in the series these apparently separate types 

 are found to have absolutely no structural characters to separate 

 them, and one specimen having the tegminal bars as in the first has the 

 wing-band nearer to that of the second described, while several other 

 specimens apparentl}'- belonging to the second type have a decided 

 blackish cloud at the base of the femoral sulcus. 



This species has previously been recorded from the Grand River 

 region of western Colorado and Bright Angel, Grand Canyon, Arizona. 



Trimerotropis vinculata Sfuildt-r. 



This widely distributed species is represented by a considerable 

 series of specimens distributed as follows: Mill Valley, August 23, 

 one male; Merced, August 30, one female; Tracy, Alameda County. 

 AugiLst 30, one female; Echo Mountain, August 8, two males; Rubio 

 Canyon, August 8, four males; Altadena, August 25, one female; 

 Pasadena, July 18, one male and two females, F. Grinnell, Jr. ; Pasa- 

 dena, August 1, four males, seven females; Alamitos Bay, August 31, 

 one female; Miramar, August 31, eight males, five femalas; Santa 

 Catalina Island, August 3, twenty-five males, six females; South 

 Fork, Santa Ana River, 6,200 feet, San Bernardino Mountains, July 

 2, J. Grinnell, one male; Fish Creek, 8,500 feet, San Bernardino 

 Mountains, June 27, J. Grinnell, one male; Indio, August 29, four 

 males; Cottonwood, SeptemVjer 9, one male; Cima, August 12, two 

 males, four females; North Range, Providence Mountains, August 

 12, one male, one female; foothills Bird Spring Mountains, Nevada, 

 August 11, one female; Arden, Lincoln County, Nevada, August 9, 

 one male; Las Vegas, Nevada, August 10, four males. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 453 



This series includes indi\'iduals representing a number of color 

 variations, both in pattern and tone, and also exhibiting great diversity 

 in size. The measurements of certain specimens are here given: 



Lengtli of Length of 



body. tegmen. 



Santa CataUna Island 21 mm. 22 mm. 



Miramar, 21 " 23.3 " 



Pasadena, 24.2 " 26.7 " 



Q 



Santa Catalina Island 28.5 " 29.5 " 



Miramar, 30.5 " 32.5 " 



Pasadena, 30 " 35 



The Santa CataUna series is as a whole di.stinctly smaller tiian any 

 of the other comparable lots, considerable individual variation being 

 noted, the measured specimens, however, being average ones. The 

 specimens from the coast of the adjacent mainland, i.e., Miramar 

 and Alamitos Bay, are but little larger than the CataUna individuals, 

 although there is also a considerable amount of individual difference, 

 wiiile the majority of the J'asadena representatives are considerably 

 larger than any othei"s in the series before us. 



As a rule the CataUna, Miramar and I'asadena individuals are duller 

 than specimens from the San Bernardino Mountains, Cima, Indio, 

 Providence and Bird Spring Mountains and Las \'egas. The .single 

 Arden specimen has the cephalic portion of the body and limbs well 

 sprinkled and partially wa.shed with pinkish-red. 

 Trimerotropia vinculata ''""n similis Scmldcr. 



Tills form has rightly been reduced in rank to a variation of vincu- 

 lata by Caudoll,'^ and from material before us it appears to have an 

 extensive range. 



Two males were taken on Santa Catalina Island, August 3, and a 

 single female at .Miramar, July 31 . Spe<-imens liave also been examined 

 from San Diego and Clarcmont, California, Albuquerque, New Mexico 

 (( )slar). aiul Ml Piuso, Texas (Viereck and Rehn). 

 Trimarotropia fallax Sam-iure. 



We have before us a series of thirty-two individuals of this peculiar 

 species. The following localities are represented: ^'osonlite \'ulley, 

 4,000 to 5,400 feet, SeptcmIxT 1, four males, four foiuales; Sentinel. 

 Yosemite National Park, September l,one male; Kiglit-Mile Camp, 

 Yosemite National Park, September 1, three females; (Irouse Creek, 



" Pror. U. S. Sal. .Mns . .\.\XIV, p. 70. 




454 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [Oct., 



Yosemite National Park, September 1. five males, f<nir females; 

 Mariposa Grove, September 2, two males, two females; Miami, Sep- 

 tember 3, one female; Ahwahnee, September 3, one male; South 

 Fork, Santa Ana River, San Bernardino Mountains, 6,200 to 6,700 feet, 

 June 28-July 24, 1906, J. (Irinnoll, tliree males, two females. 



We have mentioned the habitat and abundance of tliis species in 

 the notes on Trimerotropis cceruleipes. In actions this insect much 

 resembled specie.s of Circotettix and ajipears to be very close to that 

 genus. It makes a distinct clatter when in flight. 



Yosemite Valley specimens are uniformly more reddish than indi- 

 viduals from the other localities, although closely approached in some 

 Mariposa Grove specimens. A number of individuals have the prono- 

 tum reddish or dull ochraceous. The coloration of the tegmina is 

 rather uniform considering the size of the series, the annular dark 

 fuscous spots being regularly distributed, a tendency to form transverse 

 bars being noted in but two specimens, these from the San Bernardino 

 Mountains. There is some variation in the deptli of the yellow on 

 the disk of the ■v\dng, but the majority of the specimens are quite 

 uniform in this respect, sulphur yellow being the color found in the 

 greater number. The fuscous wing-band frequently has numerous 

 pale cellular spots distributed over it, the veins being darker than the 

 cells, but a number of individuals have the band nearly solid, and in 

 all it is well defined and decidedly indicated. Tlie apical portion 

 of the wing is nearly uniform infumate in the series from the Yosemite 

 and adjacent regions, while it is much paler and semi-hyaUne in several 

 San Bernardino Mountains specimens, although one individual from 

 the latter region is similar to the Yosemite majority. In some speci- 

 mens the pale cellular areas are also indicated in the apical region. 

 This specie.s has been recorded from "California" and Placer County, 

 Cahfornia. 



Trimerotropis oaeruleipennis Bmner. 



This interesting species was common on Santa CataUna Island, 

 where a series of forty-seven males and thirty-two femalas was taken 

 on August 3 and 7. Generally speaking it frequented the steeper 

 slopes of the island. These insects were not as active as some indi- 

 viduals of the species taken a few years ago at Salt Lake City. Two 

 males were also taken in the greasewood section at Cottonwood, 

 September 9, where they were the onlj' individuals of the species seen. 



When compared ^^^th two females from Salt Lake City, the Santa 

 CataMna Island specimens are seen to be decidedly smaller, while the 

 Cottonwood individuals are, allowing for the difference in sex, nearer 




1909. 



NATURAL SCTENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



455 



Average indi An duals measure 



the Salt Lake representatives in size, 

 as follows : 



Santa Catalina I.'^land, Cal. 

 Cottonwood, Cal.. . 

 Cottonwood, Cal., . 



Santa Catalina Island, Cal. 

 Salt Lake Citv. L'tah. . 



The Cottonwood individuals are similar to the Salt Lake specimens in 

 general coloration, while the Santa Catalina serias has, as a rule, the 

 tegminal markings duller, less contrasted and less sharply defined, 

 the whole coloration being somewhat more grizzled and less generally 

 contrasted, particularh' in the female, than is the case with Great 

 Basin and Mohave Desert specimeas. The color of the disk of the wing 

 varies considerabh' in depth, in fact from very pale greenish blue to 

 rather deep cerulean blue, wliile the fuscous band and spur is repre- 

 sented in some specimens by mere infuscations of the veins and in 

 others by a well-defined and rather deep cloud which falls btit little 

 short of the caudal margin. The caudal tibijc exhibit a con.^idorable 

 amount of variation in the depth of the coloration. 



Tliis species has been recorded from localities extending from 

 Washington to Montana and Wyoming south to southern California 

 and Arizona. The previous Califomian records are from Los Angeles, 

 Claremont, Santa Catalina Island and Sisson. 



Trimerotropis oyaneipennis Bnimr. 



Two niaios and one female of this species were taken on volcanic 

 foothills of bare black rock with hardly any vegetation near the North 

 Range of the Providence Mountains, August 12. 



These individuals measure as follows: 



In gonrral coloration the Providence Mountains si)erinioii.>^ rrt^omblp 

 individuals from Salt Lake City, although considerably smaller. 




456 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



The wing-hand is narrow in all the Californian sj)ociinons, while the 

 apex of the wing is hyaline. The color of the disk is similar to that 

 seen in specimens from the Huachuca Mountains, Arizona. 



The previous records of the species cover localities extending from 

 northern Utah to southern New Mexico and Arizoiui, this being the fn-st 

 record of the species from CaUfornia. The elevation at which the 

 Providence Mountains specimens were taken, 2,000 to 2,300 feet, 

 appeal's to be lower than any from which the species has previously 

 been recorded. The species was foiuid to be scarce. 



Trimerotropis pseudofasciata Seudder. 



A pair of specimens from Coronado Beach, where they were taken 

 in beach vegetation among sand dunes, August 15 and 16, are referred 

 to this species. These specimens have a distinct but rather weak 

 wing-band which reaches the caudal margin, but is hardl}^ continued 

 at all toward the anal angle. This band is narrowly severed imme- 

 diately caudad of the spur, the latter extending nearly half the distance 

 to the base, while the apex is hyaline except for the infuscation of 

 some of the veins. 



The measurements of the Coronado Beach specimens are as follows : 



The species has been recorded from localities extending from Wash- 

 ington to southern Cahfornia, east to Colorado. The specimens 

 taken were quite feeble, probably due to recent emergence. 

 Circotettix shastaniLS Bruner. 



Three males of this species were taken on bare, almost precipitous 

 walls of rock at 4,800 feet elevation in the li'osemite Valley, September 

 1. In such locations specimens were plentiful, keeping up a constant 

 loud clattering. Owing to their vigorous flight and the character of 

 the en\'ironment they were very difficult to capture. The specimens 

 are quite uniform in coloration, though exhibiting some little individ- 

 ual variation in size, agreeing fully in all respects with Bruner's and 

 Scudder's descriptions of the species. 



Originally described from Hazel Creek, Shasta County, Cahfornia, 

 the species has since been recorded by Scudder from Siskiyou, Oregon, 

 and Yosemite Valley. 



Circotettix splendidus n. sp. 



Types : cf and 9 ; Mt. Lowe, 5,300 to 5,600 feet, San Gabriel 




1909.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



457 



Mountains, Lf)s Angeles, California, August 8 (cJ) and September 1 

 (9), 1907. Hebard (d") and Poling (9), collectors. [Hebard Col- 

 lection.] 



Related to C. shastafius Bruner and rabuki Rehn and Hebard, 

 differing from the former in the broader tegmina, the free upper 

 branch of the first subjacent radial vein and in the more deeply sulcate 

 frontal costa, Avhile from the latter it diffei-s in the narrower inter- 

 space between the eyes, in the more distinct wing-band and decided 

 general color pattern and in the glaucous caudal tibise. 



Size large; form moderately robust; siu-face finely rugulose. Head 

 with the occiput distinctly arcuate, interocular space distinct!}- nar- 

 rower than the shortest diameter of the eye in both sexes, not quite 

 as high as the summits of the eyes; fastigium considcral^h' declivent. 

 slightly longer (d^) or no longer (9) than broad, divided longitu- 

 dinally into two parts by a marked medio-longitudinal carina which 

 extends caudad becoming obsolete on the occiput, each side of the 

 fastigium indei)endently concave in section, lateral margins moder- 

 ately elevated; lateral foveolse trigonal, elongate (cJ*) or subequi- 

 lateral (z). moderately impressed; frontal costa of moderate widtli. 



Fig. 1.3. — Cirrolettix aplendidua w. sp. Latrntl view of male typo, (x 2J.) 



slightly (cT) or considerably (?) nairowed doi-sad and \(Mitiad of 

 the ocellus, the margins very slighth' or considerably divergent von- 

 trad, arf)und the occlhis and ventrad of the same the sui'face is deeply 

 and rather broadly sulcute; accessor}' facial cariii:i' prominent; eyes 

 not very i)rominent, of moderate size, ovate subrcniform in outline, 

 in length slighth- (9) or distinctly (cy) longer than the infraorular 

 sulcus; antennjc somewhat longer than the head and pi-onotuin 

 together. Pronotum deplanate doi-sad, tiie caudal transvoi-se sulcus 

 rather deeply impressed, the mctazona fjuite broad; cephali(Mnargin 

 very slightly angulate, the catidal n)argin acute (d^) or rectangulate 

 (9), lateral shouldoi-s noticeable only on the metazona and, there 

 rather heavy and well rounded; metazona about twice the length of 




458 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 



the prozona, median carina distinct, more elevated on tlio i)r(iz()na 

 than on the metazona; lateral lobes distinctly deeper than long, 

 impressed mesad, ventro-caudal angle well rounded. Tegniina fom- 

 and one-half times as long as the greatest doi-sal length of the pronotum, 

 the greatest width, which is nearly median Avhen the tegmen is flat- 

 tened, being equal to the length of the pronotum, the distal third of 

 the tegmina extending caudad of the apex of the abdomen; costal 

 margin ^^^th the expansion broad and low, the distal fourth decidedly 

 arcuate, the apical portion narrowed and the apical margin oljlique- 

 truncate, the true apex well rounded. Wings moderately broad, the 

 width being about three-fifths of the lengtli, the shape hardly falcate; 

 costal margin arcuate in the distal fourth ; humeral field with the 

 apex well rounded acute-angulate; axillary field with the margin 



Fig. 14. — CircoteUix spletulidits n. sp. Wing. (X 5.) 



very shghtly arcuate, not at all lobate; posterior axillary vein with its 

 ramus paralleling the anterior ulnar vein very closely for a consider- 

 able distance or by variation coalescing with it mesad for the length 

 of a single cell; radiate veins considerably thickened. Caudal femora 

 somewhat slender, the ventral carina arcuate, sublamellate; caudal 

 tibia with nine to ten spines. 



General color cream strongly and conspicuously speckled with 

 numerous annular and cjuadrate spots of olive, becoming blackish 

 on portions of the male type. These maculations are distributed 

 roughly a.s follows : three traasverse poorly defined and broken bars 

 on the tegmina, the median narrower than the others; a central patch 

 on the disk of the prozf)na and cephalic portion of the metazona, 

 obsolete caudad; sprinkhngs on the occiput, gense and face; several 

 rather solid blotches on the lateral lobes of the prozona, a postocular 




1909.) NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 459" 



bar on the head and some niotthngs on the pleura; three more or less 

 distinct annuh on the lateral, internal and doi-sal faces of the caudal 

 femora, the genicular region of similar coloratic^^ \'entral sulcus 

 of the caudal femora blackish except for a distinct pn.le pregenicular 

 section; caudal tibia? glaucous blue (paler in the feniale than in the 

 male), blackish at the genicular extremity with a pale patellular spot 

 and a distinct pale pregenicular annulus. Eyes raw umber. Wings 

 with the disk citron yellow, apex hyaline, the longitudinal veins more 

 or less brownish, the cross veins a'.id often some of the longitudinal 

 veins cream, transveree band wlU indicated but A\ith rather indefinite 

 boundaries and very weak at the posterior anal vein, hardly following 

 the caudal margin. 



Measurements. 



d 



■7\ 



Length of body, ... 28 nun. 27 nun. 

 Length of pronotuni, 6. 2 " (i 5 ' 



Length of tegmen, . 2!) " '.M) 



Length of caudal fenuu', l.'i " 1") 



The types alone have l>een examined. 



The special collection by the junior author was taken toward noon 

 on the shady path leading to the top of Mt. J^owe. It did not seem 

 particularly vigorous and was captured before its flight and clattei- 

 could be noted. 



Anconia Integra Soudder. 



This desert-loving sj)ecies wa.s taken at three localities: Cotton- 

 wood, September 9, two males; Las Vegas, Nevada. August 10, 

 seven males, one female, one immature individual; Kelso, August 

 12, one male; Indio, July 29, seventeen males, four fenuilos. 



The serio; exhibits a considerable amount of individnal variation 

 in size, at least in the male sex, while the color variations are exten- 

 sive as usual in the species. Specimens with green or very pale green- 

 ish in their coloration comprise half (Las \'ega>:) or slightly less than 

 half (Indio) of the larger lots, while the greenish individuals from both 

 of the localities are more maculate than is the case with greenisji 

 individuals from Arizona. The Indio and ('ottonwo(«l indi\idnals are 

 as a rule nifire imiformly maculate than the Las \'egas specimens. 

 The decussate pronotal markings are present more or less distinctly 

 in more than half the series. The Kelso individual has the entire 

 body and |)roximal porlion of the tegmina chalky-white washed and 

 liiu'd witli pinkish-re<l. 




4G0 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct.. 



The raiice of the specie;? is now known to extend from Las Veg8,s, 

 .Nevada, and Death Valley, California, to Indio and Yuma, and from 

 the western porfc u of the Mohave Desert to at least the vicinity of 

 Tucson. ..; 



Heliastus californious (Thomas). 



A sin<ile female of this species taken at Pasadena, May 23, 1898, 

 by Fordyce Grinnell, Jr., has been examined. It is inseparable in 

 structure from San Diego individuals, but is decidedly different in 

 coloration, being hoary wiiitish ^^:th a little buff washing and marked 

 with umber, instead of being wholly deep wine-red with faint macu- 

 lations as in four individuals from the latter localit3\ The color adap- 

 tation of this species appears to be as great as or even greater than 

 in H. aridus. 

 Heliastus aridas (Bruncr). 



This species seems to make its appearance as the true deserts, both 

 Upper and Lower Sonoran, are reached, encroaching perhaps in less 

 desert-hke surroundings in the San Jacinto Mountains. 



After comparing the original measurements of H. californicus and 

 aridus and examining a large series of material, although unfortunately 

 containing few californicus, it appears that several of the best characters 

 for separating the two species have been overlooked. The pronotum 

 of H. californicus is considerably more expanded laterad, and the whole 

 width of the thorax at the insertion of the median hmbs is consider- 

 ably greater in proportion to the length than in aridus, while the 

 caudal femora are much slenderer and more elongate in aridus'. 



The length of the tegmina, a character previously used in a diagnostic 

 sense, appears to be quite reUable, but the other differences given 

 here are probably of greater importance. 



The following measurements of individuals of californicus and 

 aridus may prove of interest : 



Southern California, 



Type (from Thomas). 

 San Diego, Cal., 



//. californicus. 



Length of Length of 

 body. pronotum. 



mm. 



mm. 



9 



Length of 

 tegmen. 



Length of 

 caudal femur. 



mm. 



20.3 12.7 



20.5 5.4 20.6 12.6 



San Diego, Cal., 



15 



3.2 14.5 



;.7 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 461 



The series examined in this connection embraces the follo\\ins; 

 localities: Kenworthy, San Jacinto Mountains, 5,000 feet elevation. 

 June 9, F. Grinnell, one female; Dos Palmos, Santa Rosa Mountains, 

 3,500 feet, Ma}' 26 to June 1, F. Grinnell, five females; Kelso, August 

 12, one male; Cima. August 12, two males; X'orth Range. Providence 

 Mountains, August 12, four males, one female; foothills Bird Spring 

 Mountains, Cal., August 11, one female; same locality in Xevada. 

 three males, one female. 



The individuals from Kenworth}' and Dos Palmos are quite peculiar 

 in coloration, being shades of pale ochraceous gray with well-defined 

 brownish and blackisli maculations, occasionally involving nearly 

 the whole of the disk and doi-sal halves of the lateral lobes of the 

 pronotum. The other individuals are veiy similar in color to speci- 

 raeas from the desert regions of Arizona. Xew ^loxico and wostein 

 Texas. 



The previous Californian records of the species are from Panamint 

 X'alley and Claremont. This latter may refer tj) //. ((ilijornicus. 



Heliaitus minimas SciKl'lrr. 



This little known speciew is represented f)y material from near tl.e 

 foothills of the Bird Spring Mountains, both in California and Nevada, 

 a series of seventeen males, eight females and one immature speci- 

 men being taken on August 11. Three individuals of each sex were 

 also taken the same day in Xevada, immo<liately over the line from 

 Lyons, California. 



All the specimens examined are di.stinctly, some very considerably, 

 larger than the measurements given by Scudder of typical material 

 from Palm Springs, California, but in eveiy other respect the individual 




-lt'2 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [<)<"t-, 



before us are typical. Measurements of the extremes of the series 

 in hand are as follows: 



Specimens e.xamined by the senior author*' from 13ill Williams Fork, 

 Arizona, were also noted as being larger than the type measurements. 



The coloration varies chief!}' in the depth of the buffy base color, 

 some individuals having considerable reddish, chiefly on the proximal 

 portion of the tegmina and the disk of the metazona. The femoral 

 bare are decidedl}' marked in all the specimens. 



The specimens were all collected among dry grass growing in deep 

 sand near the border of a borax flat. Nowhere else was the species 

 to be found, but in this location it was ])lentiful. The species has a 

 fjuick short flight, and when resting on the sand often appears to rely 

 on its protective coloration. The situation in which the specimens 

 were taken was frightfully hot. 



The species is only known from Palm Springs, Colorado Desert. 

 California, Bill WilUams Fork, Arizona, and foothills of the Bird 

 Spring ^Mountains, near the California-Nevada boundary. 



Tytthotyle maculata fBruner). 



This peculiar locust was taken at three localities, and in every in- 

 stance it frequented volcanic rock fragments, flying long distances, 

 somewhat like .<^peci&s of the genus Schistocerca , alighting precipitatel}- 

 on the bare volcanic rocks, and almost invariably climbing upon one 

 of the liigher fragments. The insects were, however, easily approached 

 when due caution was used. 



The series comprises six males and two females, taken as follows: 

 Kelso, August 12, one male; North Range, Providence Mountains, 

 August 12, one male, one female; foothills Bird Spring Mountains, 

 August 11, four males, one female, specimens being taken in both 

 California and Nevada. 



In size the specimens exhibit but slight variation, but in color the 

 prevailing tone is pinkish-brown in some specimens and drab-gray 

 in others, the maculations being variable in intensity and pattern. 

 The caudal angle of the disk of the pronotum varies from rectangulate 



>» Trans. Kansas Acad. Sci., XIX, p. 224. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 463 



to distinctly acute-angulate. The bluish cast of the A\ings was very 

 noticeable in flio;ht. The previous records of the species are from 

 Xeedles, California, and Bill WiUiams Fork and Yuma, Arizona. 



Draootettiz californicus Bniner. 



Four specimens apparently belong:in,c to this species have been 

 examined in this connection. These are an adult maie from Echo 

 -Mountain, 2,700 to 3.500 feet, taken August S; an adult male froni 

 Hemet Peak, 7,065 feet, San Jacinto Mountains, taken June 4 by F. 

 Grinnell. Jr.; an adult female from the South Fork of the Santa Ana. 

 6,400 feet, San Bernardino -Mountains, taken July 20, 1906, liy J. 

 Grinnell, and an immature female taken on Mt. Lowe, 4,300 feet, on 

 August S. In addition to these specimens typical material of the 

 allied species. D. monstrosus and phdonius, from the collection of the 

 U. S. National Museum have been examined. 



Logically D. californicus appeai-s to be the intermediate connecting 

 the other types of the genus (plutotiius and monstrosus) and at j^resent 

 it is not clearly defined. The general form of the fastigium. shorter 

 proportionately in this than in the allied species, of the pronotal carina, 

 of the caudal femora, and the general appearance of the iiisect seem 

 to be the most useful points, the color of the internal face of the caudal 

 tibia and the form of the accessory carina' on the occiput being of 

 little or no use. The material l^efore us in addition to the above 

 listed specimens consists of the follo\\'ing: 



D. monstrosus, Los Angeles County, two males. San Diego, one 

 immature female. Claioinont. one female. "Cal.,'' one female. 



D. plutoniits, Pananiiiit \'alloy, one male, fnpr. Coso X'alley, one 

 female, type. 



D. californicus, C\areiu<m\, one male. Mountains near Clari'mont. 

 one female. San Bernardino County, two males. 



Of the series of eight specimens of californicus before us, one male 

 from San Bernardino County and the San Jicrnardino Mountains 

 female have the internal face of the caudal tibia- uniform purplish, in 

 one male from the San Jacinto Mountains there is a trace of rtnldish 

 and in the remainder the red is marked, at least distad. 



The j)revious records of the species are from Santa Cruz Mountains. 

 Clilrov and Xapa, California, and southern .\rizona. 



Sohistocerca vag;a iSiU'lilir). 



.\ single male from Altadena. .\ugust 8, and two females from 

 Pasadena, taken April 23 and June is. 1898, by F. (Jrinnell. Jr., are 

 in the series l)efore us. 




464 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Od., 



The species lias been recorded from a iniinhor of localities in soutliorn 

 California. 

 Sohistooeroa venusta Sciulder. 



At Indio, on July 20, this species was very plentiful in tall weeds 

 along; a watercoui-se, two males and three females l)ein<i- taken. A 

 female from an elevation of 3,000 feet in the San Gabriel Mountains, 

 taken October 9. 1908, by F, Grinnell. Jr., is also in hand. The pro- 

 notal stripe is narrower in the San Gabriel Mountains individual than 

 in the female from Indio, while the specimens from the latter locality, 

 and to a lesser degree in the San Gabriel individual, are much paler 

 than Hnachuca ^h)untains, Arizona, representatives. The species lias 

 previously been recorded from Palm Springs, Indio, Tulare and Gazelle, 

 California, while specimens from San Diego and Cuyamaca, San Diego 

 County, are also before us. 

 Schistocerca shoshone (Tliomas). 



Three males of this species were taken at Las \'egas, Nevada, August 

 10, where the species was found in clumps of green weeds near water. 

 The habits and habitat of tliis species seemed to be exactly the same 

 as those of Schistocerca venvsta, but we have never found the two at 

 the same place. 



The only pre\'ious records of the species from Nevada are either 

 indefinite or from the northern section of the State (Truckee Valley). 



Hesperotettiz festivus S( udder. 



At Indio this species was abundant on July 29, a series of eighteen 

 males and twenty-five females being taken. At Cottonwood, Sep- 

 tember 9, the species was found in small numbei-s on rabbit-weed, 

 two males and one female being taken, while a single female was secured 

 in the Arroyo Seco at Pasadena, August 1. At Las Vegas, Nevada, 

 August 10, a series of twelve males and seven females was secured. 



There is a striking amount of individual variation in size in lx)th 

 sexes of the Indio series, but particularly in the female. Of the same 

 series, six males and six females are decidedly brownish in color or 

 show a marked tendency in that direction. Both Cottonwood males 

 are decidedly brownish, wiiile the single female is green. All the gieen 

 individuals in the series have more or less distinct pinkish or pinkish- 

 red femoral annuh, the majority of the brown or brownish s])ecimens 

 having these obsolete. The green of the Las \'egas series is pale and 

 decidedly yellowish, all from that locality being uniformly colored. 

 The Cottonwood female has a veiy faint bluish cast to the entire 

 tegmina. The median whitish cephalic and pronotal line is bordered 

 laterad with blackish or dark green in a number of specimens. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 465 



The oiily previous Califoniiaii records of the species are from Los 

 Angeles County and Indio. 



foloplus tenaipennis Scudder. 



A single male of this species was taken at Summit House, September 

 3. The measurements — length of body 16 mm.; length of pronotum 

 3.5; lengtii of tegmen 13; length of caudal femur 8.3 — are shghtly 

 larger than those of the type as given by Scudder. 



The record of this species from Tucson, Phoenix and Yuma, Ari- 

 zona, made in a recent pubhcation by the authoi-s/' requires correction 

 when comparison of the Summit House specimen of typical tenui- 

 pennis is made with the Tucson, PhoBni.x and Yuma specimens, all 

 formerly placed under that name being richly and contrastingly colored 

 individuals of ^. arizonensis. 



The only pre\ious published records of this species are from Fort 

 Grant (type) and Bill WiUianxs Fork, Arizona. 

 iEoloplas arizonensis .S<Miil<ier. 



This species appeai-s to be the commonest one of the genus over a 

 considerable extent of countr)-. ranging from southeastern Arizona'^ 

 to soutiiern Nevada and the Colorado De^^ert. The California and 

 Nevada series before us consists of seventy-seven specimens distributed 

 as follows: Indio, July 29, twenty-seven males, twenty-six females; 

 Cima, August 12, two females; Las \'egas, Nevada, August 10. ten 

 males, twelve females. This species e.xiiibits a remarkable amovmt 

 of variation in size and considerable divei-sity in coloration; sometimes, 

 however, a series from one locality will Ije more uniform in this respect 

 than an equally large one from another region. The Las Vegas series, 

 while showing the instabiUty of the species in these two respects, 

 averages smaller and is more uniform than the Indio series, which 

 shows great divei-sity in both se.xes. Some have tlie body veiy i)ale 

 buffy without distinct markings save on the femora, while othei*s 

 have the stripes on the head and pronotum nidderately distinct, the 

 ground color vaiying greatly in depth. The femoral bar.- are dis- 

 tinct in all the sjjecimens, but the color of the caudal tibia' may be 

 purplish (solferino, rose purple, lilac or heliotrope purple), jiale glaucous, 

 a mixture of the two or some otic of several tones of either. 



The Las Vegius series has rose purple or a shade of it the {jrcdominat- 

 ing colf)r of the caudal tibia\ while the Indio scries has glaucous the 

 color in all the specimens. The twr) Cima specimens are quite small 



'• Proc. Acod. ym. Sri. Phila., 1908, p .3«M. 

 "See alwivo iindor .^. lenuipennis. 




466 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^^''t., 



and dark in color, the pattern l)eing strongly marked and the tibiae 

 purplisli in color. 



In the locations where this species Wivs captured it was found plenti- 

 ful among desert plants, excepting at Cinia wliere individuals were 

 scarce and were found in thick thorny hushes. 



The previously j)uhlished records of the species are from Fort Wliip- 

 |ile ixnd Vuma, Arizona, and the Mohave Desert. 



JEoIoplus oculatus Scudder. 



Tliis interesting species, previously known onl}' from Moliave, 

 Arizona, is represented in the series before us ])y six specimens, two 

 male,s and four females, taken at Cottonwood, Se])teml)er 9. The 

 prominent character of the eyes, mentioned by Scudder in his original 

 description of the species which was l)ased on a uniipie male, is by no 

 means as pronounced in the female as in the male sex, although when 

 compared with females of ."E. arizonensis the same sex of tiiis species 

 can be separated ^^■ith little didiculty. The species is quite as variable 

 in size as most of the others of the genus, but the specimens ])efore us 

 are quite coastant in coloration. 



These insects were fairly plentiful in a low white desert bush, which 

 they would not leave and were in consequence difficult to capture. 



Melanoplus herbaoeus Bnuier. 



At Indio, July 29, this species swarmed in an irrigated alfalfa field 

 and in high weeds, a series of twelve males and nine females being 

 taken. A pair of this species was also taken on vegetation on irri- 

 gated land at Las Vegas, Nevada, August 10. This is one of the most 

 active species of the genus Melanoplus. 



The Indio males are nearly equally divided between the typical 

 form and that called flavescens Ijy Scudder, while several specimens 

 are perfectly intermediate in character. All of the specimens are 

 in the green phase with more or less distinct j^ostocular bai-s or no 

 traces of the same, except one in the brown phase and several approach- 

 ing the same. 



The species has previously been recorded from Cahfornia at San 

 Diego and Indio, this constituting, however, the first Nevada record. 

 Melaaoplas devastator Siudiler. 



The collections made in California in 1907 contain an extensive 

 series of this ver^^ varial)le species, representing the following localities : 

 Mill Valley, Augast 23, nine males, nine females; Santa Cruz Moun- 

 taias, August 28, one male, one female; Merced, August 30, thirteen 

 males, ten females; Raymond, September 3, five males, thirteen 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 467 



females; Summit House, September 3, one male, three females; 

 Sentinel, August 31 and September 1, seventeen males, thirty-five 

 females; Pasadena (San Rafael Hills), August 1, ten males, fifteen 

 females ; Altadena, August 8 and 25, six males, two females; Miramar, 

 July 31, one female; Alaniitos Bay, July 31, nine males, seven females; 

 El Toro, August 20, four females; Coronado Beach. August 15, one 

 male, one female; Santa Catalina Island, August 3 and 7, three males. 



Tliis series exhibits such a great amount of variation in size and 

 color, and to an extent in minor structural characters, that we have 

 not attempted to place the specimens in the fom- forms of the species 

 recognized by Scudder, as it appeal's ])robable that more than four 

 types must be recognized if all the variants are distinguished by name. 

 The desirability of doing this seems questionable, at least at the present 

 time. 



The smallest specimens in the series are from Summit House, Pasa- 

 dena and Altadena, while the largest are from El Toro, Alamitos Bay, 

 Merced and Raymond. One male and foiu- females taken at Stanford 

 L'nivei-sity, October 17. 1003, l)y Fonlyce Orinnell, Jr., have also been 

 examined. 



MelanopluB aridaa (S<u(l<lir}. 



Three males and one female of this species were taken at Cima. 

 Ai;gust 12. 



When compared witii Florence, Arizona, individuals of both sexes, 

 the Cima specimens are found to agree very fully in all points except 

 the position of tiie tegmina, these being attingont or at least sub- 

 attingent in the Arizona specimens and considerably separated in 

 the California iiuHviduals. 



This is the fii-st record of the species from California. 



The specimens were taken in the tree yucca area where they were 

 scarce. They were found in a hilly location inhabiting the lowest 

 bushes. 



Malanoplus varicua s<iKUltT. 



l"(»ur males and three females from elevations iietwecn 4,000 and 

 o.WM) feet (»n .Mt. Lowe, taken Aug)ist S and 25, and a .single female 

 from the slopes of the San Rafael Hills at Pa.sa<lena. taken August 1, 

 are provisionally referre<l to this species, describe<l from specimens 

 from Tehacjiapi, Kern County. California, uni(|ue to this writing. 



The .Mt. Lowe specimens appear to differ from the original d(^crij)- 

 tion in having the furcula of the male hardly divergent, in ftlct parallel 

 in several of that sex. while the con-i appear to be slentlerer at the apex 




MiH PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [<>(t., 



than in tlio t\pes, although of essentially the same form. The inter- 

 space between tlie mcsosternal lobes appeal's to be broader and less 

 longitndinal in both sexes of the Los An<z;eles Comity material. It is 

 possible that a comparison of typical material witli the series in hand 

 may make necessary their separation. 



There is a considerable amount of indixithial ^■ariation in size, 

 which is not at all correlated with any particular elevation. The 

 coloration is somewhat deeper in several individuals than in the others, 

 but it is quite characteristic in all. Tiie species was not common. 

 Melanoplus sonomaensis Camkll. 



A sinirle pair of this species was taken in a garden at Santa Cruz, 

 CaUfornia. August 28. The only previous record of the species is 

 that of the types from Glenellen, Sonoma County, Cahfornia. 



In the garden the species was noticed to be extremely ])lentiful, 

 especially about the strawberry bed. 



Melanoplus gracilipes scndder. 



A single female from Miramar, July 31, is referred to this species, 

 which was previously known only from Los Angeles. The individual 

 was taken near the shore, along the border of a field of dry trampled 

 grass. Further extensive search failed to reveal any other specimens. 



Melanoplus pacificus (ScmUUr). 



An interesting series of twenty specimens of this species were col- 

 lected in the Yosemite National Park, Ijetween 4,000 and 6,000 feet 

 elevation, at the following locaUties: Yosemite Valley, 4,100 to 4,500 

 feet, September 1, two males, one female; Sentinel, August 31, two 

 males, six females; Eight-Mile Camp, September 1, one male, four 

 females; Grouse Creek, September 1, one male, one female. 



When compared with a pair of this species from Sissonsand Dunsmuir, 

 Siskiyou County, Calif(jrnia, the Yosemite males have the caudal 

 margins of the cerci more thickened and terminating rather abruptly 

 about two-tliirds the distance from the base, the apical third being 

 equally slender in males from both locahties. A single male in the 

 Academy collection from the Yosemite Valley, date and collector 

 unknown, fully agrees with the larger series in the above mentioned 

 character. 



The coloration shows Uttle variation except in the depth of the light 

 and dark colors, most of the palest individuals being from Sentinel. Tlie 

 postocular bar is strongly marked in all the males and a numl^er of 

 the females, being distinctly or hardly indicated in the remainder of 

 the latter sex. In several females the postocular bar is represented 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 469 



only by a very narrow and broken line l)<)rdering the ventral side of 

 the lateral carinae. In size there is coasiderable individual variation, 

 females from Eijtrht-Mile Camp alone showing five milhmetei-s differ- 

 ence in the length of the body. 



At Sentinel the specimens were all captured in a small area of herbs 

 beside the Merced River, while at Eight-Mile Camp and Grouse Creek 

 the specimens were taken in a forest of conifei-s. The iiLsects were 

 active but hea\y and ea:jily captured, although the series taken at 

 Sentinel was secured only after long and continued search. 



The pre\ious records of the species are from Dunsmuir, Edgewood, 

 Mt. Shasta and Sissons, Siskiyou County, Sha.sta County, Santa Cruz 

 Mountains, and mountains near Lake Tahoe. California. 



Melanoplus borckii (St&l). 



One male and two females of this sj)ecies were taken on Mt. Tanial- 

 pais, August 23, one female at 1,500 feet elevation, the other individuals 

 at 2,100 feet. The former specimen was found along the railroad 

 track, while the latter were on the ground among huckleberrv bushes. 

 The individual from 1,500 feet elevation has a most pecuhar coloration, 

 the general tone of the insect being brownish black with a rather broad 

 arcuate bar of coral-re<l crossing the doi-sai portion of the lateral lobes 

 of the pronotum. The ridge of the metathoracic episterna is yellow- 

 ish as in normally colored specimens, while the doi-sal face of the 

 caudal femora is ochraceous-rufous, blackish proximad and distad with 

 the median bar indicated on the internal half. 



The only exact localities from whicji this species has been recorded 

 are in tiie coast region of California l)Otween Sonoma County and 

 Los Angeles. 



MelanopluB tenaipennis Scmltler. 



four adult and one nearly mat\ne female taken between June 

 28 and July 20. lOOfi, at elevations of from G.200 to 0.400 feet, on tiie 

 South Fork of the Santa .\na River, in the San Bernardino Moimtains. 

 by Dr. Joseph Grinnell, are now Ijefore us. They agree quite well with 

 Scudder's descriptif)n of the species, which is very close to M. niis- 

 sionum. The coloration is fairly constant except for the ventral 

 extension on the prozonal lobes of the blackish i)ostocular line, as well 

 as the variable character of the lateral face of the caudal femora. 

 The latter may be nearly solid Ijlackish. yellowish-grcon darkened 

 distad and dorsad or faintly oblique fa'^ciate. Wry weak pregen- 

 if'ular annuli are present in one individual. \ 



The species has been recorded from Guadelupe and Los Angeles, 




470 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [^^'■••, 



and Monterey, l.os Angeles, San Bernardino and Kern Connties, 



California. 



Melanoplus missionum ■' ScmUUr. 



A series of seventeen sjieciniens of this species are in the collection 

 before us. all taken in a comparative small area. The localities repre- 

 sented are the foUowinj:;: Arroyo Seco at Pasadena, one male, Julv 

 20, F. Grinnell, Jr., one female, August 1 ; Arroyo Seco, San Gabriel 

 Mountains, elevation 3,000 feet, October 8, F. Grinnell, Jr.; Altadena, 

 August S, one male; Mt. Lowe, 4,000 to 5,600 feet, August 8, six 

 males, seven females. There is considerable individual variation 

 in size, specimens from tlie highest elevation on Mt. Lowe showing 

 the following extremes: 



d^ d^ 9 9 



mm. mm. mm. mm. 



Length of body, L5.8 19 25 26.5 



Length of pronotum, ... 4.2 5 5.2 6 



Length of tegmen, 3.2 3.8 3.5 3.8 



Length of caudal femur, . ... 10.2 11.8 13 '14 



The exposed portion of the tegmina varies considerably in length, 

 in one case hardly more than half the average exposed area being 

 visible. The general coloration shows considerable variation, ranging 

 from quite uniform greenish yellow to dull oUve and ochraceous-buff 

 and vandyke-brown. The last mentioned type predominates, the 

 females, however, being much duller than the males. The yellow 

 type is represented by one female from 3,000 feet elevation in the 

 Arroyo Seco, while the single olive specimen is from the Arroyo Seco 

 at Pasadena. The yellowish postocular line is distinct in the majority 

 of the specimens and faintly indicated in the reinainder. The femoral 

 bars are distinct in all the males and fainth' indicated in all the females 

 e.xcept the greenish-yellow specimen, which also has the caudal tibiae 

 yelhnvish externall}' and glaucous internally instead of nearly uniform 

 glaucous as in the others. A more or less distinct yellowish pregen- 

 icular annulus is present in the majority of the series. 



Specimens were never taken in numbers, but single individuals 

 were occasionally noticed. 



The only previous record of the species is from I^os Angeles. This 

 reference probably should stand as Los Angeles County. 

 Melanoplns fascipes Souddcr. 



Two females of this species were taken in the San Gabriel Range 



** The senior author'.s (Edaleonotus truncalus (Ent. News, XVIII, p. 353) from 

 the San Gabriel range noar Claroinont, California, is a .synonym of thLs specie.s. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 471 



on August 8, one at an elevation of 4,400 feet on Mt. Lowe, the other 

 in Rubio Canyon, between 2,200 and 3.000 feet. 



The specimen.-?, while quite similar in coloration except for a rufous 

 tone to the hghter color of the large individual, show considerable 

 individual variation in size, the measurements being as follows: 



The previ(Kis records of this species are from localities along the 

 coast and coastal valleys of southern California, from ])etween Luis 

 Obispo and San Simeon Bay south to San Diego Countv and at least 

 as far east as Claremont. The species has also been recorded from 

 San Bernardino County, but from which portion of that quite diveree 

 area is not mentioned. 



In habitat and actions these specimens greatly resembled Mdann- 

 pliis missionum. 

 Melanoplas ablatas Scudder. 



A single male of this species was taken at 101 Portal, .\ugust 30. 

 at an elevation of 2,050 feet on a steep mountain sitle, among dry 

 leaves, under manzanita and other bushes. The specimen was taken 

 at daybreak, and no other Orthoptera were noted at that time. 



The antennip r)f this individual are (juite short, not quite four milli- 

 meters long and slightly less than half the length of the caudal fennir, 

 the tips being perfect and imbroken. In the type measurements 

 Scudder gives the length of these ajjpondages as six ami ono-lialf 

 millimetei's or more than two-thirds the femoral length. In every 

 other character the specimen in hand is jierfectly typical. The tvjie 

 locality is Wawona, .Mariposa County. California. 

 Melanoplai nanns ScikMit. 



One male and two females of this species, taken at Mill \ alley, 

 August 23. are in the series. They are closely related to the following 

 species and re(|uire considerable stu<ly for their proper separation. 

 The shorter an<l apically broa<ier cerci and more divergent furcula are 

 of the greatest comparative value. 



The species was found on a dr>' gra.^sy hillside. 



The original and only previously pul)Iislie<l records <if the species 

 are frf)m Mill \'allev, .'^an l"rancis(o, Berkeley and Baden. San* Mateo 

 Coimtv. California. 




472 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 



Melanoplus ligneolus ScikIiUt. 



Two milled and a tsingle fonuile of thi.s species were taken at 2,100 

 feet elevation on Mt. Tamalpais, among low bushes. 



Both this and the preceding species were extremely scarce. 



The previous records are from Berkeley and Benicia, California. 



Melanoplus oinereus Soiuldor. 



An interasting series of thirty-three specimens of this species from 

 the following localitie,s is contained in the collection: Sentinel, August 

 31, one male; Pasadena, August 1, nine males; Altadena, August 8, 

 one male, one female; Rubio Canyon, 2,200 to 3,000 feet, August 8, 

 three males; Alamitos Bay, July 31, four males, one female; Coronado 

 and South Coronado Beach, August 16, five males, one female; Tia 

 Juana. August 16, three males, one female; Santa Catalina Island, 

 August 7, two males, one female. 



The series exhibits a surprising amount of variation in size, this 

 being to a great extent individual, but in a measure apparently due to 

 geographic factoi-s. Average males from the localities represented 

 measure as follows: 



Sentinel, 



l^asadena, , 



Altadena, 



Rubio Canyon, 



Alamitos Bay. 



Coronado Beach, 



Tia Juana, .... 



Santa CataUna Island, 



The cerci and furcula show a number of modifications of the essential 

 type of the species, but none of the specimens are typical of the closely 

 related M. cijanipes, although this is approached by certain individuals. 

 The coloration varies considerably, the Sentinel, Pasadena, Altadena 

 and Rubio Canyon series being darker than the Coronado Beach and 

 Tia Juana specimens, while the Alamitos Bay and Santa Catalina 

 Island individuals are nearl}- intermediate, although nearer the dark 

 type. The Tia Juana and Coronado Beach females are very pale, 

 as is also the case with f)ne male from the latter locality. 



This is e.ssentially a species of the drier sections, and althougli a 

 common species it was never found to be gregarious. 



Melanoplus oomplanatipes Scudder. 



Three males and one female from Cottonw(jod, September 9, and 




1909.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



473 



one female from the foothills of the Bird Spring Mountains, Nevada, 

 August 1 1 , are iaseparable from this species, previousl}^ known only from 

 Cape San Lucas, Lower CaUfornia, and Sonora, Mexico, 



The appendages of the males are identical 'with Scudder's figure, 

 but it would seem as if the t3'pical material was shrunken from immer- 

 sion in spirits, a.s Scudder states the figured male "is .... . some- 

 what distorted by preservation in spirits," and the same medium 

 has apparently rendered some points of the coloration obscure. The 

 dimensions of a Cottonwood pair and the Nevada female are as follows : 



Cottonwood, d 21 



Cottonwood, ? 25.5 



Foothills Bird Spring Mountains, 9 



The postocular bar is faint in one specimen and distinctly marked 

 in the others, while the entire dorsum, except for a pair of narrow 

 lateral more or less distinct yello'W'ish carinal Unes, is sprinkled and 

 clouded ^vith umber. The caudal femora bear traces of traasverse 

 bars, in fact quite distinct ones dorsad, while the ventral and internal 

 faces of the same portioas are orange or orange-red. The caudal 

 tibise are glaucoas, varying from very pale to quite deep in shade. 



This was one of the extremely vigorous and scarcer desert species. 

 In habits it closely resembled Mdanoplus bowditchii, being quite 

 as active and shy. 



Melanoplus marginatus ('>nn pauper s<'U(Mcr. 



At Ahwahncc, September 3, this interesting iasect was found com- 

 mon in a rank growth of high tarweed, a series of six males and seven 

 females being taken. 



Coasidcrablc individual variation in .^izo is cxhibitcil l'\- tlirse .'Speci- 

 mens, the extremes being as follows: 



& 



& 



In general coloration some specimens are distinctly darker tlian 

 others, but the pattern is essentially the same in all the series, 

 31 




474 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



The species has i)reviously been recorded from Natonia Vineyard, 

 Folsom, Atwater, Fort Tejon, Chico, Cliiadehipe and southern Cah- 

 fornia. 

 Melanoplus femoratus (Kunneistor). 



This species was found in numbers at both Sentinel, August 31 and 

 September 1, and Mariposa Grove, September 2, ten males and nine 

 females being taken at the former locahty and seven males and two 

 females at the latter. 



The specimens average decidedly smaller than individuals from the 

 eastern United States, while the amount of contrast of the yellow 

 postocular bars and of the ventral half of the caudal femora is cpiite 

 variable, several of the males being very strikingly colored. 



The pre\doiis CaUfornian records of the species were from Mt. 

 Shasta district and Los Angeles. This latter record is probably 

 meant to cover the entire county, a.s it is hardly possible that this 

 species could be found in the vicinity of Los Angeles. 



TETTIGONID^. 

 Hormilia elegans scuddcr. 



Three adult males and four immature individuals of this species 

 were taken from greasewood at Cottonwood, September 9. The 

 specimens were found only by long and constant search. They flew 

 from one greasewood bush to another, but were easily approached 

 and captured, apparently relying on their coloration for protection. 

 These individuals possess strongly contrasted maculations, the base 

 green being deep in two males, while the tliird has the dorsal section 

 of the tegmina blackish-brown, the white spots, which are decided, 

 distinctly outUned and regularly placed, being washed with pale 

 greenish in one individual. The darker portions of the hmbs are 

 oUve-brown in the male with blackish-brown on the tegmina. In 

 size the Cottonwood adults are about equal to specimens from Florence, 

 Arizona. 



This is the fii-st record of the species from California. 



Sondderia mexicana (Saussure). 



Three CaUfomia males of this species have been examined, one from 

 Avalon, Santa Catalina Island, taken August 7 by Hebard, another 

 from Pa.sadena, taken July 28, 1899, by F. Grinnell, Jr., and a third 

 from Santa Monica, taken August 1, 1906, by the same collector. 



The previous Californian records of the species were from Los 

 Angeles, Coronado and Claremont. The single specimen from Avalon 



I 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 475 



was found in the afternoon, resting on a frond of a palm growing in a 



garden. 



Soudderia furcata Bruiiner. 



A single male of this species was taken at Alnvahnee, September 3, 

 This is the most southern record for Cahfornia, The insect was taken 

 in a rank gro\\'th of tanveed. 

 Conocephalus '^ spinosas (Moi^c). 



Three males and one female of this species were taken on salt 

 marsh vegetation at South Coronado Beach. August 16. In life the 

 specimens were deep green in color. The species was descrilied from 

 Coronado, and has not been reported from elsewhere. At the time 

 these specimens were taken adults were extremely scarce. 



Conocephalus occidentalis (Morse). 



In a meadow of deep rank grass at Sentinel, Yosemite Park, August 

 31, five males and five females of this species were taken. At Mari- 

 posa Grove, September 2, three males and seven females were also 

 taken, while at Mill ^'alIey, August 23, two females were secured in a 

 dr>' ditch. The females exhibit considerable divei-sity in the length 

 of the ovipositor, the extremes, however, being well within those given 

 by Morse, while the wings do not quite reach the apex of the abdomen 

 in any of the males and range from one-half to three-fourths the length 

 of the abdomen in the females. 



One of the specimens taken at Mill \alley was caught ovip<Ksiting 

 in a grass straw. 



Conocephalus vicinus f Morse). 



Two males of this species were taken among gra-sscs on sand duucd 

 directly back of the ocean beach at Alamitos Bay, July 31. 

 Nedaba oonvexa randell. 



I'our males of this form were taken at 2,100 feet elevation on Mt. 

 Tamal[)ais, on ground covered with leaves and bark. They were very 

 quiet and when found could be picked up ea-^ily. One specimen is 

 slightly smaller than the original mcju^urements, the other three, 

 however, being almost identical with the type male in <limensions. 



The color form of the type male, viz., 'Might ycllowi.sh-brown," is 

 not represented in the four specimens before us, two (tf the^e being 

 re<l-brown and the others umber-brown. The abd(»minul pattern 

 found in X. airinata is marked in the two rcd-ltrown males, jiardly 



•• For remarks on the use of this name in place of Xiphidium of authors see 

 Rehn, Proc. Acad. Sat. Sri. Philu., 19()7. p .TS9. 




47G 



PROCEEDIXGS OK TUE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 



indicated in one of tiie brown males and no traces are present in the 

 otlier. The hiteral lobes of the pronotuni arc blackish-brown in all 

 the specimens, bnt this is more extensive cephalo-veiitrad in t-onie 

 than in otheiv. 



After comparison of the j^enitalia of this form with the fignres of 

 that of X. carinata we are forced to the conclusion that specific rank 

 must be accorded conrcxa. 



The type localities were ^It. Shasta and Napa County, California. 



Aglaothoraz sierranas ». si>. 



Types: o' and 9 : Yosemite Valley, 4,500 feet (o) and Grouse 

 Creek. G.OOO feet ( 9 ), Yosemite National Park, California. September 

 1. 1907. Collected by ]\Iorgan Hebard. [Hebard Collection.] 



Related to A. diabolicus (Scudder) from Monte Diablo, California, but 

 difTering in the somewhat shorter caudal femora, which are much less 

 inflated proximad. and in the more decidedly and sharply dentate 

 apex of the ovipositor. No doubt other differences exist in the male 

 sex. but this cannot be determined \mtil the male of A. diahoUcus is 

 known. 



Fig. 15. — Agloothorax sicrramis n. sp. Lateral view of male type. (X 2.) 



Size'moderately large; form robust. Head well seated in the thorax, 

 the interocular space very broad and mesad with a pair of more or 

 less distinct converging rugiP which unite with the lateral margins 

 of the fastigium; fastigium about equal to the basal antennal joint 

 in width, narrowing ventrad, with a distinct very narrow sulcus on 

 the dorsal surface terminating abruptly cephalad; eyes small, ovoid, 

 quite prominent for their size; antenna) exceeding (c?) or at least as 

 long as ( 9 ) the body. Pronotum with the greatest width of the disk 

 contained about one and one-half times in the length; cephalic margin 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PllILADELrHIA. 477 



slightly arcuate emarginate (o) or subtruncate (9), cavulal margin 

 strongly arcuate; lateral carina' hardh* marked cephalad. q\iite 

 strong mesad and caudad, arcuate divergent then rounding to the 

 caudal margin, the arcuation being more pronounced in the male than 

 in the female, the greatest width of the metazona over twice the 

 cephalic width of the same portion; median carina precurrent, weak; 

 caudal portion of the metazona shallowly rugoso-punctate; prozona 

 but Uttle more than a fourth the length of the metazona, transvei-se 

 sulcus shallow but distinct, not severing the median carina; lateral 

 lobes with the greatest dorsal length half again as much as the depth, 

 the caudal margin hardly (c?) or sHghtly (?) sinuate. Tegmina of 

 the male hardly projecting caudad of the pronotum, inflated. Abdo- 

 men considerably inflated proximad, tapering caudad, the segments 

 moderately keeled dorsad; terminal dorsal abdominal segment of 

 the male Inroad at the base, produced, somewhat depressed distad, 

 the lateral margins subparallel caudad of the cereal emargi nations, 

 the distal margin sinuato-truncate; cerci robust and subequal jirox- 

 imad and mesad. tapering distad, the robust portion subs('al)r()us, 

 the entire length about half that of the terminal doi-sal abdominal 

 segment; infracercal plates projecting caudad of the terminal doi-sal 

 abdominal segment Ijy nearl}' half tiie length of the latter, the lateral 

 margins rounding to the apex which is at the internal margin; sub- 

 genital plate large, compressed, deep, projecting beyond the infracercal 

 l)lates less than the length of the latter, the apical .section carinate 

 ventrad and with the apical margin arcuate on eadi side of the \'- 



1 ig. IG. li«. 17. Fig. IS. Kin. 10. 



Fig. 16. — Aglaothornx niermniis ii. .s|). Dor-.il view of pronodmi of male type. 



(X 2.) 

 Fig. 17. — .\glanlhorax sierrnnuH ii. sp. Dorsal view of pronotum of fnnalc tvpo. 



fX2). . . 



Fig. IS. — Afjlnothoraz sieminuH n. s\i. ()\i|X).sitor. (X 2.) 



Fig 19. — Aglnothorax nirrranun ii. .'<p. Dorsal view of apc-\ of male alKli»iiicii. 

 " (X 3.) 



shape which the plato there assumes; cen-i nf the icniale MUiihir in 

 those of the male; supra-anal plate strongly arcuate; ovipositor 

 about two-thirds the length of tiic caudal femora, considerably arcuate, 

 tapering, the apif-al portion of rach margin arnio<l with moderately 




47S PROCEEDINGS OF THR ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



sharp erect teeth, tliose of the dorsal margin numbering about four- 

 teen and those of the ventral margin about half that lumil^er; sub- 

 genital plate of the female moderately proiluced, subtrigonal, strongly 

 arcuate in section, the apical margin obtuse. I'rosternum armed 

 with a pair of moderately long s])ines. Cephalic femora about two- 

 thirds the doi-sal length of the i)ronotum, moderately robust, the dor- 

 sal face armed ^^ith two spines ceplialad and three to four caudad, 

 the ventral margins imarmed, the cephalic genicular lobe with a single 

 spine, the caudal unarmed; cephalic tibia) very slightly longer than 

 the femora, the dorsal face with two spinas, one tympanal, the other 

 ajjical, the ventral margins each with seven spines. Median femora 

 slightly longer than the cephalic femora, the doreal face armed Avith 

 six spines in the male, one being apical, a smaller number present 

 in the female, ventral margins unarmed; median tibia^ slightly longer 

 than the femora, armed doi-sad with three spines on the cephalic margin 

 and five on the caudal, ventral margins each armed with eight spines. 

 Caudal femora nearly two and one-half times the length of the prono- 

 tum, quite robust proximad, the distal tliird slender and subequal, 

 the doi-sal face of the inflated proximal section with numerous fine de- 

 pressed spines, ventral margins unarmed; caudal tibire shghtly shorter 

 than the femora; free plantula present in the caudal tarsi. 



General colors of the male buff dorsad, clay color laterad and ventrad, 

 of the female dull chocolate-brown. The face, greater portion of the 

 lateral lobes of the pronotum, abdominal bars and annuli and clouds 

 on the limbs sliining seal-brown. The two proximal joints of the anten- 

 nae are blackish beneath, while the remainder of the antenna are 

 regularly annulate with buff and seal-brown, the buff annuli distinctly 

 narrower than the seal-brown ones, the latter regularly increasing 

 in length distad. Eyes hazel-brown. A bar on the ventro-caudal 

 portion of the lateral lobes of the pronotum of the hghter general 

 color of the respective sexes, while the caudal margin of the disk of 

 the pronotum is narrowly checked with the darker color. The main 

 abdominal pattern consists of lateral bars becoming evanescent 

 laterad, broad and parallel on the three proximal exposed segments, 

 on the next two segments arching laterad and returning to nearly the 

 same degree of separation distad as proximad, the bars at the expan- 

 sion and caudad of the same much weaker than cephalad. Male 

 genitalia chestnut; ovipositor of the general colors mottled. Caudal 

 femora marbled on the doi-sal aspect, a conspicuous medio-longitudinal 

 line, more or less undulate in character, of seal-brown present on the 

 lateral face and extending the length of the inflated portion. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 479 



Measurements. 



6" 9 



Length of body, 23 mm. 25.5 mm. 



Length of pronotmn 8.5" 8.5" 



Greata^t doi-sal ^^^dth of pronotum, . . 5.5 " 6 " 



Length of caudal femur, 20.5 " 21 " 



Greate.st width of caudal femur, ... 4 " . 4.6 " 



Length of o\'ipo.'=;itor, 15.5 " 



A paratypic male from Yo.semite Valley antl another of the same 

 sex from Wawona, taken September 1, have been examined in addition 

 to the types. The paratypic male i.s slightly larger than the type male 

 and has the pale general color darker, more \'inaceous-cinnamon, 

 while the Wawona specimen is similar to the type in size and is almost 

 uniform pale cinnamon in color, the seal-l)rown limited to the femoral 

 line and scattered clouds, spots and points, the pronotum being prac- 

 tically uniform except for the beading on the caudal margins. Tlie 

 antenna; are similar in pattern in all the specimens. 



The two specimeiLS taken in the Yosemite Valley were captured 

 during the morning, hiding in the cracks in the bark of some tall fir 

 trees. They were cpiiescent, apparently resting for the day. The 

 individual taken at Grouse Creek was found on a steep hillside, 

 among a very few low green plants growing in a conifer forest. The 

 insect jumped about actively, but only for short di.stanccs. The 

 Wawona rej)r&sentative was taken from the stem of a small shrub, 

 where it was stridulating at dusk. Other specimens were lieard 

 in tiie forest, usually in low trees. The stridulation is remarkably 

 faint for so large an insect, the sound produced Ijcing a weak zip- 

 zip-zeeceee repeated several times, roruinding one strongly of the 

 stridulation f>f Orchrlimum minor. , 



Cyrtophyllicus chlorum Ilcbnnl.-" 



The type of this recently described genus and sjiecies, taken at VA 

 Portal, August 30, is contained in tjic collortion. 



The original a.^sociation of the goniis with Zacjiclnplrrd raudoil 

 is correct, although the luunbcr of apical spui-s on the fMn<lal tibiip 

 was there stated in a way lial)le to confuse, the innnbor of one side 

 of the tibirr or of pail's being given and not the total for the hinb. 

 Auoplodusa arizonensis (Rehn). 



On August 11, wliile crossing the volcanic flats overgrown with 

 greasevvood at the foot of the Bird SpririL' M..iu)f,Miiis <.f the McCol- 



»Ent. News, XIX. p. 156. figs. 1-3. 




480 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



lough range, on the Nevada side of the California boundary line, a 

 specimen of this very rare species was flushed from a grcasewood 

 bush. It flew up in a wa}- reminding one of the swift flight of a Scltisto- 

 cerca and did not aUght for at least two hundred yards, when it 

 perched on the top of another greasewood bush. The specimen was 

 captured and proved to be the first known female of the genus. Wlien 

 compared with the male type of the species the Nevada s})ecimen 

 does not appear to be separable, such differences as do exist, as laiger 

 size and slightly different proportionate width of the fastigium, Ijcing 

 easily attributable to sexual differences. The ovipositor curves 

 distinctly but not at all decidedly ventrad, the apex being acute and 

 the margias not spined. The measurements are as follows: 



Length of body (exclusive of ovipositor), 25.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 7.2 " 



Width of pronotum (caudad) 4.5 " 



Length of tegmen 47 " 



Greatest width of tegmen, 7 " 



Length of caudal femur, 28 " 



Length of ovipositor, 25.8 " 



The coloration is much paler than in the type, although the pattei'n 

 is essentially the same, all the paler spots and markings on the prono- 

 tum and tegmina being ivory white and the remainder of the surface 

 pale yellowish buff, becoming yellowish on the distal portions of the 

 femora and on the tibiae, the darker portions of the tegmina being 

 brownish-clay color becoming paler distad. The line pattern on the 

 pronotum is essentially the same as and more distinct than in the type, 

 while no green is present on the specimen. 



The type locality and only previously published record of the species 

 is Florence, Arizona. 



Eremopedes gracilis (Rchn). 



An adult pair of this form was taken at Cottonwood, September 9, 

 frequenting low growth, where they w-ere much protected by their 

 coloration. The tegmina of the male, projecting two and one-half 

 milUmeters beyond the pronotum, are consideraVjly convex with the 

 internal margin of the apex oblicjuely arcuate, the external margin 

 straight with the apex rounded subtruncate, the tympanum being 

 almost entirely hidden. The ovipositor of the female is slightly 

 shorter than the length of the caudal femora, while the tegmina are 

 minute pads, well hidden under the pronotum. 



The terminal dorsad abdominal segment of the male is deeply and 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 481 



acutely fissate mesad with a pair of acute finger-like lobes bordering 

 the same. The supra-anal plate, which is visible ventrad of the 

 incision of the abdominal segment, is acute-angulate. The cerci 

 are slender, tapering, nearly straight, the apical portion substyli- 

 form, the apex rather blunted, the usual tooth on the internal margin 

 is hidden by the supra-anal plate when the cerci are together. The 

 subgenital plate has a small median rectangulate emargination, the 

 stylas being extremely short. 



The measurements of the two specimens are as follows: 



& 9 



Length of body 22 mm. 21 mm. 



Length of pronotum 5.5 " 5 



Greatest caudal width of i)r()ii()tun I. 3.5 " 3.8 " 



Length of exposed tegmen 2.5 " 



Length of caudal femur, 18.5 " 20.5 " 



Length of ovipositor 19.5 " 



It is seldom that one can take exception to any portion of the excel- 

 lent work of Caudell in his study of the North American Decticinu', 

 but to his assignment of this name to the synonym)-' we are compelled 

 to disagree. No actual comparison was made, as far as we can learn, 

 of Scudder's type of E. albojascinUi and that of gracilis, and sj)ccimens 

 examined at different times may be considered the same when real 

 differences exist. The characters given by Rehn for separating 

 gracilis from albojasciata hold true in the material before us. and as 

 far a.s memory serves the type of gracilis wa.s similar to the one in 

 hand, which is undoubtedly adult, altiiough C'aiidell a.^sumed it to be 

 inmiature. The bai-s on the head, pronf)tum and alxlomen are broader 

 in this form than in a number of New Mexican immature individuals 

 of albofasciata, thesize is less than that of Scutlder's type and the caudal 

 femora appear to be slenderer and are considerably longer in i)roportion 

 to the ovipositor. The inunature sperimen from I'linnix, .\ri/.oiia, 

 which Catulell says is similar to the type of gracilis, is prol)ably the same 

 as the Cottonwood sj)ecimens, as it is quite probable that one form is 

 limited to the Eastern Desert or Chihuahuan Tract aud the other to 

 the Western Desert or Sonoran Tract. 



The type locality of E. gracilis is liill William.- l'(trk, Arizona. 



IdiostatuB aeqaalis S<'iiil(1)'r. 



A single female of this species was taken in the Arroyo Seco at 

 Pasadena, August 1, while two males, one adult and the other not 



n Prof. V. S. Naf. Mus.. XXXIT. p. 339. 




4S2 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [(^ct., 



quite mature, taken at 6,000 to 6,500 feet elevation in Strawberry 



\'alley. San Jacinto Mountains, July 17, by F. (Jriniiell, Jr., have also 



been examined. The Arroyo Seco specimen \\a.s beaten from low 



bushes. 



Clinoplenra minuta CaiuU'll. 



At Haymoiul, on September '.^, tiiis species was found swarming, 

 invariably on the ground, especially in a stubble field. The insects 

 jumped farther than any species of North American Orthoptera taken 

 by us, but owing to their tremendous numbei-s a large series was 

 easily secured. A series of fourteen males and thirty-one females 

 was taken at this localitj'-, a single female also being secured at Summit 

 House the same date in a situation similar to that frequented at Ray- 

 mond. The series contains several females which shghtly exceed 

 Caudell's maximum measurements for the caudal femur and ovipositor. 

 There is considerable variation in the general shade of coloration in 

 the series, some individuals being decidedly more testaceous than 

 others, the usual dark area on the lateral lobes of the pronotum being 

 hardly or only partially indicated in some of the pale specimens. 

 The previous records of the species were from Ahwahnee, Calaveras 

 and Raymond, California. 



GRYLLID^. 

 Ellipes minata (Scudiler). 



A single individual of this species was taken along the nearly dry 

 bed of the .Ahjhave River at Cottonwood, September 9. Although 

 coasiderable beating was done but one specimen was found. 



The species has been taken at Palm Springs, San Bernardino and 

 Ahwahnee, Califorriia. 

 Ectatoderus occidentalis (Scudder)? 



A single male individual of this genus was taken at Cottonwood, 

 September 9. We have assigned it provisionally to this species, 

 originally described from damaged female specimens taken at Cape 

 San Lucas, Lower California. The original description of Scudder's 

 species is so brief and the sex differences of many species of this genus 

 so great, that in the absence of females the determination is not at 

 all positive. No relationship exists with E. horealis Scudder, known 

 from Cahfornia and New Mexico, the produced pronotum of the 

 Cottonwood male suggesting that of Liphoplus mexicanus Saussure,^^ 

 but the tegmina are much shorter, rather different in character and the 

 facial scutellum is not distinctly divided. 



"Biol. Cent. Amer. Orlh., T, pi. XI, fig. 37. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 483 



The measurements of the specimen are as follows : Length of body 

 7.2 mm.; length of pronotum 3.2; greatest width of pmnotum 2.8; 

 length of tegmina caudad of pronotum 1.5; length of caudal fenuu- 4 . 3. 



At dusk and later, this insect was heard on eveiy side stridulating. 

 It was found that the musicians were hidden at the roots of greasewood 

 biishas where they \\ere almost inaccessible. The single specimen was 

 captured by suddenly pulhng a small bush up by the roots, and luckily 

 turning the insect out of his home. The stridulation was similar to 

 that of the genus GryUus Init shriller, an incessant zeee-zeee-zeee. 

 This ceased upon approach, even when the disturber was yards distant. 



Hemobius mormonius ScihIiUt. 



Two males and one female of this species were taken from grass 

 beside a stream at Las Vegas, Nevada, August 10, The species was 

 rather well distributed in this situation. 



Miogryllns lineatas (Siiidik-r). 



Two nuile- of this species were taken at Las ^'egys, Nevada, August 9, 

 on an ore pile, where a colony of these were chirping incessantly. 

 The type of the species was taken between Virgin River and I'ort 

 Mohave, Arizona. 

 CEcanthus niveus (DeOeer). 



A single male of this species was taken on geraniums after dark, 

 August 3, on Santa Catalina Island. Three females from Stanford 

 University, Cahfornia, taken October 3 t() 23. 1903, by V. (Irinnell, 

 Jr., have also been examined. 

 <Eoantbas californicus Saus.snri-. 



A single male from Kl Portal, taken August 30, and a female from 

 Mt. Wilson, ."),000 feet elevation, San (labriol Mountains, taken Sep- 

 tember 19 by F. Grirmell, Jr., I^elong to this species. The general 

 color is pale ochraceous in the male and olive-green in the female, 

 the male having tiie head, except the mouth parts, and tlots on the 

 pronotum red, the fii-st and second joints of the antenna' are also red- 

 dish but duller, while the third to seventh or eighth arc dark brownish 

 fading distad. The female beai-s no red e.xcept a wash of red-brown 

 on the two proximal anteimal segments, the brownish area on the 

 antennx found in the male being present in the female as well. The 

 Kl Portal speeimen was taken at night in a tangle of bushes by means 

 of :i laiiterti. 




4S4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



NOVKMBKH 2. 



The rrft>ident, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., l.L.L)., in the Chair. 



Twenty-iiine pereoiis present. 



The meeting was held for the fii-st time in the new Reading Room. 

 The following circular had been issued October 1 : 



'"The removal of the Library- of the Academy to the new building 

 has been completed, and the books have been permanently arranged 

 in the steel stacks. 



"While the old Libraiy Hall is dismantled, the new Reading Room, 

 in which the ordinary' meetings of the Academy will hereafter be held, 

 cannot he prejiared for the j^urpose in time for the October sessions. 



''Attendance of membei-s will not, therefore, be expected at either 

 of the October stated meetings." 



The Secretaires, the Librarian and the Curators reported on the 

 work accomplished during the summer. 



The PubUcation Conmiittee reported that papei*s under the following 

 titles had been presented for publication since the meeting held May IS : 



"On the Spinnerets, Cribellum, Colulus, Tracheae and Lung Books 

 of Araneads," by Thomas H. Montgomeiy, Jr. (May 21). 



"The PolychaetoiLS Annelids dredged by the U. S. S. Albatross off 

 the Coast of Southern California in 1904. I. Gryllidse, Spha^rodondte, 

 Hesionidffi and Phyllodocida^," by J. Percy Moore (May 24). 



"Notes on the Habits of the Birds of San Domingo, with a list of 

 species obtained, including a new Hawk," by A. E. \'errill and A. 

 Hyatt Veri-ill (May 26). 



"An Orthopterological Reconnoissance of the Southwestern United 

 States. Part III. California and Nevada," by James A. G. Rehn 

 and Morgan Hebard (June 22). 



"A new species of Scalpellum from British Columbia," by Henry A. 

 Pilsbr)- (July 5). 



"Note on the Morphology of Fulgur," by Burnett Smith (July 15). 



"Antiquities of the Ouachita Vallev," bv Clarence B. Moore (Julv 

 26). 



"Report on an additional collection of Skeletal Remains from 

 Arkansas and Louisiana," by Dr. Ales Hrdl cka (July 26). 



"On the true status of the Genus Cacopoides," by Thomas Barbour 

 (September 9). 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 485 



"A new species of Pish of the Genus Atopichthys, with notes on 

 New Jei-sey Fishes," by Henry W. Fowler (September 17). 



"Thomas Meehan," by Stewardson Brown (September 24). 



"Notes on the Flora of Bermudas/' bv Stewardson Brown (October 

 18). 



"MoUusca of the Southwestern States. III. The Huachuca 

 Mountains, Arizona," by Henry A. Pilsbry and James H. Ferriss 

 (October 25). 



"A new Sonorella from the Rincon Mountains, Arizona," by Henry 

 A. Pilsbry and James H. Ferriss (October 25). 



" Unionida? of the Panuco River System, Mexico," 'oy Henry A. 

 Pilsbry (October 25). 



"Melanida? of the Panuco River Svstem, Mexico." l)y Henry A. 

 PiLsl)ry and A. A. Hinkley (Octol)er 25). 



"Now Land Shells from Mexico," bv Henrv A. Pils])iv ( November 

 2). 



The deaths of the following membere were announced : J. Dickinson 

 Sergeant, June 10; William G. Binney, August 2; Henry C'adwallador 

 Chapman, M.D., September 7; Christopher James Cleborne, M.I)., 

 October 2; Henry Charles Lea, October 24. 



NoVKMP.KK U). 



.\kthur Krwin liuowx, Sc.l)., \'icc-Pre.sident, in the Chair. 



Twenty-one persons present. 



The deatlxs of Benjamin W. Richards, a member, December 10, 1908, 

 and of Theodore R. Wolf, a member, June 22, 1909, were annouijced. 

 The deaths of the following correspondents were also amiounceii: 

 Rudolf Berg, June 20; R. K. C. Stearns, June 27; Kakidii MitMikiiri, 

 Septeml)er 17, and Anton Dohrn, September 26, 1909. 



Officers, Cfjuaselloi-s and members of the Committee on Accounts 

 were nominated, to be imlloted for at the Annual .Meeting. 



Theodore de Thodorovitch, LL.D., and Jaim>s A. G. liclm were 

 elected members. 



Oscar Drude, of Dresden, was elected a correspondent. 



i'lie following were ordered to be printed: 




486 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADENTS' OF [Nov.,. 



NOTES ON THE FLORA OF THE BERMUDAS. 

 UY STEWARDSON 15ROAVX. 



The present flora of the l^ernuidas, aside from the jilant.s known 

 to have been introduced througli the agency of man, probably num- 

 bers about two hundred species, of which thirteen vascular forms are 

 endemic, and has undoubtedly been derived through the usual agencies 

 producing insular floras. On the stretches of sandy beach the same 

 species are met with as characterize similar locations in the West 

 Indies or Florida: Ipomoca pcs-capnc (L.) Sweet, Canavalia ohtxisijolia 

 (L.) D. C, Scsiivium portidacaslnayiL., Croton pundatus 3 acq., Sccevola 

 Plumieri (L.) Vahl. and Cakile lanceolata {W\\\d.) O. E. Schultz, while 

 on the rocky shores are Borrichia arborescens (L.) DC, B. jrutescens 

 (L.) DC, Chamcesyce hiixijolia (Lam.) Small, and the two characteristic 

 shrubs Suriana maritima L. and Tournefortia gnaphalodes (L.) R. Br. 

 On the shores of the quiet bays and lagoons the mangrove Rhizo- 

 phora niangle L. and Avicennia nitida Jacc^. are the dominant species, 

 while in the marshes Osmunda spedabilis Willd., 0. cinnamomea L., 

 Pteridium caudatum (L.) Maxon, Cladium jamaicense Crantz, Eleo- 

 charis inlerslincta (Vahl.) R. and S., Kyllinga brevijolia Rottb., Typha 

 angustijolia L., Myrica cerifera L. and Baccharis glomeruli jolia Pers^ 

 are more or less generally distributed. The plants of the higher 

 ground seem more restricted in their distribution for the most part. 

 Dodonoea angustijolia Sw. is generally distributed through the hills, 

 Randia aculeata L. is known only on the Paget Sand Hills, while the 

 following are found almost exclusively in the Walsingham Tract: 

 Adelia segregata (Jacq.) Kuntze; Psychotria undata Jacq., Trema 

 Lamarkiana (R. and S.) Blume, Eugenia monticola D. C and Zanihoxy- 

 lum flavum ^'ah]., the last known only from two trees, one on a hill 

 east of Paynter's Vale (B. and B., No. 357, 1905), with several young 

 ones surrounding it, and the other discovered by the writer in one of 

 the sinkholes near the caves at Walsingham. These, so far as known, 

 are all that survive of the "yellow-wood" of the islands, referred to 

 by early writers as growing in such abundance. 



With the exception of the cedar (Juniperus bermudiana L.), which 

 is very abundant in the islands, by far the commonest plants to-day 

 are those introduced by man. A number of weeds on the roadsides 




1909.] NATURAL SCTENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 487 



and in the "gardens" and others which do not belong to this class, 

 but have been introduced for their beauty or utiHty and are now so 

 thoroughly naturaUzed as to have become an integral part of the 

 flora. Among these plants the most abundant is the common sage, 

 Lantana involucrata L., said to have been introduced from the Bahamas 

 more than a centuiy ago as a fuel, to take the place of the cedar which 

 was being extensively used for lime burning. It is now so general 

 throughout the islands that were it not known to be an introduction 

 it might easily be mistaken for a native plant. Lantana camara L., 

 introduced as a garden flower from Madeira in 1819, is as generally 

 distributed though not ciuite as alnmdant, and when in flower is one 

 of the striking jjlants of the roads and hillsides. The fiddlewood, 

 Citharexylon quadrangulare Jacq., introduced at Paynter's Vale in 

 1830 by Archdeacon Spencer, is now abundant everywhere on the 

 main island, having spread from the original tree, which is still stand- 

 ing. Another of Archdeacon Spencer's introductions at Paynter's 

 Vale in 1840 was the myrtle, Jasminutn sitnplicifolium Forst, which 

 now festoons the trees and rocks, forming almost impenetrable tangles 

 throughout the Walsingham Tract, where it has become a great 

 nuisance by smothering many of the more desirable ])lants, especially 

 the cedar. Without doubt the birds have j)layed an important part 

 in the spread of these four species through the islands, as all bear a 

 profusion of berries. Other introductions are j)romincnt features 

 in the vegetation of the islands, Ijut two of the most striking which 

 are integral parts of the flora are the oleander, Nerium oleander 

 L., introduced in 1790 as a rare exotic and now planted extensively 

 for hedges and windl)roaks, which is naturalized on the hillsides, 

 and while in flower during the summer months is a gorgeous display 

 of color, and the Life Plant of tiic Benmidians, Brjfnpfn/llum pinna- 

 tum (Lam.) S. Kurz, introduced as a curiosity in iSb} and now abun- 

 dant evei'j'Avhere on the road'^ides and in the woods, when flowering 

 during the winter months, is hardly less a feature than the oleander. 



In HX)5, the writer, in con)pany with Dr. and Mi's. Nathaniel Lord 

 Britton, of the New York Botanical Garden, visited the islands between 

 August 31 and September 20, when a collection of more than four 

 hundred species was made, principally in the several marshes and in 

 the Walsingham Tract, The writer made two s>il)scqucnt visits to 

 the islands,' from February 10 to March 9, 1908, and May 22 to June 



'Investigation nrosorut«'(l with the niil of a grant from th«- lv«tli< r II<rrtnan 

 Fund of the New York Academy of Sciencca. 




4as 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Nov., 



2. 11X)0, when collections of more than three hundred species were 

 niaile, a majority of which were not included in the fonner gatherings. 

 In the present jiaper, which is based on tlie observations and collec- 

 tions made during these several visits, only the endemic species among 

 the flowering plants are considered, together with such as have been 

 added to the hitherto published lists. 



Janiperus bermudiana L. 



R. and B., No. 1, September. 1905. Mt. Langdon, north shore. 



The most abundant tree, growing everywhere throughout the islands, 

 in dry and rocky ground as well as in the mai-shas. At the time of 

 flowering during March and earl}' April the staminate trees are a 

 golden color, pr&senting a striking contrast with the rich blue-green 

 of the pistilate trees. 



Thalassia testudinam Koenig <& Simsf. 



B. and B., No. 185, September, 1005. Spanish Point and Hungry 

 Bay. Found abundantly in all the shallow baj^s, and is probably the 

 basis for the record of Zoslern marina L. of the lists, as that species 

 was nowhere observed. 



Andropogon virginicns L. 



B. and B., No. 225, September, 1905. 

 elsewhere. 



Paget Marsh. Not observed 



Syntherisma violascens (Link) Nash. 



B. and B., No. 57, September, 1905. Hills north of Hamilton. 



Polypogon littoralis L. 



B. and B., No. 301, September, 1905. Roadside near Warwick 

 Marsh, S. B., No. 698, 1909. Middle Road. Frequent on the road- 

 sides throughout the islands. 



Erogprostis major Host. 



B. and B., No. 308, September, 1905. In cultivated ground near 

 Warwick Pond. 



On top of cliffs, south shore, west of 



Poa pratensis L. 



S. B., No. 670, May, 1909. 

 Tuckers Town. Frequent. 



Briza maxima L. 



B. and B., No. 346, September, 1905. Field near Gibbs Hill Light. 

 S. B., No. 679, May, 1909. Middle Road near Wesleyan Church. 

 Observed at a number of places throughout the island, in the lawns 

 and on the hillsides. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 489 



Bromas unioloides (WilM.) H. B. K. 



S. II. Xn. 685, May, 1909. St. David's Island, growing abundantly 

 in a field. 

 Hordeam pusillum Nutt. 



S. B.. Xo. 695. May. 1909. St. David's Island. Abundant on the 

 roadsides and around St. David's Light. 

 Cyperus alternifolius L. 



S. B., Xo. 578, March, 1908. Muish near Tuckei-s Town. S. B., 

 No. 726. June, 1909. Pembroke Mai-sh. Although undoubtedly an 

 escape from cultivation, it is thoroughly naturalized and spreading 

 in the localities noted. 



Cyperus flavescens L. 



B. and B., Xo. 334, Septemljer, 1905. Pembroke Mai-sh. 

 Cyperus filicinns N'ahl. 



B. and B., Xo. 101, September, 1905. Serpentine Mai-sh. 

 Scirpus Olneyi .\. Gray. 



B. and B., Xo. 304, September, 1905. Warwick Mai-sh. 



Eleocharis cellulosa Torrey. 



B. and B.. X(.. 305. September, 1905. Warwick Marsh. 



Eleocharis pratincola Brit ton. 



S. B., Xo. 723. June. 1909. Pembroke Mai-sh. 



Carex bermudiana Hem.Hley. 



ii. and P>., Xo. 224, September, 1905. S. B., Xo. (ill), .March. 1908. 

 Paget Mai-sh. At the time of the preparation f)f the "Challenger" 

 report, this interesting species was known only from a specimen in 

 the Sloan Herbarium at the British Museum, and as no subsecpicnt 

 collections had been made up to that time. Prof. Ilomsley exjircssed 

 .some d(»ul)t as to whether the species described by him was really 

 collected in the islands. Our rediscovciy of it in September, 11M)5, at 

 what is likely to l)e tlie original locality in Paget Marsh, settles the 

 correctness of Sloan's label beyond a douI)t. The si)eci(>s appears 

 restricted at the present time to this one lociliix- ulimv however, 

 it is growing in some abun<lance. 

 Carex alboluteioeni .Srhwein. 



S. P>.. Xo. 702, May, 11K);>. Kastern end of Devonshire .Mai-sh. 

 Abundant. Not olxscrved elsewhere. 

 Sabal Blackburniana GlaM<br(M>k. 



B. and B., No. 217. September, l'.K)5. Throughotit tlie\islands, 

 but varj'ing con.'^iderably in appearance according to situations. 

 3i 




•190 PROCEKDIXGS OF THK ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



On the dry exposed hillsides it is more or less dwarfed and of a yellowish 

 color, wiiile in moist rich ground and the marehes it is a handsome tree 

 with rich green foliage. It is recorded as at one time an abundant tree, 

 forming extensive groves, but it is now found for the most part only 

 in the lawns where it has been preserved. The finest natural grove 

 observed by us is in Paget Marsh, where hundreds of examples may 

 be seen in varying stages of growth. Some fine s])ecimens are also 

 to be found in the Devonsliire Mai-sh, probably taller than any othei*s 

 in the islands. 



Junous bnfonius L. 



S. B., No. 675, ^lay, 1909. Cultivated ground, Harrington House. 

 S. 1?., No. 725, June, 1909. Pembroke Marsh. 

 Nothoscordium bivalve (L.) Britton. 



No. 415, 1905. Mr. Nicholas Peniston, Paynter's Vale. S. B.; 

 No. 696, May, 1909. Abundant in a cultivated field near Devil's Hole. 

 Sisyrinchinm bermudianQm L. 



B. and B., No. 2 (fruit). Mt. Langdon, north shore. S. B., No. 

 661, May, 1909. Harrington House. "The Bermudiana," by which 

 name it is known throughout the islands where it is everj'where abun- 

 dant, growing in all kinds of situations. During April and May it is 

 a striking flower of the hills, roadsides and lawns. 

 Feperomia septentrionalis n. sp. 



Plant smooth, green throughout, except the peduncles and stems 

 which are frequently rosy when exposed to strong light. Stems 

 rather stout, 2 to 4 dm. long, ascending at the tips; leaves alternate, 

 blades leathery, entire, dark green and shining above, glandular 

 punctate, oval to Qvate or obovate, slightly emarginate, 4 to 6 cm. long, 

 9 to 11 nerved, decurrent at the base, with the petioles 1 to 3 cm. long; 

 spikes terminal or axillary in the upper leaves, simple or several times 

 branched, .5 to 1.5 dm. long with peduncles shorter than the leaves, 

 rather densely flowered; nutlets oblong, shghtly papillose, 1 mm. long 

 with a straight or shghtly curved beak one-third their length. 



In woods usually on moist or shaded rocks, frequent throughout 

 the island from the Causeway to Tuckers Town, among the rocks and 

 around the caves, sinks and fissures; also in the shaded portion of 

 l^aget Mai-sh, growing on the damp ground and over the stones, 

 flowering from late autumn to spring. Probably most nearly related 

 to P. mafjnolioefolia microphylla Dahlstedt, from which it differs in 

 the relatively broader leaves and the less strongly papillose nutlets 

 which are oblong iiLstead of ovate-globose. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 491 



Type, S. B., No. 428, March, 1908. Herb. A. N. S. Philadelphia. 

 From shores of Castle Harbor, Walsingham. 



Alternanthera maritima St. Hil. 



S. B., Xo. 4S7, March, 1908. Long Bird Island. Abundant in a 

 little cove on the Castle Harbor side of the island, about a quarter of 

 a mile from the end of the Causeway. 



Phytolacca decandra L. 



li. and B.. Xo. 219, September, 1905. Paget Mareh. 



Alsine Baldwinii Small. 



S. B., Xo. 580, March, 1908. Sand Hills, Tuckers Town. Appar- 

 ently an abundant plant in this portion of the island, but not observed 

 elsewhere. 



Sagpina procnmbens L. 

 S. B., No. 585, March, 1908. Top of cliffs near Tuckei-s Town. 



Tisaa marina (L.) Britton. 



S. B., No. 591, March, 1908. South shore near Spittle Pond. 

 Abundant. 



Silene nocturna L. 



S. B., No. 583, March, 1908, and No. 671, May, 190<). Top of 

 cUfFs, south shore, near Tuckers Town. Frequent. 



Silene noctiflora L. 



S. B., No. 682, May, 1909. At western end of Causeway. This 

 species was also observed sparingly near Harringtr)!! House, in a piece 

 of grassy woods. 



Ranancalus acris I.. 



^^. and I'., Xo. 244. Grassy woods, south shore road, Devon.shire. 



Papaver Bhoeas L. 



S. P.., Xo. 530, March, 1908, Cultivated ground, St. George^, 

 near s^vinging bridge, 



Diplotaxis muralis (L.) D. C. 



S. h., Xo. 6S6, May, 1909. St. David's Island. AlMiiidiuit. 



Pedicellaria pentaphylla (L.) Schr. 



li. and B., Xo. 70, September, HX)5, Cultivated ground north 

 shore. 



Potentilla reptans I- * 



li. and B., Xo. 21 1 , September, 1905. South shore road, Devonshire. 




492 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



Laurocerasus caroliniana (Mill) U<>cin. 



H. and li., Xo. 220, September, I'JUo. Paget Mai>;h. A number 

 of ti-ees of various sizerJ, intermixed with the cedar and Pahnetto. 

 Not ol)S!erved elsewhere. 

 Phaaeolus lunatus I.. 



S. ]>.. No. GSO, ^hiy, PJU'.». In an open cave near Tuckei-s Town, 

 growing to a lieight of 5 to S meters, over the cedars and fiddlewoods; 

 flowei-s white, yellow in fading. S. B., No. 719, June, 1909. Joyce's 

 Dock Cave. Abundant, growing over the trees and rocks; flowers 

 purple. A Phaseolus from this locality, which is without doubt the 

 same, is rccortled in Lefroy's list without specific name. 

 Poinsettia cyathophora (.Murray). 



P>. and B., No. 296, September. 1905. Cultivated ground, Walsing- 

 ham. Abundant throughout the northern end of the Walsingham 

 region and around liailey's Bay. Not observed elsewhere in the 

 islands. 



Cissas sycioides I-. 



B. and B.. No. 22:]. Paget Marsh, climl^ing over the trees. 



Elaeodendron Laneanum .\. H. Moore. 



P.. and B., No. 274, September, 1905 (fruit), Walsingham, near 

 cave-s. S. B., No. 453, ^larch, 1908 (flowers). Walsingham, near 

 caves. I'requent throughout the Walsingham Tract between Payn- 

 ter's \a\e and the Causeway. Most abundant in the vicinity of the 

 caves, where it becomes a handsome tree 7 to 10 metere high. The 

 flowers appear early in March. 



Abatilon abutilon (I.) Ilusby. 



P>. and B.. Xo. 1S3, September, 1905. Cultivated ground, Spanish 

 point. 

 Malvastrum americanum (I-.) Torr. 



P.. and li.. Xo. 248, September, 1905. Roadside near Devil's Hole. 

 Sida rhombifolia L 



15. and B., Xo. 272, September, 1905. Walsingham. Abundant 

 throughout the Walsingham Tract. 

 Turnera ulmifolia f. 



S. B., Xo. 540, .March, 1908; Xo. 713, May, 1909, Walsingham ; and 

 Miss Delia Marble, Xo. 739, April, 1909, Knapton Hill. 

 Isnardia paluitris h. 



B. and il, Xo. 337, September, 1905. Pembroke Marsh. Abun- 

 dant. . 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 403 



Hartmannia speciosa (Nutt.) Small. 



.S. B., Xo. 715. May. 1909. Tn a cultivated field at Tiu-ke-s Town, 

 veiy abundant. 

 Pimpinella aniseum I 



S. 11. Xo. 535, Mairh. 1908. On the top.s of cliff.<. St. (.ie«n-ge'.s 

 Island. 



Diospyros virginiana I.. 



B. and ]i.. Xo. 401, September, 1905. Xatuializcd on the border 

 of A\'ar\vick Mar.<h and spreading by suekei-s. 

 Gomphocarpus physocarpas i:. Meyer. 



S. B., Xo. 690. May. 1909. Escaj)ed to roadside St. Daviil's Island. 



Chiococca bermudiana n. >i>. 



A stra<:gling, weak-stemmed shrub .seldom moretluui a meter high. 

 I>eaves lustrous coriaceous 5 to 12 cm. long, 2 to 6 cm. broad, elliptic 

 to ovate, abruptly narrowed at both ends, acute or short acuminate 

 at the apex, cuneate at the base; flowers lunnerous in racemose panicle.^, 

 pedicels rather stout 4 to 6 mm. long, hypantiiium 1 to 1.5 mm. long 

 during anthesis, sepals triangular shorter than the calyx tube, slightly 

 ciliate, corolla light yellow becoming darker with age, S to 10 mm. 

 long, tube funnel form, lobes ovate-lanceolate less tiian tme-third 

 the length of the tube, stameiLS at the base of the tube, filaments 

 1 nmi. long, anthei-s 2 to 5 mm. long, style the length of the corolla 

 tube; fruit subglobose pure white and lustrous, 7 to S nun. long, 

 slightly broader than long, flattened. 



Ty|)e. B. and B.. Xo. 181, September, 1905, in Herb. .\. X. S. I'hila. 

 Shaded liillsides, north shore near Flatts. Frequent tluntughout 

 the Walsingiiam Tra^t from the Causeway to Tuckei-s Town and spar- 

 ingly on the wooded hillsides through the central pai't of the i>land. 



Differs from ('. mccnioso L., to which it is most nearly related, in 

 the larger leaves, stouter and longei- pedicels anrl larger berries. 



Galium bermudense r 



I'., and I'.. Xo. ;;i, Sei)tember. 19(i5. I'aget Sand Iiill<. IlilMdes 

 and woods throughout tiie islands, though nowhere abiindant. 



Oalium aparine I 



S. B.. Xo. Kil. .Mar<-h. l'.K)8. ('ultivatcd iiinuiiil. r;iyiit.T - \ ;ilr. 

 S. li.. 010, Marr-h, I'.KK. Somei-set Island. 



Urospermum picroidea ' I. ) Schmi'li. 



S. B., Xo. 095, .May. 1909. St. David's Island, in tiie opeft ground 

 generally distributed over the eastern end of the island. 




494 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



Reiohardia pioroides (L.) lioth. 



S. B., No. 716, May, 1909. Ainong the sand hills on the soutji 

 shore a mile west of Tuckere Town. 

 Zupatorium adenophoram SprenR. 



S. B.. No. 541. >huch, 1908. Roadside in St. George's, near the 

 docks. 



Erigeron D.irrellianus Hemsley. 



B. and B., No. 26, September, 1905. RocLs, north shore road, 

 S. B.. No. 497, March, 1908. Roadside near Harrington House, and 

 No. 598, -Alarch, 1908. Wooded hillside near Tuckers Town. On 

 rocks and hillsides more or less generally distributed throughout the 

 islands, varying from a low tufted plant a decimeter or less high to a 

 much branched straggling shrub frequently more than a meter high, 

 flowering during March and April and occasionally Avith a second 

 flowering in the autumn. 

 Gnaphalium pnrpuream L. 



S. B., No. 588, March, 1908, and No. 072, May, 1909. Top of 

 cUfTs, south shore, near Tuckers Town. 

 Galinsoga parviflora Cav. 



S. B., No. 645, March, 1908. A weed in the Public Gardens. 

 Achillea millefolia I.. 



B. and B., No. 403, September, 1905. Grassy woods, south shore 

 road. Devonshire; also observed in cultivated ground near Hamilton. 




1909.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



495 



MOLLUSCA OF THE SOUTHWESTERN STATES, III: THE HUACHUCA 

 MOUNTAINS, ARIZONA. 



BY HENRY A. PILSBRY and JAMKS H. FERRISS. 



The Huachuca Mountains stand in the southwest angle of Cochise 

 county, Arizona, their southern foothills reacliing over the international 

 boundary. The highest summits do not quite attain 10,000 feet. 

 Northward the Whetstone range loonxs up, a fine if arid mountain 

 mass, as yet unexplored for shells. On every side hes the desert, 

 barren of molluscan life. Our purpose is to give an account, incom- 

 plete as it now maj^ be, of the molluscan life of tliis range.' 



The Huachucas have not yet been accurately mapped. Tlio sketch 



D Fort Huachuca 



' TAtxNen Canon 



v, 



Fig. 1. Sketch-map of Iluuclnic.'i MoiitituiiiH. 



' .\ few new rcc«ird.s iin- added of spf-rics taken iti river drill at lt<HH(»ii, Cocliiae 

 county, .HOtne dLstanco northward fn)n» tlie llna<'hucu range. Tlie.sc forms 

 were derived from .sonic other di-strict. Other record.s from Iten.sdn mav be 

 found in our MoUusra of the Southwestern Stales. II. 1*.K)(;, ■md in I);dl, I'roc. V. S. 

 Nat. MiL-i., XIX. 1.S9G. 




400 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [XdV., 



here given shows the fieneral positions of localities nicntioncd in the 

 text. 



The first mollusks collected in the Huiicluica.s were taken by a 

 Mr. Cox, who sent some Helices to Dr. Isaac Lea many yeai-s ago, 

 with the locality "Tucson." These shells are what we now call Ashmun- 

 cUa van'cifera. Nothing is known of Cox beyond liis name on the 

 label. At the time these shells were collected Tucson was no doubt 

 the nearest settlement or post to the Huachucas, and hence was put 

 down as the locality. It is not imlikely that Cox picked up these 

 shells in the coui-se of a chase from the army post at Tucson after 

 marauding Apaches. Be this as it may, Ashmunella raricifera is an 

 indubitable Iluachucan snail, and was collected at a time when hostile 

 and dangerous Indians occupied that country. On the death of 

 Dr. Lea the specimens came into the possession c)f the National Museum , 

 where they are now preserved. 



In 1S80 Mr. Bland described a snail. Triodopsis levetlei (now Ash- 

 munello levettei), collected by Dr. CI. M. Levette, and thought to be 

 from near Santa Fe, New Mexico. Explorations in that region have 

 shown that the Ashmunellas there are of a somewhat different type, 

 and the true habitat of the species was not known imtil Mr. Ferriss 

 rediscovered the species in the Huachucas, where it is restricted to the 

 heads of certain canyons. It is certain, therefore, that Dr. Levette 

 had forgotten where he procured the original specimens, which are 

 now in the American Museum of Natural History, New York. 



The fii-st snails actually reported from the Huachucas w^ere collected 

 l)y Dr. Edgar A. Mearns, U. S. A., a member of the party surveying the 

 Mexican boundary in 1892-1894. They were described by Dr. W. H. Dall 

 in two papei-s,^ pul)hshed in 1895 and 1896. Six species were obtained 

 in the Huachuca range :^ 



Polygyra levettei [ = Ashmiinelln I. angigyra]. 

 Polygyra mearnsi [ = Ashmunella jnearnsi]. 



Epiphragmophora hachitana, depressed variety from Tanner Canyon 

 [ = Sonorella clalli]. 



Patula strigosa var. [ = Oreohelix s. huachucana]. 



^ Diagnoses of new moHuskH from the survey of the Mexican boundary, in 

 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XVIII, 1895, p. 1, and Report on the inollu.sk.s collected 

 by the International Ii<^jundarv ConunLssion of the United States and Mexico, 

 1892-1894, same Proc, XIX, pp. 333-379. 



' Dr. Dall's pioneer work on southern Arizona shells was publi.slied prior to the 

 anatomical researches which led to the establishment of new genera for the 

 Helices of that region. He had only dry shells to deal with, and lience followed 

 the generic nomenclature current at that time. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 497 



Patvla s. conccntrata [ = Oreohelix s. conccntnitd]. 

 Cionella lubrica [ = Cochlicopa lubrica]. 



Several Huachiican species were figured Ijy Mr. Paul Bartsch in 

 his monoorraph of Sonorella, 1904, and 6'. (hiUi n. sp. was described. 



The seven species of snails mentioned al)ove sum up all that was 

 known of Huachucan mollusks prior to the visit of Mr. Ferriss in 1902. 

 In 1904 the ranp;e was again visited.* and again in 1907 Messi-s. Ferriss 

 and Ti. E. Daniels made extensive collections. Dr. Henry Skinner, the 

 well-known entomologist, made a iiseful collection of shells in Carr 

 Canyon, in August. 1905, and Mr. V. R. Biodcnuan has contrilnited a 

 few species from the same place. 



The present report is based upon practically all of the material 

 ever collected in the Huachucas. Through the unfailing kindness of 

 Dr. Dall, the series in the National Museum has been examined. 

 Dr. Gratacap has permitted a re-examination of the types of Ashmun- 

 ella levettci; and Dr. Bartsch has assisted with various helpful services. 



HELICID^. 

 Genus SONORELLA Pils. 

 The Huachucan Sonorellas are all distinct specifically fn'm lliose 

 of other ranges. So far as known anatomically, they belong to groups 

 special to this range; hence speak for a long isolation. 



Omitting .S. huttchiicana, which is unknown anatomically, the species 

 of the Huachuca and Patagonia .M-.iuitains can ho (Ictcrmincd by 

 this key: 



f/.— Penis long (about 40 mm. in a shell 27 mm. diam.), with a short 

 hollow i)a[)illa containing a tube; epiphallus long, 4i)-()0 nun.; 



fiagellum presrut '^- <l"ll'- 



o'. — Penis and epiphallus short, the former containing a flcr^hy, cylin- 

 dric papilla over half the length of penis; llagellum vestigeal 

 or wanting. 

 b. — Vagina about as long as penis; si)ermatheca and duct about 



f(MU- times as long, •'^'- rnirrlli. 



6'.— Vagina nnich longer than the penis; spermatlie( a and dii«t 

 not differing greatly from vagina in length, 

 c— Penis o to 7.5. pajnlla -iM to 5 mm. long; upper part of 

 vagina muscular, swollen, usually fusiform. 



,S*. (frdiiuhitissinui. 



f'.— Penis 12 to 19, pa|)illa 9 to i:{ mm. long; vagiiui slender. 



with a small fleshy node midway, . . .S. (hnidsi. 



♦See Southwcstom Shells. Nautilu/f, XVIII. Sept.. 1004. pp. 49-52. and 

 MoUiwcH of tin- S)UthvKst<rn Statc-M. I'ror. A. A. .S'. Hila., ISy/i. pp. 2\\-2SHK 




•19S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



SoQorella huaohuoana Pilsbry. m. XIX. Aks. 16, 17. 



5. inrilis huachucana Pilshuy, Proc. A. X. S. Phila., \90r, n 207 nl 17 

 fig. 24. - I ■ . J . 



This is a non-granulose species with conspicuous pale borders along 

 the brown band. We formerly thought it a subspecies of A. virilis 

 of the Chiricahua range, but since all the other Plelices of this range 

 are specifically distinct, it is not likely that huachucana \\\\\ prove an 

 exception. It comes from Brown's and Bear Canyons, and must be 

 rare or very local. None were taken in 1907. 



The soft anatomy is unknown. We therefore know notliing of its 

 relationships with other species. Fig. 16 represents a shell from 

 Bear Canyon. Fig. 17 the type from Brown's Canyon. 



Group of S. dalli. 

 Sonorella dalli Bartsch. Plate XIX, figs. 1, 2, 3. 



Sonorella dalli Bartsch, Smiths. Misocll. Coll., "\'ol. 47, p. 193, pi. 31, fig. 1 



(Oct. 10, 1904). 

 Epiphragmophora hachitnna, depressed variety from Tanner Canj'on, Dall, 



Proc. U. 8. X. M., XIX, pp. 339, 340, pi. 31, figs. 7, 10 (1896). 



Specimens were taken only in Tanner Canyon, the type locality. 

 It is probably restricted to this place. It is a fine species, distin- 

 guished by the broad, flattened shape, veiy open umbilicus and much 

 deflexed last whorl. The largest specimen taken measures 28 mm., 

 the smallest 23 mm. diameter. Compared with S. granulatissima latior, 

 wliich also occurs in Tanner Canyon, .S. dalli is more openly umbilicate, 

 the aperture is flattened above, the obUque sculpture is coareer. In 

 some old specimens the front edge of the parietal callus is tliickened, a 

 narrow ridge connecting the ends of the lip. 



The penis (pi. XXII, fig. 4) is extremely long, slightly enlarged 

 distally, its walls thin, with most minute and close transverse rugae. 

 It contains a smooth papilla, tapering' to an obtuse apex, and about 

 one-fifth the length of the penis. The papilla is hollow with rather 

 thin walls. Within it a slender tube runs from the epiphallus to the 

 apex, where it opens by a lateral pore. This tube is lightly attached 

 to the wall of the penis-papilla. It is indicated by dotted lines in 

 fig. 4. The epiphallus is extremely long, terminating in a short 

 flagellum. The penis retractor muscle, 7 mm. long, is inserted upon 

 it 4 mm. from the end of the penis. The long vagina has a slender 

 neck, enlarging moderately above. 



The spermatheca is globular, on a duct much shorter than the penis. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 490 



In one specimen dissected it bears a minute diverticulum about 1 mm. 

 long, 2 mm. from the base of the duct. In another individual no 

 diverticulum was found, so that it may possiblj^ be abnormal or 

 pathologic. The measurements of the organs in two individuals 

 preserved in formalin follow: 



Xo. 94,384. No. 94,358. 



Length of penis, 39 mm. 41 mm, 



" " penis-papilla, . . . . . S " 9 " 



" epiphallus, 40 " 60 " 



" flagellum, 4 " 3 " 



" vagina, 25 " 



" spermatheca and duct, .... 34 " 27 " 



Tlie jaw (pi. XXII, fig. 6) ha.^ five strong ribs grouped in the middle 

 half of it^ length. 



The radula has about 41, 1, 41 teeth (pi. XXII, fig. 8). The central 

 and lateral tenth have mesocones only; on the 17th an ectocone appears. 

 On the outer marginal teeth the inner cusp or sometimes both cusps are 

 bifid, but the ectocone is not split into several cusps as in some other 

 species. 



The e.\ccs.^ivc lengtli of penis and epiphallus, and especially the 

 hollow, thin-wallcd papilla containing a separate duct or tube (a 

 structure unique in the genus), are characters which set S. dalli apart 

 from all other known Sonf>rellas. It stands alone in its own line of 

 differentiation. 



Group of ,S. (jronuUilissiina. 



These forms are closely related to the group of <S'. hachitana, but 

 difTor by the thick, quite cylindric prnis-papilla, solid excei)t for the 

 minute i)erforation, and very oi)tuse or truncate at its distal end, 

 and l)y having no flagollinn or only a minute vcstigeal one. In the 

 hdchildna group the papilla tajieiv, at least at the distal end, and a 

 minute but distinctly developed flagellum is present in known forms. 

 The distinction is only a small matter, but serves to distinguish the 

 Ilnachufan forms. S. rourlli (Xouc), from a little farther west, 

 belongs to the same group. 



The dimensions of the genitalia in several specimens of each form 

 are given in the accompanying table. Most of the specimens were 

 preserved in alcohol in the field, and some variation is doubtless 

 traceal)le to various degrees of contraction. 




o(X) 



PROCEKDIXGS OF THK ACADEMY OF 



INov., 



Species. Liifaiity 

 ami Mustiiin No. 



Spenn- 



ath.'cal l^'""i- 

 and j "I 

 duct. I sliell. 



S. gruniilalissiino. | 



Uaiusov. s:V_V)7 j 7.3 



Miller ("n.. 94.330 1 6 



CarrCn.. iK),404 [ 5.5 



•S. y. Intior. i 



Tanner Cu.. 04.3.S7 ] (i 



lirowi {'n..94,356 (J 



Hrowii. w. fork, 94,.359 5 



Salvation, 94.395 ' 7 



Limestone Mt., 94,393 7.5 



.S. 



dunicl.si. 



Head of I^-ar, 94.31X5 



Ditto, 94.317 



E. fork Cave. 94,3.52 



MUler Pk., 94,337 



IS. 5 

 15 

 12 

 13.5 



4.8 I C. 



4 ' 



4 



3..^, 5 



4.5 , 6 



13 lU 



10 



s..") ! 



9 I 10 



19 

 21 

 IS 



21-22 

 IS. 5 

 18 

 20 

 23 



19 

 IS. 5 

 19 

 i 18-19 



Sonorella granulatissima PUsbry. PI. XIX, figs. 7, 8, 9; pi XXI, figs. 1-4. 



Proc. A. N. S. Pliila., 1905, p. 202, pl. 17, figs. 21-23: pi. IS. fi^s. 11-^3, 

 51-54. 



The typical form is found in Ramsey (figs. 7, 8), Carr and Miller 

 (fig. 9) Canyons. Types were from Ramsey. The shell is distin- 

 guislied by its very dense Ijeautiful granulation and the faint ness or 

 absence of spiral lines, though on some specimens they are j:)resont. 

 but very weak. 



I have examined the genitalia in a number of individiials from each 

 of the three canyons mentioned above. Figs. 1, 2, 3 rej)resents one 

 of the two cotypes.- Fig. 4 is from an example fiom Miller Canyon. 

 The chief feature is that the upper pari of the vagina fms thick muscular 

 walls, the outer layer coasisting of glossy circular muscular fibei-s. 

 Usually this pait is more or less swollen and fusiform. The lower part 

 of the vagina is thin-walled. This featiwe was conspicuous in e^•erv 

 one of about 20 individuals of 12 lots of S. granulatissima and S. g. 

 latior which were examined. The penis is short, its length contained 

 3 or 4 times in that of the vagina. It is abruptly tnmcate distally. 

 The penis-papilla is quite short, 3.3 to 5 mm. long, cyhndric, truncate 

 at tiie end, and coareely wrinkled. It is fleshy, perforated by a minute 

 pore, which opens at the end. The rather short epiphallus lias no 

 flagellum in any example opened with the exception of one of tjie 

 cotypes, in which there is a minute, vestigeal flagellnm about 0.7 mm. 



* Measured from a fresh. dro^\Tled example. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIP:NCES of PHILADELPHIA. 501 



long, and bound to the vas deferens by the outer muj^cular fascia. 

 -\s a rule, with rare exceptions, therefore, the flagellum is absent. 



Sonorella granulatissima latior Pib. PI. XIX, figs. 4, .5, 6. 

 Proo. .\. X. 8. P., 190.5. p. 2G4, pi. 18. figs. 24-28. 



Usually a larger shell than S. granulatissima, the last whorl more 

 depressed, approaching S. dalli in shape. Originally, described from 

 Brown's Canyon, it is now known also from the south .side of Limestone 

 Moimtain, east fork Salvation Ridge* and from Tanner Canyon. Three 

 cotyjjes are figured. 



The genitalia have been examined in numerous examples from 

 Tanner Canyon (pi. XXI, fig. 6), Brown's Canyon, east fork of 

 Salvation Ridge and JJmestone ^fountain. The charactei-s are iden- 

 tical with those of .S'. granulatissima. All of them have the upper 

 part of the vagina swollen, and there is no flagclhmi. Measurements 

 of several alcoholic specimens arc given in the table. 





l"ig. 2. M.irjrinal fcctli of N. fj. latior. Tanner Caiivi.n. 



The radula has 3S, 1, oS teeth, witii 10 laterals. The outer marginal 

 tcelli have the inner cusp deeply bifid, the outer one s()iiK'liitir>s split 

 (fig. 2. Xo. 94,383, Tanner Canyon). 

 Sonorella granulatissima parva I'il-- PI. XIX, fiK.-*. lo, li, \*. 



Xo fiirtiicr information on this small race from the northwestern 

 end of the range has been received. S. mearnsi liartsch, from 4 miles 

 .-outh of the internati<)nal boundary, a few miles east of the San Pedro 

 river, is another fortn which will probably j)rove to be closely allied 

 to gr<inulalissima and rourlli when the anatomy can be examined. 



Sonorella danielsi n. -p. PI. XIX, f\«n. \.i. 1 1. l.'.; |.l. XXI, fiKx. r,. 7. 



N. (frnniilnlissima (in part), Pil,.simv, Proc. A. N. S. P.. HK).5. p. 2«)3. pi. 18, 

 Iigs.:i9, H), 1 1 ;pl. 1 1 , fig. 10 (.Miller (•n.);iiI.so pi. IS, figs. 30, 37, :W (Id.'iCn.). 



'I'he shell is more depressed than granulatissima, yellow with a 

 '•onspicuous dark band without pale boidei-s, the early whorls flesh- 

 <*o|ored; surface glossy, the granulation of tiie last whorl ver>' weak, 



•Salvation Ridge forms the divide l)t«twocn lirown and Tanner Canyons on the 

 iiortlieast .sirleanflwhat we .Mupi)<)S4'd tf) Im- Salvation Camp Canyon on iho south. 

 We eollerted only on the ridg-, whieh is shown on tiie map at the he.idn of 

 I'rowii .'ind Tanner Canvon.s. 




50. 



PROCEEDINGS OF THK ACADEMY OF 



[Nov., 



nearly effaced, spiral incised lines well developed above the periphery. 

 Umbilicus wiiler than in gr<tmdatissima. 



Alt. 10, diani. 19 mm.; whorls 4\. 



The animal is slaty-blackish, the, back paler, brownish-gray, collar 

 of mantle dark slate. The sole is slate colored at the sides, the middle 

 gray, but the arca.s are not bounded by lines. Tlie lung haa faint 

 venation ; pulmonaiy vein breaking up into several large branches. 



V;^-; 



Fig. 3. Jaw and teeth of a cotype of Sonorella danielsi-. 



Genitalia. — The penis is xevy large, stout, subcylindric, half the 

 length of the vagina or longer. It collapses at the base, where not 

 filled by the papilla, :ind ha,s several strong longitudinal folds inside. 

 It contains a long cyhndric papilla which is abruptly truncate at the 

 end and wrinkled throughout. There is no liagellum. The long 

 vagina is rather slender throughout, with an annular swelling or node 

 about midway of its length. It is longitudinally rugose within, the 

 rugae coalescent at the node. Other organs as usual. Fig. 7 was 

 drawn from a drowned specimen which had not been in alcohol (No. 

 94,318). 



The jaw has six or seven veiy low, wide ribs, parted l)y narrow 

 intervals. The radula has about 47, 1, 47 teeth. In most rows the 

 fifteenth tooth has an ectocone. No marginal teeth with the ectocone 

 bifid were seen. The nineteenth tooth, in the radula figured, is abnor- 

 mal. One of the outer marginals is shown above it. 



Types No. 94,318 A. N. S. P., from head of Bear Canyon; also 

 Miller Peak and east fork of Cave Creek. 



Similar forms, but with the ground-color not yellow but pale brown 

 (as in granvlatissima) , occur in Ida Cany(jn, Cave Creek and Ash 

 Canyon (pi. XIX, fig. 18). 



This species replaces granulatissima on the south side and east end 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 503 



of the Huachuca range. It difTei"s from *S. granulatissima chiefly 

 in the genitalia, the larger penis and the shape of the vagina l^eing 

 constant features in the series of both species dissected. Specimens 

 have been dissected from five lots, from the head of Bear Canyon 

 (fig. 7), east fork of Cave, and from Miller Peak (fig. 5). One individ- 

 ual of several from the latter place seems to have the very minute 

 bud-like vestige of a flagellum. 



The shell will be recognized by its yellow, glossy surface and depressed 

 shape. The brownish forms from Ida and Ash Canyons, mentioned 

 above, require more study, with better fresh or alcoholic material than 

 we can command at this time. One from Ash Canyon is figured, fig. 18. 



Named in honor of Mr. L. E. Daniels, who accompanied Mr. Ferriss 

 in the expedition of 1907. 



Genus ASHMUNELLA I'ils. and Ckll. 



The Ashmunellas of the Iluaohuca range, while veiy diverse in 

 appearance, belong to a single closely related group. Probably all 

 descended from an ancestral stock not unlike A. levettei angigyra, the 

 most widely distnbuted form, and the one showing most aflinity to 

 species of the Cliiricahua and other ranges. The common ancestr\' 

 of the whole series is demonstrated l)y the intermediate stages found 

 among the shells, and by the soft anatomy, which is so much alike in 

 all that it would probably be impossible to tell the species aj)art 

 without the shells, yet differing characteristically from the soft parts 

 of all Ashmunellas of the Chiricaiuias or other ranges by the sacculated 

 or varicose spermatheca and the shape of the penis. 



The species and races form a Ijeautiful chain of variations, pretty 

 completely connecting tiiose having most complicated apertures with 

 those in whicji the aperture is tootliless, thus: hifurca—lcrdtci — 

 ursina — hetrrodonla — vancifera. 



Evolution has proceeded from fully toothed apertures towards 

 toothless apertures. In other words it has been rctrogn'--i\<' marked 

 by degeneration of complex structures. 



Snjt Annliwv/ of AshmiindUi.- Time lias nf)t admitlcil a full exami- 

 nation of the anatomy, but the genitalia of many individuals have been 

 studiwl. These organs are so .similar in all of the forms that one 

 (lescriptiori will sufTico. The penis (P.) is rather large for an Ash- 

 numella. Inside it has six unccjual fleshy longitudinal ridges, inter- 

 rupted in the middle (pi. X.\', fig. 6). This point is market! exter- 

 nally by a slight cf)nstriction. The epi[)hallus ((pi.) is \t»ry long, 

 terminating in a minute flagellum (/l.\ The retractor nmsclo (rp.) 




.-i04 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Nov., 



is attached to the epiphaUus, but sends down a band to the apex 

 of the penis. The vas deferens (vd.) is very lonjj; and free. The 

 vapna is sliort. Sperinatlieca (sp.) is not distinctly divided into 

 head aiul duct. The distal two-thirds or more is of about equal 

 calil)er, ami distinrth/ varicose or saccidatcd. The proximal portion 

 is a little contracted. This form of spermatheca is special to the 

 Huachucan species, and unlike those of other districts. The other 

 organs show no peculiar features. The dimensions of the organs in 

 millimetei's are as follows : 



Species. 



Epip- I I 



liallufl ' I |bperm-J Diam 



and H^^S^l" ^ ^" atlicca of 

 flagcl- l""i- j gi"a. and j shell. 



lum, . I duct. 



Mu- 

 seum 

 No. 



A.arigigifra, Ramsey Cn... 



A.angigjfra, east fork 



Salvation 



\ 



A. hi f urea. Tanner Cn < 



.1. ursina \ ( 



A.ursina, BearCn | 



.1 . heterodnnta , Cave Creek ' 



.1 . niicrodontd, Cave Creek 



-l. mnci/era, Wickersham ( ■ 

 Rock \\ 



5 



4.5 



7 



8 

 5 



7 

 S 



24 

 28 

 28 

 34 

 31 

 42 

 43 

 46 

 34 

 40 

 35 

 29 



1.3 

 1.5 



3 



4.5 



22 



13-14 I 83,269 



1.5 



1 



1.5 



1.8 



4 



4 



4 



3.5 



4 



5 



7.5 



5 



4 



??-^)l 94,396 



} 



28 

 26 

 32 

 24 

 26 

 27 

 25 



15 



16-18 



16 

 16 

 19 

 18 

 17 



94,388 



94,351 



94,349 

 94,350 

 94,347 

 94,340 

 94,341 



All tiie specimens were measured from alcoholic preparations except 

 A. levettei ursina,.94,M9, which was dissected fresh. 



The figures on plate XX represent the following species : 



.4. levettei iirsirui, No. 94,351, head of Bear Canyon (pi. XX, fig. 1). 

 A. levettei ursina, No. 94,349, head of Bear Canyon (pi. XX, fig. 4). 



Atrium protruding. 

 .1. /. anqifjyra, No. 83,269, Ramsey Canyon ; type lot (pi. XX, fig. 2). 

 .1. /. hcterodonta, No. 94,350, head of Cave Creek. 

 .1. microdonta, No. 94,347, head of Cave Creek; type lot (pi. XX, 



fig. 7). 

 .1. varicifera, No. 94,340 and 94.341, Miller Peak, Ash Canyon side 



(pi. XX, fig. 3). Atrium protruding. Fig. 6, the penis opened. 



Fig. 5, spermatheca of another individual. 




1909.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



505 



Ashmunella varioifera Ancey. Fig. 4. 



Pobigyra chiricahuana , in part, Dall, Proc. U. S. Xat. Mvis., XIX, pi. 32, 



figs. 9, 10, 12. 

 .1. chiricahuana var. varicifera Aiic, Journ. of Malacolog>', VIII, Sept. SO, 



1901 , p. 77 (near Tucson, Cox). .1 . /. helerodonta or chiricahuami, Pilsbrv, 



Proc. A. X. S. Phila., 190.5, p. 242, pi. lo, figs. 94, 9n. 



The shell is deprassed, the spire low, varying from convex to low- 

 conoidal, the periphery' of the last whorl situated above the middle, 

 obtasely subangular in front. Color i-ather light-brown and opaque; 

 or corneous-brown and somewhat transparent (sometimes pure white). 

 Sui-face rather glossy, lightly marked with growth-lines and faint 

 traces of incised spiral lines. Umbilicus rather narrow but open. 

 Aperture oblique, at about 45° with the axis. Peristome rather narrow, 



Fig. 4. Ashmttm^lla rnririfeni .Xnccy. 



refle.xed, recurved at the edge, having a low, indistinct thickening of 

 the iimer rim of the outer lip, and sometimes the very slight indication 

 of an outer basal tooth. 



At resting stages young shells form a callous thickening within the 

 lip, which shows through as a radial streak in some adult shells. 



Alt. S, diam. 101 to 17 mm. ; whorls 5V. 

 " 10^, " ISV " " 0. 



Soutii side of Miller ('anyf)n near its head; Wickoi-sliam Knck. .Miller 

 l*eak, and in the east fork of Cave Creek Canyon; also a mountain on 

 the south side of the mouth of Ash Canyon. These localities, except 

 the last, are indicated by three areas of vertical shading on the mn[). 

 Miller Peak is about 0,800 feet high. 



This species has nf)t been fully described before. The "varico^" to 

 which the name is due are onl}' occa-^^ionally present in a<lult shells. 

 They are also seen in A. chiricahuana, which is so similar that until 

 now the Chiricahuan and Huachucaji snails were supposed to belong 

 to one species. The soft anatomy shows at once that we have to do 

 with two .species. A. varicifera has genitalia exactly like A. Irvcttci 

 except tiiat the epii)hallus is somewhat shorter. 'I'lie spcnntttheca is 

 not differentiated from its duct, the whole fonn a long somewhat 

 33 




506 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Nov. 



varicose cylindric body, while in chiricahuana the duct is extremely 

 King, swollen at the end. The proportions vary widely in the two 

 species, as follows : 



A. varicifera. A. rliirintliuana 

 Length of penis, epiphallus and flagellum, 37 to 44 mm. 73 mm. 



Length of spermathcca and duct, . . . 25 to 27 " 50 " 



Length of vagina 4 to 5 " 9 " 



The size of the shells is about equal. It appears from this that 

 A. varicijera is a simpUfied member of the A. levcttei stock, while 

 A. chiricahuayia belongs to another group of species. 



The type locality of A. chiricahuana is Fly Park, Chiricahua Moun- 

 tains. 



Extract from Mr. Ferriss' Field Notes. — On the Cave Creek side we 

 found A. varicifera larger than the lot from Wickei-sham's Rock r)n 

 the peak, and generally albino. Out of one hole containing 29, only 

 two were dark colored. On the other side of the east fork of Cave Creek 

 they were larger but all dark. On the south side of the range there is 

 a strong tendency to albinism in the Ashmunellas, Sonorellas and 

 Oreohelix. 

 Ashmunella microdonta n. sp. Fig. 5. 



The shell re-semblas .4. varicifera in general appearance, but differs 

 by having fewer whorls, the last wider \'iewed from above; umbilicus 

 much \\'ider, exposing more of the penultimate whorl. The lip is 

 toothless except for a very low vestige in the basal margin in some 

 specimens; but there is a minute tubercular parietal tooth in over 



Fig. 5. Asmunella microdonta. Cotype. , 



half of those examined, while it is perceptible as a faint thickening 

 in all. The shell is chestnut colored, usually with one or two varix- 

 streaks on the ba.se; Hp white or with its upper half reddish-brown, 



Alt 9.5 8.6 8.8 8.2 mm. 



Diam 20 19 19 17 " 



Whorls 5.V 5i 5^ 5 J " 




I 



1909.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



507 



Cave Creek Canyon, for one-eighth of a mile at the head. 



This is another modification of the levettei stock, differing from 

 heterodonta and varicifera by its wider imibilicus and less closely coiled 

 whorls, from the former by deficient lip teeth, and from the latter l)y 

 the usual presence of a minute parietal tooth. In genitalia it does not 

 difTer from typical levettei. While not conspicuously differentiated, 

 we have thought it well to give the form specific rank. 



Ashmunella levettei heterodonta Pil^- Fig. G. 



Proc. A. X. S. Pliila., IW."), 241. pi. 1.',, 

 p. 51. 



5. 81-91. Nautihis, XVII I 



Tliis form has the shape of .1. levettei, and typically has a low, 

 straight-topped tooth within the outer lip, a small tubercular tooth 

 at junction of outer and basal margins, and a faint prominence in the 

 position of an inner basal tooth. The parietal tooth is minute or 

 wanting. There are barely over 6 whorls, which therefore arc a little 

 wider than in A. levettei. 



AVe have elsewhere notetl the extreme variability of the teeth in 

 heterodonta. They may be much more developed than descrilicd above, 

 or so degenerate that only faint traces of teeth are discernible. A 

 form-chain connecting levettei and varicifera exists. "Whether hybrid- 

 ism plays a part here remains uncertain. 



Fig. 0. .\ithm\inella levettei hrlrrodontn. ('oty[x\ 



This form occurs in the heads of Ida and Cavi; Canyons. In one 

 place hclirodnntn goes over the divide two or three hundred feet, but in 

 no other case do these species cross to the other side of the range. 

 A. levettei or heterndontn arc not foimd in vfiririfrrn territory. There is 

 no mingling of Ashmunella^ except large and small forms of J eveilci. 

 The peculiarities of habit, variation, etc., of the Ashmunellas, r)ref)- 

 helices, etc., is worthy of a years study in the II»iachuca«. The area 



I 




50S 



PROCEEDINGS OF THK ACADEMY OF 



[Nov., 



of hclerodonfa is marked H on the map. Cave ("reek Canyon, like that 

 of the same name in the Chiricahua laiijio, has a lai'iro basin and many 

 l)ranch(>«. 



Ashmunella levettei ursina ". sulisp. fIk. 7. 



.1. Irrctlti rilshn , I'roc. A. N. S. Pliila., 190'). p. 2:i.S, pi. 15, figK>. 72-78. 

 The shell is Uke ,1. levettei, capacious and glossy. The aperture is 

 less <il)structed by the teeth. The parietal tooth is smaller, straight, 

 not curving inward at the axial end, or almost imperceptibly so, and 

 without an outer braneh running towards the uppei- insertion of the lip, 

 Alt. 9. diam. IS, diam. aperture 8.5 mm.; whorls fully 6^. 

 ■' 7. J '■ 1() mill. : whorls 6J. 



I'ijI. 7. A.slnnnncllti leretlei iirsinii. Typf 



Head of Hear Canyon, about 7,500 feet elevation. Tyj)es No. 

 S7.0S9 A. N. 8. P. It also occui-s in the head of Miller Canyon. In 

 liear Canyon there are many beautiful all)ino specimens, occurring 

 with othei's of the normal chestnut color. The range of ursina lies 

 westward from that of heterodonla. 



This is the race formerly rcferro;! by u-^ to typical .1. levettei. 



Ashmanella levettei (Blan<l). Fig. 8. 



Triodnpsis lereltei Hland. Annuls of the New York .Academy of Scicnrf.s. II, 

 1H82, p. 11.5, cuts. Binnev, Manual of American Land SIipIIs. p. .385, 

 fig. 410. Gratarap, liuU. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., XIV, p. 383. 



The type specimen of this species (fig. 8) was supposed to come from 

 Santa Fe Canyon, New .Me.xico, but it is distinctly of Huachucan type. 

 The perii)hery is rounded. The glos.sy surface is marked with fine 

 growth-wrinkles, and on the last whorl very fine and very faint spiral 

 lines. The parietal callus is distinct, but thin at the edge. The 

 I>arietal tooth is long, high, straight, but at the axial end it becomes 

 low and curves strongly inward. From the distal end of the tooth a 




1909.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



aOU 



low l)ut tlistiiict branch runs tuwarcls the outer termination <»t tlic lip 



This l)ranch is brownish, like the callus 



it rests upon, hence mipiht ea.'^ily be 



overlooked. The outer lip-tooth is 



slightly eniarginate at the top, and 



curves inward. Tlic outer basal tooth 



is compressed and larger than the inner 



one. which is also somewhat compresseil. 



Alt. 8, diam. 16 mm.; diam. of aper- 

 ture 7.9 mm.; whorls V)\. 



Description and figure from the tj^pe 

 specimen, Xo. 1,274 of the liinney and 

 liland Collection, American Museum of 

 Natural Histor}', New ^'o^k. \Ve owe 

 tlie opportunity of studying this speci- 

 men to the kindness of Dr..L. P.Gratacap. 



Some specimens from Miller Canyon 

 are identical in characters with the type 

 <^{leretlei. It probably was collected in 

 that canyon. 



In Carr Canyon there is a similar 

 race having some differential charactei"s. 

 Dr. Henry Skinner collected a series of 

 several iumdred shells. They were 

 taken about mid\va\' of tlic canyon a.s 

 sh;)wn in the map. 'i'hcsc shells \aiy 

 i;i si/.f: 



-Vlt. ti. diam. \'-\ nun. : u Iimi'm (i',. 

 •• 7 •• i;; " •• ()'. 



" 7..') '■ )•') •' diam. aperture 7 nun. ; whorls (i^. 



The last whorl is lathci- (le|)resse(l and periphery' is slightly angular 

 in front, these being the main differences from typical .1. Icnltci. In 

 some specimens the shape (»f the aperture and of the parietal tooth is 

 exactly a.s in IcvcUei, but most examples have the aperture smaller, 

 the li|)-ends approaching somewhat more, and connected by tin* Ihirk- 

 cnefl edge of the jiarietal callus. The parietal tooth almost always 

 is recurved at the axial end, and bears a more or less distinct recurrent 

 branch from the distal end, as in Icrrttvi. in some examples, however, 

 the parietal tooth is straight and there is no perceptible outer l^ranch; 

 the upper margin of the lip descends more deeply on the parietal wall 

 than in the type of Icvettei. '\ho young snails form a very thick li[)- 

 callus at resting stages. 



•ig. .S. Ashniuiullii Uritlci 

 (Bhiii(l). Type six'cimcn. 




510 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Nov., 



Thi>j Can- Canyon race is iiitennccliate between typical levdtei and 

 hifurco. 



Ashmunella levettei bifurca ". .-uhsp. 



In TaniiPi- Canyon the shells resemble those of Carr Canyon. They 

 are glo-ssy, dark chestnut colored, depressed, the last whorl anf^ular 

 in front. The aperture is small, the lip-ends connected by a distinct, 

 often heavy parietal cord. The outer lip-tooth is pushed farther back 

 into the mouth. The parietal tooth curves inWard at its axial end, and 

 usually gives off a distinct branch from the distal end, though this 

 may be weak or wanting in some examj)les. The vnubilicus is usually 

 wider than in other forms of levettei. The whorls coil closely. 



Fig. 9. Ash))i>nifna levettei bifurca. Typo. 



Alt. 6.6. diam. lo, diam. of aperture 6.9 mm., whorls fully 6^. 



This race is intensified in the development of apertural teeth. 

 .4. mearnsi (Dall) is more depressed and ha-s less numerous, less closely 

 coiled whorls. 



The spermatheca is more slender, scarcely sacculate or less con- 

 spicuously so than in other Huachucan species, and is a little enlarged 

 towards the end, the lower part of the duct slender. 

 Ashmunella levettei angigyra Pil^. 



Proc. .\. .\. S. riiila., 190.5, p. 240, pi. 14, fig.s. 47-54 (.sIk-II); pi. 21, fig. 28 

 (genitalia); pi. 22, fig. 12 (teeth); pi. 23, fig. 14 (jaw). 



Smaller, more depressed than levettei, and more or less angular at 

 the peripliery. teeth contracting the aperture more. 



The types, described and illustrated a.s above cited, were from 

 Ramsey Canyon (called "Conservatory Canyon" in the original 

 paper). Tiiose from northwestward and along the warm diy slopes 

 of the ridge are more typical of the race, being smaller and more 

 angular. The parietal tooth is straight and rather small, without an 

 outer branch. It occurs along the northeastern side of the range from 

 northwest to southeast as follows : Babokomari Creek; Fort Huachuca; 

 Tamier Canyon, over the range, west fork, and along cliffs south of 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 511 



the canyon; Brown's Canyon; Limestone Mountain, 9.000 feet; 

 Ranisey Canyon; also over the range on the foothills of Bear Canyon at 

 about 5.000 feet, where it is very widely separated from other known 

 locaUties, and veiy small, diam. 9.5 to 11 mm. 



The race from Carr Canyon is intermediate between angigyra and 

 levettei in size and shape of the last whorl. The examples from Lime- 



Fig. 10. Ashmunella levettei angigyra. Cotype. 



stone Mountain and Salvation Ridge approach those of Carr Canyon 

 in size and apertural teeth, and would probably be grouped with that 

 race rather than with typical angigyra, if the two be separable. 



.4. /. angigyra is the common and widely distributed Ashmunella 

 of the Huachucas. The other forms are very local. 



The epiphallus is curiously flattened, dumbbell-shaped in section 

 in several individuals (alcoholic) from east fork of Salvation Canyon, 

 and the lower part of the spermatheca duct is slender. 



Ashmunella mearnsi (Dall). 



I'ohjyyrfi mcfirn.si Dall, Prof. U. S. Nat. Mils., X\III. Is!)."), p. 2 (Hachita 

 Grande and Huacliuca .Mountains); XIX, 1890, p. .343, pi. 32, figs. 7, S, 11. 



This species was descril^ed as from two widely separated localities. 

 It diffei-s from all other Iluachucan species by having fewer, less closely 

 coiled whorls. In these features it Ixjlongs to a small group of forms 

 from southwestern New Mexico, composed of A. walkeri Fcrriss and 

 A. kochi Clapp. We have much to learn about the snails of these 

 alluring desert moimtains, but it seems likely that there was a mistake 

 in the locality Huachuca Mountains, and that the species really came 

 from the Ilacheta Grande .Mountains only. 



Genu.". OREOHELIX I'ilnbry. 



The Iluachucan Oreohelices have been described and illu-'t rated 

 a^ fully as possible to u.s in the first paper of this series. 

 Oreoheliz strigosa concentrata (l>all). 



Carr Canyon, 7,(K)0 feet ; J>imestone Mountain, 8,0<)0 feet ; Miller Peak, 

 Ash Canyon. The shells from Miller Peak are rather openly umbilicate 




512 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [X(»V., 



ami liavo a pociiliar faciei. Some greenish-white oncy rcmiiul oiio of 

 Circinaria conrnvo. 



Oreohelix strigosa huaohuoana (Pil>.). 



l\aiu-i\v. Hiitwii. Carr, Miller, Cave Creek and Ida Canyons; north 

 side of Miller Peak. 



Genu. THYSANOPHORA Stn.l.el. 

 Thysanophora hornii (ciabb). 



Manilla mine, near the northwest end of the range. 



UROCOPTIDiE. 

 Holospira ferrissi I'lU 



Manilla mine, near the northwest end of the range. The locality 

 Fort Bowie, formerly cited by us, was an error. 



LIMACID^. 

 Agriolimax hemphilli ashmuni Pilsl)ry and Vanatta. 

 Xautihis, XXII, p. 108. 



Limaces are rare in Arizona, but Mr. Ashnum took specimens at 

 Nogales, Pima county, 4,000 ft. elevation, and they were found by one 

 of us in Miller, Brown and Tanner Canyons in the Huachucas. 



These slugs belong to the very widely distributed group of Agrio- 

 limax kevis, but we have not been able to refer them directly to any 

 described race. By the development of entocones on the lateral teeth 

 they differ from A. campestris (including montanus Ing.), and agree 

 with A. hemphilli (Binney),^ A. stenurns (Strebel)* and A. berendti 

 (Strebel).® Whether the.se forms are specifically distinct or not 

 remains to be determined. Their distinctive characters do not seem 

 important. 



The alcoholic specimens from Miller Canyon have the genei-al aspect 

 externally of A. campestris. The rounded back is black, flanks sooty 

 brown. The mantle is large, and more than half of it is free, so that 

 when lifted and turned back it more than covei-s the posterior adnate 

 portion. Under it the surface is yellowish. The sole is very narrow, 

 conspicuously tripartite. The central tooth is tricuspid. Laterals 

 have a small entocone elevated on the side of the mesocone; ectocone 



' Limax hemphilli W. G. Binney. Third Supplement to Terrestrial Mollusks, 

 V, 1890, p. 201, pi. 1, fig. 13; pi. 2, fig. 3; pi. 8, fig. e (Julian City, Cal.). Fourth 

 Supplement, p. 166, pi. 3, fig. 1 (var. pictus Ckll., San Toma.s River, L. Cal.). 



' lAmax stenuruH Strebel, Beitrag Mex. Land und Stisswasser Conchyl., IV, 

 1880, p. 21 (State of Vera Cruz, Mexico). 



• Ldmax berendti Strebel, t. c, p. 22 (Coban, Guatemala). Cf. also L. jalapensis 

 Strebel, /. c. 




1909.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



513 



well developed. There are 13 lateral teeth, the 13th beiiiji; transiticuial 

 to the marginals, wliich are simple, thorn-shaped. Jaw a.s usual. 

 The peiii.'^ is large, much twisted, terminates in an obtuse "Hagellum" 

 or blind sack, and it has a fleshy sensoiy j)apilhi in the anterior enlarge- 

 ment, shown by dotted lines in fig. 8 c. In front of this enlargement 

 it is very slender. It has an extremely .slender letractor muscle 

 (p.r.). Other organs as usual in the group. 

 Examples from Tanner Canyon have the same genitalia. Ijut differ 



Fig. 11. Aifrii)liniax /icmi)fttlli (islntuini. «, fc, aliiiifiitary canal and ^rinitalia of a 

 specimen from Nogale.'^. r, genitalia of tlie type from .Miller ("any(>ii. 



in external colitr. They arc pale soiled buff, witli a slightly daikcr 

 reticulation buck of the mantle, which is closely flecked with gray. 

 These slugs are therefore not unlike A. hrm])hiUi pidus Tkll. 



According to Mr. Biinicy. .1. hcmphilli has 50, 1, .50 teeth with 10 

 laterals. This is somewhat unlike our slug, which has luorc lateral 

 teeth, though of the same shape; moreover, the penis of .1. ficni/ilnlli 

 seems to dilTer from the .Arizona form, which occurs in a region other- 

 wise wholly diverse in its mollusk poi)ulation. A. slrnmus and 

 A. bircndti of Strel)el behuig to thetroi)ical fauna. Since the. Arizona 

 form diff"ers mateiially in dentition from the do^cribed alpine slugs of 

 Colorado, wo have thought it safest to give a special name tn the 

 mountain >lug of .Arizona, until such time a.s the several forms can be 

 actually compared l)y some observer, and their relations to one 

 another elucidated. 



The types of .1. hrmphiUi (ishmuni are \o. *.>},.■>»)♦) A. N. S. ]'., frdUi 

 Miller Canyon, Huachuca .Mountains. 



ENDODONTID^. 



Pyramidula (Oonyodiiouii oronkhitei (N>wc.) 



Wickcrsham's, Miller Peak; Carr Canyon. 




514 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



Pyramidula (Gonyodisous) shimeki cookerelli Tils. 



-Reef;" Can- Canyon, at 5,000 feet (C. R. Biederman). 



Radiodisons millecostatus VH». and Ferr. 



Can- Canyon; Miller Peak, near the top and on tlie north side, and » 



in Wickei-sham'.s Gulch; Wickci-sham'.s. 

 Helioodisous eigenmanni arizonensis Pils. ami Ferr. 



Found in 1904, no special locality recorded. t 



ZONITID^. 

 Zonitoides arborea (Say). 



Wicker-shani's Rock, Miller Peak; Tanner Canyon; Ash Canyon. 

 Zonitoides minascnla (Rinn.). 



Wickersham's, Miller Peak; Tanner Canyon; Benson. 

 Zonitoides minuscula alachuana (Dall). 



A-^h Canyon; Wicker.sham's. 

 Zonitoides milium meridionalis Pils. and Ferr. 



Wickersham's. 

 Vitrea indentata umbilicata (Ckll.). 



Tanner Canyon; Wickersham Gulch; Miller Canyon, one very large 

 example, diam 6.7 mm.; Asli Canyon. 



Eaconulus fulvas alaskensis Pils. 



Wickersham's rock, Miller Peak. 

 Vitrina alaskana Dall. 



Wickersham's, Miller Peak. 



SUOOINEID^ 

 Succinea avara Say. 

 Tanner and Ash Canyons. 



VALLONIIDuSJ. 



Vallonia perspeotiva Sterki. 



Tanner, Pine and Ash Canyons ; Wickersham's, Miller Peak, 

 Vallonia cyclophorella .\ncey. 

 Wickersham's, Miller Peak. 



PUPILLID^.'o 

 Papilla hebes (Ancey). 



Wickersham's, Miller Canyon. 



"* Pupoides hordacea (Gabb) and Pupilla syngenes (Pils.) were found in rivei 

 drift at Benson. Of the latter both dextral and sinLstral shells, one of each. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 515 



Bifidaria quadridentata Sterki. 



^\'ickersham's, Miller Canyon. One specimen. 



Bifidaria ashmani Sterki. 

 A<li Canyon. 



Bifidaria cochisensis Pils. and Ferr. 



Tanner Canyon, abundant. This form and the following will be 

 described in the next paper of tliis series, in connection with a general 

 review of the group of B. ashmuni. 



Bifidaria ooohisensis oligobasodon Pil*. and Ferr. 



Ash Canyon, 



Bifidaria pilsbryana Sterki. 



Wickershani's, Miller Peak. 



Bifidaria tappaniana (C. B. .\d.). 



Tanner Canyon, 6,000 feet; also San Pedro drift at Benson." 



Vertigo ovata Suy. 



-\sh Canyon; Tanner Canyon, 0,000 feet; also San Pedro drift at 

 13cnson. 

 Vertigo modesta parietalis Anc 



Wickcrsham's, Miller Peak. 

 Vertigo concinnula < kll. 



Wickei-sham's, Miller Peak; one immature shell. 

 Vertigo milium fWd. 



Tanner Canyon, 0,000 feet; drift of .San Pedro river ;it IWmi<oii. 



FERUS3ACID^. 

 Cochlicopa lubrioa (.Mull.). 



Ttiimcr Canyon, 0.000 feet; Carr Canyon; Wickcrsham's, .Miller Peak 



LYMN^ID^. 



Lymnsa parva I^*-". 



Ash Canyon; a few very young specimens. 



PHYSID^. 



Physa virgata 'ii 1- 



Small, slender, long-spire<l examples, cleady of the vinjnla typo, were 

 taken in Tanner Canyon, in a spring at about (iOOO fi. 



" Bifidaria peniodon (Say) was taken in San r.<lr.. .Iriil .it IVn.son, Cochise 

 countv, .Vrizona. 




516 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov.,. 



AMNICOLID^. 

 Paludestrina stearnsiana PiU 



-•V^li Canyon, one bleat-hed specimen; spring in Tinnier Canyon. 

 numerous living examples. 



PELECYPODA. 

 Fisidium abditam huachucanam Pila. luul Ferr. 



Stream in Carr Canyon (C. R. Biederman, type loc); spring in Carr 

 Canyon, 7,000 feet ; springs in Tanner Canyon at 6,000 and 7,000 feet; 

 spring at tlie mouth of Ash Canyon, 4,500 feet; artificial pond at the 

 mouth of Hunter Canyon, 4,500 feet (L. E. Daniels, October, 1907). 



This is, we believe, the only Pisidium recorded from Arizona. 



I'lxPI-AXATlON OF PlATES XIX TO XXI. 



Plate XIX.— Fiojs. 1 , 2. 'iSonorella dalli Bartsch. Tanner Canyon. 

 Figs. 4, .3, () — Sonorelln grnnulatisshna latior Pils. Cotypes. 

 Figs. 7, 8 — Sonorelln granulntissimd Pils. Cotypes. 

 Fig. 9 — Snnorellu gromilati'<situ(i Pils. Miller Canyon. 

 Pigs. 10, 11, 12 — Sonorella granulatissinia jxirva Pils. Cotypes. 

 Figs. 13, 14, 1.5 — Sonorella danielsi Pils. and Ferr. Cotypes. 

 Fig. 16 — Sonorella hnachucana Pils. Bear Canyon. 

 Fig. 17 — Sonorella hnachucana Pils. Type. 



Fig. IS — Sonorella danielsi P. and F., l)rown variety. Aish Canvon, No. 

 94,385. 



Plate XX.— Fig. l—Ashnmnella levettei ursina Pils. and Ferr. No. 94,351. ||j 



Fig. 2 — Ashmunella I. angigyra Pils. No. 83,269. 

 Fig. 3 — AshmunelUi varicifera Anc. No. 94,341. 

 Fig. 4 — Ashmunella levettei ursina P. and F. No. 94,349. Atrium and ends 



of penis and vagina protruding. 

 Fig. 5 — Ashmunella varicifera Anc. Spermatheca of anotlicr individual. 

 Hg. 6 — Ashmunella varicifera Anc. Penis opened. 

 I'ig. 7 — Ashmunella microdonta Pilsbry and Ferriss. No. 94, .347. One of 



the cotypes. 



Plate XXI. — Fig. 1 — Sonorella granulatissima Pils. No. 83,257. Cotype. 

 Fig. 2 — Ditto. PenLs opened to show papilla. 

 Fig. 3 — Ditto. Penis, epiphallas and flagellum. 

 Fig. 4— Ditto. No. 94,336. Miller Canyon. 

 Fig. 5 — Sonorella danielsi Pilsbry and Ferriss. No. 94,337. 

 Fig. 6 — Sonorella danielsi Pilsbry and PY-rriss. No. 94,318. Type. 

 Fig. 7 — Sonorella g. latior Pils. No. 94,387. Tanner Canyon." 



Plate XXII. ^Figs. 1, 2, 3 — Sonorella rinconensis Pils. and Ferr. Central, 

 lateral and marginal teeth. 

 Fig 4 — Sonorella rinconensis. Type, genitalia. X 2. 

 Fig. 5 — Sonorella dalli Hartscii. "No. 94, .384, genitalia. X 2. 

 Fig. 6 — Sonorella dalli Bartsch. Jaw. 




1909.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



517 



A NEW SONORELLA FEOM THE EIKCOK MOUNTAINS ARIZONA. 

 HV H. A. I'lL.^llKV and .1. H. i'KKKlSS. 



The Rincon Mountains lie near the western border of. Cocliise County, 

 Arizona, north of the Whetstone .Moinitains. which are north of the 

 Huachuca range. 



In 1907 one of us (Mr. Ferriss) visitetl the range and procured 

 -specimens of a large SonorcUa, the first mollusk known from these 

 mountains. 



Fig. 1. Sonorelln rinconensis. C/otypes, nut. .xizi-. 



Where visited the range is rather dry. The rock is granitic, of 

 })rc-Caml)rian age. ' Besides Snnordla rincotunsis only a few shells 

 were taken, minute forms common to the region. SonorcUa rincon- 

 ffi.si.s was found sticking to large rocks and bouldei-s. a habit not 

 hitherto noticed in the genus. Tliey are rare, the biggest bag made 

 being six in one day. 



Sonorella rinconensis n -p. PI. .X.XII. figs. 1-4, 7. 



The >hcll rc-semblcs N. dshniimi Rart«ch in sjiape. It is j)ale brown 

 fading to white around the umbilicus, with a broad chocolate shoulder- 

 band, widely whitish-bordered above and below. The surface is 

 smo(tthish, marked with delicate growth-lines, and luuicr the lens .^omc 

 faint spiral lines may be traced on the last whorl near the suture. The 

 embryonic whorls have sculpture of the S. hnchitond ty|)o. The 

 whorls increase rather slowly to the last, which is much widened, and 

 well rounded penpherally. It descends a little in front. The af)er- 

 ture is rotund-lunate; penstome slightly r\pandc«|. dilafrd al the 

 fohunella as usual. I'mbilicus about :us in N. a.slimum. 



Ah. Hi, diam. 20.'}, width of un)bili»-us -J nim.;wh(trls fully .'). 



The penis is extremely long and slender, and c«»ntains a very long 

 papilla. Its lower end is enveloped in a sheath. The retractor 



' Cf. W. P. Blakp. Some SahVnt Krntiin'H in the Geology of .Vrizonn, with 

 Kvidfiifcs of Shallow Sf;i.« in I'lih-nzoir- Tiiin-, Amirlrnti drnlmjist, \'u\. 27. I!K)1, 

 p. liV). 




51S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [XoV. , 



muscle is inserted distally on the lun.^-floor, as usual. The vajrina is 

 excessively long, loiiuer than the penis, and of alwut equal diameter 

 throughout (slightly over 1 mm.). The spermatheca is globular, its 

 duct much shorter than the vagina. The organs of an individual 

 drowned and dissected fresh measure as follows: 



Length of penis 55 mm. 



" " papilla :n 



'' " sheath, 7 



" epiphallus, 22 



'' flagellum, 1.2 " 



" vagina, 70 



" " spermatheca and duct, 31 " 



The liver is maroon colored when fresh. 



Types No. 94,313 A. N. S. 1\, from Rincon Peak, Rincon Mountains, 

 Cochise County, Arizona; cotypes in coll. Ferriss. Specimens were 

 also taken on Mt. Mica and Wrong Mountain, Rincon range. 



The jaw (pi. XXII, fig. 7) has six or seven strong ribs, projecting 

 on both margins. 



The radula has 26. 15, 1, 15, 26 teeth (pi. XXTI, figs. 1, 2, 3). The 

 central and lateral teeth are unicuspid, the cusps stout and obtuse, 

 longer than the basal plates. At about the sixteenth tooth an ectocone 

 appears. Towards the outer edge of the radula the inner cusp Ijecomes 

 bifid; and in many but not all of the outermost six or eight marginals 

 the ectocone is spUt into two or three denticles (fig. 3). 



Conchologically this form stands very close to >S'. ashmuni Bartsch, 

 from Ricliinbar, south of Prescott, Arizona; also found at Jerome, and 

 at PurtjTnan's ranch on Oak Creek, 40 miles from Jerome. It would 

 probably be scarcely possible to separate the two species by the shells 

 alone. The genitalia, however, are widelj^ divei-se. *S'. ashmuni 

 (Oak Creek) has genitalia of the type found in ^c/w'tona-Uke Sonorel- 

 las of the Peloncillo, Florida and Dos Cabezas ranges, while S. rinconcn- 

 sis has the penis and vagina excessively lengthened While quite 

 unlike any known form, it seems nearer to S. virilis than to other species 

 which have been dissected, but differs from that by its far shorter 

 penis-papilla and by the vagina, which is much longer than the penis, 

 while in S. virilis the penis is longer. 



Plate XXII. — Figs. 1, 2, 3 — Sonorella rinconensis Pils. and Ferr. Central 

 lateral and marginal teeth. 

 Fig. 4 — Sonorella rinconensis. Tj^je, genitalia. X 2. 

 Fig. 5— Sonorella dalli Bartsch. No. 94,384, genitalia. X 2 

 Fig. 6 — Sonorella dalll Bartsch. Jaw. 

 Fig. 7 — Sonorella rinconensis. Jaw. 

 Fig. 8 — Sonorella dalli. Teeth. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 519 



MELANIID5: OF THE PANUCO KIVEK SYSTEM. MEXICO. 

 BY H. A. PILSBRY and A. A. HIXKLEY. 



The Pachycheili of the Panuco River system are all, so far as kno"\vn. 

 special to that drainage. ^ These waters are remarkably rich in fine 

 species, which though not so large as some from Central America, are 

 more varied in shape and sculpture. In a few species the spire is so 

 short that the shell has a globular or oval shape, hke Anculosa or 

 Paludomus; yet in the structure of the aperture and operculum these 

 aberrant forms agree \nth more normal species of the same region. 

 One species, P. pleurotoma, has a Pleurotomoid sinus in the outer lip, 

 somewhat like that of P. dalli Pils., but .situated farther up. 



The whole group of the Panuco drainage differs from the southern 

 forms of Pachychcilus in the weakness or absence of the regular and 

 close microscopic spiral striation cliaracteiistic of the typical species. 



The shells are generally abundant. Of most of the forms several 

 hundred shells at least of each species have been examined. All were 

 collected by Mr. Ilinkley during the past winter. The descriptions 

 are the joint work of both authors. The figures are natural .size. 

 Cotypes of the new forms are in the collccti:)ns of the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia and of Mr. Ilinkley. 



Since many of the localities mentioned herein are not indicated 

 on majxs availal)le in this countiy, we give here a .sketch of the lower 

 portion of the Panuco River System. * 



' It is possible that P. plurifdrinluft is an pxrpptioii, but the record of that 

 .species from a West Mexican hike .secm.s iiiipr(il);il>ie. 



' Ix)calities where niolluf^ca were collected (luriiig the winter of HKtS and l'.K»'.» 

 are marked on the niaj) with nimierals. These nunilx'red stations are as follows: 

 No. 1. Laliarra. 



" 2. Tanipico. 



" .3. ('av«- from which the Choy River issues. 



" 4. T.-minnl, flac .statir)n for Hot Spring. 



" .'i. Hot Spring:. 



" ft. Catanuus Lake. 



" 7. Piijal Lake. 



" S. Kl A bra. 



" 9. Valles .'Station. 



" 10. Vallew. 



" n. Small f;dl.s of the Vallet* Hiv.-r. 



" 12. Ranch of .Mr. \Villi.s. 



" 1.1. Chaiini <'reek. ^ 



" 11. I'uj.il, I'lij.il ferry and font. 



" 1.5. Ford or lerrv of the Coy River. 



'■ 16. Alligator Lake. 



" 17. First rill in the mountains south of Valles. 




520 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACAOKMY OF 



[N..V., 



FiCO 1 



Fig. 1 . -Map oi a portion ot the Paiiuco Kivcr system, sliowing localities mentioned 



in this paper. 



No. 18. Second rill in the mountains. 



19. Tampamolon. 



20. Ford and ferry of Moctezuma River. 



21. Creek near the ford of Moctezuma River. 



22. Tancanhutz. 



23. Clioy ranch. 



24. Tasas Viejas River. 

 2.5. ("oxcantlan. 



26. Mecos (Micos) and Mecos falls. 



27. Rapids above Mecos. 



28. Lagoon five miles west of Mecos. 



29. Lagoon between mountains, no outlet. 



30. HlufTs north of San Dieguito. 



31. San Dieguito. 



32. Cave. 



33. Bluff southwest of San Dieguito. 



34. Ganina River. 

 3o. Tributary of Ganina River. 



36. Ra-scon. 



37. Tamosopo. 



38. Mill of Tamosopo Sugar Co. 



39. Natural Bridge and Verastagu. 



40. Canyon. 



41. Las Canoas. 



According to the railroad map, the elevation of Valles is about 200 feet above 

 the sea; El Abra, 700 feet; Mecos, over 1,000 feet; Tamosopo, 1,300 feet; Los 

 Canoas, 3.300 feet. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 521 



Pachycheilus pila n. sp. PI. XXIV, figs. 1-5. 



The shell is solid and strong, irregularly globose, black, smooth 

 but for inconspicuous growth-lines (except the very young shells 

 which are delicately, closely striate spirally); spire very short, mainly 

 eroded in adult shells, but concavely acuminate when preserved in the 

 young. Only 2 or 3 whorls remain in adult shells, the last very globose 

 throughout, more or less flattened below the suture near the aperture. 

 The aperture is large, black within; outer Hp thin, much more arcuate 

 than the inner Up, which is onVy slightly arcuate. Columellar margin 

 heavily calloused throughout, black, with a white lining on the inner 

 border. 



Length 19, diam. IQ\ mm., longest axis of aperture 13 mm. 

 20, " 15^ " " " " 13 " 



19, " 17 " aperture 13^x12^ nmi. 



20, " 17 '^ " 13 X 10 mm. 



Tamosopo River above and below the "Natural Bridge,'' near 

 Verastagu, State of San Luis Totosi, Mexico. 



The water in the basin above the bridge is in constant agitation, 

 caiLsed by tiie falls of several small streams feeding it and the narrow 

 outlet, so there are several inches of the rock walls alternately covered 

 and exposed. The positions occupied by the different species of 

 Pachycheilus were quite divei-se, the P. pila always l)eing submerged, 

 wliile P. alralus and humerosus were higher up and often entirely 

 beyond tlie reach of the water. Below the bridge P. pila was on 

 submerged rocks, wiiile tiie other species were most jjientiful at or near 

 the surface. 



This is the shortest, most globose species of Pavfiychrilus known, 

 having the contour of an Anculosa or Paluflomus. The youngest stage 

 examined is about 2 mm. long, at which time the shape is ovate-conic. 

 At 5i mm. long, with the spire of 5 whorls still perfect, the htst whorl 

 has become inflated, and traces of very fine delicate spiral striie 

 remain. The types (pi. XXIV, figs. 1 to 5) are from below the "Nat- 

 ural Bridge." Some examples apparently adult are smaller than the 

 dimensions given above, alt. 13J, diam. 13 nun. 



Specimens from a tributary of the Tamosopo River at the Tamosopo 

 Sugar Company's plantation are all smaller. Specimens measure: 



Length 14, diam. 12, length f)f aporturo 9 mm. 

 12, "11, " " S.s " 



Example.^ from a rill on the mountain side above the banana planta- 

 tion at the "Natural Bridge" are ver}' small, adults measuring 8 to 11 

 34 




522 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov... 



mm. long. Tliis small race might be distinguished as P. pila piMa 

 n. var. (pi. XXIV, fig. 6). 



Paohyoheilus tristis n. sp. PI. XXIV, figs. 7-10. 



The shell is short, ovate, brown, the last whorl smooth when adult. 

 Spire conic but deeply eroded in adults, rarely showing more than 

 3 whorls distinctly. The last whorl is convex. Aperture bluish-white 

 inside. Outer margin thin, strongly arched, forming half a circle; 

 inner margin shghtly arcuate, heavily calloused, white throughout 

 or with a brown edge. 



The neanic stage, length 10-11 mm., is conic with an elevated spire 

 sculptured ^ith spiral carinse, 3 on each whorl of the spire, one ridge 

 being just below the suture, another below the middle, and the third 

 just above the succeeding suture. On the last whorl there are 4 or 5 

 spiral ridges, the lowest one weak, below the periphery. Subsequently 

 the whorls become more inflated and the spiral sculpture weakens, 

 either disappearing in the penultimate whorl or a single subsutural 

 ridge and sulcus may persist until the beginning of the last whorl. 



Length 21, diam. 13.7 mm.; aperture 11.5 x 9 mm, 

 20, " 14 " " 11.2 X 9.2" 



23.5, " 16 " " 12.5x10 " 



16.2, " 12.5 " " 9.5 X 8 " 



Tamasopo River at the "Natural Bridge," near Verastagu, State of 

 San Luis Potosi. Very few found above the bridge, but quite plentiful 

 below. 



Adult shells of tliis species resemble P. pila in shape, but they differ 

 by the brown color, bluish-white aperture and white columella. Old 

 shells which have lost most of the spire by erosion are hard to dis- 

 tinguish from P. pila. The characters of the young are wholly diverse, 

 and show P. tristis to he related to P. humerosus and /"*. atratus. Com- 

 pared with P. humerosus, P. tristis differs in lacking a shouldered last 

 whorl, the more ovate shape and the color. It differs from P. atratus 

 in shape, sculpture and color. 



Pachycheilus moctezumenBis n. sp. PI. XXIV, figs. 11, 12. 



The shell is globose-oval, sohd, purpUsh-black. The spire is very 

 short, the apex slightly projecting; earlier whorls light brown, the apex 

 eroded. Whorls of the spire sculptured with several low spiral ridges. 

 Last whorl oval, smooth, aperture ovate, angular above, broadly 

 rounded Vjelow, dark within, black near the lip edge. Inner margin 

 calloused, white, usually with a brown edge. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 523 



Length 20^, diam. 14^, apertme 13 x 11 mm., 4 whorls remaining;. 

 17i. " 13", " IHx 9 " 4 " 



Moctezuma River at the ford south of Tampamolon. State of Sain 

 Luis Potosi; taken from rocks in shallow water where there was con- 

 siderable current. They were scarce. 



With some resemblance to P. pila, this species diffei-s by its more 

 oval shape, the last whorl being less convex and larger, the aperture 

 less wide. P. pila has quite a different facies from the great expansion 

 of the last whorl. 



In some examples the spire is longer than in those selected as typical : 

 length 23, diam. 15, aperture 14 mm., whorls 6, the spire being perfect. 



Paohychcilus pluriatriatus (Say). PI. XXIII, figs. 1-5. 



Melania pluristriala Say, Xcw Harmony Disscni., Doc, 1S3I ; (Vmiplete 



Writinps, p. 140. 

 Pachycheilus pluristriatns Sav, v. Martens, Biologia CVntrali .Xniir., Moll., 



p. 449, pi. 26, fig. 1. 

 Melania rubida Lea, Obs. Gen. I'nio, ete., XI, p. 77, pi. 22, fip. !<«. 

 Melania labiosa Wiegmann, in Berlin Mus. 



This species is solid, straightly conic, light slate or drab to nearly 

 black in color, glossy, usually with a yellowish band below the suture 

 and sculptured \\ith numerous acute spiral cords narrower and much 

 lighter colored than their intervals, usually 10 to 15 on the last, 6 on 

 the penultimate whorl. The embryonic whorls are smooth, following 

 ones have a keel above the suture, and soon a thread above the keel; 

 additional threads soon appearing. The suture is either rather incon- 

 spicuous throughout or moderately imj)ressed at the later whorls. 

 The last whorl is convex. Aperture jjurple-brown inside, ovate, 

 acutely angular above. Outer lip thin, retracted above. Columella 

 rather narrow. Parietal callus is rather heavy, or sometimes veiy 

 thick, white, brown at the edge. 



J..ength 37, diam. 17. aperture 1.') niin.; whorls S. 

 33, " ](i, " 11 " " 71 



35, " 15, •' 13.3 " " 9. 



Coy River, San Luis Potosi, on a long water phmt in tlio stream and 

 at the water's edge, finite abundant. 



The exact locality of Say's type of this species is not known. It 

 was taken by Mr. Madure, who went to Mexico by the Tampico route, 

 and therefore may have obtained the shells from the Coy Itiver or its 

 neighborhood. The examples taken by Mr. Hinkley agree fully 

 with Say's. The locality of M. ruhida Lea wjis also unknown. Prf)f. 




524 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov. , 



von Martens tij;iireil a specimen from the lierlin Museum, taken l)y 

 Ferdinand Deppe between 1824 and 1837. These examples were 

 labelleil as from f.ake Chapala, at the western edjre of the Mexican 

 plateau, and draining into the Pacific. It seems unUkely that this 

 snail has any such range, and we are disposed to believe that some 

 mistake about the locality of Deppe's shells has crept in. They agree 

 fully in shajie and sculpture with the Coy River examples, but, like 

 71/. ruhtild Lea, ai-e dead shells, of a reddish color. 



Faohycheilus pluristriatus longus i>. miIj^p. PI. XXIII, tigs. 11, 12. 



The shell is longer than plurisiriatus, black, sometimes fading to 

 flesh color towards the apex, not glossy. The keel above the suture 

 is more ]>rominent and the other spirals are fewer and unequal, part 

 of them being very weak, and they are l)lack like the ground color. 

 The suture is deeply impressed; the base of the last whorl is smooth 

 or weakly sculptured. 



Length 37.3, dian;. 14.3, aperture 13.. 5 mm.; whorls 9\. 

 36, " 14.5, " 13.3 " " 12. 



(lanina River, there miles southwest of San Dieguito, San Luis 

 Potosi. 



Pachycheilus pluristriatus tamasopensis n. .suh.-i). PI. XXIII, figs. 6-10. 



The shell is glossy, black, shaped like P. pluristriatus. Sculi)ture 

 weaker, the whole last whorl or its basal half being smooth, without 

 spiral cords, but generally a few spirals pereist below the suture. 



Length 36^, diam. 17, aperture 14 mm.; whorls 5^. 

 "^ 38, " 1.'). " 1.-) •• " 7i 



" 34, '■• 13, " 14 " " 7i. 



Small stream nortii of the mill of the Tamasopo Sugar Co., San Luis 

 Potosi. 



Some small exam[)les with the upper whorls eroded show no spirals 

 whatever, and may pos.sibly belong to another species (pi. XXIII, 

 fig. 8). More perfect adult shells or the young stages must be examined. 

 Examples measure : 



Length 25, diam. 13, aperture 11.7 mm.; whorls 3. 

 26.5 " 15.2, " 11 " " 4\. 



Pachych«ilu8 atratus ". m-. PI. XXIII. fig.s. 1.3-ls. 



The shell is ovate-turnted, soUd, covered with a very smooth, dense, 

 glossy brownish-l)lack cuticle. The spire is somewhat acuminate; 

 early whorls smooth; intermediate whorls often showing a few weak 




1909. NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 525 



spiral cords below the suture and a weak au^le at the sliouldei . r,a?t 

 whorl flattened below the very deep suture, elsewhere very convex 

 and smooth, thoufrh on some exami)les faint traces of very minute 

 spiral lines maj' be discerned. The aperture is romided-oval or rounded- 

 ovate, somewhat livid and translucent XNithin but ^eneralh- with a 

 black band bordeiing the hp. It jM-ojects beyond ihe general outline 

 of the cone. Outer and basal maririns of the jjeristome are thin. l)lack, 

 and well rounded; inner marjrin straightened more or less, white 

 within, with a black or brown-black edge; 5 or 6 wlidls remain in adult 

 shells, only the tips being eroded. 



Length 30, diani. 16 nun. ; aperture 13 x 9 niui. 

 27. " loA " " 13 xll •• 



27. " U " " 12^x10 '• 



Tamosopo River near A'erastagu, San Luis Potosi. above and below 

 the "Natural Bridge" (pi. XXIH, figs. 13 to 15). 



While clearly related to P. hu7ncrosus, this specie^ is ea.<ily distin- 

 guished by its rounded whorls. A large quantity <>f each was taken. 

 The type lot consists of beautifully i)erfect, clean shells from abo\e 

 the bridge. Those found below the bridge are not so clean. 



Specimens from a rill issuing from a cave on the nmuiitain side above 

 Los Canoas areincrusted with a gray calcareous deposit so that atlults 

 resemble pebbles, but when cleaned the shell within is fovmd to 1)0 

 almo.st or entirely perfect (pi. XXIII, figs. 16, 17. 18). Vig. IS repre- 

 sents a cleaned specimen. They are smaller than tlio type lot. about 

 24 mm. long. 



A lot taken in the rill on the mountain above the '• Natural Bridge"' 

 consists of flwarf shells, adults measuring 19 to 21 inui long. /'. jhhi 

 in the same stream is even more dwarfed. 

 PachyoheiluB atratus ganinua n. .~ut>-|). I'l. .Will, t\u». 19. i?t». 



A race of /'. atralu.s occurs in thedanina Hiver thi<'c iiiih^ southwest 

 of San Dieguito. Tlie black shell is dull with the middle and lower 

 whorls of the spire ridged or coai-sely st riate spirally, usually wit h 5 to S 

 strice on the penultimate whorl. Several of these spiral cords usually 

 continue on the hi.st whorl below the suture, 'i'he upper whorh of the 

 spire are smooth and convex. The apertvire is shaped as in /'. tiinilus. 

 l'"ig. 19 represents a cleaned shell, fig. 20 one incrusteil. 



Length 24, diam. 13, aperture 1 1 \ mm. 



There are some abn(»rmally shortened shells, lengtli 17, diam. 12, 

 aperture 10^ mm. The spire is generally covere<l with a hard cal- 

 careous crust, diflicult to remove. /'. ]>liirislrialun Inn/us ovv\w^ in the 

 same place. 




526 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



This form resembles P. a. suprdstn'dlits closely, but differs by having 

 smooth post-embryonic whorls. It is also constantly Ijlack in color. 



Pachycheilas atratus suprastriatus n. subsp. 



The shell resembles P. atratus in shape and aperture. It is less 

 lilossy, brownish black, dark brown or corneous-brown, the whorls 

 uf the spire spirally striate, the stria* sometimes persisting on tiie last 

 whorl below the suture. The earliest post-embryonic whorls are 

 acutely carinate, the carina continuing downward above the suture 

 as additional acute cords arise above it. On the third from the last 

 whorl, in a cotype, there are 5 equal acute strife. 



Length 30^, diam. 15, aperture 13 nmi.; 6 whorls remaining. 

 24, " 13, " lU " 5 " 

 *' 24V nun.; 7^ whorls remaining. 



;U, diam. 16 mm.; aperture 13 x 10 mm. 

 24, " 13 " " 10 X 7 " 



^'alles River at Mecos falls, and some rapids two miles ^\e,<<t of 

 Mecos, State of San Luis Potosi, Mexico. 



The only species of Pachycheilus found in the vicinity of Mecos. 

 The young differ from those of atratus and ganmus in being carinate; 

 the early whorls of the spire enlarge more regularly, and the color is 

 a dull horn or light shade of brown witliout the polish of the young 

 atratus. 



Taken from the bed of the river in a moderate current, and sheltered 

 pools where there was no current. 



Mecos falls are a number of small falls and rapids where the Valles 

 River comes from the mountains to the valley. Standing on the 

 railroad track and looking east and a little to the right, Valles can be 

 seen as a spot in the valley, and still farther in the next range of moun- 

 tains is seen the rock face of the cut through which the railroad passes 

 and in which lies the village of El Abra. 



Pachycheilus humerosns n. sp. PI. XXIII, figs. 21-25. 



The shell is ovate-turrited, solid, black with pale S])iral bands on 

 the ridges, the cuticle smooth and dense. Spire acuminate when not 

 eroded, the earliest whorls (in young shells) clear brownish, first 5 

 whorLs smooth and not very convex, then two spiral ridges appear, 

 rapidly becoming stronger, a third ridge appearing below the suture 

 ah)Out the 8th whorl, and sometimes othere between the primaiy ridges. 

 A specimen 9 mm. long with 8 whorls has 7 spiral ridges on the last 

 whorl, each showing as a white band within the aperture. One 15 mm. 

 long \\ith 9 whorls has 7 such ridge-^ and bands on the last whorl. The 




1909.] NATUR.VL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 527 



whorls then enlarge ven^ rapidly, the suture deepens. On tlie penulti- 

 mate whorl of an adult there are about 5 spiral pale ridges, the lower 

 ones wider and lower. On the last whorl the ridges weaken, leaving 

 it smooth or nearly so, or they may persist below the suture and at the 

 base; the suture beeoynes very deep, the whorl l)elow it horizontal, shoul- 

 dered, the shoulder bounded by a ridge or angle. The aperture is 

 rounded-ovate, blackish within but pale or banded in the throat; 

 outer and basal margins thin, black, broadly rounded; inner margin 

 more or less straightened, appressed or free and continuous, brown at 

 the edge, the callus white. 3^ to 6 whorls usually may be counted in 

 adult shells. 



IvCngth 28, diam. IS. aperture 13\ x lU nmi. 

 27, " 17. " 14 xl2 " 



" 25, " 18V, " 14Jxl2 " 

 " 25, " 16i " 14 xlOJ " 

 The operculum is ovate, with the nucleus about one-third across 

 from the columellar side and below the middle. 



Tamosopo River, near Verastagu, above and below the "Natural 

 Bridge." 



The Hght colored cords alternating with purple-black bands makes 

 it a conspicuoiLs shell when seen in the water. While the general 

 shape is that of P. atralus, tliis species diffei-s from that by its con- 

 spicuous sculpture. It is more allied to I', tristis, though very distinct. 



Fachycheilus monachus n. .np. PI. X.XIV, figs. 21-2.5. 



Tiie sliell is solid, cyhndric with conic spire, or turrite-conic, black. 

 The earliest whorls appear to be smooth; then sharp spiral cords much 

 narrower than their intervals appear, evenly spaced, and five on each 

 whorl; these disappear on the last two whorls, or one to throe poi-sist 

 only below the suture, where the whorl is more or less tumid or shoul- 

 dero<l. The spire is rather long and conic; suture deep; last whorl 

 convex or flattened laterally. The aperture is ovate, whitish in.side, 

 black near the lip. Outer Up sharp and strongly arcuate. Columellar 

 lij) more straightened, heavily white-callou.'^ed, usually l>rownish at 

 the edge. 



Length 32, diam. 14.3, aperture 13 mm.; whorls remaining S. 

 " 28, " 13.3, " 12 " " 41 



" 25i, " 14, " 12 " " -n. 



Coy River, three miles south of Los Talmas. State of San Luis 

 Potasi, Mexico. 



The Cov Rivor issues from a cave at the foot of the mountain below 




52S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



the railroad track. Specimens taken near the ca\ e and a short distance 

 within average smaller than those taken lower down the stream, but 

 agree with them in other charactei-s. They mea»sure 20 to 28 mm. 

 long. 



P. monachus has some resemblance to P. a. supra striatuf^, bnt in 

 tliat the spiral striiP are coai-ser and less regular, the aperture is less 

 angular above, and projects more laterally beyond the outline of tlie 

 cone. a.>^ in P. at rat us. 



Paohycheilus vallesensis Hinkley. 



Nautilu.s, XXI, p. 25, pi. 5, figs. 1-3, .5-7, 10 (July, 1907). 



Tliis species was taken in the Valles River at Valles; most abimdant 

 where there is but little current. Also at the ranch of C. P. Wilhs. In 

 all kinds of situations. In some places the young were very numerous. 

 The largest ones were on rocks and in the bed of the river where there 

 was little or no current. The large typical form also occurred in the 

 Panuco River at Pujal, on a rock outcrop in the bed of the river. 

 This is a ^^'ide shallow stream in which there is a large amount of 

 shifting sand. Few shells were found where the stream was visited. 



Very large shells, some 37^ x 18^ mm., were taken in the Moctezuma 

 River at the ford, in the bed of the stream. 



P. vallesensis differe from the other stout species of the region by 

 its bluish, ashy or blackish-gray color, reminding one of Goniobasis 

 livescens, and by the white columellar callus. 



Pachyoheilus vallesensis attenuatus n. subs^p. 



The shell is livid bluish when clean, smaller and much more .slender 

 than vallesensis, v,iih a comparatively longer spire. Whorls 8 or 9, 

 the upper ones weakly striate spirally, last whorl smooth. Aperture 

 ovate, acutely angular above. Parietal callus thick and white, the 

 appressed edge often yellowish or brownish. 



Length 26, diam. 11, aperture 9 mm. 

 " 28, " m, " 12^ " 



Chaimai Creek (about halfway between Valles and Pujal) and 

 Casas Viejas River, a tributaiy of the ^'alles River, coming from the 

 north of Valles, and emptying into the \'alles River some miles east of 

 Mecos falls. 



These shells were at first thought to be P. supra stria t us, but they 

 differ in the stria? of the young being finer and more numerous; there 

 is also a difference in the aperture and columellar callus, and the outer 

 lip is never extended beyond the line of the spire as in suprastriatus. 



In 1907 this form was included in the description of P. vallesensis 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 529 



and figured (see Nauiilus, \o\. 21, figs. 4, 8 and 9 of pi. 5). They are 

 more acute in the spire and thinner than typical vallcsensis, also smaller. 

 The shells taken the past winter were from farther up the stream than 

 those taken two yeare before. Not one could be found at the place 

 where tiiey were then. 



Chaimai Creek is about two miles down the \'alles River from the 

 Willis ranch (where typical P. vallcsensis occurs), and begins with a 

 spring al)out a mile from the river. The water of the spring is a little 

 warm and the pool there contains no Pachijcheilus. Lower down they 

 were often on and among decaying leaves. 

 Pachycheilus suUralis n. sp. PI. XXIV. figs. iG-20. 



Tlie shell is turrited. regularly and slowly tapering, moderately solid 

 though rather thin, black, blackish-brown or brown. In perfect 

 shells the first (embr>'onic) 2\ whorls are smooth and convex; four or 

 five following whorls have an acute carina below the middle, with an 

 acute thread above and one below it; on subsequent whorls the carina 

 is reduced and the number of spiral threads increases, so that there is 

 a brief stage of about one whorl where the convex surface has about 

 6 subequal spirals; the lower spirals then diminish, lea\Tng the la^^t 

 .3 or 4 whorls nearly smooth except for a group of usually three or four 

 spiral cords just below the suture. Some weak traces of spiral striic may 

 often be seen on the smoothish portion, under the lens. The aj)crture 

 is l)n)adly ovate, narrower above, but rounded there in adults, broadly 

 rounded below. The i>eristome is thin, blackish, noticeably retracted 

 just below the columella, and the outer lip is sinuous, being somewnat 

 retracted al)ovo. The jiarietal callus is bmwii or l)lackisli, rather 

 heavy. 



I..ength 2S, diam. l.{. aperturo 1 1 nun. ; whorls remaining ol. 

 " 28, "III. •• II " " " ()^ 



24\. " 11. •• 10 " " " (U. 



L'«i. " 11.1. " ())^ " <' " 7. 



Creek near Tampamolon. with P. pleurotomn. Also found in the 

 creek at Coxcantlan, a creek one mile above the ford of the Moctezuma 

 River, and in the first and second brooks crf>ssed on the road through 

 the mountains to the .Moctezuma River; all in tlic State of San Luis 

 Poto.si. 



This species is relateil to /'. jilrurototmi, which dilTci-s chielly by its 

 Pleurotomoid siiuis. The only other related species is P. snussurei 

 (Brot),' of which two of the original Uti, rcceivetl from Dr. Jirot, are 



* Sep K0.«»t<>r'9 Conchvlien Cabinet. M elannceen . p. 43. pi. .•>. fig. 7; type locality 

 a swamp in tlu- wotkIs fH)r<icring tlir- Hio ClnuKli', wliirli •niptio.s into the kngtinn 

 de Moztitlan, State of Hidalgo. It ha« no outlet to the .wa. 




530 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Pliiladelphia. 

 In P. saussurei several whorls following the embryonic shell are convex 

 and smooth, not keeled as in P. siUuralis; and lower down the whorls 

 have in addition to the subsutural group of stria; a weak longitudinal 

 plication, which is wanting in P. sutiiralis. 



The largest examples are from a creek about a mile above the ford 

 of the Moctezuma River. Two measure: 



Length 34, diam. 15, aperture 13 mm.; whorls remaining 4. 

 " 33.2, " 12.2, " 12 " " " 7.^. 



Those from the creek at Coxcantlan are not quite so large as the 

 type lot, and the shells from the two rills in the mountains are small; 

 those from the fii-st rill have the Up shghtly expanded, and are quite 

 slender, measuring : 



Length 18.2, diam. 7, aperture 6.2 mm.; whorls 8^. 



" 20, " 7.3, " 7 " " 10 (apex perfect). 



They live in the same stream with P. pleurotoma, but were not noticed 

 feeding with that species, seeming to prefer the rocks where there is 

 con-siderable current. 



Those from the second rill are slightly larger and lass slender, about 

 21 X 10 mm. 



Pachycheilus pleurotoma n. sp. PI. XXIV, figs. 13-15. 



The shell is slender, turrited or spire-shaped, rather thin, hair-brown 

 or greenish-ohve. Spire long, slightly attenuate above. The earliest 

 whorls are smooth and rounded ; then some spiral threads appear, one 

 near the lower suture rapidly increasing to a projecting carina, with one 

 thread below, one to three above it; this stage continuing 3 or 4 

 whorls. The carina then disappeai-s, leaving the whorls rounded wth 

 about 5 threads, and sometimes a low, indistinct longitudinal plication. 

 The spiral threads then disappear, leaving the last 2 to 4 whorls convex 

 and smooth except for 3 or 4 spiral cords just below the suture. The last 

 whorl usually becomes a Uttle shouldered near the aperture. The 

 aperture is small, very broadly ovate, being somewhat narrower but 

 rounded above. The outer lip, close below the suture, is retracted 

 to form a deep rounded sinus, much as in the marine genus Drillia. 

 Elsewhere the lip is thin and simple. The basal Hp is broadly rounded. 

 Columellar margin straightened or much less arched than the outer 

 margin, moderately thickened. 



Length 36 J, diam. \2\, length of aperture 11^^ mm.; whorls 10. 

 " 29, " 10^, " " " 9f " " 10. 



Mountain rill on the road going north from Tampamolon, and 

 several small streams not far from Coxcantlan. Types from the first 



!> 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 531 



rill on the road to the Moctezmna River. The shells were found where 

 there was Uttle or no current and seemed to be feeding on decaying 

 vegetation, cliiefly on fruit of the \vild orange. 



This species is distinguished from others of its group by the deep 

 Pleurotomoid notch. In Pachycheilus this structiu-e is known only 

 in P. dalli Pils., a species very different in other characters. Perfect 

 shells may have as many as 12 whorls, but the tip is generally lost in 

 adults. 



ExPLAXATiox OF Plates XXIII, XXI\'. 



Plate XXIII. — Figs. 1-.5 — Pachycheilus pila n. sp. Cotypes. 

 Fig. 6 — P. pila pilula n. siibsp. Cotype. 

 Figs. 7-10 — Pachycheilus tristis n. sp. Cotypes. 

 Figs. 11, 12 — Pachycheilus moclezumcnsis n. sp. Cotypes. 

 Figs. 13-15— Pachycheilus pleurotmna n. sp. Cotypes. 

 Figs. lG-20 — Pachycheilus suturalis n. sp. Cotypes. 

 Figs. 21-2.5 — Pachycheilus monachus n. sp. Cotv'pes. 



Plxte XXIV. — Figs. 1-5 — Pachycheilus pluristriatus (Say). Coy Kiver. 



Figs. 6-10 — Pachycheilus pluristriatus tomasopensis n. subsp. Cotypes, 



Figs. 11, 12 — Pachycheilus pluristriatus longus n. subsp. Cotj-pes. 



Figs. 1.3-1.5 — Pachycheilus atratus n. sp. Cotypes. 



Figs. 16, 17, 18 — Pachycheilus atratus n. sp. Los Canoas. 



Figs. 19, 20 — Pachycheilus atratus ganinus n. suljsp. Cotypes. 



Figs. 21-2.5 — Pachycheilus humerosus n. sp. Cotypes. 




532 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV. 



UNI0NID5: OF THE PANUCO RIVER SYSTEM, MEXICO. 

 ]JY HF.NRY A. IMLSIiUV. 



The extensive river system emptjiiifj by the ranuco River into tlie 

 Gulf of Mexico at Tampico has a rich molhisk fauna, in wliich the 

 Mclaniidce and Unionidcc are particularly well develo}:ied. A few of 

 the mussels were collected by Dr. Islanding many yeai-s ago and 

 described by Dr. Isaac Lea. Many more were taken l)y Mr. A. A. 

 Hinkley in January and February of the present year. All of tlie 

 species known from the I'anuco drainage are included in the following 

 list. The localities mentioned may be found on the map, p. 520. 



(July four Panuco species are now known to extend southward into 

 the rivers of the neighborhood of \'era Cruz. There is more afhnity 

 with the fauna of the Rio Salado. 



The generic relationships of eastern Mexican Umonidcv are \ery 

 uncertain, since Simpson, in his great systematic work, knew tlie 

 soft parts of veiy few Mexican forms, and there are no definite generic 

 characters in the shells alone distinguishing the genera Unio, Nephro- 

 naias and Lfimpsilis. Some species which have been i-eferred to the 

 two former genera seem to me to belong to Lampsilis. Under these 

 circumstances, it will be undei"stood that the generic refei-ences herein 

 are made with reserve, and subject to revision by those who may study 

 these mussels in the flesh. 



Qnadrnla nickliniana (Lea). 



i'n!o n. Lea. 01).s., I. 140; III, 72. 



Moctezuma River (Dr. Blanding). This large aiui handsome 



plicate species was not found by Mr. Hinkley. 



Qaadrula semigranosa v. <l. Hu.sch. 



Unio semigranosiis v. d. Bu.scli, in Philippi, .\bbild., I, p. 19, pi. 1, figs. 1-3. 

 Marten.s, Biologia, p. 493, pi. 30, figs. 1-4. 



Rio Panuco at Tampico, type loc. It has not been found by Mr. 

 Hinkley. 



My record of this species from Rio Tuliga in I'abasco, copied into 

 the Biologia by Prof, von ^lartens, was erroneous, the specimen from 

 that place being U. corium Sowb. and not scrmigranosus. This leaves 

 only the Panuco locality on record for the species, though related 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 533 



forms are known from southern Mexico. It is an alien in noiiheastern 



Mexico. 



Lampsilis azteoorum (Phil). 



Philippi, Ahbild., Ill, p. 27, pi. 6, fig. 2. MarU'us, Hiolopia. p. .502, pi. 3G, 

 fig.s. 2-4a; pi. 37, figs. 3, 3a,b. 



Zimapan, on the Rio San Juan, a southern confluent of the Tanuco 

 (Schiede). Not taken by Mr. Ilinkley. 



Lampsilis strebeli (I>ea). 



()1j.<;., XII, p. 78, pi. 51, Hg. 131; Martens, Biologia, p. o03, pi. 37, figs. 1, 2 

 (as a variety of aztecorum) . Xephronaias medellinus Simpson, .Sviiopsis, 

 p. 592, footnote 2. 



Valles River, two miles above Mecos, at the head of the rapids. 

 Taken from crevices in the bed of the stream, wiiere the water was 

 deep and the current so strong that it wa.s difhcult to hold one's posi- 

 tion. 



The shells in this place were so badly eroded that a tliird were 

 discarded. 



This species was described from the State of Vera Cruz. It has 



been united with medcllimts by Mr. Simpson, and with azltcnrum by 



von -Martens, but I think it specifically distinct. 



Lampsilis fimbriata I'rier^on. 



•Nautilus. .\XI, p. S6, pi. 12, figs. 1-3, Der., 1007. A. .syj/j>ia.te«si's Simpson, 

 in Dall, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mas., lOOS, p. 101, pi. 30, fig. 3. 



\'alles River at \'alles, at the ranch of Mr. Willis, between Valles and 



Pujal, and two miles above Mecos, where it occui-s with />. slnbrli. 



"At \'alles the water was very shallow, and nearly the whole bed of 



the stream could be waded. The shell.--, were found between and under 



rocks in mid-stream, and a few were taken from a muddy i)ank across 



the river from the town." This fine Lampsilis is related to L. slnbcli 



on the one .side, to L. discus on the other. 



Lampsilis ditcni (r.«a). 



I'nin (iisnis Ia'h, ()1)s., II, p. 71; III, p. 72. Von M.irtms, Hinlngia, p. .'»09, 



with var. ronnectcna and /Minuvornxin, p. .510. 

 i'niu UipidosnH \'illa in Kolwlt. 



Moctezuma River. "Just below the ford the river is divided l»y a 

 large island. The stream on the right ha-s a strong current; that on 

 the left is checked to some extent by a rock outcrop at tlie lower end 

 of the island. In this part <»f the stream iiuito a bod of this species 

 was found." (.\. A. 11.) 



The type locality is the Rio Moctezuma. The varieties described 

 by Prof, von Martens caimot be sustaineil. They occur together 

 and fully intergrade. It is a magnificent species, one of the largest 

 in LdnipKili.'i. The nacre may be white, salmon «)r piiq^le. 




534 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov,^ 



Lampsilis tampicoensis (Len). 



I'nio tcimpicocnsis Lea, Obt;., II, p. 21. ^ On Mart<'ns, liiologia, p. T)! 1 , pi. 33, 

 fig. 1. 



Valles River at Mr. Willis' ranch, about halfway between ^'alle;^ and 

 Pujal. 

 Lampsilis moctezumensis n- s^p. PI. XXV, figs, l, 2, 3, 4. 



The shell is oblong, the doi-sal and ventral margins l)oth arched, th.e 

 former a little more so; altitude decidedly more than half the length, 

 diameter more than one-third the length ; moderately strong but not 

 thick. The beaks are small and low. near the anterior foui-th of the 

 length. In young shells they show one or two low, short undulations, 

 being nearly smooth. Color yello\\ish brown. Ad\ilt shells hardly 

 showing rays, even by transmitted light, but the young have narrow 

 green rays posteriori)', on a yellow ground, marked with dark concentric 

 streaks. Both ends are rounded. Sculpture of growth-wrinkles only, 

 weak on the middle of the valve, but rather emphatic anteriorly. The 

 interior is wliite, the nacre thinner and iridescent posteriorly. The 

 pseudocardinal teeth are moderately stout, blunt and nearly smooth. 

 In the left valve the posterior cardinal is larger than the anterior. 

 In the right valve the single cardinal is small. The lateral teeth are 

 short and \sidely separated from the cardinals. The cavity of the 

 beaks are rather deep. 



Length 68, alt. 38^, diam. 24 mm. 



Moctezuma River, State of San Luis Potosi. Veiy few specimens 

 were found. 



Tliis species has some resemblance to spatulatus (Lea). It differs 

 from the related species by wanting corrugation on the posterior slope. 



Lampsilis iridella Pilsbry and Fnerson. 



Nautilus, XXI, pi. 12, figs. 4, 5 (Dec, 1907) ; XXII, p. 81 (Dec, 1908). 



Very abundant in the Vall&s River at Valles and Mr. Willis' ranch. 

 Also taken in the Casas Viejas River, the Coy River, and Tampamolone 

 Creek. 



Most specimens from Valles are larger than the types, brownish- 

 yellow or oUve-yellow with rays only on the posterior half, when adult, 

 or sometimes rays are entirely wanting. An adult shell measures, 

 length 61, alt. 31, diam. 19.5 mm. 

 Lampsilis semirasa n- sp. PI. XXVI, figs. 7, 8, 9. 



The shell is oblong-reniform, the ventral margin being a little 

 concave in the middle or straight, the upper margin strongly arched; 

 the posterior end is wider in female shells, scarcely so in males. The 

 altitude is contained about If times in length, diameter about 3 times 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 535 



in the length. The surface is smoothish except for gro\\'th-bnes which 

 are strongest near the lower margin and anterior end. Color various 

 sliades of brown, with rather indi.stinct darker or greenish rays, chiefly 

 on the posterior half. The beaks are low, at the anterior fiftii of the 

 length. When perfect they have double-looped concentric sculjiture. 

 Valves tiiin, hned with nacre which is whitisii in the cavity and anter- 

 iorly, but pink and veiy iridescent posteriorly (sometimes suffused 

 with pink throughout, darker and purphsh below the pallial line, or 

 sometimes silvery white througliout). I'seudocardinal teeth compressed, 

 rather small; lateral teeth veiy short, about ono-tliinl the sliell's 

 length. Ligament short. 



Length 47, alt. 2G\, diam. 16^ mm. 

 47, " 26, " 15 " 



Ganina River three miles southwest of San Dieguito, in mud and 

 gravel in clear water about knee-deep, where there was no current. 

 Also in the Valles River two miles above Mecos. 



Some specimens of the tyi)e lot are larger, length 55, alt. 28, diam. 

 10 nun. Tliere is also some variation in the teeth, which may be more 

 or less stout. 



In the \'alles River at Mecos the shells are rather small and not 

 incrusted; nacre white, iridescent posteriori}', but not suffused there 

 with pink or purple. Some <»f the half-grown specimens arc quite 

 fully rayed. 



Two miles above Mecos in the \'alles River there arc large shells 

 with but little incrustation, and ratiier dull, opaque, white nacre, 

 with but little iridescence. Two measure: 



Length 58, alt. .34, diam. 19 mm. 

 " 56, " 2Sh, " 19.\ " 



L. semirfisn diffei-s from L. ,si</nata and L. \auUv<uja by lacking 

 corrugation f)n the conve.vity of the valv(>< and on the poslerior-iloi"saI 

 slope. It apparently lives with the shell nearly half l)uricd, somewhat 

 more thnn the posterior half projertiiifr. and in most localities covered 

 with a hard calcareous coat, as in pi. X.WT, fig. \). Fig. 7 represents 

 a cleaned specimen. 



Lampsilis popei (I.c-o. 



I'liiii /nt/ici I>'!i. Oli.s., \1IL 1'. .")l (.Ii'vils I'ivir, TcxjL'*, arid Hio Salado, 

 Nur-vo Ix"on. Mi'xiro). 



Vallns River at \'allcs, Willis' ranch, and two miles above Mecos, 

 Abundant. Tamijamolon Creek, one specimen. The shells have fine 

 purple nacre, coppery and iridescent posteriorly. I have compared 

 them with the types of popri'in V. S. National Mu.seum. 




536 , PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



Lampsilis signata ". sp. PI. XXV. fiK.s. .i, (>. 



riie shell is oblong with subparallel dorsal and ventral bordci-s, 

 twice as long as ^\^de, the diameter contained about three times in the 

 length. The anterior border is rounded, posterior border truncate 

 below, sloping and more or less convex from the truncation to the 

 posterior end of the hinge. In some specimens the posterior truncation 

 is indistinct, or that extremity may be rounded. The beaks are low 

 and situated near the anterior fourth of the shell's length. Adult 

 shells are blackish, but by transmitted light numerous green rays may 

 be seen, fading out towards the lower border; and when unworn the 

 beaks shows a {jrett}' pattern of distinct green rays on a pinkisli or 

 creamy ground. The surface has but Uttle gloss; the cuticle is rough- 

 enetl by growth-lines, which near the edge and on the posterior slope 

 often form cuticular lamin:e; the middle part of the valves is smoother, 

 but marked with one or more small patches of short corrugations, at right 

 angles to tlie growth-lines, and near the beaks there are some acute 

 fine radial wrinkles on the posterior-dorsal slope. 



The beaks are sculptured with two radial series of sliort concentric 

 wrinkles separated by a slight depression. The valves are rather 

 thick in the anterior half, becoming abruptly thinner posteriorly. 

 The nacre is purple, fading in the cavity, or bluish white, becoming 

 l^urplish and iridescent posteriorly. The pseudocardinal teeth are 

 stout, the anterior one in the left valve wedge-shaped, a rather broad 

 rugose heel below it, the posterior one lying directly under the beak; 

 lateral teeth double as usual. The right valve has a stout, rugose 

 pseudocardinal with a fossa and then a very small, compressed laminar 

 tooth above it; lateral tooth single. 



Length To, alt. 37, diam. 23 nun. 



\'alles River, " near a small falls about three miles below Valles, in the 

 muddy banks of a pool caused by low water. Feb. 4, 1909. " (A.A.H.) 

 A few smaller specimens were taken in the Moctezuma RiAcr, Casas 

 \'iejas River and Tampamolon Creek. A young sliell with the 

 corrugation unusually well developed is figured, pi. XX \T, figs. 5, G. 

 Lampsilis undivaga n. sp. PI. XXVI, figs, i, 2, 3, 4. 



The shell is oblong, the altitude about three-fifths (jf the length, diam- 

 eter slightly over one-third the length ; solid, dull blackish brown, without 

 rays. The anterior end is rounded, posterior end more or less truncate 

 below, sloping steeply above. Surface of the valves with sculpture 

 of distinct growth-fines, and sometimes having a patch of very indis- 

 tinct vertical corrugatioas near the posterior ridge on the most convex 

 portion. There is also some fine oblique corrugation on the posterior- 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 537 



dorsal .slojje near the beaks, when not worn off. Beaks low, between 

 the anterior fifth and sixth of the length; when perfect the tip is acute 

 and sculptured with a series of short folds on the posterior ridge. The 

 interior is fleshy-purplish, iiidescent posteriorly; nacre in the anterior 

 half is very thick, posteriorly thin. Cavity of the beaks deep and 

 angular. The ps(5udocardinal teeth are stout, otherwise formed as in 

 L. signata; laterals curved. 



Length 54, alt. 33, diam. 19 mm. 

 54, " 30, " 18 " 

 50, " 30. " IS " 



\'alle,s River two miles al)()ve Mecos, in a nuiddy bank just above 

 rapids. 



This species is closely related to L. sujiuita, Ijut the valves are thicker 

 and heavier, the teeth are heavier, and the proportioiLS differ. It is 

 apparently related to L. aztecorum (Phil.),^ but that is described as 

 thin, "valvulis satis temtibus," whereas in L. undivaga the valves are 

 quite heavy and strong for a Lampsilis of this size. 



The nacre is nearly white in a few examples. It abruptly becomes 

 thick in the posterior half of the shell. Young shells are conspicuously 

 rayed with green. 



One young shell from the \'alles River at X'alles (pi. XX\'1I, fig. 5), 

 seems to belong to this species, though I am not quite sure of the 

 identity. It is 41 mm. long, yellowish, nearh' covered with green rays, 

 the nacre is pale purple, with a wide darker ])in])le margin posteriorly. 



Lampiilis novileonis n. sp. PI. XXVII, figs. 1, 2. 



The >lioll is oblong, rather compressed, tiic upper and ba.sal margins 

 slightly and about efjually arcuate, anterior end rounded, posterior 

 end sloping above, truncate and somewhat biangular below, beaks 

 at the anterior two-sevenths of the length. The surface is convex, 

 without angle or ridge bounding the posterior slojio, not very glo.'^sy, 

 smoothish for the greater part, but on the posterior slope there is 

 some oblif|ue corrugation in the upper part of the disk. The epidermis 

 is yellow, s|)arsely marked in the posterior lialf with narrow green 

 rays. The vciy low beaks are eroded in the type specimen. The interior 

 is white, thicker anteriorly, veiy gradually becoming thinner at the 

 posterior end, where opalescent tints are beautifully produced. The 

 cavity of the beak is rather deep. The lateral teeth are short and 

 rather widely separated from the stout cardinals, which are double 

 and about eciually prominent in the loft valve. * 



' Unio aztecorum I'liilippi, .\l>hiMitti(jtn und lirschreibunijcn iieurr udcr wenig 

 bekannUr Concliylien, III, pi. «), lig. 2. 

 85 




538 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



Length 78. alt. 4:^5. diani. 22.5 mm. 



Casas Vieja-s River. State of San lAiis Potosi. 



With some resemblance to L. modczumcnsis, this species diffei-s by 

 the slight corrugation of the posterior slope and the more compressed 

 form. Some young specimens (pi. XXVII, fig. 7) from the type locality, 

 which seem referable to this species, have the whole valves ornamented 

 with ^^^de green rays. The beaks have a minute area sculptmed with 

 about four concentric wrinkles, which are very weakly bilobed. Outside 

 of this sculptured portion the green rays are very distinct, as in allied 

 species. A faint rib or green stripe radiates from the beak in the 

 middle of the posterior slope, which is in part obliquely corrugated. 

 These specimens measure from 17^ to 36 mm. long. 

 Lampsilis coyensis n. sp. PI. XXVII, figs. 3, 4. 



Tlie shell is (il)long, \nth beaks at the anterior fourth of its length; 

 slightly uider posteriorly, the posterior end sloping above, biangular 

 below; anterior end rounded; basal outline moderately curved, convex. 

 There is a rather distinct angulation from the beak towards the 

 posterior-basal angle, and the indistinct trace of a ridge to the posterior- 

 median angle. The beaks are low, with minute, recurved tips sculp- 

 tured \\ith a few coarse double-festooned wrinkles, the cormection 

 between the two curves almost interrupted. The sculptured portion 

 is not quite two mm. long. Subsequent grov\i:h is marked with growth- 

 lines only, or with a very slight oblique corrugation in places on the 

 posterior slope. The epidermis is rather smooth but not glossy, and 

 is shortly and finely lamellose towards the margins. Color obscure 

 greenish yellow, indistinctly marked all over with green rays. Near 

 the beaks the rays are very distinct on a light ground. By transmitted 

 light it is fight yello^^^sh, very profusely marked with green rays. 

 The interior is white and somewhat thick anteriorly, thin, l^lue and 

 slightly iridescent in the posterior half. The teeth are moderately 

 strong. 



Length 36, alt. 21, diam. 13.5 mm. 



Ck)y River, State of San Luis Potosi, Mexico, collected by Mr. A. A. 

 Hinkley, January, 1909. 



The-e Lamp.sifis from the Coy River were found where there was a 

 long mossfike plant gro\\ing, the current of the stream keeping it 

 in a constant wa\'ing motion. The water Mas two to four feet deep. 

 The Lampsifis were fovmd by feeling in the roots of this moss. 



On the moss and bed of the stream were Pachycheilus and Litha- 

 siopsis, but the former were more numerous lower down the stream 

 in a small recess where there was no current. In this recess were also 




1909.] NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 539 



found the small species taken in this stream. Tliey were in the sedi- 

 ment, and on water plants and near the water's edge. The stream is 

 clear, deep and with a strong current. 



This may turn out to be a small, rayed variety of L. novilconis, yet 

 specimens from 28 to 36 mm. long have every appearance of adult 

 shells. The cardinal teeth in the left valve are stouter and their crests 

 are more united than in L. novilconis. 



While L. undivaga, coyensis and novileonis are closely related species, 

 they seem, with present material, to be distinct. 

 Lampsilis metallica ganina n. subsp. PI. XXVII, fig. G. 



The shell resembles L. metallica (Say) {Unio cuprinus LeaJ in 

 general appearance, but is constantly smaller, more compressed and 

 more renifonn. Near the beaks there are green rays on a pale ground, 

 the rest of the valve being brownish black. 



Length 47, alt. 25, diam. 13^ mm. 

 47i, " 26^, " 16 " 

 39, "21, " 13 " 



Ganina River, three miles southwest of San Dieguito. The speci- 

 mens are heavily incrusted with calcareous matter posteriorly, but are 

 free from erosion. 



Glabaris strebeli (Ua). PI. XXVII, fig. 8. 



Anodonla strebeli Lea, Obs., XII, p. 82, pi. .52, fig. 13.5 (Vera Cruzj. 



Tampamolon Creek, two specimens. Ca^as \'iejas River, one 

 young shell. 



Theepidennis is veiy glossy anteriorly, but dull and .^^hortly laincllose 

 on the posterior half. In tiie median part there are severaJ rays 

 composed of short threads in the direction of gnnvth-lines, but caught 

 up and interrupted in tiie middle, as though scored upward when soft. 

 These pecuUar markings occur on some other species of Glabaris, and 

 are constant in all the si)cciniens of G. strebeli I have seen from \'era 

 Cruz and San Luis Potosi, Theanterior end of the shell ha.-^ a sculpture 

 of threads along the lines of growth. The siinilus, or glossy area at 

 the j)osterior end of the hinge-line, is triangular, pointed below, as in 

 Glalxiris. not shallow, as in Anodonla; so that Mr. Simpson's referoiK-e 

 of the species to Glabaris is justified. It ranges north fartlier than 

 any other species of the genus. G. cylindraccus (I.ca), from tjie 

 Medellin River, is evidently an allied form. 




510 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Xov., 



NEW LAND SHELLS FROM MEXICO. 

 BY HENRY A. PILsBRY. 



Mo.st of the species here descril^ed were collected h}' Mr. A. A. 

 Hinkley eaily in 1909. The localities mentioned may [)e found marked 

 on the map on p. 520. 

 Sohasicheila xanthia ". »v. Fig. 1. 



The shell is ct)nic, thin, of a uniform maize yellow or pale lemon 

 color, rather weakly marked with fine growth-striie; whoris 4^, very 

 convex, parted by a deep suture, the last whorl well rounded throughout, 

 slightly descending at the aperture. Aperture 

 sUghtly obUque; outer lip very slightly ex- 

 panded. Inner lip straight, continuous. Colu- 

 mellar area small, white, the umbihcal region 

 deeply impressed. The operculum is thin, 

 white, a little simken at the nucleus, the lower 

 angle projecting in a short point beyond the 

 basal lip. 



^''p ^ Alt. 4.9, diam. 4.9 nnn. 



Canyon below Las Canoas, State of San Luis Potosi, in crevices and 

 on ledges of the bluffs, under stones and debris. Types 99,024 A. N. 

 S. P. 



This snail is related to .S. minuscula I'fr., but on comparison of 

 specimens it is seen that in the new form the spire is higher, more 

 acute, and the suture is deeper. The operculum is in place in the 

 figured type. 



Helicina vanattae n. sp. 



The shell is turbinate-globose, similar to //. chn/socheUa Binn., 

 white, the upper whorls often flesh colored, the last whorl often having 

 a wide dull purplish or dull red band above the peripheiy, and partly 

 exposed above the suture on the spire; marked with a bright scarlet 

 streak behind the lip, with usually, in large shells, a more coaspicuous 

 streak at the last third of the last whorl, and another on the penulti- 

 mate whorl. The spire is conic, apex rather acute. Whorls 6, slightly 

 convex, the Ia.st rounded peripherally. Sculpture of faint growth- 

 lines, very fine, close spiral striae (sometimes subobsolete), and very 

 weakly developed, short, forwardly-descending wrinkles. Aperture 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 541 



quite oblique; peristome narrowly expanded, white, with n red streak 

 iaside. Basal cp.llus white, weak and small, having a small pit behind 

 the columellar Up. 



Alt. 9.5, diam. 10.5 mm.; whorls 6. 



On the sides of tlie canyon below Los Canoas, San Luis Potosi, under 

 loose rocks and leaves on shelves and in crevices of the bluffs. Also 

 on the bluff near the mill of the Tamosopo Sugar Ck)., and on the side 

 of the highest peak south of Mect^s falls. Tyj^es No. 99,025 A. N. S. P. 



This species differe from //. chnjsocheila cnietly in coloration, being 

 marked with scarlet streaks behind the lip and at fonner growth- 

 arrest periods, and in having a white lip, that of chrysodiciUi being 

 yellow, as tne name denotes. Some examples are very small, but 

 have an expanded lip, diam. only 8 mm., with 5J whorls. The largest 

 specimen seen measures alt. 12.2, diam. 12.7 mm. 



Named for .Mr. E. G. ^'anatta. 

 Polygyra matermontana jaliscoensis n. subsp. 



The shell is larger than P. matermontana, brown, the last whorl or 

 1^ whorls weakly rib-striate, with faint traces of spiral stria* near the 

 peripheiy, previous whorls finely striate; umbilicus larger, the central 

 cavity well-like, contracting very slowly, more than half the total 

 width; at the last whorl the umbilicus expands rapidly, and has a 

 nearly vertical side wall. Whorls 6, the last very deeply and steeply 

 descending in front, and having a rather deep and long spiral furrow- 

 within the umbilicus. The aperture is sul)horizontal, the ba^al and 

 upper margins j)arallel; teeth somewhat larger tiian in typical matir- 

 monlana. similar in shape, but tlic sinus between t!io outer and basal 

 teeth is a little narrower. 



Alt. 6, diam. 12, width of umliilicus .3 mm. 

 " o.S. '' 11, " " " 2.9 " 



(luadalajara. State of Jalisco, .Mexico. Types No. ',»*,>,.')12 A. .\. S. V. 



Tliis form diffei-s from matermontana in the coai-ser sculptiu-e, wider 

 umbilicus which is more deeply groovetl within, narrower la.«t whorl 

 (viewed from above), more deeply descending at the npert>iro, etc. 

 It ha.s a wider umbilicus than P. nclsoni Dall. 



A similar shell except that the color is pale yellowisli-ci>rneous with 

 a veiy faint supraperipheral i)and, and the sculpture of the la-^t whorl 

 is not quite so coarse, wa.** collected l)y Mr. C. H. T. Townsend at 

 Zapotlan. Jalisco, in July, 1902. It is evidently a very dnycly relatetl 

 race. ^ 



Polygyra guadalajareniii n. !4|>. 



The shell is depresse<l, with .'^liglitly convex spire ami moderate 




542 



PROCEEDINGS OF THK ACADIOMY OF 



[Nov., 



umbilicus (contained about 4^ times in the diameter of shell), which is 

 well-like and cnlnnjes rcri/ littlr at the last xcharl, where hut a very narrow 

 area of the preceding whorl is exposed. Surface glossy, marked with 

 growth-wrinkles, more distinctly striate behind the lip; pale brown. 

 \\nu)rls 4J to 5. convex, the last subangular in front of the aperture, 

 soon becoming rounded, with the periphery well al)()ve the middle; 

 it is deeply contracted behind the outer and basal lips, and descends 

 abruptly in front ; within the umbilicus it is flattened but not furrowed. 

 The aperture is transvei-sely oblong. Parietal tooth V-shaped both 

 branches curved, the outer one slender and nearly but not quite 

 reaching the upper termination of the lip; lower branch stronger, 

 nearly reaching the termination of the columellar lip. Within the outer 

 lip there is a compressed tubercle with a callous buttress or concave 

 plate above it. In the basal margin there is a similar compressed 

 tubercle, with a weak callus (scarcely a tooth) between it and the 

 columella. 



Alt. 4.2, diam, 8.8, width of umbilicus 2 mm. 

 " 4. " 8 mm. 



Guadalajara, State of Jahsco. Types No. 99,513 A. N. S. P. 



Fig. 2. Polygyra guadalajarensis n. sp. 



This species is related to P. ventrosula hindsi (Pfr.), from which it 

 differs chiefly by the much larger cavity of the umbilicus, which 

 enlarges at the last whorl less than in any of the related species known 

 to me. 



The two species described above belong to the group of P. ventrosula, 

 — the most difficult group of Mexican Polygyras. 



This group includes shells in which the parietal tooth is distinctly 

 V-shaped, and the outer hp has a well-developed concave plate or but- 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 543 



tre.^s above and joined to the outer lip-tooth, basal lip vdth one or two 



teeth. The following species belong here: 



P. plagioglossa (Pfr.) P. guadalajarensis Pils. 



P. supl^azonata Pils. P. bicruris (Pfr.) 



P. couloni (Shuttl.) P. matennontana Pils. 



P. richardsoni Marts. P. mat. jaliscoensis PiLs. 



P. richardsoni lingualis Pils. P. nelsorii Dall. 



P. ponsonbyi Pils. P. nelsoni coUisella Dall. 



P. ventrosula (Pfr.) P. eugltjpta Pils. 



P. ventrosida hindsi (Pfr.) P. albicostidata Pils. 



Of these forms I have not seen P. bicruris and P couloni, or typical 

 specimens of P. ventrosula or richardsoni. 



This group of species is especially develoi>ed in western and northern 

 Me.xico. Towards the southeast it is in large measure supei-seded by 

 the group of P. yucatanea, of wliich P. helictomphala is a common form. 

 In this group there is no distinct plate or buttress above the outer lip- 

 tooth, and the parietal tooth is reduced. 



Northward, the group of P. texasiam replaces the ventrosula group. 

 P. texasiana, P. triodontoides, P. mooreana, P. latispira and their 

 subspecies compose the texasiana group. 



The old records, on Sowerby's authority, of P. ventrosula and hindsi 

 from Texas must be erroneous. P. ariadnw, which forms another 

 group somewhat related to that of ventrosula, has been reported from 

 Texas, but it certainly has not been collected there recently. 



Polygyra oppilata implicata 'Beck' Martens. 



This is a conunon snail in the Panuco River basin. Dead shells are 

 abundant in river debris at Tampico. Living shells were found by 

 Mr. Hinkley inland. P. implicata has usually been ranked as a dis- 

 tinct species, but it diffei-s from oppilata in only trifling details. When 

 fresh the shell is sparsely hairj'. 



Mingled with implicata in the river debris, l)ut j)r()l)ai)ly from separate 

 localities or stations, there are specimens in which the upper angle 

 of the peristome is built out from the whorl, somewhat as in P. auricv- 

 lata; the two lifMeeth are slightly more devol«)|)ed, the space between 

 thorn being narrower. This form I have called /'. o. complicata. 



P. oppilata has been reporte<l from Florida (Shuttleworth), at Cedar 

 Keys (W. G. Hinney); but some similar form of P. postrlliana must 

 have been mistaken for it. Of about the same size, and belonging 

 to a closely relate<i group of species, such a mistake might easily be 

 made. * 



The Mexican group of P. uruuhuv is compose<i of species in which 




544 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADKMY OK 



[Nov 



there are two more or less compressed lip-teeth, a lamina or buttress 

 above the upper one, and a well-developed biramase parietal tooth, 

 both rami of which are strongly develoi)ed, more or less curved or 

 sinuous, and connect with the ends of the peristome, thereby differing 

 from species of the group of P. ventrosida. This group is very closely 

 related to Floridan forms, such as pustuloides, cspiloca, aurijormis, etc., 

 differing chiefly by the armatm-e of the outer lip. The following 

 species are included : 



P. aulacomphala Pils. and Hinkl. 



P. rhoadsi Pils. 



P. polita Pils. and Hinkl. 



P. oppilata Morel 



/-*. 0. iniplicata 'Beck' Marts. 



P. 0. complicata Pils. 



P. ariadnce (Pfr.) 



Eaglandina oymatophora n. sp. Fig. 3. 



The shell is cylindric-oblong, of a yellowish brown or fallow color, 

 very glossy. The apex is rounded; first 3^ whorls are smooth; the 



following whorls have short, regular folds 

 below the suture, distinct and rather strong 

 near the suture but rapidly becoming very 

 weak, the surface becoming smooth. On the 

 latter part of the last whorl strong, regular 

 folds continue to the base. The distance 

 from crest to crest of these folds is about 

 one milUmeter. Besides this sculpture, there 

 are conspicuous places of growth-arrest, 

 marked by an impressed hght line, preceded 

 by a darker streak, which follows a rather 

 wide opaque streak. There are three such 

 variceal marks on the last whorl of the type. The spire has 

 nearly straight outhnes and a well impressed suture. The 

 whorls increased slowly and regularly to the last, w'hich de- 

 scends more rapidly. The aperture is more than half the length 

 of the shell, its upper half veiy narrow. The outer lij) retracts rather 

 strongly above, and arches forward in the middle. The columella is 

 moderately concave. 



Length 38, diam. 14, length of aperture 22.5 mm. : whorls 9. 

 Side of the canyon below Las Canoas, State of San Luis Potosi. 

 Type No. 98,612 A. x\. S. P 



One Uving and two dead specimens were taken. It is quite distinct 

 from other known species by the sculpture, long spire, etc. 

 Streptostyla supracostata n. sp. Fig. 4. 

 The shell is oblong, with the aperture about half the total length, 



Pig. .3. E. cijmatophora. 




1909.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



545 



Fifl. 4. S. ■"iijmicoslala. 



spire conic, verj- obtiise at the summit; thin, corneous. First 2^ 



whorls are smooth and convex; then regular, distinct fold-like striae 



appear below the suture. These strise are a little protractive and do 



not extend quite to the suture below. On the 



last whorl there are 3 or 4 stria^ in the space of 



a milhmeter; they weaken downwards, and fade 



out below the middle of the whorl. Whorls o\ to 



5J, convex, the last slightly compressed laterally. 



convex below. The aperture is small, outer lip 



arching forward in the middle; columellar fold is 



very strong and short. 



Length 10, diam. 4.9, aperture 5 mm. 



9.6, " 4.8, " 5 " 

 State of San Luis Potosi, at the cave near San 



Dieguito; types No. 99,031 A. X. S. P. Also at 



El Abra and the canyon below La-s Canoas. 

 This is quite distinct by its comparatively 



long but ver}' obtuse spire, regular s('ul])ture 



and ver}' strong columellar fold. It is somewhat 



related to S. physodcs Shuttl. 



Slrcptoslijla hartsrhi Dall, one of the finest species of the genus, was 



taken in tlie canyon l^eiow Los Canoas. 



Streptostyla minuta n. -i>. Kir. .i. 



The sliell is oblong-conic, amber colored, somewhat traiisj)arent ; 



s[)ire long, with slightly convex outHnes and very obtuse summit. 

 Surface smooth and glossy. Wliorls 5^, slightly con- 

 vex, parted by a well-imi)ressod suture, narrowly 

 margined by ti-ansparence. The npcrture is about 

 half the tf)tal length of the shell, narrow; outer 

 margin of the peristome arched forward in the 

 middle. C'oliunella short, vrrif slrotKjh/ ticislcd, the 

 fold having a licdrili/ nilloiisKl rounded edge. The 

 erlge below the s|)iral fold is deeply concuve and 

 t hin. Length 5.5. diam. 2.3, length of aperture 2.() mm. 

 .Mountain sides of the canyon below Los Canoas, 

 State of San Luis Potosi. Type No. 9S,595 A. N. S. P. 

 This is by far the snuillest species (»f the genus 

 known. It is chiefly remarkable for the small aper- 

 ture, long spire and the very strong columellar fold. 



In size and general appearance it resembles Citchliropd hihrira. 'j'wo 



specimens were taken. 



Fip. n. S. ininiilii. 




540 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



(Nov., 



Sacoinea panaooensis n. >p. FIk. o. 



The sliell resemhles S. lutcola in sliape. is very lliin, translucent, 

 pale yellow or amber colored, rather roughly sculptured with growth- 

 wrinkles on the last whorl. There are nearly iU con- 

 vex whorls, the last having its greatest convexity below 

 the middle. Aperture oblique, ovate. 



Length 13. diam. 7.2, length of aperture 10 irim. 



14, " 8, " " " 10 " 



Pujal, Alligator and Catamas Lakes, State of San 

 Luis Potosi; types from Alligator Lake, No. 99,504 

 A. N. S. P. Also taken at Tampico in 1907. 



This specias stands between S. luteola and S. concor- 



(Jialis. It has much the contour and the pointed apex 



of luteola, but the thin, translucent shell is unlike that earthy, opaque 



species. S. concordialis differs from both by its decidedly more obtuse 



apex. It is also somewhat more convex at the base. 



The specimens from Pujal Lake are smaller and more slender than 

 the types. One measures: 



Length 12, diam. 6, aperture 8 mm. 



Fig. 6. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIKNCES OF PHILADICLPHIA. 54'i 



Dkck.mukh 7. 

 The riesident, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., 1.1..1)., in the Chan-. 



Twenty-nine pei"son.s present. 



The deaths of Henry C. Wood, a member, February 12, 1908, and 

 of George C. Harlan, M.I)., a member, September 25, 1909, were 

 announced. 



Dr. Bkn-Jamix Sharp made a communication on Early Arctic 

 N'oyages. (No abstract.) 



Decemhkr 21. 

 The President, S.\muel (I Dixox, M.D., LL.I)., in the Chair. 



Thirty-four pei^sons present. 



The fleath of William II. Jenks, a member, Fobruaiy 2, 1009, was 

 announced. 



The Publication Committee announced the reception of a paper 

 entitled "Notes on Cypriimid Fishes," by Iloury W. Fowler. 



The following was ordered to bo printed: 




548 PROCEEDINGS OF TIIF. ACADEMY OF [DcC, 



FURTHER STUDIES ON THE ACTIVITIES OF ARANEADS, II. 



1!V TIIOS. II. Mo.\T<;i)Mi:UV, .IK. 



The follnvinp; <)l)servations were made at Woods Hole, Mass., during 

 the Suninier of 1009. For the ideutificatioi) of certain species riiy 

 thanks are due to Mr. Xatlian Banks and to Prof. G. W. Peckhani. 



1. The Process of Sperm-Ixductiox. 



It will ))e recalled that Lister in 1G78 discovered that the male 

 spider in coition ai)plies his pedipalpal bulb to the genital aperture of 

 the female; and that ^lenge in 1X43 found that the male charges his 

 palpi by depositing a di-op of sperm upon a specially constructed 

 inclined sheeting, and then touching this droj) with his paljxnl organs. 

 The latter process, termed by me sperm-induction, was seen l)y Menge 

 in Linyphia, Agclena. Tapinopa and Micrommata; by Hlackwall 

 (1863) in Agelena; by Ausserer (1867) in Dictijna and Lini/phia; by 

 Bertkau (1875. 1876) in Philoica, Linyphio and Clnbiona; by West berg 

 (1900) in Linyphia; and l)y me (1903) in Tegenaria, Theridium, Dictyna 

 and two species of Lycosa. The exact literature references are given 

 in my paper of 1903;^ consequently they need not l^e repeated here. 

 The process has been observed, accordingly, in only ten genera, repre- 

 sentatives of six families, so that the following new observations on 

 representatives of two other families are not without interest. It is 

 difficult to see this act, and success is obtained only by long con- 

 tinued watching of spiders kept in cages. 



The first species to be described is the common large Attid. Phidippiis 

 purpuratus K. One male, Xo. 1524, was placed on 20 .June in a cage 

 with two females, and copulated the same day with one of them. 

 The next day he avoided his mates, and at 5.32 P.M. was seen spinning 

 a small sheeting, from the floor to the side of the cage and inclined at 

 45°; four minutes later he deposited a minute di'op of sperm upon it, 

 barely visible to the naked e3'e; then extending his body over the 

 sheeting, reached his palpi downward and backward, applying them in 

 alternation against the drop ; the palpal organs were pressed, not against 



' .Studies on tlie Habits of Spiders, particularly those of the Mating Period, 

 Proc. Acad. Xal. Sci.. Philodelphin, LV, 190.3, p. T)\). 




1909. J XATIRAL SCIFACKS OF PHILADKLPHIA. 549 



the free surface of the drop, liut agahist the revei-se surface of the 

 sheeting. At 5.43 he was interrupted by a feeding female, and he 

 moved away from the sperm-bridge with a minute droplet of sperm 

 at the ape.x of his right palpus and another left on the bridge. Another 

 (^, No. 1508, of the same species, copulated on 17 June, and the day 

 following was observed at the close of the sperm-induction at 7.10 P.M. ; 

 he had spun from one vertical wall of the cage to the other, in an angle, 

 a narrow transverse ribbon of silk, with its flattened surface in the 

 vertical plane; against this he placed hLs ventral surface, with his 

 cephalic end elevated and the abdomen flexed, applyuig hLs palpi 

 gently and alternately against that surface of the sperm-bridge directed 

 away from his body. He ceased at 7.15, went into a corner of the 

 cage and there rested quietly. With a hand lens a thui film of sperm 

 could be seen upon the bridge, and next day the spemi was found 

 with the aid of the compound microscope. The same male (1508) 

 copulated on 20 June in the morning, and at 6.20 P.M. was found 

 forming another sperm-bridge like the fii-st ; at 6.24 he dropped a 

 minute globule of sperm upon it, and then applied his palpi in alterna- 

 tion to it as in the preceding cases; this palpal application lastetl six 

 minutes, when he turned away, but he seemed to l)o prematurely 

 interrupted by the movements of a grasshopper. 



The other case was that of a male of Drassiis tirglcrtus (Keys.), 

 No. 1527. He and a 9, Xo. 1528, were caught together in a closed 

 nest on 17 June, placed in a cage, and there he l)uilt a beautiful and 

 spacioiLs saccular nest around botli. On 23 June, at 1 1.37 A.M., ho was 

 obsei-ved in nearly vertical position within this nest, moving the 

 ventral surface of hLs abdomen repetitedly against an inclined s])orm 

 bridge built agaiast the inner sm-face of the nest and with its upper 

 edge free. In half a minute he dLschargcd a droplet of sperm upon it, 

 then lowered his body to bring hLs jaws al)out on a level with the upper 

 margin of the bridge, reached his palpi over this free margin and nil)l)('d 

 them gently many times against the rcvci-se side of the sperm-bridge. 

 One i)ali)al i)ull) was thus rubbed at a time, then raised in the ;iir 

 while the other was rubbed. The application (»f the i)alpi continued 

 for 17 minutes. 



In all the cases so far descrilu'd there is (|iiii(' general uniformity 

 in the process (»f sperm-induction; a special sperm-bridge Ls spini, a 

 droplet of sperm [)laced upon it on the side next the spider's body, 

 then the palpi applied alternately against the oppf)site sid<f. The 

 cephalothoracal end is always raised. In the case of Pliiilippus, 

 No. 1508, thw act was seen twice, ej;ch time after observed copulation, 




O-'>0 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC. 



and since the pn)ces.s must have occurred before the fii-st coition, this 

 particular individual nuist have accomplished the process at least 

 three times. But I have seen no evidence that a replenishing; of the 

 palpal organ is necessary after each copulation; the charging of them 

 is generally sufficient for a number of copulations, the number probably 

 varying with their duration. 



2. The Atypical Habits of Ariadna. 



In all cases of egg-laying so far known in Araneads the process is 

 strangely uniform even though the finished cocoons may differ gi-eatly 

 in form and texture. A base is first spun, a drop of viscid secretion 

 emitted from the genital aperture upon it, the eggs discharged into 

 this drop, then a cover spun around the egg mass. I have watched 

 the details of this process in so many instances, and in such a variety 

 of forms (Aviculariids, Thomisids, Drassids, Lycosids, Epeirids, 

 Theridiids, Sicariids, Agelenids, Dictynids, Attids, Filistatids, Fisau- 

 rids), that I had come to believe it was the univei-sal process in spiders. 

 But in the interesting D3^sderid Ariadna {Pylarus) bicolor (Hentz) a 

 form was found that builds no cocoon at all, and that lays its eggs in 

 a drop of salivary secretion. 



This species is common in certain open fields at Woods Hole, where 

 it makes its nest on the under side of stones. No adult males were 

 found from early in June until the middle of September, when I ceased 

 my observations. It constructs a firm and rather tough silken tube, 

 up to nearly three inches in length in the case of large individuals, 

 quite viscid, so that foreign objects readily adhere to its outer surface. 

 Generally the tube has a single opening that flares outwards something 

 like a funnel, and has been figured and described by McCook-, but 

 sometimes there is an opening at each end, and this is not infrequent 

 in the case of nests spun in captivity. Kept in artificial cages the 

 spiders sometimes wander out of their nests at night; but for the most 

 part they remain within them, at the enlarged entrance, with the 

 three anterior pairs of legs extended forwards ready to seize prey and 

 drag it into the nest, — as well described by Hentz. ^ Frequently a 

 colony of them is found beneath a single stone, and then their nests 

 are sometimes contiguoas with each other and with those of Phidippus 

 and Drassus; but they are not strictly colonial, for they are cannibals 

 whenever an opportunity offers. In captivity they appear to spin 



' American Spiders and Their Spinning Work, Vol. II, Philadelphia, 1890. 

 * The Spiders of the United States, ed. Burges.s, Boston, 187.5. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 551 



usually between midnight and dawn. A nest is the product of several 

 days of labor and is probably added to and lengthened from time to 

 time. The spiders can barely walk upon smooth glass, even when hori- 

 zontal. They feed within their nests and remove the remains of the 

 food outside. They exhibit death-feigning to a considerable degree. 



To observe the egg-laying a number of individuals were L«?olated 

 in small viaLs; groups of othere were also placed in large cages each 

 made of two glass panes 12x8 inches, separated by a wooden frame 

 I inch thick; food could be introduced and air provided by holes in 

 the wooden frame. 



No egg masses were found in wild nests before 20 June, and the 

 individuals observed had not oviposited. 



The oviposit ion is carried out within the nest. The entire process was 

 seen in the case of two individuals, and parts of it in other instances. 

 It may be described from the case of 1534 B, caught and ))laced in a 

 cage on 26 June. On 4 July she spent the afternoon spinning against 

 the inner surface of her nest, thickening it , but making no special cocoon 

 base. At 6 P.M. she became quiet except for a movement of the 

 palpi again.st the jaws that I fii-st inteipreted as a cleaning operation, 

 but watching her attentively with a hand lens, 1 saw that both paljti 

 were flexed, their free ends rubbing her cliclicora ratiier slowly l)ut 

 regularly, and at 6.11 a minute drojxif fluid coukl be seen at theaj)ices 

 of the chelicera. The two palpi steadily continued to rub the jaws, 

 the chelicera and maxilla^ moving backwards and forwards as well 

 as opening and closing, and the droj) slowly increased in volume by the 

 addition to it of droj>lets that merged with it ; the drop was vL*<cid, liS 

 shown by its form, and evidently issued from the vicinity of the 

 mouth. Thus the drop slowly grew in size, and was slowly puslied 

 caudad beneath her cephalothorax, mitil it extended like an ovate 

 I)earl from the month back to the anterior border of the abdomen; it 

 was transparent at the jjeriphery. but more opa(|ue in the centre, 

 while the newly issuing droplets, to l)e addc<l to it , wen- all transparent. 

 Consequently the o[)acity of the interior may have been due to a 

 change in consistency. This process lasted continuously from (i.ll to 

 ()..'i7, then the abdomen was (|uickly flexed downward slightly. an«l the 

 viscid drop suddenly clouded— due to sufcrssive discharge of the eggs 

 into it. This discharge of the eggs occupied almost .'? mimitcfj. 'I'lie 

 spider then conmienced to sway her body slowly back and forth o\('r 

 the egg mass in the drop, and contijiuetl to do so for almost vin hour. 

 This movement was the attempt to free her chelicera and the ventrnl 

 surface of her cephalothorax from the surface of the viscid drop. The 




552 I'KOriOEDINGS OF Tin; Af'ADKMY OF [Ooc.. 



spider was liorizoiital, doi-suni upponnost , the feet fixed a<i;aiiist the 

 inner surface of the nest. 



Another female (1534 C) occupied the time from 7.45-8.16 I'.M. 

 to produce the viscid drop. Another one (1534 D) worked from 

 5.54-6.32 P.M. to make the drop, occupied 5 minutes in tlie dL^cliarjie 

 of the eggs into it, then took more than an hour to free hei'self from it. 



In not a single instance of the egg masses laid in captivity (13 cases) 

 was either a special base spun for the egg mass or a cover spun around 

 it. The inner surface of the nest serves as a base, there Is no silken 

 cover, but the eggs are held together insecurely by the hardening of 

 the salivary drop; insecurely, because the egg mass readily rolls out of 

 the nest, and the eggs are easily shaken apart by light handling. 



It remains to be determined just what glands furnish the viscid 

 drop into which the eggs are discharged. It may be composed of a 

 secretion issuing from the mouth, or from the unpaired gland of the 

 rostnmi or the salivary glands of the maxillary plates.^ 



Of the 13 timed egg masses deposited in captivity, 8 were made 

 between 6 and 8 P.M., 3 about 5 P.M., and only 1 in the early morning. 



The time from egg laying to hatching Is unusually long in this species, 

 at least for eggs laid in the summer.'^ If we consider as hatching the 

 tmie when the spiderlings fii-st commence locomotion, the 8 timed 

 cases in Ariadna presented time intervals between egg laying (in last 

 week of June and fii-st week of July) and hatching of from 63-70 days. 



Not more than one egg mass was made l^y any of my capti\es, and 

 to test whether any individuals may oviposit twice in the same j'ear 

 I caught on 22 August 9 females, each from a nest with a single mass 

 of eggs or young, and kept them together in a large cage until 12 Septem- 

 ber, but no further eggs were laid. Since the first eggs are laid after 

 the middle of June and do not hatch until September, and since the 

 middle of September brings in cooler weather, it seems probable that 

 they oviposit only once in a year — a condition rare in spiders. 



It is general, though not invariable, that at the time of oviposit ion 

 the spider closes the entrance to the nest by spinning over it, and all 

 my captives that had so closed their nests kept them sealed until 

 after the young had hatched. How long the young remain in the nest 

 after hatching was not determined. But wild spiders, in natural 



* On tlie glands in the vicinity' of the motith cf. o.spccially: Plateau, 1877, 

 Recherdir-.s sur la stnutiirf de lapparfii dificstit", etc., clioz Ics AraiK'idcs dipiioii- 

 mone.s. Bull. Arad. lioij. Jielg. (2), 14; and licrtkaii, 1SS4, N'ordauungsapparat 

 der Spinnen, Cf/rrespfmdenzbl. Saturh. Ver. preumt. Rheinlandc. 



* In certain Epeirids, whose eggs are laid in the autinnn, hatching does not 

 take place until the following spring, the cold arresting the development. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 553 



conditions, always seem to have an opening to the nest even when 

 the eggs or young are in it. 



Ariadna thus resembles its congener Dysdera in having no special 

 cocoon for the eggs.^ though both buikl nests. This would suggest 

 that the nest may be a racially older structure than the cocoon, and 

 that the Dysderids may be one of the most primitive groups of living 

 araneacb^J The use of a mouth or salivary secretion to agglutinate 

 the eggs has never been seen before in spidei-s, though Bertkau (1884, 

 /. c.) has described such a process for the acarine Ixodes. 



3. The Habits of Pisauiuna. 



The PL'^aurida' closely resembles the Lycosida> in structure, but 

 differ from them in being arlwreal during the cocooning season rather 

 than terrestrial, and in currying the cocoon l)y tlie chelicera and not 

 suspended from the si)imierets. 



The fullest account of the habits of nny Pisauiid is given for the 

 European Dolomcdes fimbriatus Clerk Ijy Pappcnlicim.'* He saw the 

 cocooning only once; a spider spun a fuimel-shaped cylinder of silk, 

 the closed roof of which was the upper surface of the glass cage; "in 



the cavity so bounded the eggs were laid Innncdiately after 



theoviposition thecocoon,that was at fii"st cylindrical, took on gradually 

 the form of a hollow sphere from its continuous working by the extremi- 

 ties and the abdomen." Pappenheim does not make it clear whether 

 he saw tiie actual egg discharge and cocooning, or onl}' the fiiiLshitig 

 of the cocoon within an infundibular nest, but apparently he saw only 

 the latter. Xo other naturalist has described the cocoon-making for 

 any member of the family. 



Pisaurirm mira (VValck.), more generally know n as Ocyale {Mirnmi- 

 vuiln) nntlnla (Hentz), is miusually abujidant in the woodl.Mid at 

 Woods Hole, even at places far remoNcd from water, though those 

 kept ill cages require water daily. .Males arc very rare (I have seen 

 only one, from the collection of Mr. l*]merton), and not a single one was 

 found during the j)ast summer. The large, white, globular cocoons of 

 this species are well known, and so are the nests that the mother spins 

 around the young at the time of hatching, and have been sudicimtly 



• .^ccnnliiiK to Sinion'H .Htntctncnt conrcniiiiK Dysdmi in lii.s llUloire Xaturclle 

 den Araiyntcn. 2tl cd., 1'ari.s, IHM2, T. I, p. Ml. 



' l{iii.'«)n.s have Ixcn nTtritly pn.'^nlrd liy inc .sliciwin^; tlmt tlic t«'tnipncu- 

 inoiions .spiders (Tlicnipliosa') an- not primitive: (Jii tlir Spiniicn-t.s, etc., /'roc. 

 Aaid. .\nt. Sri. Philndrlphiu, HHI't. t 



" li«'itr;iRe zur Kfnntiii.-< d<r iJitwicklunjpiKcMcliiclito von lJoloincdi>» fimbri- 

 atus Clcrck, ZcH. ui.in. Zuol., 7t, llKJ.'i. 

 36 




554 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



described by Enierton," McCook (/. c.) and myself (1903), and have 

 been figured by the hist two. But their method of construction has not 

 yet been described, nor has any reference been made to a curi(jU8 nest 

 in which the cocoon is phiced and which may be called the "cocoon- 

 nest," in distinction from the "progeny-nest." 



The Cocoon-ncsts. — These are found most frequently, as are the 

 progeny-nests, on the poLson-ivy {Rhus toxicodendron), where three 

 terminal leaves are spun together to serve as a roof. The cocoon-nests 

 are much less frequent than the others, and most of the spiders canying 

 cocoons in their jaws are not in such nests; therefore, it is probable 

 they are vacated by the spider before the hatching of the young, for 

 I have found the majority of the nests without spiders in them. The 

 wild nests are each an arched or bellied sheeting of silk placed in the 

 shelter of the under side of three poison-ivy leaves, each such sheeting 

 varj'ing in dimensions from 1x1^ inches to about 2x2^ inches accord- 

 ing to the size of the mother (which varies greatly), and with two or 

 three apertures at its margins. Two of the spidei-s only of those that 

 formed cocoons in captivity constructed cocoon-nests, and each of 

 them not until three or four da3's after the cocoon was formed; these 

 two nests were beautiful inverted domes, fastened to the glass roofs 

 of the cages with a wide aperture beloAv of about two inches diameter. 

 The latter two nests were quite unlike the natural cocoon-nests found 

 in the woods, and seemed to represent an attempt on the part of the 

 spider to replace the roofing of i\y-leaves; it was probably a similar 

 coastruction that Pappenheim observed in the case of Dolomedes. 

 The cocoon-nests found in the state of nature are probably receptacles 

 coastructed by the spider in which to make her cocoon, and indeed 

 the most heavily pregnant female caught was taken from such a nest. 

 The Cocooning. — Spidere are found with cocooas in early June, and 

 they coastruct at least two during the summer. The cocoons vary much 

 in diameter, are held by the mother by her chelicera and pedipalpi 

 and also frequently by one or more pairs of legs, and are at the same 

 time generally fastened by a few lines to the cocoon-nest or to the plant 

 on which she lives. They are rarely left by the mother before the 

 young hatch. Nine females were kept isolated in large glass cages for 

 the observation of the cocooning; six of them made cocooas, all con- 

 structed in the early morning hours between midnight and 7 A.M. 

 This particular time of the day is unfortunate for the observer, for after 

 midnight one naturally seeks repose. But in one case a considerable 



• New England Lycosidse, Trans. Connecticut Acad. Sci., 1885. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 555 



portion of the proces.s was seen, as follow.^: Female No. 1571 was 

 caught 31 July in a natural cocoon-nest. Placed in a cage she spun 

 some lines that night, and on 2 August spun (juite a network of lines 

 from 7.30 P.M. up to 1 A.M., frequently stopping to bite lines that 

 impeded her movements and taking the relatively long period of from 

 several seconds to half a miniUe to make a line attachment. On 

 5 August at 3.10 A.M. I found her in the act of beginning the cover 

 to a freshly laid mass of eggs. She had constructed a flat scaffolding 

 of silk, inclined at an angle, extending from a twig to the wall of the 

 cage. The egg mass had been laid upon this scaft\)lding, and probable- 

 only a short time previoiLsly, for the eggs were l)ut thinly covered with 

 silk. The cocoon was not regularly circular in outline, l)ut irregularl}' 

 polygonal, and its diameter was less than the length of the spider. 

 When first seen she was holding its edges with her feet and was applying 

 the thread by raising and lowering the abdominal apex, and this 

 method she pureued throughout, which accounts for the cocoon being 

 loose in texture and with no dense outer layei-s.'" ^\^len she had 

 accomplLslied spinning the c(jver to the eggs the c<»coon had the form 

 of a plano-convex lens, Cjuite different from the spherical shaj)e when 

 fully completed. At 3.55 she commenced to free the margins of the 

 cocoon from the scaffolding l)y biting certain thieads. mainly of the 

 lower porticjn, of the scaffolding, alternating (for 10 minutes) this bituig 

 with spinning on the surface so freed. At 4.10 she fastened a line 

 from the cocoon to the rof)f, then continued her spinning. From 

 4.20-o.f)0 she was occupied in again biting the lines that held the 

 cocoon to the scaffolding, finally leaving the cocoon suspended by its 

 upper margin within a freed spaco. It had now boc(»me nearly 

 circular. 



The general process of cocooning L>^ thus as described l»y me for 

 Fycosid^, biit different in that the upper margin of the cocoon Ls left 

 attached and suspended until after it i> compieteil (in some cases this 

 attachment Ls maintained for a couple of days after\vard), whereas 

 Lycosids finish their cocoons while held beneath their bodies. 



Hdtchinff (ififl Pn>(/(ny-nr.sts. — Of thre<' cocoons made in confinement 

 (between 31 July and August) and kept to hutching, the young 

 emerged in 25. 2(5 and 30 days res|)ectivcly. The mother holds the 

 cocoon until a day or two before tiie young hatch, then waits until the 

 first yomig come out before slie makes the nest around them; none 



" It need hardly be recalled that »ucli apnliraticm of the npinnen-tn alwayn 

 produces arcliit^rtun' of .soft ron«LMtpn«'y. wliile Hweeping of tin- epinnerets 

 without elevation produces a finncr and tougher n>esh. 




556 PROCEEDINGS OF Till. .\( ADKMV OF [DeC, 



of my captives made the progeny-nest before emergence of tlic young. 

 .\j< tlio young emerge the mother Iniilds a network of lines around them, 

 she remaining on the outside of the nest, and increases the number of 

 the lines with the number of the young hatching. In this way the 

 progeny-nest, a real nui-sery, is gradually built aroimd the spiderlings 

 and the empty cocoon, the mother working on it for as nnich as three 

 da}'¥!. In natural conditions such nests are placed generally at a 

 height of about two feet above the ground, rarely as high as four feet, 

 most frequently on a terminal branch of poLson-ivy or oak, or the 

 frond of a large fern, the leaves closely spun together to form a pro- 

 tecting and hiding roof over the network of lines below. The mother 

 seems to leave the nest and wander off shortly after she has completed 

 it ; thus, on 2 August, I found about forty progeny-nests along a path in 

 the woods, and though fully half of them contained young the mother 

 was on the nest or in near vicinity to it in only two cases — and in these 

 two the young were in process of emergence from the cocoon. In the 

 one case timed the young left the nest on the ninth and tenth day 

 after hatching. 



The Mother's Abstinence from Food. — ^These relatively large spidere 

 are remarkably timorous, seeming to fear grasshoppei-s of a size that 

 much smaller sjjiders will quickly seize, and this timidity seems to be 

 increased in the periods when they are holding cocoons — possibly 

 because the maternal solicitude inhibits the da-ire for food, as it cer- 

 tainly impedes the search for it. All my captives drank water eagerly 

 each day, though still holding to the cocoon by the feet, but in most 

 cases refused all insect food until about the time when the young hatch ; 

 in most instances they made no attempt whatsoever to grasp insects 

 walking near them. Evidently it is the hunger for food that takes 

 them awa}' so soon from the progeny-nest. The ability to imdergo 

 long fasts Ls well known for the females of a number of species of 

 spiders, while males appear to need food at more frequent intervals — 

 just as they generally require more water. 



Effects of Removal of the Cocoon. — Females with cocoons, when caught 

 roughly and separated fi-om their cocoons, will frequently feign death 

 admirably, lying quite limp and suffering handling without moving. 

 \o case of death-feigning was seen in any individual holding a cocoon. 

 If the cocoon be returned to them within a few minutes they generally 

 grasp it immediately in their jaws and seek escape. But there may 

 well be individual differences in this behavior. Thus with a pencil 

 I removed the cocoon two inches away from one of my captives ; she 

 showed no death-feigning, but walked about feeling for it. When I 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. o57 



pushed it until it touched her she jumped away, and though she soon 

 thereafter felt it once or twice she each time sprang away and remained 

 quiet. I then pushed her gently so that one of her palpi rested on the 

 cocoon; she remained quiet in this position for a quarter of an hour, 

 then sxiddenly grasped it with her jaws and feet. In this case the 

 matenu'.l instinct did not seem so strong as that of self-protection. 



4. E.xPKKiMENTs TO Dp:termi.\e Whether Lycosid Spiderlixgs 



CAN E.MERGE UnAIDED FROM THE CoCOOX. 



It has previously been shown by me (190.3, /. c.) tluit Lycosid mothers 

 bite open the cocoon along the line of the junction of base and cover, 

 so as to allow the young to emerge. The following observations prove 

 conclusively that the young are unable to bite their own way out of 

 the cocoon: 



Twenty-nine cocoons were removed from as many fem;;lcs of a 

 small Pardosa, found ninning in a wood, and kept about six weeks on 

 my desk in open bottles out of the direct sunlight. In eleven of these 

 cocoons the young failed to hatch, due cither to the handling of the 

 <•< icoons or to lack of fertilization of the eggs ; while in eighteen the yo\mg 

 hatched normally, but f; iled to emerge, died and shrivelleil. In two 

 Cocoons taken from females of Li/cosa Icpida and kept in the saiiic way 

 the young also hatched, but died within the cocoons. 



."). Apparlnt .Mimicry and Stridilatiox in Certain Di^as.nids. 



(riolrcchd {'J'/i(trf/alia) hivittata (Keys.). G. pinnata Emerton. and 

 ft. crocnta (Keys.) are found fairly abundantly dining the summer 

 running on tiie ground in cloudy weather, crocnta more in open fields 

 : nd the others in shaded places in the woods. The fiivt two resemble 

 rather closely in fonn and movements the niacroergates of a large 

 mound-building ant; and the j)articular locality at which 1 found 

 hivittata and pitmnta mast abundant was within twenty feet of such 

 an ant nest.— there l)eing foimd also many wingh^s nymplis of the 

 heinipteron Ah/tlus, which also resemble this ant. This seems to 

 cf)nstitute a complex case of mimicr>'. Hut w lien t^^^^!e ants are placed 

 tog(*ther with individuals ftf (t'cnlncha they (piickly bite and kill the 

 latter, so tlwtt thf : nfs .mc not in any w.v (h'n-'wvA and tJHMc is no 

 mvmiecophily. 



In defining the genus (iiotrrchti Knu'iton states, in speaking of the 

 alxlomen: "It sf>tnetimes has a small, hard pfttch at tlie front end 

 which is of the same c(»l(>r as the rest of the back and not easily seen." 

 This I have fonnd in all three species mentioned, where it occurs at 




55S PROCEEDIVGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DoC. 



the antero-dorsal aspect of the abdomen and Is a thickened chitinous 

 plate, slightly protuberant, of oval form. \ow these species all show 

 a peculiar movement of the abdomen, such as I have never seen so 

 pronounced in any other spidei-s; the)' raise and lower the abdomen, 

 slightly rotating it on its pedicel, and continue this movement for 

 several seconds at a time. This movement is exhibited generally just 

 when the spider comes to rest after a run. and is exhibited equally by 

 both sexes. An hidividual frequently rotates the abdomen imme- 

 diately before starting on a run, on meeting another unexpectedly or 

 on coming into contact with a large living iiLsect. It Ls sometimes seen 

 when the spider is quietly cleansing itself, but not when the cage Ls 

 given a sudden rajx The hardened abdominal plate at such times rubs 

 against the posterior border of the cephalothorax; accordingly, it Is 

 a stridulation movement. But if any sound is produced it is quite 

 inaudible to the hvmian ear, and if one individual stridulates in the 

 close N'icinity of another the latter does not respond l)y any movement 

 whatsoever and therefore does not appear to be affected by an)' sound. 

 It is in no way a sexual call, for the male hunts the female and finds 

 her by touch, and neither he nor she stridulate during the mating. 

 The ants they resemble do not show this movement. 



This genus then exhibits a good case of stridulation, but if any 

 sound is produced thereby it seenLS to cause no effect on other individ- 

 uals and, therefore, is probably not perceived by them. The presence 

 of a stridulation apparatus need not imply the power of hearing in the 

 species concerned, and indeed the studies of Wagner and Pritchett seem 

 to have definitely determined that spidei-s do not possess hearing — 

 they possess in its place a most acute sense of touch. 



These spiders run with perfect ease on smooth glass. 



6. Notes ox Modes of Copulation. 



PhidippuB purpuratas K. 



The pairing was observed in 26 instances. The male stands over 

 the female, his ventral surface against her doi-sal, their heads in oppo- 

 site directions, their body axes not in the same line, but his bent 

 obliquely toward one side of her abdomen. Only one palpus is inserted 

 at a time, and one alone may be employed through the act, or the two 

 may be alternated one or more times. The female remains motionless. 

 In the cases timed the act lasted less than one hour in 5 instances, and 

 more than one hour in 9 instances, the longest noted being more than 

 8J hours continuously. It may occur in the morning (7 cases), after- 

 noon (11 cases), or after 6 P.M. (8 cases). The same pair have bee-x 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 559 



seen to mate in captivity as many as 6 successive times, as the pair 

 d" 1500 X 9 1501 with copulation on 13, 20, 21 and 28 June, and 18 

 and 21 July; the same female has been seen to mate with two males, 

 and the same male with two females. In two instances females were 

 seen to copulate after makintr the fii"st cocoon: thus 9 1519 mated 

 with 6^ 1518 on 20 and 21 June, cocooned 29 June, then mated with 

 d" 1519 A on 4 July; and 9 1521 mated with d" 1522 on 26, 27, and 

 30 June, cocooned 2 July, then mated agaui 23 July. This repetition 

 of copulation after oviposit ion is most unusual, for generally in spiders 

 the males die by the time the first cocoons are made. Equally unusual 

 is the fact that heavily pregnant females will receive males as late as 

 four and even two days before oviposition. whereas it is the rule that 

 pregnant females are extremely aggressive towards males (except in 

 Theridium). But we shall see a case in Gcotrecha pinnata of copulation 

 during cocooning. Another unusual incident, though I have described 

 elsewhere similar occurrences in some other species, was that d^ 1504 

 copulated with ^ 1505 and she moulted a few houi-s afterwards. Early 

 in June males are quite as numerous as the females, and pairs are 

 frequently obtained in the same nest beneath a stone, but males 

 decrease in number during the summer, though I captured two as late 

 as 22 AugiLst. Tlie first c' caught, Xo. 1500 on 13 June, was kept 

 continuoasly in a cage with 9 1501, and copulated with her six times 

 (the last time on 21 July), until 12 September; then I killed her, but 

 kept him, and he lived until the end of October. This longevity of a 

 male after the breeding season is without parallel in my experience. 

 In one case a male (1.504) after copulating with a slightly smaller 

 female (1505) on 1 7 June, ate her on 25 June. This is a rare happening 

 among spidei-s. though McCook (/. r.. Vol. II, p. 24) cites similar 

 instances in Epeirids and Agalenids. This male was, however, killed 

 and eaten by another female (1544) on 11 July, so was o' 1524 by a 

 gravid 9 1525. and d^ 1502 by 9 1503 (after living together for nearly 

 a mf)nth). >Five other males that were kept with females, and all of 

 whicii mated with them one or more times, died without being eaten 

 and with little or no evidence of injifr}-; they seemed to have become 

 physically weakened, and one that I gently removed from his mate 

 to use for another experiment expired a few minutes after the removal. 

 Accordingly, in this species, where the males arc about as large and 

 strong as the females, it is by no means the nilo that the males end by 

 being eaten. The matings ol)scrve<l in captivity took place in almost 

 every instance outside of nests. ' 



Drasius neg:lectas (Keys). 



\\ i»h regard to this species, common under stones in open fields 




560 PROCEEDINGS OK THE ACADKMV i)K [Hf'*'-, 



Eniertoii (/. r.) states (under the name of D. saccatus) : " In tlie early 

 summer a male and female live together in the nest, the female often 

 being immature.'' During June I found several such i)aii-s, as well 

 as males in separate nests, l)ut after that month found no more 

 males. The copulation was observed in two cases. The fh-st instance 

 concerns c^ 1510 (an unusually large individual) and ? 1511, found in 

 different nests on 7 June and placed in one cage; he was larger than 

 she. The same day copulation was observed from 5.31-5.38 P.M., 

 one palpus applied at a time, the right three times and the left once, 

 each palpus being held in the epigynum for 1-2 minutes, then with- 

 drawn for about a minute, then the same or the other palpus inserted. 

 He left her at 5.42, but returned two minutes later and inserted the 

 left palpus for 15 seconds, then he left her again and she mo\'ed away 

 five minutes later. The position of the two was about the same as 

 in Phidippus. This pair were observed again in mating attitude at 

 3.30 VM., 24 June, 8.10-8.17 P.M., 25 June, and 9.P.M., 29 June; 

 he died (not eaten by his mate) on 4 July. The other instance was that 

 of d* 1506 and 9 1507 caught in the one nest on 16 June and placed 

 together in a cage. On 23 June, at 9 A.M.,. I found him copulating 

 with his right palpus; she had moulted within the preceding half hour, 

 Avas still soft and near her old exuvia. He kept his right palpus inserted 

 for 39 minutes, and when he withdrew it she struggled away from him. 

 But he found her again, at 9.42 inserted the same palpus for a few 

 seconds, again at 9.46 for a minute, and again continuously from 9.48 

 to 10.25, when I was obliged to leave, and on my return at 11.12 they 

 were separated. Both escaped from the cage before the end of the 

 month. 



This instance of mating with a female just at the time of her moulting 

 Is interesting, for it gives the timorous male his opportunity while she 

 is helpless. It Ls probably full-grown males that seek out still immature 

 females and live with them in the same mating nest. 

 Geotrecha crocata (Key.->. 



The mating was observed only once, in the case of a female caught 

 3 August, and a male ten days previously, placed together in a small 

 cage on 4 August. In copulation the male stands over the female, 

 hLs ventral surface opposed to her dorsal, their body axes oljliquely 

 inclined, his head a little to one side of the anterior end of her abdomen. 

 One palpiLs is inserted at a time. On 4 August they were observed 

 in copulation at 7.58 P.M. (three minutes previously they were sepa- 

 rate), and he kept his left palpus inserted for two minutes, the left 

 for nearly two minutes again, the same for one minute, then the right 




1909.] NATLRAL SflKNCKS OF IMIII.ADKLI'HIA. 5(31 



for a few seconds, when she suddenly rose and he junij^ed away. She 

 moved slightly after each palpal withdrawal, and he quieted her by 

 rapid tapping with his fourth leg pair. On 7 August he died from her 

 bhe. 



Geotrecha pinnata ICmerton. 



< )nc male and three females were found running in an oak wood on 

 '•i\ July and placed in a large cage. Two copulations were observed 

 on that dav and on the next respectively, the attitude being the same 

 as in G. crocato. In the fii-st case tlie male inserted his palpi each twice 

 and successively from 5.42-5.43 P.M.. then he turned away from the 

 female, returned and inserted tlie right palpus for a few seconds, 

 tm-ned away, retin-ned and inserted each palpus once, moved off, 

 returned and inserted both once, then moved away from her again; 

 but when he sougiit her again at 5.51 she had gone off. What is 

 remarkable in thi- species is tliat the male, after one or two short palpal 

 insertions, departs an inch or more from the female, stands still for a 

 miinite or more sliaking hh jxdpi. then turns and seeks her again 

 (wholly by touch imaided liy sight), the female generally waiting 

 motionless for his rotiuii. He always mounts over her her.d. The 

 ne.xt day the same male copuh.ted in a similar fashion, from 11.35- 

 11.44 A.M.. with eight palpal insertion^. 



On 22 July five other individuals of this species were caught and 

 placed in one large cage. Two were males, one of them lacked one 

 palpus, and for convenience miy be called A, while the other perfect 

 individual we may call B; these males were combative on meeting 

 each other, but not aggressive to the females nor these to one another. 

 (T' H at 5.20 I'.M. met and copulated with a gravid female, inserting 

 his palpi about four times; then ' .X touched her. she at fii-st repulsed 

 him but half minute later accepted two palpal insertions from him: 

 at 5.30 both males were an inch away from her. Between 5,37 and 

 5.50 .she received both males in the following order: d^ A, d* A, cT B. 

 0^ A, o^ B, c^ li, o^ B, o^ A, o' A. Then she rose and moved away, 

 returned to the same place, and re|)\ilsed further advance-;. After 

 cleansing herself she began at 7.20 I'.M. to spin her cocoon. Between 

 S and 9 P.M. she was interrupted by " .\ five times, l>ut drove him 

 off each time. At 9.0() B found her and copulated, and between then 

 and 9.15 copulated eight times. Between 9.22 an<l 9.;{5 .\ made 

 five advances, but was driven away each time. , B copulated twice 

 at 9.42. and at 9.44 she repulsed ' A. 1 then kept both males away 

 from her in order to see the cocooning. This Is a very remarkable 

 case of a female accei)ting copulation fnmi two males alternately; 




562 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



and of interruption of the cocooning process by such mating. Only 

 an hour and a quarter after the last copulation she oviposited. During 

 the cocooning i?he was aggressive, raising her fore-legs, but o' H pressed 

 them down by rapid tapping and mounted over her head; the mating 

 was forced upon her against her maternal instinct. 



Prosthesima atra (llentz). 



One male and four females were caught 7 August and placed in a 

 large dish, all unable to walk on the vertical glass side. On 9 August 

 the male was seen in matmg attitute, but without palpal insertion, for 

 a quarter of an hour; this was at 5.20 P.M., and at 6.55 he was again 

 motionless upon a female, but without insertion of the palpi. Could it 

 have been that he was waiting for her to moult? On 15 August a 

 copulation was observed, the attitude as in Geotrecha; the pair was 

 first seen at 8.40 P.M. (they were not in copula a quarter of an hour 

 before), and during the succeeding 19 minutes he inserted his left 

 palpus 4 times and his right 3 times, each insertion lasting from 1 to 2 

 minutes. Another copulation was seen on 20 August at noon. 

 Misumena aleatoria (Hentz). 



Tlie male of this Thomisid is many times smaller than the female. 

 A pair were placed together in a cage on 27 August. In the copulation 

 both palpi are iaserted simultaneously, and the male is placed upon 

 the ventral surface of the abdomen of the female with lus liead pointed 

 in the same direction as hers; the ventral surfaces of the two are 

 apposed. The male, after discharge of the sperm, may remain upon 

 the female's venter or may climb to her dorsum. He continues to 

 hold to the female for astonishingly long periods, for he Ls so small and 

 nimble that she is unable to displace hun. Thus at one time he 

 remained upon her for 22 hours, even though I disturbed them by 

 removal to a bottle, and I found it difficult to push him off with a 

 pin ; at another time he remained continuously upon her from 4.57 P.M., 

 30 August, until 7.30 A. M., 1 September, when he left her, but regained 

 her at 9 A.M. and remained upon her until the following morning, when 

 she was found dead. Even her walking around the cage did not seem 

 to disturb him. Palpal insertions occupied only a small part of these 

 periods. 



Xysticas nervosus Banks. 



Two adult males and an immature female were placed in one cage 

 on 5 September. She repulsed their advances, and after moulting 

 on 11 September, was placed again with the males. One male found 

 and embraced her, then the other drove him ofT, or the first left the 




1909.] NATURAL SCIKXCKS OF PHILADELPHIA. 563 



female to fifrht the other male, and this fighting of the two males upon 

 and around her body continued for half an hour, when I separated 

 them. The next day the same fight was renewed over her motionless 

 body for 50 minutes, when the female rose and walked away, the 

 males, thereafter, avoiding her. The copulatory attitude is like that 

 of A', stomachosus, previously described l)y me (1903). The males 

 appeared as eager to fight as to mate. 



Ceratinopsis interpres Em. 



Two males and a female of this small theridiid were placed in a vial 

 on 12 July. The males were savage on meeting and grappled with 

 each other. Within a few minutes the three had spun a maze of lines. 

 Twice it happened that both males simultaneously seized an<l tried 

 to embrace the female, and once one male copulated while the other 

 endeavored to do so; in each case the female shook both off at the 

 end of a minute or two. Finally one male inserted ])oth ])alpi con- 

 tinuously for 21 minutes; their heads were in the same direction and 

 ventral surfaces apposed, the male held her with his fii-st two p;iii-s of 

 legs and iiad his head a little posterior to her epigyiuuu. 



7. Nesting and Cocooninc;. 



The architectural habits of Ariadna and Pisaurina have been 

 described above. 



Phidippas parpuratus K. 



We have mentioned that during .Juno a male and female are fre- 

 (luently found together in one ne>t, and such mating nests are well 

 known for the Attids; these are |)crhaps the same as the nests which 

 the females occupy during the Winter. B\it on bringing home such 

 pairs and placing them in cages no sucii mating nests were made, but 

 the male and the female each built a thin-walled nest with two aper- 

 tures, during which they remaui mostly only at night ; the two would 

 also use the nests interciiangeal)ly, and would usually copulate outside 

 of them. Before cocooning each of my captive females spun in 

 an angle of the cage a nuich larger, entirely closed nest, so thick-walled 

 that she can scarcely be .>-een through it, and within this spun all the 

 cocoons of one season. Whether under natural conditions, on the 

 lower side of a stone, the female wonM cinploy her mating-nest as a 

 cocoon-nest, or whetiier the two are separate structures, 1 have not 

 ascertained. The male may enter the cocoon-nest after the female 

 has made an opening to it, to copulate with her, l)ut he never remains 

 long therein, but usually spins a smaller nc^t of his own on its outer 




i>04 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY (IK [DcC, 



surface. The special cases <)l)serve(l of cocoon-nost const idctioii, 

 and of cocooniiifr. were the following;. l.')!*) nuule a thin nest on 

 28 June, and during; the night made it very thick-walled with a narrow- 

 aperture at one end. On the follo\N'ing day she was found at 1 2.30 P.M . 

 spitniing Aigdrously across a vertical circular area, of p;reater diameter 

 than her own lenjjth. of the inner surface of the nest ; this was a di.stin('t 

 cocoon-base made upon the wall of the nest. She ceased suddenlx 

 at 1.10. rested (juietly until I left at 1.30. and on my return at 2.50 

 was :. train spiiuiing on the circular base, and worked through the 

 afternoon. At 8.10 P.M. she oviposited upon the base, holding her 

 head down and her feet on the margin of the Ix.se. She remained 

 quiet luitil 8.32, when she began to spin the cover for the eggs, swinging 

 the spinnerets from side to side and revolving her position from time 

 to time; this cover-spinning contimied to the next day after 7 A..M. 

 On the 30 Jvme she left the nast for the fii-st time, from 8 July on left 

 the nest daily to hunt for food and made a second aperture for egre.ss. 

 The yovmg began to leave the nest on 15 August, and at that time I 

 found a second cocoon containing eggs Avithin the nest (the young of 

 which hatched 12 September). $ 1521 laid a mass of eggs within a 

 thin-walled nest on 2 July, but she ate them. ( )n the 26 and 27 July 

 she worked continuously spinning a perfectly closed cocoon-nest in 

 an upper corner of the cage, then from 3 P.M. on for three houi-s spun 

 a cocoon-base within it. thLs base spun in an (jbli(|uc ])osition and its 

 diameter somewhat less than her own body length. She oviposited 

 about 9 P.M. (during my absence). Next morning at 8.00 she was 

 spinning a cover, but it was still very thin; consequently there must 

 have been a long pause between the oviposit ion and cover-sjMnning. 

 She did not leave the nest until fourteen days later; and when 1 opened 

 the nest on 12 September it contained hatched young. 9 1525 was 

 found on 17 July spinning a cocoon-base within an entirely closed, 

 thick nest from 3-5 P.M.; this base was vertically inclined, extending 

 from the flor)r to the roof of the nest, not against its side. She rested 

 quietly for an hour and a quarter, spun again on the base for ten 

 minutes, then occupied eleven minutes in oviposition. Then she 

 seemed exhau.sted, and not until 10.34 began the cover-making, which 

 was completed next morning. She did not leave the nest until seven 

 days later. On 26 August she had again closed the nest, probably to 

 make another cocoon. On opening the nest 12 September I found that 

 only two eggs of the first cocoon had hatched, and none of the second. 

 These cases are given somewhat in detail, for they illustrate a con- 

 siderable range of individual difference. The cocoon-nests are viscid 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 565 



and ver}^ thick- walled, excellent homes for the young; the mother 

 closes them tightly before making each cocoon, and generally does 

 not emerge for food until a lapse of several days or even a fortnight ; 

 she always returns to them after her hunts, and remains there with the 

 young until they leave. It Ls quite probable the young of the second 

 cocoon, when it is made late m the summer, may ovenvmter in the nest. 

 Emerton says of this species (under the name of 7nystacens) -^^ 

 "The largest of the New England Attidsp . . . . It lives under stones 

 at all seasons. In winter or when moulting or laying eggs it hides in a 

 thick white bag of silk, in which the cocoons are made early iii the 

 summer. The young become nearly full grown before winter." 

 Drasius neglectus (Keys). 



Tlie-e spiilci-s, as Emerton lias noted, are to be foun<l in paii-s in 

 silken bags, and the following observations would show that such 

 mating-nests are probably always spun by the males. A pair (cT 1506, 



? 1507) were taken from a nest on 16 June and placed in a cage. 

 During that afternoon and evening he spun a thin, closed nest around 

 them both, next day copulated within it, and both remained in the 

 nest until their escape twelve days later. Another pair, :■"* 1510, 



? 1511, from separate nests were put into one cage, and the male 

 alone did th.e spinning of the nest. Another pair, o' 1527, ? 1528, 

 were taken from one nest and placed in a cage; he built u beautiful 

 and spacious saccular nest, entirely closed, in which he charged his 

 palps witli spenn and she moulted; she ate him in it tliree di\\f later. 

 Still a f(»urtli male, of another pair (' 152!). » \3'M) from one ne^t,spun 

 a mating nest. In only one case liave 1 seen the cocooning, tiiough 

 several individuals were kept under observation. 9 1530 was on 

 24 July within a cylindrical cl()^.c(l ne."^t, which was her enlargement 

 of the mating nest constructed by d' 152!); in this s|)ecies, then, the 

 mating-nr^t may i>ecome the cocoon-nest. At 7.30 A.M. I found she 

 wa.s spinning witliin the nest upon a cocoon-base, that was a horizon- 

 tally placed, slightly concave saucer of silk fastened i)y two opposed 

 edges to the j^idcs of the nest ; the beginning of this base was not seen, 

 but it must be either a modified partition of the nest or else a separate 

 structure, and in either case not a part of the wall of the nest. I wa.s 

 unfortimately f)bliged to leave before the egg-laying, ami on returning 

 at noon found tiie cocoon was completed. The cocoon is always 

 large, snow white, of a flattened biconvex slu-pe. it.s circumference 

 polygonal; the mother holds it teiiaciouHly with her feet ^ntil the 



" NVw Eiijiland Spiders of tlie Family Attidii-. Tratm. Connectirul Acail. .Scj*.. 

 8, 1S91. 




566 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF fr>ec., 



younp: enierce. tlunijili she iiuiy carry it about witliin the nost. In 

 no case have I seen the niothei"s with cocoons taking food before the 

 young hatch; the nest ls kept closed through this period, and the 

 spiders pay little attention to insects moving on its outer surface. 

 Geotrecha. 



G. crocota and G. pinnaki were not observed to make any nests in 

 confinement, while G. bivittata constructs a veiy thin, small saccular 

 nest. The conclusion of the cocooning was described by me (1903) 

 for G. (Thargalia) bivittata, and this summer I have seen the act 

 several times in the case of G. pinmita, and as follows: The cocoons 

 are dLscoidal, excessively flattened and scale-like, their free surface 

 (cover) very tough in consistency and difficult to tear open; luider 

 natural conditions they are spun against a stone, while all of the six 

 cocoons made in my glass cages were placed at the junction of the 

 floor and the side; thus they were circular discs Ijent in the middle at 

 a right angle. 9 1566 on 22 July began spinning a cocoon-base at 

 7.20 P.M. She spun slowly, sweeping the spinnerets from side to side, 

 over an area of about one and a half times her body length, at the 

 junction of the wall and the floor, so that half the base was horizontal 

 and half vertical. Half an hour later her labor had accomplished a 

 ring of pearly silk, most beautiful to behold, slightly elevated and with 

 almost no silk in the enclosed space. At 8.35 she began spinning 

 rapidly on this central space, then from 8.55-9.45 she was repeatedl.y 

 interrupted by the males A and B (as previously described) At 

 10.45 she ceased to sweep her spinnerets across the base, and instead 

 raised and lowered them in applying silk near the middle of the disc, 

 at the same time swaying her body backward and forward, thus pro- 

 ducing a central cushion of softer texture. After each spinneret 

 application the abdominal apex was elevated to a height equal to 

 about two-thirds the length of her cephalothorax, then the spinnerets 

 again applied. She ceased this abruptly at 10.57, stood over the 

 centre of the base, discharged from her genital aperture a clear globule 

 of viscid fluid upon it, and in this discharged in succession 8 large 

 yellow eggs, this whole oviposition occupying two and a half minutes. 

 But she attempted in vain to liberate herself from the viscid drop, 

 and began to eat the eggs ; this miscarriage may have been due to the 

 late copulation. In the case of another individual ( 9 1572) the work 

 on the cocoon base lasted from 9.45-10.57 P.M., the oviposition for a 

 minute and a half, and the cover-spinning from 11.00 P.M. to after 

 12.45 A.M., when I left for weariness. The first ten minutes of the 

 cover-making were occupied in carrying thread from the edge of the 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 567 



base on to and across the egg mass, with swinguig of the abdomen from 

 side to side; the remainder of the time in brushing the spinnerets to 

 and fro without raising them, which resuhed in the dense structure of 

 the outer surface of the cover. Next morning the cocoon was partly 

 covered with small debris (bits of earth and wood, fragments of in- 

 sects), and rendered much less conspicuous. The free surface of the 

 cocoon Is always furnished in this manner; it is never enclosed in a nest, 

 and the mother does not remain by it. The cocoon is not only par- 

 tially hidden in this way, but it is so closely adherent, so flattened and 

 so tough, that the eggs are most excellently protected, and this explains 

 why so few eggs are laid. Two cocoons were found with 8 eggs each, 

 and three with 9. The method of applying the foreign objects to the 

 cocoon was seen clearly in the case of two cocoons made by other 

 females during the night of 26 July, some time between 10.30 P.M. 

 and 7.30 A.M. These cocoons were placed only an inch apart, the 

 mothers did not seem to distinguish their own from the other's, and 

 proceeded to furnish either impartially. Each mother hunted around 

 the cage by touch, for small objects, carried them in the chelicera to a 

 cocoon, also found by touch (though there appeared to be some memory 

 of its situation), then dropped them upon a cocoon. Then the mothei-s 

 chewed these ol)jects into smaller particles, and agglutinated them to 

 the cocoon evidently by some .salivary secretion, and to this secretion 

 is also probably due the change in color of the cocoon surface from a 

 beautiful opaline, or pearl}-, lustre to a dull brown. 



So far as 1 know this is the fii-st instance described of the application 

 of some salivar>' secretion to the cocoon surface; very likely the l)luish 

 or greenish colors of the outer layer of Lycosid cocoons are also due to 

 a similar secretion from the mouth, for the silk employed is white, 

 and the cocoon does not change its white color until the mother holds 

 it beneath her and carefully apjilics her mouth parts to all of its surface. 

 This secretion may have the value of a varnish, a finish smoothing 

 over all irregularities, 



Phrnrolithus alarias (Hcntz). 



As l'>mertoii (ISSO) notes, this dras.-id "lives on and imder stones 

 in dry, o))eii ground and nms with great swiftness short distances at 

 a time." The spiders are much less freciucntly seen ihan tJM'ir cocoons. 

 The latter are tightly fastened to stones, scarlet in color, probably 

 due to a salivar>' secretion, much flattened and scale-like, of greater 

 diameter than the spider's length, and are sometimes covered with 

 foreign matter. Tliey are not guarded by the motlier, and it was only 




o6S PROCEKDINGS OF THP: ACADDMY OF [DgC. 



I)V keei>infr these spidei's in cajies that the makei"s of these cocoons 

 were determined. < >ne cocoon tluit I opened contained only \'.i epigs. 



Prosthesima atra (Hcnti). 



The.-^e connnon drnssids live lieneath stones in small, thin-walled 

 nests. A remarkable habit was seen on several occasions during the 

 nest-making in cages: the spider spins fii-st uj)on the floor of the cage 

 beneath her, then at intervals stands nearly vertical with the head down 

 rotating the elevated abdomen on its i)edicel, or else bending it quickly 

 from siile to side; the abdominal apex then describes circles in the air 

 with the spinnerets actively moving. This is done for a few seconds 

 at a time, and alternated irregularly with spinning on the floor. Such 

 an attitude has not been seen by me before. Is it an attempt to find 

 some roofing object against which to spin, or is it a throwing or casting 

 of a line? Emerton (/. c.) has observed that the "cocoon is flat on 

 one side, by which it is attached, and convex on the other. It is 

 white, or sometimes a little jnnk." The cocoon is sometimes, but not 

 always, thinly covered with foreign particles, and is guarded by the 

 mother, who rests upon it ; but she does not hold it nearly so tenaciously 

 as Drassus does. Wild cocoons are found first in the early part of 

 August, and sometimes two are found superimposed. 



Poecilochroa. 



A female of P. varicgata (Hentz) was placed in a vial, where she 

 made an incomplete nest at one end. On 27 July at 7.30 A.M. she was 

 standing in a small cell within this nest upon a nearly completed 

 cocoon-base; this biise was thin, roughly circular in outline, its diameter 

 about one and a half times her body length, and placed almost vertical, 

 with its margins fastened to the inner wall of the nest. She oviposited 

 upon the centre of this base from 8.02 to 8.04, then spun until 9.15 

 constructing the cover. Until 1 Septeml^er, when the young emerged, 

 the cocoon remained in the same position, attached by its edges to 

 the nest, with the mother holding it continuously. A female of 

 P. bilineata (Hentz) was caught on 11 July, and on the night of 13 July 

 made a cocoon : a flattened circular disc, placed horizontally, its diameter 

 greater than her length with outstretched legs, its color glistening 

 ivory-white with a pearly lustre. She svibsequently made a closed 

 nest around it, did not change its position, but remained upon it; she 

 left the nest for the first time four weeks later, but returned to it; the 

 young hatched 17 August. A wild cocoon of this species contained 

 22 eggs. 



Range of Architecture in Drassids.— The observations just described 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 569 



show an interesting series: Poecilochroa, which leaves the cocoon 

 attached to the nest and holds it until hatching; Drassus, which cuts 

 loose the cocoon from the nest wall. l)ut which also holds the cocoon 

 continuously until hatching: Prosthcsiina. which makes a much thinner 

 nest and holds the cocoon within it. but not tenaciously, and occa- 

 sionally places foreign objects on its surface; and Geotrecha. which 

 makes only a very slight nest {bivittata) or no nest at all (pinnata). and 

 which does not guard the cocoon, but regularly garnishes it with foreign 

 matter. The last condition k iiro])ably the most modified, for it 

 represents the loss of the maternal instinct. At the end of this series 

 the number of esgs is least. 



37 




570 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec.. 



The following lieports were ordered to be printed : 



REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY. 



It is gratifying to be able to report that, notwithstanding the impor- 

 tant and, it might be supposed, disturbing building operations of the 

 past year, the routine work of the Academy has been but little inter- 

 fered with. The October meetings, indeed, had to be omitted, because, 

 wliile the old Library Hall was dkmantled, the new Readhig Room 

 was not quite ready. The meetings of the Academy will hereafter 

 be held here, except on occasions of extraordinary and therefore large 

 attendance, when the Lecture Hall on the floor below will be avail- 

 able. Fourteen meetings were, therefore, held during the Academic 

 year, at which the average attendance was forty-four. Verbal com- 

 munications, for the most part illustrated, were made by ^lessrs. 

 F. Creighton Wellman, John W. Harshberger, F. Lynwood Garrison, 

 Philip P. Calvert, Thomas H. Montgomery, Jr., J. M. MacFarlane, 

 Henry Skinner, P^rank F. Keeley, Arthur Erwin Brown, Edwin G. 

 Conklin, Henry A. Pilsbiy, Stewardson Brown, Gilbert Xan Ingen, 

 Edwin T. \Mieny, Benjamin Smith Lyman, and the Secretary. 



Thirty-six papers have been received for publication from the 

 following authors: Henry A. Pilsbry, 4; H. A. Pilsbry and James H. 

 Ferrlss, 2; H. A. Pilsbry and E. G. Vanatta, 1; H. A. Pilsbry and 

 C. Montague Clark, 1 ; H. A. Pilsbry and Y. Hirase, 1 ; H. A. Pilsbry 

 and A. A. Hinkley, 1 ; R. V. Chamberlin, 3; Thos. H. Montgomery, Jr., 

 2; Stewardson Brown, 2; J. P. Moore, 2; John W. Harshberger, 2; 

 James A. G. Rehn and Morgan Hebard, 2; F. Creighton Wellman, 1 ; 

 Charles S. Boyer, 1 ; G. E. Crampton, 1 ; Nathan Banks, 1 ; F. J. Keeley, 

 1 ; F. W. Weymouth, 1 ; Robert T. Y'oung, 1; A. E. Verrill and A. H. 

 Verrill, 1; Burnett Smith, 1; Clarence B. Moore, 1; Ales Hrdlicka, 1 ; 

 Thomas Barbour, 1; Henry W. Fowler, 1. Twenty-nine of these 

 have appeared as portions of the sixty-first vohnne of the Proceedings ; 

 four have been returned to the authoi-s, and action has been deferred 

 on one. The two papei-s by Messrs. Moore and Hrdlicka form the 

 first part of the fourteenth volume of the quarto Jourxai.. The 

 number Ls beautifully illustrated by text figures and eight plates of 

 Indian pottery. The latter are superb specimens of color printing 

 and present as faithful a representation of the objects, themselves of 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 571 



quite unexpected beauty, as art can at present secure. The Academy 

 is indebted for this continuation of the Joukxal to tlie lil:)era]ity and 

 devotion to hi* chosen branch of science of Mr. Chirence 11 Moore. 



As evidence that the Iniilding ojjerations and movings have not 

 curtailed the work of the Publication Committee, it may be noted 

 that the L^sue of the various serials now sent out under the ausj)ices 

 of the Academy is 129 pages in excess of that of last year, which itself 

 was unusually productive. The number of illustrative plates, howexer, 

 is 38 less than reported in 1908. The record is as follows: Proceed- 

 ings, 636 pages and 27 plates; Jourxal, 252 pages and 8 ]ilates; 

 Entomological News, 444 pages and 22 plates; Transactions of 

 the American Entomological Society (The Entomological Section 

 of the Academy), 486 pages and 12 plates; Manual of Conchol(k;v, 

 250 pages and 26 plates, making a total of 2,068 pages and 95 plates. 



The index to the publications of the Academy has l)een completed 

 up to and including the vc^lume of the Proceedings for 1905. 



The short history of the Academy prepared as a contribution to 

 the Foundei-s' Week Memorial A'olume and read at the meeting of the 

 Academy held April 6 has been published. It will be issued in a 

 separate edition and distributed to membei's, correspondents and others 

 interested, in the hope that it may elicit comment, criticism and jier- 

 haps correction, which will render of moi-e permanent value the dc^tailed 

 histor>' in course oi preparation for the C'oiitcnary of the .Vcadcniy 

 in 1912. 



The accumulated stock of the Prockkdixcjs, Journal and mis- 

 cellaneous publications, held for sale and exchange, has been removed 

 from the upper story of the middle building to cases pre|)are(l for 

 storage in the basement. This is the foin-th time this material has 

 been moved to provide for the re(|uirements of other interests .since 

 the occupancy of the corner building in 1S70. It has j)een well said 

 that tliree movings are as l)ad as a fire, and it is earnestly to be hoped 

 that the present resting j)lacc will I>e permanent until the parts are 

 distributed in fulfilment of their legitimate purpose as contributions 

 to science. Incidentally an account of stock has been taken. 



Ten membei-s and five correspondents have been elected. The 

 deaths (»f fourteen members and six forrespondents have been 

 announced. .Messi-s. J. II. Austin and Heiny Pemberton have re^igne<l. 

 The loss sustained by the .Academy in the death of IIenr>' Cadwalader 

 Oiapman, so intimately concenie<l for many yeai-s with the scientific 

 and administrative interests of the society, retpiires more than passing 

 nieiitiDU, and the Recording Secretary has been charged with the 




572 PROCEKDINCS OF THK A( ADKMV OF [DeC, 



preparation of a biograpliical notice which, it is hoped, will Itc ready 

 for jiresentation early the eominp: year. 



The birth of Charles Darwin and the puhlitation of the Ori<iin oj 

 Species were fittingly commemorated by a well attended meeting on 

 February 16, at which addressa^ were made by the President. Dr. 

 Arthur Erwin Brown, and Dr. Edwin G. Conklin. 



A successful meeting of the American Museums Association was 

 held in the Academy. May lo. 



EUWAKD J. NOLAX, 



Recording Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 



During the year six correspondents of the Academy died and five 

 were elected. Those deceased are Prof. Jean Albert Gaudry, Prof. 

 Perceval de Loriol Le Fort. Prof. Rudolph Bergh, Dr. Robert E. C. 

 Stearns, Dr. Anton Dohrn and Prof. Kakichi Mitsukuri; and those 

 elected, Dr. John Mason Clarke, Dr. Robert F. ScharfT, Dr. Albert 

 Leon Charles Calmette, Dr. Sven A. Hedin and Prof. Oscar Drude. 



In accordance with the award of last year the Hayden Gold Medal 

 was, on December 11, transmitted to Dr. John Mason Clarke, and an 

 acknowledgment of the same duly received, together with an official 

 copy of a minute appreciative of the Academy's action passed by 

 Dr. Clarke's associat&s on the Board of Regents of the University of 

 the State of New York. 



Among the events of importance to the scientific world in which 

 the Academy was. invited to participate were the following: The 

 presentation of an international testimonial in honor of Amedeo 

 Avogadro, the student of the molecular constitution of gases; the 

 Fiftieth Anniverearj' of the founding of the Botanical Institute of 

 Brandenburg; the Three hundred and fiftieth Anniversary of the 

 foundation of the Univei-sity of Geneva; the Darwin Centenary exer- 

 cises of the New York Academy of Sciences; the International Congress 

 of Mining, Metallurgy and Practical Geology; the Seventeenth Inter- 

 national Congress of Americanists; the dedication exercLses of the 

 Lamarck Centenary' memorial statue in Paris; the Jubilee of the 

 Geological Society of Glasgow, and the presentation by President 

 Taft of medals in recognition of their services to leronautics to Wilbur 

 and (Jrv'ille Wright. As delegates representing the Academy at the 

 Cilasgow jubilee and the University of Geneva celebration, Sir Archi- 

 bald Geikie and Dr. Auguste Forel. l)oth correspondents, were respec- 




19()9.] NATURAL SflKXCKS OF I'HILADKLPHIA. 573 



tively a]jpoiiitcHl. Wliile no delegates were appointed to represent 

 the Academy on the other occasions, suitable letters of congratulation 

 or expressions of interest were in each case forwarded. 



As a mark of appreciation of our contribution toward defraying 

 the expenses of its project, the Lamarck Memorial Committee in Paris 

 presented the Academy with the interesting bust of the great French 

 evolutionist that now adeems the Reading Room. 



Nmnerous lettei"s and notices were answeretl or referred to the 

 proper officere of the Academy, as their nature required. 



Following is a tabulated statement of the statistics of the cor- 

 respondence for the year: 



CoM.MrXKATloNS RkcKIVF.I). 



Acknowledgingreceiptof the Academy's piit)licatioii< -09 



Transmitting publications to the Acaflemy '^'- 



llequesting oxrlianges or the supply of dpfifionfii'-^ '^ 



Invitations to learned gatherings 13 



Xotices of deatlis of scientific men 1*' 



Circulars concerning tlie administration of scientific institiitions.etc, . 10 



Biographies and pliotographs of correspondents -1 



Miscellaneous letters, 1"3 



Total received, l"'? 



CoM.MLXKATloXS 1"( )U\\ AHDKl). 



Acknowledging gifts to tlie Library, 1.109 



Acknowledging gifts to the Museum, ... *^'' 



Acknowli'dgingpliotograpiisand biograpiiies, . '■' 



Requesting the supply of deficiencies in periodicals. O.J 



I^'tters of sympatliy and congratulation, itc.. 



.Miscellaneous letters ^'^ 



Annual Reports sent to correspondents, -•'' 



Circular letters 01 



Diplomas and notices of •jfct ion of cnrri'spondiMts, l-J 



Total forwarded ^ '^-^ 



Respectfully submitted, 



J. PkkcY MnoKK. 

 ( 'nrrt sponftiin/ Srrntnn/. 



][\AH)]{y oi riii; i.ii'.RAinA.N. 



.Notwithstanding the intcrniplions ocrasionnl by the building 

 operations ami the reinov::! of the Library, the accessions for the cur- 




574 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADKMV OF 



[Dec. 



rent year exceed in number those of 19()S. Tliere have been received 

 of pamphlets and periodicals 6,256. volumes \)V.\. niajis 147. and one 

 enjrraving, makinj: a total of 7,847. 



They have been received from the followinii soiuce-s: 



StM-ietios 



I. V. Williamson Fund 



Editors 



United States Department of 



Ap-iculture 



General Appropriation 



United States Department of the 



Interior 



Authors 



James Aitken Meigs Fund 



United States Treasury Depart- 

 ment 



University of Chieago 



Thomas H. Wilson Fund 



United States Department of 



Commerce and Labor 



CJeological .Survey of Canada 



Department of the Interior of the 



Philippines 



Department of Mines, Canada. . 

 Department of Agriculture, Capo 



of Good Hope 



Botanical Survey of India 



Geological Survey of India 



Pennsylvania Department of 



Agriculture 



Ministry of Public Works. France 

 Geological Committee of Russia... 



H. A. Pilsbry 



Corp:? of Mining Engineers of Peru 



Edward .J. Xolan 



Department of Agriculture, 



Xetherland India 



United States War Department ,. 



Geological Survey of Japan 



British Mas^cum 



Geological Institute of Mexico 



International Union of American 



Republics 



Ministry of Colonization, etc., 



Bolivia 



Geological Survey of Wisconsin.... 

 Geological Survey of Western 



Aastralia 



Department of Mines, New South 



AVales 



Librar>' of Congre.ss 



Department of Agriculture in 



India 



Missi.ssippi State Geological Sur- 

 vey 



Madame Leo Errera 



Department of Mines, Victoria 



Thoma.s Biddle 



Geological .Survey of Connecticut 



2,754 MLs.souri Bureau of Geology, etc.... 3 

 2,611 CommLssionors of FLshories and 



503 Game, Massachu.s.-tts 3 



rul)lication Committee, Academy. 3 

 409 Soutli African Central Locust 



2.54 Bureau 3 



Bureau of American Ethnology.... 2 



102 Illinois Bureau of Labor Statistics 2 



1.52 .Vlbert I. of Monaco 2 



149 Special Exchange 2 



Geological Survey of Georgia 2 



42 Geological Commission, Cape of 



30 Good Hope 2 



27 Board of Scientific Advice for 



India 2 



22 New Zealand Geological Survey.... 2 



20 Due de Loubat 2 



Superintendent of Public Docu- 



18 ments, W;i,shington 2 



16 Geological Bureau, Rou mania 2 



Hawaii Agricultural Experiment 



16 Station 2 



14 Guatemalan Government 2 



14 Geological Survey of Virginia 1 



Geological Survev of Oklahoma.... 1 



13 Henrv R. Wharton 1 



13 Pliilip P. Calvert 1 



12 Department of Fisheries, Penn- 



12 sylvania 1 



12 Trustees of tlie Indian Museum.... 1 



12 William W. Keen 1 



Department of Mines, Xova 



11 Scotia 1 



9 Geological Survey of Iowa 1 



5 Geological Survey of Illinois 1 



8 Foote Mineral Co 1 



7 Department of Agriculture, 



Trindad 1 



6 Commission for the Scientific 



Exploration of the German 



Sea.s in Kiel 1 



6 Government of India I 



Commission of Mines of Carvao 



6 de Pedra, Brazil 1 



Bentliam Trustees, Kew Gardens.. 1 



5 A. E. Outerbridge, Jr 1 



4 Agricultural Faculty of La Plata.. 1 



Game Commissioners of Pennsyl- 



4 vania 1 



Geological Survey of Xew Jersey.. 1 



4 Department of Geology, Indiana . 1 

 4 Geological Commission of Por- 



4 tugal 1 



4 Colorado Geological Survey 1 



3 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 575 



Thev were distributed to the several departments of the Library as 

 follows : 



Journals 5.602 Mineralogy 23 



Agriculture 319 Medicine 25 



Geolog}- 278 Ilelminthology 22 



Botany 249 Mammalog>' _ 22 



General Natural Historj' 152 Physical Science 18 



Geography l.'iO Bibliograph}-- 17 



Voyages and Travels 117 Ichthyologj' 15 



Entomologj- 98 Chemistry 1') 



.\natoniy and Physiolog>' 73 Mathematics ^ 



Anthropology 66 Encyclopedia.s 1 



Conchologj- 36 Unclassified 29 



Omitholog}- 36 



Fifteen iiundred and seventy-ei^ht volumes have been bound since 

 the last report. 



Among the new books acquired during the year that are worthy of 

 special mention are the following: 



J. D. Hooker's Botany of the Antarctic Voyage oj II. M . Discovery 

 Ships Erebus and Terror, in seven quarto volumes. 



A complete set of thirty-two volumes of tjie periodical Kosmos, 

 pul)lLshed in Lemberg. 



Kops and Van Eeden's Flora Batavo, a complete set to date of 

 twenty-three quarto volumes. 



Unyarischc Revue from 1885 to 1895, received from the Hungarian 

 Academy of Sciences in response to an application for deficiencies. 



Jnurnnl of the Anthropological Society of Bombay. Volumes 1 to 7. 



The publications of the Scottish National Antarctic Expedition. 



Transactions of the Leicester Literary and I'hilosophical Society 

 from 1835 to 1895. 



Vohunes 1 to 13, inclusive, of Forest r;/i^/.s7 ream, completing our set 

 of that periodical. 



A set of the Jahresltcricht liber die Forlsriirittc drr physischm Wissen- 

 schnften {dcr Chemie nnd Physiologic), in thirty volumes. 



The following new journals have been added to the list : 



Archiv fiir die Ge.trhirhtr drr \(iturwis.feti.'<cliaften und Technik, 

 Leipzig. 



Zeitschrifl fur induktive Abstammungs- und Vererbungslehrc, Berlin. 



Zeitsichrift fiir Botanik. Jena. 



l)nrf\rria, Vienna. 



Mannius, Wurzburg. 



Natur, Leipzig. , 



Prfchistorische Zeitschrifl, Merlin. 



The current year is probably the uuxt important in the hlstorj-'of 




576 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC, 



the Libra ly.niaikeil. as it has been, by a radical chaiifje in tlie manner 

 of shelvinji and preserving the liooks. 



The rear portion of the building, completed chuhig the sunnner, will 

 ultimately contain seven tiers of steel stacks for the accommodation 

 of the Lilirary. The five of these now in place provide more than 

 twice the former shelfiiig, upon which approximately 120,000 volumes 

 can be placed, so that at the present rate of growth it is not likely 

 that the two additional stacks will be ret^uired during the lifetime of 

 any but the youngest membei-s of the Academy. 



The first amiful of books, a collection of Academy lists, catalogues, 

 biographies, histories and the five bound volumes of I.eidyana, was 

 carried to the new building at 4.30 VM.. August 25. The following 

 day the cases in the Reading Room were filled. After an unavoidable 

 interruption work was resumed on the 30th, and, with the help of a 

 corjjs of six reliable and intelligent men, by September 22d the books 

 were all in place, three weeks having been devoted to the work. The 

 position of the several sections of the library had been determined on 

 before the moving began, and they were placed at once where they 

 are to remain, care being taken to leave space for growth. More 

 time was, of coiu-se, thus consumed than if the books had lieen carried 

 over and piled up to await a later arrangement; but the gain in the 

 end was of importance, as the work was complete as far as it went. 

 The books were always accessible, and, as a matter of fact, the use of 

 the Librar}^ was not interfered with for a single hour. 



The cases have been numbered, and the several sections are indicated 

 by neatly lettered signs at the ends of the stacks. A printed guide 

 to the arrangement, will further assist those consulting the collection. 

 It has not, so far, been necessary to make any special legislation 

 regarding admission to the stacks. Those working in the Academy 

 seem to have no difficulty in finding what they want, and books desired 

 by casual readers are promptly supplied by the attendants. The 

 catalogues will be revised as soon as time can be secured for the work. 



There has been but one departure from the old classification: the 

 special journals have been grouped under their subject headings; 

 transactions of general societies and other publications dealing with 

 more than one branch of science being arranged geographically, as before. 



The new arrangement, although sacrificing in some minor particulars 

 the convenience so enthusiastically recognized by all who had access 

 to the old hall, is eminently satisfactor}^ Three well-lighted and 

 convenient apartments between the Reading Room and the stacks 

 have been assigned for the use of the Recording .Secretary and Librarian 

 and his Assistant. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57 < 



Tlie spacious Reading Room has been surrounded by bookcases, 

 in which are placed the books most likely to be frequently called for — 

 a portion of those on general natural history, recent accessions, dic- 

 tionaries and bibliography. With the exception of the cases for the 

 temporal"}' reception of new book^, this is more a matter of furnishing 

 than of libraiy convenience, as no difficult}^ is experienced in securing 

 any work desired from the stacks, which are sufficiently lighted by the 

 windows in ordinarily fine weather, the electric lights provided in 

 the aisles bemg required only on cloudy days and late in the afternoon. 



A room on the stairway leading to the Lecture Hall has been appro- 

 priated for the storage of duplicates and of jovunals not immediately 

 germane to the work of the Academy. 



The rooms vacated by the Librarj^ to the east of the Race street 

 entrance, have, on the recommendation of tlie Council, been assigned 

 for the use of the State Department of Healtli during the term.ijf 

 office of the present State Commissioner, the President of the Academy, 

 and are now so occupied. 



There has been no interruption of current work. Hooks have been 

 ordered, received and catalogued, exchanges have been made and 

 accessions di-^played as usual (»n the Library tallies for the use of tliose 

 compiling bibliographies or desirous of keeping up their knowledge 

 of the progress of science. 



Acknowledgment is due the A.ssistant Librarian. William J. lox, 

 for most intelligent and efficient service in the moving of the Ixjoks 

 to the new building and of the stock of publicatif)ns to the new storage 

 cases, as well as for the faithful discharge of his current duties in 

 connection with the Library and the Publication, office. 



We are indel)ted to the Free Library of Philadelphia for the loan of 

 the trucks used in the trans|)ortation of the books to the new building. 



It is believed that the portion <»f the year's work with which the 

 Library Committee and the Librarian are charge<l may bo regarde<i 

 as a subject of wann congratulation. 



Ll)\\ .\U\> .). Ndl.AN, 



Lihrnrkin. 



RKpnirr ()]■' ']']]]■: clhatohs. 



The a<l(litions ami alterations to the .Vcadfuiy huildiiigs, bcgrm in 

 the spring of 1".M).S under an appropriation of $L')<).<>(>(> from the Com- 

 monwealth of Pennsylvania, have been complete<l. 



The entrance from Race street has been ronHxIelcd and now presents 




•">7n proceedings of thk .\r\i)r.M"i oi- [Dec. 



a commamliiiu- hallway which loads diioctly to the main M\isoimi 

 huiklinjr, thmuiih the space fonnerh- occupied hv the old Lecture 

 Hall. 



The stairways in the main Museum l)uildin<;' lia\"e been removed 

 to the Nineteenth street entrance, from which a new vestibule has 

 been constructed, .shut off from the galleries of each floor 1)V fire-walls 

 and automatic fire-doors. 



On the lot situated at Nineteenth and Cherry streets, 50 x 130 feet 

 in size, has been erected a handsome fireproof building, now occupied 

 by the Hall of the Academy, the Library stack and Reading Room. 



The third floor, with the top floor of the main Museum building, 

 have been divided into a number of study rooms and laboratories. 

 All are reached by an electric elevator. 



In the old Museum all the iron cohunns have been fireproofed and 

 fire escapes provided to comply with the legal requirememts. 



New vaults for the storage of the alcoholic collections have been 

 constructed and the collections transferred to them. 



The increased room and accommodations now jM()\ided have long 

 been needed for the protection and accommodation of the invaluable 

 Library and ^luseum of the Academy and the collections of the Com- 

 monwealth of Penasylvania and the American Philosophical Society, 

 deposited in its keeping. 



At this year's se.ssion of the State Legislature an additional appro- 

 priation of $60,000 was made to the Academy, with which it is pro])osed 

 to encase the walls of the original greenstone building, which are 

 becoming badly weathered, with brick and terra cotta, and to add 

 such terra cotta facings to the middle wing as will make the entire 

 building uniform in appearance. 



The Museum, which had been closed to the public during the altera- 

 tions, was reopened early in the year, and much of the time of the 

 Museum staff has been devoted to the cleansing and rearrangement 

 of the specimens. 



A radical rearrangement has been effected on the manunal fl(jor 

 and many of the osteological specimens temporarily removed from 

 exhibit if )n. 



All the water birds were removed while the cases were bchig cleansed 

 and repainted and were then rearranged. 



The immense series of jars containing the alcoholic collections have 

 been thoroughly cleansed before being arranged in the new vaults. 



Notwithstanding this unusual amount of routine work, considerable 

 local field work was done by members of the Museum staff and several 




1909.] XATURAI. SCIKNTF.S OF PHILADELPHIA. 579 



more extended trips were made. Largely through the liberality of 

 Mr. ^Morgan Hebard. Mr. Rehn was enabled to accompany him on a 

 trip through the Western States, and a large collection of Orthoptera 

 and some other specimens were secured. 



Through the Esther Hermann Research I'uiid of the New York 

 Academy of Sciences. Mr. Stewardson Brown was <^nal)led to make 

 another botanical exploration of Bermuda during May in the interests 

 of the New York Botanic Garden and this Academy. Dr. J. P. Moore 

 spent the sunmier collecting marine invertel)rate8 at Martha's \ ineyard 

 and Woods Hole. Mr. Clarence B. Moore has continued his explorations 

 of the Indian mounds of the Southern States, and has added many 

 valuable specimens to the collection made by him since 1893. The 

 Moore collection now contain^ over 5.000 specimens, all systematically 

 arranged and labelled by Mi-. Moore. 



Among the more important accessions of the year may be men- 

 tioned the Clemens collection of Philippine birds, the Hinkley collec- 

 tion of Mexican mollusca, a collection of Brazilian insects made by 

 Miss H. B. ^[errill— all secured |by purchase— and the Conunons Her- 

 barium, an uimsually complete collection of the flora of Delaware, 

 made by Mr. Albert Commons, and presented to the Academy by his 

 nephews, Messi-s. Frank W. and Howard W. Commons. 



One mahogany and plate glass exhibition case has been adtled to 

 the l)ird hall, and forty-three storage cases and MS Schmidt insect 

 Ijoxes have l)een purchased. 



In addition Dr. J. P. Moore has cared for tlic collection (tf amielids 

 and Mr. II. W. l"owlcr the fishes, while Miss II. X. Wanllo has 

 arrangeil portions of the archifological specimens. 



To .Mr. Sam'l S.\an Pelt inthellerbariumand to Mr. M.T.Cresson.Jr., 

 in the Entomological department theCuratoi-s are indcbt('(| forvaluai)le 

 assistance. 



Specimens havo been loaned during the year to .\. S. Hitchcock, 

 C. J. Pennock. Dr. Ludwig Neiimayer. .1. II. i'leming, F, C. Baker. 

 Man-.I. Rnthbun.liobcrt Ridgway, Dr. I'aul liartsdi. H. C. Oberliolser, 

 Merritt Car}' and W. W. llggleston. 



Samikl (J. DiXON', 



Ciiralor. 



Rkport of Tin: Dkpartmf:nt of Mni.i.iscv. 



Work during the past year has been chiefly directed to ,the prepa- 

 ration, detenuinatif)n and labelling of new material added to the col- 

 lections, and to the preparation of an illu-trated monograph on the 




580 PROCEEDINGS OK THK ACADKMV UF [Uec, 



family /^;/7///(V/'r. which h;is hoen published in the Manual of Con- 

 ch olouy. 



\'en' large acces.sions of the inullusca of Louisiana and southcasteru 

 Arkansas we owe to Mr. Clarence B. Moore. .Mr. Stewardson Brown 

 has further augmented the series from Bermuda, and the study of 

 Arizona snails collected by J. H. Ferriss and the Curator lias nearly 

 reached completion; reports thereon are now in couree of jniblication 

 by the Academy. 



The shells collected by Mr. A. A. llinklpy in Mexico have l)ceii 

 deteraiined, and the new forms described in several papers, 



Mr. John B. Hendei"son, Jr., has contributed a series of Cuban shells 

 collected this year, and Dr. Arnold Ortmann gave a set of western 

 Pennsylvania freshwater mussels, especially valuable on account of 

 the rapid destruction of the faunas of these streams In* mine water. 

 A large series of mollusks from Tonkin has Ijeen pin-chased, in order 

 to afford material for comparison with those of China, Korea and 

 Japan, which the Curator is working upon. 



Accessions hardly less valuable have l)een received from many 

 correspondents of the Department, as noted in the Additions to the 

 Museum. 



II. A. PiLSBRY. 



Special Curator, Drpt. of Mollusca. 



REPORTS OF SECTKJXS. 

 Biological and Microscopical Section. 



The Section has held nine regular meetings during the yei\r, with an 

 average attendance of nuie membei-s. Ten informal meetings have 

 also been held. 



The Conservator reports the donation of six boxes of slides from the 

 estate of the late Dr. Henry C. Chapman. 



The work of the year consisted cliiefly in the exhibition and descrip- 

 tion of mounted slides and material by each member present, and in 

 the e.xchange of specimens for mounting, among which mav be 

 mentioned a valuable series of about seventy rare minerals in micro- 

 scopic ciystals distributed by Mr. Keeley. 



Among the papers presented are the following: "Microscopical 

 Image Formation," by Mr. F. J. Keeley, published in the Proceedings; 

 "The Hookworm Disease," b}' Dr. T. S. Stewart. 



Mr. Palmer described a new form of Pinnularia which he has named 

 Pinnularia socialis, found in groups of four. 




1009.] 



NATURAL 8(II:N"CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



581 



Mr. \'aii Sickel devised a new form of opaque mounting slide, and, 

 at the request of members, several thousand were manufactured 

 from his design for general use. 



Mr. SJuilze discovered several new forms of Diatoynaceoc in the Bar- 

 badoes deposit, one of which has been named and described by Mr. 

 Boyer in the Proceedings. 



Ml-. Schumo presented various specimens and ga\e a talk on Mosses, 

 illustrated with lantern slides. 



Communications were also made by Mr. Bilgram on Myxomycetes; 

 Dr. (^wen, on salt solutions; Mr. Davies, t)n various vegetable prepara- 

 tions; Mr. \'an Sickel, on the ciystallization of Platinum; Mr. Boyer, 

 on local diatoms, and by Messi-s. Keeley, Rothermel. Hay and other 

 members, on miscellaneous subjects. 



An increased interest Is apparent in the preparation of specimens 

 and in the manipulation of the microscope and nuicii original work 

 has been accomplished during tiie year. 



The officei-s for tiie vear 1010 are as follows: 



Director, 

 Vicf'-Dircctor, 

 Recorder, 



Correspojuling Secretary, 

 Treasurer. . 

 ( 'onservatur. 



J.Ciiestoii .Morris. M.D. 

 T. Chalkloy Pahiior. 

 Charles S. Boyer. 

 Silas L. Schumo. 

 Thomas S.Stewart. M.D. 

 V. J. Keeley. 

 Chaklks S. BovKii. 



Recorder. 



Ent( »M( il« •( ;i< a l Slction. 



The usual meetings of this Section have been held with an average 

 attendance of nine persons. Dining the year upwards of 3.()(M) speci- 

 mens have been added to the collection. Kight new case:< and lo.s 

 lK)xes have i>cen purchased to acconuuodate tjie growth of the cai)inet. 

 The ordei-s Hemiptera and Neuroptera and the family Tenthredinida- 

 of the order llymenoptera have been rearranged. I'art of the American 

 Hhopalocera lias been transferred to new cases. The publications of 

 the Section have been successfully continued, ( )(!c nK^-niber and 

 two associates have been elected. 



At a meeting helil December 'J.5 the following ofiicers were elected: 




<^S2 PROCEEDINt;s OF THE ACADKMY OF [DcC 



Director, 



Vice-Dircclor, 



Treasurer, 



Secretary, 



Conservator and Recorder, 



Publication Committee, 



Philip I.miront. 



H. W. Wenzel. 

 10. T. Cresson. 

 K. T. Cresson, Jr. 

 Henry Skinner, jM.D. 

 E. T. Cresson, 

 E. T. Cresson, Jr. 



Botanical Si;( tiox. 



Early in the year the work of putting the species of fiowering plants 

 into covei-s was completed, which will jn-ove not only a convenience 

 in studying, but will also secure a decrease in the possible breakage of 

 specimens. 



The most notable addition during the year has been the Albert 

 Connnons Herbarium of Delaware plants, representhig his collecting 

 during half a centuiy. It is probably the most complete series of the 

 fiora of the State, including not onl}^ the flf)wering plants and ferns, 

 but also the lower forms, fungi, etc. The collections were presented 

 to the Academy by Messi-s. Frank W. and Howard W. Commons, of 

 -MinneapolLs, Minn. 



Other donations mclude a collection of 50 species of Bucks County, 

 Pa.. Crat(B(]us from Dr. C. D. Fretz; 160 Cratcegus and other trees 

 and shrubs from the Arnold Arboretum; 250 specimens of plants from 

 the eastern United States from E. B. liartram, and smaller collections, 

 aggregating about 150 specimens, which will be noted in detail in the 

 Additions to the Museum. 



The Section has purchased 500 specimens of California and Nevada 

 plants from A. A. Heller; 40 specimens of Cratcegus from Willard W. 

 Eggleston and 100 Mexican mosses from C. G. Pringle. 



The Conservator spent the time from ]\Iay 22 to June 2 of the present 

 year in the Bermudas, where a collection of about 250 plants was made, 

 and, though not large in species, enabled him to determine some 

 uncertain records, besides adding a number to the known flora of the 

 islands. The results of this and two previous trips are embodied in 

 a paper in the current num])er of the Prockedixgs. 



The Philadelphia Botanical Club has continued to hold its meetings 

 in the herbarium of the Academy during the year, and through the 

 energ>' of its membei-s 2.100 sheets have been added to the local 

 collection, in the care of which Mr. Siimucl S. Van Pelt has continued 

 his valuah)le services as Curator. 



Acknowledgment is made of the services of Miss Ada Allen as 

 assistant in the herbarium during the 3'ear. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 5S3 



At the annual meeting of the Section the following were elected as 

 officei's for the coming year: 



Director, ...... Benjamin H. Smith. 



Vice-Director. ..... Joseph Crawford. 



Secretary am! Recorder, Charles S. AVilliamson. 



Treasurer a)id Conservator, Stewardson Brown. 



Respectfully .submitted, 



Stewardson Brown, 



Conservator. 



The Mineraloural and Geological Section. 



The Section held seven meetings in 1909, with an average attend- 

 ance of six. Communications were made by Trof. O. C. S. Carter, 

 on earth(iuakes; Dr. E. T. AMierry, on fossil plants at Holicong, Bucks 

 County, with a report on them by Dr. David \\'hite; Mr. T. C. I'almer, 

 on minute berjds at Avondale, Delaware County; B. S. Lyman, on 

 the need of instnnnental siu'veying in {)ractical geology, and on advan- 

 tages of not exaggerating the vertical scale in geological cross-sections; 

 Col, Joseph Willcox, on fossil elephants, Glyptodon, manatee and 

 horses in Florida; Mr. F. J. Keeley, on asteriated sapi)hirc from 

 Ceylon; Mks E. Walter, on sub-fossil Sequoia in San Francisco. 



The Section also met in conjunction with the Academy on the 

 evening of May 18th, and made tlcough its momboi-s throe conimmii- 

 cations to the meeting. 



There were six field e.\cui"sions of the Section, with an average 

 attendance of aljout 29. On all the excui-sions, except the third, the 

 parties visited crystalline rocks and their minerals, namely: (1) 

 Between Woodlane and Ardmoro, .Montgomery County; (2) i)etween 

 Elwyn and Newtown Scpiare, Delaware County; {'.i) Now Red rocks 

 and trapdikes, between Camp Hill and Three Tuns, .Montgomery 

 County; (4) near Moylan, Strath lla\(ii. Avondale and Cnini Creek, 

 Delaware Comity; (5) near Cynwyd, .Mill Creek and Hryn .^hiwr. 

 .Montgomery Comity; (6) near (ilen .Mills, Lenni, Chester County, and 

 Blackhorse, Delaware County. 



Besides the meetings and excursions of the Secti(»n, there was, liy 

 its invitation, a numenmsly attended meeting of geologists of the 

 northeastern part of the liiiKMl States held at the Academy on the 

 afternoon and evening of April '2'.k\, at which six highly valuable 

 communications were read, followed, the next day, by a wvy profitable 

 ficM cxcuiv-ion of '2'.\ participants, midcr the guidance of I'lof. Ha-com, 




•'l'^4 PROCKKDIN'CS OF THK ACADKMV OF [DeC, 



to typical places of pre-Cainhriaii ami early raleozoic rocks, from 

 Lafayette iij) the .Schuylkill to Xorristown. and thence to Hendei-son, 

 CJvilf Mills and liryn Mawr. 



The membei-ship of the Section has increased duriuii tlic year by 

 three associate membei-s. The field exciii-sions lead to joining it as 

 associate membei-s; and sometimes immediately, or later through 

 interest in the meetings, to becoming membei-s of the Academy. The 

 full membership Ls now 25 members and 15 associate membei-s, 40 hi 

 all. 



The following officei-s of the Section have been elected for the year 

 1910: 



Director, Benjamin Smith lA-man. 



Vice-Director, Frank J. Keeley. 



Recorder and Secretary, . . . Silas L. Schumo. 



Treasurer and Conservator, . . George Vaux, Jr.- 



Respectfully submitted by order of the Section. 



Benjamin Smith Lyman, 



Director. 



Ornithological Section. 



"Work in the Ornithological department has been seriously hampered 

 during the past year by the alterations to the top floor of the Museum, 

 which necessitated the disarrangement of most of the cases for nearlj'' 

 six months, while the demands upon the Conservator's time in looking 

 after other departments of the Museum and the absence of Mr. Rehn 

 in the West also interfered with the work of the department. 



The cases have now, however, been permanently placed, all the 

 drawers examined and the specimens arranged, while the rooms have 

 been thoroughly cleaned. 



The remainder of the Tristram and Porter collections, comprising 

 several thousand skins, have been systematically distributed, and the 

 Van der Pol collection has been catalogued, while the Limnicolce or 

 shore birds have been critically studied, reidentified and arranged 

 in standard metal cases. 



It was found necessary to remove a large part of the exhibition 

 series from the cases, so as to permit of the cleansing of both specimens 

 and cases. A portion of this work has been accomplished, and one 

 new exhibition case secured. For the study collecti(jn of skins ten 

 additional metal and four large wooden cases were procured, which 

 enables us for the firet time to place the entire study series in 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 585 



standard cases. A number of valuable additions to the collection 

 have been made during the year, the most important being the 

 Clemens specmiens from Mindanao, Philij)pine Islands. 



The Delaware Valley Ornithological Club and the reunsylvania 

 Audubon Society have held their meetings in the Ornithological 

 rooms during the year, and have done much to further tlie interests 

 of the department. To Mr. J. A. 0. Rehn the Conservator is indebted 

 for valuable assistance in labelling and cataloguing. 



The officers elected at the annual meeting, December 2, 1909. are: 



Director, ...... Spencer Trotter. M.D. 



Vice-Director, ..... (leorge Spencer ^Morris. 



Corresponding Secretary, . A\'illiam A. Shiyock. 



Recorder, ..... Stewardson Brown. 



Conservator and Treasurer, . Witmer Stf>ne. 



WriMKR Stone, 



Conservator. 



The annual election of (Officers, Councilloi-s and Membei-s of the 

 Conmiittee on Accounts to serve during 1910 was held, with the follow- 

 ing result: 



President, .... Samuel 0. 1'ixon, M.D., LI. .1>. 



Vice-Pre.sidents, ArthurEi'win Brown, Sc.D., 



Kdwin G. Conklin, PhJ)., ScI ». 



Recording Secretakv, . iulward J. Nolan,M.l). 



Corresponding Secretary, J. Percy Moore, Ph.D. 



Treasurer, . . ( loorge \'aux, Jr. 



Librarian, .... IMward J. Nolan, M.D. 



Curators, .... -Arthur Envin Brown. Sc D.. 



Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., L(..l»., 

 Henr}' A. I'il.^^br}', Sc.D., 

 Witmer Stone. 



CouxciLLOR-s to serve THREE YEARS, Philip I'. Calvort . Ph. D.. 



Thomas Piddle, M.D., 

 I'rederick Prime, 

 Frank J. Keeloy. 



CnMMirrKK on Arcou.NTs. . Charles .Morris, 



Sanuiel X. Rhoads, 

 .lohn G. RothoTTnol, * 

 Thoina.'^ IL Montgr)merv. Pli.D., 

 I rank J. Keeley. 




586 



PRKCEEDINGS OF THK ACADKMV OF 



COUNCIL lOK 1<)1(). 



[Dec, 



Ex-offirio. — Samuel CI. Dixon. M.D.. I.I..1).. Mdwin (1. Conkliii. 

 Ph.D., Sc.l).. Arthur Envin Brown. Sc-.D., Edward J. Nolan. M.D.. 

 J. Percy Moore. Ph.D.. Georjre Vaux. Jr.. Henry A. Pils])ry. So.D., 

 Witnier Stone. 



To serve three years. — Philip P. Cah ert . Ph.D., Thomas Biddle, M.I >., 

 Frederick Prime, Frank J. Keeley. 



To serve two years. — Charles B. Penro.se, M.!)., Charles Morris, 

 Henr>- Tucker. M.D., Spencer Trotter, M.D. 



To serve one year. — Thomas H. Fenton, M.D., John Cadwalader, 

 Edwin S. Dixon, Henry Skinner, M.D. 



Curator of Mollusca, 

 Assi.sTAXT Librarian, 

 Assistants to Curators- 



Assistant, . 

 Taxidermist, 

 Jessup Fund Students, 



Janitors, 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D. 

 William J. Fox. 

 Henry Skinner, M.D., 

 Stewardson Brown, 

 J. Percy Moore, Ph.D., 

 Edw^ard \'anatta, 

 Henry W. Fowler, 

 James A. G. Rehn. 

 H. Newell Wardle. 

 David N. McCadden. 

 H. Newell Wardle, 

 Ezra T. Cresson, Jr. 

 Charles Clappier, 

 Daniel Heckler, 

 James Tague, 

 Jacob Aebley, 

 Adam E. Heckler. 



ELECTIONS DURING 1909. 



Members. 



January 19. — George H. Clapp, Charles M. B. Cadwalader, Herbert 

 Fox, M.D., William Redwood Wright, Lewis W. Steinbach, M.D. 

 March 16.— William Welsh Welsh. 

 Ajyril 20. — John Gribbel, Mrs. Elizabeth B. Gribbel. 

 November 16. — Theodore de Thodorovitch , LL.D., James A. G. Rehn. 




1909.] -VATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 587 



CORRESPOXDEXTS, 



January 19. — Albert Calmette, Ph.D., of Lille; John Mason Clarke, 

 LL.D., of Albany; Sven A. Hedin, Ph.D., of Stockholm; Robert 

 F. Schai-ff, Ph.D., of Dublin. 



November 16. — Oscar Drude. of Dresden. 




588 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeP., 



ADDITIONS TO THE MUSEUM. 

 Mammat-s. 



C. R. BiEDERMAX. Skin of Civet Cat (Bassariscus aslutus flaims), Avzona 



J. G. DiLLEX. Skill of Brewer's Mole (Parascalops breweri), Bucks County, 

 Pa. 



Hebaud- Academy Expedition of 1909. One young Rabbit (Lepns sp.), 

 Montana. 



Miss Dora Keexe. Skull of Leopard {Felis pardus), Bumia. 



B. W. Orin. Skull of Woodchuck (MarmoUa monax), Chester County, Pa. 



Robert She.\rer. Skull of Horse {Equus cahallus). 



John B. Stetson Co. Skin of Duckbill {Ornithorhynchus anatinus). 



WiTMER Stone. Skull of varying Hare (Lepus americanus rirginianus), 

 Sullivan County, Pa. 



Zoologic.\l Society of Philadelphia. Specimens prepared a.s follows: 

 Mounted, Panda (Ailurus fulgens), Cape Hunting Dog {Lycaon pictus). Skin 

 and skeleton, Red Langur (Presbytis rubicundus) , Asiatic Tapir (Tapirus indicus), 

 Brazilian Ocelot (Felis chibigouazou) ; skin and skull, Fishing Cat (Felis viver- 

 rina), Senegal Galago {Galago senegalensis) ; skin, Mexican Deer (Odocoilevs sp.); 

 skeleton, European L}tix {Lynx lynx); skull, Arctic Fox {Vulpes lagopus). 



Birds. 



Miss An.n.\. Busch. Razor-billed Auk {Alea tarda), Sea Isle City, X. J. 



W. B. Crispin. European Starling {Stumus mdgaris), Salem. N. J. 



J. W. HoLMAN. Adult Black Duck {Anas rubripes) and young (mounted), 

 Tuckerton Bay, X. J. ; Black Hawk {Archibuteo lagopus sancti-johannis) , Staf- 

 ford's Forge, N. J. 



Luther D. Lovekin. Loon {Gavia imber), Wayne, Pa, 



Joshua Parker. Dovekie {Alle alle), Parkertown, N. J. 



Mlss Wiegand. Birds' eggs. 



Wm. D. Winsor. Swan {Olor columbianus) . 



ZooLOGic.'i.L Society of Philadelphia. Mounted, single wattled Cassowary 

 (Casuarius uniappeufliculatus). Skins, spotted Eagle Owl {Bubo maculosus), 

 Satin Bower-bird {Ptilonorhynchus violaceus); skin and skeleton, Cassowarj' 

 {Caffuarius casuarius); skeletons, South African Ostrich {Slruthio australis). 

 Crowned Hombill {Anthracoceros coronatus). 



Delaw.vre Valley Ornithological Club. Several nests and eggs added 

 to the local collection. 



Purchased. The Clemens collection of liirds from the Island of Mhidanao, 

 P. I. 



Reptiles and Batrachians. 



O. H. Brown. Red Salamander {Spelerpes ruber), Cape May, X. J. 



J. T. Bryan. Young Black Snake {Bascanion constrictor), Pitman, X. J. 




1909.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 589 



H. \V. Fowler. Musk Turtle (Kinostemon) and Toad (Bufo), Cape May, 

 N. J.; several collections of reptiles and amphibians, New Jersey and Penn- 

 sylvania. 



H. W. Fowler and H. L. Mather. Jr. One Frog (Ranr,). Pitman, X. J. 



H. W. Fowler and H. L. M.*.ther, Jr. Collection of reptiles, Montgomery 

 County, Pa. 



John H. Greenwood. Painted Turtle (Chrysemys picfa), Cliestertown , Md. 



B. W. Griffiths and H. W. Fowler. Collection of amphibians and reptiles, 

 Atco, X. J. 



H. W. H.A.ND and H. \\'. Fowler. Collection of reptiles and amphibians. 

 Cape May County, X. J. 



George W. Harper. I)eKay'.s Snake (Storeria dckaj/i). 



Hebard-Academy ExPEDiTif)N' OF 1909. ,Fifty-nine reptiles and batra- 

 cliians. Western United States. 



J. W. HoLJLAN. Three snakes, Stafford's Forge, X, J. 



C. J. Hunt. DeKay's Snake (Storeria dekayi), Tinicum, Pa., two Dusky 

 Salamanders (Desmognathua fusca), Frankford, Pa. 



• T. D. Kfim. Dindophis punctnius, Xew Jersey. 



H. L. Mather, Jr. Garter Snake {Thamnophis sirtalis). 



Dr. H. \. P. X'^EiL. Water Snake {Natrix sipedon), Holmesburg, Pa. 



Joseph Parker. Ground Snake (Carphophiops amoenus), Stafford's Forge, 

 X. J. 



Dr. H. a. Pilsbrv. Two Salamanders {Plethodon) and one Troo Frog {Hyla 

 pickeringi) , Bartonsville, Pa.; two Speckled Turtles (Chelopus gutlalns), Swede's 

 Run, X. J. 



Purch.\sed. Six western Painted Turtles (Ckrusemys mnrginatus). 



F^VAN Rhoads. Ribbon Snake {Thamnophis naiirita), Sussex County, X. J. 



Dr. G. S. Robisson. Two Snakes {Lampropeltis dolialux triangtilns and 

 Thamnophis sirtalis), Pennsylvania and Xew Jersey. 



Mr. W. p. Seal. Red-bcliicd Terrapin (Pscudanys nibrivenlris), Xew Jersey; 

 local Frogs and tropical Ili/lti. 



J. F. Street, ('opperliead {Agkistrodon conlortrix) , Frenchtown, X. J.: 

 Sticky Salamander (Plethodon glutinosus). King^\'ood, X. J. 



E. G. Van.vtta. Rana pipieus. Ocean City, X. J. 



Zoological Societv PnIL.^DELPHIA. Mexican Heloderma (Ilclodernui horri- 

 (liiin). 



R. W. Wehrle, S«,'veral lots of reptiles and amphil)ians from Indiana and 

 Primsylvania. 



Fishes. 



Dr. C. C. ;\nnoTr. Several collections of fiKJir-.s, liordentowii, X. J. 

 Dr. Bellows. Chub (Hemotilus huillaris), Montgomery County, Pa. 

 C. H. CoNVER. Seriola zonata. 

 W. P. Davis. Two Bti]o fowleri, Xew York. 



H. W. Fowler. Seven lots of fi.shes, Xew Jerney and Pemisyl^ania. 

 11. W. Fowler and B. W. Griffiths. Collection of fishes, Chester County, 

 Pa. 



H. W. Fowler and 11. [.. Maiiikr. Jr. Collection of fwhes, Pitman, X. J. 




•59(1 i'HO(Ki;i>iNi;s ok tiik acadkmv of . [Dec., 



H. \V. I'owLEH ami H. L. Matheh, Jk. ColU-ction of iislies, Montgomery 

 County, Pa. 



H. W. Fowler ami 1). N. McCadden. Collection of fishes. Ocean City, N. J. 



E. X. Fox. Skate (Raja ocellata), Sea Isle City, N. J. 



W. J. Fox. Eel Pout {Zoarces an{fuilloris), Sea Isle City, N. J.; Angler 

 (Lophitis); Paralichthys dcniatus. Learning, N. J.; Ecfieneis, Mugil and Leios- 

 tomus. Sea Isle City, X. J.; two Hake (Mcrlucius). 



H. W. HA>fD. One Sruttiops ocellatus. Cape May, X. J. 



H. W. Han'd. Sunfisli {Eiipoinotis) from salt water, Cape May, X. J. 



Hebard-Academy Expedition of 1909. Two] Flying Fish {Cijpselurus cali- 

 lorniensi.t), Santa Catalina Island, Cal. 



T. D. Keim and H. W. Fowler. Several collections of fishes, Pennsylvania 

 and Xew Jersey. , 



T. D. Keim. Small collection of fi.shes, Xew York. 



David McCadden. Tautog {TautogolnbruR adftpersu.s), Ocean City, N. J.; 

 Paralichtht/s den-talus. Ocean City, X. J. 



H. L. M.vfHER, Jr. Collection of fishes, Maryland. 



H. L. Mather, Jr. Petromyzon niarinus, Maryland. 



Dr. R. J. Phillips. Eiglit collections of fishes, Corson's Inlet, X. J. 



Dr. R. J. Phillips and H. W. Fowler. Small collection of fishes, Corson's 

 Inlet, X. J., and Tinicum, Pa. 



R. Potter. Two Swordfish swords, Gloucester, Mass. 



Purchased. Specimens of Dasyatis and Rnjn. 



Dr. G. S. Robixson. Spheroides maculalus. 



¥. M. SiGGiNS. Umbra, Meadville, Pa. 



Eugene .Smith. One Cut-lip Minnow (Exoglossum maxillingua) , Hoboken, 

 N. J. 



U. S. X'ational ^Iuseum. Five spechnens of Xolropis hudsoiiius sclene. 



E. G. Vanatta. Sun fish (Enneacanthus) , Chestertown, Md. 

 R. W. Wehrle. Collection of fishes, Indiana, Pa. 



H. A. W'iDDiFiELD. Cow-nosed Ray (Rhinoptera) , Great Egg Harbor, X. J. 



Insects. 



W. Beutenmueller. Six Cjiiipidae, United States. 



F. E. Blaisdell. Eight Agabus lineolus, California. 



Ignacio Bolivar. Fifty-five Orthoptera, Spain and Africa (exchange). 

 W. E. Britton. Thirty-five insects, United States. 



D. M. Castle. Eighteen Coleoptera, United States. 



A. X'. Caudell. Three Orthoptera, Georgia and Virginia. 

 Paul Cheney. One Mantis, Llorida. 



E. T. Cresson, Jr. Xinety-eight Diptera, United States; eleven Lepidoptera, 

 Xew York; seven X'europtera, Xew York; twenty-four Diptera, Xew York; 

 fifty-eight Hymenoptera, Xew York; three Odonata, Xew York; six Orthoptera, 

 Xew York; fifty insects, California. 



W. T. Davis. Fourteen Orthoptera, Xewfoundland and Xew Jersey. 

 H. T. Fernald. One Orthoptera, British Honduras. 

 H. W. Fowler. Four insects, New Jersey. 



G. M. Greene. Thirty-five Hymenoptera, Pliiladelphia; ^two hundred and 

 fifty Coleoptera, Germany. 




1909.] NATUHAL SCIKNCE.S OF PHILADELPHIA. 591 



Morgan- Hebard. Fifty-three Coleoptera, United States; one hundred and 

 twenty-four insects. United States; one hundred and forty Hynienoptera, 

 Michigan; forty-two Orthoptera, Florida; forty-four Orthoptera, .Arizona; three 

 hundred and fifty-seven Ortlioptera, Western States and Florida; thirty-two 

 Orthoptera, Colorado, Utah and Yellowstone Park. 



Hebakd and Reh.v. One thousand three liundred andsevcnty-five Orthoptera, 

 .\cademy Expedition; ton Orthoptera, United States. 



F. M. Jones. Thirty-one Ortlioptera, Bennuda. 



C. W. JoH.v.sox. Thirty-six Diptera. United States. 



R. R. Myers. Two Hymenoptera, Pennsylvania. 



PrRCH.A.sED. Five hundred and twenty-one Orthoptera, Tropical America 

 and .\frica; two hundred and fortj' Orthoptera, Para, Brazil; one hundred 

 Orthoptera, .\inboina; five hundred and twenty-five Orthoptera, Natal. 



J. A. G. Rehv. Seven Ortlioptera, Xew Jersey. 



S. A. RoHWER. Twenty Hynienoptera, Colorado. 



Hexry Ski.vxer. Twenty-one Argi/nnis, Utah; twenty-one insects, Xew 

 Jersey; eighteen Ivepidoptera, Xew Mexico; twenty-seven Lepidoptera, Xorth 

 Carolina; thirteen Lepidoptera, California; cisht Coleoptera, Pennsylvania; six 

 Satyru.i jjegaln, .Mabama. 



J. B. .Smith. One Orthoptera, Xew Jersey. 



H. .\. SuRF.\^CE. Two Lepidoptera, Pennsylvania. 



J. F. Tristan. Twenty-five Ortlioptera, Costa Rica. 



F. Weihaxd. CuatUia phila, Pennsylvania. 



H. .\. Wexzel. Four Diplotaxix, .Vrizona; two Cicada, Pliiladelphia; two 

 ( '( )leoptera , Canada . 



JoHX WooDfj.vTE. Forty-one Hymenoptera, Xew Mt-xico; ten Orthopt«'ra, 

 Xew Mexico; fourteen Xeuroptera, Xew Mexico; twenty-three Dipteni. Xew 

 Mexico; nineteen Coleoptera, Xew Mexico. 



Recent Mollu-sca. 



John A. \u.ks. Xine lots of Tahitian shells. 



Joshua Baily, Jr. Vh'iparus from lake in Fairmount Park. 



F. C B.\KER. Cotypes of Lymiura natthntahensis; Plsidium. 



Mrs. li. Baker. Polijgi/ra inmlijera, Osprej-, Horida. 



S. S. liERRY. Ix>t of Califomian fresliwater and land .shells. 



J. Che.ster Bradley. Several lots of I'isid'nun from Britisli Columltia. 



."^TEWARD.so.N Browx. Eighty-nine trays of Iieniiu<l:in shells. 



L. R. Cary. Five species shells from IVIaware and Raritan Canal. 



<;. H. Ci.Ai'i'. Five species land shells; cotype of Ilolonpirn Ixirtsrhi. 



W. II. Dai.l. Species of llalaspira, Kpirobia and .\ ju-rastdma . 



L. Iv Daniels. Pisidium and Plii/xa from .Xrizrma. 



James H. Ferriss. Two liiiiidrol and thirty-four lots of land .«.hc||s from 

 .Vrizona. 



W. H. Fn'CK. Sixteen lots of Nicaragua shells. 



H. W. Fowler, R, J. Pmillips an<l H. L. Mather. Fifteen lots Pfiin.-yl- 

 vania and New Jersey shfjls. * 



W. J. Fox. Series of eightrni inarini- mollusks from .S'a ]^\v Citv .\'. J. 



John H. ftREENWooD. Jug with oysten* emwing in ami upon it. 




•")02 PROCKEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC 



George W. Harpek. Lampsilis parvus and tetralasmus, Dallas, Texas. 



Morgan Hebaijd anrl J. A. G. Rkhn. Eleven lots of shells from Montana, 

 etc. 



J. B. He.ndek.sov, Ju. Sixty-tliree lots of Cuban land shells. 



.\. A. HixKLEY. One hundred and ninety-eight lots of Mexican sliells. 



Y. Hir.\se. Eighty-three lots of Japanese shells. 



L. A. IvEF.NK. Collection of Unionida?, Fox River, 111. 



Mrs. a. F. Kexyox. One lumdred and thirty-six lots marine moUusks 

 Australia. 



H. W. Lermoxd. Bela and Nucula from Maine. 



H. N. Lowe. Chlorostoma and Helices from California. 



JoH.v H. Matthews. Xesta citrina, AmbojTia. 



William G. M.vzYCK. Sonorella from Salt River Mountains, Arizona; 

 Ilelicelln tcrrcslris, Charleston, S. C. 



Clarence B. Moore. Two hundred and eighty-five lots of sliells from 

 Louisiana and Arkansas. 



A. E. Ortmanv. Seventy-eight lots Unionidse, Western Pennsylvania. 



W. H. Over. Twenty-five lots fresh-water shells, South Dakota. 



M.\j. J. Peile. Helix pisana and Zonitoides bermudensis, Bermuda. 



H. A. Pilsbry. One lumdred and eighty-sbc lots Arizona shells; twenty-three 

 species from Monroe County, Pa. 



Evax Rhoads. Twenty-five lots of shells from northern New Jersej^ 



S. X. Rhoads. Sixty-five lots of sliells from Adirondacks, etc. 



S. L. ScHUMo. Thirty lots of shells from Santiago, Cuba. 



Alvi.v Seale. Fifteen lots of shells from Gulf of Davao, Mindanao. 



H. H. Smith (purchased). Thirty-three lots -\labama shells. 



V. Sterki. Five species of Pupillida-. 



W1T.MER Stone. Six species of land shells from Sullivan County, Pa. 



U. S. X.^.tioxal Museu.m. ]'iviparus from Mindanao; PolygTjra from 

 Mexico. 



E. G. Vanatt.v. Six lots of shells, Pennsylvania and New Jersey. 



George Wagnkh. lanthitia exigiia, California. 



Bryant W.vlkeu. Cotypes of Planorbis bicarinatus royalensis, Lymncea 

 pilsbryana, L.petoakeycin^is and Somatogyrusrirginicus. Succinea,Vivipar us, etc. 



R. W. Wehrle. Three species land shells, Indiana County, Pa. 



H. W. Wenzel. Planorbis bicarinatus, Scotia Junction, Ont. 



J. E. Whitfield. Pcecilozonites, Bermuda. 



X. P. Willits. Six lots sliells from Santo Domingo. 



Helen Winchester. Seven species land sliells, Susquehanna, Pa. 



PURCH.\.SED. Four liundrcd and ninet\'-four species of exotic molliLsks. 



Worms. 



Stewardson Brown. Two species of Oligocliaita. 

 Dr. H. C. Ch.apm.vn. Phyllobolhrium. 

 Erich Daecke. Ascaris megalocephalus. 

 H. W. Fowler. Macrobdella decora. 



Dr. J. Percy Moore. Three hundred and twenty-nine bottles of Annelids; 

 eighteen bottles of Polychieta, California. 



Walter Pfeiffer. Blood worm (Caudina arenala), Townsend's Inlet, N. J 




1909.] NATURAL SCIF.NCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 593 



Dr. H, a. PiLSriRY. Two species of Ascaris and Oligocha^ta. 

 J. A. G. Rehx. Ascaris sp. 



E. G. Vaxatta. Lumbricus, Euchytrceus and Helodrihts. 



U. S. Natioxal Museum. Fifty-sLx bottles of Polychreta, Nova Scotia and 

 Labrador. 



Other Inv-ertebrates. • • 



Stew.vrdsox Brow'X. Two jars of Centipedes, Bermuda. 



Archie T. Campbell. Star-fish (Asterias sp.), Great Egg Harbor Bay, X. J. 



H. W. Fowler. Collection of Crustacea, Sea Side Park. X. J. 



W. J. Fox. Sea-urchin, Sea Isle City, N. J. 



H. W. IIaxd and H. "\V. Fowler. Collection of Crustacea, Cape May County, 

 X.J. 



Mrs. a. r. Kexyox. Three jars of invertoltrates. Australia; three jars of 

 Crustacea, South Australia. 



H. A. PiLSBRY. Three invertebrates, Xew Jersey. 



Dr. R. J. Phillips and H. W. Fowler. Small collection of invertebrates, 

 Corson's Inlet, N. J. 



PuRCH.vsED. Specimens of Limiilus. 



S. X^. Rho.ids. One tray of shrimps, Riverside, Cal. 



Louis H. Schmidt. Malformed claw of Crab. 



U. S. X'atioxal Museum. Seven trays of baniacles, Labrador; seven jars 

 of barnacles. South .\merica. 



R. W. Wehrle. Crayfish (Camharus) , Indiana, Pa. 



Fossils. 



Dr. J. C. -Mehriam. Skull of Catiis sp., California. 



Alax G. S.MITH. Scolithus linearis in Canil>rian quartzite. 



Dr. Stahle. Bones of Belodon. 



Joseph Willcox. Pliocene f>)ral, Osprey, Fla. 



Eth.\()L(jgical .Material. 



Mrs. Charles Schaeffer. Collection of .Vinu wearing appan-l and house- 

 liold objects; collection of clothing, personal f>niaments and basket,-? from wild 

 tribes of Formosa. 



Chas. E. Brooks. Lucayan Indian remains. 



F. Lyxwood Garrison. Specimen of pottery. Colombia. 



(^'larexce B. Moore. .\ number of specimens from Indian mounds of 

 S«)iithem StaU's, adfied to tlie Clarrnrr- \\. Moore Collection. 



Plants. 



.\rxold .XunoRETiTM. On«' liundrtd and sixtj- specimens of slirubs .md 

 trees. 



Edwiv B. Bartram. Otie himdri'd ntnl fifty plants, Eivstom United .States. 



Frank \V. and Howard \V. Commons, .Vlbert Couunons Herbariinn. 

 Plant.s of Delaware. 




594 I'KOCEEDINGS OF TIIK ACADKMY OF [DcC. 



Dr. C. D. Fhetz. Fifty Crataegus tri)in HucUs County, I'a. 

 Alfred S. Haines. Camplosorus rhizophijllus and photograph. 

 Miss Parmalee. Collection of sea weeiis. 



Philadelphia Botanical Cluh. Two thousand one liundred and sixty 

 sliects of local plants. 



S. L. ScHUMO. Fifteen West Indian plants. 

 Charles S. Williamso.n. Fifty plants. 



Academy Expeditiox to Bermuda (Stewardson Bkown). Two hundred 

 and fifty Bermudan plants. 



Hebard- Academy Expedition'. Twenty Western United States plants. 

 Bot.vnic.vl Section. Purciuised tlie followinp; collections: 



W. W. Eggleston. Forty Crataegus. 



A. A. Heller. Five hundred California and Nevada plants. 



C. G. Pringle. One hundred Mexican plants. 



.MiXKUALS. 



Morris Breithaupt. Xon-pyrites in calcite, Piiiladclpliia. 



E. S. FiTLER. Gold ore, Nevada. 



Daniel Fitler. Gold-bearing quartz, ciiuiabar ore and samples of sand 

 Charles D. Norton. Two specimens of galena. 

 Ch.\rles E. Ronaldson. Garnets in schist rock, Maine. 

 Albert Stevens. Several specimens of local rocks. 



F. Lynwood Garrison. Ten minerals, various localities. 

 A. E. Outerbridge. Series of ores from Jamaica. 



William S. Vaux Collectio.n. Seventy-five specimens of minerals, 

 purchased. 




1909.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



595 



INDEX TO GENERA, SPECIES, ETC., DESCRIBED AND 

 REFERRED TO IN THK PROCEEDINGS FOR 1909. 



Species described as 7iew are indicafed by heavy-faced, synonyms by 

 italic figures. 



Abia 



Abutilon abutilon 



AcaiitluK'tenus spinipes 



.Vcanthopt'lnia rufescens 



.\ccipiter tringilloides 



Acer rubrum 70, 71 



.\chillea millefolia 



Aciliua 6, 7 



AorididiP 130, 



.Vcrosonia bisicata 



fidclis 



gracilis 



inipqualis 



inainmillata 



obtiLsispina 



patniflLs 



.sexspinosa 



.spinosa 



trLscrrata 



A'rydium crassum 113, 



pramilatiim 



incurvatuii) 



Aft it is maciilaria 



Adrlia scKFcpita 



.Kgialitis .seniipalmata 



vocifora 



wilsoni 



•Koloplus arizonensis...- , 4fi5, 



flojran.s 112, 



ociilatiLs 



tcmiiponnis 



.l-^flculus liippocastanum. 5S, <>(). (>0, 



71. OJ. 103. 



.Vpalona :«)3. 



oo.stata 



na'via 



ponotralia 



Apalcnida- 'JOl, 



.Vpciifofcttix australifl 411, I'Jfl, 



(U'oniin 11."). 



f)rfid«'iitaii.s 



.Vglaothorax dinbolicas 



sicrratuis 413. 



-\Kriofmatlia Ix-lla 



13 Apriolimax campestris .")12 



492 hemphilli .512, .513 



217 ! h.a.slimuni 512 



195 I lipvis 512 



357 niontanus 512 



, 94 stenurui! .♦. 512. 513 



494 .\grosti.s liyemalis 303 



, 10 scabra 303 



410 Alitta 244 



213 virens 244. 245 



212 AiiHis sornilata 389. 304 



212 .\l(>])ias vulju's l((7 



212 Alsuic Ijaldwinii 401 



213 -Alteniantliera maritima 491 



212 .UydiLs .-).57 



212 .\maz()na salla-i .3.50 



213 I .\inblyc'()ryplia hiiasteca 113, 1(>S 



213 .Ainiiiocharfs occidentalis 2S2 



212 Amiiiocbarida' 2.S2 



130 .Vmmodrainus .savannanim intri- 

 410 catns .302 



131 Aiiiiiioi)liila arciiaria,382,383.385, 387 



.3.56 .\mni<itr(cha .stolli 234 



48fi Ainnicoiida' 516 



.3.56 .\iii|M'i()psLs qiiinqupfolia :iK5 



3,56 AniphictciiidiP 277 



.3.56 AiuphiiiDiiiida- 242 



466 .Ainpliipieura |M-lliicida ISl 



160 Ampliiti.niis omatus 113, 138. 424 



466 .Vinpliitritf roimsta 270 



465 Aiimla schl.-gplii 401 



70, .\iial):i-iia 107 



104 flos-aqua- var. rirrinnlis .393 



54.S Aiiaitis polynoidcs 339 



202 Ancliovia initcliilli Ht7 



302 AiKdiiiji ra'nilpii)enni.s 112, 155 



202 iiit«'Kra 4.59 



3(lti Aiiculosa r.1<». 521 



130 Aiicylus 1()7 



429 Aii(iro|K»Kon virjjiniciw Ivs 



429 Aiiplosiinus studioeus ^ 204 



476 Ani.sapiH ."iOO 



470 Anwofvrafl vittata 2.59 



20S AnLinlnbis 25 




596 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec. 



.\11L50labis anjnilipos 414 



Anodonta 539 



strplK^li 539 



Anoplodusa arizonensis 479 



Antrostoiims carolincnsis 360 



Anvphana plana 20() 



■ delicatula 200 



simplex 200 



ApoUophanes punctipes 215 



Apterygota 15 



Arachiioidea 41 



Vrainus giccanteus 356 



Arctosa luiiiuta 217 



trifida 217 



Arctostaphylos tomentosa 420 



.\j-dea oa-nilea ca^rulescens 355 



Arenaria inteqires 356 



Arethiea constricta 168 



-Vrgiope argentata 209 



personata 209 



Argyrodes americanus 205 



maculosus 205 



ArgjToneta 315 



.\riadna 553, 563 



(Pylarus) bicolor 550 



Aricia johnsoni 260 



Ariciidie 260 



Ariolimax berendti 512 



lieinphilli ashmuni 513 



h. pictus 513 



Arphia arcta 146 



luteola 146 



ramona 434 



tcporata 112, 114, 146 



-Vsclcrochcilus 283 



.\slimimella 503 



angigyra 504, 511 



bifurca 503. 504 



ohiricahuana var. varicifera... 505 



lieterodonta 503, 504, 507, 508 



kochi '. 511 



levettei 496, 503, 505-511 



l.angigyra..496, 503, 504, 510, 511 



1. bifurca 510 



1. heterodonta 504, 505, 507 



1. ursina 504, 508 



microdonta 504, 0O6 



ursiiia 503 



varicitora 496, 503-507 



walkeri 511 



\5htabula nigricans 224 



Aspidium thelypteris 394 



.\ster subulatus 380, 394 



.\sterias 336 



Ateloplus macroscelus 112, 169 



notatuf5...„ 169 



.scliwarzi 169 



Atopifhthv.s phillipsi 406 



Atriplex hastata 379, 380, 384, 398 



patulum 398 



Attid:e 220, 306 



Atj-pidfE 2l)i». :WU, 316, 317 



Aulocara rut'um 115, 146 



Autolytns 331 



Aviccniiia nitida 486 



Avi(ulariid:e 299, 300, 310, 317 



Ayslia niinuta 200 



simplex 200 



Aj-thia marila 355 



Azilea guatemalensis 208 



Baccharis glomerullfolia 486 



halimitolia, 380-384,387, 388, 391, 



398 



Baptisia tinctoria 391. 394 



Bassania a?mula 215 



Bebryce 332 



Bidens chrysanthemoides 397 



frondosa 394 



Bifidaria ashmuni 515 



cochisensis 515 



c. oligobasidon 515 



pentodon 515 



pilsbryana 515 



quadridentata 515 



tappaniana 515 



Biophytum 101 



Bittacus 22 



Blabera gigantea 27 



Blacicus hispaniolensis 361 



Blattella 116 



germanica 116 



Blattidae ...26, 35, 37, 116, 415 



Bootettix 136, 1.37 



argcntatus 112, 136, 423, 424 



punctatus 423 



Borrichia arborescens 486 



frutescens 486 



Bracliybothrium 300 



Bradasp 284 



Briza maxima 488 



Bromus unioloides 489 



Bryophyllum pinnatum 487 



Bufo columbiensis 1 298 



Buteo latlssimus 358 



tropicalis 357 



Butoroides Aurescens maculata 356 



Cacopoides 401-405 



borealis 401, 402, 403 



Cacopus 402-404 



globulosus 403 



Cakile americana 382 



edentula 382, 385 



lanceolata 486 



Callula 405 



vernicosa 402 



Calyptophilu.s frugivorus 364 



Canmula pollucida 438 



Campylacantha lamprotata 157 



vegana 157 



Canavalia obtasifolia 486 




1909.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



597 



Capitellidir 277 



Caponiidae 313 



<'arabus 29 



Carcliarias littoralis 407 



("arux albolutcscens 489 



Wmiudiana 489 



Carobia cjistanea 239 



Cassia nictitans 385 



CcntroprL?tis striatus 407 



Ceratinopsis iiiterpres 563 



Ceratites 126 



Cerylf alcyon 359 



Ceuthopliilus paucispinosus 171 



unifonui.s 114 



valgus 114, 171 



Cluctura zonaris 361 



Chaina^yce buxifolia 486 



Cheminis frederici 199 



Chenopodiuin rubrum 380 



Chimarocopliala incisa 435 



pacifica 435 



Cliioeocca bermudiana 493 



racemosa 493 



Cliiracanthium feruni 199 



Chlft'altis abdoniiiialis 113, 143 



ChlorlK-Pinidic 284 



riiordi-ilcs minor 360 



Cliortliippus rurtipt'nnis 143, 428 



Cliortopliaga viridifasciata 147 



Cliroococcus 107 



Chrvsis 13 



Clirvsopa. 10, 13, 20-23. 26. 27, 176 



■poria 20 



vulgaris 20 



Cicada 20.22 



Ciciiidcla Ifiiuiiscata 113 



Ci<uta inaculata 387, 389. 390, 398 



Cioiu'lla lubrica 497 



Circinariu conrava 512 



CircoU-'ttix 454 



rabula 4.57 



.sbaataniis 413, 456, 457 



.splondi(hi8 4.><» 



iindulatus 113, 154 



("irratiilidip 267 



Cirratuliis luxuriosua.^ 267 



spirabranchas 267 



Ci.ssu.s syci<iid«'s 492 



Cithan-xyloii r|iiarlrnnfoilare 487 



Cladiiiiii j;miair«>ri.sc 486 



mari.s(oidi-.s 391, 392. 397 



Cla<l<i|)b()ra fl.-ivesccns 392 



Clcthra altiifolia 389 



Cliiio()|<'iim minuta 412. 482 



Clubiona 518 



tigrina 199 



tristani 19H 



tri.stLs \m 



ttmiiviilvB 199 



Clubi(>iiidn> 197 



Clvnifiirlla nil)rocincta. 2.S2 



Coccygiis ma5^la^di 



miiior 



Cochlicopa lubrica 497. 515. 



Ccereba bananivora 



Coleoptera 



Columba corensis 



inornata 



leucocepliala 



Colyinbus duniiiiicus 



Couocephalus ocdden talis 



spinosus 



vicinus 



Conozoa behrensi 



sulcifrons 



Conurus chloropterus 



Convolvulus sepium 



Copojjoda 



Cordillacris afiinis 



apache 115, 139, 411, 



ciuerea 139, 



crenulata 139, 



griiuiclli 



ofcipitalis 138, 139, 



piina 



Corinna inodesta 



niucTonata 



pictipes 



ConiLs leucognaphalus 



solitarius 



Corvdalis, 22, 23, 26, 27. 29, 32. 36. 

 Covillca tridentata. 111. Ill, 423, 



Croton puuctatus 



Crotopliaga aui 



Cryptocliitou 



Ctenida? 



Ctenus convexus 



incolaus 



pcrcgriiius 



siiuiatii>es 



spiralL>< 



supinus 



Cupiciinins foliatu-s 



g'-tjizi 



grisouH 



iniiiiinus 



.salici 



Cyclosa raroli 



rouica 



index 



walckcnacri 



C\^l»is canis 



Cyiiorla .'ilbipunctatu.. 



biguttatu 



bi|)uni-tutA 



I'onigern 



lata 



l(IIIgi|M'S 



longispina 

 niftrginaiis 

 p<'<ialL>* 



359 

 359 

 545 

 364 

 40 

 357 

 357 

 357 

 355 

 475 

 475 

 475 

 445 

 446 

 ;?59 

 .390 

 107 

 425 

 427 

 425 

 140 

 425 

 425 

 139 

 198 

 198 

 198 

 361 

 361 

 176 

 124, 

 433 

 48() 

 359 

 240 

 21() 

 2U) 

 216 

 217 

 216 

 216 

 21(1 

 ■J 1 6 

 J Hi 

 ■J If. 

 21.-. 

 215 

 2<Mt 

 'Jii'.t 



JO') 

 •_'!)".> 



1117 



225 

 227 



■J2ti 



22r, 



226 



226, 




51)8 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADKMY OF 



[Dec, 



Cynorta pictipcs '2-(\ 



postioata 22<» 



tristaui 227 



Cvnortina 22S 



tarsalis 22.S 



Cvpenis altemifolius 4,S9 



iientatus 391 



d. var. ctenostachvs 394 



erythrorhizos 380, 389, 393, 394 



filic-imis 489 



flavescens 489 



nuttallii 394 



( ypris balnearia 108 



Cypseloides niger 360 



Cypselus phoenicobius 360 



Cyrene bicuspidatiis 223 



delecta 223 



dolosa 222 



flava 223 



tomiosa 223 



fiisca 223 



intorrupta 222 



inapninca 223 



pratensis 223 



Cyrtophyllicus chlonim 413, 479 



DasyatLs centroura 407 



Dasybranchu-s giganteus 279 



"glabms 280 



Da.sylirion 113 



Dendrocygna arborea 355 



Dendroica ccrnileseens 365 



coronata... 365 



discolor 365 



doniinica 365 



maculosa 365 



palmaruni 365 



tigrina 365 



vigonsii 365 



Dendn-phantes bispmosus 220 



comptus 221 



digitatus 220 



globosus 220 



lanceolatus 221 



octonotatas 221 



pallfns 221 



quadrinotatas 220 



Df-rotnifnia delicatuluni 443 



laticinctum 112, 113. 150, 444 



saussureanum 444 



Desmodiiim 67, 101 



Diapheromera 123, 126 



arizonensLs 124 



(Ceratites) bcckeri 126 



(Ceratites) bidens * 126 



calcarata.. 124 



Carolina 124 



covilleae 112 



(Ceratites) coxnlleae 126 



dolichocephala 124 



. femorata 123-125 



Diaplieromcra mcsillaiia. 112, 124-126 



pcrsiinilis 112, 123-125 



(Ccratitt's) saussiirii 12r> 



((VratiU's) tainaiilipcnsis 126 



vclici 123-125 



Dichopi'tala l)reviiiastata 112, 167 



niciiroinorplia viridLs 142 



Hictyna 304, 548 



parietalis 202 



volupis 305 



Dictynid:n 202 



Dictyophorus 1] 



Diopatra califoniica 253 



Diospyros virguiiana 493 



Diplota.xis iiuiralLs 491 



Diplotliple 300 



Dipd'iia niicratula 205 



proba 205 



DLssosteira Carolina 149 



spurcata 439 



veniLsta 440 



DLstichlLsspicata, 379,386-388,391,398 



Distylia rugosa 289 



Dodecaceria 268 



pacifica 268 



Dodona^a augustifolia 486 



Dolichognatha tuberculata 208 



Doloinodes 554 



firnbriatus 553 



Doiidia americaiia 380 



Dracotcttix californicus 410, 463 



monstrosus.. 463 



plutonius 463 



Drassida* 197, 300 



Drassus 550, 568, 509 



neglectus 549, 559, 565 



saccatiLs 560 



Drilonereis nuda 254 



Drosera 107 



filiformis 392 



linearis 392 



Drymadiisa arizonensLs 412 



Dulus dominicus 364 



DytLscus 12, 13 



Dysdera 553 



Dysderida 313 



Dy.sderina plena 196 



Echemus pedestris 197 



tropicalLs 197 



Ectatoderus borealLs 112, 172, 482 



occidentalis 482 



Ectobia 36 



Ehlersia 325 



FjUfodeiidron laneanum 492 



Elaina cherriei 361 



EleocharLs interstincta 486 



pratincola .'. 489 



Ellipos niinuta 482 



Elodca (Pliilotria) canadensis 393 



Elodcs virginica 391 




1909.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



599 



Embia 7 



Enchroma gigantoa 28 



Encoptolophus califoniicus 435 



coloradensis 147 



costalLs 148 



pallidus 43.5 



robustus 435 



:-orcliclu.s 148 



subgracili^ 43.5 



texensLs 116, 147, 435 



Endodontida; 513 



Enna velox 215 



Entichurus ferox 201 



frontalis 201 



Epeira ana.stera 211 



anpiiiiiifera 210 



l.iHda 212 



dftrimentosa 211 



doiniciliorum 211 



lu-sc-ovittata 210 



plobosa 211 



pravabilis 211 



inwrta 211 



microsoma. 211 



minima 21 1 



pallidula 210 



.«cutigera 210 



.emithi ^ 211 



snlpi>iioidps 210 



vulgarL-> 210 



Epeiridu- 206. :iO0 



P^phcnuridae „ 21 



Ephesia 332. 3.33 



pracilLs 332. 333 



pcripatu-s 333 



Ephydra 107 



Epiradu.s granulatus 214 



Epiplirapmaphora hachitana. 496, 4^8. 



499 



Eromopt'dcs albofa-sciaUi 1<)9, 489 



prarilLi tSO, 481 



Erciini'tcs piisilluis ■i'^i'i 



Krpiniis parvulas 229 



.«inuosus 23(1 



."^ubscrialLs 229 



Eriperon darrrllianus 494 



Eriophora bivariolata 210 



fdax 210 



iiiiiiax 210 



mpliiioides 21(t 



piirpiinttcpn."* 209 



EriNttix variabilLs 113, 114. 1.37 



Eropro^tl-i major 4.S.S 



Erynpiiim virpinianum 3fK). .394. .39r) 



Euroniilius fiilviw ala.skcnsLs 514 



P'.iiCf'nia monticola 486 



Knpl.Mudina cvmatophora 644 



Kiilalia 238,3.50 



(Sip«.) bifoliata 349 



gracilis 348 



Icviconuita «» S46 



Eulalia navaica 348 



nigriraaculata 344 



Euniida tubit'ormLs 342 



Evinice biannulata 249 



(Eriphyle) paloloides 24r» 



jsicilionsis 249 



viridis 246, 249 



Euiiicidiu 246 



Eunotomju^tiLs pordiodar; 278. 279 



Eupatorium adenophorum 494 



perloliatum 380 



piirpureum 389 



Euplionia nmsica 363 



Euphorbia polygonifolia 385 



Eurypelma longipes - 194 



sivmanni 194 



vagans 195 



Europis 20() 



Eurv-thoe califomica 242 



Eusvllis 330 



tubifcx 322 



Evagrus 299. 301, 303, 308, 312 



Falco columbariu.s 3.5S 



(.IdiiiiiiicciisLs 358 



si)arvL'rius 3.58 



Fonissacidae 515 



KilLstata 300, 304, 305. 308, 316 



lubcmalis.. 196, 299 



Kilistatida- 19(1 



Flal)('lligora coinmcnsalis 286 



Flaprllata lOS 



Forliciila 10. 25, 27 



Forficulida- 40. 411 



ForsytliijiviridLisima, 58,68-71,94, 1(K) 



Fou(|ui»'ria splcndens 113 



Fn-pata aquila 355 



FrontiiH'lIa communis 20() 



Fufius atronicnUirius , 195 



Fuircna s(iu;irrosa hispida 392 



Fiilpur canal i( Ilia turn 369-372 



carica 369-372 



pynun .3()9 



I'lilica amcricana 3")(i 



Kundulns luciip 407 



Fyttliotylt; maculata 412 



Galinsoga parvifloni 191 



(!:ilium aparinc 193 



l)«rmudcn.s<' 403 



(Jiilliii.ipn driicata .'{.■»(> 



< ialliniiia palcata.. liTyi't 



(Jami)nsia L'racilis „ 407 



riarnipa niprita 408 



(la.stcnicaiitlui korliL _ "213 



(VotlilypLs triclias ',H\r, 



Gcotn-clia .562. 566, .569 



(Tliarpaiia) bivittatn., .5.57, 5(Wi 



crocata .5.57. .5r(0, .5(K» 



pinnata .5.57. 55U, 560, 566. .569 



Oeotrjgon martinica 3.57 




600 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Geotrygon mnntann 357 



Cierardia niaritiiua 380 



purpurea 392, 394, 398 



Glabaris 539 



cvlindraceus 539 



strelwli 539 



(ilycera nana 259 



rugosa 259 



obtusa 394 



("ilycerida* 259 



(inaphaliuni purpureuni 494 



Ciobiosoma bosci 407 



Clomphocarpus pbysocarpus 493 



Gomphoccnis clavatus 113, 114, 143 



Gomphonema constrictuni 393 



Goniobasis livescens 528 



Gossv-pium barbadense 108 



vitifolium 108 



Grammatophora serpentina 190 



Grvllid:p 16, 34, 36. 172, 182 



(ir\-llus 14, 26, 34, 113 



alogus 112, 174 



armatus 173 



domestirus 16 



pennsylvanicus 173 



personatus 173 



vocalis 174 



Guara alba 355 



Gymnes punctatus 423 



Hadrotarsidfp 300 



Hadrotettix trifaseiatus 155 



Hahnia bimaculata 302 



Halosydna brevisetosa 240 



pulchra 240 



reticulata 241 



Hapalopus pentaloris 195 



Hartmannia speciosa. 493 



Heliastus aridus 112, 155, 460, 461 



califomicus , 460, 461 



minimus 411, 461 



Helicidaj 497 



Helicina chrysocheila 540, 541 



vanattfE 540 



Helicodiscua cigenmanni arizo- 



nensis 514 



Hemerobius 22 



Hcmipodia borealis 259 



Hemitripterus americanus 407 



Hepialus 22 



Hermellidje 293 



Hemiipu?* 300 



Hemandria spinosa 230 



Hersiliida- 201 



He.«ionid!e 243, 336 



Hesperotettix festivus 464 



meridionalis 160 



viridis 114, 159 



Heterocirrus 268 



multibranchus 268 



Heteropoda venatoria 213 



Hexathele 300 



Hibiscus moscheutos. 380, 3S7-392, 

 394, 397, 398 



Hippi.scus affrictus 148 



eorallipes 112, 148 



cupidus 148 



neglect us 438 



leprosus 148 



pardalinus 438 



Hippocampus hudsonius.... 407 



Hinindo sclateri 364 



Holospira ferrissi 512 



Homa'oganiia 18 



erratica 115, 118, 415 



subdiaphana 415 



s. moliavensis 416 



Hordeum pusillum 489 



Homiilia elegans 115, 167, 474 



Hudsonia tomentosa 382 



Huttonia 300 



llydrocotyle umbellata 390 



Hydropliilus 18 



Hvetomis fieldii 359 



Hypephcsia 333 



gracilis 333 



Hypericum canadensis 394 



Hypochilidse 312 



Hyptiotes ^ 304 



caA'atus 305 



Ictenis dominicensis 362 



Idiostatus sequalis 481 



Ilex glabra 391 



Impatiens biflora 387 



fulva 387,390 



lonornis martinica 356 



Iponifra pes-eapra2 486 



Iris versicolor 390, 394 



Ischnoptera consobrina 415 



Ischnothele guianensis 195 



Isnardia palustris 492 



Isocoma Iieteropliylla 114 



Iva imbricata 388 



Ixodes 553 



Japygidae 33 



Japyx 7, 8, 33, 36, 39, 43 



Jasminum simplicifolium 487 



Julus 7 



Juncus bufonius 490 



canadensis 391, 394-396 



debilis 394 



gerardi .....387-389, 391, 398 



Juniperus bermudiana 486, 488 



pachyphlsea... 113 



virginiana 382 



Kaloula 403-405 



verrucosa 401, 403, 404 



Kylliiiga brevifolia 486 



Lactista boscanus 149 




1909.J 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



GOl 



Lactista jjiljbosus 442 



pellepidus 149 



Lamponiis dominicus 361 



Lampsilis 532 



aztecorum 533, 537 



coyensis 538, 539 



discus 533 



fimbriata ' 533 



irid.'lla 534 



iiictallica 539 



m. ganina 539 



nioctozuiuensis 5JJ4, 538 



novaloonis 537, 539 



pfipei 535 



^<aliIlasensis „ 533 



si'tnirasa 534, 535 



sieriata 535, 530. 537 



spatulatiis 534 



streU'li 533 



tanipic'oensis 534 



undivana 53.5. 53«. 537, 539 



Lainpyris 7, 9 



I-anico lifterobranchia 270 



Lantaiia rainara 487 



iiivoliK Tata 487 



Lariiiia dirccta 212 



I^tlirodcctps 302 



Latliynis maritinius 380, 385 



Laurocerasus raroliniana 492 



Lawreiuia nanus 361 



I.rf'clif'a Miaritiina 382 



Leersia oryzoidcs 395, 397 



Ix'pida.stlniiia pipas 241 



I><?pid()notus ("I'loris 241 



Leprus cyancus 439 



glauciponnis 439 



ititrrior 438 



I.frptoccphalus ainphioxua 407 



Lfptotlirix 107 



Leucaup- acuminata 208 



frapilis 208 



liortoruni 208 



nuMTcns „» 208 



I,«-uctra 176 



Ligurot<'ttix coijuilletti 432-434 



kunze: I.TJ-434 



Liinacid.f . 512 



Liniax licrondti 512 



licmpliilli 512 



ftrtiiinis 512 



I-iuioniuin carDlinianum, 379. 3«4-.S.sr), 

 388-31U. :<<».S 



I-iiTniluM :{i », :<15 



Linypbia "ds 



Lioiiuiuiin aiitiulipcK. . 232 



l)i()llfrvi 231. '.Ml? 



roxalw _ 233 



cdriacfuni 2.'<2 



fi)\f(»latuin 2.'{2 



fnmUdc 232 



intermedium . 233 



39 



LioljuiuiMi laterale 233 



tristani 232 



Lipliistiida' 299, 316. 317 



Lipliistius 305 



binnanicus 316 



Liplioplus nioxicanus 482 



Liriodcndnm tulipifera, 57, 63, 69-71 , 92 



Litaneutria 119 



minor 415 



skinned 112, 116, 119. 416 



Litliasopsis 538 



Litlivphantes hennosa 205 



Lobelia cardiualis 389. 390 



spicata 392 



Loboptera 116 



Locusta 7 



I/opliius pLscatorius 407 



I^xigilla vidlacea 362 



Loximitris dominicensis 362 



Loxoscelcs 299-304. 306-308. 313 



rufcsccns 299 



Lucania parva 407 



Luidia 243 



Luinl)rinerid.'E 254 



LumbrinereLs erects S64, 254 



zonata g64, 254 



Lutica 3(X) 



Lycoctenus bogo tenuis 215 



Lvcoaa 306. 310, 311. 54S 



biolleyi 219 



brevitarsis 217 



brunnca „ 218 



diliitata 218 



insinnis 217 



Icpida .').57 



lonKJtarsia 217 



nionisiiui 21S 



saccata :{()9 



.sipiivrntris .- 218 



sui)fuaca 218 



tri-stani 218 



Lycosidrp 217, 306. 5.-»:i 



Lymniea 107 



pan'a 515 



LynuuridiP .")15 



LyssomancH convexa 225 



spinifiT 225 



Macliili.s 7 



Macn.xyela Vi. 43 



Mnunolla rotispirua .58,60, 00-71.98 



.Maliadiva ll-variolata 212 



.MaliKoslrara ."iO 



Miiid.iiM- disparidentata 2H2 



MaManidii- 2S2 



Mallimi.s MiO 



Malvastnirn ainrnranum •l!»2 



ManKoni ()i<'ta s 209 



s|)iiiiilit 209 



trilini-ata 209 



Mimtida* 118.415 




602 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Mantispa 12, 22 



Marphysa ralifomica 251 



stylobnuu-hiuta 249, 251-2.53 



Marpissa magna 224 



melunognatha 224 



minor 224 



Martclla lineatipes 225 



Marumba occidentalis 11.3 



Mnstigononia sejunctum 393 



Mocysniaurhonius 300 



Megalostrata fonnidabilis 198 



Melanerpes striatus 360 



Melania labiosa 523 



pluristriatus 6SS 



rubida 523, 524 



Melanoplus 161, 165 



ablutus 413 



alitudinum 113, 165 



aridus 112, 113, 115, 164, 467 



atlanis 112, 113, 164 



bivittatus 116, 166 



borckii 469 



bowditchi 112, 161, 473 



calidus 113, 114, 165 



cinereus 472 



complanatipes 472 



cyanipes 472 



devastator 466 



differentialis 116, 166 



femoratus 474 



femur-rubrum 116, 165 



flavescens 163, 466 



fuscipes 470 



glaucipes 112, 163 



gracilipes 468 



herbaceus 112, 163, 466 



ligneolus 472 



marginatus /orw pauper 473 



missioniim 469-471 



nanus 471 



pacificus .' 468 I 



quadratus 166 



eonomaensis... 468 



tenuipennis 469 



varicus 467 



Mellisuga minima 361 



Melopelia leucoptera 357 



Menticirrhus americanus 407 



Mermiria bivittata 112, 116, 131 



texana 112, 115, 131 



Mersea califomica 420 



Messua desidiopa 224 



Mestobregma fuscifrons 149 



obliterata 150 



plattei 115, 150, 153 



rubripenne 150, 442 



Metacyrba taeniola 224 



Metafecenia albolineata 202 



Metapachylus mgosus 230 



Metargyra debilis 208 



Metazygia gregalis 212 



iMi'tt'peira iabyrinthea 212 



Meterginus inermis 22^ 



signatus 228 



Metriopoliiia morosus 10(( 



zebrata 195 



Microlegia palustris 365 



Micromiiiata 548 



-Minu'tidie 206 



Mimctus rapax.. 206 



-Miinofiihla ardesiaca 366 



■ Miinus doniinicus 366 



Miogrvllus liiioatus 483 



iMif>iimcna aleatoria 562 



a.sperata 215 



Mitopus australis 231. 



Mniotilta varia 364 



Modisimus inornatus 202 



Monocraterion lesleyi 297 



Morsea califomica 449 



c. tamalpaisensis 421 



Muscinae 21 



Myiadestes montanus 366 



Myiarchus dominicensis 361 



i\Iyrica carolinensis 382, 391, 394 



cerifera 486 



Mynneleon 12, 13, 20-22 



Nagaina incunda 224 



Naineris longa 262, 264 



robusta 262 



Napaia gracilis 428 



Nasturtium officinale 394 



Navicula lewisiana 184, 190 



lyra 190 



rhomboides 184 



Neduba carinata 475, 476 



convexa 475, 476 



Nemobius mormonius 483 



neomexicanus.- 172 



utahensLs 116, 173 



Nemura 32, 33, 35-37, 176 



Nepaia gracilis 410 



Nephila clavipes 208 



Nephronaias 532 



medellimus 5SS 



Nephthydida; 243 



Nephthys ca?ca 243 



Nereida; 244 



Nereis agassizi 2^5 



(Plat3aiereis) agassizi 245 



brandti 245 



cjeca 243 



chilensis 245 



foliata 245 



procera 244 



vcxiilosa 244 



(Alitta) vexillosa 244 



virens 245 



(Alitta) virens plenidentata... 244 



Neriene bisignata 206 



convexa 20.5 




1909. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Xerit-nc emarginata 206 



gemma 206 



maculosa 206 



postica 206 



Xermm oleander..! 487 



Nomonyx dominicus 355 



Nostoc" 107 



Nothoscordium bivalve 490 



Xotoma5tus tenuis 277 



Numida meleagrLs 357 



Nvcticorax violaceus 357 



Nympha?a odorata. 391, 392. 394-396 



Ocyale (Micrommata) vindata 553 



Odont<Ksyllis phosphorea 327 



Odyncrus 13 



Oicanthus califoniious 483 



fa.sciatu.s 175 



ni veils 483 



quadripunctatus 175 



<Kdal«onotus truncatus 470 



nulicnemus dominicensis 356 



<Kdipoda 7 



(Knotlicra biennis 380. 387 



Onuphidie 253 



Oonopidjr 196 



Opeia imperfecta 137, 138 



obscura 138 



testacea 142. 425 



Opliiodromus 243, 336 



Opsanustau 407 



Opuntia vulgaris 382 



Orclieiimum minor 479 



Oreohi'lix 511 



strigfisa concentrata 497, 511 



s. Iniiicliiicaiiu 496, .')12 



Orpluilella alfinis 428 



compta 427 



peliana 142 



picturata 142 



Oscillaria 107 



Osmunda cinnamomea 389, 486 



spectal)ili8 486 



Oxvopeidon putum 219 



Oxyopid.T 219 



Paclivcheilus 5:i.S 



atrntus 521, 522, 524 -.VJS 



a. ganinu.«i 525 



a. Biiprastriatus 526, .VJS 



dalli 519. .531 



ganinus 527 



humerosns 621, 622, 525, 520 



moctf zumcnsis 622 



monachus 527 



pila 521. 522, 523. .VJf, 



p. pilula 522 



y)l( iirotonin 519, ,529. 530 



pluribtriatn.s . 519. .VJ.T. 524 



p. I<>ngu.'< 524. .')25 



p. tama.sopensia ; 524 



Patliyclieilus saussurei 



suturulis 529, 



tristis 522 



vallesensis 52S, 



v. attenuatus 



Pacliylomerus rugosus 



Palpimanidaj 



Palpinus hevis 



Paludestrma stearnsiana 



Paludiiui 



Paludomas 519, 



Pandion haliaetos 



Panicum crus-galli....39l. 392. 394, 



virgatum 380, 386-392, 



Panorpa 



Papavcr rlweas 



Paral)acillu.s 



coloradus 112, 119. 



Paratettix mexicanus 



tolU'Cus 



Pardosa falcifera 



prolifica 



uncatula 



Parompala 



acris 134, 



calamu.s 116, 133, 



cylindrica 



di.^isimilis 1.32, 



pallida 132. 133. 



perpallida 



virgata 112, 116, 132-1.34. 



wyomingen.'^is 



Panila amcricana 



I'atula .strigo.sa 



s. con (I 'lit rata 



Pectiniin'a brfnicoma 



Pedic'clhiri.i pcntaphylla 



Pelayo iiLsigiiis 



PelecaiULs fuscus 



Peltaiidra virgin ica 387. 



Pei.sidiro a.sponj 



Peperomia magnolia?folia mion>- 

 I)liylla 



s('p((iitrionali.s 



Pt'ripatu.s 



IVtrorhclidon fulva 

 Pctroiiiyzon inarinns 

 IVucelia 



viridiin.s 



Plialaiigida 



Plialangiiun omatipcs 



Phariia.s marginalis 



l*lia.srMilii.s luitaliis 



Pluusiiiidav 119, 



Plia.s.su.s 20 



Hfliamv! 



Plii<lii.pu.s.'. 1549.550, 



rliry.si.s 



di.sjiinrtii.s.. 

 funrbri.s 



603 



529 

 530 

 527 

 529 

 528 

 195 

 .300 

 230 

 516 

 107 

 .521 

 359 

 397, 

 398 

 394 

 19 

 491 

 119 

 419 

 130 

 419 

 219 

 219 

 219 

 132 

 135 

 1.34 

 133 

 133 

 422 

 133 

 423 

 1.33 

 364 

 496 

 497 

 277 

 491 

 199 



:«5 



398 

 242 



490 

 490 



;{(•, I 

 407 

 :W2 

 •J 19 

 •Jj.'i 

 231 

 221 

 492 

 419 

 . 22 

 21 

 5JV) 

 220 

 220 

 220 




604 



PROCEEDINGS OF THIO ACADKMY OF 



[Dec, 



Pliidippus incontostata 220 



lutous 220 



inaniioratus 220 



inustaceus 563 



purpuratus 548, 558, 563 



Pliiloica 548 



Plilihostroma quadriniacitlatum.... 142 



Plui>nicopliilus dommicamis 363 



palmarum 363 



PlioloidiP 202, 313 



Pliolciis 303 



Phragniitcs communis 388, 391 



PlirLxocneinis 172 



Plirurolithus alarius 567 



Plm-notcttix robustus 112, 156 



verrurulatiis 156 



Pliycis repius 407 



Phyllotloce 238 



(Carobia) castanea 239, 339 



citriiia 339 



fcrniginca 337 



medipapillata 237, 337 



mucosa 336, 337 



polj'phvlla 339 



Pliyllodocida> 237, 336 



Physa 107 



virgata 515 



Piiysida^ 515 



Pliysocychis dugesi 202 



Phj-tolacca deoandra 491 



Picummis lawrencei 360 



Piinpinolla anLseum 493 



Pinus cembroides 113 



edulis 113 



pondcrosa 113 



rigida 393 



Pionosyllis 236 



elongata 236, 322, 326 



gigantca 326 



typica 325 



Pisauridae '. 215, 553 



Pisaurina 553, 563 



inira 553 



Pisidium abditum huachucanum... 516 



Pista (Scionopsis) alata 273 



elongata 270 



fasciata 272 



Pitangus gabbii 361 



Planorbis 107 



Plantago maritima 379, 398 



Plegadu? autumnalis 355 



Pleurosigma angulatum 182-184 



formosum 184 



Plexippus pavkulli 224 



Pluchea camphorata 380, 389 



Poa pratensLs 488 



Podarke pugetU-nsLs 243, 336 



Podilimbus podiceps 355 



PodL«ma 165 



dodgei 165 



Poecilochroa 568, 569 



Poecilocliroa bilineata 5ti8 



variogata 568 



Pocfilotcttix sanguineus 411 



Poinst'ttia cjathopliora 492 



PolisU's 13. 14, 16 



Pollachius virens 407 



Pollicita 332 



peripatus 332 



Poiycirnis aurantiacus ' 276 



calirornicus 276 



nervosus 277 



sp 276 



Polygala cruciata 392, 394 



Polygonum acre 393-39& 



arifolium 390 



ponnsylvanicvmi.....* 390 



ramosissinium 389 



sagittal um 3S0, 387, 389, 390, 



392-396 



Polygyra albicostulata 543 



ariadn:r 543, 544 



aulaconipiiala 544 



auriculata 543 



aurifonnis 544 



bicruris 543 



cliiricahuana 505, 506 



couloni 543 



epsiloca 544 



ouglypta 545 



guadalajarensis 541, 543 



helictomphala 543 



liindsi 543 



implicata 543 



latispira 543 



levettei 496 



niaterniontana 541 , 543 



ni. jalisooensis 541, 543 



niearnsi 496, 511 



mooreana 543 



nolsoni 541, 543 



n. oollisella 543 



oppilata 543, 544 



o. complicata 544 



o. implicata 543, 544 



plagioglo.ssa 543 



pnjita 544 



ponsonbyi 543 



posteliiana 543 



pustuloides 544 



rlioadsi 544 



richardsoni 543 



r. lingualLs 543 



suprazonata 543 



tf'xasiana 543 



triodontoide.s 543 



ventrosula 542-544 



V. hindsi 542, 543 



vucatanea 543 



PoljTioe 339 



gigas 2^ 



pulchra. 2j^0 




1909. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



605 



I'dlynoe retirulala ^4^ 



Polynoida? 24U 



Polypogon littoi-alis 4SS 



Poniolobiis mediocris 4U7 



Populus nioiiililVra, 58, 61, 67-71. 1>2. 



100, 103 



tremuloides 113 



I'oronotu.s triacanthus 407 



I'otaiMogetoii perfoliatus 398 



Potcntilla reptans 491 



I'rionotus evolans .strigatus 407 



Progne domuiicensis 364 



Pnisopis fidorata 111,112 



v.-hitina 111. 114 



i'r()stlif.«;inia .^<>9 



atra .")(t2. .^tW 



Pn.tiila atyplia 293 



supfrba 290 



Prumis niaritiiiia 3«2, 383, 391 



I'st'iidonieta albogiittata 209 



iM-lla L'OS 



(Ircolonita 209 



Ps«Mid«>|)otaiiiillu l)revil)ranchiata.. 289 



P?i«MKl<»s(niivle 120 



bai.k.sii." 121 



strainiiK-a 115. 120 



tenuis 112. 121 



tniiicata.. 11.".. 120 



Psctidot.«upa iiiiicnmata I 13 



Psolof-s.xa Imddiaiia 144 



ff-rnigiiifa 144 



niartilijx-nnis 144 



t.xana 112, 144, 428, 429 



Psyrhotria un<laf;i. 4S6 



Pt«Tidiuin caudatiim. 4.S6 



I'tfTonarcv.s 33 



Ptiliiiiniui"nc-apillac<Miiii 390. 394. 396 



Pupilla hcbt's .">1 I 



.svngonps .'>1 1 



Pupiiiid:c .")14 



I'lifxiidcs liordaci'a 514 



P\ Tainidujji ((ioiivodiscus) cronk- 



hitoi.... ; _ 513 



(C;onyodi»cu.s) shimcki rock- 



pr»'lli .')14 



Pynis arliiitifcilin .*iS9 



Qiiadnila iiickliniaiia. .'>32 



.•(••iiiigranosa 532 



QiifTciis p.iliisfris. .57. 66. 67.69-71.91 



Qiiorqmdiila dLscom 3.').5 



QiiL^ralii.s nipiT .3<>2 



.•*p 362 



RadimhVciis inillrroKtatn.x 

 Raja <-g|niit(>ria 



friiijKvn 



l;t\ is 

 |{.'ina ainiircn.''i.M 



iiigromaciilata. 

 Handia arulcata . 



.-.1 I 

 407 

 407 

 107 

 401 

 101 

 ISO 



Hamincula-i at-ris 



Hapliidia 



Hi'icliardia picroides 



l{lial)(liti.s aceti 



l{liaplii(iia 



Hluxia virginira 



UhiiiDptcra l)ona.sus 



Klii/.opliora mangle 



Kiiii.s copallina....' 



radican.'i 382, 385, 



toxicodendron 



Rhynchospora gloinerata 



Runcinia magna 



Ruponii.> ridgwayi 



l{uppia marilima 



491 

 ■'2 

 494 

 107 

 9 

 392 

 408 

 486 

 394 

 :iS7 

 554 

 396 

 215 

 3.")7 

 39S 



Sabal hlackbuniiana.. 489 



Sabbatia angularly 392, 396 




606 



PROCEEDINGS OF TlIK ACADEMY OF 



[Dec 



Scorpio 6 



Scotinoecus. 300 



Scuilderia furcata 475 



lurcilera 168 



iiK'xicmia 474 



Scvtotles championi 196 



fusca 190 



intricata 196 



loiigipes 197 



Scytodida' 196 



Seiunis aurocapilliis 365 



motacilla 365 



noveboracensis 365 



Sclenops bilurcatus 214 



mexicanus 213, 214 



Serpula colunibiana 293 



Serpulid;v 290 



Sesuviuin portulacastrum 486 



Setophaga ruticilla 365 



Sialis 22 



Sicyos aiigulatus 387 



Sida rliombifolia 492 



Sidii.sa albicincta 222 



conspecta 221 



femoralis 222 



fulvoguttata 222 



marmorea 222 



nigropicta 222 



opima 222 



parvula 222 



sulphurea 221 



tarsalis 221 



Sigaleonidse 242 



Sige 350 



Silene iioctiflora 491 



noctuma 491 



Sillus longLspina 201 



putiis 201 



Skyrinrliium bermudianum 490 



Sitaris hunirralis 9 



Solenodon paradoxas.: 352 



Solidago tenuifolia 394. 396 



seniperviren.s, 379, 380. 383, 385, 

 38S, 394, 308 



Sonordla 497, 517 



ashmuiii 517, 518 



dalli 496-498, 498, 501 



danielsi 497, 500, oOl 



pranulatissima, 497, 499, 500, 501, 

 501-503 



g. latior 498, 500, 501 



g. parv-a 501 



hachitana 517, 518 



huachucana 498 



meamsi 501, 510, 511 



rinconensis nl7, 518 



rowelli 497. 499, .501 



virilLs huachucana 4^8 



Sosippus agelenoides 217 



mexicanus 217 



Sparassidai 213 



Spanjssus audax 214 



crassas 214 



obscurus 214 



simoni 214 



Spargjinium euvcarpum....394, 395, 39S 

 Spartina paton.>. 37y-;iMl , 3S3-391, 398 



polvstaohva 379, 3S3, 3S9. 390 



stricta niarithna 378-380, 383- 



391,. 398 



Spcotyto doinini'cnsis 359 



j. SphTiobothria hofTinaiini 195 



] Sphaerodorida> 332 



I Spha;rodorum 332, 333 



brevicapitis 335, 336 



claparedii 333, 336 



I flavum 332, .^33 



p;ipillifer 333, 33.-) 



I sphipnilil'er 336 



j Spharagcmon angustipennis 149 



j collare 149 



I Sphmx 9 



I Sphyma Z3'ga?na 407 



I SpindalLs multicolor 363 



Spirogyra cn.ssa 393 



I Spordinus dogans 301 



I Squalus acinthlas 407 



Stagmomantis 119 



califoniica 41fi 



Carolina 416 



fra tenia 416 



heterogamia 416 



liinbata 416 



montana 416 



venusta 416 



Stauronereida* 256 



Stauronereiri moniloccras 256 



Steatoda americana 205 



Stenopelmatiis oculatus 171 



Sterna maxima 355 



Sthenelais 286, 339 



fusca 242 



Stichopas 240 



Stirapleura mescalero 145 



pasilla 115, 14.") 



Stot.'irchus minor 200 



Stratiomya 108 



Strepto.'-tyla bartschi 545 



minuta 545 



physodes 515 



supracostata 544 



.Strix glaucops 359 



Strophius hirsutus 213 



8troplio.style> helvola 385. 391. 394 



Suffida Ihiearis 380. 381. 384, 391 



maritima 398 



Succinea avara 514 



concordialLs 546 



luteola 546 



panufoensis 540 



Succineidffi 514 



Suriana maritima 486 




1909.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



60; 



Syllidae 236. 32] 



Svllis 330 



altematu 321 



(Ehlersia) anops 324 



amiillaris 322 



califomica 322 



clongata 236 



gracilis 236 



(Ehlorsia) heterochaeta 322 



>uigiili,*etis 325 



violac'-a-flava _ 322 



SjTiema afiluifatuni 215 



niaculosuin 215 



Svngiiathus fuscus 4(I7 



SWyllis 236, 322. 326 



Syiitherisma viola.sccns 48S 



Syrbula admirabilis 136 



fu.scogiittata 113 



fuscovittata 112. 136 



Tama mcxicana .. ._ 201 



Tapinaurhenius reduncup H>5 



Tapinopa 54S 



Taqion atianticus 40S 



Tpgonaria 54S 



derhamii 302 



sp 202 



TelmatettLx 130 



aztecus 115, 116. 130 



Trmnopterj'x 116 



desertae 110 



limbata 116 



lubipennLs 116 



Temnotrogon roseigaster 359 



Tt-nthrfdo 13, 43 



Ton-bdla califomioa.. 270 



f.S<hinardanflla) califomica.... 370 



TereboUida; 270 



Tf'tracha Carolina 113 



Tftragnatba alba 206 



aiitillana 207 



confratcma 207 



digitata 207 



piiatfmalensis 207 



mcxicana 207 



trntiissima 207 



tristani 207 



tropica 207 



Tettigonida' 167,474 



Teudis bicolor. ._ 201 



elfgans 200 



Rf-ntilLs 201 



Tf'Utana gros.sa 205 



Thala«<iH testudinum 488 



Tharyx 208 



multifili.- 207 



Thaunnu^ia nigrimis 215 



Tiielepiii cincinnatus 276 



crispim 275 



Thpranhn>ida' 194 



Theridii<la- 2n3 



Theridium 299. 307. 310. 54S. .5.59 



biolleyi 204 



compressum 203 



florens 203 



fordulum 203 



fordum 203 



mixtum 203 



oblivium , 203 



pioadoi 204 



rostratum 204 



rufipcs 203 



ta-niatum 203 



tcpidariorura 201, 299 



tliorclli 204 



Tlufxlina rctariiis 224 



Tliomb.i(i;c 214 



Thoosa gayi 245 



Thysanophora _ 512 



homii 512 



Tiaris bicolor 362 



lepida 362 



Tibia americana....58, 65. 69-71. 73, 97 



Tipiila 20. 22 



Tipulida^ 21 



TLssa marina 379, 3S0, 491 



Todus angiistirostris 360 



subulatiis 360 



Tomonotus aztecu-s 149 



Tounicfortia gnaphalodes 486 



Trachelas bis[)inosu.s 197 



mnrosiLs 197 



siniilL^ laS 



spirifer 197 



Trcclialea convexa 216 



Tropidnlus rosaceus 443 



Tric.intha tricomis 21.3 



Trichiunis li-nturus 408 



Trifolimn hybridum 385 



rcpcns 385 



Trcma l;miarkiaiia 4S6 



Triiiitrotr()i)is aibolincata 446 



bifa.sciata 448 



lariiicipcnnis 454 



("cruloipos 413, 416 



califomica 451 



caliginosa 447 



crLstata 446 



cvan^iponnw 115, 153. 4.55 



fi'illax 413. 447, 453 



fa^fic^I|n. 1 U», 1.52 



inconspicua 4.52 



ko«b<'lei 413, 44S 



latioinctA....... 114, 152, 4.50 



latifitHciata „ 150 



mnlnnopk'fa - 1 15 



modes ta 1.52 



pstiidofa-sciata 4.56 



nibri|H'8 , 112.152 



.stri'mia „ 451 



U'wllata 4 17 



Icxana 112-114. 151 




6()S 



PROCEEDINGS OF THFO ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Triiiu'n)trt)pi^ tliahissioa 



viiuulata 116, 151. 153 



\'. >iiiiilis 



Tridiiia luprea 



Triodopsis levettei 490, 



Trothosa 302, 304, 



Trophonia 



capiilata 



papillata 



Trypanosyllis giMnniipara 



intermedia 236, 



Turd us alioia' 



Turiiera uliuitolia 



Tvpha angastifolia, 391. 392, 395. 



398. 



Tyrannus doininicensis 



Tytthotyle maeulata 



rdeopsylla 



franriscanus 



socorrensis 



vierecki 



Uloboridse 



Uloborus '. 



geniculatus 



plumipes 202 



signatus 



spemax 



I'nio aztecorum 



connectens 



cuprmiis 



discus 



lapidosus 



uiekliniana 



panucoensis... 



popei 



stinigranosa... 



tanipicoensis. 



UnionidEB 



Urocoptidae 



449 

 . 452 

 453 

 3.S5 

 SOS 

 305 

 284 

 284 

 284 

 236 

 326 

 366 

 492 

 396. 

 486 

 361 

 462 



172 



172 

 172 

 172 

 202 

 304 

 202 

 305 

 202 

 202 

 537 

 533 

 532 

 539 

 533 

 533 

 632 

 533 

 535 

 532 

 534 

 532 

 512 



IJroptcrvgiiLs 407 



IJrospcnnuin picroides 493 



N'.icciiiium Jitrococcum 391 



iiiiuTocarpnu 392, 395 



^'allolliil cvolopliorella 514 



ix'ixpectiva 514 



\'allt)iiiid:p 514 



\Vrnoniii iiovahoracensis 389 



Wrtipo coiuinnula 515 



niiliuni 515 



modesta parietalis 515 



ovata 515 



Vireo ralidris 364 



Vitrea indentata umbilicata 514 



Vitrina alaskana 514 



^'onoI1es lat^^ralLs 228 



Xanthium ecliinatum 385-387 



Xyelida? 36. 37 



Xyri« caroliniana 396 



Xysticus advectus 214 



nervosus 562 



stomachosus 563 



Yersinia 118 



solitaria 112, 113, 115, 118 



Zaevcloptera 479 



Zantlioxylum flavuni 486 



Zenaida zenaida 357 



Zonaidura macroura 357 



Zoarces anguillaris 407 



Zonitidie 514 



Zonitoides arborea 514 



milium nieridionalis 514 



minuscula 514 



ni. alaoluiana 514 



Zostera marina 488 



Zygoballus tibialis 224 




1909.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



009 



GExXEHAL IM)i;\. 

 1909 



Additions to the Museum, 5S8. 



Danloi, Nathan. Arachnida from Costa 

 Kica (Plates V. VI). 170, HM. 



Barbour, Tlioniaa. On the Trut- Status 

 of the Genus Cat'opoides (Plates 

 XVII. XVIII), 401. 4,S4. 



Berg, Rudolf, announcement of death 

 of, 485. 



Binney. William G. announcement of 

 death of, IS.'i. 



Biological and Microscopical Section, 

 report of, oSO. 



Botanical S<'ction, report of, 5S2. 



Boyer, Cliarlcs S. Report of Biolopi- 

 cal and Microscopical Section, 5SI). 



Brown, Arthur Envin. Sc.D. Remarks 

 at Comincriioration of Darwin Cen- 

 tennar}-, oo. 



Brown, St<'wardson. On a Botanical 

 Trip to the IIeadwat<Ts of tin; Sa.s- 

 katclicwan and Atliaba.sca Rivt-rs 

 (no al)stract), 206. Thoma.s Meehan, 

 48.'). Notes on tlie Plora of Ii«T- 

 mudas, 485, 486. Report of Botan- 

 ical St^ction, 582. 



Calvert, Philif) P. On the Power of 

 Hight in DraRon-I'lies and its rela- 

 tion to Gtographical Distribution 

 (no nb.-stract), 2. 



Chapman, Ib-nry ('., .M.D., announce- 

 ment of «h'iith of, 4H5. » 



Cleborr.e, ChnVtonlier J.. Ml)., an- 

 nouncement of di-ath r)f. (KM) 



Conklin. I':«Jwin ('... Ph.D.. .*<c D. 

 Remarks at Commemoration of 

 Darwin Centz-nnary, 56. 



f^rnsjxitidiiiir Srn-tarv, n'jKirf of, 572. 



Council for H)l(), .'i86.' 



Crampton, Ci. ('., Ph.D. A (V)ntril)U- 

 tion to the Corn|)arative Morphology 

 of the Thoracic Sclerites of Insects 

 (Plates I-IV). 1. .1. n.rrection. 176. 



Curators, report of, ■'577. 



Darwin. Charles. Commemoratitin of 

 Centennarv of liirth of, ete.. .55. 



Dixon. Samuel (;.. M.D., F.L.D. Report 

 of Curators. .577. 



Dohm, All ton, announcement of death 

 of. 485. 



Elections during 1909. 586. 



Entomological .S.'ction, report of. .581. 



Fowler. Henrv ^^ . A new Species of 

 I'Lsli of the Genus Atopichthys, 

 witli notes on New Jersey Fislies, 

 406. 485. 



Frazer, Persifor. Sc.D., announce- 

 ment of deatli (tf. \U'.i. 



Gaudry. Jean .\ll)ert, announcement 

 of death of. 2. 



General Inde.x. (WJ. 



Haenlen. Lewis, announcement of 

 death of, 2. 



narshl)erger. John W.. M.D. The 

 Vegetaticjn of the West Indies as 

 consirasted with that of Mexico and 

 C^'iitnil America (no aijstract). 2 

 Action of Cliemical S<jlutions on 

 Bud Developme?it: An ex|K'rimental 

 .Studv of .Xccjim.'itizatioii. .55, 57. 

 The X'egetation of the .Salt Marsiies 

 and of the Salt and Kresh-water 

 Ponfls «)f Northern Coastal New 

 Jersey. 296, .T.!. 



Ilartshonie, CharI«"S. announcement 

 of death of. 296. 



Ilrdlieka. Alc^. Rei)ort on an ad<li- 

 tional Collection of .Skeletal Remains 

 from .\rkans;Ls atul Louisiana (see 

 JotlHNAI,, XIV. 1). 4S4. 



Inde.x to (Jenera, .595, 



Kef'ley, V. J. Microscopical Image 

 Formation, 176. 177. 



I/ca. Henrv Ch.'irle.s, announcement 

 of dejith of. •1S5. 



Librarian, repfirt of. .57.1. 



I/oriol le Fort. Penival. announcement 

 of death of. 17<) 



Lyman, It<'njamin .Smith. .Seolithu.i 

 liiiejirLs Burrows witlu ( )rifice Com- 

 nh'te CPIate X). 296. Report of 

 Minentlogical and (Jeological .Sec- 

 tion. .5s:j. 



MacFarlane. John. .Se.D. On Irrito- 




610 



PROCEKDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Coiitrjutilitv ill I'lants (no ab- 

 !?tr;ut), 17(5. 

 Miiu-ralogical and Geological Section, 



rt'port of, 5S3. 

 Mitsiikuri, Kakichi, announcement of 



doatli of, 485. 

 Monlpoiiieo'. Thomas H.. Ph.D. On 

 tJie Arcliitocturc of Sj)iclers (no 

 alistract), .55. On the Spinnerets, 

 (Yibelluni, ("olulus, Tracheir and 

 J.nng liooks of Arancads (Plates 

 XI. XII, XIII, XIV), 299, 484. 

 Furtlier Studies on the Activities 

 of Aranead.s, IJ, 548. 

 Moore, Clarence B. Antiquities of 

 the Ouachita Vallev (see Joitrnal, 

 XIV. 1). 484. 

 Moore. .1. Percy, PIi.D. Polycha'toiis 

 Annclid.s from Monterey Bav and 

 San DicKo, Califonua (Plates VII, 

 VIII. IX). 193. 235. The Poly- 

 chietous Annelids dredged bv the 

 U. S, S. "Albatross" off the Coa.st 

 of Southern California in 1904: I. 

 Syllidfe. Spha>rodoridff, Hesionida> 

 and Phyllodocidffi (Plates XV, XVI), 

 321, 484. Report of Corresponding 

 Secretarj-, 572. 

 Nolan. Edwin J., M.D. Short History 

 of the Academy (no abstract), 193. 

 Report of Recording Secretary, 570. 

 Report of Librarian, 573. 

 Officers, Councillors, etc., for 1910, 



585. 

 Ornithological Section, report of, 584. 

 Peirce, Dr. C. Newlin. announcement 



of death of, 296. 

 Pilsbry, H. A. On Barnacles (no 

 ab.stract), 193. A new Species of 

 Scalpellum from Briti.sh Columbia, 

 367, 484. Unionidie of the Panuco 

 River Svstem, Mexico (Plates XXV, 

 XXVI, XXVII), 485, 532. New 

 Land Shells from Mexico, 485, 540. 

 Report of Special Curator of Mol- 

 lu-sca, 579. 

 Pilsbry, Henry A., and James H. 

 Ferriss. Moilusca of the Southern 

 States, III: The Iluadmca Moun- 

 tains, Arizona (Plates XIX, XX, 

 XXI). 485, 495. A new Sonorella 

 from the Rincon Mountains, Arizona 

 (Plate XXII), 485, 517. 

 Pilsbr\', Henry A., and A. A. Hinkley. 

 Melanidaj of the Panuco River 

 System, Mexico (Plates XXIII, 

 XXIV). 485, 519. 

 Recording Secretarj-, report of. 570. 



Relui, James A. G.. and Morgan 

 llebard. .\n Orthopterojogical Rc- 

 comioi-ssance of the Soutliweatem 

 ; United States: Part II, New Mex- 

 ico and \\esteni Texas, 55, 111. 

 Same, Part III, California and 

 Nevada, 409, 484. 

 Report of tlie Biological and Micro- 

 \ scopical Section, 580. 

 Report of Botanical Section, 582. 

 Report of Corresponding Secretary, 

 572. 

 i Report of Curators, 577. 

 ' Report of Entomological Section, 581. 

 Report of Librarian, 573. 

 Report of Mineralogical and Geologi- 

 cal Section, 583. 

 Rejiort of Ornithological Section, 584. 

 Report of tlie Recording Secretary, 



570. 

 Report of Special Curator of Moilusca, 



579. 

 Richards, Benjamm W., announce- 

 ment of death of, 485. 

 Sergeant, J. Dickinson, armouncement 



of deatli of, 485. 

 Skinner, Henry, M.D. On Antigony 

 or Sexual Diversity in Insects (no 

 abstract), 176. Report of Ento- 

 mological Section, 581. 

 Smith, Burnett. Note on the Mor- 



pliology of Fulgur, 369, 484. 

 Special Curator of Moilusca, report of, 



579. 

 Standing Committees, 1909, 1. 

 Steams, R. E. C, announcement of 



death of, 485. 

 Stone, Witmer, report of Ornithologi- 

 cal Section, 584. 

 Thomas, Joseph, M.D., announcement 



of death of, 296. 

 Van Ingen, (>ill)ert. On the so-called 

 Clinton Iron Ores of Bloomsburg, 

 Pennsylvania (no alwtract), 296. 

 Verrill, A. E., and A. Hyatt Verrill. 

 Notes on the Birds of San Domingo, 

 with a list of the Species, including 

 a new Hawk, 352, 484. 

 Wharton, Jo.sepli, announcement of 



death of, 2. 

 Wherry, Edgar T. On Silicified Woods 

 of the New Red (no abstract), 296. 

 Wolf, Theodore R., announcement of 



death of, 485. 

 Young, Robert T. The Occurrence 

 of Bufo columbiensis east of the 

 Rocky Mountains, 296, 298. 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1909. 



PLATE I. 



CRAMPTON. MOHPUOLOGY OF SCLliRITES, 







PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1909. 



PLATE II. 



CHAMPTON. MORF^HOLOGY OK SCLERITES. 





PROC, ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. i909. 



PLATE III. 



CRAMPTON. MOr^F'HOLOGY OF SCLERITES 




i 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1909. 



PLATE IV. 



CRAMPTON. MORPHOLOr.Y OF .SCLliRITES. 





PROC. ACAD NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1939. 



PLATE V. 



BANKS ARACHNIDA FHOM COSTA BICA 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1909. 



PLATE VI. 



BANKS. ARACHNIDA FROM COSTA PICA. 




I 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1909. 



PLATE Vn. 



MOORE CALIFORNIA POLYCHyETA 




f 




PROC. ACAD. NAT SCI. PHILA 1909 



PLATE VIII 



39 



MOORE. CALIFORNIA POLYCH^TA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT SCI. PHILA 1909. 



PLATE IX. 



57 5a 



eo «« 



63 



65 



64 



MOORE. CALIFORNIA POLYCH 



/eTA. 




I 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SC!. PHILA. 1903. 



PLATE X. 



( A 



LYMAN. SCOLITHUS LINEARIS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHTLA. 1909. 



PLATE XI. 



U 





'*w(3 O © ^ >^ ftf 



fct' 



J/Cfl. 





£cC 



\l 



^ 



MONTGOMERY. THE SPINNERETS. ETC., OF ARANEIDS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1909. 



PLATE XII. 



Latrt.Z 



S.Ap l^.Ap- 

 MOlNTGOMhRV 



THE SPINNERKTS. ETC.. OF ARANl-JI 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1909. 



PLATE XIII. 



u. 





MONTGOMERY. THE .SPINNERETS. ETC., OF ARANEID.S 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. FHILA. 19C9. 



PLATE XIV. 



,n 



?\ ] I 



3S, 



MONTGOMERY. THK SPINNERKTS OF A(ANl-jrr 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1909. 



PLATE XV. 



MOORh:. POLYCH/ETOUS ANNblLIDS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1909. 



PLATE XVI. 



33 



MOORK. POLYCH/4^Tn"'^ n MNKLIDS. 




I 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1909. 



PLATE XVII. 



K N. KiBohcrdel. 



BARBOUR ON THE GKNUS CACOPOIDES. 




1 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA 1909 



PLATE XVIII. 



'A. 



U 



ih 



4 



}5 



K. N KImIktcJ.I. 



BARBOUH ON THE GENUS CACOPOIDES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1909. 



PLATE XIX. 



10 



13 



16 



P 



9 



5 



11 



14 



17 



r- 



^ 



12 



^ 



15 



18 



PILSBHY AND FERBISS; MOLLUSCA OF SOUTH WEbTKHN STATES. 





PROC. ACAD NAT. SC!. PHILA. 1909. 



PLATE XX 



PILSBHY AND FEHRISS: MOLLUSCA OF bOi:'I HWtbTEfiN bl AT tS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1909. 



PLATE XXI. 



PFLSBHY AND FERRISS: MOLLUSCA OF SOUTHWESTERN STATES 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1909. 



PLATE XXII. 



PILSBHY AND FERHISS: SONOBELLA FHOM THE HINCON MTS . ETC 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1909. PLATE XXill. 



4MM 



4^44 



9 10 



7 ^ 



^ 18 19 



PILSBFY AND HINKLEY. MELANIIDyE OF THE FANUCO RIVER. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1909. 



PLATE XXIV. 



PILSBHY AND HJNKLEV MELAhi IIL AL lOF THE i-ANUCO hlVEP. 





PROC. ACAD. MAT SCI. PHILA 1T>'^ 



PLATE XXV 



PILSBRY; UNIONID/E OF THE PANUCO HIVER, MEXICO. 




i 



\ 



i 



i 




PROC ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA l90§. 



PLATE XXVI. 



i-iU-:>BHY. UNIONID/E OF THE PANUCO RIVER MEXICO. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1909, 



PLATE XXVII. 



■PILSBRY UNIONlDAi OF THK HANUCO UIVKU, MliXICO. 




H . 




^^fw 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 

 CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



STORAGE 





