

LIBRJ RY 



ROYAI 

 IOC 

 TORC ^TO 



45s 



ontario museum 

 quJen's park 



- CANADA 

 2C6 



Ret'd td: 



Date Ret'd: 



Odtioiqz 




u 






■7 .a V 



PROCEEDINGS 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1887 



committee op publication! 

 Joseph Leidy, M. D., Geo. H. Horn, M. D., 



Edw. J. Nolan, M. D,, Thomas Meehan, 



John H. Redfield. 



Editor : EDWARD J. NOLAN, M. D. 



A 



io 



<A 



philadelphia: 

 academy of natural sciences, 



LOGAN SQUARE, 

 1 888. 




Academy op Natural Sciences of Philadelphia 



Kebruary 14, 1888. 



I hereby certify that copies of the Proceedings for 1887 have been presented 

 at the meetings of the Academy as follows : — 



EDWARD J. NOLAN, 



Recording Secrftnry. 



ir^ 



ia/^(/fi' 



I 



PHILADELPHIA; 

 HOKACE BINDEK, PRINTEK. 




LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS. 



With reference to the several articles contributed by each. 



For Verbal Communications see General Index. 



PAGE. 



Allen, Harrison, M. D. A prodrome of a Memoir on animal locomotion 60 



Chapman, Henry C, M. D. Notes on the Anatomy of Salpa. Plates XIV, 



XV 334 



Dolley, Clias. S.. M. D. On the histology of Salpa. Plate XIII 298 



Eigenmann, Carl H. Notes on the specific names of certain North American 



Fishes 295 



Fielde. Adele M. Notes on the fresh-water Rhizopods of Swatow, China.... 122 

 Garrett, Andrew. The terrestrial Mollusca inhabiting the Samoa or Navigator 



Islands 124 



Heilprin, Angelo. The classification of Post-Cretaceous deposits 314 



The Miocene Mollusca of the State of New Jersey 397 



Jordan, David Starr. Description of two new species of Fishes from South 



America 387 



Note on Achirus Lorentzi 389 



Koenig, George A., Ph. D. On Zinc-Mangenese Asbestos 47 



Leidy, Jos. M. D. Notice of some parasitic Worms 20 



McCook, Rev. Henry C. Prolonged life of invertebrates : Notes on the age 



and habits of the American Tarantula 369 



Meehan, Thomas. Contributions to the life-histories of plants 323 



Meyer, Otto. On invertebrates from the Eocene of Mississippi and Alabama. 



Plate III. 51 



Osborn, Dr. Henry F. On the structure and classification of the Mesozoic 



Mammalia 282 



Porter, Thos. C. A list of the Carices of Pennsylvania 68 



Potts, Edward. Contributions towards a synopsis of the American forms of 

 fresh-water Sponges with descriptions of those named by other authors 

 and from all parts of the world. Plates V, VI, VII, VIII, IX, X, XI, 



XII 158 



Rominger, Dr. C. Description of a new form of Hydrozoa 11 



Description of primordial fossils from Mount Stephens, N. W. Territory 



of Canada. Plate 1 12 



Ryder, John A. On the homologies and early history of the limbs of verte- 

 brates 344 




Wachsmuth, Charles and Frank Springer. The summit plates of Blastoids, 



Crinoids and Cystids, and their morphological relations. Plate IV 82 



WhitV, Dr. Charles A. On new generic forms of Cretaceous Mollusca and 



their relation to other forms. Plate II 32 



On the Cretaceous Mollusca of Texas and their relation to those of other 

 portions of North America 39 




PROCEEDINGS 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1887, 



January 4, 1887. 



Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, iu the chair. 



Fifteen persons present. 



A New Species of Catfish (Idalurus). — Prof. Angelo Heilprin 

 described a species of catfish from Lake Okeechobee, Florida, 

 Avhich differed in several well-marked characters from the various 

 other North American species that had hitherto been described. 

 The species is most nearly related to Ictalurus laeustris, the 

 " catfish of the lakes," which it generally resembles. The color 

 over the greater part of the body is blue-black, varying to black 

 on the back, and white on the ventral surface ; the barbels of one 

 of the inferior pairs are white, and nearly so in the second pair. 

 The dorsal fin is situated nearer to the adipose fin than to the 

 snout ; humeral process moderately long, about one-half the 

 length of the pectoral spine ; tail deeply forked, the upper lobe 

 barely longer than the lower one. Length of largest specimen 

 caught, about 20 inches. It was proposed to name this species 

 Ictalurus Okeechobeensis. 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



January 11. 

 The President, Dr. Jos. Leidy, in the chair. 



Eighteen persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : 

 "Description of a new form of Bryozoa," by Dr. C. Eominger; 

 " Notice of some Parasitic Worms," by Jos. Leidy, M. D. 



January 18. 

 Mr. John H. Redfield, in the chair. 

 Fourteen persons present. 



A paper entitled " On new Generic Forms of Cretaceous Mol- 

 lusca and their relation to other forms," by Dr. C. A. White, was 

 presented for publication. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11 



DESCKIPTION OF A NEW FORM OF BRYOZOA. 

 BY DR. C. ROMINGER. 



Patellipora stellata. Pi. I, fig. lo. 



Saucer-shaped colonies attached to foreign bodies by a short, 

 stout root-like stem. Under surface of colony covered by a 

 dense, smooth epithecal crust. From the centre of the concave, 

 terminal, discoid expansion diverge from 8 to 10 rounded, stout 

 radial crests or bars, which, towards the margin of the disk, 

 dilate wedge-like. Intervening between these radii are deep 

 furrows, likewise dilating toward the margin. The outer half of 

 each of these wedge-like bars is again divided into two branches 

 by a furrow entering them from the margin and running into a 

 point about half way from the centre. The surface of these 

 forked radial bars is covered with from 3 to 4 longitudinal 

 rows of small, round orifices, which make them resemble the 

 poriferous side of a fenestelloid stem. These orifices dilate in 

 the interior into flask-like cell-bags, which can be observed closely 

 packed together, on the underside of the bars, if by accidental 

 wearing the epithecal coating of the underside has been removed. 



This peculiar Bryozoa was discovered by me in some drift- 

 boulders at Ann Arbor, associated with characteristic corniferous 

 limestone fossils, in silicified condition. Only three of them 

 were found by me ; the most perfect and largest one of them is 

 represented in the figure. 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



DESCRIPTION OF PRIMORDIAL FOSSILS FROM MOUNT STEPHENS, 

 N. W. TERRITORY OF CANADA. 



BY DK. C. ROMINGER. 



My friend, Mr. Otto Klotz, in chai'ge of the Astronomical 

 work of the Canada Dominion, while engaged with geodetic 

 measurements accidentally discovered this very interesting 

 locality, which furnishes an abundance of well-preserved primor- 

 dial fossils, particularly Trilobi^es, imbedded within a dark gray 

 slate rock, of about 300 or 400 feet in thickness. Above the slate 

 succeeds a large series of dolomitic rock beds, and below a very 

 large belt of quartzites crops out ; although the immediate contact 

 of the quartzite with the slate is not seen in the locality. The 

 specimens collected on this sj^ot Mr. Klotz had the kindness to 

 send to me. He gave others to the University of Michigan, his 

 Alma Mater. Many of these fossils are remarkably well pre- 

 served, and nearly all of them are believed to be undescribed 

 forms. 



I have also to acknowledge here the liberality of Prof. A. 

 Winchell, who allowed me the use of the specimens sent to the 

 University. Among the collected fossils the most frequent form 

 is an Ogijgia, which, in honor of its discoverer, I propose to name 

 Ogygia Elotzi. Pi. I, fig. i. 



More than a dozen perfect specimens of it are on hand, the 

 largest one of which measures 11 centimetres in length, by a 

 width of 6 centimetres ; others are smaller in all gradations down 

 to a length of only 16 millimetres. One sj^ecimen, which is other- 

 wise not perfect, has the head complete, with attached movable 

 cheeks ; in all the others the movable cheeks are missing. 



The flat exjianded specimens have suffered a degree of com- 

 pression, as usually occurs with fossils preserved in a slate rock. 

 In a general way the longitudinal diameters of the head, the 

 thorax, and the pygidium are equal, but the latter is usually 

 somewhat longer than either of the other body-divisions. The 

 glabella is large, reaching almost the front margin, which projects 

 as an elevated narrow rim. 



The convexity of the glabella is only moderate, and the lateral 

 furrows on it, three in number, are very shallow, often scarcely 

 perceptible. Its sides are almost parallel, only slightly bulging 




Proc.Acad. Nat. Sci.Mada. 1887. 



Roimnger, Fossils from Mt. Stephens. & c. 



C. Bominger, del. 





1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 13 



out near the centre ; width of the glabella measured across the 

 upper edge of the palpebral rim is J of the entire diameter of the 

 head at this place. Fixed cheeks are rather broad, the reniform 

 palpebral lobe is margined by a projecting rim, which rim is seen 

 continued under the form of a low rounded ruga extending from 

 the upper angle of the eyes obliquely inward and upward, so as 

 to meet the glabella at the third anterior lateral furrow of it. 

 The occipital furrow and its lateral continuation across the 

 cheeks is well marked. The movable cheeks terminate backward 

 in a long spine reaching down to the third thoracic segment. 



The facial suture line terminates posteriorly near the genal 

 angles, anteriorly it intersects the margin on both sides of the 

 glabella, quite a distance off from it, about perpendicular above 

 the eye rim. 



Thoracic segments in all the specimens, small or large, eight. 

 The gently curved scabre-like ribs abruptly taper backward into 

 a short spinose apex. Their centre bears a rounded broad depres- 

 sion, somewhat diagonal to the axis of the rib, and bordered on 

 both sides by a projecting rounded ruga of which the anterior is 

 more conspicuous than the posterior. The rachis is moderately 

 convex, gently tapering backward ; its width, compared with the 

 length of the ribs, is as one and one-half to two in proportion- 

 The jjygidium, as above stated, exceeds the head or thorax 

 slightly in length ; it bears in the larger specimens eleven well- 

 marked annulations, flanked by as many costal expansions which 

 dilate considerably toward the margin, and bear in j^lace of the 

 central depression of the free ribs a rounded central ruga bordered 

 on each side by a furrow ; the edges of the anchylosed ribs are 

 likewise indicated by an elevated rim. 



The curvature of the pygidial ribs is much stronger than on 

 the thorax, and their position to the rachis is more oblique, grad- 

 ually increasing backwards, so that the hinder ribs of the pygidium 

 meet the rachis under an acute angle. The edge of the pygidium 

 is formed by a smooth convex rim, against which the costal rugse 

 abut. 



In the figured specimen the movable cheeks were missing, and 

 have been restored from another specimen with the head perfect. 

 Ogygia serrata. nov. sp Pi. I, figs. 2, la. 



There are four complete specimens in the collection, besides 

 numerous fragmental ones ; nearly all are about equal in size ; the 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



figured specimen is seven centimetres long, and five centimetres 

 wide, measuring from one genal spine to the other. 



Head, thorax, and pygidium of equal length. 



General form of the head and course of the facial sutures cor- 

 respond almost completely with the previously described species. 

 The glabella of this form is somewhat broader and more promi- 

 nent than in the former ; also the glabellar furrows are more 

 distinctly marked ; they are three in number, the hinder one is 

 the largest, directed obliquely inward and backward, but not 

 reaching to the centre of the glabella. 



The i^alpebral rim and the rugosity continued from it upward 

 across the fixed cheeks are the same as in the former species. 



The movable cheeks are protracted into long slender spines, 

 which reach as far down as the fifth thoracic rib. 



Rachis broad, almost equal in diameter with the length of the 

 corresponding ribs, deducting their spiniform prolongations. 

 The occipital ring terminates with a triangular monticulose prom- 

 inence, overlaj^ping the first thoracic ring, and likewise each one 

 of all these annuli of the thorax, and the pygidium bears a 

 strong spine on the median line. 



The thorax of this species is, in all the specimens examined, 

 composed of only seven segments. 



The pygidium has five annulations with as many ribs corre- 

 sponding to them. These ribs dilate considerably toward the 

 margin, as in the former ; but while in that, a smooth rounded rim 

 edges the pygidium, in this form the principal ruga of each rib 

 extends beyond the margin of the pygidium under the form of a 

 strong acute spine, directed backward, so as to be almost parallel 

 with the axis of the body. Five of such spines fringe each side 

 of the pygidium; their size is gradually diminished toward the 

 posterior end. 



The hypostoma is in most of the specimens preserved, occupy- 

 ing its natural position. The shape is represented by one of the 

 annexed figures and needs therefore no further verbal description- 



Many loose, but much smaller hypostomas, of which I likewise 

 figure a few (PI. I, figs. 2b and 2c), were found scattered through 

 the slate rock ; to which of the associated trilobitic forms they 

 belong, I was unable to ascertain. 



Two other forms of Trilobites occur with the just described 

 Ogygias, which in the configuration of their heads and in the 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15 



course of the facial suture lines fully correspond Avith tliem, but 

 they differ by the much smaller size of their pygidia in compari- 

 son with the size of the concerned thoracic divisions and the 

 heads. A further difference is in the number of thoracic segments, 

 which in them is nine instead of eight, and seven, as in the two 

 first described typical forms of Ogygia. 



The glabella of the latter also shows three lateral furrows, while 

 in the two forms to be described, four very well marked glabellar 

 furrows are observable. 



These differences and principally the difference in the proportion 

 of the size of head, thorax and pygidium, appear to me sufficient 

 to distinguish these forms from the genus- Ogygia, and I propose 

 to apply to them the generic name Embolimus. 



Embolimus spinosa, nov. sp. Pi. I, fig. 3. 



Only one, almost perfect specimen of this form is in the collec- 

 tion, but the number of fragmental sj^ecimens observable in the 

 slabs prove that this is not a rare species. 



The specimen figured is 34 millimetres long ; length of head 14 

 millimetres; length of thorax 15 millimetres; length of pygidium 

 5 millimetres, without counting the length of spinous processes. 



The glabella is large, moderately convex, of equal width in all 

 its length, reaching close to the front margin, which is formed by 

 a narrow upturned rim. 



The four glabellar furrows are well developed, none reaches the 

 centre of the glabella, the hinder ones are the largest, running 

 obliquely backward, the second and third furrows extend almost 

 at right angles from the margin of the glabella, but the apex of 

 the second is turned backward while the apex of the third furrow 

 is curved forward. The fourth and smallest furrow is directed 

 obliquely forward. 



The occipital ring forms a triangular projection of the posterior 

 margin, which is crowned with a stout short spine, also each of 

 the thoracic annuli exhibits a faint indication of former orna- 

 mentation by a spine which is broken off in the specimen. 



The pygidium has four sharp annulations with as many costal 

 appendages, which, a short distance off from the rachis, are ab- 

 ruptly bent backward, tapering into long sjjines projecting over 

 the pygidial margin in a direction parallel with the longitudinal 

 axis of the body. 




16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Also the thoracic ribs terminate with long sj^iues directed 

 obliquely backward. Each rib bears a deep depression in the 

 central part, which, commencing near the spinose peripheral end, 

 runs diagonally across the broader part of the ribs meeting the 

 rachis near the upper end of each annulation ; but previous to that, 

 this depression sends off a side branch backward, which meets 

 the posterior part of the same annulus, leaving between the two 

 depressions a pointed triangular elevation in continuity with the 

 convex portion of the annuli ; the edges of the ribs project as 

 elevated rounded rims, broadest in the middle, and tapering 

 toward the rachis and toward the periphery, where the anterior 

 rim is seen to constitute the body of the projecting sj^ines. 

 Embolimus rotundata, nov. sp. PI. I, figs. 4 and 5. 



There is only one specimen in the collection which shows head, 

 thorax and pygidium in connection, but the movable cheeks are 

 missing. Other fragmentary specimens, however, exhibit the 

 head complete. The proportions in the size of the three partitions 

 of the body are : 



Head, 13 millimetres ; thorax, 14 millimetres ; pygidium, 9 

 millimetres. Nine thoracic ribs, as in the former species ; the 

 pygidium has six well-marked annulatious and corresponding 

 pleural expansions, margin rounded, no spinose projections. The 

 thoracic ribs are similar in configuration with those of the pre- 

 ceding species, but they terminate rather abruptly with short 

 pointed ends. 



The head likewise closely resembles the former species, with 

 the difference that the glabella expands considerably toward the 

 front end, while the glabella of the former is all its length of equal 

 width. The movable cheeks, observable in one of the specimens, 

 terminate backward in a long sj^ine, reaching as far as the fourth 

 thoracic articulation. The two figures represent a fragment with 

 complete head and another incomplete specimen with the movable 

 cheeks missing. 

 Monocephalus Salter! ? Billings. Pi. I, fig. 6. 



I have, with some doubt, identified a small specimen found in 

 association with the others with the form described by Billings 

 under this name. The minuteness of the fossil, and its being 

 merely a cast without shell, prevents the observation of the more 

 delicate structural details, but the general appearance of Billings' 

 figure, as well as his description, are satisfactory proof to me that 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 17 



both fossils under consideration must be closely related, if not 

 identical. 



The specimen, of which a figure is subjoined, has a total length 

 of 16 millimetres; length of head, 6 millimetres; length of thorax 

 with seven segments, also 6 millimetres: length of pygidium, 4 

 millimetres. 



The head of the specimen, deprived of the movable cheeks, 

 bears a large glabella considerably dilating in front, with three 

 distinct lateral ftirrows. The thoracic ribs are deeply excavated 

 in the centre, and the adjoining margins of every rib project as 

 high ridges with a dividing line along the crest. The annuli 

 composing the pygidium are rather obsolete, but four sharp fiir- 

 row^s, spreading fi'om each side of the rachis, indicate its compo- 

 sition of at least four anchylosed segments. 



Conocephalites cordillerse, nov. sp. PI. I, fig. 7. 



Numerous specimens of this little trilobite occur in the collec- 

 tion ; their average size in length is about 25 millimetres ; the 

 movable cheeks of the specimens are generally missing, other- 

 wise the bodies are usually perfect. 



Glabella conical, convex, provided with three lateral furrows, of 

 which the posterior is the largest, quite oblique ; occipital furrow 

 deep. The glabella in its extension towards the front varied 

 some, as between it and the upturned projecting rim of the front 

 a broader or narrower strip of the fixed cheeks intervenes. The 

 fixed cheeks are broad, margined with a small reniform burrelet 

 at the palpebral angle of the facial line, and from 'the anterior end 

 of this eye-rim a faint rugosity is seen to run across the fixed 

 cheeks, toward the front part of the glabella, near its anterior 

 sulcus. 



Rachis uniformly tapering toward the tail-end, consisting in 

 the thoracic part of seventeen segments, in the majority of speci- 

 mens examined ; but in one, evidently belonging to the same 

 species, I counted only fourteen, and in another fifteen. The 

 ribs are pretty straight, with a deep central depression and high 

 projecting marginal rim.s, which are joining the rims of the 

 neighboring ribs in a sharp linear groove. Each annulus of the 

 rachis at its juncture with the ribs is decorated with a rounded 

 node. 



The entire surface of the body appears, in well-preserved 

 specimens, covered Avith delicate papilli and granules. 




18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



The pygidium is very small, but clearly composed of at least 

 three auchylosed segments. 

 BatHyurus ? Pi. I, fig. 8. 



A single specimen in the collection, or rather an impression of 

 one, from which I prepared a gutta-percha cast, leaves me in doubt 

 in regard to its generic affinities. 



The smooth, rather convex glabella, without indentation by 

 lateral furrows and the shape of the facial suture lines, resemble 

 some forms described by Billings under the name Bathyurus ; 

 also the configuration of the other parts of the body would 

 agree Avith these, but the number of thoracic segments in the 

 specimen under observation is only six, while nine are claimed 

 for Bathyurus. Not considering the material on hand as suffi- 

 cient to decide whether this is a new generic type, or might be a 

 form of Bathyurus with a normal number of thoracic segments, 

 of which some became hidden by being shoved under the head, 

 I content myself for the present by giving an exact copy of the 

 gutta-percha cast formed in the impression of the slate-rock. 



AgnOStUS. PI. I, fig. 9. Compare A. integer Barr. 



Many of these minute crustaceans are found scattered on the 

 slabs of slate. They all apparently belong to one species. 



The anterior valve differs from the posterior by the conical 

 shape of its glabella terminating near the front margin in a 

 bluntly pointed end ; the median line of this glabella rises near 

 the posterior end into a root-like crest, terminating in a back- 

 ward projecting spinose protuberance ; the posterior part of the 

 glabella exhibits also an indentation by lateral furrows. 



The rachis or central convex j^rotuberance of the posterior 

 valves is equilateral and not conical ; the posterior end of it it 

 abruptly rounded off; a deep furrow runs across this central 

 protuberance on the posterior third of it ; its larger anterior 

 portion bears a short spinose projection. 



The two thoracic annuli are divided by fun-ows and constric- 

 tions into nodular partitions representing rachis and ribs, but of 

 too small a size to be accurately represented by a description, 

 or by figures. The subjoined figure of one of the specimens is 

 enlarged three diameters. 



Besides the described crustaceans, the slates inclose also num- 

 erous minute Brachiopods, several of which belong to the genus 

 Oholella. One of these Obolellas, almost circular in outline, with 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



marginal umbo, exhibits most delicate concentric lines of growth 

 with ruffled edges, in addition to Avhich also faint radial striae 

 emanating from the umbo are observable. 



Other similarly rounded specimens of Oholella show fine con- 

 centric striation, but in comparison with the former may be 

 considered smooth. Also more oval-shaped specimens of Oholella 

 occur. 



The genus Orthis, in a form similar to Orthis pepinensis is 

 likewise represented; another form resembles Kutorgina sculptilis 

 Meek. Small shells of the shape of Lep)toe,na are also found, 

 and one specimen similar to Metoptoma. 



Some slender stems, consisting of shining carbonaceous matter, 

 seem to belong to Grapholites. Finally I have to mention yet 

 the occurrence of a form of Theca or Hyolites, of the same 

 appearance as Theca primordialis figured by Hall. As I intend 

 to examine this locality myself, as soon as the season allows, I 

 expect to be able to give before long a more complete exhibition 

 of the fauna inclosed within these slate-rocks. 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



NOTICE OF SOME PARASITIC WORMS. 

 BY JOSEPH LEIDY, M. D. 



Filaria megacantha. 



Body straight, nearly uniform cylindrical, slightly narrowed pos- 

 teriorly, obtuse at the ends, milk-white in color; head rounded; 

 mouth bounded by a pair of prominent papillate lips. Female: 

 caudal extremity straight, obtusely 

 rounded, smooth, without anal aperture. 

 Male: caudal extremity conical, obtuse, 

 bialate; alte narrow, united around 

 the end of the tail, together forming a 

 shallow pouch, with a row on each side 

 of six rib-like papillse, of which four 

 are in advance and two behind the 

 genital aperture. A long, curved and 



Fig. I. — Side view of caudal ex- ,• n .1 i • 1 i 



tremity of the male, highly partially cxsertcd penal spiculum and 

 magnified. a nearly straight short one. 



Eight females, 35 to 60 mm. long; cephalic extremity a short 

 distance back, ()"75 wide; body at middle, 0"625; near the tail 

 end the same width. Seven males, 20 to 25 mm. long; cephalic 

 extremity, 0375 wide; body at middle, 0*5; near tail end, 0'25 

 wide. Large penal spiculum, 2*5 to 3 mm. long; shorter one, 

 0-18 to 0-22 mm.; caudal bursa, 0-28 long; width of al*, 0-036 

 mm. 



From the subcutaneous connective tissue of the neck and 

 mandible of the Short-eared Owl, Ado oecipitrmus (Strix 

 brachyotus). 



This appears to be a much smaller and different species from 

 the Filaria attenuata Rud., found in the same bird and others of 

 the order in Europe. Dujardin ^ gives as the size of the latter 

 250 to 308 mm. for the female, and 136 to 148 mm. for the male, 

 with 1 mm. for the longer penal spiculum. Schneider ^ gives for 

 F. attenuata, from Falco peregrimis, 330 mm. for the female, and 

 115 mm. for the male, the caudal bursa of which he represents 

 as circular. He remarks that the Filaria of Strix and of Ceeus 

 (/landarius, referred by Rudolphi to F. attenuata, is a different 

 species, but does not describe it, for want of perfect specimens. 



1 Helminthes, 51. 2 Monog. Nemat., 89. 




\J 



1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



Obtained in Chester Co., Pa., December, 1886, by Dr. B. H. 

 Warren. 



Three specimens, females, two inches in length, from the orbit 

 of the Hen-hawk, Buteo borealis, in the collection of the Army 

 Medical Museum, appear to belong to this species. 

 Ascaris tulura. 



Body cylindrical, most narrowed and tapering anteriorly, of a 

 pinkish color; mouth trilobed, the lobes together nearly as wide 

 as the head. Female: caudal extremity nearly as thick as the 

 middle of the body, straight; tail short, obtusely conical, as 

 broad at base as the length. Male: caudal 

 extremity tapering, slightly incurved, with a 

 row on each side of minute papillae (20 or 

 more?); tail short, conical, ending in a 

 spheroidal knob. 



One female; length 125 mm.; width of Fig. 2.— Caudai extremity 

 cephalic extremity a short distance from °^. ^^"'^^'- 3^ ^^ ■""'"■ 



J- •' Highly magniriea. 



the end, 0'375; at middle of body, 1*25; 



near the tail, 1 mm. wide; tail, 0"25 long. One male; length 90 



mm.; width at middle, 0'75; tail, 0"25 long; rounded end, 0125 



thick. 



From the ventriculus of the Red-shouldei-ed Hawk, Buteo 

 lineatus. 



This worm approximates the Ascaris depressa Rud., observed 

 in many rapacious birds, but appears to be a different species. 

 Diesing^ describes the tail of the male of the former as shortly 

 mucronate and papillose beneath, and Schneider ^ figures it 

 according to that description. 



Specimens obtained in Chester Co., Pa., December, 1886, by 

 Dr. B. H. Warren. 

 Ascaris sulcata Rudolphi. 



Body anteriorly attenuated; posteriorly more or less closely 

 spiral; head with prominent lips. Female: tail conical, recurved 

 from the anus, ending in a minute mucro. Male: tail conical, 

 shortly mucronate, bialate, with a row on each side of four or 

 five nipple-like papillae. 



Female, up to 25 mm. long by 0*5 wide at middle; tail, 0*25 

 long. Male, 15 mm. long by 0*3 wide at middle, 



1 Syst. Helm., 156. ^ Monog. Nemat., 41. 




22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Numerous specimens were found tightly clinging by the mouth 

 to the lining membrane of the stomach of Trachemys scabra, 

 Echinorhynchus caudatus Zeder. 



Body narrow, cylindrical, nearly equal throughout, strongly 

 corrugated so as to appear annulated, posterior extremity conical. 

 Proboscis cylindrical, expanded at base, with 9 to 11 rows of 

 strong hooks, succeeded with about 15 rows of smaller hooks. 

 Length, from 5 lines to an inch; breadth, 0'5 to 1*5 mm. From 

 two individuals of the Swallow-tailed Kite, Elanoides furcatus, 

 in one of which they were associated Avith Tceuia viator. Two 

 specimens from Strix uebulosa. Florida. Dr. B. H. Warren. 

 EcUnorhynclius hystrix Bremser. 



Body cylindrical, much corrugated, widest anteriorly and 

 minutely echinate. Proboscis clavate, with about a dozen rows 

 of hooks. One-fourth to three-fourths of an inch long and one 

 line wide at the fore part. Numerous specimens from the intes- 

 tine of the Darter, Plotus anhinga. Florida. Dr. B. H. Warren. 

 Taenia slmplicissima. 



Head small, unarmed, truncate; bothria spherical, terminal, 

 occupying the four angles; neck very long, 

 [^ nearly or as wide as the head, body grad- 

 ually widening to the posterior third and 

 then tapering; anterior segments trans- 

 versely linear, subsequently reversed dish- 

 like, gradually longer and wider, then cam- 

 5' ^' ■*■ panulate and gradually becoming longer and 



Fig. 4. Cephalic extrem- /^ , • j i 



ity; 5. Segments about uarrowcr. Generative apertures and ova 



middle; 6 Posterior uuobserved. A uumbcr of specimeus from 



2o^diImIters ^^"' ^ ^^^ C^^' Gudus ccillarias, up to 20 lines 



by 1 mm. where widest. Two only of the 



specimens retained the head. 



Tsenia Ambloplitls. 



Head quadrate, spheroidal, consisting almost entirely of the 

 four large spherical bothria, with the summit slightly prominent 

 and conical or depressed and unarmed; neck very short or none; 

 body compressed cylindrical, gradually widening from the head 

 to near the posterior part where it slightly narrows to the end; 

 segments linear, becoming gradually longer and wider, and then 

 more quadrate; all deeply and pretty regularly wrinkled into 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



two or three annuli. Genital apertures obscure. Length 8 to 12 

 inches; in alcohol contracted to 82 to 

 5 inches ; greatest width 2 mm. 



Head 0'5 to 0'625 mm. long, and 0"75 

 to 0*875 broad. Bothria 0-375 mm. 

 diameter. Commencement of body 

 ()'625 wide. Anterior segments 0'125 

 long, 0*625 wide; subsequently 0*375 

 long and 1*5 to 1*875 wide; posterior ^^ g 



segments 0*75 long by 1 ram. wide. Fig. 7. Cephalic extremity ; 8. Seg- 



Ai „r? -^^ /J, ,1 ments near middle. 20 diameters 



nuraber oi specimens ii'om the 



stomach of the Rock Bass, Ambloplites rupestris. Lake George, 



New York. 



This species resembles the Tcenia ocellata Rudolphi of the 



European Perch, Perca fluviatilis, and perhaps is the same. 



Taenia Micropteri. 



Head large, compressed spheroidal, with four subterminal 

 spherical bothria and a papilliform unarmed summit; neck none; 

 body obscurely segmented, and with no obvious internal organs, 

 posteriorly variably narrowed and obtusely rounded at the end. 

 Length from half an inch to an inch, and about 1 mm. wide. 

 Apparently a larval form ; found in the body cavity of the Black 

 Bass, Micropterus nigricans. Six worms, soft, white, and active. 

 The longer ones of an inch would elongate to double the length, 

 becoming proportionately narrower. The head, about 1 mm. or 

 more in diameter, varied in length and breadth, according to 

 contraction, sometimes one and sometimes the other being the 

 larger. Lake George, N. Y. 



Last summer, while at Mt. Desert, Me., I examined a squid, 

 Ommastrephes illecebrosa, with the hope of finding the singular 

 parasite Dicyema. The specimen was in bad condition, and while 

 I found none of the latter, I obtained from it several small worms, 

 which I suppose to be the larval form of a cestode. They were 

 yet quite active, though the host was already putrescent. I 

 suspected them to belong to Tetrabothriorhynchus migratorius, 

 observed in European cephalopods, but examination showed them 

 to be different. They moved so actively and incessantly, con- 

 tracting, expanding and writhing, that it was difficult to obtain 

 a clear idea of the shape of the worm. It appears most nearly 

 related with Tcenia, and provisionally may be regarded as a 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



larval form of this genus. Its more evident characters may be 

 summed uj) as follows : 

 Taenia loliginis. 



Head unarmed, without rostellum, quadrilobate, continuous 

 with the neck, which is variably long and narrow or short and 

 irregularly contracted and expanded, and is constricted from the 

 body. Lobes of the head elliptical, contractile and expansile 

 and becoming variably folded or corrugated, furnished each at 

 the upper pole with a hemispherical bothria. Body about as 

 long as the head and neck, extensile and contractile, obconic or 

 obovate, compressed, acute posteriorly, unsegmented. No inte- 

 rior organs visible except a vessel along the sides of the neck and 

 encircling the lobes of the head. Color white. Length to about 

 half an inch ; width about 1 mm. Dr. H. C. Chapman informed 

 me that he had previously observed this parasite in the squid. 

 Monostomum obscurum. 



Elongated elliptical, flattened, obtusely angular in front, obtusely 

 rounded behind. Oral and genital or other aj^ertures scarcely 

 distinguishable. Length, 4 to 8 lines ; width 1 line. 



Numerous specimens in the stomach of a Jew-fish, Megalops 

 thrissoides. Collection of the Army Medical Museum, Washington. 

 Distomum AquUse. 



Sjjatulate, cochleariform, widest behind, obtuse at both ends; 

 mouth circular unarmed; acetabulum sessile, about as large as 

 the mouth. Length, 3 lines ; wddth in front, I a line ; behind, | of 

 a line. Two specimens from the trachea of the Bald Eagle, 

 HalicBtus leucocephalus. Collection of the Army Medical Meseum. 



Distomum bispidum Abildgaard. 



Body much attenuated in advance, covered wath minute 

 recurved spines, which become obsolete at the back part. Head 

 with a pair of alate appendages covered with stronger recurved 

 spines, and a small group in the intervals before and behind. 

 Mass of eggs giving the axis of the body behind a red appear- 

 ance. Ova oval, 00'4 mm. long, 00*24 mm. broad. 



Numerous specimens, about 4 lines long by 0'5 mm. where 

 widest behind. From the intestine of the Sturgeon, Accipenser 

 .stnrio, of the Delaware River, at Philadelphia. 

 NitzscMa elegans Baer. 



Several specimens of this leech, four lines long, were taken 

 from the gills of the same sturgeon. 




1887.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 25 



January 25. 

 Kev. Henry C. McCook, D. D., Vice-President, in the chair. 



Twenty-one persons present. 



The following were elected- members; Bernard Persh, Geo. B. 

 Cresson, Joseph Whitehouse, William B. Marshall and William 

 Osier, M. D. 



On a Tumor in the Oyster. — Prof. John A. Ryder remarked that 

 a few days since Professor Leidy handed him the soft parts of an 

 oyster, which he said he thought might be an interesting subject 

 for investigation, inasmuch as a very large tumor had grown into 

 the pericardiac cavity. The sj^ecimen is a very remarkable one, 

 and seems to be the first of the kind which has fallen under the 

 observation of naturalists; neither Professor Leidy nor the 

 speaker, in the course of large opportunities for observation, 

 having previously encountered an}i;hing of the sort. It is also 

 of great interest as proving that such pathological growths may 

 be developed in the mollusca, thus showing that even in the 

 invertebrata there may be morbid proliferations of certain tissues 

 which simulate in certain respects those observed to occur in 

 man and the higher types of vertebrates, in which they become 

 very dangerous and painful in character, as in the case of cancer. 



The first and most striking features of this tumor, found in 

 the oyster, is its great size in proportion to that of the animaL 

 The tumor in its largest dimension measures nearly one inch 

 across, with a thickness of fully half an inch. The total length 

 of the animal, in alcohol, is about three inches, and it appears 

 normal in every other respect. For size, in proportion to the 

 dimensions of the animal, it can therefore only be compared to 

 those huge morbid growths on certain parts of man known as 

 elephantiasis. It is subcircular in outline as viewed from the 

 side, and fills up the pericardiac cavity in front of the adductor 

 muscle; this cavity being very greatly enlarged in consequence 

 of the growth of the tumor. The larger portion of it also lies 

 on the right side, and on account of its great size it has displaced 

 the heart forwards and to the left. 



Its consistence is soft and yielding when pressed with the 

 finger, and consists of some eighteen very distinct lobules of 

 irregular size and form. Its joint of attachment appears to be 

 to the mass of tissue which surrounds the posterior • and rectal 

 part of the intestine of the animal, and appears to have grown 

 out in this region, or from the dorsal wall of the heart chamber. 



Upon removing one of the lobules, which was cut into sections, 

 it was found that its histological structure was also very remark- 

 3 




26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



able, and considerably different from that of the normal tissue 

 of the body-mass of the animal. The sections* also showed that 

 the tumor was traversed by vessels, the tissues immediately 

 around which were more nearly of the kind normally found to 

 constitute the greater part of the substance of the body-mass. 

 The normal connective tissue is composed of large cells or spaces 

 with thin walls, and about the centre of each one of these a 

 small, complex mass of protoplasm is found which is suspended 

 to the sides of its vesicular wall by means of fine radiating pro- 

 toplasmic threads or filaments. Very minute nucleated and 

 rounded blood and lymph cells are also found in the general con- 

 nective tissue of the body-mass in small numbers. 



The histological structure of the tumor contrasts with the 

 normal tissue in the following particulars. We find no evidence 

 of the presence of the central protoplasmic bodies, with radiating 

 processes, in the meshes of the tissue. The mesh of the tissue 

 of the tumor is areolar, or alveolar, the alveoli being much larger 

 than the vesicular cells of the normal connective tissue. While 

 there is a complete absence of the protoj^lasmic bodies with fila- 

 ments, the alveoli contain great numbers of very small globular, 

 nucleated cells, somewhat variable in size. These cells closely 

 resemble the colorless blood and lymph cells of the oyster, and 

 some show processes or pseudopods. They are generally adherent 

 to the walls of the alveoli, or project in small adherent clumps 

 from the parietes of the alveoli and never completely fill the 

 meshes of the alveolar tissue, in which they are inclucled, as do 

 the analogous cells in the alveoli of tumors in the higher animals. 



Near the centre of each nodule there is a zone of alveoli Avhich 

 are larger, and in which the small rounded cells are most abund- 

 ant. At the surface of the tumor there is no investment of a 

 truly integumentary character, so that the proliferating mass 

 seems to have ruptured the integument or membrane lining the 

 pericardium. At the surface we therefore find that there is no 

 true integument, but instead, the alveoli become smaller and 

 more compact, with the contained small rounded cells more 

 closely packed. The tissues of the tumor are entirely of meso- 

 dermal origin, and are therefore of considerable interest from tHe 

 standpoint of comparative pathology. 



The speaker also referred to the presence of tumors, which 

 developed as outgrowths of the intestinal wall, near the pylorus, 

 in the common shad, and also instanced the occurrence of pro- 

 found lesions of the Wolffian body or kidney of the common 

 gold-fish, as a result of which that organ underwent complete 

 degeneration, with other changes which caused a bloated, drop- 

 sical appearence in the cavity of the abdomen. Large meshes of 

 fi])rous tissue were, in fact, found occupying the place of the 

 kidney filled with a watery or colloid substance, the whole taking 

 up a much greater space than that originally filled by the normal 

 organ. These data, the speaker thought, were very significant, 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27 



as showing that even the lower animals were not exempt from 

 morl)i(l growths and lesions of the most serious character. 

 Tumors of the kind described in the oyster are probably very 

 rare, however, and the speaker considered that it was very fortu- 

 nate tliat the specimen had fallen into the hands of a naturalist, 

 such as Professor Leidy, who could so well appreciate its imjjort- 

 ance and value. The tumor seems to have been benign in character, 

 as the oyster in other respects appears to have been healthy. It 

 was also localized, and did not appear in other parts of the animal, 

 so that it was probably in no way infectious. 



Modification of Habit in Ants through fear of Enemie.-^. — Dr. 

 Henry C. McCook described a raid of the Sanguine ants, Formica 

 sanguinea, which occurred in a vacant lot at Asbury Park, N. J. 

 The co-operative nest of the two species was established quite 

 near the sidewalk, and the raid was directed thence into the 

 open lot. The marching column of Sanguines was accompanied 

 by a fcAV individuals of the black slaves. What special purpose 

 the latter had he was not able to determine. The eagerness 

 exhibited by the Sanguines upon the march was very noticeable, 

 although these creatures are always active in the nest and at any 

 domestic labor as well as war, in which respect they differ largely 

 from the shining slave makers, Polyergus luciclus. 



On the occasion of which he spoke, the nest of Fuscous ants, 

 Formica fiisca, against which the expedition was directed, was 

 concealed among a large amount of forest rubbish, such as bits 

 of broken chips, twigs, dried leaves, etc., that were scattered 

 over the barren space, interspersed here and there Avith tufts of 

 grass and low huckleberry bushes. The invaders had evidently 

 located the nest, but not with absolute accuracy; at least they 

 were not able to determine the point at which it might success- 

 fully be assaulted. A most animated scene was presented over 

 the entire surface, some three feet in diameter, upon which was 

 concentrated the united energies of the warriors. Over and 

 around this space in various lines the ants wandered, crossing 

 and criss-crossing each other's pathways, sometimes singly, 

 sometimes in couples or triplets, or in larger crowds, but always 

 exhibiting an attitude of fevered eagerness, applying their mandi- 

 bles and mouth-parts continually to the ground in search of the 

 point of vantage which would give them ingress to the coveted 

 treasures of the Fuscous ants. 



A space about ten inches in diameter, strewn with dry chippage 

 seemed to represent the locality beneath which the blacks had 

 established their formicary. The Sanguines energetically pulled 

 away the chips, scattered them here and there, burrowed lightly 

 in the earth hoping to obtain an opening. About two feet 

 distant from this point the speaker discovered a small round 

 entrance or gate which was soon identified as one of the outer 

 approaches to the Fuscous nest, for several of these ants were 




28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1887. 



seen issuing from the gate and others were hovering around it. 

 At this moment one of the Sanguine army, in the spirit of a 

 pioneer or scout, approached this point. Thereupon the blacks 

 climbed up adjacent sj^ears of grass, where they remained 

 apparently on guard. After about ten minutes spent in the 

 exploration which has been described, the reds began to drain 

 off from the centre of search towards their home. In the mean- 

 time a considerable number of the Fuscas, who had evidently 

 been out upon foraging expeditions and were homeward bound 

 for the night, discovering the crowd of enemies who surrounded 

 their borders, had discreetly taken refuge like their associates on 

 the tufts of grass everywhere around the margin of the space 

 within which the Sanguines had been operating. 



Two of these blacks, more courageous or cunning than their 

 associates, Dr. McCook observed to slip into a little opening and 

 disappear inside. They were presently followed by several 

 Sanguines, who, however, shortly returned from within and pro- 

 ceeded with their surface explorations, apparently having found 

 no clew to the msjin formicary. The blacks, however, had cer- 

 tainly safely entered their home. He greatly wondered at this, 

 and regarded it as an evidence of remarkable cunning and skill 

 in strategy on the part of the Fuscas, which had enabled them 

 thus so rapidly and easily to close the opening to their nest and 

 throw the invaders off the scent. 



An hour after the commencement of the raid not more than 

 half a dozen of the Sanguines remained upon the scene, the rest 

 of their company having abandoned the search for this time at 

 least. This corporal's guard of persistent scouts also gave up 

 the search at last and maixhed back home, the secretive skill of 

 the blacks having thus far prevailed for the protection of their 

 colony. 



The interesting fact in the history of these curious creatures 

 to which Dr. McCook wished to call especial attention is, that their 

 instinct for kidnap2:)ing has appeared to develope on the part of 

 those who are the victims of it a corresponding strengthening of 

 instinct in the way of concealment. The Fuscous ants are ready 

 enough to defend their homes with their lives and often do it 

 successfully when their numbers are great enough to overcome 

 the superior physical power and warlike skill of their enemies. 

 But the weaker colonies of Fuscas must always yield to the 

 prowess and strength of the Sanguines, unless their cunning can 

 put their invaders at a disadvantage. 



The case just mentioned does not stand alone. At various 

 times when the speaker had observed these black ants in such 

 site that they are exposed to the attacks of the Sanguines, he 

 had noticed that their nests were constructed very differently 

 from those of colonies in neighborhoods not infested by Sanguines. 

 In the latter positions it is the habit of the Fuscas to raise above 

 the surface of the ground a flattened moundlet, or sometimes a 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29 



mound of considerable size. Over the summit and at the base of 

 these elevations are scattered the gates or openings into the gal- 

 leries Avithout the least attempt at concealment. The whole 

 formicary shows that its inmates dwell in security without any 

 fear of such special perils as those described. On the contrary, 

 the Fuscous colonies established in the near vicinity of their 

 hereditary foes have a marked tendency to omit or subdue eleva- 

 tions above the surface, the dumpage from interior galleries being 

 apparently scattered broadcast instead of piled above the central 

 formicary. Their gates are few and cunningly concealed, and 

 quantities of rubbish are scattered around with the evident inten- 

 tion of hiding the locality of their nest or making the approach 

 to it more difficult. It has thus come about with these vinfortu- 

 nate blacks, as is the case with the human species, that the diffi- 

 culties of life and perils to person, offspring and home, have 

 developed a higher order of protective instinct. 



A similar faculty Dr. McCook had observed in the case of an 

 amber-colored ant, the Schauffuss ant, Formica schauffussi. He 

 was watching the assault of a colony of Sanguines upon a 

 Fuscous nest in the grounds of his friend Mrs. Mary Treat, 

 Vineland, N. J., when he chanced to see a solitary individual 

 Schauffuss moving back and forwards a little distance from the 

 scene of invasion. Knowing that this ant is sometimes enslaved 

 by the Sanguines he directed his attention upon her and easily 

 perceived that she was putting finishing touches upon the closure 

 of a little hole that marked the gate of her formicary. A tiny 

 pebble was placed, then a few pellets of soil were added. Next 

 the worker walked away, took a few turns as though surveying 

 the surroundings, and cautiously came back. The coast was 

 clear. Now she deftly crawled into the small open space, and 

 the observer could see from the movements inside, and occasional 

 glimpses of the tip of her antennse, that she was completing the 

 work of concealment from the inside. At last her task was done 

 and all was quiet. Just then a single Sanguine Avarrior, appa- 

 rently a straggler from the invader's army near by, or some inde- 

 pendent scout it may be, approached the spot. It walked around 

 the nest, which was indistinguishable from the surrounding 

 surface ; sounded or felt here and there with its antennre ; passed 

 over the very door into which the Schauffuss ant had disappeared, 

 and although its suspicions were evidently strongly awakened, it 

 at last moved away. The speaker felt satisfaction that the San- 

 guine depredator had thus been baffled and that the instinct of 

 home protection had proved too much for the wretched kidnap- 

 ping cunning. However, his pleasure was somewhat clouded by 

 the reflection that the slave-making scout would probably be back 

 before long, accompanied by the host of its fellows, and do its 

 work more surely. But the impression remained strong upon 

 his mind that the Schauffuss colonists, like the Fuscous ones 

 above alluded to, had decidedly modified their habits of nest 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



architecture to meet the perils arising from close neighborhood 

 to their kidnapping enemies. 



Notes on the Geology of China. — Prof. Heilprin read from Miss 

 Adele M. Fielde the following notes on the geology of south- 

 eastern China, which are of interest, inasmuch as nothing on the 

 physical features of that section of the empire has as yet been 

 published. 



" I have been on a trip up the Han River, 130 miles, to the 

 Pass between the Kwangtung and Fokien Provinces. The moun- 

 tains slope steeply down into the river on both its sides for eighty 

 miles, and a narrow path runs on each slope parallel with the 

 river at varying distances above it. Some of the mountains are 

 probably three thousand feet high, and the ridges at a distance 

 appear so narrow that a man might stride and sit on them as on 

 a saddle. The river keeps a general trend southward, its bends 

 being short ones. Its delta covers several square miles. In all 

 the lower part of its course it is kept in its channel by dikes, as 

 its sandy bed is higher than the adjoining rice fields. Just above 

 the city of Chow-chow-fu, thirty-two miles to the north of Swatow, 

 the mountains begin to rise, and they are, like those near Swatow, 

 almost wholly of granite. This rock extends up to Liu Ng, a 

 town twenty-four miles further up the river. Stone No. 1, in the 

 box sent herewith, is a specimen of this outcrop near the river. 

 Ten miles further up the granite becomes very coarse, as in No. 

 2. Ten miles still further, or twenty-six miles from the mouth, 

 the outcrops are, for a short distance, of whitish sandstone, like 

 No. 3, and these are immediately followed by red sandstones, 

 Nos. 4 and 5, which continue in mountain after mountain, gorge 

 after gorge, precipice after precipice, for some sixty miles. These 

 are magnificent exposures, the stratification showing very plainly, 

 with lines of cleavage nearly at right-angles to the lines of deposit. 

 The inclination is at all angles, some being level, some vertical 

 and some showing splendid curves. Here and there are to be 

 found apparent injections of another stone, which, I fancy, may 

 be trap No. 6. I also found some streaks of landscape-sandstone, 

 No. 7. In one place I found a huge mass of the speckled stone, 

 pink, with brown spots, marked No. 8, in the box. This, like all 

 the other specimens, is a portion of the great outcrop from a 

 mountain side. 



" Red sandstone, in some places, almost like dark shale, in 

 others very hard and of a light color, extends to within ten miles 

 of the pass. Towards its upper boundary I noticed much inter- 

 mixture with light sandstone, and with a greenish stone. No. 9. 

 The stratification of the latter was very plain, and in places the 

 mountain path leads over the edges of the strata as they stand 

 perpendicularly. Near the pass and also through the pass (which 

 is four miles long, and is a wild goi'ge through which the river 

 flows in a white torrent), the outcrops and boulders are again 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31 



wholly of granite, like that of Liu Ng. Not far below the pass 

 there had been a landslide from one of the mountains, and it gave 

 a fine chance to see the original constitution of the slope. I 

 suppose this sandstone may be Triassie, because it appears to be 

 unfossiliferous. The Chinese do not make vast excavations, but 

 they use stone for bridges, etc. In one place I crossed a new 

 bridge, made of red sandstone, and I examined the quarry from 

 which the stone came. If there were fossils found they would, 

 without doubt, be used as fetiches, and I should hear of them. 

 The natives said no queer thing had been found or seen in the 

 stones. There was no sign or speck of a fossil to be found about 

 the quarry." 



The specimens of stone accompanying the notes were com- 

 mented upon by Prof. Heilprin, who stated that they would be 

 the subject of further study and report. The district here 

 described is an interesting one to geologists, inasmuch as it had 

 hitherto received but little attention upon the part of the travel- 

 ers. Much of the rock surface is probably identical with that 

 observed by Richthofen in the region to the west and north, the 

 details of which have not yet been published in his work on 

 China. The red sandstone (Nos. 4 and 5) described by Miss 

 Fielde as a possible rejiresentative of the Trias, is apparently a 

 member of the series referred by Richthofen to the Jurassic 

 period — so identified by the plant remains. 



Chinese Rhizopods. — Miss Fielde also announced that during 

 her study of the fresh-water Rhizopods found in the streams 

 around Swatow, she had collected several forms identical with 

 those described by Dr. Leidy, from the neighborhood of Phila- 

 delphia (Difflugia urceolata, D. pyriformis, Arcella vulgaris). 



The following was ordered to be printed : — 




32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



ON NEW GENEEIC FOKMS OF CRETACEOUS MOLLUSCA AND THEIE 

 RELATION TO OTHER FORMS. 



BY CHARLES A. WHITE. 



Published by permission of the Director of the United States Geological Survey. 



The type species of the three generic forms which are described 

 in this article ^ belong to the collections of Cretaceous fossils from 

 Texas, which I am now preparing for publication in one of the 

 memoirs of the U. S. Geological Survey. In their generic charac- 

 teristics all three of them appear to be respectively identical with 

 certain forms which have long been known, but which have been 

 referred to other genera by different authors. The features which 

 I now present as having generic value seem to have been overlooked 

 by those authors, or, so far as they were observed, they were treated 

 as specific characters. Two of these forms belong to the section 

 Melininse of the family Aviculidse. The other is referred to the 

 Crassatellidse, but it departs considerably from the typical section 

 of that family. 



CRASSATELLIDJE. 



Genus STEARNSIA (gen. nov.). 



Shell compressed, subtrihedral or subcircular in marginal out- 

 line; beaks small, closely approximate, prominent by reason of 

 the abrupt sloping away of both the antero-and postero-dorsal 

 borders; lunule and escutcheon both well defined and flattened 

 or excavated; hinge strong, consisting of both cardinal and 

 lateral teeth; cardinal teeth two in the left valve and three in the 

 right; both posterior and anterior lateral teeth long and slender; 

 posterior laterals two in the right valve and one in the left; 

 anterior laterals two in the left valve and one in the right. If, 

 however, the overlapping border of the right valve and the enter- 

 ing border of the left, within the lunule, and the overlapping 

 border of the left valve and the entering border of the right, 

 within the escutcheon, be regarded as teeth, the number of both 

 the anterior and posterior laterals is two in each valve; ligament 



^The names under which I have described these forms respectively are 

 Dalliconcha, Stearnsia and Aguileria. They are given in honor of Dr. W, 

 H. Dall and Dr. R. E. C. Stearns of the U. S. Geological Survey, and of 

 Sefior Jos6 G. Aguilera, of the Mexican Geographical and Exploring 

 Commission. 




PROG, ACAD. NAT, SCI. PHILA. 1887. 



PI. II. 



WHITE. NEW CRETACEOUS MOLLUSCA.. 





1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 33 



small, mainly internal; free margins apparently smooth; pallial 

 line apparently simple. 



This genus agrees with Crassatella in having both lunule and 

 escutcheon clearly defined, in the general character of the hinge, 

 exclusive of the lateral teeth, in the nearly internal position of 

 the ligament, and, apparently, in having a simple pallial line. It 

 differs from Crassatella in its small and compressed beaks, the 

 laterally compressed form of the shell, in its greater number of 

 cardinal teeth; and in the long and slender character of both 

 the anterior and posterior lateral teeth. 



It agrees with Astarte in having both lunule and escutcheon 

 well defined; but it differs from that genus in having a greater 

 number of cardinal teeth; in its well developed anterior and 

 posterior lateral teeth ; and in having its ligament mainly internal. 



It agrees with Circe (as represented by C. scrlpta, Lin.) in 

 its laterally compressed form, especially that of the umbonal 

 region, and in the number of its cardinal teeth. It differs from 

 Circe in having its ligament mainly internal; in the long and 

 slender character of the anterior lateral teeth, and in the posses- 

 sion of posterior lateral teeth. 



It agrees with Erijphila in having both lunule and escutcheon 

 well defined, and, approximately, in the character of its posterior 

 and anterior lateral teeth. It differs from that genus in having 

 a greater number of cardinal teeth, and in having its ligament 

 mainly internal. 



It has somewhat the aspect of Gouldia, but it differs from that 

 genus in having slender, well developed posterior, as well as 

 anterior lateral teeth. It has also a greater number of cardinal 

 teeth than Gouldia and its ligament is differently situated and 

 partly external. 



The only species of this genus which I have satisfactorily 

 examined is the one which is described in the following paragraph. 

 This I regard as the type of the genus, but it is likely that the 

 Astarte carinata of d'Orbigny^ is congeneric with it. 

 Stearnsla Robinsi (sp. nov.) Pi. ll, figs, 7—9. 



Shell much compressed, trihedral in marginal outline; lunule 

 long and narrow, nearly straight from end to end, concave trans- 

 versely; escutcheon similar in shape and character to the lunule, 

 but longer; beaks small, appressed, angular; ligament slightly 



1 See Palcont. Francaise, Ter. Cret. iii, pi. 262, figs. 1. and 2. 




34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



exposed, and it appears to have been divided into an outer and 

 inner portion by a calcareous septum; umbonal furrows distinct, 

 producing an emargination at the posterior part of the convex 

 basal border and a considerable prominence of the posterior 

 extremity; hinge strong; the lateral teeth slender and extending 

 the full length of the lunule and escutcheon respectively; surface 

 marked by strong concentric furrows and ridges, which end 

 abruptly at the margins of the lunule and escutcheon respectively; 

 the surface of both lunule and escutcheon plain, 



AVICULID^. 



Genus DALLICONCHA (gen. nov.). 



Shell resembling GervilUa in general form, in the character of 

 the test, in the muscular markings, and in the possession of a 

 pit-bearing diverging hinge area upon each valve. The valves 

 are more or less nearly equal in convexity; beaks terminal, 

 divergent; the upper borders of the hinge areas converging from 

 the widely separated beaks to the posterior end of the wing, 

 where the areas come in contact with each other by their full 

 width; posterior wing elongate, clearly defined from the body of 

 the shell; anterior wing absent, the anterior extremity of each 

 valve being inflexed so as to form, when both valves are together, 

 a three-lobed depression in the front portion of the shell, one 

 lobe of which ends at the extremity of each of the divergent 

 beaks and the other below, at the contact of the antero-basal 

 margins of the valves. At the bottom of the depression there is 

 a distinct byssal aperture, to form which both valves are nearly 

 or quite equally notched. The articulating portion of the hinge 

 of each valve is marked by more or less distinct crenulations 

 which cross it obliquely downward and backward, and which are 

 sometimes visible upon the surface of the areas above the articu- 

 lating border. At the anterior end of the hinge these crenula- 

 tions are approximately perpendicular, and sometimes denticulate 

 in character, and at the posterior end they sometimes assume the 

 form of slender, nearly horizontal lateral teeth, above which are 

 more nearly transverse crenulations. 



Dalliconcha agrees with GervilUa in the characteristics already 

 mentioned; but it differs from the typical forms of that genus 

 mainly in the inflection of the anterior extremity of the valves,^ 

 and the consequent terminal position of the beaks, and absence 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35 



of an anterior ear. It also differs in wanting the large, longitu- 

 dinal teeth Avhich characterize true Gervillia — as seen, for 

 example, in G. difficilis d'Orbigny, and G. anceps Deshayes.* 

 The byssal aperture is also more clearly defined than in Gervillia. 



In these differing features it agrees approximately with Perna; 

 but it differs conspicuously from Perna in its much more elon- 

 gate form, in the distinct definition of the posterior wing, the 

 smaller number of ligamental pits, and in the crenulation of the 

 hinge. This genus is more nearly related to Gervillia than to 

 any other genus of the Aviculidse, the relation between the two 

 genera being somewhat similar to that which exists between the 

 living forms of Avicula and the Carboniferous genus Monopteria 

 of Meek and Worthen. 



The species which is described in the following paragraph is 

 proposed as the type of Dallieoncha, but the Gervillia ensiformis 

 of Conrad is an equally typical species. The G. aviculoides of 

 Defrance (not Sowerby) and G. solenoides Defrance seem also 

 to belong to this genus, as doubtless do several other forms 

 which have been referred to Gervillia. 

 Dalllconclia invaginata (nov. sp.). Pi. ii, figs. 4 and 5. 



Shell long and slender ; the dorsum gently concave from beak 

 to posterior end, and transversely flattened by the abiiipt inflec- 

 tion of the dorsal border of each valve ; wing well developed ; 

 the anterior depression rather deep ; beaks prominent ; byssal 

 aperture moderately large, oval ; hinge-areas each bearing five 

 or six ligamental pits, which are of unequal size ; the spaces 

 between the pits marked by irregular oblique crenulations. 



Genus AGUILERIA (gen. nov.). 



Shell resembling Perna in general form, in the character of the 

 test, in its muscular markings, and in the possession of a pit- 

 bearing, diverging hinge area upon each valve. The valves are 

 more or less nearly equal in convexity ; a more or less distinct 

 furrow passes from the dorsal border of each valve, near the 

 apex of the beak, to the anterior margin, defining a projecting, 

 more or less inflated anterior portion of the shell, which is 

 homologous Avith the anterior ear of Margaritophora. The 

 beaks are not prominent, situated anteriorly, but not terminal ; 

 ligamental pits distinct, but not numerous. The articulating 



igee Paleont. Francaise, Ter. Cret., iii, pi. 394, fig. 3; and pi. 396, fig. 7 




36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



portion of the hinge of both valves of the adult examples of the 

 type species is marked by crenulations or denticles, which cross 

 the hinge at nearly right angles in front^ but at the posterior por- 

 tion their course is obliquely downward and backward. 



In the type species a small blunt tooth is observable at the 

 anterior end of the hinge of the left valve ; and there is a larger, 

 more oblique one at the posterior end of the hinge. There are 

 corresponding pits in the left valve to receive these teeth, and 

 some specimens also show a slight elevation at the side of the 

 anterior and j^osterior dental pits respectively, suggesting that 

 they represent incipient teeth in that valve. Byssal aperture 

 obscure or absent. 



This genus agrees with Perna in the characters which have 

 already been mentioned, but it differs from Perna in the retreat- 

 ing position of the beak, in the projecting instead of inflected 

 anterior extremity of the shell beneath the beaks, in the crenula- 

 lation of the articulating portion of the hinge, in the smaller 

 number of ligamental pits, and in the absence of a well-defined 

 byssal notch in either valve. 



It agrees with Margarltophora, as shown, for example, by the 

 living species M. pica Gould, from the southern Pacific Ocean, in 

 the character of the test, in the muscular markings, in the pos- 

 session of blunt teeth upon the anterior and posterior portions of 

 the hinge, and in the retreating position of the beaks. It differs 

 from Margarltophora in having well-developed ligamental pits in 

 its hinge areas, a crenulate or denticulate, instead of a smooth 

 hinge border, and in the absence of a compressed anterior ear, 

 and of a distinct byssal notch. 



Bakevellia has some characteristics similar to those of this 

 genus, but its ligamental pits are fewer in number and occupy 

 only the middle portion of the hinge, while its lateral teeth are 

 two or three in number at each end of the hinge, and they are 

 nearly parallel to the hinge border ; the latter being smooth and 

 not crenulate. Besides this there is some reason to doubt whether 

 Bakevellia really belongs to the family Aviculidae, as do Perna 

 and its congeners ; and to which family this new genus is 

 referred. 



The species which is described in the following paragraph is 

 proposed as the type of Aguileria. Senor Aguilera has shown 

 me some examples of a species which he obtained from the Cre- 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 37 



taceous rocks of the State of Puebla, Mexico, which is probably- 

 congeneric with this Texan form. It is probable also that the 

 Gervillia Renauxiana of Matheron, and other published forms, 

 ought to be referred to the genus here proposed. A form from 

 the Cretaceous of Brazil, described by me some years ago under 

 the name of Germllia dissita, but still unpublished, seems to 

 belong to this genus. If those species should be assigned to this 

 genus it may be that the crenulation of the hinge will be found 

 to be an inconstant character; but the other characters which are 

 herein described are regarded as a sufficient basis for its generic 

 identity. 

 Aguileria Cumminsi (sp. nov.). Pi. ii, figs. 1-3. 



Shell inflated, obliquely subelliptical in marginal outline; test 

 thick, hinge line moderately long; hinge areas broad, bearing 

 three or four ligamental pits; hinge border including the surface 

 of the cardinal teeth, distinctly crenulated in adult examples; 

 posterior cardinal tooth moderately large; anterior one small 

 and indistinct. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE II. 



Aguileria cumminsi White. 



Fig. 1. Left side view of an adult example. 

 Fig. 2. Dorsal view of the same. 



Fig. 3. Interior view of a left valve, somewhat narrowed by lateral 

 compression, showing tlie hinge and cardinal area. 



Dalliconcha invaginata W. 



Fig. 4. Right side view of a restored outline, reduced to three-fourths 



natural size. 

 Fig. 5. Front view of an adult example, restored as to its outline from 

 a partially crushed condition. 



Dalliconcha ensifortnis Conrad, sp. 



Fig. 6. A left valve, showing hinge and front features ; introduced for 

 comparison. 



Stearnsia robbinsi W. 



Fig. 7. Left side view of a medium-sized example. 



Fig. 8- Dorsal view of the same. 



Fig. 9. An imperfect example, showing the hinge of the left valve. 



All the figures except 4 are of natural size. 




38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



February 1. 

 The President, Dr. Joseph Leidy, in the chair. 

 Twenty-two persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for jDublication ; 



"On the Cretaceous Formations of Texas, and their reations to 



those of other portions of North America," by Charles A. White. 



"On Zinc — Manganese Asbestos," by George A. Koenig, Ph. D. 



Parasite of a Bat. — Dr. Leidy remarked that it was a common 

 opinion among country people that swallows and bats were 

 infested with bed-bugs and often introduced them into houses. 

 He had convinced himself that the Cimex infesting the cliff- 

 swallow was a different species from the bed-bug.^ He had 

 repeatedly examined bats without finding Cimex. On one of 

 two small bats, from Panama Bay, presented this evening by 

 Dr. Wra. H. Jones, he found two singular insects, which appear 

 to be the Polyctenes fumarius, described by Prof Westwood from 

 a bat of Jamaica. They are about half of the size given for the 

 species, but otherwise appear to agree in all respects. It has 

 four jointed antennae, with the first pair of limbs short and the 

 other pair long. The insect has distinct hemiclytra. 



On a Peculiar Form of Molybdenite. — Dr. Geo. A. Koenig 

 called attention to a specimen of Molybdenite from the German- 

 town quarries, presented by Mr. Thomas Meehan. The Molyb- 

 denite forms a perfect cylinder, 2 inches long })y h. inch 

 diameter. It shows a lamellar structure, but the leaves are 

 twisted and felted together. Owing to the remarkable shape the 

 speaker had supposed the substance to be graphite and placed 

 by some persons — quarrymen — in a h inch drill-hole, ramming it 

 down tightly. Blowpipe tests, however, show the substance to 

 be Molybdenite. In the open tube a peculiar odor was noticed 

 not quite like that of Selenium but near it, and it was believed 

 to be desirable that a quantitative analysis should be made. 



February 8. 

 Mr Thomas Meehan, Vice- President, in the chair. 

 Fourteen persons present. 



A paper entitled "On Invertebrates from the Eocene of Mis- 

 sissippi and Alabama," by Otto Meyer, was presented for pub- 

 lication. 



The following were ordered to be printed. — 



1 Proc. 1877, 284. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39 



ON THE CRETACEOUS FORMATIONS OF TEXAS AND THEIR RELATION TO 

 THOSE OF OTHER PORTIONS OF NORTH AMERICA. 



BY CHARLES A. WHITE. 



Published by permission of the Director of the U. S. Geological Survey. 



The true relations of the different Cretaceous formations which 

 have long been known to exist within the State of Texas to each 

 other, and to those which have been recognized in other portions 

 of North America, have not hitherto been satisfactorily known. 

 Several eminent geologists have written upon the subject, and 

 considerable diversity of opinion has prevailed among them. 

 The' former impracticability of obtaining information by personal 

 observation over any considerable portion of that great region; 

 the destruction by the civil war of the work so well begun by 

 Dr. Shumard, and the limited knowledge then possessed by any 

 one of the general geology of North America, were doubtless the 

 causes which prevented a satisfactory solution of this question. 

 Now numerous railroads traverse the State, the hostile tribes 

 which barred the progress of travelers have been quieted or 

 removed, and a good outline of the geology of the continent is 

 known. 



With the opportunity of availing myself of these advantages I 

 entered last year upon an investigation of the Texas Cretaceous, 

 placing the field work in charge of my chief assistant, Mr. Robert 

 T. Hill. In the latter part of the season I traversed the State in 

 various directions in company with Mr. Hill, reviewing his work 

 and making additional observations. The following section is 

 the result of these labors, and I am so well convinced of the 

 accuracy of its essential features that I do not hesitate to adopt 

 it as the basis of my paleontological and museum work in relation 

 to the Texas Cretaceous, although the order of superposition 

 therein given is so different from what it has been generally sup- 

 posed to be. 



The remarks at the right hand side of the column, which repre- 

 sents the section, are by Mr Hill, who has with considerable 

 care compared this section with those which have hitherto been 

 published as representing the Texas Cretaceous. 




40 



PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1887. 



General Section of the Cretaceous Strata of the Eastern half of 



Texas. 



Navarro Beds. 



7. Strata in Navarro County, given this name by B. F. 

 Shumard and correlated with the Ripley Group in 1861; but 

 not placed in his general section of 1860 ; correlated with 

 Ripley Group at Terrell by R. H Loughridge ; 10th Census 

 Report, Vol. V. Included by Roemer, together with 4 and 5 

 of this section, in his "Kreidebildungen am Fusse des Hoch- 

 landes." Outcrops along a narrow area upon the western 

 border of the Gulf States Tertiary. 



Austin 

 Limestone. 



6. Outcrops to the west of No. 7. occupying the so-called 

 Black Prairie region. Of great thickness and uniformity of 

 character Recognized by Owen as extending into Arkansas, 

 and as equivalent with the rotten limestone of Mississippi, 

 named "Austin Limestone" by B. F. Shumard in 1860, and 

 placed in his section between Nos. 2 and 3 of this section, but 

 its true relation not then recognized. Included by Roemer 

 with No. 7. Sherman, Dallas, Waco, Austin and New Braun- 

 fels are approximately upon the western border of the out- 

 crop. 



5. 



Eagle Ford 



Shales. 



5. Yellow arenaceous, and blue argillaceous shales, narrow 

 exposure west, and along the northern half of No 6. Is the 

 lower part of Shumard's Austin limestone, and also the 

 "Arenaceous Group" and "Fish Bed" of his Lower Cre- 

 taceous . 



Timber Creek 

 Beds. 



4 Coarse ferruginous sands and clays ; fossiliferous. Has 

 been alluded to by various writers as "Tertiary," "Miocene," 

 "Quaternary," etc. Its outcrop is coextensive with the region 

 know as the Lower Cross Timbers. It apparently rests un- 

 conformably upon No. 3. 



3. 

 Washita 

 Division. 



Fredericksburg 

 Division. 



3. Strata of this division at Fort Washita, I. T., partially 

 described in 1854. and called "Senonien" by G. G. Shumard, 

 wrongly placed by B. F. Shumard. in his section, immediately 

 beneath No. 6 of this section. More comprehensively de- 

 scribed by Jules Marcou in IS.TO, and referred to the Neoconian. 

 Is not distinctly separable from No. 2, either by the character 

 of the strata or fossil contents. Outcrop occupies a narrow 

 belt extending southwaid from old Fort Washita via Denison. 

 Denton, Fort Worth, Salado, Austin, and westward of San 

 Antonio ; was included together with No 2 by Roemer in his 

 "Kreidebildungen des Hochlandes." 



Dinosaur Sands. 



2. In 1848 this division was included by Roemer in his 

 "Kreidebildungen des Hochlandes," as seen in buttes north 

 of Fredericksburg. It is also the "Comanche Peak Group," 

 the "Caprina Limestone" and "Caprotina Limestone" of B. 

 F. Shumard in 1860. These authors placed all except the last 

 named strata at the top of the whole Texas Cretaceous series. 

 Outcrops along the borders of the paleozoic areas in Central 

 Texas. 



1. Coarse silicious sand,, popularly called "pack-sand." 

 Occurs between the base of the fossiliferous Cretaceous and 

 the carboniferous series. Contains vertebrate remains. 




1887.] 



XATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



41 



The fossils which have been collected from the strata of this 

 Texas section, have not yet been fully studied with reference to 

 the different formations which they represent. That work has, 

 however, so far progressed as to give some important indications 

 as to the equivalency of certain of these Texas formations with 

 those which different geologists have investigated in the regions 

 to the eastward, westward, and northward from that State; and 

 also to show that a large part of the Texas Cretaceous section is 

 not represented by any of the formations referred to. The 

 following table will serve to formulate these indications, but as 

 the recognition of equivalency is more satisfactory in some cases 

 than in others, each case is considered separately in the following 

 paragraphs : — 



Before making comparisons of the Texas section with the 

 others of this table, it is necessary to make some explanations 

 with reference to the relations of the latter to each other. 



The Mississipi^i section indicated in the foregoing table is that 

 which was published by Prof. E. W. Hilgard in his official report 

 upon the geology of the State of Mississippi.^ The western 

 section is a modification, first proposed by King,^ of the well- 

 known Upper Missouri River section of Meek and Hayden, 

 which is represented by the right-hand column. King, however, 

 placed the equivalents of Nos. 3, 4 and 5 of the Upper Missouri 

 section all together under the name of Fox Hill Group. This 

 being an unnatural grouping of the strata upon paleontological 

 grounds, I still further modified it by placing Nos. 2 and 3 

 together under King's name of Colorado Group ; and Nos. 4 and 

 5 together under one of the original names of Fox HilLs Group 



1 Geology and Agriculture of Mississippi, 1860, p. 3; 



2 U. S. Geol. ExpL, 40th Parallel, vol. i, pp. 305, 306. 



3 Ann. Report U. S. Geol. Surv. Terr, for 1876, p. 22. 




42 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887 



These two consolidated groups, together with the Dakota Group, 

 the separate identity of which all geologists have recognized, con- 

 stitute the western Cretaceous section of the foregoing table. 



The New Mexican Section of Prof. Newberry seems to be 

 practically identical with the western section of the foregoing 

 table.^ He seems to indicate, however, that there is in that region 

 a blending of the Dakota Group Avith the next overlying forma- 

 tion. It may be noted also that at least one of the species which 

 Mr. Meek describes in that report as coming from the middle 

 division of the New Mexican Section^ is now known to belong 

 to a lower horizon than that of the base of his section, namely, 

 to that of the Comanche division of the Texas section. 



Southward from Dakota and Montana I have never been able 

 to separate the equivalent of No. 4 from that of No. 5 of Meek 

 and Hayden's section, either stratigraphically or paleontologi- 

 cally. It is for this reason that I have referred all strata that 

 carry any of the fossils which they indicated as characterizing 

 either of those divisions to the Fox Hills' Group alone. On the 

 other hand, while Nos. 2 and 3 are so closely related to each 

 other paleontologically that they are now generally regarded as 

 constituting one natural group, an ujjper and a lower lithological 

 division of the same are quite as clearly recognizable in southern 

 Colorado and northern New Mexico as in the Upper Missouri 

 Kiver region. 



It is a significant fact that while the separate identity of the 

 Dakota group has been indicated by specific identity of plant 

 remains, which are found over a large region, as well as by 

 stratigraphical position, there is a marked difference in the char- 

 acter of the invertebrate fossils from different localities. I refer 

 especially to those which Mr. Meek^ and myself* have published 

 as coming from strata of that group in Central Kansas, as com- 

 pared with the few which have been found in southeastern Dakota. 

 The Kansas forms are mainly or wholly of marine origin, but 

 they are such as may have lived in littoral waters; while those 

 of southeastern Dakota are of different species, and indicate a 



1 Newberry's Geol. Rept. Expl. Exped. from Santa Fe to Junction of 

 Grand and Green Rivers, pp. 32, 121, 122. 



"^ lb., p. 126, pi. i, figs. 7 a, b. 



3 Ann. Report U. S. Geol. Sur. Terr, for 1870, pp. 297, 301-313 ; Vol. IX 

 U. S. Geol. Sur. Terr., p. 24. 



* Proc. U. S. National Museum, Vol. 2, pp. 295, 296, pi. 5. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43 



less saline condition. It is also significant that, Avith the excep- 

 tion of some marine mollusca which Mr. Meek doubtfully referred 

 to the Dakota group in New Mexico/ no other invertebrates than 

 those which the Kansas and Dakota localities have furnished, 

 have been reported as coming from that group. The facts which 

 have been mentioned, others which will be referred to, and our 

 present knowledge of the general geology of that western region, 

 all seem to indicate that while the greater part of the Dakota 

 group, as it is now known, is a non-marine deposit, we ought to 

 expect to find it to merge into a marine deposit to the southward. 



Now in making comparisons of the Texas Cretaceous rocks 

 with those which have been observed in other parts of the conti- 

 nent, we find that the whole Comanche series represents older 

 strata than are included in any of the other j^ublished sections 

 of North American Cretaceous except perhaps that of California.* 

 The strata of the Comanche series are known to extend north- 

 ward from Texas into the Indian Territory, and some of its 

 characteristic fossils have been found in southeastern Kansas. 

 Fossils belonging to this series have also been found at various 

 points in western Texas and the adjacent southeastern part of 

 NcAV Mexico. They have also been found at various points in 

 Mexico, one locality being upon the western side of the Sierra 

 Madre, in the Mexican State of Sonora.^ 



Judging from all the information which I have been able to 

 obtain, I infer that none of the strata of the Comanche series 

 extend beyond the eastern boundaries of Texas, nor further 

 northward than southern Kansas. It seems probable also, that 

 while this series is wgll developed, both faunally and strati- 

 graphically, in Texas, it has, or originally had, its greatest 

 development within the region which is now the Republic of 

 Mexico. 



Again, judging from present information, there seems to be a 

 complete faunal break at the top of the Comanche series. That 

 is, I am not yet aware that a single fossil species of that series 

 passes up into any of the upper members of the Texas Creta- 

 ceous Section. The Comanche series is therefore not only greatly 

 restricted in its geographical extension to the eastward and 



' Newberry's Geol. Report before cited, p. 121. 



2 White ; Bull U. S. GeoL Surv., No, Vol- 15, p. Ill, 1885. 



^ Gabb; Paleontology of California, Vol. II, p. 257. 




44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



northward, but there seems also to be a clear line of demarkation 

 between that series and the upper one, within the State of Texas. 

 No unconformity of the strata of the upper series upon those of 

 the latter has yet been satisfactorily observed, but it can hardly be 

 doubted that there is at least a brief chronological break between 

 the two series. This latter question, however, I am not now 

 prepared to discuss. 



From the foregoing remarks it will be seen that it is the forma- 

 tions of the upper series alone which can now be discussed with 

 reference to equivalency with the formations represented by the 

 other sections of the foregoing table. Beginning with the lowest 

 member of the upper, or Gulf series, namely, the Timber Creek 

 beds, I regard those strata as, at least in part, equivalent with the 

 Dakota group of the Western and upper Missouri sections, and 

 perhaps equivalent with the Eutaw group of the Mississippi 

 section. Of the latter supposed equivalency I have no paleonto- 

 logical evidence; and the suggestion is made mainly in conse- 

 quence of the stratigraphical position of the Eutaw group. 



That the Timber Creek beds are equivalent with the Dakota 

 group is indicated not only by the position of each with refer- 

 ence to overlying formations, but I have recognized some of the 

 species which were first found in the Dakota strata of central 

 Kansas, in the Timber Creek beds of Denton County, Texas. 



The Eagle Ford shales are recognized as equivalent with the 

 bluish shales, or lower portion of the Colorado group as it is 

 known in Colorado and the adjoining territories. That is, I have 

 recognized certain of the species of the Eagle Ford shales as 

 identical with some which occur in the <=Colorado group to the 

 northwestward of Texas. The lithological character of the shales 

 of both regions is also similar. 



As to the equivalency of the Eagle Ford shales with the 

 Tombigbee sand of the Mississippi section, the only reason 

 I now have for offering that suggestion is its stratigraphical 

 position. 



That the Austin limestone is equivalent, both stratigraphically 

 and paleontologically, with the rotten limestone of the Missis- 

 sippi section, as has been shown by other authors, there seems to 

 be no reason to doubt. I also regard those Texan strata as 

 equivalent with the upper division of the Colorado group. The 

 Texan strata are not only quite similar in lithological character 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 45 



to those of that division as it is known in southern Colorado and 

 New Mexico, but I have recognized several species of fossils as 

 common to the Austin limestone and those more northern strata. 



The paleontological evidence that the Navarro beds are 

 equivalent with the Ripley group of the Mississij^pi section, as 

 presented by Shumard, ^ seems to be beyond question. It is also 

 known that several molluscan species Avhich characterize the 

 equivalents of the Navarro beds in the Cretaceous of the Gulf 

 and Atlantic coast regions, are not uncommon in the Fox Hills 

 group of the Western section. 



The Fox Hills groups of the Western section is clearly recog- 

 nizable as such in the valley of the Rio Grande, in western 

 Texas, where it is found to contain a number of the characteristic 

 species of the group. The evidence is conclusive, also, that the 

 Fox Hills strata there, are, or originally were, directly continuous 

 with those of that epoch which are found to the northward.^ Of 

 the present, or former, direct stratigraphical continuity of the 

 western Fox Hills strata with their presumed equivalents in 

 Eastern Texas, and in the Gulf and Atlantic coast regions, 

 present evidence is not so clear. 



Although the identity of certain species, found in those 

 eastern and western strata respectively, is beyond reasonable 

 question, there is a decided difference, both paleontological and 

 lithological, between them. Still, there seems to be good reason 

 for regarding them as having been synchronously deposited. 

 Their differences were perhaps largely due to the presence of a 

 land area between an eastern and a western marine area during 

 the Fox Hills-Ripley epoch, to the southward of which the two 

 marine areas coalesced. This view seems to find corroboration 

 in the fact that most of the species which are common to both 

 the eastern and western strata, are open sea forms, and conse- 

 quently had a wide geographical range. Those species which 

 differ most in the two regions respectively, are apparently such 

 as had a more restricted range. 



We now come to consider the relation of the Fox Hills strata 

 and the Navarro Beds respectively, to overlying formations. It 

 appears to be unquestionable that the Lignite Tertiary Beds of 

 ■eastern Texas rest directly upon the Navarro Beds, just as the 



1 Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., viii, p. 189. 

 ^ This volume, pp. 18-20. 




46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



equivalent Tertiary strata rest upon the Ripley Group in Missis- 

 sippi; but in Texas the actual contact seems not yet to have been 

 seen by a competent observer. The faunal difference also, between 

 the Navarro and the Lignite Beds, plainly indicate a change in 

 physical conditions, and also a chronological break of some 

 extent. The break, however, may have been only a brief one. 



On the other hand, the strata of the Fox Hills Group in the 

 region of the Rio Grande are directly overlaid by those of the 

 Laramie Group, the two formations so blending together that no 

 sharply defined plane of demarkation between them can be 

 recognized. Thus we find the stratigraphical series in that 

 western region to be an unbroken one up to the top of the 

 Laramie Group; while the eastern series is broken at the top 

 of the Navarro Beds. We are therefore still in doubt as to the 

 true stratigraphical relation of the Laramie Gi'oup with the 

 Eocene Tertiary of the Gulf region. If that relation is ever 

 discovered, it now seems certain that we shall find it in the 

 southwestern part of Texas, or the adjacent part of Mexico. 



The Dakota Group of the western and upper Missouri sections 

 rests directly upon Jurassic strata, which in turn rest upon a 

 series known as the "Red Beds," and usually regarded as of 

 Triassic age. Those Red Beds are there found to rest upon the 

 Carboniferous, or upon older paleozoic rocks. No equivalent of 

 the Jurassic strata referred to have been recognized in connec- 

 tion with the Texas Cretaceous section as given in this article; 

 and they seem to have entirely thinned out before reaching the 

 region of Central Texas. In that region, the strata next under- 

 lying the Comanche series are clearly either those of the 

 Carboniferous, or of the Red Beds. The latter are not known 

 to exist to the eastward of the Carboniferous area of Northern 

 Central Texas, but they reach considerable thickness upon the 

 western side of that area, where they are usually known as the 

 Gypsum formation. 



It appears from the investigations upon which this article is 

 based that certain of the members of the Texas Cretaceous 

 section have not heretofore been recognized, and that the true 

 order of superposition of the formations has been misunderstood, 

 the theoretical section of Marcou^ being more nearly correct than 

 any heretofore published. It also appears that Avhile the lower 



iProc Boston Soc. Nat. History, Vol. VIII, p. 93. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 47 



series of that section is not represented in any of the other 

 published sections in North America, the upper series may be 

 satisfactorily correlated with the western and upper Missouri 

 sections; and in part, at least, with the Cretaceous formations of 

 the Gulf, and Atlantic coast regions. 



In making these investigations the really valuable Avork of 

 Dr. B. F. Shumard has been adopted so far as practicable, and 

 a large proportion of the fossil species which he published, but 

 did not figure, have been recognized. The admirable work of 

 Prof. Roemer also is found to be as useful to-day as it was when 

 it was first published, forty years ago. 



ON ZINC— MANGANESE, ASBESTOS. 



BY GEORGE A KOENIG, PH. D. 



During a visit to the Franklin Zinc Mines in 1879, I obtained 

 from Mr. George, then Superintendent of the Trotter mine a 

 considerable quantity of Sussexite. Among this there was some 

 material which did not quite look like the rest, and was subjected 

 to an investigation. This material I will designate A. After 

 finding it of interest, I obtained from my friend and colleague. 

 Dr. F. A. Genth, a bluish asbestiform mineral from the same 

 locality ; this will be designated as material B. 



Both appear as stiff, rather columnar fibres, and effervesce with 

 acid. But after treatment with dilute HCL, a fine silky mass ot 

 fibres remain, and these were analyzed. The needles appeared 

 under the microscope slightly yellowish or colorless, whilst the 

 substance in bulk appeared bluish, like crocidolite or brown black. 



These needles fuse readily before the blow-pipe with intumes- 

 cence to a black globule, and behave thus like Sussexite. But 

 no color is given to the flame, so characteristically green in 

 Sussexite. 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



After extracting with acid, whereby A gave 73 asbestos, 27 

 calcite, and material B gave 85 asbestos, 15 calcite, the residue 

 was thoroughly dried at 130°C., and then analyzed as follows: — 



100-40 101-00 



The molecular ratio is formed for — 



SiO' : (Mg, Ca, Fe, Zn, Mn H^ O 

 A. 1-8613 1-9716 



1-00 1-06 



(Mg, Ca, Fe, Zn, Mn W) SiO' 

 SiO' : (APFe)' : Mg, Ca, Zn Fe H^ O 

 B. 1-7833 : 0-1279 : 1-6911 



Or, if we add the sesquioxides to the protoxides — 

 1-7833 



= 1-00 : 1-016 



1-8190 

 We have here then two Bisilicates, remarkable for the poly- 

 basic composition, which are either pyroxene or amph'bole 

 asbestiform. I am inclined to classify them as amphibolic. It 

 is probable that these silicates are in a number of collections 

 under the name of Sussexite, with which notably the material A 

 shows much resemblance. 




1887.] natural sciences op philadelphia. 49 



February 15. 

 Mr. Geo. W. Tryon Jr. in the chair. 



Twenty-four persons present. 



Grampus Rissoanus on the American Coast. — Prof. Heilprin 

 called attention to the recent stranding on the New Jersey coast, at 

 Atlantic City, of Risso's whale, Grampus Rissoanus, a form readily 

 distinguished from other allied cetaceans by the peculiar slaty 

 lines which are irregularly distributed over the body. The speaker 

 thought that this was the first instance of this singular Mediterranean 

 species having been recorded from the trans-Atlantic Avaters, and 

 emphasized the difficulty of drawing lines of delimitation to the 

 oceanic faunas. The specimen in question Avas dark-slaty in color 

 on the sides, verging to black on the back and measured about 

 eleven feet in length. 



February 22. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 



Nineteen persons present. 



Origin of the Excretory System in the Earth-ivorm. — Professor 

 Edmund B. Wilson, of Bryn Mawr, Pa., laid before the Academy 

 an account of his observations on the development of Lumbricus 

 olidus, calling especial attention to the i-emarkable similarity that 

 exists between the development of the nephridia and the origin of 

 the excretory system in the vertebrates. The gastrula is formed 

 by a process of invagination. Upon the establishment of the 

 germ-bands, they are found to be essentially similar to those of 

 Clepsine, ending behind in eight large cells, by the continued 

 division of which the bands increase in length as the embryo grows. 

 Two of these large cells are mesoblasts (giving rise to the dis- 

 sepiments, muscles and vessels) two are neuroblasts (giving rise to 

 the ventral nerve-cord), two are nephroblasts (giving rise to 

 the excretory organs) and two give rise to cells whose fate could not 

 be determined. From each of these cells a row of cells extends for- 

 wards on the ventral side of the body between the ectoblast and 

 entoblast. The rows are at first one cell wide, but are converted in 

 front into solid cords, several cells in thickness. The principal 

 interest of the development lies in the origin and fate of the rows 




50 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



produced by the nephroblasts ; these rows are designated as the 

 nephridial rows. In each somite a solid outgrowth from each ne- 

 phridial row takes place into the coelom and is ultimately conver- 

 ted into the nephridium of the corresponding side. Tlius the 

 nephridia arise as metameric outgro^\1;hs from a solid cord of 

 cells that lies in the somatopleure ; and their mode of development 

 is therefore essentially similar to that of the segmental tubes of the 

 vertebrate head-kidney or pro-nephros. 



An examination of the origin of the nephroblast demonstrates the 

 fact that it is originally an ectoblastic cell, which extends to the 

 surface of the body and is only in rather late stages to be distin- 

 guished from other ectoblastic cells by its greater size and by the 

 fact that it sinks below the surface. It always remains, however, 

 embedded in the ectoblast, and unquestionably is derived from that 

 layer. The nephridial rows and the nephridia to which they 

 give rise are therefore ectoblastic structures. 



This conclusion is believed by Prof Wilson to establish two 

 interesting homologies, namely: between the nephridial row of 

 Lumbricus and the Wolffian or segmental duct of the vertebrates, 

 and between the series of nephridia of annelides and the vertebrate 

 head-kidney or pro-nephros. It has very recently been shown that 

 in Raja, Rana, Lacerta, guinea-pig and the rabbit, the segmental 

 duct is dei'ived directly from the ectoblast by a mode of development 

 essentially like that of the nephridial row of ZrM??i6rtcws. Hatschek, 

 Eduard Meyer and Lang have already called attention to the close 

 resemblance between the Wolffian duct of vertebrates and the 

 longitudinal canal that unites the nephridia in the larval Polygordius 

 and in certain adult annelides. Prof Wilson's observations, taken 

 in connection with those of Meyer supply the embryological proof 

 that the two structures are actually homologous, and that the 

 excretory systems of annelides and of vertebrates are constructed 

 upon fundamentally thej ^ame type and originate by similar modes 

 of development. Attention was called to the direct bearing of this 

 result on current theories relating to the origin of the Vertebrata. 



March 1. 

 The President, Dr Jos. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Twenty-six persons present. 



A paper entitled "The Summit Plates in Blastoids, Crinoids and 

 Cystids and their morphological Relations," By Charles Wachsmuth 

 and Frank Springer, was presented for publication. 

 The following was ordered to be printed : — 




Proc.Acad. Nat. Sci.Philada 1887. 



PI. III. 



Meyer, Eocene Invertebrates. 



O.Meyer, del 





1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51 



ON INVERTEBRATES FROM THE EOCENE OF MISSISSIPPI AND 

 ALABAMA. 



BY OTTO MEYER, Ph. D. 



In the illustrations to the following paper, the figures of some 

 insufficiently known species of the Southern Old-Tertiary are included. 

 Notes on these are given. The species referred to are mostly small 

 ones. All the mentioned material has been collected by me and is 

 in my collection. 



Odostomia Boettgeri n. sp, PI. Ill fig. 4, 



Subulate, polished. Nucleus sinistral, vertical, partly hidden, 

 Adult whorls eight, with an impressed line below the suture. 

 Suture distinct. Mouth subelliptical. Inner lip with a strong, 

 nearly horizontal fold. At some distance from the outer lip there 

 are within six raised revolving lines. 



Vicksburg, 3Iis8. "Lower Vicksburgian." 



Turbonilla major n. sp. PI. Ill fig. 3. 



Nucleus sinistral, its axis horizontal, its volutions separate. 

 Adult whorls many, subconvex, covered with strong transverse ribs 

 and densely spirally striated. The spirals do not extend over the 

 ribs. Mouth subquadrangular. Inner lips Avith a strong oblique 

 fold. Base spirally striated, Jackson, 3Iiss. Rare. 



The more common Turbonilla in Jackson is a form which I 

 should rather put to Turbonilla neglecta Mr, than to the above 

 species. Compared with T. major it is much smaller and more 

 slender and the spiral striae are scarcely distinct, otherwise it is 

 very similar. 



DENTITEREBRA n. gen. 



Turreted ; transversely ribbed. Aperture narrow, terminating in 

 a short anterior canal. Inner lip callous, very slightly striate. 

 Outer lip crenulated internally, sinous posteriorly. Base striated. 



On account of its mouth this genus is probably to be placed 

 among the Columbellidae, in which family it is conspicuous by its 

 turreted spire and transverse ribs. It is perhaps to be considered a 

 subgenus of Columbella. If this is not the right j)osition, it may 

 belong to the Pleurotomidae. 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Dentiterebra prima n. sp. PI. Ill fig. 2. 



The pointed nucleus consists of four volutions. Five adult 

 whorls are covered by strong transverse ribs, eighteen on the body- 

 whorl ; the surface else being smooth. Base with strong revolving 

 lines, which are perceptible on the callus of the inner lip. The 

 inner lijD is else without striae or granulations. Crenulations of the 

 outer lip six. Suture distinct, impressed. Claiborne, Ala. 



I found only the figured specimen. It has the appearance of a 

 young Terebra. 



Pleurotoma Aldrichi n. sp. PI. Ill fig. 7, 7a, 7b. 



The nucleus consists of one and a half smooth inflated embryonic 

 whorls. Adult whorls six; they are convex, raised below the 

 suture, covered by transverse ribs and elevated spiral lines. Of the 

 spiral lines those on the middle of the whorl are the strongest. 

 The sinus is above the middle of the whorl. Aperture less than 

 one third of the shell, with rather straight canal. The young shell 

 shows a simple outer lip and a smooth, but not callous inner lip. 

 The older the shell the more deposit on the inner lip it has. Old 

 specimens apparently have strong folds within the outer lip. 



Jackson, Miss. 



I found eight specimens. The specimens, 7 b, has longitudinal 

 folds within the outer lips, the uppermost of which is the strongest ; 

 besides it is somewhat stouter than the others. I consider it, 

 however, as an old specimen of the same species, for the surface, 

 though partially skinned, shows the same ornamentation, the 

 characteristic nucleus is the same, and one of the other specimens 

 shows an indication of the upper fold within the outer lip. 

 Tornatella volutata n. sp. PI. Ill fig. 11. 



Oval-elongate. The nucleus consists of one and a half smooth 

 volutions, the first volution standing almost vertical and being partly 

 hidden. Five adult whorls are slightly convex and covered mth 

 impressed revolving lines. These lines are slightly punctuate; 

 number about six on each whorl, the body whorl excepted, where 

 they are numerous and toAvards the base increase in distinctness and 

 become closer. Mouth rather narrow. Outer lip sharp. Inner lip 

 with a strong fold below the middle, and slightly covered by 

 callus. Suture impressed. 



Vicksburg, Miss. "Higher Vicksburgian." 



I found only the figured specimen. The species is considerably 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53 



cylindrical and approaches the subgenus Adaeonidea Gabb, from the 

 Tertiary of the West Indies. It lacks, however, the anterior 

 truncation of the collumella of Adaeonidea. 

 TTnicardium? eocenense n. sp. PI. Ill fig. 14, 14 a. 



Small, tumid, solid. Margin subquadrangular, rounded 

 anteriorly, truncate posteriorly. Beak turned anteriorly, before it 

 a small cordate lunule. Lunular edge in front of the l)eak somewhat 

 expanded. Below the beak one tubercular cardinal tooth (left valve), 

 lateral teeth nearly obsolete. Anterior muscular impression 

 elongated elliptical, posterior impression cordate-elliptical. Pallial 

 impression not entire. Inside rough. Margin entire. Surface with 

 indistinct concentric impressed lines, crossed by more distinct 

 radiating lines. This ornamentation is wanting on the umboneal 

 part and more distinct near the margin. The radiating lines are 

 slightly more distinct on the posterior slope. Red Bluff, Miss. 



The only found specimen, a left valve, shows three sinuations of 

 the pallial line behind. — I have little doubt that this species belongs 

 either to Unicardiuni d'Orbigny, or Fimhriella Stoliczka, or is to be 

 placed in their neighbourhood. These two genera, however, are not 

 known from the Tertiary formation, and if the Red Bluff form 

 should prove to be a diffevent and new" genus I propose the name of 

 Cordiula for it. 



MIKROLA n. gen. 



Minute, subtrigonal, inaequilateral. Anterior side rounded, 

 posterior side attenuated. Ligament in a trigonal pit below the 

 beak. In the right valve this pit is lodged between two compressed 

 cardinal teeth. Left valve A\dthout distinctly developed teeth. 

 Muscular impressions oval? Pallial line sinuated behind. Surface 

 concentrically ribbed. Margin entire. 



At first sight the genus has much resemblance to Spheniopds, 

 Saudberger, especially the left valve. But the dentition of the right 

 valve is entirely different, and the genus may even not belong to the 

 Myidae. I cannot discover any gaping of the valves. 



Mikrola mississippiensis n. sp. PI. Ill fig. 16, 16a, 16b. 



Beaks almost obsolete. The concentric ribs of the surface end at 

 the posterior terminal slope. Umbonial part smooth. 



Red Bluff, Miss. 



I found three double-valves of this species, which varies very 

 much in the size and number of the concentric ribs. While one 




54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887.. 



of the specimens shows only three large and distant concentric ribs, 

 another one is covered by about nine ribs. 



Turritella carinata H. C. Lea. PI. Ill fig. 1, la. 



Turrz'tei/a caritiataH. CLea; Am. Journ. Science vol. XL, Jan. 1841. p 96, pi, i fig. 10. 



Fig. 1 represents the largest specimen which I have from Claiborne 

 and fig. la is a specimen which shows two of the round embryonic 

 whorls. The name of this species is not preoccupied by Turritella 

 carinata I. Lea, because this latter species is apparently identical 

 with a form previously described. 



Eulima lugubris Lea. sp. PL III fig. 8. 



Pasithea lugubris Lea; L Lea. Contrib. to Geology 1833, p. loi, pi. 4, fig. 81. 



Eulima aciculata, Lea. gp. PL III. fig. 5. 



Pasithea aciculata Lea; L Lea. Contrib. to Geology, 1833, p. 102, pi. 4, fig. 82. 



The specimen Avhich I figure is from Jackson, Miss. It is 

 apparently identical with Lea's Claiborne species. 

 Pasithea guttula Lea. PL III fig. 6. 



Pasithea gzittula Lea; I. Lea. Contrib. to Geology 1833, p. 104, pi. 4, fig. 86. 

 Cylichna Dekayi, Lea. sp. (var?) PL III fig.lO. 



Bulla Dekayi Lea; I. Lea. Contrib. to Geology, 1833, p, 200, pi. 6, fig. 215. 



The specimen which I figure, is from Jackson Miss. It is 

 perhaps to be considered a variety of the Claiborne species. 

 Tornatina crassiplica Conr. sp. PI. Ill fig. 9. 



Bulla crassiplica Conr. Journ. Ac. Philad. I, 2nd Ser., PI. 113, pi. 11, fig. 5. 

 Ringicula mississippiensis Conr. PL III fig. 12. 



Ringicula mississippieiisis Conr. Journ. Ac. Philad. I, 2nd Ser. p. 117/ Pi. i8, fig. 36. 



Dentalium subcompressum Mr. PI. Ill fig. 13, laa. 



D. iubcompressum Mr.; Am. Journ. Sci. I885, XXIX p. 462. D. subcompressum Mr,;. 

 Bull. I. Geol. Surv. Ala. 1886, p. 64, PI. 3, fig. 3, 3a. 



Fig. 13 represents a specimen with complete posterior end, 

 showing also in this respect the great similarity of this species tO' 

 Dentalium compressum Mr. from the German Oligocene. 

 Tellina eburneopsis'? Conr. PL III fig. 15a, 15b. 



ITellina eburneopsis Conr. Am. Journ. Conch. I865, p. 138, PI. 10, fig. i7. 



Conrad describes this species from the so-called locality "Entre- 

 prise. Miss." The specimen, which I figure, is from Jackson, Miss- 

 Fig. 15b gives the profile of the posterior side, showing the 

 emargination at the posterior fold. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



NOTES. 



The following mistake is to be correcte5. I described a specimen 

 from Claiborne as " Crudbulum antiquum" (Bull. 1, Geol. Surv. Ala. 

 1886, p. 68 pi. 1 fig. 11). Having recently carefully cleaned the outside 

 of this specimen it proved to be a Balanus with preserved operculum. 



In an article "Beitrag zur kenntniss des Alttertiaers von 

 Mississippi und Alabama"* I have given, (p. 16, 17) a list of 

 Foraminifera of the eocene of Mississippi and Alabama, which I 

 collected and which were determined by Mr. A. Woodward. The 

 following species, also collected by me and determined by Mr. 

 Woodward, have to be added to this list. 



Clavulina cyliudrica Hantken ; Matthews Landing, Ala.; Clai- 

 borne, Ala.; Jackson, Miss.; Wautubbee, Miss. 



Cristellaria calcar Linne sj).; Matthews Landing, Ala.; Jackson, 

 Miss. 



Cristellaria cidtrata Montfort sp,; Vicksburg, Miss. "Lower 

 Vicksburgian." 



Textularia agglutinans d'Orb.; Jackson, Miss. 



Polymorphina ohlonga d'Orb.; Jackson, Miss. 



Polyynorphina problema d'Orb.; Jackson, Miss. 



MiUolina agglutinans d'Orb.; sp; Claiborne, Ala. 



Truncat'ulina lohatula Walker and Jacob sp.; Jackson, Miss. 



Truncatulina dutemjilei d'Orb.; Jackson, Miss. 



Pulvinulina canariensisf d'Orb; Jackson, Miss. 



Nonionina depressula Walker and Jacob sp.; AVautubbee, Miss. 



Explanation of Plate III. 



Fig. 1. Turritella carinata H. C. Lea, nat. size; Claiborne, Ala. 

 Fig. la. " " " " showing two embryonic 



whorls ; Claiborne, Ala. 

 Fig. 2. Deiititerebra prima n. gen. et n. sp ; Claiborne, Ala. 



Turbonilla major n. sp.; Jackson, Miss, 



Odostomia Boettgeri n. sp.; Vicksburg, Miss. 



Eulima acieulata Lea. sp.; Jackson, Miss. 



Pasithea guttula Lea; Claiborne, Ala. 



7, 7a, 7b. Pleurotoma Aldrichi n. sp.; Jackson, Miss. 



Eulima lugubris Lea ; Claiborne, Ala. 



Tornatina crassiplica Conr. sp.; Vicksburg, Miss. 



*Jahresber. d. Senckenbergischen Nalurforschendeii Gesellschaft, Frankfurt 

 a. M. 1886. 2 plates. 




56 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1887. 



Fig. 10. Cylichna Dehayi Lea. sp. (var?) Jackson, Miss. 



Fig. 11. Tornatella volutata n. sp.; Vicksburg, Miss, 



Fig. 12. Ringicida mississij^piensis CoxiY.',\\c\.Q\)UYg, Miss. "Lower 



Vicksburgian." 

 Fig. 13. Dentallum subcompressum Mr.; Vicksburg, Miss. 

 Fig. 13a. The same specimen, view of posterior end. 

 Fig. 14, 14a. Unicardium? eocenense n. sp.; Red Bluff, Miss. 

 Fig. 15a, 15b. Tellina ehurneopsist Conr.; Jackson, Miss. 

 Fig. 16, 16a, 16a'. Mikrola mississippiensis n. gen. et. n. sp.; Red 



Bluff, Miss. 



March 8. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 

 Fifteen persons present. 



The deaths of Jos. Wilson M. D. and Bernard Persh, members,, 

 were announced. 



March 15. 

 Mr. John H. Redfield in the chair. 



Seventeen persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication: — 



"A List of the Carices of Pennsylvania." By Thomas C. Porter. 



"A Prodrome of a Memoir on Animal Locomotion." By 

 Harrison Allen M. D. 



On the First and Second Sets of Hair Germs Developed in the 

 Skin of Fcetal Cats. — Prof. Ryder remarked that in a foetal Kitten, 

 three and one-half inches in length, which he had examined, the 

 germs of certain hair follicles in the skin were more prominent than 

 the great majority of other hair germs. These larger hair germs were 

 especially obvious on the back and on the top of the head, where they 

 formed very slight superficial elevations of the epidermis. Along the 

 middle region of the back and head, these more prominent hair germs 

 formed linear series or rows, which seemed to correspond somewhat 

 in position to the arrangement of the stripes of color on the back of 

 the adults, as seen in the Ocelot and the black and grey-striped 

 variety of the domestic cat or grimalkin. On the sides and on the 

 limbs the linear arrangement of these larger hair germs disappeared 

 entirely, and they were distributed in an irregular manner, pretty 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57 



uniformly amongst the smaller or less developed hair germs, which 

 were everyAvhere far more numerous, being very probably the germs 

 of the woolly coat or under-pelt. 



It is possible that these larger hair germs represent the rudiments 

 of hairs, which are more particularly sensory in function, and which, 

 like the vibrissse about the snout, and the groups of tactile hairs 

 above the eyes, and the two groups on the cheeks of many mammals 

 are more richly supplied with sensory nerves than others. The 

 distribution of such tactile hairs in the Mammalia, was also consid- 

 ered by the speaker, who referred to the studies of Eschricht, Stan- 

 nius and his own, on the distribution of such tactile hairs on the 

 snouts of the foetuses of various genera of Cetaceans, in which group 

 it had been ascertained that they furnished very good characters 

 diagnostic of species. It was also suggested in support of the view 

 that larger hair germs on the body and head of the foetal cat, were 

 sensory in function, since they seemed to be arranged in conformity 

 with the color areas on the back, which, as had been pointed out by 

 Prof. Harrison Allen, were the recipients of special branches of the 

 superior twigs of the intercostal rami of the spinal nerves in certain 

 animals, (Tamias.) Hairs with a special function have also been 

 found in other regions in the skin of mammals ; as for example, 

 certain hairs described by Schobl on the interdigital wing mem- 

 branes of bats. 



Upon reflection, however, the preceding view of the facts bearing 

 upon the development of two kinds of hair germs in the skin of the 

 foetal cat, were not wholly satisfactory. It was therefore deemed 

 best to subject the skin of the foetus in question to still more search- 

 ing scrutiny. A portion of the skin from the top of the cranium of 

 the foetus was, therefore, carefully pealed off, stained in borax car- 

 mine and cut into sections and mounted as a series. This series of 

 sections revealed several very interesting points, which it was impos- 

 sible to make out from a more superficial examination. 



It was found that the epidermis at this stage was only five or six 

 layers of cells deep, and that there were two very sharply defined 

 types of hair germs growing downwards from it into the corium. 

 The larger and more advanced of these hair germs or follicles were 

 very much thicker and larger than the others, and had penetrated, 

 more deeply into the underlying corium, than the less developed 

 ones. At the point where the larger germs joined the epidermis, the 

 latter was thickened so as to form the elevations marking the posi- 




58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



tions of the larger hair germs, when viewed from the surface. 

 Further study also showed that the rudiment of a hair wa"s well ad- 

 vanced in the larger follicles, while in the smaller ones only the first 

 traces of the hair bulb had been developed, without as yet having 

 given rise to the beginning of a cornified hair shaft. In both kinds 

 of follicles the rudiments of sebaceous glands had been developed 

 from the sides of their necks, though a lumen or cavity had hardly 

 as yet been developed within them. The rete mucosum consisted of 

 of scarcely more than a single layer of rounded cells ; of this layer 

 the younger developing follicles are principally composed. 



These observations show that there are two distinct types of hair 

 germs developed in the skin of the foetal cat, one of which is much 

 more advanced in development, and far less numerous, at the same 

 period, than the other. It has also been shown that the larger germs 

 have a certain orderly linear arrangement in some regions, as, for 

 instance, along the dorsal region. The questions which now present 

 themselves in addition to the interpretation already suggested, relate 

 to the nature of these different kinds of hair germs. It seemed to him 

 not imjDi'obable, as surmised by Professor Leidy, that the larger germs 

 may be those of the contour hairs, while the smaller ones represent 

 the germs of the finer hairs of the under pelt or woolly coat. Yet 

 this view does not dispose of the question raised by the fact of the 

 (Orderly arrangement of the larger germs along the back ; nor are 

 they numerous enough to be the germs of the contour hairs. It maybe 

 that this orderly arrangement relates to an ancestral condition, in 

 which the hairs were fewer and while the ancestral mammalian 

 type was still nearly cold-blooded. This view is supported by the fact 

 that the temperature of the blood of the most reptilian of the mam- 

 malia, viz., the Ornithodelphia, is considerably below that of the 

 Didelphia and Monodelphia, and that in at least one of these forms, 

 Echidna, the spines, which represent hairs, are arranged in rows. 

 In the other genus, Ormthorhynchus, the contour hairs are flat, the 

 under-pelt of wool hairs being very densely set, while the contour 

 hairs are not. Whether the quills or spines of Echidna are to be 

 regarded as having descended by development from contour hairs is 

 not known, but it is to be admitted that hairs of that type are most 

 likely to have been developed into quills or spines, since they gener- 

 ally project above the level of the woolly coat and have a much heavier 

 shaft, which is always nearly straight and not crimped. Such an 

 origin may, with much show of probability, be ascribed to the quills 

 'Of the porcupine. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59 



In a number of mammalian orders, tliere is a marked tendency 

 toward a dorsal, longitudinal striation, or linear alternation of bands 

 or dots of color, and in a number of cases, this striation is well 

 marked only in the young. This seems to be more than a mere co- 

 incidence and probably indicates that in the primitive or ancestral 

 Mammalia, such a pattern was widely prevalent, if not universal. 

 On the sides, on the other hand, there is a tendency toward alterna- 

 ting vertical colors with transverse bars on the limbs. This is a 

 well-marked feature in the tigei", zebra and gnu. Later on it ap- 

 pears that these bars have broken ujd into dots, giving rise to the 

 dappled or the spotted appearance of such forms as the leopard, 

 giraffe and horse. These features have a very important phylogen- 

 etic significance, and point to an ancestral form, in which the color 

 areas were disposed in bands. Looking about, amongst the lower 

 groups, it is in Reptilia alone that we frequently find striping both 

 longitudinal and transverse, and in that it is now admitted by some 

 eminent authorities that the Mammalia are descended from the 

 Reptilia (Theromorpha), some explanation is afforded of the preva- 

 lent type of color marking in the young of many feral Mammalian 

 forms which are not striped when mature. 



The dorsal longitudinal rows of hair germs in the skin of the 

 foetal cat also afford confirmatory evidence. Their coincidence with 

 the bands of color and precocious develo2:)ment, indicates that they 

 are remnants of a more primitive hairy coat. Their linear arrange- 

 ment makes it possible to compare them with the linear and longitu- 

 dinal arrangement of the feathers in birds and of scales in reptiles. 

 In that hairs of mammals, feathers of birds and the corneous scutes 

 of rejjtiles, are closely related structures and developed from homol- 

 ogous layers of the epidermis in these different classes, it is highly 

 interesting to discover that the set of hair germs, which are the first 

 to develop on the back of the foetal cat, also show the primordial, lin- 

 ear arrangement of scales and feathers as observed on the backs of 

 reptiles and birds. 




60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887, 



A PRODROME OF A MEMOIR ON ANIMAL LOCOMOTION. 



BY HARRISON ALLEN, M. D., 



Emeritus Professor of Physiology in the University of Pennsylvania, 



The writer has undertaken at the request of the representatives 

 of the University of Pennsylvania a series of studies on animal 

 locomotion. The subject has been approached from the point of 

 view presented by instantaneous photography, and has been espec- 

 ially based on the results obtained by Mr. Eadweard Muybridge. 

 The writer desires in this -connection to return his acknowledg- 

 ments to Mr. Muybridge for opportunities in examining early 

 impressions of the plates, Avhich he is engaged in publishing under 

 the auspices of the University, and also to state that he is indebted 

 to Prof Thomas Eakins for facilities affordied in studying the results 

 of an experiment in the use of a modified form of Marey's wheel, 

 devised by him in photographing the action of the horse in motion. 



This short paper embraces the points which have been thought to 

 have sufficient interest to appear in advance of the final memoir, 

 and Avill include observations on the movements of the quadrupeds 

 only. 



Many of the statements could have been deduced from data 

 already accessible to the Avriter. But since he Avrote the paper 

 immediately after the inspection of the j^hotographs his conclusions 

 may be said to be based upon them. At the same time he has not 

 hesitated to include materials not embraced by the photographs. 

 Whenever practicable the study of a given series was carried 

 on at the same time that the animal itself lay dissected before 

 him. For example, when studying the photographs of the 

 elephant he had the good fortune, through the courtesy of Prof. 

 Huidekoper, to dissect the limbs of an elephant. He has also dis- 

 sected^ the horse, the ox, the raccoon, the sloth, the skunk, the 

 Virginian deer and the domestic cat. 



THE USE OF TERMS. 



It is necessary to propose the use of a few terms which will clearly 

 express in a word a meaning which otherAvise would require the 

 employment of a cumbersome phrase. The words flexion, extension 



1 In this connection the writer wrishes to give especial acknowledgments to his 

 friends Prof. Horace Jayne and Mr. Edwin A. Kelly. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



abduction, adduction, pronation and supination imperfectly express 

 many animal movements. Thus no adequate word exists for the 

 movement of the hand upward and downward when the forearm is 

 held in semipronation. Such a motion is of importance in describ- 

 ing the wing of the bird and the bat. The term Planation is 

 here thought to be convenient since it expresses the fact that the 

 movement of the hand is in the plane of the flexor surface of the 

 forearm. Planation includes both pronation and supination. 

 Contraplanation as easily indicates a movement at an angle to the 

 plane of the flexor surface of the forearm. It embraces flexion and 

 extension and is not especially demanded, except that a term which 

 includes both flexion extension as well as abduction, as used in the 

 sense of abduction of the thumb, may be acceptable. 



In like manner it has been found useful to employ terms for the 

 different orders of the foot-falls. 



Synchiry indicates that the right and left foot of a single pair 

 act together. Thus in the gallop the horse moves all the feet 

 synchirally. The movement of the lower limlis in man is also 

 synchiral. The feet may act alternately or together. 



Asynchiry would naturally embrace the movements in which 

 the feet act in combinations of hind and forefeet. But since these 

 movements are varied and important, it has been thought desirable 

 to substitute a positive term, and the word heterochiry ' is pro- 

 posed. The walk, the trot and the rack are heterochiral, since 

 the fore foot is followed, not by its fellow, but by a hind foot. 

 When the hind foot alternates with the fore foot of the same side 

 lateral heterochiry occurs. When with the fore foot of one side 

 the hind foot of the opposite side alternates, diagonal heterochiry 

 takes place. 



In connection mth the terms flexion and extension the following 

 will be used : — The movement of a limb against the medium in 

 which the animal is moving constitutes the "stroke." The 

 movement in preparation of the stroke constitutes the " recover." 

 In the descrijition of the " hand over hand " movements of the 

 sloth and the monkey, the word " flexion " has no jilace ; yet the 

 " recover " is used in as exact a sense as in the movements of any 

 other animal. 



1 While assuming the responsibility for this word the writer desire at the same 

 time to say that it was suggested to him in a conversation with his friend Prof* 

 T. N. Gill. 




62 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



When a limb of a terrestrial quadruped rests upon the ground it 

 may be said be " on," and when not on the ground, to be " off." 



The term " sura " Avill be employed as a convenient word to 

 include the hind limb from the knee to the ankle. " Crus" has been 

 retained so generally as a synonym for the entire posterior extremity 

 as not to be available. 



" Stroke " is the period of impact. It is included in flexion, and 

 constitutes its first stage. " Recover " embraces the last stage of 

 flexion and the whole of the period of foreward movement. The 

 terms "stroke" and " recover " are by no means the same as flexion 

 and extension. They simply express certain phases of limb-function 

 which are seen during the acts of backward and foreward movements. 



THE POSITION OF LIMBS. 



In studying the motions of the limb of a vertebrate the position 

 which answers to that taken by the salamander, when at rest, is 

 assumed to be the best adapted for comparison. In this position 

 the limb is horizontal to the plane of the longitudinal axis of the 

 body. The venter of the body and the ventral surface of the limb 

 are on the same jDlane nearly. The limb of a reptile varies scarcely 

 at all from that just named. When a terrestrial animal is erect the 

 limb instead of being on the same plane with that of the body is moved 

 a quarter of a circle downward. In the bird the posterior extremity 

 when at rest is in the same position as the terrestrial, but the ante- 

 rior extremity, in marked contrast to it, is flexed. When extended 

 the extremity is thrown upward to a position as far removed from 

 the horizontal position of the salamander in one direction as is that 

 of the terrestrial quadruped in the other. 



In the movement of all limbs the directions in the main are for- 

 ward and backward. Both the movements are oblique but between 

 them is a position which is straight. In the terrestrial animal 

 this position may be said to answer to a line in the anterior extremity 

 which lies immediately in advance of the withers and in the posterior 

 extremity to the centre of the acetabulum. 



THE MOVEMENTS OF LIMBS. 



If a limb can be conceived moving in vacuo it can be at once 

 understood that propulsion is impossible. For propulsion can follow 

 only upon the initiation of an impetus and this in turn only by 

 the resistance of the limb against the medium in which the animal 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63 



is moving, or in the case of the terrestrial animal, the surface of the 

 ground. 



The resistance of the air and the water are so much less than 

 that of the earth that the acts of flying and of swimming become 

 radically different from those of walking, of running, or of any 

 allied movement. In flying and swimming the resistance made by 

 the limb against the medium in effecting an impetus does not arrest 

 the movement of the pinion or the foot ; whereas in terrestrial 

 movements the instant that the foot strikes the earth the resistance 

 is great and the arrest is complete. 



In the swimming turtle the first stage of the recover drives the 

 foot in spite of the resistance of the water to the point at which the 

 second stage begins. With some slight modifications the same is 

 true of fossorial animals. Thus in flying, in swimming, and in 

 burrowing the limb describes a continuous movement which unites 

 the path of the stroke to that of the recover. In the animal moving 

 on the surface of the ground, the foot being brought to rest, an 

 absolute break occurs between the beginning of the act of recover 

 and its completion, — the time which would be required to describe 

 the interval and thus to complete the union corresjaonds to the period 

 that the foot is on the ground. This period constitutes the stroke. 



The limb rests on the ground until the trunk moves beyond the 

 point at which it can maintain itself. It is lifted at intervals which 

 are dependent upon the momentum of the moving mass. One, two, 

 or three limbs may be on the ground at the same time. The rates 

 at which the succession of the foot-falls occur, in their turn, depend 

 not only upon the rate of speed at which the animal is moving, 

 but on the gait as well. 



KINDS OF WORK DONE BY THE LIMBS. 



The kinds of work done by the limbs are two in number, viz., that 

 done by the fore limbs and that done by the hind limbs. The hind 

 limbs are more powerful than the fore limbs, and in some animals, 

 as the kangaroo and the jumping mouse, are the main effectives, 

 No terrestrial animal depends for support upon the fore limbs. 

 When all the limbs are equal or nearly equal in length, the prepon- 

 derance is still in favor of the hind limbs owing to the fact that the 

 great backward movement of these limbs on the trunk is made possible 

 by the fixation of the bones to the pelvis and through this structure 

 to the vertebral column. Not only is this the case but the hind limbs 

 alone possess the power of propelling the body so as to throw upon the 




64 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



fore limbs the labor of accommodating themselves to the rate of work 

 of their more powerful associates. AVhen an animal is moving at a 

 high rate of speed, as in the gallop, the synchiral action of the hind 

 limbs projects the body Avith such force as to compel the fore limbs to 

 act simply as props which successively carry the body forwards until 

 one of the hind limbs is again in position to give the body a second 

 impetus. In proof of this assertion it is only necessary to observe 

 that the greatest height attained by the trunk is that secured by the 

 rump when both hind feet are off the ground. The statement gener- 

 ally made that the horse leaves the ground by one of the fore feet 

 creates the impression that he gains the springing force from this 

 foot, all the previous movements being in preparation for such a 

 spring. In place of this statement another is here substituted, viz., 

 that the horse springs from that hind foot which last leaves the 

 ground and is " off" from all feet when he simply relinquishes the 

 support afforded by the last prop, that is to say the last fore foot. 



If the fore and hind limbs were based on the same plan the motion 

 of an animal would be either a series of springs — the two feet push- 

 ing against the ground at the same moment — or a series of steps, the 

 two feet moving alternately. While closely resembling one another 

 the two limbs are not on the same plan. If any motion takes 

 place in the vertebral column at the time that the fore limb is 

 moving it is noticed that it occurs in the region of the neck. The 

 scapula has a slight motion downward and backward. The motion 

 in the hind limbs occur in the region of the lumbar vertebrae while 

 the pelvic bones are fixed. The limit of the forward motion of the 

 hind limbs is dependent upon the flexibility of the lumbar vertebrae. 

 The limit of the similar motion of the fore limb is determined by 

 the action of the muscles alone. The forward motion of the fore 

 limbs is essentially the same in all animals; but the forward 

 movement of the hind limbs is variable, because the lumbar vertebrae 

 differ in degrees of flexibility. In unguiculates there is more lumbar 

 flexibility than in ungulates. In backward movements the opposite 

 obtains, for in these positions the fore limbs can be carried back 

 to a variable distance. In the deer and its congeners the fore foot can 

 be brought to a point near the centre of the body, and the limb be 

 vertical. In the horse the fore limb in backward strain is very 

 oblique and the foot while well placed under the trunk cannot reach 

 the centre. In the macaque the fore foot cannot pass beyond a 

 vertical line which intersects the trunk a little back of the shoulder- 

 joint. The backward movement of the hind limb is nearly the 




1887.] NATURAL SCIEKCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 65 



same in all animals. The leg is always carried in a direct path, the 

 limit of the movement being determined solely by the length of the 

 limb. In a word the forward movement is the less constrained in 

 the fore limb while the backward movement is the least constrained 

 in the hind limb. The most variable movements are the backward 

 for the fore-limb and the forward for the hind-limb. 



The foot in all animals excepting the horse (and even in this single 

 toed form the movement of the foot is nearly all essentials the same) 

 is carried forward in semipronation. The foot strikes the ground on 

 the outer border. Pronation now begins and is completed by the 

 time the perpendicular line is reached. The foot leaves the ground 

 by the inner border (the toes being successively abducted) so that 

 the pressure of the body is borne from without inward across the 

 foot. The foot is always everted as it leaves the ground. In a 

 plantigrade animal, as the raccoon, the foot is carried during the last 

 part of recover nearly parallel to the plane of support. In the 

 rapid motion of ungulates the foot may actually touch the 

 ground nearly to the hock. In backward strain the hock or 

 heel is gradually raised and at the end of strain the animal is seen 

 touching the ground by the tip of the inner functionally active toe. 

 In the horse the foot leaves by the tip of the hoof. It is likely that 

 the degree of impact of the outer border of the foot wdll be found to 

 correlate mth the degree of develoj^ment of the calcaneo-sural joint*- 

 since the weight must be carried along the outer border to the rest 

 of the limb. At the end of backward strain the limb from the knee 

 distally is in the same line. The moment flexion begins eversion is 

 established, and the limb becomes angulated outward at the ankle. 

 The main axis of the proximal facet of the astragalus is correlative 

 with the degree of this obliquity. It is most pronounced in the 

 horse, less so in the ox, and scarcely at all in the hog. 



It has been already seen that when the limb is in the position of 

 arrest and the momentum carries the body beyond the perpendicular 

 line it is thrown into " backward strain." The instant that the strain 

 begins the knee is seen to move outward and the hock to move inward. 

 The parts of the foot below the heel remain unchanged. The impact 

 of the structures of the limb are thus impaired in backward strain. 

 It is well known that in the pentadacyle forms the foot can be 

 readily rotated at the medio-tarsal joint and it is a reasonable 



*A name proposed for the joint existing between the fibular process of the 

 calcaneum and the fibula or the tibia. 




66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



assumption that it is at this joint that the distal part of the limb 

 moves when the entire limb rotates outward. The femur, the bones 

 of the leg, and the astragalus act as one factor ; and the calcaneum and 

 the remaining bones of the foot as the other factor. The socket for the 

 proximal motion occurs at the hip, and that for the distal at the 

 concavity of the scaphoid bone. There is also considerable motion 

 between the calcaneum and the cuboid bone and between the cal- 

 caneum and the lower end of the fibula, if this bone is present, or 

 with the outer end of the tibia if it is absent. Outward rotation of 

 the main portion of the limb carries the calcaneum slightly inward 

 by reason of the articulation between the calcaneum and the bones 

 of the leg, Facets are here present in most terrestrial mammals. 

 In the wombat the articulation is evident. It is present in a 

 rudimentary form in man. 



The outer surface of the calcaneum of the bear is marked l)y a 

 stout roughened ridge as it enters into articulation with the fibula. 

 In the dog the surface is a small embossment which probably is in 

 contact with the fibula only at the time of the backward strain. In 

 a single old dog examined the same ridge is present as in the bear. 

 A similar ridge which developed under the stimulus of diseased 

 action is seen in the skeleton of the tiger in the Museum of the 

 Academy. 



As the knee is rotated outward the outer border of the foot is 

 slightly inverted. This disposition is opposed by the peroneus 

 longus muscle which everts the foot. Coincident with the inversion 

 the external crucial ligament becomes tense and the tendency to 

 torsion is checked. 



The first movement noticed in the limb after it is beyond the 

 centre of gravity is the flexion of the foot. In the horse the hoof is 

 thrown backward and the under surfiice of the foot is directed back- 

 ward, the heel being raised first. The sole is next directed 

 upward. In animals possessing more than one functionally active 

 toe the toes are quickly adducted in the air so as to oflfer the least 

 resistance to the impetus of the entire body. Associated with the 

 above a pronounced flexion of all parts of the limb occurs excepting 

 at the hip, where the movement is slight. A movement of the thigh 

 toward the trunk is indeed discernible. In animals possessing long 

 thigh-bones, such as the elephant, the movement is more decided than 

 in the ungulates. The same remarks are applicable to the move- 

 ments of the humerus. The degree to which flexion is carried is 

 more marked in the young than in the adult, and in terrestrial than 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 67 



in arboreal creatures. In the sloth ( Cholcejnis) flexion is absent, 

 the limbs being advanced by a swinging motion at the shoulder and 

 the hip. 



The unaided eye receives the impression of backward movement 

 but fails to be impressed with forward movement. It may hence be 

 inferred that the former is a quicker movement than the latter. 



In the fore limb the last state of extension of the forearm answers 

 to the action of the extensors of the carpus and of the digits. In the 

 less delicate movements of the hind limb the muscles which extend 

 the tarsus and the toes move the foot wdth less precision and it is 

 likely with less speed. 



Biological Department of the University of Pennsylvania, March 1st, 1887. 




68 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



March 22. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Twenty-four persons present. 

 The following were ordered to be printed : — 



A LIST OF THE CARICES OF PENNSYLVANIA. 

 By Thos. C. Porter. 



All the species of Carex contained in this list are represented in 

 the herbarium of Lafayette College by specimens from all the coun- 

 ties named, with the single exception of C. Torreyi. It will be 

 observed, that, contrary to the common usage, the county is put first, 

 the particular station next, and then, the name of the collector, in 

 italics. When the latter is Avanting, it indicates that the author 

 himself is the collector. 



The order of arrangement and most of the changes in nomencla- 

 ture are taken from the Synojms of North American Carices, by L. 

 H. Bailey, Jr., published in the Proceedings of the American Acad- 

 emy of Arts and Sciences, 1886. 



1. Carex pauciflora, Lightf. 



Susquehanna, near Montrose, Garber, 1869 ; "Wayne, Torrey 

 Lake, (rarfter, 1870. Very rare. The southern limit of the species. 



2. Carex subulata, Michx. 



Schuylkill, Broad Mountain, in a bog beside the railroad, in 

 company Avith the very rare and local Jtcncus Smithii, Engelm., 

 1866. According to Darlington's Flora Cestrica, it has also been 

 found in Chester County. 



3. Carex folliculata , L. 



Monroe, Pocono ; Lackawanna, Moosic Lake ; Luzerne, Car- 

 bondale, Garber ; Schuylkill ; Northampton, Pen Argyl ; Del- 

 aware, Tinicum ; Lancaster, Smithville Swamp ; Centre, Bear 

 Meadows ; Venango, East Sandy Creek, Garber. Common in the 

 mountains, but rare elsewhere. 



4. Carex intumescens, Rudge. 



Monroe, Water Gap, Kni^pe ; Northampton ; Bucks, (Moyer's 

 Cat.) ; Chester, (F1. Cestr.) ; Lancaster ; Blair, Boeeking ; 

 Armstrong, Knipe. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 69 



5. Carex Grayii, Carey. 



Clearfield, McMinn, 1867 ; Mercer, Garber, 1868. Dela- 

 ware, Tinicum, A. H. Smith, 1867. Very rare east of the Alleghenies. 



6. Carex lurida, Wahl. (C. lup^llina, Muh\.). 



Monroe, Water Gap, Knipe; Northampton; Bucks, (Moyer's 

 Cat.) ; Delaware, Dr. George Smith ; Chester, (F1. Cestr.) ; 

 Lancaster ; Franklin ; Huntingdon. 



7. Carex lurida, Wahl., mr. polystachya, Bailey. 



Clearfield, McMinn; Crawford, Conneaut Lake, Garber. 

 Rare. Not known east of the Alleghenies. 



8. Carex oligosperma, Michx. 



Centre, in a bog four miles west of Pennsylvania Furnace ; 

 Carbon, borders of Round Pond, Aug., 1867. Very rare. The 

 southern limit of the species. 



9. Carex rostrata, Withering. 



Monroe, Tobyhanna Mills and Tunkhannock Creek ; Erie, 

 Presque Isle, Garber. 



10. Carex rostrata, Withering, var. utriculata, Bailey. 



Monroe, Dj-. Traill Ch^een, Moyer ; Sullivan, C E. Smith ; 

 Tioga, Garber ; Centre, Bear Meadows ; Elk, McMinn. 



11. Carex monile, Tuckerman. 



Bucks, Sellersville, Fretz ; Chester, (F1. Cestr.) ; Huntingdon, 

 Barrens, Lowrie; Elk, McMinn; Crawford, Garber; Mercer, 

 Middlesex, Garber. 



12. Carex Tuckermani, Boott. 



Monroe, Pocono ; Huntingdon; Clearfield, Jicilii?m; Mer- 

 cer, Garber. Rare. 



13. Carex bullata, Schkuhr. 



Lancaster, Smith^dlle Swamp ; Lycoming, Limekiln Swamp, 

 McMinn. Rare and local. 



14. Carex retrorsa, Schweinitz. 



Huntingdon, near Pennsylvania Furnace, Boecking, 1870. The 

 only station known in the State. The southern limit of the species. 



15. Carex tentaculata, Muhl. 



Monroe ; Northampton ; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.) ; Chester, 

 (Fl. Cestr.) ; Lancaster ; Centre ; Blair, Boecking ; Clear- 

 field, McMinn; Clarion, Garber. Common and abundant. 



16. Carex tentaculata, Muhl., var. gracilis, Boott. 



Wayne, Garber; Monroe; Huntingdon; Clearfield, 

 McMinn. 




70 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



17. Carex Schweinitzii, Dewey. 



Monroe, Pocouo, Schweinitz. The specimen is from Schweinitz 

 himself, but it does not seem to have been collected in Pennsylvania 

 since his day. 



18. Carex hystricina, Mlihl. 



Monroe, Water Gap, Knipe ; Northampton, Easton ; Bucks, 

 (Moyer's Cat.) ; Chester, (Fl. Cestr.); Lancaster; Franklin; 

 Huntingdon. 



19. Carex Pseudo-Cyperus, L. Erie, Presque Isle, Garber. 



20. Carex Pseudo-Cyperus, L, var. comosa, W. Boott. 



Wayne, Garber ; Pike, Fiot ; Northampton, near Easton ; 

 Bucks, Diffenbaugh, (Moyer's Cat,) ; Lancaster ; Huntingdon, 

 Alexandria ; Crawford, Couneaut Lake, Garber ; Erie, Presque 

 Isle, Garber. 



21. Carex stenolepis, Torrey. 



Huntingdon, near Alexandria; Greene, Greensboro, Garber. 

 Very rare and local. 



23. Carex squarrosa, L. 



Bucks, Diffenbaugh; Fhil.at>bl.fb.ia, Diffenbaugh ; Delaware, 

 Dr. G.Smith; Chester, (Fl. Cestr.), Lancaster; Huntingdon; 

 Clearfield, McMinn; Mercer, Garber; Allegheny, Knipe. 

 .23. Carex Shortiana, Dewey. 



Franklin, in meadows around Mercersburg. The only station 

 inown in the State. Its northern and eastern limit, 



24. Carex scabrata, Schweinitz, 



Wayne, Garber; Carbon; Northampton; Bucks, (Moyer's 

 ■Cat.) ; Philadelphia, on the Wissahickon, C. E. Smith and Dr, Jos. 

 Leidy; Lancaster; Franklin; Sullivan, C. E. Smith; Blair, 

 Dowrie. Along shaded rivulets, especially in the mountains. Not 

 common. 



25. Carex vestita, Willd. 



Northampton, Pen Argyl ; Bucks, BristoljDiffenbaugh, (Moyer's 

 Cat,); Lancaster, Smithville SAvamp; Clearfield, McMinn; 

 Cameron, McMinn. Rare, 



26. Carex filiformis, L. 



Wayne, Garber ; Monroe, Water Gap, Knipe ; Erie, Presque 

 Isle, Garber, Guttenburg. Rare. 



27. Carex filiformis, L., var. latifolia, Boeckeler,( C. lanuginosa,Michx.) 

 Monroe, Water Gap, Knipe ; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.) ; Chester, 



(Fl. Cestr.) ; Berks ; Lancaster ; Franklin ; Elk, McMinn. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 71 



28. Carex trichocarpa, Muni. 



Monroe, Wiiter Gap, Kaipe ; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.) ; Lancas- 

 ter ; Franklin ; Centre, Boeching ; Elk, McMinn. 



29. Carex riparia, W. Curtis. (C. lacustris, Willd.) 



Wayne, Garher ; Bucks, Garher ; Delaware, Tinicum, J.. H". 

 Smith ; Tioga, Garher ; Elk, McMinn. Rare. 



30. Carex Buxbaumii, Walil. 



Lehigh, near ]\Iountainville ; Bucks ; Lancaster ; Franklin. 

 Rare. 



31. Carex vulgaris, Fries. 



Monroe, Water Gap, Kni2)e; Centre, McMinn. Very rare. 

 Its southern limit. 



32. Carex aquatilis, Wahl. 



Erie, Presque Isle, Guttenberg. 



33. Carex stricta, Lamarck. 



Wayne, Garher ; Monroe ; Northampton ; Chester, (F1. 

 Ce.str.); Berks, Garher; Lancaster; Franklin; Elk, il/cJ/mn. 

 Very common and variable ; growing in marshy places in tussocks, 



34. Carex aperta, Boott. 



Bucks, Moyer, Fretz ; Lycoming, A. H. Smith, McMinn. Rare. 



35. Carex torta, Boott. 



Northampton, J^iof ; Bucks, Nockamixon Rocks; Chester, Can- 

 Ay; Franklin; Perry, Garher; Sullivan, on the Loyalsock, 

 C.E.Smith; Huntingdon; Blair, Burgoon's Gap ; Clearfield, 

 Sandy Lick, McMinn; Elk, McMinn. Along the margins and 

 often in the beds of rivulets, in shaded, rocky ravines. Sometimes 

 the fertile spikes are much crowded and much branched (var. com- 

 jwsita, Porter), giving the plant a singular appearance, as if, to use 

 the phrase of Mr. Canby, it had "run mad." 



36. Carex prasina, Wahl. ( C. miliacea, Muhl.) 



Northampton ; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.) ; Philadelphia, Dr. J. 

 Leidy ; Chester, (F1. Ce.str.) ; Berks, Dr. J. P. Hiester; Lan- 

 caster; Sullivan, A, H. Smith; Elk, McMinn. 



37. Carex crinita, Lamarck, 



Monroe ; Northampton ; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.) ; Chester, 

 (Fl. Cestr.) ; Lancaster ; Elk, McMinn. 



38. Carex crinita, Lam., var. gynandra, Schw. and Torr, 



Wayne, Garher; Lackawanna; Luzerne, Garher; Monroe, 

 Pocono ; Schuylkill ; Northampton, Seidersville, R. G. Bechdolt; 

 Chester, Landenberg, Canhy ; Tioga, Garher ; Clearfield, 




72 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



McMinn ; Armstrong, Garber. — Common in the mountains, but 

 rare elsewhere. 



39. Carex Magellanica, Lamarck. ( C. irrigua, Smith.) 



Monroe, on the Tunkhannock, Dr. Traill Green, June, 1861. 

 Very rare. Its southern limit. Since found (in 1886) in the same 

 neighborhood, by Prof. Dudley, who writes, "The unusually obtuse 

 perigynia more resemble those of the Fuegian specimens figured by 

 Boott than those of any other specimens or figures I have access to." 



40. Carex limosa, L- 



Wayne, Garher; Monroe, Pocono; Tioga, Garber; Bucks, 

 Sellersville, Moyer. — Rare. Chiefly in sphagnous bogs on the 

 mountain-plateaus. 



41. Carex virescens, Muhl. 



Moi^noE, Knipe ; Northampton, around Easton ; Bucks, ^7-6^2! ; 

 Philadelphia, Diffenbcmgh; Delaware, A. H. Smith; Mont- 

 gomery, Diffenbaugh; Lancaster; Franklin. — Common. 



42. Carex triceps, Michx. 



Northampton; Bucks; Philadelphea; Delaware, Tinicum; 

 A. H. Smith; Chester, (F1. Cestr.) ; Lancaster; Franklin; 

 Lycoming, A. H. Smith; Tioga, Garber; Blair, Boecking. A 

 common and variable species. 



43. Carex Smithii, Porter. (Olney, Exsicc, fasc. l,7io. 28.) 

 Glabrous, except the sheaths of the narrowly-linear leaves ; culms 



slender, erect, I to 2 feet high ; fertile spikes 2 to 4, short-cylin- 

 drical, nearly sessile, approximate ; perigynia globular, contracted 

 to a manifest point, crowded but not imbricated, smooth, a little 

 longer than the ovate, brownish, mucronate scales ; akenes broadly- 

 pyriform, with very short, abrupt, inflexed tips. — Chester; Dela- 

 ware, Tinicum and Pusey's Woods, A. H. Smith. 



In shape and appearance, the spikes, perigynia and akenes, and 

 the olive-green hue of the plant, at first sight, suggest C. granularis 

 rather than C. triceps. — It is named in honor of Mr. Aubrey H. 

 Smith of Philadelphia. Just beyond our borders, Mr. Canby re- 

 ports it as "very common in fields and woodlands around Wilming- 

 ton, Delaware," and specimens from Gloucester, N. J. Avere sent me 

 by the late Chas. F. Parker. It is certainly a Avell-marked variety, 

 if not a distinct species, 



44. Carex longirostris, Torrey, 



Lycoming, near Williamsport, McMviin; Monroe, Water Gap, 

 Knipe ; Bucks, Nockamixon Rocks, Garber. Rare and local. Its 

 southern limit. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 73 



45. Carex arctata, Boott. 



Monroe, Pocono, Dr. Traill Green ; Sullivan, Chas. E. Smith; 

 Blair, Boecking ; Elk, McMinn. — Rare. Its southern limit. 



46. Carex debilis, Michx. 



Monroe, Pocono ; Northampton ; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.) ; 

 Delaware, A. H. Smith; Chester, (Fl. Cestr.) ; Lancaster, 

 Smithville Swamp ; Centre, Bear Meadows, Lowrie ; Hunting- 

 don ; Blair, Boecking ; Clearfield, McMinn ; Mercer, Garber. 



47. Carex debilis, Michx., var. pubera, Gray. 



Centre, Bear Meadows, Lowrie ; Lancaster, Smithville Swamp. 

 Very rare and local. 



48. Carex aestivalis, M. A. Curtis. 



Chester. (Fl. Cestr.); Lackawanna, Carbondale, Garber; 

 Sullivan, C. E. Smith ; Tioga, Garber. — Rare. 



49. Carex gracillima, Schweinitz. 



Lehigh, Garber ; Northampton ; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.) ; 

 Chester, (Fl. Cestr.) ; Lancaster ; Franklin ; Blair, Boecking. 

 Common. 



50. Carex Davisii, Schw. & Torr. 



Northampton ; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.) ; Chester, (Fl. Cestr.) ; 

 Lancaster ; Franklin, Mercersburg. — Rare. 



51. Carex grisea, Wahl, 



Monroe, Water Gap, Knipe; Northampton, Easton ; Bucks, 

 (Moyer's Cat.) ; Chester, (Fl. Cestr.) ; Lancaster ; Franklin ■ 

 Blair ; Allegheny, Knipe. — Common. 



52. Carex glaucodea, Tuckerman. 



Northampton, Easton, Pen Argyl, Bethlehem, Fiot ; Bucks, 

 Nockamixon Rocki^, marshes near Quakertown ; Delaware, Pusey's 

 Woods, A. H. Smith; Lancaster; Lycoming, McMinn. — I first 

 met with this species in a swamp near Smithville, Lancaster County, 

 in 1863. It struck me at once as new, and specimens, name and 

 distinctive characters were sent to Col. Olney, who informed 

 me that it had also been discovered near Amherst, Mass., and that 

 Prof. Tuckerman had just described it and his description would 

 soon appear in the Proceedings of the American Academy of Arts 

 and Sciences. Since then, it has been found at a number of stations 

 in Eastern Pennsylvania and the neighboring States. In 1880, I 

 collected it on the summit of Roane Mtn., N. C. 



53. Carex granularis, Muhl. 



Northampton ; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.) ; Chester, (Fl. Cestr.) ; 



6 




74 PROCEEDINGS OE THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Lancaster; Franklin, Mercersburg. — Common. 



54. Carex granulans, Miihl., var. Haleana, ( C. Haleana, Olney. Exsiccat. 



fasc. iii, no. 14.) 



Glabrous ; leaves broad and very glaucous ; culms and peduncles 

 slender and weak ; fertile spikes much smaller and shorter ; perigy- 

 nia less than half the usual size, rather narrowly ovoid, not globular. 



Northampton, near Easton ; Lancaster, Smithville Swamp ; 

 Allegheny, Kuijje. — Outside of our limits, it has been collected 

 at Madison, Wise, by T. J. Hale, and in Montgomery County, Va., 

 by Dr. Joseph Leichj. 

 65. Carex flava, L. 



Crawford, Conneaut Lake, Garber. — The only station known. 



56. Carex (Ederi, Ketz. 



Erie, Presque Isle, Garber. — The only station known. 



57. Carex pallescens, L. 



Wayne, Garber ; Lackawanna, Carbondale, Garber ; Clinton, 

 McMinn. — Rare. The southern limit of the species. 



58. Carex Torreyi, Tuckerman. 



Specimens of this rare species are reported as existing in European 

 herbaria, collected by Schweinitz near Bethlehem, Penna., and 

 named by him C. abbreviata. This may be correct, but among his 

 plants, now in j^ossession of the Philadelphia Academy, there is a 

 sheet, at the top of which he has written " Carex lanosa — abbreviata," 

 and at the bottom, " Bethlehem." The eight or ten specimens on 

 the sheet, fastened down with paper-strij)s, are all C. vestita, Willd. 

 Although sought for in his old haunts, C. Torreyi has not yet been 

 rediscovered. 



59. Carex conoidea, Schkuhr. 



Monroe, Water Gap, Knipe ; Northamp'j'ON ; Bucks ; Dela- 

 ware, Canby; Berks, near Reading; Lancaster; Franklin; 

 Ly'Coming, McMlnn. 

 i60. Carex oligocarpa, Schkuhr. 



Northampton, Easton ; Bucks, Sellersville, Fretz ; Lancaster, 

 on the Conestoga. — Rare. 



The specimens of Dr. Fretz exactly agree with those of Dr. Sart- 

 well from Penn Yan, W. N. York, and I cannot see in them any 

 likeness to the southern narrow-leaved variety of C. grii^ea, to which 

 they have been referred. 

 61. Carex Hitchcockiana, Dewey. 



Northampton, Easton; Lancaster; Allegheny, Knipe. 

 Rare. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 75 



62 Carex laxiflora, Lamarck. 



Bucks, (Mover's Cat.) ; Lancaster ; Blair, Lowrie. 



63. Carex laxiflora, Lam., var. styloflexa, Boott. 



Lehigh, Garber ; Northampton, Bethlehem ; Bucks, Qarher ; 

 Berks, Neversink Mtn. ; Delaware, Tinicum, A. H. Smith. — Rare. 



64. Carex laxiflora, Lam., var. patulifolia, Carey. 



Monroe, Water Gap, Knipe; Northampton; Lancaster; 

 Huntingdon ; Allegheny, Knipe. 



65. Carex laxiflora, Lam., var. intermedia, Boott. 

 Northampton ; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.) ; Franklin, Luzerne, 



Garber; Lycoming, McMinn; Mercer, Garber. 



66. Carex laxiflora, Lam., var. striatula, Carey. 

 Northampton; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.); T>^i.xwab.k, Diffenhaugh] 



Lancaster. 



67. Carex laxiflora, Lam., var. latifolia, Boott. 



Bucks, Nockamixon Rocks ; Lancaster; Allegheny, Garfeer, 



68. Carex retrocurva, Dewey. 



Northampton; Bucks, Jfo^/er; Lancaster; Franklin ; Cen- 

 tre, Boecking. — Rare. 



69. Carex digitalis, Willd. 



Northampton ; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.) ; Delaware, Dr. G. 

 Smith; Chester, (F1. Cestr.); Lancaster; Tioga, Garber; 

 Clearfield and Elk, McMhm. 



70. Carex platyphylla, Carey. 



Monroe, Water Gap, Knipe ; Bucks, Nockamixon Rocks ; 

 Chester, Black Rock Tunnel, Dlffenbaugh ; Lancaster ; Sulli- 

 livan, C. E. Smith; Centre, Boecking; Allegheny, Knipe. 

 Rare. 



The C. platyphylla of Darlington's Flora Cestrica is probably 

 C. laxiflora, Lam. 



71. Carex Careyana, Torrey. 



Allegheny, Knipe. — From one station only. 



72. Carex plantaginea, Lamarck. 



Bucks, Nockamixon Rocks ; Chester, near Phoenixville, Mar- 

 tindale ; Sullivan, on the Loyalsock, C. E. Smith; Blair, iowrie; 

 Clearfield, McMinn ; Allegheny, Knipe. — Rare and local. 



73. Carex polymorpha, Muhl. 



Monroe, Pocono ; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.) ; Lancaster, Smith- 

 ville Swamp ; Clinton, McMinn. — Rare and local. 



74. Carex tetanica, Schkuhr. 



Monroe, Water Gap, Knipe ; Northampton, Easton ; Bucks, 




76 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



(Moyer's Cat.) ; Lancaster ; Franklin. 



75. Carex tetanica, Schkuhr, var. Canbyi. ( C. panicea, L., var. Canbyi, 

 Olney, Exsicc. fasc. ii, nos. 24 and 25.) 



Taller, erect and more robust than the type. The fertile spikes 

 and perigynia larger. In the last edition of Gray's Manual, it is 

 placed under C. panicea, L., but Mr Bailey makes it identical with 

 C. Meadii, Dew., from which it differs in its blunt scales and habit 

 of gro^^'th. 



76. Carex tetanica, Schkuhr, i;a?'. Carteri. 



Lancaster, New Texas, J! J! Carter, June, 1862.— Glabrous, 15 

 to 20 inches high ; staminate spikes on shorter stalks ; pistillate 

 spikes 2 to 3, oblong, erect, all staminate at the apex ; lower bract 

 equalling the culm ; perigynia ovoid, obtuse, straight or straightly 

 curved above, not pointed, twice the length of the blunt scales. — 

 Named for the discoverer. 



77. Carex Meadii, Dewey. 



Bucks, Dr. I. S. Moyer. — Very rare. It exactly accords with 

 Western specimens received from Dr. Mead and Mr. Bebb. 



78. Carex Crawei, Dewey. 



Clinton, McMinn. — The only station known. 



79. Carex aurea, Nutt., var. androgyna, Olney. 



Erie, Presque Isle, Garher. — The only station known. 



80. Carex eburnea, Boott. 



Northampton, near Easton. — On shaded limestone rocks ; in 

 dense mats, and abundant. The only station known. 



81. Carex pedunculata, Muhl. 



Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.) ; Berks, Dr. J. P. Hiester ; Lancaster ; 

 Franklin; Sullivan, C. E. Smith; Jefferson, l/eifwrn ; Erie, 

 Presque Isle, GuUenherg. — Bare. 



82. Carex Pennsylvanica, Lamarck. 



Northampton ; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.) ; Chester, (F1. Cestr.) ; 

 Lancaster ; Clearfield, Sandy Ridge, McMinn. — Far less com- 

 mon than the next species. — In the specimens of Mr. Mc Minn, the 

 leaves are from 2 J to 3 lines wide, and the scales and perigynia deep 

 chestnut-brown. 



83. Carex varia, Muhl. 



Monroe ; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.) ; Berks, Diffenbaugh ; Schuyl- 

 kill; Lancaster; Franklin; Sullivan, C. E. Smith; Blair, 

 Loivrie ; Clearfield, McMinn. 



84. Carex Emmonsii, Dewey. 



Northampton; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.); Philadelphia; Lan- 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 77 



CASTER ; Allegheny, Knipe. 



86. Carex nigro-marginata, Schweinitz. 



Northampton, Seidersville, J?. G. Bechdolt: Bucks, ,A A. and 

 H. F. Ruth. — Rare and local. 



86. Carex umbellata, Schkuhr. 



Northampton ; Bucks ; Carbon, Garber ; Lycoming, A. H. 

 Smith; Philadelphia, Manayunk, C. t^. Smith; Lancaster, 

 Chickies. — On dry rocks and hillsides. Not common. 



87. Carex pubescens, Muhl. 



Northampton; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.); Delaware, Dr. G. 

 Smith ; Chester, (F1. Cestr.) ; Berks, Dr. J. P.Hiester ; Lancaster; 

 Clearfield and Elk, McMinn. 



88. Carex Willdenovii, Schkuhr. 



Northampton ; Bucks, Nockamixon Rocks ; Lancaster ; Ly- 

 coming, A. H. Smith. — Rare. 



89. Carex Steudelii, Kuntli. 



Lancaster, on the Conestoga ; Dauphin, near Harrisburg, 

 Garber; Allegheny, Knipe. — Rare. 



90. Carex polytrichoides, Muhl. 



Monroe, Water Gap, Knipe; Northampton; Chester, (FL 

 Cestr.) ; Lancaster ; Franklin ; Sullivan, C. E. Smith ; Hunt- 

 ingdon. — Common, in wet meadows. 



91. Carex chordorhiza, Ehrhart. 



Tioga, ^Nlarsh Farm, near Wellsborough, Garber, 1869. — Very 

 rare. The only station known. Its southern limit. 



92. Carex conjuncta, Boott. 



Philadelphia, on the Schuylkill, Canby. — No other station known. 



93. Carex stipata, Muhl. 



Wayne, Garber ; Northampton ; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.) ; Phil- 

 adelphia, Diffenbaugh; Chester, (F1. Cestr.); Lancaster; 

 Sullivan, C. E. Smith ; Centre, Boecking ; Huntingdon ; Alle- 

 gheny, Knipe. — One of our most common and abundant species. 



94. Carex teretiuscula, Gooden. 



Tioga and Crawford, Garber. — Rare. 



95. Carex teretiuscula, Gooden., var. ramosa, Boott. 

 Lancaster, Dillerville Swamp ; Centre, Boecking. — Rare. 



96. Carex vulpinoidea, Michx. 



Northampton , Bucks ; Lancaster ; Franklin ; Tioga, 

 Oarber; Huntingdon; Blair. — Exceedingly common and very 

 variable. 




78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



97. Carex alopecoidea, Tuckerman. 



Clearfield and Elk, McMinn, 1868. — Very rare. 



98. Carex disticha, Hudson. 



Erie, Presque Isle, Garber. — No other station known. 



99. Carex tenella, Schkuhr. 



Tioga, Garber; Elk, McMinn. — Probably not infrequent in high 

 mountain-bogs, along our northern border. 



100. Carex rosea, Schkuhr. 



Monroe, Knipe ; Northampton, Easton ; Lancaster ; Frank- 

 lin. 



101. Carex rosea, Schk., var. radiata, Dewey. 



Wayne, Garber ; Monroe, Water Gap, Knipe ; Bucks, (Moyer's 

 Cat.) ; Chester, (El. Cestr.) ; Lancaster ; Franklin ; Clear- 

 field, McMinn. — Common. 



102. Carex rosea, Schk., var. retroflexa, Torrey. 



Wayne, Garber; Northampton, Easton; Lancaster. — Rare. 



103. Carex sparganioides, Muhl. 



Northampton; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.); Philadelphia, Diffen- 

 baugh; Lancaster; Franklin; Allegheny, Knipe. 



104. Carex Muhlenbergii, Schkuhr. 



Monroe, Water Gap, Knipe; Northampton, Easton, Seiders- 

 ville, Bechdolt; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.); Chester, (F1. Cestr.); 

 Franklin; Huntingdon, Lowrie; Lycoming and Clearfield, 

 McMinn; Allegheny, Knipe. 



105. Carex Muhlenbergii, Schk., var. enervis, Boott. 

 Philadelphia, Woodland.s, Canhj. — Very rare. 



106. Carex cephalophora, Muhl. 



Monroe, Water Gap, Knipe; Northampton; Bucks; Phila- 

 delphia, Leidy ; Lancaster ; Franklin ; Clearfield and Elk, 

 McMinn. 



107. Carex cephalophora, Muhl., var. angustifolia, Boott. 

 Erie, Presque Isle, Garber. 



108. Carex echinata, Murray, (C. stellulata, Gooden.), var. conferta, 

 Bailey. 



Wayne, Garber; Schuylkill, Broad Mtn. ; Lycoming, 

 McMinn; Lancaster, New Texas, J. J. Garter. 



109. Carex echinata, Murr., var. microstachys, Boeckeler. 



Monroe, Water Gap; Knipe; Northampton; Bucks, (Moyer's 

 Cat.); Chester, (F1. Cestr.); Berks, near Reading; Lancaster. 



110. Carex canescens, L. 



Wayne, Garber; Monroe, Pocono; Schuylkill; Sullivan, 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 79 



Lake Mtn., A. H. Smith; Jefferson, McMinn. — Peat-bogs, in the 

 mountains. 



111. Carex canescens, L., var. alpicola, Wahl. 



Monroe, Poeono, Dr. Traill Gh-een; Wayne, Garber; Centre, 

 Bear meadows, Lowrie. — Rarer than the type. 



112. Carex trisperma, Dewey. 



Wayne, Garber; Monroe, Water Gap, Knipe; Schuylkill; 

 Sullivan, C. E. Smith. — Frequent and abundant in mountain-bogs. 



113. Carex bromoides, Schkuhr. 



Monroe, Tannersville, Garber; Northampton; Bucks, Moyer; 

 Chester, (F1. Cestr.); Franklin; Sullivan, A. H. Smith; 

 Huntingdon ; Jefferson, McMimi. 



114. Carex Deweyana, Schweinitz. 



Sullivan, C. E. and A. H. Smith; Erie, Presque Isle, Garber. 

 Very rare. 



115. Carex siccata, Dewey. 



Northampton, Bethlehem, Fiot. — The only .station known. 



116. Carex tribuloides, Wahl. ( C. lagopodioides. Schk.); 

 Northampton ; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.) ; Chester, (F1. Cestr.) ; 



Lancaster; Tioga, Garber; Huntingdon; Blair, Lowi-ie. — 

 Common. 



117. Carex tribuloides, Wahl., var. cristata, Bailey. 

 Northampton; Lancaster; Lycoming, McMinn; Huntingdon. 



Scarcer than the type. 



118. Carex scoparia, Schkuhr. 



Monroe, Poeono; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.) ; Lancaster; Blair, 

 Boecking; Allegheny, Knipe. — Very common. 



119. Carex adusta, Boott. 



Monroe, Poeono; Lackawanna, Carbondale, Garber; North- 

 ampton, Ea.ston; Bucks, Moyer; Venango, East Sandy Creek, 

 Garber. — Rare. 



120. Carex straminea, Schkuhr. 



Northampton; Bucks, (Moyer's Cat.) ; Chester, (F1. Cestr.)]; 

 Lancaster; Franklin; Blair; Clearfield, McMinn. — Very 

 variable. 



121. Carex straminea, Schk., var. aperta, Boott. 

 Lycoming, A. H. Smith; Elk, iT/cM/m.— Rare. 



122. Carex alata, Torrey. 



Monroe, Poeono Sununit, on the D. and L. R. R.— Not known 

 elsewhere. 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Two more species have been assigned to our flora, but they lack 

 confirmation. 



Mr. Bailey, in his Synopsis, makes the range of C. gynocrates ex- 

 tend into Pennsylvania, without mention of any station or collector. 

 It may be looked for in the northern tier of counties along the N. 

 York line. 



Muhlenberg, in his Descriptio uberior Grammum etc., p. 265. 

 under C. lagopus f, which is G. Fraseri, Andrews, adds these words, 

 "Habitat in Tyger- Valley Pennsylvaniae, tmde siccam habeo et vivam." 

 Kin, the German gardener who collected in S. W. Pennsylvania, 

 brought it home and his label reads thus, " Deigher Walli in der 

 Wilternus." Dr. Gray has shrewdly conjectured that by "Deigher 

 Walli," or Tyger Valley, is meant Tygart's Valley, which lies fur- 

 ther south, in Virginia. When the late Dr. Garber visited Fayette 

 and Greene counties, in the service of the College, he made, by my 

 direction, particular inquiry after a valley of that name, but no one 

 had heard of it Yet he discovered there, on our side of Mason 

 and Dixon's line, Aristolochia Sipho, and, a little further north, in 

 the same range, occurs Pyrularia oleifera, so that it is not at all un- 

 likely, that, some day, this rare and most singular Carex will be found 

 lurking in one of the lateral valleys or ravines along the western 

 slope of Chestnut Hill.* 



The list above given comprises 98 species and 24 varietieg,-a goodly 

 number, which may be increased somewhat. The sending to him of 

 any new or rare species, or specimens of those more common, from 

 the counties not thoroughly explored, will be accounted by the au- 

 thor as a special favor, and duly acknowledged. 



The following European species have been collected by Mr. Isaac 

 Burk on the ballast-grounds at Philadelphia — C. DavalUana, Lam., 

 C. distans, L ; C. hirta, L. and C. ornithopoda, With. 



Easton, Penna., March 4th., 1887. 



* A box containing the Carices of Muhlenberg has just been discovered in the 

 Herbarium of the Academy, Philadelphia, and the label attached to the specimens 

 of Kin's collection places Tyger Valley "/>rope amnem JCenakway.^' 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 81 



MARCH 29. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Twenty-seven persons present. 



The death of Pierre Munzinger, a member was announced. 

 The following were elected members : — 



William P. Wilson, Richard B. Westbrook, Albert W. Vail, 

 George 0. Praetorius and William Blasius. 

 Prof W. K. Brooks of Baltimore was elected a correspondent. 

 The following was ordered to be printed : — 




82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



THE SUMMIT PLATES IN BLASTOIDS, CRINOIDS, AND CYSTIDS, AND 

 THEIR MORPHOLOGICAL RELATIONS. 



BY CHARLES WACHSMUTH AND FRANK SPRINGER. 



Messrs. Robert Etheridge Jun. and Dr. P. Herbert Carpenter, 

 have recently published, under the auspices of the Trustees of the 

 British Museum, a most important and valuable contribution to 

 palaeontological research, in the form of a memoir, which is in 

 effect a Monograph of the British Blastoids* The work is marked 

 by a thoroughness and wealth of illustration, characteristic of the 

 scientific publications on special subjects issued under the patronage 

 of the British Goverment, which makes us wish that the facilities 

 offered by our own government in that direction might be a little 

 more extensive. The high reputation of the authors is such an 

 ample guarantee of scientific excellence in the execution of the 

 work, that it is scarcely necessary to do more than allude to the 

 fact of its appearence. The points as to which we should venture 

 to differ with the authors are but few; upon these, however, we 

 regret we find ourselves materially at variance with their views. 



The whole of chapter IV, from p. 66 to 74 inclusive, is devoted 

 to a discussion of the summit plates and their morphological 

 relations. The authors undertake to prove that while the summit 

 plates in the Blastoids do not present, as a rule, any very definite 

 arrangement (p. 118), yet they exhibit a series of variations in 

 number and position, in some degree corresponding with a similar 

 but more extensive series of variations among the Palaeocrinoidea ; 

 that both exhibit a transition from five closely united plates fully 

 covering the summit, to a set of six proximal plates surrounding a 

 central one. The six proximal plates are held by them to be the 

 homologues of the five oral plates of the Neocrinoidea — a theory to 

 which the division of the proximals into six or more has always 

 interposed a very serious difficulty. If such a transition from five 

 closely fitted plates to six or more around another could be 

 established, of course its tendency would be to diminish the diffi- 



*Catalogue of the Blastoidea in the Geological Department of the British 

 Museum (Natural History), with an Account of the Morphology and Systematic 

 Position of the Group, and a Revision of the Genera and Species, By Robert 

 Etheridge Jun. and P. Herbert Carpenter, D. Sc, F. R. S., P. L. S.-4 to.-Pp. I- 

 XVI, 1-322; 20 plates. London. Printed by order of the Trustees, 1886. 




PROG. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILADA, 1887. 



PL. IV. 



WACHSMUTH & SPRINGER, SUMMIT PLATES OF BLASTOIDS ETC. 





1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 83 



culty; but it remains to be seen how far the authors have succeeded 

 in proving it. 



A covering of the summit openings in various genera has been 

 described by several writers. This has been generally considered 

 as representing the same structure in all these genera ; whereas there 

 is to be found among the coverings, thus described, two distinct 

 structures, which are totally different from each other, and are 

 characteristic, so far as observed, of distinct groups of the Blastoidea. 



The first of these of which any detailed account has been 

 attempted, was observed by Eoemer in 1851, in Elaeacrinus 

 Verneuili,^ which he described as having the summit plates closed 

 by a hexagonal central plate, surrounded by six others, four of 

 equal size and two smaller. Shortly afterwards Shumard,^ in 

 describing his new species Pentremltes Sayi, stated that "the central 

 opening is closed by minute, usually pentagonal and hexagonal 

 plates, arranged in a manner somewhat similar to those of Pentremites 

 (Elaeacrinus) Verneuili," and he added in a note: — "the same 

 structure occurs in Pentremites Nortooodi and P. melo Owen and 

 Shumard, of which I have fully satisfied myself from an attentive 

 examination of many specimens." 



In 1863, Dr. White, in a paper on the summit structure of 

 Pentremites, ^ confirmed the observations of Shumard as to Pentremites 

 Norwoodi, and stated that in this species the whole central space 

 between the summit tubes and the anal aperture "is overlaid with 

 an integument of microscopic plates, entirely covering the central 

 aperture, passing out between the bases of the tubes in a double 

 series of plates, and was evidently continued far down the central 

 grooves of the pseudambulacral fields." He also discovered in 

 P. stelliformis ^ a covering of the central summit aperture "essentially 

 the same as in P. Norwoodii," and he described it jxs consisting of 

 "five small plates, arranged like a five pointed star, with the points 

 touching each of the upper ends of the interradial plates, thus 

 completely covering the summit aperture." 



Figures of the summit plates of Granatocrinus Norwoodi and 

 Orophocrinus ( Codonites) stelliformis were subsequently published by 

 Meek and Worthen, * confirming the observations of Shumard and 



*Archiv f. Naturgesch., 1851- Jahrg. XVII, p. 378. 



^ Palaeontology, in Swallow's Geol. Surv. Mo. 1855, p. 186. 



- Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist. 1863, Vol. VII, No. 4, p. 484. 



=* Ibid. p. 487. 



* Illinois Geol. Rep., Vol. V. PI. IV, figs. 2a, 5. 




84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



White; and we ^ in 1881 gave a figure of the summit covering in 

 Schizoblastus ( Granatocriinis) Sayi. 



In 1858, Shumard ® described what he took to be a somewhat 

 similar covering in a specimen of Pentremites conoideus, which he 

 figured and described as having the central stelliform space (mouth) 

 "perfectly closed by six small, microscopic plates, a central one of 

 a pentangular form surrounded by five smaller pentagonal pieces, 

 which unite with the edges of the aperture and form a little dome. 

 The five ovarial openings are each, in like manner, closed, as 

 represented in the figure by six minute polygonal plates, so arranged 

 as to form a little elevation." Shumard's description of P. conoideus 

 was endorsed by Billings^ who copied his figure, but modified it by 

 adding a small pore at each of the five angles, through which, as he 

 thought, the ambulacra entered the interior. 



The fact of the closure of the summit opening in the above 

 mentioned species, and in Pentremites generally, has on the other 

 hand been denied by Dr. Hambach,'' who states that the central 

 opening "was never closed by additional plates, as intimated by 

 some authors (Billings and Shumard), although siJecimens are 

 frequently found (and I have some in my collection) where it 

 appears as if the summit were closed by additional plates, which, on 

 close examination, however, prove to be Bryozoa or ovulum-like 

 bodies." In a subsequent paper he ^ says that Shumard's original 

 specimen of P. Sayi, which was figured in the Missouri Report, 

 "proves to have only a covering of minute calc-spar crystals on the 

 summit, leavings of the surrounding matrix, which could easily be 

 removed by applying a moist camel's hair brush to them ;" and he 

 adds — "my specimens which show such a covering * * * prove that 

 the covering consists only of fragments of broken up pinnulae which 

 were washed into the ambulacral furrows and remained there." 



As to Hambach's general statement that the central opening was 

 never closed by additional plates, he has undoubtedly been misled 

 by the condition of his specimens. We are certain that if he were 

 to examine the numerous specimens in our collection of Schizoblastus 

 Sayi, Granatocrinus Norivoodi, G. melo, Orophocrimis stelliformis, 



5 Revision of the Palaeocrinoidea Pt. II, PI. XIX, fig. 3. 



6 Trans. St. Louis, Acad. Sci. 1858, Vol, I No. 2, p. 243. 



1 Amer. Journ. Sci. 1869, Vol. XLVIII, p. 82. 



2 Trans. St. Louis, Acad, Sci., 1880, Vol. IV, p. 150. 



3 Trans. St. Louis, Acad., Sci., 1884, Vol. IV No. 3, p. 540. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIKNCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 85 



0. conieus, 0. fusiformis, an undescribed Mesohlastus from New 

 Mexico — to say nothing of Elaeacriiius from various localities, and 

 of three different species — all having the central opening per- 

 fectly closed by plates, he would come to a different conclusion. 

 We have found Schizoblashis Sayi in especially good preservation, 

 with summit plates firmly attached and unincumbered by deposition 

 of fragments of any kind. It is by no means rare to find specimens 

 of this sj^ecies, in which the summit plates and portions of the cov- 

 ering pieces are in place. They may be seen in several collections 

 in Burlington, and these parts may be vigorously brushed vnih the 

 stiffest bristles with entire safety. The same may be said of all the 

 above named species, and there can be no sort of question that a 

 plated covering does actually exist in all of them. 



With regard to the type specimen of Pentremites conoideus, how- 

 ever, we are fully convinced that Hambach is right, and that his 

 definition of the so called plates described and figured by Shumard 

 as covering the center and ovarial openings, as "ovulum-like bodies," 

 for which he was somewhat sharply ridiculed by Dr Carpenter ^ is a 

 perfectly correct statement. The species occurs abundantly at 

 Spurgen Hill, Ind. in a friable, light-colored oolitic limestone, Avhich 

 is composed almost entirely of minute organisms, small bivalves, 

 Gasteropods, etc., and these are intersi:)ersed profusely with small 

 egg-shaped bodies of almost uniform size. Nearly every specimen 

 of Pentremites from that locality has some of these bodies exposed 

 at the openings, but we find nowhere any regularity in their arrange- 

 ment, and they are seen equally plain in much worn and weathered 

 specimens. 



Prompted by a strong desire to examine Shumard's type, the speci- 

 men from which his figure was made, we applied to Dr. Hambach 

 for the loan of it from the Museum of the AVashington University 

 at St. Louis, and he forwarded it to us with a promptitude and court- 

 esy, for which he has our warmest thanks. The specimen is very 

 interesting, and shows clearly that Shumard's figure is a fiction 

 The center appears to be closed, and also the spiracles, not by plates, 

 but by foreign particles such as we have described above. The 

 specimen has the appearance of considerable weathering ; none of 

 the outlines are sharp, and the spiracles, which in good specimens 

 are markedly angular, are here almost round. In one of the spira- 

 cles only, the arrangement of the particles appears somewhat like 



Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., Ser. 5, Vol. VIII., 1881, p. 422. 




86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Shumard's figure. At a hasty glance there seem to be six pieces, a 

 central one surrounded by five others ; but when examined under a 

 strong magnifier there appear two pieces in the center, and six sur- 

 rounding them. From this one spiracle, the arrangement of the 

 supposed plates in all the other openings was probably inferred, and 

 the figure made accordingly; for the arrangement of the so- 

 called plates at the four other openings is altogether different, and 

 very irregular. So we find at the anal opening a good sized Gaster- 

 opod beside other pieces. 



The central opening is covered by a single, comparatively large, 

 elongate body, ovoid in form, which does not actually close the open- 

 ing, but rests inside of it, beneath the level of the deltoids, slightly 

 touching them. Its position is such that if it represented the sum- 

 mit structure, the food grooves could not have entered the peristome 

 This is also one of those foreign bodies to which we alluded, but its 

 surface is too much worn to say much about it. 



Etheridge and Carpenter ' express some doubt of the correctness 

 of Shumard's description as to the plates covering the spiracles, 

 although they take Hambach to task (pp. 68, 164) for disputing 

 the same description as to the covering of the central opening. 

 They allude, however, to White's discovery of a j^lated integument 

 over the anal opening in Orophocrinus stelliformis, which we are 

 able to confirm. This covering we have found well preserved, not 

 only in 0. stelliformis, but also in two new species which we de- 

 scribed for Vol. VIII. of the Illinois Report now in prepara- 

 tion. In all cases where we found this structure intact, it lies below 

 the level of the deltoid through which the aperture penetrates, and 

 is composed of a large number of small, irregular pieces without any 

 visible opening. 



We do not mean to say that the peristome and spiracles were not 

 covered by plates in P. conoideus, but we do assert that there was 

 no such covering as figured by Shumard. Even in the shape of the 

 spiracles his figure is totally erroneous. He represents them as very 

 regularly pentangular, so as to receive the five sup2:)osed plates neatly 

 filling the angles, and as surrounding a central one, one of their sides 

 facing the central opening instead of an angle. The fact is, however, 

 the spiracles are not pentangular but quadrangular, somewhat un- 

 equally diamond-shaped with sides slightly curving, the outer angle 

 obtuse, conforming to, and in fact formed by, the slojie of the side 



1 Catalogue of the Blastoidea, p. 69 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 87 



pieces of adjacent ambulacra. The opposite angle toward the centre is 

 acute, and is occupied by a shallow groove which projects in form of a 

 lip toward the center. This form of the opening is remarkably con- 

 stant in all the sj^ecimens of this species, and is characteristic not 

 only of the genus Pentremites but also of Pentremitidea. That in 

 Pentremites a considerable portion of the spiracles was closed by 

 plates of some kind, we think quite probable, but the structure was 

 certainly very different from that described by 8humard. 



In 1850, Owen and Shumard ^ discovered a peculiar summit struct- 

 ure in Pentremites in a specimen of P. Godoiii, which they described 

 as a "conical covering of small plates." In 1858 Shumard^ ob- 

 served a similar structure in P. suleatus, of which he gave the fol- 

 lowing account. "In this fossil there rises from the center of the 

 summit a little pyramid with five salient and five retreating angles, 

 the salient angles being directly opposite the extremities of the inter- 

 radial pieces, while the retreating angles correspond to the center 

 of the pseudo-ambulacral fields. The base of this little pyramid 

 is joined to the superior edges of the pseudo-ambulacral fields 

 so as to completely roof in the buccal and ovarial apertures. It con- 

 sists of about fifty pieces, arranged in ten series ; the first or exterior 

 ones in each series being of a triangular form, the others elongated 

 quadrilateral. Two series of pieces stand over each ovarial ajjerture, 

 those of one side uniting with their fellows of the opposite side at 

 the salient angles of the pyramid." 



No further attention was paid to this structure until 1884, wdien 

 Hambach ^ proposed to amend Shumard's description by adding 

 that this cone-shaj^ed body "consists of little tubes running parallel 

 with each other and roofing in the summit of the calyx in a con- 

 ical shape (but not the central opening.) They protude through 

 the same apertures in which the hydrospires terminate ; there are 

 about five of these tubes to each aperture, which seem to correspond 

 with the plicas of the hydrospiric sac." He concludes that these 

 tubes extend down into the interior of the calyx, and he takes them 

 "to be the ovarian tubes." 



We can confirm Haml)ach's observation as to the existence of 

 elongate pieces having the external appearance of tubes placed side 

 by side, though we do not concur in his inference of a connection 



1 Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., Vol. II. Pt. I, p. 65 



2 Trans. St. Louis Acad. Sci., Vol. I, No. 2, p. 244. 



1 Trans. St. Louis Acad. Sci. 1884, Vol. II, No. 3, p. 541 




88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



with his so-called "ovarian tubes," for we have beeu unable to find 

 any evidence that they pass into the calyx, or that they are longi- 

 tudinally perforate. 



We have been so fortunate as to obtain a large series of specimens 

 exhibiting the structure under consideration in more or less perfec- 

 tion in several species, and we are thereby enabled to present a 

 somewhat fuller description of its nature. We have observed it 

 in P. sulcatus in 2 specimens ; F. Godoni in 2 specimens ; P.pyriformis 

 in 4 specimens ; P. elegans in 19 specimens ; P. cervinus in 3 speci- 

 mens ; and P. abbreviatus in 5 specimens, in all conditions of preserv- 

 ation. 



It consists in most of them often series of pieces — that is five double 

 series, going out in salient angles toward the extremities of the inter- 

 radial pieces (deltoids) — while in other species the series seem to be 

 composed of more than two rows, and they are not so regularly ar- 

 ranged as in species with only two series. The pieces are located 

 at both sides of, and apparently within, the so called spiracles. 

 They are, as clearly shown in perfect specimens, not plates but elon- 

 gate, tapering spines, closely packed together, comparatively robust, 

 with a more or less obtusely quadrangular and sometimes, perhaps 

 triangular section, usually curving a little at the tips toward the 

 center. They vary in length, the outer ones being the shortest, 

 those toward the center the longest. We have been unable to dis- 

 cover anything like transverse sutures or longitudinal perforations, 

 and they probably consist of a single solid piece. Although limited 

 to the spiracles, their tips are generally drawn together so as to form 

 a kind of roof over the central opening, while if standing erect they 

 would leave a space in the middle. The spines apparently have no con- 

 nection whatever with the ambulacra ; the side pieces run out and dis- 

 appear at the spiracles, forming in fact their outer border, and only 

 the food grooves pass in between them to the peristome. Whether 

 the spines cover the spiracles directly, or rest upon independent 

 plates, we cannot say positively, but we are inclined to think that 

 the latter may be the case, and the plates bearing them are set in 

 around the inner margin of the spiracles, so as to cover the greater 

 part of the opening, leaving perhaps a shallow channel passing 

 toward the center over the lip which we have described above. 



That the spines, or plates bearing them, extended only over a 

 part of the so-called spiracles, is strongly indicated by the condition 

 of a very interesting specimen of the type of Pentremites symmetricus 

 Hall, from Chester, III, in which it seems as if the whole pyra- 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 89 



mid and the covering pieces along the ambulacra, at least near the 

 mouth, were intact and in place when the animal was deposited. 

 It is enveloped in a fine grained silicious mud, fine enough to pass 

 through the smallest opening, and to leave a cast of all cavities. 

 In this specimen there appears over the actinal center a small round- 

 ed knob, from which pass out radially, along the upper part of the 

 food grooves, delicate string-like impressions of the inner part of the 

 closed groove. From the inner angles of the spiracles, and passing 

 over the lip-like projections at those angles, are small elevated 

 rounded ridges connecting with the central knob, while the other 

 portion of the spiracle is depressed sufficiently to receive a good sized 

 set of plates. Considering that the parts composed of this fine mud 

 are the counterparts of open spaces as they existed when the speci- 

 men was imbedded — all plates and spines being removed by disinte- 

 gration after it weathered out of the matrix — we may infer that there 

 was at the inner angle of the so-called spiracle a small channel or 

 opening, which probably served as the true spiracle, while the re- 

 mainder of the aperture — which in this view of the case would repre- 

 sent a mere break in the test — was all covered. At the posterior 

 opening the mud mould occupies a larger space, indicating a larger 

 opening ; otherwise we are not able from our specimens to give any 

 special account of the anal opening ; neither can we observe any 

 special diflference in the arrangement of the spines about the pos- 

 terior ojiening from that of the others. 



The shape and construction of the spiracles in Pentremitidea is 

 very similar to tiiat of Pentremites, and we should not be surprised 

 to find its summit surmounted by a similar structure. We fully 

 agree ^nth Etheridge and Carpenter in jjlaciug these two genera in 

 the same family, but we are not so sure as to Mesohladus, which we 

 think might be placed more appropriately with Schizohlantus and 

 Cryptohladus. 



The condition of the central opening in Pentremites jannot be 

 accurately determined from any of our specimens, but we have 

 distinctly seen that it is covered by several plates, independent of the 

 roofing by spines. 



The food grooves, which pass out between the spines at the re- 

 treating angles of the cone, are vaulted over by two rows of cover- 

 ing pieces which are alternately arranged. These pieces close the 

 central groove of the ambulacrum, whence they branch off so as to 

 cover also the lateral grooves toward the pinnules. The plates cov- 

 7 




90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1887. 



eriug the side grooves, which are arranged as regidarly as those of 

 the main grooves, have been traced by us as far as the fifth side 

 pieces, but may have extended farther down, ui spite of their 

 small size, the plates are very distinct in our specimens, those of the . 

 upper row resting closely against tlie spines. 



Messrs. Etheridge and Carpenter have given two figures showing 

 the summit of Pentremites in two different conditions of preservation, 

 both of them from specimens belonging to us. The first figure of P. 

 sulcatus, (PI. I, fig. 8.), gives a somewhat incorrect impression of the 

 external apj^earance of the pyramid, owing to. the fact that the 

 spines composing it have been irregularly broken off" a little way 

 above their bases, so that what there appear as plates are really the 

 cross sections of the spines. The fracture, however, is not regular, 

 nor at right angles to the long dimension of the spines, so that the 

 figure does not correctly I'epresent either the real form of the cross 

 sections, or their relative positions. We may observe also that the 

 figure does not give the central portions. By applying a little ani- 

 line coloring matter we have been able to see the sutures indicating 

 the broken ends of spines, but the fracture is so irregular that the 

 arrangement cannot be distinguishad. In their other figure on PI, 

 V, fig, 28., which gives a good idea of the form and character of 

 the spines composing the pyramid, some of the pinnules are pre- 

 served overlapping the spines and resting upon them, showing in 

 marked contrast the difference between the two structures. 



After quoting and commenting upon Shumard's and Hambacli's 



.descriptions of the pyramid in P. sulcatus, and hfwing before them 



the original specimens represented in the above mentioned figures, 



Etheridge and Carpenter ^ give their intrepretation of the facts as 



follows : 



" Mr. Wachsmuth has sent us a fine specimen, which may per- 

 haps throw some light on this difficult question, (PI, I, fig. 8.) The 

 peristome and spiracles are almost completely covered by what seems 

 to be the base of the little pyramid described by Shumard." The 

 upper part of the pyramid described by Shumard and Hambach 

 "seems to us to be constructed by the proximal pinnules, as in the 

 specimen represented on PI. V, fig. 28. In Mr. Wachsmuth's ex- 

 ample of P. sulcatus, however, these proximal pinnules are not pre- 

 served, and the angles of the pyramid extend outwards towards the 

 pointed ends of the visible parts of the deltoids. At two of these 

 angles there seem to be indications of a double series of plates above 



1 Catalogue of the Blastoidea, p, 70. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 91 



the spiracles." They "have little doubt that this is fundamentally 

 the same structure as was seen by both Shumard and Hambach." 

 According to the latter author, there are "about five" of the sup- 

 posed tubes to each spiracle ; while Shumard says that two series of 

 pieces stand over each opening, and except in the anal interradius 

 this seems to be the condition of Mr. Wachsmuth's specimen also. 

 But we do not think that the pieces have the tubular nature Avhich 

 Hambach assigns to them ; for we doubt whether they are more 

 than the proximal pinnules grouped around the peristome as shown 

 in our PI. V, fig. 28." 



In their explanation of the plate, this figure is said to be a "ra- 

 dial view of a decorticated specimen, with the pinnules rising above 

 into a kind of dome." No allusion is made to any difference be- 

 tween the bundles of jointed pinnules which fall over the summit 

 from each side, and the set of apparently rigid, ei-ect and jointless 

 appendages which are seen between them. Nor do the authors any- 

 where in the text appear to recognize any such difierence, although 

 it is to us quite apparent, both in the figure and in the specimen 

 which was before them. 



After arriving at this as a probable interpretation of the struct- 

 ures observed by Shumard and Hambach and figured by themselves, 

 and dissenting from Hambach's supposition, that the so-called tubes 

 pass down into the interior of the calyx, they arrive at this further 

 conclusion : "We are much more inclined to think that we have 

 here to deal with an extension of the smaller system of summit 

 plates, which occur in other Blastoids. In Granatocrinus and Elae- 

 aerinus only the peristome appears to be covered, (PI. VII, figs, 4. 

 11. 13 ; PI. XVIII, fig. 16), except perhaps for the anal aperture in 

 G. Norwoodi; while OropJiocr I nus and Stephanoa-inus hay e a group 

 of plates around the anal aperture (PL XIX, fig. 9). In Pentre- 

 mites conoideus the other four spiracles are perhaps also closed by 

 plates ; and except in the larger size and abundance of the plates it 

 is no great advance from this condition to that Avhich we have seen 

 in Pentremites sulcatm (PI. I, fig. 8.), but we await further informa- 

 tion." 



The supposed closure of the spiracles by plates in Pentremites 

 conoideus proves to be unsupported by the facts. A correct under- 

 standing of the nature of the pyramid surmounting the vault in 

 Pentremites sulcatus and allied species will, Ave think, fully demon- 

 strate that this structure, which probably existed in all Pentremites, 

 is a totally different thing from the covering of the anus in Oropho- 




92 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1887. 



crinus, Stephanoarinus or Granatocrinus. In the three latter types, 

 the so-called covering does not extend to the spiracles, but consists 

 apparently of a sort of moveable plates, by means of which in va- 

 rious ways the anal aperture could temporarily be opened or closed 

 as its functions required. 



The vieAvs expressed by Etheridge and Carpenter that these spine- 

 like pieces forming the pyramid are nothing but the proximal pin- 

 nules, cannot, in our opinion, be sustained by any of the evidence. 

 There are very serious objections to it : — 



1. They consist of a single piece throughout their entire length, 

 whereas pinnules are composed of small joints. The specimens all 

 show this distinction well, and it may be clearly seen in Eth- 

 eridge and Carpenter's PL V, fig. 28. 



2. They have no ventral groove, and tajier to a point ; while 

 pinnules are nearly uniform throughout, and especially do not 

 taper perceptibly from their bases. 



3. They are more robust than the pinnules in the same specimen, 

 and shorter — the pinnules passing beyond their tips. 



4. The best preserved specimens show that the pinnule sockets end 

 at the spiracles where the two rows of adjoining ambulacra come to- 

 gether in a point. The spines, however, seem to begin where the 

 pinnules end, and extend from there inward, the clusters widening 

 toward the center so as to form the retreating angles at the base 

 of the pyramid. 



5. The spines are interradial and interambulacral, and as such 

 may belong to an interambulacral system, which perhaps is unre- 

 presented in other groups of the Blastoids, but certainly form no 

 part of the ambulacral system. 



Whatever the spines in Pentremites may be, or represent mor- 

 phologically, we think it Avill have to be conceded that they are not 

 "proximal pinnules," and not comjmrable to the plates covering the 

 anus of Orophocrmus, Stephanocrinus^v Granatocrinus. 



On page 73, Messrs. Etheridge and Carpenter attempt to establish 

 a series of variations in the summit j^lates of the Blastoids, "similar 

 to that which can be traced among the Palaeocrinoids. The sim- 

 plest form of summit which occurs in any Blastoid is that presented 

 by Stephanocrinus. The peristome is completely closed by the five 

 triangular plates of the so-called proboscis." They state that Hall, 

 in his diagram of the structure of the summit in Elaeacrinus elegans^ 



1 ]5th. Rep. N. Y. St. Cab. Nat. Hist. 1862, p. 153. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHTA. 93 



figures only five plates of equal size ; and they add : — " These five 

 plates of Stepha7iocrinus and Elaeacrinus have exactly the same re- 

 lation to the peristome and ambulacra as the oral plates of a Neocri- 

 noid, and we do not see how their mutual homology can well be dis- 

 puted." On page 74 they continue : "The difference between 

 Elaeacrinus elegans ov Stephanocrinus and E. Verneuili, as described 

 by Roemer, is veiy much the same as that between Culicoerdnus 

 and the simplest form of Platijerimis. Stephanocrinus, like Culico- 

 cHnus, has but five plates in the vault ; while in E. Verneuili there 

 are at least seven, viz. : one orocentral, four proximals of equal size, 

 and two smaller ones on the anal side." They allude to White's 

 description of the summit of Orophocrimis stelliformis as consisting 

 of five small plates etc., which they say is ''just as in Stephanocrinu^s 

 and in Elaeacrinus elegans" — though they add that their arrange- 

 ment does not seem to be very constant. On page 75, they speak 

 of the summit of Granatocrinus Norwoodi varying in a similar man- 

 ner, and of a "somewhat less regular arrangement" in Schizohlastus 

 JSayi. 



It thus appears that their conclusion that the plates of the vault 

 in Blastoids "rarely exhibit any definite arrangement, "(p. 118) and 

 that there is a series of variations in the summit plates of the Blas- 

 toids similar to, and to some extent parallel with, those which they 

 assume to exist in Palaeocrinoids, is based on the presence of five 

 plates in Stephanocrinus ; the assumj^tion of five plates in Elaeacrinus 

 elegans and Orophocrimis stelliformis, in contrast with seven j^lates 

 in E, Verneuili; and variability in the number and arrangement 

 of plates in the summit of (rranatocrinus Noriooodi and Schizohlastus 

 JSayi. 



It is somewhat unfortunate for the validity of this speculation 

 that Stephanocrinus cuts so important a figure in it, as it has since 

 been discovered to be not a Blastoid at all, but a brachiate Crinoid ; 

 a fact,' it is proper to say, which is noticed by the authors in 

 their preface. This genus, therefore, must be eliminated from among 

 the premises on which the argument is built, and the "simplest 

 form" must be looked for elsewhere. Let us see how far the others 

 will stand the test of examination. 



Elaeacrinus elegans was described by Hall ^ under Nucleocrinus, 

 and in his specific description, — and not simply in his generic diag- 



1 Revision of the Palaeocrinoidea, Pt. Ill, p. 28"2, etc. 



2 1.5tli, Rep. N. Y. St. Cah. Xat. Hist. 1862 .p. 147. 




94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



nosis, as stated by Etheridge aud Carpenter — lie says the summit is 

 "occupied by five or more small plates." In the diagram, on page 

 153 of the work cited, the summit is represented as divided into five 

 equal and similar areas by the meeting of lines prolonged from the 

 middle of the ambulacra. It is apparent that no attempt was made 

 to give the exact form or number of those plates. They are not let- 

 tered as the other plates are, and no mention is made of them in the 

 explanation of the figure ; nor does Hall anywhere seem to have at- 

 tached sufficient importance to the summit plates to give a descrip- 

 tion of their shape, position, arrangement, or I'elative size. 



In order to satisfy ourselves as to Avhat the real facts are, Ave ap- 

 plied to Prof R. P. Whitfield for the loan of the type specimen of 

 £■. elegans showing the summit plates, now in the collection of the 

 American Museum of Natural History in New York City. Prof. 

 Whitfield, with his usual kindness, for which we are under renewed 

 obligations to him, promptly sent us the original specimen from 

 which fig. 14, of PI. I, as well as the diagram on page 153 of the 

 15th Report was made; and in his letter transmitting it he says: 

 "I fear you will not see clearly the arrangement of the plates. 

 There are more than five plates — probably eight". The italics are his. 

 By applying water, colored with aniline, and then moderately brush- 

 ing the surface so as to remove the coloring matter excej)t from the 

 sutures, we were enabled to distinguish the presence of a central piece 

 surrounded by seven others, — four large and uniform, and three 

 smaller ones at the posterior side (fig. 11.) This gives a summit 

 structure substantially the same as that of Elaeacrhms Verneuili, 

 (see Etheridge and Carpenter, Blast. Cat. p. 215). 



We also applied to Dr. Barris for the loan of his specimens of 

 Elaeacriniis obovatus, and these, together with our own, gave us 

 eight specimens of this species, all having the summit in situ. The 

 four large proximals are readily recognized in most of them, but 

 only a single specimen enabled us to distinguish all the plates as 

 they are shown in fig. 12. In four others, the suture line between 

 the central plate and the small anal piece is seen as plainly as we 

 could wish, but there is no trace of a suture toward the smaller 

 proximals (fig. 13); while in the three remaining ones, including the 

 largest specimen, it appears as if the summit consisted of only five 

 plates (fig. 14.) There is, however, no variation in the form and 

 general outline ot the summit in any of these specimens. The sum- 

 mit in all of them rests posteriorly between the two halves of the 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 95 



comiiound deltoid and acrain^t tlie intermediate large anal plate, 

 and in all of them the lower margin is perforated and occupied by- 

 one half of the anal aperture, thus showing that in this species also 

 the summit consists primitivel}' of eight pieces, of which the suture 

 lines became partially obliterated. 



In the type specimen of Elaeacrinus meloniformis, which Dr. 

 Barris was kind enough to send us also, the arrangement of the 

 summit plates is the same as in E. obovatns, and we clearly distin- 

 guished the small anal plate. 



It thus apjiears that in the known species of Elaeacrinus the 

 summit plates consist of a central plate surrounded by six or more 

 proximals, and that in no case do they consist of five primitive 

 plates ; so that the "simplest form of summit" — five plates only — 

 has not been found in Elaeacrimis. The assumed parallelism of 

 differences between E. elegans and E. VerneuUi among the Blastoids, 

 and Calicocrimis and the simplest form of Flatycrinus among the 

 Crinoids, encounters a very serious interruption in consequence — 

 unless, indeed, it should turn out that there is a parallelism in these 

 cases of an altogether different character from that contemplated by 

 the English authors. 



The summit of Orophocrinus stelliformis was stated by White ^ to 

 consist of "five small plates arranged like a five-pointed star, with 

 the points touching each of the upper ends of the interradial plates." 

 We do not doubt that Dr. White thought to observe such arrange- 

 ment, but we think it very probable that the condition of his speci- 

 men was such that he overlooked the central })late, which may 

 easily happen, as the sutures are often difficult to observe. In a 

 large number of specimens we have never found a single one with 

 the summit composed of five plates only, or with a central plate 

 surrounded by five proximals. We found, however, that in speci- 

 mens of this species, as well in Chranaiocrinus Norwoodi and Schizo- 

 blastus Sayi, when the covering plates are in place, they often partly 

 overlap the summit plates, and in such cases the arrangement of the 

 latter cannot be distinctly observed. When the covering pieces are ab- 

 sent, and the summit plates alone are intact, as in several of our speci- 

 mens, the arrangement is quite regular. We have made a careful ex- 

 amination of a large series of specimens, not only of 0. stelltformis but 

 also of our new species 0. fusiformis and 0. conicus, in which the sum- 

 mit plates are morg frequently preserved. In all of them there is a 



1 Boston Journ. Nat. Hist. 1863, Vol. VIII, No. 4, p. 4S7. 




96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



central plate, surrounded by others, either six or seven. Even the 

 original of Etheridge and Carpenter's figures 11 and 12 on PI. XV, 

 in our collection, upon the application of coloring matter to bring 

 out the sutures, proves to have a quite regular arrangement of the 

 summit plates, which the artist who drew the figures failed to detect. 

 There are certainly not "five small plates," but a central plate 

 surrounded by six proximals. 



According to our observation, therefore, of the best preserved 

 material known, the summit of 0. stelliformis does not represent the 

 "simplest form," — "just as in Stephanocrlmis." 



There remains only to consider Graiiatocrinus Norwoodi and 

 Schizoblastus Sayi, as to both of which we remark that there is often 

 presented much apparent irregularity and variability in the 

 arrangement of their summit plates. But we find that this is due to 

 the encroachment of the covering plates, which sometimes largely 

 overlap them, as is well shown by Ether. Carpenter's PI. VII, figs. 

 11 and 13. But in natural internal casts, in which we have the 

 impressions of the inner surfiice of the plates, they appear larger 

 and much more regularly arranged. Among a large number of 

 specimens we have failed to find a single example of a summit 

 closed by only five plates ; while in a large proportion of them we 

 distinguished clearly a central plate surrounded by six or more 

 proximals. Whatever variations, however, of form and arrangement 

 of summit plates may be found to exist in these two species, we feel 

 warranted in asserting that the "simplest form" is not one of them. 



On page 71, (Catal. of the Blastoidea), Messrs. Etheridge and 

 Carpenter say that "in 1877, Wachsmuth pointed out that a 

 definite arrangement of plates is more or less traceable in the vault 

 of many Palaeocrinoids. There is a single central plate, with five 

 or, more frequently, six others disposed interradially round it." 

 It would naturally be inferred from this remark and the context, 

 not only that five proximals around a central plate is one recognized 

 condition in the vault of many Palaeocrinoids, but also that 

 Wachsmuth had so expressed himself: — whereas the fact is he said 

 nothing of the kind in the paper cited, but on the contrary spoke 

 only of "7 apical plates" — a central, four large, and two small ones ; 

 and this number, or a greater, has been insisted on by us as being 

 the almost universal rule. 



In seeking for a transition or variation in the summit plates of 

 Palaeocrinoids, comparable to that which they assume to exist 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 97 



among the Blastoids, they take the young stage of Allac/ecrivus 

 (p. 72), as presenting "the simplest form of vault," i. e. five plates 

 without any central ; and Hajjlocriuus next, with a central piece and 

 five proximals, "neither AUagecrinus nor Haplocrinus having any 

 calyx interradials." Oulieocrinus is cited as having five large summit 

 plates resting on the calyx interradials, and without any central 

 piece. Then come Platycriuns and the Actinocrinidae as exhibiting 

 varying degrees of complexity, but having a central plate, which 

 they call an "oro-central," surrounded by proximals. In this case 

 also, they base a large part of their argument upon premises which 

 are by no means universally recognized, or are free from dispute. We 

 consider it far from being an established fact, that either AUagecrinus 

 or Haplocrinus — Culicocrinus will be considered later on — are 

 without calyx interradials. 



As we have before stated, Etheridge and Carpenter maintain, and 

 it has been steadily insisted on by Dr. Carpenter since 1879, that 

 the proximal plates, surrounding the central plate in Palaeo- 

 crinoids, their so-called "orocentral," represent the five orals 

 of Neocrinoidea. This involves the assumption of a homology 

 between a set of plates covering the actinal center, which are five 

 in all stages of the Neocrinoids in which they exist, and a set of 

 plates which, when present in Palaeoci'inoids consist of six or 

 more plates, which do not cover the actinal center, but which 

 enclose another structure that does. It is in order to get rid of some 

 of these difficulties that the authors attach so great importance to 

 the cases of AUagecrmm, Haplocrinus, Oulieocrinus, Coccocrinus, 

 and Stephanocrlnus, in which they undertake to point out a series 

 of five plates at the ventral side, as the representatives of six or more 

 proximals in Palaeocrinoids generally, and which at the same time 

 might be successfully homologized with the orals of the Neocrinoids. 

 In this connection they remark on page 73 : — 



"Since the preceding paragraph was in type, we have received 

 the latest publication oi Messrs. Wachsmuth and Springer, 

 according to whom the five plates which form the ventral pyramid 

 of Stephanocrlnus are 'calyx interradials,' and cannot therefore be 

 homologous with the orals of a Neocrinoid. In making this 

 comparison Messrs. AVachsmuth and Springer seem to have altogether 

 overlooked the fact that Stephanocrlnus lias well developed calyx 

 interradials, namely, the deltoids. * * * The American authors 

 regard the deltoid pieces of the Blastoidea, and by implication 




98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



thei'efore those of Stephanocriiius, as homologous with the large 

 calyx interradials of the Cyathocriuidae, a view in which we 

 entirely concur, as Ave have explained on p. 10. But in applying 

 this name to the five plates which form the ventral pyramid and 

 cover the mouth of Stephanocrinus, and also of Haplocrinus and 

 Allagecrinus, as they do in their latest publication, they seem to us 

 to be going very much too far. We regard the five summit plates 

 of all three genera as truly homologous with the orals of the 

 Pentacrinoid larva. They cover the mouth and the origin of the 

 ambulacra, just as the orals do in the Neocrinoid; and this relation 

 is not characteristic of the calyx interradials in any Pelmatozoon 

 whatever. It is only in the Cyathocriuidae and in the Blastoids 

 that these plates have any close relation to the mouth at all. But 

 they do not cover it and shut it off" completely from the exterior as 

 the summit plates of Stephanocrinus and AUagecrinus do." 



We have been more than once charged by Dr. Carpenter with 

 inaccurate statements as to his views, and in some cases with reason 

 as we have admitted; but we do not believe we have ever been 

 chargeable with anything so completely unfounded as the foregoing 

 criticism. It is based entirely upon the single remark of ours on 

 page 46 (Revision Palaeocr. Pt. Ill), that "the ventral pyramid in 

 Haplocrhms and Coccocrinus is composed of interradials and not of 

 orals, and the same may be said of Stejjhanocrinus."'-^ This was 

 written under the supposition, then entertained by all Palaeontolo- 

 gists, perhaps with the exception only of Etheridge and Carpenter, 

 whose interpretation will be quoted presently, that Stephanocrinus 

 was constructed of only three ranges of plates, and we considered 

 the third row, constituting the whole portion from the coronal 

 processes inward, to be interradial plates. Messrs. Etheridge and 

 Carpenter^ in 1883, interpreted all plates, in common with the 

 deltoids of the Blastoids generally, and the interradials of the 

 Cyathocriuidae, as orals, — a view which they have since abandoned. 

 In the same paper — p. 239 — they mention five plates in the summit, 

 composing, according to Hall, a central "proboscis," and say that 

 they have "only seen this proboscis in one specimen," and regai'd it 

 as "a vault of a few pieces covering in the peristome." This shows 

 clearly that they did not themselves at that time consider these 



*We even did not use the term "ca/yx interradials" in tiiat quotation, we 

 simply spoke of the "interradials." 



1 Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. Apr. 1883, pp. 225 to 246. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 99 



"proboscis" plates as representing the orals, and, so far as we know, 

 they never afterwards, until the appearance of the Blastoid Catalogue, 

 gave any other interpretation of the inner ring of plates. If they 

 had regarded them as orals, it would have suggested the presence 

 of two rings of orals, the one within the other. 



Subsequently we found reason to distinguish tAvo rings above the 

 radials — the so-called orals or deltoids of Etheridge and Carpenter 

 and a series of suinmit plates — the so-called "proboscis" — from a 

 specimen of S. ffemmiformis ; and we communicated this fact to Dr. 

 Carpenter as early as Dec. 17th 1885 with a diagram explaining it, 

 stating that, although summit plates in our specimen were not 

 preserved, such plates were probably represented in the species. We 

 also informed him that it was the third ring or deltoids, and not the 

 summit plates, which we took to be the homologues of the interra- 

 dials in Haplocrinus ; and that the hypothetical plates closing the 

 summit we took to be represented in Haplocrinus by the central 

 plate. At the same time we applied to Prof. Whitfield for specimens 

 to ascertain the summit structure in S. angulatus. From these 

 specimens we at once found beyond all doubt that the plates of the 

 third row in S. angulatus, as well as in S. gemmiformis, do not extend 

 to the oral center, but are followed by five other plates — the so- 

 called "proboscis" — covering the mouth (fig. 3). Upon making 

 this discovery we promptly declared the latter to be the orals, and 

 advised Dr. Carpenter accordingly on January 9th 1886. * 



Our statement, therefore, that the "ventral pyramid" in Stephanocri- 

 nus is composed of interradials, was made with reference to plates which 

 we then supposed to be a single element, extending to, but not 

 covering the oral center, and which Etheridge and Carpenter had 

 previously announced to be orals followed by vault pieces, but now 

 consider to be deltoids followed by orals. When the authors assert 

 that we applied the name "calyx interradials" to the "plates which 

 form the ventral pyramid and cover the mouth of Stephaiiocrimis and 

 also of Haplocrinus" we cannot helj) thinking that they are "going 

 very much too far." A similar erroneous statement was made by 

 Dr. Carpenter in March 1886 ' and it has been a matter of consid- 



*It is due to Dr. Carpenter to state here that he had privately communicated to 

 us, after Sect. I of Pt. Ill of our Revision was in print, that he regarded the inner 

 rinij of Stephatiocrimis as orals, and this led to our correspondence upon the 

 subject. 



lAnn. and Mag. Nat. Hist., March, 188H, p. 282 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



erable surprise to us that in both these publications we should be 

 held up to criticism for a statement which we did not make in any- 

 such form as their language would imply, and that the authors 

 should indulge in a general adverse comment upon our incidental 

 remark on Stephanocrinus, without the slightest intimation of the 

 very important additions to our former views consequent upon new 

 discoveries, which would have made our meaning entirely clear. 

 These were published in Part III, Revision of the Palaeocrinoidea, 

 pp. 282-290. 



To represent us as arguing that the plates which we recognize as 

 calyx interradials "cover the actinal center," or "cover the mouth 

 and the origin of the ambulacra, " seems to us very much like 

 setting up a man of straw for the pleasure of knocking him down. 

 For our whole argument in favor of a homology of the orals of the 

 Neocrinoid Avith the central plate in Palaeocrinoids, has been ex- 

 pressly put upon the ground that the latter plate covers the actinal 

 center ; and one of the strongest objections we have constantly urged 

 against such a homology with the proximals, has been that they do 

 not (Rev. Pal. Pt. Ill, p. 53). Etheridge and Carpenter add in 

 continuing their criticism above noticed : " There is not a single 

 Crinoid known in which plates Avhich are universally recognized to be 

 calyx interradials cover in the actinal center." Of course not ; and 

 we do not knoAV of anybody Avho says they do. But on the other 

 hand it is equally true that there is not a single Palaeocrinoid known 

 in which the plates that are universally recognized as orals cover 

 the whole ventral surface; and upon this ground we might well contend 

 that if the plates which Etheridge and Carpenter consider to be 

 orals are really such, then Allageerinus and Haplocrinus are Neo- 

 crinoids, in which from the larva to the adult, as a rule the whole 

 ventral surface is covered by actinal structures. Their statement 

 above cited, as to the homology of plates which "cover the mouth 

 and the origin of the ambulacra, just as the orals do in Neocrinoids," 

 might be j^rofitably applied to the case of Caryocrinus, as shown 

 by a number of excellent internal casts recently obtained from 

 Racine, Wisconsin. Caryocrinus has a large central piece, and 

 this is surrounded usually by eight plates, which are arranged in a 

 totally different manner from the so-called proximals of the Palaeo- 

 crinoidea. Three of them are radial, the others interradial, (figs. 6- 

 7). The interradial pieces alternate with the radial ones, one to 

 each side, except at the anal interradius where three smaller pieces 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



take the place of the single one at the two other sides. Like most 

 of the Cystidea, Caryocrinus has no true radials, although it has 

 well developed arms. The rays start from underneath the central 

 plate in a similar manner as they do in allied genera from under- 

 neath their quinque-partite oral pyramid; but the ambulacra, instead 

 of entering the surface at once, as in other groups, here remain sub- 

 tegminal until they enter the arms, following the medium line of 

 three radial plates, and branch (fig. 7) underneath them twice to 

 their respective arm openings. In this case, the central piece which 

 "covers the mouth and the origin of the ambulacra" must surely 

 represent the orals if any plate does, but not the plates which sur- 

 round it and cover, neither the mouth nor the origin of the ambu- 

 lacra. We should like to know by what process Messrs. Etheridge 

 and Carpenter will demonstrate the oral nature of either the radial 

 or interradial plates in this form. 



We have already alluded to the great importance toward the estab- 

 lishment of Etheridge and Carpenter's oral theory, of their proving 

 the existence both in Crinoids and Blastoids of a summit composed 

 either of five plates only, or of a central plate surrounded by five. 

 This is why the series of parallel transitions or variations in the 

 summit plates of the two groups is so strenuously urged in the 

 Blastoid Catalogue. But it seems to us that the authors have al- 

 together failed to point out a single instance in which five primary 

 plates cover the peristome among the Blastoids. The cases which 

 have been relied upon to prove such a condition, must be attributed 

 to incorrect observation or the want of sufiiciently good material. 

 That occasionally in certain species of Elaeacrinus the central jiiece 

 is more or less coalesced with the proximals of the azj'gous side, and 

 these with one another so as to obscure the suture lines, as we have 

 shown in our illustrations figs. 12 to 14, cannot alter the case in 

 the least, as they are plainly visible in others, and without any 

 change in the general arrangement of the summit. Nor does it seem 

 to us that the authors have been any more successful in showing 

 how among Palaeocrinoids the five large plates in Haplocrinus, cov- 

 ering the whole ventral surface except the oral pole, could have 

 been transformed in other groups of the Palaeocrinoidea into six 

 plates covering only a small space around the peristome. These five 

 plates in Haplocrinus occupy the same position, as the primary calyx 

 interradials of other groups, and especially resemble those of 

 Cyathocrinus and Stephanocrinus. (Compare figs. 2 to 5). 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



It may not be out of place to mention in this connection that in 

 Haplocrimis there api)ear radially between the five large ventral 

 plates, upon their lateral edges, five conspicuous grooves (figs. 4 and 

 5), which Avere regarded by Prof. Zittel (Handb. d. Palaeont, I, p. 

 347) as ambulacral furrows. Similar grooves exist in Cyathocrinus, 

 JStephanocrinus and other Inadunata along their interradials, and in 

 all of them the grooves are occupied by the ambulacra. The simi- 

 larity between these grooves, no doubt, induced Prof. Zittel to give 

 to those of Haplocr'mus the same interpretation. Unfortunately, 

 however, the central plate of Haplocrinus, as plainly seen in our 

 specimens, does not occupy exactly the same level as the upper an- 

 gles of the five large plates, but lies (Fig. 4) below their level and 

 between them, just as if it were being pushed from within outward 

 so as to separate the five plates at the central space. The peculiar 

 position of the central plate demonstrates, we think beyond any 

 ooubt, that the ambulacra of Hcqjlocrinus could not have been ex- 

 posed upon this groove, but at the same time it appears to us that 

 these grooves, which occupy relatively the same position toward 

 surrounding plates and the peristome, and are formed in a similar 

 manner, must represent moi'phologically the same grooves, which 

 a,re occupied in higher developed types of this group by the ambul- 

 acra (fig. 3). Supposing that Haplocrinus, as we find it in the 

 fossil state, were but an embryonic stage of the species — the genus 

 has been regarded a permanent larval form of the group — we think 

 we might safely assert from the phylogeny of the Palaeocrinoidea 

 generally, that in the growing animal the centi-al plate Avas pushed 

 outward so as to appear at a level with the five interradials ; that 

 subsequently by the growth of the dorsal ciip, and the widening of 

 the peristomial area, proximals appeared around the central piece; 

 and that at last the ambulacra were pushed out to the surface to 

 occupy the radial grooves, which were present already in the young 

 Haplocrinus. The different stages to which we here have alluded 

 are well represented in palaeontological times throughout the Inad- 

 unata, and not only among them, but also among the Camarata 

 under very similar conditions. 



The Camarata or Coadunata differ from the Inadunata in having 

 their proximal arm joints incorporated into the calyx by the up- 

 ward growth of interradials ; Avhile in the Inadunata the arms re- 

 main free from the first radial, and they have but one interradial 

 which is disposed ventrally. That all Camarata passed temporarily 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



in early life through the Inadunata stage, seems to us beyond dis- 

 pute, and we think we may assert that they were for a time in a similar 

 condition to Haplocrinus, with one interradial 2:)late disposed ven- 

 trally. Limiting our observations among the Camarata to the 

 Platycrinidae, Ave find, so far as we know, their simplest forms repre- 

 sented by the two early genera Cidicocrums and Coccocrinus, which both 

 have two rows of plates interradially disposed, the one resting with- 

 in the circlet of the other. In Culicocrinus,^ if Miller's figure is 

 correct, the first row of these j^lates consists of five rather large pieces, 

 one to each interradius, which connect laterally with the primary 

 and secondary arm plates, so as to mal^e them radials and integral 

 parts of the calyx. Those of the second row which are triangular 

 meet laterally and close the center, apparently av ithout any additional 

 plates. 



Of Coccoci'inus two species are known. Coccocrinus bacca has 

 thx'ee interradials in the first row, which have a strictly ventral posi- 

 tion, C. rosaceus apparently but one, which is more erect. In both 

 species the plates extend to the height of the third primary radials, 

 and probably higher. The inner row of plates is only known in C. 

 rosaceus, and these, like those of Culieocriims, are subtriangular, 

 but, unlike them, do not connect laterally w^th one another, nor do 

 they meet in the center. There is a lateral slit between them 

 all the way to the arm openings, and at the center an open space, 

 which in the fossil is not filled by any further structures. In C. bacca, 

 as stated, the inner plates have not been preserved, but we scarcely 

 doubt that similar plates were present, for we find in a radial 

 direction between the outer plates of the first row, very conspicuous 

 slits, which correspond to those of C rosaceus. 



The outer plates, in the two genera, were regarded by Carpenter 

 as calyx interradials, the inner ones as orals, and these he took to 

 be the homologues of the five large ventral plates of Haplocrinus, 

 and of the proximals in other groups. 



We admit that Coccocrinus and Culicocrinus probably are morph- 

 ologically in a similar condition, and represent early stages in the 

 phylogeny of the Palaeocrinoidea like Allagecrinus and Haplocrinus, 



*Through the kindness of Prof F. Roemer, we received a most excellent 

 gutta percha cast of a Ctdicocrintts with arms, from a mould in the Mineralogical 

 Museum of Breslau, but not showing the ventral covering. Miller's original fig- 

 ures of the ventral covering, Lethea Geognostica of 1855, Taf. VIII, figs. 1 and 

 2, we are informed are much restored, and the arrangement of the plates, as there 

 given, not altogether reliable. 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



but we doubt if this is the case in the sense Dr. Carpenter suggests. 

 The two former are Camarata, and as such should be provided with 

 more than one row of interradials, which they would not possess if 

 the inner plates were orals. 



Based upon palaeontological evidence, we think, we may rea- 

 sonably suggest that in the developmental history of Culicocrinus, 

 at the close of the Inadunata stage, the first row of interradials 

 opened out to connect the proximal arm plate with the calyx, and 

 that a second ring formed to take the place and functions of the 

 first, closed the center. 



Coccocrinus forms a connecting link between Culicocrinus and 

 Platycrinus. Probably it has one or more summit plates, and the 

 ambulacra disposed between the interradials. 



In Platycrinus, the inner interradials, which in Coccocrinus are 

 yet placed at a level with the dorsal cup, are considerably more 

 raised. In consequence thereof we find in this genus much larger 

 spaces between the interradials, centrally as well as laterally, and 

 hence better developed summit plates and larger and heavier cover- 

 ing pieces. Of the summit pieces probably the central plate 

 appeared at first — this is indicated by the phylogeny of the group — 

 and the proximals appeared later, filling the vacancies, which 

 gradually had formed around the central plate. 



In this sketch we have not added anything that is not well 

 sustained by the phylogeny of this group, or is not in accordance 

 with the developmental history of the Palaeocrinoidea generally- 

 Throughout this order, when summit plates are exposed at all, they 

 occupy a comparatively small space around the peristome, and this 

 space increases in width in palaeontological times. In all Palaeo- 

 crinoids, so far as known, and we may add, in all Blastoids, the 

 peristomial area is formed by the calyx interradials, whether these 

 consist of one piece, as in the case of the Inadunata and Blastoidea, 

 or of two, three, or a dozen pieces, as in the Camarata ; and the summit 

 plates, whether composed of a central plate only, or of proximals 

 also, rest against the upper margin of the interradials. In all Neo- 

 crinoidea, however, from the larva to the adult, the whole ventral 

 surface is covered by actinal structures , the small interradials which 

 were observed by Sir Wyville Thomson, disappear again soon after 

 their development, and never attain any such prominence in the 

 composition of the calyx as in the earlier Crinoids. This character, 

 which distinguishes the two groups so readily, would meet with most 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 105 



serious exceptions if the ventral plates in Allacjecrbius, Haplocriiius, 

 Culicocrinus and Coccocrinus, as asserted by Carpenter, represented 

 the orals. We think it was the superficial resemblance in the form 

 and position of these plates with the orals of certain Neocrinoidea 

 that led Carpenter to regard them as orals. He probably overlooked 

 the foct that the plates agree equally well on those points with the 

 interradials of the Cyathocrinidae, and that as interradials the above 

 genera would not be exceptional types, but comply with the morpho- 

 logical conditions of all their contemporaries. 



We have shown that Culicocrinus and Coccocrinus, as members 

 of the Camarata, should have more than one interradial plate, and 

 it is not very likely that the secondary one, exceptionally in those 

 genera, would be substituted by a ring of oral plates. But there is 

 another serious difficulty. The slits in C. bacca extend out to the 

 first row of ventral plates as well as to the second, and this suggests 

 that, if Coccocrinus were "like the recent genus Holopus" to be "per- 

 manently in the condition of a crinoid larva, in which the orals have 

 not yet moved away from the radials, though separated from one 

 another,"* then both rows of plates were orals, one ring within the 

 other. Where among the numerous families of the Palaeocrinoidea 

 do we find an instance in which the plates constituting either the 

 oral pyramid or the proximals, are separated in that manner? 

 Nowhere ; but if there was such a case, we certainly would find it in 

 the highest developed forms and not in the larval ones. Again, where 

 do we meet among Palaeocrinoids with an open peristome? In the 

 earliest stages of the Neocrinoid larva, the orals are closed, and in the 

 earlier forms of the Camarata, such as Reteocrinus, GlyjJtocrinus, etc., 

 the peristome is closed either by the upward gro\\iih of the calyx, or by 

 a small central piece, there being no jiroximals, and hence, accord- 

 ing to Carjienter's interpretation of these plates, no orals. Those 

 genera appear to us to be in a similar condition to Allageerinus and 

 Haplocrimis among the Inadunata, and Culicocrinus and Coccocrinus 

 among the Camarata, but not in the condition of the Neocrinoidea at 

 all. However, we can readily understand why Carpenter holds so 

 tenaciously to these plates as orals, for it is principally upon these 

 plates that he bases his further theory, that in the higher Palaeocri- 

 noidea the orals ai*e represented by the proximals ; indeed they are 

 his "simplest forms" which he failed to find among Blastoids. In 

 the Challenger Report on p. 170, he says: "The proximal dome 



* Chall. Report, p. 163. 




106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



plates rest directly against the calyx interradials, that on the poste- 

 rior side being represented by two small plates with the anus between 

 them" while there is a more or less tubercular ring of radial dome 

 plates outside them. These proximal dome plates thus correspond 

 exactly to the orals of /Si/mbathoci' inns ajd Haplocrlnus, covering in 

 the peristome and resting against the calyx plates, which in the 

 Platycrinus are the interradials, and not the upper edges of the ra- 

 dials, as in the simpler forms"; and on p. 171 : "I cannot therefore 

 see what other view can be taken of the proximal dome plates which 

 immediately surround the orocentral, than to regard them as orals, 

 i. e., as the actinal representatives of the basals, like the correspond- 

 ing plates in Symbathocrinus. If this be admitted, it follows that the 

 proximal dome plates of all Platycrinidae, Actinocrinidae and Rho- 

 docrinidae are also homologous with the orals of Neocrinoids." 



These conclusions perhaps might be well enough, if such a thing 

 as an orocentral had been established ; but unfortunately this is not 

 the case. Neither are the jjlates in Symbathocrinus of which he 

 speaks as "the orals," in our opinion, anything but proximals, and 

 hence all conclusions based thereon, to say the least of it, are inex- 

 pedient and rash. It is somewhat surprising that Dr. Carpenter, 

 although his whole theory is actually based upon his hypothetical 

 "orocentral," gives such a meagre account of it. In the Challenger 

 Report, in introducing it on p. 158, he devotes to it only a few lines. 

 Referring to the small central plate oiHaplocrinus, he says: "This 

 plate is one of considerable importance in its morphological relations. 

 In accordance with the views which I have expressed elsewhere, I 

 believe it to be the representative on the actinal side, or left larval 

 antimer, of the dorsocentral plate which is developed in the center 

 of the right antimer or abactinal side of Urchins, Stellerids, and 

 Crinoids." And on pp. 1 59 and ] 70, in pointing out its relations 

 to the proximals, he calls the plate the orocentral, and speaks of it 

 as a single plate. That is all Dr. Carpenter had to say about it, 

 and probably all that could be said, for such a j^late has been here- 

 tofore unknown in Echinoderm morphology. 



We do not deny that the so called dorsocentral of Ui'chins and 

 Stellerids is represented in the Comatula larva by the terminal jDlate 

 of the stem, but we see no good reason to postulate from this a 

 similar plate in the oral center. There are at the abactinal side 

 frequently also underbasals, which on the same principle should l)e 

 represented orally, but nothing is known of them. Why should 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



the (lorsocentral be represented at the actinal side when there is no 

 aetinal stem, in tliis or any other group of the Eehinoderms ? The 

 dorsocentral in tlie Echinozoa represents in a wider sense the whole 

 column in its simplest form, although in a narrower sense it is the 

 homologue of the first part of the stem that makes its appearance in 

 the embryo. If there was such a thing as an orocentral in fossil Cri- 

 noids, Blastoids and Cystids, it 'seems to us, it certainly would be rep- 

 resented in the early larva of the living types before the parting of 

 the orals, and in the closed oral pyramid of the Cystids and Steph. 

 anocriuus; but unfortunately for Carpenter's theory we meet with 

 no trace of it in either one of those forms. The plate which he re- 

 gards as orocentral, occupies the place of the five orals in other groups, 

 and in a similar manner as these, covers the peristome and the 

 origin of the ambulacra. This is conclusively shown by comparing 

 the case of Caryocrimis in which the ambulacra start from beneath 

 the central plate and branch twice underneath the surrounding 

 plates,withthecaseof /^^aeromfes (fig. 1) and Stepha7iocrinus (fig. 3), 

 in which the ambulacra start from beneath a penta-partite oral pyramid^ 

 Does this indicate that the five plates constituting the latter, are the rep- 

 resentatives of the proximals? We doubt it, for the structural resem- 

 blance is with the central piece. We think the distribution and arrange- 

 ment of the surrounding plates in Caryocrimis proves conclusively 

 that these cannot be orals, for the most ingenious speculator would be 

 unable to reconstruct five j)rimitive plates from such an assemblage 

 of pieces as we find in Caryocrinus and in Von Koenen's new genus 

 Juglandocrinus^. What those plates may be, whether actinal 

 or abactinal structures, we will not preter.d to der-ide, but Ave do un- 

 dertake to say that they are not orals, otherwise the rule that there 

 are always five primitive orals meets with a very serious exception. 

 Somewhat more favorable perhaps to Carpenter's views is the ar- 

 rangement of the proximals in the Palaeocrinoidea and Blastoidea, 

 in which the plates surrounding the central piece are unquestionably 

 actinal structures, and there is a possibility of reconstructing from 

 the six, seven, or more pieces, five primitive plates. We also admit 

 that in all cases where those plates come in direct contact with the 

 anal structures, their arrangement might possibly have been disturbed 

 thereby, but this explanation is not applicable to forms like Megisto- 

 crinus, Dorycrinus and many others, in which the anus is lateral or 

 moved away from the center to the arm regions or even beneath them. 

 But there are several other equally serious objections. 



*Neiies Jahrhuch fur Mineialogie JS80, Bd. II, Taf. IX, Fig. 3. 




108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



In the Comatula larva, which shows a decidedly bilateral symmetry , 

 there are five equal basals and five equal orals. In Thaumatocrinus, 

 although it has anal plates and a large proboscis, the basals and 

 anals remain undisturbed. The same may be said of the basals of 

 the Palaeocrinoidea and Blast«idea; among which not a single in- 

 stance is known where the basal ring contains either anals or radials, 

 contrary to the proximals, among which nearly always anals and often 

 radials are enclosed. This shows that the presence of such plates, 

 if the proximals in those groups represent the orals, and the latter 

 the basals, would be totally at variance ^\'ith the general rules of the 

 class both as to orals and basals. 



The anal plates of the apical side either abut directly against the 

 radials, or are placed l^etween the interradials. In most of the Cam- 

 arata, the first interradial at the azygous side is split into two halves 

 by the first or second anal piece. In others, the second anal is want- 

 ing, but the interradial is composed of two parts as if the anal were 

 present. In a few groups there are no anal plates Avhatever, and 

 the arrangement of the plates at all five sides is alike. 



The same variations as among the interradials are found in the 

 arrangement of the proximals, * of which the four large plates corre- 

 spond to the calyx interradials at the four regular sides. The two 

 smaller proximals, which occupy the azygous interradius, either are 

 placed between two radial dome plates or they abut against two of 

 the larger proximals, enclosing generally an anal plate — but this 

 may be absent or joushed downard. 



As yet, we have not observed a single instance in which there were 

 five plates around a central one, but should it occur, which Ave think 

 is very possible, we doubt if Messrs. Etheridge and Carpenter, although 

 finding at last their "simpler form," will be able to make much 

 out of it in support of their theories. 



We stated heretofore that fig. A on p. 72 of the Blast. Cat. is 

 erroneous, and this, to some extent is the case with fig. B on the 

 same page. We never saw a Platycrinus with a single interradial, 

 all having three (or more), arranged transversely. Besides, the 

 figure is misleading in not giving the central piece and the so-called 

 radial-dome plates. If these plates had been added, as they should 

 have been to represent the case properly, it would show that the 

 radial-dome plates are placed opposite the radials, the proximals 

 opposite the interradials, and that the central piece takes orally the 



*For the arrangement of the proximals see Revision Pt. Ill, pp. 47 to 50. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 109 



position of the coalesced basal disc ; a totally ditTerent thing from 

 what the English authoi-s attempted to prove by their figure. 



We are altogether in accord with (loette and Carpenter in their 

 opinion that the orals are represented in the abactinal system by 

 the basals, but we disagree entirely^ with the latter writer that the 

 basals are represented orally by the proximals. We regard the 

 proximals as an element similar to the interradials, but, while these 

 fill up vacancies in the calyx, the former fill the open space around 

 the peristome as it widens in the growing animal by the increasing 

 width of the dorsal cup. To this conclusion we were led principally 

 by the arrangement of the plates, the presence of radial and anal 

 plates in the same ringmththem,andby their gradual appearance in 

 geological times. We fiirther believe the central piece is the only plate 

 which in the Palaeocrinoidea and Blastoidea can possibly represent 

 the quinque-partite oral pyramid. AVe regard it as being primi- 

 tively composed of five pieces, such as remained intact persistently 

 in Siephanocrinus and most of the Cystidea, but which were fused 

 together by anchylosis in other groups as aborally in the case of 

 the basals, which gradually were reduced from five to three, and in 

 certain groups to one solid piece. The proximals, therefore, in our 

 opinion, are not of that morphological importance as they are regarded 

 by Dr. Carpenter, and we think the same may be said of the so-called 

 radial dome plates. These also, like the proximals, seem to us mere 

 auxiliary pieces, filling up vacancies, beneath Avhich the branching 

 of the ambulacra takes place. If they deserve the term radials at 

 all, they certainly represent the axillaries, and not the oculars or 

 first radials, except perhaps in some very complex species in which 

 there appear three successive pieces to each ray, the inner ones rest- 

 ing against the central plate in a similar manner as the true radials 

 rest against the basals ; while the third or axillary one holds to- 

 ward the proximals and the ambulacra tlie very same relations as 

 the single radial does in the simpler form (See Revision Pt. Ill, PI. 

 IV, Fig. 4, and PL VIII, Figs. 1, 3.). It is also very significant 

 that frequently in those complex forms there appear toward the cen- 

 ter within the ring of proximaU (orals of Ether, and Carp.), two ex- 

 tra axillaries underneath which the two lateral rays, which are 

 united close to the peristome, divide so as to form the antero-and 

 postero- lateral rays. How Dr. Carpenter will explain the presence 

 of these plates \nthin the "oral" ring, which is said to cover the ori- 

 gin of the ambulacra, is a mystery to us, and we look to him for in- 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



formation. The radial dome plates, as a rule, disappear when the 

 ambulacra enter the surface, and this explains why they are absent 

 in Blastoids,* Stephanocrinus and the later Cyathocrinidae. 



AVe have already alluded to the fact that the proximals are fre- 

 quently unrej^resented in the earlier groups, in which, as a rule, the 

 peristomial area is comparatively smaller than in later ones, and 

 closed only by a small central piece. Upon this point it is very in- 

 teresting that we have recently discovered the same thing in later 

 groups under somewhat different conditions. In two cases, the one 

 a species of Talarocrinus from the St. Louis group of Kentucky (Fig, 

 10), the other a Dichocrinus from the Kinderhook of Iowa, we found 

 the whole space usually occupied by central piece and proximals, 

 although as large as in any Platycrinus, filled completely by an enor- 

 mous, nodose central plate, with the covering pieces abutting against it. 

 Interposed between the ambulacra are a number of small interradial 

 plates, which barely touch the central piece. In these cases, accord- 

 ing to our interpretation, the increasing space of the peristomial area 

 was filled by lateral growth of the orals (central piece), instead of 

 by means of proximals. But according to Carpenter's generaliza- 

 tions (Challenger Report, p. 171), the insignificant interradiaLs next 

 to the central piece, and between the ambulacra, should be the repre- 

 sentatives of the orals or else his rules would encounter another se- 

 rious objection. 



Dr, Carpenter regards both Allagecriuns and Haplocrinus as rep- 

 resenting in a phylogenetic sense embryonic stages of the Palaeocri- 

 noidea. If this be true, he has failed to give a reasonable exj^lana- 

 tion how the large plates covering almost the whole ventral side in 

 these low forms, came to be placed in this group so as to occupy only 

 the relatively small space they do in what he regards as higher de- 

 veloped forms. Etheridge and Carpenter undertook to prove it in 

 their paper, Annals and Mag. Nat. Hist., Apr. 1881, p. 289, by im- 

 agining that, in the more mature specimens of Allagecrlnus "the 

 orals were relatively carried inwards, away from the radials, and 

 separated from them by perisome ( just as they are in the Pentacri- 

 noid larva of Comatula) when the arms appear above the radials. 

 Whether the orals ever separated so as to open the mouth to the ex- 

 terior, and whether the ring of perisome forming the ventral disk 



* Etheridge and Carpenter figure, Blastoid Catalogue on PI. XVIII, Fig, 

 16, Elaeacrinus Vernenili with radial dome plates; none of our specimens show 

 any traces of them. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



between them and the radials was naked, as in Rhizocrlnus, or plated, 

 as in Hyocrinus, must of course remain undiscovered." 



This exphmation is suggestive enough of what may occur in the 

 Neocrinoidea, but they fail to give a parallel case in which such a 

 development as this took place in a single Palaeocrinoid, and this 

 omission is the more important since they place the genus Allagecri- 

 nus in the latter group. They state afterwards (op. cit. p. 289). "It 

 is true we have no proof that there were any orals at all in the older 

 specimens ; but, judging from the relative sizes and development of 

 the largest examples with oral plates, and the smallest without, we 

 think it scarcely likely that they were entirely unrepresented in the 

 adult. It is obvious that, if they were united to the radials by peri- 

 some, whether plated or bare, they would be readily lost under con- 

 ditions that would have had no destructive effect on younger speci- 

 mens, in which there was a closer union between the two rings of 

 plates." 



From the foregoing quotation, it is obvious that the Authors de- 

 sired to prove from the fact that the ventral jilates were not found 

 preserved in what they regarded as the most mature stages of the 

 species, that they could not have rested upon the radials as in their 

 younger examples, and that they were parted from the radials by 

 perisome. Upon this proposition we will observe that we have never 

 found among Palaeocrinoids the slightest evidence indicating to us 

 that any of the summit j^lates were carried inward by perisome. We 

 find that among the Camarata they occupy a comparatively small 

 space, but larger than in the Blastoidea, and that in all cases in 

 which they occur, they are supported by the upward growth of the 

 interradials. In the simpler forms of the Inadunata, when observed, 

 they rest upon a single interradial plate as in the case of the Siluri- 

 an Cyathocrinus alutaceous (Aug.). In the Carboniferous form of 

 Cyathoerinus, in which the ambulacra are placed upon the lateral 

 edges of the interradials, the orals are not carried inward by 

 perisome, but the perisome appears upon the surface of the interra- 

 dial plates. That the ventral plates were not preserved in the so- 

 called adult specimens of AUagecrinus is no proof that they did not 

 exist, or that they were carried inward. The simple fact that the 

 radials underwent the change from the horse-shoe form to a higher 

 state of development, having sti'ongly marked articular facets, ex- 

 tending to the whole width of the plates, is sufficient to explain why 

 the interradials were not intact or reduced in the adult stages. We 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



need only refer to the jiarallel cases of Cyathoerinidae and Poterio- 

 crinidae. In the former, in which the articular facets were com- 

 paratively undeveloped, we have been able, in a number of instances, 

 to observe ventrally the interradial plates, which Etheridge and 

 Carpenter formerly regarded as structually identical with the so- 

 called orals of Allagen'inus. While in the Poteriocrinidae, in which 

 the articular facets are highly developed, no trace of these plates 

 has ever been found. 



We, of course, do not claim that this is positive proof, that in 

 Allagecrirms these plates were not carried inward by perisome, but 

 it militates strongly against the jirobability of such a thing, while 

 the theory that they Avere is at best but the merest conjecture. 

 If Etheridge and Carpenter had placed Allagecrinus and Hajilo- 

 crinus among the Neocrinoidea as larval forms, they might be much 

 better warranted in supposing that the plates in question were orals, 

 and were afterwards carried inward, but both forms have been re- 

 ferred by them to the Palaeocrinoidea, in which that mode of devel- 

 opment is altogether unknown. The case of Cyathocrinus shows 

 clearly that in the later types of the Inadunata the conditions of the 

 Palaeocrinoidea remain unchanged. The summit plates are not 

 carried inward by perisome, but occupy the same space as in the 

 earlier forms, and the perisome is formed upon the outer surface of 

 the interradials. (Revision, Pt. Ill, PI. IV, Figs, 2, 8, 6.) 



We should like to know upon what ground the authors maintain 

 that those genera are Palaeocrinoids, when they interj^ret their 

 structures according to the rules characteristic of the Neocrinoidea. 

 They neither have an anal jalate, nor does Allagecrinus show any 

 such irregularity in the arrangement of its plates, as would of itself 

 warrant a reference to the Palaeocrinoids. The only irregularity 

 noticed in Allagecrhms is that the radials in some specimens may 

 be axillary in one to four of the rays, or not axillary in any o^ 

 them, and upon this character, curiously enough, Etheridge and 

 Carpenter seem to have separated Allagecrinus from the Haplocri- 

 nidae and made it the type of a distinct family. On this alone it 

 appears they divide it from the Neocrinoidea, as if it were one of the 

 most constant characters among the Palaeocrinoids ; while in fact 

 this peculiarity is found only in the Catillocrinidae, in two of the 

 rays of Tribrachiocrinus, and occasionally in Allagecrimis. A char- 

 acter like this is liable to be discovered exceptionally in any new 

 form of Neocrinoids, just as well as among Palaeocrinoids, while among 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



the latter we find a number of genera, in which the arrangement of 

 of the dorsal cup is altogether symmetrical. 



It will not, of course, be inferred from the foregoing remarks that 

 we think Allagecrinus and Haplocrimis belong to the Neocrinoidea, 

 but simply that, if Messrs. Etheridge and (.carpenter's arguments 

 are valid, they necessarily lead to that conclusion. We think, on 

 the contrary, there are the strongest reasons for considering them 

 both to be Palaeocrinoids, and that there is no difficulty in discover- 

 ing entire conformity in their morphological conditions with other 

 Palaeocrinoids. 



Whatever arguments Messrs. Etheridge and Carpenter may here- 

 after offer in favor of their oral theory, it seems to us, they will have 

 to explain upon palaeontological grounds how the five large ventral 

 plates of Allagecrinus and Haplocrinus which cover the whole ven- 

 tral surface happen to occupy in all higher or more advanced forms 

 a comparatively small space around the peristome. They will have 

 to point out by Avhat process the five plates, without coming in con- 

 tact with the anus, were transformed into six j^ieces or more ; and 

 they will have to furnish better proof as to the existence of a so-called 

 "orocentral," or they will have to modify their generalizations, which 

 are based almost exclusively upon this highly hypothetical plate. 



Explanations of Figures, Plate IV. 

 (The followi:ig letters are employed throughout the figures). 



o. Oral plate or oral pyramid ; p, proximals ; i, interradials ; 



i a, interaxillaries ; r, radials ; a, anal plate ; x, anus , g, grooves. 

 Fig. 1. Oral pyramid and surrounding plates of Sphaeronites glo- 

 bosus (after Angelin, Icon. Crin. Suec. Tab. XI, Fig. 14.) 



2. Ventral aspect of Cyathocrinas Gilesi. 



3. The same of Stephanocrinus angulatus. 



4. The same of Haplocrinus mespiliformis. 

 O. Profile view of the same species. 



6. Venti-al aspect of Caryocriniis ornatus (after Hall, Palaeont. 

 N. York, Vol. II, PL 41a, Fig. le). 



7. The ventral plates of Caryocrinus from near Louisville, 

 Ky. (The course of the subtegminal ambulacral tubes in- 

 dicated upon the surface of the plates). 



8. The sa,me of Jugla7idocrinus crassus (after von Koenen, Jahrb. 

 Miner. Bd. II, Taf. IX, Fig. 3.). 



9. Ventral covering of a new Talarocrinus from Kentucky ; , 

 the peristomial area closed by a large central plate with- 

 o',;t the aid o^ proximals. 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



10. The summit plates of Elaeacrinus Verneuili (after Eth. 

 and Carp., Blast. Catal. PI. XVIII, Fig. 16). 



11. The same of Elaeacrinus elegans (from Hall's type in the 

 National Museum of New York.) 



12-14. The same of Elaeacrinus obovatus, as seen in different speci- 

 mens. Fig. 12, all the sutures visible. Fig. 13, the suture 

 between central piece and smaller proximals obliterated. 

 Fig. 14, also those toward the small anal plate obliterated. 




1887.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 115 



April 5. 

 Rev. Henry C. McCook, D. D. in the chair. 



Forty-four persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication: — 



"The Terrestrial Mollusca inhabiting the Samoa or Navigator 

 Islands." By Andrew Garrett. 



"Notes on Fresh-water Rhizopods of Swatow, China." By Adele 

 M. Fielde. 



Note on the Multiplication of Disioma. — A note was read from 

 Miss Adele M. Fielde, dated Swatow, China, Feb., 1887, to the 

 effect that Distoma infests a species of snail found in many of the pools 

 and wells near Swatow which is eaten, boiled, by the Chinese, and 

 which is fed raw to ducks and geese. On dissecting, recently, an 

 apparently healthy specimen, having a shell an inch long, she had 

 found its liver almost wholly replaced by a Redia, the parent of the 

 Cercaria, which being passively transferred to the alimentary canal 

 of a vertebrate, develops into the Distoma. The life history of this 

 trematode, as worked out by A. P. Thomas, is given in the Quarterly 

 Journal of Microscopical Science, 1883, pp. 99-133, and Limnceus 

 is mentioned as its host. 



The Redice seen in the snails were of an orange yellow 

 color and the largest were one-tenth of an inch in length. 

 There were counted two hundred and fifty-three that were large enough 

 to be easily isolated by the use of a needle point under the naked 

 eye ; and scores more, of smaller size and paler yellow, Avere visible 

 under a lens. On opening several of the larger Redice, whose mus- 

 cular mouths were active; they were found each to contain from 

 eighteen to twenty-six Cercarice, strong enough to whirl their tails 

 vigorously, beside many embryos less fully developed. The Cer- 

 carice moved rapidly over a glass slide by the use of their two 

 suckers ; and, merged in water, retained their vitality for thirty 

 hours after being removed from the snail and the Redia. The one 

 snail must have been the host of at least ten thousand larval 

 Di stomas. 



April 12. 

 Mr. Charles P. Perot in the chair. 



Thirty-one persons present. 



The Plucentation of the Two-toed Ant-eater, Cycloturus didacfylus. 

 -Prof. J. A. Ryder remarked that some months since Mr. J. W. 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Scollick kindly placed in his hands an example of the uterus, con- 

 taining a perfect foetus of this interesting little arboreal South 

 American Ant-eater. The only description of the foetus and mem- 

 branes of this animal which the speaker had been able to find, was 

 l>y Mayer, in his Aiudecta, while Milne-Edwards has figured and 

 described the foetus and membranes of the allied form, Tamandua, 

 in the "Annales des Sciences Naturelles." 



The almost globular uterus, containing a Avell-developed foetus, in 

 the specimen exhil)ited at the meeting of the Academy, was about 

 one inch in diameter. The placenta was relatively large, dome- 

 shaped, or in the form of a disk, seven-eighths of an inch in diame- 

 ter, much thickened in the center and becoming abruptly thin at 

 its margin. Its outer or maternal surface was very convex and its 

 inner or foetal surface distinctly concave. The rather short, stout 

 umbilical cord was attached at about the center of the disk and to 

 its inner surface. The placental disk when carefully inspected 

 upon its inner surface was found to be distinctly lobulated, some- 

 what as in the Sloths, as described by Sir Wm. Turner. The 

 fissures which divided the placental disk were especially conspicuous 

 when the edges of the disk were slightly bent by the fingers towards 

 the convex side. 



The uterine cornua were short, and the uterus was simple as in 

 man and the sloths ; the oviducts apparently quite small ; the 

 ovaries of strikingly unequal dimensions on oj)posite sides. No 

 portion of the uterus was exserted or projected into the vagina as 

 in man, but the walls of the vagina passed directly into those of the 

 uterus. The vaginal mucous membrane was, however, deeply 

 plicated in a longitudinal direction, these plications extending 

 slightly into the cavity of the uterus. 



The vessels of the cord are subdivided at their insertion into the 

 placental disk ; arterial and venous branches going to and from the 

 several placental lobes, of which there were five, which could be 

 distinctly made out. 



On the inner surface of the uterine walls, there were apparently 

 adherent portions of the foetal and maternal tissues of the placenta, 

 showing that this type is in all probability more or less deciduate, 

 notwithstanding the fact that the uterine walls ai^e relatively quite 

 thin. The area embraced by the true chorion or placenta covered 

 very nearly one-half of the inner surface of the globular^ distended 

 uterus. The fixlse chorion made up the other half of the membran- 

 ous investment of the foetus and was quite thin and translucent. It 

 covered Avith its outer surface about half of the inside of the uterus, or 

 that hemisphere of the latter at the pole of which the vagina opened 

 from without. The fijetus itself was well advanced, having as yet no 

 outward hairy coat, nor could any traces of hair follicles be noted in 

 the skin. No epitrichium was observed, though this may be devel- 

 oped at a later period, or after the hair is erupted from the folli- 

 cles. The total length of the fiietus was nearly or quite three 

 inches, of which the long stout tail formed more than a third. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117 



The speaker then contrasted the various types of pUicentation, 

 j)ointing out that it was Largely a matter of how the bhistoderinic 

 vesicle was primarily brought into relation with the walls of the 

 uterus. If the foetation occurred in the bicorned or tubuhir tyjie of 

 uterus there was an obvious tendency toward the diffuse or zonary 

 type of placenta, as sliown in Ungulates and Carnivora, and in those 

 uniparous forms in which the foetus occupies mainly one horn of the 

 uterus, and in which there are bare poles to the chorion and a 

 bare spot where the latter comes in contact with the os uterus as in 

 the Mare and Dugong. Here, the mere mechanical relations of 

 the foetal and maternal surfaces obviously had liad an influence in 

 determining the form of the placenta. The zonaiy placenta was 

 also imitated in Arthropods (Peripatus) in virtue of the existence 

 of such similar conditions in both the latter and Carnivorous 

 Mammalia. The speaker thought that all attempts to use the pla- 

 centa as a means of clearly distinguishing the various orders of 

 mammalia or of subdividing the latter into sub-classes would, in the 

 course of further embryological research, be shown to be not well 

 founded. This seemed all the more probable since the rationale of 

 the so-called " inversion " of the germinal rays of Rodentia was 

 better understood. As a result of fuller knowledge it is hardly 

 conceivable that a zonary placenta could be found in those types, 

 notwithstanding the fact that they at first seem to present the same 

 type of condition for the blastodermic vesicle in the uterine 

 cornua as do the Carnivora. But now that we know that some of 

 the Insectivora (Talpa) tend in the same direction the anomalies 

 which are presented by Insectivora and Rodentia become explain- 

 able and lead us up to the view that, it depends (1) upon the mode 

 in which the early development is modified, and (2) upon the man- 

 ner in which the foetus is related to the maternal surfiices, whether 

 the diflTuse, zonary or discoidal form of placenta will be assumed. 



In the case of the Sloths and Ant-eaters, of South America, the 

 uterus has attained a remarkable degree of specialization, so as to 

 greatly resemble the simple uterus of the higher Primates, and in 

 this case again, the relationship between the form of the uterine 

 cavity and that of the placenta seems obvious, for in the sloths, 

 ant-eaters and higher primates, the jilacenta is essentially discoidal 

 and deciduate. In the sloth, however, Turner has shown the 

 discoidal placenta to be made up of separable lobes ; these may be 

 conceived as representing the cotyledons of Ungulates, or groups of 

 tufts in the diffuse ty])e of placenta, which have been crowded 

 together as the uterine cornua became shortened on the mesometric 

 side, in the transition from the bifid to the simple type of uterus. 

 Some further ground for this view of the origin of the lobulated 

 discoidal, dome-shaped placenta of the sloths is suj^plied by the fact 

 that in Manis, or the scaly Ant-eater of the Old World, the placenta 

 is diffuse and non-deciduate. In some of the Armadilloes the 

 placenta is transversely oblong, and this again is a fact favorable to 

 the preceding view. 




118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



In like manner, the terms " deciduate " and " non-deciduate " do 

 not serve to sharply mark off groups from each other, but probably 

 rest for their distinction upon the more or less intimate and comjilex 

 interlocking of the foetal and maternal membranes during tiieir 

 functional activity. So that in this case again we are dealing with 

 structures and structural conditions differing only in degree but not 

 in kind. The extra thickening of the decidua or uterine mucosa in 

 the extremest type of deciduate placenta, may be regarded as cor- 

 related with the restriction, concentration or reduction of the 

 placental area and the formation of a decidua serotina. Finally, it 

 is proper to call attention to the fact that the American Edentata 

 ai'e more specialized as respects their placentation than those of the 

 Old World. The American forms, further, generally agree amongst 

 themselves, except that in the Armadilloes, Milne-Edwards, 

 Kolliker and Von Jhering have observed that, in some species, 

 there may be a number of foetuses invested by a common chorion, 

 on which account, the latter author has supposed that such a com- 

 pound embryo is the result of the fragmentation or subdivision of a 

 single egg, a phenomenon of metagenesis to which he has applied 

 the appropriate term Temnogeny. 



Sugar in China. — At the recent meeting of the Botanical Section, 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan read the following extract from a letter of 

 Miss Adele M. Fielde, a missionary in C/hina. The letter is dated 

 from Swatow. " My attention has lately been called to an error, 

 existing apparently in many minds, concerning the plant from 

 which sugar is made in China. A late consular report from Can- 

 ton says the plant is a species of Sorghum, and in the American 

 Cyclopaedia (Appleton, 1863), the article on Sorghum appears to 

 me to convey the same idea. I send you to-day flowers of the 

 plant cultivated very extensively for the sugar in the neighborhood of 

 Swatow, and which is the source of the chief export of this treaty 

 port. It seems to me no sorghum, but by the description in botanical 

 works, the true Saccharum offiemarnm. Tell me whether it 

 differs from the plant from which sugar is made in the Southern 

 United States. Propagation is from cuttings, — a section of the 

 culm, a foot long, being set out at each planting. This planting is 

 done in February, and is ready to be cut for pressing out the juice 

 eleven months later. In the fourth year the stubble is removed, 

 and new cane is planted. It is not allowed to flower, as the culti- 

 vators say it spoils it for use in sugar making." ]\'Ir. Meehan said 

 he could scarcely understand how the idea should get currency 

 that Sorghum yielded the sugar of China, for though the native 

 country of the true sugar cane is unknown, the civilized world is 

 indebted to China for the first knowledge that what we know as 

 sugar could be extracted from the cane. Manufactured sugar 

 from this cane was known in China before it was known in Europe. 

 As for Sorghum, though sugar could be made from it, it had been 

 found so unreliable for that i)uri)ose, <lepending a])parently more on 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA, 119 



some chemical accident than on vital power, that it was douhtful 

 if sugar in any quantity had ever been made from it in China or 

 anywhere else. Certainly the specimens sent by Miss Fielde were 

 of the true sugar cane, as grown by us in the Southern States. 



Floral Calendars. — In regard to the times of flowering of plants, 

 Mr. Meehan exhibited blooms of the winter Aconite, Ermithus 

 hyemalis, and the Snowdrop, Galanthus nivalis, Avhich this year 

 were blooming together on the 10th of April. In other seasons the 

 same plants, growing side by side, had given flowers of the winter 

 Aconite, several weeks before the Snowdrop. The exjilanation was 

 that some plants would start into growth at a lower temperature 

 than others. The Snowdrop would remain at rest under a low 

 temperature quite sufficient to excite the Aconite. In a season 

 when the thermometer remained regularly lower than sufficient to 

 excite growth in the Aconite, the plant remained quiescent until the 

 warmer spring weather brought forward both kinds together. These 

 facts showed that no such a scheme as a floral calendar could be 

 established, as the relative blooming of plants depended on accidents 

 of temperature rather than on any fixed climatal conditions. 



Cortical Peculiarities in the Plum. — Some specimens of supposed 

 hybrids between the Peach and the Plum were sent to the Academy 

 for examination. The chief reasons for the belief that they were 

 hybrids were that they were sterile, and seemed in leaf and 

 branches intermediate between the two species. Mr. Meehan 

 observed, that in hybrids between acknowledged species, it did not 

 follow that the characters should be intermediate. . Often there 

 would be scarcely any trace of the action of the male parent, while 

 at other times the male would seem to have had a leading influ- 

 ence. But these plum branches showed no trace of any inter- 

 mediate characters, but were purely plum branches, with no sign 

 of the Peach character about them. 



He said he had called the attention of the Academy on several 

 occasions in the past to the fact that the bark of trees did not crack 

 from the mechanical pressure of wood-growth, as so often taught in 

 botanical text-books, but the rifts arose from the peculiar growth of 

 cork cells, and it was the character and general direction of these 

 growths, apparently different in species, that gave the varied char- 

 acters to tree bark, — characters that were more or less constant in 

 each species of tree. A tree could in fact be nearly as well 

 known by its bark as by its fruit. The development of the cork 

 cells destroyed the cuticle. In the Cherry and Birch the chief 

 development was in a lateral direction, and hence we could easily 

 strip sections from around branches. In the Abele Poplar the 

 development destroyed the bark to a considerable depth, and in a 

 quadrangular form. These gradually met at the points and at once 

 formed deep furrows up and down the stem. In the Plane and 

 some other trees, the cork cells worked up and down under thick 

 layers of bark which it threw off in flakes. But the chief distinc- 




120 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



tion was in the period of life when they assumed activity. In the 

 Chestnut ( Castanea) it was nearly 25 years before they grew into 

 destructive agencies, and hence there was smooth bark to the Chest- 

 nut for nearly a quarter of a century. In the oak rough bark from 

 the development of the cork cells, began at about ten years, in the 

 Sassafras at live years, — in some they started at one and occasionally 

 the same season. In the Beech they grew the first season, and 

 only worked under the outer cuticle, which they threw off as fine 

 film annually. Handling a branch of Beech at some seasons, a 

 filmy deposit would be left in the hands, which was the fine silky 

 bark of the Beech. Hence the Beech had never rough bark. 

 This fact should show mechanical action had no part in rifting the 

 bark. Mechanical action should split a Beech as well as any other 

 tree. 



Returning to the Plum, he remarked that the development of 

 the cork cells were in many respects the same as in the Beech. 

 They started on their destructive errand before the annual growth 

 was fairly over, destroying the thin outer cuticle as it progressed. 

 It was this that gave the silvery tint to Plum wood with which all 

 must be familiar. This was never seen on Peach wood. This 

 character was exhibited in all the samples of supposed hybrids sent. 

 There was nothing whatever to distinguish them from pure Plums 

 so fixr as this character was concerned. 



As for the flowers, the plants were sterile because of peculiar 

 abortion in the reproductive organs. The carpels instead of being 

 consolidated, ending in a single style as in the ordinary Plum, had 

 become distinct, and they were ten processes diflRcult to say Avhether 

 they resembled stamens or pistils most. There were no attempts to 

 form perfect stamens or petals, — but the bud scales had a faint rosy 

 margin as if there existed a slight disposition to make petals out 

 of them. They were remarkable examples of monstrosity in Plum 

 flowers, but nothing to indicate any action of the Peach therein. 

 They were evidently sterile because they were monstrous, and not 

 that' they were hybrids. The foliage had a more peachy look than 

 customary with Plums, so far as mere outline was concerned, — but 

 it is well known that when there was a disturbance of sexual 

 characters, the whole system of growth was apt to be disturbed. 

 It was possible the Plum and the Peach would hybridize. It would 

 be of much interest to science could the possibility be proved a 

 fact. It was due to science to say these specimens did not prove it. 

 The chief interest in the specimens, he thought, dwelt in the fact 

 that amidst all the changes in characters brought about by some 

 abnormal agency, the coi'tical peculiarities as influenced by the 

 cork cells remained the same. 



April 19. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Fifteen persons present. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



April 26. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 

 Twenty-three persons present. 

 The following letter was read : — 



Board of Trustees of the Building Fund, 



Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 



April 25, 1887. 

 Dr. Jos. Leidy, 



President of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 

 Dear Sir: — 



I have the pleasure to inform you that in conformity with a 

 recommendation of the Council and requisition of the Academy, the 

 title of the land on the Avest side of Nineteenth Street between Race 

 and Cherry Streets, with the buildings erected thereon, heretofore 

 held in trust for the society, has been lawfully conveyed in fee 

 simple to the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia; and 

 that the deed has been duly recorded and deposited in the fire-proof 

 of the Academy. 



I am very respectfully, 

 Yr. Obt. Servant, 



W. S. W. RUSCHENBERGER, 



Chairman Trustees of Building Fund. 



Ovo-viviparous Generation in Tropidonotus. — Professor Heilprin 

 presented the following communication, dated April 15, 1887, from 

 Mr. H. C. Young, of the Philadelphia Custom House, referring to 

 a \yater-snake shot by that gentlemen some fourteen years ago, at a 

 locality about three miles above Salem, N. J. "Upon examining 

 the snake (which was almost as thick as my fore-arm) I found it 

 contained considerable of a bunch which I supposed to be something 

 it had swallowed, but upon cutting it open I found it contained small 

 snakes in a bag, each one in a separate division formed as it were by 

 a twist in the bag. I took them out and found there were 33 of 

 them of different sizes a number of the smaller ones having a portion 

 of an egg attached to them, which they appeared to be absorbing, 

 the larger ones having had already absorbed theirs. I was then 

 convinced that while the land-snakes lay eggs in the earth to be 

 hatched by the heat of the sun, the young of the water-snake are 

 actually hatched in the belly of the mother." Prof. Heiljirin stated 

 that the snakes had been presented by Mr. Young to the Academy, 

 and on examination proved to be Tropidonotus sipedon. The case 

 demonstrated beyond a question of doubt that the species was ovo- 

 viviparous. 



Prof. Henry A. Ward, of Rochester, was elected a correspondent. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 9 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



NOTES ON FRESH-WATER RHIZOPODS OF SWATOW, CHINA. 



BY ADELE M. FIELDE. 



During the month of February, in ooze taken from the pools and 

 ditches near my house, and preserved in soup-plates under water an 

 inch in depth, I have seen Amoeba radiosa, Amceba verrucosa, 

 Dlfflugia pyriformis, Difflugia acuminata, Difflugia cornuta, 

 Diflugia corona, Difflugia nodosa, Difflugia compressa, Difflugia 

 spiralis, Difflugia lohostoma, Difflugia glohulosa, Arcella vul- 

 garis, Arcella discoides, Centropyxis aculeata, Centropyxis ecornis, 

 with the empty shells of Euglypha alveolata, and the Heliozoans, 

 Actinophyrs sol, Actinophyrs picta, Actinosphcerium, and Acantho- 

 cystis. Of Difflugia spiralis, the greater number had shells 

 formed of vermicular pellets. In Dfflugia lobostoma the mouth of 

 several specimens seen, was six lobed, and the shell of a glossy brown, 

 ovoid or spherical, and so constructed of oval plates mingled with 

 sand grains as to resemble Nehela. I have also seen several empty 

 shells of Dfflugia cratera, of bright brown membrane, and of the 

 shape shoAvn in Fig. 20, Plate XII, in Leidy's work on Rhizopods. 

 These shells were only x^Vo of an inch in length, and had no sand 

 grains adherent. 



All the above species and varieties having been fully described 

 and illustrated by Leidy, in his book on the Fresh-water Rhizopods 

 of North America, I note their presence here only in order to record 

 the interesting fact of their wide distribution. 



In addition to the above, I have found another species, not de- 

 scribed by Leidy, which has been identified with Difflugia tri- 

 angulata, Lang, (Dfflugia bipes. Carter). From the cancellated 

 character of the shell this form probably belongs to the genus 

 Nebela, Leidy. Another species observed is probably the Nebela 

 collaris, Leidy. 



The specimens of the form regarded as Dfflugia (Nebela) 

 triangulata vary but little in size in a great number of specimens 

 observed, averaging ^^^ of an inch in length, with a mouth xoVo of an 

 inch in diameter ; with two horns on the lateral borders of the 

 fundus, the horns being usually jo^to of an inch in length, and 

 placed in different specimens at very different angles to the 

 long axis of the shell. In some specimens a protuberance rises 

 midway between the horns. The greatest diameter of the shells 




^X) 



1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123 



varies considerably with the inclination of the horns, a difFei'ence of 

 joVo of an inch being observed in different specimens having the 

 same length, -f^-^ to -^ of an inch being common. The transverse 

 diameter is always. about half that of the broad diameter, — narrow- 

 ing gradually to the cylindroid mouth. The hexagonal cancella- 

 tions are about ^-^ of an inch in diameter, their regularity varying. 

 The sarcode in the specimens observed occupied not more than half 

 the interior capacity of the shell, pyrifbrm in shape, with never 

 more than three pseudopods projected. A current of water directed 

 into the mouth of a shell, caused, in one instance, the instant retrac- 

 tion of two long pseudopods, and the carrying of the whole mass of 

 sarcode to the ftindus of the shell. 



The shell of Nehela collaris, Leidy, is obovate in the broad aspect, 

 and the fundus is edged with what looks like a row of tiny bubbles. 

 In the lateral aspect, the shell is generally pyriform, vnih an acute 

 fundus. The length of the shell is about ^iw of an inch, and its 

 greatest breadth 3^, the proportions varying but slightly in many 

 specimens observed. The sarcode is the same as in Difflugia cornuta, 

 and many specimens were observed with the sarcode formed into a ball 

 in the center of the shell. The sarcode of all specimens seen, con- 

 tained numerous brown granules and brown or greenish food-balls, 

 similar in color to the diatoms and desmids associated with all these 

 Rhizopods. 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



THE TERRESTRIAL MOLLUSCA INHABITING THE SAMOA OR 

 NAVIGATOR ISLANDS. 



BY ANDREW GARRETT. 



The earliest notice we have of the land-shells of the Samoa Is- 

 lands, was published by Dr. Gould in the " Proceedings of the Bos- 

 ton Society of Natural History" for 1846 and 1847, and subsequently 

 redescribed and figured in the "Mollusca and Shells of the United 

 States Exploring Expedition." He described .14 new species. 



In 1865, Prof Mousson published in the French Journal of 

 Conchology a list of the land and fresh-water shells of Samoa, based 

 on the collections made by Dr. GriifFe. He enumerated 29 species 

 of lalid-shells, 14 of which were new to science. In 1869 he pub- 

 lished a second list in the same journal and brought the number of 

 species up to 48^ 11 of which were described as new. 



In the following pages the writer records 65 species, 32 of which 

 are endemic ; the others having a more or less extensive range 

 throughout Polynesia. 



MICROCYSTIS, Beck. 

 M. Upolensis, Mousson. 



Nanina Upolensis, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 166; (Mi- 

 crocystis) 1869, p, 327, 1870, Var. Oneataensis, p. 114. (Thalassia) 

 Paetel, Cat. Conch., p. 85. Schmeltz, Cat. Mus. Godeff, v, p. 90. 



Helix Upolensis, Pfeiffer, Mon. Hel., v. p. 108. A 



Helicopsis Upolensis, Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 475. 



Helix Samoensis, Baird, French Cruise of the Curacoa. 



I gathered numerous specimens of this species in the forests back 

 of Apia village at Ui:)olu Island, where Dr. Graffe found the type 

 examples. The Doctor subsequently discovered it at Vanua, Balavo, 

 and Oneata in the Viti Islands. 



It may be characterized by its depressed orbicular form, smooth, 

 highly polished surface, pale horn color, 5 slightly convex whorls 

 and slightly nodulous columella. Diam. 62 mill. A strictly terres- 

 trial species, living beneath decaying leaves and under rotten wood. 

 M. perpolita, Mousson. 



Nanina {Microcystis) perpolita, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, 

 p. 326, pi. 14, fig. 1 ; 1870, p. 113 ; 1871, var. solida, p. 8. Schmeltz, 

 Cat. Mus. Godeff, v. p. 90. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



Helicopsis perpolita, Pease, Proc. Zool. Soe., p. 475. 



Helix perpolita. Pfeiffer, Mon. Hel., vii, p. 65. 



A number of examples occured to my notice in the same station 

 and location as the preceding species. It is also recorded from the 

 Tonga and Viti Islands. 



It may be known by its convexly-depressed form, 4 2 convex 

 whorls, polished surface and yellowish horn-color. Diam. 7 mill. 



M. ensifera, Mousson. 



Nanina (Gastrodonta) ensifera, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, 

 p. 328, pi. 14, %. 2. 



Helicopsis ensifera, Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 475. 



Helix ensifera, Pfeiffer, Mon. Hel., viii, p. 259. This small spe- 

 cies, which is unknown to me is simply accredited to "Samoa" and 

 was discovered by Dr. Graffe. 



It maybe easily determined by its diminutive size (2 mill, in 

 diam.), depressed-globose form, thin, pellucid texture, highly polished 

 surface, minutely perforated base and plicated columella. Within 

 the aperture are two lamelliform teeth, the upper submedian and 

 the latter close to the base of the columella. 

 ■? M. Tutuillae, Cox. 



Helix 'Tutuillae Cox, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1870, p. 83. Pfeiffer, Mon. 

 Hel., vii., p. 64. 



I am unacquainted with this species which was discovered by Mr. 

 Brazier at Tutuilla. 



Dr. Cox says it is a small, imperforated, depressly-conical species 

 of a pale brownish color, the upper parts minutely granulated, base 

 smooth and shining, and the wide suture is canaliculated. It has 

 5 rounded whorls, the last not depressed or carinated, lip thin and 

 the aperture is roundly lunate. "Diam. maj. 0,12, min. 0,10, alt. 

 0,09, poll. (Cox.) 



TROCHONANINA, Mousson. 

 T. Samoensis, Mousson. 



jS^anina Samoensis, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 165 



Helix Samoensis, Pfeiffer, Mon. Hel., v, p. 70. 



Zonites (Conula) Samoensis, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 

 331 ;• 1870, p. 116; 1871, p. 10. Paetel, Cat. Conch., p. 86. Schmeltz, 

 Cat. Mus. Godeff, v, p. 90. 



Helix Clayi, Liardet, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1876, p. 101, pi. 5, fig. 7. 



Microcystis Samoensis, Garrett, Jour. Phil. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1881, 

 p. 384. 




126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Not uncommon beneath decaying vegetation. It is also found in 

 the Tonga, Viti, Cook's and Marquesas Islands. 



It may be determined by its small size (3 mill, in diam.), perfor- 

 ated base, depressed turbinate form, reddish or brownish horn color, 



5 strongly convex whorls and angulated periphery. 



T. microconus , Mousson. 



Nanina microconus, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 192. 

 (Thalassia) Paetel, Cat. Conch., p. 85. 



Helix microconus, Pfeiffer, Mon. Hel., v, p. 94. 



Zonites (Conulus) microconus, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1870., p. 

 117. Paetel, Cat. Conch., p. 86. Schmeltz, Cat. Mus. Godeif., p. 

 90. 



Helix Pinnocki, Liardet, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1876, p. 100, pi. 5, figs. 

 5, 5a. 



This, like the preceding species, lives beneath decaying vegeta- 

 tion and is also found in the Viti and Tonga Islands. 



A minute, perforated, conical, grayish horn-colored species with 

 51 spirally striated whorls, the last one acutely angulated and the 

 base smooth. 

 T. Sclimeltziana, Mousson. 



Nanina Schmeltziana, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p, 167. 1869. 

 {Trochonanina), p. 329, pi. 14, fig. 4. Schmeltz, Cat. Mus. Godeff"., 

 V, p. 91. (Thalassa) Paetel, Cat. Conch., p. 85. 



Helix Schmeltziana, Pfeiffer, Mon. Hel., v, p. 58. 



Trochomorpha Schmeltziana, Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 474. 



I found two examples of this delicate species on the foliage of 

 shrubs on the low lands near the sea-shore at Upolu. 



Its most essential characters are its thin delicate texture, smooth 

 imperforated base, depressed conical form, luteous-horn color, mar- 

 gined suture, 5 J slightly convex whorls, the last one acutely and 

 compressly carinated. The upper whorls are spirally striated, the 

 striae scarcely visible without the aid of a lens. Diam. 9, height 



6 mill. 



Mousson (in Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 30) describes a var. usur- 



pata which is more elevately conical and the keel not so acute. It 



inhabits Savaii and is probably a distinct species. 



TROCHOMORPHA, Albers. 

 T. Troilus, Gould. 



Helix (Carocolla) Troilus, Gould, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 127 



1846, p. 176 ; Exp. Exp. Shells, p. 58, fig. 55, Pfeiffer, Mon. Hel., 

 i, p. 123; iii, p. 158, (Videna) Vers., p. 132. Chem. ed. 2d, Helix, 

 p. 270, pi. 109, figs. 25. 26. Moussou, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 

 170, Schnieltz, Cat. Mus. Godeff"., v, p. 94. 



Nanina {Discus) Troilus, Albers, Die Hel., ed. 2d, p. 62. Paetel, 

 Cat. Conch:, p. 85. 



Trochomorpha Troilus, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 333. 

 Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 474. Semper, Phil, Land-Moll, ii, 

 p. 114, pi. 12, fig. 11. 



Abundant beneath decaying leaves in forests at Upolu. 



This species is of a depressed turbinate form, with a moderate 

 umbilicus, 5 2 convex whorls, the last one angulated and the color 

 variable : fulvous, chestnut, corneous, luteous, unicolor or with two 

 chestnut bands one above and one beneath the angulated periphery. 

 Sometimes there is only a single spiral line on the upper surface. 

 Diam. 18 to 20 mill. 



T. tuber, Mousson. 



Trochomorpha tuber, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 334, \A. 

 14, fig. 5, Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 474. 



Helix tuber, Schmeltz, Cat. Mus. Godeff"., v, p. 95, Pfeiffer, Mus. 

 Hel, vii, p. 278. 



The habitat and station is the same as the preceding species but 

 is much more rare. 



This rather small species may be characterized by its obtuse coni- 

 cal form, perforated base, yellowish horn color and two narrow 

 chestnut bands, one above the other beneath the periphery. Whorls 

 5^, convexly-rounded and the last one very slightly angulated. 

 Diam. 12, height 9 mill. 



T. subtrocMformis, Mousson. 



Helix trochiformis, Gould (not of Ferussac), Exp. Exp. Shells, p. 

 61. 



Helix Eurydice, Mousson (not of Gould), Jour, de Conch., 1865, 

 p. 170. 



Trochomorpha sub-trochiformis, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, 

 p. 335, pi. 4, fig. 6 ; 1870, var. albo-striata, p. 122. Pease, Proc. 

 Zool. Soc. 1871, p. 474. 



Helix sub-trochiformis, Schmeltz, Cat. Mus. Godeff"., v, p. 95. 

 Pfeiff"er, Mon. Hel, vii, p. 289. 




128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Abundant at Upolu and Savaii. 



A depressed pyramidal species with a moderate umbilicus, rounded 

 apex and 5 J slightly convex whorls, the last one acutely and com- 

 pressly keeled. The rude and irregular stride of grox^th resemble 

 interrupted pale scratches. Color luteous, or straw-yellow with a 

 dorsal and basal reddish-chestnut band. Diam. 17 mill. ' 



Prof. Mousson has described a variety from Kanathia, one of the 

 Viti Islands, under the name albo-striata. It is probably a distinct 

 species. 



T. tentoriolum, Gould. 



Helix tentoriolum, Gould, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., 1846, p. 

 176; Exp. Exp. Shells, p. 63, fig. 53. Pfeiffer, Mon. Hel., p. 119. 



Trochomorpha tentoriolum, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 

 385. Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 474. 



Dr. Gould Avho described this species from examples collected by 

 the United States Exploring Expedition cites " Upolu" as its hab- 

 itat. As it has not been noticed by subsequent explorers its exist- 

 ence in that group certainly needs confirmation. 



It is a small, trochiform pale greenish sjjecies with rounded apex 

 and 6 flattened whorls which are beautifully striated and the last 

 one acutely carinated. Diam. 9, height 7 mill. 

 T. navigatorum, Pfeiffer. 



Helix navigatorum, Pfeiffer, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1854, p. 55 ; Mon. 

 Hel., iv, p. 114; (Videna) Vers., p, 132. Reeve, Conch. Icon., no. 

 1303, pi. 187. 



Trochomorpha navigatorum. Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 474. 



Dr. Pfeiffer described this species from specimens in the Cuming- 

 ian Collection which were labelled "Navigator Islands." Like the 

 preceding species the above habitat is questionable. 



Pfeiffer says it is a moderately umbilicated, solid, lentiform species 

 of a purplish-brown, or reddish-grey color, with an obtuse, convex 

 spire, marginated suture and 6 slightly convex whorls, the last one 

 compressly carinated, Diam. 18 j, height 72 mill. 

 T. luteo-cornea, Pfeiffer. 



Helix luteo-cornea, Pfeiffer, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1854, p. 56 ; Mon. 

 Hel., iv, p. 186 , ( Videna) Vers., p. 132. Reeve, Conch. Icon., no. 

 1287, pi. 186. 



This, like the preceding species, is described from specimens in 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 129' 



Cuming's Collection, labelled "Navigator Islands." It has not been 

 identified by either Prof. Mousson or myself. 



The description refers to a solid, lenticular, conoidal luteous-horn 

 colored species with a moderately sized umbilicus and five regular 

 striae. Whorls 5, convex, the last one angulated. 



T. Samoa, Hombron and Jacquinot. 



Helix Samoa, Hom. et Jacq., Voy. Pol Sud., Zool., v, p. 11, pi. 4, 

 figs. 28-31. Pfeiffer, Mon. Hel., iv, p. 69. 



Helicopsis. Samoa, Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 475. 



This species which has not been identified since the above nat- 

 uralists published their description, may possibly be a form of 

 Gould's Troilus. They give the habitat "Upoulon"= Upolu. 



They describe it as having a medium sized umbilicus, conoidal 

 form, rather fine striae, luteous color with two fuscous lines, and 

 5 J whorls, the last one subangular; base convex, aperture lunate 

 and the peristome simple. Diam. 18, height 10 mill. 



PATULA, Held. 

 P. gradata, Gould. 



Helix gradata, Gould, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., 1846, p. 172 ; 

 Exp. Exp. Shells, p. 49, fig. 48. Pfeifier, Mon. Hel., i, p. 104. 

 {Charopa) Paetel, Cat. Conch., p. 90. 



Discus gradatus, H. and A. Adams, Gen. Moll., ii, p. 117. 



Patula gradata, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 168 ; 1869, 

 p. 333; 1871, p. 12. 



Pitys gradata, Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 474. 



Common beneath decaying vegetation and is probably distributed 

 throughout the group. It is common also to the Tonga Islands. 



A small, orbicular, depressed, widely umbilicated species with 5 

 convex whorls, the last one subangulated on the margin of the broad 

 umbilicus and the delicate strire of growth are cancellated by five 

 revolving impressed lines. Aperture sub-orbicular, color pale oliva- 

 ceous with radiating rufous spots. Diam. 6 mill. 

 P. complementaria. Mousson. 



Patula complementaria, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 168, 

 pi. 14, figs. 5, 1869, p. 333. 



Helix complementaria, Pfeiffer, Mon. Hel., v, p. 157. (Patula} 

 Paetel, Cat. Conch., p. 89. 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887- 



Pitys complementaria, Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 474. 



A rare species found beneath rotten wood and under decaying 

 leaves in the forests back of Apia village, Upolu. 



It is a little smaller than gradata and the umbilicus is only mod- 

 erately open. The spire is depressed, suture deep, whorls 5, with 

 transverse, crowded, sharp rib-like striae. Color corneous, tessellated 

 and radiately striped with chestnut. 

 P. allecta, Cox. 



Helix allecta, Cox, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1870, p. 81. Pfeiffer, Mou. 

 Hel., vii, p. 162. 



I am unacquainted with this species which was found at Upolu. 



Dr. Cox says it is a minute, depressed, orbicular reddish-chestnut 

 species, with closely-set strong striae, 4 2 to 5 convex whorls, deep 

 suture and the broad umbilicus is saucer shaped. 



PITYS, Beck. 

 P. hystricelloides, Mousson. 



Patula hystricelloides, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 169, pi. 

 14, fig. 6. {Endodmta) 1869, p. 331. Schmeltz, Cat. Mus. GodefT., 

 V, p. 93. 



Helix hystricelloides, Pfeiffer, Mon. Hel., v, p. 221. {Patula^ Pae- 

 tel, Cat. Conch., p. 91. 



Pitys hystricelloides, Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 474. 



Not uncommon under rotten wood and beneath decaying leaves. 

 Upolu. 



This species may be determined by its depressed rounded form, 

 curved costulate strise, Repressed spire, 5j whorls, and more partic- 

 ularly by the numerous laminae in the aperture, of which there are 

 from 3 to 4 on the parietal region and 6 to 8 in the palate. The 

 umbilicus is about one-fifth the diameter of the shell. Diam. 4z 

 mill. 

 P. Graeffei, Mousson. 



Patula (Endodonta) Graeffei, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 

 332, pi. 14, fig. 3. 



Helix G7-dffei, Pfeiffer, Mon. Hel., vii, p. 258. 



Pitys Graff ei, Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 474. 



I am not acquainted with this species which was found at Upolu 

 by Dr. Griiffe. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 131 



It is a little larger than the preceding species, with a more open 

 umbilicus, 5 whorls, and 2 laminse on the parietal wall and 5 in the 

 palate. "Diam. 5-2 mill. 



STENOGYRA, Shuttlcworth. 

 S. Tuckeri, Pfeiffer. 



Bulimus Tuckeri, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1846, p. 30 ; Mon. Hel., ii, p. 

 158; ( Opeas) Yers., p. 156, Reeve, Conch. Icon., pi. 68, sp. 481. 

 (Opeas) Cox, Mon. Aust. Land Shells, p. 69, pi. 13, fig. 9, Brazier, 

 Quar. Jour. Conch., i, p. 272. 



Stenogyra Tuckeri, Albers, Die Hel., ed. 2d. p. 265. (Opeas) 

 Frauenfeld, Verh. Zool.-Bot. Wien, xix, p. 873. Pease. Proc. 

 Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 473. Garrett, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 1881, p. 393, 1885, p. 43. 



Bulimus junceus, Gould, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., 1846, p. 191; 

 Exp. Exp. Shells, p. 76, fig. 87. Pfeiffer, Mus. Hel., ii, p. 220. 



Stenogyra juncea, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 340. Pease 

 Jour, de Conch., 1871, p. 93 ; Proc. Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 473. (Opeas) 

 Paetel, Cat. Conch., p. 104. Schmeltz, Cat. Mus. Godeff , v, p. 90. 

 Garrett, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1879, p. 19. 



Bulimus Walli, Cox, Cat. Aust. Land Shells, p. 24. Pfeiffer, 

 Mon. Hel., vi, p. 99. 



Stenogyra Upolensis, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 175. 

 {Obelisaus) Paetel, Cat. Conch., p. 104. Schmeltz, Cat. Mus. Godeff., 

 iv, p, 29. 



Bulimy^ Upolensis, Pfeiffer. Mon. Hel., iv, p. 100. 



Bulimus Panayensis, Pfeiffer, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1846, p. 33 ; Mon. 

 Hel., ii, p. 156; (Opeas) Vers., p. 156. Reeve, Conch. Icon., pi. 

 14, no. 76. (Opeas) Albers, Die Hel., p. 175. 



Subulina Panayensis, H. and A. Adams, Gen. Moll., ii, p. iii. 

 Semper, Phil. Land-Moll, ii, p. 137, pi. 8, fig. 15. 



Stenogyra Panayensis, (Opeas), Albers, Die Hel., ed. 2d., p. 265. 

 Martens, Ostas. Zool., ii, p. 83, (Siam), 376, pi. 22, fig. 8. (Opeas) 

 Paetel, Cat. Conch., p. 104. 



Bulimus diaphanus, Gassies (not of Pfeiffer), Jour, de Conch., 

 1859, p. 370. 



'Bulimus Souverbianus, Gassies, Faune Nouv. Caled., p. 52, pi. 2, 

 %. 5. Pfeiffer, Mon. Hel, vi., p. 98. 



Bulimus Artensis, Gassies, Jour, de Conch., 1866, p. 50. Pfeiffer, 

 Mon. Hel. vi, p. 98. 




132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Stenogyra novemgyrata, Mousson, Jour, de Concli., 1870, p. 12H. 

 {Subulina), Paetel, Cat. Conch., p. 104. Schmeltz, Cat. Mus. Godeff., 

 V, p. 90. 



Bulimus novemgyratus, PfeifFer, Mon. Hel., viii, p. 138. 



Stenogyra gxjrata, Mousson MS., in Mus. Godeffroy, 1885. 



This species, which is distributed over a larger geographical area 

 than any other species of land-shell, is diffused throughout all parts- 

 of Polynesia, the low coral islands as well as the more elevated 

 groups, and ranges throughout Melanesia, Micronesia, Australasia,. 

 Moluccas, Philippines, Guam, Ceylon, Siam, Cochin China, China, 

 and probably extends its range as far as the East coast of Africa. 



Since the publication of my paper on the Society Island land- 

 shells I have received from Mr. E. L. Layard, examples of Bulimus 

 Souverbianus and B. Artensis,hoth. of which are identical with Poly- 

 nesian specimens of S. Tuckeri. 



Through the kindness of Dr. Hungerford, of Hong Kong, I have 

 been enabled to compare Pfeifier's Bulimus Panayensis with B. 

 Tuckeri and cannot detect a single character to separate the two 

 species. 



I am strongly inclined to believe that the West Indian Stenogyra 

 subula, Pfr., is a form of the Polynesian S. Tuckeri, and was acci- 

 dentally imported with the Tahitian bread-fruit plants nearly 100 

 years ago. M. M. Crosse and Fischer (Jour, de Conch., 1863, p. 361), 

 record the West Indian Bulimus subula from Cochin China, and 

 give a good figure of the same, which is, undoubtedly, the ubiquitous 

 S. Tuckeri. 1 reproduce their remarks as follows : — 



"Cette espece provient de Saigon et de Fuyen-Moth, ou elle a ete 

 recueillie, par M. Michau, dans les fosses, dans la terre et sous les 

 herbes. II peut sembler tres-extraordinaire de retrouver en Cochin- 

 chine une espece des Antilles, qui n' a guere ete signalee jusqu' ici 

 qu'a Cuba, a la Jamaique et a Saint-Thomas. Pour ne conserver 

 aucun doute a son egard, nous avons cru devoir soumettre un indi- 

 vidu authentique a 1' examen de M. PfeifFer, qui a cree 1' espece. 

 II faut done accepter le fait, qui peut etre, au reste, seulement un 

 accident d' acclimatation : la petitesse et la legerete de la coquille 

 en question rendent cette supposition vraisemblable." 



I have lately received from Dr. Hungerford, several examples of 

 Stenogyras, labelled " Opeas subulata Pfr., Hong Kong" which 

 differed none from the Polynesian S. Tuckeri. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 133 



This species, which is chiefly confined to the low-lands near the 

 sea-shore, is found beneath decaying vegetation and under loose 

 stones. It may be easily recognized by its small size, subcylindri- 

 cal form, thin texture and pale horn color. The animal is pale 

 yellow. 



PARTULA, Ferussac. 

 P. Actor, Albers. 



Partulus actor, Albers, Die Hel., p. 187. 



Partula actor, Chem. ed. 2d., pi. 48, figs. 13, 14. Pfeiffer, Mon. 

 Hel, iii, p. 450. Hartman, Cat. Part., p. 12 ; Obs. Gen. Part. Bull. 

 Mus. Comp. ZooL, p. 179 ; Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1885, p. 

 220. 



Partula Recluziana, Petit, Jour, de Conch., 1850, p. 170,>pl. 7, 

 fig. 5. Pfeiffer, Mon. Hel., iii, p. 452. Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 

 1869, p. 339. Paetel, Cat. Conch., p. 104. Schmeltz, Cat. Mus. 

 Godeff"., V, p. 91. 



Partula zehrina, Gould, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., 1848. p. 196 ; 

 Exp. Exp. Shells, p. 82, fig. 89. Pfeiffer, Mon. Hel., iii., p. 450. 



This species, which is unknown to me, inhabits Tutuila. It may 

 be distinguished by its ovate-conical form, whitish or pale fulvous 

 color, ornamented with more or less flexuous paler lines. Length 19 

 mill. 



P. expansa, Pease. 



Partula expansa, Pease, Amer. Jour. Conch., 1871, p. 26, pi. 9, 

 fig. 3 ; Proc. Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 473 {extensa in err.). Pfeiffer, 

 Mon. Hel., viii, p. 203, Hartman. Cat. Part., p. 13 ; Obs. Gen. 

 Part., Bui. Mus. Comp. Zool., p. 182 ; Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 1885, p. 212. 



Partula zehrina, Mousson (not of Gould), Jour, de Conch., 1865, 

 p. 173, 1869, p. 339. 



This charming species, which is not uncommon on foliage at 

 Upolu, maybe distinguished by its white color and spiral opaque-white 

 interrupted lines. The spire is moderately produced, the last whorl 

 ventricose, obliquely produced and the base exhibits a large umbili- 

 cus. The peristome is broadly and flatly expanded. Length 19 

 mill. 



Mr. Pease, on the authority of Mr. Brazier cites Tutuila as its 

 habitat. 




134 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



P. canalis, Mousson. 



Partula canalis, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 172 ; 1869, p 

 337 (var. semilineata). Pfeiffer, Mon. Hel., vi, p. 155. Pease 

 Proc. Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 473. Paetel, Cat. Mus. Godeff., v, p. 91 



Partula Bulimoides, Hartman (not of Lesson), Cat. Gen. Part. 

 pp., 12, 13 with wood cut; Obs. Gen. Part. Mus. Comp. Zool., p 

 180. 



Partula cornica, Gould (part), Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., 1847, 

 p. 196. Hartman, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1885, p. 222. 



Not infrequent on foliage at Upolu. The variety was found hj 

 Dr. Graffe at Tutuila. 



A fine large sinistral species, 29 mill. long, elongate conical in 

 shape, of a fulvous-brown color with darker tinted spire. Aperture 

 large'; peristome whitish, broadly expanded, slightly reflexed and a 

 deep transverse sulcation marks the upper part of the columella lip. 



The fine spiral incised lines which are very distinct on the whole 

 surface of P. conica are only visible on the boundaries of the open 

 umbilicus and on the apical whorls. 

 P. abbreviata, Mousson. 



Partula abbreviata, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 339, pi. 

 14, fig. 7. Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 473. Paetel, Cat. Conch., 

 p. 104. Schmeltz Cat. Mus. Godeff., v, p. 91. Pfeiffer, Mon. Hel, 

 viii, p. 200. Hartman, Cat. Gen. Part., p. 13; Obs. Gen. Part,, 

 Bui. Mus. Comp. Zool, p. 179. 



This fine species which is unknown to me was found at Tutuila 

 by Dr. Graffe. 



An ovate, thin, pale horn coloi-ed species closely allied to but 

 much more abbreviated than P. conica. Prof. Mousson says it is 

 intermediate between the latter species and P. canalis. Length 21 

 mill. 



P. conica, Gould. 



Partula conica, Gould, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., 1847, p. 196 ; 

 Expl. Exp. Shells, p. 81. Pfeiffer, Mon. Hel., iii, p. 445. Mousson, 

 Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 171. Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 

 473. Paetel, Cat. Conch., p. 104. Schmeltz, Cat. Mus. Godeflf., 

 V, p. 91. Hartman, Proc Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1885, p. 222. 



Partula Upolensis, "Mousson" Schmeltz, Cat. Mus. Godeff., no. 1. 

 Paetel, Cat. Conch., p. 104. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 13.5 



Partula Bulimoides, Hartinan (not of Lesson), Cat. Gen. Part. p. 

 12 ; Obs. Gen. Part. Bui. Mus. Comp. Zool., p. 108. 



Not uncommon on foliage at Upolu and Tutuila. 



A dextral oblong-conical, luteous-horn colored species, smaller 

 than the sinistral P. canalis, with five convex whorls and rather 

 large aperture. Lip white and broadly expanded. Length 23 to 

 24 mill. 



P. Brazieri, Pease. 



Partula Brazieri, Pease, Amer. Jour. Conch., 1871, p. 27, pi. 9, 

 fig. 5 ; Proc. Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 473. Pfeiffer, Mon. Hel. viii, p. 

 194. 



"Tutuila" (Brazier). 



Mr. Pease received a single example of this species from Mr. 

 Brazier who says it was the only specimen found at the above men- 

 tioned locality. 



Dr. Hartman, who has examined the type specimen in the Mu- 

 seum of the Philadelphia Academy, refers it to the synonomy of P. 

 Caledonica a New Hebrides species. Judging from the figure of 

 Brazieri it certainly has a strong resemblance to the New Hebrides 

 Partula. I doubt it having been obtained at Tutuila. 



TORNATELLINA, Beck.. 

 T. oblonga, Pease. 



Tornatellina oblonga, Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1864, p. 673 ; 1871, 

 p. 473; Jour, de Conch., 1871, p. 93. Pfeiffer, Mon. Hel., vi, p. 

 264. Schmeltz, Cat. Mus. Godeff., v, p. 89. Garrett, Proc. Phil. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci., 1879, p. 21 ; Jour. Phil. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1881, p. 

 398. 



Tornatellina badllaris, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1871, p. 16, pi, 

 3, fig. 5. Schmeltz, Cat. Mus. Godeff., v, pp. 89, 90. Pfeiflfer, Mon. 

 Hel. viii, p. 316. 



Stenogyra (Subulina) badllaris, Paetel, Cat. Conch., p. 104. 



Inhabits all the groups from the Paumotu to the Viti Islands, 

 and was found by Dr. GraSe on the low coral islands of the Ellice's 

 group in "Central Pacific." On the ground in forests. 



This species may be distinguished by its imperforated base, slen- 

 der form, thin pellucid texture, fuscous-horn color, 6 whorls, and 

 nearly vertical simple columella. Length 4 2 mill. 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



'T. conica, Mousson. 



Tornatellina conica, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 342, pi. 

 14, fig. 8 ; 1871 (var. impressa), p. 16. Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc, 

 1861, p. 473. Pfeiffer, Mon. Hel, viii, p. 316. Garrett, Proc. Phil. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci., 1879, p. 21 ; Jour. Phil. Acad. Nat. Scl, 1881, p. 

 399 ; 1884, p. 81, Schmeltz, Cat. Mus. Godefil, v, p. 89. 



Cionella conica, Paetel, Cat. Conch, p. 116. 



Has the same range and station as the preceding species. 



It is more robust and lighter colored than ohlonga, the spire more 

 tapering, body-whorl larger, more compressed, parietal laminae 

 more prominent and the columella more twisted than in that species. 



STJCCINEA, Draparnaud. 

 S. putamen, Gould. 



Succinea jmtamen, Gould, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., 1846, p. 

 183 ; Exp. Exp. Shells, p. 13, fig. 16. Pfeiffer, Mus. Hel., ii, p. 

 522. Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 174; (Aviphibulima) 

 1869, p. 343. Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 472. (Amphib- 

 ulima) Paetel, Cat. Conch., p. 113. Schmeltz, Cat. Mus. Godeflf., v, 

 p. 89. 



Omalonyx putamen, H. and A. Adams, Gen. Moll., ii, p. 131. 



Common on foliage at Upolu. 



This fine large species may be distinguished by its depressed 

 ovate form, thin texture, fulvous-horn color, very short spire, \h 

 whorls, the last one with irregular, interrupted impressed striae. 

 Aperture very large, roundly-ovate, and the columella subplicated. 

 Length 17, Diam. 12* mill. 



S. crocata,Gould. 



Succinea crocata, Gould, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., 1846, p. 183; 

 Exp. Exp. Shells, p. 28, fig. 21. Pfeiffer, Mon. Hel., ii, p. 520. 

 Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 174; (Amphibulima) 1869, 

 p. 343. H. and A. Adams, Gen. Moll., ii, p. 128. Paetel, Cat. 

 Conch., p. 113. Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc. 1871, p. 472. Schmeltz, 

 Cat. Mus. Godeff:,v, p. 89. 



Abundant at Upolu. 



A large species of a rather thin texture, ovate-globose form, ful- 

 vous-horn color, 2 J whorls, the last one very large, usually with 

 revolving impressed lines. Spire short. Length 19, diam. 13 mill. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 137 



S. modesta, Gould. 



Succinea modesta, Gould, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., 1846, p 

 186 ; Exp. Exp. Shells, p. 23, fig. 24. Pfeiffer, Mon. Hel, ii, p. 521 

 Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 174; (AmphibuUma) 1869, p 

 343. H. and A. Adams, Gen. Moll, ii, p. 129. Pease, Proc. Zool 

 Soc, 1871, p. 472. (Brachyspira) Paetel, Cat. Conch., p. 113 

 Schmeltz, Cat. Mus. Godeff., v, p. 89 



Succinea Cheynei, Dohrn, MS. 



I found this species abundant on the ground in a forest at Upolu. 



Its small size (9 mill, long), ovate form, thin texture, luteous- 

 horn color, moderate spire, and 3 whorls will readily distinguish it. 



S. Manua, Gould. 



Succinea Manua, Gould, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., 1846, p. 185 ; 

 Exp. Exp. Shells, p. 25, fig. 23. Pfeifier, Mon. Hel., ii, p. 520. H. 

 and A. Adams, Gen. Moll., ii, p. 129. Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1871, 

 p. 472. 



Said to inhabit Manua Island. 



Gould says it is a small, ovate, ventricose, thin, straw-colored 

 species, with an obtuse spire, 2k whorls, deep suture and marked by 

 longitudinal strise and transverse rugosities. Length 10 mill. 



VERTIGO, Mliller. 

 V. pediculus, Shuttleworth. 



Pupa pediculus, Shuttleworth, Bern. Mitth. 1852, j). 296. PfeiflTeiv 

 Mon. Hel., iii, p. 557. Schmeltz, Cat. Mus. Godefi*., v. 89. Mousson 

 (var. Samoensis), Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 175. 



Vertigo pediculus, Pfeiffer, Vers., p. 177. (Alcea) H. and A. 

 Adams, Gen. Moll., ii, p. 172. Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 

 341. Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1871, pp. 463, 474. Garrett, Proc 

 Phil. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1879, p. 19 ; Jour. Phil. Acad. Nat. Sci., 

 1881, p. 400. 



Pupa Samoensis, "Mss." Schmeltz, Cat. Mus. Godeff"., iv. p. 108. 

 (Sphyradiuvi) Paetel, Cat. Conch, p. 108. 



Pupa nitens. Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1860, p. 439. Pfeiffer, Mou. 

 Hel., vi, p. 335. 



Vertigo nitens. Pease, Proc Zool. Soc, 1871, pp. 463, 474. 



Pupa hyalina, "Zelebor," Pfeiffer. Mon. Hel., vi, p. 329. 



Vertigo hyalina, Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 474. 



Vertigo nacca, Gould, Proc. Bost. Soc, Nat. Hist., 1862, p. 280 ; 

 Otia Conch., p. 237, Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1871, pp. 463, 474. 



Pupa nacca, Pfeiffer, Mon. Hel., vi, p. 330. 

 10 




138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Common to all the Polynesian groups. 



Its minute size, ovate-oblong shape, hyaline texture, obtuse spire, 

 rounded aperture, and the thin slightly expanded lip will readily 

 distinguish it. There are usually 5 denticles in the aj)erture. 

 V. tantilla, Gould. 



Pupa ( Vertigo) tantilla, Gould, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., 1847, 

 p. 197, Pfeiffer, Mon. Hel., iii, p. 557. ( Vertigo) Mousson, Jour, de 

 Concli., 1870, p. 127. ( Vertigo) Schmeltz, Cat. Mus. Godeff., iv, p. 

 69. (Piipinella) Paetel, Cat. Conch., p. 108. 



Vertigo tantilla, Gould, Exp. Exp. Shells, p. 92, fig. 103. (Alcea) 

 H. and A. Adams, Gen. Moll., iii, p. 172. Pease. Proc. Zool. Soc, 

 1871, pp. 460, 463, 474. Garrett, Jour. Phil. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1881, 

 p. 400. 



Pupa pleurophora, Shuttleworth, Bern. Mittheil., 1852, p. 296. 

 Pfeiffer, Mon. Hoi., iii, p. 560. 



Vertigo pleurophora, Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 474. 



Pupa Dunkeri, "Zelebor" Pfeiffer, Mon. Hel., vi, p. 333. 



Vertigo Dunkeri, Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 474. 



Vertigo armata, Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1871, pp. 461, 474. 



Pupa armata, Pfeiffer, Mon. Hel., viii, p. 407. 



Vertigo dentlfera, Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1871, pp. 462, 474. 



Pupa dentifera, Pfeiffer, Mon. Hel., viii, p. 408. 



Ranges from the Society to the Viti Islands. This and the pre- 

 oeding species are found beneath rotten wood, under stones and 

 amongst decaying leaves. 



In shape it varies from an abbreviate-ovate to oblong-oval, and 

 they vary to a greater or less degree in the relative proportion of 

 the whorls. Color pale corneous under a brownish more or less 

 distinctly shagreened epidermis, Avhich in j^erfect examples is fur- 

 nished with oblique membranous riblets. The last whorl behind 

 the peristome is frequently bisulcate. 



MELAMPUS, Montfort. 

 M. luteus, Quoy aiul Uaimanl. 



Auricula lutea, Quoy and Gaimard, Voy. Astrol., ii, p. 163, pi. 

 6, figs. 25-27. Deshayes, Lam. Hist., viii., p. 338. Kuster, Auric, 

 p. 39, pi. 6, figs. 1-3. Mousson, Jav. Moll., p. 47, pi. 5, fig. 6. 



Conovulus luteus, Anton, Verz., p. 48. 



Melampus luteus, Beck, Ind., p. 106. M. E. Gray, Figs. Moll. 

 Anim., pi. 306, fig. 5, H. and A. Adams, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1854, p. 




1887.] NATURAL fSCIEXCES OF nilLADELPHIA. 139 



10; Gen. Moll., ii, p. 243. PfeifFer, Syn. Auric, no. 30; Mon. Auric, 

 i, p. 36. Mcirch; Cat. Yold., p. 38. Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, 

 p. 346. Martens and Langk. Don. Bism., p. 5.5. Gassies, Faun. 

 Nouv. Caled., p. 02. Pease, Jour, de Conch., 1871, p. 93 ; Proc. 

 Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 477. Paetel, Cat. Conch., p. 114. Schmeltz, Cat. 

 Mus. Godeff'., V, p. 88. Garrett, Proc. Phil. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1879, 

 p. 28 . Jour. Phil. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1881, p. 402. 



Abundant just above high-water mark and ranges from the 

 Gambier Islands to the East Indies. 



This species may be easily recognized by its large size (18 mill.) 

 and uniform luteous color. 



M. fasciatus, Deshayes. 



Auricula faseiata, Deshayes, Encycl. Meth., ii, p. 90; Lam. Hist., 

 viii, p. 337. Kuster, Auric, pi. a, figs. 2, 3. Mousson, Jav. Moll., p. 

 4fi, pi. 5, figs. 28-29. 



I Melampus fasciatus, Beck, Ind. Moll., p. 107. (Tralia) H. and A. 

 Adams, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1854, p. ii. Pfeiffer, Syn. Auric, no. 33 ; 

 Mon. Auric, i, p. 38. Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 348. 

 Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 477. Martens and Langk., Don. 

 Bism., p. 55. Paetel, Cat. Conch., p. 114. Schmeltz, Cat. Mus. Godeff',, 

 V, p. 88. Garrett, Jour. Phil. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1881, p. 402. 



Conovulus fasciatus, Griffith, Cuv. Anim. King., pi. 27, fig. 

 13. Anton, Verz., pi. 48. Guerin, Icon. Moll., pi. 17, pi. 7, fig. 8. 



Tralia (Pira) faseiata, H. and A. Adams, Gen. Moll., ii, p. 240. 



Auricula trifascinta, Kuster, Auric, p. 38, pi. 5, figs. 15-17. 



Melampus trifasciatus, Pfeiffer, Syn. Aurica., no. 38 ; Mon. Auric, 

 i. p. 43, H. and A. Adams, Gen. Moll., ii, p. 243. Gassies, Faun. 

 Nouv. Caled., p. 63, Cox, "Exchange List," p. 33. Brazier, Quar. 

 Jour. Conch., i, p. 274. 



Auricula monile, Quoy and Gaimard, Voy. Astrol., ii, p. 166, pi. 

 13, figs. 28-33. Potiez and Michaud, Gal. Douai., i, p. 208. Reeve, 

 Conch. Syst., ii, pi. 187, fig. 8. 



Cassidula f monile, M. E. Gray, Figs. Moll. Anim., p. 306, figs. 10- 

 11. (Ex. Q. and G.) 



This, like the preceding species lives just above high-water mark 

 and has the same extensive geograpliical range. 



It is subject to considerable variation in form, color and fasciatiou. 

 The type varies from bluish-white to luteous and girdled by four to 

 six narrow chestnut bands. Varieties of a uniform bluish-white, 

 corneous, brownish or orange-brown are not infrequent, as well as 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



one of an orange-brown with three chestnut bands. The spire is 

 marked with minute radiating grooves which are very faintly ex- 

 pressed or very conspicuous, sometimes covering the whole spire or 

 only visible at the apex. Length 11 to 14 mill. 



M. parvulus, Nuttall. 



Melampus parvulus, Nuttall, MS., Pfeiffer, Syn. Auric, no. 11 ; 

 Mon. Auric, p. 24. H. and A. Adams, Gen. Moll, ii, p. 243. Pease, 

 Proc Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 477. Martens and Langk. Don. Bism., p. 

 56, pi. 3. fig. 10. Paetel, Cat. Conch., p. 114. Brazier, Quar, Jour. 

 Conch., i, p. 247. 



Common on the margins of mangrove swamps. Also common in 

 the Tonga and Yiti Islands. Mr. Nuttall obtained the type speci- 

 mens at the Sandwich Islands. It not only inhabits New Caledonia 

 but ranges west as far as Torres' Strait, where it was found by Mr. 

 Brazier. 



The Samoa specimens which are a little smaller than Nuttall'^ 

 type, differ none from the latter except having one or two more 

 denticles or plicae on the parietal region, and the base is more dis- 

 tinctly, impressly striated. It may be recognized by its ovate shape, 

 smooth shining surface, dark-chestnut, or olive brown color, short 

 convexly conoid sj^ire and mucronated apex. On the lower portion 

 of the parietal region may be observed two approximating folds, the 

 lower one the smaller and occasionally wanting. There are usually 

 one or two small denticles above, and the palate has 5 to 7 laminae. 

 The columellar fold is continuous with the basal portion of the per- 

 istome. Length 7-9 mill. 



H. Tongaensis, Mousson. 



Melampus Tongaensis, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1871, p. 22, pi. 

 3, fig. 8. Schmeltz, Cat. Mus. Godeff"., v, p. 88. Pfeifl!er, Mon. Pneura. 

 (Auric), iv, p. 316. 



A few examples found in the same station as the preceding species. 

 Common also in the Tonga and Viti Islands. 



Very closely allied to, and perhaps only a form of M. parvulus. 

 It is about the same size and color, but is a little more oblong and 

 the spire is more produced. The fold and dentition is the same in 

 the two species. 



M. semisulcatus, Mousson. 



Melampus semisulcatus, Mousson, Jour, de Conch,, 1869, p. 347, 

 pi. 15, fig. 2, Paetel, Cat. Conch., p. 114. Schmeltz, Cat. Mus. GodefF., 




1><87.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



V, p. 88. Pfeiffer, Mon. Pneum. (Auric), iv, p. 318. Pease, Proc. 

 Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 477. 



Common on the margins of mangrove swamps. Occurs also in 

 tlie Tonga and Viti Islands. 



This species is of an oblong j^ear-shape, uniform cinnamon color, 

 spire short, usually eroded, spirally grooved, the grooves more or 

 less evanescent on the middle of the body-whorl. There are three 

 folds on the parietal region and usually two lamintie in the palate. 

 Length 11 mill. 



M. striatus, Pease. 



Melanipus striatus, Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1861, p. 244 ; 1871, p. 

 477. Pfeiffer, Mon. Pneum. (Auric), iv, p. 311. Schmeltz, Cat. Mus. 

 Goileff., V, p. 88. 



Melampus Montrouzleri, Souverbie, Jour, de Conch., 1866, p. 148, 

 pi. 6, fig. 1, la. Pfeiffer, Mon. Pneum. (Auric), iv, p. 312. 



Melampus ornatus, Mousson, Jour, de Conch,, 1871, p. 21, pi. 3, 

 fig. 7. Pfeiffer, Mon. Pneum. (Auric), iv, p. 312. 



A few examples found on the margins of SAvamps at Upolu. It 

 also inhabits the Society, Tonga and Viti Islands as well as New 

 Caledonia. 



It may be distinguished by its oblong-ovate form, brownish-cor- 

 neous, chestnut-brown or greenish-brown color, mucronated spire, 8 

 whorls, marked by closely-set transverse impressed lines, and the 

 upper half with small longitudinal plications which give that part 

 of the shell a granulated appearance. The transverse lines are 

 frequently evanescent on the middle of the body-wdiorl. There are 

 from two to three folds on the parietal region, the upper one small 

 and granuliform. There may be observed one to three lamelliform 

 plications in the palate, and, sometimes Avith several raised white 

 parallel striie. Length 9-10 mill. 



M. castaneus, Muhlfcld. 



Voluta castanea, Muhlfeld, Mag. Ges. Nat. Fr. Berl, vii, 1818, p. 

 4,pi. l,fig. 2. 



Auricula castanea, Philippi, Zeits. Malak. 1851, p. 54. 



Melampus castaneus, Pfeiffer, Mon. Auric, p. 30. Mousson, Jour, 

 de Conch., 1869, p. 349. 



Prof. Mousson records this species in his Samoan list. It did not 

 occur to mv notice. 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



LAIMODONTA, Xuttall. 

 L. Layardi, H. and A. Adams. 



Ophicardelus Layardi (Laimodonta'), H. and A. Adams, Proc. 

 Zool. Soc, 1854, p. 35. 



Laimodonta Layardi, H. aud A. Adams, Geu. Moll., ii, p. 246. 



Melampus Layardi, Pfeiffer, Syn. Auric, no. 48 ; Mon. Auric, p. 

 51. Gassies, Faun. Nouv. Caled., p. 61, pi. 7, fig. 7. Tennent's Cey- 

 lon, i, p. 239. Cox, "Exchange List," p. 33. H. Nevill, Enum. Hel 

 etc., Ceylon, 1871, p. 4. 



Laimodonta conica. Pease, Proc Zool. Soc, 1862, p. 242 ; Amer. 

 Jour. Conch., 1868, p. 101, pi. 12, fig. 15; Jour. deConch., 1871. 

 pp. 93, 94. Proc, Zool. Soc, 1871. pp. 470, 477. Schmeltz, Cat. Mus. 

 GodefF., V, p. 81. Garrett, Jour. Phil. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1881, p. 403. 



Laemodonta conica, Martens and Langk., Don. Bism., p. 57, pi. 3, 

 fig. 13. 



Laimodonta Anaaends, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 63, 

 pi. 5, fig.l. 



Plecotrema Anaaensis, Paetel, Cat. Conch., p. 114. 



Melampus conicus, Pfeiffer, Mon. Pneum. (Auric), iv, p. 319. 



"/" Melampus Anaaensis, PfeiflTer, 1. c, p. 320. 



A few beach-worn specimens found at Uj^olu. Ranges from the 

 Paumotu Islands to the East Indies. 



This species is acuminately-ovate, rather solid, sj^irally striated by 

 incised lines, spire rather long, acute ; color chestnut-brown, with 

 one or two transverse whitish bands. Parietal region with two- 

 plaits, one on the columella and one or two in the palate. 



Length 6 to 8} mill. 



CASSIDULA, Ferussac. 

 C. crassiuscula, Mousson. 



Cassidida crassiuscula, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 343, 

 pi. 15, fig. 1. Paetel, Cat. Conch., p. 114. Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc, 

 1871, p. 477. Schmeltz, Cat. Mus. Godeff"., v, p. 88. Pfeiffer, Mon. 

 Pneum. (Auric), iv, p. 352. 



Auricula (Cassidida) crassiuscula, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 

 1871, p. 191. 



Cassidula nucleus, Gassies, (Martyn ?), Faun. Nouv. Caled., p. 71, 

 pi. 3, fig. 9. 



Common on the mud in mangrove swamps, and inhabits the 

 Tonga, Viti and the islands in Melanesia. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 143 



A thick, broadly ovate, imperforate species, with fine spiral im- 

 pressed stritB and short conical spire. Color different shades of 

 chestnnt-brown, white, corneons, fulvous, frequently with from one 

 to four transverse bauds on the body-whorl, and more rarely with 

 a sutural livid band. Aperture pale fulvous, brownish or white, 

 and the lip light fulvous or white. Length 10 to 16 mill, 



C. paludosa, (lanett. 



Ophicardelus jmludosus, Garrett, Amer. Jour. Conch., 1872, p. 

 220, pi. 19, fig. 3. 



Cassiduki paludosa, Paetel, Cat. Conch., p. 114. 



Plecotrema paludosa, Schnieltz, Cat. Mus. Godeff., v, p. 87. 



Melampus paludosus, Pfeiffer, Mon. Pneum. (Auric), iv, p. 327. 



A few specimens found in mangrove swamps at Upolu. Com- 

 mon in the Viti group. 



A small, solid, ovate, whitish, yellowish-horn colored, or chestnut- 

 brown species, with fine, spiral, incised punctured lines and carin- 

 ated base. Spire convexly conical and more produced than in the 

 preceding species. Length 8 to 10 mill. 



PYTHIA, Bolten. 



P. tortuosa, Mousson. 



Pythia tortuosa, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1871, p. 19, pi. 3, fig. 

 6. Paetel, Cat. Conch., p. 114. .Schnieltz, Cat. Mus. Godefi'., v, p. 87. 

 Pfeiffer, Mon. Pneum. (Auric), iv, p. 339. Nevill, List. Moll. Ind. 

 Mus., p. 221. Cox, Proc Lin. 8oc. N. 8. W., 1881, p. 618. 



Common on the margins of mangrove sAvamps at Upolu. Dr. 

 Graff^e collected examples at Futuna and Wallis Island in the 

 northern part of the Tonga group. 



This species which ranges from 18 to 25 mill, in length, is luteou.s 

 horn-color, with small irregular chestnut-brown maculations ; some- 

 times uniform chestnut-black or corneous, and the varices are spot- 

 ted with dark chestnut and white. The base is either imperforated 

 or riinate. The aperture is luteous, rarely brownish, and the peri- 

 stome is usually mottled. The columellar fold is generally contin- 

 uous with the basal portion of the peristome, and the lower parietal 

 plait is simple. 



P. Savaiensis, Mousson. 



Pythia. pautherina, A. Adams, var. Uveana, Mousson, Jour, de 

 Conch., 1865, j). 177. Schmeltz, Cat. Mus. Godeff., iii, p. 28. Pease, 

 Proc. Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 477. Paetal, Cat. Conch., p. 114. Pfeiffer, 




144 PROCKEDINGH OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Mon. Pueum. (Auric), iv, p. 348. Cox, Proc. Lin. Soc, N. S. W., 

 1881, p. 607. 



Pythia Savaiensis, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 345 ; 1870, 

 p. 138. Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 477. Sclimeltz, Cat. Mus. 

 GodefF,, V, p. 87. Pfeiffer, Mon. Pneum. (Auric), iv, p. 341. Cox. 

 Proc Lin. Soc N. 8. W., 1881, p. 613. Nevill, List, Moll. Ind. Mus. 

 p. 223. 



This species was found at Savaii by Dr. GriifFe. I gathered 

 numerous examples at Wallis Island and in the Viti group. In 

 forests near the sea-shore. 



A solid, ovate, umbilicated (rarely imperforate), species 21 to 28 

 mill, long, of a corneous or yellowish-horn color, mottled with chest- 

 nut, rarely uniform light or dark chestnut and the varices spotted 

 with white. Aperture luteous. 



A larger and more solid shell than the preceding species. 



AURICULA, Lamarck. 

 A. subula, Qiiuy and Gaiinard. 



Auricala subida, Quoy and Gaimard, Voy. Astrol., ii, p. 171, pi. 

 13, figs. 39, 40. Deshayes, Lam. Hist., viii, p. 334. Kuster, Auric, 

 p. 53, pi. 8, figs. 9, 10. Jay, Cat. Shells, 1850, p. 265. A. Adams and 

 Reeve, Voy. Samarang, p. 55, pi. 14, fig. 15, with animal. Pfeiffer, 

 Auric, no. 147 ; Mon. Auric, i, p. 141. Gassies, Faun. Nouv. Caled., 

 p. 69. Paetel, Cat. Conch., p. 115. 



Pythia subvla, Beck, Ind. Moll., p. 104. 



Ellobium subula, H. and A. Adams, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1854, p. 8 . 

 Gen. Moll., ii, p. 237. 



Auricula elonyata, "Parreyss" Kuster, Auric, p. 53, pi. 8, figs. 6- 

 9. Jay, Cat. Shells, 1850, p. 264. Pfeifter, Auric, no. 146 ; Mon. 

 Auric, i, p. 140. Morelet, Ser. Conch., p. 93. Mousson, Jour, de 

 Conch., 1871, p. 18. Paetel, Cat. Conch., p. 115. Schmeltz, Cat. 

 Mus. Godeff, v, p. 88. 



Auricula Buddii, Parreyss, MS. 



Ellobium clonr/ainm, H. and. A. Adams, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1854, p. 

 9 ; Gen. Moll, ii, ]). 237. 



Ellobium Oparicum, H. and A. Adams, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1854, p. 

 9 ; Gen. Moll., ii, p. 237. 



Auricula Oparica, Pfeiffer, Mon. Auric, i p. 139 ; Syn. Auric, 

 no. 46 ; Novit. Conch., i, p. 28, pi. 7, figs. 14-16. 



Auriculus subulus, Pfeiffer, Mon. Pneum. (Auric), iv, p. 360. 



Auriculus elongahis, Pfeiffer, 1. c. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 145 



Arieulus Opariciis, Pfeiffer, 1. c. 



A few small examples found on the margin of a swamp at Upolu. 

 It occurs in the Tonga and Viti Islands and i-anges west as far a.s 

 the East Indies. Morelet records it from the island of Mauritius. 



A small species, 9 to 16 mill, long, of a slender fusiform shape, 

 smooth, shining surface, acute conical spire (which is frequently 

 truncated by erosion); color white beneatli an epidermis wliich va- 

 ries from pale olivaceous-horn color to chestnut-black. The body 

 whorl is narrow, usually longer than the spire, attenuated or round- 

 ed at the base, and tlie columella is furnished witli two, small, ap- 

 proximating, oblique folds. A conn)ressed subtninsverse plait on 

 the lower part of the parietal region. 



S. semisculpta, H. and A. Adaint;. 



Ellobium semisculptum, H. and A. Adams, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1 854, 

 p. 9; Gen. Moll., ii, p. 287. 



Auricula mmisculpta, Pfeiffer, Syn. Auric, no. lo9 ; Mon. Auric, 

 i, p. 136; Novit, Conch., i, p. .39. pi. 10, figs. 7-9. Gassies, Faun. 

 Nouv. Caled., p. 70, pi. 3, fig. 11. .Schmeltz, (Vat. ]\Ius. Godeff., v, 

 p. 88. 



Auriculus seinisculptus, Pfeiffer, Mon. Pneum. (Auric), iv, p. 359. 



A few dead specimens of small size found on the margin of a 

 mangrove swamp at Upolu. It is also common at Wallis Island 

 and very abundant and of large size at the Viti group, where they 

 were found buried in rotten logs in swamps. 



This species varies considerably in shape, thickness, and in size, 

 ranging from 12 to 30 mill, in length. The surface is shining, longi- 

 tudinally striated, and the upper poitions of the whorls are sculp- 

 tured by crowded spiral rows of -minute granules, which, in the 

 iidult sometimes cover the whole surface of the body-whorl. The 

 shape of the shell varies from oblong-ovate to oblong-turreted, the 

 spire more or less produced, and the color is white beneath a ful- 

 vous-yellow or yellowish-horn colored epidermis. The parietal re- 

 gion exhibits a prominent, compressed, ol)lique fold and just beneath 

 is a smaller and more vertical one on the columella. 



TRUNCATELLA, Ri-sso. 

 T. valida, Pfeiffer. 



Truncutella valida, Pfeiller, Zeit. Malak., 1846, p. 182; Mon. 

 Auric, (appendix), i, jx 184. Jay, Cat. Shells, 1854, p. 253. Kuster, 

 Mon., p. 11, pi. 2, figs. 7,8, 19-21,23. H.andA. Adams, Gen. Moll., 




146 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



ii, p. 311. Martens, Ostas. Zool, ii, p. 262, Paetel, Cat. Conch., p. 

 118. Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 477. 



Trnncatella Vitiana, Gould, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., 1847, p. 

 208 ; Exp. Exp. Shells, p. 109, fig. 126 ; Otia, Conch., p. 40. H. 

 and A. Adams, Gen. Moll, ii, p. 6. Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, 

 p. 356; 1870, p. 195. Paetel, Cat. Conch., p. 118. Schmeltz, Cat. 

 Mus. Godeff., v, p. 104. 



TruHcatella Vitiaoea, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 185. 



Taheitia Vitiana, Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 477. 



Trimcatella consjyloua, "Bronn," Pfeiffer, Mon. Auric, (appendix), 

 i, p. 184. Paetel, Cat. Cbnch., p. 118. Layard, Cat. Land and Fresh- 

 water Shells, N. Caled., p. 1. 



Common just above high-water mark in sheltered places. It 

 occurs also in Tonga, Ellis and Viti groups, and is diffused through- 

 out Melanesia and the East India Islands. 



A solid, slightly tapering, cylindrical shell, of a white, luteous, 

 corneous, or ruddy corneous color, with 4^ slightly convex persist- 

 ent whorls. The sculpture consists of nearly erect, obtuse ribs (25 

 to 35), on the body Avhorl. Peristome slightly auriculate at the 

 suture. Length 6 to 8 mill. 



MOUSSONIA, 0. Semper. 

 M. typica, 0. Semper. 



Pupa problematica, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 176. 



Moussonia typica, O. Semper, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 296. 

 Crosse, Jour, de Conch., 1866, p, 354, pi, 10, fig, 9, Pease, Proc, 

 Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 476, Paetel, Cat, Conch,, p. 118, Schmeltz, Cat, 

 Mus, Godeff,, v,p, 102, 



Paxillus (Moussonia) typica, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, }>, 

 355, 



Diplommatina problematica (Moussonia), Stoliczka, Jour, Asiat, 

 Soc, 1871, p, 156, (Moussonia), Pfeiffer, Mon, Pneum, iv, p, 92. 



A minute conical, dark colored species with turreted spire, 7 ob- 

 liquely costulate whorls and small, rounded aperture and a columella 

 tooth. 



Found at Upolu by Dr, Griiffe, 



OSTODES, Gould. 

 0. tiara. Gould. 



Cyclostoma tiara, Gould, Proc. Bost, Soc, Nat, Hist., 1847, p. 

 204 ; Exp, Exp, Shells, p, 101, fig, 116, 




18^7.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 147 



Cydophorustiara,'P{eiffeY, ConsTp.Cycloii., no. 116; Mou. Pneum., 

 i, p. 84. Gray, Cat. Phan., p. 58. Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, 

 p. 179; (Ostodes) 1869, p. 350. Paetel, Cat. Conch., p. 120. 



Ostodes tiara, Gould, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., 1862, p. 240. 

 Pease, Proc. Zool. 8oc., 1871, ]). 475. 



Not uncommon at Upolu, where it was found at an altitude of 

 "1.000 metres" by Dr. Gratfe. 



Its large size (18 to 20 mill, in diam.), depressed turbinate form, 

 dull greyish-horn color beneath a luteous, or horn-colored epider- 

 mis, 5 convex whorls, the last one subcarinated, and the fine spiral 

 lirations will readily distinguish it. 

 0. strigatus, Gould. 



Cyelostoma strigatum, Gould, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., 1847, p. 

 204; Exp. Exp. Shells, p. 102, fig. 117. Chemn. ed. 2d. p. 302, pi. 

 40, figs. 15, 16. 



Cydophorus drlgatus, Pfeifter, Consp. Cyclos., uo. 115 ; Mon. 

 Pneum., i, p. 83. Gray, Cat. Phan., p. 58. H. and A. Adams, Gen. 

 Moll., ii, p. 280. Reeve, Conch. Icon., pi. 14, fig. 58. Mousson, Jour, 

 de Conch., 1865, p. 179 ; ( Ostodes), 1869, p. 350. Paetel, Cat. Conch., 

 p. 120. Schmeltz, Cat. Mus. Godeff., v, p. 99. 



Ostodes strigatus, Gould, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist. 1861, p. 

 283. 



Cydostoma plicatum, Gould, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., 1847, p. 

 205 ; Exp. Exp. Shells, p. 103, fig. 118. 



Cydophoriis plicatus, Pfeifier, Consp. Cyclos., no. 114 ; Mon. 

 Pneum., iv, p. 115. Reeve, Conch. Icon., pi, 14, fig. 58. (Ostodes) 

 Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 350. 



Ostodes plicatus, Gould, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., 1861, p. 283. 

 Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 475. 



Cydostoma Apice, Recluz, Jour, de Conch., 1851, p. 213, pi. 6, 

 figs. 10, 10. 



Cydophorus Apice, Pfeifter, Mon. Pneum., i, p. 83. Gray, Cat. 

 Phan., p. 57. H. and A. Adams, Gen. Moll, ii, p. 279. Paetel, Cat. 

 Conch., p. 119. 



Cydostoma jmlveride^itmn, Philippi, Chemnitz, ed. 2d. p. 301, pi 

 40, figs. 13, 14. 



Cydophorus jmlverulentus, Pfeifier, C'onsp. Cycles., no. 114. 



Cydostoma alhida, Hombron and Jacquinot, Voy. Pol. Sud. Zool, 

 V, p. 50, pi 12, figs. 25-28. 




148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Cyclophorus ? albidus, Pfeiffer, Mon. Pneum., ii, p. 60. 



Abundant beneath decaying vegetation at Upolu, Tutuila and 

 Savaii. 



This variable species may be recognized by its rude solid texture, 

 more or less globose form, cinereous, or ruddy-horn color, 5 convex 

 whorls, the last one rounded and moi'e or less distinctly angulated on 

 the margin of the moderate umbilicus. The sculpture consists of 

 s[)iral, irregular, elevated lines which are frequently evanescent on 

 the last whorl, and in the form known as plicahis, Gld., have the 

 whorls transversely obliquel}^ plicated. The spire is more or less 

 elevated. The diameter varies from 8 to 12 mill. 

 0. Upolensis, Mousson. 



Cyclophorus Upolensis, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 180 ; 

 (Osfodes) 1869, p. 352. Paetel, Cat. Conch., p. 120. Pfeiffer, Mon. 

 Pneum., iv, p. 115. Schmeltz, Cat. Mus. Godeff., v, p. 99, 



Ostodes Upolensis, Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 475. 



Common beneath decaying vegetation at Upolu. 



A small, thin, whitish, depressed, conoid species with 42 convex 

 whorls, the last one rounded or slightly angulated, and all with 

 spiral elevated lines ; sometimes the whorls are rudely plicated. 

 The umbilicus is large and the margin is angulated. 



Diam. 7i mill. 



0. adjunctus, Mousson. 



CyclophovKs (Ostodes) adjunctus, Mousson, Jour, de Conch,, 

 1869, p, 351, pi. 14, fig. 9. Pfeiffer, Mon. Pneum., iv, p. 114. 



Ostodes adjunctus, Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 475. 



Found at Tutuila by Dr. Griiffe . 



This species is widely umbilicated, rather solid, depressly-conical, 

 whitish, with 4 J slightly convex whorls, the last one carinated, and 

 all with spiral elevated lines. Diam. 9 mill. 

 0. ^Brazieri, Cox. 



Oyclostoma Brazieri, Cox, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1870, p. 85. 



Cyclot us f Brazier i, Pfeiffer, Mon. Pneum., iv, p. 36. 



This species, which is unknown to me, was found by Mr, Brazier 

 at Upolu. 



The following is Cox's description as given by Mr. Pfeiffer : — 



"Testa pyramidata ; spira acuta et elevata, apice rosea , anfr, 5, 

 rotundati, sub lent& subtilissima spiraliter striati ; saturate cinna- 

 momia ; sutura profunda ; umbilicus augustus et profundus ; aper- 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 149 



tura circularis ; perist. simplex vix incrassatum. Operculum soli- 

 dum extus perconcavum, marginibus anfraetuum prominentibus. 

 Lat. 0.13, alt. 16 poll." 



Genus OMPHALOTROPIS, Pfciffer. 



0. conidea, Mousson. 



Omphalotropis conoidea, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 182. 

 Pease. Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 146; Proc. Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 

 476. Paetel, Cat. Conch., p. 124. Schmeltz, Cat. Mus. Godeff., v, p. 

 101. 



Realia {Omphalotropis) conoidea, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, 

 p. 353 (et var. angidosa) ; 1871, p. 27. Pfeiffer, Mon. Pneum., iv, 

 p. 222. 



I am not acquainted with this species, which was found at Upolu 

 by Dr. Graffe, and the variety at Savaii. He found it also at 

 Wallis Island. 



An ovate conical species, 7 mill, long, with 6i rather flattened 

 whorls, the last one large, ovately-rounded, perforated, and the per- 

 foration margined by a filiform keel. Moussson says "epidermide 

 subdedituta, punctis et lineis fulguratis saepe reticularis malleata." 

 In his remarks (Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 146) he says "Les jeunes 

 individus, d'un rouge grisatre et pen fulgures, sont, en effet, parfai- 

 tement lisses ; mais bientot on decouvre des points d'une coloration 

 blanchatre et mate, qui interrompent les parties polies et se dis- 

 posent en lignes anguleuses, qui finissent par dominer a I'age ou 

 r 6piderme est entirement detruit." 



His variety angulata has the last whorl angular, 



0. bilirata, Mousson. 



Omphalotropis bilirata, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 184, 

 pi. 14, fig. 13. Pease, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 146 ; Proc. Zool. 

 Soc, 1871, p. 476. 



Realia {Omphalotropis') bilirata, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, 

 p. 146 (var. elongata); 1871, p. 29. Pfeiffer, Mou. Pneum., iv, p. 

 218. 



More rare than the preceding species and inhabits Upolu and 

 Savaii, as well as Wallis Island in the Tonga group. 



A perforated, elongate-conical, pale corneous species with an in- 

 cised sutural line which is margined above with a filiform keel. 

 Whorls 6, flattened, the last one angulated and bicarinated with a 

 periphery and basal thread-like keel. Length 5'. mill. 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



0. bifilaris, Mousson. 



Omphalotropis bifilaris, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 183. 

 Pease, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 146 ; Proc, Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 

 476. Paetel, Cat. Conch., p. 124. Schmcltz, Cat. Mus. Godeff., v, p. 

 101. 



Realia ( Omphalotropis) bifilaris, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, 

 p. 353 (var. angusta); 1871, p. 29. PfeifFer, Mon. Pneum., iv, p. 

 232. 



Not infrequent at Upoki and Tutuila ; found also at the Tonga 

 group. Mousson's variety angusta which inhabits the Viti Islands 

 is probably a distinct species. 



The type is a perforated, conical shell, 6 if mill, long, with a fuga- 

 ceous fuscous epidermis and rounded whorls, the last one with a 

 periphery and basal filiform keel. 



HELICINA., Lamarck. 

 H. fulgora, (JouUl. 



Helicina fulgora, Gould, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., 1847, p. 201; 

 Exp. Exp. Shells, p. 95, fig. 106. Pfeiffer, Mon. Pneum., i, p. 401. 

 Gray, Cat. Phan., p. 293. H. and A. Adams, Gen. Moll., ii, p. 302 ; 

 Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 178 ; 1869, p. 356 ; 1870, p. 198 

 (var. exjmnsa); 1871, p. 25 (var. dimimda). Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc, 

 1871, p. 476. Paetel, Cat. Conch., p. 125. Schmeltz, Cat. Mus. 

 Godeflf'.. V, p. 98 (var. delicatula). 



Helicina delicatula, "Mss." Paetel, Cat. Conch., p. 125. 



Abundant beneath decaying vegetation and is difiused throughout 

 the group. The variety delicatula is common at Samoa, and 

 Mousson's diminuta is widely spread over the Tonga group. Vari- 

 ety expansa inhabits Kanathia, one of the Viti Islands. 



This variable species may be recognized by its conoid form, thin 

 texture, oblique striation, yellowish horn-color and radiating angu- 

 lar or flexuous rufous strigations. Sometimes the stripes are inter- 

 rupted so as to form a series of sjwts along the sutural line and on 

 the acutely carinated periphery. The peristome is slightly expanded 

 and forms an angle at its junction with the short columella. 



Diam. 4 to 9 mill. 



H, plicatilis, Mousson. 



Helicina plicatilis, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 178 ; 1869, 

 p. 358. Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 476. Paetel, Cat. Conch., 

 p. 126. Brazier, Proc Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 322. Schmeltz, Cat. Mus. 

 Godeff"., V, p. 98. Pfeiffer, Mon. Reunion, iv, p. 251. 




1^87.] XATUP.AL 8CIENCKS OF PHILADELPHIA. 151 



Common on trees at Upolu. 



A large, solid, white," depressly conical fipecies, with 4J depressed 

 whorls, the last one wide, obtusely angular, or bluntly carinated on 

 the periphery. The peristome is sharp, and in adult individuals 

 the anterior margin of the basal cellosity forms a crest-like ridge 

 which joins the base of the outer-lip. Diam. 9 mill. 



Mr. Brazier (in P. Z. 8., 1<S71, p. 022), says Mousson's plicatilis 

 is synonymous with Pfeiffer's H. NorfoUcensis, and that Cuming's 

 locality "Norfolk Island" is erroneous. Though the species has 

 several years precedence in publication, and, if they are identical, 

 Mr. Brazier is fully justified in rejecting Pfeifter's name which is a 

 misnomer. 



The description of Novfolkeiisis agrees very nearly with the Samoa 

 ^hell, but no mention is made of the peculiar crest-like basal ridge. 

 The measurements are too large for the latter species. 



H. beryllina, Gould. 



Helicma beryllina, (lould, Proc. Bost. Soc. ISTat. Hist., 1847, p. 

 •202 ; Exp. Exp. Shells, p. 95, fig. HI. Pfeiffer, Mon. Pneum., i, p. 

 ■354.' Gray, Cat. Phan., p. 256. (Idesa) H. and A. Adams, Gen. 

 Moll., ii, p. 304. Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 197 ; 1869, p. 

 -357 (vsir. Jiavida) ; 1870, p. 200. Paetel, Cat. Conch., p. 125. Pease, 

 Proc. Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 476. Schmeltz, Cat. Mus. Godeff., v, p. 

 98. 



Gould's typical heryll'uia inhabits the eastern portion of the Viti 

 Islands, and Mousson's var. flavida was found at Tutuila by Dr. 

 Graffe. The latter variety has the spire and base yellowish, the 

 last whorl whitish with a yellowish zone. In every other respect it 

 differs none from the Vitian type, which is a large species (9 to 10 

 mill, in diam.), of a solid texture, depressly conoid in shape and 

 rather variable in color : white, greenish-white, flesh-color, frequently 

 with a dorsal red zone. Lip simple and the periphery obtuse. 

 H. interna, Moujf.-'on. 



Helicina interna, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 358 ; 1870, 

 p. 201, pi. 8, fig. 6 ; 1871, p. 24. Paetel, Cat. Conch., p. 125. 

 Schmeltz, Cat. ]Mus. Godeff., v, p. 99. Pfeiffer. Mon. Pneum., iv, p. 

 248. Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 476. 



This species, which is common to the Viti and Tonga Islands, 

 was found by Dr. Graffe at Savaii. 



A turbinately conical species of a uniform white, or yellowish 

 <;olor, with or without a spiral reddish-brown zone and regular coni- 




152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18^7. 



cal spire. Whorls 5, slightly convex, the last one rounded or ob- 

 tusely angulated. Peristome acute. Diam. 9 mill. 

 H. musiva, Gould. 



Helicina musiva, Gould, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., 1847, p. 

 201 ; Expl. Exp. Shells, p. 98, fig. 107. Pfeiffer, Mon. Pneum., i, 

 p. 368. Gray, Cat. Phan., p. 259. H. and A. Adams, Gen. Moll, ii,. 

 p. 302. Mousson, Jour, de Coach., 1865, p. 178 (var. Uveana); 1869,. 

 p. 357 ; 1870, p. 202 (vars. Vitiana ei suhcarinata); 1871, p. 25 ; 

 1873, p. 107 (var. rohmdata). Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 476, 

 Paetel, Cat. Conch., p. 125 (viusica in err.). 



This variable species is abundant beneath decaying vegetation 

 on the lowlands near the sea-shore. It is also common in the Tonga 

 and Viti Islands as well as in the low coral islands of Ellis group. 



The shape varies from depressed globose to sub-lenticular, and, 

 in size varies from 3 to 5 mill, in diameter. The usual color is 

 white, corneous, or jiale yellowish horn-color with radiating reddish- 

 chestnut more or less zigzagged or undulating stripes, rarely unicolor. 

 The periphery is rounded, or subangulated and the peristome slight- 

 ly expanded. 



H. altivaga, Mousson. 



Helicina altivaga, "Mousson" Schmeltz, Cat. Mus. GodefT., v, p- 

 99. 



This species, which was neither described nor figured, was found 

 at Upolu, by Dr. Graffe. 



ASSIMINEA, Leach. 

 A. nitida, Pease. 



Hydrocena nitida, Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1864, p. 674. 



Assiminea nitida, Pease, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 165, pi. 7, fig. 

 11 ; Proc Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 476. Schmeltz, Cat. Mus. Godeffl, v, 

 p. 103. Garrett, Proc. Phil. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1879, p. 29 ; Jour. 

 Phil. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1881, p. 408. 



f Realia nitida, Pfeiffer, Mon. Pneum., iii, p. 202. 



Hydrocena parvula, Mousson, Jour, de Conch., 1865, p. 184 ; 187ot 

 p. 108. 



Omphalotropis -parvula. Pease, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 155 ; 

 Proc. Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 476. Paetel, Cat. Conch., p. 124. 



Assiminea parvula. Pease, Proc. Zool, Soc, 1871, p. 476. Schmeltz,. 

 Cat. Mus. Godeff:, v, p. 103. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 153 



Healia parvula, Pfeiffer, Mon. Pneum., iii, p. 213. 



Assiminea lueida, Pease, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 166, pi. 7, fig. 

 10; Proc. Zool. Soc, 1871, p. 476. 



Assiminea ovata, "Pease" Schmeltz, Cat. Mus. Godeff., v, p. 103. 



Hydrocena pygmoda, Gassies, Jour, de Conch., 1867, p. 63. 



Assiminea pygmcea, Pease, Jour, de Conch., 1869, p. 165. 



f Realia pygmcea, Pfeiffer, Mon. Pneum., iv, p. 214. 



Hydrocena similis, Baird, in Cruise of the Curacoa. 



This species is distributed throughout all the groups from the 

 Paumotu's to the Viti Islands and New Caledonia. They are found 

 beneath decaying leaves, under stones and dead wood. 



It may be recognized by its small size (2? to 4 mill, long), smooth, 

 shining surface, ovate-conical form, light or dark corneous color ; 

 rarely with a faint transverse band on the last whorl. 



11 




154 proceedings of the academy of [1887. 



May 3. 

 Mr. Thos. Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Twenty-three persons present. 



On Aphyllon as a root Parasite. — Mr. Thomas Meehan remarked 

 that the life histories of many of our root parasites were still obscure -in 

 many cases we hardly knew whether they were annual or perennial ; 

 how long it took for them to perfect themselves, and in some cases it 

 was even doubted Avhether they were parasites in the true sense of 

 the word, or merely obtained a start by feeding on partially decom- 

 posed vegetable matter. In one of the earlier editions of Flora Ces- 

 trica, Dr. Wm. Darlington observes that he has often dug Aphyl- 

 lon umflorum without finding it attached to anything, — and, though 

 he omits this remark in later editions, he observes that it is "Per- 

 enn.ialf " The speaker remarked that he had dug this species very 

 carefully when in bloom, and washed the earth gently away, finding 

 them truly parasitic on the coarser fibres of Asters and Goldenrods. 

 They very readily separate from their connection unless carefully 

 handled, which may account for the failure to note their true para- 

 sitic nature. 



A specimen sent by Mr. Morris, a florist of Des Moines Iowa, of 

 an allied species A.fasekulatum Torr. and G., (Phelipceafasdculata of 

 some authors), gives the opportunity for acq airing certain knowledge in 

 relation to these points. "Sir. Morris raised numerous plants of the 

 common bedding geranium (Pelargonium zonale). The cuttings 

 were made in October and November last. They were potted in 

 €arth taken from a piece of newly cleared woodland in the vicin- 

 ity. The plants appeared in many of the geranium pots in his green- 

 house, and were in full flower in April. As the plants were only 

 in this soil for about three months, the seeds must have sprouted, 

 flowered, and were on the decline in that time. They are therefore 

 annual, and a very short-lived annual at that. 



In regard to the parasitism, the attachment in several that Mr. 

 Meehan had examined, was to the coarser roots. In the plant ex- 

 hibited, it was to the main stem of the cuttings beneath the ground, 

 and not to the roots, which in this specimen were merely weak fibres. 



The geranium, an African plant, and of a very different character 

 from these which the Aphyllon has been in the habit of feeding on, 

 pro\ang so acceptable to it in this instance, shows that it is either 

 not partial in its parasitic tastes, or that it has ready powers of 

 adaptation when something suited to its peculiar habits comes along. 



May 10. 



The President, Dr. Joseph Leidy, in the chair. 

 Twenty persons present. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIKXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 155 



The following was presented for publication : — 



"Contributions tow'ards a Synopsis of the American forms of Fresh- 

 Water Sponges w^ith Descriptions of those named by other authors 

 and from all parts of the world.," By Edw. Potts. 



The death of Robert H. Hare, a member, was announced. 



On the Stipules of Magnolia Frazeri. — Mr. Thomas Meehan exhib- 

 ited some fresh flowers of Magnolia Frazeri, Walter — {M. auriculata, 

 Lamarck), and said that when he contributed the paper on the 

 "Stipules of Magnolia and Liriodendron" to the Proceedings of the 

 Academy in 18^0, he had not had the opportunity to examine fresh 

 flowers of this species. It was not common in cultivation from the 

 fact that the plants grown rarely produced seeds, and there had 

 been little opportunities to get seeds from its North Carolina home. 

 On his grounds of late years a specimen had annually borne flowers, 

 which appeared very early, following immediately the flowers of tlie 

 Yulan, and were as large and sw eet as that species of China. 



A point made in the paper referred to was that the petals of Mag- 

 nolia were not modified leaves, as the petals of flowers would l)e 

 broadly stated to be in morphological works but rather modified 

 stipules, in which case the petiole and leaf blade have wholly abor- 

 ted. At the time of its appearance, Dr. Asa Gray, to whose kindly 

 criticisms on this and other papers he had been so often deej^ly indebted, 

 wrote expi'essing his interest in the ])aper, saying that the obser- 

 vations confirmed the views of some German observer, whose name 

 he could not recall, that the petals of many flowers were l)ut modi- 

 fied stipules. 



Mr. Meehan had not been able to meet with the name of the 

 author or of the paper referred to by Dr. Gray, or the tenor of the 

 author's vicAvs. Indeed his observations and those of the author 

 referred to, must have been wholly overlooked by their co-laborers, 

 or else the views have not commended themselves to their good 

 judgment. For his own part the subsequent observations of nearly 

 twenty years had convinced him that the petals of most flowers 

 should be considered enlarged stipules or thinly dilated bases 

 of petioles, rather than modified leaves, as we should understand 

 this term. In many species of Roses, especially in Rosa Kamtcha- 

 tica, and Hosa cinnamomea the stipules could be noted increasing, 

 and the size of the leaf blade diminishing on the branch as it ap- 

 proached inflorescence. Often the tips of the sepals would develop 

 to minute leaf blades, and in a few instances he had had seen the same 

 appendages on abnormal petals. Often the stipules, especially in 

 Rosa Kamtchatica, would have the red colors of the petals, when at 

 the nodes immediately below the axis from which the peduncle pro- 

 ceeded. There could be no possible doubt in the minds of those who 

 would carefully compare, and watch for occasional aberrations, that 

 the petals of the rose were rather transformed stipules than complete 

 leaves. Precisely the same process of development from stipules to 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



petals could be traced in some Leguminosce, and especially in the 

 common Red Field Clover. 



When vegetation was arrested in its growth and hud scales were 

 formed for the protection of the growth-germ for the next season, 

 it was the stipule or dilated base of the petiole that formed the scale. 

 This was evident to those who watched the bursting of the growth 

 buds in spring of the species of Fraxinus, or of the Dwarf Horse 

 Chestnut (Aesculus pa7'vijiora) common in gardens. 



The formation of petals for the protection of the reproductive 

 germ, was also the result of arrested vegetative growth, and we may 

 safely assume that the same law operates on the stipules and petiolar 

 bases, in the one case as in the other. 



This Magnolia confirms these views, as already indicated in the 

 paper referred to. Tlie stijiules increase in size, and the develop- 

 ment of the leaf blade is arrested just in projiortiou as the true 

 petals are approached, until the last one preceding the true flower 

 is nearly as large as the petals, and of nearly their form and char- 

 acter. In some cases the stipule appears as a perfect petal, with not a 

 of leaf blade left. The true sepal or petal has lost all trace of petiole 

 or blade, — it is broadened at the base, and, we see, cannot be aught 

 but the stipule modified. 



The fact that the petals of flowers are rather the bases of petioles 

 or stipules, than modifications of full typical leaves may not only be 

 proved by such observations as have been referred to, but accords 

 with that philosophy Avhich would expect to find an uniform law 

 result from uniform causes. For if, as cannot be doubted, the check 

 vegetative growth produce petal a bud scale out of a stipule, the 

 check to vegetative growth should produce a petal (a flower scale) out 

 of the same typical form. The theory gives to morphological law 

 a harmony of action that is wanting without it. 



May 17. 

 Mr. J. H. Redfield, in the chair. 

 Twenty-eight persons present. 



May 24. 

 Mr. Chas. Morris, in the chair. 

 Twenty-nine persons present. 



A paper entitled "Notes on the Anatomy of Echidna hystrix." 

 By H. C. Chapman M. D., was presented for publication. 



Permission was given to change the name of a communication 

 presented October 19, 1886, by Prof Wm. B. Scott, for publication 

 in the Journal of the Academy, from " The Genera Mesonyx and 

 Pachyaena, Cope." to "On some new and little-known Creodonts." 




1887.] natural scien'ces of philadelphia. lo7 



May 31. 



The President, Dr. Joseph Leidy, in the chair. 



Twelve persons present. 



Asplanchna Ebbesbornti — Dr. Leidy remarked that a few days 

 ago 5lr. AVm. P. Seal, had submitted to him a four ounce bottle 

 swarming with animalcules, which at first glance he supposed to be 

 a species of Cypris, but on closer inspection he observed to be a rotifer. 

 As seen with the naked eye they appeared transparent whitish, and 

 of conical shape and about half a line in length. They swam ac- 

 tively, with the crown uppermost, and at all levels of the" water. 

 The rotifer accords closely with the description of Asplanchna 

 Ebbesbornii, given by Hudson in the Journal of the Royal Micro- 

 scopical Society in 1883, p. 621, pi. ix, x. As in this it has a dor- 

 sal and ventral projection. At times it was observed that the rotifer 

 would retract the crown and project a pair of lateral conical horns, 

 when it would appear as broad as it was long. The stomach is yel- 

 lowish and suspended from the pharynx by a long narrow oesopha- 

 gus. There was a single eye. The animal is \'iviparous, and was 

 observed in a number of instances to suddenly give birth to a young 

 one which was about two thirds the size of the parent, and resem- 

 bled it in form. Specimens measured from f to 1 i mm in length. 

 Mr. Hudson's specimens were obtained from a duck-pond in Wilt- 

 shire, England, the only known locality. Mr. Seal's specimens were 

 obtained from a "filthy sewage-fed pond, — a duck-pond and hog-wal- 

 low" below the city. In summer it is completely covered with duck 

 weed, Lemmt. The Avater swarms with the rotifer in company with 

 Daphnia. ]Mr. Seal remarks that he noticed sandpipers about the 

 place and thinks these birds are especially instrumental in distrib- 

 uting the lower forms of aquatic life. 



The following were elected correspondents : — 



Henry A. Ward of Rochester, Addison E. Verrill of Xew Haven, 

 R. P. Whitfield of New York, Edgar A. Smith of London, August 

 Brot of Geneva, E. Ray Lankester of London, William E. Hoyle 

 of Edinburgh, Eduard von Martens of Berlin, William Kobelt of 

 Schwanheim, S. Clessin of Ochsenfurt, Rev. M. Heude, S. J. of 

 Zika-Wei, China, Rudolph Bergh of Copenhagen, A. T. de Roche- 

 brune of Paris and Herrman Friele of Bergen. 



The following were ordered to be i:)rinted : — 




158 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



CONTRIBUTIONS TOWARDS A SYNOPSIS OF THE AMERICAN FORMS 



OF FRESH WATER SPONGES WITH DESCRIPTIONS OF THOSE 



NAMED BY OTHER AUTHORS AND FROM ALL PARTS 



OF THE WORLD. 



BY EDWARD POTTS. 



Dr. Bowerbank's "Monograph of the Spongillidse," (Proc. ZooL 

 Soc, London, 1863 p. 440 etc.) and "The History and Classification 

 of the known species of Spongilla," by H. J. Carter Esq. F. R. S. 

 etc. (Annals and Mag. of Nat. Hist., London, 1881, p. 77 etc.) 

 contain the only complete spiopses of the fresh water sponges, as 

 known at their resj)ective dates. Both writers have, in their 

 introductory remarks, given full information as to the history and 

 bibliography of this branch of study, which it cannot be necessary 

 noAV to repeat. 



My design in the preparation of the present paper has been, 

 primarily, to describe those genera and species, mostly North 

 American, that have been discovered since the date of Mr. Carter's 

 publication; next, to detail the results of a somewhat extended 

 examination into the character and variations, in North America, 

 of those species that have long been familiarly known in Europe; 

 and thirdly, to make it valuable for reference as a Monograph, by 

 adding brief technical descriptions of all other "good" species. 



A further purpose, and one that I hold much at heart, is the 

 desire to revive, among scientists and lovers of nature, an apprecia- 

 tion of the apparently almost forgotten fact of the existence of sponges 

 in our fresh water ; to show them that they are easily found and 

 collected; that they are deeply interesting as living subjects of study, 

 microscopic and otherwise ; and that, by simple processes, their typ- 

 ical parts may readily be prepared for classification and the 

 permanent preservation of their various singular forms. With this 

 end in view the situations and conditions in which the American 

 species were found, have been briefly desci'ibed, suggesting the hope- 

 fulness of an exploration of similar localities in other neighborhoods. 



During the last six or seven years the leisure time of a very busy 

 life has been largely occupied in the collection and examination 

 of sponge material. In this labor of love I have been greatly aided 

 by the contributions and correspondence of friends, till then 

 unknown, in widely separated districts, for whose thoughtful kindness 

 t 




PROC. ACAD. NAT, SCI. PHILA. 1887. 



PL, Y. 







I 



ass.-^ ^ 







¥ 



.4W' 



^- 



, it 



-'■J 

 ,, 'f 





¥ 



Dr. C. ■«'. <k-I,!irimiy, ilul. 



IZI 



POTTS ON FRESH WATER SPONGES. 





PROG. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1887. 



PL. VI. 



<^ J Vv«.-,;'S' 



I 



I 



nr 



Dr. C. W. dfl.Hiinoy.del. 



POTTS ON FRESH WATER SPONGES. 





PROC. ACAD, NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1887. 



PL Yll. 



I 



.S. O. Fnulke. ilel. 



POTTS ON FRESH WATER SPONGES. 





PROG, ACAD. NAT, SCI, PHILA, 1887. 



PL VIII. 



HI 



S. G. Foulke, fU-l. 



¥ 



POTTS ON FRESH WATER SPONGES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1887. 



PL. IX. 





o V ^ 

 ^ 









'"J K/\_ /'''■■/ ^ 





^ 



H 



>^^ /^v 



S. (;. Foiilke, .k'l. 



POTTS ON FRESH WATER SPONGES. 





PROG. ACAD, NAT, SCI. PHILA. 1887. 



PL, X, 



S. G. Foulke, tUI. 



POTTS ON FRESH WATER SPONGES. 





PROC. ACAD, NAT, SGI, PHILA. 1887. 



PL. XI. 





S. G. Foulke, del. 







^ v^^ ^ m. 



POTTS ON FRESH WATER SPONGES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1887, 



FL. XII. 



^v>^ ^^, 



/■■/ 



% - 



A'- 



n 



2 



S, G. Koiilkc, del. 



POTTS ON FRESH WATER SPONGES. 





1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 159 



I now desire to express my indebtedness. It were idle to attempt to 

 name them all; but to Pi'ofessors Allen, Cope, Hunt, Leidy and 

 Heilprin of Philadelphia, to Dawson, Hyatt, Bumpus and Osborn 

 in other localities, I am particularly indebted. As active workers 

 in the same field and during nearly the same period, I am glad to 

 acknowledge my constant obligation to my friends Mr. Henry Mills, 

 of Buffalo, N. Y. and Mr. B. W. Thomas of Chicago, 111.^ whose 

 names will frequently be found throughout the following pages. 

 More recently my valued friend and correspondent Mr. A. H. Mac- 

 Kay, of Pictou, Nova Scotia, has l)een untiring in his efforts, very 

 successful in his local and New Foundland collections and most 

 generous in the contribution of his valuable material. I owe to my 

 friend Prof. John A. Ryder of the University of Pennsylvania, what 

 has been of more value than any material, the most unfailing courtesy 

 and the best of advice, assistance and encouragement to persevere 

 in my work. From abroad I have been honored with the correspon- 

 dence and publications of Dr. W. Djbowski of Niankow, Russia, 

 Prof. Marshall of Leipsig, Vejdovsky and Petr of Prague, Bohemia. 

 Prof. Vejdovsky has laid me under especial obligations by his repeated 

 gifls of Bohemian and other European sponges, besides his "Diagnosis 

 of the European Spongillidae" now published as a very valuable 

 contribution to this paper. I thank Dr. C. W. de Lannoy, late of 

 Chester, Pennsylvania, for the original drawings for plates V aud 

 VI the excellence of which will be conceded by all acquainted 

 with the subjects. 



Two names remain of friends, without Avhose influence and assis- 

 tance this Monograph would probably never have been Avritten. 

 The first has passed the alloted term of "three score years and ten," 

 and now, with failing strength, but unfailing love of his work, is 

 hastening to garner the last ripe sheaves of a life of honorable scien- 

 tific labor. I count it a great privilege to have become acquainted, 

 near the beginning of my work, Avith H. J. Carter, Esq. of 

 Devonshire, England, than whom no obscure scientist could hope 

 for a more constant friend or more courteous correspondent. To 

 the fine artistic skill and unwearying patience of the other. Miss S. 

 G. Foulke of Philadelphia, my readers, with myself, owe a large 

 part of the value of this work, in the admirable drawings from 

 which plates VII to XII have been reproduced. 



These reproductions are the work of the Photo-Engraving Co. 

 (N. Y.) and while it is regretted that from the very nature of the 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



process no photo-engraved plate could repeat, with their relative 

 delicacy, the finer lines of Miss Foulke's beautiful drawings, in other 

 respects they are very well done. 



A few words of elementary information may be desirable to aid 

 those who for the first time undertake the study of sponges. 



In constitution and general appearence the fresh water sponges 

 resemble many of those of a marine habitat, excepting in one 

 particular. This crucial point is the presence, during certain resting 

 seasons, in most of the former, and the absence from all the latter, 

 of those "seed-like bodies" that have been known and described 

 by various authors under the names of ovaria, gemmules, statoblasts, 

 statospheres, spliperulse, etc. In the jsast I have generally avoided 

 the use of the familiar word statoblast, as it did not seem clearly 

 proven that the function of these "seed like bodies" of the sponges 

 was identical with that of the statoblasts of the polyzoa etc ; and 

 have used the terms statospheres, or sphserulse, as suggesting 

 merely their general appearance. Latterly, however, I have con- 

 curred with several European writers in the use of the old term, 

 gemmules; the j)rincipal objection to which, is that with some persons 

 the name may seem like a return to the exploded vegetable theory 

 of sponges. It is hardly necessary to say that this idea is not 

 intended. 



In shape these gemmules are nearly spherical; they are about 

 i^ of an inch in diameter, or as large as very small mustard seeds. 

 They are found sometimes in continuous layers, as at the base of 

 encrusting sponges; sometimes they rest singly in the interspaces 

 among the skeleton spicules ; again, they occur in groups of a dozen 

 or less, sjiarsely scattered through the sponge mass, or in smaller, 

 denser groups, closely enveloped in a compact cellular parenchyma. 

 Their principal coat, presumably of chitin, encloses a compact mass 

 of protoplasmic globules, each of which is charged with numbers of 

 discoidal particles, whose ftinction, though all important, it is not 

 my intention to discuss in the present paper. A circular orifice, 

 rarely moi-e than one, through this chitinous coat, sometimes, 

 though inaptly called the hilum, should be known as the foramen 

 or foraminal aperture. Through it, at the time of germination, the 

 above mentioned protoplasmic bodies make their exit, crawling by 

 an amoeboid movement, and spreading out on every side. In a few 

 hours the infimt colony may be seen producing aqueous currents, 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



developing and arranging skeleton spicules, and in every way living 

 the life of a young sponge. The foraminal aperture is rarely 

 plain; more frequently it is infundibular, (PI. V, fig. i, a,), having a 

 slightly raised and expanded margin ; while in still other species it 

 is prolonged into cylindrical or funnel shaped tubules (PI. VI, fig. 

 iii, iv, and v.) 



In most species, possibly in all under normal conditions, the 

 chitinous coat is surrounded by a "crust" (PI. VI, figs, i, ii, etc.), 

 composed of air cells, often so minute as to be with difficulty 

 "resolvable," even with a high power of the microscope; in other 

 species so large as to be readily discerned by the use of a low one. 

 In the first instance it has been called a "granular," in the other, a 

 ^'cellular" "ci'ust." In this are imbedded (PI. V and VI,), the spicules 

 which, as Avill be hereafter seen, are relied upon to determine the 

 generic classification of these sponges. 



To recur for a moment to the resemblance stated to exist between 

 the fresh water and some of the marine sponges, — we can see no 

 obvious reason why all the marine forms should not have their 

 representatives among those belonging to fresh water ; but it is a 

 fact that all of the latter, as yet discovered, are silieious; — that is, the 

 skeleton or framework, (corresponding to the elastic fibre of which 

 commercial sponges are composed) upon which the slime-like sponge 

 flesh, known as "sarcode," is supported, and through whose interstices 

 the currents meander, is composed of silieious spicules, slightly 

 bound together by an almost invisible quantity of firmer sarcode or 

 perhaps of colloidal silica. 



To form the main lines of this skeleton structure the spicules, 

 averaging about yjcyth. of an inch in length, are fasciculated in 

 bands made up of several spicules, lying side by side, and somewhat 

 overlapping at their extremities ; the crossing lines being formed of 

 more slender fascicles, or even of single spicules. In the different 

 species these "skeleton" spicules vary in size, in the shape of their 

 terminations, and in their more or less spinous character (see Plates 

 VII to XII, a,a,); but while these differences serve, in some degree, as 

 specific guides, they are not sufficiently constant or positive to form 

 a basis for generic arrangement. 



Besides the skeleton spicules, a second class, known as "dermal" or 

 flesh spicules (PI. VII to XII, c, d, e, etc.) is found only in some species 

 and in greater or less numbers, either lying upon the outer "dermal" 

 film or lining the canals in the deeper portions of the sponge. They 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



are almost always much smaller than those of the skeleton and are 

 never fasciculated or bound together in any way. A third class of 

 spicules is composed of those before mentioned as imbedded in the 

 "crust" of the gemmules, and form what may be regarded as their 

 armor or defensive coating. These gemmule-spicules rej^resent two 

 principal and several subordinate types, which have been selected 

 by Mr. Carter to define the different genera into which he has divi- 

 ded the single genus Spongilla of the earlier authors. His method 

 of classification will be given later. 



The sponge in its entirety as a growing organism can generally 

 be easily recognized by the collector, after he has escaped from the 

 thraldom of the idea that any fixed growth, of a more or less vivid 

 green color, must be a jilant of some kind. Of course the mosses 

 and confervse will be rejected after examination, upon the evidence 

 given by the leaves of the one and the smooth slender threads of the 

 other. If doubts remain as to any specimen, the presence in it of 

 efferent or discharging apertures, like those of the commercial sponge, 

 if it is really a sponge, may serve to dispel them, and still more con- 

 vincing proof will be given by the use of a pocket lens, in detecting 

 the points of multitudinous spicules thickly studding the surface. 

 When, in addition to these guiding features, the spherical gemmules 

 just described are found within or under it, there should be no fur- 

 ther hesitation. 



The green color spoken of, is common and characteristic ; yet it 

 is not universal, but closely dependent upon the quantity or quality 

 of the light received. When a sponge has germinated away from 

 the light and has grown upon the lower side of a plank or stone, it will 

 be found nearly white, gray or cream colored. As it enlarges and 

 creeps around the edge and up into the full sun light it assumes a 

 delicate shade of green, deepening as the exposure increases, till it 

 attains a bright vegetable hue. Even in the sunlight, however, 

 some species are never green. (See description of Meyenia leidyi.) 



These organisms have occasionally been discovered growing in 

 water unfit for domestic uses ; but as a rule they prefer pure water, 

 and in my experience the finest specimens have always been found 

 where they were subjected to the most rapid currents. The lower 

 side of large, loose stones at the "riffs" or shallow places in streams : 

 the rocks amid the foaming water at the foot of a mill-dam fall ; the 

 timbers of a sluice-way, the casing of a turbine waterwheel, or 

 the walls of a "tail race" beneath an old mill; — in all these places 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 16S 



they have been found in great abundance and of a very lusty growth. 

 Of all discouraging situations it is almost hopeless to look for them 

 in shallow water having a mud bottom. Mud is their great enemy, 

 as gravity aids their natural currents to fill the cavities with earthy 

 matters that soon suffocate them, because the latter are too feeble to 

 throw them off. Of course in any body of water liable to be 

 charged with sedimentary material, the principle of natural selection 

 favors those growing on the lower side of their bases of support, 

 which protect them from the intrusion of the heavier particles. 



For that reason perpendicular and water logged or floating timbers, 

 submerged stumps of trees, and branches drooping into the water 

 from trees or bushes along the banks, are favorite locations. They 

 do not disdain more temporary su|)port, such as weeds and water- 

 grasses. I have received from a friend, specimens growing upon 

 water plants that wild ducks had torn from the bottom, and that 

 were found floating upon the surface of Lake Michigan. Through 

 the clear water of our northern lakes, we may often see them lying 

 in slender lines upon the leaves of submerged weeds, or in beautiful 

 cushion-like masses upon the stones or gravel. 



In my explorations I have had much satisfaction in the use of a 

 long pole, to which was attached a small net, with one part of its 

 edge shaped into a scraper, like a garden hoe. This enabled me to 

 examine the surface of timbers at a depth of eight or ten feet and to tear 

 off" and bring up sponges from that depth ; beyond which all is to me an 

 "aqua incognita." Biologists labor at some disadvantage in studying 

 the fauna of our fresh water, as compared with the facilities offered 

 them in collecting ocean subjects. The nets and dredges of many 

 exploring expeditions have, at least, begun to acquaint us with the 

 inhabitants of the "deep sea;" but who knows anything about the 

 fauna or the flora of our deep fresh-water lakes, or even of our 

 larger streams'? The largest specimens of this group ever reported, 

 were dredged from the bottom of Lake Baikal in Central Asia, 

 {Lubomirskia). I know of no similar attempts to collect them else- 

 where. It is to be hoped that means may be found ere long to 

 make such explorations, which must result in an increase of 

 knowledge in many lines. Meantime no opportunity offered by the 

 accidental or designed drainage of artificial reservoirs should be 

 neglected. I have spent hours of great pleasure and profit while 

 groping around the distributing reservoirs upon Fairmount Hill, 

 Philadelphia, at times when the water was drawn off for cleaning 

 or repairs. 




164 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



One further point as to methods of collecting and I shall finish 

 this section of my subject. Unless our sponges are large, it is difficult 

 to detach them without mutilation, from the rough surfaces of 

 stones. It is therefore preferable to gather, when possible, those 

 growing upon wood, which may be scraped or chipped without 

 injury to them. It is essential to secure the very lowest portions, 

 as it is there the gemmules often abide. 



The proper season for collecting fresh water sponges, in waters of 

 the temperate zone, depends upon the purpose of the collector. If 

 it is his desire to gather cabinet specimens merely, for the iden- 

 tification of old or the determination of novel species, it is hardly 

 worth while to begin before July. As mth the flowering of plants, 

 the maturity of diflerent species of sponges is attained at various 

 ■dates, between mid-summer and late in November. The essential 

 point is, that the gemmules and their armature shall be fully 

 perfected; and when that condition is attained in any specimen, 

 there is no reason for further delay. 



I would, however, recommend to intending students a far higher 

 •object for their ambition ; — that is, the study of the physiology and 

 life history of sponges as members of a sub-kingdom whose position 

 has been greatly questioned and whose character, derivation and sub- 

 sequent evolution are very important and perplexing topics. I 

 would have such workers search for and examine them at all seasons 

 of the year, (even in midwinter, when I have never failed in suita- 

 ble situations to find some in a growing condition), keeping memo- 

 randa as to each species separately ; noting the date of their germi- 

 nation or earliest appearance, the locality, elevation, temperature; 

 rapidity of growth at different seasons ; time and manner of forma- 

 tion of gemmules ; stability or decadence during the Avinter ; modes 

 of distribution and progression, whether always down stream or by 

 other more adventitious methods ; what becomes of the gemmules 

 upon x-eaching salt-water, and the thousand and one problems that 

 go to make up the life history of any animal form, and that, in this 

 instance, have been very little studied. I am particularly anxious 

 that some competent person should undertake their study in the 

 briny, brackish and the fresh water lakes, pertaining to what is 

 known as the "Great Basin of the West," with a special view to as- 

 certain the conditions under which they form "protected gemmules" 

 in such localities. By this means, light may possibly be thrown 

 upon the problem of their possible derivation from the marine sponges. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIE^X'ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 165 



Great pleasure and profit may be attained in the same direction, 

 by germinating the statoblasts or gemmules under artificial condi- 

 tions, and studying the development of the young sponges by the 

 aid of as high powers of the microscope as the ingenuity of each 

 student may bring to bear upon the subject. I take the liberty ta 

 copy from the Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 1882, p. 365, Mr. Carter's 

 directions for germinating statoblasts, which will be found valual)le. 

 "To obtain the young spongillse it is only necessary to get a portion 

 of an old living specimen bearing statoblasts, and, having taken 

 out a few (six to twelve) of the latter, to roll them gently between 

 the folds of a towel to free them from all extra material as much 

 as possible, place them in a Avatch glass so as not to touch each 

 other, with a little water, in a saucer or small dish filled Avith small 

 shot to keep the saucer upright and, coA'ering them AA^th a glass shade, 

 transfer the Avhole to a AAdndoAA^ bench opposite to the light. In a fcAV 

 days the young Spongilla may be observed (from its Avhite color) is- 

 suing from the statoblast and gluing the latter as aa'cII as itself to the 

 Avatch glass, A\-hen it AA'ill be ready for transfer to the field of the micro- 

 scope for examination, care being taken that it is never uncoA'^ered by 

 the water, AA'hich may be replenished as often as necessary ; but of 

 course the object-glass (Avhen \ inch Avith high occular is used for 

 vieAving the minute structure) must admit of being dipped into the 

 Avater without suffusion of the lens." 



My 0A^m first experience in the propagation of fresh Avater sponges 

 may proA^e instructive in A^arious Avays. Late in the autumn of the 

 year 1879, in a pond Avithin the "Centennial Grounds," Philadel- 

 phia, I found for the first time a living sponge. It was a vigorous, 

 branching specimen of Spongilla lacustris, charged with gemmules 

 in all parts of its structure. A fragment firmly attached to a stone 

 was taken home and placed in a gallon "specie-jar" Avith water, in 

 the hope, begotten of inexperience, that it Avould continue to groAV, 

 exhibit its inflowing and exhalent currents, etc. On the contrary, 

 and as I noAv know, almost necessarily, it died, and in a fcAv days 

 the Avater became insupportably foul. It Avas changed and another 

 trial made, which resulted as before. This time the jar was thorough- 

 ly cleansed ; the stone Avith the attached sponge Avas taken out and 

 held long under a floAving hydrant before it was replaced in the jar, 

 Avhich Avas now left in an outer shed and, very naturally, forgotten. 

 Weeks passed and Avinter came on, and one severe night the AA^ater 

 in my jar Avas frozen solid and the vessel fractured. I supposed 




166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



that the low temperature to which it had been subjected would 

 prove fatal to the germs, but, as the specimen was a fine one, it 

 seemed well to save it, even in its skeletonized condition. So, when 

 its icy envelope had been melted off, the sponge was again thorough- 

 ly washed until all the sarcode was removed, when, in a fresh jar, 

 it again became a parlor specimen. 



I do not clearly remember when signs of germination were first ob- 

 served. It was probably in January, as during that month I find 

 that artificial conditions very frequently bring about the hatching 

 of such animal germs as those of the polyzoa etc. I detected first 

 a filmy, grayish-white growth that seemed associated with the de- 

 tached gemmules which lay in the groove around the bottom of the 

 jar. A gray, featureless growth at first, — then spicules were seen, 

 in slightly fasciculated lines, attached to the glass and reaching up- 

 Avard, then spreading out fan-like and branching. These were of 

 course, covered with sarcode, nearly transparent at first, and through 

 the filmy surface pores and osteoles could be detected with a pocket 

 lens. The latter were surmounted by the so-called "chimneys" or 

 cone-shaped extensions of the dermal film ; and through the apertures 

 at their summits efiete particles could almost constantly be seen, puffed 

 •out, as if thrown from a volcano and then blown off" by the wind. 



These products of single gemmules did not, as time passed on, 

 greatly increase in size ; possibly, because of deficient nutriment in 

 the unchanged water of the jar : but, crawling upward along the 

 glass to an average height of an inch or less, left the naked spicules 

 in place behind them as so many ladders or "stepping stones of 

 their dead selves" by which they had reached to "higher things." 

 Near the summit, one or more new gemmules would sometimes be 

 formed, after which the mother mass entirely disappeared. 



So much for the amount of growth from single gemmules. Where, 

 however, they were thickly sown, or germinated in situ upon the 

 stone, so that the contents of several could mingle and flow together, 

 the resultant sponge was very much larger. The mass, if it may be 

 so called, covered, at its best, nearly one third the surface of the jar) 

 Avhile those gemmules remaining upon the stone and amongst the 

 spicules of the old sponge, continued to germinate, to form abund- 

 ant sarcode and spicules, and, at least in one place, to throw out a 

 long unsupported branch or finger-like process, that ultimately 

 reached a length of two or three inches. 



Of course it was impossible to bring the higher powers of a com- 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 167 



pound microscope to bear upon a sponge growing under such cir- 

 cumstances ; a strong Coddington lens was the best that could be 

 applied to this work ; but a very fair share of success was obtained 

 by the device of scattering small squares of mica among the grow- 

 ing gemmules, Avhich, when covered by the young sponge, could be 

 removed to the stage of my instrument, covered with water in a 

 compressorium and examined comparatively at leisure. It was a 

 perpetual cause of astonishment to me, to see so large a production 

 of silicious spicules from a single gallon of water, in which the chem- 

 ist would probably have failed to find any such constituent. It is 

 worthy of consideration liowever, whether such silica as composed 

 the older spicules may not, at least when under the influence of the 

 grow1;h force of the younger sponges, be to some extent soluble. 



Further observations regarding the late maturity and the winter 

 growth of some sponges will be found recorded in the general re- 

 marks concerning Spongilla aspinosa, S. lacustris etc. 



As to processes of gathering — I have already mentioned the ad- 

 vantages obtained by the use of the "scraper net" in relatively deep 

 water and in connection with perpendicular timbers etc. At depths 

 of two feet or less, great facility of action is gained by wearing high 

 rubber boots and wading after our specimens, to pick from the bot- 

 tom stones, sticks or pieces of waterlogged timber, under which they 

 may be concealed. Where the water is deeper, of course a boat 

 must be used, to approach the floating, submerged or dependent 

 sponge-1)earing substances. A large, strong knife or a paper- 

 hanger's scraper will be found convenient for hand work at short 

 range. A case containing trays an inch or so in depth is suitable 

 for carrying the smaller specimens ; the lai'ger will of course require 

 vessels of greater size. On reaching home or headquarters it is well 

 to select some specimens of characteristic shapes and containing 

 gemmules, for storage in dilute alcohol, making use of wide mouthed 

 bottles to avoid crushing them. The rest may be spread upon boards 

 in sheltered situations, in the shade (for the sun bleaches them rapidly) 

 and left to dry ; turning them every few hours to prevent decompo- 

 sition. If time is limited or the specimens are large, artificial heat 

 may be necessary ; but, whatever process is used, the drying must 

 be thorough, or mould will soon cover the sponges with a mycelium 

 which may be beautifi.il enough in itself, but is far from agreeable 

 or sightly as a feature of the sponge. Whether they are to be dried 

 or preserved in alcohol, they should be dealt Avith jiromjitly and on 




168 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887» 



no account left to lie long in the water after being gathered. Pre- 

 serve from dust in covered boxes. 



For the determination of species, a few general directions may 

 suffice, and even these will be soon modified to suit the tastes or 

 the ingenuity of the worker. — It is assumed that the investigator 

 has already noted the general appearance of the sponge in hand; 

 its color, size, compactness ; whether simply encrusting, or cushion 

 like ; sending out finger-like processes etc. These indications may 

 help an experienced collector to a guess ; but there are very few 

 species that even such a one could name, with any confidence, be- 

 fore he had made and examined microscopic preparations of the 

 same. 



A stand, sup^Dorting a dozen or more test tubes, say three fourths 

 of an inch in diameter by an inch and a quarter in depth ; a drop- 

 ping bottle containing nitric acid, and the usual materials and 

 apparatus for mounting in balsam, are all the appliances needed. 

 As the processes to be described are certain to disturb the normal 

 relations of the several classes of spicules to each other, it is well 

 before the dried specimen has been much handled, to separate some 

 clean jjortions of the outer or dermal film, lay them upon a slide 

 and mount in balsam without further preparation. An examination 

 of this may determine the presence and decide the character of the 

 dermal spicules, if there are any pertaining to the species in hand. 

 This precaution is necessary in view of the displacement of parts 

 just mentioned, and also on account of the indiscriminating habit 

 of the sponge-currents during life, which almost necessarily charge 

 the tissues with various foreign particles, including vagrant spicules 

 of its own and neighboring species. In practice, the rightful presence 

 of dermal spicules in any species is often so doubtful, that it can 

 only be settled by an examination of young sponges, grown under 

 observation, from isolated statoblasts, whose identity has been satis- 

 factorily determined. 



Next, separate from the sponge some minute fragments, contain- 

 ing skeleton spicules, the dermal and interstitial tissues and a dozen 

 or more gemmules. Place several of the last named with a few ad- 

 herent skeleton spicules upon the centre of a fresh slide, — bring to 

 the boiling point in one of the test tubes, five or six drops of nitric 

 acid and by the aid of a dropping tube apply a single drop of the 

 hot acid to the gemmules upon the slide. While the acid is par- 

 tially destroying their cellular or granular crust, pour the remaining 




1887.] NATURAI, SCIKNCKS OF PJriLADlOLPIIIA. 169 



fragments into tlie acid left in the test tube and boil violently, nntil 

 all the tissues are destroyed and the spicules left as a sediment upon 

 the bottom of the tube. Fill up the tube with water and stand it 

 aside to settle; which may take an hour or more. The few min- 

 utes that have elapsed will probably have been as much as the gem- 

 mules upon the slide will bear : they must not be left so long as 

 to destroy the chitinous cout, nor is it well, though a common prac- 

 tice, to boll them upon the slide for this often smears and disfigures 

 it Avith frothy matter. Remove most of the acid by trickling drop 

 after drop of water over the slide while held in a slightly inclined 

 ])Osition. Wipe of! all the water that can be reached and apply re- 

 ])eated drops of strong alcohol to take uj) the remainder. When 

 this is so far accomplished that the geramules will absorb benzole 

 freely and receive their covering of benzole or chloroform balsam 

 without doudbui, apply the balsam and a cover glass. This pro- 

 cess of removing moisture by the use of alcohol, rather than by dry- 

 ing over a lamp, is preferred, although it requires more care and 

 time, be(;ause the gemmules are less likely to be distorted in shape 

 and the cells of the crust to become filled with air, if they are kept 

 always under fluid. Yet if the mounted gemmules, when examined, 

 appear black, showing an accidental intrusion of air, much of this 

 can be removed by carefully heating the slide over a lamp. 



If this mount has been successful, the gemmules are now so trans- 

 parent that their surrounding spicules can be readily seen and the 

 genus determined, l)y the aid of the "Key" hereafter given ; but a 

 better view of the detached spicules is necessary, and may be ob- 

 tained by mounting some of the contents of the test-tube. If the 

 lately suspended spicules have now settled, carefully pour off all the 

 water except one or two drops ; though if there has been much acid 

 used it may be better to wash them a second time. Shake up and 

 place a sufficient quantity upon one or more slides, being careful 

 not to leave the contained spicules in too dense a mass. I have 

 found it best to allow the water to evaporate from these slowly ; 

 jis, if hurried over a lamp, each spicule is often margined with min- 

 ute globules that it is impossible afterward to remove. However, 

 when the slide is ai)parently quite dry, it may be safely exposed a 

 moment to the heat, to make sure of it, and then covered with bal- 

 sam and glass as usual. 



The investigator has now before him all the elements necessary 

 for solving his sjjecijic problem, according to the formulae which 



12 




170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



follow: — the normal sponge, the dermal film, the transparent 

 gemmule, and a display of the detached spicules. Neither would 

 alone answer, but the series Avill settle all points, excepting in the 

 case of the genus Carterius. When this is suspected, the gemmules 

 should first be examined dry; and, in preparations for mounting, 

 great care should be taken to avoid the destruction of the tendrils, 

 (cirri) (PL VI, figs, iii, iv, v. and vi), by the prolonged use of strong 

 acid. Expert microscopists will improve their gemmule mounts by 

 dividing some of them with a thin knife, endeavoring to make the 

 section through the foraminal aperture; this, in the case of species 

 having long birotulates, such as Meyenia crateriformis, (PL V, fig. 

 vi,), is of the utmost importance. 



"Seniors" in microscopy will please pardon the minutiae of the 

 processes just given, as they were necessary to make them available 

 for the "freshmen." All are reminded that the above directions as 

 to collection and examination refer to mature sponges only. It is 

 seldom safe, or even possible, to name one, in which no gemmules 

 can be found. If a course of study is undertaken, involving the 

 histology and physiology of fresh-water sponges, many peculiarities 

 will of course be observed that have not been alluded to here. One 

 of them concerns the development of the spicules and, if not understood , 

 will pretty certainly mislead the beginner into the supposition that 

 he is examing a novel species. Both the skeleton and dermal 

 spicules of young sponges are frequently marked with bulbous 

 enlargements at the middle and often half way between the middle 

 and each end of the spicule. These seem to indicate an immature 

 condition, as they disappear when the spicules are fully formed. 



A few words may be needed to justify the specific groupings I 

 have adopted. I am well aware that objections may be made to so 

 large a use of what some will call a "trinomial nomenclature." 

 Without expressing an opinion as to the policy of the practice as 

 regards other branches of the animal kingdom, in the case of the 

 sponges I think it clearly unavoidable; for the reason, that the 

 inert parts that have just been described as typical, share with the 

 vital amoiboid cells, their well known characteristic of unlimited 

 variability. Were all the names that have been dropped or marked 

 as varieties to be recognized as full species, on the ground 

 that the specimens so designated do not exactly resemble any others, 

 the literature would be encumbered with a mass of names represent- 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 171 



ing forms that no description could distinguish, and no one of which 

 would probably entirely correspond with the next specimen collected 

 by its author from the same sti*eam. This variability in forms tliat 

 were considered typical when the first of a species was collected and 

 named, is a fact in science that will not fail to impress any who 

 may gather from many waters and through a wide extent of country. 



Among some very incomplete memoranda of my collections and 

 receipts, I find it recorded that I liave examined Sponr/Ula fragilis 

 from at least 82 localities in 18 North American States ; S. lacustris, 

 from 26 localities in 16 states; Meyenia fluviatilis from 25 localities 

 in 14 states; Tuhella pennsylvanica from 18 localities in 11 states etc. 

 Had a perfect list been kept, the figures might be largely increased. 

 And this is the lesson most obviously taught: — hardly any two 

 specimens are exactly alike in their so-called typical features ; but 

 all may be grouped, as in the case of those brought together under 

 any of the above designations, and common definitions or descrip- 

 tions will, without undue ehisticity, cover them all. The varieties 

 J have retained are such as were originally considered good species, 

 and have generally some slight peculiarity to recommend them ; but 

 to the student I would say, " Get your genus right and your species 

 right, and then it will matter little whether you associate it with 

 any variety." 



The following "Diagnosis" was prepared at my request by Prof. 

 Franz Vejdovsky, of the University in Prague, Bohemia, to give 

 information a.s to the number of reliable species of fresh-water 

 sponges known by students at the present time to inhabit Euro- 

 pean waters, with their proper synonomy etc., and is far more 

 reliable than I could hope to make it from the scattered literature 

 of the subject. Professor Vejdovsky has greatly aided my work by 

 thus furnishing, in manuscript, a German translation from his Bohe- 

 mian text; for the English version of which I am further indebted 

 to my friend Prof. Benjamin Sharp of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia. As the classification adopted differs from 

 that of Mr. Carter, which, for many reasons, I prefer to follow, it has 

 seemed to me best to present the paper as a whole in this place, in- 

 stead of collating the species and distributing them amongst my 

 descriptions. Due reference will, however, be made to all in their 

 proper order according to Carter's system. 




172 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Diagnosis of the European SpoNGiLLiDiE. 

 Translated from the Bohemian of Prof. Fr. Vejdovsky, in Prague. 

 Fam. SPONGILLID^ 

 (A)—Su/>-Fam. SPONGILLIN^, Carle,: 



"Gemmulaj, sometimes single and sometimes collected into groups; 

 generally surrounded by an air-chamber-layer, in which the gem- 

 mulae spicules are embedded. 



(I) Gen. SPONGILLA, Auct. 



With long, smooth skeleton spicules and short, either straight or 

 curved, smooth or rough parenchyma spicules. Gemmulse either 

 entirely smooth or with an external air-chamber-layer, in Avhich the 

 gemmulse spicules are either tangential or radial, or entirely irreg- 

 ularly embedded. 



(a) Sub-gen. ETJSPONGILLA, Vcj(lov,skv. 

 Gemmulse always single. (Besides the European species, most 

 of the exotic species to which Carter gives the generic name of S'pon- 

 i/dla belong here.) 



(I) Euspongilla lacustris, Auct. 



Syn. — Spongilla lacustris, (?) Linn. 



1788 " canalium, (J) Gmelin. 



1816 " ramosa, (f) Lamarck. 



1842 " lacustris, (f) Johnston. 



1863 " " Lieberkiihn. 



1866 " " Bowerbank. 



1870 " lieberkuhnii, Noll. 



1877 " lacustris, Vejdovsky. 



1877 " jordanensis, " 



1881 " lacustris, Carter. 



1882 " " Dybowski. 



1883 " (Eusponffilla) lacustris, Vejdovsky. 

 1883 " " " jordanensis, " 



1883 " lacustris, Retzer. 



Var. spoil, lacustris ramosa, Retzer. 

 " " lieherhuhnii " 



1884 Euspongilla lacustris, Wierzejski. 



Diagnosis: — (blony (Stoecke) branched or cushion-like, grass- 

 green, yellowish or brownish. Oscuke and pores indistinct- but 

 •everywhere numerous. Skeleton spicules, straight or slightly curved, 

 sharp pointed, smooth and enclosed in bundles in a horny sheath. 

 The parenchyma spicules are present in variable numbers, generally 

 moderately curved and set thick with line spines : at times, however, 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADEI-l'HIA. 17.'> 



when few in miniher they iire smooth. GenunuUu almost entirely 

 naked, without the external uir-chamber-layer.s, and witli very few 

 spicules. In other eases they are covered to a greater or less depth 

 with a layer of minute cells filled with air. At times this layer is 

 surrounded with a distinct horny membrane, although it is often 

 wanting. In the air-chamber-layer are imbedded either radially, 

 tangentially or very irregularly, the genmmlai spicules, which re- 

 semble the parenchyma spicules in external form and variability as 

 to numbers. Ordinarily they are curved and thickly spinea ; rarely 

 entirely smooth. 



Remarks. — Euspongllla lacnstrk is found in nearly all Europe, 

 as an inhabitant of l)oth running and still water. As the above 

 Diagnosis shows, these fresh water sponges are liable to great varia- 

 tions, especially in external form, and in the quantity, as well as 

 the form, of the parenchyma and gemnuila-spicules. Based on 

 these variations, EuspoiigiUa lac}idrl>< would be divided into many 

 species and varieties. Without doubt we have here a very variable 

 fundamental (grund) type, out of which new species are beginning 

 to form. Future careful researches, principally by experiment, 

 will show where lies the cause of the above mentioned variability in 

 the form and quantity of the parenchyma and gemmulae spicules. 



Let us first examine those forms that have been looked upon as 

 indicating distinct sj^ecies. 



We may take as typical, that form in which tiiere are but few par- 

 enchyma spicules ill the tissues, and in which the gemmulseare per- 

 fectly smooth and liut sparingly supplied with covering s] )icules (Beleg- 

 nadeln). This form of EuxponglUa lacia^tris has been regarded by 

 Lieberkuhn. and partly by Bowerbank, as the real Spntigllla luats- 

 tris; and I have also considered it such, in my pai)er "Die Siiss- 

 wasser Schwiimme Bohmens" and so it is also represented by Retzer. 

 In my "Monograph" I have, however, at the same time, pointed out that 

 in one and the same colony (Stoecke), other forms are found witli 

 rough parenchyma spicules and with covering spicules (Belegnadeln ) 

 and seem to indicate a transitional stage towards those that have 

 been looked upon as distinct species. 



The nearest of these is Spongllla leiberk'uhnii described by Noll 

 (Zoologischer (larten) in 1870, and also by Retzer, who, under the 

 same name, described it as follows: — "Forms encrustations on wood 

 and stones, from which rise, frequently free, cylindrical processes as 

 long as one's finger. Skeleton spicules smooth, gradually pointed. 




1 74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



bound into fascicles, which are either long threads, or are placed as 

 a network in the tissues. Hooked spicules cover the gemmulse and 

 are widely dispersed through the tissues. They live in ponds and 

 quiet flowing water and appear to be the most widely distributed spe- 

 cies of Germany." 



" Although from this description of Retzer's it is evident that Spon- 

 (jilla lieberkuhnii only slightly differs from his S. lacustris, I thought 

 it necessary to examine for myself the nature of the form in question. 

 Prom a small fragment of S. lieberkuhnii for which I must thank 

 Prof. Eimer, I clearly recognize its identity with *S'. lacustris. In 

 the form of the gemmulse and the scarcity of the covering spicules 

 I find no difference between them ; sections of the gemmuke prove 

 that the air-chamber-layer is more or less developed and its surface 

 may be with or without a horny membrane ; which is also the case 

 with Euspongilla lacustris in various localities in Bohemia. 



The immense, even predominating quantity of the strong, rough 

 [)arenchynia spicules, and an equally large number and variety of 

 the external form of the gemmulse spicules — these are, on the other 

 hand, the striking characteristics which strongly suggested the re- 

 cognition of a similar form from the Jordan Pond, near Tabor, in 

 Bohemia, as a distinct species, {Euspongilla jordanensis). But the 

 quantity of sponge material that has been at my disposal for some 

 years, convinced me otherwise. In some specimens from the Elb, 

 near Koniggriitz and from a pond near Poiakek (?) I found the 

 gemmulse and covering spicules to correspond with each other, and 

 with the characteristic type of S. lacustris ; while in single branches, 

 they were identical with the same features in E. jordanensis, from 

 the Jordan Pond ; and at the same time a corresponding quantity 

 of rough ])arenchyma spicules was found in its tissues. We must 

 therefore uuite E. jordanensis with E. lacustris. 



E. lacustris, var. macrotheca, very nearly resembles the following 

 sj)ecies. — 



(2) Euspongilla rhenana, Retzer. 



Syn. — 1883 Spongilla rhoiana, Retzer. 



This interesting species was first described by Retzer in the fol- 

 lowing terms: — "It differs from the other species by the smooth gem- 

 mulse spicules." 



"It encrusts pieces of wood, bushes and the like, sending out a 

 few small processes ; and also in many places forms thick masses. 

 The skeleton spicules are straight or slightly curved, abruptly or 




1«S87.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 175 



more gradually pointed. Their thread-like fascicles form a compact 

 network. The genimulae spicules are smooth, symmetrically bent 

 near each end, and form a thick layer around the gemmules ; but 

 are sparingly distributed through the tissues. The gemmulse have 

 a tolerably thick outer wall and are found everywhere in the 

 sponge." 



''Habitat: — Altrheim (V) near Eggenstein, (in the vicinity of 

 " Karlsruhe). According to Prof. Niisslin, whom I thank for the 

 specimens, the sponge Avhen living is green, and at all times can 

 be found on fascine bushes {Faschinen gestraeuch.") 



Through the kindness of Prof. Eimer in Tubingen, I was enabled 

 to examine a fragment of Euspongilla rhenana, and can offer some 

 additions to the description of Retzer. 



The gemmuke have the form and size of those of E. laeustris, but 

 the polar aperture {mikrodiode) is surrounded by a broad, plate-like 

 funnel. Upon the chitinous membrane is a very thin air-chamber- 

 layer consisting of 2-3 cells overlying one another. This layer was 

 rarely deeper than 5-6 cells in a column. The latter support the 

 greater number of spicules. They generally lie tangentially upon 

 the surface of the gemraule and very few are embedded radially in 

 the air-chamber-layer. In shape these spicules are very variable, 

 and generally three principal forms can be determined. The most 

 plentiful are those which reseml)le the common skeleton spicules ; a 

 very few, those mentioned by Ketzer, are bent double and such are 

 also scattered singly through the parenchyma ; finally, there are 

 found upon the surface of the gemmulai, spicules that are slightly 

 bent and compressed in the centre. 



The auxiliary apertures ( nebeu-mikrodioden), numbering 3-6, upon 

 the surface of the gemraulte, are worthy of notice. About every 

 tenth gemmule has, near the principal aperture, some lateral fun- 

 nels-; which fact makes this form resemble the species described by 

 (■arter from British Columbia, under the name of Spongilla multi- 

 poris. 



(b) Sub-gen. SPONGILLA, Wierzejuki. 



From 2-30 gemmulte as a rule, groujied in a common covering, 

 or placed pavement-like along side of one another. Mostly there is 

 a deep air-chamber-layer, through which smooth and rough spicules 

 are scattered. 




176 PROCKEDINCJS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



(3) Spongilla fragilis, Leidy. 



Syn.— 



1851 Spongilla fragiUti, Leidy. 



1863 " lord'd, Bowerbank. 



1870 " contecta, Noll. 



1878-84 " dberica, Dybowski. 



1883 " contecta, Retzer. 



1884 " fragilis, Vejdovsky. 



1885 " lordii, Wierzejski. 

 1885 " fragilis, 



1885 " ■ " Petr. 



1886 " glomerata, Noll. 



Colony not branched ; pale or brown in color, with large osculse 

 which, as a rule, are grouped in large cavities of the surface. Pores 

 numerous and small. Skeleton spicules, nearly straight or but 

 slightly bent; sharp-pointed, smooth, not rarely thickened in the 

 middle. Gemmulje spicules numerous, straight or curved, with 

 many minute spines. Gemmula3 small, spherical, Avith a high, 

 generally horn-shaped, polar tube, which is filled with air and 

 projects from the air-chamber-layer; the latter consists of large, 

 radial rows of cells. The groups of gemmulos, according to the 

 species (?) and the place of development, present two principal 

 forms; — the basal groups are shallow; and here the gemmula; are 

 placed pavement-like, close together; those formed in the parenchyma 

 consist of 2 or 3 — 30 and even more gemmulse, forming spherical 

 or hemispherical masses. 



This species, S. fragilis, first described by Leidy, in America, 

 was later described in Siberia by Dr. Ben. Dybowski, and finally 

 by Noll, as S. contecta (and S. glomerata). Recently it ha.« been 

 observed in Russia, (in Donee (Donetz?) near Charkow), iu 

 Galicia, Bohemia and England and has been described repeatedly 

 by Dybowski, Retzer, Carter, Vejdovsky, Wierzejcski and Petr. 



(B) Sub-Family, MEYENIN^, Carter. 

 Gemmulai generally single, surrounded by an air-chamber-layer 

 in which amphidiscs are embedded in one or moie series, one above 

 another. They are either star-shaped or have entire margins. 



(II) Gen. TROCHOSPONGILLA, Vejdovsky. 

 With smooth, (T. leidyi), or rough, (T. erenaceus), skeleton 

 spicules; amphidiscs smooth with entire margins, embedded at the 

 base of an air-chamber-layer. Only one species has been found 

 in Europe. 




1887,] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PrriLADKLPIirA. 177 



(4) Trochospongilla erenaceus, Ehrenbcrg. 



Syn:— 



1846 Spongilla erenacetis, Ehrenbcrg. 



1856 " " Lieberkiihii. 



1877 " " Vejdovsky. 



1881 Meyenia " Carter. 



1883 Trochospovfjllla erenacetis, Vejdovsky. 



1883 Spongilla " Re'tzer. 



1885 Trocliospongilla " Wierzejski. 



Trochospongilla is of considerable dimensions, covering foreign 

 bodies in cushion-like incrustations ; of a whitish or straw yellowish 

 color; skeleton spicules sharply pointed at both ends ; surface, except 

 at the extremities, covered with powerful spines. Parenchyma spic- 

 ules, correspondingly (?) small, smooth, and very often swollen in the 

 middle. Gemmulae covered with spool-like amphidiscs whose rotules 

 have entire margins. They lie at the base of a deep air-chamber- 

 layer which consists of radially j^laced hollow columns, that are 

 divided into a number of chambers by cross-paititions. 



Trochospongilla erenaceus has been observed in many places in 

 Europe. In Germany by Ehrenburg; in Bohemia by Vejdovsky; in 

 Galicia by Wierzejski, and in Russia by W. Dybowski. 



(Ill) Gen. EPHYDATIA Gray. Lamarck. 



Skeleton spicules either entirely smooth or entirely I'ough ; though 

 sometimes both forms are present together. In the air-chamber- 

 layers, around the gemmuhe, are embedded amphidiscs with star 

 shaped rotules, in one, two or three layers placed one over the other. 

 In the first instance they may be of equal length, but frequently 

 their lengths are unecjual. 



(5) Ephydatia mulleri, Lt-iberkiihn. 



Syn:- 



1816 Spongilla pulvinatn, Lamarck. 

 1856 " mulleri, Lieberkiihn. 



1877 " " Vejdovsky. 



1878 Trachyspongilla mulleri, Dybow.ski. 

 1882 Meyenia No. 2. 



1882 Ephydatia No. 2. 



1883 " mulleri, Vejdovsky. 



From A. Form B. var. astrodiscus, Vejdovsky. 

 1883 Ephydatia amphizona, part. 

 1883 Spongilla mirabilis, Retzer. 



1885 Meyenia mulleri, Wierzejski. 



1886 Ephydatia " Petr. 




178 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY or [1887. 



Colony cushion-like, rarely branched, bright green, yellow, 

 yellowish-brown or white, with large osculge, which lead to a system 

 of small canals. The skeleton spicules are either entirely smooth or 

 entii'ely rough or both forms are found together in the same colony. 

 Their degree of roughness is very different, as the spines are some- 

 times quite indistinct, at others very conspicuous. The spicules are 

 either straight or slightly curved ; sharp pointed and fasciculated 

 within a horny sheath. The gemmules are surrounded w^th shallow 

 apertures, slightly flattened from above downward through air-cham- 

 ber-layers of greater or less depth. Amphidiscs numerous; ordinarily 

 in a single layer, but sometimes in two layers (E. amphizona) and 

 occasionally in three layers (S. mirabilis), set one over the others. 

 In the last case the external layer forms an imperfect or broken 

 series of amphidiscs. The axes of the amphidiscs are short, relatively 

 to their thickness ; the rays either smooth or notched on their edges. 



Ephydatia mulleri is known in Europe, in Germany, Bohemia, 

 Russia, Galicia, and England. 



(6) Ephydatia fluviatilis, auct. 



Syn:- 



1788 Spongilla fluviatilis, (?) Linn. 

 1788 " canalium (?) " 



1816 " pulvinata (?) Lamarck. 



1842 " fluviatilis (?) Johnston. 



1856 " " Lieberkiihn. 



1863 " •' Bowerbank. 



1867 Ephydatia " Gray. 



1877 Spongilla " Vejdovsky. 



1881 Meyenia " Carter. 



1882 Ephydatia " Dybowski. 



1883 " " Vejdovsky. 

 1883 Spongilla " Retzer. 

 188-4 Ephydatia " Wierzejski. 

 1886 " " Petr. 



Amorphous, cushion-like colonies of an emerald, or bright Isabella- 

 yellow color. Skeleton spicules smooth throughout, slightly curved 

 and sharp-pointed. Parenchyma spicules (?) also smooth, small 

 and very slightly bent. Gemmulse small, yellow with a thick horn- 

 membrane; the external air-chamber-layer surrounded by a thin 

 chitinous covering. In this layer toothed amphidiscs are embedded, 

 having either smooth or spinous shafts that are constricted in the 

 middle and twice as long as the diameters of the rotulse. 



In Europe ^. /?wi;ta^i7is is found in France, England, Germany, 

 Bohemia, Galicia and Russia. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17') 



(7) Ephydatia bohemica, F. Petr. 



Syii. — 188G Ephydatia bohemica F. Petr. 



Colony very small, green, and is found living (parasitic or sym- 

 biotic) in the colonies of Euspongilla laciistri,^. Skeleton spicules 

 jitraight or slightly curved; at times covered with fine spines. 

 Parenchyma spicules numerous, straight or somewhat bent, covered 

 with spinous processes as in Carterius stepanotvii. Gemmulae with 

 large aperturas (mikrodioden) whose pole is expanded into a broad, 

 i rregular funnel. In the air-charaber-layer are embedded amphidiscs 

 of equal lengths; some of which, however, project above the surface 

 of the gemmulse. Their shafts are slender and longer than the 

 diameter of the nearly regular, star-shaped, terminal discs. The 

 rays of those discs are finely notched. Rarely does the mikrodiode 

 funnel run into a lengthened tube. 



Ephydatia bohemica is, a.s yet, found only in one place in Europe, 

 viz: in Kvii.«etic near Deutschbrod in Bohemia. 



This species is very characteristic, as it has a certain relationshij) 

 to, if it is not a transitional form of the following genus Carterius ; 

 in the fact that the amphidiscs are indistinctly of two lengths ; 

 and the tendency shown though rare, for the mikrodiode to lengthen 

 into a polar tube, which is so characteristic in Carteriius. 

 (IV) Gen. CAETEEITJS, Potts. 

 Syn. — Dosilia, Dybowski, Gray. 



Skeleton spicules smooth ; those of the parenchyma spinous. 

 iTemmuhe with a deep, straight air tube which terminates in an ir- 

 regular, lobulated disc. 



In the air-chamber-layer are embedded am})hidiscs of two lengths; 

 one set being as long as the thickness of the air-chamber-layers ; 

 the others, just as numerous (?), as the former, project beyond the 

 surface of the gemmuliie. 



(8) Carterius stepanowii, Petr. (Dybowski.) 



^yu — 



186'^ Sponyilia balleyi, (?)Bowerbank. 



1881 Meyenia " (?) Carter. 



1884 Dosilia stepanowii, Dybowski. 



1881 Carterius " Petr. 



Colony slender, branching, fine to fibrillar, (?) surrounding the 

 stems of water plants. It is of a bluish-green color ; dimensions in- 

 significant. Skeleton spicules smooth, straight or curved, sharp- 

 pointed. Parenchyma spicules numerous, bent or straight and 




180 PROCEKDINGS OF THIO ACADEMY OF [18'S7„. 



thickly set ^vitll spinos, which are largest at the middle of the spic- 

 ules. Genimulte inarketl by a polar air tube which is straight or 

 slightly bent, and terminated by a wavy, lobulated disc. The air- 

 chaniber-layer is formed of numerous small cells. Amphidisas of^ 

 two lengths, of which one third (u- even a half may project beyond 

 the surface of the air-chamber-layer. The arnjdiidiscs are thickly 

 set with spines. 



Carterius stepaiiowii was first discovered in a lake near Charkow 

 in Russia, and was in 1885 found in Bolicmia l)y F. Petr, in a pond 

 near Deutschbrod." 



The above paper of Prof Vejdovsky has been copied in full, as a 

 very valuable statement of the present status of the specific study 

 of fresh watei- si)onges in Europe, more particidarly upon the con- 

 tinent. 



Rynopsls. 



Of the plan of (.Classification ])roi)osed by H. d. Carter, F. K. S. 

 etc., (Ann. and Mag., Feb. 1881) already referred to, he says: — " I 

 found it necessary to make the fresh water sponges the fifth family 

 of my sixth order of the Sponglda generally, under the name of 

 " Potamospongida" with a single group, at present named "Spim- 

 gillina." Hence so far they will stand thus: — 



Class SPONGIDA. 



Order VI, HOLORHAPHIDOTA. 



t%ar. Possessing a skeleton whose fibre is entirely composed 

 of proper spicules, bound together by a minimum of sarcode. Form 

 of spicule variable. 



Family 5, POTAMOSPONGIDA. 



Freshwater Sponges. 



Group 19, SPONGILLINA. 



Char. Bearing seed like reproductive organs called stato- 

 blasts." 



To the five genera named by him, two have been added, to define 

 some recently discovered American types, so tliat the list now stands. 



Genera: — 1. Spongilla ; 2. Meyenla; 3. Heteromeyenia ; 4, Tubella; 

 b. Parmula; (>. Cartermn ; 7, Provisional, (the possible material for 

 a new group including JJruguaya, Lubomirskia, Potamolepis etc.) 



As has been intimated, these genera have been founded upon the 

 peculiarities of the gemmule-spicules, except in one instance, which 




1887.] NATURAL SCIKNCE8 OF I'HILADELPHIA. IHl 



K determined by otlier appendages of the gemnmlte. Assuming 

 (that the illustrations will sufficiently show the meaning of the spe- 

 dal terms used, the student is referred, witliout further preface to the 

 following "Key," by comparison with which he will without 

 hesitation be able to decide the r/eiteric status of his specimen. 

 Fuller definitions will be given as each genus comes under no- 

 lice. 



KKV TO THK GiiNEK.\ OF KKKSU WATKR si'oNCKs. Carter's System. 



1 . Gemmulje surrounded by acerate (PI. A^II c.c.c) or cylindrical 



(PI. VII b.b.b) spicules alone. TPlate V, figs, i, ii, 

 [[[ \ Spongilla. 



2. " surrounded by birotulate (PI, fX. %. iii. b.b.b etc.) 



spicules of a single cla.ss or type,^ resting by one 

 (the proximal) rotule upon the chitinous coat ; 

 diameters of the rotules equal or nearly so. (PI. 

 V, fig. iv, V and vi.) Mkyenia. 



3. " surrounded by birotulate spicides of /(ro classes or 



types, both resting by one rotule u])on the chitin- 

 ous coat ; the less numerous class longer than the 

 other. (PI. VI, fig. i,) (PL XL b.c. etc.) 



Hetekomeyenia. 



4. " surrounded by iniequibirotulatespicules(Pl. XII fig. 



i, ii, and iii. b.c.d. etc.) of which the proximal ro- 

 tule is much larger than the distal one. (PI. VI. fig. 



ii.) TUHELLA. 



T). " whose "crust" is charged with spi(!ules from which 



the distal rotule has been entirely eliminated, leav- 

 ing the proximal rotule surmounted only by a 

 short, pointed portion of the shafit, (See Ann. and 

 Mag. 1881, PL 5, figs. 1 and 2.) Parmula. 



'6, " whose foraminal tubules are prolonged, their ter- 



minations broadly funnel-shaped or divided into 

 cirrous appendages of varying numbers and 

 lengths. (1^1. VI, figs, iii, iv, v and vi.) 



Carterius. 



' Specimens are occasionally found with birotulates of a single type arranged 

 in two or three concentric series. For this form Mr. H. Mills proposed (Proc. 

 Am. Soc. of Microscopists, 1884) the new genus Pleiomeyenia; while Prof. 

 Vejdovsky has merged two species named on account of the same peculiarity into 

 the common species E. miilleri. See "Diagnosis." 




182 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



7. Sponges in which no gemmulre have yet been discovered 

 and whose classification may therefore be consid- 

 ered doubtful. Uruguaya, Carter, (Ann, and 

 Mag. etc. 1881. p. 100 and PI. VI. fig. 17.); 

 Lubomirskla, Pallas. Potamolepis, Marshall, 

 (Zeit. fiir Naturwissenschaften XVI. N. F. IX IM 

 and Taf XXIV.) 

 (Particular attention is invited to the illustrations, from plates 

 prepared by the Photo-Engraving Co. (N. Y.). Plates Nos. V and 

 VI are from original drawings by Dr. C. W. de Lannoy, and repre- 

 sent either the whole or portions of gemmules, with their associated 

 spicules, to explain the typical characteristics of the different genera. 

 They are variously magnified as suited his several subjects. Plates 

 VII-XII incl. are also from original drawings, magnificently executed 

 by Miss. S. G. Foulke. They include altogether thirty-six separate 

 groups, representing every class of sjiicules, in an equal number of 

 species or varieties, all equally magnified and drawn to scale. They 

 may therefore be relied upon as depicting the spicules as the student 

 himself will see them ; neither diagrammatic nor idealized. The 

 power used was 400 diameters, which has been reduced upon the 

 plates to one half, say 200 diameters.) 



(The measurements accompanying the descriptions of nearly all the 

 North American species are averages resulting from micrometric 

 measurement of from 15 to 30 individual spicules, and may be con- 

 viently reduced to millimeters by moving the decimal point two 

 places to the right and dividing by four. The variability iu differ- 

 ent specimens is so great that I cannot regard any measurements as 

 of exact specific value.) 



(I) Gen. SPONGILLA, Caitor. 



Part of old genus SpongUla, Auct. (Plate V, figs, i, ii and iii.) 

 Gen. Char. Skeleton spicules acerate, generally smooth, curved, 

 fusiform, pointed ; mostly accompanied by flesh spicules. Gemmu- 

 Ise globular ; crust variable iu thickness or absent altogether ; ac- 

 companied by or charged with minute acerates, (PL V, b.b.b. also 

 PL VII b.b.) smooth or spined, imbedded in or lying upon it or on 

 the chitinous coat. Modified from Carter. 



When the old genus SpongUla of authors Avas sub-divided by Mr. 

 Carter in 1881, this term was very appropriately restricted to that 

 type which includes the species most widely diffused and most fre- 

 quently noticed throughout the world. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ISo 



The following brief summaries of specific points may serve a,s a 

 guide to the intending student, enabling him at a glance to sele(^t 

 the species which his specimen most nearly resembles, without hav- 

 ing to read many pages of inapposite matter. (It must be remarked 

 in explanation of the omission of some names, that the verbal de- 

 scriptions of some of the older species, as copied from their authors, 

 fail to give diferential points that can be made use of in this con- 

 nection. In the treatment of my own discoveries or those of othem 

 that have come to me for examination, I have desired to be thor- 

 oughly conservative, grouping those together that have an un- 

 doubted relation to one another and not creating either species or 

 varieties unless they appear necessary to aid in study of the subject. 

 I hesitate however to drop species, the type specimens of which I 

 have never seen ; although it is probable some of them might be- 

 come synonyms to advantage.) 



KEY TO THE SPECIES OF THE GENUS SPONGILI.A. 



(a) Sponge hranchmg. 



1. Slender, cylindrical, waving branches ; dermal spicules minute 

 smooth acerates; gemmules few, sponge evergreen. (PI. VIII 

 (fig. vi. 6'. aspinosa. 



2. Branches generally tapering, rigid ; less frequently cylindrical 

 and flaccid ; skeleton spicules smooth ; dermaLs pointed, spined 

 acerates ; gemmules after maturity numerous ; with or without 

 granular crust ; spicules cylindrical, curved, spined. (PI. VII, 

 figs, i-vi.) *S'. lacustru. 



3. Branches small; crust ot gemmules thin, spicules smooth. 



S. rhenana 

 (b) Sub-branched. 



4. Spines of dermal spicules longest at the centre; gemmule spicule 

 round-ended, covered with recurved spines. 



S. alba. 



5. Short compressed branches; gemmule spicules at various angles. 



S. cerebellata. 



(c) Sponge without branches. 



6. Gemmulse with thick crust of polyhedral cells arranged per- 

 pendicularly; spicules of gemmulse smooth. S. carteri. 



7. Crust as in the last species ; a layer of minute spined acerates 

 intervened between it and the chitinous body, besides that which 

 is exterior to it. S. nitens. 




184 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



•<S. Spicules of gemmulse very short, trapezoidal. Gemmule adherent, 



elliptical ; aperture terminal. 



S. navicella. 

 it. Capsule around the i^'enimule, and chitinous body both spiculif- 



erous. S. bombayensis. 



1 0. Shafts of gemmule spicules smooth ; heads composed of numer- 

 ous short bluut or subacute spines. 6'. hofryoides. 



11. Gemnuile spicules spxned, particularly near the head. 



8. sceptrioides. 



12. Color cinereous. • S. cinerea. 



13. Gemmules in layers or groups; a])ertures tipward or outward; 

 surrounded by a cellular parenchyma, charged with subcylin- 

 drical, spined spicules. (PI. V fig. ii.) (PL VIII figs, i to iv.) 



S. Jragilis. 



1 4. Gemmules in hemispherical groups ; apertures inward ; sur- 

 rounded by a parenchyma of unequal cells, charged with 

 coarsely spined spicules, nearly as long as the less strongly 

 spiniferous skeleton spicules. (PI. V, fig. iii.) (PI. VIII, fig. v.) 



S. iglovlformis. 



15. Resembling the above, but with spines more broadly conical, 

 etc. ' 8. maekayi. 



\(). Parasitic on S. nitens, with minute, curved dermal birotiilate. 



S' hdhmii. 

 17. Gemmules very large, chitinous coat thin ; crust absent or incon- 

 spicuous ; gemmule spicules smooth, or irregularly furnished with 

 very long spines, frequently located near the extremities. 

 Numerous dermal birotulates. S. novce terrce. 



(a) Sponge (mat branched. 



(1) Spongilla aspinosa, Potts. (PI. VIII, lig. vi.) Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. Nor. 

 1880, p. .357 etc. 



Sponge green, encrusting, thin; upon a relatively thick basal 

 membrane; thence sending out numerous radiating, long, slender, 

 cylindrical branches, occasionally subdividing : texture very loose ; 

 .•surface rather smooth, pores conspicuous. 



Gemmules very few in scattered bunches of ten to twenty or 

 more, small, spherical, with a granular crust, surrounded by an 

 irregular mass of spicules, resembling those of the skeleton. 



''Spongilla arac/inoidea," named by H. James-Clark (Am. Journ. Sci. 1871 

 p. 426), and ''Siphydora echinoides" by the same author ("Mind in Nature" p. 

 41, 1865) are not accompanied by such descriptions as will enable me to classify 

 them intelligently. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 185 



Skeleton spicules smooth, straight or slightly curved, rather 

 abruptly pointed ; an occasional one acuate or malformed. 



Outer dermal film charged with minute, straight or curved, 

 smooth, slender, gradually pointed acerates. 



Approximate measurements. — Diameter of gemmules 0'02 inches. 



Skeleton spicules 0"0113 by O'OOOoo inches. Length of dermal 

 .spicules 0*00144 inches. 



Habitat. Upon logs and timbers several feet below the surface 

 of clear standing water, or upon sphagnum, grass, weeds etc. near 

 the surface. 



Locality. Collected at Doughty's Pond, Absecum, New Jersey ; 

 Brown's Mills, N. J.; Deep Creek near Portsmouth, Virginia etc. 



Remarks. — This sponge was first collected by Mr. E. P. Cheyney, 

 a very acute observer, during the summer of 1879 or 1880 in one 

 of the Cedar swamps, near the New Jersey coast. In October 1881, 

 the writer liimself collected it, and since that date it has been the 

 subject of frequent and careful observations. Doubt was at first 

 felt as to whether the apparent branches were really self-supporting; 

 but this wjis long since set at rest and the species is now seen to 

 stand securely near S. lacustris, but not of it. Some interest may 

 be felt in the following description of its favorite and characteristic 

 locality. 



The S. E. portion of the State of New Jersey is, for the most part, 

 a broad sandy plain, not greatly elevated above tide level. It was 

 formerly covered by a dense growth, chiefly of "scrub" pines, and 

 was known as the "Pine Barrens." The few depressions through 

 this district form water courses, along which the drainage of the 

 surrounding neighborhood cre^jn^ sullenly, through jungles of 

 cedar mingled with maple, magnolia, and other deciduous growths. 

 Just before Absecum Creek, which has thus wandered for miles 

 through densely wooded cedar and maple swamps, finally loses its 

 identity in the "Thoroughfare," that wunds for many a mile among 

 the still flatter marsh lands that line the coast, a low mill-dam 

 checks its course, and forces it to spread its clear, dark waters over 

 acres of refreshing pools, dotted with reed-fringed islets. Here, in 

 clumps, grow the curious leaves and umbrella-like flowers of the 

 American I'itcher Plant; on the margin of the pond are many 

 orchids, those most aristocratic of flowers; in the hollows the Droseras 

 or Sundews are doing their best to entrap a few of our insect 

 enemies. The trees, that, years before, had darkened the glen with 



13 




186 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



their shade, killed by the too abundant water, now stand gaunt 

 and desolate above it, "bearded with moss" that hangs and flutters 

 from their otherwise naked branches. 



At many places in this beautiful pond the fallen timbers, water- 

 logged at depths of three to six feet, are lined for yards with this 

 sponge; sometimes only as a smooth, green, enveloping sheet, but at 

 other places reaching out long, radiating branches for six inches or 

 more, swayed delightfully by the clear current. Not only in the 

 "perfect days" of June or through the heats of mid-summer, is the 

 sponge thus verdant and thrifty ; but when December has robbed 

 the lake of most of its vegetable forms, — even after February has 

 for weeks covered it with a thick sheet of ice, the sponge has been 

 seen still green and apparently in as healthy growth as ever. 



Concurrently with this evergreen habit, we notice the unusual 

 scarcity of gemraules at all times of the year, and feel warranted in 

 inferring that, gifted as it is with this ability to with-stand a low 

 temperature in its growing state, it does not need to form "protected 

 gemmules" to conserve its life during hybernation. 



In the microscopical study of S. aspinosa, the distinctive feature 

 is, undoubtedly, the presence upon the dermal film and amongst 

 the generally smooth, slender, skeleton spicules, of great numbers of 

 minute smooth acerates. These are not altogether uniform in size, 

 however ; and enough of an intermediate character are occasionally 

 seen, to suggest the possibility that they may be merely initial and 

 immature conditions of the skeleton spicules. The continued per- 

 ennial growth of the sponge, makes this supposition the more probable; 

 as there is no season in which, as in the case of most other sponges, 

 it may be said to have reached maturity or completeness. In some 

 preparations of it, aborted forms of skeleton spicules are found in 

 considerable numbers and spherical or discoidal masses of silica, 

 without spinous prolongations, or with but a single spine, are not 

 infrequently met with. 

 (2) Spongilla lacustris, Linn. (PI. V, fig. 1; PI. VII.) 



"Branched ; branches long, round and sharp-pointed. Color dark 

 brown, structure fibrous. Skeleton spicule curved, fusiform, grad- 

 ually sharp pointed, smooth; sometimes more or less spiniferous. 

 Flesh spicule thin, curved, fusiform, gradually sharp-pointed, spiued 

 throughout. Statoblast when fully developed globular ; crust com- 

 posed of granular cell-structure, charged with more or less curved, 

 minute, stout, fusiform, sharp pointed acerates, covered with stout 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 187 



recurved spines, arranged tangentially, or centrifugally, like the 

 lines of a so-called "engine-turned" watch case." Carter, (Ann. 

 etc. 1881.) 



Syn. European: — See Vejdovsky "Diagnosis" under Euspon- 

 gilla lacustrls. p. 172, etc. 

 Syn. American: — 



1863 Spong ilia pauper cida, Bowerbank. 

 1863 " dawsoni " 



1875 " fiexispina, Dawson. 



1879 " laeustr hides, Potts. 



1880 " abortiva, 

 1880 " mutica, 



1880 " viontana, 



1881 " muliijoris, Carter. 

 1884 " lehighensis, Potts. 



As this is the most widely known of all the fresh water sponges, 

 and deserves a full and careful treatment, besides the analysis of it 

 given by Prof. Vejdovsky, under his name Euspongilla lacustris, 

 I have also copied Mr. Carter's description above, and now append 

 the result of my own observations, founded upon collections in all 

 parts of this country. 



As found in infinite numbers of situations and variety of forms in 

 North America, this sponge is green, when growing, as it does by 

 preference, in the light: from a sessile base freely and repeatedly 

 branching; branches cylindrical or more or less tapering; bristling 

 with the points of radiating spicules ; ends of the branches pointed 

 or rounded. Texture loose; the branching processes made up of 

 thick longitudinal lines of fa.sciculated spicules, united by single 

 spicules or more slender fascicles, in a radiating manner. Pores 

 numerous, large. 



Gemmules sub-spherical, often scarce until late in the year, 

 (November) when they are formed quite plentifully in the inter- 

 spicular spaces, not only in the sessile portion, but throughout the 

 branches of the sponge. Granular crust of the gemmules very 

 variable in thickness ; in some forms altogether wanting. Foraminal 

 aperture infundibular. 



Skeleton spicules curved, fusiform, gradually sharp pointed, al- 

 most uniformly smooth. 



Dermal or flesh spicules variable in number, but generally very 

 numerous ; curved, fusiform, gradually tapering to sharp points ; 

 densely and entirely spined. 




188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY Ol' [1887. 



Gemmule spicules generally cylindrical, much and variably curved; 

 somewhat sparsely spined ; spines more numerous near the extrem- 

 ities, where they are long, acute, and frequently recurved. Upon 

 the gemmules they vary from a horizontal to a nearly erect position, 

 according to the thickness of the crust, and for the same reason 

 are sometimes wanting and at others very numerous. 



Hah. On stones and timbers everywhere ; preferring running 

 water, 



MeasuremenU. Diameter of gemmules 0.02 inches. Average 

 length of skeleton spicules about 0.0108 inches. 



Remarks. — Spongilla lacustris is certainly not introduced in 

 tliis connection on account of any claims I desire to make as to au- 

 thorship or discovery ; but ratlier in the way of recantation or con- 

 fession that in times past I have so frequently mistaken this name- 

 child of the great Linnseus, clucking to it as one of my own little brood. 

 Indeed it is to save others from a similar e.xperience that I am par- 

 ticular to make this identification. 



This species was one of the earliest known ; though for years the 

 distinction between it and Spongilla (now Meyenia,) fluviatilis was 

 far from clear. It has been found in nearly all j)arts of the world 

 where any sponges have been discovered. While many of the fresli 

 water sponges appear to shun the light S. lacustris comes out boldly 

 and flourishes in the full sunshine. For this reason and because of 

 its resultant brilliant green color and its conspicuous branching 

 habit, this sponge is better known than any other, and is more fre- 

 quently gathered by the non-expert collector. I have received it 

 from nearly all my correspondents in the United States and from 

 almost every locality in which any have been collected. 



In every place it prefers ra|Didly running water, where its growth 

 is strong and vigorous. Perhaps my finest specimens were gathered 

 at a place in Chester Creek, Pennsylvania, where the stream was 

 narroAved to a width of ten or twelve feet, rushing between large 

 masses of rock, many of which were coated with the sessile sponge 

 and beaii^fully fringed with tapering finger-like processes, one half 

 inch or more in diameter by several inches in length. In standing 

 pools, on the contrary, it grows in slender cylindrical branches; a.s 

 in the subsiding reservoirs on Fairmount Hill, Philadelphia, where 

 it appears in slender, flaccid, yellow-green branches, with hardly 




1887.] NATURAL SCIKNCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 189 



sufficient vitality to support themselves above the mud, slowly gath- 

 ering around them.' 



While S. lacustris is exti-emeiy variable, as to some particulars, 

 upon this continent, (as Prof. Vejdovsky describes it to be also in 

 Europe), in essentials the synonym.s I have named resemble onfe 

 another and the European type. These essentials, for comparison , 

 I again describe as follows : — 



Ist. In general appearance, a green, branching sponge. 

 2nd. Skeleton made up of smooth, fasciculated spicules. 

 8rd. Dermal or flesh spicules, fusiform acerates, entirely spined, 



pointed. 

 4tli. Gemmule spicules, whether few or many, generally cylindri- 

 cal, more or less curved, rather sparsely spined, spines often 

 recurved, acute, 

 .'ith. Gemmules either apparently wanting or abundant throughout 

 the sponge ; with or without granular crust. 

 As all the sponges above named will bear this description, I can- 

 not see sufficient reason for separating them from the typical form, 

 but many for grouping all together. Some, whose peculiarities are 

 most conspicuous, will be briefly described as varieties. 



S. lacustris, var. paupercula, Bowerbank. Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond. I86;i p. 470. 



"Sponge coating and branching ; surface smooth. 0.scula and 

 pores inconspicuous. Dermal menbrane aspiculous (?). Skeleton 

 spicules fusiform-acerate, stout and rather short. Interstitial mem- 

 branes aspiculous. Ovaries globular, smooth ; spicula acerate, 

 small, few in number." Bowerbank. 

 • Loc. Water pipes of Boston, Mass. 



S. paupercxda, Bk. is, perhaps, that one of this group of synonyms 

 about whose identity with S. lacustris there may be most hesitation. 

 Its character is somewhat anomalous, as its locality and associations 

 are peculiar. (See remarks jus to M. JiuviMilis, v. acuminata.) Grow- 

 ing originally in the ponds and reservoirs tributary to the BostoJi 

 water-supply, it moved forward, and even so early as 1856 Prof 

 J. W. Bailey wrote to Dr. Bowerbank that "it grows abundantly in 

 the water pipes (aquetlucts ?) by which the city of Boston is sup- 

 plied with water from a small lake"; adding a suggestion as to the 



'This is thus far the only instance in which I have found any sponge apparently 

 growing upon a mud bottom ; and even here it was doubtless planted upon some- 

 thing firmer, and tlie length of its branches was ))robably induced by the effort to 

 lift itself up into greater purity and freedom. 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



possible diminution of the water way and contamination of the drink- 

 ing water by its further growth. 



I have not had an opportunity to examine the type specimen from 

 which the above description by Dr. Bowerbank was prepared, but 

 from the study of fragments received from Mr. Desmond Fitz- 

 Gerald, Chief Engineer of the Boston Water Department, collected 

 by him from Farm Pond and Cochituate Reservoir, near the head of 

 the water system of that city (in all probability the same that Dr. 

 Bowerbank describes), I am induced to class this as one of the many 

 varieties of S. lacustris. In the dry state the sponge is very friable 

 and its dermal surface soon crumbles off, which may in a measure ac- 

 count for the apparent absence of dermal and interstitial spicules 

 from Dr. B's specimens. Mr. H. J. Carter records the finding of 

 acerate, dermal spicules in those received by him from the same local- 

 ity, and I have found them, though few in number, in the fragments 

 sent to me. We may regard, therefore, the dermal and interstitial 

 surfaces of S. paupercula as not aspiculous and assert that those 

 found are not entirely smooth ; as in nearly all a few spines may be 

 discovered, particularly near the extremities. 



The gemmule spicules are equally scarce and without pronounced 

 character ; their relative smoothness and greater proportionate length 

 than in most other forms of this species are the noteworthy points. 

 The gemmules are quite numerous, large and entirely devoid of 

 "crust." Their shrunken contents, appearing through the transparent, 

 crustless chitin, give them a peculiar waxen cast. It will be noted, 

 as has before been incidentally mentioned, that in this, as in other 

 cases, a paucity of gemmule spicules attends, as a necessary conse- 

 (jjuence, the absence of an enveloping crust. 



S. laoustris, var. dawsoni, Bowerbank. Proc. Zool. Sor. London ISO.'i pg. 4tJ7. 

 "Sponge sessile, branching ; surface smooth. Oscula and pores 

 inconspicuous. Dermal and interstitial membranes abundantly 

 spiculous ; spicula fusiform-acerate, entirely spined ; spines numer- 

 ous, short and conical. Skeleton spicula acerate or sub-fusiform- 

 acerate. Ovaria spherical ; dermal spicula numerous, disposed in 

 flat fasciculi or groups of spicules })arallel to each other (?) ; groups 

 irregularly dispersed ; spicula acerate or sub-cylindrical, entirely 

 spined; spines numerous, obtuse and ill defined. Sarcode aspiculous. 

 Color in the dried state emerald green." Bowerbank. 

 tS. fiexispma, Dawson. Syn. Canadian Nat. and Geol. Sept. 1875. 

 /S'. lacustrioides. Potts, Syn. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 191 



This name was at first suggested under the belief that a distinct 

 specific difference existed between the European and the American 

 forms ; an idea that has long since been given up. I now think the 

 resemblance of these forms is quite as close as that of most of those 

 grouped under this name in North America. 

 S. mutica, Potts, Syn. 



This term was applied to an ordinary form of S. lacustris during 

 the earlier part of my explorations, before I had learned that it wavS 

 a very common habit of this species to be without botli "crust" and 

 gemmule spicules. 



S. lacustris, var. abortiva, Potts. 



The name abortiva was given to a form of S. lacustris first noticed 

 at Fairmount Dam, Philadelphia, in which careful examination 

 during the summer and autumn mouths of several years, had failed 

 to discover any geramules. About the 22nd of November 1883, 

 however, upon again collecting the sponge in its original locality, 

 I found, in one instance, the green sarcode leaving the lines of 

 skeleton spicules and collecting in spots, where, a few days later, 

 were found well detined but immature gemmules, entirely smooth 

 and of a vivid green color; — a feature that lasted all winter. Some 

 fragments in this condition were brought into the house and the 

 warmth of the room was found not merely to retard the completion 

 of the gemmules, but in many cases, to reverse the flow of the 

 amoeboid particles, which began to reform and rebuild the skeleton 

 frame-work. 



To quote froni my note book of that date; — "The appearance of 

 the sponge as now found, was as if the cells of green sarcode had 

 congested or gathered together from their normal position upon 

 the supporting spicules and had just formed immature statoblasts 

 with a very delicate chitinous covering and as yet without either a 

 granular crust or embedded spicules. The skeleton spicules in most 

 cases were entirely bare and the statoblasts bright green ." Of another 

 specimen of the same sponge it is remarked. — "This resembled the 

 last mentioned gathering, except that in some places the statoblasts 

 were merely localized by a gradual flowing together of the green 

 sarcode into spots; and the globular shape and chitinous coat of the 

 gemmules had not yet been attained." 



The whole of this observation has been of great interest to me 

 first, as indicating the necessity of caution in accepting statements, 

 asserting the entire absence of gemmules from sponges collected by 




192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



indifferent observers from remote districts, where their life history- 

 has never been followed; — next, from the light thrown upon the 

 character of these bodies; — that they are probably neither ova nor 

 ovaria,in any proper sense; but may begems or gemmules, just as, in 

 the vegetable world, we regard the buds of trees, bulbs, tubers etc ; — 

 places where the vital particles of the animal or the plant retire for 

 protection during the winter season and for successful distribution 

 in the spring: further, tliat this act is coincident with the di.-^ 

 appearance, at least partially, of the sarcode from those parts of the 

 sponge where the gemmules are found; and that it takes place in 

 different situations and with varying species, at widely different 

 seasons of the year. 



S. laciistris, var. montana, Pott^:. (PI. VII. fig. vi.) Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 

 1880 p. 357. 



This variety was first sent to me by Prof. E. D. Cope, as collected 

 in the well known Lake near the Mountain House on Catskill Mts., 

 N. Y., at an elevation popularly stated to be 2500 feet above tide. 

 Afterward, at my request. Dr. J. G. Hunt kindly sought for and 

 found it at the same locality. As received from the latter collector 

 the sponge was bright green with slender cylindrical branches. 



Gemmules quite numerous throughout the sponge ; often naked, 

 but also frequently covered by a thick crust and an abundance of 

 spicules, that are placed in a nearly erect position, embedded in the 

 crust. 



Skeleton spicules long, very slender, cylindrical, abruptly pointed. 



Dermal spicules apparently very scarce, slender, minute acerates ; 

 entirely spined. (None are represented in the drawing.) 



Gemmule spicules slender, cylindrical ; more sparsely spined ; 

 spines erect, long, cylindrical ; terminations rounded. 



Meas. Diameter of gemmules 0.015 inches. Skeleton spicules, 

 0.0096 by 0.00015 inches. Length of dermal spicules 0.00375 ; of 

 gemmule spicules 0.002 inches. 



This sponge in all its parts is a very slender edition of iS. lactisfris 

 but I think deserves a varietal designation. 



S. lacustris, var. multiforis, Carter. Ann. etc. 1881, p. 88. 



I understand Mr. Carter to agree with me in now regarding this 

 as a variety of S. lacustris ; the multiple openings being probably 

 the result, in degree, of over maturity. There are no distinctive 

 features except that the skeleton spicules in the fragments sent me 

 are unusually large. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. T.li 



S.lacustris, vsir. lehighensis, Potts. (PI. VII, fig. v.) 



In this variety we find the skeleton and dermal spicules normal, 

 while those of the gemmules are disproportionately large. Tlu^ 

 gemmule itself is relatively small, with an unusually thick granular 

 crust, thi'ough which, embedded like chevaux de frise, the spicules 

 project their points, crossing their lines in every direction. These 

 are long, cylindrical, with long spines ; those near the extremities 

 often recurved ; terminations acute. 



Loc. Lehigh river Pennsylvania, near White Haven. 



Meas. Diameter of gemmule 0.016 inches. Skeleton spicules 

 0.01035 by 0.00045 inches. Length of dermal spicule 0.002 ; of 

 gemmule spicule 0.004 inches. 



A somewhat similar form was collected at May's Landing, NevN 

 Jersey; but in this the chitinous body was very thick ; the granu- 

 lar crust less conspicuous ; the spicules fcAver, larger, and less regu- 

 lar in position and character, (PI. VII, fig. iv.) It may be briefiy 

 described thus : — 



Sponge green, encrusting ; not conspicuously branched. 



Gemmules small, crust thin, enveloped in a specialized capsule of 

 interlacing skeleton spicules. 



Skeleton spicules stout, sub-fusiform, smooth, gradually pointed. 



Dermal spicules rather large. 



Gemmule sj^icules variably rol)ust, abundantly spined ; spine.< 

 long, acute, retrorse. 



Meas. Length of skeleton sjjicules 0.0105 ; of dermal spicule-s 

 0.0021 ; of gemmule spicules 0.004 inches. 



Loc. May's Landing, IS^. J. 



(8) Spongilla (Euspongillai rhenana, Rctzer. Sec •■Diagnosis." p. 174, etc. 

 (4) Spongilla alba, (iutur. Ann. etc. I SSI p. S8. 



"Massive, spreading, sub-branched. Structure fragile, tomentosc. 

 Color whitish. Skeleton spicule curved, fusiform, gradually sharj)- 

 pointed, smooth. Flesh spicule thin, curved, fusiform, covered with 

 spines, longest in the centre where they are veitical and obtuse. 

 Statoblast globular ; aperture infundibular ; crust thick, white; com- 

 posed of granular cell-structure, charged with minute thick acerates, 

 which are curved, cylindrical, round at the ends, covered with spines 

 (especially about the extremities where they are longest and much 

 recurved), arranged tangentially, intercrossing each other like the 

 lines of an engine-turned watch-case." Carter. 



Loc. Bombay. 




194 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Mr. Carter observes : — "The spicules of the statoblast here as well 

 lis in S. lacustris are considerably stouter, more curved, cylindrical 

 and more coarsely spined than the ftesh spicules of the sponge gen- 

 •e rally." 



(5) S. cerebellata, Bk Proc. Zoo!. Soc. 1863 p. 465. 



Carter thinks this is but a variety of the preceding species. 



(b.) /Sponge not branched. 



(6) Spongilla carteri, Bowerbarik. (S. friabilis,) Cartar. Proc. Zool. Soc. etc., 

 1,S63, p. 469. 



"Sponge massive, sessile. Color greenish or faint whitish yellow; 

 structure fragile, crumbling. Skeleton spicule smooth, fusiform, 

 curved, gradually sharp-pointed. Statoblast globular; aperture 

 infundibular ; crust composed of pyramidal columns of dodecahedral 

 or polyhedral cells, hexagonal in the section, regularly arranged 

 one above another in juxtaposition, perpendicularly to the outside 

 of the chitinous coat, on which they rest ; surrounded by a layer of 

 minute fusiform, curved and gradually sharp-pointed, smooth acer- 

 Ates." Carter. 



Loc. Bombay, Mauritius etc. 



In the spring of 1885 specimens of this sponge were kindly sent 

 to me by Col. Nicolas Pike of Brooklyn, New York, who had collec- 

 ted them many years before, while United States Consul at Mauri- 

 tius. He writes: — "The specimens sent you were gathered by me 

 at the Botanical Gardens, Pamplemousses, Mauritius. They were 

 found growing in masses five or six inches in width, three inches 

 thick and about four in depth. They fringed the southerly side of 

 the pond about a foot below the surface of the water. They were very 

 green when first taken and rather firm in texture. They covered a 

 very limited area in this pond and were not found elscAvhere on the 

 island." 



The courtesy of this gentleman has enabled me to observe a pecul- 

 iarity in the gemmules of his collection that was not mentioned as 

 to those from Bombay. While many of them appear to corresjwnd 

 with Mr. Carter's description above: — "aperture infundibular," 

 I find many others having a tubular prolongation of the foraminal 

 orifice, of a length fully one fourth the diameter of the gemmule. 

 These tubules are surrounded like the rest of the chitinous body with 

 columns of relatively large polyhedral cells ; and as they partake of 

 the brittleness of the sponge when dry, I fancy they must often be 

 broken off and lost in carriage. 




1 887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 195 



(7) Spongilla nitens, Carter. Ann. etc. 1881, p. 89. 



"Form of sponge unknown. Structure reticulate; fibre rigid, 

 composed of bundles of spicules united by a transparent colorless 

 sarcode, which, in the dried state, gives it a hardness and vitreou.s 

 appearance like that of Spongilla corallioides Bk. Skeleton spicule 

 Curved, cylindrical, smooth, sometimes . very sliglitly inflated in the 

 centre and at the extremities, which are round. Statoblast globular; 

 aperture infundibular; crust composed of pyramidal columns of do- 

 decahedral or polyhedral cells hexagonal in the section, regularly 

 arranged one above another, in juxtaposition, perpendicularly to 

 tlie outside of the chitinous coat, on which, by the intervention of a 

 layer of the statoblast spicules, they rest ; surrounded by a layer of 

 minute, fusiform, curved acerates, thickly spined, especially over the 

 ends, where the spines are longest and recurved, arranged tangent- 

 ially ; the same kind of layer immediately round the chitinous coat, 

 where the spicules appear to be intermixed with the lower cells of 

 the crust, leaving the latter free between the two." Carter. 



Loc. Unknown ; probably South America. River Ugalla, 

 near Lake Tanganyika, Central Africa. (See Spongilla bbhniii.) 



(8) Spongilla navicella, Carter. Ann. etc. 1881, p. 87. 



"Sponge unknown. Skeleton spicule curved, fusiform, smooth, 

 gradually sharp-])ointed. Statoblast adherent to the tw'ig on which 

 the sponge had grown ; globoelliptical ; aperture terminal, infundi- 

 bular ; no apparent crust ; chitinous coat encased with a dense lay- 

 er of minute, stout, short, tliick, more or less curved, fusiform, 

 smooth acerates, variable in size, becoming so short internally, (that 

 is where they arc in immediate contact with the chitinous coat,) a.s 

 to be trapezoidal or like a little boat or "cocked hat," according to 

 direction in which they are viewed ; arranged tangentially, crossing 

 each other." Carter. 



Loc. River Amazons, S. A. 



To the above description by Mr. Carter I am able to add but lit- 

 tle that is positive, excepting that so far as it goes it is most accu- 

 rate. Upon a leaf connected with the twig that suj^ports a specimen of 

 Parmula hrownii, var., received from Dr. Rusby, I find a dozen or 

 more gemmules, easily identified as belonging to this species. They 

 are sometimes entirely solitary ; sometimes in groups of two to four or 

 more of varying sizes, but without other association than the interven- 

 tion of some grayish sedimentary matter that has not been proven to 

 belong to a parent sponge. In no case do I find evidences of envelop- 




196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



ing skeleton sj)icules, excepting that immediately under and around 

 eachgemmule it is seentobe])uttressed and supported by scores of spic- 

 ules of a skeleton type, resting against it at many angles, and at- 

 taching it to the supporting surface, as Mr. Carter has said. 

 These, by the way, are obscurely microspined. The aperture of tlie 

 slightly elliptical, or pro-sphjeroidal gemmule, is always found at one 

 of its poles, and is prolonged into a tubule of moderate length, pro- 

 voking the comparison to a tortoise witli its head protruded. Thct 

 layer of gemmule-spicules is "dense" because they are not crossed 

 but lie nearly parallel with each other as if stroked with a brush 

 and in a nearly transverse direction, corresponding with the shorter 

 axis of the ellipse. 



The normal character of the living sponge remains, as Carter left 

 it, an unsatisfied problem ; but the absence of surrounding spicules* 

 suggests to me the ])ossibility that the minute body of Spongilla nav- 

 icella is simply a firmer sareode unsupported by a skeleton frame 

 woi-k. 



(9) Spongilla bombayensis, Carter. Ann. ute. 1882, p. .369. 



"General form of sponge unknown. Statoblast sessile, globulai-, 

 more or less grouped and firmly attached to the stems of the her- 

 baceous plant upon which it had grown ; variable in size under ^r 

 of an inch diameter, composed of a spiculiferous capsule, a chitinoa'* 

 coat, which is also spiculiferous, and the asual germinal contents, 

 but no distinct cellular coat. Spicules of the statoblast slightly 

 curved, thick, cylindrical, more or less obtuse at the ends ; about 

 9 by 2-6000 ths. of an inch in greatest dimensions ; and another 

 comparatively thin, fusiform, and more or less pointed at the ends, 

 about 10 by 1-6000 ths. inches in greatest dimensions; both thickly 

 spined, and varying in stoutness inversely with their proximity to the 

 surface ; arranged horizontally, so that the ends do not project beyond 

 the level of the statoblast, where they more or less cross each other 

 and are held together by granules (the microcell structure?); aji- 

 pearing also in the cliitinous coat when they do not cross each other 

 but form a sbujle layer, in which the spicules lie more or less paral- 

 lel to each other in various directions, so as to present a damas- 

 cened appearance. Skeleton spicules of one form only, viz.-acerate, 

 curved, fusiform, gradually sliarp-pointed, smooth or microspined, 

 about 22 by 1-1800 th. inch in their greatest dimensions. Aperture 

 of statoblast sunken, single or in plurality, lined by a tubular pro- 

 jection of the chitinous coat." Carter. 



Loc. Island of Bombay. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11^7 



(10) Spongilla botryoides, W. A. Haswell. Proc. Linn. Soc. N. S. W.ales, 18.S2, 

 p. 209. 



"Sponge yellow, encrusting; skeleton spicnles curved, fusiform, 

 «j)ursely microspined ; statoblast spicules short, strongly curved, 

 with heads composed of numerous short, blunt or subacute spinels. 

 Shaft free from spines." Haswell. 



Loc. Pond near Brisbane, Australia. 



(11) Spongilla sceptrioides, W. A. lliiswell. Pnu-. Linn. Soc. N.S. Wales, LSS2, 

 I). 209. 



"Skeleton spicules microspined ; statoblast spicules cylindrical, 

 «pined, particularly near the head." 



Loc. I'ond near Brisbane, Australia. 

 <12) Spongilla cinerea, Carter. Ann. and. Mag. LSSl, |i. I(i7. 



"Flat, spreading ; surface slightly convex, ])resenting gentle emi- 

 nences and depressions. Color cinereous ; texture compact, fine, 

 friable. Skeleton spicule curved, fusiform, gradually sharp-pointed, 

 minutely spined. Statoblast globular ; aperture infundibular ; 

 crust thick, white, composed of microcell substance, charged with 

 minute acerate spicules which are curved, cylindrical, abruptly 

 .sharp-pointed, and coarsely spined throughout ; arranged more or 

 less tangentially, intercrossing." Charter. 



Loc. Bombay. 



(13) Spongilla fragilis, Leidy. (PI. V, fig. ii : PI. \i\\. tigs*, i, ii, iii, iv.) Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. ISj], p. 278. 



Syn. — European, See Vejdovsky, "Diagnosis." p. 170. 

 Syn. — American. 



I860 S. lordii, Bowerbank. 

 1875 S. ottaivaensis, Dawson. 

 1880 S. morgiana, Potts. 



(S'. ealumefi, B. W. Thomas. 

 1880 S.fi'Ofjilis, var. minuta, Fotts. 

 1880 S. fragilis, var. minutissima, Potts. 

 S. fragilis, var. irregularis, Potts. 

 S. segregata. Potts. 



Sponge "discoidal, lichenoid, growing in j)atches flat, oval or cir- 

 culai", lobate at margin, translucent, yellowish white or cream col- 

 ored. Areolae distinct, subcircular. Reproductive bodies arranged 

 in a single close layer at the base of the attachment of the sponge ; 

 shining whitish yellow, elevated into a central papilla upon the up- 

 per surface. 




198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



"Meas. From one half inch to two inches in diameter by 

 one to one and a half lines in thickness at the centre and gradually 

 thinning off to the margin. 



"Hah. Grows upon the underside of stones below low-water 

 mark in the rivers Delaware and Schuylkill. 



^'Structure. Composed of an intertexture of spiculae about one 

 four hundredth of an inch long, having a minutely tuberculated 

 surface, over which is reflected a granulo-cellular membrane. 



"Remarks. After the death of the sponge, the areolated tissue 

 macerates off, leaving the reproductive bodies in a close layer at- 

 tached to the rock. The living sponge is never green(?), nor does 

 it ever grow exposed to the light."(?) Leidy. 



I have thought best to preface my own description of this species 

 as seen and collected in multitudes of localities, by the above origi- 

 nal description by its discoverer Dr. Leidy. I append the follow- 

 ing from my note book: — "At the Acad. Nat. Sci. January Slst. 

 1885 — re-examined type specimen on a stone, of ^S. fragilis, presented 

 by J. Leidy,' taking a few spicules and statoblasts for comparison. 

 After mounting, (PI. VIII, fig. i,) I find the skeleton spicules aver- 

 age 0.0081 inches; the dermal spicules 0.0027 inches in length. 

 One four hundredth inches as given in his description corresponds 

 with the decimal fraction 0.0025 inches ; and my measurement 

 therefore agrees very nearly Avith Dr. Leidy's, of the dermal or flesh 

 spicules. He does not describe those of the skeleton." 

 See further remarks as to its identification later. 

 I would describe it as follows : — 



Sponge varying from a nearly white to a bright green according 

 to its exposure to the light ; encrusting, in subcircular patches, thin 

 at the edges, occasionally one or more inches thick near the middle. 

 Surface smooth or more or less tuberculated ; pores and osteoles 

 numerous ; the latter sometimes one fourth inch or more in diameter 

 at the confluence of several of the larger canals. Texture moi-e 

 compact than that of S. lacustris. (PI. V, fig. ii.) 



Gemmula5 abundant ; primarily in one or more pavement layers, 

 generally found at the base of the sponge ; their foramina prolonged 

 into tubes upon the upper or outer side ; frequently curving to one 

 side but not flaring like the funnel of a steamboat. In other posi- 

 tions the gemmules are found in compact groups of varying numbers; 

 the foraminal tubules uniformly opening outward. (PI. V, fig. ii, 

 B.) In all situations they are enveloped in a parenchyma of spher- 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 1 l)i> 



ical cells of nearly uniform size, made polygonal by contact, char^red 

 with multitudes of spinous acerates. 



Skeleton spicules slightly curved, smooth, rather abruptly pointed. 

 (PL VIII, fig. i, ii, iii, iv. a, a, a.) 



True dermal spicules wanting. 



Gemmule spicules or those embedded in the parenchyma, (PL 

 VIII, as above, b, c. etc.) either cylindrical or larger at the middle 

 and slightly tapering toward the extremities, which are truncate, 

 rounded or with a single terminal spine ; entirely spined ; spines 

 erect, conical or rounded; generally largest near the ends of tlie 

 spicule. 



Approximate measurements. Diameter of gemmules 0.02 inches. 

 Length of skeleton spicules 0.0075 inches ; of gemmule spicules. 

 0.003 inches. 



Hah. Standing or running water everywhere ; rather affecting^ 

 the former. 



Log. In all parts of North America heard from ; Europe etc. 



The proper identification of this sponge which was the first de- 

 scribed as discovered upon the American Continent, has become a. 

 subject of particular interest on account of its recent discovery at 

 several points in the Eastern Hemisphere. The original description 

 by Prof. Leidy has just been quoted. It will be remarked that al- 

 though the date of its publication was a dozen years prior to that of 

 Dr. Bowerbank's "Monograph" (1863) the name does not appear in 

 his list of species. This is explained by the absence of illustration.-^ 

 from Dr. Leidy 's text and the unfortunate circumstance (as narra- 

 ted by Dr. B. in his description of Meyenia leidyi,) that the sponge 

 sent to him marked "/S'. fragUls" did not correspond with the accom- 

 panying description, but proved upon examination to belong to a 

 novel and quite different species. 



Dr. Bowerbank consequently ignored S. fragills as imperfectly 

 described and was followed by H. J. Carter in a similar omission. 

 I take pleasure in restoring the name to its proper place in the lit- 

 erature of the subject, associating it with the species now described 

 for the following reasons: — 



In 1878 or 1879 my attention was first attracted to the subject of 

 fresh-water sponges by the discovery of a few gemmules, resembling 

 a rust-colored incrustation, upon a stone from Lansdowne Run, 

 Philadelphia. Noticing the variation of the truncate flesh spicules 

 from the pointed acerates in the descriptions of S. lucustris and >S. 




200 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



fiaviatilis, then only known to me, the sponge to which they belonged 

 was, not unreasonably perhaps, supposed to be new, and the name 

 Spongilla morfi'iana was suggested for it, (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. July 

 1880) from a fanciful resemblance of the gemmules Avith their up- 

 right foramina, to the jars in which the "Forty Thieves" were so 

 neatly "done in oils" by that consummate artist. On coming to a 

 knowledge of Dr. Leidy's description some months later, I sought 

 and found this sponge in his (Dr. L's) original localities. Repeated 

 comparison of the sponge with the above description resulted in 

 the conviction of their entire agreement, if we regard the author as 

 examining a mass of sessile gemmules after the skeleton spicules had 

 been generally removed. At last a small stone was discovered in 

 in the museum of the Philadelphia Academy, to which was attached 

 the legend, in the author's handwriting, ";S'. fragilis presented by 

 J. Leidy," and still bearing a few gemmules and spicules of the 

 same species. The identification was then complete, and S. lordii, 

 Bk. 1863; S. ottawaensii<, Dawson, 1875; and S. morgiana, Potts 

 1880, became synonyms. 



Next to S. lacustris, Spongilla fragilis is the most widely distrib- 

 uted American species ; having been found in most of the United 

 States and in all varieties of situations. It seems to grow indif- 

 ferently, in rapidly flowing streams, in currentless reservoirs, and even 

 in nearly stagnant pools. Where it is found at all, the specimens 

 are usually abundant. Ui)on one occasion when the water was with- 

 drawn from the canal basin at the head of the locks at Fairmount 

 Dam, Philadelphia, the exposed, perpendicular walls of dressed 

 ^tone were seen to be lined with them, probably hundreds in num- 

 ber; some of minute size, but many covering two or three square feet 

 of surface. They were rarely much more than an inch thick near 

 the middle and shaded off all around to filmy edges. They had no 

 apparent preference for the comparatively rough surface of the stones, 

 for some of the finest specimens were found upon the timbers of the 

 gates, from which they were easily removed. 



The large size of the efferent osteoles in this species is a conspic- 

 uous feature ; and within each of them can be seen the terminations 

 of five or six of the larger canals. When mature, say in August or 

 later, the pavement layer of gemmules may generally be found at 

 the base of such specimens ; and in those still older, the segregate 

 or grouped forms are frequently abundant in the higher parts of the 

 sponge. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 201 



These f/roups were not observed or described by Dr. Leidy, and 

 when first noticed by myself were supposed to indicate either a 

 new species or variety ; but it was long ago discoverd that to a 

 greater or less extent they formed a characteristic feature of all types 

 of Spongilla Jragilis. It has seemed to me that while the "pavement 

 layer" of gemmules was firmly attached to its base of support, indi- 

 cating a purpose to reproduce the sponge at the mme place, the 

 groups, which are not so attached, and are liberated by the slough- 

 ing away of the skeleton spicules during the winter season", float 

 off and serve to i)ropagate the species in distant localities. They 

 must not be understood to be merely accidental collections of gem- 

 mules in the same neighborhood and without coherence, (as is the 

 case with those of 8. aspinosa); but to be closely and permanently 

 associated and embedded in a mass of compact "cell-structure"; (the 

 "cellular crust" of Carter, the "external parenchyma" of Vejdovsky); 

 sometimes but three or four together, (PI. V, fig. ii, B.) compared 

 by H. J. Carter to the tetraspores of Selaginella; — sometimes a doz- 

 en or more, very irregularly grouped, but always with their foram- 

 inal tubules projecting outward through the crust ; in which vast 

 numbers of spined spicules are embedded. 



The spicules of this class are very variable in shape in the differ- 

 ent localities in which this species has been found ; being long or 

 short ; robust or slender ; truncate or pointed ; while the general 

 characteristics of the species remain unquestionable. A few vari- 

 eties that appear constant have been named. Upon nearly every 

 slide of prepared gemmules or spicules may be seen a few abnormal, 

 .spherical forms, bristling with spines, and reminding one of the pol- 

 len of Malvaceous plants, or the "caltrops" in sometime military 

 use. 



S.fragilis, (S. lordii, Bowerbank.) Syn. Proc. Zool. Soc. 1863. 



Dr. Bowerbank's description is here copied for convenient refer- 

 ence. The species would have been "good" in his name had it not 

 been antedated twelve years, by Dr. Leidy. 



"Sponge sessile, coating ; surface even, smooth. Oscular simple, 

 dispersed. Pores inconspicuous. Dermal membrane pellucid, 

 aspiculous. Skeleton spicula acerate. Ovaria congregated on the 

 basal membrane, very numerous ; spicula entirely spined, fusiform- 

 cylindrical, dispersed on the surface. Basal membrane abundantly 

 spiculous; spicula dispersed, same as those of the ovaries. Color 

 ochreous yellow to green." 



14 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Spongilla Jragllis, (S. segregata, Potts.) Syn. 



My error in separating this form has been acknowledged. 



8. fragilifi, (S. calumeti, Thomas.) Syn. 



This form has very robust gemmule spicules. (PI. VIII, fig. iii.) 



S. fragilis, var. minuta, Potts. (PI. VIII, fig. iv.) Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 18S0 

 p. 357. 



This varietal name was given to a sponge first found at Lehigh 

 G^p, Pennsylvania, in which the gemmules were much smaller than 

 in the typical form, while the surrounding S2:)icules were nearly 

 double the length of those of the same class in it and were nearly 

 always terminated by a single sharp spine. It has since been found 

 at several other localities. 



Meas. Skeleton spicules 0.01 by 0.0004 inches. Gemmule spic- 

 ules 0.00463 by 0.00025 inches. 



S. fragilis, var. minutissima, Potts. (PI. VIII, fig. ii.) 



The gemmules of var. minutissima are still smaller than those of 

 var. minuta ; the groups consist of greater numbers of individuals ; 

 the cell-structure surrounding them is still coarser and more conspic- 

 uous. The skeleton spicules of those collected in Lake Hopatcong, 

 New Jersey, (alt. 1200 ft. above tide.) are very slender and although 

 gathered in October often centrally inflated. 



Meas. Skeleton spicules 0. 0064 by 0.00015 inches ; gemmule do. 

 0.00397 by 0.0001 inches. 



S. fragilis, v. irregularis, Potts. 



In this, which was also collected at Lake Hopatcong, the skele- 

 ton spicules are short and slender; gemmule spicules irregularly 

 bent and inflated. 



Meas. Length of skeleton spicules 0.0042 inches ; of gemmule 

 do. 0.003 inches. 

 (14) Spongilla igloviformis. Potts, n. sp. (PL V, fig. iii. PI. VIII, fig. v. ) 



Sponge light or dark brown, encrusting, thin ; surface somewhat 

 corrugated, or smooth, excepting the projecting points of spicules. 

 Lines of skeleton sjjicules much dispersed, forming no recognizable 

 intertexture ; the sarcode in this species being at its maximum, in 

 relation to the skeleton spicules, which are seen at their minimum 

 as to numbers. 



Gemmules very numerous, in compact groups of eight or ten to 

 twenty or more ; irregularly disposed upon, but not attached to, the 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



supporting surface. These groups are apj^roximately hemispherical 

 in shape, resting upon a flat subcircular side or base, above which 

 they form a dome-shaped mass suggesting a resemblance to the 

 igloe or hut of an Eskimo (PI. V, fig. iii. A.). The foraminal ap- 

 ertures of the gemmules composing these groups, contrary to their uni- 

 form habit in S. fragilis, all open inward, apparently communicating 

 with a central cavity within the mass or group. Each gemmule, 

 as in the last named species, is enveloped in a cellular parenchyma, 

 which also, by short isthmus-like bands, connects it with the adjoin- 

 ing gemmules and finally compacts the members of a group together; 

 but, whereas the parenchymal cells of S. fragilis are nearly uniform 

 in size, these are very variable, being large upon the superfices of 

 the gemmule proper and upon the outer surface of the envelope ; 

 while the interior cell-structure is with difiiculty resolvable under 

 a one-fifth objective. This parenchyma is densely charged with 

 echinating spicules. 



Skeleton spicules very few, sub-fusiform, but somewhat enlarged 

 near the terminations, then abruptly pointed or rounded ; sparsely 

 microspined ; spines short, obtuse. (PI. VIII, fig. v, a.a.) 



Gemmule spicules exceedingly numerous, nearly as long as those 

 of the skeleton ; sub-fusiform, abruptly pointed, entirely spined. 

 Spines long, acute ; perpendicular at the middle of the spicules 

 while those near either end are strongly recurved. (PI. VIII, fig. 

 V, b.b.) 



Meas. Skeleton spicules 0.0099 by 0.0004 inches; gemmule spic- 

 ules 0.00657 by 0.0004 inches. 



Hab. Upon the lower side of timbers etc. in Cedar swamps near 

 the East coast of New Jersey. 



Log. Collected as yet only near Absecum and Vineland 

 N.J. 



The points of difference between this species and S. fragilis seem 

 obvious. I find them in the spinous character of the skeleton spic- 

 ules ; in the want of fibrous structure in the sponge itself; in the 

 different characters of the gemmule spicules ; in the absence of a 

 pavement layer of gemmules ; in the peculiar flat-sided arrangement 

 of the groups and in the fact that the germinal apertures all open 

 inward. 



This sponge was discovered during a memorable visit to Doughty's 

 Pond, Absecum, New Jersey, December 1st. 1883. The locality has 

 been described in the general remarks under the head of Spongilla 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18?S7. 



(ispinosa. Just before leaving the place, happening to draw uj) a 

 submerged slab lying in shallow water near the saw-mill, I found, 

 irregularly scattered upon its under side, a quantity of large, light- 

 colored particles, disconnected from any noticeable sponge growth, 

 and looking suspiciously like large grains of sawdust. They were 

 so much larger than ordinary statoblasts, that, not delaying to ex- 

 amine them minutely, I filled one or two bottles on "general princi- 

 ples" merely and took them with me. My pleasure in examining 

 them after, reaching home and chagrin at the recollection that, con- 

 trary to my usual custom, I had left the slab half drawn out of the 

 water, was such that I wrote by the next mail to the proprietor of 

 the mill, requesting him to restore the timber with the remaining 

 embryos to their native element. On two subsequent visits I was 

 successful in finding and collecting growing sponges of this species, 

 exhibiting the peculiarities described in the technical part of this 

 description. 



From a somewhat similar pond in the neighborhood of Vineland 

 N. J. my friend U. C. Smith Esq. has, on two occasions, brought 

 me gemmules of the same species. 



From MacKay's Lake, near Pictou, Nova Scotia, Mr. A. H. 

 MacKay has kindly sent what seems to me the same or a nearly re- 

 lated species, which was described a year later by Mr. Carter under 

 the name of 



(15) Spongilla mackayi, Carter. Ann. and Mag. .Jan. 1S85, p. 19. 



"Sponge sessile, spreading ; charged with little sub-globular bodies, 

 like large statoblasts, about one twelfth inch in diameter. Skeleton 

 spicules acerate, slightly curved, sharp-pointed, more or less thickly 

 spined; averaging 50 by 2]-6000ths. inches in their greatest dimen- 

 sions. Statoblast globular, consisting of a thick chitinous coat filled 

 with the usual germinal matter, from which is very slightly prolonged 

 an everted trumpet-shaped aperture ; betiring slight traces externally 

 of microcell-structure and the polygonal tissue ; making one of 

 twenty such which are so arranged as to form a sub-globular body 

 of the size mentioned ; situated around a central cavity with their 

 apertures inwards ; the whole supported by statoblast spicules of 

 various sizes, which, intercrossing each other form a nest-like glob- 

 ular capsule in which the outer parts of the statoblasts are fixed and 

 covered ; apparently, (for the specimen is dry) deficient at one point, 

 which leads into the central cavity. Siatoblast spicules acerate, 

 sharp-pointed like the skeletal spicules, but becoming much shorter 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



and more coarsely spined as they approach the chitiiious coats of 

 the statobhusts, where they may be reduced to at least zihs ths. in- 

 ches in length, although often increased to -gsso ths. inches in thick- 

 ness, and their spines, which are very irregular in size and situa- 

 tion, often as long as the spicule is broad." Carter. 

 Loc. MacKay's Lake, near Pictou, Nova Scotia. 



(16) Spongilla bohmii, Hilgendorf. Ann. and Mag. N. H. Vol. XII, 188:^, p. 

 122. 



"Sponge parasitic upon masses of Spongilla nitens, appearing a.s 

 an inconspicuous crust of only one millimetre in thickness ; con.sist- 

 ing of a very fine-meshed, delicate frame work. The magnificent 

 gemmulas are grouped in a single layer of from 8 to 12 within the 

 skeleton, but at the same time much projecting from it ; always very 

 few in number. 



"A delicate homogeneous lamella sharply divides the two species. 



"The skeleton spicules are similar in form to those of >S. nitens^ 

 but are only half their length, and instead of being smooth are stud- 

 ded with roundish, flattened tubercles, which at the ends approach 

 considerably closer together. 



"They are accompanied by a four times smaller amphidiscoid form, 

 whose shaft is gently curved and bears at some distance from the 

 the centre a small spherical elevation. From a similar one at each 

 end of the shaft proceeds five short, pointed, recurved prongs, exact- 

 ly as in a whorl. These double whorls lie close to the large spicules 

 and form with them the network, the threads, of Avhich are mostly 

 but one spicule in thickness. 



"The gemmulse have not the layer of parenchyma ; the spicules 

 lie tangentially and in only a single layer ; but they are densely 

 crowded and at the same time minute ; so that their number is very 

 considerable and may exceed a thousand in one gemmule. Each 

 spicule is moderately curved, cylindrical, with only the last eighth 

 or tenth tapering to a point. The surface bears a moderate number 

 of short acute spines ; say 50 on the entire spicule." Slightly ab- 

 breviated from M. Hilgendorf. 



Loc. River Ugalla near Lake Tanganyika, Central Africa ; col- 

 lected by Dr. R. Bohm. 



Through the good offices of my friend Mr. Carter and the kindness 

 of Dr. Weltner, of Berlin, I have been favored to receive from Dr. 

 Hilgendorf of the Berlin Zool. Museum, where it wa.s deposited, an 

 excellent specimen of S. nitens, bearing upon one of its surfaces a 




206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



film of the above S. bohviii, ample for comparison with the next 

 species, S. 7iovce terrce, which, in one point, it most curiously resem- 

 bles. Having given above the very clear description by Dr. M. 

 Hilgendorf, it is needful only to explain that while such a "layer of 

 parenchyma" around the gemmule as that seen in its associate spe- 

 cies, S. nitens, is absent, the gemmule of S. hdhmii is provided with 

 a thick "granular crust" beneath which the gemmule spicules are 

 embedded, a capsule of skeleton spicules enveloping the whole. 

 The dermal or flesh spicules, as he describes them, are ndnute hiro- 

 tulates, nearly resembling those of S. novce terrce and Meyenia everetti, 

 but somewhat larger than either: the shafts are more frequently 

 bent and a bolder enlai'gement at each extremity gives origin to more 

 widely spreading hooked rays. I incline to the opinion that the oc- 

 casional inflations of the shafts of these spicules as well as of the 

 spicules of the gemmule, indicate a want of full maturity in the sj)ec- 

 imen when gathered. 



My interest in the description given of this little species by Dr. 

 Hilgendorf was such as to induce me to ask, through Mr. Carter, the 

 opportunity of making a personal examination of it ; more partic- 

 ularly, to discover whether in it, as in S. novce terrce, the birotulate 

 dermal was associated with a gemmule acerate showing any tendency 

 toward a birotulate form. This I find is no more the case than in 

 several other species of Spongilla ; S. fragilis for instance, where there 

 is also a grouping of recurved rays near the extremities. 



The curious fact that a coincidence of type has here associated the 

 Island of Newfoundland with Central Africa, will not escape the 

 notice of any one ; nor that a corresponding form in a neighboring 

 genus should only appear, as yet, in places so remote as a corner of 

 Massachusetts and the Lakes of Nova Scotia. 

 (17) Spongilla novae terrae, Potts. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1881, p. 228 etc. 



Sponge encrusting ; sarcode of the young growth, a dense mass of 

 minute spherical cells, embedding slender, curving lines of fascic- 

 ulated skeleton spicules, developing later into a very loose, open tis- 

 sue, with few connecting spicules. 



Gemmules rather numerous, unusually large, spherical; chitiuous 

 coat thin ; crust apparently wanting. 



Skeleton spicules relatively few, slender, cylindrical, smooth or 

 sparsely microspined ; gradually pointed. (See cut.) 



Dermal or flesh spicules very abundant, minute birotulates of un- 

 equal size ; shafts slender, cylindrical, occasionally spined ; outer 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 207 



surface of rotules dome-shaped ; rays prolonged, terminations acute ; 

 malformations frequent. These are mixed with occasional linear 

 spined spicules. 



Gemmule spicules abundant, 

 crossing each other upon the 

 crustless, chitinous body. 

 Their shape when smooth is 

 robust-fusiform, with pointed 

 terminations : the great ma- 

 jority, however, have from 

 one to six or more long spines, 

 non-symmetrically placed, but 

 with an evident tendency 

 to group themselves at points 

 about one-fourth the length of 

 the spicule from one or both of its extremities. 



Meas. Diameter of gemmules 0.036 inches ; skeleton spicules 

 0.0068 by 0.0002 inches; length of average dermal birotulate, 

 0.00066 inches ; and of those of the gemmulse 0.00145 inches. 

 Hah. Encrusting stones in shallow water. 



Loc. Lakes or ponds in the vicinity of Heart's Content, New- 

 foundland ; collected by Mr. A. H. MacKay. 



As the unusual features of this sponge give it a peculiar import- 

 ance, I am tempted to copy the results of an entirely independent 

 study of it by my friend ISlr. Carter, taken from a letter written to 

 the discoverer, Mr. MacKay. The comparison of it with that above 

 given may be both interesting and instructive, as showing how the 

 same peculiarities, equally new to both, may impress different ob- 

 servers. 



"Specimen sessile, spreading over two sides of a cubic stone about 

 two inches in diameter; about one sixth inch high in the center, 

 thinning off towards the circumference. Color of the surface 

 greenish ; of the interior greyish brown. Surface smooth, shining, 

 (in the dried state), covering a parenchymatous structure beneath, 

 traversed 1)y thread-like bundles of the skeletal spicules of the 

 species, charged with statoblasts. 



Statoblasts globular, of different sizes, but comparatively large 

 generally ; being often ^Woths of an inch in diameter ; covered in a 

 tessellated manner, by a single layer of short fusiform spicules 

 in juxtaposition and all on the same level. 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887- 



Fusiform spicule short, thick and smooth fundamentally, averagin<; 

 10 by l-6000th.inchin its greatest dimensions, but variable in length, 

 presenting one to twelve spines most whimsically scattered over 

 tlie surface, so that no two spicules are alike in this respect. 

 Aperture of the statoblast single, circular, slightly marginated, 

 about eo^ooths. inch in diameter. 



Skeletal spicule slightly curved, smooth and gradually pointed 

 comparatively small, forming, by overlapping each other linearly, 

 the thread-like bundles mentioned ; about 40 by l-6000ths. inch in its. 

 greatest dimensions, 



Dermal layer and tissue generally abundantly charged witli 

 minute birotulates, almost identical with those of Meyenia everetti,. 

 but a little larger and with longer and more recurved teeth at the 

 terminations: about ^o^^ths. inch in length." 



Log. Heart's Content, Avalon Peninsula, Newfoundland. 



All the specimens of this sponge came from the neighborhood of 

 Heart's Content, but whether they were gathered from a lake upon 

 the heights or from a brook, mentioned by Mr. Mackay, near the sea 

 level, does not seem entirely clear. The accompanying illustration, 

 magnified 225 diameters will suggest the peculiarities of its skeleton 

 (crossed below), dermal (at lower corners) and gemraular spiculation 

 (above). The striking resemblance (alluded to by Mr. Carter), of 

 the dermal spicules to the minute birotulates, heretofore only known 

 in a corresponding position, in the cases of Meyerda everetti and 

 Spongilla bohmll, will at once impress the student. These are how- 

 ever more variable in size, are occasionally spined, and have their 

 rays more prolonged and more delicately terminated. 



It is in the singular character of the spicules surrounding the 

 gemmules that this species must attract peculiar attention. As the 

 reader must already have discovered, the six genera included in 

 Carter's system may be divided into two principal groups; one of 

 them including only the genus Spongilla, characterized by the linear, 

 acerate spicules surrounding the gemmules; and the other, comprising 

 all the other genera, where the spicule of corresponding significance 

 is a birotidate or some easily recognized derivative of that type. 

 Within this latter and larger group, intermediate forms, connecting 

 the defined genera, are frequent, and the location of species upon 

 one side or other of the distinctive line, comparatively unimportant. 

 Heretofore, between the genus Spongilla and those genera comprised 

 in the other group there has been "a great gulf fixed." One only 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 20!> 



case in the past has suggested their possible association, or tlie de- 

 velopment of one group from the other. 



By referring to the description of Meyeniafiuviatilvi, var acuminata, 

 raihi, it will be seen, that in that variety, the shafts of the birotu- 

 lates are prolonged at each extremity, forming acuminate terminations 

 some distance beyond the surface of the rotules. It must be noticed 

 also, that in position these spicules are abnormal, lying flat ujion 

 the chitinous coat, instead of resting upon one rotule, their shafts 

 taking the position of radii, as is usual in this genus. We have 

 here in fact spicules of a Meyenla occupying the ordinary positions, 

 and in degree approximating the forms of those regarded as peculiar 

 to the Spongillce. 



In the present species the intermediate character of the gemmule- 

 spicules is still more striking ; and while their form and position prol)- 

 ably more closely associate them with the genus Sjjongilla, in which 

 I have, after considerable hesitation, placed the species, the grouping of 

 ray like spines is forcibly suggestive of Meyetiia; it will be therefore 

 no cause for surprise, if further examination shall cause its transfer 

 to the sister genus. 



It must not escape notice that in both of these instances the 

 gemmulte are without "crust," and as it is difficult to understand 

 how birotulates could be supported in their ordinary positions with- 

 out these embedding granules, we may not unreasonably infer a 

 possible relation of cause and effect between the change in position, 

 and the modification of type that we here find. 



As this is the first novel species of fresh water sponge collected 

 upon the Island of Newfoundland, as also, this is the highest latitude 

 in North America from which any collections have been recorded, 

 it may be well to append to the above, in which the original report 

 to the Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. (1886) has been closely followed, the 

 remarks of Mr. MacKay, as to the extremes of temperature etc. in 

 that region. 



He .says: "The Island is not extreme in its temperature, and the 

 frost does not go very deep into the soil. The lakes freeze in 

 November or December with ice at least a foot in thickness, and 

 remain closed until the end of April. The average temperature 

 during eight years, from 1857 to 1864, was 41.2° Fahr.: average 

 maximum thermometer during the same time 83°; niimimum, 7°. 

 In the year 1879, the mean temperature was 40.2° Fahr; highest rec- 

 ord, August 3rd, 82°; lowest, December 22,-1-4°. In Nova Scotia, 




210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



though that is so much further south, the range is far greater, from 

 -f-96° to— 20° or — 24° Fahr.; with an annual average of 44°." 

 (II) Gen. MEYENIA, Carter, Ann. and Mag. etc. 1881, p. 90. 



Gen. Char. Skeleton spicules acerate, curved, fusiform, pointed 

 or rounded, smooth or variably spined. Gemmules globular or oval, 

 enveloped in a granular crust, charged with birotulate spicules (PI. 

 IX, b. b. etc. ) of a single class or type, radially arranged ; i. e. with 

 one rotule resting upon or approximating to the chitinous coat, the 

 shaft erect and the other rotule forming, or projecting beyond the 

 .surface of the gemmules. (PI. V fig. v and vi.) 



The existence of bii'otulate spicula (then called amphidisks) in 

 the crust surrounding the gemmulpe of some sponges was first pointed 

 out by F. J. F. Meyen, (1839) who made them the distinctive 

 characteristics of Spongilla fiuviatiUs; thus distinguishing that species 

 from S. lacustris, with which until that time it had been constantly 

 confused. In his generic revision of the group, finding that several 

 species possessed the same peculiarity, Mr. Carter, with excellent 

 taste, grouped under the name of Meyen those that exhibited this 

 feature in its simplest conditions. 



Next to Sj)ongilla in importance, as it follows it in our classification, 

 the genus Meyenia appears to be the most widely diffused throughout 

 the world ; and its leading species, M. fluviatilis, like S. lacustris is 

 found exhibiting many variations, to perplex the student and tempt 

 him to the creation of unnecessary names. The following is pre- 

 sented as a guide to the approximate determination of the several 

 si^ecies. 



KEY TO THE SPECIES OF THE GENUS MEYENIA. 



(a) Margins of birotulate sjncules entire. 



1. Skeleton spicules covered with powerful spines. Spool-like 

 birotulates upon the surface of the gemmulse covered with a 

 deep parenchyma of large cells. 



Meyenia, ( Trochospongilla) erenaceus. 



2. Skeleton spicules smooth, short, robust; margins of short birotu- 

 lates exflected; each gemmule enclosed in a capsule of skeleton 

 spicules. (PI. V fig. iv, PI. X, fig. i.) M. leidyi. 



3. Rotulse large, flat; gemmules furnished with an envelope charged 

 with spined spicules. M. gregaria. 



4. Gemmules about one fourth the size of those of other species. 



M. minuta. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHELADELPHIA. 211 



(6) Margins of birotulate spicules rayed. 



5. Skeleton spicules either smooth or microsi^ined ; dermals want- 

 ing; birotulates short, shafts generally smooth; margins of rotules 

 irregularly rayed. (PI. V fig. v ; PI. IX figs, i, to iv.) 



M. fiuviatilis. 



6. Birotulates in two or three series. 31. (Ephydatia) mulleri. 

 (See also genus Pleiomeyenia.') 



7. Parasitic on S. lacustris; foramina funnel shaped. 



31. bohemica. 



S. Birotulate spicules generally malformed ; shafts with enormous 



spines, etc. (PI. IX fig. v.) 31. robusta. 



9. Birotulates rather long , shafts smooth ; margins of rotules la- 

 cinulate. (PI. X fig. ii.) 31. millsii. 



10. Rays and spines of birotulates subdivided or microspined. (PI. 

 IX fig. vi.) 31. subdivisa. 



11. Dermal spicules with long, erect spines; birotulates long, 

 spined; rays incurved. 31. baileyi. 



12. Birotulates rather long; margins crenulate or granular. 



31. captewelU. 



13. Gemmules flask-shaped; apertures terminal; birotulates very 

 short, obscure. 31. anonyma. 



14. Shafts of birotulates much spined. 31. rmnsayi. 



15. Birotulates many times longer than the diameter of the hooked 

 rotules ; shafts spiniferous. (PI. V, fig. vi, PI. X, fig. v.) 



31. craterlformis. 



16. Gemmule birotulates long, club-like. Dermal sjiicules also 

 birotulate, minute. (PI. X, fig. iii and iv). 



31. everetti. 



17. Gemmule birotulates long, spinous; margins of rotules notched: 

 dermal spicules stellate. (PI. X, fig. vi.) 31. jjhwwsa. 



(a) 3Iarglns of birotulate spicides entire. 



(1) Meyenia (Trocliospongilla) erenaceus, Ehreuburg, See Vejdovsky's "Diiig- 

 nosis." p. 177 



In his description Prof Vejdovsky has not, I think, invested the 

 parenchyma surrounding the gemmulse of this species with sufficient 

 importance. From specimens which he has kindly sent to me, I am 

 led to regard this feature, at least to this degree, as unique amongst 

 the sponges, and I regret my inability to furnish an illustration of 

 it. I do not know whether the sponge mass bears any external 

 resemblance to that of 31. leidyi, but they are unquestionably distinct 

 species. 




21 2 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18«7 . 



(2) Meyenia leidyi, Carter. Ann. and Mag. 1881, p. 91. ( PI. V, fig. iii. PI. X, fig. i.) 

 Spongilla leidyi, Bk. (Proe. Zool. Soc. 18G:5, p. 445 etc.) 



"Sponge sessile, coating, thiu ; surface tuberculated, minutely his- 

 j)id ; oscula numerous, small, congregated, elevated and margiuated ; 

 pores conspicuous. Skeleton spicula acerate, small, short and stout, 

 rather obtusely terminated. Dermal and interstitial membranes 

 aspiculous. Ovaria spherical, small ; dermal spicula birotulate, 

 minute, short ; shaft cylindrical ; rotulse margins entire, that of the 

 outer one sometimes exflected and rarely spiculated."(?) Bowerbank. 



The above is Dr. Bowerbank's original description after the ex- 

 amination of one dry specimen. During the past six years I have 

 collected the species, scores of times and perhaps in greater quantity 

 than any other. I will describe it as I have seen it. 



Sponge of a peculiar light gray or drab color, even when exposed 

 to the light ; encrusting, thin. Perdstent ; the gro^vths of success- 

 ive seasons forming as many series of thin lamina. Surface even, 

 sometimes rising into smooth rounded prominences, and at timen 

 covered with singular radiating or bird-track-like markings, whose 

 cause is not fully understood. Pores and osteoles numerous, min- 

 ute ; the latter being found along the radiate lines, but not conspic- 

 uously at their confluence. Texture very compact ; compo.sed of 

 short spicules, very slightly fasciculated ; the primary lines and 

 principal channels nearly perpendicular ; with single intercalating 

 spicules forming polyhedral interspaces. 



Gemmules numerous, sub-s]>herical, deposited at the base of the 

 sponge and, in successive seasons, in serial layers above (or below?) 

 the first. Each mature gemmule is surrounded, outside of the bi- 

 rotulate armature, by a lattice work or capsule, composed of spicules 

 resembling those of the skeleton ; an open space being left at 

 the top around the short, tubular foramen (PI. V, tig, iii, A). 

 When more than one of these is present, they are grouped together, 

 and the open space of the capsule is correspondingly enlarged. Be- 

 fore maturity a granular crust embeds and surrounds the dense 

 layer of short birotulates, but after the latticed capsule is formed, 

 (at least when examined in a dry state) I have not been able to dis- 

 cover it. 



Skeleton spicules short, smooth, robust; when mature very ab- 

 ruptly terminated, almost rounded. (PI. X, fig. i, a,a,a,b,b.) 



Dermal and interstitial surfaces aspiculous. 




1<S87.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 213 



Birotulate spicules surrounding the gemmules very short, umho- 

 nate ; rotules sometimes twisted or contorted ; margins entire ; gener- 

 ally exflected or turned up saucer-like, away from the surftice of the 

 gemmule ; the diameter of the outer rotule generally rather less 

 than that of the proximal one. (PI. X, fig. i, c,d, etc.) 



Meas. Skeleton s})icules 0"0()4(i6 hy 0-00045 inches. Length of 

 birotulates 0"00045 inches. Diameter of large rotule 0'00055 inches, 

 and of shaft O'OOOl inches. 



Hab. Encrusting timbers and stone work at various, probably 

 Kometimes at great, depths. 



Loc. Found as yet only in the Schuylkill River and reservoira 

 near Philadelphia; at Windmill Island in the Delaware River; and 

 near Phillipsburg, New Jersey. 



Several circumstances give to this species of fresh water sponge 

 peculiar interest and importance. Described at first from a speci- 

 men inadvertently sent by Prof. Leidy to Dr. Bowerbank, as men- 

 tioned by the latter in his "Monograph," (Proc. Zool. Soc. 1863, j). 

 445) and already alluded to in mv historical sketch of SpongiUa 

 fragills, it appears to have remained unseen and uncollected from 

 1863 until 1880 when the writer rediscovered it at the original local- 

 ity ,-the neighborhood of Fairmount Dam on the Schuylkill River, 

 Philadelphia. I am not aware that any has been found elsewhere, 

 excepting at Windmill Island in the Delaware River, near by, and a 

 single dry specimen, origin unknown, upon a stick which I picked up 

 upon the bank, high above the Delaware River at Phillipsburg, New 

 Jersey. 



Fairmount Dam, just mentioned and frequently referred to in 

 these pages, is, of course, already known to Philadelphians ; but as 

 it has been spoken of as one of the richest localities in the world 

 for fresh water sponges, a brief description of the situation may be 

 allowed, for the information of others. It is situated at the head of 

 tide water in the Schuylkill River within the limits of the City of 

 Philadelphia. It supplies upon one side, a system of locks pertain- 

 ing to the Schuylkill Navigation Co. and on the other, pours its living 

 floods through the magnificent turbine w^ater wheels, by which the 

 pumps are operated, that raise a large portion of the water-supply 

 •of the City to the subsiding and distributing reservoirs u})Ou tlu; 

 summit of the neighboring Fairmount Hill. The direction of the 

 dam breast is not at right angles to the course of the stream, but 

 follows a line of rocks diagonally toward the northwest, turning 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



abruptly to the southwest, when one or two hundred feet from the 

 heavy masonry of the canal locks. 



The exposed portions consist of heavy timbers and planking ; the 

 top and a lower section being horizontal or nearly so, connected by 

 an inclined slide or shoot. To increase the depth of the water above 

 the dam, for the benefit of the Philadelphia Water Works, a series 

 of planks have been hinged to the upper, horizontal portion, and 

 are retained in a perpendicular position, by inclined stays or props. 

 When the river is full, the water stands against these and overflows 

 them, nearly two feet above the normal level of the dam. Duriiig 

 the summer season, however, the diminished supply is so drawn 

 upon by the operation of the canal locks, the water works and ordi- 

 nary leakage, that there is rarely any overflow for several mouths 

 together. At such times it has been my custom frequently to walk 

 from one side of the river to the other upon the horizontal timbers, 

 examining at leisure the inner (upper) side of this planking ; and 

 my collections have principally been made from their smooth 

 surfaces, when, illuminated by the afternoon sun, every adherent 

 growth was easily seen through the unruffled surface of the water. 

 Not that the stream is perennially unruffled by any means, for at 

 its best the wave from a passing steamboat is likely to flood the un- 

 wary scientist at an unexpected moment. I only allude to this 

 quiet hour, with the declining sun nearly in front of the explorer, 

 as presenting the most favorable conditions for collecting. Upon a 

 single visit, I have gathered from these timbers, specimens of S. 

 lacustris, S. fragilis, M. leidy'i, M. fluviatilis and M. crateriformis, 

 with minute portions of H. argyrosperma. The first three may be 

 considered permanent inhabitants of the locality, the others as occa- 

 sional visitants. 



In the forebay of the water works and in the reservoirs above, 

 M. leidyi is very abundant, covering all standing timbers, horizon- 

 tal pipes and frame work, as well as the dressed stone fiicings of the 

 piers etc. In tide water in both the Schuylkill and Delaware Rivers, 

 it is found at the greatest depth examined, say eight feet 

 below low water, and probably grows much deeper ; Avhile most of 

 our other sponges seem to prefer the neighborhood of the surface. 

 In the subsiding reservoirs upon Fairmount Hill and in other places 

 about Philadelphia, it especially affects the cribs and screens at the 

 head of the discharge pipes. When the water has. been drawn off 

 for cleaning I have found it covering yards of surface at such places. 



; 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215- 



though it rarely attained an inch in thickness. One such locality 

 is particularly remembered,-the so-called Corinthian Avenue reser- 

 voir, which had not been emptied for several years ; here the finest 

 specimens might have been gathered, literally "by the bushel," and 

 probably one half that measure was taken away in great slices or 

 "slabs" under my arm. 



These masses were almost certainly the results of many years un- 

 disturbed growth. I have described this species as persistent, to a 

 degree unknown and almost impossible to imagine, in the case of 

 any other North American sponge. The compactness of its skele- 

 ton texture is such, that, except in the event of actual violence, such 

 as the pressure of ice etc., I do not believe that the spicules slough 

 away during the winter, as do most of the others. Its gemmules, 

 therefore, are rarely liberated, and the species in consequence is not 

 largely diffused. 



Transverse sections through the masses alluded to, show an upper 

 or outer layer, about one eighth inch in thickness, of skeleton spic- 

 ules in their normal positions, as formed ; and below them a series 

 of rather irregular lamina, composed almost entirely of gemmules, 

 within their specialized lattice capsules. 



The years of occasional study already given to this species leave 

 several problems yet unanswered ; prominent among which, is that 

 of the order of these serial growths ; which I must refer to my more 

 successful followers. My difficulty may be stated thus. Let us sup- 

 pose a sponge of this species, at the end of its first season's gro^vi:h. 

 It then, undoubtedly, consists of a layer of gemmules, surmounted 

 by a film of skeleton spicules. There is reason to believe that lit- 

 tle of the latter Avill be washed away during the winter season, but 

 when spring comes, the contents of the gemmules, escaping through 

 their foraminal orifices'will probably(?) reclothe the naked skeleton 

 (realizing Ezekiel's vision of the dry bones,) secrete fresh silica and 

 at a slow rate continue the growth of the mass. 



As the next season of hybernation arrives, what must happen? 

 A second layer of gemmules will be deposited ; but where ? It does 

 not appear to be at the summit of the sponge of the first season ; 

 for our section, in that case, would show a regular alternation of 

 gemmules and of skeleton spicules in position. Is the second layer, 

 then, formed above the first of the series of gemmules or below it ? 

 That is, in my fi-agment, now probably ten or twelve years of age, 

 are the most recent gemmules highest or lowest in the series? I 




216 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



<-.onfess my inability, as yet, to answer the question. If freshness of 

 appearance is taken as a guide, the latter seems the more probable 

 supposition. Numbers of genimules without capsular covering are 

 to be found in both situations and tlie foraminal openings, which 

 may be said to be generally upon the upper side, are found in 

 some parts of the series upon the lower. The problem remains 

 open. 



The peculiar markings upon the external surface of the sponge, 

 form another perplexing feature. Upon other sponges we see the 

 terminations of submerged canals, partially exposed by the rupture 

 of the thin dermal film which alone covered them ; here, the mark- 

 ings consist of spicular ridges, sometimes slightly grooved along 

 their summits, and terminated at their divergent extremities by in- 

 clined efferent (or afferent?) orifices. Those who are familiar with 

 the appearance of young, living sponges of other species, will re- 

 member that the dermal film is supported upon the points of pro- 

 jecting spicules, at some distance above the denser mass of the sponge, 

 which it thus "tympanizes," to use a happy expression of Mr. Carter. 

 The vestibule thus formed in or around them, is, in M. leidyi, prob- 

 ably on account of the shortness and non-fasciculated character of 

 its spicules, almost or entirely wanting, and its place seems to be 

 supplied when alive by the formation along the above-mentioned 

 ridges, of external, sub-cylindrical, convergent canals that have not 

 been mentioned in any other species. Upon the only occasion in 

 which I was able to experiment upon a living sponge in this condi- 

 tion, I was puzzled to see the particles of carmine used in feeding 

 it, drawn through the pores into these channels and presently suck- 

 ed dowTiward into the body of the sponge, instead of being borne 

 forward and thrown out from them through a common orifice or 

 chimney, as is familiar in other cases. Attempting no explanation 

 of this reversal of ordinary methods, I merely record it as an excep- 

 tional fact. 



Within some fragments collected at Windmill Island, were found 

 many subspherical masses, like large shot, each containing three or 

 four gemmules, embedded, not in parenchymal cells, but in a dense 

 mass of skeleton spicules. These have not been seen elsewhere. 



Some question has been raised as to the presence, in parts of this 

 species, of spined skeleton spicules. As the result of a careful ex- 

 amination of large numbers of specimens I may state my belief that 

 any such appearance has been due to the accidental intrusion of 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 217 



skeleton siDicules of Tiibella pennsylvanica ; which species has fre- 

 quently been found in contact or in close proximity with the other. 



A singular efiect upon the sj^icules of this sponge, produced 

 either by a retardation of their growth, or a hastened disintegration, 

 was noticed (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 1884, p. 184) in the case of frag- 

 ments that had grown within certain old water pij^es, and were, at 

 the time of examination, strongly marked by iron rust. A central 

 canal here occupied fully one half the Avidth of the skeleton spicules 

 and was open at both extremities ; and the birotulates had lost 

 their "entire" margins and appeared delicately rayed. 



It may be mentioned in this connection, that this species, more 

 frequently than any other, has been found encrusting iron water 

 pij)es ; their exteriors, when they have long lain exposed to the 

 water ; and the interiors of those of large size, to a distance of some 

 hundreds of feet from the reservoirs, where they had grown of 

 course, in entire darkness. I have not yet succeeded in finding 

 either the sponge in situ, or its detached spicules, among the concre- 

 tions that occasionally entirely close the water-way of some of the 

 smaller pij^es, near the centre of our city. 

 (3) Meyenia gregaria, (S. gregaria) Bk. Proc. Zool. Soc. etc., 1863 p. 452. 



"Skeleton spicula cylindrical, stout and rather short. Ovaria 

 furnished with an envelope , spicula of the envelope few and scat- 

 tered, cylindrical, short and stout, entirely spined. Ovaria, surface 

 even, furnished abundantly with very short birotulate spicula ; ro- 

 tul?e flat, margins entire, outer surface umbonate ; umbo very short, 

 slightly convex. Shaft of sj)iculum cylindrical, short and stout. 

 Color in the dried state dark, lurid green." Bowerbank. 



Sab. "River Amazons, on branches of trees, periodically pendant 

 in the water; near Villa Nova." 



I have been able to identify several small groups of gemmules of 

 this species on the stem of a twig supporting a mass of Parmula 

 hrownii, var. from Beni River, East Bolivia. As in this situation I 

 have been so foi'tunate as to find and determine positively the spicular 

 skeletonof the sponge itself which neither Dr. Bowerbank nor H. J. 

 Carter had done, the following is ofi^ered as a complete description. 

 It will solve some doubts of both the former authors. 



Sponge minute, encrusting, thin ; surface even ; orifices very nu- 

 merous, large. Skeleton spicules not fasciculated, consequently no 

 long lines of fibre, the spicules attached and crossing one another in 

 every direction. 



15 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Gemmules ovoid, rather numerous, apjDroximatiug to one another 

 in groups of varying numbers, surrounded upon the upper side by 

 a rather sparse capsule of skeleton spicules, which become very nu- 

 merous below, particularly around the circumference, where they 

 buttress and elevate the gemmule above the firm basal membrane 

 of the sponge. Foraminal apertures uniformly downward. The 

 chitinous coat is covered by a very thin crust in which a comj)act 

 series of short birotulates is embedded. 



Skeleton spicules cylindrical, short and rather stout, slightly and 

 nearly uniformly bent ; terminations rounded ; entirely spined ; 

 spines, low-conical, acute, more conspicuous upon the outer curves of 

 the spicules. , 



No dermals seen. 



Gemmule spicules birotulates with entire circular margins and 

 extremely short shafts ; rotules flat. 



3Ieas. Average length of skeleton spicule about 0*0036 inches. 

 Diameter of rotules 0'00045 inches ; height of birotulate 0'0002. 



Loc. Beni river, East Bolivia; collected by Dr. H. H. Rusby. 



(4) Meyenia minuta, u. sp. 



Sponge as seen minute, encrusting, relatively compact ; the spic- 

 ules non-fasciculated and without definite arrangement. 



Gemmules in the dried state fiiintly suggested by the curvatures 

 of the upper surface of the sponge ; rather numerous, spherical, very 

 small, (about one fourth the average diameter of those of other spe- 

 cies), a thin granular crust embedding birotulates that are no small- 

 er than those of the three previous species. 



Skeleton spicules slender, cylindrical but gradually sharp-pointed 

 entirely spined ; spines conical, acute. 



Dermal or flesh spicules wanting. 



Gemmule-birotulates short, shafts smooth, thinnest at the centre ; 

 TOtules nearly equal ; margins entire, slightly reflexed, more partic- 

 ularly that of the outer rotule which thus becomes cup-shaped. 



3Ieas. Diameter of gemmules about O'OOo inches; a line of ten or 

 twelve of its birotulates only, being found along its semi-equator. 



Hab. Found encrusting a leaf belonging to the stem upon which 

 a mass of Parmula broivnii, var. had formed. 



Loc. Collected by Dr. H. H. Rusby along a small branch of the 

 river Beni in Eastern Bolivia, S. A. (See also P. hrownii.) 



This is the most minute mature sponge that I have ever met Avith, 

 The masses, even, can hardly be said to be visible to the naked eye 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



mthout a suggestive guidance ; being about one sixteenth inch in 

 diameter. The first was found, accidentally, on a mount containing 

 another sponge and a very careful and almost despairing search 

 was required before another was discovered. Its generic classification 

 has been somewhat doubtful. But for its entii-ely abnormal gemmules 

 and the geographical dislocation of the sponges, it might readily 

 have been associated with the highest serial form of Tuhella i^enn- 

 sylvanica; viz., that in which the rotules are most nearly equal. 

 For the reasons mentioned it seems best to separate them and 

 place it in the genus Meyenia, Avhere it difiers noticeably from 31. 

 gregaria, (found upon the same stem) and from M. leidyi ; each of 

 which species has a capsular envelojie ; also from M. erenaceous with 

 its unique parenchyma of oblong cells. I have therefore made it a 

 new conditional species. 



(6) Margins of hirotulates rayed. 

 (5) Meyenia fluviatilis, (S. fluviatilis) Auct. (PL V, fig. v, PL IX, figs, i to iv.) 



Syn. European, See Vejdovsky "Diagnosis." j). 178. 

 " Asiatic, 1849, Spongilla meyeni, Carter. 

 " American : — 

 1875 Meyenia (Spongilla) asperima, Dawson. 



" " " stagnalis, " 



1880 " " astrosjyerma, Potts. 



" " " polymorpha, " 



1882 " var. acuminata, " 



1885 " " mexicana, " 



" " " angustihirotidata, Carter. 



" " " gracilis, " 



"Massive, lobate. Structure friable, crumbling. Color light yel- 

 low-brown. Skeleton-spicule curved, fusiform, gradually sharp- 

 pointed, smooth ; often spined and often centrall}^ inflated. Stato- 

 blast globular ; aperture infundibular ; crust thick, comj)osed of 

 granular or microcell substance, charged with birotulates whose 

 umbonate disks are deeply and irregularly denticulated, arranged 

 parallel to each other and perj^endicular to the chitinous coat." 

 Carter. (Ann. and Mag. 1881 p. 92.) 



My observations upon this species as found abundantly in all 

 parts of North America, and in very variable forms, may be sum- 

 med up as follows. — 



Sponge sessile, massive, rarely throwing out short branches an 

 inch or less in length. Color varying from light yellow or brown 

 to a light green, according to exposure. Surface tuberculated or 




220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



irregular ; often exhibiting the deep grooves of incomplete, concen- 

 trating canals, covered only by the dermal film. Pores and osteoles 

 conspicuous. Texture rather firm ; main lines of skeleton spicules 

 and of canals hoi-izontal or nearly parallel to the base of support. 

 Spicules fasciculated. 



Gemniules numerous throughout the entire sponge, but in the 

 deeper parts, most abundant ; sj^herical, very variable in size ; crust 

 variable in thickness; in some forms nearly or quite wanting, 

 whilst in others it is so thick as to promote the formation of birotu- 

 lates in two or three concentric zones. 



Skeleton spicules curved, fusiform, gradually pointed; varying 

 even in the same specimen from altogether smooth to Entirely spined; 

 but nearly always smooth at the extremities; spines, when present, 

 minute, conical. (PI. IX, figs, i to iv.) 



Dermal and interstitial spicules wanting. 



Birotulate spicules of the gemmules generally short; rotules flat, 

 irregularly rayed, occasionally microspined, rays straight, deeply 

 cat, nearly to the centre of the rotules ; shafts rarely spinous ; spines 

 long, tapering. (PI. IX, figs, i to iv.) 



3Ieas. Skeleton spicules 0-01 by 0-0005 inches. Length of 

 birotulate 0-0005 inches. Diameter of rotules 0-0007 inches. 



Sab. In lakes or ponds ; preferring standing water. 



Loc. Throughout the Eastern and Middle United States gener- 

 ally. 



This species under its former name of Sjyongilla fluviatilis has long 

 been known as one of the two fresh water sponges which, until recently, 

 were the only ones generally recognized in Europe. Like S. lacus- 

 tris it is cosmopolitan in habit, and the study of it in this country 

 from a great number of localities, has shown that it, also, is very 

 variable in some of its parts. For instance, its skeleton spicules, as 

 stated above, vary, in specimens from different localities, and to a 

 less extent in those from the same locality, or even in the same 

 specimen, from totally smooth to entirely spined ; and the species 

 named on account of the prevalence of one or other of these condi- 

 tions will have to be given up. Its birotulates also vary greatly in 

 size and proportions, in contour of their shafts and the character of 

 their rays. A few forms may be so definite in their peculiarities, 

 and repeat them in so many localities, as to warrant the use of 

 varietal names ; but in this as in other cases it seems best to include 

 all within a definite range in the species under its familiar name. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221 



3f. fluviatilis certainly cannot be called a branching sjoonge, but 

 in some localities, particularly when growing on the lower side of 

 timbers etc. or in a rapid current, I have found it bearing incon- 

 sequent processes about an inch in length. In color it inclines to a 

 light brown or yellowish, but in our clear northern lakes, where it 

 grows in large patches exposed upon the upper surface of stones, it 

 is described as of a vivid green. 



Meyenia fluviatilis, var. meyeni. 



Spongilla meyeni, Carter. 



Skeleton spicules sparsely microspined, long, cylindrical. Gem- 

 mules spherical; chitinous coat and granular crust relatively thick. 

 Birotulates often in two or three partial series ; shafts long, cylin- 

 drical, generally smooth ; rays of the rotules long, conical, deeply 

 divided. An occasional spicule may be found of an intermediate 

 character between the acerates and the birotulates ; — that is, it 

 resembles a short acerate with whorls of short spines about one 

 fourth its length from either end. 



In his Monograph of 1881 Mr. Carter dropped this one of his 

 original species of Bombay sponges from his classification, merging 

 it with M. fluviatilis. For several reasons I incline to retain it as a 

 variety of that species. The size of the birotulates is far greater 

 than the average in the typical species, and their cylindrical shafts 

 and symmetrical forms give them a peculiar beauty. Their occa- 

 sional arrangement in multiple series is not unique, but the habit 

 was first noticed in this variety. 



Meas. Skeleton spicules 0*0108 by O'OOOl iuches. Length of 

 average birotulate 0'0013 inches. Diameter of rotule 0*001 inches. 



M. fluviatilis, form astrosj^erma. Potts. Syn. Proc. Acad. etc. 

 1880, p. 357. 



The name "star seeded" was applied before the author had the 

 opportunity to compare this with the European tyj^e, or even 

 with collections from other parts of this country. It is a beautiful 

 form of the species, with birotulates sufficiently scattered over the 

 surface of the gemmule, to show as stars upon a silver dome (PI. V. 

 fig. V.) It was found at Lehigh Gap, Pennsylvania; but cannot 

 claim to be even a variety. 



M. polymorpha, Syn. was suggested to me by the great numbers 

 of misshapen or incomplete forms surrounding the statoblasts ; as in 

 (PI. IX, fig. iv, e, e, e.) These, as my friend Mr. Carter has shown 

 me, are nearly all abortive birotulates; and when we inquire into 

 their cause we find that they occur almost solely upon gemmules 




222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



where the granular crust is wanting. How this absence so affects 

 them, and, in fact, how this class of spicules is developed upon the 

 chitinous coat, must be left to the investigations of later students. 



The abnormal habit just mentioned leads us to consider the next 

 variety, in which the modification assumes greater definiteness. 



M. fluviatilis var. acuminata, Potts. (PL IX, fig. ii.) Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 1882, 

 p. 70. 



"Sponge probably altogether sessile and massive, consisting of an 

 intertexture of stout, fusiform-acerate skeleton spicules, abruptly 

 pointed, coarsely spined, except near the extremities; spines sub- 

 conical, acute, dermal spicules absent or undiscovered. Gemmules 

 without granular crust ; some of them supporting a few, misplaced, 

 irregular or malformed birotulate spicules, the distinguishing feature 

 of which, is the prolongation of the familiar boss or umbo upon the 

 outer surface of each rotule, into a long, acuminate spine, in line 

 with and a continuation of the shaft." 



Meas. Skeleton spicules 0-00985 by 0-0005 inches. Length of 

 birotulates 0-00107 inches. Diameter of rotules 0-0007 inches. 



To the description above quoted from the "Proceedings etc.," is 

 appended the following in regard to the association of this variety 

 of 31. fluviatilis with Spongilla var. jyaupercula in the Boston Water 



sujDply. — 



"The exceptional features referred to as marking this collection 

 of sponges, were ; first, the fact that all the gemmules, whether be- 

 longing to the genus Spongilla or Meijenia, were smooth, that is 

 without a granular or cellular crust ; second, the apparent absence 

 of dermal spicules from both, and the abnormal character of those 

 belonging to the gemmules. The occurrence of naked gemmules is 

 not infrequent, but has, so far as known, heretofore been limited to 

 the genus Spongilla. The discovery of the same feature in the 

 associated genus Meyenia, coupled with the fact that of the small 

 number of birotulates found upon them, a large proportion were 

 imperfect, the rays being more or less aborted, approximating their 

 shape to that of the spined, fusiform acerates of Spongilla, gave rise 

 to the suggestion that here, possibly, had been not merely a mechan- 

 ical mixture, by inter-, or super-position of two dissimilar species, 

 but an organic hybridization, produced by the flowing together of 

 the amffiboid particles of which the sponge flesh is composed." 



Meyenia fluviatilis, var. mexicana, Potts. Am. Nat. Aug. 18S5, p. 810. 



I find little of novelty in my description of this variety except 

 the following. "Birotulate spicules pertaining to the gemmules, in 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 223 



length about three times the diameter of the rotules; shafts nearly 

 cylindrical, sometimes more slender near the middle, irregularly 

 spiued ; spines long, acute. Rotules flat, deeply notched ; rays ir- 

 regular, acute." 



"'Meas. Skeleton spicules 0'0152 by 0"0006 inches. Length of 

 birotulates 0*0021 inches. Diameter of rotules 0.0009 inches." 



It is added that "this species (var.) collected by Prof E. D. Cope 

 in Lake Xochimilco, about eight miles south of the city of Mexico, 

 differs from the familiar M. fluvlatilis chiefly in the far greater 

 length of the shafts of the birotulate spicules. The specimens 

 examined were probably collected in an immature condition, as 

 suggested by the abundance of sarcode and the scarcity of gemmulae 

 or statoblasts. The single small group that alone rewarded a care- 

 ful search through the whole mass of material sufficed, however, to 

 fix its generic and approximately its specific relations. The shapes 

 or proportions of the birotulate spicules Avould probably indicate its 

 association with the following. 



Meyenia fluviatilis, var. angustibirotulata, Carter. Ann. and Mag. etc., 

 June It^So, p. 454:. 



"Sponge coating the stems of aquatic plants to the extent of one 

 sixth of an inch in thickness all around. Consistence elastic, fragile. 

 Color light yellow-brown. Skeletal spicule smooth, curved, fusiform^ 

 gradually sharp-pointed, varying in size under 75 by 3-6000 ths. 

 inches in its greatest dimensions. 



Statoblast globular, even on the surface, and white in color when 

 fully developed ; infundibularly depressed over the hilous opening 

 of the chitinous coat; about^fi^ths. inches in diameter ; consisting of 

 the usual germinal contents, surrounded by a layer of birotules in 

 juxtaposition, arranged pei'pendicularly over the chitinous coat, 

 and filled in between with a microcell-structure up to the umbos of 

 the birotulates, which, being naked and allowing the light to pass 

 through them, present a dark point respectively, like minute holes 

 in the midst of the white microcell-substance ; birotule consisting 

 of a cylindrical shaft, more or less constricted in the middle, which 

 is sometimes furnished with one or more spines; rotule fringed 

 toward the margin rather than denticulated, so as to present a stri- 

 ated appearance, which does not reach the umbo or centre ; total 

 length of birotule about Tso^^ths. inches." Carter. 



Log. England and America. 




224 PEOCEEDIKGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Collected by Mr. B. W. Thomas fi-om Calumet Eiver, near Chi- 

 cago, Illinois ; also by Mr. J. G. Waller, "Ditchley's Manor," Es- 

 sex, England. 



Meyenia fluviatilis, var. gracilis, Carter. Ann. and Mag. Sept. 18S5, p. ISO. 



"Sponge delicate in structure, which is soft, whitish or colorless 

 in spirit, presenting the aspect of glue or sarcode Avhen dry ; grow- 

 ing over the stem of an aquatic plant in a thin layer charged be- 

 neath with statoblasts (gemmules). Spicules of two forms, viz : — 

 1, skeletal, very fine and delicate, acerate, curved, cylindrical, about 

 34 to 36 by j-6000th. inch in its greatest dimensions ; chiefly confined 

 to the fibre ; 2, statoblast spicules, shaft long, cylindrical, often slight- 

 ly curved, smooth, also very thin and delicate; head small, flat, radiate- 

 ly denticulated, the ends of the rays not recurved ; often umbonated 

 by a projecting spine or process; total length about eoVirths. inches ; 

 head 1 i-6000ths. inches in diameter; shaft about five times longer than 

 the diameter of the head, about i-6000th. inch thick ; chiefly confined 

 to the statoblast, but also loose and numerous in the tissue generally. 

 Statoblast globular when wet, hemispherical and depressed in the 

 direction of the apei'ture when dry ; wheu f\i\\j formed about 65 to 

 75-6000ths. inches in diameter. Aperture slightly marginated, i. e. 

 slightly raised above the common level, about eAoths. inches in diam- 

 eter. Surface of statoblast rough or uneven. In a section through 

 the centi'e the crust is seen to be a little thicker than the length of 

 the birotules, which, as usual, are arranged perpendicularly to 

 the yellow chitiuous coat beneath and parallel to each other, with 

 one head resting on the chitinous coat and the surface of the other 

 free at the circumference ; cemented together and held in position 

 by the microcell-structure or "float," which, projecting above the 

 level of the outer heads of the birotules, gives rise to the roughened 

 state of the surface of the statoblast. Chitinous coat and germinal 

 contents the same as in the Spongillm generally. Size of specimen 

 sent to me about i by \ inch horizontalh'." Carter. 



Log. "Ice Factory Lakes, DeLand, Florida, near the St. John's 

 Eiver." Collected by H. Mills. 

 (6) Meyenia (Ephydatia)miilleri,Lieberkuhn. See Vejdovsky "Diagnosis." p. 177. 



Of the varieties of this species v. amphizona and v. mirabilis as 

 well as those species which Mr. H. Mills has grouped under the gen- 

 eric name "Pleiomeyenia" as P. calumeticus, P. walkeri, and P. sjnn- 

 ifera, 1 can only say that they have been founded upon the presence 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225 



of duplicate or triplicate series of birotulates around the gemmulse ; 

 that this feature was observed long ago, in the case of S. meyeni, 

 Carter, since merged with Meyenia Jlnviatilis by the author ; and 

 that it did not seem to him nor does it appear to me to be specific, 

 though well worthy of notice. It may be questioned whether the 

 peculiai-ity would not be found in any specimens that had grown 

 where food or silica had been unusually abundant. 



(7) Meyenia (Ephydatia) bohemica, F. Petr. See "Diagnosis." p. 179. 



(8) Meyenia robusta, Potts. (PI. IX, fig. y.) 



Sponge massive, encrusting. Skeleton spicules subfusiform, 

 pointed, smooth, Gemmules scarce, birotulates of large size and 

 generally "monstrous" in form ; irregularly shaped, shafts abound- 

 ing in spines as long as the rays of the rotulse, cylindrical or 

 conical. 



A large specimen of this species, if it be not properly a variety of 

 M. fluviatilis, was found in the INIuseum of the Academy of Nat. 

 Sci. of Phila. marked, "presented by Dr. Geo. H. Horn ; collected 

 by him from Honey Lake Valley near Susanville, California." 



Meas. Skeleton spicules 0"01175 by 0*00055 inches. Length of 

 birotulates 0"00095 inches. Diameter of rotules 0"0008 inches. 



(9) Meyenia millsii, Potts. (PI. X, fig. ii.) 

 Sponge encrusting; texture loose. 

 Gemmulse spherical, small, surface smooth. 



Skeleton spicules nearly straight, cylindrical, slender, rather ab- 

 ruptly pointed, entirely microspined ; sj^ines few, low, conical. 



Dermal spicules absent or undetermined. (A few minute forms 

 sometimes slightly curved, cylindrical but inflated near the middle, 

 may be only the initial condition of the birotulates befoie their disks 

 have been fully developed.) 



Birotulates surrounding the gemmules very numerous and sym- 

 metrical, their outer rotulije forming a smooth exterior to the gem- 

 mule. Shafts nearly cylindrical, but rapidly widening immediately 

 under the rotules ; frequently with a single spine near the middle. 

 Umbonate rotulte large, flat ; margins finely lacinulate, often mi- 

 crospined upon both surfaces. 



Meas. Skeleton spicules O'OIOT by 0'0005 inches. Birotulates 

 0-0012 by 0-00015 inches. Diameter of rotules 0-00075 inches. 



Log. Collected from Sherwood Lake near DeLaud, Florida, by 

 Henry Mills, Esq. 




226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Kespectfully dedicated to my friend Mr. Mills of Buffalo N. Y. 

 to whose perseverence as a collector we owe this and the following 

 beautiful species; the first new forms from the state of Florida; 

 besides specimens of S. fragilis, M. fluviatilis and S. ryderi at this 

 southernmost point of their range. 

 (10) Meyenia subdivisa, Potts. (PI. IX, fig. vi.) 



Sponge green when growing in the light, massive, encrusting; 

 texture compact; composed of thick lines of fiisciculated spicules 

 and having a peculiarly vitreous, glistening appearance when dried. 

 Surface smooth or rising into more or less abrupt rounded promi- 

 nences, near the extremities of which the efferent osteoles are found. 

 Pores numerous, conspicuous. 



Gemmules few, spherical, resembling in appearance those of the 

 genus Seteromeyenia; granular crust very thick. 



Skeleton spicules cylindrical, robust, abrujJtly pointed, smooth; 

 the smaller ones more or less microspined. In many places at the 

 surface they gather into flocculeut or wool-like masses, com2:)actly 

 grouped, without interspaces. (See remarks on Tubella pennsylva- 

 7iica.') 



Dermal spicules absent or undiscovered. 



Birotulate spicules surrounding the gemmules very numerous ; so 

 crowded that some become displaced and, standing out beyond the 

 others, simulate the appearance of the longer class of birotulates in 

 Heteromeyema. As all are of the same general shape however, and 

 nearly of the same size, it is thought best to retain the species in the 

 present genus. These spicules are very robust and the abundance of 

 silicious material is evidenced by the repeated subdivision of every 

 ray and spine. (PI. IX, fig. vi, e. e. e.) Shafts cylindrical, fre- 

 quently spined; rotules fiat, irregularly circular, notched but 

 slightly at the margin. Short rays subdivided. 



Meas. Skeleton spicules O'Ol by O'OOOG inches. Birotulate 

 spicules 0"0017 by 0-0003 inches. Diameter of rotules 0-0009 inches. 



Hab. On submerged timber etc. 



Loc. Collected by Mr. H. Mills in St. John's Kiver near Palatka, 

 Florida. 



Dr. Bowerbank has remarked (Proc. Zool. Soc. 1868, p. 443, 

 etc.) uj)on the number and variety of sponge spicules noticed by him 

 in a collection of infusorial earth, made by Prof Bailey in Florida ; 

 and from this fact and the descriptions of other travellers it has long 

 seemed to me an ideally favorable place for the growth of sponges. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 227 



As circumstances prevented personal exploration in that direction, 

 repeated efforts have been made to enlist the assistance of intending 

 visitors, in the search for them ; and much disappointment was felt 

 when one friend, a most successful collector in other lines of natural 

 history, reported that he could find none, attributing his failure and 

 their apparent absence to the abundance of confervse covering every 

 probable place of their growth. 



Since these failures Mr. Mills has made two visits to Florida; 

 both during the latter part of our winter season, say from February 

 to April; and the experience gained in many Northern waters has 

 helped him to success in these. He has gathered several familiar 

 species of Spongilla, Meyenia, Heteromexjenia, and Tuhella, beside 

 the two novel forms just described. The first of these, M. milUii, 

 approaches M. fiuviatilis, but differs from any of its varieties in the 

 character of its rotules, which, instead of being deeply cut into rays, 

 are delicately fringed or lacinulated like those of the smaller class 

 of birotulates in H. ryderii. (Compare PI. X, fig. ii, with PI.' XI, 

 fig. V. c. c. c.) 



The finest specimen of M. subdivisa grew upon the bark of a 

 submerged pine log in the St. John's River, near Palatka, and 

 covered it to the extent of two or more square feet, by an average 

 of one half or three fourths (3f an inch in thickness. Its peculiarities 

 are perhaps sufficiently stated above, but I remember being much 

 impressed by the vitreous appearance mentioned, as suggesting that 

 of the tropical South American forms of Tuhella, Parmula and 

 Uruguaya. A further search at jDoints nearer the Southern ex- 

 tremity of the peninsula may give us some of these. 

 (11) Meyenia (Spongilla) baileyi, Bk. Proc. Zool Soc. etc. 1863, p. 451. 



"Sponge coating; surface smooth? Oscula and pores inconsjiicuous. 

 Dermal membrane spiculous; spicula fusiform-acerate, entirely 

 spined : spines of the middle cylindrical, truncated, very long and 

 large. Skeleton spicula subfusiform-acerate, rather slender. Inter- 

 stitial membranes spiculous; spicula same as those of the dermal 

 membrane. varia globular, smooth, abundantly spiculous ; spicula 

 arranged in lines radiating from the centre to the circumference of 

 the ovary; birotulate; rotulse irregularly and deeply cleft at the 

 margins, incurvate; shaft very long, cylindrical, entirely spined; 

 spines conical. Color in the dried state dark green." Bowerbank. 



"Hah. A stream on Canterbury Road, West Point, New York," 



(See remarks as to Heteromeyenia repens.) 




228 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



<12) Meyenia (Spongilla) capewelli, Bk. Proc. Zool. Soc. etc. 1863, p. 447. 



"Sponge massive, sessile ; surface vmeveu, often lobular, smooth, 

 Oscula simple, minute, dispersed. Pores inconspicuous. Dermal 

 membrane pellucid, asi^iculous; skeleton sj)icula acerate, rather short 

 and stout. Ovaria subglobose ; spicula birotulate, rather long, dis- 

 posed in lines radiating from the centre of the ovary ; rotulas flat, 

 margins slightly and irregularly crenulate; shafts slender, incipiently 

 spinous, varying in length from one to one and a half diameter of a 

 rotula. Color dull green, with a tint of yellow." Bowerbank. 



Hah. Lake Hindmarsh, Victoria, Australia." 

 (13) Meyenia anonyma, Carter. Ann. and Mag. etc. 1881, p. 95. 



"Sponge unknown, statoblast flask shaped; aperture terminal; 

 composed of a membranous coat, striated longitudinally, supporting 

 a reticulation consisting of extremely minute, erect, conical processes 

 with their sharp ends inwards, and presenting in the centre of each 

 interstice, especially towards each fundus, a short, thick, somewhat 

 hour-glass-shaped spicule, whose outer end is more or less denticula- 

 ted and whose inner one is inserted into the striated coat. Investing 

 membrane of the germinal matter transparent, presenting the usual 

 polygonal reticulation without granules, like compressed cell- 

 structure." Carter, 



Log. River Amazons. 



(14) Meyenia ramsayi, W. A. Haswell. Proc. Linn. Soc. New South AVales, 

 1882, p. 209. 



"Sponge massive, tubercular, with finger-like projections. 

 Skeleton-spicules curved, abruptly pointed, smooth, 

 Birotulate spicules, shafts cylindrical, with one to ten prominent 

 spines ; rotulte deeply dentate ; twelve to twenty teeth. 

 Log. Bell River at Wellington, Australia." Haswell. 



(15) Meyenia crateriformis, Potts. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. etc. 1882, p. 12. (PI. 

 V, fig. vi. PL X, fig. V.) 



Sponge encrusting, thin ; texture very loose, forming no tangible 

 skeleton. 



Gemmules small, white, very numerous, visible from the upper 

 or outer side of the sponge. Granular crust relatively extraordi- 

 narily thick, embedding slender spicules of great length. The 

 foraminal tubule, standing at the centre of a crater-like depression 

 amongst these, has suggested the specific name. In position the 

 shafts of these long birotulates are rarely parallel, but, leaning to 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 229 



each side, cross each other in a perplexing and beautiful manner. 

 (PL V. fig. vi.) 



Skeleton spicules slender, fusiform, gradually pointed, sparsely 

 and minutely microsi^ined. 



Dermal spicules somewhat apocryphal. (While smooth, slender, 

 cylindrical forms that seem to be such, j^rove, in their further 

 development, to have been merely immature birotulates, pertaining 

 to the gemmules, there are others, still more slender and acuminate, 

 that may be strictly dermal.) 



Birotulates of the gemmules very long and slender; shaft cylin- 

 drical, whose length is five or six times the diameter of the suppor- 

 ted rotules ; abundantly spined, more particularly near the ends ; 

 spines long, cylindrical, rounded or recurved. Rotules composed of 

 3 to 6 short, recurved hooks with finely acuminate points. (PI. X, 

 fig. V, b.b.b.). 



Meas. Diameter of gemmules 0'013 inches. Skeleton spicules 

 0"01 by 0'0004 inches. Length of birotulate spicules 0'0025 inches. 

 Diameter of rotules 0'0004 ; of shaft 0'00015 inches. 



Hah. On fixed or floating timber in shallow w^ater. 



Log. Crowe's Mill, Brandywine Creek; Ivy Mills, Chester Creek; 

 Fairmount Dam, Schuylkill River ; and League Island and Lam- 

 bertville, Delaware River, Pennsylvania. 



The tradition that associates the Brandywine Battle Ground with 

 the vision Lord Percy is said to have had of such a scene before 

 leaving England, as the spot where he should meet his death in bat- 

 tle, is so far justified by the fact that it is indeed one of the loveli- 

 est scenes in Pennsylvania. These undulating hills, crowned with 

 forest or waving with golden grain ; the emerald meadows lining 

 the broad stream on either side ; the smaller brooklets gathering in 

 the hollows and gurgling among the rocks, as they wind their way 

 down to the main stream, form a scene of peace and tranquility 

 which it is difllcult to fill, in our own imaginations, with conflict 

 and bloodshed or cover with the "thunder clouds of war." 



It lay thus peacefully one summer day in 1881, when our wagons 

 drew up near the old fashioned grist and saw mills, then occupied 

 by Mr. Frank Crowe, about one mile above Chadd's Ford, made 

 famous on that Revolutionary occasion. Some of the party went 

 "a-fishing," but of course sponge hunting was the order of the day 

 with the writer. Drawing on high rubber boots, I waded into the 

 stream where the broad mill-race, a creek in itself though but a 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



small portion of the Brandy wine, narrows into the forebay and hur- 

 ries on to the clattering wheels. At this point a rock-built over- 

 flow, like a dam breast, had checked a number of nearly water-log- 

 ged timbers, and others were aground in the shallow water below. 

 Many of these when turned over disclosed specimens of a filmy gray 

 sponge, branching off here and there aloiig the surface of the wood, 

 yet with a curious want of continuity, as if its particles, in their haste 

 to march forward, had neglected to keep open communication with 

 their base of supplies. All along the lines and dotting the broader 

 portions, small white or yellowish gemmules gleamed through the 

 thin dermis, instead of being buried as in most other sponges in the 

 deeper parts of the tissues. 



This was the first discovery of Ji". crater if or mis ; it was afterward 

 found in somewhat similar situations and with like characteristics 

 in several other Pennsylvaniau streams. So far as I remember, 

 none of this species has reached me from abroad, except in one in- 

 stance, where the situation and circumstances were entirely dissim- 

 ilar. They will be found described in association with the sketch of 

 Meyenia jjlumosa. 



M. crater if or mis was far from being the only sponge found on the 

 occasion above described. In the lower corner of each mill, where 

 the water boiled and rushed as it escaped from under the wheels, 

 the stones and timbers bore many specimens of S. lacustris, S. fra- 

 gilis and 31. fiuviatilis, The growth of the second of these, upon 

 timbers lining the inner walls of the grist mill, was particularly 

 abundant, nearly white and full of segregated spores. 

 (16) Meyenia everetti, Mills. Proc. Am. Soc. Micros. 1884. (PI. X, fig. iii, and iy.) 



Sponge green, without sessile portion, but consisting altogether of 

 slender meandering filaments, little more than a sixteenth of an 

 inch in diameter ; made up of central lines of closely fasciculated 

 skeleton spicules, with short thin lines of the same, diverging at an- 

 gles of 30 to 50 degrees, and, on the surface, numerous single spic- 

 ules, as yet unplaced, and forming no j^roper network. Near their 

 ends the fronds were abruptly reduced, nearly to the diameter of the 

 central band of spicules, and appeared to terminate in a sharp 

 point. 



Gemmules few but unusually large, as the crust is thick and the 

 embedded birotulates are longer than in most other species. " They 

 are found axially, in a single series, along the fronds ; each enclosed 

 in a rather loosely formed capsule or cage of skeleton spicules, the 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 231 



diameter of which is much greater than that of the included gem- 

 mule. 



Skeleton spicules slender, cylindrical, gradually or more abruptly 

 pointed, smooth. (PL X, fig. iii and iv, a.a.a.) 



Dermal spicules, minute birotulates with slender, cylindrical 

 shafts, and cap-like rotules, notched at margin into five or six hooks. 

 (PI, X, as above, c.d.e.) 



Birotulates surrounding the geramules long, but variable in length. 

 Shafts smooth, slender, particularly near the middle ; widening and 

 becoming almost club-shaped at the extremities, where the rotules 

 are formed of five or six stout, recurved, acuminate hooks. 



3feas. Diameter of gemmules 0*027 inches. Skeleton spicules 

 0-0082 by 0-0002 inches. Gemmule birotulates 0-0025 by 0-0001 

 inches. Diameter of rotule 0-0008 inches. Length of minute dermal 

 birotulate 0-00063 inches. 



Hab. On submerged grass, weeds etc. in shallow water. 



Loc. Gilder Pond, Mt. Everett, Berkshire Co. Mass; collected 

 by F. Wolle and H. S. Kitchel: MacKay's Lake, Pictou Co. 

 Nova Scotia; Collected by A. H. MacKay. 



My friends Dr. Francis Wolle and H. S. Kitchel Esq. of Bethle- 

 hem, Pennsylvania, in the pursuit of their favorite study of des- 

 mids and diatoms visited Mt. Everett near the extreme S.W. 

 corner of Massachussetts, in September 1882. While devoted to 

 their own specialty they yet in the spirit of true naturalists found 

 real pleasure in gathering subjects in other departments of natural 

 history, for the benefit of their absent friends. 



In a note transmitting specimens and written immediately after 

 their return, Mr. Kitchel says. — "Gilder Pond is a small pond 

 some 1800 ft. above the sea, on the side of the mountain, fed by 

 springs at the bottom and the drainage from still higher- ground ; 

 no inlet, and no outlet except a small stream, which drains through 

 the ground at one end." "It is almost entirely surrounded by rocks 

 and the water is very pure and cold." "The sponge was first found 

 upon the ground in shallow water; afterward in great quantities 

 on submerged bushes etc. along the edge of the pond." 



A card from Dr. AVolle a few days later gave the elevation as 

 2400 feet. The rough sketches prepared by both gentlemen to 

 suggest its appearance while growing, indicated a delicate branching 

 sponge, but the specimens sent had been packed between cards and 

 forwarded by letter ; in one case, at least, after partial decomposition 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



in a bottle of water. There was nothing therefore in the fragments 

 themselves to convince me of their external form except the sugges- 

 tive presence of the broad bands of fasciculate skeleton spicules 

 referred to in the description. 



Four years passed before I was able, by my own observations, to 

 verify the impression so vaguely gathered. It was during the last 

 week of September 1886 that I journeyed for the first time, to Gilder 

 Pond, with the primary object of determining the character of this 

 sponge. Primary but not sole, for no one familiar with the beauty 

 of the Berkshire Hills, would quite credit the assertion that even 

 the most enthusiastic naturalist could limit his enjoyment of them 

 to the act of gathering an insignificant sponge from a tarn upon the 

 mountain side. 



No, I saw and enjoyed all that the summer tourist enjoys, the 

 sombre forests, the lichen-covered rocks; the mountain summits near 

 at hand, the wide extended view Avhich each gave to its visitors. 

 I also climbed Mt. Everett, "the dome of the Taconics," and sat 

 alone, the center of an unbroken horizon, embracing hundreds of 

 square miles of such varied beauty as may well be the memory of a 

 life time; — but to all this was added the unspeakable charm of a 

 morning spent on the bosom of that little lake, shut in by the silent 

 woods, its flora and its fauna clearly revealed through the bright 

 waters below me. I will not believe that a scientific interest in 

 natural objects can lessen one's enjoyment of the sights and the 

 sounds, the scents and the colors that greet him ; the reviving touch 

 of the evening breeze or the exhilarant purity of this mountain air : 

 it adds, instead, a sixth sense, the hope or the joy of discovery. 



I found the present species very abundant and others hardly 

 less so ; one of them I shall have occasion to describe hereafter. 

 M. everetti was widely spread over the bottom of the pond, not on 

 the mud however, the sedimentary alluvium that had gathered here 

 to a great depth ; but on the water- weeds and grasses, the submerged 

 verdure, over which it had crawled in slender threads, reaching 

 from leaf to stem and from blade to leaf, as if some giant spider had 

 spun them ; but even more like the wavering, inconsequent trail left 

 by a snail or an earth-worm to mark its nightly wanderings. With 

 arm bared and fingers used as a rake, I could gather it plentifully ; 

 but its lines were so utterly flaccid that they at once became matted 

 and massed together so as to lose all individuality. Some, now in 

 the bottle at my side, were immersed almost immediately in alcohol, 

 which hardened and preserved it. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



This species is a very interesting one, furnishing the first instance 

 among fresh-water sponges, in which the dermal spicule, generally 

 a slender, smooth or more or less spiniferous acerate, is here seen as 

 a well defined and symmetrical birotulate. Mr. Carter has kindly 

 brought to my notice a very similar spicule occupying a like position 

 in the marine form Halichondria birotulafa, Higgins, from the "West 

 Indies and S. Australia ; but in the case of those from fresh-waters, 

 we have had nothing more definite than the immature or apocryphal 

 forms in 31. crater if ormis. The very peculiar dermal spicules char- 

 acterizing 31. plumosa are most suggestive of this, or possibly, of a 

 still more advanced type. (SpongiUa hohmii and S. novce terrce, were 

 discovered later.) 



The re-discovery of this species among the magnificent collections 

 of sponges made by Mr. MacKay from the water-shed and other 

 lakes abounding in Pictou County, Nova Scotia, gave me great 

 pleasure, as showing the persistence of the type in widely separated 

 districts ; and for the confirmation it afforded of my previous obser- 

 vation, as to the general strengthening of spicular features in sponges 

 as their localities approach sea-level. 



(17) Meyenia plumosa, Carter; {Spongilla plumosa, Qnxtev.) Ann. and 

 Mag. Nat. Hist. 1849, p. 81. 



"Massive, lobate. Structure feathery, fibrous, friable. Color 

 greenish or light-brown. Skeleton-si^icule curved, fusiform, grad- 

 ually sharp-pointed, smooth. Flesh-spicule stelliform, consisting of 

 a variable number of arms of various lengths radiating from a 

 large, smooth globular body ; arms spined throughout ; spines long- 

 est at the ends, so as to present a capitate appearance, and recurved 

 generally ; the whole varying from a simple, sj^inous linear spicule 

 to the stellate form first mentioned, thus modified by the size and 

 presence of the globular inflation and number of arms developed 

 from the centre of the former ; abundant in all parts of the struct- 

 ure, but especially in the neighborhood of the statoblasts. Stato- 

 blast ellipsoidal ; aperture lateral, infundibular ; crust, which is 

 thick and composed of granular microcell-substance, charged with 

 birotulate spicules consisting of a long, straight, sparsely spiniferous 

 shaft whose spines are large, conical and perpendicular, terminated 

 at each end by an umbonate disk of equal size, whose margin is ir- 

 regularly denticulated, with the processes more or less turned in- 

 wards, arranged perpendicularly, with one disk resting on the chiti- 



16 




234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1887. 



nous coat and the other forming part of the surface of the crust." 

 Carter. 



Log. Bombay. 



Meyenia plumosa, var. palmeri, Potts. Proe. U. S. Natl. Museum, 1885, p. 

 587. (PI. X, fig. vi.) 



Sponge (as seen in a dry state) dark brown, massive, attached to and 

 surrounding the dependent branches of small trees whose stems are 

 flooded by the spring freshets. Texture very loose and when dry so 

 brittle that the dermal surface cannot be satisfactorily examined. 

 (The impression conveyed by the interior appearance of this sponge 

 is that it is made uj) of an infinite number of radiating, confluent 

 branches.) 



Gemmulse large, numerous throughout the deeper portions of the 

 sponge ; subspherical or ovoid, surrounded by long birotulates im- 

 bedded in a granular crust. 



Skeleton spicules straight or slightly curved, mainly cylindrical 

 but gradually sharp-pointed, sparsely microspined. (PI. X, fig. vi, a.) 



Dermal spicules irregularly stellate as in the typical species, but, 

 in the specimens examined, much fewer in number. They vary 

 from simple acerates with one or more long divergent branches to 

 beautiful radiate-spherical bodies whose rays are nearly equal, spined, 

 and capitate by reason of recurved spines at their extremities, 

 (ibid, e, e, e, f.) Another form of spicule, probably also dermal, 

 of which several are seen upon nearly every slide prepared for mi- 

 croscopic examination, is very difficult of description. It may be 

 said to be composed of an irregular series of smooth, curved rays 

 arising from a nearly common centre, and is somewhat suggestive 

 of a hedgehog or Scotch tei-rier. (ibid, g. g.) 



Birotulate spicules pertaining to the gemmulse, in length about 

 three times the diameter of the supported rotules ; shafts cylindrical, 

 plentifully spined ; spines long, conical. Outer surface of rotules 

 convex, margins lacinulate; ends of incomplete rays obtuse, re- 

 curved, (ibid, b, c, d.) 



Sponge masses subspherical, reaching five or six inches in diam- 

 eter. 



This sponge, collected by Dr. Edward Palmer along the banks 

 of the Colorado River, near Lerdo, Sonora, in Northwestern Mex- 

 ico, about 59 miles S.S.W. from Fort Yuma, California, is a valuable 

 addition to the sponge fauna of this continent and interesting from 

 the fact that the typical species, M. plumosa of Carter, has hereto- 




1887.] NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 235 



fore only been found in his original locality, the rock water-tanks of 

 Bombay, East Indies. That it should skip a whole hemisphere and 

 only be found the second time at its own antipodes is indeed re- 

 markable. 



The lower reaches of the Colorado of the West extend for miles 

 through a region described by the collector as "the hottest, driest, 

 and most barren in the United States," whose "vegetation consists of 

 mesquit, cacti, and the screw-bean, iStrombocarpus pubescens." Its 

 normal border lands are known as the "first" and "second bot- 

 toms," of which the latter are the higher and of course more distant 

 from the channel. By the frequent changes in its bed however, 

 the river cuts through these and, washing away the one and filling 

 up the other, reverses their physical conditions. Upon the "second 

 bottoms" then, said to be only reached to any considerable depth 

 by the annual floods occurring during parts of May and June, 

 and not to continue flooded more than six weeks at a time, the 

 screw-bean abounds. It is described as a small tree of the general 

 appearance of a peach tree, but with more slender, drooping branches. 

 More or less of an alkaline deposit whitens the ground upon which 

 they grow, and the approaching traveler is puzzled to see in strong^ 

 contrast with it, hundreds or even thousands of dark masses, "like 

 wasp's nests," suspended two or three feet above. 



It was this conundrum that confronted Dr. Palmer during his 

 recent visit, and the answer we have in the sponge before us. From 

 the Amazon River in the tropics to the waters of Maine and Nova 

 Scotia in the temperate regions of the north, sponges have long been 

 known to affect the pendent branches of stream-bordering bushes ; 

 but it is unlikely that they have ever before been observed in such 

 quantities susj^ended for nine or ten months of the year over land 

 parched and desolate. 



On referring to the earlier descriptions of his discoveries, by H. J. 

 Carter, we find that though he collected this species on two or 

 more occasions, the fragments were always found detached from 

 their place of growth and floating upon the surface in the 

 water-tanks referred to, about one month after the rainy season 

 had commenced. He believed that the vitality of the gemmules 

 was preserved during the dry season, notwithstanding their exj)os- 

 ure to the sun and desiccating winds, and that their germination 

 after the water had again reached them was followed by a very rapid 

 growth of new sponge. This would seem to have been the case also 




236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



with the present variety as, according to the reports of the collector, 

 the masses could not have been submerged for a greater period than 

 six weeks in any one year. Whether the whole bulk as now seen 

 was attained during a single season, or is the cumulative result of 

 several annual growths of the persistent masses, cannot now be de- 

 termined. (See description of Parrnula brownii.) 



It is worthy of notice that 31. plumosa and this variety, v.palmeri; 

 differ from all other known fresh-water sponges by the presence in 

 them of a comjDOund or substellate dermal spicule. The spiculse of 

 the dermis throughout the group are generally minute, spined acer- 

 ates ; in M. everetti, Mills, Ave find them as minute birotulates. 

 In this species the two forms seem to be combined ; the spines have 

 become central and prolonged, while their capitate extremities 

 suggest the rotules of the last-named species. 



Of the six sponge masses from the above locality, sent by the 

 Smithsonian Institution for examination, the smallest was some- 

 what fusiform in shape and proved to belong to a different species, 

 Meyenia crater if ormis, Potts, heretofore found along the eastern 

 border of the United States. In it alone, the mass was not dark, 

 ened by the presence of some pervading vegetable parasite, 



(III) Gen. HETEROMEYENIA, Potts. 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., 1881, p. 150. (PI. VI, fig. i.) 



Gen. char. Skeleton spicules and gemmulse as in Meyetvia ; the 

 latter surrounded by intermingled birotulates of tioo classes, gen- 

 erally differing in form, and whose shafts are of unequal lengths. The 

 proximal disks of all rest upon the chitinous coat ; the outer ex- 

 tremities of the less numerous class projecting beyond the others. 



This genus now covers at least three well defined species, with 

 several marked varieties, and represents a type or modification of 

 Meyenia unknown to Mr. Carter at the time of the prej^aration of 

 Ms system. It was founded in 1881 upon the discovery of H. repens 

 and H. argyrosperma at Lehigh Gap, Pennsylvania ; and its neces- 

 sity was confirmed shortly after by the addition of S. ryderi, and 

 its several varieties. It will be seen by the genus definition that it 

 is not intended to embrace mere irregularities in the positions or in 

 the length of gemmule-birotulates, such as may sometimes be found 

 in M. everetti or M. subdivisa ; nor yet to include biserial or tri- 

 serial arrangements of them. In each of the three jDrincipal species 

 described there are essential differences, not merely in the length 

 but in the forms of these birotulates; those of the longer class in 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 237 



each case being terminated by long, hooked rays, while the rotules 

 of the others are larger, flatter and more delicately divided. (PI. XI.) 



KEY TO THE SPECIES OF THE GENUS HeTEROMEYENIA. 



1. Rays, of long birotulates noticeably incurved like fish-hooks; 

 rotulie of shorter class mushroom shaped ; shafts generally 

 smooth. Dermal spicules present. (PI. XI, fig. iii.) 



H. repens. 



2. Rays of long birotulates few, (1 to 4) long, stout and claw-like ; 

 shafts with few spines ; rotulie of smaller class very irregular ; 

 shafts abundantly spined. (PI. XI, fig. i and ii.) 



H. argyrosperma. 



3. Rotulse of long birotulates small ; rays hooked ; shafts spinifer- 

 ous : rotulas of smaller class large, flat; margins lacinulate or 

 delicately rayed ; shafts generally smooth. (PI. XI, fig. iv, v, 

 and vi.) H. ryderi. 



(1) Heteromeyenia repens, Potts. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1881, p. 150. (PI. 

 XI, fig. iii.) 



Spongilla repens, Potts. Proc. etc., 1880, p. 357. 



Sponge bright green, encrusting, thin. Texture loose and inco- 

 herent; the projecting lines of skeleton spicules giving it a jjecul- 

 iarly rough appearance. 



Gemmulse not very abundant, spherical ; with granular crust im- 

 bediling two classes of birotulate spicules as described. 



Skeleton spicules rather slender, subfusiform, sparsely micro- 

 spined ; gradually pointed. 



Dermal spicules fusiform, nearly straight, entirely spined ; spines 

 cylindrical, rounded ; those near the middle perpendicular, much 

 longer than the others. 



Gemmule-birotulates of the longer class comparatively few, stand- 

 ing amongst the others ; shafts smooth or microspined, nearly cylin- 

 drical, often irregularly bent. Rotulse dome-shaped, the ends of 

 the recurved rays still further incurved like fish-hooks; termina- 

 tions rounded. (PI. XI, fig. iii, b.b.) 



Birotulates of the shorter class very numerous and symmetrical, 

 about s the length of the others ; shafts generally largest near the 

 middle, or least near the rotules ; often with one or more conspic- 

 uous spines. Curvature of the rotules like that of a mushroom, or 

 rather flat umbrella ; rays not deeply notched ; rounded or slightly 

 incurved. (PL XI, fig. iii, c.c.c.) 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Meas. Skeleton spicules O'Olll by 0'00045 inches. Dermal spic- 

 ules 0-0025 by 0-0001 inches. Shaft of long birotulates 0-0029 by 

 0*00015 inches; diameter of rotule 0*0009 inches. Length of short 

 birotulates 0*00168 inches ; diameter of its rotules 0*0007 inches. 



Hah. On plants, timber, etc., in shallow water. 



Loc. In the pool at Lehigh Gap, Pennsylvania ; in Lake Ho- 

 patcong, New Jersey, and at other places along the Eastern coast 

 of the United States. 



Lehigh Gap, frequently mentioned as a locality in these descrip- 

 tions, is a rail-road station and quiet watering place, where the 

 Lehigh River forces its way through the Blue Mts. in Carbon 

 County, Pennsylvania. The mountain chain or ridge, with an ele- 

 vation of about eleven hundred feet above the river, is here abruptly 

 cut through by it, leaving on one side precipitous, jagged edges of 

 bare rock ; while on the other it more gradually slopes from the 

 river to the summit. 



Nearly at the narrowest point the river is crossed by an old time 

 suspension bridge depending from chains composed of long iron 

 links. On the bank of the river just below, there stands, or until 

 quite recently stood, the ruin of an old mill, that had been burned 

 before the memory of the oldest inhabitant. The mill race, passing 

 under an archway through its walls, was choked by the fallen and 

 blackened timbers, amongst which the water could hardly have 

 been said even to creep, excepting when a freshet in the adjacent 

 river supplied its fauna and flora with a momentary draught of 

 fresh water. 



It so chanced that during the early days of my enthusiasm for 

 sponge collecting, curiosity led me to look into this pool, in reality 

 little more than a very wet cellar, with the result of adding a new 

 genus {Heteromeyenia) to the system of fresh water sponges, with 

 two species pertaining to the same ; also a variety of Spongllla frd- 

 gilis, a form of Meyenia fluviatilis and a new species (T. penn- 

 sylvanica) of the genus Tubella, its first discovery in other waters 

 than those of the River Amazons, South America. Numerous spec- 

 imens of the higher types of minute aquatic life; fine species of 

 Bryozoa etc., gave added interest to this field of work. 



On October 13th., 1880 the first specimen of H. repens was dis- 

 covered upon the stems and leaves of a Potamogeton, by my friend 

 and companion Mr. J. S. Cheyuey ; and after reaching home I found 

 that I had, myself, collected others from the Mien timbers, without 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 239 



recognizing their novelty. Its habit was to creep over submerged 

 timbers and sticks, the leaves of water jjlants, the slender stems 

 of Nitella etc., generally, when upon a smooth surface, assuming 

 vermiform lines, one fourth inch or more in width, along which the 

 gemmules were left in scattered groups. Five years later I found 

 it growing in a similar fashion in Lake Hopatcong, New Jersey. 



I have been thus particular to give the history of this species be- 

 cause of the doubt that may disturb other minds than my own, 

 •whether it may not be identical with 3Ieyenia {Spongilla) baileyi, of 

 Bowerbank; the sponge that Prof. Bailey gathered "from a stream 

 on the Canterbury Road, near West Point, New York." Admit- 

 ting the resemblance of the spicules that Dr. B. has represented and 

 described, to some of those ^lertaining to this species, I would call 

 attention to the fact that he has neither described nor represented 

 the more numerous class of birotulate spicules, which, under the 

 supposition that the sjiecies were identical, would be a singular 

 omission. If stress be laid upon the resemblance of the dermal 

 spicules of the two forms, I remark that two species of Carterius 

 (C tubisperma and C. latitenta) have a similar one. The type spec- 

 imen from which the description by Dr. B. Avas prej^ared, was a 

 very small one and I have not had access to it for final comparison. 

 For these reasons and while a doubt remains as to their identity^ 

 I incline to hold fast by my descriptive title. 



(2) Heteromeyenia argyrosperma, Potts. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1881, p. 

 150. (PI. VI. fig. i.) 



Spongilla argyrosperma, Potts. (Proc. Acad, etc., 1880, p. 357.) 



Sponge minute, encrusting ; color gray ; texture loose. 



GemmuliB abundant; relatively large, on account of the unusually 

 thick granular crust, through which the distal ends of the longer 

 class of surrounding birotulates sometimes project, or support portions 

 of it in many conical prominences. (PI. VI, fig. i.) Foraminal 

 tubule somewhat prolonged; smallest at the extremity. Color silvery 

 white, suggesting the specific name.^ 



Skeleton spicules rather slender, cylindrical or sub-fusiform; 

 abruptly pointed, sparsely spiniferous ; spines small, pointed ; pro- 

 jecting forward towards the extremities of the spicules. (PL XI, 

 fig. i, a.a.) 



^If this and some other of the specific names, derived from the Greek, are 

 found not to be in "good form," I can only regret that the discovery of the rule 

 came too late, and that many alterations of name may be a worse error. 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Dermal spicules apparently wanting. 



Gemmule birotulates of the larger class very robust ; shafts long, 

 irregularly cylindrical, often bent, occasionally spinous ; spines long, 

 pointed, perpendicular or recurved. Rays of the rotulse one to four, 

 assuming the form of strong, claw-like hooks, recurved and incurved, 

 (PL XI, fig. i, b.b.) 



Shorter birotulates much smaller, abundantly spined ; spines 

 long, conical. Rotules flatter, irregularly hooked. (PI. XI, fig. i, 

 e.c.c.) 



Meas. Skeleton siDicules O'OIOO by 0'0004 inches. Long birot- 

 ulates 0-00543 by 0-0003 inches. Diameter of disks or hooks 0-0012 

 inches. Length of short birotulates 0-0028 inches. Diameter of 

 disk 0-0007 inches. 



Sab. On submerged sticks, stones, etc. 



Log. Lehigh Gap and Holicong, Pennsylvania ; New England 

 States, New Jersey, Nova Scotia, etc. 



No other sponge as yet found in American waters, can compare 

 with this, in the robustness and positive characters of its birotulate 

 spicules. It was first found at Lehigh Gap and has since been gath- 

 ered and received from a few other places. 



Notwithstanding its strong points, the sponge itself has been 

 known to occur only as a delicate incrustation ; or its whilom 

 presence has been recognized by the discovery of the gemmules that 

 had been left after nearly all its skeleton spicules had been washed 

 away. 



Heteromeyenia argyrosperma, var. tenuis, Potts. (PI. XI, fig. ii.) 



This variety of H. argyrosperma diflfers from the typical species 

 chiefly in the extreme slenderness of all its parts. 



Meas. Skeleton spicules 0-0087 by 0-0002 inches. Long birot- 

 ulates 0-00438 by 0-00015 inches. Diameter of rotules or hooks 

 0-0006 inches. Length of short birotulate 0-00297 inches. Diam- 

 eter of its rotules 0-0005 inches. 



Log. Harvey's Lake near Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, and 

 Lake Hopatcong, New Jersey.^ 



1 It will be noticed that the slender forms of well known sponges which have, 

 in this work, been uniformily designated as varieties, have been generally collected 

 in waters at high allitudes, S. lacHstris, v. montana at 2500 feet, (PI. VIII, fig. vi); 

 S,fragtlis, v. minuta, 600 ft.; v. minutissima (PI- VIII, fig. ii.) and v, irregularis 

 1200 feet; H. nrgyrosperma, v. teiiiiis, 1200 ft , (PI. XI, fig. ii); zxiATueblla penn- 

 sylvanica, v. minima, at 1800 feet above sea level. On the other hand //. ryderi. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



Harvey's Lake, Pennsylvania, and Lake Hopatcong in Northern 

 New Jersey, in nearly the same latitude, and with a common alti- 

 tude of about 1200 feet, may be classed as mountain lakes, lying in 

 the gorges between high hills, wooded or cultivated, and with no 

 outlook in any direction. Of latter years, both have been enlarged 

 and increased in depth by the construction of gates at their outlets. 

 By this means the water has been raised and controlled, in the 

 former, for milling purposes ; in the latter, to use it as a feeder to 

 the Morris Canal. In Lake Hopatcong the water thus "backed 

 up" has found its way through cross-gorges into parallel valleys, 

 originally heavily wooded, and the denuded stems and shorter stumps,^ 

 standing up through the glittering water or resting in the shallows, 

 suggest a prosaic if not a classical appropriateness, in the local name 

 of one of them,-the "River Styx." 



In this locality and in the so-called "Cedar Swamp," another deep 

 bay in this nine-mile-long pond, I found my principal sport as a 

 collector. The season (the last of October,) was perhaps rather 

 late for the species represented ; but on nearly every floating log or 

 fallen tree top, or loosened stump, could be found when they were 

 turned over, shining patches of white or yellowish gemmules, left in 

 groups upon the smooth sui'face or partly hidden in little crevices 

 of bark or root. No conspicuous sponge masses, few even of the 

 filmy layers of skeleton spicules; only these scattering and loosely 

 placed aggregations. Great numbers of them were chipped ofl" and 

 dried for more particular examination in the laboratory. 



This kind of collecting has been found far more productive of 

 interesting species than where one limits himself to the larger, green 

 sponges. Though not a single massive sponge had been discovered, 

 representatives Avere collected of three forms of S. Jragilis, two of 

 H. argyrosperma, one of H. repens, besides many specimens of Tu- 

 hella pennsylvmiica. 



V. baleni, (PI. XI, fig. iv.) came from near Plaiiifield, New Jersey and from Flor- 

 ida, in both, presumably, at a low level ; and one of the most robust forms of 

 S. lacustris seen in this country, was gathered from an "Ice Lake" in the Sierra 

 Nevada Mts. at an altitude of 7000 feet. (PI. VII, fig. i.) 



If a reason be sought to account for the prevailing rule in these cases, the 

 plausible suggestion may of course be made, that the water of lakes upon dividing 

 ridges or high table lands may be deficient in the silicious constituent that would 

 be acquired later, from violent contact with rocks in the bed of mountain .streams, 

 etc.; but a much longer series of observations and exact chemical analysis will 

 be needed to make this oljseivation any more than a guess. 




242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1887. 



{4) Heteromeyenia longistylis, Mills. Proc. Am. Soc. of Mieroscopists 1884 p. 16. 



Sponge unknown. 



Gemmulse large, spherical ; crust thick. 



Skeleton spicules slender, cylindrical to sub-fusiform; gradually 

 pointed, very sparsely microspined. 



Dermal spicules fusiform, entirely spiued ; spines near the mid- 

 dle long, cylindrical ; terminations rounded. 



Shafts of the larger class of birotulates relatively very long, cy- 

 lindrical, often bent, generally smooth. Hooks of rotulse i-ecurved 

 and incurved. 



Rotules of the shorter class of birotulates flatter ; shafts cylindri- 

 cal, spinous ; spines short, conical. 



Meas. Skeleton spicules O'OlOo by 0"00025 inches. Length of 

 -dermal spicules 0-0023 inches. Long birotulates 0*0049 by 0*00015 

 inches. Diameter of disk 0'0009 inches. Length of short birot- 

 ulate 0"0032 inches. Diameter of its disk 0*0008 inches. 



Loe. Lehigh River, Bethlehem, Pa.(?) Collected by Dr. WoUe. 



I had been inclined to consider the above merely a variety of 

 H. argyrosperma, but the mention of dermal s^Dicules in my descrip- 

 tion, prepared several years ago from a very minute fragment, has 

 induced me to give it the benefit of the doubt, until the sponge 

 itself can be again collected. 



(3) Heteromeyenia ryderi, Potts. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1882, p. 13. 

 (PI. XI, fig. iv, T and vi.) 



Sponge light green, massive, often hemispherical ; texture loose » 

 surface more or less lobed. 



Gemmulse numerous, spherical, relatively smaller than in H. argy- 

 rosperma ; crust thick ; foramina inconspicuous, short, tubular. 



Skeleton spicules non-fasciculate, fusiform, gradually pointed, 

 entirely spined, except at the extremities ; spines broadly conical, 

 often projected forward, towards the terminations of the spicules. 

 (PI. XI, figs, iv to vi, a,a, etc.) 



Dermal spicules wanting. 



Long birotulates variable in relative numbers, shafts cylindrical, 

 spined ; spines equal in length with the rays of the rotulse ; hooked 

 or curved from the extremities ; rotulse of three to six short, re- 

 curved hooks ; sometimes umbonate or with a spinous termination. 

 (Ibid, b.b, etc.) 



Short birotulates with cylindrical shafts rapidly enlarging under 

 the rotules, bearing one or more perpendicular spines. Diameter 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



of rotules nearly as great as the length of the shaft ; margins laciu- 

 ulate or crenulate, outer surfaces flat, symmetrical, often micro- 

 spined ; terminations rounded. (PI. XI, fig. v, c,d, etc.) 



3Ieas. Skeleton spicules 0*0127 by 0"0006 inches. Long birot- 

 ulates 0-0023 by 0-00025 inches. Diameter of disk 0-0006 inches. 

 Length of short birotulates 0-0012 inches ; diameter of its disk 

 0-0009 inches. 



Hab. Timbers, stones, etc., in shallow flowing water. 



Log. Found from Florida to Nova Scotia, and from the Atlan- 

 tic coast to Iowa, United States. 



a. ryderi alone, of this genus, has been found large enough to at- 

 tract the attention of a casual observer ; inclining to form upon 

 plane surfaces, hemispherical or dome-shaped masses several inches 

 in diameter. In these and other cases they are made up of a con- 

 geries of lobes or rounded prominences. It was first found in the 

 year 1881, rather plentifully, within a limited space upon the rocky 

 bottom of Indian Run, a very small stream in the neighborhood of 

 Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The following year it was missing, 

 and I have never since found it in that stream. It has been gath- 

 ered or received from at least nine American States mostly along 

 the Atlantic coast from Nova Scotia to Florida, but including one 

 remittance from the western state of Iowa. The finest specimen 

 collected was from the timber side of the fore-bay of E. Doughty's 

 mill, Absecum, New Jersey. This was about three inches in diam- 

 eter and more than two inches in thickness.^ 



H. ryderi has furnished me with my latest and most valuable les- 

 son in group classification. Until quite recently the sjoecies stood 

 compact, or with only the single suggested variety, If. baleni, where 

 the spicular features were similar, though more slender, and the 

 general form of the sponge had not been particularly observed. 



1 The circumstance above mentioned as tg the failure to find this species at 

 the same place during successive seasons, is a peculiarity of habit only too famil- 

 iar to S])onge collectors. However reliable their recurrence may be in /a/ies or 

 ponds, in our smaller streams the fact that a species was found at a given locality 

 during one season, furnishes no guarantee for its reappearance there during the 

 next. When any sponge is found, the probabilities are rather in favor of its belong- 

 ing to a different species. In the present case, a year or two later, I found, a few 

 yards further down the stream, not iy. ryderihxsX Tubella pennsylvanica. From 

 my favorite locality for Carterius latitenta, a friend, who undertook to bring me a 

 fresh specimen, two or three years after its first discovery, sent me a fine form of 

 S. lacustris ; and so they go, constantly moving down stream; one species suc- 

 ceeding another as they travel on to the great sea and there — 




244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887- 



Last autiiiun I collected in Gilder Pond, Berkshire Co. Massa- 

 chusetts, already described, a sponge as different in its general ap- 

 pearance from the typical form of H. ryderi, as can well be imag- 

 ined, but with similar birotulate spicules ; and their very dissimilar- 

 ity in external form led me to think of H. pidovensis, in which the 

 gemmule spicules are also like those of H. ryderi. It was not at all 

 willingly, but rather in spite of an exceedingly rebellious disinclina- 

 tion, that I came at last to the conclusion that the others had no 

 sufficient claim to specific distinction, as S. ryderi typified and in- 

 cluded them all. 



The strongest member of this species is the variety S. jyictoveiisis, 

 next to be described. (PI. XI, fig. vi.) I have only seen rather 

 minute specimens of it, but believe it to be both massive and com- 

 pact, and nearly smooth in surface and outline. A form found in 

 the Lehigh River at White Haven, comes next, also with strongly 

 spinous skeleton spiculie and very robust birotulates. Then comes 

 the typical form from Philadelphia, described above as externally . 

 hemispherical, but composed of compacted lobes. In the next 

 V. tvakhii, from Gilder Pond, I imagine the lobes have separated 

 and spread out into the slender, subdividing branches mentioned in 

 the description of that variety. The series probably terminates with* 

 the delicate features of v. haleni (PI. XI, fig. iv,) which will most 

 likely be found also branching. 



Heteromeyenia ryderi, v. pictovensis, Potts. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 

 1885, p, 28. (PI. XI, fij<. vi.) 



Sponge light green, even when dry ; massive, encrusting. Text- 

 ure very compact ; spicules non-fasciculated, persistent. Surface 

 mostly smooth. 



Gemmules as discovered very scarce, spherical; crust thick. 



Skeleton spicules cylindrical, short, robust, rounded or abruptly 

 terminated, entirely spined ; spines conical at the middle of the 

 spicule, elsewhere generally curving forward toward each extremity. 

 Rounded terminations of spicules covered with short spines, though 

 frequently a single large spine or acute termination is seen at one 

 or both ends. (PI. XI, fig. vi, a.b.c.) 



Dermal spicules absent or undiscovered. 



Birotulates of the longer class surrounding the gemmules rather 

 numerous, one third of their own length longer than the others; 

 shafts mostly smooth, cons]Dicuously fusiform, frequently with one 




1887.] NATURAL SCIKNCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



or more long spines near the middle. Rotules consisting of three 

 to six irregularly placed rays, recurved at their extremities. 

 (Ibid. d,d,d-) 



Birotulates of the shorter class abundant and comjiactly arranged 

 around the gemmule ; shafts mostly smooth, though sometimes bear- 

 ing a single spine; irregularly cylindrical but rapidly thickening to 

 support the rotules, which are large, umbonate, nearly flat, and 

 finely lacinulate at their margins ; occasionally microspined. (Ibid, 

 e, e, e.) 



Meas. Skeleton spicules 0'0075 by 0"0007o inches. Length of 

 long birotulates 0'0021, of short birotulates 0'0012 inches. Diameter 

 of disk of latter 0-0009 inches. 



Hah. On submerged wood, etc. 



Loc. Collected by A. H. MacKay Esq. of Pictou, Nova Scotia, 

 from several lakes upon the water-shed of that region ; and later, 

 from similar situations in Newfoundland. 



The close general agreement of the above description, (prepared 

 while the writer Avas under the conviction that the sponge was a 

 distinct species) with that just given of the typical H. ryderi, except 

 as regards the robustness and spinous character of their skeleton 

 spiculse, (features that we have already seen to be extremely varia- 

 ble) will, I think, help to explain, perhaps to justify my present 

 act in reducing it to the position of a variety of the latter. That 

 there are obvious differences between them is imquestionable ; that 

 these differences are specific, I do not noiv believe. 



This beautiful sponge was first discovered by Mr. A. H. MacKay 

 during the summer of 1884, when its novelty, as indicated by its 

 unusually robust, entirely sj^ined skeleton spicules, was easily imag- 

 ined; but the absence of gemmules at that time, precluded the 

 determination of its generic relations, and it continued for a while 

 unnamed. During the last week in December of the same year, a 

 further search was rewarded by the finding of other "specimens 

 upon sticks pulled up through a break made in the ice," and among 

 these a few and but a few gemmules were discovered. These sufficed 

 to place it clearly within the genus Heteromeyenia, with the final 

 designation as indicated above. 



The skeleton spicules of this variety are more entirely and con- 

 spicuously spined than those of any other known North American 

 sponge. In some forms of Meyenia fluviatilis they are noticeably 

 spiniferous, though the terminations are generally naked; in Tubella 




246 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



pennsijlvanica they are entirely spined. The spicules of Spongilla 

 igloviformis are marked with large, prickle-like spines ; and amongst 

 material collected at Deep Creek, Virginia, and also from 

 sedimentary deposits in Nova Scotia, still another and more coarsely 

 spined spicule has been collected, whose affiliations have not, 

 as yet, been ascertained. H. v. pictovensis difiers from all these 

 in its dense spination and in the relatively great thickness and the 

 rounded ends of its spicules. 



Attention is asked for a moment to one fact stated by Mr. 

 MacKay in his letter transmitting the last above specimens. They 

 were gathered in midwinter from under the ice and were as I 

 can testify, of a vivid green color and from his description were evi- 

 dently still growing. The scarcity of gemmules may remind us of a 

 similar condition in the case of Spongilla aspinosa, which has also been 

 seen to be evergreen ; and of the inference then suggested that they 

 may not exist because they are not needed. 



The form alluded to as having been found at White Haven has 

 never been named, and does not need varietal designation. Its 

 general spiculation is merely more robust than that of H. ryderi 

 in a smaller degree than that in which the spicules of v. baleni seem 

 less so. Intermediately must be placed, 



Heteromeyenia ryderi, v. walshii, n. v. 



Sponge light green ; primarily sessile but soon sending out slen- 

 der, subdividing branches, palmate, with rounded terminations; 

 giving them a stag-horn-like appearance. Fronds made up of many 

 slender, nearly parallel lines of slightly fasciculated spicules, the 

 net work being completed by crossing lines of single or nearly 

 solitary spicules. 



Gemmules infrequent, spherical ; crust rather slight. 



Skeleton spicules slender, cylindrical, somewhat curved, gradually 

 or more abruptly pointed, sparsely microspined. 



Long birotulates with typical rotules of hooked rays; shafts inflated 

 at the middle, with one to five long spines. 



Kotules of short birotulates relatively large, flat ; margins lacin- 

 ulate; shafts smooth, thickening under the rotules. 



Log. Gilder Pond, Massachusetts. 



During that solitary but most enjoyable morning spent upon 

 Gilder Pond, as already described in my sketch of M. everetti, 

 I discovered, early in my explorations, that there were beneath my 

 boat two forms of branching sponges. They were not very dissimilar 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 247 



in size, that is, in the slenderness of their fronds ; but in the one case 

 these terminated abruptly in sharp points, — in the other they were 

 rounded as above described, and reminded me of the broadly pal- 

 mate antlers of a stag. On reaching my microscope their generic 

 difference was quickly discovered. 



The name I have attached to this variety is in acknowledgement 

 of the exceptional courtesy shown and the assistance given me by 

 Mr. T. L. Walsh, the owner of the pond and of the surrounding 

 land upon the mountain side. 



Heteromeyenia ryderi, v. baleni. (PI. XI, fig. iv.) 



Meas. Skeleton spicules 0'0072 by 0'00015 inches. Long birotu- 

 lates 0-00185 by 0-000075 inches. Diameter of disk O'OOOS inches. 

 Length of short birotulates 0-0012 inches. Diameter of its disk 

 0-0006 inches. 



Loc. Plainfield, New Jei'sey; Florida etc. 



This variety bears the same relation to its typical species that v. 

 tenuis does to S. argyrosperma. All classes of spicules are very 

 slender ; but Avith this exception the associated forms resemble those 

 of a. ryderi. It is dedicated to my friend Mr. A. D. Balen, who 

 first collected it near Plainfield, New Jersey ; but it has since been 

 found in several localities, including the state of Florida where it 

 was collected by Mr. Mills. 



It has been remarked in my comments upon Spongilla novce terrce 

 that intermediate forms connecting the genera distinguished by 

 birotulate spiculse, were frequent. One instance of this is found in 

 the species before us. The genus Heteromeyenia is only distinguished 

 from Meyenia by the presence of two dissimilar classes of birotulates. 

 The numbers of those of the larger class are sometimes so reduced 

 as to be with some difficulty detected ; as in a form of H. ryderi sent 

 me by Prof. Osborne from Ames, Iowa. In Meyenia millsii, from 

 Florida, we have, what is essentially the same sponge, with this class 

 entirely eliminated : as, however, there is left but one class, we 

 can do no other than place that species among the Meyenioe. 



Since preparing the above, I have received two contributions of 

 sponges from Mr. Fred. Mather, the intelligent and energetic super- 

 intendent of a hatching establishment at Cold Spring Harbor, Long 

 Island, N. Y., under the care of the U. S. Fish Commission. Both 

 of these have proved to be masses of H. ryderi. He reports them as 

 growing plentifully throughout the winter, in their tanks and ponds, 

 with the temperature frequently at 32° F. and below. The species 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



therefore, in this region, as well as in Nova Scotia and New Found- 

 land must be considered as at least occasionally jDerennial. 

 (IV.) Gen. TUBELLA, Carter. 



Gen. char. Skeleton sijiculte as in the foregoing genera, but some- 

 times hemispherically rounded at the extremities. Gemmulte glob- 

 ular or elliptical; apertures lateral or terminal. Granular crust 

 charged with trumpet-shaped imequibirotulate spicules, of which the 

 larger rotule rests upon the chitinous coat ; the size of the outer 

 rotule smaller, but bearing a variable relation to that of the former. 

 The margins of the larger rotules generally entire. 



The genus Tuhella was created by H. J. Carter in 1881 with four 

 species, all from the River Amazon, in South America; one of 

 them was* of his own naming; the remaining three having been prev- 

 iously described (as Spongillas), by Dr. Bowerbank, The new 

 genus was needed to separate those sponges having markedly un- 

 equal birotulates, from the typical forms of Meyenia. The discovery 

 in Pennsylvania during the same year, of a fifth species and after- 

 ward of its wide distribution throughout the United States, tends to 

 approve this necessity. Ann. and Mag. 1881, p. 96. (PI. VI, fig. ii.) 



KEY TO THE SPECIES OF THE GENUS TUBELLA. 



1. Insequibirotulate or trumpet-shaped spicules of two forms, ujaon 

 separate gemmules. The shafts of one form stouter and bear- 

 ing a larger distal rotule than that of the other. Flesh spicules 

 wanting. T. paulula. 



2. Shafts of trumpet-shaped spicules long, nearly cylindrical, 

 spiniferovis. Flesh spicules entirely spined. T. S'pinata. 



S. Sponge structure rigid; terminations of skeleton spicules rounded. 

 Gemmules surrounded by a capsule of spined spicules, much 

 smaller than those of the skeleton. Shaft of trumpet-shaped 

 spicules short, with a ring-like inflation near the larger rotule. 



T. reticulata. 



4. Birotulates in two zones, i. e. trumpet-shaped next the chitinous 

 coat, surrounded by a zone of short, robust spicules with equal 

 rotules of eight recurved teeth or rays. T. recurvata. 



5. Skeleton spicules spiniferous. No dermal spicules. Rotules of 

 trumpet-shaped spicules flat or twisted ; margins generally en- 

 tire ; shafts smooth. (PI. VI, fig. ii.) T. jjewisylvanica. 



(1) Tubella paulula, Carter. Ann. and Mag. 1881, p. 96. 



Spongilla paulula, Bowerbank. Proc. Zool. Soc. etc., 1863, -p. 453. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 249 



Sponge "thin, encrusting. Surface even. Structure fragile, 

 crumbling. Color now brown. Skeleton spicule curved, fusiform, 

 abruptly sharp-pointed, spiniferous or smooth. Statoblast globular; 

 aperture sunken, infundibular ; crust composed of granular micro- 

 cell structure, charged with two kinds of iniequibirotulates, one 

 form of which is much stouter than the other, and consists of a 

 straight shaft passing by trumpet-like expansion into the large 

 disk, which often has radiating -lines, and abruptly terminating in 

 the other, which is only one fourth the diameter of the former ; tlie 

 other form similarly constucted, but more delicate, Avith the shaft 

 inflated towards the large disk, and the smaller one much less in 

 proportion than in the larger form ; the forms not mixed but con- 

 fined to their statoblasts respectively ; arranged perpendicularly, 

 with the large disk resting on the chitinous coat, and the smaller 

 one forming part of the surface of the statoblast." Carter. 



Loc. River Amazon. 



(3) Tubella spinata, Carter. Ann. and Mag. 1881, p. 96. 



Sponge "thin, coating, spreading. Structure fragile, crumbling. 

 Color light brown. Skeleton spicule curved, fusiform, gradually 

 sharp-pointed, smooth or spiniferous. Flesh spicule minute, curved, 

 usiform, thin, gradually sharp-pointed, covered with perpendicular 

 spines, which are longest about the centre. Statoblast elliptical, 

 flask-shaped ; aperture terminal ; crust thick, composed of granular 

 microcell-substance charged with insequibirotulate spicules consist- 

 ing of a straight shaft inflated near the small end, and passing by a 

 trumpet-like expansion into the large disk. Sparsely spined ; disk 

 circular, smooth, with an even margin, small end consisting of a 

 circular convex head, regularly denticulated on the margin with 

 eight or more conical processes, which are slightly inclined towards 

 the shaft ; arranged perpendicularly, so that the disk rests on the 

 chitinous coat and the head forms part of the surface of the stato- 

 blast." Carter. 



Loc. River Amazon. 



(3) Tubella reticulata, Carter. Ann. and Mag. 1881, p. 97. 



Spongilla reticulata, Bowerbank. Proc. Zool. Soc. etc. 1863, p. 

 455. 



Sponge "elliptical, or fusiform when growing round the immersed 

 small branches of trees. Structure extremely rigid, reticulate, ter- 

 minating in thorn-like processes on the surface. Color light sea- 

 green when growing in clear water. Skeleton spicules curved or 

 17 




250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



bent, cylindrical or subfusiform, rounded at the ends, absolutelj 

 smooth or sparsely spiniferous, becoming more so towards the stato- 

 blasts where they are not more than half the size, thickly spined, 

 and in this shape form a distinct capsular layer around each of 

 those organs. Statoblast elliptical, ovoid ; aperture terminal ; crust 

 composed of granular microcell-substance, charged with insequibi- 

 rotulate spicules consisting of a straight shaft passing by trumpet- 

 like expansion into the large disk, with two or more spines about 

 the centre, and furnished with a ring-like inflation towards the 

 disk; disk circular, smooth, with even margin, which is somewhat 

 recurved, small end consisting of a circular umbonate head, regu- 

 larly denticulated on the margin, with 6-8 conical processes, which 

 are slightly inclined inwards or towards the shaft ; arranged perpen- 

 dicularly, so that the disk rests on the chitinous coat, and the head 

 or small end forms part of the surface of the statoblast." Carter. 



Loc. River Amazon. 

 (4) Tubella recurvata, Carter. Ann. and Mag. 1881, p. 98. 



SpongUla recurvata, Bowerbank. Proc. Zool. Soc. etc. 1863, p. 

 456. 



Sponge "sessile, coating. Surface even. Structure fragile, crumb- 

 ling. Color brownish. Skeleton spicules curved, fusiform, abruptly 

 sharp-pointed, smooth or spiniferous. Statoblast globular ; aperture 

 infundibular; crust thick, composed of granular microcell-sub- 

 stance charged with insequibirotulate spicules, consisting of a deli- 

 cate, straight, smooth shaft j)assing by trumpet-like expansion into 

 the large disk, which is circular, smooth, saucer-shaped, inverted, 

 with even margin, curved towards the shaft, and abruptly termina- 

 ting in the other, which is only one eighth of the diameter of the 

 disk, arranged perpendicularly with the large disk resting on the 

 chitinous coat, and the small one somewhat within the surface of the 

 crust ; surrounded by a capsule of short thick spicules, consisting of 

 a straight, smooth shaft, slightly inflated in the centre, and termina- 

 ted at each end by an equal-sized head, which is prominently um- 

 bonate, with circular margin regularly divided into eight conical 

 teeth slightly incurved, arranged perpendicularly around the stato- 

 blast, with one end free and the other adherent to the surface of 

 the crust." Carter. 



Loc. River Amazon ; also Beni River, East Bolivia. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 251 



(6) Tubella pennsylvanica, Potts. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1882, p. 14. (PI. 

 VI, fig. ii, PI. XII, figs, i, ii, iii.) 



Sponge gray ; or, when growing in the light, green ; minute, 

 incrusting ; surface of mature specimens often found covered with 

 parallel skeleton spicules, not yet arranged to form cell-like inter- 

 spaces. 



Gemmules very numerous, small ; granular crust thin or thick; 

 sometimes covering to a considerable depth, the outer extremities 

 of the rotules, which in other cases project beyond it. (PI, VI. 

 fig. ii.) 



Skeleton spicules extremely variable as to length and curvature; 

 sub-fusiform, acuminate or rounded ; entirely spined ; spines large, 

 conical ; terminations mostly rounded. (PI. XII, fig. i, ii and iii, 

 a.a.a.) 



Dermal spicules wanting. 



Birotulate spicules surrounding the gemmules numerous, consisting 

 of a large rotule next the chitinous coat; whilst the distal rotule 

 varies in diameter from that of the connecting shaft to near equality 

 with the other. Margin of large rotule generally entire ; surface 

 flat and table-like or irregularly exflected ; smaller rotule obscurely 

 angular or occasionally notched. Shafts widening toward the larger 

 rotule, variable in length and thickness; always smooth, (ibid b. c. 

 d. etc.) 



Meas. Skeleton spicules 0'0066 by 0*0003 inches. Insequibiro- 

 tulates 0-00035 by O'OOOl inches. Diameter of large rotule 0.0007 

 inches; do, of smaller rotule 0"00015 inches. 



Hab. On stones and timbers in shallow water. 



Loc. Lehigh River and tributaries ; also generally throughout 

 the Eastern United States. 



The first specimens of T. pennsylvanica were found in Novem- 

 ber 1881, among a miscellaneous collection of sponges from Lehigh 

 Gap,where they had grown, at an altitude of about 600 ft. above sea 

 level. They were minute, barely one fourth inch in diameter ; but were 

 welcomed with enthusiasm as the first representatives of the genus that 

 had been discovered in North America or, in fact, anywhere except in 

 the equatorial "giant of rivers." The year following, the species was 

 found growing at White Haven, on the Lehigh River, Pennsylvania, 

 (1000 ft. above the sea); in Lake Hopatcong, New Jersey, (alt. 1200 

 ft.); and was received from friends in several other parts of the coun- 

 try. My records show its receipt from at least eighteen different 




252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



localities within eleven separate states, including the last arrival from 

 Newfoundland. This specimen was peculiar, in so far as the larger 

 rotules deviate from the ordinary rule of entire margins and are 

 found divided into irregular rays or rounded segments. The smaller 

 rotules are clearly rayed, and very irregular in size. 



Generally speaking, the specimens gathered were filmy, indicating 

 but a single years growth. At White Haven however, the frag- 

 ments brought up by my "scraper net" from piling standing in 

 deejD water above the dam were, in some cases, a quarter inch or 

 more in thickness ; suggesting a serial growth somewhat like that of 

 Meyenia leidyi. 



The first records of this discovery describe the outer rotules as 

 one fifth the diameter of the inner but varying in a few instances 

 from this proportion to near equality. It required the experience 

 of several years to convince me that, as, in specimens from different 

 localities the prevailing proportions of the rotules differed in like man- 

 ner, their relative sizes were no guides as to species. As a result of 

 this teaching some names, given to supposed new species, must be 

 ignored ; including T. fanshaivei, intended to honor a gentleman to 

 whose courtesy I am inde])ted for the opportunity of making many of 

 these explorations ; and T. mtermedia, supposed at one time to be a 

 connecting link, but now known to be the species itself, in one of its 

 multiform conditions. 



Far up among the Pennsylvania mountains, fully 1800 feet above 

 the sea, is Bear Lake, one of the sources of the Lehigh- River. 

 During a hurried hour or less spent upon it, one autumn day in 

 1883, we found, as its most characteristic feature, the rocks and 

 rounded bouldere in shallow water covered with a thin, light green 

 sponge containing some gemmules. Repeated examinations, made 

 after reaching home, showed it to be a Tuhella of very delicate and 

 fragile character as to its spicules, and exhibiting some pecul- 

 iarities that I am not as yet prepared to describe. I have marked it 



Tubella pennsylvanica, v. minima, Potts. 



Sponge light green, encrusting, thin ; texture loose and incoherent, 

 sarcode having a granular appearance not fiilly understood. 



Gemmules few ; chitinous coat and granular crust both thin ; 

 the latter embedding a relatively very small number of insequibiro- 

 tulates. 



Skeleton spicules slender, acuminate or somewhat rounded, 

 entirely spined ; spines perpendicular, cylindrical ; terminations 

 rounded. 




1887.] NATURAL SCTEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 253 



Trumpet-shaped spicules with very slender, smooth, cylindrical, 

 shafts, (in prepared specimens very generally broken) ; proximal 

 rotules, large, fiat or contorted; margins entire or more or less rayed ; 

 distal rotules hardly larger than the diameter of the shaft, too minute 

 to detect any subdivisions. 



After examining some slides of this variety I incidently turned to 

 others of a form collected as an incrustation from some large water 

 pipes, that had conveyed water from the Schuylkill River. The 

 contra.?t was startling. The skeleton spicules here were short, 

 robust and generally rounded ; the birotulates also were very short, say 

 one half the length of those last described; shafts thick and widening 

 into each rotule. Rotulse nearly equal in size, margins entire and 

 both of them upturned, saucer-like ; very closely resembling those 

 of M. leidyi. 



This Avas the major term of the series, and was reached after 

 passing those from the 1800, the 1200, 1000 and 600 ft. altitudes; 

 pausing first at 40 or 50 ft. above tide water, near Bristol, Pennsyl- 

 vania, where, upon a mass of furnace slag, was found T. fanshawei, 

 whose rotules bore the relation to each other of 5 to 6 or 6 to 7; 

 then, in Indian Run, and still later, in tide water in the Schuylkill 

 River below the dam, still greater robustness was reached and the 

 rotulse, found as above, were as nearly equal as those of 31. leidyi. 



The series was now complete from the last described form, back 

 to that in which the outer rotule, and even the shaft itself, had been 

 nearly eliminated ; while the general features of the sponge, except- 

 ing as to robustness, remained the same. The changes, it will be 

 observed, followed closely the lines of increasing altitude; their 

 catise must be left for later determination. 



The fact mentioned in the early part of my technical description, 

 that specimens of this species are often seen, having their dermal 

 surfaces covered with parallel-lying skeleton spicules, is well worthy 

 of notice. A portion at least, of the skeleton spicules in all sponges 

 seem to have their origin in this dermal film. If, under a high 

 magnifying power, we watch the surface of a sponge that has ger- 

 minated and is growing in a stage tank or other convenient receptacle, 

 we will see these sjiicules carried about in the amoeboid wanderings 

 of the dermal cells, the end of each multiplying the motion and 

 swaying like the gnomon of a time piece. Under these conditions 

 they are probably prepared, and as the result of these motions they 

 are placed to form the connecting links between the main lines of 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



fasciculated spicules, that are themselves formed in the deeper parts 

 of the sponge. In T. pennsylvanica, the spicules are short and 

 slightly, if at all, fasciculated ; and, as the crossing lines are more 

 numerous, they require a greater proportion of these forms of dermal 

 origin. 



(V.) Gen. PARMTJLA, Carter. Ann. and Mag. 1881. p. 98. 



Gen. char. Skeleton spicules nearly as in Tuhella; generally 

 robust, their ends rounded or abruptly terminated. Dermal spicules 

 sometimes present. Gemmules surrounded by a granular or cellular 

 crust of considerable thickness, charged with or embedding an ar- 

 mature of shield-shaped (parmuliform) spicules. 



In the species of this genus, all from the River Amazon, South 

 America, or from some of its tributaries, a further modification of 

 the birotulate form of gemmule spicules may be observed. The 

 outer rotule, that, in the last 2:)revious genus had become much 

 inferior to the other, has now disappeared, as well as the larger 

 portion of the shaft, leaving only the proximal rotule with an acu- 

 minate umbo, as a "scutulate" or "parmuliform" spicule. 



Our first knowledge of the sponges pertaining to this genus, as 

 well as of three of the Tubellas, already described, is derived from 

 specimens collected by Mr. H. W. Bates during his sojourn upon 

 the Amazon and its branches, from the year 1848 to 1859. His 

 specimens appear to have been generally gathered in the neighbor- 

 hood of Villa Nova, probably in a side channel of the main river; 

 ("Dark Ygapos in virgin forest, margins of Amazons, Villa Nova.") 

 On his return to England they were sent to Dr. Bowerbank, Avhose 

 descriptions of them form the most interesting and valuable portions 

 of his monograph. 



In the far too meagre narrative that Mr. Bates has given us of 

 his journey ings, ("The Naturalist on the River Amazons," London, 

 John Murray, 1873.) we are informed that the changes of level in 

 this portion of the river between the wet and dry seasons amount 

 to 25 or even 35 feet ; that the floods last from three to four months; 

 and when the water retires "the trunks and lower branches of the 

 trees are coated with dried slime, and disfigured by rounded masses 

 of freshwater sponges, whose long horny spiculse and dingy colors 

 give them the appearance of hedge hogs." 



It is rather remarkable that later travellers in this district do 

 not seem to have had their curiosity excited by the singular appear- 

 ance of these encrusting or suspended masses, so far as to induce 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255 



them to collect specimens and bring them to the knowledge of 

 specialists in this branch of science. Few if any, at least, are reported 

 to have been seen or described, until now that a single specimen 

 has fallen into my hands. It was collected during a transcontinental 

 journey from the west coast of South America, through Bolivia 

 and down the Beni, Madeira and Amazon Rivers, undertaken by 

 Dr. H. H. Rusby, travelling in the interest of the enterprising drug 

 firm of Parke, Davis & Co. of New York. 



I failed to communicate with Dr. Rusby, as I had greatly desired, 

 before he left the western side of the continent, to request his par- 

 ticular attention to these sponges; and the specimen referred to was 

 one that only incidentally attracted his notice as he floated down 

 the rivers. It was seen not in the water however, but hanging high 

 and dry above it. When I had confirmed his supposition that it 

 was a fresh water sjDonge, a species of Parmula, he wrote, — "It exists 

 abundantly along the River Ibon a small branch of the Beni. 

 When the river overflows, the sponge is deposited in the bushes. 

 It is exactly spherical and of a size varying from that of a walnut 

 to one foot in diameter. The spicules are poisonous when penetrating 

 the flesh, producing a painful swelling that lasts for several days. 

 It is said at times to produce lockjaw.^ The overflow is annual and 

 lasts only a few weeks. The sponge appears to vary in other local- 

 ities in which I saw it. Beside this there are other quite different 

 species that are deposited at the same time. One is a very dirty 

 thing, like a mass of mud, or of mud mixed with ashes; of most 

 irregular form, looking like the mud nests made by some species of 

 ants and bees." 



The principal specimen received from Dr. Rusby and probably 

 the only species that he was aware that he collected, nearly resembles 

 Parmula broivnii (S. brownii, Bk.) and will be presently described 



1 1 can say nothing confirmatory of the supposed poisonous character of these 

 spicules, except what is probably already well known, — that when handling dried 

 fresh water sponges of any kind, if the forehead, neck, wrists etc. are accidentally 

 touched by the fingers, to which spicules may have adhered, the latter penetrate the 

 skin and produce very perceptible and irritating welts which remain for several 

 hours. I received recently from Mr. Henry L. Osborn of Lafayette, Indiana, a 

 sample of fine dirt that was complained of by laborers who cultivated a certain 

 field, as producing a greatly irritated condition of the skin in dry weather, when, 

 as dust, it settled upon them. It appeared that a portion of this field had been an 

 old "pond hole," since drained; and I found the dust to abound in the spicules of 

 sponges that had once lived there. 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



as a variety of that species. Upon the slender stem that supports it 

 however, on the two leaves pertaining to that stem and even parasit- 

 ical amongst the spicules of the primary sponge, I discovered several 

 other kinds ; viz. — on the stem, little groups of Meyenia gregaria 

 almost exactly as Dr. Bowerbank has described them; — on the 

 leaves, Spongilla navicella, Carter, whose enigmatical character has 

 been alluded to in the remarks on that species; also a curiously 

 minute new species now described under the name of Meyenia 

 minuta; and upon or within the sponge itself, a few gemmules of 

 Tuhella reeurvata and many of a new species of Parmula, that will 

 be presently noticed : six species belonging to four genera; with dis- 

 tinct but insufficient indications of one or two others. With a 

 productiveness and wdthal a variety so great as this, it may not be 

 cause of wonderment that the writer should feel that were the op- 

 portunity afforded thoroughly to examine a single log, that had 

 floated for a year in one of the side channels of the Amazon, the 

 history and classification of fresh-water sponges in America might 

 have to be in large measure rewritten. 



KEY TO THE SPECIES OF THE GENUS PARMULA. 



1. Sponge rigid, coarsely reticulated. Gemmule surrounded by a 

 tuberculated parenchyma, charged with parmuliform spicules, 

 both upon the chitinous coat and on the outer surface of the 

 tubercules, in which they ai'e associated with a minute spined 

 acerate. P. batesii. 



2. Sponge rigid, coarsely reticulated. Crust of gemmules gran- 

 ular, penetrating the compact spicular capsule by many slender 

 processes. No outer series of parmuliform spicules. 



P. brownii. 



3. Sponge minute ; skeleton spicules not fasciculated. Crust of 

 large granuliferous cells forming irregular rounded lobes whose 

 size and shape are determined by the interspaces of the spicules 

 of a much less compact capsule. No spined acerates. Parmu- 

 liform spicules forming a complete armature upon the chitinous 

 coat. P. rv^byi. 



The descriptions of the older species are copied from H. J. Carter, 

 preferred to those of Dr. Bowerbank as showing the results of a 

 later study of the specimens and one made in the light of the re- 

 vised classification ; yet in the course of my study of the same spe- 

 cies I have been delighted with the minute accuracy of Dr. Bower- 

 bank's observations, particularly those included in his general re- 

 marks. 




1887.] XATUKAI. SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 257 



(1) Parmula batesii, Carter. Ann. and Mag, 1S81, p. 99. 



SpongiUa batesii, Bowerbauk. Proc. Zool. Soc. 1863, p. 459. 



Sponge "more or less globular when growing round the small im- 

 mersed branches of trees one incli or more in thickness. Structure 

 coarsely reticulate, extremely hard and rigid, rising into thorn-like 

 processes on the surface. Color light sea-green. Skeleton spicule 

 curved, fusiform, abruptly sharp-pointed, smooth, forming, when 

 bundled together with the hard transparent sarcode, the rigid struct- 

 ure above mentioned, charged throughout with statoblasts. Stat- 

 oblast large, globular, more or less uniformly tuberculated. Aper- 

 ture infundibular. Crust very thick, composed of granular microcell- 

 j^tructure of a white color, which, growing out through the intersti- 

 ces of the reticular arrangement of skeletou-spicules, reduced in size, 

 which form a capsular covering to the statoblast, gives it the tuber- 

 culated character mentioned. Charged with and surrounded by 

 minute, thin, curved, fusiform, gradually sharp-pointed, spinous acer- 

 ates, irregularly dispei'sed throughout its substance, limited, both 

 inside and outside, by a layer of parmuliform spicules, the former in 

 contact witli the chitinous coat, and the latter on the free surface of 

 the crust, giving it a light brown color. Parmuliform spicule cir- 

 cular, flat, infundibuliform, terminating in a point, like a little 

 round shield turned up at the margin, Avhich is even, arranged both 

 internally and externally in juxtaposition, more or less overlapping 

 each other, with the funnel-shaped })rocess outwards in both instan- 

 ces, so that the surface of the crust is covered with little points." 



Carter. 



Loc. River Amazon. 



(2j Parmula brownii, Carter. Ann. and Mag. 1881, p. 99, 



Spo)igilla broxvnii, Bowerbauk. Proc. Zool. Soc. 183, p. 457. 



Sponge "globular four or more inches in diameter, appended to a 

 small twig rather than embracing it. Structure and color the same 

 as in the foregoing species. Skeleton-spicules the same but dimin- 

 ished to half their size round the statoblasts, to Avhich they afford a 

 distinct capsule. Statoblast globular ; aperture slightly infundib- 

 ular ; crust thin, composed of microscopically minute, spherical cells, 

 irregularly agglomerated together, so as to produce small lacinuli- 

 form processes, which project into the interspaces l)etween the cap- 

 sular spicules ; unaccompanied by the spinous spicule, which is pres- 

 ent in the foregoing species, and without a continuous layer of the 

 parmuliform spicule over the surface, but presenting one in contact 




258 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



with the chitinous coat, where it is overlain by an extremely thin 

 development of the microcellular crust, from which the lacinuliform 

 processes above mentioned are projected." Carter. 

 Loc. British Guiana. 



Farmula brownii, var. tuberculata, n. var. 



Sponge as seen in a dried state, dark brown, massive, spherical ; 

 enveloping the small twig upon which it had grown. Mass ex- 

 tremely rigid, spinous at the superfices ; reticulations many times 

 larger than those of any known North American sponge. (The sar- 

 code and dermis have now almost entirely disappeared.) 



Gemmules numerous ; granular crust rather thin, surrounded by 

 a dense capsule of spicules, the interstices of which it penetrates by 

 numerous fibre-like extensions, which, when seen in small white 

 rounded prominences outside the capsule, give it a peculiar mottled 

 appearance. The gemmules are firmly attached by their capsular 

 spicules to the radiating and connecting lines of skeleton spicules 

 near their outer extremities, and form a continuous zone just within 

 the mass. 



Skeleton spicules smooth, robust, nearly cylindrical, but slightly 

 thicker at the middle ; terminations abruptly pointed. Those of the 

 capsule are similar, but about one half the length of the former and 

 more curved. Many of them are covered with large and beautifully 

 rounded tubercles which are the marked features of this variety. 



Dermal spicules very minute, slender, spined acerates; spines at 

 the middle long, perpendicular, rounded. 



Gemmule spicules parmuliform or shield shaped ; consisting of a 

 subcircular proximal rotule with entire margin, then rapidly taj^ering 

 into a central boss or spine whose length may be equal to one third 

 or one half the diameter of the rotule. These are embedded under 

 the crust resting upon the chitinous coat. 



Hah. Upon trunks and branches of submerged trees. 

 Log. Beni Eiver, East Bolivia, S. A. Collected by Dr. H. H. 

 Rusby. 



The specimen of this variety of P. broiviiii, received from Dr. 

 Rusby is about five inches in diameter, very rigid to the touch, but 

 with meshes relatively very large, so that it was possible to see 

 through the mass nearly at the centre. Its attachment to the 

 twig around which it grew, is, at present, but slight, the twig hav- 

 ing shrunken away from the primary supporting membrane. The 

 radiating lines of skeleton spicules, slender at first, have gradually 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



increased with the growth of the sponge, until, near their ends, their 

 thickness may be that of 30 to 50 skeleton spicules en fascicle. In 

 its living condition, of course, these lines of spicules were clothed 

 with sarcode, and the outer surface, without doubt, was surrounded 

 by a dermis of greater or less density, giving the sponge more the 

 appearance of a solid mass than it has at present. The dermal spic- 

 ules above described were found in some small patches of adherent 

 brown substance, where they were associated Avith the proper skele- 

 ton and capsular spicules of this sj^ecies and are therefore assumed 

 to belong to it though not found in situ. 



The gemmules are here a very interesting feature. Throughout 

 the outer half inch of the mass, they are seen attached to every 

 spicular thread, less like beads than grapes, and appear to have 

 been formed at the close of the season of growth, or just before the 

 retirement of the waters, left the sponge hanging in mid-air. It is 

 of course important to learn, so far as may be possible from the ex- 

 amination of this specimen, whether the whole of the mass was 

 formed during a single period of submergence. If not, I argue 

 that another zone should be found within the first, formed at the 

 termination of a previous season, the germination and colonial 

 growth of whose gemmules would give rise to the "second story" of 

 this structure. This appears to be the case. A S2:)herical space of, 

 say, one and a half inches diameter, at the centre of the mass, is 

 charged with gemmules, while between this and the outer zone of 

 gemmules, a space more than an inch in breadth is almost or entire- 

 ly clear of them. It is supposable, therefore, that this specimen 

 represents a growth of two years, at least of two seasons of sub- 

 mergence, and that the life of the sponge, whether it be in the con- 

 dition of ova or of resting spores merely, has been preserved in the 

 gemmules in despite of, say, eight or ten months of absolute desic- 

 cation.^ 



(3) Parmula rusbyi, n. sp. 



Sponge minute, parasitic upon P. brownii, v. tuherculata ; Spicules 

 non-fasciculate. Mass, as seen, with no definite outline. 



^After writing the above, it occurred to me to attempt the germination of some of 

 the gemmules under consideration, and in one instance, within two days, and in 

 another, in six hours after placing a few in water, an extiusion of germinal 

 matter was observed. In neither case has this yet resulted in a recognizable 

 embryonic sponge, but they sufficiently evidence continued vitality. 




260 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Gemmules numerous, without attachment, resting within open- 

 meshed cajisules, through which the crust expands itself in many 

 large and irregularly rounded lobes, composed of large parenchymal 

 cells filled with granular matter,^ beneath which, in a single layer, 

 the parmuliform spicules rest in a normal fashion upon the chitinous 

 coat. 



Skeleton spicules almost indistinguishable from those of the 

 supporting species ; their principal feature being, that they are loosely 

 aggregated and never occur in bundles of fasciculated lines. 



No dermal spicules seen. 



Parmuliform gemmule spicules rest upon the chitinous coat, and 

 from above them the parenchymal crust easily separates. 



Hah. Only known within the meshes of P. brownii. 



Log. Beni River, etc. S. A. 



The characteristic gemmules of this species (?) were first noticed 

 among the debris of the above named variety. After an earnest 

 efl^oi"t to determine their origin and associations, they were at last 

 traced to certain minute flocculent masses of indefinite shapes resting 

 among the spicular lines of that sponge. The gemmules certainly 

 differ in type from those of either of the before described species, 

 and but one other solution occurs to me, besides that which I have 

 adopted; viz. making it a new species; and this is, the possibility, 

 barely a possibility, that they pertain to the principal sponge, as errant 

 or floating gemmules, for the distribution of the species; as the more 

 common and normal forms of P. brownii are so heavily weighted 

 with capsular and skeleton spicules that when detached, they sink 

 promptly to the depths of the water. 



Pending the solution of this problem, I name it as a provisional 



species after Dr. Rusby, from whom science has received much and 



hopes for more. 



(VI) Gen. CARTERIUS, Potts. 



Carterella, Potts & Mills; Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 1881, p. 150. 



Gen. Char. Skeleton spicules as in Spongilla or Meyenia. Gem- 



mulse globular, the chitinous coat around the foraminal aperture 



^A re examination of several mounted specimens of P. rusbyi, made with a 

 view to affirm or disprove certain suggestions of my friend Carter, has convinced me 

 that the gramilar viatter, above spol<en of in this and probably also in other cases, 

 differs from that condition of the crust that has been called ceihilar in no other 

 respect tiian in the iize of the cells. The large parenchymal cells in this case, 

 therefore, contain within them or are subdivided into, immense numbers of the 

 smaller kind. It should be said that Mr. Carter prefers to consider this a mere 

 variety of /*. brownii. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 261 



expanded and prolonged into a tube of variable length in the differ- 

 ent species, whose termination is either funnel-shaped, disk-like with 

 fibrous margins, or divided into one or several cirrous appendages 

 sometimes of considerable relative length, curling or twisting about 

 each other or surrounding objects. Birotulate spicules akin to those 

 of Meyenia or Hetromeyenia. (PI. VI, figs, iii, iv, v and vi.) 



The name Carterella was first applied to this genus in June 1881, 

 at the suggestion of Mr. (now Prof.) Jno. A. Ryder, in honor of my 

 friend H. J. Carter, Esq. F. R. S. etc. whose scientific life, more 

 than that of any other man had been devoted to the study of the 

 marine and fresh water sponges. During the previous summer two 

 species possessing the featui-es indicated had been discovered by 

 Mr. Mills of Buffalo and myself, and briefly described as of the genus 

 Spongilla, Avhich had not then been divided. The approval of Mr. 

 Mills was courteously given to the use of the name Carterella, which, 

 a few years later was necessarily changed to Carterius, on the dis- 

 covery that the former term had been preoccuj^ied by Zittel in the 

 same association, to designate one of his fossil types. At that time 

 and for several years after, the occurrence of cirrous appendages was 

 altogether unknown among European sponges; but the past few 

 years, which have been so fruitful of American species in foreign 

 parts, have developed one of this t}'pe in Russia, and later, in Bohe- 

 mia, called by its discoverer, Dr. W. Dybowski, Dosilia stepanoivii. 



The tendrils of the three recognized American species, C tubisjjer- 

 ma, C latitenta and C. tenosperma, differ obviously in length and 

 character, and with the Russian species probably present as many 

 types of these organic features, as it will be profitable to designate 

 by specific names. Several intermediate forms have, however, been 

 noticed by Mr. Mills and B. W. Thomas Esq., of Chicago, varying 

 as to the length of the foraminal tubules and the character of the 

 supported tendrils ; the most noticeable case, being the substitution 

 of a flaring funnel-shaped termination of the tubule, for the latter 

 organs. 



KEY TO THE SPECIES OF THE GENUS CARTEKIUS. 



1. Foraminal tubule terminating in a sub-quadrangular disk at 

 whose .angles the chitin divides into processes of variable length. 

 (PI. VI, fig* iv.) C. (Dosilia) stepanowii. 



2. Foraminal tubule very long and slender; tendrils short, irregu- 

 lar, or wavering. (PI. VI, fig. iii.) C. tubisperma. 




262 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



3. Foraminal tubule shorter ; tendrils one or two, enveloping the 

 tubule. (PL VI, fig. v.) C. latitenta. 



4. Foraminal tubule still shorter ; tendrils three to five, very long 

 and slender. (PI. VI, fig. vi.) C. tenosperma. 



(1) Carterius stepanowii, Petr. (PI. VI, fig. iv.) 



Dosilia stepanowii, Dybowski. 1884. See Vejdovsky, "Diagnosis" 

 etc., p. 179. 



In reference to this species, described as above by Prof. Vejdov- 

 sky, I am kindly permitted to make use of the following note by 

 H. J. Carter, F. R. S. etc. in Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 1887, p. 

 212. 



"This fresh-water sponge, which in 1884 was named "Dosilia (?) 

 stepanowii by Dr. W. Dybowski, from a specimen found near Char- 

 kow, in southern Russia (Annals, 1884, Vol. XIV. p. 60), was also 

 found in 1885 by Prof. Fr. Petr, of the University of Prague, in the 

 neighborhood of Deutschbrod, in Bohemia, about 60 miles South 

 East of that city ; and his description of it, which is beautifully il- 

 lustrated, was published in the Czech language at Prague, in 1886. 

 It appears to be the same as that discovered by Mr. H. Mills, of Buflfa- 

 lo. New York, in the Niagara River, in 1880, viz : Carterius tubis- 

 perma (FroG. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 14th. June, 1881, p. 150). 



"Thus this remarkable genus of Spongilla, first brought to notice 

 by Mr. Ed. Potts, of Philadelphia, in a specimen found in a small 

 stream in the late Centennial grounds, Fairmount Park, Philadel- 

 phia (ib. about August, 1880,) which he then named 8. tentasperma, 

 and subsequently S. tenosperma (ib. p. 357), ending with Carterius 

 tenosperma, its present name, has now been found in Southern Rus- 

 sia and mid-Europe, as above stated. 



"In the same communication also Prof. Petr has described and 

 illustrated, under the provisional name of Ephydatia bohemica, 

 another fresh-water sponge, found at Kavasetice, in the same dis- 

 trict, wherein the statoblast presents an incipient condition of the 

 curious development characterizing Carterius, with a spiculation 

 which appears to me, from the illustrations, to be very like that of 

 his C. stepanowii. 



"Lastly, Mr. H. Mills of Bufl^alo, in a letter dated 20th. Nov. 

 1886, sent me a specimen of Carterius from the Niagara River 

 which he considers allied to C. latitenta. Potts, wherein the expand- 

 ed portion of this development presents itself under the form of a 

 cup, with even, circular margin, (that is entirely without cirrous ap- 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 263 



pendages), whose bottom is pierced by the upright tubular part in 

 the usual way ; which "form" appears to prevail generally in the 

 statoblasts of this variety." 



2) Carterius tubisperma, Mills. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. June 1881, p. 150. (PI. 

 VI, fig. iii.) 



Spongilla Mills. Am. Jour. Micros. June 1880, p. 132. 



Sponge brown or green, massive, loose textured ; surface wave- 

 like. 



Gemmulse numerous, spherical, relatively large; crust charged 

 with birotulate spicules. Foraminal apertures prolonged into slen- 

 der, cylindrical tubes, whose greatest length is about equal to the 

 diameter of the gemmule, abruptly flaring at their terminations into 

 several short, inconsequent tendrils of less or greater length. (PI. 

 VI, fig. iii, a.) 



Skeleton spicules rather slender, fasciculate, subfusiform, gradual- 

 ly pointed, sparsely spiniferous; spines small, rounded. (PI. XII, 

 fig. vi, a.a.) 



Dermal spicules long, slender, acerates; generally straight, en- 

 tirely spined ; spines near the middle of the spicules long, cylindri- 

 cal ; terminations rounded. (Ibid, e.e.) 



Gemmule birotulates abundant, irregular in length, (suggesting 

 the genus Hetromeyenia); shafts cylindrical, sometimes with one or 

 more spines ; outer surface of rotules arched ; rays numerous, long ; 

 terminations incurved (ibid, b.b.b.c.) 



3feas. Skeleton spicules 0-0099 by 0-00025 inches. Dermal 

 spicules 0-0038 inches long, Birotulates 0-0019 by 0-00015 inches. 

 Diameter of disk 0-0008 inches. 



Hub. On timbers etc. 



Loc. Niagara River, New York ; Cochituate Reservoir, Boston, 

 Mass. etc. 



The original description by Mr. Mills of his species, given as 

 above in June 1880, without specific name is as follows : — 



"Sponge low, branching (?) green, growing on the upper surface 

 of stones in not very deep water. Skeleton spiculse fusiform-acerate, 

 slightly arcuate, moderately stout, spined ; spines small, sparsely 

 distributed; length 0-01 to 0-012 inches, apices naked. These 

 are mixed with a great many fine delicate spicula (dermals) densely 

 spined to the end ; length 0-009 inches, scattered in groups on each 

 slide of mounted specimens. Ovaria globose; diameter 0'02 inches. 

 Foramen tubed ; tube terminating with five (?) finger-like processes 




264 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1887. 



somewhat resembling tentacles. Spicnla birotulate, long, very deli- 

 cate ; length of axle 0"0015 inches, one or more large spines on each 

 axle. RotiiliB slightly arcuate, equal in size. Length of tube to 

 foramen O'Ol inches. Length of tentacle shajDed processes, one 

 fiftieth to one eightieth of an inch." 



(3) Carterius latitenta, Potts. Proe. Acad. N:it. Sci. Phi]a. July 1881, y. 176. 

 (PI. VI, fig. V,. PI. XII, fig. V.) 



Sponge green, encrusting stones etc.; texture very loose; the 

 longer bands of skeleton spicules rising into abrupt wave-lines at 

 short distances ; masses thicker near the middle. 



Gemmulse numerous, spherical ; crust charged with birotulate 

 spicules ; foramina prolonged into tapering (narrowing) tubules 

 shorter than those of C. tubisperma ; terminations rounded. Cir- 

 rous appendages, at first flat and ribbon-like, enveloping the tu- 

 bule, (or pierced by it), some distance below its termination ; fre- 

 quently but one, rarely more than two of these, which soon become 

 slender and rounded, long and tapering, occasionally subdividing 

 into many short irregular ones. (PI. VI, fig. v. a. and d.) 



Skeleton spicules fusiform, smooth or very sparsely microspined, 

 gradually pointed. (PI. XII, fig. v. a.a.) 



Dermal spicules long, acerate, slightly curved, entirely sjjined ; 

 spines irregular, longer towards the middle of the spicule. (Ibid. 



CO.) 



Birotulate spicules stout ; shafts with numerous long, jDointed 

 spines ; surfaces of rotules rounded ; rays deej)ly cut, tapering, some- 

 times incurved (ibid, b.b.b.d.) (PI. VI, fig. v. b.) 



Meas. Skeleton spicules O'Olll by 0"00045 inches. Length of 

 dermal spicules 0-0038 inches. Birotulates 0-0019 by 0-00015 in- 

 ches. Diameter of disk O'OOl inches. 



Sab. On stones etc., in i*apidly running water. 



Loc. Chester Creek, Pennsylvania ; Western New York etc. 



In the summer of 1881, I resided temporarily in a fine agricul- 

 tural district in Chester County, Pennsylvania. As a rule, July is, 

 in this part of the world, too early for the collection of mature spec- 

 imens. Some species, however, form their gemmules thus early ; 

 and, while wading along the east branch of Chester Creek, there a 

 shallow stream, averaging eight or ten feet in width, turning over 

 stones in the "riifs," or little rapids, probing the roots of encroach- 

 ing trees and examining the stems of water plants, I found traces of a 

 sponge, which, under the microscope, proved to be a third species of 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



Carterius. The gemmules were young, to be sure, but the tendrils 

 were there and the novelty of the species was easily seen. 



Further down the stream, where the public road crosses it by an old- 

 fashioned "covered-bridge," in the shelter of it and, incidentally, pro- 

 tected from the trampling of cattle by fences of barbed wire, was found 

 the very headquarters, the "zoological garden" of this species. Nearly 

 every stone and the gravelly bed of the stream between them, wa.s 

 covered with it just under the surface of the water. The masses were 

 not large, say five or six inches in diameter; and while thickest near 

 the middle, tapered off into a delicate nimbus around the edges. This 

 appearance was more conspicuous during the early autumn, when, the 

 thicker portions having become brown with age, a new growth, 

 probably from the germination of some of the older gemmules, had 

 started around the edges, and in this no gemmules could yet be 

 found. Soon after, the bunches began to dwindle in size, and on 

 the day after Christmas of that year, I find it recorded, "the masses 

 have all been washed away, leaving a slight muddy incrustation, 

 consisting partially of filiform algse, with numerous sponge gem- 

 mules and their tendrils, which have aided in binding the particles 

 of a deposit of silt or fine mud into a persistent film, that will prob- 

 ably last until the time for germination next spring." The follow- 

 ing year the amount of this sponge, in that locality, was much re- 

 duced, and since that date I have had no opportunity to examine 

 it. 



In common with the other two species, this fresh-water sponge is 

 very loosely held together ; with the same conspicuous wave-lines of 

 spicules marking its surface. On the gemmules, the broad ribbon- 

 like tendrils, seemingly pierced by the tapering ends of the forami- 

 nal tubules, are in strong contrast with the slender, thread-like fila- 

 ments of C. tenosperma, next to be described ; still less do they re- 

 semble those inconsequent, almost embryonic, features of G. tubisper- 

 ma and C. (Dosilia) stepanowii. Yet the spicules of this species, 

 skeleton, dermal and birotulate, closely resemble those of C. tuhis- 

 perma and both are suggestive of S. repens. 

 (4) Carterius tenosperma, Potts. (PI. VI, fig. vi; PI. XII. fig. iv.) 



Spongilla tentasperma, Potts. Proc. Acad. Nat: Sci. Phila. July 

 1880. 

 Spongilla tenosperma, Potts. Proc. Acad. Nat, Sci. Phila. Nov. 



1880, p. 357. 



Carterella tenosperma, Potts. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. June 



1881, p. 150. 



18 




266 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Sponge yellowish-green ; creeping upon and around water-plants 

 and roots, matting them together and thus forming loose, irregular 

 masses several inches in diameter, often including shells of Planor- 

 bis and other snails. Less frequently it is found encrusting the up- 

 per surface of stones or the gravelly bed of a stream to the depth of 

 two or three lines. Sponge itself of no describable form. 



Gemmulaj spherical, light yellow or brown, rather numerous among 

 the skeleton spiculse and the attached roots ; granular crust charged 

 with birotulate spicules. Foramina sub-elliptically enlarged and 

 prolonged to a length about equal to one fourth the diameter of the 

 gemmule. Just below its rounded termination it gradually flares 

 and divides into two to five tapering, slender, curling or twisted ten- 

 drils, whose length may be as much as a half an inch. These cir- 

 rous appendages or prolongations of the chitinous coat of the gem- 

 mule in this species are generally round, but occasionally, near their 

 origin, are flat for a short distance. (PI. VI, fig. vi.) 



Skeleton spicules slender, subfusifbrm, gradually j)ointed, very 

 sparsely microspined. (PI. XII, fig. iv. a.a.) 



Dermal spicules slender, nearly straight acerates, entirely s])ined ; 

 spines longer near the middle of the spicules. (Ibid, d.d.d.) 



Birotulate spicules with cylindrical shafts, abundantly spined ; 

 spines as long as the rays of the rotules ; acutely conical. Rays of 

 supposable rotules numerous, spreading outward like a burr or brush; 

 often with a spinous prolongation in the line of the shaft. (Ibid. b. 

 b. c.c. e.e.) 



Meas. Skeleton spicules 0-0098 by 0-00025 inches. Length of 

 dermal spicules 0-0028 inches. Birotulate spicules 0-0018 by 0-0001 

 inches. Diameter of disk 0*0006 inches. 



Hab. As described. 



Log. Lansdowne Run, Centennial Grounds, Philadelphia ; Le- 

 high River, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania ; Rahway River, New Jer- 

 sey, etc. 



The visitor to the American Centennial Exposition of 1876, wheth- 

 er foreigner or "to the manner born," if but for a minute he with- 

 drew his eyes from that wonderful display of human art and rested 

 them upon the natural beauties of the landscape in the midst of 

 which it was placed, can hardly even now fail to remember the "Lake" 

 with its ever flowing geyser fountain, lying north of "Machinery 

 Hall." Escaping by a passage under the "Belmont Road," the over- 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 267 



flow of this pond made its way to the Schuylkill River through the 

 lovely "Lansdowiie Glen," filling the little "Run" that, before and 

 since that summer, has but softly murmured through it, with an un- 

 familiar turmoil of waters. In its normal condition this stream is 

 one a child could step over at almost any point, and all its water 

 could probably be carried through a six-inch pipe. 



That portion of it just below Belmont Avenue has become some- 

 what famous in our local biological annals. It was here that Prof. 

 Leidy found, a year or two after the "Centennial," thousands of col- 

 onies of his beautiful Bryozoan, Cristatella idee, covering every stick 

 and stone. Here in 1878 the writer discovered that fragment of 

 Spongilla fragilis, which, thus accidentally, directed his attention 

 toward a line of study in which he has since had such great enjoy- 

 ment ; and here two years later was first found the subject of the 

 present memoir, a sponge whose novelty was exhibited in a greater 

 departure from previously known types, than had been the case with 

 any before discovered. Spongilla tentasperma, S. tenosperma, Car- 

 terella teno-sperma and Carterins tenosperma, ring the changes in its 

 name and history, till it now stands accepted, I trust, (coincident- 

 ly with C. tubisperma of Mr. Mills,) as the first instance in which 

 the spherical chitinous body of a sponge gemmule has attained a 

 cirrous development, conspicuous in its character and evident in its 

 purpose. 



The cirri in this species are very long and slender; curling and 

 twisting in infinite contortions about themselves and the roots among 

 which they grow; — so long, that they have been combed out to an 

 actual length of half an inch, or twenty five times the diameter of 

 the gemmules of which they are parts. More or less of the sponge 

 was found at the same locality for several successive years, until 1885, 

 when, as search was not made until December, its apparent absence 

 was not to be wondered at. 



One circumstance not easily explained must be mentioned as a 

 part of its history. The birotulates of those gemmul?e collected in 

 1880 were peculiar in this, — there were no proper rotules, and the 

 rays at the ends of each spicule stood out in every direction, like the 

 bristles of a mop. On those gathered during the following, and, so 

 far as I remember, during subsequent years, this habit has clianged 

 and the rotules in nearly all cases are perfect. The collections were 

 made at precisely the same locality ; and in all other respects the 

 sponges appear to be identical. 




268 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



We have now examined in detail all the genera comprised in the 

 group SpongilUna, that are clearly characterized by the presence of 

 "seed-like reproductive organs called statoblasts" or gemmules. There 

 yet remain three genera in which no such organs have been discovered. 

 As shown by their geographical derivation, they are as certainly 

 fresh water sponges as any of the others, and the absence of the sup- 

 posed distinctive features, may or may not prove to be real. They 

 have not yet been found; that is all. But neither have the sponges 

 been examined at the place of their growth, if we except the Lubo- 

 mirskice, by any one familiar with the peculiarities of the fresh water 

 forms, who has torn to pieces mass after mass, as was done in the case 

 of S. lacustris, v. abortiva, S. asjnnosa, H. pidovensis etc; as must be 

 done in our treatment of all the evergreen sponges, which, probably 

 for the very reason that they live throughout the year, perfect but 

 few gemmules. 



I know that it is in the line of my own arguments, already given, 

 to believe it possible that fresh water sponges, living in deep, 

 tropical waters, should not adopt this method of rej^roduction ; and 

 I do believe it, theoretically. It is necessary however that this theory 

 should be proved by a more thorough and systematic examination, 

 of the genera now to be briefly mentioned, which are neither all 

 troj^ical nor "deep" in their origin, when, if they maintain their 

 claim, it will be in order to form a new group to comprise them. 



Between two of these genera there is a strong family resemblance 

 at least in the forms of their skeleton spicules. Those of the third 

 genus, Lubomirskia, as well as the prevailing habit of the species, seem 

 to differ from the others. I regret that I have not been able to find 

 English translations of Dr. Dybowski's descriptions, but can present 

 only the meagre sketches prepared by H. J. Carter from his exam- 

 ination of the plates furnished by the author. 



(Vila.) Prov. Gen. UEUGUAYA, Carter. 



TJruguaya corallioides, Carter. Ann. and Mag. 1881, p. 100. 



Spongilla corallioides, Bowerbank. Proc. Zool. Soc. etc, 1863, p. 

 460. 



Sponge "irregularly digitate ; rising into a polychotomous and 

 anastomosing mass of cylindrical branches, which may attain sever- 

 al inches (seven or more) in all directions. Color faint whitish yel- 

 low or dark leaden on the surface ; internally white or colorless. 



Surface even, vitreous in appearance, extremely hard, smooth and 

 compact, interrupted by small raised vents, more or less uniformly 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 269 



distributed at short and unequal distances fi'om each other. Inter- 

 nal structure composed of short, densely reticulated fibre, formed of 

 the skeleton spicules of the sponge, in bundles firmly united together 

 by colorless sarcode, which, together with the spicules, in a dried 

 state, simulates, from its hardness and vitreous appearance an en- 

 tirely silicified mass. Skeleton-spicule very robust, much curved, 

 cylindrical, rounded at both ends, smooth or microspined, about six 

 times longer than it is broad. Statoblast unknown." Carter. 



Loc. "Rapids of the River Uruguay, above the town of Salto, 

 Uruguay." 



Several large specimens of this sponge have been collected by dif- 

 ferent travellers, and are deposited in English museums. Mr. Car- 

 ter mentions the names of Messrs. George Higgin, W. Bragge, 

 R. M. Andrew, and Dr. Garland in this connection. 



(Vllb.) Gen. POTAMOLEPIS, Marshall. 

 Zeit. fur Naturwissenchaft, XVI. N. F.IX. Bd. 553. Leipzig, May, 1883. 



"Monactinellid, silicious, fresh-water sponges of great brittleness, 

 with curved, obtuse, smooth spicules, which, when dry, are closely 

 cemented together by a small quantity of organic substance. No 

 gemmules." Marshall. 



The descriptions of the following species, are abbreviated from a 

 translation of the above paper, as found in the "Ann. and Mag." etc. 

 1883, p. 391 etc. The specimens examined and described by Dr. 

 Wm. Marshall were collected by Dr. Pechuel-Loesche from the 

 Congo River, Africa, about 150 miles from the sea, and above sev- 

 eral "Falls" named. 

 (1) Potamolepis leubnitzise, Marshall. 



"Forming crusts of l-r5 millim. thick, finely jjorous, of yellow- 

 ish white color and silky lustre ; exactly the appearance of unbaked 

 wafers. The surface presents a few crateriform elevations of 0"25- 

 0'40 mm. in height, standing in not very distinctly marked rows, 

 upon faint undulations, which divide dichotomously in both direc- 

 tions and frequently disa})])ear, and in which a certain parallelism is 

 unmistakeable. At the summit of each elevation there is an oscu- 

 lum of irregular elongati-ovate and sometimes elongati-triangular or 

 pentagonal form, separated usually by a space of two millimeters. 

 The mouths, which are usually furnished not with smooth but with 

 finely notched margins, lead into shallow gastric spaces, which im- 

 mediately break up into several canals ; in the angular mouths a ca- 

 nal is frequently found at each angle." "These canals run horizon- 




270 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



tally, brandling dicliotomously and communicating with those per- 

 taining to the neighboring oscular systems. Incurrent apertures nu- 

 merous, circular, about 0*1 mm. in diameter, though some are much 

 smaller." 



(2) Fotamolepis chartaria, Marshall. 



"Oral cone isolated with round, entire margins O'8-l mm. in diam- 

 eter. Incurrent apertures not numerous, 0"1 mm. in bi'eadth. Sur- 

 face like blotting paper, with a dermal skeleton composed of very 

 delicate, felted, straight acerates 0'08 mm. long. C blor of sponge 

 when dry, chocolate-brown." 



(3) Potamolepis pechuelii, Marshall. 



"Sponge crust-like, with numerous oscular cones 10 mm. high, oval 

 at base; the longer and shorter diameters being about as 2 to 1. 

 These cones are placed in rows in the direction of their longest diam- 

 eters and are generally inclined at an angle of about 45°. The spic- 

 ules of the species are more slender and less bent than those of either 

 of the others. The color of the sponge is ash-gray with a silky lus- 

 tre, and this and the large size of the meshes give it the appearance of 

 coarsely porous pumice-stone." Marshall, abridged. 



As before remarked, the skeleton spicules throughout this genus 

 closely resemble those of Uruguaya ; both being stout, cylindrical, 

 curved, with hemispherical terminations. I understand Mr. Mar- 

 shall to say that he would probably have attached his species to 

 Mr. Carter's genus if its title had not been so "inconveniently local." 



The reader is referred to Dr. Marshall's paper on these Congo 

 sponges, for many interesting and valuable observations. 



(VIIc.) Gen. LUBOMIRSKIA ? 

 (1) Lubomirskia baicalensis, Pallas. 



Mr. Carter remarks: "One learns from the figure of this species, 

 that it consisted of long digital processes, about 14 inches long by 

 one half an inch in their greatest diameter ; more or less uniform- 

 ly inflated at short intervals (that is, buUate), but solid throughout. 

 (Dr. Marshall remarks that specimens have been found 60 centimeters, 

 nearly 24 inches, high.) Structure elastic, but not crumbling be- 

 tween the fingers. Color dark gray or olive green. Skeleton spic- 

 ule curved, fusiform, gradually sharp pointed, spiniferous generally, 

 but especially towards the ends, while in some cases the rest of the 

 shaft is smooth. Parenchyma spicule a smooth, thin ace rate." 



Carter. 



Log. Lake Baikal, Central Asia. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 271 



(2) Lubomirskia bacillifera, Dybowski. 



Sponge "massive, more or less lobed. Structure much the same 

 as that of the foregoing species, but finer and softer. Coh)r grass- 

 green. Skeleton spicule curved, cylindrical, sometimes fusiform, 

 round at the ends, and spiniferous generally, but more particularly 

 over the ends ; sometimes smooth over the rest or middle of the 

 shaft. Parenchyma spicule a small, thin, smooth acerate." Carter. 



Loc. Lake Baikal. 



(3) Lubomirskia intermedia, Dybowski. 



Sponge "flat, spreading. Structure like that of 7>. batcaleusis, but 

 more tender. Color yellowish or olive-green. Skeleton-spicule 

 curved, fusiform, gradually sharp-pointed, spiniferous generally. 

 Parenchyma spicule a large, smooth acerate." Carter. 



Loc. Lake Baikal. 



(4) Lubomirskia papyracea, Dybowski. 



Sponge "papyraceous in thinness, with smooth, shining surface. 

 Structure very soft. Color white. Skeleton thick, (seven times 

 longer than broad), curved, cylindrical, round at the ends, thickly 

 spiniferous throughout.- Parenchyma spicule a very small, smooth 

 acerate." Carter. 



The above species, described by Dr. W. Dybowski, were collected 

 by his brother Dr. Benedict Dybowski and Herr W. Godleuski, all 

 from Lake Baikal in Siberia. Very many specimens were obtained 

 by them from various depths in the Lake, and the conclusion reach- 

 ed by their intelligent observations was that the sponge was totally 

 devoid of gemniules. I do not know that these observations suffi- 

 ciently covered the range of the seasons, to make the result positive. 

 The condition of Lake Baikal as a geologically "recent" fresh-water 

 lake, still retaining in its f>\una etc., traces of its former marine 

 character, (such as the existence of seals in it or in a recently con- 

 nected body of water), renders these observations peculiarly import- 

 ant. 




272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1887. 



CONCLUSION. 



In closing this (third) Monograph of the fresh-water sponges, it is 

 with the consciousness that the work of classification occupies a very- 

 humble place among biological efforts and that all systems must of 

 necessity be tentative and temporary, soon to be superseded by oth- 

 ers, the results of a larger knowledge, gained by the contemplation 

 of a wider horizon. Even so, it has its value in helping forward 

 this very result. 



Some points in the present seemingly narrow field of scientfic la- 

 bor, worthy of the thought and study of future students have already 

 been suggested, such as the necessity of geminules in fresh water as 

 distinguished from marine sponges ; the process of their formation ; 

 their function and the means by whicli that end is attained ; the law 

 of variation in the quantity and character of the enveloping crust, 

 and the time and mode of formation of the embedded armature ; — 

 all have yet to be conclusively studied. Other questions of a more 

 limited character occur, in the search for the line of derivation that 

 must be supposed to run through all the genera and species ; and in 

 the association, apparently indicated amongst otherwise dissimilar 

 species, by the presence in them of correspondent forms, such as the 

 birotulate dermals found in certain Spongillas and Meyenias and 

 the more frequent recurrence in several genera, of acerate dermals 

 with characteristic, centrally located, perpendicular spines, etc. 



The true meaning of such facts inust yet be discovered, and I 

 know of no more hopeful field of labor for a young naturalist, seek- 

 ing for "new worlds to conquer," than that provided by the fresh- 

 water sponges. The few active workers in this field, in North 

 America, have, thus far, but glanced at a few streams and lakes, 

 mostly in the neighborhoods of Buffalo, Chicago and Philadelphia, 

 and in parts of Florida, Nova Scotia and Newfoundland. There can 

 be little doubt that the rest of the Continent holds many rare prizes 

 in trust for younger and better equipped explorers. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 273 



Explanation op Plates. 

 The magnification used in plates V. and VI. is irregular, as 

 suited the several subjects of the artist. The figures on plates 

 VII to XII inclusive, are uniformly magnified about 200 times 

 and represent the spicules as seen upon prepared slides. 



Plate V. 



Fig. I. Spongilla lacustris. Surface of gemmule showing,-a, posi- 

 tion and character of "infundibular" foraminal aperture ; 

 b, acerate gemmule spicules, lying upon, or imbedded in, 

 a granular "crust." (See PI. VII.) The position of these 

 greatly varies in the different "varieties" or "forms," gov- 

 erned generally by the thickness of said "crust." 



Fig. 11. Spongilla fragilis. J., upper surface of part of "pavement 

 layer" of gemmules ; a, foraminal tubules, mostly curved, 

 located at the centre of the upper surface of each gem- 

 mule; b,b, acerate spicules embedded in the "cellular paren- 

 chyma" which surrounds and combines the gemmules. 

 (See PI. VIII.) B, section of "group" of "errant" gem- 

 mules; a, curved foraminal tubules, always outward; b, 

 envelope of cellular jiarenchyma charged with acerate 

 spicules. 



Fig. III. Spongilla igloviformis. A, "elevation" of dome-shaped 

 group of gemmules, showing through the surface of the 

 "cellular parenchyma" which has been made transparent, 

 the several gemmules in position, surrounded by the echin- 

 ating acerate "parenchyma spicules." (PI. VIII, fig. v.) 

 B, the surface (transparent) of a similar group as seen 

 from above. The foraminal aj^ertures, not here visible, all 

 open inward. 



Fig. IV. Meyenia leidyi. A, upper surface of portion of a layer 

 of gemniules, each of which, besides its "birotidate" ar- 

 mature, (PI. X, fig. i.) (not sliown in this sketch) is sur- 

 rounded by-c, a "lattice capsule" of spicules resembling 

 those of the skeleton ; at the summit of which an open 

 space occurs, around-a, tlie foraminal aperture; more 

 than one being sometimes present. B, section of part of 

 "chitinous coat" of a gemmule, showing (imperfectly)-^, 

 its armature of birotulate spicules in position. 




274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Fig. V. Meyenia jluviatilis. Surface of gemmule. "Crust" charged 

 with ''birotulate" spicules (amphidisks) ; one star-shaped 

 "rotule" resting upon the chitinous coat, the other pre- 

 sented to the observer, or more or less foreshortened. (See 

 PI. IX, fig. iii, etc.) 



Fig. VI. Meyenia crater if ormis. Section of chitinous coat of gem- 

 mule, supporting-6, hooked "birotulates" with very long 

 shafts ; whose positions, normally radial, are, in this spe- 

 cies, frequently twisted or confused. (PI. X, fig. v.) 



Plate VI. 



Fig. "I. Heteromeyenia argyrosperma. Partial section of "chitin- 

 ous coat" and "crust" of gemmule, showing: — a, the 

 somewhat narrowing "foraminal aperture ;" thick "gran- 

 ular crust" charged with-6, "long" and-6\ "short" hirot- 

 ulate spicules. (PI. XI, fig. i and ii.) The outer rotules 

 ' of the longer birotulates, when covered by the crust, form 



conical protuberances as figured. They are, perhaps, more 

 frequently seen naked. 



Fig. II. Tuhella pennsylvanica. Partial section of chitinous coat 

 of gemmule, surrounded with granular crust; in which 

 are embedded,-^, minute, incequibirotulate spicules, (PL 

 XII, fig. i, ii, iii.) the larger rotule always resting upon 

 the chitinous coat. The thickness of the "crust," in this 

 species, varies in diflfereut localities, from barely equalling 

 the height of the spicules, to the extreme of covering them 

 two or more times that depth. 



Fig. III. Carterius tuhisperma. Partial section of chitinous coat 

 and crust of gemmule; the latter embedding-6, birotulate- 

 spicules. Foraminal aperture prolonged into a long tu- 

 bule-a, flaring and funnel-shaped at its extremity and 

 divided into several short tendrils or cirrous appendages,- 

 d. 



Fig. IV. Carterius stepanoivii. Partial section of gemmule showing 

 protoplasmic contents, crust, birotulate spicules-6, foram- 

 inal tubule-a, penetrating the subquadrangular, flange- 

 like extension-c?, divided at the angles into numerous very 

 short cirrous appendages, (after Dybowski.) 



Fig. V. Carterius latitenta. Partial section of chitinous coat, bear- 

 ing crust, and birotulate spicules-6 ; and extended into a 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 275 



foraminal tubule shorter tliaii that of either of the previ- 

 ous species, surrounded and terminated by one or two long 

 and broad, ribbon-like cirrous appendages-c?. 

 Fig. VI. Carterius tenosperma. Section as before ; the short tu- 

 bule -a, divided into several long, slender cirrous appen- 

 dsLges—d. 



Plate VII. 



Fig. I. SponglUa lacustris. From an Ice Lake, on the Sierra 

 Nevada Mts, alt. 7000 feet:-a, skeleton spicule; h,b,b 

 bent, cylindrical, acerate gemmule spicules ; c,c,c, spined 

 acerate "dermal" or flesh spicules. Received from Dr. 

 H. W. Harkness, through Miss. M. M. Greer. 



Fig. II. Spongilla lacustris. From Ridley Creek, near Media, 

 Pennsylvania :-a,a, skeleton spicules ; h,b,h, acerale gem- 

 mule spicules ; c,e,c, "dermal" acerates. 



Fig.|III. Spongilla lacustris. From English type, received from 

 H. J. Carter •.—a,a,a, skeleton spicules ; b,b, etc. acerate 

 gemmule spicules ; c,c, dermal acerates. 



Fig. IV. Spongilla lacustris. From May's Landing, New Jersey: 

 -a,a,a, skeleton spicules ; b,b, long, spinous, acerate gem- 

 mule spicules ; c,e, small dermal acerates. 



Fig. V. Spongilla lacustris, var. lehighensis. From the Lehigh 

 River, at White Haven, Pennsylvania:-ff,r/, skeleton spic- 

 ules ; b, b, b, strongly spinous gemmule spicules ; c,c,g,g, 

 short dermal acerates. 



Fig. VI. Spongilla lacustris, var. montana. From Lake on Cats- 

 kill Mts., New York, alt. 2500 feet; representing skeleton 

 and gemmule spicules; no dermals have been drawn. 



Plate VIII. 



Fig. I. Spongilla fragilis. From type specimen "presented by 

 Dr. Jos. Leidy to the Academy of Natural Sciences, Phil- 

 adelphia: "-a,a,a,a, skeleton spicules ; b,b,b,b, spicules from 

 the "cellular parenchyma." 



Fig. II. Spongilla fragilis, var. minutissima. From Lake Hopat- 

 cong, New Jersey :-a,a, skeleton spicules ; b,b, spined forms 

 sometimes seen; c,c,c, long, irregular, spinous parenchymal 

 spicules. 




276 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Fig. III. Spongilla fragilis. From Calumet River, Illinois :-a,a, 

 skeleton spicules ; h, c, d, e, variable parenchymal spicules; 

 ///, spined, spherical forms frequently seen throughout 

 the species. Collected by B. W. Thomas. 



Fig. IV. Spongilla fragilis, var. minuta. From Lehigh Gap, Penn- 

 sylvania :-a,a,a, skeleton spicules ; b,b,b, long, spined, 

 acuminate, "parenchymal spicules ;" e,c,e, spherical and 

 amorphous forms. 



Fig. V. Spongilla igloviformis. From Doughty's Pond, Absecum, 

 New Jersey :-a, a, c, skeleton spicules ; h,h, "parenchy- 

 mal spicules" nearly equally long, but more spinous. 



Fig. VI. Spongilla aspinosa. From Doughty's Pond, Absecum, 

 New Jersey :-a, ordinary skeleton spicule ; b, skeleton 

 spicule ; acuate or rounded at one end; c, d, malformations 

 of skeleton spicules ; e,e,e, smooth dermal spicules ; ///, 

 globular or discoidal masses of silica, frequently observed 

 in this species. 



Plate IX. 



Fig. I. Meyenia fiuviatilis. From an English type, received from 

 H. J. Carter -.-a and b, spined skeleton spicules ; c, smooth 

 do.; d,d,d, birotulate gemmule spicules sometimes with 

 acuminate umbos ; e,e,e, end view of rotules. 



Fig. II. Meyenia Jiaviatilis \i\r. actaninata. From Boston, Massa- 

 chusetts :-a, ordinary skeleton spicule ; h,b, slender forms 

 ofdo. ; c,c,d,d, acuminate or misshapen birotulate gem- 

 mule spicules. 



Fig. III. Meyenia fiuviatilis, form astrosperma, syn. From Lehigh 

 Gap, Pennsylvania :-(»,«, skeleton spicules ; b,b, birot- 

 ulate genunule spicules; d,d, malformed do.; c, group of 

 rotula^ ; e,e, single rotules showing an ordinary distrib- 

 ution of the rays. 



Fig. IV. Meyenia fiuviatilis. From Chester Creek, near Lenni, Penn- 

 sylvania :-a, proper skeleton spicule; 6, malformed do.; 

 d,c?,d, short, robust birotulates; c,c,c rotules with symmet- 

 rical, conical rays, sub-spined at margins ; e,e,e,e, malform- 

 ations of bii'otulates, frequent in this specimen. 



Fig. V. Meyenia robusta. From Honey Lake Valley, California;- 

 a, a, smooth skeleton spicules ; b,b,b, coarsely spined gem- 




1887.] NANURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 277 



mule birotulates ; d,d,d, single rotules ; c,e,e,e, exceeding- 

 ly misshapen forms. Collected by Dr. Geo. H. Horn. 

 Fig. VI. Meyenia subdi.visa. From St. John's River, near Palatka, 

 Florida :-a, smooth, b, c, d, spiued skeleton spicules; e,e, 

 e,e, long, massive gemmule birotulates, spined and sub- 

 spined ; fj, rotules of do. Collected by Henry Mills. 



Plate X. 



Fig. I. Meyenia leidyi. From Schuylkill River, Philadelphia, 

 Pennsylvania :-a,a,a, smooth skeleton spicules, abruptly 

 pointed; h,h, do. with rounded terminations; c,e, short 

 birotulates with "entire" mai-gins ; d, do. with rotule twist- 

 ed or exflected ; e, face of rotule ; /, group of rotules as 

 they appear uj^on the surface of the gemmules. 



Fig. II. Meyenia millsii. From Florida :-a, microspined skeleton 

 spicule ; b,h, mature gemmule birotulates with smooth 

 shafts ; c,e,c, probably immature forms ; d,d,d, foce of ro- 

 tules, "lacinulate" or delicately notched, and without rays. 

 Collected by H. Mills; 



Fig. III. Meyenia everetti. From Pictou, Nova Scotia -.-a, a, a, a, 

 smooth, slender skeleton spicules; b,b,b,b, long smooth, 

 gemmide birotulates ; c,c, d,d, minute dermal birotulates. 

 Collected by A. H. MacKay. 



Fig. IV. Meyenia everetti. From Gilder Pond, on Mt. Everett, 

 Massachusetts :-a,a,b,b, smooth skeleton spicules ; c, c, c 

 gemmule birotulates ; d, end view of rotule formed of 

 hooked rays ; e,e,e, minute dermal birotulates. Collected 

 F. Wolle and H. "S. Kitchell. 



Fig. V. Meyenia crater if ormis. From Crowe's Mill, Brandywine 

 Creek, Pennsylvania :-o,a, slender, microspined skeleton 

 spicules ; b,b,b,b, mature gemmule birotulates with short 

 hooked rays; c,d,e,e, supposed immature forms. 



Fig. VI. Meyenia plumosa, var. palmeri. From the Colorado of the 

 West, Mexico:-a, robust, microspined skeleton spicule; b,c,c 

 spined gemmule birotulates ; d,d, rotules of do., irregular- 

 ly notched ; e,e,e, sub-stellate dermal spicules ; /. imper- 

 fect form of do.; y,*/, amorphous, "Scotch terrier" forms. 



Plate XL 



Fig. I. Heteromeyenia argyrosperma. From Lehigh Gap, Penn- 

 sylvania :~a,a, sparsely microspined skeleton spicules ; b, 




278 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



h,h, geniniule birotulates of the longer class, with oue to 

 three hooked rays ; c,c,g,c, spined birotulates of the shorter 

 class. 



Fig. II. Heteromeyenia argyrosperma, var. tenuis. From Harvey's 

 Lake, Pennsylvania •.-a,a,a, slender skeleton spicules ; h,h,h 

 long birotulates ; c,c, birotulates of the shorter class ; all 

 more slender than in the typical species ; d, imperfect do. 



Fig. III. Heteromeyenia repens. From Lehigh Gap, Pennsylvania:— 

 a,rt,a, microspined skeleton spicules ; h,h, gemmule biro- 

 tulates of the longer class, with recurved, hooked rays ; 

 c,c,c, gemmule birotulates of the shorter class ; d,d,d, ro- 

 tules of do., e,e, dermal spicules ; /. amorphous spicule. 



Fig. IV. Heteromeyenia ryderi, var. haleni. From near Plainfield, 

 New Jersey :-a,a,a,a, slender, microspined, skeleton spic- 

 ules; b,b,b, long, hooked; gemmule birotulates; c,c,c, short 



, do; with flat rotules ; d,d,d, surface of last named. Col- 



lected by A. 1). Balcn. 



Fig. V. Heteromeyenia ryderi, type. From Indian Run, Philadel- 

 phia, Pennsylvania :-«,, skeleton spicule ; b,h,h, long gem- 

 mule birotulates, hooked and spined ; c,e,c,c,c, short birot- 

 ulates ; d,d,d, surface of rotules, margins lacinulate, sur- 

 face microspined or granulated ; e, amorphous spicule. 



Fig. VI. Heteromeyenia ryderi, var. pictovensis. From Pictou, Nova 

 Scotia :-a,6,c, densely spinous skeleton spicules, various 

 terminations ; d,d,d, long gemnjule birotulates ; e,e,e,e, 

 short do. 



Plate XII. 



Fig. I. Tubella pennsylvanica. Lehigh Gap, Pennsylvania •.-a,a, 

 a,a, spined skeleton spicules ; b,b,b, gemmule "insequibi- 

 rotulates," or trumpet-shaped spicules ; e, group of ro- 

 tules seen from above, showing the relative sizes of the ro- 

 tules ; d, surface of single large rotule. 



Fig. II. Tubella pennsylvanica, var. intermedia. From Indian 

 Run, Philadelphia :-a,a,a, stouter skeleton spicules ; b,c,c, 

 "inajquibirotulates ;" d,e,e, end view of do. showing com- 

 parative size of rotules in this variety. 



Fig. III. Tubella pennsylvanica, var. fanshawei. From Bristol Pond, 

 Pennsylvania :-a,a,b,b, skeleton spicules ; c,c,d,d, birot- 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 279 



ulates more neai-ly equal than in either of the former cases, 

 as shown again hj-fj',g,g, end views. 



Fig. IV. Carterius tenospenna. From Lansdowne Run, Philadel- 

 phia, Pennsylvania •.-a,a,, skeleton spicules ; b,b,b,c, spined 

 gemmule birotulates with burr-like rotules ; e,e,e, ends of 

 do.; d,d,d,d, long, spinous, acerate dermal spicules. 



Fig. V. Carterius latitenta. From Chester Creek, Pennsylvania:- 

 a,a, skeleton spicules ; h,h,h,h, gemmule birotulates, varia- 

 ble in length; d,d, face of rotules ; c, spined dermals. 



Fig. VI. Carterius tubisperma. From Niagara River, near Buffalo, 

 New York -.-ata, skeleton spicules ; b,b,b,b,b,d, gemmule 

 birotulates ; c, face of rotule; e,e, long, spined dermal acer- 

 ates. Collected by Henry Mills. 




280 proceedings of the academy of [1887. 



June 7. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Twenty-one persons present. 



June 14. 



Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenbeeger, in the chair. 



Twenty-five persons present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : — 



"On the structure and Classification of Mesozoic Mammalia." 

 (Abstract). By Henry F. Osborn. 



"Notes on the Specific Names of certain North American Fishes." 

 By Carl H. Eigenmann. 



June 21. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Twenty-nine persons present. 



Note on Chionanthus. — Mr. Thomas Meehan remarked that 

 Chionanthus, L., until recently has been described as having perfect 

 flowers. Of many authors to hand Dr. Gray only, notes, in the 

 later edition of his Manual that it is occasionally polygamous. 



It is rather one of those plants that are on the border-land of 

 dioecism which, while having flowers apparently alike on all plants, 

 have impotent anthers with a perfect pistil in one individual, and 

 polliniferous anthers and an imperfect pistil in the other. The plant 

 is therefore actually dioecious, while having flowers apparently 

 perfect. This is certainly the rule. 



There is, however, a great difference in the flowers when critically 

 examined. All authors he had referred to describe the pistil as 

 "emarginate or "bifid." 



This is only the case in what we must call the male plant. (Fig. 1.) 

 In the female it is capitate. (Fig. 2.) The anthers in 

 the male are broadly ovate, barely pointed, thick, and 

 of an uniform eburnean tint, with an abundance of 

 yellow pollen. In the female they are linear ovate, green- 

 ish white with a mucronate, almost awned point, never 

 Fig. I. polliniferous, and usually have more slender filaments. 

 No author seems to have noted the capitate stigma. Probably 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 281 



the male plants are more abundant, and come more readily to hand. 

 Of eleven he liad out in a swamp to bear seed, before being 

 aware of its bi-sexual character, only three are berry- 

 bearing, and have the capitate stigma that characterizes 

 the female flowers. On his lawn there is a large plant, 

 isolated from otliers, with capitate stigmas, that has 

 Fig. 2. never borne a seed. He had an impression that he had 

 seen single specimens in cultivation, in years gone by, with seed, 

 so it is not improbable, under rare exceptions, a plant may have 

 actually perfect flowers. 



An interesting fact is that the usual description of "anthers, 

 sometimes 3 or 4" is correct only as applicable to the male plant; 

 this increase in the normal number is there frequent. He had not 

 been able to find more than two in the female. 



Although the white flowers are conspicous, and the males have a 

 delicate fragrance, he had not known them to be visited by bees or 

 other insect, except the minute pollen eating thrips found in most 

 flowers. 



This may be from the abundance of other flowers on his 

 grounds, at the time when these plants are in blossom. Industrious 

 as bees are, they visit those flowers first that have nectar and pollen 

 in profusion, in preference to gleaning in scant fields, taking to 

 these only when abundant crops ai'e scarce. The pollen is granulous, 

 and fertilization is evidently effected through the wind. The 

 flowers are therefore anemophilous. 



June 28. 



Mr. Charles Roberts, in the chair. 



Fourteen persons present. 



A paper entitled "On the Structure and Classification of the 

 Mesozoic Mammalia," by Henry F. Osborn, was presented for 

 publication, 



Mr. Theo. Wernwag, was elected a member. 



The following was ordered to be printed : — 



19 




282 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



ON THE STRUCTURE AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE 

 MESOZOIC MAMMALIA. 



by dr. henry f. osborn. 

 [Abstract.] 



This paper is an outline of the writer's observations upon the 

 structure of the British Mesozoic Mammals and a classification of 

 the Mesozoic Mammals in general, in view of their relationship to 

 each other and to recent orders. 



When Professor Owen completed his Memoir^ in 1871 there 

 were but twenty genera of pre-Tertiary Mammals known to science. 

 Discoveries in the Mesozoic strata of Germany/ South Africa' and 

 North America* have now increased this number to over forty gen- 

 era, five of which are from the Upper Triassic, the remainder from 

 the upper and lower Jurassic, and one from the Cretaceous.^ Suc- 

 cessors of the Mesozoic mammals have been discovered at the bot- 

 tom of the American Eocene^ and in the lower French Eocene Beds.'' 

 Among the latter are mammals which clearly connect upper Trias- 

 sic* with Quaternary genera.' Through the kindness of the 

 members of the Geological Department of the British Museum I 

 was recently enabled to study the British types very carefully, and, 

 enjoying soon afterw^ards an examination of the fine collections of 

 Professor Marsh and Professor Cope,'" I have been able to compare 

 the type specimens of all the Mesozoic mammals, with the exception 

 of four genera." The most striking result of this comparison is the 



1. Monograph of the Fossil Mammalia of the Meso^oic Formations, Pabeon- 

 tographical Society, 1S71. 



2. Triglyp/ius, discovered by Prof. Fraas in the Rhaetic Beds near Stuttgart. 



3. Tritylodon, from the Stormherg Beds, Upper Triassic, South Africa. 



4. Numerous genera discovered by Prof. Marsh in the Atlantosaurus Beds 

 parallel with the English Purbeck. 



5. Meniscoessus, described by Professor Cope, from the Laramie Beds. 



H. I refer to Professor Cope's genera Poly mastodon, Chirox and Ptilodiis. 



7. The Plagiaulax group, discovered by Dr. Lemoine at Rheims. 



8. Microlesies and 9 Thylacoleo a.re \m\\.iidhy ihe\n\.<irm&d\i\\& Plagutulacidae. 



10. This assistance will be more fully acknowledged elsewhere. I am es- 

 pecially indebted to Mr. Richard Lydekker for much \aluable assistance. 



11. Stereognathits, Atnphilestes, Triglyphw;, A/ut o/estes antii/uus (PUeninger'^ 

 type specimen.) 



Full acknowledgement will be made later of the use made of the valuable 

 suggestions of Professor Owen and other writers. 




^887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



close structural similarity between genera from widely separate 

 localities, and the absence of types which are wholly distinct from 

 the British, even in this greatly extended field of exploration. In 

 other words, the Mesozoic genera appear to have had a very wide 

 geographical distribution, and many scattered forms, while generi- 

 cally distinct, are closely connected by family and ordinal characters. 

 The second result, which has been attained much more slowly, is that 

 these mammals, with a few exceptions, can now be provisionally 

 classified, as they fall into small groups with carnivorous, omnivor- 

 ous, insectivorous, and herbivorous dentition, each with clearly 

 marked characters. The third result which rests upon more del^at- 

 able grounds is, that Avhile many of these Mesozoic families became 

 extinct in succeeding geological periods, many others belong in or 

 near the ancestral lines of families still existing among the Marsu- 

 pials and Insectivores. 



Before entering the subject of classification I will give a brief 

 resume of my observations upon the British genera in so far as they 

 differ from, or are additional to those of Professor Owen. It appears, 

 from the dentition of a mandibular ramus belonging to Amphitherium 

 which has been recently added to the Britisli Museum collection, 

 that three distinct genera have hitherto been included under this 

 genus, which may be separated by the number of premolars, by the 

 conformation of the molar crowns and the form and positions of the 

 condyle, as Amphitherium, Amphitylus and Amphilestes} (2) Phas- 

 colotherium. The formula is i 4 c 1 pm m 7. It seems more 

 probable that this genus has lost its premolars, (which formerly may 

 have filled the diastema), than that they should all have become 

 molariform, a modification which is always slowly acquired. (3) Tri- 

 conodon. The upper canine of this genus has a double fang. The most 

 interesting fact brought out is the evidence the various specimens 

 furnish of relationship to the Marsupials in the succession of the 

 teeth.^ The fully adult molar formula is pm 4 m 4. The fourth 



1. The Aniphitherium (A. Prevostii) molar is bicuspidate with a low posterior 

 heel. The Amphilylus {^gen. nov.) molar has three blunt cusps, and an internal 

 cingulum ; form,/w 6, »/ 6. The Amphilestes molar has three prominent cusps 

 and a pronounced cingulum, encircling the crown ; /;« 5, m 6. After a personal 

 examination of the types, Mr. Lydekker writes me (April 16lh) that he finds the 

 formulae of both Amphilestes and Amphitylus, as follows : « 4 r 1 pm 4 m 7. 



2, Assisted by Mr. Lydekker, I have confirmed the suggestions of Professor 

 Owen and Professor Flower. 




284 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1887. 



premolar early replaces a molariform milk tooth di and the fourth 

 true molar is very late in coming in. Triacanthodon is thus a 

 synonym of Triconodon. (4) Phascolestes. There is no doubt that 

 this genus is distinct from Peralestes,^ but it is a question whether 

 the type mandible does not belong to a genus near Stylodon. Form, 

 i 4 c 1 pm 4 m 8. (5) Leptodadus, is widely separate from Stylodon} 

 Its molars, with single recurved cusps and elevated heels are whollj 

 unique. The post-canine formula was probably pm 4 m 6. (6) 

 Peramus is also widely separated from other genera in its dental 

 formula, pm 6 m 3 ; all other polyprotodout genera of this period 

 having four or more molars. The teeth in the type of this genus 

 are seen upon the outer surface only. It is probable that Avhen the 

 inner surface is known, the formula will be modified to pm 4 m 5. 

 (7) In the genus Spalacotherium the molars and premolars are well 

 differentiated; the formula is i ? 2, c 1, pm 4, m 6, (8) Peralestes 

 probably has a closely related form in Peraspalax, in fact the generic 

 distinctness of the latter is doubtful. The post-canine formulae are, 

 Peralestes pm 5 m 6; Peraspalax, pm 4, m 7. (9) The maxilla 

 which was referred to the genus Stylodon by Professor Owen, must be 

 removed to a distinct genus, Athrodon, characterized by the compact 

 position and peculiar wearing pattern of the crowns. (10) The 

 maxillary formula of Bolodon is found to be i ? 2, c 0, pm 3, m 4. 

 The characters of these teeth are clearly shown in the accompanying 

 cut. 



Leaving out of view for the present, all consideration of rela- 

 tionships to recent forms, we find that the Mesozoic Mammalia di- 

 vide into two larger groups. In the first group (I) one of the incisors 

 is greatly developed at the expense of the others and of the canine; 

 there is a diastema varying in width in front of the first premolar 

 and the true molars are invariably characterized by two or more 

 antero-posterior rows of tubercles separated by longitudinal valleya 

 or grooves. For this group we may adopt the sub-order Multituber- 

 culata, proposed by Professor Cope.* 



The second group (II) does not show such close internal rela- 

 tionship among its members as does the foregoing, but is well separ- 

 ated from it by such characters as the following: 



The incisors are numerous and subequal in size, the canines are 



3. Professor Owen separated lliis i;enus doubtfully from Peralestes. 



4. Professor Owen placed it tloubtfully near this genus. 

 6. American Naturalist, 1884, p. 687. 




1887.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



285 



large; there is usually no diastema, the premolar-molar series are 

 usually in excess of the typical number and the molars are cusped 

 rather than tubercular. If we were sure of the marsupial relation- 

 ship of the members of this group we might place them with the 

 sub-order Polyprotodonta, but some of the included families belong 

 near the Insectivora. 



/. Mullituberciilata. 



(1) Plagiaulacidce. This is probably the oldest family of this 

 group and is well characterized by the laterally compressed trenchant 

 premolars. The molars of Microlestes antiquus of Plieninger are 

 essentially similar to those of Plagiaulax. The M. Moorei molars 

 cannot be distinguished generically from those of Plagiaulax.^ 

 The least specialized Plagiaulax is Ctenacodon, Mar.sh.' The modi- 

 fications in this family are well known as witnessed in the series 

 Plagiaulax, I*tilodus, Neoplagiaulax. 



Fig. 1. Right Maxilla of Bolodon. 

 (2) Bolodontidce. This family includes Bolodon and Allodon 

 Marsh.^ The premolars are not trenchant. The molars have two 

 rtraight rows of conical tubercles separated by a longitudinal valley. 

 Although allied to the Plagiaulacidce we cannot place these genera 

 in this family because the molar pattern is essentially different. 



6. The molars of M. Antiquus, M. Moorei and P. Minor in each case show a 

 closely similar disposition of the tubercles. 



1. Am. Journ. Sc. and Arts, Nov. 1879, p. 238. 



2. This genus is very close to Bolodon in all the details of tooth structure, 

 but shows the alveolus of a small median incisor which may be wanting in 

 Bolodon. Allodon has been placed in the Plagiaulacidae by Professor Marsh, 

 Am. Journ. Sc. and Art^, April 1887, p. 329. 




286 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1887, 



Bolodon has conical tubercular instead of trenchant premolars. In 

 Plagiaulax the tubercles are irregular crenations of the border of the 

 basin shaped crown. In Bolodon they are minute, sharply defined 

 cones arranged in straight rows with a deeply worn groove between 

 them ; this pattern is like that of Trltylodon with two rows of tubercles 

 instead of three. 



The general likeness between Bolodon and Tritylodon is very 

 striking in spite of the great discrepancy in size. The latter genus 

 is perhaps synonymous with TriglypJms* (Fraas) and forms the type 

 of the family (3) TrUylodontidae^ (Cope), characterized by the ab- 

 sence of trenchant premolars and the presence of upper molars with 

 three parallel rows of tubercles separated by grooves. The Poly 

 mastodoutid(K (Cope) forms a fourth, more recent family^ 



The position of Stereo gnatlms, Chirox and Meniscoessus is un- 

 certain, although they probably belong to this Sub-Order. Menis- 

 coessus stands nearest the Plagiaidacidae, and Chirox intermediate 

 between the Bolodontidae and Tritylodontidae. 



II. Second Group. 



1. JURASSIC MAMMALS. 

 Among the second group of mammals I find that the molar 

 pattern forms an advantageous starting point for classification. 

 Contrary to the usual statement, the premolars are invariably unlike 

 the molars'*, but the whole dental series, as well as the mandible, 

 are in a marked degree correlative in structure and in most instances 

 distinctly specialized for certain kinds of diet. 8ome of the molar 

 patterns with the correlated structures, prevail in a number of genera 

 which we may group in a family, without knowing exactly where to 

 place it in the zoological scale. The molars of other genera are 

 transitional in structure between two distinct types. Other genera 

 again are entirely isolated in their molar structure where no allied 

 forms have been discovered. This classification by families is, of 

 course, a temporary one, subject to change as the genera become, 

 more fully known. The Stylodontidae form the only fully defined 

 family. 



4. See Neumayr. Neues Jalirbuch fiir Min. u. Pal. 1884, p. 279. 



1. Am. Naturalist, 1SS4. 



2. Phascolotherium forms an apparent but not real exception, since the pre- 

 molars have probably disappeared. In Diplocynodon, (Marsh, loc. cit. Plate x), 

 the premolars when viewed upon the inner surface are very distinct from the 

 molars. 




1887.] NATURAL SCI liNCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 287 



The chief molar types which characterize families are as 

 follows : 



A. Without opposition of misps. (1) With three stout, erect 

 cusps in line. (2) Transitional. With three cusps not in line, two 

 being rotated inwards. (3) With three slender, divergent cusps 

 in line. B. With completely opposed cus])s, sejyarated by a longitud- 

 inal valley. (4) C. With completely opposed cusps connected by 

 transverse ridges. (5) Molars with a single styloid cusp on one side 

 of the crown connected by divergent ridges with a pair of cusps 

 on the other side. D. Without cusps. (6) The crowns columnar, with 

 a smooth wearing surface. 



By a careful study of the dentition and mandibular structure, we 



find that these families unite in small groups which are in early 



stages of differentiation along certain lines of functional adaptation. 



These lines are not sharply defined, but by a comparison of the 



typical forms with the most neai-ly allied genera of known adaptation 



I find we may divide these sub-groups into carnivorous, omnivorous 



insectivoi'ous and herbivorous series ; employing these terms in a broad 



sense as indicating an initial rather than an advanced specialization 



of structure. 



Carnivorous Sub-Group. 



There are many points of resemblance between the following three 

 families, although at first sight they differ widely. They mostly 

 embrace the largest genera and the teeth are generally adapted to a 

 carnivorous diet, especially in the first and second families; in the 

 third there is an apparent divergence towards another type of dentition 

 and function. The molars have' a sti'ong internal cingulum. The 

 premolars have basal cusps. The condyle is low and the coronoid 

 broad. 



A. (1) Triconodontidoe.^ The typical genus of this family is 

 Triconodon {s7jn. Triacanthodon, Owen; Priacodon, Marsh.) The 

 dentition is now fully known. There is no diastema. The premolars 

 have strong basal cusps. The canines and the incisors are erect and 

 powerful. The mandible is strong and the condyle is below the 

 molar level. These characters and the likeness to Thylacinus show 

 that this was a carnivorous animal. An older and much less 

 specialized but probably allied form was Amphilestes. Amphitylus 

 appears to be related by the character of its molars, but separated 

 by its mandibular characters, as the condyle is high and pedunculate. 



1. Proposed by Professor Marsh. 




288 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Amphitherium, on the other hand is allied by the structure of the 



Fig. 2. Portion of the right mandible of Amphitherium. 



mandible and separated by the pattern of the molars, which lack the 

 third cusp. The last two genera are somewhat isolated. 



(la) An allied family is the Phascolotheridae^ embracing Phas- 

 colotherium and Tinodon, in which there is a diastema behind the 

 canine ; true premolars arc few or wanting^, and the mandibular 

 angle is represented merely by the inflection of the lower border. 

 The molars are like those of the Triconodontidae except that the 

 anterior and posterior cusps are smaller and are slightly rotated in- 

 wards. 



(2) Spalacotheridae\ This family embraces Spalacotherium 

 and Menacodon. The mandible is without a distinct angle, like that 

 in Phascolotherium, but shallower and with a more elevated condyle. 

 There is no diastema. The incisors and canines are somewhat similar 

 to those of Triconodon. The premolars have strong anterior and 

 posterior basal cusps. The anterior and posterior cusps of the 

 molars are strongly rotated inwards. 



Omnivorous Sub-Group. 

 B. The families embraced in this division are quite closely 

 inter-related both as regards their dentition and diet. The 

 genera vary from middle to large size. The typical forms (Perales- 

 tidae) were probably omnivorous. The incisors are not known, the 

 canines are large and erect, the premolars have prominent basal 

 cusps. Instead of an internal cingulum, the lower molars have a 

 more or less prominent internal row of low cusps. The condyle is 

 usually on or below the molar level. 



2. This name is preferaljle to Tinodontidne recently proposed by Professor 

 Marsh, since Prof Owen's genus is much the best known. It is quite probable 

 that the Phascolotheridae will be subsequently united with the Tticonodontidae, 

 linked by intermediate forms with premolars. 



3. The post-canine teeth of Tinodon have not as yet been fully described. 

 1. This family name was proposed by Professor Marsh, loc. cit. p. 340. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 289 



The (4) Peralestidae embrace Peralestes and Peraspalax which 

 are closely related if uot synonymous. The lower premolars have dis- 

 tinct basal cups. The inner and outer molar cusps, instead of 

 being united by a ridge as in the last, are separated by a longitud- 

 inal valley. The upper molars (Peralestes) have a lofty internal 

 and several low external cusps, while the lower molars, (Peraspalax) 

 have a high external and low internal cusps. The canines are strong. 

 The lower molars are somewhat simpler but resemble those of 

 JDasyurus and Didelphys. I infer that, like these modern marsu- 

 pials, these animals were omnivorous. 



The lower molars of the highly specialized genus Paurodon, the 

 type of the Paurodontidae (Marsh), although fewer in number, are 

 quite similar to those oi' Peraspalax and suggest an affiliation of 

 these two families. 



The Diplocynodontidae (Marsh) embrace DlploGynodon, Docodon, 

 and Enneodon. The molars are transitional, illustrating the exten- 

 sion of the internal cingulum into a broad shelf leading towards a 

 complete opposition of cusps such as we observe in Peraspalax, but 

 it is as yet uncertain whether this family is affiliated to the 

 Peralestidae. This family probably embraces Professor Owen's 

 genus Peramus, in which the molar and mandibular structure is 

 •imilar to that of Diplocynodon. 



Insectivorous Sub-Gro[jp. 



The two following families differ widely from those preceding. The 

 genera vary from an extremely small to middle size. The teeth 

 are adapted to an insectivorous diet, the incisors in the most typical 

 forms being procumbent and spatulate, the canines small, the pre- 

 molars lack distinct basal cusps, the last is lofty and pointed. The 

 molars have no cingulum. The condyle is high and the coronoid 

 slender. The formula is usually pm 4 m 8. The families are sep- 

 arated by the structure of the molars.'^ 



(3) Amhlotheridae. This embraces the genera Achyrodon and 

 Amhlotherium. The mandible is very slender and tapers to the 

 symphysis, with a high condyle. The incisors are semi-procum- 

 bent and spatulate, the canines small, the last premolars very lofty 



2. Amblotherium and Achyrodon are represented by mandibles seen upon 

 the inner surface only. In the matrix impressions there is no evidence of outer 

 cusps, but the teeth closely resemble those of the Stylodontidae as seen upon the 

 inner surface, and these families may prove to be the same. 




290 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1887. 



and without basal cusps, while the molars have no internal cingula 

 and no opposition of cusps. 



C. (5) Stylodontidae^. Thanks to the discoveries of Professor 

 Marsh, this family is now very fully represented and the molar 

 structure is well understood. It embraces Stylodon (Stylacodon)', 

 Aestheuodon, Laodon and Dryolestes which is very similar to the 

 genus Phascolestes (Owen.) There is little doubt therefore that the 

 latter genus belongs here rather than near Feralestes. The resem- 

 blance of Stylodon to Chrysochloris, observed by Professor Owen, is 

 very much strengthened by this extended knowledge of the Stylodon 

 molars, and indicates that this family was insectivorous. The 

 structure of the mandible is verj' similar to that of Amblotherium. 



Herbivorous Sub-Group. 



D. The single family embraced in this division is widely separated 

 from all which precede it. The structure of the molars indicates 

 an herbivorous diet similar to that of the Rodents and the Wombats. 



(6) Athrodontidae. Athrodoif is unique in its dentition among 

 the Mesozoic mammals. The tall trihedral crowns are closely ap- 

 plied at their sides, thus falling into a curve. The inner face is 

 styloid, while the outer is grooved and the triangular wearing 

 surface is traversed by a faint median ridge, thus resembling one 

 half the crown of a Phascolomys molar. The last premolar is trans- 

 forming into a molar, the others are small. The canine is large 

 and bifanged. 



The genus Leptocladas is isolated. 



Fig. 3. The inner surface of the left niMxilla of Athrodon. 



1. This family name was suggested by Professor Marsh in 1880 to embrace 

 Stylodon and Siylacodon. It is probably equivalent to the Dryolestidae more re- 

 cently proposed by the same author. 



2. These genera appear to be the same. 



3. Gen. Nov. Type, maxilla of Stylodon piisillus, Owen. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



TRIASSIC MAMMALS. 



Dromatheri'um is widely aberrant, and is the most reptilian in ap- 

 pearance of all the Mesozoic genera. Professor Marsh has proposed 

 the family Dromatheridae to embrace this genus, but without defining 

 it. Uniting it with Microconodon, the family may be characterized 

 by the imperfect division of the fangs of the molars and the wide 

 diastema behind the canine. The reptilian (Theromorph) condi- 

 tion of the molar fangs may be found to separate these genera still 

 more widely from the Jurassic forms so as to represent anew order of 

 mammals, the Protodonta. 



Conclusion. 



It is now generally admitted that many of the genera embraced 

 in the MtUtituherculata were Marsupials, and on many grounds it 

 is safe to place this group as a Sub-Order of the Marsupialia. 

 Are the Jurassic members of the second group also to be placed in this 

 order or do they form a distinct order by themselves ? Professor 

 Marsh in his recent view of the Mesozoic mammals has held the 

 latter view. It is, however, imjjossible to find a single common char- 

 acter^ or set of characters for these genera which is of ordinal value. 

 On the other hand, there are many grounds for placing the Tri- 

 conodontidae, Peralestidae and Athrodontidae, and their affiliated 

 families, in or near the ancestral lines of the modern Dasyuridae 

 and Phascolomidae respectively, while the Stylodontidae are similarly 

 related to the Chrysochloridae. These grounds may be partially 

 stated. What holds good of one genus is naturally true of all the 

 genera which are clearly allied to it. (1) Triconodon has one 

 more premolar but otherwise resembles Thylacinus both in the 

 structure of the mandible and in the form and succession of the 

 teeth. (2) Peraspalax, although much more imperfectly known, is 

 allied to Dasyiirus in its molar structure. (3) Athrodon, although 

 differing from Phascolomys in the possession of a large canine, shows 

 a marked resemblance to this genus in the molar structure. We 

 may designate the allied carnivorous, omnivorous and herbivorous 

 sub-groups as proto-Marsupialia, a sub-order distinguished by the 

 almost invariable presence of four premolars, a number unknown 

 among modern Marsupials. 



1. The mylohyoid groove is universally present, but is also found in 

 Myrmecobius. 




292 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



In the Amhlotheridae and Stylodontidae we probably have a 

 line of lusectivora. (4) Dryolestes has a molar pattern which is 

 not observed in any marsupial, but is seen in Chrysochloris among the 

 Insectivora. Since, however, it is common for marsupials to mimic 

 the dentition of other orders, this relationship must be held with 

 , some reserve. 




1887.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 293 



July 12. 

 Mr. Charles Morris, in the chair. 

 Nine persons present. 



July 19. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Nine persons present. 



August 2. 

 Mr. Charles Morris, in the chair. 

 Eight persons present. 



August 9. 

 Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Eleven persons present. 



The Publication Committee reported in favor of j)ublishing a 

 paper entitled "On the Structure and Classification of Mesozoic 

 Mammalia," by Henry F. Osborn, in the Journal of the Academy. 



On an Aquatio Larva and its Case: — The following from Miss 

 Adele M. Fielde, dated Swatow, China, April 25, 1887 was read: — 



During last January, I found on the level surface of the coarse 

 sand which covers the bottom of an aqueduct near here, under an 

 inch or two of clear running water, little structures resembling a 

 gray net spread to catch fish, or a tiny cave with a gauze awning 

 stretched over the entrance. The arches had a span of from an 

 eighth to a half an inch and always opened toward the current. 

 They were to be seen in scores, with a buttress of coarse sand in 

 the rear, and a minute aperture in the floor. The force of the 

 stream had in a few cases swept away the buttress leaving the arch 

 of gauze, with gray filaments, streaming from its torn hinder edge. 

 The occupant of the wee grotto was in every case a caterpillar, not 

 more than five-eighths of an inch long. It bun-owed in the sand of 

 of the floor, sti'etched its head forth vertically, and fed upon what 

 had been caught in the delicate roof of its den. 



Its head, and the three thoracic segments, each of which bore a 

 pair of four jointed legs ending in two hooks, were of a glossy 

 brown, while the following eight segments were either gray or green, 

 and the terminal segment translucent white. The terminal ses:ment 




294 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



bore two cylindrical prongs, each ending in a tuft of hairs, and 

 having underneath a brown claw, like those on all the feet. Eight 

 segments, beginning with the metathoracic, and ending with the 

 third from the last, bore on the ventral surface two tufts of white 

 tracheal gills, which issued from the body in a single stem and 

 then branched irregularly in several finger-shaped processes, in such 

 fashion as to give the effect of four longitudinal roAvs of gills along 

 the ventral side. 



This small cave-dweller seems to be near akin to those found by 

 Miss C. H. Clarke, in Stony Creek, Mass. and described by her in 

 a "Description of two interesting houses made by caddis-fiy larvse," 

 in the Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History, May 

 24, 1882. It is also similar to a species of Ilydrojisyche, previously 

 described by Dr. Mtiller, in Southern Brazil. 



From hektograph copies sent to me by Miss Clarke, of drawings 

 made by Dr. Miiller, I conclude that some free floating larva houses, 

 vase-shaped, translucent, less than a quarter of an inch long, and 

 with four crenulated floats, found by me here at Swatow, are identi- 

 cal with the Lagenopsyche Spirogyrce, found by Dr. Miiller in 

 Southern Brazil. It seems thcit these minute Hydroptilida3, inhabit- 

 ing different continents, continue to have their cradles precisely 

 alike. 



August 16. 

 , Mr. Charles Morris, in the chair. 



Nine persons present. 



A paper entitled "On the Homologies and Early History of the 

 Limbs of Vertebrates," By John A. Ryder, was presented for 

 publication. 



August 23. 

 Mr. Charles Morris, in the chair. 

 Nine persons present. 



The deaths of the following were reported : — 

 Prof S. F. Baird, a member, Aug. 19, 1887; Nathaniel Archer 

 Randolph M.D., a member, Aug. 21, 1887; Ezra Michener M.D., 

 a correspondent. June 24, 1887 and H. W. Ravenel, a correspon- 

 dent, June 17, 1887. 



August 30. 

 Mr. Charles Morris, in the chair. 

 Fourteen persons present. 

 Mr. Harold Wingate was elected a member. 

 The following was ordered to be printed : — 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 295 



NOTES ON THE SPECIFIC NAMES OF CERTAIN NOETH 

 AMEEICAN FISHES. 



BY CARL H. EIGENMANN. 



1. In the Proceedings U. S. Nat. Mus. 1885 p. 72. Dr. Jordan 

 says. "The yellow Perch must . . stand apparently as Perca lutea. 

 The name Centropomus luteiis Rafinesque, "Precis des Decouvertes 

 Somiologiques, 1814" is apparently prior to that of Bodianus Jlaves- 

 cens Mitchill 1815. 



Prof. Mitchill also described this species in his "Report in Part 

 on the Fishes of New York, p. 18, Jan. 1, 1814, under the name 

 Morone flavescens. 



This name seems to be still earlier than that of Rafinesque and 

 the species may stand as Perca Jlavescens (Mitchill.) 



2. The name Morone interrttpta Gill seems to be preoccupied by 

 the Perca mitckilli var. interrupta Mitchill/ (Trans Lit. & Phil. Soc. 

 New York, i, 415, 1815), which is also a species belonging to the 

 same genus, Morone. As this species has no synonyms it may 

 receive the new name of Morone mississippiensis Jordan & Eigenmann 

 nom. sp. nov. 



8. In the transactions of the Literary and Philosophical Society 

 New York, i, pp. 457 and 458, 1815, Mitchill gives an account of 

 a small herring under the name of "New York Shadine (Clupea 

 radina,)" The description reads: — 



"An elegant species with a small smutty spot behind the gill- 

 cover, but with neither sjoots nor stripes on its back or sides. Mouth 

 wide and toothless. Tongue small. 



"Back delicately variegated with green and blue. Lateral line 

 straight, sides silvery white, considerably above that line, and below 

 it quite to the belly. The white reflects vividly green, red or other 

 splendid hues. Head rather elongated. Lower jaw projecting. 



"Scales very easily deciduous. Form neat, taper and slender. 

 Gills rise into the throat on each side of the root of the tongue. Eyes 

 pale and large. Tail deeply forked. On account of the even 

 connection of the false ribs the belly is not at all serrated, but quite 

 smooth. A semitransparent space in front of the eyes from side to 

 side. Rays, B. 7; P. 16; V. 9; D. 18; A. 15; C. 19." 



*That is Morone lineata (Bloch). We are unable to separate generically 

 Morone from Koccus and the name Alorone has a few lines priority. J. & E. 




296 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Leaving out of consideration the first paragraph, this is a fair 

 description of Etrumeus teres DeKay. There is no evident spot behind 

 the gill covers in alcoholic specimens and the mouth has teeth. 

 There is a narrow dark bar extending on the sides along the posterior 

 margin of the opercle to its angle. This may be the smutty spot 

 referred to by Mitchill. The teeth are not evident to the naked 

 eye in specimens 3 inches long and may easily have been overlooked 

 by Mitchill. 



The specimen described by DeKay under the name of Alosa 

 sadina is evidently Brevoortia tyrannus and not the species of 

 Mitchill. DeKay fearing that sadina would get confounded with 

 sardina took the liberty to substitute notata for the former. DeKaj 

 thinks the description of Mitchill to be insufficient, but the character 

 "the belly is not at all serrated" separates this species from all 

 other New York clupeoides. 



The species may stand as Etrumeus sadina (Mitchill.) 




1887.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 297 



September 6. 

 Mr. Charles Morris, in the chair. 

 Sixteen persons present. 



September 13. 

 Mr. Charles Morris, in the chair. 

 Sixteen persons present. 



September 20. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Eighteen persons present. 



September 27. 

 Mr. John H. Redfield, in the chair. 

 Eight persons present. 



The death of Joseph Patterson, a member, was announced. 

 The following was ordered to be printed: — 



20 




298 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



ON THE HISTOLOGY OF SALPA. 



BY DR. CHAS. S. DOLLEY. 



In connection with a study of budding in Salpa by Prof. W. K. 

 Brooks, I have undertaken to review the histology of Salpa. 

 Thirty years ago Prof. E. Leuckart^ in commencing a study of the 

 same animal made the remark; "Seit fiinfzig Jahren sind diese 

 Thiere unzahlige Male von Zoologen und Anatomen beobachtet 

 worden, and doch ist das Studium derselben immer noch versprech- 

 end und lohnend fiir den Forscher," which is still true: and though 

 it may at first thought seem presumptuous to expect any thing new 

 from an animal which has been repeatedly investigated during the 

 last eighty years, it was deemed best to go over the ground accord- 

 ing to the improved methods of modern histological research. The 

 work was mostly done in the Biological Laboratory of Johns Hop- 

 kins University, and completed in the autumn of 1884 in the 

 Laboratory of the Zoological Institute in Leipzig. 



The specimens used, collected by the United States Fish Commis- 

 sion in Vineyard Sound, 'were preserved in alcohol, and in chromic 

 or picric acids. 



The so-called " Tunica exter7ia" or cuticle of Salpa is a secretion 

 product of the ectodermal cells of the ''Tunica interna." It is a hy- 

 aline, homogeneous, elastic material, showing at times^ especially in 

 young specimens, a faintly laminated appearance. This lamination 

 is absent in the adult forms, where it is destitute of any appearance 

 of structure, the clear field being broken only by minute granules, 

 and occasional small stellate or spindle-shaped cell-like bodies scat- 

 tered irregularly through it. These latter are, so far as I have been 

 able to observe, destitute of nuclei, and have no connection with one 

 another. They are probably the remains of cells which have wan- 

 dered from the ectoderm into the newly formed cuticular secretion. 

 Like the outer mantle of Doliolum and the "Hans" of Appendic- 

 laria^ it seems probable that this cuticle is from time to time shed 

 and renewed. I assume this from having found in my collection 

 several empty outer mantles, and also numerous specimens in which 



1 Rudolf Leuckart: — "Zoologische Untersuchungen." " Zur Entwickel- 

 ungsgeschichte der Tunicaten. Salpen und verwandte." Giessen 1854. 



2 Basilius Uljanin : — "Fauna und Flora des Golfes von Neapel." Mono- 

 graphic X. Doliolum. p. 14. Herausgegeben von der Zoolo<^ischen Station zu 

 Neapel, 1884. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILAD. 1887. 



DO 




PL. XIII. 



V ON SALPA. 





1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 299 



the outer mantle was unusually thin and soft as if newly formed, 

 while the exuvise were stiff and elastic. 



The "Inner Mantle" presents an ectodermal and an entodermal 

 cellular layer, which are separated by a hyaline connective basis 

 substance, of varying thickness, in which lie buried the viscera and 

 the muscular bands, and through which a net- work of blood sinuses 

 burrow in all directions. 



The ectoderm consists of a single layer, of pavement epithelium, 

 made up of polygonal, usually hexagonal cells (Plate xiii, figs. 1,2), 

 in which the protoplasm with its oval, often slightly bowed nucleus 

 occupies the central portion ; the remainder of the cell appearing 

 empty and transparent, and the boundaries between neighboring cells 

 being \qvj poorly defined. These cells lie directly upon the basis 

 substance of the inner mantle, and are on their outer surface in 

 contact with the cuticle or outer mantle. 



I have nowhere in the ectoderm of Salpa been able to find such 

 large pavement cells, containing a protoplasmic reticulum extending 

 out fi'om a centre plasma-mass as Uljanin^ and Grobben^ described 

 in the larvae of Doliolum ; but in several young sjiecimens I find a 

 layer of epithelial cells, lining the cavity containing the elseoblast 

 which present an appearance corresponding in almost every partic- 

 ular to those described by Uljanin. The plasma of these cells is 

 mostly collected into a central mass from which go out processes, 

 anastamosing freely and connecting it with a thin, less granular lay- 

 er at the i:)eriphery. The nuclei are oval in form and sometimes lie 

 to one side of the central mass. Kot having living specimens at 

 hand, I was unable to ascertain anything in regard to the granular 

 streaming in the protoplasmic network or the retraction of processes 

 and the extension of others by the central mass as described by 

 Uljanin. These cells lining the elseoblastic cavity are several times 

 larger than the cells of the ectoderm covering the body, but they 

 are similar in structure, and are probably larger because younger, 

 since Uljanin found several undergoing fission. At the two openings 

 of the body, branchial and cloacal, the ectoderm passes over into the 

 entoderm or layer of cells lining the inner mantle ; these correspond 

 almost exactly with those of the ectoderm, except that the cells are 

 usually from one third to one half smaller. They vary both in 



M. c. p. 13. 



2 C. Grobben : — Dolioluni und sein Generationsvvechsel, Arbeiten des zo 

 olog. Institutes zu Wien. Bd. IV, 11 ft. 2. 




300 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



breadth and thickness in various parts of the body, as do the ecto- 

 dermal cells. The entodermal cells are raised up into two ciliated 

 bands upon the lateral walls of the branchial chamber and form a 

 hoop-like elevation about its anterior end, which being inclined back- 

 ward as it passes toward the dorsal surface, connects the anterior 

 ends of the endostyle and the gill. 



Between the ectoderm and entoderm is a transparent structure- 

 less material of the same appearance as that composing the outer 

 material, but lacking the elasticity of the latter on account of its 

 being pierced and hollowed out by the numerous blood channels 

 and sinuses. Lying embedded in this porous matrix are the Mus- 

 cles ; these are composed of from six to twelve broad, flat, striated 

 muscular fibres arranged in bundles, with their broad surfaces in 

 contact and their edges presenting towards the interior and exterior 

 of the body. (figs. 3, 4, 5.) The fibres are made up of several 

 large muscle cells which have become fused together, each fibre 

 showing a large number of oval nuclei, clear, bladder-like, with rel- 

 atively large nucleoli. The fibres have a longitudinally striated 

 appearance caused by the granular contents being arranged in rows 

 representing the ultimate fibrillse. The transverse striation is not 

 always to be seen, but there is usually present, especially when the 

 bundles are viewed on the surface, an irregular transverse marking 

 of the entire bundle, due to certain portions of the cells taking a 

 deeper staining, (fig. 5.) 



The Gill ("hypopharyngeal band" Huxley) is a cylindrical tube 

 in the living animal, but in preserved specimens more or less col- 

 lapsed. Its walls are a continuation of the entoderm, and it is filled 

 with the same spongy basis material that separates the ectoderm 

 and entoderm, and like this it is perforated by an irregular series 

 of blood sinuses ; not by "a single grand sinus" as described by 

 Huxley^ (fig. 6, 7.). The cells constituting the walls of the gill are 

 in the main, identical with those of the entoderm and remain unchan- 

 ged along the upper and lower surfaces of the organ, but on the sides 

 they become altered into two longitudinal series of ciliated ribs 

 (e b, fig. 6.). These form cushion-like elevations, and are made up 

 of three layers of spindle-shaped cells, the outer layer of which bear 

 rather long stiflP cilia. 



The cilia-bearing cells are arranged in regular rows upon the cush- 



^ Huxley, (F. H.) : — On the Anatomy of Salpa and Pyrosoma. Royal 

 Society Transactions, 1851, p. 570. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 301 



ion, and the number constituting a transverse row in one of the 

 cushions has been given by Leuckart' as from four to twelve ; but 

 I find a much wider variation than this in the same and in different 

 individuals (fig. 7.). The number of ciliated ribs or cushions 

 also varies greatly, running from one hundred to two hundred. At 

 the anterior end of the gill two of the upper series of cushions are 

 continued out upon the wall of the branchial sac, and form the semi- 

 circular ciliated bands, which run obliquely around the anterior 

 extremity of the endostyle. 



The Endostyle of Salpa runcinata-fusiforrnis (fig. 8) differs 

 considerably from that which has been so thoroughly described by 

 FoP in various Tunicates, among others Salpa maxima, S. bicaudata, 

 S. pinnata, S. democratica. Running along each side of the endo- 

 style on the floor of the branchial cavity are the two ciliated bor- 

 der bands described by Fol (fig. 8, ebb.). In some specimens but 

 one of these bands appears to be ciliated, causing a lack of symmetry 

 as was early pointed out by H. Miiller and recently by Seeliger. They 

 consist of twelve or more thick cylindrical cells, bearing numerous cilia. 

 These bands are separated from the endostyle proj^er, by a space of 

 the ordinary pavement epithelium of the branchial sac. The "in- 

 ner" (Fol) "upper" (Uljaniu) glandular cushion is usually in section 

 made up of thirteen or fourteen large columnar glandular cells poor- 

 ly defined from one another (fig. 8, igc). Those lying deepest in 

 the groove are the longest and thickest, giving the cushion a wedge- 

 shape, the apex forming the upper edge of the endostyle. The cells 

 of this cushion have a granular contents and present in the lower 

 third large bladder-like nuclei with relatively large and striking 

 nucleoli ; the upper portion of each cell is coarsely granular, and it 

 is difficult to say where the cell ends and the secreted matter begins. 

 Usually the two cells lying at the lower end of the cushion show a 

 longitudinal striation composed of dark bacillus-like spots. Accord- 

 ing to Seeliger these cells contain the pigment particles, probably 

 the coarse granules of my preserved specimens, which gives to the 

 endostyle its blue color. There is no "middle intermediary band" 

 present in the endostyle of Salpa runcinata-fusiformis, the "inner 

 glandular cushion" resting directly upon the "middle glandular 

 cushion" (;igc. and 7ngc. fig. 8.). This is also the case with the 



1 1. c. p. 36. 



^ Fo/. {Hertnann) : — Ueher die Schleimdruse oder den Endostyl der Tun- 

 icaten. Morphologisches Jahrbucli. Vol. 1. 1876. 




302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



specimens described and figured by Seeliger. The middle glandular 

 cushion consists of eleven long j^ear-shaped cells, arranged with their 

 large ends towards without, giving a section of the cushion a kid- 

 ney-shape. The contents of these cells have none of the coarsely 

 granular look of those of the "inner" glandular cushion, but present 

 a faint longitudinal striation; they bear very clear round nuclei in 

 their basal portions, in the centre of which are prominent round nu- 

 cleoli. Below the "middle" glandular cushion is the so-called "out- 

 er intermediary band," (fig. 8, ot6.) but this is again different from 

 any described by Fol. Instead of consisting of simple pavement cells 

 it is here made up of three layers of spindle-shaped cells with long 

 rod-like nuclei ; the inner layer* of cells bearing fine short cilia. 

 The "outer intermediary band" as figured by Seeliger, differs from 

 those of Fol and myself in being composed of non-ciliated columnar 

 cells. The "outer glandular cushion" (pgc. fig. 8) is composed of 

 eleven cells very like those of the "middle" glandular cushion, and 

 arranged after the same manner, pear-shaped with large ends to- 

 wards without. They present however several nucleoli in each nu- 

 cleus instead of but one. The two halves of this cushion forming 

 together the floor of the endostyle present their largest curves in an 

 exactly opposite manner to that figured by Fol, but similar to that 

 of Seeliger. The basal portions of the largest cells of the two halves 

 lie together in place of being turned away from one another. In 

 none of my specimens have I been able to find the exceedingly long 

 cilia, nor the two small oval cells described by Fol as bearing them, 

 and as lying between the right and left halves of the "outer gland- 

 ular cushion." 



The Alimentary canal begins with a trumpet-shajDcd pharynx (jth 

 fig. 9,) the evei'ted edges of Avhich pass over into the entodermal 

 lining of the inner mantel. Its cells are rather long, cylindrical and 

 hyaline, with small clear nuclei in the basal portions ; they bear 

 coarse lancet-shaped cilia. The character of the cells remain the 

 same throughout the oesophagus, (pe fig. 9) which is considerably 

 contracted in diameter; but uj^on reaching that portion of the canal 

 which corresponds to the stomach of Doliolum, although there is 

 no special dilatation of the canal, they lose their cilia and assume 

 a somewhat more cuboidal character api^earing at times to be piled 

 loosely upon one another in several layers. Just here where the 

 ciliated epithelium of the oesophagus changes into that of the stom- 

 ach, the alimentary canal is joined by two ccecal appendages, one 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 303 



on each side laj^ping over the stomach and intestine (fig. 10 coe.). 

 The cells and their arrangement in these coeca are of an entirely 

 different character from those of the oesophagus, stomach or intestine. 

 A transverse section shows a series of very prominent, coarsely 

 granular, pyramidal cells, containing in the lower third a round 

 nucleus and several, usually three, nucleoli. They are separated 

 from one another by lighter, finely granular spaces, which when 

 view^ed from the surface of the coecum (fig. 11.) present a retic- 

 ulated appearance. 



Whether this is due to the presence of small polygonal cells sep- 

 arating and surrounding the large glandular cells, or whether it is 

 a mesh work of threads, formed from the secretion of these cells 

 and connecting them, as in the livers of some molluscs, I can not 

 be positive: I can not, however, detect any nuclei in the cell-like 

 spaces. 



Huxley^ described but one coecal appendage in Salpa, and called 

 it the stomach, into which, according to his description, opened the 

 ■duct from the net-work of auastamosing tubules which ramify over 

 the visceral nucleus. In the form which I have examined there 

 are present two coecal appendages (fig. 10) as single sections plainly 

 show and as I have learned positively by a model of the visceral 

 nucleus constructed according to Boru's"Platten-Modillir" method.* 

 Seeliger in his paper, referred to further on, also mentions and fig- 

 ures but one coecum. I can only account for the disagreement be- 

 tween the observations of Huxley and Seeliger on the one hand 

 and my own on the other, by the supposition that the number of 

 coeca varies in different species. I shall take advantage of the earl- 

 iest opportunity, however, to examine the visceral nuclei of all spe- 

 cies of Salpse. 



My observation agrees with those recently made by Seeliger in 

 confirming H. Miiller's statement that no food is ever found in these 

 coecal appendages, but their lumen is often filled with a structure- 

 less product of secretion. Opening as they do at the anterior end 

 of the stomach they are evidently of some material use in digestion, 

 and from the arrangement and structure of their walls I am of the 

 opinion that they function as hepatic organs, as was first proposed 



1 1. c. p. 571. 



^ Archiv. f. mikroscop. Anat. xxii, p. 684, 1883. Amer. Naturalist, 

 April 1884. 




304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



by H. Miiller^ from the peculiar contents of the glandular cells as 

 observed by him. 



As set forth at length in a former communication to this Academy* 

 I was unable in any of my specimens to find in the oesophagus or 

 stomach of Salpa the large plasmodium described by Koratneff.* 

 I have serial sections from many specimens showing the entire curve 

 of the alimentary canal from the mouth to the rectum in which the 

 lumen throughout is perfectly free from any organized protojilasmic 

 mass. Other preparations show the food laden mucus passing from 

 the branchial cavity through the pharynx, oesophagus and stomach. 

 Before reaching the stomach, on account of its containing much 

 protoplasmic material which has not yet been acted upon by the di- 

 gestive juices, this mixture of food and mucus takes staining very 

 well ; but after reaching the stomach it gradually refuses to stain, 

 and in the intestine consists of a mass of colorless debris, owing to 

 the organic materials having been removed by digestion. Sections 

 cut diagonally across the ffisophagus sometimes appear as though 

 the lumen of the tube was almost obliterated except a narrow slit 

 on one side, this is not actually the case as sections cut longitudi- 

 nally (fig. 9.) or at right angles prove. 



My observations opposed to the presence of an inter-cellular or 

 parenchymatous digestion in Sulpa, referred to above, have since 

 been confirmed by Oswald Seeliger* in his interesting and valuable 

 paper on the budding of Salpa, in which he refers to this subject as 

 follows : — "Ich muss demgegeniiber nun darauf aufmerksam machen, 

 dass Korotneff im Magen von Salpa africana Verhaltnisse angetroffen 

 hat, die darauf schliessen lassen, dass in denselben thatsachlich 

 Nahrung hineingelangt und daselbst verdant oder resorbirt wird. 

 Ich habe leider Koratneff*'s Angaben iiber die "freien Magenzellen" 

 und die "parenchymatose Erniihrung" der Tunikaten nicht an ver- 

 schiedenen Objekten nachstudiren konnen, bei Salpa democratica 

 aber fand ich sie nicht zutrefiend. Auch von anderer Seite (Dolley) 



1 Heinrich MuUer, Ueber die anatomische Verscliiedeiiheit der zwei For- 

 men bei den Salpen. Ztschr. f. wiss. Zool., Bd. IV. 1853, p. 330. 



^ "Some observations op])osed to the presence of a parenchymatous or intra- 

 cellular digestion in Salpa." April 15th 1884 vid. Proceedings, Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Philadelphia. Zool. Anz. 1884, p. 705. 



^ Dr. A. Koratneff. Ueber der Knospung der Anchinia. in Ztschr. f. wiss. 

 Zool. Bd. 40. Hft. ], 1884, Feb. 19. 



■* Oswald Seeliger. "Die Knospung der Salpen" Jenaische Zeitschr. fur 

 Naturwi-ssenschaft," Bd. 19, page 631. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 305 



hat man KorotnefF's AufFassung nicht zustimmen konnen, und es 

 ware in der That eine nochmalige Nachpriifung von dessen Mittheil- 

 ungen wiinschenswerth, bevor man das eigenthiimliche Verhalten 

 der Tunikaten beim jDhysiologischen Processe der Ex-niihrung zu der 

 Schlussfolgerung — der ich aber aus anderen Griindeu volkommen 

 beipflichte — verwendet "deswegen haben Avir in unserem Falle 

 Ursache, noch an der hohen genetischen Stellung zu zweifeln, die 

 den Tunikaten zugeschrieben ist." 



At the beginning of the intestine proper the cells composing the 

 walls resume the appearance of those of the oesophagus and again 

 cilia show themselves. 



The presence of cilia for moving on the intestinal contents is nec- 

 essary on account of the lack of any musculature in connection with 

 the visceral nucleus. There is present under all the cells of this 

 tract a delicate basement membrane in which nuclei may occasion- 

 ally be seen. Spreading over the visceral nucleus is a net-work of 

 delicate tubes ; the "darmumspinnende Driise" of Seeliger and 

 others. 



These consist of an extremely thin basement membrane bearing 

 cuboidal cells of a pale transparent character in which there was no 

 nucleus visible. In no place could I detect cilia in these tubules as 

 described by Chandeleon^ for Perophora, but I did find numerous 

 large concretion-like masses of a dark-bi*own color. Seeliger believ- 

 ing these glandular tubules to be hepatic in function might perhaps 

 consider the above dark-brown masses as biliary secretion. 



The disadvantage of having no living specimens to examine is ap- 

 parent when I say I can not find the plasma oft-shoots from the 

 stomach cells into the lumen of the same, nor the glandular cells, 

 containing yellow drops, seen by Seeliger in the stomach walls of 

 living specimens. 



Filling up the cavity produced by the doubling of tlie intestine, 

 and by the two coecal appendages, lie the Testes which consists of a 

 number of delicate tubes in which a basement membrane is scarcely 

 apparent; and a layer of clear round cells containing pear-shaped 

 nuclei, form the walls. I could not find the "spindle-shaped nu- 

 cleated cells forming a sort of connective tissue about the gland as 

 described by Leuckart.'^ 



The Heart lies in a pericardium which appears to be but a sac 



^ Th. Chandeleoii : — Recherches sur une annexer du tube digestif des Tu- 

 niciers in Bull de I'Acad. Roy. de Belgique. 44ine Ann^e. 2e Ser. T. XXXIX, p. 

 911, 187o. 



2 1. c. p 36. 




306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



formed from the entodermal layer of the inner mantle, the cells of 

 both being similar in every respect. The heart itself is composed 

 of a structureless basement membrane supporting a layer of striated 

 fusiform muscle cells. These "fibre cells" lie upon their flat sides, 

 with their long axes at right angles with the long axis of the heart. 

 They have a single oval nucleus and present a delicate transverse 

 striation (fig. 12.). They are much smaller than the fibres of 

 the trunk muscles. 



The Elwohlast (statoblast of Vogt.) situated on the central side of 

 the body near the cloacal opening consists in hardened specimens 

 of a mass of large irregularly polygonal bodies, showing no nuclei 

 and varying greatly in size. They are opaque and have a coarsely 

 granular appearance as if filled with a sort of yolk material. They 

 are undoubtedly cells which have been greatly engorged and modified. 

 In sections they usually drop out to a large extent owing to the re- 

 moval of the oil and fat by the reagents, leaving a reticulum made 

 of the transparent connective material of the inner mantel in a cav- 

 ity of which, or I'ather on the outer side of which, the elseoblast lies ; 

 the entire mass being covered with the peculiar large plaster cells 

 previously described. 



The function of this body seems still to be undetermined. In ad- 

 ult specimens it disappears entirely, but is present both in solitary 

 and chain Salpae when young. Vogt held it to be homologous with 

 the placenta, Salensky^ considers that in those Salpce. developed from 

 the egg it arises from the same elements out of which the blood cor- 

 puscles and muscles are formed ("amoeboid follicular cells") ; in the 

 chain Salpce it is developed from the mesoderm. 



The Nerve Ganglion or brain presents a nearly spherical mass 

 covered with a delicate membrane which seems continuous with the 

 outer sheath of the nerve trunks. Upon section it shows an outer 

 layer of apolar ganglion cells, only the nuclei of which are to be 

 seen as a rule, and a central portion of lighter coloi'ed fibrillar 

 ("punct") substance (fig. 13, NG.). 



Resting upon the brain and in fact a continuation both of the cen- 

 tral fibrillar core and the external layer of ganglion cells, is the 

 Visual Organ of Salpa, (regarded by Huxley as an auditory organ.) 

 Outside of its nervous central jwrtion (fig. 13 vo) is a layer of rather 

 large cylinder cells (fig. 13 pc.) containing in their inner halves a 



' Salensky (W.): — "Uber die Entwickelungsgeschichte der Salpen" in 

 Zeitscbr. f. wiss. Zool. XXVII 1877. Morphol. Jahrb. Ill p. 591. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 307 



round nucleus and a quantity of dark pigment ; the upper and outer 

 halves being clear and transparent. In no case did I find the nuclei 

 in the clear outer portion, as figured by Seeliger (1. c. pi. xi, fig. 13). 

 These pigment cells are in their turn covered with a layer of colum- 

 nar cells, each of which contains a nucleus in its outer end. This 

 layer does not seem continuous with the entodermal layer covering 

 the brain, and is probably a modified portion of the ectodermal layer 

 of the inner mantel. In one or two specimens which I had prepared 

 without ascertaining their specific name, I found the eye to be much 

 more flattened than in the figure given here, and divided up into 

 several lobes. 



From the above description, Saljja would seem to possess a sort of 

 compound eye. Passing out from the central fibrillar portion of 

 the brain, are several nerve trunks; from eleven to twenty-five 

 pairs, which show a clear envelope with a dark granular axis. No 

 fibrils are to be seen. The brain is covered by the entoderm which 

 is, however, not in direct contact with it at all points. 



Below and anterior to the brain the entoderm of the median dorsal 

 surface is invaginated to form the Ciliated Sac, (I'hypophyse.) This 

 structure as seen in other Tunicates has given rise to much discussion 

 in regard to its function. Ussow^ and Juliu^ regard this as a gland, 

 Joliet^ considers it to be olfactory in character. In Salpa it consists 

 of a simple tube (fig. 13, I'Hy.) closed at the end next the ganglion 

 against which it rests, and opening at the other end into the branch- 

 ial sac. Its walls are made up of short thick columnar cells carry- 

 ing heavy cilia. It, however, possesses no such peculiarities as the 

 glandular coeca described in Ascidia mammillata. 



Lettering op Figures, PL XIII. 

 (hs) blood sinus. 

 {Br or hr) branchia. 

 (ch) ciliated cushion (in gill). 

 (ebb) ciliated border band. 

 (ct) cuticle. 

 (coe) coecal appendages. 



1 Ussow: — "Beitrage zur Kenntniss der Organization des Tunicaten." 

 Moscow, 1876. 



•^ Julin (Chas.): — I'Hypophy.se des Ascidiens in Bull. Acad Sc. de Bel- 

 gique, 3d. Ser. T. 1. P. 2, p. 151. 



^ Joliet. M. L. : — "Sur le developpement du ganglion et du "sac cilie" dan 

 le burgeon du Pyrosome" Compte. rend., Ac. Sci. Paris. T. 94, No. 14, p. 988. 




308 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



(ec) ectoderm. 



(en) entoderm. 



(Hni) heart muscle. 



(ige) inner glandular cushion. 



(tm) inner mantle. 



(int) intestine. 



(I'Hy) I'hyi^ophyse. 



(m. b.) muscular bands. 



(m/) muscles fibres. 



(mgc) middle glandular cushion. 



(mib) middle intermediary band. 



(n/) nerve fibre. 



(ng) nerve ganglion. 



(oe) oesophagus. 



{ogc) outer glandular cushion. 



(oib) outer intermediary band. 



(pc) pigment cells. 



(ph) pharynx. 



(vo) visual organ. 



Explanation of Figures, PI. XIII. 

 Fig. 1. Section of inner and outer mantles. 



2. Surface view of ectoderm. 



3. Portions of three muscle fibres from muscular bundle. 



4. Section through one of the muscular bundles of the trunk 

 showing its position in the inner mantle. 



5. Seven muscle fibres as seen from a surface view of one of 

 the bundles. 



6. Transverse section of the entire gill. 



7. Longitudinal section through a portion of the gill, on the 

 plane of cb. in fig, 6. 



8. Showing one half of a transverse section of the endostyle 



9. Longitudinal section through the oesophagus. 



10. Transverse section of the intestine and the two coecal ap- 

 pendages. 



11. View of the outer surface of a coecal appendage. 



12. Striated muscular "fibre cells" composing the wall of the 

 heart. 



13. Vertical section through brain, visual organ, and I'hy- 

 pophyse. 




1887.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 309 



October 4. 



The President, Dr. Joseph Leidy, in the chair. 



Seventeen persons present, 



A paper entitled "The Classification of the Post-Cretaceous 

 Deposits." By Angelo Heilprin, was presented for publication. 



October 11. 

 The President, Dr. Jos. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Twenty-two persons present. 



A paper entitled "Prolonged Life of Invertebrates. Notes on 

 the Age and Habits of the American Tarantula." By Henry C. 

 McCook, D. D. was presented for publication. 



At the meeting of the Botanical Section held September 12th, a 

 paper entitled "Contributions to the Life-Histories of Plants." By 

 Thomas Meehan, was recommended for publication. 



Fossil bones from Florida: — Prof Leidy stated that he had 

 recently received for examination, from the Geological Survey in 

 Washington, two barrels and three boxes of fossil bones from 

 Florida. They are labelled as having been collected by L. C. John- 

 son, from Mixson's bone-bed, 10 miles east of Archer, Levy Co., 

 Florida. A note accompanying the collection, states that trenches 

 were cut in the bed to the bottom rock from two and a half to six 

 feet deep, and that the bones were found distributed abundantly 

 without order, through the clay from toj) to bottom. Tlie bones es- 

 pecially the larger ones, are generally much broken, though the 

 original texture is mostly preserved, and they exhibit no trace of 

 being rolled or water worn. The fractures appear to be entirely 

 accidental or with no evidence of human action. Some portions of 

 clay in large hollows of several specimens exhibit finely commi- 

 nuted bones. The fossils pertain to the same animals previously in- 

 dicated from the same locality in former communications (See the 

 Proceedings, 1884, 118; 1885, 32; 1886, 11, 37.) They consist 

 chiefly of the remains of Rhinoceros proterus, Mastodon floridanus, 

 and Auehenia major. Among them are a number of well preserved 

 molars of the Rhinoceros and Mastodon. Several more character- 

 istic specimens prove that he had formerly committed a blunder in 

 referring the fragment of a tooth, to an extinct boar with the name 

 of Eusyodon maximus (Proc. 1886, 37), which is only part of the 

 lower tusk of the rhinoceros. A tooth from the same locality, 

 sent him by Dr. J. C. Neal of Archer, Florida, indicates a species 




310 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



of Hippotherium different from H ingenuum (Proc. 1885, 83), and 

 also seems sufficiently distinct from the corresponding tooth of the 

 many other species of the genus elsewhere found in America, to ren- 

 der it probable it pertains to an undescribed species. It is an upper 

 molar of an animal a]>proxiniating the Ass in size, and larger than 

 H. ingenuum. The triturating surface, represented in the accompa- 

 nying figure, exhibits a complexly folded condition of the enamel, 

 quite different from that of the latter,(com- 

 pare figure in Proc. 1885, 33). The spe- 

 cies may be named Hippotherium plica- 

 tile. Three lower molar teeth according in 

 size with the upper one were also received 

 from Dr. Neal. An astragalus and frag- 

 ments of several other bones contained in 

 the former collection accord in size with 

 /a 1/ the teeth of H. plieatile, while an astrag- 

 A^^^'^'K ^^\/ alus received from Dr. Neal accords in- 



"^ ^ i i ^ ^-""^^ size with the tooth of JEf. ingenuum. 



Comparative and other measurements are as follows :- — 



H. plieatile. H. ingenuum. 

 Upper molar, triturating surface : 



Breadth fore and aft 20mm 19mm. 



Breadth transversely 23 " 17 '* 



First lower molar : 



Breadth fore and aft 25mm 



Breadth transversely 14 " 



Intermediate lower molar : 



Breadth fore and aft 22mm 



Breadth transversely 12 " 



Astragalus: 



Breadth fore and aft 4Qmm S5mm 



Breadth transversely behind . 40 " 29 " 



October 18. 

 Mr. John H. Redfield, in the chair. 

 Nineteen persons present. 



October 25. 



The President, Dr. Jos. Leidy, in the chair. 



Twenty-four persons present. 



Preliminary note on a nexv mineral Species from Franklin, N. J. — 

 Prof. Geo. A. Koenig called attention to his recent examination 

 of a mineral from the above locality which has not been heretofore 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 311 



known. This mineral occurs in pale grayish yellow, stellate masses, 

 somewhat resembling karpholite or pyropliyllite. It is associated 

 with calcite. The stellate aggregation is readily friable as it breaks 

 into minute prismatic particles. Made into an artificial splinter, the 

 substance fuses in the oxydizing flame to a black glass. Heated in 

 a closed tube it yields abundant water at a red heat, changing its 

 color to chocolate brown. The water does not act acid, nor corrode 

 glass. Carefully dissolved in a borax bead, the latter remains color- 

 less at first, then gradually assumes the characteristic manganese 

 color. The powder dissolves in hot concentrated hydrochloric acid 



The specific gravity (determined with 



100-00 



The determination of iron was lost, its quantity is made up by the 

 difi'erence. Manganese is present as MnO ; (the peculiar behavior 

 in borax mentioned above, and the absence of any evolution of chlo- 

 rine, when dissolved in HCl are proofs of this assertion.) Calcium 

 is only present in traces and was weighed with the magnesia. 



If we calculate the molecular ratio of the oxyds we obtain 

 (MnO, WO, FeO, ZnO, MgO) : SiO' = 1 : 231 : 0-65 = 1-89 

 : 1 = 2 : 1. 



This is the ratio of an orthosilicate, and in fact is the molecule 

 of Tephroite, in which a considerable portion of manganese is re- 

 placed by water. That the water must be considered as basic, fol- 

 lows from the fact that none is expelled at 200° C. The low spe- 

 cific gravity is very extraordinary and seems to indicate a polymeric 

 condition of the molecule. The name Bementite is projDOsed for 

 this species. 



Remarks on Hydra : — Prop. Leidy remarked that in our fresh 

 waters there occur two well marked species of hydra, the one of a 

 bright green color, the other pale brownish or reddish. He contin- 

 ued, these, judging from descriptions and figures, appear to him to be 

 the same as the European species H. mridis and H. fusca. The late 

 Prof. L. Agassiz regarded them as different and named them H. 

 gracilis and H. carnea (Proc. Bos. Soc. Nat. Hist. 1850, 354.) 

 Familiar as he was with both the European and American animals 

 his opinion might be considered conclusive, but the only distinctive 

 character he assigns to each seems not to be correct. Of our green 

 hydra he observes that unlike the European it has the power of ex- 

 tending its body in a remarkable degree. Oj^posed to this view, 




312 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Rosel in 1755, represents H. viridls in the same condition and with 

 the arms in the same proportionately short state (Insecten Belustig- 

 ung, Theil 3, Tab. 88, Fig. 4.) In other characters, the speaker 

 found our green Hydi'a to accord with H. viridis ; and further in 

 respect to the sexual organs. Prof. Allen Thompson describes the 

 latter as producing a single ovary near the middle of the body and 

 two or three spermaries from the body just below the arms (Edin- 

 burgh Philos. Jour. 1847, 281.) The same condition he had ob- 

 served in our green hydra, as represented in the drawings exhibited. 

 As regards our brown hydra, Agassiz gives as the distinctive char- 

 acter, that it has very short arms while the European has long ones. 

 Ordinarily this appears to be the case, but on several occasions the 

 speaker had observed our brown hydra, after it had been kept some 

 time in an aquarium where there was comparatively little food, 

 elongate its arms, extremely attenuated, even to a length of three 

 inches. In this condition it closely resembled in appearance the 

 beautiful figure of H. Jusca in figure 1, plate 64. of the Regne Ani- 

 mal of Cuvier. 



He had the opportunity of seeing both the green and brown hy- 

 dra west of the Rocky Mts. and these lie found to accord in character 

 with our eastern forms. In specimens collected in a lake in the 

 Uinta Mts., Wyoming T., at 10.000 feet elevation, the brown hy- 

 dra at first was brick red with a brighter red head, but after keep- 

 ing it for a week, it assumed the pale brown hue as ordinarily ob- 

 served in the animal nearer hon;e. 



The characters of the two American forms as observed by him 

 are as follows : — 



Hydra viridis ? The green hydra. Animal bright grass green 

 sometimes paler. Body when modei'ately elongated cylindro-conical, 

 tapering towards the caudal end ; when contracted oval or spheroid , 

 when greatly extended linear cylindrical. Head conical. Arms 

 four to seven, commonly six, about half the length of the body, lin- 

 ear, capable of extension to about the length of the body or slightly 

 more. In the sexually mature state : — testes hemispherical sur- 

 mounted by a nipple-shaped prominence, situated on the sides of the 

 body just below the arms ; ovary single, projecting from near the 

 middle of the body and containing a single, spherical, white egg, en- 

 closed in a brownish covering. Animal usually three or four lines 

 long, capable of extension to twice the length or contracting to less 

 than a line. In ponds and ditches in the vicinity of Philadelphia 

 and other places, though not common. Observed on one occasion 

 in the sexually mature condition late in autumn. In the in- 

 dividuals observed the sexes were separate ; the males with the two 

 testes, and the females with a single ovary. The ovum measured 

 0-375mm in diameter. In the sexually mature H. viridis observed 

 by Prof A. Thompson, individuals were hemaphrodite while in 

 others the sexes were separate. 




1887.] NATURAL KCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 313 



Hydra fusca ? The browu hydra. Animal more robu.st than 

 the former, of the same shape and nifmber of arms, bnt with the 

 body less attenuated when extended and with the arms habitually 

 longer in proportion to the body, but capable of extension to six 

 times the length of the latter. Color usually pale brownish or red- 

 dish ; sometimes deejjer, sometimes paler. In ponds and common 

 on the under side of stones in the Schuylkill and Delaware Rivers, 

 in the vicinity of Philadelphia. Not observed in the sexually ma- 

 ture condition. The color of the animal in a measure appears to 

 depend on the nature of the food ; and it may become a bright red, 

 of variable tint, by feeding on similar colored entomostraca or in- 

 sect larvie (See Proc. 1880, 156.) From prolonged abstinence the 

 color fades and the animal becomes almost white. 



Craig D. Ritchie was elected a member. 



The following were ordered to be published : — 



21 




314 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



THE CLASSIFICATION OF THE POST-CEETACEOUS DEPOSITS* 

 BY PROF. ANGELO HEILPRIN. 



The point of first importance to determine is whether all the 

 deposits succeeding the Cretaceous period belong to a single major 

 system, or, as is generally recognized, to two distinct systems, the 

 Tertiary and Quaternary of geologists. It will probably be con- 

 ceded by all geologists that the only rational scheme of chronologi- 

 cal classification is that which can be made to be of universal ajDpli- 

 cation ; in other words, a system that applies equally to all countries. 

 In our present knowledge, but one such scheme of broad classifica- 

 tion is known — that which is based upon the rise and fall of success- 

 ive faunas. Granting a nearly equivalent development of life-forms 

 for the greater portion, if not the whole, of the earth's surface — a 

 condition which can now be satisfactorily demonstrated, or at least 

 demonstrated to a variation within narrow limits — it will be mani- 

 fest that we have in this development a true guage of chronological 

 relationship, and one that must be fairly exact in its application. The 

 grouping of systems will then be a mere deduction from the time- 

 record made to correspond to certain well-defined or rounded-ofif pe- 

 riods, so to speak, of fauual develoj^ment, whose existence is made 

 known to us through the dissimilarities of successive faunas. 



How much, or what amount of, dissimilarity is considered suffi- 

 cient to mark out distinct systems is a matter of little consequence 

 to the geologist, but where uniformity of classification is required, 

 naturally only equivalent terms, or terms of approximately equal 

 value, should be used. The greater number of the major geological 

 systems now recognized are delimited by faunal dissimilitudes of a 

 more or less definite measure, Avhich is indicated in the ratio of trans- 

 gressional forms uniting to the system below and to that above. 

 The present classification admits in a general way for each system 

 a faunal jDeculiarity measured in its lowest terms by some 35 or 40 

 per cent, and this classification has fairly met the demands of geol- 

 ogists in its application to almost all the entire series of sedimentary 

 rock deposits. Remarkably enough, in the case of the post-Cretaceous 

 deposits, whose classification has been effected probably by greater 

 niceties of percentage divisions than that of any other series, this meas- 



* Amplification of a report prepared, by request, for the American Com- 

 mittee of the International Congress of Geologists. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 315 



ure has been only loosely, or not at all, adhered to. What, it might 

 be asked, are the claims of the Post-Pliocene and recent formations 

 to being considered a distinct system ? Viewed in its faunal as- 

 pects, the question may be very readily disposed of: the formations 

 in question have no claim to such recognition. If the formations 

 from the Eocene to the Pliocene inclusive are justly considered to 

 constitute, by virtue of their faunal unity, a distinct system, tho 

 Tertiary, then manifestly the post-Tertiary (Post-Pliocene to recent) 

 must be a part of the same system, since its faunal ties unite it infin- 

 itely more closely with the more recent members of the Tertiary than 

 the individual members of the latter are united among themselves. 

 Thus the Eocene or Oligocene is further removed faunally from the 

 Miocene than the Pleistocene is from the Pliocene ; and the same rela- 

 tion holds with the Miocene and Pliocene. Lyell, himself the framer 

 of the now very generally accepted classification of the post-Cretaceous 

 deposits, admits that in the so-called Newer Pliocene deposits of 

 Sicily the percentage of recent molluscan forms rises as high as 90, 

 or even higher, consequently reducing the faunal peculiarity to less 

 than 10 per cent. In the Chillesford beds of Sufiblk, England, the 

 faunal peculiarity is reduced to about 15 per cent, and in the Nor- 

 wich or Fluvio-Marine Crag to 16 per cent. Again, the uppermost 

 of the Subaj^ennine deposits of Northern Italy, forming part of the 

 "Astian" series (Pliocene proper of CJapellini), have been shown by 

 Foresti to hold about 80 per cent of living forms, reducing, therefore, 

 the faunal peculiarity, in its lowest exiDression, to 20 per cent. On 

 the other hand, the deposits immediately underlying these, forming 

 still apart of the true Pliocene series — Foresti's horizon III — hold 

 barely more than 43 per cent of living forms, and are thus strongly 

 individualized by their favmal peculiarity, in so far, at least, as a 

 relationship with the overlying dejjosits is concerned, although 

 the ties with the deposits underlying (Mio-Pliocene of Capellini— 

 Messinian of Mayer) are much more intimate. Horizon II of For- 

 esti is characterized by some 39 per cent of living forms, and I by 

 nearly 31 per cent ; both of these divisions are by many Italian 

 geologists classed with the Miocene, which really appears to be their 

 true position, contrary stratigraphical evidence notwithstanding. 



Seeing how very closely the Pliocene fauna in its highest expres- 

 sion approximates the fauna of the present day (et conseq. the Post- 

 Pliocene fauna), and the broad latitude of peculiarity allowed it by 

 most geologists, it becomes interesting to inquire in how far similar 




316 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



conditions of relationship or divergence obtain among the older Terti- 

 ary deposits. It is well known to geologists that in most regions where 

 Tertiary deposits are developed, the faunal relationship existing 

 between the Eocene and Miocene series is a very restricted one ; in- 

 deed, in some regions it would appear that there is scarcely a single 

 species of fossil held in common by the two classes of deposits. This 

 is very largely the case in France, and perhaps more particularly 

 in the Eastern United States, where the respective faunas are 

 practically wholly distinct. It is true that, in some regions, a careful 

 analysis of the formations now frequently referred to the Olig- 

 ocene has shown a number of connecting forms, and has brought the 

 two formations in closer relationship with each other, but the uni- 

 ting bond, as compared with that which unites the Pliocene with 

 the Post-Pliocene, or the Tertiary with the post-Tertiary, is still ver}'- 

 weak. In the Oligocene (Vicksburg) deposits of the United States, 

 for example, it is doubtful if the number of transgressioual forms 

 uniting with the Miocene numbers more than six, and possibly not 

 that many, out of a total of some 150 species. 



These facts being admitted, it can scarcely be argued further that, 

 with our existing classification as a basis, there remains any valid 

 reason for separating, as a distinct system, the Post-Pliocene (post- 

 Tertiary) series from the Tertiary (Pliocene). It may, however, still 

 be contended that we allow too much latitude to the Pliocene, and 

 that with a proper restriction to boundaries in which the recent fiju- 

 nal element does not exceed 70 or 75 per cent, instead of rising to 

 •85 and 90, or more, room may be had for a major series with a 

 largely peculiarized fauna. But even with this limitation the fau- 

 nal break separating a post-Tertiary series from the upj^er member 

 •of the Tertiary (Pliocene), would scarcely be as great, and in most 

 cases not nearly so great, as that separating the Pliocene from the 

 Miocene, or the Miocene (or Oligocene) from the Eocene. 



Apart from the matter of mere numbers as indicating a lack of 

 of peculiarity in the post-Tertiary fauna, it may be urged that 

 there are yet certain elements in it which serve broadly to distin- 

 guish it from the faunas immediately preceding, and which would 

 entitle it to the claim of a true system-fauna. Thus, as has fre- 

 quently been claimed, we have here the first evidences of man, and, 

 therefore, the expression of a so-called "Psychozoic" era; the remains 

 of a remarkable series of large edentate animals — Megatherium, Mylo- 

 don, Megalonyx, Glyptodon, etc. — foreign to the earlier faunas, yet 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 317 



sufficiently abundant as a distinguishing element in the fauna of la- 

 ter date ; and finally, the elimination of certain faunal features of 

 the period preceding, which can be passed over without further notice. 

 As far as the occurrence of the giant Edentata and of certain other 

 associated animal forms — Toxodon, Macrauchenia — is concerned, it 

 maybe remarked that by many geologists and paleontologists the beds 

 containing their remains are referred to the Pliocene, and not to the 

 Post-Pliocene, period ; and we have now the unmistakable evidence 

 of somewhat similar, or at least related, forms being found in the 

 Miocene and Pliocene deposits of the Western United States. Nor, 

 even if w^e admit that these remarkable forms are exclusively Post- 

 Pliocene, can it be assumed that they are in themselves sufficient to 

 distinguish a fauna, the less so as their remains have only been 

 found in a comparatively limited portion of the earth's surface, and 

 have yielded no substitutes elsewhere. 



The case of man's appearance is equally inadmissible as a factor 

 in the question, since, in the first place, it is now practically certain, 

 even if positive proof in this direction is still wanting, that he al- 

 ready existed during the close of the Tertiary period, and not 

 improbal^ly even at a much earlier date. Furthermore, his ad- 

 vent, looked at purely from the zoological stand-point, could be 

 no more a distinguishing feature in a fauna than would be the 

 advent of Di'i/opitheciis or Hippopotamus. Nothing can be more 

 illogical than the assumption that because man is of all importance 

 in the faunal element of to-day, judged from the stand-point of our 

 own capricious opinions, he is of equal importance when measured 

 by the purely zoological standard. Equally illogical is the assump- 

 tion of a Psychozoic age as distinguished from any of the ages pre- 

 ceding. 



Having, as I believe, satisfactorily shown that the Post-Pliocene 

 series of deposits, which include the "Pleistocene," "Glacial" and 

 "Recent" of most geologists, cannot be separated as a distinct system 

 from the Tertiary, it becomes necessary to find a common name un- 

 der which all these series of deposits can be included. The term 

 Kainozoic (Cenozoic) or Tertiary, corresponding to Mesozoic or 

 Secondary, and Palseozoic or Primary, might be conveniently retained^ 

 and its application so enlarged as to embrace both the Tertiary and 

 Quaternary in use at present — Quaternary, of necessity, completely 

 dropping away. 



It now remains to determine of what relative values are the major 




318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



divisions of the Kainozoic or Tertiary. It will probably be admit- 

 ted by most geologists that the divisions pre-Glacial (Pleistocene), 

 Glacial, and Recent are merely sub-groups of a single major forma- 

 tion, for which the familiar term Post-Pliocene might be conveniently 

 retained. ■ Its value may be accepted as being approximately equiv- 

 alent to Pliocene, Miocene, Oligocene, or Eocene, although the val- 

 ues of these last differ somewhat among themselves. Indeed, it is 

 not a little difficult to determine what precise significance is to be 

 attached to these divisions of the Tertiary, whether they are of equiv- 

 alent value with the (generally so considered) corresponding terms 

 of the Mesozoic — Cretaceous, Jurassic, etc. — and Paleozoic series — 

 Carboniferous, Devonian, etc — or not. In most geological tables they 

 are accorded this value, but it is more than doubtful if they are enti- 

 tled to it. Probably but few geologists will deny that the Post-Pliocene 

 and Pliocene are much more intimately related to one another than 

 are 'the Devonian and Silurian, the Devonian and Carboniferous, or 

 the Jurassic and Cretaceous. And a similar intimate relation holds 

 by comparison between the Eocene and Oligocene. The Post-Plio- 

 cene and Pliocene, again, appear in most cases to enjoy a much 

 closer affiliation than exists between the latter and the Miocene, and 

 similarly, the bond of union uniting the Eocene Avith the Oligocene 

 is greater than that which holds the latter to the Miocene. So that 

 while it may be impossible to attach absolute values to the terms or 

 periods marked off in Tertiary chronology, it appears to the present 

 writer more in consonance with existing facts, and as a stricter 

 parallel to the methods employed in pre-Tertiary terminology, to 

 group the entire series into three main sections, corresponding to as 

 many periods of geological time, as follows : 



Neogene f Post-Pliocene. 

 I Pliocene. 



Kainozoic 



or 

 Tertiary 



' Metagene — Miocene. 



-r, f Oligocene. 



j E'^^^^^n Eocene. 

 The classification of the Tertiary deposits, brought en rapport with 

 the classification of the pre-Tertiary series, and as based upon the 

 formations of the Atlantic slope of the United States, would then be 

 as follows : 




1887.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



319 



0)1 the value ofthefaunal element in geological chronology. Some 

 geologists, and notably those who profess but little knowledge of 

 paleontology, have attempted to make light of the evidence which 

 the zoological record brings to bear upon the classification of rock- 

 masses. Indeed, even at the present time, in some of our surveys 

 only a left-handed assistance is asked by the geologist-in-charge 

 from the paleontologist, with the result known to all who are capa- 

 ble of distinguishing between work that is done and that which still 

 requires to be done. It is true that in many tracts, and in tracts 

 even of wide area, the relative sequence of rock formations can fre- 

 quently be traced without the aid of paleontology, and a map, more 

 or less perfect, constructed on the details thus brought together. 

 But sooouer or later, if the comparative study of a region is neces- 

 sitated, reference must be had to the fossil remains, which alone serve 




320 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



to the geologist the data of an infallible chronology. The absolute 

 succession of equivalent faunas, or faunas of a practically iden- 

 tical facies, which has been demonstrated for the greater part of 

 the world, clearly establishes the claims of the faunal element as the 

 guide propre in the determination of chronology. It not only serves 

 to fix the relative sequence of formations for any one country, but 

 determines absolutely the position in time which these formations 

 occupy in a geological scale constructed for the entire world. 



It is, however, contended, and apparently with force, that certain 

 physical phenomena associated with the disposition of rock-masses 

 are as clearly consecutive in their occurrence as is the progression of 

 the life series, and might, hence, claim equal importance as chrono- 

 logical determinants of the geological scale. Thus, it is pointed out, 

 we have the world over a physical break of definite importance be- 

 tween the Paleozoic and Mesozoic series of rocks, and a somewhat 

 sim'ilar break — wanting in some parts — between the Mesozoic and 

 Kainozoic ; and, again, minor breaks between the lesser formations. 

 But how could the equivalence of these breaks be determined were 

 it not for the predetermination of age through the fixunal remains ? It 

 might be assumed, where a deposit of a definite or special litholog- 

 ical character can be continuously followed, such as coal or the chalk 

 of the Cretaceous period, that we are furnished with certain distinct- 

 ive data which here preclude the possibility of mistaking the act- 

 ual equivalence ; that, for example, where we recognize the break 

 following the chalk in England we recognize a similar break in 

 France and Belgium, and likewise the same for the coal. But 

 by what method, other thaji the paleontological one, could the post- 

 Cretaceous break be identified or correlated in regions, such as the 

 Eastern United States, where the true chalk is wanting, and where 

 the beds representing it could, from lithological character, about as 

 well be taken to represent an older member of the series to which 

 they belong as a newer one ? 



The notion held by some geologists that the true determinants of 

 a formation — or, more properly speaking, the true measure of geo- 

 logical time, is found rather in the lithological than in the paleonto- 

 logical record, can not for a moment stand the test of a logical in- 

 quiry. To submit, for example, that the matter of continuous sed- 

 imentation, or the absence or presence of conformability, or the ex- 

 istence or non-existence of a physical (lithological) break, can in 

 any way affect a time-record based upon the uninterrupted succession 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 321 



of progressive faunas, requires for its acceptance facts of a very 

 different character from any that geology has thus far brought for- 

 ward. It is true that geologists may have erred in locating or defin- 

 ing their time-periods (or formations), and, doubtless, more accur- 

 ate research will alter, or comj^letely obliterate, much that has been 

 done in the way of chronological classification, but to maintain, as 

 some geologists would lead us to believe, that the Cretaceous and 

 Tertiary formations (or periods) no longer exist as such by virtue 

 of the discovery of a series of intermediate connecting beds ; or that, 

 for a somewhat similar reason, the Oligocene formation has given 

 up its right to existence independently of the Eocene, is main- 

 taining a position which no geologist who has examined into the 

 premises will be willing to concede. We may as well admit that 

 the various periods recognized in human history do not exist because 

 they can be continuously traced without break of any kind ; and 

 similarly, centuries and years have no existence because they are 

 continuously consecutive. The geologist should bear in mind that 

 the time-periods (et conseq. the corresponding formations) are arti- 

 ficial constructions based upon equivalent phenomena for the entire 

 world, and serve only for the purpose of a universal classification. 

 The finding of an intermediate formation (period) in no way oblit- 

 erates the formations between which it may have been found, pro- 

 vided the limits of these formations have been satisfactorily deter- 

 mined ; for example, the discovery of a connecting series of deposits 

 between the true Cretaceous and Tertiary, uniting them by way of 

 continuous sedimentation, does 7iot render the entire series Cretaceo- 

 Tertiary, but the connecting beds are alone entitled to this designa- 

 tion. The Cretaceous and Tertiary sections of the series remain as truly 

 Cretaceous and Tertiary in a general scheme of classification as they 

 were before the intermediate beds were discovered. Manifestly, in 

 a complete geological scale, whose near realization is by no means im- 

 possible, all the various formations now recognized will be found 

 united to one another through the intermedium of connecting beds, 

 but certainly no geologist will go so far as to urge that, for this rea- 

 son, a classification of time, based upon some artificial basis of chro- 

 nology, will no longer be necessary or desirable. 



It has also recently been objected that a classification based upon 

 percentages of survivals is an absurdity, and wholly illogical. Why 

 illogical, it might be asked ? Surely, if there has been a general, 

 and nearly equivalent, faunal succession or development for the 




322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



world at large — a condition which can, be clearly demonstrated — 

 then, manifeietly, the ratio of survivals must .be a definite measure 

 of this development ; and if this is the case, it must, necessarily, 

 prove the safest guide in the delimitation of chronological bounda- 

 ries. Were it possible to definitely determine the proportion of sur- 

 vivals, or what is practically equivalent to the same thing, determine 

 the amount of actual faunal peculiarities, by specific determinations 

 made with equal care for all countries, we would tlien have, and 

 only then, a rational basis for a systematic classification applicable 

 to the whole world. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323 



CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE LIFE-HISTOEIES OF PLANTS. 

 BY THOMAS MEEHAN. 



Amphicarpcea wonoica. — " Flowers of two kinds — those of the 

 upper many-flowered racemes perfect and petaliferoiis, but seldom 

 maturing fruit, those near the base of the stem on prostrate branches 

 imperfect, but usually fertile." Thus writes Torrey and Gray, and this 

 I think is usual experience. Mr. Darwin, says in "Forms of Flowers" 

 "In three of the genera (Leguminosce known to produce cleistogamic 

 flowers) namely Vicia, Amjihicarpcea, and Voandesia, the cleisto- 

 gamic flowers are produced on subterranean stems. The perfect 

 flowers of Voandesia, which is a cultivated plant, are never said to 

 produce fruit, but we should remember how often fertility is affected 

 by cultivation." (Chap. VIII, p. 327) "Although cleistogamic 

 flowers never fail to yield a large number of seeds, yet the plants 

 bearing them usually produce perfect flowers, either simultaneously 

 or more commonly at a diflferent period, and these are adapted for 

 or admit of cross-fertilization" (ibid p. 340). 



I had often gathered the seeds, near the ground on plants growing 

 in shaded woods and thickets, and supposed I was familiar with it. 

 In December of 1886, walking along the banks of the Wingohoc- 

 cing creek, which runs through my farm, I noted quantities of dry 

 legumes on dead vines that had profusely covered masses of black- 

 berry bushes. I could have gathered pounds of seed. I had never 

 seen Amphicarjjcea in this condition, and was so completely off^ my 

 guard, that I was amazed, on a package being returned from Prof. Asa 

 Gray marked "Amphicarjicea monoica." I decided to watch the behav- 

 ior of the plants more closely another year. 



I now find the petaliferous flowers on these plants abundantly 

 fruitful. In what may be termed the more vigorous racemes, the 

 two lowermost flowers either have no petals, or have but a small 

 vexilla projecting a little beyond the calyx. The next half dozen 

 flowers, are perfect in every respect, and are fertile. The succeed- 




324 



PROCEEDINGS OF TPIE ACADEMY OF 



[1887. 



Fig. 4. 



ing flowers usually fall without perfecting a legume. It may be 



noted that the legumes and calyx 

 are different in these two instances, 

 Fig. 1, shows the petaliferous and Fig. 

 2 the apetalous, forms. Thus we 

 have three forms of legumes on the 

 one plant, the hypogeous, which is 

 short, thick and roundish at the end, 

 Fig. 4, and these two now described. 

 The apetalous flowers can be 

 scarcely classed as cleistogene, for 

 there is certainly no pollen in many 

 of them. In the few score I ex- 

 amined at this time, a few undeveloped stamens could be detected 

 here and there. In the absence of positive demonstration, I should 

 rather regard these as pistillate flowers, receiving, their pollen 

 from the petaliferous ones. 



I do not find the flowers are adapted to cross-fertilization, except 

 in the mouo3cious manner indicated. In the petaliferous cases the 

 flowers are diadelphous — one stamen being wholly distinct from 

 the rest. These are thoroughly united into a tube for very nearly 

 their full length, little more than the connective of the anthers being 

 free. The pistil, running up this tube, is abovit the exact length, 

 and the stigma is imbedded in the thick mass of stamens, and com- 

 pletely covered by own-pollen. It is evident that no foreign pollen 

 can possibly reach the stigma. So tightly held together is the mass of 

 filaments, that when the fertilized pistil conmiences to expand, the 

 ovarium bursts out at the base of the column, and as 

 it grows, draws down through the staminate column, 

 the style, this giving the stigma another full dose of 

 its own-pollen. (Fig. 3.) It is a remarkable adapta- 

 tion for self fertilization. Besides this close cover- 

 FiG. 3. ing of the stigma by the stamens and column, the keel 

 embraces the stamens so closely that even the "tickling" of the flower 

 with a pin, simulating the action of an insect, flxils to set them free. 

 As soon as the ovarium begins to grow, and the flowering stage has 

 reached the period illustrated in Fig. 3, the petals fall apart, and 

 the pollen is liberated for the wind to carry it elsewhere. 



Persistent watching failed to note any insects at work, but numer- 

 ous blossoms of Impatlens fulva, possibly attbrdedthe greater attrac- 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 325 



tions at the time of my observations. The bruised petals of Am- 

 phicarjxjea, showed that, at some time dui'ing the day or night, in- 

 sects were at work on the flowers. 



The large vigorous blossoms on these plants were of a brilliant 

 purjile. The plants which I have seen with whitish-yellow flowers, 

 in other localities, grow weaker than these. They also produce 

 legumes from apetalous flowers on the climbing stems, but the local- 

 ity is not near enough for me to watch, to see whether the petali- 

 ferous flowers bear freely or not. 



Fruiting as these flowers do, on the climbing branches, at least, 

 there are two-thirds fall without seeding. This cannot be from im- 

 potency of the pollen, or none would seed. Few leguminose plants, 

 even when exposed to cross-fertilization, perfect more than a small por- 

 tion of their flowers. Failure is from too great a draft on the nutritive 

 powers of the plant. So many flowers cannot be properly fed, though 

 properly fertilized by pollen. The remarks of Mr. Darwin on Voande- 

 sia, are no doubt just, changing the word cultivation so as to read "we 

 should remember how often fertility is att'ected by circumstances." 



I have already placed on record that the petaliferous flowei's of 

 Viola cuGxdlata rarely produce seed under ordinary circumstances, 

 but freely do so when the plant is growing on a dry rockery. 



The points I regard as rendered certain by these observations are : 



1. That the climbing stems, as well as the trailing ones, of Amphi- 

 carpcea bear apetalous flowers freely. 



2. That these flowers produce a third form of leguuie. 



3. That the petaliferous flowers, under circumstances favorable to 

 nutrition, bear legumes as freely as leguminous plants generally. 



4. That the petaliferous flowers are adapted solely to self-fertiliza- 

 tion, and I think the probability is developed : 



That the apetalous flowers are often fertilized by pollen from the 

 petaliferous ones ; and, so far the plant is arranged for as much 

 cross-fertilization as other montecious plants receive. 



A contribution to the life history of Cephalanthus occidentalis. — 

 The pistils of Cephalanthus occidentalis are exserted more than an 

 inch beyond the flowers, and as there are usually from one hundred 

 to three hundred flowers in the button-like head, the mass has a well 

 known trichodic appearance. I had never been able to see these 

 extending themselves. The flowers were always either closed or fully 

 expanded wath the pistils to their full length. Satisfied that the 

 opening took place during the night, I cut a few on the evening of 




326 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Aug. 1st. and placed them in a glass of water in my library, and 

 watched their behavior. 



The unopened flower, at 7 P. M., is very interesting from a small 

 tooth bearing a black gland, seemingly situated in the axis between 

 the lobes. It is really on the left hand side of "each lobe, and gives 

 to each division when carefully separated the outline of a mitten, 

 where in covering the hand the thumb only is free. At 8 P. M. 

 the lobes have parted, and what one would take to be a pair of uni- 

 ted sagittate anthers, covered with pollen, have advanced just their 

 length above the corolla-lobes. At 8'5, this length is doubled. The 

 same progression continued till 8"30 when growth ceased, the slender 

 "filament" having grown six lines in thirty minutes. 



Examining next the four anthers in the open flower, they were found 

 apiftarently destitute of pollen, and, remembering that systematists had 

 found a close relationship between Rubiacece and Compositce, the idea 

 suggested itself that the stamens in the corolla were sterile, and that 

 in some unaccountable manner two stamens had become as entirely 

 consolidated with the style as in Orchidece, and that only two fer- 

 tile anthers were left, which had united and formed a cap wholly 

 covering the stigma. Acting on the suggestion a pair of fine tweezers 

 were placed under the seeming anthers, and a gentle lift took it oflf", 

 as if it were a thimble in miniature, leaving a clear greyish-white 

 ovate stigma behind. The sagittate form of an anther is so plain, 

 and the four angles that these would make united back to back so 

 apparent, that I am satisfied no one, at first thought, would take them 

 for anything else than as described. Full of enthusiasm over the 

 mystery I sent some to my friend Mr. Sereno Watson, to learn what 

 he would think of the "missing link" in this pair of monodelphous 

 anthers. His reply that he found some grains of pollen in the true 

 anther sacs, and only pollen on the stigma, led me to look into the 

 matter again, and I found he Avas right. The four anthers mature 

 before the pistil takes its rapid start. At anthesis the anthers are 

 pressed firmly over the stigma. When the growth of the pistil oc- 

 curs, the stigma wipes out, almost clean, the entire mass of pollen, 

 and so nicely as to retain the form of the anther lobes on the stigma 

 as the style develops. 1 have since found that this simulation of the 

 form of real anthers is not seen in the open air. The motion of the 

 atmosphere or possibly the jar from the visits of nocturnal insects 

 gives a rounded form to the stigma-covering mass. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 327 



After twenty four hours, a portion of the clear stigma is seen above 

 the mass of j)ollen, showing that the stigma expanded a little after 

 the growth of the style had been completed. 



I think it is conceded that plants have not a time for the opening 

 of flowers from which they never depart, and that exceptions have 

 been noted in even very regular habits. But it may be stated in a 

 general way that the flowers of this Cephalanihus open rapidly, soon 

 after dark, and never during the da}'^ time. 



The odor of the flowers is singularly grateful. They are visited 

 by large numbers of insects for their nectar day and night. No 

 pollen gatherers seem to work on them. There is indeed no chance 

 to collect it from the stigma, no platform affords a facility for stand- 

 ing during collection. The pollen remains on the stigma till the 

 whole dries away. It is one of the most complete adaptations for 

 self-fertilization known to me outside of the Cleistogene class. 



Interested in noting how this absolute in-and-in breeding affected 

 productiveness, I subsequently found the flowers remarkably fertile. 

 Numerous seeds were in every head examined. Carefully dissecting 

 one, I found it had 279 flowers, of these 225 perfected seeds, and 

 only 54 failed. 



In describing Cephalanihus ocddentalis in Flora Cestrica, Dar- 

 lington describes the flowers as "five lobed ;" most other botanists 

 "four-parted." My flowers were mostly four, but many five-parted. 



The glands between the lobes of the corolla appear to have been 

 unnoticed. That the receptacle is "filiferous" has long been observed 

 (Loureir's Flora of Cochin China, 1788), and Gray (Synoptical 

 Flora of North America 1884) notes that these "setiform bractlets" 

 between the flowers are glandular-capitate. Donn (Dichlamydeous 

 Plants, 1834) notes "in the American species glands none in calyx 

 or corolla." They are so easily noted in these specimens before me, 

 that it is singular they should have been over-looked. There 

 are four of these "setiforme bractlets" at the base of each floret, and 

 they are slightly squamiform at the base. They are nearly alternate 

 with the lobes of the calyx, starting from a little to one side of the 

 sharp angle that terminates at the base of the division of the calyx. 

 The setiform bractlet is just the length of the tube of the calyx, and 

 if adherent to the calyx, the gland would be just where it is sit- 

 uated in the lobes of the corolla. No one can fail to see the gland 

 on the corolla is the analogue of that on the setiform bractlet. 

 We have no hesitation in concluding that there is primarily another 




328 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



series of bractlets between the calyx and corolla, and that they have 

 become confluent with the corolla. On this theory the lobes of the 

 corolla should be opposite and not alternate with those of the calyx. 

 After this theory had suggested itself, examination of the flowers 

 showed it was correct. The lobes of the corolla are opposite the 

 lobes of the calyx. 



The close relationship of Rubiacete to Compot^itfe has often been 

 remarked on. There are some correspondences in these observations 

 worthy of note: — 



Mr. Darwin remarks (Effects of Cross and Self-fertilization, p. 

 173, 1877) that "Coinposike are well adapted to cross-fertilization," 

 and Professor Asa Gray {America^i Agrictdturist) adopts the same 

 view, referring to the ray-florets as if they were flags to attract in- 

 sects. Adaptation, is however, chiefly inferred from the fact that 

 the stigma, pushed up through the column of anthers, and cov- 

 ered with pollen, generally cleaves at the summit. The interior 

 faces thus seem destitute of pollen, and must receive it from some 

 external agency. The author of the present paper has, however, 

 shown by careful observation on the flowers of Chicory, that the 

 pollen grains fall into the cleft as the lobes of the stigma diverge. 

 Many experiments by enclosing flowers of different genera in fine 

 gauze, resulted in the florets seeding just as well as when exposed 

 to the visits of insects. He has, therefore, always contended that 

 the supposed arrangements for cross-fertilization in Composite were 

 deceptive, and that the species are generally closely self-fertilizers. 

 In further support of this view he has called attention to the fact 

 that in plants conceded to be dependent mainly on external aid for 

 pollen, a large number of flowers never get fertilized at all, while in 

 self fertilizers failure rarely occurs. Compositdi come squarely into 

 this class. The hermaphrodite florets rarely — one might also add, 

 if ever — fail to perfect their seed. The remarkable fei'tility of the 

 self-pollenized florets in the heads of Cephalanthus, deserve to be 

 noted in correspondence with the self-pollenized florets of Compositce. 



The "bractlets" at the base of the flowers, are the analogues of 

 the scales on the receptacles of Compositce: 



The bractlets, or a cycle of floral parts similar to and succeeding 

 bractlets, unite with the corolla-tube, and form intra-lobular teeth 

 in Cephalanthus. May not certain forms of seta (Hellcmthus, He- 

 liopsis, etc.) be bractea that have become confluent with the calyx, 

 their a})ices forming the setaceous teeth ? It is difficult to determine 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 329 



this point from the want of corresporidence in number (abortion ?) 

 of some of the parts; but it is worthy of note that in the two genera 

 just named, and others, where these teeth exist, a tooth is always 

 alternate with the main "lobe" that distinguishes the ray from the 

 tubular floret. 



I think it will be conceded that, given a very little arrestation, de- 

 velopment, union or separation of parts as we find them in Cephal- 

 anthus, it would not be difficult to construct a Composite flower. 



Amorpha caneseens, Nutt. — Amorpha fruticosa, has leaves gland- 

 ular pellucid punctate, the dots being irregular in size. The legumes 

 are covered by very large glands, also irregular in size. In the 

 leaves of Amorpha caneseens the pellucid dots are also irregular, and 

 in many leaflets so indistinct th-at one should scarcely note their ex- 

 istence, only that we are looking for them. In the legumes, however, 

 the glands are large and abundant, and readily observed through 

 the dense mass of woolly hair that envelopes them. The jioiut is 

 worth noting. The carpels, morphologically leavfes, usually have 

 many characters suppressed in the progress of development from the 

 primordial leaf to the carpel ; but here we find characters existing in 

 a marked degree in the leaves of an allied species, and nearly sup- 

 pressed in its own foliage, reappearing as a strong feature in the 

 legume. 



During anthesis many interesting points present themselves. The 

 anthers are fully formed and exhibit their yellow surfaces through 

 the bursting sepals, when they seem to have their further growth 

 arrested, and the ];)istil only elongates. It extends to double the 

 length of the calyx. This is the work of the first day of opening. 

 The next day the stamens lengthen, but one at a time. As soon as 

 the first one has reached the exact length of the pistil, another stai'ts 

 into growth, then another, until towards the end of the day's work 

 all are of about equal length. Soon after reaching its final growth 

 the anther sacs burst, and thus one after another, in regular succes- 

 sion, the f)ollen is ejected from the cells. On the third day the 

 pistil recurves, the apex forming a right angle Avith the base, and 

 usually having its stigmatic apex in among the withered stamens of 

 the flowers lower on the spike. All this time, the only petal pos- 

 sessed by the flower, the vexillum, has remained nearly quiescent. 

 It projects its beautiful blue tint just a little beyond the calyx, the 

 second day, after the last stamen has made its growth ; but it is not 

 till the third day that it makes a growth in earnest, when it goes on 

 22 




330 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



rapidly, not, however, reaching quite the length attained by the sta- 

 mens and pistil. 



The observation worth recording here is that the bright corolla 

 is often referred to in modern times, as being colored in order to 

 attract insects to aid in the work of cross-fertilization. The col- 

 ored corolla does not appear here until fertilization has been effected, 

 which is evidenced by the recurving of the pistil. The orange-gold 

 of the anthers would of themselves be sufficiently attractive ; and the 

 later effect of the vexillum, wholly superfluous, if mere attraction 

 w^ere the sole end nature had in view. Although the pistil matures 

 a whole day before the stamens mature, the stigma receives the pol- 

 len often from the stamen of the same flower, or from those in the 

 immediate vicinity, and which matured the day before, which is self- 

 fertilization, — cross-fertilization being, according to Darwin, the re- 

 ception of pollen from another plant. The flowers seem very grate- 

 ful to the pollen gathering insects. After cleaning out the orange- 

 colored pollen, from the woolly linings of the cell, by the insect, the 

 empty white anthers, gave an additional interest to the orange and 

 blue of the more perfect flowers. 



The explanation of the late growth of the vexillum is evidently 

 that growth is reflex — from the central axis downwards, as we see 

 in Liatris and other Comjjositce. After the axis, as represented by the 

 pistil, has finished its groAvth, the sjiiral uncoils downward, and per- 

 mits of the axial growths that the floral parts represent, beginning 

 with the most advanced stamen, and running back to the petal, 

 Avhich of course would be the outermost verticil in the coil. 



Oxybaphus Mrsutus — Oxybaphus, says an old writer of the Linnean 

 School "is a genus of the class Triaiidria." "The only known species 

 is Oxybaphus viscosus. It is a native of Peru, and is nearly allied to 

 MirabiUs, under which genus it is ranged by Cavanilles, but was 

 made a distinct genus by L'Heritier, on account of its only having 

 three stamina, and the calyx enlarged and peltate, attending the 

 fruit." In those times to have three stamens was an essential char- 

 acter of the genus. In Gray's 3fanual, 0. nydagineus being the 

 only one described, the genus has "stamens mostly three." In Coul- 

 ter's Flora of Colorado "stamens usually three" is the record. As it 

 is stated of Mirabilis by Coulter "stamens usually five," it is evident 

 modern authors, equally with the founder of the genus, look to the 

 number of stamens as in some measure a generic character. So far 

 as I can find in works to hand, the number of stamens is not specially 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 331 



noted in any description, except in the one case of 0. eoccineus in 

 Hothrock's Report of the Wheeler Exjiedition. Choisey in DeCand- 

 olles Prod/'omws has "stamina 5" as one of the characters of the whole 

 genus. In view of this uncertainty it is worth placing on record, 

 that 0. hirsutus, Sweet, always within my observations, has five 

 stamens. I have had plants growing from seed gathered by me in 

 Southern Colorado a number of years ago, and the plants uniformly 

 have five stamens. 



The flowers always open towards evening. On August 10th, I sat 

 myself to watch their unfolding. At 4 P. M. one could just trace 

 the pink color line, with a portion of a filament discernible ; by 4*30 

 the stamens and j^istil were fully exserted, over an inch in length 

 beyond the perianth, the segments of the perianth were partially ex- 

 panded, but were crumpled, and by 5 these wercfully expanded, and 

 the flower perfectly in bloom. Hundreds opened, but the anthesis of 

 all was simultaneous. The involucre is three-flowered, but one 

 opens first, and Ave may call this a central one. The two lateral 

 open together the next day. 



It is interesting to Avatch the expansion of the floAver. The sta- 

 mens in A'ernation are incurA^ed. The anther seems to be caught 

 in the imperfectly open flower. The filament, as it elongates, forms 

 a loop. When the half hour of growth has been nearly reached, 

 the perianth by that time expanding a little and, freeing the anther 

 from pressure, the incurA^ed portion springs suddenly forAvard, and 

 iustantaneously Ave haA^e the long, straight, exserted stamen. In all 

 that I noted the stamens proceeded thus : one at a time succes-siA^ely, 

 the whole five occupying about two minutes to straighten out. 



The flowers continue open all night ; but commence to close by 

 day-light in the morning. 



I have noted on other occasions that some plants do not keep 

 good time any more than some Avatches. I thought to repeat the 

 observations on the evening of the 11th. Strange to say at 5 P. M. 

 there were no more signs of opening than on the preceding day at 

 4. At 6 P. M. only one flower Avas open. At 7'o0 they were all 

 fully open as the day before at 5. It Avas a A'^ery dark and cloudy 

 afternoon, heaA'y rain Avith lightning at 6"80. As most evening 

 flowers seem faA^ored by moisture and darkness, this contrary ob- 

 servation is worth recording. 



The growth of the pistil is coincident with that of the stamens, 

 and is of equal length. The anther cells burst at once on the stamen 




332 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1887, 



reaching its full length. The pollen is remarkably large, there be- 

 ing only about 25 grains in each cell. The stigma seems receptive 

 co-incident with the maturity of the pollen. There is nothing to 

 suggest any special arrangements for cross-fertilization. The flow- 

 ers are odorless. Moths visit the flowers freely. The moth remained 

 a long time feasting on a single flower, generally from two to three 

 minutes. It used the mass of filaments with the style for a platform 

 on which to work for the nectar at the base of the style. Its mo- 

 tions would tend to shake the pollen out into the flower's own stigma 

 and aid in self-fertilization. Large numbers of the flowers on my 

 plants are barren. Many have not one, some have but one, and 

 rarely are there two seeds in a single involucre. 



Besides the three flowers that are produced in each involucral 

 cup, a branch occasionally proceeds from the same axis. The flow- 

 ers are usually regarded as apetalous, but a close examination of an 

 opening flower is strongly suggestive of an amalgation of the corrol- 

 line and calycine whorls in one perianth. As the flower is opening 

 the bud presents what a superficial examination would regard as 

 a five-cleft calyx, with green-lance-linear and hairy segments, and 

 it would be a surprise to an original observer to find a mono-pet- 

 alous corolla, wholly in one piece with what appeared to be a dis- 

 tinct calyx. At the apex of one of the segments, and which by the 

 way are alternate with Avhat should be petals, there are two small 

 pin-like, white glands ; at the apex of another one gland ; and at the 

 apex of a third a small and imperfect one. This indicates that the 

 elementary parts forming the floral whorl did not coil rapidly on its 

 spiral course ; as also does the successive development of the sta- 

 mens ; we may reasonably look for some irregular flowers among its 

 congeners. 



Irrltahility in the Stamens of Echinocactus. — It has been long 

 known that the stamens of many Opuntias are irritable or sensitive 

 when fully expanded under a hot sun. I have placed on record 

 that this character extends to other allied genera. This summer I 

 noted that the stamens of Echinocactus Ottonis, were particularly 

 irritable. 



Diurnal opening of the floioers of Magnolia glauea. — My brother 

 Joseph called my attention to the fact, that cut flowers of Magnolia 

 glauea, in water in our office, opened at 4 P. M. I found this to be the 

 case also with plants growing in the open air, no matter whether the 

 sun was shining, or the sky cloudy. They open at 4 P. M. but close 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 333 



again before nightfall. The next day at 4, they open again, the 

 anthers shed their pollen and then the petals close again. At 

 4 the third day they again expand, and continue expanded for some 

 days till they fade. 




334 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



NOTES ON THE ANATOMY OF ECHIDNA HYSTRIX. 

 BY HENRY C. CHAPMAN, M. D. 



The specimen of Echidna hystrix upon which the following 

 observations were made, lived in the gardens of the Zoological 

 Society of Philadelphia about six weeks, spending most of its time 

 entirely covered by the six inches of earth at the bottom of the cage. 

 Its habit of feeding was similar to that of the ant-eaters, the tongue 

 (PI. XIV, 2) being slender and projected through the maxillary 

 opening to the extent of about three inches. Under the artificial 

 conditions of confinement it appeared sluggish. During life it was 

 noticed that the position of the feet was such as to project the big toe 

 outward, the soles being turned upward and baclcAvard. 



A thick panniculus carnosus muscle covered the whole animal. 

 A long slender muscle arose from the lower ribs on each side and 

 was inserted in the soles of the anterior feet while a corresponding 

 muscle arose from the tuberosity of the ischium to be inserted in the 

 calcaneum. Otherwise there was nothing unusual about the mus- 

 cles of the extremities. Those of the fore limbs were, however, 

 enormously developed. 



The salivary glands, (Plate XIV, fig. 2, s,) were of large size, two 

 inches in length, with well developed ducts which terminated by 

 small openings in the floor of the mouth. The small intestines were 

 one hundred and two inches and the large, fifteen inches in length. 

 The latter terminated in the cloaca (PI. XV, %. 2, c.) At the 

 union of the small with the large intestines a short vermiform ap- 

 pendix was observed. The mucous membrane of the intestines 

 was smooth throughout its entire tract, no valvulae conniventes 

 being observed as in Orinthorhynchus. Peyer's patches were Avell 

 developed in the small intestines. 



Three vena cavae were present, two anterior and one posterior as 

 in marsupials. Reta mirabile were observed in the iliac and bra- 

 chial veins. The blood corpuscles were 3500 of an inch in diameter, 

 the blood itself being loaded with quadrilateral crystals. 



The spleen (PI. XV, 1.) was a triangular gland. The liver was 

 four lobed and was provided with a large gall bladder. The pancreas 

 was well developed, its duct, contrary to the usual arrangement, passing 

 into the iatestine at a point nearer the pyloric orifice than the 

 bile duct. The kidneys (PI. XV, 2, k^ were of equal size. The 




Proc.Acad,Nat.Sci.Phila(la. 1887 



PL XIV", 



E:.J. N, Del. 



Chapman on Echidna. 





ProcAcad.NatSci.Philada.JW. 



?IW. 



Chapraaa on Echidna. 





1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 335 



two ureters passed into the urogenital canal, the bladder opening into 

 the latter separately, as did also the vasa deferentia from the testicles. 

 While the anterior extremity of the urogenital canal thus received 

 the openings of the bladder, the ureters and the spermatic ducts, it 

 divided at its posterior extremity into two passage-ways, the posterior 

 of which led into the cloaca, the anterior into the peneal urethra. 



The penis lay next to the wall of the cloaca and was attached thereto 

 by fibi'ous tissue, the posterior ends being free and unattached to the 

 pelvis. The glands were composed of four mammilloid processes pro- 

 vided with minute papillae. The posterior orifice of the urethra was 

 probably pushed during coition towards the orifice of the spermatic 

 ducts so as to form a continuous canal with the latter, thus prevent- 

 ing the escape of semen into the cloaca. Is o" trace of a mammary 

 gland was found. 



The brain (PI. XIV, 1) differed from that of Orv it Jiorhynchus in 

 being much convoluted. As regards the corpora quadrigemina, the 

 nates were well developed but the lines of demarcation between them 

 and the testes and between the testes themselves were very obscure. 

 The corpus callosuni was developed only in its anterior portion. 

 The thalamus opticus and hippocampus major were remarkably 

 prominent. 



A little spur was present on the calcaneum as in Orinthorhynchus, 

 but the gland and duct with which it communicated were much 

 smaller and placed not so high up on the leg as in the latter. As 

 this spur was present only in the male it may be a sexual appen- 

 dage. The animal had been observed by Mr. A. E. Brown, the 

 superintendent of the garden, to clean its spines by means of its 

 hind limbs, and the secretion of oil from fhe gland which is dis- 

 charged through the spur may merely assist in this process. 



November 1, 1887. 



Mr. John H. Redfield, in the chair. 



Twenty-seven persons present. 



The death of Frederick Graf Marshall, a correspondent, was 

 announced. 



Note on the Sense of Direction in a Eiiropean Ant, Formica 

 rufa. — Dr. Henry C. McCook remarked that during the summer he 

 had made an observation upon the well known "horse ant", or 




336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Formica rufa of Great Britain. While visiting the Trosachs of 

 Scotland he found a number of nests of this species scattered through- 

 out the glen known as the Pass of Achray through which flows the 

 little Achray River, "the stream that joins Loch Katrine to Achray." 

 These nests are found on either side of the foot-walk which leads 

 from the Trosachs glen to "the sluices," as they are popularly called, 

 which regulate the stage of water in Loch Katrine. 



1. Structure of the Ant Hills — The mounds raised by the Rufous 

 ants are heaps of earth intermingled with chippage of various sorts; 

 they rise to the height of about three feet, and some of them are six 

 or seven feet in diameter across the base. They stand amid the 

 tall bracken which overhangs them, and at times almost conceals 

 them from the passer by. The surface of the mounds is covered with 

 bits of straw and leaves, stalks of grass and ferns and various 

 material of like sort which forms a quite decided thatch. Numbers 

 of openings appear upon the surface at irregular intervals from the 

 summit to the base, and in the afternoon at 4 o'clock the workers in 

 vast numbers were dragging the chippage back and forth apparently 

 engaged in closing the doors for the uight, although time did 

 not permit an observation of the actual closure. 



2. Character of Roads and Engineering Skill. — That which es- 

 pecially attracted Dr. McCook's attention was the character of the 

 roads leading from the ant hills to the various points in the sar- 

 rounding woods. These roads or trails were distinctly marked upon 

 the surface of the ground, having in places a width of from two to 

 four inches which was stained a dark brown or black, probably by 

 the formic acid exuded from the insects; the leaves and grass upon 

 which the trail was made we're pressed down and smoothed by 

 the constant action of innumerable legs upon the surface. So well 

 marked were the trails that even without the presence of the columns 

 of insects that thronged back and forth upon them, they were dis- 

 tinctly and easily traced. AVhile following up one of these roads 

 the observer was impressed by the fact that it showed scarcely any 

 deviation from a straight line. In order to test this matter more care- 

 fully, he selected a large mound from which three roads radiated. 

 These were all traced to their termination at three several oak trees, 

 up which the columns of ants ascended in search of food supply 

 from numerous aphides which infested the branches of the trees. 

 The ant roads w'cre then carefully marked out by stakes stationed 

 at short intervals, a course which was made necessary b}^ the fact 

 that they were carried for considerable distances beneath the. tall 

 bracken, which had to be pushed aside in order to reveal them. 

 The result of his observations is as follows : 



Road No. 1 was 21 paces in length (about 65 feet) and was 

 carried in an almost jDCrfectly straight line from the nest to the 

 terminal tree. No. 2 was 23 paces in length, (about 70 feet). It 

 varied less than three inches from a direct line measuring from the 

 nest to a point within two feet of the terminal tree. There the 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 337 



column made a detour of about six inches from the straight line, but 

 an abandoned path, continuous with the main road, which had 

 apparently been used at a recent date, was traced for a considerable 

 distance further without any deflection. No. 3 was the longest road 

 of the three, being 34 paces in length. It extended for six paces in 

 a straight line from the nest, at which point it touched an old stump 

 Avhich evidently deflected the path at a slight angle. From this 

 point it was again continued in a nearly straight line as far as the 

 beaten foot-path through the wood. Here the ant trail was oblitera- 

 ted by the friction of passing human feet, but the ants themselves 

 thronged over the pathway in a column much broadened by continual 

 interference and loss caused by foot passengers. The trail was, how- 

 ever, resumed at a point nearly opposite that at which it touched 

 the path, and was continued again in a straight line six paces 

 further to the tree, where it terminated. When the entire 

 trail was staked oflT it was found that its terminus deviated less than 

 three feet from a straight line drawn from the point of departure at 

 the ant hill. The greater deviation in this case seemed evidently to 

 have been caused by the peculiar difhculties in the chosen track. 

 The three roads so radiated from the nest that they were included 

 within about one quadrant of a circle, of which the two shorter 

 trails might represent the radial boundaries of the quadrant, while 

 the longer trail was drawn nearly midway between the two. 



Taking the results of the three observations together it is mani- 

 fest that the ants showed an accurate sense of direction in marking 

 out and following their approaches to the trees. It would be scarcely 

 reasonable to attribute such mathematical accuracy as above shown 

 to mere accident. The roads in point of directness were as accurate- 

 ly laid doAvu as ordinary roads made by the engineering skill of 

 men. The skill of the ants was all the more apparent from the fact 

 that their paths were carried through the jungle of bracken and 

 various other wood plants. The same flict appears to indicate that 

 the insects could not have been largely directed by the sense of 

 sight.* It would })erhaps be idle to speculate upon the manner in 

 which this feat of emmet engineering was accomplished, as there 

 were no facts observed which give a clue to the mode of proceeding, 

 but the problem is one well worth study by naturalists on the 

 ground. 



3. Engineering of Texas Cutting Ajits. — Dr. McCook in this con- 

 nection alluded to an observation which has heretofore been placed 

 on record ' describing an underground route of the cutting ant of 

 Texas, Atta fervens. This route extended 448 feet, entirely beneath 

 the surface of the earth, at some places as deep as six feet, and hav- 



* The vision of ants is probably limited vvitliin a very short distance from 

 the eyes; under any circumstances, iheiefore, it could have but little influence in 

 determining such a phenomenon as here recorded. H. C. McC. 

 ^ See the author's Tenants of an Old Farm, p. 2()4; fig. 90. 




338 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



ing an average depth of eighteen inches. From the points at which 

 the ants came to the surface, the road was continued in a straight 

 line 185 feet further to a tree in a gentleman's private grounds 

 which the ants were engaged in defoliating. The entire length of 

 the roadway was thus 6(59 feet, and the path as laid out by a young 

 engineer who assisted in the observation, shows scarcely less deflec- 

 tion from a straight course than that of the Rufous ants recorded 

 in the above observation. 



4. Sentinels. — The longest of the three trails alluded to made by 

 the Scotch ants terminated upon an oak tree Avhich was also occupied 

 by a column of ants from a neighboring hill. The two columns 

 rigidly maintained their places on opposite sides of the trunk. 

 Sentinels were scattered along either margin of both columns and 

 these exhibited great watchfulness and sensitiveness to the approach 

 of any object. Dr. McCook on approaching his finger to these 

 sentinels observed that they seemed to perceive his finger Avhen it 

 reached a point an inch or an inch and a half distant from the 

 bark. At once the ants thrust out their antennae, extended their 

 heads, then the two front legs, and finally the middle legs thus 

 hanging to the bark of the tree by the hind legs alone, the abdomen 

 being slightly turned underneath the body as though prepared to 

 eject formic acid upon any adversary. In one case at least the ant 

 hung to the bark by one hind foot alone, extending the whole body 

 in a perpendicular direction from the surface of the tree. It presen- 

 ted a grotesque apjiearance, and exhibited every sign of eagerness 

 and vigilance in the discharge of its duty as Avatcliman. 



Several individuals were taken from one column and placed in 

 the line of march of the ants from the other nest. They showed the 

 usual evidences of strangeness and failed to fraternize, but on the 

 other hand no one was assaulted by the passers by, a toleration 

 worthy of note as showing some degree of comnnmity among the 

 various nests of the one species. 



The time which Dr. INIeCook could give to these observations was 

 limited to several hours of a summer afternoon, which he spent as a 

 tourist in this interesting mountain region, but they present some 

 conclusions which appear to be reasonably decisive, and which at 

 least may serve to stimulate further observations in the same line 

 extending over greater periods and including a greater number of 

 cases. 



November 8. 

 Mr. Charles Morris, in the chair. 

 Twenty-one persons present. 




1887.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 



November 15. 



339 



The President, Dr. Jos. Leidy, in the chair. 



Twenty-five persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication: — 



"Note on Achines lorentzi Weyenburgh." By David S. Jordan. 



Description of two new species of Fishes from South America." 

 By David S. Jordan. 



Geological Besults of the Boring of an Artesian well at Atlantic 

 City, N. J. — Mr. Lewus Woohnan stated that there Avas commenced 

 in the summer of 1886 at Atlantic City, N. J. an artesian well, the 

 drilling of which has been since continued with some intermission 

 until, at the present time, a depth of 1121 feet has been reached. 

 During a recent cessation in the work caused by delay in the re- 

 ceipt of pipe for tubing the well he had been permitted through the 

 courtesy of the gentlemen interested in the enterprise to turn over 

 and examine the sands, clays and marls accumulated in the dump 

 heap and had found many fossil representatives of life forms, 

 including a bone- — the articulating end of a femur or humerus of 

 an animal belonging to the Crocodilia, — presented by Dr. T. K. 

 Reed, and a few shells and fish teeth pi'esented by Jas. H. Moore, 

 engineer in charge. There have been obtained from the well 52 

 species in all, 42 being mollusks. Many of the smaller shells were 

 entire and quite perfect but most of the larger ones were fragmentary, 

 having been br(»ken in pieces by the drill. James H. Moore also 

 kindly furnished a minute description of the thickness and charac- 

 ter of all the sands passed through, by a careful examination of which 

 and a groui:)ing of the smaller seams with the larger ones that give 

 character to formations, the speaker had constructed the following 

 section : — 



Superficial Sands, Gravels 

 and Clays. Wood found 

 at the base. 



Black C'lays and Sands. 

 Bluish Clay. 

 Greenish Clays and Marls 

 with much comminuted 

 shell ; some shark teeth 

 and many seams of brit- 

 tle marly clay of gray 

 color. 



Blackish and brownish 

 sands. 



Sands. 



Clays 



Clays 

 and marls 

 with fossils 



Sands. 



First 



f 285 ft. 

 1 416 ft. 



285 ft. 



to 416 ft. = 131 ft. 



to 435 ft. 



19 ft. 



^ 435 ft. to 670 ft. = 235 ft. 



670 ft. to 691 ft. = 21 ft. 




540 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1887. 



Clays 

 with fossils 



Sands. 



Clays, 

 Marls. 



Sands. 



691 ft. to 722 ft. = 81 ft. 

 722 ft. to 806 ft. = 84 ft. 



806 ft. to 866 ft. = 60 ft. 



r 866 ft. to 939 ft. 

 ■I 939 ft. to 999 ft. 



73 ft. 

 60 ft. 



999 ft. to 1119 ft. = 120 ft. 



1119 ft. to 1121 ft. = 2 ft. 



Chocolate Clay. 

 Fossiliferous Clays and 

 sands ; shells and sharks 

 teeth. 



Non- fossiliferous sands, 

 alternating blackish, 

 whitish, and reddish 

 brownin color. 



Dark Marls and Clays. 

 Green marls (various 

 shades) and black marls. 

 Sands mostly yellowish 

 green and full of bar- 

 nacles. 



White Sands. Water 

 flowing to surface. 

 Total 1121 ft. 

 Prof Angelo Heilprin has kindly and very carefully examined 

 , and identified all the specimens of fossils. The speaker has placed to 

 the right of each in the following list, the range along the Atlantic 

 Seaboard where out-crops containing the same fossils have previously 

 been found — the names of the formation being those established by 

 Prof. Heilprin in his Tertiary Geology, in which the formation in 

 in the state of Maryland is divided into an older and a newer 

 group : — 



' Marylandian, Older Maryland grouj^. 



= Lower Atlantic Miocene. 

 Virginian, Newer Maryland group and deposits of 

 Virginia. 

 = Middle Atlantic Miocene. 

 Carolinian, Deposits of North and South Carolina. 

 = Ui^per Atlantic Miocene. 

 Anomia (probably ephippium). N. C. S. C. 



Miocene 



Area centenaria, 



Area subrostrata, 



Area (idonea^) 



Area (lienosal) 



Artemis {acetabulums^ 



Astarte compsonema, 



Astarte obruta, 



Astarte perplana, 



Astarte Thomasii, 



Cardita granmlata, 



Cardita arata, 



Crassatella melina, 



Corbula idonea, 



Corbula elevata; 



Cardium (probably laqueatun), 



N. J. Newer Md., Va., & S. C. 



Older Md. 



Newer Md., Va., N. C. 



Newer & Older Md., Va., N. C. 



N.J. 



Newer Md. 



Newer Md. 



N.J. 



Newer Md., Va., N. C, S. C. 



N. J. Newer Md., Va., N.C., S.C. 



N. J. Older Md., Va., N. C. 



Newer and Older Md. 



N. J. Older Md. 



N. J. Va. 




1887.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



341 



N.J. 



s. c. 



N.J. 



Newer Md. 

 N. J. Older 



S. C. 



Md. 



N. 



N. 



N. 



N. 



N. 



Newer Md.,Va.,N.C.S.C. 

 Va.. N. C. 



Newer Md., Va., N. C. 

 Older Md. 



Cytherea, 



Discina lugubris, 



Donax (variabilis^) 



Fulgiir, 



Lucina trisulcata, 



Mactra lateralis, 



Mactra ponderosa, 



Mytiloconcha incurva, 



Mytilus incrassatus, 



Mysia, 



Natica catenoides, 



Nassa trivittata, 



NuGula obliqua, 



Ostrea, 



Pecteu Madisonius, 



Pecten Humphreysii, 



Pecten vicenarius 



Perna maxillata, 



Tellina subreflexa, 



Tellina declivis. 



Turritella Gumberlandia, 



Turritella cequistriata, 



Turritella plebeia, 



Turritella (sp. not determinable), 



Turbinella Woodi, 



Venus. 



Barnacles, 



Femur or humerus, 



Tooth, 



Tooth Lamna compressa. 



Tooth Odontaspis, 



Tooth, species not determinable, 



Teeth Myliobates, 



Spine of Echinus, 



Dendrophyllia, 



Polyzoan, 



James H. Moore had noted the depth from which the specimens 

 furnished by him had been taken ; with this information and an ex- 

 amination of the sands of the dump and their contained fossils, it may 

 be safely concluded that of the above : — 



Turritella plebeia came from a depth of about 450 ft. 

 Corbula elevata came from a depth of about 730 ft. 

 Perna maxillata came from a depth of about 800 ft. 



The paleontological evidence indicates that the portion of the sec- 

 tion between 400 and 700 feet belongs to the Middle Miocene and 

 all below that to the Lower Miocene. 



About 15 of the above species, it is believed, have never before 

 been found in New Jersey. These are from the upper layers (Mid- 

 dle Miocene) which no doubt exist further back from the shore, say 



N. J. Older Md., Va. 



N.J. 

 N.J. 



Newer Md. 



N.J. 



Crustacea. 



Crocodilia. 



Gavial. 



Shark. 



Shark. 



Shark. 



Fish. 



Coral, 




342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



about 30 miles N. W., where they are buried beneath 50 to 100 

 feet of more recent Tertiary sands and gravels. 



Most of the other species (Lower Miocene) that have previously 

 been noticed in the state occur at Shiloh, near Bridgeton, in Cum- 

 berland County, while others are found in Salem County. The lower 

 strata from which they were obtained also probably exists in a direct 

 N. W. line 33 to 35 miles from Atlantic City ; but these are likewise 

 covered by more recent Tertiary strata. 



November 22. 

 Rev. Henry C. McCook, D. D., Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Twenty-eight persons present. 



Note on Cyrtophora bifurca and her cocoons, a New Orb-weaving 

 Spider. — Dr Henry C. McCook remarked that during a temporary 

 stay in Florida, April 1886, he found nested upon the porch of Dr. 

 Wittfeld's place, Fairyland, Merrit's Island, on the Indian River 

 a little way below Rockledge, a spider which appears to be new to 

 science. Its snare resembles that of Cyrtophora caudata, Hentz. It 

 also resembles that spider in the manner of hanging its cocoon sti'ing 

 in the vertical axis of its orb just above the hub. The character of 

 the cocoon, however, differs entirely from that of caudata. It is in 

 the shape of a somewhat irregular octogon, and is of a light green 

 color. The speaker had found as many as twelve cocoons in one 

 string overlapping one another in the manner which he had frequen- 

 tly observed with the cocoons of the Labyrinth spider, (Epeira 

 labyrinthea Hentz) and which may also be seen at times with the 

 cocoons of caudata, although for the most part, the latter are arran- 

 ged at intervals along the string. 



The cocoon strings collected varied in the number of cocoons 

 attached thereto, — probably according to the period of advancement 

 in the process of ovipositing on the part of the mother. Of the 

 specimens collected one string contained 14, another 12, and another 

 10 cocoons. They are bound together along one side by continuous 

 series of thick white threads which extend from the top to the bottom 

 of the string. Each cocoon consists of two jDarts which have evi- 

 dently been fastened together by a selvage. These parts present 

 the appearance of two dishes placed together edge to edge. They 

 are woven of a soft but rather tough texture. A very slight tuft of 

 flossy white silk is found inside, and within this the eggs are deposi- 

 ted. In one cocoon of a string of thirteen, twenty five minute dead 

 spiders were counted which had passed their first moult. In another 

 cocoon taken from a string of five only, there were twenty six. 

 The number varies a good deal, however. The cocooning period 

 appears to extend into May; at least Dv. McCook had received 

 from Miss Anna Wittfield, as late as the middle of June, a string 

 in which were some cocoons empty, one with spiderlings passed the 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 343 



first moult several days, aud another with young who had just 

 broken the egg. There was no trace of the bifurcated abdomen 

 upon these younglings. 



The spider is of a uniform light green color, about the shade of 

 its cocoon. The cephalothorax is of the same color as the abdomen; 

 in this respect differing from caudata which is black. The head 

 also is not so much elevated as is that of caudata. The adult female 

 is three-eights of an inch in length, and the only specimen of a male 

 obtained is about three-sixteenths of an inch in length, although it 

 is an immature specimen apparently lacking one moult of maturity. 

 The most striking characteristic of the female spider is that the 

 conical prolongation of the abdomen which marks the genus is dis- 

 tinctly cleft at the apex, giving it thus the appearance of the tail of 

 certain fishes and birds, and for this reason it is named Gyrtophora 

 bifurea. In this respect it decidedly differs from caudata whose 

 apex is without a cleft. On the basal part of the dorsum of the 

 abdomen are four conical processes arranged two on each side 

 symmetrically, the hind pair being the smaller. These processes 

 are soft resembling thus the like cones on the abdomens of the 

 Angulata group of Epeiroids rather than the tough spinous pro- 

 cesses upon Acrosoma and GasteracantJui. The spinnerets are surroun- 

 ded by a broad white band which extends along the venter as far as the 

 epigynum. The lip is sliarply triangular, and the mandibles cut 

 square across. In both these respects the species differs from caudata. 

 The eyes of the front row are about equally separated from each 

 other, although the interval between the mid-fronts is slightly less. 

 The side eyes are barely separated from each other. The male speci- 

 men alluded to above, Dr. McCook could not certainly affirm to belong 

 to this spider. It resembles caudata in its general appearance, the 

 abdomen lacking the bifurcation which marks the female, and the 

 cephalothorax being of a jet black. 



November 29. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Twenty-nine persons present, 



The following were elected members : — 



Messrs Garvin W. Hart, Charles A. Davis, Rev. R. H. Fulton,D,D. 

 and Miss Mary E. Shively. 



Orville A. Derby of Rio Janeiro was elected a correspondent. 

 The following were ordered to be printed : — 




344 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



ON THE HOMOLOGIES AND EARLY HISTORY OF THE 

 LIMBS OF VERTEBRATES. 



BY JOHN A. RYDER. 



I. The imj)erject serial liomology of the limbs of Vertebrates. 



That any one should seriously question the complete homol- 

 ogy of the anterior and posterior pairs of limbs as found developed 

 in the great classes; — Mammals, Birds, Reptiles, Amphibia and 

 Lyrifera, (Ichthyes, or all fish-like vertebrates, except the Lampreys 

 and Hags,) is, perhaps, at first thought, a somewhat startling prop- 

 osition. The fact that there is an imperfect homology or a want of 

 exact morphological equivalency between the parts of the same pairs 

 of limbs in different forms, has been tacitly admitted by such of the 

 transcendental anatomists as Gervais and Gegenbaur, and those 

 lanatomical philosophers who have been influenced by their a priori 

 methods, in developing which, certain suppositions had to be made, 

 which at the time, could not be or were not verifiable or refutable from 

 data supplied by general ontogeny or embryology. The case stands 

 differently to day. Since Gervais and Gegenbaur wrote on the the- 

 ory of the limbs, owing mainly to the remarkably fruitful labors of 

 Haeckel, Balfour and Dohrn, the great morphological problems 

 presented for solution by the organizations of the diverse classes of 

 vertebrata, have presented themselves under entirely new aspects. 

 These are not only momentous as affording a key to the interj)reta- 

 tion of the anatomy of the adults of the different types, but also as 

 throwing a not inconsiderable amount of light upon the relations 

 and taxonomy of the major groups. 



That the paired limbs have been derived from some common, 

 simple ancestral form of limb, is, I cannot help but believe, proved 

 by the following general truths : — 



• 1. In the most undeveloped condition, the first traces of the 

 paii'ed limbs of all vertebrates, find formal exjDression as low longi- 

 tudinal, lateral projections of the body, and lie in a plane parallel 

 with that of the axis of the latter. This fact originally observed by 

 K. E. von Baer, has in part afforded J. K. Thacher, F. M. Balfour, 

 and St. G. Mivart, the basis for a theory of the development of the 

 paired limb, but it remained for A. Dohrn to discover that there 

 existed a continuous series of vestigiary structures in certain forms 

 which connected the anterior and posterior limbs together into a 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 345 



continuous chain of serially homologous or homodynamous elements 

 These lateral elements of the limb, are therefore, to be regarded as 

 metameric structures, in that they correspond with the metamerism 

 of the body. The fore and hind limbs are, therefore, and presuma- 

 bly in all forms, to be regarded as directly or indirectly differentiated 

 from a single pair of lateral folds, it matters not in what way the 

 process may be obscured by extreme secondary modifications or 

 specializations of development. 



2. The subsidiary doctrines which confirm the preceding, may 

 be stated as follows : — 



a. The lowest truly limb-bearing vertebrates are the only ones 

 in which the lateral folds, fi-om which both pairs of limbs are derived, 

 are continuous or which show' a continuous series of limb-buds un- 

 der the integument along either side of the embryo. 



h. This lowest limb-bearing group is also the only one in which 

 the branches of the paired spinal nerves, which pass out to the met- 

 americally repeated limb-buds, ever form a continuous series, or in 

 which the paired limbs maintain their primordial horizontal posi- 

 tion. 



e. The group here referred to, the Elasmobranchii, is, moreover, 

 primitive in many other ways, especially as respects : — (1) or histo- 

 logical development, in that no parosteal or membrane bones are 

 developed, as in the higher types, and, (2) or morphological devel- 

 opment, in that the branchiae are at first naked, with no operculse 

 in the adult ; skeleton principally cartilaginous ; distal part of ver- 

 tical fins and paired limbs, supported and stiftened by actinotrichia 

 above, with shagreen or dermal spines covering them ; teeth gener- 

 ally successional from a thecal fold, and transitional to the spines or 

 denticles found iii the common external tegumentary covering of 

 the body ; no air bladder or pneumatic apparatus ; shoulder and 

 pelvic girdles simple ; jaws and mandibular arch simple, suspended 

 directly to the skull ; a wide, spiracular, branchiferous cleft ; gener- 

 ative and renal apparatus of a primitive type ; muscular buds, which 

 are thrust into the median and paired limb-folds, with traces of a 

 lumen or cavity, which has been derived from the cavity found in 

 the myotomes, from which the muscular buds have been derived as 

 outgro^vths or diverticula. 



This evidence is quite sufficient for us at present to build upon, 

 for the Ascidians, Leptocardians and Enteropneusta have no claim, 

 as based either upon their morphology or upon their ontogeny, to 



23 




346 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



be regarded as forms ancestrally or pliyletieally related in a direct 

 line to the limb-bearing vertebrates. It will probably be best to 

 regard all of these, including the Lampreys and Hags, as extreme 

 retrograde modifications or as adumbrations of something higher in 

 the Chordate series, and indeterminate in every respect to their ex- 

 act position with reference to the great limb-bearing phylum. The 

 JElasmobranchii, therefore, alone remain as a point of departure. 



It is not possible to develop a rational interpretation of the inex- 

 act homology of the paired limbs of the various types, in which it 

 may be suspected to exist, unless we start with the Elasmohranclis 

 because, in the latter only, do we find the limbs in a condition which 

 there is every reason to i-egard as the most primitive. The princi- 

 pal mark of this primitiveness is, as before stated, the continuity, at 

 a certain stage, of the limb-rudiments, the elements of which are, 

 moreover, metamerically repeated, that is, they recur as out-growths 

 from each and every successive myotome of the seties underlying 

 the paired integumentary folds, from portions of which, together 

 with a greater or lesser number of the underlying muscular limb- 

 buds and other mesoblast, the permanent limbs are finally differ- 

 entiated. It is probable, therefore, that the lateral limb-folds of this 

 primitive type may be regarded as typifying almost completely the 

 ideal form from which all of the various types of paired limbs have 

 been evolved, as seen in the various groups. That such a general- 

 ized (not archetypal) ancestral form may be assumed to be repre- 

 sented by the most generalized Elasmobranchs, (Rays and Torpedos) 

 will, I believe, be fully justified by the evidence, which remains to 

 be offered in what is to follow. 



While the method by which limbs are developed in Sharks and 

 True Fishes, must be admitted by anatomists to be primitive, it 

 must not be forgotten that long limbs of functional value, such as 

 are possessed by Land Mammals, Birds and Reptiles, would be next 

 to useless and an actual impediment in the struggle for existence, if 

 appended to a fish. That this is true, is proved by the fin or pad- 

 dle-like limbs of Plesiosaurs, Ichthyosaurs, Cetacea, Sirenia and 

 Pinnipeds, in all of which there has occurred a gradual abbreviation, 

 modification and even change of the position of the limbs, in order 

 to economize the exertion of effort in a dense medium — water — in 

 which short, fin-like limbs only would be preserved by mechanical 

 selection. That is, the limb which presented the greatest mechanical 

 advantages would be the one preserved, while its adaptation — modi- 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 347 



fication in a determinate direction (not hap-hazard, through fortui- 

 tous variation,) would be conditioned by definite retroactions be- 

 tween the organism and its environment, and thiis gradually stamp 

 it with peculiar and mechanically advantageous features. This 

 view should- not be lost sight of; and, while it has been demonstra- 

 ted to the satisfaction of all anatomists, (except P. Albrecht, whose 

 views as to the j^rimitive nature of the Cetacea are not borne out 

 upon either morphological or palaeontological grounds,) that, the ab- 

 errant forms alluded to above, are in all probability descendants of 

 land and semi-amphibious types, we are forcibly reminded by these 

 examples, of how the evolution of strongly marked types is directly 

 conditioned by the peculiar nature of their specialized environment. 



This brings us to the question of distribution in time, or the se- 

 quence of forms. Here, palaeontology comes to the aid of the mor- 

 phologist and affords the final proof that the Fishes are veritably 

 the oldest of the limb-bearing vertebrates. The evidence derived 

 from ontogeny, comparative morphology, taxonomy and palaeon- 

 tology is, therefore, in accord and quite conclusive as to the main 

 fact of the primitiveness of the fish-like type, which is, therefore, the 

 only one which can be regarded as affording the direct ancestral 

 means through which the structural condition of the limbs of high- 

 er forms may be reached. 



The mediate or indirect ancestry of the higher vertebrate types, 

 was undoubtedly, one in which there obtained a condition even more 

 primitive than in the most generalized of the limb-bearing fishes. 

 Such a type was one which probably differed from the most gener- 

 alized fish, in having the metameric elements of the paired limbs 

 distinct for each segment ; and not coalesced or fused into a more or 

 less closely connected longitudinal series, covered by a simple, com- 

 mon fold of integument as in the latter. The only types which ap- 

 proach such a condition, are the existing Errant Annelids or Worms. 

 These, or some peculiar generalized forms of Worms were therefore, 

 the probable prototypes of the vertebrates as maintained by Dohrn 

 and Semper, and, thanks to the brilliant reseax'ches of Bateson ujdou 

 Balanoglossiis, such a view has more in its favor now than ever be- 

 fore. Yet, here again the unwary must be cautioned, since Balano- 

 glossus, living as it does buried in the sand, has probably undergone 

 some retrogressive metamorphosis, so that it has been itself modified 

 and diverted out of the path leading in the direction of the descent, 

 of the true vertebrate forms. 




348 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



The presence of two lateral rows of vestigiary structures, in the 

 position of parapodia, on either side of the tail of embryos of certain 

 Elasmohranchs, and on either side of the dorsal median line, oj^po- 

 site the interval where the vertical dorsal fins are wanting, as first 

 described by P. Mayer, led that investigator to regard such vestiges 

 as parapodoid in character. 



The existence of vestigiary structures of this kind, as well as 

 their segmented or metameric relations, which are essentially the same 

 in their general features, as those of the metameric elements of the 

 limbs themselves, lends additional probability to the doctrine, that 

 the vertebrates are the off'-shoots of a worm-like ancestral form. 



The suppression of the caudal parapodia or radial elements of the 

 fins in the ancestral types, which led to the difierentiation of the 

 paired fins, may be ascribed to a number of other influences be- 

 sides those referred to by Dohrn, of which the following may be 

 mentioned, 



1. If the ancestral type has been one which was at one time 

 tubicolous in habit, the abortion of the caudal parapodia would be 

 accounted for. Though, it must be admitted that this view is in 

 the highest degree improbable,,but not impossible. 



2. The late outgrowth of the tail in annelids as well as in verte- 

 brates, presupposes a belating of the functional activity of the cau- 

 dal parapodia, through which their importance and development 

 may have been hindered. 



3. The slight use made of the parapodia of the tail as locomo- 

 tive organs, after the tail became laterally flattened or compressed, 

 since it is well known that the pi'incipal power of propulsion exerted 

 by fishes, is by means of the alternate flexures of the tail ; the fins 

 aiding only in a moderate degree, their principal oflSce being to bal- 

 ance or hold the body and keep it in the normal position. The ex- 

 ceptions to this rule are very few ; the most important being that of 

 Mola in which the dorsal and anal fins are the sole organs of loco- 

 motion, as shown by the writer elsewhere. 



The abortion of the caudal part of the intestine, now represented 

 by the post-anal gut, as it is termed by embryologists, may have 

 had something to do with the development of paired limbs over the 

 sides of what remained of the body cavity, as urged by Dohrn, but 

 there must have been forces at work which led to this abortive pro- 

 cess, by which the primitive gut was shortened. And, while it is 

 undoubtedly a fact that such a shortening of the alimentary tract 




1887.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 349 



has occurred, giving rise to the gutless and acoelomatous tail of a 

 number of classes, the shortening has been compensated for by the 

 development of intestinal coils, diverticula, pouches, rirgae, folds, 

 follicles, crypts, glands, valves, etc., thus increasing the efficiency 

 of the anterior portion of the alimentary canal as a digestive appa- 

 ratus, so that the hinder part became useless, thus leading to its 

 suppression. This seems to have been the cause antecedent to the 

 one invoked by Dohrn. 



Accepting the morphological part of the theory of Dohrn, as to 

 the phylogeny and ontogeny of the paired and unpaired limbs, a 

 difficulty has arisen as to how the parapodia became mainly dorsal 

 and ventral, if, as is supposed, they are derived from an ancestry in 

 which they were lateral. The view that the presence or absence of 

 the alimentary canal was an efficient cause is beset with grave diffi- 

 culties. A view wdiich seems to me to be far more probable, rests 

 upon the exaggerated development of a very different set of paired 

 structures in the lower vertebrates, namely, the myotomes. The 

 homologous tract in the Annelids is almost equally developed around 

 almost the entire circumference of the somites, whereas in the ver- 

 tebrates their development is almost wholly lateral, especially dur- 

 ing the early stages. The bilaterality of the muscular system thus 

 finding expression in the much thickened or laterally hypertrophied 

 somatopleure of the primitive vertebrntes, would inevitably crowd 

 the notopodia and neuropodia of the ancestral Annelid, toward the 

 ventral and dorsal edges of the body ; the infolding of the medull- 

 ary groove would divide the somatopleure in the middle line, and 

 the growth forward of the stout notochord would tend greatly to aid 

 from beneath, in breaking the continuity of the somatopleural layer 

 across the median line. The suppression of the dorsal moieties of 

 the body cavities in the myotomes would also aid in effecting the 

 needed change. 



With the advent of a laterally hypertrophied somatopleure, flex- 

 ures of the body in the ventral or dorsal, as well as lateral direction 

 would no longer be so well marked, and the habitual flexures of the 

 body now established, would be alternating ones from right to left ; 

 thus, the habitual mode of flexure of the body of fishes would be at- 

 tained. The mode in which muscular contractions resulting in the 

 manifestation of movements would thus become more specialized 

 than in the annelids and be brought to the stage observed iu the 

 lower vertebrata. 




350 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



The less marked development or thickening of the somatopleure 

 over the lateral and ventral parietes of the body-cavity, in the prim- 

 itive vertebrates, would doubtless tend to affect the position of the 

 notopodia, from which the paired limbs are supposed to be derived, 

 causing them to retain their primitive place. 



Thus far, only the ontogenetic theory of the limbs has been dis- 

 cussed, in order to prepare the reader for the evidence which is now 

 to be presented ; many of the data are from personal studies, and 

 such old data as I have found available, I trust, will be brought 

 into such contrast with the others, as a whole, as to bring out their 

 morphological significance. 



II. The jjroof of tJie inexact homology of the limbs of different types. 

 The inexact homology or equivalency of the limbs of different 

 types of vertebrates has been suspected by authors, but no observa- 

 tions or systematic comparisons have been put upon record to show 

 that there Avere good morphological grounds for such a conception 

 of the nature of limbs. The exact morphological equivalency of 

 the pairs of limbs of different types, would require that they arise 

 from the sides of the same segments or somites behind the skull, for 

 each pair, in all species of vertebrates. If, for example, the limb- 

 bud of the pectoral or fore-limb arose from the fifth to the eighth 

 post-occipital somites in all vertebrates, there could be no question 

 that the foi'e-limb in one was the exact homologue of the fore-limb 

 in every other form. Unfortunately, the facts of development and 

 comparative morphology unequivocally compel us to admit that 

 such is not the case. 



1. Emhryologicul evidence, considering especially the points of origin 

 of paired limbs. 



The positions in which the limb buds of the same pair arise in 

 different types varies between wide limits, and, while there are causes 

 which in part explain these variations, there are some complications 

 involved which refuse any other exj^lauation except that which sup- 

 poses, that such variation in point of origin is an indication of in- 

 exact homology. 



It may be stated as a general truth that, the paired nerves which 

 go to a given limb have arisen from the somites, which were oppo- 

 site or beneath the limb bud or fold, from which that limb developed. 

 This may be shown to be true in the lower forms nearest the primi- 

 tive type, from which all others may be supposed to have arisen. 

 For example, the pelvic pair of limbs of physoclistous Fishes at first 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 351 



grow out close behind the pectoral limbs, with little or uo interven. 

 ing space between them, but notwithstanding this fact, and in spite 

 of an extensive subsequent translocation of the pelvic limbs forward 

 into a position in advance of the base of the pectorals, the paired 

 nerves which go to the pelvic limbs retain their primary origin be- 

 hind those which pass to the pectorals. In the adult physoclists, 

 therefore, the nerves going to the pelvic limbs, cross below those 

 going to the jiectorals, on their way to the pelvic limbs. This re- 

 tention of the original nerve origins is in itself the best proof that 

 we can depend upon to give us a clew to the groups of somites from 

 which a given limb has arisen. 



In many cases the origins of the paired nerves passing from the 

 cord are much further forward than the foramina or intervertebral 

 intervals which give them exit. This difficulty is probably quite 

 explained away by the manner in Avhich the vertebral canal grows 

 in length compared with the cord. It is found, in fact, that the 

 vertebral canal grows in length much faster, in many forms, than 

 the cord, after a certain j^eriod. This causes the origins of the spinal 

 nerves from the cord to appear as if they had been drawn forward 

 some distance in advance of their points of exit from the sides of 

 the vertebral canal. That this is a true exj)lanation is proved by 

 the fact that Kolliker has found the cord extending the entire length 

 of the vertebral canal in the human embryo of three months, while 

 the writer has found the same condition in the embryos of Cetaceans, 

 two inches in length. It is, therefore, obvious that the Cauda equina 

 in these cases is developed at a later period, and as a result of the 

 growth in length of the spinal or vertebral canal at a more rapid 

 rate than that of the included cord itself. Similar phenomena oc- 

 cur in the cases of certain fishes (Lophius) and Goette has described 

 the process in Bomhinator igneus. In this last case, however, there 

 is more or less positive atrophy of the posterior end of the cord in 

 the course of development, so that only about 14 pairs of spinal 

 nerves can be finally identified. In Mola, not only the cord, but 

 the tail is also aborted to such an extent that only a very short, almost 

 occipital, cord remains, the j^aired nerves passing directly to the 

 lateral musculature of the vertical and paired fins, after forming a 

 dorsal cauda equina. The cord in the long, flagelliform, reduced 

 tail of the two Lyomeri, viz : Gastrostomus and Ophiognathus, shows 

 unmistakable signs of atrophy or degeneration, in that the cord in 

 the tail becomes so reduced to a mere flattened filament, that it is 




352 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



with great difficulty that the white and gray matter can be distin- 

 guished in sections, or that any differentiation, except around the 

 central canal, is visible. 



In the singular and remarkable case of the Cetacea the embryo- 

 logical evidence, here offered, is entirely reconcilable with the views 

 for the first time propounded by the wi^iter upon morphological 

 grounds, that the distal portions of the hind limbs are represented 

 by the flukes. The latter being in reality the outward vestiges of 

 hind limbs, so that the statement in recent text-books to the effect 

 that, "the Cetacea are without hind limbs," must be qualified. The 

 morphological evidence attainable proves beyond a resonable doubt 

 that the distal part of the hind limbs have been translocated back- 

 wards into their present position in Cetaceans, through the inter- 

 mediation of a type approximating the existing pinnipeds, in which 

 a similar process is now taking place. 



In the Cetacea, the translocation of the hind limbs has been in a 

 backward direction or just the reverse of what has occurred in the 

 physoclistous Fishes. The Cetacean "lumbo-caudal plexus" which 

 at least furnishes the sensory branches of nerves going to those or- 

 gans, is therefore, either a backwardly translocated structure, simi- 

 lar in character to the forwardly translocated pairs of nerves going 

 to the pelvic limbs of Physoclists, or it may be that they represent 

 the modified posterior part of the system of spinal nerves, which 

 supply the muscles of the powerful tail and have thus acquired 

 secondarily a more intimate relation to the flukes. At any rate, the 

 nerves, in this case, give us a frir less potent argument in favor of 

 translocation than do the skeleton and muscles, which are alone con- 

 clusive, when contrasts are made between their condition in the 

 normal Mammalia, the pinnipeds and the Cetacea as the last extreme 

 of modification. 



But backward translocation of limbs is not confined to Cetacea. 

 In all fishes so far observed by competent embryologists the pec- 

 torals grow out on either side of the anterior end of the trunk as a 

 pair of folds just behind the last pair of branchial arches. In one 

 group however, the embryology of which is not known, and which 

 will in all probability remain inaccessible to us for the reason that, 

 both Gastrostomus and Ophiogncdhus, the genera referred to, are 

 abyssal forms, there is every reason to believe that the pectoral 

 pair of fins has been translocated backwards. In the case of Gas- 

 trostomus bairdli, this translocation has pushed the pectoral fins 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 353 



back out of their usual place, over about thirteen segments beyond 

 the occiput, and the translocation of the pectoral of Ophiognathus 

 is scarcely less. In both these cases the translocation is due to the 

 extension backward of certain portions of the inferior arches of the 

 skull, and of the mouth, as a result of which, the branchial appara- 

 tus and heart have also been displaced and lost their attachment or 

 contiguity to the skull, while the carotid arteries have been length- 

 ened to an extent which is altogether without a parallel amongst 

 fishes. 



Amongst median fins the anterior dorsal of Lophius is known 

 to undergo considerable displacement forward, according to the 

 published figures of A. Agassiz, showing the development of this 

 form. Even in the history of the metamorphosis of the tail in het- 

 erocercal types, I have attempted to show (Origin of Heterocercy) 

 that associated with the deflection upwards of the end of the cau- 

 dal axis, due to a definite combination of mechanical conditions, 

 there has also occurred a translocation forwards, crowding together 

 of the inferior basal and hsemal supports of the caudal rays. 



Turning again to the evidence, purely morphological and embry- 

 ological, we find that the last pair of spinal nerves in Phoccena make 

 their exit at the 45th vertebra, in Man at the 27th, in Lepus at the 

 29th, which facts when contrasted, sufiiciently prove that there have 

 been changes in the position of the source of the innervation of the 

 limbs. The additional evidence which we possess showing that the 

 hind limbs of the Cetacea and Sireuia have sufiered displacement 

 and may not be exactly homologous with the hind limbs of other 

 vertebrates, consists in the fact that the hinder limb-buds (future 

 flukes) grow out at the sides of the cylindrical tail and but slightly 

 in advance of its termination, as low horizontal folds which have 

 degenerated into the flukes, which noAv consist internally of the lov.- 

 est grade of tissue, viz : fibrous connective, covered by the closely 

 adherent integument. 



In violent contrast to this we have the mode of development of 

 the limbs of the PhysocHsti at a parallel stage as buds or outgrowths 

 immediately behind and with scarcely an interval between them- 

 selves and the rudiments of the pectorals immediately in advance of 

 them. As a result of this, the paired spinal nerves which innervate 

 the pectoral and pelvic limbs, form a continuous series with no in- 

 terval whatever between them as shown by the accompanying ta- 

 ble, while the greatest interval between the last brachial and first 




354 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



lumbo-sacral nerve is found, as would be expected, in Phoccena, where 

 it aggregates 16 pairs, according to the same table. We are accord- 

 ingly forced to admit that the nerve supply going to a given limb 

 is correlated with the position along the axis, at which it first grew 

 out in the embryo. 



If it is still insisted that these comparisons are unfair, I shall now 

 propose some fresh difficulties to be disposed of by objectors to my 

 thesis, that, pairs of limbs which are apparently exactly homologous 

 upon superficial inspection are not necessarily the exact homologues 

 of each other. 



Take the cases of Coitus and Esox, if you please. AVe find here 

 that in the first there is a continuous series of not more than seven 

 pairs of nerves, reckoning from the occiput, which supply both the 

 pectoral and pelvic fins. Turning now to Esox, we find five pairs 

 of post-occipital nerves, which send a nerve supply to the pectoral, 

 then follows an interval of twelve pairs of ''intercostals," and it is 

 only when we reach the 18th post-occipital pair, that we first find 

 nerves which pass to the pelvic limb ; eight pairs in all sending 

 branches to that limb, so that, according to the old view, we have 

 the preposterous conclusion that, the 25th pair of spinal nerves in 

 Esox are the homologues of the 7th pair in Coitus! 



We find in these two cases, moreover, that the rudiments of the 

 pelvic limbs do not grow out at the same point, in respect to the 

 median axis, but in the embryos of Coitus far in advance of the point 

 of origin of the same fin in the embryo of Esox. And in proof of 

 the fact that the pelvic fin of Coitus has not been derived by its mi- 

 gration forwards in the embryo, from a more posterior position sim- 

 ilar to that in the embryo of Esox, we have the fact that we have no 

 embryological evidence whatever, to show that such a translocation 

 occurs. In fact, the rudiments of the pelvic fins grow out from the 

 sides of the embryo in both genera in exactly the position required 

 by the position of the nerve supply in the adults. 



Further, is it to be supposed that in a Bird, where there are about 

 ten post-occipital pairs of nerves which have nothing to do with in- 

 nervating the wings, it Avould be fair to compare the first five of 

 these which have no direct relation to the fore-limb, with the first 

 five post-occipital pairs in Esox f 



Here again, the embryological evidence is conclusive, since in 

 Fishes generally, the pectoral fin-fold grows out immediately behind 

 the last branchial arches and from what would be the cervical re- 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 355 



gion iu the bird, and Esox is no exception to this rule. In the Bird 

 (Chick and Sparrow), I find, just as was to have been expected, 

 that the pectoral limb-bud (wing) does not grow out from the sides 

 of the cervical or anterior region of the trunk as in Fishes, but some 

 distance behind it. In fact, a corresponding number of somites in- 

 tervene between the hindermost limit of the cranium and the ante- 

 rior margin of the fore-limb of the embrj^o bird. This gives to young 

 embryos of birds their peculiar lono^ necked appearance, because 

 their necks are absolutely longer for morphological reasons than 

 those of other warm-blooded vertebrates. We find indeed, that the 

 fore limbs of birds are separated by a wider interval from the oral 

 opening or the base of the skull, than those of Mammals. This fact 

 Avill be palpably brought out, if tw^o series of embryos of Birds and 

 Mammals of approximately the same relative stages are laid side by 

 side and compared. It will then be seen that the first traces of limb- 

 buds in Birds arise farther back from the head than those of Mam- 

 mals, thus clearly showing that the fore limbs, in the two cases, do 

 not arise from serially equivalent somites, 



The fore-limb of the Bird, therefore, grows out and develops at a 

 point posterior to that at which the fore-limb of the Fish is devel- 

 oped ; the segmental elements which enter into the formation of the 

 fore-limb (pectoral) of the fish, are therefore not homonymous with 

 those which enter into the formation of the fore-limb (wing) of the 

 bird. Nor can less be said when we come to compare the early stages 

 of the Bird and Mammal. 



This failure of the limbs to arise from an exactly homonymous 

 series of successive segments in different groups, shows in the clearest 

 manner that such diflTerence in origin unquestionably implies the ex- 

 istence of inexact homology, with all the morphological consequence 

 which must follow. 



We have also seen that sudden or rapid forward translocation of 

 the hind limbs during their early stages, occurs only amongst Phy- 

 soclists, where it has l)een repeatedly observed in different genera. 

 In Cetacea, I have elsewhere sought to explain thei^eculiar method 

 of their backward displacement in another manner, while the cases 

 in which it is more than probable that the fore-limbs undergo rear- 

 ward displacement include only one type of Fishes viz : the Lyomeri. 

 In no others except Pinnipeds does there appear to be the slightest 

 evidence of the occurrence of translocation. The defenders of the 

 Arch i pterygium hypothesis are, therefore, so far as they w^ ould avail 




356 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



themselves of the theory of the translocation of the limbs, left with 

 nothing to rely upon. Even supposing that the phylogenetic history 

 is inaccurately repeated in the ontogeny of the forms here used in 

 illustration, how will we explain on such a supposition, the pei'sist- 

 ent posterior origin of the pelvic limbs in Physostomes from folds 

 separated by an interval of as many as 20 somites from the pectorals, 

 while in Physoclists there is either a very small interval or almost 

 none ; and why is it that the nerye supply for the limb should be 

 derived so constantly from the pairs underlying the point of origin 

 of the limb-fold ? We saw, nioreover, that when translocation did 

 occur during ontogeny, that the distal portion of the nerve supply 

 was carried along with the limb, while the point of the origin of the 

 nerve supply remained unchanged. The other cases of translocation, 

 which are well made out, the Cetacea and Lyomeri are not fairly ta 

 be contrasted with that of the Physoclisti, because, in the first in- 

 stance the hind limbs have become totally incapable of free or 

 independent movement, while in the case of the Lyomeri, the fore-limbs 

 have become detached from the cranium, and limb and pectoral arch 

 so undeveloped as to present a condition which is attained by many 

 fresh-water forms before they leave the egg. The Cetacea, Lyomeri 

 and Ichthyosauria, are the only vertebrates in which the pelvic or 

 pectoral girdle has suffered displacement, detachment or reduction, 

 except the Physoclisti, and, while it must be admitted that our in- 

 formation as to how this occurred, is for the most part only inferen- 

 tial and based upon comparative studies of the morj)hology of allied 

 forms, as far as regards the first three, the actual observation of how 

 such a process has occurred in the last named group should make us 

 all the more ready to expect equally remarkable revelations regard- 

 ing the others. And of fossil groups besides the Ichthyosauria, it 

 is not impossible or improbable that such as the Enaliosauria and 

 others, might afford ])rofitable and suggestive contrasts. These, 

 however, we can have little hope of studying from the stand-point 

 of the embryologist, owing to the paucity of material. 



The embryological evidence has now been stated, together with 

 such a discussion of the extent to which translocation of the limbs, 

 during their early stages, has had any bearing upon the questions at 

 issue, so that we may at once turn to the consideration of the mor- 

 phology of adult forms in this connection. 



2. Anatomical evidence, considering especially the relations of the 

 spinal nerves to the limbs. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 357 



In order to make comparison easy between the various adult types, 

 I have tabulated the pairs of nerves which enter into the composi- 

 tion of the brachial and lumbo-sacral plexus6s, or, as we may name 

 them for brevity's sake — proplexus and postj)lexus, in such a way as 

 to show their inexact homology and homonymy at a glance. The 

 pairs of nerves belonging to the proplexus are indicated by the sign 

 X, while those belonging to the series of the postplexus are indicated 

 by the sign o; these signs are also placed in the successive columns 

 from left to right in such an order as to indicate at once the serial 

 number of the nerves they stand for, as reckoned from the occipital 

 foramen towards the end of the tail. 



The relations of the proplexus and postplexus may be graphically 

 represented by such a table and it is evident from a simple inspec- 

 tion and comparison of the limb-innervating series of spinal nerves 

 indicated by the arbitary signs, that there is clearly a lack of ho- 

 monymy of the paired limbs, if the determination of such homonymy 

 depends upon the origin of the paired limbs from somites, which are 

 distant the same number of segments from the occiput or posterior 

 extremity of the head. 



The thirty-tw^o pairs belonging to the proplexus of Raia eglanteria 

 cannot by any possible supposition be made equivalent to the third 

 and fourth nerves entering into the proplexus of Rana; nor can it 

 be shown that the proplexus of Raia is exactly homologous with 

 that of Esox or Cottus. Even supposing that every two or three 

 pairs of Raia represent morphologically, but a single pair in Rana 

 and Esox, the difficulty is not disposed of, because, while it is possi- 

 ble to suppose that one-half of a given number of somites in a Sela- 

 chian, represent a morphologically equivalent number in Teleosts or 

 Amphibia, there is no valid ground anywhere discoverable in mor- 

 phology, for supposing that the ratio of the morphological equiv- 

 alency, when the values of the somites of the two types are contrasted, 

 is greater than this. This contrast, however, does not avail, for 

 even upon such a supposition, one-half of the number of nerve pairs 

 in the proplexus of Raia is sixteen, or eleven more than in Esox. 



The utter absurdity of this last way of bringing the proplexuses 

 of Raia and Esox into homonymical agreement is brought out, if 

 we make another contrast. In fact, it is possible to show that, if we 

 push the theory of multiples too far that we cannot account for the 

 relations of the post-plexuses of a Physostome and a Physoclist. 

 For, suppose the thirty -two pairs of the proplexus of Raia eglanteria 




358 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



fused by fours into eight, this brings the first pair of the post-plexus 

 into the position of the ninth, but in the Physostomous Esox, the 

 the first pair of the post-plexus is the 18th, while in some Physoclists, 

 the first pair of the post-jjlexus is the fourth or fifth, a result which 

 makes the absurdity of such a method of reasoning still more pre- 

 posterous. The climax is reached when the theory of multiple 

 equivalency is resorted to in comparing the post-plexus ofHaia and 

 Esox. The thirty-third to the forty-sixth pair in Rata, fourteen in 

 all, would be equal to about three, or a little more, pairs in the 

 post-plexus of Esox, on the basis of the doctrine of multiples. This 

 is four less than the required number in Esox, besides which, the 

 first pair would be brought into the position of the ninth instead of 

 the eighthteenth, its required place. Or if Ave took two pairs of 

 spinal nerves of Raia to equal one of Esox, we should only have 

 seven for the post-plexus of the latter or one less than the required 

 number, while the first would be brought into the position of the 

 seventeenth instead of the eighthteeuth, its required position. 



The table also shows that the proplexus of Raia batis, according 

 to Swan, is nearly equal to the pro-and post-plexuses of Raia eglan- 

 teria taken together. It is also shoAvn that the proplexus of 3I:us- 

 telus canis is made up of not quite half as many nerve pairs as that 

 of Raia eglanteria, and it therefore has just a third as many as R. batis. 

 In that it is now known that each anterior somite gives off'just twice 

 as many muscular buds as there are somites, the buds corresponding 

 to as many rays, it is clear that the anterior fins of these three Elas- 

 mobranchs are not the exact homologues of each other, that is, the 

 pectoral of Raia is derived from more somites than that of Mustelus 

 and they can therefore not be equivalent in an exactly homological 

 sense. 



A still further inspection of the table will enable the reader to 

 make many other comparisons which will be equally striking. 

 Amongst the others, that of Phoccena is one of the most interesting. 

 It Avill be seen that the post-plexus is pushed backward. But this 

 may be partially accounted for, as only the first five pairs can be 

 fairly compared with those of other Mammals, this plexus in Phoccena 

 as a whole, having undergone reduction, the thirty-first to the forty-fifth 

 pairs forming what ought, perhaps, to be considered a caudal plexus. 



Throughout, it will be seen that from the Amphibia onward, the 

 number of nerve pairs entering into the formation of the plexuses, 

 have undergone as marked and abrupt a reduction in number, as the 




1887.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



359 




360 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



radii or digits, in the transition from the many-rayed fishes. 

 This is a very significant fact and is of striking importance, as 

 indicating that there is a certain general correspondence between 

 the number of nerve pairs and the number of digits in the hepta- 

 dactyle, (==what was formerly considered the pentadactyle) limb of 

 higher vertebrates, since the identification of extra, but vestigiary 

 radial, ulnar, tibial and fibular digits by Bardeleben. The seven 

 digits of the manus never much exceed the usual five, to six pairs 

 of the proplexus, while the seven digits of the pes do not much ex- 

 ceed or fall below the six to nine nerve pairs of the most usual type 

 of postplexus. We saw too, that in those cases where an excessive 

 number of digits wei'e developed in the fore-limb, as in the case of 

 Raia, there was an exact correspondence in the number of nerve 

 pairs of the proplexus. The exactitude of this correspondence is in 

 fact, apparently, in proportion to the degree to which the digital 

 elements — radii (of the pro- meso- and metapterygium) have retained 

 their archaic composition, relation, want of torsion, etc., in either 

 limb, 



3. Fusion of radii to form the pro- meso- and metapterygium and 

 their inexact homology. 



On the basis of the doctrines established by Dohrn, through onto- 

 genetic research, it is quite safe to assume with him, that the three 

 basal elements of the limb in Elasmobranchs have been derived from 

 the primitively separate cartilaginous radii, developed in the meso- 

 blastic tissue between the muscular limb-buds thrown ofi" by the 

 somites. The different genera of Selachians, however, show that 

 the pro- meso- and metapterygium, as suspected by Wiedersheim, 

 are probably not exactly homologous, because the mesopterygium is 

 not always present, and Avheu present, upon comparing any pair of 

 genera, it will be found that in no two do the number of radii present 

 in the pro- meso- and metapterygium correspond. This difference 

 is apparently due to the fact that the number of radii in the whole 

 limb, in different genera, is not constant, as already pointed out. 

 Furthermore, it is evident that the pro- meso- and metapterygium 

 respectively, cannot be of the same morj^hological value in different 

 genera, if the same number of somites do not take a share in the 

 formation of each of these three parts in different genera. It follows 

 from this that neither the uniserial nor biserial archipterygium of 

 Gegenbaur and Huxley can be made to yield such a fixed hypothet- 

 ical type as will lead up to the various modifications of the paired 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361 



limbs, because it can be shown that what is metaiiterygiura in one 

 case is not such in another; besides, there are embryological difficul- 

 ties in the w^ay which are insuperable. The exact homological 

 equivalency of pro- meso- and metapterygium, has in fact, been aban- 

 doned by some of the ablest contemporary anatomists. 

 4. Formation of plexuses and their inexact homology. 



There is no more reason to suppose that the nerve plexuses of 

 vertebrates are exactly homologous, than there is for the supposition 

 that the muscles are exactly homologous. The trapezius and latis- 

 simus dorsi for example, cannot be regarded as having exactly the 

 same morphological value in Man, Selachians and Amphibians, be- 

 cause in these three cases they are not derived from the same num- 

 ber of somites; they are only physiologically homologous. 



The arguments of Gegenbaur, Fiirbringer and Davidoflf that the 

 limbs have migrated backwards or forwards, as indicated by the ex- 

 istence of the collector nerves formed by the ans^e and commissures 

 between successive pairs, anterior and posterior to those pairs which 

 form the functional plexus of the limb, are not sustained by em- 

 bryological evidence, and the existence of the nervus collector is 

 rather to be taken as evidence that the radii belonging to the pairs 

 entering into the anterior and posterior portion of the n. collector 

 have been suppressed or fused with the radii forming the peduncle 

 of the limb. My reason for holding this opinion is, that the only 

 case in which the effect of translocation of a limb on the jjeripheral 

 ends of the nerve pairs passing to that limb, has been traced embry- 

 ologically, shows that their peripheral ends travel Avith the displaced 

 limb, at the same time retaining their origins, and do not run par- 

 allel for a long distance Avith the functional pairs, as is shown- by 

 Davidoff 's own figures of the nerve plexus of Acanthias. 



Whatever fibres of the collector nerve enter into the plexus, of the 

 functional limb, have been incorporated in virtue of the constriction 

 of the limb fold posteriorly and anteriorly, as a result of which many 

 radii which were originally attached to the sides of the body, have 

 acquired a secondary attachment to the proximal ends of the blended 

 radii, from which the so-called pro- meso- and metapterygium have 

 been evolved. There can be no doubt of the fact, that in this way 

 the limbs of primitive vertebrates first became pedunculate. It can 

 thus be shown that the radii which are detached from the body, are 

 not lost but simply carried farther out by the accelerated growth of 

 the radii forming the skeleton of the peduncle of the limb. This 



24 




862 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1887. 



type of displacement of positions of a limb, cannot fairly be com- 

 pared with the case of the Physoclists, in which the peduncle of the 

 limb also shifts its position in reference to the origin of its nerve 

 supply. The foregoing view as to the origin of the n. collector, has, 

 I would state here, been arrived at independently by Wiedersheim 

 in the second edition of his Lehrbuch, (p. 328). 



It might also be added that, wherever the proplexus and post- 

 plexus are parts of a continuous series of pairs as in Rata, the fin- 

 folds of both pairs of limbs are also continuous at the time they first 

 grow out, whereas, when they are not continuous, and when the an- 

 terior and posterior limbs grow out as more or less widely separated 

 folds, but with abortive limb-buds intervening, which never form a 

 part of the permanent limb, as may be observed in the embryos of 

 Mustelus, the two plexuses are separated by an interval. 



Such forms as liaia, also exhibit extensive fusion of the proximal 

 ends of the separate radii, leading to the formation of the longest 

 possible type of pro- and metapterygium, whereas in the types like 

 Mustelus, the propterygium and metapterygium are composed of fewer 

 radii. They cannot, therefore, be homologous and we cannot on that 

 account take any metapterygium or propterygium or whole fin of 

 any particular type, as the ground form from which an ideal arch- 

 ipterygium or cheiropterygium may be supposed to have arisen. It 

 is probably better for the present to assume, for the reason that an 

 inexact homology exists when the limbs of different vertebrates are 

 critically compared, that the different types of limbs, as we now see 

 them in the higher groups, have arisen independently and differently 

 in the different phyla. That the manus and pes, as seen in the va- 

 rious vertebrates, from Amphibians upward, show a common plan 

 there is no doubt, but of the fact that similar structures may orig- 

 inate independently of each other, we have numerous instances in the 

 animal kingdom. 



It is not even certain that there may not be more than two pairs 

 of limbs developed in certain Fishes. In the cephalic fins of Torpedo- 

 and Narcine, the radii rest upon the rostral cartilage of the cranium, 

 thus separating them from the shoulder girdle. This attachment is 

 supposed by Gegenbaur to be a secondary one, the radii of the ceph- 

 alic fins being part of the radii of the propterygium, secondarily de- 

 detached from the anterior jiortion of the pectoral. But for this 

 opinion there do not seem to be more valid grounds, than for the 

 supposition that the cephalic fins are outgrowths of the head, since 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 363 



it is known that in some Dipnoi, the pectoral limb is innervated 

 partly by branches from the hypoglossus and vagus, (Protopterus). 

 In the domesticated races of the Japanese Gold-fishes, popularly 

 knoAvn as "Fan-tails," in which both the anal fin and the ventral 

 lobe of the caudal fin are frequently double, it has been shown by 

 Mr. S. Watase that they arise from a pair of parallel ventral fin-folds 

 extending from the hinder part of the yolk sack to the end of the 

 notochord. He has further shown in the same memoir* that the 

 double, ventral series of interhsemals of the anal and caudal of these 

 fishes are the supports of the radii derived from actinotrichia and 

 the cartilaginous nodules at their bases, thus bringing these fins into 

 complete morphological harmony with the ventrals, in which the 

 pelvic girdle is probably to be considered as representing modified 

 interhsemals. It indubitably follows from this, that the double or 

 paired anal and the double inferior lobe of the caudal, are to be con- 

 sidered as paired fins or limbs serially homologous with the pectoral 

 and pelvic pairs. While this embryological and morphological 

 evidence most admirably confirms the views of Dohrn as to the na- 

 ture of the paired limbs, there can be little doubt that, the double 

 anal and caudal have a just claim to be regarded as additional pairs 

 of limbs, making four pairs in all. Their development is further to 

 be regarded as due to reversion induced by a process of degenera- 

 tion, which has affected the whole urosome or tail of these fishes 

 from the vent backwards. This degeneration seems to be due to 

 domestication, since it is now admitted by an expert American 

 breeder of these varieties of gold-fishes, Mr. W. P. Seal, that the 

 forms most modified and prized by fanciers can only be reared in 

 restricted quarters or in aquaria or protected pools of moderate di- 

 mensions. The extreme shortening and modification of the muscu- 

 lar and axial parts of the tail, has been produced in the course of a 

 prolonged process of selective breeding, their singular changes of 

 form being probably due to disuse. The most modified forms which 

 the writer has seen alive, were slow and sluggish in their movements, 

 their enormously lengthened caudal, pectoral and ventral rays and 

 membranes seeming to interfere with any rapid motions. The short- 

 ening of the muscular portion of the tail would also aid to produce 

 such a result, as is known from Strasser's experimental researches on 

 the function of the tail in fishes. 



*0n tlie caudal and anal fins of Gold-fishes. Journ. Science College, Im- 

 perial University, Japan. Vol. I. 




364 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



The degenerative processes made manifest in ontogeny, often undo 

 the synthetic or constructive morphological work, which has been 

 accomplished during phylogeny. This seems to be the case in these 

 extremely modified forms of Gold-fishes, in which, indeed, there is 

 palpable evidence of great cranial modification, similar to that seen 

 in domesticated races of Pigs and in the Japanese Lap-Dogs (Dyso- 

 dus, Cope), in all of which, as in these fishes, the anterior cranial 

 and facial bones have been greatly modified. 



The preceding explanation seemed necessary in order to empha- 

 size the doctrine that paired fins might be evolved from the sides of 

 the tail as supposed by Dohrn and Mayer, by the median fusion of 

 the ventral fin-folds, which, according to their views, were primor- 

 dially double and lateral. It follows from this doctrine, that the nerves 

 passing to the musculature of the anal and caudal pairs of fins, must 

 be considered as forming two additional plexuses, neither of which 

 can by any mode of torturing the facts, be rendered homologous 

 with those which supply the pectoral or ventral pairs, 

 III. Consequences of the preceding data. 



The facts presented above seem to me to lead to the conclusion 

 that the ichthyopterygium in Fishes is very far from representing 

 the same or homologous structure ; a view which the ontogeny of 

 the higher vertebrates fully confirms. While the first point has 

 been admitted by Mi'vart, Huxley and others, the second has not 

 received the attention which its importance demands. The fact that 

 the rudiments of the paired limbs do not normally arise in a homo- 

 nymous position or at the same points along the axis in Mammals, 

 Birds, Reptiles, Amphibia, etc., and without any manifest action of 

 translocation during development, seems to the Avriter to preclude 

 the possibility of our assuming that there has existed a common and 

 exactly homologous, ancestral chiropterygium, from which the limbs 

 of vertebrates, from Amphibians upward, have been evolved. There 

 are many difficulties in the way of an answer to this question. 

 First of all, the universally admitted fact that similar structures may 

 be developed under similar conditions in widely dissimilar types. 

 Secondly, the utter want of exact homology when the pro- meso- and 

 metapterygium are compared. Thirdly, the few unassailable facts 

 which we possess in regard to undoubted instances of the transloca- 

 tion of limb rudiments. Fourthly, the origin, by coalescence, of an 

 indefinite number of radii to form the pro- meso- and metapterygium. 

 Fifthly, the variations to which this coalescence is subject ; that is, 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 365 



posterior radii may be swept forward proximally or anterior ones 

 may be swept backward proximally ; or both processes may occur 

 simultaneously ; or certain radii may be so accelerated in their growth 

 and others so retarded as to give rise to a uniserial or biserial pe- 

 dunculate limb. Sixthly, the evidence as to occurrence of the abor- 

 tion and extensive loss of radii in any part of the ichthyopterygium 

 is clear, as well as the frequent dichotomous subdivision of the dis- 

 tal ends of single radii* as in the pectorals of Raia, and cephalic 

 fins of Torpedo. Such secondary or divided radii may indeed be 

 homologous with the digits of higher forms, as it seems might be 

 countenanced by the fact that the limbs of some Amphibia have but 

 two digits at first, and that the others afterwards bud out at one 

 side or edge as was first noted by Prof. Baird, and subsequently con- 

 firmed by Cope and Baur. Such a view is also to some degree coun- 

 tenanced by the manner in which supernumerary digits develop in 

 Amphibia and by the simple structure and variability of the manus 

 and pes of Amphiuma or ifuraenopsis. Seventhly, the obviously 

 compound nature of the mesopterygium of Polypterus as is proved 

 by the presence of serially or segmentally arranged foramina, per- 

 forating it for the passage of nerves, and which has been supposed 

 to be shoved outward to give rise to the intermedium, which in 

 the chiropterygium, must accordingly represent twelve fused radii, 

 whereas, it ought not at most, represent more than three or four. 

 Eighthly, the lack of correspondence or agreement in the structure of 

 the tarsi and carpi of higher forms, some of which are believed to pre- 

 sent traces of not less than six digits ; and in others as many as seven, 

 and the impossibility of determining with absolute certainty, the 

 homologues of the tarsal and carpal bones, as the centrale is some- 

 times represented by two elements or is so obscured as to be too in- 

 distinct to be clearly made out ; the same may be said of the inter- 

 medium. Ninthly, the impossibility of determining from which bor- 

 der of the primitive fold the elision or abortion of radii first began, 

 owing to the fact that the torsion of the fold on its own base, does not 

 always appear to occur or at least is not recapitulated, this torsion 

 varies from 90° to nothing at all. Whether the suppression of radii 

 was metapterygial or propterygial at first, we cannot now determine 

 with certainty, and all that we can justly say is, that it has probably 

 occurred on both borders in various types, and to the extent of a 



*The radii of Elasmobranchs as here understood are in no sense the homo- 

 logues of the rays of Teleosts, which are mainly derived from actinutrichia. 




366 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



variable number of radii in different cases. Tenthly, if the digits of 

 Ligher forms represent the distal extremities of one or two dichoto- 

 mously divided single rays, each derived from a single somite, it is 

 not possible to state with certainty to which order of secondary 

 branches they belong, because the epiphyses and diaphyses of the 

 proximal long bones may represent elements which should be taken 

 into account. The digits would probably represent the second sub- 

 division, if the epiphyses of the long bones were thrown out of the 

 reckoning. 



The following suggestion seems very important. The manifest 

 impossibility of deriving a chii'opterygium from a given or known 

 uniserial or biserial ichthyopterygium, which will serve as a start- 

 ing point for the limbs of all known higher vertebrates, forcibly im- 

 presses the conclusion that, firstly, the limbs of all vertebrates are 

 not necessarily exactly homologous and that, secondly, the chirop- 

 terygium has in all probability been independently developed sev- 

 eral times and indirectly from different segments along the sides of 

 the primitive vertebrate body. 



The importance of this conclusion, as qualifying the prevalent 

 doctrines regarding the homologies of the limbs of vertebrates, may 

 be inferred since it has been found by Albertina Carlson (Kongl, 

 Svensk. Vet. Akad. Handl. xi, 1887,) that in the Ophidia the post- 

 plexus may be developed opposite the intervals between the 275th, 

 to the 278th, vertebrae. Besides this. Miss Carlson has shown that 

 there is great variation in the position of the postplexus in different 

 genera of Ophidians. 



It seems almost unnecessary to note here, that the modifications of 

 the position of the limb in reference to the same segments along the 

 body, also implicates the homologies of the muscles and blood vascu- 

 lar supply. 



The view which has been suggested above as to the origin of the 

 limbs of the higher vertebrates, implies that the distinction between 

 the uniserial and biserial archipterygium is simply formal; that 

 whether a fin shall become provided with series of radii on one or 

 both sides depends on the manner in which coalescence of the pri- 

 mary radii took place ; whether, in fact, from one or both borders. 

 The usual type in Elasmobranchs occurred by coalescence from be- 

 hind. In Raia coalescence occurred from both the anterior and pos- 

 terior borders of the pectoral as shown by its ontogeny, giving rise 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 367 



to a imiserial (anterior) iDropterygiuni, and a similar (posterior) 

 metapterygium. 



The cause of such coalescence has been in part, that other adjacent 

 functionally active parts pressed upon the radii which were growing 

 at an accelerated rate. The mode in which the radii composing the 

 fins were functional was also active in promoting coalescence, in fact, 

 there is no reason to doubt that almost exactly the same arrangement 

 of forces was potent in inducing the displacement forward of the prox- 

 imal ends of the posterior radii of the pectoral and pelvic fins, as in 

 the case of the caudal, as the writer has attempted to show in his 

 essay on the origin of heterocercy. This is also strikingly shown in 

 the dorsal and anal fins of some species. The increased pressure or 

 resistance exerted by the surrounding water on the hinder lower 

 quarter of the vertical or lateral fins while in action would constantly 

 tend, owing to the peculiar flexures assumed by the surfaces of the 

 fins while in motion, to shove the hinder border forwards and carry 

 the basal ends of the hinder radii forwards. The method of this 

 might be shown by means of a diagram, in which the force exerted 

 by the fin was one side and the resistence of the water the other side 

 of a parallelogram of forces, while the direction in which the base of 

 the fin was constantly tending to be displaced, would be determined by 

 the resultant acting against the hinder lower margin of the fin. The 

 alternating direction of the stroke of the fin does not impair the 

 eflBciency of this set of active forces, but makes them more efficient, 

 since, though the action of the forces is alternately reversed as respects 

 the directions in which they act, the effect is the same. 



This hypothesis of the origin of the uniserial fin applies to all its 

 types, whether encountered in the dorsal finlets of Polypterus or in 

 the paired fins of Elasmobranchs, Chondrosteans and Chimseroids. 

 It also leads up to a more comprehensive theory of the origin of all 

 the modifications of the fins, as seen in the diverse types of fishes. 



As to the chiropterygium, we are warranted in the affirmation 

 that, whether it has arisen from the dichotomous division of the dis- 

 tal portion of a separate and single ray, or of two rays, or by the 

 modification of the distal radii of a uniserial metapterygium, or of 

 the distal end of a biserial metapterygium, our difficulties are pretty 

 much the same. And, while the view that those limbs which seem 

 to show traces of the plan of the chiropterygium, have probably 

 arisen from some type approximating the metapterygium of some 

 Elasmobranchs, we must admit that we cannot, for lack of evidence, 




368 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1887. 



specify the particular type of metapterygium and over what jDartic- 

 ular somites it was primarily attached, nor even, indeed, that partic- 

 ular radii, with terminal dichotomous divisions, may not have been 

 equally well adapted to furnish the morphological foundation of the 

 chiropterygium and the endless variety of terminal modifications of 

 the fore-and-hind-limbs of the higher vertebrates. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 369 



PKOLONGED LIFE OF INVERTEBRATES : NOTES ON THE AGE AND 

 HABITS OF THE AMERICAN TARANTULA. 



BY HENRY C. MCCOOK, D. D. 



Until very lately little has been known concerning the possibilities 

 of prolonged life among the lower orders of animals. It is well 

 known that the waste of life is very great in the natural conditions 

 surrounding most inferior creatures, so that the immense fecundity 

 of insects and araneads, for example, is abundantly checked. I have 

 counted over eleven hundred eggs and young spiders in the single 

 egg-cocoon of the Bank Argiope, Arglope riparia, yet one of the 

 rarest finds for an observer is a very young individual of this common 

 species. In eiforts to breed spiders from the cocoon, I have at various 

 times seen colonies numbering one hundred or more dispersed from 

 the maternal egg nest to the surrounding foliage, of which during 

 the year not a single survivor could be traced. 



Bee keepers are well aware of the great mortality among working 

 bees, caused not only by disease and accidents, but especially by 

 those enemies which prey upon them. Ants are quite as much, per- 

 haps even more exposed to loss from accidents, the exigencies of 

 weather and the appetites of various insectivorous animals. There 

 is, therefore, abundant occasion for the seemingly exhaustless fertil- 

 ity of the queen mothers of formicaries. These queens probably 

 have a longer life than the workers. They are larger in size and 

 apparently organized for more vigorous resistance of the influences 

 which work for their destruction. Moreover, the instinct of the 

 workers has provided a system of preservation by surrounding the 

 queen with a guard of attendants which never leave her unprotected, 

 which care for all her wants, and vigilantly separate her by a reg- 

 ular system of seclusion within the portals of the formicary, from 

 many influences which would prove hostile to health and fatal to 

 life. 



I. Sir John Lubbock's Aged Ant Queen. 



How long an ant queen may live in entirely natural habitat is 

 unknown, and perhaps cannot be determined. But recently through 

 the patience and ingenuity of Sir John Lubbock, we have learned 

 that under artificial protection both workers and queens of certain 

 species may attain a great age. Nearly six years ago I had the 

 privilege of visiting this distinguished naturalist at his country seat. 

 High Elms, Kent, and examining, under his personal direction, his 




370 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



artificial formicaries and the mode in which they are preserved. At 

 that time I saw a queen of the Fuscous ant, Formica fusca, which 

 was nearly eight years old. During the past summer (1887) I again 

 visited Sir John at his house in London, and on inquiry after the 

 aged queen, which I supposed to be still living, was informed that 

 it had died the day before, having at the time reached the wonder- 

 ful age of more than thirteen years. I was permitted to see this 

 venerable queen as she lay in death on the floor of one of the wide 

 chambers which the workers had excavated in the soil compacted 

 between glass plates that bounded their formicary. She was still 

 attended by the circle of "courtiers," which, according to my pub- 

 lished observations,^ are in the habit of waiting continually upon 

 ant queens. Some of these attendants I saw licking the dead queen, 

 or touching her with their antennae and making other demonstrations 

 as though soliciting her attention or desiring to wake her out of sleep. 

 "They do not appear to have discovered that she is really dead," 

 remarked Sir John. And so indeed it seemed. It was certainly a 

 touching sight to witness these faithful attendants surrounding the 

 dead body of one who had so long presided over the maternal des- 

 tinies of the colony, and seeking by their caresses to evoke the at- 

 tention which never again could respond to their solicitations.^ 



Such experiments as the above clearly indicate that artificial en- 

 vironment may have a beneficial influence upon insects as well as 

 doTiiestic animals, and that the interference of human intelligence 

 may be a preservative factor as well as a destructive one in the 

 lives of even our most lowly organized fellow creatures. 



While awaiting with great interest the details of the life history 

 of this venerable sovereign of the emmet world, which Sir John 

 Lubbock will doubtless publish, I venture to note the simple fact of 

 her prolonged life as an introduction to some facts in the same line 

 of observation, but relating to a spider. 



II. Long Life of a Spider. 



Early in the year 1872, I received from Dr. Joseph Leidy a spec- 

 imen of our common American 'species of the Theraphosoidse, first 

 described and known as Mygale Hentzii, and popularly called the 

 tarantula. This animal was given to Prof. Leidy by a young friend 

 and turned over to me with the request that at its death the specimen 



1 "Honey and Occident Ants" Chap, iv, p. 41 and PI. VI, fig. 29. 



2 See note at end of paper. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 371 



should be returned to liim.^ As the individual seemed to be in good' 

 health, I preserved its life in order to gain information as to its 

 habits and vital endurance. It was first placed in a large glass 

 fish globe on a bed of earth, where it was kept for more than 

 a year. It was then transferred to a wooden box made with 

 glazed slides and a sliding glass door at the top, the whole being 

 eighteen inches long, twelve inches wide and ten high. One 

 end was filled with dry soil which was slightly compacted and 

 heaped up ; the other end was sparsely covered with earth. There 

 was thus presented a bit of level space for a water trough, for exer- 

 cise etc., and full opportunity for the spider to burrow should it be 

 inclined to its natural tastes. The animal was kept in this box un- 

 til mid-summer of the present year. I last saw it early in July, just 

 prior to my departure for England. On June 22nd, 1887, I made 

 this note: ''This spider which has been kept ever since 1882 is to- 

 day in good health. It is on the outside of the earth moundlet in 

 its box looking hearty after the winter's fiist. It has had nothing 

 to eat since October last — at least eight months, but has had water 

 freely. Some flies have been put into it lately, but I do not know 

 that they have been eaten." The spider was then left in the care 

 of my friend, Professor Fronani, who for several summers, while at 

 work in the Library hall of the Academy, had kindly cared for it 

 during my absence, giving it water and feeding it with insects, par- 

 ticularly grass-hoppers, or locusts. 



On my return from abroad I was met at the Academy by the in- 

 telligence that my tarantula was dead. It had descended into the 

 burrow, Avhich for several years it had maintained close to the side 

 of the box, about the end of July, and since then had not come up. 

 Looking into the box I could see against the glass what appeared 

 to be the fragments of the moulted skin on one side of the cavity, 

 and on the other side the outlines of the creature's dead body. Prof. 

 Leidy, from whom the animal had been received, and after whom I 

 had named it, (a name being convenient for familiar reference,) hap- 

 pened to be in the Library hall at the time I took up the remains 

 of the spider from its burrow. We found the carcass already partly 

 decomposed and being preyed upon by dermestid larvae. Close be- 

 side it were the fragments of its cast skin. It had evidently died 

 shortly after moulting. 



1 It was captured about the beginning of April 1882, at Hill's Ferry, Stanislaus 

 Co., California, was kept in a bottle without food for two weeks, then sent to 

 Prof. G. E. H. Weaver at Media, then a student in Swarthmore College. Mr. 

 Weaver fed it on beefsteak which it took readilv. 




372 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Reckoning its death as having occurred at the close of July 1887, 

 the spider was five years and three months iu my possession. I have 

 not suiBcient data to estimate accurately the rapidity of growth in 

 this species, but judging from such facts and indications as I have 

 observed, I do not hesitate to reckon the animal to have been from 

 eighteen months to two years old Avhen I received it from Dr. Leidy. 

 At the period of its death, therefore, it must have been at least seven 

 years old, and may have been eight. It has thus attained the dis- 

 tinction of having reached the greatest age of any spider known to 

 science. How long this species and members of the Theraphosoidse 

 generally live in their natural habitat is of course unknown. I have 

 no doubt that they live much longer than spiders of the other great 

 sections or groups, but am inclined to think that it is not usual for 

 them to reach such on age as my tarantula "Leidy." In its case, 

 as in that of Sir John Lubbock's queen ant, human protection 

 probably aided to prolong life. 



Such observations as have heretofore been made upon the age of 

 spiders fall in with the general indications as to their vital endur- 

 ance made by the prolonged age of this tarantula. Blackwall, 

 the veteran British araneologist, kept spiders of the species Tegenaria 

 dowestica and T. civilis to the age of four years.^ Moggridge made 

 a calculation upon the age of trap-door spiders based upon the aver- 

 age growth in the nests of the young, for he established the fact 

 which has subsequently been confirmed that the young spider instead 

 of abandoning its nest enlarges it with its growth. The conclusion 

 of this calculation was that it took at least four years to produce a 

 full size trap-door nest, and of consequence the architect must be at 

 least that old.^ The most recent information upon this point is given 

 by Mr. Fredrick Enock in a paper published two years ago.' 

 This observer in an extended and interesting communication upon 

 the habits of the British Atypus speaks of one individual which he 

 had in his possession over three years, and which, judging from its 

 size when first captured, he puts at the age of six years. Other 

 examples which had been under observation for more than two 

 years were well grown when first transferred to his artificial colony, 



1 "Spiders of Great Britian an ' Ireland." p. 8. 



2 Moggridge. '"Harvesting Ants and Trap-door Spiders." p. 127. 



3 "The Life-History of Atypus. piceus, Suiz." Transactions Entomological 

 Society of London. 1885. p. 416. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 373 



and at the date of his paper, June 1885, were still in good health. 

 He ventures the inference that Atypus is about four years in 

 reaching maturity, then retains her young for eighteen months 

 under her care before turning them out to shift for themselves, and 

 after that lives in vigorous health for a period which he believes 

 may sometimes reach the advanced age of ten years. 



I may add here, as in the same line of research, that Dr. George 

 H. Horn a distinguished authority in the Coleoptera, has called 

 ray attention to the fact that a female of Cybister roeselii was 

 preserved for eight years of continuous life by Dr. David Sharp. 



As has been stated, my tarantula died in the act of or in conse- 

 quence of casting its skin. It has usually been accepted as a fact 

 that the final moult of spiders is made just before the attainment of 

 maturity. Unfortunately the decayed condition of the carcass does 

 not permit me to determine the question in the case of this particu- 

 lar individual. But these interesting queries are suggested : did the 

 artificial conditions of the spider's life so influence its organism as 

 to retard the functions that result in the act of moulting? Are we 

 therefore to consider this final moult, accomplished at the age of 

 seven years or thereabouts, to have been abnormal as to the time of 

 its occurrence ? Or, may we infer that this represents the normal 

 periodicity of moulting and of consequence that the mature spiders 

 of this family, which are so frequently taken in various parts of the 

 earth, are all of them as old as the one whose history I have been 

 noting ? 



III. Habits of the American Tarantula. 



1 . Moulting and its dangers. — During its confinement "Leidy " shed 

 its skin several times. The first moult occurred sometime in August 

 1882. I had been absent on my usual summer vacation and return- 

 ing August 31st, saw the animal lying on the soil about the middle 

 of its glass nest with its feet gathered together looking dull, gray 

 and faded out — apparently dead. I shook the globe. No response 

 was made by any action, and as I was at the time in a great hurry, 

 I left without more careful observation, concluding that the spider 

 was dead. I was not able to visit it again until the fifth day of 

 September following. I threw off" the cover of the globe and put 

 my hand in to take out the dead body, which lay apparently in the 

 same position, in order to preserve it in alcohol. As I touched it 

 the animal leaped to its feet, and as I hastily withdrew my hand 

 thankful for the danger which I had escaped, for the creature bears 




374 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1887. 



a poisonous fang, it presented itself quite changed in appearance. 

 The body was of a fresh, bright color, the cophal thorax a clean 

 whitish gray, the head and fangs dark brown. The abdomen was 

 black with brown hairs covering it. The legs were black with 

 yellowish brown hairs and spines. I at once understood that the 

 spider when first seen was in the torpid condition which usually 

 immediately precedes the act of moulting. In the interval between 

 my visits it had cast off its skin which I found lying in a tolerably 

 complete condition on one side of the glass. The spinnerets and 

 abdomen were entirely unbroken, the spider having evidently 

 escaped therefrom by pulling its abdomen forward. (Fig. 1). 



^?S^; 



Fig. 1. Moult of Tarantula showing mode of Escape. 

 The dorsum of the cephalthorax was attached to the upper part of 

 the abdomen, and the sternum to the lower part, showing that the 

 fore part of the skin had cracked around the median line of the 

 cephalthorax. The feet and legs were attached to the sternum, and 

 on one side the casts were entirely complete. 



The death of this tarantula is another example of a fact which I 

 have previously observed, that the act of moulting is frequently 

 attended by dangers of one kind or another to spiders. It is common 

 to find specimens without one or more limbs, also with distorted and 

 abbreviated limbs. I have frequently found males lacking several 

 legs. The theory commonly adopted is that in most of these cases 

 the loss has resulted from conflicts, perhaps among rival lovers in 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 375 



attendance upon the same female. Something of loss may be attri- 

 buted to this cause, but I am fcatisfied that in a much larger degree 

 losses and malformations are due to the accidents of moulting. One 

 example I may cite, the loss of two limbs experienced by a large 

 tarantula which I had kept under observation; for during the last 

 few years I have had a number of these large creatures in artificial 

 nests. This spider lay upon its back during part and on its side 

 during the remainder of the time of moulting. The skin was cast 

 by a succession of movements of the body or parts of the body re- 

 curring at regular intei'vals reminding one of labor pains among 

 mammals. For some reason two of the legs refused to separate 

 from the skin and after a prolonged struggle they Avere broken off 

 at the coxae, and remained within the moult. One foot of another 

 leg shared the same fate. This moult occurred in the spring; during 

 the latter aprt of August of the same year the spider again moulted. 

 The moult w'as a perfect cast of the animal, the skin, spines, claws 

 and the most delicate hairs all showing, and their corresponding origi- 

 nals appeared bright and clean upon the spider. When the cast off 

 skin was removed the dissevered members were lacking thereon, but 

 on the spider itself new limbs had appeared, perfect in shape but 

 smaller than the corresponding ones on the opposite side of the body. 

 The dissevered foot was also restored. The rudimentary legs had 

 evidently been folded up within the coxae, and appeared at once 

 after the moult, rapidly filling out in a manner perhaps somew^hat 

 analogous to the expansion of wdngs in insects after emerging.^ 



It is possible that my tarantula "Leidy" was too much exhausted 

 by long previous fasting to endure the severe strain which evidently 

 is laid upon the organism in the act of moulting, although judging 

 from the disjecta membra of the skin recovered from the burrow it 

 had succeeded in casting them all off without any mutilation. The 

 Spring of 1887 was a backwai-d one, and I experienced great diffi- 

 culty in procuring insects for food from the immediate neighborhood. 

 The annual supply of grass-hoppers and locusts upon Avhich I had 

 relied came very late. Perhaps had the spider been strengthened 

 by a few week's generous feeding previous to its last moult, it might 

 still have been alive. 



2. How to keep spiders alive. — I may say here that my experience 

 in keeping other large spiders is that there is quite as much danger 

 from over-feeding as under-feeding. I have found the best success 



^ See Proceedings Academy of Natural Sciences Philadelphia, 1883. p. 19(5. 




376 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1887. 



by giving a generous supply of living food during the summer and 

 early autumn, and withholding food almost entirely during the 

 remainder of the year. I was particular, however, to keep a vessel 

 continually supplied with fresh water within the box. Spiders 

 retjuire water quite as much as other animals, and failure to keep 

 them supplied will be fatal to health and life. I have sometimes 

 succeeded in temj^tiug a tarantula to suck the juice of a bit of raw 

 beef, but the only food that can be relied upon is living insects; and 

 the spiders appear to be able to lay up within the four or five months 

 of summer enough nourishment, in connection with a free supply of 

 water, to last them during the entire year. They do not become 

 torpid in the winter time, it should be said, but remain active 

 throughout the entire season, provided they are kept in a room 

 heated to a moderate temperature. If exposed to severe cold they 

 are soon benumbed, but quickly recover when again brought into a 

 warm atmosphere. 



When the spider was disposed to feed, an insect was seized with 

 the fore legs, palps and mandibles, which rapidly conveyed it to the 

 mouth against which it was held by the palps which also turned the 

 carcass as the spider had occasion, aided by the mandibles, the 

 latter crushing the victim meanwhile. (Fig. 2). On one occasion 



Fig. 2. Tarantula feeding upon a locust. — The white Silken rug shown. 




1887.] NATURAL SCrENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 377 



while in the act of feeding upon a locust a second individual 

 approcached near enough to be seized It was put upon the ground 

 where it was held down until the spider, moving slowly around, 

 overspun and swathed it, evidently reserving it for future use. 



3. Spinning and Spinning work. — The central space of the little 

 mound in the box was usually kept covered with a white sheeted 

 web, suggesting the idea of a rug, upon which the creature loved to 

 rest. If this were removed or covered over with dirt it was restored 

 by the spider in a little while. In the act of spinning, the long 

 inferior spinnerets were curved upward, and from the spinning tubes 

 along the exterior part gave out numerous fine threads. These were 

 attached to the ground by the downward motion of the spinnerets. 

 The abdomen Avas lifted up, the threads were thus drawn out, the 

 downward motion repeated, and simultaneously the end of the 

 abdomen with the spinnerets attached received a lateral motion 

 which caused the threads to be spread over the surface of the 

 ground. At the same time the animal slowly moved its whole body 

 around as upon a pivot, thus dispersing the silk over a circular 

 patch of the surface, about equal in diameter to twice the length of 

 its body, or to the spread of its legs. (See Fig. 2). At times a 

 Aveb much more open in texture would be found spread more or 

 less freely over nearly the whole surface of the soil. 



It has been said that when the white central rug became soiled 

 by dirt or food debris it was soon over spread with a clean layer. 

 In course of time the top of the mound in "Leidy's" box became 

 thus covered with a thick mass of intermingled silk and clay which 

 I easily removed and have preserved intact. The piece represents 

 nearly the compass of the central rug, and is a curious compound of 

 intermingled soil and silk. It is a fact that the remarkable hinged 

 door which the trap-door spider attaches to her burrow is made up 

 of alternate layere of silk and soil. If one were inclined to specu- 

 lation, or to a "scientific use of the imagination," he might raise the 

 inquiry: may not the the trap-doors spiders have found in some 

 such accidentally formed texture the original suggestion of her mud- 

 and-silk door ? On the other hand, one might also wonder why the 

 tarantula and, in fact, other spiders with equal facilities of like 

 nature have not developed some trace of the same habit ? 



Two locusts were once placed in the box at a part where the 

 threads were numerous, one of which was soon entangled in the 

 spinning work and began to struggle for freedom. Tarantula was 



25 




378 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1887. 



on the mound about ten inches distant and moved slowly towards 

 the insect, creeping, crouching, evidently directed by the agitated 

 web. It was very tardy in its approach and my attention was 

 unavoidably diverted, but shortly afterward I saw the spider 

 devouring the locust. The question was raised, does the tarantula 

 in natural site take its prey in this way, by lines spread before its 

 deu or elsewhere upon the surface of the ground ? Mr. Bates 

 appears to have the opinion that the web of the large Brazilian 

 tarantula is used to capture prey; at least, he speaks of birds 

 entangled therein and fed upon by the spider.^ 



The thick texture of the sheeted web is produced by the act of 

 beating downward with the long spinnerets, repeated motions of 

 which up and down make little loops which thicken over the surface 

 and are beaten down and then smoothed over by the spinnerets. 

 (Fig. 3.) The action does not greatly differ from that of all other 



Fig. 3. Spinning the rug; use of the long spinnerets. 

 spiders while engaged uj)on similar spinning work. In the act of 

 spinning, tarantula frequently reaches one hind claw to the spin- 

 nerets and makes a series of rapid strokes, then stretches out the 

 foot as though carrying the thread with it. It would appear to be 

 intended thus to draw out the silk from the spinning tubes, but the 

 motion was so rapid that I never could exactly make out its full 

 purpose or determine whether it might not be a mode of clearing 



1 The Naturalist on the Amazon, ii, p. 58. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 379 



out or rearranging the spinning tubes and surrounding spines; in 

 other words, the adjustment of the spinning machinery. 



4. Character of the Nest and mode of burrowing. — The opinion 

 prevails largely that the tarantula, Mygale Hentzii, makes a trap- 

 door nest, and it has not been an uncommon thing for me to meet 

 tourists who had purchased in California specimens of trap-door 

 nests, and at the same time a specimen of the large tarantula which 

 the sellers claimed had made it.^ 



I am satisfied by my long continued observations of these crea- 

 tures in confinement, as well as by authentic reports from various 

 persons, that they make no trap-door, and that their only nest is a 

 burrow in the ground. Dr. J. Rowland, of Media, Pa., Avho has 

 several times visited Los Angelos, informs me that the tarantula is 

 there found in holes covered with a slight web. A little mound of 

 fresh earth is thrown up around the surface edge of the hole which 

 is merely covered over by a delicate web. There is no trap-door 

 to this den, which is a burrow about an inch and a quarter in diam- 

 eter extending downward from ten to twenty inches in depth. The 

 boys bring the spiders up by pouring water down the holes. The 

 great creatures burst out of the open gate, spread their long legs and 

 hurry away, and are then easily captured. According to Mr. G. 

 W. Holstein who has frequently observed them in Texas they live 

 in holes about one and an eighth inch in diameter which appear to 

 have a white silky lining and are generally found in sandy soil. 

 One burrow dug up by his brother was ten inches deep; was desti- 

 tute of a lining, but at the bottom there appeared some sort of a 

 nest. When disturbed the creatures run into holes formed by the 

 weathering out of fossils &c. At Los Angelos the animals are 

 found at times occupying gopher holes. 



1 Professor Spencer F. Baird, the late distinguished and lamented Secretary of 

 the Smithsonian Institution, entertained this opinion, and when I once questioned, 

 u, thought he had specimens in the museum at Washington that would prove it. 

 He subsequently wrote me: "I did not find in any of the California nests any 

 remains of spiders at all but we have two from Jamaica which still have large 

 hairy spiders in them. These nests are much more slender than those from Cali- 

 foinia. I shall be pleased to show them to you whenever you visit Washington. 

 I cannot send them as they are too fragile for transmission." I have not yet had 

 the opportunity of examining these specimens, but think that they will be found to 

 belong to the genus Nemesia or Cteniza, and are not true tarantulas. 




380 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Mr. Bates describes spiders of this family (Mygale Blondii and M. 

 avicularia) as inhabiting broad tubular galleries smoothly lined 

 with silken webs. The galleries are two inches in diameter and 

 run in a slanting direction about two feet.^ Again he speaks 

 of them as spreading a thick web beneath a deep crevice in trees, 

 and having their cells under stones.^ Once more in alluding to 

 their diversified habits he says that some species construct among 

 the tiles or thatch of houses dens of closely woven web which in 

 texture very much resembles fine muslin. From these domiciles 

 they invade the house apartments. Others, according to Mr. Bates 

 build similar nests in trees.^ I believe that it will be found that 

 the creatures that burrow in the earth are identical with those 

 which spread sheeted webs among the trees. Numbers of tarantulas 

 come to our port (Philadelphia) in fruit vessels, and are often found 

 in the great pendants of bananas, to which they had no doubt 

 resorted as a convenient field for capturing prey, and were them- 

 selves captured and shipped hidden away among the clusters of 

 fruit. 



In the case of the spider "Leidy" the only effort made at nest 

 building was a rude burrow which was excavated against one side 

 of the box and which in the course of time was extended downward 

 to the bottom of the box and laterally along the bottom either way, 

 thus forming an irregular cavity. Into this it frequently, descended, 

 dividing its time between the cave and the outside surface. This 

 burrow was entirely destitute of a silken lining, although occasion- 

 ally the opening at the surface would be overspun with a thin sheet 

 of spinning work. I have seen the same habit in other individuals 

 of the species kept in confinement. The only attempt at a nest ever 

 observed by me has been this burrow, with an occasional sheeted 

 closure, and rarely a slight silken lining of the interior of the burrow. 

 I believe, therefore, that the popular theory that the tarantula makes 

 a trap-door is without foundation in fact, and that its ordinary hab- 

 itat is a plain burrow like that made by most Lycosids. 



The mode of making the burrow was well observed by me at va- 

 rious times. In the act of digging, the spider first uses the two leg- 

 like palps, the digital brushes of which are well adapted for that 



1 Bates "The Naturalist on the Amazon" Vol. ii, p. 58. 



2 id. Vol. i, p. 161. 



3 id. Vol. i, p. 106. 




1887.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



381 



service. Then the two front feet are brought into play to gather up 

 the loose pellets of soil and scrape them into a ball. The first and 



.,,-;.?5?^/ 









<^^i4^i>*j'rv 



Fig. 4. Tarantula digging up and gathering a ball of earth to carry away. 



second pairs of legs now close up around and under the balled mass, 

 thus compressing it inside the mandibles. (Fig. 4.) AVhen the 

 pellets have thus been gathered and squeezed into a mass, they are held 

 within the extended mandibles, the palps in the meantime girdling 



them at the side and 

 lieneath, and so are 

 carried away from 

 tlie burrow to the 

 dumping ground. 

 (Fig. 5.) 



I never observed 

 any scratching and 

 scraping the dirt 



Fig. o. Mode of carrying excavated soil. backward in the 



fashion of a dog digging in a rabbit burrow, which is also the action 

 of ants, bees and wasps Avhen excavating the earth. Always the 

 pellets were deliberately loosened as I have indicated, squeezed to- 

 gether into a ball and carried off. During the act of digging, and 

 indeed quite habitually during all actions such as eating etc., the 




382 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1887. 



spider kept her spinnerets curved over the end of the abdomen with 

 a diverging ray of threads issuing therefrom and attached to the 

 surface beneath. 



5. Toilet Habits. — After digging, the palps were used to wipe off 

 the fore parts of the body, very much as a cat uses her paw for a 

 like purpose. The fore legs were placed against the palps and were 

 cleansed by rubbing the two together. The toilet was also accom- 

 plished by overlapping one leg with the other, the second leg over 

 the third, for example, and then rubbing the two as if a man were 

 to scratch his leg by drawing the inner surface of one along the front 

 surface of the other. The first leg was thus rubbed against the sec- 

 ond, of course being pressed down ujDon it meanwhile. The palp 

 too was thrown back to the first leg which it brushed ofi' in the same 

 manner. After digging in its burrow, "Leidy" was always quite 

 sure to cleanse its person, and by reason of its size the use of its 

 palps in wiping ofi" the fore part of its body presented a most amus- 

 ing likeness to the familiar action of jiussy when washing ofi" her 

 face with her paws. 



6. The character of the egg cocoon. — A large female tarantula was 

 sent to me from the West Indies, and arrived at the Academy during 

 a prolonged ab'^( n( "^ho (b 1' f i i i\ i tuin ind wa« presei ved 



Tig. G >„i)C()()ii .iiui eggs ol iaramuui. 



in spirits ; but aflTorded me an opportunity, which I had long desired, 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 383 



of determining the egg cocoon made by this family, the Therapho- 

 soidse. While cleaning out the box in which she had been sent I 

 observed a piece of sj)inning work within, which proved to be an 

 abandoned cocoon. It was much flattened, but when inflated 

 showed a hollow spheroid composed of thick silken cloth, somewhat 

 soiled on the outside, but within clean and white. It measured two 

 inches along the longer axis and li inch along the shorter one. It 

 was empty of young, whose first moults, however, were within the 

 cocoon, as were also a few unhatched eggs which are yellowish 

 spheres, two millimeters in diameter. Three small openings in 

 the case showed where the spiderlings had escaped. Both cocoon 

 and eggs are shown natural size in the accompanying figure. 

 (Fig. 6). 



The interior of this cocoon was without any flossy lining or 

 padding, resembling thus the egg sacs of the Lycosoidse generally. 

 A curious flap overlapped the cocoon at one side, whose use I could 

 not conjecture, unless it may have served to attach the object to the 

 mother's body; or, perhaps, it w^as simply a remnant of material 

 which had remained after the eggs were rolled up within the silken 

 rug upon which they are probably deposited after the manner which 

 I have shown to exist in the genus Lycosa} 



The janitor who received the box containing this spider and 

 placed it in my room Avas at the time new in his position and did 

 not understand the importance of observing all the particulars in 

 the habits of living creatures sent to the Academy. He therefore 

 failed to make any notes, but told me when questioned that he 

 believed that the cocoon was attached to the lower part of the body 

 of the spider when it arrived. No d oubt this is a correct observation, 

 and we may assume with some degree of certainty that the large 

 egg sac of the Theraphosids is carried by the mother lashed to the 

 spinnerets at the apex of the abdomen, precisely as in the case of 

 Lycosids, whose well known habit is familiar to every frequenter of 

 our fields. 



This cocoon is exhibited in my collection of Aranead architecture 

 deposited in the Academy, and is the only one, so far as I have been 

 able to learn, exhibited in any similar institution. Termeyer speaks 

 of cocoons of the My galidre of South America Q^Aranea avicularia") 

 even greater than the above. They are three inches long by one 



1 See Proceedings Academy Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 1884. Page 

 138, my nate on "How Lycosa Fabricates Her Round Cocoon". 




384 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



wide, and are placed in the fissures on the trunks of trees. They 

 contain thousands of eggs. This extraordinary size of the cocoon 

 had made the inhabitants who do not observe carefully, imagine 

 that this spider would take the cocoon of "the bombice moth, del 

 Guyavo (Jamts, Linn.)" and having destroyed or eaten the chrysalis 

 would place her own eggs therein, and then artificially close the 

 hole by which she had penetrated it. One of these cocoons weighs 

 as much as six cocoons of the silk worm when they are washed, and 

 as much as three or four after having been washed.' 



Madam Merian, who first recorded a report that the Theraphosoidse 

 prey upon small birds, must have observed the cocoon of these 

 spiders, as it seems to me. She indeed speaks of them as having 

 their domicile in a large round nest resembling the cocoon of a 

 caterpillar, but the plate to which she refers is a fairly accurate 

 figure of a female tarantula with a large oval cocoon attached to 

 her abdomen in the way usual to Lycosids.^ I have the opinion that 

 the egg cocoon of the spider was mistaken by Madamoiselle Merian 

 or her informants for a "domicile." At all events we may consider 

 that it is fairly well assured that, in her cocooning habits, the female 

 tarantula throughout most or perhaps all species, closely resembles 

 the Lycosoidse, and the resemblance probably extends to all the 

 Territelariffi. In other words, the Theraphosid cocoon is (1) 

 round or ovoid, (2) is carried about with the mother, attached to 

 her body, or kept under her care, and (3) the young for a period 

 longer or shorter remain with their mother. The affinity between 

 these two great groups of araneads is also marked in their nesting 

 habits; both burrow in the ground a cylindrical tunnel or shaft 

 within which they domicile, sometimes lining it more or less com- 

 pletely with silk.^ 



7. Attitude at rest and in attack. — While resting upon its silken 

 rug a favorite position of the tarantula was as follows: On one side 

 the first leg and the last leg were well extended, the feet were lifted 

 a little distance above the "-round. The second and third feet were 



1 Communications Essex Institute, Vol. v., 1866 — 67, p. 61. "Researches and 

 Experiments upon silk from Spiders and upon ttieir reproductions, by Raymond 

 M-iria de Termeyer." Translated from the Italian, and revised by Burl G. 

 Wdder. 



^ Dt'sertation sur la Generation et les Transformations des insects de Surinam. 

 Mariae Sibillae Merian. Ala Ilaye, mdocxxvi.; Fi<;. 18 and explication. 



^ I ]iur]iose tracing this resemblance more in detail in a subsequent paper on 

 "Nesting Habits of the American Purseweb Spider, Atypus niger." 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rHILADELPIIIA. 385 



placed upon the ground. On the opposite side, the legs rested upon 

 the surface. One of the palps was lifted up ; the other touched the 

 earth. Sometimes when slightly alarmed or its attention was 

 attracted by any noise or agitation, all the fore feet, the two pairs 

 on each side, as well as the j^alps, would be raised from the ground 

 and slightly thrown back. If the alarm or excitement increased 

 the whole fore part of the body would gradually be raised, the legs 

 ■ and palps thrown backward in a curved position, and the mandibles 

 also bent back, slightly separated and ready for striking. In this 

 rampant attitude the body rested upon the two hind pairs of legs 

 which were rather extended, and on the third pair which were 

 slightly bent and pressed firmly against the soil. As they were 

 more or less stiffened and straightened the body would be thrown 

 backward or dej)ressed. This was the position invariably taken by 

 the tarantula when angry, and from this position it would spring 

 forward and strike any object which excited its wrath, or Avhich it 

 wished to destroy. 



Having struck out, which was done by bringing down palps, fore 

 paws and fangs together upon the victim, the creature sank back 

 into its rampant position. If so inclined it could rapidly repeat 

 this movement. The whole attitude was an admirable expression 

 of iuiger and readiness to strike for defence or offence. In the fine 

 muscular exhiliration imparted by the creature's passion, the limbs 

 assumed such graceful curves, and the pose of the body showed so 

 happy a combination of vigor and ease, that the formidable spider 

 really looked beautiful. It could stand in this rampant attitude 

 with motionless rigidity for many minutes. 



Among these notes of the general habits of the tarantula I may 

 place the following, also communicated to me by Mr. Holstein. 

 His observation of the tarantulas in Texas convinces him that they 

 are very irritable. They will jump at least ten inches if they are 

 excited thereto by sticks, although they are otherwise not inclined 

 to be troublesome. He has known them to jump almost as high as 

 his horse's knee. In the sandy country along the Colorado River 

 in Texas they ai'e very numerous, and one became so enraged one 

 day as to run up the horse of one of the company as far as the 

 shoulder before it was knocked off. Some Texans say that it is an 

 infallible sign of rain to see these creatures crawling about freely. 



I have myself captured them in Texas without difficulty, but 

 was never able to find anything satisfactory as to their field habits 




386 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



except the fear which they show when the famous wasp popularly 

 called "the tarantula killer," Pomp ilus for mosus, happens to be in 

 the neighborhood. The excited haste with which the huge spider 

 hurries off into hiding, when one of these formidable hymenopters 

 is near is a very striking sight/ 



1 The following note was received from the author of the above paper just as 

 the printed pages were going to press, and work thereon has been stopped in order 

 to admit the explanation. — The Editor. 



Dr. Edward J. Nolan, 

 Dear Sir: — 



I have this morning received a note from Sir John Lubbock dated 

 January 6th, in which he says "My old ant queen is still alive, but 

 I fear a little stiff." 



I am not able to explain the discrepancy between this statement 

 and the account given of the apparent death of the same insect in 

 my paper (page 370). It is evident, however, that both Sir John 

 and myself were deceived by what must have been a transient sus- 

 pension of activity. I saw the ant, and carefully observed it for five 

 minutes or more, and am confident that it had the undoubted 

 appearance of death. ■ Sir John must have been laboring under the 

 same mistake for at least a day. 



I have no explanation of the phenomenon which thus deceived 

 one of the most careful observers of emmet habits iii England, to say 

 nothing of myself. I await anxiously the explanation, for which I 

 have written, of this apj^arent "resurrection," but in the meantime 

 am desirous that some statement shall be got into or attached to my 

 paper, to modify in accordance with present facts what I therein 

 say. 



If the work has not too far j^rogressed to allow this, will you 

 please see that this note or the substance thereof, is inserted at the 

 end of the paper. 



Very truly yours, 



Henry C. McCook. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 387 



DESCKIPTION OF TWO NEW SPECIES OF FISHES FROM 

 SOUTH AMERICA. 



BY DAVID STARR JORDAN. 

 Cristiceps eigenmanni, sp. nov. 



Head 4 in length to base of caudal ; depth 4. D. III-XXIX, 2 : 

 A. 27 or 28. Scales in lateral line about 80. Type No. 12556 

 M. C. Z. 



Body rather stout, compressed. Eye nearly twice as long as the 

 sharp snout. Maxillary reaching to about opposite front of pupil. 

 Tentacle on top of head small, shorter than pupil. Hook on shoul- 

 der-girdle obsolete, the structure as in Lahrosomus. First dorsal 

 rather low, scarcely joined to second ; soft dorsal of two veiy evident 

 soft rays. Scales very small. Pectoral a little shorter than head. 

 Color (in spirits) brown, much mottled, some dark cross-bars espe- 

 cially distinct on dorsal and anal ; five of these on second dorsal, 

 one on first dorsal, one on base of caudal, six on anal. Caudal and 

 pectorals pale, finely barred. No dark ocellus on dorsal or anal. 



The type of this species, 2 2 inches in length, was dredged by the 

 Hassler, off" Bermeja Head in Northeastern Patagonia (Lat. 41° 

 17m. S : Long. 63° AV"). It is in good condition, and it is numbered 

 12556 on the register of the Museum of Comparative Zoology. I 

 have named the species for my former assistant, Mr. Carl H. Eigen- 

 mann, who has contributed a good deal to our knowledge of the 

 fishes of tropical America. 



The species resembles AuchenojJterus {Cremnohates) marmoratus, 

 but the scales are much smaller than in Auchenopterus. 



Mycteroperca xenarcha. sp. nov. 



Head 21 in length to base of caudal; depth 3. D. XI. 16. A. 

 Ill, 11. Scales 110 to 115. Length of specimen especially de- 

 scribed (24198, Museum of Comj^arative Zoology, from James Island, 

 Galapagos) seven inches. 



Allied to Mycteroperca honaci and Mycteroperca falcata. 



Body rather deej) and compressed ; head compressed, with rather 

 short, sharp snout, which is 4] in head ; profile depressed above eye. 

 Mouth large, the maxillary reaching beyond eye, 2to in head. Low- 

 er canines small ; upper canines (two in number) strong, scarcely 

 directed forward. Eye small, 62 in head. Preorbital narrow, f 

 width of eye. Interorbital area flattish, its width 6 in head. Nos- 




388 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



trils small, the posterior scarcely the larger, separated from the an- 

 terior by one diameter, Angle of preopercle scarcely salient, but 

 provided with coarser teeth ; a rather sharp notch above it. Gill 

 rakers moderate. X-|-18. Scales moderate, scarcely ctenoid. 



Dorsal spines low, the outline of the sjDinous dorsal gently con- 

 vex, the fourth spine longest, 3 in head. Soft dorsal high, its out- 

 line angular, the tenth ray produced, 31 in head. Anal fin formed 

 as in 31. falcata, its seventh ray produced, 2^ in head, its posterior 

 outline concave. Caudal subtruncate, the outer rays slightly pro- 

 duced. Pectoral 1| in head. 



Color in spirits plain dark olivaceous, the edges of the fins scarcely 

 darker. 



Several specimens of this species from the Galapagos Islands are 

 in the Museum of Comparative Zoology. These were mixed with 

 specimens of the more common Mycteroperca olfax, from the same 

 locality. Other specimens (10061 M. C. Z.) are from Payta, Peru. 

 Mycteroperca xenarcha resembles M. olfax in form and color. In 

 M. olfax however, the nostrils are close together, the posterior some 

 three times the diameter of the anterior : the second and third dor- 

 sal spines are elevated, about half higher than the fourth. Both 

 species have the angular anal fin as in M. falcata, a character also 

 shown in less degree by M. acutirostris and 31. tigris. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 389 



NOTE ON ACHIRUS LOEENTZI. 

 BY DAVID STAKR JORDAN. 



In the review of the Pleuronectidse of America and Europe, pub- 

 lished by Jordan and Goss in the Report of the U. S. Fish Commis- 

 sion for the current year, mention is made of a species of Sole from 

 Uruguay, described by Dr. Weyeubergh under the name of Achirus 

 lorentzi. This description was at that time not accessible to us. 

 Through the kindness of Sefior Augustin Pendola, Secretary of the 

 National Museum of Buenos Ayres, a copy has been recently sent 

 to me. As the paper is very difficult of access, I have thought it 

 well to reprint the description in these Proceedings. 



Achirus Lorentzii, Weyenbergli. (Actas de la Academia Nacional de Ciencias 

 Exaetas, Buenos Aires, Tom. III. Entr. I. p. 13.) 



"Achirus lorentzii, Weyenbergh. 



"Esta nueva especie de la familia des los Pleuronectoideos, tiene 

 alguna semejanza con la especie figurada en el "Atlas" del viaje de 

 D'Orbigny, con el nombre de Achirus lineatus Lac. ; pero las difer- 

 encias, sin embargo, son bastante grandes. 



"La aleta dorsal no se extiende en al Achirus Lorentzii, como 

 sucede en al ^. lineatus, hasta el labio superior de la boca, 6 hasta 

 la nariz, sino unicamente hasta la altura del fin de la fisura agallar ; 

 su forma tambieu es diferente. En A. lineatus esta aleta se aumente 

 poco a poco, de manera que la parte posterior tiene, mas 6 menos, 

 el doble de la parte anterior, formando uno linea regularmente en- 

 corvada. En A. Lorentzii, la parte posterior es igual a la anterior 

 enanchandose ambas regularmente hasta tomar la parte mas ancha, 

 una forma aguda, hacia al medio, y como dirigiendose los rayos todos 

 a este punto. El numero de estos es 40. En A. lineatus la aleta 

 anal se extiende hasta la fisura agallar, y presenta la misma forma 

 regularmente corvada. En A. Lorentzii la forma de la aleta anal 

 es la misma que la de la aleta dorsal ; su parte aguda y mas larga se 

 encuentra un poquito mas a la cola, y esta aleta continua solamente 

 hasta dos cent, distante de la fisura agallar. El numero de sus rayos 

 es 38. El color de la superficie derecha es como el de A. lineatus 

 de manera que puede llamarse muy bien color sepia oscura. Las 

 manchas negras son menos grandes y menos oscuras que en A. lin- 

 eatus, y las escamas un poco mas grandes. El color del lado ciego 

 es bianco, lo que acontece casi siempre en esta familia. Una otra 

 diferencia notable es que A. Lorentzii tiene aletas ventrales rudiment- 




390 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



arias y pequeiias, pero bastante distintas, de lo cual no se nota nada 

 en la fig. de A. lineatus de D'Orbigny. Los pelos de la barba son 

 menos desarrollados en nuestro especie, y le faltan los apendices en 

 el labio superior, que se ven en la mencionada ligura de A. lineatus. 

 La boca es encorvada mas rectangularmente en nuestra especie, y 

 los ojos son mas pequenos y inas esfericos, encontrandose el ojo in- 

 ferior que es mas chico, perfectamente en el angulo de la corvadura 

 locale. 



"Las lineas transversales, que ban dada origen al nombre de A. 

 lineatus se encuentran tambicn en nuestro especie, pero son mucho 

 menos anclias, y a pesar de que el niamero siempre parece el misura, 

 no hay una regularidad muy constaute 6 tipica en la distribucion de 

 estas lineas in en sus corvaduras. 



"La linea lateral es mas gruesa y mas recta en A. Lorentzii que 

 en A. lineatus, y en esta dicha linea se encorva mucho mas, por la 

 parte de arriba, y hacia la cabeza, que en nuestra especie. 



"Los extremes purpureos que se ven en la parta superior de las 

 aletas dorsales y auales de A. lineatus. y en su aleta caudal, no se 

 encuentran en A. Lorentzii, en este tales partes son solamente un 

 poco mas claras que lo demas de las aletas. El numero de rayos en 

 la aleta caudal es 19. En la membrana de las aletas se ven ambas 

 especias los mismas pequenas manchas negras. 



''El taraano mayor que conozco, de mi especie, es de dos decimetros 

 de largo, desde la barba hasta la extremidad de la cola : 14 centi- 

 metros de ancho entre las dos extremidades agudas de la parte mas 

 ancha de las aletas dorsal y anal. 



"Parte mas gruesa del cuerpo, 18 milimetros. 



"He encontrado este pescado en las aguas, al rededor de Santa Fe, 

 pero en el Parana mismo. Tambien lo he recibido del Uruguay. 



"Me parece que esta es la primera especie, de la interesante familia 

 de los Pleuronectoideos, que ha sido encontrada en agua dulce, pues 

 todas las que conocemos hasta ahora, v,iven en el mar, 6 en gulfos y 

 bocas que estan en comunicacion directa con el mar ; es decir, en 

 agua salada 6 salobre,. He dedicado esta especie al sabio botanico 

 y celebre viajero alemen, Profesor Dr. D. P. G. Lorentz, antes mi 

 colega en esta Universidad, por haber sido 6\ el primero que fijo mi 

 atencion sobre la existencia de esta especie en nuestro pais." 



This species seems to be a valid one — apparently allied to Achirus 

 lineatus but distinguished, if Dr. Weyenbergh has counted correctly, 

 by the small number of the fin rays. (D. 40, A. 38.) 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 391 



Dr. Giiuther lias identified it with Achirus mentalis, a species with 

 D. 66, A. 48, but has given no reason for so doing. 



Supplementary note. — In our Review of the PleuronectidcE, we overlooked 

 Achirus fischeri [Solea fischeri, Steindachner, Beitrage zur Kenntniss der Flusz- 

 fische Sud-Amerkas, 1879, 13.)) from Rio Mamorie, a tributary of the Rio Bayano, 

 near Panama. This seems to be "a valid species allied to Achirus fonsecensis, 

 but with D. 61, A. 44, and the right pectoral of only a single ray. 



In this connection, I may notice that the species called "/"/s^Mj/rt" of which the 

 development has been traced by Prof. Alexander Agassiz, (Proc. Am. Acad. Arts 

 Sci. 1878, XIV, PI. 10, f. 171.) is not a " Plagusia^^ (i. e. Symphurus), nor is it a 

 Sole at all, but the young of some Platophyrs, apparently PL ocellatus. Thus far, 

 nothing is certainly known of the development of the Soles. 




392 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



December 6. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Twenty-six persons present. 

 The death of Evan Randolph, a member, was announced. 



The origin of the Grassy Prairies. — Mr. Meehan said that in 1871 

 he had offered to the Academy some facts to show that the views of 

 the origin of the prairies, at that time generally accepted, could not 

 be sound, and he then suggested some points that must have had 

 considerable influence in bringing about this tree-less condition. 

 Among these points, he had named the annual prairie fires of the 

 Indians. Given a sheet of grass to be annually burned over, and 

 forests flanking it, trees, obviously, could not extend far. Young 

 sprouts from a tree stump would not flower. It took a seedling tree 

 or sprouts from a stump to persist in growth for a number of years 

 before its flowering stage is reached. Hence, though trees should 

 spring up on a gi'assy prairie, the annual burning to the ground pre- 

 venting the sprouts from reaching maturity, would be an insuper- 

 able bar to the surrounding forests encroaching far on the area of 

 the prairie. 



A further consideration, since that time, made it evident, that 

 tree seeds could scarcely get a chance to grow at all in these grassy 

 places. He had studied the so-called "balds" or open grassy places 

 on mountain tops and sides, surrounded on all sides by forests, where 

 there had been no annual fires, and yet no trees. He referred par- 

 ticularly to such sj^ots on Roan Mountain, North Carolina. There 

 would be open spaces covered by a thick matted sod, the chief grass 

 composing it being Danthonia compressa. Spruce, Fir, Oak, and 

 representatives of other genera surrounded them on all sides. 

 Though the trees may have been fifty or even a hundred years old, the 

 grassy outline had evidently been definitely fixed years back, and 

 had not since been encroached upon until these later times. Since 

 cattle had been permitted to browse, young trees could be seen here 

 and there si^ringing up. If the browsing continued, trees would 

 eventually cover the balds. In the past, seeds falling on the thick 

 matted grass, could not grow. There would be too much light and 

 too little moisture, so far from the ground. Should a seed sprout 

 under such circumstances, the radicle would dry up before it pushed 

 through the thick mass of grass to the necessary earth. Browsing 

 cattle kept down the grass, and gave the seeds a chance to reach 

 the ground, and their hoofs would often make the ground bare, and 

 even tread the seeds beneath the surface. Though eaten to the 

 ground, the trees would sprout again, — some get stronger and larger, — 

 and some eventually get to be trees, finally shading and killing out 

 the light-loving grass. While annual fires certainly prevented trees 

 spreading over grassy areas, we could now account for their non-ex- 

 istence, even as young seedling plants. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 393 



Our own prairies afforded evidence of the soundness of these views. 

 There would often be seen elevated peuinsular-Iike arms stretching 

 from the woody area into the grassy basins, or even little islands of 

 elevated ground in the midst of the flat sea of soddy land, covered by 

 trees of various kinds. These elevations by reason of drouth, lighter 

 soil, or other special conditions, were unfavorable for the growth of 

 the thick mass of herbaceous vegetation that possessed the land be- 

 low. The seeds could not only sprout and become trees, but the ab- 

 sence of much grassy undergrowth saved them from serious effects 

 from fire on lower prairie ground. 



There could be no doubt these consiTlerations fully accounted for 

 the perpetuity of the grassy areas, and the inability of the forests to 

 encroach thereon. 



If we are now asked how these extensive areas were given over to 

 grass in the nrst place, we may safely reply that the trees were not 

 there to dispute with it for the possession of the ground, or they 

 would have conquered. We may imagine the jDrairie region as in a 

 state of transition from the paludose to the limose state, with ligneous 

 or arborescent vegetation on the higher lands, many miles away. 

 The tufty grasses would undoubtedly take possession long before their 

 woody neighbors could come down from the hills and spy out the 

 land. The struggle for life would be at the boundaries where the 

 two forces met. The trees covild not gain rapid advances, but by 

 the overshadowing of their branches would weaken the grass be- 

 neath, and thus, by slow approaches, gradually conquer their 

 weaker neighbors. In meadows, where cattle kept the coarse grass 

 down, or where briars or light bushes kept tough grass from spread- 

 ing, or where the ground was too gravelly or sandy or the native 

 grasses not of a close tufty character, trees found no obstruction 

 whatever in their endeavor to take possession of the soil. 



December 13. 

 The President, Dr. Jos. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Twenty-three persons present. 



Bot-larvae in the Terrapin. — Prof. Leidy remarked that the 

 habits of a naturalist often led him to observe things in our daily 

 life which usually escape the notice of others. In our food he had 

 frequent occasion to detect parasites which he j^referred to reject 

 but which are unconsciously swallowed by others. While he liked 

 a herring, he never ate one without first removing the conspic 

 uously coiled worms on the surface of the rows; and he had 

 repeatedly extracted from a piece of black bass or a shad a thread 

 worm which others would not distinguish from a vessel or a 

 nerve. While he did not object to the little parasitic crab of the 

 oyster, he made it a point to remove the equally frequent leech from 

 the clam. It was in a piece of ham, he was eating, that he first • 

 26 




394 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



noticed the trichina, which was no doubt one of the causes that led 

 Moses to declare the pig to be unclean ; and in the hundred tape- 

 worms he had examined, from our fellow citizens, during the past 

 twenty five years, he had ascertained that they had all been derived 

 from rare beef. He continued, in a visit to Charleston, S. C. before 

 the late war, at an evening entertainment among other viands, 

 were nicely browned slices of the drum-fish, Pogonias chrornis. 

 A friend informed him that some portions were more gelatinous 

 and delicate than others and helped him to what was supposed to be 

 one of such. On cutting into it he had observed imbedded in the 

 flesh a soft mass which appeared of enigmatic character. The 

 following day he procured from market a drum-fish on the dissection 

 of which, he found imbedded in the tail several egg-shaped masses, 

 about three inches long and less than an inch thick, which proved 

 to be a large coiled worm, (^Acanthorhynclius reptans)} This it was 

 that gave delicacy to the dainty, and in this instance the parasite 

 seems to enhance the excellence of the food. At another evening 

 entertainment nearer home he partook of some stewed terrapins. 

 Taking into his mouth what appeared to be an e.gg it produced such 

 an imj^ression as led to its rejection. Seeming so peculiar he tied it 

 in the corner of his handkerchief for more convenient examination. 

 The specimen, now exhibited, was a membranous bag which con- 

 tained thirty yellowish white maggots from 8 to 12 mm long by 1.5 

 to 3 mm broad. They are the larvae of a bot-fly, and resemble 

 those of the Gastrophilus of the horse. Their characters are as follow: — 



Body of the larva fusiform, acute anteriorly, obtuse posteriorly, 

 consisting of twelve segments including the head, which is armed 

 with a pair of strong, black, hooked maxillae; terminal segment 

 with a pair of trilateral oval, chitinous disks, each with three spir- 

 acles ; intermediate segments with numerous minute recurved hook- 

 lets, disposed in incompletely separated bands at the fore and back 

 part of the segments. 



The sac containing the larvae is about three fourths of an inch 

 long and half an inch broad, with a short tubular prolongation open 

 at the extremity. It was uncertain whether the sac formed part of the 

 intestine. 



The dish of stewed terrapins was suspected to have been a mixture 

 of the diamond-back, Emys palustris and the red-bellied terrapin 

 E. rugosa. This is not the only instance of the occurrence of bets 

 in turtles, as Prof A. S. Packard notes the case of larvae being 

 found in the skin of the neck of the box-turtle, Clstudo Carolina.^ 



December 20. 

 Mr. Geo. W. Tryon Jr. in the chair. 

 Twelve persons present. 



1 Proc. A. N. S. 1858, 111. 



2 American Naturalist, 1882, 598. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 395 



A paper entitled "The Miocene Mollusca of the State of New 

 Jersey," by Angelo Heilprin, was presented for publication. 



Detevmination of the Age of Rock Deposits. — Prof Heilprin, re- 

 ferring to the methods that had been used by geologists and physi- 

 cists to determine the rate of formation of rock masses, stated that 

 in the case of the organically-formed rocks, especially those, like the 

 chalk, which were largely in the nature of a deep-sea deposit, the 

 data deduced from sedimentation and accumulation Avere of little or 

 no value, since the rate of growth here was almost wholly depend- 

 ent upon the rate of develoj^meut of the oceanic organisms which 

 use lime in the construction of their hard parts. In the deposit now 

 accumulating along the sea-bottom, known as the Atlantic or Globi- 

 gerina ooze, the speaker thought we had some direct clue bearing 

 upon the solution of the problem. Manifestly, there can be no more 

 rapid accumulation of the calcai*eous ooze than there is lime-carbon- 

 ate suspended in the sea ; and again, the quantity of lime-carbonate 

 (in the form of microscopic tests and fragments) suspended in the 

 sea must depend upon the quantity of the formative material con- 

 tained in the sea — the quantity of lime carried in by the rivers. 

 The researches of the officers of the Challenger expedition have shown 

 that in a column of oceanic water of 600 feet depth, with a transverse 

 area of one square mile, there are contained some 16 tons of suspended 

 organic (foraminiferal) particles ; these, if precipitated to the floor 

 of the sea, would make a deposit i^o iiich in thickness. Now, 

 it would seem from careful observations made on many of the most 

 important rivers of the globe' that the quantity of lime carried out 

 by them into the sea annually is about one-sixth that of their sus- 

 pended sediment, and would cover the sea-bottom, if precipitated 

 at a rate proportional to that of the removal of continental sediment, 

 one foot in 3000 years — to a depth of about ^-V^ inch. Assuming 

 that one-half of this amount is used by the Foraminifera for the con- 

 struction of their shells, the rest being taken up by the mollusks, 

 corals, etc., then the foraminiferal accumulation from this (ap- 

 parently the only) available source would be the 9/00 part of an inch 

 annually, or very nearly the amount that would accumulate from 

 the droppings contained in the 600-foot column of water, as deduced 

 from the Challenger determinations. At this extremely slow rate of 

 accumulation, it would require a period of 100000 years to form a 

 single foot, and where, as in the case of the Chalk, we have a similar 

 deposit hundreds of feet in thickness, we would require a period of 

 millions of years for its formation. The speaker stated that there were 

 probably factors involved in a more rapid formation of the Atlantic 

 ooze with Avhich we were not acquainted, and it hardly a])peared 

 credible to him that the rate of formation could be as slow as the data 

 indicate. But the method of calculation was based upon tangible 

 facts, and was accordingly interesting. 



iMellard Reade, Presidential Address, Liverpool Geo). Soc, Oct. 1876. 




396 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



December 27. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 



Seventy persons present. 



The death of Dr. Ferdinand V. Hayden, a member, was announced. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication: — 



"Description of New Species of Uniones from Florida." By 

 Berlin Hart Wright. 



"A Bibliographic and Synomymic Catalogue of the Genus Auri- 

 culella Pfr." By Wm. D. Hartman M. D. 



"A Bibliographic and Synomymic Catalogue of the Genus Acha- 

 tinella Swnsn." By Wm. D. Hartman M. D. 



The following was ordered to be printed: — 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 397 



THE MIOCENE MOLLUSCA OF THE STATE OF NEW JERSEY. 

 BY PROF. ANGELO HEILPRIN. 



The known forms of miocene mollusca of the State of New Jersey 

 numbered up to 1884, the year when I published my "Contributions 

 to^ithe Tertiary Geology and Paleontology of the United States," 

 some thirty species, as follows : 



Ostrea Virginica ( 0. Mauricensis.) 



Ostrea percrassa 



Peeten Humjohreysii 



Plicatula densata 



Mytilus iiiflatus f 



Lithodomus subalveatus 



Cai'ditamera aculeata 



Carditamera arata 



Crassatella melina 



Astarte Thomasii 



Astarte distans 



Mysia parilis 



Yoldia Umatilla 



Venus Ducatellii 



Venus plena 



Mercenaria cancellata 



Tellina SMlohensis 



Tellina peracuta 



TeUinella(^)capillifera 



Thracia myceformis 



Anatina alta 



Corbula elevata 



JSaxicava parilis 



Turbinella Woodi 



Fulgur scalariformis 



Natica catenoides ? 



Turritella cequistriata 



Turritella Cumherlandia 



Turritella secta 



Fissurella Griscomi. 




398 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Several excursions with my class to the ''marl" diggings near 

 Shiloh, Cumberland Co., and the examination of material from an 

 artesian well-boring in Atlantic City (kindly placed in my hands by 

 Mr. Lewis Woolman), enable me to increase this list by about fifty 

 species, of which some four or five prove to be new forms. The 

 following species have been identified from the diggings near Shiloh : 



Ostrea percrassa 



Pecten Hwnphreysii, var. Woolmani (Heilprin) 



Pecten Madisonius 



Plicatula densata 



Mytilus inflatus 



Mytiloconcha incurva 



Lithodomus sp. F 



Perna maxillata 



Area centenaria 



Area Marylandica 



Pectunculus lentiformis 



Nucula obliqua 



Yoldia limatula 



Astarte distans 



Astarte compsonema 



Orassatella vielina 



Garditamera arata 



Carditamera aculeata 



Lueina ereiiulata 



Cardmm laqueatum 



Chama congregata 



Venus athleta 



Ve7ius mercenaria f 



Ve7ius (Mercenaria cancellata ? Gabb.) 



Mactra lateralis 



Tellina sp. ? 



Teredo sp. ? 



Saxicava parilis f (S, insifa ?) 



Murex nov. sp. 



Turbinella Woodi 



Fulgur scalariformis 



Cantharus Cumberlandianus 



Nassa trivlttata 



Columhella communis 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 399 



Terebra curvilirata 



Triforis nov. sp. 



Cancellaria sp. ? 



Marginella sp. ? 



Pleurotoma nov. sp. 



Turbo eboreiis 



Carinorbis {Delphinuld) globulus 

 (D. lyra f Conrad) 



Natica hemicrypta 



Turritella Cumberlandia 



Turritella cequistriata 



Trochita centralis 



Crucibulum costatum 



Crepidula fornicata 



Orepidula plana f 



Fissurella Griscomi 



Discina {Orbicula) lugubris 

 Of the species here indicated the greater number have been 

 found in States other than New Jersey, and leave no doubt that the 

 deposits which they rej^resent constitute a part of the regular Mio- 

 cene series of the Atlantic border. The general faunal facies is most 

 nearly that of the Lower Atlantic Miocene (" Marylandian") or 

 Middle Atlantic Miocene ("Virginian"), with a decided leaning to- 

 ward the former, whose position it occupies geographically. I have 

 elsewhere (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1880 pp. 31-32 ; Contrib. 

 Tei't. Geol. and Paleont. U. S., p. 9,) given reasons for referring these 

 Cumberland County deposits to the ' 'Marylandian" division of the 

 Atlantic Miocene, a reference which appears justified, apart from 

 other considerations, by the presence of such fossils as Ostrea per- 

 erassa, Peden Humplireysii, Periia maxillata, Crassatella melina, etc. 

 These species belong to the Lower Miocene (Contrib. Tert. Geol. and 

 Paleont. U. S., pp. 71 and 77), and characterize principally the basal 

 series of deposits. Indeed, it is a little questionable if they do not 

 actually connect with the Oligocene. 



The newer Miocene deposits, as determined by their fossil remains, 

 had not been recognized in the State prior to the present year, 

 although the existence of such deposits in their proper position 

 could not reasonably be doubted. In my work above referred to 

 (1884) I remark (p. 9) : "It is very likely that both divisions of the 

 Miocene indicated by me as occurring in Maryland and Virginia, 




400 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1887. 



and by me designated as the 'Marylandian' and 'Virginian,' or 

 the lower and middle Atlantic Miocenes respectively, will eventually 

 be found to be equally well-marked off in New Jersey, although up 

 to the present time, from the sparseness of the fossil remains that 

 have been collected, no such subdivision could be satisfactorily at- 

 tempted. But from what material we have at hand, it may be 

 safely asserted that the localities which have been so assiduously 

 searched in the neighborhood of Shiloh, and elsewhere in Salem and 

 Cumberland Counties, belong to the older, or 'Marylandian' divis- 

 ion." 



The existence of the newer Miocene deposits has now been def- 

 initely determined through the material obtained by Mr. Woolman 

 from the artesian boring at Atlantic City, which has been placed in 

 my hands for examination. The species of fossils obtained here are 

 the following: 



Discina luguhris 



Ostrea sp. ? 



Anomia ephipjnum ? 



Pecten Madisonius 



Pecten Humjilirexjsii 



Pecten vicenarius f 



Perna maxillata 



Mytllus incrassatus 



Mytiloconcha incurva 



Area centenaria 



Area subrostrata 



Area idonea f 



Area lienosa f 



Nucula ohliqua 



Astarte eomjisonema 



Astarte ohruta 



Astarte perjdana f 



Astarte Thomasii 



Cardita granulata 



Carditamera arata 



Crassatella melina 



Cardium {laqueatum ?) 



Lueina trisulcata f 



Lueina crenulata 



Mysia sj). ? 




1887.] NATTRAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 401 



Cytherea Sayanaf 



Artemis acetabulum 



Venus sp. ? 



Donax variabilis 



Mactra lateralis 



Mactra ponderosa '? 



Tellina decllvis 



Tellina suhreflexa 



Corbula idouea 



Corbula elevata 



Turbiuella Woodi 



Ftilgur sp ? 



Nassa trivittata 



Natica sp. ? 



Turritella Cumber la7idia 



Turritella oiquistriata 



Turritella plebeia 



Barnacles 



Echiuoid fragments 



Dendrophyllia (coral) 



Lamna compressa 



Odontaspis 



Myliobatis 



Crocodilian bone 

 Many of the species occur only in fragments, but the greater num- 

 ber admit of definite determination. Unfortunately, in most in- 

 stances, the depth at \Yhich they were obtained could not be ascer- 

 tained, and in so far, therefore, such species give but little positive 

 evidence as t6 the horizons which they actually represent. But the 

 introduction of a very considerable number of forms, as compared 

 with the number of such forms occurring in the deposits near Shiloh, 

 which are more or less characteristic of the "Virginian" (Middle 

 Atlantic Miocene) deposits, and those of still newer date ("Caroli- 

 nian"), leave no room for doubt that a distinct faunal horizon, — 

 the corresj)ondent, in all probability, of the Middle Miocene — is 

 penetrated by the bore. Again, that the older beds are also repre- 

 sented is proved by the occurrence of Perna maxillata, Pecten 

 Humphreysii, Crassatella melina, etc., but only in the case of 

 the first-named species, Perna maxillata, could the absolute posi- 

 tion — depth of some 800 feet — in the section be obtained. The po- 




402 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



sition here indicated accords approximately with the theoretical 

 position deduced from a calculation of dip and strike, using the 

 Shiloh Perna beds as an equivalent. At a height of some 350 feet 

 above the Perna beds, and consequently, at an actual depth of about 

 450 feet, occurs a stratum containing large numbers of Turritella 

 pleheia, a species, which in Maryland, incisively marks the newer 

 Miocene deposits of the State (i. e. the "Virginian"), as distinguished 

 from the older ("Marylandian"). Its presence in the position which 

 it occupies in the Atlantic City bore section would, of itself, be al- 

 most sufficient to determine the existence of a second faunal horizon. 

 The following table enumerates, as far as is known to me, all the 

 Molluscan species that have been thus far determined from the 

 Miocene formation of the State : 

 Discina luguhris, Conr. Mioc. Foss., p. 75. 

 Ostrea Virginica ( 0. Mauricensis) Gmel. 

 Ostrea percrassa, Conr. Mioc. Foss., p. 50. 

 Peeten Humplireysii, Conr. Bull. Nat. Inst., p. 194. 

 Pecten Madisonius, Say. Journ. A. N. S., IV. p. 134. 

 Peeten vicenariusf Conr. Proc. A. N. S., 1. p. 306. 

 Anomia ephippitun f L. 



Plicatula densata, Conr. Proc. A. N. S. 1. p. 311. 

 Mytilus inflatus, Tuomey and Holmes. Plioc. Foss., p. 33. 

 Mytilus incrassatus, Conr. A. J. Science, XLI., p. 247. 

 MytiloeoncJia incurva, Conr. Mioc. Foss., p. 52. 

 Lithodomus subalveatus, Conr. A. J. Conch., II, p. 73. 

 Perna max'dlata, Lam. 



Area centenaria, Say. Journ. A. N. S., IV., p. 138. 

 Area Marylandiea, Conr. Mioc. Foss., j). 54. 

 Area subrostrata, Conr. Mioc. Foss., p. 58. • 



Area idonea f Conr. Foss. Tert. Form., p. 15. 

 Area lienosa f Say. Amer. Conch., pi. 36. 

 Peetuneulus lentiformis, Conr. Mioc. Foss., p. 64. 

 Nucula ohliqua, Say. A. J. Science, II, p. 40. 

 Yoldia limatula, Say. Amer. Conch., pi. 12. 

 Astarte comj^sonema, Conr. A. J. Conch., II, p. 72. 

 Astarte obruta, Conr. Journ. A. N. S., VII, p. 15. 

 Astarte perjjkma F Conr. Mioc. Foss., p. 43. 

 Astarte Thomasii, Conr. Proc. A. N. S., VII, p. 267. 

 Astarte distans, Conr. Proc. A. N. S., 14, p. 288. 

 Crassatella melina, Conr. Mioc. Foss., p. 22. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 403 



Cardita granulata, Say. Journ. A. N. S., IV., p. 142. 



Carditamera arata, Conr. Mioc. Foss., p. 11. 



Carditamera aculeata, Conr. Proc. A. N. S., 14, p. 585. 



Lucina crenulata, Conr. Mioc. Foss., p. 39. 



Lucina trisidcoia f Conr. A. J. Science, XLI, p. 346. 



Mysia parilis, Conr. A. J. Concli., II, p. 71. 



Mysia sp. ? 



Chama congregata, Conr. A. J. Science, XXIII, p. 341. 



Cardium laqueatum, Conr, Mioc. Foss., p. 31. 



Oytherea Sayana, Conr. Mioc. Foss., p. 13. 



Venus Ducatellii, Conr. Mioc. Foss., p. 8. 



Venus plena, Conr. A. J. Conch., V, p. 100. 



Venus latilirata, Conr. Proc. A. N. S., 1, p. 28. 



Venus sp, ? 



Mercenaria cancellata, Gabb, Journ, A, N. S., IV, p. 376. 



Artemis acetabidum, Conr. Foss. Tert. Form, p. 20. 



Mactra lateralis, Say. Journ. A. N. S., II, p, 309. 



Mactra ponderosa f Conr. Journ. A. N. S., VI, p. 228. 



Donax variabilis, Tuomey and Holmes. Plioc. Foss. p. 95. 



Tellina Shilohensis 



Tellina declivis, Say. Journ. A. N. S., VII, p. 131. 



Tellina jyeracuta, Conr. A. J. Conch., II, p. 71. 



Tellinella capillifera, Qonx. A. J. Conch., II, p. 71. 



Amphidesma suhreflexa, Conr. Journ. A. N. S., VII, p. 133. 



Thracia myceformis, Conr. Proc. A. N. S., 14, p. 585, as Saxicava. 



Anatina alta, Conr, Proc. A. N. S. 14, p. 585. 



Corbula elevata, Conr. Mioc. Foss., p. 7. 



Corbula idonea, Conr. A. J. Sci., XXIII, p. 341. 



Saxicava 2^o,Tilis, Conr. A.J. Conch., II, p. 70. 



Saxicava incita f 



Teredo sp. ? Conr. A. J. Couch., v, p. 101. 



Murex nov. sp. 



Turbinella Woodi, Gabb. Journ. A. N. S. (2cl ser.) IV, p. 375. 



Cantharus Cumber landianus, Gabb. Journ. A. N. S,, 2d ser,, IV, p. 375. 



Fxdgur scalarispira, Conr. Proc. A, N. S., 14, p. 584. 



Nassa trivittata, Say. Journ. A. X. S., II, p. 231. 



Columbella communis, Conr. Proc. A. X. S,, 14, p. 287. 



Terebra curvilirata, Conr. Proc. A. N. S,, 1, p. 327. 



Triforis nov. sp. 




404 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1887. 



Cancellaria sp.? 

 Marginella sp. ? 

 Pleurotoma nov. sp. 



Natica hemicrypta, Gabb. Jouru. A. N. S. (2d ser.), IV, p. 375. 

 Natica cafenoidesf Wood. Crag. Moll., p. 141. 

 Turbo eboreus, Wagner. Joiirn. A. N. S„ VIII, p. 52, 

 Carinorbis (Delpimiula) globulus, H. C. Lea. Trans. Am. Phil. Soc, 

 (D. lyraf Conrad.) [IX, p. 262- 



Turritella cequistriata, Conr. Proc. A. N. S., 14, p. 584. 

 Turritella Cumherlandia, Conr. Proc. A. N. S., 14, p. 584. 

 Turritella secta, Conr. Proc. A. N. S., VII, p. 268. 

 Turritella plebeia, Say. Journ. A. N. S., IV, p. 125. 

 Trochita centralis, Conr. A. J. Science, XLI, p. 348. 

 Crucibulum costatum. Say. Journ. A. N. S., IV, p. 132. 

 Oreindula Jornicata, Say. Journ. A. N. S., II, p. 225. 

 Orepidula jdana f Say. Journ. A. N. S., II, p. 226. 

 Fissurella Griscomi, Conr. ■ Mioc. Foss., p. 78. 



The references to descriptions do not necessarily indicate first 

 description. 



Notes on New and Old Species. 

 Murex Shilohensis. nov. gp. 



Whorls about seven, angular, flattened on the shoulder, which is 

 crossed diagonally by the variceal ridges ; varices about eight on 

 the body-whorl, sub-equal, spinosely elevated on the shoulder angu- 

 lation, and crossed by four sub-equal revolving ridges, which appear 

 double on the crests of the varices ; only two such ridges on the 

 whorls above the body-whorl. 



Aperture somewhat more than half the length of shell, key-hole 

 shaped, with the canal broadly deflected. Length nearly "75 inch. 



A single specimen from Ayres' pits, near Shiloh, in the possession 

 of Miss Emma Walter, of Philadelphia. 

 Pleurotoma pseudeburnea. nov. sp. 



Spire elevated, of about ten volutions; apex papillate; whorls 

 convex, porcellanous, strongly ribbed, somewhat impressed on the 

 shoulder ; ribs numerous, deflected, those of the several whorls al- 

 ternating in position. No revolving lines. 



Aperture about one-third the length of shell ; canal slightly de- 

 flected ; columellar lip well defined. 



Length, slightly exceeding a half-inch. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 405 



From Ayres' pits near Sliiloli. Fairly abundant. From the col- 

 lection of Miss Mary S. Holmes, of Philadelphia. 



Triforis terebrata. nov. sp. 



Spire gradually tapering, nearly parallel-sided ; whorls? flat, orna- 

 mented (on the body-whorl) with two jirominently beaded lines, 

 and two alternating lines of smaller beads ; on the whorls above the 

 body-whorl the lowest line is indistinct, or entirely covered over; 

 transverse lines connect the beads of the different series ; columella 

 smooth, arcuate. 



Length, ? 



A fragment only, showing three whorls, from Ayres' pits, near 

 Shiloh ; in the possession of Miss Ella Lyndall, of Philadelphia. 



The species appears to be most closely related to Cerithium ( Tri- 

 foris^moniliferum, of H. C. Lea. 



Pecten Humphreysii, var. Woolmani. 



Under this name I propose to designate a Pecten, which appears 

 to be only a variety or sub-species of the Maryland P. Humphreysii, 

 difiering from the normal type of that species in the greater eleva- 

 tion of the ears, and the more distinct quadrangulation of the ribs 

 of the convex valve. The ribs are also more prominently lined. 

 All the New Jersey specimens that I have seen of what appears to 

 be Pecten Ilumjihreysii agree in these characters. 



Illustrations of these species will be given in a future paper. 



JVoU. Since the preparation of the above Mr. Woolman has obtained from the 

 Atlantic City boring JVassa obsoleta, the impression of a fish-scale, and several 

 Foraminifera [Cristellaria, Robulina, etc.) 




406 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



The following annual reports were read and referred to the 

 Publication Committee : — 



REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY. 



The operations of the various departments of the Academy are 

 so fully set forth in the reports of the several officers and Sections' 

 that little remains for the Recording Secretary to note of the history 

 of an uneventful but prosperous year except the statistics of pub- 

 lication and exchange. 



One hundred and three pages of the Proceedings for 1886 and 

 three hundred and twenty-eight pages of the volume for 1887 have 

 been issued, the former being illustrated by two and the latter by 

 fifteen plates. The second part of the ninth volume of the quarto 

 Journal, consisting so far of papers by Profs. Wm. B. Scott and 

 Henry F. Osborn is in process of preparation, but, in consequence 

 of an unavoidable change of printers, the work progresses with dis- 

 discouraging slowness. 



Three titles have been added to our exchange list, increasing the 

 number of copies of the Proceedings now distributed to foreign cor- 

 respondents to 382. In addition sixty one copies are mailed to 

 domestic exchanges and one hundred and fourteen to subscribers, 

 making the whole number of each issue sent out 557. 



Twenty-five papers have been presented for publication as 

 follows:— Henry F. Osborn 3, Geo. A. Koenig 2, C. A. White 2, 

 David Starr Jordan 2, C. Rominger 2, Joseph Leidy 1, Otto 

 Meyer 1, Thomas C. Porter 1, Harrison Allen 1, Andrew Garrett 1, 

 Adele M. Fielde 1, Edw. Potts 1, Henry C. Chapman 1, Carl F. 

 Eigenmann 1, John A. Ryder 1, Angelo Heilprin 1, Thomas 

 Meehan 1, Henry C. McCook 1, Charles Wachsmuth and Frank 

 Springer 1. One of these has been accepted for publication in the 

 Journal and the others will form part of the current volume of tbe 

 Proceedings. 



Communications have been made at the meetings by Messrs Allen, 

 Heilprin, Ryder, Holman, Foote, Koenig, Meehan, Rusby, McCook, 

 Leidy, Brinton, Sharji, Wilson, Binder, Kelly, Trotter, Dolley, 

 Martindale, Willcox, Chapman, Cresson, Parker, Woolman, Cheston 

 Morris and Jefferis. When reported by their authors these, to- 

 gether with occasional notes on the natural history of Swatow, 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 407 



China, by Miss Fielde, have been published as minor articles in the 

 Proceedings. The practice of reporting the meetings in a popular 

 form for the newspapers has been continued as far as possible. 



The average attendance at the meetings has been 21. 



Seventeen members and sixteen correspondents have been elected. 

 The deaths of ten members and thi'ee correspondents have been 

 recorded in the published Proceedings. Resignations of member- 

 ship from John B. Deaver M. D., W. L Springs and W. H. Harned 

 were accepted on the usual conditions. 



The Academy was represented at the banquet in celebration of 

 the Centenary of the Adoption of the Federal Constitution by a 

 committee consisting of Messrs Thomas Meehan, Jacob Binder and 

 Theo. D. Rand. 



Nine of the portraits in oil belonging to the Academy have been 

 loaned to the Academy of Fine Arts as a portion of the interesting 

 collection of historical portraits now being exhibited to the public. 

 All of which is respectfully submitted. 



EDw^ J. Nolan, 



Recording Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 



The duties of the Corresponding Secretary have shown but little 

 variation during the past year, the letters received being almost 

 entirely those of transmission of i^ublications or acknowledgement 

 of the reception of those sent by us. 



The plan adopted some time ago of sending our Proceedings by 

 mail, in pai'ts as completed, has caused the number, of letters of 

 acknowledgement to exceed those of transmittal. 



Publications acknowledged by circular letter, . 64 



Those acknowledged by Postal Card, ... 32 



The latter about equally divided between native 



and foreign societies. 



Letters of transmittal, ...... 28 



These are for the most part from societies and others who send 

 through the International Exchange. 



Among the letters were eight asking the Academy to supply 

 deficiencies. While it has been possible to reply favorably to the de- 

 mand in nearly every case, some could not be so treated. Unfortunately 




408 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1887. 



some of our earlier volumes are either entirely or partly out of print, 

 but it is hoped the finances of the Academy may permit republica- 

 tion in the near ftiture. 



During the year sixteen Correspondents have been elected and 

 notification promptly sent. Responses have been received from 

 fifteen, in several cases accompanied by gifts to the library or 

 museum. 



The additions to the museum during the year have been of great 

 value as will be learned from the Curators' report. To the Curator- 

 in-charge I must express my thanks for acknowledging in my behalf, 

 the donations as received. 



Among the miscellaneous correspondence we have received noti- 

 fication of the death of eminent students many of whom were 

 numbered among our membership. 



A number of letters of slight interest have been referred to the 

 members of the Bureau of Scientific Information or answered 

 directly. 



Respectfully submitted, 



George H. Horn, M, D., 



Corresponding Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN. 



The additions made to the library during the year ending 

 November 30, 1887 amount to 3380. They consist of 447 volumes, 

 2908 pamphlets, part of periodicals and of works issued in numbers 

 and 25 maps, sheets etc, 



A complete catalogue of these additions is appended. They have 



been received from the following sources : — 



Societies, 1283 



Editors, 836 



I. V. Williamson Fund, . , . 673 



Authors, 231 



Brazilian Government, .... 83 



Mr. John H. Redfield, .... 37 



"Wilson Fund, 35 



U. S. Department of the Interior, 27 



Executors of Dr. George Martin, 19 



In Exchange 14 



U. S. Department of State, . . 12 



By Subscription, 10 



H. B. M. Government, .... 10 



Smithsonian Institution, 

 Geological Survey of Russia, 

 Hon. Chas. M. Betts, . . 

 Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger, 

 Angelo Hcilprin, . . , 

 U. S. War Department, 

 Geological Survey of Portugal 

 Mexican Government, . 



Publishers, 



Pennnsylvania State Board 



Health, 



R. Schomburgk, . . . • 

 Yale College, 



of 




1887.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



409 



Geological Survey of Canada, . 9 

 Thomas Meehan, .... 8 

 Geological Survey of Kentucky, 8 

 Geological Survey of New Jersey, 7 

 Geological Survey of India, . . 7 

 U. S. Treasury Department, . . 7 

 Norwegian Government, ... 7 

 United States Department of Agri- 

 culture, 6 



Geolgical Survey of New Zealand, 4 



British Museum, , . ... 4 



U. S. Fish Commission, ... 4 



Minister of Public Works France, 4 



Fish and Game Commissioners, 



Mass, 



G, \V. Carpenter & Co. . . . 



B. H. Warren, 



Messrs Tiffany & Co-. . . . . 

 Department ot Mines, Nova Scotia, 



W. E. D. Scott, 



Chas. E. Smith, 



E. V. d'Invilliers, 



Isaac Burk, 



Robert Nebinger, 



Mrs. Joseph E. Mitchell, . . . 



They were distributed to the several departments of the library 

 as follows : — 



Journals, 2506 



Botany, 254 



Geology, 189 



General Natural History, . . . 101 



Conchology, 55 



Entomology, 46 



Anatomy and Physiology, ... 31 



Voyages & Travels, 24 



Anthropology, ...... 19 



Bibliography, 15 



Encyclopedias, 14 



Physical Science, 13 



Mineralogy, 13 



Agriculture, 



Medicine, 



Mammalogy, 



Helminthology, 



Public Documents 



Ichthyology, 



Chemistry, 



Ornithology 



Geography, 



Herpetology, , 



Microscopy, 



Miscellaneous, (unclassified). 



7 

 6 

 6 

 4 

 4 

 1 

 1 

 23 



The Academy is to be congratulated upon at last securing an 

 almost complete set of De Martius' Flora Brasiliensis from the 

 government of Brasil. Our thanks are due Prof. Orville A. Derby 

 for efficiently endorsing our repeated applications to the Ministry of 

 Agriculture, Commerce and Public Works for this most important 

 addition to the botanical library. From the parts received we have 

 been enabled to bind eighteen volumes and efforts are being made to 

 obtain the numbers required to complete the set to date. Among 

 the other distinctively important works added during the year 

 mention may be made of a complete set of Pfliiger's Archiv, in forty 

 volumes, and a beautiful colored copy of Sibthorpe's Flora Graeca, 

 ten volumes folio. The latter has been obtained partly through 

 the I. V. Williamson Fund and partly by subscriptions from Messrs 

 Thomas Meehan, Chas Schaffer, John H. Redfield, W. S. W. Rus- 

 chenberger, Isaac C. Martindale, Aubrey H. Smith, Geo. H. Horn, 

 Wm. C. Henszey, Wm. W. Jefferis, Jacob Binder and Geo. A. 

 Binder. 



27 




410 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Special acknowledgments are also due to Mr. John H. Redfield 

 for thirty-seven volumes of botanical works not before possessed by 

 the Academy and treating for the most part of ferns ; to the execu- 

 tors of Dr. Geo. Martin for nine volumes on cryptogamic botany 

 and to Her Britannic Majesty's Government for the continuation of 

 the invaluable reports of the Challenger Expedition, thirty-two 

 volumes of which have been received. 



The accompanying list of accessions indicates our continued in- 

 debtedness to the Isaiah V. Williamson Fund, which, after our 

 exchanges, continues to be the most important source of the library's 

 growth. 



I am hajDpy to be able to report that the crowded condition of the 

 cases devoted to the journals has been in a measure relieved by the 

 erection of about one thousand feet of additional shelving. Advan- 

 tage has been taken of the increased accommodation to again revise 

 the catalogue of periodicals. The work progresses very slowly in 

 consequence of the absence of assistance and the limited time that 

 can be given to other than current work. It is intended, however, 

 as the revision progresses, to again apply to corresponding societies 

 for such deficiencies as may still exist, repeated applications being 

 sometimes necessary before a satisfactory return can be obtained. 

 Although the applications sent out during the last two or three 

 years have been productive of encouraging results, many societies 

 have not been heard from either negatively or affirmatively, and 

 these will receive special attention. 



I have been again indebted to friends of the Academy for the 

 means of securing the services of Signore E. Fronani during the 

 summer months. His entire time has been devoted to the work of 

 transcribing my original card entries, and the new catalogue has 

 progressed so far as to be in fit condition for use. The case for its 

 reception was designed and its construction suj)ervised by Mr. Jacob 

 Binder, to whom the Academy is also indebted for the satisfactory 

 completion of the additional library cases. The few cards remaining 

 to be copied (next year, it is hoped) have been placed temporarily 

 with the others and, as now arranged, the catalogue supercedes 

 entirely the hand-lists of the special departments of the library for- 

 merly in use, one defect of which, among many, was that the 

 alphabetical arrangement could not be maintained for any length of 

 time. In as much as it is easier to glance down a printed or written 

 list than to turn over a number of cards it may be that there are 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 411 



certain inconveniences in the use of a card catalogue by specialists 

 who, for the most part, desire to consult only the books belonging 

 to their own department, but the accuracy of the alphabetical ar- 

 rangement and the certainty of finding the entry in its proper place 

 with an indication of the position of the book in the library, more 

 than counterbalance the disadvantages. 



Two hundred and thirty-four volumes have been bound during the 

 year. They were mostly special works received in numbers and 

 some I. V. Williamson journals. Hundreds of volumes of periodicals 

 yet remain to be bound. An effort is being made to lessen the in- 

 convenience of consulting these by glueing the numbers of each 

 volume firmly together, but this cannot be considered more than a 

 temporary expedient and it is earnestly hoped that means may be 

 soon provided for their permanent arrangement. 



An interesting portrait in oil of Thomas Say, formerly one of the 

 series belonging to Peale's Museum, has been received from Mrs. 

 Joseph E. Mitchell. 



All of which is respectfully submitted. 



Edw. J. Nolan. 



Librarian. 



KEPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



The Curators present the following statement of the Curator-in- 

 Charge as their report for the year 1887 : — 



The Curator-in-Charge respectfully reports that the collections of 

 the Academy are, generally speaking, in good condition, and that there 

 has been but insignificant loss to the Museum through either care- 

 lessness or unintentional neglect. The various departments of the 

 institution have been more or less dependent for their development 

 upon the volunteer labors of specialists in their several sections, 

 and for the valuable assistance thus rendered the Curator-in-Charge 

 desires to express his grateful acknowledgements. The thanks of 

 the Academy are especially due to Mr. George W. Tryon, Jr., Conser- 

 vator of the Conchological Section, to Mr. J. H. Redfield, Conserva- 

 tor of the Herbarium, and to Mr. Jacob Binder, Conservator of the 

 collection of minerals bequeathed to the Academy by the late 

 Mr. Wm. S. Vaux, who have severally devoted much time and la- 

 bor to the interests of the collections under their charge. To the 




412 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Entomological Section, likewise, acknowledgement is due for work 

 done in connection with the caring for the collection of insects. 



In the departments other than those here specified the work has 

 been done under the immediate suj^erintendence of the Curator-in- 

 Charge and his assistant, Mr. J. E. Ives, whose services were secured 

 in the early part of the year. As in previous years, the entire col- 

 lection of alcoholics has been carefully overhauled, and specimens 

 no longer serviceable — of which there were but few in number — re- 

 moved from the bottles. 



Much the greater part of the Curator's attention has been given 

 to the collections of the main floor, which have been largely rear- 

 ranged to the end of rendering them more accessible and of securing 

 room for further collections. The large centre cases devoted to 

 osteology have been turned lengthwise with the building, and a 

 number removed to other parts of the hall, thereby necessitating an 

 almost complete rearrangement of the collections contained therein. 

 This has been accomplished with a nearer approach to system than 

 has been possible heretofore. The bird and reptile skeletons have 

 been removed to their respective departments on the first and second 

 galleries, while the mammalian skeletons retain their former positions 

 along the south wall. The greater number of these last have been 

 carefully compared and redetermined, and the errors of previous de- 

 terminations corrected and eliminated ; it is believed that, with a 

 few exceptions, concerning which there is no record, all the forms 

 are now authoritatively determined, and arranged in accordance 

 with the most approved system of classification. The nomenclature 

 of Prof. Flower, Director of the British Museum, has been largely 

 followed. 



One of the most important pieces of work of the year has been the 

 preparation of a complete catalogue of mammalian osteology, for 

 which the Academy, is principally indebted to Mr. Ives, the assist- 

 ant to the Curator-in-Charge. The number of specimens therein re- 

 corded is 925, divided as follows among the several orders : — 



Primates 109 



Carnivoia, 297 



Ungulata and Proboscidea, . . 205 



Cheiroptera, 2 



Cetacea 62 



Sirenia, ........ 9 



It will thus be seen that while some of the orders are largely repre- 

 sented, others are very deficient, and require much in the way of addi- 



Rodentia, 191 



Edentata 13 



Insectivora, 17 



Didelphya, 19 



Monotremata, 1 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 413 



tion before they can be considered to be in any way sufficient. The 

 Academy has received much assistance toward filling gaps from the 

 Zoological Society of this city, which has on several occasions do- 

 nated some of the rarer animals which, through death, were no 

 longer serviceable in the Zoological Gardens. Among these may 

 be enumerated a hippopotamus, kangaroo, wombat, echidna, etc. 

 It is hoped that with more intimate relations between the two in- 

 stitutions further advantages of this kind may be acquired. It is a 

 singular fact in connection with the development of an institution 

 like the Academy, that while its collections frequently embrace 

 numbers of specimens that are considered rare, and not ordinarily 

 obtainable, other specimens, much moi'e common, are largely or 

 wholly wanting. Thus, in the case of our own institution, while 

 there is what might be termed a superabundance of the skulls of 

 tigers, bears and wolves, there is not a single complete skeleton 

 of the ordinary cow or ox, sheep or goat; and it was only during 

 the course of the present year that the Academy obtained, through 

 purchase ($100), the skeleton of the American bison. The disartic- 

 ulated parts of a second individual were received at about the same 

 time from the Smithsonian Institution at AVashington, through the 

 good offices of the late Prof. Spencer F. Baird. It is especially de- 

 sirable that the commoner animals should have a representation in 

 the museum, and it is earnestly to be wished that the museum fund 

 may be so far inci-eased as to permit of purchases in this direction. 

 In the department of Ornithology, the Academy has profited 

 through the services of a special taxidermist, Mr. I. S. Reiff, who 

 has, with a fair amount of care, examined the greater number of 

 the 30,000 birds in the collection, applying arsenical poisoning and 

 insect-powder where necessary, and readjusting the plumage of par- 

 tially mutilated specimens. The total number of birds marked out 

 as no longer serviceable for museum purposes is some 12 or 13, a 

 very insignificant number when the extent of the collection is taken 

 into account, and when it is remembered that this represents a 

 destruction, not only for a single year, but for several years past. 

 The immunity from insect depredations is not a little remarkable, 

 seeing how imperfect the ornithological cases appear to be in com- 

 parison with those which more modern methods have succeeded in 

 producing. An application of pure naphthaline in cores will be at- 

 tempted this year as a further preventive of destruction. The fol- 

 lowing list indicates the species of birds which have been removed 




414 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



from the cases as above stated : Tver on aromotica (Java), Treron 

 aromatica {Ambunensis, Java), Chasmarhynchus variegatus (Brazil), 

 Pitta ccerulia (Java), Casstcws hcemorrhous (S. Amer.), Alcopus picoi- 

 des (East Indies), Turdus sp.? (New Jersey), Thryothrus luscinia, 

 Icterus Girardii (Guatemala), undet. (East Indies), and Spermestes 

 Poensis (Fernando Po). 



The Ornithological department has recevied valuable and exten- 

 sive accessions during the year, the more important being a collec- 

 tion of skins from the collection of Dr. H. B. Butcher, presented in 

 the name of J. Dickinson Sergeant, and a like collection presented 

 by Dr. W. L. Abbott of this city. The latter, consisting principally 

 of birds of the United States, the West India Islands, and South 

 and Central America, is estimated to number between two and three 

 thousand skins, mostly in a very good state of preservation. These, 

 for want of space-room, have not yet been definitely located, and it 

 is imperative that some immediate provision be made for their safe- 

 keeping. 



To the departments of Geology, Mineralogy and Paleontology 

 there have been a number of additions, in the main of no very great 

 importance, except in so far as pertains to the specimens purchased 

 by the Wm. S. Vaux fund. These are referred to in the report of 

 the special conservator, herewith appended. The extensive collec- 

 tions of Florida fossils and rocks, which were obtained in the early 

 part of last year, and which, for want of case room, had been, dur- 

 ing study, temporarily deposited in the room properly belonging to 

 Archaeology and Ethnology, are now in a condition to be placed in 

 their proper position, a number (10) of new cases having recently been 

 added to the main floor. By their addition the collection of ter- 

 tiary invertebrate fossils of the Academy becomes by far the most 

 important of any in the country, and falls probably but little below 

 that of any in the world. Valuable accessions to the paleontolog- 

 ical collections are an almost complete skull, leg bones, ribs, etc., of 

 a Mastodon, found near Pemberton, N. J., which were generously 

 donated to the institution by J. Coleman Saltar, of Pemberton, and 

 Emlen McConnell, of Philadelphia, two young students of geology 

 who first called attention to the interesting find. This is the most 

 perfect specimen of the animal that has been found in the State 

 during a period of some forty years. 



There have been but few additions to the department of Arch- 

 aeology, and attention is called to the report of the Professor of 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 415 



Ethnology and Archaeology, who deplores that for Avant of room he 

 should be compelled to decline donations to this section of his de- 

 partment. The condition of overcrowding is, unfortunately, only 

 too true for almost alPithe other departments, and the necessity for 

 an extension to the present building becomes more pressing every 

 day. Unless assistance is rendered in this direction the collections 

 of the Academy, which are of their kind probably still the most ex- 

 tensive and important in the country, must cease to grow. An 

 appeal to the Legislature of the State, made in the early part of the 

 year, for aid in constructing an annex in which to exhibit the 

 natural history resources of the State of Pennsylvania and the ex- 

 tensive collection of the State Geological Survey — deposited in the 

 cellar of the Academy — was favorably reported upon in Committee, 

 but failed of its purpose by reason of a design to construct a Survey 

 Museum in the State Capital. The encouragement and endorsement 

 which the Academy's petition met fi-om many of the most 

 influential citizens of Pennsylvania — Congressional representatives, 

 merchants, manufacturers, and those most interested in the develop- 

 ment of the natural history resources of the State — lead to the hope 

 that at no very distant day that assistance may be obtained which has 

 so long been needed. In the meantime it is earnestly to be hoped that 

 he patriotic instincts of the citizens of Philadelphia will generously 

 assert themselves, and not allow that institution to go in Avant which 

 has cast so much lustre, not only upon the science of the city, but 

 upon the science of the whole country. 



In its educational Avorkings the Academy is doing much good. 

 The museum has been thrown open free to the classes of all institu- 

 tions of learning, and the collections are largely made use of by 

 schools both in and out of the city. The attendance at the class 

 lectures, as well as participation in the field-excursions in connection 

 with these, is also considerable, and shows that the facilities for 

 study and work aflbrded by the Academy are largely appreciated. 

 The course of popular evening lectures Avhich, on the recommenda- 

 tion of the professors, and with the approval of the Council, was 

 inaugurated in the spring of last year, has proved successful beyond 

 expectation, and has led to the preparation of a more extended 

 course, now in process of execution. Unfortunately, the hall of the 

 Academy is not well suited to the delivery of lectures to large 

 audiences, and hence no absolute satisfaction can be given to a large 

 proportion of the listeners. But the character of the attendance 

 speaks well for the interest in the work. 




416 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1887. 



In connection with the work of facilitating study in the several 

 departments of natural history, the Curator-in-Charge desires to 

 call attention to a synoptic collection of minerals, rocks, and fossils, 

 which has been arranged on the main floor as a practical key or 

 guide to geological inquiry and to the various text-books that have 

 been prepared upon the subject. The arrangement of the collection, 

 which is contained in ten table-cases, is approximately as follows : 

 rock-forming minerals, accessory minerals in rocks, ores, rocks proper, 

 rock-structures, distinctive groups of fossils, and the genera of recent 

 shells. It is thought that through a collection of this kind much 

 valuable assistance can be given to the student, to whom the large 

 general collections of the Academy can be of but little service. 



Specimens for study have during the year been loaned to Profs. 

 Scott and Osborn, of Princeton, N. J., Prof R. P. Whitfield, of 

 New York, and Prof. O. C. Marsh, of New Haven. 



In conclusion, the Curator-in-Charge desires to call attention to 

 three pressing wants of the Academy: 1. The absolute need of an 

 extension to the present building, Avherein to store the rapidly 

 increasing collections, and to accommodate the material already in 

 possession that can no longer find proper place for exhibition. 

 2. An amphitheatre or lecture-hall suitable for large audiences ; 

 and 3. A museum fund, wherewith to purchase such needed speci- 

 mens for the Museum as do not come in the regular way of donation. 

 It is also earnestly recommended that some provision be made 

 toward permitting access to the Museum on Sundays. It cannot be 

 denied that a large part of the population of our city is debarred 

 from the advantages offered by the Academy by reason of the in- 

 stitution being closed on the only day which is free to the artisan, 

 merchant or mechanic. Complaint in this regard is frequently 

 made, and it is much to be wished that the Academy may at an 

 early day meet the generous demand that is made upon it. The 

 additional expense that would be entailed upon the institution 

 through such opening, while beyond the resources available at pres- 

 ent, must necessarily be slight, and it is but fair to assume that such 

 assistance might be obtained as will permit of the project being car- 

 ried into execution. 



Very respectfully, 



Angelo Heilpkin, 



Curator-in- Charge. 

 Joseph Leidy, 



Ch'ri Curators. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 417 



EEPORT OF THE CURATOR OF THE WILLIAM S. 

 VAUX COLLECTIONS. 



The Curator of the William S. Vaux collections respectfully 

 submits his fifth annual report to the Council of the Academy : — 



The collections are in good order and condition. No change has 

 been made since the report of 1886, except such as would necessarily 

 result from the introduction of the new specimens added to the 

 collections. 



During the year 156 specimens were purchased at a cost of $638.00. 

 To accommodate the increase, $44.60 have been expended for two 

 new cases. 



The collections consist at present as follows : — 

 Number of mineral specimens as per report of 1886, . 6,630 



Purchased during the year ending November 30, . . 156 



Total, 6,786 



Archseological specimens (same as reported in 1886), . 2,940 

 The growth of the collections since they came into the Academy's 

 possession has been as follows : — 



Specimens purchased in 1884, 60 



Specimens purchased in 1885, 104 



Specimens purchased in 1886, . . . . . 114 



Specimens purchased in 1887, ..... 156 



Total, 434 



The aggregate cost of these has been . . . $2086.70 



Among those purchased during the present year most worthy of 

 special notice may be mentioned a Stalagmite of Aragonite. This 

 specimen measures 4 ft. 4 in. in height, and weighs about 100 pounds. 

 It was taken from a cavern in the Organ Mountain, New Mexico, 

 and is believed to be an unusually fine example of stalagmitic for- 

 mation. Other interesting specimens are a fine group of Rutiles 

 from Georgia, remarkable for their high lustre and sharp angles of 

 crystallization ; a large specimen of Wulfenite from Arizona, the 

 stone matrix of which is 6 by 8 inches, coated over with beautiful 

 red translucent crystals of Molybdate of lead ; a large specimen of 

 Stibnite from Japan, weighing 125 pounds, consisting of a group of 




418 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



70 or 80 well terminated crystals of Antimony Sulphide, with beau- 

 tiful modifications; and several specimens of Azurite and Malachite 

 from Arizona. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Jacob Binder, 



Curator. 



EEPORT OF THE BIOLOGICAL AND MICRO- 

 SCOPICAL SECTION. 



During the year 17 stated meetings were held with an average 

 attendance of 10 members. 



The Annual Exhibition was held Dec. 9th, 1886 with the usual 

 success. 



One member and eight contributors were elected during the year. 



The deaths of Dr. N. A. Randolph and of Paul P. Keller were 

 announced. 



The following are the more important subjects under discussion 

 during the year: — 



December 6, 1886. Recent advances in Embryology, by Prof. 

 J. A. Ryder. 



December 6, 1886. Fructification in the Algae, by Dr. L. 

 Brewer Hall. 



January 3, 1887. Observations upon Trichia scabra, by Harold 

 Wingate. 



January 3, 1887. Demonstration of Prof Ryder's ribbon cutting 

 Microtome. 



January 17, 1887. Observations upon the eggs of the Skate, by 

 Prof J. A. Ryder. 



February 9, 1887. Upon the best methods of making Cells, by 

 Dr. L. Ashley Faught. 



February 9, 1887. The blastodermic layers in the yolk of different 

 animals, by Prof J. A. Ryder. 



February 21, 1887. The hairs and spines of Onosmodium Vir- 

 giniana and other plants, by Dr. J. B. Brinton. 



February 21, 1887. Experiments with the moth larva in refer- 

 ence to the manner in which they injure wood fibres, by George 

 B. Cock. 



March 7, 1887. Experiments with the moth larva and Cock- 

 roach with referrence to the manner in which they injure wool 

 fibres, by George B. Cock. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 419 



April 4, 1887, Upon the auatomy of the sexual apparatus of 

 the Bee, by Prof J. A. Ryder. 



April 4, 1887. Description of a new Microtome for making 

 large sections of the brain etc., by Prof. J. A. Ryder. 



April 18, 1887. The hearing organ of Mysis flexuosa, by 

 by Harold Wingate. 



April 18, 1887. Hemiarcyria serpula, by Dr. George A. Rex. 



April 18, 1887. Structure of the leaf of Deutzia, by Dr. J. B. 

 Brinton. 



April 18, 1887. Anatomy of the leg of the Honey Bee, by Dr. 

 L. Brewer Hall. 



April 18, 1887. The making of wax cells, by John C. Wilson. 



June 6, 1887. Karyokinesis, by Prof J. A. Ryder. 



September 19, 1887. The evolution of an eight-limbed verte- 

 brate, by Prof. J. A. Ryder. 



September 19, 1887. The warts upon the legs of the Horse, by 

 Prof. Harrison Allen. 



October 3, 1887. The development of the ovum in the Field 

 Mouse, by Prof. J. A. Ryder. 



October 17, 1887. Placentation in animals, by Prof. J. A. 

 Ryder. 



On October 17, a course of lectures to be delivered during the 

 winter was arranged by the lecture committee. The first one by 

 Prof J. A. Ryder upon "The two great Plans of Animal Organiza- 

 tion" was given in the hall of the Academy Monday, November 

 21, 1887. 



Very respectfully, 



Robert J. Hess, 



Recorder. 



REPORT OF THE CONCHOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The Recorder of the Conchological Section respectfully reports 

 that during the year past, such Conchological papers as have been 

 accepted have been published by the Academy as heretofore. 



The Section has lost by death, one member, Isaac Lea, LL. D. 

 who died in last December at the advanced age of ninety four years. 

 At a special meeting of the section held Dec. 14th, 1886 the follow- 

 ing minute was adopted and by direction transmitted to his family. 




420 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



" The Republic of Natural Sciences has lost a generous friend and an 

 efficient workman by the death of Dr. Isaac Lea. His services to 

 the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, have extended 

 through seventy-one years from June 1815. He was one of the 

 founders of the Conchological Section, Dec. 1866, and was its first 

 Director. During a period of over fifty years he gave his time and 

 talents, his labor, influence and money in aiding the progress of 

 Conchology in its several dejDartments and especially in that of the 

 fresh Avater mollusks. In this he was leader and master, and among 

 the first in authority. His name is conspicuous wherever Con- 

 chology is studied on account of the valuable services he has 

 rendered in this department of the Natural Sciences. 



His happy life was prolonged far beyond the common lot. AVe 

 sincerely deplore his loss. Our symj^athies are with his family. 

 We place this record on our minutes in testimony of our sense of 

 his high and in every respect exemplary character and conduct." 



Mr. G. W. Tryon Jr., Conservator, reports as follows : — 



"The presentation by Mrs. Susan D. Brown of Princeton N. J., 

 of the extensive and valuable collection of pulmoniferous land shells 

 made by her late son Albert D. Brown is the principal event in the 

 history of our section during the year. Mr. Brown, a well known 

 conchologist and one of the founders of this Section, by devoting 

 his attention to a single great group of the mollusca succeeded in 

 amassing a collection which, for the completeness of its suites and 

 beauty of arrangement ranked easily among the best in the world. 

 His mother, anxious to place these treasures where they would be 

 most useful, offered them to us subject to no restriction whatever. 



Upon consideration of the extent and condition of the collection, 

 your conservator decided that no portion of the mounted series 

 should be excluded from our cases ; for although we already pos- 

 sessed a large proportion of the species, the localities were in most 

 cases different, and the specimens frequently much finer than ours. 

 Hundreds of the species were, however, new to us. The mounting 

 and labelling of the B)-own shells was confided to Mr. Frank Stout, 

 and this duty, which has occupied his time for the major jDortion of 

 the year, has been very acceptably performed. The collection num- 

 bers 5404 trays and labels, containing 19,593 specimens. Mrs. 

 Brown also presented the fine n\icroscope used by her late son. A 

 suitable inscription has been engraved upon this instrument, which 

 is intended for the use of members of the section and conchological 

 students generally. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 421 



Other important accessions include suites of the land shells of 

 China from B. Schmacker and Rev. M. Heude, those from the latter 

 being a set of his types, a collection of Philippine and two of 

 Polynesian shells obtained by purchase, a series of the shells dredged 

 in southern American waters by Dr. Wm. H. Rush, U. S. N. includ- 

 ing a number of recently described new species, a collection from 

 Canton, Ills, from J. Wolf, and a large collection of Iowa shells from 

 B. Shimek. Our American suites have continued to be enriched, 

 as heretofore, by the gifts of numerous friends. In all 47 additions 

 from 31 sources have been made aggregating 739 lots and 3699 

 specimens (see Additions to Museum.) These have all been labelled 

 and are incorporated in the collection which now embraces 51,327 

 trays and labels and 189,150 specimens." 



Five members and fourteen Correspondents have been elected 

 during the year. 



No changes have been made in the By-Laws of the section. 

 The officers for 1888 are; 



W. S. W. Ruschenberger. 

 John Ford. 

 S. Raymond Roberts. . 

 John H. Redfield. 

 Wm. L. Mactier. 

 Edward J. Nolan. 

 Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Respectfully submitted, 



S. Raymond Roberts, 



Recorder. 



Director, 

 Vice-Director, 

 Recorder, . 

 Secretary, . 

 Treasurer, . 

 Librarian, . 

 Conservator, 



REPORT OP THE ENTOMOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The Recorder of the Entomological Section, would state that the 

 year now closing, has been one of advanced success. The meetings 

 have shown a marked improvement in the attendance of the mem- 

 bers, also in the increased interest in the proceedings. 



Much valuable information to Entomologists has been given, 

 through the remarks and addresses made by those present. Dr. 

 Horn has especially studied to assist aU who were interested in the 

 special branch of Coleoptera. The section has held seven meetings 

 in the year, at which various entomological matters have been 

 discussed. 




422 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



The American Entomological Society has been able during the 

 year to publish about 225 pages of its Transactions, and in addition 

 thereto has issued a supplementary volume, containing 351 pages, 

 making a total amount of about 575 pages of printed matter issued. 

 The collections have been cared for by the custodian and curator, 

 and are in a remarkably good condition. 



The following are the officers elected for the ensuing year. 



Director, Geo. H. Horn, M. D. 



Vice-Director, .... Rev. H. C. McCook, D. D. 



Recorder, J. H. Ridings. 



Treasurer, . . . . E. T. Cresson. 



Respectfully submitted, 



J. H. Ridings, 



Recorder. 



REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL SECTION. 



The Botanical Section respectfully reports that at the annual 

 election for the coming year, the following officers were elected : — 

 Director, . ' . . Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger. 



Vice-Director, . . . Thomas Meehan. . 



Recorder, .... Dr. Charles Schaffer. 

 Cor. Secretartj and Treasurer, . Isaac C. Martindale. 

 Conservator, .... John H. Redfield. 

 The Section is out of debt and has a balance with its Treasurer. 

 The meetings have been held regularly on the appointed evenings, 

 with a full average attendance, and honored at times by distinguished 

 visitors. At every meeting communications have been received 

 and discussed, and some of the more important have been printed in 

 the Proceedings of the Academy. 



The Herbarium continues the encouraging growth reported for 

 several years, the past year being perhaps still more encouraging 

 than the others. Through the attention of the Conservator, John 

 H. Redfield, aided by Mr. Burk, everything is distributed as fast as 

 received, and the record shows that the collection now embra;ces of 

 flowering plants and ferns a total of 27,267 species out of a possible 

 100,000 known to Botanists. 1078 were new additions of the past 

 season. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 423 



The Conservator's account of our progress in detail is attached as 

 part of this report. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Thomas Meehan, 



Vice-Director. 



Conservator's Report for 1887. — The Conservator of the Botanical 

 Section reports that the donations to the Herbarium during the 

 year closing December 12th, are estimated to be 7921 species, of 

 which 2245 are Phanerogams and Ferns, 5601 are Fungi and 75 are 

 Lichens. Of the 2245 species of phanerogamic plants and ferns, 

 1078 are believed to be new to our collection, 98 of them represent- 

 ing new genera. 1099 are North American, 611 are from Mexico 

 and South America, 64 are from the Eastern Continent and 471 are 

 Australian. What portion of the Fungi may be new to the collec- 

 tion cannot be estimated until the completion of the catalogue of 

 this Order now in progress. 



For the principal part of the large additions to the Academy's 

 collection of Fungi, we are indebted to Mrs. Anna T. Martin, widow 

 of the late Dr. Geo. Martin of West Chester, who has presented to 

 us the entire collection made by her husband, consisting of 4040 

 specimens neatly mounted in pockets and placed in boxes, and all 

 numbered to correspond with MSS. catalogues accompanying^ 

 These were mostly collected by Ravenel, Rehm, Kunze, Rabenhorst, 

 and Winter and by Dr. Martin himself. The donation also included 

 Centuries I to XVII of Ellis' North American Fungi, of which 15 

 Centuries are duplicates to those possessed by us. Drs. Rex and 

 Wingate have also kindly presented Centuries XVIII and XIX of 

 the same series making it complete to the present time. These im- 

 portant additions taken in connection with the earlier collections of 

 Schweinitz, Ravenel, Michener and others, make this department of 

 our Herbarium of unusual value, and call for thorough re-arrange- 

 ment and critical examination of our material and the preparation 

 of such a catalogue of our Fungi, as shall make the whole readily 

 accessible and useful to students. This task has, by the Section, been 

 committed to Messrs. Stevenson, Rex, Brinton and Wingate, and 

 we may hope it will be completed within another year. 



The number of species of phanerogams and ferns, represented in 

 our Herbarium at date of last report, was .... 26,189 

 to which add the estimated accessions of the past year . 1,078 

 and we have the estimated present total .... 27,267 




424 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Among the additions of the past year worthy of special notice are 

 the following, for which we are indebted to members of the Section : — 

 four remittances from Baron F. von Miiller of Melbourne, Australia, 

 through Mr. Meehan, coutaiaing 471 species of Australian plants, 

 of which 310 are new to the collection, 52 of them representing new 

 genera : — a collection made by Dr. Palmer in the Mexican State of 

 Jalisco, in 1886, embracing 510 species, of which one-half were new 

 to us : — and a first instalment of the plants collected by N. N. Rusby 

 in Chili, Bolivia and Brazil in 1885 and 1886, consisting of about 

 450 species. Most of the latter are yet undetermined except as to genus, 

 but it is estimated that about one-half are new to us, mauy of them 

 being yet undescribed. 



The time and labor required for the proper care of the new addi- 

 tions and for their incorporation into the Herbarium, have some- 

 what retarded the work of mounting the North American portion of 

 it, nevertheless material progress has been made. All of the Poly- 

 petalous and Monopetalous orders are now mounted and some portions 

 of the remainder, leaving less than one-fourth of the work yet unac- 

 complished. In all the work that has been performed, the Conser- 

 vator has been greatly aided by the efficient services of Mr. Isaac 

 Burk. 



In order to provide space for the Martin collection of Fungi, it 

 became absolutely necessary to make some disposal of a large amount 

 of duplicate plants, which had been gradually accumulating through 

 a long period of years, many of them of considerable value, others 

 in bad condition. These by vote of the Section, have been sent to 

 Bryn Mawr College on terms believed to be mutually advantageous, 

 and the proceeds will be used for the increase of the Herbarium. 



A complete list of the additions accompanies this report, and will 

 appear in its proper place, under the head of "Additions to the 

 Museum." 



Respectfully submitted, 



John. H. Redfield, 



Conservator. 



REPORT OF THE MINERALOGICAL AND 

 GEOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The Mineralogical and Geological Section would respectfully re- 

 port to the Academy, that a number of meetings have been held 




1887.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



425 



during the year, but that owing to absence of members and other 

 causes, the attendance and interest has not been as great as in former 

 years, nor have the additions to the collections been as large, ex- 

 cepting those to the Vaux collection. 



It would also report that the officers elected for the ensuing year, 

 are as follows : 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF INVERTEBRATE 

 PALEONTOLOGY. 



The Professor of Invertebrate Paleontology respectfully reports 

 that during the year he has conducted a course of practical instruc- 

 tion in geology and paleontology, the course comprising some twenty- 

 five lectures in the class-room and nine field demonstrations. The 

 attendance in the lecture-room was about forty, and in the field 

 thirty or more. Much good work was done in the field, the two ex- 

 cursions to the marl diggings in the southern part of New Jersey, 

 adding considerably to our knowledge of the Tertiary fauna of the 

 State. Thirty species not hitherto recorded had been identified, 

 and three new forms determined. The existence of the Newer 

 Miocene deposits had also been determined by one of the members 

 of the class, Mr. Lewis Woolman, who has published a paper on the 

 subject in the Proceedings of the Academy. The undersigned has 

 Kkewise prepared a paper upon the New Jersey Miocene fauna, giv- 

 ing a complete list of the Miocene MoUuscan species known to date. 

 The excursion supplementary to the general course, extended over a 

 period of nineteen days, comprising the region between the Del- 

 aware Water Gap and the Catskill Mts., and was particij^ated in by 

 fifteen students. 

 28 




426 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



The collections in the department of Invertebrate Paleontology 

 have received a number of accessions during the year, but none of 

 very great importance. Attention is called in the report of the 

 Curators to the addition of a number of new cases to the main floor 

 of the Museum, which will now permit of the definite location of the 

 Academy's share of the extensive series of fossils collected in Florida 

 in the early part of last year, and which, during study, had been 

 temporarily deposited in the room pertaining to Ethnology and 

 Archaeology. The arrangement of a synoptic geological and paleon- 

 tological collection, designed as a "key" or practical manual for the 

 student, is also indicated in the Curator's report. 



The collections in general have been studied by a number ot 

 students from the city schools, and material from them has been sent 

 to Prof. R. P. Whitfield, of New York, to assist in the preparation 

 of an extensive work on the fossil invertebrate fauna of the State of 

 New Jersey. 



Very respectfully, 



Angelo Heilprin, 

 Frof. of Invertebrate Paleontology. 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF INVERTEBRATE 

 ZOOLOGY. 



The Professor of Invertebrate Zoology respectfully reports, that 

 during the past year he has delivered a series of ten lec- 

 tures on the "Sense Organs in the Animal Kingdom," besides hav- 

 ing conducted a class in animal dissection during the spring months. 

 In the autumn he inaugurated a class in practical comparative his- 

 tology, which at present numbers six students, meeting once a week, 

 on Saturdays. 



A course of some five lectures is intended to be given during 

 January and February of the coming year, on "Certain Chapters in 

 Zoological Philosophy." 



The additions to the Museum have not been very numerous nor 

 especially important, although comprising a number of interesting 

 forms that have been heretofore wanting. Much improvement 

 has been made by the Curator-in-Charge, in the more systematic 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 427 



arrangement of the collections, and it is hoped in a very short time 

 a regular zoological sequence may be established. 



Very respectfully, 



Benjamin Shaep, 

 Professor of Invertebrate Zoology. 



REPOKT OF THE PROFESSOR OF MINERALOGY. 



The Professor of Mineralogy respectfully reports that since his 

 last published report he has delivered in the Hall of the Academy 

 a course of twenty-five lectures on Mineralogy, to a class of some 

 thirty persons. Field excursions and lectures in the neighborhood 

 of the city were given, as well as practical instruction in the labora- 

 tory of the Academy. During the past two years no lectures were 

 given on account of absence in Europe, the undersigned being en- 

 gaged during the winters in petrological studies at the University of 

 Heidelberg, and during the summers at geological researches in 

 Great Britain and on the continent. It is intended to deliver a 

 course of illustrated lectures upon Microscopical Petrology during 

 the present Avinter. 



As shown by the accompanying report of the Curators, the min- 

 eralogical collection of the Academy has been enriched by a num- 

 ber of valuable additions. 



Respectfully submitted, 



H. Carvill Lewis, 



Professor of Mineralogy. 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF ETHNOLOGY AND 

 ARCHEOLOGY. 



During the past year a private course of six lectures were deliv- 

 ered by me on Anthropology and several on Archaeology in the pop- 

 ular course. They were well attended, and there have been many 

 indications that these subjects and those of pre-historic man and 

 Ethnology, which are properly branches of it, are exciting more and 

 more attention, both in the American scientific world at large and 

 particularly in this community and among members of the Academy. 




428 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



The proposition has been urged by several members that a section 

 be formed especially devoted to these studies. If the time is not 

 already ripe for this, it undoubtedly will be soon. 



In my last report, the attention of the Academy was called to the 

 insufficient accommodations now provided for the Archifiological 

 and Ethnological collections of the Academy, and a resolution was 

 passed asking more specific statements on this point. The facts are 

 these : The present collection is scattered throughout the building, 

 portions of it being in every room where there are any collections 

 at all. Many of the objects are crowded together in space too re- 

 stricted to allow of their proper display. Many have to be stored 

 away in drawers or closed cases where the public or even students 

 can derive no advantage from them whatever. It has been found 

 impossible to arrange them in any satisfactory manner. In order to 

 accomplish this a much larger space should be assigned this branch 

 than it now occupies, and all the objects properly belonging to it 

 should be collected and disposed in the most illustrative manner. 

 The jDlan of such an arrangement should be distinctly the Ethnolog- 

 ical plan, not that adopted in the IS^ational Museum at Washington, 

 which for scientific piurposes is the worst conceivable. 



A great advantage which such increased space and scientific dis- 

 jDlay would have would be to render manifest in what departments 

 of anthropology the Academy is deficient, and would stimulate 

 members and their friends to supply such deficiencies. This would 

 not be difficult to accomplish. On several occasions gentlemen 

 have offered excellent collections either for gift or for deposit in the 

 Academy, provided we could give them fair space for display. I 

 have felt obliged to decline such offers as I knew that with the space 

 at my command it was not possible to satisfy the reasonable expec- 

 tations of the donors. 



The additions during the year to the department under my charge 

 have neither been numerous nor specially important, the most note- 

 worthy being a collection of Peruvian mummies and crania, pre- 

 sented by Messrs. G. Y. and W. H. McCracken. 

 Respectfully submittrd, 



D. G. Beinton, 

 Professor of Ethnology and Archceology. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 429 



SUMMARY OF THE REPORT OF WM. C. HENSZEY, 

 TREASURER, 



. For THE Year Ending Nov. 30, 1887. 

 Dr. 



To Initiation Fees ^110 00 



" Contributions (semi-annual) lo89 16 



" Life Memberships 100 00 



" Admissions to Museum 292 95 



" Publication Committee — Sales of Proceedings, Journal, 



etc 504 12 



" Microscopical and Biological Section — Donation 50 00 



" State Tax on Mortgages ]]3 10 



" Miscellaneous IG 40 



" Lecture Fees 370 75 



" Estate Isaac Lee dec'd., Contribution for Dr. Genth's 



plates 96 50 



" Duplicate Books 1 25 



" Interest on Investments 2306 83 



" Interest on Money awaiting Investment 1097 13 



" Rentals from Real Estate 1859 33 



" Wilson Fund, toward Salary of Librarian ,300 00 



" Investment Fund, amt. transferred 4000 00 



" Museum Fund, amt. transferred 105 00 



^12912 52 



Cr. 



By Balance overdrawn from last account ^1237 92 



" Salaries, Janitors, etc 3403 56 



" Printing and Binding Proceedings, etc 707 85 



" Printing and Stationery 294 71 



" Repairs 4oO 92 



" Plates and Engravings 242 10 



" Gas 94 29 



« Postage 180 54 



" Coal 367 50 



" Cards, Trays and Boxes 139 08 



" Insurance 55 00 



•" Books 18 00 



" State Taxes on Mortgage Investments 122 85 ' 



" Water Rents 30 50 



" Miscellaneous 910 88 



'* Vials 29 75 



" Mounting Specimens 49 10 



" Lecture Fees paid to Professors 307 27 



" Cases and Drawers 571 25 



" Taxes and Water Rents 1887, Real Estate 338 85 



" Repairs and Expenses, Real Estate 1253 04 



" Life Memberships transferred to Investment Fund 100 00 



10904 96 



Balance $2007 56 




430 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



I. V. WILLIAMSON LIBRARY FUND 



Investment Fund, amt. transferred $1750 00 



Books 1516 40 



Repairs to houses 389 14 



Taxes and Water Rents 194 93 



Binding 97 95 



Collecting 83 35 



$4031 77 



Balance per last statement $2023 58 



Rents Collected 1003 50 



Ground Rents Collected 697 09 



3724 17 



Balance overdrawn $ 307 60 



THOMAS B. WILSON LIBRARY FUND. 



Balance overdrawn as per last statement $ 147 08 



Books : 117 61 



Binding 18 00 



Cash transferred to General Account toward Salary of Librarian, 300 00 



$ 582 69 

 Less Income from Investments 525 00 



Balance overdrawn : $ 57 69 



JESSUP FUND. (For Assistance of Students.) 



Interest on Investments $ 560 00 



Balance overdrawn per last statement 99 



Disbursements 271 00 



271 99 



Balance $ 288 01 



WM. S. VAUX FUND. 



Balance per last statement $ 512 54 



Interest on Investments 600 00 



$1112 54 

 Cash paid for Minerals 793 25 



Balance $ 319 29 



There is now a balance in the Investment Fund of twenty three thousand one 

 hundred and forty nine dollars -^^^ to be invested. 




1887.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



431 



The election of Officers, Councillors and Members of the Finance 

 Committee, to serve during 1888, was held, with the following 

 result. 



Joseph Leidy, M. D. 



Thomas Meehan, 



Rev. Henry C. McCook, D. D. 



Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 



George H. Horn, M. D. 



William C. Henszey. 



Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 



Joseph Leidy, M. D. 



Jacob Binder, 



W. S. W. Ruschenberger, M. D. 



Angelo Heilprin. 



Charles P. Perot, 



John H. Redfield, 



S. Fisher Corlies, 



Charles Morris. 



Isaac C. Martindale, 



Aubrey H. Smith, 



S. Fisher Corlies, 



George Y. Shoemaker, 



William W. Jefferis. 



President, 

 Vice-Presidents, 



Recording Secretary, 



Corresponding Secretary, 



Treasurer, 



Librarian, 



Curators, 



Councillors to serve three 

 years, .... 



Finance Committee, 



ELECTIONS DURING 1887. 



MEMBERS. 



January 25. — William Osier, M. D., Bernard Persh, Geo. B. 

 Cresson, Joseph Whitehouse, William B. Marshall. 



March 29.— Albert W. Vail, Richard B. Westbrook, William P. 

 Wilson, George O. Praetorius, AVilliam Blasius. 



June 28. — Theodore Wernwag. 



August 30. — Harold Wingate. 



October 25. — Craig D. Ritchie. 



November 29. — Miss Mary E. Schively, Gavin W. Hart, Rev. R. 

 H. Fulton, D. D., Charles A. Davis, D. D. S. 



CORRESPONDENTS. 



March 29.— W. K. Brooks of Baltimore, Md. 

 May 31. — Henry A. Ward of Rochester, Addison E. Verrill of 

 New Haven, R. P. Whitefield of New York, Edgar A. Smith of 




432 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



London, August Brot of Geneva, E. Ray Lankester of London, 

 William E. Hoyle of Edinburgh,, Edward Von Martens of Berlin, 

 William Kobelt of Schwanheim, S. Clesson of Ochsenfurt, Rev. M. 

 Heude S. J.^ of Zika-Wei, Rudolph Berg of Copenhagen, A. S. 

 de Rochebrune of Paris, Herman Friele of Bergen. 

 November 29. — Orville A. Derby of Rio de Janeiro. 

 ^ Declines election. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF>HILADELPHIA. 433 



ADDITIONS TO THE MUSEUM. 



1887. 

 Ethnology and Archeology. , 



M. Sommerville. Indian implement, Northampton Co., Pa. 



J. W. Brown. Aboriginal axe (locality unknown). 



W. R. D. Blackwood. Aboriginal club. South Sea Islands. 



A. M. Parsons. Aztec skull, from City of Mexico. 



Mrs. W. Lorenz. Aboriginal celts and copper implements, from Peru. 



C. R. Bee. Spaniard's skull. 



E. T. Ingram. Aboriginal implements from Cope's Mills, near West Chester, Pa. 



Mammalia. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Fetrogale penicillatus, Australia; Hippo- 

 potamus at)tp/iibius ; Echidna hysirix ; Ovis tragclaphus (Atlas Mts.); Ma- 

 cropus giga)/ teas (AiKiralia). Woml:iat; black leopard. 



Smithsonian Institution. Skeleton and hide of bison. 



Academy of Natural Sciences (purchased). Skeleton of bison. 



Frank Thomson. Head of bison. 



Birds. 



J. Dickinson Sergeant. 297 North American birds collected by A. B. Butcher. 

 Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Cacaitta sulfurea ; Cacatua galerita ; Crax 



Daubentoni, Brazil. 

 "W. L. Abbott. Collection of between 2000 and 3000 bird-skins, mainly North 



American. 

 P. Schoenberg. Diatiedea exulans and Puffinus t>iela7iurus, from the S. W. 



coast of South America. 



Reptiles. 



H. C. Young. 33 specimens of Tropidonothus sipedon, taken from a female shot 

 near Salem, N. J. 



Fishes. 



J. Binder. Chilofnycterns turgidus, from Atlantic City, N. J. 



Vertebrata (Fossil). 



Thomas Hockley. Carcharodon Melegadon (tooth), S. Carolina. 



B. L. Fetherolf. Amphibian footprint, Carboniferous of Barnesville, Pa. 

 L. Woolman. Rhizodus (scale i, Carboniferous of Mazon Creek, 111. 



J. C. Saltar and Emlen McConnell. Skull, leg-bones, etc., of Mastodon, found 

 near Peniberton, New Jersey. 



MOLLUSCA. 



W. G. Binney. Seven species of American land shells. (Types.) Helix w^tata, 

 Bourg , Algeria. 



E. T. Brown. Buccinum tindatttt/i, egg capsule, Nahant, Mass. 



J. J. Brown. Uiiio Canadensis and Anodonia Benedictii, from Wisconsin. 



Mrs. S. D. Brown. The A. D. Brown collection of pulmoniferous land shells 

 5404 trays, containing 19,593 specimens. A fine microscope with complete fit- 

 tings. 



S. E. Caldwell. Unio complanatus. Nova Scotia. 



H. C. Chapman. Four species marine shells from Bar Harbor, Maine; Tere- 

 bratulina septentionalis. Bar Harbor, Maine. 




434 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Conchological Section. Ninety-five species (types) of Chinese land shells, des- 

 cribed by Rev. M. Heude. Modiola capax. Gulf of California; Eighty-five 

 trays, land, fresh water and marine shells from the Philippine Islands; Sixty -six 

 trays Polynesian shells (from Andrew Garrett, Society Islands) ; Forty-seven trays 

 marine shells from Southern coast U. S. and West Indies collected by W. H. 

 Rush, M. D. 



Rev. A. Dean. Twelve trays Unionidae; Seven trays fresh-water shells, from 

 Alabama. 



Miss A. M. Fielde. Cerithium microptera and Onchidium TyphcB, Swatow, China. 



F. J. Ford. Unio Popenoei, Kansas. 



J.Ford. Patella tramoserica, Lunatia plumbea, from Australia; Tellina ra- 

 diata, Barbadoes. 



A. Garrett. Five species Indo-Pacific shells. 

 C. N. Johnson. Six species of Florida shells. 



E. A. Kelley. Ariolimax Californicus, Napa Co., California. 

 Joseph Leidy, M. D. Conns suffusus, New Caledonia; Helix cellaria, Hor- 

 ticultural Hall, Philadelphia. 

 W. B. Marshall. Three species of fresh-water shells, from Albany, New York. 

 Oberlin College. Planorbis campamclatiis, Ohio. 

 C. R. Orcutt. Olivella zonalis. La Paz, L. California. 

 P. Ruggles. Two species of Pisidiu?n, from Connecticut. 



B. Schmacker in exchange. One hundred and nine trays land, fresh-water and 

 marine shells from China. 



Miss E. H. Schofield. Goniobasis symmetrica. Cold Creek, N. C, 4000 ft. altitude. 

 Benjamin Sharp. Eighteen trays European land, fresh-water and marme shells. 



B. Shimck. One hundred and twenty-two trays land and fresh-water shells from 

 Iowa. 



C. T. Simpson. Eleven trays Honduras shells. 



W. W. Westgate. Unio glebnlus, Buffalo Bayou, near Houston, Texas. 



J. Willcox. Nine trays marine shells from Charlotte Harbor and Sarrasota Bay, 



Florida; A'lelongena corona, W. coast of Florida; Yoldia thraciceformis, off 



Halifax, N. S. 

 J. Wolf. Thirty four trays land and freshwater shells, from Canton, Illinois. 



Invertebrata (recent) excluding Mollusca. 



W. W. Jefferis. Coral (undetermined), from the Bahamas; Brissus pectoralis 

 (Bahamas); sponge (undetermined), Bahamas; Ctenactis echinata, Red Sea; 

 trap of trap-door spider, CalifcM-nia; Po)-ites conglomerata,^Qd Sio.; Herpet- 

 olitha Umax, Indian Ocean; seven specimens of sponges (Bahamas?) 



H. C. Chapman Chalina oculata, Phakellia ventilabrum, Hymeniacidott ficus 

 (sponges), Boltenia renifor/nis. Actinia (sp. ?,i, Asterias Forbesii, Aphrodite 

 (sp. ?j, from Mt. Desert ; Scolopendra, from Brazil ; Physaha pelagica, Baha- 

 mas. 



H. C. Chapman. Collection of invertebrates from Mt. Desert. 



Joseph Walton. Paractis rapiformis, from Atlantic City, N. J. ; Squilla mantis. 



Joseph Willcox. Sponges, from west coast of Florida. 



John Ford. Serpula with Eschara, Atlantic City, New Jersey. 



H. A. Ward. Verrilia Blakei (two specimens), from San Juan de Fuca. 



W. S. Jones. Hippa (sp. ?), from Panama. 



A. Partridge. Tcenia saginata. 



I. C. Martindaie. Flustra foliacea, from England. 



J. H. Redfield. Spirorbis nautiloides, from Bar Harbor, Maine. 



Invertebrata (Fossil). 



Thomas Hockley. Favosites Gothlandica, Halysites catenulata, and Crinoid- 



stems, from the Silurian of Norway. 

 E. P. Boshart. Lithostrotion from Lewis Co., New York. 




1887.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 435 



L. Woolman. Acanthotehon Stimpsoni, Aca>tthoteho7i (sp. ?). PalcEocaris typus, 



from tlie Carboniferous of Mazon Creek, III. 

 Joseph Willcox. Thirteen trays of Tertiary fossils from Florida. 

 Conchological Section A. N. S. One hundred and forty five trays Miocene fossils 



from the Touraine (collected by G. Dollfus.) 



Plants (Recent). 



Baron F. von Miiller, Melbourne, Australia ; through Thomas Meehan, 471 species 

 Australian plants, mostly new to the collection. 



Prof. C. S. Sargent. Myginda i>ites;ri folia, Cratagns berberidifolia, Eugenia 

 tnonticohi, Drypetes gLuica, from Florida and Louisiana. 



J. Donnell Smith. Halesia parviflora. from Florida. 



Prof. Thomas C. Porter. Khizoviorpha subcoriicale ? a fungus attached to timbers, 

 Dickinson Iron Mines, 75U feet below the surface ; 16 species of Pennsylvania 

 plants. 



Prof. N. L. Britton. of Torrey Herbarium, N. Y. 14 species of North American 

 CyperaceiB ; Hotistonia Crofiia, new species from Texas. 



Isaac Burk. '2'1 species plants from vicinity of Richmond, Va. ; 20 species plants 

 from ballast grounds, Philadelphia and Camden ; 5 species plants cultivated in 

 Horticultural Grounds, Fairmount Park. 



Mrs. Anna T. Martin, widow of Dr. Geo. Martin. The extensive collection 

 of Fungi made by Dr. Martin, all neatly mounted in pockets, numbered to cor- 

 respond with catalogues accompanying; contained in 96 boxes, comprising 

 4040 specimens, and representing probably 3700 species; also 17 Centuries of 

 Ellis' North American Fungi. 



Drs. Geo. A. Rex and Dr. H.'Wingate. 18th and 19th Centuries of Ellis' North 

 American Fungi, making the series complete to this date. 



Miss Adele M. Fielde, Swatow, China. Flowering and leafy shoots and cones of 

 Cunninghaviia Sinensis and Pinus Sinensis. 



Prof. E. L. Greene. 48 species of new or little known California plants, mostly 

 from the islands of Santa Cruz and San Miguel. 



Dr. Geo. Vasey. 23 species plants, mostly cultivated from seed in the Agricult- 

 ural Grounds at Washington ; remarkable fasciation of a flowering raceme 

 Sophora secundijiora. from Texas. 



Dr. A. Gattinger. 12 species of Tennessee plants. 



Rev. Thomas Morong, through Isaac C. Martindale. 17 species o^ Potamogeton, 

 being authenically named duplicates from the collection of Dr. J. W. Robbins. 



Isaac C. Martnidale. Cyperus longus, collected by Rugel at Austin, Texas. 



Prof. F. L. Harvey. Calla pahtstris, from Orono, Maine. 



Rev. Mr. Butler, through Thomas Meehan. 20 species plants from Labrador. 



Aubrey H. Smith. 27 species plants collected by him near Warm Springs, N. C. 



Richard LI. Day. Actinella acaiilis and Clematis alpina, from Colorado. 



Dr. J. W. Eckfeldt. 30 species of N. American Lichens, of which 16 are new to 

 the collection ; 34 species of Hungarian Lichens, all new to the collection. 



Dr. J. Bernard Brinton. Rhus setnialaia, var. Osbeckii, cultivated, a native of China 

 and Japan. 



W. A. Stowell. Woodsia nbUisa and var. Darlingicnii oi \.ht same, N. Jersey. 



G. W. Tryon, Jr. Mikatiia scandens, from Montgomery Co., Pa. 



Thomas Meehan. 8 species plants collected by Mrs. Meehan in Florida and Lou- 

 isiana, inFebruary 1887; Pkoradendron ju?iiperinttm with berries, parasitic on 

 Juniperus occidentalism collected in Arizona by Dr. Robert Douglass; 55 species 

 cultivated plants, mostly new to the collection ; 449 species plants collected in 

 South America (mostly in Bolivia), by H. H. Rusby in 1885 and 1886, of which 

 187 species new to the Herbarium ; series of Cinchona plants from Bolivia, South 

 America, consisting of 8 species and 7 varieties or hybrids, collected by H. H. 

 Rusby. 



John H. Redfield. 861 species of North American plants from his collection, 

 most of them supplying gaps in the Academy's Herbarium; 131 species collec- 




436 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



ted by C. G. Pringle in Chihuahua, Mexico, in 1886, of which 84 new to the 

 Herbarium ; 510 species collected by Dr. E. Palmer in Jalisco, Mexico in 1886, 

 of which 259 are new to the collection. 



Plants (Fossil). 



G. W. Holstein. Gyroiithes Holsleini (alga) from the Carboniferous of Texas. 

 Mrs. W. Lorenz. Coal plants from Pennsylvania and Illinois, from the collection 

 of the late Mr. W. Lorenz. 



Minerals and Rocks. 



Isaac Burk. Sand concretion, from Woodbury N. J. 



A. H. Smith. Fissure products from the Carolina earthquake. 



Adele M. Fielde. Rock specimens from the Province of Quantung, China. 



R. C. McMurtrie. Garnets, from Cuba. 



Mrs. W. Lorenz. Collection of minerals, largely from Chester Co., Pa., collected 



by the Inte Mr. W. Lorenz. 

 J. Siemadzko. In exchange for a fragment of the Tennessee (Lea) meteorite: — 



Topaz, from Nertchinsk, Siberia; Topaz, from the Urals; Alexandrite, from 



Ekaterinenburg, Siberia ; Beryl, from Nertschinsk. 

 W. E. D. Scott. Sand discharged by Carolina earthquake. 

 M. Deshong. Zoisite and Grossularite, from Leiperville, Pa. 

 Joseph Willcox. Coral-sand lock. Key West, Florida. 

 J. E. Ives. Nodule of Cldorite, from Lafayette, Pa. 



T. A. Robinson. Fossiliferous rock and Pyrites, from Lake Temquisatto, Can. 

 S. R. Roberts. Hematite, from the Orinoco River, S. A. 

 H. W. Johns. Asbestos cloth. 



T. D. Rand. Modified Quartz, from Falls of Schuylkill, Pa. 

 J. C. McNelly. Hematite, from mines in Blair Co., Pa. 

 H Ready. Nodule in carboniferous shale, Clearfield Co., Pa. 

 W. W. Jefferis. Muscovite, from Delaware Co., Pa. 

 Mineralogical and Geological Section A. N. S. Smoky quartz (partjof crystal), 



from Macon Co., N. C. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 437 



ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY. 



1887. 



Abbolt, Helen, C. De S. Plant chemistry as illustrated in the production of 

 sugar from Sorghum. 8vo T. Philadelphia, 1887. 

 Plant analysis as an applied science. Philadelphia, 1887. 8vo T. 



The Author. 



Alabama, Geological Survey of. Bulletin I, 1 and 2, 1886. Otto Meyer. 



Albrecht, Paul. Ueber die cetoide Natur der Promammaliy,. Aug. 1886. 



8vo T. 



59 Versaml. deutscher Naturf. u. Aerzte zu Berlin. Aus der Sektion fiir 



Anatomic. Mittheilungen, Dez. 1886. 8vo T. 



Verlaiift der Nervenstrom in nicht geschlossener, oder geschlossener Strom- 



bahn, und wie gelangt er wenn letzteres der Fall ist, zum Sitze der elek- 



tromotorischen Kraft zuriick? Feb. 18»7. 8vo T. The Author. 



Vergleichend anatomische Untersuchungen. I, 2. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Allgemeine Naturkunde. Lief. 55-98. Leipzig 1886-87. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Andrejeff, K. Expedition der K. R. geogr. Gesell. Beobachtungen der russis- 

 chen Polarstation auf Nowaja Semlja, II Th. Meteorologische Beobach- 

 tungen. 4to, 1886. The Society. 

 Arthur, J. C. History and biology of pear blight. June 1886. 8vo T. 



The Author. 

 Australian Museum, New South Wales. Report of ftie Trustees, 1886. 



The Trustees. 

 Baillon, M. H. Dictionnaire de botanique. 21me Fasc. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Baker, Walter & Co. Cocoa and chocolate. 8vo. Dorchester. 1780-1886. 



The*Publishers. 

 Baldwin, D. D. Land shells of the Hawaiian Islands. 8vo T. The Author. 



Barrois, Th. Role des insectes dans la fecondation des vegetaux. These. 



8vo. Paris, 1886. • L V. Williamson Fund. 



Beaver, James A., Address of, Jan. 18, 1887. 8vo T. The Author. 



Beddome, R. H. The ferns of British India. 2vors. 4to. Madras 1S66-1868. 



The ferns of Southern India. 4to. Madras, 1873. John H. Redfield. 



Beecher, Chas. E. A spiral bivalve shell from the Weaverly Group of Penn- 

 sylvania. 8vo T. Albany 1886. The Author. 

 Bellardi, Luigi. I molluschi dei terreni terziari del Piemonte e della Liguria. 

 V, 1, 2. I- V. Williamson Fund. 

 Berghaus' physikaHscher Atlas. 5e,-13e Lief. 1886-87. 



1. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Berlese, Aug. N. Fungi Moricolre, IV. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Berthold, G. Studien iiber Protoplasma Mechanik 8vo. Leipzig. 1886. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Bibliographie des sciences medicales. Svo. Paris, n. d. 



Messrs P. Blakiston, Son & Co. 



Bibliotheca Americana. Suppl. 2. 8vo T. Paris, 1887. The Publisher. 



Bigelow, Robert Payne. Contributions from the Cryptogamic Laboratory of the 



Museum of Harvard College. VII. 8vo T. Sept. 1887. The Author. 



Bleeker, P. Ichthyologise Archipelagi Indici Prodromus. I. Siluri. 1858. 



I. V. Williamson Func*. 

 Board of Technical Education of New South Wales, report for 1885. Svo. 

 Sydney, 1886. The Board. 



Bohemia. Naturwissenschaftliche Landesdurchforschung von Bohmen. VI, 3. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 




438 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Bohnenseig, G. C. W. Repertorium annuum Literatuiae Botanicae periodicae, 

 VIII, 2. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Bolau, H. Der Elephant in Krieg und Frieden und seine Verwendung in unseni 

 afrikanischen Kolonien. 8vo, T. Hamburg, 1887. 



Zoological Society of Hamburg. 



Bolton, James. Filices Britannicas. 4to. Leeds, 1785. Jolm H. Redfield. 



Bombicci, L. Sulla ipotesi dell' azione e selezione magnetica nel globo terrestre 



sulle materie cosmiche interplanetarie contenenti ferro. 4to T. 1887. 



Sulla costituzione fisica del globo terrestre, suU'origine della sua crosta 



litoide. Sulle cause dei moti sismici che piu frequentemente vi Avengono. 



4to T. 1887. The Author. 



Borre, A. Preudhomme de. Catalogue des Trogides descrits jusqu'a ce jour. 



Mai. 1886. 8vo T. 



Crustac^s isopodes recueillis par feu Camille Van Volxem, pendant son 



voyage en Portugal en 1871. 8vo T. 

 Note sur le genre Ectinohoplia Redtenbacher. 8vo T. 

 Note sur les Triodonta aquila Cast, et Cribellata Fairm. 8vo T. 

 Liste des Lamellicornes laparostictiques recueillis par feu Camille Van Volxem 

 pendant son voyage dans le Midi de la Peninsule Hispanique et au Maroc 

 en 1871. 8vo T. 

 Notice sur les genres Hapalonychus Westwood et Trichops Mannerh. (inedit). 



8vo T. 

 Anomale observ^e chez un Leucopholis rorida. 8vo T. 

 Sur les especes Europeennes du genre Haplidia. 8vo T. 

 Discours du President de la Soc. Ent. de Belgique. 26 Dec. 1886. Svo T. 

 Listes des especes de Coleopteres carnassiers terrestres et aquatiques au- 



thentiques capturees en Belgique. 1885. 8vo T. 

 Note sur les Crustacees isopodes de la Belgique. Svo T. 1886. 

 Discours prononce a I'Assemble generale du 20 Dec. 1885, de la Society 



Entomologique de Belgique. 1885. 8vo T. 



Description de deux especes nouvelles du genre Aegidium Westwood suivies 



de la liste des Orphnides du Musee royale d' Histoire Naturelle de Belgique. 



. Svo T. 18S6. The Author. 



Boulenger, G. A. Catalogue of the lizards in the British Museum, 2nd Ed. 



Vol. III. Svo. London, 1887? The Trustees. 



Bourguignat, M. J. R. Etude sur les noms generiques des petites paludinid^es a 



opercule spirescent suivie de la description du nouveau genre Horatio. 



Svo. Paris, 1887. The Author. 



Boury, E. De Monographie des Scalidae vivants et fossiles. Pt. 1, Fasc. 1, 



4to, Paris 1886. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Brauns, David. Einleitung in das Studium der Geologie. Svo. Stuttgart, 1887. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Brinton, Daniel G. The conception of Love in some American languages. 

 Svo T. Philadelphia, 1886. 

 Were the Toltecs an historic nationality? Sept. 2, 1887. Svo T. 

 A review of the data for the study of the prehistoric chronology of America. 



8vo T. Salem, 1887. 



Critical remarks on the editions of Diego de Landa's writings. Svo T. 



The phonetic element in the graphic system of the Mayas and Mexicans. 



Svo T. The Author. 



Britten, N. L. Contributions from the herbarium of Columbia College, No. I. 



Preliminary list of North American species of Cyperus, with descriptions 



of new forms. 1886. Svo T. The Author. 



firown, Thomas. ColonialMuseumand Geological Survey Department. Manual 



of the New Zealand Coleoptera. I and II. 8vo. New Zealand, 1880-81. 



The Survey. 

 Bronn's Klassen und Ordnungen des Thier-Reichs. 29 L. 4er Bd. 1-4 L. 6er, 

 Bd., Ill Abih. 54-56 L., IV Abth. 16, 17, L., V, Abth. 



Wilson Fund. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 439 



Brot, A. Note sur quelques especes de Melanies nouvelles ou imparfaitement 

 connues. 8vo T. 1886. The Author. 



Briihl, Carl Bernhard. Zootomie aller Thierklassen. Atlas, L. 34-39. 4to, 

 Wien, 1886. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Buch, L. von. Palaeontologie (Bibliography.) 8vo T. The Author. 



Buckler Wm. The larvse of the British butterflies and moths. Vol. II. 1887. 



(Ray Society.) "Wilson Fund. 



Bucquoy, E., Ph. Dautzenberg and G. Dollfuss. Les mollusques marins de 



Roussillon. Fasc. 13. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Budai, Josef. Die secundaren Eruptivgesteine des Persanyer Gebirges. 8vo T. 



Budapest, 1886. Royal Hungarian Society of Natural History. 



Buffalo Library, ,51st annual report, 1887. The Trustees. 



California State Mining Bureau. Annual report of the State Mineralogist. Parts 



I and II, for the year ending June 1, 1886. 8vo. Sacramento, 1887. 



The Bureau. 



Canada. Geological and Natural History Survey. Annual report (new series), 



Vol. I, 1885. 8vo. Montreal, 1886. With portfolio of six folded maps. 



Sections for Report G. G. The Survey. 



Meteorological Service of the Dominion of Canada, report of, 1884. By 



Charles Carpmael. The Author. 



Carnelley, Thos., J. S. Haldane and A. M. Anderson. The carbonic acid, organic 



matter and micro-organisms in air. 4to T. London, 1887. 



The Author. 

 Carpenter, G. W. Essays on some of the most important articles of the Materia 

 Medica. 2nd Ed. 8vo. Philadelphia, 1834. 



Messrs Geo. W. Carpenter & Co., 



Carpenter, P. Herbert. Note on the structure of Crotalocrinus. Nov. 1886. 



8vo T. The Author. 



Caruel, Teodoro. Parlatore's Flora Italiana, VI, 1, 2, 3, ; VII, 1. The Editor. 



La morphologia vegetale. 12mo. Pisa, 1878. 



Prodromo della Flora Toscana. 8vo. Firenze, 1860-64. 



Statistica botanica della Toscana ossia saggio di studi sulla distribuzione 



geografica delle piante Toscane. 8vo. Firenze, 1871. 

 Pensieri sulla tassinomia botanica. 8vo T. Roma, 1881. 

 La questione dei Tulipani di Firenze. 8vo T. 



Note sur quelques points de la structure florale des Aracees. 8vo T. 1880. 

 Della conservazione degli erbari. 8vo T. 1887. 

 Classification des fruits. 8vo T. 1886. 

 Lettre a M. Malinvaud. 8vo T. 1886. 

 De la variabilite dans les plantes. 8vo T. 



Illustratio in hortum siccum Andrese Caesalpini. 12nio T. 1858. 

 Pensees sur la taxinomie botanique. 8vo T. 1887. The Author. 



Casey, Thos. L. Descriptive notices of North American coleoptera, I. Nov. 

 27, 1886. 8vo T. 

 On some new North American Pselaphidse. July 18, 1887. 8vo T. 



The Author. 

 Challenger, report of the scientific results of the exploring voyage of. Botany II, 

 Zoology, XVII; XVIII, 1, 2 and Plates; XIX. 



H. B. M. Government. 

 Chapman, Henry C. Treatise on human physiology. 8vo. Philadelphia. 1887. 



The Author. 



Charleston, views in prominent places in. 8vo T. 1886. W. E. D. Scott. 



Churchill, Dr. J. F. First and second reports of Free Stcechiological Dispensary 



for consumption etc. 8vo T. London, 1886. The Author. 



Chyzer, Dr. Kornel. Magyarorszag Gy6gyhelyei es Asvanyvizei. l2mo T. 1885. 



Royal Hungarian Society of Natural History. 

 City Hospital, Boston. 23rd annual report of the Trustees. 1886. 8vo T. 



The Trustees. 




440 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1887. 



Caludius, Matthias. Dissertatio de Lagenorhynchis. 8vo T. Kilice, 1853. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Cohn, F. Beitrage zur Biologic der Pflanzen, IV, 3.; V, 1. 



Kryptogamen-Flora von Schlesien. 3e L. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Cooke, M. C. Grevillea, a monthly record of cryptogamic botany and its 

 literature. I— VIII. 8vo. 1872-1880. 



Executors of Dr. Geo. Martin. 

 A plain and easy account of the British fungi. 12mo. London, 1860. 



Executors of Dr. Geo. Martin. 



Mycographia seu IcOnes Fungorum. Pt. 4. 1. V. Williamson Fund. 



Collins, Jones. Brachionopoder, Muslinger og Snegle fra Kara-Havet.. Svo T. 



Kjobenhavn, 1886. The Author. 



Collins, J. W. Gill-nets in the cod fishery etc. Svo T. April, 1881. 



U. S. Fish Commission. 

 Columbia College. School of Library Economy. Circular of Information, 1887-8. 

 Annual Register, 1886-7. Fourth annual report of Librarian. 8vo T. 



The Author. 

 Conigrave, John Fairfax. South Australia: a sketch of its history and resources. 

 Svo. London, 18S6. R. Schomburgk. 



Cooper, J. G. West Coatt Pulmonata, fossil and living. Svo T. 1887. 



The Author, 

 Cooper, William, Biographical sketch of. 8vo T. New York, 1887. 



The Authors. 

 Cope, E. D. The phylogeny of the Camelidse. July, 1886. 8vo T. 



Schlosser on the phylogeny of the ungulate Mammals. Aug. 1886- 8vo T. 



Schlosser on Creodonta and Phenacodus. 1886. 8vo T. 



Systematic catalogue of species of vertebrata found in the beds of the 



Permian epoch in North America. May 7, 1886. 4to T. 

 On two new species of three-toed horses from the Upper Miocene, with notes 



on the fauna of the Ticholeptus Beds. Feb. 19, 1886. Svo T. 

 The vertebrata of the Swift Current Creek region of the Cypress Hills. 1885. 

 Svo T. The Author. 



The origin of the fittest. Svo. New York, 1887. 



I. V. Williamson Fnnd. 

 Coppi, Francesco. Paleontologia Modenese. Svo T. Modena, 1881. 



The Author. 



Cotes, E. C. and C. Swinhoe. A catalogue of the moths of India. Pt. 1, 



Sphinges. Svo T. Calcutta, 1887. The Author. 



Cousin, Aug. Faune malacologique de la Republique de I'Equateur. 1887. 



8vo T. ' The Author. 



Cubas, Ant. G. The Republic of Mexico 1876. Svo T. Mexico, 1876. 



The Mexican Goverment. 

 Dames W. and E. Keyser. Palaeontologische Abhandlungen, III, 4, 5. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Dana James. D. Kilauea after the eruption of March, 1886. Volcanic Action. 



Feb. 1887. Svo T. 



A dissected volcanic mountain; some of its revelations. Oct. 1886. 8vo T. 



Note on the views of Prof. Emmons on the Taconic System. May, 1887. 



8vo T. The Author. 



Dawson, Geo. M. Note on the occurrence of jade in British Columbia and its 



employment by the natives. 8vo T. April, 1887. 



On certain borings in Manitoba and the Northwest Territory. 1886. Svo T. 



Montreal. The Author. 



Dawson, J. William. On the fossil plants of the Laramie formation of Canada. 



4to T. 1886. _ The Author. 



Deichmiiller, Dr. J. V. Ueber Urnenfunde in Uebigau bei Dresden. Svo T. 



1884. The Author. 



Dimmock, George. Belostomidas and some other fish-destroying hugs. Svo T. 



1886. The Author. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 441 



Dobson, G. E. Description of a new species of Vesperugo from North America. 

 8vo T. 1886. 

 Description of a new species of Soricidae in the collection of the Genoa 

 Civic Museum. April. 1887. 8vo T. The Author. 



Dollfus, Gustave & Ph. Dautzenberg. Etude preliminaire des coquilies fossiles 

 des Faluns de la Touraine. 8vo T. Paris, 1886. G. Dollfus. 



DoUey, Charles S. The technology of bacteria investigation. 12mo. Boston, 

 188-5. ■ I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Dubois, A. Compte Rendu des observations ornithologiques faites en Belgique 

 pendant I'aanee 1885. 8vo T. 

 Description de deux nouvelles esp^ces d'oiseaux. 8vo T. Bruxelles, 1887. 



The Author. 

 Dudley, William R. The Cayuga flora, Part I. 8vo. Ithaca, N. Y. 1886. 



Chas. E. Smith. 



Eigner, A. Expedition der K. R. geographischen Gesellschaft. Beobachtungen 



der russischen Polarstation an der Lenamiindung. II Th. Meteorolo- 



gische Beobachtungen, I Lief. 4to. The Society. 



Elliott, Henry W. A report upon the condition of affairs in the Territory of 



Alaska. 8vo. Washington 187.5. In Exchange. 



Encyclopaedia Britannica. 9th Ed. XXI, XXII. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Encykloppedie der Naturwissenschaften. le Abth. 49-53 L.; 2e Abth. 39-4-5 L. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Engler, A. & K. Prantl. Die natiirlichen Pflanzen Familien nebst ihren Gattungen 



und wichtigen Arten insbesondere der Nutzpflanzen bearbeitet etc. L. 



1-11. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Erichson, W. F. Naturgeschichte der Insecten Deutschland. I Abth., 3er Bd. 



■ 2e A., 2e L. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Ettinghausen, Constantin Ritter v. Die Blatt-Skelete der Dikotyledonen. Folio. 



Wien, 1861. K. K. geol. Reichs., Wein, in exchange. 



Everhart, Edg. Infant food and infant feeding. May 17, 1887. 8vo T. 



The Author. 

 Exploration Internationale des Regions Polaires, 1882-83 et 1883-84. Expedi- 

 tion Polaire Finlandaise. 4to. Society of Sciences of Finland. 

 Fairchild, Herman Le Roy. History of the New York Academy of Sciences. 

 May 10, 1886. 8vo. New York, 1887. J. H. Redfield. 

 Fischer, P. Manual de Conchyliologie. Fasc. XI and Expl. des Planches. 



The Author. 



Fischer,_P. & H. Crosse. Mis. Scient. au Mex., Rech. Zool., 7me. Partie. 



Etudes sur les mollusques terrestres. The Authors. 



Fish and Game Commissioners of Massachusetts. Report for the year ending 



December 31, 1886. 8vo T. The Commissioners. 



Flower, W. H. A general guide to the British Museum (Natural History.) 8vo 



T. London, 1887. The Trustees. 



Fokker, A. P. Untersuchungen iiber Heterogenese, I and II. 8vo. Groningen, 



1887. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Folin, Le Marq. de. Sous les Mers. 12mo. Paris, 1887. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Folin, L. de and L. P6rier. Les Fonds de la Mer. Vol's. I, II, III, IV, 1-12. 

 8vo. Paris 1867-1886. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Forel, Auguste. Diagnoses provisoires de quelques especes nouvelles de formis 

 de Madagascar, recoltees par M. Grandidier, ler. Mai, 1886. 8vo T. 

 Indian ants of the Indian Museum, Calcutta, No. 2. 1886. 8vo T, 

 Experiences et remarques critiques sur les sensations des insectes. 2me 

 Partie, 1887. 8vo T. The Author. 



Frazer, Persifor. The address of Vice-President G. K. Gilbert before Section E., 

 A. A. A. S., Columbia College, New York, August 10, 1887. 



The Author. 



Fremont, John Charles. Geographical memoir upon Upper California. 8vo. 



Washington, 1848. In Exchange. 



29 




442 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Friedland & Sohn's Bibliotheca historiconaturalis et mathematica. Lager- 

 Catalogue. 8vo. Berlin, 1886. The Publishers. 

 Fries, Elias. Systema Mycologicum, I. II, III. 1821-29. 



Epicrisis Systematis Mycologici. 12mo. Upsalise, 1836-18B8. 



Executors of Dr. Geo. Martin. 



Furtado, Arruda. Sur une nouvelle espece de cephalopode appartenant au Genre 



Ommatostrephes. 4to T. Lisbonne, 1887. The Author. 



Gattinger, Aug. The Tennessee flora, with special reference to the flora of 



'Nashville. 8vo T. Nashville, 1887. The Author. 



Gaudry, M. Albert. Le petit Ursus spelseus de Gargas. 14 Mars, 1887. 4to T. 



La grotte de Montgaudier. 8vo T. 22 Nov. 1886. The Author. 



Gavoy, E. L'Encephale, structure et description iconographique du cerveau, 



du cervelet et du bulbe. Texte and Atlas. 4to. Paris, 1886. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Gegenbaur, Carl. Zur Kenutniss der Mammarorgane der Monotremen. 4to T. 

 Leipzig, 1888. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Genth, F. A. Contr. from the Chem. Lab. Univ. Penna. No. XXIX, Contri- 

 butions to Mineralogy. 8vo T. March 18, 1887. The Author. 

 Geyler, H. Th. Zum Andenken an Herrn Adolf Metzler. 8vo T. 

 Verzeichniss der Tertiarflora von Florsheim a/M. 8vo T. 

 Ueber enie japanische Tertiarflora. 8vo T. 

 Notiz liber eine neuerdings aufgeschlossene Pliocanflora in der Umgebung 



von Frankfurt a/M. 1886. 8vo T. 

 Palffiontologie. Bibl. Bot. Jahresb. 1884. 8vo T. 

 Ueber fossile Planzen von Labuan. 1887. 8vo T. 

 Geyler, H. Th. & Ph. F. Kinkelin. Oberpliocan-Flora aus den Baugruben des 

 Klarbeckens bei Niederrad und der Schleuse bei Hochst a/M. 1887. 

 4to T. The Author. 



Giles, Pearce. The true source of the Mississippi. 8vo T. The Author. 



Girard, Maurice. Les Abeilles. 12mo. Paris, 1887. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Glaser, L. Catalogus etymologicus coleopterorum et lepidopterorum. 12mo. 

 Berlin, 1887. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Godman, F. Ducane and Osbert Salvin. Biologia Central! Americana. Zoology, 

 Pt's 51-61. Botany, Pts 22 and 23. I. V. Williamson Fund- 



Graff, Ludwig von. Die Fauna der Alpenseen. 8vo T. Graz, 1887. 



The Author. 

 Grandidier, Alfred. Histoire physique, naturelle et politique de Madagascar. 

 Vol. 88. T. I, Atlas I, Ire partie. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Gray, Asa. Botanical contributions, March 4, 1887, I, II, and III. 8vo 7. 



The Author. 



Greene, Edward Lee. Studies in the botany of California and parts adjacent, 



VI. 8vo T. 1887. 



Pittonia. A series of botanical papers, I. 1. 1887. 8vo T. The Author. 



Gregorio, Antonio de. Nota intorno ad alcuni fossili di Asiago. 8vo T. Pisa, 



1886. 



Nota intorno ad alcune conchiglie Mediterranee viventi e fossili. 8vo T. 



1886. 

 Intorno a un deposito di roditori e di carnivori suUa velte di Monte Pellegrino. 

 8vo T. Pisa, 1886. The Author, 



Gregory, Emily L. Comparative anatomy of the filz-like hair-covering of leaf- 

 organs. Inaug. Dissert. 8vo T. Zurich, 1886. The Author. 

 Groth, P. Grundriss der Edelsteinkunde. 8vo. Leipzig, 1887. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Grove, J. H. Biography of Andrew Nebinger, M. D. May 11, 1887. 12mo T. 



Robert Nebinger. 



Giimbel, Dr. K. Wilhelm von. Geologic von Bayern, ler Th. Grundziige der 



Geologic, 3e and 4e Lief. 8vo. 1886. I. V. Williamson Fund. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 443 



Giinther, Alb. . Guide to the galleries of reptiles and fishes in the Department of 

 Zoology of the British Museum (Natural History). 8vo T. London, 

 1887. The Trustees. 



Haas, Hippolyt J. Die Leitfossilien. Svo. Leipzig, 1887. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Hanstein, Johannes v. Das Protoplasma als Trager der pflanzlichen und thieris- 

 chen Lebensverrichtungen. 2e Ausg. Svo. Heidelberg, 1887. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Hazslinszky, Frigyes. A Magyar Birodalom Moh-Floraja. 8vo. Budapest, 



1885. Royal Hungarian Society of Natural History. 



Hebert, Edm. Phyllades de Saint-Lo et conglomerat pourpres dans le nord- 



ouest de la France. 1887. 8vo T. The Author. 



Hedwig, Joanne. Filicum genera et species recentiori methodo accommodatae 



analytice descriptK. Folio, Lipsise 1799. John H. Redfield. 



Hegyfoky, Kabos. Die meteurologischen Verhaltnisse des Monats Mai in Ungarn. 



4to T. Budapest, 1886. Royal Hungarian Society of Natural History. 



Hehn, Victor. Kulturpflanzen und Hausthiere in ihrem Ubergang aus Asien 



nach Griechenland und Italien sowie in das iibrige Europe. Svo. 6e, 



Aufl. Berlin, 1887. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Heilprin, Angelo. The geographical and geological distribution of animals. 



8vo. New York, 1887. 



Explorations on the west coast of Florida and in the Okeechobee Wilderness. 



Svo. Philadelphia, 1886. • The Author. 



Heller, Agost. A. K. M. Termeszettudomanyi Taisulat Konyveinek Cziinjegyzeke. 



II, Fiizet. Svo T. Budapest, 1886. 



Royal Hungarian Society of Natural History. 

 Helmhcltz, H. von. Handbuch der physiologischen Optik. 2e, Aufl. L. 4. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Henry, Joseph, Scientific writings of. 2 vols. Svo. Washington, 1886. 



Smitiisonian Institution. 



Herman, Otto. Ungarische Landesausstellung. Gruppe IV, Urgeschichte Spuren 



in den gerathen der ungarischen volksthiimlichen Fischerei. 12mo T. 



Budapest, 1885. The Author. 



Hertwig, Oscar and Richard. Untersuchungen zur Morphologie und Physiologic 



der Zelle. Heft 5. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Heude, P. Problema Philippinense. Fol T. Zi-ka Wei, 1887. 



The Author through Dr. Leidy. 

 Hicks, Henry. Further proofs of the Pre-Cambrian age of certain granitoid, 

 felsitic and other rocks in N. W. Pembrokediire. Svo T. Aug. 1886. 



The Author. 



Higgins, James. Second, third and fourth reports to the House of Delegates of 



Maryland. Svo. Annapolis and Baltimore, 1852-54. In Exchange. 



Hinde, George Jennings. On the Genus Hindia, Duncan, and the name of its 



typical species. Svo T. Jan. 1887. 



On the organic origin of chert in the carboniferous limestone series of Ireland. 



Oct. 1887. 8vo T. The Author. 



Hitchcock, C. H. Geological map of the United States, 1886. The Author. 



Hoffman. Hermann. Icones analytics fungorum, H. 2 and 3. 



1. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Hooker,^Jos. D., Framed photograph of. John H. Redfield. 



Hooker, William Jackson. A century of ferns. 2 vols. Svo. London, 1854- 

 1831. 

 Genera filicum. Svo. London, 1842. 



Filices exoticae. 4to. London, 1859. John H. Redfield. 



Home, A. R. Easy experiments for schools and families with homemade 



apparatus. 12mo T. Chicago, 1886. The Author. 



Hornizky, K. S. Record of the Russian and of some foreign names of plants. 



Kharkow, 1886. Svo T. 




444 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Notes on the use in popular life of some wild-growing and cultivated plants 

 of the Ukrianic (Southern Russian) Flora. Kharkow, 1887. 8vg T. 



The Author. 



Hovelacque, Abel and Georges Herve. Bibl. Anth. Precis d'anthropologie. 



8vo. Paris, 1887. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Hubbard, Lucius L. Beitrnge zur Kenntniss der Noseanfiihrenden Auswlirflinge 



des Laacher Sees. Inaug. Dissert. 8vo T. Wein, 1887. The Author, 



Hudson, C. T. and P. H. Gosse. The Rotifera; or wheel animalcules, Pt. 



VI. 1886. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Hutton, F. W. On the geology of the Trelissick or Broken River Basin, Selwyn 



County. June 3,^1 886. 8vo T. 



The eruption of Mount Tarawera. May, 1887. 8vo T. 



Repnrt on the Tarawera Volcanic District. 8vo T. The Author. 



India, Geological Survey of. Memoirs, 4to. Palseontologia Indica. Ser. VII 



and XIV. Vol. 1, Title; Ser. X, Vol. IV, Pt. 2. Ser. XII, Vol. IV, Pt. 



2; Ser. XIII, 1, 6. Records, XIX, 4; XX, 1 and 2. The Survey. 



Inkey, Bela von. Magyag und seine Erzlagerstatten im Auftrage der K. U. 



naturwissenschaftlichen Gesellschaft. 4to T. Budapest, 1885. 



Royal Hungarian Society of Natural Science. 



Internationale Polarforschung, 1882, 1883. Die osterreichische Polarstation Jan 



Mayen ausgeriisfet durch S. E. Graf Hannas Wilczek geleitet vom H. K. 



Corvetten Capitan Emil Edlen von Wohlgemuth. I; 11, 1, 2; III. 4to. 



Wien. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



James, U. P. and J. F. James. On the monticuliporoid corals of the Cincinnati 



Group. July 5, 1887. 8vo T. The Authors. 



Janke, Heinreich Die willkurliche Hervorbringung des Geschlechts bei Mensch 



und Hausthieren. Svo. Berlin, 1887. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Jenkins, O. P. List of fishes collected in Vigo County in 1885 and 1886. 8vo 



T. The Author. 



Jousseaume, F. Molhisques nouveaux. 1887. 8vo T. 



Mollusques nouveaux de la Republique de I'Equateur. 1887. The Author. 



Just's Botanischer Jaliresbericht, XI, 2e Abth. 2 H. ; XII. le Abth. 1 H., 2e 



Abth. 1 H. ■ I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Kaulfuss, Georg. Frid. Enumeratio filicum quas in itinere circa terram legit 



CI. Adalbertus de Chamisso adjectis in omnia harum plantarum genera 



permultasque species non satis cognitas vel novas animadversionibus. 



12me, Lipsice, 1824. John H. Redfield. 



Keep, Josiah. West coast shells. 12me. San Francisco, 1887. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Kentucky, Geological Survey of; John R. Procter, Director. Report on the 

 geology of Elliott County. By A. R. Crandall. Also notes on the trap 

 dikes-Qf lilliott County, By A. R. Crandall and J. S. Diller. Svo T. 

 1886. 

 Shaler's report of progress. Ill, 1887. Six preliminary maps. 1886, 

 1887. The Survey. 



Kerz, Ferdinand. Ueber die Entstehung der Korper welche sich um die Sonne 

 bewegen. 8vo T. Leipzig, 1886. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Killebrew, J. B. First and second reports of the Bureau of Agriculture for the 

 State of Tennessee. Introduction to the resources of Tennessee. 8vo. 

 Nashville, 1874, In exchange. 



Kirchoff. Un&er Wissen von der Erde. 2er Bd., I Th. 1 and 2. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Knauer, Friedrich. Handworterbuch der Zoologie. 8vo. Stuttgart, 1887. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Kobelt, W. Das Verhaltniss der europaischen Land-molluskenfauna zur West- 



indisch-Centralamerikanischen. 1887. 8vo T. 



Suezcanal und Mittelmeerfauna. 1887. 8vo T. The Author. 



Prodrumus Faunae Molluscorum Testaceorum maria europaea inhabitantium. 



Ease. 1-3. Svo. Nurnberg, 1886. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 445 



Iconographie der schalentragenden europaischen Meeresconchylien, H. 4—7. 

 Cassel, 1883. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Die geographische Verbreitung der Heliceengruppe Macularia. 8vo T. 



The Author. 

 Koch, Ludwig. Die Entwicklungsgeschichte der Orobranchen. 8vo. Heidel- 

 berg, 1887. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Kokscharow, N. v. Materialen zur Mineralogie Russlands. IX, 18, 23. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Kunze, Gustav. Die Farrnkrauter in kolorirten Abbildungen nalurgetreu 



erlautert und beschrieben. 2 vols, in one, 4to. Leipzig, 1840-47. 



Analecta Pteridographica. Fol. Lipsix 1837. John H. Redfield. 



Kunze, Gustav and Johaini Carl Schmidt. Mykologische Heft, 2es. Heft. 8vo. 



Leipzig, 1823. Executors of Dr. Geo. Martin. 



Lacordaire, M. Th. Histoire naturelle des insectes. Genera des coleopt^res. 



T. 8me. Trictenotomides et Longicornes. 8vo. Paris, 1869. 



American Entomological Society. 



Laszlo Eduard D. Chemische und mechanische Analyse ungarlandischer Thone 



mit Riicksicht auf ihre induslrielle Verwendbarkeit. 8vo T. Budapest, 



1886. Royal Hungarian Society of Natural Science. 



Lawes, Sir John Bennett. Memoranda of the origin etc. of experiments at 



Rothamsted. June, 1887. Fol T. The Author. 



Lawrence, Geo. N. The rediscovery of Bachman's warbler, Helminthophila 



Bachmani And. in the United States. Jan. 1887. 8vo T. 



Descriptions of new species of birds of the families Sylviidae, Troglodytidse 



und Tyrannid_^. Miy9, 18S7. 8voT. 



Description of a new species of thrush from the Island of Grenada, West 



Indies. Feb. 28, 1S87. 8vo T. The Author. 



Lea, M. Carey. Papers on the photochemistryof the silver haloids. June and 



July 1887. 8vo T. The Author. 



Lee, Arthur BoUes. The microtomist's vade-mecum. 8vo. London, 1885. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Lesley, J. P. Second Geological Survey of Pennsylvania. Letter to the Governor, 



Dec. 31, 1874. 8vo T. In exchange. 



Lepsius, R. Handb. z. deutschen Landes und Vols. Geologic von Deutschland 



und den angrenzenden Gebieten. I, 1. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Letourneux, A. and J. B. Bourguignat. Expl. Scient. de la Tunisie. Prodrome 



de la malacologie terrestre et fluviatile de la Tunisie. Paris, 1887. 8vo 



T. The Authors. 



Leuckart, Rudof. Die Parasiten des Mensclien und die von ihnen herriihrenden 



Krankhelten. I, 3. 2e. Aufl. 8vo. Leipzig u. Heidtlberg, 1886. 



i I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Lewis, H. Carvill. The matrix of the diamond. Sept. 7, 1887. 8vo T. 



On some important extra-marine lakes in Central England, North America 



and elsewhere. Sept. 2, 1887. 8vo T. 

 The terminal moraines of the great glaciers of England. Sept. 2, 1887. 



8vo T. 

 On a diamantiferous peridotite, and the genesis of the diamond. Compara- 

 tive studies upon the glaciation of North America, Great Britain and 

 Ireland. 8vo T. 1887. 

 The alleged physical phenomena of spiritualism. 8vo T. The Author. 



Lewis, T. H. Snake and snake-like mounds in Minnesota, 1887. 8vo T. 

 Incised boulders in the Upper Minnesota Valley. 8vo T. 1887. 



The Author. 

 Light House Board, annual report, June 30, 1886. 8vo. Washington, 1886. 



Treasury Department. 

 Linden, J. Lindenia. Iconographie des orchid^es. I, II. Gand, 1885-87. 



Thomas Meehan. 



Lockwood, Samuel. Raising diatoms in the laboratory. 8vo T. New York, 



1886. The Author. 




446 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Lombard. J. S. Experimental researches on the regional temperature of the head 

 under conditions of rest, intellectual activity and emotion. 8vo. London, 

 1879. 

 Experimental researches on the temperature of the head. 8vo. London, 

 1881. The Author. 



Lowe, E. J. Ferns : British and exotic. Eight volumes. Svo. London, 1856- 

 1864. 

 A Natural History of new and rare ferns. Svo. London, 1864. 



John H. Redfield. 

 Lischke, C. E. Japanische Meeres-Conchylien 3er Th. 4to, Cassel, 1874. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Ludwig Ferdinand, K. Prinz von Bayern. Zur Anatomic der Zunge. 4to, 



Miichen 1884. I. V. Williamson Fund, 



Lydekker, Richard. Catalogue of the remains of Siwalik vertebrata contained in 



the Geological Department of the Indian Museum, Calcutta. Part I, 



mammalia; Part II, aves, reptilia and pisces. Svo. Calcutta 1886-86. 



Catalogue of the remains of pleistocene and prehistoric vertebrata contained 



in the Geological Department of the Indian Museum, Calcutta. 8vo T. 



1886. The Author. 



Catalogue of the fossil mammalia in the British Museum (Natural History). 



Part IV. 8vo. London, 1886. The Trustees. 



McCook, Henry C. Modifications of habits in ants through fear of enemies. 



8vo T. 1887. The Author. 



McCreath, Andrew S. and E. V. d'lnvilliers. The new River-Cripple Creek 



mineral region of Virginia. 8vo. Harrisburg, 1887. 



E. V. d'lnvilliers. 

 McLoughlin, J. W., M. D. Researches into the etiology of the dengue. 8vo T. 

 Chicago, 1886. 



The Author. 



Maine Board of Agriculture. Sixth and seventh annual report of the Secretary. 



1861 and 1862. 8vo. Augusta, 1861-62. In exchange. 



Maisch, j. M. Gotthief Heinrich Ernst Muhlenberg als Botaniker. 8vo T. 



1886. The Author. 



Man, T. G. De. Anatomische Untersuchui.gen iiber freilebende Nordsee-Nemato- 



" den. Fol. Leipzig, 1886. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Marsh, Othniel Charles. Dinocerata, a monograph of an extinct order of gigantic 



mammals. (Monogr. U. S. Geol. Surv. Vol. X.) 4to. Wasliington, 1886. 



Department of the Interior. 



American Jurassic mammals. April, 1887. 8vo T. The Author. 



Martin George. Archetypa fungorum manu propria pinxit Georgius Martin M.D. 



1882-83, 1883-86. 2 vols. 4tQ. Executors of Dr. Geo. Martin. 



Martini & Chemnitz. Systematisches Conchylien Cabinet. L. 341-352. 



Wilson Fund. 

 Martius, C. F. P. de, & A. G. Eichler. Flora Brasiliensis enumeratio plantarum 

 in Brasilia hactenus detectarum. Ease. 1 , 6, 12, 15-24, 27-96. Fol. 1840 

 Mar. 1886. 



The Department of Agriculture, Commerce and Public Works, Brazil. 

 Maverick National Bank manual. July 1, 1887. 12mo. Boston, 1887. 



The Directors. 

 Medley, Geo. W. Fair trade unmasked. 12mo T. Cobden Club. 



Meinert, Fr. Entomoiogiske Medelelser, I, 1. 1887. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Menke, Carolo Theod. Synopsis methodica molluscorum, etc. Editio altera. 

 8vo. Pyrmonti, 1830. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Merriam, C. H. The mammals of the Adirondack Region. 8vo. New York, 

 1886. I- ^^- Williamson Fund. 



Mettenius, Georg. Filices Horti Botanici Lipsiensis. Fol. Leipzig, 1856. 



John H. Redfield. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 447 



Meusel, Eduard. Die Quellkraft der Rhodanate und die Quellung als Ursache 

 fermentartiger Realctionen. 8vo T. Gera, 1886. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Mexican Border Commission. Reports of the Committee of Investigation sent in 

 1873 by the Mexican government to the frontier of Texas. 8vo. New 

 York, 1875. The Mexican Goverment. 



Meyer, Otto. ■ Beitrag zur Kenntnis der Fauna des Alttertiars von Mississippi und 

 Alabama, 1887. 8vo T. The Author. 



Microscopical Society of West Chester, Penna. Report on the Act of Assembly 

 of said State awarding a premium for the destruction of hawks, owls, minks, 

 weasels etc. enacted June 23, 1885. 8vo T. West Chester, 1887. 



B. H. Warren. 



Mihalkovics, Geza. A gerinczes allotok kivalasztd es ivarszerveinek fejl6d6se. 

 8vo. Budapest, 1885. Hungarian Academy of Science. 



Ministry of Finance, France. Diamonds, pearls and precious stones taken from the 

 collection known as the crown jev^els. 4to T. 1887. Tiffany & Co. 



Minnesota. The Geological and Natural History Survey of. 13th and 14th 



■ Annual Reports 1884, 1885. N. H. Winchell, State Geologist. 2vols. 



8vo. St. Paul, 1885, 1886. The Survey. 



Moder, Jos. Denkschrift iiber die zehntheilige Uhr fiir Jahr und Tag. 4to T. 

 Wiesbaden, 1887. The Author. 



Montague, F. C. Technical education. 12mo T. Cobden Club. 



Monterosato. Marchese T. Alleiy di. Testacei nuovi dei Marie di Sicilia. 8voT. 

 Palermo, 1869. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Moore, Thomas. Index Filicum. 12mo. London, 1857. John H. Redfield. 



Mueller, Ferd. von. Descriptions and illustrations of the myoporinous plants of 

 Australia. II, Lithngrams. 4to. Melbourne, 1886. Thomas Meehan. 



Museum d'Histoire Naturelle des Pays-Bas, IX. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Muspratt, Sheridan. Chemistry, theoretical, practical aud analytical as applied 

 and relating to the arts and manufactures. Vol. I and Vol. 2 as tar as part 

 52. Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger. 



Muybridge, Eadweard. Animal locomotion. An electrophotographic investigation 

 of consecutive phases of animal movements. 1872—1885. Set of one hun- 

 dred and three plates. Folio. 1887. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Animal Locomotion. Prospectus and catalogue of plates. 12mo T. Phila- 

 delphia, 1887. The Author. 



Nabias, B. Les Galles et leur habitants. These. 8vo. Paris, 1 886. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Naglei, C. v. and A. Peter. Die Hieracien Mittel-Europas. II Bd. 2 H. 8vo. 

 Munchen, 1886. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Newberry, [. S. Food and fibre plants of the North American Indians. 8vo T. 



New York, 1887. The Author. 



The ancient civilizations of America; their origin and antiquity. 8vo T. 



New York, 1885. the Author. 



New Jersey. Geological Survey of. Atlas, sheets 5, 8, 10, 11,12. 14, 15. 



Geo. H. Cook. 



New York Free Circulating Library. 7th annual report, 1886. 8vo T. 



Tiie Author. 



New Zealand. New Zealand Industrial Exhibition 1885. Wellington. The 

 Official Record. 8vo. 1886. The Director. 



Noll, Henry R. The botanical class-book and flora of Pennsylvania. 12mo. 

 Levvisburg, 1852. Isaac Burk. 



Northrop, J. I. Contributions from the herbarium of Columbia College, No. 3. 

 Plant notes from Termiscouata County, Canada. 8vo T. No 1887. 



The Author. 



Norway. Norwegische Commission der europreischen Gradmessung. (leodat- 

 ische Arbeiten, H. V. Vandstandsobservationer H. IV. The Commission. 



Norwegian North-Atlai.tic Expedition, 1876—1878. XV-XVIII, Zoology. 



The Norwegian Government. 




448 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Nova Scotia. Report of the Department of Mines for the year 1S86. 8vo. 

 Halifax, 1887. The Director. 



Nuttall, Thos., Framed photograph of. John H. Redfield. 



Nuttall, Zelia. Preliminary note of an analysis of the Mexican codices and graven 

 inscriptions. Aug. 1886. 8vo T. The Author. 



Nyman, C. F. Sylloge florae Europgese. Svo. Oerebroae, 1854-1855. 



John H. Redfield. 

 Ochsenius, Carl. Uber das Alter einiger Theile der siidamericanischen Anden. 

 Svo T. Marburg 1886. The Author. 



Orgeas J. La pathologie des races humaines et le probleme de la colonisation. 

 8vo. Paris, 1886. I- V. Williamson Fund. 



Osborn, Henry F. The Upper Triassic mammals, Dromatherium and Microcon- 

 odon. Aprd, 1887. 8vo T. 

 On the structure aud classification of the Mesozoic mammalia, June 21, 1887. 

 Svo T. The Author. 



Owen, D. D. Report of a geological reconnoissance of the State of Indiana, 

 1837. Part First. 8vo. Indianapolis, 1859. In Exchange. 



Packard, A. S. On the carboniferous xiphosurous fauna of North America. 

 4loT. 

 On the Anthracaridse, a family of Carboniferous macrurous decapod Crus- 

 tacea. 4to T. 

 On the Gampsonychidss. 4to T. 



On the Syncarida. 4to T. The Author. 



Paetel, Fr. Catalog der Conchylien Sammlung. le L. Svo. Berlin, 1887. 



The Author. 

 Parlatore, Filippo. Flora Italiana, continuata da Teodoro Caruel. VI, 1, 2, 3; 

 VII, 1. 

 Les collections botaniques du Musee Royale de physique et d'histoire natur- 



elle de Florence au printemps de 1874. Svo. Florence, 1874. 

 Viaggio per le parti settentrionale de Europa fatto nell' anno 1851. I. Svo 

 Firenze, 1854. T. Carue . 



Palaeontographica. XXX, 4-6; XXXII, 5, 6; XXXIV, 1. Wilson Fund. 



Paleontologie Francaise. Ire Ser. An. Inv. L. 10. Terrains Tertiaires, Eocene 

 Echinides I, f. 16-23, p. 73-108- Terrain Juras. L. 82, 83, 84. Crinoides 

 f. 10-12, p. 159-170. Ter. Cretaces, L. 23. Wilson Fund. 



Peale, A. C. Department of the Interior. U. S. Geol. Surv. Mineral waters. 

 1885. Svo T. Washington 1886. The Author. 



Peale, A. C. Wm. H. Seaman M. D., and C. H. White M. D. Report of com- 

 mittee on methods of stating water-analyses. 8vo T. Washington, 1S87. 



A. C. Peale. 

 Pennsylvania. Annual report of the Geological Survey for 1886. 8vo. Harris- 

 burg, 1887. Charles M. Betts. 

 Report of the Secretary of Internal Affairs, containing reports of the surveys 

 and re-surveys of the boundary lines of the Commonwealth. 2vols. text 

 and maps. Svo. Harrishurg 1887. Charles M. Betts. 

 State Board of Health and Vital Statistics. First annual report, Dec. 7. 1885. 

 Svo. Harrisburg, 1886. The Board. 

 P6res de la Compagnie de Jesus. Memoires concernant I'histoire naturelle de 

 I'Empire Chinois. II. 1. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Pergens, Ed. et A. Meunier. La faune des Bryozoaires Garumniens de Faxe. 

 Bjuxelles, 1886. Svo. T. The Author. 

 Pfitzer, E. Entwurf einer natiirlichen Anordnung der Orchideen. 8vo T. 

 Heidelberg, 1887. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Portugal. Commission des travaux geologiques du Portugal. Recueil d'etudes 

 paleontologiques sur la faune cretacique du Portugal. I, pp. 1-40. II, 

 ler, Fasc. Geological Survey of Portugal. 

 Potts, Edw. Fresh-water sponges. A monograph. Svo. Philadelphia, 1887. 



The Author, 




1887.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 449 



Pres], Carolo Bor. Tentamen pteridograpliioe. 8vo. Prague, 1836. 



John H. Redfield. 



Procter. John R. Kentucky Geological Survey. Preliminary maps, by J. B. Hoeing, 



1886, 1887. Six maps. The Survey. 



Putnam, F. W. Conventionalism in ancient American art. Salem 1887. 8vo T. 



Serpent Mound Park, Cincinnati. 1887. (Slip.) The Author. 



Quain, Jones.' Elements of anatomy. 9th edition, li Vols. 8vo. London, 1882, 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Quatrefages, A. de. Les pygmees. 12mo, Paris, 1887. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Quenstedt, F. A. Die Ammoniten des schwabischen Jura. Heft 13-16. Text 



and Atlas. 1. V. Williamson Fund. 



Rabenhorst, Dr. L. Beitray;e zur naheren Kenntniss und Verbreitung der Algen. 



H. II. Leipzig, 18H5. 



Kryptogamen Flora von Deutschland, Oesferreich und der Schvveiz. I, 2e. 



Abth. 25, 26, 28 L and Register; III, 9 an<l 10 L.; IV, .^-7 L. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Rath, G. vom. Einige geologische Wahrnehmungen in Mexiko. Okt. 1886. 

 8vo T. Bonn. 1887. 

 Einige geologische Wahrnehmungen in Griechenland, 1887. 8vo T. 

 Als Willkommgruss zur Versamnilung der deutschen geologischen Gesell- 

 schaft in Bonn. Einige mineralogische und geologische Mittheilungen. 

 Svo T. 

 Worte der Erinnerung an Dr. Martin Websky, 1886. Svo T. 

 Friedrich Pfaff, 1887. 8vo T. 



Uber kiinstliche Silberkrystalle, 8vo T. 1887, The Author. 



Reichenbach, H. G. L. Flora Saxonica. Die Flora von Sachsen,ein botanisches 



Excursionsbuch. 8vo. Dresden und Leipzig, 1842. Thomas Meehan. 



Renevier, E. Rapport sur la marche du Musee geologique Vaudois en 1886. 



Lausaune, Mai, 1887. Svo 'J'. The Author. 



Retzius, Gustaf. Das Gehororgan der Wirbelthiere, morphologisch-hislologische 



Studien, I, II. 2 vols. fol. Stockholm, 1881-1884. 



1. V. Williamson Fund. 



Richon, C. and E. Roze. Atlas des champignons comestibles et veneneux. 



Fasc. 2-7. Fol. Paris. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Ridgway, R. A nomenclature of color for naturalises and compendium of useful 



knowledge for ornithologists. Svo. B(.ston, 1886. 



A manual of North American birds. Svo. Philada. 1887. 



I. V. William-on Fund. 

 Riley, C. V. U. S. Department of Agriculture, Division of Entomology, Bulletin, 

 No. 10. Our shade trees and their insect defoliators. 8vo T. Wash- 

 ington, 1887. The De|)artment. 

 Rodrigues, 1. Barboza. O Tamakoare especies novas da ordem das Ternstroe- 

 miaceas 4io T. Manaos, 1887. The Author. 

 Rossmassler's Iconographie der europaischen land und sussvvasser Mollusken 

 (Kobelt). N. F. II, .5. 6; III, 1, 2. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Rothrock, J. T. Biographical memoir of the late Eli K. Price. Nov. 19. 1886. 

 Svo T. The Author. 

 Ruiz, H. and J. Pavon. Florae Peruvianae et Chilensis prodromus. Fol. Mad- 

 rid, 1794. Thomas Meehan. 

 Russia. Comile Geologique Russe. Bulletin, 1886, Nos. 7-11. 1887, Nos. 

 l-,5. The Survey. 

 Ryder, John A. On the origin of heterocercy and the evolution of the fin and 

 fin-rays of fishes. Svo T. Washington, 1S86. 

 Automatic microtome. Am. Nat. March 1887. Svo T. The Author. 

 Saccardo, P. A. Fungi Italici autographice delineali. I, Tab. 1-1120; II, Tab. 

 1121-1500. 2 vols, 4to. Patavii 1877-1886. 

 Michelia, Commentarium mycologicum fungos in primis Iialicos illustrans. 



I, II, Patavii 1879, JSS2. Executors of Dr. Geo. Martin. 

 Sylloge fungorum. V. Agaricineae, Additamenta ad Vol. I-IV. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 




450 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Sandberger, F. v. Bemerkungen iiber einige Heliceen im Bernstein der preussis- 



chen Kiiste. 8vo T. Danzig. The Author. 



Sanders, Christ. B. The physical nature of the earth and a new philosophy of 



hght. 8vo T. Houston, 1887. The Author. 



Sarasin, P. and F. Ergebnisse naturvvissenschaftlicher Forschungen auf Ceylon 



in den Jahren, 1884-1886. I, 1 ; II, 1. Fol. Wiesbaden 1887. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Saussure,»Henri de. Spicilegia entomologica Genavensis. 2. Tribu des Para- 



phagiens. 4to T. Geneve 1887. The Author, 1887. 



Memoires pour servir a I'histoire naturelle du Mexique des Antilles et des 



Etats Unis. lre,'2e and 3e. Livr. V Memoire. T. 2, le Partie. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Melanges orthopterologique'^. ler, 2 and 6me, Fasc. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Say, Thomas. Portrait in oil of, by C. W. Peale. Mrs. J. E. Mitchell. 



Schidte, J. C. Zoologia Danica. 5 H. 1887. 1. V. Williamson Fund. 



Schkuhr, Christian. Vier und zwanzigste Klasse des linneischen Pflanzensystems 



oder kryptogamische Gewachse. 4to, Wittenberg, 1809- Text and Plates. 



John H. Redfield. 



Schlechtendal, D. F. L. de. Adumbratio filicum in Promontorio Bonae Spei 



provenientium (1825-1832). 4to. John H. Redfield. 



Schomburgh, R. Report on the progress and condition of the Botanic Garden 



(Souih Australia) during the year 188ti. Fol. T. The Author. 



Schmidt, Adolf. Atlas der Diatomaceen-Kunde. H. 27, 28. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Schneider, Anton. Zoologische Beitrage. II, 1. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Schvvalbe, G. Lehrbuch der Anatomie der Sinnesovgane. 8vo. Erlangen, 1887. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Schwedoff, Th. Les mouvements cycloniques. 8vo T. Paris, 1887. 



The Author. 



Scribner, F. L. Dep. of Agric. An. Report ]886. Report of the Mycologist. 



8voT. 1887. ' The Author. 



Semper, C. Reisen im Archipel der Philippinen. Wissenschaftlichen Result. IV. 



2; V, 1 ; 2er Th. 2er Bd. Suppl. H. IV, 2e H. 1. V. Williamson Fund, 



Seynes, T. de. Recherches }?our servir a I'histoire naturelle des vegelaux inferieurs, 



HI. 1886. I- V. Williamson Fund. 



Shaler, N. S. Geological Survey of Kentucky. Report of Progress III, n. s. 



\S71. The Survey 



Siblhorp, John. Flora Graeca; sive plantarum rariorum historia quas in Provin- 



ciis aut Insulis Grfficise legit. Ten volumes, folio. London, 1806-1840. 



By subscription. 



Siemachko, Julien de. Catalogue de la collection de meteorites de. Jan. 1886. 



Paris. 8vo T. The Author. 



Smith, Eugene Allen. Geological Survey of Alabama. On the Warrior Coal 



Field, by Henry McCafley, A. M. 8vo. Montgomery, Alabama. 1886. 



Tlie State Geologist. 

 Solms-Laubach, H. Grafen zu. Eink-itung in die Palaophytologie vom botanischen 

 Standpunkt aus. 8vo. Leipzig, 1887. I. V. WilUamson Fund. 



South African Museum, Cape of Good Hope. Report of the Trustees. 1886. 



The Trustees. 



Sowerby, G. B. Thesaurus Gmchyliorum. XI, IV. Wilson Fund. 



Stadler, S. Beitrage zur Kenntniss drr Nectarien und Biologic der Bliilhen. 8vo. 



Berlin, 1886. I- V. Williamson Fund. 



Stephenson, F. B.. M. D. A summary of Holsti's views of arteriocapillary 



Sclerosis. Ni.v.20, 1886. 8vo, f. The Author. 



Stevenson, John. Hymenomvcetes Britannici. British fungi (Hymenomycetes). 



Vols. 1 and 2. 8vo. Edinburgh, 1887. I. V. Williamson P\nid. 



Stossich, M. I distomi dei pesci marini e d'acqua dolce. 1886. 8vo T. 



The Author. 




1887.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 451 



Surgeon-General's Office, U. S. Army. Index-catalogue of the library. Vol. VIII. 



1887. War Department. 



Suringar. Musee botanique de Leide. I, 4 and 5; II pp. i-viii, 1-16, Pis 7-9. 



1. V. Willun ^c Fund. 

 Sutro, Theodore. The Sutro Tunnel Company. 12 mo. New York, 1887. 



The Author. 

 Swartz, Olai. ■ Synopsis filicum. 12mo. Kiliae 1806. John H. Redfield. 



Sydow, P. Die Flechten Deutschlands. 8vo. Berlin 1887. , 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Szabo, Jozsef. Geologia kivlao tekintettel a Petrografiara Vulkanossagra es hidro- 

 grafiara. 8vo. Budapest, 1883. Angelo Heiprin. 



Taschenberg, O. Bibliotheca zoologica. II, 1-8. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Taylor, Tbos. Reply to "Science." Relating to the crystals of butter, animal 

 fats and oleomargarine. Nov. 19, 1886. 8vo T. ' The Author. 



Teall, J. J. Harris. British petrography. Parts 9 and 10. Birmingham. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Thaxter, Roland. On certain cultures of gymnosporangium, with notes on their 



roesteli^. Dec. 8, 1886. 8vo T. The Author. 



Thompson, Edw. H. ArchKological researches in Yucatan. 8vo T. Worcester. 



1886. The Author. 

 Thomson, Sir C. Wyville. Report of the scientific results of the voyage of 



H. M. S. Challenger during the years 1873-1876. Zoology XX ; XXI, 



text and plates; XXII. H. B. M. Government. 



There, J. Ire, 2me and 3me communication sur une nouelle force ? Dax, 



1887. Svo T. The Author. 

 Torrey, John, Card portrait of. Through the Botanical Section. 

 Towne, Edward C. Electricity and life. Cambridge, 1887. 8vo T. 



The Author. 

 Trask, Dr. John B. Report on the geology of the Coast Mountains and part of 

 the Sierra Nevada. 1854. 8vo. T. In Exchange. 



Tryon, Geo. W. Jr. Manual of conchology, structural and systematic. Parts 

 33-35. Second series, Pulmonata, Parts 9-II. The Author. 



Tuckerman, Frederick. The tongue and gustatory organs of Mephitis mephitica. 

 8vo T. Aug. 1887. The Author. 



Tyson, Philip T. Geology and industrial resources of California. 8vo. Balti- 

 more, I85I. I" Exchange. 

 Uhlworm, Oscar and F. H. Haenlein. Bibliotheca botanica. H. 2-8. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 United States Bureau of Ethnology. Annual report, 1882-83. 



The Director. 



Commission of Fish and Fisheries. Parts XII and XIII. Reports for 



1884 and 1885. The Commission. 



Commissioner of Patents. Reports for the years 1849-50, 1850-51, 1851-52, 



1852-53, 1859, 1861. Agriculture. 8vo. W^ashington 1850-1862. 



In Exchange. 

 Department of Agriculture. Reports of Commissioner, 1875 and 1876. 8vo. 

 Washington, 1877. Botanical Division. Bulletin, Nos. 3 and 11. Division 

 of Entomology, Bulletin, Nos. 10, 13-16 inclusive. Dr. C. V. Riley. 



The Department. 

 Department of the Interior. Census Office. Tenth census of the United 

 States. Vol. XV, XVI, XVIII. 4to. Washington 1886. 



Department of the Interior. 



Commissioner of Education. Report for the year 1884-1885. Circulars of 



information, 1886, No. 2. The Department. 



Commissioner of Labor's second annual report, 1886. Convict labor. 8vo. 



Washington, 1887. The Department. 



U. S. Geological Survey, Monograph. Vols. X and XI. Sixth annual 



report, 1884-85. Mineral resources of the United States. 1885. Bulletin 



Nos. 30-39 mc. The Department. 




452 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Department of State. Reports from the Consuls. Nos. 75-85 and report of 

 forestry in Europe. The Department. 



Treasury Department. Bureau of Statistics, quarterly report. Nos. 1-4, 

 188(3-87. Annual report for the year ending June 30, 1886, No. 9. 



The Department, 

 Coast and Geodetic Survey, report of the superintendent showing the progress 

 of the work during the fiscal year ending with June 1885. 4to. Washing- 

 ton, 1886. 

 Commissioner of Navigation, report of, to the Secretary of the Treasury. 

 1886. 8vo. The Department. 



War Department. Annual report of the Chief of Ordnance, June 30, 1886. 

 8vo. Washington, 1886. The Department. 



Vasey, George. Dep. of Agriculture. Report of the Botanist for 1886. 8vo T. 

 Washington, 1887. The Author. 



Vejdovsky, Franz. System und Morphologie der Oligochaeten. Fol. Prag, 

 1884. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Ventenat, E. P. Jardin de la Malmaison. Livr's le.-16e. Folio. Paris, 1803, 

 1804. _ Thomas Meehan. 



Vogt, Carl and Emile Young. Traite d'anatomie comparee pratique. 8e.-10e. 

 L. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Volkens, George. Die Flora der ?sgyptisch-orabischen Wiiste auf Grundlage 

 anatomisch-physiologischer Forschungen. 4to. Berlin. 1887. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Wagner, Franz von. Das Nervensystem von Myzostoma (F. S. Leuckart). 8vo 

 T. Graz. 1886. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Watson, Sereno, Card portrait of. Through the Botanical Section. 



Contributions to American botany, XIV. The Author. 



Webb, Philip Barker. Iter Hispaniense or a synopsis of plants collected in the 

 soutiicrn provinces of Spain and Portugal. 8vo T. Paris, 1838. 



T. Caruel. 



Weber, Max. Studien uber Saugethiere. 8vo. Jena, 1886. 



I. V. Williamson Fund, 



Weihe A und Ch. G. Nees von Esenbeck. Die deutschen Brombeerstrauche, 

 hescreiben und dargestellt. Folio. Bonnae, 1822. Thomas Meehan. 



Wells, John Grant. A Catalogue of the birds of Grenada, West Indies, with ob- 

 servations thereon. 1887. 8vo T. The Author. 



Westerlund, Carl Agardh. Fauna der in palaarctischen Region lebeiulen Binnen- 

 conchylien. Ill, VI, Svo. Lund, 1886. I. V. Williamson Fund, 



Wharton, Francis. A digest of the international law of the United States, 

 3 Vols. 8vo. Washington, 1886. The Author, 



Whiteaves, J. F. On some marine invertebrata dredged or otherwise collected by 

 Dr. G. M. Dawson in 1885, on the coast of British Columbia. 4to. T, 

 Montreal, 1887. The Author. 



Whitman, Charles O. Methods of research in microscopical anatomy and em- 

 bryology. 8vo. Boston. 1885. I. V. Williamson Fund, 



Whitney, J. D. Letter of the State Geologist (California) relative to progress, 

 186H-7. Svo T. Sacramento, 1867. In Exchange, 



Widhalm, J. Die fossilen Vogel-Knochen der Odessar-Steppen-Kalt-Steinbriiche 

 an der neuen Slobvdka bei Odessa. (Beilage z. X Bd. Schrift. d. neurus, 

 Gesell. der Naturf. zu Odessa). 1886. 4toT. The Society, 



Wiedersheim, R. Der Bau des Menschen als Zeugniss fiir seine Vergangenheit, 

 Svo. Freiburg i.B., 1887. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Wigand, Albert. Botanisches Heft, 2es. H. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Wight, Robert. Illustrations of Indian botany. 2 vols. 4to. Madras, 1840. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Wolle, Rev. Francis. Fresh-water algte of the United States. 2 vols. 8vo. 

 Bethlehem, 1S87. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Yale University, Catalogue 1886-87. The University. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 453 



Zetetic Society. Chart and compass, sextant and sun dial etc. ? 8vo. London, 

 n. d. The Society. 



Zoologisches Station von Neapel. Fauna und Flora des Golfes von Neapel. 

 Monofrr. XIV. I- V. Williamson Fund. 



Zuckerkandl, E. Das Periphere Geruchsorgan der Saugethiere. 8vu. Stuttgart, 

 1887. I- V. Williamson Fund. 



Journals and Periodicals. 



Albany. Albany Institute. Transactions XI. The Society. 



New York State Library. (STth, G8th and 69tli reports. The Trustees. 



New York State Museum of Natural History. o2nd, 38th and 39th aunnal 



reports. The Trustees. 



Regents of the Uuiversity of the State of New York. 9th annual report and 



Historical Record. The Trustees. 



Amiens. Societe Linneenne du Nord de la France. Bulletin, VII, 139-VIIL 174. 



Memoircs, VI. The Society. 



Amsterdam. K. Akademie van Wettenschappen. Jaarboek, 1885. Verslagen en 



Mededeelingen, Afdeeling Natuurkunde, III, 2; Afdeeling Letterkunde, 



III, 3. Verhandehngen, XXV. The Society. 

 Angers. Societe d' Etudes scientifiques. Bulletin, XIV, Suppl; XV. The Society. 



Societe Nationale d' Agriculture, Sciences et Arts. Memoires, T. 28. 



The Society. 

 Anvers. Societe Royale de Geographie. Bulletin, XI, 4-XII, 1. The Society. 

 Auch. Societe Francaise de Botanique. Revue de Botanique, Nos. 49-59. 



The Society. 

 Auxerre. Societe des Sciences historiques et naturelles de I'Yonne. Bulletin, XL. 



The Society. 



Baltimore. American Chemical Journal, VIII, 6-IX, 5. The Editor. 



American Journal of Mathematics, IX, 1-X, 1. The Editor. 



American Journal of Psychology (Hall) I, 1. The Editor. 



Johns Hopkins University. Studies from the Biological Laboratory, III, 9; 



IV, 1, 2. Circulars Nos. 54-59. Annual report, 11th. The University. 

 Peabody Institute, 20th annual report. Tse Society. 



Basel. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Verhandlungen, VIII, 1. The Society. 

 Schweizerische palaontologische Gesellschaft. Abhandlungen, XIII. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Batavia. Natuurkundig Vereen in Nederlandsch Indie. Natuurkundig Tijdschrift 



voor Nederlandisch Indie, 8e Ser. VII, 1, 3, 4; VIII, 1. The Society. 



Bath. Postal Microscopical Society. Journal of Microscopy and Natural Science, 



IV, 21,22, 24? Tne Editor. 



Belfast. Natural History and Philosophical Society. Proceedings 1885-86. 



The Society. 



Naturalists' Field Club. Annual report, II, 6. The Society. 



Berkeley. University of California. Register, 1886-87. The Trustees. 



Berlin. K. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Abhandlungen, physikalisches, 1886. 



Sitzungsberichte, 1887, 1-LIII. The Society. 



Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte, XLI, 6; LII, I, 2, 5. The Editor. 



Botanischer Jahresbericht (Just) XI, 2 Abth. S H. ; XII, 1 Abth. •J.U.; 2 



Abth. 2 H. I. V. Williamson Fund, 



Botanischer Verein der Provinz Brandenburg. Verhandlungen X-XIII; 



XV-XXVII; XXVIII, 1868-1886. The Society. 



Entomologischer Verein. Deutsche entomologische Zeitschrift, XXX, 2; 



(Berliner) XXXI. 1. The Society. 



Deutscher Fischerei-Verein. Circular, 1886, No. 5-1887, No. 3. Mitthei- 



lungen 1886, No. 10-1887, No. 5. The Society. 



Gartenflora. 1886, 4, 8, 10-24. Thomas Meehan. 




454 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Deutsche geologische Gesellschaft. Zeitschrift XXXVIII, 3-XXXIX, 1. 

 Katalag der Bibliothek, April 1887. The Society. 



K. P. geologische Landesanstalt und Bergakademie. Jahrbuch, 1885. 



The Society. 

 Gesellschaft Naturforschender Freunde. Sitzungs-Bericht, 1886, No. 9-1887, 

 No. 8. The Society. 



Jahrbucher fiir wissenschaftliche Botanik. XVII, 4-XVII, 8. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Naturce Novitates. 1886, No. 23-1887. No. 21. The Publisher. 



Benn. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Mittheilungen 1143-1168. The Society. 

 Besancon. Academie des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts. 1885. The Society. 

 Birmingham Philosophical Society. Proceedings, V. 1. The Society. 



Bistritz. Gewerbeschule. Jahresbericht, 12er. The Director. 



Bologna. Accademia delle Scienze. Memorie. 4e Ser. VI. The Society. 



Bonn. Archiv f. d. gesammte Physiologic etc. (Pfliiger). 1, 1868-XLI, and In- 

 dex I-XXX. 

 Archiv fiir mikroskopische Anatomic, XXVIII, 3-XXX, 3. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Naturhistorischer Verein. Verhandlungen XLIII, 2. The Society. 



Bordeaux. Societe Linneenne. Actes, XXXIX. The Society. 



Boston. American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Proceedings XXII, 1 and 2. 



Memoirs XI, Part IV, No. 5. The Society. 



Journal of Morphology, I, 1. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Society of Natural History. Proceedings, XXIII, pp., 305-368. The Society. 



Braunschweig. Archiv fiir Anthropologic XVI, 4; XVII, 1, 2. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Naturwissenschaftliche Rundschau I, 51-11. 50. The Editor. 



Zeitschrift fiir wissenschaftliche Mikroscopie III, 3-IV, 2. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Bremen. Naturwissenschaftliche Verein. Abhandlungen IX, 4. The Society. 



Brescia. Ateneo. Commentari, 1886. The Society. 



Brooklyn. Entomologia Americana. II, 9-III, 7. The Editor. 



Library. Annual report, 29th. The Librarian. 



Briinn. K. K. mahrisch-schlesische Gesellschaft zur Beforderung des Ackerbaues, 



der Natur-und Landes-kunde. Mittheilungen, 1886. The Society. 



Naturforschender Verein. Verhandlungen XXIV, 1, 2. Bericht der meteor- 



ologischen Commission, 1884. The Society. 



Bruxelles. Academie Royale des Sciences, des Lettres et des Beaux Arts de 



Belgique. Memoires couronnes, 4to T. 47 and 48. Mem. Cour. 8vo T. 37, 



38, 39. Memoires, T. 46. Notices Biographique etc., 1886. Catalogoie 



des Livres de la Bibliotheque. Ire Partie; 2e Partie, Lettres, Sciences. 



Bulletin, 3e Ser., XI, 7-XIII, 10. Annuaire, 1887. The Society. 



Musee Royale d'Histoire Naturelle de Belgique. Bulletin IV, 4. The Society. 



Societe Royale de Botanique. Bulletin, XXV, 2. The Society. 



Societe Entomologique de Belgique. Annales, XXX, Compte-Rendu. Ser. 



Ill, 72-90. The Society. 



Societe Beige de Geographic. Bulletin, X, 2-XI, 4. The Society. 



Societe Malacologique. Annales XXI. Proems Verbaux, 8 Jan-3 Juil., 7 



Aout-4 Dec. 1887. The Society. 



Societe Beige de Microscopic. Bulletin XII, 11 ; XIII, 2-11. The Society. 



Budapest. Magyar Tudomanyos Akademia. Archaeologiai Ertesito, V, 3-5 ; VI. 



1, 2. Ertekezesek a mathematikai Tudomanyok Korebol, XI, 1(J-XII, 11. 



Ertekezesek a Termeszettudomanyok Koreb5l, XIV, 9; XV, 1, 3-18. 



Mathematikai es Termeszettudomanyi Kozlemenyek vonatkozolog a hazai 



Viszonyokra XX, 1, 8-5; XXI, 1. Mathem es Termesz. Ertesito, III, 



6-IV, 6. Mathem. u Naturw. Berichte aus Ungarn, III. The Society. 



Ungarisches National-Museum Termeszetrajzi, Fuzetek. X, 4; XI, 4. Vezetek, 



1877-1886. The Director. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 455 



Buenos Aires. Sociedad Cientifica Argentina. Anales JtXII, 4-XXIV, 1. 



Sociedad Geografica Argentina. Revista, No. 42-50^ The Society. 



Caen. Academic nationale des Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres. Memoires, 1886. 



The Society. 

 Calcutta. Asiatic Society of Bengal. Journal LV, Pts. 2, Nos. 3 and 4. Proceed- 

 ings, 188B Nos. 8 and 9; 1887, Nos. 1-3-5. The Society. 

 Cambridge. Appalachian Mountahi Chib. Appalachia IV, 4. Register, 1887. 



The Society. 

 Harvard University. Library Bulletin, Nos. 3G-38. Bibliographical Con- 

 tributions. 25. The University. 

 Museum of Comparative Zoology. Bulletin XIII, 1-5. Memoires XVI, 1, 

 2. Report 18S5-8B; 1886-87. The Director. 

 Peabody Museum of American Archaeology and Ethnology. 2()th Annual 

 report. The' Director. 

 Cambridge. England, University. Studies from the Morphological Labratory, II, 

 2; III, 1. The University. 

 Canada, Royal Society of. Proceedifigs and Transactions, IV. The Society. 

 Cap Rouge. Le Naturaliste Canadien, XVI, 7-XVII, 5. The Editor. 

 Cardiff. Cardiff Naturalists' ^ciety. Report and Transactions, XVIII. 



The Society. 

 Catauia. Accademia Gioenia di^cienze Naturali. Atti, 3a Ser. XIX. Addunanza 

 del 17 Ottob, 1887. The Society. 



Cassel. Malakozoologische Blatter, IX, 2; X, 1. I. V. Wilhamson Fund. 



Verein fiir Naturkunde. 32er and 33ef Bericht. The Society. 



Cedar Rapids. Iowa Agricultural College. Bulletin, Nov. 1886. The College. 

 Champaign. Illinois State Laboratory of Natural History. Bulletin, II, 6. 



The Director. 

 Charleston. Elliot Society of Science and Art. Proceedings, II, pp. 81-120. 



The Society. 



Chicago. Chicago Public Library. 15th Annual report. The Librarian. 



the Open Court. I. 1, 2, 4. The Editor. 



Ridgway Ornithological Club. Bulletin Nos. 1 and 2. The Society. 



American Antiquarian, VII, 1 ; IX, 1-5. The Editor. 



Christiania. Archiv for Mathematik og Naturvidenskab. XII, 1. The Editor. 



Videnskab-Selskab. Forhandlinger, 1886. The Society. 



Chur. Naturforschende Geseilschaft. Jahresbericht XXIX. The Society. 



Cincinnati. Society of Natural History. Journal, IX, 4-X, 3. TheSociety. 



Copenhagen. Botaniske Forening. Meddelelser II, I. Botaniske Tidsskrift, 



XV, 4e-XVI, 3. • The Society, 



Naturhistoriske Forening. Videnskabelige Meddelelser, 1884-86. 



The Society. 



K. D. Videnskabernes Selskab. Oversigt 1886. No. 2; 1887,1. Skrifter, 



II, 2; III, 4; IV, 2, 3. The Society. 



Corboda. Academia nacional de Ciencias exactas. Boletin, IX, 1,2,4. Actas. 



V, 3. The Society. 



Crawfordsville. Botanical Gazette. XI, 12-XII, 11. The Editor. 



Danzig. Naturforschende Geseilschaft. Schriften. N. F. VI, 4. The Society. 



Darmstadt. Verein fiir Erdkunde. Notizblatt, 3e Folge, IV, 7. The Society. 



Denver. Colorado Scientific Society. Proceedings, II, 2. The Society. 



Detroit. The Microscope, VII, 1. The Editor. 



Dorpat. Naturforscher Geseilschaft. Sitzungsberichte VIII, 1. Archiv fiir die 



Naturkunde Liv-Ehst-und Kurlands 2e Ser., IX, 4. 



Dresden. K. mineralogisch-geologisches und prsehistorisches Museum. Mitt- 



heilungen No. 7. The Director. 



Naturwissenschaftliche Geseilschaft Isis. Sitzungsberichte und Abhandlungen, 



1886, Juli-Dec; 1887. Jan-Juni. The Society. 



Dublin. Royal Geological Society of Ireland. Journal XVIII, 1. The Society., 



Royal Dublin Society Proceedings, N. S. V, 3, 4, 5, 6.; Transactions, Ser. 



II, Vol. Ill, 11-13. TheSociety. 




456 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Royal Irish Academy. Proceedings, Science, Ser. II, Vol. 4, No. 5; Polite 



Literature and Antiquities, Ser. II, Vol. 2, No. 7. Transactions, Science, 



XXVIII, 21-25; Polite Literature and Antiquities, XXVII, 6, 7, 8 ; 



Cunningham Memoirs, II, III. The Society. 



Science and Art Museum. Report of Director. 1887. The Society. 



Dunedin, N. Z. New Zealand Journal of Science, I, 2. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Edinburgh. Botanical Society. Transactions and Proceedings XVI, H. 



The Society. 

 Geological Society. Transactions, V, 2, 3 and Catalogue of the Library. 



The Society. 



Royal Physical Society. Proceedings, 1885-86. The Society. 



Elberfeld. Naturwissenschaftliche Verein. Jahres-Berichte, 7es H. The Society. 



Emden. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Jahresbericht, 71 er. The Society. 



Erfurt. K. Akademie gemeinutziger Wissenschaften. Jahrbucher, n. F. H. 14. 



The Society. 

 Erlangen. Biologisches Centralblatt. VI, 18-VII, 17. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Physikalisch-medicinische Societat. Sitzungsberichte H. 18. The Society. 

 Florence. Biblioteca nazionale central. Bolletino, 1886, Nos. 22-45. 



The Librarian. 

 Nuovo Giornale Botanico Italiano. (Camel.) XIX, 1-4. The Editor. 



Societa Entomologica Italiana. Bolletino, XVIII, 4; XIX, 1, 2. 



The Society. 



Society, Italiana di Antropologia, Etnologia e Psicologia comparata. Archivio, 



XVI, 2, 3; XVII, 1, 2. The Society. 



Folkestone. Natural History Society. Oct. 1886-June, 1887. The Society. 



Frankfurt a/M. Deutsche malakozoologische Gesellschaft. Jahrbucher, XIII, 4— 



XIV, 3-1887, No. 10. Nachrichtsblatt, 1886, No. 11. The Society. 



Frankfurter Verein fiir Geographie und Statistik. Jahresbericht, Jahrg. L. 



Beitrage zur Statistik V, 1. The Society. 



Physikalischer Verein. Jahresbericht, 1884-85; 1885-86. The Society. 



Senckenbergische Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Bericht 1886, 1887. Ab- 



handlungen XIV, 2, 8. The Society. 



Frankfurt a/O -Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein. Monathche Mittheilungen, IV. 



I-IO. The Society. 



Societatum Litterae. 1887. Nos. 1-10. The Editor. 



Freiburg, i. B. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Berichte I, The Society. 



Gand. Archives de Biologic. Van Beneden and Van Bambeke, VI, 3, 4. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Geneva. Institut National Genevois. Memoires, XVI. The Society. 



Recueil Zoologique Suisse (Fol) IV, 1-8. I. V. Wilhamson Fund. 



Genoa. Societa di Letture e Conversazione Scientifiche. Giornale, IX, 9, II, 12; 



X, le Sem. 3, 4. The Society. 



Giessen. Jahresbericht iiber die Fortschritte der Chemie. (Fittica). 1884, No. 



4-1885, No. 3. The Editor. 



Oberhesische Gesellschaft fiir Natur-und Heilkunde, 25er Bericht. 



The Society. 

 Glasgow. Natural History Society. Proceedings, n. s. I, 3. 



Philosophical Society. Proceedings, XVII. The Society. 



Gorlitz. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Abhandlungen, XIX. The Society. 



Oberlausitziche Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. Neues lausitziches Magazin, 



LXII, 2; LXIII, 1. The Society. 



Golden, Colorado. .State Board of Mines. Biennial report, 1886. The Director, 



Gotha. Dr. A. Petennan's Mitteilungen aus Justus Perthe's geograpischer An- 



staU XXXII, 11-XXXIII, 10. Erganzungsheft No. 84-87. Inhaltsverzeich- 



niss, 1875-84. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Granville, Ohio. Denison University. Bulletin of the Scientific Laboratories, II, 



1 , 2. The Trustees. 



s'Gravenhage. De Nederlandsche entomologische Vereeniging. Tijdschrift voor 



Entomologie, XXIX. 3 H.-XXX, 1. The Society, 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 457 



Graz. Botanisches Institute (Leitgeb). Mittheilungen H. 1. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 NaturwissenschafiHche Verein fur Steiermark. Mittheilungen, 1886. 

 Verein der Arzte in Steiermark. Mittheilungen, 1886. 



Zoologisches Institut. Arbeiten I, 2-II, 2. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Groningen. Natuurkundige Genootschap. Verslag, 1886. The Society. 



Giistrow. Verein der Freunde der Naturgeschichte in Mecklenberg. Archiv XL. 

 1886. The Society. 



Halifax. Nova Scotian Institute of Natural Sciences. Proceedings and Transac- 

 tions. VI, 4. The Society. 

 Halle. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Abhandlungen, XVI, 4. Bericht, 1885, 



1886. 



Halle a/3. Verein fiir Erdkunde. Mittheilungen, 1886. The Society. 



Zeitschrift fiir Naturwissenschaften, 4e F. V, 3-VI, 1. The Editor. 



Hamburg. Naturhistorisches Museum. Bericht, 1885. The Director. 



Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein. Abhandlungen, IX, 1, 2. The Society. 



Musee Teyler. Archives, 2nd Ser. II, 4. Catalogue de la Bibliotheque III, 



and IV. 



Societe Hollandaise des Sciences. Archives XXI, 2-5 ; XXII, 1. Verhand- 



lungen, 3e Verz. IV. 4. The Society. 



Helsingfors. Finska Vetenskaps-Societeten. Ofversigt XXVII. Observations 



Meteorologiques 1882, 1883. The Society. 



Hermannstadt. Siebenbiirgischer Verein fiir Naturwissenschaften. Verhandlungen 



und Mittheilungen XXXVII. Archiv. XXI, 1. Jahresbericht, 1885-6. 



The Society. 

 Iowa City. State Historical Society. Iowa Historical Record, Jan.-Oct., 1887. 



The Society. 



Jena. Anatomischer Anzeiger. II, 16-23. The Editor. 



Medicinisch-naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft. Zeitschrift XX, 1-XXI, 2. 



The Society. 

 Zoologische Jahrbiicher. II, 1-4. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Kharkow. Societe des Naturalistes a I'Universite imperiale. Travaux, XX. 



The Society. 

 Klagenfurt. Landesmuseum, Diagramme der magn. u. meteor. Beobachtungen, 

 1885-1886. Jahrbuch, 18. Bericht, 1885. Carinthia, 1886, No. 12- 

 - 1887, No. 10. The Society. 



Konigsberg. Physikalisch-okonomische Gesellschaft. Schriften, XXVII. 

 Landshut. Botanischer Verein. Bericht, ] 886-87. The Society. 



Lausanne. Societe Vaudoise des Sciences Naturelles. Bulletin, 94, 95. 

 Leeds, Journal of Conchology. V, 4. 5, 6. The Editor. 



Philosophical and Literary Society. Annual report, 1886-7. The Society. 

 Yorkshire Geological and Polytechnic Society. Proceedings, N. S. IX, 2. 



The Society. 

 Yorkshire Naturalists' Union. Transactions, IX, 1884. The Society, 



Leyden. Museum, Notes (Jentink) VIII, 1-4. The Editor. 



Nederlandsche Dierkundige Vereeniging. Tijdschrift, 2e Ser. I, 4. 



The Society. 

 Leipzig. Archiv f. Anatomic und Physiologic. Anat. Abth. 1886, Nos. 5 and 

 6; 1887,1-3. Physiol. Abth. 1886; Suppl. Bd. 1887,1-4. 

 Botanische Institut zu Tiibingen. Untersuchungen II, 2. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Botanische Jahrbiicher (Engler) VIII, 2-5; IX, 1. 



Botanische Zeitung. XLV, 4-6 ; XLIV, 1-3. I. V. WiUiamson Fund. 



Jahresberichte ii. d. Fortschritte der Anatomie und Physiologic. Her Bd. II, 

 Abth. 1. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Journal fiir Ornithologie, XXXIV, 2-XXXV, 2. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



K. sachsische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. Adhandlungen XIII, 6-9. 

 Bericht, 1886, I— IV, Suppl. The Society, 



Morphologisches Jahrbuch, XII, 3-XIII, 1. I. V. WiUiamson Fund. 



30 




458 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Verein fiir Erdkunde. Mittheilungen, 1885. The Society. 



Zeitschrift fiir Krystallographie und Mineralogie. Groth. XII, 4-XIII, 4. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Zeitschrift fiir wissenschaftliche Zoologie, XLIV, 3-XLV, 4. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Zoologische Station, Zoologischer Jahresbericht, 1885, 1, IV. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Zoologischer Anzeiger, Nos. 237-264. I. V. Wilhamson Fund. 



Liege. Societe Royale des Sciences. Memoires, XIII. The Society. 



Lille. Societe Geologique du Nord. Annales, XIII. The Society. 



Lisbon. Associacao dos Engenheiros Civis Portugueses. Revista de Obras publi- 



cas e Minas. 195-214. The Society. 



La Revue du Portugal et de ses Colonies 1887, Jan. Feb. The Editor. 



Liverpool. Free Public Librarj', Museum and Walker Art Gallery. 34th annual 



report. The Trustees. 



Geological Society. Proceedings, V, 3. The Society. 



Literary and Philosophical Society. Proceedings, Vols. 39 and 40. 



The Society. 

 Annals and Magazine of Natural History, 5th Ser. Nos. 108-119. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Anthropological Institute. Journal XVI, 3-XVII, 2. The Society. 



Astronomical Register. No. 288. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



IBritish Association for the Advancement of Science. Report 5.5th and otJth 

 Meetings. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



-Chemical Society, Abstract of Proceedings. Nos. 28-42. Journal 289-299. 



The Society. 

 Curtis's Botanical Magazine. Nos. 1198-1209. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



The Earth. Nos. 4-6, 8-10. 12, 13, 17. The Editor. 



The Electrician XVII, XIX, 28. The Editor. 



Entomological Society. Transactions, 1886. No. 4-1887, No. 3. The Society. 

 -Gardeners' Chronicle, 2nd Ser. No. 674 — 3rd Ser. I, 47. The Editor. 



Geological Magazine. Nos. 270-281. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



-Geological Society. Quarterly Journal. Nos. 168-171 ; List, 1885. 



The Society. 

 Geologists' Association. Proceedings IX, 7, 8; X, I and 3. The Society. 

 Grevillea (Cooke). I— XIV, 1880-86, XV, 73-77. 



Executors of Dr. Geo. Martin. 

 Hardwicke's Science Gossip. No. 264-275. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



The Ibis. 5th Ser. II, 17-20. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Journal of Botany, British and Foreign. Nos. 288-299. 



Journal of Physiology. VIII, 1-5. I. V, Williamson Fund. 



Knowledge IX, 9-12; X, 13-25. The Editor. 



Linnean Society Journal. Botany 140, 145-149, 151, 158; Zoologj', 114- 



117, 126-129. Proceedings, Oct. 1886, July, 1887. Transactions, 2nd 



Series; Zoology IV, 1, 2; Botany II, 9-14. List, 1886-1887. 



The Society: 



London, Edinburgh and Dublin Philosophical Magazine. 5th Series, Nos. 



139-150. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Mineralogical Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Mineralogical Magazine, 



Nos. 83 and 34. I. V. Wilhamson Fund. 



The Naturalist, Nos. 137-148. The Editor. 



Nature, Nos. 891-942. The Editor. 



Paleontographical Societj\ Publications, Vol. VL. Wilson Fund. 



Physical Society. Proceedings VIII, 3; IX, 1. The Society. 



Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science. 5th Series No. 107 ; N. S. No. 



109. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



■Queckett Microscopical Club. Journal Nos. 36-48; II Ser. Nos 1-19 ; Gen. 



Index. I-VI ; Catalogue of microscopical preparations ; Catalogue of books. 



The Society. 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 459 



London. Royal Institution of Great Britain Proceedings XI, 3. List, 1886. 



The Society. 

 Royal. Proceedings, Nos. 248-258. Philosophical Transactions, 177, Parts 1 



and 2. List, 30th, Nov. 1886. 

 Royal Geographical Society. Proceedings, n. s. VIII, 12-IX, 11. 



The Society. 

 Royal Microscopical Society. Journal VI, 2nd Ser. 6a; 1887, 1-4. 



The Society. 

 Scientific Enquirer, II, 1-2. The Editor. 



London Society of Arts. Journal, XXXIV. The Society. 



Triibner's American and Oriental Literary Record. Nos. 229-234. 



The Publishers. 



Zoological Record. 1885. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Zoological Society. Proceedings, 1886 No. 4-1887, No. 3. Transactions 



XII, 4, 5, 6. The Society. 



Zoologist. 3rd Ser. Nos. 120-131. The Editor. 



London, Ca. Canadian Entomologist. XVIII, 10-XIX, 11. The Editor. 



Louvain. University Catholique. Liber Memorialis, 1834-1884. Choix de 



Memoires, XIII. Annuaire XLI. Thirteen theses. The Society. 



Liibeck. Naturhistorische Museum. Jahresbericht, 1885, 1886. The Society. 



Luneburg. Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein. Jahreshefte, X. The Society. 



Lund. University. Acta. XXII. The University. 



Luxembourg. Institut Royal. Publications XX. The Society. 



Madrid. R. Academia de Ciencias exactas, fisicas y naturales. Memorias XI . 



Revista, XXII, 2, 3. The Society. 



Sociedad Geografica. Boletin, XXI, 3-6; XXII, 3-6? The Society. 



Magdeburg. Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein. Jahresbericht u. Abhandlungen, 



1886. The Society. 



Malton. Malton Field Naturalists' and Scientific Society. 3rd Annual Report. 



The Society. 



Manchester. Geological Society. Transactions, XIX, 2—10. The Society. 



Microscopical Society. Transactions 1886. The Society. 



Scientific Students' Association. ' Annual report, 1885, 1886. The Society. 



Meriden, Conn. Scientific Association. Transactions II. The Society. 



Metz. Societe d'Histoire Naturelle. Bulletin, 2e Ser. 16 and 17 Cah. 



The Society. 



Verein fiir Erdkunde, 9er Jahresbericht. The Society. 



Mexico. Museo Nacional. Anales, III, 10, 11 ; IV, 1. The Director. 



Sociedad Cientifica "Antonio Alzate." Memorias, I, 2-A. The Society. 



Sociedad de Geografia y Estadistica. Boletin VI, 4-9. The Society. 



Sociedad Mexicana de Historia Natural. La Naturaleza, VII, 16-24; 2d 



Ser. I, 1. The Society. 



Middelburg. Zeeuwsch Genootschap der Wetenschappen. Archief VI, 2. 



The. Society. 



Middleton, Wesleyan University. Report, 15th. The Society. 



Milan. R. Istituto Lombardo di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti. Rendiconti, Ser. II,- 



XIX, 12,— XX, 18? The Society. 



Modena. Societa dei Naturalisti. Atti, Ser. Ill, Vol. Ill, pp. 1-48; Vol. IV. 



The Society. 

 Mons. Societe des Science, des Arts et des Lettres du Hanaut. Memoires et 

 Publications IVme Ser. T. 9me. The Society. 



Montreal. Canadian Record of Science, II, .5-8. The Editor. 



Moscow. Societe Imperiale des Naturalistes. Bulletin, 1886, 2-4 : Beilage, I, 

 XII. The Society. 



Miinster. Westfalischer Provinzial-Verein fur Wissenschaft und Kunst. Jahres- 

 bericht, 14er. The Society. 

 Munich. Gesellschaft fiir Anthropologic, Ethnologic und Urgeschichte. Beitrage, 

 VII, 3-4. The Society. 

 Zeitschrift fur Biologic, XXIII, 3-XXIV, 1. I. V. WiUiamson Fund. 




460 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1887. 



Nancy. Societe des Sciences. Bulletin, Serie 2me, III, 19. The Society. 



Naples, R. Accademia delle Scienze fisiche e matematiche, XXV, 4-12. 



R. Istituto d'Incoraggiamento alle Scienze Naturali economiche e technolo- 



giche. Atti, 3er Ser. V. The Society. 



Zoologische Station. Mitthelungen VII, 1, 2. Zoologischer. Jahresbericht, 



1885, II. The Director. 



Neuchatel Societe des Sciences Naturelles. Bulletin, XV. The Society. 



Newcastle-upon Tyne. Natural History Society of Northumberland, Durham and 



Newcastle upon-Tyne. Transactions, VIII, 2; IX, 1. The Society. 



New Haven. Connecticut Academy. Transactions VII, 1. The Society. 



The American Journal of Science No's, 193-203. The Editor. 



New York. Academy of Sciences. Annals, III, 12; IV, 1, 2. Transactions IV, 



V, 7 and 8. The Society. 



Astor library, annual report, .SSth. The Trustees. 



The Auk, IX, 1-4 and Index. The Editor. 



American Bookseller XX. 5. The Editor. 



The American Chemist, VII, 10. The Editor. 



Cooper Union, 26th, 27th and 28th annual reports. The Trustees. 



Forest and Stream, XXVII, 19-XXIX, 18. The Editor. 



The Forum. Ill, 1. The Editor. 



American Geographical Society. Bulletin, 1885, No. 3, 1887 No. 3. 



The Society. 

 Library Journal, XI, 12-XII, 11. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Literary News, VII, 12-VIII, n. The Editor. 



Mercantile Library Association of the City of New York, 66th annual report. 

 Bulletin, No. 9. The Librarian. 



New York Medical Journal, XLIV, 23-XLVI, 22. The Editor. 



Am. Museum of Natural History. Bulletin II, 1. Annual Report, 1886-7. 



The Society. 



Pharmaceutical Association. Proceedings, 9th Meeting. The Society. 



Popular Science Monthly, Jan.-Dec. 1887. The Editor. 



Science, No's. 200-251. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Swiss Cross, I, 1. The Editor. 



Torrey Botanical Club. Bulletin, XIII, 12-XIV, IL The Society. 



Nijmegen. Nederlandsche Botanische Vereeniging. Nederlandsch Kruidkundig 



Archief, 4e Serie V, 1. The Society. 



Niinnberg. Naturhistorische Gesellschaft. Jahresbericht, Abhandlungen, VIII, 4, 



5. The Society. 



Odessa. Societe des Naturahstes de la Nouvelle Russie. Memoirs, XI, 2. 



The Society. 

 Omaha. Omaha Public Library, 10th Annual report. The Librarian. 



Ottawa. Ottawa Field-Naturalists' Club. Transactions, No. 7. Ottawa Natural- 

 ist, I, 1-8. The Society. 

 Oxford. Annals of Botany, I, 1. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Padova. Societa Veneto-Trentina di Scienze Naturale. Atti. X, 1. Bollettino, IV, 

 1. The Society. 

 Palermo. Reale Accademia di Scienze, Lettere e Belle Arti. Bullettino, 111,1-3. 



The Society. 

 R. Istitute Technico superiore. Programma, 1866-67. The Society. 



II Naturalista Siciliano, VI, 3-VII, 2. The Editor. 



Paris. Annales des Mines. 8me Ser. IX, 5, 6; XI, 1, 2, 3. 



Minister of Public Works in France. 

 Annales des Sciences Naturelles, Zoologie et Palaeontologie, 7me, Ser. 1, 

 1-6; II, 1-6; Botanique 7me, Ser. IV, 5, 6; V, 1-6; VI, 1. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Archives de Zoologie experimentale et generale, 2me Ser. IV, 4; V, 1. 2. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Ecole polytechnique. Journal, 56. The Society. 



Institution Ethnographique. Bulletin de 1' Alliance Sclent. Univ. 72, 73. 

 Journal de Conchyliologie, XXVI, 1. The Editor 




1887.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 461 



Journal de Micrographie, X, 11-1887, 14. The Editor. 



Le Naturaliste, 188H, No. 47-2me, Ser. 17. The Editor. 



Revue d' Ethnographic, V, 4-VI, 2. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Revue Geographique, No. 132-134, 136-139, 141. The Editor. 



Revue Scientitique, XXXVUI, 22-25. The Editor. 



Societe d'Acclimatation. Bulletin, 4e, Ser. Ill, 8, 12-IV, 1, 2, 5-7, 9-12; 



No. Supplem. The Society. 



Societe nationale d' Agriculture de France. Bulletin, 1886, No. 10-1887, 



No. 9. The Society. 



Societe de Biologie. Compte Rendu des Seances, 1886, No's. 16, 27, 40,-1887, 



No. 35. The Society. 



Societe Geologique de France. Bulletin, 3e. Ser. XIV, 6,-XV, 3. 



The Society. 



Societe Malacologique de France. Bulletin, No. 2, Dec. 1886. Annales XX. 



Proces-Verbaux, 1886, Jan. 9 July 4. Statuts. Revue Biographique, 18S6. 



The Society. 

 Societe Francaise de Mineralogie. Bulletin, IX, 8-X, 6. The Society. 



Societe Philomathique. Bulletin, 7me, Ser. X, 3-XI. The Society. 



Societe Zoologique. Bulletin, 1886, No's. 4-6; 1887, No's. 1, 2. 



The Society. 

 Pawtucket. Free Public Library, Annual report, 1886. The Librarian. 



Peoria. Scientific Association. Bulletin, 1887. The Society. 



Perth. Scottish Naturalist. N. S. No. 14, 16-18. The Editor. 



Philadelphia. Academy of Natural Sciences, Proceedings 1886, III-1887, II. 



American Entomological Society, Transactions, XIII, 3, 4 ; XIV, 1 ; Supple- 

 ment, 1887, I. The Society. 

 .Am. Journal of the Medical Sciences, fan.-Oct. 1887. The Editor. 

 American Journal of Pharmacy. XVI, 12, XVII, 11. The Editor. 

 American Naturalist, XX, 12,-XXI, 10. The Editor. 

 American Philosophical Society. Proceedings 124, 125. The Society. 

 College of Pharmacy. Alumni Association. Annual report, XXIII. 



The Society. 

 The Conchololgists' Exchange, I, 6, 8, 10,-12; II, 1-4. The Editor. 



The Dental Cosmos., XXVIII, 12-XXIX, 11. The Editor. 



Engineers' Club. Proceedings, VI, 1, 2. The Society. 



Franklin Institute. Journal, No. 732-743. The Society. 



Gardener's Monthly." Dec. 1886-Nov. 1887. The Editor. 



Historical Society of Pennsylvania. Pennsylvania Magazine of History and 

 Biography. X, 4. -XI, 3. The Society. 



Journal of Comparative Medicine and Surgery, VIII, 1-4. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Library Co. of Philadelphia. Bulletin, Jan., July-Sept. 1887. The Librarian. 

 Medical and Surgical Reporter, LVI, 22-LVII, 22. The Editor. 



Mercantile Libr. Co., Report, 1887. The Librarian. 



Microscopical Bulletin, Tune,-Oct. 1887. The Editor. 



Naturalists' Leisure Hour., Dec. 1886.-Sept. 1887. The Editor. 



Polyclinic. IV, 6-V, 5. The Editor. 



Society for Organizing Charity. Annual report, 8th. The .Society. 



University of Pennsylvania. Department of Biology, Announcement for 



session 1887-88. 



W^agner Free Institute of Science. Transactions, I, 1887. The Trustees. 



Zoological Society, 15th annual report. The .Society. 



Pisa. .Societa Malacologica Italiana. Bulletino, XII, .5-15. Society. 



Societa Tosc. di Scienze Naturali. Atti, Process! Verb. V, 119-263, VII, 2, 



Memorie, VIII, 1. The Society. 



Pittsburg. The Bookmart, IV, 42. The Publishers. 



Poughkeepsie. \'assar Brothers Institute. Transactions, IV. The Director. 



Prag. Deutscher Verein zur Verbreitung gemeinniitziger Kenntnisse. Sammlung 



gemeinniitziger Vortrage, No. 114. The Society. 



Lotos. VII. The Editor. 




462 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1887. 



Raleigh. Elisha Mitchell Scientific Society. Journal 1885-86. The Society. 



Regensburg. K. B. botanische Gesellschaft. flora, n. R. 44. The Society. 



NaturwissenschaftlicherVerein. Correspondenz-Blatt, 40. The Society. 



Reichenbach, IV. Verein fiir Naturkunde. Mittheilungen, 5es H. The Society. 

 Riga. Naturforscher-Verein. Correspondenzblatt, 29er, Jahrg. The Society. 



Rio Janeiro. Museu Nacional. Archivos, III, 1, 2. The Director. 



Observatoire. Revista, I, 11-11, 9. The Director. 



Rochester. Warner Observatory. History and Work, 1883-1886, I. 



The Director. 



Rome. R. Accademia dei Lincei. Serie Quarta, Rendiconti, II, 8-III, 13, 2e, 



Sem. 1-3. The Society. 



Archives Italiennes de Biologic, VH, 3 ; VHI, 1, 2. Catalogue des Travaux, 



1885. I. V. WiUiamson Fund. 



Biblioteca Nazionale Centrale Vittorio Emanuell. Bollettino, I, o-II, 3. 



The Librarian. 

 Societa Geographica Itahana. Bollettino, Ser. II, An. XX, 11-XXI, 9. 



The Society. 

 Societa degli Spettroscopisti Italiani. Memorie, XV, 8-XVI, 8. The Society. 

 St. Gall. St Gallische naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft. Bericht, 1884-8o. 



The Society. 



Saint John. Natural History Society of New Brunswick. Bulletin, No. 6. 



St. Louis. Academy of Sciences. Transactions, IV, 4. The Society. 



St. Petersburg. K. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Bulletin, XXX, 4-XXXI, 



2-4. Memoires XXXIV, 4-XXXV, 2. Repertorium fiir Meteorologie, 



Supplementband, II-IV. The Society. 



Hortus Universitatis Imperialis Petropolitance. Scripta Botanica, I, II. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Physikalische Central-Observatorium. Annalen, 1885, 1, 2. The Director. 

 Imp. russkoye geografitcheskoye Obschtchestvo. Izviestiya, XXII, 6-XXIII, 



3. Report, 1886. 

 Russian Physico-Chemical Society of the University, XVIII, 8, 9. 



The Society. 



Societas Entomologica Rossica. Horae, XX. The Society. 



Salem, Essex Institute. Bulletin, XVIII, No's 7-12. The Society. 



Peabody Academy of Sciences, 19th annual report. The Society. 



San Diego. W^est-American Scientist, II, 21-29. The Editor. 



San Francisco. Cahfornia Academy of Sciences. Bulletin, No's 6, 7. 



The Society. 



Mercantile Library, 34th annual report. The Trus 



Santa Barbara. Society of Natural History. Report of Proceedings. Bulletin, 



No. 1. The Society. 



Santiago. Wissenschaftlicher Verein. Verhandlungen, 5 H. The Society. 



Semur. Societe des Sciences historiques et naturelles. Bulletin. 2e S. No. 2. 



The Society. 



Siena. R. Accademia dei Fisiocritici. Sezione dei Cultori delle Scienze Medici. 



Bolletino, V, 3-9. The Society. 



Springfield, Illinois. Industrial University, I3th report. The Trustees. 



Stettin. Entomologischer Verein. Entomologischer Zeitung, XLIV. The Society. 



Verein fiir Erdkunde. Jahresbericht, 1886. The Society.- 



Stockholm. Entomologiske Tidskrift, VII, 1-4. The Editor. 



Geologiska Foreningens. Forhandlingar, VIII, (i-IX, 4. The Society. 



Svenska Sallskabet for Anthropologi och Geografi. Ymer. 1886, H. 1-4, 8. 



The Society. 



K. Vetenskaps Akademien. Ofversigt 1885, No. 10; 1886, No, 9; 1887, 



No's 1-6. Bihang, XI. I-XII, 4. The Society. 



Stuttgart. Humboldt, 1886, No. 12-1887, No. 11. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Kosmos. 1886, II, 4-6. I: V. Williamson Fund. 



Verein fiir vaterlandische Naturkunde in Wiirttemberg. Jahreshefte, 43. 



Switzerland. Societe Helvetique des Sciences Naturelles, 69me Ses. The Society. 




1887.] JfATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 463 



Sydney. Linnean Society of New South Wales. Proceedings Ser. I, Vol. 2, No. 

 1 ; Ser. II, Vol. 1, No's 2-4 ; Vol. 2, No. 2. Catalogue of the library, 

 1886. Tne Society, 



Royal Society of New South Wales. Journal and Proceedings, XIX. 



The Society. 

 Tasmania. Royal Society. Papers and Proceedings and Report, 1885. 



The Society. 



Tokio. Medieinische Facultiitderkaiserlich-japanische Universitat. Mittheilungen, 



I, 1. The Faculty. 



Sei i Kwai. Transactions, Supplement, V, 11-VI, 10. The Society. 



University, Literature College. Memoirs, No. 1. The Society. 



Topeka. Kansas State Historical Society. Report, .5th biennial; 1887- 



The Society. 

 Washburn Laboratory of Natural History. Bulletin, I, 7, 8. The Society. 

 Toronto. Canadian Institute. Proceedings, n. s. IV, 2; V, 1. The Society, 



Entomological Society. Annual Report, 1887. The Society. 



Toulouse. Academic des Sciences, Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres. Memoires, 8me, 

 Ser. VIII. The Society. 



Revue Mycologique, VII, 33-36. The Editor. 



Societe d'Histoire Naturelle. Compte rendu sommaire de la seances, 2 Juin, 

 20 Juil, 1886; Mars 2, 1887. Bulletin, XIX, XX. The Society. 



Trenton, Natural History Society. Journal, I, 2. The Society. 



Trieste, Societa Adriatica di Scienze Naturali. Bollettino, X. The Society. 



Tiibingen. Der Naturforscher, XIX, 27-XX, 26. The Editor. 



Turin, R. Accademia delle Scienze. Memorie, Ser. 2a XXXVII. Atti, XXI, 

 1-7. The Society. 



Osservatorio della Regia Universita. Bollettino, XX. The Director. 



Musei di Zoologia ed Anatomia comparata della R. Universita. Bollettino, I, 

 16; II, 19-26. • The Society. 



United States. American Association for the Advancement of Science. Proceed- 

 ings, XXXV. The Society. 

 American Pharmaceutical Association. Proceedings, XXXIV. The Society. 

 Upsal. Observatoire de I'Universite. Bulletin meteorologique, XVIII. 



The Society. 

 Utrecht. K. nederlandsch meteorologisch Instituut, Jaarboek, 1878, II ; 1886. 



The Director. 

 Provinciaal Utrechtsch Genootschap van Kusten en Wetenschappen. ^^erslag, 

 1886. Aanteekeningen, 1886. The Society. 



Valparaiso. Wissenschaftlicher Verein zu Santiago, 1886, 3 and 4 H 



The Society. 



Venice. L'Ateneo Veneto. Ser. XI, Vol. I, No. l-II, 6. The Editor. 



R. Istituto Veneto di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti. Atti. Ser. VI, T. Ill, 10-V, 1. 



The Society. 



Notarisia, I, 5-7. The Editor. 



Vienna. K. Akademie der Wissenschaften, Sitzungsberichte, math-naturw 



Classe, XCII Bd. I Abth. 5-10, II Abth. 4-10, III Abth. 3-10; XCIII 



Bd. I Abth. 1-5, II Abth. 1-5, III Abth. 1-5.; XCIV Bd. I Abth. 1-5, 



II Abth. 1-5, III Abth. 1-5; XCV Bd. II Abth. 1, 2. Denkschrift, L, 



LI, LII. The Society. 



Anthropologische Gesellschaft. Mittheilungen, XVI, 1-XVII, 2. 



The Society. 

 Congres intemationational d'hygiene et de demographic, 1887. Programme. 



The Council. 

 K. K. geologische Reichsanstalt. Verhandlungen, 1886, No. 13-1887, No. 

 14. Jahrbuch, XXXVI, 2-XXXVII, 1. Abhandlungen, XII. 1-4. 



The Society. 




464 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1887. 



Mineralogische und petrographische Mittheilungen, (Tschermak), N. F. VIII, 



1-IX, 3. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Ornis II, 2-III, 1. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



K. k. zoologisch-botanische Gesellschaft. Verhandlungen, XXXVI, 3, 4; 



XXXVIII, 1, 2. The Society. 



Washington. The American Botanical Register, No. 1, 2 and 8. 



Thomas Meehan. 



American Monthly Microscopical Journal, VII, 12-VIII, 10. The Editor. 



Chemical Society. Bulletin, No. 2. The Society, 



Philosophical Societ}'. Bulletin, IX. The Society. 



Smithsonian Institution. Annual Report for 1885, I. Miscellaneous Collections, 



XXVIII-XXX. The Institution. 



United States Fish Commission. Bulletin, VI, VII, 1-7. The Commission. 



United States National Museum. Proceedings, VIII, pp. 289 et seq. 1887, 



sheets 1-24. Annual Reports 1881, 1882 and 1883. The Director. 



U. S. Publications. Monthly Catalogue, II, 7-III, 6. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Wellington. New Zealand Institute. Transactions, XIX. 

 Wiesbaden. Nassauischer Verein fur Naturkunde. Jahrbucher, Jahrg. 40. 



The Society. 

 Wilkes barre. Wyoming Historical and Geological Society. Proceedings III. 



Angelo Heilprin. 

 Worcester. American Antiquarian Society. Proceedings, IV, 3, 4. The Society. 

 Wurzburg. Botanisches Institut. Arbeiten, III, 3. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Physik.-medicin. Gesellsch. Verhandlungen, XX. Sitzungsberichte, 1886. 



The Society. 

 Zoologisch-zootomisches Institut. Arbeiten, VIII, 2. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Yokohama. Asiatic Society of Japan. Transactions, XIV, 2-XV, 2. 



The Society. 



Seismological Society of Japan. Transactions, X. The Society'. 



Zurich. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Viertel-Jahrsschrift, XXX, XXXI, 1, 2. 



The Society. 

 Zwickau. Verein fiir Naturkunde. Jahresbericht. 1886. The Society. 




INDEX TO GENERA, ETC. 

 1887. 



Acanthias 361 



Acanthocystis 122 



Acanthorynchus 894 



Accipenser 24 



Acliirus 389, 391 



Achyrodon 289 



Acrosoma .343 



Actaeonidea 53 



Actinophrys 122 



Actinosphraerium 122 



Aesculus 156 



Aesthenodon 290 



Agnostus 18 



Aquileria 32, 35-37 



Allagecrinus 97, 98, 100, 103, 105, 



110-113 



Allodon 285 



Ambloplites 23 



AmblolhendK 289 



Amblotherium 289, 290 



Amoeba 122 



Amorpha 329 



Amphibulima 136, 137 



Amphidesma 403 



Amphilestes 282, 283, 287 



Amphicarpoea 323, 325 



Amphitherium 283, 288 



Amphitylus ....283, 287 



Amphiuma 365 



Anatina 397, 403 



Anguilla 359 



Anomia 340, 400, 402 



Aphyllon 154 



Aranea 383 



Area 340, 398. 400, 4(l2 



Arcella 31, 122 



Argiope 369 



Aristolochia 80 



Artemis 340, 401, 403 



Ascaris 21 



Asio 20 



Asplanchna 157 



Assiminea 152, 153 



Astarte 33, 340, 397, 398, 400, 402 



Athrodon 284, 290 



Athrodontida; 290 



Atta 337 



Atypus 373 



Auchenia 309 



Auchenopterus 387 



Auricula 138, 139, 141, 142, 144 



Auriculus 144, 145 



Bakevellia 36 



Balanoglossus 347 



Balanus 55 



Bathyurus 18 



Bementite 311 



Bodianus 295 



Bolodon 284, 286 



BolodontidEe 285 



Bombinator 351 



Brachyspira 137 



Brevoortia 296 



Bulimus 131, 132 



Bulla 54 



Buteo 21 



Cancellaria 399, 404 



Cantharus 398, 403 



Cardlta 340, 400, 403 



Carditmera 397, 398, 400, 403 



Cardium 340, 398, 400, 403 



Carex 68-80 



Carterius...l70, 179, 180, 181, 260-268 



Carinorbis 399, 404 



Caryocrimis 100,101 107 



Cassidula 139, 142, 143 



Castanea 120 



Cecus 20 



Centropomus 295 



Centropyxis 122 



Cephalanthus 325, 327, 328 



Chama 398, 403 



Chameleo 359 



Chionanthus 280 



Chirox 286 



Choloepus 67 



465 




466 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1887. 



Chrysochroris 290, 292 



Cimex 38 



Cioiiella ] 3(5 



Circe 33 



Cistudo 394 



Clavulina 55 



Clepsine 49 



Coccocrinus 97,98, 103, 104, 105 



Columba 359 



Columbella 51,398 403 



Composite 328 



Conocephalites 17 



Conovulus 138, 139 



Corbula 340,341,397, 401, 403 



Cordinla 53 



Cottus 354, 359 



Crassatella 33, 340, 397-402 



Cremnobates 387 



Crepidiila 399, 404 



Cristellaria 55, 405 



Cristiceps 387 



Crocodilus 359 



Crucibulum 55, 399, 404 



Cryptoblastus 89 



Ctenacodon 285 



Cteniza 379 



Culicocriiius ..93, 95, 97, 103, 104, 105 



Cyathociinus 101, 102, 111, 112 



Cylister 373 



Cyclophorus 147, 148 



Cyclostoma 146, 147, 148 



Cycloturus 115 



Cyclotus 148 



Cylichna 54 



Cypris 157 



Cyrtophora 340, 343 



Cytherea 341, 401, 403 



Dalliconcha 32, 34, 35 



Danthonia 392 



Daphina 157 



Dasyurus 289, 291 



Delphinula 399' 494 



Dendrophylia ...34], 401 



Dentalium 54 



Dentiteiebra 51, 52 



Dichocrinus 110 



Dicyema 23 



Didelphys 289 



Difflugia 31, 122, 123 



Diplocynodon 289 



Diplocynodontidae 289 



Diplommatina 14(5 



Discina 341,399,400, 402 



Discus 129 



Distoma 115 



Distomum 24 



Docodon 289 



Doliolum 298, 299 



Donax 341, 401, 403 



Dorvcriniis 107 



Dos'ilia 179 



Dromat heridae 291 



Droniatherium 291 



Diyolestes 290, 292 



Dysodus 364 



Dryopithecus 317 



Echidna 334 



Echinocactus 332 



Echinorhynchus 22 



Eciiinus 341 



Elajaciinus 83, 91-95, 101 



Elanoides 22 



Elasmobraiichii 345, 346 



Ellobium 144, 145 



Embolinius 15, 16 



Emys 394 



Enneodon 289 



Epeira 342 



Eranthus 119 



Ephydatia 177, 178, 179 



Eryphila 33 



Esox 354, 355, 357-359 



Etrumeus 296 



Euglypha 122 



Eulima 54 



Euspongilla 172-175, 179, 193 



Eusyodoii 309 



Falco 20 



Felis 359 



Filaria 20 



Fimbriella 53 



Fissurella 397, 399, 404 



Formica 27,29, 335, 370 



Fulgur 341, 398, 401, 403 



Gadus 22 



Galanthus 119 



Gasteracantha 343 



Gastrophilus 394 



Gastrostomus 35), 352 



Gervillia 34, 35 



Glyptocrinus 105 



Glyptodon 316 



Gouldia 33 



Grampus 49 



Granatocrinus. 83, 84, 91, 92, 93, 



95, 96 



Halisitus 24 



Haiichondria 233 



Haplocrinus.... 97-103, 105, 106, 110, 



112, 113 



Helianthus 328 



Helicina 150, 151, 152 



Helicopsis 124, 125, 129 



Heliopsis 328 



Helix 124-130 



Heteromeyenia 180,181, 226, 227, 



236, 247 




1887.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



467 



Hippopotamus 317 



Hippotheiium 310 



Holopus 105 



Holorhaphidota 180 



Homo 359 



Hydra 311, 312, 313 



Hydropsyche 294 



Hyocrinus Ill 



Hydrocena 152, 153 



Hyolites 19 



Ictalurus 9 



Impatiens 324 



Juglandocrinus 107 



Juncus 68 



Kutorgina 19 



Labrosomus 387 



Lacerta 50 



Laemodonra 142 



Lagenopsyche 294 



Laimodonta 142 



Lamna 341, 401 



Laodon 290 



Lemna 157 



Leptasna 19 



Leptoclaudus 290 



Lepus 359 



Liatris 330 



Limnaeus 115 



Lithodomus 397, 398, 402 



Lophius 351, 353 



Lubomirskia 163, 180, 270, 271 



Lucina 341, 398, 400, 403 



Lumbricus 49, 50 



Lycosa 383 



Macrauchenia 317 



Mactra 341,398, 401, 403 



Magnolia 155, 156, 332 



Margaritophora '. 35, 36 



Marginella 399, 404 



Mastodon 309 



Megalonyx 316 



Megalops 24 



Megatherium 316 



Megistocrinus 107 



Melampus 138-143 



Meniscoessus 282, 286 



Mercenaria 397, 398, 403 



Mesoblastuso 85, 89 



Microconodn 291 



Microcystis 124, 125 



Microlestes 282, 2?^5 



Micropterus 23 



Mikrola 53 



Miliolina 55 



Mola 348, 351 



Monoceplialus 16 



Monostonum 24 



Monopteria 35 



Morone 295 



Moussonia 146 



Muraenopsis 365 



Murex 398, 403, 404 



Mustelus 358, 359, 362 



Mycteroperca 387, 388' 



Meyenia 170, 171, 177-236 



Meyeninae 176 



Mygale 370, 379, 380 



Myidae .. 53 



Myliobatis 341, 401 



Mylodon 316 



Mysia 341, 397, 400, 403 



Mytiloconclia 341, 398, 400, 402 



Mytilus 341, 397-400, 402 



Nanina 124-127 



Narcine 362 



Nassa 341, 398, 401, 403, 405 



Natica 341, 397, 399, 401, 404 



Nebela 122, 123 



Nemesia 379 



Neoplagiaulax 285 



Nitella 239 



Nitzscliia 24 



Nonionina 55 



Nucleocrinus 93 



Nucula 341, 398, 400, 402 



Obolella 18 



Odontaspis 341, 401 



Odostomia 51 



Ogygia 12,13,- 14 



Omalonyx , 136 



Ommastrephes 23 



Omplialotropis 149, 150, 152 



Opeas 131. 132 



Ophiognatlius 351, 352. 353 



Ophicardelus 142, 143 



Ornitliorhynchus 334, 335 



Oropliocrinus 83, 84, 86, 91, 92, 93, 95 



Onliis 19 



Ostodes 146, 147, 148 



Ostrea 341,397^00, 402 



Oxybaphus 330 



Parmula...l80, 181, 227, 236, 254-260 



Pariula 133, 134, 135 



Partulus 133 



Pasitliea .! 54 



Patellipora 11 



Paurodon 289 



Patula 129, 130 



PaurodontidK 289 



Paxillus 146 



Pecten 341,397-402, 405 



Pectunculus 398, 402 



Pelargonium 154 



Pentremites 83-92 




468 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1887. 



Peralestes 284, 289 290 



Piralestidae 288, 289 



Peramus 284, 289 



Peraspalax 284, 289 



Perca 22, 295 



Peripatus 117 



Perna 34-36, 341, 398-402 



Perophora 305 



Phascolestes 284 



Phascolomys 290 



Phascolotheridae 288 



Phascolotherium 283, 288 



Phelipoea 154 



Phocaena 353, 354, 358, 359 



Physoclisti 353 



Pitys 129, 130 



Plagiaulacidse 285 



Plagiaulax 282, 285, 286 



Plagusia 391 



Platophrys 391 



Platycrinus 93, 95, 104, 106, 108, 



110. 



Platydactylus 359 



Plecotrema 142, 143 



Pleiomeyenia 181 



Pleuronectidae 391 



Pleurotoma 52, 399, 404 



Plicatula 397, 398, 402 



Plotus 22 



Polyctenes 38 



Polyeigus 27 



Poly gord ins 50 



Polymastodontidre 286 



Priacodon 287 



Polymorphina 55 



Polvpterus 365, 367 



Polvzoan 341 



Potamolepsis 180, 182, 269, 270 



Potamospongida ISO 



Pseudopus 359 



Ptilodus 285 



Pulvinulina 55 



Pupa 137, 138, 146 



Pymlaria 80 



Pythia 143, 144 



Raia 357,358,359,362, 365, 366 



Rana 50, 357, 359 



Realia 149, 150, 152, 153 



Redia 115 



Reteocrinus 105 



Rhinoceros 309 



Rhizocrinus Ill 



Ringicula 54 



Robulina 405 



Rosa 155 



Saccharum 118 



Salpa 298-308 



Saxicava 397, 398,403 



Schizoblastus 84, 85, 89, 93, 95 



Solea 391 



Spalacotheridje 288 



Spalacotherium 284 



Sphaeronistes 107 



Spheniopsis 53 



Spongida 180 



Spongilla 162, 165 167, 171 172 



209, 222, 227 



Spongillidae 172 



Spongillinae 172, 180 



Stearnsia 32, 33 



Stenogyra 131, 132, 135 



Stephanocrinus 91, 92, 93, 97-102, 



107, 109, 110 



Stereognathus 282, 286 



Strix 20, 22 



Strombocarpus 235 



Stvlacodon 290 



Stylodon 284, 290 



Stylodontidae 289, 289, 290 



Subulina 131 



Succinea 136, 137 



Symbathocrinus 106 



Taenia 22. 23, 24 



Taheita 146 



Talarocrinus 110 



Talpa 117 



Tamandua 116 



Tamias -57 



Tegenaria 372 



Tellinella 397, 403 



Tellina 54, 341, 397, 398, 401, 403 



Tei-ebra 399, 403 



Teredo 398, 403 



Testudo 359 



Tetrabothriorhynchus 23 



Textularia 55 



Thalassia 124 



Thaumatocrinus 108 



Thracia 397, 403 



Thylacinus 287 



Thylacoleo 282 



Tornatella 52 



Tornatellina 135, 136 



Tornatina 54 



Torpedo 362, 365 



Toxodon 317 



Trachemys 22 



Tralia 139 



Triacanthodon 287 



Tribrachiocrinus 112 



Triconodon 283, 284, 287 



Triconodontidae 287 



Triforis 399, 403, 405 



Triglyphus 282, 286 



Tlieca 19 




1887.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



469 



Tritylodon 282, 286 



Trochiia 399, 404 



Trochomorpha 126, 127, 128 



Trochonanina 125, 126 



Trochospongilla .• 176, 177 



Troilus 129 



Tropidonotus ; 121 



Truncatella 145, 146 



Truncatulina 55 



Tubella....l71, ISO, 181, 227, 248-254 



Turbinella 341, 397, 398, 401, 403 



Turbo 399, 404 



Turbonilla 51 



Turritella..54, 341, 397, 399, 401, 404 



Unicardium 53 



Uiomastix 359 



Uruguaya ISO, 268 



Uveana 143 



Vertigo 137, 138 



Vicia 323 



Videna 127 



Viola 325 



Voandesia 323 



Venus 341, 397, 398, 401, 403 



Voluta 141 



Yoldia 397, 398, 402 



Zonites 125, 126 




470 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1887. 



GENERAL INDEX 



1887. 



Additions to Library, 437. 



Additions to Museum, 433. 



Allen, Harrison, M. D. A prodrome of 

 of a memoir on animal locomotion, 

 56, 60. 



Baird, Spencer F., Announcement of 

 death of, 294. 



Binder, Jacob. Report of Curator of 

 Wm. S. Vaux Collections, 417. 



Biological and Microscopical Section, 

 report of, 418. 



Botanical Section, report of, 422. 



Brinton D. G., M. D. Report of the 

 Professor of Ethnology and Archaeo- 

 logy. 



Chapman, Henry C, M. D. Notes on 

 the anatomy of Echidna hystrix, 

 (Plates XIV, XV), 156, 334. 



Conchological Section, report of, 419. 



Corresponding Secretary, report of, 407. 



Curators, report of, 411. 



Dolley, Chas. S., M. D. On the histo- 

 logy of Salpa, (Plate XHI), 298. 



Eigenmann, Carl PI. Notes on the 

 specific names of certain North Ameri- 

 can fishes, 280, 295. 



Election of Officers, Councillors and 

 Committees; of Members and Corres- 

 pondents during 1887, 431. 



Entomological Section, report of, 421. 



Fielde, Adele M. Notes on the geology 

 of China, 30; Chinese rhizopods, 31. 

 Note on the multiplication of Distoma, 

 115. Notes on fresh-water rhizopods 

 of Swatow, China, 122; On an aquatic 

 larva and its case, 293. 



Garrett, Andrew. The terrestrial mol- 

 lusca inhabiting the Samoa or Naviga- 

 tor Islands, 115, 124. 



Hartman, "Wm. D., M. D. A biblio- 

 graphic and synonymic catalogue of 

 the genus Auriculella Pfr. 396; A 

 bibliographicand synonymic catalogue 

 of the genus Achatinella Swns., 396. 



Hayden, Ferdinand V., M. D., An- 

 nouncement of death of, 396. 



Heilprin, Angelo. A new species of 

 Catfish (Ictalurus) 9; Grampus Ris- 

 soanus on the American Coast, 49; 

 Ovo-viviparous generation in Tropi- 

 donotus 121 ; The classification of 

 Post-Cretaceous Deposits, 309,314; 

 The miocene mollusca of the State of 

 New Jersey, 395, 397 ; Determination 

 of the age of rock deposits, 395; 

 Report of Curators, 411; Report of 

 the Professor of Invertebrate Paleon- 

 tology, 425. 



Henszey, Wm, C. Summary of report 

 of the Treasurer. 



Hess, Robert J., M. D. Report of 

 Biological and Microscopical Section, 

 418. 



Horn, George H., M. D. Report of 

 Corresponding Secretary, 407. 



Index to genera, 465. 



Jordan, David S. Note on Achirus 

 Lorentzi Weyenburgh, 339, 389; Des- 

 cription of two new species of fishes 

 from South America, 339, 387. 



Koenig, Geo. A., Ph. D. On Zinc- 

 Manganese Asbestos, 38 ; On a pecu- 

 liar form of Molybdenite, 38; Prelimi- 

 nary note on a new mineral species 

 from Franklin. N. J., 310. 



Lewis, PI. C. Report of Professor of 

 Mineralogy. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 



1887.] 



Leidy, Jos., M. D. Notice of #01116 

 parasitic worms 10, 20; Parasite of 

 a bat, 38; Asplanchna Ebbesbornii 

 157 ; Fossil bones from Florida, 309; 

 Remarks on Hydra, 311 ; Bot larvae 

 in the Terrapin, 393. 

 Librarian, report of, 408. 

 Library, additions to, 437. 

 McCook, Rev. Henry C. Modification 

 of habits in ants through fear of 

 enemies, 27. Prolonged life of Inver- 

 tebrates : Notes on the age and habits. 

 of American Tarantula, 309, 369; 

 Note on the sense of direction of the 

 European ant, Formica rufa, 335 ; 

 Note on Cyrtophora bifurca and her 

 cocoons, a new Orb-weaving Spider, 

 342. 

 Marshall, Frederick Graf. Announce- 

 ment of death of, 335. 

 Meehan, Thomas. Sugar in China, 118; 

 Floral calendars. Cortical peculiari- 

 ties of the plum, 119; OnAphyllon 

 as a root parasite, 154; on the stipules 

 of Magnolia Frazeri, 155 ; Note on 

 Chionanthus, 280; Contributions to 

 the life-histories of plants, 309, 323; 

 The origin of grassy prairies, 392; 

 Report of Botanical Section. 

 Members and Correspondents elected 



during 1887, 43L 

 Meyer, Otto. On Invertebrates from the 

 Eocene of Mississippi and Alabama, 

 (Plate III), 38, 51. 

 Michener, Ezra, M. D., Announcement 



of death of, 294. 

 Mineralogical and Geological Section, 



report of, 424. 

 Munzinger, Pierre, Announcement of 



death of, 81. 

 Museum, additions to, 433. 

 Nolan, Edw. J., M. D. Report of Re- 

 cording Secretary, 406 ; Report of 

 Librarian, 408. 

 Officers, Councillors and Members of the 



Finance Committee, 431. 

 Osborn, Henry F. On the structure 

 and classification of Mesozoic Mam- 

 malia, 280, 282. (abstract), 281,293. 

 Patterson, Joseph, Announcement of 



death of, 297. 

 Porter, Rev. Thomas C. A list of the 



Carices of Pennsylvania, .56, 68. 

 Potts, Edward. Contributions towards 

 a synopsis of the American forms of 

 fresh-water sponges with descriptions 

 of those named by other authors and 

 from all parts of the world, (Plates 

 V-XII), 155; 158. 



471 



Professor of Ethnology and Archeology, 



report of, 427. 

 Professor of Invertebrate Pelseontology, 



report of, 425. 

 Professor of Invertebrate Zoology, re- 

 port of, 426. 

 Professor of Mineralogy, report of, 427. 

 Rand, Theo. D. Report of Mineralogi- 

 cal and Geological .Section, 424. 

 Randolph, Evan. Announcement of 



death of, 392. 

 Randolph, Nathaniel A., Announce- 

 ment of death of, 294. 

 Ravenel, H. W., Announcement of 



death of, 294. 

 Recording Secretary, report of, 406. 

 Redfield, John H. Report of Conserva- 

 tor of the Botanical Section, 422. 

 Report of Biological and Microscopical 



Section, 418. 

 Report of Botanical Section, 422. 

 Report of Conchological Section, 419. 

 Report of Corresponding Secretary, 407. 

 Report of Curators, 411. 

 Report of the Curator of the William 



S. Vaux Collections, 417. 

 Report of Entomological Section, 421. 

 Report of Librarian, 408. 

 Report of the Mineralogical and Geolo- 

 gical Section, 424. 

 Report of the Professor of Ethnology 



and Archaeology, 427. 

 Report of the Professor of Invertebrate 



Paleontology, 425. 

 Report of the Professor of Invertebrate 



Zoology, 426. 

 Report of the Professor of Mineralogy, 



427. 

 Report of the Recording Secretary, 406. 

 Report of the Treasurer, 429. 

 Ridings, J. H. Report of Entomolog- 

 ical Section, 421. 

 Robert, S. R. Report of Conchological 



Section, 419. 

 Rominger, C. Description of a new 

 form of Bryozoa, 10, 11. Description 

 of primordial fossils from Mount 

 Stephens, N. W. Territory of Canada, 

 (Plate I), 12. 

 Ryder, John A. On a tumor in the 

 oyster, 25 ; On the first and second 

 sets of hair germs developed in the 

 skin of foetal cats, 56 ; The placen- 

 tation of the two-toed Ant-eater, 

 Cycloturus didactylus, 115; On the 

 homologies and early history of the 

 limbs of vertebrates, 294, 344. 

 Scott, Wm. B. Change of title of paper, 

 156. 




472 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1887. 



Sharp, B. F., M. D. Report of the 

 Professoroflnvertebrate Zoology, 423. 



Treasurer, summary of report of, 429. 



Trustees of Building Fund, transfer of 

 property to the Academy, 121. 



Tryon, Geo. W. Jr. Report of Conser- 

 vator of the Conchological Section, 

 420. 



Wachsmuth, Chas. and Frank Springer. 

 The Summit Plates in Blastoids, 

 Crinoids and Cystids and the mor- 

 phological relations, (Plate IV), 50, 

 82. 



White, C. A., M. D. On new generic 

 forms of Cretaceous Mollusca and 

 their relation to other forms, (Plate 

 II), 10, 32; On the Cretaceous For- 

 mations of Texas, and their relations 

 to those of other portions of North 

 America, 38, 391. 



Willistei S. Vaux Collections, report of 



Curator of, 417. 

 Wilson, Edmund B. Origin of the 



excretory system in the Earth-Worm, 



49. 

 Wilson, Jas. M. D., Announcement of 



death of, 56'. 

 Woolman, Lewis. Geological results 



of the boring of an Artesian well at 



Atlantic City, N. J. 339. 

 Wright, B. H. Description of new 



Species of Uniones from Florida, 396. 












BlNDir^i^a. JAH25t3T! 



r QH Academy of natural sciences 



1 of Philadelphia 

 A 2 Proceedings 



V.39 



& Modicd 



m 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 

 I CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 





