
HANDBOLND 

 AT THE 



■iifa. 



UNIVERSITY' OF 

 TORONTO PRESS 








12J 



PEOCEEDINGS 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1877 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 

 Joseph Leidy, M.D., W. S. W. Ruschexbergek, M.D., 



Wm. S. Vaox, Geo. H. Horn, M.D., 



J. H. Eedp'ield. 



Editor: EDWARD J. XOLAN, M.D. .t^^ 



PHILADELPHIA: 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



S. W. Corner Nineteenth and Race Streets. 



1877. 




qn 



:7 ^ 



r 



Academy of Natural Sciences of PniLADELPniA, 



February 15, 1878. 



I hereby certify that printed copies of tlie Proceedings for 1877 have been 

 presented at the meetings of the Academy, as follows :— 



Pages 9 to 24 



" 25 to 120 



" 121 to 136 



" 137tolG8 



'• 169 to 184 



" 185 to 216 



" 217 ta264 



" 265 to 280 



" 281 to 296 



" 297 to 312 



" 313 to 360 



13, 1877. 

 17, 1877. 

 22, 1877. 

 26, 1877. 

 10, 1877. 

 17, 1877. 

 24, 1877. 



9, 1877. 



1, 1878. 

 15, 1878. 

 February 12, 1878. 



March 



April 



May 



June 



July 



October 

 January 



EDWARD J. NOLAN, 



Recording Secretary. 



PHILADELPHIA. 

 COLLINS, PRl.NTER. 




LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS, 



With reference to the several ariicles contributed by each. 

 For Verbal Communications see General Index. 



Allen, Joel Asaph. Additional Notes on Bassaricj-on Gabbii 2G7 



Bandy, Will F. On the Cambari of Xorthern Indiana 171 



Burk, Isaac. List of Plants recently collected on Ship's Ballast in the 



neighborhood of Philadelphia 105 



Conrad, T. A. On Certain Generic Names proposed by Zittel, Stoliczka 



and Zekeli 22 



Notes on Shells 24 



Cooke, M. C. The Valsei of the United States 110 



Dall, W. H. Report on the Brachiopoda of Alaska and the adjacent 



shores of Northwest America 155 



Ford, Jolin. Notes Descriptive of a Stone 3Iound and its Contents. . 255 

 Gill, Theo., M.D., and J. F. Bransford, M.D., U. S. N. Synopsis of 



the Fishes of Lake Nicaragua 175 



Goldsmith, Edw. On Laveudulite from Chili, S. A 192 



Hay, Geo. On the Nitrates of Tin, Antimony, and Arsenic 142 



Henshaw, H. W. On Certain Excrementitious Deposits found in the 



West 39 



Jordan, D. S. On the Fishes of Northern Indiana 42 



Jordan, D. S., and A. W. Bray ton. On Lagochila, a New Genus of 



Catostomoid Fishes 280 



Jordan, D. S., and Charles H. Gilbert. On the Genera of North Ame- 

 rican Fresh Water Fishes 83 



Lewis, Jas., M.D. Unionidge of Ohio and Alabama 26 



McCook, Rev. H. C. On the Vital Power of Ants 134 



Mazyck, Wm. G. On a New Species of Helix from Texas 297 



Rand, Theo. D. On the Rocks near Philadelphia 251 



Ryder, J. A. On the Evolution and Homologies of the Incisors of the 



Horse 152 



The Significance of the Diameters of the Incisors in Rodents 314 



Vogdes, A. W. Notes on the Genera Acidaspis, Murchison ; Odonto- 



pleura, Emerich ; and Ceratocephala, Warder 138 



Wilder, Burt G., ^I.D. On the Brain of Chima^ra monstrosa 219 



Yarrow, H. C, M.D. Notes on the Natural History of Fort Macon, 



N. C, and Vicinity (No. 3) 203 





PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1877. 



January 2, 1877. 

 Mr. Yaux, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Thirty members present. 



The deaths of Dr. Jos. Carson and of Mr. F. B. Meek were 

 announced. 



The Academ}^ unanimous1\' voted a presentation of thanks to 

 Wm. P. Jenks, Esq., for a portrait of Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger, 

 painted in oil by Mr. Wm. K. Hewitt. 



January 9. 



Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the chair. 



Thirty-nine members present. 



The resignation of C. H. Howell as a member was accepted. 

 Tlie following papers were presented for publication : — 

 " Unionidffi of Ohio and Alabama." By James Lewis, M.D. 

 " On Certain Generic Names proposed by Zittel, Stoliczka, and 

 Zekeli." By T. A. Conrad. 



On Astrophyllite^ ArfvechonUe, and Zircon. — Dr. Geo. Aug. 

 K(ENiG spoke of the co-occuvrence of adrophylhte., arfoedsonite 

 2 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1871. 



and zircon in El Paso Co., Colorado. The minerals are imbedded 

 in quartz, which is massive and of a gray color, occasionally 

 stained with iron ochre, especially in specimens taken from the 

 surface. Astropliyllite was onlj' known to occur in the syenite 

 of Brevig in Norway, being associated there likewise with arfved- 

 soniteand zircon. This association of the three species on points 

 of the globe nearly opposite to each other is very interesting. 

 The matrix, however, is flesh-colored orthoclase at Brevig and 

 graj' quartz in Colorado. 



1. AMrophyUite. — In elongated prismatic forms, witli a nearly 

 rectangular cross-section, no terminal faces ileveloped. Measure- 

 ments made on acrj'stalof a more complicated form lead to a 

 mono^ymmetric interpretation, while Sclieerer determined the 

 astrophyllite from Brevig to be ortborhombic. Cleavage perfect, 

 parallel to the basal plane, producing micaceous habitus. Hard- 

 ness =3. Specific gravit3^ at 15° C. = 3.3T5. 



B. B. fuses easily to a black globule. With microcosmic salt 

 gives reactions of silica, iron, manganese, titanium. Decomposed 

 b\' hydrochloric and sulphuric acids. 

 Composition — 



SiO^ =34.68 



TiO^ =13.58 



ZrO,, = 2.20 



Fc,()3= 6.56 



AlJO. = 0.70 



FeO =26.10 



MnO = 3.48 



KjO = 5.01 



Nfi.O = 2.51 



Note. — Cnre was takon to oliminate meclianicalh' admixed zircon. The 

 8Pl)!iration ot'ahiniiniiim. titanium, zirconium, was offcctcd bj' a new colori- 

 mctric nicthod (Procecdhig.'* Amoricau Phil. See. Jan. 19, 1870), devised 

 by the speaker. 



2. Arfvechonifc. — Elongated prisms of the form cxP. ocPao. 

 Angle of prism 124^ 80', ofcleavage pieces 124° 5'. Color raven 

 black, lustre submetallic, streak lavender blue, H = 6, Specific 

 gravity at 12° C.=r 3.433. 



B. B. fuses easily. Reaction with the fluxes of silica, iron, 

 manganese, and titanium with diflficulty. Not decomposed by 




ISTT.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11 



acids at ordinary pressure, and ver^- slowlj- in sealed tube. Com- 

 posili<;u — 



Atomistic symbol — 



1 .r 

 I O, 



I 

 J 



3. .^?roo?i occurs in tetragonal forms of the combination P. cxP. 

 P. Basal plane noticed on all crystals. Color, iron-gray ; after 

 treating with hydrochloric acid, of a yellowish flesh-color. 



Specific gravity at 12'' C. ^4.538. 



Composition — 



SiO, = 29.70 

 ZrO; = 60.98 

 Fe^Ojzrz 9.30 

 M2O = 0.30 



100.18 



The material for analysis was boiled as powder with h^'dro- 

 chloric acid, until )io iron was dissolved. This zircon is, therefore, 

 characterized by an exceptionally higli percentage of iron. 



The material for examination was furnished by Dr. Foote. 



January 16. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Fort^'-one members present. 



Fertilization of Broxoallia elata. — The following communica- 

 tion from Dr. Asa Gray was read at his request by Mr. Thos. 

 Meehan : — 



In a paper communicated to the Academy of Natural Sciences, 

 and printed in the " Proceedings" under date of Feb. 8, 1870, Mr. 

 Meehan, upon exhibiting specimens of Broxoallia elata which had 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877- 



flowered in a green house, and set seed in winter, added the fol- 

 lowing among other remarks: — 



" Not onl}- was it a fact that this plant, with such an attractive 

 blue color, perfected every seed-vessel without insect aid, but the 

 stt'ucture of the flower was such that should any insect endeavor 

 to collect the pollen it would only aid, if that were necessary, in 

 self-fertilization. The stigma was nearly tlie length of the corolla- 

 tube; and the anthers, a trifle longer, were arranged closel}' around 

 it. Two of these were inverted just over the stigma, their backs 

 being densely bearded, and appearing to the naked qwq like peta- 

 loid processes, eftectually closing the moulh of the throat. No 

 insect could thrust its p7-oboscis into the tube except through this 

 dense bearded mass, and if it had foreign pollen, would be thor- 

 oughly cleaned by the beard; but the very act of penetration would 

 thrust these anthers forward on to the pistil, and thus aid in 

 rupturing the pollen-sacs, and of course the self-fertilization of 

 the flower." 



I have italicized the passages which attracted my attention when 

 I first read this paper in August, and which led me to make 

 some observations for myself. In consequence, when I afterward 

 read a reproduction of this statement in Xature, I was constrained 

 to address a note to that paper, in which I expressed the opinion 

 that, as to this matter, Mr. Meehan's observation was incomplete 

 and his inference hasty, or some word to tliat effect. I have not 

 the printed note before me. In it I stated, simply and substan- 

 tially, that the throat of the corolla was found bv me to be per- 

 vious by an orifice or chink directly in front of each of these 

 bearded anthers; that a hog's bristle thrust down these passages, 

 al'ter being slightl3' moistened, had the inserted portion well sup- 

 plied with adherent pollen when withdrawn, and that this could 

 be reinserted into anotlier corolla (removed from the plant) w^ith- 

 out being cleaned off l)y tlie beard. I also explained that the 

 structure and collocation of the stigma and upper anthers were 

 such that, in my opinion, the action of an insect would not tend 

 to thrust any pollen of the former upon tlie actual stigma. I 

 ad<led that the flowers in question were freely visited by Ilymen- 

 oplera and Lepidoptera of various sorts. 



In Nature for Dec. 14, I find a rejoinder from Mr. Meehan, which 

 makes (so far as I am concerned) the following points: — 



1. Prof Gray should liave noticed that the original ol)servation 

 was made upon a green-house plant in winter, and should have 

 undersiood the phrase, " i?rou'a//m is not visited by insects, yet 

 seeds al)undantly," to refer onl}- to this condition. 



2. " That even though an insect were as careful in finding the 

 chink as Dr. Gray was in his manipulations with the hog's bristle, 

 the obstruction of tlie mouth in the way it is cannot surely be 

 claimed as an arrangement in favor of cross-fertilization.'' 



Wc need not trouble Nature anv further with this little discus- 




1ST7.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 13 



sion, and any amends that may be due to Mr. Meehan may be 

 made here ; wherefore let me say that I never presumed to ques- 

 tion Mr. Meehan's /oc^ viz., that his plant of Browallia seeded in 

 winter without insect aid, but only his inference^ viz., that Bro- 

 ivallia flowers, on account of their structure, could not or would 

 not in the natural course of tilings be cross-fertilized by insects. 

 This being understood, it will be apparent: — 



1. That I had no occasion to refer to the season in which Mr. 

 Meehan's observation was made and his paper read. Tliat is rele- 

 vant to the matter I had iu hand only as confirming my remark 

 that the observation was incomplete and inference hast}', as the 

 ensuing susnmer showed. 



2. The "obstruction" referred to " surely" was not "claimed 

 as an arrangement in favor of cross-fertilization." The i)oint 

 made was that no obstruction to cross-fertilizatiou exists. 



Mr. Thomas Meehan said lie was quite willing to grant the cor- 

 rectness of Dr. Gray's point that it was not absolutely impossible 

 that Broicallia should be once in a while fertilized by an insect 

 in the way suggested. The great oiiject lie had had in view iu all 

 his papers and remarks on this sulgect, was anything l)Ut to argue 

 against the possibilities of tliese occasional acts. At tiie outset 

 of his course on this question, he found Mr. Darwin saying that 

 clover would not fertilize without the aid of the humble bee; and 

 we know the row of consequences l)uilt on this supposed fact, that 

 if cats no longer existed, clover would disappear from England. 

 Dr. Gray, himself, in playfid earnestness, had suggested as a fur- 

 ther disaster, that if tliere were no old maids to care for the cats, 

 it would be bad for the clover. He had found the whole sul>ject 

 formulated in tliiswise: all plants with inconspicuous, odorless 

 flowers, are fertilized by the wind; all flowers with color, fra- 

 grance, or sweet secretions, are fertilized b}' insects. Sir John 

 Lubbock expressly declares that '' to the unconscious agency of 

 insects, plants owe their color and fragrance." Professor Gray, 

 himself, before the Mount Holyoke Seminary, the year before 

 last, is reported in the Scientific Farmer to have said, " Xature 

 abhors in-and-in breeding; and, like a wise teacher, shuns the prac- 

 tice." It is also on record in the Proceedings, that when he had 

 shown that many composites, Staphyha and others, did fertilize 

 tiiemselves. Dr. Gray objected to the whole argument. His (Mr. 

 M.'s) point had been, that Xature did not shun the practice of 

 self-fertilization in flowers; and not by any means that cross- 

 fertilization by insect agency under no circumstances occurred. 

 Professor Gray, in a recent paper, had modified these views. He 

 there stated his position to be now, that plants ai)hor perpelnal 

 in-and-in breeding; that Nature says to the plant, '"Get cross- 

 fertilized if you can, but anyiiow get fertilized;" and admits that 

 cross-fertilization is the great exception to the rule. Of course, 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



this destroj'S all the practical sequences, from old maids to fertile 

 clover, for at that time it was thought clover had no choice but to 

 wait the pleasure of the humble l)ee. There was now nothing left 

 to him to object to, except the interpretation of these exceptional 

 cases of cross-fertilization. He really thought that " exceptional 

 crossing," as a factor in the development of species, involved 

 more dHHcalties than the "general" theory did ; but that was a 

 question for the future. For the present, he was willing to admit 

 tliat if there was anytliing in the whole context of liis Broicallia 

 communication indicating that it was impossible under any cir- 

 cumstances that an insect should cross-fertilize it, his friend, Dr. 

 Gra}-, had the best of that argument. 



On the Hudson River and Utica Slates of Pennsylvania. — Prof. 

 Persifor Frazer, Jr., remarked that it always must be one of the 

 principal objects of a geological surve}^ to restrain people from 

 investing their capital where there is a practical certitude that 

 they will have no return. Probably' till the end of onr race the 

 investment in pyrites for gold and quartz for diamonds will con- 

 tinue, in spite of the diffusion of knowledge. In Pennsylvania 

 the most fatal delusion is found in the black slate beds of Xo. 3, 

 (or the Hudson River Slates and Utica Slates, called also Matinal 

 hy Rogers). Tliis is because these slates occur frequently at no 

 great geographical distance from the true coal measures, because 

 the slates are unusually black and really somewhat carbonaceous, 

 and because their slickensides frequently impart to certain sur- 

 faces a lustre not unlike that of some Schuylkill County anthra- 

 cite. Rogers (vol. i. p. 239), in speaking of these slates, says : 

 " I regard tlie thin bed of brownish carbonaceous slate" (the 

 equivalent of the Utica Slate of New York) . ..." as probablj'^ 

 representing the" (lower) "margin of the formation." 



Again (Ibid. p. 2fi0), in speaking of the Matinal Slates of the 

 Kittatinny Valley near Dublin Gap, he says : " Some bands of the 

 slate, particularly those l^ing adjacent to the limestone, are highly 

 carbonaceous and of a dark color, somewhat resembling the slates 

 of the coal measures. This analogy in their appearance, notwith- 

 staufling the conclusiveness of all geological evidence to the con- 

 trary, induces many persons not familiar with the geology of the 

 country" (sic.) "to suppose tliat the formation may actually con- 

 tain roo/. For the last fifty years" (185S) "excavations have 

 from time to time been made at various places in tlie valley, in 

 the confident belief that coal will be discovered, and thougli in 

 every instance unsuccessful, tiiey are still occasionally renewed." 

 The same work (p 472) reaffirms the same view with regard to 

 the place in the series of this black belt. 



On ]). 4S() Mr. Rogers says: "At Copeland's Mill" (Kishaco- 

 quillas Valley) " the lower i)cds of the slate are so black as to 

 iiave seduceil proprietors into an unavailing search for coal. It 

 is the matinal Ijlack slate, and of course cannot indicate coal." 




18TT.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15 



Nevertheless these attempts continue to succeed each other in 

 spite of the advice of experts. Indeed the projector of such an 

 enterprise frequent!}' regards as impertinent intrusion the well- 

 meant warning which might save him from pecuniary loss. 



A recent instance of the effect of these delusions is to be 

 found in a tunnel driven l\v Mr. Gosherd, of Franklin County, 

 into the hard slates which form a terrace along the side of 

 the North Mountain close by Franklin Furnace. Mr. Gosherd 

 first became aware of the existence of "a treasure'''' on his pro- 

 perty through a dream, in which he seemed to be standing in 

 a certain field of his farm and at a point which he was after- 

 wards able to find without difficulty. On awaking he told his 

 dream to the members of his family, and lost no time in repair- 

 ing to the spot indicated. As he says, "at the first stroke of 

 the spade black dirt was turned up, and at a short distance below 

 the surface, coal was found equal, in the opinion of a coal operator 

 from Harrisburg, to the best Lykens Valley coal." It occurred to 

 Mr. Gosherd that as the point of this discovery was on the sharply- 

 sloping flank of the mountain, it would be advisable to drive a 

 tunnel across the rocks from the base of the terrace. He has thus 

 executed a very creditably-cut tunnel, some 330 feet long, partly 

 by hired labor, but principall}' by his own, at a cost of about 

 $1500. The heading of this tunnel was in the black stratum 

 which was wrought by the first preliminary excavation. The 

 rocks which were passed through were hard, not very fissile bands 

 of one or more inches in thickness, except the last stratum, which 

 was a band of pulverulent argillaceous matter inclosing a hard 

 mass of slate. 



Various specimens were selected and submitted to approximate 

 anah'sis: — 



ALA hard dark slate, much intersected by quartz veins, both 

 large and small, from the heading of Gosherd's tunnel, half a mile 

 K. E. of Franklin Furnace. 



A 2. Tlie same brayed in the iron mortar and panned to sepa- 

 rate the finer quartz particles and concentrate the carbonaceous 

 matter. 



B. Black argillaceous slate or "horse" in the middle of the soft 

 stratum in which Mr. Gosherd's tunnel heads. 



D. Soft pulverulent stuff called "coal" b}' Mr. Gosherd, ten feet 

 from heading of tunnel 



The coarse powder was first heated three hours to 120^ Cent, 

 and weighed, then successively reheated to the same temperature 

 till no loss of weight occurred. The covered crucibles were 

 gradually raised to full redness and then kept for three minutes 

 at a white heat, to ascertain tlie amount of volatile organic matter. 

 The carbon was ascertained by difference after the calcination of 

 the residue. The followinsr is the result : — 




16 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[18YT. 



( Hysrroscopic 

 ( moisture, 



( Volatile 



\ organic matter, 



Ash, 



Carbon (by loss), 

 Sulphur, 

 Metallic iron. 



Al. 

 0.05 



5.76 

 91.40 



Per Cent. 

 A3. 



0.55 



8.89 



B. 

 2.33 



4.40 



D. 



1.58 



3.99 



! 91.40 i 62.52 i 90.87 i 

 I I Light ] 



Brick-red. (Brick-red. (cream-pink. ( 



Brick-red 

 2.79 

 3. 40 



7.84 



28.04 



90.35 

 Light 

 pink, (cream-pink. 

 2.40 4.08 



Supposing all the sulphur united to the iron to form pyrites, 



we would have — 



Per Cent. 



Iron pyrites, . . . . • • 6 49 



Iron as free oxide and as basic constituent of ash, . 4.81 



In the above results several things are worthy of remark. First, 

 the amount of carbon wiiich these slates contain is inconsiderable. 

 Even when concentrated by pulverizing and panning, the amount 

 of combustible matter does not reach one-third of the total weight. 

 It may be added that much of this fixed carbon is in the form of 

 grapliite. 



Another point is the comparatively large amount of volatile 

 organic substances, which, in view of the last statement, is quite 

 unexpected, for in those carbonaceous strata in which the carbon 

 is chiefly graphite, the voLatile organic substances are generally 

 reduced nearly to zero. 



The amount of hygroscopic moisture is low in all of the speci- 

 mens, and in the case of A 1 is, of course, without signification, 

 owing to the mode of preparation of the analysis. 



Anthracite from ^''Third-Hill 3Ioiintain," West Virginia. — Prof. 

 Peusifor Fr.\zku, Jr., stated that some specimens of coal from 

 this locality had been subjected b}- iiim to proximate analysis two 

 years ago. The locality was eighteen miles east of lierkeloy 

 Springs or Bath, "West Virginia. At that time the exposures 

 were few, shallow, and much washed in, and the specimens con- 

 sequently not fair representatives of the coal. Since then, last 

 summer, he obtained from Mr. Pendleton, of I5ath, specimens of a 

 much better coal collected hy that gentleman from the same 

 vicinity. There are some reasons for ascribing to this coal a 

 hoiizon below the carb<jniferous series, and this lends to its con- 

 stitution additional interest. The following is an analysis of it : — 




ISTT.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 



p. e. 



Hygroscopic moisture 



Volatile hydrocarbons . 

 Ash (light gray) . 

 Free carbon (by difference) 

 Sulphur (probably trace) 

 Iron (under 1 p. c.) 



. 0.21 

 . 7.06 

 . 5.3") 

 . 86.78 

 not determined 

 not determined 



The lustre resembles that of some Schuylkill Count}- anthracite. 



January 23. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Fifty-eight members present. 



January 30. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty-one members present. 



The resignation of F. W. J. Wylie as a member was read and 

 accepted. 



The following papers were presented for publication : — 



" On Certain Excrementitious Deposits from tlie West." By 

 H. W. Henshaw. 



" The Yalsei of tiie United States." By M. C. Cooke. 



In conformity with Art. Ill, Chap. V, of the By-Laws, Jos. 

 AYillcox, Wm. S. Taux, Rev. E. R. Beadle, Jos. Leidy, Clias. F. 

 Parker, W. S. W. Ruschenberger, E. Goldsmith, Persifor Frazer, 

 Jr., Wm. H. Doughert}-, Theo. D. Rand, Clarence S. Bement, and 

 Chns. C. Phillips were constituted tlie Mineralogical Section of 

 the Academy of Xatural Sciences of Pliiladelpliia. 



On Copper-heariiig Rocka of the Me^tozoic Formation. — Prof. 

 Persifor Frazer, Jr., remarked that the existence of copiJcr in 

 the shales and sandstones of the Mesozoic era has long heen 

 known, and man}' of the copper industries derive tlieir material 

 from sucli sources. The whole of the band of micaceous and 

 specular iron ores which lies along the northwestern border of the 

 New Red Sandstone is saturated with copper salts, and cuprife- 

 rous strata are frequently found among the rocks of the central 

 portions of the basin. 



One of the latter recentl}' discovered lies about five miles east 

 of the town of GettyslMiig, at the hamlet of Bonnaughtou or 

 " Bunnytown," as it is pronounced. 




18 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [187T. 



About 300 3'ards south of Mr. Liver's house, in a fleld, is an 

 excavation made in Sept. 187fi. While cutting off tlie corn, 

 numbers of outcrop specimens of malachite were observed strewed 

 over the surface of tlie ground. The rocks here are very much 

 broken. Tlie most liomogeneous of them consist of a red sand- 

 stone, which is hard and compact, regarded in large blocks, but 

 the latter are intersected by innumerable cleavage planes. 



The general dip is about N.W. 30°. The cupriferous strata are 

 about one foot thick, while the claj' and rocks both above and 

 below this are much impregnated with copper. Some of the 

 accompanying rock appears to be calcareous, with small prisms 

 of perfectly transparent quartz. 



In the sandstone are pits showing the section of cubes of 

 pyrite more or less hydroxidized. 



Tlie strike of these cupriferous measures seems to extend at 

 least a mile on either side. 



The portion which might be called a bed vein of copper ore 

 was, as is said, about 1 foot thick. Tiiat is to say, that the 

 decayed argillaceous material composing this foot was sufficiently 

 green to render it worthy of being called an ore. 



This seam was selected and averaged, and submitted to three 

 determinations of the contained copper. 



The following is the record : — 



p. c. 



Insoluble silicious residue 79.73 



Sf'squioxide of iron present (over 5 p. c.) . not determined 

 Copper by electrolysis S.G.j 



While on this subject, it may not be inappropriate to say one 

 word as to tiie readiest methods of deterniinin<j copper. 



Of the various methods of indirect determination, but one was 

 selected (viz., that of Rose) for comparison with tlie results 

 obtained by precipitation of metallic copper on a tared platinum 

 dish. 



The results follow : — 



n)y Rose's metbod' 2.5.")) 



Cu Jby Pfafs nictliod^ 2.40 V 2.5 



(l)y Luckow's method^ 2.65) 



The difficulties experienced in the practical use of the second 

 of these metiiods, when a large number of analyses are to be 

 undertaken in a limit(,'d time, are very great. The solution of 

 the zinc in a liquor strongly saturated with salts is slow and 

 irregular; towards the close of the operation, small pieces of 



' Preriiiitatini: in acid solution by sulpbydric acid, and igniting with 

 excess of suli)liiir. 



2 Preciiniatint; m acid solution by zinc. There was a slight loss of 

 copjior in this analysis. 



» riecii>itiiting by the battery in acid solution. 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



undissolved zinc are likely to be commingled with the granular 

 copper, and not to be separable therefrom ; if the solution be 

 kept in contact with the deposited copper until the analyst is 

 assured that the zinc is all dissolved, part of the copper is sure to 

 go into solution. 



For these reasons, one of the worst processes for rapid copper 

 determination is the production of metallic copper by means of 

 reduction b}- zinc. A modification, or rather a suite, to this 

 process is that by Steinbeck, which, with another, took the prize 

 offered b}' the Mansfield Copi)ei' Works. 



It consists in dissolving the copper precipitated by zinc in 

 nitric acid, and titring with C3'anide of potassium. 



For practical purposes, and whenever a battery is to be had, 

 the electrolytic method seems more rapid and exact. 



To recapitulate : — 



1st. 2d. 



Insoluble residue 79.73 78.11 



Iron sesquioxide over 5 p. c. 



Metallic copper (Rose's), 3.55; (Pfof s), 2.40 ; (Lnckow's), 2.65. 



Contamination of Drinking Water. — In connection with the 

 contamination of potable water and the manner in which such 

 contamination may manifest itself. Prof Persifor Frazer, Jr., 

 presented the following partial examination of the well-water 

 used at the parsonage of St. James the Less. The priest of this 

 church. Rev. Robert Ritchie, having noticed that the water from 

 the well was at times fetid and nauseatiug, brought about three 

 gallons for inspection. The Avater was collected, according to 

 advice, in a demijohn previously well washed out with the same 

 water. It was collected early in the morning of a day in April, 

 1874. It was fairly clear. Upon examination it yielded : — 



]\Ieclianically suspended matter 



Precipitate after evaporation to one-third of 



its oriijinal volume ..... 

 Total dissolved matter dried at 120° Cent., 



11.344 grammes' 



Volatilized at a red heat .... 



The water emitted an offensive odor after standing in a warm 

 place twent3'-four hours. It assumed a yellow tint and gave an 

 acid reaction wlicn reduced by evaporation to one-half its volume, 

 shortly after "Nvhich a bulky yellow precipitate was thrown down. 

 "When reduced to 30 or 40 c.c. bunches of acicular white crystals 

 began to be deposited. On ignition, an intensely foul odor was 

 given off. Residue chieflj^ iron sesquioxide. 



' The determination of the total dissolved matter hero given must be 

 regarded as somewhat in excess of the amount actually present in the 

 water. 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [18Y7. 



The well is situated about one hundred yards from the grave- 

 yard of tlie church, and between it and the river. Between the 

 burial-ground and the river the ground slopes gradually. Since 

 tlie fall of 1874, the water has been purer, but many cases of 

 diphtheria have occurred at various times in the rector^'. 



Dr. Leidy remarked that his attention had been repeatedly 

 directed to an impurity in our drinking-water differing from tliat 

 usually mentioned. It often conspicuously appeared in the other- 

 wise clear water when first drawn from tlie h^'drant into a wiiite 

 basin or a tumbler, as diffused brownish or yellowish flakes. 

 Thaugli comparatively light, they soon settle to the bottom of the 

 vessel. Wiien first noticed he supposed that the}' ^^;ere fragments 

 of decaying woody fibres. On microscopic examination, he thought 

 that he had recognized them to be largely composed of the cast- 

 insfs of worms mingled with remains of confervit and animalcules. 

 The source of these he suspected to be the soft mud at the bottom 

 of our reservoirs. This mud rapidly accumulates in the latter 

 from the sediment of the Schuylkill water, and is a favorable nidus 

 for the development of worms, various animalcules, and the growth 

 of algous plants. He had often observed such mud colored 

 bright red from the multitude of worms jiarlially buried in it 

 with ti»e tail ends protruded and vibrating. The mucus secretions 

 of the worms mingled with mud particles form tubes, and it is 

 these wliicli he thought he had recoguized as forming most of the 

 flakes in the drinking-water. The more frequent cleansing of the 

 reservoirs from the accumulating sedimentary mud. Dr. L. thought, 

 would promote the purity and healthfulness of the water. 



On Eozoon. — Dr. Leidy directed attention to the large and cha- 

 racteristic specimen of Eozoon Cnnadense, presented this evening 

 b}' the Geological Survey of Canada. 



For tlie inforuiation of those not familiar with tlie object. Dr. 

 L. stated that it was regarded by many of the l)est zoologists as 

 of animal origin, and as sucii liad e.\cited much interest from its 

 being the oldest known fossil. It was found in the Laurentian 

 rocks of Canada, and is considered to be the remains of a coral- 

 like Ivhizopod. Dr. L. was himself not fully convinced of its 

 animal nature. 



On the Diaphrarjm. — Dr. Leidy remarked that the elevation of 

 the dome of tlie iiuman diaphragm was usually as high as the fifth 

 rib, but tiiat in the subject, used during his present anatomical 

 course at the University, a well-formed muscular male, the dia- 

 |)hragm on the right side was elevated to a level with the anterior 

 fxtrennty of the third rib. 




18T7.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



The following were elected members: C. W. Cross, J. T. Mont- 

 gomeiy, Jos. M. Stoddart, Dr. H. Ernest Goodman, Dr. Thomas 

 Biddle, Jr., Wm. Q. Audenried, Dr. Jos. Tliomas, Dr. I. S. Moyer, 

 and Clarence C. De Lannoy. 



Dr. J. M. Da Silva Coiitinho, of Rio Janeiro, Dr. Wra. A- 

 Mintzer, U. S. N., Prof. L. Nicholsky, of St. Petersburg, Gen, A. 

 Gadolin, of St. Petersburg, Xikolai v. Kokscharow, of St. Peters- 

 burg, and Prof. L. de Koninck, of Bruxelles, were elected Cor- 

 respondents. 



The following papers were ordered to be printed : — 




22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



ON CEETAIN GENERIC NAMES PROPOSED BY ZITIEL, STOLICZKA, AND 



ZEKELI. 



BY T. A. CONRAD. 



I propose the following rectification of generic names pub- 

 lished b}- Zittel in his description of Gosaii-Fossils : — 



Table 1. Fig. 1. Diplocoucha, Con. = Fistulana tiibulosa, Zit. 

 " " " 3. Leptosolen, Con. = Siliqua Petersi, Reus. 



= Panopsea frequens, Zit. 

 = Pholadoniya granulosa, Z. 

 = Tapes exiniia, Zit. 

 = Tapes Martiuiana, Math. 

 = Tapes fragilis. 

 = Circe discus, Math. 

 = Circe concentrica, Zit. 

 = Cj'pricardia testacea, Zit. 

 ^ Cardita granigera, Gtimp. 

 = Cucullfea Austriaca, Zit. 

 = Cucullsea crossetesta, Zit. 

 = CucuUwa Chiemiensis, Giimp. 

 = Cucullppa gosauviensis, Zit. 

 = Cuculljea bif\isculata, Zit. 

 = Cucullsea semisulcata. Math. 

 = Area Swabeani, Zit. 



After an examination of Stoliczka's " Paleontology of Southern 

 India," I would suggest the following rectification of generic 

 names contained therein : — 



= Aporrliais securifera, Forbes. 



= Alaria Parkinsoni, Mant. 



= Alaria papilionacea, Goldf. 



= Alaria tegulata, Stol. 



= Ahiria ghmdina, Stol. 



= Alaria acicularis, Stol. 



= Athleta purpuriforrais, Forbes. 



= Athleta scrobiculata, Stol. 



= Rapa Andoorensis, Stol. 



= Tudicla eximia, Stol. 



^ Rapa nodifera, Stol. 



= Rapa cancellata, Sow. 



= Rapa cancellata, Sow. 



= Rapa corallina, Stol. 




1817.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



Vol. III. 



Plate I. 12-13. Leptosolen, Con. = Siliqua limata, Stol. 



" II. 8-9. Liopistha, = Poromya lata, Forbes. 



" " 10-11. Liopistha, = Pholadomya caudata, Rom. 



" " 8. Liopistha, = Poromya globulosa, Forbes. 



" III. 2-4. Liopistha, Meek, = Poromya superba, Stol. 



" IV. 3. Legumcn, Con. = Tagelus Albertinus, d'Orb. 



" VI. 1-5. Cyclotliyris, Con. = Cyprimeria Oldhamiana, Stol. 



" " 17-19. Aphrodina, Con. = Cytherea Garudaua, Stol. 



" VII. 7-9. Aphrodina, = Cytherea (Callista) laciniata, 



Stol. 



" " 10-17. Aphrodina, = Cytherea lascula, Stol. 



" " 18-20. Aphrodina, = Cyth. (Callista) minutula, Stol. 



" " 21-23. Aphrodina, = Cyth. (Callista) vagraus, Stol. 



" " 80-31. Aphrodina, = Cyth. (Callista) discoidalis, Stol. 



VENIELLA, Stol. 



As Sloliczka has Tvithout sufficient reason given this name in 

 preference to that of Venilia, Morton, and as his first reference is 

 to that of another genus, it may stand as the type of Veniella. 



Plate VIII. 4-9. Veniella (Venilicardia) obtruncata, Stol. 

 Venilia, Morton. =Cyprina cristata, Stol. 

 Venilia, =Cyprina Forbesiana, Stol. 



Venilia, =Cyprina (Cicatrea) cordialis, 



Stol. 

 Cretocardia, Con.=Cardita Jaqnenoti, d'Orb. 

 Liopistha, Meek, =Poromya globulosa, Forbes. 

 Liopistha, =Porom3'a lata, Forbes. 



? Cyprimeria obesa, d'Orb. 



Idonearca, Con. =Macrodon (Grammatodon) 



Japeticum, Forbes. 

 " XXIV. 2. Inoperna, Con. =Modiola flagellifera, Forbes. 



Regarding the generic names in Dr. Zekeli's paper on the Gas- 

 teropoda of the Gosau strata, I would propose the following: — 



Plate XII. 4. Anchura Con. = Rostellaria calcarata, Sow. 

 " XIII. 1, Anchura, = Rostellaria Partschi, Zk. 



" XIV. 5. Rostellites, Con. = Voluta prolonga, Zk. 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [ISTT. 



NOTES ON SHELLS. 

 BY T. A. CONRAD. 



CRYPTODON, Con. 

 C. Nuttallii, Con. 



Luti'drid maxima, !Midd. 

 Schizotlimrus Nuttallii, Con. 

 Tresus maxinnis. Gray. 



This shell, described in 1837, should retain tlie generic name of 

 Cryptodon, as Gray has published it, because the Gryptodon of 

 Turton, 1822, was superseded by Thyasira, Leach, 1818. The 

 latter genus was established by the quotation of Lamarck of 

 Thyasira under the head of Tellina Jlexuosa^ the tj'pe of Gryp- 

 todon^ Turton. Gray afterwards names the Lutraria maxima of 

 Middendorf Tresus; but Carpenter and others unite the latter 

 with Gryptodon Nuttallii hy means of great numbers of specimens 

 of both varieties. The synonymy will therefore be as above. 



GLYCIMERIS, Klein. 



Panopsea^ Menard de la Groye, is a synonj'm of this genus, as 

 stated by Adams, but some conchologists have supposed that 

 Klein's figure represented Gyrtodaria^ Daudin. The figure is 

 larger than Gyrtodaria, of the Glycimeris outline, and especially 

 the habitat, according to Bonani in " Iberico mari," is not that of 

 the arctic Gyrtodaria. The second species of Klein is Ghama 

 glycimeris^ Aldrovandi, "ex mari Hispanico" (Pa/JOjj«a Aldro- 

 vandi, Lam.), 



Panomya^ Gray, is the generic name for Panoposa. 



CYMBOPHORA, Qabb. 



This genus appears to characterize the upper Cretaceous strata 

 in California, Xew Jersey, and Xorth Carolina, leaving no suc- 

 cessor in the Eocene. I had supposed it differed in some respects 

 from Velcda, Conrad, but I am now convinced that it is essen- 

 tially the same genus. I may add to Gabb's description that the 

 palleal line has a small rounded sinus. 



Cymbophora lintea, Conrnd. 

 Veleda lintea, Connid. 




18TT.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25 



SCAMBULA, Conrad. 



Mr. Gabb- has referred this singular genus, of the family 

 Grassatellidde, to his Anthonya, iu which opinion I do not agree. 

 Anthony a is a bent shell, the other is not; while the former has 

 no Literal teeth, the other has two long linear lateral teeth. 




26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



UNIONID^ OF OHIO AND ALABAMA. 

 BY JAMES LEWIS, M.D. 



In the Ohio River and its tributaries are found a very consider- 

 able number of species of Unionidse, a large proportion of which 

 are regarded as types by means of which similar shells of other 

 regions are identified. In Central Alabama occur about thirty 

 species of Unionidae that are identical with or equivalent to a 

 similar number of species of the Ohio drainage. Possibly an 

 exhaustive study of the species of Tennessee would increase this 

 list to forty or more species. The occurrence of identical and 

 equivalent species in the two S3'stems of drainage suggests the 

 probability that a careful scrutiny of some of the equivalent spe- 

 cies may afford some assistance in simplifying the study of these 

 things b}^ indicating synonymy hitherto unsuspected. The iden- 

 tical species of the two regions, so far as have been compiled, are 

 embraced in the following list: — 



Unio Anodontoides, Lea. U. obliquus, Lam. 



U. camptodon, Say. U. pleuus, Lea. 



U. cornutus, Barnes. U. pyramidatus, Lea. 



U. crassidens. Lam. U. rectus, Lam. 



U. ebenus, Lea. U. securis, Lea. 



U. elegans, Lea. U. tuberculatus, Barnes. 



U. metanever, Raf. Margaritana coniplanata, Barnes. 



Of the shells common to the Ohio and Alabama drainage it ma}' 

 be unnecessary to speak at length of more than one species, U. 

 cras.Hidenx^ Lam., which may be considered the type of a some- 

 what numerous group of species of shells of solid structure, dark 

 epidermis, dark purple nacre, and having folds more or less strongly 

 indicated on tiie posterior slope. Tlie following are some of the 

 more prominent members of the group: — 



U. pliciferus, Lea. Mexico. U. Monroensis, Lea. Lake Monroe, 



U. incrassatus, Lea. Chattahoochee Florida. 



Kiver, Ga, U. Forbesianus, Lea. Savannah 



U. fraternus, Lea. Chaltahoochee River, Gra. 



River, Ga. etc. etc. etc. 

 U. Anthonyi, Lea. Florida. 



The distribution of crassidevs seems to extend to many of the 

 more conspicuous rivers of the Gulf States west of Florida ; to all 




isn.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



27 



the principal tributaries of the Ohio. Most of the other recog- 

 nized species of this group are quite local, and do not occupy an 

 extensive area. There are in this group indications that the 

 future student of sjaionyniy may find niucli to interest him. 



Unio fratemius^ Lea, appears to be simply a variety oiincras- 

 satus, as intermediate specimens of every degree seem to be 

 abundant in the Chattahoochee River. 



Among the most conspicuously equivalent species are the fol- 

 lowino;: — 



Ohio System. 

 U. alatus, Lea. 

 U. brevidens, Lea. 

 U. circiilus, Lea. 

 U. clavus, Lamarck. 



U. Conradianus, Lea. 



U. Cooperianus, Lea. 

 U. gibbosus, Barnes. 



U. glans, Lea. 



U. Kirtlandianus, Lea. 



U. lachrymosus, Lea. 

 U. leevissimus, Lea. 

 U. lenoh', Lea. 



U. luteolus, Lam. 



U. multiplicatus, Lea. 

 U. ovatus, Say. 

 U. parvus, Barnes. 



Alabama System. 

 U. purpuratns, Lamarck. 

 U. peuitus, Con. 

 U. castaneus, Lea. 

 U. decisus, Lea. 

 U. interventus, Lea. 

 U. consanguineus, Lea. 

 U. crebrivittatus, Lea. 

 U. Chattanoogaensis, Lea. 

 U. acutissimus, Lea. 

 U. parvulus, Lea. 

 U. rubellinus, Lea. 

 U. asperatus, Lea. 

 U. subgibbosus, Lea. 

 U. sublatus, Lea. 

 U. Cromwellii, Lea. 

 U. corvunculus, Lea. 

 U. glandaceus. Lea. 

 U. verus, Lea. 

 U. instructus, Lea. 

 U. asper, Lea. 

 U. inflatus, Lea. 

 U. metastriatus, Con. 

 U. compactus, Lea. 

 U. stramineus, Con. 

 U. Claibonieusis, Lea. 

 U. pallescens, Lea. 

 U. Gouldii, Lea. 

 U. Boykinianus, Lea. 

 U. excavatus, Lea. 

 U. granulatus, Lea. 

 U. germauus, Lea. 




28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1817. 



Ohio System. Alabama Ststem. 



U. phaseolus, Hildreth. U. Greenii, Lea. 



U. flavescens, Lea. 



U. simplex, Lea. 



U. trinacrus, Lea. 



U. Foremanianus, Lea. 



U. Woodwardianus, Lea.' 

 U. plicatus, Barnes. U. atro-costatus, Lea. 



U. Elliottii, Lea. 

 U. rnbiginosus, Lea. V. negatus, Lea. 



U. undulatus, Barnes. U. late-costatus, Lea. 



On comparing the shells of the two regions indicated, it will be 

 found generally true that the shells of the Ohio system, especially 

 of that portion north of the Ohio River, attain a more luxuriant 

 development and have a more brilliant epidermis, in which the 

 rays are more numerous and more persistent, than in the shells of 

 Alabama. There are also conspicuous differences in form, even in 

 some of the species that are acknowledged to be identical in the 

 two regions. 



Some of the species that are here presented as equivalents of 

 species of the Ohio system are represented by other analogous 

 forms 6r equivalents in contiguous territor}^ in the same latitude 

 with Central Alabama. 



Unio purpuratus extends westward into Texas and Arkansas. 

 So far as known U.penitus has been reliably quoted only as found 

 in the Alabama River, possibly also in the Coosa River, which is 

 practicall}' the same thing. Unio decisus is said to occur in Mis- 

 sissippi as well as in Alabama. Unio consangimieus, U. crehri- 

 vittatus and U. Ghattanoogaensis are quoted as found in Georgia 

 and Alabama. The equivalents of U. Conradianus have been 

 quoted as occurring in several streams in Alabama. One, U. ru- 

 hellinuH^ also occurs in Georgia. Another, not included in the 

 above list ( U. penicillatus), is found in the Chattahoochee River. 



A shell of this t^'pe also occurs in the Black Warrior River, in 

 which stream also occur other Uniones, whose geographical dis- 

 tribution is nearly the same. The range of the shells of this type 

 in Alabama and Georgia reaches fully across the State of Ala- 

 bama. Whether similar shells are also found in the rivers of Mis- 

 sissippi does not appear in an}^ records that have been consulted 



' Georgia. 




1871.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29 



in the preparation of this paper. Tlirougli correspondence and 

 records the distribution of U. Conradianus is found to reach the 

 northern portions of Georgia and Alabama, a considerable portion 

 of East Tennessee, and a few streams in Kentucky. 



Unio GoopeiHanus^ Lea, besides finding an equivalent in U. 

 asperatus^ seems also to be represented elsewhere in the same or 

 a similar manner by U. pernodosus. U. asperatus occurs in the 

 Coosa, Alabama, and Black "Warrior Rivers, in each of which 

 streams it exhibits local peculiarities, more marked, perhaps, in 

 the Black AVarrior River than in the other two streams named. 



Unio gibbosus, Barnes, is very fairl}'^ represented in the Coosa 

 River by shells having white nacre to which Mr. C. M. Wheatle}-, 

 of Phffinixville, Pa., gives the name U. subgibbosus, Lea. Whether 

 this nomenclature has the sanction of Mr. Lea has not been stated. 

 The tj'pical U. sublafus is found in Uchee Creek, in southeastern 

 Alabama, and also on Uchee Bar in the Chattahoochee River. 

 Specimens identified by records and types have been found in 

 Shoal Creek at Montevallo, Ala. The beaks of the Shoal Creek 

 specimen have undulations such as are found on the perfect beaks 

 of young gibbosus. In another stream near Montevallo (Buck 

 Creek) is found another variety more slender in form, with darker 

 epidermis and nacre, and more decided undulations in the beaks. 

 In the series of specimens that have been examined as recorded 

 above, the near relation of U. sublatus to gibbosus is very clearly 

 shown. Of Unio glans, Cromicellii and coi'vunculus little can be 

 said at this time for the reason tliat but few specimens from any 

 one locality have been examined in this connection. The two spe- 

 cies last named occur at Montevallo and in Xorthern Georgia. 



The shells quoted as the equivalents of U. Kirtlandianus occur 

 in the Cahawba River and in Buck Creek. Mr. Lea quotes only 

 the Cahawba River. The shells are very much alike, the chief 

 differences seeming to be due to age and local influences. They 

 have much the same flattened form as Kirtlandianus, and the 

 undulations on the beaks of the young shells are such as occur in 

 Kirtlandianus ; in outline there are conspicuous differences, though 

 the Alabama shells agree very closely with each other in form 

 character of the epidermis, muscular and palleal impressions, teeth 

 and nacre. 



In the relation of U. asper to U. lachrymosus differences may be 

 observed which are, in many respects, such as might be pointed 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



out in some of the species of Alabama identical with Ohio species. 

 Man}' of the Alabama Uniones that are identical with Ohio spe- 

 cies exhibit peculiarities that one readily and intuitively ascribes 

 to local influences. Some of them are of smaller size ; those spe- 

 cies which in Ohio are beautifully and conspicuously marked with 

 rays, in Alabama are found without rays, or the rays appear only 

 on the umbo and are lost by erosion as the shell matures. Jn 

 other instances the raj's appear only as a periodical phenomenon, 

 a row of distant spots down the posterior angle, disappearing 

 before they reach the margin of the adult siiell. This phenomenon 

 is faintly hinted in many of the shells of Tennessee, and makes its 

 full appearance only in Georgia, Alabama, and other States in the 

 same latitude. Local influences must aflfect every species in a 

 greater or less degree. 



Jn quoting asper as an equivalent of lachrymosus the parallel- 

 ism is suggested and verified b}' specimens of lachrymosus from 

 the Illinois River. In these specimens the forms and colors, and 

 other peculiarities cA asper^^re approximated in a ver^' suggestive 

 manner. The Illinois shells, however, though smaller than Ohio 

 River shells, are larger than the tj^pical asper. U. asper itself 

 varies in different localities, and among its most prominently 

 variable features ai'e its size and roughness of surface. The rela- 

 tions of asperrivius to these shells seem to require that it be 

 mentioned here. Lhrio laevissimvs and U. inflatus are obviously 

 nearl}' related. The chief and most conspicuous difference is in 

 the relative diameter of the two shells. 



Unio lenior^ quoted by Mr. Lea as a Tennessee shell, seems to 

 be represented in the Black Warrior River b}- the female of a 

 small species belonging to the same group with U. penitus, Con. 

 Shells recently received from the Black Warrior fully corroborate 

 Mr. Lea's remark on (J. mefastriatus, Con., at the bottom of 

 page 40 in his Synopsis of 1870, and make its identification com- 

 plete.' This is the female of the same species to the male of which 

 Mr. Lea gave the name U. compaclus. It has been found in the 

 Black Warrior, Cahawba, and other rivers and creeks in Alabama. 

 Mr. Lea's type of compaclus was from Georgia. The shells vary 

 from each oilier in different streams, as is the universal habit of 

 tliis class of mollusks. 



' Conrad's metastriahis is a Black Warrior River shell. 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31 



Unio hdeolus, Lam., does not seem to have been recorded as 

 occurring in any stream much south of the latitude of the Ohio 

 River.^ It may possibly occur in some of the rivers of Kentuck}' ; 

 it is regarded as one of the most variable species occurring in 

 "water north of the Ohio. A lacustrine variety described by Mr. 

 Anthony received the name U. distayis, A nth. 



Mr. Lea in his Synopsis (1870) has put distans in the synonj^my 

 of radiatus. The error was probably accidental. In southern 

 latitudes the tj'pical luteolus is unknown,'^ and in its place are found 

 equivalents to which the following names and local references have 

 been assigned : — 



Unio obtusus, Lea. Chattahoochee U. Gouldii, Lea. Tuscaloosa, Ala. 



River, Ga. U. approximus, Lea. Red River, 



U. Claibornensis, Lea. Alabama La. 



River, Ala. U. Reeveianus, Lea. Alexandria, 



U. stramineus, Con. Various small La. 



streams in Alabama, etc. U. Hydianus, Lea. Bayou Teche, 



U. pallescens, Lea. Black Warrior La. 



River, Ala. 



In the pi'ogress of the investigations made in this behalf, speci- 

 mens of this group of shells have been carefully compared, and a 

 liberal interpretation has been given to records of species. 



It has been suggested that Unio ca//osws, Lea, may find a fitting 

 place in the above list of equivalents of luteolus. Of the value of 

 callosus B,s a species, nothing is known beyond the record. The 

 relations conjectured between U. ynuJtipHcat us a.nd U. Boykinianus 

 may not be confirmed. Between U. midtipHcatus and U. Eightsii 

 from Texas, relations are more apparent. U. Boykinianus has a 

 somewhat wide distribution, being known to occur in the Ala- 

 bama and Tombigbee Rivers as well as in the Cha,ttahoochee. 

 Possibly- specimens may yet be found in Louisiana and Texas, to 

 make its relation with multiplicafus more apparent. 



Unio ovatus, Sa}', has probably more intimate relations with 

 southern shells of the same type than the differences in names would 

 imply. U. excavatus^ Lea, found in Mississippi, Alabama, and 

 Georgia, is represented in the Chattahoochee River b\' a diminu- 

 tive form of the same type. The typical ovatus is a triangularly 

 ovate shell, posteriorly truncate, with epidermis nearly devoid of 



' U. luteolus is quoted from Texas, Obs. XL 31. 

 « See Obs. XI. 31. 




32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



raj's. A slightly more rotund form having raj's and often pink 

 uacre is Mr. Barnes's U.venti-icosus. A form still more rotund is 

 Mr. Lea's XJ. occidens, the male of which many intelligent collec- 

 tors believe to be his subovatus ; while U. capax, Green, is a very 

 globose shell, scarcel}' marked with rays, and having the cardinal 

 teeth verj' much compressed and directed obliquely forward, 

 nearlj' parallel with the anterior dorsal margin of the shell. Unto 

 satui', Lea, seems to be very nearly related to capax. Unio Cana- 

 densis, Lea, is apparently very nearly related to occidens. It 

 diflfers by being quite as much compressed as U. cariosus, and 

 nearl}^ of the same form. The beaks are more coarsely undulate 

 than in any other shell of this group. U. Canadensis is probabl}' 

 a northern equivalent of occidens. It occurs in Wisconsin as well 

 as in the river St. Lawrence. 



Uniones of the type of U. imvvus, Barnes. There are on record 

 nineteen species of Uniones which have relations to each other 

 seeming to warrant their association in this group. In geogra- 

 phical distribution they extend OA-er a large area north and south 

 in the United States and both sides of the Mississippi River. 

 The tj'pical parvus is known to exhibit considerable diversity of 

 appearance, form, and size. One varietj^ of this species found in 

 Indiana is so remarkable for its luxuriant development as to have 

 acquired the familiar designation of "The big parvus of the 

 Wabash." Tliis variety differs also from the type by having the 

 nacre sometimes tinted of a salmon color, the nacre of the type 

 being white. Most of the species of this group also have white 

 nacre. Two, however (possiblj- having more intimate relations 

 with U. glans, Lea), have purple nacre. These are the species 

 Cromwellii and corvunculus. Another species has been character- 

 ized as having salmon-colored nacre, namelj', U. Bealei. Two 

 other species, clearly- members of this group, have been described 

 as having "purplish" nacre; these are granulatus Q.nA germanus. 

 The soft parts of three species have been found to exhibit, near 

 the branchial opening, a black, spongy, flesh}' mass that Mr. Lea 

 calls "caruncle." This has been observed only in females of 

 parvus, granulatus, and paulus. The differences of form usually 

 observed in the sexes are less conspicuously observable in parvus 

 (as found in the Ohio system of drainage) than in some of the 

 other species of this group. Unio pygmseus is probably figured 

 from a male specimen ; the female may possibly have the form of 




18T7.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 33 



granulatus. Shells from North Carolina distributed by Mr. C. 

 M. "Wheatlej^ to his correspondents under the name of granulatus 

 seem to warrant this conjecture. 



That Mr. Lea regards some of the forms included in this group 

 as being possibly S3'non3'ms of others, is indicated in his Synopsis, 

 1870, p. 49, foot note 3; and also in his remarks on species in 

 "Observations" YIIL, 41 and 43. 



Two species, members of this group {paulus and corvinus)^ are 

 credited to the Chattahoochee and Flint Rivers in Georgia. It 

 should be remembered that these two streams are parts of one 

 system of drainage, and that they have many species of Uuiones 

 in common. 



The species Johannis and Jlavidulus may ultimately prove not 

 to be legitimate members of this group, as they exhibit peculiari- 

 ties of form in which they resemble each other, while they are in 

 some respects quite different from all the other species with which 

 thej' are here provisionally associated. 



In compiling notes on a group of species, it might by some 

 persons be thought excusable to suggest sj'nouymy in those 

 instances in which strong resemblances are apparent. But syn- 

 onymy is not to be hastily inferred, as there are also differences^ 

 some of which are too important to be ignored. The most that 

 can be done at present is to call attention to groups of species in 

 a manner to encourage a thorough study of them. It seems also 

 necessary that inquiries should be directed particularly to geo- 

 graphical distribution and the local association of species; also 

 to the local influences that modify species, and to the extent to 

 which a species may be susceptible to modifying influences. 

 Sj'nonymj'' and the hypothesis of evolution may contend for the 

 result in the final treatment of this and other groups of Uniones. 

 To aid the student who may desire to know what has been 

 recorded of the group of species now under consideration, the 

 following table of references is appended: — 



JJnio paryns, Barnes. Ohio, etc' American Jour. Sci. 1823. Lea's Ob- 

 servations — (soft parts) VII. 39 ; (Embr3'0s) VII. 39; (Miscellaneous 

 References) I. 23, 20, 27, 34, 54, 97, 213 ; II. 55, 128 ; III. 53, 69, 70, 

 85 ; IV. 35 ; V. 18, 25 ; VI. 20 ; VIII. 44, 101 ; IX. 37 ; XI. 34, 31, 54 ; 

 XII. 15, 19, 69, 71, 75, 87 ; XIII. 42. 



' Besides having been found in the Ohio River and its tributaries, Mr. 

 Lea in his " Observations" quoies parvus as occurring in Mississiiipi (VII. 

 39) and in Texas (XI. 31). 




34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [181 7- 



U. granulatus, Lea. Big Prairie Creek, Ala. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. VI. 



48 ; Obs. XI. 53 : Synopsis, 1870, p. 49, foot note 2. 

 U. germanus. Lea. Coosa River, Ala. Jour. A. N. S. VI. 49 ; Obs. XI. 



53; (soft parts) XI. 54; (Miscell. Ref.) XII. 45. 

 U. paulus. Lea. Chattahoochee River, Ga. Trans. Am. Phil. Soc. VIII. 



pi. 15, f. 29; Obs. III. 51; (soft parts) X. 38; (Embryo) VIL 40; 



X. 39 ; (Miscell. Ref.) VIII. 26 ; XII. 19, 71, 75. 

 U. corvinus Lea. Flint River, Ga. Jour. A. N. S. VI. 310 ; Obs. XII. 70. 

 U. Johannis, Lea. Connasauga River, Ga. ; Etowah River, Ga. ; Alabama 



River, Ala. Jour. A. N. S. IV. 343 ; Obs. VIII. 25. 

 U. flavidulus. Lea. Columbus, Miss. Jour. A. N. S. V. 97 ; Obs. VIII. 



101. 

 U. Texasensis, Lea. DeWitt Co., Texas. Jour. A. N. S, IV. 359 ; Obs. 



VIII. 41. 

 U. Bairdianus, Lea. Devil's River, Texas. Jour. A. N. S. VI. 361 ; Obs. 



Vin. 43. 

 U. Bealei, Lea. Leon Co., Texas. Jour. A. N. S. V. 204 ; Obs. IX. 26. 

 tJ. corvunculus. Lea. Swamp Creek, Whitfield Co., Ga. Jour. A. N. S. 



VI. 315 ; Obs. XII. 74. 

 U. Cromwellii, Lea. Kiokee Creek, Dougherty Co., Ga. Jour. A. N. S. 



VL 258 ; Obs. XII. 18. 

 U. marginis, Lea. Blue Springs, Dougherty Co., Ga. Jour. A. N. S. VI. 



255; Obs. XII. 15. 

 U. apicinusi Lea. Othcalooga Creek, Gordon Co., Ga. Jour. A. N. S. 



IV. 76 ; Obs. VI. 76. 

 U. ineptus. Lea. Abbeville District, S. C. Trans. Am. Phil. Soc. X. pi. 



15, f. 12, Obs. V. 17; XL 25. 

 U. pygmajus. Lea. Abeville District, S. C. Trans. Am. Phil. Soc. X. pi. 



15, f. 14 ; Obs. V. 18. 

 U. vesicularis. Lea. Lake Ocheechobee, Florida. Jour. A. N. S. VIII. ; 



Obs. Xin. 41. 

 U. minor, Lea. Lakes Monroe and George, Florida. Trans. Am. Phil. 



Soc. IX. pi. 39, f. 3 ; Obs. IV. 34. 

 U. trossulus, Lea. Lake Monroe, Florida. Trans. Am. Phil. Soc. IX. pi. 



40, f. 6 ; Obs. IV. 36. 



Unio phaseolus, Hildreth, as found in northern waters, presents 

 considerable diversitj' of form and appearance, but nowhere loses 

 its identity north of the Ohio. In the Indian Territory varieties 

 are found which exhibit peculiarities which might puzzle an inex- 

 perienced student. Something similar has been found in some of 

 the streams near the southwestern part of Tennessee. In these 

 divergent specimens the characteristic form of the species becomes 

 somewhat obscured, and the rays are capillar}-. They diverge, 

 indeed, from the typical phaseolus in the direction of its southern 

 equivalents, as exhibited in the rivers of Alabama. 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 35 



Unio velatiis, Conrad, which Mr. Lea puts in the synonymy of 

 Foremanianus^ is quoted from " the river St. Fois." Mr. Conrad 

 makes U. simplex^ Lea, a synonym of U. Greenii, Con. Mr. Lea, 

 in his Synopsis (1870), foot note 1, page 43, is evidently of the 

 opinion that U. Greenii and U. flavescens are varieties of one 

 species; an opinion that is clearly entitled to the highest con- 

 sideration. It is possible that some future writer may be able to 

 show that all the Alabama equivalents of phaseolus are entitled 

 to be placed in the same category- with Greenii and Jlavescens. 



Unio plicatus, Barnes,' has a considerable number of southern 

 equivalents, besides the two quoted for Alabama. 



Southern equivalents of U. pi icatus, Barnes, and original locali- 

 ties. 



U. perplicatus, Con. Jackson, La. U. Lincecumii, Lea. Dallas Co., 

 U. atro-costatus, Lea. Claiborne, Texas, and Brazos River, Texas. 



Ala. U. Brazosensis, Lea. Dallas Co., 

 U. Elliottii, Lea. Othcalooga Creek, Texas. 



Geo. U. pauciplicatus, Lea. Austin, Texas. 



Unio hippojyseus, Lea, Lake Erie, seems to be a northern lacus- 

 trine form, entitled to a place as a member of the group. 



U. perplicatus, Con., has a somewhat extensive geographical 

 distribution, and is a very well-known shell. U. atro-costatus 

 Lea, which is sometimes confounded with perplicatus, occurs in 

 the Coosa River. Specimens referable to this species have been 

 taken in the Cahawba. 



U. Elliottii, Lea, seems to be represented in the Cahawba River 

 by shells of the characteristic /'or7?i, but of less size than the type. 

 Shells that would be quite readily identified as U. pauciplicatus, 

 Lea, occur in the Upper Black Warrior River. 



Of U. negatus, Lea, not much needs to be remarked. The spe- 

 cies is set apart from rubiginosus. Lea, out of regard to the pecu- 

 liar undulations of the beaks. The beaks of different varieties of 

 rubiginosus exhibit considerable diversity of appearance. The 

 species is very widel}^ distributed, and assumes a wonderful 

 variety of forms. 



U. undulatus, Barnes, is represented in Alabama by U. late- 

 costatus, Lea, which is credited by Mr. Lea to Tuscaloosa. Shells 



' Mr. Barnes was the first person to describe U. plicatus, though it had 

 been on record, without description, earlier. 




36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [187*7. 



of this type occur in various streams in the vicinity of Selma and 

 Montevallo. Cahawba River, Buck Creek, and Bogue Chitto 

 Creek, are among those remembered. One adult specimen from 

 Bogue Chitto Creek has the characteristic folds, but not the form 

 of a smaller shell of this group ( U. Neislerii, Lea) found in Flint 

 River, Georgia. While the subject is yet fresh, it ma}^ not be out 

 of place to inquire whether U. undulatus is other than an equiva- 

 lent of 2jlic at us? Do the two forms maintain their integrity? 

 And is there any well-attested instance of their occurring in one 

 locality together, each preserving its identity ? 



Referring back to U. plicalus and its equivalents, more espe- 

 cially to those in which the folds have become nearly or quite 

 obsolete, it ma}'^ not be out of place to remark that there is a spe- 

 cimen of unmistakable plicafus from the Ohio River, in the Na- 

 tional Museum at Washington (Smithsonian Institution), entirely 

 destitute of folds. 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 3t 



February 6. 

 The President, Dr. RuscHENBERaER, in the chair. 

 Thirty-seven members present. 



February 13. 



The President, Dr. E.uschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-nine members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : — 



"On the Fishes of Northern Indiana." By D. S. Jordan. 



"On the Genera of Xorth American Fishes " By D. S. Jordan 

 and Charles H. Gilbert. 



"List of Plants recently collected on Ship's Ballast in the 

 Neighborhood of Philadelphia." By Isaac Burk. 



In conformity with Art. III. Chap. Y. of the By-laws, W. S. W. 

 Ruschenberger, E. Goldsmith, Persifor Frazer, Jr., Jos. Leidy, 

 Geo. A. Koenig, H. C. Humphrey, C. P. Krauth, Wm. II. Dough- 

 erty, R. S. Kenderdine, Henry C. Chapman, Alexander Willcocks, 

 and W. G. Piatt were constituted the Physics and Chemistry Sec- 

 tion of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



February 20. 

 The President, Dr, Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Forty-six members present. 



The deaths of Mr. William Struthers, Dr. Elisha J. Lewis, and 

 Dr. Wm. Byrd Page were announced. 



Art. 8, Chap. I. of the Bj'-laws was amended by adding the 

 words, " Provided that no professor or assistant-professor in the 

 Academy shall occupy the position of councillor — those who are 

 ex-officio members of council excepted." 



On the Giraffe. — Dr. H. C. Chapman remarked that, in a verbal 

 communication on the post-mortem examination of a Giraffe, in 

 the Proceedings for 1875, page 401, he described and figured 

 the mode of origin of the great bloodvessels from the ai'ch 




38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877- 



of the aorta. Having lately had the opportunity of dissecting 

 another si)ecimea which died in the Zoological Gardens of this 

 citj'^, he called attention to a slightly different disposition of these 

 vessels. In this case an innominate gave off the riglit subclavian, 

 right vertebral, the left subclavian, and left vertebral separately, 

 and then terminated in the two common carotids. This arrange- 

 ment also differs from that described by Prof Owen, thus illustrat- 

 ing the variability in the origin of the bloodvessels in these animals. 

 The recurrent laryngeal nerve was found as described by the 

 eminent anatomist just mentioned, that is, the lower two-thirds 

 almost completely atrophied, while the upper third came from the 

 pneumogastric just below the superior lar^aigeal. 



On the Habits of Quiscahis j^^^fpureus. — Joseph Willcox 

 spoke of the custom of some ci'ow blackbirds {Quiscalus pwpu- 

 reus) of eating fish, and their method of catching them through 

 the intervention of another animal. 



Last winter when ou the shore of the St. John's River, near 

 Lake Jessup, in Florida, he observed an unusual commotion among 

 the crow blackbirds, which were congregating near tlie water, and 

 anxiously looking into it. Soon a loud splash and noise were made 

 in the vicinity b}' a large bass in making a charge upon his favor- 

 ite food, the small fr}', which, in their frantic efforts to escape, 

 jumped out of the water, and many of them fell upon the land. 



The blackbirds, which were evidently experts at the game, im- 

 mediately pounced upon the small fisli and swallowed them before 

 the}' had time to hop back into the water. Tliis performance was 

 repeated man}' times. 



On one occasion he examined the stomach of a bass in order to 

 ascertain what it had taken for dinner. In it he found a rat that 

 had evidently been imprisoned only a short time. 



February 27. 

 The President, Dr. IIuscuenberger, in the chair. 

 Forty-two members present. 



Frank L. Scribner and Mrs. Mary Wagner were elected mem- 

 bers. 



Prof. Alphonse Favre of Geneva, Prof. Paul De Loriol of Ge- 

 neva, Baron Ferdinand Freiherrn Von Richthofen of Berlin, Dr. 

 Ferd. Yon llochstetter of Vienna, Prof Edouard Desor of Neucha- 

 tel, Prof Ludwig Riitimej-er of Basel, Prof Valerien De Mueller 

 of St. Petersburg, H. Trautschold of Moscow, and Lieut. A. W. 

 Vodges, U. S. A., were elected correspondents. 



The following papers were ordered to be printed: — 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39 



ON CERTAIN EXCREMENTITIOUS DEPOSITS FOUND IN THE WEST. 

 BY H. W. HENSHAW. 



In the A'olume on Zoology, forming one of Lt. Wheeler's reports 

 to the cliief of engineers, several pages are devoted to a discussion 

 of the origin of certain resinous-lilie substances, found in the cre- 

 vices and on the walls of manj- of the rocky canons of the far west, 

 and the conclusion arrived at that these were the excrementitious 

 products of a species of lizard, Eiiphryne obesa. This opinion 

 chiefly resulted from the fact, ascertained by chemical analysis, 

 that these products were composed whollj' of vegetable matter; in 

 view of which fact the original supposition that they had been 

 made by bats was abandoned, the diet of these animals being, as 

 is well known, insectivorous. Hence their origin was attributed 

 to the herbivorous lizard above mentioned, the inaccessibility of 

 many of the spots where the substance was noticed being deemed 

 sufficient proof to negative the possibilit}' of its originating from 

 any other mammal. In a note following, however, it is stated 

 that Prof. Cope believes this excrement to have been produced 

 b}' some small mammals, as the Neotoma. 



As a matter of iutei'est to some, and inasmuch as I learn that 

 the subject has again been brought to notice by the receipt of 

 similar specimens b}' the Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia, which were made the subject of remarks at one of the 

 Society's meetings, I propose offering a few suggestions regarding 

 these deposits, especiall}^ since I believe I can speak with some 

 degree of positiveness as to their origin. 



During the past season, while in the neighborhood of Lake 

 Tahoe, Cal., I had an opportunit}' of examining deposits of an 

 exactlj' similar character, and under circumstances which admit 

 of no doubt in my own mind that their originators are the big- 

 eared rats (Neotoma), as believed by Prof. Cope. 



My attention was directed to these deposits by Mr. II. G. 

 Parker, of Carson City, Nevada, who stated, that, when visiting 

 Cave Rock, on the borders of Tahoe, some ten years before, he 

 had found the depressions and crevices of the rock to be inhabited 

 hy large numbers of a rat, which he described as having large ears 




40 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [187Y. 



and a busby tail. These characteristics point with certainty to a 

 Neofonia, probably N. cinerea. 



Incidentally he mentioned the " bituminous-like" deposits, the 

 origin of which be was at a complete loss to understand, but which 

 be finally satisfied himself were the product of these rats. Visit- 

 ing the place myself, I found the deposits as described, but was 

 unable to obtain any proof of the presence of the rats. It is pos- 

 sible they were still there, but, it being daytime, had hidden away 

 in the remote crevices ; or, as is quite probable, that their former 

 haunt is now deserted. In either case the fact of their former 

 occupation of the place in numbers, as attested by Mr. Parker, is 

 sufficient. 



The deposits here vary much in character, and, as any attempt 

 to describe them in detail would occupy too much space, I will 

 mention them briefly. 



Specimens gathered from different parts of the rock showed all 

 the differences between the hard, rounded, pill-like excrements, 

 which no one could mistake the nature of, and the hardened bitu- 

 minous substances, in mass, which bears no resemblance at all to 

 excrement. The former is found on the flat shelves of rock, where, 

 however, it is often partially dissolved by action of the urine, and 

 perhaps too by water. In this form it is not readily recognizable, 

 but a careful examination will show the rounded excrements 

 through the whole mass, especially if it be broken. 



In one case I found a crevice which had been filled up to the 

 depth of at least two feet, with the stalks of weeds, small twigs, 

 and even with a considerable amount of bird's feathers inter- 

 spersed. This mass was evidently the accumulation of years, and 

 had served as a nest. Throughout was a large amount of dry hard 

 droppings, from which the urine had passed, and which was un- 

 mistakable. The urine charged with a certain amount of excre- 

 mentitions matters had filtered through, to form below the singu- 

 lar deposits. 



The "conglomerate masses" then are simpl}' the excrement dis- 

 solved by urine, and carried from the original place of deposit in 

 crevices or on shelves by water, or possibly by urine itself, if in 

 sufficient quantity, and deposited on tlie faces of the walls, where 

 it is perfectly true no animal without wings could reach ; and 

 in many cases, it might be added with equal truth, could not de- 

 posit the masses if they could reach the spot, inasmuch as they are 




ISYT.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41 



sometimes found on the roof of a hollow rock where the}^ trickle 

 from above. 



This will account for the presence of the substance manj^ feet 

 away from the place where first deposited. 



Finall}', all the regions in which these masses of excrement are 

 found ai'e known to be inliabited by the Neotoma. The chemical 

 analysis of these deposits made by Dr. Loew is also entirely in 

 accordance with such an origin, as the Neotoma is eminently a 

 vegetarian. Some of the deposits are unquestionably of great age, 

 and the particular localities may or may not be inhabited at the 

 I^resent time b}' the rats. In many cases they certainly are not, 

 as the erosion and breaking away of masses of the cliffs has in 

 many instances rendered inaccessible points which formerlj' per- 

 mitted free access. 




42 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [ISTI. 



ON THE FISHES OF NORTHEKN INDIANA. 

 BY DAVID 8. JORDAN, M.D. 



The material on which the present paper is based was collected, 

 iu the summer of 1875, in the streams and clear, deep lakes of the 

 northern part of Indiana, by Mr. Caleb Cooke, in the interest of 

 the Peabod}^ Museum of Science, and Dr. G. M. Levette, in the 

 interest of the Indiana Geological Survey. 



The collection consists cliie% of small fislies — darters, sunfish, 

 and minnows — with the young of some larger species. About GO 

 species in all are represented. 



The following are the localities : — ■ 



I. Lakes without outlet to the sea. 



a. Clear Lake, La Porte Co. 

 h. Pine Lake, La Porte Co. 



II. Waters tributary to Lake Michigan through St. Joseph's River and 

 its branch, the Elkhart. 



a. South Fork of the Elkhart, Rome Citj^, Noble Co. 

 J. Tamarack Run, two miles south of Rome City. 



c. Adams Lake, La Grange Co. 



d. Stream at Syracuse, iu Kosciusko Co. 



III. Waters tributary to Lake Erie through the Maumee River and its 



branch, "St. Joseph's of the Maumee." 

 a. Henderson Lake and Creek, Kendallville, Noble Co. 

 h. Sawyer Creek, outlet of Long Lake, Kendallville. 

 c. Outlet of Bixel's Lake, Kendallville. 



IV. Waters tributary to the Illinois River through Kankakee River. 



a. Mill-pond and Creek, Union Mills, La Porte Co. 



"V. Waters tributary to the Upper Wabash through Tippecanoe River. 

 a. Lake Manitou, Rochester, Fulton Co. 

 6. Centre Lake, Warsaw, Kosciusko Co. 

 c. Lake Tippecanoe, Kosciusko Co. 



VL The Lower Wabash (Coll. F. W. Putnam, 1871). 



a. Wabash River, Hutsonville, Crawford Co., Illinois. 

 h. Wabash River, Merom, Sullivan Co., Ind. 



c. Turman's Creek, Sullivan Co. 



d. A few specimens in my own collections from Terre Haute, 



Vigo Co. 




187Y.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



43 



For purposes of comparison I add : — • 



VII. White River and its tributaries— Fall Creek, Eagle Creek, Pleasant 

 Riiu, and Pogue's Run — in the neighborhood of Indianapolis, in 

 Marion Co. ; and Hurricane Creek, in Johnson Co. (Collections 

 of Prof H. E. Copeland and myself in 1874-77). 



It will be noticed that, excepting Nos. VI. and VII., the above- 

 mentioned localities are near together, all within a radius of 50 

 miles, but on five different sides of the water-shed of northern 

 Indiana. A glance at the table below will show, however, that, 

 in all these upland streams and lakes, the fish-fauna is essentially 

 the same, altliough in some cases the waters flow to the Gulf of 

 Mexico, in others to the Gulf of St. Lawrence. On the other 

 hand, between the faunjfi of the upper course of the Wabash River 

 and that of the lower, and between both and the fauna of White 

 River, there will be noticed certain striking differences. 



These facts ma}' be formulated as follows: More species of 

 fishes are common to the head-waters of streams rising on different 

 sides of a water-shed than are common to the upland and lowland 

 courses of the same stream. This subject is ably discussed by 

 Prof. Cope (Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phil., 1868, 242-246). 



In the following table are given, opposite the name of each fish, 

 the number of specimens thereof in the collection from each of the 

 difterent water-basins : — 



PERCIDiE. 



Microperca punctulata, Putn. . 

 Boleichthys eos, Jor. & Copeland . 

 Nothonotus niger (Raf.), Jor. . 

 Ethenstoma flabellare (Raf.), Jor. . 

 Pcecilichthys variatus (Ivirt.), Ag. . 

 Poncilichthys spectabilis. Ag. . 

 Boleosoma brevipinne, f-'ope . 

 Diplesiiim blennioides. Raf. 

 Imostonia shumardii (Grd.), Jordan 

 Alvordius aspro, Cope & Jordan 



P5 



.3 



3 



8 



Common 



75 

 Common 

 Common 

 50 




44 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1877. 



APHREDODERID^. 



Aphredoderus cookianus, Jordan 



SCI^NIDiE. 



Haploidonotus griinnieus (Raf.), Gill 



COTTID^. 



Potamocottus w'ilsoiii (Grd.), Gill . 



ATHERINIDiE. 

 Labidesthes sicculus. Cope 



CYPRINODONTID^. 



Zygoncctes notatus (Raf), J. & C. 

 Zyjjonectt'S dispar, Ag. 

 Fundulus diaphanus (LeS.), Ag. 



UMBRIDiE. 



Umbra limi (Kilt.), (iiiir. 



ESOCIDiE. 

 Esox luciiis, L. .... 



Esox salnioneus, Raf. 



K 





^- K S '^ '> 



z. c 



PERCID^. 



Alvordius phoxocephalns (Xelson), C. «fc J. 

 Alvordius evidcs, J. & C. 

 Perciua caprodes (Raf.), Grd. 

 Perciiia manitou, Jordan . 

 Pleurolepis pellncidus (Baird). Ag. 

 Perca llavescens (Mit.), C, & V. 

 Pomoxys annularis, Raf. . 

 Pomoxys hexacanthiis (C. & V.), Ag. 

 Micropterns floridanns (LeS.), Gill . 

 Micropterus salmoides (Lac), Gill . 

 Cha>nobryttus gulosus ((/. & V.), Cope 

 Ambloplites rupestris (Raf.), Gill . 

 Apomotis C3"anellus. Raf. . 

 Lepomis nephelus. Cope . 

 Lepomis incisor (C. & V.), Cope . 

 Xenotis inscriptus (Ag.), Jor. . 

 Lepomis peltastes, Cope . 

 Xenotis megalotis (Raf.), Jor. . 

 Xenotis nitidus (Kirt.), Jor. . 

 Pomotis aureus (Walb.), Gill . 



15 4 ..!.. 30 



13 8 7 



.. 1 .. 



1 .. .. 



.. 1 .. 



1 .. .. 



6 19 



25 18 27' 



2 1 1 



19 



18 25 

 314 



2 

 11 1 



95 



53 



16 



12 



K 



Common 



150 



5 

 1 

 Common 

 2 Common 



Common 

 Common 



25 

 Common 



25 



23 



171 



20 

 Common 



Scarce 



3 

 Common 



61 Common 



10 



Common 




1877.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



45 



SALMONIDS. 



Argyrosomus clupeiformis sisco, Jor. 



CLUPEID^. 



Dorosoma cepedianum (LeS.), GJill 



CYPRINIDiE. 



Campostoma anomalum (Kaf. ), Ag. 

 Hyborbjmchus notatiis (Raf.), Ag. 

 Hybognatlius argyritis, Grd. . 

 Ericymba l)nccata. Cope . 

 Seraotiliis corporalis (^lit.), Put. 

 Nocomis bignttatus (Kirt.), C. & J 

 Nocomis aml)lops (Raf.), C. & J. 

 Xocomis dissimilis (Kirt.), C. & J. 

 Rbinicbtbys ol)tusus, Ag. 

 Rbinicbtbys atronasiis (Mit.), Ag. 

 Hybopsis stramineus, Cope 

 Hybopsis pUunbcolns, Cope 

 Hybopsis storcrianus (Kirt.), Ag. 

 Hemitremia iieterodon, Cope (?) 

 Lnxilus cornutvis (>Iit ), Jor. . 

 Episema scabriceps, Cope 

 Minnilus spilopteriis, Cope 

 Miunilus analostanus (Grd.), C. & J 

 Minnilus ariommus, Cope 

 Minnihis dinemns, Raf. . 

 Minnilus rnbellus (Ag.), Jor. . 

 Minnilus rnbrifrons (Cope), Jor. 

 Notemigonus americanns (Lac), Jor 



CATOSTOMIDiE. 



Catostomus teres (Mit.), LeS. . 

 Catostomus nigricans, LeS. 

 Erimyzon oblongns (^lit.). C. & J. 

 Erimyzon melanops (Raf.), C. & J. 

 Moxostonia anisuruni, Raf. 

 Moxostoma duqnesnii (LeS.), Jor. 

 Placopbarynx carinatus, Cope . 

 Carpiodes difformis. Cope 

 Carpiodes carpio, Raf 

 Icbthj'obus bubalus, Raf 



SILURIDiE. 



Ictalurus punctatus (Raf), Jor. 

 Amiurus cupreua, Raf. 



K 



> 



Common 

 Common 



3 

 Common 

 Common 

 Common 

 Common 



OK 



Common 

 100 



Common 



25 



75 

 Common 



50 



25 

 Common 

 Common 

 Common 



Common 

 Common 

 Common 

 Common 



Common 




46 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[isn. 



Notes and Descriptions. 



I give here notes on some of the foregoing species, with descrip- 

 tions of those less liiiown, as well as of a few new species which 

 have come to my notice from Indiana, Wisconsin, and Illinois. 



1. Boleichthys eos, Jordan and Copeland, n. s. 



BoleirMhys exilU, Jordan Man. Vert., 1876 (in part— probably not of 



Girard Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1859). 

 Boleichthys eos., Jordan Mss. Nelson Bull. Ills. Museum Nat. Hist. 



Soc, 1876, 34 (partial diagnosis, Wis. and N. Ills.) 

 ? BoleicJithys exilis, Nelson Bull. Ills. Mus. Nat. Hist., 34 (the small 



species or variety noted below). 



Body elongated, slender, somewhat compressed, especially be- 

 hind, rather heavy forwards, with long caudal peduncle. Head 

 rather long, rounded in front, 3| in length, without caudal. 

 Greatest depth of body 5J in length. Mouth small, little oblique, 

 the upper jaw a very little longest. Eye large, 3^ in head, rather 

 high up, longer than snout. 




187Y.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 4t 



Dorsal fins high, about equal, the second highest, rather short- 

 est, the two well separated. Anal moderate, smaller than second 

 dorsal, caudal truncate. Pectorals rather short, reaching about 

 as far as tip of ventrals, not § the distance to vent. Cheeks, oper- 

 cles, neck, and ventral region with small scales. Thoracic region 

 naked. Vent a trifle nearer snout tlian tip of caudal. Lateral 

 line to end of first dorsal on 22 to 26 scales, the total number 

 being 57 to 59. 



Color (in alcohol) dark olive, with darker markings, i.e.^ 10 or 

 12 blackish dorsal spots or bars, and as many short bars across 

 the lateral line nearly opposite the dorsal bars but not continuous 

 witli them. Various sharply defined but irregular black markings 

 on lower parts of sides and on cheeks, etc. Second dorsal, caudal, 

 and pectorals strongly' marked with wav}' black bands as in Cato- 

 notus. In females the first dorsal is similarly specked. In males 

 dark terminal and basal bars are present (blue in life). Top of 

 head dark. A black streak forward from eye, and another down- 

 ward. 



The life colors are very brilliant. The interspaces between the 

 lateral bars as well as most of the ventral region are of a brilliant 

 vermilion. The first dorsal is bright blue, with a broad median 

 band of crimson. 



Fin rays D. ix — 1 1 (rarel}' x — 10 or x — 11) A ii — 7. 



Length 2^ to 3 inches. Habitat: Rock River, Wisconsin, Wis- 

 consin River, Fox River, Illinois, and streams of North Indiana. 



In Fox River (Wis.) Suamico River, and otlier tributaries of 

 Lake Michigan, there occurs in abundance another Boleichthys ; 

 but whether specifically distinct from B. eos or not I am unable to 

 say. My numerous specimens are all smaller, shorter, with large 

 scales. Their coloration is different — plain brown with several 

 large round red spots. This form is tlie B. exilis of Nelson's 

 paper, and partly that of the Man. Vert., but it is very doubtful 

 whether it is Girard's species which was described IVom the Upper 

 Missouri. 



The genus Boleichthys is very close to Pcecilichthya. I know 

 of no character on which to separate the eastern species as IIolo- 

 lepis. The short-arched lateral line and distinct, sub-equal dorsal 

 fins as well as the general form seem to be common to all. 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18t7. 



2. Nothonotus niger (Raf.), Jor. 



This beautiful and rare species lias been noticed bj' few authors, 

 and has been properly described by still fewer. The following 

 seems to be its synonymy: — 



Etheostoma nigra, Raf. Icli. Oh. 1820, 37 (Kentuckj-; a superficial de- 

 scription), 



Nothonotus niger, Jordan Bull. BufF. Nat. Hist. Soc, 1876, 93, 134 

 (nameonljO- ^lan. Vert., 1876, 219 (male specimen). 



P(Bciliclithys niger, Jordan and Copeland Bull. Bntf. Nat. Hist. Soc, 

 1876, 162 (name only). Nelson Bull. Ills. Nat. Hist. Mas. 34 (Wabash 

 Valley). 



Etheostoina maculata, Kirtland Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., III., 276, 1841 

 (description incomplete and partly erroneous). Storer Synopsis, 271, 

 1846. 



Nothonotus maculatus, Agassiz Bull. M. C. Z., 1863, 3 (name only). 



Boleosoma maculatum, LeVaillant, Archives du Museum, 1873. 



Catonotus maculatus, Jordan lud. Geol. Surv., 1874, 214 (name only). 



Pacilichthys camihrus, Cope, Proc. Am. Phil. Soc. 1870, 265 (Cumber- 

 land River, Tenn. Excellent description). 



3. Foecilichthys variatus (Kirt.), Ag. 



Pacilichthys cceriileus (Storer), Ag., and of most authors. 



I have restored Dr. Kirtland's name for this species for the 

 reasons given below. His description of Ellieostoma variata has 

 been variously' misunderstood, as may be seen in its reference to 

 genus Hadropterus by Putnam and Boleosoma by Le Vaillant. 

 The latter author establishes a new genus, Astatichthys^ for P.coeru- 

 leiis and its relatives, because, as assumed, the original type of 

 Poecilichlhys, Ag. {E. variata) is a Boleosoma. Dr. Kirtland 

 ascribes twelve dorsal spines to his variata and ten to his macu- 

 lata. The reverse is the truth, and the two figures were perhaps 

 accidental!}' interchanged, otherwise his descriptions in both cases 

 are characteristic and fairly correct. 



Recentl}' specimens from "Wisconsin, fully identified as P. coeru- 

 leus (Storer) by Profs. Putnam, Cope, Copeland, and the writer, 

 were sent by Dr. Hoy to Dr. Kirtland, who unhesitatingly pro- 

 nounced them to be his own Etheostoma. variata. The following 

 in regard to this point is from a private letter from Dr. Kirtland 

 to Dr. H03' in November, 1870. 



"The Etheostoma variata I first indicated as an undescribed 

 species of fish in tlie 2d Geological Report of Ohio, Nov, 1, 1838. 

 In 1841 I published a description of it in Vol. III. of the Boston 




18VY.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 49 



Journal of Natural History, p. 274. In 1838 I indicated it as a 

 native of the upper waters of the Ohio, and of the Lake Erie 

 waters. 



"Dr. Storer first described the Etheostoma coerulea in the Pro- 

 ceedings of tlie Boston Society of Natural History in 1845. At 

 the time Dr. Storer's description appeared I had no doubt that 

 his fish was the same as my variata, nor have I seen any reason 

 since to change that conclusion. His specimen was probably 

 received preserved in spirits; mine vvas described as it was fresh 

 and alive — conditions affecting extensively their appearance. Sex, 

 season of the 3'ear, spawning, locality, etc., varj' greatlj' the charac- 

 ter of fishes, and none more than tliis Etheof^toma. 



" My figure and description were made out from an old and large 

 mule taken from the spawning bed in the Malioning River, in 

 Youngstown, just as it had discharged its milt. It was lank, 

 dull, and easily captured in its weak and emaciated condition, as 

 all male fish are prone to be at this juncture. The brilliancy of 

 its coloration had not j'et become impaired. In a collection of 

 many specimens 3'ou ma^y find almost each one to differ from the 

 others — some so essentiall}' in their characters as to furnish ncvv 

 species to our 'new species mongers.' 



"To that class of meddling naturalists I belonged at the time 

 I described the Etheostoma eryllirogaater and figured it in Hamil- 

 ton Smith's 'Annals of Science.' It was a variety no doubt of the 

 variata, a female teeming with eggs." 



4. Imostoma shumardii. (Grd.) Jordan. 



Iladropterus shu?nardi, Grd. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1859, 100, 

 Arkansas. Etlieosioma shumardii^ Jord. & Copel. Bull. Buft'. Soc. 

 Nat. Sci. 1876. 



Several specimens from the Wabash River at Hutsonville, are 

 probably referable to this species. The^' appear to represent a 

 new generic tj-pe, for which the name Imostoina is proposed {eimi 

 to move, go — stoma mouth, in allusion to the projectile jaw, which 

 distinguishes this genus from Alvordius). Imontoma may be thus 

 characterized: Lateral line complete; body scaly; no ventral 

 plates (?); upper-jaw projectile; vomerine teetli ; anal as large as 

 second dorsal. Type, specimens fi-om Wabash River supposed to 

 be Hadroplerus shumardii, Grd. 



Specific characters. — Body stout and heav}' forward, com- 

 pressed behind. Depth about 5 in length. Head blunt, broad, 




50 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1877. 



and thick, resembling that of Diplesium (Hyordoma, Ag.), its 

 lengtli 3| in length of body to candal, its depth at pupil half its 

 length. Eye large, rather shorter than snout, 3^ in head. In- 

 terorbital width § of eye. 



Mouth large and broad, the lower jaw wide, a little shorter than 

 upper ; maxillary reaching to eye. Cheeks, opercles, and neck 

 scaly ; chest naked. Abdominal region naked anteriorl}^, scaly in 

 front of vent; no traces of mucronate plates in any of my speci- 

 mens. Scales of body rather large ; lateral line with 56 scales, 

 about 6 above and 11 below. 



Fin raj's, D. x — 15, A. ii. 11. 



Dorsal fins large, first larger than second, which is smaller than 

 anal, the two dorsal fins well separated. Anal fin large, pro- 

 longed behind, farther than the dorsal; in one specimen greatly 

 elevated, reaching to the caudal This is perhaps a sexual feature. 

 Anal spines large, the first largest. Pectorals reaching to tips of 

 ventrals | to vent. 



Color dark, densely but vaguel}^ blotched with darker but not 

 black. Sides with 10 or 12 obscure blotches, the anterior ones 

 bars. A large black spot on base of spinous dorsal behind, and a 

 small one in front. Second dorsal, caudal and pectoral barred as 

 in Alvordius asj)ro. A very strong black suborbital bar, and a 

 faint dark line across muzzle. Length 3 inches. 



Habitat. Wabash River (Jordan), Arkansas River (Grii'ard). 



5. Alvordius phoxocephalus (Nelson), Cope and Jordan. 



Etheostoma phoxoceplKdum, Nelson, Bull. Ills. Mus. Nat. Hist. I. 1876, 

 35 (Illiuois River), Jordan and Copeland, Bull. Buff. Soc. Nat. Sci. 

 1876. 



An additional specimen of this species, in better preservation 

 than any of Nelson's tj^jes, enables me to give a fuller description, 

 and to correct one or two sliarht errors in the original account. 



Body rather slender, compressed, depth 5^ in length, lload 4 

 in length, extremely long, narrow, and tapering ; the snout very 

 acuminate. Mouth large, somewhat oblique, the maxillary reach- 

 ing to eye, the lower jaw unusually narrow and long, scarcely 

 shorter than upper. Depth of head at pupil one-third its length. 

 Eye 4^ in head, about equal to snout ; half wider than interorbital 

 space. Teeth small, on jaws and vomer. Upper-jaw not pro- 

 jectile. 



Cheeks, opercles, and neck witli small scales; those on the 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 51 



cheeks imbedded but numerous ; cliest naked. Yentral line with 

 enlarged plates. Scales small, G8 in lateral line, about 12 above 

 and 14 below. Fin rays, dorsal xii — 13 (xiii — 12, >'elson) A. ii. 9. 

 Dorsal fins well apart, the second about equal to anal ; the si)inous 

 dorsal long ; caudal lunate. Pectorals reaching to tips of ventrals, 

 f to vent. 



Color brownish above, mottled with darker. Lateral line with 

 about 12 blackish spots, which are more or less quadrate, and 

 scarcely twice the size of the eye. Both dorsals, and caudal with 

 narrow dark bars of spots. A black streak on muzzle, but the 

 suborbital bar very obscure. A small black spot at each end of 

 the lateral line. 



The peculiar form of the head and mouth separate this at once 

 fi'om all the previously known species except A. macrocephalus, 

 Cope. The latter has naked cheeks and opercles, and differs in 

 several other respects. 



Habitat. Illinois River (Nelson), Wabash River (Jordan). 



6. Alvordius aspro, Cope and Jordan, nom. sp. nov. 



Etheostoma blennioides, Kirtlaud, Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist, (figure, but 



not description, which is copied from Rafiuesque). 

 E. blenmoides, Agassiz, and later writers. 



Etheostoma blennioides, Raf., is the fish nsuall}^ known as Hyos- 

 toma cymatogramvium, and for that fish his name must be retained. 

 E. blennioides, Auct., being thus left without a specific name, that 

 of aspro is here proposed. 



The genus Etheostoma, Raf., was originally based on E.Jiabel- 

 laris, E. caprodes, and E. blennioides. The last two afterwards 

 formed the subgenus Diplesion, leaving Etheostoma for E. Jiabel- 

 lare. 



7. Alvordius evides, Jordan & Copeland, sp. nov. 



Etheostoma nigroftisriatum, Manual Vert. 1876, p. 223 (not Hadrop' 



tents nigrofusciatuK, Ag. ). 

 Etheostoma evides^ Jordan & Copeland, Mss. in Nelson, Bulletin Ills. 



Hist. Soc. Dec. 1876, p. 36. 



Body elongate, rather short for the genus, little compressed, 

 depth 5^ in length, without caudal. Head heavj-, 4^ in length to 

 caudal; its greatest depth equal to its breadth, If in its length. 

 Profile convex, outlines prominent just behind eyes, depressed at 

 occiput. Eye large, rather high, their length rather more than 

 snout, and than interorbital space 3^ in head. Upper jaw a little 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



the longer. Moutli not so large as in A. af<pro, r^ little oblique, 

 the maxillarj' reaching to opposite front of orbit. Vomerine teeth. 

 Upper jaw not protractile, the skin of the middle of tlie lip 

 continuous with that of the forehead. Cheeks, neck above, and 

 throat naked ; opercles with a few rather large scales. Ventral 

 strip naked in one specimen, with a few enlarged scales in the 

 other. Vent midway between eye and tip of caudal. 



Fin rays; dorsal x — 10 (xi — 10), anal ii. 8 (ii. 9). 



Pectoral fins as long as head, their tips about even with those 

 of the ventrals. Ventrals long, their tips reaching § the distance 

 to vent. Anal rather short and unusually high, the longest rays 

 extending farther back than tlie longest dorsal rays when the fin 

 is depressed, the height of the longest ray | tiie length of the head. 

 Anal spines well developed, their height 2|- in head. 



Spinous dorsal long, moderately high, lower than the soft dor- 

 sal, its base equal to the distance from its first ray to the front of 

 the eye. Dorsal fins well apart, separated by a distance greater 

 than the diameter of the eye. Second dorsal lower than anal, but 

 with a longer base, the two fins about equal in absolute size. 

 Caudal fin moderate, emargiuate, as long as from tip of muzzle to 

 anterior margin of opercle. 



Color dark-grayish or olivaceous above, tessellated with black. 

 Top of head dark. A black band across top of head, just behind 

 the interorbital space; a distinct vertical suborbital bar; a broad 

 horizontal stripe across upper part of cheeks on the level of the 

 pupil, becoming a narrow stripe across the opercle. 



Body with about seven broad transverse black bars, extending 

 from below lateral line on one side across the back and down the 

 other side. These are rather faint above, their color blending with 

 the dark of the back, and they are broadest and most distinct 

 along the lateral line, just below which they end rather abru[)tl3'. 

 These bars are wider than the e3-e, and most of them extend a 

 distance below the lateral line equal to tiie diameter of the e3^e. 

 These bars are connected along tiic lateral line by a faint black 

 stripe. The fourth band is rather the most distinct, and it passes 

 over the back in the interspace between the two dorsal fins. The 

 two posterior bars are rounded and spot-like, but they also meet 

 across the back. Dorsal with one or two longitudinal blackish 

 streaks, and some vague markings on caudal. Fins otherwise 

 uncolored. 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53 



Belly and lower parts clear, creamy, becoming pale orange 

 behind ventrals. Interspaces between bands whitish with dark 

 spots. In the smaller specimen which has been longer in alcohol, 

 the black has faded to a dark chestnut. 



Habitat. White River near Indiana])olis in rapid water on stony 

 bottom. The three specimens known were taken b}^ Prof. Cope- 

 land and the writer at the same point at different times. The 

 largest specimen measures 2^ inches, the others 2j. 



This species is one of the most beautiful of all the darters. Its 

 colors, though not gaud}-, are ver^' striking, and quite unlike those 

 of an}'' other species known to me, resembling most those oi Alvor- 

 dius af:pro. 



In the Manual of the Vertebrates of the N. E. U. S., I identified 

 the only specimen then in my possession with Hadrojotertis nigro- 

 fasciatus, Ag., but that species turns out to be something quite 

 different. The small number of dorsal spines as well as the pecu- 

 liar coloration separates A. evides at once from its congeners 

 aspro^i maculating .^ macrocephalun^ phoxocephalus, and nevisensis. 

 A.fasciatus is the only species which resembles it in this respect, 

 but it is otherwise entirel}- different. 



Fercina manitou, Jordan, sp. nov. 



Body elongate, cylindrical, less compressed than in P. cap7'odes, 

 the depth being about 7 in length. Head 4^ in length (without 

 caudal), slender, but noticeably shorter and broader than in P. 

 caprodes, the snout being considerably shorter, blunter, and less 

 sloping. Eye large, about equal to snout, .3^ to 4 in head, greater 

 than interorbital space. Mouth small, less inferior, and less deeply 

 cleft than in P.'caprodes^ the maxillar}'- not extending to opposite 

 eye, the upper lip — as in P. caprodes — not protractile. Cheeks 

 and opercles with small scales, the former hardily visible. 



Scales small, about 90 in the lateral line, which is well-developed 

 and continuous. Ventral line witli enlarged, mucronate plates (in 

 one specimen — in the others naked); chest naked; region anterior 

 to dorsal fin above eiitirehj scaleless and smooth — in P. captrodes 

 this region is densely scaled, like the sides. 



Fin rays, D. XV., 14. A. II., 10. 



Fins moderate, ventrals reaching about halfway to vent, rather 

 further tlian pectorals. 



Colors black and yellowish olive, as in P. caprodes, but the 

 pattern different. The back irregularly and strongl}- marbled as 




54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [ISTT. 



in Alvordius aspro, the lateral bars being short, and not extend- 

 ing up the sides much above the lateral line, the bars on one 

 side not meeting their fellows on the opposite side. The bars 

 themselves are subequal, not so sharply defined as in P. caprodes, 

 short, about 20 in number, the last few blotch like, the last one a 

 round jet black spot. 



In P. caprodes the bars are alternately long and short, and each 

 one meets its fellow of the other side across the back, a particularly 

 distinct one crossing the back between the dorsal fins. 



Dorsal fins and caudal mottled in both species. 



Habitat. Lake Manitou in N. Ind., one of the sources of Tippe- 

 canoe R., 3 specimens in the Ind. State collection, each 3j to 3^ 

 inches long. 



This species is, of course, closely allied to P. caprodes^ but the 

 different coloration and physiognomy, as well as the smooth neck, 

 well distinguish it. 



P. carbonaria, B. and G., from Texas, is apparently not identical 

 with P. caprodes. I have numerous specimens' of the latter from 

 Alabama R. 



Comparison of the Etheosfomoid Genera. 



The genera, which seem to be worth}' of retention, in the pecu- 

 liar group, family, or subfamily o^ Etheostomidae (or i?ias), may be 

 thus compared : — 



* No lateral line ; dorsal fins small, not very unequal, the two well separated, 

 both larger than anal ; jaws about even ; scales large ; no ventral 

 plates ; upper jaw not protractile ; size small ; colors dull ; lius 

 barred. Mickoperca, 1. 



** Lateral line present on anterior half of body or less ; upper jaw not pro- 

 tractile ; caudal rounded ; no ventral plates ; second dorsal larger 

 than anal ; fins barred, 

 f Dorsal fins well separated, about equal ; jaws nearly equal ; lateral 

 , line curved high over pectorals ; cheeks and opercles scalj' ; body 

 elongated and compressed ; colors often bright. BoiiEicuxnYs, 2. 

 \\ Dorsal fins distinct, about equal, the first short, but nearly as high as 

 second ; cheeks and opercles scaly ; lower jaw longest ; body elon- 

 gated ; a dark lateral band. Ai-VAiurs, 3. 

 \\\ Dorsal fins unequal, the first scarcely half the height of tlie second 

 and rather short ; cheeks and opercles naked ; lower jaw longest ; 

 body elongated, compressed ; branchiostegal membranes broadly 

 united; coloration in bars or lines of dots. Ethkostoma, 4. 




18*r1.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



*** Lateral developed for at least two-tbirds tlie length of the body. 



a. Body moderately elongated ; scaly, excepting sometimes definitely 

 naked areas on neck, chest, and ventral line. 

 b. Second dorsal considerably larger than anal ; no ventral plates ; 

 the middle region of the belly scaled. 

 c. Upper jaw not protractile ; dorsal fins contiguous, the membrane 

 of the first just reaching the base of second ; mouth medium, 

 the upper jaw a trifle the longer ; cheeks naked (scaly in 

 If. zonalis) ; body short, and usually deep ; fins large, not 

 barred, but in the female speckled ; colors brilliant. 

 Lateral line incomplete. Pcecilichthys, 5. 



Lateral line complete. Nothoxotus, 6. 



cc. Upper jaw protractile ; mouth small, horizontal, and more or 

 less inferior ; lateral line complete ; fins barred. 

 d. Vomerine teeth ; anal spines often obscure or obsolete ; dor- 

 sals contiguous, but separate ; spinous dorsal rather short ; 

 body elongated ; colors plain. Boleosoma, 7. 



dd. No vomerine teeth (at least in typical species) ; anal spines 

 strong ; cheeks and opercles scaly ; body elongated, little 

 compressed ; head short and thick, with swollen cheeks ; 

 mouth very small ; color bright. Dipi-esivm, 8. 



bd. Second dorsal not larger than spinous dorsal, and little, if any, 

 larger than anal, the two dorsal fins Avell separated ; body little 

 compressed ; vomerine teeth ; lateral line complete ; two anal 

 spines (except in Alvordius peltntus — a species of uncertain 

 affinities) ; color, yellowish, with black bars and blotches. 

 e. Mouth wide, terminal, the upper jaw but little longest. 

 /. Upper jaw protractile ; cheeks and opercles scaly ; no 

 ventral plates (?), body stout ; head short and heavy. 



Imostoma, 9. 

 ff. Upper jaw not protractile. 



g. No ventral plates ; the middle line of the belly with 

 small scales ; cheeks and opercles scaled. 



Hadropterus, 10. 

 gg. Ventral plates present (or falling, leaving a naked 

 atrip). Alvordivs, 11. 



ee. Mouth narrow, inferior, overlapped bj' a tapering, more or 

 less truncate, pig like snout ; cheeks and opercles scaly; 

 ventral plates present ; or, if fallen, a naked strip ; body 

 elongated ; size largest. Percina, 12. 



art. Body excessively long and slender, cylindric, with very thin, 

 transparent scales, which are wanting over the ventral region, 

 and scarcely visible on the dorsal ; lateral line complete; cheeks 

 and opercles scaly ; mouth large ; the upper jaw sub-protractile* 

 and a little the longer; vomerine teeth ; dorsal fins small, wide 

 apart; head elongated ; color transparent, with dorsal and lateral 

 series of small dark spots. Pleurolepis, 13. 




56 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[IS11. 



Of the genera admitted above, AUarius is imperfectly known. 

 Nothonotus may be only a subgenus of Pcecilichthys, and Alvor- 

 dius of Hadropterus. The claim of some of the others to inde- 

 pendent rank seems not to be beyond question. 



The other generic names used in this group seem to be syn- 

 onyms, as follows : — 



Hololepis, of Boleichtliys. 

 Pegedictis, Catonotus, of Etlieostoraa. 

 Oligocepliakis, Astatichthys, of Poecilichtliys. 

 Arlina, Estrella, Cottogaster, of Boleosoma. 

 Hypohoraus, Plesioperca, of Hadropterus. 

 Pileoma, Asproperca, of Percina. 



Aplesion, Grd., I do not know. Pegedictis, Raf., is, perhaps, 

 based in part on Catonotus, and in part, perhaps, on the 3'oung 

 of some Cottoid. 



It is undoubted]}" best to discard the name Pegedictis, which I 

 unadvised^ revived in place of Potamocottus, Gill. 



Tiie relations of these genera may be rudely shown by the 

 following diagram : — 



Microperca 



/ \ 



/ Alvarius 



/ I 



Boleichthys Etlieostoraa 



\ y 



Pceciliclithys 



I 

 Nothonotus 



Boleosoma 



I 

 Diplesium 



1 

 Imostoma 



I 

 Hadropterus 



1 

 Alvordius 



I 

 Percina — 



7. Copelandia eriarcha, Jordan, sp. nov. 



In a collection of Wisconsin fishes sent by Dr. Iloy to Prof. 

 Copeland and myself for identification, I find a species of saw-fish 

 wliicli api)ears to be the type of a distinct genus. For this genus 

 I have proposed the name of Copelandia, dedicating it to the 

 memory of one of the most enthusiastic of naturalists, and most 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57 



genial of men, whose untimely death has been a great loss to onr 

 science. 



The genus Copelandia is allied to Enneacanthns, HemiopHtes, 

 and Centrai'cJius. Its characters are as follows: — 



Dorsal with 10 spines, anal with 4; the anal si)ines strong, the 

 soft ra3's high; caudal fin rounded; opercle emarginate, with a 

 black dermal border (as in EnneacanthuH). A supernumerary 

 maxillary' bone. Palatine teeth. Appendages of anterior gill 

 arch long, and in small number, much as in Ambloplites. 



The typical species C. eriarcha is thus characterized : Body 

 rattier elongated, more so than in Enneacanthus, the profile form- 

 ing a nearh' uniform curve. Depth 2;^ in length; head 2| ; cau- 

 dal peduncle rather abruptl}' narrowed. Form most like that of 

 Apomotis cyanellus, Raf. (mineopos, Cope). Eye ver^^ large, 

 3 in head ; longer than snout ; much more than interorbital 

 space; mucous channels not large: scales on cheek large, in about 

 three rows; mouth moderately large; the maxillar}' short and 

 broad, with a distinct supplemental bone. Distance from snout 

 to dorsal equal to length of the base of that fin; spines rather 

 high, the longest equal to distance from snout, just past pupil; 

 the first spine short, the last regularl3- longer. Soft dorsal high, 

 its height equal to distance from snout to front of opercle. Caudal 

 fin slightly rounded, its length 4 that of head. Anal fin ver3' 

 large, beginning well forward, midway between base of caudal 

 and nostrils. Spines 4, all strong, the last xevy large and strong, 

 as long as from snout to posterior part of pupil. Soft rays a 

 little higher than those of dorsal, and reaching base of caudal. 

 Yentral fins large, with a strong spine which reaches to begin- 

 ning of anal, the longest soft ray reaching first soft ray of anal. 

 Pectorals moderate, about as long as the base of anal, reaching to 

 tips of ventrals. Scales large, 3 — 33 — 10; lateral lines running 

 high, parallel with the back, ending about opposite last rays of 

 dorsal. 



Fin rays D. X., 9 ; A. lY., 8; Y. I., 5. 



Color faded in spirits. Yertical fins with numerous round 

 whitish spots, which were probably blue in life ; a black, opercular 

 spot. Length, 3 inches. 



Habitat — Menomonee R., at Wauwatosa, Milwaukee Co., Wis. 

 Coll., Dr. P. R. Hoy. 

 5 




58 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1877 



8. Lepomis peltastes, Cope. 



The sunlish referred to by Xelson {op. cit. 38) as Ichthelis 

 anagallinus^ from Fox R., Ills., is not Cope's anagallinus, but 

 another species, probably Lexjomis peltastes, Cope, a species which, 

 following Prof. Bliss {in lit.), I have hitherto considered identical 

 with anagallinus. Both oculatus. Cope, and peltastes. Cope, I now 

 consider distinct species. I have specimens of anagallinus from 

 Salt R., K}'., of oculatus from Racine, Wis., and of peltastes from 

 the Upper Illinois. 



Prof. Cope and the writer have reviewed the nomenclature of 

 our Centrarchine genera, and have jointl}' come to the conclusion 

 that the genera mentioned in the synopsis below are the ones 

 worthy of adoption. 



We have deemed that science Avould be best served by applying 

 to these names the strict rules of zoological nomenclature. The 

 grounds on which proposed changes are based are given in a sup- 

 plement to this paper. The characters of the genera adopted are 

 brought out in the following synopsis. Most of them were first 

 pointed out by Prof. Cope, but for their arrangement here the 

 present writer only is responsible. 



Comparison of the Centrarchine Genera. 



The genera of sunfishes {Centrarchidee) may be thus com- 

 pared : — 



* Dorsal fin much more developed than anal fin (tlie base of the former H 

 to 3 times that of the latter), the soft parts of the two fins about equal, 

 and ternihiating at the same vertical behind ; long gill rakers if pre- 

 sent, in small number, about 10. 

 f Anal spines 3 or 4. 



a. Caudal fin cmarginate ; anal spines 3 ; dorsal spines (normally) 10. 

 b. Operclc ending behind in an entire convex process or flap, Avhich 

 always has a black spot; dorsal fin not notched. 

 c Maxillary without supplemental bone ; mouth rather small, with 

 equal jaws; maxillary usually not reaching to orbit; scales 

 ctenoid. 

 d. Lower pharyngeal bones broad, witb blunt, rounded, " paved" 

 teeth. Appendages on anterior branchial arch ("gill rak- 

 ers"), short, blunt, and weak ; no palatine teeth. 



POMOTIS, 1. 



dd. Lower pharyngeal bones narrower, with fewer teeth which 

 arc conic and sharp. 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59 



e. Gill appendages short, blunt, and weak, not differentiated — 

 as in Pomotis (species with the opercular flap much 

 elongated — the spines low, the colors brilliant, cheeks 

 ordinarily with blue stripes, and no palatine teeth). 



Xexotis, 2. 

 ee. Gill rakers long and slender, the lowermost 8 or 10 larger 

 than the rest (species with the dorsal spines more or less 

 elevated, the opercular flap comparatively broad and short, 

 the colors less brilliant — though often lustrous, and often 

 no blue lines on cheeks — palatine teeth often present. 



Lepomis, 3. 

 cc. Maxillar}^ with a supplemental bone; gill appendages long (as 

 in all the following genera) ; lower pharyngeal teeth conic (as 

 in all the following); mouth rather large, the lower jaw pro- 

 truding; scales weakly or not ctenoid; palatine teeth (as in 

 all the following). 

 /. Tongue without teeth; supplemental bone narrow; maxil- 

 lary reaching to between front and middle of orbit; gene- 

 ral aspect of Lepomis. Apomotis, 4. 

 j^. Tongue with a conspicuous patch of teeth; supplemental 

 bone large; mouth wide, reaching to opposite posterior 

 margin of eye ; form, aspect, and dentition of Anihlo- 

 plites, etc. Ch.exobryttus, 5. 

 bb. Opercle emarginate behind — ending in two flat points with a 

 dermal border (as in all the genera following); dorsal fin deeply 

 notched, separated almost into two fins, the last spines being 

 shortened ; body elongate ; mouth very wide — the lower jaw 

 longest, the supplemental maxillary large ; gill appendages long ; 

 size large. Micropterus, 6. 

 aa. Caudal fin rounded; mouth small, with equal jaws; gill appen- 

 dages long, in small number ; opercle emarginate ; species of small 

 size. 



g. Dorsal fin angulated, the middle spines longer than 

 some of the posterior ones ; supplemental maxillary 

 wanting (or rudimentary ?); anal spines 8 ; dorsal 10 ; 

 body barred. Mesogonistius, 7. 



gg. Dorsal fin continuous ; supernumerary bone well de- 

 veloped. 

 h. Dorsal spines normally 9; anal spines 3. 



Enneacanthus, 8, 

 7i?i. Dorsal spines 10; anal 4. Copelandia, 9. 



hhh. Dorsal spines 8 ; anal 4. Hemioplites, 10. 



\\ Anal spines 5 to 7 ; dorsal spines 10 to 13 ; teeth on tongue and palate ; 

 mouth large ; a strong supplementary maxillary bone ; lower jaw 

 longest ; opercle emarginate ; gill appendages long and strong — 8 or 

 10 of the large ones. 




60 PEOCEEDINQS OF THE ACADEMY OF [ISTT. 



i. Caudal fin rounded ; scales cycloid ; anal spines 



normally five. Acaktharchus, 11. 



ii. Caudal fin emarginate ; scales ctenoid ; anal spines 

 normally six. Ambloplites, 12. 



** Dorsal and anal fins about equal in extent, the soft portion of the latter 

 longest and most posterior, the two fins being obliquely opposed ; lower 

 jaw longest ; supplemental maxillary bone present ; opercle emargi- 

 nate ; gill rakers very long, in large number (20 to 30); fins large ; 

 scales faintly or not ctenoid. 



k. Spinous dorsal shorter than soft part, continu- 

 ous with it — the species 5 to 8 in number, 

 rapidly graduated ; anal spines normally 6 ; 

 body compressed and rather elongate ; mouth 

 large. Pomoxts, 13. 



kk. Spinous dorsal longer than soft part, forming 

 an angle with it, the spines about 12 in num- 

 ber, not rapidly graduated ; anal spines nor- 

 mally 8 ; body deep ; mouth moderate. 



Centrarchus, 14. 

 9. Aphrodedirus cookianus, Jordan, sp. nov. 



In the collection from St. Joseph's River of the Manmee, I find 

 a single specimen of a Pirate Perch, which differs about equally 

 from the Eastern A. sayanus, and the Sternotremia isolepis, 

 recently described hy Mr. Xelson from Illinois. Its characters 

 are so peculiar that I see no alternative but to consider it as a 

 new species, and to refer it to the genus Aphrodedirus. 



Body broad, stout, elevated at the dorsal, the depth 3^ in length, 

 without caudal. Head large, broad and stout, 3 in length, its 

 greatest thickness a little more than half its length, its depth at 

 the pupil a little less. Mouth wide, lower jaw longest; maxillary 

 reaching anterior margin of e^^e. Eye moderate, 4^ in snout, its 

 posterior margin nearly- midway of head, 1^ in snout, and in 

 interorbital space. Lower posterior angle of cheek about a right 

 angle. 



Fin rays D. III., 11. A. II., 6. Y. 7. B. 6. 



Beginning of dorsal much nearer snout than base of caudal, 

 base of dorsal If in distance from snout to first ra}' ; pectoral as 

 long as from snout to opercular margin ; tips of pectorals not 

 reaching as far as those of ventrals. 



Yentrals considerabl}' more than half length of head, reaching 

 I the distance to anal. Long anal spine 2^ in head ; caudal 

 rounded. 



Vent midway between junction of branchial membranes and 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



ventral fins, about f the diameter of the eye behind the little knob 

 which is on the throat in all the species of this famil}', the length 

 of the snout in advance of the ventrals, about under the middle 

 of the opercles. 



Scales very small, stronglv ctenoid, not easily seen along mid- 

 dle of body, largest on cheeks and on opercles. Lateral line dis- 

 tinct for a short distance onU^, about 58 scales in its entire course. 



Color dark olive, appearing bronze in spirits, profuselj' speckled 

 with dark points, which give the fins a dark color ; a dark bar at 

 base of caudal and a light one beliind it. Length 3 inclies. 



Habitat. Sawyer's Creek, outlet of Long Lake, Kendallville, 

 N. E. Indiana (Waters of Lake Erie). This species is named in 

 honor of the naturalist who first collected it. 



Tljis fish differs from Sternotremia isoJepis in the anterior 

 position of the vent, which is nearl^^ as in Aphrodedirus sayanus. 

 It is stouter, has a larger head, smaller scales, and a shorter anal 

 spine. The ventral lins are also decidedly larger and longer. 

 Several minor differences are noticeable on comparison with one 

 of Nelson's tj-pes. Aphrodedirus sayanus has a more elongated 

 bod}', a longer head, much larger scales, a more backward position 

 of the dorsal, and an increased number of spines in the dorsal 

 and anal. At least such is the case in a specimen examined by 

 me from near Philadelphia. The position of the vent in Sterno- 

 tremia seems sufficient to characterize that genus, but the species 

 of the two genera, as among our Centrarchidse and Cottidse, are 

 " cast in the same mould." Sternotremia apparently' represents a 

 step in a transition from Aphrodedirus towards Percidse. 



In the original description of S. isolepis (Bull. Ills. Mus. Nat. 

 Hist., I., 1876, .39), " Vent more than twice as far from lower jaw 

 as from ventrals," should read from tips of ventrals." 



10. Cottopsis ricii, Nelson. 



Xelsou, Bull. Ills. Nat. Hist. Soc, 1876. 



A second specimen of this curious species, received from Dr. P. 

 R. Hoy, of Racine, Wis., enables me to supplement the original 

 description. The occurrence in the Great Lakes of this type for- 

 merly supposed to be peculiar to the Pacific Slope is very inte- 

 resting. 



Body moderately elongated, depressed ; the head especially so. 

 Depth 5^ in length, the head 3g. Body quite abruptly contracted 




62 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [ISTT. 



opposite the base of anal, the bod}' behind head nearl}' as deep as 

 wide. 



Body behind the vent rather slender, subterete, giving a tad- 

 pole-like form to the bodj'. 



Jaws about equal, the lower narrower, but projecting in front ; 

 mouth rather contracted, the maxillary scarcely reaching to e3'e. 

 Palatine teeth. Eye 4^ in head, half wider than the interorbital 

 space, about equal to snout. Eyes close together, entirely supe- 

 rior. 



Head very broad and flat, as broad or broader than long, in- 

 cluding the perpendicular spines, its depth half its length. Pro- 

 file rising rapidly* from head to base of dorsal, which runs along 

 a decided ridge or carina. 



Preopercular spine extremely large, more than three times as 

 large as in any other of our fresh-water Cottoids, and as long as 

 the eye. This spine is hooked backwards, and is slight!}- spiral, 

 giving the fish a decidedly buffalo-like or cow-like physiognomy. 

 Three spines hooked downwards, below the large one, the lower 

 concealed. A strong spine directed forwards at base of opercle. 

 Isthmus as wide as from snout to middle of orbit. 



Fin rays, D. VIII--1Y. Anal 12. Yentrals I. 4. Pectorals 16. 

 Branchiostegals 6. 



Base of pectorals crescentic, their tips just short of anal, the 

 rays all simple. Yentrals under pectorals reaching f to vent ; 

 their membrane decurrent. Dorsal beginning a trifle bej'ond ven- 

 trals, rather nearer anal than snout. Yent midway between base 

 of caudal and snout. Depth at first ray of anal less than half 

 length of head, the thickness at the same point a little more than 

 one-third. Least depth } of head. Caudal peduncle slenderer 

 than in an}- other Cottoid known to me in our fresh waters. Head 

 smooth. Space above lateral line, behind head covered with small 

 stiff prickles, slightly hooked backwards, readily visible as little 

 black specks when the skin is dr}-. Axillary region not pro- 

 vided witli spines. (These are present in most species of Fola- 

 mocoltus.) 



Color pale brown, rather finely specked and mottled with darker 

 bi-own, not at all as in Uranidea., much as in Lota, more as in Lo- 

 phopsetta. Pectorals mottled ; belly white. Length of smaller 

 specimen (Nelson's type) 2^ inches; of larger, 3§. 



Habitat. Lake Michigan, in deep water. Two or three other 




ISYT.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63 



specimens have been seen, but nevei- preserved (Dr. Hoj^). The 

 cow-like exi)ression of the face is xevy characteristic. 



11. Uranidea hoyi, Putnam, MS. 



Uranidea 1wyi, Putnam MS. (1875). Jordan, Man. Vert., 1876, 244 

 (name only). Jordan and Copeland, Bull. Buff. Soc. Nat. Sc, 1876 

 (name only). Nelson, Bull. Ills. Mus. Xat. Hist., 1876, 41 (diag- 

 nosis). 



This species has been for some time named in MS., but no full 

 description published. Putnam's types are now in vny possession. 

 They show the following characters. The portion relating to the 

 vertical fins is taken from notes by Dr. H03', as those parts are 

 now entirel}' obliterated on the specimens. 



Body small, rather short and thick, the depth about 5^ in 

 length. Head 3^ in length, to base of caudal. E3-es large, high 

 up, and close together; about equal to snout, 3f in head, three 

 times the interorbital space. Head rather narrow and contracted ; 

 the lower jaw narrowed and slightly projecting. Xo palatine 

 teeth (?); maxillarj' reaching anterior border of eye, or a little 

 beyond. 



Preopercular spine prominent, sharp, very nearly straight, 

 directed backwards, but not strongl\' upwards ; its form and 

 direction peculiar in this genus. Below this is another sharp, 

 prominent spine, also nearl}' straight, directed partly downwards. 

 One or two minute concealed spines still lower. Isthmus well 

 developed. 



Pectoral fins long, longer than the head, reaching beginning of 

 anal. Ventral fins long, reaching almost to vent. Vent midway 

 between snout and base of caudal (in %)\ in the female further 

 back, owing to t?he distended abdomen. Ventral rays I. 3 (on 

 one side of each specimen apparenll3' I. 4 ; perhaps a soft ray has 

 been split). 



Fin rays "D. VI. 15 ; A. 11 ; V. I. 3 ; P. 13; C. 12 ; the first 

 dorsal low and small, | as long as soft part, and connected to it 

 by membrane. Fins all low." (Dr. Ho}.) 



Color nearly obliterated. Lower parts profuselj' punctate. 



Length of specimens, 2^ inches. 



Habitat. Lake Michigan — in deep water. 



Female specimen taken 12 miles off Racine, Wis., in 12 fathoms, 

 June 4th, 1875, b}- Dr. Hov; the male oft" Milwaukee, June 15th. 

 The specimens are now in bad condition, from rough handling. 




64 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1877. 



The female is distended with ripe eggs, so that the width of the 

 body is one-third the total length. 



This species seems to be quite distinct from all those described 

 by Girard. Tlie peculiar characters are the number and form of 

 the preopercular spines, the contracted mouth, the large e\es, 

 the small size of the bod}*, and the length of the ventral fins. The 

 characters first mentioned are the most striking, and the}' indicate 

 some aflfinit}' with Triylopsis. 



12. TJranidea kumlienii, Hoy, MS. 



U. kumlienii, Hoy, Nelson, Bull. Ills. Mns. Nat. Hist., 1876, 41. 



One of Dr. Hoy's types, in ver}- bad condition, is in my posses- 

 sion. It has grown soft in weak alcohol, and its remarkable 

 slenderness of bodj' is, perhaps, in part at least, due to this fact. 



Bod}' slender and elongated, as in V. boleoides ; its depth 6 (?) 

 times in length. Head large and long, its width a little more than 

 half its length, its depth a little less, 3^ in length of body. Eye 

 large, ^\ in head, about equal to snout, more than twice the 

 widtli of interorbital space. 



Base of pectorals crescentic ; the fin about as long as head ; the 

 lower rays rapidly shortened, reaching second or third dorsal ray, 



and falling just short of anal ; fourth and fifth rays longest 



Yent equidistant between base of caudal and front of eye. 



Mouth pretty wide and oblique, the maxillary reaching to mid- 

 dle of eye. Lower jaw projecting. No palatine teeth. Preoper- 

 cular spine large, directed upwards and backwards, not strongly 

 hooked. 



Fin rays, D. VI. 17 ; A. 12 ; P. 14 ; Y. I. 3. 



First dorsal rather high ; § the height of the second ; the second 

 spine longest, and filamentous (as is apt to be the case in rotten 

 Cottoids) ; the two fins connected by a membrane. Caudal pe- 

 duncle slender. Caudal fin narrow, more than | length of head. 

 Second dorsal and anal high. 



Lateral line disappearing under middle of second dorsal. 



Color obliterated — traces of a black spot on spinous dorsal. 



Length of specimen, 3 inches. 



Lake Michigan, in deep water. (Dr. Hoy.) 



This species is dedicated by Dr. Hoy to Mr. A. L. Kumlien. 



Nelson's description (1. c.) was made up from my notes on this 

 specimen. 




1877.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



65 



Genus EUCALIA, Jordan, 1876. 

 (Man. Vert., 187G, 248; type, Gasterostteus inconstans, Kirt.) 



Some three yQa.\'B since I separated this genus in MS., and I 

 adopted it in the Manual of Vertebrates (above cited), but it has 

 not 3^et been fully characterized. I give below a comparison of 

 the tj^pical species of Eucalia with that of Apeltes^ the genus most 

 nearly related. 



Common characters: Sides not mailed; caudal keel undevel- 

 oped ; spines not serrated ; dorsal spines in small number (3 to G), 

 % in spring, witli colors intensified. 



Apeltes, Dekay, 1842. Eucalia, Jordan, 1876. 



(Type^Oasterosteus guadracus, Mit.) {TyY>e, Oasterosteus inconst(tni^,K\rt.) 



Generic characters. 



1. Dorsal spines in a right line. 



Dorsal spines not in a right line, 

 the first being on one side of 

 the median line when erected, 

 the next two on the other. 



Ventral plates two, one on each 

 side of the ventral fins. 



3. No distinct post-pectoral plate. 



Ventral plates coalesced into a 

 narrow plate on the median 

 line between the ventral fins. 



A distinct sub-quadrate post-pec- 

 toral plate. 



Associated cJiaracters. 



4. Dorsal spines normally III-I. 



5. Dorsal spines high, diminishing 



in size backwards. 



6. Suborbital plate, silvery, very dis- 



tinct, semicircular. 



7. A developed bony ridge on each 



side of the dorsal spines. 



8. Caudal peduncle very long and 



slender — as long as head ; its 

 least depth 4 to 5 times in its 

 length. 



9. Species in salt or brackish waters. 



4. Dorsal spines normally IV-I. 



5. Dorsal spines lower, diminishing 



in lieight forwards. 



6. Suborbital plate, indistinct, lu- 



nate. 



7. Dorsal ridge rudimentary and on 



median line. 



8. Caudal peduncle short and rela- 



tively stout — shorter than head ; 

 its least depth about ^ of its 

 lengtli. 



9. Species in inland brooks and lakes. 



1.3. Eucalia inconstans (Kirt.), Jor. 



Depth equal to length of head, four times in bod3' to base of 

 caudal. Curve of tlie back rising very slowly. E3'es rather large, 

 longer than snout, 3^ in head, mucli wider than interorbital space. 

 Curve of back descending rather abruptly towards the tail along 

 the base of the soft dorsal. Curve of belly moderately convex, 




66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1877. 



ascending to form a slight constriction on candal peduncle. Cau- 

 dal peduncle rather thick, slenderest in females. Vent much 

 nearer tip of caudal than snout (in Ohio specimens this is not 

 true). Body compressed, but much less so than in either pyg- 

 msea or cayuga. Fin rays, D. lY.-I., 10 varying to III.-l, 9, and 

 Y.-L, 10. A. I, 10, V. I, 1. P. 10 to 12. C. 14. 



Dorsal spines low and distant, not half so high proportionally as 

 in caynga ; soft dorsal low, the first raj- about twice as long as the 

 spines. Anal similar, rather smaller, about three times the heigiit 

 of the curved spine whicli precedes it. A^entrals short and weak, 

 shorter than eye (Wisconsin specimens), or rather longer (Ohio 

 specimens). 



Colors in life (in Ma}'), males jet black, somewhat coppery 

 about the mouth ; females olivaceous and mottled, finel}' dotted 

 with black ; 3'oung like the females. Length 2 to 2^ inches. 



Habitat. Little sluggish brooks, among weeds and grass, from 

 Ohio to Minnesota (? Greenland, Cope). Usually in company 

 with Umbra limi. The species is notable for its pugnacity and 

 voracity, and for its nest-building habits. 



I have specimens from Oconto, Outagamie, Calumet, Winne- 

 bago, Brown, Racine, Sauk, Dane, Walworth, Green, and Jeffer- 

 son Counties, in Wisconsin and from Cu\'ahoga County, Ohio. 



14. Eucalia inconstans subsp. cayuga, Jordan, Man., Vert., 1876, p. 249. 



Depth much less than length of head, 41 in length of bod}- ; 

 head 3^. Back arched considerably. Ej-es large, as long as snout, 

 wider than interorbital space, 3j in head. Caudal peduncle rela- 

 tively much longer and more slender than in inconstans, its length 

 about equal to depth of body. 



Yent much nearer snout than base of caudal, as near as middle 

 of caudal. Head, ventral cuirass, etc., about as in iyiconstans, 

 bod}'^ more strongly compressed. 



Fin rays D. IV.-L, 10 ; A. L, 10. 



Yentral spine stout, long, equal to deptli of head at eyes, or to 

 length of head behind eyes. Last dorsal spine | height of first 

 soft ra}' ; fins all high. Anal spine § height of first ray. 



Color olivaceous, reticulated and mottled with darker. Length 

 1^ to 2 inches. 



Habitat. Cayuga Lake, X. Y. ; many specimens dredged by Dr. 

 B. G. Wilder. 



The special characters of this variety seem to be its small size. 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



liigh fins, and long caudal peduncle. If these prove constant, it 

 may be necessary to consider it a species. 



Sauvage (Nouvelles Arcliives du Museum, 1873) has distin- 

 guished a genus, Gasterostea, based on G. puyiyiiius, Linnaeus, 

 which seems to be equivalent to Pygosteus, Brevoort. 



15. Zygonectes dispar, Agassiz. 



Zygonectes di><pai\ Agassiz, Am. Journ. Sc. Arts, 1854 (Illinois River). 

 Nelsou, Bull. Ills. Mus. Nat. Hist. 1876, 43 (Illinois River). 



Body short and deep, much compressed. The depth 4^ in 

 length. Head sliort and very broad, the flat interorbital space 

 being | of its length, and nearly twice the distance between the 

 eyes below. The e^-es, tlierefore, are oblique, sloping downwards 

 and inwards, therefore better seen on a view from below tlian from 

 above. Head 3| in length ; ayo. nearly 3 in liead. 



Snout broadly rounded in front. Upi)er cheeks and top of head 

 with large scales. Lower parts with small ones, appearing naked. 



Fin ra^s D. about 7 ; A. 9 or 10. Fins all small except caudal 

 and perhaps anal. Dorsal much behind anal and not half as large, 

 its front midway between front of eye and tip of caudal. Pecto- 

 rals narrow; caudal large and rounded. Tlie fins are very fragile, 

 so that it is almost impossible to count the rays. 



Scales large, in 33 to 36 transverse rows, about 10 longitudinal 

 ones, the scales strongly marked with concentric ridges. 



Branchiostegals apparently 3. Yent a little nearer snout than 

 base of caudal. Ventrals small and short. 



Color pale olive in spirits, bluish in life ; a brownish line along 

 the edges of each row of scales, appearing wavy or serrated as it 

 follows the scales. About 10 of tliese lines, which are very dis- 

 tinct, a little wider forwards, narrower tlian the interspaces. 



Males (?), with these lines interrupted and further marked with 

 about 9 crossbars, not one-third as wide as tlie interspaces, ob- 

 scure forwards, most distinct over anal. 



Length of all adult specimens seen, just \\ inclies. 



Habitat. Rivers and lakes of X. Ind. and Illinois. Abundant 

 wherever noticed. They swim about near the surface, slowly, as 

 if it were very hard work. 



This species bears little resemblance to Z. nolatus, the type of 

 Zygonectes. This latter species is Rafinesque's '■^ SemotilKs? no- 

 tatus.'^ I have according!}^ substituted the name of 7wfatus for 

 olivaceus, Storer. I have also substituted Fundulus diajihanus 




68 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [187 Y. 



for F. muUifasciatus. Le Sueur's type of his Hydrargira dia- 

 phana and multifasciata both came from Saratoga Lake, and his 

 descriptions apparentlj' refer to the same species. Diaphanus, Le 

 Sueur, is tlie name first used. Fundulus diaphanus is the most 

 widely diffused of all our Cyprinodonts, occurring in brackish 

 water as well as in ponds and springs, from Massachusetts to 

 Colorado. 



Zygonectes is not well distinguished from Haplochilus^ McClel- 

 land. Micristius^ Gill, is probably' a sjaionyra. 



16. Fundulus menona, Jor. and Copeland, sp. nov. 



Among the fishes sent to us by Dr. H03' is a species of Fundu- 

 lus, which seems to be new to science. It is characterized as fol- 

 lows: — 



Body elongate, slightl}^ compressed, not elevated, its depth 5 

 in length. Head long and large, 3| in length, flat on top, and 

 rather narrow, the breadth of interorbital space half greater than 

 width of eye. Eye 4 in head. 



Mouth moderate, of the usual form. Length of head If in dis- 

 tance to dorsal. 



Fin rays D. 12 ; A. 10 ; V. 6 ; B. 5. 



Dorsal in advance of anal moderately long, and not very high. 

 Anal short and very deep, the longest ray § the length of the head. 

 Pectorals short, reaching ventrals ; ventrals sliort, scarcely reach- 

 ing anal. Vent midwa}' between front of eye and base of caudal. 



Scales moderate, in 48 transverse rows, and about 12 longitu- 

 dinal ones, not small, but very closely imbricated. 



Color in spirits dark olive brown, with numerous narrow verti- 

 cal silvery bands, or dark olive above, this color extending down 

 the sides and around the belly, forming 10 bands, which are sepa- 

 rated by shining, silvery interspaces, which are narrower than the 

 bands, and ver}' distinct. The dark spaces are broadest behind. 

 Cheeks and opercle silvery. Traces of dark lines along the rows 

 of scales. Fins unspotted. 



Length 3^ inches. 



Habitat. Catfish River, Dane Co., Wisconsin (outlet of Lake 

 Menona near Madison). 



This species is most nearly related to Fu7idulus diaphanus (viul- 

 tifascialus). The latter, however, differs entirely in coloration, 

 being silvery olive, with narrow black bars, and the dorsal region 

 irregularl}' spotted. F. menona further has the head longer and 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 69 



narrower, the scales rather larger and more closely imbricated. 

 The vent in F. diaphanus is about midway between the middle of 

 caudal and the front of eye. F. menona perhaps reaches a larger 

 size than the other species. 



17. Dorosoma cepedianum (Le S.), Gill- 



Tills species is now abundant in Lake Erie and Lake Michigan, 

 as well as in the larger tributaries of the Mississippi River. It 

 has come into the great lakes through the canals. As a help to 

 the settlement of the question of the relation of the western fish 

 {Dorosoma iwtatum, Raf., Chaloessiia eUipficus, Kirt.) and the 

 eastern one, I give here a detailed account of the specimen m the 

 Indiana collection from the Wabash Rivei", at Merom. 



Body deep, much compressed, but not greatly elevated. Mouth 

 small, inferior, snout rounded. Depth 2h in length, without cau- 

 dal. Head 4. Eye twice length of snout, 4^ in head. Length 

 of top of head 3^ in distance to origin of dorsal. 



Fin rays D. II., 11 ; A. II., 30 ; V. 8. 



Scales in about 56 transverse rows and 20 longitudinal ones. 

 17 scutes in front of ventral fins, 12 behind. 



Dorsal fin beginning midway between snout and middle of base 

 of caudal, the last or filamentous ray being equal to the length of 

 the head, nearly twice the length of the longest ray not filamen- 

 tous, and more than twice the base of the fin. Pectorals scarcely 

 reaching ventrals, 1^ in head. Ventrals reaching half way to 

 anal, 2^ in head. Yent about midvvay between snout and tip of 

 caudal. Anal base a little longer than head, three times its 

 longest ray. Caudal fin widely forked, largely scaly at base. 

 Depth of caudal peduncle half length of head. 



In spirits, nearly uniformly silvery. 



Length of specimen 10^ inches. 



18. Esoz salmoneus, Haf. 



I have adopted Rafinesque's name for the common Little Pick- 

 erel of the Western States, because it is undoubtedly the species 

 which Rafinesque had in mind, notwithstanding his statement 

 tiiat " it reaches the length of five feet." Esox umbroHiis, Kirt- 

 land, is the same fish, as I know from the examination of his 

 original type. Some of Le Sueur's unidentified species probably 

 belong here. 



Esox cypho, Cope, of which I have examined specimens from 




TO PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



Fox River, Illinois, is quite distinct. It is locally known as the 

 Buffalo Pike. 



Rafinesque's name, Picoi'ellus, may be used for the species of 

 Esox, with the cheeks and opercles entirely scaled. It is equiva- 

 lent to the group " Pickerels" of Girard, This character is, 

 however, hardly of generic value. 



19. Minnilus ariommus, Cope. 



This species is locally quite abundant in White River, about 

 Indianapolis, in which stream Cope's original t3'pe was taken. I 

 have, however, not found it in any other river, nor in any of the 

 tributary creeks. It is a rather large and striking species. In 

 size of eye it surpasses all of our other Cyprinidse. 



20. Lythrurus cyanocephalus, Copeland, MS., sp. nov. 



" Hoy's Red Fish.'''' Hoy in Reports ou Fishes of Wisconsin. 

 Lythrurus cya7iocepItalus, Copeland, MS., Nelson, Bull. Ills. Mus. 

 Nat. Hist., 1876. (Name only.) 



Among the unfinished papers of the late Prof. Copeland, are 

 fragments of a synopsis of the Fishes of Wisconsin. In this MS. 

 " Hoy's Red Fish" is described under the above name, from speci- 

 mens sent by Dr. Hoj', and from others examined from Bass 

 Creek, near Hanover, Wis. The following is Prof. Copeland's 

 description, with a few additional characters taken from the type 

 specimens which are now in my possession. 



Body short, stout, deep, chubby, moderatel}- compressed, the 

 depth about 4 in length ; dorsal outline elevated, the axis of the 

 body being about half nearer the ventral outline than the dorsal, 

 so that the form is quite unlike that of L. diplsemius. Caudal 

 peduncle rather short, not specially contracted. 



Head very short, deep, 4^ to 4i in length, its greatest depth 1^ 

 in its length, equal to the distance from front of eye to edge of 

 opercle. Snout blunt, shoi'ter than eye. Mouth large, ver}' 

 oblique ; more so than in an^- of the others, its angle full}^ 45°. 

 Lower jaw longest. Maxillary reaching to opposite anterior bor- 

 der of eye. A slight occipital depression. Interorbital space 

 wide, wider than eye. Eyes large, 3^ in head. 



Fin rays D. I. 8; A. I. 11 in one, I. 12 in others. 



Fins large. Dorsal well behind ventrals, with a large black 

 spot which involves the bases of the anterior rays, the whole spot 

 about equal to the eye in extent. Ijongest dorsal ray about equal 

 to head. Pectorals rather short and broad, not reaching ventrals. 




187Y.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 71 



Yentrals shortish, reaching anal. Anal long and high, its free 

 border concave. Dorsal considerably nearer caudal than snout. 

 Yentrals a little nearer snout than caudal. 



Lateral line with 46 scales, 9 rows above and 4 below it. Scales 

 small, much crowded anteriorl}'. Lateral line strongly decurved, 

 forming a broad and regular arc from opercle to opposite end of 

 dorsal, thence nearl}' straight to the tail. Dorsal scales small. 

 Region anterior to ventrals mostly naked. 



Whole top of head, lower jaw, lower part of cheeks, subopercle, 

 muzzle, whole region anterior to dorsal fin and down the sides 

 nearly to the pectorals, studded with small whitish tubercles in 

 the type specimens, which are spring males. 



These prominences are smaller and more crowded than in 

 dipleeviius. hi addition, minute asperities occur on the scales of 

 the sides and about the ventral fins. 



Color in spirits dark bluish above, pale below, not silvery. In 

 life, males with the sides and fins clear bright red, back and es- 

 specially tlie top of the head, a bright glaucous blue. Females 

 probably pale olivaceous. 



Length 2^ inches. Teeth 2, 4-4, 2, as in L. diplsemins. 



Habitat. Root R., Racine Co., Wis. (Hoy). Tributary of Rock 

 R. (Copeland). 



This species has been long known to Dr. Hoy and Dr. Kirtland, 

 but it has hitherto escaped description. Specimens were long 

 ago sent to Girard for description, but in some way they were 

 lost. L. cyanocephahis resembles L. diplaemius, but it is smaller 

 and more compact, with smaller fins. Dr. Kirtland's Leuciscus 

 diplemius is the male of Luxilus cornutus var. gibbus, Cope. His 

 Leuciscus compressus is probably, in part at least, the female of 

 Lythrurua diplsemius. 



21. Chrosomus erythrogaster, Rafinesque. 



In an unfinished MS. "Review of the genus Chrommus^^^ 

 Prof. Copeland shows that the current species of this genus, viz., 

 C. erythi-ogai^te?', Raf. (^ C. areas, Cope), C. piyrrhogaster, Jor- 

 dan (= C. erythrogasler, Ag.), and C. eos, Cope., are probably 

 forms or varieties of one species, the alleged distinctions provino- 

 quite illusive. 



Highly colored males of C. erythrogaster from Wisconsin have 

 the fins bright yellow, and the scales of nearly the whole body 




*12 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1817. 



provulecl with very minute tubercles, similar to those on the 

 head of llinnilus rahifrons. 



22. Moxostoma auisurum (Raf.)- 



Catostotnus anisurus of Kirtland, and undoubtedly that of Ra- 

 finesque also, is the fish lately called Ptychodomus collapsus b^' 

 Prof. Cope. P. velatus, Cope, seems to be the young of the same 

 species. 



23. Placopharynx carinatus, Cope. 



Proc. Am. Pliilos. Soc. 1870. 



Through the kindness of Dr. Levette, I have received a set of 

 the pharyngeal bones of this species. A member of the Geological 

 Survey informs me that they are found in a large, coarse species 

 of sucker, which is common in the spring at Terre Haute and 

 elsewhere on the Wabash. The genus and species were originally 

 based on a single specimen, but there can be no doubt as to their 

 validit}-. Since the above was written, I have seen another set 

 of these bones from the Falls of the Ohio, and also a skull and 

 part of the skeleton of this species, found in the Scioto R. at Co- 

 lumbus, Ohio, by Dr. J. M. Wheaton. 



24. Carpiodes dififormis, Cope. 



Proc. Am. Pbilos. Soc. 1870. 



The Ichthyobus difformis of Nelson (Bull. Ills. Mus. p. 49) is 

 Carpiodes cutisanserinus^ Cope. The two species are undoubtedly 

 distinct, although I once held the contrary opinion. 



25. Carpiodes carpio, Rafinesque. 



Carpiodes nummifer, Cope. Proc. Am. Philos. Soc. 1870. 



Although Rafinesque's Catoslomus (Carpiodes) carpio is said 

 to have 36 dorsal ra3's, yet his description so evidently refers to 

 this common species, that I have adopted his specific name. I do 

 not now think it necessary to unite Ichthyobus with Carpiodes. 



26. Ichthyobus bubalus, Rnfinesque. 



This species, which reaches quite a large size, differs from its 

 congeners in having the dorsal region but very little elevated, so 

 that the axis of the bodj' is very nearly midway between the dor- 

 sal and ventrals. 



A specimen from the Wabash R., 27 inches long, and weighing 

 15 lbs., showed the following characters; — 



Head == depth, 3^ in length; eye, small, 6j in head; depth of 

 liead, ^ its length; opercle, ver}' wide, convex, and furrowed; 




181Y.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. "73 



scales, very large; color, dull l)rownisli-olive, not silverj-. D. 11. 

 21 ; A. I, 9 ; lateral line, 40. 



27. Ichthyobus cyanellus, Nelson. 



Bull. Ills. Mus. Nat. Hist. 1876, 49. 



This species is undoubtedl}' distinct from all previously de- 

 scribed, unless it be 7. rauchii^ Ag. Specimens from St. Louis, 

 which I have identified as probabl}' /. rauchii, differ from Nelson's 

 types in several particulars, notably in the midway position of the 

 dorsal. What Agassiz's /. rauchii and I. sfollei/i reall}' are, no 

 one can tell from the descriptions. 



/. cyanellus differs from /. bubahis in having a much deeper 

 body, larger and higher dorsal, and smaller mouth. 



28. Ichtliyobus ischyrus, Nelson, sp. nov. 



In the Illinois State Collection, Mr. Nelson has found still an- 

 other species of this t3q)e, remarkable for the stout and deep body. 

 The following description has been forwarded by him for publi- 

 cation : — 



"This is a verj^ stout and heavih^ built species. Depth, 2^ in 

 length ; head, extremely broad between the e3'es and but slightly 

 convex ; its length 3^ times in length of bod}' ; snout, short and 

 rounded, opercular apparatus large; depth of head, li in its 

 length; width of head, 1^; eye, 6§ in head. If in snout, 4 in in- 

 terorbital space ; caudal peduncle a little deeper than long. 



"Scales, 7-3Y-7, nearly uniform, a little crowded anteriorly, 

 finely punctate. Fins, all small. Dorsal, I. 27; A. I. 8; bluish- 

 olive above, yellowish below; fins blackish." 



Type specimens 11^ inches long, from Mackinaw Creek in Cen- 

 tral Illinois, a tributary of Illinois R. Several younger specimens 

 also in the State Collection. 



29. Bubaliclithys altus, Nelson, sp. nov. 



" This specimen is very deep and much compressed. The back 

 is much arched and the profile descends steeply in front to end of 

 snout, not forming an angle with it as in many species of Icltthy- 

 obus. 



"Depth of body, 2| in length; head, 4 in length; greatest 

 thickness of body. If in length of head; depth of head, 1^ in its 

 length; width, H in length. E\'e, 5J in head, 2| in interorbital 

 space, which is but little rounded. 

 6 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



'• Lateral line perfectly straight from upper edge of opercle to 

 caudal. 



" Scales, 8-35-5. Dorsal I. 25 ; A. I. 9. 



" Color in spirits, dull 3'ello\vish-oIive ; fins dusk}'. 



"Type specimen 12 inches long, in Ills. State Museum, from 

 Cairo, Illinois." 



The t3'pe specimen I have examined. It is certainly distinct 

 from B. bubalus, Ag., and still more so from B. niger. B. vitulits^ 

 Ag., as far as one can tell, judging from the very superficial de- 

 scription, is also different. The most striking characters of B. 

 altus, are the great depth and compression of the body. 



30. Bubalichthys bubalus, Agassiz. 



f Catontomuii bubalus, Kirtland, Bost. Jouru. Nat. Hist, (not of Ra- 



finesque). 

 Bubalichthys bubalus, Agassiz, Am. Journ. So. Arts, 185.5. 



Four specimens of this species from the Mississippi River at 

 Quincy, Illinois, show the following characters: — 



Bod}' considerabl}' elevated and compressed above; the dorsal 

 region sub-carinate ; bell}' thicker. Depth 2| in length. Axis of 

 the body above the ventrals, below the lateral line and nearly 

 twice as far from the back as the belly. Greatest depth of body 

 at beginning of dorsal, which is in advance of ventrals, and a 

 trifle nearer the snout than the caudal. 



Head wide, rounded across the top, wider above eyes than 

 across cheeks. Interorbital space 2 in head. Head 4 in length of 

 body, its greatest depth 1^ in its length. Eye =; snout 4 in head, 

 much larger than in B. niger. 



Mouth small, notably smaller than in B. niger .^ and with thinner 

 lips, which are granulated and feebly plicate. Mandible about 

 equal to eye. Humeral and suborbital bones slightly different 

 from those of B. niger ^ quite unlike those of"/, rauchii.'' 



Pharyngeal bones very strong, with large teeth, which grow 

 larger downward. Intestinal canal long, longer than body. 



A decided occipital depression. Head triangular in outline, 

 viewed from the side. Ante-orbital region strongly elevated and 

 curved ; length of top of head 2f in distance from snout to occi- 

 ))»it. Nostrils large. 



Scales 8-40-G in two specimens, 8-39-6 in one, 7-39-5 in the 

 fourth. 



Fin rays, D. I. 28 in two, I. 29 in rest. A. I. 10, V. i. 10. 




1811.'] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 75 



Dorsal elevated in front and rapidly declined, the seventh ray 

 half the length of tlie third or longest. The latter reaches to the 

 base of the 18th ra}^, or more than half the base of the fin. Anal 

 reaching caudal, its ra3's rapidly shortened. Pectorals shorter 

 than anal, anal than ventrals, all than head. 



Length of specimens, three, 12^ inches, the fourth 12 inches. 

 The species probably does not reach a large size. 



It is probably best to retain the name bubalus for this fish, 

 although it is perliaps doubtful whether it is really Agasslz's spe- 

 cies, still more doubtful whether it is Kirtland's C. bubalus, and 

 finally it is certainly not Rafinesque's C. bubalus, which is an Ich- 

 thyobus. 



31. Babalichthys niger (Rafinesque), Agassiz. 



?f Catostomus (Ictiobiis) niger, Raf. Ich. Oh., 1820, 56. 

 Bubalichthys niger. Am. Journ. So. Arts, 1855. 



My specimens undoubtedly- belong to Agassiz's B. nige?^, but 

 Rafinesque's " entirelj'^ black, lateral line straight," are hardlj' 

 sufficient to characterize his species. 



Body much less elevated and less compressed than in B. buba- 

 lus, the back not at all carinated. Axis of body over the ventrals 

 about at the lateral line, and but an eighth or tenth further from 

 tlie dorsal line than the ventral. Greatest depth midway' of body 

 over ventrals and just in advance of dorsal. Depth 3^ in length. 



Head strongly transverseh* convex, almost ridged above, in 

 length, less narrowed downwards than in bubalus. Greatest 

 depth of head 1^ in its length. Interorbital space 2^. E3-e=snout 

 5^ in head, much smaller than in bubalus. Snout scared}^ pro- 

 jecting. No depression at occiput. An almost even curve from 

 snout to dorsal. Head bounded h}' curves, therefore not triangu- 

 lar, thicker, larger, and less pointed than in bubalus. 



Mouth large, with a large and pappillose lower lip. Mandible 

 longer than eye. 



Scales 8-41-7. 



Fin rays D. I. 30, A. I. 11. 



Dorsal not so high nor so rapidly depressed as in bubalus, the 

 longest ray scarcely half the length of the base of the fin, reaching 

 to the I5th, the 9th ray, half the height of tlie first. Anal reach- 

 ing caudal, its middle ra^'s more rounded, not so much shorter 

 than the first. Pectorals as long as ventrals, both longer than 

 anal and less than head. 




76 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [ISIt. 



Color as in other species of Ichthyobus and Bubalichthys, but 

 darker. Fins all black. 



Length of specimen, from which above measurements are takeu, 

 14 inches. 



Habitat. Quincj', Illinois. 



Supplement. 

 Remsion of Genera and other Ichthyological matters. 



XENOTIS, Jordan, gen. nov. 



I have for some time noticed a striking difference in the cha- 

 racter of the appendages to the anterior branchial arches in the 

 different genera of sunfishes. In Pomotis, and part of the species 

 of Lepomis, these appendages are soft, short, and blunt, similar 

 to those on the other gill arches. In the other genera, one of the 

 rows on the anterior arch is considerably modified — those on the 

 lower part of the arch, at least, being stiffer, more slender, and 

 very much longer than those in Pomotis. This character seems 

 to me a very important one, and one of generic value. In this 

 view I am supported by Prof. Cope. 



The original type of Lepoviis, Raf., was Labrus auritus of 

 authors, wiiich, with Prof. Gill, I identify as Ichthelis rubrico.uda, 

 Holbrook, one of the species with long gill appendages. The 

 name Lepomis remains, therefore, for those species with the gill 

 rakers long. 



For the species of the old genus Lejwmis^ with the gill appen- 

 dages short, I would propose the name of Xenotis. The type of 

 Xenotis is Pomotis fallax, B. & G. The full generic characters 

 are given above. 



The following species have been examined with reference to 

 this character : — 



Appendages long (Lepomis). Appendages short, imdifiFerentiated 



(Xenotis). 



Anritns, Linne (type). Fallax, B. & G. (type). 



Appendix, Mitchill. Sanguinolentns, Agassiz. 



Incisor, Cuv. & Val. Megalotis, Raf. 



Speciosus, B. & G. Nitidus, Kirtland. 



Obscnrus, Ag. Inscriptus, Agassiz. 



Aquilensis, Grd. Breviccps, B. & G. 



Anagallinus, Cope. Popii, Grd. 

 Oculatus, Cope. 

 Nephelus, Cope. 




18Yt.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. TT 



The following are the changes in nomenclature in the Gentrar- 

 chidas which are considered necessary' by Prof. Cope and the 

 writer : — 



(a) Pomofis, Cuvier, for Pomotis^ Raf. (1819). Rafinesque's 

 name can only be considered as a synonym of his own Le])omis. 

 Pomotis, if used at all, must stand as characterized by Cuvier, 

 who proposes it as a new genus, and makes no direct allusion to 

 Rafinesque. It does not seem necessary' to coin a new name for 

 this group. 



(6) ApomoHs, Raf. 1819, for Telipomis, Raf 1820 (Nelson 

 emend.). Apomotis was based on two species, cyanellus and 

 viacrochi7nis, the first of which seems to belong to this genus as 

 emended by us. In the Ichthyologia Ohiensis, the name Apomotis 

 was without reason changed to Telipomis. The species referred 

 by Cuvier to Bryttus probably belong to Apomotis^ but, as no 

 American author has recognized any of them, that point must at 

 present remain undecided. 



(c) Calliurus, Raf. 1819, for " Micropterus, Lacdpede, 1800" 

 (Gill emend.) z=Grystes, Huro^ Dioplites, etc., auct. Lacepede's 

 original description of his Micropterus dolomieu is absurd, but 

 his figure bears some resemblance to the black bass. Notwith- 

 standing the fact that Cuvier asserts that Lacepede's original 

 specimen, then still preserved in the museum, was identical with 

 Labrns sahnoides. Lac, since Lacepede found teeth on the tongue, 

 only five branchiostegals and two anal spines, Cuvier's identifica- 

 tion was uncertain and insufficient for the preservation of the 

 name. Cuvier himself thought the name unworthy of adoption 

 (" Le genre et I'espece du microptere doivent disparaitre du cata- 

 logue des poissons," Hist. Nat. des Pois., vol. v. p. v. Cuv. et 

 Val.). In view of this. Prof. Cope thinks that Micropterus (like 

 Aplocenirus, Pogostoiyia^ and Proceros, Raf.) should be rejected as 

 an unidentifiable mj-th, and the name next in order of priorit}' — 

 Calliurus, Raf. — be adopted as the generic name for tlie black 

 bass. 



EFISEMA, Cope and Jordan, gen. nov. 



Pharyngeal teeth with the principal series 4-4, of the raptorial 

 type, with acute edges. Alimentary canal short. Dorsal fin 

 standing immediately above the ventrals. Fin radii normal ; lips 

 soft, not enlarged; the upper protractile; no barbels. Lateral 

 line complete. ) 




78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



The above characters were formerly api)lie(l by Prof. Cope to 

 the genus Photogenis, but it appears that tlie dorsal tin is not 

 immediately above the ventral in P. spilojyterus, the type, which 

 must on this account be referred to the neighborhood of Minnilus. 



Four of the seven species referred b}' Prof. Cope to Pliotogenia 

 present the characters above enumerated, and one of them, the 

 P. scabriceps, is regarded as the type of the genus so defined. 

 As the name Photogenis was first employed for, and has been 

 specially attached to, the P. sjnlopterus, it cannot be used for the 

 P. scabriceps and its allies, so that a new name, Ejnsema, is now 

 proposed for the latter. 



The following species are at present referred to Episema: — 



Group I. Colors transparent, without pigment ; scales with usual surface 

 exposed. 



Episema leucioda. Cope. 

 Episema telescopus, Cope. 

 Episema piptolepis. Cope. 

 Episema scabriceps, Cope (type). 



Group II. Colors pigmented, brilliant ; exposed surfaces of scales more 

 narrow and high. 



Episema (?) pyrrhomelas, Cope. 

 Episema callisema, Jordan. 



The species last mentioned has the teeth in a single row. 

 Episema may be compared with related genera as follows : — 



Teeth raptatorial, with the principal series 4-4 ; lateral line complete ; 

 fiu radii normal ; no barbels ; lips soft, not enlarged. 

 a. Teeth with masticatory surface developed, 



b. Dorsal decidedly posterior to veutrals. Lythrurus. 

 bb. Dorsal over ventrals. 



d. Scales normal. Hybopsts. 



dd. Scales closely imbricated, the exposed surfaces high and 



narrow. Luxilus. 



an. Teeth with the edges crenate. Cyprinella. 

 aaa. Teeth entire without masticatory surface. 



e. Dorsal over ventrals. Episema. 



ee. Dorsal behind ventrals. Minnilus. 



Moniana^ Grd., is not generically distinct from Cyprinella, 

 Codoma and Cliola are, perhaps, synonymous with Minnilus. 

 Tigoma is an ^^ omnium gatherum,'^ the precise value of which is 

 not yet determined. 




IStl.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 79 



Uinnilus xaenurus, Jordan, sp. nov. 



Form moderately elongated, subfusiform, heavy forwards; the 

 head being decidedly like Luxilus. Depth i^ in length. 



Head stout, somewhat elongated, about 4 in length, the snout 

 but slightly overlapping the large, oblique mouth ; the maxillary 

 reaching the orbit. Head roundish above in males, with many 

 small, whitish tubercles, not much crowded, and arranged some- 

 what in rows — one or two rows of these extend backwards to the 

 dorsal ; several series of strong tubercles on each side of caudal 

 peduncle ; one along each row of scales. These are very striking, 

 and are apparently characteristic of this species. 



Scales high, closely imbricated, as in Luxilus cornutus, dark 

 edged, being i)unctate w'ith black. Lateral line with 37 scales 

 (36 to 39). 



Color dark-steel blue ; silvery below ; a faint black spot at base 

 of caudal. Fins mostly bright crimson red in males, the dorsal 

 largely black on its upper posterior part. Dorsal, anal, and 

 caudal tipped with white pigment ; belly, base of anal, ventral 

 and pectoral fins with white i)igment. 

 Eye large, 3| in head. 



Dorsal low, b^ in length of bod3\ Caudal fin large. Fin rays: 

 dorsal 1.8; anal 1.11 (1.10). Length 3 to 3j inches. 



Teeth 1, 4-4, 1, hooked, entire, without masticatory surface. 

 Hub. South Fork of the Ocmulgee River, at Flat Shoals, De 

 Kalb Co., Georgia. 



This species is one of the most beautiful of the Gyprinidse. 

 The long anal fin and the presence of rows of tubercles on the 

 caudal peduncle are striking characters. The latter feature sug- 

 gests the specific name (xaino, to scratch). It resembles Episema 

 pyr^rhomelas, Cope, but is distinguished at once by the generic 

 character of the backward dorsal. 



This species belongs to the subgenus of 3Iinmlus, which has 

 been called Photogenis. The following are the species of Minnilu>i 

 as at present understood — several species now referred to otlier 

 genera probably also belong here : — 



Subgenus Minnilus : colors transparent ; little or no pigment ; scales 

 normal. 



Minnilus arge, Cope. 



Minnilus dinemus, Raf. (type of genus). 



Minnilus jemezanus, Cope. 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



Minnilus Icpidulus (Grd.), C. & J. 

 Miunilus raicropteryx, Cope. 

 Minnilus matutiuns, Cope. 

 Minnilus rubellus (Ag.), C. & J. 

 Minnilus dilectus (Grd.), C. & J. 

 Minnilus amoeuus (Abbott), C. & J. 

 Minnilus megalops (Grd.), C. & J. 

 Minnilus amabilis (Grd.), Nelson. 

 Minnilus socius (Grd.), C. & J. 

 Minnilus stilbius, Jordan. 

 Minnilus umbratilis (Grd.), C. & J. 

 Minnilus percobromus. Cope. 

 Minnilus rubrifrons, Cope. 

 Minnilus altipinnis. Cope. 

 Minnilus oligaspis, Cope. 

 Minnilus simus. Cope. 

 Minnilus ariommus, Cope. 

 Minnilus pliotogenis. Cope. 



Subgenus Photogenis : colors brilliant, pigmentary ; scales imbricated, 

 so that the exposed surfaces are high and naiTow. 

 Minnilus spilopterus. Cope.- 

 Minnilus analostanus (Grd.), C. & J. 

 Minnilus eurystomus, Jordan. 

 Minnilus callistius, Jordan. 

 Minnilus stigmaturus, Jordan. 

 Minnilus coeruleus, Jordan. 

 Minnilus xaenurus, Jordan. 

 Minnilus lirus, Jordan. 



The last species has the teeth 2, 4-4, 2, as in Lythrurus; the 

 other colored species 1, 4-4, 1. 



Certain species of Ceraiichthtjs^ Baird, were separated from 

 that genus under the name of Nocomis^ Girard, before Geratich- 

 thys itself had ever been characterized. It seems necessary 

 therefore to substitute Nocomis for Ctratichlhys. 



Uozostoma anisuram, Raf. 



Catostomus {Moxostoma) anisiirua, Raf. Ich. Oh. (notof Ag.). 

 Catostomus anisurus^ Kirt. Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist. 



Prof. Cope, after examination of one of my specimens of this 

 species, dissents from my identification of Ptychostonms collapsus, 

 Cope, with it, considering the anisurum a related species, pre- 

 viousl}"^ unknown to him. I therefore give its full characters, 

 leaving the matter for further investigation. 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



Body compressed, short and stout, the back strongly elevated. 

 Depth 3§ in length, witliout caudal. 



Head 4^ in bodj', short and thick, with vertical cheeks and a 

 broad, flat, and steep interorbital space. Interorbital space equal 

 to snout, 2^ in head. Ej'e midway of head, 4 in length of head. 

 A prominent depression across nose. 



Mouth very small, the lower lip small, infolded, and A-shaped 

 behind. 



Pectorals small, reaching two-thirds the distance to the ven- 

 trals. Dorsal large; its height | lengtii of head; its last ray 

 half-way between snout and base of caudal. Eyes large and high 

 up. 



Scales 5-44-4. 



Fin rays: D. 1.15; A. l.S ; Y. 9. 



Color pale olivaceous; sides silvery; dorsal and caudal dark; 

 lower fins orange. 



Specimen described 12 inches long, from Lake Erie, at Toledo, 

 Ohio. 



Genera of Catostomidse. 



The genera of Gatostoviidse, accepted by Prof. Cope and the 

 writer, may be thus compared : — 



* Body oblong or elongate, with a short, subquadrate dorsal fin of 10 to 17 

 developed rays {Oatostomince, Gill), 

 f Air-bladder in three parts; lateral line present; fontanelle present; 

 scales large, subequal. 

 a. Pharyngeal bones very broad and strong ; the lower 7 to 10 teeth on 

 each side, greatly enlarged, smooth, and truncate above ; the teeth 

 on the upper part of the bone small, as usual in the family. 



Placopharynx, 1. 

 aa. Pharyngeal bones not specially enlarged ; the teeth of the usual 

 type. MoxosTOMA, 2. 



ff Air-bladder in two parts. 



b. No lateral line ; fontanelle present. Erimyzon, 3. 



bb. Lateral line well developed. 



c. Fontanelle distinct. Catostomus, 4. 



ce. Fontanelle obliterated by the union of the parietal bones. 



Pantosteus, 5. 

 ** Body much elongated, subcylindrical forwards ; dorsal elongate, falci- 

 form, of 30 or more rays ; fontanelle obliterated by the union of the 

 parietal bones {CycleptincB^ Gill). 



d. Mouth small, subinfcrior, with pappillose lips. 



Cycleptus, 6. 




82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1817. 



*** Body oblong oval, compressed ; dorsal elongate, elevated in front, of 

 20 or more raj's ; fontauelle present {Bubalichthyime, Gill). 



e. Pharyngeal bones narrow, with the teeth relativelj' thin 

 and weak. 

 /. Mouth small, inferior, protractile downwards ; fins often 



greatlj' elevated. Carpiodes, 7. 



ff. Mouth larger, subterminal, protractile forwards (species 

 of larger size, dusky colors, with lower dorsal). 



ICHTHYOBIS, 8. 



ee. Pharyngeal bones strong ; the teeth comparatively coarse 

 and large, increasing in size downwards ; dorsal fin 

 moderately elevated ; mouth inferior. 



BUBALICHTHYS, 9. 



Of the above genera, Carpiodes and Ichthyobus are doubtfully 

 distinct, such species as G. caiyio connecting them closely. 



Moocostoma, Rafinesque, 1820 (Jordan emend, 1876) is equiva- 

 lent to Ptychostonius^ Agassiz, ISoi =Te7'etulus, Cope, 1868. 

 Moxostoma, 'Raf., \s based on two species: Catostomus anisurua 

 and G. anisopterus. The latter, described '^ from a drawing by 

 Mr. Audubon," is unrecognizable or raj-thical ; the former is a 

 common species of "Red Horse," although Agassiz strangely 

 misconstrued both Rafinesque's and Kirtland's descriptions of it. 

 For C. anisurus and its numerous congeners, the name Moxostoma, 

 liaving clear priorit}', must obviousl}^ be retained. 




1871.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 83 



ON THE GENERA OF NORTH AMERICAN FRESH-WATER FISHES. 

 BY DAVID S. JORDAN AND CHARLES H. GILBERT. 



In the present paper, the antliors design to give in strict 

 chronological order the names of all the genera thus far proposed 

 which have been based on species of North American fresh-water 

 fishes. 



In the chronological catalogue is given under the head of each 

 genus (a) its author, (b) the place where it was first proposed, 

 and (c) its type species. In case no species is designated, either 

 explicitly or virtuall}', as the type of a genus, the species first 

 mentioned as belonging to it is, according to general custom, 

 considered as the intended type, 



A discussion of synonyms is next given ; and, finally, an 

 alphabetic list of genera with the etymolog}' of generic names 

 completes the paper. 



No distinction has been here made between names proposed for 

 '' genera" and for " subgenera." Most modern " subgenera" have 

 been at some time regarded as " genera," and most " subgenera" 

 have been proposed in the expectation that future writers would 

 elevate thein to generic rank. 



Generic names used without an}- sort of definition (e. g., Chei- 

 lobus, Glanis, Minicidus, 0])lictis^ Leplostoma^ etc., of Rafinesque, 

 Am. Monthly Magazine) have been left unnoticed, except in cases 

 (e.g., Apeltes, Dekay, Pygosleus, Brevoort) where reference to 

 some pi'eviously known species as the type is in itself a sort of 

 characterization. 



The authors have endeavored to ensure accuracy in quotations. 

 A few works, not at present accessible to tlicm, have been cited 

 at second hand. These cases are designated by the use of 

 quotation marks. 



Catalogtje. 



Year. Pnge- 



1766. Amia, Linnaeus, S3^stema Naturae I. " 500 



Amia calva, Linnaeus, 1766. 

 1798. Polyodon, Lacepede, Hist. Nat. des Poissons I. 402 



" P. feuille," Lac. 1798 (folium). {Sine patria.) 

 1802. Micropterus, Lacepede, "Hist. Nat. des Poissons lY." 32'4 



M. dolomieu, Lac. 1801. (Sine jmtria.) 




84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [187V. 



Year. Page. 



1803. Fundulus, Lacepede, Hist. Nat. cles Poissons V. 37 



F. mudfish, Lac. 1803. 



1803. Lepisosteus, Lacepede, Hist. Nat. des Poissons Y. 331 



L. gavialis, Lac. 1803. 

 1803. Hydrargira, Lacepede, Hist. Nat. des Poissons V. 378 



H. swampina, Lac. 1803. 



1803. Cyprinodon, Lacepede, Hist. Nat. des Poissons V. 486 



C. variegatus, Lac. 1803. 



1804. Spatularia, Shaw, General Zoology V. 362 



S. reticulata, Shaw, 1804. 

 1814. Morone, Mitchill, Report in Part on Fishes of New 



York. 18 



Morone pallida, Mitch. 1814. 

 1814. Roccus, Mitchill, Report in Part on Fishes of New 



York. 25 



R. striatus, Mitch. 1814. 



1817. Catostomus, LeSneur, Journal Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



L 89 



Cj'prinus catostomus, Forster (C. hudsonius, 

 LeS.). 



1818. Notropis, Raflnesque, Amer. Monthly Magazine II. 204 



N. atherinoides, Raf. 1818. 

 1818. Platirostra, LeSueur, Journal Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. I. 223 



P. edentula, LeS. 1818. 

 1818. Hiodon, LeSueur, Journal Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. I. 364 



H. tergisus, LeS. 1818. 

 1818. Glossodon, Raflnesque, Amer. Monthly Magazine II. 354 



G. harengoides, Raf. 1818. 



1818. Pomoxis, Raflnesque, Journal Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. I. 417 



P. annularis, Raf. 1818. 

 1818. Sarchirus, Raflnesque, Journal Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



L 419 



S. vittatus, Raf. 1818. 

 1818. Exoglossum, Raflnesque, Journal Acad. Nat. Sci. 



Phila. I. 420 



E. lesueurianura, Raf. 1818. 

 1818. Maxillingua, Raflnesque, Journal Acad. Nat. Sci. 



Phila. I. 421 



Cyprinus maxillingua, LeSueur, 1818. 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 85 



Year. Page. 



1818. Hjpenteliura, Rafinesque, Journal Acad. Xat. Sci. 421 

 Phila. I. 

 Exoglossum macropterum, Raf. 1818. 



1818. Litholepis, Rafinesque, Amer. Monthly Magazine III. 447 



L. adamantinus, Raf. 1818. 



1819. Aplodinotus, Rafinesque, Journal de Physique, etc. 418 



A. grunniens, Raf. 1819. 

 1819. Etheostoraa, Rafinesque, Journal de Phj'sique. 419 



E. flabellaris, Raf. 

 1819. Pogostoraa, Rafinesque, Journal de Phj'sique. 419 



P. leucops, Raf. 1819. 

 1819. Leucops, Rafinesque, Journal de Physique. 419 



Pogostoma leucops, Raf. 1819. 

 1819. Aplocentrus, Rafinesque, Journal de Ph^'sique. 419 



Bodianus calliops, Raf. 1818. 

 1819. Calliurus, Rafinesque, Journal de Phj^sique. 420 



C punctulatus, Raf. 1820. 

 1819. Lepomis, Rafinesque, Journal de Ph3'sique. 420 



Labrus auritus, " of authors." 

 1819. Pomotis, Rafinesque, Journal de Physique. 420 



(No type; Cuvier emend.; type P. vulgaris, 



C. & y.). 



1819. Apomotis, Raf., Journal de Phj-sique. 420 



Lepomis cyanellus, Raf. 1819. 

 1819. Xotemigonus, Rafinesque, Journal de Phj'sique. 420 



N. auratus, Raf. 1819. 

 1819. Amphiodon, Rafinesque, Journal de Physique. 421 



A.alveoides, Raf. 1819 (misprint for alosoides). 

 1819. Amblodon, Rafinesque, Journal de Ph3-sique. 421 



Teeth of Aplodinotus grunniens, ascribed to 

 A. bubalus, Raf. 1819, 

 1819. C^'cleptus, Rafinesque, Journal de Physique. 421 



C. nigrescens, Raf. 1819. 

 1819. Xoturus Rafinesque, Journal de Piiysique. 421 



X. luteus, Raf.1819. (Called X. flavus in 1818.) 



1819. Pylodictis, Rafinesque, Journal de Physique. 422 



P. limosus, Raf. 1819. 



1820. Lepibenia, Rafinesque, Ichthyologia Ohiensis. 23 



Perca chrj'sops, Raf. 1820. 




86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



Year. Page. 



1820. Stizostedion, Rafinesque, Iclithyologia Ohiensis. 23 



Perca salmonea, Raf. 1818. 

 1820. Poraacampsis, Rafinesque, Ichthyologia Ohiensis. 23 



Perca nigropunctata, Raf. 1820. 

 1820. Icthelis, Rafinesque, Ichthyologia Ohiensis. 27 



Labrus auritus, L. 

 1820. Telipomis, Rafinesque, Ichthyologia Ohiensis. 27 



No tj'pe (L. cyanellus, Raf. 1819, Nelson 

 emend.) 

 1820. Aplites, Rafinesque, Ichthyologia Ohiensis. 30 



Lepomis pallida, Raf. 1820. 

 1820. Nemocarapsis, Rafinesque, Ichthyologia Ohiensis. 31 



Lepomis flexuolaris, Raf. 1820. 

 1820. Dioplites, Rafinesque, Ichthyologia Ohiensis. 32 



Lepomis salmonea, Raf. 1820. 

 1820. Arabloplites, Rafinesque, Ichthyologia Ohiensis. 33 



Lepomis ictheloides, Raf. 1820. 

 1820. Aplesion, Rafinesque, Ichtlu'ologia Ohiensis. 36 



Etheostoraa calliura, Raf. 1820. 

 1820. Diplesion, Rafinesque, Ichthyologia Ohiensis. 37 



E. blennioides, Raf. 1819. 

 1820. Pomolobus, Rafinesque, Ichthyologia Ohiensis. 38 



P. chrysochloris, Raf 1820. 

 1820. Dorosoma, Rafinesque, Ichthyologia Ohiensis. 39 



D. notata, Raf. 1820. 

 1820. Clodalus, Rafinesque, Ichthyologia Ohiensis. 43 



Hyodon clodalus, LeSueur, 1818. 

 1820. Minnilus, Rafinesque, Ichthyologia Ohiensis. 45 



M. dinemus, Raf. 1820. 

 1820. Luxilus, Rafinesque, Ichthyologia Ohiensis. 47 



L. chrysocephalus, Raf 1820. 

 1820. Chrosomus, Rafinesque, Ichthyologia Ohiensis. 47 



Luxilus erythrogaster, Raf. 1820. 

 1820. Semotilus, Rafinesque, Ichthyologia Oliiensis. 49 



S. dorsalis, Raf. 1820. 

 1820. Pimephales, Rafinesque, Ichthyologia Ohiensis. 52 



P. promelas, Raf. 1 820. 

 1820. Moxostoma, Rafinesque, Ichthyologia Ohiensis. 54 



Catostomus anisurus, Raf. 1820. 




187T.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 87 



Year. Page. 



1820. Ictiobus, Rafinesque, Iclithyologia Obiensis. 55 



Amblodon bubalns, Raf. 1819. 

 1820. Carpiodes, Rafinesque, Iclithyologia Ohiensis. 56 



Catostomus c^'prinus, LeSuenr, 1817. 

 1820. Teretulus, Rafinesque, Ichtlij^ologia Ohiensis. 57 



No type. 

 1820. Eurystomus, Rafinesque, Ichthj'ologia Ohiensis. 60 



Catostomus megastomus, Raf. 1820. 

 1820. Decactylus, Rafinesque, Ichthyologia Ohiensis. 60 



Catostomus bostoniensis, LeSueur, 1817. 

 1820. letalurus, Rafinesque, Ichthj'ologia Ohiensis. 62 



Silurus maculatus, Raf. 1819. 

 1820. Elliops, Rafinesque, Ichthyologia Ohiensis. 62 



Silurus maculatus, Raf 1819. 

 1820. Leptops, Rafinesque, Ichthyologia Ohiensis. 64 



Silurus viscosus, Raf. 1819. 

 1820. Opladelus, Rafinesque, Ichthyologia Ohiensis. 64 



Silurus nebulosus, Raf. 1819. 

 1820. Ameiurus, Rafinesque, Ichthyologia Ohiensis. 65 



Silurus cupreus, Raf 1819. 

 1820. Ilictis, Rafinesque, Ichthj'ologia Ohiensis. 66 



Silurus liraosus, Raf 1819. 

 1820. Picorellus, Rafinesque, Ichthyologia Ohiensis. 70 



Esox vittatus, Raf 1818. 

 1820. Cylindrosteus, Rafinesque, Ichthyologia Ohiensis. 72 



Lepisosteus platostomus, Raf 1820. 

 1820. Atractosteus, Rafinesque, Ichthj^ologia Ohiensis. 73 



Lepisosteus ferox, Raf. 1820. 

 1820. Sturio, Rafinesque, Ichthyologia Ohiensis. 79 



Accipenser maculosus, LeSueur, 1817. 

 1820. Sterletus, Rafinesque, Ichthyologia Ohiensis. 80 



Accipenser sterletus, Raf 1820. 

 1820. Dinectus, Rafinesque, Ichthyologia Ohiensis. 82 



Dinectus truncatus, Raf 1820. 

 1820. Pegedictis, Rafinesque, Ichthyologia Ohiensis. 84 



P. ictalops, Raf 1820. 

 1820. Proceros, Rafinesque, Ichthyologia Ohiensis. 87 



P. maculatus, Raf 1820. 




88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18Y7. 



Year. 



1821. MoUienesia, LeSueur, Journal of Acad. Nat. Sci. 3 

 Phila. II. 

 M. latipinna, LeS. 1821. 



1828. Huro, Cuvier and Valenciennes, Poissons II. 92 



H. nigricans, C. & Y. 1828. 



1829. Grystes, Cuvier and Valenciennes, Poissons III. 40 



Labrus salmoides, Lacepede, 1800. 

 1829. Centrarchus, Cuvier, Poissons III. 62 



Labrus irideus, Lac. 1802. (Agass. emend.) 

 1829. Pomotis, Cuv. & Val., Poissons III. 67 



P. vulgaris, C. & V. 1829. 

 1831. Bryttus, Valenciennes, Poissons VII. 346 



B. punctatus, C. & V. 1831. 

 1833. Aphredoderus, LeSueur, Poissons IX. 329 



A. gibbosus, LeSueur, 1833. 



1835. Scaphirhynchus, Heckel, "Ann. Wien. Mus. T." 11 



S. rafinesquii, Heck. 1835. 

 1842. Percina, Haldeman, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



VIIL 330 



Perca nebulosa, Hald. 1842. 

 1842. Pileoma, Dekaj', New York Zoology, Fishes. 16 



P. seraifasciata, Dek. 1842. 

 1842. Boleosoma, Dekay, Nat. Hist. N. Y., Fishes. 20 



B. tessellatuni, Dek. 1842. 



1842. Uranidea, Dekay, Nat. Hist. N. Y., Fishes. 61 



U. quiescens, Dek. 1842. 

 1842. Apeltes, Dekay, Nat. Hist. N. Y., Fishes. 67 



Gasterosteus quadracus, Mitchill, 1815. 

 1842. Argyrea, Dekay, Nat. Hist. N. Y., Fishes. 141 



Atherina notata, Mitchill, 1815. 

 1842. Amblyopsis, Dekay, Nat. Hist. N. Y., Fishes. 187 



A. spehBUS, Dek. 1842. 



1842. Stilbe, Dekay, Nat. Hist. N. Y., Fishes. 204 



Cyprinus chrysoleucus, Mitchill, 1814 



1842. Baione, Dekay, Nat. Hist. N. Y., Fishes. 244 



B. fontinalis, Dek. 1849. 



1843. Glossodon, Heckel, "Russeggor's Reisen I." 1033 



Cyprinus (Abramis?) smithii, Richardson, 

 1836. 




1871.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 89 



Year. Page. 



1843. Argja'eus, Heckel, "Russegger's Reisen I." 1040 

 Cyprinus atrouasus, Mitchill, 1815. 



1843. Leucosomus, Heckel, "Russegger's Reisen T." 1042 



L. chiysoleucus, Heck. 1840 (not of Mitchill) 

 = L. pulchellus, Storer. 



1844. Sclerognathus, Cuvier and Valenciennes, Poissons 



XYII. 351 



Catostomus cj'prinus, LeSueur, 1817. 

 1850. Percopsis, Agassiz, Lake Superior. 284 



P. guttatus, Ag. 1850. 

 1850. Poecilosoma, Agassiz, Lake Superior. 299 



Etheostoma variatum, Kirtland, 1838. 

 1850. Argyrosomus, Agassiz, Lake Superior. 339 



Salmo clupeiformis, Mitchill, 1818. 

 1850. Rhinichthj^s, Agassiz, Lake Superior. 353 



Cyprinus atronasus, Mitchill, 1815. 

 1850. Salmoperca, Thompson, Proc. Bost. Soc. III. 164 



Percopsis pellucidus, Thomp. 1851. 



1850. Cottopsis, Girard, Proc. Bost. Soc. IIL 303 



Cottus asper, Richardson, 1836. 



1851. Triglopsis, Girard, Proc. Bost. Soc. IV. 16 



T. thompsonii, Grd. 1851. 



1853. Gila, Baird and Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila. 



N. S. VL 368 



G. robusta, B. & G. 1853. 



1854. Chologaster, Agassiz, Am. Jonrn, Sc. and Arts. 135 



C. cornutus, Ag. 1854. 

 1854. Heterandria, Agassiz, Am. Journ. Sc. and Arts. 135 



H. holbrookii, Ag. Mss. 

 1854. Zygonectes, Agassiz, Am. Journ. Sc. and Arts. 135 



Poecilia olivacea, Storer, 1845. 

 1854. Melanura, Agassiz, Am. Journ. Sc. and Arts. 135 



Exoglossum aunulatum, Rafinesque, 1848. 

 1854. Poecilichthys, Agassiz, Am. Journ. Sc. and Arts. 304 



Etheostoma variatum, Kirtland, 1838. 

 1854. Catonotus, Agassiz, Am. Journ. Sc. and Arts. 305 



C. lineolatus, Ag. 1854. 

 1854. Hadropterus, Agassiz, Am. Journ. Sc. and Arts. 305 



H. nigrofasciatus, Ag. 1854. 

 7 




90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18Y7. 



Tear. Page. 



1854. Hyostoma, Agassiz, Am. Journ. Sc. and Arts. 305 



H. newmanii, Ag. 1854. 

 1854. Hj'bopsis, Agassiz, Am. Journ. Sc. and Arts. 358 



H. gracilis, Ag. 1854. 

 1854. Hypsolepis, Baird, Mss. in Agassiz, Am. Journ. Sc. 



and Arts. 359 



Cj^prinus cornutus, Mitchill, 1818. 

 1854. Herichthys, Baird and Girard, Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila. 25 



H. c3'anoguttatus, B. & G. 1854." 

 1854. Astyanax, Baird and Girard, Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila. 26 



A. argentatus, B. & G. 1854. 

 1854. Atherinopsis, Girard, Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila. 184 



Atherina menidia, Linnaeus, 1766. 

 1854. Pogonichthys, Girard, Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila. 136 



P. inajquilobus, B. & G. 1854. 

 1854. Lavinia, Girard, Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila. 13T 



L. exilicauda, B. & G. 1854. 



1854. Coclilognathus, Baird and Girard, Acad. Nat. Sc. 



Phila. 150 



C. ornatus, B. & G. 1854. 



1855. Cheilonemus, Baird, in Storer, Hist. Fishes of Mass. 285 



Leuciscus pulchellus, Storer, 1838. 

 1855. Bubalichthys, Agassiz, Araer. Journ. Sc. and Arts. 192 



Carpiodes urns, Ag. 1854. 

 1855. Ptychostomus, Agassiz, Am. Journ. Sc. and Arts. 203 



Catostomus aureolus, LeSueur, 1817. 

 1855. Ilylomj'zon, Agassiz, Am. Journ. Sc. and Arts. 205 



Catostomus nigricans, LeSueur, 1817. 

 1855. Aci'ocheilus, Agassiz, Am. Journ. Sc. and Arts. 211 



A. alutaceus, Ag. 1855. 

 1855. Campostoma, Agassiz, Am. Journ. Sc. and Arts. 218 



Rutilus anomalus, Rafinesque, 1820. 

 1855. Ilyborhynchus, Agassiz, Am. Journ. Sc. and Arts. 223 



Minnilus notatus, Rafinesque, 1820. 

 1855. Ilybognathus, Agassiz, Am. Journ. Sc. and Arts. 223 



H. nuchalis, Ag. 1855. 

 1855. Ptychocheilus, Agassiz, Am. Journ. Sc. and Arts. 227 



P. gracilis, Ag. 1855. 

 1855. Mylocheilus, Agassiz, Am. Journ. Sc. and Arts. 229 



M. lateralis, Ag. 1855. 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 91 



Year. Page, 



1855. Mylopharodon, Ayres, Cal. Acad. Sciences. 33 



M. robustus, Ayres, 1855. 



1856. Minomus, Girard, Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila. 173 



Catostomus insignis, B. & G. 1854. 

 1856. Acomus, Girard, Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila. 173 



Catostomus forsterianus, Richardson, 1836. 

 1856. Dionda, Girard, Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila. 176 



D. episcopa, Grd. 1856. 

 1856. Algoma, Girard, Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila. ISO 



A. amara, Grd. 1856. 

 1856. Orthodon, Girard, Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila. 182 



Gila microlepidotus, Aj-res, 1855. 

 1856. Algansea, Girard, Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila. 182 



Leuciscns tincella, Valenciennes, 1854. 

 1856. Agosia, Girard, Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila. 186 



A. chrysogaster, Grd. 1856. 

 1856. Noconiis, Girard, Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila. 190 



N. nebracensis, Grd. 1856. 

 1856. Meda, Girard, Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila. 191 



M. fulgida, Grd. 1856. 

 1856. Cliola, Girard, Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila. 192 



Ceratichthys vigilax, B. & G. 1853. 

 1856. Alburnellus, Girard, Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila. 193 



Alburnus dilectus, Grd. 1856. 

 1856. Alburnops, Girard, Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila. 194 



Alburnops blenuius, Grd. 1856. 

 1856. Codoma, Girard, Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila. 194 



C. ornata, Grd, 1856. 

 1856. Cyprinella, Girard, Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila. 196 



Leuciscus bubalinus, B. & G. 1853. 

 1856. Moniana, Girard, Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila. 199 



Leuciscus lutrensis, B. & G. 1853. 

 1856. Richardsonius, Girard, Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila. 201 



Abramis balteatns, Richardson, 1836. 

 1856. Tiaroga, Girard, Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila. 204 



T. cobitis, Grd. 1856. 

 1856. Tigoma, Girard, Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila. 205 



Gila pulchella, B. & G. 1854. 




92 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [18TT. 



Year. Page. 



185G. Cheonda, Girard, Acad. Xat. Sc. Phila. 207 



C. cooperi, Grd. 1856. 

 1856. Siboma, Girard, Acad. Xat. Sc. Phila. 209 



Laviuia crassicauda, B. & G. 1854. 

 1856. Hudsoiiius, Girard, Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila. 210 



Clupea hudsonia, Clinton, 1824. 

 1856. Clinostomus, Girard, Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila. 211 



Luxilus elongatus, Kirtland, 1838. 

 1856. Ceratichth^'s, Baird, Ms.s. in Grd., Proc, Acad. Nat. 



Sc. Phila. N. S. YI. 212 



Semotilus biguttatus, Kirtland, 1840. 

 1859. Scolecosoma, Girard, Report Pac. R. R. Survey X. 384 



Aramocoetes concolor, Kirtland, 1841. 

 1859. Typhlichthys, Girard, Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila. 63 



T. siibterraneus, Grd. 1859. 

 1859. Arlina, Girard, Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila. 64 



A. effulgens, Grd. 1859. 

 1859. Estrella, Girard, Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila. 65 



E. atromaculatus, Grd. 1859. 

 1859. Oligocephahis, Girard, Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila. 67 



Poecilichthys Icpidus, Grd. 1858. 

 1859. Alvordius, Girard, Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila. 68 



A. niaculatus, Grd. 1859. 

 1859. Alvarius, Girard, Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila. 101 



A. lateralis, Grd. 1859. 



1859. Boleichthys, Girard, Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila. 103 



B. exilis, Grd. 1859. 



1859. Adinia, Girard, Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila. 117 



A. multifasciata, Grd. 1859. 

 1859. Lucania, Girard, Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila. 118 



Limia venusta, Grd. 1858. 



1859. Synechoglanis, Gill, Ann. N. Y. Lyceum Nat. Hist. 40 



S. beadlii. Gill, 1859. 



1860. Stenodus Richardson. . 



Salmo Mackcnzii Rich. 1823. 

 1860. Asproperca Ileckel. Syst. der Percoiden. 311 



A. zebra Heckel. Mss. 

 1860. Ptyonotus, Giinther, Catalogue of Fishes II. 175 



Triglopsis thorapsonii, Grd. 1851. 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 93 



Year. Page. 



1860. Potamocottus, Gill, Proc. Boston Soc. Xat. Hist. 41 



P. punctulatus, Gill, 1860. 



1860. Girardinichthys, Bleeker, "Cyprinodonts." 481 



G. innominatus, Bleek. 1860. 



1861. Archoplites, Gill, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sc. Phila. 165 



Ambloplites iuterruptus, Girard, 1859. 

 1861. Platygobio, Gill. 



Pogonichth3^s communis, Grd. 1854. 



1861. Pj^gosteus, Brevoort, in Gill's Cat. of Fishes of East 



Coast. 39 



Gasterosteus occidentalis, Cuvier and Valen- 

 ciennes, 1829. 



1862. Entospbenus, Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc.Phila. 331 



Petromjmon trideutatus, Baird. 



1862. Hypsifario, Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 331 



Salmo kennerlyi. Suckle^-. 



1863. Nothonotus, Agassiz, in Putnam's Bull. Mus. Comp. 



Zool. I. 3 



Etheostoma maculata, Kirtland, 1838. 

 1863. Microperca, Putnam, Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. I. 4 



M. punctulata, Put. 1863. 

 1863. Hololepis, Agassiz, in Putnam's Bull. Mus. Comp. 



Zool. I. 4 



Boleosoma barrattii, Holbrook, 1855. 

 1863. Cottogaster, Putnam, Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. I. 4 



Boleosoma tessellatum, Thompson, 1853. 



1863. Pleurolepis, Agassiz, Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. I. 5 



Etheostoma pellucidum, Baird Mss. 1863. 

 1863 (?). Schilbeoides, Bleeker, "Act. Soc. Sc. Indo-Nederl. 



lY." 258 



Siluris gyrinus Mit. 1818. 



1864. Mesogonistius, Gill, Am. Journ. Sc. and Arts. 92 



Pomotis chsetodon, Baird, 1855. 

 1864. Enneacanthus, Gill, Am. Journ. Sc. and Arts. 92 



Pomotis obesus, Girard, 1844. 

 1864. Acantharchus, Gill, Am. Journ. Sc. and Arts. 92 



Centrarchus pomotis, Baird, 1855. 

 1864. Ilyperistius, Am. Journ. Sc. and Arts. 92 



Centrarchus hexacanthus, Cuvier, 1831. 




94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



Year. Page. 



1864. Chaenobryttus, Gill, Am. Journ. Sc. and Arts. 92 



Calliurus melanops, Girarcl, 1857. 



1864. Eucentrarchus, Gill, Ara. Journ. Sc. and Arts. 93 



Perca iridea, Bosc. 17 — (no descr.). 



1864. Gronias, Cope, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sc. Phila. 231 



G. nigrilabris. Cope, 1864. 



1865. Ericj'-mba, Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila. 88 



E. buccata, Cope, 1865. 

 1865. Stilbius, Gill, Canadian Naturalist. 18 



Cj'^prinus americanus, Lacepede, 1800. 



1865. Micristius, Gill, Canadian Naturalist. 24 



Fundulus zonatus, Cuvier and Valenciennes. 



1866. Luciotrutta, Giinther, Catalogue Fishes YI. 164 



Sahno mackenzii, Richardson, 1823. 

 1866. Limnurgus, Giinther, Catalogue Fishes VI. 309 



L. variegatus, Gnthr. 1866. 



1866. Photogenis, Cope, Trans. Am. Phil. Soc. 378 



P. spilopterus, Cope, 1866. 



1867. Phenacobius, Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila. 96 



P. teretulus, Cope, 1867. 



1869. Hemioplites, Cope, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila. 217 



H. simulans, Cope, 1868. 



1870. Hypohomus, Cope, Proc. Am. Phil. Soc. 449 



Cottogaster aurantiacus. Cope, 1870. 

 1870. Labidesthes, Cope, Proc. Am. Phil. Soc. 455 



Chirostoma sicculura, Cope, 1865. 

 1870. Hemitremia, Cope, Proc. Ara. Phil. Soc. 462 



H. vittata. Cope, 1870. 

 1870. Placopharynx, Cope, Proc. Am. Phil. Soc. 467 



P. carinatus, Cope, 1870. 

 1872. Coliscus, Cope, Hayden's Geol. Sur. Wyoming, 1870. 437 



C. parietalis, Cope, 1872. 

 1872. Sarcidium, Cope, Hayden's Geol. Sur. Wyoming, 



1870. 440 



S. scopifcrum, Cope, 1872. 

 1872. Apocope, Cope, Hayden's Geol. Sur. Wyoming, 1871. 472 



A. carringtonii, Cope, 1872. 

 1872. Protoporus, Cope, Hayden's Geol. Sur. Wyoming, 473 

 1871. 



P. domninus. Cope, 1872. 




IS11.'] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 95 



Year. Page. 



]8T2. Mj^loleucns, Cope, Hayden's Geol. Sur. "W^'oming. 475 



M. pulverulentus, Cope, 1872. 

 1873. Plesioperca, LeVaillant, Nouvelles Archives du Mu- 

 seum. 36 



P. anceps, LeY. 1874. 



1873. Astatichthys, LeVaillant, Nouv. Arch. Mus. 106 



Etheostoma Cferulea, Storer, 1845. 



1874. Plagopterus, Cope, Proe. Am. Phil. Soc. 130 



P. argentissimus, Cope, 1874. 

 1874. Lepidomeda, Cope, Proc. Am. Phil. Soc. 131 



L. vittata, Cope, 1874. 

 1876. Erimyzon, Jordan, Bull. Buff. Kat. Hist. Soc. 95 



Cyprinus oblongus, Mitchill, 1815. 

 1876. Eritrema, Cope, Lieut. Wheeler's Survey west of 



100th meridian. 645 



Apocope henshavii, Cope, 1876. 

 1876. Pautosteus, Cope, Lieut. Wheeler's Survey west of 



100th meridian. 673 



Minomus platyrh3'nchus. Cope, 1874. 

 1876. Glossoplites, Jordan, Manual Vertebrates, E. U. S. 233 



Calliurus melanops, Girard, 1857. 

 1876. Eutychelithus, Jordan, Manual Vertebrates, E. TJ. S. 242 



Corvina richardsonii, Cuvier and Valenciennes, 

 1830. 

 1876. Eucalia, Jordan, Manual Vertebrates, E. U. S. 248 



Gasterosteus inconstans, Kirtland, 1840. 

 1876. Lythrurus, Jordan, Manual Vertebrates, E. U. S. 272 



Semotilus diplemius, Rafinesque, 1820. 

 1876. Erinemus, Jordan, Manual Vertebrates, E. U. S. 279 



Ceratichthys hyalinns. Cope, 1869. 

 1876. Sternotremia, Nelson, Bull. 111. Mus. Xat. Hist. 39 



S. isolepis, Nelson, 1876. 

 1876. Copelandia, Jordan, Bull. Buff. Soc. Nat. Hist. 137 



C. eriarcha, Jord. 1876. 

 1876. Xenisma, Jordan, Bull. Buff. Soc. Nat. Hist. 142 



X. stellifera, Jord. 1876. 

 1876. Scaphirh3aichops, Gill, Mss. in Jordan and Copeland 161 

 Bull. Buff. Soc. Nat. Hist. 



Acipenser platorynchus, Rafinesque, 1820. 




96 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[187^. 



Year. 



1877. 



1877. 

 1877. 



Page. 

 49 



76 



Imostoma, Jordan, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Pliila. 



Hadropterus shumardii, Grd. 1859. 

 Xenotis, Jordan, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila. 



Pomotis fallax, B. & G. 1854. 

 Episema, Cope & Jordan, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sc. Phila. 77 



Photogenis scabriceps, Cope, 1867. 



II. Syxonyms. 



The members of each of the following sets of genera appear to 

 be founded on the same type species. In case no type is suggested 

 by the original author, one of the species mentioned by him must 

 be selected as the t3'pe. By the rule of exclusion, now largely 

 adopted by sj'stematic writers, some one of the species left after 

 different genera may have been subtracted is to be considered as 

 the type of the original genus, whether such type be the species 

 first mentioned or not. Of such exact synonyms only the name 

 first proposed should be employed, according to the rules of 

 zoological nomenclature, unless for some reason the prior name 

 be not available. The name to be adopted is in italics. 



Type species. 

 Etheostoma variata Kirt., 



Etheostoma olmstedi Storer, 

 Sciasna caprodes Raf., 

 Calliurus melanops Grd., 

 Perca iridea Bosc, 

 Labrus salmoides Lac. 



Aplodinotus grunniens Raf., 



Triglopsis thompsoni Grd., 

 Lucania sp, incog. Grd., 

 Percopsis guttatus Ag., 

 Salmo raackenzii Rich., 

 Hiodon tergisus Le S., 



Oenera. 

 Poecilosoma (preoccupied), Poeci- 



lichthys, Astatichthj's. 

 Boleosoma, ? Arlina, Estrella. 

 Percina, Pileoma, Asproperca. 

 Chae7iobryttus, Glossoplites. 

 Ceiitrarchus, Eucentrarchus. 

 Microptei'us.1 Calliurus, Lepomis, 

 Aplites, Nemocampsis, Diopli- 

 tes, Grystes. 

 Aplodinotus {Haploidonolus)^ 



Amblodon. 

 Triglopsis, Ptyonotus. 

 Girardinichthys, Limnnrgus. 

 Percopsis, Salmoperca. 

 Ste7wdus, Luciotrutta. 

 Hiodon {Hyodon), Glossodon 

 (Raf.), Amphiodon, Clodalus, 

 Glossodon (Ileck.) 




187T.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



91 



Type species. 

 Cyprinus cornutus Mit,, 

 Cyprinus atronasus Mit. 



Lenciscus argenteiis Storer, 

 Cj'prinus maxillingua Le S., 

 Cj'^pi'inus Americanus Lac, 

 Catostomus nigricans Le S., 



Catostomus cyprinus Le S., 

 Silurus olivaris Raf., 



Silurns pimctatus Raf., 

 Litholepis adainantinus Raf., 

 Polyodon folium Lac, 



Acipenser platyrhj-nchus Raf, 



Esox osseus Linn., 



Genera. 

 Liixilus, Hypsolepis. 

 Arj'greus (preoccupied), ^/(2?n'c/i- 



fhys. 

 Leucosomus, Cheilonemus. 

 Exoglosainn, Maxillingua. 

 Notemigonus^ Stilbe, Stilbius. 

 Hypenteliura, ? Eurystomus, H}'- 



lon\vzon. 

 Ccnyiodes, Sclerognathus. 

 Glanis (not char.), Pylodictis (er- 

 roneous), Leptops, Opiadelus 



(Hopladelus), Ilictis. 

 Ictalurus, Elliops. 

 Litholepis, Atractosteus. 

 Polyodon, Spatularia, Platirostra 



(Planirostra). 

 Scaphirhynchus (preoccupied), 



Scaphirhynchops. 

 Lepisosteus (Lepidosteus), Sar- 



chirus. 



III. Summary. 



The foregoing catalogue comprises 225 names of genei'a and 

 subgenera, whereof about 128 seem to be entitled to generic rank, 

 and the remaining 97 are either synonyms, or else entitled to use 

 onh' as designations for sections and subgenera in works where 

 the recognition of such groups b}' name seems desirable. 



A list of the authors referred to is here given, with the number 

 of genera proposed bj' each, classified as valid and invalid as above 

 indicated. Of course, until unanimity is reached in matters of 

 nomenclature such an arrangement is extremely arbitrary. 




98 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[isn. 



Aicthors. 



Rafinesque 



Girard 



Agassiz 



Cope 



Gill . 



Jordan 



Dekay 



Lacepede 



Le Sueur 



Cuvier and 



Heckel 



Baird and 



Baird 



Bieeker 



Giintber 



Putnam 



Le Vaillan 



Mitchill 



Linnteus 



Shaw 



Haldeman 



Kichardson 



Thompson 



Aja'es 



Brevoort 



Nelson 



Cope & Jordan 



Total 



Valid Genera. Suhgenera and Total. 



Valenciennes 



Girard 



128 



IV. NOMENCLATOR. 



97 



1864. Acantharchus : akanlha^ B^ino. — a7'c/ios, anus. 



1856. Acomus : vox euphon. 



1855. Acrocheilus: aZ;ros, sharp — c/iezVos, lip. 

 1859. Adinia: vox euphon. 



1856. Agosia: vox euphon. 



1856. Alburnellus: Alburnus. (Latin, albus, white.) 



1856. Alburnops: Alburnus — 0j5s, appearance. 



225 




18V1.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 99 



1856. Algansea: vox euphoii. 



1856. Algoina: vox barbar. 



1859. Alvarius : vox euphon. 



1859. Alvordius: Ded. to Major B. Alvord. 



1819. Amblodon: amblus, hlnnt — odon, tooth. 



1820. Ambloplites: amblus, blunt — hopliti's, armed. 

 1842. Ambl3'opsis : amblus, blunt, opsis, vision. 



1820. Ameiurus : a, privative — meiouros, curtailed (notched). 



1766. Amia: aviia, name of some sea fish; probably Sarda 

 pelamys. 



1819. Amphiodon : amjohi, on all sides — odon, tooth. 

 1842. Apeltes : a, privative — pelte, a shield. 



1833. Aphredoderus: aphros, foam. — (Zei?-e, neck. 



1820. Aplesion: AapZoos, single — -pZestow, near. 

 1820. Aplites : haploos, single — hoplites, armed. 

 1819. Aplocentrus: hcqjloos, single — kentron, s\nne. 



1819. Aplodinotus: haploos, single — 7i6tos, back (dorsal fin). 



1812. Apocope: apokope, a deficiency (lateral line). 



1819. Apomotis: a, privative — 2^o7?ia, opercle — ous, ear. 

 1861. Archoplites : arc/ios, anal — /io^jZi7es, armed. 

 1842. Argyrea : argureos, silvery. 



1840. Argjn-eus: arcjureos, %\\vQvy. 



1850. Arg3'rosomus: argru/'os, silver — soma, bod3^ 



1859. Arlina: vox euphon. 



1860. Asproperca: Aspro — Perca. 



1874. Astatichthys : astaios, inconstant, never standing still — 



icJithus, fish. 



1854. Astyanax: astuanax, the son of Hector. 



1854. Atherinopsis: atherine, some small fish — opsis, appear- 



ance {athar, an arrow). 



1820. Atractosteus : atraktos, spindle dart — osteon, bone. 

 1842. Baione : baion, some small fish known to the ancieuts. 

 1859. Boleichthys: bolis, a dart — ichthus, fish. 



1842. Boleosoma: bolis, a davt — s67?ia, body. 



1831. Brj^ttus: brutto, to grow]. 



1855, Bubalichthys, boubalos, a buffalo — ichthus, fish. 



1819. Calliurus: ^a/os, beautiful — oura, tail. 

 1855. Campostoma: kamj^e, curve — stoma, mouth. 



1820. Carpiodes: hat. carpio, a, carp. 

 1854. Catouotus: ^a^o, low — notes, back. 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1871. 



1817. Catostomus: ^a^o, low — stoma, mouth. 



1829. Centrarclius : kentro7i, s\:)[ne—archoi<, aims. 



1853. CeraticMliys : keras, horn — ichthus, fish. 



1864. Clisenobryttus : chaino, to gape, to yawn — Bryttus. 



1855. Cheiloneraus: c/te^7os, lip — ?iema, thread (barbel). 



1856. Cheoncla: vox enphon. 



1854. Chologaster: c7jo/os, maimed — gaster, belly (ventral fins). 

 1820. Chrosomus: c/iros, color — soma, bod}'. 



1856. Clinostomus: ^/ijici, to incline — «io??ia, mouth. 



1856. Cliola: vox euphon. 



1820. Clodahis. 



1854. Cochlognathus: ^"oc7;7o8, shell— 5^?! ai!/ios, jaw. 



1856. Codoma: vox euphon. 



1872. Coliscus: ^oZos, a deficiency. 



1876. Copelandia: Ded. to Herbert Edson Copeland. 



1863. Cottogaster: ^o/Zos, sculpin — yas^er, belly. 

 1850. Cottopsis, Cottus : ops^■s, appearance. 



1819. Cycleptus: kuklos, circle — leptos, slender (small round 



mouth). 



1820. Cylindrosteus: ^MZwjc^ros, cylinder — osteon, bone. 

 1856. Cyprinella: Cyprinus. 



1803. Cyprinodon: kuprinos, ca\'\} — odon, tooth. 



1820. Decactylus: dekas, ten — tulos, nail (ventral rays). 



1820. Dinectus: cZis, two — nektes, s,vi\mmQ\\ 



1856. Dionda : vox euphon. 



1820. Dioplites : clis, two — lioplltes, armed. 



1820. Diplesion : dis, two — pjlesion, near (dorsal fin). 



1820. Dorosoma : doi'u, lance — soma, body. 



1820. Elliops: (elliptical eyes). 



1864. Enneacanthus : ennea,v\'me — akantha,s\)\r\(i.' 

 1862. Entosphenus; enlos, within — sphenos, wedge. 



1877. Episema: epi, over ; sfi?na, banner (dorsal fin). 



1865. Ericymba: eri, an intensive particle — kumha, cavity (mu- 



cous tubes). 



1876. Erimyzon: eri, intensive particle — muzao, to suck. 



1876. Erinemus: eri, intensive particle — 7iema, thread (barbel). 



1876. Eritrema: eri, intensive particle — trema, aperture (pores 



of lateral line). 



1859. Estrella: vox euplion. 



1820. Etheostoma: " Various mouths" (Rafinesque). 




1811.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



18tG. Eucalia: eu, intensive particle — Jcalia, nest. 



1864. Eucentvarchus : eu, intensive particle — Centrarcbus. 



1820. Eurjstomus: eurus,vfk\e — stoma, mouth. 



1816. Eutj'chelithus : eu^uc/ies, lucky — lithos, stone. 



1818. Exoglossura : ea;o, outside — glossa, tongne. 



1803. Fundulus: Lat./u?ifZits, bottom. 



1853. Gila : Gila River. 



1860. Girardinicbtbys : Girardinus (Dr. Cbarles Girard) — ich- 



thus, fisb. 



1818. Glossodon : glossa, tongue — o(?ci/?, tootb. 



1840. Glossodon : glossa, tongue — odOn, tootb. 



1876. Glossoplites : glossa, tongue — hoplites, armed. 



1864. Gronias: grone, a cavevn. 



1829. Grj'stes: grrtizo, to growl. 



1854. Hadropterus : T^arfros, strong — ^^j^e/'o?!, fin. 



1869. Hemioplites: he mi, half — hojilit es, armec]. 



18Y0. Hemitremia: hemi, lialf — trema, pore (lateral line). 



1854. Hericbtbj's : Heros, an allied genus — ichthiis, fisb. 



1854. Hetei'andria : hetero.<, different — andria, males. 

 1818. Hiodon : " tootbed tongue" (os /^yoiVZes). 



1863. Hololepis: holos, wbole — lepis, scale (entirel}^ scaly). 

 1856. Hudsonius : Hudson River. 



1828. Huro : Lake Huron. 



1855. Hybognathus: /iw6os, gibbous — gnathos,]avf. 



1854. Hybopsis: Au&os, gibbous — opsis, face. 



1855. Hyborbyncbus : hubos, gibbous — rhugchos, snout. 

 1803. Hydrargira: hudor, water, arguros, silver. 

 1855. Hylomj'zon: hide, mud — niuzao, to suck. 



1854. Hyostoma: hus,hog — .s^o»ia, moutb. 



1818. Hypentelium: hiqw, below — pente, five (lower lip five- 

 lobed). 



1864. H3'peristius : huper, above (bigb) — histion, sail (dorsal 



fin). 



1870. Hypobomus: /?i/;)o, below — /?o??io^-, even, uniform. 

 1862. Hypsifario : hupsi, bigb — fario, a brook trout. 

 1854. Hj-psolepis: hupsi, h\gh — lepis, scale. 



1820. Ictalurus: ichthus, f^sh — ailoxiros. cat. 



1820. Ictbelis: ichthus, fish — helios, sun 



1820. Ictiobus: zc/? //)?/•-•, fisb — 6ou8, buffalo. 



1820. Ilictis : i7?<^, mud — ichthus,fish 




102 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



1877. Imostoma: emz, to move, to go — s/oma, mouth. 



1870. Labidesthes : labia, a pair of forceps — esthio, to eat. 



1854. Lavinia: vox euphon. 



1820. Lepibema: lej^is, scale — bema, a stair (from scaly bases of 



fins). 



1874. Lepiclomeda: lepis, scale — Meda. 



1803. Lepisosteus: lepis, scale — osteon, hone. 



1819. Lepomis: lejjis, scale — ^2^<^"'^<^? op^i'cle. 



1823. Leptops: Zep^os, slender — ops, eye. 



1819. Leucops : Zei^^os, white— ops, eye. 

 1843. Leucosomus: leukos, \\]ute — soma, body. 

 1866. Limnurgus: Zz?n?ie, a pond, 



1818. Litholepis: Zi7/ios, stone — leins, scale. 



1859. Lucania: vox euphon. 



1866. Luciotrutta: La.t. lucius, inke — t7'utta, trout. 



1820. Luxilus : Lat. lux, shining, light (" shiner"). 

 1876. Lythrurus: Z?<^/?.ron, blood — o?(ra, tail. 



1818. Maxillingua: Jjat. maxilla, ^a^yv — lingua, tongue. 

 1856. Meda: vox euphon. 



1854. Melanura: 7ne/as, black — owra, tail. 



1864. Mesogonistius : mesos, middle — gOnia, angle — histion, sail. 

 1863. Microperca: 7ni^ros, small — ¥ exca. {perke). 



1801. Microptenis : 7?i2^ros, small — pteron,^n. 



1865. Micristius: mikros, svnaW — histion, sax\ (dorsal fin). 



1820. Minnilus: Eng. minnow; 'Fx.menuise; Lat. mmns, small. 

 1856. Minomus : vox euphon. 



1821. Mollienesia : Ded. to Monsieur Mollien (French Minister of 



Finance, a patron of Peron). 



1856. Moniana : monos, single (row of pharyngeal teeth). (?) 



1814. Morone. 



1820. Moxostoma: muzao, to suck — stoma, mouth. 



1855. Mylocheilus: ?jntZos, millstone, grinder — cheilos, lip. 

 1872. Myloleucus: mulos, grinder — leiikos, shiner. 



1855. Mylopharodon: mulos, grinder — pharugx, pharynx — odon, 



tooth. 



1820. Nemocampsis: nema, thread (lateral line) — kampsos, 

 curved. 



1856. Nocomis: " Daughter of the Moon," (Longfellow.) 



1819. Notemigonus: notos, back — hinni, half — gonos, angle. 

 1863. Nothouotus : nothos, spurious — notos, back. 




18TT.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 103 



1818. Notropis: notos, hack — tropit^, keel. 



1819. Xoturus : notos, back — oura, tail. 



1859. Oligocephalus : o^zgros, few (small) — ^e/j/iaZe, head. 



1820. Opladelus : hoplon, armature — adi'los, invisible, concealed. 

 1856. Orthodon: or^Aos, straight — odon, tooth. 



1816. Pantosteus: pa7?/os, entirely — osteon, hone. 



1820. Pegedictis : pege, spring — ichthiis, fish. 



1842. Percina: Ferca. 



1850. Percopsis: Ferca. (perke) — opsz's, appearance. 



1861. Phenacobius: phenax, deceptive — bios, life. 



1866. Photogenis: p/io^, light— (/en/iao, to bear (born of light). 



1820. Picorellus: pickerel (vernacular). 



1842. Pileoma : pileo, to comb (ctenoid ?). 



1820. Pimephales: pimeles, fat — kephale, head. 



1810. Placopharynx: plax, broad — pharugx, pharj^nx. 



1814. Plagopterus: plage, a M'ouud — p)te7^on, fin. 



1820. Plarg3a'us : pleura, side — arguros, silvery. 



1818. Platirostra : plains, broad — Lat. rostrum, snout. (\'ox 



h^^brida.) 



1861. Platj'gobio: pZa^us, broad — Gobio. 



1814. Plesioperca: pZmon, near — Ferca. 



1863. Pleurolepis : pleuron, side — lepns, scale. 



1854. Poecilichthys : poikilos, variegated — ichthus, fish. 



1850. PcMcilosoma : poikilos, variegated — soma, body 



1198. Polyodon: 2)olus, man}' — odon, tootli. 



1854. Pogonichthys : pogon, beard — ichthus, fish. 



1819. Pogostoma : pogon, beard — .s/o??m, mouth. 



1820. Pomacampsis: poma, opercle — kampsis, curved. 

 1820. Pomolobus: p)oma, opercle — lobos, lobe. 



1820. Pomotis : p)oma, opei'cle — ous, ear. 



1818. Pomoxis: po7na, opercle — o.ru^-, sharp. 

 1861. Potamocottus : potamos, river — Cottus. 

 1820. Proceros : pro, before — keras, horn. 

 1812. Protoporus : ^^^tJ^os, before — poros, yiore. 



1855. Ptychocheilus: ptuche, a fold — cheilos, lip. 

 1855. Pt3-chostomus : p)tuche, a fold — stoma, mouth. 



1860. Ptyonotus: ptuon,faxi — ??o/o.s, back. 



1861. Pj'gosteus: puge, vent, rump — osteon, bone. 



1819. Pylodictis: pelos, mud — ichthus, fish. 

 1850. Rhinichthys: r/ii??, snout — ichthus, Qsh. 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1817. 



1856. Richardsonius : Bed. to Sir John Richardson. 



1814. Roccus : vox barbar. (Rocli fish.) 



1850. Salmoperca: Salmo — Perca. 



1818. Sarchirus: sa^'j^, flesh — c/iezr, hand. 



1872. Sarcidium : sarkidion, a little lump of flesh. 



1876. Scaphirhjnichops : Scaphirhynchxis — ops^ appearance. 



1835. Scaphirhynehus : i<kaphe^ spade — rhugchus, snout. 



1863? Schilbeoides : Schilbe. 



1844. Sclerognathus : skleros, hard — gnathos, jaw. 



1859. Scolecosoma : skolex, a, v^orm — soma, bod3^ 



1820. Semotilus: sema, banner (dorsal fin) — telia, or some other 



word used by Rafinesque for " spotted." 



1856. Siboma: vox euphon. 



1804. Spatularia : Lat. spatula. 



1860. Stenodus: s^enos, narrow — odon, iooXh. 

 1820. Sterletus : Sterlet, a European sturgeon. 



1876. Sternotremia : dernon^ breast, thorax — h'ema, vent. 



1842. Stilbe: stilbe, to shine, to glitt«r. 



1865. Stilbius : 8^^7&e, to shine, to glitter. 



1820. Stizostedion : .<tizd, to prick — stethos, breast. 



1820. Sturio : Ija,t. sturgeon. 



1859. Synechloglanis : sunecho, to repeat, to re-echo — glanis, the 



fish " Silurus." 



1820. Telipomis : telia, "spotted'' (see Semotilus) — jwma, 



opercle. 



1820. Teretulus : Lat. teres, terete. 



1856. Tiaroga: vox barbar. 



1856. Tigoraa : vox barbar. 



1851. Triglopsis: Trigla — op.sts, appearance. 

 1859. Typhlichth3's : tuphlos, blind — ichthus, fish. 

 1842. Uranidea: ou7-anos, sky, heavens — eidO, to gaze. 



1876. Xenisma: xenisma, surprise. 



1877. Xenotis: a:g»os, wonderful — ous, ear. 



1854. Zygonectes: zugos^ a yoke (in pairs) — nektes, swimmer. 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 105 



LIST OF PLANTS RECENTLY COLLECTED ON SHIPS' BALLAST IN THE 

 NEIGHBORHOOD OF PHILADELPHIA. 



BY ISAAC BURK. 



Since 1867, when Aubrey H. Smith, Esq., published his "Xotes 

 on some Colonies of Plants," in the Proceedings of the Academ}', 

 there have been large additions made to the number, and, as some 

 of them are likely to become permanent colonists, and others ai'e 

 interesting, either from their raritj' or the place of their nativit3', 

 I propose to give a list of such as have been collected since that 

 time as far as I have been able to ascertain them. 



The extensive improvements made in the lower portion of the 

 cit}^ by the Pennsylvania Railroad and the American Steamship 

 Company', and the consequent increase in the number of vessels 

 required to carry away merchandise and produce, have been tlie 

 means of introducing a great variet}^ of plants, many of which 

 exist but a single season and then disappear, whilst others main- 

 tain a foothold for a longer period. 



Some which do not flower the first j^ear were given the protec- 

 tion of a cool greenhouse, and in this way I have become acquainted 

 with some very interesting plants. 



Much of the land on which these improvements have been made 

 was low marsh, which was covered with the mud dredged from 

 the docks, and when this had attained sufficient consistency 

 covered with any kind of ballast which could be obtained, much. 

 of it being chalk or oolite, showing that it came from British 

 ports, and producing plants common in such localities. 



To avoid repetition I have not given the native habitat of such 

 as are common on the British coasts, whether native or naturalized, 

 as it is reasonable to suppose we have received them from that 

 source, but in all cases where they are not noticed in the British 

 flora, I have endeavored to give the habitat of each species. 



1. Kanunculus philonotis, Ehr. Kaighn's Point. 



2. Papaver dubium, L. Kaighn's Point. 



3. Papaver hj'bridura, L. Kaighn's Point. 



4. Sisymbrium Sophia, L. Greenwich Point. 



5. Sisymbrium irio, L. Kaighn's Point. 



6. Erisymum cheiranthoides, L. Old Navy Yard. 



8 




106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1877. 



7. Brassica tenuifolia, Boiss. Kaigbu's and Greenwicli Points. 



8. Brassica monensis, Boiss. 



9. Brassica erucastrum, Bull. Huds. 



10. Lepidium latifolium, L. 



11. Rapistrum rugosum, All. 



12. Alyssum incanum, L. Berton, D. C. 



13. Reseda luteola, L. Kaiglin's Point. 



14. Reseda lutea, L. Greenwich Point. 



15. Reseda lutea var. maritima. Greenwich. Point. 



16. Reseda alba, L. Greenwich Point. 



17. Reseda odorata, L. Greenwich Point. 



18. Gynandropsis pentapbylla, D. C. Girard Point. Nat. of S. America. 



19. Cleorae pungens, Willd. Very abundant at Greenwich Point along 



with Polygonum Orientale on mud freshly dredged from the bottom 

 of the river. S. America. 



20. Sileue inflata, Smith. Greenwich Point. 



21. Silene uoctiflora, L. Greenwich Point. 



22. Lychnis vespertina, Sibth. Greenwich Point. 



23. Lychnis diurna, Sibth. Greenwich Point. 



24. Vaccaria vulgaris, Host. Greenwich Point. 



25. Corregiola littoralis, L. Kaighn's Point. Very rare. 



26. Frankenia pulverulenta, L. Kaighn's Point. A single specimen. 



27. Tribulus terrestris, L. Greenwich and Kaighn's Points. 



28. Malva parviflora, L. Greenwich and Kaighn's Points. 



29. Sphferalcea miuiata, Spach. Kaighn's Point. Nat. of South America. 



30. Geraneum dissectum, L. Greenwich Point. 



31. Geraneum molle, L. Kaighn's Point. 



32. Oxalis corniulata, L. Greenwich Point. Bentham seems to think 



this has been introduced into England from America, but it appears 

 to be much more common there than here, and Linnaeus gives Italy, 

 Sicily, and Germany as its native habitat. 



33. Medicago sativa, L. Kaighn's and Greenwich. Of a weak prostrate 



habit. Specimens at the Centennial Exhibition, grown in Kansas, 

 were much stouter and rigidly erect. 



34. Trigonella Monspeliaca, L. 



35. Trigonella ornithopodoides, L. A single specimen. 



36. Lotus corniculatus, L. Kaighn's Point. 



37. Trifolium hybridum, L. This appears likely to take permanent posses- 



sion of the sandy soil of New Jersey, and will probably make a 

 valuable forage plant. 



38. Lathyrus aphaca, L. Kaighn's Point. A single plant. 



39. Psoralea bitumiuosa, L. Kaighn's Point. Native of S. Europe. 



40. Potentilla reptans, L. Kaighn's Point. 




ISVT.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. lOY 



41. Potentilla rivalis, Nutt. Greenwich Point. This is described as a 



native of Colorado and the Western States, and it is singular how it 

 should have found its way here, but it is possible it may have a much 

 wider range than supposed, and might easily be mistaken for a slender 

 form of P. Norwegica, L. 



42. Ly thrum alatum, Ph. Greenwich Point. 



43. Ecbalium agrestis, Reich. Nat. of Southern Europe. 



44. Tetragonia, sp. Kaighn's Point. 



45. Mesembryanthemum nodosum, L. Kaighn's Point. 



46. Scandix pecten, L. Kaighn's Point. 



47. Richardsonia scabra, St. Hil. Nat. S. America — Brazil to Peru. 



48. Calycerabalsamitifolia, Rich. Kaighn's Point. Nat. of Chili. Interest-'^ 



ing as a representative of the rare natural order Calycerea. 



49. Mikania gonocladus, D. C. Kaighn's Point. Nat. of the West Indies 



and Mexico. 



50. Acanthospermum xanthoides, D. C. Kaighn's and Girard Points. 



51. Acanthospermum hispida, D. C. Both natives of Brazil. 



52. Bidens leucantha, Willd. Old Navy Yard. Native of the Southern 



States. 



53. Grindelia glutinosa, Dunal. Kaighn's Point. South America. 



54. Anthemis nobilis, L. Greenwich. 



55. Anthemis tinctoria, L. Greenwich. 



56. Chrysanthemum segetum, L. Greenwich. 



57. Matricaria chamomilla, L. Greenwich. 



58. Matricaria inodora, L. Greenwich. 



59. Artemisia vulgaris, L. Greenwich. 



60. Artemisia absynthium, L. Greenwich, 



61. Centaurea cyanus, L. Greenwich. 

 63. Centaurea nigra, L. Greenwich. 



63. Centaurea solstitialis, L. Greenwich. 



64. Carduus tenuifolius, L. Kaighn's and Greenwich. 



65. Tussilago Farfara, L. Kaighn's and Greenwich. 



66. Senecrio Jacoba^a, L. Kaighn's Point. 



67. Calendula arvensis, L. Kaighn's and Greenwich Points. 



68. Onopordon acanthium, L. Greenwich. 



69. Picris hieracioides, L. GreenMich. 



70. Helminthia echioides, Gaert. Kaighn's and Greenwich Points. 



71. Crepis tectorum, L. Greenwich Point. 



72. Crepis biennis, L. Greenwich Point. 



73. Hypocliffiris radicata, L. Greenwich Point. 



74. Apargia hirta, Hoff. Greenwich Point. 



75. Plantago coronopus, L. Old Navy Yard. 



76. Linaria spuria, Willd. Greenwich. 



77. Linaria Elatine, Desf. Kaighn's Point. 



78. Linaria minor, L. Kaighn's Point. 



79. Antirrhinum Orontium, L. Kaighn's Point. 




108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



80. Veronica liederfefolia, L. 



81. Veronica Buxbaumii, Tenore. Green-wich Point. 



82. Scrophularia aquatica, L. Kaighn's Point. 



83. Scoparia flava, Cham. Kaighn's Point. Nat. of South America. 



84. Mentha aquatica, L. Petty's Island. 



85. Ballota nigra, L. Kaighn's Point. 



86. Stachys annua, L. Kaighn's Point. 



87. Stachys sylvatica, L. Greenwich Point. 



88. Stachj'S arveusis, L. Greenwich Point. 



89. Tournefortia heliotropioides. Hook. Kaigkn's Point. Kat. ofBeunos 



Ayres. 



90. Solanum sisymbrifolium, Lam. Native of Brazil. 



91. Solanum rostratum, Dunal. Native of the Western States and Terri- 



tories. 

 93. Solanum eleaguifolium, Cav. S. America, Mexico, and Chili. 

 93. Datura Metel, L. Girard Point. Nat. of East Indies. 

 9-1. Nicotiana glauca, Graham. Kaighn's Point. Nat. of Brazil. 



95. Nicotiana longiflora, Cass. Kaighn's Point. Nativeof Chili, but natu- 



ralized to some extent in this neighborhood.' 



96. Hj'oscyamus niger, L. Kaighn's Point. 



97. Hyoscyamus alba, L. Kaighn's Point. Southern Europe. 



98. Chenopodium polyspermum, L. Kaighn's and Greenwich Points. 



99. Chenopodium vulvaria, L. Kaighn's and Greenwich Points. 



100. Atriplex rosea, L. Greenwich, very abundant on chalky ballast, and 



with A. patula and A. arenaria presenting a great variety of forms. 



101. Blitum maritimum, L. Greenwich Point. 



102. Alternanthera achyrantha, R. Br. E. I., S. America, and Brazil. 



103. Amarautus blitum, L. Greenwich Point. 



104. Amarantus deflexus, L. Greenwich Point. 



105. Polygonum herniarioides, Nutt. Camden. One specimen. 



106. Polygonum amphibium, L., var. terrestre, Willd. Greenwich Point. 



107. Rumex maritimus, L. Greenwich Point. 



108. Beta maritima, L., var. 



100. Euphorbia paralias,.L. Girard Point. 



110. Euphorbia peplis, L. Greenwich Point. 



111. Euphorbia peplus, L. Greenwich Point. 



112. Euphorbia segetalis, L. Greenwich Point. 



113. Mercurialis annua, L. Kaighn's and Greenwich Points. 



114. Carex muricata, L. Kaighn's Point. 



115. Agrostis spica veuti, L. Kaighn's and Greenwich Points. 



116. Agrostis ovina, L. Greenwich. 



117. Alopccurus pratensis, L. Greenwich. 



118. Phalaris paradoxus, L. Greenwich, E. Indies, and shores of the 



]\Iediterraneau. 



119. Loliuni Ilalicum, Braun. Kaighn's Point. 



120. Hordeum murinum, L. Kaighn's Point. 




ISYk] natural sciences of PHILADELPHIA. 109 



191. Panicum colonnnm, L. Nat. of India, but found in Florida by Dr. 

 Chapman. 



122. Panicum miliacea, L. Kaiglin's and Greenwich Points. 



123. Andropogon halapensis, L. Girard Point. Nat. of Syria. 



124. Pragmitis communis, L. Kaighn's Point. If this is not a distinct 



species, it is a very singular variety. The whole plant is but about 

 2 feet high, and of a pale glaucous hue. It has been growing there 

 for two or three years, but did not flower till this season. 



125. Holcus mollis, L. Kaighn's Point. 



I am under obligations to Messrs. Parker and Martindale who 

 collected many of the plants, and to Professor Porter who as- 

 sisted in naminsf them. 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [187' 



THE VALSEI OF THE UNITED STATES. 

 BY M. C. COOKE, M.A., A.L S. 



As a contribution towards the more complete and satisfactory 

 knowledge of the Fungi of the United States, I liave from time 

 to time essayed the revision of particular groups, in order to bring 

 together the determined, as well as the doubtful or uncertain spe- 

 cies, in order to assist the student, and serve as a basis for a more 

 perfect and critical enumeration. 



The present group has been selected as- having been subjected 

 to a more critical examination than man}' others, and as being a 

 large and important one in which it is probable many important 

 additions will yet be made. 



The classification adopted is a purely' artificial arrangement, 

 which it was thought would best serve the purpose which this 

 communication had in view. It will be observed that the names 

 of onlj' two genera are included, namely, Valsa and Melanconis^ 

 whereas many of the mycologists of the day admit several genera, 

 amongst which the}' distribute the species. A very few v/ords of 

 explanation will exhibit my views on this subject, with which 

 most European mj'cologists are familiar. 



The principles on which the new genera have been constructed 

 are held to be unsound and delusive, inasmuch as the fundamental 

 assumption that the character of the fructification should hold the 

 first rank, and all other characters be subsidiary to this, tends to 

 reduce a natural to a purely artificial sj'stera. They are also un- 

 worth}'^ because retrogressive. 



In the genus VaUa^ for example, it has been proposed that the 

 limits of the genus should be confined to such species as have 

 simple sporidia. For species with uuiseptate sporidia the genus 

 Valsaria was first proposed. This again became modified under 

 DiaportJie. This, however, did not satisfy the cravings of the 

 supposed reformers, for after passing through almost ever}' t^'pe 

 of sporidia and constituting new genera for them, they reverted 

 to the number of the sporidia contained in each ascus, and, where- 

 as, Valsa was to include all octosporons species with simple spores, 

 the species with a larger number of sporidia were to be relegated 

 to VaUe.lla. 



That this view is unsound it is onl}' necessaiy to refer to Valsa 




18tT.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



salicina, wliicli has sometimes a tetrasporous form, which was at 

 one time supposed to be a distinct species under the name of 

 Valsa tetraspora^ and it is sometimes octosporous as in tjq^ical 

 Valsa salicina. If Tulasne is right, then Sphoeria ditopa, with 

 its polj^sporous asci, is the same spe6ies as Sphoeria conformis with 

 octosporous asci, and both grow together on the same twig. If 

 the proposed basis of classification be sound, then it is applicable 

 here, and we have the same species, in two conditions, belonging 

 to two distinct genera, which is simply an absurdity. 



AVithout attempting here to enter into details wherefore we have 

 rejected each individual genus, it will be suflScient to announce our 

 faith in the sufficiency of the Friesian s^ystem based on external 

 characters supplemented by internal structure. Xo objection can 

 be urged against the artificial grouping of the members of any 

 one genus by means of the sporidia, as adopted here, for any spe- 

 cial purpose, provided alwa3's that no fictitious value be assigned 

 to the groups. 



The following is the order in which the species are arranged : — 



VALSA, Fries, S. V. S., p. 410. 

 Sect. I. Sporidia hyaliue. 



A. Sporidia allantoid, or sausage-shaped — minute. 



a. Asci polysporous. 

 B. Asci octosporous. 

 * Ostiola sulcate. 



a. Necks abbreviated. 

 5. Necks elongated. 

 ** Ostiola not sulcate. 



a. Necks abbreviated. 



b. Necks elongated. 



B. Sporidia allantoid, or sausage-shaped — large. 



C. Sporidia cjiindrical. 



D. Sporidia fusiform. 



E. Sporidia subelliptical. 



F. Sporidia uuiseptate. 



a. Without appendages. 



5. With appendages. 



G. Sporidia multiseptate. 

 Sect. II. Sporidia colored. 



A. Sporidia simple. 



B. Sporidia uniseptate. 



C. Sporidia multiseptate. 



a. Without appendages. 



6. With appendages. 



y. With transverse septa, or fenestrate. 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [ISTT- 



The known species being arranged in the above order, the un- 

 certain, or imperfectly known species, chiefly those of Schweinitz, 

 follow in the hope that their enumeration may eventuall}^ lead to 

 a knowledge of their fructification. Any such information de- 

 rived from authentic sources will be accepted with gratitude. 



Sect. I. Sporidia hyaline. 



A. Sporidia allantoid (minor). 

 a. Asci polysporous. 



1. Valsa melastoma, Fries S. V. S. 411; Schwz. Am. Bor. 1341; Nitschke Pyr. 



Germ., p. 237. 



Sporidia numerous, .005 X .001 mm. On apple. Penna. (Schw.). 

 We have seen no American specimens, and give the characters 

 of the fruit from Nitschke. 



Valsa angulata, Fr., is more closely allied to Dialrype. 



B. Asci octosporous. 

 * Ostiola silicate. 



a. xsecks abbreviated. 



2. Valsa stellulata, Fries, S. V. S. p. 411; Ntke. Pyr. p. 165; Schw. Bor. 1313; 



Cooke Handbk. No. 2461. 



Sporidia .008-.012 X .002 mm. On bark of various trees. 

 Common. Carolina (Rav. Curt.). Penna. (Michener). Texas 

 (Wright). Xew Jersey* (Berk.). Ohio (Lea). New England 

 (Sprague). — Bavenel Fungi, Gar. i. 51. 



3. Valsa tetraploa, B. & C; Cooke Handbk. 2478. 



Sporidia about .01 mm. long. On branches. Carolina (Curt. 

 Rav.). Xew Jersey (Ellis). 



Berkeley has latterly united this, or at least some forms of it, 

 with Valsa sLellulata. 



4. Valsa fraxinicola, C. & Pk. in N. Y. Museum Reports. 



Sporidia .008-.012; very slightl}' curved, amber-colored. On 

 Fraxinus Americana. Xew York (Peck, 232 j. Measurements 

 given from an authentic specimen. 



5. Valsa Berchemiae, Cooke in herb. {Valsa syngenesia, var. Berchemice Curt, in 



lett.) 



Sporidia .008-. 01 mm., pale-brownish. On Berchemia. Caro- 

 lina (Curt. Rav. 1205). Differing in habit from V. syngenesia^ 

 and also from the foregoing. 



6. Valsa monticulosa, B. & C. in herb. 



Sporidia .008-.01 mm. long. On Magnolia glauca. Carolina 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



(Curt.). Sporidia from authentic specimen sent out b^^ the late 

 Dr. Curtis. 



7. Valsa tumidula, C. & Pk. in N. Y. Museum Reports. 



Sporidia .01-.012 mm. long, pale-brownish. On Crafsegia^ and 

 Flatanus. New York (Peck, 2G6 ; Gerard, 35). New Jersey 

 (Ellis). There is a distinct black line on the wood surrounding 

 the perithecia. 



8. Valsa platani, Schw. Am. Bor. 1372. 



Sporidia .01-.012 X .003 mm., pale. On Platamis. Carolina 

 (Curt. Rav. 1821). New Jersey (Ellis). New York (Peck). 

 Habit somewhat that of V. quaternata ; measurement given from 

 specimen sent by Dr. Curtis. 



9. Valsa goniostoma, B. & C. in Curt. Cat., p. 142. 



Sporidia .008-.011 mm., pale-brown. On branches. Carolina 

 (Curtis). Sporidia from specimen commnnicated bj^ Dr. Curtis. 



10. Valsa rugiella, C. & E. in Grevillea, vol. v. pp. 92. 



Ostiola minute, faintly sulcate, sporidia about .006 mm. long. 

 Asci very small, lanceolate. On Acer tnibt^um. New Jersey- (Ellis 

 2426), with the habit of V. tetraploa^ but with smaller sporidia. 



11. Valsa juglandina, C. A E. in Grevillea, vol. v. pp. 92. 



Perithecia, 3-5 together, rather large and prominent, with a 

 snowj'^ white powder about the base. Ostiola deeply sulcate. 

 Sporidia .01-.012 X .003 mm. On Juglans regia. New Jersey 

 (Ellis, 2421). Certainly not F. juglandicola, Schw., and distinct 

 from V. stellulata, to which it is allied. 



12. Valsa leaiana, Berk, in Hook. Lond. Journ. 1845, p. 311. 



Sporidia .007 X .002 mm., pale-brown. On Hornbeam. Ohio 

 (Lea). S. Carolina (Rav. 1364). Sporidia from authentic speci- 

 men. 



13. Valsa vitis, Schw. Am. Bor. 1362 (not Nitschke). 



Sporidia .012-.014 mm. long. On twigs of Vitis. New York 

 (Peck). Penna. (Mich.). Carolina (Curt.). The Valsa vitis, Yckl. 

 & Ntke. is quite a different species, although it has been referred 

 to this for which the name of Valsa viligera will have to be sub- 

 stituted, as Schweinitz has priority. (Grevillea v. p. 125.) 



14. Valsa cerviculata, Fries, S. V. S. 411; Schw. Am. Bor. 1825; Ntke. Pyr. p. 



174; Not Sfer. Ital. tab. 33. 



Sporidia .006-.007 X .002 mm. On Hornbeam, etc. Bethlehem 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18T1. 



(Scliw.). Measurement of sporidia given from European speci- 

 mens, not having seen it from tlie United States. 



15. Valsa radula, Pers. Syn. p. 37; Schw. Am. Bor. 1309 ; Nitschke Pyr. Germ. p. 



164? 



Sporidia .01-.012 mm. long. On Populus. Carolina (Schw.). 

 Measurements from European specimens. 



16. Valsa prunastri, Fr. S. V. S. p. 411; Schw. Am. Bor. 1312; Ntke. Pyr. 170; 



Not Sfer. Ital. t. 35 ; Cooke Hdbk. 2460. 



Sporidia .006-.008 X .0015 mm. On Cerasus. South Carolina 

 (Rav. 12U; Curt. Schw.); Penna. (Schw.). 



b. Necks elongated. 



17. Valsa corynostoma, B. & C. in Grevillea, No. 871. 



Sporidia .006-.008 X .0015 mm. On Acer rvhrum. S. Gar. 

 (Rav. 1587 ; Curt.). Measurements from authentic specimen in 

 herb. Berkeley. 



** Ostiola not sulcata. 



b. Necks abbreviated. 



18. Valsa nivea, Fr. S. V. S. p. 224 : Schw. Am. Bor. 13.38; Ntke. Pyr. 224; Cooke 



Hdbk. 2463. 



Sporidia .01 2-.014 X -OOo mm. On /'o/jh/»s and apple. Penna. 

 (Mich.), Carolina (Curt,), N. Eng. (Frost). 



19. Valsa leucostoma, Fr. S. V. S. p. 411 ; Schw. Am. Bor. 1339 ; Ntke. Pyr. 222 ; 



Cooke Hdbk. 24G4. 



Sporidia .01-012 X .0025 mm. Oi\ Prunusanii Per sica. Caro- 

 lina (Curt. Rav.), Penna. (Midi.), Xew York (Berk.), X. Eng. 

 (Sprague). PavenePs Fungi Car. iii. GT. 



20. Valsa syngenesia, Fr. S. V. S. 411, Curt. Cat. 142; Schw. Am. Bor. 1321; 



Cooke Hdbk 2462. 



Sporidia .01 mm. long. On Pubus str'igosus. Carolina (Curt.). 

 We have seen no American specimen. The measurements are 

 from a Britisli, according to Rev. M. J. Berkeley's determination. 

 Mr. F. Currey's is a different species, with lanceolate, quadrinu- 

 cleate sporidia. 



21. Valsa microstoma, Fr. S. V. S. p. 411 ; Schw. Am. Bor. 1342; Ntke. Pyr. 193 ; 



Cooke Hdbk. 2460. 



Sporidia .01 X .002-.0025 mm. On bark. Carolina (Schw.), 

 Penn. (Schw.). 



22. Valsa americana, B. it C. in Grevillea 873 (probably V. aliii, Pk.). 

 Sporidia .01-.012 X .002 mm. On bark of various trees. Com- 




IStu] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ]15 



raon. Carolina (Cut. Rav.), X. Eng. (Sprague), Avitli the habit of 

 31. stilbostoma^ but with different fruit. 



23. Valsa colliculus, AVorms, in Fr. Sys. Jlyc. ii. 389. 



Asci and sporidia very minute, Sporidia .005-.006 mm. long. 

 On bark of Pinus. New York (Sartwell, Peck). Sporidia from 

 specimen communicated b}" the late Dr. Curtis. 



24. Valsa abietis, Fr. S. V. S. 412; Grevillea, v. p. 53; Ntke. Pyr. 186; Cooke 



Hdbk. 2473. 



Sporidia .008-.009 X .0015 mm. On bark of White Cedar- 

 New Jersey (Ellis, 2398). 

 25 Valsa pini, Fr. S. V. S. 412 ; Ntke. Pyr. 183. 



Sporidia .006-.009 X .0015 mm. On bark of Pi?H<,s. N.York 

 (Peck), New Eng. (Sprague). Sporidia from Fries Scler. Suec. 

 No. 7. 



26. Valsa leiphcemioides, B. & C. in Grevillea 868 (not Cryptospora leiphamioides 



of Fuckel). 



Sporidia .01 mm. long. On Oak. Carolina (Curt.), Ncav Eng. 

 (Sprague). The exposed ostiola, when the cuticle is stripped off, 

 are mixed with a white powder. We have seen no specimen. 



27. Valsa fulvella, B. & Rav. in arevillea No. 870. 



Sporidia .01-014 mm. long; pale amber. On Plataiias occi- 

 dentalis. S. Carolina (Rav. 1825). Sporidia from specimen fur- 

 nished b}'^ Ravenel. 



28. Valsa haustellata, Fr. Sys. Myc. ii. 383; Schw. Am. Bor. 1320 



Sporidia .OOG-.OOS X .002 mm. Rather strongl^^ curved, amber 

 colored. On Alnua serrulata^ and Oiitrya virginica. S. Carolina 

 (Curt. Rav.), N. York (Peck). Ravenel Fun. Car. iii. 53. 



29. Valsa liquidambaris, Scliw. Am. Bor. 1352; Grevillea, v. p. 34, pi. 75, fig. 16. 

 Sporidia .012 mm. long. On bark of Liquidamhar. Carolina 



(Curt.), N. Jersey (Ellis). This appears to be the species of 

 Schweinitz on the faith of specimens from Dr. Curtis. 



30. Valsa subclypeata, C. & Pk. in N. Y. Museum Reports. 



Sporidia .01-.012 X .003 mm., very slightly curved. On PJw- 

 dodendron and Quercus. New York (Peck, 341). The disk is 

 white, surrounded 1)}^ the blackened cuticle. 



31. Valsa gossypina, Cooke in herb. 



Sporidia minute, .005-.00G mm. long; colorless. On branches 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [ISTT. 



of Gossypium. S. Carolina (Rav. 1387). Habit similar to that of 

 V. quaternata. 



32. Valsa caryigena, B. k C. in Grevillea, 872. 



Sporidia .0I-.012 mm. long. On branches of Carya. Penna. 

 (Mich.), X. Jersey (Ellis?). Pustules small, in rows; covered 

 below with the smooth bark ; disk white, studded with the black 

 ostiola. Xot having seen authentic specimen, those of Ellis from 

 Xew Jersey are referred doubtfully. 



33. Valsa subscripta, Wallr. Fl. Crypt, ii. 813. 



Sporidia minute. On Rohinia. Carolina (Curt.). Hitherto 

 we have no knowledge of this species. 

 .34. Valsa anomia, Schw. Am. Bor. 1316. 



Sporidia .00T-.008 mm. long. On Rohinia. Carolina (Schw.), 

 According to Berkeley, the Schweinitzian specimens have sausage 

 shaped sporidia, .01 mm. long. In others there are uniseptate sty- 

 lospores. The above dimensions are from specimens in Herb. 

 Berkeley. 



35. Valsa decorticans, Fr. S. V. S. 412 ; Schw. Am. Bor. 1354 ; Ntke. Pyr. 194. 

 Sporidia .01-.012 X .0025 mm. On bark of Kerria Japonica 



and Syringa. Carolina (Curt.). We have seen no American spe- 

 cimens, but Xitschke gives the sporidia as .01-.012 X .0025 mm. 

 In specimen published by Mougeot and Xestler, they are rather 

 smaller. 



36. Valsa coronata, Fr. S. V. S. 412 ; Schw. Am. Bor. 1351 ; Ntke. Pyr. 196; Cooke 



Hdbk. 2471. 



Sporidia .006-.007 X .0015 ram. On Castanea and Bignonia. 

 Carolina (Curt.). The measurements are given from European 

 specimens. 



37. Valsa munda, B. & C. in Grevillea, No. 864, 



Asci lanceolate. Spoi'idia sausage-shaped. On smooth branches 

 of Gornus. Alabama (Peters). Pustules completcl}^ covered by 

 the bark, wliich is blackened over them, or appears black ; the 

 disk, bordered with white, being free. We have seen no specimen. 



38. Valsa orbicula, B. & C. in Grevillea, No. 867. 



Sporidia .01-.012 mm. long. On Willow, Carolina (Curt.). 

 Minute, orbicular, showing the subjacent perithecia by transpa- 

 rence, but not blackened ; surrounded by a black line. This spe- 

 cies also we liave not seen. 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117 



39. Valsa tessella, Fr. S. V. S. 411 ; Schw. Am. Bor. 1348; Curt. Cat. p. 142. 

 Sporidia .01-,012 mm. long. On willows. Carolina (Schw,), 



Penna. (Schw). Sporidia from specimens derived from Fries. 



40. Valsa monadelpha, Fr. Sys. Myc. ii. 382; Schw. Am. Bor. 1317. 

 Sporidia about .01 mm. long. On Frunus. New England 



(Torrey), Penna. (Schw.). Sporidia from specimens published by 

 Desmazieres, No. 961. 



41. Valsa trancata, C. & Pk. in N. Y. Museum Reports. 



Spermatia profuse .003-.005 mm. long. Sporidia .009-. Oil mm. 

 long. On Alnus. New York (Peck, 35). 



42. Valsa proestans, B & C. in Curt. Cat. 



Measurements from original specimen. Sporidia .01-.012 X 

 .003 mm. On branches of Nyssa. Carolina (Curt.), New Jersey 

 (Ellis, 2425). 



We have seen no authentic specimen and no description. The 

 dimensions of the sporidia are given from the New Jersey speci- 

 mens which we have referred to this species with hesitation. 



43. Valsa ceratophora, Tul. Fung. Carp. ii. 191 ; Schw. Am. Bor. 1266 ; Ntke. Pyr. 



ISO ; Cooke Hdbk. 2472 {Sphccria. ceratosperma, Tode). 



Sporidia .006-.008 X .0015 mm. On branches of oak, holly, 

 etc. Carolina (Schw. Rav. 1832), New England (Frost). 



44. Valsa rosarum, Not. Sfer. Ital. t. 42 ; Cooke Hbdk. No. 2472, var. 

 Sporidia .006 X .0015 mm. On Rose. Carolina (Rav. 1466). 

 The Diatrype hystrix of the United States is not the Valsa longi- 



rostres, Tulasne. 



46. Valsa pulchella, Fr. S. V. S. 412; Schw. Am. Bor. 1380; Cooke Hdbk. 2481. 



Calospkaria princeps, Ntke. Pyr. 91. 



Sporidia .006 X .0015 mm. On bark of cherry, peach, etc. 

 Carolina (Curt.), New York (Gerard, 72). Ravenel, Fun. Car. i. 

 66. 



47. Valsa ciliatala, Fr. Sys. Myc. ii. 405 ; Schw. Am. Bor. 1379 ; Calospharia Wah- 



leiibergii, Ntke. Pyr. 92 (?). 



Sporidia .009-.012 X .002 mm. On bark of Betula. Bethle- 

 hem (Schw.). Sporidia described from specimen published by 

 Fries. Scler. Suec. 147. 



B. Sporidia allantoic! (Major). 



48. Valsa quaternata, Fr. S. V. S. 412; Schw. Am. Bor. 1386; Cooke Hdbk 2482; 



Quateniaria Persoonii, Ntke. Pyr. 87. 



Sporidia .014-.02 X .004 mm. On Populus and Alnus serru- 




118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877- 



lata. Penna. (Mich.), Yei'mont (Russell), Caroliua (Curt.), Ohio 

 (Lea), New York (Gerard, 29, Peck). 



49. Valsa salicina, Fr. S. V. S. 412; Schw. Am. Bor. 1361; Ntke. Pyr. 212; 



Cooke Hdbk..2476. 



Sporidia .0U-.018 X -003 mm. On willow. Carolina (Curt.). 

 New England (Russell), Penna. (Schw.), New York (Peck, 231). 

 JRavenel Fun. Car. iv. 60. 



50. Valsa ambiens, Fr. S. V. S. 412 ; Schw. Am. Bor. 1364 ; Ntke. Pyr. 213 ; Cooke 



Hdbk. 2475. 



Sporidia .016-.022 X .005 mm. On apple, Pi-iaius, etc., Penna. 

 (Schw.), New York (Sartwell, Peck), Carolina (Schw. Curt.). 



61. Valsa coaperta, Cooke in Grevillea, v. 



Sporidia .016-.018 X .004 ram. On Uimus. New York (Rav. 

 1903). 



52. Valsa dissepta, Fr. S. V. 8. 412; Schw. Am. Bor. 1347; Cooke Hdbk. 2467; 



Qiiaternaria dissepta, Ntke. Pyr. 88. 



Sporidia pale brown,. 024-.03X .006-.008 mm. On Salix and 

 Amorplia fi^uticoaa. Carolina (Curl. Rav.). We have seen no 

 American specimens; all the specimens, including Rav. 1219, 

 belong to quite a diff'erent species. The fructification above 

 given is from British specimens. 



53. Valsa mesoleuca, B. & C. in Grevillea No. 879. 



Sporidia .02 mm. long. On Viburnum dentatum. Penna. (Mich.). 

 Disk white, surrounded by the black osteola, or sometimes dotted. 



54. Valsa dolosa, Fr. Sys. Myc. ii. 405 ; Schw. Am. Bor. 1368 ; Ntke. Pyr. 200 



Sporidia .014-.018 X .003-.005 mm. On branches of Celaslrus. 

 Carolina (Schw.). The dimensions above are given from Nitschke. 

 Notaris states that the sporidia are uniseptate. 



55. Valsa corniculata, Ehr. Crypt. No. 300; Curtis Cat. p. 142; Schw. Am. Bor. 



1325 ; Cooke Hdbk. 2438. 



Sporidia .02 mm. long. On bark of ash. Carolina (Curt. 

 Schw.). 



56. Valsa acclinis, Fr. S. V. S. 412 ; Schw. Am. Bor. 1389. 



Sporidia clustered together in a subglobose mass at the top of 

 the ascus ; .025-.02 mm. long. On branches of sassafras. Caro- 

 lina (Schw. Curt.). Nitschke (Pyr. 207) gives the measurement 

 of the sporidia as .007-.009 X .002 mm., which must be quite a 

 different species. 




1877.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 119 



C. Sporidia cylindrical. 



57. Valsa suffusa, Fr. S. V. S. 412; Schw. Am. Bor. 1357; Cooke Hdbk. 2485. 

 Sporidia .04-.05 X .004 mm. On Alnus and Salix. New 



Jersey (M. J. B.) ; Betlilehem (SchAv.); New York (Peck, 34). 

 American specimens accord witli British in the dimensions of the 

 sporidia. 



58. Valsa tricMspora, C & Pk. in N. Y. Museum Reports. 



Sporidia very slender, almost filiform, .05 mm. long, faintly 

 multiseptate. On oak twigs. New York (Peck, 7). 



59. Valsa albofusca, C. & Ellis in Grevillea, vol. v. p. 31, pi. 75, fig. 8. 



Sporidia linear, nncleate, .04 X .005 mm. On Quercus obfiisi- 

 loha. New Jersey (Ellis, 2325). Measurements from the original 

 specimen. 



60. Valsa cinctula, C & Pk. Grevillea, v. p. 31, pi. 75, fig. 15. 



Sporidia linear, curved, triseptate when mature; .05 mm. long. 

 On chestnut. New York (Peck, 272); New Jersey (Ellis, 2326). 

 The clusters of perithecia are girt by a white ring. The sporidia 

 in the original specimens from New York were simple, those from 

 New Jerse}' faintl}'^ triseptate; apparently' a question of maturity. 



D. Sporidia fusiform. 



61. Valsa aculeatus, Schw. Am. Bor. 13119. ( Valsa rufescens, Schw. Am. Bor. 1395). 

 Sporidia fusiform, narrow, quadrinucleate, then triseptate; 



.015-.017 mm. long. On Rhustyphina. Massachusetts (M. J. B.); 

 Cai'olina (Rav.). In our copy of Ravenel's Fungi, Car. fasc. iii. 

 No. 68, under the name of Vaha stilbostoma, is this species. Dr. 

 Curtis also seems to have fallen into this error. 



62. Valsa albovelata, B. & C in Grevillea No. 875. 



Sporidia fusiform, narrow, quadrinucleate; .02 X .004 mm. On 

 Bhus copallina. Carolina (Curt. Rav. 527). Disk white, pierced 

 by the cjdindrical ostiola. Valsa polysloma^ B. & C. in herb. On 

 Blnis copallina. According to specimen from Dr. Curtis, this 

 must be the same species. 



E. Sporidia subelliptical. 



63. Valsa innata, B. & C. in Grevillea No. 874. 



Sporidia oblong, uniseriate, narrowed towards each end ; .0075 

 mm. long. On Castanea vesca. New York (Berk.). We have 

 seen no specimen. 




120 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



F. Sporidia uniseptate. 



a. Not appendiculate. 



64. Valsa albocincta, C. & Pk. in N. Y. Museum Reports. 



Sporidia elliptic, uniseptate, slightly constricted, uniseriate ; 

 .018 X .006 mm. On Acer spicatum. New York (Peck). When 

 the bark is removed, the perithecia are encircled with white, a 

 black circumscribing line enters deepl}' into the wood. 



65. Valsa fibrosa, Fr. S. V. S. p. 412 ; Schw. Am. Bor. 1.324 ; Cooke Hdbk. 2489, 

 Sporidia elliptic, uniseptate ; .015 X .007 mm. On branches. 



New York (Berk.), Carolina (Curt.). We have seen no American 

 specimens. Rev. M. J. Berkeley states that the sporidia are uni- 

 septate, at length fenestrate ; .015 mm. long. European specimens 

 do not exliibit any tendency to become fenestrate, and if this 

 should prove a feature in the United States species, there is good 

 around for believing it distinct. Some authors unite Valsa 

 extensa with this species. 



66. Valsa extensa, Fr. S. V. S. 412; Scbw. Am. Bor. 1315 ; Cooke Hdbk. 2488. 

 Sporidia elliptic, uniseriate; .013-.015 mm. long. On branches. 



Bethlehem (Schw.). Very closely allied to Valsa fibrosa^ Fr. 



67. Valsa enteroleuca, Fr. S. V. S. p. 412 ; Schw. Am. Bor. 1314 ; Cooke Hdbk. 2501. 

 Sporidia shortly fusiform, uniseptate; .015-.017 mm. long. On 



Rohinia. Carolina (Curt.). 



68. Valsa leiphemia, Fr. S. V. S. 412 ; Schw. Am. Bor. 1356 ; Cooke Hdbk. 2490. 

 Sporidia shortly fusiform, uniseptate; .015.-017 X .006 mm. 



On oak. South Carolina (Rav.); Penna. (Mich.) Sporidia de- 

 scribed from British specimens. 



69. Valsa impulsa, C. & Pk. in N. T. Museum Reports. 



Sporidia narrowly elliptic, uniseptate, nucleate ; .02-.022 x .008 

 mm. On Pyrus Americana. New York (Peck, 273). 



70. Valsa glyptica, B. & Curr. Grevillea No. 866. 



Sporidia fusiform, sometimes sigmoid, uniseptate ; .05 mm. 

 long. On willow. Carolina (M. J. B.). We have not seen this 

 species, but it reminds one so strongly of Valsa tessera, Fr., that 

 we doubt whether the slight appendages may not have been 

 overlooked. 



71. Valsa carpini, Pers. Fr. S. V. S. 412; Schw. Am Bor. 1326. 



Sporidia lanceolate, uniseptate, nucleate; .014 X .004 mm. On 

 Carpinus betulus. Carolina (Schw.) ; Penna. (Schw.). 




1871.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



72. Valsa furfuracea, Fr. S. V. S. 412; Schw. Am. Bor. 1387; Cooke Hdbk. 249.3. 

 Sporidia uniseriate, narrowl}' elliptical, uniseptate, .025-03 X.Ol 1 



mm. On Tilia. Bethlehem (Schw.). Sporidia from British 

 specimens referred to this species. 



73. Valsa conjuncta, Nees Sys. p. 305; Fr. S. V. S. 412 ; Schw. Am. Bor. J383 

 Sporidia lanceolate, uniseptate, .016 X .004 mm. On Primus. 



Bethlehem (Schw.). Sporidia described from European specimens. 



B. Sporidia appendiculate. 



74. Valsa tessera, Fr. Sys. Myc. ii. 405; Schw. Am. Bor. 1307 {Valsa mrcrro7iata. 



Peck). 



Sporidia fusiform, straight or curved, uniseptate, .05-.06 X .011- 

 .012 mm., with a short hj'aline apiculus at each extremit3^ On 

 bark of Cor?/?us and Salix. Bethlehem (Schw.). New York (Peck). 



75. Valsa thelebola, Fr. S. V. S. 412 ; Schw. Am. Bor. 1384; Cooke Hdbk. 2503. 

 Sporidia elongated, rounded at the ends, often curved, unisep- 

 tate, aristate at each extremit}', .04-. 045 X .01 mm., without the 

 appendages. On Juniperus Virginiana and Alnus. Bethlehem 

 (Schw.). N. York (Peck, 52). The Xew York specimens accord 

 with the European. 



76. Valsa taleola, Fr. S. V. S. 411; Schw. Am. Bor. 1345: Cooke Hdbk. 2502 



( Valsa oxyspora. Peck). 



Sporidia elliptical, uniseptate, .02-.03 mm. long, aristate at 

 either end, and sometimes at the commissure at each side. On 

 oak limbs. Carolina (Curt.). Xew York (Peck). 



G. Sporidia multiseptate. 



77. Valsa gemmata, B. & C. in Grevillea No. 876. 



Sporidia fusiform, triseptate. On Rhus radicans. Carolina 

 (Curt.). Ostiola stellate, necks united. Our specimen under this 

 name (Rav. 1222) has ver}' different fruit, and is similar to Vaha 

 tetraploa. 



78. Valsa pennsylvanica, B. k C. in Grevillea 865. 



Sporidia narrow, oblong, sometimes wide at one end, sometimes 

 slightly curved, triseptate, .025 mm. long. On Cerasus Pemisyl- 

 vanica. New York (Berk.). Bursting transversely, perithecia 

 in the centre of a facette. We have seen no specimen. 



79. Valsa capsularis, Pers. Syn. p. 42; Curt. Cat. p. 142; Schw. Am. Bor. 1363. 

 Sporidia fusiform, triseptate, hyaline. On bark of Ampelopsis. 



9 




212 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [187T. 



Carolina (Curt.). The characters of the fruit are given on the 

 authority of Notaris. 



Sect. II. Sporidia colored. 



A. Sporidia simple. 



80. Valsa turgida, Fr. S. V. S. p. 41.3; Curt. Cat. p. 142; Schw. Am. Bor. 1359. 



Cooke Hilbk. 2504. 



Sporidia elliptic, brown, .OOVG-.Ol mm. long. On Liriodendron. 

 Carolina (Curt.). Penna. (Schw.). Descrlbecl from European 

 specimens. 



B. Sporidia uniseptate. 



81. Valsa toxici, Schw. Am. Bor. 13.30. 



Sporidia elliptical, uniseptate, brown, .012 X .005 ram. On 

 Rhua radiaans. S. Carolina (Rav. 1424). 



82. Valsa celtidis, Cooke in Grevillea, v. p. 55, pi. 81, fig. 3. 



Sporidia uniseriate, elliptic, uniseptate, brown, .02 x .008 mm. 

 On branches of Celtis. S. Carolina (Rav. 1833). Quite distinct 

 from Sphceria celtidis B. & C, according to the description. 



83. Valsa notarisii, D. R. & M. Fl. Alg. t. 25, fig. 6. 



Sporidia uniseriate, uniseptate, brown, constricted at the 

 septum, .02 x .008 mm. On Rohinia and Gleditschia. Carolina 

 (Curt.). 

 SZhis. Valsa clethraecola, C. & E. Grevillea v. p. 92. 



Sporidia biglobose, brown, uniseptate, .018 X .009 mm. On 

 Clethra alnifolia. Xew Jersey (Ellis). 



84. Valsa peckii, Howe MSS. in N Y. Museum Reports. 



Sporidia uniserrate, uniseptate, brown, .014 X -006 mm. On 

 Kalmia. New York (Howe). N. Jersey (Ellis). 



85. Valsa fulvopruinata, Berk, in Lea's Cincinnati; Curr. Linn. Trans. 

 Sporidia elliptic, uniseptate, brown. On Platanus. Ohio 



(Lea), Carolina (Curtis), Conn. (Wright). 



86. Valsa melastroma, Fr. S. V. S. p. 412 ; Schw. Am. Bor. 1358. 



Sporidia elliptic, uniseptate, brown, .032 X .014 mm. On bark 

 of Ulnius. Salem(Schw.). We have seen no authentic American 

 specimen. Character of sporidia given from specimen published 

 by Fries Scler. Suec. 223. 




18TT.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123 



C. Sporidia mnltiseptate. 



87. Valsa tubulosa, B. & C. in Grevillea. 



Sporidia fusiform, obtuse at the ends, triseptate, brown, .03 X .01 

 mm. On Alnus. Carolina (Curtis). Sporidia from original spe- 

 cimen from Dr. Curtis. 



88. Valsa profusa, Fr. S. V. S. p. 411 {Valsa Sarttvelli, B. & C. in herb. Aglao- 



spora jnofusa, Tul. Carp.) ; SphcEria profusa, Schw. Am. Bor. 1346 ; Cooke 

 Hdbk. 2511. 



Sporidia large, oblong, elliptic, quadrilocular, at length brown, 

 .06-.07 X .018-.02 mm. On bark of Robirna. Carolina (Curt.), 

 New England (Sprague), New York (Gerard, 9 Peck.). Authen- 

 tic specimens of V. Sartwelli are undoubtedly this species. 



89. Valsa convergens, Tode Fr. Sys. Myc. ; Sch. Am. Bor. 1390 ; Cooke Hdbk. 2505. 

 Sporidia sub-cymboeform, irregular, triseptate, brown. On Rosa 



corymhosa. Carolina (Schw.), Penna. (Schw.). 



B. Sporidia appendiculate. 



90. Valsa hapalocystis, B. & Br. ; Cooke Hdbk. No. 2515. 



Sporidia oblong-elliptic, appendiculate at either end, biseptate, 

 brown, .035 X .015 mm. On Platanus occidentalis. New York 

 (Peck). Inserted on the authority of Mr. Peck. 



y. Sporidia transversely septate. 



91. Valsa condensata, B. & C. Grevillea, No. 878. 



Sporidia obovate, 5 septate, here and there vertically divided, 

 brown, .02 mm. long. On Quercus montana. Virginia (Curt.). 



92. Valsa castanicola, B. & C. in Grevillea, No. 869. 



Sporidia cymboeform, pointed, triseptate, at length vertically 

 divided, .01 mm. long. On small twigs of Castanea. Virginia 

 (Curt.). AVe have not seen this species. Probabl^^ it is the same 

 with Vaha castanophila of Curtis's catalogue. 



93. Valsa vestita, Fr. S. V. S. p. 412 ; Scbw. Am. Bor. 1388 ; Cooke Hdbk. 2514. 

 Sporidia elliptic, brown, transversely and longitudinallj^ septate, 



.02 mm. long. On Ribes fiorida. Bethlehem (Schw.). Described 

 from European specimens. 



Sporidia uncertain. 



94. Valsa plagia, B. & C. Curt. Cat. p. 141. 



Fallen limbs of Liriodendron. Carolina (Curt.). This species 

 does not appear to be known to the Rev. M. J. Berkeley. 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



95. Valsa Bignoniae, Schw. Am. Bor. 1310; Curt. Cnt. p. 141. 



On bark of Tecoma. Carolina (Cart. Schw.). 

 9(). Valsa scoparia, Schw. Am. Bor. 1318; Curt. Cat. p. 141. 



On bark of Juglans. Carolina (Curt.). 



97. Valsa pugillus, Schw. Am. Bor. 1322; Curt. Cat. p. 142. 



On wood of maple. Carolina (Curt.). Penna. (Schw.). 



98. Valsa sCutellata, Perg. Syn. Fung. 37; Curt. Cat. p. 142 ; Schw. Am. Bor. 1344. 

 On Prunus and Cornus. Carolina (Schw.). Penna. (Schw. 



99. Valsa frustrum-coni, Schw. Am. Bor. 1329 ; Curt. Cat. p. 142. 

 On roots of oak. Carolina (Curt.). 



100. Valsa ciliata, Fr. S. V. S. p. 141 ; Curt. Cat. p. 142 ; Schw. Bor. 1349. ( Vide 



Tul. Carp. ii. pp. 201.) 



On bark of Ulmus. Penna. (Schw.). Carolina (Curt.). 



101. Valsa pusio, B. & C. in herb. ; Curt. Cat. p. 142. 



On braches of Morus multicaulis. Carolina (Curt.). This spe- 

 cies does not appear to be known to the Rev. M. J. Berkeley'. 



102. Valsa umbilicata, Pers. in Fr. S. V. S. p. 412; Curt. Cat. p. 142; Schw. Am. 



Bor. 1385. 



On branches of Lonicera sevipe7'virens. Carolina (Curt). 

 Bethlehem (Schw.). 



103. Valsa divergens, Schw. Am. Bor. 1393 ; Curt. Cat. p. 143. 

 On Liquidamhar. Carolina (Schw. Curt.). 



104. Valsa juglandicola, Schw. Am. Bor. 1328. 



On Juglans tomentosa and alba. Carolina (Schw.). Penna. 

 (Schw.). 



105. Valsa rubincola, Schw. Am. Bor. 1329. 

 On Bubus. Bethlehem (Schw.). 



106. Valsa allostoma, Schw. Am. Bor. 1332. 



On Robinia. New England (Torre}'), 



107. Valsa oligostoma, Schw. Am. Bor. 1333. 



Inside bark of Ca^^lanea. Bethlehem (Schw.). 



108. Valsa amorphostoma, Schw. Am. Bor. 1334. 

 On Gleditschia. Bethlehem (Schw.). 



109. Valsa radicium, Schw. Am. Bor. 1335. 



On roots of trees. Bethlehem (Schw.). 




1817.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



110. Valsa conspurcata, Schw. Am. Bor. 1336. 

 On oak branches. Bethlehem (Schw.). 



111. Valsa modesta, Schw. Am. Bor. 1337. 



On 3'oung branches of Ulmus. Bethlehem (Schw.). 



112. Valsa comptoniae, Schw. Am. Bor. 1353. 

 On Compton/a. Bethlehem (Schw.). 



113. Valsa variolaria, Schw. Am. Bor. 1371. 

 On Tilia. Bethlehem (Schw.). 



114. Valsa conseptata, Schw. Am. Bor. 1373. 



Ou bark of Gleditschia. Bethlehem (Schw.). 



115. Valsa papyriferse, Schw. Am. Bor. 1375. 



On Broussonetia papyrifera. Bethlehem (Schw.). 



116. Valsa ceanothi, Schw. Am. Bor. 1376. 



On dead stems of Geanothus. Bethlehem (Schw.). 



117. Valsa indistincta, Schw. Am. Bor. 1377. 



On young branches of sassafras. Carolina (Schw.). 



118. Valsa quadrifida, Schw. Am. Bor. 1378. 



On Vaccinium corymbosum. Bethlehem (Schw.). 



119. Valsa scabriseta, Schw. Am. Bor. 1394. 



On other Sphoeria on bark of Castanea. Bethlehem (Schw.). 



120. Valsa expers, Schw. Am. Bor. 1396. 



On Rosa corymbosa. Bethlehem (Schw.). 



121. Valsa rimicola, Schw. Am. Bor. 1397. 



On Comptonia asplenifolia. Bethlehem (Schw.). 



122. Valsa rhizina, Schw. Am. Bor. 1398. 



On roots of Rhododendron. Bethlehem (Schw.). 



123. Valsa halseyana, Schw. Am. Bor. 1319. 



On bark of Betula. New York (Schw.). 



124. Valsa lixivia, Fr. S. V. S. p. 411 ; Schw. Am. Bor. 1327. 

 On JugJans cinerea. Bethlehem (Schw.). 



125. Valsa tortuosa, Fr. Act. Holm. 1817, p. 98 ; Schw. Am. Bor. 1350. 



On pine branches, infested with Peridermium. New Jersey 

 (Schw.). 



126. Valsa deformis, Fr. Sys. Myc. ii. 398; Schw. Am. Bor. 1355. 

 On Quercus. Bethlehem (Schw.). 




126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



127. Valsa clopima, Fr. S. V. S. p. 142; Schw. Am. Bor. 1360. 

 On twigs. Bethlehem (Schw.). 



128. Valsa leucopis, Fr. S. V. S. p. 412 ; Schw. Am. Bor. 1365. 

 On Syringa. Bethlehem (Schw.). 



129. Valsa spMnctrina, Fr. S. V. S. p. 412; Schw. Am. Bor. 



On Catalpa and Jaglans nigra. Bethlehem (Schw.). 



130. Valsa aperta, Fries (? ) ; Schw. Am. Bor. 1381. 



On Populiis italica. Bethlehem (Schw.). 



131. Valsa vasculosa, Fr. S. V. S. p. 412; Schw. Am. Bor. 1382. 

 On Frunus. Bethlehem (Schw.). 



132. Valsa pusilla, Fr. S. V. S. p. 412; Schw. Am. Bor. 1391. 

 On bark of Castanea. Bethlehem (Schw.). 



133. Valsa abnormis, Fr. S. V. S. p. 412; Schw. Am. Bor. 1392. 



On Sambiicus. Fries writes of this " V. abnormit;, clubia sp." 

 We have seen no specimen. 



MELANCONIS, Tul. Carp. ii. 115. 

 A. Sporidia colored. 



1. Melanconis stilbostoma, Tul. Carp. ii. 120 ; Schw. Am. Bor. 1366 ; Cooke Hdbk. 



2454. 



Conidia subglobose, olive, .014-.016 X .008-.01 mm. Stylos- 

 pores elliptic, uniseptate, brown. Sporidia biseriate, colorless, 

 uniseptate. .018 X .008 mm. On bark of Betula, Acer, Melia. 

 Carolina (Schw. Rav.), Penn. (Schw.), New York (Peck 15). In 

 the New York specimens stylospores, like the spores of Dijylodia, 

 occur in perithecia, Avhich are collected in circles, and so much 

 like those containing ascospores, that the one cannot be distin- 

 guished from the other by any external feature. Hitherto we 

 have not seen such st3dospores associated with European speci- 

 mens, nevertheless there is no reason for supposing that the 

 American species is distinct. The size and character of the as- 

 cospores are precisely identical. This is an interesting contribution 

 to the life history of the species for which we are indebted to Mr. 

 C. Peck, on Betula painjrifera. 



2. Melanconis chrysostoma, (Fr.), Tul. Fung. Carp. ii. p. 125; Cooke Hdbk. 2456 



(not Fuckel). 



Conidia ovate, apiculate at the base ; olive brown ; 1-2 nucleate, 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 127 



015 X .01 mm. Sporidia elliptic, uniseptate, lij-aline, .0177-022 

 mm. long. Ou bark of Carpinus^ Quercus alba. Carolina (Peck). 



B. Sporidia colored. 



a. Not appeudiculate. 



•3. Melanconis lanciformis, Tul. Carp. ii. t. 16; Schw. Am. Bor. 1263; Cooke 

 Hdbk. 2458. 



Conidia clavate, 3- 4- G-celled. Sporidia long, elliptical, brown, 

 quiuqueseptate, .036 X .012 mm. Ou Betula. Bethleliem (Scliw.). 



Melanconis elliptica, Peck, on Eetida 2>opulifoUa ; does not appear to be specifically 

 distinct from M. lanciformis. 



b. Sporidia appendiculate. 



4. Melanconis bicornis, C. &, Pk. in N. Y. Museum Reports. 



Sporidia .OG X .015 mm. with appendages, together .15 mm. long. 

 On Platanus. New York (Peck, Gerard). 



5. Melanconis amygdalina, Cooke in Grevillea, v. p. 55, pi. 81, fig. 4. 

 Sporidia almond-shaped, simple brown, .025 X .01 mm. with 



thin b3'aline appendages at each end, .02-.03 mm. long. Ou Li- 

 quida'mbar. Carolina (Rav.). 




128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1877. 



March 6. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirt^'-eight members present. 



Influence of Xufrition on Fertilization.— ^Ir. Thomas Meehan 

 said that considerable interest had been manifested in England 

 in tlie unusual failure of the Holly to produce berries, and Mr. 

 Darwin had written a letter to sa}' that bees were everywhere rare 

 in the localities examined by him last spring, and suggesting that 

 this scarcity had resulted in non-pollenization through lack of in- 

 sect aid. Mr. Meehan was surprised at the suggestion, as tiie Holly 

 was classed with the 'anemophilous (wniid loving) plants, which 

 were not considered, even by Mr. Darwin's friends, as requiring this 

 assistance. With all respect, however, for the immense services 

 which Mr. Darwin and his close followers had rendered to science, 

 he felt quite sure that they frequently mistook the work of ordi- 

 nary laws of nutrition for the etfects of pollenization; and of this 

 he would now offer an illustration in the case of the common 

 mignonette. In the open air with us this plant seeded freely; in 

 clo^e greenhouses in winter forcing A'ery rarely. Until this year 

 he had never had plants to produce seeds in winter. Others had 

 found a similar experience, aud it was common to hear the remark 

 " behold the results of insect agency ! In the open air insects 

 visit them, and you get seeds — in the winter greenhouse there are 

 no insects and lio seed." But as if to protest against this conclu- 

 sion, his plants, of which he distributed specimens, had taken to 

 producing seed in abundance; that is to say, every flower had 

 seed. There were from two to six perfect ones in each capsule, 

 not so much as in the open air; but still all had some seed. As 

 regards insects, the conditions this winter were precisely the same 

 as heretofore. They had nothing to do with it. There may have 

 been more light or less light, more heat or less heat, or the earth 

 in which they are growing may not have been exactly the same ; 

 or there may have been some other circumstances which gave 

 nutrition a better chance to work on the reproductive organs than 

 heretofore; at any rate insect aid is out of the question in cases 

 like these. He liad shown before that so far as the clover was 

 concerned in this country, it would produce seed freely without 

 insect aid ; and in explanation of this it had been urged that the 

 doctrine in relation to this question did not preclude the plants 

 in many cases fertilizing themselves when insect aid could not be 

 obtained, and quotations from Mr. Darwin's works had been made 

 before the Academy and elsewhere in support of this view. But 

 in this very letter ou tlie Holly, Mr. Darwin must have forgotten 

 if he ever held to this accommodating view, as he reiterates the 




187 Y.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 129 



statement that clover seed is a failure when the flowers are not 

 visited by bees. 



The Bluebird and Holly berries. — Mr. Thomas Meehan ob- 

 served that the Blue bird had this season stripped his H0II3' trees 

 of their berries, though it had been supposed bj' all, he believed, 

 that no birds ate them. Some of the trees were but a few 

 feet from his librarj' window, which gave him a good opportunity 

 to note that it was this and not the Snow-bird. These birds 

 remained with him all through the severe weather of December, 

 not leaving till the January snows came. They fed also on the 

 berries of the common red cedar. He believed in the case of this 

 bird the migration south in the winter season was not with them 

 a question of temperature, but one of food. At least they remained 

 •with him in his cedar woods till the berries were all gone. 



Vitality of Seeds under Low Temperature. — Mr. Thomas 

 Meehan referred to the seeds of wheat, oats and Indian corn, 

 which, after having been left by the Polaris in 18T2, had been 

 found in 1876 b}' the Xares exploring expedition, and which, 

 though exposed to the severit}- of four arctic winters, had yet 

 grown. The growing plants had recenth' been exhibited before 

 an English scientific societ}', and surprise expressed, particularly 

 that seed of the maize, a tropical plant, should have received no 

 injury. Mr. Meehan said that though the facts ma}' not liave 

 been placed on record, it was not unknown in America that seeds 

 of tropical plants had a power of resisting low temperatures not 

 possessed by the plants themselves. The common forms of Ipo- 

 maea, known as " morning glories," the " Balsams" (Impatiens)^ the 

 common tomato, and others, came up in gardens from self-sown 

 seeds; and indeed there were large numbers of tropical weeds, 

 which the first frosts destroy, and 3'et the seedlings appear the 

 next year in great numbers. He called attention to this arctic 

 experience with seeds, however, chiefl}' to suggest what had often 

 occurred to him, from such observations, that seeds ma}' keep for 

 an indefinite time in low temperatures, when under high ones they 

 soon lose vitality. There is no reason that he knew of why seeds 

 might not get into an iceberg — keeping fresh perhaps for centuries 

 — and in this way some problems in the geographical distribution 

 of plants be solved. He suggested trials by those who had the 

 opportunity. The common silver maple (Acer dasycarpum) had 

 seed which usually completely lost vitality in a couple of months 

 from maturity. Experiments with these by those who had large 

 ice-houses, could not fail of resulting in useful knowledge. 



On Rocky Ilountain Locuf^ts. — Dr. Le Conte exhibited some 

 recently hatched Rocky Mountain locusts, commonly called grass- 

 hoppers, which had just been sent to him by Professor Henry, of 

 the Smithsonian Institution, and read the following commuuica- 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1817. 



tion, including extracts from the letter which aeconnpanied them, 

 giving the statement of Mr. J. X. High, hy whom the eggs were 

 collected near Fort Kearney, Nebraska : — 



"They are found in small cylindrical tubes about one-tenth of 

 an inch in diameter and four or five inches below the surface. 

 Freezing does not destroy the eggs, nor the young 'hopjier. It is 

 said they may be frozen solid in water, and when the ice is thawed 

 they will still exhibit life. They are said always to move in one 

 direction, eastward, and that the tendency of the young is instinc- 

 tively to hop in that direction. When the wind is unfavorable, or 

 from an easterly direction, they alight and remain on the ground 

 until the wind changes." 



While these remarks are perhaps founded upon too limited 

 observation, they at all events enable the members of the Academy 

 to make the personal acquaintance of this formidable pest, and to 

 bear a brief synopsis of the plans devised for its suppresion. 



It will of course be impossible within the few minutes available 

 at this meeting to condense the voluminous literature on the 

 Locust in this and other countries, but there are a few points to 

 which I may call 3'our attention with profit. 



The injury inflicted by these insects had extended over so large 

 a space and so long a time, that towards the end of October (25tli 

 and 26th), a conference of Governors of Missouri, Iowa, Kansas, 

 Nebraska, Minnesota, and Dakotah was held at Omaha. In this 

 meeting they were assisted by the counsel of several eminent men 

 of science, among whom were the State Entomologists of Missouri 

 and Illinois, Professors Rile}' and Tliomas. 



Various methods of destroying the locust were suggested, in 

 accordance with the experience gained in other countries, and 

 from the study of other insects. But the efficac}' of all these 

 methods was clearly shown to depend upon principles not dis- 

 similar to some of the propositions set forth by me in an address 

 delivered at Portland, in August, 1813, and another at Detroit, in 

 August, 1815, and these principles may be summed up as follows, 

 and are ajiplicable to all insect pests : — 



First. Correct observations in regard to the history and habits 

 of the noxious insect, including its range of distribution; the 

 time of its appearance in its different stages of development; in 

 various parts of its area of distribution, its habits in these difi'erent 

 stages; so that the proper time for most efficient attack may be 

 found. 



Second. Careful study of the most eff'ective means of destruction, 

 whether by means of mechanical (rolling, crushing, etc.), chemical 

 (poisons, etc.), punjl^y industrial (human labor), or vital (encour- 

 agement of birds an(l other enemies of tlie noxious insect). 



Third. The publication in a popular form of this calendar of 

 growtli and habits of each species, and the ettect of the various 

 modes of suppression which are found efficacious, and the distri- 




1871.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 131 



biition to farmers within the infested district of this compendium 

 of useful Ivuowledge. 



Fourth. The procuring by wise legislation enactments of com- 

 bined effort on the part of the agriculturists of the afflicted region, 

 under the directions contained in tlie publication suggested in 

 section 3, based upon tlie careful observations required by sections 

 1 and 2. Sucli information as is required for this purpose cannot 

 be obtained without the aid of the National Government, as I 

 have said on former occasions; and the whole spirit of the record 

 of the proceedings of the conference of Governors, which I 

 have mentioned above, is that the Government should take hold 

 of this subject with the earnestness which its importance demands. 

 Many similar appeals had been made before, but never by so dis- 

 tinguished a bod}', representing the wmU of five populous States 

 and one Territor}', all of which had been greatly devastated by 

 this single insect, and in which the channels of liuman immigra- 

 tion had been changed by its ravages. 



Yet this application failed as all former ones had done ; and to 

 this day there is not in the possession of any farmer or an}' student 

 of science the information necessar}^ for the suppression of even 

 a single insect pest, unless it has been laboriously acquired by 

 sifting many volumes of difficult access or of large cost. 



On Mineral Caoutchouc. — Mi*. Galloway C. Morris presented 

 specimens of mineral caoutchouc from South Australia, and stated 

 that the material had attracted his attention in tiie exhibit of the 

 South Australian Department of the Centennial Exhibition. From 

 the exhibitor, Mr. C. W. Stuart, he had obtained the specimens, 

 and from him learned that the substance is found during the dry 

 season in a small section of country of a swampy nature in the 

 Coorong District. It occurs in sheets from the thickness of a 

 sheet of paper to about five-eighths of an inch; and is being manu- 

 factured into a good article of illuminating oil. 



The geological formation of the basin in which it is found is 

 thus described: — The surface is sand, either white and barren or 

 brown and loam}', with occasional ridges or distributions of lime- 

 stone. Below that is segregated limestone, hard and approaching 

 crystallization, the interstices filled with light brown tenacious 

 clay, followed by compact light red sandstone of various thickness 

 gradually fiiding in color and consistence until it touches the 

 water and merges into quicksand. On the lowest flats, fissures 

 occur in the limestone; the orifices are very small and irregular 

 but reach to the underlying quicksand. 



In connection with this mineral caoutchouc is found another 

 material, a sample of which he also presented which goes under 

 the local name, from the district in which it is found, of Cooron- 

 gite. He was told that it is found over the same ground as the 

 caoutchouc, but at a rather lower level. He had found this mate- 




132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



rial to consist principal]}' of fresh-water Diatomacese cemented 

 togetlier with some h3'drocarbon. 



An analysis of the caoutchouc had been forwarded to him, which 

 was as follows : — 



Moisture 0.4683 



Carbon 64.7300 



Hydrogen 11.6300 



Ash 1.7900 



Fixed carbon 1. 00.50 



Oxygen and other unestimated matters . 20.3768 



100.0000 



March 13. 

 The President, Dr. Kuschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty-two members present. 



Papers entitled "Notes on Genera Acidaspis, Murchison, 

 Odontopleura, Emmrich, and Ceratocephala, Warder," b}-- A. W. 

 Togdes, and " Chemical Notes," by Geo. Hay, were presented 

 for publication. 



The death of Frank "W. Lankenau was announced. 



Evolutionary Laio as illu^trafed by Abnormal Growth, in an 

 Apple Tree. — Mr. Thomas Meehan exhibited some branches of a 

 " Smoke-house" apple tree, which had the cluster of flowers at 

 the end of a j'oung shoot, flowering after the leaves and growth 

 had matured, instead of blooming in spurs early in spring, and 

 simultaneously with the expansion of the leaves, as in ordinary 

 cases. There were numerous instances of the normal and abnormal 

 growths on the same tree, the abnormal ones flowering about six 

 weeks after the normal ones, but both classes maturing the fruit 

 at about the same time in the fall. He explained that physiologi- 

 cally there was but a slight difference between what was known 

 in the l)otanies as plants which bloom from last season's wood, 

 and plants which flower from the growth of the same year. In 

 the case of the former the spirals are closely appressed, as could be 

 seen by examining the old apple spurs exhibited. The scars where 

 the leaves or their equivalent bud scales had existed were so 

 close together that there were scarcely any internodes. In the 

 case of that class which flower from the growth of the same .year, 

 it was simply that the spirals closely appressed in the spurs were 

 now drawn out. In these apple branches there were from six to 

 nine internodes before the clusters of flowers were borne. 



The point he wished particularly to draw attention to was that 

 when there was a change in one important character, there was 

 often change in others making a complete set of characters which 




ISTT.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 133 



need nothing but permanence to be regarded as specific. For 

 instance, the fruit from these terminal clusters was as unlike 

 the normal " Smoke-house" as it was possible to be. The fruit 

 stems were very long and slender, and the fruit flattened — what 

 pomologists term oblate. It might further be noted that this 

 change was not a change b}' gradual modification through seminal 

 agency ; but a leap, and from a tree that had always produced 

 flowers in the normal waj'. There was apparently no more reason 

 why the law, whatever it may be, that operated on this one tree 

 might not under some circumstance operate on all the trees in 

 the orchard, or on other wild trees in native places of growth, 

 or on the individuals of a whole district, as well as on a single 

 tree. If trees with such a set of differences were found in a 

 wild condition and their parentage not known, a botanist would 

 undoubtedly regard them as constituting very distinct species, 

 and describe and name them accordingl3'. It was such illustra- 

 tions as these which made the doctrine of evolution in some form 

 an absolute certaintj'. 



March 20. 

 Mr. Yaux, Yice-Pi-esident, in the chair. 

 Thirty-four members present. 



March 27. 

 Mr. Yaux, Yice-President, in the chair. 

 Twenty members present. 



A paper entitled " On Elaterite and Coorongite from Xew 

 South Wales, Australia," by E. Goldsmith, was presented for 

 publication. 



Charles Ashburner and Thomas Mackellar were elected mem- 

 bers. 



P. A. Yon Kotschubey, of St. Petersburg, was elected a corre- 

 spondent. 



The following papers were ordered to be printed : — 




134 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1817. 



ON THE VITAL POWERS OF ANTS. 

 BY REV. H. C. MCCOOK. 



It is well known, that insects generally are liigbly endowed 

 with vital powers for the maintenance of existence and the per- 

 petuation of their species. The following facts may illustrate the 

 ability of the Formicidse to maintain life under most unfavorable 

 conditions : — 



1. The Survival of Ants under JEx2)osure to severe Cold. — A 

 portion of a formicary of Formica P ennsylvanica^ the Pennsyl- 

 vania carpenter ant, vvas cut during the month of January last, 

 from an oak bough on Brush Mountain, Blair Co., Pa. It was 

 preserved by the Avood-choppers and sent to me by Mr. Jas. "W. 

 Riddle, of Bell's Mills. The ants, as usual during winter, were 

 torpid. A few of them were put in a bottle ; the others remaining 

 in the nest were. placed out of doors, where the}' remained for two 

 weeks exposed to the rigor of a mountain winter. When the 

 formicary reached Philadelphia, it was placed in the cellar of the 

 Academy for several daj's. Upon removing the wrappings and 

 sawing the block into sections, the ants were found to have become 

 active. A great number, several hundred, with a few larvge were 

 stowed away within this small space. As it was necessary to free 

 the formicary of its contents, all the ants were knocked out, and 

 deposited in the yard, to give them some chance for their lives. 

 A few happened to drop upon the ice, which lay several inches 

 thick upon the ground. Forty-eight hours afterward I found these 

 ants alive. They were imbedded in the ice within the small de- 

 pressions made by their animal heat. They moved about as soon as 

 removed and became quite active when placed in the closed hand. 

 I have had the opinion tliat man}' of these ants were destroyed 

 by our severe winters ; but the above facts, viz., the preservation 

 of tbe entire contents of the formicary, and the power to endure 

 unharmed forty-eight hours freezing upon ice, seem to indicate 

 that most of these insects survive the winter, and enter upon the 

 spring in unbroken community. The ants preserved in the bottle 

 had amongst them the wingless or fertile queen, and have been 



' Camponotus Pennxylvanicus, according to Mr. Norton's recent classifi- 

 cation. 




187t.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



kept in a glass jar under observation. They become torpid at 

 night, but thaw out again in the heat of the room, and are very 

 active, cutting galleries in wood, and constructing galleries from 

 particles of paper and other litter cut into pellets. 



In connection with this, I will barely allude to observations 

 made on the 12th of February, 1877, upon the winter habits of 

 the Fallow ant, Formica rxifa. The ants were found in tlie hills 

 at temperatures var^'ing from 30° to 34° (Fahr.). At 30 degrees, 

 in the frozen portion of the cone of the formicary, they were active 

 but sluggish. In the centre of the hill at a temperature of 34°, 

 they were found active and lively. It would thus seem that these 

 interesting creatures are also proof against the rigors of our 

 mountain frosts, and the prolonged season of fasting which 

 , winter compels. 



2. The Ability of Ants to endure extreme Heat. — While en- 

 camped last summer upon Brush Mt., studjung the habits of the 

 Fallow ant, my attention was called to the following fact: There 

 had been placed upon the camp-fire a portion of a decayed stump, 

 one end of which touched the top of the wall of flat stones which 

 our servant had erected on two sides of the hearth. A large flat 

 stone was laid across tlie angle of these walls. The servant hav- 

 ing occasion to remove this stone found the under surface thickly 

 covered with black ants. I was called to the spot, and found that 

 a community of Pennsylvania ants (F. Pennsyloanica) had been 

 established within the stump, a fact of course unknown when it 

 was placed upon the fire. One end of the stump touched the 

 wall, over which the ants, driven by the heat, had passed, and 

 lodged upon the under surface of the stone. I did not take the 

 temperature of the stone, but it may well be conceived that it was 

 quite hot. The ants had clustered on the side toward the fire, 

 which filled the hearth. I rescued the individuals still within the 

 log. When the stone was dropped, the others straightway began 

 toscamperoff into the grass evidently unhurt, and not even incon- 

 venienced by their severe baking.' 



Mr. E. T. Cresson recently placed in my hands a package of 

 original MS. notes made by Dr. G. Lincecum upon the ants of 

 Texas. I find in these a fact concerning the agricultural ant, 

 Myrmica molefaciens, which shows something of the same sala- 



' The incident is fully recorded in Proc. Am. Ent. Soc, Dec. 187G. 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18TT. 



mancler-like qualities upon the part of that insect. A commu- 

 nity of agricultural ants was located near a blacksmith's shop, 

 which had been in operation for five years. During all that 

 period the smiths had built their fires for heating wagon tires, 

 upon the pavement or flat mound of these ants. This occurred 

 on an average as often as two or three times a week. Fre- 

 quently as many 'as nine tires a day had been heated upon the 

 mound. After five years of such experience, Dr. Lincecum 

 records that he saw numbers of ants at work, cleaning out the 

 entrance to their city, before the fire that had just been used 

 for heating tires was entirely extinguished. They seemed to have 

 learned all about fire, and knew how to work around and among 

 the half extinguished coals without injur3^ At the expiration of 

 the five years, the colony was not numerous, had perhaps suffered 

 a decrease ; but they had not been driven awa}^, and showed every 

 sign of strong determination still to "hold the fort." 



3. Ability to survive exposure under Water. — Last summer 

 (1876), I discovered near Marple, Delaware Co., Pa., a formicary of 

 mason ants,appai'ently a variety of F. rufa, the Fallow ant. The 

 nest was in the ground, the communication thereto being by a 

 gallery opening directly upon tlie surface. I placed these ants 

 for observation in an artificial formicainum which was insulated 

 in a tub of water. One night the covering by which the formi- 

 carium was protected during bad weather was left off", or removed 

 hy some meddler, A heavy shower fell early in the evening. In 

 the morning the formicary was flooded ; the ants were dead. 

 Dead and lying under five inches of water, mixed up with the 

 mortar, which the rain had formed with the soil that composed 

 the galleries. I poured out the water, and set the box in the sun 

 with a forlorn hope that some of the ants might I'evive. At noon 

 I chanced to open a paper box in which I had placed a dead 

 female ant of the genus 3Iyrmica, a jet black insect. It had 

 fallen into the tub, where it had been floating for many hours 

 apparently drowned. It was now crawling about the box alive. 

 Thereupon I visited my dead Fallow ants, and found three of them 

 moving about in the slush endeavoring to extricate themselves. 

 Another was struggling out of the muddy sediment in tlie jar 

 ■which formed the lower part of the formicary'. In short, the 

 greater part of the drowned ants proved themselves to be veri- 

 table Noachians and survived the flood. 




18TY.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 137 



I conclude, by giving anothei* observation from the MS. 

 notes of Mr. Lincecum. During protracted periods of dry weatlier 

 the agricultural ant of Texas is frequently found in great numbers 

 in the wells whither they had probably gone in pursuit of water. 

 Being unused to such a novel position, they are unable to return, 

 and fall into the water. Instead of succumbing individually to 

 the tlireatened doom, they extemporize a most efficient life-raft by 

 collecting and clinging together in floating masses as large as an 

 orange. In this condition the}'^ are often drawn up in the bucket, 

 and notwithstanding they ma}' have been in the water a day or 

 more, they are all found to be alive, although half drowned and 

 barely able to move. According* to Mr. Lincecum, tliis species 

 of ant cannot survive longer than six minutes under water, so 

 that the submerged portion of the globular mass must have 

 perished within that period, if the}' are suj)posed to remain in the 

 same relative position. Yet the ants are all alive! The ball 

 must therefore have been caused to revolve in the water. Shall 

 we account for this life-saving process by considering it simply 

 an accident of the instinctive struggles of the insects to rise 

 out of the water and reach and remain upon the surface of the 

 mass ; or, with the observer, shall we consider it the result of a 

 united, properly directed and s^'stematic motion of the disengaged 

 limbs of the outer tier of ants occupying the submerged portion of 

 the revolving mass? The former theory seems sufficient to 

 explain the phenomenon, but the wonderful intelligence of lij'me- 

 nopterous insects makes the latter opinion at least quite plausil)le. 

 In either case we have another example of the high endowments 

 of the Formicidae to maintain and perpetuate their race through 

 the severest struggles for life. 



10 




138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1817. 



NOTES ON THE GENERA ACIDASPIS, MURCHISON; ODONTOPLETJEA, 

 EMMERICH; AND CERATOCEPHALA, WARDER. 



BY A. W. VOGDES. 



The genus Acidaspis was established by Sir R. I. Murchison 

 in his Silurian System, published 1839. In the same 3'ear Di*. 

 Emmerich's De Trilobiten Dessert, inauguralis, appeared, with 

 the generic classification Odontopleura, for the same genus ; 

 therefore great doubt has been expressed with regard to the 

 priorit}^ of the two generic names ; the German school have fol- 

 lowed Dr. Emmerich's nomenclature, the British Palaontogra- 

 phical writers Murchison's generic name. The American geolo- 

 gists have generally given the generic name Acidaspis to species 

 of this family, with the exception of Dr. Lock, who classed a 

 species of this genus (C crosotus) under Green's Geraurus. 



The special study of American trilobites has caused us to in- 

 vestigate the earl}' works upon American palaeontology, and we 

 find this genus described by Dr. Warder (Am. Journ. Sci. and 

 Arts, vol. xxxiv., No. 2, p. 377, 1838), under the generic name 

 Ceralocephala. 



His generic characters are very imperfect; he has not only in- 

 verted liis description, but also his figure, mistaking the two 

 divergent spines on the neck-furrow for antennae. The generic 

 characters point to the two surface granules, the divergent spines 

 of the occipital furrow, the three pair of rounded lateral lobes 

 which occupy the spaces between the glabella and cheeks; also 

 to the connection of the eyes in front of the glabella by a strong 

 ocular ridge. The figure indicates good generic characters. 



Dr. Anthony, in the same journal, places a species under Dr. 

 Warder's genus, with the error of mistaking a pygidium for the 

 cephalic shield. 



Witli regard to Dr. Warder's generic name, Ceralocephala, 

 we advance the opinion tliat Dr. Warder has clearly established 

 his genus, having given a description accompanied with a figure, 

 and under the rule, his generic name, being the earliest, ought 

 certainlj' to take precedence. 



The objection may be made that the generic characters of Ce- 

 ralocephala are obscure and somewhat inaccurate. To this 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



argument we would advance as positive evidence, that the ac- 

 cepted genus Triarthrus^ Green, was established upon the errors 

 of its author. Dr. Green mistook the glabella for the entire 

 animal; and the genus Ogfygfia, Brongniart, was founded upon 

 tlie typical species Ogygia buchii, which was classed and de- 

 scribed by the author under his genus Asaphns. In fact, all 

 the Ogygia described by Brongniart have been referred to the 

 genus Asajjhus, except 0. desmarestii, the last species described. 



Corda objects to Warder's genus under the 10th Rule (Rules 

 for rectifying the present nomenclature of zoolog}^, British Assoc. 

 Adv. Sci., 1842) in consequence of its similarity'' to Ceratocepha- 

 his, J)e Candolle, Method us, 1794. 



These names, however, seem to be sufficiently distinct to pre- 

 vent confusion ; certainly they are as much so as many others 

 retained in natural history — for instance. Pica and Picus, Cyprina 

 and Gyprinus, etc. 



The objection to Geratocephala cannot be made under this rule, 

 for De Candolle's genus has been cancelled in toto by Bentham 

 and Hooker, who unhesitatingly refer it to the genus Panunculus. 



CERATOCEPHALA, Warder. 



Western Acad, of Xat. Sci., Cincinnati, May 2.5, 1838. 



Am. Journ. Sci. and Arts, vol. xxxiv., No. 2, p. 377, 1838, fig. 



Not Geratoeepkrclus, De Candolle, 1794. 



Odontopleura, Emmerich, 1839. 



Aeidaspis, Murchison, 1839. 



Ceraurns crosotus. Lock, 1843. 



Dicranurus, Conrad, 1841. 



Trnpelocera, Corda, 1847. 



Generic Ghar. — Head short, broad, truncate in front; the gla- 

 bella broadest at the base, with a median portion strongly sepa- 

 rated from the three lateral lobes, which are obscurely divided 

 from the cheeks; cheeks thickened, generally spinous at the mar- 

 gin, and the angle produced into spines; eyes smooth, convex, 

 connected with the front of the glabella by a strong ocular ridge ; 

 neck segment much enlarged, and generall}'^ produced into spines; 

 body of 9 or 10 segments (fewer during the metamorphosis), with 

 a narrow convexed axis, and horizontal pleurje which are produced 

 at their ends into spines ; p3'gidium small, axis abbreviated, limb 




l40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



multulentate, with one strong lateral rib on each side produced 

 beyond the margin {fide Salter, Decade vii. pi. vi.). 



With our present knowledge we would follow the lead of a pre- 

 vious author, and subdivide the genus Ceratocephala into two 

 groups, viz. : — 



I. Ceratocephala Trapelocera, Corda, 1847 ; type C. vesiculosa, Bej'rich. 

 II, " Odontopleura, Emmerich, 1839 ; type C. ovata, Em- 



merich. 



American Species. 



Acidaspis cincinnatiensis, Meek, 1872, Geol. Ohio, Pal. vol. i. 167, pi. 14 (fig. 



pygidiuin). Compare O. crosotus, Lock, O. prevoati, Barrande. 

 Ceratocephala ceralepta, Anthony, 1838, Am. Journ. Sci., vol. xxxiv. figs. 1-2. 



Meek, Geol. Ohio, Pal. vol. i. p. 169, pi. xiv., figs. 8-9. Cincinnati. 

 Ceraurus crosotus, Lock, 1842, Am. Journ Sci., vol. xliv., wood-cut, p. 347. Meek^ 



Geol. Ohio, vol. i. p. 165, pi. xiv. fig. 10 a-b. Cincinnati. 

 Ceratocephala goniata, Warden, 1838, Western Acad. Nat. Sci., Cincinnati, May 



25, 1838. Am. Journ. Sci. and Arts. vol. xxxiv., No. 2, 1838. Niagara group. 



Compare — 



0. vesiculosus, Bej-rich, 1846, Uber Trilobiten, pi. iii. fig. 7 a-b. 

 Danai, Hall, 1862, Geol., Wisconsin, vol. i. 463. No figure or descrip- 

 tion. 



Acidaspis Ida, Winchell & Marcy, Mem. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. i. 106, pi. iii. 

 fig. 13. 



Hall, 20th Regents' Report, 333, pi. xxi., figs. 8-9. Niagara 

 group, Bridgeport, 111. 



Prof. Hall refers (20th Regents' Report, p. 400) Acidaspis Ida^ 

 W. & AI., to his species A. Danai, and says A. Danai differs from 

 A. vesiculosus, Beyrich, " in being more transverse, in the nar- 

 rower front of the glabella, and in the straight instead of curving 

 ocular ridges." 



C. Halli, Shumard, 1855, Geol. Missouri, 200, pi. A, fig. 7. Cape Girardeau. 



C. Horanii, Billings, 1843-4, Geol. Survey Canada, 341. Trenton group, R. la 



Frepinne. 

 Dicranurus hamata, Conrad, 1841, Ann. Report Pal. N. Y., page 48. 



C. haiaaia. Hall, Pal. N. Y. vol. iii. 37, Also 15th Regents' Rep., 

 plate ii. fig. 1. Meek, Geol. 111., vol. iii. 390. 



Lower Ilelderberg group, Albany and Schoharie Counties. 

 Acantholoma spinosa, Conrad, 1841, Rep. 39. 



A. tuberculatus, Hall, Pal. N. Y. vol. iii. 368. ir)th Regents' Rep. pi. 

 ii. fig. 3; Conrad, 1840, Ann. Report Pal. N. Y., 205. 




1871.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 141 



This name was used bj'Kloden, for a species of this genus, vid. 

 Terst. der Mark Brandenberg, 112. 



Lower Helderberg group, Albany and Schoharie Counties, Xew 

 York. 



A. trentonensis ? Hall, 1847, Pal. N. T. pi. 64. Trenton group, Bay of Quinta, 



Lake Ontario. 

 A. speniger ? Hall, 1847, Pal. N. Y., vol. i. pi. 64, fig. 5. Trenton group, Mohawk 



Valley. 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



ON THE NITRATES OF TIN, ANTIMONY, AND ARSENIC. 

 BY GEO. HAY, M.D. 



Since the publication (May, 1876), in the Proceedings of the 

 Academ}' of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, of my paper on 

 Tin, Antimon}^, and Arsenic, I have attempted to isolate and 

 procure in the ci-ystalline form the nitrates whose reactions were 

 therein described, and now commit to the Academy the results 

 of my investigations. 



Prepared solution of protonitrate of tin as described in pre- 

 vious paper. Placed solution in porcelain cup over another cup 

 containing concentrated sulphuric acid, and alongside of this 

 placed several fragments of caustic soda on ground-glass plate, 

 and covered the entire arrangement with a ground bell-jar with 

 its edge greased. Exhausted the receiver of two-thirds of its air, 

 and left the solution for several days to evaporate. It became a 

 s\'rup3' liquid, of a yellow color, but showing no tendency to 

 crystallization, occupying about one-tenth part of the inside of the 

 cup. On the following day this syrupy liquid had the appear- 

 ance on the surface of dry gum Arabic, and was gently heaving 

 upwards from some gas being formed beneath the pellicle. Re- 

 admitted the air into the receiver and removed the sulphuric acid 

 and tlie gummy-looking mass to another plate, and covered both 

 with the bell-jar, its edge being greased. My back being turned 

 upon the apparatus, in about ten minutes a somewhat violent 

 explosion took place, without, however, injuring the bell-jar. The 

 bell-jar was filled with dense, orange-red fumes, so dense that I 

 could scarcely see the two cups inside. On removing the bell-jar 

 from the plate, I found that a remarkable change had taken place 

 in the contents of the upper cup. It was now quite full of a 

 wliite, flaky substance, and a stratum of the same substance was 

 Iving upon the glass plate. This substance I examined, and 

 found it to be soluble in hydrochloric acid, and to yield all the 

 reactions of iiydrated binoxide of tin. It contained a minute 

 portion of hydrate of metastannic acid, but no protoxide of tin. 

 The 3'ellow, syrupy liquid previously mentioned I believed to 

 have been protonitrate of tin, which had spontaneously decom- 

 posed upon being sufUciently inspissated. 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 143 



Prepared a fresh solution, and evaporated as before for several 

 days in a partial vacuum. When tlie liquid had assumed the 

 sj-rup}- condition, sliowing as previousl}' no disposition to cr3's- 

 tallize, I removed the cup containing it from the receiver. The 

 substance was entirely soluble in cold water to a clear fluid It 

 3'ielded with the utmost readiness all the reactions both of nitric 

 acid and protoxide of tin. From the above experiments, I con- 

 clude that protonitrate of tin is an uncrystallizable salt, of a 

 3'ellow color and syrupy consistenc}', soluble in cold water to a 

 clear fluid; and that, upon being sufficiently inspissated, it is 

 spontaneously decomposed into h^^drated binoxide of tin and 

 nitrous acid, that decomposition taking place with explosive 

 violence. Thinking it a dangerous compound, I have not sent a 

 portion of the syrupy liquid to the Academ3% The aqueous 

 solution of this nitrate (water 20 parts) remains clear at common 

 temperatures for about a day; but afterwards it becomes cloudy, 

 and after several days is entirely and quietly decomposed into 

 lij'd rated binoxide of tin and free nitric acid. 



Prepared antimony solution as described in previous paper. 

 Evaporated a few drops on a thin watch-glass over sulpliuric 

 acid, and examined the dry residue by the microscope. It did not 

 show any crystalline appearances except about the edges of the 

 spot. The remainder of the spot had a reticulated appearance. 

 The crystalline appearance was that of fine double lines. 



Evaporated the main portion of the solution, under a bell-jar 

 from which two-thirds of the air had been removed, over sulphuric 

 acid, with some fragments of caustic soda placed upon the plate. 

 After it appeared dry, I allowed several da^s to elapse to make 

 sure that all free nitric acid was removed. The residue was of a 

 yellowish-white color. Treated this residue with cold-water, and 

 filtered. A portion remained insoluble. The insoluble portion 

 consisted of antimonic acid, into which a portion of tlie dissolved 

 teroxide had been converted during the process of evaporation. 

 The filtrate was perfectly' clear, and gave easily all the distinctive 

 reactions of teroxide of antimony and of nitric acid. The portion 

 dissolved must, therefore, have been a ternitrate of antimon}-. 



Prepared arsenic solution as described in previous paper. 

 Evaporated a few drops on a thin watch-glass over sulphuric acid 

 until perfectly dry, and examined the dry residue by the micro- 

 scope with a power of 100 diameters. It presented the appear- 




144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



ance of bunches of cr3'stals, of which the individual elements 

 appeared to be rhombic plates of a white color, opaque, and very 

 deliquescent, so much so that the crystals while being examined 

 were dissolving, and in a short time were entirely fluid. 



Evaporated the main portion of the solution, under the same 

 conditions exactly as with the tin and antimony. Allowed to 

 stand two weeks after it appeared to be dry, and then proceeded 

 to examine. The substance was white, opaque, and very de- 

 liquescent. Applied everv test for nitric acid, but could get no 

 reaction. It will be remembered that, in m}- last paper, I stated 

 that I had obtained the tests for pentoxide of arsenic, without 

 mentioning whether teroxide were present or not. After evapor- 

 ation to dryness in the cold, I find that teroxide of arsenic is 

 absolutely absent, and in its stead I obtained all the peculiar and 

 distinctive reactions for pentoxide of arsenic. I therefore con- 

 clude that, even if there be a nitrate of arsenic in a solution 

 freshly prepared as previously described, it is probable that it 

 cannot be isolated, for during evaporation, even in the cold, it is 

 entirely converted into arsenic pentoxide. 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 145 



April 3. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Forty-nine members present. 



April 10. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Forty-five members present. 



Papers entitled "On the Carabari of Northern Indiana," by 

 Wm. F. Bandy, and " On Lavendulite from Chili," by E. Gold- 

 smith, were presented for publication. 



Remarks on the Yelloiv Ant. — Prof. Leidy remarked that 

 recently while seeking certain animals beneath stones in the 

 woods of onr vicinity, he had had the opportunity of observing the 

 Yellow Ant, Formica flava, in possession of large numbers of 

 other insects. This fact, in itself common enough, in one respect, 

 was new and of special interest to him, and may be so to others. 

 In one instance a comparatively small colony of the Yellow Ants 

 bad three different insects in their possession, consisting of a 

 species of Ajyhis^ a Coccus, and the larva of an insect, probably 

 coleopterous. The Aphides were kept in two separate herds, 

 and tliese were separated from a herd of Cocci. The larva was 

 in the midst of one of the former herds. In a larger colony of 

 the Yellow Ants, there was a herd of Aphides which occupied 

 the under part of one margin of the stone and was almost ten 

 inches long by three-fourths of an inch in breadth. The same 

 colon}' also possessed a separate herd of Cocci, closel}- crowded 

 and occupying almost a square inch of space. In both colonies 

 the Aphis and the Coccus were the same. The Aphis is pale 

 yellow with white tubercles on the dorsal surface of the abdominal 

 segments. The Coccus is of a dark-red hue. Both Aphides and 

 Cocci with few exceptions adiiered to the under surface of the 

 stones, and were not attached to roots. They appeared to be 

 carefully attended by the ants, which surrounded them. The larva 

 alluded to was almost six millimetres long, was covered on the 

 back witli a thick white cotton-like secretion. It was also care- 

 fully attended by the ants, which were frequently observed to 

 stroke it with tlieir antennae. The Aphides and Cocci were all 

 in good condition, but Avithout visible means of subsistence ex- 

 cepting the neighboring grass roots partially extending into the 

 earth heneath tlie stones, to which it is probable they were at 

 times transferred by their masters. 




146 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [187T. 



On Coecum of Gapybara. — Dr. H. C. Chapman stated that in 

 making a post-mortem examination of tlie Capybara {Hydro- 

 choerus Capybara), which recently died at the Zoological Garden, 

 his attention was particularly called to the size of the coecum, 

 which measured thirty-four inches in length, with a circumference 

 of eighteen inches in its widest portion. Xot only is the organ 

 relatively enormous when compared with the size of the animal, 

 but absolutely so when it is remembered that the coecum in the 

 horse and rhinoceros, while more capacious, attains, however, only 

 a length of thirty and thirty-six inches respectively. 



As regards the form of the coecum, with the exception of the 

 blind extremity being more obtuse than is usually seen in rodents, 

 there was nothing peculiar. Noticeable, however, was its marked 

 sacculated condition, due to the well-developed longitudinal 

 bands. 



Length of Capybara 38 inches. 



" " small intestine .... 248 " 



" " large intestine .... 48 " 



" " coecum 34 " 



On Rejlex Action in Turtles. — Dr. H. C. Chapman remarked 

 that he took the opportunity of calling attention to the fact that 

 decapitated turtles exhibit a responsive action to the application 

 of acetic acid similar to that first observed by Pfliiger in frogs. 

 Not having at his disposition a frog, and Avishing to demonstrate 

 some of the phenomena of reflex action, he decapitated a turtle, 

 and three hours afterward applied a drop of acetic acid to the 

 anus. Almost immediately both the posterior extremities came 

 from out of the shell, and, turning towards each other, with 

 flexed toes made efforts to remove the acid. Twenty-four hours 

 later he repeated the experiment, Avith the same result. 



April U. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Fortj^-one members present. 



A paper entitled " Report on the Brachiopoda of Alaska and 

 the Adjacent Shores of Northwestern America," b}' AV. II. Dall, 

 was presented for publication. 



The election of Dr. J. Gibbons Hunt as Professor of Histology 

 and Microscopic T'echnology was announced. 



On Intestinal Parasites of Termes Jlavipes. — Prof. Leidy re- 

 marked that in seeking small animals l)eneath stones and frag- 

 ments of wood in our forests, observing the very common White 

 Ant, Termes Jlavipes^ he noticed that the intestine of tlie insect, 




ISTT.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 147 



seen in the translucent abdomen, was distended with brown mat- 

 ter. Feeling curious to learn the exact nature of this matter, he 

 was surprised to find that it consisted largely' of infusorial and 

 other parasites, mingled with minute particles of decayed wood. 

 In many instances the parasites are so numerous as to make up 

 tlie greater portion of the bulk of the intestinal pulp. Every in- 

 dividual he had examined, of workers, soldiers, and winged forms, 

 was infested with the parasites, which ma^^ be estimated by mil- 

 lions. As the discovery to him of this new world of parasitic 

 life was recent, he had not yet had time to sufficiently examine 

 scientific literature to ascertain whether the parasites had been 

 discovered and described by others. M. C. Lespes, in a memoir 

 on the organization of the Termes lucifugus of France, published 

 in the Annales des Sciences Naturelles for 1856, remarks that the 

 intestine is usually occupied by a kind of brown pulp, a living 

 agglomeration of infusoria, and in another paper in the same vol- 

 ume, after describing a nematoid worm, Isacis migrans, infesting 

 the Termes, he remarks that he had found in the intestine of the 

 insect a great quantity of parasites, upon which he proposed to 

 say something in future. 



The parasites observed in our White Ant consist of five differ- 

 ent kinds, of which three are animal and two vegetable in charac- 

 ter. One of the latter consists of filaments of the algoid form he 

 had once described under the name of Arthromitus, the other not 

 so frequent is a Spirillum, probabl}' S. undida. 



The animal parasites, of which drawings were exhibited, are as 

 follows : — 



1. Trichonyjipha agilis. 



This is a remarkable creature of obscure afflnitj-, but probably 

 related with the Tarbellaria on the one hand and \>y evolution 

 with the CiUate Infusoria on the other. The animal is about 

 ^^gth of an inch long and about half the breadth of the length. 

 It is fusiform, and is clothed with ciliate hairs of extraordinary 

 lengtli. The head is mammilliform ; the posterior end of the body 

 from subacute to obtuse according as it is narrowed or shortened 

 b}^ contraction. The cilia investing the bod}- appear to consist of 

 three sets: the shoi-test ones waving outwardly' and downward 

 from the head ; a second set extending from the head the length 

 of the body, incessantly waving downward and swelling out- 

 wardly ; and the third set, the longest of all, extending from the 

 head beneath the others in a longitudinal spiral manner far be- 

 yond the posterior end of the body, where they form a loosely 

 twisted fascicle with divergent ends. The arrangement of the 

 long cilia, clothing the body, reminded him of the nymphs in 

 a recent spectacular drama, in which they appeared with their 

 nakedness barel}^ concealed by long cords suspended from the 

 shoulders, and this arrangement has suggested the name applied 

 to the parasite. 




148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [l8tT. 



He was not positive wliether he had been able correctl}^ to in- 

 terpret tlie interior structure of the animal, but it a|)peared to 

 him to resemble more that of the Rhahdocoela than that of any 

 of the Protozoa. Xo appearance of vascular or nervous system 

 could be detected. The animal appeared to be capable of ingest- 

 ing particles of solid food frequenth' observed in considerable 

 quantit}' in the stomach occupying the posterior two-thirds of the 

 body. The month apparently' was a rounded pore at the summit 

 of tiie head. From this a narrow tube expanded in a pharyngeal 

 pouch communicating behind witii the capacious stomach. An 

 anal outlet may exist at tiie back end of the bodj', but was not 

 detected. Opposite the conjunction of the pharyngeal pouch and 

 the stomach, a granular nuclear bodv is constantly observed. 



Tn'chonympha, though incessant!}' and actively in motion, 

 usually remains stationary in position, but occasionally advances 

 with feel)le jerking propulsion. The chief movements consist in 

 frequent retraction or shortening and bending of the cephalic end 

 with rapid waving and swelling outwardly of the long ciliary 

 hairs. The motion of the latter resembles the flowing of a thin 

 sheet of water over the brim of a fountain vase or basin swa3'ed 

 to one side or the other by a current of wind. The longest cilia, 

 extending beyond the back of the body in a loosely twisted fas- 

 cicle, are the least active, but at times stretch outwardly and be- 

 come more divergent at the ends, or they become more closely 

 applied to the sides of the body. When the head is bent to one 

 or the other side, with the summit directed forwai'd, it gives rise 

 to an appearance resembling the spiral peristome of a Sfentor. 

 Viewed on end, the parasite ap[)ears circular with long divergent 

 cilia, and reminds one of the upper view of a Vorticella. 



2. Pyksontmpha vertens. 



The remaining two animal parasites are Infusoria. The larger 

 of the two is often more abundant than the Trichonympha.^ and 

 is about the ^^^th of an inch in length. It is more delicate, less 

 distinctly defined, and undergoes ra))id dissolution after removal 

 from the intestine of the Termite. It is elongated fusiform, or 

 when shortened clavate or pyriform in outline. Like Triehonym- 

 pha, it usually remains stationary in position, while activel}' mov- 

 ing, writhing, apparently twisting, and often bending in a waving 

 manner from one extremity to I he othei'. In motion, longitudi- 

 nally spiral and parallel lines become more or less evident, and 

 frequently cause serrated projections at the extremities, or at the 

 prominence of the bends when produced at the lateral borders. 

 These exhibit a rapid waving motion, strikingly resembling the 

 movement of flames, and probably denoting the presence of mi- 

 nute cilia, though these were not positivel}' seen. A narrow 

 band extends the length of the bod^', sometimes projecting at one 

 end, and moves in long, angular waves, flexing the body in ac- 




18TT.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 149 



cordance with its movement. The bod}' appears to be composed 

 of finely granular protoplasm, with but faint distinction of endo 

 and ectosarc. A large oval or round granular nucleus occupies a 

 position in advance of the middle of the bod}'. The position of 

 the mouth was not detected, though one is most probably present, 

 as the animalcule is often replete with large particles of food, 

 consisting of bits of wood. Pyritouympha may be the larval con- 

 dition of Trichonymjjha, though there is no evidence that such is 

 the case. 



3. DiXENYMPHA GRACILIS. 



A Ciliate Infusorian, the smallest and most abundant of the three 

 animal parasites, about ^loth of an inch in length, is flattened, 

 fusiform, and in motion often twisted. It is longitudinally and, 

 in the twisted condition, spirally striated, and is invested every- 

 where with fine cilia. The animal usuall}', remaining like its com- 

 panions nearly stationary in position, writhes from side to side, 

 shortens and widens, or lengthens and contracts, and rotates iu 

 the long axis. The longitudinal lines of the body by contraction 

 produce a serrated appearance at one end, or at the prominences 

 of the lateral borders when the body is twisted. The interior of 

 the body is finely granular, often with one or more large globules, 

 probably consisting of a nucleus, and at times of contractile vesi- 

 cles or vacuoles. Xo mouth could be detected, although one pro- 

 bably exists, as the animal often contains particles of solid food, 

 sometimes comparatively of enormous size. 



The great accumulation of parasites, apparently constantly ex- 

 isting in the White Ant, one of our most common insects, will 

 afford a new and wonderful source of delight to our microscopists. 

 They should be examined in a denser liquid than water, as this 

 produces their rapid destruction. The white of egg thinned with 

 water, Prof. L. finds to be a good medium in which to examine 

 these and other minute parasites from the interior of animals. 



The nematoid worm Isacis migrans, discovered M. Lespes, so 

 abundantly existing within the Termes hicifugus, and also ex- 

 ternally in the nest of this insect, in France, Prof. L. had occa- 

 sionally found in the Termes Jiavipes. 



On the Eucalyptus Globulus. — Joseph Wuarton remarked 

 that about five years ago he wrote to London for seeds of the 

 Eucalyptus globulus, and had them planted in his green-house in 

 the early spring of 1872. The young trees throve well there, and, 

 when transplanted, grew vigorously in the open air until the ap- 

 proach of winter led him to remove them to the green-house. By 

 thus -putting them in the open air ever}' spring, and replacing 

 them under glass during the winter, the}' continued to grow until 

 in the fall of 187G he gave several to the horticultural depaitment 

 of the Centennial Exhibition, and several to a friend ; others he 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



kept in his house as before. The plants at the Centennial Exhi- 

 bition attained a height of about 20 feet, and were, when he last 

 saw them, still flourishing, though rather too slim; those given 

 to his friend were cut down on account of being too spindling, 

 and are reported as being sturdy ; those in his own hands grew 

 out of doors as usual last summer, but, instead of being taken in 

 on the approach of winter, they were laid down and covered with 

 leaves and earth, in order to test their ability to resist in that way 

 our winter climate. Upon taking them up this spring every one 

 of them was found to be quite dead. 



His object in raising these plants was to learn whether any 

 chance existed of acclimating them here or in the swamps of New 

 Jersej', and his experiments result in the conviction that there 

 is no reason to hope for such a result ; though several hard frosts 

 late in the fall, with the thermometer as low as 25° F., had on 

 several occasions produced no injur}'' beyond the shrinking of 

 leaves, the first attempt to winter them out of doors with all 

 precautions, and after some maturity had been attained, ended, 

 as has been said, in the death of his specimens. 



Having read that Australia produces divers species of Euca- 

 lyptus, among them some that grow high up the hills, he wrote, in 

 1875, to Baron von Miiller, the accomplished manager of the 

 Botanical Gardens at Melbourne, for information as to the 

 i:)robable ability of any such species or varieties to withstand 

 our winters, and also as to the power of these trees to lianish 

 such insects as the Jersey mosquito. He replied that the hill 

 species were less valuable and important than the globulus, that 

 some of them would be likely to survive here, and that he sliould 

 not expect them to avail against troublesome insects. 



As a green-liouse plant he found the Eucalyptus globulus in its 

 early ^-ears decidedly attractive. Its foliage is of a peculiar color 

 (hence its common name of blue gum), and the leaves are cov- 

 ered with a sort of bloom from the exudation of its aromatic resin. 

 Its pungent and spicy or camphory odor was to him decidedly 

 agreeable; that this odor is supposed to be health-giving, or 

 destructive of malaria, another common name of the Eucah/ptus^ 

 viz., fever-tree, sufficiently attests. There is not the slightest 

 difficulty in growing the plants from seeds in an ordinary sand- 

 bed in a green-house. 



April 24. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberoer, in the chair. 



Thirty -six members present. 



Papers entitled "On the Evolution and Homologies of the 

 Incisors of the Horse," by John A. Ryder, and " Synopsis of the 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHTA. 151 



Fishes of Lake Nicaragua," by Theodore Gill, M.D., and J. F. 

 Bransford, M.D., U. S. N., were presented for publication. 



The Mineralogical Section reported its organization, and the 

 election of the following officers : — 



Director — Theo. D. Rand. 



Vice-Director — Win. H. Dougherty. 



Conservator — Jos. Willcox. 



Secretary — H. C. Lewis. 



Treasurer — Wm. S. Yaux. 



Recorder — H. C. Lewis. 

 Jos. G. Rosengarten, Edgar F. Smith, Ph.D., J. Marshall Stod- 

 dart, Jr.. and Gertrude K. Feirce were elected members. 

 The following papers were ordered to be published : — 




152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18T7. 



ON THE EVOLUTION AND HOMOLOGIES OF THE INCISOKS OF THE 



HORSE. 



BY JNO. A. RYDER. 



In the course of investigations made to determine the origin of 

 the type of incisors found in the horse, it was noticed that the 

 slightly worn third lower incisor from a horse, not adult, bore 

 a very striking resemblance to the incisors in Paloplotherium and 

 Palasofherium^ which are regarded by Kowalewsky and others as 

 ancestral forms of Equus. The tooth in question, which gave a 

 foundation to this supposition, agrees remarkablj' in form with 

 the incisors of the older genera mentioned, in tlie form of the 

 posterior basal ridge, which seems to be destined to form the pos- 

 terior wall of the central pit, or cul-de-sac — " mark" of horsemen. 

 This posterior basal ridge in the third tooth in the state of de- 

 velopment at the time of observation, occupied much the same 

 relative position to the space between it and the worn surface in 

 use at the anterior border of the crown, as the supposed homolo- 

 gous ridges in the aforementioned eocene and miocene forms. 

 That the space between the posterior basal ridge and the worn 

 surface functionally in use, is destined to become the central pit 

 or cul-de-sac of the tooth is proved by the condition in which we 

 found the third lower incisor under consideration, and the con- 

 dition of the second alongside of it. The posterior basal ridge in 

 the third has not yet been reached so as to be worn, and the 

 second still retains marked traces in section of the lateral grooves. 

 These seem to be the remains of the notches that once in buuo- 

 dont forms separated the tubercles, which formed a festoon (cin- 

 gulum; above the cervix of the tooth posteriorly, as observed in 

 the upper imier incisor of Dicutylt!^} 



The posterior basal ridge in this outer lower incisor is also 

 faintly marked ott" laterally, by a shallow longitudinal groove, 



' Since writing the above we have had an opportunity of examiuing iu 

 the Zoological Gardens the incisors of a young female doukey, iu which the 

 condition of development had not reached the state detailed iu the text. 

 Even the iuuer iucisor exhibits, when looked at from above, traces of the 

 parentage of the hiuder wall of the cul-de-sac, while the outer one is still 

 more nearly like the same tooth iu Palcevtheritttn, 




187Y.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



153 



from the anterior portion of the tooth, and a slight notch is pre- 

 sent in the middle of its crest. 



Tlie second incisor above, not yet protruded from the alveolus, 

 has a marked groove running along the posterior face of the tooth 

 longitudinally, a little more than .1 inch from its outer edge 

 where the posterior wall (posterior basal ridge) of the central pit 

 seems to be united with the anterior. There is also a central 

 longitudinal groove in the posterior wall, the wall being slightly 

 inflected along the course of the groove towards the centre of the 



pit. The posterior wall (posterior basal 

 ridge) is also considerablv shorter than 

 the anterior in this tooth, which was 

 observed to be the case in all of the 

 incisor teeth before being protruded 

 from the alveolus. 



When the worn faces of the teeth 

 are looked at from above, it is observed 

 tliat the two edges of the enamel plates 

 forming the anterior and posterior 

 faces of the anterior and posterior walls 

 are closer together in the posterior than 

 in the anterior one, showing that the 

 posterior has been the last to be brought 

 under the influence of wear and that 

 the posterior is likewise not as strong 



A. Eight upper incisors of adult ^iox as full}' clcveloped, retaining, as it 



horse, fully worn, all traces of the . •, ' » • i o -^ 



basal rid.-es being obliterated as ^Cre, in itS WCakuCSS, evidence of itS 



such, and now bounding the hinder later Origin. In regard to the homology 



borders of the pits. _ ,, ,. , j. i • ii 



T, T r* 1 • • t of the median groove and notch in the 



B. Left lower incisors of yonng •^■^v i ^ 



horse; the first tooth fully worn, the posterior Wall of the Central pit, there 



second partly worn, showing the , ■, r.^„ i,„i;„ , •„„. 4.1, „*. 



. . ' ',. f' , , .- seems to be reason lor believing that 



points of junction of the basal ridge ~ 



with the anterior part of the tooth, thc^' are the remains of the space sepa- 

 whiie in the third tooth the basal j.,^t,„g the lateral postcrior oblique 



basal ridges of the incisors of such 

 unspecialized forms as Anthracothe- 

 riwm and many others. 



Amongst other perissodactyle mam- 

 mals, as in Tapirus^ in the up[)er in- 

 cisors the posterior basal ridge is produce! and almost as high 

 as the anterior. The space between the two is sub-triangu- 

 11 



ridge is not yet worn. 



C. Second and third upper incisors 

 of Palaotherium medium, showing 

 basal ridge. (After Gervais.) 



D. Left lower incisors of Pa/opJo- 

 therUim minus with basal ridges. 

 (After Gervais.) 




154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [ISVT. 



lar, ver}^ shallow, convex from side to side, concave antero-pos- 

 teriorly, and covered with a thick enamel layer. In Palaeolhe- 

 rium there is a marked internal basal ridge on the canine, which 

 is very slightly marked in the horse. In giraffe, the basal ridge 

 seems to be developed in much the same way as in Palseotherium^ 

 in the third incisor at least, but has not advanced so high up the 

 posterior face of the tooth. 



These facts seem to point to but one conclusion, viz. : that 

 these basal ridges are homologous, and that the space between 

 the anterior wall, the primitive functional part, and the posterior 

 wall (basal ridge), is the rudimentar}' cul-de-sac, and that sooner 

 or later they are accelerated, becoming functional ; or, are re- 

 tarded, remaining rudimentary or disappearing altogether. 



If we regard the dental system of Equus as an acceleration of 

 the dental sj'stem of the primitive hippoid types, as has been 

 shown by the results of the researches of Professors Leidy and 

 Marsh, a clear explanation is at once afforded of the homologies of 

 the parts of the teeth. The relatively short teeth of the earlier, 

 and the relatively long ones of more recent forms, if we contrast 

 the molars and incisors, seem to indicate that the acceleration was 

 synchronous. The relatively short basal ridges of the early 

 t3'pes were produced in a constant ratio with the production of the 

 molar and incisive elements, culminating at last in the relatively 

 complex incisive dentition of modern Equina. This view is veri- 

 fied by the embryological history of the teeth in the horse, where 

 we actuall}' have a sort of repetition of tlie forms of the incisors 

 of earlier types. 




18T7.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 155 



REPORT ON THE BRACHIOPODA OF ALASKA AND THE ADJACENT 

 SHORES OF NORTHWEST AMERICA. 



BY W. H. BALL, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 



Having during the last ten 3'ears bad an opportunity of examin- 

 ing nearly all the known material, much of which is derived from 

 the collections of myself and party during the period mentioned, I 

 am able to present what appears to be a tolerably complete synop- 

 sis of the species inhabiting the northwest coast from Santa Bar- 

 bara Channel, California, to the Arctic Ocean. To this I have 

 added the results of some stud}^ of the general subject, regarding 

 the relations of certain groups of species and a hj'pothetical ex- 

 planation of certain very singular facts. 



TEREBRATULIDiE. 



1. Terebratulina unguicula. 



Terebratula unguicula, Cpr. P. Z. S. Feb. 14, 18G5, p. 201, fig. 1-4. 



Cooper, Geogr. Cat. Cala. Moll. p. 3, 1866. 

 Terebratulina unguicula, Dall. Cat. Recent Brach., Proc. Phila. Acad. 



Nat. Sci., p. 177, 1873. 



T. juniore " Terebratulinse capiti-serpenfii^^' simillima, sed 

 latiore ; costis conspicuis, interdum obtusioribus, aliis intercalan- 

 tibus ; testa adulta valva inferiore subelongata, inflata, marginem 

 versus baud planata; umbone valde tumente, latiore, aperta; 

 striis radiantibus conspicuis ; marginibus granulatis, undulatis ; 

 intus araento majore, latiore, annulato, bisinuato, in testa juniore 

 dorsaliter interrupto. Lon. 15 mm.; Lat. 12 ram.; Diam. 9 mm. 



San Oiego, Cal., to the Aleutian Islands. San Pedro, Cal., 

 Cp. ; Monterey, Cp. ; Neeah Bay, W. T., Swan ; Victoria, V. Id. 

 Lord, J. Richardson; Port Etches; Shumagin Islands; Una- 

 lashka; Dall. Range, low water to 100 fathoms, those from deep 

 water the largest, adhering to shells and stones. Thirty-eight 

 specimens examined. 



This species is readily separated from T. caput-aerpenlis^ T. 

 Japonica and other species, which strongly resemble it externally, 

 by the broad loop which is usuall}' open instead of being closed 

 as the genus requires. However, it finally becomes closed in fully 

 adult specimens which reach the size of T. caput-serpentis. In 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



describing it from immature examples, Dr. Carpenter was led by 

 this peculiarity to describe it as a Terebrofula, and it was a num- 

 ber of3ears before I was able to find a fully developed specimen. 

 All that I have seen from southern localities have been immature. 



2. Terebratella frontalis. 



T er ebr at ula frontalis, i\Iidcl. ^Malak. Eos. Ill, p. 2. Sib. Reise. II, p. 



241, pi. 18. fig. 9-14, 1847. 

 Terebrutella frontalis, Dall. Cat. Rec. Bracli, 1. c. p. 184. 



T. suborbiculari, solidula, calcarea, increment! periodis irregu- 

 laribus aspera, sordide lutescente ; valvis convexitate aequalibus; 

 linea marginali rectiuscula integerrima ; valva dorsali postice 

 producta, vix recurva, late truncata, foramina magno, latins 

 aperto, interrupto ; area cardinali augusta, utrinque interiora ver- 

 sus dente cardinali terminata; valva liaemali suborbiculari aut 

 transversim ovali, sulco mediano nuUo; apoplij'sis '•'' Terehratellse''^ 

 formis : Lon. 18 mm., Lat. 18 mm., Diam. ventr. 9 mm. 



Western Aleutians from Atka Island westward: the Okhotsk 

 and Japan Seas. Atka, Amebitka, Attn, Dall; Okhotsk Sea, 

 Middendorf; Japan Seas, Oapt. St. John. Range from low-water 

 mark to fort^' fathoms. Sixty-five specimens examined. 



The rude appearance, aslien color, and remarkably wide fora- 

 men distinguish this species from any other of the genus. 



3. Terebratella occidentalis. 



T. occidentalis, Dall, Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci., 1871, IV, p. 182, 1871, 



pl. I, fig. 7. 

 Waldheimia Grayi, of Cala. authors, not of Davidson. 



T. transversa, rosacea aut miniata, costis radiantibus angnlatis 

 ornata; valvis flexuosis, convexiusculis lateraliter angnlatis; 

 margine cardinali lente curvato; apice vix cminente; foramine 

 magno, interrupto, latins aperto ; cardo et apoph^'sis ut in "T(?re- 

 bratella;" area cardinali augusta, lata, conspieua. Lat. 18 mm., 

 Lon. 12 mm., Diam. ventr, 5 mm. 



San Francisco to Montere3', Cal. Pigeon Cove, Stearns ; Mon- 

 terey, Dall, Canfield, Cooper. Near low-water mark, to — ? 

 fathoms. Five specimens examined. 



This rare species externally resembles, in its sharp ril)s, trans- 

 verse form, and deep crimson coloring, the above-named species 

 from Jaiian, but it is a Terebratella^ and authentic specimens of 

 T. Grn;/i show that species to be, as it was described, a Waldliei- 

 inia. The color and dcopl}' notched margins distinguisli it from 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 157 



the common northern T. transverso^ the onl}' species with which 

 it is likely to be confoiindeil. It is probable that careful search 

 ■would reveal the habitat of this species, when it might be found 

 more abundantly. Most of the specimens known have been 

 picked up on the beach. 



4. Terebratella transversa. 



Terebrad.ila transversa, Sby. Tlies. Conch. 1, p. 2G1, pi. 73, fig. 114- 

 115, 1846. Not of Gould, Proc. B. S. X. H. vii, p. 323, 18G0. 



Terebratella raurina, Gould, Proc. B. S. N. H. ill, p. — , 1850. Exped. 

 Shells, p. 468, pi. 44, fig. 583. 



Terebratella caurina, Gld. Olia Conch, p. 97, 1863. Cpr. Sup. Rep. 

 B. As. p. 636, 1864. 



Terebratella transversa, Dall. Cat. Eec. Brach. 1. c. p. 185. 



T. variabilis, fusco-cinerea, transversa, convexiuscala ; costis 

 angulatis numerosis interdum bifurcatis plerumque radiata; mar- 

 giue ventrali flexuoso ; apice acuto, angular! ; rostro brevi, cur- 

 vato, foramine magno, interrupto ; area cardinali elevata, lata, 

 planata, margine carinato ; apophysis curta, '"'• Terehratellse^'' aliis 

 simillima. Lat. 25-40 mm., Lon. 1(5-25 mm., Diara. ventr. 5-15 mm. 



Shumagin Islands to Oregon. Coal Harbor, Shumagins; Se- 

 midi Islands; Kadiak ; Port Etches; Sitka Harbor; Dall. Vic- 

 toria, Y. Id., J. Richardson, Hepburn ; Neeah Bay, Swan ; Puget 

 Sound, Kennerly; Oregon, U. S. Expl. Exped. Range from low- 

 water mark to twenty fathoms. Sixty specimens examined, in- 

 cluding Gould's t^'pe. 



This abundant species is very variable in form and size ; the 

 northern specimens are the largest. Some are as transverse as a 

 Spirifer. Gould's T. fransvei'sa from Japan was never figured, 

 and cannot now be identified. It was not this species, which 

 Las in an}-^ case the priority. Sowerby's figure is sufliciently 

 characteristic to render its identification with Gould's caurina 

 tolerably certain. 



The transverse form in most cases, the ashen-gray color and 

 coarse ribs render its identification eas}'. 



5. Laqueus californicus. 



Terebratula californica, Koch, Kuster's Martini, viii, pi. 26, figs. 



21-23. 

 Waldheimia californica. Gray, B. M. Cat. p. 60, No. 8, Cpr. Sup. Rep. 



Br. As. p. 568, 636. 

 Laqueus californicus, Dall, Am. Journ. Conch, vi, p. 123, 1870; pi. 



7, fig. f., pi. 8, fig. 9-10. Cat. 1. c. p. 186. 



T. magna, rhomboideo-ovalis, valde inflata, tenuis, rufescente, 




158 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF £1877. 



striiilis incrementi solum insculpta; A-alva hremali ventricosa, 

 sulco mediano nuUo, margine postico vix angulato ; valva doisali 

 postice rostrata, foraraine minimo, integro; rostro brevi valde 

 incurvato; apophysis ut in '•^Laqueus.''^ Lat. 45 mm., Lon. 

 55 mm., Diam. 35 mm. 



Port Etches, Prince William Sound, to Catalina Island, Cal. 

 Port Etches, Dall ; Victoria, J. Richardson; Catalina Id., Cooper. 

 Eange from fifteen to one hundred and twenty fathoms, the larger 

 specimens generally from deep water. Twelve specimens ex- 

 amined. 



This species may be recognized by its large size, smooth rufous 

 exterior, and small and complete foramen. It somewhat resembles 

 Waldheimia venosa, from Cape Horn, but has not the strongly 

 marked venations, and is of a different form and color. It is 

 everywhere rare, owing to its deep-water habitat. 



6. Megerlia Jeffreys!. 



Jsmeniu ? Jefreysi, Dall, Am. Journ. Conch, vii, p Go, pi. xi, fig. 7-10, 



Mar. 1871. 

 Megerlia (Ismenia) Jeffreysi, Dall, Cat. 1. c. p. 187. 

 Waldheimia cranium, juu., Friele (ex parte) Vidensk. Forh. p. 2, pi. 

 1, f. 9 a-i, 1875. 

 Testa parva, lenticularis, tenuis, orbiculato-trigona, cinereo- 

 alba ; valva minor convexiuscula, suborbiculata, margine recto, 

 apice inconspicuo, vix angulato; valva major convexior, apice 

 truncato, brevi, recto, foramine modico, interrupto; area cardi- 

 uali inconspicua; apoph^-sis tenuissima, plerumque exilis, " Jl/e- 

 gerlise sanguiniis,^^ simillima. Lon. 10 mm., Lat. 10 mm., Diam. 

 ventr. 4 mm. 



Deep water, X. E. Atlantic ; Semidi Islands to Victoria in the 

 Pacific. N. E. Atlantic, 155-345 fathoms, Jeffreys, with Wahl- 

 hehnia cranium. Semidi Lslands; Port Etches ; Dall.; Victoria, 

 V. Id., J. Richardson. Sixteen specimens examined. For so 

 rare a shell this has an extraordinar}- range. It much resembles 

 the young of the last species, but never attains mucli greater size 

 than half an inch in diameter, and has an incomijlete foramen. 

 The color varies from ashy yellow to rufous. The specimens 

 from the northwest coast were obtained in from fifteen to twenty 

 fathoms water. 



It is probable that it has frequently been taken for the young 




ISYT.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 159 



of other species, and that a careful examination of small speci- 

 mens would much extend our knowledge of its distribution. 

 The septum is generally almost evanescent. 



7. Magasella aleutica. 



MagaxeUa aleutica, Dall., Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci., Dec. 1872, p. 302, pi. 

 I., fig. 6. Cat. 1. c. p. 188. 



T. parva, suhinflata, solida, orbiculato-trigona, rosacea ant con- 

 centrice rubido-picta; valva minor convexa, suborbiculata, mar- 

 gine leviter sinuato, apice inconspicuo ; valva major convexior, 

 apice erecto, truncato, conspicuo, foramine amplo interrupto ; 

 area cardinali distincta, apophysis tenuissima, septum conspicuum 

 munita. Lon. 10 mm., Lat. 9 mm., Diam. ventr. 4 mm. 



Aleutian Islands to Port Etches. 



Kyska Id.; Adakh Id.; Atka Id.; Unalashka Id.; Shumagin 

 Ids. ; Port Etches ; Dall. Range from low water to ten fathoms. 

 Fifty specimens examined. 



This little species differs externalh' from the 3"oung of T. fron- 

 talis^ onl}' by its rosj' color and neater projiortions ; from young 

 L. caJifornicus by its open incomplete foramen, and from the 

 last species hy its greater solidit3', bright tints, loop, and promi- 

 nent septum. It has somewhat the aspect of M. inconspicua, Sbj'., 

 from Xew Zealand. 



8. Magasella radiata, n. s. 



M. testa minuta, cuneata, triangulata, radiato-costata ; hand in- 

 flata; costis radiatis circa xvi. ornata; lineis concentricis sparsim 

 striata; foramine aperto, interrupto; deltidium nullum; apice sub- 

 acuto; testa lutea aut cinereo-alba. Lon. 0.5 mm., Lat. o mm., 

 Lon. neural valve, 4 mm. 



Shell small, nearly triangular, the greatest width near the an- 

 terior margin, which is gentl}' rounded ; somewhat flattened or 

 compressed, with about sixteen moderately strong radiating ribs 

 or costse on each valve. These are continuous from the beak to 

 the margin, not divaricating; some lines of growth well marked; 

 foramen incomplete, large ; apex rather acute ; color wax}- or 

 ashy-gray. Interior as usual in this genus, with a strong septum. 

 Shell quite solid and strong. Length 0.2 in.; of neural valve 

 0.17 in.; width 0.2 in. 



Popoff Strait, Shumagin Islands ; one specimen, with 31. Aleu- 

 tica adhering to stones at lowest spring tides. 



This species is quite distinct from an}' other in the region. It 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADE>rY OF [1817. 



is sc 111}) til red somewhat like T. transversa^ from which it is suffi- 

 ciently distinguished by its form, absence of meditiu flexure, size, 

 compression, and apophyses. It also recalls in some respects M. 

 Patagonica, which has divaricating costse, and is of a different 

 shape. 



RHYNCHONELLID^. 



9. Rhynchonella (Hemitliyris) psittacea. 



Anoi/iid psittttced, Gmclin, Sys. Nat. 3348. 



HemithyrispsiWicen, D'Orb. Pal. Fran. Ter. Cret. IV. p. 342, 1847. 



Rhynchonella psittacea, Auct., Rve. Conch. Ic. pi. 1, fig. 2, a-c. 



Jlemithyn's psittacea, Dall. Cat. 1. c. p. 196. 



Rhynchonella Woodwnrdi, A. Ad. Dav. P. L. S. 1871, p. 309. 



T. subglobosa, postice acuminata, tenui, cornea, nigricante; 

 valvis inoeqiialibus, radiatim concinne sulcatulis; linea marginali 

 ex uuibone declivi, denium ascendente et antice valde sinuata; 

 valva dorsali postice acuta, recurva, antice deflexa, sulco mediano, 

 lato, area cardinali inconspicua, deltidiis augustis, ad latera fora- 

 minis coalescentibus ; valva hfemali, ventricosiore, dentibus car- 

 dinalibus internis ex umbone porrectis, recurvis duobus ; margine 

 val varum integerrimo. Lon. 25 mm., Lat. 22 mm., Diam. ventr. 

 16.5 mm. 



Boreal and Arctic Seas. On the northwest coast from Fuca 

 Strait to the Arctic; Japan ; North European Seas; ever^-where 

 abundant. 



This well-known species is of circumpolar distribution, varying 

 in depth from low-water mark to two hundred fathoms or more. 

 In examining specimens from the shores of Alaska, I thought at 

 first that by their coarser growth and grooving they were distin- 

 guished from Norwegian specimens. But after an examination 

 of several hundreds of specimens, I have been forced to conclude 

 that the differences noted were only individual or local peculiari- 

 ties. I have observed in a few instances the brachial •' arms" pro- 

 truded from the shell in living examples. 



LINGULID.a3. 



10. Glottidia albida. 



LliKjula albida, Iliinls, Voy, SulpU. p. 71, pi. 19, fig. 4, 1844. 

 Glottidia albida, Dall. Am. Journ. Couch, vi. p. 157, pi. 8, fig. 1-6, 

 1870. Cat. 1. c. p. 204. 

 T. oblonga, levi, complanata, antice truncata, albida sen bruu- 

 neo-maculata ; valva major, intus lainiuis duobus ex umboncm 




ISn.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rUTLADELPIIlA. 161 



divaricatis; valva minor, lamiiio uno, mediano, prope apicem 

 munito; pediculo pleiiimque brevi. Lon. test. 25 rara., Lat. 10 

 mm., Lon. tot. 50 mm. 



Monterey, Cal., southward. 



Monterey, Dall. ; Santa Barbara, Stearns, Newcomb ; Catalina 

 Island, Cooper; San Diego, Hemphill; ten to sixty fathoms, 

 mudd}- bottom, rarely on tidal flats in mud at lowest water. 



This species has not been found to the northward of Monterey, 

 though it may yet turn up somewhere. It is usually not over 

 three inches in length, peduncle included. Like other species of 

 Lingiilidfe, when young it is free, and burrows in the mud. Adult 

 specimens, with favorable opportunity, often fasten themselves to 

 a pebble or fragment of shell by the distal extremity of the pe- 

 duncle. This has been also observed witli Glottidia pyramiduta^ 

 Stm., in Florida, by Mr. F. B. Meek, though that species had 

 been supposed to be alwa3's free. It would seem probable, from 

 information communicated to me by Mr. Meek, that these crea- 

 tures are of rapid growth, and live at most but one or two seasons. 

 It is the only species of the Lyoj^omata j-et found on the north- 

 west coast. 



The following species, or supposed species, have been erro- 

 neously referred to the northwest coast, sometimes from mistaken 

 identity and sometimes from other causes. 



a. Terehratulina caput-serpentis, L., in error for T. unguicula, 

 Cpr. Real habitat. North Atlantic. 



b. Waldheimia Grayi^ Davidson, by erroneous identification 

 with Terehratella occidentalism Dall. Real habitat, Japan. 



e. TerebrafeJla Coreanica, Ad. & Rve., b^' erroneous identifica- 

 tion with T. transve7'sa, Sby. Real habitat, Japan Seas. 



d. TerehrafeUa pulvinata, Gld. Erroneous habitat caused by 

 confusion of U. S. Exploring Expedition labels. Real habitat, 

 Tierra del Fuego and vicinity. 



e. Discina striata, Schum., as Orbicida Evansi, Davidson, "Bo- 

 degas." Real habitat, Cape Palinas, W. Africa, and vicinitj'. 



In this connection it may be allowable to call the attention of 

 naturalists to certain facts connected with the group of arthro- 

 pomatous brachiopo Is which have been with me for some 3ears 

 a subject of reflection. Not having been able to suggest any 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1871. 



satisractovy explanation of the relations which appear to exist 

 between certain groups of the Terebratulidse, I desire to draw the 

 attention of others to them, in the hope that some solution may 

 be arrived at, and to place the facts on record. In 1871 I pro- 

 posed the name of Magasella for a group of Terebratulidse, mostly 

 composed of small species, and characterized, among other things, 

 by an incomplete foramen and a high septum, standing up from 

 the middle of the brachial valve, and to which the loop is attached 

 or appressed for a considerable portion of its length. 



This section of the family has been recognized as valid by 

 several competent naturalists. There are known, in all, about 

 eleven well characterized species of this group, beside one doubt- 

 ful species, 31. crenulata Sb3'. Four of these species have been 

 described by m3-self, and most of the others, not recently described, 

 have but lately been discriminated from species of Terehralella^ 

 etc. In working over the group certain facts become prominent, 

 whicli cannot be without significance when carefully considered. 

 These facts may be formulated as follows : — 



I. Each species of Magasella (with the exception of its generic 

 characters of apophj-ses and foramen) has a more or less pro- 

 nounced likeness to some species of another section of the Tere- 

 hratulidse. This likeness, in some cases, approaches identity 

 when the generic characters and size are taken out of the question. 



II. The species resembled are invariably' members of a section 

 of the family possessing a long or complicated loop, and usually 

 a median septum. In fact most of them are Terebratellas. 



III. The species resembled, usually though not invariabl}', 

 inhabit the same faunal region as the particular species of Maga- 

 sella which may be under consideration, and are often found 

 living with the latter in the same localities. 



lY. When there is an abundant species of Terehratella, for 

 instance, on any coast, it is almost invariably accompanied b}' a 

 species of Magasella of similar specific characters. 



This law is so invariable in well exi)lored regions, that I should 

 feel hardly any hesitation in predicting the existence of a com- 

 jianion Magasella, in a region not thoroughly explored, when the 

 l)revaience in that region of a species of the section Mogasinae 

 became known. 



Y. The genera Terebrafella and Waldheimia being the most 

 abundantly rei)resentcd of any of the genera of recent brachio- 




187 7.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 168 



poda, ma}' be said to represent to some extent the most full}' 

 develoi)ed of the brachiopods ; an inference borne out by the com- 

 plication of the loop as compared with that of other groups. The 

 loop of Magasella, being the most complicated of any (except the 

 few species of Megerlia), may thus be the latest exhibition of 

 evolution in this direction. The genus Magas (with which Man- 

 nia of Dewalque may perhaps be s3'nonymous) is not very closely 

 related to Magasella^ and leaving it out of the question it may be 

 added that, so far as known, Ilagasella occurs only in a recent 

 state ; another argument for its comparatively modern evolution. 

 In illustration of the above, the following parallel lists may be 

 adduced showing the seA^eral species of 3IagaseU a with their com- 

 panion species of other groups and the region to which they 

 belong. Such as exhibit speciall}' remarkable similarity in spe- 

 cific characters are marked with an asterisk ; those exliibiting 

 only a general resemblance are not so marked. 



3IagnsenaAdainsi,DiiY. ? Japan. 



3L aleutica, Dall. Laqueus californicus, Koch. Alaska. 



M. Cumingi, Dav. ? New Zealand. 



31. Evansi, Dav. Terebratella (?r»e>i/a, Dillw. New Zealand. 



M. Jiexuosa, King * Terebratella domata^ Gmel. Patagonia. 



31. Goiddii, Dall. Waldheimia Grayi^ Dav. Japan. 



31. incon^picua, Sby.* Terebratella rubicunda, Sol. New Zealand. 



31. leevis, Dall.* 'Terebratella jJuloumta^Gld.^ Patagonia. 



31. patagonica, Gld.* Terebratella dorsata, Gmel. Patagonia. 



31. radiata, Dall. Terebratella <?'ansuersa, Shy. Alaska. 



31. sitffiisa, Rve. ? Unknown. 



AVith some hesitation I add also — 



3fegerlia Je^reyiii,T)a\\.* Wald. cranium, Miill. N.E.Atlantic. 

 3Iegerlia sanguinea, Gh.* Wald. picta, Ch. Indo-Pacitic. 



Of the three species queried, 31. Adamsi resembles TFaM/i(?i»u'a 

 (rra?/2, jun., in a general way except in coloration; 31. Cumingi 

 is very peculiar, unlike an}' other recent species ; and the habitat 

 and probable companion of 31. su/ftisa are alike unknown. 



I have not included the section Imnenia (31egerlia) in my pre- 

 liminary remarks, but the species, cited above, present, in a less 



' A third, related to puUinuta as that is to Uzck., is Waldheimia venosa, 

 Sol. 




164 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



marked manner, similar peculiarities. The companion of Ismenia 

 Jefreijsi, on the Alaskan coast, would be Laqueus californicus, 

 to which the Alaskan specimens show some similarity; wliile 

 those from the X. E. Atlantic offer similarities which are very 

 marked with the 3'onng W. cranium. Xevertheless, except a 

 slight difference in color and solidit}-, there are no reasons other 

 than geograi^hical for separating the Atlantic and Pacific shells 

 which I have called I. Jeffreysi. 



With regard to W. jncf.a^ I can only judge from figures and the 

 remarks of descriptive authors, who all point out its similarit3' to 

 T. sanguinea. Both are ludo-Pacific in distril)ution, and have 

 been reported from Japan. In this connection it may be noticed 

 that the Maga^eUa and its companion do not always occupy the 

 same region at all points, but do usually meet at some common 

 point in their distribution. 



In the first portion of the list, the most striking instance of 

 similarity is that which is shown by Magasella inconspicua and 

 Terebra'ella rubicunda, jun. These appear absolutely without 

 differential specific characters, though the generic characters of 

 the individuals compared may be clearly marked. 



It must be clearl^'^ understood and borne in mind, that the simi- 

 larity' between the Magasella and its companion is usually only 

 remarkable when the young of the latter is compared with the 

 adult Magasella. The adult companion shells frequently acquire 

 characters belonging to maturity which, though too intangible to 

 be of specific value, much obscure the original resemblance. At 

 first the idea suggested itself, as a matter of course, that Maga- 

 sella (and Megerlia) was an immature form, especially as it wants 

 the median brachial coil as do the immature Terehralellse} The 

 evidence against this hypothesis seems to me to have greater 

 weight than that in favor of it, which latter chiefly- arises, as far 

 as Magasella is concerned, from the similarit}' of specific charac- 

 ters, and greater or less agreement in geographical range. Since 

 the preceding portion of this article was written, I have been made 



■ This paper had been prepared and read before the Buffixlo meeting of 

 the Amer. Assoc, up to the above point, when the paper by ]Mr. Ilerniau 

 Friele, published in the Vldensk. Selskab. Forh. for 1ST.'), was received 

 from the author, and afterwards supplemented by a series of his specimens. 

 The subsequent portion has since been recast to more fully present the whole 

 subject. 




ISTt.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 165 



aware that a species of Jlegerlia (subg. Ismenia) has been claimed 

 as the 3'oung of Waldheimia cranium by Herman Friele. I will 

 defer the examination of this special instance until the general 

 case can be presented. 



If Magasella be the 3'onng of the various forms herein deno- 

 minated "companions,'' 1st, the distril)ution of any two species so 

 related to each other should absolutely coincide ; 2d, the young 

 should all be 3Iagasellae ; the adults (barring dwarfs), all of the 

 "companion" genus; 3cl, actual study of the embryology and 

 3'oung stages should be able to trace the edentulous stage into 

 the Magasella stage, and that into tiie final " companion'' stage. 



Finall\- we should expect, with some show of reason, that the 

 relations of the one to the other in development should be in 

 harmony with the development of the group as a whole in geo- 

 logical time and organic differentiation. Tiiese expectations, 

 though reasonable, from analogy in a multiplicity of other organ- 

 isms, arc not absolutely to be insisted on, while the three pre- 

 ceding propositions are absolute requirements. 



What agreement exists between the facts and these requisites? 



1st, as regards distribution : There is abundant evidence that 

 the Magasella and its companion are not inseparable. For in- 

 stance, M. aleufica and Laqueus californicus meet onlj' about 

 Port Etches, which is the southernmost limit of the first and the 

 northernmost limit of the second. M. aleutica in that part of its 

 district, where it is most abundant, has no associate brachiopod 

 of its family except a Terehratulina. The same is probably true 

 of M. radiata, which is found at the extreme northern limit of T. 

 transversa^ and is absent where the latter flourishes in abundance. 

 In the second group, W. picta is reported from but one locality- in 

 Japan, while Megerlia sanguinea is rather common there; with 

 regard to their joint occurrence at the Sandwich Islands I am a 

 little suspicious that the Megerlia ma}' have been taken for the 

 Waldheimia b}' those unfamiliar with the apophyses, as 1 have 

 seen large numbers of the former from that locality, but not a 

 single Waldheimia. 



Again Megerlia Jeffreysi appears to be common in the Xorth 

 Sea and North Atlantic, and is not rare in the southeastern por- 

 tion of Alaska and British Columbia, reaching from tlie Semidi 

 Islands to Puget Sound, while its Atlantic companion Wald. era- 




IfiG PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18T7. 



nium and the genus to which it belongs' are unknown in the 

 Pacific district above described, and its Pacific associate has not 

 been found noi'th or west of Port Etches. It is impossible to say 

 whether similar discrepancies occur in the distribution of the 

 other species, as the regions they inhabit have not j^et been in- 

 vestigated with any thoroughness. 



2d. As regards the young and adult forms: Of several of the 

 species of 3Iagasella, the adults, or at any rate the largest speci- 

 mens which have come to hand, are nearly or quite as large as 

 the "companion" when also adult. This is especially true of the 

 t3'pical species of Magasella^ M. Evansi^ of which I have a speci- 

 men full}' as large as the usual size of T. cruenfa^ and much larger 

 than some of the 3'ounger specimens of cruenta, which have the 

 typical loop of Terehratella proper. The same is true of M. 

 Jlexuosa as related to Terehratella dorsata, ; and Pacific adult 

 specimens of Megerlia Jeffreyf^i are as large as the usual size of 

 W. cranium in the Atlantic. Nevertheless it is true that the 

 3Iagasellse are usually smaller tiian their " companions.'' 



I have recentl}' had the opportunity of examining a large series 

 of young Terehratella ruhicunda from Xew Zealand, and also a 

 lot of Magasella inconspicua from the same locality. No two 

 "companions" are more nearly identical in specific characters. 

 In fact no one can separate thera without examining the apoph}'- 

 ses. Yet in the 3'oungest stages of both (as well as the adults) 

 the generic characters are clearly and unmistakably defined. Mr. 

 Davidson has kindly informed me that he has had a similar expe- 

 rience with T. cruenta^ and has come to an opinion that it is highly 

 improbable that the Maga.sella is an immature form; in fact there 

 seems to be no good reason for adopting that view of the matter. 



Again, in this connection, attention must be called to the fact 

 that sometimes two Magaaellse will have only one "companion" 

 species between them, as M. Jlexuosa -f HI. Patagonica versus Tere- 

 hratella dormta, and one Megerlia has two companions^ one in 

 the Pacific and the other in the Atlantic. 



There are also some whose " companions" are unknown, or 

 which may be without companions, as 3Iegerlia truncala in the 

 ]\[editerranean (a sure case) and Magasella cumingi in New Zea- 

 land. Both of these are such remarkable forms that it is almost 



' W. cranium has been erroneousl}' accredited to Japan. 




1877. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 167 



unreasonable to treat them as if possibly immature. In fact, iu 

 regard to all the better known species of Magasella, those who 

 have studied them most will be the last to admit that they are 

 anything but mature organisms, and, by analog}-, it is natural to 

 suppose that other species less known, but i^resenting equal marks 

 of maturity, are adult also. 



3d. In relation to the progressive development. Of course this 

 is practically' the test of the whole question, but it may be fairly 

 claimed that it is a test which must be applied to each individual 

 species before the question can be considered settled. Data are 

 few and far between on this branch of the subject. Embryologi- 

 cal material to a considerable amount is available, but mostly re- 

 lating to the species with short apoph3'ses, or belonging to other 

 families. Morse has shown that the loop of Terehratulina begins 

 as two spikes at the cardinal margin, and the two spikes increase 

 iu length, and finallj' coalesce in the median line. I have ob- 

 served the same thing in Terehratula cuhensis. It is self-evident 

 that the loop of Waldheimia^ when adult, is merel}^ an extension 

 and reflection of the ideal loop of Terehratula, and the inference 

 therefrom would be that its development progresses in the same 

 way. This opinion I am, at present, inclined to adopt. In the 

 section JIagasinae, where all the species have the loop supplied 

 with an additional support in the form of a septum, a ditl'erent 

 state of things is to be found. The septum is the first part of the 

 skeleton to make its appearance. 



In Terehratella transversa {caurina, Gld.) the youngest speci- 

 mens, a twentieth of an inch in diameter, showed a septum bifur- 

 cate at top and notched on the anterior edge. The anterior part 

 of the loop is completed or nearly so, before the lower longitudinal 

 processes are complete from the hinge to the septum. In Maga- 

 sella aleutica the fty has a strong septum, entire and not bifur- 

 cate, before any of the remainder of the loop is developed. In 

 Megerlia Jejfreyai the j'oungest specimens I have seen (-j'^ of an 

 inch in diameter) have the loop well developed, and (whether this 

 is an abnormal feature or not, I am not prepared to sa}) laterally 

 compressed so that the longitudinal parts of the loop arc propor- 

 tionally closer together (in most eases) than in larger specimens, 

 and the septum is proportionallj- stronger and larger. In a large 

 proportion of the well-grown specimens of this species, there seems 

 to be a tendency for the septum and other delicate portions of the 




168 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1871 



loop to become abortive, but this T shall farther discuss later. 

 In all the Magasellae the septum is the strongest and most perma- 

 nent part of the skeleton. 



In Terehratella spitzhergensis we have a species which seems to 

 have just stopped short of being a 3IagaseUa, and Wald. Davidson- 

 iana, Seq., seems to have a tendency in the same direction, while 

 the strong septum of Wald. septigera only needs a pair of trans- 

 verse processes to make it a Terebratella. 



I have not seen ver3'3'oung specimens of iagueus calif ornicus ; 

 the 3'oungest Terebratella frontalis which I have seen agree in the 

 development of septum and loop with T. transversa, Sby. 



It seems, tlierefore, that the early development of some of the 

 "companion" species is incompatible with the idea of their 3'oung 

 stages agreeing with Magasella. If we assume that what is true 

 for two species of Terebratella is also true for the rest, six species 

 of the seven MagaseUse known to have "companions," will have 

 been taken out of the doubtful category'. I feel sufficiently cer- 

 tain that 31. aleutica, on geographical grounds, cannot possibly 

 be the young of Laqueus califoi'nicus. 



There are then remaining one species of Magasella and two of 

 Megerlia, which have Waldheimia " companions." Of the younger 

 stages of Waldheimia we have yet no positive information. 



Mr. Friele in his paper previously referred to, and which I know 

 by the plates onl}', as it is in the Norwegian language, which I 

 have not attempted to translate, appears to have primarily 

 assumed that the Megerlise were the j'oung of Waldheimia cra- 

 nium.^ because of their external resemblance and co-ordinate dis- 

 tribution as far as known to liim. But on the examination of a 

 good series of young llegerlia he found a state of things which 

 seemed to confirm his first assumption. 



Mr. Friele found the smaller specimens conforming to the gene- 

 ral type of Megerlia. Those with a pronounced septum he re- 

 ferred to W. septigera, but my own impression is that these 

 merely exliibited not unusual individual peculiarities. To me, in 

 examining the specimens, the transition from the one to the other, 

 as regards the septum, seemed ver^^ gradual. lie found larger 

 specimens, in which the upper processes connecting the reflexed 

 portion of the loop with tlie longitudinal bands of the looi), were 

 abortive. In tliis case the loop renuiining was generieally that of 

 Terebralella. In others, again, the septum had ceasetl to be con- 




187 T.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 169 



nected with the transverse processes, and the latter in some eases 

 had become disconnected from one another. In this stage only 

 the remnants of the transverse processes remained to distinguish 

 the loop from that of a Waldheimia. Hence he very naturally 

 concluded that he had before him the stages of development of a 

 Waldheimia, which must necessarily be either cranium or septi- 

 gera, no other species being known from that region. The result 

 was his paper. I am far from denying that this ma}^ possibly be 

 the case. At any rate, Mr. Friele is entitled to great credit for 

 calling attention to these very interesting facts. 



Thanks to his kindness, I have been enabled to examine a series 

 of nineteen specimens of Megerlia of different ages, which, with a 

 number in my own collection from the northwest coast, enabled 

 me to make a pretty thorough study of them, and incidentall}' to 

 confirm the general accuracy of his rather formal, but still charac- 

 teristic figures. 



It seems to me, however, that another hypothesis will explain 

 them, if not equall}'' well, 3'et in greater harmony with the analo- 

 gies of the case, and, taking the geographical distribution of Me- 

 gerlia Jeffreysi into account, with greater probabilit}' of accuracy. 



In the first place it is to be noted that the specimens offered to 

 me an absolute gap between the long characteristic loop of W. 

 cranium and the broad, elevated, rather short loop of the 3Iegerlia. 

 Even in the absence of the missing parts the loop was totally 

 unlike that of W. cranium,^ and if adult would as a Waldheimia 

 be specifically distinct from W. cranium. Secondly, all the speci- 

 mens showed a remarkable weakness and tenuity of the loop even 

 where complete; it seemed as if the abortion of i)art of the loop 

 was caused by an absence of lime ; or as if the specimens, growing 

 rapidly, and necessarily being obliged to dissolve the loop and re- 

 deposit it on a larger scale {a, process constantly going on), had 

 been unable to make the latter part of the process keep pace 

 with the former. There was nothing to indicate that the loop was 

 not rather an unfinished Megerlia than one in a process of meta- 

 morphosis. Some Alaska specimens in the National Museum are 

 much larger and stouter in everj- respect, than the largest of the 

 supposed metamorphic specimens, and also quite equal to the 



' Except a few spechnens, Avhich differed from the rest, and were un- 

 doubted youug (but not smallest) specuneus of W. cranium. 

 12 




no PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1817. 



smallest typical W. a- miium, hut they show no degradation of the 

 Megerlia t^'pe of loop. 



I have examined this subject in a good deal of detail, because 

 I believe that in it lies the key to some important generalizations. 

 Certainly if one vnvty have transformations including three now 

 accepted sections or genera in the life of one individual, it will 

 necessitate some changes in our sj'stematic arrangements. I do 

 not think we have in this case, yet it is none the less possible, 

 and would not be the first instance among invertebrates. 




187 T.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. ITl 



ON THE CAMBAEI OF NORTHERN INDIANA. 

 BY WILL F. BUNDY. 



Accompanying the collection of fishes made by Messrs. Cook 

 and Levette, a report on which has been recentl}' published in 

 the Proceedings of the Academ}-, was a small collection of craw- 

 fishes. The}'- were forwarded to me for determination by Profes- 

 sor Jordan. 



The following are the species and localities : — 



Cambarus immanis, Hagen, Long Lake, Kendallville, Ind. 



Not distinguishable from specimens from Central Illinois. The 

 young have lateral thoracic spines. 



C. obesus, Hagen, Long Lake, Kendallville, Ind. 



A few young females were found in the collection from this 

 locality. The most common species in the West. A female 

 caught in the mouth of a tile ditch at Mechanicsburg, Ind., on 

 New Year's daj^, 1875, had her abdominal legs loaded with eggs 

 nearly ready to hatch. 



C. virilis, Hagen, Long Lake, Kendallville, Ind. 



A few individuals apparentlv belong to tliis species, but the 

 cephalothorax is but slightlv depressed, and nearly- smooth above. 

 The inner ramus of first abdominal leg of male is not transversely 

 flattened, and the hands and fingers are less tuberculate. 



C. propinquus, Girard, Elkhart Eiver, Rome City, Ind. 



C. virilis, Hagen, Elkhart River, Rome City, Ind. 



C. propinquus, Gir., Deep Lake, Northern Indiana. Exact locality not given. 



The largest of this species I have ever seen measured 7^ deci- 

 meters from tip of rostrum to that of telson. Two females pre- 

 sent unusual variations. In one a second annulus appears be- 

 tween the third thoracic legs, somewhat similar in shape, but 

 smaller in size than the normal organ. Another has hooks deve- 

 loped on the third thoracic legs, precisel}^ as in males of the first 

 form. There is also in these craw-fishes a tendency manifested 

 toward multiplication of the lateral thoracic spines, there being 

 in some individuals two, and in others three of these on each 

 side. 




n2 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



A considerable number of this species, from an unknown 

 locality, differ in having wider, more gaping hands, thicker at the 

 base, as in C. placidu8. 



C. sloanii, Bundy, Bulletin No. 1, Mus. III. Nat. Hist., 1876, page 24. 



Rostrum wide, excavated, margins nearl}' parallel, straight, or 

 nearly so, acumen triangular, acute, toothed at base ; cephalic 

 carinas short, near margin in front ; antennre sliorter than bod}' ; 

 laminae longer than rostrum, moderately wide, external margin 

 curved, swollen, apical tooth long, acute ; epistoma wider than 

 long, excavated narrower in front, emarginate ; maxillipedes hairy 

 on inner faces, naked l)elow ; cephalothorax subovoid, dorsum 

 depressed, carapace finely granulated; lateral spines acute; ante- 

 rior border of cephalothorax distinctly' angulated ; areola wide, 

 posterior spatium wider than anterior; chela? short, conical, wide, 

 swollen toward base, nearly smooth below, finel}' granulated above, 

 inner margin provided with two rows of inconspicuous teeth ; 

 outer finger wide at base, nearly straight, furrowed above on outer 

 and inner margins, punctate above and below, inner margin with 

 a row of small tubercles ; inner finger curved, inner and outer mar- 

 gins tuberculate or serrate, more punctate above than below, in- 

 curved tips of both fingers brown, horn}' ; third joint of third pair 

 of thoracic legs hooked ; first abdominal legs of male bifid, parts 

 of nearly equal length, flattened, outer one nearly straight, apex 

 directed outward; inner part slightly recurved, separating from 

 outer part, and ending with acute points turned inward ; tuber- 

 cles at inner basal angle small, legs when folded under thorax 

 reach to coxae of second thoracic legs. 



In the second form male, the chelae are smaller and shorter, 

 hooks on third legs smaller, first abdominal legs articulated be- 

 tween node and base, tips swollen, not brown hornj-. 



The annulus of female has the anterior border scarcely separated 

 from fourth venter, posterior border elevated, posterior angle 

 prominent, bituberculate, the tubercles encroaching on fossa, late- 

 ral angles acute. 



This species is very similar to G.ohacurus^hwt on comparing it 

 with types of this species I find the following points of difference: 

 The rostrum is somewhat wider and more punctate above, the 

 areola is wider, the fingers less gaping at base, the branches of 

 first abdominal legs are round and slender in C. ohscurus^ and 

 straight, while in C. sloanii they are flattened, and bent outward 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 173 



and backward. The annulus of female is also decidedly difterent 

 in the two species. In G. obscurus it is divided by a cruciform 

 furrow into four tubercles, of which the anterior pair are largest. 



Length of largest male I have seen, 3^ inches. Tliis species 

 inhabits streams in Southern Indiana and Kentucky. Dr. Sloan, 

 who has studied its habits in its native streams, sa3'S of it: "I 

 think his habit of burrowing is peculiar. He commences on the 

 bank of the stream, burrows below the bed, and has an opening 

 two or more feet out in the stream, where he sits watching for 

 anything that maj' turn up, with a safe retreat. He can only be 

 caught in that position by thrusting the net deep in the mud, so 

 as to cut off his retreat." 

 Cambarus spinosus, Bundy, sp. nov. 



Rostrum quadrangular, long, excavated, smooth above, toothed 

 at apex ; margins parallel, curved ; acumen long, slender ; cei)halo- 

 thorax depressed, punctate above, granulated on sides; lateral 

 spines long, acute ; cephalic carinas parallel, black acute teeth in 

 front; areola present; transverse suture not sinuous; antennae 

 slender, very long, reaching beyond tip of telson ; laminae as long 

 as rostrum, narrow, tapering toward long, sharp, outward- 

 directed apical teeth ; long acute tooth at base; external margin 

 incurved ; epistoma wide, emarginate in front ; maxillipedes hairy 

 within, naked below ; chelae large, thick at base, smooth below, 

 punctate aboA'e, inuer margin finely serrate ; fingers slender, 

 curved, slightly gaping, costate above, smooth below, tuber- 

 culate and hairy on contiguous margins, of equal length, banded 

 with black on distal half; outer margin of outer finger with a 

 l)lack stripe reaching on hand to carpus; two or three black 

 spots on hand at base of movable finger ; carpus with a sharp 

 curved spine on inner margin, one on superior and two on in- 

 ferior front margin ; two rows of teeth on lower border of bra- 

 chium, outer row with onh' two teeth ; third joints of third pair 

 of legs of male hooked ; first pair of abdominal legs of male 

 strongly bifid, tips of equal length, very slender, straight, sepa- 

 rating at node ; anterior margin with a tooth or pz'ojecting angle 

 about midway from base to extremities ; apical forming a very 

 obtuse angle with basal half. 



The second form male has hooks on third legs smaller, first 

 abdominal legs longer, external part longer than internal, and 

 slightly recurved, both tips much thicker, no tooth on anterior 




174 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [181 T. 



margin, articulated below node and narrower at base. Tlie female 

 has smaller, narrower hands, straighter fingers, not gaping at base. 

 The annulus is directed obliquely backward, transversely ellipti- 

 cal, a large tubercle on posterior angle and two smaller ones in 

 front separated by a furrow continuous with nearly straight, well- 

 defined fossa. 



The longest male I have ever seen measured 3f inches from ros- 

 trum to tip of telson. The length of areola is contained twice in 

 the distance from transverse suture to base of apical teeth of ros- 

 trum, thus giving the animal a peculiarl}' short-waisted appearance. 



I have seen nineteen specimens of C. spinosus, of which seven 

 were second form males and eleven females. 



Habitat. — Etowah, Oostanaula and Coosa Rivers, in the vicinity 

 of Rome, Georgia, where it is extremel^^ abundant, in company 

 with C. extraneus. From the collection of Prof. D. S. Jordan. 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 175 



SYNOPSIS OF THE FISHES OF LAKE NICARAGUA. 



BY THEODORE GILL, M.D., AND J. F. BRANSFORD, M.D., U. S. N. 



During the spring of 1876, Dr. Bransford devoted some atten- 

 tion to the fishes of Lake Nicaragua while engaged in official 

 duties under instructions from the Secretary of the Navy. The 

 result of his labors was a collection of twent3^-one species, of which 

 seven are new to science, and several others have been for the 

 first time definitively added to the fauna. The following article 

 is an enumeration of the species collected as well as those other- 

 wise known as inhabitants of the lake. The responsibility of the 

 determination of the species rests chiefl}' with Dr. Gill. 



Lake Nicaragua is distant from the Atlantic Ocean, at its 

 nearest point, some sixt^'-five miles in an air line ; while in the 

 neighborhood of llivas it approaches within ten miles of the 

 Pacific. It extends in a northwest direclion from its outlet at 

 San Carlos, about a hundred and ten miles, with a maximum 

 width of forty. A depth of 125 feet was obtained by Com'dr 

 XulTs survey. 



Except in the valley of the San Juan, the land between the lake 

 and the Atlantic is higher and rougher than between it and the 

 Pacific Ocean. Mean high water in the lake is above high tide 

 in the Pacific — 103.14 feet; and above mean tide iu either ocean 

 107.63 feet. The lowest summit elevation on the west side is 

 43.78 feet above mean high water in the lake. This is about five 

 miles from the lake, on the Rio Lajas route. A surface of eight 

 thousand square miles is drained into this basin, which discharges 

 at a minimum in the dry season 113.90 cubic feet per second, 

 through its only outlet the San Juan River. The river is 119 

 miles long, and has five series of sharp rapids. The lake furnishes 

 the inhabitants of its shores with water excellent for drinking. It 

 is stocked with fish of great variet}', from the little Chirostoma 

 up to the shark and sawfish. 



Most of the fish are excellent for table use. They are usually 

 taken with a cast net, frequently at night, or with a hook and 

 line. The sardines, as they are called, the Chirostomse and 

 Pceciliee, are taken in weirs made of the branches of trees ; and 

 sometimes girls sitting on the rocky shore scoop them in wuth 




176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18TT. 



twigs as the swell throws them into the pools and passages 

 nmong tho rocks. Squier thus describes the fisheries in tiie neigh- 

 boring lake of Managua:' "At one point bushes were planted in 

 the lake, like fish-weirs, between which women were stationed with 

 scoop-nets, wherewith they laded out myriads of little silvery 

 fishes, from the size of a large needle to that of a shrimp, which 

 they threw into kettle-shaped holes, scooped in the sand, where, 

 in the evening light, leaping up in their dying throes, they looked 

 like a simmering mass of molten silver. These little fish are 

 called sardinas by the natives, and are cooked in omelets, consti- 

 tuting a ver}' excellent dish." " The first travellers in Nicaragua 

 mention this novel fishery as then practised bj' the aborigines, 

 and it has remained unchanged to the present hour." 



Crabs are abundant along the banks of the lake; and turtles 

 come ashore in great niuiibers, at certain seasons, to deposit their 

 eggs. 



Six years after the discovery of Nicaragua by Gil Gonzolez de 

 Aviola, the old Spanish Chronicler Oviedo resided for some time 

 in this region, and a few 3'ears later wrote a most valuable account 

 of the countr}'', its inhabitants, and productions. The following 

 is a somewhat free translation of extracts relating to fish from 

 his work : — 



" There are in this lake (or these lakes, if you think there are 

 several) many and good fish. But I believe it to be one single 

 lake, and there is a good reason for it, which is that it contains 

 very large sea fish, and from the sea they come into it, such as 

 sharks and many alligators and cockatrices. And Avhat confirms 

 and aflflrms my belief that it is only one lake and in communication 

 with the sea, is that in the year 1529 I found on the coast of this 

 lake, lying on the beach, in the Province of Nicaragua, a dead fish 

 that the waters must have thrown out, and which no man ever saw 

 or caught but in the sea; it is called the sword fish, the one that 

 carries a high snout at the extremity of the upper jaw ; that 

 ferocious sword full of sharp-edged tcetli (on both edges) closely 

 spaced. And this one 1 found dead, out of the lake, must have 

 come into it by said outlet, and, although over 12 feet long, it was 

 small, because the sword was small, not more than one palm and 

 three fingers long, and not wider at the root, the widest part, 



' Squior's Nicaragua, v. I, p. 412. 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 177 



than two fingers. There is a great variety of fish, and the water 

 is good and healthy, not A'ery light nor heavy." ( Yol. iv. page 63.) 



" The common food of tiie Indians, and one they are verj' fond 

 of, is the liver and sea fish ; they are very skilful in fishing and 

 in the artifices they use for the purpose. And as some use fishing 

 rods in Spain, the Indians in the same way fish with long and 

 flexible poles well adapted for the purpose, and with line and 

 bows, and more commonly with well-made cotton nets ; and also 

 with inclosures and partitions built in the shape of palisades, 

 and from their canoes or boats. And they also employ a cer- 

 tain herb called baygua, which, thrown in the water, intoxicates 

 the fish and after a short time the}' come to the surface lyino- 

 on their backs asleep or stunned; and the people take them with 

 their hands in laige quantities. This baygua is similar to bexuco.'" 



" But besides the fish thus taken from the rivers, they catch large 

 quantities of them in the manner I stated hereinbefore. And it 

 is my belief that these fishes from this country are healthier than 

 those from Spain, because they contain less phlegm, but thej' are 

 inferior in taste, though here are some very good ; such as small 

 a^id large lisas.jureles^ bemujuelas, mojarras^ guabi)ias,palomelas 

 bih abacas, sdoalos,robalos,jja7'quetas,cagones,sardinetus,co?'7iudas^ 

 pulpos, toUos, corbinitas, agujas, linguados, agedias, salvionades 

 (I do not mean salmons), hortias (oysters), almejas (clams), and 

 shell-fish of mau}^ kinds; langostas (lobsters), ca»crfy'os (crabs), 

 jaybos, camurones (shrimp), rojos, many and in some places very 

 large; anguilas (eels), morenas (muroenas) numerous and ver}' 

 large; (ibu?-ones (sharks), lobos marinos (sea lion), etc." (Yol. i. p. 

 424.) 



" They fish with poles, in imitation of the fishing rod used in 

 Spain, and with lines. I say they learned this v.-ay of fishing from 

 the Christians, because the Indians had no fish-hooks. Leaving 

 out these two ways of fishing from those I have mentioned, they 

 used to fish constantlj' in other manners, and also with judria-< 

 and with a kind of trap, in the rivers." (Yol. i. p. 425.) 



The worthy clironicler must not be judged too harshly for 

 his assumptions respecting the communicability between the sea 

 and lake, because of the presence of sawfish and other marine 

 types. In our days naturalists have based hypotheses and classi- 

 fications upon even less data and in spite of known facts. 



The earliest of the historians of Nicaragua was also the most 

 full and satisfactor}' in his account of its fishes. Later travellers 




178 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



have not added materiall}' to the ichthyography of the country, 

 and the allusions to the fishes made by Belt, Stout-, Boyle, etc., it 

 is unnecessary to recapitulate; they have chiefly adverted to the 

 presence of sharks in the lake; the existence of the sawfish has 

 even b^^ Squier been regarded as apocryphal. 



Almost all of our knowledge of the fish fauna of the lake has 

 in fact been gained within the last twelve or thirteen years. 

 "With the exception of vague allusions to the fishes referred to, 

 nothing had been published respecting them till the year 1864. 



In 1864, in the fifth volume of the " Catalogue of the Fishes in 

 the British Museum" (page 125), Dr. A. Giinther described a species 

 of Siluria under the name Pimelodus nicaraguensis ( = Bhamdia 

 nicaraguensis) presented by Capt. J. M. Dow. 



In 1864, also, in a " Report of a Collection of Fishes made by 

 Messrs. Dow, Godman, and Salvin, in Guatemala" (Proc. Zool. 

 Soc, London, for 1864, pp. 144-154), Dr. Giinther introduced four 

 new species, viz.: Eleotris loiigicejos { = Philypnus longiceps)^ 

 Heros citruiellus, Heros nicaraguensis, and Heros Dovii, all of 

 wliich had been obtained by Capt. Dow from the lake. 



In 1866, in the sixth volume of the " Catalogue of the Fishes 

 in the British Museum," Dr. Giinther made known two species of 

 Cyprinodonts, viz. : Gamhusia nicaraguensis and Poecilia Dovii, 

 both of which, like all the previously described species, were due 

 to Capt. Dow. 



Finally, in 1868, in " An Account of the Fishes of the States 

 of Central America, based on collections made by Capt. J. M. 

 Dow, J. Godman, Esq., and 0. Salvin, Esq." (Trans. Zool. Soc. 

 London, v. 6, pp. 377-494, pi. 63-87), Dr. Giinther introduced 

 still another new species of Heros — Heros longimanus. 



In the same memoir (p. 405) Dr. Giinther also gave a full list 

 of the fishes so far received from the lake, which then numbered 

 nine species, and contrasted them with those from other hydro- 

 graphic basins, viz. : — 



" E. Lake of Nicaragua. — Also the fishes of this lake are, with 

 two exceptions, peculiar ; like Lake Managua, it appears to have 

 been part of a marine channel. 



Eleotris longiceps. 

 Heros longimanus. 



cilrinellus. 



dovii. 



nicaraguensis. 



Heros labiatus (Lake of Managua) 

 Pimelodus nicaraguensis. 

 Gambusia nicaraguensis. 

 Poecilia dovii (in common witli 

 Lake Amatitlan)." 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 179 



The element of especial interest in connection witli the iclitliyic 

 fauna of the fake, is the association of forms that we are in the 

 habit of regarding as characteristically marine with those that are 

 at least as exclusiA-ely fresh-water t^'pes. Thus, with the species of 

 Cichlids and Characinids, of which no representatives have been 

 found in marine waters, we have a species of Megalops^ a shark, 

 and a sawfish. The association of the Plagiostomes in fresh water 

 is not, however, unique. As has long been known, a similar in- 

 stance of combination occurs in the Philippine Islands. " Xear 

 Manila," says Mr. W. W. Wood,^ "is the Laguna de Baij, a large 

 sheet of water some ninety miles in circumference, divided by an 

 island and two peninsulas, from which it is often spoken of as the 

 lakes. This lagoon receives the waters of the small rivers of the 

 provinces of the Laguna and Morong, and its only outlet is the river 

 Pasig, which flows with the bay between the military city and 

 suburbs of Manila." " The water of the lake is quite fresh, and, 

 after settling, perfectly potable." In this lake are found a sawfish, 

 which, according to A. B. Me^-er,' is specifically identical with the 

 Pristis Perotettii of the sea, and a shark which has not been specifi- 

 cally identified, but which is said to be "a small species of dog-fish, 

 and quite harmless." It is also known to naturalists that sharks 

 frequentl}' ascend to a considerable distance up rivers, and that in 

 large rivers, especially several in South America, species of rays, 

 not known to occur elsewhere, are found. 



The Merjalops has not hitherto been known to occur in bodies 

 of fresh water so isolated from the sea as is Lake Nicaragua. 



These instances, supplemented as they are by many others, are 

 sufficient to convey a caution against too extensive generalization 

 of the phj'siographical conditions hinted at by fossil remains of 

 aquatic types. 



The why and wherefore of such combinations of species are 

 not entirely apparent. They ma}^ have resulted (1) from the 

 intrusion of the salt-water types into the fresh waters, or (2) 

 from the detention and survival of the salt-water fishes in inlets 

 of the sea that have become isolated and gradually become fresh- 

 water lakes. On the whole, it appears more probable that the 

 latter is the case. By the uplift of the land, an inlet of the 

 Pacific Ocean might have been shut off from communication from 



' Nature, xiii. p. 107, 1875. 2 Nature, xiii. p. 1G7, 1875. 




180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1877. 



the ocean, and the character of the water would be soon changed 

 by the copious showers of that tropical country'. The shark, saw- 

 fish, megalops, and other species mostly found in the sea, had, 

 however, time to accommodate themselves to the altered condi- 

 tions, and in this connection it must be remembered too, that 

 most of the types in question are known to voluntaril}'^ ascend 

 high up streams and even into fresh water. The numerous rapids 

 of the river discharging from the lake discourage, however, the 

 idea that the species enumerated have voluntarily ascended that 

 river and entered the lake. The concurrence of the fresh-water 

 fishes with the others and their entrance into the lake from the 

 surrounding streams would be merely a question of time. 



With these remarks we close, and preface the descriptive por- 

 tion with a list of the species enumerated. 



GOUIID^. 



Philypnus longiceps, 



ClCIILID^E. 



Heros rostratus. 



longiraanus. 



labiatus. 



citrinellus. 



basilar is. 



Dovii. 



nicaraguensis. 



balteatus. 



centrarchus. 

 Nectroplus uicaraguensis. 



Atherinid^. 



Cbirostoma guatamalensis. 



CYPRINODONTIDyE. 



Gambusia uicaraguensis. 

 Pfficilia Dovii. 



Cl.UPEID/E. 



Opisthonema libertatis. 



EhOTlVJK. 



Megalops . 



CnAiiAciNin^. 



Chalcinopsis dentex, 

 Bramocharax Brausfordii. 



SiLURlD.K. 



Rhamdia nicaraguensis. 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



Pristid.e. 



Pristis autiquorum ? 



GALEORIIINIDiE. 



Ealamia nicaragueusis. 



GOBIIDiE. 



FMlypnus longiceps. 



Eleotris longiceps, Gtlir., Proc. Zool. Soc. London for 1864, p. 151. 



Gthr., Trans. Zool. Soc. Loudon, vol. vi. p. 440, 



1868. 

 Two specimens were obtained, agreeing well with Giintlier's 

 description of the species in question. 



CICHLID-ffi. 



Heros rostratus. 



The form is that of the Helleri type. The back declines rather 

 rapidly' to the tail, and in front of the dorsal is slightly gibbous. 



The height is contained two and one-third times in the extra- 

 caudal length. The caudal peduncle is one-third higher at its base 

 than long. Its greatest height bears to its length the ratio of 10 

 to ?. The head is acutely pointed, and the snout above, recti- 

 linear. The length of the snout exceeds half that of the head. 

 The inter-orbital area is nearly flat. The preoperculum and 

 cheeks are very oblique. The buccal scales are in six rows. The 

 jaws are normally developed. The superior maxillary terminates 

 at a vertical a little nearer the ej'e than the snout, and the articu- 

 lation of the lower jaw is also notably in advance of the eye. 

 The lips are moderately developed, and the lower ones separated 

 by a broad frainum at the middle. 



The dorsal fin is well developed ; the anterior spines are rapidly- 

 graduated, the rest subequal ; the soft rays, when bent back, 

 extend a little beyond the basal third of tlie caudal. The anal 

 fin commences under about the twelfth dorsal spine ; its first 

 four spines rapidly increase, and its last two moderately; the 

 soft part, when bent back, extends a little beyond the basal foui'tii 

 of the caudal. The caudal enters four and one-third times in the 

 extreme length, and is subtruucate, but slightly emarginated in 

 the middle. The pectoral fins are well developed, and extentl 

 about as far backwards as the first anal rays. The ventral fins 

 have filamentary ra3-s which extend backward to the last anal 

 spine. 




182 PROOEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF , [18TT. 



Tlie color is a bronzed olive indistinctlj'' crossed, at least in the 

 young, by two bands, one under the dorsal, and the other below its 

 last rays ; later, these fade out more or less, leaving, of the first, 

 only a rather indistinct dorsal saddle under the median spines, 

 and of the second, a distinct black spot below the latei'al line. 

 A black spot also exists at the base of the caudal fin, mostly 

 above the lateral line. The breast and lower surface of the head 

 bronzed or blackish towards maturity. 



The dorsal at its spinous part is dusky and immaculate, but in 

 its soft portion diversified by dusky areas in three or five rows, 

 separated b}' narrow light interspaces. The anal is more nearly 

 uniform, but still has a few light spots. The caudal is reticulated 

 by bright interspaces on a dusky ground. The pectorals are 

 spotless. The ventrals dusky. 



Tliis species is quite characteristic in the extension of the 

 rostrum, and is thus readily distinguished from at least any of the 

 Xicai'aguan species, if not from any 3et made known. It is 

 apparently most nearly related to the Heros affinis (Giinther), of 

 Lake Peter. Eleven specimens of various sizes were obtained by 

 Dr. Bransford. 



Heros longimanus. 



Heros longimanus, Gthr., Trans. Zool. Soc. London, v. VI. p. 453, 

 pi 73, fig. 2, 1868. 



But one half-grown specimen was obtained by Dr. Bransford. 



Heros labiatus. 



Heros lahiatus. Gthr., Proc. Zool. Soc. London, for 18G4, p. 27, pi. 4, 



fig. 1, 1864. 

 Heros lahiatus, Gthr., Trans. Zool. Soc. London, v. VL p. 456, 1868. 



Heros citrinellus. 



Heros citrinellus, Gthr., Proc. Zool. Soc. London, for 1864, p. lo3, 1864. 

 Heros citrinellus, Gthr., Trans. Zool. Soc. London, v. VL p. 4o9, pi. 

 71, fig. 1, 1868. 



Four specimens were obtained, wliicli apparently belong to this 

 species, although none exactly agree with the description or figure 

 published by Dr. Giinther. 



Heros basilaris. 



The form is that of the Marrjaritifer and Citrinellus tj'pe. The 

 back declines moderately to the tail, and is regularly decurved in 

 front of the dorsal fin ; tiie height is contained two and one-third 

 times in the extra-caudal length ; the caudal peduncle is not 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



much higher at its base than long, and it decreases ver^'^ gradually 

 to the fin ; the head is normal, and the snout above convex and 

 blunt in front, the length of the snout is little more than a third 

 the length of the head ; the interorbital area is slightly raised ; 

 the preoperculum is nearly vertical; the buccal scales are in four 

 rows ; the jaws are norraall}^ developed ; the supra-maxillary ter- 

 minates at a vertical, very little in advance of the orbit ; the lips 

 are moderately developed, and are free all around ; the teeth of 

 the outer row are of rather large size; the dorsal fin is mode- 

 rately developed ; the anterior spines are normally graduated, 

 the rest subeqnal ; the soft rays when bent back extend nearly to 

 the terminal third of the caudal ; the anal fin commences under 

 the thirteenth dorsal spine, its first three spines are rapidly, and 

 the succeeding moderately, graduated ; the largest soft rays, when 

 bent back, reach the second third of the caudal ; the caudal 

 enters four and a third or four and a half times in the extreme 

 length, and its margin is convex-truncate ; the pectoral fin extends 

 to the vertical of the third and the ventral fin to that of the fourth 

 or fifth anal spine. 



0. xvi. 12. A. vii. 8. 



The color is bronzed-olive, with (in the young, at least) seven 

 bands; in the fourth band is developed a distinct blackish spot 

 just under the lateral line, and on the base of the caudal fin, above 

 the lateral line, is another, but smaller, blackish spot; the dorsal 

 and anal fins are dusk}', but the soft parts much darker at the base 

 than on the rest of their fins and surface; the caudal fin is also 

 much darker at its basal third than behind ; the pectoral and ven- 

 tral fins are dusky and uniform, save that the filamentary rays of 

 the ventrals are darker. 



The s^iecies is quite nearly related to a number of species, and, 

 among the Nicaraguan ones, next to the Heros longimanus^ but its 

 combination of characters sufficiently differentiates it as a distinct 

 species from any previously well characterized. It is one of the 

 most abundant species of Lake Nicaragua. 



Heros dovii. 



Ileros dovii, Gthr., Proc. Zool. Soc. London, for 1864, p. 154, 1864. 

 Heros dovii, Gthr., Traus. Zool. Soc. London, v. VI., p. 461, pi. 73, fig. 

 4, 1868. 



No specimens were obtained by Dr. Bransford. 




18^ PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



Heros nicaraguensis. 



Jleros nicaraguensis, Gtlir., Proc. Zool. Soc. London, for 1864, p. 153, 



1861. 

 Heros nicaraguensis, Gthr., Trans. Zool. Soc. London, v. VI., p. 465, 

 pi. 77, fig. 1, 1868. 

 Xo specimens are in Dr. Bransford's collection. 



Heros balteatus. 



The form is that of the Godmanni type; the back declines 

 rather slowly, and in a gentle curve to the tail, and in front of the 

 dorsal is boldly decurved to the forehead ; the heioht is contained 

 rather more than two and a Iialf times in the extra-caudal length; 

 tlie 'caudal peduncle is little higher than long, and gradually dimin- 

 ishes to the tail ; the head is abbreviated and the snout convex 

 above and almost sub-truncated in front ; the length of the snout 

 enters two and a half times in that of the head; the inter-orbital 

 area is flat ; the preoperculum mostly vertical, but convexl}' pro- 

 tuberant at the angle; the buccal scales are in five rows; the jaws 

 are normally developed ; the supra-maxillar}' terminates at a ver- 

 tical in front of the orbit ; the lower lip is indicated by an obso- 

 lete fold wanting towards the symphysis ; the teeth in the outer 

 row are moderately enlarged ; the dorsal fin is slightly developed ; 

 the anterior spines are rather slowly graduated, and tlie rest sub- 

 equal ; the longest soft rays, when bent back, extend to the ter- 

 minal half of the caudal ; the anal fin commences under about 

 the fourteenth dorsal spine; the spines at first rapidly and then 

 gradually increase in length backwards; the longest soft rays, 

 -when bent back, reach the second third of the caudal fin ; the 

 caudal fin enters four and a third times in the extreme length, and 

 is slightly emarginated; the pectoral fins reach Ixickn-ards to the 

 vei-tical of the third anal spine, and the filamentary rays of the 

 ventral fins extend to the fourth or fifth anal spine. 



D. xviii. 10. A. vii. 7. 



Tlie color (in spirits) is yellowish-orange ; a rather broad black 

 band extends from the post-ocular region across the operculum 

 and shoulder, along the flanks to the spot at the base of the caudal 

 fin. The l)ack in front of the dorsal has also a blackish spot, and 

 under the base of the dorsal fin are more or less defined dark areas 

 or spots; the dorsal fin is dusky and immaculate, as are also the 

 anal and caudal ; the pectoral fins are yellowish at the base and 

 dusky beyond, and the ventral have the outer rays dusky (but 




ISTV.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 185 



with the edge of the externnl lighter) and the inner ^-ellowish ; the 

 branchiostegal membrane below is orange or yellowish, and the 

 breast slate-colored. 



This is also an abundant and characteristic species. Of the 

 previously known Nicaraguan species it seems to most resemble 

 the Heros nicaraguensis, but is so decided!}' distinct as to need no 

 special comparison. 



Heros centrarchus. 



The form is of the Midtispinosiis type ; the parts above and 

 below the longitudinal axis are nearl}^ equally balanced ; tlie back 

 declines moderately in a curve towards the tail and in front of the 

 dorsal is slightly, but regularly decurv'ed towards the foi'chead ; 

 the height is contained twice in the extra-caudal length ; the caudal 

 peduncle is ver}' short, its height at the root being twice as great 

 as it is long, and it comparatively rapidly narrows to tlie caudal ; 

 the head has the forehead slightly gibbous, and the snout is recti- 

 linear and pointed in front; the length of the snout is little more 

 than a fourth of that of the head ; the interorbital area is slightly 

 raided ; the preoperculum is nearly vertical and at the angle boldly 

 rounded ; the buccal scales are in five rows ; the jaws are normally 

 developed ; the supraraaxillary terminates at a vertical about a 

 pupil's length in advance of the eye; the lips are moderately de- 

 veloped and the lower is interrupted in front ; the teeth of the 

 outer row are rather strong; the dorsal fin is moderately deve- 

 loped; the dorsal spines increase in a regular, bold curve from 

 the first to the sixth, 'and the following are nearly equal ; tiie 

 longest raj'S bent backwards extend for the lengtli of the basal 

 half of the caudal; the anal fin is very long and commences under 

 the ninth dorsal spine; the spinous portion is not much less than 

 three times longer than the soft ; the first three spines are rapidly 

 graduated and the following ones nearl}' equal ; the longest soft 

 rays reach backward to the terminal half of the caudal; the caudal 

 fin forms a quarter of the extreme length, its angles are round and 

 the posterior margin slightly emarginated ; the pectoral fin ex- 

 tends backwards nearl}' to tlie vertical of the fifth or sixth anal 

 spine ; the ventral fins also reach to nearlj' the same point. 



1). xvi. -I- 8 ; A. X. 4- 9. 



The color is bronze-olive, with seven indistinct cross-bands ; at 

 the base of the tail is a faint spot chiefly above the lateral line ; 

 the fins are dusky and emaculate. 

 13 




186 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1871. 



The species is related to the Heros multispinosus, but is dis- 

 tinguislied sufliciently b\' the characters specified in the descrip- 

 tion. The specimen preserved at least is entirely destitute of 

 the distinct longitudinal band which characterizes the H. mulli- 

 spinosus, and is also distinguished b}- a slight gibbosity above the 

 orbit which contrasts with the straight profile of the older species. 



But one specimen was procured. Both in ph^-siognomy and in 

 the number of the anal spines it resembles the genus Centrarchus 

 of Xorth America, and, hence, the name is very appropriate, inas- 

 much as it serves to recall this resemblance as well as to indicate 

 the great number of spines. The group of which it is a represen- 

 tative may receive the subgeneric name of Archocentrus. 



Neetroplus nicaragaensis. 



The form is almost entirel}^ that o^ Neetroplus nematopus ; the 

 back declines equallj- slowly backwards, but in front of the dorsal 

 falls in a more regular convex line to the forehead ; the height 

 equals two-fifths of the extra-caudal length ; the caudal peduncle 

 is slender, and its length equals the height; the head is short, and 

 the snout convex forwards and subtruncated in front ; the length 

 (or depth) of the snout equals nearly half that of the head; the 

 interorbital area is convex; the preoperculum moderately oblique; 

 the supra-maxillai'ies terminate at a vertical about a pupil's length 

 in advance of the orbits ; the lips are moderatelj' developed, the 

 lower interrupted \>y a broad isthmus in front ; the dorsal spines 

 increase in a bold curve from the first to the fifth and the rest are 

 subequal ; the soft rays, when bent back, reach nearly to the ter- 

 minal half of the caudal ; the anal fin commences about under the 

 fourteenth dorsal spine ; the first three spines rapidly increase, 

 the succeeding slower ; the longest rays reach to the second third 

 of the caudal fin ; the caudal fin forms about a fourth of the ex- 

 treme length and its posterior margin is truncated ; the pectoral 

 fin extends to about a vertical with the anus ; the ventral fin to 

 about the third or fourth anal spine, the filament of the external 

 ray being moderately produced. 



I), xviii. -f- 11 ; A. vii. -f V. 



The color is olive-brown, and almost uniform. The fins are 

 also uniform save that, perhaps, the soft portion of the dorsal 

 and anal are darker at the base. 



The si)ecies is very closely related to the type and hitherto only 

 known species of the genus Neetroplus {X. nematopus), but is 




ISVY.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 187 



distinguished by the simple convex forehead, and the more trun- 

 cated snout, the truncated caudal, the less elongated ventral 

 filaments, and the uniform color of the operculum. Three speci- 

 mens were obtained. 



ATHERINIDiE. 



CMrostoma guatemalensis. 



Atherinichthys guatemalensis, Gtlir.,Proc. Zool. Soc. Loudon, for 1864, 



p. 151, 1864. 

 Gthr., Trans. Zool. Soc. London, v. VI., 

 p. 443, 1868. 



Nine specimens were obtained which doubtless belong to this 

 species, although they do not entirely agi-ee with the description, 

 which, however, is too brief. 



CYPRINODONTIDiE. 

 Gambnsia nicaraguensis. 



Gambusia nicaraguensis, Gthr., Cat. Fishes B. M., v. VI., p. 336, 1866. 

 Gthr., Trans. Zool. Soc. Loudon, v. VI., p. 

 483, pi. 82, fig. 3 (fern.), 1868. 



Known onlj' through the description and figure published by 

 Dr. Giinther. 



Poecilia Dovii. 



Verified Synonymy. 



Pcecilia Dovii, Gthr., Cat. Fishes B. M., v. VI., p. 344, 1866. 



Possible Synonymy. 

 Gambusia plumbea, Troschel, Reise Mex. von Miiller, v. III., p. 106. 

 Five specimens were obtained. 



CLUPEIDiE. 



Opisthomena libertatis. 



Meletta libertatis, Gthr., Proc. Zool. Soc. London, for 1866, p. 603, 1867. 

 Clupea libertatis, Gthr., Cat. Fishes B. M., v. VII. p. 433, 1868. 



Gthr., Trans. Zool. Soc. London, v. VI., p. 487, 1868. 

 Two small specimens were obtained. 



ELOPID.aJ. 



Megalops . 



The Megalops is a most beautiful fish, with olive-green back, and 

 sides frosted with silver. The specimen, of which only two scales 

 were preserved, sprang upon the deck of the river steamer while 

 going down the Toro Rapids — the first set after leaving the lake. 




188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18Tt. 



While here in 18'73,one that weighed 62 lbs. sprang into our boat. 

 In March, 1873, while encamped at the head of the Toro Rapids, 

 every evening, just before sunset, one of these magnificent fish 

 came close under the grassy bank to play in the deep swift cur- 

 rent. It would make its appearance, and, turning on its side, 

 slowly sink and rise again. One evening I stood in wait with a 

 harpoon, the blade of which, about eight inches long, was armed 

 with four or five barbs, about an inch in length. On the fish's 

 approach the harjDoon was hurled and buried six inches in the 

 flesh behind its shoulder. The terrified animal rushed down 

 stream in a style that made our hands burn as the long line spun 

 through. Three men were required to hold it, but in five minutes 

 it was apparently' exhausted and allowed itself to be hauled up 

 near the bank. Two Indians were sent out in a canoe to land it, 

 but when touched, it gave a convulsive spring, tearing awa}' and 

 leaving chunks of flesh on each barb. The flesh of this fish is rather 

 coarse, but much eaten b}' the natives. (Bransford.) 



CHARAClNIDiE. 

 Chalcinopis dentez, 



Brycoii dentex, Gthr., Proc. Zool. Soc. London, for 18G0, p. 240. 

 Chalctnopsis dentex, Gthr., Cat. Fishes B. M., v. V. p. 337, 1864. 

 Gthr. Trans. Zool. Soc. London, v. VI. p. 478, pi. 82, f. 2, 1864. 



The height of the body is contained three and one-third times 

 in the total length without the caudal; the length of the head is 

 a little less than four times ; the maxillary extends to a vertical 

 with the front of the pupil of the eye ; the snout is about as long 

 as the eye ; the interorbital space is convex, its width is nearly 

 half as great again as the length of the snout ; the dorsal fin has 

 its origin nearer the base of the caudal than the extremity of the 

 snout, and its posterior is above the anal ; the free portion of the 

 tail is considerably longer than high; the caudal fin is deeply 

 forked ; the pectoral fin extends nearly as far backwards as the 

 base of the ventrals. The color is olive-brownish on the back, 

 and silver}' on the flanks and abdomen ; the scapular arch is 

 bordered with blackish ; the dorsal fin is dusky ; the anal fin 

 forwards is also dusky towards the free margins. 



Two specimens were collected, which, as will be seen from the 

 above description, agree essentially with Chalcinopais dentex^ of 

 Giintlier; but one of them is distinguished by a remarkable devi- 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 189 



ation from the type in the development of the preopercular and 

 buccal bones of one of the sides. 



On the right side, the preopercular bone extends backwards 

 over the interoperculum, and has an oblique posterior margin; 

 the enlarged inferior, or buccal, suborbital bone is more than 

 twice as long as high, and its posterior margin is oblique and 

 parallel with that of the preoperculum ; the post-orbitals are well 

 developed and nearl}' contiguous. On the left side, tlie homolo- 

 gous bones present essentially the characteristics attributed to 

 them in the figure published by Giinther. 



Genus BRAMOCHARAX. 



Body elongated, compressed — fusiform, and -witli tlie belly, in 

 front of the ventrals, rounded. Scales of moderate size, with 

 entire margins, but very distinct radiating striae on their exposed 

 surfaces; lateral line moderately decurved and comi)lete ; head 

 moderate, with a pointed slender snout and slightly incurved 

 pi'ofile ; sub-orbital bones well developed, and with the buccal 

 and combined post-ocular ones subequal and enlarged ; nostrils 

 close together and separated only by membranous partition ; 

 mouth with the cleft moderately oblique and deep, extended at 

 least below the anterior borders of the eye ; teetli uni-serial on 

 the jaws; those in intermaxillar}-, as well as dentary, being 

 compressed and conical ; those of the former moderate, and those 

 of the latter enlarged, especiall_y on each side of the s^ymphysis ; 

 teeth of supra-raaxillarj' extending along almost its entire edge, 

 and small, compressed, and muticuspid or denticulate ; branchial 

 apertures ample, the branchioslegal membrane being deeply cleft 

 and free from the isthmus ; dorsal fin short and sub-median, being 

 above the space between the ventrals and anal ; anal fin mode- 

 ratel}'' long, and restricted to the posterior half of the fish's length; 

 pectorals moderate ; ventrals abdominal, and inserted at nearl}^ a 

 head's length behind the head. 



The genus thus defined, is, in brief, characterized by the phy- 

 siognoni}'^ of an Asfyanax or bream, combined with characteristics 

 of the genus Cynopotamus, and techuicalh', at least, it approaches 

 nearest to the last-named group. Its distinctive features are 

 found in the association of characters enumerated, especially the 

 form, size of scale, dentition, moderatel}' elongated anal, and 

 position of the ventrals. 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



Bramocharax Bransfordii, Gill. 



D. 11, A. 2 + 26, P. 16, Y. 1 + 8. 



The height is contained about two and three-quarters times in 

 the length, exclusive of the caudal. 



The head enters three and two-thirds times in the same length. 

 The eye is large, its diameter equalling a quarter of the head's 

 length. The snout is somewhat longer than the e3'e, is attenuated, 

 and projects slightly beyond the lower jaw. The superior maxil- 

 lary bones are much decurved, and extend somewhat behind the 

 centre of the eye. 



SILURIDiE. 

 Bhamdia nicaragnensis. 



Pimelodus nicaraguensis, Gthr., Cat. Fishes B. Museum, v. V., p. 125, 

 1864. 



No specimens were secured b}' Dr. Bransford. 



PRISTID.aj. 



Fristis antiquorum. 



A saw of the species of Prislis inhabiting Lake Nicaragua has 

 been sent to the Smithsonian Institution by Dr. Flint, of Granada. 

 It essentially agrees with those of the Pristis antiquorum in the 

 collection of the Institution, although quite well marked indi- 

 viduall3% The lake-dweller may still prove to be a form differ- 

 entiated specifically from its marine congener ; there is, however, 

 no sufficient reason for its determination from the saw. 



GALIOSHINID.S. 



Eulamia nicaraguensis. 



The snout is short and obtusely rounded ; the distance between 



the mouth and the extremity of the snout is considerabl}' less 



than (about four-fifths of) the interval between the inner angles 



of the nostrils; no labial fold is superadded to the groove at the 



angle of the mouth; the teeth are rather larger and less numer- 



25 12-1-1-1-12 

 ous than usual, e.g.. — = ~—L. — T — "i • the upper of these are 

 '25 12-1-1 -f- 12 ^ 



nearly regularly triangular, scarcely notched on the posterior 



margin, and with both margins distinctly serrated; those in the 



lower have a broad two-rooted bnse, but narrow cusps which are 



ver}' finely serrated on tiie margins; the first dorsal commences 



just behind the vertical from the inner axil of the pectoral fin, 




ISTT.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 191 



and its vertical height about equals the snout at the line of the 

 nostrils, and is considerably higher than long at its base ; the sec- 

 ond dorsal is somewhat larger than the anal, its base is about 

 two-fifths as long as that of the first dorsal, while its height is 

 about a third of that of the first ; the pectoral fins are moderately 

 developed, the greatest extent being considerabl}'^ less than twice 

 the height of the dorsal. 



The shark of Lake Nicaragua cannot be identified with an}- of 

 the previously-described forms, altiiough closeh' related to Eu- 

 lamia Milhe.rti and the Ivindred species. The specimen described, 

 when freshly caught, measured 6 feet 4 inches in length. The 

 skin and jaws were preserved. Althougli, as indicated in tlie in- 

 troductor}^ remarks, it has long been known that a shark was an 

 inhabitant of the lake, the relations of tlie species have been pre- 

 viously unknown, and the spoils obtained by Dr. Bransford are 

 the first tiiat have been subjected to scientific examination. 

 , Larger specimens than that obtained might have been procured, 

 but Dr. Bransford took the first caught. There are numerous 

 well-authenticated cases of people having been killed b}^ these 

 sharks, and the natives are ver}- careful to keep out of their way. 

 Some six months before Dr. Bransford's arrival a man was bitten 

 by one near the place where this specimen was taken. A great 

 portion of one thigh and buttock was cut awa^-, and he died 

 from the effects. Repeated tales are told of similar incidents. 

 Squier says: "Sharks abound in the lake. They are called 

 tigrones from their rapacity. Listances are known of their 

 having attacked and killed batliers within a stone's throw of the 

 beach at Granada." ' They are found tliroughout the length of 

 the river San Juan, of sizes varj'ing from a foot to over six feet 

 in length. Sivers thinks that they come up tlie river from the 

 sea. 



' Squier's Nicaragua, vol. i. p. 196. 




192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [ISIT. 



ON LAVENDTILITE FROM CHILI, S. A. 

 BY E. GOLDSMITH. 



In some of the huge Llocks of cobalt ore from Chili, which were 

 on exhibition in Fairmount Park last year, blue irregular veins of 

 a mineral were observed ; this blue mineral was supposed to be 

 the Laveudulan of Breithaupt. 



The Laveudulan was first found at Annaberg, Saxony, but only 

 in very small quantities, insufficient for the making of a quantita- 

 tive anal3-sis. Prof. Plattner as well as Mr. Lindacker — the latter 

 found the second locality somewhere in the Austrian Empire — 

 agree that it is composed of the oxides of arsenic, copper, cobalt, 

 nickel, and water. 



I found in the Lavendulite from Chili the same elements, besides 

 some impurities, as lime, oxide of iron, and insoluble matter which 

 "were impossible to separate mechanically. 



It occurs in a gray rough rock which seems to be Trachyte, and 

 it is associated with Erythrite, the latter sometimes finel}' crystal- 

 lized. Although the lavender blue mineral seems to be, in some 

 specimens, the most conspicuous, it is, nevertheless, on close exa- 

 miuatiou found to be intimately mingled with the gray granules 

 of Tracliyte in which it is found. This circumstance makes it 

 very tedious and difficult to separate the pure substance for ana- 

 l3'sis. The best or purest which I could obtain was but T7.5S per 

 cent. 



I noticed with the lens that the substance is an aggregation of 

 ver}' minute crystals, the length being in some of the thin veins 

 equal to the thickness of the vein. Its hardness I could not de- 

 termine, because the fragments separated from tlie rock were too 

 small for observation. The specific gravity I did not take on 

 account of the impurities present. Prof. Breithaupt found for 

 the Laveudulan from Annaberg: H=2.5 — 3. and S. G. = 3.014. 



Color lavender-blue; the powder produced is paler. 



The lustre is slightly' resinous, almost dull; its fracture is in- 

 determinable in the small fragments I possessed. If a fragment 

 is held in the flame of the Bunsen burner, it fuses readily, coloring 

 the flame green and clianging the blue color of the mineral to 

 black. 



Heated in the closed tube it affords water. 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF THILADELPHIA. 193 



On charcoal with carbonate of soda it gives copper and a strong 

 alliaceons odor indicating arsenic. 



With l)orax in 0. F. a blue glass is obtained. 

 In Avater it seems to be insoluble. 



Hydrochloric acid dissolves it easily- if heated, and affords a 

 green solution. 



The following is the quantitative result of an examination of 

 all the elements: — 



Is = 36.38 per cent. 

 Cn = 31.11 " 

 Co = 1.95 " 

 Ki = 1.05 " 

 fi = 7.09 " 

 ¥ = 6.38 

 Ca = 3.23 

 Insol. = 11,61 " 



98.80 " 

 On subtracting the impurities from the sum found, there re- 

 mained 77.58 per cent.; this is considered the quantit}' of pure 

 substance contained in the mixture, which, as remarked before, 

 could not be had any lietter. If we resolve the remainder to a 

 hundred, the numbers will then stand thus: — 



Xs ^ 46.89 per cent, contains 16.30 of oxygen. 



1 



= 9.08 



or, adopting for it 5 : 3 : 3, it will afford the formula : — 

 'As (Cu,Co,Ni)'-f- 113. 



This formula would require these values: — 

 'As = 44.04 per cent. 



Assuming only 



Cu =: 45.61 per cent, 

 li = 10.30 



The respective equivalents of the oxides of cobalt and nickel 

 being lower than the equivalents of the oxide of copper, in the 

 last theoretical quantities, the Cu is necessarily greater. The 

 specimens for analysis were furnished by the curators of the 

 Academ}-. 




194 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1877. 



May 1. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Fort3'-one members present. 



A paper entitled " Notes on the Xatural Historj^ of Fort Ma- 

 con, N. C, and Yicinit^', No. 3," by Dr. H. C. Yarrow, was 

 presented for publication. 



May 8. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Thirty-seven members present. 



A paper entitled "On the Brain of Chimsera Monstrosa," b^-- 

 Burt G. Wilder, was presented for publication. 



On the Placenta of a Monkey.— Y)v. H. C. Chapman remarked 

 that as it is comparatively rare for monkeys to breed in contine- 

 ment, and as the opportunity' does not often present itself of ex- 

 amining the placenta in these animals, a few remarks on the 

 character of that structure in the Macacus nemedrinns might not 

 be considered superfluous. The young monke}', which was born 

 dead in the Zoological Garden, measured 13 inches from snout to tip 

 of tail. As in the case of almost all the old world monkeys or Catar- 

 rhines, there were two placentas, which measured in their largest 

 diameters 3 and 3^ inches respectively, and were discoid in shape. 

 The umbilical cord was 7| inches in length, and contained one 

 umbilical vein, and two umbilical arteries. Curiously enough in 

 the South American monkeys, while there are two uml)ilical veins, 

 as well as two arteries in tlie cord, the placenta is single. 



On the Earthy Oxidesof Samarskite.—VvoiJ .Ij\\\im£.^c-e. Smith 

 made some remarks on the anomalous properties of the earthy 

 oxides of samarskite belonging to that class of the earths which 

 are precipitated by a cold concentrated solution of sulphate potash, 

 or sulphate of soda. He gave his reasons for believing that these 

 oxides contain but little if any cerium oxide, and that there is a 

 strong probability of tlie bulk of it being a new earth. He ex- 

 pressed these views with much caution, because more thorough 

 investigation on larger quantities might possibly prove them to 

 be inaccurate. 



On MarhJeized Iron. — Mr. Wm. II. Dougherty reported the 

 results of his examination of a new article of enamelled iron-ware 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 195 



called "Marbleized Iron," which had recentl}' been extensively^ 

 sold in this city for cooking and other domestic purposes. 



Some of this ware having been introduced into his own house- 

 hold, and hearing reports of the enamel having much lead and arse- 

 nic in its composition, he had made the following experiments: — 



A pint of good ordinary so-called " White Wine" A-inegar was 

 poured into a new dish of this ware, and slowly' evaporated nearly 

 to drj-ness — distilled water was then added, and treated with 

 hA'dro-sulpliuric acid — the resulting precipitate of sulphide of lead 

 was then dissolved in nitric acid, and reprecii)itated with sulphuric 

 acid in presence of alcohol as sulphate of lead, and weighed 183 

 milligrammes, or oA'er 2| grains, which result was further con- 

 tirmed by reducing it to metallic lead with the blowpipe. 



This result would indicate that the vinegar had dissolved out 

 of the enamel enough lead to make about three grains of acetate 

 of lead. 



Into another dish of the same ware was put an ounce of citric 

 acid, dissolved in a pint of distilled water, and boiled for some 

 time, and then treated precisel}' as the vinegar in tlie first experi- 

 ment, resulting in a precipitate of sulphate of lead, weighing some- 

 what less tiian that ol)tained by the vinegar, but showing that the 

 citric acid had dissolved out a corresponding amount of lead from 

 the enamel, as in tlie first experiment. 



These two acids, acetic and citric, were used preferably as those 

 most likel}' to come in contact with this ware in domestic uses — the 

 first in vinegar, and the other (citric acid) occurring not only in 

 the orange family, but being also present in the free state in 

 gooseberries, currants, cherries, and in the potato and onion. 



A can of tomatoes in an acid condition was digested in another 

 dish of this ware and filtered — the filtrate treated as in the former 

 experiments showed slight but positive evidences of the presence 

 of lead. 



Arsenic is said to be present in this enamel, but none had been 

 found after repeated trials, lioth by wet and dry tests. 



The stronger acids and caustic alkalies decompose this enamel. 

 A portion of which, detached with considerable trouble, and fused 

 witli carbonate of soda in the usual wa}', yielded about as 

 follows : — 



Oxide of lead 12 per cent. 



Silica 47 « u 



Alumina"] 

 Iron I 



Lime j- ' . , 41 " " 



Potash 

 Soda J 



100 " " 




196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF flSIT. 



May 15. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Tvvent^'-seven members present. 



Remarks on Gregarines. — Prof. Leidy remarked that his recent 

 study of the Rhizopods had led him once more to make an exam- 

 ination of some of tlie Gregarines, regarded as pertaining to a 

 nearly related class. 



Tiie Gregarines are especiall}^ parasites of the Articulata, most 

 of tlie known forms having been found in insects, crustaceans, 

 myriapods, and annelides. Most of those observed by himself 

 were found in vegetable and dirt feeders. The}- frequently occupy 

 the alimentar}- canal, but in some animals occupy other organs or 

 the perivisceral cavity. With few exceptions, the Gregarines at 

 maturity consist of a comparative!}- large nucleated cell, which 

 for convenience vc\a.y be named the bod}- cell, continuous at one 

 pole with a small non-nucleated cell, which in like manner may 

 be viewed as the head cell. Both cells are filled with fine globu- 

 lar granules, which in mass give the Gregarines a milk-wliite ap- 

 pearance. S^o mouth or trace of intestinal organs exists. The 

 outer wall of the cells is a thick, structureless, contractile endo- 

 sarc ; and within this, in the body cell, tliere is often perceptible, 

 as in Gregnrina larvata of our common Juhis, a well-marked 

 longitudinall}^ striated and appai'ently muscular layer. 



The motions of the Gregarines consist of a kind of peristaltic 

 action of the wall of the body cell proceeding from one to the 

 other end. 



In the Gregarines, so common in several species of our earth- 

 worms, the head cell is absent, and therefore is very properly 

 viewed as of a diflTerent genus from the more ordinary Gregarina 

 under the name of ^fonoci/.^ris. The 3Ionocyslis agilifi is sausage- 

 like in form, and is usually from ^ to | of a millimetre in length. 

 In movement its contractions may commence at one end and 

 proceed towards the opposite end, or it may commenco at both 

 ends proceeding towards the middle, or may commence in the 

 latter position and proceed towards the ends. 



From the researches of Lieberkiihn and others, it appears that 

 the Gregarines of earthworms assume a globular form and become 

 encysted, and the granular contents are in a greater measure re- 

 solved into navicula-shapcd germs, whicli have been named pseudo- 

 naviculfe or navicellae or psorosperms. Lieberkiihn was led to 

 consider the aniad)oid perivisceral corpuscles of the earthworm, 

 as anifeba-like enil)ryos derived from the navicelhc, but it is very 

 doubtful whetlier there is any relationship whatever between the 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 197 



two. Both Gregarines and navicella-cysts are met with in the in- 

 testine of our common earthworm, but the cj^sts are to be found 

 most frequently and abundant!}- in the sperm vesicles. In the six 

 vesicles of an earthworm Prof. Leidv had counted 1540 mature 

 navicella-cysts, together with a number of groups of immature 

 cysts. The mature cysts, readily- visible to the naked e3-e, as 

 minute pearl3--white globules, by transmitted light have a peculiar 

 pale blue hue. They measure about j of a millimetre in diameter. 

 A cyst burst open spread its navicellre over a millimetre square, 

 and was estimated to contain about 2500. Tiiese were quite 

 uniform in size, and measured 0.0133 mm. long and 0.00G65 broad. 



E. Van Beneden has clearly traced the development of the Gre- 

 garina of the Lobster from Amoeba-like embr3'os, so that it is 

 not improbable that similar embryos may be derived from the 

 uavicellfB. 



The Gregarines are usually viewed as constituting the lowest 

 class of the Protozoa, and hence the lowest of animals. From 

 tlieir structure and mode of development. Prof. L. considered 

 them as holding a higlier rank than Khizopods, and occupying a 

 position intermediate to these and the Infusoria. 



Prof. L. further stated that in a large earthworm, Linnbriciis 

 terredriii^ from the A'ard of his residence, the posterior pair of 

 sperm vesicles alone contained upwards of a thousand navicella- 

 cysts, besides several thousand Gregarines, Monocystis agih's, ex- 

 hibiting the varieties of condition, such as have been represented 

 by Schmidt, Lieljerkiihn, and others. Many of the Gregarines 

 were invested with motionless cilia, while other activelj* contract- 

 ing individuals possessed no trace of these appendages. Some 

 of the Gregarines further exhibited transition stages towards 

 transformation into navicella-cysts. The latter ditfeied from 

 those previoush' mentioned in having but a single thin mem- 

 branous layer for their wall instead of many la3-ers. 



Prof. L. added that our earthworms, which appear to be the 

 same as the common European species, likewise a|>pear to be 

 infested with the same variety and kind of parasites. Among 

 the latter he had re2)eatediv observed the infusorian AnoplophTija 

 liimhrici, and also several different nematoids. One of these, 

 which he had found in the sperm vesicles, appeared to be nnde- 

 scril>ed. It was certainly different from the Dicelis filaria found 

 in the same organs by Dujardin. It appears near!}' related with 

 Angxiillula^ and may be regarded as such with the name o^ A.me- 

 lancholica. Its characters are as follows: Bod3^ cylindrical, 

 tapering at the ends, distinctl3' annulated. Head truncated, with 

 the vertex convex, and perforated centralh' b3' the mouth, and 

 defined from tlie sides b}' an elevated annulus. Tail conical, and 

 ending in a short, thick conical process. Mouth a minute round 

 pore, unarmed ; pharynx a siiort narrow tube ; oesophagus long, 

 cylindroid, widening posteriorl3-, and rather abruptly narrowed at 




198 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [18TY. 



the anterior extremity ; gizzard wider than the oesophagus, cylin- 

 drical and rounded at the extremities; intestine straight, intensely 

 black or blackish brown. Length from 3 to 4 millimetres; thick- 

 ness at middle 0.15 m. Length of oesophagus 0.5 m., of gizzard 

 0.125 m., thickness 0.075 m., thickness of intestine 0.05 m., length 

 of tail from anal aperture 0.175 m. Color black, with the anterior 

 end white. All females. Sometimes upwards of a dozen found 

 in the sperm vesicles of a single earthw^orm. 



May 22. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Forty-three members present. 

 The death of Matthew Baird was announced. 



On Ghilomonas. — Prof. Leidy remarked that while strolling 

 along the sandy beach at Cape May, N. J., he observed that in a 

 number of places, where the water of hollows had sunken away 

 in the sand, a tliin yellowish-green film colored the surface. A 

 portion of this green matter scraped up was put in a bottle with 

 sea water. The lieavier sand subsided, and the green matter re- 

 mained in suspension, giving the water an olive-green color, re- 

 minding one of the colored turbid liquor decanted from ajar of 

 stale preserved olives. The color was suspected to be due to the 

 presence of diatomes, but on microscopic examination it proved 

 to be caused by multitudes of a greenish Monad, probably pei*- 

 taining to the genus Cliilomonas. The minute flagellate infu- 

 sorian is discoid-oval in form, with a slight emargination laterally 

 a short distance posterior to the fore extremity. The emargi- 

 nation apparently indicates the position of the mouth, and from 

 it projected a single delicate flagellum, scarcely distinguishable. 

 At times tlie little creature assumed a more circular shape, or be- 

 came reniform. It moved activeh' forward, rolling over from one 

 side to the other, and rapidly vibrated the flagellum. Under a 

 high power the animal appeared transparent and colorless or 

 faintly bluish, with two or three large balls of a yellowish-green 

 hue, and several transparent, colorless, and well-defined globules. 

 In size the monad ranged from the ^^^g^jth to ^^Vo^'^ of an inch 

 in length. An average-sized individual measured 0.008 mm. long, 

 0.006 broad, and 0.004 thick. 



On Enstatife. — Dr. George A. Konig placed on record the oc- 

 currence of Enslatile as one of the associates of corundum in 

 Georgia, The material came to Dr. A. E. Foote from a dealer in 

 that State, with other specimens, sliowing the characteristic asso- 

 ciations of corundum, spinel, and chlorite. At first sight the 

 mineral appears like filjrolite, altering into damourite, so well 

 known from corundum localities. 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 199 



It occurs in tabular aggregations with eminent cleavage, parallel 

 to the prism of 93°, to the clinopinakoid, and decidedly, but less 

 distinct, to the base. Enstatite is Orthorhombic, according to 

 Kenngott and Descloizeaux. The specimen under examination, 

 however, is Monoclinic^ by the pronounced cleavage parallel to the 

 base ; the form is therefore closely that of pyroxene, with the ex- 

 ception that in the latter mineral the plane passes through the 

 main axis and the clinodiagonal intersects the acute angle of 

 prism (87°j, whilst in the present case this plane intersects the 

 obtuse prismatic angle (93°). This relation was noticed on a 

 number of cleavage fragments. In a plate parallel to the clino- 

 pinakoid (principal cleavage plane), no polarization takes place. 

 Owing to the fibrous structure the speaker was not able to prepare 

 an optical section parallel to the basal plane or at right angles to 

 the main axis, and the optical constants could not be ascertained. 

 Lustre vitreous on prismatic faces, pearly on the pinakoid. Color 

 slightly 3'ellowish olive-green to Colorless. Chromite in small 

 srains is noticed in the mineral. Hardness 5.5. Sp. gr. = 8.235 

 (20° C). 



B. B. Infusible. Manganese reaction with fluxes. 



Decomposes with sulphuric acid slowlj'. 



Composition: — 



100.44 

 li : gi = 1 : 1.994. RO, SiO.,. 



Fe : Mg : Si : O = 1 : 12.33 : 13.84 :"41.8. 



The empirical formula is, therefore: — 

 FeMff,, Si„ 0„. 



May 29. 

 Wm. S. Yaux, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Thirty-eight members present. 



On Painted Turtles. — Miss S. P. Monks stated that our com- 

 mon painted turtle, Chrysemijs picta^ Herm., is distinguished from 

 the western species, Chrj/xemijs oregonensis^ Harl., by its smaller 

 size and uniform yellow plastron. 



Ch.oregonensis has a dark lyriform blotch extending the length 

 of the plastron. 




200 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



About the middle of April she found, in a marsh near Cold 

 Spring. N. Y., a Ch. picta about two and a half inches long which 

 had a black mark on its plastron. The mark, each side of the 

 central line, is irregular, about a quarter of an inch wide, and be- 

 ginning at the anterior part of the anal shield extends an inch 

 and ends on the posterior portion of the pectoral shield. 



It may not be rare to find eastern turtles marked so, but she 

 had never seen one, either smaller or larger than this specimen, 

 among all the specimens she had examined. 



On Flukes infesting ^loUnsks. — Prof. Leidy remarked that our 

 common fresh-water molhisks, especiall}- the gastropods, were 

 much infested with flukes. These appear to be prevalent during 

 the latter part of the year and absent during the earlier part. 

 Drawings were exhibited of the sporoc^'sts and cercariag of two 

 species of flukes infesting Planorhis parvius. 



The species were named and described as follows : — 



MoxosTOMA (Glexocercaria) LT'CAXICA. 



Sporocysl bright orange colored, cylindroid in form, with ob- 

 tusely rounded extremities. Pharynx globular, from which is 

 suspended a long cylindrical pouch-like stomach, black in hue, 

 extending two-thirds the length of the bod}'. Body cavity dis- 

 tended with cercaritfi in various stages of development. Cercaria 

 white; with a compressed ovoid body emarginate behind; tail 

 cylindro-conical, i)ointed, as long or longer than the body, often 

 constricted so as to appear more or less moniliform. Ej-es two, 

 black; with an intermediate black pigment spot looking like a 

 third eye, and a number of smaller pigment spots scattered in the 

 vicinit}- of the eyes. No acetabulum. Pharynx globular ; intes- 

 tine bipartite. A distinct pore situated ventrally near the root of 

 the tail. 



Length of sporocysts from | to 1 mm. Length of cercariiie ^ 

 mm. 



The sporocyst is quite active, elongating and shortening; re- 

 tracting and projecting the pharynx. It also exhibits strong 

 peristaltic movements, in which the body becomes constricted 

 tigiitly just back of the pharynx or in any position beyond. The 

 contraction gradually extending backward and dividing the body 

 cavity into two compartments, the cercarii^ are suddenly slipped 

 through the constriction, one after the other from the posterior to 

 the anterior compartment. The movements of the cercaria, libe- 

 rated from the sporocyst, consist mainly in elongation and nar- 

 rowing and shortening witli widening of the body. Elongation 

 of the l)ody causes it to exceed the length of the tail. At times 

 the lateral extremities of the posterior emargination of the body 

 are prolonged into short conical appendages. 



This fluke occurs abundantly beneath the muscular tegument, 

 among the lobes of the liver, and folds of the intestine of rianorbis 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 201 



parvus. Upwards of fifty of the sporocA'sts distended with cer- 

 carise have been removed from a single Planorbis. 



DiSTOMA (GTMJfOCEPHALA) ASCOIDEA. 



Sporocyst white. Head distinct from the body, campanulate, 

 varying in the proportion of length to breadth, according to the 

 degree of contraction. Bod}" cylindroid, with a pair of lateral 

 conical appendages, beyond which it extends as a cylindro-conical 

 tail-like prolongation. Pharynx globular, encircled with six 

 equidistant organs (undetermined in character, probably teeth? 

 or perhaps ganglia). Stomach a flask-like pouch extending but 

 a short distance from the head into the body cavity, and not 

 reaching the middle of the latter even in its most shortened con- 

 dition ; bright brown in color. Body cavit}' distended with nume- 

 rous cercarije; the immature ones occupying the tail-like prolon- 

 gation. An orifice at the extremity of a blunt conical snout com- 

 municates with the body cavitj' just back of the head. Cercaria^ 

 white ; with an obcordate, or when elongated a clavate bod}', and 

 a long, narrow, cylindro-conical pointed tail. Cephalic end trian- 

 gular, and slightly constricted from the rest of the body ; posterior 

 part broadly emarginate. A ventral acetabulum near or posterior 

 to the centre of the body, and between it and the root of the tail 

 an oval pore. Eyes none. Pharynx globular ; gizzard small ; 

 divisions of the intestine extending about two-thirds the length 

 of the body. 



Length of sporoc^sts of different ages, from | to 1 mm. Length 

 of cercarise 5 to f mm. 



In motion the sporocj'sts contract the head so that it maj'beof 

 nearl}' equal length and breadth, and it may be extended so as to 

 be double the length of the breadth. The body also elongates and 

 shortens in the same manner. Cercarije were observed in several 

 instances escaping from the snout-like projection of the bodj' 

 cavity back of the head. The cercariae in movement elongate ex- 

 cessively, and the bodj- may be extended so as to be almost as 

 narrow as the root of the tail. The ventral disk is often pro- 

 truded into a conical appendage or expanded into a broad cup. 

 The tail becomes longer, narrower, and more pointed, or shorter, 

 wider, and beaded. 



This fluke occupies a similar position in the Planorbis as in the 

 former, and has been found in equal numbers, but the two species 

 have not been found associated in the same individual. The dis- 

 toma form of the ascoid fluke, encysted, was also observed in 

 Planorbis parvus, without any traces of tlie generative organs 

 being obvious. 



A free swimming cercaria, identical in character with that of the 

 ascoid fluke, has lieen observed in water, which contained many 

 individuals of Planorbis parous, and Lininsea elodes. The free 

 cercaria agrees with the description of the Cercaria minuta, 

 Nitzsch, found with various fresh-water mollusks of Europe. 

 14 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1817. 



Prof. L. further exhibited drawings of a Distoma, the Bhopalo- 

 cerca tardigrada^ Diesing, from the mi\.\\X\e of Anodon Jluiyiatiliii ; 

 a second the Heleroi>tomum echinalum, Diesing, from the ovidnct 

 of Pahidina decisa ; and a tliird from Helix arborea, X.\\\xs de- 

 scribed : — 

 Distoma APPEXDicrLATA. 



TransluL-ent wliite, band-like, widest in front and rounded at tlie 

 head, tapering behind and truncate at the end. Pliarynx and 

 ventral disk large and nearly equal and about \ mm. diameter. 

 The gizzard comj)aratively large and oval. Intestine bifurcate 

 with the branches parallel, and with an intermediate pouch-like 

 appendage extending nearly half wa}' to the position of the ventral 

 disk. A posterior opening communicates witli a pouch and a 

 water vascular system. No traces of a generative apparatus ob- 

 servable. Length 1 mm. 



Andrew C. Craig, William John Potts, John E. Cook, Chas. 

 Zentmayer, Samuel L. Fox, Shippeu Wallace, and Jos. D. 

 Schoales, M.D., were elected members. 



S. Fisher Corlies w-as elected a member of Council for the un- 

 expired term of Dr. J. G. Hunt, resigned. 



The following papers were ordered to be published: — 




1811.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



NOTES ON THE NATURAL HISTORY OF FORT MACON, N. C, AND 

 VICINITY. (No. 3.) 



BY H. C. YARROW. 



In the Proceedings of the Ac.adeni}' of Xatiiral Sciences for 

 18T1 a series of papers Avas commenced, by Dr. Elliott Coues, 

 with the above title, and it was determined to continue them from 

 time to time until the fauna and flora of the locality — so far as 

 had been observed — sliould be described, but OAving to unavoidable 

 circumstances the publication of certain of the papers has been 

 delayed until the present moment. It is now proposed to con- 

 tinue them under the joint authorship of Dr. Coues and the 

 AY r iter. 



FISHES. ■ 



It will readily be seen, ui)on a perusal of a foregoing article 

 describing the situation of Fort Macon, Beaufort harbor, and the 

 adjoining waters, that the circumstances of its position render it 

 peculiarly attractive and interesting to the student of Ichthyology, 

 afll'ording an admirable field for obtaining specimens, the follow- 

 ing list showing that one hundred and seven species of fishes have 

 been secured by Dr. Coues and the writer during the short period 

 of their residence at that point. 



In the identification of the specimens thanks are due for assist- 

 ance to Prof. S. F. Baird, Prof. Theo. Gill, Prof. F. W. Putnam, 

 and Prof. G. BroAvn Goode. The classification and names given 

 are those adopted by Prof Gill in his Catalogue of the Fishes of 

 the East Coast of North America, Smithsonian Miscellaneous 

 Collections, No. 283, 1873. Local names are given whenever 

 known, but these names are mostly those used b}' the inhabitants 

 of the region under discussion. Species marked with C. repre- 

 sent those secured by Dr. Coues, Avith Y. by Dr. YarroAv, C. and Y. 

 by both. 



Chilomycterus geometricus (Linn.), Kaup. 

 Spiny Toad-fish. Sea Porcupine. 



Tolerabl}^ common ; found in nets and taken Avith hook from 

 wharf. Size from four to six inches. Is not eaten. C. and Y. 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



Tetrodon laevigatus (Linn.), Gill. 

 Puffer. Smooth Puffer. 



Found in small streams running through salt marshes; but few 

 seen. Found in nets, and is taken with the hook. Xever eaten, 

 being considered poisonous. Size, from three to six inches. Y. 



CMlichthys turgidus (Mitch ), Gill. 

 Puffer. Balloon-fish. 



Common ; found in same localities as preceding species, and, 

 like it, is generally found in nets, but will also take the hook. 

 Not eaten. Y. 



Lactophrys trigonus (Linn.), Poey. 

 Camel-fish. Box-fish. 



Prof. Gill states that the appearance of this fish on the coast is 

 accidental. Two specimens were found on the beach at Fort 

 Macon after a southeast gale. 



Alutera cuspicauda, De Eay. 

 File-fish. 



Is probably rare, as but a single specimen was taken. C. 



Ceratacanthus auriantiacus (Mitch.), Gill. 

 File-fish. Devil-fish. 



Tolerably abundant, generally taken on outer beach in mullet 

 nets. Specimens vary in size from three to eleven inches. Is not 

 eaten. C. and Y. 



Stephanolepis setifer (Bennett), Gill. 

 File-fish. Fool-fish. Devil-fish. 



This species is more abundant than either of the two preceding 

 species, and is taken in same localities and in same manner. Is 

 not eaten. C. and Y. 



Hippocampus hudsonius, De Eay. 

 Sea-horse, Horse-fish. 



Specimens seen were very small, and the species is doubtless 

 rare, as several were presented to the writer bj^ the fishermen as 

 great curiosities. The occurrence of this fish at Fort Macon in- 

 creases its southern distribution bj^ nearly one hundred and fifty 

 miles, its limits, according to Gill, extending from Cape Cod to 

 Cape Hatteras. C. and Y. 



Syngnathns peckianus, Storer. 

 Pipe-fisli. 



Few specimens seen ; of small size ; taken in nets and by dredg- 




1817.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 205 



ing on Bird Shoal (the home of Lingula), between Fort Macon 

 and Beaufort. None seen after July. Size fx'om two to six 

 inches. C. and Y. 



Fistularia tabaccaria (Linn). 

 Trumpet fish. 

 Uncommon. One specimen was taken on the beach Sept. 25, 

 1871, 12 inches in length, another smaller one in November of the 

 same j-ear. Y. 



Plagusiaplagiusa (Linn.), Gill- 

 Flounder. 



Abundant on shoals in Beaufort Harbor. Will take the hook 

 freel3', but is generall}' captured by spearing after nigljtfall. Is 

 esteemed a valuable food fish. C. 



Achirus lineatus (Linn.), Cuv. 

 Flat-fish. Flounder. 



The same remarks will apply to this as to preceding species, 

 except regarding abundance, the fishermen considering it rare. Y. 



Fseudoplearonectes americanns (Walb.), Gill. 

 Flounder. Flat-fish. 



Rare as compared with other species of this family, few speci- 

 mens being seen, 



Lophopsetta maculata (Mitch ), Gill. 



Spotted flounder. Plaice. Fluke. 



Exceedingly abundant from early in the spring until late in the 

 fall on sand shoals and beach inside of inlet. Is taken in nets, and 

 by hook and spearing at night. It is a peculiarity of the flounders 

 to approach the shore at night and bur}' themselves in the sand, 

 leaving only the snout and eyes exposed, and the fishermen being 

 aware of this fact are enabled to capture very many in the follow- 

 ing manner. A canoe is prepared with a grating or pan in the 

 bow to contain fat pine, which, being lighted, the boat is propelled 

 slowly by a person in the stern while another, armed with a spear, 

 stands in the bow behind the fire. The craft is made to approach 

 the shore closely, and as the eyes of the fish reflect back the fire- 

 light they are easily seen, and the spear is driven into the sand a 

 few inches behind the point where the}' appear. Hundreds of 

 fishes are taken in this manner. In some instances the fisherman 

 simply walks along the shore carr3-ing in his hands a torch and 

 spear. This species is considered excellent food. Size from one 




206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [187Y- 



and a half inch to twent^'-eight and a half inches, the size of a 

 specimen obtained in Sept. 1871. C. and Y. 



Chsenopsetta occellaris (De Kay), Gill. 

 Cluenopsetta dentata (Lhiu.), Gill. 

 Flounder. Flat-fish. 



Both species tolerably abundant. C. and Y. 



Chaenopsetta oblonga (Mitch.), Gill. 

 Four-spotted Flouuder. Fluke. 



Not so abundant as preceding species, but is occasionally taken 

 of large size. From this locality it is recorded as its farthest 

 southern distribution. Y. 



TJrophycis regius (Walb.), Gill. 

 Spotted Codliug. 



Apparently rare, but one specimen having been secured. C. 



Ophidium marginatum, Mitch. 

 Cusk. 



Single specimen only observed. C. 



Zoarces anguillaris (Peck), Storer. 

 Eel-pout. 



In May, 1871, two specimens were taken by hook from the Fort 

 Macon wharf; these were small in size ; none seen thereafter. Y. 



Blennius fucorum, Cuv. and Val. 

 Sea-weed fish. 



A single specimen seen, which was found in refuse of net. Y. 



Hypleurochilus punctatus (Wood), Gill. 

 Spotted sea-weed fish. 



Tolerably abundant. C. and Y. 



Batrachus tau, Linn. 



Toad-fish. Oyster-fish. 



Exceedingly numerous in small marshy creeks, and are a great 

 nuisance to anglers. In April, 1871, a female was discovered 

 watcliing her eggs, which had been deposited in an old boot-leg ; 

 the tide had receded, leaving her in about four inches of Avater, 

 and, although attempts were made to drive her away, she pre- 

 ferred to remain, and was consequent!}- captured. Eggs Iiave 

 also been discovered in old tin cans. Tlie size of individuals 

 seen varied from four to eii^ht inches. C. and Y. 




18TT.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 207 



Astroscopus anoplus (Cuv. & Val.), Brevoort. 

 Star-gazer. 



Rare, but a single specimen taken. C. 



Prionotus punctatus (Bloch), Cuv. 



Spotted flying-fish. Sea Robin. 



Prionotus carolinus (Linn), Cuv. and VaL 

 Fh'ing-tish. 



Botli species toleral)ly al)undant during spring and summer. 

 Are talven in nets and by liook. Size six to ten inches. C. and Y. 



Tautoga onitis (Linn.), Gthr. 

 Black-fish. 



Apparently rare, as but few specimens were seen. Y. 



Choerojulis grandisquamis, Gill. 



But one specimen secured. Y. 



Xiphias gladius, Linn. 

 Sword-fish. 



Not seen, but reliable information received of its occasional 

 appearance near Cape Lookout. Y. 



Trichiurus lepturus, Linn. 

 Sword-fish. Hair-tail. 



Not abundant, the few secured being taken just inside tlie surf 

 in mullet nets. Have seen them in compan3'with Gars swimming 

 on surface of the water near the wharf feeding on small fislies, at 

 which time they would snap at a baited hook, but none were cap- 

 tured. Are called "sword fisli" b}' the fishermen, from tlieir 

 resemblance to the blade of a sword. Size averages from 30 to 

 40 inches ; one specimen of 48 inches secured. C. and Y. 



Sarda pelamys (Linn ), Cuv. 

 Bonito. 



Tolerably abundant near Shackleford Banks. Y. 



Orcynus secundi-dorsalis (Storer), Gill. 



Bouito. Albicore. Sun-fish. Horse Mackerel. 



First noticed in May, after which time it became tolerably 

 abundant. A number of specimens were taken on the beach, upon 

 wliich they had leaped from the water. Is frequently found in 

 companj^ with blue fish in September, and its appearance within 

 the inlet is regarded by the fishermen as a sure indication of rough 

 weather outside. Is not eaten. Size from four to twenty-four 

 inches. Y. 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [187t. 



Cybium maculatum (Mitch.), Cuv. 

 Spanish Mackerel. 



Very abundant in latter part of August and September, and is 

 freqnentl3' found with blue-fisli. A favorable locality is near the 

 southern point of Shackleford Banks, and it is there taken in nets 

 and by hook; a great many are also taken near Cape Lookout in 

 gill nets in September. Is highly esteemed as food, but is not 

 often eaten fresh, being generally salted. Size from ten to thirty 

 inches. C. and Y. 



Cybium regale (Bloch), Cuv. 



Spotted Mackerel. King-fish. 



Not abundant, a single specimen only being seen. Y. 



Vomer setipinnis (Mitch.), Ayres. 

 Horse-fish. Sun-fish. 



Abundant in the fall, numbers being taken on outer beach in 



company with mullet. C. and Y. 



Selene argentea, Lac. 



Moon-fish. Sun-fish. 



Same remarks apply as. to the preceding species. C. and Y. 



Argyriosus vomer, Lac. 



Moon-fish. 

 Argyriosus capillaries (Mitch.), De Kay. 



Moon-fish. 



Not so abundant as the preceding species ; are found in their 

 compau}^, and it will be seen that the fishermen of tlie locality 

 recognize no specific differences, calling them all either moon- or 

 sun-fish. First appear in Beaufort Harbor about May. C. and Y. 



Paratractus pisquetos (Cuv. and Val.), Qill. 

 Yellow Mackerel. 



A single specimen seen in September, 18T1. C. and Y. 



Carangus hippos (Linn.), Gill. 



Horse Mackerel. 

 Carangus chrysos (Mitch), Gill. 



Yellow Mackerel. 



Not abundant, a few seen in early fall, and one specimen four- 

 teen inclies long taken May, 1871. 



Blepharichthys crinitus (Akerly), Gill. 

 Moon-fish. Shoemaker. 



A few individuals taken in summer and fall ; largest seen twelve 

 inches lonsj. Y. 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209 



Trachynotus carolinns (Linn.), Gill- 

 Pompano. Sun-fish. 



Abundant in fall, and is taken in the mullet nets. Considered 



an excellent food-fish. C. and Y. 



Naucrates ductor (Linn.), Raf. 

 Pilot-fish. 

 No specimens secured, but the appearance of the fish was so 

 accurately described by several fishermen as to remove all doubts 

 regardino; its occasional occurrence. Y. 



Halatractus zonatus (Mitch.), Gill. 

 Rudder-fish. 



A single specimen observed. Y. 



Poronotus triacanthus (Peck), Gill. 



Not abundant. C. and Y. 



Cynoscion carolinenis (Cuv. and Val.), Gill. 

 Speckled Trout. 



Yery abundant from February to June, April being considered 

 the best month ; are taken at this time in nets only, as they will 

 not take the hook until September, upon their return from the 

 northward. The roe in female specimens was found to be quite 

 large in April. Size from six to thirty-six inches ; one specimen, 

 taken September, 1871, with hOok, measured twenty-four inches 

 in length and weighed three and three-quarters pounds. In 1872 

 the species first appeared January 9th, which was considered un- 

 usuall}' early. C. and Y. 



Cynoscion regalis (Bloch), Gill, 



Weak-fish. Sea Trout. Gray Trout. 



Not so abundant as preceding species, appearing with them in 

 early spring; tolerably abundant in summer; taking the hook 

 freely. Size ten to thirty inches. Y. 



Fogonias chromis, Laup. 

 Drum. 



Exceedingly abundant, resident, and is taken both within and 

 outside of inlet. This species runs in schools in early spring, but 

 in the fall is generally found alone, and will take the hook. A 

 very large specimen was taken in September, while trolling for 

 blue-fish. Is not considered a good table fish, the flesh being 

 coarse, rank, and stringy. Size ten inches to five feet. C. and Y. 




210 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1877- 



Liostomus xanthurus, Lacep. 

 Yellow tail. 



Abundant in fall. Y. 



Liostomus obliquus (Mitch.), De Kay, 

 Robin. Pin-fish. 



Yery abundant. C. and Y. 



Bairdiella punctata (Linn.), Gill. 

 Yellow-finued Perch. 



Occasionally seen. C. 



Sciaenops ocellatus (Linn.), Gill. 

 Spotted Sea Bass. 



Not abundant ; a few seen in fall. C. and Y. 



Menticirrus alburnus (Linn.), Gill. 

 Whiting. 



Menticirrus nebulosus (Mitch.), Gill. 

 King-fish. Whiting. 



Menticirrus littoralis (Holbr.), Gill. 

 Sea Mullet. 

 These species are all more or less abundant in the fall, when 

 they are found in company with the mullet on sea-beach. C. and Y. 



Micropogon undulatus (Linn.), Cuv. and Val. 

 Croaker. Crocus. 



Abundant, and can be taken from March until August. Size 

 four to eight inches. C. and Y. 

 Lagodon rhomboides (Linn), llolbr. 



Not abundant. C. and Y. 



Archosargus probatoceplialus (Walb.), Gill. 

 Sheepshead. 

 Abundant in early spring; will not take the hook until later in 

 season. In 1871 large numbers were taken in the bight of Cape 

 Lookout in nets. Size eight to twent^'-four inches. A small 

 specimen was taken January 30, 1872; an earl}^ arrival. Y. 



Stenotomus argyrops (Linn.), Gill. 

 Scup. Porgy. 



Abundant. C. and Y. 



Prof. F. W. Putnam, to whom is due the identification of the 

 specimens collected by Dr. Coues, states that in the collection he 

 found an individual resembling S. arfjyrops^ but which differed in 




18TY.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



several essential particulars, having a well-marked black blotch 

 on the tail immediatelj^ posterior to the dorsal fin, a very fine 

 margin of black on the membrane of the spine of the dorsal fin, 

 the ventrals dusk}'. D. xii. 14 ; A. iii. 13. 



Hsemulon arcuatum, Cuv. and Val. 

 Hog-fish. Grunts. 



Yeiy abundant in early spring and summer, and are generally 

 found in the marsh}'^ creeks inside of inlet. Size four to eight 

 inches. Y. 



Orthopristis fulvomaculatus (Mitch.), Gill. 

 Spots. 



Abundant ; resident in same localities as preceding species, and 

 raay be taken at all seasons of the year. Size four to eight inches. 

 The 3^oung of this species found in compau}' with \'oung mullet in 

 January-, 1S72. C. and Y. 



Ephinephelus morio (Cuv.;, Gill. 

 Grouper. 



Yery rare ; one specimen onl}- seen. Y. 



Centropristis atrarius (Linn.), Barn. 

 Sea Bass. Black Bass. 



Numerous off Shackleford Banks, in the vicinity of Cape Look- 

 out. C. and Y. 



Roccus lineatus (Bl. Schn.), Gill. 



Striped Bass. Rock. Rock-fish. 



Full-grown specimens seldom seen in the immediate vicinity of 

 Fort Macon, but the young are abundant. In the Xew River, 

 one of the affluents of Beaufort Inlet, adults are numerous, and 

 in the Neuse the}' are exceedingly' plenty. Y. 



Morone americana (Gmelin), Gill. 

 White Perch. 



No specimens seen in Beaufort Inlet, but the}' abound in the 

 New and Neuse Rivers. Y. 



Parephippus faber (Cuv.), Gill. 



Horseman. Moon-fish. Pogy. 



Not abundant ; a few specimens taken from mullet nets in 

 September, C. and Y. 



Fomatomus saltatrix (Linn.), Gill. 



Bhie-fisb. Tailor. Snapping Mackerel. 



This species appears iu Beaufort Inlet in early spring, but is 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [ISTY. 



taken only in nets. In June it commences to take the hook, but 

 the months of August and September arc the best for trolling. 

 At this time enormous numbers may be found in schools, swim- 

 ming alongside shoals in tolerably rough water. On the 23d day 

 of September, 18*71, four persons, in four hours, took by trolling 

 660 Blue-fish. During the latter part of this month, in the same 

 year, enormous scliools were noticed in and near the ship channel, 

 feeding upon the red-billed Gar, so-called, Hemiraviphus unifas- 

 ciatus^ Ranz. The stomachs of individuals taken were literally 

 crammed with these fishes. Tlie very large specimens of blue-fish 

 occasionally met with in the markets in January never enter Beau- 

 fort Inlet; they are taken on the beach from Cape Lookout north- 

 ward, the run lasting sometimes two months, occasionall}' only a 

 •week or ten days. During the last week of December, 1871, large 

 schools of young blue-fish were noticed in Beaufort Inlet swim- 

 ming from the southward, apparently- making for the sea; their 

 size about four inches. C. and Y. 



Elacate canadus (Linn.), Crill. 

 Crab-eater. 

 The fishermen speak of a fish which is supposed to be this 

 species ; none were seen. 



Leptecheneis naucrates (Linn.), QiU. 

 Sucker. 

 Uncommon; two specimens seen. C. and Y. l ' 



Echeneis remora, Linn. 

 Sucker. 

 Uncommon; a few specimens seen, which were taken by the 

 fishermen on Shackleford Banks. They stated that these fish 

 were found ? in the mouths of sharks. Size of specimen six 

 inches. Y. 



Sphyraena borealis, De Eay. 

 Barracuta. 

 Uncommon ; a few taken occasionally near Cape Lookout. 



Mugil lineatus, Mitchell. 



Striped Mullet. Mullet. 



This species is the most abundant of the locality', and affords 

 sustenance and employment to thousands of persons on the coast 

 of North Carolina. From the month of ^lay, when small-sized 

 individuals appear, fishing continues during the entire summer 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 213 



■with gill and small draw nets, and in the latter part of August, 

 as the fish commence to school preparatory to migration, the 

 regular seine fishing commences, and continues frequently' until 

 November. The schools appear to come from the northward 

 through Albemarle, Pamlico, and Cove Sounds, gradually work- 

 ing their way to the southward. Their departure through the 

 various inlets seems to depend upon a favorable state of the wind, 

 which should be from the northward, for it has been noticed fre- 

 quentl}' that when the wind hauled, the schools of mullet already 

 without the harbor have suddenh' turned, re-entering the inlet, 

 and pursued their course southward through Bogue Sound. Their 

 movements through the water are quite slow, and a person with- 

 out exertion may keep pace with them walking upon the beach. 

 The numbers taken are simply enormous, sometimes as man}' as 

 500 barrels being secured at a single haul. It was estimated by 

 competent observers that not less than 12,000 barrels of mullet 

 were captured on the coast of North Carolina Friday, September 

 22, 1871. Regarding the spawning grounds of 31. lineatus con- 

 siderable uncertainty exists. At the time of their arrival at Fort 

 Macon, in August and September, the females are enormously 

 distended with roe, some, however, being more so than others, and 

 it is supposed that the process of oviposit takes place from July 

 until December, many remaining in the sounds for the purpose. 

 Many schools of young mullet have been seen in Beaufort harbor 

 during December and January, which could have been but a few 

 weeks old. These young fishes suffer from a curious disease, 

 which is characterized by the presence of a gradually increasing 

 film upon the eyes, which finally destroys the sight, and myriads 

 perish from this cause. They also suffer from parasites, one of 

 wliich is long and tliread-like, with a stellate head, the other, 

 called by the fishermen " sea-louse ;" these parasites have never 

 been noticed by the writer upon adults. Size from one and a half 

 inches to thirty. C. and Y. 



Chirostoma notata (Mitch.), Gill. 

 Silver-sides. Smelt. 



Atherina Carolina, Val. 

 Sand-smelt. 



Rather uncommon, a few specimens only seen. C. and Y. 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [ISTT- 



Belone longirostris (Mitch.), Gill- 

 Bill-fish. Gar. 

 Is quite abundant ; appearing in Beaufort Inlet in February. 

 At this time it swims in schools, and many are taken in nets. 

 When swimming near the surface of the water it will readily take 

 the hook. Is eaten b^^ poor fishermen and negroes, and the flesh 

 is said to be good. The largest specimen seen measured twenty- 

 four inches in length. C. and Y. 



Exocoetus melanurus, Val. 

 Flyiug-fish. 



Occasionally seen, Y. 



Hemirhamphus unifasciatus, Ranzani. 

 Red-billed Gar. 



Abundant during latter part of August and entire month of 

 September. This species appears to feed along the beach in shal- 

 low water, and may be readily taken at night witli a torch and 

 scoop net. It is also found in tlie channel and along the edges of 

 shoals where blue-fish congregate, this fish devouring enormous 

 numbers. The small fry of fishes appear to be attracted by the 

 bright red caruncle on the end of the lower mandible of H. ■unifas- 

 ciatus, and, swimming near to it, lose their lives as a penalty- for 

 curiosity. C. and Y. 



Scomberesox scutellatus, Lesueur. 

 Skipper. Sea-pike. 



First observed in June, 1871, and in August of the same j'ear 

 several were taken with hook and line inside the inlet. Are not 

 eaten by the fishermen, who declare them poisonous. Size twenty- 

 four inches in length. Y. 



Cyprinodon variegatus, Lac. 

 Minuow. 



Fundulus pisculentus (Mitch.), Val. 

 ]Munuuich()!;. ^Ilnuow. 



Hydrargyra majalis (Walb), Val. 



Hydrargyra swampina, Lac. 

 iMinnow. 



These four species are exceedingl}' abundant in the marshy 



creeks, and are all called by the residents "Minnows." C. and Y. 




18V1.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 215 



Albula conorhynchus, Bloch and Schneider. 

 Lady -fish. 

 Not observed bj' Dr. Coues or the writer, but is admitted to the 

 list upon the authority' of a reliable fisherman of the locality, 

 Capt. A. Guthrie. 



Elops saurus, Linn. 

 Sea-Pike. 



Occasionall}' noticed. C. and Y. 



Megalops thrissoides (Bl. and Sch.), Giintli. 

 Jew-fish. Tarpum. 

 Said by fishermen to be very rare. None observed. 



Brevoortia menhaden (Mitch), Gill. 



Menhaden. Mossbunker. Fat-back. Yellow-tail. 



Yery numerous in August and September; large numbers are 

 netted and used for oil and manure. C. and Y. 



Alosa sapidissima (Wilson), Storer. 

 Shad. 



Not abundant in vicinity of Fort Macon, but in the Neuse are 

 excessively so. C. and Y. 



Opisthonema thrissa, Gill. 



Haiiy-back. Thread Herring. 



This species, as a rule, appears early in June, and is regarded 

 as the avant-courier of the herring, so-called, P. pseudoha7^engus ; 

 it is abundant, but is not eaten to any extent. Size ten to twelve 

 inches. Y. 



Pomolobus pseudoharengus (Wilson). Gill. 

 Heiriug. Bhie-back. Alewife. 



Not abundant except in Neuse River, and the sounds further to 

 the northward. In fact its scarcit}^ near Fort Macon is such that 

 no regular fishing is followed with a view to its special capture. Y. 



Pomolobus mediocris (Mitch.), Gill. 



Hickory Shad. Hicks. Fall-Shad. 



Abundant; first noticed in March, 1871. Y. 



Engraulis brownii (Gmel.), VaL 

 Smelt. 



Several specimen secured, but the species is not common. Prof. 

 Putnam, after an examination of si)eeimens sent him, states as 

 follows: "Mitchell's descrij)tion of Clupea vittata does not (Viffer 

 from Giinther's of U. hroionii^ but Giinther's description of E. 




216 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [18*r7. 



mitcheUii differs in anal raj'S and in lengtli of maxillary, which 

 does not agree with my specimens from Fort Macon." 



^lurichthys marinus (Mitch.), Baird and Girard. 



Fork-tailed Catfish. 

 Ariopsismilberti (Val.), Gill. 



Sea-Cat. Catfiish. 

 Both species are occasionally met with near the Fort Macon 

 wharf, but are by no means abundant. C. and Y. 



Anguilla bostoniensis (Les.), De Kay. 

 Eel. 



Yery abundant in marsh}' creeks. C. and Y. 



Acipenser oxyrhynchus, Mitch. 



Sharp-nosed Sturgeon. 

 Acipenser brevirostris, Lesueur. 



Short-nosed Sturgeon. 



Both species said to be abundant in the ^orth, New, and Neuse 

 Rivers. 



Ceratoptera vampirus (Mitch.), Gill. 

 Devil-fish. 



None observed, but the fishermen state they are occasionally 

 seen. 



.Etobatis narinari, MUll. and Henle. 

 Sting-Ray. Lady-Ray. 



Yery common, sometimes growing to a large size. C. and Y. 



Fteroplatea maclura, Miill. and Henle. 

 Sand-Skate. Butterfly Ray. 



Yery common in fall outside of inlet. Nov. 5, 18tl, a specimen 

 was captured five feet in width four feet in length. C. and Y. 



Trygon centrura (Mitch ), Gill. 



Sling-ray. Whip-ray. Stingarce. 



Yery common. Migration takes place southward in latter part 

 of October. In July, 18T1, a very large specimen was found ex- 

 piring upon the beach ; upon dissection the liver and gall-bladder 

 were found filled with worms. C. and Y. 



Torpedo occidentalis, Storer. 



Cramp-fish. Torpedo. Electric Ray. 



None observed ; fishermen state tliey are rarely seen. 

 In tliis connection it may be mentioned tliat Capt. Absalom 

 Guthrie, an intelligent fisherman of Shackleford Banks, stated to 




ISTT.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 21 T 



the writer tbat upon a certain occasion, in removing fishes from his 

 net, he received a very perceptible electric shock from a fish re- 

 sembling the common toad-fish, B. tau, and upon repeating his 

 examination of the animal he experienced the same sensation a 

 number of times; when touching the head, the fisli appeared to 

 advance this organ as if eager to discharge the electric fluid. Ex- 

 pressing incredulity, a number of fishermen were called who cor- 

 roborated Capt. Guthrie's statement in every particular. Some 

 three or four sjjecimens had been found in the net at this time, 

 since which none have been seen, although a large reward was 

 oflered for living specimens. 



Raia laevis, Mitch. 



Skate. Winter Skate. 



Common. Y. 



Pristis antiquorum (Linn.), Lath. 

 Saw-fish. 



^ot observed in the immediate vicinitj' of Fort Macon, but is 

 abundant in the brackish rivers emptying into Bogue and Cove 

 sounds. It is frequently' taken in the New River, and attains a 

 considerable magnitude, the writer having secured a so-called 

 "saw" five feet in length from an individual over sixteen feet long 

 which had been captured in this river. The fishermen state that 

 this species is exceedingly hostile to the porpoise, and will fight 

 it whenever opportunity occurs. Y. 



Isuropsis dekayi, GilL 

 Mackerel-shark. 



Yery rare, a single skeleton having been seen. Y. 



Eugomphodus littoralis, Gill. 

 Sand-shark. Shovel-nose. 



Tolerabl}^ abundant both within and outside of inlet. Y. 



Sphyrna zygsena (Linn), Mull, and Henle. 

 Hammer-head Shark. 



But a single individual seen. Y. 



Keniceps tiburo (Linn.), Gill. 

 Shovel-head Shark. 



Uncommon. Y. 



A few other species of this family were noticed, but not iden- 

 tified. 



15 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [181Y. 



Branchiostoma caribaeum, Sundevall. 

 Laucelet. 



This curious species, so far as known, is to be obtained in but 

 one localit}', near Fort Macon, viz., on Bird Shoal, which lies to 

 the southward of Beaufort city ; some dozen or more specimens 

 were obtained by dredging. Y. 



A number of species of fresh-water fishes have also been ob- 

 tained from the rivers contiguous to Fort Macon, but it has been 

 deemed advisable to confine this list to the marine forms almost 

 exclusively'. It should be mentioned that the inquiries regarding 

 the preceding species of fishes were made at the suggestion and 

 under the direction of Prof. S. F. Baird, U. S. Com. of Fish and 

 Fisheries. 





hroc. A.N.S. PMU.» 1377. 



PL I 



QV H 





II' 



i 







-^ v.> 



cv 











-^o 



^ 1 am 



I SC 









«^Via 



i Rf 





^•''M?*t 



Wilder OR BraiR of CMmcRra 



'^^i:^!^^^^ 

 ^'^. 



M 



^0. 




187T.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



ON THE BRAIN OF CHIMJERA MONSTROSA. 

 BY BURT G. -WILDER, M.D. 



Introduction. — At the close of a paper upon the brains of the 

 fish-like vertebrates presented before this Acaderay on the 4th of 

 April, 1876, I exhibited a fairlj'' preserved adult male example of 

 Chimsera monstrosa^^ together with a drawing of the brain as 

 then partly exposed. After calling attention to certain peculiari- 

 ties which apparently had not before been observed, I expressed 

 the intention of preparing a fall description of it with figures for 

 presentation to the Academy at a future meeting. 



In the jDresent paper this intention is fulfilled so far as I have 

 been able, in view of the limited material at my command, and the 

 difficulties of interpretation which now embarrass all students of 

 fishes' brains. 



The extent of these difficulties becomes apparent when I state 

 that, since Gegenbaur has lent the weight of his high authority to 

 Miklucho-Maclay's new interpretation of the parts commonly 

 called cerebellum and optic lobes, no region of the brain is clear 

 as to its homology throughout the series of fish-like vertebrates. 



For the complete solution of these homologieal problems it is 

 evident that simple and embryonic brains are primarily more use- 

 ful than those of adults, or those which present peculiar charac- 

 teristics. Hence I am availing m3'self of every opportunity' for 

 preparing and figuring, both as wholes and in sections, the brains 

 of Mijxi'ne, Petrom)/zon^ Menobranchus (or Necturus), and em- 

 bryo sharks. But it is not likely that an embr3^o Chimsera will 

 soon be available, and it seems hardl}'' advisable to longer defer 

 the publication of facts, some of which, at least, appear to be new 

 and important, simply on account of doubts respecting the terms 

 which should be employed for the designation of parts. More- 

 over, notwithstanding its special peculiarities, the brain of 

 Chimsera presents certain features which may enable us to con- 

 nect brain-forms which have hitherto failed to be reconciled with 

 each other, or with the ideal, or typical brain, as now commonly 

 accepted. 



' Kindly placed at my disposal by Mr. Alexander Agassiz, Curator of the 

 Museum of Comparative Zoolog}' at Cambridge, Mass. 




220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



Again, as will be shown in the following historical sketch, the 

 brain of Chimsera has not hitherto been accurately figured or 

 fully described. 



This fact alone would have led me to welco.ne an opportunity 

 of adding to our knowledge of its structure ; but an additional 

 incentive la^' in the consideration that the three species of Chi- 

 msera, with the single species of Callorhynchus^ have always been 

 regarded as peculiar, and not readily assignable to a place among 

 the fish-like vertebrates. 



In 1834 Johannes Miiller (23, 74) united the two genera under 

 the title Holocephala, regarding this group as an order of the 

 class Pisces. 



Some zoologists have adopted Miiller's view ; but the Holo- 

 cephala are often included with the sharks and skates under the 

 name Selachians, or Elasmobranchiata. 



So far as I am aware the structure of the brain has never been 

 appealed to for the purpose of ascertaining the taxonomic rela- 

 tions of the Holocephala. I say the structure, because in the 

 arrangement proposed by Maj'er (5), little more than the external 

 foi*m of the brain seems to have been considered. 



Historical Sketch. — So far as I am aware, the earliest account 

 of the brain of Chimsera was by Valentin, in 1842. He states 

 (1,25) that his specimen was "well-preserved in alcohol;'' but, 

 judging from the figures, its condition was that of most fish-brains 

 which are not exposed to the action of alcohol A'ery soon after 

 death of the animal. The principal features, however, are shown 

 in so far as the brain was exposed ; but it is evident from both 

 the figure and description that only the hinder region of the brain 

 was examined, and that Valentin failed to discover the olfactory 

 lobes, the " hemispheres," and the greatly' elongated mesothalamic 

 crura, which ai'e characteristic of this type of brain. 



He does not state whether the brain was removed from the 

 skull by himself. The channel connecting the hinder part of the 

 brain-cavity with the front part is so narrow that the existence of 



' Ginither (19, viii. 349-352) recognizes the following species of ChimcBra, 

 viz. : moristrosa, coasts of Europe, Japan, Cape of Good Hope ; coUiet, 

 west coast of North America ; offinis, coast of Portugal. He also admits 

 but a single species of Callorhynchus, antarcticus ; but Dunieril (29, 692) 

 enumerates five. References are here made to a list of works at the close 

 of this paper. 




* 1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 221 



the latter might well be overlooked l)y an assistant. Still the 

 general aspect of the regions examined b}' Valentin differs so 

 much from that of any other entire brain that it is not easy to 

 see how he could have stated his determinations without some 

 qualification. 



The short portions of tlie crura which were retained with the 

 hinder regions of the brain, were regarded by Valentin as the 

 olfactory' nerves, and the}' are figured of considerable thickness, 

 although in my specimen they are thin and ribbon-like. The 

 rounded optic lobes he named hemispheres. The overhanging 

 cerebellum was interpreted as the thalamus, or lobus ventriculi 

 tertii, and the remaining parts as cerebellum and medulla. On 

 pages 32 and 33 Valentin speaks of the cavity of the optic lobes 

 (" Sehlappenhohlung"), and designates it on fig. -i (s) ; but neither 

 the figures nor the description indicate distinctly the parts which 

 he regarded as the optic lobes themselves ; they must certainly 

 have been very small in comparison with the supposed thalamus, 

 since all the other conspicuous portions are otherwise interpreted. 



Valentin's opinion as to the taxonomic significance of the brain 

 is expressed in the following passage. 



"Peculiar as the brain of Chimsera appears at first sight, it 

 nevertheless proves to be intermediate between the brain of the 

 Cyclostomes [M^'zonts], on the one hand, and that of the Plagios- 

 tomes on the other." (1,39.) 



The following year, in his Report upon the progress of Anatomy 

 (2), Johannes Miiller commented as follows upon the paper of 

 Valentin : — 



"Of the brain of Chimsera we had before no figures, so that 

 these b}'' Valentin, with his description, supply' a real deficienc3\ 

 In the designation of the parts, however, and therefore also in 

 the comparison with other brains, some things prove to be other- 

 wise. 



" The description and figures make it very probable that a part 

 of the medulla oblongata is taken for the cerebellum. This 

 remark of R. Wagner I find to be confirmed by the examination 

 of a well-preserved specimen of the ])rain of Chimsera. 



" What is called cerebellum belongs to the medulla, whilst that 

 which the author calls 'the hammer-formed body' and compares 

 with the lobus ventriculi tertii of Cvclostomes is the cerebellum. 




222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



The cerebellum and medulla with C/iunasra closely resemble those 

 of all genera of sharks whose brains are known to me." 



" The brain of Chimser-a has no resemblance to that of Cjxlos- 

 tomes, bnt much to that of sharks. Yet it differs greatly there- 

 from in the front part, because the optic lobes and tlie hemispheres 

 are fused together, which is not the case with the sharks and 

 skates. The olfactory nerves, as usual, enlarge behind the ol- 

 factory folds into a bulb. The small swelling from which they 

 spring is the only representative of the great median masses of 

 sharks which are probably the hemispheres." 



I have been unable to find the observation of R. Wagner, above 

 referred to, elsewhere recorded, but the foregoing passages lead 

 me to infer that both he and Miiller, like Valentin, believed the 

 entire brain of Ghimsera to be included in what was really only 

 the posterior i)ortion. It will be seen farther on that Gegenbaur 

 attaches a diflerent signification to Miiller's remarks ; but after 

 careful re-examination of the passage I find myself obliged to ad- 

 here to the interpretation above offered. 



In 1848, Busch published (3) figures of the brains of Chimeera 

 and of CaUorhynchus ; the latter, however, represents only the 

 posterior region. I am informed that a copy of this work has 

 been obtained for the American Museum of Natural History in 

 New York ; but the library of which it forms a part has not yet 

 (April, 1877) been placed upon shelves, and I have not been able 

 to examine it. 



These figures of Busch were reproduced in 1864 by Mayer (5). 

 Like many other figures upon the plates of this author, the gene- 

 ral aspect of these is good, but they are unsatisfactory in respect 

 to details. 



Mayer's description (5, 24, and 25) of these brains is in the 

 form of a classification. The Iloloeephala are included under 

 " Pisces Proencei)hali," characterized as having '• the olfactory 

 lobe developed into an olfactory hemisphere or cerebrum." This 

 group includes all the fish-like forms excepting the Teleosts which 

 he designates (5,27) as Pisces Mesencephali, the optic lobe being 

 the hemisphere. 



The brains of the Proencephali are further characterized as fol- 

 lows : "The olfactory lobe is two to four times greater than the 

 optic lobe, presents folds or lobes upon its upper surface, and iu 

 the middle two open lateral cavities with swellings within them." 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 223 



" The optic lobe is small, spherical, without superficial commis- 

 sure of the two hemispheres, or without corpus callosum,^ and is 

 separated from the olfactory hemisphere b}' an anterior prolonga- 

 tion of the cms cerebri. The basilar lobes [hypoaria ?] are little 

 developed. The cerebellum A-aries in size, so as to form a series. 

 There is a chiasma." 



Ma3^er subdivides the " Pro'encephali" into three suborders and 

 includes the Chimgera3 in the Macroepiencephali corresponding with 

 Selachians, or Plagiostomes and Holocephali. The characters are 

 as follows : " The optic lobe contains a rudimentary' ventricle, which 

 is afterward united with the third A'entricle, but no inner swellings. 

 The chiasma is broad. The cerebellum consists of an anterior 

 and posterior median mass and anterior and posterior convoluted 

 lateral lobes more or less developed." 



The " Macroepiencephali" are subdivided into two families, the 

 Raise or Skates, in which the Iieniisphere mass is " as broad as it 

 is long;" and the sharks and Holocephali, in which it is an "elon- 

 gated oval." 



Finall}^, this " familj'" forms two groups, in one of which '"the 

 cerebellum is very large and covers part of the hemisphere," while 

 in the other it "reaches only to the middle of the optic lobes." 

 In this group are included, Galeus canis, Scyyiwus licJiia, Car- 

 charias glaiicus, Scyllium catuhis, Scyllium borealis, Callorh.yn- 

 chus, and Chimaera mojistr'osa. 



In a note (p. 25) Maj'er sa^'S, " The hemisphere is particularly 

 slender and long in Scymnus lichia and Chimsera. Valentin's 

 figure cannot be employed for a different interpretation of the 

 parts. At any rate what Valentin calls the lohus ventriculi tertii 

 is really the cerebellum." 



The foregoing description indicates that Mayer's attention was 

 directed chiefly to the form and general aspect of the brain, and 

 that many of his determinations were based upon analogy rather 

 than homology. 



By implication Mayer ascribes lateral ventricles to all the 

 Pro'encephali ; but he makes no special mention of them in the 

 Holocephali, and neither the figures nor descriptions indicate the 

 existence of the large "foramina of Monro," and the swellings 

 therein which are described by me farther on. 



' Alluding to certain structures, wliich he regards as rci)rcsenting the 

 corpus cullosum, with the Mesencephali. 




224 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [18TY- 



The brains of Holocephala are not mentioned by Hollard, or 

 Vulpian (4). 



Owen copies (6, I, 2Y6, fig. 179) Busch's figure of the brain of 

 Chimeey-a monstrosa, and does not appear to have examined the 

 brain itself. The olfactory lobes are united with the succeeding 

 lobes (not separated as in Mayer's figure), and their necks appear 

 to be connected by a thick transverse commissure, which has no 

 existence ; in the original figure this appearance ma}^ have been 

 due to an unintentional exaggeration of shadow. 



According to the plan of the work, the author's views of the 

 Chimseroid brain are given in connection with his account of its 

 separate divisions. The laminae at the sides of the medulla are 

 regarded (p. 276) as developments of the restiform columns. The 

 optic lobes are mentioned (277) as smaller than either the cere- 

 brum or cerebellum. The " cerebral crura" (called by me meso- 

 thalamus) are said (281) to "advance some way before thej' ex- 

 pand into the prosencephala." The latter are described (282) as 

 " large, elongated, and smooth." On the same page it is said 

 that neither the cerebellum nor the optic lobes are so large as the 

 " prosencephalon ;" but on page 288, the cerebellum is said to be 

 "large." 



In 1869, Gegenbaur published (8) an extract from a letter from 

 Miklucho-Maclay relating to some peculiarities of the Chimjera's 

 brain, adding remarks upon their morphological and taxonomic 

 significance. 



" The brain of Chimaera, as presented in the figures and de- 

 scription of Valentin, offers so many peculiarities that it was im- 

 possible to discuss it alone, or in connection with the other series 

 offish brain-forms. 



"Miklucho found that the above-mentioned representation agreed 

 in part with the results of his investigations of the brains of Sela- 

 chians, but in other respects was wholly dissimilar. That repre- 

 sentation showed a Zwischenliirn,' which is similar to that of 

 Selachians. Valentin took it for tlie hemisphere. From it pro- 

 ceed a pair of swellings which were supposed to be the olfactory 

 lobes. Then follows a portion corresponding to tlie Mittelhirn 



' This is the common German term for the Thalamencephalon, or lobi 

 ventrlculi tertii ; but Mikhiclio and Gegenbaur apply it, incorrectly, as I 

 believe, to the optic lobes or ^[ittclbirn, and give this latter name to the 

 cerebellum. This question will be discussed hereafter. 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225 



[really the cerebellum], \\'hich Valentin named Zwisclienhirn ; then 

 a cerebellum with a medulla oblongata, which, interpreted as such 

 by Valentin, present the characteristics of these parts with Sela- 

 chians. 



" So the greater part of the brain agrees with that of the Sela- 

 chians, but where is the Vorderhirn ? 



"In Messina Herr Miklucho found the opportunity for investi- 

 gation of the brain of Chimaera, and writes as follows : ' In the 

 first place, I learn that the representation of Valentin is quite 

 correct in some minor points. But the part which Valentin calls 

 the olfactory tract, I ask myself, is not this the Hirnsfiele? I 

 extended the opening of the cranium, and, true enough, far for- 

 ward lay the large and handsome hemispheres connected with the 

 Zwischenhirn b}"^ elongated cerebral peduncles.' 



" This Vorderhirn therefore corresponds to the part described by 

 J. Miiller (2) as the swelling of the olfactory nerves lying behind 

 the olfactory folds. Since, moreover, there is a swelling which 

 gives off olfactory nerves, there can be no doubt respecting the 

 above-mentioned interpretation. 



" The peculiarity of the Chimsera's brain consists, therefore, es- 

 pecially in the remarkable extension of the brain-stem, and the 

 concomitant separation of the Vorderhirn from the Zwischenhirn. 

 In the same degree in which the Vorderhirn is moved forward, 

 the olfactory tracts are abbreviated, so that the swellings of the 

 olfactory nerves are in contact with the Vorderhirn itself. 



"■ The brain of Chimaera therefore resembles that of Selachians 

 much more closely than was supposed by J. Miiller, although the 

 great similarity of the hinder regions was by no means unknown 

 to him." 



Gegenbaur does not mention the figures of Busch, which, like 

 the copies of Maj-er and Owen, present all the features whose 

 discovery he seems to ascribe to Miklucho. 



On the other hand he credits Miiller with being acquainted with 

 the existence of these parts. As already stated, I cannot find, in 

 Miiller's remarks, any evidence of such knowledge. On the con- 

 trar3', he distinctly saj'S that "the lobi-optici and lobi-hemisphrerici 

 are closely united." 



Miklucho-Maclay, in 1868 and 1870, published two papers (7 

 and 10) upon the brains of fishes, but in neither do I find any 

 reference to the brain of Chimaei-a. 




226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877- 



The paper of Panceri and de Sanctis (9) is known to me only 

 through a brief abstract in the Zoological Record for 1872, p. 86. 

 It does not appear to treat especially of the brains of the Holo- 

 cephala. 



Dumeril, who describes (21, I, 65-73, pi. 2) somewhat at length, 

 though apparentlj' not from original investigations, the bi'ains 

 of Plagiostomes, makes no reference to those of Holocephala; 

 neither are they alluded to in the Manuals of Van der Iloeven or 

 Rolleston. 



In 1871, Huxley included the Holocephala among the Elasmo- 

 branchs, and left it to be inferred (13, 118) that their brains re- 

 semble those of sharks and skates. 



More recently', in his paper (16) upon the brain, the skull, and 

 the pectoral fins of Geratodus, Huxle}' makes some very suggestive 

 remarks (pp. 30,41,45,57) concerning the taxonomic relations 

 of Chimsera. These will be referred to hereafter. I do not see, 

 however, that he anywhere implies that the brain differs essen- 

 tially from the plagiostorae type, and in the summary (p. 41) of 

 the characters upon which he is inclined to base the opinion that 

 the Holocephala should be regarded as a primary subdivision of 

 fishes, the brain is not even mentioned.^ 



In April, 1876, the following note was added while my paper on 

 the brains of X. A. Ganoids (17) was passing through the press: 



"Just as this goes to press I am enabled, through the kindness 

 of Mr. Alex. Agassiz, to expose and examine the brain of a well- 

 preserved male Chimaera in the Museum of Compai'ative Zoologj'. 

 The cerebellum is very large and covers the optic lobes, but is 

 not folded transversely as in most, if not all, adult sharks and 

 skates. The crura thalami are very long and thin, and united 

 ventrally b}^ a delicate membrane, apparently only pia mater. An- 

 teriorly each crus expands into a prothalamus, the dorsal border 

 of which is thin and slightly everted. This prothalamus, how- 

 ever, instead of forming the principal anterior mass as in Ganoids, 

 is overlapped outside by a large and elongated hemisphere about 

 8 mm. in height and 15 mm. in length. On the hinder third of 

 the mesial surface is a large rounded foramen of Monro, 4 mm. in 

 diameter. The lateral ventricle extends forward into the olfactory 



' This paper was known to me only through a brief abstract in "Na- 

 ture" for Jan. Gth, 1876, until Nov. 1876, when a cop}- was kindly loaned 

 to me by Prof. S. F. Baird. 




ISVY.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 227 



lobe. Into the foramen, and occnp_ying its entire area, projects a 

 thickening of tiie outer wall of the hemisphere which may repre- 

 sent a primordial corpus striatum. Just in front of the foramen 

 the A'entral borders of the hemispheres are connected bj' a trans- 

 verse commissure. I greatly regret not having been able to ex- 

 amine this brain before presenting this paper. It seems to fur- 

 nish an actual form intermediate between the apparently distinct 

 tj'pes represented b}' the brains of Selachians, Ganoids, and 

 Dipnoans. If I correctly interpret the api)earance of a partial 

 subdivision of the elongated mass behind the olfactory lobe, 

 the Chimjera's brain presents a more equal proportion of hemi- 

 sphere and prothalamus than exists in Ganoids or Teleosts, where 

 the former seems to be reduced to a rudiment hardl}' recognizable 

 as such." 



Remarks to the same effect were made before the Academy on 

 the 4th of April, as already mentioned. 



The brain itself, with most of the drawings here published, v^-as 

 exhibited and remarked upon by me at the meeting of the Ameri- 

 can Association for Advancement of Science, Aug. 25th, 1876, in 

 connection with a paper on the brains of certain fish-like verte- 

 brates (24). 



Prof. Huxley's comments (25) upon that paper referred mainly 

 to the question of the homology of the optic lobes and cerebellum 

 of Selachians, which will be more fully discussed hereafter. 



The general aspect of the Brain of CniMiERA. — The brain 

 of the adult' Chimsera presents three regions of nearly equal 

 length, viz., a complex high mass behind, a pair of elongated 

 masses in front, and an intervening pair of slender bands. 



The height and complexit}- of the hinder mass remind one of 

 the corresponding region with sharks and skates. In general 

 form, the anterior masses resemble the hemispheres of Dipnoans; 

 but the slightness of their union by a transverse commissure is a 

 characteristic of Ganoids and Teleosts; while the length of the 

 crura, and the size and position of an orifice upon the mesial sur- 

 face of each anterior mass are features not hitherto observed, so 

 far as I know, in the brain of any other fish-like vertebrate. 



In general, therefore, it may be said that the brain of CJiimsera 



' From analogy we may infer that in very young examples the interval 

 between the anterior and posterior regions is much less ; also that the lobes 

 of the medulla are less folded, and the cerebellum smaller. 




228 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



presents certain features peculiar to itself; it also combines fea- 

 tures more or less characteristic of the brains of Ganoids and 

 Plagiostomes. The significance of these resemblances will be 

 considered farther on. 



The Typical Brain. — Notwithstanding great differences in the 

 relative size and complexity of the principal subdivisions, and in 

 the number of the accessory parts, the brains of all Mammals, 

 Birds, Reptiles, and Batrachians may be referred to a single type. 

 The reduction to this type may be made either by comparing 

 man}'- forms as intermediate stages of an ideal transition, or by 

 tracing back the development of the brain of a single form to its 

 earliest and simplest condition. 



Among the remaining groups of fish-like vertebrates the 1am- 

 pre}"- eels (Petromyzontidse) seem to possess brains closel}' re- 

 sembling those of Batrachians. The Myxinoid brain has not yet 

 been satisfactorily homologized with that of Petromyzon, but may 

 l)rove to be a degenerated form thereof. As figured by Owen 

 (20, and 6, I, fig. 186, p. 282), the brain of ProlopteruH seems to 

 closely resemble that of the tailed Batrachians ; but Huxle}' (16, 

 30) finds in Ceratodus (which is regarded as a Dipnoan) a feature 

 which is characteristic of the plagiostome brain, so that the mat- 

 ter is still in doubt. The brains of Ganoids, and Teleosts, and 

 Plagiostomes are not yet satisfactorily homologized with the 

 typical brain ; the same is the case with the Ilolocephala (17). 



Tlie typical brain comprises the following parts : Medulla and 

 fourth ventricle ; Cerebellum with its ventricle ; Optic lobes with 

 their ventricles ; Thalamic with the third ventricle^ the conarium 

 above, and hypoijhy&is below ; Hemispheres^ containing the lateral 

 (first and second) ventricles, which communicate with the third 

 through tlie foramina of 3Ionro ; Olfactory lobes with their ven- 

 tricles. 



Thickenings of the lower or outer walls of the hemispheres con- 

 stitute the corjiora striata ; and these are joined by the anterior 

 commissure which is a specialization of the anterior boundary of 

 the third ventricle, the lamina terminalis. 



The tlialami ai*e united posteriorly by the posteridr commissure, 

 and between their central portions may be formed the middle or 

 soft commissu7-e. Tlie fornix seems to result from a thickening 

 of the vertical fibres of the lamina terminalis in front of and 




1877.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



229 



above each foramen of Monro, and from the subsequent union of 

 the two series of fibres across the median line. 



The j^ons Varolii is a band of transverse fibres upon the ventral 

 side of the medulla, connecting the lateral regions of the cerebel- 

 lum. The corpus callosum is a transverse commissure uniting 

 the contiguous faces of the hemispheres. Tlie corpus callosum and 

 the pons Varolii seem to be confined to the mammals. 



Diagrams (slightly altered from Huxley) representing the type of vertebrate brain. S C, 

 spinal cord ; 3/, medulla oblongata ; 4, fourth ventricle ; 0, optic lobes ; I, optic ventricle, 

 or iter a tertio ad ventriculum quartum ; C Ce, crura cerebri ; 3, third ventricle ; Th, thalami ; 

 Co, conarium ; On, optic nerve ; F M, foramen of Monro ; L V, lateral ventricle ; U, hemi- 

 sphere ; Q S, corpus striatum ; 01, olfactory lobe ; Hy, hypophysis. 



Figures and descriptions of the typical brain are given by Hux- 

 le}- (13, 56-59); his figures were reproduced by me with slight 

 modifications in a former paper (17, plate 3), and they are here- 

 with presented again from a conviction that an understanding of 

 it, and of the brains of Amphibia which most nearh' embody the 

 type, is essential to the successful stud}^ of the many and com- 

 l)lex modifications which exist among the other vertebrates. 



Enumeration of Parts. — Accepting, provisionally, the type of 

 vertebrate brain as figured and described by Huxley, it is desira- 

 ble to ascertain how far its subdivisions are recognizable in the 

 brain of Chimsera. 



Respecting the following parts there can be no doubt : The 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



spinal cord {S C), the optic nerves (o n), and chiasma (oc), and 

 the olfactorj' lobes (01).^ 



But none of the intermediate regions have yet been determined 

 satisfactorily as to their limits, and as to their correspondence 

 with the subdivisions of the typical brain. 



The cerebellum lies between the medulla behind, and the optic 

 lobes in front. If the cerebellum, therefore, can be determined 

 the other two parts will naturally follow. 



The existence of a cerebellum is doubtful in the Myxinoids, 

 and among the other fislies it presents very great diversities of 

 size, form, and complexity. Thus in Petromyzon and the Dip- 

 noans it is a narrow bridge ; in Lepidosteus it is an inflated vesi- 

 cle ; in 3Iorrhua it is retroverted, in Pimelodus anteverted. In 

 skates, that which has been usuallj' regarded as the cerebellum is 

 a somewhat elongated and flattened mass which is distinctly sin- 

 gle and median, although it may present a longitudinal median 

 furrow. Witli man}- sharks this part is deepl}^ furrowed trans- 

 versely as in birds. 



Prior to the year 1868, so far as I know, this region of the 

 plagiostome brain was universally recognized as the cerebellum. 

 But Miklucho-Maclay (7 and 10) has proposed to call this the 

 Mittelhirn (optic lobes), and to restrict the term cerebellum to a 

 narrow band (figs. 2 and 8, c') between it and the medulla. The 

 reoion commonly called optic lobes he names Zwischenhirn (thai- 

 ami).'^ 



Now there is certainl}' some ground for this view. The trans- 

 verse lamina of sharks and skates is api)areutly identical with 



• For obvious reasons the determiualions of Valentin are not here con- 

 sidered. 



2 I feel constrained to protest against the introduction of the terms Vor- 

 der-hirn, Zwischen-hirn, Mittel hirn, Hinter-hirn, and Nach-hirn, and of 

 their English equivalents fore-brain, etc. If the conventional and uni- 

 versally understood terms medulla, cerebellum, etc., are to be discarded for 

 descriptive names derived from one modern language, what is to prevent the 

 anatomists of Spain, or Kussia, or any other country from employing other 

 descriptive titles derived from their own languages? Such substitutions 

 Avould soon cause morphological science to revert to the chaotic condition 

 in which descriptive zoology was found by Linnaeus. 



The region designated by thalami has already received the following 

 names : Zwischen-hirn, between-brain, inter-brain, dieucephalou, deuten- 

 cephalon, lobus ventriculi tertii. 




1871.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 231 



the visible cerebellum of Amphibia, Myzonts, and Dipnoans ; it 

 seems to represent the simple and primordial form of the organ. 

 Nor is it easy to account for the sudden interpolation between it 

 and the optic lobes of the greatly expanded or inflated mass com- 

 monly called cerebellum in other vertebrates. 



But it is worth bearing in mind that, with some Ganoids, as 

 Acipenser^ and Lepidodeus (Wilder, 17, 181, fig. 7), the anterior 

 border of the apparentl}' simple cerebellum is continued forward 

 into the cavity of the optic lobes. Why then may we not imagine 

 that an eversion of this fold has given rise to the inflated or con- 

 voluted mass of sharks and skates ? This would give us two dis- 

 tinct portions of the cerebellum; the posterior lamina, and the 

 anterior vesicle. 



To Maclay's interpretation assent has been given by Gegenbaur 

 (12, 549; 14, 524). But neither of these anatomists has as yet 

 published facts or arguments which warrant the abandonment of 

 the older view, while several others have questioned the validity 

 of their conclusions. Amongst these are Jackson and Clarke 

 (15, 77) ; Balfour (26, 560) ; Huxley (16, 31-25) ; and myself (17, 

 172, and 24). In a letter to me. Prof. Rolleston has also expressed 

 his non-acceptance of Maclay's view. 



In his pai)er on Ceratodus (16, 31) Prof. Huxle}^ sa^^s : " I can- 

 not accept the views of Miklucho-Maclay, whose proposal to alter 

 the nomenclature of the parts of the Elasinobranch's brain ap- 

 pears to me to be based upon a misapprehension of the facts of 

 development." 



My argument (24) against the view of Maclay was based upon 

 the fact that in the brain of a large shark (Carcharias obscurus) 

 the fibres of the optic tracts are distinctly traceable to the optic 

 lobes and the thalami, and not at all to the cerebellum as should 

 be the case if the cerebellum be reall}^ the optic lobes. 



In commenting upon the i)aper just mentioned, Prof. Huxley 

 (25) repeated the opinion expressed in the paper on Ceralodus, 

 and called attention to the fact that wherever the fourth nerve 

 (trochlearis or patheticus) has been identified among vertebrates, 

 its apparent origin has invariably been between the optic lobes 

 and the cerebellum. Tins point seems to have been considered bj' 

 J. Miiller,' and it is briefl}^ discussed by Maclay and Gegenbaur, 



' Yergl. neurologic dcr Myxinoidcn, 1838, p. 215. 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [ISTt. 



who, however, regard it as not constituting an insuperable objec- 

 tion. 



There is one other consideration which appears to liave been 

 overloolced hitherto. Among the air-breathing vertebrates, from 

 frog to man, the roof of the optic ventricle is complete, while that 

 of the third ventricle is only partial. Posteriorly the dorsal 

 borders are united b}' the posterior commissure, but anteriorly 

 the true nervous tissue is absent, and the ventricle is covered only 

 by the lining membrane and the overlying pia mater. According 

 to the new interpretation, the thalarai of fishes lack the feature 

 which characterizes them throughout the series of air-breathing 

 vertebrates, and assume the peculiarities of the optic lobes. 



Should Maclay and Gegenbaur insist upon the correctness of 

 their interpretation, the matter will need to be treated in full here- 

 after; but as, for obvious reasons, the material for its elucidation 

 must be derived from sharks and skates rather than from Ghi- 

 masra, I trust that in adhering in the present paper to the com- 

 monly accepted view I shall not be held to disregard the earnest- 

 ness of Maclay, or the high authoritj^ of his distinguished teacher. 



For reasons which will be presented farther on, I have desig- 

 nated the parts between the optic and the olfactory lobes as 

 follows: the slender bands as the mesothalavius ; their posterior 

 enlargements as the basifhalamus ; their anterior enlargements as 

 the pi'othalami ; and the remainder of the elongated mass on each 

 side which incloses a ventricle, as hemisphere. 



The Spinal Cord (S C). — For at least 3 cm. behind the me- 

 dulla the cord' is of uniform size and shape. Its greatest trans- 

 verse diameter is 4 mm., and its vertical diameter 3 mm. As 

 seen in the cross-section (fig. 22), its greatest width is ventrad of 

 the centre, and the sides of the ventral median fissure (u) slope 

 outward more gradually than those of the dorsal (c?). 



The nerves have been separated from the cord, but along the 

 dorsal lateral line (fig. 1, d /) is a series of slight elevations about 

 2 mm. apart, which may indicate the points of origin of the dorsal 

 roots of the spinal nerves; the ventral lateral line (fig. 4, y /) 

 presents no such elevations. The lateral tract (/ c) between the 

 dorsal and ventral lateral lines is slightly elevated above the dor- 

 sal and ventral tracts {d c and v c), and, when first exposed, pre- 

 sented a darker color which disappeared in a few days. 



' The remainder of the cord was not exposed. 




187Y.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



Tlie structure of the cord, and the homologies of its parts \\-ith 

 those of the human spinal cord, should be determined by micro- 

 scopic sections of better preserved specimens. 



The Medulla Oblongata. — The medulla consists of two parts, 

 the medulla pi'ope?' ov continuation of the spinal cord, aud two 

 pairs of lobes whicli may be provisionally called dorsal and lateral. 



The medulla ma}- be said to commence at a point about 4 mm. 

 behind the posterior end of the lobes, and about 3 mm. behind the 

 angle of the fourth ventricle. At this point the cord begins to 

 change its form and to increase in size. 



The dorsal border preserves nearly- tlie same direction as that 

 of the cord itself, but the ventral border inclines ventrad, so that 

 just behind the lobesthedorso-ventral diameter is 4 mm. Ata point 

 4 mm. farther forward the ventral border is 2 mm. lower than the 

 ventral border of the cord, and it remains at this level until sud- 

 denly- deflected ventrad beneath the cerebellum. 



The width of the medulla also increases so as to be about 6 

 mm. just behind the lobes. In front of this point the width be- 

 comes about 8 mm., on account of the prominent lateral lobes. 



The dorsal lateral line {d I) begins to be deflected downward at 

 the point of transition from the cord to the medulla; but its deflec- 

 tion is more rapid than that of the ventral border; the dorsal tract 

 {d c) not only increases in widtli, hut is slightl}' elevated above 

 the lateral column. The distinctness of the dorsal lateral line 

 (d I) ceases just in front of the posterior end of the lateral lobe, 

 but the elevated ventral margin of the lobe follows the same 

 general direction. The slight elevations which indicate this line 

 upon the cord do not appear upon the medulla. The ventral 

 lateral line (o /) gradually disappears at about the middle of the 

 length of the medulla, as seen in fig. 4 ; the ventral median furrow 

 (v) ends rather abruptly just beliind the downward deflection of 

 the ventral surface under the cerebellum ; it does not present the 

 bifurcation which is figured by Valentin, 1, fig. 3, F. 



The dorsal fissure {d) widens into the fourth ventricle about 3 

 mm. in front of the point wheie the enlargement of the medulla 

 begins, and about 1 mm. behind the superjacent dorsal lobes. The 

 posterior angle of the ventricle is covered by the ligula (fig. 3, I.) 



The fourth ventricle is quite long, but, as seen in figs. 19-22, its 

 cavity is nearly obliterated by the development of its various 

 walls. The hinder part of the floor presents three rounded tracts 

 16 




234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877- 



upou each side. Suggestions as to the homologies of these tracts 

 are offered b}' Jackson and Clarke (15, 79), but I refrain from 

 doing more than indicate their appearance and relative position. 



Close to the median line is a rounded tract (m f), which is trace- 

 able anteriorly to the cerebellum ; it is about 0.7 mm. in diameter. 

 Just outside of the posterior half of this is a depressed triangu- 

 lar surface, the exposed border of an intermediate tract {i t)- 

 Outside of this, and apparently the forward continuation of the 

 posterior border of the fourth ventricle, is a tract (n t) of which 

 the mesial border, projecting over the intermediate tract, presents 

 a series of transverse furrows with intervening nodules, on ac- 

 count of which I have called it the nodular tract. It is apparently 

 what Owen (G, I, 273) calls the " vagal tract." The whole extent 

 of these parts can only be seen after raising the lateral lobe, which 

 may be done without, apparently, causing a rupture of fibres, al- 

 though the attachment is quite intimate. It is then seen, as in 

 fig. 19, that the four nodules are ganglia of origin of as mau}^ nerve 

 roots, which, however, do not in this example project beyond the 

 surface of the medulla. 



As already stated, the lobes of the medulla are two pairs, late- 

 ral and dorsal. (See figs. 1, 2, 3, 20, 21.) These terms are here 

 employed in a descriptive sense. The lobes may perhaps be ho- 

 mologized with parts of the medulla of man and of other verte- 

 brates, but the interpretations of Owen and Valentin do not wholly 

 coincide, and I forbear adding to the synonymy until the structure 

 and development of these lobes have been examined among the 

 sharks and skates; Torpedo and its allies would probably- be very 

 instructive. 



The lateral lobe {I I) seems to be an enlarged continuation of 

 the dorsal tract of the cord. Its dorsal surface is in contact with 

 the ventral border of the dorsal lobe. 



The outer surface of the dorsal lobe is somewhat rough, and, as 

 seen from the side or from the mesial surface, presents the form 

 of an elongated triangle with its apex backward; seen from above 

 the apex appears rounded. The mesial surface is vertical, and 

 closely applied against that of its lateral homologue. 



As seen in fig. 20, the posterior portion of the dorsal lobe is 

 wholly separate from tlie lateral lobe and the medulla; but a 

 section farther forward, as in fig. 21, shows a line of union be- 

 tween its ventral margin and the mesial border of the lateral lobe. 




1871.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23.'i 



Anteriorl}', both the doi'sal and the lateral lobes develop a series 

 of folds (d in' and I'), which are continuous with each other, and 

 through the transverse lamina (c') with the cerebellum. 



These folds are so complex that a complete description would 

 be very long and difficult to follow; it seems better, therefore, to 

 wait until their type can be ascertained from a young brain, or 

 from comparison of the parts with those of sharks and skates. 



The Cerebellum (C and c'). — As with most Plagiostomes the 

 cerebellum of Ghimsera consists of two quite distinct portions, 

 an anterior and a posterior. Tlie anterior is a prominent inflated 

 mass (C), the posterior is a transverse lamina (c') which lies be- 

 hind the other, and is onl}^ visible after dissection, as in figures 2 

 and 8. This posterior cerebellum is what Maclay regards as repre- 

 senting the entire organ, the anterior inflated portion being, in 

 bis opinion, the optic lobes. "■ 



As alread}^ intimated (page 231), the lamina may prove to be 

 the true homologue of the simple cerebellum of Amphibia, Dipnoa, 

 and Mj-zonts. Its position is well shown by Valentin (1, fig. iv. 

 t), but his figure does not present one peculiarit}' : just upon the 

 median line the thickness of the lamina becomes greatly' dimin- 

 ished, as shown in my figures 2 and 8. 



The anterior cerebellum (C) is an inflated oval mass resting 

 upon the medullary lobes behind and the optic lobes in front. As 

 seen from tlie side the short handle of tlie " hammer-formed body" 

 is formed by upright crura (c), which join the base of the brain 

 at nearly a right angle. 



This portion of the base of the brain (c c) presents no pecu- 

 liarities to distinguish it from the regions immediately in front 

 and behind. The exposed surfaces are rounded and smooth ; 

 there is no sign of a transverse ventral commissure, ov i^onsVaro- 

 Ui. The ventral outline of the base of the brain changes its direc- 

 tion at this point, and, as seen in fig. 2, its vertical thickness 

 diminishes rapidly as it extends forward beneath the optic lobes. 



The crus or peduncle of the cerebellum (c) measures about 3 

 mm. in antero-posterior width, and is 4.5 mm. high. Its hinder 

 border is slightly overlapped by the anterior lamina of the lateral 

 lobe. In this alcoholic specimen tlie exposed surface of the 

 peduncle readily detached itself as a lamina thickest in the centre 

 and thinner at all the borders; the plane of separation is indi- 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1817. 



cated by the line upon the section represented in fig. 8. The sur- 

 face exposed by the detachment of the lamina is irregular. 



As shown in the horizontal section (fig. 8), and the median ver- 

 tical section (fig. 2), tiie peduncle of the cerebellum consists of an 

 anterior and a posterior vertical lamina, wiiich are in close apposi- 

 tion, and continuous by their outer borders. The anterior lamina 

 is 2 mm. in thickness at its junction with the horizontal portion or 

 cerebellum proper, but below becomes very thin, forming a sort 

 of " valve of Vieussens," which is continuous with the hinder bor- 

 der of the optic lobes. The posterior lamina is more complex. 

 On the middle line it is ver^^ thin ; the cut surface of this median 

 thin portion is shown in fig. 2. But on each side of the middle 

 line it becomes suddenly very thick, as is best seen in fig. 8 {c p). 

 Posteriorly the lamina becomes continuous with the vertical 

 lamina (c'), which Maclay regards as representing the entire cere- 

 bellum. 



Upon the exposed surface the dorsal limit of the peduncle is 

 indicated by a curved line with its concavity looking ventrad ; 

 this also marks the line of separation of the superficial lamina 

 already referred to. 



Dorsad and in front of this is a second furrow which extends 

 obliquely dorsad and backward from the ventral border of the 

 cerebellum. Excepting these, and the median furrow to be pre- 

 sently described, the exposed surfaces of the cerebellum and its 

 peduncles are smooth. 



The expanded portion of the cerebellum is 13.5 mm. in length ; 

 about 8 ram. lie in front of the centre of the peduncle. The 

 anterior portion also has a slight downward inclination, so that, 

 to employ Yalentin's comparison, the posterior portion is the 

 striking part of the hammer, and the anterior is the claw. 



The greatest width of the cerebellum (7.5 ram.) is just over its 

 peduncle; it tapers quite regularlj' to an obtuse point before 

 and behind, giving the whole an oval outline. Seen directly from 

 above the posterior extremity is the sharper; but when the brain 

 is tilted backward, as in fig. 5, the anterior extremity is more 

 pointed. 



The dorsal aspect of the cerebellum presents a median longitu- 

 dinal furrow, 5.5 mm. long. Its centre lies over the centre of the 

 peduncle. In Yalentin's figure the furrow extends nearly the entire 

 length of the cerebellum. 




1817.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 237 



The ventricle of the cerebellum (c v) has the same general form 

 as the organ itself, as shown in the median section (fig. 2), the 

 transverse section (fig. 10), and the horizontal section (fig. 11). 



The cerebellum of Chimeera presents some interesting features. 

 It is large and its walls are thick, 3'et its form is simple, while 

 those of man}' sharks and skates, in the adult state, are much 

 folded. The median furrow occurs in some Plagiostomes, but is 

 a rare feature of the cerebellum of other vertebrates. 



The Optic Lobes (0). — Reference has already been made (p. 

 230) to the view of Macla}^ and Gegenbaur respecting the nomen- 

 clature of these parts. 



As is usually the case the form of the optic lobes is quite sim- 

 ple. Their size is moderate, and when the brain is viewed from 

 above they are wholly concealed b}'^ the overhanging anterior ^Dor- 

 tion of the cerebellum, as shown in figs. 1 and 3. In fig. 5 the 

 parts are seen from above and in front so as to expose the optic 

 lobes. The difference between the outline of the lobes in figs. 5 

 and 6 is tlius accounted for. 



The optic lobes are borne upon the crura cerebri (c c) alread}- 

 described as forming an obtuse angle with the medulla. The 

 outer surface of each cms presents a distinct rounded elevation 

 or protuberance («), rather nearer the ventral than the dorsal bor- 

 der. It is ^hown, somewhat exaggerated, by A^alentin (1, figs. 1 

 and 3), and called by him '■'■tuber cruris cerebri.''^ 



Measured in the direction of their greatest length, nearlj- 

 parallel with the crus, the optic lobes are 8 mm. long; taken 

 together, their greatest transverse diameter is 7 mm., which is 

 reduced to 3.5 mm. near their hinder and more rounded end, and 

 to 2.5 mm. near their front and compressed extremit}'. The 

 median furrow, which marks the division into two lateral lobes, 

 extends their whole length. The size and form of the ventricles 

 and the thickness of ditferent parts of the walls are shown by the 

 sections represented in figures 2, 8, and 9. Tlie cavity is smaller 

 than in the brains of many other fishes, but not, as with mammals, 

 contracted into an " aqueduct of Sj'lvius." 



As seen in fig. 9 the ventricle presents four well-marked regions : 

 two median, the upper broad and the lower narrow; and two 

 lateral, and compressed, one upon each side, extending upward 

 and slightly outward into the elevations upon each side of the 

 median furrow. The lower compressed portion of the ventricle 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



is wider behind and in front than at tlie middle; hence the sides 

 may be not improperly called the lobes of the optic ventricle (figs. 

 2 and 9, o v I). But these swellings are not necessarily to be 

 regarded as homologous with the thickenings or involutions of the 

 posterior walls in some Reptiles and Amphibia. 



The parts already described constitute a series of median masses 

 which may, without difficulty, be regarded as formed by the modi- 

 fication of a corresponding number of primary cerebral vesicles. 

 But it is not so easy to understand how the remaining portions 

 of the Chimsera's brain have been developed from the single ante- 

 rior vesicle which, with birds and mammals, has been found to 

 give rise to all the parts in front of the optic lobes. 



These parts are the thalamic the hemispheres^ and the olfactory 

 lobes. 



Could we trace the development of the Chimera's brain, or 

 had we full acquaintance with the brains of all living PlagiOs- 

 tomes, and of some apparently transitional fossil forms, it is 

 probable that little difficulty would be experienced in assigning 

 the proper limitations and names to these parts. At present our 

 determinations and nomenclature must be largel}' provisional. 



Concerning one pair of lobes, however, there can be very little 

 doubt, so that it may be well to commence with them. 



The Olfactory Lobes (0 1). — These parts, whatever their size 

 or form, have always been identified among vertebrates by one or 

 both of two criteria: their continuity, either direct or by crura, 

 with the hemispheres behind ; and their connection, through the 

 olfactory nerves, with the nasal cavities in front. 



In Chimasra the nasal cavities receive numerous nerves from 

 the anterior surface of the most anterior pair of lobes, which may 

 therefore be called the olfaclory lobes. 



Each lobe is a sub-quadrate mass, about 7 mm. high, and 4 mm. 

 both in width and in its greatest antero-posterior dimension. Its 

 junction with the hemisphere is marked by a decided constriction, 

 which becomes a cleft at the ventral border. 



With this alcoholic specimen the lobe may be readily detached 

 from the hemisphere in a plane which is, at first, a continuation 

 of the cleft dorsad and forward, but becomes nearly vertical at 

 about the middle of the height of the lobe. The two facets thus 

 exposed are slightly sunken below the border of the lobe. At 

 about the centre of the dorsal facet is a ver^' slight circular de- 




181 T.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 239 



pression (fig. 16, o Z u) ; this coincides with the anterior extremitj'' 

 of tlie lateral ventricle (figs. 12, 14, 18, I i'), and may therefore be 

 regarded as a ver}'^ rudimentary olfactor}' ventricle. 



Tiie mesial surface of the olfactory lobe is flat, and continuous 

 "with that of tlie liemisphere. The outer surface has less antero- 

 posterior extent, because the anterior surface looks obliquel}'^ out- 

 ward. Tlie outer surface is rounded, there being a very decided 

 depression between its most prominent portion and the most 

 anterior elevation of the hemisphere. 



The anterior surface is not only oblique, as above stated, but 

 also divided into three distinct regions, as shown in figs. 12 and 

 IT. The dorsal and ventral regions are nearly circular, though 

 the transverse diameters are slightly greater than tlie vertical, 

 and covered by the filaments of the olfactor}"" nerves. Betvveen 

 them is a narrow, depressed area, which is devoid of these fila- 

 ments. The olfactory lobes are wholly distinct from each other. 



The Hemispheres (H). — The parts called hemispheres with 

 man, birds, reptiles, and batrachians have the following features, 

 constant and common to all: 1. They are lateral masses. 2. 

 They contain each a lateral ventricle, which communicates poste- 

 riorly with the median third ventricle through a "foramen of 

 Monro." 3. They have no direct nerve prolongations, being con- 

 nected onl}' with the thalami behind, and the olfactory lobes in 

 front. 4. The posterior extremities of their mesial walls are 

 united by the anterior wall of the third ventricle — the lamina 

 terminalis. 



Of these four characters the first three ccrtainlj^ appl}- to the 

 anterior three-fourths of the elongated mass, which, with Chimaera, 

 lies just behind each olfactory lobe ; but respecting the fourtii 

 character some qualification may be required. According to the 

 second and fourth tests the posterior fourth of the mass cannot 

 be regarded as a true hemisphere ; the same is the case with the 

 whole of the second pair of lobes, with Ganoids and many 

 Teleosts, which have been usually called hemispheres, but which 

 contain no lateral ventricle, and have, therefore, no true mesial 

 wall. 



To these pseudo-hemispheres, I have given the name py^olhalami 

 (IT, 1T9); and the same term may be applied to the posterior 

 fourth of the elongated lobes of the Chimjera's brain. 



Strictl}' speaking, the term prothalaraus should be applied to 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [181 T. 



the region as a whole ; each lateral moiety would then be a hemi- 

 proOialamus. But the shorter word may generall}' be used with- 

 out the risk of misconception. 



The length of each lobe is about 11 mm. ; its height is 6 mm., 

 and its greatest thickness 4 mm. 



I am unable to determine the precise boundary' line between 

 the prothalamus and the true hemisphere. The external surface 

 is divided b}'' two transverse depressions into three elevated 

 regions, of which the middle is the larger. The hindermost ele- 

 vation may be said to correspond with the prothalamus. 



The mesial surface presents three features Avhich, so far as I 

 know, have never been described — an aperture, an elevation, and 

 a commissure. The region occupied by these corresponds very 

 nearly with the middle elevation upon the outer surface; see figs. 

 1, 2, 13, 14, and 15. 



The commissure is designated as /^ upon figs. 13 and 14, but 

 upon fig. 2 it is not marked at all. It is a flat fibrous band con- 

 necting the mesial surfaces of the two hemispheres. It was torn 

 during the extraction of the brain, but appears to be about 3 mm. 

 wide at its middle, and nearly twice as wide at either end. Its 

 thickness is about 0.5 mm., the anterior and posterior borders 

 being distinct and rounded. Its plane is slightly oblique, the 

 anterior margin of the attachment being near the middle of the 

 height of the hemisphere, about 4 mm. behind the olfactory suture, 

 while the posterior margin is near the lower border. It seems 

 safe to conclude that this commissure represents a remnant of the 

 primitive lamina terminalis, but I am not prepared to say that it 

 corresponds to the anterior commissure of higher vertebrates. It 

 may be homologous with the commissure of the proiliabimns in 

 Lepidosteus, figured b}^ me in 17, plate 2, but its relations to the 

 foramen of Monro are not the same, as will now appear. 



The foramen or aperture already referred to is the posterior 

 termination of the lateral ventricle. From the section shown in 

 fig. 15 it is seen that near the anterior termination, at the olfac- 

 tory lobe, the inner and outer walls are of nearly equal thickness. 

 But the cavit}' gradually approaches the mesial surface, and opens 

 thereon about 7 mm. from the olfactory suture. Tliis orifice forms 

 a semicircle; the extremities are one above the otlier, and 4 mm. 

 apart. The margin is distinct and rounded, though tliin. The 

 commissure is Continuous with the ventral margin, but extends 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



2.5 mm. in front of it, and about 1 mm. beliind it. The dorsal 

 margin is continued bacliward and downward as a slight ridge 

 upon the mesial surface of the protlialamus near the dorsal border. 



There can be no doubt that this aperture corresponds to the 

 foramen of Monro, or passage from the median to a lateral ven- 

 tricle, but it is not easy to understand how the commissure, a part 

 of the lamina terminalis, can extend so far in front of it. 



Into the space which is nearl}- circumscribed by the margins of 

 the foramen and its posterior continuations there projects a smooth 

 convex surface, which is designated as x on figs. 2, 13, and 15. 

 Its posterior border is semicircular, and a deep furrow separates 

 it from the mesial surface of the prothalamus. Anteriorlj- it is 

 continuous with the outer wall of the lateral ventricle, as shown 

 in fig. 15. As suggested in a previous paper (17, 183, note 31), 

 since this surface indicates a thickening of the outer wall of the 

 ventricle, the thickening itself may be a primordial co7-pus stria- 

 tum^ but I liesitate to emplo}' the term at present and would pre- 

 fer to designate it as the corpus innominatum. 



The Thalamencephalon (T). — This is the general name for all 

 the region between the hemispheres in front, and the optic lobes 

 behind. In most brains it is comparatively short, and presents 

 no very characteristic features; but its extreme length forms the 

 most obvious peculiarity of the Chimrera's brain. 



With adult mammalia the region includes two irregular masses, 

 tlie thalarai, between which is the third ventricle ; the conarium 

 is above and the hypophysis below. With Chwisera the thalami 

 themselves form three distinct regions, posterior, middle, and 

 anterior, which I have named basithalamus, mesothalamus, and 

 p7'othalamus. 



The jyrothalamus. This region has alread}' been described in 

 connection with the hemispheres with which the two prothalami 

 are continuous. There is reason for believing that this region 

 exists in all vertebrate brains, and is very extensive in certain 

 forms. This idea will be again presented at the close of this 

 paper. I pass now to the intermediate region of the thalamence- 

 phalon. 



The mesothalamus (c t). In m}- description of the brain of Lepi- 

 dosfeus (17, 179) this region of the brain was called crura thalami; 

 the new term is to be preferred. 



The mesothalamus consists of two narrow bands about 16 mm. 




242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



long, and 2 mm, in vertical diameter ; their thickness is about 0.5 

 mm. Their dorsal and ventral borders are slightly thicker than 

 the intermediate portion, and are inclined slightly toward the 

 middle line so that the inner surfaces are concave, the outer con- 

 vex. 



Tlie two bands may have been united by a thin ependyma, but 

 so far as regards true nervous tissue they are separate in their 

 entire length. Their hinder extremities arise quite abruptly 

 from the basithalamus. Anteriorl}^, the mesial concavity becomes 

 greater, but at the same time, the dorsal border presents a thinner 

 edge which is turned outward. Then each band becomes continu- 

 ous with the corresponding prothalamus. 



The basithalamus (b t). Tliis name is given to the depressed 

 and constricted part just in front of the optic lobes, of which it 

 forms a kind of neck. It may be said to be bounded by two im- 

 aginary lines, the one passing just in front of the optic lobes and 

 the protuberance upon the underlying crus, the other passing 

 from the most anterior border of the optic lobe in front of the 

 chiasma. The triangular outer surface thus bounded represents 

 the optic tract, the expanded nerve passing upward and backward 

 to the optic lobe of each side. The basithalamus seems to corre- 

 spond to the hinder part of the thalami with air-breathing verte- 

 brates. 



The cavity of the basithalamus is a slender rounded canal, the 

 forward continuation of the optic ventricle. Anteriorly this 

 canal curves upward, and opens through the foramen of the thal- 

 amus (fig. 5), just above the chiasma. This foramen is not rounded, 

 but quadrangular, the angles projecting vertically and laterally. 

 From above the orifice is concealed by a pair of thin horizontal 

 plates (figs. 1, 2, 5, tl) which are attached to the anterior border 

 of the optic lobes, and united by the posterior fourths of their 

 mesial borders. This double cover is not represented by Valen- 

 tin, and seems not to haA'e been noticed in the brains of other 

 fishes ; but I have found it, under one form or another, in all 

 ganoid, teleost, and plagiostome brains so far examined. It seems 

 to be the reduced representative of the posterior part of the roof 

 of the third ventricle with Amphibia and Myzonts ; if so, we 

 ■should name it posterior commissure. 



The conarixim. With Amphibia this part lies just above the 

 foramen, closing it, in fact ; still it not infrequentlj" is removed 




IStT.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPFIIA. 243 



with the roof of the brain cavit}' ; with most Phigiostomes it is in 

 close contact with the roof, and tliis was probably the case witli 

 Chimsera^ since tlie conarium of this example is wanting. A de- 

 pressed quadrangnlar space is left upon the median line between 

 the contiguous margins of the optic lobes and the cover above 

 described. 



The hypoaria (Ji). As seen in figures 1, 2, and 4, beneath the 

 basithalamus is a rounded mass, consisting of a pair of oval lobes, 

 with a triangular median surface between their hinder portions. 

 These are apparently the parts called by authors hypoaria^ or 

 lohi inferiores ; they may correspond to the tuber cinereum of 

 anthropotomy, but the homology of the parts of this region of 

 the brain is not yet Avell determined. 



Each lobe is about G mm. long, and about 4 mm. wide. The}- 

 are hollow; their cavities communicate with each other, and, 

 through a vertical passage, with the ventricle of the basithalamus. 

 On the median line the triangular space between the hinder por- 

 tions of the lobes presents a fissure about 3 mm. long, b}^ which 

 the cavit}^ of the hj-poaria opens externall}'. 



Below the corresponding fissure in the brains of Lepidosteiis 

 and other fishes is a globular mass, apparently vascular, which 

 may represent the h^'pophysis. No sucli mass was found in this 

 specimen, but it may have been lost through inadvertence. As 

 above intimated, the homology of these parts is not yet under- 

 stood. 



The optic nerves (o n) are about 1 mm. in diameter, excepting 

 just before their union to form the chiasma; here they increase 

 in width, and then become constricted. The dorsal borders of 

 the enlargements are slightly overlapped by the mesothalami. 



The optic chiasma (o c) is ver^- compact; but I have not ex- 

 amined its structure. 



Morphological Considerations. — Whatever may be the pecu- 

 liarities of the hinder regions of the brain of Chimsera, there ap- 

 pears to be a close homologj' between them and the hinder regions 

 of the brains of most sharks and skates ; the latter, therefore, as 

 more accessible, should be employed for the determination of the 

 structure, and mode of development of the medulla, cerebellum, 

 and optic lobes. 



But the ordinary Plagiostome brain seems to throw no light 

 upon the study of the remaining divisions of the chimicroid brain, 




244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1877. 



and some features of the latter seem to be exaggerations of the 

 characters of certain Ganoids, In the brain of Scymnus lichia, 

 however, as figured b}' Ma3-er (5, taf. 1, fig. 7), tliere are indica- 

 tions of a transition between the plagiostome and chimaeroid typos, 

 and I vould urge upon any anatomist who may have tlie oppor- 

 tunit}', the need of a careful examination of its brain. Still more 

 desirable is the discovery of very 3'oung examples of Chimsera. 



I think that I begin to see, though still dimly and imperfectly, 

 the method by which the close homology of the parts in front of 

 the optic lobes can be demonstrated. 



The first, and most essential, step in this demonstration seems 

 to me to be the recognition of the distinctions between a hemi- 

 sphere and a. prothalamus. The former is a lateral mass contain- 

 ing a ventricle. The latter is, stricll}' speaking, a median mass 

 inclosing the anterior portion of the third ventricle, which opens 

 laterally into the hemisphere ventricles through the foramina of 

 Monro. Its anterior boundary is the lamina terminalis. In sharks 

 and skates the prothalamus persists as the hinder part of the 

 nearly solid mass in front of the optic lobes. The true hemi- 

 spheres project forward to a greater or less extent, as shown in a 

 previous paper (27). This median mass also persists in Ceratodus, 

 although Prof. Huxley calls it lobus communis (16, 30). With 

 Chimsera the lamnia terminalis is reduced to a slight commissure, 

 and the outer walls of the prothalamus, almost disconnected, be- 

 come lateral solid masses, the hemiprolhalami. The true hemi- 

 spheres persist, with their lateral ventricles. But with Ganoids 

 and Teleosts the hemispheres seem to be rudimentary, and their 

 name has been usuall}^ applied to the hemiprothalami. The meso- 

 thalami may be more or less elongated in various genera. 



With the air-breathing vertebrates the hemispheres are promi- 

 nent, and the protlialamus correspondiugh' reduced. But I think 

 its ventricle can be recognized in all, especiall}' embr3'os, as the 

 space bounded in front by the lamina terminalis, and opening 

 laterally through the foramen of ]Monro. A more extended con- 

 sideration of this matter must be reserved for a separate paper. 



Taxonomic Considerations. — The views of Miiller, Valentin, 

 and ]\[ayer respecting the affinities of the Ilolocephala are given 

 in the historical sketch. Gegenbaur (14, 408) makes the group 

 of equal value with Teleosts, Ganoids, and Selachians [Plagios- 

 tomes]. 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



Huxle}-, in speaking (16, 41) of Miiller's separation of the Holo- 

 cephala, expresses himself as follows : — 



" It appears to me that he might have been justified in going 

 still further; for, considering, in addition to the cranial characters, 

 the structure of the vertebral column, and of the branchitTe, the 

 presence of an opercular covering to the gills, the peculiar denti- 

 tion, the almost undeveloped gastric division of the alimentary 

 canal, the opening of the rectum quite separately from and in 

 front of the uro-genital apertures, the relatively small and simple 

 heart, the Chimteroids are far more definitely marked off from the 

 Plagiostomes tlian the Teleostei are from the Ganoids." 



I have only to add, upon the present occasion, that the conclu- 

 sion which Prof. Huxley bases upon the consideration of other 

 parts of the organization, seems to me fully confirmed by the 

 structure of the brain of Chimsera^ as described in the foregoing 

 pages ; the Holocephala seem to differ from the Plagiostomes 

 more than the Ganoids differ from the Tcleosts, and should form 

 a primary subdivision of the fish-like vertebrates, like the Amphi- 

 bia, Dipnoi, Ganoidei, Teleostei, Plagiostomes, and Mj-zontes or 

 Marsipobranchs. (See, also, pages 227 and 228.) 



List of Papers and Works referred to. 



1. Valoutiu. Ueber das centrale Nervensystem unci die Nebenlierzen 

 der Chimrera monstrosa. Archiv fiir Anatomic, 1842 ; 25-45, Taf. II. 



2. Mijller Johannes. Remarks upon the foregoing paper of Valentin. 

 Bericht liber die Fortschritte der vergleicbenden Anatomieder Wirbeltheire 

 in Jabre, 1842. Archiv fiir Anat., 1843 ; CCLIII. 



3. Buscb. De selacbioruni et ganoideorum encepbalo. 4to. 1848. 



4. Vulpian. Leqoiis sur la pbysiologie generale et comparative du systeme 

 nerveux. 8vo., pp. 20. Paris, 18G1. 



5. Maj^er, F. J. C. Uber den Ban der Gebirns Fische in bcziebung auf 

 eiue darauf gegriindete Eintlieilung dieser Tbicrklasse. Mit sicbeu steiuta- 

 feln. pp. 40. Novorum Actorum * * * Naturae Curiosorum. Tom. 

 Vicesimus Secundus. 1864. 



6. Owen, Richard. Comparative anatomy and physiology of vertebrates. 

 3 volumes, 8vo. ; pp. 2155, 1471 figures. London, 1861-68. 



7. Miklucho-Maclay. Bcitrag zur vergleicbenden Anatomic dcs Gebirns ; 

 pp. 19, 3 fig. Jenaiscben Zeitscbrift fiir 3Iediciu und Naturwissenschaft. 

 1868. 



8. Miklucbo-Maclay, and Gegenbaur. Ueber den Bau des Gebirns des 

 Chimera monstrosa. Jenaische zeitscbrift, 1869, V. heft 1. [Abstract in 

 Journal of Anat. and Phys., 1869, iv. 163. J 




246 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF TISTY. 



9. Panceri and de Sanctis. Sopra alcuni organ! della Ceplialoptera. 

 Napoli, 1869, 4to. 



10. Mikluclio-Maclay. Beitrage zur vergl. Neurologie der Wirbelthiere. 

 L Das geliiru der Selachier, mit sechs Tafeln. II. Das mittelliirn der Ga- 

 noideu uud Teleostier, mit einer Tafeln. 4to. Leipzig, 1870. 



11. Rolleston, George. Forms of animal life ; being outlines of zoologi- 

 cal classification based upon anatomical investigation and illustrated by de- 

 scriptions of specimens and figures. 8vo. pp. 436, 12 plates. Oxford, 1870. 



12. Gegenbaur, Carl. Ueber die cranialuerven des Hexanchus. Jenai- 

 sche zeitschrift, 1871, VI., 497. 



13. Huxley, T. H. Manual of the comparative anatomy of vertebrated 

 animals. 16rao., pp. 431, 110 figures. New York, 1872. 



14. Gegenbaur, Carl. Grundriss der vergleichende Anatomic. 8vo., pp. 

 406, 320 figures. Leipzig, 1874. 



15. Jackson, W. H., and Clarke, ^Y. B. The brain and cranial nerves of 

 Echinorhinus spinosus, with notes on the other viscera. Journal of Anat. 

 and Phys. Oct. 1875 ; X. 75-197, pi. VII. 



16. Huxley, T. H. Contributions to morphology. Ichthyopsida. — Xo. 

 1. On Ceratodus Forsteri. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, Jan. 4, 1876. 



17. Wilder, Burt G. Notes on the American Ganoids, Amia, Lepidos- 

 teus, Acipenser, and Polyodou. Proc. Am. Ass. Adv. Sci. 1875. 148-189. 

 3 plates. 



18. Stieda, Ludwig. Untersuchungen iiber das Centralnervensystem der 

 Knochenfische. Siebold und Kolliker's Zeitschrift, 1867, XIII., 1 et seq. 



19. Giinther, Albert. Catalogue of fislies in the British ^luseum. 8 

 volumes, 8vo., 1859-70. 



20. Owen, R. Description of Lepidosiren [Protopterus] annectens. 

 Linnsean Transactions, xviii. 327-361, 5 plates. 



21. Dumeril, Aug. Historic naturelle des poissons ou ichthyologie gene- 

 rale. Tome I. Elasmobranchcs [sharks, skates, and chimeroe'l, pp. 720, 14 

 plates. 1865. Tome II. (Ganoides, Dipnes, Lophobranches), pp. 625, 12 

 plates. 1870. Paris, 8vo. 



22. Foster and Balfour. The elements of embryology. Part I. Histor)'- 

 of the Chick. Crown 8vo., London, 1874. 



23. Miiller, Johannes. Vergleicheude anatomic der Myxinoiden, und der 

 Cyclostomen, mit durchbohrten Gaumen. Abhandlungen der Konigl. 

 Akad. der Wissenschafteu zu Berlin, 1834 (publ. in 1836) ; 65-340, 9 plates. 



24. Wilder, B. G. On the brains of some fish-like Vertebrates. Proc. 

 Am. Ass. Adv. Sci., 1876; pp. 10, 1 plate. 



25. Huxlej', T. H. On the constancy of origin of the fourtli pair of 

 nerves as an argument for the commonly accepted determination of the 

 cerebellum and optic lobes of sharks and skates. Unpublislied remarks 

 upon the preceding paper, at the meeting of the Am. Ass. Adv. Sci., at 

 Butfalo, N. Y., Aug. 25, 1876. 



26. Balfour, P. M. The development of elasmobranch fishes. Journal 

 of Anatomy and Physiology, 1876 ; x., 377-411, plates x. and xvi ; 517-570, 

 pi. xxi.-xxvi. ; 072-683, pi. xxix. 




187 T.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 24T 



27. Wilder, B. G. Xote on the development and liomologies of tlie an- 

 terior brain mass -svitli sharks and skates. Am. Journal of Science, Aug. 

 1876, xii., 103-105, 3 figures. 



Explanation of Figures} 



Figures 1, 2, 4, and 15 are natural size. The remainder are en- 

 larged two diameters. 



Fig. 1. Brain of Chimsera monstrosa, %, from tlie left side. 



Fig. 2. The brain is cut vertically and longitudinally on tlie me- 

 dian line so as to show the mesial surface of the right half. 



Fig. 3. View of the hinder region, from above. 



Fig. 4. The same region from below. 



Fig. 5. The same region from above and in front, so as to show 

 the optic lobes and the parts in front of them. The cerebellum is 

 foreshortened. 



Fig. 6. The optic lobes from above. 



Fig. 7. The anterior portion of the medulla, showing parts 

 which are naturall}' covered b}' the crebellum. 



Fig. 8. Horizontal section of the optic lobes, the peduncles of 

 the cerebellum, and the anterior portion of the medulla. 



Fig. 9. Transverse section of the optic lobes in the direction 

 of a line drawn from the anterior extremity of the cerebellum to 

 the posterior margin of the hj-poaria. 



Fig. 10. Vertical transverse section of the cerebellum between 

 the anterior and posterior laminoe. The corresponding portion of 

 the medulla is not shown. 



Fig. 11. Horizontal section of the cerebellum, showing the in- 

 terior from above. 



Fig. 12. Outer surface of the left anterior region, olfactory 

 lobe (separated), hemisphere, prothalamus, and part of the meso- 

 thalamus. 



Fig. 13. The same (exclusive of the olf. lobe) from above. 



Fig. 14. The same from belovv. 



Fig. 15. The same in horizontal section. 



Fig. IG. Left olf. lobe, showing the surface b}'' which it was at- 

 tached to the hemisphere, and the slight depression which consti- 

 tutes the olf. ventricle. 



Fig. 17. The same, showing the anterior surface. 



' The figures were drawn from nature, and on stone, by Miss G. D. 

 Clements, a student in the Natural History course at Cornell University. 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



Fig. 18. The anterior surface of the hemisphere corresponding 

 to the surface shown in fig. IC>. 



Fig. 19. The medulla after removal of the dorsal and lateral 

 lobes so as to show the roots of the vagus. 



Fig. 20. Transverse section of the medulla near the hinder end 

 of the lobes. 



Fig. 22. The same in front of the nerve roots. 



Fig. 23. Transverse section of the spinal cord. (These three 

 figures are mainly diagrammatic, proper microscopic sections not 

 being available.) 



Explanation of Signs. 



The names of the principal divisions are indicated bj' capitals, 

 as follows: — 



S C, spinal cord. 



M, medulla oblongata. 



C, cerebellum. 



O, optic lobes. 



T, thalamencephalon. 



H, hemispheres. 



O 1, olfactory lobesi 



The following are designations of the subdivisions arranged 

 under their respective divisions. The numbers indicate the fig- 

 ures in which the parts are shown. 



S C, spinal cord. 



V, (4, 20, 21, 22) v'entral (anterior) median fissure. 

 d, (3, 22) dorsal (posterior) median fissures. 



V c, (4, 22) ventral columns. 

 d c, (1, 3, 22) dorsal column. 



V ?, (4, 22) ventral lateral line. 



dl, (1,3,22) dorsal lateral line indicated by a series of 



nerve roots. 

 I c, (1, 22) lateral columns. 

 M, medulla oblongata. 



IV, (2, 3, 20, 21) fourth ventricle. 



I, (2, 3) ligula. 



no, (1) origins of nerves. 



r, (1) restiform bodies, continuations of the posterior 



columns. 

 m /, (10, 20) median tracts seen in the fourth ventricle. 




IStt.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 249 



it, (19, 20) intermediate tracts. 



nf, (19, 20) nodular tracts. 



V r, (19, 20) roots of vagus nerve. 



dm, (1, 2, 3, 20, 21) dorsal lobes of medulla. 



dm', (1, 3, 5, 7) anterior convoluted portion of the same, 



II, (1, 20, 21) lateral lobes of medulla. 



/ /', (1,3, 4,5, T, 8) anterior convoluted portion of the same. 

 C, cerebellum. 



c, (1) cms or peduncle of the cerebellum. 



df, (3, 5, 10) dorsal furrow. 



c a, (2, 8, 11) anterior lamina. 



c p, (2, 8, 11) posterior lamina. 



if, (11) furrow on anterior surface of posterior lamina. 



c', (2, 8) posterior cerebellum. 



cv, (2, 8, 10, 11) ventricle of the cerebellum. 



i, (2) communication between the fourth ventricle and the 

 cerebellar ventricle. 

 O, optic lobes. 



c c, (1, 2, 9) crura cerebri supporting optic lobes. 



t, (1, 5, 9) protuberance upon the cms cerebri. 



o V, (2, 8, 9) optic ventricle, median and larger portion. 



ov', (9) median ventral portion. 



o v", (9) lateral dorsal portions. 



ovl, (2, 9) lobes of the optic ventricle. 



ovp, (2) constricted communication of the optic with the 

 cerebellar ventricle. 



ova, (2) constricted communication with the third ven- 

 tricle. 

 T, thalaraencephalon. 



ht, (1, 2) basithalamus. 



h, (1, 2, 4, 5) h3'poaria, or lobi inferiores. 



h V, (2) ventricle of the hypoaria. 



hf, (4) fissure of the hypoaria. 



t c, (2) canal continuing forward from the optic ventricle ; 

 really part of the third ventricle. 



tf, (5) foramen of the thalamus. 



tl, (1, 2, 5) double cover over the foramen. 



c, (2, 4) optic chiasma. 



on, (1, 2, 4) optic nerves. 



U 




250 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



ct, (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 12, 13, 14) mesotlialamus. 



pt, (1, 2, 12) prothalamus. 

 H, hemisphere. 



/7?i, (2, 13, 15) foramen of ]\Ionro, 



I u, (14, 15, 18) lateral ventricles. 



X, (2, 13, 15) rounded thickening of outer wall of ven- 

 tricles. 



Z ?, commissure of the hemisphere (lamina terminalis). 

 01, (1, 2, 12, 16, 17) olfactory lobes. 



Is, (2) suture between hemisphei'es and olfactory lobes. 



I u, (16) rudimentary olf. ventricle. 



o / n, (17) two groups of olf. nerves. 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 251 



ON THE KOCKS NEAR PHILADELPHIA. 



BY THEO. D. RAND. 



In pursuit of the study of Mineralogy I have become somewhat 

 acquainted with the rock formations near Philadelphia, and have 

 thought some of the observations of sufficient interest for publi- 

 cation, that others, possessing more knowledge, may apply them 

 towards a solution of the geology of the region. Specimens of 

 many of the rocks to which I refer will be found in the collection 

 recentl}' given to the Academj-. I have endeavored to trace the 

 rocks along their outcrop, and will consider them in their order 

 at the Schu3'kill, beginning at Graj^'s Ferry. 



From that point to Girard Avenue Bridge, Mica Schists with 

 beds of gneiss occur — the gneiss including granitic veins and the 

 following minerals: Muscovite, Orthoclase, Albite, Tourmaline, 

 Garnet, Beryl, Lime Uranite, Copper Uranite, and Sulphide of 

 Bismuth (Bismuthinite). This is most fully developed at Fair- 

 mount. There is a striking resemblance between these rocks and 

 those of the vicinity of Chester, Delaware Co., in which all the 

 above minerals occur, except the Bismuthinite. Carbonate of Bis- 

 muth, Bismutite, however, does occur. 



On the west bank of the river above Girard Avenue is a mass 

 of coarse granite, in which the characteristic minerals are Musco- 

 vite and Biotite intercrystallized. A similar granitic rock appears 

 at several points along the ridge west of the creek known as Mill 

 Creek, in the vicinity of 44tli Street, West Philadelphia, and par- 

 ticularly at a point on the Baltimore turnpike in the same vicinity, 

 as observed by Prof. Koenig and Mr. H. C. Lewis. 



Above the Columbia Bridge there is a peculiar gneiss of a red- 

 disli color, and near b}'^ efflorescences of Halotrichite. More abun- 

 dant is a hornblendic gneiss at South Laurel Hill. 



This belt appears to cross Belmont Avenue above George's 

 Hill, and the Penna. R.R., about half wa}' between 52d Street and 

 Overbrook. A deep cutting exposes the rock, which there abounds 

 in Pyrites, and which in part is very compact. Much of this rock 

 completely decomposes within two or three years after exposure. 



At the Falls, a belt of very hard porphyritic gneiss crosses the 

 river, forming the N. W. flank of Laurel Hill, and the S. E. bank 




252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877- 



of the river, and seems to have caused the abrupt bend at this 

 point. This belt is very narrow at the Schuylkill, only from one 

 hundred to two hundred feet in width, but it widens as it goes 

 southwestward. The lower edge is crossed by the Pennsylvania 

 Railroad less than a quarter of a mile from the rocks last described, 

 the upper at Elm Station, six miles from tlie city — a distance 

 along the railroad of nearly two miles, but across the strike pro- 

 babh' about one and a quarter. This rock is so hard that its out- 

 crop can be almost continuously traced. 



At Flat Rock Tunnel, on the Schuylkill, seven miles above 

 Fairmount, a bed of hard mica schists and gneiss crosses the 

 river — this is probably the continuation of the beds so largely 

 wrought for building stone at Frankford, and crossing Wayne 

 Street, Germantown, near the railroad, and the Wissahickon at 

 McKinne3''s quarry, there causing the abrupt bend in the stream. 

 The minerals of this belt are particularlj^ zeolites, chiefly Stilbite, 

 also Muscovite, Biotite, Orthoclase, Albite, Sphene, Calcite, Apa- 

 tite, Epidote, Copper Fju-ites, Chrysocolla, etc., and Molybdenite. 

 The quarries at Frankford having been most extensive, all these 

 minerals have been found there, nearlv all of them at McKinne^'^'s, 

 and onh' the Zeolites, Calcite, Muscovite, Orthoclase, and Albite at 

 the Tunnel. The identity of the rock to McKinney's is, I think, 

 unquestionable, and the continuation at the Tunnel probable. 



About two miles above, passing mica schists, sometimes filled 

 with garnets, we reach the well-known Soapstone belt, which 

 extends in a straight line, most clearlj' marked, from a point on the 

 west flank of Chestnut Hill, about S. 54° W. This belt was sup- 

 posed to dip under, near Merion Square, at the " Black Rocks," 

 but Prof. Booth called my attention to its appearance at Rose- 

 mont Station, Penna. R.R., ten miles from Philadelphia. Its cha- 

 racteristic rock is the so-called bastard soapstone, a paste of Stea- 

 tite, filled with irregular masses, and occasionally crj'stals, of 

 Serpentine, probably, as I have heretofore shown, pseudomorphic 

 after Staurolite. This same rock, with the c^'stals well defined, I 

 have ol)served on the road from Philadelphia to West Chester, 

 ten and a half miles from Philadelphia, the belt in which More 

 Phillips' Chrome mine has been opened. 



West of this, at the Schuylkill, and apparentl}^ on the S. W. 

 bahk only, is a bed of slaty serpentine, very dark olive-green, and 

 sometimes almost black in color, associated with a mineral resem- 




18T7.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 253 



bling Schiller Spar, and also an almost unaltered hornhlendic 

 mineral, apparently Enstatite. This belt is narrow, but ver^- well 

 defined, with frequent outcrops. It cuts diagonally', but at a very 

 small angle, the rocks next described, and continues in a course 

 W. 5° X., on their north flank, and is almost without doubt con- 

 tinuous with the well-known belt just north of West Chester. Its 

 outcrop is frequently marked by cellular quartz with cavities 

 lined with crystals, and stained by oxide of iron. At one point, 

 one-quarter mile S. W. of Radnor Station, Penna. R.R., twelve 

 miles from Philadelphia, at the side of an old quarr3', the mode of 

 formation of this rock from the Serpentine is shown in a remark- 

 able manner. At the bottom, the serpentine is almost unaltered, 

 above, cracks are seen extending through it in various directions, 

 but usually one series nearly parallel and more or less at right 

 angles to another, higher still ; these cracks are seen to contain 

 films of quartz, whicli become thicker and thicker, while the 

 inclosed serpentine is softer and more rusty in color, until, near 

 the top, the cells have thick walls, and contain only a small 

 amount of what appears to be oxide of iron, and in part are 

 empty. Well waters in the vicinit}' contain magnesia and iron, 

 and sulphuric and silicic acids. 



At Spring Mills, a bed of gneiss and granite, or granitoid gneiss 

 crosses the Schuylkill. These are very hard rocks, and form the 

 highest summits of the table-land, of which they form the N.W. 

 boundary. The stratification is nearly vertical, and the charac- 

 teristic mineral is a bluish quartz, wliich weathering out of the 

 rock is ever3'where visible in the roads. Taking this as a criterion, 

 these rocks extend from above Van Arsdalen's quarry, in Bucks 

 Co., at least to Darby Creek. The gneiss is often hornblendic, 

 sometimes porphyritic, and generally composed of thin layers of 

 alternately light and dark material. It seems entirely destitute 

 of granitic veins or of crj'stalline minerals, except those composing 

 the mass of the rock quartz feldspar — probably both orthoclase, 

 and a triclinic feldspar, hornblende and mica. 



At the Schujdkill, immediatel}' nortliwest of this, is a small 

 limestone valley, and then the continuation of the Edge Hill rocks. 

 On the northeast side of this valley stretches a narrow djke of 

 trap almost continuously exposed for many miles, crossing the 

 Scliuylkill at Conshohocken, and the Penna. R.R. and the Lancas- 

 ter turnpike at Wayne, thirteen miles from Philadelphia: there is 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18TT. 



also an exposure of trap in a cutting of the Pennsj-Ivania R.R, 

 through the granitic belt northeast of Radnor Station. This is 

 not in line with any other trap dyke of which I have knowledge. 



The Edge Hill rocks form a ridge at the Schuylkill not over a 

 quarter of a mile in width, but rapidly widening, until between 

 Radnor Station and the King of Prussia they are over a mile and a 

 half wide. They are composed of talc-like schists, but are proba- 

 bly hydro-mica schists, in nearly vertical strata, with beds of 

 quartz with cavities which appear to have contained pyrites, much 

 resembling the auriferous quartz of the Eastern United States. 

 This ridge or table-land, wiiich is quite steep in its slopes, forms 

 the southeast boundary of the Chester Valley. 



A remarkable feature of the part of Montgomery Co. and Ches- 

 ter Co. bordering on the Schuylkill is the direction taken by the 

 streams. The general features are high hills extending in a N.E, 

 and S.W. direction with deep limestone valleys between, nearly at 

 right angles to the general course of the Schuylkill. The streams, 

 however, do not follow the valleys. The Wissahickon leaves the 

 Montgomery Co. valley and flows eastwardly through a deep nar- 

 row gorge through very hard rocks a distance of over five miles. 

 The Valley Creek flows down the Chester Valley and tlien turns 

 abruptly westwardly and flows through the N.W. boundary hill. 

 The Gulf Creek flow^s down the valley two or three miles, then 

 turns westwardly- and flows through a deep and narrow gorge into 

 another vallej' on the west, with banks rising abruptly two or three 

 hundred feet. 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255 



NOTES DESCRIPTIVE OF A STONE MOUND AND ITS CONTENTS. 

 BY JOHN FORD. 



A few 3-ears ago Mr. E. P. Ford, of Piasa, 111., a careful student 

 of American arcbaeolog}', and a valued friend and relative of the 

 writer, became the owner of a tract of timber land bordering on 

 Coup's Creek, a small stream that forms the northern boundarj' 

 of Brown's Prairie, Macoupin Count}-, 111. 



A group of eight burial mounds lying within the borders of this 

 ground had remained undisturbed prior to its purchase bj' Mr. 

 Ford. 



These were located upon the crest of a ridge which rose some 

 fifty feet or more above the creek level, and about one hundred 

 yards from its northern bank. 



They were ranged in a line nearlj'^ parallel with the stream, the 

 diameter of each being about thirty feet, and the distance between 

 their respective bases upwards of fifty. 



When discovered by Mr. Ford, all but one, the fourtli, number- 

 ing from east to west, were comparatively hidden bj- a heavy 

 growth of timber and brushwood. 



The absence of vegetation upon the exceptional one suggested 

 the probability of its being what is locally termed a stone mound, 

 and the work of opening it was immediately begun. 



About eighteen inches below the surface, and near the centre of 

 the mound, a stone slab was struck, and subsequently two others. 

 These being cleared and lifted, revealed a grave or vault which 

 measured twelve feet in length by four and one-half feet in widtli, 

 with sufficient depth to permit a man to sit upright. It was con- 

 structed of stone plates or slabs throughout, a few of them being 

 quite large, and squared on the edges. The covering was com- 

 posed of the three largest, while the next in size formed the ver- 

 tical walls, which were braced upon the outside by others set 

 firmh- against them at an angle of fortj'-five degrees. The floor, 

 which had been sunken somewhat below the original surface, con- 

 tained a few small slabs, but was more especially composed of a 

 sort of rubble-work. This was only foui' or five inches in thick- 

 ness, but very hard and as dry as powder. 



From some cause, whether by the action of friends of the dead, 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



b}' worms, or the percolation of water, it appeared impossible to 

 explain, the entire space between the walls of the grave, not occu- 

 pied b}' bones, was packed with a peculiar, granulated, but ex- 

 ceedingly tenacious earth. Owing to the dense character of this 

 earth but little progress was made at the time, beyond ascertain- 

 ing that a grown person had been placed in a sitting posture in 

 each corner of tlie grave, all facing eastward ; while between them 

 the bones of perhaps twenty others were mingled together indis- 

 criminately. Nearly all of the latter had been broken previous to 

 interment, and it was particularly noticeable that the left sides of 

 the skulls accompanying them had in every instance been crushed 

 by a blow from some Jjlunt weapon, while the remaining portions 

 had been left in perfect condition. 



Carefully replacing the covering slabs, and leaving the contents 

 of this grave for future examination, a search was made on the 

 slope of the mound for others. Two smaller ones were soon dis- 

 covered, each built of the same kind of material and in the same 

 manner as the central one. The smaller of these, measured be- 

 tween the walls, was three feet long by eighteen inches wide, and 

 was, doubtless, the grave of a child, the white lines made by the 

 bones being easily defined in the dark surrounding earth. 



A portion of this grave, and nearly the whole of the largest one, 

 was subsequently (in October, 1875) excavated and examined by 

 Mr. Ford and myself, and we had every reason to believe that 

 these, together with the third one in which the skull and shells 

 accompanying this paper were found, had been constructed at the 

 same period of time and by the same people. 



The scene presented upon opening the third grave was some- 

 what novel if not startling in character. Four skeletons sat 

 within it, two and two ; their arms crossed, the knees of one pair 

 pressing sharply against the backs of the other, and the faces of 

 all (like those in the central grave) turned directl}^ toward the 

 east. The enveloping earth was not so dense, or the quantity so 

 large in proportion, as in the other graves; so that most of the 

 upper parts of the skeletons were exposed upon lifting the cover- 

 ing slab. 



At first it was supposed that the skulls of all could be safely 

 removed ; but though the greatest care was taken in the opera- 

 tion, only one specimen, which has been presented to the Academ3', 

 was secured in a comparatively perfect condition. 




ISTY.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 257 



Although this grave measured but six feet in length by three 

 in width, there was little doubt among the party that it contained 

 relics other than those of a human character. A careful search 

 revealed nothing, however, except four large marine shells, the 

 Busycon perversum^ of Linnaeus. The position of each of these 

 in relation to the bodies was the same. The canal or smaller end 

 of one had been placed in tiie right hand of each individual, while 

 tlie larger portion rested in the hollow above the left liip. But 

 more remarkable than this was the fact that within each of the 

 shells there had been packed what appeared to be the bones of a 

 child ; the skull, which evidently had been crushed before burial, 

 protruding beyond the aperture. Of course, any hypothesis re- 

 garding the purpose of this peculiar rite must necessaril}' be of a 

 conjectural character; nevertheless, it was difficult to resist the 

 conclusion that these infants were sacrificial offerings to the spirits 

 of the dead whom the living desired to honor. 



i^Toue of the mounds comprising the series under consideration 

 exceeded three feet in height, though several others opened in the 

 vicinity, and in the adjoining county of Jerse}-, during my visit, 

 rose from five to ten feet above the surrounding level. Nothing 

 was found in them, however, save some broken pottery and a few 

 deca3ing bones. 



After much search, the bluff" or quarry from which the slabs had 

 been s^Dlit was discovered by Mr. Ford, about three-fourths of a 

 mile west of the mounds. The rock is quite hard, somewhat fos- 

 siiiferous, and probably belongs to the upper carbonifex'ous series. 



Whatever may be the facts regarding the origin, degree of civi- 

 lization, etc., of the mound-building race, it is highly probable 

 that they were a people of fixed habits, possessing decided con- 

 structive ability, and subject alike to order and system in their 

 dailj- avocations. 



Evidences of an undoubted character go to show that they 

 were careful cultivators of the soil, and it is no uncommon l)elief 

 among the thinking men of the Southwestern States that the 

 small prairies so numerous in that section owe their present tilla- 

 ble condition, if not their origin, to the indefatigable labors of this 

 "eminently agricultural people.'" 



These prairies are skirted almost invariably by beds of streams 

 and belts of growing timber, and it was chiefly upon the bottom 



' Albert Gallatin. 




258 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



lands adjoining the one and the ridges inclosed by the other that 

 the mounds were constructed. As a rule, those nearest the water 

 level in the region examined bj' us were mere foundations for 

 dwellings, while those for burial and defensive purposes appear to 

 have been built exclusivelj^ upon the ridges. It was also noticed 

 that the burial mounds occupied a position upon the nearest ridge 

 directlj^ northeast of the village proper, while those for defensive 

 purposes were located principally upon the most favorable points 

 northwest of the same. 



Mr. Ford informed me that he had observed this peculiar dis- 

 position of the mounds at manj^ other points besides those we hac 

 visited together, and that, so far as he had been able to ascertain, 

 the same systematic arrangement prevailed along the whole of an 

 irregular line (that may have been an ancient highway), exteni- 

 ing from the foot of Lake Michigan to the mouth of the Illinois 

 River, a distance of about two hundred and fifty miles. 



The great antiquity of the mounds is indicated by the condition 

 of their contents. Though vast numbers of them have been 

 opened, the relics found therein have been much the same ; a 

 handful of bones or a skeleton that crumbled at the touch, with 

 here and there an ornament or weapon, some broken pottery, or a 

 solitary marine shell. Rarely, indeed, has a skeleton been dis- 

 covered in a condition suitable for intelligent examination, while, 

 until very recently', but one perfect skull belonging incontestably 

 to the mound-building race, has been secured, and that one was 

 taken from a mound in the Scioto Vallej', near Chillicothe, Ohio.^ 



' Squier and Davis, vide Baldwin's A. A., page 48. 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



June 5. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirt3"-two members present. 



A paper entitled "Additional Xotes on Bassaricyon Gabbii," 

 b}' Joel Asaph Allen, was presented for pnblication. 



June 12. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty-four members present. 



The deaths of Amable J. Brazier, member, and Philip P. Car- 

 penter, correspondent, were announced. 



Remarks on some Parasitic Infusoria. — Prof. Leidy remarked 

 that most of the known parasitic infusoria possessed a mouth, as 

 in those which lived free in the waters. Such is the case with the 

 species of Balantidium found in the intestinal canal of man, the 

 hog, and various batrachians ; of Nyctotherus^ found in the intes- 

 tine of frogs, several insects and myriapods ; and the Gonchoph- 

 fhirns anodontae, often found abundantly on the branchiae and 

 palpi of our Anodon fluviatilis. 



Other parasitic infusoria are not only devoid of an intestinal 

 canal as characteristic of their class, but have no mouth, and, like 

 the ta])eworras and Echinorhynchi, absorb nourishment through 

 the exterior surface of the \)Oi\x. Such is the case with the genus 

 Anoplophrya of Stein, typified by the Anoplophrya lumbrici, 

 found in the intestine of our common earthworms, as well as in 

 those of Europe. Prof. Leidy had also detected the same species 

 in the little wood-worm, Enchytraeus socialis, and had found two 

 other species, formerl}^ described by him under the names of Leu- 

 cophrys clavala and Leucophrys cochlear if or mis, in the intestine 

 of Lumhriculus limosiis and L. tenuis. 



Recently in dissecting the fresh-water snail, Paludina decisa, 

 while examining the branchiae he observed several individuals of an 

 Anoplophrya moving actively, as if in antagonism with the ciliary 

 motion of the branchial plates. Seeking the source of the little 

 creatures he found that they came from the rectum of the Fnlu- 

 dina. In examining other individuals of this snail he observed 

 that some were free, others were infested with few, and souie with 

 multitudes of the infusorian. In several instances the Anojilo- 

 phryas were so abundant as to resemble in their crowded conditiou 




260 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [187Y. 



a mass of writhing worms, actually distending the portion of the 

 intestine the^^ occupied. The species appears to be an iinde- 

 scribed one, and is interesting from its comparative!}' large size. 

 It was named and described as follows : — 



Anoplophrya vermicularis Body cylindrical, slightly taper- 

 ing posteriori}', rounded at the extremities, or subacute behind ; 

 flattened at the anterior extremity ; translucent white, finelj' 

 striated longitudinall}', uniformly clothed with short cilia ; inter- 

 nall}' finely granular, with a longitudinal cylindrical nucleus occu- 

 pying nearly the length of the axis, and with from twenty to 

 thirty contractile vesicles, mostl}' arranged in one, but often in 

 two longitudinal series. Lengtli from two-fifths to one-half a 

 millimetre ; breadth in front .044 to .048 mm., behind .032 to .04 

 mm. 



Besides the movements of progression induced by the cilia, the 

 animal wriggles in a sigmoid manner and even doubles on itself. 

 The contractile vesicles may contract more or less successively to 

 mere points, but apparently at no time entirely disappear, and they 

 may enlarge to double their usual size. The axial nucleus is at 

 first barely perceptible, but becomes very obvious as the animal 

 approaches dissolution. 



Incidentally Prof. Leidy also stated that AKjndogaster conchi- 

 cola, so common in the pericardium of Anodonta and Unio, he had 

 also found in one instance in the oviduct of Paludina decisa. 



June 19. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Nineteen members present. 



Remarks on the Seventeen-year Locust, the Hessian Fly, and a 

 Chelifer. — Prof. Leidy remarked that he had returned last even- 

 ing from a short visit to Easton. lie stated that the Seventeen- 

 year Locust, Cicada septendecim, had made its appearance in the 

 vicinit}' of that town. He further stated that the wheat in the 

 same locality was seriouslj^ affected by tiie Hessian FI3', Cecido- 

 myia deslructor, which has now passed into the pupariiim stage. 

 In one field examined half the crop was destroyed b}' the insect. 

 He further remarked that his little daughter brought to him an 

 Elater, Alaus ocidatus, and, on her account professing to attach 

 some interest to a common insect, in examining it with more than 

 usual attention, he was surprised to find concealed beneath the 

 elytra six Chelifers. He was not aware whetlier the Elater was 

 commonly infested in this manner. In another specimen subse- 

 quently found, there were no Chelifers. The J3ook-scorpion, C. 

 mnseorutn, appears not to be common with us, as he rarel}' met 

 with it. He had occasionally met with another species, perhaps 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 261 



C. cancroides^ attached to the House-fly. The Chelifer of the 

 Elater is different from eitlier of those just named, and is perhaps 

 an nndescribed species. Its characters are as follows: — 



Chelifer alius — Bod}"^ in general chestnut-brown ; the pedi- 

 palps and the dorsal shield of the cephalothorax being darkest ; 

 the abdomen lightest, and in the largest individuals, probably 

 females, whitish with transverse dorsal and ventral bands of brown. 

 Body with the sides nearly parallel, but widening slightl\' poste- 

 riori}' ; being widest near the termination of the abdomen, except 

 in the largest female, in which it is widest near the middle of the 

 abdomen. Maxillary palps shorter, or not longer than the body; 

 intermediate joints of the same about twice the length of their 

 thickness. Length of bod^' from 1^ to '2\ mm.; length of pedi- 

 palps from H to \^^ mm. All parts are hairy, but the abdomen 

 of the largest ones is less so than in the others. 



The species bears much resemblance in form and color to the 

 C. Beussii, Koch. It also resembles the G. americanus^ De Geer, 

 but does not possess the knob on the penultimate joint of the 

 pedipalp. 



June 26. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Nineteen members present. 



The Birth of a Rhizopod. — Prof. Leidy remarked that while it 

 was a matter of common observation that the naked Ilhizopods, 

 like Amoeba^ and Actinophrys^ multiply by division, the manner 

 in which the test-beariug forms were produced was not so obvious. 



Many instances are recorded in which observers, beginning with 

 Le Clerc, who first described a Difflugia^ have noticed pairs of 

 individuals attaciied b}^ the mouths of their tests. In these 

 instances the animals have generall}' been supposed to be in copu- 

 lation, or conjugation as it is commonly called, and perhaps such 

 is often the case. It has also been repeatedly noticed in many 

 cases that of the two individuals in conjugation one was somewhat 

 smaller and more delicate, and if it were a colored species, it was 

 paler than the other. Little significance usually has been given 

 to this difference. 



Claparede and Lachman (Etudes sur les Infusoires, 1859, 445) 

 have viewed such cases of the supposed conjugation of Arcella, as 

 simpl\' the formation of a new test to accommodate the contents 

 of an old one which had become too small. 



Biitschli (Archiv f. Mikr. Anat. 18T5, 459), after observing the 

 suj)posed conjugation of Arcella^ noticed within the test free 

 moving Amoebee. These he supposed were the brood of the for- 

 mer, but after having seen them escape from the test, he failed to 

 trace their further course. 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



Cienkowski recentl}^ (Archiv f. Mikr. Anat. 187fi, 41) described 

 the mode of multiplication of ChlamydopJwi/s stercorea^ in which 

 he observed the animal to protrude from its test a mass of sar- 

 code, which, assuming the size, form, and structure of the parent, 

 became detached from it as an independent individual. He 

 remarks that this procedure for Rhizopods is not new, and has 

 been indicated b}' Cohn and others, in ArceUae, as copulation. 



Prof. Leid}' continued: I have repeatedly observed difierent spe- 

 cies of Difflugia, Hyrdosphenia^ Nebela^ Eugb/pha, Trinema^ Cy- 

 phoderia, Arcella^ etc., in what has been supposed to be the con- 

 dition of conjuoation, and have often watched them carefully to 

 learn the results of the process. I have noticed that one indi- 

 vidual engaged in the process is often smaller and paler than the 

 other, but frequently also the two were alike in all respects. Be- 

 tween the attached .individuals I have observed a fusion of the 

 contents, sometimes a rapid transference of the contents from one 

 to the other test and back again, and at others a sort of circula- 

 tion or flowing of the contents in a circle from one to the other 

 test. After se])arntion of the tests usually nothing further was 

 observed. In one instance I saw two small Ditflugians conjoined 

 with the mouth of a larger, all of the same form ; and in another 

 instance I saw three small individuals of Diffiugia spiralis in the 

 same manner conjoined with one large one of the same species. 



I have long sought for the mode of multiplication of the test- 

 covered Rhizopods, but thus far with little success. It appears 

 as if the diflferent forms with which we meet are always mature, 

 and rarely are individuals seen with the ordinary' characters which 

 distinguish young from adult animals. 



Recently I observed a pair of conjoined individuals of Euglypha 

 alveolafa, which in their procedure appeared to coincide with the 

 mode of multiplication of Chlamydophrys stercorea,, as described 

 by Cienkowski. One of the EugJyphce was one-seventh of a milli- 

 metre long (0.14 mm. long. ; 0.068 mm. in the short diameter), and 

 had four long spines diverging from the fundus of the test. This 

 was replete with the contents, including the usual large nucleus ; 

 and it presented no perceptible interval between the mass of sar- 

 code and the interior surface of the test. The sarcode was min- 

 gled throughout with particles of food, and also included a large 

 Naoiculn. The food was not collected in balls contained in vacu- 

 oles, but was diffused through the sarcode, from the mouth to the 

 fundus of the test, imparting to it a brownish hue. The globular 

 nucleus measured ^^Ih of a millimetre. 



Closely adherent to the mouth of the larger or parent EugJypha 

 was the smaller or younger one, little more than half the size of 

 the parent (measuring 0.08 mm. long, and O.OG mm. wide). The 

 young EugJypha had the fundus somewhat abruptly narrowed and 

 acute, and had projecting from it the same number of spines as in 

 the parent test. The peculiar structure of the test was apparent, 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 263 



but appeared less extended Qr unfolded. The contents filled the 

 test, and consisted of clear, colorless, finely' granular protoplasm 

 without any mixture of food and without a nucleus. 



Such was the appearance of the conjoined Eugh/pJise, parent and 

 offspring, at the commencement of the observation, at 65 o'clock 

 in the morning. 



Closely watching the pair, the 3'Oung Euglypha was noticed 

 slowly to enlarge, and the brownish matter of the parent sarcode 

 gently flowed into and became graduall,y diffused with the pre- 

 viously clear, colorless sarcode of the child. The fundus of the 

 latter expanded and became obtusely rounded, like that of the 

 parent. The large nucleus of this disappeared, or became so 

 comi)letely obscured as not to be visible. For some time there 

 was no further very perceptible change within either test. 



An hour from the commencement of the observation the 3^oung 

 Euglypha had nearly acquired the size, shape, and appearance of 

 the parent, and it measured 0.112 mm. long, and 0.064 ram. 

 broad. Now commenced an active circulation, a cyclosis, of the 

 contents of the two tests, resulting in a thorough admixture. The 

 sarcode flowed continuously from the parent on one side through 

 the mouths into the child and back again on the other side. Both 

 tests were replete with one continuous mass of brown, granular 

 sarcode, without nucleus or contractile vesicles, but with the 

 Navicula, which remained within the parent. During the circu- 

 lation of the sarcode, two of the spines, with the circular scale at 

 their base, became detached from the young Euglyplia. The cir- 

 culation ceased. At 7^ o'clock I first observed the appearance of 

 a contractile vesicle, 0.016 mm. in diameter, at the fundus of both 

 animals. The vesicle collapsed and reappeared in two, three, or 

 four, each again successively collapsing. With the appearance of 

 the contractile vesicles the contiguous sarcode began to clear up, 

 the brownish matter accumulating iu advance of the usual posi- 

 tion of the nucleus when present. 



At this time the young Euglypha measured 0.116 mm. long, and 

 0.064 mm. broad. 



The sarcode of the parent now contracted at the middle, leaving 

 a space between it and the test. The same change occurred in the 

 child. The sarcode of the parent next cleared up in the vicinity 

 of the mouth, then separated from that of the oftspring, and 

 retracted a short distance within the mouth. 



At 5 minutes to 8 o'clock the two Euglyphse bent slightlj'^ from 

 side to side, protruded delicate pseudopods, and in two minutes 

 afterwards were completely' separated with their mouths directed 

 downward, and their fundi turned towards my e^'e. 



Half an hour after separation, a pale nucleus had made its 

 appearance in both individuals occupjdng the usual position, and 

 measuring 0.028 mm. in diameter. Two or more contractile vesi- 

 cles disappeared and reappeared around the position of the 




2()i PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18'77. 



nucleus. While the parent retained the original size, the young 

 Eughjxjha was 0.12 mm. long, b}' 0.064 mm. broad. 



From this observation of the mode of multiplication of Eugly- 

 X)ha, coupled with that of Cienkowski on the multiplication of 

 Chlamydophrys, it may be inferred that all the test-bearing Rhi- 

 zopods multiply in a similar manner. 



The well-fed and replete Rhizopod rapidly protrudes from its 

 test half its sarcode, which assumes the form and constitution of 

 the parent and then separates from it. It is the division of the 

 sarcode mass, as in an Amoeba, with the development of a new 

 test upon the extruded portion. In forms like Hyalosphenia, 

 Euglypha, and Arcella, the peculiar test is a production from the 

 ectosarc. Without having observed the process, I suspect that 

 the species oi Difflugia in the act of multiplication protrude their 

 offspring mass of sarcode among particles of sand, which at once 

 adhere and build up the strong wall of their test. 



The mode of multiplication of the test-covered Rhizopods re- 

 minds one of the mode of production by division of the Desmids, 

 and, in observing the process of production of the Euglypha, I 

 was forcibly struck with its resemblance to the mode of produc- 

 tion of Arthrodesmus octocornis. The production of the young 

 Rhizopod would correspond with the production of a half cell of 

 a Desmid. 



The mode of production of Rizopods, as indicated, suggests 

 the probable mode of multiplication of the chambers of tlie Fo- 

 raminifera. Masses of sarcode, successively larger and larger, 

 may from time to titae be quickly protruded to form the succes- 

 sively larger and larger chambers. The walls of the chambers of 

 the calcareous forms may be developed like the chitinous wall of 

 an Arcella upon the protruded mass of sarcode, and the particles 

 of sand of the arenaceous forms may become adherent in the same 

 manner as is suspected to be the case in Difflugia. 



In this connection it has occurred to me that just as the sarcode 

 mass of a Rhizopod, previous to division, will apparently suddenly 

 grow or expand to nearly double the size, perhaps also in this 

 mode in many tissues of the higher animals we may have a simi- 

 lar procedure in the reproduction of cells. Perhaps in this way 

 the deep cells of the epidermis may give rise to the next series 

 above, or the old ones may be displaced by extension of the pro- 

 toplasmic mass below. 



After observing the birth of a Eiiglypha, I collected material 

 rich in Rhizopods, and spent much time in searching for others 

 in the act of reproduction. 



In some water squeezed from sphagnum collected near Swarth- 

 more College, there were abundance of the Difflugian, which I 

 have named Nehda flahellulum, with fewer individuals of Nehela 

 numala. They were all replete with food, and in most cases the 

 tests so well occupied by the sarcode as to leave no perceptible 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 2G5 



interval. Incidentally it may be observed that when a Difflugian 

 discharges all its food or the remains of it and is some time de- 

 prived of sustenance, the sarcode mass becomes reduced so as to 

 cccui)}^ but a small portion of the space within the test to which 

 it is then attached by long threads of the ectosarc. Having ob- 

 served an individual of Nebela numata with a small bull)Ous mass 

 of sarcode projecting from the mouth, I Avatched it closely. In the 

 course of one hour and three-quarters the protruded sarcode had 

 gradually enlarged and assumed the form and nearl}'^ the size of 

 the test. Half an hour later the sarcodic mass suddenly burst, 

 leaving detached from the Nehela test two large and clear glo- 

 bules of protoplasm, and separately the mass of granular matter, 

 remains of the food, tliat had occupied the entosarc. Later, the 

 two globules of protoplasm appeared shrivelled, and the Nehela 

 test contained only some dirt, part of the remains of the food 

 which had occu])ied the entosarc. 



Later, I saw the same process nearly repeated with a Nehela 

 jlabellulam. This measured a tenth of a millimetre broad, with a 

 fraction less in length, and when first noticed had a mass of pro- 

 truding protoplasm about one-thirtieth of a millimetre in diameter. 

 Three hours subsequentl}^ tlie latter had separated from the mouth 

 of the test, and had acquired nearly the size and form of the Ne- 

 hela. In this condition it remained another hour, and shortly 

 afterwards appeared shrivelled and dead. The Nehela test ap- 

 peared to be em])t3' of sarcode and contained only dirt, apparently 

 the remains of the food which had occupied the entosarc. 



Hcrtwig and Lesser (Archiv f. Mikr. Anat. 1874, PI. III., figs. 

 8 B. C.) represent the same condition in Lecythium hyalinum as 

 the result of dissolution. 



Biitschli mentions a nearly similar occurrence with an Arcella. 

 He sa3'S that after the conjugation of a pair, he observed one of 

 the animals with a large portion of the protoplasm protruded. 

 Later, this la}' near the Arcella as a clear circular plate of the 

 same size, but without mouth or structure. The protoplasm had 

 withdrawn into the test, and, later, both appeared decomposed. 



These last cases ma}' have been abortive attempts at reproduc- 

 tion, ending in dissolution. 



During the recent observations to detect the mode of multipli- 

 cation of Rhizopods, I found an Arxella vulgaris which contained 

 between the central sarcodic mass and the test four oval bodies. 

 These, at first glance, I thought were 3'oung Arcellae, but dis- 

 covered that they were eggs, and, watcliing tliem for several days, 

 they were seen to develop Rotifers. They were prevented from 

 escaping from the test by the sarcode mass of the Arcella^ and 

 finally all died together. 



On the Velocity of Infinite Fall.—VvoL Pliny E. Chase re- 

 marked that in his studies of the influence of planetary centres 

 18 




266 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [18T7. 



of oscillation, orbital collision, vis viva, harmonic nodes, and 

 luniiuons undulation, his attention had been lately directed to 

 Ennis's views' respecting tlie influence of the velocity of infinite 



fall. In nebular condensation from r to — , the increase of radial 



n 



velocity is (n/?i — l)\/2gr; the circular-orbital velocity at 



— ^zjfiar- therefore the increment of radial velocity would be 



^ 2 



sufficient to produce orbital velocit3' when n=z — =11.656854. 



If M==raodulus, or the present light of the sun's homogeneous 

 luminiferous atmosphere, there appears to have been four trans- 

 formations of uniform into variable velocit}', since the nebular 

 rupture of the nearest fixed star, a Centauri. For rt*i\l = 214289, 

 earth's mean distance being taken as the unit. The estimates for 

 the distance of a Centauri, vary between 211400 and 231200. 

 Five rupturing condensations from a Centauri, bring us to earth; 

 and single rupturing falls from Xeptune, Uranus, Saturn, and 

 Jupiter, bring us, respectively, to the Asteroids, Mars, Venus, and 

 Mercury. The following table exhibits the accordance between 

 theoretical and observed positions : — 



Rev. Charles F. Thomas was elected a member. 

 The following paper was ordered to be published : 



' "Origin of the Stars." 



2 s. secular ; p. perihelion ; a. aphelion. 









& 



0-^ft^0m. 



< 



o 



O 



w 



CO 



pq 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 267 



ADDITIONAL NOTE ON BASSARICYON GABBII. 

 BY JOEL ASAPH ALLEN. 



About a year since, in the Proceedings of the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia,' I described and gave figures 

 of the skull of Bassaricyo7i Gabhii, a new Procj'onid, and pointed 

 out its distinctive cranial characteristics. At that time the skin, 

 belonging to the same individual as the skull, had been accident- 

 ally mislaid, and could not then be found. Since that time, in 

 re-arranging the collections at the National Museum, it has come 

 to light, and has been kindlj- forwarded to me for description by 

 Professor Spencer F. Baird. As stated in the original descrip- 

 tion of the species, the onlj' specimens thus far known to natural- 

 ists consists of the skin and skull of a single individual collected 

 in Costa Rica b}^ Mr. William M. Gabb, during his recent survey 

 of that Republic. The skull indicated a form widel}' distinct, 

 generically, from an}^ other known Procyonid, presenting several 

 features of resemblance to Bassaris. In external form, however, 

 it proves to be much like Sasua, though very much smaller, and 

 with a quite different pattern of coloration. The skin has been 

 finely mounted by Professor Ward, of Rochester, N. Y., and offers 

 the following characters (Plate 2) : — 



Nose produced, as long or longer than in Kasua, and of similar 

 form ; ears rather small, rounded, about an inch in length, and 

 about as broad as long; claws large and strong, moderatel}'- 

 curved and pointed, graduall}- tapering to the end, those of the 

 fore-feet nearh^ an inch in length — much longer and less curved 

 than those of the hind-feet ; tail long, the vertebrae alone fully 

 one-half the length of the head and body. General color of the 

 body brownish-black, with the tips of the hairs rusty -3'ellow,espe- 

 cialh^ over the thoracic portion of the dorsal surface. Nose and 

 chin grajish-white, this color extending back in a narrow streak 

 along each side of the nose to behind the eye, the streaks being 

 separated b}- a narrow band of black ; the graj'^ of the chin also 

 extends posteriorly on either side to beyond the angle of the 

 mouth ; a small whitish spot below the eye and another on the 



' Description of a new generic type {Bnsxaricyon) of Procyonid(e, from 

 Costa Rica. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1876, pp. 20-23, pi. I. 




268 PEOOEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1817. 



cheek ; also an indistinctly defined area of whitish on the sides 

 of the neck, immediately in front of the shoulder ; throat and 

 breast pale yellowish-brown, varying to grayish-brown, much 

 lighter than the general coloration. Ears within and on the edges 

 j-ellowish-white ; externally brownish-black. Tail basally con- 

 color with the back, passing into black at the tip, wholly without 

 lighter rings, or even traces of them ; hence the coloration of the 

 tail is entirely different from that met with in Nasua and Procyon. 

 The pelage is rather full and soft, and brownish beneath the sur- 

 face. The long hairs are, many of them, faintly tipped with pale 

 rusty; these rusty tips are most numerous over the anterior half 

 of the back, where they are also longer and of a lighter or more 

 golden tint. The ventral surface of the body is scarcely lighter 

 than the back. Size nearly- that of Mustela Pennanti. Length 

 from the tip of the nose to the e^^e, 3.01 (inches); to" ear, 5.00 ; to 

 occiput, 5.G0 ; to base of tail, 21.00; tail vertebrae, 11.25 ; tail to 

 end of hairs, 12.75 ; fore-foot, 3.00 ; hind-foot, 3.85. 



In general form, especiall}^ in the long slender nose, and some- 

 what in the pictura of the face, this species bears considerable 

 resemblance to Nasiia, much more resembling the species of this 

 genus than those of Procyon. The claws, however, are much 

 longer and more attenuated, and the general form of the body is 

 slenderer and the tail longer. In dentition and cranial charac- 

 ters, however, this species differs widely in nearly every detail 

 from any other known form of the family. 



The specimen here described and figured is a fully adult (in fact, 

 quite aged, as shown by the skull and dentition) female. Tala- 

 manca, Costa Rica (Gabb). 




ISTY.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 269 



July 3. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in tlie chair. 

 Fifteen members present. 



Protovermiculite^ a Neio Mineral Species. — Professor Geo. A. 

 KoNiG described a micaceous mineral from Magnet Cove, Ark., to 

 which he gave the name Protovermiculite, in preference to that 

 of Hydrophilite, a name already existing in the list of mineralogic 

 synonj-ms. The mineral occurs in large foliated plates, loose in 

 tile soil, and also in smaller prismatic crystals, with Appatite in 

 the black garnet, of the same locality. The structure is strongly 

 micaceous, the habitus hexagonal ; but optically biaxial, and 

 hence, as all biaxial micas, probabl}^ monosy metric. The angle of 

 the optical axis is very small, the hyperbolas touching each other. 

 Thin laminffi are slightly flexible, though without elasticity. 

 Cleavage is less marked than in micas generally. The color is 

 grayish-green in the interior of the plates, 3-ellowish-silvery to 

 bronze color on the outside. Thin laminje transmit brownish- 

 green light. Hardness a little below 2. Lustre submetallic, and 

 touch somewhat unctuous. Spec. gr. = 2.269. Before the ])low- 

 pipe it exfoliates slightly, and fuses at 4 to a black glass. Yields 

 much water in the closed tube. Xo characteristic reactions with 

 the fluxes. Strong sulphuric acid attacks the powdered mineral 

 vehementl}^, causing complete decomposition, while flocculent silica 

 separates ; hydrochloric acid also efl"ects decomposition. The 

 finely pulverized mineral, placed in an air-tight space over oil of 

 vitriol, loses 20.3 per cent, of water in 24 hours, when the weight 

 remains constant; the water is reabsorbed in less than one hour 

 in contact with the atmosphere. A larger quantity of water is 

 not absorbed, even when placed in a saturated atmosphei'e. There 

 seems to be a ground for this behavior, although hidden at pi-e- 

 sent. Why are other micaceous minerals, much more cleavable 

 than the vermiculites, and furnished with more capillary spaces, 

 not at all hygroscopic ? It may be supposed that a force of attrac- 

 tion other than a mere physical or rather mechanical one must 

 exist in the latter. However, the author is in accord with Prof. 

 J. P. Cooke, Jr.'s, views regarding the cause of exfoliation in 

 vermiculite minerals and crystals of artificial compounds. (Am. 

 Acad., Boston, 1874.) Prof. Cooke attributes exfoliation to the 

 escape of the water of crj^stallization causing the structure of a 

 mineral to break up. Some substances loose their water of cr3'S- 

 tallization without forcible means, over sulphuric acid, for instance, 

 and their structure is not broken up ; 3'et they do not reabsorb 

 the lost water. Sodium carbonate and the sulphates RSO^-f 12 aq 




270 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[18Y7. 



maj' be cited in this connection. Evidently' there is here a broad 

 field for studj' of the underlying laws. Still Prof. Cooke's hypo- 

 thesis is accepted for the present, as far as it regards the vermi- 

 culites. The present case of Protovermiculite gives it support. 

 Here are two micas, presenting, as will be shown further on, an 

 identical composition, qualitatively and quantitativel}-, having 

 nearly equal quantities of water. Exposed to strong heat the 

 one increases its volume tenfold by exfoliation, the other hardly 

 doubles it. But when it is found that the former retains over 

 oil of vitriol 11 per cent, of water, whilst the latter only retains 

 3.36 per cent, under the same conditions, their differing behavior 

 may be accounted for to a certain extent, on the assumption that 

 this "water is essential to the structure; the remaining water being 

 accidental moisture. 



Composition of the Protovermiculite was found to be in several 

 analj'ses (the greenish part differs from the silver-white or bronze 

 only by a few tenths of per cent, of ferrous oxide) : — 



100.51 



Dividing with 0.184 (a1 -|- Fe) into the other atomic quotients, 

 the ratio is obtained : — 



Si : M : Mg : O : H^O = 3.01 : 1.00 : 3.989 : 11.918 : 0.983 - 



corresponding absolutely with the symbol — 



R. 



VI IT I 



The mica from Culsagee, North Carolina, described by Prof. 

 Cooke (loco cit.), as Cidsageeite, is composed as follows, according 

 to closel}' agreeing analyses by himself, Dv. Thos. M. Chatard 

 and the author (F. A. Genth, Corundum, Proc. Am. Philos. Soc. 

 of Philadelphia, 18T8), and after deducting the water lost over 

 sulphuric acid ; — 



Protovermiculite 

 (Konig) after treat- 

 ment over SO4H,. 



41.62 

 18.60 



Culsageeite (Cooke). 



SiOj 



Al.,03 



F.O3 



FeO 



MgO 



11,0 



37.58 

 19.73 

 5.95 

 0.58 

 25.13 

 11.09 



7.25 



0.71 



26.90 



4.20 




ISYT.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 271 



The ratio of Culsageeite corresponds closely to the symbol — 

 R3 R Sis O12 + 3H,0. 



It might seem that a difference of two molecules of water were 

 not sufficient basis for a separation into two species. Yet when 

 the important role which this water plays in the process of exfo- 

 liation is considered, and that Culsageeite exfoliates about ten 

 times stronger than Protovermiculite, with an otlierwise identical 

 composition, the autlior is of opinion that strict science requires 

 a separation. The name was chosen to indicate the imperfect 

 vermiculation as compared with the other members of this group. 



On the atomic ratio of Jefferisite, this most characteristic ver- 

 miculating mineral, there existed some uncertainty in the mind of 

 the author, since the analyses made by Prof. Brush, Dr. Chatard, 

 and himself do not quite agree, and jield atomic quotients quite 

 unsatisfactor3'. In connection with the above investigation it was 

 thought important to analyze the West Chester mineral once more, 

 with the greatest care possible. 0.5 gr. of the finely pulverized 

 mineral was placed in an air-tight bell-jar over sulphuric acid. In 

 two days it lost 0.054 gr. or 10.8 per cent. It was kept for eight 

 days longer, and weighed every second da}', the weight remained 

 absolutely constant. The same substance was then allowed to 

 reabsorb the hygroscopic water by exposure to the air, and after- 

 wards placed in an air-bath at a temperature of 106 C° for 18 hours, 

 when it only lost 8.6 per cent. 



The air-drj^ substance gave — 



Si = 0.555 



Al = 0.1690)0^^3 



Ve = 0.0403 K" 



Fe = 0.0210 )„<, 



Mff = 0.5042 /"•^"■'" 



up = 0.5G1 (dried over SO^H^) 



H,0 = 0.683 (dried at 106 C.*^) 

 100.59 



Dividing by 0.2153 (Al -f Pe) we obtain — 



Si : R : R : H^O = 2.58 : 1.00 : 2.44 : 2.91 : (3.17) 

 = 5.16 : 2.00 : 4.88 : 5.82 : (6.34). 



(1) Brush's analysis (Am. Journ. Sci., 1861); (2) Dr. Thos. 

 M. Chatard's anal3'sis {Genth on Corundum I. c. siqva); and (3) 

 the author's {ibidem) give the following ratios : — 



Si : R : R 



Brush 5.228 : 2 : 4.416 



Chatard 5.412 : 2 : 4.928 



Konig, 1st 5.054 : 2 : 4.736 



"2d 5.16 : 2 : 4.88 



Prof. J. P. Cooke deduced from the first ratio the formula 

 R^ R, Si. 0,(,, omitting the nearl}- half atom of R in excess of 4. This 

 makes the mineral a true orthosilicate, and is quite satisfactor}'. 

 But does the analytical result justify such a course? Only on the 




272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [187T. 



supposition that tlie analyzed material was heterogeneous. On the 

 Other hand, the two anaij'ses bj' the author, made five years apart, 

 and on quite different material, agreeing so well among themselves, 

 point very strongly to the fact that instead of omitting the half 

 atom, it has to be increased to a whole atom, and the formula of 

 Jefferisite is therefore to be written — 



R. R, Sij Oji + 6H,0 (Kouig), 



instead of — 



R, K., Sij 0,Q+ 6H2O (Cooke). 



By doubling the molecules of Culsageeite and Protovermiculite 

 their close affinity to Jefferisite is still more perceptible : — 



Jefferisite ^5^2815 0,i + 6H,0 



Culsageeite Rs K, Sig O24+ 6n20 



Protovermiculite . . . . Rg ®2 ^'h O-ii"!- ^HjO. 



Jefferisite and Culsageeite exfoliate with equal energy ; the au- 

 thor is inclined to write the formulas of the three species in the 

 above manner as a consequence, on mechanical principles. 



July 10. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twent3^-four members present. 



The death of David S. Brown was announced. 



July 17. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Thirteen members present. 



The resignation of Dr. Henry H. Smith, as a member, was read 

 and accepted. 



July 24. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Nine members present. 



Note on Color Variation in Mammals. — ^Ir. J. A. Ryder called 

 attention to the fact that many animals, when long domesticated, 

 as the horse, ox, dog, and cat, were frequcntl}- asymmetrically 

 colored. Horses were often seen with one white foot, or in ex- 

 treme cases with three, wliile the white color sometimes extended 

 further up the limb upon one side than upon the other. He had 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 273 



freqiieiitl}^ noticed the same sort of irregularity' in the coloration 

 of cattle. It was also noticeable in a very marked degree in rab- 

 bits and guinea-pigs, and he had recently seen some goals that 

 were exceedingl}' asymmetrical in the disposition of color areas. 



In studying color variation among feral animals he had noticed 

 that such variations, so far as his observations had extended, were 

 invariably S3'rametrical. In the case of a raccoon, in the collec- 

 tion of the Zoological Society of Philadelphia, where the A'aria- 

 tion from the t^^pical coloration of the species was great, the color 

 areas were disposed symmetrically in the same manner as in the 

 ordinary specimens that were its companions in tlie same cage. 

 The difference was onl}'- in the shade, this specimen being a rich 

 brownish-3'ellow, except the annuli around the tail and the lateral 

 bands on the face, which were of a considerably deeper hue. The 

 nose, feet, and eyes in the ordinary specimens are black ; in this 

 specimen all the dermal structures had assumed a much lighter 

 tint, nearly a flesh color. The iris has assumed a remarkable- 

 different tint from the jet black of the others, and it is a good 

 illustration of the correlation in coloration of the pelt and e^-es, 

 without at the same time having reached total albinism. In a 

 specimen of Lepus sylvaficus in the Academy's collection, said 

 to be from New Jersey, the fur is cream colored, and very long 

 and soft, but perfectly s^'mmetrical and uniform in color, and in a 

 specimen marked L. audubonii, from California, there is a symme- 

 trically disposed median white band running from the parietal 

 region to the muzzle. In rats, nearly white, the color areas were 

 also found to be very nearly the same on both sides, and in two 

 specimens of ArvicoJa, one with a white head was found to be 

 colored senumetricaliy, and the other with white head and shoulders 

 and white patches on the flanks and outer sides of thighs was also 

 colored s^'mmetrically. In specimens of Virginia deer in the 

 collection of the Academy, where white and the usual color were 

 separate, the same symmetry was noted as in the other feral speci- 

 mens mentioned above. 



In many domestic animals there is a most decided tendency to 

 preserve, more or less, the symmetry of coloration of the ances- 

 tral t3'pe, but domestication seems to be at the bottom of the great 

 variabilitjr and ase^imetr^^ of color of animals brought under its 

 influence. The camel, however, seems to be an exception. 



The following summarj- of the foregoing facts was offered : — 



1. That bilateral se^nmetry of coloration is interfered with in 

 some way by domestication. 



2. That where variation in color takes place in feral animals, 

 they are invariabl}^, so far as ol)served, symmetricalh' colored. 



3. That it is possible that the degx'ee of asymmetry is an indi- 

 cation of the length of time that domestication has been operative. 




274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



July 31. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Seventeen members present. 



Poisonous Properties of the Legumiuosse. — Dr. Rothrock 

 remarked that hitherto we had by common consent regarded the 

 plants of the order Leguminosse as, on the whole, rather innocu- 

 ous. During the past few years a number of its representatives 

 have been attracting attention on account of tlieir supposed agency 

 in poisoning cattle and horses in our southwestern territories. It 

 is true that none of these save the Sophora^ to be mentioned last, 

 have been subjected to a severe scientific test by ph3^siological 

 experiments ; still the main facts alleged are doubtless to be de- 

 pended upon. 



The veteran botanist of the Pacific Coast, Dr. A. Kellogg, has 

 a short article on the subject in the Proceedings of the California 

 Academy, vol. vi. p. 3, which goes over most of the ground. It 

 is then only to give an increased circulation to the facts that he 

 alluded to them here. 



In southern Colorado, especially about Fort Garland, the ofiend- 

 ing plant is Oxytropis Lamherti^ a most variable species. At 

 first, from some of the symptoms, it was supposed that it was due 

 to something like Aconitum, but as the region was out of the 

 range of an}' considerable quantity of A. nasiUum, the only spe- 

 cies likely to be found near, and as we had no definite observations 

 on its action, attention was directed elsewhere, and the Oxytropis 

 pretty clearly fixed as the plant. The effect of this appears to be 

 long enduring; the animal becoming demented, and wasting away 

 as his fondness for the poison increases to something like the 

 opium hnbit in man. Dr. Kellogg contrasts this with the tempo- 

 rar}' effects (intoxication and stupefaction) of a southern species 

 of ^Tephrosia. During Dr. Rothrock's stay at New Camp Grant, 

 in Arizona, in 1874, it was alleged that Hosackia Purshiana was 

 producing like effects on the horses. 



In California Dr. Kellogg regards the noxious plant there as 

 Astragalus Menziesii^ Gray. And it is also asserted that Astra- 

 galus Hornii, Gray, and Astragalus lentiginosus^ Dough, are in 

 tlie same list in California. 



The general name for the disease in the animals is " Loco." 

 Among the inhabitants of the southwest it simply refers to their 

 becoming foolish. As 3'et we cannot say on what active principle 

 the effects depend; neither do we know whether it is dissipated 

 in drj'ing. It would be well if exact experiments in this direc- 

 tion could be instituted. The boundary lines between a poison 

 and a remed}* are rather those of degree than of kind, and it is 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 275 



not improbable that in those veiy plants our ph3'sicians may find 

 a means of " counteracting some tendenc}^ to death." 



Regarding Soph or a speciosa^ Benth., from Texas, our knowl- 

 edge is now well grounded, thanks to Prof. H. C. Wood, Jr., M.D. 

 He has succeeded in obtaining an alkaloid, which he names 

 Soiihoria from the bean. Its effects are not unlike those of Cala- 

 bar bean. For a full account of this see Philadelphia 3Iedical 

 Times, August 4, 1877. The Indians of Texas use the bean to 

 produce an intoxication which lasts from two to three daj's. Half 

 a bean, it is said, will induce intoxication, and a whole one may 

 lead to dangerous symptoms. 



Julia A. H. Walker was elected a member. 



August 7. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in tlie chair, 

 Sixteen members present. 



August 14. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Sixteen members present. 



A paper entitled " On Lagochila, a new genus of Catostomoid 

 Fishes," by David S. Jordan and A. W. Braj^ton, was presented 

 for publication. 



The deaths of Dwight D. Willard and Timothy A. Conrad were 

 announced. 



Influence of Magnetiam on Living Ot'gaiiisms. — A letter from 

 Dr. John Yansant, dated New Orleans, December 14, 1876, was 

 read, stating substantially that he had killed a sj^ider b}' exposing 

 it to the influence of a magnetic current. 



The animal had its vitality destroyed by the magnetism emana- 

 ting from a small steel magnet of the U shape, commonly sold in 

 the shops. The legs of the magnet were about two and a half 

 inches long by a half inch wide, and one-sixth of an inch thick, 

 the distance between the poles being about one quarter of an inch. 



He noticed a small spider actively running along the arm of his 

 chair. He brushed it off carefully with his finger and it fell upon 

 the carpet. It began to run but was somewhat impeded by the 

 roughness of the carpet. Having removed the armature he slid 

 the magnet along the carpet following after the spider until it was 

 between the poles. The animal almost instantly stopped and in a 




21G PROCEEDINGS OE THE ACADEMY OF [18TY. 



few seconds seemed to be motionless ; but at the end of two or three 

 minutes it began slowl^y to move its legs and elevate and depress 

 its head, thus touching and separating itself from one or the other 

 of the poles, but without going from between them. He did not 

 touch it. At the end of five minutes the spider was quite still. 

 After a lapse of ten minutes he covered both spider and magnet 

 with a large tumbler. At the expiration of two hours he removed 

 the glass and observed the spider with a maguifj'ing lens. It was 

 apparently dead. It was not touched during this inspection. It 

 was left in position some twelve hours longer. 



Dr. Yansant states that he has killed spiders and other small 

 animals, as worms and insects, as well as some plants, b}!- magne- 

 tism at different times during the past eight 3'ears, but never 

 before succeeded in destroying the life of a spider so quicklj^ and 

 without touching it frequently, though lightly, with the magnet 

 he used. In the opinion of Dr. Yansant this experiment demon- 

 strates that magnetism affects the functions of living beings. 



Mineralogical Notes. — Professor Geo. Aug. Konig presented the 

 result of an examination of silver ore from " Silver Islet," Lake 

 Superior. In a gangue of Calcite and some quartz one observes 

 Galenite, Sphalerite, native silver, and spots of a pinchbeck colored 

 mineral, possessing metallic lustre were observed. A picking by 

 hand of the latter Avas not possible, owing to the smallness of the 

 grains. 13}^ placing the material in dilute hj'drochloric acid, the 

 metallic minerals were left as a spong}' mass, including the 

 quartz grains ; Sphalerite could be eliminated b}' sorting. The 

 mixture was then anal^'zed with the following result : — 



99.74 

 The mineral mixture was completely decomposed by nitric acid. 

 Nickel and arsenic are in the ratio =• 2.15 : 1 equal to " Xiccolite." 

 The latter mineral is strongly cobaltiferous. The sulphur must 

 be considered to be combined with silver as Argentite. When 

 particles of the mixture, showing no Niccolite under the lens, after 

 having been flattened out and rubbed in the mortar, were then 

 dissolved in nitric acid, silver removed b}^ hydrochloric acid, the 

 filtrate gave invariabl^^ the arsenic reaction. It is highly proba- 

 ble that a ver}' basic silver arsenid is present in the ore. The 

 speaker, not being aware of an}' identification of Xiccolite from 

 Silver Islet, deemed it expedient to make this communication. 




1877.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



277 



On Strengite from Bockbridge Co., Va. — Prof. Geo. Augustus 

 KoNiG described a mineral wliicli he discovered in cavities in 

 Dufrenite. The surface of these cavities is coated with a green 

 spheroidal and radially laminated substance, greenish-j-ellow, and 

 somewhat silk}' on the fracture, which the speaker considered to be 

 Cacoxenite. On this latter substance clusters of beautiful, though 

 small, cr3'stals are seen. The}' present short prismatic forms; 

 their color varies from light pink to deep carmine red, even to- 

 wards amethystine shades ; their lustre is vivid and vitreous, and 

 their hardness slightl}^ below 4. They are transparent. A magni- 

 fying power of 2 diameters is required for a proper analj'sis of 

 the S3'mmetr3'of the crj-stals, when they dis- 

 close the shape shown in the figure. The 

 prisms are invariably terminated by a rec- 

 tangular face (often perfect]}' square) which 

 possesses adamantine lustre (o), and b}' 

 two domes (6, b) (m, m). The m faces are 

 smooth and brilliant, the b faces are striated. 

 There are two prisms, and the prismatic 

 faces (p') appear striated, but not so 

 strongl}^ as the b faces. Pyramidal faces 

 appear on some of the ci^ystals, but only 

 on one side, whilst opposite only the doma- 

 tic face m is visible. The face o in this case presents a pentagonal 

 shape. None of the crystals possessing this curious hemimorphism 

 was of measurable size. The goniometer used is one with two 

 telescopes, but the light was so feebly reflected from the minute 

 faces that no image could be obtained with the eye-piece, which, 

 therefore, was removed, and the light reflected into the eye 

 directl}'. 



A number of observations were made for every angle and the 

 mean taken, but this method was necessarily uncertain and in- 

 effective. 



Angles measured. 



p f^p = 122C 20' 



p'f^p' = 1 170 25' 



m^p = 139035' 



f^p' = 900 20' (first crystal.) 



/\, p = 90"" 5' (second crvstal.) 



b /^b = 510 



m ^m = G4P 



b f^o = 115^20' 



7n f^o = 122^ 



The symmetry of the mineral is plainlj' orthorhombic, although 

 the angle o /\}o was not found exactly' 90° b}- direct measurement ; 

 because the prismatic face is not even, but striated. The macro- 

 domatic angle m /\ m = 64° and ^m = 122°, we deduce — 



m A VI 

 (1803 — 122-) = 58°, ~Y~ = ^~° 



580 _j_ 320 = 900. 




278 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877- 



That is, the basal plane o is exactly at right angles with the main 

 axis, 



A ground form and its parameters could not be established as 

 no pyramidal faces were observed on any of the measurable 

 crystals. 



For the projection of the crj-stal one has — 



Macrodome tg. 58^ =1.603 



Brachydome tg. 04° 40' = 2.112 



Prism p' tg. 610 10'= 1.816 



Prism p tg. 58° 42' = 1.644 



Bhncpipe Characters. — In the closed tube the color of the 

 mineral turns to golden j^ellow, has a tendency to decripitate, and 

 yields water. Treated in the forceps with the oxj'dizing flame, 

 the mineral is hardl}' atFected, except the change of color, while 

 the flame colors bluish-green (phosphoric acid). In the point of 

 the reducing flame the mineral fuses at 4 to a black non-magnetic 

 glass. With the fluxes it gives only iron reaction. 



For analysis only 30.7 mgr. could be collected. After ignition 

 the reddish-brown powder was soluble in strong nitric acid. Phos- 

 phoric acid was precipitated b}^ niolybdic solution, and in the 

 filtrate the ferric iron by ammonium hydrate. The author ob- 

 tained water = 6.1 mgr., Mg,P,0. = 19.8 mgr. (P.Oj = 12 mgr.), 

 Fe^O ^ 13.0 mgr., or in per cent. — 



H,0 =19.87:18 =1.104 = 4.16 

 Pp. = .39.30 : 142 = 0.277 = 1.045 

 FeA = 42.3 : 160 = 0.265 = 1.000 



101.47 



The mineral is, therefore, Fe,P^Og 4- 4H.,0, and is identical with 

 " Strengite," described by A. Xiess (Xeues Jahrbiich f. Min. 1877, 

 p. 8). According to Xiess, Strengite occurs at the Dunsberg Limo- 

 nite mine, near Giessen in mamillary, botryoidal aggregations 

 with radially fibrous structure and drusy surfaces, rarely in single 

 crystals, possessing strong vitreous lustre, transparency, and red 

 color in all shades, especially peach blossom and carmine tints, 

 sometimes nearly colorless. The crystals present a tabular form 

 which is produced b}'^ the predominance of the macropinakoid. 

 Niess has only observed the prism, the p^'ramid, and the macropi- 

 nakoid, with indications of a macrodome. Hence the type of 

 Strengite from the only localities now known — Giessen, Hessen, 

 and Rockbridge Co., Va. — is remarkabl^^ differing. The basal 

 plane and tlie domes, so characteristic at the latter place, are 

 quite wanting at the former. But of tlie identit}' of the mineral 

 there is hardly any doubt possible. The Rockbridge variety is 

 only observed in crystals. 



Since presenting the first description to the Academy the 

 speaker examined a specimen on which there was one cr^'stal cor- 

 responding to the Skorodite type of the Giessen variety. 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 279 



August 21. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Eighteen members present. 



The Lacquer Tree. — Professor Thomas Meehan remarked that 

 he had had an extract from tlie Public Ledger sent to him, as 

 State Botanist, with the request that he would give any informa- 

 tion in his power as to the chances of the tree thriving in this 

 State. He said : — 



"The Lacquer plant, 7?/n/« vernicifera., is so much like our 

 common poison ash, R. venenata.^ and Japan trees generally do 

 so very well in this latitude, that there is no room to doubt that 

 the tree would thrive. But it is not worth while to introduce the 

 plant, as onr own poison ash has the same pi'operties in every 

 respect. The 'Lacquer' is the juice of the tree. It is at first 

 whitish, but becomes black when exposed to the air. It is 

 mixed with a small portion of oil derived from a kind of Trum- 

 pet vine, and the exact portion of oil, or the way of mixing it, is 

 supposed to be a secret possessed only by those ' in the trade' in 

 Japan. The ' Lacquer work' itself is made simply by putting 

 ver3' fine powdered charcoal on the wood before apph'ing the pre- 

 pared resin. Crude gum which I have seen from this Japan 

 poison ash is so exactl}^ like that which I have taken from our 

 own poison ash, that I have little hesitation in saying that any 

 one wishing to ivy the experiment, would do just as well with the 

 product of our own swamps as with imported trees from Japan. 



"It is well, however, to remember that both of these — our own 

 and the Japan trees — are excessively' poisonous, much more so 

 than our common poison vine. It is very friendl}^ with me, as 

 almost all these noxious plants are ; but I have known man}' per- 

 sons very badly served even by passing where the trees were." 



August 28. 

 The President, Dr. Kuschenberger, in the chair. 

 Sixteen members present. 



B. F. Lautenbach, M.D., and Frank Woodbury, M.D., were 

 elected members. 



Prof. Wm. A. Buckhout, of Centre Co., Pa., was elected a cor- 

 respondent. 



The following paper was ordered to be printed : — 




280 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[18T7. 



Fiir. 1. 



ON LAGOCHILA, A NEW GENUS OF CATOSTOMOID FISHES. 

 BY DAVID S. JORDAN AND A. W. BRAYTON. 



Diu'ino; a recent collecting tour in the Soutlieru States the 

 writers secured in the Chickamauga River, near Ringgold, 

 Catoosa Count}', Georgia, a species of Sucker, new to science, 

 which is believed to represent a new generic type. This genus, 

 for which we suggest the name Lagochila (lagocheilos, having a 

 hare-lip, in allusion to the peculiar mouth, and to the vernacular 

 name of Hare-lip Sucker), bears somewhat the same relation to 

 Ilyxostoma, and the other tj-pical Gafostommae, that the genus 

 Exoglossum bears to the tj'pical Leuciscinse. 



Lagochila lacera, Jordan and Brayton, gen. and sp. nov. 



Generic Gharacters. — Similar to Myxostoma (Pfychostomus, 

 Agassiz) except in the structure of the mouth parts. Dorsal fin 

 short; lateral line well developed; scales large, subequal; air- 

 bladder in three parts ; fontanelle between parie- 

 tal bones well developed, phar^'ngeal bones weak, 

 with numerous small teeth ; upper lip not all pro- 

 tractile, greatl}' enlarged, finely plicate; lower lip 

 longitudinally enlarged, but attenuated, and singu- 

 lar in form. It consists of two elongated and nar- 

 row lobes, separated by a narrow deep fissure, 

 which extends inward to the edge of the mandible 

 proper, which seems to be armed with a rather 

 hard or almost horny plate, about as in the genus 

 Pantosteus. The two lobes of the lip are weakl}^ 

 papillose. The lower lip is entirely separated from 

 the upper at the angles by a deep fissure. Over 

 this fissure the skin of the cheeks lies as a sort of 

 cloak ; the crease separating this skin from the 

 mouth, extending up on the sides of the muzzle. 

 The fissure between the lips extends down on the 

 skin of the under side of the head. The opercle 

 is extremely short, and the ej-e is entirely in the 

 posterior part of the head. 

 Specific Gharacters. — Head rather short — 4§ in length, conical, 

 with lengthened snout, the region between the eyes flattened and 



]. View from be- 

 low. 2., Front 

 view of mouth 

 (natural size). 




187T.J 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



281 



provided with prominent mucous ridges; cheeks and lower part 

 of the head rather swollen ; greatest length of opercle not more 

 than that of eye. E^'e medium, contained twice in snout, 4^ in 

 length of side of head. 



Body rather elongate, not much elevated or compressed, the 

 form being intermediate between that of Afi/xostoma cervina and 

 that of M. duqueanii. Position and form of tins as usual in the 

 genus Myxostoma^ the dorsal rather short and not especially 

 elevated, its free border rather more concave than usual. 



Fin rays : D. I. 12, A. I. 7, Y. 9. Scales rather large, but little 

 crowded forwards, 5-45-5. Lateral line very distinct, nearly 

 straight. 



Color somewhat olivaceous above, sides and belly more silver}^; 

 lower fins faintly orange. 



Length of types respectively 10 and 4 and 3 inches. 



Hab. Streams tributary to the southern bend of Tennessee 

 River, in the States of Georgia, Tennessee, and Alabama. Fish- 

 ermen tell us that this is the commonest and most "valued species 

 of sucker found in that region, and that it is everywhere known 

 hy the name of "Hare-lip Sucker," and sometimes of "Split- 



Fis. 3. 



mouth" or "Split-lip Sucker." It frequents rather deep waters, 

 and is often taken with the hook. We obtained but two speci- 

 mens in the Chickamauga, and one in Elk River at Estill Springs, 

 in Tennessee. A minute examination of the bones of the head 

 and jaws is desirable, but we have thought it best to defer it 

 19 




282 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



until more specimens are obtained, not wishing to mutilate the 

 original tj^pes. 



The drawings accompanying this paper were made from the 

 larger of the type specimens. 



The genera of Catostomidee maj' be thus compared : — 



* Body oblong or elongate, with a short, subquadrate dorsal fin of 10 to 17 



developed rays. 

 f Mouth singular; the upper lip not protractile, greatly enlarged; the 

 lower lip developed as two separate lobes ; the lower jaw provided 

 W'ith a sheath (LajocMliiicB). 

 a. Air bladder in tliree parts ; scales large, subequal ; pharjmgeal bones 

 and teeth ordinary ; fontanelle well-developed ; lateral line pre- 

 sent. Lagochila, 1. 

 ft Mouth normal, the lower lip undivided, either tuberculate or plicate 

 [Catostomince). 

 b. Air bladder in three parts ; lateral line present ; fontanelle pre- 

 sent ; scales large, subequal. 

 c. Pharyngeal bones verj' broad and strong ; the lower 7 to 10 

 teeth on each side, greatly enlarged and truncate ; the teeth 

 on the upper part of the bone small, as usual in the family. 



Placopiiarynx, 2. 

 cc. Pharyngeal bones not especially enlarged ; the teeth of the 

 usual type. JMyxostoma, 3. 



bb. Air bladder in two parts. 



d. No lateral line ; fontanelle present ; lips plicate ; no mandi- 



bulary sheath ; scales large. Ekimyzon, 4. 



dd. Lateral line well developed ; lips tuberculate. 

 e. Fontanelle distinct ; no mandibulary sheath. 

 /. Scales moderate, not crowded forwards, about equal 

 over the body ; body long and little compressed ; head 

 long and flattened, transversely concave between 

 orbits ; the physiognomy being therefore peculiar. 



IIypextelium, 5. 

 ff. Scales small ; smaller anteriorly and much crowded ; 

 head transversely convex between orbits. 



Catostomus, C. 

 ee. Fontanelle obliterated hy the union of the parietal bones ; 

 mandible with a cartilaginous sheath ; scales small. 



PANTOSTEU.S, 7. 



* Body much elongated, subcylindrical forwards ; dorsal elongate, falci- 



form, of 30 or more rays ; fontanelle obliterated by the union of the 

 parietal bones {Cycleptince). 



g. Mouth small, subinferior, with papillose lips ; scales 

 rather small. Cycleptus, 8. 




1871.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



*** Body oblong oval, compressed ; dorsal elongate, elevated in front, of 

 20 or more rays ; fontanelle present {Bubalichihyinm). 



h. Dorsal raj-s about 30 in number (24 to 33) ; anal rays 

 about ten (9 to 12) ; scales large. 

 i. Pharyngeal bones narrow, "with the teeth relatively 

 thin and weak. 

 j. Mouth small, inferior, protractile downwards ; 

 dorsal fin often greatly elevated. 



Carpiodes, 9. 

 jj. Mouth larger, subterminal, protractile forwards 

 (species of larger size, dusky colors, with 

 lower dorsal). Ichthyobus, 10. 



a. Phar^'ugeal bones strong ; the teeth comparatively 

 coarse and large, increasing in size downwards ; 

 dorsal fin moderately elevated ; mouth inferior. 



BUBALICHTHYS, 11. 



hh. Dorsal fin with about 50 rays ; anal 13 ; scales 

 moderate ; teeth as in BubalicMhys (?) (Asiatic 

 species). Myxocyprinus, 12. 




284 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1877. 



September 4, 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Fifteen members present. 



On the Bed-hug and its Allies^. — Prof. Leidy reraarkerl that it 

 was eommoiil}'^ supposed that the swallow, pigeon, and bat were 

 infested with the bed-bug, and that those animals introduced the 

 insect into houses. Packard (Guide to Stud3- of Insects, 551) 

 observes that the bed-bug " lives as a parasite on the domestic 

 birds;" and adds that a gentleman informed him "that he has 

 found a nest of swallows on a court-house in Iowa swarming with 

 bed-bugs." Westwood (Introd. ii. 475, note,) says it is certain 

 that bed-bugs "swarm in the American timber employed in the 

 construction of new houses." " In the western part of our coun- 

 try," continued Prof. L., "I frequently- heard that bed-bugs were 

 to be found at any time beneath the bark of the Cottonwood and 

 the pine. In these positions I never found one, nor have I ever 

 found the insect except in the too familiar proximity of man. 

 Keceutly, when in the West, while watching some cliff' swallows 

 passing in and out of their retort-shaped mud nests, built under 

 the eaves of a house, I was told that these nests swarmed with 

 bed-bugs, and tiiat usually people would not allow the birds to 

 build in such places, because they introduced bed-bugs into the 

 houses. Having collected a number of the bugs, as well as others 

 from the interior of the house, specimens of both of which are 

 submitted to the examination of the members, I found that while 

 the latter are true bed-bugs, Cimex lectularius, the former are of 

 a different species, the C.hirundini)^. The bugs infesting the bat 

 and pigeon have likewise been recognized as a peculiar species, with 

 the name of C. pipistrelli^ and G. columbariuay Prof. L. further 

 noticed that the habit of the G. hirundinis was similar to that of 

 C. lectuJarius in the circumstance that the bugs during the day- 

 time would secrete themselves in crevices of the boards away 

 from the nests. After sunset he had observed the bugs leave 

 their hiding-places and make their way to the nests. From these 

 observations it would appear as if the peculiar bugs of the animals 

 mentioned did not reciprocal!}' infest their hosts. 



On the Growth of Goccidus Indicus. — Mr. Ryder remarked that 

 the termini of the branches of Goccidus i7idicus, as observed in the 

 Horticultural Hall in Fairmount Park, were coiled to the left 

 about objects that came within reach. These terminal coils, which 

 simulated tendrils in form, would, if straightened out, measure 6 

 to 8 inches in length. The buds upon them appeared to be 

 aborted or rudimentary, and as soon as the coil was securely 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 285 



wound round its object of support, growth in a longitudinal direc- 

 tion in the branch in question seemed to cease ; but below the 

 proximal part of the coil, or that nearest the root, one of the fully 

 developed buds would break and continue the ascending axis, 

 which, when it had attained a length of 1 or 2 feet, would coil its 

 terminus, and stop growing lengthwise as the brancli had done 

 from which it grew. This process seemed to be repeated indefi- 

 nitely. The plant might be called a terminal twiner. Other me- 

 nispermaceous plants seemed to have a similar tendenc}', though 

 not so marked, and some were not very difterent in habit from 

 ordinary twiners, as, for example, Menispermum canadensis. 



September .11. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twentj'-three members present. 



A paper entitled " On a New Species of Helix from Texas," by 

 Wm. G. Mazyck, was presented for publication. 



September 18. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty-seven members present. 



The death of H. E. Van Rijgersraa, a Correspondent of the 

 Academ}', was announced. 



On the Distribution of Plants. — Isaac C Martindale exhibited 

 specimens of Phallus, and stated that he had noticed its reappear- 

 ance in the yard attached to his dwelling for four years. Its de- 

 velopment was very rapid ; at the time it was first noticed this 

 year it presented the appearance of a hen's egg with about one- 

 third of the surface protruding from the ground ; within twenty- 

 four hours it had more than doulvled in size, and showed some 

 signs of an opening at the upper end ; about six hours later the 

 stipe had forced its wa}' out to the extent of nearly six inches. 

 Although so offensive in odor, it attracted large numbers of files, 

 from twenty to thirty being on it at one time. He stated, as a 

 singular fact, that this species reappeared year after ^-ear in a 

 space not more than three feet in diameter ; and although plants 

 of this class produce an immense amount of spores, not more than 

 four specimens of this species had been noticed near the locality 

 on any occasion. 



In connection with the subject, Mr. Martindale further stated 

 that probablj' no class of plants have a greater amount of pollen 




286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18t7. 



in proportion to tlie number of seeds produced tban the Pines. 

 He had recently detected one tree of Finns mitis, near Camden, 

 which species he believed was gradually disappearing from this 

 section of the country ; there were but three cones on the tree, 

 which was a large one, and evidently on the decline. 



Aubrey H. Smith spoke of the disappearance of the Red Oak, 

 Quercus rubra^ from a locality in western Pennsjivania, about 

 one hundred miles from Lake Erie, that had been visited by him 

 during the past summer. He was informed that it had been quite 

 abundant there thirty or forty years ago; indeed large numbers of 

 fallen and partlj^ decaj^ed trees were still to be seen through the 

 woods. 



Mr. Martindale also stated that while a number of plants that 

 wei-e now common in the Southern States bordering on the Atlan- 

 tic coast, and of frequent occurrence in this latitude and further 

 north a few years ago, were graduall}'' disappearing from their 

 northern localities, other species, heretofore regarded exclusivel}'' 

 as southern, were extending their range to the northward. He 

 had recently collected Pluchea hifrons near Cape May, New Jer- 

 sey, a species which had not heretofore been detected in that 

 State. 



September 25. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twent3'-nine members present. 



The death of John Milton Earle, a Correspondent of the Acad- 

 emy, was announced. 



A. J. Drexel, Alexis T. Cope, Miss Clementine Cope, and Miss 

 C. E. Cope were elected members. 



The following were elected Correspondents : — 



Clarence King, of Washington, Daniel C. Eaton, of Xew Haven, 

 Count A. G. Marschall, of Vienna, Edward Yon Mojsisovics, of 

 V^ienna, Dion^^s Stur, of Vienna, Franz Toula, of Vienna, A. Bas- 

 tian, of Vienna, J. G. Rein, of Frankfurt on the Main, C. Arendts, 

 of Munich, Spiridione Brusina, of Agrara, Jos. Szabo, of Buda Pest, 

 C. Stahl, of Stockholm, Philippe de la Harpe, of Lausanne, Elisee 

 F. Reclus, of Paris, Emile Cartailhac, of Toulouse, Ernest Chan- 

 tre, of Lyon, J. J. Collenot, of Semur, Henri Coquand, of Mai*- 

 seilles, Jules Gosselet, of Lille, Edmund Hebert, of Paris, Wm. 

 Boyd Dawkins, of Manchester, Peter Martin Duncan, of London, 

 A. H. Green, of Leeds, J. W. Judd, of London, John Morris, of 

 Tjondon, Andrew Murra}', of London, AVm. Whitaker, of London, 

 and H. B. Medlicott, of Calcutta. 




18TT.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 28t 



October 2. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberqer, in the chair. 

 Thirty-two members present. 

 The death of Dr. Edw, Roemer, correspondent, was announced. 



Sensitive Sfamens in Purslane. — Mr. Thomas Meehan said the 

 stamens of Portulaca oleracea were sensitive. They expanded 

 wlien the flower opened, and, on being touched, rose slowly, 

 though with some force, and embraced the pistil. Ou being again 

 touched, they fell back to their former position. After having 

 once gone through this upward and backward movement, the}^ 

 vvould not repeat it, so ftir as his observation went. It was bet- 

 ter to use the lens to observe the motion on the growing plant in 

 the ground than on a gathered specimen. He remarked on how 

 much there was to observe in the common things around us, and 

 yet the long time it seemed to take us to discover them. About 

 thirty-five years ago, he said, lie made the discover}' of sensitive 

 stamens in the common garden Portulacas the subject of his first 

 contribution to scientific literature; and one would suppose that 

 h.e himself at least, with this hint, Avould have examined the 

 Purslane before now. He spoke of the relationship of Portu- 

 lacaceas with Cactacese. Opuntia had sensitive stamens, and with 

 the same behavior in the same organs in Poi-tulaca, essentially 

 the same viscid juice, and tendency to succulence, there was little 

 beyond an increased number and consolidation of parts in Cac- 

 tacese to distinguish them from Portulaceee. 



Emigration of Solan inn rostratinn. — Mr. Thomas Meehan ex- 

 hibited a specimen of Solanum rostratum, collected bj^ Dr. A. 

 Gattinger, of Nashville, Tennessee, from waste ground al)0ut that 

 city, where it had evidently established itself. It is a native of 

 Colorado and contiguous territor}', and is believed to be the plant 

 which originally sustained the beetle Doryphora decemlineata, 

 until it found a choicer article in the common potato. Mr. M. 

 tiiought this the first case of its l)eing found east of the Mississippi 

 River. The potato beetle had in a measure forsaken it, and it was 

 now following the beetle. 



Dimorphism in Ailantus glandnlosa. — Mr. Thomas Meehan 

 exhibited specimens of Ailantus glandulosa, gathered on the 

 grounds of .Mrs. Aaron V. Brown, of Xashville, Tenn. There were 

 but six to seven pairs of leaflets forming the entire leaf, termi- 

 nating in a pair, and not with an odd one, as in the normal form. 

 The leaflets were roundish-oval, very oblique at the base, having 




288 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [187T. 



large coriaceous auricles, smooth and shining on tlie upper surface, 

 and canescent beneath. The normal form has double the number 

 of leaflets, which are narrowly lanceolate, and drawn out into a 

 long narrow point. Nothing could be more unlike than the two 

 forms. There were three trees near each other, among many hun- 

 dreds of the normal form, all of which appeared to have come up 

 in a measure naturally along fence rows in an old field. The 

 broad shining leaflets gave the trees so marked an appearance as 

 to attract attention from a long distance. The}^ were seed-bear- 

 ing (female) trees, as were many others of the normal form near 

 them. It was, therefore, a great point gained to be able to show 

 that the case was not one of sexual variation, to which many cases 

 of dimorphism were properly- referred. Another very interesting 

 fact was that a branch of the normal form came out of one of the 

 trees, and it was from this branch that the normal leaf now ex- 

 hibited was taken. The laws regulating these variations seemed 

 still obscure. 



On the Feeding of Dinamoeba. — Prof. Leidy remarked that bias 

 frequently proved to be an obstacle in tlie way of research. In his 

 stud}' of the rhizopods, he had repeatedly watched different kinds 

 o^ Ama'ha for long periods with the view of ascertaining their usual 

 mode of feeding. Ordinary experience had prepossessed him to 

 direct his attention to the forepart of tlie body, that is to sa}', the 

 part in advance in the movements of the animal, as the point at 

 which food would be taken. He had been surprised at the rarity 

 of the occurrence in which he had seen Amoebae swallow food 

 when the apparent greediness of the animal was taken into con- 

 sideration. In the last number of the Popular Science Review, 

 there is an interesting article, by Mr. P, Martin Duncan, entitled 

 "Studies amongst Amcebsey From this he learned, from the ob- 

 servations of Mr. Duncan, that the Amce.bse habituall}' take their 

 food at Avhat may be considered tiie posterior part of the body. 

 With this hint, he examined specimens of the curious amoeboid 

 animal, described under the name of Dinamceba, of which he had 

 recently obtained a good supply from the ditches of a cranberry 

 field at Atco, New Jersey. He had since on several occasions had 

 the opportunity of seeing the Dinamceba take its food, wiiich was 

 done, as indicated by Mr. Duncan, at the posterior part of the 

 bod3% One instance appeared to him to be particular!}' interest- 

 ing, and was related as follows: — 



Seeing a specimen of Dinamceba with its left side in contact with 

 a filament of the alga Bambusina Bj-ebissonii^ he was led to watch 

 it. On closer examination it proved that the alga entered to the 

 left of the tail and extended through the body, causing a slight 

 bulge of the ectosarc by its other end to the left of the head. The 

 JHnamccba became slightly elongated, and the alga sunk more in- 

 wardly from behind. The former moved with an inclination to 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 289 



the right, causuig the alga to assume an oblique position from left 

 to right. The anterior end of the alga suddenly pn)truded from 

 the body of the animal, so that this appeared to be pierced bj' it. 

 In this condition the alga entered the Dinamoeba to the left of the 

 tail, and protruded at the right of tlie head. Gradually the alga 

 was made to assume a transverse position. The right extremity 

 of the alga now became depressed and the left elevated, so that 

 the alga assumed nearly its original position, in which it appeared 

 to perforate the left border of the animal obliquely from the tail 

 end. It gradually acquired a central position, penetrating the 

 animal from tail to head. The Dinamoeba now elongated at both 

 ends, a third greater than its former length, extending in a fusi- 

 form manner uj^on the alga. The animal next doubled upon itself, 

 so that both ends of the alga approached in front and protruded 

 side by side from the head. One extremity of the alga then sunk 

 within the Dinamoeba^ and subsequently the other extremity, so 

 that the filament, about three times the length of the animal, be- 

 came coiled up within it. 



The observation of swallowing the Bambusina was made in the 

 afternoon of September 15. In the evening, several hours after 

 the first observation, on looking at the Dinamoeba^ which had been 

 preserved in an animalcula cage, it was observed sitting, as it were, 

 on a large filament of the alga Didijmoprium Gremlii. The pos- 

 terior end of the animal extended as a cylindrical expansion along 

 the alga to a greater length than the breadth of the bod^^ of the 

 Dinamoeba^ and so closely clasped it as to contract the gelatinous 

 envelop of the alga to little more than the thickness of the green 

 cells. After some time the alga suddenly broke, and the two por- 

 tions were gradually bent backward and made slowly to approacli, 

 so as to become parallel with each other. One of the pieces was 

 then drawn within the animal a convenient length, broken off, and 

 completely swallowed, and this was followed by a similar move- 

 ment of the other piece. Shortly after the first rupture of the 

 alga, when the two portions projected at an obtuse angle from the 

 back portion of the Dinamceba, the animal contracted in length, 

 and discharged from the right side a mass of bodies, which con- 

 sisted of the separated cells of Bambm^ina, probably from the 

 filament.it had swallowed in the afternoon. 



Prof. licidy continued that the two successive ol)servations in 

 the feeding of Dinamoeba appeared to be particularly fortunate, 

 as the}' apparently explained certain facts in the habits of the 

 animal. Vinamceba had been noticed to be especially fond of 

 the alga JDidymoprium, for it was found to be present as the 

 principal element of tl)e food in numerous specimens. Bambusina 

 was less frequently found among the food contents of the animal. 

 The alga3 were equally abundant in the localities of the IHnamcp.ba; 

 and, from the observations detailed, it would appear that the Didy- 

 moprium is preferred as food from the comparative ease with 




290 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF flSTT. 



which its filaments are broken into pieces of convenient size for 

 swallowing. 



The observations are, moreover, interesting from their indicat- 

 ing discrimination and purpose in the movements of one of the 

 simplest forms of animal life. The movements are to be viewed 

 as reflex in character, though resemljliugthe voluntary movements 

 by which the most intelligent animal would prepare morsels of 

 food of convenient form to taUe into tlie mouth. In striking con- 

 trast were the movements, noticed on several occasions, by which 

 an Oscillatoria obtained entrance into the empty shell of an 

 Arcella, and there, coiled up, crept round and round incessantly. 



Concretions resemhlinr) Bones. — Prof. Leidy directed attention 

 to some large specimens on the table which had been sent to the 

 Academy for his inspec-tion. They had been recently mentioned 

 in the daily papers as bones of a large reptile found in the coal- 

 measures of Hazleton, Pa. Though presenting a remote resem- 

 blance to bones, one of which especially lookecl like the coracoid 

 of a reptile, they proved to be nothing but irregular nodules or 

 concretions of iron ore, or limonite. 



Mineralogical Notes. — Professor Geo. Aug. Kcenig placed on 

 record a determination of Ankerite from the Phoenix ville tunnel. 

 Professor Genth mentions the occurrence of this mineral at the 

 Phoinixville mines in curved rhombohedral crystals, but usually 

 in yellowish-white, crNStalline, agranular masses. An anal3'sis l)y 

 Dr. W. P. Headden is given (.see below) (Prel. Report on the 

 Mineralogy of Penna., 1n75). The specimens from the tunnel pre- 

 sent crusts, one-quarter of an inch thick, covered with brown, well- 

 defined rhombohedrons, whose faces do not show any curvature. 

 Underneath this brown crystalline surface the mineral is colorless, 

 and possesses verj* brilliant vitreous lustre. Small cleavage pieces 

 are perfectl3'^ transparent. 



The angle of the rhombohedral pole edge was found by the 

 speaker = 105° 59', differing slightlv from measurements of other 

 localities, as 106° I'i' (MoUs), and "106° 6' (Ettling). The com- 

 ponents of Ankerite are the carbonates of calcium, magnesium, 

 and iron, whose rhoml)ohedral angles are respectively 105° 5', 

 107° 29', and 107°. It is clear that the angle of a mixture of the 

 three must lie between the extremes, and must occup3' a distinct 

 relation to their respective quantities. As those are known to 

 vary between magnesium and iron, the angles must necessarily 

 vary accordingly. 



Sl)ecific gravity = 2.953, at 22° C. 



The mineral was anal^'zed at the speaker's request by his assis- 

 tant, Mr. R. B. Chipnian, with the following result: — 




18YT.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29l 



CO, = 44.56 : 44 = 1.013 molecules 



CaO = 28.60 : 56 = 0.510 



FeO = 14.41 : 72 = 0.200 



MffO = 13.03 : 40 = 0.325 



100.60 

 yielding the empiric formula — ■ 



Mg,Fe,Ca,C,o03„ 

 also — 



(fMg, |Fe)CaCA 



Dr. Headden's analj^sis (loc. cit.) gives — 



CaCOj = 50.73 : 100 = 0.5072 molecules 

 MgCO, = 21.08 : 88 = 0.2497 

 FeCO,' = 27.29 : 116 = 0.2352 

 Insoluble = 0.22 



100.21 

 yielding the empiric formula — 



MgjFe.CaioCaAo 

 also — 



(^Mg, |Fe)CaC.,06 

 Hence, Ankerite occurs at Phoenixville in two varieties 

 At the mine with the ratio Fe : Mg = 1:1 

 lu the tunnel " " Fe : Mg = 2 : 3 



October 9. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty members present. 



Apjoarenl Discriminative Poxoer in the Selection of Food by a 

 Heliozoon. — Prof. Leidy remarked that he had on several occa- 

 sions observed actions in the rhizopods apparently indicating a 

 discriminative power in the selection of food. It was certain that 

 they generally sv»'allowed living alga3 and animalculfe, and avoided 

 dead ones. He recently had observed a heliozoon eject an article, 

 which ap|)eared to indicate discriminative power. The heliozoon 

 was Acanthocystis spinifera. The genus differs from Actinophrys 

 in being provided with siliceous rays in addition to the ordinary 

 soft ra^'s. The former emanate from minute disks, forming, as it 

 were, a sort of flexible armor to the body of tlie Acanfhocystis. 

 Wliile examining an individual, a rapidly moving, oval, flageUate 

 infusorium, as it w\ts supposed to be, came into contact with 

 several of the soft ra^-s. Tiie infusorium was paralyzed; it as- 

 sumed a globular shape and became quiescent. It was gradually 

 drawn towards the body of the heliozoon, wliich projected its 

 armor to meet it, but quickly withdrew it again, and the heliozoon 

 was pushed off beyond the siliceous rays. The same movements 




*292 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [IStiT. 



were repeated, and then the infusorian remained outside the sili- 

 ceous rays. The objects were examined from time to time for 

 several hours. The infusorium was no more drawn towards the 

 bod}' of tlie heliozoon. After a time it projected a minute bud, 

 which gradually extended into a tortuous tube, pi'oving the sup- 

 posed infusorium to be a zoospore. It was finally abandoned by 

 the heliozoon, apparently as if it had been determined not to be 

 its jjroper food. 



On Helminfhophaga leucohronchialis (BreAvster). — Spencer 

 Trotter communicated the fact that last winter, wiiile arranging 

 the collection of warblers {Sylvicolidse) in the museum of the 

 Academy, he had discovered among them a specimen of Helmin- 

 thophaga leucobronchiali?;. This rare species was described b}'' 

 Mr. Wm. Brewster, of Cambridge, Mass., who procured the first 

 specimen at Newtonville, Mass., in tlie spring of 1870, a descrip- 

 tion and plate of which he published in the Bulletin of the 

 Nuttall Ornithological Club for April, 1876. A second specimen 

 was taken near Clifton, Delaware Co., Pa., in May, 1877, by Mr. 

 C. D. Wood, an account of which Mr. Trotter sent to the Bulletin 

 for July, 1877. The one now under consideration is, therefore, 

 the third specimen of this rare species which has been discovered. 



When he found it, there was no label attached designating its 

 species, sex, or the locality where it was procured ; but on the 

 bottom of the stand was written "J. C, 20 Oct. 1802," and three 

 otlier words that were much blurred, and which he believed to be 

 " not from Bell." Bell is an Ornithologist of New York. The 

 above indicates that John Cassin (for all the birds he examined 

 have the same J. C. written on the stands or labels) had studied 

 the specimen. The date he supposed to be that of its capture; 

 and it is a curious fact tliat this specimen shoulel have been pro- 

 cured at least eight years before the one from which the first de- 

 scription was taken. He had compared the specimen carefully with 

 Mr. Brewster's description, also with Mr. Wood's specimen, and 

 with these it agrees almost precisely. As the two former were 

 males, from its similarit}' to them, he believed this one to be a male 

 also. He took pleasure in adding another rare bird to the many 

 which the Academy alread}' possesses. 



October 16. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-five members present. 



Mineralogical Notes — Professor Geo. Aug. Kcenig placed on 

 record the results of an investigation of a peculiar form of Mag- 

 netite from Magnet Cove, Ark. The material was obtained from 




ISTu] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29iJ 



Dr. Lawrence through Dr. Leidy. It occurs in nodular masses, 

 so.neti.nes nearly spherical, with a very smooth surface which 

 not untVequently is iridescent. There is no evidence whatever of 

 crvstalline form. The fracture is very even and straight, like a 

 cleavao-e face. Color, black ; lustre, vivid, metallic. It is tho- 

 rou-hh' compact, and surpasses the crystallized Magnetite in 

 hardness. It is strongly magnetic, attracting small Iragments 

 of itself. At Magnet ^Cove, collectors designate it as 'rolled 



Titanium." 



Suecific o-ravitv = 4.951 at 20° C. 



B. B. Gives reaction of Titanium with salt of phosphorus, and 

 fuses with difficulty. 

 Composition — 



^ Fe.O, = C4.47 



AV,0, = 3.06 

 TiO., = 3.25 

 V..O; = 0.17 

 FeO = 26.23 

 ]\IiTO = 3.45 



100.63 



II TI 



This agrees perfectly with the general formula, RRO„ as fol- 

 lows : — 



FeFeO, = 84.52 



MffFeO^ = 7.T2 



M'^AIO, = 4.16 



M^TiO^ = 3.90 



MgVO, = 0.22 



100.53 



October 23. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Thirty-seven members present. 



Remarks on Rhizopods, and Notice of a New Form.— Vvofessov 

 Leidy remarked that, while in the Rocky Mountains last summer, 

 he had continued his researches among the rhizopods. He had 

 detected many forms, but they were nearly all of the same kind 

 he had found in the vicinity of Philadelphia. His investigations 

 led him to suspect that the species of fresh-water rhizopods were 

 cosmopolite. He had found the greatest number of species and 

 the crreatest profusion near tlie sea level, though they were abun- 

 dant" even at an altitude of 10,000 feet in the Rocky Mountains. 

 The most prolific localities of the fresh-water rhizopods are sphag- 

 nous swamps. Moist sphagnum often teems with multitudes of 

 beautiful forms. A single drop of water squeezed from sphagnum 




294 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



has at times been found to contain hundreds of individuals of 

 Hi/alospheiiia, Ncbela, Uugbjpha, etc., of different species. Ponds 

 and ditches in sphaonous swamps are also rich localities for other 

 forms. Ponds and ditches prolific in aquatic plants, in sandstone, 

 quartzite, argillaceous, and granitic districts, have also been rich 

 in rhizopod life. Ponds and springs in limestone districts are 

 exceedingly poor, which is the more remarkable when we take 

 into consi.'leration the exceeding abundance of rhizopods in the 

 ocean, and the vast contribution the ocean forms have made to 

 the limestone rocks. Over and over again he had been disap- 

 pointed in his expectation of finding rhizopods among the pro- 

 fusion of vegetation of some large springs in the limestone districts 

 of our neigliboring counties. 



Among the peculiar forms of rhizopods found in the West is an 

 interesting one obtained from a pond, at an elevation of 10,000 

 feet, in the Uinta Mountains, "Wyoming. It was found in asso- 

 ciation with Cyphoderia margaritacea^ which was first discovered 

 in the Ali)s. It is also related with Cyphoderia in a manner 

 parallel with Centropyxis as related with Arcella. In the side 

 view it has the same shape as Cyphoderia; but, viewed in front 

 or behind, it presents a conical process diverging on each side of 

 the postei'ior third. The shell is yellow, chitinous, and incor- 

 porated with scattered particles of quartz sand. The mouth is 

 circular, and surrounded by a delicate, colorless zone. The sar- 

 code and pseudopods are the same as in Cyphoderia. 



Length, 0.112 to 0.14 mm.; breadth between points, 0.08 to 

 0.124 mm.; breadth in opposite direction, 0.072 mm.; width of 

 mouth, 0.028 mm. 



Campasous cornutus would be an appropriate name for the 

 animal. 



On Fossil Fishes. — Prof. Leidy stated that the beautiful speci- 

 mens of fossil fishes, presented this evening by Mr. Jeanes, were 

 obtained from Bear River, Wyoming, and had been purchased by 

 him in his recent trip west. The}' are some of the species named 

 in Prof. Cope's communication to the American Philosophical 

 Society last Jul}-. 



October 30. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirt3'-three members present. 



Mineralogical Notes. — Prof. Kcenig described a mineral from 

 Bear Creek, Colorado. Dr. Joseph Leidy mentions Bergen's 

 Ranch, 25 miles from Denver, as tlic more precise locality. The 

 mineral occurs as a crust, one centimetre thick, on earthy Limo- 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 295 



nite. The surfiice of the ciust is manimillarv in stnicture, and a 

 cross fractnre exiiibits banded texture. No crj-stalline form is 

 observable even when considerably magnified, bnt small fragments 

 appear hyaline and transparent under the microscope. The color 

 is light greenish-blue, and snow-white in spots. The mineral is 

 friable between the fingers, and adheres slightly to the tongue. 



Before tlie blowpipe the mineral is infusible, and imparts a 

 strong green color to the flame. With salt of phosphorus and tin 

 or charcoal, copper reaction. Decomposed by cold, concentrated 

 hydrochloric acid, witli separation of floculent silica. Yields much 

 water in the closed tube. 

 Composition — 



SiO, = 24.96 

 AbO, = 38.80 

 Fe.,03 = 0.81 

 CuO = 5 40 

 P.,0, = 0.69 

 Comb. H.,0 = 23.60 

 Hygrosc. H,0 = 12.30 



100.11 



Supposing the copper to be present as CuSiO^, one obtains the 

 following vevy satisfactorj' ratio: — 



SiO., = 21.06 ) 

 AbOj = 34.16 ) 



SiO., = 3.90 

 CuO = 5.40 



} 



The combined water gives 3 molecules respectivel}^ for the 

 aluminum and copper silicate. Hitherto no notice had been taken 

 of the large percentage of hygroscopic water, whence the 4 and 

 6 molecules have been deduced. 



The mineral is, therefore, 



(Al.,SiO,4- 3H.,0)3 4- (CuSiO^-f 3H.,0) 



AUophauc. ClirysocoUa. 



Two analyses from different jxirts of the crust gave tlie same 

 result, and a rational relation between the two molecules (5:1) 

 seems to exist. 



C. Few Seiss, Miss E. B. Rice, Miss Mary B. Rice, Andrew J. 

 Parker, M.D., J. D. Thomas, M.D., and S. H. Guilford, M.D., were 

 elected members. 



The following were elected correspondents : Sereno E.Watson, 

 of Cambridge ; Wm. G. Farlow, of Cambridge ; Geo. L. Goodale, 

 of Cambridge; John Duns, of Edinburgh; Dr. Ernst Candeze, 

 of Liege; Dr. C. A. Dohrn, of Stettin ; Baron E. Yon Harold, of 

 Berlin; Yicomte Henri de Bonvouloir, of Paris; Baron Maximilien 




296 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1811. 



de Chaudoir, of St. Petersburg; Henry W. Bates, of London; 

 Etienne Mulsant, of Lyons ; M. A. Chevrolat, of Paris ; S. Solsky, 

 of St. Petersburg; Alfred Preudhorame de Borre, of Bruxelles; 

 Jules Putzeys, of Bruxelles ; Chas. C. Parry, of Davenport, Iowa; 

 A. Ernst, of Venezuela; G. Y. Black, of Jacksonville, Ind.; Pv. J. 

 Lechmere Guppy, of Port of Spain, Trinidad; and Edw. Hull, of 

 Dublin. 



The following was ordered to be published: — 




ISTt.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 297 



ON A NEW SPECIES OF HELIX FEOM TEXAS. 

 BY WILLIAM G. MAZYCK. 

 Helix (Triodopsis) Henriettae, Mazyck. 



Shell rimatelj' umltilicated, depressed, globose, ratlier solid, with 

 numerous regular delicate stria?, dark brownish horn color; spire 

 obtuse; whorls about five and a half, slightly convex; suture 

 deeply impressed; beneath convex, smoother than above; um- 

 bilicus very deep, reaching the apex, but onl}' exhibiting the last 

 three whorls, grooved within; body-whorl gently ascending just 

 behind the aperture, and then suddenly and shortly deflected, very 

 much constricted behind the peristome, with two deep exterior 

 pits, having the space between them elevated into a prominent 

 ridge; aperture subtriangular, peristome much thickened within 

 and very slightly reflexed, vevy tortuous, yellowish-white, furnished 

 with a small denticle near its upper termination and an erect 

 lamelliform tooth, which is equal in length to about one-fifth the 

 diameter of the base of the shell, extending from the lower end of 

 the uppermost pit almost to the inner edge of the body-whorl ; 

 low down in the mouth of the shell there is, between this tooth 

 and the denticle, a large, white, tongue-sliaped, concave tooth ; and 

 very near this, but rather lower down in the mouth of the shell, 

 and on the base of the body-whorl, there is an oblique, stout, white 

 tooth, which is sometimes slightly cleft on the edge. The parietal 

 wall, which is covered with a semitransparent callus, bears a very 

 strong, arcuated, entering, white tooth, whose outer margins form 

 almost a right angle. 



Piam. maj. |^; min. ^^ ; alt. ^ inch. 



Habitat Eastern Texas. Mr. Jacob Boll. 



This species more nearly resembles Helix vultuosa, Gld., than 

 anj' other Xorth American species, but differs- from that shell in 

 the shape and size of the umbilicus and in the form and armature 

 of the aperture, which in vuUuosa is lunate, almost circular, and 

 in this species is rather V-shaped ; in vultuosa the peristome, 

 though moderately so, is decidedly reflexed, and its plane is 

 almost entirely unbroken; in Henriettse it is very much thickened, 

 but scarcely at all reflexed, is very tortuous, and bears on its 

 inner margin an obtuse denticle and a long lamelliform erect 

 20 




298 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [187 T. 



tooth, which are wanting in vultuosa; in Henriettse the two in- 

 ternal teeth are so far within the apertnre as to be seen only on 

 looking into it, while in vultuosa they are plainly' visible from the 

 base of the side ; in tlie latter the parietal tooth is arched up- 

 ivards, and its outer margin is rounded — in Henriettse it takes 

 the opposite direction, and its margins form almost a right angle; 

 the deep pits behind the peristome are wanting or obsolete in 

 vultuosa. 



The species is referred to by Mr. Bland in " Remarks," p. 116- 

 117. 




ISVV.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 299 



November 6. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in tlie cliair. 



Thirty-one members present. 



The deaths of John GouUl Anthon}- and of Prof. James Orton, 

 correspondents, were announced. 



November 13. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Thirty-two members present. 



A paper entitled "On the Diameters of the Incisors of Rodents," 

 by John A Ryder, was presented for publication. 



The Agricultural Ants of Texan. — Rev. H. C. McCook gave 

 an abstract of a paper, in course of preparation, ui)on the Agri- 

 cultural Ants of Texas, Myrmica molefaciens, Buckley (31. bar- 

 bata, Smith). He had visited Texas during the summer, and, 

 encamping in the midst of a large number of formicaries, had 

 given several weeks to the studj^ of these and the cutting ants. 

 Mr. McCook referred to the first notice of the agricultural ants 

 by Prof. Buckle}', in the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, ISt^O, and to the subsequent, much more 

 detailed, observations of Dr. Gideon Lincecura. Notwithstanding 

 the doubt with which Dr. L.'s statements had been received, Mr. 

 McCook was able to verify many of his recorded facts, to com- 

 plete many, to correct some, and to add new facts to the known 

 history of these most interesting insects. The point chosen for 

 study is in the neighborhood of Austin, Texas, upon the table- 

 land to the southwest of the Colorado River and its affluent. Bar- 

 ton Creek. The soil is black and sticky, varying in depth from 

 three feet to a few inches. The bed rock is limestone, which crops 

 up in striated and punctured masses. The formicaries of the ants 

 are ver}- numerous, and are found along roads, in open prairies, 

 in the very streets, sidewalks, gardens, and j-ards of Austin; one 

 was even perceived in the stone-paved court of a hotel. They are, 

 as found upon the hills, commonly flat, circular clearings, hard 

 and measurably' smooth, well enough described b}' Lincecum as 

 " pavements." A few were found with low mounds in the centre, 

 a few inches in height and two or three in diameter. These mounds 

 were frequently composed of bits of gravel of one to two grains 

 weight. The width of the formicaries varies from twelve feet to 




300 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [ISH. 



two or three feet. They are invariably located in open sunlight. 

 Yet the meridian heat of the sun is avoided, the ants ceasing work 

 entirely at 12 M. and remaining housed until between 2 and 3 P. M. 

 Ver}^ little work was done at night, except in cases where the nest 

 had been disturbed. The process of making a clearing was ob- 

 served, and suggested strongly the modes of pioneers in an Ameri- 

 can forest. '• Stumi)s" of grass remained at tlie inner edge of the 

 clearing ; beyond these, ants were engaged cutting off the spires 

 of grass. Generally the head was downward, mandibles applied 

 quite close to the roots, and the stalk yielded under a combined 

 process of cutting, pinching, tearing, and twisting. In one case 

 a worker climbed to the top of the grass and gained the advan- 

 tage of leverage by l^earing down. The rank vegetation of the 

 semi-tropical climate is kept in complete control ; clearings were 

 found among the tall thickets of wihl sage and daisy which could 

 not intrude upon the emmet preserves. From each formicary 

 diverge roads in number from thiee to seven, widest at the home 

 terminus, and extending for many feet — sixty feet, more or less — 

 into the surrounding herbage. These roads are level and smooth, 

 and in i)usy hours of the day are thronged b}' worker ants going 

 and coming. The mode of gathering grain was completely c)l)- 

 served, single insects having been followed from the nest to the 

 harvesting grounds and back. Seeds were gathered from the 

 ground, never from the plant. The seeds, which were collected 

 in large quantities, were exhibited, and the report of the Botanical 

 Section of the Academy upon the same, which had been made 

 after careful examination by Messrs. Meehan, Burk, and Redfield, 

 was read. The seeds were of small Euphorbiaceous and Rubia- 

 ceous plants, Grotov^ Paspahim^ Arididastricta, and Buvhloe 

 dactyloideii^ the common western buffalo grass. The last two 

 naujcd were the most numerous. 



The chain of evidence that determines these ants to be true 

 harvesters is as follows: 1st. "Workers were seen gathering seeds 

 and carr3-ing them into the formicaries through the central gates. 

 2d. The same seeds were found in granaries within the opened 

 formicaries. 3d. The same seeds with the outer shell removed were 

 found in other granaries. 4th. The ants were found carrying out 

 shells to the refuse Jieaps, which heai)S, as reported by expert 

 botanists from collections, contain no i)erfect seeds among them. 

 Several observers, under Mr. McCook's direction, are noting the 

 winter habits and the condition of the winter formicaries of these 

 agriculturals, and, when these notes are complete, the entire paper 

 will be given to the public. The reported sowing of a crop from 

 year to year was considered, and so far confirmed that in many 

 cases the clearings were found to be covered b^- cro[)S o^ AriHtida^ 

 which crops were as distinctly' marked upon the clearings as a 

 farmer's wheat or grass crop upon any particular field. The 

 formicaries could be recognized at a distance by the circular mass 




187 7.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHlLADELnilA. 301 



of tall ycllon- needle grass (Ainstida). On the prairies and low 

 land a sharp conical mound rises in the midst of a clearing more 

 or less extensive. Specimens brought to Mr. McCook by Dr. 

 Leidy, from Wyoming Territory, were identified as of tlie same 

 genus, M. occidentali^^ Crcsson. Mr. Cresson had described the 

 male as a separate species, Mijrmica seminigra. 



Several questions which arose were answered as follows : Wh}- 

 should tiie needle-grass {Arhtida sfricfa) be planted upon the 

 fi)rmicary clearings wlien seeds could be had all around the nest 

 without "that troul)le ? Evidently (if we are to suppose a plant- 

 ing) the saving of time and labor in harvesting thus accomplished 

 might be a sufficient reason. Mr. McCook was unwilling as yet 

 to commit himself to the theory of an intelligent planting of seeds 

 by the ants. His ojjinion at i)resent was that the ants simply pre- 

 serve growths which accidental!}'^ arise from seeds carried out of 

 the granaries for various reasons. It should be remembered that 

 onli/^a portion of the formicaries are thus covered, not one-half, 

 perhaps one-third. Of twenty-two registered nests (in one list) in 

 which the details are given in his field notes, ten are reported with 

 needle-grass crops. This crop is usually on the margin of the 

 clearing. Thus (extract from Xotes, ''No. 15. Space clear about 

 one and a half feet diameter, needle-grass for two feet beyond on 

 all sides 18. Small spaee at the gate open. A circu- 

 lar belt of six feet, total diameter, covered with needle-grass. 20. 

 Small hill; about twelve inches clear space, eight inches (each side) 



of needle-grass 22. Four feet of clear space, gravel 



covering the space immediately surrounding the gate ; tufts of 



needle-grass on outer edge 2. Two feet diameter bare ; 



about one foot each side covered with needle-grass 



4. Formicary four feet in diameter, with tufts of needle-grass." 

 This will give a fair idea of the way in which the pavements run. 



How did the naturalists of the last century account for the 

 ancient sacred, classical, and popular opinion of the harvesting 

 powers of ants, and how did they fall into the mistake of reject- 

 ing the ancient tradition ? The mistake was doubtless due to the 

 fact that no harvesting ants have yet been observed in northern 

 Europe, whose naturalists gave tone to the natural history of the 

 last century. The more widely extended research of vevy recent 

 times has brought opinion back to the old channel. The origin 

 of the opinion was accounted for by those who rejected it by 

 supposing that the yellowish grain-like cocoons (the "eggs" of 

 common speech) which ants are frequentlj' seen carrying when 

 nests are disturbed, were popularly mistaken for grains of wheat. 



Is there anything like a systematic direction of these harvesting 

 labors? Do the queen or major-workers, for example oversee 

 the work of the formicary? The queen has nothing to do (appa- 

 rently) l)ut replenish the population of the community. Her life 

 is spent, for the most part, under ground. There aie no "oflicers" 




302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1877. 



that could be distinguished. Each ant acts with an individuality 

 and independence of behavior that quite accurately answers to 

 tliat oldest description of her habits — (Prov. vi. 7) " Having 

 no guide, overseer, or ruler." Each worker is a law unto her- 

 self, and vet the work moves on with perfect harmony, and as if 

 with the utmost unity and system in management. The worker- 

 majors act constantly as sentinels, and once or twice was observed 

 what appeared to be an effort to extend aid to harvesters in gath- 

 ering seeds ; but nothing like leadership. 



Mr. McCook then proceeded to describe the interior of a for- 

 micary, illustrating his remarks by various specimens preserved 

 in plaster, plaster-casts, models, and drawings. Each formicary 

 has one or more gates, rarel}' more than two, sometimes three. 

 Sometimes two gates are found connected by a smooth, sunken 

 track. The gates are circular openings at the surface. Within 

 is a vestibule, shelving downwards less than or about 45'^ ; it is 

 about one to two inches wide, smooth, low, one-half to one-quarter 

 inches in height, shortly diverging in tubular galleries connecting 

 with granaries. 



Accumulations of seeds were found within half an inch of the 

 gate, more frequently lower down. Those described in detail were 

 found one and a half inch from the surface. Stripping off the 

 soil in horizontal layers, and working carefully witli a trowel, Mr. 

 McCook uncovered a series of oval, circular, and crescent or horse- 

 shoe-shaped rooms, quite uniforml}' ^ inch in height, but ranging 

 to I and i inch. Of tliese, as examples, say. No. 1 was in diam- 

 eters 3| by 4 inches ; No. 2, 3f by 3f inches; No. 3, 6 by 3 inches. 

 The roofs and floors were hard and smooth. In one nest opened 

 in a light yellowish soil, and white " adobe," the black, unctuous 

 "soil" had been brought down ten inches, and the floor, side walls, 

 and roof plastered therewith. The upper granaries were covered 

 with heaps of seeds, which must have nearly touched the roof. 

 Narrow gangways were left at the outer margin between grain 

 heaps and wall. The granaries were connected with each other 

 by tubular galleries. The nurseries or rooms in which the larvae 

 and pupse were stored, were of the same character as the granaries. 

 One large nursery, ten inches belovv the surface, was illustrated by 

 a model and plaster cast. It was exposed entire by careful and 

 extremely tedious manij)ulation with knife and trowel. The difli- 

 cult}^ of this and similar operations was greatly' increased by the 

 attacks of the ants, wiiose sting is quite as severe as the wasp's. 

 Mr. McCook prosecuted these labors with one man and sometimes 

 two constantly engaged in brushing off the enraged insects. The 

 nursery was liorse-shoe-shaped, the opening toward the centre of 

 the nest, and one of the prongs directed in the line of the gates, 

 with which it was apparently connected. The floor was hard, 

 smootli, an<l plastered with the black top soil. The nursery was 

 nine inches across the mouth, the length of the arms five inches. 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 303 



being also about three inches wide at the month, and mncli nar- 

 rower, three-quai'lers of an inch at the junction. Nothing but 

 larvre, pupa?, and a few callow ants was found in this nursery-. 



Section cuttings were made, and drawing and casts obtained. 

 It was found that the granaries were arranged one above another 

 from a quarter of an inch to three inches distant. There was 

 a general tendency of the rooms to what ma}'^ be called floors or 

 stories, which was stronger or more regular in some formicaries 

 than others. A cast and drawing showed how the rooms of each 

 story are connected together, and the stories united with each 

 other and tlie gates, by galleries. There was a massing of the 

 granaries toward the centre, and an apparent preference for one 

 half of the formicary' space to the neglect of the other. Excava- 

 tions were made several feet in dei)tli, tlie queens, vii'gins, and 

 males always eluding search, although the latter were in great 

 number somewhere within the nest. One of the men assisting at 

 the digging, said that in sinking a well he had found these ants 

 coming out of their "holes" fifteen feet below the surface. 



Some of the general habits of the ants were described, and their 

 means of attack and defence were referred to, their stinging organs 

 being explained, and the mode of inflicting the wounds, as well as 

 effects, which are very severe, and continue for a day. In the 

 case of children the sting is sometimes quite serious. The univer- 

 sal popular name of these ants in Texas is the " Stinging Ant." 

 The mode of preserving the formicary from inundation by'tiie 

 massing of the workers in the vestibule and around the gates, 

 was observed and described. He was not satisfied that this was 

 the work of design, but it evidentl}^ served the purpose of partly 

 stopping the influx of the water, not wholly. Examples were 

 given siiowing strong intelligence in separating white meal from 

 arsenic, with which it had been mixed, and of the refusal of poisoned 

 molasses. A remarkable garnering b}' the agriculturals of a 

 swarm of white ants, Termes Jlavipes, beaten down by a shower 

 was described. These insects, males and females, were seized and 

 carried in great numbers within the formicary. Reference was 

 also made to the synonyma of these insects. Two years before 

 Prof. Buckley's description as Mijrinica molefacieyis, Mr. Freder- 

 ick Smith had described a female from Mexico as Myrmica bar- 

 hata. It is probable that Mr. Smith's name will prove good, but 

 the description, as compared with the insects, was not satisfactory. 

 Moreover, the descrii)tion of the supposed male in a private letter 

 from Mr. Smith to Mr. Cresson does not at all answer to the Texas 

 species. Not having seen Smith's types, Mr. McCook was still in 

 doubt, and for the present retained the name given by Buckley. 

 It is piobable, however, that both the generic and specific names 

 by which the ant has so long been known, must yield, and the 

 name stand (as recently suggested in a private letter b}'^ Dr. 

 Forel, the distinguished author of " The Swiss Ants") Pogonor 




804 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1877. 



myrmex barbatus. Smith. However, the popular name given b^' 

 Lincecum, "Agricultural Ants," will be permanent, except perhaps 

 in Texas, where the people will doubtless continue to call the in- 

 sects the '' Stinging Ants." 



Bemarks on Ants — Prof. Leidy remarkecl that he had read Mr. 

 Lincecum's communications on the habits of the agricultural ant 

 of Texas with much interest, and that he was disposed to take a 

 different view of some of his observations from the author. He 

 considered the clearing of a space around the nest, with the ex- 

 ception of a grass that grew thereon, and the collection of the 

 seeds of the grass when ripe, all ver^' i)robable, but he suspected 

 that the sowing of tlie seed was accidental rather than inten- 

 tional. If the grass seeds are favorite food, man}' may be acci- 

 dentally droi)ped and left on the clear space in carrying them 

 from the surrounding region to the nest, and the lost seeds ger- 

 minating ma3' supply the future harvest field. 



He further stated that, during his trips in the summer to the 

 Rocky Mountains, he had observed, through the plains of western 

 Kansas, Colorado, Wyoming, and Utah, formicaries of an ant, 

 wliich he had suspected to be the same as the agricultural ant. 

 Having submitted specimens of the ant to the Rev, Dr. McCook, 

 he was informed they pertained to a different species, the Myrmica 

 occidentalis of Cresson. 



The formicaries of this ant include a circular space from three 

 to eighteen feet in diameter with a central cone of less than one- 

 third tlie diameter at base, and from ten to eighteen inches high. 



The circular space is usually devoid of every vestige of vegeta- 

 tion, rarely presenting even tlie stump of a plant. Occasionalh', 

 h(nvever, it retains near its boundary some grasses, usually bunches 

 of Eriocoma or Triticum. The space is mostly level and clear of 

 loose soil, and if stony the pebbles are firmly impacted. The cen- 

 tral cone is composed externally of small loose gravel stones, car- 

 ried by the ants from the interior of the nest. The interior of the 

 cone is composed of finer material, and is excavated into galleries. 

 The finer soil forming the walls of these galleries is mingled with 

 root fibres. These suggest the probability of being I'etained to 

 give greater coherence to the friable soil. The larger stones on 

 the exterior of the cone were found by weighing to be six times 

 heavier than the workers who carried them to their place. The 

 entrance to the interior of the formicaries consisted usually of one 

 or two openings near the l)ase of the cone. 



The outside of the circular formicaries are closel}^ and often 

 densely skirted with vegetation, especially by sage bushes, Arle- 

 mesia tridentala, grease wood, Sarcobatua vermivulalus, etc. 



Accidentally, Prof. L. continued, he made an observation that 

 rendered it probable the A. occidentals^ like many other ants, 

 fostered insects for their saccharine productions. Noticing seve- 




IStT.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 305 



ral ants earning what lie sni)i)osed to be large stones into their 

 nests, on closer examination these proved to be a large speeies 

 of Coccus. A specimen of this insect was about the one-fourth of 

 an inch long and the one-fifth of an inch broad, of a pale pinkish 

 hue. The bodj', independent of tiie head, exhibited ten segments, 

 of which the thoracic ones possessed short limbs ending in a single, 

 black, curved unguis. The anterior pair of limbs were twice the 

 size of the others. The antennjB were fuscous and eight-jointed. 

 The source of the coccus was sought in the vicinity of the for- 

 micary', but not found. Opuntia grew abundantly in the neigh- 

 borhood, but no cocci were upon it. 



On a Stone Axe. — Mr. John Ford presented fifteen species of 

 fossil land and fresh-water shells, all of the quateruaiy period, a 

 stone axe or celt, a sample of Lignite, and a bone, belonging to 

 the genus Ganis. 



These were collected by himself and a friend in a cutting for a 

 roadwa}' made through the outer bluff on the margin of the Mis- 

 sissijipi River, a short distance northwest of Alton, 111. The axe, 

 which is somewhat unique in form, has an especial interest, owing 

 to the peculiar conditions attending its discover^'. The roadway 

 referred to is about twenty-five feet in width, forming a sort of 

 terrace running parallel witli the river, but some fifty feet above it. 

 From the outer edge of this the bluff slopes to the w'ater, while 

 the inner edge is flanked by an escarpment composed entirely of 

 natural deposits left in .siiu by the woikmon. In height the latter 

 is about equal to the width of the cutting, thus making the whole 

 vertical measurement from the present surface of the river to the 

 top of the bluff some seventy-five feet. It was in the face of this 

 perpendicular wall, from three to five feet above the roadw^ay, and 

 twenty feet below the summit, that all the specimens under con- 

 sideration were found. 



The presence of land and fresh-water shells may be accounted 

 for on the theory of deposition at a time when the Mississippi, 

 or what is more probable, a great fresh-water lake covered that 

 portion of the country, at an elevation much higher than the pre- 

 sent river surface. The waves of this lake, dashing against the 

 loftier limestone bluffs that still remain unaltered a few rods further 

 inland, doubtless threw down myriads of land shells. This same 

 force brought in large quantities of fresh-water shells, and these, 

 mingling with the others, aided in forming the vast pile of debris 

 of which the outer bluff is principally composed. The same 

 Iheoiy may explain the presence of the wolf bone and Lignite, 

 but it can reveal little or nothing in regard to the axe. The wall 

 referred to presented in every part a solid front, without fissure 

 or crevice, everywhere hard and impenetrable, except by pick or 

 crowbar, and yet, twenty feet under the surface, within this stony 

 matrix deposited by water thousands of years ago, laid the evi- 




306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1817. 



dence of the presence of the man of the period, a stone axe artis- 

 ticallj' made and doubtless used for purposes of battle. AYhen 

 or how it was buried is as much a myster}' as is the histor}' of its 

 maker. Whether it was dropped from a canoe into the accumu- 

 lating debris, or hurled from the land at a passing eneni}-, is a 

 prol)leni which cannot be solved; but that it had lain for unnum- 

 bered centuries in the sepulchre from which it was exhumed, there 

 are abundant reasons to believe. 



^November 20. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty-six members present. 



Correction of ''''Notes on American Cretaceous Fossils.'''' — The 

 following note, dated Porto Plata, San Domingo, Oct. 15, 1877, 

 was received from Mr. Wm. M. Gabb: — 



" In my paper on cretaceous fossils in the Proceedings for 1876, 

 of which 1 have just received a cop}', I find that, b}^ some unac- 

 countable mistake the genus VolutiJuHus., Conrad, is placed in the 

 sub-family Vohintinae, after RosteUites (p. 290), where it does not 

 belong, as well as in the Scajjhellijise, where it should be (p. 

 291), and where 1 intended it should go, as is amply proven by 

 the first paragraph on the following page, where J say 'I am by 

 no means convinced that Volutifusus should be separated from 

 Scaphella,^ wdiich it follows on p. 291. I do not pretend to explain 

 or excuse this inadvertence, but desire to put the correction on 

 record. I also note the following errata: In last line of page 289 

 for 'bi cit.' read 'loc. cit. ;' page 279, line 14 from top, for 'larger' 

 read 'longer;' page 305 under P. elliptica for 'seven' read 'my;' 

 page 3U9, line 22 from bottom, for ^Fseiidocardia^ read ^Froto- 

 vardia.^ " 



November 27- 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair 



Thirty-eight members present. 



A paper entitled "On the Alkali from the vicinity of Fort 

 Bridger, W^'oming Territory," by Edw. Goldsmith, was presented 

 for publication. 



Eemarks on the American Species of Difflugia. — Prof Leidy 

 remarked that the genus Difflugia was first described by Leclerc, 

 in 1815, and was founded on three forms, of which one is referred 

 by Ehrcnberg to his D. proteiformi.^^ and the others to D. aciimi- 




ISTT.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 30t 



imta and D. spiralis. Laraavck, "o-ithout distinction, applied the 

 former name to the whole of them. 



In his study of the fresh-water rhizopods of this conntr}^, Prof. 

 Leidy had recognized about fourteen kinds of Difffugia^vfhliih are 

 sufficiently common and characteristic to be worthy of distinctive 

 names. iS^evertheless his investigations had led him to believe, 

 with Wallich, that through transitional forms they all merge into 

 one species. 



The well-marked varieties observed are as follows: — 



1. DiFFLTJGiA FROTEiFOUMis. Ebrenberg. 



This name, the oldest and first applied by Lamarck, is used with 

 rather uncertain signification. It was suggested that it should 

 be restricted to the variety having its shell spheroidal, ovoidal, or 

 subpyriform, w-ith circular transverse section and with the mouth 

 circular and not crenulated. 



2. D. PTRiFORMis. Perty, Carter, WalHch, Ehrenberg. 



3. D. ACUMINATA. Ehrenberg. 



4. D. coMPRESSA. Carter. 



5. D. ENTOCHLORIS. 



Like the latter, but with the fundus of the shell surmounted by 

 from one to three obtuse processes. Sarcode green. Is it IJ. 

 mitrata, Wallich; or D. triangulata, Lang.? 



6. D. URCEOLATA. Carter. 



D. lageniformis, "Wallich ; D. amphoi'a, Leid}'. 



7. D. OLLA. 



Like the latter, but provided with several nipple-like processes 

 to the fundus. 



8. D. CORONA. Wallich. 



9. D. LOBOSTOMA. 



Mouth 3 to 12 lobed, spineless. D. t7-icuspis, Carter; D. oblonga, 

 Fresenius; JD. crenulata^ Leidy. 



10. D. GLOBULARis. WalHch. 

 Exclusive of tiie varieties. 



11. D. CIJATERA. 



Minute, goblet shaped, with ovoid bod}-, and wide c^dindrical 

 throat. 



12. D. VAS. 



Resembling D. j^yriformis, but with the neck narrowly con- 

 stricted from the body. 



13. D. SPIRALIS. Ehrenberg, Bailey, Fresenius, etc. 



14. D. MARSupiFORMis. Wallich. 

 Including the variet}- D. cassis, Wallich. 



In the Trans. Acad. Sciences, Berlin, 1871, Ehrenberg gives a 

 list of upwards of one hundred named species of Difflagia, and 

 later he described eight others. Tlie list, lioAvever, includes most 

 other related genera, except Arcella, so that if all were excluded 

 except those pertaining to DiJJlugia in its restricted sense, the 




308 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



number of species would he considerabl}^ reduced. It is remark- 

 able that the long list includes less than half the species above 

 named, nearly all of which appear to be very common. Further, 

 most of those of our list mentioned in Elirenberg's list are the 

 least characteristic of the series. None of those named by I]hren- 

 berg are suggestive of the forms called D. urceolata, D. olla, and 

 D. corona. Manj' of Ehrenberg's forms are badl}' figured and 

 imperfectly characterized, and his lists appear greatly extended 

 by the same things having been described over and over again 

 under different names. 



In Wallich's able papers on fresh-water rhizopods, referring to 

 forms from Bengal, the Himalayas, Greenland, Labrador, Nova 

 Scotia, and England, there are indicated about a dozen si)ecies 

 of Difflugia, in the restricted sense in whicli the genus is now 

 viewed, and the present list includes all of these except, at most, 

 two. 



The Aeronautic Flight of Spiders. — Eev. H, C. McCook re- 

 marked that October 25, 1877, was a warm daj', with a soft wind 

 from the west; just such an autumn da}^ as would tempt young 

 spiderlings to essay their aerial trips. The point of the following 

 observations was the fields back of the " Presbj'terian Home for 

 Widows," in the suburbs of I'hiladelphia. Stooping low, and 

 glancing along the meadow, tbe eye caught the sheen of mAM'iads 

 of fine silken filaments glistening in the sunlight. The tops of 

 the grass spires, and the bushy heads of tall weeds were netted 

 together hy innumerable threads, and from man^' points of the 

 same, like filaments were streaming out at various lengths into 

 the air. Numerous small spiders, chiefly orbweavers, the young 

 of Tetragnatha extenna., were rising from these plants, and sailing 

 off over the field. But the finest exhibition of the aeronautic 

 flight was seen along the post and rail fence which divides the 

 meadow. The tops of the i)Osts were the fixvorite spots, and upon 

 all of these clusters of 3'oung wolf spiders {Lycosidse) were 

 gathered, sometimes eight or ten in a group. The purpose in 

 choosing these elevated spots is quite apparent, the breeze being 

 much stronger there than close to the surface of the earth, and 

 consequently affording much better facilit}' for flight. The pres- 

 ence of a delilierate and wise volition is all the more evident from 

 the fact that the Lycoaidse are ground spiders, and are rarely found 

 in such positions as the above. They had certainly- mounted to 

 the top of the fence with the settled purpose of taking advantage 

 of the stronger breeze, and the better "send off" which the supe- 

 rior height afforded. He found that the threads, spread out by 

 spiderlings on the grass stalks, which floated quite lazily, when 

 the stalks were broken off and lifted higher, immediately fluttered 

 off' briskly, and soon carried the little arachnid away with them. 

 Fortunately, the posts suited the observer's convenience quite as 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 309 



much as tlie spiders', and be could easily notice the methods of 

 the miniature balloonists. 



The very top of the post was generally' chosen as the point of 

 ascent. The first position was to turn the face in the direction 

 from wliich tlie wind was Mowing. Then tlie abdomen was ele- 

 vated to an angle of about 45^, and, at the same time, the eight 

 logs were stiftened, tlius pusiiing the bod^^ upward. In order to 

 permit tiiis movement, the claws were brought in somewhat, but 

 not beneath the body, so that when the legs were stiffened the 

 body stood high above the surface. From the spinnarets at the 

 apex of the abdomen a single tliread was exuded, and rapidl}'^ 

 drawn out by the breeze, until, by reason of its delicacy, it was 

 lost to eyesight. Four, five, even six feet of the line would at 

 times be in view. Gradually the legs were inclined in the direc- 

 tion of tlie breeze, and the joints straightened out The foremost 

 ])air of legs sank almost to the level of the post; and these espe- 

 cially, but indeed all the legs, and the entire attitude of the crea- 

 ture, presented the apjjcarance of an animal resisting with utmost 

 force and tension of muscles the effort of some superior i)Ower to 

 snatch it away. Suddenly and simultaneousl}^ the eight claws 

 were unloosed, and the spider mounted with a sharp bound into 

 the air, and went careering away across the meadow, at a rate 

 more or less rapid according to the velocity of the wind. 



The utmost care was used to determine whether in this upward 

 bound the volition of the spider had any further agency than the 

 simple unclasping of the feet from the post. Owing to the ex- 

 treme difficulty of such an observation, he could not speak with 

 absolute confidence, but was able to satisfy his own mind that 

 the aeronauts always vaulted upward and clear of the post at the 

 moment of releasing their hold. That this was so in many cases, 

 at least, he could hardly be mistaken. A similar action was fre- 

 quently observed among the spiders before the final flight. Some- 

 thing was noticed a little like the frolicsome pranks of kittens or 

 lambs. One would rush up to another, who thereupon would 

 immediately change position, either by running or quickly vaulting 

 to another part of the post. At times tiie leaf) would be made 

 away from the post, but the buoyancy of the thread which had 

 been exuded being insufficient to overcome the weight of the 

 spider, instead of rising into the air, the creature returned to the 

 post, or struck upon the adjoining rail. In these and similar 

 movements, Mr. McCook was able to detect distinctly the vaulting 

 action of the spider, and the eye, being thus familiarized with the 

 movement, was less liable to be deceived in the more difficult ob- 

 servation of the quick spring at the time of the aerial flight. The 

 posts and part of the rails adjoining were covered with threads 

 adhering to the wood, and streaming out into the air. These 

 were the result, in part, of the feints at flight just referred to ; but 

 were partly owing to another cause. The spiders, previous to 




310 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



flight or vaultino-, attached themselves to the post in the manner 

 common to most of their order. The apex of the abdomen was 

 thrust down upon the surface, and the liquid silk at the same time 

 exuded from the spinnarets was thus caused to adhere thereto. 

 As the creature moved awa}^ the thread was run out into line and 

 gave the spider a firm attacliment. It was a question whether 

 this anchorage is alwa3's made previous to flight, and whether the 

 thread is cut immediately before the ascent? The observations 

 made all pointed to an affirmative answer; but the matter was not 

 positively settled. 



The attempt was made to follow some of the aeronauts be3'ond 

 the point of ascent. The difficulty of getting the ol)ject in posi- 

 tion relative to the sun favorable for such observation, the motion 

 of the air which carried most of the spiders upward, as well as 

 the rapidity of the flight, frustrated man}' attempts. A position 

 was finally taken beside one of the posts of the bars, which, being 

 opened, gave a point of observation with the back to the sun, the 

 eye upon the object, and a fair opportunity to follow it without 

 tiie delay of leaping over a high fence, which before had been be- 

 tween the observer and the course of the spider before the wind. 

 Fortune favored patience, and at last a spider took fliglit in a line 

 which was little higher than the face. Following the arachnid at 

 a moderate run, with the eye held closely upon it, it was observed 

 that the position of the body was soon reversed, that is, the head 

 was turned in the direction toward which the wind was blowing, 

 instead of toward the point from which it blew, as befoi'e the as- 

 cent. Thus the long thread which streamed out above the aero- 

 naut inclined forward, and at the top was in advance of its head. 

 It was also observed that the legs were spread out, and that they 

 liad been united at the feet by delicate filaments of silk. The 

 action by which this si)inning work was accomplished was not 

 noticed, owing to the smallness of the creature, the rapidity of its 

 movements, and the difficult}^ of such an exceptional mode of ob- 

 servation. But the fact was noted. The reason naturall}' sug- 

 gested for it is the increased buoyancy resulting from the increased 

 surface thus offered to the resistance of the air. 



The spider was followed for a distance of eighty feet, when it 

 gradually settled downward upon the meadow. Before, or rather 

 during this descent, a small, wliite, floss}- ball of silk was seen 

 accumulating at the mouth of the spider, which, with the peculiar 

 motion of the forefeet, palps, and mandibles, at once suggested 

 the drawing in of a tliread. This behavior is not infrequent with 

 spiders under other circumstances ; but it became especially in- 

 teresting at that moment, for at once it suggested an act of volition 

 on the part of the lycosid, b}' which it, in a measure at least, might 

 control its descent. Evidently the shortening of the overhanging 

 thread operated like the furling of sails upon a vessel, and de- 

 creasing the motion of the spider, increased the influence of gravity 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 311 



upon the bocl_v, which tlius sank toward the ground. At the same 

 time, the diminution of surface of the thread above, and the in- 

 crease of bulk at the mouth, decreased the bnoyanc}^ of the whole, 

 and allowed the creature to fall. Exactl}' the same effect was thus 

 produced b}^ the spider-aeronaut, and by a strikingl}' analogous 

 mode, as the human aeronaut accomplishes when he contracts the 

 surface of his balloon by causing the inflating gas to escape. 



Some observations were made at the same time upon the aerial 

 flights of several species of small orbweavers. These were sta- 

 tioned upon the tall grasses and weeds, from which innumerable 

 cords of spider-silk were streaming, and upon which similar 

 threads were twisted and meshed b}^ the eddies of the wind, and 

 the passing of the spiderlings from point to point. The attitude 

 of most of these was one of expectation. Only two were observed 

 in actual flight, and one of these ^fas assisted. The nearness to 

 the ground and the shelter of the surrounding herbage, ma}^ have 

 retarded the process. However, this greater deliberateness is 

 quite in harmony with the phlegmatic orbweavers, just as the 

 energy of the Lycosidse in mounting the fence, and their haste to 

 be off, is characteristic of that group, who are, indeed, in their 

 vigorous, stirring activities, quite typical Americans. The little 

 orbweavers were hanging u))on the lower part of the floating 

 strings near the point of attachment to the grass. Their backs 

 were downward and their heads outward or toward the free end 

 of the thread. The first, second, and fourth pairs of legs were 

 stretched along the thread, and the third and shortest pair were 

 held otf, curved, tlie feet apparently united to the main thread by 

 taut filaments. This position, so far as could be determined, was 

 maintained after flight. In some cases a series of two or three 

 ]Kifrs or pellets of floss were gathered around the thread between 

 its free end and the spiderling. They were generally cone-shaped, 

 the apex toward the spider. In form the}- were not unlike the 

 pellets wdiich one used to see gathering upon the roll of wool as 

 it passed from the fingers of our maternal ancestors into the 

 whirling " flyers" of an old-fashioned spinning wheel. Perhaps 

 the\- maj' have been wrought b}' a similar process, the twisting of 

 the loose thread through the action of the wind, and the counter- 

 action of the spider. 



The above observations were the most complete and satisfactory 

 which Mr. McCook had been able to make, but he referred, in 

 further illustration and confirmation of these, to the results of 

 observations and experiments of several previous 3'ears. In the 

 closing days of October, if the weather have the usual mildness 

 of that period, these aerial flights may be seen from almost any 

 open spot of country-side. The 29th of October, 1875, was espe- 

 cially remarkable for the exhibition of this habit. All the young 

 of the spider-tauna seemed to be afloat. It was like the simulta- 

 neous outbreaking among our children of the annual fury for 




312 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



special sfames, marbles, tops, jmnping rope or hoop. The air was 

 filled with floating filaments of spinning-work. Passing along 

 the public squares of Philadelphia, Mr. McCook arrested and 

 examined some of these ; the prevalent, indeed it might be said, 

 the unvarying type, was the single thread, long, with a flossy tuft 

 of irregular form, but commonly hammock-shaped, at or near the 

 middle of the line. A small dipterous insect was found entangled 

 upon one of these threads. Fairmount Park was filled with these 

 excursionists. All day long the filaments were floating across 

 the Schuylkill River, entangling with the decks and smoke-stacks 

 of passing steamboats, and with the persons of passengers and 

 crews. One of the latter caught a number of the threads, on 

 which he found small spiders, and on three threads little flies. 

 The next day Mr. McCook saw some of these attenuated balloons 

 float across the river at a height of from 60 to 70 feet, and entan- 

 gle with trees upon the high bluff. The temperature, however, 

 had fallen several degrees, and comparatively few of the aeronauts 

 were afloat. The floating filaments while in motion preserved 

 generally a crescent or horse-shoe shape, the " horns" or forks 

 nearly equal in length or not greatly unequal, and ]jointed toward 

 tiie direction of the wind. At or near the point of curvature or 

 divergence was the puff of floss or " basket" as it miglit, perhaps, 

 be called. 



Mr. McCook, in conclusion, referred to experiments which he 

 had made afield and from his stud^'-window with young spiders, 

 particularly the young of Agalena ncevia,, the speckled tubeweaver. 

 When let loose into the air from the finger-tip, the spiderlings 

 floated out by a single thread which was alwa3'S and instantly 

 first attached to the finger. At first, the head was outward, the 

 abdomen being toward the hand, from the apex of which the long 

 superior spinnerets diverged. Presently the little creature turned 

 and cast out a thread behind, when, if permitted, it would usually 

 clamber up the original tiiread to the finger. When this was 

 broken off", the spider, seated midway of the two filaments, floated 

 off and outward, and was lost to sight. Again, by an eddy of the 

 air, the thread would be thrown backward and upward and catch 

 against the wall upon which tlie little vo3-ager would anchor. At 

 other times, much to his surprise, after the tliread had been quite 

 lost to view, and the s[)ider was supposed to be far away upon its 

 flight, it would descend, as from the clouds, and send out its 

 silken grapnels against the observ'er's cheek or nose. The will of 

 the little spider seemed to have no control over these movements, 

 which apparently were always wholly at the mercy of the wind. 

 However, the manner of accomplishing the aerial flight by means 

 of the buoyanc}' of a single tliread, or rather of tvvo threads united 

 at or near the middle, was quite in accord with the methods above 

 described. Reference was also made to the remarks of other ob- 

 servers which were compared with those here given. 




18tT.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 313 



A. H. Franciseus, Henry Pemberton, Jr., Henry Cope Haines, 

 Oswald J. Heinrich, and Wm. R. Wharton were elected members. 



Dr. H. Hallowa}^, of Laporte, Ind.; Dr. Robt. Wiederslieim, of 

 Freiburg i. B.; Carl Semper, of Wiirzburg; Chas. Brongniart, of 

 Paris ; and George Bowdler Buckton, of Weycombe, Haslemere, 

 England, were elected correspondents. 



The following was ordered to be printed ; — 



21 




314 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



THE SIGNIFICANCE OF THE DIAMETERS OF THE INCISORS IN RODENTS. 

 BY JXO. A. RYDER. 



Upon making sections of the cutting or incisor teeth of various 

 species of rodents and rodent-lilve animals, it is observed that a 

 great disparity exists amongst the various forms in respect to 

 the ratio of the antero-posterior to tlieir transverse diameters. 

 This character is sufficiently marl^ed to divide the order into two 

 sharply-defined groups as follows : — 



a Incisors wider than thick ;' 



b " thicker than "wide. 



A number of species falling under the definition of group a 

 may be arranged in a series in which the final terms approach 

 group 6, thus, Ilesotherium, Lepiis, Lagornys, and Phascolomys, 

 the marsupial. In the same w'ay,a series may be arranged which 

 shall represent a gradual intensification of the character as indi- 

 cated in the definition of group &, thus, Castor, Lagoslomus, 

 Cavia, Mus, Calamodon, and AvchrppoduH, amongst Tteniodonts; 

 Sciurus and Cheii^omys, amongst primates. The curvature of 

 the upper incisors in group a is greater than in 6, that is, an arc 

 which will coincide with their curvature is the segment of a 

 smaller circle ; in both groups the curvature of the lower incisors 

 is less than that of the upper ones. In the last and extreme type 

 of group a, the antero-posterior diameter of the lower inner in- 

 cisor is to its transverse as 1 is to 3 ; converseh', in the extreme 

 forms of group 6, the antero-posterior diameter very greatl}'' ex- 

 ceeds the transverse, the ratios being as 3, or even more, is to 1. 

 These contrasts become visually apparent in the cut, where the 

 diagrams of cross-sections of incisors of rodents and rodent-like 

 animals all stand in the same position with reference to fore and 

 aft and lateral directions. 



The two groups may be further distinguished as follows: — 



a GuawiiiG; apparatus not so powerfully developed or specialized ; 

 Temporal muscles feeble, or inserted very close to condj'les ; 

 Crowns of incisors widely separated from pterygoid processes ; 

 Incisive alveoli extending as far as, or a little further back than, the 

 symphysis maudibuli. 



This grouping, it should be remembered, is entirely morphological. 




isn.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



315 



b Gnawers of hard substances ; incisors grcatlj' developed ; 



Temporal muscles and pter^vgoid processes strongly developed ; 

 Crowns of incisors relatively near pterygoid processes ; 

 (Masseters greatly developed, Cantor') ; 



Incisive alveoli extending beyond syiupliysis mandibuli, and often 

 reaching to the base of the pterygoid processes. 



The diametricall,y opposite structural characters jtointed out 

 signify more or less diametrically opposite habits. The genera 

 of group a have relatively vv^eak incisors 

 as compared with those of 6, whicli is in 

 obvious correlation with the feebleness 

 with which they manifest the gnawing 

 habit. Whatever may have been the waj'S 

 in which the \nc\sors of Me^othei-ium were 

 used, it is very evident that they could 

 never have been used in the same wa}' as 

 those of the squirrel and beaver. They 

 appear to have been wholly adapted for 

 cropping herbage, and not in the slightest 

 degree for gnawing. The Leporidse and 

 Lagomyidse with their feeble incisors 

 have also a very moderately developed 

 gnawing habit, which is in accordance 

 with the weakness of their incisive me- 

 chanism. The presence of an accessory 

 pair of incisors of weaker development 

 in the lower jaw of Mesotherium and in 

 the upper jaw of the Leporidse and Lago- 

 myidse^ the deciduous outer, upper, and 

 lower pairs in Cheiromys, the apparent 

 continuity of the incisive with the molar 

 series in the Tseniodonta, give us a hint 

 as to the probable manner in which the 

 evolution and functionalization of the 

 median anterior pair of teeth (incisors) 

 came about in the gnaAvers and aberrant 

 gnawing forms of other orders. 



It may be said, in a general wa}', that 

 the excess of the antero-posterior diame- 



a, cross-section of a lower, 

 6, of an upper, incisov of the 

 squirrel ; c, do, of a lower, 

 and d, of an upper, incisor of 

 the beaver; «, do. of an upper, 

 and/, of a lower, incisor of the 

 hare : g, cross-section of a low- 

 er incisor of Cnlamodon sim- 

 pltx (after Cope) ; h, do. of an 

 upper, and i", of a lower, incisor 

 of Oheiromyn ; J, do. of au up- 

 per incisor o{ Mesotlierinmcris- 

 tatum ; k, do. of au upper inci- 

 sor of Ccelogenyo : I, do. of an 

 upper incisor of HydrnchcBrus ; 

 m, the form of the obliquely 

 worn face of an upper incisorof 

 Phngcdlinnys ; ?J, cross-section 

 of both upper incisors of Cavia 

 aperea. The anterior portions 

 of the sections look towards the 

 left hand. 




316 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [181T. 



ter of the chisel-like incisors of group b over their transverse 

 one is in obvious correlation with the liardness of the sub- 

 stances which the}' are designed to cut. The illustrations which 

 verify this assumption are sufficiently striking to make the 

 principle clear. I will cite but four. The beaver is notorious for 

 the magnitude of tlie work he will accomplish with his busy 

 jaws and incisor teeth, wliicli are in the form of curved, sub- 

 triangular prisms : a form well adapted to secure strengtii, and 

 frequently met with amongst the cavies, porcupines, and chin- 

 chillas, though, in tlie latter, a cross-section often approaches 

 more the form of an isosceles triangle with its most acute angle 

 pointing in a backward direction. This form of tooth, of course, 

 has the same meclianical advantages to resist breaking strains as 

 that with the sides nearlj' parallel, as in the squirrel. Incisor 

 teeth, pyriform in section, are found in tlie guinea-pig and the 

 fossil Tffiuiodont Calamodon; tliis, like the last, has similar 

 mechanical advantages. The squirrel,' with its power of gnaw- 

 ing the exceedingly hard covering of nuts to obtain tlieir nutri- 

 tious contents, is a second familiar example. The destructive 

 abilities of mice and rats are due to the form of their incisors 

 and powerful masseter muscles. Lastly, Cheii'omys, the insecti- 

 vorous lemurine primate, beaver-like, gnaws open the bunow of 

 its pre}-, tlie larva? of wood-boring insects. The incisors of tliis 

 group, constructed, as they are, witli reference to the use of the 

 least amount of material, are still further strengthened by their 

 form; that is, they are curved in such a way as to cause the lines 

 of greatest strain to pass longitudinally through a great part of 

 the mass of the tooth. This end is attained in the beaver and 

 squirrel by an admirable arrangement of the masseter muscles, 

 the fibres of which are disposed in lines parallel to that of the 

 greatest strain exerted u[)on the lower incisors. This arrange- 

 ment of muscular fibres also admits of the application of the 



' One African species is reported as gnawing ivory, by M. Du Chaillu, 

 but only on the authority of the natives. He has named it on this account 

 Sciurus eborivorus (see Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Ilist. vol. vii. p. 363). 

 Prof. Cope informs me that, on the plains, the fallen antlers of deer are 

 gnawed by rodents ; and some assert that they are entirely eaten up in this 

 way, wliicli is held to account for the infrequeucy with which they are 

 ound where many thousands are annually shed. 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 317 



whole of their power without mechanical loss, which would not 

 be the case did not such parallelism exist. Whatever strain 

 passes transversely through the teeth, and which ma}' more pro- 

 perly be regarded as breaking strain, must pass through Iheir 

 long diameter; in this way tlie same mechanical advantage is 

 secured as where a builder places a horizontal beam in such a 

 position that the greatest strain shall fall through its greatest 

 diameter. 



The foregoing facts may tlien be interpreted thus : — 



1. Where the incisors are wider than thick, the gnawing habit 

 is feebly developed. 



2. Where the incisors are thicker than wide, the gnawing habit 

 is greatly developed. 



That is to sa}^, a certain manner of using the incisor teeth (to 

 gnaw) has been a continuous stimulus to which growth force has 

 been as continuously responsive. The opposite forms of develop- 

 ment have thus been the result of stimuli differing in kind and 

 degree. According to this view, plastids are brought in increased 

 numbers wherever an increased amount of work is to be done, 

 while at the same time an increased waste of structure is going 

 on, solel}' b}' the operation of the above causes, while those causes 

 are in and of themselves wlioU^- passive. Illustrations imme- 

 diately occui- to us wiiere we have the working of such principles 

 displayed: in muscular work, massage and alterations in the 

 form of parts due to the establishment of new and approximately 

 normal relations with the environment, as happens in unreduced 

 dislocations and fractures; the thickening of the epidermis of the 

 knee, as on the sole of the foot, and due, like the last, to frequent 

 and similar contact with the earth as a passive stimulus. 



The significance of accessor}^ rudimentary incisors present in 

 some forms of true rodents, as pointing to the manner in which 

 the evolution of the rodent type of dentition took place, ma}' be 

 overrated, yet, when it is borne in mind that in other groups the 

 appearance of diastemata between the different kinds of teeth 

 took place gradually, and in a way which unmistakably shows 

 the gradual steps of the process, we may be excused for thinking 

 the same to have been the case here, althougli without positive, 

 tangil)le evidence in the shape of intermediate fossil forms that 

 exhibit such a passage from the ordinary type. We have four 

 instances pointing towards a progressive functionalization of 




318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1877. 



the median pair of incisors as gnawing teetii, and this, taken 

 together with the evidence j-ielded by their forms in section, in- 

 duces us to venture the reflection that the more severe strains to 

 which they were subjected by enforced or intelligently assumed 

 changes of habit were the initiatory agents in causing them to 

 assume their pi'esent forms — such forms as were best adapted to 

 resist great strain without breaking. I am aware that this rela- 

 tion between function and structure, in the case of the incisors of 

 rodents, has been pointed out long since, but it seems to have 

 been coldly received by most anatomists, perhaps because not in 

 accordance with the theory of special creations. Not wishing to 

 discuss the merits of such an objection, it seems to us far more 

 reasonable to believe that organisms are gradually shaped (modi- 

 fied, transmuted) by forces under the surveillance of an orderly 

 reign of law, i.e., to a series of mechanical causes producing 

 morphological effects, tlian to resort to an endless chain of special 

 expedients to account for the facts. 



In respect to the changes in the mandibular articulation and 

 muscular motor apparatus of the jaws of Hodentia, I venture to 

 suggest that these have had an origin similarly due to enforced 

 or intelligently assumed changes in the mode in which their 

 functions were exercised. The molar teeth have also been modi- 

 fied hy the same agency, as will be shown elsewhere. 




ISTY.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 319 



December 4. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-nine members present. 



On the Introduction and Disappearance of Plants. — Mr. Isaac 

 C. Martindale spoke of the appearance of plants in certain locali- 

 ties, where, heretofore, they had not been detected, and of their 

 disappearance from sections where formerl)' they were quite plen- 

 tiful. He stated that Finns mitis was at one time abundant 

 in this region, and extended northward into New England ; but 

 that it was believed now to have entirely disappeared from its 

 northern localities, and it was thought by some persons to have dis- 

 appeared from New Jersey also ; he had, however, detected one tree 

 near Gloucester City tlie past summer, and had recently found 

 on a high edge of ground near Moorestown a strip of woodland, 

 which contained a targe number of trees, nearly all of which were 

 from eighty to one hundred feet in height, and eighteen inches or 

 more in diameter at the base ; a few trees of the same species were 

 growing in an adjoining field, where, the owner of the land in- 

 formed him, grain had been harvested in the early part of the pre- 

 sent century, showing the growth of wood to have been very rapid. 

 On examining these trees he found evidence of a periodicity in 

 their fruiting ; it being well known that the species of pines in 

 this section require two years to perfect their fruit. This year a 

 considerable number of cones had set on the branches, but those 

 which formed last year, and were now full grown, were very few 

 indeed, and the mass of cones which were first noticed were chiefly 

 those which matured last year or before, and had long since opened 

 and discharged all of their seed. As is well understood among 

 farmers and nurserymen, apple-trees do not produce abundantly 

 ever}' year, but seem to have periods of great fruitfulness. He 

 thought a similar condition existed in Finns mitis, which might 

 be ottered as one reason for its gradual disappearance, it being evi- 

 dent in view of the doctrine of "the survival of the fittest" that a 

 tree which formed fruit once in two years, which fruit required 

 two years to come to maturity, could not maintain a position 

 as if the conditions were otherwise. Should any of the occur- 

 rences of early or late frosts, severe drought, an extreme degree 

 of rain-fall, prevail on the fruit-bearing years, which would not be 

 an unusual thing, it is apparent that the chances of perpetuating 

 its kind would be lessened in a corresponding degree. As evi- 

 dence of these conditions having to some extent existed in the 

 past he found that but very few of the seeds which have been per- 

 fected had germinated so as to produce young trees ; the greater 




320 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



part of the trees now standing appeared to be on the decline, and 

 when they are gone there is but little to build a hope on for a suc- 

 cession of the same species. 



Circum^jjection of Ants. — Professor Leidy remarked that, a 

 numl)er of years ago, he had been led to an observation on the 

 little red ant, sometimes a great pest to our dwellings, which 

 would indicate a ready disposition to become circumspect. When 

 he purchased his present residence, while it was undergoing some 

 repairs, he noticed a fragment of bread, left by a workman in one 

 of the second-story rooms, swarming with ants. Apprehending 

 that the house was seriously infested, to ascertain whetlier it was so 

 he placed a piece of sweet cake in ever}'^ room from the cellar to the 

 attic. At noon every piece was found covered with ants. Having 

 l)rovided a cup of turpentine oil, each piece was picked up with 

 forceps and tlie ants tapped into the oil. The cake was replaced, 

 and in the evening Avas again found covered with ants. The same 

 j)rocess was gone through the following two days, morning, noon, 

 and night. The third day tlic number of ants had greatly dimin- 

 ished, and on the fourth there were none. He at lirst supposed 

 the ants had all been destro^yed, but in the attic he observed a 

 few feasting on some dead house flies, which led him to suspect 

 that the remaining ants had become suspicious of the sweet cake. 

 He accordingly distributed through the house pieces of bacon, 

 which were afterwards found swarming with ants. This was re- 

 peated with the same result for several days, wlien, in like manner 

 with the cake, the ants linally censed to visit the bacon. Pieces 

 of ciieese were next tried, witii the same results; but with an un- 

 doubted thinning in the multitude of ants. When the cheese 

 proved no longer attractive, recollecting the feast on dead flies in 

 the attic, dead grasshoppers were supplied from the garden. These, 

 again, proved too much for the ants; and, after a few days' trial, 

 neither grasshoppers nor anything else attracted them ; they ap- 

 pear to have been thorouglily exterminated, nor has the house 

 since been infested with them. 



December 11. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-six members present. 



December 18. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-nine members present. 

 The death of John McAllister, Jr., was announced. 




18V7.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 321 



A Dog with Suj^ernumerary Toes. — Mr. Ryder remarked that 

 he had recently seen a dog with five toes on l)()th iiind feet, but 

 upon a careful examination it was found that the metattnsals of 

 the extra inner toes were entirely absent, there being no ap[)arent 

 vestige of a nietapodial ossification in the pouch of skin that sup- 

 ported the distal ungual bone with its nail and that connected 

 these with the tarsus. They seemed to hang rather loosely, and 

 to be rather in the Avay than of any use. In the absence of meta- 

 tarsals, and indeed of all appearance of ossifications, except the 

 ungual ones, they differed from somewhat similar abnormal con- 

 formations of feet in dogs, figured in PeBlainville's Osleographie^ 

 where one is represented with six toes, there being two extra 

 inner ones. 



Bfiizopods in an Apple-tree — .Professor Leidy remarked that, a 

 couple of weeks ago, at Swarthmore, while waiting for the railway 

 train to return home, his attention was attracted to a large apple- 

 tree which, shortly before, had been prostrated by a storm. In 

 the fork of the trunk there was a bunch of moss which he collected 

 and took home. On washing the moss and examining the water, 

 be was not a little surprised to find in it many rhizopods. Of 

 these, one was Difflitgia cassis^ and was abundant. Another was 

 DifPugia gJohulariK, few in number. The others were lYivema 

 aci)iui<, Eugbjpha alveolala^ and Eiighjpha hmnnea. The position 

 of these animals, in the moss on the tree, was about eight feet from 

 the around. 



December 25. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Fifty-five members present. 




322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18T7. 



The following reports were read and referred to tiie Publication 

 Committee : — 



REPORT OF THE PRESIDENT FOR THE YEAR 

 ENDING NOVEMBER 30, 1877. 



It is well known that the Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Pliiladclphia had its origin in an opinion of its founders that the 

 association of those disposed to devote tlieir spare hours to a 

 study of natural objects and the laws under Avhich tlie}' exist, 

 would be advantageous to all wdio might engage in it. Their 

 purpose was to form a societ}- composed of persons who desired 

 to acquire knowledge, and impart it to each other and the public. 

 The founders believed that a union of those whose tastes were 

 alike in this sense would be a source from which each member 

 might derive something which, separatel}', they might not be able 

 to gain. Any one desirous to learn, or willing to assist others to 

 learn, was, and is still, considered eligible to membership; no de- 

 gree of proficiency in natural science was or is an essential qualifi- 

 cation. 



The Society assumed the name of Academy because it signifies 

 a place to learn, a school, a resort of learners. 



From its foundation the Academy began to form a librarj'^ and 

 collections of natural objects for the common use of its members, 

 as well as of others interested in the acquisition and diffusion of 

 knowledge of the works of the creation. To acquire and increase 

 the means of facilitating the labors of students has always been a 

 priniar}' object. Its members are all volunteers, willing to give 

 money, or time, or labor' for tlie advancement of the common 

 cause. The work they have done has alwa3's been spontaneous, 

 self-imposed, and, in its ultimate object, benevolent and charita- 

 ble, if it be charitable to add to the stock of knowledge for the 

 free and common use of mankind. 



Very many are indebted to this Academy' for initiation into 

 paths which have conducted them to distinguished positions in 

 scientific explorations and surveys, in colleges and universities, 

 positions which they might not have been able to qualify' them- 

 selves to fill without those facilities of study which this institu- 




18TT.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323 



tion affords freel}^ to 3'oung aspirants. A list of names of tliose 

 wlio liave become distinguished naturalists through the agency of 

 tliis Society, would indicate the extent of benefit it has conferred 

 in this sense. 



That the course heretofore pursued by the Academy has been 

 generally satisfactory is proved by the liberal contributions of 

 materials and money which it has received from time to time 

 from ver}"- man}' of our public-spirited fellow citizens. It seems 

 reasonable to suppose that observance of the general policy which 

 has been successful in the past is calculated to secure the confi- 

 dence and encouragement of the public in the future, upon which 

 the continued prosperity of the society mainl}- depends. 



I have the pleasure to state that during the past j-ear the 

 general progress of the Academ}^ has been stead}-, tranquil, and 

 satisfactor}'. The attendance at the stated meetings indicates 

 that interest in scientific investigations has not abated. The 

 average number of members present at each meeting through the 

 3'ear is thirtj'-two. The extent and value of work done by the 

 members may be fairly estimated by reference to the published 

 record of Proceedings. 



Through exchanges with kindred societies, the liberality of 

 authors and editors, and the beneficence of tlie I. V. Williamson 

 Library Fund, and the Thomas B. Wilson Library Fund, nu- 

 merous and valuable additions to the library have been made. 

 The number of members and others who consult the librarj-, it is 

 believed, has increased. 



More than five thousand persons, besides those introduced bj- 

 members or otherwise, have visited the museum, to which man}- 

 valuable gifts have been made. 



The stead}' growtli of the museum clearly indicates that the 

 building should be completed as soon as practicable. In this 

 connection a committee was appointed in February to apply to 

 the State of Pennsylvania for assistance. The application made 

 was not successful, but it is hoped that at the approaching 

 session of the Legislature the claims of the Academy to the fos- 

 tering care of the State will be favorably considered. 



I respectfully suggest that the invitation given last December 

 to the executive officers of the State and members of the Legis- 

 lature individually to visit the museum and library as frequently 

 during the year as might be agreeable to them, should be re- 




324 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1877. 



newed, that they ma.y have oppovtnnit}' to become acquainted 

 with the cliaracter of the institution by personal observation. 



The officers and members of the Zoological Society of Philadel- 

 phia liave been invited to participate in the proceedings at the 

 stated meetings of the Academ}-^ whenever tliey might desire to 

 submit for consideration any subject of zoological interest. 



At the stated meeting of tlie Council in April, Dr. J. Gibbons 

 Hunt, on tlie unanimous nomination of the Biological and Micro- 

 scopic Section of the Academy, was duly elected Professor of 

 Histology and Microscopic Teclmology. 



Early in May, Professor Hunt formed a small class, and de- 

 livered a course of lectures whicli were well received; the fees 

 paid on account of them were not equal to the necessary expen- 

 dilure. 



This experiment has demonstrated, in my opinion, that the 

 scheme of establisliing professorships and systematic teaching in 

 connection with them, cannot be realized until endowments suffi- 

 cient to defray incidental expenses and compensate the professors 

 have been provided. The purpose of the proi)osed professorships 

 is to enable the incumbents ol them to devote their whole time to 

 advance the interests of science by taking entire charge of the 

 collections pertinent to their respective departments, by engaging 

 in original research, and by giving S3stematic courses of instruc- 

 tion. To enalile them to do this, the}' should receive compensa- 

 tion sufficient to render them independent of an}' other employ- 

 ment for a livelihood. Persons properly qualified to fill these 

 proposed positions are not likely to be engaged at an annual 

 salary of less than from two to three thousand dollars. It is vain 

 to expect the plan to be realized, desirable as it is, until ample 

 means are i)rovided. 



The Sections of the Academy are now performing some of the 

 duties assigned by the By-laws to the professors. They relieve 

 the Curators of the details of arrangement and classification of 

 those departments of the museum which are appropriate to their 

 respective pursuits. 



In January the Mineralogical Section, and in February the 

 Physics and Chemistry Section were formed and accepted by the 

 Academ}'. 



At present there are six Sections of the Academy, namely — 



The Biological and Microscopic Section. 




187Y.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 325 



The Coiichological Section. 



The Entomological Section. 



The Botanical Section. 



The Mineralogical Section. 



The Ph^-sics and Chemistfy Section, 



A list of the members and correspondents of the Academy, 

 made np to June 30, 1877, lias been i)rinted and distributed. 

 Although unusual care was taken in tlie preparation of this list, 

 it is not presumed to be free from errors. Probabl}' there are 

 names misspelled, some omitted, and some retained wliicli should 

 not be. 



On the 30th of June, 1877, it is believed the number of living 

 members was 835, and, as far as ascertained, the number of living 

 correspondents 507. Of these, 297 are foreign, and 210 are resi- 

 dents of the United States. 



During the year 43 members have been elected, 18 have re- 

 signed, and 12 have died, indicating an increase of 13 members. 



The number of correspondents elected during the same period 

 is 71. The death of 7 has been reported. It is conjectured, how- 

 ever, that some have died whose demise has not been communi- 

 cated to the Society. 



The attention of members and correspondents is respectfully 

 invited to this list, and tlie^- are requested to report to the Record- 

 ing or to the Corresponding Secretary such errors as they may dis- 

 cover in it. If they will report also changes of residence or i)ost- 

 offlce address tliey will contribute largely towards rendering future 

 editions of the list accurate. 



The Biological and Microscopic Section of the Academy held 

 an annual exhibition on Monday evening, November 19th. About 

 300 objects were shown under 120 microscopes, many of which are 

 remarkable for perfection of construction. The museum was open 

 on the occasion. It is estimated that not less than 3000 visitors 

 were present during the evening. 



The financial condition of the Society is alwa3^s interesting. I 

 have the pleasure to state that at present the Academy is free of 

 debt. But its resources do not insure its freedom from pecuniary 

 inconvenience, nor authorize indifference to the wnys and means 

 of providing sufficiently for future wants. 



It is well known that the origin, progress, and present condition 

 of the society are due to the benevolence and charity of many in- 




326 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18V 7. 



telligent and liberal individuals exerted in its favor in the course 

 of the past sixty-five years. All the possessions of the institution 

 are from charity, and they are all used for tlie charitable purpose 

 of increasing and diffusing knowledge of the natural sciences. 



The library and museum have acquired such sturdy proportions 

 that their preservation and maintenance require now a very con- 

 siderable annual expenditure, which must increase with their 

 growth. Properly' cataloguing the continuous additions to the 

 library, and promptly mounting, labelling, and displaying speci- 

 mens in the museum as fast as presented, can no longer be safely 

 confided to volunteer and gratuitous labor alone. Tliere is con- 

 stant occupation for two or more experts, for whom a reasonable 

 compensation is essential. 



Janitors must be paid. Fuel, light, water-rent, freight, station- 

 ery, repairs, etc. etc., amount to a considerable sum in the aggre- 

 gate. 



Exclusive of trust and special funds, the semi-annual dues of 

 members and the small fee demanded from the general public for 

 admission to the museum are the chief resources of the Academy. 

 Tlipy have not been equal to the current expenses of the year. 



The Council has not been inattentive to the Academy's pecu- 

 niary condition. As precautionary measures the current expenses 

 were carefullj' examined and reduced as much as was deemed 

 fairly practicable; and a circular was addressed to the members 

 individually, asking contributions towards raising means to meet 

 an estimated deficiency. This appeal has been liberally answered 

 by the generous, and it is confidently believed that all demands 

 against the Society will be promptl}^ satisfied. 



Measures should be devised to avoid the necessity of resorting 

 to such expedients in the next and subsequent years. It is pos- 

 sible that annual appeals for help may weary the community. 

 The ordinary income should at least equal, if not exceed, the neces- 

 sary expenditure. 



Exclusive of the expenditures on account of increase of the 

 library, and the publication of the Journal and Proceedings of 

 the Academy, the annual expenses necessaril}' exceed $5000. 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 327 



The estimated annufil income is — 



From members' dues $3890 



" initiation fees 300 



" admission to the museum 500 



" Thos. B. Wilson fund, towards hbrarian's salary 300 



$3990 



The annual income is not uniform]}' equal. Some members have 

 failed to pay their dues for tiiis .year, and some for several \'ears 

 past, a failure which maybe possibly ascribed in part to the gene- 

 ral stagnation of business that has so long prevailed in the com- 

 munity. 



It is presumed that the dues required from members, if punc- 

 tually paid, will defray the current expenses, and enable the 

 Academy to secure to them the privileges of membership without 

 additional liability. Life-members, that is, those who commute 

 the semi-annual dues by a single payment, are entitled to the same 

 privileges. 



If all members were to avail themselves of the right to become 

 life-members, an important source of income would become ex- 

 tinguished, and, for a time, the Academy might find it difficult, if 

 not impossible, to provide the waj's and means to meet its neces- 

 sary expenses. But it would not be released from its implied 

 obligation to members to secure to them their stipulated privi- 

 leges (By-laws, Chapter TX.). 



The economical or personal advantages of life-membership 

 become apparent from an examination of the list of members. 

 The cost of a life-membership is equivalent to the paj'ment of ten 

 3'ears' dues. 



The printed list shows that — 



5 have been members between GO and 65 years. 



10 " " 



15 " " 



39 " 



124 " " 



285 " " 



3G7 " " 



Four hundred and sixty-eight members, or more than one-half 

 of the whole number, have survived their election considerably 

 beyond ten years. 




328 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [IStt. 



The advantage of life-membership is so evident, that it may be 

 expected that all wlio are able will avail themselves of it. As 

 long as the moneys received for life-memberships are securely 

 funded they are no less advantageous to the Academy than to the 

 member. If spent as fast as paid they serve to diminish an im- 

 portant source of revenue without lessening the expenditure, or 

 obligations of the Academy to its members. 



Prior to May, 18*76, mone3's received for life-memberships were 

 expended. At that time a by-law was enacted which directs that 

 they shall be funded. It is evident that a perennial income of five 

 or six per cent, from a fee of life-membersliip securely invested is 

 fully equivalent to the semi-annual dues, the payment of which 

 necessarily ceases on the resignation or death of the member. 

 Had the Academ}' been able to invest all fees for life-membership 

 paid since its origin, a fund would have been accumulated by this 

 time, the income from which would be sufficient to render appeals 

 to members for aid to meet current expenses unnecessary. 



Tliere is a hope of pecuniar}- comfort in the future. It is esti- 

 mated that at least eight life-memberships will be paid every 

 year, and that the fund arising tiierefrom will ultimately yield 

 sufficient to relieve the Society from the difficulty of pa3'ing its 

 current expenses. 



It may be considered expedient at a future time to invest the 

 initiation fees with the life-memberships, and, in this manner, 

 create a curator's fund. 



In conclusion, I recommend members not to rely exclusivel}' on 

 the State to supply means to complete the building. The build- 

 ing-fund at tliis time amounts to $2083. It is believed that, not- 

 withstanding the unpropitious condition of the times, continuous 

 efforts by the members and friends of the Academy to procure 

 individual contributions to the fund will secure its growth until 

 it is sufficient to warrant resumption of the work of construction. 

 Perseverance generally leads to success in every laudable enter- 

 prise : let us hope that it may not be wanting or fail in this one. 

 Respectfully submitted, 



W. S. W. RUSCHENBERGER, 



F7r.sident. 




18tV.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 329 



RErORT OF RECORDING SECRETARY. 



The Recording Secretary respectfully reports that during the 

 year ending Nov. 30, 187 T, forty-three members and sevent3--one 

 correspondents were elected. 



Eighteen members resigned, as follows : C. H. Howell, F. W. 

 J. Wylie, De Forrest Willard, E. K. Tryon, Jr., J. J. Sinnickson, 



C. P. Sinnickson, T. Sinnickson, Jr., John Thompson, Christian 

 Febiger, G. A. Nicholls, B, A. Lewis, H. H. Smith, James Tyson, 

 B. B. Comegys, J. E. Mears, J. W. Leeds, and W. H. Castle. 



The deaths of twelve members and seven correspondents were 

 announced. They have been duly recorded in the published pro- 

 ceedings. 



Twenty-nine papers have been presented for publication, as fol- 

 lows: E. Goldsmith 3, Rev. H. C. McCook 2, John A. Ryder 2, 



D. S. Jordan 2, D. S. Jordan and C. H Gilbert 1, D. S. Jordan 

 and A. W. Brayton 1, Jacob Ennis 1, Jas. Lewis 1, E. D. Cope 1, 

 T. A. Conrad 1, H. W. Henshaw 1, M. C. Cooke 1, Isaac Burk 1, 

 A. W. Vodges 1, Geo. Hay 1, Wra. F. Bundy 1, Theo. Gill and J. 

 F. Bransford 1, W. H. Dall 1, H. C. Yarrow 1, Burt G. Wilder 1, 

 J.A.Allen 1, Theo. D. Rand 1, John Ford 1, and Wm. G. Mazyck 

 1. Twentj'-eight of these have been printed in the Proceedings, 

 and one remains to be reported on. 



One hundred and seventj^-six pages of the Proceedings for 

 1876, and two hundred and eighty pages for 1877 have been issued, 

 the former being illustrated by eleven plain, and the latter by one 

 plain and one colored lithograph. 



There were but two meetings during the ^-ear at which verbal 

 communications were not made. The speakers were Messrs. 

 Leidy, McCook, Meehan, Koenig, Cope, Blake, Goldsmith, Will- 

 cox, Yaux, Frazer, Young, Coates, Martindale, Foote, Hawkins, 

 Chapman, Leconte, Cross, Morris, Redfield, Haldeman, Chatard, 

 Ashburner, Rothrock, Brown, Lawrence Smith, Dougherty, Hunt, 

 I^and, Ford, Chase, Peale, Ennis, McQuillen, Ryder, Thomas, A. 

 H. Smith, Trotter, Reed, Jeanes, Lewis, and others. The more 

 important of these communications have been reported for the 

 Proceedings and published. 



Art. YIIL, Chapter I., of the By-laws was amended by the ad- 

 22 




330 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



ditlou of the words, " Provided that no Professor or Assistant 

 Professor in the Academ}- shall occupy the position of Councillor 

 — those who are ex-officio members of Council excepted." 



Twenty-nine complete sets of Mr. Isaac Lea's valuable publica- 

 tions on Conchology and Geology, and about 332 surplus volumes 

 of his " Observations on the Genus Unio," have been presented to 

 the Society by the author. Mr. Charles F. Parker has carefully 

 arranged the loose sheets and plates of which this valuable gift 

 was composed into volumes, and thej' have been added to the list 

 of publications offered for sale by the Academy. 



Dr. J. G. Hunt having resigned from the Council in consequence 

 of his election to the position of Professor of Histology and 

 Microscopic Technology, Mr. S. Fisher Corlies was elected to fill 

 the vacancy on May 29. 



All of which is respectfully submitted. 



Edward J. Nolan. 



REPORT OF CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 



The Corresponding Secretarj' makes the following report of the 

 business of his office during the past year, ending Nov. 30, 1877. 



Letters of transmission from other societies or bodies . 56 



Letters of acknowledgment 61 



Miscellaiieous correspondence ...... 21 



Acknowledgments from correspondents . . . .20 



Letters written by order of the Academy .... 4 



Correspondents notified of their election . . . .77 



Acknowledgments for donations to Museum . . . 218 



In addition to the above mentioned, numerous letters of a tri- 

 vial nature have been received and answered, containing inquiries 

 concerning admission to the museum, others offering valueless curi- 

 osities for sale at immense prices, and so on. These have not 

 been brought before the Academj^ for obvious reasons. There have 

 also been received a number of pamphlets and volumes from cor- 

 respondents, all of which have been placed in the library. 



The following letters have been received acknowledging the 

 receipt of Journal and Proceedings. 



Jan. 2. Cincinnati Society of Nat. Hist. 



Museum of Comp. Zoology, Cambridge, Mass. 

 American Antiquarian Society, New Vork. 




187Y.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 331 



Jan. 9. Cincinnati Society of Nat. Hist. 



Yale College Library. 

 Jan. 23. Royal Universitj^ Library, Strasburg. 

 Poughkeepsie Society of Nat. Hist. 

 Eoyal Bavarian Academy, Munich, 

 Literary and Philosophical Society of Liverpool. 

 Royal University of Wiirzburg. 

 Ro3'al Society of Sciences of Upsal. 

 Jan. 30. Imperial Botanical Garden, St. Petersburg, Russia. 



Heidelburg University. 

 Feb. 13. California Academy of Sciences. 



Feb. 20. Franklin Institute acknowledging loan for Centennial Exhibition. 

 Mar. 20. Chicago Acad. Sciences. 

 Mar. 27. American Geographical Society, New York. 

 University of the State of New York. 

 Society of Natural History and Medicine, Giessen. 

 April 8. Natural History Society of Basel. 

 California Academy of Sciences. 

 Royal Societj^ of Sciences, Gottingen. 

 Royal Danish Academy of Sciences, Copenhagen. 

 April 10. Royal Botanic Garden, Edinburgh. 

 April 24. Brazilian Legation, New York. 



Boston Societ)' of Nat. Hist. 

 May 22. Smithsonian Institution. 

 May 29. Royal Grand Ducal Institute of Luxembourg. 



Royal Society of London ; asking for supply of deficiencies. 

 May 1. Yale College Library. 

 June 19. Edinburgh Geological Society. 

 Royal Society of Edinburgh. 

 Statistical Society, London. 

 June 26. Belfast Natural History and Philos. Soc. 

 July 3. Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences. 



Royal Superior Technical Institute of Milan. 

 July 17. Mus. Comp. Zoology, Cambridge. 



July 3. Royal Bohemian Society of Sciences of Prague ; asks deficiencies. 

 July 10. Academy of Natural Sciences, Catania. 

 July 17. Linnpean Society of Bordeaux; asks deficiencies. 



Quarterly Journal of Conchology. 

 July 24. Royal Norwegian Society of Sciences of Throndhjem. 

 July 31. Chicago Academy of Sciences. 

 Aug. 7. Royal Society of New South Wales. 

 Royal Geological Society of Ireland. 

 Aug. 14. Museum of Natural History of Carinthia. 



Smithsonian Institution, Washington. 

 Aug. 28. British ^luseum, London. 



South African Museum, Cape Town. 




332 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1817. 



Aug. 28 Yale College Library. 



California Academy of Sciences. 

 Sept. 11. Royal Society of New South Wales ; asks exchange. 

 Oct. 2. Royal Academy, Palermo. 



Society for Promotion of Scientific Research, Hamburg. 

 Oct. 16. Academy of Science and Literature of Montpellier ; asks de- 

 ficiencies. 



Natural History Society, Dantzig. 



Natural History Society, Frankfurt a. M. 



Natural History Society, Augsburg. 



Society for Native Natural History, Wiirttemburg. 

 Oct. 30. New Zealand Institute. 

 Nov. 13. Royal Society of Edinburgh. 

 Nov. 27. Worcester Lyceum of Nat. Hist. 



Natural History Society of Freiburg. 



Academia Regia Lynceorum, Rome. 



Royal Society of New South Wales. 



Yale College Library. 



Museum Teyler, Harlem. 



The following letters announce the sending of publications to 

 the Academy. 



Jan. 23. Ksl. Leop. Carol. Acad., Dresden; asks for deficiencies. 



Board of Direction of the Ferdinandeum at Inspruck. 



Royal Bavarian Acad., Munich. 



Acad, of Science and Letters of Montpellier, France ; asks de- 

 ficiencies. 



Royal Society of Sciences, Upsal. 



Manchester Literary and Philos. Society ; asks deficiencies. 

 Jan. 30. Imperial Botanical Garden, St. Petersburg, Russia. 



Royal Society of New South Wales, Sydney. 



Portuguese Centennial Commission ; asks exchange. 

 Feb. 6. West Riding Geological and Polytechnic Soc, England. 



British Museum, London, Eng. 

 Mar. 6. Department of State, Washington, sending " the Draining of Lake 

 Fucino," accomplished by H. £. Prince Alex. Torlouio, Rome, 

 1876. 

 April 3. Linnsean Society of Bordeaux. 



Natural History Society of Toulouse, France. 



National Society of Agriculture, Nat. Hist., and Useful Arts, 

 Lyons, France ; asks deficiencies. 



Society of Natural History and Medicine, Geissen. 



Royal Academy of Sciences of Vienna. 



Natural Historj'^ Society of Halle. 



Natural History Society of Hamburg. 



Physico-Medical Society of Erlangen. 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 333 



April 24. Royal Academy of Sciences, Vienna. 



May 1. Academy of Natural Sciences, Catania, sending a memorial 



diploma, and medal. 



British Museum, London, Eng. 

 May 8. Society for the Encouragement of Horticulture, Berlin. 

 May 23. Medical Society of Frankfurt a. M. 



Belgian Microscopical Society ; desires exchanges. 



Natural History Society of Leipzig. 



Royal Academy of Sciences of Amsterdam. 



Catholic University of Louvaiu ; returns a duplicate. 



Ksl. Leop. Carol. Acad. ; desires deficiencies. 

 July 3. K. K. Geological Botanical Society of Vienna. 

 July 10. Ksl. Leop. Carol. Academy of Dresden. 



Geological Society of India. 

 July 17. Society for the DiiTusion of a Knowledge of Natural History, 



Vienna. 

 July 3. Royal Bohemian Society of Sciences of Prague. 

 July 24. Royal Norwegian University of Christiania. 



Natural History Society of Bamberg. 

 July 31. Netherland -Zoological Society. 



British Museum, London. 

 Aug. 14. Museum of Natural History of Carinthia. 

 Sept. 11. Royal Society of New South Wales. 



Secretary of State of New Hampshire. 

 Oct. 16. Academy of Science and Literature, Montpellier. 



National Museum, Mexico. 



California Geological Society sends specimens. 



Natural History Society, Dantzig. 



Bavarian Academy of Sciences, announcing also the discon- 

 tinuance of a publication. 



Royal Academy, Stockliolm. 



Royal Hungarian Society, Budapest. 



Norwegian Museum. 



Natural History Society, Frankfurt a. M. 



Royal Zoological Societj', Amsterdam. 



Society for Native Natural History, Wiirttemburg. 

 Oct. 23. Dorpat Natural History Society. 



K. K. Zoological Botanical Society, Vienna. 



Physical Central Observatory, St. Petei'sburg. 

 Nov. 27. Batavian Societ}^ of Experimental Philosophy, Rotterdam. 



Zoological Mineralogical Society, Regensburg. 



Medical Society of Frankfurt a. M. 



Natural History Society of Toulouse. 



Academia Regia Lynceorum, Rome. 



Natural History Society,. Freiburg. 




334 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [ISTT. 



Miscellaneous Correspondence received : — 



Feb. 6. National Institute of France, desiring deficiencies. 

 Feb. 16. Marshal J. Burdge, Allamuchy, N. J., making general inquiries. 

 Feb. 27. Emmet Crawford, Lieut. U. S. A., desiring advantages of 

 Museum. 



Natural History Club, Vienna, notice of formation. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia, thanks for invitation. 



Dr. Emil Bessels, Washington, concerning Eskimo skulls. 



Chas. A. Kessehnyer, concerning CalendariumPerpetuum Mobile. 



J. G. Cooper, M.D., Cal., offering sale of specimens. 



Royal Academj' of Sciences, Berlin, desiring missing volumes. 



Wisconsin Academy of Sciences, desiring to receive exchanges. 



Royal Botanic Garden of Edinburgh, desiring exchange. 



Thos. M. Brewer, of Boston, desires publications for the Museo 

 Civico di Storia Natural! di Genoa. 



Chas. A. B. Hall, Ann Arbor, Mich., regarding Woodruff Ex- 

 pedition. 



Harvey Fisher, Philadelphia, concerning certificate. 



Royal University of Strasburg, desiring deficiencies. 



John W. Taylor, Leeds, Eng., desiring certain publications. 



Zoological and Botanical Society of Helsiugfors, desiring ex- 

 change. 

 Sept. 13. S. Brusina, Agram, Austria, desiring certain papers. 



Prof. Percival de Loriol, Geneva, concerning diploma. 



Royal Zool. Soc. Amsterdam, desiring deficiencies. 

 Nov. 13. Dr. H. Scheflier, Braunschweig, sending publications. 

 Nov. 27. Publishers of Obst- und Garten-Zeiting, asking exchange in 1878. 



Central Meteorological Observatory, Mexico, asking exchange. 



Geological Reiclisanstalt, Vienna, asking deficiencies. 



Prof. Thos. R. Eraser, correcting an error in list of Correspondents. 



Letters, acknowledging election as Correspondents, have been 

 received from : — 



Prof. Dr. P. Groth, Strasburg, Dec. 17, 1876. 



N. S. Maskelyne, London, Dec. 20, 1876. 



George Rolleston, Oxford, Eng., Dec. 29, 1876. 



Juan J. Marin, Philadelphia, Feb. 7, 1877. 



Dom Pedro D'Alcantara, New York, March 20, 1877, by A. P. 



de Carvalho Borges. 

 Lieut. A. W. Vodges, Charleston, April 8, 1877. 

 L. G. de Koninck, Liege, April 23, 1877. 

 Prof. Alphonse Favre, Geneva, April 23, 1877. 

 Percival de Loriol, Geneva, April 22, 1877. 

 Lieut. -General A. Gadolin, St. Petersburg. 

 H. Trautschold, Moscow. 

 A. S. Packard, Jr., M.D., Salem, Mass., May 10, 1877. 




IST?.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 335 



Valerian von MoUer, May 3, 1877. 



L. Rutimeyer, Basel, :May 12, 1877. 



N. de Kokscharow, St. Petersburg, May 19, 1877, 



E. Desor, Neucbatel, June 1, 1877. 



Baron Ferdinand von Riclithofen, Berlin, June 10, 1877. 



Dr. F. von Hochstetter, Vienna, June 25, 1877. 



Daniel C. Eaton, New Haven, Oct. 26, 1877, 



A. M. Owen, M.D., U. S. N., Aug. 22, 1877. 



Andrew Murraj', London, Oct. 30, 1877. 



Dr. Philip de la Harpe, Lausanne, Oct. 31, 1877. 



P. Martin Duncan, London, Nov 1, 1877. 



Edw, von Mojcisovics, Vienna, Nov. 4, 1877. 



John W. Judd, Loudon, Oct. 31, 1877. 



J. Gosselet, Lille, Nov. 13, 1877. 



J. J. Collenot, Semur, Nov. 3, 1877. 



"W. Boyd Dawkins, Manchester, Nov. 7, 1877. 



Franz Toula, Vienna, Nov. 1, 1877. 



William Whitaker, London, Nov. 7, 1877. 



Prof. J. G. Rein, Marburg, Oct. 31, 1877. 



Dionys Stur, Vienna, Nov. 1, 1877. 



J. Bastian, Berlin, Nov. 3, 1877. 



Dr. Carl Arendts, Munich, Nov. 12, 1877. 



Count August Frederic Marschall, Vienna, Nov. 3, 1877. 



Henri Coquand, Marseilles, Nov. 13, 1877. 



Respectfully submitted, 



George H. Horn, M.D., 



Corresponding Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN, 



I had the pleasure of announcing in my last annual report that 

 the number of additions to the library for the j-ear ending Nov. 

 30, 1816, was greater than that of any other j'ear with one excep- 

 tion. The record for the twelve months ending Nov. 30, 1877, 

 shows a still greater increase, the additions during that period 

 numbering 2698, or 207 more than were received in 1876. 



Of these accessions 849 were volumes, 1839 pamphlets and 

 parts of periodicals, and 10 maps, charts, photographs, etc.; 2049 

 were octavos, 540 quartos, 51 duodecimos, and 48 folios. 



They were derived from the following sources : — 



I. V. "Williamson Fund . . . 787 ] Heirs of the late Dr. Jos. Carson 195 



Societies 712 Wilson Fund 79 



Editors 439 Rathmell Wilson 67 



Authors 216 1 Connarroe Fund 33 




336 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[isn. 



H. C. Coates . • 23 



Department of the Interior . . 22 



Publishers 9 



Portuguese Centennial Commis- 

 sion 9 



Minister of Public Instruction, 



Spain 8 



Lauren Qo Malbeiro 7 



Treasury Department .... 7 



War Department 7 



Minister" of Public Works, in 



France 6 



Same, through W. S. Vaux . . 9 



Isaac Bnrk 5 



F. V. Hay den 5 



Smithsonian Institution ... 5 



F. B. Hough 



Geological Survey of Penna. . 4 



Mexican Government .... 4 

 New South Wales Centennial 



Commission 4 



Bureau of Education .... S 



British Museum 2 



G. H. Cook 2 



Dr. G. M. Levette 2 



J. H. Redfield ...... 2 



Tasmanian House of Assemb'y 2 



U. S. Commission of Fish and 

 Fisheries 



Messrs. Walch & Son .... 



Dr. Geo. Bennett . . . ... 



Jas. L. Claffhom 



The late T.^A. Conrad . . . 



Corporation of the City of Lauu- 

 cestown 



Department of Agriculture . . 



T. F. Dibbs 



S. A. Forbes 



Dr. Alfred Fricke 



Geological Survey of N. Hamp- 

 shire 



Geological Survey of Spain . . 



Government of Victoria . . . 

 4 I H. M. Hull 



Chas. S. Keyser 



Geo. W. LaAvreuce .... 



W. Moore 



E. C. Nowell 



Messrs. Pawson & Nicholson 

 The late J. S. Phillips . . 



A. Randall 



W. C. Stevenson .... 

 The late Robert Swift . . . 



They were divided as follows : — 



Journals 1575 | Mineralogy 19 



Geology 207 i Physical Science 15 



Botany 182 | Medicine 13 



General Natural History , . 168 ■ Anthropology 11 



Conchology 107 I Helminthology 11 



Ichthyology 11 



Agriculture 10 



Mammalogy 8 



Herpetology 6 



Encyclopaedias 3 



Entomology 96 



Voyages and Travels .... 71 



Bibliography 58 



Ornithology 46 



Chemistry 44 



Anatomy and Physiology . . 37 



In addition to the prompt arrangement and cataloguing of the 

 accessions, the card catalogue of the works on Voyages and Tra- 

 vels, with copious cross references, has been completed, and more 

 than three-fourths of the books included in the department of 

 General Natural History have been catalogued in the same way. 

 It was hoped that the worit in the latter department would be 

 finished, but the entire lack of clerical assistance during the 

 greater part of the year, together with the comparatively short 

 time at my disposal after the performance of the routine duties of 

 the library, has made this impossible. Mr. Thos. P. Parker has 

 affixed numbers to all the books catalogued, with neatness and 

 accuracy. 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 33T 



It will be observed that the I. Y. Williamson Fund has fur- 

 nished the largest number of additions received during the year 

 from any one source. Man}' of the works so obtained are indis- 

 pensable to the working naturalist, and but few of them can be 

 referred to in any other librar}- in the cit}'. 



A few popular books of travel and general natural histoiy have 

 been obtained by means of the Conarroe Fund arising from the 

 sale of publications given to the Academ}^ by Geo. M. Conarroc, 

 and the income of the Wilson Fund has been devoted as hereto- 

 fore to the purchase of the continuations of the valuable works 

 subscribed for on behalf of the Academy' b}^ the late Dr. Thomas 

 B. Wilson. 



Among the special donations during the year, the most impor- 

 tant have been the valuable selection from the library of the late 

 Dr. Jos. Carson, presented by his children Hampton L., Ann C, 

 and Susan Carson, and a portion of the library of the late Dr, 

 Thomas B. Wilson, presented b}' his brother, Mr. Rathmell Wil- 

 son. The former included a copy of the Cavendish Society's edi- 

 tion of Gmelin's Handbook of Chemistry, and several other 

 valuable chemical works, together with a large number of vol- 

 umes on Materia Medica and general botany not before in the 

 possession of the Society. Mr. Wilson's donation was especially 

 important, from the fact that it contained several parts required 

 to complete volumes which had been formerly presented by Dr. 

 Wilson and which remained incomplete at the time of his death. 



Sixt3'-eight letters have been written applying for deficiencies 

 in periodicals, and in addition, propositions to exchange have 

 been sent to the editor of every new scientific journal noted 

 during the year. The answers have been numerous, and for the 

 most part satisfactory ; and it is hoped in time to obtain, either 

 b}"^ exchange or purchase, complete sets of all journals not at pre- 

 sent in the library. 



In consequence of tiie necessity for the strictest economy in the 

 management of the library, as well as all otiier departments of the 

 Academj-, only those books which would be damaged if left un- 

 bound have been sent to the binders. These have included the 

 journals most constantly referred to, and a few other volumes re- 

 ceived from the publishers in numl)ers. 



A fine portrait in oil of the President of tiie Academy, Dr. W. 

 S. W. Kuschcnbergcr, was presented by Mr. Wm. P. Jenks, for 




338 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



which very acceptable gift the thanks of the Society were voted 

 to the donor. 



All of which is respectfullj^ submitted. 



Edw. J. Nolan, 



Librarian. 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



Tlie museum of the Academy is in an excellent state of pre- 

 servation, and in an advanced condition of systematic arrange- 

 ment. I present a report from Mr. C. F. Parker, the Curator in 

 charge of the museum, of the work done during the 3^ear. 



Philadelphia, Dec. 8, 1877. 

 Dr. Jos. Leidy, 



Chairman of Board of Curators A. N. 8. 



Dear Sir: I herewith inclose the following report of work 

 done in the museum : — 



Mr. John A. Ryder has made a catalogue of the mammalia in 

 the museum of the Academy, founded on Dr. Slack's catalogue 

 (Gill's classification being adopted). He has also labelled the crania 

 and osteological collections of bats, rodents, edentates, marsupials, 

 and monotremes, besides the series of crania and horns that are 

 placed around the galleries of the museum. 



With the assistance of Mr. Ryder the collection of Ophidia has 

 been undergoing a thorough overhauling, the alcohol has been re- 

 newed when necessary, the bottles washed, and new labels written, 

 all old labels being preserved, especially those in the handwriting of 

 distinguished herpetologists who formerly devoted attention to 

 this department of our collection. Seventeen families have been 

 worked over, or about three-fourths of the entire collection. The 

 donations which have been accumulating for some years, have also 

 been distributed in the collection in proper systematic order. 

 Many of these prove to be desiderata to the already large collec- 

 tion. 



The collection of Chelonia has also been labelled and arranged 

 during the year; it is found to embrace seven families of sixt^'-five 

 species, represented by about four hundred and fifty specimens. 



The collections illustrating the osteology of the Chelonia, 

 Ophidia, and Sauria have also been labelled. 



A considerable number of large labels for the more striking 

 objects in the vertebrate palaeontological collections have been 

 prepared and put in place. 



The collection of mammal skins has been examined. 



The whole collection of birds has been thoroughly examined 

 and dusted, and is generally in good condition. 




ISYT.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 339 



Mr. W. G. Freedl3' has finished the arrangement and labelling 

 of the collection of birds' eggs. 



The collection of sponges sent to Prof. Hyatt for stud}^ has 

 been retnrned, and has since been labelled and arranged. 



The cases in the Museum have all been secured, as far as pos- 

 sible, against dust, by the addition to tlie doors of strips of list. 

 The greater part of this very necessary work was performed by 

 Mr. f hos. P. Parker. 



Most of the specimens given, deposited, and purchased during 

 the year have been lal)elled, and put in their proper places. 



The collection of minerals is being rearranged, and labelled 

 according to the classification of Dana. C F. Parker. 



Special reports on the additions and improvements to the 

 conchological, botanical, and mineralogical cabinets, will be pre- 

 sented by the sections who have them in their special care. 



Additions to the remaining departments of the Academy during 

 the. year are as follow: — 



3fammals. — Mounted specimens of Phalangista vulpina, and 

 Ornithorhynchus anatus, and skin of Belideus, from Tasmania, 

 presented by W. H. Archer. 



Sixteen skins, from Brazil, presented b}'^ Dr. Jos^ de Saldanha. 

 Reindeer antlers, Cumberland Inlet, from Lieut. W. A. Mintzer. 

 Leather of Kangaroo, Tasmania, from S. Arnett. 



Mounted specimen of the Spitz dog. Mrs. John B. Nimex. 



Scotophilus cinereus, from J. 0. Schimrael; Hesperomys len- 

 copus and Condylura cristata, from Geo. Raphael. Tooth of 

 Sperm whale, from Mrs. Paul Shirley; skull of new-born Donkey, 

 by J. A. Ryder; and a foetal Calf, by John Winter. Numerous 

 samples of wools, produced in Tasmania, presented by the exhi- 

 bitors of the International Exhibition of 18Y6. 



Birds — Platycercus C3'anopygus, Australia, from the Zoologi- 

 cal Societ}' of Philadelphia; Conurus solstitialis, Demerara, from 

 S. S. Haldeman; three mounted Cupidonia cupido and Buteo vir- 

 ginianus, from T, R. Peale; mounted Meleagris gallopavo, crested 

 variet}^ from J. 0. Schimmel ; and Speoty to cunicularia, from E. 

 H. Peabody. 



Twenty-three species of birds' eggs, from Beesley's Point, N. J., 

 from Caleb Wood; eleven species from another donor; eggs of 

 Crax alector and Callipsittacus novjE-hollandi;ie, from G. Pavona- 

 rius; Ostrich egg, from Michael C.Carey; specimens from Mrs. 




340 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



Paul Shirley; and the malformed genitals of a fowl, from P. B. 

 Mingle. 



Reptiles^ Amphibians, and Fishes. — Four skins of reptiles, 

 Brazil, from Dr. Jose de Saldanha; a small collection of reptiles, 

 Florida, from Lieut. A. W. Yogdes; Iguana, St. Andrews, from 

 Albert S. Duer; and turtle eggs, Delaware, from G. Frejer. Spe- 

 lerpes ruber, from TV. F. Marshall. Small collection of fishes and 

 reptiles, San Domingo, from W. M. Gabb. 



Seventy-seven species of fishes, chiefls' from east coast of United 

 States, from the National Museum, through the Smithsonian 

 Institution. 



Specimens of the viviparous fish, Zygonectes Xotii, Mobile, 

 from Dr. G. H. Masten. An Eel-pout, Zoarces anguiilaris, east 

 coast, from G. TV. Bugbee & Co.; and a second from Wm. Lim- 

 ing. Two fishes, Bermuda, from P.J. Lauber; Lepidosteus, Dela- 

 ware Ba}', from Mr. Holbrook ; Tetrodon laevigatus, N. J., from 

 Dr. Kingston Goddard; and a skeleton of a fish, Cliimbote Bay, 

 S. A., from Dr. J. T. Coates. 



Articulates. — Seventv-one species of spiders, mostly of Penn- 

 sylvania, and a collection illustrating the habits of the American 

 Tarantula, and the architecture, etc., of other spiders, presented, 

 under certain conditions, by Rev. H. C. McCook. Scorpions, 

 Florida, from Lieut. A. W. Vogdes. Cenobita Diogenes, Turk's 

 Island, from Wm. M. Gabb; Limulus poh'phemus. Key West, 

 from Dr. G. R. B. Horner; and Menippe mercenaria, east coast, 

 from Wm. Liming. Fulgora lanternera, Brazil, from T. C. Bond; 

 and Gryllotalpa longipennis, from R. W. Merrill. Hornet's nest, 

 from A. T. Goodman; and bark of Hickory mined by Scolytus 

 quadrispinosis,- from Dr. E. C. Evans. Cocoons and raw silk, 

 and wax, Peru, from Jose Carlos Tracy; and Cochineal, reared at 

 Cape Town, from J. McGibbon. 



Radiates and Protozoans. — Fourteen sponges, from Florida, in 

 exchange from the Boston Society of Natural History, Corals 

 and hydroids, dredged off Florida, from Lieut. A. W. Yogdes. 

 Coral, Bermuda, from H. A. Slocum. 



Fossils. — A human skeleton, together with other bones, teeth, 

 and shells, from a shell-mound at Tampa, Florida, presented by 

 Lieut. A. W. Yogdes, 



Eozoon Canadense, from the Laurentian limestone of Canad.a, 

 from the Geological Survey of Canada through W. C. Stevenson. 




18T7.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 341 



Four fossil fishes from the tertiary of Wj-oming, presented by 

 Joseph Jeanes. 



Fragment of jaw, tooth, and two vertebrae of Mosasaurus ; 

 eighteen vertebrae of crocodile ; marginal bone of a turtle, and 

 fragments of a fish jaw; and a fossil sponge from the marl and 

 cretaceous limestone of New Jersey, presented by Col. T. M. 

 Brj-an. 



Ten fossils, mostly Ammonites, from Chili, in exchange from 

 Prof. Domeyko. 



Incisor of Kangaroos and Canine of Diprotodon, Queensland, 

 from Dr. Geo. Bennett. 



Several molars of Rhinoceros, Colorado, from Dr. Jos. Leidy. 



Twentj'^-eight Upper Silurian fossils, Dudley, England, from T. 

 A. Conrad. 



Six Devonian fossils, Richmond, Ind. ; a fossil plant, foot track, 

 and rain drop markings, from the triassic shales, Bucks County, 

 Pa., presented by Dr. G. T. Heston. 



Shark tooth and a bone, marl of Fostertown, N. J., from H. M. 

 Potts; three reptile bones, N. J., from R. H. Xash ; two teeth of 

 Mosasaurus, Luraberton, N. J., from Elwood K. Phillips ; and 

 Idonearca, Barnesboro, X. J., from Charles Berr^'. 



Carboniferous fossils, Arkansas, from W. E. Rowell; large coral 

 fossil. Pa., from W. S. Vaux; and Pol^'podium Hochsteteri and 

 fossil shells, from H. W. Mitchell. 



Three samples of Diatomaceous earth, California, from the Cali- 

 fornia State Geological Society. 



Two cetacean vertebrre, Ashley R., S. C, from Philip Wineman ; 

 and fragment of antler, same locality, from C. S. Bement. 



Thirteen species fresh water shells, lignite, and calcaneum of 

 Canis, from bluff on Mississippi, near Alton, 111.; several fossils 

 from Cuba, and others from East Park, Philadelphia, presented 

 b}' John Ford. 



Two Streptelasma corniculum, near Clifton, England, from 

 Fanning C. Tucker; petrified wood, Launcestown, Tasmania, from 

 A. Ilarrap; cast of spine of Edestus, Collinsville, 111., from Dr. G. 

 Hambach ; and photograph of skull of Bison latifrous, from Cin- 

 cinnati Society of Natural History. 



Ethnological and Miscellaneous. — The interesting and valuable 

 collection, illustrating the stone age, made by the late Franklin 

 Peale, and bequeathed b}^ hira to the American Philosophical 




342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [187Y. 



Society', has been deposited in the Acadera}-, on condition of being 

 returned on demand. 



A collection of wearing apparel, collected during the j'ears 

 1838-42 in the Hawaiian, Societj^, Samoan, and other Pacific 

 Islands, mostly made from bark of the paper mulberry, Brous- 

 sonetia pap^^rifera, consisting of the following : 27 tapa dresses, 

 mostly Hawaiian, 4 bed curtains, 3 niarros or waist-cloths, 7 mats, 

 Hawaiian and Samoan, 2 pieces of imprinted tapa, 1 oiled bark 

 cloth and a table cover, a number of waist ribbons and imitation 

 shawls, 2 Samoan fishing dresses, made of the leaves of the Dra- 

 caena or dragon tree, 2 work-bags, 4 school satchels, 2 poi bowls, 

 an ava bowl used in making the intoxicating drink of the Pacific 

 Islands; a fine specimen of the native New Zealand dress, made 

 of Phormium tenax and dog's hair, Fiji nose flute, pandean pipes 

 from Samoa, a kris from the Sooloo Islands, ancient flj'-brush, 

 royal Hawaiian necklace, an apparatus used by the natives to 

 catch fish, stamp used in printing tapa, Hawaiian and Samoan 

 fishing lines, sennit of three kinds, tortoise shell bracelet from 

 Hawii, Tahitian drinking cup made of a cocoanut, Hawaiian quoit 

 and an ancient mirror, gourd containing the perfumed oil with 

 which the Tahitians anoint themselves, dagger from King's Mill 

 Islands, go-go or soap bark from the Philiipines, specimens of 

 the ava root (Piper methisticum), Hawaiian and Samoan necklace, 

 money bag from New Granada, doll dressed in the costume worn 

 by the ladies of Lima about 1840, and various other articles, pre* 

 sented by Titian R. Peale. 



Eight specimens of stone implements, from Chester County, Pa., 

 from E. A. Barber. 



Native Indian bows and arrows. Central America, from S. S. 

 Haldeman. 



A large terra-cotta water filter, presented by Dr. J. M. de Silva 

 Coutinho. 



Spurs worn by the " Guasos," of Chili, in 182G, rowel 4 inches 

 in diameter, from Dr. Ruschenberger. 



Indian relics, stone muller for grinding pigments, from Joseph 

 Willcox. 



Esquimo fishhook from Ivigtut, Greenland, from Lieut. W. A. 

 Mintzer. 



Model of Parthenon, Athens ; model of pj'ramid of Cheops, 

 made from the original stone ; Japanese pillow and slippers ; na- 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 313 



tive bows and arrows, Sanrlwicb Islands ; Malay dirk ; cla}' lamp 

 from Egyptian tomb ; brick from the great wall of China, pre- 

 sented bj' Mrs. Paul Shirley. 



Stone implements, consisting of chisels, arrowheads, ornaments, 

 fragments of pottery, etc., from the banks of the Susquehanna near 

 Lewisburg, Union Couut}^, Pa., from C. T. Grier. 



Pottery, arrowheads from a shell mound at Tampa, Florida, 

 from Lieut. A. W. Vogdes. 



One skeleton (adult) one ditto (child), and nine skulls from 

 Peru, presented b}- Pr. C. A.. Siegfried, U. S. N. 



Specimen of carved stone pipe from North Western America, 

 from C. S. Bement. 



Indian pestle, found on a farm in Bushkill Township, Pike 

 County, Pa., from Maxwell Somerville. 



A skull and human bones taken from an Indian mound five 

 miles northwest of Sliipman, 111., Oct. 1875, also shells, pottery, 

 etc. Stone axe from the face of a cutting for a roadway in the 

 outer margin of the Mississippi River, one mile above Alton, III. 

 Stone axe from Macoupin County, 111. Stone axe from near 

 Norristown, Montgomery Count}^, Pa.; six arrowheads from Ohio, 

 three ditto from Illinois, and two from Indiana, presented by 

 John Ford. 



Respectfully submitted by 



Joseph Leidy, 



Chairman of Curators. 



REPORT OF THE BIOLOGICAL AND MICROSCOPICAL 



SECTION. 



The 3'ear just closed has witnessed a marked improvement in 

 the interest manifested in this Section, evinced both in the more 

 liberal displa}'^ of microscopical objects and the increased number 

 of communications upon allied subjects, which have had the grati- 

 fying effect of largely augmenting the attendance upon the meet- 

 ings. This latter condition has also been contributed to by a 

 modification of the Bj'-laws providing that the meetings of the 

 Section shall be held semi-monthly instead of monthly ; while 

 the labors of a business committee, appointed to provide and 

 arrange material for the meetings, have been so eflBciently per- 

 formed that the Section takes pleasure in also recognizing that 

 influence. 




344 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



Early in the 3'ear the Section was called upon to fill vacancies 

 occurring in two of its most important offices, Dr. Ruschenber- 

 ger having resigned from the directorship, and Dr. Richardson 

 from that of Recorder ; the regrets of the Section at this unex- 

 pected change was expressed in resolutions of thanks (ordered to 

 be placed on the minutes) to these gentlemen, for the faithful and 

 long-continued discharo;e of their duties. 



Dr. R. S. Kenderdine for Director, and Dr. Carl Seller for 

 Recorder were elected to fill the vacancies for the unexpired 

 term. Subsequently the Vice-Director and three other members 

 tendered their resignations, all of which were accepted upon the 

 usual conditions. A member was lost in consequence of being 

 dropped from the Academy's list. 



This withdrawal of original members has been in numbers more 

 than compensated for by the election of eight active members and 

 the addition of four associates. 



A book has been provided by the Curator for the purpose o^ 

 keeping therein a record of the successful methods of preparing 

 microscopic objects, that the members ma}' have the opportunity 

 of aiding each other in their work. 



Six papers have been read before the Section, five of which have 

 been published in periodicals. 



Their titles were as follows: — 



" Post Centennial Microscopic Xotes," by Dr. J. G. Hunt ; 

 " Staining and Mounting Animal Tissues," by Dr. Carl Seller ; 

 "Late Improvements in Microscopes," Iw Mr. Jos. Zentmayer; 

 " Observations upon the Life and Habitat of the Melicerta and 

 Limnias," by Dr. C. N. Peirce ; "Eucalyptus Oils," by Thomas 

 Ta3lor ; " Origin and Development of Deciduous and Permanent 

 Teeth," illustrated by sections, and drawings, by Dr. J. H. 

 McQuillen ; one lecture on " Some Analogies between Animal and 

 Vegetable Tissues," by Dr. J. G. Hunt ; " An Exhibition with the 

 Gas Microscope," by Dr. Reed. 



Five verbal communications on "The Reproduction of Plants 

 and especially of the Spyrogara Dubia" were given by Dr. J. G. 

 Hunt; one on a "New Self-Centering Turntable," by Mr. Jos. 

 Zentma3'er; one on " Physalia and its Lasso Cells," by Capt« 

 Mortimer; one on a " New Histological Stand," of his invention, 

 by Mr. Jos. Zentmayer; and remarks upon Baush & Lomb's 

 New Microscope, by Dr. J. G. Hunt. These essays and commu- 




ISVI.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 345 



nications presented as tho}' were with microscopic illustrations, 

 wherever practicable, elicited much interesting and instructive 

 discussion, participated in b}' manj' of the members. 



On November lOtli the annual microscopical exhibition was 

 held, the museum and adjoining rooms being opened and lighted 

 for the reception and better accommodation of our invited guests. 

 At an early hour the members of the Academy never before wit- 

 nessed so large and interested an audience (numbering rear three 

 thousand) as was assembled within its buikling. Xor did our 

 friends and visitors ever have the pleasure of viewing a more libe- 

 ral and beautiful display of microscopes and microscopical objects 

 than was on that occasion presented. 



Our Director, Dr. Kenderdine, welcomed the audience with some 

 appi'opriate remarks, in which pertinent allusion was made to the 

 advanced step in education, which had been so largely contributed 

 to by microscopists in urging the importance of educating the e^'e 

 to observe. 



In this necessarily' abridged and imperfect sketch of the work 

 and progress of the Section during the past year we see that much 

 yet remains to be done to increase its efficiency and interest ; but 

 with what has been accomplislied in this department of science, 

 we are warranted in believing tliat with our present knowledge 

 and growing opportunities we shall recognize the interest 

 awakened as permanent, and that the future will be not less fruit- 

 ful in results than the past has been. 



The officers elected to serve for the ensuing year are as fol- 

 lows : — 



Director .... Dr. R. S. Kenderdine. 



Vice-Director . . . Dr. J. H. McQuillen. 



Recorder . . . . Dr. Carl Seller. 



Corresponding Secretary . Dr. C. N. Peirce. 



Treasurer .... Dr. Isaac Norris. 



Conservator . . . Dr. J. G. Hunt. 



Curators .... Dr. Charles Schaffer, 



Charles Zentmaj'er. 



C. Seiler, 

 Recorder. 



23 




346 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [ISTT- 



REPORT OF THE CONCHOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The Recorder of the Conchological Section respectfully^ reports 

 that during 18*7T papers have been accepted and published in the 

 Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences, aggregating 

 106 pages, by authors as follows: — 



William H. Dall, 40 pages. William M. Gabb, 51 pages. 



Jas. Lewis, M.D. 11 " T. A. Conrad, 4 " 



During the year the Section has lost by death several of its 

 most useful collaborators. Principal among these was our fellow- 

 member Timothy A. Conrad, who, although not a regular attendant 

 at our meetings, was actively engaged in furnishing papers and 

 illustrations for the American Journal of Conchology from its 

 commencement to its discontinuance. He also contributed to the 

 Academy's Proceedings almost up to the time of his death, and 

 always took great interest in our welfare. 



We have also lost two valued correspondents, John G. Anthony, 

 of Cambridge, Mass., and Dr. P. P. Carpenter, of Montreal, 

 Canada. 



Mr. Anthony was for many j^ears interested in our fluviatile 

 moUusca. He was a man of liberal ideas, and was ever ready to 

 lend a helping hand to all seeking information, whether the be- 

 ginner or the more advanced student. 



Dr. Carpenter's specialty was the study of the marine mollusks 

 of the West Coast of North America. Both were zealous con- 

 tributors to our museum, our library, and our publications. 



From the report of our Conservator we find that during the 

 year ending Dec. 1st, 1877, 831 species, numbering 2923 speci- 

 mens have been added to our collection. He says " among the 

 most important of these accessions are : — 



" 1392 specimens of 355 species of California shells collected by 

 Hcnr}' Hemphill, including many rare and minute forms mostly 

 new to our collection, and all from authentic localities. 



"243 specimens of 83 species of Pol3aiesian mollusks and shells 

 collected by the Godeffroy expeditions. Most of these are alco- 

 holic specimens, and all are new to the collection. Both the 

 above were purchased from moneys obtained by the sale of dupli- 




187*7.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 347 



Gates from the collection of the late John S. Phillips, and his name 

 has accordingly been placed on the labels as donor. 



"Dr. Isaac Lea has generously given us his entire collection of 

 UnionidaB in alcohol, comprising, in forty large jars, 972 speci- 

 mens of 234 species. This collection is very valuable from the 

 fact that it includes the types of nearly all the descriptions of the 

 soft parts of Unionidfc described by Dr. Lea. 



" The Liverpool Free Public Museum and Library has sent us 50 

 species, principally of Oliva and Nassa, including authentic spe- 

 cimens of a considerable number of the species described by Mr. 

 F. P. Marrat, who has made the study of these genera a specialty." 



The museum work for the year aggregates as follows: — 



New additions .... 831 trays and labels, 2,923 specimens. 



Completion of the arrangement of 

 selections from the Phillips col- 

 lection 449 " " 1,531 " 



The Robert Swift collection has 

 been arranged as far as the end of 

 the marine and fluviatile uni- 

 valves 2831 " " 10,883 " 



Total .... 4111 " " 15,337 " 



The Section is again under great obligations to Mr. Charles F. 

 Parker, who has carefully cleansed and mounted for us the whole 

 of the above, principally during hours for which he is not com- 

 pensated by the Academy as one of its curators. It is the dona- 

 tion to us of the labor of manj' days. Our collection now con- 

 tains about 30,000 traj'S and 100,000 specimens. Your Conser- 

 vator availed himself, during a visit to Europe the past summer, 

 of an opportunity to institute a comparison between our Concho- 

 logical cabinet and that of the British Museum in London, and 

 gives the following figures as approximately correct. 



The Academj-'s collection occupies about 2600 square feet in 

 glass cases, and 2000 square feet arranged under glass in drawers, 

 accessible to the public. Total, say 4600 square feet. 



The British Museum collection is contained in 48 cases, about 

 4x7 feet each, sa}'' 1350 square feet in all. A conchologist 

 familiar with this collection stated that it is principally contained 

 in the glass cases, the exceptions being mostly among the land 

 shells, of which many are in drawers. It would appear from 

 these figures that our collection is at least double in size that 




348 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1817. 



of the British Museum, which has usually been regarded as the 

 largest conchological cabinet in the world. 

 The officers of the Section for 1818 are — 



Director .... W. S. W. Ruschenberger. 

 Vice-Director . . . William M. Gabb. 

 Recorder . . . , S. Ra3'mond Roberts. 

 Secretary .... Rev. E. R. Beadle. 

 Treasurer . . . William L. Mactier. 



Librarian .... Edward J. Nolan. 

 Conservator . . . George W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Respectfully submitted, 



S. Raymond Roberts, 



Becorder. 



The following are the additions to the Conchological Museum 



received during the 3'^ear : — 



Rev. E. R. Beadle. Helix intoiHa, Sowb., var. Liguus Jlanimea, 

 L. picta, var. Tapes eequilatera. 

 A fine Panojjsea ghjcimeris (dredged alive). 



R. I. Betz, Teredo navalis, from Atlantic City, N. J. 



Thomas Bland. A number of land and marine shells from the Ba- 

 hamas, including Helix Blilleri^ H. provisoria^ Pupa Mar- 

 tensi, Gerithium sejJtemstriatum, Egeta Floridana, Cryp- 

 togramnia Jiexuosa, etc. 

 Twelve species of Bulimics, etc., collected by A. Agassiz in 

 Peru. Thirteen species of Pupa, Realia, etc., from Mau- 

 ritius. Nine species fresh-water shells from Mexico. 



T. M. Bryan. Leucocheila marginata, from Vincenttown, N. J. 



W. W. Calkius. Thirteen species of marine shells from Florida 

 and Bahamas. 



H. C. Coates. A small collection of shells from the Cape of Good 

 Hope. 



W. Doherty. Pupa Gincinnatiensis, Judge, from Cincinnati, O. 

 Somatogyrus aureus, Tryon, from Kentuck}'. 



John Ford. Triton Tranquebaricum. Land and fresh water 

 shells from the Bluff at Alton, Ills. 



Wm. M. Gabb. Fifteen species of land and marine shells from 

 St. Domingo. A large number of specimens of eleven spe- 

 cies of land and marine shells from Turk's Island. 




18Y7.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 349 



Mr. Holbrook. Xumber of specimens of Mijtilus edulis. 

 Ernest Ingersoll. Flanorbis plexatiis, Ingersoll, from St. Mary's 



Lake, Colorado- 

 Isaac Lea. Forty jars of UnionidiS in alcohol, 257 species. 

 Joseph Leidy. Remarkable specimen of Sh-ombns gigas. 

 Liverpool Free Public Museum and Librarj-. Fifty species of 



marine shells. (In exciiange.) 

 E. R. Mayo. Thirteen marine species from the Coast of Massa- 

 chusetts. 

 H. W. Mitchell. Mytilus IoJuh^ Lam., from Xew Zealand. 

 Chas. C. Phillips. Eightj'-three specimens of twenty-one species 



of marine and land shells from the Gaboon Coast, Western 



Africa. 

 John S. Phillips' Fund. Eleven species from various localities. 

 A California collection of 355 species, numerous specimens. 

 Eighty-three species, principally in alcohol, collected by the 



Godeffro}' expeditions in Central Polynesia. 

 Rutgers College. Four species of marine shells from Japan. 



(Exchange.) 

 Mrs. Paul Shirley. Two fine specimens of OJiv a porphyria. 

 D. B. Smith. Cassis tuberosa, Lam. Young. 

 A. A.Wright. Hemifusus elongatus, Lam., and Pecten superbufi, 



Sowb. 



REPORT OF THE CONSERVATOR OF ENTOMOLO- 

 GICAL SECTION. 



The Recorder of the Entomological Section of the Academy 

 takes pleasure in presenting to 3'ou a brief abstract of the trans- 

 actions of the Section during the year just closing. 



The Section at the present time numbers twenty-five members ; 

 no new members have been elected during the past j'ear. 



Nine montiily meetings have been held during the year, at 

 which there has been an average attendance of seven members. 



The meetings of the Section are held on the second Friday of 

 each month, excepting in July and December. 



Entomological papers intended for publication in tiie Transac- 

 tions of the American Entomological Society are read at the meet- 

 ings of the Section and referred to a publication committee, one 




350 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18T7. 



portion of Trhich is elected bj' the Society and tlie other portion 

 bj^ the Section. 



During the year fifteen entomological papers have been passed 

 upon affirmatively b3^ this committee. Within the same time the 

 committee has superintended the publication of 414 pages and 

 10 plates, finishing one volume, while another volume will soon be 

 closed. 



The library of the Entomological Section has been rearranged 

 and catalogued during the year, and is now open to the common 

 use of the members of the Academy. 



The Society during the year has added several valuable works 

 to its library, by purchase and otherwise. 



The collections have been greatly improved both in condition 

 and number of specimens. In June last the sum of $125 was 

 voted to the Curators, for the special improvement of the collec- 

 tion of H3'menoptera; and that branch of the collection is at the 

 present time the best in the country. 



The collections of Coleoptera and Lepidoptera have been care- 

 fully gone over, and all the drawers containing the same thoroughly 

 disinfected. The Curators ai'e now engaged in the work of rear- 

 ranging these oi'ders, and hope to have the same finished in a 

 short time. 



As the great object is to secure," so far as ma}^ be possible, the 

 best specimens, and as much matter is constantly accumulating in 

 the hands of the Curators, they will endeavor to cull therefrom 

 all worthless matter and use only such as will enhance the scien- 

 tific value of the collection. 



The cabinets are at all times open to inspection, under the su- 

 pervision of the Curators. 



It is hoped by the close of the coming year the collection will 

 be in such a condition as will make it still further in advance of 

 any similar collection in the United States. 



At the meeting held December 10, 1877, the following gentle- 

 men were elected officers for the 3^ear 1878 : — 



Director ...... John L. LeConte, M.D. 



Vice-Director .... George H. Horn, M.D. 



Becorder . . . . . J. H. Ridings. 



Treasurer E. T. Cresson. 




ISTT.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 351 



Publication Commiltee . . . E. T. Cresson, 



J. L. LeCoute, M.D., 

 Chas. Wilt, 



George H Horn, M.D., 

 C. A. Blake. 



All of which is respectfully submitted. 



J. H. Ridings, Recorder. 



REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL SECTION. 



Since the last — our first annual report — our meetings have been 

 held regularly. Seven members of the Academy have been re- 

 ceived into the Section during the year, making the total number 

 of members of the Section twenty-nine. 



The onlj'^ paper of general interest submitted to the Section 

 was the List of Ballast Plants made by Mr. Isaac Burk, and 

 which has been publisiied in the Proceedings of the Academy. 

 At every meeting verbal communications of much interest to 

 specialists in various branches of botany have been made by 

 Messrs. W. M. Canby, J. H. Redfield, J. A. Ryder, Thomas Mee- 

 han, Isaac Burk, J. C. Martindale, and Prof. Rothrock. 



Numerous additions to the herbarium have been made through 

 the Section as per report annexed. 



The Conservator's report to the Section is of such general inte- 

 rest that it is submitted herewith entire. 



The Treasurer's report shows that all the expenses of the Sec- 

 tion have been kept within its income. 



The officers elected to serve for the ensuing year are as fol- 

 lows : — ■ 



Director . 



Vice-Director 



Conservator 



Recorder 



Secretary 



Treasurer 



. Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger. 

 . Thomas Meehan. 

 . J. H. Redfield. 

 . Isaac Burk. 

 . Dr. J. H. LefTman. 

 . J. 0. Schimmel. 

 Respectfully submitted. 



Thomas Meehan, 



Vice- Director. 




352 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1817. 



Conservator'' s Report. — At the date of the last report of the 

 Conservator to the Botanical Section of the Academy, the organi- 

 zation of the Section had but recently been perfected by the 

 appointment of its committees and the allotment of their duties. 

 As was then evident, the work which la}' before the Committee on 

 the Academy's herbarium was mainly that of completing its new 

 arrangement, and of providing for ready and convenient access 

 to each species of the large collection therein "contained. This 

 work has proved no slight task, but it has been vigorously pi'ose- 

 cuted in both departments, viz., that of the General Herbarium 

 and that of the N. Ameiican, In the former, tablets have been 

 prepared for the several Xatural Orders as far as to the end of 

 the Monopelatous Division of the Exogenous Plants; these 

 tablets showing at a glance the proper position of the order, and 

 the genera referred to it ; and, in the larger orders, presenting 

 also an alphabetical index to the synon^-ms. In both depart- 

 ments, covers of stiff Manilla paper have been prepared and in- 

 scribed for the several genera, numbered to correspond with the 

 " Genera Plantarum" of Bentham and Hooker, the latest and best 

 authority'' for sj^stematic arrangement. It is estimated that above 

 4000 of these covers have been thus used, and probablj' 2000 

 more will be needed to complete the woik. 



The Conservator and the Herbarium Committee have in this 

 labor received most essential aid from Mr. Cliarles F. Parker, 

 "who, after the hours devoted to his regular duties in the Academy, 

 has given his time to the covering of the tablets, and the inscrib- 

 ing of the genus-covers. Mr. Burk has been constant and indus- 

 trious in carrying on the arrangement of the N. American Herba- 

 rium, while our Vice-Director, Mr. Meehan, has had the more 

 delicate task of deciding difficult points in the determination of 

 species. The sub-committee on duplicates have carried on their 

 work of culling and selection, pari paSf^u, with the other labor. 



A few months more will complete the general arrangement, 

 and the Conservator and the Herbarium Committee will then be 

 able to turn their attention to the work of cataloguing the collec- 

 tion, of noting its wants, and of establishing correspondence 

 for the purpose of procuring deficiencies. Something has already 

 been done in this direction, and correspondence has been opened 

 with botanists in Brazil, Venezuela, and Syria, which will result, 

 it is believed, in benefit to the Academy. 




ISTT.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 353 



Although so much has been accomplished during the year b3'' 

 volunteer laborers, who, from love of the science, have given such 

 time as could be spared from other duties, it has become more 

 and more evident that tliere is before us a vast amount of labor, 

 in the way of careful revision and elaboration of species, and the 

 jjroper mounting of ])lants, to which volunteer force is inadequate; 

 and we look forward with herpe to the da}' when the i)ublic spirit 

 of our community shall sufficiently endow the Academy to enable 

 it to secure the constant work of a competent botanist, and of an 

 expert mechanical assistant. In no otlier way can our large col- 

 lection be properlj' cared for, or be made to yield its full measure 

 of utility. 



Allusion has been made above to our Xorth American Herba- 

 rium. Our lamented fellow member, Mr. Durand, spent many 

 years in selecting from the general collection materials for the 

 formation of a special herbarium to illustrate the Flora of 

 N. America. The material for this purpose was ample, and of 

 peculiar value, because it largely consisted of plants collected b}' 

 Schweinitz, Pursh, Nuttall, Baldwin, Oakes, Torrey, Leconte, and 

 others, many of which were type specimens of the early de- 

 scribers, to which have been added from time to time the later 

 acquisitions made by government and individual explorations in 

 our Western Territories. The convenience and value of such a 

 collection cannot be questioned, and accordingly it has been par- 

 tially provided for in our upper or working-room, where also is 

 stored the valuable and splendidly mounted lierbarium of the 

 late Dr. Short. But to complete its proper arrangement we need 

 an additional case of the same size and style as the two now ap- 

 propriated to the purpose, and it is hoped that the Academy will 

 find means to provide this needed accommodation. 



John H. Redpield, 



Conservator. 



Additions to Botanical Museum and Herbarium, IStY. 

 Feb. AVm. M. Canb\-, Wilmington, N. C; a series of specimens 

 of Darlingtonia Cal/fo7'nica, Torr., from Northern Cali- 

 fornia, and a specimen of Canbya Candida, Parry, from San 

 Bernadino Co., California. 

 P. T. Leroy, Torrey Herbarium, N. Y. ; Primula suffrules- 

 cans, Gray, from Sierra Nevada, California. 




354 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1877. 



Dr. Asa Gray, Cambridge, Mass. ; 13 species of exotic plants, 



and 2 of Californian plants; mostl}' new to us. 

 Rev. E. W. Hervej', through J. C. Martindale ; Astei- Herveyi, 



Gr., from New Bedford, Mass. 

 March. Dr. C. C. Parry, Davenport, Iowa; polished section of the 



wood of Cercocarpus ledifolius^ from S. Utah. 

 John H. Redfield; polished section of i?«»/ii» /a, from Brazil, 



and specimen of Gi/mnostomum Brandegei, a new moss from 



Colorado. 

 Thos. Meehan; Peraph.yUum ramosissimum, Xutt, from 



Southern Utah ; cones of Finns palustTis, from Florida. 

 Isaac Burk ; capsule of a large species of Bignonia; fruits of 



Anacardia orieiitale, Ophiocaryon j:>aradoxum, and Gor- 



donia piibescens, and some other seeds. 

 April. Jose Carlos Tracy, Peruvian Commissioner to Centennial 



Exhibition ; 57 species of Peruvian woods. 

 H. C. Coates, Commissioner from Cape Colony ; 54 species 



of medicinal plants and drugs; 6 species of barks; and 



samples of vegetable wax from Myrica cordifolia, all from 



South Africa. 

 Miss Mar}' B. Rodney, through J. B. Rodney, Germantown, 



Phila.; " Plantse Oregonensis," one volume containing 125 



species of plants, collected in Oregon by the donor.- 

 Mariano Barcena, Mexican Commissioner; 47 jars of me- 

 dicinal plants from Mexico. 

 Prof. Jos. T. Rothrock, Phila. ; 8 species of plants from Ari- 

 zona, all new to the Herbarium. 

 May. Prof. W. G. Farlow, Cambridge, Mass ; Fungus {JEcidium 



pyratum) on Pyrus angustifolium. 

 Hugh M. Hull, Tasmanian Commissioner; 16 specimens of 



Tasmanian woods, and 16 samples of Tasmanian seeds, 



Hobart Town. 

 Geo. Kemfe; samples of wheat from Upper Bagdad. 

 C. A. Franklin; Sassafras bark {Alheroi^perma). 

 Dr. J. Coverdale; gelatinous sea-weed from Port Arthur, and 



jell}' made fi'om the same. 

 J. W. Graves ; native bread {Mylitta auslralis) from Hobart 



Town. 

 Mrs. John Thomson; native bread {Mylitta auslralis), Cor- 



miston. 




18TT.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 355 



Mrs. Mitchell (through Australian Commission) ; gum from 



the Oyster Bay Pine ( Callilris aiistralis). 

 Commissioners of Lunatic AsN'lum, Hobart Town; oil from 



the Blue Gum Tree, Eucalyiotus globulus. 

 Mrs. Paul Shirle}^; cone of the Cedar of Lebanon. 

 H. W. Mitchell; leaves of Phormium tenax, Forst, with sam- 

 ples of rope, bags, and brushes made from same, Auck- 

 land, X. Z. 

 June. T. R. Peale ; Fucus^ Ocean Grove, IS". J. 

 Sept. Wm. M. Canb}', Wilmington, Del.; Symplocos tinctoria, 



L'Her, in fruit, from Sussex Co., Delaware. 

 John H. Redfield ; 15 species of N. xVmerican Ferns, mostly 



new to our N. American Herbarium ; also three species of 



Californian phaenogamic plants. 

 Eugene E. Frank, Wilkesbarre, Pa.; Botrychium Virgini- 



cum, Fr. 

 Charles C. Cresson; Rare Fungus {Cynophallus caninus^ 



Fr.), Wissahickon woods. 

 Oct. Department of Agriculture, "Washington, D. C. ; 420 species 



of plants, collected in Utah by Second Division of U. S. 



Geological and Geographical Survey of the Territories, 



Maj. J. W. Powell in charge; L. F. Ward, collector. 

 Also 12 species of plants collected in Alaska by W. H. 



Dall, and 30 species collected in the islands of the Pacific 



b^' the same. 

 C. G. Pringle, Charlotte, Ya. ; Gentiana Aviarella.,\j.^var. 



{acuta Mx.), from Smuggler's Notch, Mount ^[ansfield, Yt. 

 Capt. Robert Wiltbank ; fruit of the Ivor3--nut Palm (Phy- 



ielephas macrocarpus)^ from Cardeck R., coast of San 



Bias, U. S. of Colombia. 

 Hampton L., Ann C, and Susan Carson, heirs of the late 



Dr. Joseph Carson ; the botanical collections of Dr. Carson, 



consisting of dried plants, barks, resins, seeds, etc. 

 Dec. Dr. Asa Gray, Cambridge, Mass. ; 29 species of exotic 



plants, principal!}' of the order Sapofacese, and mostly new 



to our collection ; also 35 species of X. American plants, 



principally from California and Oregon. 




356 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [187T. 



REPORT OF THE MIXERALOGICAL SECTTOX. 



The Director of the Mineralogical Section of the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences would respectfully report that the Section was 

 organized April 24, 1877, and the following officers elected: — 



Director Theodore D. Rand. 



Vice-Director .... Win. H. Dougherty. 



Recorder ..... Henr}- C. Lewis. 



Treasurer William S. Yaux, 



Secretary ..... Henrj'^ C. Lewis. 



Conservator ..... Jos. Willcox. 



Meetings have been held every month since that date, except dur- 

 ing July and August ; the attendance has been good and interest 

 great. The accompanying report of the Conservator shows the 

 work done, which, considering the sliortness of the time, must be 

 regarded as highly satisfactory'. The appearance of that part of 

 the collection which has been rearranged and relabeled, has been 

 favorably noticed hy many members of tlie Academy. 



It is expected that a summary of the scientific work of the 

 Section will be presented to the Academy for publication. The 

 Section numbers nineteen members. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Theo. D. Rand, 



Director. 



Report of the Conservator. — Since my election to the office of 

 Conservator, the most important work, under my supervision, has 

 been the rearrangement and classification of the mineral collec- 

 tion of the Academ}-. On the authority of a resolution of the 

 Section, the arrangement has been made according to tlie sj'stem 

 adopted in the last edition of Prof. Dana's Mineralogy. Tliis 

 operation has been completed, and already some progress has been 

 made in relabeling the specimens upon cards of uniform st^'le ; 

 and it is expected that this work will be fully performed during 

 the winter. It is proposed to put the specimens in paper trays of 

 suitable size ; and it has been ascertained that under this plan the 




18T7.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 351 



minerals will not occupy a greater space than under the existing 

 arrangement, whilB the attractiveness of the collection will be 

 greatly increased. 



The additions to the collection of minerals during the past year 

 have been as great as usual, and satisfactoiy. Appended is a list 

 of the donations. 



Mr. H. C. Lewis has completed the optical examination of the 

 micas in the collection of the Academj^, and the divergence of tlie 

 optic axes thus determined will be appended to the new labels. 

 Much credit is due to Mr. Charles F. Parker for his industry 

 and care in rearranging tlie mineral collection. 



Joseph Willcox, 



Conse7-oato7'. 



Additions to Mineralogical Cabinet. — E. R. Beadle, in exchange. 

 Two specimens of Pyroxene, 1 Scapolite, Slate Nodules, and 

 2 Hornblendes, 1 Black Tourmaline, 1 Tremolite, 1 Albite 

 (Peristerite), 1 Stilbite, 1 Kieserite, 1 Haematite, 1 Magnesite, 

 2 massive Apatites (Osteolite), 1 Titaniferous Iron, Apatite, 

 Feldspar, etc., from various localites ; Fibrous Gypsums, and 

 Elaterite (Elastic Bitumen) from Derbyshire, England. 



C. S. Bement. Twenty-five specimens of minerals from various 

 localities, consisting of Corundum, Menaccanite, Perofskite, 

 Gahnite, Franklinite, and Willemite, Rutile, Goethite, Limo- 

 nite, Chalcophanite, Garnet, Scapolite, Tourmaline, Brews- 

 terite, and Strontianite, Apatite, Apatite in Calcite, Apatite 

 with so-called fused Quartz and Pyroxene, Vanadinite, Pyr- 

 rhotite, with Chalybite, and Mesitite, and Cerussite, etc. 



Prof. W. P. Blake, on behalf of the National Museum. Specimen 

 of flexible Sandstone (Itacolumite), from Stokes Co., N. C. 



E. M. Bye. Slab of polished Serpentine, Harford Co., Md. 



Dr. J. T. Coates. Volcanic Kock, from the crater of "Misti," 

 Arequipa Volcano, from 18,600 feet elevation, Peru. 



H. C. Coates, Cape of Good Hope Commission. A number of 

 specimens of ores of copper, Galena, Manganese, Coal, etc., 

 Cape of Good Hoi)e. 



Lieut. E. Crawford. A small collection of rock specimens from 

 the Black Hills, Wyoming Territor3\ 



Prof. Domeyko, on behalf of the Chilian Centennial Commission, 

 in exchange. Mineral specimens consisting of ChrysocoUa 

 Erythrite, Atacamite, Malachite, Coquimbite, Proustite, Chal- 




358 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [187Y, 



cophillite, Cerarg3'rite, Arquerite, Fibroferrite, Argentiferous 

 Tetrahedrite ; Oxide, Sulphides, and Silicate of Copper. A 

 large number of specimeus of minerals, ores, and rocks, in- 

 cluding fine examples of Quartz Crystals, Copi)er, and Silver 

 ores, Cobalt, Sulphur, Galena, Tremolite, Hornblende, Cinna- 

 bar, Azurite, Hayesine, Prowstite in Limestone, Aragonite, 

 Salt, Native Arsenic, Philippite, Kronkite, Xitrate of Soda, 

 Effloresence from the Laguna of Maricunga, and fifty rock 

 specimens. All from Chili, Peru, and Bolivia. 



W. H. Dougherty. Native copper in the Hecla and Calumet 

 Conglomerate, Houghton Co., Mich.; Chalcopyrite, Christi- 

 ania, Norway. 



W. D. Eyre. Asbestos with fibres 3| ft. long, Yal Tellina, Pied- 

 mont. 



John Ford. Two specimens of Peacock Anthracite, Schuylkill 

 Co., Pa. 



E. Goldsmith. Specimens of Triassic Coal, Montgomer}- Co., Pa. 



H. A. Green. Aragonite and Calcite in Geode, Warsaw, Illinois. 



Julian Gutierrez, through M. Barcena. Slab of Travertine Lime- 

 stone (Mexican Onyx), from the Tecali Quarries, Puebla, 

 Mexico. 



J. Hazard. Specimen of Drus^^ Quartz, from Mine La Motte, Mo. 



J. Heistand. Two Stalactites, Middletown, Dauphin Co., Pa. 



Kussell Hill. Dolomite Actinolite, Magnetic Iron and Pjrites, 

 Garnets in Mica Schist, from the Soapstoue Quarry, Mana- 

 3 unk, Phila. 



Jos. Jeanes. Two specimens of Amcth3-st, two of Quartz on 

 Chalcedom}', three of Chalcedom3', one of Tufa, and specimens 

 of Sulphur, all from the National Park, Montana. 



W. W. Jeffries, in exchange. K3'anite, Margarite on Corundum, 

 Aquacreptite, Amazon Stone, Lennilite, Hallite, Chesterlite, 

 and Chromite in Serpentine, from Chester and Delaware 

 Counties, Pa.; Asbestos, Phlogopite, Sandstone, Feldspar, 

 from various localities of Arberton; Tourmaline, Kammer- 

 erite, Fibrolite, Magnesite, Actinolite, K3'anite, and Quartz. 



Dr. Linn. Specimen of Apatite, Schischimsk, Siberia. 



H. C. Lewis. Ripple marks in Medina Sandstone (No. 4), Blackleg 

 Gap, Huntingdon Co., Pa., and Siderite, Dunbar, Fayette Co., 

 Pa.; Biotite, Darb3- Creek, Darb3', Phila.; Lepidomelane, 

 Frankford, Phila. 




1877.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 359 



Dr. Jos. Leid}-. Spinel in Clilorite, from Franklin, Macon Co., 

 N. C. Light Brown Tonrmaline, St. Lawrence Co., N. Y. 

 Green Tourmaline in granite, Paris, Me. Two terminated 

 Crystals of Topaz, from Minas-Gereas, Brazil. Two Crystals 

 of Green Tourmaline; two terminated Cr3'stals of the same; 

 one terminated Cr3stal of Black Tourmaline; one Crystal of 

 Tourmaline (Indicolite) ; one Crystal of Rubollite; one sec- 

 tion of Crystal of Bubellite and Green Tourmaline, all from 

 Villa Rica, Brazil. Red and Green Tourmaline, with Cooke- 

 ite, in quartz, from Mt. Mica, Paris, Maine. Kyanite, from 

 Delaware Co., Pa. Cr3'stalline Slag, from Swedes' Furnace, 

 Upper Merion, Montgomery Co., Pa. Laumontite, from east 

 side of the Schuylkill, Philadelphia Park. Crystalline Slag 

 from copper furnace, Baltimore, Md. Rock Milk, from Hot 

 Springs, Gardner's River, National Park. Mica, Pennsbury, 

 Chester Co., Albite, with Muscovite, near Media, Delaware 

 Co., Muscovite, with Biotite, Laurel Hill, Phila. Sulphuret 

 of Cadmium on Blende, from Friedensville, Lehigh Co., Pa. 

 Jadeite and Talcose schist, from Easton, Pa. Calcite, from 

 Martinsburg, Lewis Co., N. Y. Pyroxene and Feldspar, 

 from Rossie, X. Y. Scapolite and Peristerite, from Pierre- 

 pont, N. Y. 



From the same, in exchange. Hydrodolomite on Chromite, from 

 Texas, Lancaster Co., Pa. Opal, from near the south fork of 

 the American River, California. 



H. W. Mitchell. Twenty-two Minerals and Rocks from Auckland, 

 New Zealand. 



W. A. Mintzer, L". S. N. Four large, black Tourmalines, 15 

 inches long. Four additional terminated Crystals, from 1 to 

 7 inches long, Harbor of Niantilik, Cumberland Gulf, north 

 lat. 64^ 50', W. long. 66° 21'. 



Galloway C. Morris. One specimen of Coorongite ; three of 

 Mineral Caoutchonc, from Soutliern Australia. 



Mr. Julius Partz, Marecanite, near Benton, Mono Co., Cal. 

 Acicular Obsidian. Three specimens of Partzite, one Blende, 

 and one other mineral. 



Chas. C. Phillips. Two specimens of Copalite, from Zanzibar, 

 Africa; two of Asphaltum, Cuba. 



Theo. D. Rand. P'ive Molybdenites, and a specimen of Stilbile 

 from Frankford, Phila. Aragonite in Chlorite, and Millerite 




360 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1877. 



in Dolomite, Soapstone Quariy, Phila. Muscovite and Ortho- 

 clase, west of Fairmoiint Dam, Pliila. A veiy fine collection 

 of Rocks from the vicinity of Pliiladelphia, numbering 131 

 specimens. Molybdic Ochre, Upland, Delaware Co., Pa. ; 

 Metaxite, Lancaster Co., Pa. One specimen of Meerschaum; 

 two Chalcedony; one Blue Apatite; one Quartz, Pseudo- 

 morph after Calcite; one Oct. Cryst. of Zinc Blende in 

 Cryolite; one Carbonate of Iron in Crj-olite, from Greenland. 

 Also 114 specimens of minerals from the neighborhood of 

 Philadelphia. 



S. R. Roberts. Four samples of Coal Oil from Franklin, Pa. 



W. E. Rowell. A small collection of minerals and rocks from 

 Arkansas. 



Samuel L. Smedley. Two specimens of Clay dredged from mid- 

 dle of Schuylkill at Penrose Ferry bridge at a depth of 30 to 

 36 feet below low water mark. 



Adolph Lutro, through W. H. Doughert}'. One hundred and. 

 sevent3'-seven specimens of the rocks traversed by the 

 " Sutro tunnel" towards the Comstock silver lode at Vir- 

 ginia Cit}', Nevada. 



J. F. Tottenham, through A. D. Jessnp. Twenty-two specimens 

 of Beckite, from Devonshire, England. 



Jose Carlos Tracy, of the Peruvian Commission. Two hundred 

 and seventj'-seven minerals, handsomely arranged in sixteen 

 cases, from Peru. 



Jos. H. TuU. Specimens of Sulphuret of Silver (Argentite). 

 Ruby Silver (Proustite), from the Xew York CaSon, Lander 

 Co., Nevada. Coke from accidental combinations of Lignite, 

 Cottonwood CaSon, Humboldt Valley, Nevada. 



W. S. Vaux. Two large Crystals of Scapolite, from St. Lawrence 

 Co., N. Y. 



Victoria Centennial Commission, through Sir Redmond Barr3^ 

 A large mass of Garnierite from New Caledonia, Australia; 

 also specimens of Lignite, Chalcopyrite, Bituminous Coal, and 

 forty-six roek specimens from Victoria, Australia. 



Dr. Jas. White. Garnets, Ceylon. 



Jos. Wilcox. Tremolite, Quartz, Garnet, Feldspar, Crystals of 

 Serpentine and Zircon from different localities. Tremolite 

 from St. Lawrence Co., New York, and Blue Carbonate of 

 Lime from Calumet Island, Canada. Large Sphene, N. Y. 




ISTT.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361 



Fine Crystals of Felclspar from Pike's Peak, Colorado. 

 Thirteen minerals, ineluding- Feldspai', Mnseovite, Actino- 

 lite, Staurotide, Corundnm, Corundum with Ripidolite; 

 Corundum, Margarite, and Tourmaline from various locali- 

 ties. Chlorite I'seudomorph after Magnetite from Spurr 

 Mine, Michigau. Tourmaline, Alexander Co., N. C. 



The following Tasmanian minerals were presented through H. 

 P. Welch, Centennial Commissioner for Tasmania, on belialf of 

 their respective donors : — 



]>iitish and Tasmanian Charcoal Iron Co. Iron Ores, Pig Iron, 

 etc. 



Di". J. Coverdale. Red Ochre, earth for paints, pipe cla^^, from 

 Port Arthur. 



F. Groom. Coal from Fingal. Harelield. 



W. Hammond. Bismuth from Mount Ramsey, Hobart Town. 



Jas. Harcourt. Iron Ore, Pig Iron, and Coal from Seymour. 



Hrematite Iron Works. Iron Ores, Blue and AVhite Limestone, 

 AVest Tamar. 



H. J. Hull. Tin Ore, George's Bay, Hobart Town. 



J. Hurst. Coal from Tasman's Peninsula. 



J. II. Innis. Tin Ore from Ringarooma and George's Bay, Ho- 

 bart Town. 



T. C. Just. Magnetic Iron Ore, etc., Launceton. 



W. A. Kermode. Salt, from Salt Pan Plains. Two blocks of 

 Freestone, Mona Vale. 



Jas. Laughton. Umber a^nd Sienna Clay from Hobart Town. 



Lyell & Gowen. Slate, Tin Ore, Marble, Limestone, and Coal, 

 Melbourne. 



E. Raynor. Limestone, with Fossils, Bridgewater. 



Dr. Smart. Gold in quartz, Hobart Mine, Fingal, Hobart Town, 

 Stanhope County. Tin Ore. 



R. Strachan. Salt, from Salt Works, Cambridge. 



The following purchases were made : Jasper, Vergennes, Yt. ; 

 Datolite; Analcite, Phoenix, Mich.; Amethyst, L. Superior; 

 Millerite in Dolomite, St. Louis, Mo. Amazon Stone (Ortho- 

 clase), from near Pike's Peak, Colorado. Curved Crystals 

 of Calcite, Amethysts, and Agate, from the Yellowstone 

 Park, N. W. Wyoming. 

 24 




362 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[187t. 



The election of Officers for 1878 was held in accordance with 

 the B^^-lavvs, with the following result : — 



President 

 Vice-Presidents 



Recording Secretary 



W. S. W. Riischenberger, M.D. 

 Wm. S. Yaux, 

 Thomas Meehan. 

 Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



Corresponding Secretary George H. Horn, M.D. 



Wm. C. Hensze^'. 

 Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 

 Joseph Leidj^, M.D., 

 Wm. S. Yaux, 

 Chas. F. Parker, 

 R. S. Kenderdine, M. D. 

 Geo. A. Koenig, Ph. D., 

 J. H. McQuillen, M.D., 

 Chas. P. Perot, 

 Geo. Y. Shoemaker. 

 Aubrey H. Smith, 

 Robert Bridges, M.D. 

 Edward S. Wheleu. 



Treasurer 

 Librarian 

 Curators 



Councillors to serve three 

 years 



Finance Committee 



ELECTIONS DURING 1877 



MEMBERS. 



January 30. — C. W. Cross, J. T. Montgomerj-, Jos. M. Stod- 

 dart, H. Ernest Goodman, M.D., Thos. Riddle, Jr., M.D., Wm. 

 G. Audenried, Jos. Thomas, M.D., I. S. Moyer, M.D., and Cla- 

 rence C. De Lannoy. 



February 27. — Frank L. Scribner and Mrs. Marj^ Wagner. 



March 27. — Charles Ashburner and Thomas Mackellar 



April 24. — Jos. G. Rosengarten, Edgar F. Smith, Ph.D., 

 J. Marshall Stoddart, Jr., and Gertrude K. Peirce. 



May 29. — Andrew C. Craig, William John Potts, John E. 

 Cook, Charles Zentmayer, Samuel L. Fox, Shippcn Wallace, and 

 Joseph D. Schoales, M.D. 




IStT.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 363 



June 26.— Rev. Chas. F. Thomas. 



Juhj 31.— Julia A. H. Walker. 



August 28. — B. F. Lautenbacb, M.D., and Frank Wood- 

 bury, M.D. 



September 25. — A, J. Drexel, Alexis S. Cope, Miss Clementine 

 Cope, and Miss C. E. Cope. 



October 80. — C. Few Seiss, Miss E. B. Rice, Miss Mary B. 

 Rice, Andrew J. Parker, M.D., J. D. Thomas, M.D., and S. H. 

 Guilford, M.D. 



November 2^. — A. H. Franeiscus, Henry Peraberton, Jr., 

 Henr}' Cope Haines, Oswald J. Heinrich, and Wm. R. Wharton. 



CORRESPONDENTS. 



January 30. — J. M. Pa Silva Coutinho, M.D., of Rio Janeiro; 

 Wm. A. Mintzer, M.D., U. S. N. ; L. Nicholsky, of St. Petersburg ; 

 Gen. A. Gadolin, of St. Petersburg; Nikolai V. Kokscharow, of 

 St. Petersburg, and L. de Koninck, of Bruxelles. 



February 27. — Alphonse Favre, of Geneva ; Percival De Loriol, 

 of Geneva; Baron Ferdinand Freiherr Von Richthofen, of Ber- 

 lin ; Dr. Fred. Yon Hochstetter, of Vienna; Edouard Desor, of 

 Neuchatel ; Ludwig Riitimej-er, of Basel; Valerien De Moeller, 

 of St. Petersburg ; H. Trautschold, of Moscow ; and Lieut. A. W. 

 Vogdes, U. S. A. 



Mai'ch 2T. — P. A. Von Kotschubey, of St. Petersburg. 



August 28. — Wm. A. Buckhout, of Centre County, Pa. 



September 25. — Clarence King, of Washington ; Daniel C. Eaton, 

 of New Haven; Count A. G. Marschall, of Vienna; Edward Von 

 Mojsisovics, of Vienna; Dlonys Stur, of Vienna; Franz Toula, of 

 Vienna; A. Bastian, of Vienna ; J. G. Rein, of Frankfurt on the 

 Main ; C. Arendts, of Munich ; Spiridione Brusina, of Agram ; 

 Jos. Szabo, of Buda Pest ; C. Stahl, of Stockholm ; Philippe de la 

 Harpe, of Lausanne; Elisee F. Recliis, of Paris ; Emile Cartail- 

 bac, of Toulouse ; Ernest Chantre, of Lj'on ; J. J. Collenot, of 

 Seraur; Henri Coquand, of Marseilles; Jules Gosselet, of Lille; 

 Edmund Hubert, of Paris; Wm. Boj-d Dawkins, of Manchester; 

 Peter Martin Duncan, of London ; A. H. Green, of Leeds ; J. W. 

 Judd, of London ; John Morris, of London ; Andrew Murra}^ of 




3C4 PROCEEDINGS OF ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES. [ISTT. 



London ; Wm. Whitaker, of London ; and H. B. Medlicott, of 

 Calcutta. 



October 30. — Sereno E. Watson, of Camlnidge ; Wm. G. Far- 

 low, of Cambridge; Geo. L. Goodale, of Cambridge; John Duns, 

 of p]dinburgli; Dr. Ernst Candeze, of Liege; Dr. C. A. Dohrn, of 

 Stettin; Baron E. Yon Harold, of Berlin; Vieorate Henri de 

 Bonvouloir, of Paris; Baron Maximilien de Cliaiidi)ir, of St. Pe- 

 tersburg; Henry W. Bates, of London; Etienne Mulsant, of 

 Lyons; M. A. Chevrolat, of Paris; S. Solsky, of St. Petersburg; 

 Alfred Preudhomrae de Borre, of Bruxelles; Jules Putze3's, of 

 Bruxelles; Clias. C. Parry, of Davenport, Iowa; A. Ernst, of 

 Venezuela; G. Y. Black, of Jacksonville, HI ; R. J. Lecliraere 

 Guppy, of Port of Spain, Ti-inidad; and ICdvv. Hull, of Dublin. 



November 27. — H. Halloway, M.D., of Laporte, Ind.; Dr.Robt. 

 Wiedersheim, of Freiburg i B. ; Carl Semper, of Wiirzburg ; Chas. 

 Brongniart, of Paris; George Bowdler Buckton, of Weycombe, 

 Haslemere, P^ngland ; and Geo. W. Lawrence, M.D., of Hot 

 Springs, Arkansas 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 365 



ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY, 1877. 



Adams, A. L. Notes of a Naturalist in the Nile Valley and Malta. 

 Field and Forest Rambles. I. V. AVilliamson Fund. 

 Observations on the Eemains of the Mammoth and other Mammals 



from Northern Spain. 

 On a Fossil .Saurian Vertebra (Arctosaurus Osborni) from the Arctic 



Regions. 

 On Gigantic Land Tortoises. 



Monograph of the British Fossil Elephants. Part I. The Author. 

 Albertis, L. M. D'. Journal of the Expedition for the Exploration of the 



Fly River. Dr. Geo. Bennett. 

 Allen, J. A. The Influence of Physical Culture in the Genesis of Species. 



The Author. 

 Armstrong, J., John Young, and David Robertson. Catalogue of the 



"Western Scottish Fossils. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Ashburner, C. A. Measured Section of the Palaeozoic Formations in Mid- 

 dle Pennsylvania. The Author. 

 Ashhurst, J. Transactions of the International Medical Congress, 1876. 



The Editor. 

 Baillon, M. H. Dictionnairc.de Botanique. Nos. 1-6. I. V. "Williamson 

 Fund. 

 Natural History of Plants. Vols. 2, 3, 4. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Baily, W. H. Figure of Characteristic British Fossils. Parts III. and 



IV. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Barber, E. A. Aborigiiuil Funeral Customs in the United States. By E. 

 A. Barber. 'J'lie Author. 

 Comparative Vocabulary of Utah Dialects. The Author. 

 Bdrcena, M. Noticia Cientifica de una parte del Estado de Hidalgo. The 



Author. 

 Barker, J. N. Botanical Journal. 

 Barkow, H. C. L. Comparative Mnrphologie des Menschen und dcr Mens- 



cheniihnlichen Thiere. ler Th. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Barton, W. P. C. Compendium of Medical Botany. 

 Flora of North America. 

 Essays on Materia Medica. 



Elements of Botany. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 

 Bartsch, S. Rotularia Hungariie. Hungarian Academy of Sciences. 

 Bary, A. de. Ueber die Fruchtentwickelung der Ascomyceten. Rathmell 



Wilson. 

 Beck's Botany. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 

 Bellardi, L. I MoUuschi dei terreni terziari del Piemonte c della Liguria. 



Parte I. and II. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Belt, T. The Drift of Cornwall and Devon. 



On the Loess of the Rhine and the Danube. 



Geological Age of the Deposits containing Flint Implements at Hoxnc. 



The Author. 

 The Steppes of Siberia. The Author. 



The Glacial Period in the Southern Hemisphere. The Author. 

 Beuecke, K. W. Geognostisch-paliiontologischc Beitriige. 2er Bd. 3 

 Heft. 




366 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Benoit's Testacei Estraniarini della Sicilia ulteriore. Quad. I. RathmcU 



Wilson. 

 Bentham and Hooker's Genera of Plants. Vols. I. and II. Conarroe 



Fund. 

 Berendt's Organisclie Reste im Bernstein. Rathmell AVilson. 

 Bergen's Museum. Samlingen af Norske Oldsager. Katalog over Dyrsam- 



lingen. The Museum. 

 Bertkau, P. Bericht liber die Wissenschaftlichen Leistungen im Gebiete 



der Entomologie, 1871-72. Wilson Fund. 

 Besler, B. Hortus Eystettensis, 1613. Deposited by Messrs. Pawson and 



Nicholson. 

 Biedermann, W. G. A. Cheloniens Tertiaries des environs de Winterthur. 



Rathmell Wilson. 

 Bigelow's Plants of Boston. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 



Medical Botany. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 

 Binney, W. G. Nineteen Conchological Pamphlets. The Author. 

 Bischoff's Chemical and Physical Geology. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 

 Bischoff. T. L. W. Historisch-kritische Bemerkungen zu den neuesten 

 Mittheilungen liber dieerste Entwickelung der Saugethiereier. I. V. 

 Williamson Fund. 

 Blanchard, E. Les Insectes. Livrs 5-45. Wilson Fund. 



Uu Naturaliste du Dix-Neuvieme Siecle, Louis Agassiz. The Author. 

 Bland, T., and W, G. Binney. On the Systematic Arrangement of the 



North American Mollusks. T. Bland. 

 Bleek, W. H. I. Brief Account of Bushman Folk Lore. H. C. Coates. 

 Bleeker, P. Atlas Ichthyologique des ludes Orientales N6erlandaises. 

 Livrs. 31-33. AVilson Fund. 

 Same. Livr. 21. Rathmell Wilson. 

 Blytt, Axel. Norges Flora. 3e Dl. Royal Norwegian Society of Sciences. 

 Bohnenseig, G. C. W. and W. Burck. 'Repertorinm Annuum Literaturai 



Botanies PeriodiciE. S. II. and III. I. V. Wiliamson Fund. 

 Bois-Reyniond, Edw. Gesanimelte Abhandlungen zur allgenieinen Muskel- 



und Nervenphysik. 2er. Bd. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Boissier, E. Flora Orientales. A^ols. I.-IV., Fasc. I. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Bolton, H. C. Application of Organic Acids to the Examination of Mine- 

 rals. The Author. 

 Bornet, E. and G. Thuret. Notes Algologiques. Fasc. ler. I. Y. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 Bourguignot's Malacologie de I'Algerie. fime. Fasc. Rathmell Wilson. 

 Brehm's Thierleben. 1 Bd. 1 to 12 Heft; 2 Bd. 1-11 Heft; 3 Bd. 1-4 



Heft; 9er Bd. 1-13 Heft. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Brereton's Flora Columbiana. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 

 Brightwell, Miss. Life of Linnajus. Rathmell Wilson. 

 British Museum Catalogues. List of the Specimens of Birds. Part II., 

 Section 3 and 4 ; Part V. 

 List of the Mollusca. Part II. 

 Carnivorous Mammalia. 

 Ruminants (Pecora). 

 Handlist of Edentate Mammals. 

 Catalogue of Seals, and Supplement. 

 Handlist of Seals. 

 Catalogue of Monkeys. 

 Catalogue of Bones of Mammals. 



Catalogue of Shield Reptiles, Supplement 1, Appendix, and Part II. 

 Handlist of Shield Reptiles. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 361 



Catalogue of Amphipodous Crustacea. 

 Catalogue of Sea Pens. 

 Catalogue of Lithophytes. 

 Catalogue of Marine Pol3Zoa. Part II. 

 Catalogue of British Birds. 



Catalogue of Non-parasitic Worms. I. V. "Williamson Fund. 

 Catalogue of Birds. Vol. 3. The Trustees. 

 Catalogue of British Hymenoptera, 2d ed. Part I. The Trustees. 

 Broggcr, W. C. Bidrag til Kristianiafjordens Molluskfauna. I. V. AYil- 



liamsou Fund. 

 Brone-Yolber, A. J. Aphorismes de Medicine Positive. The Author. 

 Brown. H. G. Khissen und Ordnungen des Thier-Reichs. 5er Bd. 21-24 

 Lief. ; 6er Bd. ; I. Abth. 2 Lief. ; II. Abth. 14-17 Lief; V. Abth. 13 

 and 14 Lief. Wilson Fund. 

 Brown, J. C. Forests and Moisture. Conarroe Fund. 

 Brown, C. B. Cave and Camp Life in British Guiana. I. Y. AVilliamson 



Fuud. 

 Bruch, C. Vergleichende Osteologie des Rheinlachses. 

 Brlihl, C. B. Zootomie aller Thierklassen. Lief. 6, 7. I. Y. "Williamson 



Fund. 

 Brusina, S. Ipsa Chiereghini Conchylia. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Buch, L. von. Gesanimelte Schriften. 3er Bd. I. V. AVilliarason Fund. 

 Buckton, G. B. Monograph of the British Aphides. Yol. I. I. Y. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 Bulletin Met^orologique Mensuel de I'Observatoire de I'L'niversite d'Upsal. 



YII. The University. 

 Bureau of Statistics. Quarterly Report, Nos. 1, 2. Treasury Department. 

 Bushman, An Old. Spring and Summer in Lapland. Conarroe Fund. 

 Butler, A. G. Illustrations of Typical Specimens of Lepidoptera Hetero- 

 cera in the collection of the British Museum. The 'J'rustces of the 

 Museum. 

 Cameron. Y. L. Across Africa. Conarroe Fuud. 

 Campbell, A. S. Full-terra Extra-uterine Gestation of the Tubo-ovarian 



Form. The Author. 

 Canefri, C. T. Studio Monografico Sopra i jNIuricidi del Mar Rosso. I. Y. 

 Williamson Fund. 

 Zoologia del Yiaggio Intorno al Globo, 1865-68. 

 Malacologia. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Capel, C. C. Trout Culture. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Capellini, G. L'Uomo Pliocenico in Toscana. 



Sui Terreni terziari die una parte del versanti settentrionale dell 



Apennino. 

 Sui Cetoterii Bolognesi. The Author. 

 Carpenter, P. P., Memoir of. 2d ed. The Author. 



Carpenter, W. P. The Microscope and its Revelations. I. Y. Williamson 

 Fund. 

 Principles of Mental Physiology. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Carrington, B. British Hepatic;e. Parts I.-IY. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Cams' Icones Zootomicai. le Hefte. Rathmell AVilson. 

 Cassell's Popular Natural History. Yols. 1-4. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Cassin, J. Birds of California. No. 1. Rathmell Wilson. 

 Catalogue of the Books in the South African Library. H. C. Coates. 

 Cazzuola, F. Dizionario di Botanico. The Author. 



Centennial Exhibition, Portuguese Department. Five Catalogues. Portu- 

 guese Commission. 

 Chaille, C. Central Africa. Conarroe Fund. 




3G8 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Chapman. E. J. An Onlline of the Geology of Canada. Conarroc Fund. 

 Chaud6, I'Abb^. Botanique Descriptive. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Chaumeton. Ferret and Chamberet's Flore Medicale. Heirs of Dr. Jos. 



Carson. 

 Chief of the Bureau of Statistics. Quarterly Report, No. 4. 'I'he Treasury 



Department. 

 Chief of Engineers. Annual Report, 1876, Parts I., II., III. War De- 

 partment. 

 Chief Engineer of Water Department, Philadelphia. Annual Report, 1876. 



Wm. H. McFadden. 

 Claparede, E. Recherches sur rEvohition des Araignees. Rathmell 



Wilson. 

 Clapp's Synopsis of the Medicinal Plants of the United States. Heirs of 



Dr. Jos. Carson. 

 Clarke, W. B. Mines and Mineral Statistics of New South Wales. N. S. 



W. Centennial Commission. 

 Claus, C. Traite de Zoologie. Fasc. 7. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Untersuchungen zur Erforschung der Geneologischen Grundlage des 

 Crustaceen-Systems. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Claus, C.,and G. Moquin-Taudon. Traite de Zoologie, Fasc. 6. I. Y. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 Clement, C. Catalogue des Mollusques Marins du Gard. I. V. William- 

 son Fund. 

 Coates, I. T. Centennial Fourth of July Oration delivered at Chester, Pa. 



The Author. 

 Cohn. F. Beitrage zur Biologie der Pflanzen. 1-3 Heft, and 2er Bd. 

 1 and 2 Heft. I. V. AVilliamson Fund. 

 Kryptogamen-Flora von Schlesien. ler Bd. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Colorado, Drainage Map of. Department of the Interior. 

 Commissioner of Education. Report, 1875. Bureau of Education. 

 Commissioner of Indian Affairs. Annual Report, 1876. Department of 



the Interior. 

 Commissao Geologica de Portugal. Estudos Geologicos, 1866-67. Lau- 



reuQO Malheiro. 

 Commissao Central Permanent de Geographia Annaes, No. 1. The Com- 

 mission. 

 Cook, G. H. Amiual Report of the State Geologist of New Jersey, 1872 



and 1876. The Author. 

 Cooke, M . C. Manual of Structural Botany. T. V. Williamson Fund. 

 A Plain and Easy Account of the British Fungi. 

 Mycographia seu Icones Fungorum. Parts I., II.. III. The Author. 

 Contributions to Mycologia Britannica. The Myxomycetes of Great 

 Britain. The Author. 

 Cope, E. D. Paleontological Bulletin. Nos. 24-26. 



Partial Synopsis of the Fresh-water Fishes of North Carolina. The 



Author. 

 U. S. Geographical Survey west of the 100th ^leridian. Part II.. 



Vol. 4 — Paleontology. 'I'he Author. 

 Tenth Contribution to the Herpetology of Tropical America. The 



Author. 

 On the Brain of Coryphodon. The Author. 

 On the Brain of Procamelus Occidentalis. The Author. 

 On some Extinct Reptiles and Batrachians from the Judith River and 

 Fox Hills Beds of Montana. The Author. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 369 



Report on the Geolofry of the resj^ion of the Judith River, Montana, 

 and on Vertebrate Fossils obtained on or near the Missouri River. 

 The Author. 

 Synopsis of the Cold-blooded Yertebrata procured by Prof. James Or- 



ton during his explorations of Peru. The xluthor. 

 On the Vertebrata of the Roue-bed of Eastern Illinois. The Autlior. 

 Ratrachia and Repfilia of Costa Rica. The Author. 

 Cordeaux. J. Rirds of the I lumber District. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Cordier, F. S. Les Champig-uons. 4ine ed. T. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Coues, E.. and J. A. Allen. jNIonographs of North American Rodeutia. 



Department of the Interior. 

 Coultas' Principles of Rotany, Phaneroaamia and Cryptogamia. 



The Plant. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 

 Cresson. E. T. Report upon the Collections of ITymenoptera made in 

 Nevada, Utah, etc., during 1872, '73, '74. The Author. 

 Notes on the Species belonging to the sub-family Ichncumonides found 

 in America north of Mexico. The Author. 

 Cressy, N. Second, Third, and Fourth Annual Reports on the Diseases of 



Domestic Animals in Connecticut. The Author. 

 Crow, H. Zoophiles. Rathmell Wilson. 



Cura Completa para Cal)allos. Portuguese Centennial Commission. 

 Cuvier, Raron. 'I'he Animal Kingdom, with additions by W. R. Carpenter 



and J. O. AVestwood. I. V. AVilliamsoii Fund. 

 Cuvier, (>., and Laurillard. Auatomie Compar6e. Text and Plates. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Dales, S. N. 'I'he Harmony between Christian Faith and Physical Science. 



'I"he Author. 

 Dall, AV. II. On the Californian Species of Fusus. 



Preliminary Descriptions of New Species of MoUusks from the North- 

 west Coast of America. The Author. 

 Dana, E. S. A Text-Rook of Mineralogy. The Conarroe Fund. 

 Dana, J. D. An Account of the Discoveries in Vermont Geology of the 

 Rev. Aug. Wing. Also, on the Relations of the Geology of Ver- 

 mont to that of Rerkshire. The Author. 

 Darlington's Flora Cestrica. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 

 Darwin, C. The Diiferent Forms of Flowers on Plants of the same species. 

 I. V. AVilliamson Fund. 

 The Effect of Cross and Self-fertilization in the Vegetable Kingdom. 



Conarroe Fund. 

 Movements and Habits of Climbing Plants. 2d ed. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 The Various Contrivances by M'hich Orchards are Fertilized by In- 

 sects. 2d ed. ('Onarroe Fund. 

 Dawson, J. W. The Dawn of Life. Conarroe Fund. 

 De Candolle's Cours de Rotanique. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 

 Decken, ('. C. von der. Reisen in Ost-Afrika. 3er Rd., 2 Abth. I. V. 



AN^illiamson Fund. 

 Delaharpe, Ph. Quelqucs Mots sur la Flore Tertiare de I'Angleterre. 



p]xamen de I'Hypothfese de M. t). Sharpe sur I'Existence d'unc Mcr 



diluvienne baignant les Alpes. 

 Ossements Appartenant a I'Anthracotherium magnum. 

 Note sur un Nouvel Exemplaire de I'Emys Laharpi. 

 Notice sur la Faune du Terrain Siderolitheque dans le Canton de Vaud. 

 Note sur la Geologic des P]nvirons de Lonfeche-le.s-Rains. The Author.. 

 Delondre et Rouchardat's Quinologie. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 




370 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Department of Agriculture, Monthly Report, Nov. and Dec. 1876. The 



Department. 

 Department of Marine and Fisheries, Ca. Supplement No. 3 to the Ninth 



Annual Report. The Department. 

 Description dcs Appareils de Beuevides et Brito-Limpo. Portuguese Cen- 

 tennial Commission. 

 Dobson, G. E. Monograph of the Asiatic Chiroptera. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Dodge, R. I. The Plains of the Great West. Conarroe Fund. 

 Doelter, C. Die JBestimmung der petrographisch wichtigeren Mineralien 



durch das Mikroskop. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Douglas, J. AY., and J. Scott. A Catalogue of British Hemiptera, Heter- 



optera, and Homoptera. Entomological Society of London. 

 Dozy, F., and J. H. Molkeubauer. Bryologia Javanica. Fasc. 46, 47. Wil- 

 son Fund. 

 Dubrueil, E. Catalogue des Mollusques terrestres et fluviatales de rH6- 



rault. 2d ed. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Duchamp, G. Recherches sur les Ligules. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Dumont D'Urville's Yoyage au Pole Sud. Atlas Zool.. 26e. Livr. Miner- 



alogie et Gj}ologie, le, 2e, 3e Livr. Rathmell Wilson. 

 Dumortier, E. Etudes Paleontologiques sur les Depots Jurassique du 



Bassin du Rhone. T. 1-4. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Duns, J. On an unnamed Palaeozoic Annelid. The Author. 

 Dwight, T. The Anatomy of the Head. Conarroe Fund. 

 Eaton, D. C. Plain Directions for collecting Alga^. The Author. 

 Eaton's Elements of Botany. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 

 Edwards, W. H. Catalogue of the Lepidoptera of America north of 



Mexico. The Entomological Section. 

 Egger, J. Beschreibung neuer Zweifliigler. The Author. 

 Elliot's Monograph of the Tetraoninae. Pts. 1, 2, 4, 5. Rathmell Wilson. 

 Encyclopaedia Britannica. 9th ed. Yols. Y. and YI. L Y. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Ennis, J. Lecture on the Natural Sciences. The Author. 

 Erichson, W. F. Naturgeschichte der Insecten Deutschlands, le Abth. 



Coleoptera, 5e Bd. le Lief. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Ernst, A. Eludios sobra la Flora y Fauna de Yenezuela. The Author. 

 Etudes Physiologiques sur les Animaux des Infusions Yegetals. Tomes 



1, 2. I Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Eyton. T. C. Osteologia Avium. No. 12. Rathmell AVilson. 

 Fedtscheudo, A. Reise in Turkestan. I. and II., 1-11. Zoologischer Th. 



XI. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Fischer, H. Nephrit und Jadeit. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Fisher. P. Faune Conchyliologique Marine du Departemeut de la Gironde. 



Ire and 2e Suppl. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Becherclies sur les Actinies des Cotes Oceaniques de France. I. Y. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Folin, L. De. Les Meleagrinicoles. Espfeces Nouvelles. I. Y. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Forestry Cii'culars. Nos. 1, 2, 4, .5. F. B. Hough. 



Foster, \M., and F. M. Balfour. The Elements of Embryology. I. Y. Wil- 

 liamson P^ind. 

 Fresenius' Qualitative and Quantitative Analysis. Heirs of Dr. Jos. 



Carson. 

 Frey, H. The Microscope and Microscopical Technology. Translated by 



Geo. R. Cutter. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 371 



Friele, H. Bidrag til Vestlandets Molluskfauna. 



Report ou ^rollusca of the Norwegian North Atlantic Expedition 



ill 1876. The Author. 

 Friele, H.. and G. A. Hansen. Bidrag til Kundskaben om de Norske 



Nudibranchier. 

 Fuchs. K. Les Yolcans et les Tremblements de Terre. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Gadolin, A. M^moire sur la deduction d'un seul principe de toui? les sys- 



tfemes crjstallographiqiies avec leur subdivisions. The Author. 

 Gaimard's Voyage en Islande et au Groenlaud. Atlas, Mam. Pis. 11, 13, 



14, 22. Rathmell Wilson. 

 Gannett, H. U. S. Geol. Survey. Lists of elevations. 4th ed. Depart- 

 ment of Interior. 

 Garcia, J. A. G. i. El Monitor rebelde Huascar,. The Author. 

 Garrigues, S. S. Report ou the Salt Manufacture of Michigan. The 



Author. 

 Gassies, J. B. Faune Conchyliologique de la Nouvelle-Caledonie. 2e 



partie. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Gaudry, A. Materiaux pour I'Histoire des Temps Quaternaires. 1 Fasc. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Gegenbauer, C. Untersuchungen zur vergleichenden Anatomic der Wir- 



belthiere. 2es Heft. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Genth. F. A. Second Geological Survey of Pennsylvania, 1875. 



Second Preliminary Report on the Mineralogy of Pennsylvania. The 



Survey. 

 On some Tellurium and Vanadium Minerals. The Author. 

 Gentry, T. G. Life-Histories of the Birds of Eastern Pennsylvania. Vol. 2. 



The Author. 

 Geological Survey of Great Britain, Memoirs of the. The Iron Ores of 



Great Britain. I.-IV. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Figures and Descriptions of British Organic Remains. Mon. I. and 



Plates; Decade XII. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Geological Survey of India. Records, Vol. 9 ; Pts. 2, 3, 4. 

 Memoirs, 8vo. Vol. 12. Pts. 1, 2. 

 Memoirs, 4to. Falffiontologica Indica. Sex. X. 2 ; XI. 1. The 



Survey. 

 Geological Survey of Indiana. Third and Fourth Annual Reports. Dr. G. 



M. Levette. 

 Geologist of New Jersey, Annual Reports, 1870, '71, '74, '75, '76. The 



Author. 

 Geological Survey of New Zealand. Reports, 1873-4, 1874-6, 1876-7. 



Maps of the Buller Coal Field. .Tames Hector. 

 Geological Survey of Pennsylvania, 1875. Reports of progress CC, HH, 



and L. The Commissioners. 

 Gesner, Wm. Alabama geological sections of the Warrior and Cahaba 



coal measures. The Author. 

 Gervais, H., et R. Boulart. Les Poissons. Vols. 2, 3. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Giebel, C. G. Thesaurus Ornithologiae. 6er Halbbd. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Die Saugethiere. 2eAusg. ; le, 2e Halfte. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Gillet, C. G. Les Champignon qui Croissent en France. 2me, 3me Partie. 



I. V. AVilliamson Fund. 

 Glover, T. Manuscript Notes from my Journal, or Illustrations of Insects, 



native and foreign. Order, Hemiptera ; sub-order Heteroptera, or 



plant bugs. The Author. 




372 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY, 



Gmelin's Handbook of Cbemisf ry. 19 volumes. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 

 Goode, G. B. Classification of tbe Collection to illustrate the animal re- 

 sources of the United States. 'J"he Smithsonian Institution. 

 Gonnard. F. ^lin^ralogie du Department du Puy-de Dome. 2e ed. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Gore. J. E. Glossary of Fossil Mammalia, for the use of students of Palae- 

 ontology. I. V. "Williamson Fund. 

 Gosse, P. H. Manual of Marine Zoology. Ratbmell Wilson. 



Tenby. Rathmell Wilson. 

 Gosselet, J. L'etage eocene inferieur dans le nord de la France et en Bel- 

 gique. 

 De I'extension des couches a Nummulites laevigata dans le nord de la 



France. 

 Carte geologique ue la bande meridionale des calcaires Devoniens de 



rKntre-Sambre-et-Meuse. 

 La Marne de la Porquerie. 



Documents nouveaux sur I'Allure du terrain houillier au sud du bassin 

 ^ de Valenciennes. 



Ktudes relatives au bassin houillier du nord de la France. 

 Etudes sur le gisement de la houiile dans le nord de la France. 

 Quelques reflexions sur la structure et I'age du terrain houillier du 



uord de la France. 

 Quelques fossiles trouv^s dans le Silurien des Ardennes. 

 Le terrain Devonien dans les environs de Stolberg. 

 Le calcaire de Givet. 



Les progrfes de la geologic dans le nord depuis dix ans. The Author. 

 Gould, J. Birds of Great Britain. Pts. 7 and 8. Rathmell Wilson. 

 Graesse's Tresor de livres rare et precieux. T. 6me Livr. 5. Rathmell 



Wilson. 

 Graham's Elements of Chemistry, by Bridges. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 

 Grandidier, A. Histoire Physique. Naturelle et Politique, de Madagascar. 

 VL — Mammiferes. Tcxte, Ime et 2me Partie. YIII. — Hist. Nat. 

 des Oiseaux. T. IL, Atlas I. Ire Partie. 1. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Graves and Morries' Hortus Medicus. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 

 Gray, A. Kansas State Board of Agriculture. Reports, February and 



October. 

 Gray, Asa. Darwiniana. Conarroe Fund. 

 Botanical Contributions. 'Jlie Author. 

 Manual of Botany. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 

 Green, AV. L. The Hawaiian Islands on the Reseau Triangulaire. The 



Author. 

 Griffith's Chemistry of the Four Seasons. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 



Medical Botany. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 

 Grote, A. R. On the Peopling of America. The Author. 

 Groth, P. PhysiUalische Krystallographie. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Grotto Geyser of the Yellow-Stone' Park. F. Y. Hayden. 

 Grove, W. R. The Correlation of Physical Forces. 6th edition. I. Y. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Gruber, W. Ueber den Infraorbitarland bei Ausschliessung des Maxillare 

 superius von seiner Bildung beim Menschen. The Author. 

 Moiiographie uljer das Zweigetheilte erste Keilbeiu der Fusswurzel 

 beim Menschen. The Author. 

 Gscheidlen, R. Physiologische Methodik. 2e and 3e Lief. I. Y. William- 

 son Fund. 

 Guldberg, C. M., and H. Mohn. Etudes sur les Mouvements do I'Atmo- 

 sphere. University of Christiauia. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 373 



Gumbpl, C. W. Pie Geognostisclie Durchforschnng' Baj-enis. Royal Ba- 

 varian Academy. 



Gurlt, E. F. Ueber Thierische Missjreburten. I. Y. "Williaiusoii Fund. 



Hamonville, J. C. L. T. D.' Catalogue des Oiseaux d'Europe. 1. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 



Hance, H. F. Flor« Hongkoniyensis. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Hare's Compendium of Chemical Instruction, by Bache. Heirs of Dr. Jos. 

 Carson. 



Uarpe, J. C. De la. Faune Suisse Lepidopteres. 6e Partie, 3me Supl. 

 The Author. 



Hartman, AV. D., and Ezra Michener. Conchologia Cestrica. Conarroe 

 Fund. 



Harvey, W. H., and 0. AV. Souder. Flora Capensis. I. V. AYilliamson 

 Fund. 



Heckel. E. Du Mouvement Vegetal. I. V. AVilliamson Fund. 



Heeger's Album Microscopisch-Photographischer. I. and II. Eathmell 



Heer. 0. Flora Fossilis Arctica. 2, 3, 4 Bd. I. V. AYilliamson Fund. 

 Flora Fossilis Helveti;e. 2e Lief. I. Y. AA^illiamson Fund. 

 The Primaival World of Switzerland. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Herring, C. Our Xosodcs. The Author. 



Herman, O. Ungarn's Spinnen-fauna. Hungarian Academy of Sciences. 

 Hertwig, R. Zur Histologic der Radiolarien. I. Y. AVilliamson Fund. 

 Heude, R. P. Conchyliologie fluviatile de la Province de Nanking et de 



la Chine Centrale. 2e Fasc. I. Y. AVilliamson Fund. 

 Heughlin, Th, von. Ornithologie Nordest Afrika's. Bd. I., Abth. 1 and 2 ; 



Bd. II., Abth. I and 2. I. Y. AA^illiamson Fund. 

 Hewitson, AV. C. Exotic Butterflies. Nos.47, 49, 50, 54, 56, 100. AYilson 



Fund. 

 Illustrations of Diurnal Lepidoptera. Pt. 7. AA^ilson Fund. 

 Hitchcock, C. H. The Geology of New Hampshire. Part II. Depart- 

 ment of State, New Hampshire. 

 Hobkirk, C. P. Synopsis of British Mosses. I. Y. AA^'illiamson Fund. 

 Hofmeister, AV. On the germination, development, and fructification of 



the higher cryptogamia. I. Y. AA^illiamson Fund. 

 Hooker. J. D. Handbook of New Zealand Flora. I. Y. AVilliamson 



Fund. 

 Hooker, AV. J., and R. K. Grevillo. Icones Filicum. Yols. 1 and 2. 



I. Y. AVilliamson Fund. 

 Hoppe-Seyler. F. Physiologische Chemie. I. Y. AA^illiamson Fund. 

 Hornstein, F. F. Kleines Lehrbuch der Miueralogie. I. Y. AVilliamsoa 



Fund. 

 Horvath. G. Monographia Lygfeidarum Hungariaj. Hungarian Academy 



of Sciences. 

 Hough, F. B. The elephant's tusk lately found near Copenhagen. The 



Author. 

 Howard's Illustrations of the Nueva Quinologia of Pavon. Heirs of Dr. 



Jos. Carson. 

 Howell, H. H. Geology of the AVarwickshire Coal Field. I. Y. AVilliam- 

 son Fund. 

 Hugo, L, La Theoric Hugod^cimale. The Author. 

 Hull, E. Geology of the Leicestershire Coal Fields. I. Y. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Huxley. T. H. Manual of the Anatomy of Invertebrated Animals. I. Y, 



AV'illiamson Fund. 




314 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Huxley. T. H., and H. N. Martin. A Conrse of Elementary Instruction in 

 Practical Biolofjy. I. Y. "Williamson Fund. 



International Exhibition, 1876. Arkansas State Building; Catalogue of 

 Exhibits. Chas. S. Keyser. 

 Catalogue of the Russian Section. 



Portuguese Special Catalogues. Departments I.-V. Portuguese Com- 

 mission. 



Irby, L. H. L. The Ornithology of the Straits of Gibraltar. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 



James, U. P. Catalogue of the Lower Silurian Fossils of the Cincinnati 

 Group. The Author. 



Jan., Prof. Iconographie G^nerale des Ophidlens. 48me Livr. Wilson 

 Fund. 

 Same. 13me Livr. Rathmell Wilson. 



Japanese Botany. Fac-siniile. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 



Jardine, Sir W. Naturalists' Library. Natural History of Man. Ani- 

 mals— Vols. 1, 3, 4, 6, 8, 9, 11, 12. Birds— 1. 3, 5, 6, 7, 12, 13. 

 Humming Birds, 3; Fishes, .5, 6; Insects, 5. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Jardine and Selby's Illustrations of Ornithology. Yds. 1, 2, 3. Rathmell 

 Wilson. 



Jeffreys, J. G. New and peculiar Mollusca of the Pecten, Mytilus, and 

 Area families procured in the Yalorous Expedition. The Author. 



Jeffreys, J. G., and Dr. Carpenter. The Yalorous Expeditipn. Reports. 



Jheriug, H. von. Yergleichende Anatomic der Nervensystems und Phylo- 

 genie der Mollusken. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 



Johnson's Universal Cyclopaedia. Yol. 4 I. Y. Williamson Fund. 



Jukes, J. B. The South Staffordshire Coal Fields. 2d ed. I. Y. William- 

 son Fund. 



Jussieu's Bibliotheque Scientifique. Yol. 1. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 



Just, L. Botanischer Jahresbericht. 3erJahrg. ; 3er Halbbd. I.Y.Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 



Kabsch, W. Das Pflanzenleben der Erde. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 



Keller, C. Untersuchungen iiber die Anatomic und Entwicklungsgeschichte 

 einiger Spongien des Mittelmeeres. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 



Kenngott, A. Lehrbuch der Mineralogie. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 



Kerpley, A. Magyarorszag Yaskovei es Yastermeuj-ei. Hungarian Aca- 

 demy of Sciences. 



Kessler, L. Zur Entwickelung des Auges der Wirbelthiere. I. Y. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 



Kiener, L. G. Species General et Iconographie des Coquilles. continue par 

 le Dr. Fischer. Livr. 141-149. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 



Kirwan, C. De. Les Conifferes ludigeues-Exotiques. Yds. 1, 2. I. Y. 

 Williamson Fund. 



Klein, C. I^inleitung in die Krystallberechung. le und 2e Abth. I. Y. 

 Williamson Fund. 



Klein, E. The Anatomy of the Lymphatic System. II. — The Lungs. 

 'J'he Royal Society of Loudon. 



Knapp's Chemical Technology. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 



Kobelt, W. RossmUssler's Iconographie der Europaischen Land und Suss- 

 wa.sser-Conchylien. 4 Bd., 5e und 6e Lief. WiLson Fund. 

 Die Geographische Yerbreitung der BinnenmoUusken. The Author. 



Koren. J., and 1). C. Danielsen. Fauna littoralis Norwegian. The Bergen 

 Museum. 



Kossmann, R. Zoologische Ergebnisse einer Reise in die Kiistengobiete 

 des Rothen Meeres. le Halfte. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 



Krauss, C. F. F. Der Schadel des Halitherium Schinzi. Rathmell Wilson. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 375 



Krebs, The. The West ludian Marine Shells, with some remarks. The 



late Robert Swift. 

 Kiinckel d'flcrcuUiis, J. Eecherches sur rorganisation et le developpement 



des Yolucelles. Ire Partie. 

 Kuster, H. C. Systematisches Conchylien Cabinet von Martini und Chem- 

 nitz. 2.53-264 Lief. Wilson Fund. 

 Lambert's Cinchona. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 

 Landesdurchforschung von Buhmeu, Archiv. ler und 2er Bd. ; 2erBd. TI. 



Abth.. 1 und 2 Th. ; 3er Bd. II. Abth.. 1. 2, und 3 Heft; III. Abth. ; 



IV. Abth.. 2 Heft; V. Abth. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Lapa, J. I. F. Chimico Agricola ou estudo aualytico dos terrenes, das 



plantas e dos estrumos. 

 Technologia rural ou artes chimicas, agricolas e florestaes. 2 vols. 



The Author. 

 Lardner. D. Handbook of Astronomy. 4th ed. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Lartet, L. Exploration de la Mer Morte de la Palestine et de I'ldumee. 



I. Y. AVilliamsnn Fund. 

 Laurent's Chemical Method. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 

 Laval lee, A. Arboretum Segrezianum. Thos. Meehan. 

 Lawrence, G. N. Description of a new species of bird of the genus Pitau- 



gus. The Author. 

 Lawrence. G. W. The New Arkansas Traveller. The Author. 

 Lee's Botany. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 



Lehman's Physiological Chemistry. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 

 Leibig's Chemical Tracts. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 

 Leidy, Jos. Description of vertebrate remains, chiefly from the phosphate 



beds of Carolina. The Author. 

 Ancient Fauna of Nebraska. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 

 Lembeye's Aves de la Isia de Cuba. Eathmell AViJson. 

 Lettsom, J. C. Fothergill's Works. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 

 Lewes. G. H. Studies in Animal Life. Eathmell Wilson. 

 Librarian of Congress. Annual Report, 1876. The Author. 

 Library of His Excellency, Sir Geo. Grey. 2 vols. H. C. Coates. 

 Light-House Board. Annual Eeport, 1876. Treasury Department. 

 Liliencron, Freihrn. E. v. Ueber den Inhalt der AUgemcinen Bildung in 



der Zeit der Scholastik. Eoyal Academy of Sciences of Munich. 

 Lilljeborg, W. Sveriges och Norges Eyggradsjur. I., le und 2e Afd. 



I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Lindley's Introduction to Botany. 1st American edition. Heirs of Dr. 



Jos. Carson. 

 Linnaeus' Species plantarum. Ed. 4. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 



Systenia Natura, 1788. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson, 

 Liversidge, A. Fossiliferous silicious deposits froili the Eichmond Eiver, 



N. S. W. 

 On a remarkable example of contorted slate. 

 On the formation of moss, gold, and silver. 

 Note on a mineral from New South Wales, presumed to be Laumonite. 



The Author. 

 Loudon's Arboretum et Fructicetum Britannicum. Heirs of Dr, Jos. 



Carson. 

 Lucae, J. C. G. Die Robbe und die Otter. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Ludlow, Wm. Carroll. Montana to Yellowstone National Park, 1875. 



War Department. 

 Report of a Eeconnaissance from Carroll, ^[ontana Territory, on the 



Upper Missouri, to the Yellowstone National Park and return, made 



iu the suuimer of 1875. War Department. 




376 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Lunan's Hortiis Jamaiceiisis. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 

 Lyell, K. M. Geographical Handbook of all the known ferns. J. H. Red- 

 field. 

 Lyman, 13. S. Geological Survey of the Oil Lands of Japan. A report of 



progress from the first year of the oil surveys. The Author. 

 Macalister, Robt. An Introduction to Animal Morphology and Systematic 



Zoology. Part L I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Macfadyen's Flora of Jamaica. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 

 McCook, H. C. Notes on the Architecture and Habits of Formica rufa. 



The Author. 

 Mcintosh, "VV. C. The marine invertebrates and fishes of St. Andrew's. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 McKendrick, J. G. Animal Physiology. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 McLachlan, R. British Neuroptera. Entomological Society of London. 

 Monographic Revision and Synopsis of the Trichoptera of the European 



Fauna. Pts. 1-6. and Supplement I. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Mallet, Robt. Gi'eat Neapolitan Earthquake of 1857. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Marshall, T. A. British Hymenoptera : Oxyura, ChrysididiB, Ichneu- 



monida}, Braconidai, and Evaniidije. Entomological Society of 



London. 

 Marsh, 0. C. Introduction and Succession of Vertebrate Life in America. 



The Author. 

 Martens. E. v. Die Preussische Expedition nach Ost-Asien. Zoologiscbe 



Abth.. ler Bd., 2e Halfte. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Massachusetts Agricultural College. Twelfth Annual Report. 'J'he Col- 

 lege. 

 Maynard, C. J. The Birds of Florida. Pts. 1, 2, ^. Conarroe Fund. 

 Meehan, Thos. Mr. Darwin on the Fertilization of Flowers. The Author. 



On Self-fertilization and Cross-fertilization of Flowers. The Author. 

 Melliss, J. C. St. Helena. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Meriam's Insects of Surinam, 1726. Rathmell Wilson. 

 Merk, C. Excavations at the Kesslerloch near Thayngen, Switzerland. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Meyen's Geography of Plants. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 

 Meyer, H. A., and'K. jMiibins. Fauna der Kieler-Bucht. 2er. Bd. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Michaux. Flora Boreali Americana. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 

 Michler's Survey of Atrato and Tniando Rivers. Rathmell Wilson. 

 MiddendorfT's Sibirische Reise. Bd. IX., Th. 2, le Lief. Rathmell AVilson. 

 Miklucho-Maclay, N. von. Beitriige zur vergleichenden Neurologic der 



Wirbelthiere. I. und II. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Milne Edwards, M. Legons sur la Physiologic, lime vol.; Ire & 2me pts. 



Wilson Fund. 

 Crustac6s podopthalmes fossiles Rathmell Wilson. 

 Miller, A. S. The American Palaeozoic Fossils. J. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Miller, W. H. A Treatise on Crystallography. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Ministerio de Fomento de la Rcpublica Mexicana, Anales. Tomo I. The 



Author. 

 Minot, H. D. Land and Game Birds of New England. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Miquel's Prodromus Systematis Cycadearum. Rathmell Wilson. 

 Mission Scientificpie an Moxiijue et dans rAm^^-iiiue (.'ontrale. Recherches 

 Zool<)gi(iue. Myriajjodesct Orlhopl6rcs. Livr's l-iJ ; Cryptogames 

 1; Rei)tiles 1-4; Xiphosures 1-3; Poissons 1. Geologic; MSS. 

 Troano, 2 vols. 1. V. Williamson Fund. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 3*71' 



Mohl on the Vegetable Cell, by Henfrey. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 



Morfit's Clieniical and Pharmaceutical Manipulations. Heirs of Dr. Jos. 

 Carson. 



Morgan, L. H. Ancient Society. Conarroe Fund. 



Moseley, H. N. On Pelagoneinertes RoUestoni. The Author. 



On the Strncture and Relations of the Alcyonarian Heliopora Cfcrulea. 

 'I'he Author. 



Mosenthal, J. De. Ostriches and Ostrich Farming. I. Y. Williamson 

 Fund. 



Moyer, J. S. Plants. Birds, and Mammals of Rucks County. The Author. 



Mueller, F. von. Select plants readily eligible for industrial culture or 

 naturalization in Victoria. 'l"he Author. 



Miiller, J. W. Transfusion and Plethora. University of Christiania. 



Muhlenberg's Descriptiones Graminum et Plantarum Calamariarum. Heirs 

 of Dr. Jos. (Jarson. 



Muhr, J. Ueber der Mundtheile der Orthoptera. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Mulder's Chemistry of Animal and Vegetable Physiology, by Johnston. 

 Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 



Murray, A. Economic Entomology — Aptera. Conarroe Fund. 



Museum Godetfroy. Catalog. VI. The Author. 



Nageli, C, uud S. Sehweudener. Das Mikroskop. I. V. Williamson 

 Fund. 



National Printing Office at Lisbon, 1876. Portuguese Centennial Commis- 

 sion. 



Nevill. G. List of the Mollnsca brought back by Dr. J. Anderson from 

 Yunnan and Upper Burma, with descriptions of new species. The 

 Author. 



New Jersey State Board of Agriculture. Fourth Annual Report, 1876. 

 Geo. H. Cook. 



New South AVales. Mineral Map and General Statistics. 



Annual Report of the Department of Mines, 1875. N. S. AV. Centen- 

 nial Comuiission. 



Noad's Chemical Aimlysis, Qualitative and Quantitative, by Morfit. Heirs 

 of Dr. Jos. Carson. 



Nordmann's Pahvontologie Suedrusslands. Taf. 1-28. Rathmell AVilson. 



Nuttall's Genera of Plants, Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 



Observatorio Central del Palacio Nacional de Mexico. Registro Meteoro- 

 logico. 8-30. Ministerio de Fomento. 



Oca, R. Montes de. Ensayo Ornitologico de los Troquilideos Colibries de 

 Mexico. The Author. 



Oliver, D. Flora of Tropical Africa. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Orton, J. The Andes and the Amazon. 3d ed. Conarroe Fund. 



Osten Sackeu. C. R. Western Diptera. The Author. 



I'ackard, A. S., Jr. Plalf Hours with Insects. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Life Histories of Animals, including man. Conarroe Fund. 



Page, D. Advanced Text-Book of Geology. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Pakeontographica. 24er Bd., 4e and 5e Lief. 



Supplement III., Lief. 2e-6e ; General Register, Heft 2, 3. Wilson 

 Fund. 



Paleontologie Francaise — le S6rie. 'J'errain Jurassiqne — Livr. 34. Ter- 

 rain Cretace. — Livr. 27 ; 2e S6r. Livr. 21, 22, 23. Wilson Fund. 



Palmen. J. A. Ueber die Zugstrassen der Vogel. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Parker. W. K. On the Structure and Development of the Skull in the 

 Batrachia. Pt. 2. The Author. 



25 




318 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Parmentier, N. Pomme de Terre. 



Vegetaux Nouraissaus. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 

 Pascoe, F. P. Zoolog-ical Classification. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Pauly, A. Ueber die Wasseratbniung der Linnaeiden. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Pavy, F. W. On the Physiology of Sugar in relation to the blood. The 



Author. 

 Payer, J. New Lands within the Arctic Circle. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Peale, A. C. On a peculiar type of Eruptive Mountains iu Colorado. The 



Author. 

 Peaslee, E. R., T. A. Emmet, and S. G. Thomas. Reply to Dr. J. Marion 



Sims. The Authors. 

 Pelletan, J. Le Microscope son emploi et ses applications. I. V.William- 

 son Fund. 

 Penning, AV. H. Field Geology. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Perez, S. M. La Industria y el Poder. The Author. 

 Peschel, 0. The Races of Man. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Pfeffer, W. Osmotische Untersuchungen. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Pfeiffer, L. Monographia Heliceorum Viventium. Vol. 8; Fasc. 3, 4. 



Wilson Fund. 

 Pictet's Materiaux pour la Paleontologie Suisse. 4me S^r., le Livr. 



Rathmell Wilson. 

 Plateau, F. Recherches sur les Phenomfenes de la Digestion chez les 



Myriapodes de Belgique. 

 Note sur une secretion propre aux Coleoptferes Dystiscides. 

 Note sur les Phenomfenes de la Digestion chez la Blatte Americaine. 

 Note sur les Phenomfenes de la Digestion et snr la Structure de la Ap- 



pareil Digestif chez les Phalangides. 

 Les Voyages des Naturalistes Beiges. The Authoi'. 

 Poly, F. Enumeratio Piscium Cubensium. The Author. 

 Polk, L. L. Monthly Crop Reports of the North Carolina Department of 



Agriculture, 1877. The Author. 

 Popular Treatise on Vegetable Physiology, 1842. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 

 Porchcr's Cryptogamic Plants of the United States. Heirs of Dr. Jos. 



Carson. 

 Pouchet, G. Memoires sur le Grand Fourmilier. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Pouchet's Botanique. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 



Prantl, C. v. Verstehen nnd Beurtheilen. Royal Bavarian Academy. 

 Prejevalsky, N. Mongolia, the Tangut Country, and the Solitudes of 



Northern Thibet. 1. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Prentice, W. P. Closing Argument in the case of the People v. Schrumpf. 



The Author. 

 Probyn, J. W. Correspondence relative to the budgets of various countries. 



The Cobden Club. 

 I'rovancher, L. Petite Faune Entomologique du Canada. The Author. 

 Public Liljraries of the United States. Special Report. Parts L and II. 



Bureau of Education 

 Pursch's Flora of North America. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 

 Rafiiiesque, C. S. Caratteri di alcuni nuovi generi e nuove specie di animali 



e piante della Sicilia, 1810. 

 Alsographia Americana. 



'J'he Good Book. No. L — Amenities of Nature. 

 'J'wenty plates of fishes and plants. 

 Bains M6dicinaux de Prosper. Isaac Burk. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 379 



Ramsay, E. P. Catalogue of Australian Accipitres. 



Hints for the Preservation of Specimens of Natural History for museum 



purposes. 

 Zoology of the Chevert. The Author. 

 Ranvier. L." Trait6 Technique d'Histologie. Fasc. 1-4. I. Y. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Rapp, ^Y. von. Anatomische Untersuchungen liber die Edentaten. 2e 



Aufl. I. v. Williamson Fund. 

 Rathke. H. Ueber die Entwickelung der Schildkroten. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Ray's Catalogus Planta'rum Anglia;, 1670. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 

 Reeve, L. Conchologia Iconica. Pts. 330-335. Wilson Fund. 

 Regnault's Chemistry. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 

 Reid, G. H. An Essay on New South Wales. The Author. 

 Reinsc-h. P. F. Contributiones ad algologiam et fungologiam. Yol. 1. 



Notiz liber die mikrokospische Fauna der mittleren uud der unteren 



frankischen Liasschichten. 

 Notiz liber die mikroskopische structur der Hagelkorner. 

 Kenntniss der chemischen bestandtheile der weissen Mistil (Yiscum 



album. L.). The Author. 

 Die Meteorsteine. 

 Reise der Osterreichischen Fregatte Novara um die Erde. Zoologischer 



Theil. Bd. I.. Bd. II., 2e Abth. A. und B.; 2e Abth. Text und Atlas; 



3e Abth. Geologischer Theil, Bd. I. ; le und 2e Abth., Bd. II. An- 



thropologischer 'I'heil, 1, 2, und 3e Abth. Linguistischer Theil. Bo- 



tanischer Theil. Bd. I. Medicinischer Theil, Bd. I. Nautisch-phy- 



sicalischer Theil, l-3e Abth. Statistisch-commercieller Theil, Bd. I. 



und II. 

 Seven geological maps on rollers. The Royal Academy of Sciences of 



Yienna. 

 Review of the Commercial, Financial, and Mining interests of the State of 



California. The Author. 

 Revista de Obras Publicas e Minas. I.-YI. Laurenco Malheiro. 

 Reynaud, L. Memoir upon the Illumination and Beaconage of the coast of 



France. Treasury Department. 

 Richthofen, F. Freiherrn von. China, ler Bd. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Riviuus' lutroductio Generalis in rem Herbariam, 1720. Heirs of Dr. Jos. 



Carson. 

 Riviere, ]M. E. Sur une amulette en schiste talquex trouv6e dans les 



Grottes de Menton. The Author. 

 Robinson, Chas. New South Wales. N. S. W. Centennial Commission. 

 Roemer. F. Lethjea Geocnostica. I. Theil, Lethaa palieozoica. Atlas, 



1876. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 RoUeston, G. Forms of Animal Life. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Roscoe, Prof. What is the earth composed of? I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Rose, G. Pjlemente der Krystallographie. 3e Aufl. I. Y. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Rosenbuch, H. Mikroskopische Physiographie der massigen Gesteine. II. 



I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Rossm'cissler's Iconographie der Europaischen Land-und Susswasser-Mol- 



lusken. 5er Bd. ; le-3e Lief. Wilson Fund. 

 Rothrock, J. S. Flora of Alaska. The Author. 

 Rougemont, Ph. de. Etude de la Faune des eaux privies de lumifere. 



I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Rowley. Ornithological Miscellany. 5-9. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Royal Botanic Garden, Edinburgh. Report for 1876. 'J'he Society. 




380 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Rudingcr, Prof. Dr. Beitrage zur vergleichenden Analomie und Histologic 

 der Ohrtrompete. I. V. Williumson Fund. 



Rliss, Dr. K. Die fremdraiidischeu Stubenvogel. 5e und 6e Lief. I. V. 

 AVillianison Fund. 



Riissel's National History of Aleppo. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 



Rutgers Scientific School. Twelfth Annual Report. T. A. Conrad. 



Rutherford, Wra. Outlines of Practical Histology. I. Y. Williamson 

 Fund. 



Sadebeck, A. Angewandte Krystallographie. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Salter, J. W. A Catalogue of the Collection of Canil)rian and Silurian 

 Fossils contained in the Geological Museum of the University of 

 Cambridge. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Sandberger, C. L. F Die Land- und Susswasser Couchylien der Yorwelt. 

 L V. Williamson Fund. 



Sars, G. 0. On some remarkable forms of animal life from the great deeps 

 of the Norwegian coast. IL University of Christiania. 



Saussure, H. De. Rapport sur le Concours Agricole, 1876. 'I"he Author. 

 Synopsis of American Wasps. The Smithsonian Institution. 

 Fedtscheoko's Voyage au 'I'urkestan. Orthopteres. The Author. 



Savvkins, J. G. Reports on the Geology of Jamaica. I. Y. Williamson 

 Fund. 



Schabus, J. Bestimmung der Krystallgestalten. L Y. Williamson Fund. 



Scheffler, H. Die Naturgesetze und ihr Zusaminenhang mit den Priuzipien 

 der abstrakten Wissenschaften. The Author. 



Schenk, S. L. Mittheilungen aus dem embryoiogischen Institute der k. k. 

 Uuiversitat in Wien. 1 Heft. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Schlegel, H. Museum d'Histoire Naturelle des Pays-Bas. 2me, 8me, et 

 9me Livr. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 



Schleiden's Principles of Botany. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 



Sclater, P. L., and O. Salvin. Nomenclator Avium Neotropicalium. I. Y. 

 Williamson Fund. 



Schmidt, A. Atlas der Diatomaceen-kunde. 11-14 Heft. I. Y. William- 

 son Fund. 



Schom burgh, R. Botanical Reminiscences in British Guiana. I. Y. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 



School of Mines, Record of. Yol. 1 ; Pts. 1, :^, and 4. I. Y. Williamson 

 Fund. 



School Almanac, 1876. H. C. Coates. 



School-Books and Testaments in South African Dialects. H. C. (;oates. 



School of iMines, Ballaarat. Annual Report, 1876. The Council. 



Schrauf, A. Lehrbuch der Physikalischeu Miueralogie. 1. und II. Bd. 

 I. Y. Williamson Fund. 



Schrenck, Ij. v. Reisen und Forschuugen im Amur-Lande. Bd. 4 ; 2e 

 Lief. Wilson Fund. 



Scudder, S. H. The Insects of the 'I'ertiary Beds at Quesnel. 'J"he Author. 

 On the Classification of Butterflies. The Author. 

 Report upon the Orlhoptera collected by the expedition for geographi- 

 cal survey west of the 100th meridian during field season of 187;"). 

 The Author. 



Schlibeler, F. C. Die Pflanzenwelt Norwegians. Dr. Alf. Fricke. 

 Same. Uuiver.sity of Christiania. 



Schulz, D. G. Atlas Geologic© y Topografico de Asturias. Geological 

 Survey of Spain. 



Seidlitz, G. Die Otiorhynchiden s. sir. nach den morphologischen Yer- 

 wandtschaftsverhaltnisse ihres Hautscelet's vergleichend. The Au- 

 thor. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 381 



Semper, C. Eiitwickelungsgeschichte der AnipulUiria polita. Rathinell 

 Wilson. 

 Reiscn im Archipel der Philippiuen. 2er Th. ; 2er Ed. 11 Heft. 

 I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Seue, C. de. Windrosen des sudlichen Norwegens. University of Chris- 



tiania. 

 Seynes, J. De. Recherches pour servir a I'Histoire Naturelle des Yegetau.x 



Inf6rienres. I. Des Fistulines. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Sharp, S. Rudiments of (ileology. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Shelly, G. E. A Handbook of the Birds of Egypt. J. Y. AVilliamsou 



Fund. 

 Siebke, H. Enumeratio Inscctoruni Norvegicorum. Fasc. 3, 4. Univer- 

 sity of Christiania. 

 Siebold. C. Th. v. Anatomy of the Tnvertebrata. Translated by Waldo J. 

 Burnett. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 On a true Parthenogenesis in Moths and Bees. Rathinell Wilson. 

 Smith's Grammar of Botany. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 

 Smith, E. F. Upon some new Chlorine Derivatives from Toluol. 

 Tri-snbstitution Derivatives of Benzol. 

 Dichlorsalioylic Acid. The Author. 

 Smith, F. British Hymenoptera Aculata. Entomological Society of 



London. 

 Smith, J. Historia Filicum. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Smithsonian Institution. Contributions to Knowledge. Vols. 20, 21. 



Smithsonian Report, lH7o. The Institution. 

 Smucker, I. Centennial History of Licking County, Ohio. The Author. 

 Sommerville, M. Engraved <:Jems. Jas. L. Claghorn. 

 Sowerby, J. De C, and E. Lear. Tortoises, Terrapins, and Turtles, I, V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Souverbie, Dr. Description d'espfeces nouvelle de 1' Archipel Caledonien. 



'l"he Author. 

 Spencer, H. Descriptive Sociology. Div. I., Nos. 3, 4, 5. Conarroe 



Fund. 

 Spinzig. C. Cholera. 'I'he Author. 



Spry, W. J. J. The Cruise of the '• Challenger." Conarroe Fund. 

 Squier, Geo. Peru ; incidents of travel and exploration in the land of the 



Incas. The Conarroe Fund. 

 Stearns, R. E. C. Remarks on the death of Col. Ezekiel Jewett and Dr. P. 



P. Carpenter. The Author. 

 Steiner, L. H. Am I my brother's keeper? The Author. 

 Stevens, E. '1'. Jottings on some of the objects of interest in the Stone- 



henge excursion, Thursday. Aug. 24. 1876. The Author. 

 Strebel, H. Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Fauna Mexikanischer Land- und 



SUsswasser-Conchylien. II. Th. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Streets, T. H. Contributions to the Natural History of the Hawaiian and 



Fanning Islands and Lower California. The Author. 

 Summer's Botany. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 



Swan, Jos. Illustrations of the Comparative Anatomy of the Nervous Sys- 

 tem. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Tasmania. Statistics and Gouncil Journal. E. 0. Nowell. 

 House of Assembly Journals, and map of. H. M. Hull. 

 Another map of. W. Moore. 



Chart of Water-Works, Hobart Town. A. Randall. 

 Charts of Hobart Town and Launceston. Messrs. Walch & Son. 

 Another chart of Launceston. S. F. Dibbs. 

 Photographs of Public Buildings. Corporation of Launceston. 




382 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Tate, R., and J. F. Blake. The Yorkshire Lias. I. T. Williamson Fund. 

 Teixeira de Aragao, A. C. DescripQao geral e historica das moedas cun- 



hadas em nonie dos Eeis, Regentes e Governadores de Portugal. 



Laurenco Malheiro. 

 Theophastri de Historia Plantarum, 1644. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 

 Thielens. A. Description de la Collection de la Marquise Faulucci. I. Y. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Thomas, T. G. A Case of Abdominal Pregnancy treated by Laparotomy. 



The Prophylactic Treatment of Placenta prsevia. The Author. 

 Thomson, C. G. Opuscula Eutomologica. Fas. .5, 6. 7. I. Y. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Hynienoptera Scandinavise. Tome lY. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Thornton's Botany. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 

 Titford's Hortus Botanicns Americanus. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 

 Tomes, C. S. A Manual of Dental Anatomy, Human and Comparative. 



Conarroe Fund. 

 Tommasi, D. Ricerche fisico-chemische sui diffirenti stati allotropici dell' 



idrogeno. The Author. 

 Les Bateaux Henii-plongeurs. The Author. 

 Torlonia. A. The Draining of Lake Fucino. The Author. 

 Torrey and Gray's Flora of North America. Yol. I., Pts. 3, 4; Yol. H., 



Pts. 1-4. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 

 Trafford, F. W. C. Amphiorama. ou la Yue du Monde. The Author. 

 Trautschold, H. Erganzung der Fauna des russischeu Jura. The Author. 

 Trumbull, J. H.. and Asa Gray. Notes ou the History of Helianthus tube- 



rosus. The Authors. 

 Trumpp, E. Niinak, der Stifter der Sikh-Religion. Royal Academy of 



Sciences of .Munich. 

 Trustees of S. African Museum. OfiBcial Reports, 18.57-75. H. C. 



Coates. 

 Tschamer. A. Zur Pathogenese des Keuchhustens. The Author. 

 Turner's Elements of Chemistry. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 

 Turner. W. Lectures on the Comparative Anatomy of the Placenta. 1. Y. 



AYilliamson Fund. 

 Tyge Brahe's Meteorologiske Dagbog. Royal Academy of Copenhagen. 

 United States Commission of P'ish and Fi-sheries. Part III. Report for 



1873-4, and 1874-5. The Commissioner. 

 United States Entomological Commission. Bulletin, Nos. 1, 2. Depart- 

 ment of the Interior. 

 U. S. Geological Survev of the Territories. Miscellaneous publications, 



Nos. •/. 4. 7. 8. Bulletin No. 4, 2d Series II., 4 ; III. 1-4. 

 Ninth Annual Report, 1875. 



Contributions to North American Ethnology. Department of the In- 

 terior. 

 L'nited States Life-Saving Service. Annual Report, 1876. Treasury De- 

 partment. 

 U. S. National Museum. Bulletin. Nos. 7. 8, 9. Department of Interior. 

 Untersuchungen der Deutschen Meere in Kiel. Jahresbericht 1. 2, 3. 



I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Yaluation of Property, Hobart Town and Launcetowu. Tasmanian House 



of Assembly. 

 Yan Benneden. J. A. Repertorium Annuum Literaturie Botanicae. Tome I. 



I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Yan Beneden, P. J. Faune Littorale de Belgique, Cetaces et Turbellari^s. 



Rathniell Wilson. 

 Manifestation en Ihonueur de van Beneden, P. J. The Committee. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 383 



Van Beneden et Gcrvais, MM. Osteograpliie rles C^taces Yivauts ct Fos- 



siles. Text and Plates, Livr. 14. Wilson Fund. 

 Van Yollenhoven, S. C. Snellen. FinacogTaphia. Pts. 4& 5, Afl. 5. I. Y. 



AVilliamson Fund. 

 Yaughan, Y. C. Notes on the Osteology and IMyology of the Domestic 



Fowl. Conarroe Fund. 

 Yennor, H. G. Our Birds of Prey. Wilson Fund. 



Yidal y Soler, S. Memoria Sobra les .Montes de Filipinas. The Author. 

 Yilla, A., et G. G. Lo Studio degli Insetti in Lombardo. Gita Geologica 



sugli Appennini Centrali. 

 Yirey's Philosophie de I'Histoire Naturelle. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 

 Yogt, C. Recherehes sur les Animaux Inferieurs de la Mediterranee. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Waern, C. F. Minnesteckning ofver Augustin J^hrensvard. Royal 



Swedish Academy. 

 Walker, E. Terrestrial and Cosmical Magnetism. Conarroe Fund. 

 Walker's Statistical Atlas. Conarroe Fund. 



"Weddell's Histoire Naturelle des Quinquinas. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 

 Weinkauff, H. C. Catalogue der im Europaischen Faunen-gebiet lebenden 



MeeresConchylien. I. Y. AVilliamson Fund. 

 Weismann. A. Zur Naturgeschichte der Daphiuden. I.-IY. I. Y. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 Wetherby, A. G. Review of the genus Tulotoma. The Author. 

 Whitfield, R. P. Preliminary Report on the Paleontology of the Black 



Hills. Department of Interior. 

 Wilder, B. G. On the Brain of Chimaera monstrosa. The Author. 

 AVilliamson, A. N. Observations on Nasal Catarrh. The Author. 

 Withering's Botanical Arrangement. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 

 Witter. F. M. Catalogue of Jowa MoUusca. The Author. 

 Wood. H. The Shores of Lake Aral. I. Y. AVilliamson Fund. 

 AVoodbridge, AA"". E. Report on the Mechanical Properties of Steel. The 



Author. 

 Woodward, H. B. The Geology of England and Wales. I. Y. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Wythe. J. H. The Microscopist. 3d ed. Conarroe Fund. 

 Yarrell. AV. A History of British Fishes. 3d and 4th eds., by Sir John 



Richardson. I. V. AVilliamson Fund. 

 Yarrow. H. C. Report upon the Collection of Terrestrial and Fluviatile 



Mollusca made in Colorado, Utah, etc., in 1872, '73, '74. The Author. 

 Zigno, A. de. Flora fossil is formationis volithicaj. Rathmell AA'ilson. 

 Zirkel, F. United States Geological Exploration of the Fortieth Parallel. 



Microscopical Petrography. AA'ar Department. 

 Zittel, K. A. Studien iiber fossile Spongien. The Author. 

 Zoological Record. A^ol. 12. AVilson Fund. 



JOURNALS AND PERIODICALS. 



Amsterdam. K. Akademie van AA^'etenschappen. Jaarbook, 1875. 



Yerslagen en Mededeelingen. Afd. Nat. 2e. Reeks, Tiende Deel. Afd. 



Let. 2e Reeks, A^ifde Deel. 

 Yerhandelingen. Zestiende Deel; Afd. Let., Tiende Deel. 

 Catalogus van de Boekerii. III. 1. 

 Processen-Yerbaal, 1875-70. 




384 ADDITIONS TO LIBRAHT. 



K. Zoologisch Genootschap " Natura Artis Magistcr." Nederlandsoh 

 Tijdschrift voor de Dierkunde. Jahrg. I., Afl. 6-12, Deel II.-IY. 

 The Society. 

 Angers. Societe Nationale d'Agriculture, Sciences et Arts. Memoires. 



T. 18me. The Society. 

 Ann Arbor Scientific Association. Constitution and By-Laws. The So- 

 ciety 

 Augsburg. Natui'historische "Verein. 24er Be-richt. The Society. 

 Auxerre. Societe des Sciences Historiques et Naturellesde I'Yonne. Bul- 

 letin, 30e vol. The Society. 

 Baltimore. Peabody Institute. 'I'enth Report. The Society. 

 Bamberg. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Eifter Bericht. The Society. 

 Belfast. Natural History and Philosophical Society, Proceedings, 1876. 



The Society. 

 Berlin. Archiv fur Naturgeschichte. 42er Jahr: 2es und 3es Heft 4 ; 34 

 Jahrg. 1 ; 39 Jahrg. 1 ; 6es Heft ; 40er Jahrg. ; 5es Heft 6 ; 42er 

 Jahrg. 2es : 43er Jahrg. 2es Heft. The Editor. 

 Botanischer Jahresbericht, 1875. ler Halfband. I. V. "Williamson 



Fund. 

 Deutsche Geologische Gesellschaft. Zeitschrift, XXYIII. 3 ; XXIX. 



2. The Society. 

 Gesellschaft Naturforschender Freunde. Sitzungsberichte,vl876. The 



Society. 

 K. P. Akademie der Wissenschafteu. Monatsbericht, Aug. 1876; July, 



1877. The Society. 

 Entomologische Zeitschrift. 20er Jahrg, 2es Heft, 21er Jahrg. 1, 



The Editor. 

 Der Naturforscher, X. Jahrg., 2-32. The Editor. 

 Yerein zur Befiirderung des Gartenbaues in den K. P. Staaten fiir 

 Gartnerei und Pflanzenkunde. Monatsbericht, 19er Jahrg. The 

 Society. 

 Bloomington. Illinois Museum of Natural History. Bulletin No. 1. S. A. 



Forbes. 

 Bologna. Accademia delle Scienze del' Istitnto. Eendiconto, 1875-76. 



Memorie. Serie 3. YI. 1-4. The Society. 

 Bonn. Archiv fiir Mikroskopische Anatomie. XIII. 3, 4 ; XIY. 1, 2. 

 I. Y. "Williamson Fund. 

 Naturhistoriche Yerein der preussischen Rheinlande und "Westphalens. 

 Yerhandlungen, 32er Jahrg. 2e Halfte ; 33er Jahrg. le Halfte. The 

 Society. 

 Bordeaux. Soci4l6 des Sciences Physiques et Naturelles. Bulletin, 2e 

 Serie. t. I. 3. The Society. 

 Soci6t6 Linneenne. Actes, 4me Serie ; t. XVIII. 4; t. XIX. 1. The 

 Society. 

 Boston. American Academy of Arts and Sciences, Proceedings. New 

 Series, lY. 'J'he Society. 

 American Naturalist. Jan. to Nov. 1877. The Editor. 

 Science Ob.'^ervor. I. 1, 4. The Editor. 



Society of Natural History. Proceedings, XV III. p. 337 ; XIX. 158. 

 Memoirs. II.. Ft. 4, No. 5. The Society. 

 Braunschweig. Archiv fiir Anthropologic. 3er Bd. 3, 4 ; 9er Bd. 4 ; lOer 



Bd. 3. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Bremen. Naturwissenschaftliche Verein. Abhandlungen. Y. 2. The So- 

 ciety. 

 Schwcdische Heilgymnastische Institut. XX. Jahresbericht. The 

 Director. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 385 



Bristol. Naturalists' Society. Proceed! ng-s. III. 1-9; lY. 1.2; V.; YI. 

 1,2; YII. 1, 2. N. S., I. 1-3; 1868-76. By-Laws, etc. The So- 

 ciety. 

 Bruxelles. Soci^le Beige de ^licroscopie. Bulletin, I.; j^unales, II.; 

 Procfes Yerbal, Nos. 4-6. The Society. 

 Society Eiitomologique de Belgique. Coinpte-Rendu. S^rie II., 31- 



42. The Society. 

 Societe Malacolojrique de Belgique. Anuales, t. 19me. The Society. 

 Buffalo. Society of Natural History. Bulletin, III. 4. 'i'he Society. 

 Caen. Acadeniie National. Memoires, 1876. The Society. 

 Calcutta. Stray Feathers. Vols. 1-3; vol. 4, pt. 1. I. Y. AVillianison 



Fund. 

 Cambridge. Museum of Comparative Zoology. ^Memoirs, Yol. I. 

 Annual Report. 1876. The Director. 



Nuttall Ornithological Club. Bulletin II. 1-4. The Society. 

 Peabody Museum of American Archteology and Ethnology. Tenth 



Annual Report. The Trustees. 

 Psyche. II. 83-38. The Editor. 

 Cap Rouge. Naturaliste Canadien. Nov. 1876 to Oct. 1877. The Editor. 

 Caracas. Gaceta Cientifica de Yenezuela. I. .0-9. The Editor. 

 Cassel. Malakozooloaische Blatter. XXIII. Bg. 10; XXIY. 9. I. Y. 



"Williamson Fund. 

 Catania. Accadeniia Gioenia di Scienzi Naturali. Atti, serie 3a, t. X. 



The Society. 

 Cherbourg. Societe Nationale des Sciences Naturelles. Compte-Rendu de 



la Seance de 30 Dec. 1876. The Society. 

 Christiania. Nvt Matrazin for Naturvidenskaberne. 21e B., 3e Heft-22e 

 B.. 4e Heft. The Editor. 

 Yidenskab Selskab. Forhandlinger. 187.5. The Society. 

 Cincinnati. Quarterly Journal of Science. Yds. 1, 2. Cincinnati Society 

 of Natural History. 

 Society of Natural History. Proceedings, 1876, 1. The Society. 

 Copenhasren. K. D. Yidenskaberne Selskab. Oversigt, 1875, Nos. 2, 3; 

 1876, No. 1; 1877, No. 1. 

 Memoires. 5me Serie ; Classe des Sciences. XI. 3, 4. The Society. 

 Societe Royale des Antiquaires du Nord. Memoires, 1875-76. 

 Tillaeg til Aarbger, 1874-75. The Society. 



Yidenskabelige Meddelelser fra Naturhistorisk Forening, 1876. The 

 Editor. 

 Danzig. Naturforschende Gosellschaft. Schriften, Neue Folge, 2en B., 



2es Heft; 4en B., les Heft. The Society. 

 Darmstadt. Yerein fur Erdkunde. Notizblatt, III. Folge, 1.5er Band, Nr. 



169-180. The Society. 

 Dorpat. Naturforscher-Geseilschaft. Sitzunirsbericlite, lY. 2. 



Archiv fur die Naturkuiide Liv-. p]hst- uiul Kurlands. le Serie. 3er B., 

 ler Lief. ; 5er B., 2e-4e Lief; 7er B., .5e Lief., und Meteorologische 

 Beobachtnngen. le-3e Lief. ; 8er Band, Heft 2. li.e Serie, Biol.- 

 Naturb., B. 7, Lief. 3. The Society. 

 Dresden. Afrikanische Gesellschaft. Correspondenzblatt, No. 21. The 

 Society. 

 K. Leopoldinisch-Carolinische Akademie der Naturforscher. Nova 

 Acta. X. 1, 2 ; XL 1, 2 ; XXXIY., XXX VIII. Leopoldina, 1-6, 

 lies Heft. The Society. 

 K. Sammburg Tiir Kunst uud AVissenschaft. Bericht, 1874-75. I. Y. 

 Williamson Fund. 




386 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



K. Zoologiscben Museum. Mitheilungen. 2es Heft. The Society. 

 Natnrwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft. Sitzungsberichte, 1876 ; Juli, 

 1877. The Society. 

 Drontheim. K. Norske Yidenskab Selskab. Skrifter, Ottende Bind. 3e 

 Hefte. 

 Fortegnelse i Aaret, 187.5. The Society. 

 Dublin. Royal Dublin Society. Journal. Nos. 42-44. The Society. 



Royal Irish Academy. Transactions, XXVI. .5. The Society. 

 Ediuburo-. Botanical Society. Transactions and Proceedings, XII. 3. 

 The Society. 

 Geological Society. Transactions, III. 1. The Society. 

 Royal Societ}-. Proceedings, Session 187.5-76. 

 Transactions. Vol. 27, Pt. 4. The Society. 

 Erlangpu. Physikaliscb-medicinische Societat. Sitzungsbericht, 8 Heft. 



The Society. 

 Frankfurt, A. M. Aerztlicli Yerein. Jahresbericht, XIX. und XX. Jahrg. 

 The Society. 

 Deutsche malakozoologische Gesellschaft. Jahrblicher, 4er Jahrg. 2. 

 Nachrichtsblatt. 9er Jahrag. 4-8. 'I'he Society. 

 Der Zoologisclie Garten. 1876, Nos. 7-12. The Publishing Society. 

 Senckenbergische Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Bericht, 1875-76. 

 Abhandlungen, XL, les Heft. The Society. 

 Freiburg i. B. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Bericht, YII. 1. The So- 

 ciety. 

 Geneva. Bibliotheque Universelle et Revue Suisse, 1816-1854. 116 

 volumes. I. V. ^Yilliamson Fund. 

 Schweizerische Palaontologische Gesellschaft. Abhandlungen, Yol. 3. 



1. Y. AYilliamson Fund. 



Soci6te de Physique et d'Histoire Naturelle. IVIemoires, XXIY. 2. 



The Society. 

 Giessen. Oberhessische Gesellschaft fur Natur- und Heilkunde. 15er und 



16er Bericht. The Society. 

 Glasgow. Philosophical Society. Proceedings, X. 2. 'I'he Society. 

 Gottingen. K. Gesellschaft der AVissenschaften und der Georg-Augusts- 



Universitat. Nachrichten, 1876. 'I'he Societ)'. 

 Graz. Yerein der Aerzte in Steiermark. Sitzungs-Bericht, XI. -XIII. Ye- 



reinsjahre. The Society. 

 Halifax. Nova Scotian Institute of Natural Science. Proceedings and 



Transactions, lY. 2. The Society. 

 Halle. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Abhandlungen, 13en B., 2es Heft. 



Bericht, 1875. 'I'he Society. 

 Hamburg-Altona. Naturwissenschaftliche Yerein. Abhandlungen, 1876. 



The Society. 

 Hanover. Botanical Gazette, II. 4-12. The Fiditor. 

 Harlem. Soci^te Hollandaise des Sciences. Archives N^erlandaises, XI. 



2, 3. Notice Historique, etc., 1876. The Society. 

 Hartford. Fanciers' Journal, lY. 3-11. The p]ditor. 



Innsbruck. Ferdinandeum flir Tirol und Yorarlberg. Zeitschrift, 3e Folge, 

 20es Heft. The Society. 



Jena. Medicinisch-naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft. Jenaische Zeit- 

 scrift, Bds. 1., lY., 2. 3. 4; Bds. Y., YII.; X. 4 und 2er Sup. 

 Heft ; XI. 1, 2. The Society. 



Kiirnten. Naturhistorische Landes-Museum. Jahrbuch, lies und r2es Heft. 

 The Museum. 



Kansas City. Western Review of Science and Industry. March to Octo- 

 ber, 1877. The Editor. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 38T 



Konigsbera:. Phvsikalisch okononiische Gesellschaft. 1875. le und 2e 



Abtb. Tlie Society. 

 Lausanne. Societe Vamloise des Sciences Naturelles. Bulletin, 2c Serie, 



Vol. XIV.. Nos. 77, 78. The Society. 

 Leeds. Geoloo-ical and Polytechnic Society of the West Riding of York- 

 shire. Reports of the Proceedings, 1840, 1851, 1854-5. The So- 

 ciety. 



Literary and Philosophical Society. Annual Reports, 1875-76 ; 1876- 

 77. The Society. 

 Leipzig. Archiv flir Anatomie, Physiologie und wissenschaftliche Mede- 

 cin. 1873, No. 2 ; 1876. 4-6. 'Abth., 1877, 1, 2. 3. Physiologische, 

 1877, 1, 2. 3. Anatomische. 1877, 1, 2, 3. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Furstlich Jablonowski' sche Gesellschaft. Preisschriften, XIX. und 

 XX. The Society. 



Jahrbucher fur wissenschaftliche Botanik. X. 4 ; XI. 1. I.V.Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 



Jahresberichte liber die Fortschritte der Anatomie und Physiologie. 

 Hofmann und Schwalbe. Bds. 1-4. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Journal fiir Ornithologie. 24er Jahrg. 3-25er ; Jahrg. 2. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 



Kosmos. ler Jahrg , Nos. 1-7. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Morphologische Jahrbuch. II. 3; III. 4. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Naturforschende (Jesellschaft. Sitzungsberichte. 2er Jahrg., No. 1 to 

 1877, No. 1. The Society. 



Zeitschrift fur Anatomie und Entwickelungsgeschichte. II. 3-6. I. V. 

 Williamson Fund 



Zeitschrift fiir Krystallographie und Mineralogie. I. 1-6. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 



Zeitschrift fiir wissenschaftliche Zoologie. XXVII. 4 ; XXIX. 1, 2, 3. 

 I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Leyden. Bidragen tot de Dierkunde. 8e Afl. Rathmell Wilson. 

 Lille. Society des Sciences de I'Agriculture et des Arts. Memoires, 1874. 



The Society. 

 Liverpool. Literary and Philosophical Society. Proceedings. No. 30. 



'J'he Society. 

 London. Annals and Masazine of Natural History. Dec. 1876, Nov. 

 1877. I. V. Williau^son Fund. 



Astronomical Register. Jan. to Oct. 1877. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



British Association for the Advancement of Science. Report, 1875, 

 1876. I. V. William.son Fund. 



Curtis's Botanical Magazine. Nos. 1077-1088. I. V. Williamson 

 Fund. 



Entomological Society. Transactions, 1876. The Society. 



Gardeners' Chronicle. Nos. 151-202. The Editor. 



Same. Vols. 1-32. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Geological Magazine. Nov. 1876 to Oct. 1877. I. V. Williamson 

 Fund. 



Geological Society. Quarterly Journal, Nos. 128-131. List. 1876. 

 The Societv. 



Grevillea. Vols. 3, 4. The Editor. 



Hardwicke's Science Gossip. 143-1.54. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Hooker's Journal of Botanv. I.-IV. Heirs of Dr. Jos. Carson. 



Ibis. Oct. 1876; July, 1877. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 



Same. L-V., and n. s. I. 2. 3, 4. Rathmell Wilson. 



Journal of Anatomy and Physiology. X. 1 — XII. 1. I. V. William- 

 son Fund. 




388 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Journal of Botany, British and Foreign. Nov. 1876 to Oct. 1877. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 London. Edinburgh, and Dublin Philosophical Magazine and Journal 



of Science. 5th Series. Dec. 1876 to Nov. 1877. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Mineralogical Magazine. No. 2. The Editor. 



Monthly ilicroscopical Journal. Dec. 1876 to Oct. 1877. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 Nature. Nos. 369-420. The ?:ditor. 

 Notes and Queries. Nov. 1876 to Oct. 1877. The Editor. 

 Palaioiitological Society's publications. Yol. XXX. Wilson Fund. 

 Popular Science Review. January, April, July, October, 1877. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Quarterly Journal of Conchology. Nos. 8, 9, 10. The Editor. 

 Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science. January, April, July, 



October. 1877. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Quarterly Journal of Science. 1864-1876, and January to July, 1877. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Royal Asiatic Society of (ireat Britain and Ireland. Journal. IX. 1, 2. 



The Society. 

 Royal Geographical Society. Proceedings, XXI. 1-6. 

 Journal. Vols. 4.o. 46. 'J'he Society. 



Royal Horticultural Society. Journal, IV. 16. The Society. 

 Royal Institution of Great Britain and Ireland. Proceedings, VIII. 



1, 2. The Society. 

 Royal Society. Proceedings, XXII. 151 ; XXV. 175. 

 Philosophical Transactions. 1874, Pt. 1 ; 1876, Pt. 1. Lists, etc. 



'I'he Society. 

 Society of Arts. Journal, vol. 24. The Society. 



'J'rubner's Literary Record. Nos. 114, 115; 120-128. The Pub- 

 lishers. 

 Zoologist. Aug. 1864 to Oct. 1877. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Zoological Society. 'I'ransactions, IX. 10-X. 2 

 Proceedings, 1876. Pt. 4; 1877, 1, 2. The Society. 

 liOndon, Ca. Canadian Entomologist. VIII. 11-TX. 10. The Editor. 

 Louvaiii. Universite Catholique. Annuaire, 1877, and fifteen theses. 



The University. 

 Madison. AVLsconsin Academy of Sciences, Arts, and Letters. Transac- 

 tions, II. and III. The Society. 

 Manchester. Literary and Philosophical Society. Proceedings, vols. 13, 



14, 15. 

 Memoirs. 3d ser., vol. 5. The Society. 

 Mauritius. Royal Society of Arts and Sciences. Transactions, n. s., vol. 9. 



The Society. 

 Metz. Academic. Menioires. 56e annee. The Society. 

 Mexico. Miiseo Nacional. Anales. I. 1. The Museum. 

 Milan. Reale Istituto Lombard© di Scieuze e Lettre. Rendiconti, serie 2; 



VII. 17-XVIlI. 20. 

 Memorie, Classe di Scienze ^lathematiche e Naturali. XIII. 2. The 



Society. 

 Mens. Societe des Sciences des Arts et des Lettres du Hainaut. IVe 



S6rie, T. ler. 

 Montpellier. Academie des Sciences et Lettres. Memoires de la Section 



des Sciences. VIII. 3, 4. The Society. 

 Montreal. Canadian Antiquarian. V. 3, July. October. The Editor. 

 Canadian Naturalist. N. S. VIII. 3-5. The Editor. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 389 



ISIunster Westfiilische Provinzial-Verein fur Wissenschaft unci Ktinst. 



Jahresbericlit der Zoologischen Section. 1876-77. The Society. 

 Munich. K. B. Akademie der Wi.>senschaften. Sitzung-sbericlite. 1875, 

 III.-1877, I. Matheniatiscli-pliysikalisclien Classe. 

 Abhandlungen. Mathematisch-physikulisclien (Jlasse. 12en Bandes le 

 und 2e, Abth. 3e. Philosopisch-physikalischeu Classe. 13cn 

 Bandes, 3e Abth., 14er B., le Abth. Historisclien Classe. ISen 

 Bandes, 1 Abth. 2e. The Society. 

 K. vSternwarte bei MUnchen. Annalen, XXT. B. 

 Beobachtungen. 37 Jahrg. The Observatory. 

 Nancy. Soci6t6 des Sciences. Bulletin, S^rie II., T. 2, Fasc. 5. The So- 

 ciety. 

 Naples. Reale Istituto d'Incorraggiamento alle Scienze Xaturali. Echono- 

 miche c Technologiche. 2a serie, XII., XIII. De' Lavori, 1876. 

 The Society. 

 Neubrandenburg. Yerein der Froundeder Naturgeschichte in Meklenberg. 



Archiv. 30er Jahrg. The Society. 

 Neuchatel. Societe des Sciences Naturelles. Bulletin, X. 3. The So- 

 ciety. 

 New-Castle-upon-Tyne. Natural History Transactions of Northumberland 



and Durham. V. 3. The Society. 

 New Haven. American Journal of Science and Arts. Dec. 1876 to Nov. 



1877. The Editor. 

 New York. American Chemist. YII. 3-9. The Editor. 



American Geographical Society. Bulletin, 1876-77 ; 2, 3. The So- 

 ciety. 

 American Journal of Microscopy. I., II. I-ll. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 American Library Journal. I. 1-1 1. 2. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Annual of Science and Industry, 1876. I. V. AVilliamson Fund. 

 New York Medical Journal. Dec. 1876 to Nov. 1877. 'I'he Editor. 

 Popular Science Monthly. Jan. to Dec. 1877; Supplements, 1-7. 



The Editor. 

 Sanatarian, Dec. 1876. The ICditor. 

 Science Observer. I. 2. 'I'he Editor. 



Torrey Botanical Club. Bulletin, VI. 24-34. The Society. 

 Orleans. Societe d'Agriculture, Sciences, et Arts. M6moires, XVIII. 3. 



The Society. 

 Palermo. Societa di Scienze Natural! ed Economiche. Bollettino, No. 3, 



1877. The Society. 

 Paris. Annales des Mines. 7me S6rie, X. 4; XI. 3. Minister of Public 

 Works, France. 

 Same. 4me, Serie IX. et X. ; 6me Serie. XVIII. 5, 6 ; XIX. 1, 2, 3 ; 



7me, Serie III. 1, 2; VIII. 4. Same through Wni. S. Vaux. 

 Annales des Sciences Geologique. T. 8me. The Editor. 

 Annales des Sciences Naturelles. Botanique. 6me Serie, III., Nos. 



1-3. Zoologique, 6me Serie. IV.-V. 4, o. 

 Archives de Zoologie experimentale et generale. Y. 2 ; VI. 1. I. Y. 



AV'illiamson Fund. 

 Journal de Conchyliologie. 3e S6rie, XYI. 3-XYII. 3. 

 Journal de Micographie. Ire Aiin6e, No. 1. Tiie Editor. 

 Journal de Zoologie. Y. 6-YI. 3. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Revue de Geologic. XII., XIII. The Editor. 

 Kevue Mensuel de M4d6cin et de Chirurgie. 1. 1. The Editor. 

 Revue Scientifique de la France et de I'Etranger. 2e S6rie, 6rae An- 

 n6e, No. 22 ; 7me Ann§e, No. 19. The Editor. 




390 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Societe d'Acclimatation. Bulletin. 3e Serie, III 4-IY. 9. The Society. 

 Societe Botanique de Fra(ice. Bulletin. T. 21me. pp. 241 et seq. Ses- 

 sion d'Angrer, 1875, T. 23me ; Rev. Bibl. A. B. C. D. E. ; T. 2-irae 

 1 : Rev. Bibl. A. ; Comptes Rendus, 2, 3, 4. The Society. 

 Societe Geologique de France. Bulletin, 3me S^rie IV.' et Y. 1-6. 



The Society. 

 Soci6t6 Zoologique de France. Bulletin, le Annee; 2e-2e Aunee ; 2e 

 Partie. The Society. 

 Philadelphia. Academy of Natural Sciences. Proceedings, 1877; III. 

 Journal. YIII. 2, 3. The Publication Committee. 

 American Entomological Society. 'J'ransactions, vol. 5, pp. 177 et seq. 



The Society. 

 American Journal of Pharmacy. Dec. 1876 to Nov. 1877. The 



Editor. 

 American Pharmaceutical Association. Proceedings, Twenty-fourth 



Annual Meeting. The Society. 

 American Journal of the Medical Sciences. Jan. to Oct. 1877. The 



Editor. 

 American Philosophical Society. Proceedings. Yols. XY., XYI., Nos. 



98. 99. 

 Dental Cosmos. Dec. 1876 to Nov. 1877. The Editor. 

 Franklin Institute Journal. Dec. 1876 to Nov. 1877. The Society. 

 Gardener"s Monthly. Dec. 1876 to Nov. 1877. The .Editor. 

 Medical News and Library. Nos. 408-418. The Editor. 

 Penn Monthly. Dec. 1876 to Nov. 1877. The Editor. 

 Geological Society of Pennsylvania. Transactions, I. 1. J. S. Phil- 

 lips. 

 International Medical Congress. Transactions, 1877. The Editor. 

 The Road. Yols, 1, 2. The Editor. 



Zoological Society. Fourth and Fifth Annual Reports. The Society. 

 Prag. K. B. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. Sitzuugsberichte, 1875. 1876. 

 Jahresbericht, 12 Mai, 1876. 

 Abhandlungen, 6e Folge, 8er Bd. The Society. 

 Regensburg. Flora. 34er Jahrg. The Publishing Society. 



Zoologische-mineralogischer Yerein. Correspondenzblatt. Jahrg. 8, 

 9, 10. 13, 29. The Society. 

 Rio de Janeiro. Brazilian Biographical Annual. Yols. 1-3. The Editor. 

 Rome. R. Accademia dei Lincei. Transunti. I. 1-7. The Society. 

 Rotterdam. Bataafsch Genootschap der Proefonder vindelike Wijsbe'geerte. 



Nieuwe Verhandlungen, 2e Reeks, 2e Deel, 2e Stuk. The Society. 

 St. Petersburg. Academie Imperiale des Sciences. M6moires. 7e Serie, 

 XII. 11, 12 ; XIII. 2-8 ; XYI. 1-3. 

 Bulletin. T. XXII. 1-XXIII. 2. The Society. 



Physikalische Central-Observatorium. Annalcn, 1875. The Obser- 

 vatory. 

 Salem. American Association for the Advancement of Science. Proceed- 

 ings, 25th meeting. The Association. 

 Essex Institute, liutletin. YIII. 3-IX. 6. The Society. 

 San Francisco. California State Geological Society. Articles of Incorpo- 

 ration and By-Laws. 1876. The Society. 

 'S Gravenhage. Nederlandsche Dierkundige Yereeniging. Tijdschrift, 



le Deel, Jahrg. 1874. 3 und 4 Afi. ; 2e Deel. 1-4 Afl. The Society. 

 Stettin. Entomologische Yerein. Zeitung. 37er Jahrg. The Society. 

 Stockholm. K. S. Vetenskaps-Akadcmien. Handlingar. 1874-75, 13e B., 

 14e B., la Haftet. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 391 



Bihang, 3e B, 2e Hiifte. 

 Ofvcrsigt, 33 Argangen. The Society. 

 Stuttgart. Neues Jahrbuch flir Mineralogie, Geologie uiid Pala?ontologie, 

 1876. 4es 1877, 6es Heft. 

 Wurttembergischc naturwisseiischaftliche Jalircsheft. 33er Jahrg., 

 1-3 Heft. The Editor. 

 Sydney. Royal Society of New South Wales. Transactions and Proceed- 

 ings, vol. 9. Rules and List of Members, 1877. The Society. 

 Tasmania. Royal Society. Papers, Proceedings, and Report, 1875. The 



Society. 

 Toronto. Canadian Journal of Science, Literature, and History. XV. 4-7 

 The Editor. 

 Entomological Society of the Province of Ontario. Report, 1876. 

 The Society. 

 Toulouse. Societ'e d'Histoire Naturelle. Bulletin, 1875-76. The Society. 

 Trieste. Society Adriatica di Scienze Naturali. BoUettino, No. 3. An- 



nata II., Vol. 3, No. 1. The Society. 

 L'psal. K. Vetenskaps Societeten. Nova Acta. Ser. 3, X. 1. The So- 

 ciety. 

 Observatoire de I'Universite. Bulletin Meteorologique. Vol. VII. 

 The Observatory. 

 Venezia. Reale Istituto Veneto di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti. Serie 5a, 



T. 1. Disp. 8, 9. The Society. 

 Vienna. Anthropologische Gesellschaft. Mittheilungen. VI. 5-10 ; 

 VIL 1-6. The Society. 

 K. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Mathem.-Naturw. Classe. Denk- 



schieften, 36er Bd. 

 Sitzungsberichte, 71 Bd.. 3e Abth. 3-5 Heft; 72 Bd. le-3e Abth. ; 



73 Bd. 2e Abth. 1-3 Heft. The Society. 

 K. K. Geologische Reichsanstalt Jahrbuch. XXVI. 3-XXVII. 2. 

 Verhandluno-en, 1874, Nos. 14, 15; 1876, No. 11; 1877, No. 10. 

 Abhandlungen. VIL, Bd. 4 ; IX. Bd. The Society. 

 K. K. Zoologisch-botanische Gesellschaft. Verhandlungen, Bd. 7er, 



26er, und Jahrg. 1858. The Society. 

 Embryologische Institut der Iv. K. Universitat. Mittheilungen, 1 Heft. 



The Society. 

 Obst-und Garten-Zeitung, 2er Jahrg., lOes Heft. The Editor. 

 Oesterreische Botauisclie Zeitschrift. XXVII. 1. The Editor. 

 Ornithologische Verein. Mittheilungen. I. 1, 2. The Society. 

 Verein zur Verbreitunsr Naturwissenschaftlicher Kenntnisse. Schriften, 

 B. 11, 12. 15, 17. The Society. 

 Washington. Field and Forest, Feb. 1877. The Editor. 

 Wellington. New Zealand Institute, Transactions and Proceedings. Vol. 9. 



The Society. 

 Worcester. American Antiquarian Society. Proceedings, Nos. 67-69. 

 The Society. 

 Society of Antiquity. Proceedings, No. 1. The Society. 

 Wurzburg. Botanischen Institut. Arbeiten. ler Band. The Society. 



Physikalisch-medicinische Gesellschaft. Al)handlungen, XL 1, 2. The 



Society. 

 Zoologisch-Zootomische Institut. Arbeiten, II. 1-IV. 1. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 Yokohama. Asiatic Society of Japan. Transactions. Vol. 4. The So- 

 ciety. 

 Zurich. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Vierteljahresschrift, 19er und 20er 

 Jahrg. The Society. 





INDEX TO GENERA. 



393 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



1877. 



Abramis 91 



Acautliarcus GO, 93, 98 



Acanthocystis 291 



Acantlioloma 140 



Acanthospermum 107 



Acer 113, 114, 120, 129 



Achirus 205 



Acidaspis 138, 139, 140 



Acipenser 87, 97, 216, 231 



Acouitum 274 



Aconuis 91, 98 



Acrocheilus 90, 98 



Actinopbiys 261. 291 



Adinia 92,98 



^hirichthys 216 



^tobatis 216 



Agaleua 312 



Agosia 91,98 



Agrostis 108 



Ailaatus 287 



Alans 260 



Albula 215 



Alburuellns 91, 98 j 



Albuiuops 91, 98 i 



Alburnus 91 



Algansca 91, 99 



Algonia 91, 99 



Alnus 115,117 



Alopecurus 108 



Alosa 215 



Alternantbera 108 



Alutcra 204 



Alvariiis 49, 56, 92, 99 



Al vordius.43, 49, 50, 54, 55, 56, 92, 99 



Alyssum 106 



Amarantus 108 



Amblodon 85, 87, 96, 99 , 



Ambloplites 44, 57, 60, 93, 99 | 



Amblyopsis 86, 88, 99 [ 



Ameiurus 87, 99 i 



Amia 46, 83, 99 



Amiurus 45 



Ammoccetes 92 



Amccba 261, 288 



Amorphia 118 



Ampelopsis 121 | 



26 



I Ampbiodon 85, 96, 99 



Ancbippns 314 



' Ancbuia 22, 23 



Andropogoii 109 



Angnilla 216 



Anguillula 197 



Ankerite 290 



Anodon 202, 259 



Auoplophrya 197, 259, 260 



Anthemis 107 



Antbonyga 25 



Antbracotberium 153 



Antirrbinum 107 



Apargia 107 



Apeltes 65, 88, 99 



Apbgedoderus 44, 60, 88, 99 



Apbis 145 



Apbrodiua 23 



Aplesion 56, 86, 99 



Aplitcs 86,96, 99 



Aplocentrus 77. 85, 99 



Aplodinotus 85, 96, 99 



Apocoi>e 94, 95, 99 



Apomotis 44, 59, 77, 85, 99 



Area 22 



Arcella 261, 263, 290, 294, 307 



Arcboplites 93, 99 



Arcbosargus 210 



Arfvedsouite 9 



Argyrea 88, 99 



Argyreus 89, 97, 99 



Argyriosus 208' 



Argyrosomus 45, 89, 99 



Ariopsis 216' 



Aristida 300 



Arlina 92, 96, 99 



Artemisia 107, 304 



Artbrodesmiis 264 



Artbromitis 147 



Arvieola 273 



Asapbiis 139 



Aspidogaster 260 



Asproperca 92, 96, 99 



Astaticbtbys 48, 95, 96, 99 



Astragalus 274 



Astropbyllite 9. 




394 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



Astroscopus 207 



Astyanax 90, 99, 189 



Atherina 88,213 



Atherinopsis 90, 99 



Atractosieus 87, 97, 99 



Atriplex 108 



Baione 88, 99 



Bairdiella 210 



Balantidium 259 



Ballota 108 



Bainlnisina 288 



Baroda 22 



Bassaricyou 267 



Bassaris 267 



Batrachus 206 



Belnne 214 



Berchcmia 112 



Beta 108 



Betula 117, 126 



Bidens 107 



Bignonia 116 



Blennius 206 



Blcpliarichthys 208 



Blitum 108 



Bodiamis 85 



Boleichthys 43, 46, 54. 56, 92, 99 



Boleosoma. .43, 48, 55, 56, 88, 93, 



96, 99 



Bramocharax 180, 189 



Braiichiostoma 218 



Brassica 106 



Brevoortia 215 



Broussouetia 125 



Browallia 11 



Brytlus 77, 88, 99 



Biibalichthys 73, 82, 90, 99, 283 



Buchloe 300 



Calamodon 314, 315 



Calcorhynchus 220, 223 



Calendula 107 



Caliista 23 



Calliurus 77, 85, 94, 90, 99 



Calycera 107 



Cambariis 171 



Canipascus 294 



Camponotus 134 



Campostoma 45, 90, 99 



Canis 305 



Caran<?iis 208 



Carcharias 223, 231 



Cardita 22,23 



Carduus 107 



Carex 108 



Carpinus 120 



Carpiodes. .45, 71, 82, 87, 90, 97, 



99, 283 



Carya 116 



Castanea 116 



Castor 314 



Catonotns .89, 99 



Calostomus.45, 71, 80, 81, 84, 89, 



97, 100, 282 



Caria 314,315 



Ceanntluis 125 



Cecidomyia 260 



Celastrus 118 



Celtis 122 



Ceiitanrea 107 



Centrarchus. . .57, 60, 88, 93, 96, 100 



Centropristis 211 



Centiopyxis 294 



Ceiasus 121 



Ceratacaiitbus 204 



Ceiatichthys 91, 92, 100 



Ceratocephala 138, 139, 140 



Ceratocephalus 139 



Ceratodus 226, 231 



Ceratotoptera 216 



Ceraurus 138, 139, 140 



Cercaiia 201 



Cha-uobryttus ....44, 59, 94, 96, 100 



Cbivnopsetta 206 



Cbalcinopsis 180, 188 



Cbania 24 



Cbatoessus 09 



Cbeilonenuis 90, 97, 100 



Cbeiiomvs 314, 315 



Cbelifer ". 261 



Cbeuopodium 108 



CUeonda 92, 100 



Cbilichtbys 204 



Cbiloniouas 198 



Chilomycterus 203 



Clninara 219 



Cbirostoma . . .94, 175, 180, 187, 218 



Cblamydopbrys 262 



Cbcerojulis 207 



Chologaster 89, ] 00 



Clirosomus 71, 86, 100 



Cbvysantbemum 107 



Cbrj'semys 1 99 



Cicada 260 



Cicatrea 23 



Cimex 284 



Circe 22 



Cleome 106 



Cletbra 122 



Clinostomus 92, 100 



Cliola 78,91, 100 



Clodalus 86,96, 100 



Clupca 92,215 



Cocculus 284 



Coccus 1 45, 305 



Cochlognathus 90, 100 




INDEX TO GENERA. 



395 



Codoma 78, 91, 100 



C(ielni,feni}'s 315 



Coliscus 94,100 



Cnmptonia 12") 



Concli<)]ilitlurus 2o9 



Copehuidia 56, 59, 95, 100 



Coinus 116 



Corregiola 106 



Corvina 95 



Corylus 121 



Cottogaster 93, 94, 100 



Cottopsis 61, 89, 100 



Cottus 89 



Cratc-vgus 113 



Crepis' 107 



Cretocardia 23 



Croton 300 



Crvptodon 24 



Cucullfea 22 



Cyhiuni 208 



Cycieptns 81, 85, 100, 282 



Cvelotlivris 23 



Cyliiulrosteus 87, 100 



Cynibophora 24 



Cynopotamus 189 



Cynnscion 209 



Cyphodcria 262, 294 



Cvpiicardia 22 



Cvpriineria 22, 23 



CVpriiia 23, 139 



Cvprinella 78, 91, 100 



Cyprinodon 84, 100, 214 



Cy|>rinus 84, 88, 89, 97, 139 



Cvrtodaria 24 



Cyllierea 23 



Datura 108 



Decactylus 87, 100 



Diapliaiius 68 



Diaporthe 110,117 



Diatrvpe 112 



Dicelis 197 



Dicotyles 152 



Dicrauunis 139, 140 



Didvinopiium 289 



Difliugia 261, 262, 306, 321 



DinaiiKEba 288 



Dinectus 87, 100 



Dinenvrapha 149 



Dioiida 91, 100 



Dioplitcs 77, 86, 96, 100 



Diplesion 86, 100 



Diplesiuin 43, 50, 55, 56 



Diploconcha 22 



Discina 161 



Distoma 201 



Dorosnma 45, 69, 86, 100 



Doryphora 287 



Ecbalinm 107 



Echeneis 212 



Elacate 212 



Elpotris 178 



Elliops 87,97, 100 



Elops 215 



Enchytraeus 259 



Engraulis 215 



Enneacautluis 57, 59, 93, 100 



Enstatite 198 



Entosplieuus 93, 100 



Eoznon 20 



Epbinephelus 211 



Episema 45, 77, 78, 96, 100 



Eqiuis 152, 154 



Ericvmba 45. 94, 100 



Erimyzon 45, 81, 95, 100. 282 



Erineuius 95, 100 



Erioconia 304 



Erisvmum 105 



Eriti-ema 95. 100 



Esox 44,69, 87, 97 



Estrella 92, 96. 100 



Etheostoraa...43, 48, 51, 54, 56, 



85, 89, 93, 90, 100 



Eucalia 65, 95, 101 



Eucalyptus 149 



Eucentrarchus 94, 96, 101 



Euglypha 262, 294, 321 



Eugonipbodus 217 



Euianiia 181, 190 



Euphorbia 108 



Euphryne 39 



Eurystomus 87, 97, 101 



Eutychelithus 95, 101 



Exoccetus 214 



Exoglossum 84, 85, 89, 97, 101 



Fistulana 23 



Fistularia 205 



Formica 134, 145 



Fraukc'uia 106 



Fraxinus 113 



Fuudulus 44, 67, 84, 101, 214 



Galeus 223 



Gambusia 178, 180, 187 



Gasterosteus 65, 88 



Geraneuin 106 



Gila 89, 91, 101 



Girardinichthys 93, 96, 101 



Glanis 97 



Gleaitscliia 123 



Glossodon 84, 88, 96, 101 



Glossoplites 95, 96, 101 



Glottidia 160 



Glycimcris 24 



Gossypium 116 




396 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



Grammotodon 23 



Gregaiina 1 90 



GrincU'lhi 107 



Gronias 94,101 



Gynandropsis 106 



Grystes 77, 88, 96, 101 



Hadrochcerus 315 



Hadropterus . .48, 49, 53, 55, 56, 



89, 101 



Hsemulon 211 



Halatractns 209 



Haplocliilus. 68 



Haploidonotus 44, 96 



Helix 202,297 



Helminthia 107 



Helmiutliophaga 293 



Hemioplitcs 57,59. 94, 101 



Hemiramphus 212, 214 



Hemitrc'iiiia 45, 94, 101 



Hericlithys 90, 101 



Heros 178, 180, 181 



Heterandria 89, 201 



Heterostomum 202 



Hiodon 84, 96, 101 



Hippocampus 204 



Holcus ." 109 



Hololcpis 47, 93, 101 



Hopladelus 46 



Hordeum 108 



Hosackia 274 



Hudsonius 92, 101 



Huro 77, 88, 101 



Hybopsis 45, 78. 90, 101 



HyalospliPiiia 262, 294 



Hybognathus 45, 90, 101 



Hyborhyncluis 45, 90, 101 



Hydrargira 68, 84, 101, 214 



Hydrochoeius 146 



Hyloniyzon 90, 97, 101 



Hyodon 86 



Hyoscyamus 108 



Hyostonia 90, 101 



Hypcntelinm 85,97, 101, 282 



Hyporistuis 93, 101 



Hj'plcurochihis 206 



Hypocli;rris 107 



Hypohoimi-s 94, 101 



Hypsifario 93, 101 



Hypsolepis 90, 97, 101 



Ichthelis 58, 76, 86, 101 



Ichthvobus 45, 71, 73, 82, 283 



Ictalunis 45, 87, 97. 101 



Icti()i)iis 87, 101 



Idoncarca 23 



Ilictis 87, 97, 101 



Imostoma 43, 49, 55, 56, 96, 102 



Inipalit'us 129 



Inoperua 23 



Ipomsea 129 



Isacis 147, 149 



Isuropsis 217 



Juglans 113 



Juius 198 



Juniperus 121 



Kalmia 122 



Kenia 116 



Labidesthes 44, 94, 102 



Labrns 77,85,88, 96 



Lactophrvs 204 



Lagocbihi 280 



Lagodon 210 



Lagonys 314 



Lagostomus 314 



Laqueus 157, 165 



Latbyrus 106 



Laveudulito 192 



Lavinia 90,92, 102 



Lecy I bium 265 



Legumen 23 



Lepibema , 85, 102 



Lcpidium 106 



Lcpidomeda 95, 102 



Lepidosteus ..46, 84, 87, 97, 102, 231 

 Lepomis. . .44, 58, 59, 76, 85, 96, 102 



Leptecheneis 213 



Leptops 87, 97, 102 



Leptosolen 22, 23 



Lepus 273,314 



Leucania 96 



Leuciscus 71, 90, 97 



Leucnpliiys 259 



Leucops 85, 102 



Leucosomus 89, 97, 102 



Limia 92 



Limnita 201 



Limnnrgus 94, 96, 102 



Linaiia 107 



Lingula 205 



Liopistha 22, 23 



Liostomus 210 



Liqiiidambar 115 



Liriodendron 122 



Litbolepis 85,97, 103 



Lolium 108 



Lonici'ia 124 



Lophopsctta 62, 63, 205 



Lota 62 



Lotus 106 



Lucania 92, 102 



Luciotrutia 94, 96, 102 



Lunibiiculus 259 



Lumbricus 197 




INDEX TO GENERA. 



39Y 



L'ltraria 



Lu5cilus...4.^, 71, 78, 79, 86, 93, 



97, 



Lychnis 



Lyopomata 



Ly thrum 



Lythruius 70, 71, 78, 95, 



Macacus . . 

 Macrodon . 

 MagascUa 

 Magnetite. 

 Magnolia . 

 Malva . . . . 



.159,162, 164, 166, 



Margaiitana 



Matricaria 



Maxillingua 84,97, 



Meda 91, 



Medicago 



Megalops 179,180, 187, 



Megerlla 158, 163, 165, 166, 



Mclanconis 110, 



jVIelauura 89, 



Melia 



3Ienispermum 



Menobranchns 



Mentha 



Menticirrus 



Mercurialis 



Mesembrianthemum 



Mesogonistius 59. 93, 



Mesotherium 314, 



Micristius 94, 



Microperca 43, 54, 56, 93, 



Micropogon 



Micropterus. . .44, 59, 77, 83, 96, 



Mikania 



Minnilus. . .45, 70, 78, 79, 86, 90, 



Minomus 91, 95, 



]\Iodiola 



iMollienesia 88, 



Moniana 78, 91, 



Monocystis 196, 



Monostoma 



Moroue 84, 102, 



Morrliua 



Morus 



ISIoxostoma. . . .45, 71, 80, 81, 86, 



Miigil 



Mus 



Mnstela 



Mylocheilus 90, 



Myloleucus 95, 



Mylopharodou 91, 



Myrmica 135,299, 



M\'xine 



Myxoc}-pnnus 



Myxostoma 280, 



24 



102 



106 

 161 

 107 

 102 



194 

 23 

 167 

 293 

 112 

 106 

 26 

 107 

 103 

 103 

 106 

 215 

 167 

 136 

 102 

 126 

 385 

 219 

 108 

 210 

 108 

 107 

 102 

 315 

 102 

 103 

 210 

 102 

 107 

 103 

 103 

 33 

 103 

 103 

 197 

 200 

 211 

 230 

 134 

 103 

 213 

 314 

 268 

 103 

 103 

 103 

 304 

 219 

 283 

 283 

 9., 



Nasua 267 



Naucrates 209 



Nebela 363, 364, 294 



Nccturus 319 



Nemocampsis 86, 96, 103 



Neotoma 39 



Netrophis 180, 186 



Nicotiana 108 



Nocomis 45, 91, 103 



Notcmigonus 45, 85. 97, 103 



Nothonotus 43, 48, 55, 56, 93, 103 



Notropis 84, 103 



Noturus 46, 85, 103 



Xyctotherus 259 



Nyssa 117 



Odontopleura 138, 139 



Oirvgia 139 



Otigocephalus 92, 103 



Onopordou 107 



Ophidium 206 



Opisthonema 180. 187, 215 



Opladelus 87, 97, 103 



Opuntia 3«7, 305 



Orcynus 307 



Ortiiopristis 211 



Orthodon 91, 103 



Oscillatoria 290 



Ostrya 115 



Oxalis 106 



Oxytropis 274 



Pal?eotlierium 152, 154 



Paloplotherium 152 



Paludina 303,359 



Panicum 109 



Panoptca 23, 24 



Pantosteiis 81, 95, 103, 280, 283 



Papaver 105 



Paratractns 208 



Parephippus 211 



Paspalum 300 



Pegedictis 56, 87, 103 



Perca 44, 85, 88, 94, 96 



Percina 44, 53, 55, 56, 88. 96. 103 



Percopsis 89, 90, 108 



Peridermium 125 



Persica 114 



Petromynon 93 



Petromvzon 46, 219, 228 



Phalaris 108 



Phallus 285 



Phascolorays 314, 315 



Phenacobius 94, 103 



Philvpnus 180,181 



Phofadomya 33, 33 



Photogenis 78, 80, 94, 96, 103 



Pica 139 



Picorellus 70, 87, 103 



* 




398 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



Picris 107 



Picus 189 



Pileoma 88, 9G, 103 



Pimelodus 178 



Pimephales 86. 103 



Pinus 115, 286, 319 



Placopharynx . 45, 71 , 81 , 94, 103, 283 



PlaEjopterus 95, 103 



Placusia 205 



Planorbis 200, 201 



Plantago 107 



Plargyrus 103 



Platanus 113, 115 



Platirostra 84, 97, 103 



Platygobio 93, 103 



Plesioperca 95, 103 



PlenioleDis 44, 55, 93, 103 



Pluchea 286 



Pa?cilia 89,178. 180, 187 



PcEcilichthys. .43, 47, 48, 54, 55, 



56, 89, 92, 103 



Poecilosoraa 89, 96, 103 



Pogonias 209 



Pogonichthys 90, 93, 96, 103 



Pogonomyrmex 304 



Pogostoma 77, 85, 103 



Polygonum 108 



Polyodoii 46, 83, 97. 103 



Pomacarapsis 86, 103 



Pomatomus 211 



Pnmolobus 86, 103, 215 



Pomotis 44, 56, 85, 88. 103 



Pomoxis 84,103 



Poniox vs 44. 60 



Populns 114, 117 



Poroniya 23 



Poronotus 209 



Portulaca 287 



Potaniocottus 44, 56, 63, 98, 103 



Potentilla 106 



Prairmitis 109 



Pnonotus 207 



Pristis 179, 181, 190, 217 



Proccros 77, 87, 103 



Procyon 268 



Protocardia 306 



Protoporns 94, 103 



Protopteriis 228 



Protoverniiculite 269 



Prnnus 114, 117 



Pseudopleuronectes 205 



Psoialoa 106 



Pleroplatea 216 



Ptychocheilus 90, 103 



Ptvchoris 22 



Ptvchostomus. . . .71, 80, 90, 108, 280 



Ptyonotus 92, 96, 103 



Pvtrostcns 93, 103 



Pyiodictis 85, 97, 103 



PjTifusus 22 



Pyropsis 32 



Pvrsony mpha 148 



Pyrus 120 



Qnercus 115, 286 



Quiscalus 38 



Kaia 217 



Raimnculus 105 



Rapistrum 106 



Reuiceps 217 



Reseda 106 



Rhanidia 178, 180, 190 



Rhinichthys 45, 89, 97, 103 



Rhododendron 115 



Rhopalocerca 202 



Rhus 119,279 



Rhvnchonella 160 



Ribes 123 



Richardsonia 107 



Richardsoiiius 91, 104 



Robinia 116 



Roccus 84, 104, 211 



Rosa 123 



Rostellaria 23 



Rostellites 23, 306 



Rubus 114 



Rumex 108 



Rutilus 90 



Salix 118 



Salmo 89, 92, 96 



Salmoperca 89, 96, 104 



Samarskite 194 



Sambucus 126 



Sarchirus 84. 97, 104 



Saicidium 94, 104 



Sarcobatus 804 



Sarda 207 



Scanibula 25 



Scandix 107 



Scaphella 306 



Scaphirlivnchops 95, 97, 104 



Scaphirhynchus 88, 97, 104 



Scliilbeoides 93, 104 



Scirena 96 



SciaMiops 210 



Sciurus 314, 316 



Sclorognathus 89, 97, 104 



Scolecosoma 92, 104 



Scomberesox 214 



Scoparia 108 



Scrophularia 108 



Scyllium 228 



Scvmnus 223 



Selene 208 



Semotilus 45, 86, 104 



Senecrio 107 




INDEX TO GENERA. 



309 



Siboma 92, 104 



Silene 106 



Siliqua 22, 23 



Sihmis 87, 97 



Sisvmbiiuni 105 



Solanum 108, 287 



Sophora 274 



Spatularia 84, 97, 104 



Spha?ralcca 106 



Bphopiia Ill 



Sphysena 213 



Sphyrna 217 



Spirillum 147 



Stacbys 108 



Staphvlea 1!? 



Stenodus 92, 96, 104 



Stenotomus 210 



Stentor 148 



Stepbanolepis 204 



Sterletus 87, 104 



Sternotremia GO, 95. 104 



Slilbe 88. 104 



Stilbins 94, 104 



Stizostedion 86, 104 



Strentrite 277 



Stm-io 87, 104 



Synecbloglanis 92, 104 



Syiiguatbus 204 



Syringa 116 



Tagelus 23 



Tapes 22 



Tapinis 153 



Tautoga 207 



Tecoma 124 



Telipomis 86, 104 



Tellina 24 



Tephrosia 274 



Teiebiatella..l56, 161, 164, 166, 167 



Terebratula 167 



Terebratulina 155, 161, 165 



Teretulus 87, 104 



Termes 146, 149, 303 



Tetraguatba 308 



Tetra2;onia 107 



Tetrodon 204 



Thvasira 24 



Tiaroira 91, 104 



Tigoma 78, 91, 104 



Tilia 121,125 



Torpedo 216, 234 



Tournelbrtia 108 



Tracbyjiotus 209 



Trapelocera 139 



Tresiis 24 



Triartbrus 139 



Tribiihis 106 



Tricbiiirns 207 



Triclioiiympba • 147 



Trifolinm 106 



Trii^lop-sis 89, 92, 96,104 



Trigonella 106 



Triironoarca 22 



Triiiema 262,321 



Triticum 304 



Tryfrnn 216 



Tussilasro 107 



TypbJicbtbys 92, 104 



Ulmns 118 



Umbra 44 



Unio 26 



Uranidea 62, 88, 104 



Uropbycis 200 



Vaccaria 106 



Vaccinium ] 25 



Valsa 110,111 



Valsaria 110 



Valsella 110 



Veleda 24 



Veniella 23 



Venilia 22, 23 



Veronica 108 



Vetericardia 22 



Yibiiruiim 118 



Vitis 113 



Voluta 23 



Volutifusus 306 



Vomer 208 



Waldbeimia 158, 161, 165, 167 



Xenisma • . .95, 104 



Xenotis 44, 59, 76, 96, 104 



Xipbias 207 



Zircon 9 



Zoarccs 206 



Zygonectes 44, 67, 89, 104 





GENERAL INDEX. 



401 



GENERAL INDEX. 



Additions to the Library, 364. 

 Allen, J. A., Additional Notes on | 



Bassaricyon Gahhii, 259, 267. 

 Amendment to By-Laws, Art. 8, 



Chap. L 37. i 



Anthony, J. G. Announcement of 



the death of, 299. 



I 

 Baird, M., Announcement of the 



death of, 198. 

 Biological and Microscopical Section, 



Report of, 343. ; 



Botanical Section, Report of, 351. j 

 Brazier, A. J., Announcement of 



the death of, 259. 

 Brown, D. S., Announcement of 



the death of. 272. 

 Bundy. Wm. F., On the Cambari of 



Northern Illinois, 14--), 171. 

 Burk, Isaac, List of Plants recently 



collected on Ship's Ballast in the 



Neighborhood of Philadelphia, 37, 



105. 



Carpenter, P. P., Announcement of 



the death of, 259. 

 Carson, Dr. Jos., Announcement of | 



the death of, 9. , 



Chapman, H. C. On the Giraffe, 37 ; 



On the Coecum of Capybara, 140 ; 



On Reflex Action in Turtles, 146. 

 Chase. P. E.. On the Velocity of In- 1 



finite Fall, 265. 

 Conchological Section, Report of, 



346. i 



Conrad, T. A., On Certain Generic] 



Names proposed bj^ Zittel, Stoli- ' 



czka, and Zekeli, 9, 22 ; Notes on 



Shells, 24 ; Announcement of the 



death of, 275. 

 Cook, M C, On the Valsei of the 



United States, 110. 



Dale, W. H.. Report on the Brachio- 

 poda of Alaska and the Adjacent 



Shores of Northwestern America, 

 146, 155. 

 Dougherty, W. II., On Marbleized 

 Iron, 19'4. 



Earle, J M., Announcement of the 



death of. 286. 

 Elections during 1877, 363. 

 Entomological Section, Report of, 



349. 



Ford, J., Notes Descriptive of a 

 Stone Mound and its Contents, 

 255 ; On a Stone Axe, 305. 



Frazer, P., Jr., On the Hudson 

 River and Utica Slates of Pennsyl- 

 vania. 14 ; Anthracite from "Third- 

 Hill Mountain," West Virginia, 

 16 ; On Copper-bearing Rocks of 

 the Mesozoic Formation, 17; Con- 

 tamination of Drinking Water, 19. 



Gabb, W. ]\I., Correction of Notes on 

 American Cretaceous Fossils. 306. 



Gill, Dr. Theo. and Dr. J. F. Brans- 

 ford, Synopsis of the Fishes of Lake 

 Nicaragua, 151, 175. 



Goldsmith, E., On Elaterite andCoo- 

 rongite from New South Wales, 

 Australia. 133 ; On Lavendulite 

 from Chili, 145, 192 ; On the Al- 

 kali from the Vicinit\' of Fort 

 Bridger, Wj'oming Territory, 306. 



Gray, Asa, Fertilization of Browalia 

 elata, 11. 



Hay, Geo., CJiemical Notes, 132, 142. 



Henshaw, H. W., On Certain Excre- 

 mentitious Deposits from the W>sl, 

 17, 39. 



Howell, C. H., Resignation as a 

 Member, 9. 



Hunt, Dr. J. G., Election as Profes- 

 sor of Histology and Microscopic 

 Technology, 146. 




402 



GENERAL INDEX. 



Jenks, W. P., Vote of thanks to, 9. 

 Jordan, D. S., On the Fishes of 



Northern Indiana, 37, 43. 

 Jordan, D. S. and A. AV. Brayton, 



On Lagochila, a new genus of Ca- 



tostomoid Fishes, 27.), 280. 

 Jordan, D. S. and Chas. H. Gilbert, 



On the Genera of Nortli American 



Fishes, 37, 83. 



Kcenig, G. A., On Astrophyllite, Arf- 

 vedsonite, and Zircon, 9 ; On En- 

 statite, 198 ; Protovermiculite, a 

 Kew Mineral Species, 269 ; Mine- 

 ralogical Xotes, 276, 290, 292, 294 ; 

 On Strangitefroin Rockbridge Co., 

 Va., 277. 



Lankenan, F. W., Announcement of 

 tiie death of, 132. 



LeConte, Dr. J. L., On Rocky Moun- 

 tain Locusts, 129. 



Leidy, Jos., Impurities in Drinking 

 Water, 20; On Eozoon, 20; On 

 the Diaphragm, 20 ; Remarks on 

 the Yellow Ant, 14.") ; On Intesti- 

 nal Parasites of Termes flavipes, 

 146 ; Remarks on Greg nines. 196 ; 

 On Chilomonas, 198; On Flukes 

 infesting MoUusks, 200 ; Remarks 

 on some Parasitic Infusoria, 259 ; 

 Remarks on the Seventeen-year 

 Locust, the Hessian Fly, and a 

 Chelifer, 260; The Birth of a Rhi- 

 zopod, 261 ; (3n the Bed-bug and 

 its Allies, 284 ; On the Feeding of 

 Dinama?ba. 288 ; Concretions re- 

 sembling Bones, 290 ; Apparent 

 Discriminative Power in the Se- 

 lection of Food by a Heliozoon, 

 291 ; Remarks on Rhizopods, and 

 Notice of a New Form, 293 ; On 

 Fossil Fishes, 294 ; Remarks on 

 Ants, 304 ; Remarks on the Ameri- 

 can Species of Difflugia, 306 ; Cir- 

 cumspection of Ants, 320; Rhizo- 

 pods in an Apple-tree, 331 ; Report 

 of Curators. 338. 



Lewis, Dr. Elisha J., Announcement 

 of the death of, 37. ^ 



Lewis, Jas., M.D., Unionidtc of Ohio 

 and Alabama, 9, 26. 



McAllister, J., Jr., Announcement 



of the death of, ",30. 

 McCook, Itcv. H. C, On the Vital 



Power of Ants, 134 ; The Agricul- 

 tural Ants of Texas, 299 ; The 

 Aeronautic Flight of Spiders, 308. 



Martindale, J. C, On the Distribu- 

 tion of Plants, 285 ; On the Intro- 

 duction and Disappearance of 

 Plants, 319. 



Mazyck, W. G., On a New Species 

 of'Helix from Texas, 2S5, 297. 



Meehan, Thos., Fertilization of Bro- 

 walia elata, 13 ; Influence of Nu- 

 trition on Fertilization, 128 ; The 

 Bluebird and Hollyberries, 129 ; 

 Vitalit^^ of Seeds under Low Tem- 

 perature, 129 ; Evolutionary Law 

 as illustrated bv Abnormal Growth 

 in an Apple-tree, 132 ; Tlie Lac- 

 quer-tree, 279 ; Sens'tive Stamens 

 in Purslane, ?87 ; Emigration of 

 Solanum rostratum, 287; Dimor- 

 phism in Ailantus glandulosa. 287 ; 

 Report of Botanical Section, 351. 



Meek, F. B., Announcement of the 

 death of. 9. 



Mineralogical Section, formation of, 

 17 ; Organization of, 151 ; Report 



. of, 356. 



Monks, S. P., On Painted Turtles, 

 199. 



Morris, G. C, on Mineral Caout- 

 chouc, 131. 



Nolan, Edw. J., Report of Record- 

 ing Secretary, 329 ; Report of Li- 

 brarian, 335. 



Officers for 187S, 362. 

 Orton, Jas., Announcement of the 

 death of, 299. 



Page, Dr. Wm. Byrd. Announce- 

 ment of the death'of, 37. 



Parker, C. F., Report of Curator in 

 Charge, 338. 



Physics and Chemistry Section, for- 

 mation of, 37. 



Rand, T. D., On the Rocks near 

 Pliiladelpliia, 251 ; Report of Mine- 

 ralogical Section, 350. 



Redfield, J. II., Report of Conserva- 

 tor of Botanical Section. 352. 



Report of Biological and Microscopi- 

 cal Section, 343. 



Report of Botanical Section, 351. 



Report of Conchological Section, 346. 




GENERAL INDEX. 



403 



Report of the Corresponding Secre- 

 tin}', 330. 



Report of the Curators, 388. 



Report of Entomological Section, 349. 



Report of the Librarian, 335. 



Rejiort of Jlineralocical Section, 356. 



Rej)ort of the President, 323. 



Report of the Recording Secretary, 

 329. 



Ridings, J. H., Report of Entomo- 

 logical Section, 349. 



Roberts, S. R., Report of Concho- 

 logical Section, 340. 



Roemer, Edw., Announcement of 

 the death of, 287. 



Rothrock, J. T., Poisonous Proper- 

 ties of tiie Leguminosje, 274. 



Ruschenberger, Dr. W. S. W., Re- 

 port as President, 822. 



Ryder, J. A., On the Evolution and 

 Homologies of the Incisors of the 

 Horse, 150, 152 ; Note on Color 

 Variation in ^lammals, 272 ; On 

 the Growth of Cocculus Indicus, 

 284; On the Diameters of the In- 

 cisors of Rodents, 299, 314 ; A Dog 

 with Supernumerary Toes, 321. 



Seller, C, Report of Biological and 

 Microscopical Section, 348. 



Smith, Aubrey H., On the Disap- 

 pearance of the Red Oak, 285. 



Smith, Dr. H. H., Resignation as 

 member, 273. 



Smith, J. L., On the Earthy Oxides 



of Samarskite, 194. 

 Struthers, Wm., Announcement of 



the death of, 37. 



Trotter, S., On Helminthophaga leu- 

 cobronchialis, 398. 



Van Rijgersma, H. E., Announce- 

 ment of the death of, 285. 



Vansant, J., Influence of Magnetism 

 on Living Organisms, 275. 



Vodges, A. W., Notes on Genera 

 Acidaspis, Murchison ; Odonto- 

 pleura, Emmerich ; and Ceratoce- 

 phala, Warder, 132, 138. 



Wharton, Jos., On the Eucalyptus 

 globulus, 149. 



Wilder, Burt G., On the Brain of 

 Chimrera monstrosa, 194, 219. 



AYillard, D. D., Announcement of 

 the death of, 275. 



Willcox, Jos., On the Habits of Quis- 

 calus purpurcus, 88 ; Report of 

 Conservator of Mineralogical Sec- 

 tion, 356. 



Wylie, F. W. J., Resignation as 

 member, 17. 



Yarrow, Dr. H. C, Notes on the 

 Natural History of Fort Macon, 

 N. C, and Vicinity (No. 3), 194, 

 203. 





MEMBERS 



CORRESPONDENTS 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OP 



PHILADELPHIA. 



187 7. 



PHILADELPHIA: 



PRINTED FOR THE ACADEMY. 



1877. 




COLLIN'S, PRIXTEB. 




MEMBERS 



ACADE31Y OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



PHILADELPHIA, 



From the foundation of the Society, March 21 , 1 812, until June 30, 1 877. 



^^ Names of members known to be deceased are in italics. Names of life 

 members are preceded bj au asterisk (*) — those wlio are exempt from the pay- 

 ment of all annual dues are styled "life members." — Names of members who 

 are not residents of the city are followed by the letters (N.R.). Names of those 

 who were originally elected correspondents, and became members by removal to 

 the city, are followed by (corres.)- The names of those who have resigned, or 

 who have forfeited their membership, are not included. Correspondents are 

 regarded as members when they become permanent residents in the city. 



*Abbott, William S., Feb. 1876. 

 Ahert, Col. J. J. (N.R.), Oct. 1828. 

 *Adamson, William, Oct. 1S74. 

 *Adamson, Wm. B., Oct. 1874. 

 Agnew, Wm. G. E. (N.R.), May, 1853. 

 *Akhurst, John, March, 1S76. 

 Aldeit, Charles Henry, June, 1837. 

 Alexander, J. S., April, 1875. 

 *Allen, Harrison, M.D., July, 1862. 

 Allen, J. M., M.D., April, 1852. 

 Allen, Nathan, M.D., May, 1841. 

 Allen, Wm. H., Aug. 1S51. 

 Allinson, N. S., M.D., Dec. 1812. 

 Andrews, T. H., M.D., May, 1S6S. 

 *Autelo, A. J., Dec. 1867. 

 Anthony, Thomas, Jan. 1813. 

 Ashburner, Charles A., March, 1877. 

 *Ashhurst, Francis, M.t)., March, 1867. 

 Ashhurst, John, M.D., Oct. 1860. 

 *Ashlnirst, Lenis R., May, 1853. 

 *Ashhurst, Samuel, M.D., March, 1867. 

 *Ashhurst, Wm. H., Feb. 1S61. 

 *Ashinead, Samuel, Sept. 1839. 



Ashmead, Sninuel B., Jan. 1843. 

 Ashmead, Walter K. (N.R.), Nov. 1876. 

 Atlee, Walter F., M.D., May, 1857. 

 Audenried, J. T., June, 1876. 

 *Attdenried, Lewis, Feb. 1859. 

 Audenried, Wm. G., Jan. 1877. 

 *Austin, John B., Jan. 1867. 



Bache, Alex. Dallas (N.R.), Jan. 1829. 

 *Baeder, Charles, Oct. 1874. 

 *Baeder, Charles B., Oct, 1874. 

 *Baird, John, May, 1867. 

 *Bnird, Matthew, April, 1867. 

 *Baird,S.F. (N.R.) (corres.), Aug. 1842. 

 *BairJ, Wm. S., Jan. 1867. 

 Baker, W. H., M.D., March, 1876. 

 *Bancher, Charles N., April, 1824. 

 Bannan, D. R., M.D., U.S.N., March, '69. 

 Barber, Edwin A., Oct. 1S76. 

 ^Barcroft, Stacy B., July, 1855. 

 Barker, Geo. F., Nov. 1874. 

 Barker, George T., D.D.S., Oct. 1873. 

 Barker, Wharton, June, 1868. 




MEMBERS. 



Barnard, Vincent (N.R.), Sept. 1865. 

 *Barnes, .John.M.D. (N.R.), April, 1812. 

 *B'irton, Edward, M.D., Aug. 1815. 

 *Barton, Isaac, March, 1855. 

 *Barton, Mrs. S. R., Dec. 1873. 

 Barton, T. Pennant, (N.R.), April, 1849. 

 Baxter, Harry F., M.D., Feb. 1873. 

 •^Bayard, C. P., May, 1867. 

 *Beach, 0. Nii-hqls, May, 1867. 

 Beadle, Rev. E. R., D.D,, Jan. 1866. 

 *Beck, Charles F., M.D., June, 1827. 

 Beck, Paul, Nov. 1874. 

 Belknap, Henry (N.R.), May, 1849. 

 Bell, John G. (N.R.), May, 1860. 

 Bellows, Horace M., M.D., Feb. 1867. 

 *Beineut, Clarence S., May, 1867. 

 *Bement, Wm. B., .Tan. 1873. 

 Bennett, Daniel R. (N.R.), Feb. 1858. 

 *Benson, Gustavus S., April, 1867. 

 *Benson, Louis F., Nov. 1876. 

 Bertholet,P. P., M.D. (N.R.), Mar. 1857. 

 •*Retts, Richard K., Dec. 1867. 

 *Biddle, Alexander, Aug. 1848. 

 *Biddle, Clement, May, 1850. 

 *Biddle, George, March, 1876. 

 *Biddle, Henry ./., Aug. 1852. 

 *Bid(lle, Nicholas, Jan. 1818. 

 *Biddle, Thomas, May, 1853. 

 *Biddle, Thos. A., March, 1859. 

 *Biddle, Thos., Jr., M.D., Jan. 1877. 

 *Biddle, William F., Sept. 1873. 

 Billings, J. S., M.D., U. S. A., Nov. 1862. 

 Binney, W. G., Sept. 1856. 

 Birch, Wm. Y., Dec. 1823. 

 Birkinbine, John, March, 1869. 

 Bissel, AV. S., Oct. 1874. 

 *Blake, Charles A.. Feb. 1876. 

 *Bluncliard, Wm. A., April, 1867. 

 Bland, Jas. H. B. (N.R.), .Tan, 1866. 

 ■*Blight, Atherton, July, 1858. 

 Boardman, Rev. Geo. D. April, 1866. 

 Bodiue, F. L., Feb. 1867. 

 Bodley, Rachel L.,Feb. 1871. 

 *Buhleti, John, Feb. 1859. 

 *Bohlen, Miss, March, 1867. 

 Boker, Chas. S., M.D.. June, 1866. 

 Boiler, Henry J., April, 1852. 



Bolles, L. S., M.D., June, 1868. 

 Bonaparte, Charles L. (N.R.), Feb. 1824. 

 Bond, Henry, M.D., Jan. 1830. 

 Booth, James C, Sept. 1852. 

 Borden, Fdw. P., June, 1876. 

 *Borie, Adolph E., April, 1867. 

 *Borie, Beau'veau, April, 1867. 

 *Borie, Charles H., Feb. 1867. 

 Bowen, George 7'., Nov. 1822. 

 *Bower, Henry, April, 1869. 

 Bowie, Thomas L., Dec. 1835. 

 Bowrou, Wm. M., Marcli, 1874. 

 Boyd, .John C, M.D., U.S.N., Nov. 1875. 

 *Bradin, Oliver, Ajiril, 1876, 

 *Bradner, N. Roe, M.D., June, 1869. 

 Bransford, J. F., M.D., U. S. N., Oct. 1872. 

 *Brusier, Ainahle ./., March, 1856. 

 Bready, John E., Sept. 1865. 



* Brewer, John M. (corres.), Oct. 1820. 

 Brewster, William B., M.D., April, 1876. 

 *Bridge3, Robert, M.D., Jan. 1835. 

 Brinton, John H., M.D., June, 1851. 

 Britton, J. Blodget, Oct. 1870. 

 *Brock, John P., Sept. 1872. 



Brower, Robt. F., M.D. (N.R.), Nov. 1855. 

 Brown, A. D. (N.R.), Nov. 1861. 

 Brown, Arthur Erwin, June, 1876. 



* Brown, David S., May, 1853. 

 *Brown, John A., May, 1853. 

 *Broivn, Joseph D., May, 1853. 



* Brown, Joseph Johnson, March, 1858. 

 *Brown, Moses, Feb. 1817. 

 Browne, Peter A., May, 1841. 

 *Browning, Edward, June, 1865. 

 Bryant, Henry, M.D. (N.R.), May, 1865. 

 Buckingham, T. L., May, 1868. 

 Buckley, Ed. S., May, 1852. 

 *Bncknell, Rufus, Jan. 1868. 

 *Bucknell, Wm., March, 1861. 

 *Budd, Chas. H., M.D. (N.R.),Mar. 1852- 

 "^Budd, John B., June, 1859. 

 ♦Bullock, Benj., April, 1868. 

 Bullock, Charles, May, 1868. 



*Burk, Isaac, Dec. 1865. 

 *Burrou<jh, ^farmaduke, M.D. , Nov. 1830. 

 Butcher, H. B.,M.D. (N.R.), June, 1866. 

 Butler, Pierce, Aug. 1858. 




MEMBERS. 



Cadwalader, Win., March, 18.55. 

 Caldchugh, Robert A., Nov. 1851. 

 Caldwell U. C.,M.D., U. S. N., Nov. 1857 

 ^Caldwell, James E., Feb. 18(58. 

 *Cama(s Wm., M.D., Ai>nl, 1852. 

 Camar, Wm. M., March, 1839. 

 *Cauiphell, A., April, 1867. 

 *Caiil)y, Wm. M. (N.R.), Dec. ISGO. 

 Carbonell, Felix B. (N.R.),Dec. 1860. 

 *Carmah, Caleb (N.R.), Ang. 1817. 



* Carpenter, Geo. TF., July, 1825. 

 *Carpenter, Geo. W., Jr., Oct. 1860. 

 Carpenter, L. Henry, Major, June, 18G6. 

 ^Carpenter, Samuel P., Feb. 1867. 

 Carson, Joseph, M.D., Oct. 1833. 

 Carter, John E., June, 1868. 



Ca.ssin, C. L., M.D., U. S. N., July, 1869. 

 *Cassi,i, John, Sept. 1842. 

 Castle, Wm. H., March, 1875. 

 Chapman, H. C, M.D.. April, 1868. 

 Chase, Heber, M.D., Aug. 1836. 

 Chase, Pliny E., May, 1876. 

 Chatard, Thos. M., Nov. 1872. 

 *Clieston, D. Murray, M.D., May, 1867. 

 *Childs, Geo. W., Jan. 1866. 

 *Claghorn, C. Eugene, June, 1873. 

 *Claghorn, James L., July, 1852. 

 *Clark, Clarence H.,May, 1867. 

 *Clark, Edward (N.R.), Jan. 1817. 

 *Claik, E. W., May, 1867. 

 *Clark, Frank H., May, 1867. 

 *Clark, J. Hinckley, March, 1859. 



* Clark, John T., M.D., Feb. 1826. 

 Clark, L. S., M.D., Sept. 1873. 

 Clark, T. Edwards (N.R.), Dec. 1858. 

 *Clarke, Edw. S.,Jan. 1858. 



*CIay, Joseph A., Aug. 1837. 

 Cleaver, Isaac, M.D., Jan. 1817. 

 Cleborne, C. J., M.D., U. S. N., July, 1860. 

 Cleburne, Wm. (N.R.), March, 1857. 

 Clements, Richard, M.D., July, 1855. 

 Cleuim, Charles (N.R.),Oct. 1847. 

 *Clyde, Thomas, May, 1867. 

 Coates, Andrew (N.R.), May, 1860. 

 *Coates, Benj. H., M.D., April, 1818. 

 *Coates, Isaac T., M.D., Sept. 1876. 

 Cochran, George, March, 1875. 



Coleman, Geo. Dawson, April, 1858. 

 Coles, John M., M.D., U. S. N., May, 1874. 

 . * Collet, Mark W., Sept. 1852. 

 Collier, David L., Nov. 1870. 

 * Collins, Zaccheus, March, 1815. 

 -Cohocll, Stephen, Feb. 1867. 

 Comegys, Benj. B., March, 1867. 

 Comegys, Walter D., May, 1870. 

 Comly, Franklin A., Feb. 1860, 

 Comly, Isaac, M.D., June, 1868. 

 *Conarroe, Geo. M., Feb. 1861. 

 * Conrad, Solomon W., March, 1826. 

 Conrad, Thomas K. (N.R.), Feb. 1861. 

 Conrad, Timothy A., Jan. 1831. 

 Cook, John E., May, 1877. 

 *Cooke, Jay, May, 1867. 

 *Cooke, John, Jan. 1S48. 

 ^Cooper, Leivis, March, 1867. 

 ^Cope, Alfred, Jn\y,lS5Q. 

 *Cope, Caleb, Jan. 1818. 

 *Cope, Edward D., July, 1861. 

 *Cope, Francis R.,Feb. 1867. 

 *Cope, Miss R. A., Feb. 1867. 

 *Cope, Thomas P., Feb. 1867. 

 *Corlies, S. Fisher, May, 1868. 

 Correa de Serra, Joseph, Feb. 1814. 

 Corse, James M., M.D., Nov. 1852. 

 Covey, Edw. N., M.D. (N.R.),Dec. 1857. 

 *Cox, James S., June, 1859. 

 Coxe, Alexander S., Feb. 1815. 

 *Coxe, Brinton, Dec. 1859. 

 *Coxe, Charles S., April, 1867. 

 Coxe, Eckley B., Jan. 1865. 

 *Craig, Andrew C, May, 1877. 

 Cram, Gen'l F. J., Oct. 1859. 

 Cramp, C. H., June, 1876, 

 *Crease, Orlando, May, 1867. 

 Cressou, Caleb, Feb. 1871. 

 *Cressou, Chas. Caleb, Sept. 1840. 

 *Cresson, Ezra T., April, 1858. 

 *Cresson, John C, April, 1853. 

 Cross, C. W.,,Ian. 1877. 

 *Crozer, John P., March, 1862. 

 Cruice, Robert B., M.D., Dec. 1874, 

 Cruice, Wm, B., M.D., Jan. 1876. 

 Cuesta, Fernando dela (N.R.),Nov. 1844. 

 *Cummins, Daniel B., June, 1857. 




MEMBERS. 



CiirtiD, Roland G., M.D., Nov. 1S71. 

 Curtis, Edw., M.D. (N.R.), July, 1863. 

 Curtis, Josiali (N.R.), June, 1843. 

 *Cuyler, Theodore, Feb. 1869. 



*Da Costa, J. C.M.D., Feb. 1852. 

 Da Costa, John C, Jr., June, 1857. 

 Da Costa, John C, Sr., June, 1857. 

 Dallam, David E., Nov. 1874. 

 Darby, John T., M.D. (N.R.), March, 1859. 

 Darlington, Wra. M. (N.R.), Nov. 1868. 

 Darrach, Jas. A., M.D., Nov. 1858. 

 Darrach, Win., M.D., May, 1844. 

 Davids, Hugh, Dec. 1866. 

 *Davidson, Geo., Aug. 1858. 

 Davis, Chas.,M.D. (N.R.), March, 1842. 

 Davis, David Jones, June, 1815. 

 Davis, John C, June, 1859. 

 Davis, William M., Jr., Oct. 1875. 

 Day, Richard H., Nov. 1871. 

 De Figaniere, Alfonso (N.R.),Mar. 1866. 

 *Deitz, Rudolph, Jan. 1821. 

 *Dickesou, M. W., M.D.,Oct. 1846. 

 *Dickey, Rev. Charles A., April, 1876. 

 Dickson, S. Henry, M.D. (cor.), Feb. 1843. 

 *Diffenhaugh, E., Dec. 1865. 

 *Dimpfel, F. P., April, 1858. 

 *Dixon, George B., March, 1876. 

 ^Dobson, Judah, Nov. 1813. 

 Dock, Geo., M.D. (N.R.), Feb. 1854. 

 *Dougherty, James, Oct. 1874. 

 *Dougherty, Wm. H., Nov. 1870. 

 Dow, John M. (N.R.), Sept. 1858. 

 Downie, T. C. (N.R.), Aug. 1859. 

 Doyle, John, Sept. 1872. 

 *Draper, Edmund, May, 1853. 

 Drayton, Henry E., M.D., April, 1858. 

 *Dreer, Ferdinand J., April, 1857. 

 *Drexel, Jos. W., June, 1860. 

 Drown, T. M., M.D., May, 1872. 

 Ducachet, Rev. H. JF., D.D., April, 1852, 

 * Dulles, Joseph H., Feb. 1816. 

 Dulty, William, Feb. 1869. 

 Dundas, Jas., Aug. 1844. 

 Duuglison, Richard A., M.D., May, 1874, 

 *Dunglison, Rohley, M.D., Jan. 1853. 

 Dunglison, Thos. R., M.D., April, 1872. 



Dunlap, Thomas, Dec. 1856. 



Dunn, Nathan (corres.), June, 1828. 



Durand, Elias, April, 1852. 



Durborrow, Chas. B., March, 1866. 



*Dutilh, Charles, Oct. 1874. 



Dutton, Clar. Ed., Lt. U. S. A., Feb. 1871. 



*Earp, Thomas, March, 1867. 

 Eastwick, Edward P. (N.R.), May, 1857. 

 Eberle, .John, M.D., April, 1819. 

 *Eckfeldt, John, M.D., March, 1876. 

 ^Eckstein, H. C, M.D.,U. S. N., June,lS73. 

 ^Edwards, Amory (N.R.), March, 1852. 

 Edwards, Arthur M. (N.R.), Sept. 1858. 

 *Edwards, Edward B., .Jan. 1867. 

 Edwards, J. Warner, May, 1875. 

 Egbert, Daniel, M.D., U. S. N., October, 



1858. 

 Eisenbrey, W. Harrison, March, 1870. 

 ^Ellet, Chas., Jr., April, 1842. 

 Elliot, D. G. (N.R.), May, 1860. 

 *Ellniaker, Levi, April, 1829. 

 Elwyn, Alfred L., M.D,, Dec. 1831. 

 Emerson, G., M.D., Aug. 1S53. 

 Emlen, Hairy, June, 1869. 

 Emlen, J. Norris, April, 1859. 

 Endlich, Frederick W. (N.R.), June, 1871. 

 England, James B., July, 1875, 

 *Eunis, Jacob, Feb. 1857. 

 *Erben, Peter C, April, 1873. 

 Evans, Edm. C, M.D. (N.R.), Oct. 1838. 

 Evans, Rowland E., Nov, 1860. 



Fagan, Hugh I., Jan. 1875. 



*Fahnestock, Geo. IF., Aug. 1852. 



Farnum, J. Edwards, .Ian. 1867. 



*Farnum, John, May, 1853. 



*Fell, J. G., May, 1853. 



Ftltus, Henry J., Nov. 1859. 



Fenimore, Jason L., June, 1866. 

 , Field, Thos. Y. (N.R.), Aug. 1859. 



Fiot, Augustus, Jan. 1864. 



Fischer, Emil, M.D., Nov. 1868. 



*Fisher, Charles Henry, May, 1853. 

 , Fisher, EUicott, April, 1875. 



*Fisher, Harvey, June, 1876. 



Fisher, Henry M., M.D., Jan. 1876. 




MEMBERS. 



*Fisher, Jas.C, M.D. (N.R.), July, 1850. 

 *Fisher, J. Francis, May, 1853. 



* Fisher, Joseph, May, 1821. 

 Fisher, Thomas, April, 1824. 

 *Fitler, Edwin H.,M.D., Jau. 1876. 

 Fogg, Isaac S., April, 1S69. 



Follz, Joiialhan, M.D., U.S.N., May, 1859. 



*Foote, Albert E., M.D., July, 1876. 



Ford, John, Dec. 1866. 



Forwood.W. H..M.D.,U. S. A., Oct. 1876. 



Foster, Hudson S., Jan. 1834. 



Foster, Wm. A., Nov. 1833. 



Fonlke, [Vyn. Parker, Nov. 1849. 



*Fox, Joseph M., Dec. 1873. 



*Fox, Wm. Logan, Jan. 1873. 



Frampton,L. A.,M.D.(N.R.),Sept.l859. 



Francfort, Eug., M.D. (N.R.),Oct. 1856. 



Frazer, John F., Sept. 1835. 



*Frazer, Persifor, Jr., May, 1869. 



*Frazer, Robert, Jan. 1866. 



*Frazier, Robert, April, 1814. 



*Freedly, Wm, G., April, 1872. 



Fricke, Albert, M.D., Nov. 1859. 



^Frost, John, Sept. 1844. ' 



Fry, Horace B. (N.R.), Dec. 1859. 



Fry, J. Reese, Jan. 1857. 



*Furness, H. H., Nov. 1861. 



Gabb, Wm. M. (N.R.), Jan. 1860. 

 GamheU, Wm., M.D., Aug. 1843. 

 '*Garrett, Philip C, Feb. 1866. 

 Garrigues, S. S., M.D.(N.R.), June, 1856 

 Genth, Fred. A., M.D., April, 1852. 

 Gentry, Thos. G., Sept. 1870. 



* Gerhard, Wvi. W., M.D., Nov. 1835. 

 Germain, Lewis J. (N.R.), April, 1846. 

 Gibbons, Charles, Jau. 1867. 

 Gibbons, Wm. P. (N.R.), Nov. 1833. 

 GIbbs, George, (N.R.), Jan. 1856. 

 *Gibson, Henry C, July, 1867. 

 *Gibsou, John, July, 1867 



*Gibson, Miss Rebecca, March, 1875. 

 Gihon, A. L., M.D., U. S. N., Dec. 1871. 

 Gilbert, Wm. K., M.D., May, 1866. 

 *GilUams, J., M.D. (found.), Jan. 1812, 

 Gillingham, .Joseph E., May, 1872. 

 Gillis, J. P., Commodore U.S.N., Nov. '71 



Givin, R. M., M.D., Dec. 1874. 

 Gobrecht.W. H.,M.D. (N. R.), July, 1856. 

 Go(/(/nrf/, /vj«(7s/on. Rev. (N.R.), Jan. 1848. 

 Goddard, Kingston G., M.D., April. 1873. 

 Goddard, Paul B., M.D., Feb. 1829. 

 *Godey, Louis A., May, 1874. 

 Godman, John D., M.D., .July, 1821. 

 *Goldsmith, Edward, Jan. 1868. 

 Goodman, Henry Ernest, M.D., Jan. 1877. 

 Gorgas, Albert C, M.D., U. S. N., Feb. '57. 

 Gowen, F. B., April, 1872. 

 *Graefif, John E., Feb. 1866. 

 *Graff, Frederic, May, 1853. 

 *Graham, Mrs. Elizabeth V., Oct. 1874. 

 *Grant, Gen. Ulysses S., July, 1865. 

 Grant, ^Ym. Robertson, M.D., Dec. 1849. 

 *Graut, Wm. S., Dec. 1866. 

 *Gratz, Robert H., April, 1867. 

 *Greble, Edwin, Jan. 1867. 

 Greenbank, Richard M., M.D., Oct. 1859. 

 *Greene, F. V., M.D., U. S. N., Sept. 1852. 

 *Greene, Stephen, Sept. 1875. 

 Greer, James, March, 1869. 

 Grier, Wm. P., M.D., June, 1859. 

 Griffith, J. P. Crozer, Feb. 1876. 

 Griffith, R. Egglesjield, M.D., May, 1815. 



* Griffith, Robert E., Sept. 1852. 

 Griffith, Robt. E., M.D., Oct. 1856. 

 *Grigg, John, May, 1853. 

 Griscoui, Samuel S., Nov. 1830. 

 Gross, Saml. D., M.D., Dec. 1856. 



. Grubb, Edw. Burd (N.R.), April, 1860. 

 *Guex, John A., Nov. 1854. 

 Guier, George, M.D. (N.R.), .June, 1866. 

 Guillou, Constant, March, 1854. 

 Guillou, Victor, Oct. 1858. 

 Gumbes, Sam. Wetherill, April, 1834. 

 Gumbes,Wm. H., May, 1870. 

 Gutekuust, Frederick, June, 1871. 



*Haddock, Daniel, .Jr., May, 1866. 

 *Haehnlen, Lewis, April, 1873. 

 Ilagedorn, C. F., Aug. 1855. 



* Haines, Miss Ann, Feb. 1867. 

 •"Haines, Miss Jane R., Feb. 1867. 

 *Haine3, John S., March, 1841. 



, "Uaines, Reuben, Nov. 1813. 




O MEMBERS. 



*Haines, Reuben, May, 1874. *Henszey, George C, March, 1SG9. 



*Haines, Robt. B., Jan. 1848. -Henszey, W. C, Jan. 1S59. 



Haldemaii, Rich. J. (N.R.), Aug. 1857. Hentz, N. J/. (N.R.), May, 1819. 



*Haldemau, S. S. (N.R.), Jan. 1837. Hepburn, Jas. (N.R.), June, 1863. 



Hall, Augustus R., April, 1873. *Hering, C, M.D. (corres.), Oct. 1826. 



Hall, Charles E., Feb. 1875. Hering, C. J. (N.R.), Sept. 1855. 



Hallowell, Caleb S., Jan. 1869. Hess, Robert, M.D., May, 1876. 



*HaUowell, Edw., M.D., Feb. 1834. *Heuston, Geo. (N.R.), March, 1870. 



*Hallowell, Morris L., May, 1853. *Hewson, Addiuell, M.D., Jan. 1853. 



*Haheii, Wm. S., M.D., April, 1857. Hibhr, W. Grier, Nov. 1S71. 



Hamilton, Hugh, M. D.(N.R.), May, 1874. i/)>s^er, J. P., M.D. (N.R.), Nov. 1843. 



*Hammitt, B., June, 1867. Hilgard, T. C, M.D. (N.R.), Oct. 1854. 



*Hand, James C, July, I860.' Hiukle, A. 0. B., M.D., Sept. 1867. 



Hanson, II. Cooper, Feb. 1853. *Hockley, Mrs. Amelia D., Oct. 1874. 



Hare, H. Binney, M.D., Aug. 1867. *Hockley, Thomas, May, 1874. 



*Hare, Robert, M.D., Nov. 1813. *Hoffman, C. J., Sept. 1873. 



Hare, Robt. H., Feb. 1859. Hoffman, W. I., M.D., Nov. 1874. 



Hargadiue, R.W.,M.D.(N.R.),May,1868. Holman, D. Shepherd, May, 1872. 



^Harlan, Richard, M.D., Oct. 1815. ^Holmes, Chas., Feb. 1838. 



Harlow, Louis D., M.D., Aug. 1857. Holt, J. F., M.D., June, 1868. 



Harmar, James Lauman, Aug. 1869. Hooper, Wm. H., M.D., Dec. 1854. 



^Harris, Edward (N.R.), Aug. 1835. *Hoopes, B. A., Feb. 1856. 



*Harrison, Joseph, Jr., Aug. 1854. Hoopes, Josiah, April, 1866. 



Harrison, Theodore L., Feb. 1870. Ilopkvison, Joseph, M.D., Feb. 1852. 



Hart, Harry C, M.D., March, 1858. *Horn, Geo. H., M.D., July, 1866. 



Hartman, John M., Feb. 1873. Horn, Wilbur F. (N.R.), Dec. 1869. 



*Hartshorne, Chas., Feb. 1866. ^Horner, Win. E., M.D.,Feb. 1849, 



Hartshorne, Edw., M.D., May, 1847. Hornor, Ellen, May, 1870. 



HartsLorne, H.,M.D. (N.R.), April, 1855. *Horstman, F. Oden, May, 1875. 

 *HaseItine, Frank, May, 1867. ^Horstmann, Wm. J., Dec. 1863. 



^Haseltine, John, April, 1859. ^Houston, H. H., April, 1867. 



-Haseltine, Ward B., April, 1859. Howell, Rev. J. B. (N.R.), Sept. 1873. 



Hassler, F. A., M.D., 1867. Howell, Sanil. B., M.D., Nov. 1855. 



*Hawkins, B. Waterhouse, Aug. 1868. IluffnagJe, C/ms., M.D. (N.R.), Nov. 1830. 

 *Hay, William, April, 1867. Hugel, A. (N.R.), Sept. 1865. 



Hayden,F. v., M.D. (corres.). Mar. 1856. Humphrey, H. C, Dec. 1875. 

 *Hayes, Isaac I., M.D.(N.R.), Jan. 1856. Humphrey, Rev. Z. M., Nov. 1869. 

 *Hays, Isaac, M.D., July, 1818. *Humphreys, Geo. A., Sept. 1855. 



♦Hazard, Joseph P., Nov. 1872. *Hunt, J. Gibbons, M.D., July, 1S58. 



Hazard, Sand, (corres.), Jan. 1814. Hunt, Wm., M.D., Jan. 1855. 



Heerman, Adolphns L., M.D., April, 1845. *Huuter, Chas. T., M.D., Jan. 1870. 

 Heger, Anthony, M.D. (N.R.), Feb. 1867. ^Huston, Samuel, May, 1866. 

 Helfenstein, J. S., June, 1876. *Hutchinson, Jas. H., M.D., April, 1S5S. 



*Hembel, Williavi, Sept. 1824. ^Hutchinson, J. Pemberton, May, 1853. 



Henderson, A. A., M.D., U. S. N. (cor.), 



July, 1848. Jaclcson, Isaac R., Aug. 1841. 



Henrif, Bernard, M.D., May, 1849. James, Bushrod W., M.D., Oct. 1870. 




MEMBERS. 



*James, Tlio-i. C, M.D., March, 1814. 

 Jaiieway.J. H.,M.D. (N.R.), Sept. 1858 

 Janney, Nathaniel E., April, 1873. 

 *Jaudon, Samuel (N.R.),Jan. 1836. 

 Jayne, Eben C, Dec. 186(5. 

 *Iayiie, Horace F., Feb. 1876. 

 •■■Jeaiit'S, Miss Anna T., May, 1875. 

 *Jeaiies, .Joseph, May, 1853. 

 *Jeaues, Joshua T., Dec. 1866. 

 *Jeanes, Miss Mary, May, 1875. 

 *Jeanes, Samuel, Jan. 1856. 

 Jeflferis, Wm. W., Nov. 1874. 

 Jenkins, Wilson M. (N.R.), Jan. 1867. 

 *Jenks, Wm. P., Feb. 1871. 

 *.Jessiip, Alfred D., April, 1872. 

 ^Jessup, Augustus E., Nov. 1818. 

 *Jessup, Edw. A., Nov. 1857. 

 Johnson, Christopher (N.R.), Dec. 1858. 

 Johnson, Walter R. (N.R.), Feb. 1827. 

 Johnstone, Alex., March, 1860. 

 *Jones, Jacob P., March, 1875. 

 Jones, Thos. P., M.D., Dec. 1812. 

 *Jordan, John, Jr., Jan, 1851. 

 Judson, Oliver A., M.D., Oct. 1858. 

 Justice, A. R., June, 1876. 



Kane, Elisha K., Jan. 1843. 

 Kane, John K., M.D. (N.R.), April, 1859. 

 Keagy, J. il., M.D., Jan. 1843. 

 ^'■Keating, Wm. H., April, 1816. 

 *Keating, Wm. V., M.D., Jan. 1853. 

 *Keehmle,Wm. C, March, 1866. 

 Keen, Wm. W., Jr., M.D., April, 1867. 

 Keflfer, Fred. A., M.D. (N.R.), Nov. 1864. 

 Keim, Geo. De B., Jan. 1874. 

 Keim, Geo. M. (N.R.), July, 1852. 

 Keller, Wilhelm, M.D., Nov. 1848. 

 Kelly, Howard A., July, 1875. 

 Kendall, Prof. E. Otis, March, 1860. 

 *Keuderdine, Robt. S., M.D., May, 1866. 

 "Kennedy, Elias D., Aug. 1867. 

 Kfinnicott, R. (corres., N.R.), April, 1858. 

 Kern, Benj. J., M.D., Sept. 1847. 

 Km, Edioard M. (N.R.), Oct. 1847. 

 Kern, Richard II., May, 1847. 

 *Kilvington, Robert, April, 1843. 

 King, Chas. R., M.D., June, 1843. 



King, Wm. M., M.D. (N.R.), Oct. 1803. 

 , King, Wm. S., M.D. (N.R.), July, 1863. 

 Kingsbury, Chas. A., M.D., March, 1860. 

 *Kingsley, I. E., May, 1874. 

 Kinsman, Chas. W., Feb. 1865. 

 Kitchen, J. S., M.D., U. S. N., June, 1858. 

 *Klett, Frederick, Dec. 1865. 

 ■^Kneass, Wm., May, 1814. 

 Kneelaud,S., Jr.,M.D.(N.R.),May, 1858. 

 *Knight, Edw. C, May, 1867. 

 Knight, J. B., Nov. 1875. 

 *Kuight, J. Frank, Feb. 1863. 

 Koenig, George A., M.D., Nov. 1872. 

 Krauth, C. P., Nov. 1872. 

 *Krider, John, March, 1859. 



*Laing, Henry M., June, 1876. 



*Lambert, John, Nov. 1846. 



Lamborn, R. H.,May, 1857. 



Land, John (N.R.), May, 1836. 



Lang, Edmund, M.D., April, 1853. 



Langstroth, Rev. L. L.(N.R.),Sept. 1851. 



*Lankenau, Frank W., Dec. 1873. 



*Lea, H. C, Feb. 1848. 



*Lea, Isaac, LL.D., June, 1815. 



Lea, John, May, 1815. 



*Lea, Joseph, June, 1852. 



*Lea, M. Carey, Sept. 1847. 



*Lea, Thos. T., May, 1853. 



Le Conte, John (corres.), Feb. 1815. 



*LeConte,J. L., M.D. (corres.), Feb. 1845. 



Leeds, Albert R. (N.R.), Dec. 1866. 



Leeds, Josiah W., Dec. 1867. 



Leflfman, Henry, M.D., Sept. 1872. 



*Leidy, Joseph, M.D., July, 1845. 



Leisenring, John, Oct. 1874. 



*Lejee, Wm. R., Feb. 1848. 



*Lennig, Francis, July, 1851. 



*Lennig, Nicholas, Jan. 1875. 



*Lenning, Chas,, Oct. 1847. 



Lesley, J. P., June, 1853. 



''•Lesueur, Chas. J., Jan. 1818. 



Letterman, J. C.,M.D. (N.R.),Jan. 1859. 



Levick, James J., M.D., Jan. 1867. 



*Leivis A. J., May, 1853. 



*Lewis, Chas. S., April, 1866. 



Lewis, Edward, March, 1868. 




10 



MEMBERS. 



*Lewis, EHsha J., M.D., July, 1S46. 

 *Lew!s, Francis W., M.D., Oct. 1849. 

 *Lewis, Geo. T., Dec. 1863. 

 Lewis, Grace Anna, May, 1870. 

 *Lewi3, Henry C, March, 1875. 

 *Lewis, John T., March, 1876. 

 Lewis, Richard A., Nov. 1871. 

 Lewis, Samuel, M.D., Oct. 1855. 

 *Lewis, Samuel G., Sept. 1875. 

 *Lewis, Saunders, March, 1859. 

 Leypoldt, F. (N.R.), March, 1862. 

 *Lilly, William, March, 1874. 

 *Lippincott, Joshua, April, 1859. 

 *Lippincott, Joshua B., June, 1853. 

 *Little, Amos R., March, 1866. 

 *Little, James H., April, 1867. 

 *Livezey, John, Feb. 1867. 

 *Logan, J. Dickinson, M.D., Mar. 1853. 

 *Long, Mrs. E. P., March, 1867. 

 Longstreth, Joshua, June, 1815. 

 *Longstreth, Wm. W., Feb. 1860. 

 Lorenz, W., Feb. 1863. 

 *Lovering, Jos. S., Jr., Feb. 1867. 

 *Lovering, Joseph S., May, 1853. 

 *Ludlow, Jolin L., M.D., Nov. 1847. 

 *Lukens, Isaiah, June, 1812. 

 Luther, Diller, M.D. (N.R.), Oct. 1854. 

 Lyman, Beuj. Smith (N.R.), Aug. 1865. 



*Macalester, Charles, Jan. 1873. 

 *McAllister, Jas. W., Feb. 1876. 

 M'Allister, John, Jr., June, 1856. 

 McAllister, W. Mitchell, Nov. 1868. 

 M'Call, Gen. G. J..(corres.), June, 1847. 

 McCanles, John, April, 1859. 

 M'Clellan, J. H. B., M.D., Nov. 1847. 

 *McClure, IF»i., July, 1812. 

 McCombs, R. S., M.D., Nov. 1875. 

 McCook, Rev. H. C, Aug. 1875. 

 *McCreary, Geo. D., Dec. 1874. 

 *McCreary, L Elmore, Dec. 1874. 

 ♦McCreary, J. B., May, 1865. 

 Macdowell, William G., Oct. 1874. 

 M'Euen, Chas., Dec. 1834. 

 McEuen, Chas. Izard, June, 1858. 

 *M'Euen, Thos., M.D., May, 1818. 

 Macfarlane, Andrew, A.M., Sept. 1873. 



Macfarlane, Charles W., Jan. 1874. 

 Macfarlane, John J., April, 1873. 

 McGrath, John M., M.D., May, 1875. 

 McGuire, Jas. C. (N.R.), April, 1857. 

 *McIntyre, Archibald, Feb. 1871. 

 *McKean, H. Pratt, April, 1867. 

 *McKean, Wm. V., .Jan. 1875. 

 *Mackellar, Thos., March, 1877. 

 McLaughlin, John, Feb. 1871. 

 *Maclure, Alexander, Dec. 1840. 

 M' Michael, Win., June, 1850. 

 McQuillen, J. H., M.D., Oct. 1865. 

 *Mactier, Wm. L., Jan. 1860. 

 *Magarge, Charles, April, 1867. 

 *Magee, Horace, Dec. 1867. 

 *Magee, J. Roualdson, Dec. 1867. 

 Maisch, John M., March, 1864. 

 *J/a«n, C. M. (founder), Jan. 1812. 

 ^Markland, John H., May, 1839. 

 Marsh, Beuj. V., April, 1857. 

 ^Marshall, Benj., Feb. 1867. 

 *Marsh'dl, Richard M., Feb. 1867. 

 *Martin, Geo., M.D., April, 1857. 

 *Martin, Jas." S., Feb. 1870. 

 *Martin, John S., March, 1876. 

 Martindale, Isaac C, June, 1876. 

 Martindale, Jos. C, M.D., Jan. 1863. 

 *Mason, James S., March, 1875. 

 *Massey, William, May, 1873. 

 Matthews, Chas. W., Oct. 1867. 

 *Maule, Daniel, Oct. 1874. 

 Maury, F. F., M.D., May, 1868. 

 Mayhurry, Wm., M.D., Oct. 1866. 

 *Mead, Theodore L. (N.R.), March, 1876. 

 ^Meade, Maj. Gen. Geo. C.,July, 1865. 

 Mears, J. Ewing, M.D., Nov. 1870. 

 *Meehan, Thos., March, ISGO. 

 *Meichel, John, March, 1876. 

 *Meigs, .Tas. Aitken, M.D., April, 1852. 

 *Meigs, J. Forsyth, M.D., April, 1852. 

 *Mercer, Singleton A., May, 1853. 

 *Merrick, J. Vaughau, April, 1854. 

 * Merrick, Saml. V., May, 1853. 

 *Messchert, M. H., June, 1S54. 

 Mickle, Andrew E., M.D., June, 1831. 

 Mifflin, Geo., March, 1835. 

 Miller, Adolph W., Aug. 1875. 




MEMBERS. 



11 



♦Miller, Andrew H., Dec. 1871. 

 Miller, Clement S., Dec. 183t5. 

 Miller, E. Spencer, May, 1862. 

 *Miller, Jos. W., May, 1S72. 

 Milliken, Jas., March, 1863. 

 Millikin, George, July, 1875. 

 Mills, Chas. K., M.D., Oct. 1870. 

 Minturn, Edw., M.D., Oct. 1857. 

 *Miskey, Wm. F., April, 1872. 

 Mitchell, Ed. Craig (N.R.), July, 1860. 

 *Mitchell, I. E., Oct. 1874. 

 *M!fchell, John K., M.D., July, 1822. 

 Mitchell, S. Weir, M.D., Sept. 1853. 

 Monks, Sarah P., Sept. 1872. 

 Monnier, Alfred (N.R.), Aug. 1856. 

 Montgomery, John T., Jan. 1877. 

 Moore, Alfred, Feb, 1873. 

 *Moore, Andrew M., July, 1867. 

 *Moore, B. H., April, 1872. 

 *Moore, B. H., Mrs., April, 1872. 

 Moore, Francis, M.D., May, 1860. 

 Moore, Gideon E., Ph.D., Nov. 1872. 

 Moore, J. G., July, 1866. 

 *Moore, Saml., M.D., Nov. 1855. 

 *Moorhead, Wm. G., Dec. 1867. 

 *Mordecai,E. R.,M.D. (N.R.),May,1860, 

 Morehouse, Geo. R., M.D., Aug. 1856. 

 *Morris, EUiston P., Nov. 1875. 

 Morris, Galloway C, May, 1874. 

 ^Morris, Henry, March, 1862. 

 *Morris, Henry G., Feb. 1868. 

 *Morris, Israel, April, 1867. 

 ^Morris, Jacob G., April, 1852. 

 *Morri3, J. Cheston, M.D.,Oct, 1854, 

 Morris, John T., April, 1870. 

 *Morris, Mrs. Levi, April, 1873. 



* Morris, Maryaretta H., Sept. 1859. 

 *Morris, P. P., May, 1872. 

 *Morris, Stephen, Feb. 1868. 

 *Morris, Theo. H., May, 1867. 

 *Morris, Wistar, April, 1867. 



* Morton, Sainuel C, March, 1867. 

 *Morton, Saml. Geo., M.D., April, 1820. 

 Morton, Thos. Geo., M.D., Aug. 1856. 

 Moss, Theo. F., June, 1S45. 



Muckle, Alexander, M.D., Jan. 1875. 

 Muhlenberg, Henry A. (N.R.), Jan. 1874 



Munzinger, Pierre, March, 1876. 

 iMutter, Thos. D., M.D., July, 1833. 

 *Myers, John B., May, 1853. 



Nancrede, Charles B., M.D., June, 1869, 

 *Neall, Daniel, Dec. 1873. 

 *Nebinger, A., M.D., July, 1866. 

 Neff, Chas., M,D., April, 1858. 

 Neuman, Joseph, Sept. 1873, 

 Newhold, Thos., M.D. (N.R.), Nov, 1854. 

 Newkirk, Matthew, Nov. 1867. 

 ♦Nichols, Gustavus A., March, 1871. 

 *Nolan, Edw. J., M.D., April, 1867. 

 Norris, Geo. W., M.D., May, 1858. 

 *Norris, Herbert, M.D., May, 1868. 

 *Norris, Isaac, M.D., Jan. 1861. 



* Norris, Octavus A., Oct. 1849. 

 ^Norris, Thqddeus, May, 1858. 



* Norris, Wm., Jr., Dec. 1830. 

 *Norris, Wm. F., M.D., May, 1858. 



Ogden, Jas. A., M.D., Nov. 1871. 

 O'Neil, T. Warren (N.R.), Feb. 1871. 

 *Ord, George, Sept. 1815. 

 Orne, Jas. H , l^ec. 1865, 

 . Owen, A, M., M.D., U. S. N., Oct. 1874. 



Packard, John H., M.D., Nov. 1856. 

 ■^Page, Joseph F., April, 1867. 

 Page, Wm. Bijrd, M.D., April, 1853. 

 *Pancoast, Jos., M.D., Dec. 1847. 

 Pancoast, Wm. H,, M.D., Sept. 1870. 

 *Parke, Thomas E., M.D., Nov. 1871, 

 *Parker, Chas. F.,Aug. 1865. 

 *Parmentier,N. S. (founder), Jan. 1812. 

 Parrish, Charles, Oct, 1874. 

 Pai-rish, Edward, Prof., Dec. 1860. 

 ♦Parrish, Jas. C, March, 1866, 

 Parrish, Wm. D., May, 1858. 

 Patterson, Francis E., Jan, 1859. 

 Patterson, J. M., Jan. 1875, 

 ♦Patterson, Joseph, Feb, 1867. 

 ^Patterson, R. M., M.D., Jan. 1816. 

 Paul, Jas., M.D., March, 1857. 

 ♦Peace, Edw., M.D. , April, 1859. 

 Peale, Charles Wilson, April, 1868. 

 . *Peale, Titian R., Aug. 1817. 




12 



MEMBERS. 



PenrsaU,Robt., Dec. 1S35. 

 *Pease, James G., Nov. 1874. 

 Peirce, C. Newlin, D.D.S,, Feb. 1868. 

 Peirce, Gertrude K., April, 1877. 

 *Peltz, Richard, March, 1868. 

 Perabertou, Henry, March, 1876. 

 *Peuuock, Mrs. Caroline, Jan. 1873. 

 *Pennock,C.W.,l,l.T). (N.R. ), June, 1824 

 Pennypacker, I. A., M.D., Sept. 1854. 

 Pennypacker, I. Towers, Feb. 1875. 

 Pennypacker, Samuel W., Nov. 1871. 

 Penrose, R. A. F., M.D., April, 1856. 

 Penrose, Saml. S., Nov. 1830. 



*Price, Eli K., Nov. 1875. 



Price, Isaac C, Nov. 1868. 



*Price, J. Sergeant, Feb. 187fl. 



^ Price, Richard, May, 1853. 



Prince, Wni., Capt., U. S. A., Sept. 1872. 



Procter, Ifm., Jr., Feb. 1867. 



*Poiihon, C/ias. ^., Sept. 1823. 



*Queen, Jas. W., Jan. 1858. 

 Quimby, B. F., April, 1S71. 



Rafinesqw, C. 5., Feb. 1816. 

 *Ralston, Rev. J. G., May, 1867. 



Penrose, T. N., M.D., U. S. N., May, 1873. *Rand, B. Howard, M.D., Jan. 1851. 



Pepper, Geo., M.D., Aug. 1867. 

 *Pepper, Geo. S., July, 1860. 

 * Pepper, Henry, May, 1853. 

 *Pepper, L. S.,M.D., July, 1857. 

 Prpper, Wm., M.D., Feb. 1837. 

 Percival, Thomas C, Jan. 1845. 

 Perot, Charles P., May, 1874. 

 Peters, Francis, Jan. 1859. 

 Peterson, Geo. IF., Aug. 1859. 

 ^Peterson, Richard, April, 1873. 

 *Peterson, Robert E., April, 1831. 

 *Phillips, C. Charles, Feb. 1871. 

 Phillips, John S., Aug. 1836. 

 ^Phillips, Moro, March, 1867. 

 ^Pierce, Jacob (N.R.), Dec. 1813. 

 Piersol, George A., M.D., April, 1876. 

 *Pine, William S., March, 1876. 

 Piatt, Franklin, Jr., Dec. 1868. 

 *Plaft, Wm., May, 1853. 

 Piatt, William G., May. 1875. 

 Porter, Prof. E. D. (N.R.), Oct. 1857. 

 *Potter, Thomas, May, 1867. 

 Potts, Edward, March, 1876. 

 *Potts, Howard N., Jan. 1873. 

 *Potts, Joseph D., Nov. 1874. 

 Potts, Wm. (N.R.), Nov. 1860. 

 Potts, Wm. John, May, 1877. 

 *Poultney, Charles W., Oct. 1874. 

 Powel, John Hare (N.R.), May, 1858. 

 Powel, Robt. Hare, May, 1862. 

 Powel, Saml. (N.R.), July, 1847. 

 *Powers, Thos. H., Dec. 1873. 

 *Preston, Jonas, M.D., Jan. 1825. 



Rand, Theodore D., Sept. 1857. 

 ^Randolph, Evan, Feb. 1867. 

 ^Randolph, Richard, May, 1814. 

 Randolph, S. Emien, Dec. 1865. 

 "^Read, James, Dec. 1824. 

 *Reakirt, Edwin L., Jan. 1866. 

 Reakirt, Tryon, April, 1866. 

 *Redfield, John H. (corres.), Aug. 1846. 

 Reece, Davis (N.R.), Nov. 1860. 

 *Reed, Chas. D., Feb. 1870. 

 Reeve, Mark M., M.D., March, 1831. 

 ^Reeves, Samuel J., March, 1874. 

 ^Remington, Thos. P., May, 1853. 

 Rhoades, Edwin, M.D.,May, 1868. 

 *Rhoads, Beulah M., Dec. 1875. 

 *Rhoads, James M., March, 1876. 

 *Rhoads, Jos. R., May, 1866. 

 *Rice, Geo. (N.R.), May, 1870. 

 *Rice, John, April, 1861. 

 Richardson, Caleb, Dec. 1814. 

 Richardson, Joseph G., M.D., Nov, 1868. 

 Richardson, T. G., M.D. (N.R.),Jan. 1858. 

 *Ridings, James, Feb. 1876. 

 *Ridings, James H., Feb. 1876, 

 *Ri)aclt, Joseph H., Dec. 1875. 

 Robb, Richard R., Feb. 1867. 

 Roberts, Charles, March, 1876. 

 Roberts, George, M.D. (N.R.), July,1868. 

 Roberts, Louisa J., Sept. 1873. 

 ^Roberts, S. Raymond, June, 1866. 

 Roberts, Solomon W., April, 1860. 

 Robinson, John B., U. S. N., Oct. 1874. 

 *Robiuson, Thos. A., Sept. 1872. 




MEMBERS. 



13 



*Rockhill, Daniel H., May, 1867. 

 •^Rogers, Charles H., Jan. 1876. 

 Rogers, Fairman, Feb. 1854. 

 Rogers, Henry D. (N.R.), Nov. 1834. 

 Rogers, James B., M.D.,Oct. 1847. 

 Kogers, R. E., M.D., Feb. 1837. 

 ^Rogers, W. Frederick, March, 1855. 

 Rogers, Wm. B., Jr., Sept. 1870. 

 *Root, Thomas S., Feb. 1876. 

 Rosengarten, J. G., April, 1877. 

 *Rosengarteu, Saml. G. ,May, 1850. 

 *Rotch, Joseph, Feb. 1814. 

 *Rotr.h, Thomas, Feb. 1816. 

 Rothermel, John G., Oct. 1874. 

 Rothermel, Peter F., Feb. 1875. 

 Rothrock, .1. T., M.D., Dec. 1864. 

 *Ruschenberger, W. S. W., M.D. (cor- 



res.). May, 1832. 

 Rusk, Madison, Jane, 1855. 

 Rush, William H., M.D., June, 1873. 

 Rijan, Thomas, Jan. 1S36 

 Rylaud. K., M.D., Dec. 1857. 



*Sanderson, Ed. F. (N.R.), Sept. 1853. 

 *Sautee, Eugene J., M.D., Sept. 1875. 

 Sargeut, F. W., M.D. (N.R.),Sept. 1847. 

 Saurman, Bevj. F., M.D., Jau. 1863. 

 *Say, Benjamin, June, 1813. 

 *Say, Lucy W. (N.R.), Oct. 1841. 

 *iiaii, Thomas (founder), April, 1812. 

 Scattei'good, Geo. J., Aug. 1863. 

 *Scattergood, Thos., Jr., Nov. 1862. 

 *Schaffer, Chas., M.D., March, 1861. 

 *SchaflFer, Wm. L., Deo. 1873. 

 *Schafhirt, Fred. (N.R.), March, 1853. 

 Sehimmell, Jose 0., Oct. 1872. 

 *Schivehj, Geo. S., M.D., Dec. 1866. 

 Schmidt, Henry D. (N.R.), Feb. 1858. 

 Sohwarz, G , May, 1874. 

 *Scott, Thomas A., April. 1867. 

 Scribner, Frank L., Feb. 1877. 

 Scull, Gideon D. (N.R.), March, 1857. 

 *Seal, Thomas F. (N.R.), May, 1852. 

 Seller, Karl, M.D., Oct. 1874. 

 Seitzinger, F. S., April, 1859. 

 Sellers, Coleman, Dec. 1866. 

 Sellers, Wm., April, 1866. 



^Sergeant, J. Dickinson, Oct. 1847. 

 *Seybert, Henry, Dec. 1826. 

 Shallcross, John, May, 1874. 

 Sharpless, Casper IF., Jan. 1852. 

 *Sharpless, Charles S., Jan. 1876. 

 *Sheater, P. W. (N.R.), March, 1853. 

 Sheppard, Edwin, Dec. 1867. 

 *Sherman, Roger, June, 1868. 

 Sherman, W. L., M.D., Oct. 1851, 

 *5/i/n«, John, Jr. (founder), Jan. 1812. 

 Shoemaker, Benj. (N.R.), Sept. 1835. 

 Shoemaker, Benj. H., Oct. 1858. 

 Shoemaker, Geo. Y., Nov. 1867. 

 Sliober, Sam. L., July, 1866. 

 Shreve, Elizabeth, Feb. 1871. 

 Shryock, Alleu, Nov. 1871. 

 *Siegfried,C.A.,M.D.,U S.N.,Jan.l873. 

 Simes, J. H. C, M.D., April, 1876. 

 *Simmons, John (N.R.), July, 1835. 

 *Siuclair, John C, April, 1869. 

 Siniiickson, Chas., Jan. 1873. 

 *Siunott, Joseph F., Jan. 1868. 

 Slack, John H.,U.D. (N.R.),July, 1857. 

 *Slaymaker, Samuel E., March, 1866. 

 *Sloan, Andrew W., May, 1867. 

 Slocum, Charles E., M.D., June, 1876. 

 Smallwood, Hannah T., May, 1870. 

 *3iiiedley, Samuel L., Dec. 1873. 

 Smith, A. K., M.D. (N.R.), Nov. 1862, 

 Smith, Andrew H., M.D., Jan. 1863. 

 *Smith, Aubrey H., Sept. 1850. 

 *Smith, Benj. H., March, 1876. 

 *Smilh, Charles, March, 1867. 

 *Smith, Charles E., June, 1851. 

 * Smith, Charles W., Dec. 1815. 

 Smith, Daniel B., April, 1870. 

 Smith, Edgar F., April, 1877. 

 *Smith, George Washington, Oct. 1874. 

 Smith, Green (N.R.), Sept. 1870. 

 Smith, Henry H., M.D., April, 1859. 

 *Smith, Jacob R., Dec. 1815. 

 Smith, John B., April, 1834. 

 *Smith, Joseph P., Feb. 1826. 

 *Smith, Thomas, June, 1859. 

 Smith, Thos. Guilford (N.R.), Jan. 1866. 

 *Smith, Uselraa C, Aug. 1868. 

 *Smith, Walter B., Jau. 1S67. 




14 MEMBERS, 



Smyth, Francis Gardeu, M.D., Nov. 1872. *Tatnall, Edward, Jr., March, 1876. 

 Smyth, Samuel (N.R.), June, 1855. Taylor, Alfred B., Dec. 1865. 



Snelling, Samuel, Aug, 1836. ^Taylor, Charles, March, 1867. 



*Sommerville, Jas. M., M.D., Feb. 1858. Taylor, Edward, June, 1876. 

 *Sommerville, Maxwell, June, 1876. Taylor, Levi (N.R.), July, 1868. 

 Souder, Edmund A., Feb. 1857. '^Taylor, Rich. C. (corres.), July, 1832. 



*Spackman, George, M.D., July, 1825. Taylor, T. Clarkson,Ma.j, 1866. 

 *Spackman, Rev. H. S., July, 1855. Taylor, William J., Feb. 1857. 



* Sparks, Thomas, May, 1859. Thomas, Rev, C. F,, June, 1877. 



"^Speakman, John (founder), Jan, 1812. *Thoma3, Joseph, M.D., April, 1866. 

 Spear, J, C, M.D., U, S, N., Aug, 1869, Thompson, E. 0., July, 1876. 

 *Spencer, Charles, April, 1867. Thompson, George W., Feb. 1871. 



*Spencer, Howard, Feb. 1874. *Thompson, James C, Feb. 1865. 



*Starr, .lesse W., Feb. 1876. ^Thompson, J. Edgar, Feb. 1831. 



Starr, T. W., May, 1868. *Thompson, John, April, 1872. 



Steel, Francis P., June, 1868. *Thompson, John J., Nov. 1872. 



Steele, J. Button (N.R.), Feb. 1863. Thompson, Lewis, Feb. 1871. 

 Steinhaur, Rev. Dan., July, 1829. Thomson, Wm., M.D., June, 1868. 



Stellwageu, Thos. C, M.D., March, 1866. Tompkins, Myron, M.D. (N,R.), May, '58. 

 Stephens, Lemuel, May, 1858. Torr, Wm. S., Oct. 1860, 



Stephenson, B.F.,M.D,,U.S,N.,Nov.lS75.*Tower, C, May, 1873*. 

 *Stetler, John G., M.D., Feb. 1867. ^Townsend, John K., M.D., Sept. 1833. 



Stevenson, William C, Jr., Dec. 1875. *Towusend, Richard H., M.D., Jan. 1873. 

 *Stewardson, Thomas, M.D., April, 1859. *Trautwine, John C, April, 1852. 

 Stewardson, Thos., Jr., Sept. 1870. ^Trevor, John B. (N.R.), May, 1867. 



Stewart, William (N.R.), June, 1823. *Trimble, Anuou D., Jan. 1873. 

 Stewart, Wm. H. (N.R,), Oct, 1858. Troost, Geran/, M.D. (found.), .Ian. 1812. 



Stiles, G., M.D., April, 1872, Trotter, Newbold H., Dec, 1865, 



Stille, Henry M.,M.D.(N.R.), May, 1866, Trudeau, James, M.D, (N,R.), Nov. 1835. 

 StilU, Louis, S., M.D., Nov. 1871. Truman, Wm., M.D., May, 1868. 



Stimpson, Wm., M,D., April, 1858. *Tryon, Adeline S., Nov. 1874. 



Stockton, E. B., May, 1815. *Tryon, Edw. K., March, 1876. 



Stoddart, Jos. M., Jan. 1877. *Tryon, Geo. W., Jr., .June, 1859. 



Stoddart, J. Marshall, April 1877, Tuft, John B., M,D. (N.R,), May, 1831. 



Stokes, William xi., May, 1874. Turnbull, W. P., July, 1857. 



^Stouse, Joseph, M.D., May, 1812. *Turner, John, March, 1866. 



*Strecker, Herman, June, 1873. Turner, Thos. J., M.D. , U.S. N., Feb. 1854. 



Streets, Thos. H., M.D.,U.S.N.,Sept.l869. Turnpenny, Frederick, M.D., Nov. 1833. 

 Struthers, William, Feb. 1852. *Turnpenuy, Jos. C, Dec. 1866. 



Stvaim, William, Jan. 1872. *Tyler, Geo. F., April, 1867. 



*Swift, Joseph, May, 1853. Tyndale, Hector. Feb. 1869. 



Tyson, James, M.D., Aug. 1867. 

 Taggart, Wm. H., M.D., April, 1853. Tyson, Job R., May, 1854. 

 *Taitt, Mrs. Caroline G., March, 1875. 



*Taitt, John T., May, 1867. Uhler, Philip R. (N.R.), March, 1858. 



*Tasker, Stepheu P. M., Feb. 1868. Uhler, Wm. II., M.D., Jan. 1856. 



*Tasker, Thos. T., Jr., Feb. 1868. Ulke, Henry (N.R.), April, 1858. 




MEMBERS. 



15 



Vail, Hugh D., Nov. 1860. 

 Vanderkemp, John J., M.D. (N.R.), April 



1S54. 

 Vandyke, E. B., M.D., Sept. 1866. 

 Vanu.vem, Lardner, .Tune, 1815. 

 *Vaiighnn, John, March, 1822. 

 *Vaux, Mrs. E. H., Feb. 1867. 

 *Vaux; George, Dec. 1866. 

 *Vaux, Roberts, March, 1818. 

 *Vaux, William S., March, 1834. 



♦Wagner, Mary, Feb. 1877. 

 *Wac,ner, Tobias, Oct. 1818. 

 *Waguer, William, June, 1815. 

 Wahl, W. H., M.D., Nov. 1870. 

 Wales, Philip S., M.D., U.S.N.,Oct. 1868. 

 Walker, A. M. (N.R.), April, 1836. 

 *W,iln, S. Morris, June, 1867. 

 Walton, Joseph, April, 1866. 



* Warden, ]Villiam S., Dec. 1814. 

 Ware, Nathaniel A. (N.R.), Oct. 1826. 

 Warner, Benjamin, Feb. 1814. 



* Warner, Johti, Dec. 1860. 

 *Warner, Redwood F., Dec. 1864. 



Warren, David March, May, 1857. 

 Warren, Gen. G. K. (N.R.), Feb. 1857. 

 Waterhouse, John F., M.D., March, 1814. 

 *Watermau, Isaac S., Dec. 1867. 

 Watson, Gavin, M.D., April, 1840. 



* Watson, Joseph, May, 1816. 

 Waugh, W. F., M.D., Jan. 1876. 

 Weber, R. L., M.D., U.S.N., April, 1866. 

 *Weightman, John F.,M.D.,March,1874. 

 *Weightman, Wm., Sept. 1856. 

 *Wells, W. Lehmanu, M.D., June, 1863. 

 *Welsh, John, Dec. 1859. 



*Welsh, John, Jr., Dec. 1873. 

 *Welsh, Samuel, March, 1867. 

 *Welsh, William, May, 1853. 

 West, Hilborne, M.D,, Sept. 1855. 



* Wetherill, Charles, Nov, 1830. 

 *Wetherill,C. ^1/.,M.D. (N.R.),Feb. 1846. 



* Wetherill, J. Price, March, 1817. 

 Wetherill, J. Price, March, 1871. 

 Wetherill, Samuel (N.R.), Nov. 1843. 

 *Wetherill, William, Feb. 1824. 

 Wharton, Henry, Feb. 1858. 



*Wharton, .Joseph, July, 1864. 

 ,Whartou, William, Jr., June, 1876, 

 *Wheatley, Chas. M., March, 1850. 

 *Wheeler, Charles, April, 1867. 

 *Whelen, Alfred, M.D., Jan. 1876. 

 *Wheleu, Charles S., Jan. 1874. 

 *Whelen, Edward S., June, 1853. 

 *Whelen, Jas. N,, May, 1867. 

 *Whelen, Wm. A., May, 1867. 

 Whelpley,JamesD.('N.R.), March, 1838 

 *Whildin, Alex., May, 1867. 

 *White, George Geny, Nov. 1874. 

 *White, S. S., D.D.S,, Nov. 1859, 



* White, Wm. /?., Feb. 1866. 

 nVhite, Wm, R., Jr., May, 1867. 

 Whitman, H, F,, Oct. 1876, 

 Whitman, Wvi. E., Feb. 1848. 



^Whitneij, Asa, May, 1867. 

 *Whitney, George, May, 1867. 

 *Whitney, Jas. S., Dec. 1858. 

 *Whitney, John R., May, 1867. 

 Wilcocks, Alex., M.D., April, 1857. 

 Willard, Dwight D., April, 1870. 

 Willcox, Joseph, Dec. 1867. 

 Williams, Edward H., June, 1871. 

 *Williams, Henry J., April, 1819. 

 Williams, Isaac S., Dec. 1874. 

 Williams, Samuel H., May, 1859. 

 *Williamson, Chaa. Sumner, May, 1875. 

 *Williamson, I, V., April, 1867, 

 Williamson, Passmore, April, 1872. 

 Williamson, Wm. H., M.D,, May, 1875. 

 Wilson, Alexander, June, 1813. 

 Wilson, Franklin S., May, 1867. 

 *Wilson, .Toseph,M.D.,U.S.N., Jan. 1856. 

 Wilson, Pierce B. (N.R.), Oct. 1858. 

 *Wilson, Rathmell, March, 1876. 



* Wilson, Thos. B., M.D,, June, 1832. 



* Wilson, Wm. S., June, 1848. 

 "^Wihtach, Wm. P., July, 1860. 

 *Wilt, Charles, March, 1876. 

 *Windrim, James H., Feb. 1876. 

 *Winsor, Henry, Aug. 1865, 

 *Wistar, Isaac J., March, 1874, 

 Wistar, Mifflin, M.D., June, 1839. 



* Wistar, Richard, Jan. 1831, 

 *Wister, Caspar, M.D., June, 1851. 




16 



MEMBERS. 



*Wister, John, April, 1876. 

 Wister, Owen J., M.D., June, 1859. 

 Withrow, I. L. (N. R.), April, 1869. 

 Wolgamuth, Franna F., Feb. 1848. 

 *Wood, Edw. R., Feb. 1866. 

 *Woofl, George, Dec. 1875. 

 *Wood, Geo. B.,M.D., Feb. 1825. 

 *Wood, Geo. K., M.D. (N.R.), Jan. 1862. 

 *Wood, Horatio G., Jr., M.D., June, 1864. 

 Wood, Richard, Sept. 1860. 

 * Wood, Richard D., May, 1853. 

 *Wood, Robert, Feb. 1876. 

 *Wood, Stuart, March, 1876. 

 Wood, Wm. W. (N.R.), .Jan. 1825. 

 Woodhouse, Sam. W., M.D. Nov. 1845. 

 Woodward, Geo. W. (N.R.), Jan. 1866. 

 Woodward.J. J.,M.D.,U.S.A.,Juue,1855 

 Woolletis, Jos., M.D., June, 1815. 

 Workman, H. Weir, Sept. 1870. 



*Wright, Edward, May, 1873. 

 Wright, George, Capt. U. S. A., Feb. 1870. 

 Wright, George A., June, 1876. 

 *Wright, James A., May, 1867. 

 Wright, Joseph C, Oct. 1873. 

 Wurts, C S., M.D., .July, 1857. 

 Wjthes, Rev. Jus. H. (N.R.), Nov. 1853. 



*Xantus, John Louis (de Vesey), (N.R.), 

 Dec. 1856. 



Yarrow, Harry C, M.D. .U.S.A., May, '63. 

 Young, Charles A., Jan. 1875. 



Zantzinger, George, Sept. 1835. 

 *Zantzinger, Wm. S., M.D. (N.R.), Oct. 

 . 1840. 



Zentmayer, .Joseph, May, 1868. 

 Ziegler, George J., M.D., Nov. 1856. 



SUMMARY. 



Contributing members ....... 297 



Non-resident' "....... 125 



Exempt from dues by commutation ; or life members^ . 442 



Existing members ..... 864 



Deceased members ..... 345 



' A member who moves his domicil to any locality distant more than thirty 

 miles from the Academy may be released Irom the payment of the stated dues 

 on application to the treasurer {Bij-Laws, Art. V. Chapter IX.). Members 

 exempted from the payment of dues on this account are termed "non-resident." 



2 A member who has commuted, or expunged the semi-annual claim of the 

 Academy against him during life for stated contributions by the payment of one 

 sum to the "permanent fund" (Bg- Laws, Art. III. Chapter IX.), becomes con- 

 ventionally distinguished by the title of "life member" on the treasurer's books 

 and on this list. The charter of the Academy provides that " the Society shall 

 consist of members and correspondents'" exclusively. For this reason those who 

 belong to it cannot lawfully assume in this connection any other title, such as 

 "life member," or " corresponding member," or "non-resident member." 




CORRESPONDE^TS. 



Aall, Nicolai, Christiania, Sweden, 1846. 



Abadie, E. H., M.D., U. S. A., 1836. 



Abadie, Pedro, Lima, Peru, 1821. 



Adams, Arthur, London, 1867. 



Adams, Charles B., Amherst, Mass., 1846. 



Adams, Rev. E. E., Oxford, Delaware County, Pennsylvania, 1867. 



Adams, Henry, London, 1867. 



Adamsou, J. C.M.D., 1856. 



Adrian, Robert, LL.D., 1815, 



Agardh, Professor C. A., Lund, Sweden, 1834. 



Agassiz, Alex. E. R., Cambridge, Mass., 1864. 



Agassiz, Professor Louis, Cambridge, Mass., 1836. 



Alcantara, Dom Pedro D', Emperor of Brazil, 1876. 



Alger, Francis, Boston, 1841. 



Anderson, Rev. M. B., LL.D., Rochester, New York, 1866. 



Angas, George French, Port Jackson, 1867- 



Anthony, John Gould, Cambridge, Mass. 1833. 



Antisell, Thomas, M.D., New York, 1852. 



Anton, Professor Frak., Halle, Germany, 1840. 



Arago, M., Paris, 1843. 



Arriago, Jose Joaquin, Mexico, 1874. 



Auber, Pedro AUessandro, 1835. 



Audouin, J. Victor, M.D,, Paris, 1821. 



Audubon, John James, New York, 1831. 



Audubon, John W., New York, 1854. 



Audubon, Victor G., New York, 1845. 



Arogadro, Amadeo, Turin, 1844. 



Bachman, Rev. John, D.D., Charleston, South Carolina, 1832. 

 Bachmann, Professor Charles Frederick, Jena, Germany, 1840. 

 Bailey, Professor J. W., West Point, 1841. 

 Baird, W. M., Reading, Pennsylvania, 1846. 

 Baldicin, William, M.D., Wilmington. Delaware, 1817. 

 Balfour, J. Hutton, M.D., Glasgow, Scotland, 1842. 

 Barabino, Joseph, New Orleans, 1831. 

 2 




18 CORRESPOXDEXTS. 



Barcena, Dr. Mariano, Mexico, 1874. 



Barraode, Joachim, Prague, 1859. 



Barratt, John P., M.D., Barrattsville, South Carolina, 1847 



Barratt, Joseph, LL.D., Middleton, Connecticut, 1837 



Barry, Rev. A. C, Racine, Wisconsin, 1853. 



Bartlett, John R., New York, 1850. 



Bartram, William, Kingsessing, Pennsylvania, 1812. 



Baudon, Auguste, M.D., Beauvais, France, 1867. 



Baxter, Dr. J. H., U. S. A., Washington, D. C, 1866. 



Beaumont, Elie de, Paris, 1833. 



Becke, Sir Henry Thomas de la, London, 1832. 



Beck, Lewis C, New Brunswick, New Jersey, 1833. 



Beck, T. Romeyn, M.D., Albany, New York, 1816. 



Bedwell, Thomas, Jr., Rio Janeiro, 1812. 



Beebe, Edw. H., Galena, 111., 1863. 



Beelen, A., Pittsburg, Pa., 1812. 



Belisario, Dr. John, Sydney, N. S. W., 1875. 



Bell, Thomas, London, 1834. 



Bellingeri, M., Turin, Italy, 1826. 



Belot, Jule Henri, Paris, 1836. 



Beneke, Professor F. W., M.D., Hesse Cassel, 1858. 



Benoit, Luigi, Messina, 1867. 



Benson, H., Cheltenham, Eng., 1867. 



Berg, Rev. Dr. Jos. F., Rutgers College, New Jersey, 1868. 



Bernardi, Chev. A. C, Paris, 1860. 



Berthoud, E. S., Boulder City, Colorado, 1866. 



Berzelius, Professor J. Jacob, Stockholm, 1826. 



Best, Robert, Lexington, Kentucky, 1823. 



Betton, Samuel, M.P., Germantown, 1815. 



Beudant, F. S., Paris, 1821. 



Bey, Clot, M.D., Cairo, Egypt, 1845. 



Bickley, Robert, Pennsylvania, 1816. 



Bigsby, John J., M.D., Newark-on-Trent, England, 1820. 



Bingham, Wm. T., Boston, Massachusetts, 1868. 



Binney, Amos, M.D., Boston, 1836. 



Bishop, Nathaniel H., Princeton, N. J., 1869. 



Blackmore, William, London, 1869. 



Blainville, H. Ducrotay de, Paris, 1817. 



Blake, Rev. Joseph, Gilmanton, New Hampshire, 1866. 



Blake, W. P., Oakland, Ct., 1856. 



Blauchard, M. Emile, Paris, 1848. 



Bland, Thomas, New York, 1858. 



Blanding, Shubel, M.D., South Carolina, 1836. 



Blanding, William, M.D., Providence, R. I., 1831. 



Blanding, William, South Carolina, 1836. 



Blyth, Edward, Calcutta, 1848. 



Boeck, Prof. Carl Wilhelm, Christiauia, Norway, 1870. 




CORRESPONDENTS. 19 



Boivin, Am., Paris, 18(34. 



Bonelli, Professor Francisro, Turin, 1818. 



Booth, Francis, M.D., London, 1862. 



Borie, A. Amicus, Paris, 1821. 



Boudin, J. C. M., M.D., Versailles, France, 1845. 



Bone, Ami, Paris, 1830. 



Bourguignat, M. J. R., Paris, 1867. 



Bourne, W. Oland, New York, 1844. 



Boynton, Dr. John F., New York City, N. Y., 1868. 



Bradbury, John, London, 1817. 



Bradley, Prof. Frank H., Knoxville, Tennessee, 1870. 



Brady, George Stewardson, Sunderland, England, 1871. 



Braudegee, Towusend S., Cafiou City, Colorado, 1873. 



Brantz, Lewis, Baltimore, Maryland, 1819. 



Breneman, A. A., Lancaster County, Pennsylvania, 1868. 



Brewer, Thomas M., M.D., Boston, 1841. 



Brewer, Wm, H., New Haven, Conn., 1867. 



Brewster, David, LL.D., Edinburgh, 1822. 



Brevoort, .Jaraes Carson, Brooklyn, New York, 1847. 



Broderip, William J., London, 1836. 



Bromfield, William A., M.D., Isle of Wight, 1847. 



Brongniart, Adolph T., M.D., Paris, 1821. 



Brongniart, Alexandre, Paris, 1812. 



Brown, Benjamin B., St. Louis, Missouri, 1837. 



Brown, Richard, Sydney, Cape Breton, 1846. 



Brown, Samuel, M.D., Alabama, 1818. 



Bruce, Archibald, M.D., New York, 1812. 



Briicke, Professor E., Vienna, 1854. 



Brunei, Rev. Ovide, Quebec, 1865. 



Bryan, Col. T. M., Vincenttown, N. J., 1875. 



Brydges, Sir Harford J. J., Bart., England, 1848. 



Buck, Leopold von, Berlin, 1840. 



Buck, Charles Elton, New York, 1866. 



Buckland, Rev. William, D.D., Oxford, England. 



Buckley, S. B., Austin, Texas, 1S71. 



Bunbury, Charles J. F., London, 1859. 



Burchell, William J., London, 1835. 



Burnett, Waldo J., }>l.D., Boston. 1854. 



Burr, John H., M.D., Chiloe, Chili, 1829. 



Busch, G. von dem, M.D., Bremen, 1867. 



Bustamente, Jose Maria, Mexico, 1828. 



Cailliaud, Fred., Nantes, 1867. 



Caligny, M. Le Mis de, France, 1866. 



Campbell, H. Frazer, M.D., Augusta, Georgia, 1858. 



Cam]>er, Adrian, Holland, 1821. 



Cantor, Theodore, M.D., Singapore, India, 1848. 




20 CORRESPOXDEXTS. 



Capellini, Giovanni, Bologna, 1863. 

 Carbonell, Celedonio, Porto Rico, 1859. 

 Carling, E. B.,Col. U. S. A., 1869. 

 Carothers, A. E., M.D., Saltillo, Mexico, 1874. 

 Carpenter, P. P., Montreal, C. E., 1862. 

 Carpenter, Wm. B., M.D., London, 1860. 

 Carpenter, Wm. M., M.D., Louisiana, 1840. 

 Carr, Robert, Kingsessing, Pennsylvania, 1816. 

 Carte, Alexander, Dublin, 1869. 

 Carter, Dr. J. Van A., U. S. Army, 1871. 

 Carter, Samuel R., Paris Hill, Oxford County, Maine, 1866. 

 * Carus, Professor Charles G., M.D., Dresden, 1837. 

 Casanova, J. S., M.D., Paris, 1834. 

 Cass, Lewis, Detroit, 1831. 

 Castellani, Alessandro, Rome, 1876. 

 Castillo, Don Antonio del, Mexico, 1874. 

 Cautley, Major Proby T., London, 1836. 

 Cavada, F. F., U. S. Consul, Trinidad, 1867. 

 Chapman, A. W., M.D., Florida, 1861. 



Chapman, Isaac, M.D., Bucks County, Pennsylvania, 1813. 

 Charlesworth, Edward, London, 1841. 

 Chenu, J. C, Paris, 1867. 

 Chevreul, E. M., Paris, 1845. 

 Children, J. G., London, 1836. 

 Chipman, Isaac L., Horton, Nova Scotia, 1847. 

 Chittenden, Hon. L. E., New York, 1863. 

 Chitty, Hon. Edw., Kingston, Jamaica, 1867. 

 Cist, Jacob, Wilkesbarre, Pennsylvania, 1816. 

 Claparede, Edw., Geneva, 1859. 

 Clapp, Asahel, M.D., New Albany, Indiana, 1837. 

 Clark, Prof. .Tames H., Centre County, Pennsylvania, 1868. 

 Clark, Lewis Meriwether, St. Louis, Missouri, 1837. 

 Clay, J. Randolph, London, 1839. 

 Clemens, Brackenridge, M.D., Easton, Pa., 1859. 

 Clendon, Major George, Jr., Glenn's Falls, New York, 1868. 

 Cleveland, Parker, LL.D., Bowdoin College, Maine, 1812. 

 Clifford, John D., Lexington, Kentucky, 1816. 

 ainton, De Witt, LL.D., New York, 1815. 

 Clinton, Geo. W., Buffalo, 1866. 

 Cloquet, Jules, Paris, 1816. 

 Cloquet, Jules (lejeune), Paris, 1819. 

 Cobb, J., M.D., Kentucky, 1848. 

 Cobbold, T. Spencer, M.D., London, 1868. 

 Cocchi, Prof. Igino, Florence, Italy, 1870. 

 Cogswell, Joseph H., New York, 1816. 

 Cohen, J. J., M.D., Baltimore, Maryland, 1833. 

 ■ Colla, Professor Luigi, Turin, 1822. 




CORRESPONDENTS. 21 



Collier, D. C, Central City, Colorado, 1866. 



Collins, Baron de, Havana, Cuba, 1818. 



Combe, George, Edinburgh, 1838. 



Conybeare, William D., London, 1836. 



Conyngham, R'dmond, Lancaster County, Pennsylvania, 1842. 



Cook, George H., New Brunswick, New Jersey, 1869. 



Cook, M. C, London, 1874. 



Cooper, J. Gr., M.D., San Francisco, Cal., 1867. 



Cooper, Thomas, M.I)., LL.D., Columbia, South Carolina, 1812. 



Cooper, William, New York, 1828. 



Cornay, J. C, Paris, 1861. 



Corson, Dr. Jos. K., U. S. A., 1871. 



Couch, D. N., U. S. A., 1853. 



Coues, Elliott, M.D., U. S. Army, Washington, D. C, 1861 



Couper, J. Hamilton, Darien, Georgia, 1842. 



Coutkouy, Joseph P., Boston, 1837. 



Coutiuho, J. M. da Silva, Rio de Janeiro, 1877. 



Cowan, Hon. Edgar, Pennsylvania, 1861. 



Cowan, Frank, Washington City, 1866. 



Cox, J. C, Sydney, New South Wales, 1867. 



Craft, James S., Pittsburg, Pennsylvania, 1831. 



Cramer, Charles, St. Petersburg, Russia, 1834. 



Craven, J. J., M.D., U. S. A., 1863. 



Credner, Herman, New York, 1866. 



Croom, H. P., Tallahasse, Florida, 1835. 



Crosse, H. M., Paris, 1867. 



Curtis, John, London, 1836. 



Curtis, F., M.D., U. S. A., 1869. 



Ctivier, Baron George, Paris, 1818. 



Dall, Wm. H., Washington, D. C, 1869. 



Dalton, Henry G., M.D., Demarara, 1852. 



Dalton, John C. W., M.D., New York, 1854. 



Dana, James D., New Haven, Connecticut, 1836. 



Dana, Samuel L., Cambridge, Massachusetts, 1815. 



Daniel, Wm. F., M.D., London, 1852. 



Darlington, William, M.D., West Chester, Pennsylvania, 1818. 



Darwin, Chas., F.R.S., F.G.S., London, 1860. 



Davis, Edwin Hamilton, M.D., Chilicothe, Ohio, 1847. 



Davis, Hon. Henry Winter, Baltimore, 1863. 



Davis, J. Bernard, England, 1856. 



Davis, John, Boston, 1812. 



Dawson, J. W., Pictou, Nova Scotia, 1846. , 



Deabbate, Gaspard, Turin, 1823. 



Dean, John,M.D., Boston, 1862. 



Dearing, W. E., M.D., Augusta, Georgia, 1854. 



Dwcaisue, Prof. Jos., Paris, 1862. 




C0RRESP0XDEXT5. 



De Camp, Win. H., M.D., Grand Rapids, Mich., 1859. 



De Candolle, Alphouse, Geneva, 1853. 



De Candolle, Auguste P., Geneva, 1836. 



Dekay, James E., M.D., New York, 1821. 



Delajield, Major Joseph, New York, 1846. 



Benny, Henry, Leeds, England, 1842. 



De Rivero, Mariano, Arequipa, Peru, 1821. 



Deshayes, G. P., Paris, 1832. 



Desmarest, Anselme Gaetan, Paris, 1817. 



Desmoulins, Chns., Bordeaux, 1859. 



Desor, Prof. Edward, Neuchatel, 1877. 



Dewey, Rev. Chester, Rochester, N. Y., 1832. 



Dewey, Henry B., Para, Brazil, 1850. 



Diesing, C. M., M.D., Vienna, Austria, 1851. 



Dietz, Andrew R., St. Thomas, West Indies, 1839. 



Dillwyn, Lewis W., Pennllergare, Wales, 1815. 



Doane, George W., D.D., New Jersey, 1848. 



Do Castello de Paiva, Baron, Lisbon, 1867. 



Doddridge, C, M.D., Brook C. H., Virginia, 1812. 



Doebereiner, Professor Johannes W., Jena, Austria, 1830. 



D'OIeveira, D. Baptista, Rio de Janerio, 1855. 



D'Orbigny, M. Alcide, Paris, 1834. 



Doremus, R. Ogden, M.D., New York, 1855. 



Dowler, Bennet, M.D., New Orleans, 1848. 



Drake, Daniel, M.D., Cincinniiti, Ohio, 1812. 



Draper, John W., M.D., New York, 1836. 



Drapier, A., Brussels, 1824. 



Dresser, H. E., London, 1867. 



Drouet, Henri, Troyes, 1867. 



Du Bois, Prof. Alfred, Laurette, Park Co., Colorado, 1866. 



Ducatel, Julius F., M.D., Baltimore, Maryland, 1812. 



Duclos, M., Paris, 1833. 



Dum^ril, Constant, Paris, 1818. 



Duncan, Thomas, Rappahannock, Virginia, 1816. 



Dunker, Professor Wm., Marburg, Cassel, 1859. 



Dupont, Alfred, Wilmington, Delaware, 1821. 



Durham, Geo. J., Austin, Texas, 1867. 



Durieu de Maisonneuve, Prof., Bordeaux, 1865. 



Duvignan, M., Paris, 1820. 



Eandi, Chev. A. M., Vassali, Turin, 1822. 



Earle, John Milton, Worcester, Massachusetts, 1833. 



Eaton, Amos, Troy, New York, 1829. 



Eaton, H. Hulbert, M.D., Lexington, Kentucky, 1831. 



Edwards, Alphonse Milne, Paris, France, 1808. 



Edwards, M. Milne, Paris, 1832. 



Edwards, Wm. H., New York, 1861. 




CORRESPONDENTS. 2,'3 



Ehrenberg, Christinn G., M.D., Berlin, 1848. 



Eights, James, M.D., Albany, New York, 1837. 



Elliott, Andrew, Peunsylvania, 1812. 



Elliott, Stephen, CliarleBtou, S. C, ISl.'i. 



Elliott, Rev. Stephen, Savanuab, Georgia, 1856. 



Ellis, W. Cox, Muncy, Pennsylvauia, 1828. 



Emerson, Gteorge B., Boston, 1840. 



Emmons, Ebenezer, M.D., Albany, New York, 1840. 



Enderlin, Charles, M.D., New York, 1854. 



Eiigelniaun, George, M.D., St. Louis, Missouri, 1840. 



Escher, Uenri, Switzerland, 1818. 



Eschricht, Professor Daniel F., M.D., Copenhagen, 1848. 



Esenbeck, Professor C. G. Nees von, Bonn, 1836. 



Ettingshausen, Constantine von, 1859. 



Evans, John, M.D., New Harmony, Indiana, 1850. 



Eyton, Thomas C, Shropshire, Ilngland, 1846. 



Falconer, Hugh, M.D., London, 1836, 



Faraday, Prof. Michael, Loudon, 1847. 



Faucker, Sylvanus, Conuecticut, 1815. 



Favre, Prof. Alphonse, Geneva, 1877- 



Fayrer, J., M.D., Calcutta, 1874. 



Ftatherstonhaugh, G. W., Havre, 1830. 



Fendler, Augustus, Allentown, Maryland, 1868. 



Ferris, Z., Wilmington, Delaware, 1815. 



F^russac, Baron d' Audehard de, Paris, 1816. 



Fischer, Paul, M.D., Paris, 1867. 



Fitton, Willinjn Henry, M.D., London, 1837. 



Fitzinger, Professor Leopold, Vienna, 1832. 



Flint, Austin, M.D., New York, 1876. 



Flourens, P., Paris, 1859. 



Flower, Prof. Wm. Henry, F.R.S., London, 1875. 



Foote, John P., Cincinnati, Ohio, 1824. 



Ford, Henry A., Glasstown, Gaboon River, Liberia, 1852. 



Forster, Thomas, M.D., London, 1816. 



Foster, J. W., Lake Superior, 1852. 



Fowler, Samuel, M.D., Franklin, New Jersey, 1823. 



Fox, Rev. Charles. Michigan, 1853. 



Francis, .Tohn W., New York, 1816. 



Frauenfeld, Geo. Ritter von, Vienna, 1859. 



Frazer, Dr. Thos. R., Edinburg, 1873. 



Fremont, .Tohn Charles, 1848. 



French, Wm. H., White Haven, Luzerne Co., Pa., 1866 



Frick, Henry, Northumberland, Peunsylvania, 1831. 



Ftissel, Edivin, M.D., Indianapolis, Indiana, 1840. 



Gadoliu, Gen. A., St. Petersburg, 1877. 

 Galbraith, John, Venango, Pennsylvania, 1831. 




24 



CORRESPOXDEXTS. 



Galleolti, He.nrij, Brus'-els, 1842. 



Gdndara, Don Alvaro de la, Madrid, 187(3. 



Garcia, Jose Ant. G. y, Lima, Peru, 1855. 



Garcia, Manuel de la, Madrid, 1817. 



Garrett, Andrew, Huaheine, Society Islands, 1873. 



Gassies, J. B., Bordeaux, 1867. 



Gaussoin, Eugene, Baltimore, Maryland, 1867, 



Gay, Jacques, Paris, 1862. 



Geddings, E., M.D.. Charleston, South Carolina, 1832. 



Germar, Professor Ernst Friedrich, Halle, Saxony, 1828. 



Gerolt, Baron von, Washington, 1846. 



Gesner, Abraham, M.D., St. Johns, New Brunswick, 1840. 



Glbbes, Lewis R., M.D.-, Charleston, South Carolina, 1S44. 



Gibbes, Robert W., M.D., Columbia, South Carolina, 1845. 



Gibbn, George, New York, 1815. 



Gill, Prof. Theodore, Washington, D. C, 1860. 



Gilliss, J. M., U. S. N., Washington City, 1848. 



Gilmer, Francis W., Albemarle County, Virginia, 1815. 



Gilmore, Robert, Baltimore, Maryland, 1819. 



Girard, Charles, M.D., Paris, 1851. 



Giraud, Jacob P., Jr., New York, 1842. 



Gliddon, George R., 1841. 



Goheen, S. M. E , M.D., Columbia, Pennsylvania, 1840. 



Goldfuss, Professor August, M.D., Bonn, Germany, 1832. 



Goodsir, John D., Edinburgh, 1849. 



Gorham, John, M.D., Harvard University, 1816. 



Gould, Augustus ^.,M.D., Boston, 1840. 



Gould, John, London, 1843. 



Gourlie, VViJliam, Jr., Glasgow, 1846. 



Graham, Colonel J. D., U. S. Topog. Eng., 1841. 



Grant, Jas. A., M.D., Canada, 1863. 



Grateloup, J/., M.D., Bordeaux, 1836. 



Gray, Asa, M.D., Cambridge, Massachusetts, 1836. 



Gray, C. C, M.D., U. S. A., 1866. 



Gray, George Robert, London, 1846. 



Gray, John Edward, LL.D., London, 1823. 



Gray, Robert, Glasgow, Scotland, 1866. 



Green, Benjamin D., M.D., Boston, 1831. 



Green, John W., M.D., New York, 1856. 



Griffith, Edward, London, 1828. 



Griffith, Thomas, M.D., Columbia, Pennsylvania, 1815. . 



Griscom, John, LL.D., Burlington, New Jersey, 1814. 



Grote, Augustus R., New York, 1865. 



Groth, Prof. Paul, Strasbourg, 1876. 



Gruber, Prof. Wentzel, St. Petersburg, 1876. 



Guckerl, Frank, Ciudad Bolivar, Venezuela, 1873. 



Guenther, Dr. Albert, Loudon, 1875. 




CORRESPONDENTS. 25 



Gu^rin-M^nevilh, F. E., Paris, 18(51. 



Guillemard, John, London, 1817. 



Gttmmere, John, Burlington, New Jersey, 1816. 



Gundlach, J., M.D., Havana, 18()7. 



Gurney, John Henry, Norfolk, England, 1867. 



Guyot, Professor Arnold, Princeton, N. J., 1858. 



Hadley, James, M.D., Fairfield, Vew York, 1828. 



Haidinger, W. C, Vienna, 1851. 



Haight, Richard K., New York, 1844. 



Haines, John S., Northumberland, Pennsylvania, 1814. 



Hall, James, Albany, New York, 1843. 



Hamilton, W. J., London, 1859. 



Hamlin, Dr. A. C, Bangor, Me., 1864. 



Hammond, Ogden, Charleston, South Carolina, 1847. 



Hammond, W. A., M.D., New York, 1853. 



Hancock, Albany, New Castle-upou-Tyne, England, 1869. 



Hanley, Sylvanus, London, 1867. ^ 



Harden, John M. B., M.D., Liberty County, Georgia, 1846. 



Harney, Wm. S., U. S. A., 1857. 



Harris, Thaddeus IF., M.D., Milton, Massachusetts, 1826. 



Hartlaub, G., M.D., Bremen, 1852. 



Hartman, W. D., M.D., West Chester, Pennsylvania, 1853. 



Hassenfratz, J. H., Paris, 1819. 



Hauer, Baron von, Vienna, 1851. 



Haughton, Rev. Samuel, Dublin, Ireland, 1868. 



Hauxwell, John, Pebas, Equador, 1871. 



Hauy, L'Ahb^, Paris, 1812. 



Hnyden, Horace H., Baltimore, Maryland, 1815. 



Hayes, John Lord, Portsmouth, New Hampshire, 1814. 



Hazlewood, George, London, 1821. 



Hector, Dr. James, New Zealand, 1876. 



Heer, Prof. Oswald, Zurich, 1859. 



Henderson, Joseph, M.D., Mifflin County, Pennsylvania, 1838. 



Henle, Dr. J., Gottingen, 1873. 



Henry, .Joseph, LL.D., Washington City, 1843. 



Henry, T. Charlton, M.D., U. S. A., 1850. 



Herbert, Rev. William, LL.D., Manchester, England, 1843. 



Herrick, Edward C, New Haven, 1836. 



Herschel, Sir J. F. W., Bart., London, 1847. 



Hidalgo, J. Gonzales, Madrid, 1867. 



Hildreth, Samuel P., M.D., Marietta, Ohio, 1832. 



Hitchcock, Edward, LL.D., Amherst, Massachusetts, 1832. 



Hochstetter, Ferdinand von, Vienna, 1877. 



Hodgkin, Thomas, M.D., London, 1837. 



Hodgson, W. B., Savanah, Georgia, 1843. 



Hogg, Jabez, F.L.S., 1873. 




26 CORRESPONDENTS. 



Holbrook, John Edwirds, M.D., Charleston, South Carolina, 1832. 



HoUenbush, H. W., Reading, Penna., 1874. 



Holmes, Ezehiel, M.D., Waterville College, Maine, 1826. 



Holmes, Francis S., Charleston, South Carolina, 1848. 



Holmes, Prof. Oliver Wendell, Boston, 1868. 



Holmes, W. H., U. S. Geo. Sarv., 1876. 



Hooker, Dr. J. Dalton, Kew. England, 1873. 



Hooker, Sir William Jackson, London, 1821. 



Hooper, Robert, M.D., London, 1834. 



Homes, Moriz, M.D., Vienna, 1859. 



Horsefield, S. C. C, India, 1830. 



Horsjield, Thomas, M.D., London, 1826. 



Hosack, DavUl, M.D., New York, 1815. 



Hough, Franklin B., M.D., Sommerville, New York, 1851. 



Houghton, Douglass, M.D., Detroit, 1840. 



Hoy, Philo R., M.D., Racine, Wisconsin, 1853. 



Hubbard, Oliver P., M.D., Dartmouth College, New Hampshire, 1841. 



Hitmholdt, Baron Alexander von, Berlin, 1843. 



Hunt, David, M.D., Northampton, Massachusetts, 1815. 



Hurry, William Cobb, Calcutta, 1882. 



Huxley, Prof. T. H., F.R.S., London, 1859. 



Hyatt, Alpheus, Salem, Mass., 1867. 



Hyrtl, Professor Joseph, Vienna, 1851. 



Ives, Ansel W., M.D., New York, 1817. 



Jackson, Charles T., M.D., Boston, Massachusetts, 1833. 



Jackson, J. B. S., M.D., Boston, Massachusetts, 1846. 



Jackson, Robert M. S., M.D., Indiana County, Pennsylvania, 1848. 



Jackson, William, Chester County, Pennsylvania, 1814. 



Jdger, Prof. Geo. F., Stuttgart, 1859. 



James, Edwin, M.D., U. S. A., 1823. 



James, William, Halifax, Virginia, 1816. 



.Jameson, Robert, Edinburgh, 1822. 



Jameson, William, M.D., Quito, Ecuador, 1836. 



Jansen, Joseph, London, 1816. 



Jardien, Ambrose, Paris, 1851. 



Jarvis, Rev. T. Farmer, D.D., Middletown, Connecticut, 1837. 



Jay, John C, M.D., Mamaroneck, West Chester Co., N. Y., 1835. 



Jefferson, Thomas, LL.D., Virginia, 1818. 



Jeffreys, J. Gwynn, London, 18G7. 



Jenkins, John Carmichael, M.D., Mississippi, 1836. 



.Terdon, T. C, M.D., Madras, India, 1867. 



Joaquin, Don Jose Arriago, Mexico, 1874. 



.Tohnson, Wesley, M.D., Liberia, Africa, 1841. 



Johnston, George, M.D., Berwick-on-Tweed, 1841. 



Johnston, James F. W., Durham, England, 1838. 




CORRESPONDENTS. 27 



JoliDStou, John, Middletowu, Connecticut, 1843. 



Jolis, Anguste le, Cherbourg, France, 1858. 



Jones, John Coffin, California, 1838. 



Jones, Jos., M.D., Nashville, Tenu., 1858. 



Jones, Thos. Rupert, 1864. 



Jones, Thos. Rymer, F.R.S., London, 1859. 



Jones, William, Calcutta, 1817. 



.Jones, Dr. William H., U. S. N., 1873. 



Jones, William L., M.D., Riceboro, Georgia, 1848. 



Jussieu, Antoine Laurent de, Paris, 1818. 



Kaup, Professor Jean J., Darmstadt, 1848. 

 Keech, Alexander, A.F.C., Rappahannock, Virginia, 1^16. 

 Kennedji, H. W., M.D., Buenos Ayres, 1852. 

 Kerr, Prof. W. C, Raleigh, North Carolina, 1871. 

 Kesteloot, Professor, Ghent, 1843. 



,King, Alfred T,, M.D., Greensburg, Pennsylvania, 1844. 

 King, Henry, M.D., St. Louis, Missouri, 1840. 

 Kingshorough, Right Hon. Lord, London, 1837. 

 Kippist, Richard, London, 1846. 

 Kirkwood, Daniel, Bloomington, Ind., 1854. 

 Kirtland, J. P., M.D., Cleveland, Ohio, 1848. 

 Kite, Thos., Cincinnati, Ohio, 1865. 

 Knieskern, P. D., M.D., N. Jersey, 1865. 

 Kolliker, A., Wnrzburg, 1869. 

 Kokscharow, Nikolai V., St. Petersburg, 1877. 

 Koninck, L. de, Brussels, 1877. 

 Korthals, P. W., M.D., Leyden, 1847. 

 Kotschubey, P. A. von, St. Petersburgh, 1877. 

 Krauss, Prof. F., Stuttgard, 1859. 

 Kuster, H. C, Cassel, 1867. 



Lachmann, Johannes, Geneva, 1862. 



Lacordaire, Th., Liege, 1848. 



Lagos, Manuel Fereira, Rio .Janerio, 1849. 



Lakanal, Count, Paris, 1815. 



Lamarck, Chev. de, Paris, 1818. 



Laporte, Count de Castlenau, Paris, 1837. 



Laporte, J. L., Bordeaux, 1832. 



Latimer, Dr. L. E., New York, 1868. 



Latreille, Pierre Andre, Paris, 1817. 



Laugier, M., Paris, 1818. 



Lawrence, George N., New York, 1847. 



Lawrence, William, M.D., Loudon, 1821. 



Leach, W. Elford, M.D., London, 1818. 



Le Beau, Justus, M.D., New Orleans, 1833. 



Leconte. John, M.D., San Francisco, Cal., 1853. 




28 CORRESPOXDEXTS. 



Le Conte, Louis, 1815. 



Lee, Henry, Westmorelaud, Virginia, 1816. 



Lefroy, M., Paris, 1817. 



Leighton, James, M.D., Pittsburg, 1821. 



Leman, M., Paris, 1817. 



Leonhard, Karl Ccesar von, Heidelberg, 1824. 



Lepsius, Professor Karl Richard, LL.D., Berlin, 1843. 



Lesquerenx, Leo, Columbus, Ohio, 18(j5. 



Lesson, R. P., Paris, 1832. 



Lettsom, William G., Loudon, 1843. 



Lewis, James, M.D., Mohawk, N. Y., 1861. 



L^Herniinier, Louis, M.D., Guadaloupe, 1817. 



Liehig, Justus, M.D., Giessen, Germany, 1840. 



Lincecum, Gideon, M.D., Long Point, Texas, 1867. 



Lindley, John, Ph.D., London, 1841. 



Linn, Dr. S. H., St. Petersburg, 1876. 



Lobe, M. Guillaume, Havana, Cuba, 1836. 



LocJce, John, M.D., Cincinnati, Ohio, 1841. 



Logan, Algernon Sidney, Germautown, Pennsylvania, 1815. 



Logan, Sir William E., Montreal, Canada, 1846. 



Long, Stephen H., U. S. A., 1817. 



Longchamps, Ed. de Selys, Liege, 1842. 



Lonsdale, William, London, 1847. 



Loriol, Perceval de, Geneva, 1877. 



Lovell, Joseph, M.D., U. S. A., Washington, 1823. 



Lucas, J. A. H. (fils), Paris, 1817. 



Ludlow, W. L., CoL Engineers U. S. Army, 1876. 



Lund, P. W., Denmark, 1849. 



Lyell, Sir Charles, London, 1832. 



Lynch, William F., U. S. N., 1852. 



Lyon, Sidney S., Indiana, 1863. 



Mabille, Jules, Dinon, France, 1867. 

 Macartney, John P., E.D., City of Mexico, 1838. 

 Macauley, Patrick, M.D., Baltimore, 1816. 

 McCartee, D. B., M.D., China, 1861. 

 M'Clellan, Gen. George B.,1855. 

 MacCulloch, James, M.D., London, 1829. 

 WDowell, E]>hraim, M.D., Danville, Kentucky, 1813. 

 Macfadyn, James, M.D., Kingston, Jamaica, 1835. 

 McFarland, Rev. James, 1838. 

 Macgillivray, William, Edinburgh, 1831. 

 Macknevin, William J., M.D., New York, 1814. 

 MacLeay, William Sharp, London, 1836. 

 MacOwan, Peter, Somerset, South Africa, 1874. 

 Magnnnos, Julian, M.D., Norfolk, Virginia, 1812. 

 Malheiro, Prof. Laurencjo, Lisbon, Portugal, 1876. 




CORRESrOXDEXTS. 29 



Malherbe, Alfred, Metz, France, 1850. 



Mangouri, M., Paris, 1812. 



Mauigault, G. E., Charleston, S. C, 1866. 



Mantell, Gideon A., LL.D., London, 1831. 



Mantovani, Prof., Paolo, Rome, 1875. 



Marcoii, Prof. Jules, Zurich, 1860. 



Marin, Col. Juan J., Madrid, 1876. 



Markoe, Francis, Washington City, 1841. 



Marsh, Dexter, Greenfield, Massachusetts, 1852. 



Marsh, Geo. P., Florence, Italy, 1867. 



Marsh, 0. C, New Haven, Conn., 1867. 



Martins, Charles, M.D., Paris, 1833. 



Martins, Professor K. F. P. von, Munich, Austria, 1832. 



Maskelyne; N. S., F.R.S., London, 1875. 



Mason, Owen, Providence, Rhode Island, 1841. 



Mather, William IF., Ohio, 1838. 



iJ/a«r^, M. F., U.S.N., 1852. 



Maximilian, Prince of Wied, 1864. 



Meek, F. B., Washington, D. C, 1856. 



Melsheimer, F. E., M.D., York County, Pennsylvania, 1843. 



Melsheimer, Rev. Frederick Valentine, Hanover, Pennsylvania. 



Menke, Charles Theodore, M.D., Pyrmont, Germany, 1837. 



Mercier, M., Paris, 1812. 



Meyer, Professor Hermann von, Frankford, Germany, 1832. 



Michaux, F. A., Paris, 1818. 



Michel, Myddleton, M.D., South Carolina, 1849. 



Michener, Ezra, M.D., New Garden, Pennsylvania, 1840. 



Miyhels, J. W., Portland, Maine, 1843. 



Milbert, F., New York, 1821. 



Miles, Professor Manly, Lansing, Mich., 1864. 



Mintzer, Wm. A., Engineer Corps U. S. Navy, 1877. 



Miot, A. F., Comte de Milito, Paris, 1825. 



Mitchell, Elisha, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, 1832. 



Mitchell, Prof. 0. M., Cincinnati, Ohio, 1858. 



Mitchell, Samuel L., LL.D., New York, 1812. 



Mivart, Prof. St. George, F.R.S., London, 1875. 



Moeller, Prof. Valerien de, St. Petersburg, 1877. 



Mohrenstein, G. S. Von, Vienna, 1867. 



Moleon, S. G. V. de, Paris, 1833. 



Monger, Johannes, Leipsic, 1822. 



Montgomery, Alexander, M.D., U. S. N., 1814. 



Montgomey, Thomas H'., M.D., New York, 1814. 



Montral, Champvert, Guadalonpe, 1812. 



Montrouzier, R. P., New Caledonia, 1867. 



Morch, Prof. O. A. L., Copenhagen, 1867. 



Morelet, Arthur, Dijon, France, 1867. 



Morgan, Lewis H., Rochester, N. Y., 18G5. 




30 CORRESPONDEXTS. 



Morinier, Noel de la, Paris, 1819. 



Morphelt, John, Adelaide, South Australia, 1845. 



Morris, Rev. John G., D.D., Baltimore, 1844. 



Morse, Edw. S., Portland, Maine, 1859. 



Mortimer, Capt. J. H,, December, 1874. 



Motschiilsky, Col. Victor de, St. Petersburg, 1854. 



Mott, Valentine, M.D., New York, 1814. 



Mousson, Albert, Zurich, 1839. 



Mueller, Baron Ferdinand von, Melbourne, Australia, 1876. 



Mailer, Professor John, M.D., Berlin, 1845. 



Miiller {von), Baron J oh. IFm., 1856. 



Muhlenberg, Rev. Henry, Lancaster, Pennsylvania, 1812. 



Murchison, Sir Roderick Impey, London, 1832. 



Murry, James W., Seville, Spain, 1814. 



Mylius, C, Kronstadt, 1822. 



Nevill, George, Calcutta, East Indies, 1868. 



Nevill, Hon. H., Galle, Ceylon, 1871. 



Newberry, J. S., M.D., New York, 1853. 



Newcomb, Wesley, M.D., Oakland, Calif., 1867. 



Newmann, "Johann G., Gorlitz, 1859. 



Newton, Alfred, London, 1861. 



Nicholsky, Prof. L., St. Petersburg, 1877. 



Nicholson, Charles, M.D., Sidney, New South Wales, 1846. 



Nicollet, J. N., Washington, D. C, 1842. 



Nilsson, Professor Sv., Lund, Sweden, 1847. 



jVordmann, Alexander von, St. Petersburg, 1854. 



Norman, Benjamin M., New Orleans, 1843. 



Norwood, J. G., M.D., Madison, Indiana, 1842. 



Nott, Josiah C, M.D., Mobile, Alabama, 1845. 



Nuttall, Thomas Sutton, Lancashire, England, 1817. 



Oakes, William, Ipswich, Massachusetts, 1830. 



Oemler, Augustus J., Savannah, Georgia, 1812. 



O'Kelly, Michael J., Dublin, Ireland, 1816. 



Oken, Lorenz, Basle, Switzerland, 1837. 



Olmsted, Denison, New Haven, 1828. 



Ombrosi, James, Florence, Italy, 1843. 



Orton, Prof. James, Rochester, N. Y., 1868. 



Osten Sacken, Baron R. von, Russian Legation, New York, 1868. 



Otis, Geo. A., M.D., U. S. A., Washington, D. C, 1866. 



Owen, David Dale, M.D., New Harmony, Indiana, 1840. 



Owen, Prof. Richard, London, 1834. 



Packard, Dr. A. S., Salem, Mass., 1876. 

 Palmer, John, Calcutta, 1817. 

 Parent, M., Paris, 1820. 




CORRESPOXDENTS. ol 



Parker, W- Kitchen, F.R.S., London, 1868. 



Parlces, Samuel, London, 1S21. 



Parsons, Usher, M.D., Providence, Rhode Island, 1838. 



Peirce, Prof. Benj., Cambridge, Mass., 1858. 



Pentland, J. Barclay, London, 1821. 



Percival, Jaines G., M.D., New Haven, Connecticut, 1843. 



Perkins, Jacob, Newburyport, Massachusetts, 1813. 



Perley, M. H., St. Johns, New Brunswick, 1852. 



Peter, Robert, M.D., Lexington, Kentucky, 1835. 



Peters, Prof. Wilhelm C. H., Berlin, 1875. 



Petit de la Saussaye, Paris, 1867. 



Pfeiffer, Louis, M.D., Cassel, 1867. 



Philippi, R. A., M.D., Santiago, Cliili, 1867. 



Phillips, John, York, England, 1843. 



Pickering. Charles, M.D., Boston, 1826. 



Piddington, Henry, Calcutta, 1836. 



Pierpont. William, Barbadoes, 1812. 



Pinart, M. Alphonse, Paris, 1876. 



Pinel, M., M.D., Paris, 1815. 



Pitcher, Zina, M.D., Detroit, 1830. 



Planchon, Prof. J. E., Montpelier, France, 1873. 



Playfair, Col. R. L., Algiers, 1870. 



Pleasants, Henry, Pottsville, Penna., 1867. 



Pleasouton, Alfred, U. S. A., 1857. 



Poey, Prof. F., Havana, 1867. 



Poinsett, Joel R., South Carolina, 1829. 



Poll, Joseph Harrier, M.D., Naples, 1820. 



Porcher, Francis P., M.D., Charleston, S. C, 1849. 



Porta, Prof. Luigi Bombecci, Bologna, Italy, 1875. 



Porter, Prof. T. C, Easton, Pennsylvania, 1853. 



Porter, T. D., M.D., Columbia, South Carolina, 1822. 



Postell, Jas., St. Simons Isle, Georgia, 1859. 



Pourhet, Professor F. A., Rouen, France, 1842. 



Poutrel, Alexander, Guadaloupe, West Indies, 1812. 



Powell, J. W., Washington, D. C, 1872. 



Pratten, Henry, New Harmony, Indiana, 1854. 



Provost, Constant, Paris, 1823. 



Prichard, James Cowles, M.D., Bristol, England, 1838. 



Prime, Temple, New York, 1862. 



Prinsep, James, Calcutta, 1836. 



Prout, Hiram A., M.D., St. Louis, 1854. 



Putnam, F. W., Salem, Mass., 1867. 



Quinby,J. B., 1836. 



Raimondi, Antonio, M.D., Lima, Peru, 1867. 

 Rammelsberg, Prof. C. F., Berlin, 1859. 

 Randall, John, M.D., Boston, 1816. 




32 CORRESPONDENTS. 



Randall, John W., Boston, 1837. 



Ranzani, Camillo, Bologna, 1827. 



Rathvon, S. S., Lancaster, Pennsylvania, 1845. 



Ranch, John H., Burlington, Iowa, 1856. 



Ravenel, Ednnind, M.D., Charleston, South Carolina, 1832. 



Raveuel, Henry W., South Carolina, 1849. 



Recluz, M. C, Paris, 1867. 



Redfield, William C, New York, 1841. 



Reeve, Lovell, F.L.S., London, 1862. 



Reicheubach, Professor H. G. L., Dresden, 1836. 



Reinhardt, Prof. J., Copenhagen, 1867. 



Reinhardt, J. C, M.D., Brazil, 1845. 



Reimvardt, Prof. C. G. C, Leyden, 1821. 



Remond de Corbineau, Auguste, San Francisco, Cal., 1863. 



Retzius, Professor, Andreas, Stockholm, 1846. 



Reynolds, F. N., New York, 1837. 



Reynolds, Henry S., M.D., U. S. N., 1835. 



Reynolds, Win. F., U. S. T. E., 1862. 



Rhea, Matthew, Columbia, Tennessee, 1832. 



Rich, William, Boston, Massachusetts, 1845. 



Richardson, Sir John, M.D., Loudon, 1832. 



Richtofen, Baron Ferdinand Freihern von, Berlin, 1877. 



Ricord, Alexander, Paris, 1823. 



Ricord, Phillipe, Paris, 1823. 



Riddell, John L., M.D., New Orleans, 1836. 



Rijgersma, H. Evan, M.D., St. Martins, W. L, 1868. 



Riley, Charles V., St. Louis, Mo., 1873. 



Riley, William, M.D., Baltimore, 1833. 



Rio, Prof. Andres del, Mexico, 1849. 



Risso, J. A., Nice, France, 1818. 



Riviere, E., Menton, France, 1872. 



Robb, James, Frederickton. New Brunswick, 1846. 



Romer, Prof. Edward von, Marburg, 1859. 



Romer, Ferdinand, M.D., Bonn, 1859. 



Roepper, Wm. Theo., Bethlehem, Penn., 1865. 



Roesler, A. R., Washington, D. C, 1868. 



Rogers, W. B., Boston, 1833. 



Rolleston, Prof. George, F.R.S., Oxford, England, 1875. 



Romanowsky, Lt.-Col. Hennadius, St. Petersburg, 1865. 



Rose, Robert H., M.D., Silver Lake, Pennsylvania, 1833. 



Ross, Bernard R., Hudson's Bay Co.'s Service, 1861. 



Roxburgh, William, M.D., Calcutta, 1812. 



Rucco, Jtdius, M.D., Naples, 1820. 



Riippel, Edward, M.D., Frankfort, Germany, 1830. 



Rutemeyer, Prof. Ludwig, Basle, 1877. 



Rutherfurd, Lewis M., New York, 1859. 




CORRESPONDENTS. 33 



Sager, Abram, M.D., Detroit, 1839. 

 Sagra, Ramon de la, Madrid, 1829. 

 St. Fonils, M. Faxtjas de, Paris, 1812. 

 St. Hilaire, Geoffrey, Paris, 1818. 

 Saldauba da Gama, Jose de, Rio Janeiro, 1876. 

 Saldanba da Gaina, Liiiz de, Imperial Navy of Brazil, 1876. 

 Salvin, Osbert, Loudon, 1867. 

 Sandberger, Fridoliu, M.D., Wiesbaden, 1855. 

 Sandberger, Guido, M.D., Wiesbaden, 1855. 

 Santos, C. A., Rio de Janeiro, 1855. 

 Saussure, Henri de, Geneva, 1859. 

 Sauvalle, F. A., Cuba, 1855. 

 Savage, Rev. Thomas S., M.D., Natchez, 1846. 

 Savi, Professor Paolo, Pisa, 1827. 

 Saynisch, Lewis, M.D., Tioga, Pennsylvania, 1836. 

 Scammon, Capt. C. M., San Francisco, Califoruia, 1872. 

 Schaum, H., M.D., Berlin, 1852. 

 Schimper, Prof. W. P., Strasbu/-g, 1859. 

 Schoolcraft, Henry R., Washington, 1820. 

 Schouw, Professor J. Frederick, Ph.D., Copenhagen, 1848. 

 Schreibers, Charles Von, Vieuua, 1818. 

 Schwaegrichen, Professor Fredk., M.D., Leipsic, 1836. 

 Schweinitz, Rev. Lewis D. Von, Ph.D., Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, 1822. 

 Sclater, Philip Lutley, London, 1856. 

 Scoresby, Rev. William, Yorkshire, England, 1848. 

 Scott, Andrew, M.D., Newbern, North Carolina, 1815. 

 Scudder, Saml. II., M.D., Boston, Mass., 1867. 

 Sealey, James, Cork, Ireland, 1820. 

 Sedgwick, Rev. Adam, London, 1843. 

 Selby, John Priduuux, Northumberland, Englana, 1847. 

 Serres, Marcel de, Montpellier, France, 1832. 

 Sewer, A. P., Lyons, 1867. 

 Shannon, John, Beaver, Pennsylvania, 1831. 

 Sharpey, William S., London, 1849. 

 Sheldon, Prof. D. S., Davenport, Iowa, 1862. 

 Shepard, Charles U., New Haven, 1828. 

 Short, Charles H., M.D., Lexington, Kentucky, 1831. 

 Showalter, E. R., M.D., Uuiontown, Ala., 1861. 

 Shumard, Benjamin F., M.D., St. Louis, 1848. 

 Siebold, Carl Theo. von, Munich, 1859. 

 Siler, A. L., Osmer, Utah, 1874. 



Silliman, Benjamin, M.D., LL.D., New Haven, 1815. 

 Silliman, Benjamin, Jr., New Haven, 1841. 



Sims, Howard, Baltimore, Maryland, 1817. • • 



Sinclair, Wm., Glasgow, 1866. 

 Skinner, Ezekiel, M.D., Liberia, 1837. 

 Smallwood, Prof. Chas., M.D., Montreal, 1860. 

 3 y 




34 CORRESPOXDEXTS. 



Smith, Lt.-Col. Charles Hamilton, Loudon, 1S46. 



Smith, J. Browu, California, 1852, 



Smith, J. Lawrence, Louisville, Kentucky, 1846. 



Smith, Robert, St. Thomas, West Indies, 1851. 



Solar, Jose del, Lima, 1855. 



Sorby, Henry Clifton, Sheffield, Eug., 1858. 



Southern, William, M.D., Maryland, 1812. 



Souverbie, M., Bordeaux, 1867. 



Soioerhy, George B., London, 1841. 



Sowerby, G. B., F.L.S., London, 1865. 



Spach, Prof. Edouard, Paris, 1862. 



Sparrman, Andreas, Univ. Upsal, 1818. 



Spillman, Wm., M.D., Columbns, Miss., 1857. 



Spinner, Hon. F. E., Washington, 1863. 



Squier, George E., New York, 1847. 



Stabile, Abbe Joseph, Milan, 1867. 



Stacey, Col. L. R., Calcutta, 1838. 



Stauffer, Jacob, Lancaster, Penna., 1866. 



Stearns, R. E. C, San Francisco, Cal., 1867. 



Stein, Dr. Friedrich, Prague, 1862. 



Steiner, Lewis H., M.D., Frederick, Md., 1855. 



Steinhauer, Rev. Henrfi, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania. 



Stemberg, Gaspard, Comte de, Bohemia, 1821. 



Stephens, John L., New York, 1843. 



Sternberg, George M., U. S. A,, 1872. 



Stevens, Alexander H., M.D., New York, 1819. 



Stevens, Edward, T., Salisbury, England, 1876. 



Stevenson, James, U. S. Geological Survey, 1874. 



Stevenson, John Jas., Morgantown, West Virginia, 1870. 



Stodder, Chas., Boston, 1865. 



Stoliczka, Dr. Ferdinand, Calcutta, 1868. 



Storer, D. Humphreys, M.D., Boston, 1839. 



Strain, Lt. Isaac G., U.S.N., 1843. 



Stretch, R. H., San Francisco, California, 1868. 



Strickland, Hugh E., London, 1848. 



Sturm, Jacob, M.D., Nuremberg, 1847. 



Styles, John, M.D., New York, 1834, 



Suckley, George, M.D., New York, 1855. 



Suess, Prof. Edward, Vienna, 1859. 



Sullivan', William S., Ohio. 1844. 



Swainson, William, New Zealand, 1830. 



Swallow, G. C, Colombia, Mo., 1869. 



Tail, Charles, Claiborne, Alabama, 1832. 

 Tamnau, Professor Frederick, Berlin, 1839. 

 Tappan, Benjamin, Ohio, 1842. 

 Tate, Ralph, Loudon, England, 1868. 




CORUESPONDEXTS. 35 



Taylor, Julius S., M.D., Carrolton, Ohio, 1845. 



Temminck, Conrad Jacob, Leydeu, 1824. 



Tliackara, J. M. S., Punca, Peru, 186G. 



Thomas E., Baltimore, 1816. 



Thompson, Allan, M.D., Edinburgh, 1834. 



Thompson, William, Belfast, Ireland, 1848. 



Thomson, .John H., New Bedford, Mass., 1862. 



Thornton, William, M.D., Washington, 1812. 



Thurber, Geo., New York, 1861. 



Tiedmann, Professor F., M.D., Heidelberg, 1848. 



Tilden, Joseph, Boston, Massachusetts, 1812. 



Tittel, Prof. Karl A., Munich, 1875. 



Tomes, John, F.R.S., London, 1868. 



Torrey, John, M.D., New York, 1822. 



Totten, Jos. G., U. S. A., 1830. 



Traill, Thomas Stewart, M.D., Edinburgh, 1835. 



Traue, Dr. Thos. K., Edinburgh, 1873. 



Trautschold, H., Moscow, 1877. 



Travers, John, Jr., Lisbon, 1814. 



Tremper, Jacob C, Yates County, New York, 1845. 



Treseott, John S., M.D., Charleston, South Carolina, 1818. 



Trimble, James, M.D., William>jburg, Pennsylvania, 1836. 



Trinius, Professor, M.U., St. Petersburg, Russia, 1836. 



Troschel, Prof. F. H., Bonn, 1867. 



Tuckerman, Edward, Cambridge, Massachusetts, 1848. 



Tuomey, M., Tuscaloosa, Alabama, 1845. 



Turner, John, Maryland, 1814. 



Turner, Dr. Theophilus H., U. S. A., 1868. 



Twigg, William A., New Harmony, Indiana, 1841. 



Unanu/, Hippolito, M.D., Lima, Peru, 1821. 

 Ure, Andreiv, M.D., Glasgow, 1829. 



Vaillant, Leon, M.D., Paris, 1867. 



Van Beneden, P. J., Bruxelles, 1864. 



Vancleve, John, Dayton, Ohio, 1843. 



Van Hoorebeke, Charles Joseph, Glient, 1821. 



Van Rensselaer, Jeremiah, M.D., New York, 1829. 



Van Rensselaer, Stephen, .Albany, New York, 1835. 



Vargas, Jose Maria, M.D., Caracas, Venezuela, 1835. 



Vauquelin, M., Paris, 1818. 



Verneuil, Edonard de, Paris, France, 1846. 



Verreaux, Jules, Paris, 1848. 



Vogdes, A. W., U. S. Army, 1877. 



Voltz, Louis Phillippe, Strasburg, Germany, 1833. 




36 CORRESPONDENTS. 



Wagner, Professor A., Munich,- 1852. 



Wailes, B. L. C, Washington, Mississippi, 1854. 



Waldheim, Fischer de, Moscow, 1848. 



Wallich, Nathaniel, M.D., Calcutta, 1810. 



Walsh, Benjamin D., lUiuois, 1861. 



Ward, Malthus A., M.D., Athens, Georgia, 1832. 



Warder, John A., M.D., Cincinnati, Ohio, 1842. 



Warren, John C, M.D., Boston, Massachusetts, 1842. 



Webber, Samuel, M.D., New Hampshire, 1851. 



Webster, John W., M.D., Cambridge, Massachusetts, 1814. 



Weth-rill, Samuel R., Burlington, New Jersey, 1814. 



Wheelwright, Joseph, M.D., Kentucky, 181-1. 



Whitney, J. D., Boston, 1852. 



Wiedeman, D. R. G., M.D., Kiel, Germany, 1823. 



Wilder, Burt G., Ithaca, N. Y., 1873. 



Willis, John R., Halifax, Nova Scotia, 1867. 



Wilson, Edward, Pembrokeshire, Wales, 1846. 



Wilson, Hon. J. S., Washington, D. C, 1868. 



Winchell, Alexander H., Ann Arbor, Mich., 1867. 



Wiuslow, R. K., Cleveland, Ohio, 1854. 



Wisely, J. J., M.D., Sioux Falls, Dacota Territory, 1866. 



Wister, Charles J., Germantown, Pennsylvania, 1814, 



Wood, Alphonso, Brooklyn, N. Y., 1867. 



Wood, W. Maxwell, M.D., U.S.N., 1847. 



Woodworth, John M., Chicago, 1861. 



Worth, James, Bucks County, Pennsylvania, 1823. 



Wrai/, Thomas J., M.D., Augusta, Georgia, 1818. 



Wright, W. W., York Springs, Pa., 1859. 



Wyman, Jeffries, M.D., Boston, Massachusetts, 1844. 



Wynne, James, M.D., New York, 1861. 



Yarrell, William, London, 1829. 



Yorke, Gen. L. E., Cincinnati, Ohio, 1871. 



Zaremba, C. William, St. Joseph's, Mich., 1867. 

 Ziegler, Rev. Daniel, York, Pennsylvania, 1844. 

 Zimmerman, Chs., M.D., Columbia, South Carolina, 1836, 

 Zollickoffer, William, M.D., Middletown, Maryland, 1834. 

 Zuccarini, Professor Joseph G., Munich, Bavaria, 1846. 




OFFICERS— JUNE 30, 1877, 



P RESIDENT. 



W. S. W. RUSCHEXBERGER, m.d. 



VICE-PRESIDENTS. 



WM. S. YAUX, J. L. LE CONTE, M.D. 



R E C R D I N G S E C R E T A R Y . 



EDAV. J. NOLAN, M.D. 



CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 



GEO. H. HORN, M.D. 



TREASURER. 



WM. C. HENSZEY. 



LIBRARIAN. 



EDW. J. NOLAN. M.D. 



CURATORS. 



JOS. LEIDY, M.D., CIIAS. F. PARKER, 



AVM. S. VAUX, H. C. CHAPMAN, M.D. 



COUNCILLORS. 



J S. HAINES, J- H. REDFIELD, 



GEORGE VAUX, S- FISHER CORLIES, 



WM H DOUGHERTY, GEORGE A. KOKNIG, Ph.D. 



AUBREY H. SMITH, GEORGE H. HORN, M.D., 



EDW S AVHELEN, JOSEPH WHARTON, 



R. S. KENDERDINE, M.D., CHARLES P. PEROT. 



FINANCE COMMITTEE. 



WM. S. VAUX, AUBREY H. SMITH, 



EDW. S. WHELEN. 



PROFESSOR OF HISTOLOGY AND MICROSCOPIC TECHNOLOGY. 



J. GIBBONS HUNT, M.D. 




OFFICERS OF THE SECTIONS 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 



June 30, 187V. 



BIOLOGICAL AND MICROSCOPICAL SECTION. 



Director, 

 Vice-Director, 

 Recorder, 

 Secretary, . 

 Treasurer, . 

 Conservator. 



Robert S. Kenderdine. 

 James Tyson. 

 Carl Seiler. 



J. H. McQuiLLEN. 



Isaac Norris, Jr. 

 J. Gibbons Hunt. 



CONCHOLOGICAL SECTION. 



Director, 

 Vice-Director, 

 Recorder, 

 Secretary, . 

 Treasurer, . 

 Librarian, . 

 Conservator, 



W. S. W. Ruschenberger. 

 Wm. M. Gabb. 

 S. Raymond Roberts. 

 Rev. E. R. Beadle. 

 Wm. L. Mactier. 

 Edward J. I^Tolan. 

 Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Director, 



ENTOMOLOGICAL SECTION. 



John L. I^e Conte. 



Vice-Director, 

 Recorder, 

 Secretai-y, . 

 Treasurer, . 

 Conservator, 



George H. Horn. 

 J. H. Ridings. 

 C. A. Blake. 

 ¥j. T. Cressox. 

 Jamks Ridings. 




OFFICERS OF THE SECTIONS. 



39 



BOTANICAL SECTION. 



Director, 

 Vice-Director, 

 Recorder, 

 Secretary, . 

 Treasurer, . 

 Conservator, 



w. s. w. ruschenberger. 

 Thomas Meehan. 

 Isaac Burk. 

 IIexry Leffman. 

 Jose O. Sghimmel. 

 John H. Redfield, 



PHYSICS AND CHEMISTRY SECTION. 

 Director, . . . . G. A. Koenig. 



Vice-Director, 

 Recorder, 

 Secretary, . 

 Treasurer, . 

 Conservator, 



Thos. M. Chatard. 

 H. C. Lewis. 

 Alexander Wilcocks. 

 W. H. Dougherty. 

 E. Goldsmith. 



MINERALOGICAL SECTION. 



Director, 

 Vice-Director, 

 Recorder, 

 Secretary, . 

 Treasurer, . 

 Conservator, 



Theo. D. Rand. 

 Wm. H. Dougherty. 

 H. C. Lewis. 

 H. C. Lewis. 

 Wm. S. Vaux, 



Jos. WiLLCOX. 





OFPICEES 



OF 



THE ACADEVIY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 

 OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Gerard Troost, M.D., 

 William Maclure, 

 William Hembel, 

 Samuel George Morton, M.D. 

 George Ord, 

 Isaac Lea, LL.D., 

 Thomas B. Wilson, M.D., 

 Robert Bridges, M.D., 

 Isaac Hays, M.D., 



PRESIDENTS. 



Elected 



Jan. 25, 1812, 



Dec. 31, 1817, 



May 26, 1840, 



Dec. 1849, 



1851, 



1858, 



1863, 



1864, 



1865, 



Served until 

 Dec. 1817. 

 Mar. 23, 1840.* 

 Dec. 1849. 

 May 15, 1851.* 

 Dec. 1858. 



1863. 

 June 28, 1864. 

 Dec. 1865. 



1869. 



W. S. W. Ruschenberger, M.D., 



1869. 



John Shinn. Jr., 

 N. S. Parmcntier, 

 Zaccheus Collins, 

 George Ord, 

 W*m. Hembel, 

 John Price Wetherill, 

 Sam'l Geo. Morton, M.D., 

 R. Eglesfield Griffith, M.D., 

 Robert Bridges, M.D., 

 Isaac Lea, 



YICE-PEESIDENTS. 

 Jan. 25, 1812, 

 1812, 

 Dec. 26. 1815, 

 " 31, 1816, 

 July 26, 1831, 

 Dec. 1834, 



May 28, 1840, 

 Dec. 1849, 



Sept. 24, 1850, 

 Dec. 1853, 



Dec. 31, 1816. 



" 26, 1815. 



June 13, 18.31.* 

 Dec. 1834. 



May 28, 1840. 

 July, 1853.* 

 Dec. 1849. 



June 26, 1850.* 

 Dec. 1864. 



1858 „ 



* Died. 




42 VICE-PRESIDENTS SECRETARIES. 



Elected Served until 



John Le Coute, Dec. 1858, Nov.21, 18G0J 



"William S. Yaux, " 1860, Dec. 1874. 



John Cassin, " 1864, Jan. 1869.^ 



W. S. Vr. Ruschenberger, M.D., Jan. 20, 1869, Dec. 18G9. 



Joseph Carson, M.D., Dec. 1869. " 1875. 



John L. Le Coute, M.D., " 1874. 



William S. Yaux, " 1875. 



COEEESPONDING SECHETAEIES. 



Died. 





44 



Thomas Say, 

 Isaiah Lukens, 

 Jacob Gilliams, 

 George Ord, 

 Lardner Vanuxem, 

 Titian R. Peale, 

 C. A. Le Sueur, 

 J. Price Wetherill, 

 Thomas McEuen, M.D., 

 Isaac, Hays, M.D., 

 Richard Ilarlau, M.D., 

 T. R. Peale, 

 Johu Vauglian, 

 J. P. Wetherill, 



Isaiah Lukeus, 



Thomas McEuen, M.D., 



Samu'l G. Mortou, M.D., 



Chas. A. Poulson, 



Chas. Pickering, M.D., 



Isaiah Lukens, 



Paul Beck Goddard, M.D. 



Walter R. Johnson, 



T. A. Conrad, 



Edward Ilallowell, M.D., 



William Blanding, M.D., 



Thomas Nuttall, 



Wm. S. Vaux, 



Robert Pearsall, 



J. K. Townaend, 



G. 0. Leib, 



John S. Phillips, 



Samuel Ashmcad, 



John Cassin, 



Gavin Watson, M.D., 



* Died. 




CURATORS — AUDITORS. 



45 



John K. Townsend, M.D., 



Josejili Leidy, M.D., 



J. D. Sergeant, 



E. D. Cope, 



George W. Tyron, Jr., 



Charles F. Parker, 



Ilenry C. Chapman, M.D., 



John Speakman, 



Benjamin Say, 



Richard Randolph, 



R. E. Griffith, M.D., 



Joseph H. Dulles, 



Isaac Lea, 



Caleb Carmalt, 



R. E. Griffith, M.D., 



W. S. "Warder, 



J. M. Brewer, 



S. G. Morton, M.D., 



J. Dobson, 



Geo. "W. Carpenter, 



S. Y. Merrick, 



W. M. Walmsley, 



C. W. Pennock, M.D., 



C. ITedelius, 



Thomas McEuen, M.D., 



P. B. Goddard, M.D., 



William Norris, Jr., 



"Walter R. Johnson, 



Daniel Steinhauer, 



Robert E. Peterson, 



Thomas D. Mutter, M.D., 



Robert E. Peterson, 



Algernon S. Roberts, 



Wm. S. Vaux, 



A. D. Chaloner, M.D., 



R. Pcarsall. 




PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 



March 25, 1817, a committee was appointed to devise a plan and make 

 arrangements to publish a Journal. It consisted of Wm. Maclure, Thomas 

 Cooper, M.D., Robt. M. Patterson, M.D., Thomas Say, Reuben Haines, 

 George Ord. Thomas Nuttall, and Joseph H. Dulles. These eight gentlemen 

 served until December 1818. Then a publication committee, which included 

 three of them, was elected. 



On the 20th of May. 1817, the first part of the Journal of the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia was reported ready to be distributed. 




PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 47 



* Died. 




48 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE — COUNCILORS. 



J. G. Hunt, M.D., 

 Joseph Wharton, 

 Joseph Jeanes, 

 George A. Koenig, Ph.D. 

 George Vaux, 

 J. S. Haines, 

 W. H. Dougherty, 

 Harrison Allen, M.D.. 



M-a 



* Died. 



t From. 1869 until May, 1870, the conncil consisted of the officers of the 

 Academy and four cimncilors, elected annually for one year. Now there are 

 twelve councilors : four to be elected annually for three years. 



n 








QH Academy of Natural sciences 



1 of Philadelphia 

 A2 Proceedings 



V.29 



Biological 

 & Medical 

 Serials 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 

 CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



STORAGE 





