



PROCEEDINGS 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1895. 



(Jo 



COMMITTEE ON PUBLICATION: 

 Thomas Meehan, Charle.s E. Smith, 



- Edward J. Nolan, M. D., George H. Horn, M. D. , 



j^ Harrison Allen, M. D. 



Editor: EDWARD J. NOLAN, M. D. « 



IMIFLADELPMIA: 

 ACADEMY OF N A T U K A L SCIENCES, 

 i^ooan square. 



1890. 



11 




^ 



Al'ADKMY itV NATrilAI, SCIKNCKS OK I'll 1 1, A DKI, I'll I A, 



February (!. 1800. • 



I hereby certify that printed copies of the Proceedings of the 

 Academy for 1895 have been presented at the meetings of the Academy 

 as follows : — 

 Pa 



LEVYTYPE CO., ENGRAVERS AND PRINTERS, PHILA. 




1 



LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS. 



W/7// reference to the sez>eral articles contributed by each. 

 For Verbal Communications see General Index. 



Baldwin, D. D. Descriptions of new Species of Achatinellida? 



from the Hawaiian Islands (Plates X and XI) 214 



Cockerell, T. D. A. Some new Bee?' of the (leuus Perdita ... 11 

 Ellis, J. B. Notes on .'>onie speoimeii'* of Pj-renomycetes in the 



Schweinitz Herbarium of the Academy 20 



Ellis, J. B., and B. M. Everhart. New Species of Fungi from 



various localities 413 



Foote, Warren M. Preliminary Note on a new Alkali Mineral . 408 



Fowke, Gerard. Archieological Work in Ohio 506 



Fox, William J. Synopsis of the Stizini <jf Boreal America . . 264 

 Synupt^i.s of the Bemhicini of Boreal America (Plate XIV) . 351 

 Synopsis of the North American Si)ecies of Gorytes Latr. . . 517 

 Greene, Edward L. Eclogie Botanica', No. 2. I. Some new 



Western Plants ; II. Revision of Tropidocarpum .546 



Gwatkin, H. M., and Henry Sutor. Observations on the Den- 

 tition of Achatiuellidie 237 



Harris, Gilbert D. New and otherwise interesting Tertiary 



Mollusca from Texas (Plates I-IX) 45 



Holm, Theo. Contributions to the Flora of Greenland 543 



Johnson, C. W., and D. W. Co(iuillet. Diptera of Florida, with 



additional descriptions of new Genera and Species ... 303 

 Keller, Ida A. The Jelly-like secretion of the fruit of Peltandra 



undulata (Plate XII) 287 



Notes on the Study of the Cross-teriilization of Flowers by 



Insects 555 



Kennedy, Williani. The Eocene Tertiary of Texas ea.^^t of the 



Brazcw Kiver 8i) 



.Meehan, Thomas. Memoir of John Howard Ilcdlicld 2!»2 



Moore, J. Percy. Notes on American Enchytneida'. I. New 



Species of Fridericia from tlic vicinity of Philadelphia 



(IMateXIII) 341 



Morris, Charles. The Extinction of S|H;cics 253 



Xolun, Edw. J., M.D. A biographical noiicc <.f W. .^. W. 



BnH<'henl)erger, .M.D 462 




Ortniaiiii. Ariu>l(l K. A Study of tht' Hystmiatic and >!:eograj)hi«' 



l)istril)Utiu!i of the DiM-apod Kaiuily ("r:uiK<)iiid)i> Hate . . 1": 

 Pilsbry, Henry A. Ou the Statiin of the Nuiiie^ AplyHia and 



Tethys . 34'; 



rUsbry, H. A., and E. G. Vauatta. New Species of the 



Genus Ceriou 2()f 



Rhoads, Samuel N. Deseriptions of new MammalH from Florida 



and Southern California 3S 



New Subsi>ecies of the Gray Fox and Say'8 Chipmunk ... -I'l 

 Notes on the Varying Hares of Washington and Hritinh 



Columbia, with descriptions of a new Suljspecief 241 



Distribution of the Ameriran IJison in Penn83'lvania, with 



remarks on a new fossil S{)eeie8 244 



Contributions to the Zoology of TeunesBee. No. 1, Reptiles 



and Batrachians 376 



Contributions to the Zoology of Tennessee. No. 2, Birds . . 463 

 Ryder, John A. An arrangement of the Retinal Cells in the 



Eyes of Fishes partially simulating Compound Eyes . . . 101 

 The true Nature of the so-called "Nettle-Threads " of Para- 



nifecium 167 



Scott, W. B. Protoptychus Hatcheri, a new Rodent from the 



Uinta Eocene 209 



Starks, Edwin Chapin. Description of a new Genus and Species 



of Cottoid Fishes from Puget Sound 410 



Stone, Witmer. The Priority of the names Calliste, Aglaia and 



Calospiza and their use in Ornithology 251 



List of Birds collected in North Greenland by the Peary 

 Expedition of 1891-2 and the Relief Expedition of 1892. . 502 

 Walter, Emma. Does the Delaware Water Gap consist) of Two 



River Gorges? 198 




PROCEEDINGS 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1895. 



January 1. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the Chair. 



Fifteen persons pre.sent. 



The (Joundl reporte*! that the following Standing Committees had 

 been appointed to serve during the current year: — 



On Library. — W. S. W, Ruscheiiherger, M.D. , Henry C. 

 Chapman, M. D. , Charles V. Perot, Geor<,'e Vaux, Jr., and Dr. C. 

 Mewlin Peircc. 



On PiiM.K ATiONfl. — John H. Redfield, (.'harlos K. Smith, 

 Thomas Mech an, George II. Horn, M.I)., and Edw. ,1. Nolan, M.D. 



On Instruction and Lkcturi-x. — Charles Morri.s, Henjamin 

 Sharp, M.D., Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., George A. Rex, M.D.. and 

 r.selma (,'. Smith. 



Standing Committkf: ok Council on By-Laws. — W. S. W. 

 RuBchenhiirger, M.D., Theodore D. Rand, William Sellers, and 

 Isaac J. Wistar. 

 2 




10 pmweedings ok thk acadkmy of [1895. 



Jamaky 8. 

 The Presideut, Gi:ni:i{al Isaac J. Wihtah, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-six persons present. 



January 15. 

 Dr. Samukl G. Dixon in the Chair. 

 Eighty- nine persons present. 



A paper entitled "On some new and otherwise interesting Tertiary 

 MoUusca frora Texas," by Gilbert D. Harris, was presented for pub- 

 lication. 



Charles Lester Leonard, M.D., made a communication on a 

 new method of studying cell motion as exemplified in the red and 

 white blood corpuscles. (No abstract.) 



January 22, 

 Mr. Charles P. Perot in the Chair. 



Twenty- eight persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication: — 



" Notes on Specimens of Pyrenomycetes in the Schweinitz Her- 

 barium of the Academy," by J. B. Ellis. 



"Description of new Mammals from California and Florida," 

 by S. N. Rhoads. 



The deaths of Robert H. Laraborne and Wra. G. Moorehead, 

 members, were announced. 



January 29. 

 Dr. C. Newlin Peirce in the Chair. 

 Twenty-two persons present. 



R. Shirley Borden and Frank Haimbach were elected members. 

 The following were ordered to be printed : — 




1895.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHIIiADELPHIA. H 



SOME NEW BEES OF THE GENUS PERDITA. 

 BY T. 1). A. COCKKRELL. 



In C'resson's cataloirue (»f 1887, there are iriven thirteen species of 

 Perdlfit, four of which, however, are considered only doubtfully 

 referable to the genus. Of these species 2 are from Col., 2. Cala., 

 2 Xev., 1 Tex., 1 Col., Nev., 1 Col., Tex., N. Mex., 1 Ga., 1 U. 

 S., 1 N. Am. Lately, Mr. Fox has described three from Ix)wer 

 California. The opinion, which might have been derived from these 

 facts, that the genus is specially characteri^^tic of the arid region, is 

 strengthened by the information given below. Without any special 

 search for the genus, the writer has discovered ten new species in 

 New Mexico during the season of 1894, though one of them had 

 previously been captured by Prof. Townsend. 



Mr. Fox, to whom I am very greatly indebted for comparing the 

 types with those of Cresson, has suggested the preparation of a 

 synoptic table. This, however, is deferred for the present, as it is 

 confidently expected that more new species will be found when they 

 are systeniatically looked for next year. 



The 9[)ecific differences offered by these bees present a very in- 

 teresting problem to the Darwinian, and it is hoped to dwell at 

 some length on this phase of the subject hereafter. But attention 

 may be called to the |)eculiar and apparently constant (within nar- 

 row limit? ) markings of the face, which seem to fall under Wallace's 

 cla.«s of " recognition marks." 



All of the bees now described ap|)ear to me to be congeneric in 

 the strictcf^t sense. It has not been thought necessary to mention in 

 each description those characters which run throughout the scries; 

 it is assumed that anyone using the descriptions has made himself 

 familiar with the generic type 



With regard to the extent of the pale markings on the face, the 

 New Mexican species of Perdita form a series thus : — 



Sfunirrorea -j- plupnaf/r -\- M'TiiutnilrtUt, lii/nllnn, a//npriniij<, albmnt- 

 talu, tiwtini, caiiiria, uitiilflht -{- foxi, vuirt'mi, liifrola. 




12 PROCEEDINGS OK THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



The known (Ustrihution of the species in New Mexico is thus : — 



(1.) Mesilla valley, about 3,800 ft. above tido. — Hyalina, albipen- 

 nxa, phipnahr, inaiilni, smiicrocea, luteola, ititiilrlln, austiui.^S spp. 



(2.) vSau Augustine, on eaat side of Organ Mts. — AlbovHtata.=: 

 1 sp. 



(3.) .Santa F^, about 7,000 ft. above tide. — Sexmaculata, caniiui, 

 foxi. = 3 spp. 



Thus the species of each locality are ditlerent. 



/-•. Itifeolii has lieen described in another paper ; it is easily known 

 by its entirely yellow color. The other new species are described 

 herewith. All the types are now in Coll. Amer. Ent. Society. 

 Ferdita phymatae n. sp. 9. 



About 4i mm. long: head and thorax shining olive-green, scutel- 

 lum bluish, metathorax green. Abdomen shining piceous. 



Face without pale marks; mandibles brown; antennsedark brown, 

 last four joints of flagellum pale brown beneath. Crown of head 

 finely punctured. A distinct ridge between antennie, replaced pos- 

 teriorly by a groove, which extends to the middle ocellus. A short, 

 shallow groove near and parallel with inner margin of eye. 



Thorax very finely punctured, with a few scattered pale hairs. 

 Metathorax with a distinct fovea. 



Abdomen piceous, sparsely clothed with pale hairs at tip. 



Legs dark brown; wings hyaline, iridescent, venation brown. 



Recognized among the species with a dark face, by its dark brown 

 abdomen and legs. 



Hab. — The type was taken out of the clutches of an example of 

 Phymata fasciata Gray, at Las Cruces, N. M. , on the campus of the 

 Agricultural College, beginning of October. (Ckll., 2,492. ) The 

 Phymuta was on yellow (Compositse) flowers, which it deceptively 

 resembles in color. 



Mr. Fox remarks that semicrocea, martini, sexmaciilafa, and phy- 

 make are "all good and so distinct as to scarcely require comparison." 

 Perdita sexmaculata n. sp. $. 



About 5 mm. long : head and thorax shining indigo-blue; clypeus, 

 mesothorax, and scutellum black; prothorax slightly greenish in 

 some lights, in others blue. Ends of mandibles rufous. Scape black ; 

 flagellum dark brown, paler beneath. Face and clypeus with dis- 

 tinct but very sparse punctures. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA . 13. 



Thorax smooth and very sparsely punctured, except the blue 

 metathorax, which appears rough from extremely minute and close 

 punctures — one should say rugulose rather than punctured. 



Abdomen piceous, shiny, apex with pale hairs. Sides of 2d, 3d, 

 and 4th segments with a large, pale yellow s|X)t or blotch. First 

 segment with a deep longitudinal groove extending from its base to 

 a little beyond its middle. 



Metathorax with a distinct fovea. A groove near front margin of 

 eye as in phijwatir. Legs dark brown, tips of anterior femora, an- 

 terior tibi;t' lieneath, and anterior tarsi, yellow. Wings hyaline, 

 iride^cejit, venation l)rown. 



Recognized among the species with a dark face, by the piceous 

 abdomen with six yellow spots, and the not entirely l)rown legs. 



i/c/i.— Santa Fe, N. M., July 25th. (Ckll., 1,(347. ) 



Perdita semicrocea n. sp. x- 



About 4 mill, long: head and thorax black, with a bronze-green 

 tint in certain lights. Thorax sparsely punctured, vertex of head 

 finely rugulose. 



Face wholly dark; antennse brown, flagellum yellowish beueath. 

 Cheeks behind eyes with white hairs. Metathorax finely rugulose. 



Abdomen above orange, deepening in tint towards apex; first seg- 

 ment mostly fu.scou3, second with an ill-defined fuscous band along its 

 si<les and hind margin, third with rudiments of such a liand. Under 

 side of abdomen orange. 



Legs with coxa; and femora, except at ends, liark. Ends of 

 femora, and whole of tibire and tarsi of anterior and mi<idle legs 

 primrose-yellow; corresponding parts of hind legs brownish. 



Wings hyaline, veins colorle-^s, stigma pale lemon-yellow. Third 

 discoidal cell distinct. 



Recognized among the S|)ecie8 with a dark face, l>y its orange 

 abdomen. 



Ff'ib. — Las Cruces, N. M., on yellow (CV)m|X)sita') Howers on cam- 

 pus of N. M. Agric, (\)llege, beginning of October, ((.'kll.. 2,500.) 



Perdita austini n. np. cf ■ 



About 3i mm. long: head and thorax shining black, head with a 

 slight greenish, metathorax with a blui.sh tinge. Crown of head 

 very finely granular. White hairs on head and thorax sparse. 

 Teguhe canary-yellow. Clypeus yellow with a niiiiute l)la(k dot on 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1H95. 



each side; side.^i of face, in front of eyes, yellow, the yellow extend- 

 ing upward about the len^'th of scape above the level of insertion of 

 anteuiuv. Scape yellow, funicle and flagelhiin yellowish below and 

 above brownish below. 



Abdomen shining, smooth, with a very few hairs near apex; sepia 

 brown, with brond, yellow bands (not reaching the lateral margin 

 on second segment) occupying the anterior halves of the 2d, .'id, and 

 4th segments, with another obscurely indicated at hind nuirgin of 

 4th. The bauds are somewhat suffused, not clean cut, at their edges. 



Underside of abdomen yellow, brownish towards the tip. Legs 

 yellow and black. Anterior tibiie and tarsi canary -yellow, femora 

 yellow with a black blotch on inner side, and mostly black without. 

 Middle legs duller, femora mostly black, tibiie partly so. Hind legs 

 with femora and tibite black except their ends, tarsi darkened. 



Wings hyaline; stigma almost, veins quite, colorless. Third (li.s- 

 coidal ab.sent. 



Recognized among the species with partly yellow face by the 

 yellow extending above level of insertion of antenna along the 

 margin of the eyes but not in the median line, and by the small size 

 and suffused tints. 



Hab. — Las Cruces, N. M., on campus of N. M. Agric. Coll., 

 September. (Ckll., 2,398.) 



Mr. Fox writes of austini that it is " near zebrata but differs by the 

 more slender legs, 2d submarginal cell narrower at the top; the head 

 retreats more rapidly behind the eyes. It differs principally from 

 ventrnlis by this latter character," 

 Perdita martini n. sp. j. 



About 4 mm. long; head and thorax dark metallic-blue 

 moderately hirsute with Avhite hairs. Crown very finely punctured. 

 Face up to level of anterior ocellus, including clypeus, entirely pale 

 primrose-yellow ; except for a black dot close to anterior margin of 

 eye on each side, as far from nearest lateral ocellus as that is from 

 the opposite lateral one. 



Antenure pale primrose-yellow, and with first 8 joints of flagellura 

 above largely dark brown. Cheeks below middle of eyes pale yellow. 



Thorax, except the minutely roughened metatborax, sparsely 

 punctured. 



Prothorax pale primrose-yellow with a median transverse metallic, 

 blue band. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15 



Abdomen with about equally broad bands of pale yellow and 

 piceous, the piceous bands being at base of 1st, at junction of Ist 

 and 2d, at distal margin of 2d and 3d, at junction of 4th and 5th, 

 and at distal margin of oth segment. 



Legs primrose-yellow, posterior tibiie and femora more or less 

 fuscous above. Wings hyaline, venation extremely pale ; outer 

 margin of .3d discoidal very faint. 



Abdomen beneath entirely yellow, tip tinged with orange. 



Recognized among the species with partly yellow face, by the yellow 

 extending upwards to the level of the anterior ocellus, and the 

 almost entirely yellow leg^^. The face is practically all yellow. 



Hab. — Las Cruces, N. M., on the College Farm, April 26th. 

 (Ckll., 731. ) 



I have venture<l to name this and the next preceding after my two 

 little s'ons, the elder of whom has gone to the undiscovered country. 



Ferdita albovittata u. sp. $. 



About 5i mm. long; head and thorax shining dark indigo-blue, 

 with the white hairs more prominent than in sexixaculata, forming 

 quite a conspicuous white pubescence on cheeks and face. Autennte 

 dark brown, paler, but still dark, towards their eiul.s. ^^aIldible8 

 brownish. Clypeus and a large patch on each side of it ivory-white; 

 clypeus with a blackish mark rather in the form of a horse-shoe, but 

 very faint medially and broadened laterally. 



Head rather sparsely punctate. Thorax very sparsely punctate. 

 Metathorax shiny, not roughened as in sexmactilata. 



Abdomen piceous, with dense, rather coarse white hairs at tip. 

 Ist segment with a deep groove, extending somewhat beyond its 

 middle. 2d and 3d segments each with a broad yellowish- white baud, 

 4th with two bands. Band on 2d segment narrowly interrupted 

 medially ; it is situated along the upper nuirgin of the segment, 

 except at sides, where it bends hindward. Band on 3d segment 

 similar, but r)nly constricted, not interrupted, medially. 1st band on 

 4th segment similar, but only notched medially on its hind margin, 

 broader, and evanescent at sides. 2d band on 4tli segment placed 

 along its hind margin, straight, anfl evanei^cent at sides; it represents 

 the band nf oth segment pushed forward. 



Underside of alnlomen piceous, with [)ale marks at side-s, resem- 

 bling the upper side of abdomen of sexmacuLtta considerably. 




16 PROCEEDINaS OF TH K ACAPK.MY OF [1895. 



l^gB hlaok. Wings hyaline with n milky tint, iridosccnt. Vena- 

 tion pale hrown. 



Recognized among the species with juirtlv white iaco, hy its denser 

 hairs on head and thorax, white hands on ahdomen, and hlack legs. 



H'lb.—Snu Augustine, N. M., August 'J9th. (Ckll., 2,270.) 

 Another example, from the same locality and taken on the same 

 day (Ckll., 2,277, a S ), differs a little, having the dark marks on 

 clypeus reiluced, niesothorax above very dark, slightly greenish, not 

 blue (metathorax and pleura blue), band of 2d segment of abdomen 

 constricted, not interrupted medially. 



Mr. Fox writes: "albovittuta also very distinct l)y dark legs, im- 

 maculate pronotum and long marginal cell." 



Ferdita nitidella n. sp. (f. 



About 4 mm. long; head and thorax greenish-blue. Face (in- 

 cluding clypeus) up to level of insertion of antennjc bright yellow, 

 furthermore, the yellow extends as much beyond the insertion of the 

 antenna' as the length of the scape, but is divided by two incursions 

 of the dark blue, which descend to the bases of the antennas their 

 sides forming right angles thereat. Antenuje yellow, funicle, flagel- 

 lum, and tip of scape more or less dark brown above. 



Head and thorax finely rugulose. Borders of prothorax, and 

 tegulge, yellow. Abdomen shiny, yellow, becoming darker towards 

 the tip, with dark brown bands. These bands are one at base of 

 1st segment and one at its distal border, these two connected by a 

 longitudinal median line; a broad one at distal border of 2d seg- 

 ment, bulging (especially posteriorly) in the middle; a linear one at 

 proximal border and a broad one at distal border of 3d segment, 

 and rather broad ones about the distal borders of 4th, 5th, and 6th 

 segments. 



Legs primrose-yellow, hind tibiai and tarsi brownish. 



Wings hyaline, iridescent, veins dark brown, 3d discoidal exces- 

 sively indistinct. 



Recognized among the species with partly yellow face, by the yel- 

 low extending over the whole of that portion of the face beneath the 

 level of the antennte, but not to the middle ocellus; by the yellow 

 legs ; and by the small size and shiny abdomen with yellow and 

 brown bands. 



Hab — Las Cruces, N. M., on the campus of the Agricultural 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILAOELPHIA. 17 



College, September. (Ckll., 2,405.) Another speciiiieu had previ- 

 ously been takeu at Las Cruces, by Prof. C. H. T. Towusend. 



Mr. Fox writes: "nitidella is new, unless the S of some known 

 species, which, however, I thiuk unlikely." I do not myself enter- 

 tain any serious doubts as to the validity of the species. 



Perdita oanina n. sp. ^. 



About 5 mm. long; head and thorax dark metallic-blue, the 

 white pubescence moderately abundant. Crown of head minutely 

 granular, with punctures intei-spersed, showing that the granulations 

 do not represent minute punctures of the ordinary sort. 



Clypeus yellowish-white, this color extending upwards to level of 

 antennie and there abruptly truncate, with a slight indentation in the 

 middle. On each side this is touched by a heart-shaped spot situated 

 beneath the antenniie, the whole so placed as to suggest the head of 

 a hound, with drooping ears, seen from behind. A minute, black 

 dot on each side of clypeus, as in austini. Besides these markings 

 a narrowing band of yellow borders the eyes in front, coming to a 

 point a little above the level of the antennie. Antennie yellow be- 

 neath and black above. 



Thorax shiny, sparsely punctured, teguliv pale yellow. 



Abdomen yellow and dark sepia- brown; 1st segment brown; 2d 

 and 3d segments, with the disc broadly yellow, margined with brown, 

 this margin not covering tiie sides, which are yellow at the angles. 

 4th segment yellow witli its upper margin brown, the brown extend- 

 ing hindward at the sides to about the niiddle of the segment. 

 Just below this brown margin, medially, is a minute dot of brown. 

 Hind margin of 4th segment narrowly brown, with a squarish l)rowu 

 mark on each side about half-way between lateral margin and cen- 

 tre. 5th segment yellow, very narrowly margine<l with brown aliove 

 at centre, and with a brown spot on each side near lateral margin, 

 and near hind margin a pair of brown marks representing the 

 squarish marks of previous segment. Remaining segments yellow. 

 Abdomen shiny, obscurely punctate. 



Legs yellow marked with black ; anterior femur and iil)ia cacli 

 with a black patch behind; middle femur with an obliqiu' black 

 patch beliind, niiddh- tibia mostly black, middle tarsus pale l)rownish. 

 Hind femur with a large elongated black patch above, hind tibia 

 and tarsus blackish. 




1^ PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Willie's hyaline, veins dark brown, stignin niaririiicd with hrowii, 

 3(1 iliseoidal very weak. 



Abdomen beneath yellow, the anterior niarj^ins of the segments 

 narrowly black. 



/fai.— .Santa F^, N. M. , July 19th. (I'kll., 1,572 and 1,571.) 



Mr. Fox writes: ''canina may be the (fof zebrata, although I had 

 previously referred two $ spcimens, diHereiit from yours, to that 

 species. ' ' 



There was taken, however, at Santa Ft' (Ckll., 1,270, July ."jtlij 

 a specimen of which Mr. Fox write-s: "No. 1,270 I had named as 

 P. nlbipenn!s, but I now iind it differs from that species and is per- 

 haps the 9 of canina." 



This example differs principally from oinitia ( $) by the face mark- 

 ings being white; the clypeus not entirely pale, but with the pale color 

 terminating on its upper half in three projections; the yellowish above 

 the clypeus represented by a pair of oval, white marks; the dog's-ear- 

 like marks absent ; the 1st segment of abdomen with a narrow in- 

 terrupted band, the bands on the other segments continuous in the 

 middle ; antenna? darker; size larger. 



I think this is a distinct (and new) species, but it may be wiser to 

 leave it unnamed until its relationship with canina can be made 

 clearer. In P. albipennis, the sexes differ very much in the colora- 

 tion of the abdomen, but I find the face markings practically the 

 same in S and 9 . Hence it seems likely that the dog's-head 

 markings are characteristic of mnma in either sex. In its face mark- 

 ings, this 9 form is intermediate between canina and albipennis, but 

 quite different from both. 



Perdita foxi n. sp. ^. 



About 5 mm. long or slightly more ; bead and thorax very dark 

 blue; face mostly yellow. Abdomen black. Legs rufous. The 

 white pubescence reduced to a minimum, though sufficiently evident, 

 if scattered, on the posterior tibiie and tip of abdomen. 



Head almost exactly circular; vertex finely roughened, clypeus 

 distinctly punctate. Mandibles large, canary-yellow inclining to 

 orange, with piceous tips. Clypeus quite prominent, canary- yellow 

 with a black dot on each side. In addition to the clypeus, the whole 

 of the face is canary-yellow up to the level of the insertion of the 

 antenme; the yellow at the sides, just before the eyes, extenrling .still 

 further upward, in a broad band which is deeply notched at its ex- 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



tremity, the termination of this band being about (or hardly) as far 

 above the level of the insertion of the antenna? as the length of the 

 scape. Cheeks yellow. Antennae dull chrome-yellow, funicle and 

 flagelluni blackened above. 



Thorax, seen from above, much the shape of a Goodale pear (see 

 Downing), metathorax abruptly truncate and rapidly descending, 

 rugulose. 



Lateral margin of prothorax yellow. Tegulse pale testaceous. 

 Legs pale rufous, or one might say brownish- orange. 



Wings hyaline, beautifully iridescent, veins and stigma distinct, 

 dark (sepia) brown. The recurrent and trausverso-cubitai nervures 

 more or less broken by hyaline spots. 3d discoidal distinct. Mar- 

 ginal about as long as stigma. 



Abdomen pitch-black, shiny, hind margins of 3d and 4th seg- 

 ments obscurely brownish. 



Recognized by its black abdomen and orange- rufous legs; nearest 

 to n'dklella in its face markings, but still quite distinct. 



flaft.— Santa F6, N. M., June 25th. (Ckll., 1,096.) 



Mr. Fox remarks that this is "very distinct and new." I owe to 

 him the opportunity of describing it, as I had sent it to him before I 

 became interested in the genus, and he kindly returned it that it 

 might be included in the present paper. 




20 PBOCEEDINQS OF THR ACADEMY OF [1895. 



NOTES ON SOME SPECIMENS OF PYRENOMYCETES IN THE SCHWEINITZ 

 HERBARIUM OF THE ACADEMY. 



BY J. B. ICLLIS. 



Some time (iurin«x the past year (1894) there was found in the 

 Herhariura of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, a 

 packajj^e that had lain uimoticed for many years. The package 

 wjis found to contain many of the missing specimens mentioned in 

 the preface to The North Am. Pyrenomycetes. These specimens are 

 evidently authentic and reliable, the writing on the papers in which 

 they are wrapped being in Schweinitz's own hand, with the 

 abbreviation L. v. 8.' after the names of the species described by him. 

 In only a few cases are the habitats given, but almost all are 

 marked as collected either at Bethlehem, Pa., or Salem, N. C. 

 They are all very small — many of them old and without fruit. 



From a careful examination of the specimens the following notes 

 were made to enable one to recognize some of the Schweinitzian 

 species that have hitherto been only imperfectly understood. Dr. 

 Karl Starbiick in his " Studier i Elias Fries Svamparherbarium:" 

 Bihaug till K. Sveuska Vet. Akad. Handl., Baud 19, Afd. Ill, No. 

 2, 1894, has also examined some of the specimens noted and his 

 observations agree with those here recorded: — 



Chaetomium olivaoeum C. & E., Grev., VI, p. 96. 

 Sphccria Douglasii Schw., in Herb. Schw. 



On dead herbaceous stems. Shores of Lake Huron (Prof. Doug- 

 las). Coram. Dr. Torrey. 



Venturia oincinnata Fr., Summ. Veg. Scand., p. 405. 

 Sphcrria cincinnata Fr., S. M., II, p. 451. 



Perithecia clustered, ovate- glolwse, 150// diam., clothed with 

 black, spreading spines 25-40 x A-h',i.. Asci subsessile, clavate-cylin- 

 drical, 40-50 x S-10", paraphysate. The specc. were not fully ma- 

 ture and the sporidia could not be accurately tnade out. 



On the lower surface of leaves of Vaccinmm. Bethlehem, Pa. 



(Schw.). 



' L. V. S. is the abbreviation used by Schweinitz to indicate his name : 

 Ludoviius von Schweinitz. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



Lasiosphaeria setosa (Schw.). 



Sphcsria setosa Schw., Syn. N. Aui., 1.5,'i3. 



Perithecia gregarious, superficial, ovate-conical, about I nim. high 

 and \ mm. broad, clothed except the black, entire or subsulcate, ob- 

 tuse ostiolum, with tuberculiform tufts of matted hairs among which 

 arise other, darker, longer hairs. A.^ci elongated, narrowed above, 

 short-stipitate, paraphysate, 8-spored, 100-120x12-15". Sporidia 

 biseriate, cylindrical, hyaline, nucleate, curved near the lower end, 

 45-55 X 4-5//; about the same as in L. hirxuta. 



On rotten wood, Bethlehem, Pa. (Schw. ). 



Lasiosphaeria emergens (Schw.). 



Sphcsria emergens Schw., Syn. N. Am., 1,534. 



Mycelium of brown, branching threads septate and undulate, l>ear- 

 ing terminally \z\\<\ laterally)? yellowish-brown, globose couidia 12- 

 15.V. diam. with coarsely granular contents. Sjioridia nearly .straight, 

 cylindrical, hyaline, 28-32 x 4//, apparently becoming o-septate. 



Differs from L. Rhacodiian in its ovate-conical perithecia. 



Chsetosphseria squamulata (.Schw.). 



Sphceria squamata Scliw., .Syn. N. Am., 1,5.38. 



Melanomnia squamulata Y.. li E., N. A. Pyr., p. 184. 



Sphcrria squamata in Herb. Schw. 



ChcElosphceria squamulata .Starbiick, Studier i Elias Fr. Svanip. Herb., p. 31. 



When the N. A. P. was published we had not seen an authentic 

 8j>ec. of this species, which is accurately de.scribed by Starbiick, I.e., 

 the description there given applying perfectly to the spec, in Herb. 

 Schw. This spec, however, is labeled Spharia ^'sfjiiaviata" L. v. S., 

 instead of t^quamnhita as given in Syn. N. Am. with the added note 

 "olim .S'. fiisrosjiora/^ 



Herpotriohia difEusa (Schw.) var. rhodomphala 15. i: ('. 



Spliii-ria diffusa S<-hw., .Syn. N. Am., l..")ii'J. 



Splurria rlmdompliala Herk. Iluok., Lond. Joiirn. Hot., IV, p. 212. Spti. tris- 



tis in n»rb. .^cbw. 

 Ampliisplucria sut)iculitsa K. & K., .Journ. .Mycol., II, p. 103. 

 Neopeikia diffusa Starback, Stud, i Elias FricH Svanip. liirb., Vet. .\kad 



Handl.. IHJM. 

 Didvmotrichia diffusa HciKsc. in the Proc. of the Iiit«rnati<>nal Hot. tk)n- 



"gress. IhJW. 



The «[)ecc. distril»ut<'d in Ell. it Evrht's N. A. F., 2, 1'.'JO, ditJer 

 from the Schweinit/ian ."pec. in having the perithecia snialliT (about 

 \ mm. ), ami less crowded, and in their ratlitT .-niiillcr, Ich.s distinctly 

 constricted s|)()ridia. The.se differences, however, seem Iianlly to be 

 of specific value, all the other characters being the same, and it seems 




-- PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OK [1895. 



hotter to put the N. A. F. spccc. as a mere var. of that in Herb, 

 Sohw., viz., var. rhodomphala Berk. Sphccria rhodoviphula Berk., 1. c. 



Rosellinia araneosa (Pcrs. ). 



S/>h<rrij araneosa Pors., loon, et descr., 1, p. 24, tab. VII, fiK- fi. "-A. 

 Rosellinia araneosa Sacc, Syll., I, p, 259, 



Perithecia crowded in eloufjated groups \-\ cm. h)n<^, 3-4 mm. 

 wide, j^lohose, papillate, J mm. <liam. Sporidia (free spores) in- 

 equilaterally elliptical, brown, continuous, 7-9 x 5-6/'. 



Has the external aspect of RmeUinia mednUarlx (Wallr. ), from 

 which it differs iu its rather smaller perithecia and very different 

 sporidia. 



Rosellinia thelena Fr., var. terrestris. 

 S/>h.rria /errcs/ris Schw. in Ilirh. 



Perithecia depressed-globo.se, grayish-brown, smooth, with a dis- 

 tinct papilliform ostiolura, greg.nrious, or crowded, about 5 mm. 

 diam., connected at base by a thin, brown subiculum of matted 

 hairs. Asci (p. sp.) 130 x 6/', paraphysate, 8-spored. Sporidia 

 overlapping-uniseriate, oblong - fusoid, deep brown, continuous, 

 .straight, 22-25 x 5-7,"., with a straight, hyaline, raucronateappend- 

 age at each end. 



On the ground. New York State (Schw.). 



Melanomma exile (Schw,). 

 Spht^ria exile, Schw, in Herb, Schw. 



Perithecia Scattered, erumpent-superficial, black, minute, 120- 



150,''. diara., finally slightly collapsed. Ostiolum conic- papilliform. 



The asci could not be made out but sporidia (free spores) were 



abundant, oblong-elliptical, 13-16x5-6''., 3-septatc and brown, 



occasionally with one or two cells divided by a longitudinal septum. 



The subiculum (arachnoid, whitish) is hardly perceptible. The 



perithecia, if pilose at all, are very indistinctly so. 



Rosellinia medullaris (Wallr.), 



Sphtxria medullaris Wallr., Fl. Crypt. Germ,, II, p. 792. 



The spec, in Herb. Schw. labeled Sphceria mammiformis is this 

 species. The perithecia are too small for B. mamwiforviis, and dis- 

 tinctly ovate. The purplish pruinose pubescence is also distinctly 

 to be seen. Sporidia oblong or oblong-elliptical, often subinequi- 

 lateral, 18-22 x 8-10,". 



Rosellinia rhodomela (Schw. ), not Ft. 



Perithecia gregarious, superficial, minute (200,'/), ovate or sub. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



globose, with a papilliform ostiolum soon perforated, seated on a red 

 subiculum and clothed with a thin, dirty rose-colored, piilveraceo- 

 tomentose coat. The mycelium is very thin and scanty and the 

 wood is stained red in the part occupied by the perithecia. The 

 substance of the perithecia themselves also has a reddish tint. Asci 

 cylindrical, p. sp. 68-75 x H", short-stipitate, 8-spored, paraphy- 

 sate. Sporidia uniseriate, elliptical or subgjobose, opake, 8-12 x 



Bosellinia imposita Schw. 



Splusria imposita Schw., .Syn. N. Am., 1.503. 



This differs from i?. ftquila only in the scanty subiculum. 



Sporidia oblong, continuous, brown, 18-24 x 6-8.'i. 



Cerat08tomella investita (S<hw. ). 



SphiTria inz'eslila .Schw.. in Herb. Fries. 

 Sphjcria investita in .Schw. .Syn. N. Am.. 1,621? 

 Sphceria vestita .Schw., in Herb. Schw. 

 Ceratostomella inveslila Starback, 1. c. 



Perithecia irregarious, immersed, or partly su|)erfirial, 400"diam., 

 beset around the lower part with slender, black, .<eptate hairs 80-120 

 X 3,'/, and pubescent with shorter, finer hairs above. Ostiola cylin- 

 drical, 1 mm. or more long, erumpent through a felt-like brownish- 

 yellow tomentum overspreading the surface of the wood. 



Asci cylindrical, 60-65 x 6-7/*, with a short stipe, p. sp. 50-60". 

 long. Paraphyses none. Sporidia uni.seriate, or subbiseriate above, 

 ol)long-ellii»tiral, 6-8 x 84//, hyaline, 2-nucli'ate. 



There can be no doubt that this is the same as the spec, examined 

 by Starbiick, in Herb. Fries, but it doe.** not agree entirely with the 

 (liagno.<is given by Schweinitz, iw the ostiola are not "sulcate-tuber- 

 culose," nor are they " thickened above. " The spec, from Herb. 

 Schw. wa.s labeled " >S/>//rrmt vesfifn'^ L. v. S., and was on rotten 

 wood, Bethlehem Pa., "vestita" being apparently a laj).<us calami 

 tor invcilifii. 



AmphiBphaeria papilla (.Schw.). 



.S7>//.r; /</ /)(7/>;7/(j Schw., .Syn. Car., l.iH. 

 Mflattnpsanima papilla iSiliw. ), N. A. I'yr.. p. 17H. 



Perithecia conic- heminplierical, with the ba.'<e slightly sunk in the 

 wood, \-\ mm. diam. with a di.stinct conic- papilliform ostiolum. Asci 

 cylindrical, short-stipitate, paraphysate, p. sp. 100-12((x 12-15//. 

 .HiK)ridia overlapping- uniseriate, fu.«oid-ol»long, Bul»ine(|uilateral, 

 brown, uniseptate, sliglitly constricted, 25-82 x M-12/i. 



On rotten wood, Bethlehem, Pa. 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF THK ACADEMY OF [1895. 



This has the outward appearance of the epecc. on wliite oak bark, 

 mentioned in N. A. Pyr., p. 178, but the n.sci and sporidia are 

 smaller, and tlie latter are brown. Notwithstanding these disorep- 

 ancift?, the Newfield spece. are no doubt referal)le to SpJuvria papilla 

 Schw. 



Trematosphaeria mastoidea (Fr.). 



Starluick, 1. c, gives as svn. of this species: Splurria albicans 

 Schw., 8vn. Car., 176, and Sphceria obterta, Schw., Syn. Car., 206. 



The spec, in Herb. Schw. is entirely without fruit. 



Spharia deiiudans Schw., Syn. N. Am., 1,02"), is apparently a 

 Tremalosphnria, but the spec, in Herb. Schw. is old, and the peri- 

 thecia mostly broken down. A few free spores were seen, oblong, 

 dark brown, 8- septate, 20-22 x 7-8;/. 



Trematosphaeria applanata (Fr. ). 



Splurria applanata Fr., S. M.. II. p. 463 (in part at least). 

 Splurria app/a na/a Ondcm., Anwinst. Myc. Xcder., 187.5-1876, p. 11. 

 Splurria Asper^rtiiii Fr., in Herb. Seluv. 

 Trematosphirria applanata Sacc, Syll., II, p. 120. 



From the spec, in Herb. Schw. the following diagnosis has been 

 made: — 



Perithecia scattered, erumpent-superficial, depressed-hemispherical, 

 170-200//. diam., becoming more or less collapsed above, with a 

 papilliform ostiolum. Asci oblong-cylindrical, short-stipitate, p. 

 sp. 75-80 X 18-22//, paraphysate, 8-spored. Sporidia obliquely 

 uniseriate, or biseriate, clavate-oblong, 4-5- (mostly 4-) septate, 

 and finally constricted at the septa, 24-30 x 7-9//, surrounded with 

 a hyaline envelope. 



This is certainly different from Treinatosph(£ria applanata (Fr.), 

 Fckl. SymboUe Myc, p. 162, N. Am. Pyr., p. 206, which is an 

 Amphl.<phferia, having uniseptate sporidia broader below, while this 

 has 4-5-septate sporidia narrower below. Apparently it is the J:ame 

 as that described by Oudemans, 1. c, though he says nothing of the 

 hyaline envelope, which is very distinct in the Schwcinitzian spec. 



Trematosphaeria astroidea (Fr.)? 



Splurria astroidea Fr. ? (in Herb. Schw.). 



Perithecia gregarious, superficial ovate-globose, black, with a few, 

 short, spreading, bristle-like hairs around the base., Ostiolum 

 minute, acutely conical. Asci not seen. Sporidia oblong-fusoid, 

 3-4-septate, pale-brown, 12-15 x 3-3^//. 



On rotten wood, Bethlehem, Pa. (Schweiuitz;. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25 



Trematosphaeria confertula (Schw. ). 



Sphcrria con/trtula Schw., Syn. X. Am., 1.508. 



Perithecia densely crowded, seated on a felt-like brown sul)icuhim 

 and clothed below with straight, septate, bristle-like brown hairs, 

 globose, about \ mm. diam., finally collapsing to cup-shaped. Asci 

 clavate-cylindrical, stipitate, para|)hy.-ate, 8-spore<l, p. sp. 60-67 x 

 12,'/. Sporidia biseriate, oblong, slightlv curved, hyaline and uni- 

 septate at first, becoming brown and 8-scptate but not constricted, 

 18-22x6-7,'/ 



Whether this is the same as Amphhyierin conferia Schw., in N. A. 

 • P., p. 206, is doubtful. The sjiec. referred to in 8yn. Car. was on 

 bark of Sassafras, and is described as having the perithecia depressed 

 at the ai>ex, while in the Bethlehem spec, here described, they are 

 deeply collap^tid. Dr. ( ooke who examined a 8|)ec. from Carolina, 

 in Herb. Berk., found the sporidia uniseptate, 12 x 4,-'. Probably 

 the Carolina t^pec. is a different thing from the Bethlehem 8{)ec. , 

 though Schweinitz in Syn. N. Am. considers them the same. 



On rotten wood, Bethlehem, Pa. (Schw. ). 



Trematosphaeria Schweinitzii K. & K. 



Perithecia gregarious, semiemergent or erumpent-superficial, \-^ 

 mm. diam., ovate-conical, gradually attenuated above into the conical 

 or short-cylindrical ostiolum, or when erumpent, depressed- globose 

 with tuberculo-papilliform ostiolum, roughish and brownish-black. 

 Asci cylindrical, .<tipitate, paraphysate, p. sp. about 00x8-10,". 

 6iK)ri(lia overlapping- uniseriate, fusoid, brown, 3-septate and con- 

 stricted at the middle septum, the end cells attenuated to an obtuse 

 point and a little paler, 19-22 x r)-6,''. 



On dead canes of Kiibus, Bethlehem, Pa., Schw. (in Herb.), un- 

 der the name of Sjtharia rostellatu Fr. 



Teiohospora tenacella (Fr. ). 



Sphcrria tenacella Fr.. .S. M., II. p. Wri. 



T'erithecia .subseriate, scmierunipent through longitudiiuil cracks 

 in the epiderrni.", subglobo.'^'. .smooth, al>out \ mm. diam., (iiuilly 

 collajwing above. Asci not seen. Sjwridia oblong or obloiig-dlip- 

 tical, brown, the end cells paler, .'i-5 (mostly 8-) septate, with a 

 more or le-ns continuous longitudinal septum, 20-26x10-11.". In 

 the oblong ajioridia there are mo.stly only the three transverse septa 

 with constrictions at each septum, but in the oblong-elliptical s|)oridia, 

 3 




26 im{()ci:ki)Ings-<>k tick acadkmv ok [1895. 



which make up the ^^reater munher, there is a sinj^le longitudinal 

 septum and no (•onstricli<tns. 



On small, dead limbs, Bethlehem, Pa., Schw. 

 Amphispheeria nobilis (S^-hw.). 



Spfurt ia tiobilis Schw. in Herb. Scliw. 



Perithecia superficial, ovate- glohuse, Mack, 850-400" diara., 

 glabrous, with an acutely papillitorm ostiolum. Asci clavate- 

 cyliudricul, short-stipitate, paraphysate, 75-80x12-15,", 8-5«p<)red, 

 Sporidia crowded-biseriate, oblon;,f-t'usoid, slightly curved, obtuse, 

 brown, uniseptate, scarcely constricted, each (;ell with a large nucleus, 

 18-22 X 6-7,". 



The base of the perithecia is only slightly sunk in the surface of 

 the wood, but there is nothing to indicate that they ever become 

 movable. 



On rotten wood, Salem, N. C. (Schw.). 



Lophiostoma tingens (Schw.). 



Spiicrria iinsfcns Schw., Syn. N. Am., 1,591. 



Perithecia entirely buried in the wood, ovate-globose, about t mm. 

 diam., subcompressed, neck flattened witli the obtusely conical, sub- 

 tubercular, stout; ostiolum erumpent and only slightly compressed. 

 Asci clavate- cylindrical, short- sti pi tate, 110-120 x 15-18/^, 8-spored, 

 with abundant, filiform paraphyses. Sporidia biseiiate or oblique, 

 broad-fusoid, hyaline, becoming brownish, 4-6- (mostly 5-) septate, 

 22-30 X 6-7//. 



On decorticated, weather-beaten wood of Sassafras, Bethlehem, 

 Pa. 



This, of course, is very different from Lophidium tingens (Ell.), 

 in N. A. P., p. 235. 



Lophiostoma Spiraeae (Schw.). 



Sphczrja SpircecE and Splusria crenala Schw. in Herb. Schw. 

 Sph<xria crenala Pers., var. SpircecB Schw., Syn. N. Am., 1,599. 

 Lophiostoma SpircECE Pk. 28th Rep., p. 76. 



The diagnosis of Lophiostoma Spiraea, as given in N. Am. Pyr., 

 p. 232, fits the Schweinitzian specimen exactly. 



Sec. Schw. ; very common on dead branches of Spircece opulifolia, 



Bethlehem, Pa. , and Salem, N. C. 



Calosphaeria assecla (Schw.). 



Spherria assecla Schw., Syn. N. Am., 1,622. 

 Valsa pulchelloidea C. & E., Grev., VI, p. 92. 



The diagnosis of Calosphoiria pulchelloidea fits the Schweinitzian 



specimen of Sphceria assecla Schw. perfectly. Valsa microtheca, C. 



& E., 1. c, is hardly more than a scattered, dwarf form. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27 



Cr7ptosphaeria pastula (Fr. ). 



Sphccria pxtula Fr., S. M.. II, p. 483. 

 Spfueria secreta C. & E. , Grev. , V. p. 94. 



Crytosph^ria secreta (C. & E.) Saw., SvU.. No. 688, and Ell. & Evrht., N. A. 

 Pyr., p. 514. 



The Schweiuitzian spec, shows uo asci, but the perithecia, liahit, 



and sporidia are the same as in Spharin secreta, C. & E., leaving no 



doubt that the latter is the same as Sphceria pcztuhi (Fr. ) if, as 



seems probable, the spec, in Herb. Schw. is reliable. 



Pseudovalsa occulta (Schw.) 



Spfueria occulta in Herb. Schw. 



Stroma cortical, orbicular, not circumscribed, 2-3 mm. diam., 

 convex. Perithecia 1-5 in a stroma, ^'-l mm. diam., t,dobo»e, their 

 bases slightly sunk in the surface of the wood, ascigerous nucleus 

 light colored. Ostiola obscure, erurapent in a small black disk, 

 which is orbicular or narrowly and trausvertJely elliptical, slightly 

 raising ami {>erforating the epidermis and closely embraced by it. 

 Asci broad clavate-cylindrical, 180-210 x 20-30,'- (including the 

 very short stipe, 8-spored, with filiform, sparingly branched or mostly 

 simple paraphyses. Sporidia biseriate, broad- fusoid-oblong, obtuse, 

 3-septate, 45-62 x 13-16.-'., hyaline, becoming brownish. 



Di tiers from P. malbrancheana Sacc. in its 8-spored asci and only 



3-septate sporidia not hyaline at the ends. 



Diatrypella obscurata (Schw.). 



Sphcrria ohscurata Schw. (in Herb.). 



Perithecia large (J mm.), either lying singly, or 2-6 together in 

 a sul)futicular stroma 2— 6 mm. diam., black and rough outside, 

 white within, blackening the surface of the wood which is also deeply 

 {K'netrated by a dark, circumscribing line enclosing several .^tromata. 

 Asci clavate, 75-80 x 12-15//, p. sp. about 50,", long, polysporous. 

 Sporidia irregularly crowded, yellow in the mass, hyaline when seen 

 singly, allantoid, moderately curved, with a nucleus near each end, 

 5-6 X U,". 



On limbs of some shrub or tree, Bethlehem, Pa., Schw. 

 Hypoxylon annalatam (.Scliw./ Mont. 



Spfurria annulata S<-hw. in littrrisad Fries. See Fr. Elencli., II, p. fi4. 



Spiucria annulata B. deprr<:<;a Fr., 1. c. 



Sphteria truncata Schw. in lilt. Fr. Elech., 1. c, but (see. P'riea) not Sphcrria 

 truncata Schw. in Syn. (iir. 



Hypoxylun annulatum .Mont.. Syll. Oypt.. p. 213. 



The spec, of Splueria trunr/ita Schw. from Herb. Schw. agrees 

 perfectly with sf)ecc. of Ffifpoxylon annulatum distributed in Ell. & 

 Evrht' s N. Am. Fungi. 2d Series, 2,353. 




2H PKOCKKDINOS UK THK ACADKMY oK [1895 



Phoma pyrina (Schw.). 

 S/>h<eria Pyrina Soliw. in Herb. Scliw. 



Perithecia thickly srattered, suhepidormal, small ( 1 nun. ), linnlly 

 rupturing the epidermis hut not pruminent. Sporules hyaline, cora- 

 pressed; when viewed in front, ovate, 5-6 x .'|" ; seen edgewise, allan- 

 toid, 5-6 X 1-1 1/'. 



On dead apple tree limbs, Bethlehem, Pa. (Schw.). 



Phoma Samararum Desin. 

 Sphieria Samarce Schw., Syn. N. Am., 1,703. 



On Samaroe of Fraxinm, Bethlehem, Pa. (Schw. ). 

 Starhiick (1. c. ) also finds a SpJueropsis on the spec, of Sph(eria 

 Samarfr, in Herb. Fries. 



Phoma tageticola (Schw.). 



Spliirria tageticola Schw., Syn. N. Am., 1,729. 

 Phoma herbariim, var. tageticola Starbiick, 1. c, p. 52. 



Perithecia aggregated or solitary, papillate, white inside, globose- 

 depressed. Sporules cylindrical, hyaline, 2-3- nucleate, obtuse, 8-12 

 X 2-3//. 



Vermicularia Cacti (.Schw.). 



Sphcrria Ca<:// Schw., Syn. Car., 227. 



I'^errnicularia Cacti (Schw.). Starbiick, 1. c, p. 63, with a full description. 



The specc. in Herb. Schw. are evidently a Vermicularia, but too 

 |)Oorly developed to allow of an accurate diagnosis. 



Sphaeropsis Taxi (Schw. ). 



Sphceria Taxi Schw. in Herb. 

 Sphcpropsis Taxi Berk., Outlines, p. 316. 

 Phoma TaxiSaec, Syll., Ill, p. 128. 



Perithecia subcuticular, small (200 mm.), finally perforated, the 

 papilliform ostiolum erumpent. Sporules oblong-elliptical, brown, 

 continuous, 17-20 x 8-10//. 



On dead leaves of Taxus, Bethlehem, Pa. (Schw. ). 



Sphceria Taxi, Sow., sec. De Not. is a Diplodia. 



Sphaeropsis Schweinitzii E. & E. 

 Sphceria caulium Schw. (in Herb.). 



On dead herbaceous stems, Bethlehem, Pa., Schw. 



Perithecia erumpent-superficial, hemispherical, rough, k-h mm. 

 diam. , with a papilliform ostiolum. Sporules oblong-elliptical, 

 brown, with a single large nucleus, 15-20 x 8-10//. 




1895.] NATLKAI. SCIKNCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29 



Sphaeropsis Sumachi (Scliw.) C. & E. 

 Sphccria Su mac /i i Schw., Syn. X. Am.. 1.425. 

 Sphcrria subsolilaria Schw. in Herb. Schw. 

 Sphcrropsis Sumachi Q. & E., Grev.. V. p. 31, pi. 75. tig. 11. 



The.-e are all pvcnidia of Splufrla ambir/ua Schw., Syn. N. Am., 



1,492= B(ifri/o.yjh(eria fiili(/inos't ( M. tt N. ). See N. A. Pvr. , p. 546. 



Sphaeropsis Euborum (.Sthw.). 



Sp/icT/ia Ruboinm .Stliw., Syn. N. Am.. l.(j"7. 

 Sphcrropsis rubicola C. & E., Grev., VI, p. 2. pi. !t5. fig. 2. 



The spec, in Herh. Schw. affords no spores ; hut Starhiick 1 1. c.) 



finds specc. of Sjilurrid Rnborum Schw. in Ilt-rh. Fr. , which are 



identical with specc. of Splmropsis ni/ilrola V. ik E. 



Sphaeropsis pericarpii (.S<hw.). 

 Sp/ia-ria peric-arpii iii-hw..iiyii. N. Am., l,.'i!K). 

 Spluxropsis periiarpii I'k. 25th Kep., j). 85. 

 Spharopsis Carycv V. & E.. Grev., V, p. .52? 

 Sphirria i >i Z'o / u rri fichw. in Herb. ."^chw.V 



Oil pericarp of hickory nuts, Bethlehem, Ta. (Schw.), N. Yt)rk 

 State (Peckj, New Jersey (Ellis). 



In the Schweinitzian spec, of »S'. hivolucri, some of the sporules 

 are uuiseptate, but the greater number are without septa. The 

 sporules in all the above quoted specc. arc about 20-25 x 10-12;'. 



Discosia placentula (.Sihw.). 



SpluTria plactntula Schw. in Herb. 



Di.scoid, orbicular, about •} mm. diam. , black, .somewhat wrinkled, 

 umbilicate- depressed in the center, the papilliform ostiolum seated 

 in the center of the depres-sion. Sporules oblong-cylindrical, slightly 

 curved, hyaline, faintly 4-nucleate, 10-13 x lA-2'/, with an ol>li<iue, 

 hyaline, slender bri.stle at each end about as long as the spore itself. 



Dn some decaying leaf i Tiliaj?, Bethlehem, Pa. (Schweinitz.). 



Sphcrria fihriseda Sehw., Syn. N. Am., 1,542. 



Pcrithecia globose or oftener suboblong, 55-75'> diam., very 

 abundant but entirely sterile — no asci or sixjridia. Apparently an 

 al)ortive Xectria. 



Sphcrria I'iridiafra Schw., Syn. N, Am., I,.^". 



The perithecia are immature, but to all outward appearance, thia 



is, as stated in N. A. P., p. 748, Calonertria vhlorinella Cke. 



Sphitria palina Yr. (in llirb. S<'hw.). 



Cytiipora cxasprrati^ E, »t E. in I'tcn:. .\rii<l. Nat. ."^ci. I'liil., Nov. 1SH4, p, 

 3<M), i.s the Hanie ii.s this. 



Sec Starhiick, 1. c, p. 59, Sftlmrin jialiiin Fr. , Inlon^fs to the 

 Frie.sian genus (Untininw. 




30 PRlK'IOKDINaS OK THK ACADKMY OK [1895. 



" Peritliecia loiwelv ^re<;ari()iif, (n'spito.^eor sulx'onlluoiit, sul)<;l()l)()3e 

 at first, then oruinpent-superticiiil, depressed-cylindrical, or iilniost 

 thick-discoid, with n large, irregular opening; almost riniose-dehis- 

 cent, black, about 150.'' hi^di and 250," broad. Sporules cylindrical, 

 straight, hyaline, 7-10 x 2-2*/', borne tonuinally or laterally on 

 filiform hasidia of various length." 



From the above diagnosis it is plain that the Splidrin paliua in 

 Herb. Schw. is quite distinct from Spluvria paHnn Fr. 



Sphceria GossyPii Schw., Syn. Car. 207. 



This is an obscure thing. The inner membrane of the cotton 

 boll is wrinkled or rDUghciicd in drying so as to give the appearance 

 of minute perithecia, but there is no fruit or even any real perithecia. 



Sphceria/raxicola Schw., Syn. N. Am., 1,787. 



The spec, has the aspect of Sphwrella niacidifonnlK, but is entirely 

 sterile. 



Sphteria vili-f Fr., in Herb. Schw., is Ohleria modeMa, Fckl., and 

 quite different from SpJueria vilis, Fr. , in Fr. S. M., II, p. 466. See 

 Ell. & Evrht., N. A. Pyr., p. 217. 



SphiTtia strict a Pers., Syn., p. 59. 



There are two specc. ; one with scattered, buried perithecia (Cera- 

 todoma cirrhom (Pers. ), the other with clustered, superficial peri- 

 thecia. The latter may be Ceratodomella stricta, but the perithecia 

 are empty and broken, only the lower part remaining. 



Sphtvria inamillana Fr. in Her)). Scliw. 



The spec, so labeled is the same sis Myxosporunii nUiduin B. & C. 



Spheria Tilice Schyt., in Herb. Schw. and SphcRria distlncta Schw. , 

 Syn. North Am., 1,655, are (sec. specc. in Herb. Schw.) only the 

 sterile pycnidia of Melancoyiis Tilvv Tul., or of J/, tillacea (Ell.). 



tSplurrid Polygonati Schw., Syn. N. Am., 1,798, is a young and 

 undeterminable Vermicularla. 



Sphasria AndromedtT Hchw., Syu. N. \m.. l,79ti. 



Perithecia subcuticular, minute, thickly scattered over the lower 

 side of the leaf, not in spots. 



Old and without fruit of any sort. 




1895.] 



NATCKAIj sciences of PHILADELPHIA. 



31 



The following .species a.s represented in Herb. Schvv. are undeter- 

 minable ; either old, immature, or jiterile, viz: — 



Sphcei'ia aggregata Schw. Sphirria lilariua Schw. 



" alhocrustata ' ' 



" andromedicoln " 



ttpertiuscnla 



Asclepiadis 



boletlcola 



castanicola 



cinercLscen^ 



drcumscissa 



Conii 



Cueit rbilacea rum 



Daphriidts 



herbicola 



inc(inesce)is 



Juglandin 



Sphirria lilariua 

 moricola 

 navicularis 

 nigreUa 

 nigrocincta 

 ohsifa 

 Panici 

 pruiiia 

 puiiciung 

 rndU 



scapincola 

 seriata 

 subbuUans 

 subseriatii 




,32 PR(H"KKl>IN(fS OK THK ACADKMY oK [1895. 



DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW MAMMALS FROM FLORIDA AND SOUTHERN 



CALIFORNIA. 



BY HAMUEL N. RHOAD8. 



1. Atalapha borealis seminola siibsi). iiov. Type, ad. ^ , No. ($49, Col. of S. N. 

 Khoads, Tarpon SpriiiRS, Hernando Co., Florida. Col. by VV. S. Dirkinson, 

 July 12. 1892. 



Descn}>tion. — Somewhat smaller tliaii ^1. borenUs with a relatively 

 larger foot. Body colors above, from crown to tip of tail, iiicliKliug 

 ears, feet, interfemoral membrane and hairy spaces at upper base of 

 pollex and on proximal upper margins of the fifth metacarpal, uni- 

 form, cinnamon-brown, sparingly and minutely tipped with ash on 

 the cervical, dorsal, and anterior interfemoral regions. Forehead, 

 cheeks, and chin, yellowish- brown. Throat, neck, and l)reast, like 

 back but more strongly ti[)ped with ash. Abdomen like chin; hairy 

 lower surfaces of wings cinnamon along sides of body, fading to 

 orange-brown at the bases of metacarpal.'!. Ear membranes dark 

 brown, postbrachial membranes but slightly darker than in borealis, 

 the antebrachial decidedly darker; interfemoral membrane nearly 

 naked above on the distal third, the inferior hairy space at root of 

 tail being less extensive than in borealis. Basal half of body hairs 

 sooty, the light interspaces occupying one- fourth, the cinnamon band 

 and ashy tip the remainder. 



Measurements. — Total length, 95 mm. ; tail vertebrae, 40; hind foot, 

 10: — (average of 3 adults— length, 90; tail, 43; foot, 10: average 

 of five A. borealis — length, 100; tail, 50; foot, 8.5). Skull of type — 

 Na.<o-occipital length, 11.2; zygomatic width, 9.2; postpalatal notch 

 to foramen magnum, 5.8; length of mandible, 9.3. 



It has long been known that specimens of the Red Bat from 

 Florida were unusually dark colored but it was .«upj)Osed that this was 

 an inconstant variety of the northern form. Several specimens from 

 Tarpon Springs, in my collection, all show the same peculiarities of 

 coloration, and, in a recent paper,' I referred them doubtfully to A. 

 pfeifferi of Cuba, n(jt having specimens of the Cuban form for com- 



' "Contributions to the Mammalogy of Florida," Proc. A. N. S., 1894. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 33 



parisou. Since then Mr. Chapman^ has not only stated that the 

 Florida specimens examined by him are darker than typical lionaUs 

 I)ut that pfeifferi differs from borenlix in its " brighter" colors. This 

 statement removes the last objection to recotriiizinjr the Florida Red 

 Bat as a well-marked and hitherto undefined subspecies of AtalapJm 

 borealis. 



2. Peromyscus insignia !ip. uov. Type, a<l. J', No. l,:i<)8. Col. of S.N. Klioads, 

 Dulzura. San I)ii<;<. Co., California. Col. hy Charli-.s Marsh, Aug. 21. 1803. 



Descrlpiion. — Size very larfre, ears, feet, and whiskers of maxi- 

 mum size, tail very lontr, considerably e'xceeding length of head 

 and body. Colors above light brownish-gray, strongly shaded with 

 coarse, black hairs, grayest on head, blackest on back, brownest on 

 rump and thighs; sides, from whiskers to hams, including upper half 

 of forearm, washed with fawn, becoming ochraceous on forearm and 

 along division of up[)er and lower body colors; under surfaces, in- 

 cluding pes, manus, wrist, and lower (inner) surfaces of lindis and 

 lower half of tail, a uniform, clear, grayish- white, the hair plum- 

 beous basally; whiskers black; upper half of tail, sooty; ears nearly 

 naked, the membrane within and without of asmoke-brown hue and 

 equallv clothed on both sides with sparse, minute, gravish hairs. 



Skull — Small for the size of animal, rostrum sliort and slender; 

 nasals short, their ba-ses distinctly anterior to the posterior extension 

 of the preniaxillaries, the latter reaching behind anterior plane of 

 orbita; frontals rounded posteriorly; audital bulhe inflated; incisive 

 foramina short, wide at base, and much narrowed anteriorly. 



Mf'dsiireniciifH (of type in millimeters). — Total length, 2'.i'A; tail 

 vertebrie, I'.VI; hind foot, 26; ear (from crown i, 28. Skull — Total 

 length, 28.7; ba-^ilar length, 21; nasals, 10.4; zygomatic expansion, 

 15; interorbital constriction, 4.3; length of mandible, 14. H; width 

 of mandible, 7.5. 



During a recent cursory I'.xamination of a series of thirty or more 

 White-footed .Mice from the West Cascade region of California south 

 of San Francisco Hay, which had hnig laid in my collection as un- 

 doubted specimens of the " Parasitic Mouse" of Cooper, described 

 in 184H, l)y (iambel, from a Monterey specimen under the name Mum 

 raliforu'icus, I was surjjrised to find thos«; from San Diego County 

 uniformly of a grayer (less brown) color above and lacking the 



' Hull. .\ni<r. Mus. Nat Mi^t.. IHW-J. :H.3. 




34 I'UiX KKMINUS Ol'" Till-; ACAKKMV ()!■ [1895. 



l)rown vent ami fulvous sutfusion of throat aiitl breast cluirncterlHtic 

 of more northern spiM'iinens. A comparison of the skulls of these 

 soon showed etuistantaiid 8{)ecific peculiarities, the most striking being 

 the {Hwterior rounding of the frontal bones of San Diego County speci- 

 mens contnisted with the peculiar right-angled aspect of the fronto- 

 parietal sutures in typical Perofiiysrm califoniirus. 



The ears of the southern Sjiecies are much larger even than those 

 of ciilij'oniicus and the size of the animal in length measurements 

 considerably exceeds its rival. 



The two have been confounded in previous descriptions and the 

 southern form is probably responsible for tlie apparently exaggerated 

 statements of the dimensions of typical califominii*. 



I am at a loss to account for the conditions described by Dr. J. 

 A. Allen' regarding certain specimens of Peronnjscuti of the ralifor- 

 nicns type from Santa Ysabel and Dulzura being darker and smaller 

 than tliose from Santa C'lara County, ray own series showing exactly 

 reversed characters. 



I may also state in this connection that none of my specimens 

 from either locality have white-tipped tails. 



3. Thomomys altivallis sp. nov. Type, ad. 9 , No. 1,927, Col. of .S. .\. Khoads, 

 San Hirnanlino Mts., California (alt. 5.000 ft.). Col. by R. H. Herrou, 

 Auk. 10. 1894. 



Description. — Size medium, smaller than T. toltecus Allen, but 

 larger than T. monticolus Allen. Above dull chestnut-brown, be- 

 coming darker dorsally and along upper sides of head, the middle 

 crown and median line of back nearly l)lack, the sides washed with 

 fulvous. Nose, chops, and ears, dusky, the latter being bordered 

 anteriorly by a narrow line, and beneath and behind by a broad 

 patch of sooty black reaching nearly to occiput. Beneath plum- 

 beous-gray, washed with rusty (the plumbeous in worn specimens 

 strongly predominating). Throat, feet, and legs normally of the 

 same color as rest of under parts; tail grayish. In the tyj)e there 

 are albinistic white patches across throat, on forelegs, and at root of 

 tail. 



Skull long and narrow, the zygomae tapering toward the rostrum, 

 which is relatively long and wide. Interparietal narrow and (in the 

 type) longer than wide; nasals rather long and acutely pointed on 



' Bull. .\m(;r. .Mus. N. Hist., 1H9.3, 187. 




1895.] NATlKAl, SC'JKNChiS OF PH H.AI)KL.FH] A. 35 



the outer jwsterior corners, the latter coming far short of the nasal 

 prolongations of the preinaxillaries. Ui)per and lower incii^ors un- 

 usually wide and strong, the upper inner sulcus scarcely noticeable 

 without a glass. Molar dentition likewise unusually massive. The 

 coronoid process of mandible is more erect than usually seen in the 

 genus and terminates in a sharp point. 



Measurements (of type in millimeters). — Total length, 228; tail 

 vertebrte, 74; hind foot, 29; arc of middle fon^-claw, 11.5. Skull — 

 Total length, 39.7; basilar length, o4; ;;reatest zygomatic width, 

 2y. 2; interorbital constriction, 7; length of nasals, lo; terminal 

 width of upper pair of incisors, 4.6. 



Three specimens of this gopher, taken at varying elevations of 

 from 5,000 to 7,000 feet in the San Bernardino Mountains by .Mr. 

 Herron, form the basis of the foregoing description. 



Though somewhat affected by all)inism, as stated in the desv-ription, 

 I have cho.sen the tyj)e as being the most typical of the three speci- 

 mens, the other two being less fully developed in cranial characters 

 and are in more worn pelage. The type nmy be considered repre- 

 sentative of the ma.ximum development of the sj>ecies, the others 

 averaging considerably less in body and cranial measurements. 

 This species may be compared to three described forms. From T. 

 toltfi-iis it differs in a smaller body, longer tail, and much smaller 

 and more elongate skull, also in the darker upper and very much 

 darker lower Ixxly colors; from T. monticolus the San Bernardino 

 gopher differs radically in the small size and narrowness of the in- 

 terparietiil, in the marked prolongation and acuteness of the fronto- 

 intermaxillary suture beyond the nasals, in its wide mastoid and 

 zygomatic development, and in the dintinution of the inner ridges of 

 the faces of the upper inci.sors. In color, altivatlis diflers from 

 monticolus in a less marked degree, but in the same respects as 

 alreaflv described in its separation from to/lenin. In some res|>ect8 

 allii'd/li.^ re-senibles l)ott<r from Nicasio, California. it may be dis- 

 tinguished therefron) by its more fulvous shade alwvc, by the dark 

 (lorsal stripe, black nose, and sooty under parts, and by the greater 

 size of manus and strength of fore claws. Cranially liotl" is mure 

 mas-sive, with a slender rostrum and weaker dentition, narrower in- 

 terparittal and wide zygoni:f. In uttiva/liM there are no |»arietal 

 ridges which are so char(i<i<ii-ti<' ot' hofln ot' s:init' age. 




•^<> PR<K'KKI>1N«S OK THK ACADKMY (tK [1895. 



4. Thomomys bottsp pftllescens siibsp. iu»v. Type, ad. ^, No. 1,032, Col. of 

 S. N. Uhoads. (inipilantls, Siin Ik-rnardino Viilley, CHHfornin. Col. by K. 

 n. Ilt-rron. March -•-', I Sit J. 



DcKcri/ifioii. — Si/e larjxe, t'oet, rchitivcly, of inediuni size, wit!) 

 short. lliick i-laws. C\)lt»r ulmvc, dull, tawiiy-hrowii. liL-'litcst on 

 rump, browner on iiupc, with hliu'kish sliado on lieiid. Ears, hind- 

 ear patch and choirs, sooty; feet and lower snrtaces' of liinhs, ash; 

 breast, belly, vent and lower niaririn of ?-id(s. tawny-ash. Skull 

 massive, an<;ular; dentition relatively weak; interparietal longer 

 than wide. 



Measurement.*. — Total len^^th, '-'(HI mm. ; tail vertebra-, M{>; hiud 

 foot, 33.5; middle elaw of mamis, \).± Skull— Total length, 39; 

 greatest zygomatic breadth, 24.4; ba.'^ilar length, 35.5; length of 

 nasals. 11.9; interorbital constriction, 6.9; lenirth of mandible, 25, 



A series of nine specimens from two localities in the San Bernar- 

 dino Valley and two from iianning, California, show constant and 

 easily recognized color differences from typical specimens of botUv 

 from Nicasio. The tail of type specimen is much longer than the 

 average, which is about the same as in boiUv. The heavily ossified, 

 angular skull, in all its characters, is similar to that of botUe. What 

 Pallescens is to bottue, both geographically and anatomically, Neo- 

 toma fiisci}>es iVnqHtr is to Xeofoiva fut<c!pei<. 



5. Thomomys fulvus nigricans subsp. nov. Type, ad. J" . NO. »'.")()7, (.'ol.ofS. N. 

 Klioads, Witch Creek. San Diejio Co., California. Col. by F. Stephens, 

 Dec. 22. 1893. 



Description. — Size small ; tail rather short and well haired; pelage 

 full and long. Color above, uniform blacki,<h-brown, becoming 

 fulvous on the sides and along the upper line of belly, then grayish 

 on limbs and feet and lower belly line, then strong fulvous on median 

 line of breast and abdomen and ventral region. The lips, cheek- 

 pouches, and ears are sooty, and the hairs of under parts are basally 

 of the same color, imparting an unusually dark aspect to slightly 

 worn specimens. 



Skull — Of the slender build, wide interparietal and relatively 

 massive dentition of the fulvus type. 



Measurements. — Total length, 215 mm.; tail vertebrje, 72; hind 

 foot, 28. Skull — Total length, 37; basilar length, 33; greatest zygo- 

 matic breadth, 23; length of nasals, 13; interorbital constriction, 6; 

 length of mandil)le, 23. 



Eleven examples of this form, recently forwarded by Mr. Stephens, 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILAUELPHi A. o7 



have been compared with a series of fuhnis loaned by the American 

 Museum of Natural History through the courtesy of Dr. J. A. 

 Allen. Specimens of same age and season from southern Arizona 

 show that the San Diego County animal is uniformly blacker and les.- 

 fulvous, but the close resemblance in cranial characters of the two 

 series will not justify their separation as full species. Two specimens 

 from the San Jacinto and Cuyamaca Mountains, respectively, taken 

 at altitudes of five to six thousand feet, are identical with those from 

 Witch Creek. 



Note on Thomomys perpalmdus. 



A large series of beautifully prepared sj^ecimens of T. perpalli- 

 dus have incidentally been examined in my studies of the southern 

 California forms. The cranial characters of these specimens com- 

 pared with those of fulvus of similar age and size, show considerable 

 agreement. Of these may be specially noted the broad interparietal, 

 wide, heavy incisors and molars, and the slenderness of the bones of 

 the zygomatic arch. Correlated with their cranial likeness it mav 

 be noted that darker summer specimens of perpallidus form a close 

 intergrade of color with lighter examples oi'fulvu.% connecting, in an 

 unexpected manner, the extreme light phase of the former with the 

 darker phase of the latter species. Not having specimens from any 

 locality between Agua Caliente, California, and the San Francisco 

 Mt.^., Arizona, I am unable to do more tlian conjecture whether an 

 \ininterrupted series would not justify naming the Mojave Desert 

 Gopher Thomomys fulvvs perpallidus. So far as the evidence goes, 

 however, the relationship of the two animals is quite dose. 



Through the kindness of Dr. J. A. Allen, I was able to .secure a 

 loan from the American Museum of Natural History of typical speci- 

 mens of several 3|)ecie9 of Tliomomi/s from up])er and I.KJwer Cali- 

 fornia and Arizona, without which the conclusions unived ni in this 

 pa[)er would have been of litth- value. 




3<^ JMUH-KKI>INUS OK THK At'ADKMY ol [1895. 



Fkhkuaky 5. 



Mk. Charles P. Pkkot in tluClmir. 



Twenty- tour jx^rsous present. 



The death of (ieorge A. Hex, M.D., u meiul)er, ou the 4th inst., 

 was announced. 



On a New Method of Sludying Cell Motion. — CiiAKLiis Lester 

 Lkonard, M.D. communicated notes of a lecture delivered January 

 15, 1895:- 



Since tlu- enunciation by Virchow, in 1858, of his theory of cellu- 

 lar pathology the attention of the scientific world has been centered 

 about the study of this unit. Nearly all the unsolved problems of 

 medical science involve, in one way or another, the consideration of 

 some one of the functions of the cell. 



It is my purpose in this paper to call attention to a new method 

 of studying one of these functions. I have chosen as illustrations, 

 some of the well-known facts of physioloiry already seen and de- 

 scribed by competent observers, and have confinetl the greater part 

 of my study to cell motion as exemplified in the movements of the 

 red and white blood corpuscles. 



The po.s<ibility of these studies was suggested by the successful 

 result of an experiment in instantaneous photomicrography. 



The method to be illustrated consists in the making of a consecu- 

 tive series of instantaneous photomicrographs of the same microscopic 

 field taken at definite intervals, and the comparative study of the 

 series. The results obtained by this method are the elimination to 

 a greater extent of the personal equation of the observer, the pro- 

 curing of incontestable proof of phenomena observed, the extension 

 of the observations over any length of time, and the possibility of 

 studying the changes occurring over the entire field at any one 

 moment. The method also enables the student to study the condition 

 of a fresh, living, unstained specimen for any length of time, in 

 6elds taken at definite intervals. 



The original magnifications were one and two-thousand diameters 

 measured by the projection of a stage micrometer upon the screen; 

 the lantern multiplies these diameters by forty, giving on the screen 

 40,000 and 80,000 diameters. The time of ex[)Osure was instan- 

 taneous, at least relatively with regard to the motion of the bodies, 

 varying in different pictures from two, to one-fourth of a second. 



The results obtained as regards the photomicrography of unstained 




1895.] NATI.JlAi. SCIKNCKS «)K FHlI^ADEL,HilI A. 39 



specimens is illustrated by six photomicrographs of human hluod in 

 the dift'erent forms which it as>unies upon the warm stages. 



The method of study is illustrated by the following series: — 



Series A. — The amoeboid motion of the white blood corpuscle. 

 The change of shape and motion with relation to the surrounding 

 stationary and identical fields is well marked. 



Series B. — This series shows the power of the white blood cor- 

 puscle in forcing its way through a ma.<s of red creuated and ad- 

 herent l)!ood corpuscles. 



Series C. — Is of marked interest; a white corpuscle has seized 

 upon a red corpuscle and a series of photomicrographs shows that it 

 has dragged it through a considerable distance in a field which is 

 proved to be stationary and identical in all the photomicrographs. 



Series D. — This series shows motion in a red blood corpuscle, 

 situated in a field in which the series proves no other motion took 

 place during one half hour. This motion must, therefore, have been 

 produced bv some inherent power in the red blood corpuscle, and as 

 the photoinicrograplis show that no twist has occurred, the motion 

 cannoi be due to a previous torsion, and may therefore be considered 

 a truly am<eboid motion of the red blood corpuscle. 



Series E. and F. — Show the diapedesis of the red blood corpuscle 

 from a capillary in which the blood is in motion and from one iu 

 which there is sta.^is of the blood. This phenomenon, therefore, 

 occurs under two opposite or nearly opposite conditions as regards 

 intra-va.<cular blood pressure, indicating, perhaps, tliat diapedesis 

 is not a filtration due to pressure, but is due to the aiii(el)oid 

 motion and power of the red blood corpuscles. 



Series G. — This series shows an empty capillary. Along the in- 

 ner surface of its wall may be seen white corpuscles, in which tlir 

 series indicates movement. The diapedesis of two rc<l blootl cor- 

 puscles from this empty capillary ten<ls to strengthen the heliel' in 

 the amff'boid motion of the red blood corpuscle. 



Further photomicrograf)hs illustrate the position of the corpuscles 

 within the capillaries, and show the jiresence of nuclei in the red 

 corpuscles of the frog while in the living tissues. Different forms of 

 the malarial plastnodia. and the apj)licatioii of the method to path- 

 ological studies are illustrated by other photomicrographs. 



The [)ictures are not shown as the perfect results of this method, 

 or as the outcome of research by it. They are simply to illus- 

 trate the author's metho<l of studying cell motion. Inferences base<I 

 on the pictures are forei<:n to the purpose of the communication, 

 which is intended merely to demonstrate a metho<l of study worthy of 

 .scientific coiiHidorntion. It.** usefulness in producing accurate illus- 

 trations, both for publication and for lantern slides, cannot be over- 

 estimated, as it supplies piftures whose counterpart can be found 

 under the micn)scope. 




40 i'KO(.j:i;i>i Mi> <>i' thk acadkmv ok [18t>o. 



Fkhkuary r_*. 



The IVsitlent. CiKNKKAL Isaac .). Wihtak, in the Clmir. 



Thirty |)ersons present. 



The Bii)l()<:ic!il antl Microscopical Section presented the following 

 minute: — 



(iEORGE A. REX, M. I). 



The Biological and Microscopical Section of the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, in view of the sudden death of 

 Dr. George A. Rex on the 4th inst,, deem it appropriate that a 

 minute be made upon its records in appreciation of the loss it has 

 sustained. 



Dr. Rex became a member of the Academy in January, 1881, and 

 in December, 1881, he was elected a member of the Section. He 

 served as its Conservator from November 3, 1890, until his death. 



Dr. Rex was the highest authority on the Myxomycetes in the 

 United States. It was his enthusiastic study of this group that first 

 brought him to the Section, and his communications on this subject 

 formed an interesting part of nearly every meeting. He was the 

 author of numerous species, which, owing to his extreme conserva- 

 tism, will doubtless continue to bear his name. j\Iany forms, new 

 to him, remained in his collection unnamed for years, and were only 

 published when he had thoroughly convinced himself that they were 

 really new to science. 



Although he was interested principally in the Myxomycetes, he 

 was an earnest student of the lower orders of fungi and an ardent 

 admirer of everything beautiful in microscopic nature. 



Dr. Rex was always a faithful and tireless worker for the interests 

 of the Academy, and those who came in contact with him as fellow- 

 student and colleague could not fail to appreciate his genial dis- 

 position and his faithfulness in friendship. 



A's a professional man his work brought him into all grades of 

 life, and it is especially among the poor and needy that may be found 

 to-day a sincere and heartfelt grief which constitutes his only reward 

 for many hours of toil. 



Hon. John Cadwalader was elected a member of Council to fill 

 the vacancy caused by the death of George A. Rex, M.D. 




1895.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 41 



February 19. 



The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the Chair. 



Twenty- four persons present. 



A paper entitled "New Subspecies of the Gray Fox and Say's 

 Chipmunk," by Samuel N. Rhoads, was presented for publication. 



February 26. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the Chair. 



Twenty -eight persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication: — 



"The Eocene Tertiary of Texas east of the Brazos River," by 

 Wm. Kennedy. 



"Description of New Species of Achatinella from the Hawaiian 

 Islands," by D. D. Baldwin. 



"Notes on the Dentition and Jaws of Achatinellid:c, " by 

 Henry Sutor and H. M. Gwatkin. 



Mr. Silas L. Schumo was elected a member. 



P. B. Sarasiii of Basel, Switzerland, was elected a correspondent. 



The following were orderecl to be printed: — 




42 PROCKKniN(JS OK TICK AfADKM Y uK [1895. 



NEW SUBSPECIES OF THE GRAY FOX AND SAY'S CHIPMUNK. 



HY .SAMUKL N. KHOADS. 



Urooyon oinereo-argenteus floridanus subsp. nov. Tyi)o, yn. ad. ^, No. 1,837, 

 Col. of S. N. Rhoiids. Tariion Springs, Florida. Col. by \V. S. Dickinson, 

 Dec. 189.J. 



Deseriptiou. — Smaller thau ci nereo-argenteus oi the Middle States, 

 with relatively shorter hind foot, tail, and ears, aiitl liarsher pelage. 

 Skull characters not appreciably different from the typical form. 

 Crown from l)etween eyes (inchidiiig !?pace between ears and eyes to 

 black malar stripe), upper neck, back, rump, sides, upper surfaces 

 of legs and feet mixed silver-gray, much as in the northern animal. 

 Chin, margin of lips, whisker patch, upper line and tip of tail and 

 an indistinct double stripe reaching from the nose through and under 

 eyes and joining on cheeks, black. Hind ears, sides of neck to fore- 

 legs, broad band across throat and under surface of foreleg rusty 

 brown. Throat and cheek-stripe, from anterior canthus of eye, white. 

 Anterior upper lip adjoining muzzle, brownish-white. Breast, belly, 

 vent, inner surfaces of hams and inner base of fore-legs pale rusty 

 fulvous, a few grayish-white hairs near vent. Soles of feet cinnamon, 

 with dusky borders. 



Measurements (of type, taken from dry skin). — Total length, 900 

 mm. ; hind foot, 125 ; tail vertebrae, 260; ear, from crown, 60 : (Of old, 

 adult topotype; length, 910; foot, 125; tail, 310; ear, 63). Skull- 

 Total length, 114; basilar length, 103; zygomatic expansion, 65; 

 interorbital expansion, 35 ; length of nasals, 41 ; length of mandible, 

 86 ; width of mandible, 33. 



Two specimens, male and female, from the vicinity of Tarpon 

 Springs, one in winter and the other in summer j)elage, show such 

 well-marked differences from the Gray Fox of Virginia and the 

 Middle States, I feel no hesitation in considering them sufficient 

 indication that the fox of southern Florida should be separated from 

 the northern animal. 



Be.sides the difference in dimensions already stateil in the descrip- 

 tion, the Florida fox may be recognized by the paleness of the fulvous 

 color of breast and belly and by the almost entire ab.sence of white 

 on these parts so conspicuous in specimens from Virginia and New 




1895.] NATIKAL SCIKNCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43 



Jersey. It lacks eutirely the wliite stripe on the inside of hind legs, 

 and the rusty throat patch is much longer (3 or 4 inches) than in 

 cinereo-anjentem, in which it often forms a narrow collar scarcely 

 dividing the white of lower head and throat from that of breast. 



As I have already pointed out,' priority in naming the Gray Fox 

 belongs to Miiller, who described it in 177(i. Probably in the same 

 year a plate of this animal had been published by Schreber (Saug- 

 thiere, Tab. XCII j, on which he used the name " Canis cinereo-urgeiiteiis 

 Briss." The text belonging to the volume (Band III) in which this 

 plate was bound bears the date 1778. In the text Schreber nowhere 

 imposes the Latin name because of his expressed doubt whether 

 " Der Grisfuchs" might not be the same as " Der Virginische Fuchs," 

 which he named Cani-i virginianm. It is, therefore, apparent that 

 ciuereo-aryenteuis was not adopted by Schreber but was merely quoted 

 on the plate to denote the animal which he considered the same as 

 the Canis rinereo-nrijentens of Brisson. Schreber's plate of Der 

 Virginische Fuchs is copied from the preposterous one of Catesby, 

 while that of Der Grisfuchs is not a bad representation of the Gray 

 Fox, and his description of the animal (pp. 360, 3G1) is the first 

 accurate one published, in fact it would be hard to find a more reli- 

 able diagnosis of the external characters of the northern form than 

 this of Schreber's, taken from a furrier's pelt, sent from America to 

 Germany. 



Returning to Miiller's description we find the additional statement 

 that his Otnix oinereo-ttrcjeuieus is ba.-^ed on frisson's animal as well 

 as on Schreber's plate above mentioned, but he gives no habitat. 

 Briss(m (Regne Animal, 1756, p. 241) gives it: "Habitat in Caro- 

 lina, tV' Virginia in cavis arl)oribus." The Gray Foxes which I have 

 examined from North Carolina and Virginia are essentially like those 

 of the Middle States, and it is therefore proper to apply Midler's 

 nanie to the northf-rn as contrasted with the extreme southern form. 

 It is probable that there is little intergradation i)etween the two, north 

 of southern Georgia ami that typical Jioridaints is confined to penin- 

 Hidar Florida, as is the case with other inauimals in these regions 

 having the same di8trii)Ution. 



Tamiat lateralis saturatas Hulisp. imv. Typi-. ail. ^, Col. of .S. N. liln.julii, 

 .So. l.Srt.'i. Ijiko Ki<li<'li(.s. Kittitiis Co., \Vji.-ilin. ( cU-vatiuii h.imm) (i. ). Col. 

 I)y .Mian l{ii|)<Tt. S-p., is'.ia. 



Deatripliou. — Size large, tail very long, foot and ear in the same 



' Kopriiit of Onl's ZooL.ny. IMtj. .\ppx., p. H. 




44 PROCEEDINGS OF TIIK ACAOKMY oK [1895. 



proportion, colors darkest of the T. lateralis group. Top nnd fides 

 of head and sides of neck to and irtcluding forelegs, chestnut, shaded 

 with hlack ; eyelids pale buff, in marked contrast t<t their surround- 

 ings; lips, throat, breast, sides of belly and hams, rusty; feet paler 

 rusty; back, fcoin occiput to and including root of tail and defined 

 laterally by red of neck and black of inner body stripe and |W)ste- 

 riorly by white of middle stripe, including Hanks and upper hind 

 legs, grizzled, rusty black. White body stripe longest, reaching from 

 base of neck nearly to tail ; inner black stri})e shortest, about half 

 the width and length of outer stripe, which latter is the same width 

 as white stripe, and about two- thirds as long. Belly and chest uni- 

 form grizzled black, the bjxses of hairs sooty, their tips fulvous. Tail, 

 above, like back on proximal third, becoming more distinctly mar- 

 gined with a subtermiual black band which becomes broader and 

 blacker at tip, the outer tips of hairs rusty ; beneath, the tail is 

 lighter, with a broad central area of reddish-yellow within the black 

 border. Skull, not appreciably different from that of lateralis, ex- 

 cept in its larger size. 



Measurements (oi' type, in n)iHimeters). — Total length, 317; tail 

 vertebrre, 114 ; hind foot, 46: (Average of five adults, length, 305; 

 tail, 112; foot, 46). Skull — Total length, 46; basilar length, 38; 

 zygomatic expansion, 28.8; interorbital constriction, 12; length of 

 nasals, 15.7; length of mandible, 28; width of mandible, 16.2. 



Seventeen chipmunks, taken by Mr. Rupert in the months of July 

 and September, in the vicinity of Snoqualraie Pass, Cascade Mts., 

 Washington, show closest affinities, in many respects, with 2\ lateralis 

 cinerascens^ in the "red phase" described by Dr. Merriam. They 

 differ from cinerascens in the fact that there is no "gray phase," the 

 adults of both sexes being similarly colored. They are also blacker 

 and browner throughout and have a relatively smaller body, larger 

 foot, and longer tail than virierasrens, and the median lateral stripe 

 does not reach the ears as in that form and in lateralis. 



The very close agreement of the skulls of lateralis and saturatus 

 indicates that the latter is nothing more than the usual "Cascade 

 representative" of a Rocky Mountain type, and it is probable that 

 the relationship of cinerascens to lateralis is quite as close. 



' Merriam, N. Amer. Fanna. No. 4. IROn. 20. 




1895,] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 46 



• NEW AND OTHERWISE INTERESTING TERTIARY MOLLUSCA 

 FROM TEXAS. 



BY GILBERT D. HARRIS. 



While employed as Tertiary paleontologist to the Geological Survey 

 of Texas during the years 1892 and 1893, the writer prepared a large 

 monograph on the Tertiary mollusca of the State with the intention 

 of publishing it in the 5th Anmial Report of that Survey. For 

 want of funds the printing of this report has been indefinitely post- 

 pones!, and accordingly the following facts and descriptions of new 

 species, taken from the monograph in question, have here found an 

 appropriate place for publication. 



The points in stratigraphy brought out by the study of the various 

 Tertiary faunas of the State have been included with other matter 

 in an article published by the State Geologist in the Journal of 

 Geology, 1894, p. 549. 



Suffice it to say here that the Midway stage, so well developed in 

 Georgia and Alabama and known also in Mississippi and Arkansas, 

 exists also in Texas, as is proved by the occurrence of such species as 

 Enclimaloceras itlrichi, Ostrea pulaskensis, Cucullcea macrodonta, 

 Volutilithes liinopsis and others. 



The Lignitic stage, so far as has been observed, is destitute of 

 molluscan remains. The ex|)Osure on Brazos River, known as 

 "Sniiley's BluH"," two miles al)ove the mouth of Pond Creek, is 

 evidently about synchronous with the Matthews Lauding beds of 

 Alabama. These are now included in the Midway stage. 



The Ixjwer Claiborne beds are replete with fossils, many of which 

 are common to this horizon in I>ouisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, and 

 South Carolina. Besides these well-known forms there are many 

 new ones, some of which are described below. 



The true Claiborne, the Juckson, and the Vicksburg stages seem 

 to have no representatives in Texas. This fact cannot be too 

 strongly emphasized since most writers on Texas geology have re- 

 ferred certain fo8.sil bearing outcrops to some of these up|)er libceue 

 stages. 




46 PKOCKKDINGS OK TIIK ACAhKMY oK [1895. 



PELECYPODA. 

 Oenus MODIOLA. 

 Modiola houstonia sp. iiov. PI. 1. fiK- 1- 



Sptrific charactrrizntion. — General form of" shell as fif^ured; thin, 

 showing concentric lines of growth on the area helow the unUjonal 

 ridge ; ahove the same, with hroad concentric nndulations, becoming 

 more numerous towards the umhones; anterior, radially striate. 



Localities. — Three miles northea.st of Crockett, Houston Co., Tex.; 

 also five miles northwest of Orangeburg, S. C. 



Geoloffical horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Ttjpe. — In Texas State Museum. , 



Modiola texana Gabh. PI. 1. fig. 2. 



Perua texana Gabb, Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila., 18G1, p. 371. 



The collections of the Survey have yielded few and imperfect 

 specimens of this species. 



Localities. — Caddo Peak, Texas, Gabb. Two miles southwest of 

 Campbellton, Atascosa Co.; two miles east of Arnold's ranch, P"'rio 

 Co., Tex. Near Red Land, La. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Specimen figured: From near Red Land, La., property of U. S. 

 Nat. Museum. 



Type. — In the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Genus LEDA. 

 Leda bastropensis iiov. sj). PI. 1, (ig. 3. 



Specific ch'iraclerizafion. — General form as figured; medial por- 

 tions of the valves with regular, strong, concentric stri:o; strije ob- 

 solete on the anterior end and on the post-umbonal slojje, the latter 

 with a ^hallow furrow extending from the umbo to near the ex- 

 tremity of the valve; within the valve, a raised line or ridge, emanat- 

 ing from the umbonal region and extending along beneath the 

 hinge finally terminates in the middle of the posterior end and is 

 there slightly enlarged. 



This species differs from L. plicata Lea in its lack of striation 

 over portions of the exterior, and the more central positions of the 

 umbones. From L. mater Mr., 6a8<ro/)en.9?'s is distinguished l)y its 

 want of anterior radiating sulci, its lack of post-umbonal striation, 

 and by its form. This is readily distinguished from L. alhirnpina 




1895. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 47 



Hur. since it lacks the smooth Yoldia-like aspect about the umbones 

 so characteristic of that species. 



Localities. — Rio Grande at Starr-Zapata Co. line; Brazos River, 

 one mile below Milam-Burleson Co. line, Tex. 



Geological liorizou. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — In Texas State Museum. 

 Leda milamensis nov. sp. PI. 1. fig. 4. 



Spc'-iji'- characterization. — General form as figured; surface covered 

 with fine concentric striiie except near the anterior margin where it 

 is smootli and polished; diameter from beak to base great and the 

 shell here much inflated; posterior remarkal)ly narrow and flattened. 



Locality. — Smiley's Bluff; Bra/os River, two miles above the 

 mouth of Pond Creek. 



Geological horizon. — Midway Eocene. 



Type specimen. — In Texas State Museum. 

 Leda hoastonia nov. sp. PI. 1. fig. 5. 



Spei-ific characterization. — General form as figured; concentric 

 lines .scarcely discernible except where they pass over the umbonal 

 ridge; post-umbonal area traversed by one raised line extending from 

 the umbo to near the extremity of the valve; sometimes as many as 

 ei'jht or ten raised radiating lines appear near the posterior sub- 

 nx'Avgm. 



Localities. — Between Orrell's and Evergreen Crossing, Elm Cr. , 

 Lee Co.; Alabama Bluff, Trinity River, Houston Co.; along Elm 

 Cr. from Orrell's to Price's Crossing, Texas. 



Specimens of this species occur in the collection of the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Phila., labelled '^Leda (Nuculana) snbtrigonu 

 Con.?, S. Carolina." 



Geological horizon. — I^ower Claiborne Ex)cene. 



Type. — In Texas State Museum. 



Subgenus ADRANA. 

 Adrana aldrichiana iiuv. sp. PI. 1. tig. t>. 



Spccijir characterization. — Size and general form a? indicated by 

 the figure; exterior smooth and polished; within smooth; sinus 

 small; posterior row of te<tli much the longer. 



The type specimen is r-oinprcs-sed vertically, the umbo shoidd l)e 

 somewhat more elevated than is represented by the figure. The type 

 and all the specimens seen l)V the writer were in the collection of T. 

 H. .\Idricli, ti'iiiporarilv loaned to the survev. 




•i^ PKOCEEDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Geologicid horizon. — Ijower Claiborne Eocene. 



Localitij. — Brazos River, Tex., one and one-halt' miles below 

 Mosley's Ferry. 



Genus VENERICARDIA. 

 Venerioardia trapaquara nov. sp. IM. 1, fiK- 7. 



Specific chnrocterizttiion. — General form as figured; ribs about 

 twenty- tour, compound, /. e. , broad at base, surmounted by a medial 

 dentate carina; umbonal ridge prominent. 



This species is remarkable for its quadrangular form and the 

 prominence of its umbonal ridge. It belongs to the alllcodaia stock 

 and is most nearly allied to Cardita snbquadrata Con. (Jr. Ac. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., 2d Ser., 1848, p. 128, pi. 14, fig. 10), but from Conrad's 

 description and figure it is evident that his species is much more 

 compressed, the umbonal ridge less prominent, and the beaks more 

 nearly central. 



Locality. — Cedar Creek, southeast corner of Wheelock League, 

 200 yds. north of Brazos Co. line, Robertson Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus ASTARTE. 

 Astarte smithvillensis nov. sp. PI. 1, figs. 8, a; 9, a,b, c. 

 A. conradi Buckley, 1st Ann. Rep. Geol. Agr. Surv. Tex., 1874, p. 63. 



Crassatella alia (young) Heilp., (^nt. to Geol., 1884, p. 38. 

 Aslarle tellinoides Heilp., Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1890, p. 402. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as indicated by 

 the figures ; surface in typical specimens marked by strong concen- 

 tric rugae especially towards the base; these slope gently above but 

 abruptly below and are superimposed by fine stria?; umbones flat- 

 tened. 



This species shows great variations in form and size as well as 

 markings. At Collier's Ferry some specimens are more elongated, 

 others more rotund ; some have crenulations on the interior submar- 

 gin while others are smooth. Several of these forms are shown by 

 the figures cited. 



Localities of the tyjtical jorm. — Devil's Eye, Colorado River, 

 Bastrop Co.; Smithville, Bastrop Co., Tex. 



LocAilHy of the .wialler foivm. — 15 miles southeast of Nacog- 

 doches, Nacogdoches Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Ijower Claiborne Eocene. 



Types. — Texas State Museum. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 49 



Genus CRASSATELLA. 

 Crassatella texalta nov. sp. PI. 2, fig. 2. 



Specific characterization. — General form as figured; exterior smooth 

 about the umbones, but marked by lines of growth anteriorly and 

 8ub-basally; hinge and marginal crenulations as in C alta Con. 



This species is closely allied to C. alta, but is distinguished by its 

 proportionally longer form and its smooth umbones, the latter feature 

 being in marked contrast with the corrugations of C alta. It 

 evidently does not attain the large dimensions of Conrad's species. 



Localities. — Alabama Bluff", Trinity River, Houston Co. ; Hurri- 

 cane Bayou, Houston Co. , Tex. ; 2^ miles east of Newton, and 4 

 miles west of Enterprise, Miss. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type specimen. — Texas State Museam. 



Crassatella trapaquara nov. sp. PI. 2, fig. 3, a 



Specific rkararterizatimi. — General form as figured ; surface con- 

 centrically striate anteriorly, smooth posteriorly, except a few shal- 

 low concentric depressions marking periods of growth ;• hinge teeth 

 not so strong as in texalta; lunular margin concave; basal margin 

 of the valves but slightly convex, crenulated within anteriorly and 

 basally but not posteriorly. 



Loat/it ies. — '^nnth\''\\\e, Bastrop Co.; 8 miles east of Alto, Chero- 

 kee Co.; Elm Creek, between Orrell's and Evergreen Cros.sing, 

 Lee Co.; MurchLson's Headright, northern boundary, Houston Co.; 

 R. Williams' Headright, northeast of Weches, Houston Co., Tex. 

 Also Moore's Iron Mine, La. , and near Enterprise, Miss. 



Geological horizon. — L(jwer Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Harris' collection. 



Crassatella antestriata (t:i)iIi. I'l. 1. I'la. lo. .a. 



C. antestriala Gubb, .Ion in. .\f. Niit. Sci. Pliihi.. vol. iv, 1S»1(>, j). 3S«. pi. rt7, 

 f. 5.3. 



Gabt)'s figure and description were of a young specimen ; the 

 figure herewith given is of an adult. Compared with inipaijuara, 

 antestriala is much more oblique, or inequilateral, the posterior ex- 

 tremity is 8ul>-biaiigular and ereiiate within, and the basal nuirgin is 

 more convex. Externally antcMriata is more strongly marked. 



Localitieii. — I^ee Co. ; Elm Creek, l)etween Evergreen and Orrell's 

 Crossing, I^ee Co.; Alabama lUiill', Trinity River, Houston Co.; 




•>0 I'ltoCKKDINOS (»F Tin: ACADKM Y OK [1895. 



o miles w^st of Crockett. Houston Co. ; Ilurrieaiie liayoii, Mnrster's 

 and Ho<l<;e'8 Survey, Ilou.'^tou Co.; liaptiziug Creek, Cherokee Co. 



Oeolofficitl horizon. — I^ower Claihorne Eocene. 



Til/": — Siii^ley's collection, from Lee Co. 

 Crassatella texana lloilp. IM. 2, ti^. 1. 



C. /c-.tj/ij Heili).. I'roc. Av. Nat. Sci. I'liilii.. is'.M). ]>. jdti, pi. xi. I", ti. 



This is certainly very distinct from (tiitf'.'<tri(il<i. l»esides the j)oint8 

 of difference mentioned by IIeil|>rin the f()llo\viM<r may he noted : The 

 umhonal ridge is much 8har|)er in fr.niim, and there is u trace of a 

 sinus just below it ; the posterior margin is not sub-biangular as in 

 unfe-^ti lata, and the valves are less obliijue. 



PVom trapnquara this species can be distinguished by its surface 

 markings, lower form, and the depre.^sion just below its umbonal 

 ridge. 



Localities. — Near McBee's School-house, 2 miles east of Alto ; 

 Berryman's Land, Kimble Headright, Cherokee Co.; Murchi.son's 

 Headright ; Livcly's Place, Wilson Headright, Houston Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Apparently lo.«t. 



Genus SFHiEEELL^. 

 Sphfflrellad) anteproducta nov. sp. PI. 2, fij;. 4. 



Specific chnracterization. — Size and general form as indicated by 

 the figure ; anterior somewhat produced, laterally compre.«sed ; pos- 

 terior d(n*sal margin likewise somewhat compressed ; ventricose. 



This species is much more ventricose than infitita Lea, from 

 Claiborne, and scarcely as much so as tnrgida Con., from the Vicks- 

 burg beds. The umbones are intermediate in size between injiata 

 and fiirgidula, the size greater than either. 



Localities. — Cedar Creek, Wheelock League, Robertson Co. ; 

 cutting on Tyler and South Eastern R. R., 400 yards south of mile 

 post No. 23, Cherokee Co. ; Dr. CoUard's Farm, Sparks Headright, 

 Brazos Co.; Elm Creek, Lee Co., Tex. Also from mouth of Saline 

 Bayou, Red River, Louisiana. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



T'lpe. — Singley's collection. 



Genua MERETKIX. 

 Meretrix texacola nov. sp. PI. 2, fig. .">, ii, b. 



Specific cliaracterizaiion. — Size and general forms as indicated by 

 the figures; surface generally smooth al)out the und)ones, but often 




1895.] NATIKAI> SCIENCES OF PH II.ADKLPHIA. 51 



more or less corrugated concentrically towards the base, especially 

 posteriorly; lunule in the larger specimens, very indistinct in the 

 smaller forms bordered by a well incised line. 



The surface markings resemble somewhat those of C. 7)uttalHopsis 

 Heilp., but the anterior and posterior are too pointed, the shell in 

 general too inflated, and the umbonal angle too great for that species. 

 The larger specimens resemble M. call font icd Con. 



Localities. — Rio Grande at Webb-Zapata County line ; Smithville, 

 Bastrop Co., 2 miles east of Alto, Cherokee Co.; Mosley's Ferry, 

 Brazos Co. ; Cedar Creek, Robinson Co. ; Alum Bluff, Trinity River ; 

 Hurricane Bayou, Houston Co.; Collier's Ferry, Brazos River, Bur- 

 leson Co.; cutting on Houston East <fe West Texas R. R., 4 miles 

 north of Corrigan. P(jlk Co., Texas. Also from the base of the 

 bluff at Claiborne, Ala. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Tyjic*. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus TELLINA. 

 Tellina tallicheti nov. sp. PI. 3. tig. 1. 



Specific chnracterization. — Size and general form as indicated by 

 the figure ; not twisted posteriorly ; thin ; posterior sub-biangulate ; 

 anterior rounded ; beak slightly behind the center ; lateral teeth 

 well developed ; posterior cardinal bifid ; pallia! sinus and mu.scular 

 scars of good diraen.«ions though rather dimly marked; exterior 

 smooth, except a few concentric strije on the post-umbonal slope; 

 umbonal ridge passes from the beak to the posterio- basal margin. 



Loraltty. — Smithville, Bastrop Co., Tex. 



GeologicaUiorizon. — Ix)wer Claiborne Eocene. 



Ti/pe. — Plarris' collection. 



Genus SILIQUA. 

 Siliqua simondsi nov. sjt. I'l :?. (Ik. •-'. 



Sprrific rhararferizntioii. — Sizo and general form as indicated by 

 the figure ; anterior acutely rounded sub-ba.-ally, posterior rounded; 

 from the uml)o radiate two depres-sions (in the ca.«>t), the anterior deep, 

 the posterior more nearly vcrti^-nl and faint : pallial line and sinus 

 comparatively well marked. 



Locality. — Dr. Williams' (|uarry, Stephenson's Headright, Brazos 

 Co., Tex. 



Gcfilofjicul horizon. — Lowi-r < laibornt- Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Mu.seiim. 




62 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OK [1895. 



Genus CERONIA. 

 Ceronia singfleyi uov. sp. I'l. 3. tig. 3, a. 



Specific characterization. — General tbrm as figured ; beaks promi- 

 nent, turned anteriorly ; anterior side often very elongate; posterior 

 generally short, obtusely pointed, with an obtuse angle midway of 

 the posterior dorsal margin; umboiuil ridge rounded; post-umbonal 

 slope of considerable width and nearly at right angles to the face of 

 the valve ; substance of the valve moderately thick. 



The young of this species have a decidedly Schizodesma appear- 

 ance. Older specimens assume the general form of Hemimaetra 

 elongata of the ludo-Pacific region. 



This species is known only in the form of casts in a light gray 

 sandstone. It is regarded as a ^lactroid shell, and not a Macoma, 

 because (a) the beaks point anteriorly; (b) there is no indication of 

 a twisting posteriorly; (c) the hinge margin of this shell is thick and 

 evidently bore well-developed lateral teeth ; (d) the posterior is very 

 obtuse. 



Locality. — Sunnyside Church, Lee Co., Texas. 



Geological Jiorizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus PERIPLOMA. 

 Periploma coUardi nov. sp. PI. 3, lig. 4. 



Specific characterization. — General form as figured ; nearly equi- 

 valve; beaks turned slightly backward ; posterior deflected to the 

 right ; substance of the shell thin and very nacreous; umbones fissured. 



The general form of this species is somewhat like that of Ceronia 

 gingleyi, from which, however, it is distinguished by the difference 

 in direction of the beaks, as well as by the beaks themselves. Again 

 this species has a much more extended posterior dorsal margin. 



Localities. — Dr. Col lard's farm, Sparks' Headright, Brazos Co., 

 Tex. Also mouth of Saline Bayou, Winn Parish, La., and base of 

 bluff at Claiborne, Ala. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus COBBULA. 

 Corbula aldrichi .Meyer, var. smithvillensis nov. var. PI. 3, fig. 5, a. 



The variety is larger than the typical form., beak in the left valve 

 more nearly central ; right valve proportionally higher; radiating 

 lines generally obsolete. 




1895.] NATIRAL SCIENCES OF PHII.ADEIvPHI A. 53 



Localities. — Sraithville, Bastrop Co. ; Burleson Shell Blufi' ou 

 Brazos River; 2 miles east of Alto, Cherokee Co. ; Mosley's Ferrv, 

 Brazos River ; Cedar Creek, Wheelock League, Robertson Co. ; Elm 

 Creek, Robert.>Jon Co. ; Berrymau's Land, Cherokee Co. ; Alum Bluff, 

 Trinity River, Houston Co. ; 2 miles south of Mt. Selmon P. O., 

 Cherokee Co.; 1 mile south from Nevilles, Gonzales Co. ; 15 miles 

 southeast of Nacogdoches, Nacogdoches Co., Tex. Also near Enter- 

 prise, Miss. 



Geological horizon of the variety. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus MARTESIA. 

 Martesia texana nov. sp. PI. 3. fig 6. 



Specific oharacterizoiion. — General form as figured ; surface marked 

 by concentric lines or corrugations crossed by a radiating fold ; ante- 

 rior to this the lines are strong, but behind it they are very faint. 



This species differs from M. elongata Aid., by its much greater 

 anterior development, and hence the much more central position of 

 the radiating fold. 



Locality. — Two miles east of Alto, Cherokee Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type specimen. — Texas State Museum. 



GASTROPODA. 

 Genus EINGICULA. 

 Bingicnla trapaquara nov. sp. PI. 3, fig. 7. 



Specific characterization. — Whorls 5; whorls 1, 2, and 3 nearly or 

 quite smouth; 4 with a well marked sub.sutural line and fainter ones 

 over the whole surface; body whorl strongly striate spirally, labrum 

 very much thickened and crenulate within, labial callosity very pro- 

 nounced, the two lal)ial plicie strong and ascending rapidly upon the 

 body whorl. 



This species differs from K. hiplicata Lea by its more numerous 

 spiral stri;t', its greater oral callosities, and the obliquity and strength 

 of the coluriiellar plic;e. R. vii.'iiii.'<sip])leti.'<is Con. bus plications some- 

 what similar to those of this species, but in otiici- respects it in nearly 

 like li. hiplicata. 



Loralilie.-'. — San Antonio Firrry, Brazos River, Burleson Co.; 

 between Orreil's and Evergreen Cro.«sing, Elm Creek. Lee Cak, Tex. 



Geological horizon. — I>)Wer Claiborne I'^)cene. 



Typr. — Texa." State Museum. 




54 I'KOCKKDINdS OK THK AOAItKMV ol' [1895. 



Genus VOLVULA. 

 ▼olvulaT smithvillensis ii.>v. sp. 1*1. :{. li;;. s. 



Specific chararterizatio)!. — Shell large anteriorly and centrally but 

 attennuted posteriorly; thick; spirally si rintc near citlier terminus; 

 columella with one strong fold. 



This shell has somewhat the form of AcUronella. It diHIers from 

 V. iniiiKtlKsimti by its greater thickness, its gioatest diameter being 

 located more to the anterior, and by its thick, strong columellar fold. 



Locality. — Smithville, Bastrop Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Ti/pe. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus CYLICHNELLA. 

 Cylichnella atysopsis iiov. sp. PI. 3, lig. 9, a. 



"I'olz'iild iitinnlissima" Ga))b, specimen in coll. Ac. Nat. Sci. I'liila. 



Specific churacterizatio)!. — General form globose as figured; sub- 

 stance of the shell rather thick; spirally striate; columella with one 

 fold ; umbilicated. 



Locality. — Little Brazos River, near iron bridge, on Mosley's 

 Ferry road. 



Geological horizo)!. — J./Ower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. Fig. 9a is the so-labelled T'. mivic- 

 ti.mma of the Academy collection. 



Genus TEEEBRA. 

 Terebra texagyra nov. sp. PI. 3, fig. 10. 



T. poly,s;y}-a Ucilp., Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 1890, p. 3VW. 



Specific cha7'actenzation. — General form and size as indicated by 

 the figure; whorls about 15 ; marked as follows : slightly shouldered 

 below the suture; below, two-sevenths of the way to the next suture 

 with a moderately strong spiral stria; ribs about 15 on each whorl, 

 strong above but dying out below, not deflected or dislocated by the 

 suhsutural revolving line; columella twisted as shown in the figure. 



Conrad's T. pohjgyra has a more slender form, with far leas 

 prominent plicse. T. dioisiinim nud T. polygyra hoth show disloca- 

 tion at the subsutural line. T. texagyra reseml)les T. faiituhi in 

 some respects, but is less costate and less slender. 



Localities. — Between Orrell's and Evergreen Crossing, on Elm 

 Creek, Lee Co.; near Crockett and 2 n)iles west of Crockett, 

 Houston Co. 



This is doubtless, in part at least, the species referred to by 




1895.] NATURAL SCIKNCKS OF Tin LADKLPH I A. 55 



Aldrieh and* Meyer as "7". divisura Cou., var." They give as 

 localities, Claiborne and Lisbon, Ala. ; Wautuhbee and Newton, 

 Miss. ; Wheelock, Tex. 



Geolof/ical horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State ^luseuni. 



Terebra houstonia nov. sp. PI. 3, ti-i. 11. and IM. 4, lifj. 1. 



T. polygvra Heilp. {non Con. ), Coll. U. S. Nat. Mus. 



T. vetust'd Heilp. {non Lea), Proc. Ac. Nat. .'>ci. Pliila., 1890. p. 39S. 



.'' T. vetusta Gregorio. Mon. Fauu. Hoc. de I'Ala., pi. 1. Hks. 40, 41. 



Specifir characterization. — Size and general form as indicated in 

 the figure; whorls 12 or 13, longitudinally ribbed, the ribbing being 

 much coarser in the upper part (if the shell than in the lower; suture 

 margined below by an oi)scurely impressed revolving line; columella, 

 straight, smooth, tapering rapidly. 



This species is characterized at once by the height of its whorls in 

 comparison to their respective diameters, the bulging sides of the 

 whorls, the irregularities of the ribbing, and the straight, smooth 

 columella. 



Loralitit'.i. — .Smithville, Ba>trop Co. : near McJiee's school- hou-se, 

 Cherokee C-o. ; Little Brazos River, near iron bridge, on Mos- 

 ley's Ferry road; Cedar C'reek, Wheelock League, Kobert.son Co.; 

 Elm Creek, Lee Co. ; near Crockett and 2 miles we.><t of Crockett^ 

 Houston Co.; Collard's farm, Sparks' Headright, Brazos Co.; 

 Arnold's Kanch, Frio Co. ; .southeast of Campbellton, just south of 

 Lipan Creek, Atascosa Co. Also in Claiborne, Webb, and liien- 

 ville Parishes, La.; 2 miles east of Newton, Miss.; Clailiorne, Ala.; 

 2 miles west of Orangeburg, S. C. 



(ieoUxjical horizon. — Lower Chiil)orne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus C0NU8. 

 Conas smithvillonsis nov. sp. PI. 4, tin. '2. 



Sperifii- rhani'tfrization. — (ieneral form as figured; wliorl.< about 

 12; smaller spiral whorls costate or crenulale; penultimate whorl 

 smooth; bodv whorl -moot h, e.\C('pt about 12 revolviiiL'^ lines at bai^e. 



This spj-cie.-i i)ear.- n)uch resemblance to the figure given in I'roc. 

 Ac Nat. Sci.' riiila., 1M7!>. pi. 13, fig. S. of "('o„ii.^" pu/rhrr- 

 rimin< Heilp., lnu upon examining the ty|>e ol' ihi.s specji's now in the 

 Ainer. Mii-. Nat. Hist.. N. ^'. City, it was found to In-. ;i> already 




56 IMtOCKKDINOS oy TIIK ACADKMV OF [1895. 



Stated by MeytT, a IMeurotoinoid shell. ('. p(irni.< of H. ( ". Loa 18 

 evidently the young of sanridens Con. 



lA)ralitij. — Smithville, Bastrop Co., Tex. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus PLEUROTOMA. 

 Pleurotoma enstriorina nov. sp. IM. 4, fi^. 3. 



Specific characterization. — General form and size as indicated by 

 the figure; whorls 10; nuclear whorls 1, 2, 3, 4 smooth, 5 costate, 

 whorls 6, 7, 8, 9 ornamented by (a) a crenulated narrow band below 

 the suture, (b) a narrow concave space in which there are two or 

 three fine but distinct spiral striie, (c) a broad costate band, (d) a 

 spiral line or two, body whorl marked below the costate band by 

 coarse spiral lines and with more or less apparent lines of growth. 



Locality. — Smithville, Bastrop Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Figured Type. — Texas State Museum. 



PI. (Pleurotomella) anacona nov. sp. PI. 4, fig. 4. 



Specific characterization. — General form as figured; whorls 8; 1 

 nearly or quite smooth; 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 with (a) a broad slightly con- 

 cave band showing very faint spiral stria? and a deep retral curve 

 in the longitudinal striio, (b) a slight basal carina with two or three 

 strong spiral lines and rather faint, slightly oblique nodules; body 

 whorl with more or less alternating coarse and fine spiral lines from 

 the nodose carina to the end of the beak. 



Localities. — Well at Elgin, northeast corner of Bastrop County; 

 Smiley' s Bluff, Brazos River, 2 miles above Pond Creek, and per- 

 haps on Rocky Cedar Creek, 5 miles west of Elmo. 



Geological horizon. — Midway Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



PI. (Surcula) gabbi Con. PI. 4, fig. 5. 



Surcu la ,t^abbi Con., Am. .lour. Conch., vol. 1, 1865, p. 142, pi. 11, fig. 5. 

 Pleurotoma platyzona Heilp., Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1880, p. 1,50, fig. 3. 

 Pleurotonia alveala Con., Coll. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



In adult specimens there are 12 whorls; of the 5 nuclear, 1, 2, 

 and 3 are smooth, while 4 and 5 are prominently costate. Heilprin's 

 platyzona is an eroded specimen of this species. 



This is one of the commonest fossils in the Texan Lower Claiborne 

 Eocene and is specially abundant in Bastrop, Burleson, Lee and 

 Houston Counties. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 67 



Figured gpecimen. — Texas State Museum. * 



Type. — Probably the specimen in the Academy's collection. 



PI. (Surcula) moorei Gabb. PI. 4, fig. 6, a, b. 



Turris moorei Gabb, Jour. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila.. vol. 4, 1860, p. .37H, pi. 67, 



fig. 11 (not fig. 9 as stated in Gabb's text). 

 Pleuroloma tttomeyi Aldrich, Bull. Geol. Surv. Ala., No. 1, 1886, p. 31, pi. 3, 



fig. 11. 

 Pleurotoma tuomeyi Heilprin, Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1890, p. 394. 

 Surcula moorei Heilp., Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1S90, p. 394. 



This species shows considerable variation in form as indicated by 

 figs. 6, 6a, 6b. The specimen in the collection of the Academy is 

 of about the form and size of that represented by fig. 6, though it 

 shows more prominent denticulations on the spire, approaching fig. 

 6b in this respect. S|>ecimens of this species in the U. 8. Nat. 

 Mus. collection from Wood's Bluff, Ala. . are slightly stouter in form, 

 I.e., have a shorter spire. This, however, is not always the case, 

 for Aldrich's type from this locality is of nearly the normal form. 

 The Alabama specimens all show denticulations on the ujiper spiral 

 striie, a feature apparently overlooked by Aldrich when describing 

 his Tuomeyi. 



Localities. — Sinithville. Bit^trop Co.; Little Brazos River, Cedar 

 Creek, Wheelock I^eague, Robertson Co.; Mosley's Ferry, Burleson 

 Co.; Elm Creek, Ij<'e Co.; Alabama Bluff, Trinity River, Houston 

 Co., Texa.s. Also from Wood's Bluff, Ala. 



Type. — Probably lost. 



Geological horizon. — Lignitic, and I.x)wer Claiborne Eocene. 

 Pleurotoma beadata nov. sp. PI. 4. fig. 7. 



Sperljir chnraderization. — (General form as shown in the figure; 

 whorl.s 9; 1, 2, 8 smooth, 4, 5 transversely costate, 6, 7, 8 obliquely 

 costate, the costie most pronounced not far below the suture and 

 dying out below, evenly and coarsely striate spirally; suture bor- 

 dered l)elow by a raised crenulated line; body whorl either costate 

 on its humeral portion or plain; evenly striate spirally ; retral sinus 

 shallow, canal bjiig, straight. 



Lorality. — Smithville, Ba.strup Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Plearotoma vaaghani nov. sp. PI. 4, fig. 8. 



apecifi'- chnnirlfrization. — Size and general form as indicated by the 

 figure; whorls about 11; 1, 2, ^ smooth and very small, 4 nodular, 

 




5H PH()(KKI>IN(iS OK TIIK ACADKMY ol" [1^5)/ . 



") nodular lUxNwitli a siihsutunil line or baud; (i, 7, <H, as T), but 

 also striate !t|)i rally ; !>, 10 nodular costate, cosla^ showing a slight 

 tendeucy to become oblique, uuiinly conHued to the lower moiety of 

 the whorls, stronprly striate below, and with two notieeably larj^e 

 stria' on the carina, faintly striate above; body whorl with rather 

 coarse spiral lines alternating in size from the earinal refrion to the 

 end of the beak, siiperoarinal r(\L''i<>n faintly striate, costie obscure, 

 labrum striate within. 



Loctilifies. — Sniithville, Ba.stropCo. : Ilurrieane Bayou. Marsters' 

 Survey, Houston Co., Tex. 



Geological hin-izoii. — Lower t'lail)orne Eocene. 



Type. — Texa.s State Museum. 

 Pleurotoma huppertzi nov. sp. PI. 4. fig. it. 



Specific character Izatiov. — Size and general form as indicated in 

 the figure; whorls 11; 1, 2 smooth, 3-10 somewhat inflated sub- 

 mediallv. longitudinal costa^ obtuse, most })ronjinent submedially, 

 almost vanishing on the subsutural i)ortious of the whorls, becoming 

 short and nodular on the upper whorls, prominently striate spirally, 

 the stria often irregular and waving on the medial portions of the 

 whorls; body whorl costate and spirally striate, stria becoming of 

 alternating strength on the beak. 



Localities. — Bombshell Bluff, Colorado River, about IJ miles 

 west-northwest of Devil's Eye; Sniithville, Bastrop Co., Tex. 



A very closely allied form occurs at Wood's Bluff, Ala. The 

 main difference consists in the different location of the retral sinus. 

 lu the Alabama specimens it is located on the humeral angle while 

 in the Texan it is about one-third way from this angle to the suture. 



Geological Itorizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 

 Variety penrosei nov. var. I'l. 4, fig. 10. 



Differs from typical liuppertzi in having the whorls more acutely 

 carinated, the stiiation above the carina is evanescent, and the length 

 of the canal is often less in pro))ortion to the height of the spire. 



Localities. — Same as for huppertzi. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Ti/])e specimen. — Texas State Museum. 

 Pleurotoma leoncola nov. sp. PI. ."j, fig. 1. 



Specific characterization. — General fV)rni and size as indicated by 




1895.] XATL'KAI. SCIENCES (>K IMIILADELPHIA. 59 



the figure; whorls 9; apical 1' smooth, rather large, remaining 

 whorls cariuated centrally, au<l with evenly arranged rather low 

 but distinct costit, more prominent below the carina than above it, 

 twelve in number on the body whorl; surface microscopically striate 

 spirally, and with very fine lines of growth ; aperture a little over 

 one-half the whole length of the shell; columella long and slightly 

 twisted below. 



Lornlity. — 7 miles south of Jewett, l^eon Co. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



'^VP'^' — Collection of T. H. Aldrich, Birmingham, Ala. 



PI. (Drillia) dumblei nov. sp. PI. .t, fig. 2. 



Spurific rliitrarferlzation. — Size and general form as indicated in the 

 figure; whorls about 10, strongly carinated, concave above, convex 

 below, spiral strife much more noticeul)le lielow the carina than 

 above it; beak short, twisted, umbilicated. 



Localit;/. — ?Smithville, Bastrop Co., Tex. 



Geolofjicdl horizon. — I^ower Claiborne Eocene. 



Tiifie. — Texas State Museum. 



PI. Drillia I dipta nov. sp. I'l. .), lig. 3. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general Ibrm as shown in the 

 figure; whorls 9; 1, 2 smoofh, .'J longitudinally costate, 4-8 medially 

 carinate, carina ornamented by oblicjue nodules just below the suture 

 there is a raised line or band; body whorl with less prominent carina! 

 nodule.«, but with a lew well-(U'fined raised spiral lines; canal short, 

 slightly curved. 



Lonilitii. — Baptizing Creek. Kimble Headright, Cherokee Co., 

 Tex. 



(rf'olof/ir.ii/ horizun.-- I jywar Claiborne Eocene. 



Ti/jte. — Texas State Museum. 



PI. (Drillia) nodocarinata (i:il)l>. I'l. ■'>. tig. I. 



7'urris uoi/oi art it j/j (!:il)l». .loiir. ,\r. Nut. Sci. I'liila., vol. 1. ISUO, p. li'it, pi. 

 67. Hg. 13. 



(iabb's figure of this species is exceedingly |)Oor and his types at 

 the rhiladelphia .\cademy are in a state of confusion. In one lot 

 lal)elled " '/'///•/m iiinltiritiiimf'i (iablt. Eocene, lex.," in (ialilt's 

 handwriting mav be seen /'. uii(li>rarniiitii, voung of I*, ninnri i, rhild- 

 rmi var. , and ten hrijorviii*. On the card bearing the name Titrris 

 noilonirinnt'i mav be seen: /'/. innlnrdrinittd, rhi/ilrrni var., and 




<>0 FROCKKDINGS OK TH K ACADKMV OK [1895. 



terehriformis. All tlio^e labelled /'/. noilocnrinntu in Iltilpiiirs 

 Texan collection are trrehrlfonnla. 



The specimen herewith figured is large and well developed, while 

 Gabh's sjHH'iincn was evidently small. The sutural crenulatiun dis- 

 appears on the larger whorls. Fine revolving striie are often seen on 

 the zone between the suture and carina. 



Localities. — Two miles above San Jos6 on the Kio Grande; Sniith- 

 ville, Bastrop Co.; Wheelock, Robertson Co.; Mosley's Ferry, 

 Brazos River, Burleson Co. ; C-edar Creek, southeast corner of 

 Wheelock League, Robertson Co. ; Elm Creek, Lee Co. ; Alabama 

 Blurt', Trinity River, Houston Co.; Hurricane Bayou, near Crockett, 

 Houston Co.; 2 miles east of Alto, Cherokee Co. ; 1 mile soutli of 

 Nevilles, Gonzales Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Types. — ? Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



PI. (Drillia) prosseri nov. sp. PI. 5, fig. 5. 



Sjierific characterization. — Size and general form as indicated by 

 the figure; whorls about 8; 1, 2, and sometimes 8, smooth; 4, 5, 

 6, 7 polished, a slightly raised band just below the suture, costae 

 large, obtuse, and somewhat obliquely set; body whorl with sub- 

 sutural band not well defined, humeral ^area slightly concave and 

 gently waved by the upward extension of the ribs, which are very 

 large below; beak slightly .striate spirally. 



Localities. — Near Smithville, Jiastrop Co.;" Little Brazos River, 

 near iron bridge on Mosley's Ferry road; near Crockett, Houston 

 County. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



This species is distinguished from htijipertzi, kellogi, and varieties by 

 its polished surface, its more pointed apex, the length and obliquity 

 of the ribs, and it« size. 



PI. f Drillia) kellogi CJabb. PI. 5, fig. 6. 



Turris krllot,^i Gabb, Jour. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila., vol. 4, 18«0, !>. 379. pi. 67, 



fig. 10. 

 Surcula kellogi Con., Am. Jr. Conch., vol. 1, 1865, p. 18. 

 Surciila kellofTffi Heilp.. Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1890, p. .394. 



The two type specimens in the Philadelphia Academy's collection 

 differ but little from the specimen herewith figured. The only point 

 worthv of note is that in tho.^e sj)ecimens the length of the aperture 




1895.] NATURAIi SCIENCES OF PHILADE1.PHIA. 61 



is not quite so great in comparison with the whole length of the 

 shell. 



This species is characterized mainly by its slim spire, blunt apex, 

 and raised line at the suture. 



Localities. — Hurricane Bayou, Marsters' Surv. , near Crockett, 

 Houston Co., and, according to Gabl), '' Wheelock. Tex." 



Geological horizon. — I^wcr Claiborne Eocene. 



Tifpe. — Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



PI. iDrillia) tezacona. norn. mut. PI. 5, fig. 7. 

 Drillia texana Con. non Gabb, Amer. Jr. Conch., vol. 1, 1865, p. 143. 



Localities. — Little Brazos River, near iron bridge on Mosley's 

 Ferry road; Cedar Creek, Wheelock league, Robertson Co.; 

 Jone.*' farm. Hurricane Bayou, Houston Co.; Elm Creek, Lee Co., 

 Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Probably the specimens in the Academy of Natural Sci- 

 ences of Philadelphia. 



PI. (Drillia I texanopsis nov. sp. PI. 5, fig. 8. 



Sjtecific characterization. — Form in general as figured, though the 

 specimen drawn was young; whorls about 12; 1-5 smooth, ta|>ering 

 to a sharp point ; other spiral wiiorLs scarcely distingui.^hable from 

 those of texacont I, body whorl with faint revolving strije, becoming 

 stronger below; beak long, straight. 



( )n tlie la.'it or body whorl the costa; often become obsolete and a 

 mon- or leivs distinct carina is developed ; above which, or between 

 which and the suture, the sboulder i.>< slightly concave. 



Localities. — Smithville, Biwtrop Co.; Boinbsliell Blurt", Colorado 

 River, Tex. 



Geological horizon. — I>jwer Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas Static- Muse\im. 



Plearotoma insignifica Ileilp. PI. .'i, fig. 0. 



/•'usus nanus Ix-a, Cont. to CJcol.. 18.13. p. LW, pi. 5. fig. 1.5.i. 



I'leuroloma imignifica Heilp., I'nx:. Ac. Nat. .Sci Phila., 1H7H, p. 21.'!, |>!. 1.}, 



fig. 9. 

 Pleurotoma nana Meyer. Rcri<lit iilxr die Scnckenbcrgischf Naturforsclu-n<lc 



ficselLscliiiri ill Kniiikfiirl. si. M. .'^)nflfr-Atis<lrurk. Ihm", p. IH. 

 /•'n%us { l.iro/iisua) nanus !><• firi-g., Mon. Faiiii. Hoc. .\la., p. h7. 



This species shows considerable variation at Clailwrne. .\h ii rule 

 the larger speciriiens are not .«o stronglv cariiiMtcd a.s the specimen 

 herewith illustrate*!. The type H|)ecin)en of Fu-fiiH nmniM at the 

 Philadelphia Academy has been compared with the Texan form and 




^'* PROCKKDINCJS OF TIIK ACADKMY OK [1895. 



thoro seems to he no reason for (loul)tiii^f their ideiilifv- Meyer was 

 right iu referring tliis species to I'/riirotonta, and 77. iKtna would 

 stand were it not for the fact that Deshayes in 1824 (Desc. Coq. Foss. 

 des Env. de Paris, j). 4S2. vol. 2, pi. ()8, fig^. 1J», 20, 21, 22) used the 

 same name for a Paris liasin shell. Cossnian has referred Deshayes' 

 shell lo the genus Homotoma (Bellardi, lH7o) and has also referred 

 other specimens to this genus which in general resemble Lea's and 

 Heil|)rin's figures of nana Lea, and 'nit<i<i)iifirn Heilp. At any rate 

 the generic affinities of ninm Lea, an<l ikdui Deshayes are too close 

 to allow the retention of Lea's name: accordingly lleilprin's luime, 

 iusiijnipcii, must he adopted. 



Lea's and Heilprin's characterization of this form being very im- 

 |)erfect, the following is offered: — 



Size and general form as shown by the figure; whorls 8-10; 1, 2, 

 3 smooth, 4-8 w'ith (a) a subsutural line, (b) a broad, faintly marked 

 concave zone, (c) a strong carinal stria and just above it sometimes a 

 faint line, (d) a strong subcarinal revolving line; body whorl with the 

 subsutural line or band; the concave zone marked by curving longi- 

 tudinal strite and faint spirals; carinal angle 110°; subcarinal space 

 with about twenty-five revolving linos somewhat alternating in size; 

 labrum within >ometiraes with one or two blunt, tooth-like elevations 

 located back some distance from the margin. 



Loralitlrx. — Smithville, Bastrop (V).: Little Brazos River, near 

 iron bridge, on Mosley's Ferry road. Also Claiborne, Ala. 



Geological horizon. — Lower and Lpper Claiborne Eocene. 



Tyjie. — Of )iaiia at the Philadelphia Academy, o^ insigiiifica at 

 Mus. Nat. Hist. N. Y. 



PI. (Mangilia) infans Mr. PI. 5, lig. 10. 



'iScobi)tclla liCi'iplicata Gabt), Jr. Ac. Nat. Sci. riii!;i., vol. 4, ISGO, p. :i80, pi. 



67, tig. 20. 

 Scobinella Iceviplicata .\ld., M.S., pi. 1, fig. 11. 

 Plcurotoma infans Meyer, Bull. (ieol. Surv. Ala., .No. 1, 1S06, pi. 2, fig. 9. 



Meyer's specimens were evidently all young or imperfect, for in 

 the well-grown examples from Texas there are four adult whorls. 

 Moreover they show two large tooth-like projections on the inside of 

 the labrum, and not unfrequently two small plaits on the columella. 

 On the smooth sinus zone there is sometimes a fine spiral line, occa- 

 sionally there are two. 



Localities. — Meyer gives for localities Red Bluff, Newton, and 

 Vicksburg, Miss. In the collection of the U. S. Nat. Mus. it occurs 




1895.] NATrKAL SCIENCES OK PHIl.ADELHHIA. 63 



i'ruDx Calhoun Co., Fla. In Texas: Sinitliville, Bastrop Co.; Col- 

 leire Sta.. Brazos Co.; 2 miles west of Crockett, aud ou Jones' 

 farm, Hurricane Bayou, Houston Co.; Collard's farm, Town Branch, 

 Brazos Co. 



Geolo'/ical Iwri-mi. — Lower Claiborne Eocene, Vicksburg Eocene, 

 Ix)\ver Miocene. 



Ti/pe. — Aklrich's collection. 



PI. iBorsonia) plenta nov. sp. (by Aid. and liar.). PI. ."). fig. 11. a. 



Specific characterization. — General form as indicated by the figure: 

 whorls 13 or 14; 1, 2, 3 smooth, globose; 4 slightly nodular or sub- 

 costate submedially and with an elevation just below the suture; 5, 

 6, 7 .-^ubcariuate with nodules on the carinic ; .S, 9, 10, 11 carinate 

 submedially. carina bisected by a depressed spiral line; space be- 

 tween the carina and suture above concave, traversed by about six 

 spiral atriie of equal size, with a slightly elevated band just below 

 the suture; 12 and \'.\ obtusely carinate with about six fine lines 

 above and four below; body whorl finely striated above the carina 

 and for a short distance below, thence coarsely or alternately striate 

 to the end of the canal ; outer lip sharp, lira^ within exclusively con- 

 fined to the inriated portion of the shell and disappearing some dis- 

 tance before reaching the margin of the lip; inner lip very thin 

 showing only on well-preserved specimens; columella with one strong 

 plait located three-fourths of the way from the base to the upj>er 

 terminus of the aperture. 



In a few specimens there are traces of a second plait on the colu- 

 mella a short distance below the one referred to above. 



LornUtie.i. — Smithville, Jiastrop Co. (rare); Wheelock, Robert- 

 son Co.; Mosley's Ferry, Brazos River. Burleson Co.; Cedar Creek, 

 Wheelock League, Robert>*<)n Co.: College Sta.. Brazos Co.; Camp- 

 bell ('reek, Robertson Co., Tex. 



(ieolotfirnl horizon. — I>ower Claiiwrne Eocene. 



T'l/ic. — Texas State Mu.seum. 

 PI. I Eacheilodoai retioulatoides nov. n\>. I'l. .'>. (Ik l*'- 



Sfierific chtirarter!ziilion.'-^\7.e and general iorni a.» indicated by 

 the figure: whorls about 10; 1. 2, 3 smooth, tapering rapidly U> a 

 point; 4 more or less costate; remaining whorls ornamented as fol- 

 lows: just l>elow the suture, a rai.sed line <ir band, below which a 

 sunken zone is marked in the larger whorls by from one to three 




6^ PROCKKDINOS OK THE ACADKMY OK [1895. 



spiral inrisetl lines crossed ohliquoly l>y lints of fjrowlh i;ivii),Li: this 

 j>ortion of the whorl a cancellated appearance; on the body whorl, 

 below the three or four cancellated strong medial spiral lines, liiere 

 are from 15 to l.S more or less crenulated spiral lines, tending in 

 some instances to alternate in size; lahrum within with strong lira- 

 tions; columella rather long, straight, and with one strong plait located 

 above the middle, below which there are generally several minor folds, 

 decreasing in size downward. 



In many of its features this species is intermediate between the 

 young of Borsonia /)/enta as here figured and Eiicheilodon reticulata. 



Locality. — Mosley's Ferry, Brazos River, Tex. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



PI. (Taranis) finexa nov. sp. PL 5, lig. 13. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as indicated by 

 the figure; whorls 6; 2 nuclear, smooth; remaining whorls with (a) 

 a subsutiiral raised ridge, (b) a strong medial carina, (c) a prominent 

 raised line between the carina and the suture below, (d) fine costaj 

 passing perpendicularly on the lower half of the whorl and obliquely 

 to the left from the carina to the. suture above; body whorl bicari- 

 nate, between the two carinie, a strong raised line, below the carina 

 about six raised spiral lines; columella slightly concave; labrum 

 within showing channels and ridges corresponding to the exterior 

 marking. 



Locality. — Sraithville, Bastrop Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon.— Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type.. — Texas State Museum. 



PI. ( Clathurella ? ) fannse nov. .sp. I'l. 5, fig. 14. 



S/jecIfi'- characterizatio)i. — Size and general form as indicated by 

 the figure; whorls 7 ; 1-3 smooth, 4 finely and obliquely costate, 

 remaining whorls cancellated by narrow costae and 1 super-humeral 

 and 4 sub-humeral raised line; columella long, straight, and smooth. 



Locality. — Collier's Ferry, Brazos River, Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Tyjte. — Texas State Museum. 

 PI. (Bela) rebeccae nov. sp. PI. 5, fig. 15. 



Specific cliuracferization. — Size and general form as shown by the 

 figure; whorls 7; 1 and 2 small, smooth, 3 finely costate longitudi- 

 nally; remaining whorls with ci) a sub-sutural raised line, (b) one 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 65 



or two humeral Hoes, (c) one prominent line on the humeral anele, 

 (d) many alternating lines below, ( e) numerous costiv (15 on the 

 body whorl), most prominent on the humeral angle. 



Locality. — Smithyille, Bastrop Co., Tex. 



Geoloijienl horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Ttjpe. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus CANCELLARIA. 

 Cancellaria panones nov. sp. PI. 6, fig. 1. 



Specific clximcterizatioii. — Size and general form as shown in the 

 figure; whorls 5; 1 and 2 smooth; 3 and 4 with sharp Scala-like 

 costie, shoulder narrow, slightly convex; body whorl shouldered as 3 

 and 4, with about fifteen smooth sharp cost«?, .spirally striate below; 

 mouth ovate triangular, with about ton labrum crenulw and three 

 columellar folds ; umbilicus not very large. 



In this species the ribs arc often somewhat irregular. On the 

 spiral whorls two or three ribs are considerably larger than the 

 others. The costie just behind the aperture are generally of small 

 size or evanescent. 



Lorulitici. — SmithyUh, Bastrop Co.; 2 miles east of Alto, Chero- 

 kee Co., Tex. 



Geological Ixorizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Tijpe. — Texa.s State Museum. 



C. panones. var. smithvillensis nuv. var. I'l. 0, (ig. 2. 



Differs from the typical form in iiaving spiral .striie ; about four 

 on the lower spiral whorls and fourteen on the body whorl. The 

 raouth is slightly larger in proportion to the length of the shell. 



Localities. — Smithville, liastroj) Co.; Little Brazos River, near 

 iron bridge on Mosley's Ferry road; Orrell's crossing. Elm Creek, 

 Lee Co., Tex. 



Geoloffical horizon. — I^ower Claiborne Eocene. 



Tifpe. — Texas State Museum. 



C. panones. var. junipera iiov. \ar. I'l. tl, (ijc. 3. 



In this variety the spiral striu- are t|uite nnmerous. tin- nioiiib \» 

 small in compari.son with the length of the f*ln 11. ami there arc Imt 

 tw6 prominent columellar folds. 



Loritliflr.-*. — Smithville, lia.-trop Co. ; lUutf on Colnrinln Kivcr, 

 just l)t'lt)W the mouth of .Mum ("reek, not f:ir abuve Smithville; 




**'' 1M{()<KKI>IN<JS OF TJIK ACADKMY OK [1895. 



Cedar Creek, simthcast corner of Wlieeloek League, Koitertsoii Co., 

 Tex. 



Qeoloijiral horizon. — I>o\ver Clailmnie Eoceue. 



Ttipe. — Texas State Museum. 



Canoellaria penrosei iiov. sp. ri.O, tif;. 4. 



•Specijir rharnrterization. — Size and jrenenil fijrni as indicated hv 

 the figure; whorls o; 1, 2, 2i smooth; 8, 4 caiiceUated l)y about 

 18 sharp ril)s over which pass "> spiral lines, the uppermost on the 

 humeral angle and some little distance ahove the others; body whorl 

 with about eighteen ccstte and twelve revolving lines, the uppermost 

 of which, on the humeral angle is separated from the next below by 

 a double sj)a('e; aperture with two cohimellar folds and about six 

 labral crenuhe; und)ilicus moderate. Surface not polished as in the 

 two above-described species. 



Localities. — Sndthville, Bastrop C'o. ; Dr. Williams' quarry, R. 

 Stephenson's Headright, Brazos Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Tx)wer Claiborne Eocene. 



Tifpe. — Texas State Museum. 



Cancellaria bastropensis nov. sp. 1*1. (>, li^. 5. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as shown in the 

 figure; whorls 7; nuclear whorls 2\, of which two are smooth, and 

 the last half finely cancellated ; 4, 5, 6 somewhat irregularly cos- 

 tate, about ten costse on the penultimate whorl; spiral strite few and 

 strong on the sides of the whorls, but becoming more closely set and 

 finer on the subsutural region ; body whorl with irregular, obtuse 

 costie crossed by about fourteen spiral lines, strong medially but de- 

 creasing in size towards the suture; labral dentes six on a raised 

 ridge; columella with two distinct folds and a rudimentary third be- 

 low ; umbilicus rudimentary. 



Locnlitij. — Smith ville, Bastrop Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eoceue. 



Tiipe. — Texas State Museum. 



Cancellaria ulmula nov. sp. I'l. f>. (ig. <;. 



Specific charade rinticK. — Size and general form as indicated by the 

 figure; whorls 4; 1, 2 smooth; o with seven spiral striie ; i)ody whorl 

 with about eighteen strong revolving lines and an eijual Miind)er of 

 intercalated fine strire, lines of gnjwth prominent; coliiniella with 




1895.] XATIKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 67 



two prominent folds on its central portion and a third, rndinieTitary 

 one below; umbilicus small. 



Locality. — Elm Creek, Lee Co.. Tex. 



Geolof/icdl horizon. — I^wer Claib(M-ne Eocene. 



Ti/pf. — Texas State Museum. 



Cancellaria ellapsa Con.. .Vnier. .Tour. (.Vinch.. vol. 1. 18ti.5.p. 212. pi. 21 (not 20). 



fig. 8. 



This Conrad describes a.- an Eocene species from Texas, l»ut it 

 proves upon examination to be nothing but " Trichotropis cancellaria 

 Con.," a species described by Conrad from the Ripley Cretaceous beils 

 of Mississippi. The Texas specimen wa.< probablv deriveil from the 

 upi>er Cretaceous not far below Austin. 



Genus VOLVARIA. 

 Volvaria gabbiana nov. sp. PI. G, fif;. 7. 



.)/jri,'////7/j ( I'aharia) irabbiatia Aid., M.S.. pi. 2. fi^'. 13. 



Specijie characterization. — Size and general form as shown by the 

 figure: whorls 3; 1, smooth; 2, spirally striate; body whorl long 

 cylindrical, spirally striate with faint punctations in the striie; 

 labruni sharp-edged ; labium with four basal folds varying in size 

 as follows : at base a moderate sized fold, above, a stronger one, still 

 above, a moderate size<l (me, and above all, a very faint one. 



Ijocnlities. — Devil's Eye, Colorado River, Bastroj) Co. ; bluff just 

 below the mouth of Alum Creek, Tex. 



Geoloijical horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Tyjtf. — Texa.s State Mu>^eum. 



Genus VOLUTILITHES. 

 Volutilithes dalli nov. sp. I'l. il. li>;. s. a. 



Cariirlla rf/icu/a/j Hcily.. udii Aid., I'rot-. A*-. Nat.Sci. IMiila.. isfto, ji. 3»6. 



Sjtecifir chaniHrrizntion. — Size ancl gejieral form as indicated bv 

 the figures; whorls about 7; spiral whorls and shoulder of the body 

 whorl generally coarsely cancellated with revolving lines and trans- 

 verse costie; humeral angle of the body whorl often spino.«e; medial 

 |)ortion of the body whorl with finer but very <listinct revolving 

 Htriie and fine lines of growth: base of bo<ly whorl as in other mem- 

 bers of this genus; labnim strongly Urate within; columella with 

 two well-define<l obliipie plaits and sometimes one or more nidinien- 

 tary ones. 



Thf amount of reticulaliiMi or ornamentation jK».«sessed by dilli-rent 




6"'^ I'HOC'KKIUNaS OF TIfK APAnKMY OK [189,"). 



iiulividimls of this speries varies greatly. Some specimens arc (piite 

 amootli oil the medial portion of the hody whorl, and show hut slight 

 irregularities on the shoulder. A form of this character is shown in 

 fig. 8a. Such specimens have usually two well-marked folds on the 

 coliinu'lla and no trace of atlditional ones. 



This species is evidently related to V. haleanus Whitfd., hut is 

 less strongly sculptured, and wants the peculiar concave humeral 

 zone of that species. Moreover, haleanin* has three distinct and well- 

 defined columellar plaits. 



This species is named in honor of W. H. Dall, the well-known 

 authority on Voluthhr. 



Localities. — Smith ville; Cedar Creek, Robertson Co., Tex. 



Horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus CARICELLA. 

 Caricella demissa Con., var. texana Gabb. PI. 6, fig. 9. 



Cinibiola texana Gabb, .Jour. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila., vol. 4, p. 382, pi. 67, tig. 33. 

 CaricfUa demissa Harris. Exp. Sta. Uept., pt. 1, Geol. anil Agr. , 1892. A Pre- 

 liminary Report upon the Hills of La., by Otto Lcrch, p. 29. 



Gabb cites his C. texana horn " Wheelock, Tex." His specimen 

 was evidently small and badly preserved. Normally there are six 

 whorls. The columella is considerably recurved, but this is a feature 

 that could not be determined from a specimen lacking its anterior 

 canal as did Gabb's type. The ornamentation of the spiral whorii 

 consists of revolving lines, more distinct above, and more or less 

 regular and apparent longitudinal plaits. Below the suture there is 

 a slight constriction. 



Localities. — Smithville, Bastrop Co. ; Alabama Blutf, Trinity 

 River, Houston Co.; Hurricane Bayou, Houston Co., Tex. Also 

 near Mt. Lebanon, Bienville Parish, La. 



Oeolorfical horizon of this variety. — Ijower Claiborne Eocene. 



Caricella subangulata Conrad, var. cherokeensis nov. var. PI. 6, fig. 10. 



Variety character isti en. — Size and general form as indicated in the 

 figure; whorls 5; 1 mammillated; 2, 3, 4 spirally striate, suture 

 distinct ; body whorl shouldered, spirally striate above and also at 

 the ba.se of the whorl ; columellar plaits four, the lower two more 

 oblique. 



Typical n^ihangnlata is larger, but with about one less whorl, and 

 with lower and more obtuse spire. 




1895.] NATIKAJ- SCIENCKS OK PHILADELPHIA. 69 



LocalHies. — Moi^ley's Ferry, Brazos Kiver, Burlesou Co.; two 

 miles west of Crockett, Houston Co.; Collier's Ferry, Burleson Co.; 

 two miles east of Alto, Cherokee Co. ; Collard's farm. Sparks' Head- 

 right, Brazos Co., Texas. 



Geological liorizo)i of the vuriefy. — Ix>wer Claiborne Eocene. 



Type of the varietij. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus TURRICULA. 

 Turricula iConomitrai texana nov. sp. I'l. 0, fig. 11. 



Sj,erific chnrarterization. — Size and form as indicated in the figure; 

 whorls 5; nuclear whorl obtuse, smooth; other spiral whorls orna- 

 mented by longitudinal costie, and a slight, subsutural depression; 

 body whorl with much more numerous costte, a slight subsutural de- 

 pression, surface without a trace of spiral lines and polished ; colu- 

 mella 4-plaite<l, the penultimate the largest; labrum creinilate within. 



LonilitifA. — Well at College Sta. , Brazos Co.; Alabama Bluff, 

 Trinity River, Houston Co.; Hurricane Bayou, near Crockett, Hous- 

 ton Co.; Collard's farm, Town Branch, Brazos Co., Tex. 



fieolocjiral hon'zoii. — Ix)wer Claiborne Eocene. 



Tifjte. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus LEVIFUSUS. 



LevifuBUB trabeatoides nov. sp. PI. 6, fig. 12, a. 



/■'usus Irahcatus lleilp. (not Con.), Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1890, p. \Vdft. 



Specific characterizntion. — General form as figured ; whorls 8 or 9; 

 1, 2, 3 smooth and polished, 4 sub-biangulate, 5, 6 with one spiral 

 line just below the suture and two or three more near the base of 

 each whorl where they are cros.sed by sharp, fine, costiP, 7 evenly 

 striate spirally showing more or less distinct costie and (nirving lines 

 of growth; l)ody whorl evenly striate, bicarinate, with faint indica- 

 tions of tid)ercle8 on each carina, lines of growth with a retral curve 

 aljove the upper carina re.sendiliiig those of .SV/v/fA/ ; laiiruin strongly 

 striate within. 



Below the two prominent carina- there is a third faint one. Large 

 old specimens sometimes show on the body whorl one very strong 

 carina above, while the two lower are rudimentary. Fragments 

 have been obtained which would indicate a total length of an entire 

 8|)ecimen of at least three inches. 



The generic name Levijumin. us fur as the writer is aware, luu* 

 never been characterize*! ; vet sincj- Conrad has nl\'rn<l \<> it the 




l'l!it<i:i:i>IN<lS OK IIIK ACAHK.M V OK 



[1895. 



s|KH'ies toriiuM'lv descrilHMl us Fiixks lrithf'(i(n.-< aixl liii.^i/i-mi / hlnkei, 

 its charju'teis must Ite fairly familiar to every worker in Tertiary 

 paleoiitoloLTV. Tliey may l)e simiined up as follows: — 



Shell of FuluMuate aspect and aHiuities (not Fusoid as the name 

 unfortunately indieates) ; with three carinje on the hody whorl, the 

 uppermost stronj^est and ii:enerally spinose, the second less distinct 

 and less frequently spinose, the third or lowest generally faint and 

 ohtuse and with no si<j:ns of tuhercle^s or spiiu-s. 



Besides the two species referred to this j^euus by Conrad, the 

 writer has added two more, viz., Lerijiisiix hniitiier!, originally de- 

 scribed from the White Hluti' horizon of Arkansas, and L. traheat- 

 oldes. 



At Wood's liluti" Ala., there is a form of LevifuKits with charac- 

 ters intermediate between L. trabeatiis and L. trabeutoides and it is 

 doubtless the ancestral type of both. This prototype may then be 

 regarded as having produced the true L. traheatus in Alabama, 

 while in Texas the L. trabeutoides was developed. L. blakei is 

 somewhat more tuberculate on its uppermost carina than L. trabeatus 

 or L. trabeatoide.i but is not so strongly marked as L. branneri; 

 the last- mentioned species the writer has recently found in typical 

 Jackson Eocene deposits at Moody's Branch, Jackson, Miss. 



Localities. — Rio Grande, 2 miles above San Jose, Tex.; Mosley's 

 Ferry, Brazos River; Colorado River, bluff just below the mouth of 

 Alum Creek ; Rio Grande, 15 miles below Carrizo; Little Brazos 

 River, near iron bridge on Mosley's Ferry road; Brazos River, 500 

 yards below the mouth of Little Brazos; Cedar Creek, southeast 

 corner of Wheelock League, Robertson Co. ; Smithvill^, JiastropCo.; 

 Alum Bluff, Trinity River, Houston Co.; Campbell Creek, Robert- 

 son Co.; 2 miles west of Crockett, Hou.ston Co.; northwest corner of 

 Madison Co.; Jones' farm, Hurricane Bayou, Houston Co.; Orrell's 

 crossing, Elm Creek, Lee Co. ; cutting on Houston, East & West 

 Texas R. R., 4 miles north of Corrigan, Polk Co.; southeast corner 

 of Frio Co.; southeast of Campbellton, south of Lipan Creek, Atas- 

 cosa Co. Also at Gibljslaud, Bienville Park, La., and Walnut Bluff, 

 Ouachita River, Ark. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Tyjjc. — Texas State Museum. 




1895.] NATl'KAI. SCIENCES OF I'lH r.ADEI^PIlI A. 71 



Genus LATIRUS. 

 Latirus singleyi iiov. sp. I'l. tj. tig. i:?. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as shown l)y the 

 figure; whorls 9?; 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 marked hy obtuse rounded ribs, 

 which extenil from suture to suture, by five strong, waving spiral 

 lines on each whorl, and by tine, sharp, and even lines of growth 

 most plaiulv visil)le l)etween the eostie ; Imdy wliorl with six obtuse 

 costie and about 24 raised spiral lines which, in the humeral region, 

 consists of one strong series between which finer lines alternate, but 

 below all become equal; lines of growth sharp and distinct, but fine; 

 columella with two strong, oblique folds and a rudimentary one be- 

 low; labium extending in a thin polished plate over the columella; 

 umbilicus rudimentary. 



Lofaidy. — Elm Creek. Lee Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Tiijie. — Texas State Museum. 

 Latirus singleyi var. PI. 6. lig. ISu. 



This is smaller than the typical form and nmre slender with less 

 distinct lines of growth. 



Lorit/it;/. — Hurricane Bay(ni, near Crockett, Houston Co.. Tex. 



Geolofjival horizon. — Ivower Clail)orne Eocene. 



Tjfj)^. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus STREPSIDURA. 



Strepsidura ficus (JaMi. 1*1. 7. lis.'. I- 



U'ltilnrvj /icii^ (iabb. iie»\. Surv. Ciihi., Paleont., vol. 1, IHM. p. 104, pi. 28, 



/ /in//)i/'usits inaura/ns Heilp.. I'roc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Pliila., Ism). p. 3»ti. 



The s|)eciinen figured is al»oul one- half the size of the California 

 tv|)es and is erode<l at the summit. Other specimens, though upon 

 the whole less perfect, show the surfiu-i- markings much better than 

 the figured specimen does. 



Lorn Hi !€.■<. — "Ft. Tejon, ( al.." (iabb; Alum Creek Bliifi', ( 'olo- 

 rado River, not far above Smi'hville, IJastrop Co., Tex. 



Geolofjival horizon. — l/)wpr Claiborne Eocene. 



Ti/fir. — Texas Stale Mur-euiii. 



Genus FUSUS. 

 Fusus bastropensis n<iv. sp. PI. 7. i\n. 2. 



Sjirrifir rharnrlprization.- '>\/.v and general form as inilii:it<-d in 

 the figure; whorls \i\ or 14; 1 and *J very minute, .■imnotb, .". and 4 

 transversely coslatc, '>-\'2 with nodose ol)tuae ribs, di-timt in •». (>, 




"- PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACAUKMY OK [1895. 



etc., but less marked in 11 iind 12, eros.se(l by six or seven spiral 

 rai-sed lines, (-oarse or strong near the htxse of each whorl; one spiral 

 line, jienerally the second from the base forms a slight carina! ion on 

 the whorls; body whorl with l)road nodulations, about seven in num- 

 l)er, and with strong sj)iral raised lines, the two on the largest part 

 of the whorls being largest, above which there are two or three well- 

 marked lines and below which to the end of the canal the lines 

 gradually decrease in size and are more or less alternating; labrum, 

 as far as observed, non-striate within; columella long, smooth, and 

 straight. 



This resembles somewhat F. 77iei/eri Aid. 



Localitie.'i. — Smithville, liastrop Co., Tex. Also in Claiborne and 

 Bienville Parishes, La. 



Geological hori-^on. — Ix)wer Claiborne Eocene. 



Type.— Coll of G. D. Harris. 

 Fusus ostrarupis nov. sp. PI. 7, fig. 3. 



Sperifir characterization. — General form as figured; whorls 8; 1 

 and 2 smooth and polished, 3 sometimes polished, with long, undu- 

 lating costie. 4, 5, 6, 7 evenly striate spirally, and with seven or 

 eight longitudinal costje; costae decreasing in size about or just be- 

 low the suture where a slightly depressed zone occurs; body whorl 

 with eight or ten costie somewhat variable in size, subsutural zone 

 much compressed, spiral strige moderately even but slightly strongest 

 on the largest part of the whorl; labrum strongly striate within; 

 columella recurving; umbilicus rudimentary. 



Locality. — Smiley's Bluff, Brazos River, 2 miles above the mouth 

 of Pond Creek, Milam Co., Tex. Oyster Bluff of Penrose's Report 



Geological horizon. — Midway Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 

 Fasus mortoni, var. mortoniopsis Gabb. PI. 7, fig. 4. 

 Fusus mortoni I.*a, var. carexus nov. var. PI. 7, fig. 5. 



Differs from mortoniopsis Gabb, which is doubtless a variety only 

 of mortoni I^ea, by having a strong carina, one additional spiral line 

 on the shoulder and less strongly alternating on the canal. The shell 

 is much broader in proportion to its height and has a lower spire. 



Localitii. — Between Orrell's and Evergreen Crossing, Elm Creek ; 

 Lee Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 73 



Genus CLAVILITHES. 

 Clavilithes regexus nov. sp. PI. 7, fig. 6. 



This species is too poorly represented in the collection of the Sur- 

 vey to admit of complete characterization specifically. It is compar- 

 able in size with C. j/enrosei lleilp. , and resembles the latter in the 

 lower part of the whorls and in the long, smooth columella. Above, 

 however, it shows no traces of a shoulder, the whorls are slightly 

 flattened laterally, and are smooth and polished. 



LocaliUes. — Near McBee School- house, Cherokee Co.; between 

 Orrell's and Evergreen Crossing, Elm Creek, Lee Co.; 2 miles west 

 of Crockett, Houston Co.; Berryniau Place, Kimble Headright, 

 Cherokee Co. ; 3 miles north of C'rockett, Houston Co. 



Geological horizon. — I^)wer Claiborne Eocene. 



Tijiie. — Texas State Collection. 

 Clavilithes humerosus Conrad, var. tezanus nov. var. PI. 7, fig. 7. 



Differs from typical hiniierofii.f in having tlie sides of the body 

 whorl nearly rectilinear, in having a more })rominent shoulder at the 

 suture, and in being of a smaller size generally. Many specimens 

 approach closely ClnvilifheK longievns of the middle Eocene of Europe. 



IjorttlifleK. — Near McHce .school-house, Cherokee Co.; Alum ('reek 

 Bluff, Colorado River, Bastrop Co.; Wilson Reid Headright, BrazoB 

 Co.; Hurricane Bayou, Hodge's Headright, Houston Co.; north- 

 west corner of Madi.son County; Collier's Ferry, Burleson C'o. ; 

 Collard farm, Sparks' Headright, Brazos Co., Tex. Also in Clai- 

 borne and Bienville Parishes, La., and 2' miles east of Newton, near 

 Enterprise, Miss. 



Geological horizon. — I^ower Claiborne Eocene. 



Tiific. — Texas State Museum. 

 Clavilithes kennedyanas nov. sp. PI, 7, fig. 8. 



S/>frifir characterization. — General form as figured; whorls 10 or 

 12; 1 and 2 probably smooth; ."^-lO with nodular ribs most promi- 

 nent on the lower jwrtions of the whorls, crossed by raised spiral 

 lines and by even lines of growth; body whorl in the type specimen 

 very |)o<)rlv preserved, but showing few signs of costse; columella 

 ponderous. 



Locality. — Smithville, Bastrop Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — I^jwer Clailwrue Eocene. 



Ttjfie. — Texas State Museum. 

 6 




74 l»K(KKi;i)IN({S OF TUK AfAItK.MY oK [1895. 



Clavilithes (Fapillina I dumosus (on., viir. trapaquarus ixiv. vni. I'l. s, li^;. i. 

 Fusus (PapHliua) liumosus Harris, \a\. Kxp .><ta,. lS!t-'. Kopt. on the Mills of 

 La., p. 2t». 



This i.s Ji hoavier, more solid form than the typical dumosus; it has 

 alwut two more spines on tlie body whorl and has a smaller api'.\. 



rjoca/itle^. — Hrazos River, 1 mile below Milam- Hnrle.><on Connty 

 line; near McBee School-house, Cherokee Co.; Alum Bluff, Trinity 

 River, Houston Co.; 5 miles west of Crockett, Houston Co. ; Hurri- 

 cane Bayou, Marsters' Survey, near Crockett, Collier's Ferry, Bra- 

 zos River, Burleson Co.; north of Collefre, Crockett, Houston Co.; 

 Dr. Collard's farm, Sjjarks Headri;:ht. Brazos Co. In Louisiana, 

 near Mt. Lebanon, Bienville Parish. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Tt(])e. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus CHRYSODOMUS. 

 Chrysodomus parbrazana nov. sp. PI. 7, tig. 9. 



Sj)ecijic characterization. — General size and foi-m as indicated by 

 the figure; whorls 6; spiral whorls smooth, with a faint subsutural 

 spiral line ; body whorl ornamented with the .subsutural line and 

 about ten basal spiral lines ; outer lip sharp edged, lirate within. 



Locality. — Little Brazos River, near iron bridge, on Mosley's 

 Ferry road. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus ASTYRIS. 

 Astyris bastropensis nov. si>. PI. s, tig. -2. 



Specific characterization. — General form and size as indicated by 

 the figure; whorls 10; 1, 2, o smooth and polished; 4 costate ; 

 5-9 smooth and polished, sometimes one spiral line at base of 8 and 

 9 ; body whorl smooth above the upper terminus of the aperture, 

 strongly striate below. 



The general outline of the shell is strikingly like that of Turricula 

 jiolita. 



Locality. — Smithville, Bastrop Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Ix)wer Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus MUREX. 

 Murez fusates imv. sp. I'l. s, fig. .=>. 



Specifix; characterization. — Size and general form as indicated by 

 the figure ; whorls X ; 1,2, 3, 4 smooth and polished, very small ; 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHIJ.ADKLPHI A. 75 



5, 6, 7 with about three coarse revolviug raised lines, with obtuse 

 regular longitudinal costie; body whorl with regular strong raised 

 lines on its larger portion and finer ones below, also with seven 

 obtuse costii' over which the spiral lines pass ; labrum with five or 

 six crenulations within; a basal iS^assa-like fold on the columella. 



In a general way this species resend)les M. vanuxemi Con., but the 

 costa* are very different and show no signs of forming acute angles, 

 folds or spines. 



Locality. — Smithville, Bastrop Co. , Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Ti/jje. — Texas State Museum. • 



Subgenus ODONTOPOLYS. 



M. I Odontopolys I comp&orhytis (lahb. PI. x. fig. «. 



Af. ( Odont. ) compsorhytis Gabb. Jour. Ac. Nat. .Sci. Phila.. vol. 4. 1860, p. 377, 



pi. 67. fig. 16. 

 Murex sp.'/ Harris, La. Exp. Sta., Kept, on Hills of La., pt. 1, 1892, p. 29. 



According to Gabb the type of this species came from Wheelock, 

 Tex., and was deposited in the collections of the Smithsonian Insti- 

 tution. Unfortunately it has been lost. The State Survey's collec- 

 tion has yielded no specimens of this species, but in the U. S. National 

 Museum there is a specimen collected by T. Wayland Vaughau, from 

 Hammett's branch, 2 miles east of Mt. Lebanon, Bienville Parish, 

 La. This is herewith iigured. 



Gabb's figure of this species is very poor, while his description is 

 good. His figure has been copied in Tryou's Structural and Syste- 

 matic Conchology, vol. 2, 18«:J, pi. 48, fig. 4, and this in turn is 

 copied in De Gregorio's Monograph Faun. Eoc. Ala., pi. 6, fig. 47. 



Mevcr's Odontojiolyn trijillrala, Sonder-Abdruck aus " Bericht iiber 

 die Senkenbergische Gesell.schaft in Frankfurt a. M.," 1887, p. 7, 

 pi. 1. tig. <). is a N'olute, perhaps the young of V. /letrosiis. 



Genus PSEUDOLIVA. 

 Pseudoliva ostrarupis rmv. >^p. I'l. n, tig. :j, a. 



Sjit'cilir rliiiraderizalioii. — Size and general tbrni a.s iigured ; volu- 

 tions (i, spiral whorls shouldered and somewhat costate ; suture ob- 

 scured by foli;i' devel(»j)ed bv the intermittent mode of growth ol" the 

 sutural callosity; ixxly whorl lielow scarcely distinguishable trom 

 the uon-umbilicate varieties ot" I'a. veinMa, while alM)ve, the shoulder 

 and the sutural f"oli;e at on^e definitely characU'rize the s|)eci»'s. 




76 rROCEKDlNGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



LocnliU). — Smiley's Bluff, Brazos River, 2 miles above tlie mouth 

 of Pond Creek, Milam Co., Tex. 



Oeologlca/ horizon. — Midway Eocene. 



T)fl>e. — Texas State Museum. 

 Pseadoliva ostrarupis, var. pauper nov. var. I'l. 8. fiK- 4. 



Genus TENUISCALA. 

 Tenuisoala trapaquara nov. sp. PI. N, fig. 7. 



Specific churacterization. — Size and ^'eiieral form as shown by the 

 figure; whorls 12 or more; uuclear 4 smooth and polished; 5-11 

 traversed by fine sharp longitudinal costae and numerous spiral lines, 

 the latter consisting of five coarse lines occupying the medial and 

 basal ])ortions of the whorl and as many microscopic lines on a sub- 

 BUtural zone; body whorl generally but imperfectly preserved, sculp- 

 turing as in the whorls immediately above, the base, however, being 

 exposed, shows from 12 to 15 .strong spiral lines. 



Localitie.-^. — Mosley's Ferry, Brazos River, Burleson Co.; Smith- 

 ville, Bastrop Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



T. trapaquara, var. engona nov. var. 



Slightly shorter, more angulated, and with a broad subsutural band 

 without strong revolving striae. 



Locality. — Smithville, Bastrop Co. , Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus PYRAMIDELLA. 

 Pyramidella bastropensis nov. sp. PI 8, fig. 9. 



Specific characterization. — Size and general form as shown by the 

 figure; whorls 13 or 14, polished: suture channelled; one sharp strong 

 fold on the columella. 



This species resembles to some extent E. perexilis Con., but differs 

 from it by being broader at base and more rapidly tapering in the 

 lower four or five whorls. 



Locality. — Smithville, Bastrop Co. , Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 77 



Genus SYRNOLA. 

 Syrnola trapaquara nov. sp. PI. 8. fig. 10. 



Speeijic characterization. — Size and general form as indicated by 

 the figure; whorls 7; 1 small, sinistral; 2-7 poli-shed, slightly tumid, 

 with a well-marked suture; aperture moderate, striate within; one 

 stiong plait on the columella. 



Localities. — Smithville, Bastrop Co. ; Jones' farm. Hurricane 

 Bayou, Houston Co., and in Mr. Singley's collection from Mosley's 

 Ferry. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus PYRULA. 



P. (Fusoficula) tezana nov. sp. PI. 8, tig. 11. 



Odonlopolvs texana, Aldr. Labelled specimens from Aldrich, now in the 



U. S. Nat. Mus. 

 Votulililhesr recta Aldr., MS. plates, pi. 2, tigs. 12. l:ia. 



Sperijie characterization. — General form as indicated by the figure; 

 whorls (in a mature sj>ecimen) at least 6; apex obtuse; whorl.* 1, 2 

 smooth; 3 spirally striate in part, and in part striate and costate; 

 4 and 5 with spiral rai.sed lines alternating in size, and with longi- 

 tudinal folds or costa\ the latter occa.sionally becoming varicose; 

 body whorl marked by four spiral lines on the humeral region, be- 

 low by three .series of spiral lines, and by about twenty rather 

 irregular longitudinal costic ; outer margin of the labrum sharp, 

 within thickened and with rather irregular crenulea; columella gen- 

 erally smooth; but sometimes with two irregular swellings just below 

 the [Kiint of greatest curvature. 



This is a very strange form. The apex is very o])tuse and the 

 nuclear whorl:* as a whole are generally deflected somewhat from the 

 axis of the adult shell. So far the species is a true I'yrula. More- 

 over the striation i.s that of Pifrnla, but the costation is more irregu- 

 lar than in any of the known .-^iK-cies of that genus; in fact it varies 

 from moderately fine Pyrula-like lines to strong varices. The 

 swellings on the columella, though in no v,\?e true plaits, are worthy 

 of note. They are evidently of the><ame origin and nature as those 

 in Mazzulina. 



Ijocnlities. — Mosley's P'erry, Hrazos Kivor, Hurh-sdii ('o., Little 

 Brazos River, fiear iron bridge; Cedar Creek, Ix-e Co.: Dunn'i 




78 PHOCKKUINGS OF TIIK ArADKMY OK [1895. 



Kaiich, Robertson Co. This species is also f'ouiul in various places 

 in Bienville rarish, La., and in Mississippi 2i miles cast of Newton. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Clailwrne Eocene. 



Ty/)C. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus CYPR^A. 

 Cypraea kennedyi uov. sj). PI. 8, iiti- 1~. a. • 



Specific characterization. — General form and size as indicated by 

 the figures; oral or front surface strongly ribbed transversely, ribs 

 tending to divaricate; mouth moderately wide above, broad subnicdi- 

 ally and contracted below with one plait-like fold on either side; 

 back smooth except near the margins where there are strong radi- 

 ating lines. 



Locality. — Dr. Collard's farm, Town Branch, Sparks Headright, 

 Brazos Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus RIMELLA. 

 Rimella tezana nov. sp. PI. 9, tig. 1.. 



Sjierific characterization. — Size and general form as indicated by 

 the figure; whorls 11 ; 1 exceedingly small, smooth; 2, 3, 4, 5 smooth 

 and polished; 6, 7 faintly and finely cancellated ; 8 with small longi- 

 tudinal 'j)lic8e crossed by minute spiral stria; 9, 10 more strongly 

 plicate longitudinally, plicfie most strongly developed midway of the 

 whorls; body whorl plicate superiorly though not immediately below 

 the suture; spiral stri;p very fine over the plicie l)ut coarse above 

 and very coarse below; outer lip acute below, thick and reflected 

 above, medially forming a right angle ; inner lip well defined, 

 uniting with the outer above and forming a canal that pa.sses up the 

 spire rather more than half-way to the apex, recurving descends the 

 width of a whorl or two; columella long and pointed, deflected back- 

 ward. 



Localities. — Colorado River, Devil's Eye, Ba.strop (b. ; Brazos 

 River, about one mile below the Milam-Burleson County line; Mos- 

 ley's Ferry (Singley's collection); Collier's Ferry, Burlescm Co. , Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. - 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Rimella tezana, var. plana nov. var. PI. 9, tig. 2. 



In this form, which is probably only a variety of the foregoing, 




1895.] NATIHAL SCIKNCES OF PHI J^ADEI.PHI A. 79 



the posterior canal extends nearly or tjiiite to the apex of the spire, 

 and recurving descends to near the body whorl. The only orna- 

 mentation is the spiral striation at the base of the body whorl, and 

 sometimes faint costie near the apex. 



Lorah'tie.<. — Two miles east of Alto. Cherokee Co. ; near McBee 

 iSchool-house, Cherokee Co.; Collier's Ferry, Brazos River; 2 miles 

 west of Alto, Cherokee Co.; Sulphur Springs, Rusk Co. ; Robbina' 

 well, Houston Co., Tex. 



Geohxjknl horizon. — Ijower ChiiWorne Eocene. 



Tijiie. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus CERITHIUM. 

 Cerithium webbi nov. sp. i'l. ii, tig. 'A. 



Sjitrijlr cluinictevizat'ion. — General form of young specimens as 

 shown in the figure; whorls about 9; spiral ones marked by two 

 submedial approximate spiral rows of crenules or nodes above which, 

 and just below the suture, is a tliird row with smaller crenulations ; 

 suture deep and broad; body whorl marked somewhat as those above 

 though the lower submedial row of crenules is faint, and below it to 

 the end of the beak occur spiral raised lines of varying strength; the 

 entire surface is apparently covered with minute revolving lines ; 

 lines of growth on the body whorl start at right angles to the suture 

 aliove, pass downward to the middle of the whorl, curve gradually 

 forward and, after reaching the base of the whorl, slowly again curve 

 backward and pass downward on the canal. 



Localit]!. — Rio Grande, lo miles by river below Laredo, or 9 by 

 river above the Webb-Zapata County line, Texas side. 



Cieolo(ju-ul hor'tzou. — Ijower Claiborne Eocene. 



T>ij»\ — Texas State Museum. 



Cerithiura penrosei nov. s\\. I'l. !i. li^'. 1. 



Sjierlfir characterization. — Whorls at least lo, gradually ta|)ering, 

 ornamented as follows: by (1) about seven laterally c()in|)res.'Jed. 

 obliipic subcentral or \msn\ node.s, or costie on each whorl, tho.-<c on 

 the smaller whorls of the spire not so distinctly defined as represented 

 i)y the figure; by i2> spiral lines or stria-, about five of which are 

 strong and oc(Mipy th<' lower one-third of each whorl, three or four 

 more are finer ami occu|)y a imrrovv, irregular central zone, while 

 four or five more occupv the upper or noii-ci>state portion of" the 

 whorls. 




^0 PROCKKI>INGS OF THK ACADKMY OK [1895. 



The co8tji> on the several whorls are arrauj^od in lines correspoud- 

 iug in direction to the obliquity of the costie. 



Unfortunately only fragments of this large Cerlthinm have l>een 

 founii; it doubtless measured eight or ten inches in length when en- 

 tire. 



Locality. — Srailey's Jiluti", Brazos Kiver, 2 miles abovfi the mouth 

 of Pond Creek, Milam Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Midway Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus MESALIA. 

 Mesalia olaibornensis (on. (MS). PI. <t, tig. 5. 



SjK'rijir (■hararti'rizufiviis. — Size and general torni as indicated by 

 the figure; whorls aVioiit 15; sides of the whorls nearly rectilinear; 

 sides of the spire taken as a whole slightly concave ; surface of each 

 whorl ornamented by spiral lines of three sizes, of which there are 

 from five to seven of the first and second, and double that nuniber 

 of the third magnitude, the latter are mere strirc ; lines of growth 

 faint or ol)scure; suture well defined but very narrow. 



This species is similar in some respects to Conrad's Mesalia vetvsta, 

 but can at once be distinguished by the following differences: clai- 

 honu'tt.six hsis two or three more whorls; the sides of the spires are 

 concave and not convex as in that of Vftiisfa; the suture is less dis- 

 tinctly marked by a shoulder below it; there is a total lack of those 

 strong lines or folds of growth so characteristic of vftiista : the lower 

 angulation of the body whorl is more sharply defined. 



Localities. — Colorado River, Devil's Eye, Bastrop Co. ; Mosley's 

 Ferry, Brazos River; Wheelock, Robertson Co.; Little Brazos 

 River; Cedar Creek, Wheelock League, Walker's and Mont- 

 gomery's farm, Robertson Co.; College Sta., Brazos Co. (from a well 

 1,200 feet deep); Elm Creek, near Benchley's; Wn). Reid Head- 

 right, Brazos Co. : Elm Creek, Lee Co.; lierrynum's Place, Cherokee 

 Co.; Alabama Bluff, Trinity River, Houston Co.; 5 miles west of 

 Crockett, and Hurricane Bayou, Houston Co.; northwest corner of 

 Madison Co. ; •'{ miles northeast of Crockett, on Rusk road; along Elm 

 Creek, from Orrell's to Price's crossing; Lewis' house, 2 miles east of 

 Alto, Cherokee Co. ; Dr. Collard's farm. Town Branch, Sparks Head- 

 right, Brazos Co.; Dunn's Ranch, Gafford Headright, Robertson 

 Co.; Walker's pasture, Wheelock Prairie, Robertson Co.; Bonita 




1895.] NATIHAI- SCIENX'PiS OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



Creek, Pleasanton, Atascosa Co., Tex. Also 5 miles 8outhei\st of 

 Gibbsland, aud 2 miles southeast of Mt. Lebanon, Bienville Parish, 

 La.; 4 miles west of Enterprise, Miss. ; base ofblutf at Claiborne, Ala. 



Specimens from the last-mentioned locality are somewhat less broad 

 at base, more strunsjly striated spirally, and with slitrhtly more 

 rounded volutions than the typical Texan form. In the collection 

 of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia these Lower 

 Claiborne forms are labelled by Conrad " Me.ialta clniboriiensis." 

 I am not aware that the species has ever before been figured or de- 

 scribed. It is one of the most abundant and characteristic of the 

 Texan Eocene. 



Geolofficn/ horizon. — Ijower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. 



Genua TURRITELLA. 

 Turritella nasuta <iabl>, viir. houstonia nov. var. , I'l. 9. tig. 6. 



This variety differs from typical )ia.iula in being much broader at 

 base, and having its whorls rounded or slightly carinated submedi- 

 ally. It is generally somewhat larger than the typical form, and is 

 closely related to Conrad's Mesu/ia lintea. 



Localities. — Rio Grande, at Webb-Zapata County line; Elm Creek, 

 near Benchley ; Alum Bluff Trinity River, Houston Co.; Dunn 

 Ranch, Rul)ert.son Co. x\lso in South Carolina, near Orangeburg 

 C. H. 



(ieo/oijiraf horizon. — Lower C'laiborne Eocene. 



Ti/jii'. — Texas State Museum. 



Turritella dumblei imv. sp. I'l. 9. tin. 7. 



Spt'i-ifif fh<ini(ft'rlzatioii.-—i^\y.ii and general form as shown by the 

 figure; whorls about 15: the lower two to four .show an obtuse basal 

 carination while above, this feature is not so apparent; surface 

 marked by rai.<ed spiral lines alternating in size, the carinal zones of 

 the lower whorls are markeii by two somewhat stronger lines; lines 

 of growth plainly cutting the s(>iral lines and causing them to ap|>car 

 under a gla-ss like diminutive strings of beads. 



Tiiis Hjjecies reminds one somewhat of 7'. n/abaiiiii'iiKi'^ Wliitt.. liut 

 is most probably nearest allied to T. iiijr< iff rami lata Glibb ((ieol. 

 Surv. Cal.. Pal., vol. 1. iSfM, |). 212, pi. :{2, fig. 27!h. from near 

 Mnrtiiiez, Cal. Wherever the lines of growth are strong over the 

 htiaa] carina thev tend to produre an ^^ iiifrn-graiiu/afn" ap|)earance. 




^2 PR<K'KK1)IN08 OK TIIK ACADK.MY OK [1895. 



Loni/ttirn. — Moiiley's Ferry, Hrazos River. Hiirlesou Co. ; Cedar 

 Creek. Wheelock Leajiue; well at Collcfre Stn.. Brazos Co. ; Cainjv 

 l)ell Creek, Robertson Co. 



Geolixjical horizon. — lx)wer Claiborne Eocene. 



Tijiie. — Texas State Museum. 



Turritella dutexata iiov. sp. IM. it, tin. h. 



S/)erific (• harart e I- i Zillion. — Whorls ( in a complete H|)ecinieuj about 

 lo: ;ill inarke<l by two subcentral carinal lines together with one 

 small one just below and onf just above the suture. 



Resitles the ornamentation shown on the specimen Hgured, there 

 are usually about four spiral strite on each whorl between the upper 

 carinal and subsutural line ; between the two strouir carinal lines 

 there is often a faint stria; likewise one often appears just below the 

 lower carina. When fully striated this species bears a general re- 

 semblance to T. (treniro/d and T. arenicola var. branneri, but may 

 be distinguished at once by the persistency of the bicarinate feature 

 of the whorls to the very a})ex. The apical whorls of T. arenicola 

 and variety are unicarinate somewhat as in T. carinata H. C. Lea 

 ( T. apifa De Greg.). It will be observed that in Meyer's carefully 

 drawn figure of T. cnrinata H. C. I^ea, in the Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., 1<H.S7, p. 54, pi. .S, fig. 1, la, two cariii;e are represented on 

 each whorl, but it is the upper one which predominates on the apical 

 whorls: in dute-vata it is the lower. 



Loca/itles. — Elm Creek, I^ee Co. ; Taylor's well, 5 miles south- 

 east of Franklin, Robertson Co. (specimens in the U. S. Nat. Mus.j; 

 7 miles southeast of Jevvett, Leon Co., (specimens in Aldrich's coll.); 

 also in a small varietal form at Orrell's Crossing, Elm Creek, Lee 

 Co.; near liaptizing Creek, Cherokee Co., Tex. Also in Louisiana 

 at southwest 1, southeast ', Sect. 19, R. 7 W. Tp. 19; Holstein's 

 well, 5 miles .south of Gibbsland, Bienville Parish; mouth of Saline 

 Bayou, Red River; Sect. 29, Tp. 17, R. 5 W. In Mississippi 2 J 

 miles ea.st of Newton ; Wautubbee hill, near Enterprise. In Ala- 

 bama at Claiborne. 



(leolofjif-al horizon. — I^ower and Upper Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Singley's collection. 



Turritella nerineza nov. si). Pl.it, (if;, it. 



•Specific C'harafterizatlon. — Size and general form of a fragment 




1895.] N'ATIRAL SCIENCKS OF PJII 1-AI>EI.FH] A. 83 



(the only known specimen) as indicated by the figure; number of 

 whdrls unknown, ornamented by (1 ) fine even spiral striic, (2) a 

 subsutural row of pustules or crenulos, and (o) a slightly raised or 

 faint ridge at the base of each whorl becoming obsolete in the lower 

 whorls, but, increasing in strength above so a.s to nearly equal in size 

 the subsutural line of crenules. 



Locality. — Black Bluff, Brazos River, extreme northern limit of 

 Milam Co., Milam Bluff of Penrose's Report. 

 ' (ieologif-dl horizon. — Midway Eocene. 

 Tiijie. — Texas State Museum. 



Genus SOLARIUM. 

 Solarium huppertzi nnv. >\). I'l. ii. ti;.'. 10. a. 



Sppi-ifir ritiinirteri-.dtioii. — Size and general form of young speci- 

 mens (no adults have thus far been found) as shown by the figure; 

 whorls H; mouth roughly hexagonal, bounded by the following lines: 

 (l)the upper margin of the whorl, extending from a bicrenulate 

 suture to a peripheral row of crenulations; (2) the exterior lateral 

 margin of the whorl, extending from the row of crenulations just men- 

 tioned to a second or medial row; (8) the exterior sublatcral margin 

 of the whorl, extending from the medial row of crenulations to the 

 basal row; (4) the basal margin of the whorl, extending from the 

 basal row of crenulations to an interior sublateral row; (5j the um- 

 bilical margin; f6) the margin of contact with the penultimate 

 whorl. 



This shell is flat or discoid like the young ()f ujost mend»ers of thi» 

 genus. 



Lorii/iti/. — vSmithville, Bastrop Co. , Tex. 



Geo/of/iraf horizon. — I><>wcr Claiborne Eocene. 



Tji/te. — Texas State Museum. 



Solarium bastropensis nov..s|>. I'l. U, I'ik. 11. a. 



Sj)ecifir rhanirterizntiov. — Size and general form a.s imlicatcd by 

 the figure ; whorl.s 4A ; spire very low, marked only by the suture 

 and a fine line just above it ; body whorl depressed, somewhat cari- 

 nate, marked on the |)eriphery by three rai.sed lines, and near the 

 umbilicus bv radiating line.«s of growth. 



JjoralHtj. — Smithvilie, Bastrop Co., Te.x. 



fieoloijioal horizon. — I/)wer Claiborne Eocene. 



Tifjie. — Texas State Mu.seum. 




^•1 PR(X!KKniNaS OK THK ACADKMV OK [1895. 



Genus AMAUROPSIS. 

 Amauropsis singleyi nov. sp. PI. it, tin. l'~- 



Sjtcrific rhanu'tcrization. — General form and size as indicated by 

 the figure; spire pointed and high; whorls 7; hoily and penultimate 

 whorls shouldered above as in X. rerurva; umbilicus small, partially 

 hidden by the labium ; margin of the aperture sharp, reflected. 



This species might be mistaken for the young of recurva were it 

 not for the fact that the two have differently formed umbilici. In 

 recurva there is a ridge formed by the continuation of the lower 

 margin of the aperture that, after passing below and to the left of 

 the umbilicus, winds up into the same as described by Aldrich. In 

 siiHjIeyi the lower margin of the aperture stands out sharply. If 

 traced upward and inward it will be found to follow the labium 

 about one-third way across the umbilicus and then to wind up into 

 the same. 



Locality. — Cedar Creek, Lee Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Collection of J. A. Singley. 



Genus DILLWYNELLA. 

 Dillwynella? texana nov. .sp. PI. 9, fig. 13. 



Sjiecijic characterization. — Size and general form as indicated by 

 the figure; whorls 4; spiral, smooth, and shining; body whorl nearly 

 smooth but showing a slight tendency to bear furrows or lines radiat- 

 ing from the suture; uml)ilicus small; mouth round. 



The umbilical portion of this shell appears to be more or less 

 whitened or enameled. 



Locality. — Jones' farm, Hurricane Bayou, Houston Co.; from 

 Lee County and Mosley's Ferry, Brazos River, (Aldrich's collec- 

 tion). 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Texas State Museum. Unfortunately broken since figur- 

 ing. 



Genus GAZA. 

 Gaza? aldricMana nov. sp. PI. 9, fig. 14. 



Specific nharaeterization. — Size and general form as indicated by 

 the figure; whorls 4; 1 minute, non- protruding; 2, 8 rather small 

 and tumid, marked by a few radiating lines which extend from the 

 suture downward about two-thirds across the whorls, reminding one 




1895.] NATIKAL SCIENCKS OK PHILADELPHIA. 85 



somewhat of" the upper surface of Solarium bellastriatum ; body 

 whorl rather lartre, rounded, .slightly Hatteued above, with iudistinct 

 radial lines or lines of growth, flattened slightly below, rugose near 

 the umbilicus; umbilicus small, S<jlarium-like, rendered somewhat 

 he.xagonal by the protruding peripheral deutes; mouth round; shell 

 rather thick; general aj)pearance like Dillwyiiel/a naticoidea. 



Locality. — Elm Creek, Lee Co., Tex. 



Geological horizon. — Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Type. — Aldricb's collection. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATES. 



Platk 1. 



Fig. 1. Modioln houstonia nov. sp. 



Fig. 2. Modioli! texana Gabb. 



Fig. 3. Led'i bastrojtensia nov. sp. 



Fig. 4. Leda milamenais uov. sp. 



Fig. 5. Led'i hou.4onia nov. sp. 



Fig. 6. Adraiia aldrichiatia nov. sp. 



Fig. 7. Venericardia trapaquurn nov. sp. 



Fig. 8a Astarte smUhvillens^i.'i nov. sp. (Typical). 



Fig. 9a, b, c. The same, small variety. 



Fig. 10. Crassatella antestriata Gabb. 



Fig. 10a The same, viewed from within. 



Plate 2. 



Fig. 1. Crasxtiiella texniia Heilp. 



Fig. 2. Crassatella texnlta nov. sp. 



Fig. 3. Crassatella trajiaqxiara nov. sp. 



Fig. 3a The same, viewed from within. 



Fig. 4. Sphwrella anlej/roilurtn nov. sp. 



Fig. 5. Meretrix texacoln nov. sp. 



Fig. 5a The same, viewed anteriorly. 



Fig. 51) Smaller variety ot the same species. 



I'l.ATK 3. 

 Fig. 1. Telliwt tallicheti nov. sp. 

 Fig. 2. Siliqua simondni nov. sp. 

 Fig. 3. Ceroniii sinqhiji nov. «p. 




^t> PR()(KKI>IN(JS <>l' I'lIK AfADKMV OK [1895. 



Fig. Ihx Smaller individual of tlie same species. 



Fii^. 4. Peripfoiiiit m/htrdl nov. sp. 



Fig. 5. Cnrhiilu aldrirhi, v:ir. xiiiIlhrl/lniKls nov. var. 



Fig. .la The same, lesser valiie. 



Fijj;. •>. M(irt('si(t (cruiKi nov. sp. 



Fij.j. 7. Rinijivula fntjiiK^mtvn nov. sp. 



Fig. X, Voh'ula .* smifJii'lUeiisii* nov. sp. 



Fig. 9. CyUchiii'lla ati/sojixis nov. sp. 



Fig. 9a Tlie specimen labelled "■Volvnln iniuntissima'^ in the 



col lection of the Academy. 

 Fig. 10. Terebrii (rxtK/i/m nov. sp. 

 Fig. 11. Terebni lioiiKiDiiia nov. sp. 



Plati: 4. 



Terebra hoiixfotiia var. 



Conux smithvilleii.'<i.-^ nov. sp. 



Pleurotoma enstrlcrina nov. sp. 



Pf. (Pleurotomel/a) anacona nov. sp. 



PL (Surcu/a) rjabbl Conrad. 



PI. (Surciila) moorei Gai)l). 

 Fig. 6a A somewhat larger, more cariuated specimen. 

 Fig. Gb A strontrly denticulate specimen. 

 Fig. 7. P/eitrotoma beadata nov. sp. 

 Fig. 8. Pleurotoma vaiif/haiii nov. sp. 

 Fig. 9. Ptexrofouia hv/)jjertzl nov. sp. 

 Fig. 10. PL Intjjpertzl, var. penrosei nov. var. 



Plate 5. 



Pleurotoma leoiico/a nov. sp. 



P/. ( Drill i(t) dumhlei nov. sp. 



PL (DrilUa) di})ta nov. sp. 



PL ( Drillia) tiodocarinnta Gabb. 



PL (Drillia) jirosseri nov. sp. 



PL (Drillia) kellogi Gabb. 



PL (Drillia) fexacona nora. mut. 



yV. (^Drillia) texanoj/sis nov. sp. 

 Fig. 9. Pleurotoma imujiiifica Heilp. 

 Fig. 10. Fl. (MaiKjilia) infa)is Mr. 




1895.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Fig. 11. PI- ( Borsonia) jjlenfa uov. sp. by Aid. A Har. 



Fig. 11a Apex of a very youug uiul perfect specimen. 



Fig. 12. P/. (Eucheilodon) reticulatoides nov. sp. 



Fig. 13. PL ( Tarnnis) fiiiexfi nov. sp. 



Fig. 14. P/. { C/afhurel fa.') fan mr now sp. 



Fig. 15. P/. (Be/a) rebecnr nov. sp. 



87 



Plate G. 



Cavcellaria jianniie.i uov. sp. 



Can. panones, var. /tmiOiviUensi^ nov. var. 



Can. jianonen, var. jnnijiera nov. var. 



Cancellarin penrosei uov. sp. 



CanceUiir'm hn.-<trnjieusl.i nov. sp. 



Cuncellaria uhnula uov. sp. 



Valvar ia gabbiana Aid. MS. 



Voh(f!llfh''t ihilVi uov. sp. 



A smoother variety. 



Cnricella demma, var. tcvana Gabb. 



i'arifpUd siibnjKjnlnta, var. rheroheenxi-' nov. var. 



Tiirrlrnla fexaita nov. sp. 



Levlfu.inii trabeatoides nov. sp. 



Apex of" the same magnitied. 



Latinis siiiiilei/i nov. sp. 



Small varietv of the same. 



Fig 

 Fig 

 Fig 

 Fig 

 Fig 

 Fig 

 Fig 

 Fig 

 Fig 



I'l.ATi; 7. 



1. Strejisidiiiajicii.'< Gabb. 



2. Pusiis liajffrojjcnxiii nov. sp. 



3. Fiisnn <)xti'(irnjn.i uov. sp. 



4. FuxuH mortotii, var. innrt(niii)/>.-<is Gai)l). 



5. Fiifux mortoni, var. rnn-xii'' nov. var. 



6. CluvUithcA reyi'xii.'t uov. »p. 



7. Chivillthen humrrit^oiM, var. O'xiutUK nov. var. 

 X. ClnviUtUen kennedijanni* uov. sp. 



9. ('Iin/mdiitnim juirbnizniin nov. sp. 




^^ FROC'KKMINdS OK TIIK ACAKKMY (»K [1895. 



Pl.ATK H. 



Fig. 1 . Clavilithrs {Papillina) dnmusim, var. trajKujiKinis mdv. var. 



Fig. 2. A.-<(t/rl,H bdstropensis nov. sp. 



Fig. ']. Psriidiilitui ostranifm nov. sp. 



Fig. oa The same, front view. 



Fig. 4. Ps. ostrarupis, var. pauper nov. var. 



Fig. 5. Mitrex fusates nov. sp. 



Fig. 6. M. (^Oilontoj)olys) compsorhyt if G&hh. 



Fig. 7. Tenniscala trapaquara nov. sp. 



Fig. 8, T. trapaquani, var. eiifjona nov. var. 



Fig. 9. Pijramidella bastropensls nov. sp. 



Fig. 10. Syniola traj>aquara nov. sp. 



Fig. 11. Pyrula {Fimoficuld) texana nov. sp. 



Fig. 12. Cyprcea kennedyi nov. sp. 



Plate 9. 



Fig. 1. Rimella texana nov. sp. 



Fig. 2. R. texana, var. plana nov. var. 



Fig. 3. Cerithinm tvehbi nov. sp. 



Fig. 4. Cerithinm penro^ei nov. sp. 



Fig. 5. Mesalia claibornensis Con. 



Fig. 6. Tnrritelki nasuta, var. honstonia nov. var. 



Fig. 6a r. 7iasuta, typical. 



Fig. 7. Turritella dumblei nov. sp. 



Fig. 8. Turritella dutexata nov. sp. 



Fig. 9. Turritella nerinexa nov. sp. 



Fig. 10. Solarium hicppertzi nov. sp. * 



Fig. 10a The same, from beneath. 



Fig. 11. Solarium bastropensis nov. sp. 



Fig. 11a The same, from above. 



Fig. 12. Amauropsis singleyi nov. sp. 



Fig. 13. Dillwynella? texana nov. sp. 



Fig. 14. Gazaf aldrichiana nov. sp. 




1895.] NATIHAL SCIENCKS OK PHILADELPHIA. 89 



THE EOCENE TERTIARY OF TEXAS EAST OF THE BRAZOS RIVER. 

 MY WILLIAM KKNNEDY. 



Since the piil)licatioii of Dr. Hilgurd's report on the Geoloiry of 

 Mississippi prohal)ly no other piihlicatiou occupies so prominent a 

 place among the gt'oh)gical literature of the tertiary deposits of the 

 Gulf coastal slope as the "Tertiary and Cretaceous Strata of the 

 Tuscaloo-sa, Tombighee, and Alabama Rivers," by Smith and John- 

 son." The Tertiary section there shown has been recognized not 

 only as the section of the Ahil)ania beds but has also i)eeu con- 

 sidere<l as typical of the whole tertiary areas along the Gulf coast. 

 Dall says that the Gulf section has been practically determined 

 and its fauna largely recorde<l in this section, but he considers that 

 important information and a rirb fauna may be obtained from 

 the Texas section,^ and lately, Harris, in speaking of the same Bul- 

 letin, .<ays: "It was not until 1MS6 that the typical section of Ameri- 

 can marine Eocene, namely, that of Alabama was published.'"' 



At that time (1^88) very little was known regarding the Texas 

 Tertiary. Desultory work, it is true, had been done by several 

 observers, and some fossils figured and described by Gabb and others, 

 l)ut no continuous or connected work had been attempted, or, if so, 

 the results were inaccessible and unknown. It was generally con- 

 ceded, however, that it might be safely assumed from the geological 

 coidbrmation of the neighboring States that all or nearly all of the 

 divisions ranging from the Etj-Lignitic to the Ciiand Gulf, inclusive, 

 were represented, and that a considerable part belonged to the 

 I»wer Eocene as seen at ('laibornc, .Maltania. and in Clark County, 

 west of Claiborne.* 



In 1X81) the first .systematic work in those de|)08it8 was iwgun by 

 I'rot". I{. A. F. Penrose, Jr. During that year he followed three of the 



' Hiillcfin V^ r. S. (;. S.. hv l»r. i; a. .smith iiikI I.awreiicf <". .loliM.son. 

 ' Tcntli Aiiiniiil Report f." S. (i. S.. IHHH-.sit, j.. IC.s. 

 ' Am. .loiirii. of S<i.. Vol. .\LVII. .\pril. 181M. p. :iOJ. 

 ♦ Hiilprin, Cont. to Tert. Ocol. uf U. 8.. 1884, pp. 37, .18. 



7 




^^^ FKt>CKKI)INOS OK lin: ACADK.M Y (»l' [1895. 



jj^reiit rivers: Hrazos, Colorado, uiul Kio Graiidi'. llnwinji; across the 

 Tertiary areas of the State, and the residts of his examination have 

 heen published in the First Ainuiul Report of the present (Jeologi- 

 cal iSiirvey. ' Since that time the work of examining these beds has 

 l>een carried on continuously throughout the eastern portion of the 

 State almost altogether by myself, and the detailed results of these 

 examinations, chieHy from a 8tratigraj)hic standpoint, have been 

 published from time to time in the various Annual Reports of the 

 Survey/ 



During the'course of these examinations Prof. Penrose's river sec- 

 tion along the l^razos was re-examined, the section seen along the 

 Trinity River, and another extended section between the Trinity and 

 Sabine made, and extensive areas throughout other portions of East 

 Texas, were examined in detail.' 



While a great portion of the stratigraphy had thus been worked 

 out it has only been within the last year that anv of the immense 

 collections of fossils obtained during the course of the work have 

 been critically examined and descrilied.'* 



While the prediction of Dall as to the richness of the fauna of the 

 Texas section has been fully verified, various other conditions have 

 come to light which, while they largely verify the Alabama section, 

 at the same time add strength to the all-important fact that 

 the geological conformation of neighboring States cannot always be 

 relied upon as a guide to the geology of any portion of the southern 

 or Gulf Tertiary. 



A comparison of the two sections — Alabama and Texas — shows 

 several material ditferences between which, prior to the work of 

 the present Geological Survey, were never suspected to exist. The 

 three sections of the Eocene, viz. : Alabama, Mr. Harris' section, 

 and the Texas section as made by the State Survey, are here 

 given for comparison. 



* Preliminary Report on the Geol. of the Gulf Tertiary of Texas, by R. A. F. 

 Penrose, .Jr., First Annual Report (rcol. Survey of Texas, pp. t't-M. 



* Sccoiul, Tliinl and Fourtli Annual Reports Geol. Survey of Texas. 



' Third Annual Ucport (u;ol. Survey of Texas, pp. 43-124 ; Fourth Annual Re- 

 port Geol. Survey of Texas, pp. 4.V.")3 and tJ7-76. 

 ^ For this work see Monograph of Texas Tertiary Fossils, by Gilbert D. Harris. 




1895.] 



XAXrRAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



91 



Alabama section :^ — 



Feet. 

 'Upper — f Coral Limestone, Vicksburg ? . .150 



§ White Limestone -] Vicksburg (Orbitoidalj 140 



I ( Jackson 60 



W xi-iu (Claiborne 140-145 



Middle •, Tj 1 » .,nn 



>. •{ ( Buhrstone 800 



C Hatehetigbee 175 



Woods BliiH" . «0-85 



I Bells Landing 140 



[ Lower — Lignitic -( Nanafalia 200 



Mathews Landinti, Naheola. . 130-150 



Black Bluff . 100 



1^ Miilway 25 



In the American Journal of Science Mr. Harris presents a gen- 

 eral section of the Eocene series of the Southern States. This is 

 ba«ied to a considerable extent on the Alabama !-ectiou, but modified 

 to include and harmoni/e with his own observations.'" This section 



i3 



stages. Sub stages. 



( (Joral Limestone 



Vicksburg ■< Vicksbur? Ik'ds 



(Red Blulf lie<ls 



( Moody's Branch Beds 



I Mark's Mills Bed Beds 



( White Blutf Marls (Mk) 



I Claiborne sand 



I (Jstrea selhiformis Beds 



y,, •, < Lisbon lieds 



Claiborne J d u . 



( Buhrstone 



Hatehetigbee Beds 



Wood's Bluff Beds 



Jackson 



Claiborne 



Ljwer 



Lignitic 



I 



Bell's Landing 



r Bell's Landing Heds 

 - Gregg's Landing Beds 

 ( Nanafalia Beds 



C Mathew's Landing Mail 

 Midway ^ Black Bluff Clays 

 (^ ( Midway Clay and Limestone 



The work of the Texas survey shows the Eocene Tertiary of that 

 p<jrtion of the State lying east of the Hrazos River to have a sec- 

 tion of: — 



» Htilktin t3. U. S. O. S., by E. A. Smith and L. C. Jolmson, i.. H 

 •" Harris. .\in. .1. of .Sc.. Vol. XI.VH. April. \m\. j.. 3(M. 




c^ 



I>o\ver Chiiborne 

 Liguitio 



92 PROCKEDINOS OK THE ACADEMY OK [1895. 



Stantes. Sub-stages. 'riiirkncss. 



Foot. 



Frio Clays IGO 



Fjivette Sands 400 



Yegua Clays 1,000 



Marine Beds 050 



\ (^leen Citv Beds GO-70 



( Liiriiitic lU'ds 1,000 



>,. , ( Basal or Will.s Boint 



.Midway - . ,, ,,^.. 



•' ( ( lays zbO 



The al)ove section includes the whole of the Eocene deposits 

 recognized in east Texas. As noted by Dr. Loughridge" the white- 

 limestones of the Claiborne are absent and neither the Vicksburg 

 nor Jackson stages have been recognized, either paleontologically or 

 stratigraphically, although both of these are reported as occurring 

 a few miles to the eastward in Ijouisiana. The celebrated Claiborne 

 sands are also absent. 



No strata that might lithologically ])e referred to the Oftrea xel- 

 Iczfonnix beds have been recognized. O. sellxEfonnis var. divari- 

 cata Lea, occurs in considerable numbers throughout the upper 

 division of the Marine beds, and although increasing in number as 

 this fossil ascends the scale, it can nowhere be said to be more char- 

 acteristic of any of the beds than many of the other species found 

 in as.sociation with it. This form of (Mrea has a vertical range of 

 a little over two hundred feet. 



It may also be said that no deposits corresponding to the Buhr- 

 stone of the Alabama section have been recognized anywhere 

 throughout East Texas. The only deposits that might possibly be 

 referred to this stage are the Queen City beds of red and white 

 sands and clays, and even these, although filling the position occu- 

 pied by the Buhrstoue, do not correspond to any member of that stage 

 lithologically, and besides, they are altogether unfo.ssiliferous. 



The lignitic formation, as recognized in the Texas sections, contains 

 no such divisions as those characterizing the Alabama lignitic. 

 From its base to contact with the overlying marine beds the Texas 

 lignitic is made up entirely of sands, clays and lignites, and with 

 the exception of a few l)roken plant remains the extended investiga- 

 tions of the Geological Survey have disclo.sed neither fossils nor green 

 sands. It may be said to be altogether unfossiliferous. 



" Cotton Production of .Southern States, Tenth Census, Vol. V, Part II. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 93 



Into the general section, however, three divisons of the Lisbon 

 stage have to be introduced, all of which, so far as at present known, 

 are peculiar to Texas. There are (a) Frio Clays, (b) Fayette 

 wSands, and (c) Yegua Clays. These overlie the marine beds in the 

 reverse of the order here given and together aggregate a thickness of 

 nearly 1,500 feet in East Texas, while farther west this may be con- 

 siderably exceeded. 



Frio Clays. 



These clays form the uppermost division of the Eocene Tertiary 

 as shown in the Texas section. They comprise a series of dark-blue, 

 red, green, brown, and yellow clays when wet. They weather to pale 

 blue, light red, watery green, gray, and pale yellow upon exixjsure 

 and drying. In many places they carry numerous calcareous nodules, 

 hard when freshly exposed, but in contact with the air theV'Soon become 

 Soft and |)owdery, coating the exposures of the banks and outcrops 

 with a fine, limy powder, and the clays themselves may be regarded 

 a.« more or less gypseous throughout. In .structure these deposits are 

 sometimes laminated or partially stratified, but throughout their greater 

 extent are massive and heavy bedded. The East Texas deposits ap- 

 pear to be uufossiliferous, but a considerable extinct fauna is reported 

 from the beds lying in the central and western portions of the State. 



Although reported as forming extensive deposits and covering a 

 wide area throughout the region west of the Brazos''^ these clays thin 

 out and are so covered by the overlapping Neocene de|)osits to the 

 east of that river that their existence has only been not^d at a few 

 places. East of the Brazos these clays were first observed a short 

 distance east of the town of Corrigan, in l*oIk County, where the 

 section shows them to be dark-bluegyiweous clays'^ and to lie between 

 two befls of .sandstone. Thirteen miles farther east, near Fleming,'* 

 an extensive outcrop of the same clays api>ears. Here, however, they 

 present their calcareous features and appear to i)e devoid of selenite 

 and are about IHO feet in thickness. Small outcrops appear at in- 

 tervals along the Trinity and Sabine Railway and at Summit, in 

 Tyler (Vninty, a section of a cutting on the Southern Pacific Railway 

 shows the Frio clays to l>e about eighty feet in tliickne.>«s and tu be 



'- Third Annual Report Cio<>\. Survey of Toxa.s, p. 11«. 



'^ riiinl Aiiimiil K(iH)rt <;<-.il. Survc-y of Texas, pp. 62-6.'!, ami 117-llS. 



'♦ Mumble, Journal of <ieolotf>'. Sopt., IWM, p. 'iM. 




94 PROCKKinNGS OK TllK ACADKMY OK [1895. 



overlaid directly l»y the browu and gray sauds of the latest Tertiary. 

 The followiiiir section combined from two cuttings at Summit Station 

 shows the relations of the Frio clays to the overlying and underly- 

 ing deposits. '* 



gj 1. Gray sand with silicious pebbles 1 H feet. 



"S 2. Conglomerate of silicious pebbles connected by a 

 ,B ferruginous matrix adhering to brown ferrugi- 



— nous sandstone, found in boulder form and in 



c connection with an irregularly depo.sited stratum 



"2 of ferruginous material changing gradually to- 



CK ward the north end of the cutting to a brown 



§c or pale red crossbedded sand iuterlamiuatcd in 



« places with lenticular shaped deposits of brown- 



'^ ish-blue or pink clay 10 to 18 feet. 



3. Mottled-blue and browu sand clay 20 " 



X 4. Pale watery- green sandy clay 20 " 



S 5. Brown sandv clay 25 " 



^ 6. Pale blue sand and clay 15 " 



'P 7. Dark blue clay with limy concretions and gypsum 



crystals in places 20 " 



OB 8. Drab sandy clay becoming gradually the same as 



1 No. 8 30 " 



^ 9. Gray sandstones, coarse grained on top but chang- 



s ing to a fine grained blue stone at base . . . 120 " 



fe 



Nos. 3 to 7 belong to the Frio clays. 



Many deposits of these clays occur in Jasper and Newton Counties 

 and extend almost to the Louisiana line. 



West of Corrigan, deposits of the same character, occupying a 

 similar position and of the same age, occur in the tieighborhood of 

 Longstreet, Montgomery County, and lately in an examination of 

 the section at Riverside quarries, on the Trinity, Mr. Dumble found 

 the same clays between two sets of sandstone and occupying the 

 same p<«ition as the deposit at Corrigan. 



While these deposits are only visible at intervals, often many 

 miles apart, their generally imiform appearance, constitution and 

 relatively coinciding positions between the overlying sands and cal- 

 ls Third Annual Report Geol. Survey of Texas, p. 120. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 95 



careous clayey sauds of the Neocene beds and the underlying 

 Fayette sands appear to justify the inference that they form a con- 

 tinuous belt of deposits, somewhat irregular in width and thickness, 

 from west to east and have a general tendency to decrease in areal 

 extent and thickness as we go east. 



Fayktte Sands. 



The gray sandstones as described by Buckley and Loughridge 

 admit of a threefold division and possibly a fourth may be added 

 u|)»jn farther examination and investigation, each being represented 

 by beds differing widely from each other, both in lithological struc- 

 ture and faunal character. The uppermost divi.sion comprises a series 

 of highly calcareous sauds, sandstones and clays containing many 

 water-worn cretaceous shells throughout the sandy portions, l)ut carry- 

 ing no indigenous invertebrate fauna."' Fossil bones have occasion- 

 ally been refX)rted from these beds and some have been described by 

 I^'idy'' from Washington County and farther west. This division, 

 however, belongs to the Neocene Tertiary. The middle j)ortion, or 

 Frio clays, have already been described, and the Fayette sands proper 

 form the basal portion and prol>ably include the hanl silicious sand- 

 stones mentioned by Buckley. 



The prevailing characteristics of these Fayette sands, as here 

 restricteil, are gray sandstones, white and gray clays, and gray sands. 

 The sandstones are irregularly deposited and lie in beds I'rom a few 

 inches to ten, fifteen or twenty feet in thickness. In Jasjier 

 County, on the eastern side of the State, these sandstones range 

 from four to ten feet in lliickiH-s ;iiid at Kockland, in Tyler County, 

 the section shows:'" 



1. Gray sand 4 fi'ct. 



2. Coarse graineil, gray sandstone ."> •' 



•i. Hard blue sandstone 15 



AIoiil: .^I(•.MallUs' Creek, near Stryker, in I'olk C<»unty, these 

 sandstones forni an eacarpiiu'iit for nearly a mile in length and pre- 

 sent a solid face of over ten feet, ami at Hitchcock's ipiarry, aliout a 



'* Fourth Annual Report Gool. Survey of Te.xa.H, lHlt:$, pp. )>-14 us NiivaHoUi 

 Beds. 



'" U. S. (i. Surrey of the TcrritoripH, Vol.1. Kxtinct Vcrtel>nitu, l>y .1. I.cicly, 

 p. i4n et .t<c|. 



'■^ ThinI .\nnual Report litol. .Survey of Texa.H. ISHl. p. I2(i. 




•^<> IMUKKKOINOS OK TIIK ACAKKMV OK [1895. 



mile north of Corrifrsin, the sandstones exposed (^how a thickness of 

 over .-sixteen feet. C'oniinp: westward the thickness l)e<'nnies less, as 

 near lAJVelady. in Houston County, the heddinu is from ten inches to 

 two feet. In Grime County the thickness has still farther 

 diminished to from six to eighteen inches. Crossing; the Navasota 

 River the heddinj; begins to thicken to the westward, as a section 

 near Wellborn Station shows them to have a thickness of two to six 

 feet. 



In texture these sandstones vary from a soft, indurated sand of 

 scarcely sufficient cohesion to be classed as sandstone to a hard, close 

 grained, glassy quartzite. The ditierent conditions of texture are, 

 however, so intermixed that it would be difficult to specify any dis- 

 tinct area as being prevailingly one or the other. In Jasper County 

 the quartzite conditions appear to prevail in some sections, while at 

 Rockland the rock is coarse grained and hard, but shows no glassy 

 conditions. Again on the Biggam White Headright in the northern 

 portion of Grime County the rocks change from a soft gray color, 

 to a hard gray and brownish-gray sandstone with occasional blocks 

 showing the characteristic texture of quartzite.'" 



The white and gray clays and gray sands associated with these 

 sandstones occur interbedded and interstratiiied with the sandstone 

 beds and vary in thickness from a few inches to several feet, some of 

 the sand-beds reaching a thickness of twenty- five feet, while the clays 

 rarely exceed six feet. Many of the sands show cross-bedding, some 

 of the beds having a wavy or broken stratification showing the 

 j^eculiar structure sometimes found along sandy coasts subject to wind 

 and tide action and it is in these sands the beautifully opalized wood 

 so characteristic of the Fayette beds is found in great abundance. 



While the sands and clays have, with the exception of the opalized 

 wood, yielded no fo.ssils, the hard sandstones have given us a fauna 

 scanty, it is true, but sufficient to connect the Fayette beds with 

 the Eocene Tertiary. 



In both Polk and Grime Counties plant remains have been found 

 in the form of well preserved leaves. . These, however, have not 

 been described. Somewhat lower in the scale, in Polk and Brazos 

 Counties, the remains of animal life occur. Four miles north of 



'9 Fourth Annual Report Geol. Survey of Texas, 1892, p. 29. 




1895.] NATLRAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 97 



Corrigan the section of a cutting on the Houston, East and West 

 Texas Railway shows :^ 



1. Gray sand 3 feet. 



2. Light gray sandstone containing casts of Corbula 



alabameiisis Lea, Dentnlinm minutidriatum 

 Gabb, var. dmnhli, new var., Venericardia 

 ])hinlcost<i Lam., C'jtherea toritadonis Harris, 

 and Cahjptrophonis velatus Con.'" . . . . lA to 2 '' 



3. Durated gray sand or soft sandstone 4 " 



The Brazos County section containing fossils occur.> at Dr. 

 Williams' quarry al)out three miles east of Wellborn Station, on the 

 Houston and Texa.s Central Railway. This section shows:" 



1. Gray sands 2 to 8 feet. 



2. Tliinly laminated, light gray sandy clays ... 2 to 8 " 



3. Broken sandstone with fossil casta 2 " 



4. Regular and even bedded sandstone (i " 



Nos. 3 and 4 of this section contain Bidhnella kellof/ii; Pleuro- 

 tomu sp. ; Cnvcelltria penro^'n n. sp., Harris; Yoldin cuilbornensis 

 Conrad; Madnt i^p.; Corbula nhihamoisis Lea; Siliqtia niiiioiidii n. 

 sp., Harris; Venericardia plonlrost'i Lam.; Cifthereu bustropennis 

 Harris, and Turritella sp.-' 



West of the Brazos River invertebrate fossils have lieen found in 

 tliese beds, and from this it may be inferred that the same conditions 

 hold good across the State. 



The area occupie<l by the Fayette beds forms a narrow belt with 

 extremely irregular ami as yet badly defined boundaries extending 

 from the l)ottom hinds along the west side of the Sabine, westward 

 to and beyond the Brazos, and while the greatest width nl" this belt 

 may exceed fifteen miles, yet throughout its greater extent the 

 average width is not over six to eight miU*. Their southern mar- 

 gins dip beneath the overlying Frio clays and their northern 

 lM)rders rest upon the gyps(M)iis lignite-l)earing clays an<l sands of the 

 Yegua stage. The eountry underlaid by these san<lstones ami sands, 

 particularly throughout the eastern portion <pf the territory in .la.^per. 



»" Thinl .\iiniial H<port fleol. Survey of Textus. 1891. p. 115. 

 " Fourth Annual KVport fifol Survey of Ti'xa.s, ISJK, p. 40. 

 " Harris M.S., Mcin<iKni]>)i nf Trxji-M Trrtiary FoRsils. 

 *' Harris M..S. , Monoi.'ni|ih oi Ti-x.'i.h Tirtiary fossils. 




5*8 PKoi'KKDiNGS OK riii; .\(Ar>i;.Mv ok [1895. 



Tvlor and I'olk Counties, is broken and hilly and jrenerally rough, 

 nmnv of the hills rising; in the form of steep side knohs to elevations 

 more than loO feet above the level of the river bottoms. The Neches 

 Kiver flows alon<; the northern bordiT of these sandstones for nearly 

 twenty miles before breakinj; throujrli them near Rockland, and 

 iilouix the whole of this distance the Fayette sands rise almost pre- 

 cipitously from near the river bank to altitudes varyin<r from 120 to 

 275 feet aliove the river. 



The dip of these beds is j^entle, as a whole, l)ut in many places 

 taultin^: and sliding has obscured the true dip to such an extent that 

 it is difficult to tell its exact rate. Extensive erosion also appears 

 to have taken place throughout the whole area and long narrow pro- 

 jections of the overlying Neocene beds appear in many of the 

 valleys. Along the eastern side of Billum's Creek, about two miles 

 west of Colmesnil, a ridge of brown sand and quartz gravel and 

 coarse pebbles, fifteen feet thick extends in a northeastern direction 

 for several miles. 



The Fayette sands of Eastern Texas tie up both stratigraphically 

 and lithologically in the northern portion of Washington County, on 

 the western side of the Brazos with those recently described ;is 

 occurring from that point westward across the State by Mr. Dund)le,^^ 

 and may be considered but an eastern extension of the same. 



There can scarcely be any doubt but that these beds, with the Frio 

 clays and overlying Neocene ( "Navasota Beds" of the Fourth Annual 

 Report and Dumble's ' 'Oakville Beds"''^) formed what was under- 

 stood by Hilgard, Hopkins, Loughridge and others to be the western, 

 or Texas, extension of the Grand Gulf beds and considered of 

 Miocene age. Whether the Neocene division as seen in the Navasota 

 beds of the east or the Oakville beds of the west may be correlated with 

 the Grand Gulf beds or not, future investigation must decide, but 

 manifestly with the evidence at present before us no such correlation 

 can be made as far as the Frio clays and Fayette sands are concerned. 

 There can be no doubt as to their Eocene age, and moreover, a great 

 hiatus occurs between the lowest Neocene beds and the highest Eocene 

 deposits represented in the section as the whole of the Vicksburg and 



" Fourth Annual IJeport (ieol. Survey of Texas, 1802. pp. ii-15. 

 ^^ Journal of 'Jeolojiy for Sept.. 1804, pp. 557-.558. 




1895.] XATL'KAL SCIENCES OF PHII-APKLPHIA. 99 



Jackson, and a considerable ix)rtion of the Claiborne stages are ab- 

 sent throughout the whole of this part of Texas. 



Yegua Clavs. 



Immediately underlying the Fayette sands conies an extensive series 

 of clays and lignites known to the Texas geologists as the Yegua 

 clays. In the First Annual Report of the Survey these clays were 

 considered as forming a portion of the Fayette beds of Prof Penrose 

 and were by him placed at the base of that division "'^ and belonging 

 to the same Grand Gulf series as the overlying gray sandstones of the 

 Fayette sands as now known. The discovery of Eocene fossils in 

 the overlying sandstones as well as in the clays themselves naturally 

 relegated thewholetoan olderstageof dej)ositi(jn than that to which the 

 Grand Gulf wassupposed to lielong. The wide lithological variation be- 

 tween the sandstones and thinly stratified and laminated lignitic sands 

 and clays led to the separation of the two into independent stages 

 more in keeping with their structure and evidently widely separated 

 manner of formation and deposition and the designation "Yegua 

 Clays" has been applied to them from their development on the river 

 of that name. 



These beds comprise a series of dark blue, brown and gray clays 

 and blue-brown and gray sands and sandy clays. Extensive de- 

 p<jsits of lignites are also found throughout the areas occupied by 

 them. The clays are laminated, thiidy stratified and massive and 

 characterized by the great quantitiei- of gypsum either in the form 

 of selenite cry.stals or as irregular masses in a crystalline form dis- 

 tributed throughout the various lieds. In the eastern portion of the 

 area the laminated gypseous clays are more prevalent than farther 

 west. In Angelina County these beds are thinly stratified blue clays 

 containing small clusters of minute crystals of gy|»sum and occa.«ional 

 streaks or pieces of lignite which at their contact with the overlying 

 Fayette santls on the Xeches River have a thickness >'*" <>y>'v thirty- 

 five feet. The section at Clark's Crossing shows: ''' 



2'J. (irav sandstone stained l)ruwti foiiiiiiiL: l>ase oi" 



Fayette sands .'{ tcct. 



23. Thinly stratified or laminateil blue cImv with jvp- 

 sum ill (Tystals, to river level 



•'* First .\nnuftl K<port <i«'ol. Survey of Tcxn.-*, Ihmji, ],]>. IT-.")! 

 " Tliinl Ainiii;il ICpiiri (ii-ol. Survey of T<>\:is. IMtl. p. tl-J. 




100 PROCKKDINGS OF TIIK ACAPKMY OK [1895. 



The snine olmracteristics prevail in Houston County where the 

 hjise comprises a series of blue and brown laminated gypsum- bearing 

 beds showing a section of: ■"* 



1. Ferruginous gravel talus from Cook's Mountain. 4 feet. 



2. Thinly laminated brown clays 4 " 



3. Thinly laminated dark blue clays with inter- 



laminie of brown sand and crystals of selenite . 6 " 



4. Fossiliferous brown sand, containing an extensive 



fauna, including, among others, Anoinia ephip- 

 pioides Gabb; Voliifllitlirs petrosa (burad; 

 Venencardia planicosta Lam.; Calyptrophorus 

 vclatus Conrad, '^ and forming an intermediate 

 bed of the marine stage 10 to 15 " 



Towards the western side of tlie same county these clays give place 

 to massive brown sands and clays containing broken plant remains 

 and sheet-like formations of crystalline gypsum. Still farther west, 

 in Grime and Brazos Counties, gray sand forms tlie prevailing 

 characteristics. 



While towards the eastern end of the area it may be broadly stated 

 that the clays arc gypseous throughout and, as in the northern edge 

 of Polk County, the overlying Fayette sands rest upon heavy beds of 

 blue gypseous clays. The same conditions do not hold good along the 

 contact between these divi.sions in the western portion. In Houston 

 County, while the gypsum is pretty generally distributed throughout 

 the whole of the series, the heavier deposits of that material occur 

 towards the ba.«e; and in Brazos County the gypsum- bearing beds 

 appear only at, or close to, the base of the division and is there over- 

 laid by a series of dark blue (;lays containing broken plant remains, 

 gray sands and sandy clays and the Fayette sands rest upon laminated 

 or thinly stratified banded dark brown and yellow clays showing 

 everywhere a heavy sulphur efflorescence. 



The sands belonging to this series of de})Osits are blue, brown and 

 gray in color and lie in beds from a few inches to over fifty feet in 

 thickness. The gray sands form the prevailing type and occur over 

 the whole area, but are better developed in Houston, Grime and 



M Ibid., p. 17. 



■'* Harris, M.S., Monograph of Texas Tertiary Fossils. 




1895.] NATfKAL SCIENCES OF WilLADELPHIA. 101 



Brazos Counties than farther east. These are sometimes laminated 

 and crossbedded but the greater portion is structureless. They are 

 often saline, heavy incrustations of salt occupying the beds of 

 dry pools and areof frecjuent occurrence tlurini: the summer months. 

 In places they contain quantities of silicified wood of a dull, lustre- 

 less appearance, showing a strong contrast with the beautifully 

 upalized woods of the overlying Fayette sands. 



The lignite deposits of this division although well developed at 

 many points are not so extensive, or nearly so regular, as those of the 

 lignitic stage of the earlier P^ocene. Most of the deposits range from 

 two to four feet, although from six to ten feet are by no means rare. 



Borings through these clays show them to have an aggregate 

 thickness of nearly 1,000 feet. A well at Lamb's Springs, in 

 Grime County, 999 feet deep passed through a series of clays, sands 

 and lignites the whole depth, and another boring at the Agricultural 

 and Mechanical College, five miles south of Bryan, in Brazos Countv, 

 reached the 900 foot mark before the drill entered the underlving 

 marine beds. 



On the Brazos River the contact between the overlying Fayette 

 sands and these clays is seen on the south side of the James Hope 

 Survey in a section showing: 



1. Gray sand and gravel 1 foot. 



^; 2. Gray sand containing great quantities of silicified 



r wood. The wood is usually in large pieces — 



■/' four to six feet in length, and bleached white, o feet. 



^ -i. Gray indurated sand with ledges of soft sandstone. 10 



>. 4. Gray sandstone jointed and thinly bedded, form- 



— ing base of Fayette sands S " 



"). Dark brown lignitic day, showing yellow bands 

 from 1 to i inch iti thickness and coate<l with 

 an efflorescence of sulphur, to water .... L'O 



— 7- 



Ko. 5 corresponds to the up|)er brown day of I'rof. renrose's 

 section of sulphur bluff in this neighborhood and a contimiation of 

 the section will give: ^ 



0. Lignite 1 tnci. 



7. (Jrav sand • 1 '• 



*» First .\nnual Report fifol. Survey of Texas. 1««0. ]>. .>( 




10"J I'Kot 1:1:1 )IN<iS OK IIIK ACAIiK.M V OK [1895. 



8. Lisriiite ^ foot. 



9. Iiiterliedded gray sand and chocolate and greenish 



chiy. turned white in pUices on the surface . . 20 feet. 

 At Jones* bridge, ahoiit a niik' further up the river, the same 

 greenish clays are found in a section showing: 



1. Yellowish grav sand '-VI feet. 



2. Bluish-green, sandy clay containing fragments of 



lignite and breaking into ovoid blocks .... 4(1 

 and still farther up the river numerous shoals are formed of the same 

 bluish-green clay. The section at this place is much ol)scure(l by 

 river deposits of a much later age.^' Here we find: 



1. Brown river loam of sand and fine gravel ... 18 feet. 



2. Black sandy loam and clay loam mixed with 



brown sand and containing gravel and a few 



drift pebbles 2 " 



3. Pale blue clay 8 " 



4. Brown sand 1 foot. 



5. Coarse gravel containing water-worn, cretaceous 



shells 2 feet. 



6. Soft conglomeratic sandstone 2 to 4 " 



7. Bluish-greeu lignitic clay, breaking into blocks 



and containing broken plant remains, extending 

 across the river and forming shoals 6 " 



Nos. 4, 5 and (> of this section do not belong to these Yegua 

 clays but form a later deposit filling a portion of the old river 

 channel and are again seen near the mouth of the Little Brazos 

 River, at which place they are found above the pale blue clay, No. 3 

 of this section. 



No. 5 of the Hope section forms the uppermost bed of the Yegua 

 clays in this part of the State but, as will be seen by the .section 

 already given, these clays do not occur in Polk County nor is there 

 any trace of them along the contact in Houston or Trinity Counties 

 where the uppermost beds are altogether gray sands and pinkish-gray 

 clays, the latter carrying broken plant remains. 



The basal portion of these clays, wherever seen, carry gypsun). In 

 the eastern portion of the area this appears to be disseminated pretty 

 generally through the whole .serie.s, although the crystals are notably 



■" Fourth Annual Keport Geol. Survey of Te.xa.s, 1892, p. 48. 




1895.] NATIKAI- SCIENCES OK l'JIlLAl>EI>Pil lA. lOo 



smaller in the upper than the lower beds. Westward from tlie 

 Neches the gypsum crystals are, however, almost exclusively confiucd 

 to the fifty or sixty feet at the base. 



The base of these clays may be seen iu a bluff ou the Brazos 

 River about 500 yards south of the mouth of the Little Brazos, with 

 the fallowing section : '■' 



1. Black soil 2 feet 



2. Brown loam with limy concretions . . .25 feet 



8. Fine brownish-yellow sand with occasional 



streaks or {wckets of gravel 15 feet 



4. Gravel, with unknown cretaceous shells . 2 to 4 feet 



Vegua clays 5. Pale blue clay unfossiliferous 5 feet 



I). Dark green sand showing fossils in lower 



portion 2 to 5 feet 



7. Dark colored laminated sandy clay containing 



Terehra hoiistoiiia Harris; Levifusus trnhfatoiih-ii 



Harris n. sp. ; Pseudoliva vetitstu var. : IWndo- 



II va I'etusta var. pica; P. vetusta, var. rlan.<a; Tri- 



^ f/onarca corbuloides, Con. ; Pleurofoma ( Plenroto- 



:C meUa) quasitei*, Harris; Xiicuhi magyiifira . Con.; 



^ Leda opuleiifd, Con. ; Laf'inin iiioorei, Gabb. ; 



'^ Corbiild nhibamenfiis, Ijea ; Veven'cardio phtiii- 



^ conta. Lam ; Pliox texana, Gabb., var. ; Xatica 



nrnfit, GabI). ; Xatica semilmiatu, var. jaiitlnni>p)> 



new var. ; Sigaretiis incnnittaiix. Aid. ; Vnldia 



aldrirliiaiin^^ 4 feet 



^. Ferruginous sandstones >> inches 



9. .Same as No. 7. 



In this section the gypseous clays are not seen nor do they appear 

 anywhere in the river banks. This, however, may bo expected as 

 their position there is obscured by broad, deep deposits of river 

 alluvium which cover wide areas and form the imttom lands of the 

 Brazos. Ejist of the Little Brazos these clays are found occupying: 

 their proper position at several places. A section seen on the line 

 of the Houston and Texas Central Railway mar Kim ('reek, on tlie 

 south side of Robertson Cuunty, shows :** 



■*- Fiiiirtli Annual lii-pnrt i n-ul. Survey i)f 'IVxius, lHir_>, p. 



'^ Hnrris M. S,, Miiiiiii;ni|ih of 'Pfxas Tertiary Fos.Hil.s. 



" Koiirth Aniiii.il IJ(|M>rt < nol. Survey of Ti-x.is. Inirj, p. .V» 




104 FROCKKDINGS OK rilK AC'ADKMY <>K [1894. 



1. Browuish-voUow saud and tri'Jivol .'> to 6 feet 



2. Brown i'()H"ei'-(H>lore(l clav with irn-at (|ii!m!ities of 



LTvpsiun fiystals 2 to G feet 



.'i. Brown and yellowish- brown sand and lodges of indn- 

 rated sand or ferruginous saiulstone, the sands con- 

 taining Aiioniia ephipj>loide.<, Gabl) ; PUcatula 

 Jilamentotid Conrad ; Spirorbis leptostoma, Swain ; 

 Vohitififhes prtrum Conrad; and other fossils,^'* over 40 feet 

 Going eastward the Navasota Iliver section is practically the 

 same as on the Brazos. Neocene beds occur a short distance north 

 of Rock Creek, in Grime County. The Frio clays do not appear 

 anywhere along this river, l)ut overlaps of the Neocene Nava- 

 sota beds (Oakville beds of Durable) completely cover them. The 

 Fayette sands extend to about the mouth of Gibl)on's Creek, or a 

 short distance above, and from there to near the northwest corner of 

 Madison Coimty the whole country is occupied l)y the gray sands, 

 greenish blue lignitic clays and lignites of the Yegua showing prac- 

 tically the same sections as those found along the Brazos. Very 

 few sections of any value are found along this river, but the few 

 obtainable, supplemented by those farther inland, show the general 

 sequence here given. The gy[)seous clays are found in this region 

 lying close to the base and occupying the same position as near Elm 

 Creek on the western side of Brazos County. 



The Trinity River section shows the typical Yegua clays in many 

 of the bluffs. A section at Hyde's Bluff, in the southwestern portion 

 of Houston County, shows : 



1. Dark yellowish-brown clayey loam 8 feet 



2. Conglomerate ofnodular iron ore, silicious pebbles, 

 silicified wood, coarse brown sand and fine gravel. 2 feet 



•S. Dark blue sandy clay with iron pyrites. ... 10 feet 



Lignite 2 inches to 2 feet 



Light grayish-blue sand and gray clay inter- 

 laminated 10 feet 



Lignitic 2 to 4 feet 



Dark purple colored clay 1^ feet 



Gray sand containing rounded and fiat oval 

 shaped concretions of indurated gray sand, to 

 water 4 feet 



»* Harris' MS. Monograph of Texas Tertiary Fossils. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PUILADELPHIA. 105 



Tlie base of these heds is seen at Alabama bluff" some tweuty 

 miles farther up the river, wliere a bed of blue clay with gypsum 

 crystals occurs iu contact with the underlying fossiliferous sands of 

 the Marine beds. This section shows :^ 



1. Black sandy loam 5 feet 



\ egua 2. Gravelly conglomerate 2 feet 



days .^ Laminated blue clay with gypsum 2 to 5 feet 



4. Fossiliferous greenish-blue clay 4 feet 



= ^ 5. Green sand 5 feet 



S jq 6. Clay ironstone 10 inches 



'^ 7. Fossiliferous clay, to water 5 feet 



No. 3 of this section shows the ba.-«e of the Vegua clays as found 

 on the Trinity Kiver. 



Eastward towards the Neches Kiver the deposits belonging to this 

 stage assume more and more the same structure and conditions of 

 defK)8ition as found in Angelina and the other counties in the east- 

 ern |K)rtion of the area. 



The positions of the .sections given show approximately the north- 

 ern boundary of the area occupied by these Yegua clays. The line 

 may !)e trace<l by the outcroppings of the gy|)Seous clays and sands 

 from the Sabine Kiver, near Sabine Town, in a generally northwest- 

 ern direction as far as the Angelina Kiver, near the mouth of the 

 Atoi Creek, in Cherokee, and thence southwesterly, crossing the 

 Neches near Weches Post Office, jKissing through the eastern side of 

 the town of Crockett, crossing the Trinity at Alabama IJlulf, the 

 NavM.«ota Kiver near the northwest corner of Madison County and 

 the Krazos at the locality shown in the section already given. To 

 the ."iouth they are circumscribed i)y the overlying Fayette sands. 



llidike the rou;_di, hilly region occupied by the Fayette sands, the 

 (;i)untry occupied by the Yegua clays is generally flat. Sand hills^ 

 and ridges occur in several localities, but throughout tlu- greater 

 portion level, prairie-like conditions prevail. 



The fauna of these deposits throughout east Texas is scanty in 

 (he extreme. Oi' the vertebrates only one specimen, the |»ortion of 

 the lower jaw of a species of CnM-oili/iiM, hius ix-eii obtained, and that 

 from a well at Uryan, while no invertebrate fossils have been found 

 anywhere east of the l>ra/os except at the ba.'<e of the bcdr^ en llmt 

 ^Tliinl .\iniiiiil Kcport < iitnl Surveyor TcxiiH, IMtl, p. l.*). 




l'*'» l'K<K."KKIUNOS OF TlIK ACAKK.MY OK [1895. 



riviT, altliouLrli tlir ln-dij touml on tlic VoLTim nri- tiisriililiTdiis, iiiid 

 those found lartlu-r weat are reportctl to have yiidded a very lair 

 iiiiiuhor ot" that chiss of animal life. IMant n-niains are numerous, 

 both in the I'orni of silicified and ligniti/eil wooil, and leaves ol" many 

 kinds are extremely abundant. None of these have yet been 

 studied, but from the faet that siiicilied palm wood occurs, althoujih 

 sparingly, among the upper gray sands, the climate was slightly 

 warmer than at present. 



The general conditions of deposition during this period appear to 

 have been those of a marsh subject to periodical deep, wide-spread 

 inundation and a gradual, though slow, subsidence. The Marine 

 beds lying to the north evidently stood at a much higher relative 

 elevation than at present. Their southern boundary is everywhere 

 carved into bold outlines and deej)ly indented bays showing at places 

 steepsided and shelving blurts where the Yegua clays rest uncou- 

 formably upon and against them, and from which boulders of fossil- 

 iferous sand.^tones have fallen and are now found in con.sideral)le 

 numbers imbeded in the sands and lying between one and two 

 miles from the line of contact. At other places where bay- like con- 

 ditions prevailed, the jjlacid waters of the Hooded areas favored a 

 calmer deposition and growth of plant life ; the lines of contact are 

 not so far apart in their general conditions and range of dip. 



Instances of the former conditions are many. Typical illustra- 

 tions of this blurt-like shore line may be seen at Cook's Mountain, 

 iu Houston County, and near Elm Creek, north of IJryan, in 

 IJrazos County. At Cook's Mountain the hill rises almost abruptly 

 from the level of Milam branch to an elevation of I'M) feet above 

 the stream bed, and is capped with fifty feet of altered glauconitic 

 fossiliferous sandstone. The gyj)seous clays of the Yegua stage are 

 found only on the south .side of the stream, and rest upon a heavy 

 bed of fossiliferous sand projecting from the side of the mountain. 

 The Brazos section also shows this want of conformity in quite as 

 strong a manner. The Marine beds occur caj)ping the higher hills 

 ten miles north of College Station and lying at an elevation of 875 

 feet, while College Station has an altitude of 350 feet. The dip of 

 the Marine beds in this .section clo.sely approaches 75 feet per mile 

 and these beds, after allowing for the dirterence of elevation, should 

 have been found at 725-750 feet in the well bored at the college. 

 The bore, however, wa.s over 900 feet deep before fossils occurred. 




1895.] NATUKAI. SC'IENC't:S OF PIIILADEI.rillA. 107 



and then tbey corresponded to a lower division of tlie Moseby Ferry 

 section than those found near Elm Creek. Moreover, on the south 

 pronir of Thompson's Creek, ahout eight miles north of the well 

 boulders and of ferruginous fossiliferous sandstone occur imbedded 

 in the yellowish gray sandy clay of the Yegua beds. 



The correlation of any of these three stages — the Frio clays, 

 F'avette sands and Yegua clays — with the dt-posits of Louisiana lying 

 immediately to the east is attended with more or less difficulty and 

 doubt from the fact that little or no work, and that of the. most 

 general character, appears to have been done in that portion of the 

 State. The Grand Gulf, according to both Hilgard and Hopkins, 

 a[)pcars to have embraced the upper two and at least a portion of the 

 Yegua clays besides the upper calcareous sandstones, and was, accord- 

 ing to these writers, above the Vicksburg. The lower portion of the 

 Yegua clavs were apparently considered by them to be of Jackson age. 

 Dr. Hilgard says, after describing the Grand Gulf formation: "On 

 the Sabine River, too, the upper jwrtion of the profile is pretty 

 correctly reproduced. At the base of the Grand Gulf rocks we find 

 on the liayou Taureau a seam of shell-limestone with Vicksburg 

 fossils. We then pass over lignito-gypseous strata to Sal)ine Town, 

 Te.\as, where we .see about .seventy feet of these overlying ledges of 

 blue fossiliferous limestone altcrntiting every two or three feet with 

 what would be green san<l marl like that of Vicksburg had not the 

 lime of the numerous shells, of which it contains casts, been removed 

 l»v subse<pient dissolutiim. So far as I have seen, the usual leading 

 fossils of Vicksburg are wanting here, while the greater sandiness of 

 the materials, as well as the prevalence of shallow sea bivalves indi- 

 cates their deposition in shallower water. As we proceed north- 

 ward from Sal)ine Town lignitic clays and lignite alone .«e|)arate, and 

 sometimes ahogether replace the limestone ledges which themselves 

 become |)Oorer in fossils as we approach the northern edge of the 

 formation.'"' 



According to Hopkins the Jackson beds consist of marine strata 

 with characteristiit fossils of lignite an*l non-fossiliferous beds and 

 laminated sands and clays ancl among the marine beds massive beds 

 (»f clay full of selenite.^ 



" <ieol. Koconii. of I^., .\iiHTiran Jounml of Science, Socoml 8eric«, Vol. 

 .Xl.VIil. IMilt, p. xw. 



•■' lii-Mi Amiiiul I{<|irirt I,<iiiihi»iia SUitc (icol. Survey, iwm, |.|i. UI-lMl; SkoimI 

 Aniiunl i;<ii<>rt !-<iiiisi.iiia StuU- (icol. Survey, 1H7I, pp. 7 U> h-1. 




H^'"^ PROCKKDlNdS OK THK ACAIlKMY (»K [1895. 



With the exception of the lignite :iii<l characteristic J ncUtioii fossils 

 this ilescription wouhl iiuswer the Texas Frio chiys as well as the 

 Yegim days. Besides their contact with aud uiulerlying the 

 Neocene Navasota beds (Oakville beds) would in the absence of the 

 VicksburLT deposits closely correspond with the Frio clnys. Their 

 extension to Sabine Town, however, where they woujd meet the 

 Marine beds of the Texjxs section would naturally lead to the in- 

 fercm-e that both the Fayette sands and Yeurua clays are ab-sent in 

 Louisiana. 



This interpretation of the work done in I^^uisiana can hardly be 

 accepted, aud until more information is obtainable the correlation of 

 the I)eds in these States must be lel't as an unsolved problem. 



Marine Beds. 



Lying immediately nortli of the Yegua clays wc have an extensive 

 series of green sands, green sand marls, altered green sands contain- 

 ing thin strata of carbonate of iron, indurated altered fossiliferous 

 greed sand, green fossiliferous clays, glauconitic sandstones and clays 

 stratified, black aud gray sandy clays, black and yellow clays with 

 limy concretions, brown and yellow fossiliferous sands with occasional 

 tleposits of black sand containing gypsum crystals, and at wide in- 

 tervals small deposits or thin seams of lignite. Extensive deposits 

 of ferruginous sandstone and limonite, both in laminated and nodular 

 form, occur in the upper divisions. The prevailing deposits, however, 

 are the green sands in their several characters. The clays are of 

 minor importance and exist generally as thin beds of irregular dis- 

 tribution iuterstratified with the sands. The lignites are usually not 

 more than a few inches thick and are never continuous, and the 

 limonite depo.sits occur as nodular ores lying in heaps or mounds 

 among the grayish- brown and gray sands or as laminated ores cover- 

 ing wide areas of the surface, particularly throughout Cherokee, 

 Anderson, and Rusk Counties. These are the iron-ore fields of 

 East Texas, and constitute the series of beds known as the Marine 

 beds of the Texas section and have a total thickness of 650-700 feet. 



Stratigraphically these beds occupy a position intermediate between 

 the overlying Yegua clays and the liguitic stage, and form the upper- 

 most division of Penrose's titnber l)elt or Sal)ine River beds.'*'' In 

 the reports of the Texas Geological Survey these beds have been 



•"' First Annual Report (icol. Survey of Texas, 1889, i»i». 22-47. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCKS OF nilLADELPHIA. 109 



divided into two groups or series, the basal from its greatest develoj)- 

 ment in Cherokee County was called, tentatively, the "^[ouut Sel- 

 man" series, and the upper, from iti- tyi)ical development in Houston 

 County, received the name of the "Cook's Mountain" series. This 

 division was made partly on lithological grounds, the lower or Mount 

 Selman series being generally heavier be<lded and made up through- 

 out its greater extent of dark green and brown sands and sandstones, 

 with very thin seams of iron and while fossiliferous to a greater or 

 less extent the fossils are much fewer than in the upper or Cook's 

 Mountain series, and exist almost altogether in the form of casts. 

 On the other hand the upper series, which includes the highest beds of 

 the Marine stage, is to a great extent loose sands and clays with heavy 

 i)eds of laminated iron ore and contains a large and Iteautil'ully pn-- 

 served fauna. 



While probably the distinctive lithological ditt'erences between the 

 up|>er and lower divisions of these beds may not hold gootl at all 

 |»oinL^ and it may be difficult under the present existing conditions 

 to draw the exact line between them yet the genera! paucity of life 

 in these lower beds appears in marked contrast with the teeming lii'e 

 of the upper. 



In the northeastern portion of the State, where in Ca.ss, Marion 

 and Morris Counties, these beds appear only as remnants of a wide- 

 spread cover, or as i.solated patches forming the low hills of the 

 region, nothing but the lower beds are seen. These are brown, 

 l)rownish-yellow and green in color, indurated and moderately hard 

 .sands and sandstones, and have till now shown no trace whatever 

 of animal life. In Harrison County the greenish-yellow san<lstones 

 .seen near the Marshall waterworks pumping station show occasional 

 casta of Vr tier I card in ■plaiiirnxin Lam., and the same form has also 

 l)een found near Hynson's Springs, in the .saniQ county. These lie 

 at the ba.se of the Marine bed- as sh»)wn in the section at the pum|)- 

 ing liou.«e. 



1. Hrown gravelly sand 5 feet 



ij 2. Laminated iron ore and ferruginous sand.stone . H ft'<*t 

 '5 •'). (Jreenish-yellow altere<l glauconitic sandstone 

 ?? with CiLst-H of Vniirirnrdin pfninroHtn. ... 1 l«<'t 



S 4. Laminated or thinly stratified reil and white 

 s sands and sandy clays forming up|)ermo8t bed 



J <»f the li^Miitie in thi.< |)ortion r)f the coiinfv I") feet 




1 H> I'UOCKKPINOS OK THK ACADKMY OK [1895. 



Coniinfj west ward the same uufossiliferous condition of tlicso lower 

 beds is seen along the youth 8i<le of the Sahine Kiver in CJrepg 

 Couuty, in a section nt Iron Bridge Post Office. Here tlie l)lnir 

 shows : 



1. Surface dark brown or coffee-colored sand with 



broken fragments of sandstone (5 feet 



2. Heavy bed of yellowish-brown sandstone .... (5 feet 



3. Brown sand (i feet 



4. Brown or yellowish-brown sandstone similar to No. 



2, but softer and containing alternate strata of 



brown sand 10 feet 



5. Brown or yellowish-brown sand containing occa- 



sional small nodules or concretions of iron . . 12 feet 

 In the Mount Selman region, in Cherokee County, the section 

 shown along the line of the Tyler Southeastern Railway is more 

 sand than sandstone, and while containing a few fossil casts cannot 

 be called fossiliferous throughout. The general section shown from 

 JackBonville to Bullard gives :*" . 



1. Gray surface sand 10 feet 



2. lirown sand, ferruginous pebbles and iron ore . . 15 feet 



3. Mottled sand 10 feet 



4. Brownish- yellow sand 4 feet 



5. Brownish- yellow standstone 10 feet 



6. Alternate strata of laminated iron ore and brown 



sand, the ore generally from two to ten inches 



and the sand from one to two feet thick .... 8 feet 



7. Dark green sand containing casts of small bivalve 



shells 5 feet 



S. White clayey sand 1 foot 



9. Dark green, nearly black, sand containing thin 

 seams of ferruginous material near top, and also 

 containing small fish teeth and Venerirardia plani- 

 coxfa and Spharella antiproducta in very small 

 numbers 12 feet 



10. Brown sand • 10 feet 



11. White sand 10 feet 



'" Tliiid Annual Kr-|>«rl Ccol. Survoy of Tc.\a.s, IHOl, p. .''>3. 




l'S90.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



12. Alternate ?;trata of brown sand and laminated iron 



ore, one generally wavy and not more than two 

 to six inches with sand from one to two feet 

 thick 20 feet 



13. Pale-blue and brown clay mottled in places and 



laminated in others 1") feet 



1 4. Alternate strata of <.dauconitic brown sand and 



iron ore, the ore generally irregularly de- 

 posited, laminated and silicious and not exceed- 

 ing six inches to one one foot, the sand from six 

 inches to two feet thick 55 feet 



1 5. lirown sand formintj surface at liullard. altered 



green sand changing to yellow a few feet under 

 ground 40 feet 



16. Dark green sand containing a few fossil .shell.-^ and 



fish teeth 24 feet 



^•j^.;j 17. Lignite or "black dirt" containing leaves . . .2 feet 

 ^ ■= IS. Dark lignitic clay 5 feet 



Nos. 17 and 18 of this section belong to the lignitic beds. 



On approaching the Brazos the base- of these beds is again seen 

 about two i|^les south of Calvert, in Robert.«ion County, where they 

 form a ridge of brownish-yellow sandstone of very nimilar texture 

 :ind ap|)earance as the sandstones in Harrison County, and appear to 

 l)e altogether unfossilitierous. Where the International and Great 

 Northern Railway crosses the Brazos River these beds are again seen 

 in the following section : 



1. Yellow sandy clay with limy concretions .... 20 feet 



2. Brown sand and sandstones interstratified ... 4 to 6 feet 

 .{. Dark green, almost black, unfoasiliferous sand 5 feet 



4. Thinly laminated dark green .sand (5 feet 



5. Irregular belt of ferruginous sandstone ■] to 1 foot 



(). Dark green, almost black, .sand, to water .... '.i feet 



The lower and up|)er divisions grade into each other so imper- 

 ceptibly that so far as the actual division is lithologically concerned 

 any line of separation would be but a very arbitrary one. The 

 wide distinction, however, in the state of preservation and condition 

 of th(! contained fossils might jvwsibly enable us to approximately 

 indicate the limits within which the several Ixrds might be aa^^igiK^l 

 to each. As already stated the foBsils of the lower or Mount Sel- 




ll'J i>R()CFEi>iN(»s OK riiK a(;ai>iomy ()|- [1895. 



man hods exist ulniosl wholly in llu; torin of ('iists, w licicus, on (he 

 other haiul, the fauna of the Cook's Mountain, or upper heds, is 

 beautifully preserved, many hcinp in a very perfect condition and 

 exist in great nund)ers. 



In crossing the whole series from north to south the first indica- 

 tion of well preserved fossils in the east occurs in the southern jior- 

 tion of Rusk County, near Mount Enterprise, and on Stevens hrnnch, 

 a tributary of Shawnee Creek. Farther west they are found in 

 Cherokee, south of Jacksonville, a few miles west of Palestine, in 

 Anderson, near the mouth of P^lkliart Creek, in Houston, near Cen- 

 treville, in Leon, and south of Franklin, in Robertson County, and 

 near the Burleson County north line on the Rra/.os. These locali- 

 ties may therefore be taken as approximately indicating the northern 

 line of the "Cook's Mountain " or upper series of the Marine beds 

 as known in Texas, but it must be remembered that on the ea.stern 

 side very extensive erosion has taken place, and probably these beds 

 may have extended much fhrther north. At any rate the line mny 

 be considered jis only an approximate division of what evidently 

 constitutes but one stage of the Eocene. 



To the south of this apjiroximatc boundary we have an extensive 

 series of green sands, glauconitic sands, ferruginous sandstones, clays 

 and iron ores in most respects similar to those lying north of it. The 

 green sands, as a general thing, are less altered and more glauconitic, 

 the sands less indurated and the iron ore deposits much heavier and 

 almost altogether laminated. The fauna is very much richer both 

 in species and number of specimens, and the fossils all in a good 

 state of preservation and easily obtainable. 



While these beds are known to exist in isolated hills throughout 

 the counties of Ru.sk, Nacogdoches, San Augustine and Sabine 

 Counties, lying east of the Angelina River, no satisfactory sections have 

 been obtained and only a few of the fossils from these areas have been 

 determined. According to Professor Heilprin'" these include Veneri- 

 carditi transversa IjCU, Crassatella texana llcilp. , Pectcn deshaycsii 

 Lea, Osfrea alabamensis Lea, 0. sella-formis Lea and var. divarieata 

 Lea, from San Augustine County. Pcclnncuhis idoiicus Con., and 

 Ostrea sclUrJomiis, var. divarieata Lea, from Nacogdoches County, 



<' Proc«edinK8 Arafl. of X. R., Pliila., Oct. ISfK), pp. ZU3-4M. 




1895.] NATTRAI. SCIENCES OF PJIILAUELPill A. 113 



have been ideutified by Mr. Harris/- PseiidoUva vetusta Con., 

 Venerirardia planicosta Lam., have also been obtained from the hi uH' 

 at Sabine Town, The fossils found in Rusk and Nacofrdoches 

 (bunties are well preserved and enclosed in a bhiish-green indurated 

 marl and hard to extract in a condition suitable for identification. 

 The Sabine Town fossils are enclosed in a brown sand. ScuiellK 

 r(ipiif->!i}ieiisis Ileilpr. , also occurs in San AuL'^ustine as well as west 

 of the Angelina at McBcc's School and noar Alto, in Cherokee 

 County. 



West of the Angelina River tiie most important section obtained 

 is that at Alto, in Cherokee County. This section embraces a series 

 of green sands and altered glauconitic sands and sandstones lying close 

 to the top of the "Cook Mountain" beds, and forms the uppermost 

 Eocene deposit in this portion of the State. The section combines the 

 whole of the green sand dejwsits from Alto, eastward to the edge of 

 tin' Angelina River " bottom lands," eight or ten miles farther east, 

 and tlie whole or the greater portion of the section may also be taken 

 as representative of the structure of the country from Alto south- 

 westward to the Nechcs. The section shows: 



1. Gray sand ;') to 20 feet. 



'2. Ferruginous sandstone ... 1 foot. 



'A. Iron pyrites and lignite . . . 1 to 1 foot. 



4. Laminated iron ore and brown sand .... 10toir>feet. 

 ;"). l>rown and yellowi.><h- brown altered udauconitic 

 sand with streaks and nodules of calcareous 

 matter and containing Tercbra hnnsiimin Har- 

 ris, n. sp. , I'/i iirntama (Siirriifu) (/ttbhii 

 Conrad, O.itrm srlhrjnnn'm, var. divarirufu Jaui, 

 Plimn, sp. , Tritjininrrii pnfrli III Giihh, J'xriidd/ivn 

 vcfiLffd dm., I'nhttilithnt pclidsn Con., Lufinix 

 moorri Gabh, Corbubi fexnno Harris, Ciirbii/n 

 nldrichi, var. KinHhrifliii«lj< Harris, Drufn/iiivi 

 Diinnllnh'iiitiim (Jal)!), Vfjirricnrdin /t/nnirosfii 

 Lam., Verier in I id in rotuudu Jxja, ('hiriHthru 



" Harris' MS., Monojfrai>h Tc.xiih Tcrtiarj' fowtils. 



NoTK. — I liavo not viHit<<l :\uy of tin- l<K-alitii>!< nft'nT<l to in Rusk. Sucoft- 

 iloclioH and S!il)inr Coiiiitirs. Iliisk hihI N!h;ou<I<m-Iu-h Coiintir.s wvri' <\iOiiin<'il in 

 ls<M( l>y Nfr. .F. H. W.ilker. His -Miti'ins ran Im' w«>n in tlu- S<'(<inil Aiiniiiil Kc- 

 |H.rt. <ii'<>l. ."^iirviy of TcxaH. I^'il, tindir tliiw county li«-H<lini;s. 'I'lny apin-ar to 

 inu to In- sliuhtiy unnlialilf I Ik Silpinc Town fos»iil.H wt«rf ."wnt from IIhtc by 

 tlie l'ostnia.si<T to Mr. I)uni)>li' at lii^ r«<nMat. K. 




11 ' PHOCKKIMNdS OF TIIK AfADKMY OK [1895. 



rrgrxn Harris, n. sp., J^hos Icninu Gnhl) 

 vnr. . Distortio stjitnii(hiil(tl<i Gal)l), S<i/iiriiim 

 aciitinii, var. incrkdninn Gabb, Tiirhdimn, 

 (\tIyptvnj)hovus velaius Con., Mrsniia chil- 

 hnnwnsis Con., Auimtiit rphi/ipioidti^ (iabb, 

 ('crifhiKin vinrttim Wh\{i'., Pfctin cldlhnnimsiit 

 Conrad, Pvoten dcslniyrsli Len, Plicaiula fila- 

 mmfostf Con., Cythcrni frxdcohi Harris, Cm.f- 

 sntella fixima Hcilp. , Turrifrlfd misntu Gabb, 



and many of these in profusion (! feet. 



(). Yellowish- brown and grayish-brown often grayish- 

 green indurated green sands containing most of 

 the fossils found in No. 5 and an additional 

 fauna of Pleurotimut (^DriUUt) vodocariimta 

 Gabb, Volutilifhcs peirosa var. indcnia Conrad, 

 Caricella subangtdata var. clurnkeensis Harris, 

 Cassiddfia brcvicoshda Aid., Phohidomyn clai- 

 bornensis Aid., Byssoarca cuntlloldes Con., 

 Martcsla texana Harris, n. sp. Dcnt<dimn 

 miimtistriatum var. dumblei, n. var., Protocar- 

 diinn nicnUefti Con. var., Nafica newUmensis 

 Aid., N<dim Iwnda var., Rimella texana, var. 

 }>lana, new var. Canccllaria pannnrs Harris, n. 

 sp. , Cltivilithes (Pajjillina) dumosa, var. frapa- 

 ({tiara Harris, C. huvierosa, var. texana Harris, 

 Cassidfiria brevicosta Aid., TwHtella dutcxta 

 Harris, Scutella caput- sinensis Heilpr., and fish 

 teeth 20 feet. 



7. Green sands with casts of fossils (5 " 



8. Brown altered glauconitic sandstone with casts of 



fossils 30 " 



9. Green sand witii fish teeth and (hvim miiridens 



Con., Aiiomia cphlpjAoides Gabb, Byssoarca. 

 CHciilloides Con., Trigovarca pti/chra Gabb, 

 Voliiti/ithrs petrosn Con., Volvtilithes precursor 

 Dal), and others belonging to Nos. 5 and 6 . . 8 " 

 The localities from which these fossils were obtained all lie be- 

 tween Alto and the Angelina Kiver. The specimens are, as a general 

 thing, very plentiful, and in most localities eaaily freed from the 




1895.] NATUKAL SCIENCKS (»F rHIl,AI)KM'IIIA. 1 1 i) 



enclosing matrix, those in the brownish-yellow sand being often 

 free. 



As already slated these beds can l)e easily traced from this point 

 in a southwesterly direction for many miles, the bed containing 

 the Scidelld caput- sinensli* forming a particularly well marked horizon. 

 No Scutella), however, have yet been found in Houston County or to 

 the west, although plentiful from the Neclies eastward to San Augus- 

 tine. Four miles west of Alto, a range of tlat-topped steep-sided 

 hills show a general section of: 



1. Gray sand 20 feet. 



2. Indurated yellow sand containing numerous Scu- 



telhc and Osfrra xcUdfonitis, var. (Urarlrain 

 Lea, Anomid rphippioldrx Gabl), P.« lulolivn 

 vrtnsta Con. , Venericardin plauicosta Lam., and 



Ci/flirrrii fnrwidotils Harris*"^ 20 feet. 



8. Red sand with ca.<ts of fossils 1-') " 



4. Green sand with casts of fossils visible .... 4 " 

 (Vo-ssing the Niches into Houston County the section as shown in 

 a w(;ll near Kobbins' Ferry shows: 



1. ( irav sand <! inches to 1 ioot. 



2. Lauiiiiatcd iron ore 4 inches to 10 inches. 



:-{. Indurated yellow fossiliferous santly marl contain- 

 ing Ancill'i (OH I'll In) sdiiiiilii II {'()n.,0><tir(i sr/ln- 

 fnrmis, var. dlvnrirnfti Ivea, Ainnnin rjtliipplnidiH 

 Gahb, Vitirriviiidiii phniicitniii Lam., and Cnissn- 



IfUd tnipiiqiiiiin Harris" . ... ... 2 feet. 



4. Yellow sand 10 " 



:.. Clay 2i " 



<). Fossiliferous green sandy clay containing Ainnnin 

 I phipj)ii)idiH Crabb, Vriin-icdrdin plniiiciiHln 

 Lam., iiimrlln trxmin, var. jthiiin, now variety, 



< 'iilil/ifioplinntA I'llnlim Con.'* "> to (i 



7. Ked clay '■'> to 1 " 



X. IMue marl with fossils same as No. l'^ 



'•. Brown sand to bottom of well .'> " 



At the crossing <»f the San I'cdro (Jreek Ity the Kusk road in tlic 



'^ lliirris, MS.S.. Miiininnii>li m I'. \;i.h 'I'irliuy l'iissil-<. 



♦• liiirri.H M.s-H. Mi.iii.uriii.li "I I'i \:i- Tcrfiiiry liishils. 



••■' First .\linil(ll K»:|k)|I <...,! -mi v ..l T. \:is IsMI |. M. 




II'' IMtOCKIODINdS (H- rilK ACADKMY OK [1895. 



8!iiiu> coimtv, tli(> south l)iink of I he creek shows a seel ion of 



1. (Jray saiuls '25 feet 



2. Hrowu sand and altered j^reeii sand with sirntiiieil 



ferruginous material and thin hiiniiiM' of iron 



ore near hase (> feet 



4. Yel!t)\v indurated fossiliferous altered /^^recn sand 



packed with shells 20 feet 



The eastern portion of Hurricane Bayou forms the approximate 

 southern boundary of the Marine heds for six or eii^ht miles east of 

 Crockett. Here, when the JJayou is dry, or the water at a low staj^e, 

 an extremely interesting fauna may readilj' be obtained. Among 

 the fossils found we have Terebrn tcxagyra Harris var. , T. honstnnia 

 Harris n. sp. , Connx saiirldnis Con., Plciirotowa (Snrcu/a) gahbii 

 Con., PL lieilpriniana H. n. sp., /*/. (Drillla) nodocarinata Gabb., 

 PL rhihJrnii Lea, var. h'tlota, H., PL hiipjiertzl Harris, n, sp. /*/. 

 megapiii H. n. sp., PL ( Drlllia) fexacotia Harris, PL {Drill in) texnua 

 Gabb., PL vaiujlumi var. Harris, PL retefera H., PL (Mam/ellia) 

 Infaus var. H. , Mr. Ollvella bombylis var. b^irlesnnia H., A)ic!lla 

 (Olii'ida) staminea Con., Anom'm rphlppioldrx Gabb., Pliadula fihi- 

 mentomCon., Pecfen sp., Plnua sp., Peetunculus idoneua Con., Pseu- 

 dnJhft vctmta CV)n. var., Vnlutllithes pctrnsa Con,, Caricclla dnnissa 

 var. fcxiuia Gabb., ManiincUa seminoidcs Gabb., Lapparia pndilis 

 var. mooremia Gahh. , Tnrricula {Conomitra) texann H., Tercbra 

 nmiciin Con., T. cosfata Lea, var., Latirus moorei Gabb., (Jorbula 

 nbihtivwnsis Lea, DcnUdinm minutistriatum Gabb., Cadulus sub- 

 foamiahis Gabb., Venericardia rotunda Lea, V. planheosta Lam., 

 Crassntdla iexana H., Cylherea tornadnnis H., C/avUithes (Papi/lhia) 

 dmnosa var. H., C. trapaquara H., Fusus mortoni var. morfonojfsis 

 Gabb, ('lavUithea humerosn var., fexana H., Phos texann Gahh var., 

 Disfortio scptcmdentata Gabb, Cassldaria planotecia Aid., Solarium 

 itcutum var. mcekanum Gabb, Natica acuta Gabb, Natica limula 

 var., tSigaretus declivia Con. , Mcsalia claibor^iensis Con., Bclosepia 

 mif/ida Gabb, Spirorbis Irpfostoma Swain, and the corals OccuUna 

 Ileilpr., TnrbinoUa pharetra Lea, TrodioHmilia mortoni Gabb and 

 Horn, and Endojtacltys maclurii Lea. 



These fossils all occur in an altered green sand of a brownish 

 yellow color in places indurated into hard slabby sandstones, but the 

 greater portion soft. This' overlies a dark green sand and clay as 




1895.] NATL'KAI. SCIENCES OF PlIILADELPJIIA. 117 



seen in a well at Mr. K. Jones' house, nearly half a mile north of 

 the Bayou. The section of the well shows : 



1. Yellowish-brown sandy clay 6 feet 



2. Joint clay feet 



3. Thinly laminated black fossiliferous sand 4 feet 



4. Bluish irreen fossiliferous sands 14 feet 



Nos. 3 and 4 hold fossils closely corresponding to those found on 



the Bayou with a few additional species. 



West of Crockett, about two miles, we have Cook's Mountain, an 

 isolated hill rising about 460 feet above sea level and showing a 

 more or less precipitous face on every side. This face, however, is 

 marked by a series of benches and the general section shown on 

 the eastern side, from Milam branch to the top of the mountain, 

 shows : 



1. Brown ferruginous sandstone with occasional casts 



of a SHiall bivalve 10 feet 



2. Yellow-colored crossbedded altered glauconitic sand 40 feet 

 .'1. Brown sand and sandstone with occasional seams 



of ferruginous material 55 feet 



4. Brown ferruginous sandstone containing Ostrca scl- 



l(ifi)rml.'<\iir. divir'nutu I^ea, and O. iilitb(iini'n.'<!s 



Ijea in considerable numbers .• 10 feet 



5. Iron ore 1 foot 



<■>. Urown sand containing Bidinulii Icillui/ii Gabb.. 



Tin:br<i frxnyi/rn var. Harris, T. hnustontn Har- 

 ris, n. sp., ('imn.'< nan ridnm Cou. , I'liurutmnn 

 (Surcnii) ijiihbii Con., PL ((uchle^pini) rni/oiiafu 

 Cou., PI. (Di'illin) nndocurinnlu Gabb., J'l. 

 (l>rUUii) trxiiiin var. y<//7;o»/r.>( Harris, /*/. (Man- 

 ijillii) liifinui var., PL sp., Anrilln ( Olhulln) hIhiii- 

 iiirn Con. , (Mna (ilnbdinrnsis Ijea, O. sidlti- 

 formic var. divurlcnln I^ea, Anoiimi ( j)liij)])ii>I(li.'i 

 Gubb. , Pliriitubi J'diimiiitoisii Con., Arini/n sp. , 

 Piiimt sp., Pai'udtdiv<t vdMtadtu. var., Vulnld- 

 IfluH pitroaa Con.. V. jntrunn, var. iinlmln Con.. " 

 V. piiritrxor Dall. var., Cnricellti Hubiiiii/n/iiln 

 rnr. rhrmkvtitni.t Harris, Lajijutriu pavtiliH vur. 

 iiKuni unit (inbb., LnlnilA mnnni Gabb., ('iniin- 

 liwi nriniyrrn ' '"" Cinbnln iiliibmiK nsls \a-h. 




118 I'UOCKKDINGS OK Till: ACADKMY OK [1895. 



]'niiilciir(li(i j>l<(nin>sl(i 1j:iiii., ('ijiliiitn tcxunthi 

 Harris, ClitcUiflu;^ rcycxti Harris, n. sp. , I'lum 

 tt.ri(ii(i Gtihh. var. , Di-iloiiln sc/ilrindniliitii 

 Ga.\)h., Scald, Ndtirii (ivttfti Gal)l»., X. Iiiiii(hi 

 var., tSii/an'futt (Iccliris Con., ('(i/ii/ifropluirnn 

 cdiifits Con. 'rurriti lilt intmiln var. hiiii.ilotiid 

 llarri.s, V. iidsnln Gal)!)., I>rl(iS(]>id mnjiild 

 Ciahl)., and the eoruls Oiriillnd Heil|)r., Tiirbi- 

 nolld ])lidriti(i Loa, Tr(>cli(i)<niiUd inorfoiii Gahl) 

 and Hi>rn, ami Emlopachys iiiaclurU, Lea. A 

 nuniher of" lish toeth also (tccur in this hod . . ]."> feet 

 Going north from the llnrrirane Bayou localities we lind t'ossili- 

 ferous indurated hrownish-yellow and green marly sands at Han- 

 non's mill, and on the Murchison prairie and eastward. A section 

 of Murchi.sou prairie shows : 



1. lilack soil 1 to 2 feet 



2. Brownish-yellow altered green sand 4 feet 



0. Brown saud containing Ostrcd (ddbimunsis Lea, 



Ostreu sclltvfonnis var. dlvarlcata Lea, Pecten dcs- 

 hinji'sii Liea.,(\'rtthiavi vinrfnm Whitf. , Vcinricdr- 

 did altlcoxht var. jtcrdidiqaa Con., Venericardki 

 jtlanicdstd [jam.; and Cytherea texacola Har- 

 ris, VolufilUhcs pctrosa var. indenfa Con., Cor- 



nulhia armiijera Con 4 feet 



4. Bluish green marly sand indurated and containing 

 similar fossils to No. 3, as well as ('oihula al- 

 drichi var. sinltlmllcuf^is Harris, Crdxadtvlld lex- 

 ana Heilpr., Crassaiclla fnijuKjdura Harris, and 



f)/thrrcd (exdcdld H . . . 10 feet 



Still farther north, at Elkhart, the same section appears. A 

 section at Elkhart wells shows : 



1. Brown and hlack plastic clays containing irony 



pel)hles, silicified wood and calcareous nodules . 10 feet 



2. Gray and yellow hrown clays in lliiii himiiia' ... 5 feet 



3. Dark brown altered green saud with fossil caSts . 1 foot 



4. Gray laminated plastic clays 3 feet 



5. Green sand, hard for eight or ten inches, full of 



shells and inti^rhcdded witli greenish hlack clay 4 feet 

 Tiiis bed. No. 5, contains I'licat ida jildvinitusd Conrad, Pinna sp. , 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'HILADELPIIIA. 119 



aud other fossilt; similar to thotse occurring iu the darlc greeu suud 

 aud greenish black clay as seeu iu the Jones' well near Hurricane 

 Bayou, where it has a known thicknes-:; of fourteen feet. Brown 

 clays with pebbles occur near Hague's gin four miles northeast of 

 Jones' well, and gray and bluish yellow clays with calcareous- 

 nodules can be traced as far south as the same place where they have 

 a thickness of live feet aud are underlaid l)y the same brown sand, 

 five to six feet thick, as found in No. 3 of the Elkhart section. 



On the Trinity River we have the section well exposed in a series 

 of bbitls extending from Alabama BlulJ on the south to the northern 

 edge of Houston County. The section at Alabama Bluff gives the 

 contact with the overlying Yegua clays and shows a slight uncon- 

 formal)ility between the two stages. Omitting the upper portion of 

 the section we have : 



4. Fossiliferous greenish- blue clay 4 feet_ 



"). (Jreen sand altered to a brownish-yellow sand 

 with thin strata of ferruginous 'material inter- 

 stratified and containing Volvuhi (■Diirndiana 

 Gabb, Coniui sauridt'u.i Conrad, Plenrotoma 

 {tSurcnla) (jabbli Con., PL (^Cochh'sjilra) en- 

 fjonata Con., PL (Snrcula) moorei Gabb, PL 

 (Drillia) nodocarinufa Gabb, PL sp. , AnciUn 

 (Olirulu) stamltwa Con., Aiiomia ephijipioides 

 Gabb, PUcatala filamentosa Con., TrigoiKimi 

 pulrhni Gabb, T. corbidoides Con., Leda lioiis- 

 lonia Harris, Pacndol'uu vetiinfd Con. var., Volnli- 

 litlies jietrusa Coll., Caricella dcuiissu, \a.r. texaiiu 

 Gabb, Turricula {('onovdtra) texana Harris, T. 

 />i»lH<i Gal)b, Lnllnis innurei Gabb, CurhuLi ida- 

 liaincnsiii Lea, Cuilnliis sub-rourrt tains Gal)b, 

 Ftiisim morion i, var. niinionopniK Gabb, ('lavili- 

 llu'/i jtciirosri Heilpriii, I'/tos (cj'unu Gal)l), Ditt- 

 lortlo gcjjlcindenldl'i (Ja\t[), Cusxldarin /ilmiotcrfa 

 Aid., Solariuiit bvUnMrialum Con., Nutlca anda 

 ( lubb, y. livixbi Con., Memliu i-lnUionicnsi.H 

 Con., TiirrltiUn iKtmita Con., Spirorbui Icjilof- 

 tijiiia Swain, Tnrblnolia pkareira I^a ... 5 to <» feet. 

 (). l'\;rriiL'inon.s .sandstonr with iron-ore .... 1 to 2 " 

 7. Green sand and ferruginous material .saint; ax No. 




1-0 I'KOCKKOINGS OF I'll E ALADKMV «>!• [1895. 



5 uud i-outaiiiing same fussils with additiuu of 

 J'/iurotuiiiu hcilprtniuiia Harris, n. sp. , Odrca 

 litlUiJ'onnis, var. divaricnta Lea, I'inmi, sp. , 

 liipsoaira cucxiUoidta Con., JAi/t/Hirla ixirli/ix, 

 var. mooreatia Gabb, Vcnerirnniia jihuiicoifki 

 Lain., CmMutcHd lexana ilarriy, ('ijtherea le.ca- 

 rolii Harris, ClavllUhts (I'n/tUlina) duiiiosd, var. 

 triijxiijiiarti Hnrr\i^, Xntira s\t., Tiirrltclla mindta, 

 var. hoiintonld Harris, Jiela-^cjiia loign/a Gabb, 



Eiij)In/la trapacjuaraliarns.^'' 4 feet. 



Goitiir north from liere the next bUilf is known us JirooklleUrs 

 IMntI', .six miles north of AUil)ania. No fossils were obtained here 

 and the bluH" presents a section of: 



L Sand and gravel 20 feet. 



2. JJrowu sandstone in heavy bed 10 " 



''i. Clay ironstone 1 foot. 



4. -Laminated dark blue sand and lij^ht gray clays 



with iron pyrites H feet. 



5. Lignite 2 inches. 



(j. Same as No. 4 5 feet. 



7. Thin seam of ferruginous sandstone (I inches. 



JS. Same as No. 4, getting darker in lower |)ortioii of 



the beds and covered in places with a yellow 

 elllore.scence of sulphur. Water issuing from 

 these beds is sulphurous and the springs show 

 considerable (juantities lA' hydrogen sulphide 



to level of river 15 feet. 



Five miles farther up the river is Hall's JJluff showing a section of: 



1. Gravel and sand 25 to 30 feet. 



2. Fossiliferous sandstone containing Oslrea nelkijor- 



inis, var. (Uvaricuta Lea, ('erUhnun vhuiinn 



Whitf. , and casts of others 4 " 



"•>. lied sandstone 10 " 



4. Yellowish-white sand 2 " 



5. Brown clay with gypsum crystals . . (> inches. 



6. Yellowish- white sand .5 feet. 



7. Irregular stratum of clay ironstone boiiMers . . >*> inches. 



"■' Ilarris Mss. 




1895.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PJIIJ.AUELPHIA. 121 



H. Dark greeusaud, weatheriuir browu, containiug 



fish teeth but not iuvertehrates 6 feet. 



9. Browu sand 4 " 



At Wooter's JJlutf, six miles farther uorth, the beds are also 

 found to be unfossiliferous although the higher grounds lying at 

 some distance away from the river show brown sandstones and altered 

 green sands with few fossils. The section at the bluli' appears to be 

 more of a lignitic nature towards the base. 



1. Brown and yellowish-brown sand .... lU to 15 feet. 



2. Clay ironstone 1 to o inches. 



.'}. Dark gray micaceous clay, weathering l)rown 



on outside 20 feet. 



4. Clay ironstone 1 to 2 inches. 



5. Dark blue or bluish-black micaceous clayey 



<and 2 to tj feet. 



About a mile and a half east of this iiluH" the yellowish clay with 

 limy nodules seen at P^lkhart and at Hagues gins occurs immediately 

 below a heavy de[)osit of yellowish-gray sand. 



C'rossing the Trinity and going west the "red lands" of Leon 

 County closely correspond in te.xture and faunal life with the beds 

 of Houston County on the east and the beds found in the northwest 

 corner of Madison County and the Wheelock prairie region. In 

 fact southwest I^on forms but an extension of the Madi-son and 

 Kobertson County beds. A section at the northwest corner of Madi- 

 son may be taken as a type of these "red lands." This section 

 shows : 



1. Brown sand, gravel and conglomerate houhlers . 20 feet. 



2. Brownish-vellow sau<l containing (Jonim sdiirldcnif 



Con., I'lenrotomii, sp., Osireu aellivjormls, var, 

 illrnriruta I^ea, Aiiuinid r/tlitjt/noides Gabb, /'//- 

 caiiila jilitineiifo.-<a ilou., J'geudiifivd trluntn (k)n., 

 var., (Jorhitla nlithuiHrnitis Jjeii, Veneruutrdin 

 jihuiirontn Lam., Clai'i lithe)* hiinicntsu, var. 

 Icnino Harris, (xritkium vliirtnm Whitf. and 

 Mrjtalia rlitibomriitiii Con 2 feet. 



'i. Fossiliferous sandstone containing a portion of 



tlie.xe fossils I i<»'»t. 



1. Brown ^unii 



!» 




1-- i'kiki;ki)in(js ok thk acadkmy ok [1895. 



Cedar Crtrk. near Wheelock liis iiim- mik-s; wf.st of this point 

 and it was tVoin that place tlie fossils descrihed hy (_Jal»li wi-iv ol»- 

 taiiied. In the list of spec-it's descrihed hy that writer we lind 

 Bt'/onrpiu tiiHjnUt Gahh, Miire.r (Oduiifo/toli/ii) (•nvi]ii<i>rhytis GabI), 

 /•'».•*»<.<( inor(uno/)sl,'< Gahh, Neiduma enicrmjruinina Gahb, I'leiim- 

 tuma, Ttirris ke/logil Gahh, T. texaua Gahh, T. rctlj'cra Gahh, T. 

 nodocarinata Gahh, Encheilodon reticultita Gabb, Scohinella rrassi- 

 jtlirnta Gahb, & leviplmitu Gahb. Distortio scptciiidcnVtla Gai)b, 

 Pliug tcxanii Gabb, J'seiidulica fuiijonnis Cou. niss. , P. linosa Cou., 

 msa. , P. carinata Cou. m^., P. pcrspecfiva Cou. Mss. , Gastridium 

 vtttiittiim Con., A'/uroiiiu piinctitlifeni Gabb, Fa.-iclolaria /yioor^j Gabb, 

 Cytnbiola teuaiia Gabb, Mitra inooreana Gabb, M. cc///.-? Gabb, Erato 

 seinenoides Gabb, Neverlta arata Gabb, Monopiiigma crassiplica Cou. 

 Ms.*., Architectonlcu }inehiiia Gahh, Sjnrorhis k']/fo.ifoiit<t Swaiu, Tnr- 

 ritella ticututa Gabb, Dentalium mhtidistriatuui Gabb, DHrupa sub- 

 coarcKuta Gabb, Bulla kellogii Gabb, Volvtda conradiana Gabl), 

 Corhnla texaua Gabb, Cibota ntississippiensiis Cou., A)io>nia cjdiippi- 

 i)ide^ Gabb.'" 



The whole, or nearly the whole of these species have bceu obtaiued 

 l)y the Texas Survey during the course of the work in that reijiou, 

 aud several others have been added to the above list. 



The section shown ou Cedar Creek aud iu the immediate vicinity 

 is as follows: 



1. Brown prairie sandy soil with occasional blocks or 



fragments of ferruginous .sandstone containing 

 great quantities of Plmdidn filamentom Gabb, 

 and Si'irorbU Icptostoma Swain 5-15 feet. 



2. Brown altered green sand and clay 4 " 



'i. Thiu seam of ferruginous sandstone 1 foot. 



Nos. 2 and 8 contain cjuite an extensive fauna coin[)rising 

 Act<i:oii pHudatn." Lea, Butimella kellogii Gabb, Tcrebm houstonia 

 n. sp. , Harris, Coiius saurideits Conrad, Plcnrotoma (SidTula) 

 gabbii Con., J'l — , PI. ( Cocklri<jjira) engonata Gahb, PI. bellaCou., 

 PI. (Snrcida) moorei var., Gabb, PI. (Drillia) nodocarinata Gabb, 

 PI. terebrlfonni.i yir., u. S[>. , PL ( Drillia) texwomi Harris, PI. ( Bor- 

 aonia) plenta Harri.s, Vancellaria torlijilica Con., Ancilla (Ollvida) 

 litaminea Con., Ptemlolim rttusta, var. jiictu, P. vetusta Con., var. 



" Journal .Vcadeiny of Nat. Sci. of Phila., Second Series, Vol. 4, pp. 37&-38!> 

 and plates 07 and 69. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 12.S 



P. vetuda, var. fusifonnis Lea, Ostrea alabameinsls Lea, O. selhte- 

 fonnii, var. d'lcaricata Lea, Anom'ui ephij)jnoides Gabb, Plirafula 

 filameiduga Cuurad, Byxsoama cuculloides Con,, Trigomura judrhra 

 Gabb, T. corbnhndes Con., Xuculn mmjnifica Con., Leda opulentu 

 Con., Yoldia claibornensU Conrad, Manjlndla semen Lea, Volidili- 

 thi.-i jietrom Con., V. iirecunor DixW, V. rfa7// Harris, n. sp. , Turri- 

 cula jjolUit Gabb, L'dinis vioorei Gabl), Corfudinu armigerd Gabl), 

 Pteroj/ais connidi Dana, Corbula cUdrichi, var. .*mithvinensi>t Harri;^, 

 C. fexana Gabb, C. alabmnensU lje&, Deiitalium minutldrjiditm 

 Gabb, Deid'dium itiiiudidriidum Gabb, var. dumblei, n. var., 

 Venericnrdia jdanicusta Lam, Cytherea toniudonis Harris, C. bastru- 

 j>eii.iii.i Harris, Fasus mortimi var. morfoiiojish Gabb, Phos texiDui 

 ( labb var., Distoriio .iej/teindeididu Gabb, Tiibd nidlijiada, var. 

 texuiKi n. var., Solarium srrobirid(dum Con., S. vcsjiertinum Gabb, 

 Xidira itrahi Gabb, N. limida Con., N. semdiimda, var. jnidhinnps 

 11. var., Slytiretiis Ineonstaus Aid., S. dedlrls Con., Ptfndu (Fitso- 

 firula) Aid., P. ( Fusojicubt) j)eiiitn Con., var., Mesalia daibornen^is 

 Con., Turritelhi n'i.<tda Gabb, T. ditniblei Harris n. sp., Atiiria, 

 near zic zac. Bdosepia ii)i</itbi Gabb, Fhibellnm sp., TitrbiitolUt 

 jdiaretra Lea and Lnnuliten sp. 



4. Pale to purplish-pink clay tbiind 200 yards 



farther down Cedar Creek than No. o. 



Very few fossils found in this bed ... 4 to G feet. 



5. Dark grayish-green sand containing, in addi- 



tion to the greater number of the fossils 

 found in No. 2, the following : Plenrotom<i 

 ehUdreni, var. bU<>fa Harris, Canceliurta 

 panoiies, var. jmnpera Harris, (\incelhiria 

 ynnmafa Con., VidntU'dhes peiroKn, var. 

 indeidd Con., ('adidnn ^nh-i-oarcwdim Gabb, 

 ClinjifiidinniiH rntcrmjramma Gabb and 

 Stdarinm ucidnvi, var. mrt bmitin Gabb I 



G. Green sand witli lamin:i.- of clay containing 

 nearly the sanu- fauna a.s in No.*', 'i and 5 

 with Afta-oii j'liiii-ditnM I>ea and /*/. redferu 

 Gabb,'" ad<litioiial I i.. i; •■ 



7. Dark brown and |»nrplish-brown sand and 



'" I Irirrib M>i 




1-* I'H«K'I:KI)IN«8 ok TIIK ArADK.MV OK [1895. 



clay, liuuiimtvtl with Ibt^sils in t^aiul, to lud 



of crivk 2 i\'v[. 



The next si-ftion wi;st of this is i)U Caiiipheirs Crt'i-k, iiuar Duuii'.m 

 raufli and alxxit six jniK'S west of Wlu'eluck. This shows: 



1. lilack soil ... 2 to 4 feet. 



2. Brown sand with calcareous material ... 4 to .H " 

 8. Ferrutrinous hrown .sandstone and sands, 



altered green sands with C<>itiit< Hitiirideiix 

 Cou., Pletirotoma (^Snrcnln) <j<ibltii Con., 

 1*1. (Drillia) nodocurituiUi Gabl), PL 

 (Borsoniu) j)leiit(i Harris, AiicUla(Ollvula) 

 sfamineaCoQ., Osirea sellceforum, var. divari- 

 cata Lea, Aiiomia ejihlppioidcs Gabb, Nit- 

 culavuKjnifica Con., PxeudoUva veticsUi Con., 

 var., P. vetmta, var. fuslfoinnis Lea, Votti- 

 tillthes petrosa, var. indenta Con. , V. jtrc- 

 cursor Dall, Latiran moorel Gabb, Corbalu 

 texana Gabb, Venerica'rdia planicosta Lam., 

 Fiisits mortoni, var. mortonopsu Gabb, 

 P/ws texatui Gabb, var. , Dlstorlio scpfcia- 

 dentata Gabb, Sigaretiis declivis Con. , Mcsa- 

 lia daibornensis Con., Tarr'della uasiUa 

 Gabb, Turritella dumblei Harris n. sp. , 

 Belosepia aiujuUi Gabb 4 feet. 



4. Black laminated clay, enclosing Conns sau- 



rldens Con., Plenrotoma (Surcula) gabbii 

 Con., PL childreui, var. bilota Harris, PL 

 (Drillia) nodomrinata Gabb, PL (Bor- 

 soniu) plenta Harris, Ostrea sellwfonnis, 

 var. divaricata Lea, Pseudoliva vctusia 

 Con. var. , Volutililhes petrosa Con. , La- 

 tirus moorei Gabb, Vencricardia planicosta 

 Lam. , Cytherea iornadonis Harris, Chryso- 

 domiis cnterogramma Gabb and Ntdica 

 arata Gabb 2 feet. 



5. Inilurated green sand with Occalina, Turbi- 



iioliii jfliaretni and Eadopachys inaclurd 

 corals and in addition to the fossils found 




1895.] XATUHAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



in No. 4 Ancilla ancillops Heilpr., Bi/sso- 

 nrca cucxiUoidei (Jon., Pseudoliva vetustu 

 var. fimfonnis Lea, Volntilithe-'i precursor 

 Dall., Cornulina annigera Con., Corbvlii 

 aUlrichi, var. s)nithvillensis Harris, C. tex- 

 anaGohh, Dentnlium mUndistriatum Gabh, 

 Fmua mortoni, var. morfoiiopsU GahU, 

 Phos texana Gabh, Distoiiio septemdentuta 

 Gabb, Solarium scrobicuLitum Con., S. 

 aciitum, var. meeknnum Gabb, Pifrulu 

 {Fusofieula) texana A\d., Mesalia claihorn- 

 cnsU Con., Tttrritella luumfa Gal)b-*" . . I foot. 



('). Laminated fossiliferous blue clay 10 feet. 



7. Alternate strata of yellowish sand and blue 



clay, clay 6 inches and -^and from 4 to S 



inches thick 4 " 



8. Brown sand 1 •' " 



The connection between the.se beds will be readily understoofl 

 when it is stated that at least 30 of the 88 species found at ('amj> 

 bell's Creek are common to Wheelock and the exact stratigraphic 

 position of the two sections can be seen in a section on the Town 

 branch, south of the town of Wheelock and intermediate between 

 the Cedar Creek and Campbell's Creek sections. Out of some 80 

 species obtained V.i are common to Campbell's Creek, 20 to Cedar 

 Creek and the following; 10 do not occur at either: Plfin\>loina 

 (DriUia) texana Gtihh, PL (Dritlia) plrhoides Hams, PL (Mniiije- 

 fin) iiifinis var. Mr., PL (ScuhincHa) crassijiliatta Gabb, Tiirrindn 

 (Conomitra) texana Harris, Tcrchra amana Con., Pcriplnmn ml- 

 lardi Harris n. sp., Cinnlithes hutnerom, var. texann Harris, 

 Chh'ilifliry (Pdjti/lina) duiitoxa, var. irajtntpiara Hnrri.**, and Cnri- 

 rr.lla nulxnitjuUUa, var. rhernkcrngi,-* Harris. "^ 

 The section shown at this place is : 



1. Black surface soil 1 to ;i foet. 



2. Dark-brown gy|)se<ius cluv. \n\,<v of the 



Yej;ua sta^e . H " 



.8. l»rown fossiliferous s;uidstonc and bruwii day 



'■• HiirriH Mrs. " llarriH M^^s 




l-<i PKtKKKDINd.S OK TIIK ACAKKMV OK [1895. 



intcrstratified and coiitaiiiiii^r the above 



fossils 3 " 



4. lUiie laiuinated flay in which no fossils were 



found, to bed of stream 2 '* 



Small sections of a similar cliaracter occur on Elm Creek, near 

 Burcklov Station and on the Wilson Reid Hcadright, both lyin<; be- 

 tween Campbell's Creek and the Hra/.os Iviver. 



Along the Brazos we have proljalily the most important and most 

 complete section of these beds. To the south we tind them passing 

 beneath the Yegua clays about 500 yards south of the mouth of the 

 Little Brazos. Thence throughout a succession of bluti's we can 

 trace the Marine beds northward to their contact with the underlying 

 lignitic a short distance north of International Railway bridge, a 

 direct distance of twelve miles. The section showing the contact be- 

 tween the Yegua clays and the Marine beds has already l)cen given, 

 and the next section, that on the Little Brazos, near the iron bridge, 

 on the Moseley's Ferry and Bryan road shows: 



L Chocolate brown clayey soil, river deposits . 10 to 15 feet. 



2. Gravel 2 to 4 " 



'A. Laminated unfossiliferous clay 4 " 



4. Rale blue unfossiliferous clay 1 to 3 " 



5. Thinly laminated blue to black colored clay 



containing Terebra liouslonia, Harris, 

 Terebra fexncjyra var. Harris, Conns 

 Sfiiiridens Con., P/euroloma ; Pleiirntomn 

 (Surcidn) (jabbil Con., Levifiisus trabea- 

 fnides Harris, PI. (Siircn/a) moorei, Gabb, 

 /v. (Drillia) iiodocarinaia Gabb, PL 

 tcrrbniformis Mr., PI. (Manyelia) in- 

 sif/nljica Heilprin, PL (DrilUa) texamna 

 Harris, 77. (I)ri//!a) penrosci Harris, 

 AnciUa (Olivula) Htaminea Conrad, 

 Aneilht nn(dllo])Si Heilprin, Niiriila 

 inn(j7iifirfi Con., Leda o])nlenta Con., 

 Psendo/iva vetnMa var., P. vetii,stavar.fusi- 

 formis Con., Vohdiflthcn petrosa Con., 

 V. jtrcntrsor Dall, Latirus moorei Gabb, 

 Tfllhia iiioorediiti Gabb, DenUiliuin 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIII.AnKl.PIII A. 127 



mill uii.<friiitii III var. dumhlri Harris, n. 

 var. Venei'icmd'ui j/lanicosfa Lam., Dis- 

 toHio septf'mdentata Gal)b, Solanum 

 aheatum Con., S. vespertinum Gal)b, Phos 

 texaiKi GabI), var. Chnjsod<imn'< jxirbnizana 

 Harris, n. sp., Ntdica nmfa Gabb, X. semi- 

 lunata var. jnnthinops Harris, Pyni/a 

 (^Fi(Soficuhf) trxnna Aid., Tnrrifclla nasnta 

 Gabb, TurriteUd dnmblii Harris, n. sp.*' 



(J. Fossiliferous iron ore 1 foot. 



7. Fossiliferous green clay containing most of 

 the fossils found in No. 5 with Atyx. 

 BuUmelhi kcHoijii Gabb, Plrin-itfimvi 

 {Cochhsjiirn) eiigoiinfn. Con., /*/. child- 

 reni I^ea, var. biiotn Harris, Pi. rtiifrni 

 PL (}fH)ige/in) hifavs var. Mr., Can- 

 rlllarla forfi/ifica Con., C. jxiiKinis var. 

 smltlii'l/frnsis Harris, Bi/fiSDOiro cucnl- 

 loldex Con., Turnicula jm/lta Gabb, 

 I'orbiiln fi/iihiimriisls I.iea, CctdiiJns 

 Mitb-niarniatiiK Gabb, J'l/nimldelbi prr- 

 rxilis Con., var.. Solarium aeutinn var. 

 wrrkaunm Harris, Mi'slin CldihoriirnHis 

 Con., Ten bill fi .mf/ijni i\. sp. var. Harris. '^^ 



The next section is shown at Moseley's Ferry on the IJra/.os. Tliis 

 is the section referred to by Dr. Ferdinand Roenuir as being visited 

 by him in 1>(47 aiul which he characterized ius "consisting of 

 alternate strata of brown forrugin(»us sandstones and of dark colored 

 plastic clays, both teeming witli fossils."*"' The bliitl' here exten<ls 

 along the river a distance of about 1 ,o()() feet and is from 2') to 'M) 

 feet high. With the exception of the upper 15 fei't of Itrown sand 

 it is fossiliferous throughout. The fossils are very well preserved, 

 exceedingly plentiful and easily obtained. The dip of the beds as 

 shown in this blutf is between ")() and ").") feel per mile, but it may be 

 said that throughout this region as well as other portions ol" I lit- fil<l(!r 

 Vjoccne reliable dips are very hard to obtain. 



'■' lliirriH MSS. 



■'' .\ni. .1. of S<'i. Vol. vi, S«<<inil norii^H, IMh, p. '£i. 




128 PIUK'RKDlNdS OK TIIK A("AI>i;.MY OK [1895. 



Section at Mosoley's I'orry, Brazos River : — 



1. lirownish yellow surface loam laft'cf. 



'2. Thin stratiuii of fossiliferoiis iron ore in l)()iiltl('r 



form ....<» inclioH. 



.'>. Hlue laminated fossiliferons clay 3 feet. 



4. Fossiliferons iron ore. ruiniinfi^ under (he river 



about 100 yards helow the ferry 2 " 



Nos. 2, -S and 4 contain an extensive fauna, comprisinfj Lrrifii.'<iis 

 trahcntoidrs Harris, n. sp. , ('oiiii.-^ muriileiis Con., in great nund)ers, 

 I'/euroto)iia (Siitnt/a) r/abhii Con., 7V. {Coch/rspira) eiifjoiiafa Con., 

 PI. (Dnilia) nodocar'maia Gabl>, PI. tercbrifonnk Mr,, /'/. 

 (Borsnnia) p/enUi Harris, Ostrea scUivfotinis var. (livarirdta Lea, 

 Aiwmin rplilppioides Gahh, Byssoarca cuculloides Lea, Pseudollva 

 vetusfa var. VolniUitlies petroi^a Con., Volutilithes precursor Dall., 

 Tnrrlndn poliUi Gabl), Latirna moorci Gabb, Corhula texann Gabb, 

 Dcvhdiiim minutlstriatum Gabb, Dentalmm minutldri(dum var. 

 duviblei new variety, Venerieardia planicosta Lam., Ci/therea texacola 

 Harris, Cythercn toniddonlx Harris, Chrysodomus cnterocjramma 

 Gabb, /Vto.s texann Gabb, var., Distorlio septt mdentata Gabb, Tiiha 

 aidUjuata var., (tiitUjiKt new var., Solarium acvtum var. Meckaniim 

 Gabb, Sif/nretus dec.livU Con., Mcsalta claibornensh Con., TurritclUi 

 iifisKfa Con., T. diimblci Harris, n. sp., Pyrula (Fiisoficida) texava 

 Aid., and several corals.^' 



5. Laminated fossiliferous blue clay containing 



Conns sauridens Con., Plcxirotoma (Siircula) 

 (jabb'n Con., PL (^Cochlcspira) encjonata 

 Con., PL (Borsonia) plenfa Harris, PL 

 (Snrcnla) moorei var. Leviftisus trabcatoides 

 Harris n. sp., Ancilla ( Olivula) staminca. 

 Con., Pseudollva vetusta y&r., VolufiHfhes 

 petrosa Con., Denfalium minuiisfriatum 

 Gabb, Vcjicricardia p/nnieostaluSim., Lrda 

 opnlenia (Jon., Cyfherea texacola Harris, 

 DistoHio se])temde7ifnta Gabb, Mesnlla rlai- 

 hornensis Con. , Tnrritella iiasuta Fabb and 

 Behsepia ungula Gabb 6 feet. 



" Numbers 2, .3 and 4 arc niaiked A in Mr. Harris' lists; No. .5. R ; Nos. «». 

 7 and H, C ; No. il, I) ; No. 10, K ; Nos. 11, 12 and 13, V. 




189").] NATURAL SCIKNCFS Ol- IMII I.ADKM'U F A . 1 'ii> 



6. Fossiliferous iron ore 2 feet. 



7. Altered fossiliferous {.n-een sand found at 



north end of bluff 10 " 



8. Fossiliferous iron ore 2 " 



Nos. 6, 7 and 8 contain Co««x saiiridvns Con., Plcnrotoma (Siir- 



nda) gnbhii Con. , PL (DnUki) » ndoca r ! m 1 1< i Gnhh, PL (Borsmila) 

 plenta Harris, Levi) asm tnibeatoides Harris n. sp., Anomia epJilp- 

 jiloides Gabb, Pseiidoliva vetiista Con. var. , Latlnm moorci Gabb, 

 Venerirardia pfanlfoi^fa Lam., Difforfio .iCjtfcmdentafd Gabb, Tiir- 

 rlte/fit dumblci Harris n. sp., Jh/s.-ioarm ciicii/li)!drs Con., So/arinin 

 tinifion, xas. mcekanum Gabb. 



9. Green .sand, dark green near ferry, l>ut 



altering to a brown near north end, and 

 merging into No. 7, measuring at ferry . 5 feet. 



This bed contains Conns sanridrns Con., Phurntoma (Siircufn) 

 gahhil Con., Anri/lit (Ollvnfa) stmnlnra Con., Oiifrca se/fiiformis, var. 

 dlrarirnta Lea, Anomia rjihipploidrs Gabb, P.'^ciidolira vcfu.'<f(L Con., 

 var.,/'. vetusta, var. curinald Con., Iteropsii ronradi Dana, Corhiila 

 texiinn Gabb, Venerirardia planiroda Lam., Cyfhcrcaie.rncnla Harri.s, 

 FuKiiK mortoni, var. mort(>iiop.<i/i Gabb, Pliox fe.rana Gabb, var. 

 Diatortio scjUnndoifida Gahh, TnrrlleUu nasiita Gabl), and T<niii-'<cola 

 trapaqiiarn Harris n. sp. ,'' Tur/dnoliit phnrctra Lea, I'Jmlnparhy.t 

 mavliiri i Ijca and other corals. 



10. Thinly laniiuated blue clay, changing into 



brown near top, and weathering to a light 

 blue toward tiie bottom; the upj)er brown 

 portion contains fosfsils similar to those in 

 No. 9, and the lower blue contains occa- 

 sional cry.stals of selenitc IT) |ii-cl. 



11. I )ark, almost black, io.ssiliferouH sandy clay 10 " 



12. Thin seam of bia«'k clayey sand, jointed and 



stained brown along joint.s and on outside, 

 apparently unfossiliferouH . I fixd 



1"1. Same as No. 1 1, (sxtending iiiio iiver and 



forming a ledge in bottom of river ... 11 Iftl. 



Nos. II and 1'! contain I'/rnmlinna rlii/dmil Ia'U, var. Iiilnla 



Harris, Yoldia ilnihinncnKiH .Aid., I'.^rndo/iva rrliixln (on., var., 



■' KiirriH y\M. 




1">'* PIUHTKDINOS OK TIIK AC'ADKMV ol" [1895. 



Tellina monrenud Gahh, Venericnrdin planlcoata Liim., Ci/flicrcd hiis- 

 tropcn.'ils Harris, TurrHiUa naxutu Gnhh. 



The section next seen is at Nihiett shoals, ahmit a mile and a half" 

 north of Moslcy's Ferry. This section shows a (lecidcd ('hanj^c in 

 whifh we liiid from 12 to 14 feet of liL'nilic shales, sands and li^Miilcs 

 lyinir heneath in 20 feet of river loam. 



The next section is at Collanrs Ferry, fonr miles norlh of Moslcy's. 



This section has been descrihod l)y Dr. l*c'nropc as the Burleson 

 shell hluH",'^' there being no ferry at this place when visited by I'en- 

 rose. The section here given is essentially the same as given by him, 

 the only difference being the division of the upper twenty feet of 

 fossiliferous green sand. The section shows: 



1. Brown sand 10 feet. 



2. Indurated brown altered green sand ... H inches. 



3. Brownish-green altered green sand .... 4 to 6 feet. 



4. Grayish-green, sand 10 to 15 feet. 



Nos. 3 and 4 of the section contain Pfmrofovia (SurcMla) r/abbii 

 Con., PL chihlreiii Lea, var. hl/oia Harris, CanceUaria minvfa 

 Harris, OliveUa hombylis, var. burlesonia Harris n. var., Osfrea sel- 

 Injnrmis, var. divaricafa Lea, PUeatula fi/nmentosn Conrad, Pecten 

 ilt'shatfcsii Lea, J'inna sp. , ]ij/x)<ofirc(i ciiculfoides Conrad, Leda opn- 

 Icuta Con., Pseudoliva vetusta Con., variety Vo/iitUifhes petrosa, var. 

 indenia Con., Lapparia pactili^i, var. mooreana Gabb, Latiriis moorei 

 (labb, Corbti/a afdriehi, var. smithvi/lensifi liarns, Denfaliuvi viinii- 

 tiairiittum Gabb, I), minutidriatum, var. dumbleiYi.Qxr'\si\. var., Ven- 

 iricfird i a rotunda Liesi, V. alii costata, vox. peranti qua Con., V. plani- 

 coxta Lam., Cyfherea sp., C. fexaco/a Harris, ('. badropeims Harris, 

 ('Inviliihea {PapUlhm) damo.sa, var. traparjuara Harris, Fnsus vwiioni, 

 var. nwrtonopsis Gabb, ClaviJlthei penrosei Heilprin, C. hvmerom, 

 var. tc.rana Harris, Pleurofoma (Cbithnrc/la) fanna', Harris n. sp.,(S'o- 

 lariuiii Kcroblcu/fitiim Con., 8. alveat ion Con., Nafica semilumda, var. 

 javf hi nops Harris n. var., iV. newtoncnsis Aid., Sif/arctiis declivis 

 Con., J*i/ni/a ( Fiisoficiila) pmlfa Con. \SLr.,Iii)iie/la texava Harris n. 

 sp. , R. fe.rnna, var. ]>lana Harris n. var., ('ahiptrajihorus rcfafns 

 Conrad, Tnrritelln, sp., Belmepia vngiila. Gabb, Trochita, sp. and 

 corals Turbinolia jjharetm Ivea. 



•■» First Annual Report Geol. Survey of Texas, 1889, p. 27. 




189o.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'lM I-ADKI-I'Il lA. 131 



5. Dark blue laminated clay 6 to H feet 



(). Browu coal in river 4 feet 



This blutf extends up the river for nearly a mile and is from 

 twenty to twenty-tive feet high. The fossils are plentiful and well 

 preserved, although not so easily obtained as at Moseley's Ferry. 

 IWfrti fh'shityr.iii is particularly plentiful, in some portions forming 

 solid masses from four to six inches thick for considerable distances. 



From here to the base of the beds at the railway bridge no fos- 

 sils have been obtained. 



The similarity of the structure of these beds and their contained 

 fauna from the Angelina Kiver on the east to the Brazos on the west, 

 as well as the several isolated exposures lying in the counties cast oi' 

 the former, mark a continuity extending clear across east Texas. 

 These beds are also well marked to the west of the Brazos and at 

 Smithville, on the Colorado, we find another great assemblage oi" 

 fos.sil3, the greater number of which are identical with those found 

 on the Brazos and Wheelock. It may, however, be remarked that 

 so far as nundiers of several of the specimens are concerned many 

 of the species show considerable differences. Thus, Conns 

 aniirUhn.'f, although scarcely represented at any locality east of the 

 Trinity becomes very prolific at Moseley's Ferry, on the lirazos. 

 The same may also be said of Peden de-flnitfesii, which, though num- 

 erous at Collier's Ferry on that river is scarce in the east. On the 

 other hand I'linthdn fihiinrnfosd and S/iirorhis le/ihisfonui are abund- 

 ant in Hurricane Bayou an<l at Alabama J>hitr, although extremely 

 few of these have been obtained anywhere else. 



The correlation of these beds with the Lisbon stage of the Lower 

 Claiborne of the Alabama section appears to rest upon several 

 grounds. First, their stratigraphic position. In both Stales they 

 rest nj)on the lignitic. It is true the Buhrstone of the Alabama 

 section intervening between the Lisbon and Lignitic is absent in 

 Texad. Both <;oin|>rise a series of highly fossiliierous sandy and 

 clayey strata with glauconitii- green sand and sands containing 

 streaks and nodules of calcareous matter, much ol wliicli is ba<IIy 

 weathered. Som.- of tlu; bods are indurate(l into hard ledges of 

 brown or yellow sandstones, but brownish-greenisli and bluish-green 

 soil sands and plastic clays form the great bulk of the de|K»sit.x. Tito 

 presence of small beds ami de|>osits of lignitr mikI lignitic strata at 

 irregular intervals in tli«; Texas beds marks the most prominent dif- 




132 PUOC'KKDINOS OK TIIK ACADKMY OK [1805. 



ference bctwooii these beds mid Lower Clnihornc of Alahnina. The 

 presenco of tlioso li;jjnitic strnta in the Texas hetln and their nl)soiice 

 in Alahanui aj>pears to show a ditlereuce in the conditions of deposi- 

 tion in the two localities. The lif^nitic is essentially a marsh pro- 

 duction, while the others heloiifr to a coastal marine, or at least com- 

 paratively shallow sea, ami the occurrence of the two in connection 

 with each other would lead to the inference that while a steady 

 marine condition of affairs continued in Alabama, tlio Texas regions 

 were subjected at irregular intervals to slight oscillations during 

 which the alternate conditions of marsh and sea deposition took 

 place and the presenco ol" marine fossils in the lignitic beds appears 

 to show that these marshes were also sul)jected to marine influences. 

 The third reason for considering these beds as being synchronous 

 with the Lisbon beds iind partly with the green sands of the lower 

 or lignitic beds is their contained fauna. Heilprin states that of 

 some one hundred and forty- five species determined by him about 

 sixty-one, or upwards of forty per cent, are also members of the 

 Claiborne fauna of Alabama, and a few others also occur in some of 

 the older deposits of Alabama. He considers these beds to belong 

 to the C'laibornian or typical IMiddle Eocene of the gulf slope.''*^ 

 After the examination of a much more extensive fauna obtained 

 from these beds Mr. Harris arrives at the conclusion that they be- 

 long to the Lisbon sub-siage of the Lower Claiborne. '" Gabb also 

 arrives at the same conclusion in regard to the fossils found at 

 Wheelock and in Caldwell county, as he says " thev are all from a 

 deposit apparently synchronous with that at Claiborne, Alabama ; 

 one-third of the species found in the Texan beds being specifically 

 identical with those found in Alabama."'"'' 



The identity of the fossils found in the Yegua clays and Fayette 

 sands with those of the Marine beds appears to place these two stages 

 in the same age. 



These beds occupy a wide area of country lying immediately north 

 of the Yegua clays which form their southern boundary, and their 

 northern line may approximately be drawn from the Sabine River 

 a short distance north of Sabine Town in a generally northwestern 

 direction to the middle of the eastern line of Smith County. Turn- 



^ Proceedings of the .Xciflcmy of Nat. Sci., Pliila., Oct., 1890, p. 393. 



•^ Harris' MonoKr.ii)h of the Texas Tertiary l-'ossils MSS. 



■'^ .loiimal of tlic Acad, of Nat. Sci., Second Series, Vol. 4, p. 376. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF Piril.ADELPIIIA. 133 



ing west the liue continues in a west by south direction to near 

 Brownsboro, in Henderson, and thence south to the Trinity near the 

 south line of Anderson, and from there in a southwesterly direction 

 to tiie Brazus. Throughout the northeastern portion of the state 

 isolated hills covered by deposits of the same age occur in sonie oi' 

 the counties. These, however, are usually uufossiliferous and of no 

 great extent.'"' The main body of the beds occupies a position in 

 the form of an inverted V, being widest at its apex, where a line 

 drawn across them from Bullard through Jacksonville, Kusk and 

 Alto measures over forty miles. From this line they gradually narrow 

 both to the west and east until on the Brazos the width does not ex- 

 ceed thirteen miles, and on the Sabine not more than seven or eight. 



The dip of these beds appears to be in an inverse ratio to the 

 width — that is to say it is greater on the Brazos than farther east, 

 and gradually becomes less as we approach the Saljine. While the 

 great or general dip of the whole of these deposits is toward the 

 gulf they have apparently been subjected to pressure from the south 

 or southeast as in many places slight waving or undulations occur 

 that give the beds the appearance of dipping toward the northwest 

 in many places. These undulations are greater in the ])asal division 

 or " Mount Selman series," and pass into the underlying lignitic. A 

 very good type of this formation may be seen in Mount Selnian it- 

 self as that mountain forms the bottom of a synclinal trough. They 

 do not appear in the Yegua clays or succeeding deposits, and whether 

 they aflect the cretaceous beds or not is not known with any degree 

 of certainty, although it is generally a.ssumed that they do to some 

 small extent. 



The topography of the country occupied by the Marine beds may 

 be descril»ed u^t an elevated plateau rising abruptly from the i)buu' 

 of the surrounding beds to an average elevation of five hundred feet 

 aijove sea level, although some of the higher " mountJlins " reach 

 elevatiitns of over seven hundred feet. Thi.« plat(rau is so intersected 

 l)y the different rivers flowing across it and their subsidiary ilrainage 

 channels that it presents a much broken surface showing as narrow- 

 topped, stee|K<ided, ridges in many places and wide flat-topped hills 

 in others. This variation is chiefly due to the covering of the differ- 

 ent localities. When sand forms the |)revailing material the ridges 

 are narrow and the reverse is the rule where we find the iron ore 



■'JS<icucc. Vol. X.XIH, No. .-,71. |.|> -"-'-26. 




134 i'uiHi:i;i»iNas oi- riiK acaukmy «»!•• [1895. 



deposits ovt'ilyiiii,'. Wide " l»ottoius" and "second holtoms " land 

 frinuje tiie niaij^ins of the main streams and many oi* the hirger 

 creeks, and the whole How at very h)w levels, ol'leii one Imndred to 

 one hnndred and tit'ty Icet helow the summit making deep V-shaped 

 channels where no bottom lands exist. In many places, particularly 

 in the sandy beds erosion is very rapid and many of the eastern 

 water courses have reachetl and are now llowiiiiij in the underlying 

 lignitic beds. 



Throughout the higher grounds the surface is generally covered 

 with light gray or yellow sand <lerived from the disintegration of the 

 underlying beds through leaching or otherwise, and in places a light 

 scattering deposit of yellow stained quartz gravel occurs. These 

 ujiper beils su j)port a heavy cover of short leaved pine, oak and hickory 

 in portions of the region and wide areas in several of the counties 

 towards the middle of the district are covered with heavy beds of 

 laminated iron ore. These overlying sands and ores have been 

 ascribed to the quaternary by Mr. li. C. Johnson,'"" but the occur- 

 rence of fossils of the same age as the underlying beds within them 

 place them in the Marine beds and consequently of Eocene age. 



LiG.MTic Beds. 



The uorthern boundary of the Marine beds marks the southern 

 limit of an another series of deposits totally differing from these in 

 every respect. In physical structure, materials and mode of deposi- 

 tion these lower beds have nothing in common with the overlying 

 Marine beds. They form the lowest portion of Penrose's Timber 

 Belt or Sabine river beds and are known as the Lignitic stage of 

 the Texas Eocene. These beds comprise a series of sands, clays and 

 lignites and have an aggregate thickness of over 1,200 feet. 



The sands are variously colored, being white, yellow, brown, red, 

 gray or lilue, with occasional thin beds of black, often shading 

 into one another in endless variety, and, with the exception of the 

 dark blue or black and occsi-sionally white beds, present no uniform- 

 ity of coloration for any distance. In structure they arc mostly 

 coarse-grained with irregular deposits of fine-grained silty sand, 

 laminated or thinly stratified, massive, cross-bedded and frequently 

 interlaminated with clay. 



The clays occur iuterstratified and interlaminated, or as irregular 



** Iron Ores of East Texas ami Nortlicrn Louisiana, L. C. Johnson, p. 25. 




1895.] NATLKAL !sClE>X'ES UK I'JIILADELPIU A. 135 



(Jeix)sits, with the sands, and iu such positious are usually lamiuuied. 

 Massive aud stratified beds also occur iu luauy portions of the area, 

 sometirue^^ uearly free fruni saud, hut the greater portion occur as 

 sandy or micaceous clays. Pla-stic potter's clay and refractory clays 

 occur in abundance. In color they are generally dark blue, gray 

 and black, although deposits of red, Itrown and yellow clay occur 

 and frei^uently thin Ijeds of whitt.' clav ait: fomul aiiiouij the upper 

 members of the series. 



The lignites belonging to this stage aud liom wliich these beds 

 derive their name occur widely spread throughout the whole area ; 

 they lie in beds of varying thicknesses, from two to four feet being 

 most commou, although six, nine and ten feet deposits are by no 

 means of rare occurrence. Beds of even greater thickness have 

 been re|)orted as being found in well-borings. The actual number 

 of lignite beds existing in these deposits is not known. Six have 

 been recorded as underlying each other at distances varying from 

 two to one hundred aud twenty feet apart. 



Silicious and calcareous sandstones aud limestones occur at dif- 

 ferent portions of the area occupied by these beds, but the ghiuconitic 

 greensand marls so conspicuous in the Alabama lignitic are every- 

 where ab-sent from the Texas iieds. 



The lignitic beds have been divided into two divisions — an uppir 

 and lowur — distinguished chiefly by their structure and composition. 

 The upper or (^ueen City beds, so called from their typical develoj)- 

 ment near tiiat place in Cass county, comprise a series of laminated 

 or thinly stratified white and red sands and sandy clays fre(iuently 

 merging into one another an<l forming a mottled sandy clay or 

 clayey sand. The lamin:e generally do not exceed «»ne-fourth to 

 half inch but the white .sandy clay frecjuently expands to six or more 

 feet filling' pockets or depressions in the wavy laminated deposits. 

 In this pocket-form these clays liecome le.ss sa<idy and more alumi- 

 nous than when occurring in tliin .seams. The section at (^ueen 

 City siiows lhe.se beds to have a thickness of ti.') feel. This section 



IS :' 



1. ( iravelly ore, and lnoken pit-ces of nodular ore 



sandstone and .-and 



'1. Laminated ore and -ittid in fliin stial.a 



«' .S»;, 



.1111 Ti.l I Ut {>' >| I 




l.>6 |'H«K'EEI)INOS OF TlIK ACADKMY <»l'' [1895. 



3. 6lraliticil white und red stuul with whik- sandy 



clay ((^ueeii City heds) ()"» ieet. 



4. IJrown sand and clay '2.') " 



5. Lignite H " 



These beds have never heen outlined hut are i<nt)wii to occur 



at various localities iu Cass county. In Marion county, near 

 detlerson, anil in Harrison county these l>eils appear at various places 

 innnediately underlyin;^ the yellowish hrowii sandstone here fbrndng 

 the base of the Marine beds. The same beds are also Ibnnd at 

 Willow Switch near Longview ami Gladewater in Gregg Co.,, and 

 also occur near Tyler iu Smith county and at Wilkius' Mill iu {]]>- 

 shur Co. 



These beds are unfossiliferous throughout. Ts'ot the slightest 

 trace of a fossil of any kind has ever been found in them and they 

 do not carry lignite. They are, however, readily recognized, and 

 whenever present, are conspicuous from their clear, distinct, banded 

 appearance lying between the brown and brownish-yellow l)eds 

 above and below them. They have been correlated with the Carrizo 

 sandstones of the Tertiary west of the Brazos.''"' 



The lower lignitic deposits are very dilferent from the Queen City 

 beds iu mauy respects. These contain the dark blue, gray, i)lack, 

 brown and yellow clays and .sands, sandstones and lignites so 

 characteristic of the lignite group everywhere, aud form by far the 

 most extensive deposits belonging to this stage of the Eocene. 



Iu Bowie county, in the extreme northeastern })ortiou of the state, 

 lignitic clays and lignites occur; in Cass county the same deposits 

 show the typical structure at many places. A section at the Alamo 

 mine, on Sulphur Fork, shows : 



1. Sand and clay 20 feet. 



2. Gray clay 23 " 



3. Lignite 1 ft. -S inches. 



4. Gray sand 2 feet. 



5. Hard slaty clay 9 " 



(). Liginte 4 feet + 



In Marion county the enormous thickness of the.se beds is seen in 

 the artesian boring made for water at .Tellerson. Here the drill 

 passed through alternate strata of sands, clays aud lignites to a depth 



« Dumblu. .luuriial »n'<wU>i;y, Sept., 18»i. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 137 



of 802 feet, but without rebelling their hase. Three heavy l)ecls of lig- 

 nite and a uiiiuher of smaller one.< are t-aid to have been passed through 

 in the boring. In Harrison and southward through Panola, Shelby 

 and eastern San xVugustine we find these di'posits underlying the 

 reninantal Marine beds and passing under the main body of these at 

 niauy places. Everywhere throughout the Sabine Valley sections 

 showing lignites may be seen. A section at Robertson's ford shows: 



1. Gray sand 1 foot. 



2. Mottled brown, blue and yellow clay 45 feet. 



3. Lignite (> " 



4. Dark blue saudy clay to water 3 " 



Near Carter's Ferry, on the same river, we find a deposit of lignite 



si.\ feet thick containing trunks of trees from sixteen to twenty feet 

 in length and eighteen to twenty inches in diameter, partly silicified 

 and partly lignitized. These are exposed at low water. Near 

 Ij<jgansport a section of the river bluli is re{)orted to give :'"' 



1. Gray sandy soil 2 feet. 



2. Mottled yellow and gray clay 10 " 



3. Yellow and blue clay 4 " 



4. Nodular iron ore, nonconforniabU' 1 foot. 



5. Sandy clay 3 feet. 



G. Iron sandstone, irregular 1 foot. 



7. Lignitic shales to water 2 feet. 



Coming westwanl, the same lignitic sands and clays with more or 

 le.xs lignite occur in Smith, Wood, Henderson, Freestone, Limestone, 

 I.<eon and Robertson counties. Sections typical of the whole region 

 can be ol>tained almost anywhere. The sei-tion of these beds as 

 shown on the Brazos gives : 



I. Calvert liluff Section : — 



^ 1. Rrown loamy clay . 4 feet. 



t 2. Liifht brown sand . 7 " 



^ 3. Uruwn sand and gravel . 1] " 



4. Gray sand .... to 3 " 



5. Brown cf)al . . 12 " 



0. Dark blue clay 3 " 



7. I'rowii coal :'. " 



''•■'■ S«c«iii'l .\liliii:il l;< |ii.rl Im.iI .-MUNcy oI lix.i^. IMMt, \,. J.rj. 

 10 




138 I'UOCKKUINUS OF TUK ACAIHOMY i»|. [18D5. 



8. Dark blue clay same as No. G (5 I'eel. 



!>. IJrowu coal :> to 4 " 



10. Dark grayish blue sand 15 " 



■~ 11. Thill stratum of calcareous samlslouc ... i foot. 



"= \'2. Dark gray saud similar to No. 10 2 feet. 



_^ 1.). •IJrown coal, poor (juality U to inches. 



14. Dark gray saud similar to No. 10 ^5 feet. 



15. Gray calcareous saudstone 1 foot. 



10. Dark bluish gray .-^aud with iron pyrites . . -'^ feet. 



17. Boulders of clay irousloue and gray calcareous 



sandstones with irony nodules and thin seams 

 of ferruginous sandstoues with dicotyledo- 

 nous leaves 2 feet. 



18. Gray sandstone li " 



19. Laminated bluish gray saud to water . ... 2 '' 



A little over a mile farther up the river we iind section 11 at Bee 

 shoals showing the following beds Ijclongiug to the lignitic. Nos. 1, 

 2 and 3 of the section are omitted as they belong to the more recent 

 and river alluvium : 



II. Section at Bee Shoals: — 



4. Black or dark blue clay 5 feet. 



5. Broken seams ot brown coal •'> to 3 " 



6. Black clay same as No. 4 5 " 



7. Dark bluish-gray sandstone weathering on out- 



side to a brown containing broken plant 



remains 1 2 to feet. 



8. Clay similar to Nos. 4 and G 4 " 



9. Thin stratum of gray calcareous sandstone . 4 to (i iiiclica. 



10. Gray sand laminated and containing thin 



layers of dark clay 10 feet. 



11. Rounded waterworn boulders with calcite 



streaks 1 foot. 



12. Gray sand with pyrites to 5 feet. 



From this point to the base of tin; lignitic beds near the mouth of 



Pond Creek the beds comprise a series of gray sands interstratilied 

 with gray sandstones. These sands and sandstones cannot be less 

 than 300 feet in thickness. A .section at Gibson's gin near Calvert 

 shows them to be at least 205 feet. The following is the section : 




1895.] NATL'KAI. SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



1. SurtUce soil aud gray aud hrowu saud ... 25 feet. 



2. Alternate strata uf blue clay aud calcareous 



sandstone 42 " 



8. Brown coal 2 " 



4. Bluish-gray sand, blue clay aud calcareous 



sandstones 40 " 



5. Brown coal 1 ^ " 



6. Bluish gray sand 23] " 



7. Brown coal 5 " 



<'^. Blue sands and sand.stones 55 feet. 



9. Brown coal 2 '• 



10. Rod clay H " 



11. Bluish-gray calcareouH sandstones and blue 



clay . " 22 '• 



12. Brown coal 2 " 



13. Blue sand 7() " 



14. IJrown coal 10 " 



15. Blue sand with thin .seam.s of sandstone . . 205 " 



A well at Franklin, the county seat of Robertson, obtains its water 

 supply from these beds and is 1,20S feet tleep. This boring is wholly 

 in lignitic strata and chietly in the lower division. 



While there is no doubt whatever as to the stratigraphies position 

 of the Texas Lignitic corresponding closely to that of the Lignitic of 

 .Maltauia, both occupying positions beneath the Ix)wer Claiborne 

 and overlying the uppermost beds of the Cretaceous, there are many 

 roiiditious of di.-Jsimilarity between them that mark the deposition of 

 each to have l)een a.-^sociatcd with and made under widely ditferent 

 circunjstances. Nor do these Texa.s beds altogether correspond with 

 the Lignitic of Mississipi)i, Arkansas or Ivouisiana, although in the 

 csLso of the two last named States the be<ls found in the southwestern 

 |)ortion of Arkan.sjw and in the northwestern corner of Ijouisiaiui are 

 similar in every res|H;et to tlmse of that portion of Texas adjoining 

 them. 



In Alabama the greater portion of this sub-division is made up of 

 laminated clays and laminated and cross-bedded sands of a prevailing 

 gray color, ex'-ept immediately below the liuhrstone, where for 200 

 ft-et or more they are of dark brown, often purplish colors. With 

 the above mentioned laminated clavs and sands are inlerstratilied 




1-40 J'UOfKKDlNCJS OF TlIK ACAIJKMY OK [ISDr). 



st'veral IhmIs of lignite uiul soverul I)eil8 hulding marine lossils ami 

 usually cliaracterizt'tl hy the preseuce of glauconile or j;reeiisaiitl.''' 



Acconliiiir to Smith and Johnson the lignites appear to he more 

 numerous and thicker toward the west, while eastwaril ot" the 

 Alabama River they become, as a rule, inconspicuous and possess no 

 very well marked characters hy which they may he distinguished 

 from one another. Ou the other hand the Marine beds retain their 

 characteristic features and peculiar association of fossils, are easily 

 recognizable and may be followed with the greatest ease. 



lu Mississippi the Liguitic cotnprises a series of lignitiferous strata 

 with interstratified beds of brown, yellow and gray sands and clays 

 containing marine fossils and plant remains.''' 



These beds also occur iu Southern Arkansas at the Ouachita Coal- 

 mining Company's mines at Lester, about seven miles north of 

 Camden. Here the section show's heavy beds of dark blue clay 

 enclosing a deposit of lignite from (i to 10 feet thick. The higher 

 hills iu this neighborhood are capped with the red and white sands 

 an<l clays typical of the Queen City beds of Texas, and as already 

 stated the southwestern portion of iNIiller county belongs geologically 

 to the Texas beds. 



Hill describes the basal or liguitic strata of southwestern Arkansas 

 under the local names of the Camden series and Cleveland county 

 red lauds. The former, he eays, "is an extensive shallow water, 

 marine formation of stratified, micaceous, non-indurated alternating 

 lamin;e of sands and clay shales, sandy shales, thin sandstones 

 ((juartzites), etc.,'"* and considers them a continuation of similar 

 stratigraphic conditions from other counties of Louisiana, Arkansas 

 and Texas from the southward. His Cleveland "red lands" consti- 

 tute a fossiliferous horizon at or near the top of the Camden series, 

 and consists of the characteristic sediments of that series, but is 

 accompanied by extensive deposits of marine shells and greensand,'^' 

 and are identical with the iron bearing red lauds of Rusk, Cherokee 

 and other counties in northeast Texas. 



A personal examination of much of the Tertiary areas of Arkan- 

 sas leads me to very different conclusions from those drawn by Prof. 



M Bull. U.S. G.S., 43, p. 39. 



« Hull. U. S. a. S., 83. p. 67. 



'■•• Vol. II. \m\. liep. Ocnl. Survcv of Ark., 1888, p. 40. 



'•' <!uol. Survey of .\rk.. Vol. II. of 1H88, p. 58. 




1895.] NATURAIi SCTKNCES OF PniLADELPUIA. 141 



Hill. The hasal Tertiary of the repon while in its principal 

 features undoubtedly lignitic and in places correspond to the 

 Texas beds, his Camden series is only partially so, a portion belong- 

 ing to the middle Tertiary or Claiborne and a still greater portion ' 

 being of much younger age. At the base of this series Prof. Hill 

 has also included as Tertiary some beds of cretaceous deposits. His 

 Cleveland "red lands" are, according to Harris, of Claiborne and 

 Jackson age.*^' It may also be stated that in some parts of Arkan- 

 sas the Eocene is represented by a still lower phase than the Lignitic. 



In Ijouisiana these beds are represented in the northwestern por- 

 tion of the State. They have been dascribed by Hilgard*"' and Hop- 

 kins'" a.s the Mansfield group and recently by Dr. Otto Lerch as the 

 Lignitic.'' These beds are. in their main characteristics, similar to 

 the lignitic of Texas and along the State line in Cass and Harrison 

 Counties in Texas and Caddo Parish in Louisiana I have found them 

 passing in unbroken continuity. 



It would thus appear that the lignitic beds of East Texas can be 

 directly connected with those of almost the whole of the Gulf States. 

 A number of variations in structure undoubtedly occur between 

 tliem and the corresponding beds of Alal)ania and Mi.ssissippi, where 

 heavy beds of green saiid, carrying numerous fossils form no incon- 

 siderable portion of the series, and where the lignites are few and 

 poorly developed. In Texas the lignites arc very extensively repre- 

 sented by many beds of different thickness and make u\) a very fair 

 pro]K)rtion of the aggregate thickness of the lignitic stage and no 

 trace of a single deposit of glauconite or green sand ocrcurs any- 

 where. In fact, with the exception of petrified or silicificd wood a 

 few <licotyledonous leaves and stems of plants, all much broken, the 

 entire series of the Texas Lii:nitic is wholly unfossiliferous. 



If we follow Mr. Harri.«' division'' and restrict the Alabama lig- 

 nite to the first 000 feet of the beds considered by Smith and John- 

 son as Ix'Ionging to that stage, wc find constantly recurring changes 

 from [K-riods of low marshy coastal Hats, during which the extensive 

 bcilfl of lignitic clays and shales and sands were lai<l down to {)eriods 

 in which the abundant fauna now buried in the glauconitic fossilifcr- 



** <>co\. Sarvey of Ark.. Vol. II of 1«02, pp. M-110. 



•» Am. .1. of .S«i.. Vol. XI.VIII. No. 14-1. Nov.. isof). |. ."ijo 



'" Fimt .\miii!il K<|M)rl <m<i1. .Survey of I^i., |M7(t, p. K.'J. 



" (ifiol. mill .\<;r. of Nortli !,<>iiiHi;mft. \j\. lv\p Stji I'.iill . )^'i:. |> ii 



" Am. .1. .Sci.. Vul. XLVII. .Npril, Imim, p. 3<i.». 




142 PIKH'KKDINHS OF TlIK ACAHKMY OK [1895. 



ous green snnds fbiiiul suitahle conditions of life. Althoiif^h tliese 

 changes were such as to huihl up very heavy deposits of each class, 

 it wouhl appear as if none of them continued U)ng enough to enable 

 the contained plant life to accumulate a sufficiently large growth to 

 form anything beyond the merest trace of lignite. 



During the whole of this period only some seven or eight scams of 

 lignite have been laid down, and even these, with the exception of 

 one, do not exceed two feet. In the first 200 feet, including the 

 whole of the Hatchetigbee section and uppermost 30 feet of the 

 Woods Bluif, no lignite occurs. Below this we have some 26 

 feet with thin beds. Of the 140 feet forming the Bells Landing 

 stage only five feet of lignite are found, and these occur in three 

 seams, the upper one of which is 2 feet thick and lies some 75 or SO 

 feet above the other two, which are only from 6 to 8 feet apart. The 

 next lower or Nanafiilia section shows 200 feet of gray sandy clays 

 and cross bedded sand and glauconitic sands and clays with green 

 sands containing GrujiJia'.aJhirsd: About ten feet above the base, a 

 bed of lignite from 4 to 7 feet thick occurs and this is the only lignite 

 seen in that series. 



Throughout the Texas areas the lignite beds everywhere form 

 conspicuous objects in this horizon, although no attempts have yet 

 been made to correlate them with each other. 



These beds apparently represent a period when the whole coast 

 was made up of swamps, lagoons and bayous, the extent of which 

 will be best understood when we say that these deposits cover an 

 area extending nearly 170 miles from north to south and 200 miles 

 from east to west within the limits of East Texas alone. A rank 

 vegetation grew on the marshy portions, and tlie rivers of the time 

 having no fixed channels, distributed their waters through the 

 lagoons and bayous, and into them and over the low islands carried 

 their burdens of debris during periods of flood. With this debris 

 came soft clay, .sand, branches, limbs and trunks of trees, all of 

 which went to swell the accumulations already gathering and aid in 

 the formation of the lignites and associated beds of clay and sand. 

 It is more than probable, however, that the lignites were largely 

 formed from marine vegetation which grew where these deposits are 

 now found. The Texas lignites are remarkably free from clay, and 

 although trunks of trees, both in a lignitized and silicified form occur 

 in them they are by no means numerous and are exceedingly few 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 148 



when compared with the enormous amount of such wood found in 

 the overlying sands.'' 



With the exception of a narrow strip of country lying to the west 

 of a line drawn southward from the cretaceous border near Cooper, 

 in Delta County, and passing a few miles to the west of Sulphur 

 Springs, to the east of Emory, four miles east of Wells Point, be- 

 tween Mexia and Tehuacana and crossint: the Brazos about a mile 

 north of the Milam Falls County line, the lignitic deix)sits occupy 

 the whole territory lying between the northern boundary of the 

 Marine beds and the southern line of the Cretaceous. Along the 

 eastern border of the State this area has a width of almost 1(50 

 miles but rapidly narrows in coming west. A line drawn across 

 these l)eds through Tyler, Mineola and Sulphur Springs, to the cre- 

 taceous border on the Sabine, near the south side ot Delta County, 

 is only 75 miles and their exposure on the Brazos does not exceed 16 

 miles. 



Along the western side, these beds rest upon the basal beds of the 

 Texas Eocene, to the north they overlie and come in direct contact with 

 the cretaceous marls and on the east, as already stated, they pass into 

 Arkansas and Louisiana. To the south they are overlaid by the 

 Marine beds and altogether cover an area equal to at least one-third 

 (if the whole Eocene tertiary in the State. 



The dip of these beds appears to be gently towards the southeast, 

 but the undulations referred to in the Marine beds also occur in the 

 lignitic, making many instances of apparent return or northwesterly 

 rlips, and thereby making an effort to arrive at the actual thickness 

 of the beds through the measurement of the dip difficult and of only 

 doubtful accuracy. Fortunately, however, many deep borings have 

 been made at various points and from these we are enable<i to ol)tain 

 a fairly accurate measurement of the thickness. 



The topography of the country is simple. In the ea.st the higher 

 elevations are those points capix?<l by the lower beds of the overlying 

 Marine and which give the country a .somewhat broken appcarace. 

 Near the centre and westward the country becomes of a more uni- 

 form level. It is mostly covered with heavy growths of pine and 

 oak with m('8<itiite bushes along the Brazos and througli Roberlson 



" For connection between thvac iHsda nnd the CrotaccouH sec Science, Vol. 

 XXII. No. r^iTy. [)«•<•. iBt. lMi(3. p. 3(K». 




144 I'KOC'KKDINdS OK THK ACADKMY OK [ISBf). 



County. l*riiiric couditions prevail over some areuri but only to an 

 iucousiderahle extent. 



Basal Ukds ok Wills Toint Clays. 



Those beds form the lowest deposits of Eocene a^e in Texas and 

 rest direetly upon the marls of the Cretaeeous. They cornspoiid in 

 time with the Mathews Landinu;, Black J51ul!" and Midway s((etions 

 of the Alabama lignitic and Harris' Midway stage of the lower 

 Eocene. 



In Texas these beds are represented by a series of yellowish brown, 

 brown and bluish gray sands, yellow and blue laminated clays and 

 massive clays containiuL'^ numerous boulders of silicious limestone 

 and two beds of white fossiliferous limestone. The yellowish brown 

 sand contains numerous boulders of calcareous sandstones and lime- 

 stone veined and streaked with calcite and enclosing occasional fossils 

 and the sands themselves also carry a few I)roken shells. White, 

 limy concretions and crystals of selenite are also numerous in some 

 of the clays. 



These beds have an aggregate thickness of about 260 feet and they 

 occupy a narrow strip of country lying between the Lignitic on the east 

 and the Cretaceous areas on the west. Their greatest width does not 

 exceed some K) miles in the vicinity of Wills Point and gradually 

 narrowing to a point at each end. The greatest length from north 

 to south does not exceed 170 miles. 



The detailed information regarding these beds is meagre from the 

 circumstances attending their condition and the time spent in making 

 examinations. Their immediate contact with the overlying lignitic 

 deposits has nowhere been seen. Near Wills Point the upj)er sands 

 of the lower lignitic overlap for more than a mile and a half and on 

 the Brazos the contact is obscured by wide spreading deposits of river 

 alluvium and plistocene clays. The contact between the basal beds 

 and the Cretaceous marls appears al)out four miles west of Elmo. 

 In this region the dark blue laminated clays of the lowest Eocene 

 rests upon the bluish weathering yellow marls of the Cretaceous 

 Ponderosa beds. The section at this point shows : 



1. Brownish gray sands containing boulders of 

 limestone with thin seams of calcite and 

 occasional broken shells 25 feet. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 145 



2. Thinly laminated dark blue clays with broken 



bivalve shells in the upper division and 

 occasional nodules of limestone 80 " 



3. Yellow Ponderosa marls forming the highest 



Cretaceous bed at this place — 



The contact between these beds and the underlying Cretaceous as 

 seen in the lirazos river section presents a section of: 



1. River alluvium 4 feet. 



2. Gravel 1 foot. 



8. Blue clay and sand breaking into nodules and 



conchoidal pieces, weathering into a grayish 

 yellow and containing CuculUva marrodoutft 

 Whitf. , Yolditi rborea Conrad, Veneri- 

 cnrdift iilficoMa Con., var. , CnhjiifroplKtrxu* 

 ve/itf IIS Coll., Cirit hi inn sp., iCrassatc/ln sp., 

 A]>]>orJiiii< fjracUix Aid., and Oi<frea 

 piihiskensis Harris'^ 5 feot. 



4. Transitional 1)1 ue clay 1 loot. 



5. Massive blue clay with JJaculites and other 



Cretaceous fossils 14 feet. 



Al)ont !)() feet above the base as seen at Elmo in Kaufinaii county 

 there are two beds of limestone, the ujiper one measuring eiglit feet 

 and the lower ten feet in thickness. These are separated by two feet 

 of brown -and. These limestones are highly fo.-;siliferous containing 

 such fossils as ('iiciillnn VKicroihniln Whitf., Voierimrdia n/flrosfn 

 (Jon., var., Vcnericardht planlcoitu J.<am., Crassidella {Midway sp.,) 

 Cytheren sp., I'l/ni/a (Fnsojiriihi) var. I'sciidoflva nnicarimita Aid., 

 I'll iirotoinn ( I'Iciii'otnmelhi) iiuni-oiiii Harris, n. sp. , Oslren /ni/nsk- 

 rn.^is Harris and TnrrHi'lIn sp. 



These two beds are seen al>out a mile north of ICbno in the follow- 

 ing section : 



1. White fossililerous limeslone . . H feet. 



2. I>rown sand 2 " 



i. i.imestone same as No. 1 . 10 " 



4. Dark bluish gray .Muiid .'lO " 



At Kockv Cedar onlv the upper bed is seen and is here 20 feet 

 thick. 



" lliirris M.SS. 




l-4() PKOCKKPINOS OF THK ACAORMY OF [1895. 



Wlu'ther tlu'so limestones form a connected hed tliroiiirliout tlie 

 whole lenirth of" tho Jirea is not known. They occur uhoiit twelve 

 miles further south nt Kemp where they coiitiiiu Ciicit/iita marrn- 

 lioiitd Whitf, (\iiherea sp., TitrrHella (i/tilimnciisis v:ir. jtrciihilnt 

 Con., and Mesa/la (tfubaiiiciisin Whitf."' 



In the vicinity of Tohuacana, Limestone county, these limestone 

 hods ajiain niake their appearance with an increased thickness. Here 

 the hods form the surface over con.sidcirahlc areas and arc underlaid 

 hy n hmwni.-h gray sand presenting the following section : 



1. Whitish to grayisli white limestone containing 



()4rea afahametisis Lea., Vohiti/lthcs sj)., 

 Venericardia p/anicosia Lam., Cyfherca sp. , 

 McMtlia nfabamensis var. medrla n. v. 

 Harris, Tiirritel/a muHUirn Whitf., and 

 T. altil>a)iiei)sis var 40 feet. 



2. Brownish gray sand changing to a brown near 



base — 



8. Black shaly clay (Cretaceous) — 



Those limestones are again seen at Hornhill in the same county 



where they carry practically the same fauna and the lirazos section 

 is seen in the following: 



(a.) Section at Oyster Bluff (Penrose), Two Miles Above Mouth of 

 Pond Creek : — 



1. River alluvium 4 feet. 



2. Conglomerate 2 " 



3. Coarse conglomerate with boulders 1 i to 2 " 



4. Thinly stratified yellowish gray clay, sand and 



blue clay with occasional rounded boulders 



of calcareous sandstone 10 " 



5. Blue laminated clay, fossiliferous 4 " 



0. Thin bed of nodules and hard fossiliferous lime- 

 stone 1 foot. 



7. Thinly laminated gray clay and sand .... 3 feet. 



H. Bluish gray sand 1 foot. 



9. Thinly laminated dark blue clay and sand . . 3 feet. 

 10. Dark blue laminated and fossiliferous sand . . 2 " 



The fauna belonging to this section comprise Ostrea j/rtecomjiressiros- 



« Harris MSS. 




189.").] XATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 147 



/;•'/ Har., Ci/therea, Xatica, Cerithiiun irJiltfirfdi Heilprin, Pseudo/irn 

 osfrariij)is Harris, n. sp. P. ostranijn.i Harris, n. var., I'Ksn.'i 

 o.ifrariipis, Harris, n. sp., Pleurnioma (Pleurotomella) anacona 

 Harris n. sp. , PL (Sarntla) o.'*/mrM/n'.s Harris n. sp. , Cerifhinm 

 ]/e)irf)srlllaTr\s,n.sp.,Tef/!)ia (Lrda) mifamen.^is Harris large variety, 

 n. sp., and fjethi tnS/nmeii.^ls Harris."'' These fossils occur almost 

 altogether in the beds of blue clay. 



The section shown at this place is probably the uppermost beds 

 belonging to the Basal chiys and No. 4 may represent a transition 

 bed between these and tlie overlying lignitic, as it partakes of some 

 of the character of lu)th stages. The nearest known lignitic beds in 

 the river section are at the mouth of Pond Creek, two miles below, 

 but occur away from the river on both sides much nearer than this, 

 although no actual contact can be seen : 



(b. ) Section on ('. Criblts League, Between Two and Three Miles 

 Above (a.) : — 



1. Brown sand and gravel 2 feet. 



2. Yellow clay 4 " 



•I. Ledge of siiicious limestone, fossiliferous . . 2 " 



4. Yellow clay sanie as No. 2 o " 



5. Limestone same as No. 8 2 " 



(>. Dark blue laminated clay showing lines of 



lamination on weathering 80 to 35 " 



The fossils obtained from this locality end»race ('iicnlhtit ttincrn- 

 doiiln Whitf , Yoldiii 1 1,0 red (.'onrad, VohdUilhrx riKjtiln Conrad, 

 \'ener Irani In a/firoxtn var. ("onrad, Cnhjjiirdjiliorux rc/ntiis ('onrad, 

 Siiciilii imifjnlfira G)nra(l, Crnnsali //a h.iiucdiji Harris, n. sp., Fh.'^iih 

 o.ifrnriijtin Harris, n. sp. , Dcnta/imn sp., Turrifrlhi »/o>7o/j/ Conrad, 

 var., Oxlrrii jni/iinkcrudu Harris, and Liicinii.'' These fossils mostly 

 occur in the limestone ledges which here, although much altered in 

 texture ami a|»pearance, evidently represent the two be<ls found at 

 Elmo aufl 1)11 iiocky Cedar. The limestones here and at tiie m-xl 

 section above are soft and ea.sily Itroken, of a brownish gray appear- 

 ance on the outside but are grayish blue in the interior. They have 

 a tendency to break up and assume a nodular form. 



'• Harris M8H. " Itftrrk M.«W 




14.*> IMJOCKK.niNOS OK TIIK ACAUKMY OK [IHOf). 



Unit' :i mile holow the contact of the Cretaceous and at the io<tt of 

 lilue Sliouls \vc have another section : 



(c.) Section at foot of JJlue Shoals Half a Mile Below Tertiary — 

 (■retaceous Contact on lirazos Kiver : — 



1. l>ro\vn sand river alluvium 10 feet. 



2. Blue indurated day with boulders of limestone 



containing Ostrai jmln^kensis Harris, and 



other fossils 5 " 



3. Laminated 1)1 ue almost black fossil iferons clay 



with thin seam of indurated clay on top . . 4 " + 



The fossils obtained here with the addition of Tiirritelln 

 altibamensiK Whitf., Pecfcii nlnbamensis Aldr. , and a species of 

 Crriihliim are the same as those occurring in (b. ) a few miles down 

 the river and most of them occur at the Tertiary-Cretaceous contact 

 half a mile farther up. These have already been shown. 



These beds as shown in the river section undulate to such a degree 

 that many of them dip sharply and pass beneath the river level only 

 to rise again in some small exposures farther down. These undula- 

 tions are not uniform in their length as the usual condition appears 

 to be a long gentle slope, succeeded by a sharply abrupt descent 

 which is represented in a much slower rise where the same beds 

 appear again. On this account we have two different rates of dip 

 towards the southeast with one towanls the northwest, although the 

 whole series htts a gentle slope or hnvering towards the southeast; 

 That is, the farther we go up the river the longer and higher the 

 folds become. 



These beds have been traced westward in Falls and oNIilam counties 

 for some distance ])y Messrs. Taff and Stone of the Texas Geological 

 Survey. They do not, however, appear to occur anywhere along the 

 Cretaceous border east of Hopkins county. At least they are not 

 known in that region nor do they appear to be known anywhere east 

 as far a.s Rock port near Malvern and near Alexander Station on the 

 St. Louis and Iron Mountain Railroad in Arkansas, where a small 

 outcrop of the limestone belonging to them appears carrying Ostrm 

 /iii/nsketisis Harris, and some other fossils of the .same age. 



Whether these beds ever formed a continuous belt along the 

 cretaceous border through this region and that this belt has long 




1895.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 14 9 



siuce been eroded and carried off, or whether they are covered up hy 

 the overlappiug of the hiter beds we have as yet no evidence to otier, 

 but if they occupy the same relative position here as in the west, then 

 the presumption is that they never existed and that' they occupy a 

 very minor position in the Tertiary scale and were only laid down 

 in isolated positions, and, while dili'ering materially from the great 

 body of the liguitic, should be considered as the equivalent in time at 

 least, to a portion of the basal deposits of that stage. No lignites 

 occur in them and they appear to be at least partly of marine origin. 



Mr. Harris has classed the Matthews Landing marls. Black IJliiff 

 clays and Midway clay and Limestone of the Alabama Lignitic 

 under the single title of " Midway." In this the Texas Survey has 

 followed Mr. Harris and whetlier the Texas beds will atlmit of the 

 threefold division made in Alabama, or, if so, where the lines of 

 separation are to be drawn our present information will not allow a 

 definite settlement of the question. As it ai)pear.s at present these 

 beds can be correlated only with the last two, Black Bluff and 

 Midway. The clays and limestones with their contained fossils as 

 found on the Brazos and in the ueiglil)orhood of Elmo and Wills 

 Point correspond closely to these divisions but whether the gray 

 sands and sandy clays with their boulders of calcareous .sandstones 

 can be correlated with the Mathews Landing, the proof is at present 

 deficient. 



These beds, unlike tlie lignitic, cannot be traced continuously 

 across the intervening States. They are not continuous in Texas 

 and only appear a.s isolated deposits of generally small extent in 

 Arkansas, and Smith seems to think the " Flatwood " in Mississippi 

 belong to the same age. 



The country occu|)ied by the Basal beds in Texas is generally 

 u(i<lulating, ami prairie-like con<lilions prevail throughout the 

 northern portion. Towards the .south the prairies are broken l)y 

 growths of dwarf m;;squite which is faat covering the whole area. 



KiCSUMi: OK Hl.STOKY. 



The close of ti>e Cretaceous in the East Texas region found (lie 

 physiographie conditions of the cna.-t line much the sanie as \vt; tind 

 them along the present shore. The coastal plain comprised ii series 

 of clays in places, giving place to sands in others. Nowhere were 

 any of the harder limestones of the upper cretaceoue .seen. This 




150 PKOfKKDlNUS OK TlIK A('AI)K,MY OK [1895. 



crL'tareous shore lino iiniloiil>tedly stood ut a sslif^'lillv liiLdicielevntiou 

 au(J extemled many luile.s to tlio southward ol' wlierc wo uow liud its 

 outcroppiugs. Tlie "islauds" or isolated patches of beds belonging 

 to that age, found in the salines of Sniitli, Vanzandt and An<U'rHon 

 Counties then formed an integral portion of the uppermost cretace- 

 ous beds. -In front of this line and extending from 75 to 100 miles 

 still farther south and seaward, there was a su])eoastal plain or sub- 

 merged {tlateau lying at no great de[)tli below the waters of the gulf 

 and probably more or less subject to exposure at low tide. 



With the exception of tlie Brazos and Trinity Rivers no large 

 streams l)roke the coast line but numerous smaller water courses, cor- 

 responding to such streams as the Angelina, Nelus, San Jacinto and 

 others, in times of freshets, poured their torrents of muddy debris- 

 laden waters into the shallow sea, covered the subcoastal plain with 

 a varied assortment of sand, mud, leaves, branches and trunks of 

 trees and (piantities of other vegetation and probably animal remains, 

 and iu periods of dry weather dwindled down to shallow pools and 

 sluggish bayous iu which their waters scarcely moved. 



Although the laud stood higher than at })resent this was essentially 

 a period of subsidence and deuudatioii. So far as we can see, the 

 currents must have set in from the soutliwest and the waters along 

 the western side of the tertiary areas were dee|)er and stronger than 

 those along the northern coast. A deep chainiel from 15 to 20 miles 

 wide appears to have been excavated along the eastern cretaceous 

 shore, cutting o(f (he cretaceous islands now found, and in place of 

 the deposits I'emoved, left behind the 2G0 feet of lan;inated clays, 

 sands and limestones now^ known as the "AVills Point" or "Basal 

 Beds." 



The presence of this channel and the subsecpient deposition of 

 these basal beds is indicated by the existence of the same character of 

 deposit sh(jwing a return, or nortliwest(!ni dip at several points along 

 the ea.stern side of the channel. This is clearly shown at Grand 

 Saline, iu KaMfman and in Anderson County. 



The materials fjrming the new deposits were largely derived fi'om 

 the destruction of the old. This is shown in the cliemica! composi- 

 tion of the two'" and besides the new or basal Eocene sands contain 

 many rounded boulders of limestone containing cretaceous fossils. 



" Science, Vol. X.XIt, No. 50.'), Dec. 1st., 1803, pp. tl'.n-.iOO. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 151 



The* sea then had free access to this portion of the shore, at least, 

 and the clear marine water meeting the mud-laden fresh water of 

 creeks and rivers caused the latter to drop their burdens with the 

 result of a deposition of a great depth of laminated days and sands,"'' 

 Marine and fresh, or brackish water conditions alternately prevailed. 

 The subsidence continued and the marine conditions becoming 

 stronger many of the marine forms of life gradually crept up along 

 the shore and we have a solid eight feet of limestone. 'A slight 

 change takes place and two feet of sand are laid down, again to be 

 succeeded by another bed of limestone of tiie same character as 

 before, this time ten feet in thickness. 



Following this upper limestone we have 120 feet of clay and 

 fnially 30 feet of sand with calcareous l)oul(lers and a few fos.<;iIs and 

 then another change takes place. The old channel with its sands, 

 clays and limestones is completely obliterated and a shallow, brackish 

 water condition of atlairs takes place, covering the whole area from 

 west to east with a totally difierent set of deposits. These form the 

 great lignitic series of this region. 



The changes that ushered in the lignitic stage l)rought about the 

 final, destruction of the glauccniitic sandy portion of the upper cre- 

 taceous, completed the isolation of the cretaceous islands and laid 

 down great beds of sand along the whole coast. Owing to ex- 

 tensive overlapping of the newer members of the series, the base of 

 tliese beds is .seldom seen but wherever sufficiently deep exposures 

 occur the ba.sal porticjn of these lignitic (k'|)osits are found to be 

 made up of coarse bluish-gray, to gray, saml with occasional in- 

 teratratified strata of indurated sand or soft sandstone, more or less 

 calcareous, and at wiile intervals these deposits are interstratitied 

 with thin strata of biininated clay. In th(! Brazos Kiver section 

 tlie.se dej)osits have a tiiickness of about .'JOO ft-ct, but they become 

 thinner as they extend eastward and westward from this line. In 

 the northeastern |)ortion of the .Slate these sautis rest directly upon 

 tlie cretaceous and are very much thinner and have a thickness of 

 probably not more than 50 feet. 



The conditions br<;tiglit about by these changes appear to have 

 been inimical to animal life, or at lea.'^t to the pre.^^ervation of its 

 remains. Nowhere within the whole region has a solitary individual 



" (ieikie's Text l;<)«k of (ieoloKy.Sccunil e<liti(>ii, ji. '.i.V>. 




ir)2 lM{OCKKI»IN(lS OV rilK ACADKMV Ol' [1895. 



t()8.sil l)een t'nuiul and i-ven tlie lii,aiiU' so pliMitiriil in llu; u|ij)i'r clayey 

 |)ortiun of tlu- lii,Miitic appears to l)e wantini,^ alt(tf;etlu'r or is ex- 

 tremely scarce. From this condition we niij^lit inler that tiie coast 

 line was tor a Unv^ time laced hy a hroad expanse of littoral sands, 

 over which the sea llowed intermittently and at irreirnlar periods, 

 and at ditl'erent depths, carrying with its waves enormous, although 

 irreijular (pjantities of sand. The fresh water streams, with the ex- 

 cej)tion of the two rivers, the Brazos an<l Trinity, having no fixed 

 channels spread their deposit.s over the sands to he afterwards re- ar- 

 ranged hy the succeeding tidal waters. 



The marine action being intermittent the sandy shores would 

 necessarily he exposed to atmospheric agencies for frecjueMt and 

 prohahly considerable periods of time, while the fresh water (h^posits 

 would he thin and witlely spread, and disturbed if not altogether 

 destroyed, by every inundation of the sea. Under these conditions 

 the irregular thickness of the beds and their indurated portions may 

 readily be accounted for while at the same time they would be ex- 

 tremely inhospitable for molluscan life and any stray shell that might 

 find its way into the region would suffer desiccation and be almost 

 immediately broken to a fine powder. Many of the bays aloivg the 

 southern coast of Scotland present the same features at the present 

 day. There we have a series of dei)0sits of sands and clays forming 

 the immediate shore line elevated from 7 to 10 feet above a broad 

 foreshore of sand, over which the sea only flows at periods of ex- 

 treme high water or during st(jrms. Immediately in front of this, 

 to the seaward, lies a belt of sand covered but lightly during 

 "spring " tides and dry during the periods of "neap" or low tides, 

 while again in front of this, we find the life zone or region of mol- 

 lusks. This is covered by every tide that flows. The higher grounds 

 are under cultivation and the fore shore is covered with a scanty 

 vegetation of samphire and other salt-loving plants. This strip 

 forms the well-known "links" of that coast. The two outer 

 zones are totally devoid of vegetation. The same condition of 

 affairs also prevails at the head of the Bay of Fundy, in Nova 

 Scotia and throughout many other portions of this continent. 



The fauna of this period must be looked for much farther to the 

 south and southwest where marine conditions prevailed altogether, 

 and when the sea was gradually raising up a barrier of sand be- 

 tween itself and the shore. This barrier, by closing out the sea, or 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 153 



the greater portion of its water and at the same time damming hack 

 the rivers allowed the fresh water to gradually spread over the whole 

 area and form a fresh water lagoon into which the rivers and streams 

 ill time of floods carried great <iaantities of mud and line sand. The 

 deposition of these in the still waters of the lagoons gradually formed 

 the sandy clays found sparingly distributed among the sandy de- 

 posits. But as the whole work of the sea is an incessant building up 

 and tearing down, a period of storms or extra high water would 

 eventually destroy the sandy barriers and again the whole tiat would 

 be subject to marine influences and the deposition of marine deposits. 

 Probably the rivers themselves, by the washing out of the bars at 

 their mouths aided iu the work. 



Although the land had gradually .subsided, the sulisidence scarcely 

 ke|)t puce with the upbuilding of the sea and each succeeding inroad 

 would have less influence than the preceding, until a time would be 

 reached when the rivers and streams gained the ascendancy and then 

 would commence a time of heavier and more extensive clayey de- 

 posit.". Most of these clayey deposits are laniiiiated and from this 

 we may infer that they were never absolutely beyond marine influence, 

 however weak it may have been at times. 



At that time, we niay reasonably suppo.se, the sea had formed a 

 broad bar of sufficient strength to prevent the ingress of salt water 

 except on very exceptional occasions or at low points in much the 

 same manner as along the present coa.*it. No doubt there were .some 

 differences but these we are unable to point out as all evidences have 

 long since been covered up by overlying deposits or erosion. 



It was to this time we may ascribe the beginning of the dejwsition 

 of the vast be(ls of lignite so proiiiineut throughout the greater |)or- 

 tion of the area. I'rior to this no lignite ap|)ears to have been 

 fornicil :in<l none have been found in the lower sands, ll must be 

 rememlHircfl that throughout the whole lignite field the lignitis rest 

 upon clays and that these days cdntain great (juantities of carbo- 

 naceous matter in the forms of leavea and stems of delicate plants, 

 none of which (;ould bear transportation to any ureal distance. 



Many comlilions of origin iiavt- been as<Tibe<l to these lignitic <le- 

 |)osils. Some writers a.-sert " that these beds were formed as ofl-shore 

 deposits and the beds of lignite are accumulations of lan<l vegeta- 

 tion carried out to sea and becoming water-logged, sind< in heaps in 

 much the same manner as bed.-' are forming in the be<l of the present 

 11 




ir)4 iMtoCKKDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OK [1895. 



irult". '"* Dtliera, ii-rain, jiscrihe to tlie lignites a s\vaiu|) or lagoon 

 fortuation ami favor the tlioory that the greater jH)rti(tn of" the neces- 

 sary vegetation grew where the lignite is now fonnd. Dr. Ptuirose 

 attributes^ their origin in Texas to hayou's and lajroons on tlie coast 

 and jiays: ''8neh places were prohahly heavily timbered and year 

 after year the trees dropped their leaves and dead branches on the 

 nioii*t ground. Here they collecte<l and were mixed with dead reeds, 

 raos-s, grass, etc. As the trees themselves died, they alrio lay down 

 in the same grave and rotted in the same boggy watera as their 

 leaves and branches, until often a great thickness of decayed veget- 

 able matter had been collected.'"" Another theory might be added. 

 These lignite beds grew upon the exact spots in which they are now 

 found and are due to the swampy condition of the region, but the 

 material contributing to their structure did not consist of large trees 

 init rather of the growth of small marsh plants such as are found in 

 the underlying clays, that the presence of tree trunks in these beds 

 is largely adventitious and brought in during periods of inundation. 

 When the plant growth became strong enough to support arboreal 

 vegetation small trees undoubtedly did grow in some portions of the 

 lagoon but never to such an extent that they could contribute much 

 toward the formation of the great lignite deposits as we now find 

 them. 



To the tirst of these theories, that the beds of lignite are due to 

 accumulations of land vegetation carried out to sea, there are many 

 and serious objections. In the first place, we have the wide, almost 

 universal distribution of these lignite beds, their great thickness in 

 many places, their exact superposition one above the other for at 

 least six times, their general purity and the utter absence of fossils. 

 Passing over the question of the enormous amount of vegetation 

 necessary to be carried out to sea to form these beds we are con- 

 founded with the question of their superposition. In order to ob- 

 tain this we have to suppose a series of undulations of uniform eleva- 

 tion and subsidence with a uniform series of currents having equal 

 powers of transportation, extending through an enornious length of 

 time. It will also be necessary to suppose long periods of cessation 

 in the deposition of vegetable matter and during which great thick- 



•« Geol. Survey of .\rk., Vol. II, of l"888, p. 60. 



"' Geol. Survey of Texas, First Aimiial Report, 1889, \>. 94. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 155 



ness of sands aud clays were laid down. Another point nut satis- 

 factorily explained by this theory is the general homogeneity of 

 structure exhibited by these beds and their freedom from interlnmi- 

 nations of or intei"Stitial clays. Vegetable deposits due to drift ma- 

 terial would naturally contain more or less clay intermixed with the 

 deposit. And again we can hardly suppose tlie sea to have been 

 devoid of either vegetable or animal life. 



The theory that these lignite beds were formed from materials 

 growing iimitii while probably it does not explain all the difficulties 

 attached to the question comes much nearer doing so than any other. 

 As far back as 1828 A. Brongniart held the opinion that coal was 

 formed of plants growing in situ and in 185.3 Le Conte taught that 

 coal wa.s formed as in the peat swamps of the present day, but these 

 swamps occurred at the mouths of large rivers and were subject to 

 overflows by the rivei"S and occasional inundations by the sea." The 

 absence of river mud he a.scribes to a straining operation of the 

 plants along the margins of the swamp and quotes Mr. Lyell as the 

 authority for the statement that "although the peat swamps of the 

 Mississippi are annually flooded by river water they are entirely un- 

 touched by river mud. These favored spots are surrounded, par- 

 tially on the side next the river, by dense vegetation, which, acting 

 as a sieve, completely strains the water of its mud before it reaches 

 the peat swamp. The water of these swamps is, therefore, pure, 

 ancl pure peat has been (juietly depositing there for ages. 



According to Giimbel coal should be considered an inland deposit 

 formed in wide, flat depreasions of continents and also on low grounds 

 along the sea coast. Undisturbed growth of marsh vegetation 

 alternated with floods during a long continued subsidence might reach 

 locally a thickness of several thousand yards of successive beds of 

 coal, sandstone and shale. -'^ 



As alrearly suggested the sea had reached to a considerable dis- 

 tance south (jf the lignitic areas ati<I a broa<l but low sand bar, 

 broken in places, protected the sandy plains from marine invasion. 

 Erosion had begun work r)n this sandy waste and the ditlcTenf streams 

 Were being gathered into the courses they were subsetpiently t(» 

 occupy. This cause of destruction o|)erated rapidly, as it does now, 



~- ^iiinli-M.iiiiiii lii^miiiK.ii |»i|i<.ri oi Ki.s, i.|i. i:tii-i:i7. 



" BcitriiKc zur KcimtniBH der 'IVxturverhalt <l. Miiicriilkuhli ii. 1HH3. 




156 jm{(mi:ki)in(is ok tiik acadkmv oi [1895. 



and ill u com pa rn lively short period the chief draimifjc outlets such 

 as theSahiiu', Sul|>hur, Neches and the other smaller rivers had out- 

 lined their main channels and drainage areas. The Brazos and 

 Trinity rivers being already formed, enlarged their scope of opera- 

 tions, and here, we have also to consider the influences of the Hed 

 Kiver and Mississippi ilrainage systems on the coast. Fresh water 

 gradually spread over the greater portion of the regions and hy the 

 deposition of the loads of mud brought down by the diHerent streams 

 covered the flat, sandy country with a soft clayey soil. Irregularities 

 of deposition, accentuated by the irregularities of erosion and the 

 eternally changing conditions of the sand bars in the rivers and the 

 periodical flooding and low water changes in the rivers led to the 

 formation of irregular ridges of sand and the lenticular deposits of 

 clay we now find throughout the whole area. 



The damming of broad valleys of erosion by the sand bars at 

 their mouths formed wide tracts of marshy lands or lagoons and 

 these gradually acquiring a vegetation fitted for such localities 

 became the birth places of our extensive lignite beds. 



This condition went on year after year, periodical floods brought 

 into the marshes additional supplies of fresh water. There is no 

 reason to suppose there was a greater absence of the straining influ- 

 ences of the plants along the outer edges then, than now, and every 

 one can see this operation being carried ou in marshy regions at the 

 present day. The presence of small trees occasionally found in the 

 lignite beds may be accounted for by the fact that during the course 

 of time these marshes acquired a suface soil of sufficient density to 

 support a growth of such swamp loving trees as cypress, gum, etc. 

 These grew, flourished and eventually dying, their trunks fell and 

 were buried in the soft vegetation of the marsh. Some of them 

 appear to have left their stumps standing where they grew. 



During the course of time in which these marshes and swamps 

 were growing it is reasonable to suppose that many of the uplands 

 and ridges between them acquired a vegetation. Marshy plants and 

 bushes fringed the pools and shed their leaves and branches into 

 them. Stronger trees grew on the higher grounds and the whole 

 country presented a forest clad appearance. Such a condition is seen 

 to-day along many of the rivers. Sloughs, ponds and "cut offs " 

 are common along the Sulphur and other streams in the northeastern 

 portions. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHLLADEL.PHIA. 157 



This vast growth of vegetation implies several coiulitious of exist- 

 ence. The climate must have been moderately warm, very moist tiiul 

 the whole surface of the laud slowly subsiding. The whole territory 

 lay at a very small elevation above the sea and but a slight osciHa- 

 tiou of the laud was necessary to place the whole again within the 

 grasp of the sea. 



How many times these conditions were repeated we do not know. 

 That would depend upon the number of lignite beds, but as these 

 iiave not been correlated with each other, if indeed they ever can 

 1k', over any more than small areas, even tl.ese cannot be taken 

 al)S<)lutely as a chronometer reliable enough to indicate the number 

 of oscillations that may have taken place. 



Towards the close of this stage there came a time, however, in 

 which the sea began to assert its right of domain and to again cover 

 the face of the country with sand and sandy clay. This time is 

 represented in the beautifully striped or banded beds of the Queen 

 City deposits. The time of lignite making had come to an end ami 

 a new order of things commenced. These beds represent a period of 

 comparative (juiescence, and from the uniform thickness of the lamina- 

 tion and alternate banding of red and white sands and clays, appear 

 to have been a beach formation. How far these beds covered the lig- 

 nites is not known; they are only found as remnants of what probably 

 wasa very widely e-\tende<l series of deposits. Their northern boundary 

 shows signs of extensive erosion and their southern margin has never 

 been seen. 



The relative time of deposition of these beds could not have been 

 very long as the greatest thickness found anywhere does not exceed 

 05 feet. They probably re|)rosent a period in which the land lay 

 very low and Ojien to a long sweep of tidal waters. 



A slight change in the relative positions of land and sea again 

 i)rought df('|>er water along the Texan coast and heavy l)eds of sand 

 were heaped up and spread along the shore. A few of the marine 

 forms of life l)egan to ap[)ear. Among them we find some such as 

 \'tiienritr(liii filniiiio.iln, Tiirrililla sp., and which had survived 

 the changes from the ba.>ial bed.s up. This condition continued 

 until nearly 800 feet of sands and sandy clays had been depositf<l. 

 The faunal life increased somewhat during that time but <lid not, mo 

 far as our evidence shows, reach the quantity of richness ol' the 

 latter half <»f thi- jH-riod. 




l'')S I'KOCKKniNOS OF TIIK ACAUKMY OK [1895. 



About this tiiiio a clianfrc due to sojiio extnuioous causes oceurred. 

 Whatever the cause of tliis chan<:e may liave lieen it iiuluced a 

 flexinj;, or gentle uudulation, involving the whole series from the 

 middle of the Marine beils hackward to and including a portion ot 

 the upper Cretaceous. This tlcxing ap])arently hrought the long 

 period of subsidence to an end. The whole of the lower Marine 

 beds were brought to the surface and a period of elevation began. 

 During this stage the last 250 feet of the Marine beds were deposited 

 in comparatively shallow water and along a sandy floor sloping 

 gently seaward. 



With the close of the Marine beds the elevation ceased, and for a 

 long period the land remained stationary. During that time erosion 

 was working actively. The sea to the southward was cutting the 

 sloping shores and carving them in many places into steep cliffs ; the 

 rivers were widening and deepening their channels, carrying their 

 burdens of debris seaward and depositing them in the shallow waters 

 of the Gulf Here these materials were sorted and arranged into 

 banks of sand with muddy intervals, gradually filling up the 

 shallow shore watere. Again we find the marine waters being 

 gradually closed out, the streams gathered into sluggish bayous 

 and the whole drainage system disarranged. Fresh and salt waters 

 met and mingled in the bayous and occasional inundations covered 

 the whole region. Marsh plants, grasses, reeds and palmettos 

 gradually overspread the wide domain now occupied by the Yegua 

 clays. Again we have a period of slow subsidence and a return to 

 very similar conditions of life as those of lignitic times. The bayous 

 were probably wider, deeper and clearer than those of the lignitic 

 stage and life appears to have been more plentiful. The alligator 

 lived in the marshes and marine shells such as Telllna ntooreayid Gb. 

 Tnrritella nmnta van hoiistonia Harris, Nutica recurva Aid., and 

 Ni(r-ula iiKifjii'ifim Con., found a means of surviving in some of the 

 sandy deposits along the lines of the greater water courses. 



The time of depression continued long enough to dei)Osit extensive 

 beds of lignite clays and sands to a total thickness of 1,000 feet. 



If we might suppose a slight uplifting of the land areas to the 

 north and consequent tilting of these beds towards the sea we would 

 then find a considerable portion of these marshy areas submerged by 

 deeper and clearer water, a deposition of sands and clays going on 

 and a partial relurn to marine conditions of life. The newer 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 159 



deposits would be soraewhat unconforraahle to the lower and 

 submerged ones and would have an apprecialile quantity of shore 

 debris mixed with the cleaner marine sands. 



This is the condition in which we find the lower deposits of the 

 Fayette sands. These beds are irregular in form, wedge-shaped^ 

 cross-bedded and often lenticular, the whole indicating a deposition 

 in very shallow water subject to a strong sweep of the tide and often 

 affected by storms. The life of the time as represented in these beds 

 shows leaves, stems and trunks of trees belonging to low- lying, 

 marshy lands. Palm wood is plentiful while the stems and leaves 

 of the palmetto, rushes and marsh grass may be found in some 

 localities in abundance, showing that when these beds were being 

 deposited the marshy tracts of the Yogua clays to the northward 

 were still the home of such growths. None of these are indigenous 

 to the Fayette sands and exist there only in the form of drift material 

 ca<t up by the sea. Near the top of tiie Fayette sands we find 

 trunks and limbs of trees of !arge size, many of them even now 

 showing diametric measurements of over three feet, and although some 

 show a length of 25 or 30 feet the greater portion of the logs do not 

 exceed ten or twelve feet in length. Occasionally a stump with the 

 larger roots attached may be found, but this exceedingly rare. A 

 peculiarity regarding these trees is that they are every one in the 

 form of wood opal or in an opalized condition, vitreous and clear 

 when broken, breaking with sharp cutting edges and retaining every 

 mark and line of growth as it appeared in the tree. The outside of 

 the.se wooils is generally a dull white showing a jiroccss of decay. 

 This form of wood is peculiar to the Fayette sands and occurs 

 nowhere else within the Texan regions. 



The faunal life connects these beds with the whole series of the 

 Eocene .stages as shown in the Texan section and is ilecidedly marine 

 in every pha.se. Venrrlcurilin jihniiroxtd Lam., ('nhijttrojiJtDriis 

 irliihiH Con., Mnrtni sp., Dentn/iuin iiiinnlixtrintinn Gabl), var. 

 (himhfei Harris and (orbiila ii/iifrnmrn-KlM I^ea, as well as many others 

 represent the iidiabitaiit.s of this |M)rtion of the sea at that time. 



To the southward the laml wjuh sinking anrl the sea <Teeping 

 farther up over the Fayette shores. A deposit of clay wa.s being 

 laid liown which within a short time was destined to become the last 

 representative of Eocene times iu this iM)rtion of the world. These 




160 IMKK'KEDlNaS OK 'IMIK ACAOKMY OK [ISBf). 



wore the Frio flays. With the (le[)ositi()ii of these chiys the Eocene 

 of Texas canie to an end. 



Towards the close of the Fayette time there began a series of earth 

 movements the initial causes, or full eHects of which, cannot he indi- 

 cated or understood hy what we may observe within the East Texas 

 areas. Only a few of the results, and these are small, may be seen 

 there. Hot springs with an abundance of silica in solution appear 

 to have formed a predominant feature and silicious sinters form 

 extensive deposits through several counties occupied by beds of 

 Fayette time. To those solutions of silica we may possibly ascribe 

 the transfornuition of the fossil wood into the condition it is now 

 found as well as the many deposits of quartzite found in the same 

 portions of the State. 



These earth movements and the deposition of the sinter continued 

 through the deposition of the Frio clays with whicli many of the 

 deposits are interstratified and while we need not discuss the causes 

 of these movements here it may be said that the ultimate effect was, 

 at least in Texas, to elevate the whole of the Eocene beds into dry 

 land and this condition continued far into Miocene times. 




1895.] NATl'KAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



AN ARRANGEMENT OF THE RETINAL CELLS IN THE EYES OF FISHES 

 PARTIALLY SIMULATING COMPOUND EYES. 



BY JOHN A. RYDEK. 



The peculiar structure of the compound eyes of the Arthropods 

 has attracted a hirgc share of attention from such investigators as 

 Gri'uacher, Lanlvesler, \Vata.se, I'atten, CarriOre and others. The 

 peculiarities of structure of compound eyes are so marked that it 

 would he strange if they failed to attract the notice of student.^ of 

 morphology. In the vertel)rates the structure of the retina is 

 uidversally regarded as differing so widely from that of the com- 

 |)ound type of eye found in the Arthropods, that few authors have 

 been tempted to institute any very close morphological comparison 

 between them. I shouhl not attempt such a comparison were 

 it not that I have recently found that in the eye of the larval 

 salmon, Stt/mo sahtr, there is an arrangement of the sensory cells of 

 the retinal epithelium that is so regularly and definitely repeated 

 throughout the whole extent of the retina as to admit of no question. 



The observations u|)on which my statements rest were made 

 u|)on certain very thin .sections of recently hatched salmon larviv. 

 These sections were prepare<l for an entirely ditferent purpose, and 

 it Wiis only U[K)n casual observation that the peculiarities I am about 

 to de8cril)e were first noticed. 



These sections ranged from 2.5 to 5 niikrons in thickness, and no 

 doiil)t can be thrown upon my ob.«ervations on the score of faulty 

 technique. The specimens had l)een splendidly fi.xed and preserved 

 and were stained in ioto in an alcoholic solution of h:ematoxylin, 

 and diU'erentiated hi ioto in a one per cent, solution of j)olassium 

 bichromate. This method leav(!9 but little to be desired for clear- 

 ness of histological differentiation and sharpness of detail. Unfor- 

 tunately, it is only a very few .sections out of a comph-te series that 

 reveal the details tiiat are to Ik; deacribefl. These few sections are 

 the first three or four that were cut tangentially to the surface of the 

 retina, and that whieh is cut jii'-t through the ends of the rods an<l c<»ne8 

 ami cone-cells, at al)OUt the h-vel of the inner or uniler side of the 




1^)2 PROCEEDINQS OF TIIR ACADEMY OF [1895. 



hiyor of retinal piijinent. One, therefore, only obtains six to eiplit 

 sections in sci'lioninsx an entire eye; that is, three or fonr just as the 

 surface of the retina is reached l)y the knife, and ajjjain just as it 

 leaves oti" cuttiiiLr through the retina at the opposite side of the eye- 

 hall. In other words, very superliciai tangential sections oidy, or 

 such as are cut in a plane very nearly coincident with the bacillary 

 or Jacob's layer will show the regular repetition of structure that 

 impels nie to make a comparison between the compound eyes of 

 Arthropods and the retinal structure of the larval salmon. 



The first thing that strikes the observer in examining such sections 

 is the extraordinary regularity with which the bacillary portions of 

 the retinal elements are arranged. One notices that the rods and 

 cones form together a pattern of the most astonishing regularity. 

 That the rods are in groups of four or five, but that the cones are 

 much larger across and always in pairs, or of the nature of Han- 

 nover's double cones and united together closely at their apices. 

 These double cones are arranged in rows in two ways at right 

 angles to each other, like the squares on a chess-board. Fig. 1. If 



Fio. 1. 



one now imagines the rows of double cones to represent the 

 black squares of a chess-board, the groups of rods, which are 

 much smaller in cross-section, may be regarded as occupying the 

 intervening red squares. This is the appearance of a section taken 

 at the outermost level. Pigment from the pigmented layer extends 

 in between the rods and cones, and the distinctness of the regular 

 retinal pattern is thus greatly heightened. In the next section, 

 only 2.5 to o mikrons below the level at which the extreme regu- 

 larity of pattern just described appears, there is another pattern 

 formed by the rods and cones, which shows that the bodies of the 

 pairs have slightly separated from one another. The continuations 

 of the double cones of Hannover are now also seen to be less 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 16o 



tleusely stained, and while still showing a paired condition are no 

 longer in contact, and no longer have their adjacent faces flattened 

 as when united, as in the preceding section. One may now count 

 eight cone cells arranged in four groups, of two each, around a 

 single very distinct rod, Fig. 2. This arrangement is at first some- 



FiG. 12. 





what difficult to make out, hut it reijuires only a short time for the 

 oh.-^erver to convince himself that a regular arrangement of the rods 

 and cones also obtains at this lower level. This evidence conclu- 

 sively establishes the fact that every one to five rod-cells in the eye 

 of a larval salmon are surrounded by eight cone-cells that are 

 closely opposed or united at their apices into four pairs of two each. 

 At a slightly deeper level the bodies of the pairs of cones separate 

 still more, but traces of a regular pattern can still be made out at 

 a third level. 



I have stated in the title of this paper that there is an arrange- 

 ment of retinal cells of fishes that [jartially simulates that of the 

 retinal elements in the comjHjund eyes of Arthropods. This definite 

 l^roviso is necessary because the comparison between the groups 

 consisting of four or five rod-cells and four double cones in the 

 retina of The salmon cannot be exactly honiologized with the cell- 

 groups kn<jwn as ommatidia in the Arthropod eye. In the latter each 

 ommatidium is distinct from its adjacent felhjws and none of its (•cllu- 

 iar elements enter into the forniatiun of the (tontiguous ommatidia l)y 

 which it is encircled. In the retina of the larval salmon the case is 

 very dillerent and rpiite peculiar. Of any one group consisting of 

 five central ro<l-cells and four double cone-cells, the latter also enter 

 into the formation and form part of eight adjacent similar groups of 

 cells. Into four of the eight a<ljacent groups two duul)le cone-ceils 

 enter, and, alternating with these are four other groups into wliieli 

 only a single pair of the double cone-cells of the central group enters. 

 The comparison is therefore only a partial one. It is obviously absurd 




164 puocKKUiNas of the academy ok [1894. 



to siigprest the rompletc homolojjy of a group consisting of" the five 

 central nnl-c't'lls ami tiieir tour surrounding douhle cones in the 

 retina of the salmon witii :i single onunatidium of the Arthropod eye. 



To what extent a similar conilition holds in the arrangement of the 

 haeillary retinal elements in other groups of vertebrates 1. am not 

 prepared to say. Hut this remarkable regularity and repetition of 

 arrangement of cellular elements in the retina of a fish is at least 

 very suggestive. Blaue has shown that the olfactory organ of fishes 

 is made up in some cases of very small discrete sense-organs simula- 

 ting the structure of taste-buds and the small circular sensory buds 

 found in the lateral line organs of fishes. Ayers has traced the 

 probable origin of the complex sensory structures found in the cochlea 

 of vertebrates to a multiplication and subsequent coalescence of 

 originally discrete sense-buds or end-organs, that ai'ose in a way 

 similar to the discrete end-organs of the lateral line. The detection 

 of regularly repeated groups of sense-cells in the retina of one of the 

 lower vertebrates thus becomes highly significant. Is it possible, 

 after all, that the retina of vertebrates has been evolved by the 

 coalescence of very small groups of sense-cells that were at one time 

 separate and simple sense-organs, just as the complex olfactory and 

 auditory sensory epithelia of vertebrates api)ear to have so arisen ? 

 The arrangement that has been described appears to extend through- 

 out the whole of the functional part of the retina of the larval 

 salmon, so that the grouping of the cells is at least uniform in this 

 type during the early stage of its existence. This is a feature that 

 is in strong contrast with that met with in the retina? of mammals, 

 in which the distribution of rods and cones is not unifori|| over the 

 whole functional surface of the organ. If, however, there is any 

 truth in the suggestion that the retina of the higher vertebrates has 

 arisen in the same way as the sensory epithelia of the olfactory and 

 auditory organs, namely by the coalescence of originally distinct 

 but repeated, similar sense-organs, then the arrangement that we 

 actually fincl in the retina of the salmon approximates such a primi- 

 tive condition of structure, though by no means as perfectly as is 

 seen in the compound eyes of Arthropods. 



It may be added that the reason that I assume such a regularly 

 repeated structure recurs throughout the whole of the retina of the 

 young salmon, is because it is found that whenever the planes of 

 meridional sections coincide with rows of double Cones, the latter 




1895.] NATURAI, SCIENCES OF PHIIjADELPHIA. lOo 



alternate, in vertical sections of the retina also, and with the utmost 

 regularity with the single central rod elements. Such alternating rods 

 and double cones are met with only in sections cut through the 

 greatest diameter of the eye and exactly vertical to the maximum 

 thickness of the retina, as should be expected from the manner of 

 arrangement of the rods and cones, as seen in sections that are cut 

 horizontally through the bacillary layer and parallel to a plane 

 tangent to its convex surface. 



Max Schultze has fignred portions of the bacillary laver of the 

 retina of mamnmls, as seen from the surface, and one sees in .'^nch 

 figures that the cones are repeated at regular intervals, the more 

 numerous rods surrounding the cones. In the retina of the salmon 

 this arrangement is reversed, or at least is not so obvious unless one 

 assumes that every double cone in this form is supposed to be 

 encircled by ejght rods. In the salmon the cone elements are most 

 numerous; in mammals they are less numerous than the rods over a 

 very large portion of the retinal surface. These facts together with 

 the rest of what has preceded do not conflict, however, with the view 

 that the groups of cells met with in the retina of the young salmon 

 are fairly to be regarded as having arisen from a condition in which 

 such groups of rods and cones were more or less distinct and separate 

 as in the compound eyes of Arthropods. On morphological grounds 

 alone, it seems to me, that we are driven to some such conclusion. 

 No matter what convictions one may hold as to the utter untenability 

 of any hy|)Othe«is that seeks to derive the vertebrates from the Arthro- 

 po<ls or vice versa, it seems probable from the evidence now at hand, 

 that highly complex and specialized sense-organs of all kinds, includ- 

 ing, |wssibly, the retina of vert('l)rates. have arisen by the coalescence 

 of si?npler, smaller and more numerous sensory organs. That the 

 sense-organs of both vertebrates an<l Arthrojwxls have pursued 

 parallel paths in the course of their evolution seems highly proliabie. 

 The fre'piency with which specialization, reduction and evi-n appar- 

 ent simplification, in some res|K*ct«, of organs, in the course of 

 organic evolution, is associated with a process of coale.M'ence of more 

 nuuM-rous structures having the same fiuiction. is very stroiiL'N in 

 favor of such a conclusion. 



The single groujw of retinal elements in the retina oi Suhnu, com- 

 prising, as we have ."^een alntve, thirteen ("(^lls, I propose to call 

 retinidiii in contradi.stinction to what is met with in the .\rtliro|M)d 




1P(> I'ROCKKOINQS OK TIIK ACADKMY OK [1895. 



eye, where the siiiLrle visual orjjans are known as oiiiiiiatidia. This 

 distinction is a neeessary one in view ol" the fact that it is ()l)vioiisly 

 impossible to assert, in the face of the iiiorpholo^^'ical eviiicncc. that 

 there is an exact hoinolojjy between what are known as oinniatidia and 

 the cell-groups in Sulmo that I have called retinidia. I have ibund 

 it tlirticult to determine the exact number of rod-cells in the center 

 of the groups. As nearly as can be made out with an innner- 

 sion ,\ tiiere are five. At lirst when this regularity of structure of 

 the salmon's retina was noticed with low powers it was supposed that 

 there was only one rod-cell in the centre of each retinidial group. 

 The overlapping or blending of these groups with one another in 

 Sdlvio is shown in both Figs. 1 and 2, and this is the one feature that 

 makes it impossible to homologize them exactly with the onnnatidia 

 of the compound eyes of Arthropods. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIII LADEJ.l'JITA. 167 



THE TRUE NATUEE OF THE SO-CALLED •NETTLE-THREADS" OF 



PARAMCECIUM. 



BY JOHN A. RYDER. 



It is well known that if Paramccciuin aurelia is iiiirt or irritated 

 in any way that it will discharge from its cuticle what appear to lie 

 iiluraent^. Thi.s has been known for more than a century, for Elliot 

 in the Philos. Transactions of the Koyal Society for 17()9, pi. VI, 

 p. 150, gives a very good figure of a /*. aurelia with these threads 

 projecting from its. surface produced by the juice of the horse-shoe 

 geranium. Dr. G. J. Allman in Vol. Ill of the Quar. Journ. of 

 Microscop. Science (1855), nearly a century later, upon reinvestiga- 

 ting this subject, comes to the conclusion that these discharged 

 threads are of the nature of nettling or defensive organs and that 

 they are discharged from minute oval or elongate cysts that are 

 closely imbedded in the ectosarc just beneath the cuticle of the.'ie 

 organisms. Allman also concludes that they are not identical with 

 the cilia which thickly clothe the organism. Variwis reagents are 

 known to cause this discharge of thread-like processes from the cuticle 

 or surface of Paramceeium, but no reagent that I know of docs this 

 so effectually as tannic acid, the peculiar potency of which, for this 

 purpose, was first pointed out by H. Warrington (Journ. Hoy. 

 Microscop. Soc, 1884). 



Most naturalists who have written in recent years upon the 

 structure of the Protozoa have accepted Allman's statement that the 

 threads discharged by Paravucdum are not ciliary in nature, 

 Laiikester, among others, makes such a statement very positively. 

 Fortunately there are two ways in which to test the truth of this 

 statement. 



1. It so hap|>ens that if a pretty strong solution of tannic acid i.s 

 used these threads are entirely detached from the body of Parn- 

 iiurcium, if the reagent is allowed to act long enough. Endosmotic 

 action is al.so thus set up .so that the cuticle is lifted oti' of th*- under- 

 lying ecUwarc, which, together with the endosarc, now shrivels into n 

 disorganized, granular un\>.n. I'he cuticle is seen to be thin and to 




^^^ l'K(HKEDINOS OF THE ACADKMY OK [1H95. 



he very fiiintly slri:ite«l in optic section the stri;i' extending tl)r()u<;h it, 

 ami flost'Iy iipproxiiiuitod to one aiintlur. Tlu' cuticK' is sinootli and 

 entirely without cilia in this condition, so that a tannic acid solution 

 • euahles one to coin|)letely remove the cilia and also to separate the 

 cuticle from the underlying plasma. The tannic acid acts, in short, as 

 a sort of "depilatory," removing, apparently, every vestage of cilia 

 from the creature. The "threads" thus removed are very long 

 and of nearly the same thickness throughout. They are not much 

 shorter than the short diameter of (lie body of the creature, hut do 

 not taper as do the cilia. 



This singular behavior of tannic acid in removing ail trace uf the 

 presence of cilia from the body of Paraimrcinm has led me to doubt 

 the non-ciliary nature of the threads thrown off by the body of this 

 iufusorian. If these threads are not cilia why diould there be no 

 trace of cilia left on the cuticle after the prolonged action of a 

 solution of tannic acid? These threads form a dense mat of tangled 

 fibres in the midst of which lie the shriveled remains of its sarcode 

 covered by the cuticle that is now lifted up and everywhere freed 

 from contact with the ectosarc if the creature is subjected to prolonged 

 treatment with tannic acid solution. On Eiiplotes, Sti/lonchid and 

 HnJteria tannic acid has no such action, proving that these organisms 

 in some way differ very widely in their reaction toward that reagent 

 as compared with the slipper-animalcnle. This singular power of 

 tannic acid gives ri.se to grave suspicions as to the truth of the state- 

 ment that the "threads" developed by tannic acid on the surface of 

 Paramcecinm are something different from the cilia. In order to test 

 this suspicion it was necessary to resort to sections of the infu.sorian 

 in question to see if there really was any ground for the very positive 

 statement of E. R. Lankester and T. J. Parker as to the existence 

 of a fundamental difference between these so-called "nettle- threads" 

 and the cilia of J'aramocciuin. 



2. By the aid of a method of entrapping, killing and embedding 

 infusoria and other very small objects in paraffine iiiventerl by me 

 and fully described in the American Naturalist, XXIX, 1895, pp. 

 194-198, it has been pos.sible to obtain serial sections of P.iminwciifm, 

 in quantity, of a thickness not exceeding 2.0 mikrons, ,„'„„„ inch. 

 These sections so fully reveal the true structure of the ecto- 

 sarc that nothing further is needed to show how completely tnis 

 agrees with the view that t])e "nettle-threads" are nothing but 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 169 



greatly stretched cilia, that are probably e.xteiuled by some physical 

 action exerted upou them by the tannic acid that has both stretched 

 and swollen them. 



The ectosarc of Param'rchan is composed entirely of a svstem of 

 vertical rods of a plasmic substance that stains somewhat more deeply 

 than the endosarc. These rods are cylindrical and densely packed 

 together with but little clear plasma between them. Thev extend 

 throughout the whole thickness of the ectosarc and compose more 

 than four- fifths of its substance. They are so closely packed together 

 that their arrangement can very readily be made out to correspond 

 to the origins of the cilia from the cuticle. The arrangement of the 

 cilia is quincuncial, that is, in rows in at least two if not in three 

 directions, which correspond with the mode of arrangement or pack- 

 ing together of the rods of denser plasma of the ecto.sarc just beneath 

 the cuticle. 



The sections show that where the cuticle is intact and where 

 reagents like osmic acid or corrosive sublimate have provoked the 

 discharge of the " nettle- threads " there are no cilia; where, on the 

 other hand, there hjus been no di.scharge of "nettle-thread" there 

 are cilia present. Intermediate stages can also be sometimes dis- 

 covered, that is, partially discharged " nettle- threads " may be 

 observed. These facts seem to me to most distinctly prove that the 

 " nettle- threads " and cilia of Paraiwrclum are identical. No one 

 has yet seen these threads discharged except under abnormal con- 

 dition.''. Though I have watched these organisms fei-ding by the 

 hour I have yet to see that they showed the slightest tendency to 

 throw oH" the "nettle-threads" except when crushed, roughly 

 handled or brought under the influence of reagents. The fact that 

 few other infusorians have such a ilistinotly rodded ectosarc, taken 

 together with the fact that other forms are not affected in the same 

 way by tannic acid leads me to conclu<le in consideration also (if 

 the great number of these rods in (he ectosarc of I'nninnK iuni that 

 they are connected with the cilia individually and are pr(»bai»ly only 

 the expression of the same tliiiiLT as is seen in the roiMrd or striateti 

 ends of many epithelial cells that i»ear cilia in nniltieellular animals. 

 At any rate, whatever else can be established by a reinvestigation of 

 this subject by the aid of the methrMJs I have used, one thing is 

 certain, that tannic acid in solutions of altnost any strenu'th will 

 finally remove all of the cilia ami leave the cuticle smooth especially 

 12 




170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



if allowed to act for half an hour or more. My sections also con- 

 elusivelv prove the ectosarc to be quite thick and composed of 

 uniform, deeply staining rods that are packed as densely in one place 

 as another. The form of these rods as ti^'ured by several authors is 

 wholly inaccurate and misleading. For example, they are not fusi- 

 form or oval as figured by Lankester in his article Protozoa in the 

 ninth edition of the Eucyclopeilia Britaunica, but cylindrical with 

 bluntly rouHded ends. Where the collapsing vesicles ("contractile 

 vesicles" of authors) are placed there appears to be a peculiar 

 separation of these rods at their inner ends to admit of the approxi- 

 mation of the vesicles to the under surface of the cuticle. 



For killing and fixing my material I found that osraic acid and 

 corrosive sublimate gave good results, both these reagents acting with 

 such rapidity i\s to exclude in a large mea.sure the production of 

 artifacts. Staining was done on the slide with hfematoxylin and 

 Biondi-Heiflenhain mixture. Nuclei and food vacuoles are apt to 

 stain strongly if the staining on the slide is attempted with ha-ma- 

 toxyliu Very good results can also be got by staining the objects 

 in toto, as directed in the paper cited above describing ray method of 

 handling such very minute objects. 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPIIIA. 171 



March 5. 

 Dr. Samuel G. Dixon in the Chair. 



Twenty- five persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : 

 "On an Arrangement of the Retinal Cells in the Eyes of Fishes 

 Partially Simulating Compound Eyes," l)y John A. Kyder. "The 

 True Nature of the so-called 'Nettle Threads' of Parama'cium," 

 hy John A. Ryder. 



The death of John II. Redfield, a member, on the 27th ult., in his 

 eightieth year, was announced. The following minute was unani" 

 mously adopted : 



JOHN H. REDFIELD. 



The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia has heard with 

 deep sorrow the announcement of the death of John H. Redfield who, 

 in his unselfish devotion to its interests, has long been one of its most 

 active benefactors. 



Always an earnest student of nature, his last years of deserved 

 freedom from business engagements were devoted to his favorite 

 studies in connection with the Academy and to the arrangement and 

 care of the herbarium. 



The steady growth and admirable condition of the botanical col- 

 lection constitute it an enduring monument to his industry and zeal. 



As Chairman of the Publication Committee and nu'nd)er of the 

 Council, the same fidelity and discretion characteri/ed the discharge 

 of his duties. 



He was a man of strong hut tender characlcr ; tiriii in iiis sup|)ort 

 of the right, but tolerant of all Iwxiest ditlerence of opinion ; cheerful, 

 gentle, mo<le9t an«l cultun'd. Time was to him one of his most 

 precious iMjssessions, yet ho was ever gladly at the service of t host- 

 requiring advice or assistance. 



He was an earnest student, a wise counsellor an<l a steadfast 

 friend. His encotiragement Mn<l loving sympathy endeared him to 

 liis as.sociates who felt for him a |>erBonal affection which enables 




172 PROCKKDINQS OF THK ACADKMY OK [1895. 



them to nppreoiate the irreparjihlc! loss sustained l)y lii-^ t'amily, to 

 whom thi V would otl'or tlicir heartiidt sympathy. 



Mr. Thomas Meehan was appointed to prepan- a biographical 

 notice of Mr. Redfield. 



M.vmii 12. 

 The I'resident, Gknkkal Isaac J. Wistak, in the Chair. 



Thirty-three persons present. 



The death of Geo. N. Lawrenee, a correspondent, was announced. 



Paj^ers under the following titles were presented for publication : 

 " A Study of the Systematic and Geographic Distribution of the 

 Decapod Family Crangoni(Ux3 Bate," by Arnold E. Ortmann. 

 "Does the Delaware Water Gap Consist of Two River Gorges?" 

 by Emma Walter. 



Dr. Harrison Allen was elected to fill the vacancy in the Council 

 caused by the death of ]Mr. Redfield. 



March 19. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wist ah, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-six persons present. 



The deaths of Passmore Williamson and Dr. Elmore C. Hine, 

 members, were announced. 



March 20. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistak, in the Chair. 



Thirty-seven persons present. 



The death of Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger, on the 24th inst., in his 

 eighty-eighth year, was announced, and also that of John A. Ryder, 

 on the 26th inst., aged forty-three years. 



The Council reported that Dr. Harrison Allen had been appointed 

 on the Publication Committee to fill the vacancy caused by the 

 death of Mr. John H. Redfield. 



The following were elected members : Edwin S. Dixon, Willett 

 E. Rotzell, M. D., J. W. Horter, Harry Blake Tyler and Charles L. 

 Brown. 



The following were ordered to l)e printed : 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 173 



A STUDY OF THE SYSTEMATIC AND GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF 

 THE DECAPOD FAMILY CRANGONID^E BATE. 



BY ARNOLD E. ORTMANN. 



Id a former paper' I gave in general terms the limits of the Indo- 

 Pacific literal region, to which I added a study of the origin of the 

 recent litoral regions of the world. As these considerations, iounded 

 upon the geographical distrii)Ution of the Decapoda, contain hut a 

 few detailed investigations, it is necessary to go more into detail when 

 a separate group of Decajwda is examined and to state the relations 

 to the principles given in the paper quoted. In 18'>1 I revised the 

 genera PaUnnoit and Bithijnis^ and gave an account of their 

 geographical distribution. In 1894 I published an account of the 

 family Atyidie.'^ These groups of fresh water Crustacea are wholly 

 unlike each other in respect to their geographical range and agree 

 only ia that they are true tropical animals. Whilst the Puhmum 

 and I{ifln/ni.< group of the Pala^monidic is a very recent one, related 

 in its distribution, without doubt, to the limits of the recent marine 

 litoral regions, the family Atyidtc is comparatively an ancient one, 

 showing in no way relations to the former. 



In the present pajx;r I will treat of a true marine group, the 

 family of Crangonida-, which ia characterized by the adaptation t»f 

 most of it.s members to the cold waters of the Arctic and deep sea 

 regions. 



Fossil remains of Crangonida' are imknowu. In all species referred 

 with more or less doubt to this family, the typical characters are not 

 evident. The absence of Crangonida' from the Tertiary tle[)<i(^it8 

 agrees with their morphological characters and their supposed recent 

 development. They form the most extreme end of one of the two 

 main branches of the Kucypliidea,* The principal character is tlic 

 more or le?« reduced condition of the second pair of pen'io|K)da. The 



' .friijiischc Di-nksrlirifl. VIII. 18I»4, p. <W P. ('rusUw<tn in Soinon, /«i<1«>k. 

 Koixrlmii^sniscti iti Australiffi tiiul lU-m ninlByiKclicii Arfliiin-l. 

 ' Z<>..l();;iH«-hc .liilirliiicher. V. |sl»l. p. (HKt-T.'id. 

 ^ I'riMctrl. A. ail Nat. Sri. riiiladolphia. IMM. p. 3li7-JI(». 

 • Ortiiianii. '/amAkk- Jalirb.. V. l.HlMt. pp. 402. J«W. 




174 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OV [1895. 



Crangouidn' are coniu'ctcd with the Nikidio by the <reiuis (l/i/pho- 

 cnnKjnti, l)iit this coimcction is not a close one — there are some 

 gaps. 



Anionp: the ("rangonidjv, the genus Paiitocaris is no douht the most 

 primitive in regard to the sculpture of the carapace; the number of 

 gills and the shape of the second pair of pereiopoda. From Pmdo- 

 raris arise two divergent branches: the one through the subgenus 

 Scleroa'aii(jo)i to Craurjou, ending iu Ntciocraiujoii, characterized by 

 no shortening of the second pair of pereio[)oda, by the reiluction oi 

 the number of gills, and by the surface of the body becoming grad- 

 uiillv smoother. The other branch is represented by the genera 

 PontophilnSy Sdbinea, P«raero»(/o», characterized by the reduction of 

 the second ])air of pereiopoda in length, by retaining the primitive 

 number of gills and the sculpture of the body. In PoiitopliiliiK some 

 species have the body more or less smooth. The gein\?> Prioiioeraiigoii 

 is an aberrant one, without eyes, but related probably to the genera 

 Poidoiihilux and Subinea of the second branch. 



CRANGONID^ Bate, 1888. 



Crauffonitus KiiiKsley, I'rciceed. Acail. Nat. Sci. Philadelpliia, 187!», p. 411. 

 Crangonidcr Rite, Cliallenfier Macrur., 1888, p. 481, Ortniaiin. Zoolog. Jalirb., 

 V. IKIK), p. 4«2. 



Mandibles .simple, slender, incurved, not dilate or bifid, without a 

 synaphipod. First pair of legs stouter than the second, hand sub- 

 chelate, the dactylus closing on the margin of the palm, the pollex 

 being spiniform. Second pair of legs very feeble, chelate, often 

 shortened, not chelate, or wholly reduced. External maxillipeds 

 pedifurm. Maxilhc with more or less reduced innermost parts. 

 Rostrum mostly short. 



a,. Second pair of legs present. 

 6,. Eyes present, 

 c,. Second leg.s not reniurkably shortened (carjial joint and liaiid 

 together longer than the merus). Gills seven on each side. 

 Carapace with dentate i<»ngitudinal keels • • • ,. Pontocakis. 

 c^. Second legs not shortened. Gills five on each side, 

 f/,. Eyes free. Dactyl! of tlie two jtosterior jiairs of legs not 



dilated Chancon. 



d.^. Eyes nearly hidden by the frontal part of the carapace. 



Dactyli of the two j^osterii^r pairs of lef?^ dilated, natatorial. 



Ni;(T<»(iiANfa>.\. 




1985.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 175 



C3. SecHjiid legs remarkably shorteued (carpal joint aud baud u>- 

 getber not longer tban tbe meriis). Gills seveu.^ 

 d'. Second legs cbelato . . . . . Pontophilis. 



d^. 8et'ond legs not chelate . Sahinka. 



/»,. Eyes wanting. Second legs not chelate, rather r»)bust, with 

 fringes of li>ng, jiluniose setie A spiny median crest on tbe cara- 

 pace PlJIoNoCHANCJoN. 



'/.. SiviTal pairs of legs wIkpHv olisok'tf. Hi.-itriim el<)ngated. 



. Parackangon. 



PONTOCARIS Bate. 1888. 

 Bato, Challenger Macrur. ISsh, p. 4S»5. 



Very nearly allied to Cr(inr/o)i, especially to Sclrr<>cniii(j)iii. 

 Second periopoda not remarkably shortened, carpus aud paluia 

 to^'ether longer than the merus. Six pleurobranchiic (i-oj aiul one 

 podobranchia ( h) [ireseut Csee Bate, I.e., j). 496). Carapace with 

 seven keels, the five uppermost dentate. Abdomen sculptured. 

 '/,. .\nterior lateral angles of carapace projecting forward. KoHtruni 



acuminate P. proprmahiln. 



II.,. Anterior lateral angles of carapace obliquely directed outwartland 



forward. Rostrum iiidentate P. pi ima/n. 



1. Pontocaris propensalata Bate, 1888. 



Bute, Challenger Macrur. 188H. p. 406. pi. W, figs. 2. 3, pi. 8.5, fig. 5. 



Geiujrnj/liical (lislribidioii : Ki I.sland, near New Guinea. 1-10 

 fath. (Bate). 



2. Pontocaris pennata Bate. 1«88. 

 liate, il)i<l.. p. 49fl, pi. 01. 



Gi'ogrdphicnl (lixirUmiiim : Araiura Sea, 4!' t'atli. (Bate). 



CBANGON FabrioiuB 179s ( restrict). 

 Fiihrieius, Suppl. Entomol. .^y.st.. I7Hh, p. 4(«» ( pr. part). Kinpsley. I'n.ieed. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. IMiiiadelphia. 1h7», p. 11:.'. 



Second perciopoda not remarkably shortened, with chchi'. Kyes 

 present, free. Five gills present: four pleurobranchin- (1. in. u. o. ), 

 one arlhrol)ranchia (k. ).'' 



•'" Tlio niinila-r of giil.-t lias in.i Ihi-ii cxainiiii i| in all specie.s. 1 ImiumI li\e 



Kills in: L'>a>ii,'on hareiis, Siilr'n nui'i. iuttrmi diufi. (ypiius, ajfiuis. /minis- 



■ ■■■•■••!, ,\ciloininf;o>i lai, aii<l wven in I'iniU>f>fiilHS ni>n'txuns, .Sutiiiitii 



I arittala. By other autli-rs ( Bnt«?, .Smith ) are recorded live in Crjn.i;on 



/. and seven in Piniti-> -k f^ prnpfusalatii, pfiinala, /'onlofiliilus lire- 



rii ■•>)^. ahvsii, challfHi:' > hyitiiv. 



* .Smith reeonls in Ci i pleiirol.mnehia on k. htit no artliro- 



hranrhJH. I li.' l.r.mrhiul !■ .'n ».y Bat«- (I. e.. p. Ih'-') is rertninly 



wroni; 




17(3 PKOCEKniNOS OV TIIK ACAOKMY OK [1895. 



G. O. 8ars creates for some species the genus St-lerocntiK/on. 1 

 can not adopt this genus, but I retain it as a subgenus. 



rt'. Carapace Htrongly sculptured, III Icasi two spims in (he median 

 line. Al)d()nien mostly strongly sculptured, seldom nearly smooth. 



Subgenus: Sci-KiiocHANcioN. 



/*,. .Median keel of carapace with tliree or four spines. Lateral 

 keels «)f carapace partly granulate or rugose. Abdomen sculji- 

 tured by longitudinal keels and transverse furrows, 

 c,. Kpimera of tlie abdominal segments jtrovided with spines. 

 Carapace with more than three keels. Spines not excessively 

 developed. Sternum w ith a sharply serrated keel, 

 t/,. Keels of the carapace sharjjly granulated, keels of the al)- 

 domen sharj), e[)imera of the alidoniinal segments with 

 one to tliree spines. 



(\. The rostrum is sim])le Or. salt hrosns {\y. 



e.,. A long acute tooth is given off from the lower side of ros- 

 trum, wliich reaches as far forward as tlie tip of the ros- 

 trum Cr. a(ro.r. 



d.,. Keels of the carapace somew hat rugose, keels of the at)do- 

 men not sharp, epimeraof the abdominal segmentsonly with 



oue spine each Cr. boreas (14). 



('.,. Epimera of the abdominal segments without spines. Cara- 

 pace w ith three keels, the median one with four very long 



spines. Sternum w ith a dentated keel Cr. s/iarpi (2). 



f}.^. Median keel of cara{)ace with two spines. Lateral keels of 

 carapace smootli, ending in front in the usual spines. Abdomen 

 smootli, or with smooth longitudinal keels, 

 c,. E|)imera of the lirst and second abdominal segments witli 

 small spinules. Abdomen with longitudinal keels. Often a 

 rudimentary third median spine in the median line (tf carapace 

 between the two well-developed ones. 



Cr. agassizi. 



Cr. procnx. 



Cj. Epimera of abdomen without spinules. Median spines of 

 carapace small. 

 cl^. Abdomen with longitudinal median keels, 

 e,. Sixth abdominal segment with two sharp keels. 



Cr. intermedins (2). 



e.^. Keel of the sixth abdominal segment behind the middle 



finely furrcjwed Cr. angusticauda (4). 



d.^. Abdomen not 8cul{)tured Cr. munituH. 



(1.^. Carapace not sculptured, only with one median, and mostly with 

 f)ne lateral spine on eacli side (the latter being absent in Cr. cajieii.- 

 tfin). Abdomen nearly smooth Subgenus: Ckanoon. 



^ I put in parcntlicses, following each species, the nuniher of specimens 1 

 have examined myself. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELI'HIA. 177 



6,. Carapace with three spiues: oue in the niediau line, aud two 

 laterals, 

 c,. Fifth segment of the abdomen on the posterior margin with- 

 out apiuert. Hand more stout, about three times an long an 

 broad Cr. crati</oii. 



SUBSPECIES. 



r/|. All segmeutH of the abdomen rounded dorsally. 



Cr. eraiifyoii (many). 



(l.^. Some of the posterior segments of the abdomen sculi)tuied. 



c,. Fourth and lifth segments (seldom also the third) with a 



feeble longitudinal keel, sixth and seventh feebly furrowed. 



Cr. crfniyoii (iifi)iU (nianvK 



€.^. Third to lifth segment without keels, si.xth with two dis- 

 tinct keels, seventh furrowed . . Cr. craixjon (lUmnnni (1). 

 f... Fifth segment of the abdomen on the posterior margin, near 

 the median line, with a posteriorly projecting spine on each 

 side. 



f/|. Hand more slender, alxnit four times as long as broad. Ab- 

 dominal segments nninded above . CV. fninciscorum (many), 

 r/,. Hand more stout, ab<nit three times as long as broad. Sixth 

 and seventh segment of al)domen furrowed. 



('/•. finUn-cticuit. 



Ii.^. Carapace only with a spine in the median line, the lateral ones 

 wajiting (V. cajx ii.Hi.t. 



Subgenus 8CLER0CRANG0N (i. O. Siirr, 1K,S5. 

 <}. O. Siirs, Deii Norsk. \ordli;ivs Kxpcd., Zool., Crust. I, IHST), |>. 1 J. 



1. Crangon (Scleroorangon ) salebrosus Owen, IKIO. 



Ciaiii^ioi sti/f/irnsns Owen, Crust, /mil. Ifcpclicy's Voy. Hlossoni. ls:?<». p. SH, 



|»i. :i7. flj,'. 1. .Sliiiipsoii, I'roc. .Vc3i(l. N:it. .Sci. Priila<l('li>lii;i. ISflO. p. 2.5. 



KiiiKslcy. Hull. K.s.s*;.\ lustit., U, 1.hh2. p. V2U. SIu-xIhtk, Vt^ii. I:.\|k.m1. V, 



IKST, p. 53. 

 Cheraf^hilui fernx fJ. O. Siire. .Xrcli. Mutli<-m. Natiirvid. IF, 1H"7, ji. '.\'.\\>. 

 Srlrrncrang^on salct>rosiis(i)w.) (i. (). .Sara, Den Nnrsk. Nordli. I'^xpcd., Zi».l., 



Crust. I, 1HH.5, p. 15, pi. 2. 



(iriK/rn/ilnrul (li^lrlhulioii : Nortliern circunipolar. — Kainsclintkn 

 (Owen): Avntska Hay, 10 tatli. (Stinipson;, Spi(zherj,'en, .Ian. 

 Mayen; oil Norway, 100-4")!> fath. (G. O. Sars), Kara Sea, ^ri-JJO 

 fath. (Stuxherg;. 



2. Crangon i Soleroornngon) atox raxon, 1Hi(3. 

 Fax. Ill, r.iill. Mils. Ciiiiip. /,....] :.'l. lsii;{. p. W.\. 



(Jrnifrnj/liiriii iliflrilitifiim : \\ cslrrn coa.^l of Mexico, (>ril(-(i7(t 



fatli. ( Faxon). 




178 I'HOCKKDINOS OK THE ACADRMY OF [1H95. 



3. Crangon (Scleroorangon) boreas (I'hipps) 1774. 



Canti-r h(>>,;i<: riiipjis. V«y. Nurlli VoV-. 1774, p. 1!H», pi. 1:2 Iik. 1. 



Camer hoinantiiiis l'al)iii'ius, Fiiiin. (iri'iilaiKl, 17.s(». p. :J11. 



Asljciisliotfas (I'll) I'iibiiiiiis, Hiitoiiml. Syst, II. 17!«. p 483. 



Cram-on ttortjs (Ph.) Fabiiciiis..*<uppl. Kiit.Syst. 17!is, p. .l(i<i. Saliinc, Siippl. 



.vVpciul. raiiv's first Voy. IH'^t, 'S.\-y. .Miliio-I'.dwanl.s, Hist. Naf. Cnist. II, 



ISST. p. 34-2. KroyiT. Niiturli. 'ria.>i.skr., IV. 1S4--', p. 21H, pi. I. Cik-s. 1-14. 



Millie Ktl wards. Atlas. (iiviiT, K('n»- -Viiim. pi. •")!. lifj. 2. (no date). 



Mraiidt, Kivltse, in Middcndortrs Sihor. Ueis., II, Zoid. 18,")1, j). 114. 



Daniclsson. Hon-tn. Zool. Kii.sc. ISoO, p. 4. Stinipsoii, rrocoid. Acad. Nat. 



Sii. riiiladelpliia. ISOO, p. a.'). Miuliliolz, Zwcitc- Diiit.sih. Noidpol. II. 



1S74. (rust. p. ~'71. KinKsUy, Hull. Kssex Inst. X. ISTS. jia^c .54. Smith 



Trans, (."onu. Acad., V, 187!l, p. ntJ. Stu.xberg, Vejia Kxpod., V, 1887, 



p. 53. 

 Clwnipliilus bonas (Pli.) Miere, Anual.Magaz. Nat. His. (4) XX, 1877, p. Ttl. 



Hr)ok. Niedcrl. Arcli. Zool . Suppl. 1, 7, Crust. 1882, p. 10. Murdoch, Kep. 



I'ol. Kxjted. Point Harrow. 188.'), p. 139. 

 Crani:on ( Clifiapliiliis) bonas (Pli.) Miers, Jour. Linn. Soc, Zool. XV, 1881, 



J). 60. 

 Siltroitan^ou boreas (Ph.) G. O. Sars, Christiania Vid. Sclsk. Forh. 1882, \), 



7. (i. 6. Sars, Den Norsk. Nordh. Exp. Zool. Crust. II. 1886, p. 6. Koelbel, 



Die Oesterr. Polarst, Jan Mayen, III, 1886, Zool. E. p. 51. Ortmann, Zool. 



Jahrl). V, 1890, p. 532. 



Geographical diatributiov : Northern circurapolar. Norway 

 (Dani^bsen, G. O. Sars) Barents Sea and Nowaja Semlja, 25-140 

 tilth. (Hoek); Franz Joseph Land (Miers); Beeren Island (G. O. 

 Sars); Spitzbergen, shallow water (Hoek, G. 0. Sars) Jan ISIayen 

 (Ktilhel); Iceland (Kroyer); east coast of Greenland, 4-27 fath. 

 (Buchholz); west coast of Greenland, to 87° 44^ lat. northward 

 (Miers); Davis Strait and Melville Island (Sabine); N. E. coast of 

 America, from Labrador to Massachusetts Bay, 5-33 fath. (Smith); 

 northern coast of America to Beriugs Strait, 10-2(j fath. (Stirapson); 

 Alaska: Point Franklin, 13 fath. and Port Clarence (Murdoch); 

 Siberia (Brandt, Stuxberg). 



4. Crangon (Soleroorangon) sharpi nov. spec* 



Pararruniron echiiiahis SharY) '.nou Dana), Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., Pliila- 

 delph'ia, 1893, p. 126. 



* Description: Carapace with three keels, the median one with four long 

 si)ines. the first longest and placed on the upper margin of rostrum, which 

 extends a little beyond the eyes; the second spine nearly as long as the first, 

 placed immediately hejiind the base of the rostrum. The spines are directed 

 obliquely forward and upward. Lateral keels formed by four spines, the fore- 

 most, on the anterior margin of carapace near the base of antonnse, is the longest, 

 ami (lireeted obliiiuely forward and outward, more than half as long as the cara- 

 pace; the three utiieis are smaller. l)ut sharp. ,\b(bimeii sculptured, first to sixth 

 segment with a meilian keel, that of the third arched and products! somewhat 

 jiosteriorly, that of the sixth finely furrowed and ending in twospines posteriorly. 

 Two other spines are jylaced at the posterior margin of this segment, one on each 

 side. Fifth segment, rm the posterior margin, near the median line, with a sharp 

 spine on each side. Lateral faces of the first to fifth .segment sculptured by two 

 irregular transverse furrows, sixth segment laterally with an indistinct longi- 

 tudinal ridge. Fi)imc-ra of the first to fourth segment triangular, inferior angles 

 blunt, without spines. Keel of sternum dentate, but not spinoso-serrate. 



Two si)ecimens arc in the Museum of the Academy of Natural Science of 

 Philadelphia. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 179 



(jpocjraphical didribution : Alaska, Kodiac Arcliip.: Marmot Islo, 

 45 fath. (Sharp). 



5. Crangon (Sclerocrangon) agassizi (Smith), 1882. 



C/ierap/ii/us a^assi:i Smith, Bull. Mus. Conipar. Zool.. Cambridge, X, 1882, p. 

 32, pi. 7, fig. 4, 5. Kep. U. S. Fish Conim. for 1882, 1884, p. 3U2. 



Geographical distribittio)i : Atlantic, eastern coast of United States, 

 31-41° N. Lat., 65-78° W. Long., 263-959 fath. (Smith). 



S. Crangon ( Sclerocrangon ) procax Faxon, 1893. 



Faxon, Hull. Mus. Conip. Zool., Cnmbridge, XXIV, 1S93, p. 199. 



Geographical disfrihiifioii : Western coast of Central America: 

 Gulf of California to Panama Bay, 660 to 905 fath. (Faxon.) 



7. Crangon (Sclerocrangon) intermedins Stimpson, ]8(i0. 



(laiii^on i >i/cr>nciii II s >itim\>ion. Proceed. Acad. N:it. Sci., Philadelphia, IStM), 



p. 2.5. 

 Cranj^on lenuifrons Kingsley, Bull. F.s.sex Inst., 11, lsS2, p. 128, pi. 1, lig. 10. 



Geographical dintribntion : Bering Sea, Cape Chepoouski, 40 fath. 

 (Stirapsonj; Alaska: Marmot I.<1. (Kingsley). 



8. Crangon (Sclerocrangon) angnstioanda de Haan, 1849. 



Crani^roti ant^tisliraiida de Haan, F'ann. Japon. Crust. Dec, 6, 1849, p. 183, pi. 



4.5, fig. 15. Stiiup.sou, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philadelphia, 18fi0, p. 25. 



Sclerocratif^on ans^uslicanda (d. H.) Ortniann, Zoolog. Jahrb., V, 1890, p. v\'Xi. 



(]pogr(iphit(il tHntrihiitioii : Japan, (de Haan): Sinuxla and 

 Hakodati, suhlitoral (Stimps^onj, Kadsiyama (Ortmann). 



9. Crangon (Sclerocrangon | munitns Dana, 18.52. 



Cranf^on tminiliis Dana. U.S. I'xplor. Kxped. Crust., 1852, p. .53(5, pi. 33. fig. 5. 

 Slinip.son. Boston .lour. Nat. Mist., VI, 1H57, p. 497. Kingsley, I5ull. lC,s.scx 

 Inst. X, 1878, p. T>i. Lockington, ibid. p. 159. 



Gedf/rajdiical dlxtribiifiov : Putret Sound (Dana); Ia)\\cv C'ali- 

 fornia: Msigdalena Bay (Ixjckington). 



Subgenus CRANGON. 

 10a. Crangon crangon (Linnaeus), 1758. 



Can( t r crinix:<>'i l.iMnaciis, ."^yst. Nat.,10eil.. 175h, p. o.Ti. 



Altai Its iiatn[on ( L. ) Fubricius, Kntomcd. Synt., II. 17»;j. p. 4K(t. 



Camtrr (Aslucus) iram^on L. Ih-rbsl, Kntbb. u. Knlisc, II. 1T1MI, p. 75, pi. :.'!», 



fig. 3,4. 

 Craiii;on ••uli^jri^ Fabriciiis, Siiiipl. Knt. .Syst. 1798, p. 410. Leach, Malar. 



P.Mlophth. Brit. |h|5, pi. 37 M .Milne-Kdwards. Hi.st. Nat. Crust. II, 1>':«7. 



p. ;tH iicid .\tlas ill (iivicr. Krgn. .Anini. pi. 51. lig. 1, (no date). Kmycr, 



.Natiirli. rids-skr.. IV. 1h.1-.». p. 'S.W. j.l. 4. fig. •-'1»-3:J. B«ll, Brit rmst Is53. 



p. 2.511. Kiiiabaii, Pr<M red U. I. .\ciiil. Dublin, lH(i2, p. OS, 71, pi. 4. 



Heller, Crust, siidl. Kiirop. Ix03. p. 220, pi. 7, llg. 89. Meiinrt. .Natiirb 



Tid.sskr. (3) XI. Is77. p. I!ts Kingsley, Bull. Hs.'m-x IiihI.. X, Ih78. p. 53. 



KiiigHl.y. I'nxced. .\ca<l Nat. Sci., Philiidclpbia. 1h7H. p. Hit, ibid. IM71I. p. 



411. Smith, Trans. Coiiincliciit .\rad. V. 1H79, p. 55. KiiigHley, Bull. Ivwx 




1*^0 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OK [1895. 



Inst. XIV, ISS'J, i>. 120, 1)1. 1, fig. T). Ciirus, Prodnmi. f:\iin. moflitorr. I. 



l.SSl. p. |s-,'. llciuliTson, Dcciip. !iii(l Sclii/.op. Criisl. I'iitli of ('lytic, ISSO, 



p. :5J. Rito, Chiilk'ngor MaiTiir. iss.s, p. 4.s.l. Oitniann, Zool. ,Iiilirl).'V, 



ISltO, p. ■">30. 

 Crani:o>t rubiopuni talus Risso, Hist. Nat. C'rust. Nice, 181ti, p. H3. Jvisso, 



llist. Nat. Eiirop. inorid. V, lS2<i, \>. «.">. 

 Crampon scpleinspi/iosus Say. .lour. Acjul. Nat. Sci., riiihulclpliia, I, 2, 1818, 



p'. 240. Dekay, Zool. New York. Crust. 1844, j). 2.">, jil. 8, Iir. 24. 

 Crampon macii/osits li;itlikc. Mcin. Acad. St. I'ctorshurK, Sav. ctr.. III. 1837, 



p. 3G6. 



Geographical disfrihutioii : Northern circumpolixr (?), but more 

 boreal than arctic, extending considerably southward. Northefn 

 Atlantic: European coasts, northward to Iceland, and northeastern 

 coast of America, southward to Virginia and N. Carolina. Northern 

 PaciHc : Japan, Yokosuka (Bate) and Bay of Tokio (Ortniann). 

 Litoral, very shallow water. 



lOb. Crangon crangon afl&nis de llaau, 1849. 



Crangon z'ulffaris Owen, Crust. Zool. Becchey's Voy. Blossom, 1839, p. 87. 



Dana, U. 8. Explor. Exped. Crust. 18.")2, p. ."^^fJ. Murdoch, Rep. Pol. Expcd. 



Point Barrow, IHS.i, p. 138. 

 Cra)i<;oii alfiiiis de Haan, Faun. .Tapon. Crust. Dec. 6, 1849, p. 183. Bate, 



Challenger Macrnr. 1888, p. 484, pi. 86, lig. 1-3. Ortmann, Zoolog. .Jahrh. 



V, 1890, p. 531. 

 Cranston nis^ricauda Stimpson, Proceed. Calif. Acad. Sci., I, 2, 18.5(), p. 89. 



Stinipson, Boston .Tour. Nat. Hist. VI, 18.57, p. 496, pi. 22, fig. 6., Stinipson 



Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., Pliihuklphia, 1800, p. 25. Kingsley, Bull. Essex ' 



Inst. X, 1878, p. JJ4. Lockiufiton, ibid. p. l.W. 

 Crano-oit propinqu us titimpson, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci.. Philadelphia, 1800, 



p. 25. 

 Crangon nii^roviacula/a Lockington, Proceed. Calif. Acad. Sci., 111,1876, p. 



34. 

 Crangon alaskensis Lockington, ibid. 



Geographical distribution: Northern Pacific, somewhat deeper 

 water. Japan (de Haan): Kobe Bay and Inland Sea, 15-50 fath. 

 (Bate), Maizuru (Ortmann), northern Japan, 4-20 fath. (Stimp- 

 sou); Alaska: Mutiny Bay (Lockington), Norton Sound, 5 fath. 

 (Murdoch); Puget Sound (Dana); Mouth of Columbia river 

 (Stimp.son); California, in deeper water than Cr. francixcormn 

 (Stimpsou): Tomales Bay (Stinipson), San Francisco (Dana, Stinip- 

 son), Monterey (Owen), San Diego (Lockington). 



lOc. Crangon crangon allmanni Kinahan, 1862. 



Crant^oii alhiiainii Kinahan, Proceed. K. I. Acad., Dublin, VIII, 1862, pp. 68, 

 71, pi. 4. Kinahan, Trans. K. I. Acad. Vol. 24, 1S71, p. f>4. Metzger, 

 jfahreslicr. Coninii.ss. Unters. deutsch. Meere. II, III, 1875, p. 290. Meinert, 

 Naturh. Tidsskr. (3) XI, 1877, p. 198. (i. O. Sars, Arch. Math. Naturv. 

 II, 1877, p. :«9. G. O. Sars, Christiania Vid. Selsk. Forli. 1882, p. 44. (J. 

 0. Sars, Den Norsk. Nordh. Exp., Zool., Crust II, 1880, p. 6. Ilender.son, 

 Decap. Schiz. (^rust. Firth of Clyde, 1880, p. 33. Ortmann, Zoolog. Jahrh. 

 V. 1890, p. ,5:i2. Scott, Annal. Mag. Nat. Hist. (6) XIII, 1894, p. 413. 



Geographical distributvni : Northern Europe, somewhat deeper 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



water. England and Ireland (Kinahan); Scotland, 24-GU tath. 

 (Metzger); Shetland Isl, (Kinahan); North Sea, 9-20 tath. 

 (Metzger, Scott); Skagerrak and Kattegat, 6-49 fath. (Metzger, 

 Meiuert); Norway (G. 0. Sars); Iceland, 20-o0 fath. (G. O. 



Sars). 



11. Crangon franciscorum Stimpson, 1S5G. 



Stimpson, Proceed. Calif. Acad. Sci., I, 2, 1856, S9. Stimi^on. Boston Joiini. 

 Nat. Hist. VI, 1.H.57. p. 495. pi. 22, fig. .5. Stimpson, Troceed. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci., Philadelphia, 18C0, p. 2o. Kingsley, Bull. Essex Inst. X, 1878, p. 54. 



(ieotjraphical (Ilstributioti : W. coast of N. America, shallow 

 water. Puget Sound, Shoalwater Bay, Toniales Bay, San Fran- 

 cisco, Monterey (Stimpson). 



12. Craugon antarcticus Pfert'er. 1887. 



I'fcU'er, Naturli. .Mus. Jahrb., Hamburg, witss. Anstalt. IV. 1887, p. 45, pi. 1, 

 lig. 1-21. 



Geographical distribution : South Georgia, (Pfeller). 



13. Crangon capensis Stimpson, 18*>0. 



Stiinpsim, Proceed. Acad. Nut. Sci.. Philadelphia, 18f)0. p. 24. 



Geographical didributioii : Cape of Good Hope, Simons Bay, 12 

 fath. (Stimpson). 



NECTOCRANGON Brandt, 1837. 



Alibis Kroyer. Natiirh. Titlsskr, I\', l"vl2, ii 2ti7 (nomon i)rieo<cnii:ituni )• 

 Nertocrani^nii Brandt, Krehse in: Midilcndorll".s ."^ilicr. Keis. II. Zool. 1. 1851, 

 p. 114. Kingsley, I'roceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philadelphia, ls7!t, p. 412. 



Second poreiopoda not shortened, with chela. Five hranchiie, like 

 CrniKjoii. Eves partly concealed hy the frontal margin. I'osterior 

 |)erei()poda with lanceolate dactyli with fringes of hair. 



a,. iJehind the rostrum two spineH in the median line «)f carapace. 



V. htr(\). 



a,. lieliind Iho mstniin tliree well develoiK'd f^pines in the median line 

 ufcarapat-e, hetween tlie r<ihtr\ini and tlie lirst Hpine a rudimentary 



one A', nhishi iini.-i ill. 



1. Neotocrangon lar (Owen) !>«!». 



Cranirim /arOwen. Zool. Beeehey s Voy. BloHHoni, 1.h:5», p. HH, pi. 28, (ir. 1. 



Aixii lar (<)w. ) Kniyer, Naturli. Tiils-skr. IV. 1H.J2, p. 2.5.'>, pi. 5. Jig. •.'V-((2. 



.\fi tin raiii^iiii /nr {I iw.) Stiini>s..ii. Prorccd. .Vt-jid. .N'at. Sci. IMiihuhlpliia, 

 1H«M», p 25. Stimpson, .\nnal. I.yc .New York. ,\. IM74. p. 125. KingHlry, 

 Bull. KsMX Inst. X, 1H7H, i>. .V» .Smith, Trans. Cunncct. Acaul. V, Is'lt, 

 p. til. Murdoch, Hep. Pol. K.xped. Point Biirrow, I8K5. p. 131t. 



Geographirul diAtrUiufiuii : Northern <'ircumpolar. — Ari'l^c < h-eaii 




1S2 n;<K'i;Ki>iN(Js ok tiik acaokmy <>i' [1895. 



(Owen, Stimi)>i>ii); ISortliern Alaskii: I'oint IJarmw ( Murdodi); 

 Bering' Strait : Avatskjv Hay, 10-'2() i'ath. (Stimpson ); CiiTeiilaiid : 

 Godthaal) (Kniver); Lnbrailor, (Smith); (Julf of St. Lawrence 

 (Smith); Now FoiiiKllaud : St. Johns (Stim|KS()ii); Nova Scotia, 59 

 fath. : Halifax, 215-52 fath. (Smith). 



2. Neotoorangon alaskensis Kingsloy, 18S2. 

 KiiiKsloy. Hull. Ksscx lust. XIV, lss-,>, p. 12S. 



(icofira/iliicnl (lisfrlljutioii : Ahi!<ka, Kodiac Arch.: Marmot 

 Ishinel (^Kingslcv). 



PONTOPHILUS Leach, 1815. 



Pontophilus liOiich, Melacostr. rodoiihth. Brit. ISl.'j, pi. 37 A. 

 Efffoii Hisso (pr. part.) Hist. Nat. Europe mcrid., V. 1826, p. 5H. 

 Cheraphilus and Aeffeon Kiuahau, Proceed. K. I. Acad., Dublin, VIII, 1S()2, 

 p. (58, 00. 



Second periopoda shortened, carpal joint and hand tofrether not 

 longer than meru8, chela.' |)resent. Eyes present, free. Gills seven 

 on each side: six pleurobranchiic (i. k. 1, m. n. o. ) and one (rudi- 

 mentary) podobranchia (h. ). 



rt,. Median keel of carapace with more tlian three spinen. Seven 

 keels on the carapace, witli lunnerou.s teeth. Abdomen strongly 

 sculi)tured. 



6,. RoHtrum emarginate P. cataphracius (4). 



b.^. Rostrum acute, with lateral teeth P. bengaiensis, 



P. (indaiiianetisin:* 

 «-,. Median keel of carapace with three spines. Abdomen smooth or 

 only the posterior segments with longitudinal keels. 

 6,. Carapace with more than two lateral si)iiies. Abdominal seg- 

 ments with distinct keels, 

 c, Three denticulate lateral keels on each side. Fifth segment of 

 abdomen with a keel. Rostrum acute, simple . P. (chinitlatus. 

 c.^. Two lateral keels on each side, the upper with three, the lower 

 with two spines. Third and fourth segment of abdomen with 

 a simple keel, fifth with four, sixth with two keels. Rostrum 



with lateral teeth P. ■ynnomis (8). 



c.,. Two lateral keels, t be upper with two, the lower with one 

 spine, 

 d,. Sixth segment of abdomen with a double keel. Rostrum 



without lateral teeth P. uorLrr/icun (4).- 



dj. Fifth segment of abdomen witli four, sixth with two keels. 

 RoHtrum with lateral teeth J', brcvirostrls. 



» I am not sure whether these two species (bcni-alensis and andamanensis) 

 really belong to Pontophilus. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHI r^ADKLPIIIA. 183 



h... Carapace with two lateral spines and a third very small one be- 

 hind the supraorbital fissure. Rostrum with two minute lateral 

 te^th on each side. Abdomen smooth. Eyes colorless . P.uhi/ssi. 



P. occidentdUs. 

 h,,. Carapace with two indistinct lateral keels, each with a spine. 

 Sixth and seventh segments of abdomen feebly furrowed. Ros- 

 trum acute, with a lateral tooth on each side J\ c/ndtcm/cri (2). 

 f't. Carai)ace with one lateral spine and a series of small spinules. 

 Fifth segment of alidtjmen sculjitured, sixth and seventh fur- 

 rowed. Rostrum oi)tuse /'. jj<(((crsotii. 



rt,. Median keel of carapace with two spines. 

 A,. Abdomen strongly longitudinally and transversely scul|)turcd. 

 Carapace with a two-spined median keel, and two many-siiiucd 

 lateral ones on each side. Rostrum emarginate . . . P. sculj)tuH. 

 h... Abdomen smooth or only with a few longitudinal keels, 

 c,. Carapace with distinct and denticulate lateral keels. 

 (■/,. Three lateral keels, the upper with twi^, the lower with one, 

 the middle without teeth. Rostrum truncate . P. bklcntadoi. 

 (I.. Two lateral keels, the upper with live, the lower with three 



teeth P. au.stra/is. 



Cj. Carapace with two lateral spines. Rostrum acute, slender. 

 Abdomen without keels. 



(/^. Rostrum without lateral teeth P. Jitncritn. 



(I .. Rostrum with one lateral tooth on each side. Spines of the 



lateral faces of carapace in an oblique jtlane ... P. r/rdcilis. 



(/.,. Rostrum with two lateral teeth on each side. Spines of the 



lateral facew of carapace in the .same level . . . 1\ j)n>fiin(li(.s. 



c,. Carapace without lateral spines and without distinct keels. 



Rostrum short, ol)tuse, fifth and sixth segments of abdomen 



with tw(j longitudinal keels /'. /ji.tpi/iitsiia (1). 



(t^. .Median keel (jf carapace with one spine, .\lidomen smooth. 

 fi^. Carai)ace with three lateral sjiines and a longitudinal series of 



small spinules /'. inUriiudiuH. 



h.^. Carapace with one spine on each side . . /'. frisjjinonim (1). 



/i.^. Carapai-e without lateral spines. 

 <■,. Rostrum broadly truncate. Tels<jn furrowed . /'.j'tis<-iit(us {.'>). 

 c,. Rostrum short, obtuse. Telson rounded dorsally. 



/'. in ;/lt (Ills. 



(I.. Median line of carapace without spines. Carapace with seven 

 keels, keels smooth, the upiK.r and lower lateral ktvl with a sjiine 

 each. Abdomen sculptured by transverse furrows. ./'. rurininiinhi. 



1. Fontophilns cataphraotas lOlivi) I702."> 



Cancer calapin actus r)livi, Zooi. .Vdriat., ITJC. p. .W, pi. S, Iik. 1. 



'" Recently tlu^rc lia.M Ih-cii (li-.,<-rilio<l a iip<>cics l>y IIciKlcrsoii (TninH. Linn. 

 Soc. Ix>nilun. Zodl. (U) V, part in. I-':i:i, p. WW, p|. \n' \\\i. Hi. 17) from tlir Hm-- 

 nie.Hc coast iiiinicci Afi;ti>n oruiilalis. wliicli Ih siiiil to bf nt-urly rflute<l to tlie 

 Mediterraneau /'. cataphraitin. 




1H4 PKOC'EKDINQS OF THE ACADEMY OK [1895. 



Effeon lorii'jliis Kisso, Hist. Nat. Kiiroit. nu'rid., V. 1H:.>(), p. Us. 



Cians^on ialiif>lniii tiis (Oliv. ) Milm'-itMwiivds, Hist. Nat. Cni.st., II, ls:{7. \k 



:ii;{. and Atlas in ("iivior, licun, aniiii. jd. .')1, (!«. 3 (no date). Jlrllcr, 



C'nist. siidl. luirop., ISlJiJ, p. 230, \\\. 7, Iik. 12-15. ^Iiol•s, AnnaH Man. 



Nat. Mist. (.^>) Vlir, ISHl, p. 305. Cams, I'nuironi. faun, niodit., I, 1MK4, p. 



4S2. 

 Aegean calaf>hrailiis (Oliv.) Ortniann, Zoolog, .lalirl)., \, ISiio, p. ?>X^. 



Gc<Kjraj)h!t'al (l!,-ifriliiifl(»7i: Meditcrrain'tin Seii (Ivisso, Milne- Ed- 

 wards, Ileller, Cams); Senegaiiibia (Miors). 



2. Pontophilus bengalensis (Wood-^Ia.sim and .VUmkU) isiil. 



Cratiffon btm^alciisis Wood-Ma.son and .Mcoidv, Ann. Man. Nat. Hist. (0) 

 VIII, 18!»i, p. 300. Alfock and Anderson, .lonrn. Asiat. Sof. Bengal, vol. 

 63, 2, 1894, p. 152. 



Geogvaphical distribution: Indian Seas, 1U7-27(J iUtli. (Wood- 

 Masou, Alcock, Anderson). 



3. Pontophilus andamanensis (Wood-Mason and Alcock) isoi. 

 Cratigon anda/nanensis Wood-Mason and Al(!ock, ihid. 



Geographical distribution: Indian Seas, 188-220 fatli. (Wood- 

 Mason and Alcock). 



4. Pontophilus echinulatus (M. Sars) 1861. 



Crampon echiniilalns M. Sars, Forh. Vid. Selsk., Christiana, 1861, p. 29, pi. 3, 



fig. 48HJ4. G. O. .Sars. Arcli. Malli. Naturv., 11, 1877, p. 339. Henderson, 



Docap. Schiz. Firth of Clyde, issii, p. ;«. 

 Cranfcon scrratus Norman, licp. Brit. Assoc, 31 meet., 1862, p. 151. Norman, 



ibid., 38 meet., ISOii, p. 2()5. 

 Cheraphilus echinulatus (M. Sars). G. O. Sars, Forh. Vid. Selsk.. Christiana, 



1887. No. 18, p. 44. G. O. Sars, Den Norsk. Nordh. Exped., Zool., Crust., 



II, 1886, p. 7. 



Geographical distribution : Norway, 80-150 fatli. (JM. Sars, G. 



0. Sars)^ Shetland Islands (Norman); Scotland: Loch Fyiie, 105 

 fath. (Henderson). 



5. Pontophilus spinosus Leach, 1815. 



Tontophilus spinosus Leach, Malacostr. I'odoplitli. Brit., 1815, pi. 37, A. 



Ortmann, Zoolog. Jahrb., V, 1S!M), p. .534. 

 Crangon catapractus Milne-Edwards, Hist. Nat. Crust., II, 1837. j). 31:5 (i)r() 



parte). 

 Crangon spinosus (Lch.). Bell, Brit. Crust., 1K.")3, p. 201. Ileller, Crust. 



siidl. Luroii., 1x03, p. 229, pi. 7, fig. 10. Cams. I'rodnui). faun, niedit., I, 



1884. p. 482. Henderson, Decap. Schiz. Firth of Clyde, 1880, p. 32. 



Geographical distribution: European Seas. — P^-om Norway and 

 Sweden to the Mediterranean Sea, to ahoiit tiftv fath. (see Ortniann, 



1. c). 



6. Pontophilus norvegicus (.M. Sars) 1801. 



Crangon norvegicus M. Sars, Forh. Vid. Selsk., Christiania, 1801, p. 18;i. 

 M. Sars, Nyt. Magaz. f. Naturvid. 1861, p. 248. Goes, Olv. K. Vfet. Akad. 

 Forh., 1863, p. 173. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'm I>ADEI.PHI A. 185 



Pontophilus wo^T'c'C't""^ f M. S. 1 Meinert. Xuturh. Tiilsskr. (3) XI. 1S77. p. 

 200. Smith. Trans Connectic. Acad.. V. ISTO. i>. tiO. G. O. Sars. Fi.rh. 

 Vid. 8el.'*k., Christiana, lf^s2. No. IS. p. 7. .*>iinth, Bull. Mus. C'ompar. Zcol., 

 Camhridge, X, 1882. p. 34. G. O. Sars. Den Norsk. Nordh. Exp. Zool. 

 Grust., II, 1886, p. 7. Ortmann, Zoolog. Jahrb., V, lt«90. p. o:J4. 



Geographical distribution: Northern Atlantic. — Sweden: Bohus- 

 liiu (Goes); Skagerrak, 320 fath. (Meinert); Norway, 80-500 fatli." 

 (M. Sars, G. 0. Sars); Spitzbergen Sea (G. 0. Sars): N. E. coast 

 of America: Nova Scotia, 101-110 fath., Gulf of Maine, 115 ftith., 

 off Cape Cod. 105-524 fath. (Smith). 



7. Pontophilus brevirostris Smith. 1881. 



Smith. Proceed. U. S. Nation. Mns., Ill, 1881. p. 4.3,5. Smith, Bull. Mus. Corn- 

 par. Zool. X, 18,S2, p. 3.5, pi. 7. fig. 1. Smith, liei.. U. S. Fish Com. lor 18S2- 

 1884, p. 362. 



Geographical diKtribntli)ii : Atlantic, eastern coast of United States, 



51-155 fath. (Smith). 



8. Pontophilus abyssi Smith, 1S84. 



Smith, Rep. U. S. Fish Com. for 1882-1K.84, p. :i«)3. Wood-Mason and .VIcock, 

 Annal. Mag. Nat. Ili.st. (6) VIII, ISlil, p. :i61. 



Geographical dixtribation: Atlantic, otl' the coast ot United 



States 37° X. Lat., 70° W. I^ng. , 1917-2221 fath. (Smith); Bay 



of lieniral, 174.S-li)!»7 fath. (Wood-Mason and Alcock;. 



9. Pontophilus occidentalis Faxon, 1893. 



Fa.Kon, Bull. Mus. Comiwr. Zool., XXIV, 1893, p. 20<). 



GcograpJiical distribution: OH" the western coast of Central 

 America, !t78-2232 fath. (Faxon). 



10. Pontophilus challengeri Ortmann, 1893. 



/'ofi/o/>/ii/us i^^racilis Bate, Challenger Macnir., Inns, p. t.s7, pi. 87 (nomen 



pneoccupatiini). 

 ['ontophilus batei Faxon, Bull. .Mus. Compar. Zoo!., XXIV, .\ugust, 1893, p. 



2IM), Tootnotc (nomen pni-oecupatum ). 

 I'tmtnphilui (/ia//(iiirtri()rUminu. I)ica|)od Schi/.op. i'lankton Kxptd., 1H9:{, 



(.September) p. J9. 



Geographical diMributitni : Atlantic, neai- Tristan da (iinlia, I'.Mtd 

 fath. ( Bate); Cape Verde Island.s, ca. 2700 fatii. (Ortmann); Pacific: 

 New Zealand, 1100 fath. (Bate); near Torres Strait, 1400 fatli. 

 (Bate); near IMiilippine Islands, 2150 fath. (Bate). 



11. Pontiphilns pattersoni (Kinnhan) 1N62. 



(heraphilHH palteraoni Kinahan. Proceed. K. I. Acad., Diiiiiiii, Niil, 1h«2, 

 p. 69, 7:{. pi. 7. 



Giitginphicnl diaU-ibutinti : Northern England and Ireland 

 ( Kinahan ). 

 13 




IM) I'UOCKEDINOS OK TH K ACADKMY OK [1895. 



12. Pontophilus sculptus (IlcU) 1S53. 



Crani;on .uiilf^tiisWvW, Hist. Brit. Crust.. 1853, i). W.\ (tiK.). Ilfnikrsoi), 

 Decapoil. Schizop., Firth of Clydo, isso, p. 32. 



(notjmiihical dixinbuiiou Euglaud : Weymouth ( Hell), Firth oi" 

 , Clyde, 20 f'ath. (Hendereon). 



13. Pontophilus bidentatus (do liaaii) l.s^llt. 



Craitzon bidentatus A\i lliuin. Faun. .lapou. ("rust., Dcc.ii, 1.S40, |). Is3, i>l. II. 

 fig. 14. 



Gcotjmjthical disiribution : Japan (de Haan). 



14. Pontophilus australis (Thomson ) l.S7s. 



Cran!,u>/i (lustru/is 'l\w\nsou,'l'ra.uii. rrocced. Now Zealand Insl., XI, 1S7H, 

 p. 231, pi. 10, (ig. A. 1. Filliol, Pas.sagc Vojius., Miss. Caniphell, III, 2, \XHr\ 

 p. 430. 



Ch'tM/nij)lticitl (li-<fri button: New Zealand : Cook Strait.s, Dunedin, 

 Stewart Isl. (Thomson), from Napier to Stewart Isl. (Filhol). 



15. Pontophilus junoeus Biite, 1S8S. 



IJiite, Challenger Macrur. 1888. p. 491, pi. 88, fig. 2-4. 



Geographical iU.'<tribtitlo)i : Between Philippine Islands and 

 Borneo, 250 fath. (Bate.) 



16. Pontophilus gracilis .Smith, 1882. 



Smith. Hull. .Mus. Comparative Zool., X, 1882, p. 36, pi. 7, fig. 2-3. Wood- 

 Mason andAlcock, Annals and Mag. Nat. Jlist. (6) VIII, 1801, p. 3t)l. 



Geograjihical dittfribiifion : Atlantic, eastern coast of Unite<l 

 States, 225-458 ftith. (Smith); Bay of Bengal, 561-6K;} fath. 

 ( Wood- Mason and Alcock). 



17. Pontophilus profundus Bate, 1888. 



Hate, Challenger Macrur. 1888, p. 490, pi. 88, fig. 1. 



Geographical distribution: Off Sydney, 2600 fath. (Bate). 



18. Pontophilus bispinosus Hailstone, 1835. 



Vonlof^tiilns hispinostis Uailstone (nee Westwood), Mag. Nat. Hist.. VIII, 



183,5. p. 271, fig. 30. 

 Crampon nanus Kroyer, Naturli. Tidsskr.. IV. 1812, \>. 231. pi. 4. lig. 15-28. 



.Mtt/.gor, .Jalirosber. Comm. Unters. Deutseli. .Moor., II. Ill, 1X7.5, p. 291. 



Meinort. Naturli. Tidsskr. (3) XI, 1S77, p. 100. Hondor.son. Dooap. Scliiz. 



Firth of Clyde. 1886, p. .33. Scott, Aunal. Mag. Nat. Hist, (ti; XIII, 1h04, 



p. 413. 

 Cranffon bispinosus (Hailst. ) Bell, Brit. Crust., 18.53, p. 208. 

 Cheraphiliis bispinosus (Hailst.) Kinahan, Proceed. R. I. Acad., Dublin, 



VllI, 18«2, p. 68, 72, pi. 5. 



Geographical disfrlbiil ion : Northern Europe. — Sund (Meiiiert); 

 Kattegat (Kroyer) ; Skagerrak, 10-110 fath. (MeinertJ; Norway (C 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'll I LADKI.rH I A. 187 



O.Sars); North Sea (Metzger, Scott); England (Bell, Kinahan, Heu- 

 derson). 



19. Pontophilus intermedius (IJate) 1863. 



Craii'^njii iiilcriiicdins Hate. Proceed. Zool. Soc., London, ISiJiJ, \^. 503, pi. 41, 



fig. 0. Haswcll. Catiil. Anstnil. Crust., 1H.H2, p. 181. 

 Crdngon batei Kingsley, Bull. Essex lust., 14, 1882, p. 121). 



Geogriijthlral distribution: Australia, Gulf St. Vincent (Bate). 



20. Fontophilas trispinosus Hailstone, 1835. 



Potitophilna Irispiiiosits Hailstone, Mag. Nat. Hist., Vlll, ls35. p. 261, lig. 



25. Ortmann, Zoolofi. .lalirl)., IV, isiMi, j.. 5:«. 

 Cranffon Irispiiiosiis (Hailst. ) Ik-ll. Hrit. Crust, 1.S53, p. 2135. Metzger, 



Jahresb. Coniin. I'nters. Deutseli. Meer., II, III, 1875. p. 2<.il. Carus, I'ro- 



drom. faun. Midit., I, 1H.H4, p. 482. 

 Chcrapliiltia trispinosus (\h\\\sX.) Kinahan, Proeeed. H.I. Atad.. Dublin, 



VIII, 1K(J2, p. tJO, 72, pi. <). 



(icotjrujihiml iU.-<tribufli>ii : North Sea, lU-22 lath. (Mutzger); 

 England and Ireland (Kinahan); Marseille (Gourret); Azores 

 (Barroia). 



21. Pontophilus fasciatas (Kisso) 1816. 



CijiiicDii /'asiialiis Hisso, Hist. \at. Crust., Nice, 1.S16, p. S2, pi 3, fi;;. 5. 



Kis-;o, Hist. .Nat Kiirop. nierid., V, 1826, p. (54. Miine-Kdwards. Hist. Nat. 



Crust., II, 1S37, p. 342. Hell, l.rit. Crust., l8.-)3, p. 2.V.t. Ihli.r, 



Cnist. siidl. Kuroji., 18»)3, p. 228, pi. 7, tig. 10. Carus, Prodroni. I'aun. 



M.-dit., 1, 1H>U, p. 48:j. Norman, Annal. Magaz. Nat. Hist. (5) XIX, 1887, 



p. !M). 

 Act^eon fascialus (Ki.ss.) Kinahan, Proceed. U. I. Acad., Dublin, VIII, 1S62, 



p. 611. 74, pi. ». Drtniann. 7a>»\i>%. Jahrb., IV, 1K90. p. .'535. 



(/eoi/nijiliirul dlstribntioii : Euroju-aii Seas (Northern Imiidih', 

 Mediterranean Sea) and Azores. (See Ortniaiin, I. c. ). 



22. PontophiluH neglectus {(i. O. Siirs) 1882. 



(.'lu-raphHiii nei;lectns (%. (). .Sars, Forh. Vid. Selsk., ChriHtiania, 1882, No. IS, 

 p. 45, PI. 1, fig. 7. (;. (>. Sars. Den Norsk. Nordli. Kxp.. Zool., Crust., II. 

 IH8«1. p. 6. 



(iiDiiriijiJiirul ilixiribiition: Norway, 2-0 I'atii. > G. ( ). Siirs). 



23. Pontophilus carinicauda (.stini|>son) imM). 



Cratii^on carinicauda Stinipson, Pioceed. Aaid. Nat. Sci. Pliilatlelphia, Isii". 

 p. 25. 



Gcoi/riijililrii/ il i."!/-! bill inn : Wowj Koiig ( Stinipson). 



SABINEA Owen, 1835. 



Owen. .\pjK'iid. Voy. ('apt. IidS-h, 1835, p. 82. Kingsley, !'ro<Te<l. .\ca<l. Nat. Sti. 

 Pliiiadelpiiia, i'h71I, p. 112. 



Second perciopoda very short, without chela. Giliw seven, lik«' 

 ]'niit<>l>hi/iii, or live plonrohraiwhiie and two arthrol)nMichi;e (we 

 Smith, >S<ibiiiiu hijs(rij-). Eyes preaeut, free. 




188 I'Hot'KKDINdS OK TIIK ACADKMV OK [1895. 



a,. RoHtniin slmrl, scanvly lonjjer than the eycH. 



l)|. Hostriiiii and ti-lsun blunt V. si i>(i inr<triii<tt(i ((>). 



I).. Kustruni and telsoM more acute .S. sarsi. 



a... Kiwtruni long, aliout aH long an the anliiinale Hcale . . S. hi/Htrix. 



1. Sabinea septemoarinata (Snhine), 1H24. 



cyani^'-OH sf/>/f»irarin(i/its Sahine, Suppl. Appeiiil. I'arrv's \'ov. IH'2-I. p. 'SMi. 



pi. '2, Hg. 11-13. .M il no- ICd wards, lli.st. Nat. Cnist. I'l. 1h:{7". p. 313. 

 Sabhua st/>/<-»i(iiri/ij/<i (Sab.) Kniycr, Natiirh. Tidsskr. IN'. 1H4'2. ]). !244. jil. 



4, lij;. :W-40, pi. .5, lij;. 41-44. Mot/.Ki'r, .lahri-sl). roiiim. tliitor.s. dcntscli. 



Meer. II. Ill, 187.5. p. »'i»l. Miers, .\nn. Mag. Nat. lli.st. (4) XX, 1M77, i). 



58. Kingsley. Bull. Kssox Inst. X. 1.S7.S, p. ,5."). Smitli, Trans. Coiincct. 



Acad.. V. 1879, p. .■>7, pi. 11, fig. ."), it. 13. Iloek. Nicdirl. Avrh. Zool., Sui)pl. 



I, 7, Crust. 1882. p. 12. G. O. Sars, Den Norsk. Nordh. Kxp. Zool. Crust. 



II, 1S8H, p. 7. Stu.xl)erg, Vega Expcd., V, 1887, p. .54. Hate, Cliallcugor 

 Macrur. 1888, p. 493, pi. 89, fig. 2, pi. 90. (ig, 1. Ortniann. Zoolog. .Talirb., 

 V, 1890, p. 536. , 



Gear/ rapliical (list rihidion : Arctic seas extending; southward into 

 boreal seas. — Norway, to 106 fatli. (M. Sars, Metzgerj; Barents 

 Sea and Nowaja Semlja, 87-160 fath. (Hoek); Spitzbergen (Kroyer, 

 G. O. Sars); Iceland (Kniyer); Greenland (Reinhardt, Liitten); 

 Davis Strait (Sal)ine); Grinnell Laud (Miers); N. E. coast of 

 America: from Gulf of St. Lawrence to Massachusetts Bay, 25-85 

 fath. (Smith, Bate); Arctic coast of Siberia (Stirapson, Stuxberg). 



2. Sabinea sarsi Smith, 1879. 



Smith, Trans. Connect. Acad., V, 1879, p. 59, pi. 11, fig. 6, 7, 8. G. O. Sars, 

 Forh. Vidensk. Selsk. Clwistiania, 1882, No. 18, p. 46. Smith. Kep. U. S. 

 Fish Coram, f. 1882, 1884, p. 364. 



Geotjrdjih'md distribidion: Northeastern coast of America, 60-150 

 fath. (Smith); Norway: Lofoten (Smith), Christianssuud and 

 Stavanger (G. 0. Sars). 



3. Sabinea hystrix (A. Milne-Edwards), 1881. 



I'aracrani^on hvstrix A Milne-Edwards, Annal. Sci. Natur. (6) Zool. XI, 



18X1, p. 6. 

 Sa/>/wm />r/«(rf/.5 Smith, Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. X. 1882, p. 38, pi. 8, fig. 1. 

 Smith, Uep. U. S. Fish Coram, f. 1882, 1884, p. 364. 



Qeoijraph ical disfrihution : Atlantic: eastern coast (>f United States, 

 464-888 fath. (Smith); Guadeloupe, 734 fath. (A. Milne- 

 Edwards). 



PRIONOCRANGON Wood-Mason and Alcock, 1891. 

 W.iod-Mason an<l AIc.m k, Anna). Mag. Nat. Hist. (6) VIII, 1891, p. :J61. 



Second pereiopoda present, without chela, rather robust with a 

 friuL'e of long hair.-*. Eyes and eye-stalks wanting. Carapace with 

 a spiny median keel. — Gills uiikuown. 



Only one species known. 




1895.] NATITRAL SCIENCES OF FHILADELPHIA. 189 



1. Prionocrangon ommatosteres Wood-Mason aud Alcock, 1801. 



\\'<M>il-:\I;»:-i)ii ;iii(l Alfock 1. v. \>. 3B:?. Alcock and Anderson. .Tour. Asi:it. Soc. 

 Bengal, Vol. G3, 2. 1.MJ4. p. 1.52. 



Geographical disfrlbutiou : Bay of Bengal, 200-405 fath. (Wuod- 

 Mason, Alcock, and Anderson). 



PAEACRANGON Dana, 1S52. 



l)ana. L. .S. Explor. Exped. Crust. 18.")2, p. .'J37. KingsKv. Profet-d. Acad. 

 Nat i>ci.._ Philadelphia, 1879, p. 412. 



Second pereiopoda wanting. Eyes present, free. Carapace with 

 long .spines. — Gills unknown. 



a,. Branchial regions not areolate. Jive — s^pinous . . . /'. ff/ihiadiK. 



a.,. Biuiiehiul rcgion.^^ traversed l»y ana.stt)ni(isiiig ridges, dividing 

 these regions into cells of dillereiit sizes; they are armed witli tliree 

 small spines ... />. ttrroldiiia. 



1. Paracrangon echinatus I>ana, 1S52. 



I (anil. U. S. Kxplor. Kxped. Cru.st. ls.-,'J, p. 538, pi. 33, Ak. «. Stimp.son, Be.ston 

 .lour. .Nat. Hist. VI, 1857, p. 497. Kingsley. Bull. Es.sex Instit. X, 1878. 

 p. 55. 



Geographical distribution: W. coast of North America: Buget 

 Sound, Oregon (Dana). 



2. Paracrangon areolatus Faxon, 1893. 



I'aracrantron arcolata P'axon, Bull. Mus. ( oni|>. Zooi. X.XIV. Is!t3, ]i. 2(»i. 



Gcogrnjihiciil fliKfribiitioii : Western cdast of Mexico: Tres Marias 

 Islands, 676-080 fath. (Faxon). 



('(tiixideration.i coiirtrning the gcograjdii'((l dii^tribiitloii of tlir 

 ( rangoiiidii . 



The geographical distrihution of the Craiigniildn shows ihal only 

 one genus, I'mitncarin, no doubt the most primitive, is a true iuhah- 

 itant of the lesser depths of the tropics, the two sjHjcies known heing 

 found in 49 and I 40 fathoms in the Indo Malaysian seas. All the 

 other genera are partly contined to the seas of temperate or cold 

 clinuites, partly there is the main range, and oidy a few sp<'cies are 

 present in the litoral of warmer climates. I'outocarlK, I helieve, 

 must lie regarded aa a survival in the tropics, and its occurrence in 

 .somewhat deeper water, hut within the limits of the litoral, shows 

 already the tendency to descend into greater depths developed in 

 many species of the other < 'nmi/niiidd'. None of the oth<T species 

 present in the tropical |)arts of the world can he regnnled as stir- 

 vivals ; they immigrated thither from the more northern localities. 




1510 IMlOCKKniNQS OF THK ACADEMY OK [1895. 



The iimin raiii^i' of the <remis (^-hik/oii comprises tlic cooler scasoi' 

 tlie iiortliiTii heiuisplicre hoth in the Athuitic and racilic. There 

 are three species showini^ a true circiiiiipohir distrihiition: (V. 

 salchroiiitx, hi>ir<i.'< and cniiKjoii. The two first named must he 

 res^ftrded as true arctic animals, extcndinji; southward, it is true, in 

 more temperate climates, hut preferring considcrahle depths, from 

 ahout 100 to 400 fathoms. CraiK/o)) rrfUKjon lives in very shal- 

 low water, extending not as far northward as (V. Mllehrosus and 

 boreas, and a connection hetween the Atlantic and Pacific (Japanese) 

 localities is not known. Perhaps such a connection was only present 

 in former times, and this species can not be counted among 

 the circunipolar ones, hut is a survival of a formerly more 

 extended distribution. The two varieties of CraiH/on cnnKjo)! 

 described above prefer deeper water, 50 and GO fathoms, and they 

 are restricted to one of the northern parts of the two great 

 oceans, affiiiis beinir found in the northern Pacific from Japan to 

 California, allmmnii in northern Europe. Of the other species of 

 Craugoti eight show a distribution similar to the two last varieties. 

 Five are litoral and restricted to the northern part of the Pacific, 

 especially Cr. sharpi and intermedius to the most northern parts 

 (Berings Sea and Alaska), Cr. anyxisilcamlu to Japan, and CV. 

 mmiitiis and francixcontm to the western coast of United States. 

 The latter rejilaces the typical Cr. cramjon on this coast. A 

 sixth species, (V. (Kjamzi, is found in the Atlantic near the eastern 

 coast of United States, and must be regarded as a true deep sea 

 animal, being recorded from about 200 to 900 fatlion)S. It is 

 replaced on the western side of America by a nearly allied abyssal 

 species, Cr. jirocajr, 660-900 fathoms. On the western coast of 

 Centra! America is found a second abyssal species, Cr. afrox, between 

 600 and 700 fathoms, being closely related to the northern circuni- 

 polar Cr. .^alebrn.siix. The presence of these three abyssal species on 

 both sides of the American continent indicate a relation to the 

 northern circunipolar seas, according to their affinities witli the north- 

 ern circumpolar species of the subgenus Sclerocratiijov, but I do not 

 l>elieve that this demonstrates the connection of the western and 

 ea.stern American seas in the tertiary period within the litoral, as 

 held to-day generally by authors. 



Finally there are two antarctic species: Cr. eapnisls from the C-ape 

 of Clood Hope, and Cr. nnliuHiciis from South (Jeorpiii. The latter 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 191 



is regarded l\v Pfetler" as a proof of the bi]X)lar distribution of 

 ('rati(jo)i. I have doubted the correctness of Pfeffer's opinion in 

 this view,'-' and have pointed out that the examples of bipolar 

 ilistril)uti()n of Crustacea enumerated by him do not correspond exactly 

 to the facts known, except in the case oi" Cr. antarcticKx. But 

 neither in this species, is, I believe, a bipolarity of the genus 

 probable. Cr. antarciicus is the nearest allied to Cr. frami-^-orinn 

 and this fact induces me to suppose that a connection between the 

 northern and southern range of Craugon is present alonjr the west 

 coast of America from California to (,'hili, anu in the same n)anncr, 

 I believe, there is a connection from the European seas along the 

 western coast of Africa to the Cape of Good Hope, the locality of 

 Cr. cnjiriiKU. Litoral species of Crant/un have not yet been recorded 

 from the western coasts of America and Africa, but I hope that 

 further investigation will demonstrate the presence of this genus in 

 l)otii localities, and thus streuirthen my theory. 



Supposing my theory to be correct, the range of CraiK/on 

 would be a northern circumpolar one, partly containing circum- 

 polar species, partly species confined to the northern parts cither 

 of i'acific or of Atlantic. Some species descended into the deep 

 sea to a depth of about 900 fathoms and could propagate more 

 southward. Along the west coasts of Africa and America, owing 

 to the cooler temperature of the seius on these coast.s the range of 

 Crfiu(/ou could extend to the southern hemisphere, crossing tlie 

 tropics. 



The range of the genus Xrclocriniijuii, the nearest allied of ( 'niiif/on, 

 agrees wholly with that of the northern species of Criinr/nii: one 

 species, Xfcfnrniiii/iiii Inr, is a true an'tic-circuiii|)olar one extending 

 very little southward (the most southern locality recorded is Nova 

 Scotia), the other, NectocraiKjim aUiskeuMis, is restricted, as we know, 

 at |)resent to Alaska. 



Tiie genus l'i)iil»}>h'dii.'<,i\\(:' first of the series, representing the second 

 branch of development arising from Pontornrln, has a nearly cosnio- 

 politau horizontal distribution, but the several species are wholly dif- 

 ferent from each other. The greatest numl)er ol's|M'cies, like ( 'runijini, 

 is found in the litoral of the cooler seas of the northern hemisphere. 



" I'frfliT, Die niodoro Tliicrwelf rt«i antarrtiM-linn T'forKPhietos. — IjjU'rnnt. 

 Poliirf. I)ciit«<li. Kxpod. II. ISfto. p. rcHV-RTS. 



'* Ortiiianii, .l(;iiiusclic DoiikM-lirifU-n, VIII, IMH. p. 77. 




1!'- PROCKKPINOS OF TIIK ACADEMY OF [1895. 



but their rniifro does not extend very lar nortliward. Accordingly, 

 iirc'tic circuinpolar species are not known, the northern litural species 

 l>cing restricted to comparatively narrow districts, each to one side of 

 the irrcat oceans. Only one species, /'. imrveijirux, in the northern 

 Atlantic, is found on both the European and American shores. 

 Eight species are found in the European seas: /'. cchimtlatitH, 

 ■tjtinoxus, jxilfcrsoii! , scitljitit.-', hi-tpino.iits, trixjiinosux, JaxciatKx, 

 netjlectun', one on the east coast of United Htates : /*. hrrrlrodrin. As 

 the cooler waters of the western African coast allow a n)ore south- 

 ward extension, a mediterranean species, P. catajilinictiix, ranges 

 southward to the Senegambia. In the Pacific northern sj)ecies 

 are not known, but two having a more southward range: /'. 

 hidnitdtiis in Japan, /■'. car'niimmJa in China. The presence of the 

 latter in the tropics is due, I believe, to a more recent immigration. 

 Of the northern litoral species some show a very large bathymetri- 

 cal range, descending to considerable depths, es|)ecially 1\ rchiim- 

 I'linx, brt'i'lnixirix to 150 fathoms, P. iiorvcijicus to 500 fathoms. The 

 next to the latter species, as regards the depth inhabited, are J\ 

 heiK/nloixis, an<famfniriixis, jnurniM, i)eing found in the tropical seas 

 of India and Indo-Malaysia in depths of about 100 to 300 fathoms, 

 and, farther, five species are true deep sea animals. One of these, 

 P. prof 11)1(1 i(x, is only found near Sydney in 2,000 fathoms, another, 

 P. occideiitdllx, off the west coast of Central America in 900-2, '200 

 fathoms. The three others show the characteristic wide range of the 

 true abyssal animals, J*o»t. (jracUix being found in the Atlantic and 

 Indian oceans from 200 to 700 fathoms, P. abyssi in the North 

 Atlantic and Indian oceans from 1700 to 2,200 fathoms, and P. 

 challeiKjerl in the Atlantic and Pacific oceans from 1,100 to 2,700 

 fathoms. I^ftstly, two litoral species are known from the cooler seas 

 of the southern hemisphere: P. australis from New Zealand, and P. 

 intermedins from Southern Australia. 



The horizontal and vertical range of PontopJiilus n)ay be sum- 

 marized as follows: The main distribution of the genus is in the 

 litoral of the northern hemisphere, especially in the temperate seas, 

 a circumpolar rangeof none of the species is proven; a few litoral 

 species extend more southward. A great number of species have 

 a tendency to descend into deeper water, and, accordingly, some 

 species are found in the deeper water even of the tropics, and have 

 occupied a large area of the deep sea. In the cooler parts (»f the 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PH ri.ADELPlII A. 193 



southern hemisphere is given the possil)ility to re-ascend into the 

 litoral, and two literal species are, in fact, found in Australia and 

 New Zealand. 



The genus Sdhiiten contains two northern species, one of which, *S'. 

 sf'pfemcttrhiata, is a true arctic circuiupolar one, the other, tS'. t^arxi, 

 is found on both sides of the northern Atlantic. Both descend into 

 greater depths, to about 150 fathoms. The third sjjecies, S. hi/Kiri.r, 

 is an abyssal one, found in 400 to nearly 900 fathoms, and its range 

 extends more southward, from the eastern coast of United States to 

 Guadeloupe in the West Indies. 



The two known species of the most extreme genus ot the second 

 branch of Crangonidie, Paracrangon, live on the western coasts of 

 America, probably in greater depths; at least P. iire<>lafii--< is recorded 

 from over 600 tathoms. 



The last genus, Prionocrauf/on, is very peculiar and its afiinities 

 are not certainly known. It probably is allied to PitnlopliUii.\ and 

 then its hal)itat, in the deep sea of the Indian ocean, liOO-400 

 fathoms, would not be strange, since Poutophllus contains also 

 tropical species living in deeper water. 



The distril)Ution of Craiifjonuhv may be thus summarized: 

 The "regions of life"" in which Crangonidie are found, are the 

 I ilnnil and the ahysml. Regarding the "facies,"'* the C'rangonidu' 

 are principally, as we know, b'ullionic^'' in sand and mud. These 

 habits admit a universal distribution of the family, but the genera 

 and s|)ecies are more restricted. 



The litoral sj)ecies especially are not cosmo|Kjlitan, but are con- 

 fined by barriers. Except the tntpical genus PitithKarix, which 

 must 1)6 regarded as a survival, the litoral Crangonidie are almost 

 exclusively limited to the northern hemisphere, and the sea.s of 

 tropical tem[»erature must be considered as the rlimalir barrier pre- 

 venting the distribution of ( 'rangoni<la.' southward. Only a few 

 s|K!cies are adapted to the warmer seas, es|)ecially ( 'nnignn cnttijilinirtiiK 

 in Senegambia and PontophihiJ^ cariuirinnlti in China, Generally, 

 the (/'rangonidie, originating in the cooler northern lieniisphen-, were 



'• " Ix'lionshezirke," J. Waltlif-r. Kionomif des MroreH, 1S93, \>. 1»-15. p. H7- 

 17H. — WnltluT rloo*i not Rive a witi-fiictory hikI rnrrf<-t ilcfinitiiiii nl" flii.H word, on 

 ari'oiint of wliirli his <li't)iil*Ml ili^i-n.-jun f-iinriTiiiiiK tliJH trrni is wliolly oni uC 

 pliiro. No(\vitlist»nilinK, tin- iil< a nt' " ri'KionH of iilV " in n vt-ry k>><>*^ mic 



'• Wiiltlicr. ihiil. |). ^.Vrn. 



'* .S-c liai-rkt-l. I'lanktonsfiKJiiii. IMUt, p. iHll. 




1^^ PHOC'KKDINGS OK THE ACADKMY OF [1895. 



separated from tlie codlcr parts of the southern by tlie hroad helt of 

 the warm circumtropical sieas. Tliis zimc, ho\vi'v«'r, is not a con- 

 tinuous OIK", hut is interrupted within tlu' liloral on two Irai-ts, on the 

 western coasts of Africa and America. At these two h)calities there 

 are tw(» causes produciuii a lower tem|)erature of the litoral seas than is 

 usual in the tn)|)ics. On tlu' onv hand, there are cold currents rnn- 

 nini;: from the soutliern cold seas along hoth shores northward as far 

 as the equator and even l)eyon<l; on the other hand, on the.se coasts 

 arises cold water from the sea-bottom, the equatorial ( nrients directed 

 from the coast to the west carrying away the surface water. A 

 cooling of the litoral waters of the west coasts of Africa and America 

 is thus produced, and although the most superficial layers of water 

 may he warmed by the sun, in greater depths within the litoral 

 there may prevail a low temperature. Thus, on the west coasts of 

 Africa and America, it may be possible that northern litoral forms 

 penetrate into the tropics and l)eyond, and may reach the litoral of 

 the cooler antartic hemisphere. The presence of CrttiKjan cupeu>ii>i 

 and V. antnrcticus may be thus explained. 



15y adaption to a cooler temperature a large number of Cran- 

 gonidie are able to descend to greater depths,""* and by this habit 

 they may enter and cross the tropics in the deep sea. The species 

 adapted to the greater depths show, as usually in deep sea animals, 

 a very large horizontal range, and, therefore, they can reach 

 the southern hemisphere, while a re-ascending into the litoral 

 of the antarctic regions is possible. We know of the genus Poti- 

 foj/Jiiliix, whicli is the only one containing true deep sea species of wide 

 distri])ution, two species in southern Australia and New Zealand, the 

 presence of which is probably due to this cause. 



Other barriers against the distribution of the species of Cran- 

 gonidie are of a to])ographieal character. At first, the great conti- 

 nents of northern Eurasia and North America cause a complete 

 separation of the northern temperate parts of the Atlantic and 

 Pacific, and, therefore, these oceans contain distinct species. 

 Farther, the Crangonidie, living mo.stly benthonic, can not pass over 

 great oceans, and, accordingly, the eastern and western shores both 



'* The cold temperature is the main cause favoring immigration in the 

 deep seas, and in tlic arctics the deep sea and the litoral are closely connected. 

 See Monaco, Ziir Krforscliung der Meere, etc., translat<,'d into (Jerman hy 

 Marenzeller, Wien, 1K91, p. Ki-i. and Pfetrer, V'ersuch iiher der erdgescliichtlichc 

 Entwickelungder jetzigen Verl»rcitungsvcrhaltnisseun.serer'J'iorwelt, Hamburg, 

 1891. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHII-ADELPIIIA. 195 



of the Pacific aiul Atlantic are inhabited by different species. Only 

 the true arctic species being able to live alonir the most northern 

 shores of America and Asia show a circumpolar distribution, no 

 toiM)graphic barriers of the kind mentioned there being present. 

 The species not living in the arctic, but in the boreal'" seas, are re- 

 stricted by such topographic barriers. 



It is evident, therefore, that the means of dispersal of the 

 ( 'rangonidic, except Ponfocaris and a few species of J'ontophiliis, do 

 not act against the climatic barriers and mostly also not against the 

 to|X)graphic. Only a tew known species are present on both shores 

 of the Atlantic: Poiifophiliia non'e<jicn.f (100-150 fath.) and 

 Sttbinea sural (60-150 fath.;. Whether these species can pass over 

 the barrier formed by the northern Atlantic as adult animals or as 

 larv;i', or whether this distribution is due to otlur causes, we can not 

 say at present. 



On the shores of the Atlantic and racilic very nearly allied S|)ecies 

 are sometimes found. These must be derived from common ancestors 

 living when the arctic ocean was not as cold as at present, antl when 

 a circumiMjlar connection was present for these species as in the case 

 of the circumpolar forms now living. Later these species retreated 

 more southward, and Ijy the topographic separation of the range, 

 the morphological characters couM change, and distinct forms could 

 develop. 



The geographical distribution of the C'rangonidie is a very char- 

 acteristic one and important as limiting the northern zoo-geograpliical 

 regions of the litoral. Apart from a few species living in the tropics, 

 in the antarctic and in the deej) sea, the family of C'rangonidie char- 

 acterizes the iiiir/hmi clrriniij>o/tir rii/loii, as defined bv me fbrmerlv.'" 

 This region is characterized by the genera Xift<irrinit/'iii and Sdlnnrd. 

 Among the northern species we can distinguisli true arctic 8|)ecics 

 showing a circumpolar range, especially ('iiiiii/nii sd/i/noKiis, bun an, 

 Xrrtnrrimt/on lar, Sibtiifti mjili iiKuriiKild, and boreal specMes. The 

 latter are not circum[M)lar, Init more restricted. Cnim/oii rnnn/dii 

 itjjiitin is restricted to the I'ac-itic, /'niitoj>liifii^ iionn/li-iis and Ki/iinm 

 Mu-ifl to the Atlantic. The other species arc more localized and char- 

 acterize; each a separate local fauna, and wc ciin dislingnisli a .liipiin- 

 ese fauna, a fauiui of the Beriiigs Sea, a fauna of the western coast of 

 " Ita'cnriliDt; tlic <liHtril>iitiiiii of "an-tic" uml •' liori'.-il " •^•••i^ •-' ■ ri'iilir, 



VlTHIuh. l-tr., IMtl. 



'" JuiiniHclic iH-nkschrifUMi. Vtll, |s!t|, j.. -s. 




!•*•' PKOCKEDINQS OF TIIK AOAI>KMY OK [1895. 



America. Cliaracteristic of the first is Craiujoii (iinjiiKtlniiKla; Poii- 

 tojiliiliin Iniliiildiiis ; of the second, CniiK/oii sliar/il, ('. iiitrr)n(diiif<, 

 NertocraiH/oii <ifa.'<ke)ix!'< ; of tlie third, Craiigon )iiiiiiilits, '('. frducix- 

 coriDii, I''ir(ieriiii(/oii rrliiii(itii.-<.^^ In the Atlantic, we have species 

 peculiar to the European coast*!: Cntnijon cranyon itl/iiKinn!, I'lmUt- 

 philii.techi)iatiiK, P. f</iinoxttn, P. paftrrxoni, P. Hctilpfns, I*, hispinnxiin, 

 P. frlnpinoxiiK, P. fii.-<ciafnf<, P. iii'tj/rctiis, and one peculiar to the east 

 coast of America: P(iiil(i/)Ji!lii.-< hn rlin-oxtriK. 



Accordingly, within the limits of the arctic region we can dis- 

 tinguish three suh-regions: 1. The ((r(fic-circii))iji()l(tr; 2. the At/diitio- 

 hi)fi(tl\ 3. the Pdcific-hiiri'd/. The two latter are divided into local 

 faunas, the Atlantic into the northern European and the fauna of the 

 east coast of United States; the Pacific into the local faunas of the 

 ]ierings Sea, of Japan, and of the west coast of Korth America. 



The arctic literal region is the centre of origin of the fauiily of 

 Craugonidie, and the centre of its development. Tlie geographical 

 distribution of the species not living witiiin the arctic litoral may 

 be characterized and classified as follows: 



1. Survivors of a more cosmopolitan distribution in the tropics of 

 Indo-Malaysia: Pontoearis propeni<alata, P. jieinutia. 



2. Immigrants into the litoral of warmer seas from the northern 

 litoral: Pi)>ifo})h!/iis cataj)hracti(s, P. carinicauda. 



3. Immigrants into the deep sea. 



a. Localized species.'^" North Atlantic: Crangon af/assizt, 200-900 

 fath., Snhinea hfjstrix, 400-900 fath.; Indo-Malaysia: Po)ito))hilun 

 bengalcnuts, 107-270 fath., /^. anchunaiunsin, 180-_'2() fath., P. 

 juncetis, 250 fath., I^ionocraagon omniato.sttres, 200-400 fath.; off 

 Australia: Po ai op hilus profundus, 2000 fatli.; ofl" western coast of 

 Central America: Crangon atrox, 600-700 fath., CV. i^rocax, UOO- 

 9(X) fath., PotitophUus occidental if, 900-2200 fath., Paracrangon 

 (irro/ddiy, 670-fi80 fath. 

 It. Widely distributed abyssal species: PontojjhUitH gracifis, 200- 

 700 lath., J^oiifophilu.s afjgssi, 1700-2200 fath., J^ouloph'dus cliai- 

 lengeri, 1100-27(J0 fath. 



4. Immigrants into the litoral of the antarctic region. 



Crangon onlardiciis, Cr. capeniiix, Ponlojihihix audi a/Is, P. inter- 

 medins. 



•• Paracrangon echinalus is perhaps an abyssal species, judging from tlie 

 depth recorded for Paracrani>ov areolatus. 



''^ Some of these species may be more widely distributed. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OK PHILADELPHIA. 1^7 



The occurrence of tlie 'recently described Aegean orinitn/ls 

 Henderson, from the litoral of the Burmese coast (Gulf of Marta- 

 hem) is remarkable, because this species is said to be related to the 

 Mediterranean Poutophlln.-* cntaphractus. It may, however, belong 

 to the" genus Puiitocari.^, and the de.scriptiou and figure given by 

 Henderson do not refute this supposition. 




19''^ PKOCEEDINGS OK TMK ACADKMY OK [180.'). 



DOES THE DELAWARE WATER GAP CONSIST OF TWO 

 RIVER GORGES 1 



1?Y KM MA \VAi;rKU. 



The Delaware Kivcr passes tliroiiiili the Kittatiniiy or Hlue 

 Mountain l»y a deft nearly at ri<:ht angles to the axis of that ran^e. 

 The entire length of the cut is a little over two miles, but only to 

 the part where it is narrowest or its walls highest and steepest is the 

 term "Water Gap" locally applied. In the following paper, when 

 the Gap is mentioned the entire two miles is included. 



It is clear this remarkable breach in the mountain has been made 

 by river water, and that it is still being deepened by the Delaware, 

 as is stated in the Reports of the Pennsylvania Geological Survey. 



But a study of the marked features of the Water Gap has con- 

 vinced me the Delaware once flowed through it from the south to- 

 wards the north, or in a direction directly opposite to the pre^sent 

 flow of the river; also that this north-flowing river was preglacial 

 and that much the larger part, both of the length and depth of 

 of the Gap, was cut by this old river, the remainder being the work 

 of the present south-flowing river since the Ice Age, the Delaware 

 Water Gap being thus composed of two united river gorges, which 

 have been cut from opposite di^-ections. 



If we examine the work of streams which are now forcing their 

 way through hills or mountains, we will see all do their work upon 

 much the same pattern ; that is, a gorge with a funnel-shaped en- 

 trance opening down stream and contracting to a passage with more 

 or less precipitous sides that suddenly expand into an amphitheatre 

 with very precipitous walls. The curve of this amphitheatre always 

 points up the stream, and over the centre the waters tumble into a 

 pool, the depth of which, at the foot of the fall is often very great, 

 even when the stream is quite shallow in all the rest of its course. 



The upper portion of the Delaware Water Gap is just such a 

 gorge, but its funnel-shaped entrance points up stieau) and iwithnru, 

 as it should if it was the work of the present river. Its amphitheatre 

 rounds down stream instead ol' up as it would if it had been cut by 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PH IJ.ADfJJJ'HI A. 199 



our Delaware. Near tlie northern entrance to the Water Gap are 

 low rapids, over the Clinton rocks; just after the river accomplishes 

 its passage through the mountain it falls in a succession of low 

 rapiils over the Hudson River slates. 



For many miles hoth above and below these two sets of rapids the 

 average depth of the water is only six feet, according to the Geolog- 

 ical Survey, but between them, about a mile and three-quarters be- 

 low the upper, and a quarter of a mile above the lower rapids, is a 

 spot where the river has a surprising depth; no two authorities agree 

 concerning the number of feet. In 1892 the engineer of the little 

 launch which plies to and fro in the Gap, said: "It is 35 feet 

 deep." L. W. Brodhead writes me: "We took soundings about 

 forty years ago and made it 45 feet;" and he adds, 'a sounding 

 some years [)revious reached GO feet, while a century earlier it was 

 thought to be unfathomable." In Penna. Geol. Sur. Rept's. , 

 Vol. G6, the depth is given as 51 feet, while a local Guide Book 

 gives 70 feet. 



Two agencies are, no doubt, slowly lessening this remarkable 

 depth. The gradual cutting down of the whole river bed from this 

 point to sea level and the slow filling of the pool, by the ilfliris 

 droppe<l into its quiet waters in times of freshet. 



At the north entrance of the Water Gap the ])e(l of the river is 

 nearly 1,500 feet wide; in half a mile it has contracted to 400 feet 

 and in the next mile reaches its narrowest, 350 feet. This portion 

 :a neatly a (piarter.of a mile in length, its walls, 1,000 feet high, 

 rise at an average angle of 45°. ^ From 350 feet the channel 

 suddenly widens to an obloiiir pool 500 feet wide and al)out 900 feet 

 long. This pool is bounded by nearly 900 leel of Pennsylvania 

 shore which rises, steeply, to a height of 1,100 feet. The New 

 Jersey side .stretches in a beautiful curve, 2,100 feet long, and rises 

 in part a sheer precipice of 1, <>()() feet, with 200 feet of steep rock 

 still above that. This great curve rounds to the .'^oulh and ends 

 suddenly at the Point of Rocks. It is just opposite this point and 

 not far from the New Jersev shore, the extraordinary, deep water 

 before <le.scribi(l is found. Here, 1 believe, is the cenire of the 

 amphitheatre oj" the gorge of tlie north-Mowing Delaware and (his 

 deep |M)ol marks the s|M)t where the waters of the great river p!iMi_'e<l 

 into the chasm. But the s<>li I roi-k wall over which tluy fell ha.s 

 been breached l)y a cliaiinei I'M) feet wi<le. 'ihrough this u|K-ning 




200 PKOCKKPINQS OK 'I'HK ACADKMY OK [1895. 



the Dclawnre iMitcrs tluit portion of the Wntcr (;:i|) that 1 lielit'VC 

 is the work of tlio pi-cscnt soiith-fh)\viiiu' river. 



Nor is tht' ehanicter of the |)art of the Ciap just descrihed the 

 only evidence tlmt the Dehnvare Kiver in pre-ixhieial times thiwed to 

 the northward. 



In Vol. GG, psige 53, we read, "finding an ohl hnried valley hod 

 from Port Jervis northeastward to the Hudson Kiver at Rondont, 

 * * * the suggestion seemed not unreasonable that the Delaware 

 turned uortheastwanl at Port Jervis and, receiving a large tributary 

 from the south, kept along this old buried valley to the Hudson River. 

 "But," the report continues, " subsequent study of the Delaware 

 Valley, southward * * -'• seemed to render this view uncertain, 

 since the Delaware appears to have flowed through the Kittatinny 

 Mountain, at the Water Gap, during its entire history." 



I think it is clear "the Delaware has flowed through the Gap 

 during its entire history," but that the direction of the flow of the 

 river through the Gap in pre-glacial times was exactly the reverse of 

 its direction since the glacier disappeared. 



In Vol. D3, of Penn. Geol. Sur. Rept's., two remarkable patches of 

 gravel are described. One is at West Bethlehem, the other at 

 Easton. Both lie at a height of 170 feet above the present level of 

 the water in the Delaware at Easton. Upon this gravel rests a 

 boulder clay which contains scratched stones, gravel and clay, to- 

 gether having a thickness of from 25 to 30 feet. The irregularities 

 of the upper line of the gravel are great and ^how it was worn into 

 hollows before the clay was deposited. " This gravel," says tlie 

 report, "is unquestionably a river deposit, a fragment of an ancient 

 river terrace, and could only have been formed by the damming 

 back of descending waters; but there is no evidence of such a dam 

 and no known means for producing it below Easton." 



If the Delaware, at the time it was depositing this gravel was 

 "descending" towards the north, then it is above P^aston and not 

 beloiv that we must look for the means for producing such a dam. 



I think we can find both the "means" and the place, and that 

 they explain not only the gravel but also the boulder clay which 

 lies on top of it. The "means" is the great Ice Sheet, moving 

 southward; the place, where this Ice Sheet eflectually blocked the 

 northward flow of the Delaware. This, undoubtedly, would be at the 

 Water Gap. But, manifestly, a great river flowing far to the uorth. 




1895.] XAT[*RAi> scrEXfF:? or PHir.A'iEr.PHiA. 201 



ward would meet the glacier long before the ice reached the Gap. 

 Pos.sibly the river might find, for a time, a side e.«cape for its waters, 

 without turning hack upon itself. As Prof. J. P. Lesley says, on page 

 1,203 of Summary, Final Ivejjort, Pcun. Geol. Sur. "the Dela- 

 ware River seems to have flowed in ditiereut ages along diflerent 

 lines." When the ice at length tilled the Gap, which is about twenty- 

 three miles a])ove Easton, then the river waters would be ponded 

 back u|x>n themselves and all the debri?; carried by the stream, still 

 flowing from the south, would be dropped where the currents meet. 

 When the ice finally reached its southern limit, marked by the 

 terminal moraine which lies 12 miles above Easton, then, what H. 

 Carvill Lewis, in his "Glacial (ieology of (ireat Britain and Ireland." 

 styles an "extra- moraine lake" would be formed. For he savs: 

 " when glacier or moraine obstructs a stream flowing from outside 

 towards the glacier a lake may be fornied in the non-glaciated area 

 bordering the moraine. .Such lakes are only temporary and are 

 drained when the river has established its new channel. " -'At first 

 thought," Mr. Lewis continues, "it seems a remarkable feat for a 

 river to suddenly begin flowing l)ackward and up stream ; but 

 I can !?how that this feat was actually accomplished in many 

 ca.ses, both in America and England," and farther, "a river having 

 l)egun to flow backward while the ice barred its forward progress, con- 

 tinued to do .so after the ice-wall had retreated and the terminal moraine 

 took its place." On another page we read in the.«ame work, "when 

 a stream was dammed back by the front of the ice, there l)oulder 

 clay full of scratched erratics accumulated, filling the old river 

 valley." 



The change in the direction of the flow of tlic Delaware was no 

 doubt accelerated l)y the general change in the level of the land 

 which we know accompanied the Ice Age, an elevation at the nortii 

 and a depression at the south. In ••(ilacial (ieol. G. IJrit. and Ire." 

 l)efore quoted, it is stated, "there wa« in Pennsylvania a subsidence 

 of l.s() feet at tiile-watcr. The livei-s then emptied much further 

 iidaiid and tiieir channels were much shorter and relativelv stcepei' 

 than now and thus their cutting [)ower would be largelv increa.sed." 

 The great volume of wafer loaded with debris which must have 

 issued fnun the tneiting ice sheet would also add grcativ to the 

 rapidity with which a new channel would l>e cut. 



In a note in 2d (reol. Surv. I'eiiini. Kept, \'ul. L, I'l'if. .1 P. 

 It 




202 J'HO('KFI>INOS (IK THK ACADKMY OF [1H95. 



I>esley calls attention to the curious fact that the i;iav('l deposit at 

 Easton stands nearly u])on the same level with the highest of the 

 I p|>er Delaware terraces above that river. 



The terraces of the Tpper Delaware are a marked and beautiful 

 feature of ita scenery. They are found between Port Jervis and the 

 Water Gap, ot\en as four regular steps. The lirst or lowest is from 

 20 to 20 feet above the river, whiK' the fourth or highest terrace 

 stands at 150 feet above the present river level. Five terraces are 

 all well marked along Hrodhead's Creek, the principal tributary of 

 the Delaware between Port Jervis and the Water Gap. They can 

 also be traced up the "great buried valley" in which the sluggish 

 stream known as Cherry Creek Hows to enter the Delaware just be- 

 low the mouth of Brodhead's Creek and just above the northern 

 entrance to the Gap. 



In Keport L, Prof Lewis says, "these terraces of the Upper 

 Delaware may be due to an ancient obstruction in the Gap backing 

 up the water from the melting glacier to form a lake of considerable 

 size." That these terraces are <>f later formation than the glacial 

 deposits is proved on lirodhead's Creek, where a railroad cutting shows 

 kames partly covered by terrace material. 



Now it will be remembered their positions are directly reversed at 

 Easton; there the glacial material lies on the to{)of the river terrace, 

 showing that the terrace there is the older deposit of the two. 



If the rock in the centre of the ani])hitheatre of the pre-glacial 

 gorge had not been cut down to present river level, when the glacier 

 retreated this rock-wall would certainly stand as "an ancient obstruc- 

 tion iu the Gap, damming back the wateis to form a lake of con- 

 siderable size," or from Port Jervis to the Water Gap. In this lake 

 the waters would rise until they reached the top of the rock-wall and 

 pouring over it the draining of the lake would begin. So the highest 

 terrace of the new river would come to stand nearly upon the same 

 level as the lowest or last of the old river, the new .standing at 150 

 feet and the old at 170 feet above the present water level in the 

 river. Does this difference of 20 feet represent the sum of the 

 fall of the bed of the old river between Easton and the Water Gap 

 and the amount of the erosion by the ice between the same points? 



In Vol. L, page 5 H, H. Carvil Lewis says, "it was a surprising and 

 unexpected fact to tind no tongue of ice was projected through the 

 Gap, which was, as it were, ignored by the glacier. It filled the 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



Gap up with ice but moved diagonally across it." Glacial stri;v all 

 pointing in a direction obliquely across the mountain and the Gap. 

 occur at various heights and on the top of the mountain, but no 

 strife were noted below the Kittatinny House. This hotel stands 

 upon the 120 foot contour line of Chance's map, though according to 

 Mr. Brodhead it i.s 180 feet above the river and is situated just be- 

 low the north entrance to the Gap. 



Above the carriage road, on the Pennsylvania side, not far from 

 the narrowest part of the L-'orge, a series of beautiful, polished, hori- 

 zontal grooves of considerable si/.»' luay be seen : on the perpendicular 

 face of the sand-stone rock, Mr. L. AV. Brodhead gives the height 

 of these grooves above river as l.')0 feet. Their course is nearly at 

 right angles to the direction of the glacial striie on the mountain. 



Whether these are glacial grooves, or whether they are, as seems 

 to me must probable, the result of a swift current of water carrying 

 much debris, they certaiidy show that a ])owerfully erosive agent of 

 some kind passed through the Gap at about the height of 150 feet. 

 Now at this same height stands the upper terrace of the present river, 

 while not far above the same elevation lies the old river gravel, and 

 glacial striie appear to be absent below a nearly equal level. The 

 position of grooves, terrace, old river gravel and absence of glacial 

 striie, so nearly on the same line, is explained, if the rock wall ol' 

 the centre of the amphitheatre .stood somewhere near a height of 150 

 feet at the end of the Ice Age. 



When the water commenced to flow over this rock wall it would 

 l)egiii the cutting of the short lower, or south j)ortion of the Gap. 

 Its walls are very precipitioiis for a short distance and the gorge 

 ends rather suddenly, as the southeastern face of the Kittatinny 

 Mountain is exceedingly bold. This lower gorge extends from the 

 Point of Rocks to the head of tlir rapids over the Hudson Kivcr 

 slates. The width of the channel where the river passes from the 

 up|)er gorge to the lower, as before stated, is 400 feet, but it increases 

 to 800 feet at its wide-spreading mouth. This very rapid curving 

 outward of the walls of the lower gorge, on both sides of the river 

 BO nearly alike, seems to indicate the im|)etuous rush of an in.in(ii?-c 

 IxxJy of water. 



The diH'erence in the character of the bed ot' the present river 

 from Port .lervis to the beginning of the Hudson Kiver slates 

 and from the beginning ol" the Hud.-on Kiver slates to the 




204 



I*H<M'KFIHN(aS OK TWK ACAUKMY OK 



flH95. 



Jfmajo ofiJit 



Cliance'5 

 Ca\itQ\ir Map. 



^eet 



• itt u»« too 

 t-L-l L_ 



J 





J 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



moraine at Belvidere, I tliiuk offers further proof" that the first 

 mentioned portion was cut liefore the CDniinjr of the ice sheet, and the 

 last since the melting of the ice ; for from Port Jervis to the 

 shites the Delaware flows in a deep, ancient river valley or valleys. 

 Its bed, except at a few points where there is a lock bottom for a 

 short distance, is in the glacial drift which still fills the old water 

 coui-se to an unknown depth, even the deepest portion of the Gap 

 itself being so filled, while from the beginniuu: of the slates to 

 Jielvidere. the river has a rock bed, its channel is broad, the valley 

 wide, with hills rising only one or two hundred feet above the river. 



looking southward from the top of Mt. Minsi, on the Pennsylvania 

 side of the southern entrance to the (Jap, from a height of 1,100 

 feet, the country has the appearance of a gently sloping plain nearly 

 to Belvidere, 18 miles away. The fall in the river in this distance 

 is 4A feet per mile, while in the unglaciated area between Belviilere 

 and Eastou the descent is H] feet per mile. This fall, with the vast 

 volume of water which must have continually |)oured through the 

 (Jap during the melting of the ice, would certainly, I think, give a 

 torrent of sufficient force to accomplish the work which I have assumed 

 has l)eeD done since the melting of the ice sheet. 



If I have proven that the gorge from the Point of Hocks to the 

 northern entrance of the Gap was the work of a north-flowing river, 

 and the gorge from the Point of Rocks to the southern entrance of the 

 Gap is the work of the south-flowing Delaware, it follows that the 

 Delaware Water (jiap (lui" consist of two river gorges united, eroded 

 from different directions and in different geological epochs. 




'ii06 PROCEEDINOS <»K THK ACADKMV OF [1895. 



NEW SPECIES OF THE GENUS CERION. 



HV II. A. ni.sliltY AND 1). (;. VANA'ITA. 



Mr. ('. .1. Mayiiard has lately made known certain characters ot" 

 the internal teeth or lamelhe of the .species of the genus Cfiioii 

 founil by cuttinir the .<hell open. By this niean.s many sj)ecies con- 

 siderably alike externally are found to be well distinguished when 

 their interiors are examined. Mr. E. G. \'anatta liaving engaged 

 to make the necessary sections, a considerable portion of the Cerions 

 of tlie Academy's collection has been thus reviewed, and various new 

 S|>ecie3 brought to light, some of which may be briefly diagnosed 

 as follows, further information and tigure.s l)eing reserved for a 

 future communication : — 



Cerion ( Paracerion i tridentatum Pilsbry ;ind Vauatta. 



Shell similar externally to C incmniin, l)ut aperture long, ovate, 

 much higher than wide ; cone of spire longer, several whorls following 

 the nepionic ones densely striate. Parietal lamina small, short, cen- 

 tral, with a smaller accessory denticle to the left of and bevond its 

 inner end, and another lamina slightly to the right and deeper 

 within. Alt. 25-274 ; diam. 9-10 mm. Cuba, R. Swift. 



The section Purucciioii P. and V. is proposed for forms having 

 the tooth arrangement described above. 

 Cerion (Paracerion) basistriatum I', and V. 



Shell allied to C striiitflliini in form and tooth arrangement, but 

 lacking riblets on the intermediate whorls, basal whorl costulate ; 

 substance much thinner. Alt. KiA-lS; diam. 8-9 mm. Cabo 

 Cruz, Cul)a. 



Cerion iMaynardia) felis T. aud V. 



Shell short, stout, cylindrical, with short but straight and rather 

 acute cone; strongly costate throughout (except nepionic whorls), the 

 ribs curved, 10 on penult, and on next earlier whorls, widely spaced. 

 Eutlre surface doxrhj M-uIjitured with imevevly i^pucpd, deep, incised 

 x/jiml HtriiP. Whorls 10, slig)itly convex. Aperture ovate-cordate, 

 nearly as wide as high, over a third the sheH'B length. Lip 




1895.] NATl'RAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 207 



reflexed, thin; parietal lamina strong, .short; axial lamina incon- 

 spicuous in front. Alt. 2S; diam. 12 mm. (at Island. Bahamas. 

 This specie* and the next are peculiarly unlike all others known 

 in being densely, consi)icuously spirally striated. 



Cerion i Haynardia i Johnson! I*, and \'. 



Shell turreted, elongate, fitc /ii-<l irhnrf iriih-^^t, fli> nfjin-s fitnniiifj n 

 tnprriiif/ .■<piif', the earlier whorls of the form seen iu a young Euca- 

 lodium. Snrfnre deiise/ji spirnlhj ."frinti', and hearing very stout, 

 distant ribs; 11 ou j>enult., one or tw(j fewer on earlier whorls. 

 Whorls 11;, C'-ri/ ronir.i: Aperture about one-third the alt., oval- 

 cordate; parietal lamina small. Color cream- white. Alt. o2 ; diam. 

 11 mm. lA)cality unknown; one sjieeimen from coll. ('. W. Johnson. 



This is really the most renu\rkable form of Cerion yet discovered, 

 allied to ('.jrH.-< in .sculpture, but in the tapering contour wholly 

 unlike anything known hitherto in the genus, with the exception of 

 PiijKi xrdhirinii Gundl., which is much smaller, with less attenuated 

 earlier whorls. 

 Cerion ^Maynardiai columna I*, ami V. 



Shell thick, strong, cylindrical or ((ilunni-siiapod, the latter 4-a 

 whorls f)f e«|ual diameter, those pnceding forming a cone of one- 

 fourth the shell's length; bluish-white, llcsh-tinged on cone, some 

 wlnjrls of which are finely, closely striate; the striic then either 

 disappear, leaving the median whorls smooth, or become coarse, 

 wide-spaced, irregular costn' on juedian whorls, stronger on last whorl. 

 Whorls lo, hardly convex. .\|K'rture small, le>s than one-third the 

 alt., long-ovate, gotliic- angular above ; interior deep purple-brown, 

 often l)ceoming red-brown toward the white lip, which is everywhere 

 revolutely reMexed, but not thickened. Tarietal tooth strong and 

 ( for a Mdifnnrili'i I long. Axial lamina moderate. .\lt. 4()':diaMi. 

 12A mm. Inagua. 



Differs from the closely allie<l < '. iiifiniilu in the smaller and colnreil 

 aperture, les^s compre.«sed liodv-whorl, etc.; from C rnjiini it differs 

 in the more elongate form, colore<l mouth and less excavated umbil- 

 ical tract; from ('. ii'i/linn in the more slender contour, etc. It 

 resembles in shape, I'lijui rnliirm I'fV.; but that Bpecies is far more 

 obtuse than any of the dozen specimens of this Itefore us. A variety 

 which may be called v. ni/iiln is smaller, strongly and sulireu'iihirly 

 coetate throughout. Inagua. ,\lt .'i-l; diam. 1();|. nun. 




20^ PROCERDINOS OK THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



Cerion i Maynardia i regina I', and V. 



Shell like C m/iiun Bens, in form, color, and the expanded, ex- 

 cavated umbilical area; lip narrower; ribless except on the last 

 whorl, which has few irregularly spaced ribs, or in some specimens 

 uneven, sparse ribs are found throughout the cylindrical jiortioii. 

 Parietal tooth short. Alt. 80-;{.Sl ; diam. 12 mm. Turk's Island 

 (Swift, Gabb). 



This species has affinities with ('. ro/nnnid o[' Inaj,'ua, ( '. rcf/iinii 

 of Castle Island, ('. Irntii/litoKion iiml ('. n/binn of Kum ("ay. The 

 first is more elongated and pillar-like, with very dark mouth; the 

 second is stouter, heavier, with far wider, thicker lip — in fact, a lip 

 of quite Ethiopian characteristics; and the two forms from Rum Cay 

 are distinguished from all the preceding by the close, even micro- 

 scopic costulation of their earlier whorls. 



C. regina percostatum V. and V. 



Form of shell and moutli as in ('. rer/iim ; but whole surface except 

 nepionic apex, regularly ribbed, as in Stmphia albii Mayn., except 

 that the ribs on cylindrical portion are wider spaced. White, much 

 mottled and clouded with brown. Holds the same relation to ('. 

 >T7//*'A that r//6'0« holds toward /futigliiDKum. Alt. 35;; diam. LS 

 mm.; often smaller in the same proportions or comparatively wider. 

 Mouth longer than in <'. nlbiim Mayn. Turk's Island. 



Cerion regina comes P. and V. 



Shell with the form, size and sculj)ture of C. rrylmt, but coloring 

 of ('. Ii'xfifjinositni Mayn.; heavily streaked and blotched with chest- 

 nut brown, on the cone finely speckled and zigzagged. Turk's 

 Island. (Swift, Gabb, d al.) 



Cerion regina Swiftii P. and V. 



Shell with the elongated form and large, excavated umbilical 

 tract of C. re(/tiia, but smaller, thinner, ilisfhicthj In/icriiif/ from the 

 body- whorl upward; parietal callus very heavy in adults, parietal 

 lamina low, deep-seated. Color varying from white to chestnut, 

 streaked and speckled with white. Alt. 26; diam. 10 mm. Turk's 

 Island. (C. Blume, in Robert Swift collection, A. N. S. ) 

 Cerion regina eucosmium 1'. and \'. 



Shell with the form and size of regina, but smooth, glossy, rib- 

 less, or with a few irreg\ilar ribs on body-whorl ; livid, pinkish- 

 brown, streaked and speckled with white. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209 



Cerion regina brevispira P. and V. 



Shell short, pupitbrni, compact ; lower two whorls of equal diam- 

 eter, those above tapering to form a short cone. Whorls 8-9, all 

 but the last one smooth, the last more or less ribbed ; umbilical 

 chink deep, the area below it excavated. Aperture much exceed- 

 ing one-third the length of shell, ovate, purple within; peristome 

 narrowly reflexed, not thickened, white; parietal callus impercep- 

 tible; parietal lamina small, rather short, deep-seated. Axial 

 lamina small. White, boldly streaked and blotched with rich 

 brown. Alt. 22, diam. 10 mm. or smaller. Apert., alt. 9.5; width 

 8.3 mm. Turk's Island. ( W. M. Gabb.) 



This form looks very distinct from C. regina, and we have no 

 intermediate specimens; but it occurs on the same small island, and 

 may prove to be only a sub-species of that form. 



Cerion (Maynardiai maritimum var. sublaevigatum (Pfr. ) P. and V. 



Similar to mnrllinid, Init lacking costula-. Matanzas, etc., Cul)a. 

 (Strophia marilima Maynard, Monogr. p. 127, seems to be this, 

 rather than the typical maritima. ) 



Cerion (Maynardia) abacoensis P. and V. 



Shell like ('trioii (ilhinn Maynard in form, sculpture and color, 

 or rather shorter; differing in the mf)re closed, shallower, far shorter 

 umbilical rinuition and very much smaller umbilical area behind 

 columcUar lip, and in the thicker lip. Alt. 82; diam. 12^ mm.; 

 alt. 27 i; diam. \'.i nun. Abaco I. (Bland.). 



Cerion (Maynardia) incanoides P. and V. 



Shell resembling ('. incannm in general aspect. Very thin; 

 cylindrical, the lower three whorls of equal diameter, those above 

 forming a convex, obtuse cone. Surface nearly smooth, as in »S'. 

 inraiia ; white or Heshy-white, the two nepionic whorls corneous 

 brown, the following whorls of cone finely variegated with zigzag 

 brown marking and speckling. Whorls 10, almost flat. Aperture 

 ovate-truncate, brown inside; parietal lamina low and rather short ; 

 axial lamina sharp, strong within lafit whorl, Imt not over a whorl 

 long; peristome narrowly reflexed, white, thin ; parietal cullus rather 

 thin ; umbilical rinuition deep, sometinics |)erfbrate, the area IkIow 

 it broad, excavated, flaring. Alt. 30; diam. 11 mn>.; alt. of apert. 

 11; diam. 9 mm. 'lurk's Isbiiul. 

 15 




•J 10 



l'l{()C'i:i;i)IN<JS OK TlIK ACAKKMY OK 



[1895. 



This species belongs clearly lotln' ;^roiip of" (\ rcijinn, Inii'ni'nioKum, 

 etc., but it is a very thin .shell, smooth like hiniiin, with which it 

 has prohahly been confused in collections. 

 Cerion (Maynardia) Maynardi V. tind V. 



Shell larj^e, strong, cylindrical, white or fleshy in the intervals 

 between strony', slightly curved ribs, separated by three times their 

 width on the cylindrical portion, which consists of 3 to 4 whorls; 

 those above forming a short cone on which the ribs are much closer. 

 Whorls 11], flat, the la,'*t ascending, becoming attenuated down- 

 ward, but with well rounded base, upon which the ribs arc obsolete, 

 but replaced by fine costultie. Umbilical rimation very deep, the 

 area below it rather wide, bounded by a spiral groove well within 

 the basal margin of uml)ilical tract. Aperture ovate-truncate, brown 

 within; parietal lamina very strong, thick but short; axial lamina 

 small, one whorl long. Peristome stout, broadly reflexed, its face 

 convexly thickened but not "duplicate;" broadly vaulted over the 

 umbilical region; parietal callus varying from thin to heavy. Alt. 

 85; diam. 15 mm.; apert. alt. 14; width 12 mm. Some specimens 

 fall under, some exceed these dimensions. Abaco, Bahamas. (Robert 

 Swift. ) Larger and coarser than C abacoensis, and w itli far deeper 

 umbilical rimation and distant ribs. 



Cerion (Maynardia) yumaensis P. and V. 



Shell cylindrical, the lower three whorls of equal diameter, those above 

 tapering rapidly to form ashortcone; white,mottled with fleshy-corneous 

 above, or having this color appear in sparse streaks, or in most or 

 all the intervals between the opaque white riblets throughout the 

 shell. Surface evenly, regularly and closely ribbed, the ri])S sep- 

 arated by intervals slightly greater than their own width, about 29 

 on penult, whorl. Whorls 9^, the earlier two corneous, first one 

 smooth, next very minutely radially striate. Last whorl rounded 

 below. Umbilical chink much compressed, the tract below it semi- 

 lunar, defined by a groove. Aperture truncate-ovate, brown within; 

 parietal lamina small, short. Columella tnnicated obliquely; lip 

 expanded, not thickened; the parietal callus light. Alt. 24^ ; diam. 

 9 J mm. Yuma River, Hayti (Henry Prime) ; San Domingo (Gabb; 

 Salle). While superficially like ('. striafeUinn, the different arma- 

 ture of the parietal wall at once distinguishes this species. The 

 parietal lamina is mu(;h reduced, almost absent in some specimens. 




1895.] nati:kal scikncks or- imiii.adki.phia. 211 



Ai'UiL 2, 1S95. 

 The President, (jKNEKAI. Wistau, in the Chair. 

 Forty-six persons present. 



Mr. Henry A. Pilsl)ry was elected a Curator for the unexpired 

 term of the late Dr. W. S. W. Kuschenberger. 



AiMtii. 9. 

 The President, Gkni:kai. Wistah, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-four persons present. 



The following n)inute wa.s presented from the HioIoLrical and Mi- 

 croscopical Section and uiianiniously adopted : 



JOHN .V. K^'DKU, Ph. D. 



In view of the death of our colleague, Dr. John A. Ryder, it is 

 the sense of the Biological and Microscojncal iSection of the Academy 

 of Natural S<nences of Philadelphia that a minute he recorded to 

 express the great regret of the Section and its> deep ap|)reciation of 

 the loss it has sustained in his untimely decease. 



Dr. Ryder was elected amember of the Acailemy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia January 29, 1878, and shortly after that date began to 

 attend the meetings of the Section and frc<piently made interesting com- 

 munications, lie became a member of the Section November 15, ISSO, 

 and at the ainuial meeting in the same year he was chosen Director, 

 which office he held until the close of 1888. Many of his commu- 

 nications made before tin; Section were verbal an<l were, to a large 

 extent, a resume or re|>ort of his own current work, and also of that 

 of other investigators at home and abroad, who were working in 

 lines similar to his own. The subjects treated in these communica- 

 tions iiicludi^d myology, end)ryology, histolr>gy, microscopic tech- 

 ni(iue, mabicojogy, comparative anatomy and kindred biological 

 studies. Most of thi'se comminiiirritions afterward appeared in print 

 in the Proceedings of the Academy or elsewhere. 

 \ii 




21 'J 



PROCKKDINGS OF TIIK ACAPKMY OF 



[1.H95. 



|)r. Kvilors oarm-ftiiess of piirpoae and iiilun.se iiili'ivt^t in liis 

 studies could not fail to impress and stimulate his fellow mend)er8, 

 while his wonderful nieiiiniv and ohli^in^ disposition were often 

 appealed to l)v them, and it was very rarely that he could not fur- 

 nish the desired information. P^specially was this true of his knowl- 

 edge and recollection of scientific literature ; on many subjects he 

 couhl give an almost complete bibliography from memory. 



In deeply deploring the early death ot Dr. Ryder, which occurred 

 at the height of his scientilic vigor, the Section but voices the senti- 

 ment of the entire biological world. 

 ^Signed) 



n AK(tl,l» WiNCiATK, I 



Amo.s p. IjUown, ■ t'onimUtee. 

 II. F. Moore, J 



Apiui. 16. 

 The President, General Wistau, in the Chair. 

 Thirty-four persons present.. 



The deaths of the following Correspondents were announced : — 

 John Whitaker Hulke, of London, G. B. ; Gaston de Saporta, of 



Aix, Germany, and James Dwight Dana, of New Haven, Conn. 

 The following papers were presenti-d for publication : — 

 New species of the genus Cerion. By Henry A. Pilsliry muX 



E. G. Vanatta. 



Notes on Varying Hares of Washington and British Cohnnbia, 



with description of a new sul)Species. By Samuel N. Rhoads. 



April 23. 

 The President, General Wistar, in the Chair. 



Thirty-one persons |)reseut. 



A pajjer entitled " Distribution of the American Bison in Penn- 

 sylvania, with remarks on a new fossil species," by Samuel N. 

 Rhoads, was presented for publication. 



April 'M). 

 The President, Geni;ual Wihtak, in the chair. 

 Twenty-seven persons present. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCKS OF PHILAnKLPH I A. 213 



A paper entitled "On the Priuiity «>f the names C'alliste. Aglaia 

 and Calospiza and their use in Ornithology," l)v Witnier Stone, 

 was presented for puldication. 



Mr. Thomas Meehan was apjiointed Chairman of tlie Tuldication 

 Committee to succeed the hite Mr. Keiltield. 



Dr. .Samuel G. Dixon wa.s app<»inted a nuMuher of the Lil)rarv 

 Committee to succeed the late Dr. Kuschenberger. 



Messrs. Persifor Frazer, Angelo Heilprin, J. P. Lesley, iJenJ. 

 Smith Lyman and Theodore D. Hand were appointed mend)ers of 

 the Hayden Memorial (ieological Conunittee. 



Mr. William W. Jetferis was appointed Curator of the William 

 S. Vaux Collections. 



The followinir were ordered to he printed : 




214 



lM{<K'l-;i:i>!N(iS OK TIIK A<"AI>KMY OK 



[IHOr). 



DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES OF ACHATINELLIDJE FKOM THE 

 HAWAIIAN ISLANDS. 



1!Y 1). I). i:.\ I,1>\V1N. 



At the present time llu' total iiuiiiher of descrihed sj)ecie8 of ^c//«- 

 tiiii'llit, after eliiniiiatiug the Auriculella Jiiul Leptarhtl'nia, is al)out 

 380. Of these 102 are manifest synonyms or varieties. Some of 

 the remaining; s|)ec'i('.s are closely allied, and nearly all exceeilingly 

 variable. 



In the past twenty years only five species have heen added to the 

 list, thongh dnring this period several new regions have heen explored 

 and nniny new forms discovered. Strange as it may appear, large 

 districts remain yet to be explored. These will require much re- 

 search, as well as considerable time before the molhiscan life and its 

 exact distribution can be fully ascertained, fo.r the habitats of the 

 Acli(ifiiiel/a are our lofty and rugged nioiuitains, covered with almost 

 impenetrable forest jungles, and furrowed by deep gorges, often diffi- 

 cult of access, a species beinir often restricted to a single isolated 

 mountain ridge or gorge. 



The inconstant and variable characters which many of the species 

 of AchiihicUa exhibit, the uncertainty of some of the species already 

 published, and. the somewhat confused synonymy of the group, all 

 contribute to render difficult the matter of affirming new species. 

 Of great importance is the geographical position or distribution of a 

 species. Differences in the external appearance and col(>r of the 

 animals furnish specific tests of essential value. Peculiarities in the 

 sculpturing and color of the earlier or embryonic whorls have proved 

 of value in determining some of the species. An experience also of 

 over forty years in collecting and studying the hal)itat3 and distribu- 

 tion of AcIititliieKn may be to some extent a guarantee for the 

 validity of the new species herewith presented. 



We are indebted to Rev. Prof. Gvvatkin, of Cambridge, England, 

 and Mr. H. Suter, of New Zealand, for notes regarding the lingual 

 dentition of the s[)ecies of A(h<ifhieU<t. They indicate two very dis- 

 tinct divisions of the genu.s, as founded on tli(; .-tructiire of the radnla. 




1895.] NATIHAI. SC'IKNCES (»K IM 11 1.ADKI.PH I A. 215 



Section first. No jaw ; only a chitiiioiis, transparent membrane 

 coverinir the lips. Katlula liroad, ohloiijr. Teeth of the radula very 

 numerous, en chevron, rows sloping ol)li»juely backward; the central 

 tooth long and slender, often obsolete; the laterals and marginals all 

 of the same type, base narrow, head rather broad, the denticles 

 varying in number from five to seven, in the last marginal from four 

 to two. 



To this section belong the following snl>geiiera of Arliiiti)ie//<i, viz. : 

 ArJiathielhiHtriDn Pfr. ; Bnlimelht Pfr ; Ajiex von Martens; Partn- 

 fiiiii Pfr.; Xeu'ftniibiii Pfr.; and Klntnirlln and PnrUccUd of Pease. 

 The species of thef^e subgenera are all ari)oreal in their habit, and 

 their dentition is practically indistinguishable, exce})! that in some 

 species the central tooth is absent or slightly varied. 

 • Section .tecniid. Anw present; arcuate, strong, not riblnd. Kadula 

 oltlong, not wide. Teeth (|uailraic. in nearly straight rows: centrals 

 small, narrow, sometimes faintly trii-uspid; laterals larger, biruspi<l; 

 marginals bicuspid or tnulticuspid. 



To this section belong tlie subgenera Amnstrn II. ct A. Ad., and 

 Ldiiiiiiifhi Pfr. The species of the former are terrestrial, and those 

 of the lattJT eitlier terrestrial or living on low shrubs. The dilferences 

 in the number of teeth are >ina!l, and the variations of shape trifling. 



It thus appears that in the majority of the generally accepted 

 subgenera of Aclinliinffn there is no po.ssibilitv of separating the 

 sections by dillerences in the i'omt of dentition. The terrestrial 

 8|)ecies. or those tending to terrestrial hal)its, are (characterized by 

 the [)re-<ence of a jaw; the arboreal s[)eeies, by its absence. The 

 group Ainuxtin. including perliaps Lmiiiiii llu, arc entitled to .se|)arate 

 generic rank. 



Section ACHATINELLASTRUM PlViM-.-r. 



Achati-.ella multizonata, n. h|<. I'l. X, lius. I, 'Z. 



Sludl dextral, imperforate, moderately solid, elongatelv conical, 

 apex >ul)a< lite, surlsu-e shining, striate<l with line liru-s of growth, 

 under a stronir lens showing very numerous, extremely minute de- 

 cussating striie; apical whorls smooth, scarcely decussated. ( 'olor 

 white, variously strrpcfl witli numerous dark brown lines and bands, 

 sonn; on the ba.se and others spiral. Whorls (>, lightly margiiuile 

 above, convex ; suture lightly im|>res.s<l. .Xpertiin- oblicpie, oval, 

 white, the dark bands of llie exterior visible within; |Mri.-tonie 




-l'> PKOCKKDINOS OK TlIK A(AI>K>rY OK [1895. 



nciito, tliickciu'il williin, sliirlitly cxpaiuled, wliilc, tlii' dark lines of 

 the t'Xterior marknl on tin- inner e(l«;e ; eoluinelhi iiurplisli Itrown, 

 terniinalinti in a strong-, ol)li(|ue, tortnous fold. 



LtMiirtli, IS; diani. , 10 nim. 



Hal>itat, Nunanu N'alley, Oaliu. 



Animal, wlieii «>xleiid('d in motion, ioiitrrr than the shell. Arnntle 

 hrown, lii^hler on the onter edge. Foot ahove and Itelow light 

 iu'own ; posterior |M)rtion tapering. Tentacles long and slender; these, 

 with the head ahove, slate color. 



A great variety of transition forms occur l)etween this species and 

 A. helhiln Smith, which is fonnd on the neighhoring monntain 

 ridges ot Nnuanu N'alley, and is a much largershell. The animals 

 of the two extremes are specifically ditterent. The mantle of the 

 latter is hiack, whereas that of the former is hrown, and that of the 

 intermediate forms varies from hIack to hrown. 

 Aohatinella Juddii, ii. sp. PI. X. Iij;s. 3, \. 



Shell dcxtral, imperforate, .solid, j)yramidally conical, apex oh- 

 tuse ; surface shining, covered with very delicate incremental lines ; 

 the nuclear whorls smooth. Color light gray, shading into light 

 chestnut on the apical whorls, the gray more intense under the 

 cuticle ; with two black lines, one below and one at the periphery, 

 the latter faint and continued on the spire; between the lines a white 

 hand which revolves on the suture to the very tip of the apex. 

 Whorls 0, margined above, slightly convex ; suture lightly im- 

 pres.sed. Aperture oblique, oval, white, the light gray of the ex- 

 terior surface exhibiting a darker shade within; peristome acute, 

 slightly thickened within, a little expanded, columellar margin very 

 slightly reflected, white, the coloring of the exterior dark lines reap- 

 pearing rather more intense on the inner edge ; columella white, 

 terminating in a moderately developed flexuons fold. 



Length, 15; diam., S)}, mm. 



Habitat, Halawa, Island of Oahu. 



No op))ortnnity for an examination of the animal has yet occurred. 

 The shell is typically very di.stinct from any other known species. The 

 light chestnut band on the apical whorls is a characteristic and in- 

 variable feature. The basal portion of the shell sometimes has a 

 yellowish hue. In immature shells the colors are more intense. 



Named in honor of Hon. A. F. Judd, Chief Justice of the Re- 

 public of Hawaii, by who.se son the shell waa discovered. 




1^95.] XATl'RAL SCIENCES OF PHILADKI.PHIA. 217 



Aohatinella Ernestina, n. sp. PI. X, figs. 5, 6. 



Shell sinistral, suhperforate, moderately solid, ovately conical: 

 apex subacute ; surface shining, obliquely striated with delicate 

 growth lines, under a strong lens exhibiting numerous, very close, 

 and minute decussating striie ; apical whorls smooth, scarcely decus- 

 sated. Color yellow, lighter above ; variously striped with trans- 

 verse, dark chestnut bands, the more constant being one bordering 

 the suture, one at the periphery, spiral alx)ve. and one encircling the 

 base. Whorls 6, narrowly margined above, somewhat convex ; 

 suture moderately impressed. Aperture oblique, oval, faintly ex- 

 hibiting the dark bands of the exterior; peristome acute, somewhat 

 thickened within, slightly expanded, white, the coloring of the ex- 

 terior bands appearing on the inner edge; columella white, termi- 

 nating in a prominent, oblique, tortuous fohl. 



length, 21 ; diam. , 12 mm. 



Habitat, Nuuanu Valley, Island of Oahu. 



The animal, when extended in motion, as long as the shell. Man- 

 tle light brown, sprinkled with black and margined on the outer edge 

 with an interrupted reddish- yellow line. Superior portion of foot 

 liirht brown, thickly studded with small slate spots ; under portion 

 of foot light brown with a slate tinge. Tentacles dark slate. 



This species is found near the mountain ridge separating the 

 habitats of .1. rm^fnntu Rve. and -1. fnitroHnratu Smith ; and in 

 general appearance and characters it is intermediate between these 

 species. It is mu(;h smaller than the former and rather larger than 

 the latter, and flitters from them Ixitli in the arrangement of colors. 

 Transition forms between it and both <if them are numerous. An item 

 of s|)f;cific value is the difference in the extrriur a|»pearanct ami coidr 

 of the animals. 



Section BULIMELLA I'lVidV r. 

 Achatinella luteostoma, n. s|>. I'l. X. fiKH. 7. h. 



Shell .sinistral, imfierforafe, solid, ovate, spire convexly conical, 

 'A\w\ obtuse; surfac«' .«hiniriL'. marked with tiiu- growth lines, iin<ler 

 a strong lens seen to be decussated bv chtse, extremelv niinulf 

 spiral striic. apical whorls smooth. Color whiU*. with a rfddi.>.|i- 

 yellow lij). Whorls ')A, marLrined above, sliirhtly convex. Suture 

 moderately in)pre.«sed. 



Aperture oblirpie, sinuntelv oval, wliite williin. Lip obtuse, 




-1-*^ iM«)('KKiuN()s oi' riiK ACAi>i:.M V oi' [ 1 S5)r>. 



thiokened within, columellar nmrtriii very slijjhliy retloxcd, extremi- 

 ties united by n very thin yellowish callus. Columella reddish 

 yellow, teriniiiatinjr in a strong tortuous fold. 



Lenirth, lo^ ; diam., i>A mm. 



Hahitat, Palolo to Niu, Island ol" Ouliu. 



It is liiifimellit rosea Swains, var. Hartman, Proceedings Acad- 

 emy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, Jan. ;i], 188S, p. 80. 



In occasional examples the basal portion l)elow the ))eriphery is 

 light brown, and sometimes a bright chestnut spiral baml encircles 

 the periphery. 



Dr. Hartman. in his valuable Synonymic Catalogue of" Aclm- 

 tinella, has noted this species as a small variety of A. rosea Swains. 

 When we sent him the shell we were unacquainted with the animal. 

 This proves very different from that of .1. rosea ; and further, the 

 habitats of the two species are separated by a forty mile range of 

 wild mountain ridges and valleys which do not contain any species 

 intermediate or connecting the two. 



Achatinella Lyonsiana, n. sp. IM. X, figs, n, lo, 11. 



Shell sinistral, imperforate, .solid, ovate; spire convexly conical, 

 apex obtuse ; surface shining, striated with delicate growth lines ; 

 apical whorls smootii. Color wlrite, with two redilisli-brown bands, 

 one encircling the base, the other pas.sing around the periphery and 

 revolving on the spire just above the suture ; the two bamls are 

 sometimes confluent, and often the shell is uniform white, without 

 bands. Whorls 6, narrowly nuirgined above, somewhat convex ; 

 suture moderately impressed. Ajjerture oblique, white within, sinu- 

 ately oval ; peristome white, rather obtuse, thickened within, basal 

 ami columellar margins slightly expanded, extremities united by a 

 very thin callus ; columella terminating in a strong, tortuous, white 

 fold. 



Length, 17 ; diam., 11 2 mm. 



Habitat, Konahuaiiui Mt. , Lsland of Oahu ; at an altitude of 

 about 0,000 feet above sea level. 



Animal : Mantle black, sometimes mottIe<l with white, margined 

 with a nairow line of lighter shade. Supeiior and under portion of 

 foot light brown. Tentacles, tentacular sheath, and front above 

 very dark brown. 



The form of dentition of this and the other arb(jreal species of 




1895.1 XATIKAL SCIENCES OF IMI I l,AIiK[,PHI A. 219 



Achatinella is given in the preface to this article. The species has 

 a central tooth which is long ami slender, with a small retlection and 

 two minute cutting points. (H. Suter. ) 



This distinct species is dedicated to Prof. A. B. Lyons, of Oaiui 

 College, who has dune much to stimulate the study of the Hawaiian 

 land fauna. 



Achatinella Lymaniana, ii. ^p. I'l. X. figs. 12, 13. 



Shell sinistral, very minutely perforated, solid, ovate; spire coii- 

 vexly conical, apex subacute; surface shining, covered with fine 

 incremental lines, under a stnjug lens showing minute decussating 

 stria' ; apicJil whorls smooth, when not eroded. Color dark purplish 

 brown, sometimes with longitudinal or transverse white flecks or 

 zigzag lines ; a white line traversing the suture ; apex light chestnut. 

 Wiiorls (i, very lightly niargined above, somewhat convex ; suture 

 moderately impressed. Aperture oblique, white within, sublimate ; 

 peristome acute, thickened within, expanded, the columellar margin 

 slightly retlexed and covering the small perforation, color white on 

 both face and the rever.se ; columella white, terminating in a slightly 

 developed Hexuous fold. 



Ijength, 20 J ; diam., 11] mm. 



Habitat, Waiaiuie Mts., Island of Oahu. 



No opportunity for an examination of the animal has yet occurred. 



This specie,s is typically very <]istinct from any other known species 

 of the iiulimoid .section of Arlnitiiir/hi. 



Named in honor of Mr. Ernest Lyman, to whom science is in- 

 debted for many additions to Hawaiian land sliells. 



Bection APEX von Martens. 

 Achatinella vespertina, ii. sp. I'l. .\ . lii;. It. 



Shell dextral, minutely perforated,. '^olid, glul)ose, with the spire coni- 

 cal, lateral outlines slightly conciiye, apex stdiacute; surface shin- 

 intr. striated with <ielicate growth lines; a|)ical u liorls Hmootli. < )f 

 u uniform dedicate cream color, lighter on the upper whorls and 

 suture>( ; sometimes with a few faint, white transverse lines on the 

 lower whorl. Whorls (!, narrowly margined above, the tirsi three 

 plain, the rest slightly fronvex, the last somewhat intlated; suture 

 lightly inipna.sed. .Aperture very oblicpie, oval, while within; peris- 

 tome while, acute, thickened uilliiu, ."omewhat expjinded, the basid 




220 l'l«»("KKI)!NGS OK THK ACAMKMY OK [ISIK). 



iniiriifin slitrhtly nHcctiMl, tlie coliirnellar margin forniinji; n siinKtiis 

 ridgt! arotind tlui uiul)ili(Mis, cxlreniities united 1)V a very lliiii cal- 

 lasity; colimiclla teniiinatini!; in a stronj;^. nuiiid, white hiliciclc. 



IxMiixtli, 21 : diani. 14' nnn. 



Hal)itat, Kawailoa, Island ()I'()mIiii. 



Animal wlicn extendeil in motion, lonjzer tlian tlic sludl. Mantle 

 and tentacles hiown, the latter with the head ahove, of darker shade. 

 Foot liijht ytdlow. the superior portion of darker hue. 



The nearest allied species is .1. iS'm'(/'<// Nevvc. ; hut the shape 

 and color of the shell, separate hahitat. and difference of animal, 

 entitle it to rank as a distinct species. 



TIk- native Ilawaiians firmly believe in the power of Acli(ifiiie/hi 

 to produce musical sounds. Hence the Hawaiian name, ''piijni 

 kanloe,'''' singing shells. Their legends ascribe to them a vesper 

 song. 



Achatinella Cookei, n. sp. PI. X, tig. 15. 



Shell dextral, subperforate, solid, globose, with spire regularly 

 conical, apex sidiacnte; surface shining, marked with fine incre- 

 mental lines; the apical whorls smooth. Color, basal portion below 

 the periphery jet black or sometimes brownish black, the apex 

 white, rest of the shell very light brown, darker on the sutural mar- 

 gin. Whorls (), margined above, the first three plain, the rest con- 

 vex, the last inflated ; suture well impressed. Aperture very 

 oblifpie, oval, white within; peristome obtuse, slightly thickened 

 within, narrowlv reflexed, the columellar margin forming an obtuse, 

 sinuous ridge, with the small umbilical cleft almost covered by it; 

 extremities united by a thin callus; color purplish brown on both 

 face and the reflexed portion; columella terminating in a strong, 

 flexuous tubercle, tinged with purplish brown. 



Length, 21 ; diam. 15 mm. 



Habitat. Waiau, Ewa, Island of Oahu. 



Animal: Mantle dark slate with a narrow brown band encircling 

 the outer edge. Superior portion of foot light brown, mottled with 

 slate, under surface dingy white. 



This species is rare and very local in its distribution. It has 

 affinities with A. tnrf/i/h/ Newc. , which is found in the same dis- 

 trict, but differs somewhat in form and in the peristome. We are 

 unacquainted with the animal of A. fun/Ida. If it proves identi- 




189").] NATURAI, SCIENCES (H' I'Hl I.A PKI.l'II I A. 221 



cal with that of A. ('i>ok>'i, the latter niiisl rank as a variety of the 

 former. 



Named in honor of Hon. C M. Cooke, hv whose sons the shell 

 was (li.S(;overe<l. 



Section PARTULINA Pfeitier. 

 Achatinella Dolei, n. >\>. IM. X, tins. 17. 18. 



Shell sinistral, minutely perforatetl, s.^niewhat solid, aenni inately 

 ovate conic, aj)ex acute ; surface sllininL^ marked with delicate incre- 

 mental striie, under a lens exIiihitiiiL; extremely close, minute, de- 

 cussating spiral striie; nuclear whorls faintlv crossdined. Color 

 white, encircled helow the peripherv with a hrownish Mack hand, 

 and at the [)eriphery and ahove with more or less numerous, deli- 

 cate, chestnut, spiral lines, which hecome fainter on the middle 

 whorls and obsolete ahove. Whorls (»■', narrowly marfrined al»ove, 

 convex ; the last somewhat intiated. roundiv angulated at the peri- 

 phery and flattened on the hane ; suture <leeply impressed. Aper- 

 ture oblique, roiindiv ovate, flattened on the hasal margin, white, 

 exhibiting the brown maikings of the exterior : peristome acute, 

 angled at the j)eriphery, slightly thickened within, expanded, ba.*al 

 and columellar margins narrowly rcHexed ; ictbimclla lerminating 

 in a long, Hexuous, white plait. 



IxMigth, 24 i ; diam. 14 mm. 



MabitMl, Honomanu, Island of Maui. 



Animal when extendeil in motion longer thnn the shell. Mantle 

 intensely black with a broad outer margin of vellow and a conspicu- 

 ous orange spot in tlw center ni' iIh- margin. Foot l!i|)eiing lieliind, 

 above and below light yellow. Tentacles lung and slender. Ii:^lil 

 slate. IIea<l above lightly granulated. 



The dentition of this and the preceding Sjiecies, as observe il by 

 Mr. Suter, does not ditler materially from that of the arboreal Acha- 

 tinelliLs generallv. In both of the.se s|)ecies "a long and slender cen 

 tral tooth !.>♦ preseii*. 



We found this species very |)lentiful at the aixtve locality, in the 

 humid forests f)f the exterior slope of Ilaleaknbi crater, :it !in nlli- 

 tude of 7,000 feet above sea level. The dark band bchiw the peri- 

 phery is a constant feature. The nearest allied .species is .1. 

 Hjilnnliihi Newc.. of West Maui. It differs, however, from this in 

 the siib-anL'ubited p( riplierv, flattened luise, :iiid inites.^ellaled upper 




222 I'KOC'KKDINOS OK TMK ACAKKMY uK [ 1 -Hi)'). 



whorls. Tin- animals are also (litU'rtMit, and tlic iialtituts widely 

 si'|)a rated. 



We take pleasure in dedieating tliis beautiful shell to Hi.s K.\- 

 eelleney S. li. Dole, First Tresident of the Re|)ul)lie of Hawaii, a 

 gentleman noted for attainments in natural as well as political seience. 

 Aohatinella nivea, n. sp. I'l. X. tij;. 10. 



Shell sinistral, suhperforate, somewhat solid, acuminately ovate 

 conic, apex acute; surface highly pttlished, obliquely striateil with 

 fine lines of growth, luid under a lens showing very close and 

 delicate decussating spiral stria' ; nuclear whorls faintly decussated. 

 Color white, encircled with a narrow, pale chestnut band on or a 

 little below the periphery. Whorls 7, slightly marginate above, 

 Hatlv convex, the last with a somewhat angular periphery and 

 flattened base. Suture slightly impressed. 



Aperture oblique, roundly oval, white, the chestnut band of the 

 exterior visible within. Peristome white, acute, thickened within, 

 expanded, ba.sal and columellar margins narrowly reHexed, extrem- 

 ities joined by a very thin white callus. Columella white, ter- 

 minating in a moderately developed, flexuoiis plait. 



Length, 24 ; diani. 14 mm. 



Habitat, Makawao to Huelo, Island of Maui. 



Animal when extended in motion longer than the shell. Mantle 

 densely black with minute brown flecks and a broad yellowish band 

 encircling the outer edge. Tentacles and superior portion of loot 

 brown with a slight slate tinge; under portion of foot light brown. 

 Front above covered with light granulations. 



I have before me over 500 examples of this species, which are 

 without variety in color or shape. The jjeripheral chestnut band 

 is a constant feature. It may be readily distinguished from 

 Ac.hatinelht Tappaniana Adams, by its more slender form and 

 convex spire, by the s;ub-angulated periphery, flattened base, and 

 more polished surface. The color of the animals is also very dif- 

 ferent ; and the habitats are separated by a twenty- five mile ex- 

 panse of hnv drv land, which is destitute of forests and molluscan 

 life. In character of shell and animal it has some affinity with 

 the preceding species ; and, considering the remote habitats, the 

 two may be regarded as distinct, but allied species. 



Achatinella mncida, n. sp. I'l. X, fig. 23. 



Shell sinistral, very minutely perforated, solid, acuminately ovate 




1895.] NATl'RAI. SCIENCES OF PICILADKI.PII I A. '--3 



conic, apex rather acute; surface sliining. umrkecl ^vith line <rro\vth 

 Hues, and under a lens decussated by very delicate, clo.se, spiral 

 strife. The shell of an ashy irray color, irregularly <listribated 

 over the surface, glvinir it a inuciil appearance; with a dark brown 

 band at the periphery which l)econics sutuial, exten<ling both above 

 and below the .suture, and a small patch of tiii; same color around 

 the und)ilicus ; ais(j with a lew inconspicuous brown lines on the 

 ba.se and al)0V(' the periphery, the latter continued above; apical 

 whorls irenerally denuded of cuticle, and then of a light chestnut 

 color. Whorls 7, slightly convex; suture moderately impres.sed. 

 Aperture obli(jue, oval, livid white within: peristome acute, slightly 

 thickened within, expan<lcd, l)asal and columellar margins nar- 

 rowly reriexed, light brown on both face and the reverse; colu- 

 mella tinged with brown, terminating in a strong, plaited, project- 

 ing tooth. 



Length, 21 ■■ ; diam. 1 1 '. mm. 



Habitat, Makakupaia, Island of Molokai. 



This s|)ecies is found in the region intervening between the habi- 

 tats of A. Ri-dfii'lilii Newc. and A. romjit'i T.se. ; and it has char- 

 acteristics connecting it with ejich of these species. It is snirdler 

 than either, and diH'er.- from both in the c(doration, particularly 

 from the lormer in the ai)sence of the white sutural band. 



Achatinella Anceyana, n. sp. I'l. \. li^' \i>. 



Shell dextrai, imperforate, rather thin, ovately conical, apex ob- 

 tu.«e; surface shining, striated with Hue growth lines, under 

 a lens exhibitiiiir » beautiful patt<Tn (d' close, delicate, decussating, 

 spiral stria-, which extend to the very apex. Color redilish brown, 

 l)econ)ing paler towards the surnndl ; with two yellow bands, a 

 broa<l one encircling the umbilical regitai, u narrow one at the 

 periphery, the latter margined above with a delicate white line, 

 which is continued on the spire just above the suture and becomes 

 lost on the thinl whorl; also with a narrow white line revolving 

 below the suture to the very tip of the apex. Whorls T), convex, 

 not marginate ; suture distinctly imprcs-^ed. Aperture a little 

 oldi({ue, oval, white, distinctly exhibiting the <lark <'oloring of the 

 exterior; peristc»nie acute, slightlv thickened within, the coloring ot' 

 the outside ap}K*arinir on the inner edge; columella brown, icrmi- 

 nating in a wtdl developed, tl)-xu<Mis I'old. 




--4 I'HorKKDINtJS OK TItK ATAUKMY OK ( 1 Hi*5. 



lA?iii:tli, I4j; (liaiii. !) luiii. 



HaMtat, Mukawao, Island uf" Maui. 



Animal wlieii exteiulcMl in niotiun longer than the shell. Mantle 

 liglit hrown inottleil with black, outer edge encircled with an in- 

 terrupted orange Imnd. Foot above and below a very light brown, 

 superior portion witii a shite tinge, posterior portion tapering and 

 sometimes with a yellowish tinge. Tentacles long, light slate. 

 Mead above minutely granulated. 



This species was collected in the forests of the exterior slope of 

 the extinct Haleakala crater, at an altitude of 4,000 feet above sea 

 level. (.)wing to its peculiar habit of living on the foliage near 

 the tops of trees, it has escaped previous observation. 



The species has uo known congeners. It is remarkable for the 

 constancy of its delicate color lines. Over 200 examples before 

 me show only tritiing divergence in this respect. 



Named in honor of Mr. C. F. Ancey, whose publications have 

 contributed largely to our knowledge of Hawaiian land shells. 



Achatinella Horneri. u. sp. PI. X. tigs. 20, 21, 22. 



Shell sinistral, minutely perforated, thin, globose with a short 

 acutely conical s|)ire. ajjex acute ; surface shining, striated with Hue 

 incremental lines, and under a lens exhibiting very close ami deli- 

 cate decussating spiral strhe; embryonic whorls faintly cross-lined. 

 Color dull white, encircled at the periphery with a faint brown zone 

 which is continued on the suture, al,<o with a very small [jutch of 

 same color around the umbilicus. Whorls (i, the up[)er five slightly 

 convex, the last very much inflated, forming the greater |)art of the 

 shell; suture distinctly impres.sed. Aperture obliijue, sub-rotund, 

 very large, white within, distinctly showing the external peripheral 

 band : peristome margined with light brown, rather thin, very 

 slightly thickened within, expanded, basal and columellar margins 

 narrowly reHexed, extremities slightly c(jnvergiug and united by a 

 thin callus; columella light brown, very slightly developed, j)lain 

 and smooth. 



length, 24; diam. JM min. 



Habitat, Hamakua, Island of Hawaii. 



Animal in m(jti<m longer than the shell. Mantle black, margined 

 with gray. Foot above and below gray, the superior portions 

 lightly granulated. Tentacles light gray. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADKf-HH TA. 22o 



There occurs also a pure white form of the shell without the 

 peripheral hand, and a form white with a lijrht chestuut hand on the 

 apical whorls. The animals of these varieties vary duly a triHe 

 from that of the typical form. 



This species helongs to the group of .1. jiliiisn Newc, hut is 

 easily <listinguished l)y its nuich more inflated body whorl and 

 smaller spire, its smoother and jwlished surface. The habitats of 

 the two. species are widely separated, and the anin)als are entirely 

 ditterent. The animal of .1. jilu/sa, mantle au«l foot, is a dingy 

 white with a greenish yellnw tinge. 



We dedicate the species to Mr. J. Lewis Horner, the young natural- 

 ist to whom science is indebted for the discovery of this and the fol- 

 lowing S[»ecies. They are valuable adtiitions to the sliells of the 

 Island of Hawaii, which has heretotbre furnished only one described 

 arboreal species of Achat inella. 



Aohatinella Hawaiiensis, n. sp. PI. X. tigs. 24, 2,5. 26. 



Shell sinistral, minutely perforated, very thin, acutely conical, 

 apex acute ; surface rather lusterless, covered with tine lines of 

 growth, and under a lens showing extremely close and delicate de- 

 cussating spiral lines; nuclear whorls faintly decussated. Color 

 very variable, plain brown or dingy white, sometimes irregularly 

 striped or mottled with brown and white, the ba.se generally uniform 

 brown, but sometimes with umlulating markings of brown and 

 white ; the only constant characters being a brown, .sometimes inter- 

 rupted, line at the periphery, bordered IhjIow with a broader white 

 line. Whorls H, slightly conve.x, the last intlattd. Sutiin lightly 

 impre.ssed. 



Apertun^ (jbli<jue, oval, brown, the peripheral brown and while 

 bands distinctly marked within. Peristome acute, not ihickeneil 

 within, external margin straight, basal expanded, I he expanded 

 jHirtiou being very thin and fragile, the columella margin rellexed 

 over the minute perforatifiu ; color white on both fa<-e an<l the 

 reverse. Columella white, very .slightly developed, plain and 

 smooth. 



Iv^-ngtli, l^i; «liam. lOA mm. 



Habitat, Ilamakini, Island of Hawaii. 



Animal when extended in motion longer llum the >hell. .M.intle 

 almost white, iruirgin of a darker shaile. I'ool above and below 




--t> I'KocKKinNcjs OK Tin-; AC'Ai>i:.MV (>!■• [l.SStr). 



dingy white, superior portion KKinelimes (leei<i'(l witli )_M-av. Ten- 

 tacles of darker shade. 



The tlentition is tlie sjuiio Jis that of" ihe arboreal AchatincUas 

 generally. A central tooth is present ; and the iorniiila ot" dentition 

 is 12;)- 1-1 25 X 120=80,120. (Prof. Uwatkin.) 



This species al.<o belongs to the group of A. pln/.vi Newc, hut 

 is readily <listiugiiished by its nuich smaller size, smoother surface, 

 delicate lip, and arrangement of colors. The habitat.s are also 

 widely separated and the animals ditt'erent. 



Achatinella Theodorei, n. sp. I'l. X, lip. 27. 



Shell sinistral, subperforate, rather thin, elongately conical, apex 

 subacute ; surface shining, sculpture<l with somewhat irregular 

 incremental stria", and under a lens exhibiting extremely close and 

 minute decussating spiral striie ; nuclear whorls smooth. Color 

 dingy white, striped and mottled irregularly with longitudinal dark 

 brown streaks. Whorls 7, lightly marginate abt)ve, slightly convex; 

 suture moderately impressed. Aperture oblique, oval. pur|)lisli 

 brown within ; peristome acute, margined with brown, very lightly 

 thickened within, columellar margin .slightly reflexed ; columella 

 terminating in a slight, flexuous, brown fold. 



Length, 18^ ; diam. 9 mm. 



Habitat, Kawela, Island of Molokai. 



The animal has not as yet been observed. The shell belongs to 

 the group of small elongately conical Partulina for which Mr. Har- 

 |)er Pease proposed the name Perdieella as a subgcneric title. 



The nearest allied species is A. onuiia Newc, which is of 

 much smaller size, more delicate markings, has a j)eripheral dark 

 baud, and inhabits a diflerent island. 



Seotion NEWCOMBIA I'lVidur. 

 Achatinella canaliculata, n. .sp. I'l. X, fif,'.s. 28 2!l. 



.Shell sinistral, very minutely perforated, somewhat solid, acu- 

 minately turreted, apex subacute; surface sculptured throughout 

 with numerous acute, .sjnral keels, which become blunter as they 

 a])proach the apex, the interstices between the keels exhibiting 

 under a lens very delicate growth striie. Color brown, upper 

 whorls tessellated with brown and white. Whorls 6, slightly con- 

 vex, lower one somewhat flattened at tlie base ; suture lightly 

 impressed. Aperture oblique, oval, livid white or light bi-own 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'H I r.ADELJ'fl I A. 227 



within ; |)eri8toiiifc acute, very li<rhtly tliickened witliin, expainlcd, 

 (■()liiiii('ll:ir niaririn reHexcd over (lie siiuill pertoratioii, inarjiineil 

 with liL'lit hrowii on hoth face and the reverse ; columellu very 

 ■slightly developed, plain and >inooth. 



fA'n<rth. 14; diain. i't'j mm. 



Habitat, Halawa, Island <»f' M(»lokai. 



Animal wlieu extended in motion as long a.s the shell. Mantle 

 -late color, margined with hrown. Foot light .^^late, stndih-d on the 

 >ides and head al)ove with ^mIh ot" deeper shade. Tentacles short 

 and slender, dark slate. 



Tin- nearest allied species is J. .■iulridn I't'r. , from which it may 

 lie di>tingnished hy its .-iinaller size anti more acute keels ; the 

 animals also ditllr an<l the haliitats are \vi<lely .separated. 



Section LAMINELLA 1'!, m, i. 

 Laminella helviua, ii. s|i. I'i. X I . li^-. :sii. 



Shell sinistral, imperforate or suhjjerforate, sometimes narrowly 

 and iheplv perforated, rather thin, elongatelv conical, apex rather 

 acute; surface scarcely shining, covered with very Hue incremental 

 -tri:e ; nuclear whorls smooth. Color iniiform light or dingy yellow, 

 with a )ii.'v; Mack markings on the upper wh<trls. Whorls Gi, 

 liL,ditlv margine<l ahove, convex ; suture deeply impressed. Aper- 

 ture a lilt le ohlitjue, oval, white, with the tint of the outside; peri- 

 -tomc simple, thin, margins coiniected hy a thin, orange-yellow 

 callus; Columella i)ipiicate, the terminal plication a thin, ohlitpie 

 lamellar plait, the inner one less prominent, tortuous, of an orange 

 vcllow color. 



I><'ngth, |.s ; diam. 1 mm. 



llal*itMl. ( )hia valley, near Kaluaaha, Island of .Molokai. 



.\nimal extended in motion as long as the sliell. Mantle and 

 fo(it aliove and helow vt-ry light hrown. Tentacles daik slate, with 

 I sprinkling of slate on the sides of the foot. Posterior portion 

 "t" foot very lap(!ring an<l thickly studded with minute re<l spots. 

 A remarkahly pmlitic species ; 4 or 5 end>ryoni<' shells in successive 

 Mage.s of growth often oh.Hcrveil in the oviduct.s. A jaw is present 

 and the dentition is the same as that of the Amastra s|M'cies. The 

 tooth formula oflhi.s s|iecie.s is '.VlA.Wlx 1()'H = 7,01.M). The ceiitial 

 tooth is a little wiil«-r than usuul. ( I'rof. (iwatkin.j 



This shell dilllrs from all its congeners in its strongly liijiii>iitt 

 17 




228 



l'K<Mi:i;i>I.\f}S OK Till', ACAnKMV OK 



flSOf). 



iM)lmiull;i. :mtl llic |itciili:ir ^ofi paiis ol tlit- animal. Tlie tvpicnl 

 toiiii!^ are toiiiul in the small valley ot'Ohia on Molokai. Departing 

 iVomtliis localitv on either si<le, moditietl I'oiins witlimit the hiplicate 

 eolumella are somewhat comnion. 



Laminella depiota, n. >i>. I'l. Xl, lij,'s. S.i. 3-J, 35. 



Shell sinistral, soinetinies sliuhtly perforated, rather thin, elong- 

 ately eonieal, apex snhacnte; snri'aee shining, striated with very 

 delicate growth lines; nnelear whorls smooth. Color light yellow 

 or reddish yi'll^w. plain, or marked with nnmerons Mack, anastom- 

 osing veins ; api-x almost black in some exam])les. Whorls 7, 

 faintly margined ahove, somewhat convex, sntnre distinctly im- 

 pressed. Aperttire a little ol)li(jue, oval, white or jtinkish, the 

 outside markings visible within ; peristome simple, very thin ; colu- 

 mella white, snl)-l)iplicate, tortnou.s, abruptly terminating in a thin 

 lamellar plait. 



Ijength, 15 J ; diam. (ij mm. 



Habitat, Kamalo, Island of Mohjkai. 



Animal extended in motion shorter than the shell. Mantle very 

 light brown. Foot above and below almost white. Tentacles short, 

 light brown. 



This species is allied to .1. Alexandri Newc, from the Island 

 of Maui, and to .1. Rinnji Newc, from the Island of Lanai, 

 but differs from both in the color and habits of the animal. 



Section AMASTRA 11. i«t .\. .\(lams. 

 Amastra puUata, n. sp. I'l. XI, 1\u,&. 31, 32. 



Shell dextral, imperforate, solid, elongately ovate ; surface luster- 

 less, covered with rather clo.se, irregular, growth striie ; the embry- 

 onic whorls finely radiately sulcated. Color light brown ; covered 

 with a black fugacious epidermis, dense on the last whorl, more 

 spai-sely distributed on the upper whorl-s worn off in front of the 

 aperture ; aj^ex dark brown. Whorls 7, convex ; suture well 

 impres.-cd. Aperture oval, a trifle oblicpie, white within with a pur- 

 plish tiugi: ; peristome acute, slightly thickened within, edge dark 

 purple; columella i)urpli8li white, flexuous, abruptly terminating in 

 a broad, thin, slightly arched lamellar plait. 



Length, 2.'> ; diam. 11^ nun. 



Habitat, Waikolu, Island of Molokai. 



Animal extended in motion a trifle longer than the shell. Mantle 




1895.] NATl'RAI. SCIKNCRS OF PHI I, A OKI, I'M I A. 229 



almost white with a slate tiiiire. Foot above aii<l lieluw almost 

 white, the posterior portion and eiljres ileusely stiuUle-'i with very 

 minute pink s]K>ts. Tentacles short, light slate, with a tew spots 

 of the same color on the head ahove. 



All the Aniastra species arc terrestrial in their haltits : their t()rm 

 of dentition is jj:iven in the preface to this article. The formula foi- 

 this species is 2N. 1 . 2.S x 99= 5, 645. ( Prof ( iw atkin. ) 



rniike most of the Anuustra. which Lieiierally have dark diiij.^y 

 colored animals, this species has a heautiful, almost white animal. 

 The after portion and cdires of the foot uiuler a leus are seeu to be 

 closelv studded with ininiitc pink spots which give these parts 

 a delicate pink hue. 



Amastra umbrosa. n. sp. 1*1. .\l. tins. Mt. H7. 



•Shell dextral. imperforate, soliil, glohosely ovate-conic ; surface 

 liistrele.s.s, covered with close, rather regular growth striie ; the 

 lower whorls spirally malleated ; the emhryonic whorls finely radi- 

 ately suh-ated. Color white, apex dark chestnut ; nearly (he whole 

 surface covered with irregular streaks of a hlack, fugacious epider- 

 mi."*, worn oH" in front of the aperture. Whorls (>, slightly convex, 

 the last somewhat iiiHated. .\perture ovate, a little oi>li(|ue, while 

 within ; |)eristome acute, thickened within, e.\pan<leil ; columella 

 white, Hexuous, abruptly terminating in a somewhat thick lamellar 

 [)lait. 



Length, 'Jl : tliam. 12A mm. 



Habitat, Kamalo, Island of Molokai. 



Animal extended in motion longer than the shell. Mantle dark 

 brown with a margin of lighter shade. Foot light brown, the 

 superior jtortion and sides studdecT with large spots of deeper shade. 

 Tentacles .-iliort, stout, very dark brown. 



The formula of dentition is 2.S. 1.2^. The marginals take a |iecu- 

 liar form. ( I'rof (iwatkin.) 

 Amastra rubicunria. n ••]> I'l. .\l, liu. :sh. 



Shell de.xtral, imp«-rforate, rather soliij. elon^ately ovate-conie ; 

 .surface- lustrele.s.s, striated with irregular growth siri.e; tMiibryonic 

 whorls smooth. Oolor reddish, with traces ot a deciduous, ihiii, 

 brown epidermis. Whorls 7, slightly convex; sutun- well im- 

 pre-ssed. .\|)erture elongately oval, a Irille obliipie, rather small. 

 purplish red within ; |)erisloine simple, thin, margined wilii <laik 




2'?0 iM{<)CKi;i>iN«JS (»K I'm; acahkm v i>i" [lH!)r). 



|nn|>lr ; coliiiiu'lhi wliilc with a |)iii|ile linm'. IK-mkhis, aliniplly 

 tormiiiiitiiij; in :i lliiii, sliLrlitly tiiivt-tl laim-llar idait. 



Ix*nirtli, I !' : 'liaiii. !• mm. 



Ilaltitat : Kuiialniaiiui Mt., Islaiitl of ( >alui. 



Aiiiinai. mantle Idowii. mariiiii of a tU'rpt'r sliade. I'dnt liiowii, 

 till' siipcrioi- poitiiiii aiiiKi.-t Ithuk. The I'urmiila of the tlenlitiun i.s 

 l.s.lO.l.lU. l.s. (H. Suter. ) 



111 t'oriii and general a|i|K'aiaiife this species reseinhle.s AiikisIiu 

 riirii>i(it(( IMV., which iiilialiits a <lili"ereiit station, and is readily 

 distin<.Miislietl liv its less niddy color, sulcated apex, and essential 

 ilitleience ol" animal. 

 Amastra uudata, ii. sp. I 'I. \l. li^;, :<!». 



Shell dextral, imperforate, solid, ovate, spire convexly conical, 

 apex rather acute, base somewhat attenuated ; surface lustreless, 

 closely and rather evenly rihhed in the direction of the jjrowtii 

 lines, the ril)-stri:e being slightly interruptetl hy several coarse, 

 transverse spiral lines, the nuclear whorls finely radiately sulcated. 

 Color light hrown and dark (;hestnut, alternating in irregular longi- 

 tudinal undulations. Whorls 6, sliglitly (ionvex ; suture moder- 

 ately impressed. Aperture a trifle olilitpie, suhlunate, rather small, 

 white within ; peristome acute, slightly thickened within ; columella 

 white Hexuous, ai>ru[)tly terminating in a thin, slightly arched, 

 lamellar plait. 



Length, I 7 ; diaiii. 1 '2 mm. 



Habitat ; ^Juuanu, Island of Oahu. 



This species is very rare and local in its distribution. Its princi- 

 pal features are the prominent rib-striie and the beautiful undulat- 

 ing markings of light and dark cheslnut brown. 

 Amastra badia, n. .-p. I'l. .\l, Ii;,'. U). 



.Shell dextral, imperforate, rather thin, elongately ovate-conic; 

 surface shining, sculj)tured with delicate, rather close thread-like 

 ril)-.strije in the direction of the growth lines; embryonic whorls 

 radiately sulcated. Color dark chestnut-brown witli light brown 

 zigzag or undulating lines and markings. Whorls 6i, slightly con- 

 vex; suture moderately im[)ressed. Aperture oval, a trifle oblique, 

 livid white within, exhibiting the brown color of the exterior; peris- 

 tome acute, very lightly thickened within; columella white, tlex- 

 U(jus, abriipllv terminating in a thin, slightly arched lamellar plait. 




1^95.] NATl'KAL SC'IENCKS OF PHI l,.\ DKI.I'II I A . 281 



Length, 2O2 ; diam. 105 nim. 



Hal)itat, Ewa, Island of Oaliu. 



The distribution of tliis specie,*, a? far as observed, is quite liinited. 

 We do not know of any species approach inji it in forni or specific 

 characteristics. Its somewhat sniootli and puli.^heil surface di.«- 

 tinL'nishes it from most of the .species of the Amastra section. 



Amastra pellucida, n. >|.. I'l. XI. figs. 41, 40. 



Shell dextral. imperforate, very fraLrile, thin, translucent. j;lo 

 bosely conic, a|>ex rather acute; surface lusterless, scul|)turetl with 

 fine incremental lines, apical whorls smooth. Color lij^ht-brown, 

 apex darker; destitute of epidermis. Whorls ").',, somewhat convex; 

 suture luoderatelv impressed. Apeiture oval, a trille oblicjne, 

 livid-white within; j)eristome sim|tle, thin; coluuielhi while, tiexuous, 

 abruptly terminating in a thin lamellar jtlait. 



I>en<,'th, 12?; diam. H mm. 



Habitat, Waianae N'allcv, Island of ( )ahii. 



Animal of a Muifonn brown color; the head above :niil trntacle- 

 of a darker shade. The action of the heart is plainly visible 

 lhrou|;h the thin texture of the shell. When first collected the 

 pulsations were alxnit fifty per minute, growinir slower and fainter 

 from day to day until the animal died. 



This species is well characteriz^nl bv it~ thin pellucid texture, 

 L'lol>ose form, abbreviated S|)ire, and liuht iirown color. 



Amastra breviata, x\. >]> I'l. X I. Iiks. 4.'>, 4<i. 



Shell dextral, very niiiintely perforated, rather tliiii. irh'bo.sely 

 conical, ajiex rather acute: siirlace not polished, covered with line 

 incremental lines, the nuclear whorls smooth. Color corneous- brown, 

 destitute of an epidermis. Wlmrbb, sliijlitlv convex; sninre well 

 impre.-.se4l. .\perture a trille obliipie, (»val, livid- while within, 

 showinir the color of the exterior: peristom*^ simple, thin, exlremilie^ 

 joined l>v .'i tliiii white (»r brown i-.-dlosity; columella while, IIixmom-. 

 abruptlv terminatiuL' in a thin lamellar plait. 



l^iiL'th, 121; diam. 7' mm. * 



ilabilut. I'alolo and Ilalaua, Island of Oalni. 



This shell approaches the precedintr species in ils form ; ImiI may 

 Iw readilv di>lin!.'ui-lied by hs thicker texture and darker color. 

 The habitats are also widelv -eparaled and the ariiMi.ils dilltT. 




-^- I'HOCKKDINtJS 0|.' 'I'lIK ArAItKMV OK [IS!).'* 



Amastra tenuispira, ii. s|>. IM. XI, Wk •'>! 



Slu'll (U'xtral, imi»('rt"i)rat(\ solid, :u'imiiii;it»'l\ tiirntcil. s|»irc 

 Cdiiical, a|)i'\ suhaciitc; siiii'aco liistrclcss, covciTd willi sdincwlial 

 null', irregular iiicrcmental slrias lli<' fMnhryonic wliorls vitv liiicly, 

 radiatcly siilcatcd. Color liiilit-ltrowii, u|)|)t'r wliorls darker; 

 covfrt'd with an «'artliv lirowii, rutrarioiis cpidfriiiis. Wliorls 7, 

 somewhat convi'x, in sonio exaiiiples sliirhtly iiiar^niied ahove; siiliire 

 well impressed. Aperture oval, ohlicpie. rather small, lii^ht-hidwii 

 within: peristome simple, acute, extremities united with a thin cal- 

 lositv; columella suh-liiplicate. li^xhf-hrown, turtuous, aiirnptlv 

 termiiiatiiii:' in an olili(pie, dentiform plait. 



Ijenfrth, 17; diam. (i^ mm. 



Habitat, Kaala Mt., Island of Oahn. 



This species is very local in its hnhitat. Its onlv coni^eners are 

 the elongate forms AiiKisIra Ifiifcliiiisdiiii I*se., which inhahits East 

 Maui, and AiiKistra morula Newc. from the island of Lanai. The 

 former is remarkahle as the only known sinistral species of the 

 Amastra section, and is also distinguished hy its invariably white 

 aperture and colunudla fold. The latter s])ecies is characterized hv 

 its more obese form and peculiar columella. 



Amastra nana, n. sji. IM. .\l. lius. ts, t!t. 



Shell dextial, imperforate, rather thin, ovately conical, apex sub- 

 acute ; surface lustreless, striated with fine iucreinental lines, the 

 2' embryonic whorls finely, railiately sulcated. The color varies 

 from light to dark brown, the basal half of the body whorl some- 

 times of lighter shade than the upper portion ; covered with a black 

 or earthy- brown, fugacious epidermis, often laid on with alternating 

 undulations, or zigzag niarking.s. Whorls (i, .somewhat convex ; 

 suture well impressed. Aperture oval, a little oblique, white with 

 a purplish tinge ; f)eristome simple, very thin ; columella purplish- 

 white, Hexuous, abruptly terminating in a thin lamellar plait. 



Ixingth, 11'; diam. ()i mm. 



Habitat, Makawao, Island of Maui. 

 * Animal when extended in motion as long as the shell. Mantle 

 light brown. I'^)ot above and below brown with spots of deeper 

 .shade on the siiles. Tentacles and front above almost black. 



This is one of the smaller of the Amastra forms. It is about the 

 ^I7.e i)i' Amnslid jiefriro/or Newc. from Molokai, and Ainnsfru iniihili- 




1895.] NATCRAL SCIENCRS OF Pll II.ADKIJ'HIA. 283 



cata Pfr. from Oalui; species possessiuir oiitirelv diti'erent chnrne- 

 terii^tics. 



Coiamon, hut very loi-al in its distrihiitioii, in :i licit ot" forest land 

 al)out 4,000 feet above sea level. 



Amastra antiqua, ii. sp. PI. XI. fip. 47. 



Shell fossil, dextral, narrowly hut deejtly perforated, the perfora- 

 tion penetrating almost to the apex: solid, elongately ovate, apex 

 sidtaeute ; surface sculptured with rude, irrej^idar lines of ^Mowth, 

 tlie apical whorls smooth. ( 'nlor of the livinir shell unknown. 

 Whorls t), convex ; suture well impressed. Aperture a triHc ol)li(jUc, 

 suliliuiatc; |)eristome thickened within, columellar mariiin adnate, 

 sli<rhtlv expanded over the undiilicus, extremities somewli;it converg- 

 ing and united hv a thick parietal callositv; columella Ih'xuous, 

 terminating in a narrow plait. 



I^ength, 20; diam. 12 mm. 



Hal)itat. Ewa, Island of Oahu. 



We received this species from Prof A. il Lyons, of ()ahu Col- 

 lege. He re|)orts that he found at Ewa a singular accumulation of 

 the.*»e and other fossil land shells, huddled together in one sjiot in ji 

 bed of .<oft tufa-like material, at an altitude not iar above sea level. 

 The existence of living examples of this ;uid the fdlowiug species 

 now, or within aiiv recent period, i- lii:.ddv improl):ible. 



Amasta vetusta, n sp I'l. .\I. lii;. r>{t. 



Sh(>ll fossil, dextral, imjierforate, solid, ovatelv conical, apex rather 

 acute; surface senl|)tiired with somewhat regular, close rib-stri;i' in 

 the direction ot' the growth lines, with a tew faint cross lines; the 

 endirvouic whorls railiately sulcated. ( '(»lor of living shell unknown. 

 Whorls tn. very sliLditly <'onvex ; suture lightly impressed. Aper- 

 ture sinuately oval, a little obli(pie ; peristome llally blunt, ihiekened 

 on the inner edge, maruins united with a thick callosity ; coliniiella 

 tiexuous, abru|)tlv terminating,/ in a small, thin plait. 



Leri;;th, 1^1; diam. 7 H mm. 



Habitat, near Honolulu, Island of Oahu. 



Thi.s specie-* was also discovered bv I'rof. I^vons. It oecurs near 

 the lia.se of Pumliboul Ilill, at an altitude of I went v or t liirl v feet 

 al)ovc sea levej, in a conglomer:ite of vohninc tufa :nid saufl <emented 

 together with carbon.ate of lime. Prof Lyons thinks the shells 

 must li.ave lived iieiir the >^pot ulnie tliev are now found eudieddr-d 




2:M 



IMJOCKKIUNOS OK TIIK ACAKKMV or 



fisnri. 



in tlie rock, as tliort' is no siitist'actorv wnv to account I'nr tlicir 

 transportation from any distance. II' .so. tlic conditions of climate 

 when the sheila llourishcd in thai lo(aIil\, niiisl have liccn (jiiitc 

 ditlcrciit tVoin those ot" the present, lime. 

 Amastra cyclostom.a, ii sp I'l. XI. V\g. 53. 



Shell dextral. narrow! v hut deeply iterloratetl, the perforation 

 penetratiiiir to the ajiex, .somewhat solid, ohiately jrlohnlar witli n 

 short conical spire, ajie.x acute ; surface lustreless, scidptured with 

 close, ol»li(|uely descending;, flexnous growth lines, which become con- 

 centric around tlu^ innhilicus ; the endu'vonic whorls smooth or with 

 <lclicate, ratliatiiitr sulcations. ( 'olor lirown, darker on the spire. 

 Whorls ('», the upper ones rather tlat. rapidly increasing; the last 

 one large, forming the greater part ol" the shell, strongly angled at 

 the peri[)liery, the angle hccoming almost obsolete towards the aper- 

 ture. deHexed in front a trifle below the carina, surface above the 

 angle Hat. slightly convex towards the aperture, and rounded lielow 

 the angle ; suture well impre.«sed. Aperture very oblique, sinuatelv 

 circular, a small .segment cut off' by the penultimate whorl, livid- 

 white within, exhibiting the exterior coloring through its substance; 

 peristome rather obtn.se, slightly thickened within, unreflected, ex- 

 tremities slightly converging and united by a very thin callo.sity; 

 columella livifl-white. bn)ad and Hat, terminating in a slight, flexn- 

 ous plait. 



Altitude, 15; diam. IS mm. 



Habitat, Makawcdi, Island of Kauai. 



Animal when extended in motion .95 inch in length; posterior 

 portion of foot tapering and very short, front portion long; head 

 elongated, ocular and labial tentacles widely separated. Mantle 

 dingy-white with streaks of black. Foot very light brown, superior 

 portifm and sides thickly stn<l<l('d with regular, ilark brown granula- 

 tions. Tentacles long, dark brown. 



This species belongs to the same grouji as Anuixtra yjjJticrirn Pse. 

 and AiiKi.ifrn lir/lclfonnls Anc. , but may be readily distinguished from 

 both by its much larger size and more inHalcd body whorl. 



Amastra Knudsenii, ii. s|>. I'l. XI, figs. 43. 14. 



Shell dextral, imperforate, solid, elongately ovate,, spire conical, 

 apex subacute ; surface lustreless, coarsely and irregularly wrinkled 

 by growth striic ; end)ryonic whorls very finely radiately sulcated. 




l<*^f^->-] NATfRAI, SCIENCKS OF PTrTr.ADKI.PHTA. -•^"'"> 



Color very dark brown, tendiiifr to a li<rliter shade on the elevated por- 

 tions of the lower whorl. Whorls 7. the three lower ones strongly 

 angnlated a little l)elo\v the sutnre, the last one with a cord-like keel 

 at the peripherv and nmntrons coarse cross stri;e alxive and helow 

 the peri])hery: sutnre well inijiressed. Aperture oblique, elongately 

 oval, dark purple inside with a satin-like lustre; peristome acute, 

 not thiekened within; columella Icrmiiiatinir in a iHiitr, narrow, 

 tlexuous, pearly-while plait. 



I>enijth 33; diam. 17 mm. 



Habitat: Ilalcmanu, Island of Kauai. 



Botii this species and Anxistni AVn/<; /(;(.*/.<? Newc. are characterized 

 i»y the long, tlexuou3 thread-like coliinu liar plail which is jx-culiHr 

 to the gt^nus ('niiliit of Kauai. Kxaminatioii i>\' the aidnials mav 

 prove them both aberrant forms of that genus. 



The species is very rare. We dedicate it to Mr. .\. Kmidsen, the 

 young naturalist wh<t <liscovered it. He writes that it i.s of very 

 limited distribution, beiuir found far up the mo\mtain only in an 

 isolated tract of wood laiul which escaped the forest fires of Iwentv 

 years ago. In three days' diligent seanh he fouml oidv Iwelve 

 living examples. 



i:Xl'L\ NATION OF TLATKS. 



The figured types arc, with the exceptions notc«i below , in the col- 

 lection of the Academy of Natural Sciences, bearing the nnnd>ers 

 fpioted ill parenthe.«'i9. 



I»F,ATr. X. 



.\clialinella multi/.onnta ISaMwin (()-'>,7()3i 



Achalinclla .liiddii Hahlwin («>r>,7((9) 



Achatinella Ernestina Baldwin ((w"t,7()()) 



Airhatinclla luteostoma I'aldwin (('»'), 704, ()">, 70") ) 



Achatinella lA'oiisiana l>aldwin (f)r>,(>!).3 1 



Achatinella Lyonsiana var. (coll. Baldwin i 



.\chatinella Lvonsiana var. (<);"),*>!• I ) 



.\chatinella Lymaniana Baldwin (coll. Baldwin) 



Achatniella ves|M'rtina iialdwin (<;.'),((!»!>) 



Achatinella Cookei i'.aldwin ((>r>,(;!)2) 




2M] 



PHO('KKIilN(iS OK 'I'lIK ACAMKMY Ol 



[1895. 



KuniiKs. 



" 16. 



" 17. 



'• 1!». 



" 'JO. 



" 21. 



" 2 'J. 



" 2A. 



' ' 24. 



" 2;'). 



' • 2)). 



' ' 27. 



': 28, 



FiorKEs. 



30. 

 31, 

 33, 

 3G, 

 38. 

 39. 

 40. 

 41, 

 43, 

 45, 

 47. 

 48. 

 50. 

 51. 

 52. 



53. 

 54. 

 55. 



56. 



Aclmtinella Auceyana Hnldwin (65,707) 



IS. Acliatiiu'lla Dolei Baldwin (65,(190) 



.\i'Iiatiiu'lla iiivoa Baldwin (65,691) 



.\('li:itiM('lla Hornori BaJilwin (65,702) 



.\(liatin»'lla Ilorneri var. (65,700) 



.\(liatinolla Ilornori var. (65,701) 



Acliatiiiclla nmcida l>aldwin (65,708) 



.Acliatiiiflla ilawaiicn.'sis BaMwin (65,695) 



Aclialinella I lawaiien.sis var. {{u),i)9Q) 



Achatiiii'lla Hawaiiensis var. (65,698) 



Acliatinella Thoodorei Baldwin (65,710) 



29. Acliatinella canaliculata iiaidwiu (65,713) 



Platk XI. 



Lamintdla helvina lialdwin 

 32. Amastra puUata Baldwin 

 34, 35. Laniinella depicta Baldwin 

 37. Amastra nniljrosa Baldwin 

 Amastra rnhicinida Baldwin 

 Amastra nndata Baldwin 

 Amastra hadia Baldwin 

 42. Amastra pellucida Baldwin 

 44. Amastra Knndseni Baldwin 

 46. Amastra hreviata lialdwin 

 Amastra aMti<|ua Baldwin 

 49. Amastra nana Baldwin 

 Amastra vetusta Baldwin 

 Amasira tennispira Baldwin 

 Acliatinella Lyonsiana Baldwin, 

 two adjacent lateral teeth. 

 Ania8tra cyclostoraa Baldwin 

 Amastra rnhicnnda Baldwin 

 Acliatinella Dolei Baldwin, a chitinons membrane, 

 an<l // radida, as obtained after treatment with 

 caustic potash. 



Amastra rnhicinida Baldwin. Ka(thidian teeth, 

 with 1st, 2d and 10th lateral teeth, and mar- 

 ginals 14, 25 and 28. 



(65,712) 

 (65,715) 

 (65,711) 

 (65,714) 

 (65,719) 

 (65,722) 

 (coll. Baldwin) 

 (65,721) 

 (65,725) 

 (65,723) 

 (65,716) 

 (65,718) 

 (65,717) 

 (65,720) 

 Kh:ielii<lian tooth with 



(65,724) 

 jaw. 




1895.] NATIKAL SCIENCES OF PHIf-ADKI-PHIA. 237 



OBSERVATIONS ON THE DENTITION OF ACHATINELLIDJE. 



i;y ii. m. (;\\ aikin and iiknkv sri'i;i:, with iMii:i-AT<ti;Y note 



I'.Y II. A. IMI.SKRY. 



The fleiititioii of tli»' Afhatin^'l/idu has already heen iiivestiaatcd 

 by Heyiiemami' and hy W. G. Biiiiiey. The latter author, in 

 co-operation with Thonia.>' Bland, ^ hua puhlished several papers 

 upon the subject, and to him i.-s due the eredit ot" discovering that 

 within the group commonly known as AcliaiinpUn, two extremely 

 different types of dentition exist. 



The first, including ArhatiueUa x. "tr., Pnrtii/lnn and Toniattlllnn 

 is characterized by an exce.>;sivelv delicate jaw i which i> completely 

 lost in |x)tjush preparations), and teeth arranged en chevron, in very 

 obliipie transverse rows, all of the peculiar form shown in Plate XI. 

 tig. o'i, and found also in Allioniro/jhorKx, etc. The shells of this 

 group are glos.sy or brilliant, and the animal is arboreal. 



The second type is seen in the groups Amastra, Lahlcf/a, Xeir- 

 rnnihiii, Laniiin l/n and Ltjitiirli(ilinit. Mere the jaw is stronger, 

 arched, and smooth or striate. The teeth are arranged in nearly 

 straight transverse rows, and are of the ty[>e found in Arhtil'mn and 

 1,'iiiiiiiiii. dilierint: from the teeth of llelicidie in the narrowness of 

 tilt! rliarliidian row (see I'l. XI, fig. "»(!). The shell is dull in the 

 majority of the species of this i^roup, and tin- animal is in most 

 cases terrestrial in habit. 



.Allied to the last in dentili'in, Imt distinct in its -Mniiiily liiibed 

 jaw. is the genus ('nrr/ln, which thus cfnistltiiles a tliinl priiiiar\ 

 group of .Achatinellidif. 



These three L'roups are, there can be no reasdimlilc ilnnlil. nf 

 u'cneric rank, and will bear tlie folhiwing names: 



1. ( lenus .\< IIA riNKI.LA Swainson. 1 H2H. ( 'r)iitains the si-etiuini! 

 divisions mentionefj alM)Ve, with .><ome others. <)f this geiH-ric term. 

 /^7/p^■/• of l'ea.se and Fischer is a synonym. There is no reason 



I M:il:ik HI.. I stilt. .J /,i,H>llni,1, 



' Amiiil-. of tlif I.yciiiiii iif N:il. Ili-<t ..I Niu Si.rk, .\ . |. .T'.l. \^'.S. II.kI 

 XI. p. IWi; Annals of "till- N. V. Ach<I. Stiiiin-H. Ill, |i|.. IMt, !(»:{ 




•_>:is 



iM{()ci;KniN(!.s OK Till': acadk.mv ok 



[ 1 SOf). 



ahic t»X('iis(> for iwiviiii;' l'\'riiss;ic'.s Umiii lliUflm s, tor it was iiol 

 inten<U'il as a troiu'ric or siih-^enoric iiami' hy I'VuMissac, and is 

 improper in form. Its use would open tlic door to an endless series 

 of va<raries in nomenclature, as anv one who examines l"\'russae'B 

 oriijinal publication may see. 



2. (Jeiins Li-.i-iAi II vi'lN \ (iould, 1S4S. Contains Amaxlni, Xnr- 

 romliia, etc. 



^. Genus ( "aki;i.i \ 11. and A. Ad.,isr)r). 



The relationships of these jxenera and their sidiixeiiera will proh- 

 altly he decided hy a study of their jrcnitalia, which the writer hopes 

 to undertake later; an<l these data will also :iid in ilecidiiii; whether 

 the Achatinellidie constitute a se|)arate family, or are merely a 

 division of Achatinida.'. 



The following; notes materially increase the list of species of which 

 the ilentition is known, and tend to strenirthen the view.s advanced 

 liy liinney in the |iuhlications noticed ahove. 



rill. Dkntftion of Tin: A(HATiNr:r.i,yK. Hy II. M. (Jwatkix. 



Molluscous laduhc are in fi^eneral fairly uniform in t he species of a 

 genus, and form a very trustworthy character. The chief anomalies 

 are in a few families like the Buc(;inid;e, where the individual varia- 

 tion is greater than the specific, and in a few species where radula- of 

 two or more types are found, like I*liaf<i((iw//a and CaUionloxia among 

 the marine genera, Bn /I mains and ('i/liiKlnlhi among the terrestrial. 



ArhaHnf'Ua is a conspicuous instance of the latter class. We find 

 in it two well-marked and very distinct tyju'S of radula, viz.: 



(a). Jaw missing, radula broad, oblong, teeth very numerous, 

 e)i olievrnn (rows sloping obliquely backward). Centrals (if present), 

 laterals and marginals, all of the same type: liase narrow, head 

 rather broad, with four, five, six or seven small tentacles (exactly as 

 in Jiini'lld and Toniafelflmi and the marginals only of Snceinea). 



To this section belonir: 



Achdiiiii lln *nirra Hald. 



A. '' Alia 1/(111(1 I'ajfl. 



A . *M/(i Kve. 



A. *C(in(i/i(:ii/<iffi l>al(l. 



A. ciiuKinioiiK 'I I'fr. 



A. l)iri(/litii Xeuc. 



A. rhiirii' (I ( lul. 



A. *J/((ir(iii( ii.sis iJald. Forniulu: 



123—12'> •'■ 120=.'{0JS() 

 A. lUynuri JJald. 

 A. iiKiriiiordtd (ijfl. 



A. *Mi(jfi< IxiciiKi I'fr. 



A. Nahi Hald. and llartm. 



A. perdi.r Hve. 



A. pro.rhim Pse. 



A. *]>iilclierriiii(t Swains. 



A. H((Ui<l(lii Newc. 



A. rJiodordjiln Sni. 



A. Hulcdtd l*fr. 



A. *teH>i( lldld Newc. 



A. *vir(jiildl(i Migh. 



Auririilt lid hrninteri Smith. 




1«95.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF IMII I.A I "KLPH lA. 



239 



All these are practically iudistiiiguislialtle, except that thoae 

 iiiarkeil with au asterisk sceui to have a central tooth. 



(Im. .law arcuate, stroug, not rihhed. Kadiila ohloiitr, not wide. 

 Teetii (piadrate, in nearly straiirht rows. Centrals small, narrow, 

 son)etinies faintly tricuspid; laterals larger, bicuspid; marginals 

 bicus[»id or multicuspid as iu J It /i.e. 



To this .--cction belong: 



Ac/i(itineUu ami mil in Newc, 



.{. Inlriiiii liald. ■•.:.lJ>x 108=1,020 

 A. Iiihintd Newc 

 .1. MiiMi rsi New c. 



A: nana liald. 



A. j)iilla(a \in\d.j8.1.2Sx 99=0,043 



A. sinii/aris Hartni. 



.1. umhrosa IJald. 



Here again, though there are small dilierences in the niunber of 

 teeth, the varieties of ehape are very trifling. The central tooth of 

 A. Iu'lrlnit '\!i a little wider than usual, and the marginals of J. 

 iiinhrusii take a peculiar form; Ijut neither of these variations seems 

 important. 



< )N iiii. l)iNllil').\ iti so.MK Ni;w tSl'lcrii:^ oi' lli:i,it-ii;i;. liy 

 1Ii:nrv Sirri;i:. 



Some time ago Mr. 1). I). iJalduin kiiidJv xnt me the animals of 

 some species nf lltHrtrr iur examination id' their dentition, and I 

 herewith give a slmrt re|)orl. 



Helicter (Apexi Cookei Rtldwin. 

 Helicter Bulimella) Lyonsiana I',:ilil\viii 

 Helicter (Partulina* Dolei Ikii<hviii. 



'l"hc.-<e thre<- s|Micies |»erfectly airree in the peculiarity ol their 

 dentili'iii. There is no jaw , only a chitinoiis, transparent menduaiie 

 ri. XI. li^'. 5."), a, i'overing the lips. The riidula, I'l. .\I, lig. f).'), b, 

 llirm.-' a tube, compressed sidewi.se, with numerous lolds; |)art of it 

 is bent backward anteriorly, forming a collar. The t»elh of the 

 raduhi ri. XI, lig. O'J, x 1 y., form obli<pie rows at an angle ol 

 abont >>il . The rhachidian tooth is long and slender, with a ."Uiall 

 retle<lii»n and two ndnute cuttin;; |K)ints in //. Ijitaiinidnn, no r»-llec- 

 tion conid be seen in the tw<» other s|H'cie«. The laterals :ind mar- 

 ginals are all alike, the denticles varying in number from live to 

 si.\, in the last nuirginals from four to twi»; these teeth very much 

 lereinble l\\v uiargiiials of iSiicriii'it. I'lic dentition is the same in 




•_M(» 



i'K«KKKiiiN({s i^y Till; acahk.my ok 



[IHOrx 



nil the three species, though they belong to tliflennl M'ctitms of 

 Hflicfi i\ all of which are arboreal. 

 Helioter (Ainastrai rubicunda Kaldwin. 

 Helicter (Amastra), n. sp. 



These two species, belonging to the same section, «litier very 

 niiifli in tlentitioii ironi the foregoing species. The jaw, IM. XI, 

 tig. 54, is soli<l, dark brown, horse-shoe-shaj)eii, and beautiiullv 

 finely striatetl vertically. The radnla is tongue-shaped, the tcelh 

 arranged in almost straight transverse rows, and tlu-y are very 

 nuuh the same in both species, varying only in their nnnd)er. Thus 

 Am<i.'<tni niltiriiiiihi has the formula 18.10. 1. 1 0. IS and Avint^ira 

 n. sp. "l'l.\'l.\.\-.-'l. It is hardly necessary to give a description 

 of the raduUe, tig. 5(i, showing the most characteristic teeth of .1. 

 nilnciiH'Id. It may, however, be mentioned that the rliachidian and 

 the laterals resemble somewhat tlio.se of ArlidliiKi, but the marginals 

 are pectinate. The species of AiiKiftni are not arboreal, but live 

 on the earth. 



Christchurch, New Zealand, August 8, 1894. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHIKADEI.PHIA. 241 



NOTES ON THE VARYING HARES OF WASHINGTON AND BRITISH 

 COLUMBIA WITH DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SUB-SPECIES. 



i:y sAMri:i. n. i:ik>ai)s. 



In tlie ileterniii)atioii ot'tlie ivlatiunsliips of the Varyinir Hare, Lr- 

 l>n< ninericaiinn, ot" interior liritish Culumliia it heeaine necessary to 

 handle a hirirer number of specimens of this grou|» from west of the 

 Hocky Mountains than lias hitherto heen available for study. This 

 material inrlu<les typical specimens of L. irti-ilnni/tdiii from near 

 Putret Soiinil, four winter skins and ten skulls from near the Suocpial- 

 mie Pa.ss, AVashin<xton. and f »ur skins and six skulls from Hopr, Ji. ( '., 

 kindly loaned me hy Mr. Outram Ban;_'.<. It is to he reirretted that 

 summer specimens of the Cascade Mountain form from Washiuir- 

 ton were not available as it is impossible to estalilish their relations 

 to tv[)ical ird^hinijhiiii \ii anv other way. On this account the.<e 

 notes may be considered as merely preliminary to a more thorough 

 investigation of material now being collected in these regions. 



A compari.<oii of a large series of skulls from the Cascades ami 

 lowlands of Washington convinces me that irn.-^h'nuitoiti is siHjcili- 

 cally distinct froni iimeriruiiiis and it is probable that the form of 

 ii(i:<ltiiiijliiiii fiiuid in the higher ( "a.scades is a well marked race. 

 The cranial characters, taken from average adiili >kidl> fVom .Maine 

 and I'uget .S»und, which .Mparatc '///ler /'•'////(•>• and irusliimituni, niav 

 be thus stated. 



/,. 1(1111 ri<-(iiitiK L, irnnhiinitniii 



I'ostorliilal |iro<'i'sseH \N ilk', and Postorliilnl |>rofe.-*se> sk'Ufler, 



flurinii ibeir internal |M>sterior llu posttrior niartriiis .-t raiirbt or 



niar>;in> i-ur\i<l oiilw ardly, liicir iri<nr\fd. Ilirir point- directed 



point.-* directed outuardl.\ an<l williin I lie lateral sutures .>(' the 



witlely separated from frontal fronlals, .and in older spei-iniens 



l(ones. Supraorliilal proces.ses iif iieail> l«iiicliin); tlieni . Supraor- 



frontal- si roinrly develo|»f«| into Wital margins of fronlals serrate, 



a spur direete<l outwardly for- sonieliiiies w it h a .-in^le rounded 



ward iuid forniint;, with the post- iiotcli. 



ortiital procfss an anvil-shaped I in-jsise fur.imina Jointly forni- 



pioMioiitoiyoii eacli side the Iron- in^ra hastate lijiu re with rounded 



tuls. ape.\ and l>asally n.irrower than 



Incisive foramina, toKetlier at its median diameter. <ireal- 



forniinK a rtjjidar iso-.-eles triaii- ist tritiiiatini: uidlb of molars 



Kle the double cretiute buxe beiiiK I.J mm: lia.-ilar leugtli of skidl 




M2 



PROCKKPINOS OK Tin-; A( AlUvMV (»K 



[i8;>r). 



A. mill ric(()iiif!. A. irds/iini/dmi. 



iIk- w iiiot l>art(*f thcirL-xpaiisidii, .'"(({; /ynoiiiat if width ."{t; nivJilcHt 

 ami (ill- a|)i'X aciiti'l.x |Hiinl(.-(i. diHtaiuv lictw ini uiilcT alveoli nf 

 (iivaU.xl tritiiialiiiLr \\itilli *>f liKlit aiiilifrt iiiaxillaiicH 1^(1.7. 

 iiiolais .'i iiiiii: l>a>ilar kiis^tli of 

 skull oS; /,_\ gonial if width 'M; 

 irivatcst oiitiT distaiKv lift u cell 

 alvoolar walls of iij;lil and left 

 luaxiilaries 'Jl.o. 



It will 1)1' si'fii that tht- molar ami incisor (icniitioii oi' irii,-<hiiii/- 

 (iinl is relatively niucii weaker than in skulls ot" (iincriniiuis of" the 

 same size, with u eorri'Spomliui; narrowing ot" the palatal and rostral 

 area and a eorrespondin;; eliau^e in the shape ot" the incisive I'ura- 

 mina, the constancy of which, coupled witii the |)eculiarity of the 

 t'rontal |)rocess, is to my mind (jiiite sullicieid for a specific separation 

 of the I'aciiic and Atlantic coast representatives of this group. 



The following diagnosis is of a hare whose cranial characters are 

 distinctly the same as those of skulls of iiinertniini.'^ from Maine: 



Lepus amerioauus oolumbiensis sul* sp. nov. Tyi"'- ="' ? • No. HW, Col. of iS. N. 

 IJhoads, Veni.jii. 1!. ('nhmil>i:i. Col. I).v S. N. KJiojitls, July :^!t, I8»a 



I)c.tcri/itli)ii. .Size of average />. (iiiiericaiiiift. Summer pelage, 

 ahove, light tawny gray, blackish ou rump, tail and anterior border 

 terminal of ears; anterior base of ears, crown, cheeks, upper fore leg 

 sides of hams and upper surfaces of leet light rusty, soles of feet 

 swoty. Inner fore and hind legs, lower head, lips, breast, fore part 

 of abdomen and spot in forehead, white. Ltnver neck like back. 

 Lower ai)domen and tail bluish gray, suHused with rusty. Fur ol" 

 back with basal half plumbeous, median fourth light rusty, term- 

 inal tuurlh black, a few of the hairs w^holly black and many with 

 minute black tip, and proportionally wider rusty median zone. 



Midsiin ineiit'^. Total length 465 mm.; tail vertebne 4.'); hind foot 

 140; ear (inner anteriijr border of dry skin i, 72. Skull; total 

 length (occi|)ito-nasalj, 71i; basilar length, 62; length of nasals, ,'32.5; 

 posterior interoibital constriction, 10.2; zygomatic expansion, 38; 

 greatest length of mandible, 58; greatest width of same, 85.5. 



This strongly marked race of the Varying Hare is rei)reseiited by 

 the type and another adult female taken by me in June on the 

 Caribou lload, between Ashcroft and Clinton, !>. ( '. It represents 

 the faunal peculiarities of the arid interioi- basin of .southern British 

 Columbia, and may at once be distinguished from any of the vari- 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



ations of americaniii< east of the Rocky IMountaius by its grayuess 

 and almo.<t total lack of rufous above. From the Rocky Mountain 

 antl t-ajt Cascade form which, for present purposes, may be called 

 bairdi, the color of the feet is a <listinguisliing character, while, as 

 compared with wasliiiKjiuni, the ditltrences in color and size are ob- 

 vious euout^h to need no comment. 



IH 




244 



im{(h"i>;ki»in(js ok tiik acai»kmy ok 



[1895 



DISTRIBUTION OF THE AMERICAN BISON IN PENNSYLVANIA. WITH 

 REMARKS ON A NEW FOSSIL SPECIES. 



BY .SAMUKL N. i;il()\I>S. 



Peniisylvaniu enjoys {\\v ilislinctionot' l)oiiiji the scene of tlie inopt 

 easterly range ot" the WnHiilo, /ii.-^on l>i.<i>ii, in Norlli America. Dr. 

 J. A. Allen, whose excellent niemuir on tlie American l)i.M»iis fur- 

 nishes the l)est (lata on this snliject, lias conclusively proved its ex- 

 istence uj) to the beginning of this century as far east jis iiiithilo 

 Valley, near Lewishurg, in Union County. Tlie last huli'alo killeil 

 in that region was shot l)V ("ol. John Kelly, "al»i)ut 17!H) or J^OO," 

 on the McC'lister I'arm adjoining his own, and situate in Kelly town- 

 ship, about live miles from Lewishurg. Col. Kelly stated thai an 

 old Indian named Logan informed him ol* the former abundance oi' 

 bulfaloes in this valley. In the map of its distribution. Dr. Allen 

 practically limits the range of the luillido in the Keystone State to 

 the countrv drained by the Alleghany an<l Monongahela rivers, 

 which includes the region west of the Alleghany ri<lge (jn the south, 

 and on the north, froni a point in Clearfield county to the eastern 

 shore of Lake Erie, westward. The movement east of this area is 

 suppo.sed to have been limited to the mountain passes extending 

 along the west branch of the Susquehanna, to the forks below Lewis- 

 hurg. 



Prof Haird mention.s, in the Patent OHice Kejujrt of l.sfjl, the ex- 

 istence of bones of this species in Pennsylvania caves and alluvial 

 deposits. Dr. Allen took the pains to search for the reported remains 

 taken by Prof liaird in caves near Carlisle, but was unable to find 

 them, and (jii inquiry the Professor wrote Dr. Allen that a reexanii- 

 nation w(;uld be necessary in order to determine whether they are of 

 the bi.son, and if so of which species. The uncertainfy of the 

 matter justly led Dr. Allen to ignore it and make the Lewishurg 

 record stand as th(^ most easterly authenticated one for IS'ortii 

 America. In l.ST.'J Dr. Jo.seph Leidy de.scribed and ligurcd' the 



' Contrib. Ext. Vert. Fauna. W'asliiii^'toii 'iVrr., p. ^.'j.j, pi. XXNIIJ. 




1895.] NATCHAL SCIKNCKS OF I'H I LAriKI.Pill A. 245 



secoii<l upper molar nfji l)i.«!oii toiiinlat l'itttit(»n, Lu/AM-ne Co., Peiiii- 

 sylvaiiiu, ill as.soc'iatiuu with rlie remains <jt" the niastodou and fossil 

 horse. This he ideiitiHetl as beloui^iiig to the extinct ZJ/cfo/i iatij'runa. 

 Dr. Allen ' fiouteiids that this tooth nut oidy lucks the accessory 

 column ciiaracteristic ot" the genus Blsmi hut "it is in any case too 

 small lor a tooth of liiaon fdlifidiiK," ami thinks it "undouhtedlv 

 referahle to llie extinct musk-ox." Having examined the speci- 

 men in <|uesti<in and compared it with corre.s|Mjnding teeth of 

 HlifDu-bixDii and the ty|>es of extinct muskox in the museum of the 

 Academy of Natural Science's of Philadelphia I find that this 

 Pittxton specimen is very much worn, the triturating surface hav- 

 ing reached to the alveolar hase of the enamel on the anterior and jios- 

 terior sides. The root< of the tooth are intact, and comparison with 

 a corres|K(nding molar removed from the jaw of an adult IHsdii bison 

 from I'tali sh(»ws that the Pittston specimen is not materially larger 

 than the one from Utah. Owing to the wearing of these molar 

 teeth their triturating suifaee changes from an oldong, twice as long 

 as wide, to a nearly spiare Kgtire of nearly twice the triturating area 

 «een in the teeth of a younger adidt animal of same size. Dr. Leidy's 

 oversight of this fact was proliahly the reason for his identification of 

 the tooth as tiiat of Itimin ttillj'iniiK, to which species, it may he re- 

 marked, he had referred larger s|»ecimeiis of ihe smaller />'. tittli^jiiii.". 



Ill this respect Dr. A lien's p(jsition is miuikI; the tooth is too small 

 to heloiig to hilij'riHiK. 



( )ii the other hand it is impo.-«sil»le tliat the lootji helougs to the ex- 

 tinct musk-ox, the <;orrespoiiding molar in that animal Iteing nearly 

 twice as large in the type speeimens preservetl in llie Museujii of the 

 \eademy. The acces.sory cusp of the nioIar> of ( h'ibon cavifruM is 

 • veil more prominent than in Jiiioiii, »t) that the laik of this cusp in 

 ihe Pittston spt-eiiiu-n as clliMtually n moves it from one genus as iVom 

 the oilier, and I am inclined to <'onsider the oval median islet in the 

 '|H"ciiiien as representing an aluionnal displaeenient ol" the aceessor\ 

 lUsp of the genus fUmni. If this is '_'iaiit«Ml ( he i.| her ehai;n|ei> in- 

 dicate it to lieloli;: to ll'i.-iiii bi.iDii. 



Ot' interest in this eonneclion are ihe fust and lliinl lower molars 

 of an adult liison, eviflenllv from tin- same imliviilual, wliii Ii were 

 louiid ill the collection of the A<:idiuiv. I'liest! are mounted log4|lMr 



' 'I'll)' .\ liiiTiriiii ItJMill.H, |i IJ. 




246 rutK'KEniNos ok thk aoamkmy ok [1895. 



oil a card with tlie naiiiu "/>/•>'»;// Amrrirtmiun DeKav, Luzerne Co., 

 Ta." Accompanying tlicni iy a small card in Dr. Ixiidy'-s writing, 

 wlncii rcails: "With the 1'ori.sil tcelh from Luzerne Co., I>ut appar- 

 ently more recent. lil/om Avinifdinis.'' I have compared tiie.«e with 

 8pecinien.s of the recent animal ami find them to he .s|)ecilicallv iden- 

 tical. 



Waiving the tpictftion of the real status of the tooth figured l>v 

 Leidy from this locality, we may safely rest the eastward extension 

 of the hahitat of />/.s((/( hi.faii from Lewishurg sixty mih's along tin; 

 north branch of the Su.s<piehanna on the two lower molars. 



ill the report ofthe IVnnsylvauia CJeological Survey for liH.'S7, 

 Dr. Leidy, in a paper on limestone cave fossils ol' the State, makes 

 the following statement in relation to certain hones found in Hart- 

 mau's cave, Monroe County : — "With the remains of existing ani- 

 mals are those of a few species which no longer live in I'ennsylvania 

 * -i: -i= represented hy a few jaw fragments and teeth ofthe wood- 

 land reindeer, RdiKjifcr rarlhuii, and a lower jaw fragment with the 

 la.st molar tooth of the bison, />'. Amtricinini<." This jaw fragment 

 ami its accompanying tooth arc in the colhjction of the Academy. 

 They belonged to a full grown animal in its early prime. The crown 

 ofthe tooth has apparently l»een charred and (•rumi)le(l by lire in 

 the same manner as other bones I'rom this cave which surrounded 

 and lay within the site of an ancient lire place in the superlicial 

 layers ofthe cave floor. The man<lible, which is about four inches 

 long and two inclies wide and contains the alveoli of the three true 

 molars, is unburut and is apparently of the same recent age as the 

 remains^of the fox, wolf and deer associated therewith. 1 have no 

 hesitation in considering Dr. Lei<ly's identitication correct, and from 

 the character of the ethnological remains found in the same cave 

 and the appearance of the bone itsell", would judge it had formed 

 part of the least of :i Delaware Indian in comparatively recent times. 

 This record exten<ls the wanderings >A' Jji'ion Imoii to the Delaware 

 Valley. 



There is in the Academy's collection the basal porti(jn of a horn- 

 core of a fossil bison taken from a clo.<ed limestone crevice in Dur- 

 ham cave on the Imnk of the J^elaware near Kiegelsville, Ijiicks 

 County. This specimen is of evident antiipiity aii<l apparently be- 

 longs to the leftside ofllii' skull, having atta<'hed to the core a Inig- 

 ruent of the frontal bone, two and one-half inches sijuare. The core 




1895.] NATfKAi- ?«:;iENCES «>f I'nii.ADRr.PHiA. 247 



portion is five iiichas long sii[)eriorly and presents an nnhrokeii up- 

 per surface three inches wide at Imse. Tlie i,freater portion of the 

 |M)Sterior surface at the l)ase is also intact hut the anterior and in- 

 ferior surfaces have heen destroyed. 



The ijreate.st vertical diameter of the cttre may he approxi- 

 mated at three and one-half inches, the horizotital heing slijjhlly le.«s. 

 From the disjxisition of the deep longitudinal fj^rooves on its iniin- 

 jureil surface this core was prohahly ei<iht or ten inches lon^^ 



These measurements indicate an animal much larger than 

 the largest existing hison in America and approximate the size 

 of the smaller extinct hison, BLtoii unlii/iins of Ijeidy and 

 .Mien. A remarkaltic character of the Durham cave specimen is 

 found in its curvature and tin- relative position to the frontal plate. 

 The sn|)erinr longitudinal prolile of the core is regularly convex 

 throughout, forming the arc of a circle whose radius is ahont twelve 

 inches; the |M)sterior prttfde viewed from ahove is slightly concave, 

 the anterior is hroken, hut the direction of the grooves show it to 

 have heen convex. The superior frontal arch viewe<l from hehind 

 i.s sli:_ditly depre.ssed from the ha.se of core lt»wards (he median line of 

 the skull, hut at a distance of one and one-half inches it rises to 

 a [M)int which wonhl touch the continued arc of the sui>erior profile 

 iif the core. i'he su[H'rior hase surface of the core is very Hat, 

 descrihing in a linadth of three inches when viewed along a line 

 iit ri^'lit angle.-, to the skull, a regular arc whose radius is six inches. 

 I 111 line Iff divi.-ion lietween the h:i.se of core and frontal hone 

 laeks ill a reiiiarkal)le degree the osseous rugosity and prominence 

 seen in the other menil>ers of this ^enus. It this core iielongs to 

 the left side of the .-kull, it very closely rt-senddes the style of horn 

 seen in Hiilmln.^ l>ii(i'ilii.-< ( liliim. ) in whi<"li the drop of the horn 

 is iniitorndv ilownwanl and hackward from hase to apex, the 

 skull and horn cores I'orming, when viewed from hehind, a regular, 

 uhtu-^ely paraholic arch. Shoidd it prove, however, that the s|k ci- 

 men Indongs to the right side, the drop is a fnrward one. There 

 is a suggcrstiun of tin- genus 0»;7/.m in the llatne.>.s and downward 

 growth of this horn, hut a comparison ol" il with (K inimihuhix, O. 

 cnvlfmiin, and O. himihifnniK shows a railieal dilferenee. l-'rom 

 unmrhnliiK it is at (»nce di.stin'_'uishahle hy its narri>wne.s.s an<l ."mtMti li- 

 nens at hase of eiu'e. hv its ;_'reaier convexilv and hy the width of 

 intercorneal iliametir ul' fmntal hones ; from rnrifioiix hv the lack 




24S IMforKKPINflS OK TIIK A("AI>KMY OK [ 1 SOf). 



ofniiv iimiki'il ilopn-ssKMi ol'tlii' iiitcrcoi lu'al |»ljiU>; iVoni l>()tiil>ij'rt>Hf< 

 l)V its mucli irn'ntcr si/.c and l)V tlic lliitiicss of lioni core nl siipi'i-ior 

 \y.\sv, wliifli, in IxmihifrDiis, is liifj;lilv iUilird ms in lliwii hisnii. 

 The horn is also U-ss al)ru|>tlv ih'|tressi'(l than in liinnltifnuis, in this 

 djaracter l)eini; intrrnuMlialc lu-lween the \o\^ horni'd tyju; of Ovihux 

 and the erect tvpc o(" hison, 11. pntifmns \tv\\\\x in linn an inter- 

 niodiafe type luMwt'en llic Durham cave specimen and II. unlniiivn 

 wliicli forms the h\st. step toward the now existing 11. hixov, the 

 apical portion oi" whose horn cores is vertical when tin; skull is 

 poised at the normal facial an<:le (»f forty-livt; de}]:r<'(>8. The striking 

 peculiarities of this fossil appear to me suHicient to warrant a new 

 specific name. I would propose Hison AprAi.AriiicoM's sp. nov., 

 Type, No. 29, Col. Acad. Nat. Sciences, Phila., Durham ('ave, 

 near Kie.gelsvslle, IJucksCo. , Pa. I'osl pliocene. 



Regarding the question of the existence of' 11. hisoti in the valleys 

 of eastern Peinisvlvania since the advent of the white man in 

 America, it is jirohahlc that it had heen efiectually driven from the 

 Delaware Valley long Ix'fore that date. 



Indeeil, from the scarcity of its renuiins and the ahsence of reliable 

 tradition of its presence in this locality, it is unlikely that this species 

 was ever more than a siragtiler in the regions east of the Susque- 

 hanna lliver <lrainage. It is not unlikely that the ('arlisle cave 

 specimens will he found to belong to the same species, as originally 

 identified hy Pi"of- JJaird. 




1^9'^.] NATIRAr. SCIKNCKS OF PHri,A DF.LPH I A . -49 



May 7. 

 'I'lio President, Gknkrai. I>aai .1. Wistm:. in \ho ("hair. 

 riiiit\ -Olio persons present. 



May U. 

 The Tresident, rjioNKUAi. Naai .1. NN'isiAFi, in tlio C'liair. 

 rhirty-tive persons present. 



Thi- ilcath of Eckley l>. ( 'oxc. a iiicmhfr, \va.« announced. 

 I)r. N'ickcrs ( )lierholtzt'r read a paper on tlie geology of the 

 I.sland ..f <I':hind. ( No altsfract). 



May 2\. 

 'I'lio l'rosi(h'nt. r;i;Ni:i:\i, Isa A( J. Wista|{, in the Chair. 

 I'^ilt v-tivc persons present. 



Th*' death of Henry .John Carter, of I.KHidon, I'^ng., a eorrespon- 

 d»-Mt. ua.~ announced. 



Tlie iitllowing pa|>er8 were presented for pnldication : 



"The Kxtinetion of Speeies." I'.y ( 'harh^s .Morris. 



"Svnopfiis of the Sti/.ini of llonai .America." \'>\ W'ni. .1. Fox. 



• rroluptvchw> llatcheri, a New Undent frnm the I'inta l-loi'eiie." 



i;v Will. li. s<-oit. 



•Tile deilvdike Secretion nl'the I'riiil of reltandra uiidiil.-ita." 

 I'.v Id.a .\. Keih-r. 



May 'J«. 

 fhe rresideni, ( !i:m;i: \i. I-\ac .1. Wi-iai:. in the (hair, 

 fhirtv-one persons present. 




250 



|'1{()<i;ki>in«)s ok tiik acamkmv ok 



[lH9r). 



A memoir ot" John llowiini ludlicld, li\ TIkhiims Mccliuii, wuh 

 |)ivsfiit(Ml tor |)iil)li(':iti()ii. 



Wni .1. (JilK'spir, MI) .iiul II. (1. Crillilli. M.D.. were elected 

 iiu-mltprs. 



The tollowiii}; were onliM-cd to lu' |)riiite<l: 




l^f)5.] N'ATI' HA I. SCIENCES OF Plf II.AKKI.PIII A. 251 



THE PRIORITY OF THE NAMES CALLISTE, AGLAIA AND CALOSPIZA 

 AND THEIR USE IN ORNITHOLOGY 



i:y \virMi:i; stoni:. 



Allhoiigli till' iiiiiut' Cii/lisfr \\nii loiif^ Iteen in iroiiej-al use tor ,m 

 lar;_'e jjeniis of Soiitli Ainericjiii tiiiiajrers, a careful exaniiimtion into 

 its history se(Mns to show that it is iintenaMe in this connection and 

 that we imiat adopt in its stead the name Cttloitpiza proposed by G. 

 1{. (iray in 1.^40. 



The hirds which constitute this ^^enus were separated from the old 

 jrenus Tiiiiiitjrn almost Biinultaneoiisly hy two authors, B( tie proposing: 

 for them tluMJunie (n/lixtf ( Isis, l.S'ifl, j). 974) and Swainson the 

 nauic Aiflnin (Zool. Jour, iii, \><27, p. .'>47). 



In 1H4() (J. K. Gray established another iianic for the .-nine 

 •_'ronps: ( 'ii/i>.-</)izti, (List of ( Jenera of Jiirds, p. 44) statintr that 

 both till' previous names were preoccupied liy r((///.s7((.s' Bonelli, 1S1;{, 

 ill Coleoptera and Aijltien I^oureiro, 17^0, in IJotany. ('abanifl 

 a<lopte<l Gray's name emending it into < 'ii//i>sjil;ti but subse<piciit 

 writers have continued to use ('n/listi though several ol' them have 

 subdivide*! the genus and pro|)Osed several additional names for their 

 irroiips which are geiuM'allv consid<'red as sviionyms. However we 

 may reganl the rcjiaoiis which intlueiiced (Jiay in pro|i(»>iiig the 

 name Calnirjtizn there is certainlv no (pieslion but lliat there are other 

 tacts in the case which compel us to adopt his name. 



Sometimea^o Mr. 'I . S. I'alnier called mv atleiitioii to the fact 

 that the name CiiUisIn liud been propoM'd bv I'lili in IT'.'I, for a 

 genus of mollu>ks and asked me to examine the reference in I'oli'.- 

 work to which he had not acces>. 



Willi llie asHiMtatiee of I'lof. II A. I'ilsbry, ( 'miservator of the 

 ( 'onclioloj:ical !"N'Ction of the Academy, I have carefully stiidietl 

 the histiuv of this namr-. It wa^ ba.se<l by I'(»li i Teslacea utriiis.|iie 

 Siciliie, \'ol. I. Introdiicliuii, p. itOi upon the .'inimrils of -cveral 

 ■<|)4'cies ol" \'iiiit.\ Murlni, etc., and was siibseipieiitly restricted by 

 .Moerck who li.ved Vi nun rhionr as the ty|)e. Subsi-ipU'iit concholo- 

 gi»l.s have u.-*ed the name in a variety of ways but according to the 




-•>- l'H«>CKKI>INf)S OF TIIF A("AI»KMY OF [189r). 



present rules of nonu'iiclatiire it seems that it mut-t l»e a(l(t|)le(l for 

 tlie ^eiuis now known as Cjillinid and in anv ease it |iieeliitles the 

 nse of i'ltllixtr in nrnitlioloi;)'. 



As regards Aijluiii, while its previons use in hotnnv does not, ae- 

 eordinir t<i <»'"■ present canons of nonienclatnre, preelndc its nse in 

 ornitholoi:y, 1 (ind. nevertheless, that it is ((luidly as iMitcMal>h' as 

 ( '>i//ist,\ 



In 1<'^04 llenier ( IVospetto della ( "lassc (lei V(iriiii. p. 1(5 ) proprtsed 

 A>j/nj>i for a genns of nioUnsks now generally known as Ihniillinn. 

 hut for which Af/hiia innst he revived as recently pointed out hv 

 Prof, rilshry. 



In l<S2r) Escholtz proposed A(jl<iiii for a genus of Siphonophora, 

 and as these authors hoth antedate Swainson's pnhlication, the name, 

 of course, cannot he used in ornithology. 



Suhseipiently Afjlala has been proposed in 1H,")(), hy A I hers, for 

 another genus of niollusks and in 1H()9, hv liradv, lor a geinis of 

 Crustacea, in both of which connections it is obviously untenable. 



In view of these facts ornithologists will, I think, be compelIe<l to 

 adopt Gray's name for the genus of tanagers, the synonvmv of which 

 will stautl as follows: 



CALOSPIZA G. R. Gray 1840. 

 List of (Genera of Bird.s, p. 44, type C frifo/or (Gm. ). 



1S2(». Cil/isfr lioie. Isis, p. 974 (nee Caf/Ua Poli, 1791). 



1><27. Aqlaiit Swain., Zool. Jour, iii, p. oAl (nm- Aqlitja Kenier, 



1804). 



1850. rW///.syj/2« Caban. , Mus. Hein., p. 20. 



1850. Oyro/a Keichenb., A v. Sy.st. Nat.., Ixxvii. 



1851. Tahio Bonap., G. R. , xxxii, p. SO. 

 1851. Ctd/oxplzii Bonap., G. K., xxxii, p. 80. 

 1851. ('liriisoflir(ii(j/is lionap.. Rev. Zool., j). 142. 

 1851. f.rofliniujiis lionap. , Rev. Zool., p. 148. 

 1^51. Chti/rofhraiijiix Bonap., Rev. Zool., p. 144, 

 1851. Knyrliniinn H('].. Gontr. Ornith., p. 95. 

 1S51. Kiiprepiste ir>c]., Gontr. Ornith., 95. 




l'^?^">.] NATCKA I, SCIENCES OF Pll I f .A I >i:i. PH I A . -'^3 



THE EXTINCTION OF SPECIES. 

 I'.Y <iiAKrj> m<m:his. 



The storv of the disappearance of speeies of animals anil jilants 

 • liirinir the {;eol<»o;ipal period, and their replarenient liy new speeies, 

 is uiiieh toK obscure to atteinjit to solve except to a very partial 

 extent. Since life l»e.i;an upon the earth the pntcess of extinction 

 liJLs l)eeii seeniinijly incessant, and still" continues .<?o, Man heinj; per- 

 haps the most efficient of all the many a<;ents that have taken part 

 in this proces.*. As a rule, the extinction of forms would appear to 

 li:iv<' l»een ^^radinil, and the .«imultaneous sweepin*,' out of /real 

 Miimliers of s|tecies, which is clainted occasionally to have taken 

 place, is o|>en to (piestion, from our lack of knowled|ie of the 

 leiiirth of time really involved. There are, however, two instances 

 ill which such an extinction of numerous species within a <-oni- 

 parativdy hrief interval a|)pears certainly to hiive tak«Mi |>lace. an<l 

 it is these which I propose particularly to considt-r. These are the 

 a|)parently sudden disap|>earance of ^reat numliers of ^danl reptilian 

 Conns at the close r»f the ( 'retaceous e|»o(h. and their ri'|)lacement in 

 tile early Tertiary l>y numerous lar^re mammals: and the >imil;tr 

 siidflen disappearance of a consideralde nundier of larL-^e mammal.» in 

 the l'ost-|)liiM-ene or the early Ifei-ent period, incliidin<: the nuimmotli, 

 the American horse, the jriant sloths, etc. Althoujli no othei- than 

 ireneral causes «'an he adducetl for (extinction as a ulmie, it mav lie 

 that some parti«'ular causes eMu !»■ «i|._rL'e~led in eonnection wiiii 

 the«e two sjiecial instances. 



As an important preliminary to this invesli^ralion, some eonsitlera- 

 tion of ihr- "general eauses of (he disa|)[H'aranee of speeies i.s desiralde. 

 In the first place it is improhahle that many, if any, speeies have 

 reased to exist in coii.se<pience of t\u: direct a.ssanlls of other animals, 

 exeept in the ca<e of Man's destructive at,'ency. A species, whose 

 iudividinds are nundiered liy millions .-ind whose ran^e is ordinarily 

 very extended, is not easily to lie dis|>osed of. Animal hostility, 

 even when unrelentint' and efleetive. i.s never L'overned l»y a fixed 

 |iur|)ose of destruction. It.-> aims ;ire minor and individual; food. 




'-•'♦•^ I'KiM'KKlUNDS OK I'llK ACAI>KMY OK flSDf). 



not «l('strnrtioii. licini- its |)iir|»osf. 'I'lu- only iiiiiinals wliicli act 

 lnr;:t'ly to^rrtliiT in tlic work of (Icslnictioii iirc llic aiitw, vet with all 

 tlu'ir intelii.uciit coinirmMlioii tor this |)iir|iosc it is almost ccilMiii thai 

 no s|»ociosof insect owes itscxiinclictn to ant ajxj^rcssion. Ainonu exist- 

 in;,' animals there are certain carnivorous fishes whose destruction of 

 t»ther. lielple^ss|)ecios isainiually enormous, yet these depleted species 

 far IVom disappearin;,^ return ench year in vast multitudes to their 

 feeding <rrounds. So far as existiiifi; evidence pies, then, it seems 

 prolmhie that hostile aj^gression, while it may have occasionally heen 

 an indirect, has rarely Itcen th(> direct cause of the txlinction ol' 

 s|HX'ies. 



It is e(|ually doid)tf"ul if extinction has heen due, as a general 

 rule, to lack of suitahle food. This may have heen the case with 

 certain invertehrates adapted to very narrow food conditions, and 

 with some highly specialized vertehrates, coidincrl to a transitory 

 condition of the food-sup]»ly. liut ordinarily the food-supply, at least 

 I >f vertehrates, is wide-sprt^ail and persistcait, while most of the higher 

 animals have some power of variation in this respect, and can adapt 

 themselves to new kinds of food. It would seem most prohahic, on 

 the whole, that extinction of species has heen generally due to indirect 

 rather than to direct inHuences. Species of animals ami plants have 

 rarely, if ever, disappeared through their destruction hy other species 

 as food, and rarely through a natural insiiHicicncy ol' food. Most 

 prohahly the usual causes of destruction have been adverse con- 

 ditions of nature, and the competition of other species in the struggle 

 for food. 



Nature undoubtedly has been active in this work, her adverse 

 inriuences being violent and wide-spread ; stoinis, sudden and severe 

 changes in temperature, long- continued flood.s, extensive droughts, 

 and occasionally highly destructive volcanic or other convulsions. 

 To such influences entire species may in .some instances have 

 snccnnd)e<l, ])articularly where the adverse conditions were of long 

 continuance, while other species may have been so greatly reduced in 

 numbers and energy as to become incapable of sustaining themselves 

 :igain.st the com|)etition of more vigorous rivals. Among recent 

 instances of this kind may be classed the destruction of large 

 luunbers of cattle and other domestic animals on the western plains 

 in winters of great severity and deep snow-fall. This destru<;tion 

 takes place de8))ite all the efforts of Man to j>revent it, and would be 




1X0."). J IjfATL'KAL SCIENCES OF I'M II,A1)KI,PHIA . 255 



much greater but for human aid. On the other hand it nui^t he 

 sai<l that these animals have l)een removed from their native hahitat, 

 and that their special exposure to danger is a resuh of Man's intei- 

 t'erence with nature's adaptations. 



Organic competition takes various forms. An indirect struggle 

 between species is constantly going on. The food supply is in every 

 case limited, and is the object of an increasing contest l^etween the 

 individuals of a species and separate species, in which the most 

 vigorous individuals or the best ada|)ted species are likely to win. 

 In this contest size and strength of a species are rarely assurance of 

 success. 8ize may be detrimental, as necessitating more food, while 

 strength is of little avail where the contestants are not directly 

 l»itted against each other. The mastodon, for example, needing 

 great quantities of herbage for its food supply, might, in cases of 

 severe drought, succumb to the food cnmpetitiou of the rabbit, or 

 some still more insignificant creaturi'. which, spreading in vast 

 numbers over the country, devoured the sparse herbage ami left its 

 hutre comjKititor to starve. An army of locusts has niore than once 

 brought great numbers of mm to the verge of starvation, despitr 

 .^lau's intelligent and condiined resistance. The |>otato bug is 

 t-apable o*" tlepriving a nation of its Ibod, and a blighting fungus nuiy 

 destroy the crop u|h)u which a whole people relies. It needs all 

 Man's care and prevision to |»rev»'nt insect foes from destroying his 

 food supply. The lower nianmialia have no modes of defence 

 a-/aiiist such a.ssaults and no |M»wer of providing granaries (>f f(Mjil 

 against times of need. Thus hosts of hcrbivora may liavt- irc(pien(ly 

 [K'rished in consiMpu'iice of an in.sect assault upon their food; ;ind 

 numerous rarnivora, thus deprivetl ol ihtirfood, may liavr siniilnrly 

 |Mri>hed. ^'et on llie oilier band, thf lowt-r |»lan(-ealing ni:niini,-ilia 

 ari' minli h-s cxpo-fil than M;in to ibis speri;il dauL'" r, Irom (lie 

 fart that fi-w ol" tliem feed, lik«' him, on fruits and setds, I heir 

 general ftM>d supply being I la- abundant gra.s.si',s, and the leaves and 

 twigs of trees, a ituppiv which is much less likely to fail. 



An advt-rsr *ntluencf, of llu- nalun- ol" ilirecl assault, and one 

 which at lim«'S nuiv have been cnorniou.sly destructive, ninains to 

 Im' mentioiii-d. This i.s the aggn'ssive action of the minute organisms 

 known as barti-ria, of which the dis«'a.«*e- ppMlucing spfcic- have at 

 limes proved the niosl dangerous of all tin- known cnfmio of Man. 

 At pn-stiil, however, the indications are that they are mneb less 




-■•'' l'K<H'KKI>IN(JS (»K Till-: AC'AUKMY <>K, [1S95. 



iU'.<triictivf Id iIk' lower aiiiiiial.s tlitiii to Man, the dinerc'iicc liciiig 

 line Id tlilliiviioe ot" liCc lial»i(s. 'IMioiiirli liaeh-ria aiitl odur discase- 

 lirnilueiiij; ai,'vints may at tinie.s in tin; past liavi' atta<kiil s|.( cics of 

 aiiiiiial.s (IcstriR'tively. it is |)roi»al>le tiiat tliey iiavc piayctj Itni a 

 iiiiiitM- part ill tli*- oxtinctiuu of species. 



There is still aiiolher interi'stin^ natural condilidii to consider in 

 our review of the Lceneral causes of the extinction of species. ( )ne 

 It'iidency, which has particidariy inanil'esleil itself in iierliivorons 

 aniinals, has fretpienlly IimI directly to their destruction. This is the 

 teiiilency to increase in size through the doid)ie iiitluence of ahiiud- 

 ance ot' food an<l little wa.ste ol' tissue throu<;h exertion. In the 

 sluiji^isii 2;riu<s- eaters, dweirni;.^ on plains covered with rich herhage, 

 or leaf and twig eaters in tropical I'orests, the nutritive agencies are 

 in excess of those of waste, and these animals seem always to have 

 tended to an increase in size, until those of least exertion and 

 greatest powers of ohtaining i'ood hecanie enormous in dimensions. 

 An e.xaniple of the same kind among the cjirnivora is tlie (Jreen- 

 hind whale, which, while feeding on minutt; forms, ohtains them in 

 enormous fpiaiilities with little muscidar exertion, and has in c»>nse- 

 t|Uence hecome of extraordinar\- dimensions. 



l:\ the case of the herhivora this increase in size has expo.'^ed them 

 to increasing danger of starvation in eases of great drought, and from 

 the food competition of smaller hut more numerous animals, and 

 many species may have hecame extinct through this cause. It is 

 proliahle that a struggle has long gone on hetween the tivo organic 

 tendencies — on the one hand to increase in hulk; on tlu? other to 

 increase in activity — the victory linally falling to tin- smaller, more 

 active, and more mentally energetic f<n-ms, through their ahility to 

 survive on less I'ood an<l their superior powers of resistance to nature's 

 adverse intluences. It is pca-haps mainly >\uv to this that the bulky, 

 sluggish and mentally dull creatures of the past have given way to 

 the smallei' hut more a(;tive an<l intelligent animals of the present. 



This leads us directly to tin: prohleni of the ili>a)ipearance of the 

 great Cretaceous reptiles — the first of the two s|»ccial cases to he con- 

 siderefl. The inlluences flescrihed mav have hail something to do with 

 this event, hut are far fron) snliicient to explain tin; sudden dis- 

 appearance of so nnniy species of animals of vaiied hahilat, f(»od and 

 conditions (»f life. However far laii<l animals may have been 

 thus allecled, the great ocean reptiles C(Mdd haidly have succumhed 




iSOo.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF HHILADEI.PHIA. 257 



to these in Huences. Nature lia.-* heeu tre»iueutly creilitvd with this 

 ilestructive work, soiuo world-wide eouvulsiou heiiig calletl in to do 

 (hity as an etHcient aj^^ent. But this cataclysmic theory has been 

 largely over-employed, and couUl hardly have cuntine<l its ravages to 

 the larger reptiles, of sea and land alike, while leaving the smaller 

 reptiles and the contemporary maninials unharmed. 



In seeking to discover some adetjuate cause for so great a natural 

 event, one destructive agency, not as yet mentioned, oHers itsell as a 

 nut improhahle explanation. Il is one neither of inorganic acti<in, of 

 food competition nor of direct assault. ( >n ihe contrary it is a kind 

 of indirect as.siult — an a<sault not on the anitnals themselves, hut on 

 their egifs and v<»inig. This ilestructive iuHuence is one that is very 

 prevalent in the animal world. It is etticient in keeping down the 

 numhers of prolific forms at pre.-eiil, and may have had much to do 

 with the extinction of s|iecies in the past. It i> a tianger to which 

 the niannnalia are exposcil only in the case of their young, and in 

 this ca.<e only to a minor degree, I'roni tlnir vigilant care of their 

 voung; i>ut to which the iish, re|>tiles and liirds are exposed in the 

 case of their eggs ua well. 'Ihe evoluticjii ol" instinct has taught 

 hirds to care for their egirs anti yoinig, and thus in great measure to 

 e.-(cape this peril. In reptiles this instinct of carefulness is very 

 little developed, and in lishes scarci-ly at all. Fish spei-ies, indeed, 

 escape annihilation mainly through fecundity. Though myriads of 

 their eggs an<l yoinig are devoured, enough escape to ensure the con- 

 tinuance of the s|H'cies. The re|>tiles are internie<liate hetween the 

 Itirds and the fishes in the.^i- particular.*, less proliiic than the latter, 

 less careful than the former. Existing reptiles take littU- or no care 

 ol' their young and rarely any spi-cial care of their eggs. I lie 

 turtles couceal theirs very skilfullv in the siind and leave them tu 

 cliaiicf and .secrecy forsiifetv; the youn^, wlnn h:il<lnil, liiiui: very 

 ai^ile in their escape to the water. IJut e;:gs an<i youn;; alike have 

 their enemies. The former are often discovered and devoured; the 

 latter have numerous fo«-s in :iiid mit ut the water. Only a mere 

 trai'tion of" the hrood escap»rs to keej) alive the specie.-. The crocudile 

 lays its eggs in the warm sand, or in a heap ol' mud oi- decaying 

 vegetation, and pays no further attention to them. The :dligat(U° is 

 more careful, keeping s^n\u^ measure of watch and wanl over its eg;;.-*. 

 Ihe existinir land reptiles — the snakes. Ii/.ard> and land Inrlle! — as 

 a rule, pas hut lillle atteniiuu to the fule of their eggs and young. 




258 I'ROCKEniNGS OK THK ACAOKMY OK [1895. 



anil in many niscs leave lliem larmly tu ciianci', tiieir sole tiiist 

 luiiii,' in coiK't'alinent. 



The decree of care paid Ity existing reptiles to the I'ale of llii'ir 

 eiTi^s, small as it is, may have l)een the result oi' a lon^-continned 

 stru^Tijle for existence. As the activity and inj.;enuity (»f their foes 

 increased, so may have increaseil reptilian care and fecundity. 

 I'rohalily ap's a^o hotli less heed was jj^iven to the security of the 

 e;:::a than now ami the peril was less imminent. There ha,s very 

 likely heen a campaign of education on both sides. Yet it may he 

 that the continued existence of the modern reptilian families is in a 

 measure due t<» some degree of care always exercised over their eggs. 

 And it is |)ossil)le that little care may have been taken Ity the giant 

 Mesozoic reptiles, and that their extinction was largely Am: to this 

 cause. 



The views here expres.sed certainly lead us to a fuller compre- 

 hension of the situation in which the Cretaceous reptiles were placed. 

 These creatures, large and small alike, were egg layers, and their 

 eggs and young were exposed to the peculiar dangers above indi- 

 cated. To what extent they took care of their eggs we cannot know, 

 hut to judge from the habits of existing reptiles their care was not 

 great. We are aware that these huge creatures })osses8ed very 

 small brains, and must conceive that they possessed little or no 

 intelligence, being governed in great measure by the instincts 

 acquired during past ages of slow develupmeiit. These instincts 

 were gainetl at an early period in which the eggs were little exposed 

 to <langer and .^tood in no great need oi' protection. They were likely 

 to be of little avail in an age in which the growing intelligence ol the 

 smaller animals may have greatly increased the danger in this 

 direction. 



As regards the great ocean reptiles of the period in question, their 

 vulnerable point was undoubtedly in their habit of egg-laying, since, 

 like their modern representatives, the turtles, they must have laid 

 their eggs on the shores — perhaps with some elli>rt at concealment in 

 the sand — and left them to nature and fortune. 'I'he great land 

 reptiles were probably little if any more heedful, if we may judge 

 from the habits of existing lan<l reptiles, whose small degree of care 

 is in part an outcome (tf later evolution. v\gai?i, those huge creatures 

 probablv lai<l but few eggs — certainly nnicth few<'r than the smaller 

 animals whusc rontiniied existence niay lie largidy due (o their 




1895.] NATI'RAL, SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



fecundity. In consequence their danger of extinction through the 

 destruction of their eggs was correspondingly increased. 



In review of what is above said, it may be remarked that in the 

 early days of reptilian dominance, and of general lack of animal 

 activity and intelligence, the reptilian lords of the earth were exposed 

 to little danger of l)eing devoured in the egg by hungry enemies, and 

 needed little care for eggs and young; the result being that no very 

 marked instinct of concealment or personal supervision became de- 

 velope<l. But during the later Mesozoic period, an important change 

 took place in the situation. Ages before the reptiles lost their domi- 

 nance a new order of beings, the mammals, had come into existence. 

 The ancestors of the mammalia — typified by the modern Ornithorhyn- 

 chus — were themselves egg-layers. Marsupial mammals followed, 

 and continued throughout most of the Mesozoic age. Insignificant 

 in size, and probably as lacking in intelligence as their reptilian 

 competitor.-, these creatures long contented themselves with gleaning 

 after the great reptiles, with no evidence of ability to compete with 

 them. Finally appeared the placental mammals, whose voungwere 

 at birth able to take care of themselves. And, with the coming ot 

 this animal type the prevailing stupidity began to yield to a mental 

 condition a step nearer intelligence. 



The reptiles had hitherto occupied the field, the mammals being 

 helpless against them by any direct methods of assault, while the- 

 greater activity of the latter, and the consumption of the bulk of the 

 food supply by the great reptiles, checked any disposition in the 

 mammals to increase in size. It is not unlikely that the newcomers 

 gained the victory at length by the indirect methods indicated, an 

 a.«sault u{)on the eggs, and perhaps tlu' young, of their powerful rivals. 



It is highly [)robable that the placental mammals, with slowly ile- 

 veloping intelligence, adopted, from time to time, new methods of 

 attack; while the reptiles, depending mainlv u|)on previously ac- 

 <|uired instincts, were very much slower in developing new methods 

 of defence. The reptiles, therefore, eventually found themselves at 

 a serious disa<lvantage in competition with their small, active, an<l 

 more cunning opponents. Contemporaneous with the great reptiles 

 were multitudes of prowling creatures, small and agile, whose grow- 

 ing mental powers gradually !iiade them aware that reptilian eggs 

 were full of savory nutriment, and in time taught them tlh- simple 

 arts of conceuImeDt of the sea monsters, and how to circumvent the 




"liW IMJdCKKDINOS OK I'lIK ACADKMV OK [1895. 



watt'ht'iilness, it' any existed, ottlic small-hraiiu'd land ^naiits. Tlie 

 reptilian stream i)t" lite, in sliort, may luive been thus assailed with in- 

 creasing pertinacity and intelligenceat its souree.the eggs devoured, the 

 vounir perhaps destroyed, and tiie nund)ers ot'tiiese lords of land and 

 sea rapidly reiluced. As Achilles had his only vulnerable spot in 

 the heel, these giant reptiles had theirs in the nest. The egg-destroy- 

 ing mammals had a double advantage. Laying no eggs themselves, 

 anil caring for their young, they could only he destroyed when in the 

 mature stage, while their assault upon their foes was by the safer and 

 more effective process of devouring them in the e^^is; — a method which 

 niav well have caused rai)id reduction in numbers and linal extinc- 

 tion. The reptilian forms which continued to exist were likely to be 

 the smaller and more proliHc ones, and perha})S those which had 

 developed somewhat efficacious methods of caring for their egii;:^ — 

 methods which may have continued to improve as the mental 

 acuteness of their foes increased. 



The ground once cleared by the disappearance of the larger 

 reptiles, the subsequent rapid development of the mammalia is 

 readily comprehensible. They now became the dominant class, and 

 in all ages of geological history each new dominant class has ex- 

 panded rapidly in nund)ers, in variety of species, and in life of 

 individuals. They were no longer forced to glean after the harvest 

 of powerful competitors, but had the earth's stores of food for their 

 own. s>nd developed accordingly, the remaining reptiles becoming in 

 their turn the gleaners after the harvest. Not only the land, but 

 the ocean, had lost its masters and become an open field for compe- 

 tition. Its reptilian dynasties, impregnable by direct assault, and 

 having no powerful enemies in their liquid domain, had yielded to 

 indirect attack, and mammalian life quickly overflowed into this 

 great reservoir of food in the form of seals, cetacea, and other air 

 breathing swimmers. The axe had been laid to the root of monster 

 reptilian life, and a new race of lords of the earth succeeded. 



To come now to the second instance of extinction alluded to, that 

 of the Post- pliocene, or Recent period, it is one that is, in some of its 

 features, very difficult of explanation. The only general cause that 

 has been adduced for it. that of the intense chill and deep snow-fall 

 of the Glacial Age, in all probability had much to do with it, though 

 certainly not all. As regards the mammoth and the woolly rhinoceros 

 of Euro|)e and Asia, there seems much reason to believe that they 




1895.] XATURAI. SCIENCI'S OF PHILADELPHIA. 261 



perished from the cold. This seems probable from their high 

 northern range, and the immense store of their remains now existing 

 in northern Siberia, and in the ice-bound Liakhow or New Siberian 

 Inlands. A similiar fate may have overtaken the Irish elk, the 

 urus, the mastodon, and other animals, but such was certainly not 

 the case with the American horse, nor with the giant sloths and the 

 glyptodon of South America, animals which became extinct during 

 the same period. 



The disappearance of the horse, in America, is an unsolved mys- 

 tery. This animal extended in range through a double continent, 

 and has left its remains from Alaska to Patagonia. The horse, it is 

 true, is one of the most highly specialized of animals, and thus be- 

 longs to the class that is most liable to sudden extinction. But its 

 specialization is not one that confines it within narrow or local limits 

 or to a temporary phase of conditions. It is at home on the firm, 

 grassy uplands, and is unsuited to forest, mountain, or moist low- 

 lands. In the eastern hemisphere the natural habitat of the horse 

 is on the steppes of Asia, while other species of the genus inhabit 

 the plains of southern Asia and of Africa. In the western hemi- 

 spliere it was probably most abundant on the open plains of 

 central and western North America, and on the great grassy plains 

 of the southern continent. As regards the habitat of the North 

 American horse, it is one that is exjwsed to snows, frequently severe 

 ones, in the winter season. The same may have been the case in 

 Asia, if the habit of scraping witii the fore- feet, which is j)Ossessed bv 

 tlie horse, arose, as has been supposed, from an instinct of scraping 

 away the snows to get at the herbage beneath. Despite this instinct, 

 in abnormal winters, many horses must have perished through the 

 depth and j)ersistance of the snows, as many cattle and sheep do now. 

 During the glacial period this condition existed in an exaggerated 

 • legree, and may have caused the extinction of the North .Anicrican 

 horse. .Most of its original range was buried under mountains t»f 

 ice, which persisted for many centuries. South of the ice limit very 

 frigid conilitions must have existed, and deep and persistant snows 

 each winter probably covered all the situtliein regii»n> of the I'nitetl 

 States and the plateau of Mexico. 



I'nder such conditions the lutrse might well have become extinct. 

 Munv (;r)ntt'm|M>rarifS, such as the bison, the antelope, etc., could 

 have taken refuge in the forest and swampy regions of the semi- 




~^- PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OK [1895. 



tropical lowhuids; but these were not suitable habitats for the horse, 

 which could only thrive on the tirin and grassy uplands, and which 

 nuiy in consetpunce have l)econie extinct at this time in North 

 A njerica. 



This explanation, however, fails to account for tiic disa|)pearance 

 of the South Americau horse, or of its hutre contemporaries, the 

 megatherium, niegalonyx, niylodon and glyptodon. The disap- 

 pearance of the last named animals, in view of their sluggishness and 

 stupidity, is not inexplicable, since it may have been due to a cause 

 similiar to that we have adduced in the case of the cretaceous reptiles — 

 the destruction of their young by more agile and cunning animals. 

 To this it may be objected that in such a case they would probably 

 have disappeared early, and never attained their wide distribution. 

 But this by no means follows. Intelligent animals may rai)idly 

 develop new methods of attack. Unintelligent animals are not 

 likely to develop new methods of defence with similar rapidity. If 

 some active carnivorous animal, therefore, began to attack and 

 destroy the young of the giant sloths in a new and covert manner, the 

 parents may have proved quite incapable of guarding against this 

 suddenly developed danger, and the coming generations of these 

 creatures may have been fatally reduced. 



We must, however, in considering the problem of the disappear- 

 ance of the animals in question, take into account a hostile agency 

 which did not exist at any earlier period — that of Man. A new 

 lord of the earth had appeared, and one with j^owers of destruction 

 never before possessed in the animal world. Within quite recent 

 times several species of animals have become extinct through human 

 aggression. Others may have become extinct in the past. We know 

 that the early savages of Europe killed the horse and other large 

 animals for food, and the early Americans may have done the same. 

 Man may have played an active part in the extinction of the giant 

 sloths and the glyptodon — it they persisted till the liuraan period — 

 by destroying their young, even if he did not attack the mature 

 animals — and have thus cut off these specially dull and slothful 

 species. 



Such an explanation will not account for the extinction of the 

 South American horse, nor does any hypothesis — even of an unsatis- 

 factory character — suggest itself. It is true that some entertain 

 the idea that the South American horse did not i)ecome extinct. 




1895.] NATl'KAI- SC'IENC'P:S of PHILADELPHIA. 26o 



Not niiiny years after the horse had been introduced into South 

 America by the Spaniards, the crew of a ve.^.sel, sailing along the 

 coast, .saw a number of horses at a point several hundred miles 

 distant from the small settlements to which horses had been 

 brought from Europe. It is considered questionable that horses 

 which may have escaped from these settlements could have increased 

 in a few years sufficiently to extend several hundred miles away. 

 That the horses thus seen were native animals is possible, though 

 very doubtful, since it seems probable that the native American 

 hor.^e, though of the same species with tlie European, may have 

 presented some varietal differences in appearance. All that we 

 can .say is that this incident leaves the question of the extinction 

 of the South American horse open to .some, though a verv slight, 

 degree of doubt. If, as is [)rol)al)le, it became extinct, the cause of 

 its extinction must remain an unsolved mystery. In short, the 

 wholo subject (jf animal extinction is one that is rife with difficulties. 

 The best that can be done is to otier some suggestion of causes that 

 may have aided in the disappearance of species: It is quite probable, 

 however, that many intitiences were at work of which we are ignor- 

 ant, antl most of which will always remain beyond the scope of 

 human inve.stigatiou or conjecture. 




264 PROCEKDINGS OK TIIK ACADKMY OK [IHHf). 



SYNOPSIS OF THE STIZINI OF BOREAL AMEBICA. 

 BY WII.I.IAM .1. VOX. 



In working over the fossorial wasps belouging to the genera in- 

 cluded in Handlirsch's monograph' it seemed to me that, inasmuch 

 as the latter's work is probably inaccessible to most American 

 entomologists, the publication of synoptical tables of those genera 

 elsewhere, together with such notes as may be available, and the 

 description of new species should there be any, would be of service 

 to those interested in the subject. It is my hope to work gradu- 

 ally over the genera monographed by 'the above author, and to 

 prepare from time to time synoptical tables for publication. 

 Therefore, this paper may be considered the first of a series, which 

 I trust will be concluded in the near future. 



The two genera composing the Stizini maybe separated as follows: 



Marginal cell about twice as long as the flrnt subniarginal ; spurH of 

 hind tibiie enlarged in 9 and the pygidium well developed ; 

 abdomen ( $ ) with a single spine at apex. Spiiecius. 



Marginal cell much shorter than the first submargiual ; spurs of 

 hind tibiie short in both sexes, not enlarged ; no well-developed 

 jjygidium, at theimost with a short ridge on each side of the 

 last dorsal abdominal segment ; abdomen ( ^ ) with tliree spines 

 at apex. Sxizrs. 



SPHECIUS Dhll). 



Sp/iex Drurv (in pt.) Ins. II, I'l. 88. fi^. 1, p. 71, 1773. 

 S/i:tis Latreille, Tab. En.ycl. et Methcd. p). 382, fig. «, 1809. 

 Sphecius Dahlbolim, Hyni. Eur., p. 1.54. 184.T. 

 Hofrardia Lepeletier de St. Fargeaii, Hj'iii. Ill, p. 288, 184.5. 



Stizus, various authors. For full sviiouyniy see Handlirsch, Sitzb. Akad. 

 Wissensch. Wien. XCVIII, Bd., Abth. 1, p. 441. 



FEMALKS. 



Abdomen with segments 1-.S only of abdomen spotted with yellow. 



Black, legs rufous ; punctuation of second dorsal abdominal seg- 

 ment rather close speciosus. 



Entirely rufous, excepting of course the abdominal and face mark- 

 ings ; punctuation of second d<»rsal abd(jminal segment very 

 sparse convaUis. 



' Sitzungsberichte der K. .\kadeniie der Wissenscliaften. Mathematisch- 

 natunvissenschaftliclie ('lasse. XXXV — LI. 




1895.] XATLKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



Abdomen with segnieuts l-fJ npotted with yellow. Color varyiug 



from black to rufoiit?. with intermediate forms (/randis. 



Abdomen red and bhuk, not sjiotted Hof/ardii. 



.M.VLK.'i. 



Joint.-? of tlagellum n<jt ("trongly ronnded out beneath. 



Black, leg."* r II f<Hi8 spt ciot^iiK. 



Hufou.« in greater part. 



Abdomen rufous, the first three segments maculated with yel- 

 low (OtivftUiti. 



Abdomen rufoiis and black Honnrdii. 



Jointsof tlagellum strongly munded out bentath:abdominal markingiii 

 not confined to the first three segments, all the dorsal .-segments 



lieing maculated. Color varying from bla<k to ruf(His 



t/raiidis. 



1. Sphecias speciosus I>r. 



Sf>lu\r spiiiosus Dnirj-. 1. c 



I'espj tricincta Kabricius. .^yst. Ent., [>. 3tj3. 



Stiztis vespi/ormis I^atreille. 1. c. 



SlizHS spfciusns Lepeletier de St. Fargeau ct Servifle, Kiuvcl. .Mitliod. 



pi. 3K2. fig. B. 

 Hov^ardia spcciosa Lepelctier <le St. Fargeau, 1. c. 

 Sphecius speciosus DahlhoLni, 1. c. 

 Stiztis speciosus Packard, I'roc. Fut. Soc, I'hila., VI, [>. 142. 



Common in the Eastern United States ; Texas; Mexico ( Hnnd- 

 lirsoh). 



2. Sphecias conrallis Putt. 



Slizus ffrandis Packard (non .^Niy) 1. c. p. 442. 



Sphtcitis speciosus var. convallis Pattoii, Hull. V. S. (ii-ol. .Survey. 



p. 343, 1879, $ 9 . 

 Sphecius raptor Handlirs<-1), 1. c, p. 4«>1. $ 9 . 

 Sphecius convallis Fox, Proc. <alif. .\tad. Sci.. [2J IV, \\ l"'3. 



Kansas ; Texas ; California ; lyjwer California. The second ab- 

 dominal segment in $ is not sparsely punctured like the 9 , hut is 

 about the same as in the $ of "/ycr/aHK.". 



3. Sphecini Ho^ardii batr. 



Stizus Hogardii I^treille, (Jeneni Crust tt Ins., I V, p. KHi. Plate X III. 



f.l2, 9. 

 Hogardta rufescrns Lep<leti<r de St. Fargeau, Myin.. Ill, p. 2X9, 

 Stizus //ofrardii HwHh. Cat. Hyiii. Hrit. Mus,, IV. p. 33<J, Plate VIII, f. 4. 



This i>i a West Indian species, l»ut has l)ecn recorded from Key 

 \Vc«.t and the Jjahamas, aii<I uni-t therefore he added to our Ii-t.«. 



4. Sphecini grandii .Say. 



Stizus frraiidis .Say. We.st. 4uart. Kep. II. p. 77. 

 Stizus/en-idus Ocmoii. Tr, .\iner. Knt, S<.r. IV, p. 223, 9 

 Stizui urz'adeusis i'rfsnt>n, iliid, V, p, 1»H, ^ 




'2M rKOlKKMINOS UK lUK ACAUK.MN lU [IXi)"). 



Tennessee (Hiiiullirscli ) ; Arkiuisus (Say); Missouri (Rikn'j; 

 Texas: New Mexico (Cockerell ); Utah; Mevada ; Washinn;toii. 

 Handlirscli fonsidors iji'inul'nf and fn-rltlns as ilisti net species, l)ut the 

 distin<;uishing eharacters iriveii hy liini, (the coh)ration and sculpture 

 of thorax above) are shown to he variable hy a series of twenty-three 

 examples l)ef(>re ine, and the culiir of the winus is not constant. 



STIZUS Latr. 



Sfiziis Latroillr. Histoiri' iiatun-llc. III. 311. ISO-,'. 

 Biiyrtes Lei)t'lutii'r tie .St. KiirneiUi. Hyiii., III. \>. WA. is^i. 

 /it>n/>ec in us (\)stii. Fan nil del l\i'j;ii«> di Napoli, 4, ls.l!». 

 Larra Smith (iion Fahr. ) Cat. Hym. B. M., IV, j). 837. 

 Mts:astizus I'atton. Hull. U. S. (Jeol. Survey, V, p. 3:i4, 1879. 



FKMAI.RM. 



Middle se^nieut eniargiuate posteriorly at the sides; females . 2 

 Middle segment not emarginate, tiie i>ostero-lateraI angles 



rounded 4 



'1 — Second submarginul cell distinctly petiolate '.\ 



Second snbmarginal <'ell not jietiolate, but the first and second 

 transversu-cubital nervures touch at the marginal cell; space 

 between hind ocelli sliglitly greater than that between them 

 and nearest eye margin; autennse placed at a distinctly greater 

 .♦distance from the clypeus than from the eyes; black, with yel- 

 low maculatious, the greater j)art of coxfe, trochanters, tibite 



and the tarsi entirely, yellow; legs robust iieglectHn. 



8 — Antenna' j)laced at about the same distance from clypeus as from 

 the eyes; sjjace between hind ocelli just about e(|ual to that be- 

 tween them and nearest eye margin ; not densely hirsute; tibije 

 only in j)art yellow ; hind tarsi entirely black . . . (iodmani. 

 Antennjc placed somewhat farther away from the clypeus than 

 from eye margin; space between hind ocelli greater than that 

 between them and nearest eye margin; rather densely hirsute; 



tibife and tarsi entirely yellow nanus. 



4 — First and second transverse-cubital nervures widely separated 



above. Size very large o 



First and second transverso-cubital nervures narrowly separated 

 or meeting at the marginal cell; deep black, the second dorsal 

 abdominal segment with a broad, reddish fascia, sometimes in- 

 terrupted medially, but rarely absent; wings blue-l)Iack, the 



apical margin of anteriors whitish uniciuctHH. 



5 — ^'ellowish spots on dorsal abdominal segments 3 and 4 extended 

 so that they nearly meet internally; clypeus hardly as broad as 

 the combined length of the first three antennal joints united, 

 its anterior margin rather strongly incurved; lateral ridges of 

 pygidial area fully twice as long as the latter is broad at apex. 

 hrevipenniM. 




1895.] NAXrRAL SCIENCKS OK PHIX.ADEI.PHIA. 267 



Yellowish spot* mi dorsal abdomiual .segments 8 and 4 disiinctly 

 separated internally: olypeus about as broad as the three lirst 

 joints of antenna' united are long, its anterior margin not 

 strongly incurved, subtruneate: lateral ridges of pygidial area 

 short, not twice as IcMig as the latter is broad at apex . texanna. 



MALKS. 



1 — Middle segment emargiuate posteriorly at the sides; twelfth an- 



tennal joint spiuose beneath 2 



-Middle segment not emarginate, the postero-lateral angles 

 njunded: twelfth anteuual joint not spinose -5 



li— lilack, with paler markings :; 



Yellow, with black markings 4 



3— Seventh ventral segment slightly carinated down the middle; 

 space between eyes at base of clyjieus distinctly less than the 

 combined length of joints 1 and li of tlagellum: spine at ape.x 

 of eleventh antennal joint straight, rather short and indistinct; 



tibi;e iu part black Godmani. 



."Seventh ventral segment flat, not carinated; space between the 

 eyes at ba.se of «-lyi>eus about equal, or nearly so, to the com- 

 bined length of joints 1 and -1 of the flagellum: spine at apex 

 of eleventh antennal joint curved, long and prominent; tibiio 

 entirely yellow nanus. 



4 — Second sul)marginal cell distinctly petiolate Jtavua. 



Sei'ond submarginal cell not petiolate jan(/ioc/iroiis. 



•5 — First and second transverso-cubital nervures widely separated 



alj<jve. Size large 6 



First and second transverso-cubital nervures narrowly separated 

 above or melting. Si/e medium; entirely deep black, the 

 second dorsal abdominal segment with a reddish fascia; wings 

 blue-black, the api<;al margin whitish in)iriiictnA. 



•>— Yellowish spots on dorsal alidominal segments .! and 4 extended, 

 so that they nearly meet internally; la^I dorsal segment 



rounded at aj>e.\ hn vijn miix. 



Yellowish spots on dorsal abdominal segments :J and 4 widely 

 separated internally; last dorsal segment with a ■^mall, but <lis- 

 tinet einargination at a|»e.\ >> '■■""k, 



1. Stizus Godmani ('utneniii. 



Mti:its (Jodinjiii C;»m., Biol. O-iitr. .\iiut., Hym., IM. \ . Hk. s, h. Ii. c. 9 ^ . 

 Sfi:iis aj^ilis ("am. ( lum S. a(;ilii Sm. '. ibid., p. l<ci. 



Mexico (Cameron;: I.^>\ver California ; Santa Ke nin! L:i- ( rii<es, 



New Mexico (Cwkerell); Colorado. 



2. Stizai nanui iidl. 



Sliziis uaiiiiy Maii(llir>Mli..Sit/)i Ak.nl. NVi*Miit<li.. Wi.ii, 1,1. I'-l., Alitli . I. p. 



01. ,? 9. 

 Georgia. 




-^^ PUdORKlUNOS OK IMK A( AUKMY OK [IH^f). 



3. Stizus flavus ( am. 



5//r;/.? yfai'us i'iunvron. I.e.. p. KW I'l. \', liy. !', :i. I>. <•.. ^. 

 Mexico (Cameron); .Lower ( 'alilornia ; New Mexico (('dckerell ); 

 Colorado fCiillette). 



4. Stizus servilli St. Vhtk- 



/iiryr/f.t Sft--i//i 'At. FarKcmi. Hyin.. III. p. 53, 1S45. 

 S/i:i(S St't-i'illii Haiullirsch, I.e., p. ti'v 



Philadelphia (St. Fargeau). riikiiowu to me. 



5. Stizas xanthcohrous Ihll. 



S/iziis Xiiiilho, hroiis Hamllirscli, I.e.. p. (iit. I'l. I. Iij;.s. 1<), 10. 



Texas: Cypress Mills (Coll. Ashmead). Resembles /a ('»/.<, I)i it 

 the second suhmarginal cell is not petiolate. 



6. Stizas moneduloides Sm. 



Larra moncdiiloidts .Smith. Cat. Ilyiii. U. M.. I\'. p. 43«. ^ 9. 

 fiembfciniis moneduloides Cresscin, Synopsis, j). 278. 

 Stizus moneduloides Handlirseh, I.e., p. 60. 



Florida (Smith); Mexico (Cameron ). Unknown to me. Hand- 

 lirseh rei^fards his naiiKs as possil)ly identical with this species, l)ut 

 Smith's description is not sufficiently clear to decide it, as he does not 

 say whether the second sii1)mar<rinal cell is petiolate, or not ; accord- 

 ing to Cameron who reports tlie species from jSIexico, this cell is not 

 petiolate, which fact would indicate that nanus is distinct from it. 



7. Stizus neglectus Cress. 



Jfonedula ne,i,^lecla Crcsson, Tr. Am. Kiit. Soc. IV, p. 222, ^ . 

 Siizus neglectiis Handlirseh, I.e.. i). 70. 



Comal Co., Texas. 



8. Stizus unicinctus Say. 



Sliziis nniciiictus .Say, West. Quart. Kcp., II. p. 77. 



Larra unicincla Cres.son, I'roc. Ent. Soe., I'hila., IV. p. 472. 



S/icus uniiini /us Cres.son, Synopsis, p. 27H. 



Occurs throughout the Western States. 



9. Stizus brevipennis Walsh. 



Slizus brevipennis Walsh. Amer. F^ntom., I, p. 102. J . 



Larra. Brendeli Ta.sehenberK, Zeitsch.. f. d. g. Natiirw.. i>. 301, 187.5. 



Mesiaslizus brevipennis I'attoii, Hull. L'. S. Geo). Survey, V. p. .345. ^ 9. 



Texas and Illinois. 



10. Stizus tezanus Cress. 



Slizus lej^aniis ('Teanon, Tr. Am. Knt. Sue., IV, p. 222, ^ J- 

 Mefraslizus brci'ipennis Cresson (in pt. ), S.vnop8i8, p. 278. 

 Slizus texanus Handlirseli. I.e.. p. 170. PI. 1. figs. 6, 14, 15: PI. II, fig. 29: PI. 

 Ill, fig. 10. 



Texas. 




1895.] NATTKAI. SCIENCES OF PHIJ^ADELPIIIA. '-69 



PEOTOPTYCHUS HATCHERI. A NEW EODENT FROM THE UINTA EOCENE. 



I'.Y \V. }i. ?( OTT. 



[Investigation aided by a {rraiit from tlie Elizabeth Thomitson Fund of the 

 • A. .\. A. S.] 



'ir. J. B. Hatcher, Curator of vertebrate paheoutology in the 

 Princeton Museum, wlio i.'^ at [)resent (April, 1895) collecting in 

 the Uinta beds, (upper Eocene) of Utah, has lately discovered a 

 snuill rodent-skull of a previou?ly unknown type, and recotrnizinir its 

 importance, has sent it in to me for examination and description. 

 The skull proves to be of unusual interest and brings to light some 

 very unex{>€cted facts, which I hasten to bring to the attention 

 of students of the rodents. 



77(^ Dentition. — Only the teeth of the upper jaw (fig. 8) are repre- 

 sented in the specimen, the mandilde having been lost. The dental 

 tV»rmula is: II CO PI M.'>. As the front end of the rostrum i.s broken 

 away, only a transverse section of the incisors is visible in the specimen 

 and here they are seen to l)e rather small and laterally compressed; 

 there is nothing to indicate that these teeth were sulcate. The jire- 

 molar, p4, is of only moderate size, not quite so large as ml. Owing 

 to its somewhat abraded condition, the pattern of this tooth is rather 

 difficult to make out and all that can be clearly seen is a narrow 

 invagination of enamel from the external ."ide, which extends acro.ss 

 al)out half the transverse width of the crown, and on the inner side 

 is an extremely shallow enamel indentation. The first molar a little 

 exceeds in size any of the other cheek-teeth, though there is not 

 much <liflerence between any of the .«erie8 in this respect. In it.s 

 present condition of wear, this tooth displays a deep invagination of 

 enamel from the outer side of the crown, and a very shallow one from 

 the inner side, which, however, is distinctly better marked than in 

 the [)remolar. The seconil molar is slightly smaller than the first, 

 but of siniiliar conformation. The third molar, perhaps in conse- 

 (jiicnce of the fact that it is less worn than the others, is (»f a some- 

 what diH'erent pattern. In addition to the enamel invagination from 

 the inner and outer sides, it ha.s two low transverse crests, with a 




270 



l'K<)<-KKI>IN(JS OK TUK ACAI>K.MY OK 



[1895. 



sluillow ilepiv-wiou in front of tl>e anterior one and Iteliind the |)os- 

 terior one. 'Pliese teetli are all very brachyodont. with transversely 

 Dval crowns, and form a sliirhtly curved series with the convexity 

 outward, so that those of the two sides converge at both ends and are 

 most widely separated in the middle. 



It is ditlicult to find among modern rodents any type of dentition 

 which altogether corresponds to the one here described. The trans- 

 verse crests visible on mo oi Protoj)t)/rlii(s (i\ud iloubtless in the unworn 

 state of the other teeth, also) have a certain resemblance to the teeth of 

 the squirrels and spermophiles, but the fundamental character of the 

 tooth-pattern is given by the enamel invaginations, which tend to 

 divide it into two prism.=. This arrangement is most like that found 

 in Pedrtcs, the Hdrnmiiiihr and Geomniihv. The resemblance of 

 the Uinta form to the John Day genera, Entoj)fijrlnis and P/enroll- 



Fie. 1. Protoplijrhus Hotcheri ; 

 .'Skull t'loiii left silk': natural 



I-'ifi- 2. ProtoplycliHs Ilalrhfri; 

 Skull from above: natural size. 



ens, especially to the latter which is brachyodont, is decidedly 

 marked. 



The Hhitll. — It will best serve the purposes of this description to 

 consider first the skull as a whole, and then the individual elements 

 which make it up. Its general as])ect .suggests various affinities : on 

 the one hand, it has very marked resemblances to the skull of I>i]>ii.% 

 esj^eciallv in the anterior portion, while the posterior portion strongly 

 recalls the corresponding region in Peror/natlins, ( 'ricefodlpiis, and even 

 J)ij>od(>my.i. The skull is quite depressed and elongate and broadens 

 less abruptly toward the hinder end than in those existing genera of 

 Diji'i'IlfJir and Ht'fproinjiidcn in which the mastoids are largely in- 

 flated. Seen from above, the outline of the skull has considerable 

 resemblance to that of Hifrromys, though with much more prominent 

 mastoid bulhe than in the latter. In front of the orbits the face is 

 fleeply constricted to form the rostrum, which, so far as it is pre- 

 served, is not unlike that of Heferomys in shape, but the proportions 




1895.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 271 



of the different bones which compose it resemble more the arran<re- 

 ment which obtains in Dipus. The rostrum is also les?; tapering 

 and acuminate than in the recent Ht^ft nunifida'. The transverse 

 width of the skull is greatest in the mastoid region, though tiiese 

 l)ones project but slightly beyond the line of the zygomatic arches 

 and thus the width is nearly uniform from the front of the orbits to 

 the occiput. In all of the existing Dipodldir the skull is widest across 

 the zygomatic arches. In Profojittirlm.'i the skull is long and narrow 

 as compared with that of Dipits, though not far removed irom the 

 proportions of Znpits. The interorbital constriction is very slight, 

 much as in Heteromys, and thus decidedly less than in Znjnis. 

 Aside from the inflated mastoids, the broadest part of the cranium 

 is across the parietals and behind the orbits. The hinder part of the 

 cranium displays very large, rounded and swollen mastoids, such as 

 occur in the recent Dij>odld(f' and Hetervmiiidiv, though their shape 

 and construction are more like what we find in the latter family than 

 in the former. The mastoids encroach more upon the roof of the 

 skull and the occipital plane than in Per<)<innthus or Cricetodipus, 

 andcjuite as much as in I)ij>us, though in a somewhat difl'erent way 

 and with a difl'erent ettect upon the surrounding cranial bones from 

 the latter. 



In spite of the great size which the mastoids have alrea<ly 

 attained, small, but distinct temporal fossje are preserved, such as 

 persist in Iletennni/s, but in no other member of that family. More of 

 the s<|iiamosal is retained on the walls of the cranium in tiie existing 

 hipodidii than in Profo/tti/rlniK, but not such distinctly marked 

 temporal foasa-. The consistency of the bones of the skull, their 

 ridges and angles are much as in IHjnis and have not that exces- 

 sively thin and papery appearance which characterizes /(f/y;//.s and the 

 recent If'trmmiiidir. There is no indication of a .sagittal cre^t. 

 Viewed in proHle, the highest point of the skull is behind the orbits, 

 at the slightly swollen and gently convex parietals, as is also true of 

 Zi/niii and I'froffiifitliu.i; from this point the upper contour descends 

 grailually iti front to the rostrum and behind to the occiput, though 

 the curvafuif of this surface is but slight. The inferior sur- 

 face of the < raiiiutii is rendered different in appearance from tliiit of 

 any of the Jfit> ronniidn by the larger size and more spherical forn) 

 of the tympanic bulhr, which have much the same shape as in 

 Dijmt, butthehulhe are not separated from the neighboring cranial 




l'K(>(Ki:iiIN(JS OK TIIK ACADlC.M V oK 



[1895. 



l)one!* hv such fissures as occur in the Iiitter and in I'rdifrK, as well m 

 in f>lpoHo)ini.% conforming more in this respect to the condition of 

 Z^tjniK. The large incisive foramina constitute another point, of 

 resemblance to Dipu.<. 



Taking up the structure of the skull more in detail, we Hnd thai 

 the rostrum is narrow, decidely more so than the interorhital space, 

 and (piite deep vertically, its diameter in this dimension exceeding 

 the transverse. The nasals are cousiderahly Itroader than in Heter- 

 onniH or Pernritifitlni.t and have more the relative width found in 

 DijtKS, hut they extend much farther hack than in any living genus 

 of either familv, reaching along their external borders to the mid- 

 dle of the ori)its, slightly behind the termination of the ascending 

 processes of the premaxillaries. In the />/y^o(//f/rr the nasals cease 

 in front of the orbits and they extend but little more backward in the 

 Heteromyiihi. The hinder ends of the nasals are deeply emarginated 

 to receive the long nasal processes of the frontals, which are far 

 more conspicuous than in either of the modern families named. 

 Posteriori v the nasals are slightly concave transversely; farther for- 

 wiiiii they become strongly convex in the same dii'ection and together 

 form a semicylinder. This anterior convexity is more pronounced 

 than in Dipns and it may indicate a tubular prolongation of the 

 rostrum in front of the incisors, such as occurs in the Heteromyida-. 

 The nasals are accompanied for nearly their entire length by ascend- 

 ing processes of the premaxillaries, which articulate suturally with 

 the frontals. On the top of the skull these processes are, as in the 

 DijmUda; very narrow strips, much narrower than in the Hetero- 

 myidie. Their extension backward is more prolonged than in either 

 familv, as they reach almost to the tniddle of the orbits. 



The frontals are short, shorter than in Zapus or Heteromys, except 

 in the median line, where the nasal processes add materially to their 

 length; they have, however, attained no such degree of shortening 

 as is found in Dljuis. The interorhital space has about the same 

 relative width as is found in Heteromy.i, but the supraorbital 

 margin has not the bead-like thickening which occurs in that 

 genus. Postorbital processes are entirely wanting. The parie- 

 tals are not altogether like those of any of the modern genera which 

 have been mentioned; they are longer than in Prrofiiiafhiis and have 

 not the nearly regular pentagonal shape characteristic of that genus; 

 thev are somewhat shorter than in Hfff^r(nii>/.i and have, as also in the 




1895.] 



NATCKAT. SCIENCES OF I'H ri,Al)KI,PH I A. 



273 



latter, a distinct ridge or angulation runninir along their external 

 nmririns, which form small temporal fossas more distinctly marked 

 than in any other member of the family. In I)lj>i(s and Pidcfr.^ the 

 parietals are very short and wide, while in Zajtus they retain much 

 the same proportions as occur in Protopti^chus, though they have not 

 the external angulation, nor the concave temporal fossie found in 

 the latter. In the fossil the parietals are slightly swollen and 

 gently convex in both directions, with a shallow <le])re?sion in the 

 median line. 



The interparietal is very large and of a somewhat different shape 

 from that of any of the recent genera of the two families. In the 

 HeteroinyuKje this hone is very wide and of varying shapes in the 

 different genera. Thus, it is elliptical in Peroguatlms, pentagonal in 

 CricetodipiLi, and in Heferomj/s broadly cordate. In the Dijtodn- 

 mijiiin' this bone has become very small and is longer than wide, a 

 condition due to the great encroachments made upon the cranial 

 walls l)y the enormously inflated mastoids. />//)(/.•* has a broad 



I-'i 



v.. 3. Protnplychus HaUhrri; Skull 

 Irotii Ix'luw; natural size. 



Fij;. 4. l'rol(}pty()iu<i Halchrf i; 

 .Skull, occii)ital surfarc; natural 

 size. 



shield-shaped interparietal, Pedete^t one which is very ?^horl ami wide 

 and of peculiar sha|)e, while in Zh/hik it is a wide ellipse. The inter- 

 parietal of Pr(>fo/)liirlni.i differs from that of all the genera name<l, 

 bi'ing very large and of nearly scjuarc outline, though the breadth 

 slightly exceeds the length; the latter <liameter is, however, much 

 greater relatively than in any of the recent genera, while the narrow- 

 ing is obviously due to the ex|)ansion of the mastoids. The exteriud 

 ridges of tlu^ parietals are continued over upon the borders of the 

 interparietal, which otherwise is nearly plane, but i>i tlin>^ inadi- 

 slii^ditly concave. 



The occipital surface is almo-l flat, except for the |irotubi raiicfs 

 formeil by the mastoids, and is ctuisiderably higher than widr, the 

 inflated m:islo:d l)ullje having greatly narrowc(| it. In general 




-74 rH(.(i:Ki)iNcjs ok imk acaukmv ok [1895. 



appi-arauco the occiput is (luitc likctluit of I'Iihi-oHchx ilij)/(tj)liii!<itK of 

 the John Day. (s»'e ("ope, Tertiary X'eitthrata, IM. LXIV, 

 fig. 9'" ), l)iit ill I lie hitter the mas-toids are not so imich enlarged and 

 the occiput is, con>«eiiuently, wider tlian liigli. Thi- supraoccipital 

 of Protoi)ti/clu(s most resenihles tliat of the Ih'l'nunijida-, it appears on 

 the top of the skull ouly as a very narrow strip and, so far as can he 

 judired from the specimen, it does not send out spurs wliich enihrace 

 the interparietal hetwceu them, such as are found in J'l'nx/iidtlins antl 

 ('riceto(lij)na. On the plane of the occiput the supraoccipital occu- 

 pies a little more space, but even here it is very narrow from ahove 

 downward, nearly the whole of this surface being formed by the large 

 exoccipitals. In I)ij»ux the spurs which enclose the interparietal are 

 very peculiarly shaped, for they are produced downward over the 

 mastoid bulhe and articulate with narrow processes given oH' from the 

 squaraosals. In Pedetes there are no such spurs from the supraocci- 

 pital and so far there is a resend)lance to the fossil, but tlie dis- 

 tinct angle made by the occipital j)lane with the top of the skull 

 in the latter is heteromyine ratlier than dipodine in character. 

 In the Uinta genus the foramen magnum is very large in proportion 

 and of subcircular shape, while the occipital condyles are exceed- 

 ingly small, widely separated from each other and so closely 

 applied to the great bulhe, that it is difficult to see how they 

 could conveniently articulate with the cotyles of the atlas. No 

 distinct paroccipital processes are observable. Such processes 

 are distinct in DIpiis and still more so in Pedetes, but in Zapiif, as 

 in the HeieromijkUr, they are exceedingly minute. The basioccipital 

 and basisphenoid are reduced to excessively narrow, slender rods, 

 which are more attenuated than in any of the Heferoiinjida', not even 

 excepting Dipodo))ui><. In JJijtus these two bones form together a 

 wedge-shaped piece, which narrows rapidly forward ; the basisphenoid 

 is thus as slender as in ProtojAyelnix, but the basioccipital is broader. 

 Much the same statement will apply to PenxjtHdInis. This difference 

 is due to the fact that in the fossil the largely inflated tympanic 

 bulhe are of a different shape, and in particular, have a greater 

 transverse diameter proportionately than have any of the modern 

 forms mentioned. 



The msistoids are very greatly inflated and form large portions of 

 the auditory bulhe, which are the most conspicuous and striking 

 features of the skull. The shaj)e of these structures has resemblance 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 275 



both to tlie Hrteroinyhke and the I>i/i<iiliiln. The relative size of 

 the mastoids is iiliout the saiiu- as iu I>ij>ii.-< and I'eihtis, luit they liave 

 a less exteii.sion vertically and a urt-ater one antero-posteriorly than 

 in those ijtMiera. In Zu/ms the mastoids are liut moderately inflated, 

 and iu ILffmnnis they are iu mneli the same condition, so as not to 

 form coiispicuons parts of the crania! walls. In Ptro'/inttliiis these 

 bones are much more swollen and conspicuous, but they form com- 

 paratively little of the top of the cranium, do not bnli:e out strongly 

 ■from the sides oftheskull and |)roiecl l»nt sliLditly behind the plane of 

 the occiput. In this jrenns the mastoid articulates extensively with 

 the parietal and lielps to give it its characteristic pentag<»nal sliape. 

 In ( 'rii-i find /HIS the uuistoids are still more swollen and project so 

 decidedly backward that the proper occipital surface appears like an 

 eniargination. In tlie Ifi/iiiiliiniiilinr the mastoid- are inllatetl to a 

 most extraordinary degree, reducing all the other cranial bones of 

 that regitui to mere stri|)s. In l'ioti>iihiclniii these bones are <lilated 

 nuich more than in either I'l ri)<iiiittlni.-< or Ci iriliidi/iKs, though not 

 approximating the enormous size which they attain in iJi/toiluiiii/.'^, 

 and form very conspicuous prominences, which project both 

 laterally and |)o.<teriorly. They do not, however, articulate with the 

 parietals, from which thev appear to be separated by the narrow 

 prolongations of the stpiainosals which form the temporal fossa. The 

 parietc)- mastoid articidation occurs in the modern lorins of Ixith the 

 f)!po<liilii and the Hi liriHiii/iiln , even in those genera in which the 

 mjusloid is oulv moderately inllatctl. The construction of the mas- 

 toid bulla- in the fossil has most resemblance to that of the lliiim- 

 inifldii:. In l)i/iii'< and J'r<hfrs this structure is high vertically, not 

 much elon^ate<l antero-posteriorly and not so divided into chambers 

 that the tlivision is charly visible from the outer side. In ihe lossil, 

 as in Crirtli)ilijiii.-<, the mastoid bulla is laterally compressed and 

 more extended antero-po.^teriorlv than laterally; it is divided by 

 partial >epla into chandHTS, twoot' which are phiiidy slmun, even 

 exteruallv, being bounded by deep grooves. ()i ihesetwo chandteif, 

 the hinder one is short, high and narrow an<i lies behind the audi- 

 tory meatus, while the anterior one is longer, lower and broader and 

 lie."* alM)v«' the auditory meatus, the two divisions meeting at nearly a 

 right angle. In />//»o( /<;/////.•< the arrangement iu >imiliar. l>i;t the 

 anterior <-haiid)er i.-^ much more strongly inllale<l and, in |iarlienlar. 

 is very much wider. 




27fi PRt>CERI»IN(JS OK TIIK ACADKMY OK [1H95. 



Tlie tvnipanic portion ol' tlic luidiloi-v hiilln is inon; swollen and 

 of a (litfV'rent sliapf iVoni tliat !>!' anv ot" tiu; ivrent Ih Ifnuniiiihr nud 

 more rosenihles lliat oi" hijuix. It is rclalivfly very lar^t; and of" 

 lioniisplierical tbrni, with nearly e»pial transverse, antero- posterior 

 uiul vertieal diameters, and diH'ers markedly from tlie cdonLMte, 

 somewhat de|)res.se<l and tiask-like form characteristic of the pocket- 

 mice, rite front ends of the two hulUe are (|nite near together, litit 

 thev have not the narrow prolonirations, correspondinjf to the mck of 

 the Hask, which are foinid net only in the pocket-mice. Itnt also in ' 

 the lower Miocene irenns Eiiioiifiichn.<, which I rej^ard as one of the 

 torernnners of the ( Irttnniiihv. The tympanies are in close apposi- 

 tion to the hasi-occipital and hasi-spheuoid, as in Zujhis and /Vro- 

 fjiKilhiix, not isolated l)v the fissnres which occnr in l>ljins and Pl/io- 

 (loiiu/.i. The o|)enin<: of the auditory meatus is nearly circular and 

 forms even less of a tuhe than in Zapii.t or I'mnjiiitlhn.^. 



The crowdinfi; and displacement of the cranial hones which result 

 from the great development of the mastoid Ituihe has already in 

 I'rofopfiichus attained a remarkalile detrree, more advanced than in 

 several of the existinj^ <^eiiera. Compared with the skull of f>i/)iis, 

 in the fossil we Knd that the elements which lie in front of the mas- 

 toid are more reduced. This is due to the much greater relative size 

 of the hrain in the modern genus, which has broadened the frontals and 

 parietals in a very striking way, and ))rol)al)ly even the greater 

 width of the hasi-occipital is due to the sauK^ I'actor. The Ht'tem- 

 miildii exhiiiit many difierences among themselves in this respect, the 

 displacen)ent being extreme in the DijxKlonn/iiKr and very moderate 

 in the Hetevomy'nio: Having reference to this feature only, l'n>- 

 fo/tti/cliiis stan<ls midway between the two sections of the family. 



The squamosal is jtushed almost entirely into the orbit, but, as has 

 already been mentioned, it appears to send out a process between the 

 parietal and the mastoid, which articulates with the inter|)arietal. The 

 sutures in this region are, however, .so far obliterated as to render 

 this somewhat uncertain, but, at all events, there is at this point a 

 narrow, perfectly di.stin(;t and slightly concave teni|)oral fossa, such 

 as exists- in H/lrronnfs and in no other mend)er of either of the 

 modern families. In both the hi/iodi'ht and the Jlcferoiiiiiidir a long 

 spur of the s<piamosal extt;nds back over the au<litory meatus, along 

 the line of suture between the mastoifl an<l the tympanic. In the 

 fossil this spur is not shown, but as this region has suffered slightly 




1895.] 



NATURAI. SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



troiii weathering, it may have been present originally. It' so. it nuiel 

 have been exceedin^rlv fine and thread-like, as it is in I)ipii<li>miis. 

 Tiiere is no postorhital ridi^e or plate, snch as is found in I>ipit,<, 

 tlioujrh iii>t in Z'tjtns. The zygomatic process is longer and iu every 

 way l)etter ilevelope<l than in tlie Ifffrriiiiniiihi , hnt it does not pro- 

 ject out so tar from the sides of the skull iis iu I>ij)iis itr I't'drics, hut 

 has about the same <legree of proportionate development as iu 

 Znpus. It is separated bv a considerable interval i'roni the tvni- 

 panic. 



Thejugal has been largely weathered away from the specimen, 

 but the anterior portion remains, as well as the imprint of the entire 

 bone on the matrix fdling the orl>it of the left side, which allows its 

 shape and connections to be determined with a fair degree of ac- 

 curacy. The horizontal portion is longer than in the recent genera 

 of IHpittllilii or I[elfriitniii'hi, and though very thin and compressed, 

 forming a vertical |)late, it is stouter than in any of the modern forms, 

 except I'lilrfex. The ascending portion is decitledly broader and is 

 continued up along tiie anterior edge of the orbit ami forms a suture 

 with the lachrymal, as in the recent jumpiiig-mice. The form of this 

 process is most like that of Znpiis, among the existing genera; it is 

 a wide |>late, with recurved external border, convex externally and 

 concave internally, somewhat us in /ii/iii.<, ihoiigh owing to the 

 smaller si/e of the infraorbital foramen, it is less attenuated. In 

 hijni.-< the edge of the plate is not recurved, but projects directly out- 

 ward and hel|>s to give the extraordinary lutadlii which the face has 

 at this |H»int — the widest part of the skull. flie anterior portion of 

 till- /.ygomati*' arch is at a lower level than in the recent jmnping- 

 mi<-e an<l here the arch is less horizontal ; nor lias it the liecided 

 downward curvature foiuid in Jfi/>ii.-<; in l'n»nt the arch is not so 

 widely separated from the alveolar p<»rtioii of the maxillary as in the 

 recent g(Miera. jhe /.vgomatic process of the maxiliarv is much like 

 that of Z'ljHiA. The infraorbital foramen is a larg«- aperlur*' p»r- 

 loraling the zygomatie proces,s ; in siia^M; it is high, narrow and some- 

 what pyriforni, resendding that of the tvpieal Muriiltv, except that 

 its fHisition is r«vei>ed, l>eing narrower above than l>elow. There is 

 no separate canal, *>r even no|<h. for the nerve, such as is (bund in 

 the recent jumping-mice. 'I'he zygonuilic process arises a little in 

 advance of the premolar, :us it does al.>*o in /<>/<»/.•<; in Pi/>i'.- it is 

 .-shifted .somewhat farther forward, while iu I'cdrli.* it extends so far 




-"S l'K<>C"KKI)IN(JS <»K IIIK ACAUKMY <>l' [1895. 



anteriorly tliat the JisceiidiiiL' process ot" the jiiiral appears to rise out 

 ot" the iniil(ih> ot' the 7.y<;omatii' arch. The /.yfjomalic proce)*9 of the 

 inaxiUary is thus merely a sletuU'r traine-work ciich»siiij; tlie iiifra- 

 orltital tbraiiu'ii and strenjrthene*! on the outer side hy the iuscendini^ 

 process of tlie juijal. This is (piite dilierent from the perforated 

 phite of the true mice and still more from the imperforate plate of 

 the Htteromiii(Uv and (leitmiiiihr. The lachrymal is a very small 

 lv)ne, which is placed at the autero-sufx'rior anj^lc of the orliit and 

 articulates with the frontal and the jiii^al. 



The prema.xillaries are large and (juite heavy hones, very narrow, 

 hut of considcrahle vertical extent : their palatal surface is re<Uiced 

 to two narrow rods, one on each side of the very large incisive 

 foramina. The maxillo-premaxillary suture is just in a<lvance of the 

 zvgomatic process, as is also the case in DijuiK and ZaptiK, ami thus 

 the sid&s of the rostrum are formed almost entin-ly l>y the [)remaxil- 

 l:c. The incisive foramina are very large, though the apparent size 

 is increased hy the loss of the premaxillary s|)ines; they fleeply 

 ejnarginate the palatal processes of the maxillaries and extend hack 

 as far as ml. The John Day genus J\ir!riiliix and several of the 

 recent iJi/xxlidd', such as Zfi/ixs, Dipiif), A/a<(a>/(i, etc., have a similar 

 conformation of the incisive foramina, hut in the latter they do not 

 cut so deeply into the maxillaries. This ap|)ears to lie ihie to the 

 growth of the part of the maxillaries in front of the premolar whicli 

 accompanies the forward shifting of the zygomatic; process. In I'cdi-frs, 

 in which this shifting has attained its maxinnim, tlic fjraniina have 

 hecome quite small. 



The maxillaries form singularly little of the facial region. The 

 alveolar portion is low, hut <juite dense and heavv and forms 

 posteriorly a hroad, shelf-like Hoor of the orbit, which is much large)- 

 and heavier than in the recent genera. The hony palate is shoit 

 from hefore backward, «piite hroad and gently arched from side to 

 side. The limits of the palatine hones cannot he made out in the 

 specimen. The posterior nares have nnicli the same shape and 

 position as in Znpns, being broad and extending forward to the 

 miiidle of in'-). The pterygoids abut against the tympanies and 

 there are qnit« large pterygoid foss:c. 



The cranial foramina are not satisfactorily dis|)layed in the S|)eci- 

 men. A large sphenoiil lissure is visible in the orbit, but the 

 alisphenoid caual, if originally present, has been destroyed. 




189o. ] xATi'HAr, srrKxc'Rs of piiir.AnEi.piiiA. -"•• 



The new ireniis aiul species may ho (lehiied as ti>Ih)\vs: 



PROTOPTYCHUS. 

 Gen. nov. p ' , m L, cheek-teeth l)racliyodoiit, in tlie worn 

 condition with deep enamel invairination from onter side and 

 shallow ilepression on inner side of crown. Infraurliital fnranien 

 larire, pyrilorm, perfuratinj^^ /.y<romatic process of niaxiliarv. .Iniial 

 articiilatintr with lachrymal (?). Mastoids nuich intlated. in detrree 

 iiitennediate lietween those of Crlci fn)}lpi(.'< and /^y/c/'i/;/ »/••<;. I vni- 

 panics mnch inHated and hemispherical. Interparietal iieariv srpiare. 

 Incisive foramina virv lartre. 



P. Hatcheri n. sp. 



lienirth of skull ahoiit as in I'ii-ikHjiks Ordi. Internal enamel 

 inv!i<i:ination ol' p ' much le.<s marked than in '" jrrindin<^ teeth 

 of nearly equal si/e, ni ' sli<rhlly larirer than the others. Nasals 

 wide. Occiput higher than wide. 



This s|)ecies i.s dedicated to it.s discoverer, Mr. .1. 15. Hatcher, 

 who.<e lon<jj and arduous lahors in hehall' of paheontologv have 

 Keen crowned with such brilliant .succe.s.s. 



Mrii><iiri'meiU><. 



M M. M.M. 



I.ent^th of skull from inion HeiKht ol ro-imm al liase .(Klii 



to /vir. proc. mC max. (i.<rJ7 I iiler|i;ni('t;il, IciiKlli .<'<'T 



iircadth of skull at mas- I nterparietal, vs jdtii .(Kl!l 



toids .01:0 ()«-.ipuI, height .(Ml<t,i 



l;t<;i(|ili of skid! aiTos-i Oi-.ipiii, u idth .(M»S 



/.yK<»ni.itic arches .olTi Molar - |>reniolar Heries, 



I'.readth ol' skull :tt inter- lenuth .<K).S 



orl.jlal spjicc (tin .Molar scries, Icuutli .(M»,V) 



Width of rostrum al l.asc .007 



'I'm; ,\ II iM iii> <ii- l'it<»ritiTV( IMS. 



It has Ix-en remark<-d that fossils do not aid inalcriallv in clcariuLT 

 awav morpliidoL'ical ditliculties. I»<cause they raise as manv proMenis 

 as they solve. Such a stricture, while not justified in the case of a 

 nearly corn|»lete phyloirenetii- .«»eries, is only loo applicalile to isolated 

 jjenera, such a." Elnlln riinn, or in the case ot a few scattered and 

 widely s<'parated links in a plivh-tic chain. To the latter class, un- 

 fortiMiatelv /'rnto/ili/rlnin lielouL'-' and there is much altoni it that is 

 exln-melv pii/zliiiL'. It is. in the first place, altoi^retln-r unexpected 

 to find that the ciirioiH :iud hi^ddv s|M'ciali/ed fiimilv of the /Hjniiliifu 

 should extend l)a«'k with so litth- <'han;i;<' to the upper lloceiie. This 




280 PUOCREIUNOS OF TIIK APADKMY OK [ISO;). 



is, liowevor, oiilv nnothcr iiistnncc (if (lio coiitimiify ol" llic Ainrricaii 

 roilciil f'iuina. wliicli, scanty ns it is. imrsiics u imicli nion- iinlnnlvcn 

 course than tiial dI" Kiin)|u'. Slill more siir|irisinix is it to iiml tliat 

 one ol" the peculiarities \vlii<'li esuecially mark this family, namely, 

 the inllation of the tem|)(niil ret^ion and the concomitant rechiction of 

 the adjoinini^ cranial hones, have already attained such an advanced 

 deirree. Finally, to luUl to the confusion, we oliserve that with 

 feature.s characteristic of the Pl/ttxildir are condyined certain struc- 

 tures resend)ling thi>se ot the lli li inintiidii , such as the dentition and 

 the shape nn<l divisions of the mastoitl hulhr, while the infraorliital 

 foramen is like that of the Mur'nhv. 



That I'rofnptiirhiis is an ancestral form of the Dijinditln' seems 

 ahundantly clear. The lonj^', narrow and incapacious cranium, 

 thonudi in strong,' contrast with that of f>l/)iis, is not very unlike the 

 cranium ol" Znpus. aiul tiiese difference's are just what the analo^'y 

 of other mammalian groups would lead us to expect. The (character 

 of the infraorhital foramen oHi-rs no diffic\dty to this view, for its 

 great size in the modern jnmpiuLr-mice cannot he a primitive feature 

 and the condition found in I'mhtptijchiiK is a startinj^ point 

 from which the modern character of the family could easily he 

 derived. The teeth are, it is true, quite tlitlerent from tliose of any 

 of the recent geneia, and yet the amount and kind of chan<ie neces- 

 sary to produce the latter are not greater than have demonstrahly 

 occurred in many other families. Among the existing jumping- 

 niice there is great diversity in the structure of the molars, whi(;h it 

 is difficult to reduce to any connnon j)lan. 



As yet no memher of the family has heen detected in the White 

 River formation, hut in the succeeding John Day heds the line is 

 carried forward hy l*iiciciihit(. This genus cannot well he directly 

 ance.stral to any of the recent genera, hecause it has lost all the 

 premolars; hut in all other respects, in which its structure is known, 

 it stands in an intermediate position hetweeii J'rol<>j>fiirliiis and 

 />i/>iis. The molar pattern is already very similar to that of J>i/iiis; 

 the infraorhital foramen has hecome very large and its lower portion 

 forms a distinct notch for {\w passage f)f the nerve. The interorhital 

 constriction is niu(;h deeper than in hi/ni.t, hut the cranium has 

 c«tmmenced to widen much more markedly than in Protdjih/i-lnis. 

 The incisive foramina and posterior nares remain very much as in 




l'^9'^-] NATl'RAT, SCIENCKS OF PHILAnFI.PIII A. -^1 



the I iiita (jenus. The posterior part of tlie ciaiiiuni in the only 

 known skull is so riuu-li injured that the chararter of the uiastoiils 

 cannot lie made out, tlKUiirh they couhl not have heen as larjre as in 

 Pnito/ifi/chns, hut the tympanies are seen to form iar^^e, hemis|)lK'ri- 

 f-al hulhr, with very lartre meatal o|)eninj^s, which do not form tubes. 

 The lateral view of the skull hears eonsideralile resemhlance to 

 that of XiiiliiiiKi, as an ancestor of which I'driinhis is retrarded hv 

 ( ope. 



If llie view as to the systematic position of /'rolo/tliiclnis which is 

 here advocated he correct, it follows that the /fijiotlida were separ- 

 ated from the true mice at a very early period. an<l that they form 

 a very distinct line. It otlei's, however, no ohjection to the inclusion 

 of the jumpiuLr-mice aminiir the Mvomorpha, tor the special peculi- 

 arities of the infraorbital canal in the former are shown t<» he deriva- 

 tive from the murine ty|>e. 1 he articulation of the juiral with the 

 lachrymal is prohahly a primitive feature, which the hipiiiliilii have 

 reiaiiie<l: this articulation is not oidy usual amon<:f the mannnals 

 irenerally. hut is also fouii<l in the earliest rodents, such as Paraviys. 

 .Viiuther CMiiclusion which follows from the reference oi' Profojifi/cluis 

 to the ancestors of the Pi/iodlihr is in re^^'anl to the position whii-li 

 ^huuld he assijrued to Zn/tns. This}fenu8dis|)la\ s I he skull character- 

 istics of the hijindiiln in a much less extreme dcL'^ree than the other 

 e.xistiuL' memlu-rs of the familv. This is especiallv true oi'the audi- 

 tory hidla. the mastoid pitrlinn of which is verv small and hut little 

 inllated. If J'rnfojiliirliiis he really ancestral to the lH/nxlidn, then 

 Z^i/ni.^ either must have siillered a dcLTradation and reduction of the 

 mastoid cdement.s, or it is not related to the iumpiuLr-mice al all. 

 The hrsl alternative is nnich the more pmhahle one. This mode 

 of development, namelv, the advance of a certain structure up to a 

 maximum, followed hv a declitie in that structure, is nol :ni iiiici>rii 

 mou occurrenc*-, and is so familiar that it would he supertliious to 

 cite examples here. Such an alternation in the develo|»ment of one 

 or more parts is e()ui(i;itihle with the cnulinualU advaiicimr dilii-nn 

 tiatiun of the oriranism as a whole. If this conclusion he well 

 tounded, then Z'//(//« is not, in anv sense, a connect in^r link helween 

 ihe Miiridii and the /hi>i,did<i, hul asimplilied uieniher ot the lat- 

 ter. We hiive, as yet, no meaii> of determining how far tin- fonl- 

 ■"troctiire of /iijui.-' i-etains it- prindtive characters, hut judirio'/ from 

 the analo;rv of other ;rroup:-. it i.- prohahle that the loot is primitive 




-'*^- IM<orEKniNOS OK TIIK AOAI>KMY <)K [1895. 



rather tlian rotn>ixr!i<l<'. In vory many. |htIi:i|>s tlic inaioiiiv of 

 cases, tlu' skull is m()ilerni/.t><l earlier than llie leet. 



A verv uiiicli more dilfieiilt |iri)l)lem is (n (leleniiiiic wluit 

 relation, it' aiiv, exists between I'lotuplijcliiis and the llilcroiiniUlir. 

 In most sehemes of classilieation this i'amily and the ( li'i>i\iyU}(r are 

 referred to the Myom()r|)ha. hnt several authorities deny the pro- 

 priety of such a reference. Winiie.'in particular, rejects the (livision 

 of the simplicidentate rodents into three sections, and founds his 

 arraiiijement of the order princijially upon the characters of the ma.'«- 

 ticatory muscles and upon the mo(litications of the skull which 

 accompany these characters. ( )n account of the anterior position ol 

 the infraorhital foramen and the imperforate zygomatic process of the 

 maxillary, the "Sdcnnniiilir"' (which include hoth families) are 

 l)rou<,dit into relation with the heavers, marmots and scpiirrels. The 

 ohvious objection to this method of classification is that it ignores the 

 possibility of the iiuh'pendent accjuisition of similiar structures in 

 widelv separated series, through convergent or parallel development, 

 proces.ses, the reality arid fre(piency of which are not open to question. 

 All available evidence goes to show that in the primitive rodent type 

 the zvgomatit; |)roce.ss of the maxillary was perforated by a large 

 opening, and that the jtigal extended up along the anterior edge of 

 the orbit to the hudirymal. There is nothing impossible in the sug- 

 ge^stion that the condition of these parts found in the (ifinuyhliv ami 

 HHeroviiilihr may have been derived from some such arrangement 

 as that which occurs in Priii<)ptiiclni.<. In the latter the dentition and 

 the structure of the cranium also suggest a relationship with the 

 HHennnijhhi . It i.s, however, not at all probable that the Uiuta 

 genus is directly ancestral to any of the latter family, l)ecause the 

 condition of the incisive foramina is so totally different. Until the 

 connecting links are rec'overed, it will not be possible to decide 

 whether the suggestive resemblances between /'rofo/ityclnis and the 

 pocket-mice are due to any actual relationship, or are merely 

 instances of convergence. 



As a contributif)n to this tpiestion, it may be of use to consider the 

 relationship between the (ifdiiii/iilir and the Hftmnnjiiihr. In con- 

 trasting these two families, C'oues" has ennujcrated tht- I'olluwing points 



' ll'hiffc. If. I{i»iiK<Mirs fossilc.H et vivants do La^oii Saiifa, Minas Geraes, 

 Bn'sil. E Mnseo Linidii. I. C<ipfiilia{{fii, 1888. 



'' Cuui'<:. E. and J. A. Alli-n, Monographs of Nortli Ainciiiaii Jvodciits. 

 U. S. fieolog. .Survey of tlie 'IV-rritorics, Vol. XI, i>|>. 4iW-:i. 




1895.] XATrRAI- SCIENCES OF PiriF.AnRI.IMlIA. 2So 



of rliH'tM'f'iKv hetwoeii them. ( ertaiii of" his categfories are liere omitted, 

 as not hearing upon the points to he (li.sc'usseii and some verhal clianLres 

 liave l)een made to render the uomeuclature consisteut with that used 

 ill thehody of this paprr. , 



GEOMYIDJE. I HETEROMYID^. 



( t-.x ( I. i/ilrp i/u/js. ) 



I Skull massive, aiiK'ilar, in 1 Skull delirate, w ith rounded 



m-nt-ral of an ar\ i<-olinf sn- <>tl antrli-s and sliuhl liducs, 



perlicies. if any. 



•J I ntcrorl)ilal sjiace narrower li. I nli-rorliiial sjiare niurli 



than lustrum. wider than ro.-trum. 



:> Skull widest across /.ygoiuutii" ;'>. Skull wi<lest across mastoids. 



arelies. 



\. Palate si.. pinfjstronglj' down- 4. Palate nearly horizontal, lit- 



ward, tar lielow level of /.ygo- tie, if any, helow level of 



niata zygomata. 



Nasals not prodiieed heyond .">. Na.s;ils prudueed heyoiid in- 



in<'is(>rs, rostrum liroad, eisors, rostrum compressed, 



lilunt, parallel sided. taperiny, acute. 



<i. Frontals comiirissed. li. Kronlals very liroad. 



7. I'arietalrH compresseil, irregu- 7. I'arietals hroad, triangular or 



larly liiaar. remote Inuu , pentagonal, coming to edge 



• trhits. oforhits. 



s. Sipiamosal nxiling most of H. S<piamosals uiostly or wlmlly 



cerehral cavity, from roof of restriited to oi hits; mastoids 



w hieh mastoids are e.\- rooting nnich of eciehial 



<lnded. <"avity. 



'.». .Auditory meatus contracted, !». Meatus intlaled, vestiliular. 



tuhular. 



in. Tymiiaidc hidlic wiilely dis- Id. 'rvmpainc> approximated or 



eretc. in contact at apices. 



II Su|>raoi'eipital hroad, forming II. .Suprao<'cipital contracted, 



most of occipitui plane, hut scarcely or not etilering occi- 



iiot mounting on top of pital phiiie, hut mounting 



•^kull. to top of sktdl to there ein- 



hrace interparietal hetween 

 its forks. 



1l! Molar- loot Ichh. PJ. .\h>lars rooted (except in 



/H/iinliinii/iiiii I. 



\'>. Large, erect, fah-ate <'oronoid, l;;. Small, sloping, |irickle-sha|icil 

 o\ CI toppiiiL' eoiidyle. eol<inoid, hclow condyle. 



II. Lower Jaw l.irire .and stiont; II. Lower Jaw small ami weak. 



I>. I'ore-limhs hi«hl.\ fossorial: li. 1 1 ind-limhs .s.iltatorial. l-oie- 

 claw .- mii.h enlarK<d. litlcd daws not enlarucd or s|ie- 



foidiL'giim. cially fossorial. 



hi. I'lyis and cars minute. hi. Kyes and ears lar>;c. 



17. Hahils completcl\ siilit* r- 17. I lahits e\pos«'d. 

 laneaii. 



riic two families agree in the following re»|)ects»: ( 1 i The mnsloids 

 are much iidlated (except in Ilrftnuniix) and iwciipv nnu'li of the 

 sU|Hrior or occipital Hurface.'* ol the skull, or hoth. ( 'J ) The infra- 




-•*^4 PHOTKEniNOS OK TlIK ACA1>I'MV OK ("1805. 



orbital torninon is small ami pci I'oratt's tlic innxillnrv I'ar in front of 

 the /.vLTomatic process, wliirli is i'X|ianil('(l ami iiii|K'rforal»', mucli as 

 ill tli(> Sciiiroiiiorphs. (.">) The liiiitltM- cml of tlic incisor makes a 

 protuheranee on tlie mamliMe Uelow the condyle. (4) Tliere are 

 larire fur-lined clu'ek-ponclies. opening externallv. 



That the (irininiiiln nwtl the Ihtrroimiiihr are closelv related to 

 one another is admitted hy all who have studied them, almost the 

 onlv dilference of opinion on the snhject heinir HS to whether they 

 slionld lie Lirouped in one familv or in two. .Inst wherein this 

 relationshi|) consists is another and le.'^s simple (piestion and it may 

 he answered in one of three wavs: ( 1 ) The (ifoiiiij'uliv have 

 descended from the lli'tcnnnij'nlir \ or (2) the latter have descended 

 from the former; or (o) hoth should he <lerived from a common 

 ancestor which was not sntticiently different iated to he properly 

 referre<l to either familv. Improlialile as it mav appear, the evi- 

 dence distinctly favors the lirsl of these three alternatives. To 

 regard the manifohl re.><end)lances henveen the two jr roups as dne to 

 paralleli-m i>r <'onverirence is !i mere assumption which is without 

 anv evidence to sustain it. The belief that the (trannilihr have 

 descende<l from the Hrfrr(»inii(hr involves the inference that the roni- 

 parativelv small si/e of the mastoid in the former is the result of 

 reductii>n from a more exaLTjferated development. The John Day 

 genera Eiifoj'fji'-hiis and Pleurolicnn, which differ from each other 



Fig. 5. Plenrolicux diploptiynuir; craiiiiim. Fig. (i. Pli'uroli< us diplophj/sus; 

 from above: natural size. From Cope. ofeiitut. from behind: natural 



size. From Cojx!. 



only in the fact that the latter has rooted and the former rootless 

 molars, throw nnich light on this question. In skull structure they 

 are so nearly intermediate between the two families, that the 

 reference of them to either .seems .«oniewhat arbitrary, though, on 

 the whole, they incline distinctly to the Gtomykh; as is shown in the 

 following points of resemblance: (\) The interorbital space is 

 narrower than the rostrum; (2) the palate is sloping and below the 

 level of the zygomatic arches; (o ) the nasals are not produced 




1S95.] NATCRAL SCIENCES OK IMI F r.ADEI-PIIIA. 285 



heyoiul the incisors and the rostrum is hroad, hlunt and parallel- 

 ^ided; (4) the troutals are very narrow; (5) the parietals are nar- 

 row, linear and do not extend to the orbits: (ti) the supraoccipital 

 does not extend upon the top of the skull; (7) the lower jaw is large 

 and strong; (>*) the skull is massive and angular, with well detincd 

 ridges and in some species with a sagittal crest. On the other hand, 

 the resemhlances to the Hiteromj/idir are confined to the temporal and 

 occipital region*. (1 ) The greatest width ot" the skull is acros.s the 

 mastoids; l'2) the auditory meatus is inflated and in some species 

 vestiliular; ( .'> ) the tympanies form large hulheand have the anterior 

 tlask-like prolongatitjn found in n)ost of the recent Hi frronniidir, hut 

 their apices are more widely separated; (4) the mastoids are largely 

 inflated and appear on the top of the skull, hut roof in less of the 

 eranial cavity than in most of the recent genera; (^) the occiput is 

 almiist sijuare ami much narrowtid I»v the encroachment of the 

 niasliiiils. The shape and position of the infraori)it:d and incisive 

 foramina and the proluherance on the mandiliie formed l»y the end 

 of the incisor are as in the moflern inemhers of liolh families. The 

 eoronoid pnx'ess of the mandiliie is intermediate in character, heing 

 larger and hi^dier than in the recent lli liinnniiiln , smaller and 

 lower than in tlie (I'lDini/iihi . A difference from Imth is in the .-hape 

 of the mandiliular angle, which is larire, falcifoiin and hut little 

 everted. The limh-houj's, so far asthev are known, resemlile those of 

 77(«HJo//j//.'<, except for the presence ot the third trochanter on the femur. 

 These .lohii Dav genera are (piite iuexplicalde except upon the 

 hypothesis that they are anceslnd to the (imiiniiilii ; to regard tliem 

 as an otIslxM)! (»f the ^fV'0//»///</</ which havit in some respe<ts jiaialleled 

 the Hrli iiiiinilihr is a purely gratuitous assumption unsupported lt\ 

 any evidence. The exisliiiL' ( I'uinii'ulii are all e.vclusivejy sulilei- 

 ranean mid fossorial in tlu-ir haliits. with \i-r\ suiall eves and ears, 

 and in them any extrenir delicacy of hearing would he out o|' 

 place. i'"iirthcr, the iiiMaled mastoids of the existing pocket-gophers 

 are intelligihle iiioultIi as a cliaiacicr acipiired under ilitiereiil lir 

 ciim^lances of liii- and retained now in a reduce<i deirree, while it 

 is ditlicult to see how such a character should i-ver he acipiired hy 

 liiirrowini.' animals. .Xnoiher iaci |H)iiitiii</ to the same coticliisinii 

 is lliat, as .M.rriam lia.s shown in hi- ailniiralde monograph. lli< 



' Mtrii.iiii. (' II. Moniiuniiiliii K'l vixiuii <it° tin- r<.< k< I (h<|>Ii) is ■ ic I .s 

 l>f|i'| of .\Krii-iilliin-. .S'urtli .ViiiiTiciiii h'liiitiii, .No. «. W'liNliiiivtoti, lMt.">. 




28(5 rKot'ivKniNos ok 'piik acakkmy oi" [IS^r). 



inastdid lnill:»' arc tilleil witli <'an('cll()iis l)()ii<\ whidi tlierr is rea- 

 son to Ix'lit've is a siirn ol" (Icirciu'racy. Similar ri'Miictioiis ol' tlic 

 tviiipanic IhiIIm' are not inl"rf<|ii»'nl. To irivc l»nt one. cxaniplc oiil 

 ot inanv, in till' rcct-nt peccaries the tympanies ("orni small l>nll;i' iilleil 

 with cancellous hone, while in the White l\iver ancestor til tlie 

 <;ronp, I'nrlm rns, the Imilir are hollow anil larLicly inllated. it 

 is altojr^'lher nnlikelv, on the other hand, that l''iil<>/>liirliiis ami 

 l'/'iiri)licii!i can he ancestral to the IliUrnnniiihi, hecanse, in the 

 first place, the sknil and skeleton are loo liir ad\ance<l mi the line 

 ol" the pocket-ptphers and indicate thai the hnrrowini: hahil had 

 already heeii more or less pert'ectlv actpiired. and, in the second 

 place, hecanse in the imperfectly known White River j^enera (liiin- 

 in>lii)lfhits and Ifr/iscininis we seem to lind distinctly marked tore- 

 runners of the pocket- mice. 



suisiM \i:v. 



(T ) l^rnhijifiiclnix, a now rodent from the Uinta Eocene, is an nnex- 

 pectedlv modernized form, which has already ac(piired very larfre 

 niJistoid liMlhe, ;i rostrum, incisive t'oraminn ami posterior nares 

 LTeatIv resemiilint: those of the iumpinij:-mice, and, :is in that 

 family, the articulation of the ju<;al with the lachrymal is retained. 

 The iidVaorliilal toiameii is ol' the murine type. The dentition and 

 the shape and construction of the mastoi<l and surrounding |iarts 

 ()f the cranium most resendde those of the Hrftirmniiihr. 



(2) The ijeiius is prohalily to he reirardeil as the ancestral type 

 of the I>l/>i)<liil<t and indicates an American origin for this family, 

 heing much more ancient than any known representative of the 

 }Xr()U|) in the Old World, which it appears to have reached hy a 

 ef)niparativelv late migration. l'(irlrii/ii.-< of the John T)ay hods is a 

 .somewhat aherrant nundier of the same line. 



CSi It is not improhahle that the /A /r/-o»*///(/(r wei-e derived from 

 some form related to l'r»t<>}>tiifliii.-<, though not from that genus itself. 



(4) The (tiiDiniithr are des<'ended i'roiu early fonns which may 

 hesi lie referred to the ll/lrroiiiimhr and in which the tym])anics 

 and the mastoifis were already greatly inflated. The assumption of 

 suhterranean hahits of lifV- hrought al»out a reduction in this region 

 of the skull and led to the acquisition of the many peculiarities 

 which characterize the recent poeket-go|»hers. Plfmolinix and 

 /•Jiilojtfiirhiis represent stages in this change and are more or less 

 directly ancestral to the juodern (leimni'Hhr. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OK PHILADELPHIA. 287 



THE JELLY-LIKE SECRETION OF THE FRUIT OF PELTANDRA 

 UNDULATA KaW 



i;V IDA A. KKI.LKK. 



Hiiviii;^ some time ago (leteriniiiftl the origin of the thick coating 

 of jelly investing the younger parts of Branenui peltntiu PiMsh,' I 

 \va.s curious to seek the cause of a similiar .-^ecretiou found in the 

 fruit *A' Pr/(iitidnt ninhilntii Raf , a plant widely separateil IVum tlic 

 tornier s-o far as its natural relationship is concerned. 



The stage of development which first attracted my attentinn to 

 the voluminous secretion i»f this plant is rej>resented in fig. 1, IM. 

 XII. where n, h, and r show three different views of the same [tlantlet. 

 .\l)<>ve may he seen the first leaf, /, thick, green and cotyledon-like. 

 Within this, and partly protruding heyoiid it, the second leaf, /. b. 

 riie pftrtion circumscrihed hy a rather wavy outline, _/. is the jelly- 

 like mas.s in fpiestion. Roots are also heginning to emerge, as indi- 

 cated l)V (•. 



fhe (piestion naturally aro.se, from what [xirtion of the fruit does 

 the jelly origiinite":' Is it produced from special glandular organs as 

 ill the ca.se of lini^niot jn/hiln I'ursh, or is it the n-sult of a meta- 

 morphosis of certain cells into this peculiar gelatinous nia.-<s without 

 tile intervention of glands? Before |>roceeding to answer these 

 ipic.xtions I will hriefiy outline the anatomy of (he fruit of this 

 plant. The fruit of the nieiiiliers of the A raee;e family i.-, as we 

 are told, n.-iialiv a lieirv. It appears to me, however, that the most 

 essential characteristic of this type of I'ruit, the w»'ll tlitveloped nieso- 

 earp, eiielosing the seed as a llesliy ma.«s, is here conspicuously 

 reduced. The whole nuL-iS of tis,'<ue representing the pericarp, con- 

 sists of a lew lavers of cells, leprcseiitt-d in fig. 'J. It has the 

 apjK'arance of a thin iiile'_riiiiient such as we find in a caiyopsis tir 

 utricle rather lliaii that ofa pulpy «'iivelope. The material which 1 

 had at coiiiman<l wa.-, :is u rule, one, or rarelv two-sei-ded. I'ig. .'I 

 shows T-iich a (Mie-sceded fruit ciil through hngthwise. The npheri- 

 cal cmhryo is represented hy «■,; helow r. is an empty spuce, v. IJe- 



' Pro.-. .\i;i<l. Nut. .Si., .Mjirch 'Jh. Im'.CJ. 




•js.s 



I'KOCKKDINOS OK TIIK ACADKMY OF [IHOo. 



twoen till' si'»mI and the poricarp is fouiitl a mass ol' jellv, uliicli.it 

 should In- iiott'il, is pivst'iit hct'ori' <;('rmiMalit)ii. 



Ill my >can'h tin- the oriuiiml' this n'llv-likf sfcrctitm, I ul)scrvi'(l 

 llial it atlhi'icil liiiuly to tlii' st-t'il-coat, ami I was incliiuMl lo ht-jicvc 

 I hat possihiy tlu- lattiT mi<;ht in sonii' way ^ive rise t<» tiiis siihstaiice. 

 On t'xamiiKitioii I loiiml iiu tiiu-f oi u^lamliilar oi;j:aiis upon llu- 

 cpispfiiii iKir (lid the outer ceils themselves indicate ^elalinalion. 

 I eontinuetl my search, however. Vii^. 2 sutHciently indicates that 

 we tind neither special glands nor mclamiMplidsed c(dls in tlu' poilion 

 ot" the periear|> represented in the drawinii;. It represents almost any 

 part of the pericar|>, except that which I shall now describe. My 

 attention was next directed to the thickeninti, n., lig. .'>, which c(trie- 

 sponds to the point (if attachment ol' the fruit to the s|)adix. This 

 is hrown in color and <piite riiirose. On makiiiu' sections 1 loiiiid 

 that the wrinkles or folds are thickly lieseL with trichomes, shown 

 in Hi;. 4. They are more or less cluh shaped, of a hrownish «'olor, 

 especially en itKiKgc, and of a varyinii' size. In ireneral appearance 

 there is a striking resemhlance to the glandular hairs pi-odiiciiiLf 

 the gelatinous coating on the young leaves of liidxtiiiii /n'/lnl't 

 I'lirsh, and I have no doulit that the jelly-like .secretion of the fruil 

 of Pt/l nitlni iiiifhi/iifa Raf owes its origin to those glandular 

 trichomes situated in the hasal thickening of the pericarp. This 

 view wa.s contirmed hy suh.se(pient observations, especially during 

 the process of gennination. The first indication of germination 

 is probably the swelling of the jelly-like ma.ss, thereby ruptur- 

 ing the pericarp, which is llirowii otl', maintaining, however, ils 

 attachment to the secretion, where this, according to the view just 

 expressed, originates from it. Peculiar stri:e may be observed in 

 the jelly, all tending toward the point of attachment, fig. (5, //. 



That the formalion of the secretion is not in any way coiiiiectcd 

 with the development ot the embryo, was proven conclusively u]ion 

 opening im|»erfectfruits, fig. 7, /./'., in which the ovules were either 

 abortive or not fertilized, there being no embryo and the whole 

 cavity being completely tilled with jelly. The function of producing 

 the jelly must therefore d(!Volve upon the pericarp, and of this the 

 only portion which .seems adapted to this kind oi" activity is the 

 thickening at the base, above referral lo. 



In my paper on iirusenhi pell'itn I'lirsb I have called attention 

 t(j the fact thai the great (|uaiility ol' water which is the priiicip::! 




1^9o.] NATURAL SCIENCES OK I'll I LaDELFHIA. -^^ 



canstitueut ot" every gelatiuous secretion, i.s in this particnliir easf, in 

 all |)rul»al)ility, derived directly from tlie water sarronn<linir ilie jtlant 

 than tliat which is carried throngli the tissue of the phuit to I lie 

 o;landiihir orirans. The secretion in the fruit of PeJinndni ninliilntu 

 Haf. is not in ch)se contact with an atjueous inedinni, and it a|)|)ears to 

 me a significant fact that the tissue upon wliicli the ghindsof this plant 

 are supported is traver.-ed l»y S[)iral vcs'sels, lieiusr thereby well su|)- 

 plied with water-conducting tissue. The water in this case must of 

 necessitv he carried through the |)lant to the iiitcrioi' ottlu' fruii. 



A few more observations deserve a passing notice: ^\ hen 1 cnl- 

 Iccted my material for study October 7, 1^1*4, I observed that 

 some of the fruits had let': the spadix while others still crowdeil 

 aroun«l it surrounde<l bv tlir tough spathe. About a dozen of the 

 seeds I threw into a jar ct^ntaiuing water. ( )f these only three sur- 

 vivetl and irerminateil in March of this year. Kigs. <^ and !> 

 are drawings of seedlings as thcv appeared on April lo, ami 

 the plant.>< continued to live until the beginidng (»f May, allhough 

 thev hail no soil to root in. 



( )n April 1?S, of this year, Mr. MacElwee showe<l me a locality 

 nearCJray's Ferry Station where J'r/liniiliu irrows. Although the 

 seed.- whieh I hail collected lust year had germinaled a iininth ago, we 

 found that must of the ^eeds at this locality pist barely shciwed the 

 protruding tip of the tirst leaf, and some showed no signs whatever 

 of sprouting. It cannot be said that the appearance of the jelly is 

 invariably the hrsi indicatiim of a<tivity in the ,-eed, since J noti<'ed 

 repeatediv that the bud may appear while the secretion is still 

 enca.-^ed in the pi-ricaip. The plant lei |-epre>eiUed in lig. ^, ilid 

 not llirou back the pericarp either during LrerMiiiialiou (ir al'ter- 

 ward. 



Some of (he t'ruit> were placed on very Wet sand and in a few days 

 there were signs of vigorous growth, lig. I". ( )|hers wen* thrown on 

 water, and, although devi'lopmeiit toitk place, fig. II, il did not 

 seem a- liealtliv as when the fruits were allowed to re>l upon a solid, 

 allliongh thorou;rhlv wt-t, substratum. I he ditil'ieiice may be .ap- 

 preciated on comparing ligs. |0 and II, and this dilll-rence 

 became more ni;irke<l later on. 



St tar I h.ave not found aiiv s.aiistaciniy explanation for the de- 

 velopment of this |H-culiar jelly-like Hccrelion in the fruits of /V/- 

 (tiit'li'i nii'lii/ut'i Kaf. , its persistence iluriug geriuinulion. ami its 




200 PK(>CKBI)IN<)S OK Till'. ACAUKMY oK |" 1 805. 



tlisap|u^ar;iiu'e at'terwanls. It is prolnihli' lliat i(s liiiiclioii i.>< inuUH-lioii, 

 l)ul tlu' |)i\)l»lt'm as to tlu' t<|»ei'ial protection iicrded in tlii« particular 

 iM.-ie, can l)e l>est solved hy (tbscrving the ucrininalion ol the seed 

 in its natural environment. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



JlNi: 4. 



Rev. Hknry C. McCook, D. D., Vice-Presideut in the Chair. 

 Thirty-seven persons present. 



Jlne 11. 

 Rev. Henry C. Mc-C'ook, D. I)., Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Nineteen persons present. 



June 18. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 

 Fifty-four persons present. 



June 25. 



Ki:v. Hp:nry C. McCook, D. D., Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Eighteen persons present. 



A pa|)er entitled " Diptera of Florida, by C. W. Johnson ; with 

 additional descriptions of new genera and species," by D. W. 

 Co<juillett, was presented for publication. 



The following was ordered to l)e printe<l: 



21 




'-i^'i I'KOCKKOINOS OK TIIK A<AI>KMV OK [lSi)5. 



MEMOIR OF JOHN HOWARD REDFIELD. 

 UY THOMAS MKI'.IIAN. 



The tnsk assigned to me hy the Academy of prefjariiig a suitable 

 memoir of our late fellovv-memher, John Howard Redfield, is not an 

 easy one. To make famous one who sought not fame; and to tell to 

 the world of science the story of the life of one whose modesty and 

 self-abnegation scarcely allowed him to appreciate the value of 

 his own work, is surely a difficult undertaking. It has been my 

 fortune to have an acciuaintance with mankind to an extent enjoyed 

 bv few; with men and women famous in many walks of life; but I 

 have rarely known one who worked with such an earnest pur[)ose 

 to be useful, and who was at the same time so inditterent as to 

 whether the world knew of it ol- not, or whether he received credit 

 for the work which he had done. Associated with him as I have 

 been in the botanical work of the Academy since the early sixties, 

 and I may say clo.sely conuected with him in that work for the past 

 twenty years, I am amazed, now that he is gone, when I think of 

 how little I know of the man beyond his own beloved personality in 

 connection with that work. Once only did he stop to tell me of his 

 early life-struggle in the pursuit of knowledge. Referring to an early 

 incident in my own life occasioned In' a little fern we were examin- 

 ing, it moved him to say how similar were our experiences. Though 

 but four years of age he could remember going with his father to 

 visit his mother's grave, and how much he became interested in the 

 flowers which grew there; of his being told that one was the 

 "yarrow," and of his remembering the plant by this name forever 

 after; how his father, like himself, had no early advantages but 

 with an insatiable curiosity and such scientific books as chance threw 

 in his way, was continually talking to him, as he grew in years, of 

 the cause and effect of natural phenomena as he understood them; 

 how his father and he took a wagon ride to his wife's relations 

 through a storm-torn forest; while the son was looking for flowers, 

 minerals, shells and anything that was curious, the father was noting 

 the different directions in which the trees had been prostrated, and 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OK PJIII.ADEJ.FIII A. 293 



was thus led ultimately to discover the rotarv motion of storms 

 and tornadoes; how the simplest elements of knowledge only were 

 taught in the district school liy peripatetic teachers who boarded 

 around, and taught during the terms, Lindley's English Reader, 

 Milton's Paradise Lost, the Bible and Cook's Voyages being nearly 

 all the l)ooks within reach. Among all these varied teachers he 

 remembered two women, to whom he was especially indebted for his 

 love of flowers and nature. They fixed in him his earlier tendencies 

 and he was em])hatic in his l)elief that for boys under ten years of 

 age good women, all other things being equal, rather than men, 

 make the best teachers. His father brought him from New York a 

 Latin grammar and reader, and he tried in a measure to teach him- 

 self. He was now at an age — ten years — to appreciate the value 

 of knowledge, and would recite his lesson to the minister of their 

 church. A literary society was founded in the vicinity, encouraged 

 mainly by his father, and it was, he thought, this little institution 

 which made a man of him, though there were not over three hundred 

 volumes in the library. Que of these books was Thornton's Grammar 

 of Botany. He felt himself .something of a botanist from that time. 

 Hi.s father subsequently moved to New York. Here a school on 

 the Lancasterian system was established, a system in which the 

 advanced boys, as monitors, aided in teaching the classes; but instead 

 of the mere elementary studies in the general Lancasterian system, 

 a higher school was established in which mathematics, drawing, 

 bookkeeping, the ancient and modern languages, and something 

 of a business collegiate course was attempted. His father having 

 met with financial reverses, the boy had to leave school when four- 

 teen years of age and help to support himself by entering as a clerk 

 in a df}' goods store, his work being to dean, dust and deliver 

 parcels. Thus he pa.ssed three years, keeping up, however, his early 

 habit of .self-culture in all his spare time. The storv was so interest- 

 ing that I made a note of it, and this is all our good friend ever said 

 to me of himself. 



I was electefl a member of tbe Academy in 18<)0, and at once 

 a|q)lied n)y.self to assist Mr. Elias Durand, who alone seemed in- 

 terested in the herbariuni at that time. Mr. Hedfield, a few years 

 later, though actively engaged in bu8ine.«s, ma<le a practice of drop- 

 ping in for a short time at noon, daily, to give encouragement by 

 his presence at lea.^t. This was my first ac(juaintanco with him. 




204 l'U(K'KEI)IN(iS OK Till-; AtAI>KMY Ol [1895. 



Mr. Duraml died soon after. The collection \va.s in a deplnrahle 

 condition. Mr. Durand had liei-n very generous of his tinu- and 

 abilities. l)ut all he could do was in connection with the North 

 American herhariuin. Vlw ixiilding was on the line of a dusty 

 street, and the dust-covered packages of genera or natural orders 

 were quite repellant. Mr. Redtield's cheering calls were bright 

 spots in niv lonely task. I tried, however, to interest some of my 

 correspondents in behalf of the herbarium. Dr. Gray's reply was 

 suggestive. "What is the use of throwing valuable material into a 

 dust bin?" I was pondering over the note when Mr. Kedfiold 

 made his daily call. "Never miiul that," said he, in his cheery 

 manner, " I shall have more time .soon, and the new building is to go 

 up near mv residence. We will show them what sort of a 'dust bin' 

 we shall have after a while." From this time he began active work 

 on the herbarium, looking at first into the few collections, and com- 

 menced the great tnsk he imposed on himself, resulting in giving us 

 a herbarium of which botanical science everywhere is proud. His 

 intelligent earnestness made friends for the Acadenjy everywhere, 

 and it is pleasant to note that among all these friends no one was 

 more liberal or generous than the author of the "dust bin" note. 

 With the exception of the three summer mouths when he took a 

 vacation to northern sea shores, every day was given to herbarium 

 work, while many of his evenings were devoted to correspondence 

 with botanical friends all over the world. At his death he had 

 catalogued and indexed so that any specimen can be examined in a 

 few seconds, the w^hole collection nund)ering some thirty-five thou- 

 sand species of flowering plants and ferns. He had, with the aid of 

 an assistant, verified and fastened one-half of the specimens. 



The Academy is indebted to John H. Keilfield not only for his 

 great labors in behalf of the herbarium, but for the influence of his 

 personal character. His amiable qualities endeared him to every 

 one with whom he came in contact; his generous helpfulness, espe- 

 cially to younger botanists, carried gratitude to many distant re- 

 gionf; eminent men from all parts of the world honored him and 

 gave him pleasure by calling on him and enjoying his hosj)itality 

 when passing through the city. The Academy profited by the many 

 gifts of plants made as a tribute to his worth. It is probable no one 

 ever heard Mr. Kedfield make an ill-natured remark of another even 

 under temptation. Always full of good humor, he would even in a 




l''^95. ] NATIKAI. SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 295 



controversy incliue l>v some pleasant remark to allow the verdiet to 

 <j:o against himself. I^i this connection he was fond of repeating an 

 anecdote. A Scotchman returning to his native village inquired of the 

 sexton the state of affairs. The sexton sadly reported the decadence 

 of religion. In his opinion the only adherents of the true faith were 

 himself and the dominie, and sometimes he had "doots" about the 

 minister himself. He would suggest that perhaps he might he as 

 critical of the views of his friends as Sandy was. Loving ai^:)ropri- 

 ate stories to illustrate his points, he enjoyed them when uSed by 

 others. He often quoted from Dr. (iray, who, like himself, was 

 overfiowiiig with good nature. Mr. Redfield had asked him to \H 

 him have some duplicates if there were any. It hapj)ened that 

 there was but a single set, and no duplicates. Dr. Gray's pleasant 

 response was: " As the boy said when the other hoj^ed for a bite of 

 the apple, and modestly asked for the core, * Billy, there ain't goin' 

 to be no core in this apple." Such humorous stories usually came 

 in when it was evident further iliscussion was hopeless of results. 



There were, however, a few topics on which his exceptional good 

 nature would admit of no comjiromise, even in the way of a plea- 

 sant remark of no great consequence either way. One of these 

 was the well-meaning effort of some botanists to strictly enforce 

 the rule of priority in l)otanical nomenclature. To him. Conser- 

 vator of a great herl)arium, the effort admitted of no joke. The 

 older names to replace those long ad<jpted were so numerous, that 

 the revolution meant to him the comparative usc^lessness of his 

 life-long W(jrk. There nnist be new numbers, new lists, new names 

 on the sheets, new alphabetical indexes. He could not lieL'in that 

 great work of change at his time of life, nor could he see anvoiie 

 in pro.s|>ect who would. He vigorously contended that there must 

 be something wrong in an cHort that would render such life-work 

 a.s his comparatively useless. Commendations for the stand he 

 had taken in this matter were amontr the greatest jjleasures of his 

 latter days. 



Since his a<'tive coinieriion wiiii the Acudemv. he seems not 

 to have taken many long Imtaniral excursions. ( )ne, however, 

 the plea.siire of which he loved to recall, wa.- made in the summer 

 of l^TH, in com|)any with .Mr. W . M. Canby. Dr. Asudray, Dr. 

 Kntrelmaini and I'rof. C. .*^. Sargent, thrnugh the mountains (»f 

 North ( 'iiroiina. the result <»f which <'nn-*iderHblv enriched the 




-^^» THorKKDINOS OF THK ACADKMY <)K [1895. 



herhariuni of tlie Acmleniy. In 1879 lie iiia<U* another journey 

 to North Carolina with Dr. Gray to see wher^ ShoHia grew. One 

 mny see from the scrupuloius eare with which every fact of iin|iort- 

 ance is noted on the lnl)el.s attached to the plants collected on 

 these journeys how well traineil to conscientious accuracy his 

 mind had heen. His work for the day would he finished and 

 cleared uj) as if he never expected to resume it a^ain ; and when 

 he undertook a task his mind dwelt on it until the end had heen 

 reached. Happening, while penning these lines, to open a volume 

 on my tahle treating of the Celastracea-, I find a letter between 

 the pages which well illustrates Oiis finished character. We had 

 together been working up an unnamed collection from Tabasco in 

 Mexico. Leaving in the afternoon, I expected to be again in the 

 herbarium the next or at most the day after. But he could not 

 wait, and the letter came the next morning: "Phila., March 8rd, 

 1893. My Dear Meehan : I enclose you two or three softened 

 flowers of our last adversariiim for you to examine. As / see them, 

 they have five rounded imbricate sepals, five strongly reflexed petals, 

 five stamens alternate with the petals, filaments conical, no style, but 

 stigma sessile on the ovary. The ovary is too small for my poor 

 eyes to dissect. 



Try every way I can, I am driven back to Celastriua?, and I 

 have a suspicion that our plant may be Zuioivieivia integerrima 

 Turcz. B. & H. I, 364. B. & H. description says "stj/lus brevis," 

 but the original description says "stigma sessile on the ovary." 

 B, & H. say "folia opposita, " but if I recollect right, the origi- 

 nal description says "leaves alternate." But there are some diffi- 

 culties about this view. Yours, J. H. R. " 



On some other occasion, when we would feel the "nut too hard 

 to crack," I would hardly be home before there would be a 

 brief note, "Eureka!" and the name following as he had deter- 

 mined it. It must be to this habit of beginning and finishing at 

 once if possible, that we must ascribe the wonderful amount of 

 work accomplished. He commenced the work of putting the herba- 

 rium in order in 1870. In addition to the preparation for fastening 

 down the specimens and the accompanying label, on which work he 

 was engaged at the time of his death, he had previously arranged 

 in genus-covere the whole collection, writing on each the genus 

 and the numbers to correspr»iid with Benthiini ;iiid Hooker's work, 




1895.] NATL'KAJ> SCIENCES OF FHILADKM'HJ A. --'7 



uinl iiiaile a orreopoudiug index of classes and orders, so that auy 

 genus could be found in a few seconds. All the species had 

 heeu alphabetically arranged in the genus covers, and an alpha- 

 betical list of the named species pasted inside.. Anyone can see 

 at a irlauce whether the plant he is looking for is in the collec- 

 tion. Besides this, in the section of ferns, the whole collection 

 is written up in a handsome bound volume, with an index that 

 not only enables one to find at once the plant desired but also its 

 geographical range and many other tacts of importance (o tlie 

 student of pteridology. By reason of tliis careful cataloguing he 

 was al)le to tell exactly the number of species the herbarium con- 

 tained, information few .care-takers of herbariums can give. A 

 careful reconl was kept of every donation, and the donors' names, 

 like the names of the plants themselves, could soon be given to 

 anv impiirer. Ami yet he never seemed unduly hurried. In ad- 

 dition ti> this he had formed a great herbarium of his own, and 

 had made extensive (-ol lections in other fields of natural history. 

 Moreover, he maintaiiie<l to the last an interest in many other 

 branches of science and in the many tieltls of general intelligence 

 that connnanded the attention of pul)lic spirited citizens. He was 

 fond of looking up facts in the lives of useful men, placing them 

 on record, and getting in shajie for reference any go mI work 

 that they had done. He prepared for his family a full gene- 

 alogy of their ancestry. Another valuable task that he accom- 

 plished was the collection and :irranging of the Ixjtanical corresi)on- 

 deiice of Zaccheus Collins, which precious volume is kept for safety 

 in the fireproof of the Academy. The work is iiivaluai)le for the 

 light it sheds on the lives and labors of our early botanists. When 

 .Miehaux's Journal was discovered among the archives of the Aiiuri- 

 ean i'hilosophical Steiety and Trof. Sargent decided to tran-late 

 il from French to English, and have copies printed, he aided* the 

 I'rofessor in overseeing its issue from the press. He was always 

 ready for every sm-h call. 



It setrms but yesterday that I heard his last remark to me: '' I 

 mu>t lay these a."<ide now, as 1 will attend the Forestry Convention 

 at \ o'doek, " and even the last letter he wrote to me on hiw death 

 bed wius fidl of his work. " I felt ehillier than I ought to be when 

 I was in the herbarium room on Friday, and went lionn'. I am 

 resting in bed now, and the Hotani(;al Section meeting to-night must 




298 PKOCKKOINOS OK TIIK ACADK.MY OK [1895. 



take care of itself." To many wlm luive since paused to reflect on 

 the wouderful amount of work accompli.'shed, his methodical and 

 systematic linhits furnish the only explanation. Frequently he has 

 heeu approached hy triends to allow the u.se of his name for the 

 higher honor.-* of the Academy. This he always declined. He 

 could never he induced, even in the Botanical Section, to accept any 

 hiirher position than Conservator of the herbarium. He served 

 many years as Councillor, in which position his business traininj^ 

 rendered eminent .service, and he succeeded Dr. Joseph Lcidy as 

 Chairman f»f the Publication Committee of the Academy. 



Aside from his services to science in the Academy, the outer 

 scientific world is largely his debtor. When the American Society 

 of Geologists became the American Association for the Advance- 

 ment of Science, the father, W. C. Redfield, suggested the change 

 and was the first President of the new body, the son being a 

 member. The Lyceum of Natural History of New York had 

 the benefit of his able services before his removal to Philadelphia, 

 in 1861, to be associated in the business of Asa Whitney & Sons 

 — the senior member of the firm being his father-in-law. At the 

 request of his family he penned for them an account of his early 

 history and of his connection with the New York Lyceum, which I 

 have been kindly permitted to exam-ine, and from which I gather 

 the following facts. In the preface to this little family task he con- 

 cludes : " Moreover ought I not to leave some expression of grati- 

 tude to my Heavenly Father for a life wliich has been so full of 

 mercies, which has flowed so evenly and so smoothly, disturbed by 

 few storms and tempests, and of which the few sharp afllictions have 

 been tempered with mercies, calling for thanksgiving." 



He traces the American family to Wm. Redfin, of English 

 birth, who .settled near Cambridge, Mass., in 1639, and who subse. 

 quently moved to New London, Connecticut. The form Redfield was 

 assumed before 1662. His only son, James Redfield, was a tanner. 

 His son, Theophilus Redfield, married a descendent of John Alden, 

 of Mayflower celebrity. Peleg, the grandson of Theophilus, the 

 grandfather of John Howard Redfield, was born at Middletown, 

 Connecticut, January 22, 1762. He entered a privateer during the 

 war of Independence, was ca])tured by a British frigate, but escaped; 

 he died in 1802. Wm. C. Redfield was Peleg's eldest son. He 

 was born at South Farms. Connecticut, March, 26, 1789. He was 




1895.] NATIHAI. SCIKXCKS OK PHI l.ADKMMil A. 299 



apprenticed to a s:i<ldler, joined a villatre debating society, and, 

 under the inspiration of" his mother, spent all his spare time in self- 

 instruction. 



J. H. Kedfield was horn at Middletown, Conn.. July 10. 1815. 

 His mother died when he was hut tour years old. His father at this 

 time had a saddler's shoj) antl country store. His early education 

 has heen already told. In this account Mr. Kedtield notes that 

 ever}' country store sold liquor, Imt in 1830 his father refused, as a 

 matter of conscience, to sell any more. Ahout 1825 his father he- 

 cominir interested in steam hartre traffic on the Hudson, sjjcnt most 

 of his time in New York, and in 1S27 took his family there. John 

 was sent to a Lancasterian school. It furnished good, although cheap, 

 eihication — (-Sol. 50 a year). The principal teacher, Kev. San)uel [.' . 

 liarne.s, originally a iiaptist clergyman, gave natural history lessons 

 on the blackhiiard. He gave J. H. Kedlield and six other hoys 

 extra lessons in mineralogy, taking them on excursions on Saturdays. 

 Barnes was one of the founders of the New York Lyceum. He used 

 to join in the sports of the hoys as well as their studies, and for the 

 fir>t time in his life young Kedfield loved school. 



The father took every means to advance the son's education 

 as opportunity afforded. Though personal assiduity did much, he 

 owed much to the teachers employed hy his father for him. He 

 hafl this help in the several langujiges he acquired, the Italian, 

 which he inastered late in life, being the only one he learned wholly 

 bv himself In l.'^53 he left school finally and became a clerk in the 

 "Swift Sure Line" of steamboats. His father <lie<l in 1858, but he 

 continued in tho office three years lor)ger, till removing to I'hila- 

 delphia. 



The New York Lyceum was organized April 24, 1M]7, and b«'- 

 came the New York A<'ademy of Sciences in 187H. As a new mem- 

 ber of the Lyceum young Kedtield thought a tyro had made a mistake 

 in venturing among great men. but he found them all so child-like 

 ami genial that his agitation was soon dispelled. Or. Asa Cirny, the 

 librarian, was espe<'ially cordial. Young Kedtield had his first 

 scientific ap|K/intment as one of a committee to rent a room. It was 

 thought wonderful that twenty-four members assembled to receive 

 the committee's re|K)rt. His father gave o<'casioiuil :iddresses on 

 meteorologv and ;:eolog\ . I)r. .lohii ( '. Jav fii>t made ('<incholo<_'y 

 interesfim: in tlx- Lvceum and Kedliehl became chiirnied with that 




•5'*'^ IM{(t(.KKl>INC}S OK IIIK ACADK.MY < H-' [1X5);"). 



Study. His fatlier was t;ec'oiul Vice-rit'sideiit of the Lyceum of 

 Ntitural History from 1S47 to 1851, iind first Vice-President irom 

 18.52 to 18(58, and the son was Correspondinjf Secretary from 18o9 

 to 18<jOand previously, from 1857 to 1858. Recording Secretary. He 

 notes Dr. Asa Gray, at that time 2() years ohl, as coming into the 

 Lyceum about 1 "^oS. J)r. Torrey was an early friend of W. C. 

 Kedfield. so the son knew him before he joined the Lyceum. Though 

 botany was the son's early love, threatened impairment of eye-sight 

 diverted him to conchology. He soon became again warmly in- 

 tere<te«l in botany, rising for collecting excursions at four in the 

 morning. 



Passing now U) his labors with us, it may be noted that he rarely 

 misserl a meeting of the Academy, and was one of the most regular 

 in throwing into the general fund such knowledge as he possessed on 

 the subjects discussed. He may be regarded as the chief founder of 

 the Botanical Section, and he gave freely of his knowledge in most of 

 the discussions before the Section. Reports of many of his verbal 

 communications have i)een published in the Proceedings of the 

 Academv. 



His lirst contrilnilion to scientific literatun; was in 1860, when he 

 described a new shell — a species of Man/hiella. He furnished the 

 note? on the genus Miin/iiiella as described in Reave's Conchologia 

 Icouica and in Tryon's American Journal of Conchology in 1869 

 and 1870. His nine earlier papers in the Annals of the iS^ew Yoik 

 Lyceum, relate wholly to conchological subjects. The "Bulletin 

 of the Torrey Botanical Club" contains a number of articles bv 

 him on botanical topics, die of which, " The Geographical Dis- 

 tribution of the Ferns of North America," iu the volume for 

 1875, is of standard value, as is also the paper on " Insular Flora" 

 iu the volume for 1886. His greatest and last contributicm is the 

 " Preliminary Catalogue of the Plants growing on i\It. Desert and 

 adjacent islands." by Edward L. Rand and John H. Redfield, which 

 was issued in 1 '■^94. The work, though with characteristic modesty 

 .-tyled a '• [)reliniinary catalogue." ranks among the best of local 

 Moras, and will long aid in keeping the name of the associate 

 author fresh in the memory of woiking botanists. Tributes to his 

 memory from many corriispondents ail Sj)eak of the unselfish good- 

 ness of the man. Our highly venerated colleague, Dr. Ruschen- 

 bcrger, who ha.s als(j recently passed away from us, in a letter 




1895.] NATL'KAI. SCIENCES OF PHILADEI^PHIA. '^01 



writtfu Oil March 18, but a short time before his owu death, 

 reiuarlved on the peculiar modesty of Mr. Redfield: "He never, 

 within my hearing, made his own acts a su!)ject of conversation or 

 reference." ^Ir. E. L. Rand, his colleague in the preparation of 

 the "Preliminary Catalogue," sums up brietly what so many 

 have expres!?ed more in detail: "Circumstances tlirew us into 

 the most intimate correspondence and association (hiring the hist 

 seven or eight years and made me familiar with his beautiful 

 character. He was always high-jiriiicipled, simple-hearted, 

 charitai)h', kind and helpful, an artectionate friend, a wise counsel- 

 lor, an upright judge. I can hardly realize that he is really gone 

 from this earth, and that I am left alone in the work that we pur- 

 sued so long together." 



February the 27th, I89.j, the day <jn wiri-h he pa^M-d away, will 

 long be remembered in the annals uf the Academy as the 

 auniversarv of the loss of one of its iiiosi valuable ami dt-voted 

 associates. 




302 I'HOCKKIUNMJS OK THK ACAUKMY OK [1H95. 



Jn.Y 2. 

 Mk. Chaklks Mouuis in the Chair. 

 Fourteen persons present. 



The deaths of H. H. Hou.ston, a member, June 21, 1<S95, and of 

 Thomas Henry Huxley, a oorres})oudent, June 29, 1M95, were 

 announced. 



July 9. 

 Dk. Geo. H. Horn in the Chair. 

 Twelve peri5ons present. 



JlLY 16. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 

 Twelve persons present. 



July 23. 

 Dr. C. N. Peirce in the Chair. 

 Nine persons present. 



A paper entitled "Notes on American Enchytraeidie. — I, New 

 Species of Fridericia from the vicinity of Philadelphia," by J. Percy 

 Moore, was presented for publication. 



July 30. 

 Dr. Geo. H. Horn in the Chair. 

 Eleven persons present. 

 The followinir were ordered to be printed: — 




1895.] NATTRAI. SCIENCES OK PHI I.A HKI^PHI A. -^03 



DIPTEEA OF FLORIDA. 



BY C. W. Johnson. 

 With AdditiMiial Def<criptiou8 of New (leiiera and Sjiecief*. 



BY D. W. tOC^riLLETT. 



This pa[)er is based upon material collected duriuj: a residence in 

 St. Augustine from 1880-88 ^although then not especially intere.^ted 

 in Diptera); a visit in March, 1891, and again in May, 1894; a 

 collection made by Mrs. Annie T. Slosson during her winter vit^its; 

 the collection of Mr. Chas. Robertson, of C'arlinville, 111.; an 

 interesting lot received from Mr. Frank -H. Genung of iSt. 

 Augu.-^tine, and the collection of the C S. National Museum. The 

 trip of May, 1894, was a conchological one, made in company with 

 Prof. H. A. Pilsbry, through the kindness of Mr. Clarence li. 

 Moore, Diptera l)eing an incidental feature. The localities Welaka, 

 Georgetown, Drayton Island, Juniper Creek, Volusia, Astor, and 

 Tick Islan<l are all in the vicinity of Lake George and Lake Wood- 

 ruff. Considering the few specie.* that have actually been recorded 

 fniiii Florida the following list .«eem8 a large one, but there is little 

 diiubt that this number (504) can l)e increased more than three 

 times if collections were made in all sections of the State and at ditier- 

 ent sea.son8 of the year. A number of West Indian species are here 

 n'((»rd«'d from Florida for the first time as well as the most soutlicrn 

 distribution of many northern species. A collection from the P'lor'da 

 Keys would unrloubtedly increase the percentage of West Indian 

 species, while the western part of the State would add many more 

 species of the Mississipfii Valley. Texas, and Mexico. 



While a resident of Florida I was interested in Coleopteni. :iiid the 

 valuable |)aper, "The Coleoptera of P^lorida," l»y Mr. 1]. A. 

 Srhwarz, suggested this list. I only regret that it is not a more 

 complete representation of the fauna, but hoj>e that it will lead t(j a 

 l»etter knowletige of the Diptera of Florida. 



I am under great obligations to Mr. D. W . Cocjuillett of Wash- 

 ington, D. C Without his generous aid this list could not have 




304 I'KOfKKniNGS OK THK AlAI»i:.MV <)!• [1895. 



I)eeii made. To Mr.s. t^losson for the generous lonn of" spet'inic'iis. 

 To Prof. J. M. AMrirh for the iletermiuation ot the Dolichopoilidie. 

 To l*rof. Kiley for the privilege of looking over the collection of (he 

 V. S. National Museum, and to Mr. Chas. Robertson, Mr. W. A. 

 Snow, Dr. S. W. Williston, Mr. W. D. Hunter, and others, for 

 kind assistance. 



DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES. 



BY C. W. .lOIINSOX. 



Nemotelus immaoulatus n. s\>. 



I^ength 4 mm., S . Face and vertical triangle blackish; eyes of 

 a dull brown color (probably much lighter than in the living speci- 

 men); antenn£e yellow; proboscis red, unusually long, with an acute 

 angle, the two portions thus formed being of almost equal length, the 

 outer half is curved downward and the basal part of the other is some- 

 what enlarged. Thorax black, with sparse whitish pubescence most 

 prominent on the pleurre; scutellum black; abdomen greenish wliite, 

 immaculate. Legs light yellow ; wings hyaline, whitish. One speci- 

 men, St. Augustine (F. H. Genung). 



Nemotelus slossonse n. sp. 



Length 3 mm., S. Face and vertical triangle black, shining; 

 facial protuberance very prominent, conical; frontal triangle brown. 

 The up})er portion of the eye with large facets brown, the lower 

 third with small facets l)lackish; antennie dark l)rown. Thorax and 

 scutellum black, shining; a narrow light yellow lateral line extends 

 from the humerus to the posterior angle. Abdomen yellowish white; 

 a central mark on the first segment below the scutellum, a dorsal 

 triangle and a small spot near the lateral margin of the fourth, and 

 the fifth except a narrow lateral and posterior margin black; in one 

 specimen there is a minute Ijrown dot near the anterior angle of the 

 third segment. Venter whitish. Legs black; tip of the femora, 

 base and tip of the tibiie, and the tarsi whitish; wings hyaline, whit- 

 ish; discal cell emits four veins. 



Two specimens, Charlotte Harl)or, March. To Mrs. Annie T. 

 Slosson, who has done so much to further our knowledge of the 

 Diptera of Florida, this species is dedicated. 



Leptogaster cbscuripennis u. sp. 



Length L3 and 14 mm., S 9. Head brown; face, front, inferior 

 orbits and occiput covered with a dense grayish pubescence; pro- 




1895.] XATfRAL SCIENCES OF HHIJ.AnKLPHlA. oiMJ 



boscis black, base yellow; aiiteniKe yellow, terminal joint and style 

 black. Thorax brown, dorsum shining; lateral margins^, pleura?, 

 por^terior angles, and scutellum covered with a grayish pubescence. 

 AI)domen: tirst segment blackish with a prominent row of bristles at 

 the jX)Sterior margin, second and third segments brown, the remain- 

 ing segments blackish with more or less brown at the anterior and 

 posterior margins, and covered with a grayish jiubescence. Venter 

 brownish. Legs reddish, thickly covered with minute yellow hairs, 

 and dark brown spine-like bristles on the tarsi; claws idack. bristles 

 on the tibije yellow; wings of a uniforuj dark brown, veins Itlack. 

 Two specimens, St. Augustine. 



AsiluB anratus n. sp. , 



Ivcngth S 12 9 15 mm. Face and front light yellov. pollinose; 

 facial protuberance with long whitish bristles; occiput light yellow 

 pollinose, and long white pile, whicli in some specimens is brownish 

 near the verte.x; o row of black hairs extends along the frontal 

 orbits; ocelli black; proboscis black; antennie reddish, fir^t and 

 second joint with numerous black hairs, third joint and arista brown. 

 Thorax golden yellow pollinose, witli a wide dorsal stripe that i.s 

 attenuated and obsolete (in certain lights) towards the scutellum. 

 .some specimens show an obsolete linear interval of a lighter color, 

 thus dividing the stripe into two parts; the entire doi*snm with short 

 black hairs; a few long, black and yellow bristles are arranged as 

 follows: four on the side just before the suture, the others in a lateral 

 and two subdorsal rows on the posterior half of the thorax, scutellum 

 vellow jHjllinose, with Itlack hairs, and two yellow bristles; |)leur:e, 

 an<l coxie, yellowish white pollinose. Abdomen yellow |K)llinose; 

 fovere<l (except at the base of the tirst, and a wide basal and posterior 

 margin on the second, third and fourth segments; with bl'.ick hairs: the 

 smooth basal ban«ls on the second, third and fourth, have two trans- 

 verse rows «)f |)unctulate spots, one of the rows i.** often covered on 

 the third and fourth by the preceding segment; near the posterior 

 margins of the .segments is a row of black and yellow bristles; 

 hvpopvgium n-d, shining, with whitish hairs, ovipositor black, 

 shining. I>'gs red; with dose-lying whitish hairs ami prominent 

 black and yellow bristles, tip of the femora with a spot on each 

 side, tip of thf posterior tibi:f. and tip of all the tarsal joints black- 

 ish; claws iihu'k, pulvilli red. The base, and iliscal portion of the 

 wing clear hyaline, leaving the tip and a wide posterior border of a 




•S06 I'KOCKEDINOS OF THK ACADKMY OF [1895. 



brownish tint. Seven specimens, I'alatk:!, M;iy 1!*, St. Auj^nsline, 

 May 1>1. IcSlM. 

 Calobata varipes n. sp. 



LeiiiTlh 14 mm., 9. He:ul ltUiisli-l(liici<, .-liining, opiujue with 

 hUu'k pile above and below the antenme; vertex, in a depreasiou 

 surroundinir the (•eelli with dense yellowish pubescence, vertex with 

 eitrht prninincnt bristles; occiput with black pile; antennje red, seta 

 black, tirst and second joints covered with short black hairs; proboscis 

 black. Thorax black, posterior anj^leslinnvnish, dorsum with a grayish 

 pubescence, leaving two narrow black stripes which become obsolete 

 l)eyond the sutures, pleune black, shining, metapleune and metano- 

 tum covered with whitish j)ubescence. Scutellum blackish above, 

 brown beneath. Abdomen black, shining. Coxie and femora red; 

 tip, and a baud a little beyond the middle of the posterior and middle 

 femora and the apical third of the anterior femora black, anterior 

 and posterior tibite black, middle tibia brown, first and second joints 

 of the anterior and posterior tarsi white, the remainder of the an- 

 terior and posterior tarsi, and the entire middle tarsi black; the legs 

 are covered throughout with short, black hairs, with some bristles on 

 the tibiie. Wings tinged with brown, which is more conspicuous 

 along the anterior margin, tip and cross veins. 



One specimen, Jacksonville, May 22, 1894. 

 Heterochroa ornata n. sp. 



Length 2A mm., 9 . Face, front and occiput yellow, with yellow 

 pubescence; a row of black bristles extends from the base of the 

 anteunse along the frontal and vertical orbits and around the occiput, 

 four bristles are arranged in a quadrangle around the ocelli; ocelli 

 whitish ; antenna yellow, arista and a prominent row of hairs on the 

 second joint black, arista with minute hairs. Thorax and scutellum 

 yellow, with yellow pubescence, and black hairs and bristles. Ab- 

 domen brownish black, irregularly mottled with whitish pubescence 

 with a few scattering black hairs, which gives the white portions a 

 punctated appearance. Legs yellow, with black hairs and bristles. 

 The basal portion of the wing, including the costal cell, a small angle 

 of the marginal, submarginal, and half of the basal cell, anal angle, 

 and alar appendage, hyaline; the remainder of the wing clouded 

 with black, and having the following whitish hyaline markings: mar- 

 ginal cell with three spots, the middle one quadrate, and three or 

 four times the size of the others; submarginal cell with three spots. 




1895.] XATURAJ. SClKNCEsJ OF PHILADELPHIA. 307 



two below the large quadrate jpot of the niargiual cell, and one at 

 the end of the second longitudinal vein; first posterior cell with four, 

 one at the posterior cross vein, two smaller ones n)idway between the 

 first and the large one at the tips of the wing, the latter occupying 

 the entire width of the cell: second posterior cell with four occupy- 

 ing the central portion, the larger ones coalescent ; third posterior 

 cell with three spots, the large middle one triangular; discal cell 

 with two, the outer one three or four times the size of the others. 

 One specimen, Drayton Island, May 9, 1894. 



DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW (GENERA AND SPECIE.S. 



BY D. W. COQIILLETT. 



Platyura elegans n. sp., <? 9 • 



Head black, lower part of front and the face yellow; antennse 

 black, the two basal joints yellow; pi-ul)o.^cis yellow, its apex and 

 the palpi black. Dorsuin of thorax opaque brownish black, the 

 side?, pleura and scutellum, yellow; metanotum brown, this color 

 extending upon the pleura to the middle cox;c. Abdonien shining 

 i)r(>wnish- black, the first segment, both ends of the second, apices of 

 the third and fourth, and the whole of the fifth, yellow; first five 

 'ventral .segments also yellow. Halteres and legs yellow, tibiio desti- 

 tute of bristles. Wings grayish hyaline, marked with two irregular 

 brown cro.ssbands and with two brown spots; the first band begins at 

 the rirst vein before its tip, is interrupted between the branches of 

 the fifth vein, and stops before reaching the hind margin of the wing, 

 its [Mjsterior jMjrtion scarcely half as wide as the costal part; the second 

 band starts from the tip of the third vein and stops at the anterior 

 branch of the fifth a short distance before its tip, where the band is 

 scarcely one-fifth !U* wide as at the costa; midway between these two 

 V»aiids is u large brown s]K>t reaching fro?n the anterior branch of 

 the fifth vein to tin- hind margin of the win-.' at the tip of the pos- 

 terior branch ; a brown cloud on anterior branch of third vein, this 

 branch tertninatin'/ at twi(;e ils leiiirth l)eyorid the tip of the first 

 vein. IvCtiL'lli '^>J> mm. 



Georgetown, Florida. May 10, IH'M .( W .Johnson i; North 

 Carolina. A single specimen of each sex. 



The sftecimen from the latter locality is tiom hr. Kiltv's collec- 

 tion, now in il- VMtloi.iI \li(.< i|i|. 



22 




30H HROCEEDINaS OK THK ACADKMY OF [1H95. 



Neoglaphyroptera cincta n. sp., $ . 



Hviid, including the mouth parts, yt^llow, each ocellus situated on 

 a l)lac*k spot, the median very small; anteuuje yellow on the six 

 basal joints, the remainder blackish. Thorax, pleura and scutellum 

 vellow, a large black vitta at base of" each wing extending across 

 the metanotum. Abdomen shining black, base of each segment 

 and the whole of the sixth and seventh, yellow. I^gs yellow, 

 bristles of front tii)i8e minute, those of the others large. Wings 

 yellowish hyaline, unmarked ; third vein issuing from the first 

 slightlv beyond the forking of the fourth. Length 4.5 mm. 



Tick Island, Florida, May 12, 1894. C. W. Johnson. A single 

 specimen. 

 Ceratopogon albaria n. sp., 9- 



Head black, the face and mouth parts yellowish; antennte brown, 

 the basal joints yellow. Thorax, pleura and scutellum black, densely 

 opaque white poUinose. Abdomen black, subshiniug. Legs yellow, 

 both ends of the femora and tibite, apices of first three tarsal joints, 

 and the whole of the last two joints, brown; last tarsal joint ciliate 

 on the under side with rather long setse, the claws subequal in 

 length, slightly over half as long as the last tarsal joint. Wings 

 whitish hyaline, vein sconcolorous excepting the small cross vein and 

 base of third vein, which are narrowly clouded with brown ; sub- 

 marginal cell divided near its first fourth by a cross vein situated 

 nearly three times its length before the tip of the first vein; fourth 

 vein branching the length of the small cross vein before the latter, 

 at a point slightly beyond the branching of the fifth. Halteres yel- 

 low, the knobs each marked with a black spot. Length 3 mm. 



Drayton Island, Florida, May 9, 1894. C. W. Johnson. A 

 single specimen. 

 Tanypns concinnus n. sp.. 9- 



Light yellow, three vittse on the thorax reddish yellow, the middle 

 one bordered each side with black, the lateral ones changing into 

 black posteriorly; a dot at each front angle of the scutellum, middle 

 of metanotum, a fascia at base of each abdominal segment except 

 the first, apices of tibiie, of metatarsi, of the second joint of the 

 middle and hind tarsi, the whole of the remaining joints and the last 

 four of the front tarsi, black. Penultimate joint of hind tarsi ob- 

 cordate, as broad as long. Wings naked, whitish hyaline, veins 




1895.] XATURAI. SCIENCES OK PHILADELPHIA. 309 



pale yellownsh, small cross vein clouded with brown ; first vein forked 

 before its apex, tlie fifth forkinir slightly l)eyond the cross vein. 

 Leiitjth 3 mm. 



Tick Island, Florida, (May 12, 1892 ; C. W. Johnson). A single 

 specimen in Mr. Johnson's collection. 



Masiphya aurigera u. sp. $ . 



Black, the second autennal joint, base of the third, the jialpi, and 

 fourth abdominal segment except its base, yellow. Front at vertex 

 hardly two-fifths as wide as either eye, vittanext the antenna* nearly 

 as wide as either side of the front, the latter and the face golden 

 polliiiose; frontal bristles descending to tip of second antennal joint, 

 four in each row curving backward; anteniuc nearly two-thirds as 

 long as the face, the third joint slightly over twice as long as the 

 second; arista thickened on the basal fourth; vibrisste at a point 

 twice the length of the second antennal joint above the oral margin, 

 ridges bristly ou the lower fourth; proboscis robust, the portion 

 between the basal articulation and the large labella scarcely longer 

 than the latter. Thorax gray pollinose, marked with four black 

 vittae; four postsutural and three mesopleural raacrochajtae; scutellum 

 l)earing six pairs of long marginal macroducta*. Abdomen gray 

 p<;llino8e, with brownish reflecting sj)ots, genitalia only slightly pro- 

 truding; first and second segment bearing a marginal pair of niacro- 

 cha-tas third with a marginal row, the fourth with scattered nuicro- 

 chatie on the apical two-tliinis. Hiiul til;ia' not ciliate, destitute of 

 lung hairs on the iiuier side, pulvilli as long as the last tarsal joint. 

 Wings hyaline, slightly tinged with gray l)asally, third vein l)eariiig 

 four bristles at the base, the otiiers bare; bend of fourth vein 

 destitute of an appendage. Length 11 mm. Florida. Mi-s. A. T. 

 .Sh)8son. A single specimen. 



TACniNINiE. 

 P3EUD0CHJETA n. k.m. 

 Anterior pair of ocellar liristles wanting, two pairs of backwardly 

 curving orbital bristles in both sexes and an additional pair of 

 forwardly directed ones in the femah'; the upper pair of frontal 

 liristl&s is on a line with the backwanlly curving orl)ifals and con- 

 siderai)ly removed from the other frontais which are much smaller 

 and decu.ssatc, extending from the lowest ocellus to the arista; 

 antenna as long as the face, the third joint in the male five 




•SlU IMtorKKKINCJS OK IIIK ACADKMY <>1- [1895. 



titnoM, in tlu> tomiile three time:? a^ long as the second; aristii hare, 

 the pennhiniate joint not longer than hroaii; head at insiTtion of 

 vihrissie halt' as long :!!• at hase ol" antenna-, face in proiile convex, 

 the !*ides hare, each at the narrowest part one-eighth as wide as the 

 median depression, ridges bristly on tlie lower tour-iit'ths; vihrissie 

 widely separated, inserted on the oral luargiu; cheeks one-seveuth 

 as broad as the eye- height, the lower half covered with short bristly 

 hairs, the usual row of macrocluetic on the lower hctrder; eyes niicro- 

 scopically pubescent; proboscis robust, the portion beyond the basal 

 articulation not half as long as height of head, labella very large; 

 palpi clavate, well-developed. Abdonieu oblong-oval, of four seg- 

 ments which are subeijual in length. Hind tibia' outwardly ciliate 

 with short bristles intermixed with two or three longer ones. Third 

 vein bearing a few bristles at the base, the others bare; apical cell 

 open, ending at four- fifths of the distance betww'en the second vein 

 and the extreme wing-tip; bend of fourth vein obtuse, destitute of 

 an appendage; hind cross vein slightly nearer to the bend than to 

 the small cross vein, its jwsterior end nearer to the wing-margin 

 than to the small cross vein. Type, the following species: 



Pseudochaeta argentifrons n. sp. $ 9. 



Black, including the mouth parts. Front at vertex about as wide 

 as either eye, vitta next the antennje two-thirds as wide as either 

 side of the front, the latter and the face densely silvery pollinose, 

 antennal arista thickened on the basal third. Thorax gray polli- 

 nose; marked with four black vittoe; four postsntural and two sterno- 

 pleural macrocha'tas scutellnm bearing three pairs of long marginal 

 and a pair of short apical macrochfeta\ Abdomen ?hining except 

 the grayish pollinose bases of the last three segments; first two 

 segments each with a marginal [>air of macrochieta', third with a 

 marginal row, the fourth with scattered macrochatre excejjt on the 

 basal fourth; genitalia not projecting. Pulvilli scarcely half as 

 long as the last tarsal joint. Wings hyaline, calypteres grayish 

 white. Length 5 mm. Charlotte Harbor, Florida (Mrs. A. T. 

 Slosson), and Los Angeles, California (D. W. Coquillett;. Four 

 males and three females. 



Achaetoneura rubentis ii. sp. 9 . 



Front at vertex three-fourths as wide as either eye, the vitta 

 blackish, next the autennie slightly narrower than either side of 




1895.] NATrUAl^ SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 311 



front, the latter srav pollinose; frontal bristles descending to base of 

 third antennal joint, three in each row directed backward; two pairs 

 of orbitals; face in profile slightly convex, retreating below, the 

 sides bare; ridges bristly on lower half; antenna' four- fifths as long 

 as the face, black, the base of the third joint yellowish, this joint 

 two and one- half times as long as the second; arista thickened on the 

 basal fonrth, its penultimate joint broader than long; proboscis 

 blark, i)alpi yellow. Thorax black, gray pollinose and with four 

 black vittie; three postsutural and three sternopleural macrochaette ; 

 scutelluni gravish black, bearing three long marginal j^airs of 

 niacrochit'tie. Abdomen yellow, base of first segment and a dorsal 

 vitta extending to the third black, the third segment irregularly 

 tiii;,'ed witli blackish; first segment destitute of dorsal mucrocha'ta', 

 the second with a small discul and marginal pair, the third with a 

 discal pair and marginal row, fourth with a marginal row; venter 

 a[)pcaring as if longitudinally incised in the middle, the second and 

 third segments lobately produced, the lobes of the third segment 

 studded with short black spines on their terminal half. Legs black, 

 hind tibia' rather sparsely ciliate with short bristles, with a longer 

 one at the first fourth and one nearly twice as long at the middle. 

 Wings hyaline, third vein bearing fi)ur bristles at its base, the others 

 bare: a|)ical cross vein straight, ending close to the third at last 

 fourth of distance from second to tip of wing; hind cross vein strongly 

 curved. Length 7 mm. Jack.-ionville, Florida. W. II. Ashmead. 

 A single specin)en. 

 Acemyia dentata ii. s\>. ?. 



Black, the pal|)i (usually; and iabclla of proboscis yelhjw, face 

 an<l cheeks tinged with yellow. Front al vertex almost as wide as 

 either eye, the sides yellowish or gray pollinose, the vitta black, 

 next the auteniue slightly narrower than either side of the front; 

 three pairs of forwardly directed orl)ital bristles; frontal bristles 

 descending nearly to middle nf second antennal joint, three in each 

 row curving backward; sides of lace bare, each at narrowest part 

 one-sixth as wide as the facial dejiression; two or three bristles above 

 eacli vibris.sa; cheeks less than one-fifth as wide as the eye-height, 

 bare except on the lower half; anteniKe two-thirds as long as the 

 face, the third joint nearly twice as long i\s the second, the apical 

 front angle produced in the form ot" a tooth; arista tliicketml on the 

 basal third. Thorax grayish jiollinose, nuirked with four black 




312 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACAOEMY OF [1<S!)5. 



vitt;i'. three |><)stsuturnl nmoroch:et:e and two sternopleurul ; seiMel- 

 hiin hearing three pairs ot long marginal niacroehatie, the pot^terior 

 pair cruciate. Abdomen gray pollinose and with hhick reflecting 

 spots, first segment destitute of dorsal macroclKL't;e, the second with 

 a marginal pair, the third and fourth each with a marginal row. 

 Hind tibia unequally bristly, not ciliate. Wings hyaline, a single 

 bristle at the base of third vein, the others bare; apical crossvein 

 slightly concave, joining the third a short distance before its tip, the 

 bend destitute of a stump or wrinkle ; hind cross vein nearly straight. 

 Length 6.5 mm. Georgetown, Florida, May 10, 1894, and Mobile, 

 Alabama, October 22, 1894 (C". W. Johnson); also Los Angeles Co.. 

 California, in February and September (D. W. Coquillett). Four 

 specimens. 



Belvosia slossonae u. sp. ?. 



Black, the frontal vitta, face, palpi and scutellum yellow. Front 

 at vertex one and one-half times as wide as either eye, frontal vitta 

 ne.xt the antenuje subequal in width to either side of the front, the 

 latter shining yellowish gray; itwo pairs of orbital bristles; frontal 

 bristles descending almost to tip of second antennal joint, the upper- 

 most iu each row curving backward, the next one directed ])ackward 

 and inward, the two outside of these curving backward; anterior pair 

 of ocellar bristles wanting; antennte four-fifths as long as the face, 

 the third joint slightly over twice as long as the second; arista 

 thickened its entire length, the penultimate joint slightly longer than 

 broad; sides of face bare, at the narrowest part one-third as wide as 

 the median depression; ridges bristly on the lower two-thirds, 

 several yellow bristly hairs outside of them on the lower half of the 

 ridges; cheeks one-third as wide as the eye-height, covered with 

 short yellowish bri.stles. Thorax grayish pollinose, and with four 

 black vittse; four postsutural macrochjette, and four sternopleural; 

 scutellum bearing four pairs of long marginal niacrocha'tje and a 

 short apical pair. Abdomen on bases of last three segments yellow- 

 ish gray pollinose, most extended on the third and fourth; first and 

 second segments each bearing a .marginal [)air of macrochwta', the 

 third and fourth each with a marginal row. Hind til)ia; rather 

 sparsely ciliate with somewhat long bristles. Wings grayish brown, 

 tinged with yellow along the veins of the basal and costal portions; 

 third vein bearing four bristles at its base, the others bare. Length 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 313 



11 mm. Charlotte Hiirbor, Florida. ^Irs. A. T. Slossou, to whom 

 thi^ tlue species id respectfully dedicated. A single specimen. 



Eypostena maculosa n. sp. 9 ■ 



lilack, the front angles of tlie second and third abdominal 

 segments broadly yellow. Front at vertex two-thirds as wide as 

 either eye, vitta brownish, next the antennte one and one-fourth 

 times as wide as either side of the front, the latter light gray polli- 

 nose; two pairs of orbital bristles; frontal bristles descending to base 

 of third antennal joint; antennjc seven-eighths as long as the face, 

 the third joint nearly three times as long as the second, three times 

 as long as witle; arista thickened on the l)asal third; sides of face 

 bare, each at the narrowest part one-tenth as wide as the median 

 depres.sion, face in profile convex; ridges bare; cheeks one-seventh 

 as wide as the eye-height. Thorax bearing only three postsuturnl 

 macrochatif, two sternoi)leural ; scutellum bearing two pairs of long 

 marginal macrocha'tie. Abdomen bearing a marginal pair of 

 macroch:tt;i' on each of the first two segments and a marginal row 

 on the third and fourth. Hind tibiie not ciliate. Wings hyaline, 

 third vein bearing three bristles at the base, the others bare, small 

 cross vein slightly before the middle of the discal cell, hind cross vein 

 n»idway between the latter and the bend which is rounded, apical 

 cross vein slightly arcuate, ending close to the third at a point less 

 than the length of the small cross vein before the tip of the wing. 

 Length 3.5 nun. St. Augusline, Flori<la. C W. Johnson. A 

 single s[)ecimen. 



Myioliia depile n. sp. $ . 



Vrout at vertex less than half as wide as either eye, the vitta 

 brownish bla(;k, next the antennic two-thirds as wide as either side of 

 the front, the latter golden pdllinose; no orbital bristles; frontal 

 bristles descending to ba.se of .second antennal joint, oidy one in each 

 row directed backward; antennic four-fifths as long as the face, 

 yellow, the third joint, except at l)ase, black, two ami one-half times 

 a.s long as the second; arista sh<»rt pilose, thickenefl on its basal fifth; 

 sides of face and the ridg(!S bare; cheeks sliglitly over one-fourth as 

 wide as the eyc-hei'iht. bare ex<ept on lower half; palpi yellow; 

 chivate, one-fourth longer than the antenn;e; proboscis yellow, in the 

 middle brown, slender, rigid, the portion beyond the basal articula- 

 tion imarly as long a.s height of hea«l, label la well developed. 




•H 4 I'HoCKKmNCJS OK THK AC'ADKMY OK [ISJK"). 



'riinnix hlack. yollowisli i^olliiiose, not distinrtly Mack vittii-; three 

 jiDStsutural itiacroclia'tie and three s^ternoplenral ; soutelluni yellow, 

 bearing two lonir marginal ])airs of inacrochietie. Abdomen shining 

 yellow, a black j^pot below the hind angles of the third and fourth 

 segments; a dor>«al vitta and the a[)ex tinged with reddish; llrst 

 segment destitute of dorsal macrochsetie, the second with a niar;jinal 

 pair, third and fourth each with a marginal row. Legs yellow, 

 tai^si black, pulviili as long as the last tarsal joint. Wing.« yellowish 

 hyaline, third vi'iii bearing about five bristles at the base, the others 

 bare; hind cross vein at two-thirds the distance from the small cross- 

 vein to the bentl, which is rounded; costal sj)ine minute. 



9 same as the S with these exceptions: Front three-fourths as 

 wide as either eye, vitta scarcely half as wide as either side of the 

 front, two pairs of orbital bristles, three frontal bristles in each row 

 directed backward, antenuaj three-fourths as long as the face, the third 

 joint twice as long as the second, jxilpi nearly one and one-half times 

 as long as the antennie, pulviili scarcely half as long as the last 

 tarsal joint. 



Length 6.5 mm. Jacksonville (W. H. Ashmead), and Juniper 

 Creek (C. W. Johnson), Florida; and Ithaca, K. Y. (F. H. Chit- 

 tenden). One n)ale and three females. One of the latter has a 

 dorsal black spot at the apex of the second and third abdominal 

 segments. 

 Prosenoides fiavipes n. sp. 9 ■ 



Black, the antenme except at apex, palpi, femora and tibial 

 yellow. Front at vertex nearly as broad as either eye, vitta dark 

 brown, next the antenna yellowish-gray, at this point three-fourths 

 as wide as either side of the front, the latter light gray pollinose; 

 two pairs of orbital bristles; frontal bristles descending to insertion 

 of antennte, two in each row curving backward; antennae three- 

 fourths as long as the face, third joint three times as long as the 

 second; sides of face and the ridges bare, keel in middle of the 

 depression one-half higher than width of third autennal joint; 

 cheeks scarcely one-fifth as broad as the eye-height, liare except 

 on lower edge; j)roboscis slender, rigid, beyond the basal 

 articulation slightly longer than the head and thorax united, 

 label la scarcely thicker than the ])roboscis, paljji clavate, 

 slightly shorter than the antenuai. Thorax marked with 

 three broad, brownish black vittje; three postsutural macrochsetaj, 




1895.] NATCKAL SCIENCF-S OF I'HII.ADKLPHI A. 315 



aud three sternopleural: scutelluni hearing two pairs of Iohl'' marginal 

 niacrochjetie aud a short cruciate apical pair. Abdomen wholly 

 gray poUiuose, with light and olive gray reflections; fir.«t segment 

 destitute of dorsal macroeha^tie, second with a marginal pair, the 

 third aud fourth each with a marginal row. Wings hyaliue, third 

 vein with a few bristles at ba«e, the others bare; costal spine minute, 

 bend of fourth vein with a rounded angle, apical cross vein nearly 

 straight, apical cell open. Pulvilli less than half as long as the last 

 tarsal joint. 



i same as the 9 with the following exceptions: Entire antenna", 

 sides of first two abdominal segments aud front angles of the third, 

 yellow. Front one-third as broad as either eye, no orbital bri.«;tles, 

 oidy one frontal Itristle in each row curving backward, antennie 

 three-fifths as loug as the face, the third joint two and one-half times 

 lis long as the second. 



length 6 to 7.5 mm. Lake Worth and Charlotte Harbor, 

 Florida, Mrs. A. T. Slossou. One male aud three females. 

 Gyznnodezia zonata n. sp. 9 ■ 



HIack, the antennie, anterior portion of the cheeks, palpi, labella, 

 knee.-* and abdomen, yellowish, the latter on sides of first three 

 segments and a dorsal vitta on the same, black. Front at vertex 

 four-fifths as wide as either eye, vitta next the antenniv three-fourths 

 as wide as either side of the front, the latter aud the face whitish 

 p)llinose; two pairs of orbital bristles; frontal bristles de^^<•ending 

 almost to insertion of antenna?, three in each row curving backward; 

 sides of face bare; vibris.«ie inserted almost on the oral margin, two 

 or three short bristles above each; antennie six-sevenths as long as 

 the face, the third joint four times jls long as the seconti, arista loug 

 plumose; cheeks nearly as broad as the eye-height; proboscis roinist, 

 the portion beyond the basal articulation slightly over half as long 

 as height of head. Thorax gray [)<)llinose and marked with four 

 black vitta;; three postsutural and two sternoplcurnl macro<'hatjr; 

 scutellum bearing three long marginal pairs. AI)domen shining 

 exf«pt the ba.ses of the last three segments which are gray iM)llinose, 

 most extended on the sfcond, where it reaches slightly iieyond the 

 middle; first ."egment de."»titut(' of dorsal macrochfeta'. second with a 

 marginal pair, third with a marginal row, the fourth with scatt«Mvd 

 macrochifta'. Wings hyaliue, slightly smoky along the c«).sta and 

 bordering the veins; thirl vein bearing four bristles at the base, the 




•^16 PROCEKDINGS OK THK AC'ADKiMY OF [ISHr). 



otliers hare; cotital spine minute; ciilypteres wliite. Lenirth K.f) mm. 

 Juck^oiiville. Florida. May 22, 18iJ4, C. W. Johnson. A single 

 spei'in)en. 



SARCOPHAGlDiE. 



JOHNSONIA n. gen. 

 First, third and fifth veins hri.stly, hind cross vein perpendicular 

 at two-fii'ths the distance from the small cross vein to the hend, the 

 latter rectangular and hearing a long appendage, apical cell short 

 petiolate. Antennit nearly as long as the face, arista long plumose 

 on the basal three-fifths, the remainder naked ; sides of face hearing 

 short bristly hairs, at narrowest part nearly half as wide as the 

 median depression, the latter not carinate ; ridges bare, straight, 

 diverging below, vil)ri.<Sie strong, widely separated, on the oral mar- 

 gin ; cheeks one-sixth as broad as the eye- height, eyes bare ; proboscis 

 much shorter than height of head, labella large, palpi well-developed. 

 Type, the following species : 



Johnsonia elegans n. sp. 9 



Head black, gray pollinose; front at vertex slightly wider than 

 either eye ; vitta brownish black, next the antennje half as wide as 

 either side of the front; only one pair of orbital l)ristles ; frontal 

 bristles descending to insertion of antenuie, two in each row curving 

 backward ; antenn:e dark brown, more than the basal half of the 

 third joint yellow, this joint twice as long as the second ; longest 

 hairs of arista over twice as long as its greatest diameter ; probo.scis 

 brown, the labella and palpi yellow. Thorax black, gray pollinose, 

 marked with two broad, brownish black vittse ; three postsutural 

 and three sternopleural macrocluetie; scutellum grayish-ldack, bearing 

 two pairs of long marginal macrocluetie. Abdomen shining yellow- 

 ish, the first three segments tinged in the middle with brown and 

 lighily whitish pollinose ; first segment destitute of dorsal macrocha-tie, 

 the second with a marginal pair, the third and fourth each with a 

 marginal row ; genitalia yellow, withdrawn into the fourth abdo- 

 minal segment. Legs, including the cox^e, yellow, tlie tarsi black ; 

 pul villi scarcely half as long as the last tarsal joint, the claws only 

 slightly longer than the pulvilli. Wings grayish hyaline ; first vein 

 l)ri.»tly to Ijeyond the branching of the second and third, the latter 

 bristly to the small cross vein, fifth vein bristly to beyond base of 

 discal cell ; costal spine nearly as long as the small cro.ss vein. 




1895. J NATTKAI. SCIENCES OF PHILAnEI.PHIA. 317 



Length 6 mm. St. Augustine, Florida. C. W. Johnson, after 

 whom it gives me pleasure to name this interesting genus. Described 

 from a single specimen. 



HELICOBIA n. gen. 



First and third veins hristly, the others l)are, apical cell open, end- 

 ing iit three-Htths the distance from second vein to the win^-tip ; bend 

 of fourth vein rectangular and bearing a long appendage; hind cross- 

 vein much le.ss obliijue than the apical, terminating at last third of 

 distance between the small and the bend, its posterior end much 

 nearer the wing-margin than to the small cros-s vein. Head at ihe 

 vibrissa' nearly as long as at insertion of anlenrias its lower margin 

 convex ; frontal bristles descerxling to middle of second anteunal 

 joint; sides of face each bearing a row of short macrocluetic ; antenuie 

 three-fourths as long as the face, the thinl joint twice as long as the 

 second ; arista long plumose on the basal three-tifths. the remainder 

 bare; vibris.sie inserted slightly above the oral margin, a few short 

 bristles al)ove each ; cheeks one-lhird as bn»ad as the eye-height, the 

 eyes bare. Abdomen oval, consisting of four segments, densely gray 

 pollinose. Type: Harcophaya helicix Townsend (Psyche. F'ebruary, 

 1H92, pages 220,221). Charlotte Harbor. Florida (Mrs. A. T. 

 Slosson). Mis.sissippi fH. E. Weed). Illinois (Dr. W. A. ISason). 

 District of Columbia and I.,os Angeles, Cal. ( D. \V. ( otpiillett). 

 Ohio (U. A. Surface). 



Dro2ophila maculosa ii. sp. J . 



Head, including the anteini:e and nioutli parl^, yellow, an ocellar 

 dot and transverse pair of spots above the centre of the occiput, black. 

 Thorax, pleura and scutellum opacpie yellow, unmarked. Abdomen 

 shining l)lackish-l»rown, the first .segment, front corners of the second, 

 and a spot near each frunt corner of the third ami fourth, yellow. 

 I>egs, includint; the tarsi, yellowish white. Wings hyaline, marked 

 with fdur brown sj)ois, one at tips of the Hrst inid second vtins and 

 one on the small and hind cros.s veins, that on the small cross vein less 

 than one-fourth as large :u« I'ithcr of the others: the co.-lnl vein oidy 

 reaclie.'* the aj>ex (A' the third. I>«-!ngth '^ mm. Charlotte Harbor 

 (Mrs. A. T. .Slosson), and Archer. Florida. Two s|iociniens ; the 

 oi»' from tilt' latter locality is contained in the National Mu-ieum 

 collcciii II. 




•>1'^ I'ROCKKDINOS OK THK ACAKKMY OK [IS'Jf) 



Drosophila vittata ii. sp. ^ . 



Ileiul yellowisli white, troutal triiuiffle dark yellow, an ocellar dot 

 1111(1 spot in center of occiput. I)lai'k; antenna' and piolxwis pale 

 yellow, the palpi Mack. Thorax and scutelhwn opa(jue liijlit {rrayish 

 yellow, marked with three dark yellow vittte ; pleura brown on 

 nearly the upper half, the retnainder yellow; nietanotuni yellow, a 

 median vitta and tiie sides brown. Abdomen shining, yellow, Lnadii- 

 ally pa>.sing into dark brown at the tip; a dorsal yellow vitta: bind 

 margin of each segment whitish. Legs, including the cox:c and 

 tarsi, yellow. Wings hyaline; the costal vein reaches the apex of 

 the fourth, first vein ending at first fourth of length of wing, small 

 cross vein before the first third of distance from the branching of the 

 second and third veins to the hind cross vein. I^ength 1.5 mm. 

 Charlotte Harbor, Florida. Mrs. A. T. Slosson. A single 

 specimen. 



Chlorops abdominalis n. sp. ^ . 



Head yellow, face and cheeks usually u lighter yellow, an ocellar 

 dot and two large spots on upper part of the occiput, black; frontal 

 triangle at vertex almost in contact with each eye, the sides converg- 

 ing to lower end of front, indications of a longitudinal median sulcus; 

 antennie reddish yellow, the third joint orbicular, black, except at 

 its base; arista black; clypeus unmarked; proboscis yellow, palpi 

 black. Thorax subshining black, unmarked ; pleura reddish yellow, 

 marked with four black spots; scutellum black, convex; metanotura 

 black mediallv. the sides broadly reddish yellow. Abdomen shining 

 reddish yellow, indications of a black dot near each front corner of 

 the second segment. Legs, including the coxae and tarsi, reddish 

 yellow. Halteres bright yellow, the peduncles dusky. Wings 

 hyaline, hind cross vein nearly twice its length beyond the small 

 cross vein. Length 2.4 to 3 mm. Charlotte Harbor, Florida. 

 Mrs. A. T. Slosson. Two specimens. 



Agromyza terminalis n. sp. J . 



Head black, the broad frontal vitta opaque velvety, a silvery 

 white dot above the anteunte, the latter and the palpi black, pro- 

 boscis yellow. Thorax subshining black, no dorsal macrochieta; in 

 front of the suture; a narrow yellow vitta in front of and below each 

 wing; pleura and scutellum black. Abdomen black, the fifth and 

 following segments, and sometimes the sides and hind margin of the 




1895.] NATl'KAL SCIENCES OF PHII.ADELPHIA. 319 



fourth, grayisii yellow. Legs black, the knees narrowly yellow. 

 Halteres liglit yellow. Wings hyaline, third and fourth vein? slightly 

 diverging toward their apices. Length 2.4 mm. Welaka, Florida, 

 May 9, 1894; and Delaware County, Pa., July 23, 1893. C. W. 

 Johnson. Two specimens. 



LIST OF SPECIES. 



nv C. W. JOHNSON. 



CECIDOMYIDJE. 



DiPi.osis sp. On Oak, Georgiana, Jan. 24. 

 DiiT.fHis -jp. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slossonj. 



MYCETOPHILIDJE. 



Platyl'ra elegans Coq. Georgetown, ^lay 9. 

 Neooi.aphyroptera cinxta Coq. Tick Island, Mny 12. 

 SciAKA sp. (U. vS. Nat. Mus.) 



BIBIONID^. 



HtliU) KUFITlloiiAX Wifd. St. Augustine. The iii<pi.,\ i»i me c 

 i;s black. 



BiBio THOKAciCA Say. East Florida (Say). 



r)n.(jpnrs ouhatcs .Say. St. Augustine; Juiii|)i-r Vo., .\liiy i.»: 

 Invernes.«, Mar. 27 (Robertson); ('harlotte Harbor — exceed- 

 ingly coninion from February to the end of March (Mrs. Slos- 

 bon;. 



I'mx'IA ki:fi(OI.lih Fabr. St. Augustine; Charlotte Harbor, Mar. 

 (Mrs. Slosson); Lake Harney (Mesisrs. Hubbard and Schwarz). 



i'i,E('iA sp. St. Augustine; Drayton Island, May !). 



CULICIDJE. 



Cti.KX T.ENioiiiiVNcilu.s Wied. St. Augustine; Ti(rk Island. Vo- 

 lusia Co., May 12; (yharlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson ■. 

 (ILEX cimatus, Fabr. St. Augustine. 



Cri.F.x r.\«w I ATfH. Fabr. Charlotte Ilarltnr, Mar. (Mrs. Slosson). 

 .\N(ii'in:i.ix < urciANH Wied. Troiddi'.som*^, Tick Island, May 12. 




•5-0 PKOC-KKI»IN<JS OK THK ACAI>KMY OK [189') 



CHIRONOMID^. 



l'niKoNoMr>< NivKii'KNNis, Fahr. Clmrlotle Harbor (Mrs. Slos- 



son ) . 

 ("fmkonomis Kii'AUirs .Mhc(|. Charlotte Harhor (Mrs. Slosson). 

 C'liiiioNOMi's viiUDis Macq. Charlotte Harl)or (Mrs. Slossoii). 

 Chikonomus sp. Georgiaim (Whitfeld). U. S. Nat. Mus. 

 Tanypus THOitACRi's Loew. Tick Island, ^fay 12. 

 Tanyi'US scapulahis Loew. Tick Island, May 12. 

 Tanypus concinnus Coq. Tick Island, May 12. 

 Cehatopogon AK(iENTATU.s Loew. Weluka, May 9. 

 Ceuatopogon albiaria Coq. Drayton Island, May 9. 



TIPULIDJE. 



DiCRANOMYiA FLOiUDAXA 0. S. Spriutjc of 1858 (Osten Sacken). 



Dicraxomyia distans O. S. March, 1858 (Osten Sacken). 



RiirpiDiA domestica O. S. Drayton Island, May 10; Orniond 

 (Mrs. Slosson). 



Erioptera vespertina O. S. 



Gnopiiomyia LUcrruosA O. S. March (Osten Sacken); Jackson- 

 ville, May 22. 



LiMXOPHiLA LUTEiPENNis O. S. March (Osten Sacken). 



LiMXOPHiLA MACROCERA Say. March (Osten Sacken). 



LiMNOPHiEA sp. (Mrs. Slossou.) 



BiTTACOMORPiiA CLAViPES Fahr. March (Osten Sacken). 



TiPULA cosTALis Say. Charlotte Harhor, January (Mre. Slosson). 



TiPULA I'lLiPES Walk. Jacksonville, May 22; Tick Island, May 

 12; Charlotte Harhor (Mrs. Slosson). 



Pachyrrhina FERRUCiiNEA Fahr St. Augustine, March; Char- 

 lotte Harhor (Mrs. Slosson). 



Paciiyrrihxa xobilis Loew. Jacksonville, May 22. 



Pachyrrmina sutukalis Loew. 



XYLOPHAGID^. 



RnAciiicERUS FULVicOLLis Haliday. Tick Island, May 12. 



STRATIOMYID^. 



SARfiUS DECORUB Say. St. Augustine, March 15- 



Sargus TRICOLOR Loew. St. Augustine; Tick Island, March 15. 



SaRGUS ELEGAN8 LoeW. 



Ptecticus sackemi Williston. (Pergande.) 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHII.ADELPHIA. 321 



Hermetia iLLUCENji Liiiiie. St. Augustine; Fernandiiia, pupa. 

 March 23, imago issued May 23 (U. S. Nat. Mus. "i: Lake 

 Worth (Mrs. Slosson). 



Hekmetia sexmaculata Macq. (Mus. Conip. Zoul.) 



Odontomyia cincta Oliv. St. Augustiue, March 15. 



Odontomyia TRiviTTATA Say. St. Augustine (F. H. Genung); 

 Astor, May 11; Orniond, April (Mrs. Slosson j. 



Odontomyia obscura Oliv. St. Augustine ; Charlotte Harhor 

 (Mrs. Slosson). 



Odontomyia elavicornis Oliv. (U. S. Nat. Mus.) 



Stratiomyia r^ENARiA Loew. St. Augustiue. 



Xemotelu8 acutirostris Ijoew. St. Augustiue (F. H. Genung). 



Xemotei.l's c.^RRONARIUS Ijoew. St. Augustine, March ; Char- 

 lotte Harhor CMrs. Slosson). 



Nemoteli'.s immaculate.'^ Johnson. St. Augustine (F. H. Genung). 



N emote LI'S .SLOSSON. K JohusoiL Charlotte Harhor, March /Mrs. 

 Slosson). 



TABANID.7E. 



Chryhops atropos O. S. St. Augustine; Crescent City (Huh- 



hard); Eagle Lake (U. S. Nat. Mus.) 

 CiiRYsops CALLiDUS O. S. St. Augustiue. 

 Ciip.YSOPS KLAVIDUS Wied. St. Augustine; Tutnain Co., .June 



* U. S. Nat. Mus.); Georgiana (Whitleld). 

 CiiKYsoi's .MOi:osrs O. S. Coninion St. Augustine, March 1 ."• • 



(ieorgiana ( Whitf'eld), July 17. 

 Ciii:y«oi*s ENiviTTATis Mactj. (C S. Nat. Mus.) 

 CuRY.soi's PLANCEN.s Wied. (Osten .Sacken. ) 

 CliRYsoi's vi'rr.\TUS Wie<l. Palatka, May H' ; Horse Landing, St. 



.John's River, May 1 7. 

 1)IA( llLoUUs i-i,liRr<iATrs, Falir. St. Augustine; Horse Landing, 



St. John's Kiver, May 17; Hiscayne ; Enterprise, May 25 



fSchwarz), U. S. Nat. Mus. 

 Tahani'h americanu.s Forsler. St. Augustine; Astor, .May 11; 



Indian River (U. S. Nat. Mus.); Tick Island, May 13; ()r- 



inond, April i Mrs. Slosson). 

 Tap.ams ATRATiH Fahr. St. Augustine; Key West, l-'elnuary 7; 



Ft. Capron. July 9. (U. S. Nat. Mus.) 

 Taranis NiGRoviiTATfs Mac<|. St. Augustine. 




322 HUOCEEDINGS OK TlIK ACADK^t Y OF [ISMo. 



Taham's FUscoruNCTATUS Macq. St. Augustine, March; Tick 



Islainl, Muv 12; Georgiann ; Sand Point, March 21. (U. S. 



Nat. Mu?. > 

 Tahants fronto, O. S. St. AuLju.xtine ; (liariotto IIarl)or, Marcli 



( Mrs. Slosson). 

 Tabanis UNEOLA Fabr. St. Augustine ; Georgiaua; AhichuaCo. 



( r. S. Nat. ^lus.) ; Orniond (^Irs. Slosson). 

 Tabanis wiEUEMANNi O. S. St. Augustlne ; Ormond (Mrs. Slos- 

 son): Enterprise. May 17 (Sch\Yarz tS: Huhhard). 

 Tabanus MECiEKLEi Wied. St. Augustine; Eagle Lake (U. S. 



Nat. Mus.) ; Palatka (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Tabanuj! melanocerus Wied. St. Augustine. 

 Tabaxu.S mexicanus Linn. St. Augustine; Georgetown, May 16 ; 



Tick Island, May 13 ; Indiau River (Whitfeld) ; Ormond 



(Mrs. Slosson). 

 Tabanus PUMILU8 Macq. St. Augustine; Orniond (Mrs. Slosson). 



Enterprise, May 11-13 (Schwarz & Hubbard). 

 Tabanus rufus Pal.-Beauv. .St. Ai'gustine ; Tick Island May 12; 



Lake Harney, iSIay 4 (Schwarz & Hubbard). 

 Tabanus tener O. S. Ormond (Mrs. Slosson). Indian River 



(E. Palmer). 

 Tabaxus thijunctu.s Walker. St. Augustine; Ft. Capiou, April 



24 ; Georgiana (Whitfeld). U. S. Nat. Mus. 

 Tabanus costalis Wied. (Mrs. Slosson). Lake Harney, May 5 



(Schwarz & Hubbard). 

 Tabanus molestus. Say. Tick Island, May 12 ; Juniper ('reek, 



May 15. 

 Tabanus giganteus Degeer. (Williston). 

 Tabanus fur Will. (Willistou), 



Tabanus proximis Walk. "Probal)ly described from an unrecog- 

 nizable specimen of some well known species" TOsteu Sacken). 

 Tabanus gracilis Wied. (Williston.) 

 Tabanus turbidus Wied. = ? T. fusconervosus Macq. Walker 



records the latter from Florida. 

 Tabanus pygm.¥;us Will. (Williston). 

 Tabanus coffeatus Mawj. Waldo, June 2 (Messrs. Schwarz & 



Hubbard). 

 Tabanus recedens Walker. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIKNCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323 



Tabanus psammophilus O. S. Lake Worth (Mrs. Slosson). Ft. 

 Capron, April 10 (Messrs. Schwarz ct Hubbard). 



Tabanus LON(ius O. S. Georgiana ( Whitfeldj. U. S. Nat. Mus.; 

 Ft. Capron, March 26 (Messrs. Schwarz & Hubbard ). 



Tabanus stygius, Say. Georgiana, July (Whitfeld). U. S. Nat. 

 Mus. 



Tabanus sparus Whitney. Inverness, March 18-24 (Robertson). 



Tabanus abdominalis Fabr. St. Augustine. 



Tabanus sp. St. Augustine ( F. H. Genung). 



Tabanus sp. Georgiana (Whitfeld). V. S. Nat. Mus. 



Haf.matopota AMERICANA 0. S. ? Cresceut City, June (Hub- 

 bard;. U. S. Nat. Mus. 



LEPTID^. 



CiiKYSopiLA VKLUTiNA Loew, St. Augustine, March 15. 

 Chrysopii.a basai.aris Say. St. Augustine, March 15; Char- 

 lotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Lkitis albicornis Say. St. Augustine, March l.'j. 

 Lki-ffs vertebkata Say. 



ASILIDjE. 



Lkitocaster obscuripknnis Johnson. St. Augustine. 



( KRATURCiUs CRUCIATUS Say. Ornioud, April (Mrs. Slosson). 



DrzoNiAs TRisTis Walker. (D. bicincta I^oew.) St. Augustine; 



Georgiana (Whitfeld>; Enterprise, May 15. (U.S. Nat. Mus.) 

 Ani>^op(k;on SENILIS Higot. (Morrison). Coquillett. 

 Lai'IIYstia se.xiasciata Say. St. Augustine. Common along 



the seashore, June, July. 

 ( 'yktoi'<>(;(»n ciiKYsopocoN Ix)ew. (Morrison). Coquillett. 

 Holcocepiiai.a ahiximinai.is Say. C<iiiini()n St. Augustine; Jiini- 



|>f'r Creek, May 15. 

 HoLcoci-.riiALA <'ALVA I»ew. Seven .■.p«'ciriiciis. Jiiiiipcr ( 'reek, 



May 15. 

 r Ai'.Ai'ncus o(-n»pi'N(TATUs Say. i .M'»rri>(»ii ). ('(XjuilJett. 

 IIi)i.or»>(;oN riiiLAHELiiiicus S<;hin. Onnoml. April i Mrs. Slos- 



8»n). 

 NlfOULEs pKTUs I>«>e\v. St. AiigU!<tiiie. 

 .Atomosia puei.i.a Wied. rnlHlka. .May 1 f>. 

 I>i;h<iMVIA TEKNATUs L'M'W. St. Augustine. 




324 PROCEKOINOS OK TIIK ACAI'ICMY «)K [1895. 



Deromyia bi({<»tii Hc'llanli. St. Autriistine; Onnoiid, June (Mrs 



Slosson\ 

 Deromyia winthemi Wied. (D. miselhis Ivoew. ) (U. H. Nat. 



MU9.) 



Deromyia sp. (U. S. Nat. Mas.) 



Deromyia sp. (U. S. Nat. Mus.) 



Dasyi-lis tergirsa Say. Tampa, March (Mrs. Slo.«son). 



Dasyllis rosTlCATA Say. Jacksonville, April (Mra. Slossou). 



Lai'HRIA saffrana Fabr. St. Augustine; Sand Point, May 3. 

 (l*. S. Nat. Mus. ) Charlotte Harhor, March, and Pensacola, 

 April (Mrs. SlossonJ. 



Lampria bicolor Wied. Orniond (Mrs. Slosson). 



Promachl's fitchii O. S. St. Augustine. 



ANDKEN080MA PYRKHACRA Wied. (U. S. Nat. Mus.) Georgiana 

 (Whitfeld) ; Ormond, June (Mrs. Slgsson). 



Mali.ophora BOMBOiDiiS. St. Augustine. 



Mallopiiora nigra Will. St. Augustine. 



Mallophora orcina Wied. St. Augustioe, May 20 ; Palatka, 

 May 19; Crescent City (Hubbard). 



Mallopiiora laphroides Wied. St. Augustine (F. H. Genung;. 



Erax cinerascens Bell. St. Augustine. Lake Worth, on the 

 white sand of the ocean beach (Mrs. Slosson). 



Erax lateralis Macq. St. Augustine, May 20 ; Volusia, May 

 11 and 14. 



Erax bastardi Macq. (U. S. Nat. Mus.) 



Erax sp. St. Augustine. 



Proctacanthus herds Wied. St. Augustine; Georgiana (Whit- 

 feld) U. S. Nat. Mus. 



Proctacanthus brevipennis Wied. Common St. Augustine; Or- 

 mond, Charlotte Harbor and Pensacola (Mrs. Slosson); Cedar 

 Key.«, June 7 (U. S. Nat. Mus.) 



Proctacanthus fulviventris Macq. Georgiana (U. S. Nat. 

 Mus. ) 



Proctacanthus philadelphicus Macq. Georgiana (U. S. Nat. 

 Mus.) 



AsiLUS NOV^.-scoTiiE Macq. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slossou.) 



AsiLUS auratus Johnson. St. Augustine, May 21 ; Palatka, May 19. 



Ommatius tibialls Say. St. Augustine, May 21 ; Georgetown, 

 May 15; Georgiana, July 15 (Whitfeld.) 




1895.] NATL'RAI. SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 325 



MIDAID^. 



Midas clavatus Drury. St. Augustine; Astor, May 11. 



Mii>AS INCISL'S Macq. St. Augustine ( <? ), Crescent City (Hub- 

 bard), U. S. Nat. Mus. 



Midas pachygaster Westwood. St. Augustine (9). This is 

 probably the $ of M. iiin.tus. 



Midas parvulus Westwood. (Georgia (Westwood), Florida 

 ( Walker ). 



Midas sp. (U. S. Nat. Museum.) 



Midas sp. (U. S. Nat. Museum.) 



Midas sp. (U. S. Nat. Museum.) 



Midas sp. (U. S. Nat. Museum.) 



DOLICHOGASTER BREVICORNIS Wied., var. lOPTERUS (Wied.j O. 



S. "St. John's Bluff, Doubleday" (Walker.) 



NEMESTRINID^. 

 RiivNcHocEPHALUS voi.ATU'LS Wi|]i.>iton. St. Augustine. 



HiKMONKURA FLAVIPES Willist(^n. 



BOMBYLID.^. 



Ex<>pK(»soi'A KHK.MiTA U.S. St. Augustiup f F. n. Genung); Lake 



Worth (Mrs. Slosson.) 

 Exoi'RosoPA FAS<li'K.\Nis Say. St. Augustine; Mt. Royal, May 



17; Lake Wdrth (Mrs. Shtsson. ) 

 ExopROsoPA FA.sciATA Maci]. St. Augustine; Ormoiid, June 



^Mrs. Slosson. j 

 Exoi'KosDPA KMARdiNATA Macq. Lake Worth (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Aroyram<eba ANALis Say. St. Augustine, May 21. 

 .\R(;vRAMfEHA cKPHUs Fabr. Two s[)eciiiiens, St. Augustine. 

 .\i:<iYK.v.M<KiJA HiM.soN Fabr. St. Augustine (F, H. (Jenung.) 

 Ak(;yram«eba m.matii.a Say. Lake Worth (Mrs. Slosson.) 

 Ar<;yi:a.mikha .m.hofa.^xiata Macq. I.<ake Worth (Mrs. Slo.ssoo.) 

 Apj;ykam<ki5a i.atii.i.mhata liigot. St. Augustine. 

 .\R(iYKAM<KMA <KD!PUs Fabr. (U. S. Nat. .Mus. ); (Mrs. Sloeson); 



Orlando, .March 20 ( Kol)ert.son. ) 

 .Vi:(iYKA.M(Ei!A AU<iYKorY(;A Wied, (U. S. Nat. .Mus.) 

 .\Nrm:AX ( Dipai.ta) serpentina O. S; St. Augustine. 

 Antiikax ( Hkmipkntiieh) .minioma Wie<l. St. Augustine. 

 .Vnthrax ( He.mii'ENtiiksj morio Linn^. Suwannee (Mrs. Slosuon.) 




326 l'KOCKEI>IN(iS «>1- TIIK AIADKMV OK [1895. 



Anthrax ai.tkknata Say. (Mrs. Slossoii. ) 



Anthrax lateralis Say. St. Augustine: Inverness, February 



11 -March 81 (Robertson.) 

 ANTiiRAX AGRirpiNA O. S. Suwaniiee (Mrs. Slosson.) 

 Anthrax faunus Fabr. St. Augustine. 

 Anthrax tegminipennis Say. Ormond ; JacksouvilU'. April 



(Mrs. Slosson.) 

 Anthrax dispar Coq. St. Augustine (F. H. Genung.) 

 Anthrax fulvohirta Wied. St. Augustine, May 20; Lake 



Worth (Mi-s. Slosson.) 

 Anthrax celer Wied. St. Augustine. Syn., .4. jioridana Macq. 



(Coquillett. ) 

 Anthrax lucifer Fabr. Suwannee (Mrs. Slosson); Key West 



(U. S. Nat. Mus.); Inverness, March 2-April 4 (Robertson.) 

 Anthrax mira Coq. St. Augustine (F. H. Genung.) 

 Anthrax ceyx Loew. (S}'!!.? A. demo(f on/on Walker.) 

 Oncodocera leucoprocta Wied. Suwannee (Mrs. Slosson.) 

 BoMBYLius MEXiCANUs Wied. (Mrs. Slosson.) 

 BoMBYLius VARius Fabr. (Morrison) Coquillett. 

 BoMHYLius atriceps Locw. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson) ; 



Inverness, March 10-27 (Robertson.) 

 BoMBYLius lancifer 0. S. (Morrison) Coquillett. 

 BoMBYLius fratellus Wied. (B. major Linne) (U. S. Nat. Mus.) 

 BoMBYLius pygmaeus Fabr. (Morrison) Coquillett. 

 Systcechus solitus Walk. St. Augustine, common, May 21; 



Suwannee, April; Lake Worth (Mrs. Slosson.) 

 ToxopiiORA amphitea Walker. St. Augustine; Ormond (Mrs. 



Slosson); Georgiana, July (Whitfeld); Inverness, March 5-26; 



Orlando, February 17 (Robertson.) 

 ToxoPHORA fulva O. S. (U. S. Nat. Mus. ) 

 Toxophora virgata O. S. Inverness, March 22 (Robertson.; 

 Phthiria punctipennis Walker. St. Augustine. 

 Phthiria sulphurea Loew. St. Augustine (F. H. Genung); 



Georgett)wn, May 16; Crescent City (Hubbard.) 

 Systropus macer Loew. Georgiana (Whitfeld.) 

 Geron sp. (U. S. Nat. Mus. ) 

 Lepidophora ^geriiformis Westw. Georgiana ( Whitfeld; U. 



S. Nat. Mus. 




1895.] NATLRAI. SCIKNCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 327 



THEREVID^. 



PsiLOCEPHALA HiEMORRHOiDALis Macq. Oriuoud, April (Mrs. 

 Slosson.) 



PsiLOCEPHALA FE.STiN'A Coq. St. Augustiue, March 15; Drayton 

 Islaud, May 9; Ormond (Mi's. Slossou); Georgiana, July 

 ( Whitfeld. ) 



PsiLOCEPHALA NOTATA Wicd. St. Augustiiie, March 14; Ormoud, 

 April (Mrs. Slosson.) 



PfiiLOCEPHALA TERGis.'JA Say. St. Augustiue, March 15; Or- 

 mond, April (Mrs. Slosson.) 



PsiLOCEPHALA JOHXSONi Coq. St. Augustinc, March 15; Or- 

 mond, April (Mrs. Slosson.) 



PsiL«)CEPHALA Oft^cuRA Coq. Key West, February 5 (U. S. Nat. 

 Mu8. ) 



PsiLOCEPHALA PicriPENXis Wied. St. Augustiue ; Drayton, Island 

 and Welaka, May 9; Crescent City (Hubbard) U. S. Nat. Mus. 



PsiLOCEPHALA I'LACiDA Coq. (U. S. Nat. Mus.) 



PsiLOCEPHALA MAKMORATA Coq. St. AugUStine. 

 PsiLOCEPHALA MARCIDA Coq. ( U. S. Nat. MuS.) 



Tin.KEVA DivERSA Coq. (U. S. Mat. Mus.) 



SCENOPINID^. 

 ScENopiMs NiBiLii'Es Say. (Loew. ) 



EMPIDiE. 



Hyisos triplex Walker. ( iiarlottc Harbor, March (Mrs. SIos- 



.son.) 

 EniYHim 8UBJECTIS Walker. St. Augustine; C'harlotte Harbor 



( Mrs. Slos.s<)n. » 

 Synec Hi> sLMPLEX Walker. Charlotte Harbor ( Mrs. Sios.H<jn.) 

 Syneche-m pusiLLi- Loew. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson.) 

 HiLAP.A LECcoiTEitA Loew. (charlotte Harbor ( Mrs. SlossoH. ) 

 HiiMElcoDiioMlA sci'EKsTITlosA Say. Dravtou Island, .May 9. 



DOLICHOPODIDiE. 



I)oLH iKipis LoMiipiANi- I»e\v. (Aldricli. ) 

 Doi.K iiiipi s iiu:\si> Walker. 



* Tlic nt'w iiiid uiidftcrtniiKMl Hpcch'S of thin fiiniily will Im> deiK'ril>cd later 

 bv I'n.f. .1. M. Aldrich. 




328 PKOCEEDINGS OF TIIK ACAOKMY <.)F [1895. 



DoLicHorrs latu(>1{Nis Loew. Lake Worth, Mairli (Mrs. Slos- 

 sou.) 



DoLirnoiTs sp. 9 ''^t. Auf^ustine (Alilricli, Kau. Univ. Quar- 

 terly, II. 8. ) 



GYMXom'ERNis DEHiLis Loew, (AUlrich.) 



Gymnoiteunus difficims Loew. St. Augustine. 



Paraclinus sp. Lake Worth (Mrs. Shjsson.) 



Par.\clixub sp, Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson.) 



Pelastoneurus cognatus Loew. St. Augustine, March 14. 



Pelastoneurus abbreviatus Loew. St. Augustine, March. 



Pelastoneurus n, sp. St. Augustine, March 15. 



Pelastoneurus sp. St. Augustine; Orraond (Mrs. Slosson.) 



Pelastoneurus sp. St. Augustine ; Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slos- 

 son.) 



Tachytrechus n. sp. (Aldrich.) 



DiosTRACUS sp. St. Augustine, May 21. 



Argyra n. sp. (AUlrich.) 



DiAPHORUS MUNDUS Loew. Drayton Island, May 10; Charlotte 

 Harbor (Mrs. Slosson.) 



DiAPHORUS leucostomus Loew. Charlotte Harbor, February 

 (Mrs. Slosson.) 



AsYXDETUs n. sp. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson.) 



Chrysotus costalis Loew. (Loew. ) 



Chrysotus sp. Juniper Creek, May 15. 



Chrysotus sp. Juniper Creek, May 15. 



Campsicnemus hirtipes Loew. St. Augustine. 



Plagioneurus univittatus Loew. Lake Worth (Mrs. Slosson.) 



Medeterus nigripes Loew. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson,) 



Medeterus veles Loew. (Loew.) 



Saucropus dimidiatus Loew. (Loew.) 



Saucropus superbiens Loew. (Loew.) 



PsiLopus ciliatus Loew. St. Augustine; Lake Worth and Char- 

 lotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson.) 



PsiLOPUS chrysoprasius Walker. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slos- 

 son.) 



PsiLOPUS caudatulus Loew. Volusia, May 11, Palatka, May 15' 

 Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson.) 



Philopus comatus Ivoew. Volusia, May 11. 



PsiLOPUS sipno Say. Volusia. May 11; Palatka, May 19. 




1895.] NATl'KAL SCIENCKS OF PHIJ.ADKI.PHIA. 329 



PsiLOPUS n. sp. Lake Worth (Mrs. Slosson. ) 



Gnamptopsilopus VARiEGATis Loew. St. Augustine; Welaka, 



May 9; Palatka, May 19. 

 GxAMFTOPsiLOPis psiTrAciNT's Locw. St. * Au^ustine ; Lake 



Worth, January (Mrs, Slosson. ) 

 Da(tylomyia gracilipbs Aklr. 



SYRPHIDJE. 



MicKonoN PACHYSTYLi'M Will. St. Augustine. 



MicKODON FULOENS Wieil. St. Augustine, jnipie found in decayed 



pine logs; »Su\vannee (Mrs. Slosson). 

 MiCRODON FUSCIPENXIS Macq. Georgiaiui, July 17 (Whitfeldj. 

 MicRODON LiMBUs Will. ( U. S. Nat. Mus.; 

 Mi( RoDoN s( rrii>is Will. ( U. S. Nat. Mas.) 

 O.MEGASYRPHUS HAl.I()PTI•:KU^< Loew. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. 



Slosson ). 

 O.MK(iAHYRP^^u^^ fOARCTATUS Loew. Orlando, March 16 (Robert- 

 son). 

 P.VRACUS Til'.lAl.ls Falli-n. St. Augustine, May 21; Palatka, 



May 19. 

 Pipi/.A pri,( iiKi.i.A Will. St. Augustine, March 15; Lake Worth 



(Mrs. Slos.sonj. 

 PsiLOTA BA(('ATA Mac<i. Inverness, Feb. 8-12 (Robertson). 

 (Jhkyhoo ASTER NiTil>A Wied. St. Augustine; Tick Island. May 



12; Orlando, May 16; Inverness, Feb. 14 (Robertson;. 

 Mi>o(;UAM.MA poLiTi.M Say. St. Augustine. 

 Mi-fiOGRAM.MA PARVULA Ivoew. St. Augustine, May 20. 

 Mi^JiOiJRAMMA .MAR(iiNATi'.M Say. St. Augustine, May 2; Oihiudo, 



Feb. 21; Inverness, March 9 (Robertson). 

 MixjiiRA.M.MA HOs*< 11 Mac(|. St. Augustinc; Charlotte Harbor, Feb. 



(Mrs. Slosson); Orlando, March 1"); Inverness, Feb. 29 



(Robert.xon;. 

 Mi-XMiRAMMA pi,anivi:nti'.!s Ivoew. St. Augustine, May 20. 

 .Vl.i-OiJRAiTA oitLK^CA Say. Inverne.«s, Feb. 12, March 12 



( Robertson). 



XaNTHOCJRAM.MA E.MAR(ilNATA Say. 



Svi'.i'ms AMKUKANis Wied. Lukt! Worth (.Mrs. Slosscm); 

 Orlando, Feb. 21; Inverness, Feb. 12 ( Robert-son;. 




330 PKOCEEniNGS OK THK ACAOEMY OF [1895. 



Baccha ri.AVATA Fahr. St. AiiLfnstiius Muy 21; Lake Worth 



(Mrs. Slossuii); Crescent City (Hul)l)ar(l); Orlando, Feb. 17 



(Rol>ertaon). 

 Ba(CHA notata Loew. Charlotte Harltor (Mrs. Slo.s8on). 

 Bacoha rAKciiKTii-.s Walker. Oriautlo, March 16; Inverues-s, 



March 26 (Robertson). 

 Ba« ciiA Lie iKN.s Loew. Crescent City (Hubbard). U. S. Nat. Mus. 

 OiYi»TAMrs FrstiPKNNis Say. St. Augii.stiue, March 15, May 20; 



Palatka and Crescent City (U. S. Nat. Mus.). 

 Voi-UCKLLA icsuRiAXs Fabr. St. Augustine ; Georgiana (Wliit- 



feld); Lake Worth and Charlotte Harbor, Feb. -Apr. (Mrs. 



Slosson); Key West, Feb. 7 (U. S. Nat. Mus.). 

 VoLurELLA FALLENS Wied. ( V. sexj)in)cfat(i Lw.) St. Augustine, 



March 15; Georgiana, July (Whitfeld); Lake Worth (U. S. 



Nat. Mus.); Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson); Inverness, 



Fel)ruary 12 (Robertson). 

 VoLucELLA PUSiLLA Macq. Common, St. Augustine, March 15, 



May 21; Georgiana, July (Whitfeld). 

 VoLUCELLA FAS( lATA Macq. (Mrs. Slosson), Inverness, February 



3, March 24 (Robertson). 



VOLUCELLA EUGENIA Will. (Williston.) 



VoLUCELLA VESICULOSA Fabr. (Williston). Inverness, March 



19 (Robertson). 

 VoLucELLA OBE8A Fabr. (Osteu Sacken. ) 

 Eristalis dimidiatus Wied. St. Augustine. 

 Eristalis transversus Wied. St. Augustine, March 15; 



Inverness, March 14 (Robertson. 

 Eristalls vinetorum Fabr. St. Augustine; Lake Worth (Mrs. 



Slosson). 

 Eristalis ALBiFRONS Wied. (E. a/biceps Macq.) St. Augustine. 



(F. H. Genung); Orlando, February 21 (Robertson); Lake 



Worth and Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson); Georgiana 



(Whitfeld). 

 Meromacrus crucigerus Wied. St. Augu.sitine; Juniper Creek, 



May 15; Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slos.son). 

 Mallota cimbiciformis Fall. Inverness, February 12 TRobert- 



sou). 

 Helophilus similis Macq. St. Augustine; Inverness, February 



12 (Robertson). 




1895.] NATIKAI. SCIENCKS OF PHILADELPHIA. 331 



Helophilus Divisi'S Loew. Orlando, February 22 ( Rol)ertson). 

 Tropidia albistylum MacMj. Lake Worth and Charlotte Harbor 



(Mrs. Slossou); Iuverne.«3, February 5 f Robertson). 

 Xylota Ejr>-cii)A Say. St. Augustine; Charlotte Harbor. March 



(Mrs. Slosson). 

 Xylota pi(;ra Fabr. (Mrs. Slosson); Inverness. Fe])ruary 8, 



March 25 ( Robertson). 

 Spilomyia hamifkra Ijoew. St. Augustine; Inverness. March 5 



C Robertson). 

 MiLFXiA ORNATA Fabr. St. Augustine; Jacksonville, May 22; 



Juniper Creek, May 15; Inverness, March 12, April 5 



(Robertson); Ormond (Mrs. Slossou); Georgiana (Whitfeld). 

 Ckria abbreviata I^ew. 

 Ceria signifera Loew. Inverness. February 12. 14 i Rol)ertson). 



CONOPID^. 



CoNoi-s BiLBiRosTHis Loew. St. Augustiue. 



CONDI'S BRACHYitiiYNCHi'.s Macq. (C obscurlpeiDus Will.) St. 



Augustine. 

 Pnvs()( Ei'iiALA EX( ISIS Wied. St. Augustine; Crescent City, July 



2 (Hubl)ard); Inverness, March 18 (Robertson); Charlotte 



Harbor and Pensacola, March and April (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Physockphala cAs'iANoiTERA Loew. St. Augustine. 

 Phywkephala SAOirrARiA Say. ( U. S. Nat. Mus. i; Inverness, 



P^ebruary fS (Robertson). 

 I'iiv-<i< EI'IIALA TIBIALIS Say. (MorHson » Co<iuillett. 

 Z<)i»i()N FiLViFKoNs Say. Lake \\'i)rth and Oniioiid, March (Mrs. 



Slos.«(-»n ). 

 ZoidoN NANKLLi M Ljcw. Invemes.*. February !> ( Robert8<jn ). 

 I)almania \ niosA ( 'o<|. Inverness, March 25 i Robertson ). 



PIPUNCULIDiE. 

 l'i:<iTin;< iir< latlkai.i- Walk. .>t. .Angusiinc 



OESTRID^. 



CiTLiiLiti'.A HI ( I A I A Fal»r. St. Augustine. 

 ClTERLBKA (IMMLI (lark? St. AugiiHtiiie. 



TACHINIDiE. 



Tun iioi'oKA ( ILIATA Fabr. i T. pr mi if ha j-'iibr. i St. .\ ugii.siine; 

 Charlotte Harbor iMi>. Sl«)s«on /. 




•^•^- PROCKKDINGS OF TH K ACAr)KMY OF [1895. 



Tku HoiHUi.v F()KMt)SA Wicd. St. A iij^ustiiie. 



TKicHoriiDA i.ANii'Rs Fiibr. St. Auj^ustine. 



Tkk nci'ODA I'YKUHoGAsTKK Wietl Georgiaiia, July (Whitfeld). 



TiU( iioroDA HisTUK) Walker. (T. frifim-inin Loew. ) Inverness, 

 March 18 (Robertson). 



Xanthomklan'a atripennis Say. St. Augustine; Inverness, 

 February 11 (Robertson). 



OcYlTERA EUCHENOR Walker. Inverness, March 18 (Rol)ertS()n). 



JiRiNiA sMARA(;i)iNA Macq. Lake Worth (Mrs. Slossou) ; Inver- 

 ness, February 8, March 22 (Robertson). 



Jl'RixiA KLAViFRON« JitHinick. (Mr.s. Slosson). 



Ji'RiNiA HYSTRix Fubr. Lake Worth (Mrs. Slossou). 



Archytas boscii Desv. St. Augustine. 



Arc'hytas aterrima Desv. St. Augustine. 



Belvosia bifasciata Fabr. St. Augustine. 



Belvosia slosson^e Coq. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson). 



Thysaxomyia INERMI8 Bigot. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson). 



GrONiA sp. Inverness, March 9-29 (Robertson). 



MiltO(;ramma cixerascexs Town. ? Inverness, March 20 

 (Robertson). 



Milto(;ramma decisa Town. Inverness, March 10-lH (Robert- 

 son). 



MrLTOt4RAMMA argextifrons Town. Orlando, March 16; Inver- 

 ne-ss, March 18 f Robertson). 



MiLTCKiRAMMA TRILINEATA v. d. Wulp. Iiiveruess, February 16, 

 March 10 (Robertson). 



Masicera PROTOPARcisTown. ? Inverness, March 20 (Robertson), 



Masuera hodalis v. d. Wulp. Ormond (Mrs. Slosson). 



Mash ERA demy lis Walk. (Mrs. Slosson). 



Gymnoi'rosopa polita Town. Inverness, March 1-22 (Robert- 

 s«»n). 



Gymnoprosopa ARiiENTiFRONs Towu. luvemess, March 1-22 

 i Roliertson). 



Bka( iiycoma sp. Inverness, February 12, March 24 (Robertson). 



PiioROCERA EDWARDsii Will. Invemess, March 18 fRol)ertson), 



PiioRocERA sp. Inverness, March 24 (Robertson). 



PlA(;iprospherysa fi.oridkxsis Town. Inverness, February 12, 

 March 21 (Robertson). 



ExoRiKfA sp. Orlando, March 16 (Robertson). 




1895.] NATIKAL .SCIKNCES OK Pnil.ADKI.FHIA. '^38 



Cli.>^ta AMERICANA Tuwii. St. Augustiiie, May 21. 

 Carcelia leucani.e Kirk. St. Augustine; Georgetowu, May 10. 

 (l^.STROPHA.'iiA CLAUSA B. it B. Ormond (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Pha.<u»itervx hflimeki B. ct B. Georgiaua ( U. S. Nat. Mus. ). 

 PsEiJDucii.tTA AKGEXTiFRoNs ("oq. Charlotte Harbor i Mrs. 



Slos.son ). 

 T.\(HINA oKCJYI.K Ti>wn. (Mrs. Slo.sson.) 

 Ta« iiiNA MEiA)B<)sis Walk. (Walker.) 

 MasII'HYA AIRIGERA Coq. (Mrs. Siossou. ) 

 Ci.YTioMYiA rrx<TATA Cofj. Charlotte Hariior (Mrs. Slos^(lIl). 

 AcH.ETONKiUA KlBENTls Coq. Jacksonville ( W. H. Ashniead). 



Acll-ETONKIKA AKMIGEUA Coq. OnilOMil (Mrs. SlosSOn.) 



CH.*yr<»(;i.o.>N>^A vi»»l.k Town. Invcmes-s FeWruary 1(3 to March 26 

 ( Kol)ert.<on i. 



Ch..ETOGLOs.<a I'KTK ()RNI> Town. Iiivtrness. Fel)nary Ititit Ajiril 

 4 (Robertson). 



CH.t:T()<JL<)ssA NIGKll'ALi'ls Town. Invemes.*, February 2."5 (Rol)- 

 ertsoii '. 



AcKiKii.ossA HEsi'ERrDARiM Will. Inverness, March 10, 22 

 ('Kobert.«<in ). 



SirifoNA ii,i,iN(m;n<h Town. Inverness, February 12, March 22 

 (Kobertson i. 



Phasioci.ista .metallica Town. <)rlan«lo, Inverness, March 15-22 

 (Rol)ertson). 



SiFHCMLYTIA ROHERTsoNii Town. Inverness. March l.':»-27 ( Kobert- 

 son i. 



Atroimkii'oda •<lN(sl'LAKrs Town. Inverness, March 1 (Kobert- 

 son). 



I-^>E\viA (JLOBosA Town. Inverne.^.x, March .'i-20 ( Kobertson ■. 



SlPHorHYTo Kf.oiilDENsis Town. Inverne-<. Manh 1-2!' (Kobert- 

 son ). 



Tachinoi'IIYTk ri.oKlDKN.'^ls Town. Inv(M-ne>s, March 1-27 

 (Robertson ). 



Atropiuh'AI.its ANCsr.snroUMs Town. Inverness. March .'.-U* 

 ( Robert.^on i. 



PsEriMt.MYitTHYRlA lNin:(i>^A Town. Inverness, MmicIi o-Io 5 

 I Rol>ert.son ;. 



Myothyp.ia vandkp.wi i.pi Town. Invernes.'*, February 12 Kob- 

 ert.<»on ). 




'>"^4 PR()CKK1>IN(}S OK THK ACADKMV OK [1895. 



I'AlIIYorHTHAI.MlS KI.OKlDr.NSIS Towii. ( I{()l)ertSUIl ). 

 PACHYOI'MTHALMrs TKY I'OXYLONIS ToWU. OrmOIld ( MfS. SloSSOD). 

 TArniNuMYIA KI-ORIDENSIS Towii. St. Aiigustiiie. 

 Ptii-och-kta sp. (Mrs. Slossoii. » 



Sak( ()TA( niNELLA INTKKMEDIA Towii. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. 

 Slossou ). 



Sl'AI.LANZANMA PANSA SllOVV. St. AuirUStilie. 



DiXiKKRiA LErcocYCLA V. il. Wulp. St. Augustiiie ; Tick Island, 



May 12. 

 AtKMYiA DENTATA Co(j. Georgetown, May 10. 

 Sariomackonychia flokidensis Town. Inverness, Mart-li 1-19 



I Robertson). 

 Hyi'o^tena maculosa Coq. St. Augustine. 



DEXID^. 



Gymnodexia TRIANGULARIS V. d. Wulp. J uiiiper Cr. , May 15. 



Gymnodexia zonata Coq. Jacksonville, May 22. 



Leitoda vertehrata Say. Ornioiid ; Tampa (Mrs. Slosson). 



EuAXTHA DIVES Wied. St. Augustine. 



Prosenoides flavipes Coq. Lake Worth ; Ciiarlotte Harbor 

 (Mi*s. Slosson j. 



Myobia defile Coq. Juniper Creek, May 15 ; Jacksonville (Ash- 

 mead ;. 



SARCOPHAGID^. 



Saruophaga fulvipes Walker. St. Augustine. 

 Sarcophaga .s:gra Walker. Lake Worth (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Sarcophaga anxia Walker. fMrs. SIossoil) 

 Sarcophaga cimbicis Town. Lake Worth (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Sarcophaga sarracexle Riley. Orniond ; Charlotte Harl)or 



(Mrs. Slosson). 

 Sarcophaga assidua Walker. St. Augustine, March ; Palatka» 



May 19. 

 Sarcophaga, s|). Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Sarothromyia femoralis Schin. Lake Worth. 

 Johnsoxia eleoaxs Coq. St. Augustine. 

 MicROCHiKTixA ciXEREA V. d. Wulp. Ormoud (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Helicobia HELici.-i, Town. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Helicobia sp. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson). 




1895.] NATL'KAL SCIKNCKS OF PHII.ADKI.FH I A. 385 



MUSCID^. 



Stomoxys calcitkans Liuiie. .St. Augustine ; Lake Worth i Mrs. 



Slossou ). 

 Calliphora erythrocephala Meig. St. Augustine. 

 Calliphora VIRIDE.SCEN8 R. Desv. (Walker.) 

 Mui^cA DOME.*!Ti<'A Liune. St. Augustine ; Inverness (Robertson). 

 LuciLiA CE-SAR Linn6. St. Augustine; Orraoud, Marcli, April 



(Mrs. Slossunj. 

 LuciLlA ("ORNKINA Fal)r. St. Augustine; Ormoud, March, April 



(Mrs. Slossou I ; Orlando, March 15 ( Roltertson ). 

 LuciLiA sERic.\TA Meig. Orlando, March 16 (Robertson;. 

 Chrysomyia tertima Walker. 

 CoMPsoMYiA MA( ei.i.aria Fahr. St. Augustine; Orlando and Iii- 



verues.s, March 10-16 (Robertson). 

 Syntiiej^iomyia brasiliana B. & B. In a cave, Citrus ( o. ■ H. 



G. Hubbard). 



ANTHOMYID^. 



Ophyra AKNESfENs Wied. St. AugusJtiiie. March; Charutttt' Har- 

 bor (Mrs. Sloss(»nj ; Volusia and Juniper Creek, May 14, 15. 

 Leicomei.ixa (JARRii.A Giglio-Tos. St. Augustine, March; Invcr- 



ne.ss, February 29 (Robertson); Charlotte Harbor i Mrs. Slos- 



i'on). 

 LiMNoPHoRA sp. Orlauilo, March 15 (Robertson). 

 Homai.omyia fkmokata lAtew. St. John's River, May. These 



were bred in large numbers from the dead fresh water shells 



after my return homo. 

 I^i--i'i: ri.iciNosA Fallen. St. Augustine. March; (icorgi-lown. .May 



9 ; Ormond ( Mrs. Slossou >. 

 CAiiUKA ANTKA Walk. St. Augustine, March; Drayton Island. 



.May 9; Inverness, February ( liobert.son i. 

 Caricea hoi.ita Walk. St. .\ugu8tine, March. Ormond i .Mrs. 



Slosson ). 

 Carmea Fl'MoprN<TATA Muccj. St. A ugustiiic, .March; Inverness, 



February ( Kobert.son > ; St. John's River, May 17; Charlotte 



Harbor (Mr<. Slcjsson ;. 

 Cakh i:a mvka I^oew. St, Augustine. March; Inverne.ss, February 



' Robcrt.<»<)u I. 

 (Venusi A LATA Walk. Mrs. S|o*»son). 




•^•'^♦^ nUKKRDlNGS <»!•• TIIK ACADIOMY OK [1895. 



('(KNosiA sp. Charlotte Iliirhor iMrs. Slossoii). 

 C'lroKTormi.A sp. Inveriies.*, Fel)riiary 14 ( Kobertaon). 

 CiioinoniiiA .sp. Inverness, February 12 (Robertson). 

 Phokiua irs( k kps Zett. St. Augustine ; Orlando, March ( Koi)ert- 



son ). 

 Antiiomyia nai{()Na Walk. 



CORDYLURID^. 



Cleigastra capillata Leow. St. Augustine. 

 FrcELLiA FUCORUM Fallen. St. Augustine, March ; Charlotte 

 Ha''bor, February (Mrs. Slosson). 



SCIOMYZID-ffi. 



ScK^MVZA NANA FuUeu. St. Augustine ; Ornioud, January (Mrs, 



Slos.xon ). 

 SiioMYZA HUMiLis Loew. St. Augustine, March 15. 

 Tktaxocera spinicornis Loew. St. Augustine, March 15; Or- 



niond, January (Mrs. Slosson). 



MICROPEZIDJE. 



Calobata nkrulosa Loew. St. Augustine ; Juniper Creek, May 

 15 ; Charlotte Harbor, February (Mi's. Slosson). 



Calobata la.sciva Fabr. St. Augustine, March 15 ; Juniper 

 Creek, May 15; Jacksonville, April ('INIrs. Slosson); Crescent 

 City (Hubbard). 



Cai.()15Ata fasciata Fabr. February 7 ( U. S. Nat. Mus. ). 



Calobata VARirics Johnson. Jacksonville, May 22. 



ORTALIDJE.' 



PvRfiOTA FiLioLA Loew. Omiond, April (Mrs. Slosson). 



PvRGOTA sp. Jacksonville (Ashmead). 



Amphicnephes pulla Wied. ( A. pertusus Loew.; Georgetown, 

 May 15; Ormond ('Mrs. Slosson). 



RrvELLiA PALLIDA Loew. St. Augustine, May 20 ; Georgiana, 

 July rWhitfeld). 



RivELLLv VAKiABFLis, Loevv. Volusia ; Drayton Island and Juni- 

 per Creek. May ; Ormond (Mrs. Slosson;. 



' The new genus and species of this family will be described by Mr. W. A. 

 Snow in a paper in course of preparation. 




1895.1 NATrHAI- SCIENCES OF HHILADEl.PHIA. 387 



RiVELLiA QUADRIFASCIATA Macq. Volusia and Draytou Island, 



May; Ormond, March (Mrs. Slossouj. 

 RiVELLiA n. sp. Drayton Island, May 9. 

 Stenopterixa n. sp. St. Augustine. 

 Camptoneura picta Fabr. St. Au;jrustiue, May 20 ; Cedar Keys, 



February 14 (U. S. Nat. Mus. ); Lake Worth (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Tephronota HUMiLis Loew. St. Augustine, March 15; Orlando, 



March 16 (Robertson). 

 AcROSTKTA n. sp. Charlotte Harbor i Mrs. Slosson). 

 EuxESTA NOTATA Wied. Inverness, February 10 (Robertson). 

 EuxicsTA QUATERNARiA Loew. Lake Worth, March, on cocoanut 



palm (Mrs. Slosson). 

 EuxESTA scoRiACEA LoBW. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson). 

 EuxtXTA xiTiDiVENTRis Loew. Charlotte Harbor, March (Mrs. 



Slosson ). 

 EuxE-STA ANNONM-: Fabr. St. Augustine, Marrh 15. 

 Ch.etoi'sis .knea Wietl. St. Augustine. 



Cii-ETopsis n. sp. St. Augustine, March; Ormond (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Gen. NOV. n. sp. St. Augustine, [March 15. 



TRYPETIDJE. 

 AcROTOXA ? AciDUSA (Walker) Loew. 



SlMI/MiUAPHA EI.EiTA Say. 



A( iiKA iNsEiTA Ijoew. Lakt' Worth, January (Mrs. Slosson). 



CARPiioTRiciiA (I 1,1 A Wied. St. Augustine, May, on Thistle; 



Ormond, April (Mrs. Slosson). 

 EluosTA .>^ni.ii»A(;INls Fitch. Charliittc Ilarlior, Maiwh (Mrs 



Slos.sonj. 

 Nkosim I.OTA VERNoNl.K Ijocw. Inverness, March 19 ( Kobert.son ). 

 Ensina ihmii-is Loew. Key West, January 29 ( V. S. Nat. Mu.s. ). 

 'rt:i'iiiiii IS rr( ATA Fabr. St. Augustine. 

 EiAKi'siA i;i:i i.A Loew. Drayton Island, .May 9; Tick l>land 



.May 1_'. 

 Urei.i.ia \i!>rKU«-A Ixew. I\iv West, February '.'> (l. S. Nat. 



Mus. ). 

 Urkllia SOLARIS lioew. Lake W'ortli. .March (Mrs. Slo.«*son) ; 



I live I lie.-'.-, March '.»-22 (Roberl«)n^ 




338 PROCEEDINGS OK THE ACAItEMY oK [1895. 



Ukeli.ia mkvakna (Walker) I^oew. "The specimen iu the British 

 Museum seems very like T. solariK. Tri/jtitit iKiri/titi Wiilker. 

 There are four specimens in the British Museum, two of them 

 are ChufopKii* aeiird, and one of these hears Walker's lahel 

 •narytia,' the two other marked 'Florida Doubleday' seem to 

 be Tephroiiota InDnili.-i/' Osten Sacken. 



LONCH^ID^. 



LoNCH.v.A «;i,Aiu:uRiMA Wied. Lake Worth ( Mrs. Slossou). 



SAPROMYZID^. 



Sai'R(»myza rivSIXOsa Wied. Collected by Mrs. Slossou (Coquil- 

 lett). 



Sai'ROMYZa tmrrosa I>oew. Orraond (Mrs. 81osson). 



Paciiycerina verticalis Loew. St. Augustine March; Lake 

 Worth, January (Mrs. Slosson); Inverness, March (Robertson). 



Lai'Xania opaca Loew. 8t. Augustine ; Palatka, May 19 ; Juni- 

 per Creek, May 15. 



Lauxania trivittata Loew. Georgetown, May 16. 



SEPSID^. 



Sepsis vicaria Walker. St. Augustine; Inverness, February 10 

 (Robertson). 



PIOPHILIDJE. 

 PiOPHiLA casei Linne. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson). 



EPHYDRID^. 



DiCH.ETA brevicauda Loew. St. Augustine. 



NoTiPHiLA sp. Orlando, February 23 (Robertson). 



NoTiPHiLA sp. Inverness, April 6 (Robertson). 



Paralimn.\ appexdiculata Loew. St. Augustine. 



PsiLOPA sp. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slossonj. 



Hydrellia sp. St. Augustine, March. 



Ochthera tuberculata Loew. St. Augustine, March. 



OcHTHERA EXCULPTA Loew. St. Augustiue; Inverness, March 



( Robertson ). 

 Brachydeutera DiMiDiATA Loew. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. 



Slosson). 

 Parydra quadrituberculata Loew. Onnond, January (Mrs. 



Slosson). 




1895.] NATIKAI- SCIE^'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 339 



Parydra sp. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slossoiij. 



Ephydra subopaca Loew. Charlotte Harbor, February (Mrs. 



Slosson). 

 Ephydra nana Walk. Ormond (Mrs. Slosson). 

 ScATKLLA LUGENS Loew. Oriiioud (Mrs. Slosson). 

 (\f>nia spinosa Loew. St. Augustine. 



GEOMYSID^. 



Hirn:K(»(HR<)A ornata Johnson. Drayton Islau'l, May 9. 



DROSOPHILID^. 

 Drosophila ampelophila Loew. St. Augustine ; Ormond ; 



Charlotte Harbor ( Mrs. Slosson i. 

 Drosophila tiUADRrM.\cuLATA Walk. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. 



Slosson j. 

 Dro.s()Piiil.\ pu-vctulata Loew. St. Augustine, March. 

 Drosoi'Hila macl'LOsa C04. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson). 

 Drosoi'hila vittata Coq. Ciiarlotle Harbor (Mrs. Slosson). 

 DR<>f*<»PinLA <UTTiKERA Walk. (Walker.) 



OSCINIDiE3. 

 CR.\s.sisirrA FORMOSA Loew. Ormond ( Mrs. Slosson ). 

 ('RA.ssisirrA cosiwTA Loew. St. Augustine, March. 

 Hii'PELATBs foNVEXlx Ijoew. St. Augustine, March. 

 OsciNi.s, sp. Charlotte Harbor ( Mi-s. Slosson). 

 MkR(»myza a.mkkk ana Fitch. St. Augustine. 

 SipiioNELL.v ciNKREA Ivocw. Charlotte Harbor fMrs. Slosson). 

 CiiLop.oi'H I'L'lJFXENs Ixiew. St. Augustiuc ; Orlando, March U! 



( Robertson ). 

 Chloroi-s orata Loew. St. Augu>linc. 

 CnLoRoi-s TRiviALis Loew. St. Augustine. 

 CJllLoP.ops AitnoMiNALls C(K|. ( 'harl(»ttc Hiirbor (Mrs. S|os.son t. 



AGROMYZID^. 



LoiJiopi Kp. A ARciATA Ix)ew. ( Kobert.soii ) ; Ormond (Mrs. Slos- 

 son ). 



lynuoppKRA iNi>i;«ORA Ix»ew. ( KoIk rtson . 



LdUoiTKRA LA<'rKlPKNNis I/M'W. Charlotte Harixir M rs. Slos-son ). 



Li:noi'is p.KLLA I>oew. Horse Landing. St. .lolin's River. May 

 17 ; Crescent City ' Hubbard ». 

 1:1 




340 IM«)('KKl)IN<iS OK THK A<AI>KMY oK [1<S!);). 



AuROMYZA jr( TNDA V. (1. Wiilp. (Teortjetowii, May !>. 

 A(;romyza sktosa l^oew. ralatku, May 11>. 

 A<;r()MY/a TKKMiN ams ( '(M|. Wfliika, May t). 



BORBORIDiE. 



LiMosiNA FONTiNAi.is Fall. St. Augustiiie, March. 



PHORIDiE. 



Phora inscisurai-is Loew. 9 " Imqav described tiie <? the .^exes 

 varv iu the color of the thorax, which is black dorsally in the 

 (? and wholly yellow in the 9 as in the European htrofor." 

 (Coquillett. i Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson). Tick 

 Island, May 12. 



Phora fasciata Fall. Charlotte Harbor (Mrs. Slosson.) 



HIPPOBOSCIDiE. 

 Olfkrsia amkkuana ^^each. St. Augustine, on the Screech Owl. 

 Olfer.sia sp. St. Augustine, on the White Heron, Kovemher 8. 

 Olfersia sp. St. Augustine, on the Fish Hawk ( F. H. Genung). 

 Olfersia sp. St. Augustine, on the Chuck Will's Widow (F. H. 



Genung). 

 Olfersia sp. St. Augustine. 




IJ^WO. ] XATL'KAI. SCIENCES OF PHIJ.ADELFHI A. 341 



NOTES ON AMERICAN ENCHYTRAEID^. I— NEW SPECIES OF FEIDERI- 

 CIA FROM THE VICINITY OF PHILADELPHIA. 



BY J. I'KRCY MOORK. 



Five species ot" Fridericia have been collected in the ueighhorhood 

 of Philadelphia, of wliic-h one is as yet iiisufficieutly studied. Brief 

 descriptions of the remaining four follow: 



Fridericia longa n. s. 



Length, 25-30 mm. Number of somites, 60-(i9. 



Anterior to the clitellum the seta? number four to the l)undle, the 

 inner pair being two-thirds the length of the outer. Posterior to the 

 clitellum the bundles are constituted of a single pair. 



The spermathecae (Plate XIII, figs. 4 and 5), are provided with 

 from five to eight accessory sacs or diverticula. These are much 

 smaller than the central sac, around the base of which they are 

 arranged in a single whorl, and, in the younger worms at least, 

 approximated in pairs. The central or primary sac is more or less 

 cylindrical, with concave, (as in tig. 4) or convex sides, in which 

 latter case it may be nearly spherical. The stalk or duct is slender, 

 and two or three times the length of the expanded portion of the 

 spermatheca; a few small unicellular glands cluster about its mouth. 



A pair of simple salivary glands (pepto-nephridia) open into the 

 <j.--ophagus in the fifth somite. In the examples studied tht y were 

 (piite unbranched (Plate XIII. fig. <> ». 



Supra-wsophageal ganglioti two-thirds as broad as long, convex 

 behind. 



The nephridia and heart were not slu<iie<l. 



/*'. longa has l)een met with in onlv one locality, where it was ex- 

 ceedingly plentiful during the month of April of this year. This spot 

 is on n very riry bank by a roadside; the surface soil, in which the 

 worms were found, is a thin laver of wood mould with a few 

 s'-aftered leaves which were not sufficient to prevent the L'touud from 

 baking hard and dry. A later visit 'in .lulyi found the worms in 

 verv much reduced numl>ers and of smaller size. In movement and 




-'^42 I'HOCKKDINOS OK THK ACADKMY OF [1890. 



somowlmt in torin this species recalls the neniatcKlcs. It possesses a 

 greater miniher of somites thati is usual in the genus, and reaches a 

 larger size than any other Fridericiu yet found in this region. The 

 sides of the somites, and especially the whole surface of the j)rostom- 

 ium, are plentifully studded with little rounded glandular knohs. 



Fridericia agricola n. s. 



This species has a length of 20-25 mm., and the mature worm 

 65 somites. 



The setje are normally arranged in fascicles of four to the thirtieth 

 somite, posterior to which only two persist. Sometimes the numher 

 is respectively five or three owing to the retention of one seta of the 

 larger outer pair for a greater length of time than its fellow. This 

 occurs most frequently in the ventral bundles, and in the outer half 

 of a bundle. The setje of the lateral bundles average about one- 

 tenth longer than those of the ventral. In normal bundles the setie 

 of the inner pair have a length of nearly two-thirds the outer. 



The spermathecK (Plate XIII, figs. 1, 2 and 3) are quite different 

 from those of F. loxga. The long, slender stalks are from six to seven 

 times the length of the sacculated portion, and the whole organ firopor- 

 tionately much larger than in the other species herein described. 

 The eidarged portion consists of a central thick-walled cylindrical 

 region, capped by a thinner- walled, more or less conical ))iece, which 

 at its apex opens into the oesophageal lumen. A single pair of 

 accessory sacs arise opposite to each other from the base of the thick- 

 walled region. These are of sub-spherical or sometimes more or less 

 flattened shape, and when fully developed quite as large as the 

 primary sac. They open into the latter by constricted mouths, and 

 being thin- walled, have spacious cavities which are usually filled 

 with spermatozoa, a bunch of which is likewise to be frequently found 

 projecting into the lumen of the oesophagus. Mo glands are present 

 at the mouth of the spermatheca. 



The salivary glands (Plate XIII, fig. 7) are conspicuous, and each is 

 divided into from five to seven slender tubular branches, which may 

 them-selves be simple or proviiled with one or two lateral twigs. 

 The tubes are of very irregular diameter. 



The supra-<esophageal ganglion is as in the last species. 



The ante-septal jiortion t.f the nejthridia is ovate; the post-septal 

 slender, with a dorsal lobe about equaling in size the ante-septal. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCKS OF PHILADELPHIA. 343 



The terminal duct passes forward nearly to the septum and then 

 bends sharply backward to its external pore. 



Prominent transverse slit-like dorsal pores begin on the somite VII. 



These worms are slow and sluggish in movement, and rest most of 

 the time coiled up more or less tightly. They are very plentiful 

 in early spring about the lawns and meadows at Wayne, Delaware 

 County, Pennsylvania, where they are found most frequently coiled up 

 among the bulbous underground stems of garlic. Later during the 

 suiiimer they become very scarce, apparently dying off, as almost none 

 could be found on digging to a depth of eighteen inches, and they 

 did not reappear even when the ground was soaked by prolonged 

 rain.s. 



A variety of this species has the terminal portion of the sper- 

 matheoa for a short distance from the mouth glandularly thickened, 

 and one or two solid outgrowths alternating with the accessory sacs 

 (Plate XIII, Fig. 3.) 



Fridericia parva n. s. 



This is the smallest species that I have found. Its length is 

 12-15 mm., and tlie number of somites 46. 



Four setae con.stitute a bundle as far as the twenty-tifth somite, 

 behind which there are only two. 



The spermathecie ( Plate XIII, fig. 10) are simple, the stalk being 

 about four times the length of the sacs, with glandular aggregations 

 at its base. There are no diverticula to the saccular region, which 

 is broadly pyriform, and attached to the stalk by its l)road end. the 

 narrow end opeiung into the (esophagu.s. 



Salivary glands (Plate XIII, fig. 9) simple and unbranched, with 

 a bulbous dilatation at the mouth. 



The dorsal vessel arises from the peri-enteric sinus in somite XVII. 



The 8Ui)ra-<i'8opliageal ganglion is oblong ovate, about three- fifths 

 a.s broad as long, with its greatest width a little |>osterior to the 

 middle of its length, and the {x»8terior border very slightly emargi- 

 nated. Ante-septal jwrtion of nephridia about as long as principal 

 part of f)08t-septal (minus the terminal duct) and about one-half 

 as thick. 



Funnel of vas deferens broadly ovoidal, with a constricted mouth; 

 duct much coileti and about 9-10 times the length of the funnel. 

 Prostate glend flattened glolM)i<l. 




1^44 PKOCKKDINHJS OK TllK ACADKMY OK [1895. 



The dorsal pores hegiii on somite VII, niul arc placed in each 

 8uccee*linf? somite one-third of its length from the anterior end. 



The larger peritoneal corjiuscles are elliptical, with a few sniall 

 oil (Irops of very regular size confined to a siiiLrlc circle close to the 

 jKM-iphery. 



F. imrm is opaline wiiite in color, :ui<l the prostonruim isconspicu- 

 ouslv roughened with rounded glandular nodules. 



This species is rather common between fallen leaves in damp spots 

 iu the woocls. July. 



Fridericia alba n. s. 



Length, 15-22 mm. Number of somites, 56-58. 



Seta' usually four j)er bundle, with the excei)tion of two or tliiee 

 terminal somites, which have two. In certain of the ante-clitellar 

 somites five, six, or even seven, set^e are sometimes present. The 

 setae of the inner pair in a bundle of four are about three-fourths, or 

 over, the length of the outer. All sette are rather long and slender. 



The spermathecie (Plate XIII, fig. 11) are almost exactly like 

 those of the last species, the sac being simple, but rather more 

 spherical, the stalk about four to five times its length, and without 

 glands at its mouth. 



The salivary glands (Plate XIII, fig. 8) are very slightly branched, 

 with only two or three branches, and may possibly be sometimes .simple. 



The dorsal vessel arises in the twenty-second somite. The brain is 

 nearly oblong and slightly emarginate behind. Dorsal pores begin 

 on somite VI. 



The nephridia have not been studied. 



This is the most nearly aq\iatic of the four species, being found 

 most plentifully in the wet moss and leaves along streams in the 

 woods. Common at all seasons and the most generally di.stributed 

 species. 



The four species above described are easily distinguished from one 

 another by the characters of the spermatheca and salivary gland 

 alone, as follows: 



utha loiKjd 



parva Spermatheca Salivary gland 



simple simple 



ayrico/a Salivary gland Spern)atheca 



branched with diverticula. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. • 345 



Description of Plati; XIII. 



All figures are maguified 112 diameters. 



Figs. 1-3. Sperniathecie of Fridericia agricohi; 1, iu optical 

 section, showing at ••( a bundle of spermatozoa projecting into the 

 (esophageal lumen; 2, a view of the base of the saccular region, and 

 3, the entire organ of a specimen of the variety mentioned in 

 the text. 



Figs. 4 and 5. Spermatheca' of two individuals of F. hmr/a in 

 lateral and basal views. 



Fig. 6. i?al i vary gland of 7\ longa. 



Fig. 7. " " " F. agricola. 



Fig. -s. " '• '' F. alba. 



Fig. 9. •' .4 . . /,' jutrva. 



Fig. 10. S[)ennatheca of /•'. j/>irra. 



Fijr, 11. " " F. (did. 




34() ♦ PHOCEROINOS OF THK ACAPKMY OF [1S95. 



AU(JUST 6. 



Mk. C'hauliis Mokhis in tlie Cluiir. 

 Niuc |)ersous present. 



ArcrsT 18. 

 Mr. Charles Moukis in the Cluiir. 

 Eight persons present. 



A paper entitled " On the Statu.s of the Names Aplysin and 

 Tethys," by H. .A. Pil.shry, was presented for publication. 



Au(UST 20. 

 Mr. C. Few Seiss in the Chair. 

 Seven persons present. 



A paper entitled " Synopsis of the Benibicini of Boreal America," 

 by William J. Fox, was presented for publication. 



August 27. 

 Adolph W. Milli:r, M. D. , in the ('hair. 



Fourteen persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication: — 



" Contributions to the Zoology of Tennessee. No. 1. Reptiles 

 and Amphibians, " by Samuel N. Rhoads. 



"Preliminary Note on a New Alkali Mineral," by Warren M. 

 Foote. 



Dr. Charles W. Burr was elected a member. 



The following were ordered to be printed: — 




NATIRAL SCIENCIvS OF PHIl.APKI^PH lA. 



347 



ON THE STATUS OF THE NAMES APLYSIA AND TETHYS. 

 HY HENRY A 1*ILS15KV. 



In the course of my studies on the •' Sen Hares," preliminary to 

 the preparation of a monograpli of this group of Tectihrancli Mol- 

 hisks for the Manual of Conehology, my attention was early forced 

 to the fact that in Liunieus' Tenth Edition of the Systema xS^xtune 

 the genus Tethys was pro|X)sed for the animal now known as Aphisia, 

 and included nothing else. Moreover, by the terms of the generic 

 diagnosis, such creatures as that knijwn as Tethi/s in modern times 

 are excluded. 



In the Twelfth Edition of theSystema, Tethyx is given a completely 

 dirterent meaning ; and the new term Aphfsl'i ( Laji/i/siu ) is brought 

 forward to include the species of the earlier Tethys. This later 

 usage has been accepted by zoologists until the present day. 



The question then arises, shall we apply tt) Linmeus himself the 

 canons of nomeuclature which would be rigorously enforced were 

 the claims of his successors in question ? It is with a view to obtain- 

 ing the opiinons of those who are exjjert in these matters that we 

 present below a full synopsis of the literature bearing upon the 

 que-itions at issue. 



The facts in this case have doubtless been fully iiiiearthed l)y 

 matiy investigatt)rs; but probably believing it best to "let sleeping 

 dogs rest" no oue' hits to my knowledge seriously raised the (pus- 

 tions to which I desire now to direct attention. 



The genua Tdhya wa.s founde<l by Linn6 in the tenth edition of I lie 

 Systenia Naturie, p. ()53, for two species, thus: 



"254. Tkthys. ('(n-j»i(4 oblongum, bilabiaruiu : corpUHciil-) 

 medio cartilagineo oblongo. Tfntncuin duo, cunciforma. i'Dnnninn 

 *luo, spirant ia. 

 " limacina 1. T. auriculis (juatiior. 



Habitat in Ort'a)to A njtfrn/i. 



'Except H. ).crgli. who in Mai. Uiitcrs. I. p. 33. in Seaipcr's Keiiicn,:iter Tlicil. 

 has made the huid ntatcnient that Linnifiis' earlit-r Tr/hys wuh uti .Ifi/rsij. hut 

 who continucH to um: Tfthvs for the Nudihranrh. 




348 PROC'EEDlN(JS OK rilK A(AI>K.MY OK [1896. 



Corititx ftblom/iim, anticc (iitn.tl 4 (iiiririili.'< <iciili.-< iiislriictiiiii. 

 " lepnriiirt. 2. T. citrpore rubro, mar^'ine ineinhnumceo, aiiriculis 

 cluol)iis. 



[a] liotnl. pli*c. 1. /(. 520. Lepus inariims. 



[h] Hi'//, aqiint. 487. Lepus mariiius. 



[c] (rtxii. inimtf. 475. Lepus inariiuis. A/ilr. i.rt<aii(/i(. 78. 

 Lepus mariiuis L 



Hitlntnt 1)1 M. Mrdiinntnco. 



('o)if. i'o/iimit. aqu. i. 26,/. 2, 3." 



It will he noticed that the above description of /imacinn contains 

 nothing diagnostic of" a species, though the genus is clearly indicated. 

 As Linne gives us no refierence to earlier writers, we have absolutely 

 no means of learning what Tethyx /ima'-Uid is, and the name must be 

 droppetl. 



In the case of leporiita, Linne gives ample references to the 

 sources whence his information was derived. Thes-e we analyze as 

 follows: [a] Gulielmi Roudeletii, etc., Libri de Piscibus Marinis, 

 etc. (1554), Liber xvii. p. 520, figures an Ap/yski which seems to be 

 the .4. faxciafa of authors (for it lacks the conspicuous shell-foramen 

 lA' (lepi/(tnx, and the broadly united i^arapodhi oi' jmnctata). [b] La 

 Nature & diversite des poissons, avec leurs pourtraicts, representez 

 an j)lus pres du naturel, par Pierre Belon du Mans (Paris, 1555), 

 p. 437, seems to be an undeterminable species of " Lievre Marin" 

 from the Cyclades, known to Belon through the ancient authors only, 

 [c] Conradi Gesueri medici Tigurini Historijc Animalium, Liber 

 nil. qui est de Piscium & Aquatilium Animantium natura (1558j, 

 p. 561 (Linne wrongly gives 475 as the page). A reversed copy of 

 Rondelet's figure is given, Gesner's information being wholly second 

 hand, [d] Ulyssis Aldrovandi etc., De Reliquis Animalibus cxan- 

 guibus, libri quatuor, post mortem eius editi Nempe De ^lollibus, 

 Crustaceis Testaceis, et Zoophytis (1606), De Mollibus, liber I, p. 

 78. In this work, which is purely a compilation, all of Rondelet's 

 figures again do service, and Linnaeus' reference will naturally be 

 confinerl to the first of these. Aldrovandus also figures (p. 82) a 

 couple of species of Doris as " Leporh marini alia species" and (p. 

 83) two other figures po.ssibly representing Ac/esia. Linne's " conf. 

 Columna " refers us to figures of the Nudibranch commonly known 

 as Tethys fimbria; but this figure is merely cited for comparison, 

 not as a representation of the species T. /cporiiia. 




1895.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 349 



It would therefore seem that Linne originally intended Tethys for 

 the Aplasia species, his generic diagnosis and references unmistaka- 

 bly indicating the " I^pus marinus " of the early zoological re- 

 naissance authors. 



In the Twelfth Edition of the Systema, p. 1089, Linnt' wholly 

 alters the diagnosis of Tetht/s as follows: 



" 2h9. Tethys. Corpus lil)erum, oblougiusculuin, carnosuni, 

 a[x)duin. Os proboscide te;rminah', cyliudrica. sub labis explicato. 

 Forainina 2 ad latis colli sinistrum. 

 " leporin. 1. T. labro ciliato. t 



Colnmii. tiqitit. "21. t. 26. Lepus marinus major. 



Rondel, pise. 526. I^eporis marini tertia species. 



HnOitdt In Mari Mediterraneo. 

 "fimbria. 2. T. hilno cr(iiulato. 



Boliads. mar. 54 /. 5. /'. 1. 2. Fimbria. 



Habitat in mari adritico. 



Viih'tnr a pnrfedoiti diatincii sper-ies." 



All of these references belong to the one Mediterranean species 

 (see Hergh in Semper's Keis^n, 2ter Theil, ii. p. 348), known as 

 Tctliy.i Jiinhria or Irporlua.^ 



On page 1,082 of the Twelfth Edition, the new genus Aply^ia or 

 Ij4tplyi*in^ is proposed, thus: 



" 283. L.vPLYsiA. ('orpii.< repens, ol)velatum membranis retlexis. 



Clypen dorsali, membranaceo, pulmones obtegente. 



Fitramt'ii lateralc, dextrum, pro genitalibus. 



Anun supra extremitatem dorsi. 



' The .sptM-ifii; name of this Nudibranch must stand fimbria Linn.; the 

 hinoniiiil rKinliiiiatinii 7'ftliys lef>orina heing preoccupied Ity LiiinH'U.>- 17.')^. 

 The syiiDnyiiiy of tin- Kcniis is as lollows: 

 l"»!1. f-'.initrht i'.oliadsch. ITtiL (a njoni)nyiii ). 

 17H7. 7V///I .t L. 17tl7, not 'J'fllivs L. 17.5H. 

 1H(»1. 7'elhts \au\., .Syst. An. s. ViTt. i>. 63. 

 1,S(»H. Tluthvx <iivi<T, .\nn. ilii .\ltis. <l'Hi.st. .Nat. -\li, p. 2.">7. 

 1H4)H. /7<<//i .Mi<k< I. Hi ylr. zii vcrRleich. .\nat. I. i. p. il, not '/Tk-Z/j J. .S.iwt>. 



Min Conch. ls',>(i. 

 1«17?. Thi-lys Kcr.. 'I'ahl. Sy.st. p. 28. 



1HI!(. I'hoeuirtiriis Uiidolphi. Kntozooruni SynojiHis, p. iu'A. 

 XH-iW. rertiiniHiii Otto, .Nov. .\. .\c. ( '. Leop". .Sat.Cur. XI. pp. •_'lU-:}oo. 



f)f Ihc^^' names tlic first was not jli.stinclly jiroposcd as a >:<iiiis, Hohads-c li'> 

 nomenclature Iteinu strictly mononyniic. 'I'Ih; N'Ventliainl eiKlilii were founded 

 on niiuMtc iippcndHKCs of the animal. suppo.'M-d to he punisitic woi'nis, and 

 cert.'iinly ihi' uciiMs coiild not In- identitied hy these descriptions. The other 

 names are variants on I.inniens' iiri;;inal I'tlhys 



' 'I'jie sjiellinK " Ijiply.sia " is evidently a typoKrapliieal error or ovcrsiKhl. 

 for tlie llrst use of tlie word, on jKi^e 1.072 of the Syst. Nat. 12, is in tin; correct 

 form " .\plysia." 'I'hi- generic diagnosis Kiven on thisimxe is hrief. hut suflicieni: 

 ' 2K3. .l/i/iT/Vj Tentaciila 4. .Vniis sui>n4 postica." 




350 I'KOCKKKINd.S OK TIIK AfADKMY OK [1895. 



T('ii((i('ii/ii ()iiatii()r, aiiterius eila. 



'• ilepihuis-. 1. J^ATLYSIA. 



Stfi<t. Xat. 10. |). ()o8. Tetliys riniaciiin. 



lioiiil. /iIm: 1. |). 520. Lepiis luaiimis. 



(ifs)i. aqudt. 475. Ijepu.s niariiiii.s Ivuiidt'lHtii. 



Bolutds. inar. o. /. 1, 2, o. Leniea i/rn/ililre. 



St'h. intiK 8. /. 1,/'. -s, 9. 



H'thifiif in M. Metliterraneo; .^(i.nic depUniix tartii. 



(B. 5J.j JoetiiUttgimii ttd ii(nii<e(tm iixqiic.'^ 



The description of tiie genu^* is implied for the species (Jcjniavs, 

 and it is also said to he the Tetlii/a Ihnacma of the Tenth Edition.' 

 The second reference is to tlie same figure of Kondelet formerly 

 cited for Tethijs leporhia. The third reference repeats the earlier 

 citation to Gesuer, with the same mistake as to the page. The fourth 

 reference is to the excellent figure of Bohadsch's Leniea, represent- 

 ing unmistakahly the Aplysia depilaiis of authors. The reference to 

 Seha is less happy, the figures being too ambiguous for certain 

 determination. It is perfectly evident that Linna?us' generic char- 

 acters of Xrt;^///.-*/'' were derived from Bohadsch's work; and as the 

 best figures are from the same source, the traditional identification 

 of depUans is fully sustained. 



Summary. — From the foregoing facts it would appear that (1) 

 the generic name Tethys Linn. 1758, must replace Aphjsia and 

 fjaplifsia Linn. 1767. And (2) as a substitute for Tethys \ Jinn. 1767 

 not 1758, we will probably be compelled to adopt either one of the 

 new spellings of this name proposed in the early part of the century 

 or an entirely* new generic term. 



' We would not replace the specific name depilans by limacina, because the 

 latter was not recognizably defined in Linna-us' earlier edition. 




1895.] NATUKAI- SCIKNCES OF PHII.ADEI.PHIA. 351 



SYNOPSIS OF THE BEMBICINI OF BOREAL AMERICA. 

 i;V WILLIAM J. rox. 



Tlie ^^eiiera com posing this Tribe may be separated as follows: — 



Anterior ocellus linear, transversely arenate. 



Maxillary paljii six-jointed, labial palpi f<)iu-jointe<l. Middle seir- 

 ment excavated posteriorly, compressed laterally ; last ventral eeg- 

 ment {<? ) with three spines ; mandibles dentate 



Bembidula Rurm. 



Maxillary palpi four-jointed, labial iialpi iwo-jointed ; metathorax 

 flat or convex behind, not compressed laterally ; last ventral seg- 

 ment is ) with a single spine: mandibles dentate . Bkmbex Fabr. 



Maxillary palpi, three-jointed, labial palpi one-jointed ; metathorax 

 and last ventral segment ( g ) as in Jirnihrc ; mandibles not den- 

 tate MlCltOHK.MBKX Patt. 



Anterior ocellus elli[itic, round or renifoim. 



Maxillary i)ali)i aix-j»)inted, labial }>alpi foiir-jointed; anterior ocel- 

 lus round or reniform ; maxilhe short Moxiodtla Latr. 



Maxillary palpi three-jointed, labial palpi one-jointed ; anterior 

 ocellus longitudinally elliptic; maxilla- long, reai-hing the hind 



c'oxjc f^i'KXKiLiA Say. 



In the above table I have considered Mlcrobemhex as a genus, 

 notwithstanding my former views. In the re.spective three-and one- 

 jointed palpi it ditiers from Hewliex about as much as that genus 

 does from Mntiedn/a. 



BEMBIDULA Burm. 



liei/iftf r OWvwr {hi pt.i, IOiny<i. iinlbod., i\', |i. liss, 17H'.). 

 /ifiii/)i(lti/u Burmeister, Bol. Acad. (Jordova. I, p. 1'J.J., 1'<T4. 

 .\ftntcthiln Cresson (in pt.), Synojisis, p. IIH, 18S7. 



IKMALl-^. 



Posterior coXH' unarmed - 



PoHtcrior coxa- strongly dentate l)eneath (wings smoky i j'tnlit us. 

 Last dors;il abdominal s,-gim'iit without a strongly nuirkcd pygi«lial 



area, the lateral ridm- feeble, if prcs«'iit : wings scjircily smuky :i 

 Last dorsal aiidominal sigmcnl with a str'iii>.'ly nntrkt d pygidial 



area, the lateral ridges strong 1 



Iia>it dorsal segment «»f abd<»men wilb ibc lateral ridge present. 



but weak and short •"> 



Last dorsal segment of aiidumen wilbont any trace of ridges . fi 




•^"'- PKOC'KKOlNdS OK THK ACADEMY «)K [1895. 



4. lAgt* ferruginous ; wings toleraLily smoky ; ubdoniinal inuriis uot 

 verj' broad and w idel y separated internally ; n»esoj)leur:e blaek 



(•(t/Jiioj)irr<i. 



Legs yellow ; wings seareely snioky ; abdominal marks broad, 



forming l)ands; niesoiileura' more or less yellow imrdin. 



6. Two lines on dorsnium, seutellnm anteriorly, metanotum (postscu- 

 tellnmi, enrved line on middle-segment above, and a broad line 

 on each side of all the dorsal abdominal segments, yellowish ; 

 hind tibiie striped with blaek above ; wings elear . . rar'n(ja(a. 

 'rhedorsulum, scutelluni, metan<jlum, and middle segment (exee}>t 

 latero-posterior angles) black, in rare eases oidy are these parts 

 spotted, and then only in a slight degree; lifth and sixth dorsal 

 abdominal segments blat-k, the former sometimes sjiotted in which 

 ease the spots are widely separated ; hind tibise not striped with 

 blaek ; wings dusky, paler at base and apex . . . quadri/dscifif'i. 

 <>. Legs, antennie in part, labrum and tij) of abdomen ferruginous ; 



elyi)eus yellow hh-idiairix. 



Legs black and yellow, the tibia^ in part and the tarni ferrugiuouH ; 



antenna', labrum and the tip of abdomen uot at all ferruginous ; 



elypeus black entirely, or with the base more or less whitish 



venira/iN. 



MALES. 



1. Posterior eoxa? unarmed 2 



" Posterior coxa? armed with a tioth beneath." /o(Hen.s. 



2. Intermediate femora beneath at the base drawn out into a jiromi- 



nent tooth 8 



Intermediate femora not dentate beneath at base, at the most angu- 

 lar O 



H. Jomts seven to ten of anteunie strongly rounded out beneath . . 4 

 "Joints seven to ten of auteunaj not rounded out beneath (legs fer- 

 ruginous) " inNidif(trix. 



4. Clypeus entirely, dorsuluni laterally, greater part of femora, the 



tibia^ and tarsi entirely, bright yellow ; markmgs of abdomen 

 »<jmetimes united within, broader than in reittralis; wings clear 



parata. 



Clypeus black, or whitish at base only ; dorsulum not yellowish 

 laterally, the greater part of femora and the tibite in part, black ; 

 fascia' of abdomen always separated internally, those on first seg- 

 ment variable in size ; wings a little infuscated . . . ventralia. 



5. Legs not ferruginous in part; wings, if dusky, but slightly so ; 



medial femora beneath not distinctly keeled, or angular at base . (J 

 l,.egs ferruginous and yellow, wings dusky; medial femora beneath 



distinctly keeled and angulateat base (utpitopUrti. 



*j. Greater part of clypeus, two lines on dorsulum (^rarely absent), 

 scutellum anteriorly, Jiietanotum, curved line on middle seg- 

 ment aljove, and a broad line on each side of all the dorsal abdomi- 




1895.] NATIKAI, SCIENCES OK PH I l-AHELPH I A. 353 



ual segments, yellowish ; hind libiie striped with black above : 



wings clear varngatn. 



Cly pens (rarely raaculate<l', dorsuluni, scutelluiu, nietanotum and 

 middle-segment (except latero-posteri .r angles) black, in rare 

 cases oul^- are these parts spotted, and then only to a slight degree; 

 last two or three dorsal abdominal segments black, sometimes the 

 lifth, or Jifth and sixth spotted, in which case the spots are widely 

 separated : hind tarsi not striped with black, wings a little dusky, 

 paler at base and apex rjiia(lrifa><ciai((. 



1. Bembidula variegata Oliv. 



Bimhex varici^ata Olivier, Kiiuycl. MctliCHl.. W . \>. 29'2. 



Monedula dissecla Dahlboiii. Hyiu. Kur.. I. p. 186. 



Monedula sericea Spinola (in pt. ). (iay's Hist. Chile. VI. i>. 3]ri 



lieinbidula varie<rata Ilaiidlirsh, Sitz.. Akad. Wissen. \Vi( n. Mnth.-natuiw. 

 Cla.sse. XCVIII. Abth. 1, p. 4Ss. 



J^jwer California ; Albuquerque, New Mexico (Coll. Aslunead); 

 found also in Brazil. 



2. Bembidula quadrifasciata Say. 



^fo>u■dtlla 4-fasciata Say. Expe.l. St. Peter's Kiver. II. p. 336, J 9 

 yfonedula Sallii. (Jtierin. Icrn, an Kigiie Aniin., III. 437. 

 Bembidula quadrifasciata Hantilirsth. I. c p. 492. 



Occurs from Peuusylvunia to Florida, westward to Texa.-^. 



3. Bembidala insidiatriz Hill. 



;M('Hi:dula :u///ij/is Cresson (in pt. I. Tr. Am. Knt. Soc, IV, p. 220. 

 Bftnbidula insidiatrix Handlirscli. 1. c., p. 494, 9 <? 



Texas and Kentucky (Han«llir.«ch;. I have received a 9 from 

 the Rev. G. Birkniau, of Lee County, Texas. The i I have not 

 seen. Handlirsch is prohahly right in assuming that Cre8.son con- 

 fused rffidriiHit, itiit'tdiofns and nipiiojjfeni, in his " Hynienoptera 

 Texana." 



4. Bembidula parata I'rov. 



Af'i/irdu/'i fntxila I'rovanclur, .\(1(1. Hyni. Quebec, p. 416. 



California ( Provanchcr; : Los Angeles fC'oquillctt i ; I'lah; 

 Nfvaila. The maculatioii of this sj)ecies is a mucii richer yellow 

 than ill rent ml 1)*, and the 9 , which luis been heretofore unnoticed, 

 is very much like the (? , ami has a well developed pvLMdiuin. 



5. Bembidula ventralis Say. 

 .\fonrdula rt-nlralix Say. 1. c, p. 336. g . 

 Miittrdula rrulrnlis Cresson (in. jit. ). 1. <■., ]». 220. 

 Monedula ventralis l*r/)vanciK:r. Kaiin. F.nt. Can., p. 629. 9 i ■ 

 [ti mbidula ventralis Man<llirM;ii. 1. i- , p. 49.5. 



Our most abundant and wiilely distributed sjKM-ies. It is rejM)rti'<l 



from Camnla rl'rovancher). and I have before me specimens from 



Massaclmsi'tta, New .Ier.>^ey, Pennsylvania, Virginia, Cieorgia, Texas, 



Colorado, California, ( )re'4on and other localities. 




•^•'•^ I'K<H'KKI»IN{1S <»K rilK A( AUKMY OK [1895. 



6. Bembidula oapnoptera Mdl. 



■' Afi>nt-ifit/<i :'t-n/r<7/is Cresson (in |it.l. !. c. p. •^,'(1. 



litinhiiiiila ttif'nof'tfij llHiullirscli. 1. c, p. 4!i7. I'l. II, f. 7, Vi. 9 <f . 



Georiria, Kpiitiicky nml Texas ( Hniidlirpch). Rppoinieiis in col- 

 lection from Georjria and Texas. The Rev. (I. Biik 111:111 luis sent 

 specimens from Tah' county, Texas. 



7. Bembidula fodieus Hdl. 



Bemhidula foditiis Mandlirscli. I. c. p. I'.i7. I'l. II. f. 11.^ 9 . 

 (lpor<ria and Texas CHajiiIIiix-h : Lee county ( liiiknian). I liave 

 not j^een tlie $ . 



BEMBEX F:il.r. 



Bcinby.v Fabriciii.s. Syst. Ent., p. 361, 1775. 

 Bemhrx Olivier, Ency. niothod.. IV. p. S.tS, 1789. 



Bcnibcx Handlirscli. Sitzb. Akad. Wissen., Wien, Matli -naturw. ( lassc. ("II, 

 Abth. I, p. 659. 1893. 



FKMALKS. 



Labrum ba.sall.v with a distinct trannverse iinpression; sixth tiornal 



segment coarsel.v wrinkled longitudinally 2 



I.aliruni not impressed hasally: sixth dorsal segment more or less 



punctured, rarely wrinkled 3 



li. ^landibles, tubercles and fore part of second dorsal segment not 



yellow B(lfr(i(j(i. 



Mandibles medially, spot on tubercles and anterior portion of second 



dorsal segment, yellow insigim. 



H. Wings distinctlv infuscated medially 4 



Wings clear throughout ,'> 



4. (ireater part of jiro-and me.soj^leune and sides of middle .segment, 



clypeus entirely, sides of dorsulum, scutellum and metanotum in 

 l)art and semicircular line on upper surface of middle segment, 

 bright yellow; markings of abdomen dorsally, broad, all united 

 internally and covering the greater portion of dorsal surface; 



wings very strongly in fumated medially inibi/iponiii^. 



Mesopleune and sides of middle segment black in greater part; 

 base of clypeus with two black spots ; no yellow on dorsulum, 

 metanotum, or middle segment above, the scutellum with a dot 

 on each side only ; markings of abdomen narrow, strongly sinu- 

 ous and more or less separated, particularly those on first seg- 

 ment ; wings not strongly in fumated . . ' texana. 



5. Middle segment above not at all yellow 6 



Middle segment above with a semi-circular yellow line . . . . IS 



fj. Thorax above entirely black, except perhaps a line on pronotum or 



a very small lateral spot on scutellum 7 



Thorax ab(jve distinctly spotted with yellow 11 




1895.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 355 



7. Thorax entirely black, including the sides; abdominal spots small, 

 widely separated, the fifth and sixth segments not spotted. 



cinerea. 



Thorax more or less yellow on the sides 8 



8. Mesopleune spotted 9 



Mesopleurje not spotted Spinolce. 



9. Clypeus entirely yellow ; form elongate 10 



Clypeus with two black spots basally ; form shorter and 

 more robust tixnnd. 



10. Markings of aljdunieii lutrruw, separated within ; mesopleune 



with two small spots amoena. 



Markings of abdomen broad, united within; mesoplenrte with 



a large spot covering about half its area conmxus. 



11. Thorax at the most clothed with a thin, pale pubescence, 



more or less yellow on the sides 12 



Thorax densely pruiuose, not spotted on sides; markings of 

 abdomen broad, united internally, greenish- white . . pruinosa. 



12. Dorsulum and abdomen densely clothed with pale pubes- 

 cence, that on abdomen shortest trofjlodytrs- 



Dorsulum clothed with pubescence on anterior portion only, that 

 on abdomen not dense, but rather indistinct niinUans. 



1.3. Clypeus with two black spots l)asaily texana ' 



Clypeus entirely yellowish 14 



14. Yellow on dorsulam forming a U, as in Moncdula j'ormoHn ; sixth 



dorsal segment somewhat wrinkled U->^cripta. 



Yellow on dorsulum, if present, in the shape of short, parallel 

 lines or spots; sixth dorsal segment jnnictured lo 



1.5. Markings of ventral ai)dominal segments forming broad, non- 

 interrupted bands; eyes strongly diverging beneath. 



orcifh ii(fi/i-n. 



Markings of ventral abdominal segments small, widely inter- 

 rupted, or connected by a narrow apical line 16 



16. Thora.x densely pruinose, not sj)otted on the sides; markings of 

 of abdomen broad, united internally, greenish white .pruinosa. 

 Thora.x at the most clothed with a thin, jiale pubescence, more 

 or less yellow on the sides I" 



17. Fore co.xu' and greater part of si<les of thorax, lila<-k, 



(r<)'jl<i<lijt< X. 



I''< >re coxte and greater part of sides of thorax, yellow .... Hfti/L' 



' Tliis fonii of trxana, haviiiK the middle si-Knunt iiinciilated ahnvf is 

 ankiKiwii to mc. 



' .\rrc»rdinK to Ilnndirwli's des(ri|ition, the dorsulum of Iroi^lodylrs in 

 s|>otted mediallj". The spcciment* before me do not show thitt cliaracter. dillV-r- 

 inK in tliat respect from Sayi, which ha.s two central and u posterior yellow Kpot. 



2ij 




356 IM<()CKKI)1N(;S OK TlIK AfADKMY OF [IHIJO. 



IMALKS. 



Lalinmi liasally w ith a tlistiiH't, traiiHvcrso inipiossioii 2 



Labruni not impressed liasally :> 



2. Clypeus entirely or in greater part black; sixth <i()rsal segment 



spotted Ii<lfr(((f(i. 



Clyjieus entirely yellow; sixth dorsal segment rarely spotte<l. 



iiisit/iiis 



3. Intermediate tarsi short, not longer than their tiiiia-; thorax en- 

 tirely black; dorsal segments 1-!^ with a small lateral si)ot only. 



eiiifren. 



Intermediate tarsi longer than their tibia'; thorax more or less yel- 

 low ; abdomen nsually with prominent maculations 4 



4. Seventh ventral segment apically produced into a spine (intermedi- 

 ate tibife not serrate) o 



Seventh ventral segment otherwise formed 6 



o. Markings bright yellow, those on ventral segments of abdomen 

 bn-ad, continuous; spine of seventh ventral segment pointed at 



aj)ex occiflf iifft/is. 



Markings greenish-white those on ventral abdonjinal segments 

 broad at the sides tmly, connected by a narrow apical line ; spine 

 of seventh ventral segment bifurcate at apex prirh)o.sa. 



6. Autennal joints not dentate or spinose beneath 7 



Antenual joints more or less dentate or spinose 8 



7. Intermediate femora serrate beneath ; middle-segment never yel- 

 low above; mesopleurte with a small yellowish spot; abdomen 



tolerably hairy texann. 



Intermediate femora unarmed ; middle-segment usually with a 

 semicircular yellow line above, and the mesopleurse generally 

 with a large spot ; abdomen very hairy trofjlodi/ifs. 



8. Prominence of sixth ventral segment bifid ; stipes of genitalia 



very broad, broadly truncate at apex amot lui. 



Prominence of sixth ventral segment simple; stipes of genitalia 

 otherwise formed 9 



9. Dorsulum spotted medially 10 



Dorsulum not spotted medially 11 



10. Dorsulum with two spots anteriorly in the middle; second and 

 seventh ventral segments with a large prominence medially ; 

 stipes of genitalia as in Plate XIV, fig. 4 ; first joint of medial 



tarsi normal AVry/. 



Dorsulum with the yellow forming a U ; second ventral segment 

 smooth, the seventh bearing two converging ridges ; stipes of 

 genitalia as in Plate XIV, fig. 5; first joint of medial tarsi 

 strongly curved U-ncripUi. 



11. Second ventral segment with a huge prominence in the middle . 12 

 Second ventral segment at the most with a ridge in the middle. 



18 




1895.] NATL'RAL SCIENCES OF PIIII.ADELPHIA. 357 



12. Thorax rather deu!*ely clothed with loug cinereous pubescence ; 

 femora about equally black and yello\\ ; markings of abdomen 



usually greenish-white or pale yellow Spinolte. 



Thorax not densely clothed with pubescence ; femora entirely 

 yellow, more rarely black at extreme base ; markings bright 

 yellow (markings of thorax variable) nubilijHunis. 



18. Flagellum entirely black ; ft»rm large and robust . . nubilipennis. 

 Flagellum pale beneath; form smaller and less rohj.>3t ; stipes of 

 genitalia as in fig. 1, Plate XIV siinUaxs. 



1. Bembex amoena Ildl. 



Bambex atmtna Haudlirscb. Sitz. Akad. Wieu., >rath.-uaturw. t'lasse, Abth. 

 I, CII. p. 769. ^ 9 . PI. I. f. 32; PI. VI, f. 31. 



Illinois (Handlirsch); Colorado: British Columbia (Handlirsch); 

 California; Nevada; Utah ami Lower California. 



This species is the bu-n' of Cressou, which was never described. 

 The abdominal markings are extremely varial)le, in some specimens 

 being almost entirely wanting. 



2. Bembex Belfragei Cress. 



liemhex Bel/ragei Cres.son, ( in pt. i, I'r. Am. Kut. Soc, IV, p. 220. ^ . 

 Betnbex Cressonis Haudlirsch, 1. c, p. 792, ^ 9 , PI. V, f 6. 



Texas. Cresson confu.sed two species in his description of this 

 species and Handlirsch, unable to decide from it which form should 

 be called Belfrufjei, gives them both a new name. I have Cresson's 

 types before me and find that the specimen on the original label to be 

 CreasoniH Handlirsch. Judging from this and from the fact that all 

 the Cressonis are from Texas, while on the contrary the other form 

 is from Georgia and Florida, I would place Cre--<.-<o )>!.■< as a .synonym 

 of B'lj'rtnjf-i. There is, of course some doubt whether this is the 

 proper course to pursue in the matter, but I think the facts cited 

 above are sufficent to justify this action. 



3. Bembex insignis Hdl. 



Urml'cx />r/r> ji^'f i Cri:ssi>ti (in pt. », 1. c. p. 220. ^ . 



Bttnbrx inui^uis Handlirsch, I. <•., p. 793. $ 9, PI. II, f. 7; Pi. VI, f. 32. 



Georgia, PMorida (C. W. Johnson). 



4. Bembex Spinolse St. KarK 



.■' lii-mhix fan lata Fahriciii^, >y>t l'i</,., •J2I. isiii. 

 Brmhrx Sf>iuol(r Lcpoliticr. d«- St. F"ar»{ean. Ilyni., III. 277. 

 Biftihix fasiiata IhilillHim, llyni, Kur., I. Jh7. 9. 

 Bembex SpinoUr IlHn<llir8ch, I. c, p. SS.'i. 



(Occurs throughout the United States and has l)een known to 



American students as fnxrlafti Fal)r., l)Ut as Handlirsch |)oints out 



F'abricius' description applies (Mpially well to other spt-cicM of the 




358 PROCEEDINGS OF THK ACAPKMY OK [1895. 



genus and therefore it isimpossil)le to identify the tniQ Jaxc lata, with- 

 out comparison with tlie type. Crcsson's te.vuiia fits Fabricius' des- 

 cription as well as does SpinoUv. As I have pointed out elsewhere, it 

 would have been better to have retained our common species, for years 

 known to American students as fasclata, as that species than to have 

 changed it at so late a date. This, of course, is only a matter of 

 opinion, and 'some day the name will be set right, provided the type 

 of Fabricius' species is in existence; otherwise we will have another 

 name to add to the list of unidentified species. 



The amount of yellow on the prothorax varies in Spinokc. I have 

 seen no S 's (in a series of specimens) having the stipes of genitalia 

 as figured by Handlirsch. While the form varies, as is stated by 

 that author, it is, as a rule, but little ditlerent from that shown in fig. 

 2, Plate XIV. The description oi' J use lata Fabr., is as follows: 



"5. clypeus integro, abdomine atro fasciis glaucis lunatis. Hab. in 

 Carolina, Mus. Dom. Bosc. 



Summa affinitas B. rostruUe. Auteuu:c nigne, primo articulo 

 subtus flavo. Caput nigrum, cinereo villosum, clypeo conico, flavo, 

 integro. Thorax niger, cinereo tomentosus margine antico tenuis- 

 sime, puncto sub alis alioque pone alas glaucis. Abdomen atrum 

 segment© primo fascia interrupta, reliquis fascia e lunulis duabus 

 connatis glaucis. Pedes flavi femoribus basi nigris." 



6. Bembex similans n. sp. Plate XIV, f. 1. 



9 . — Black; head, thorax, dorsulum and scutellum excepted, and 

 abdomen with cinereous pubescence, shortest on the abdomen; inner 

 and posterior orbits, clypeus, labrum, mandibles except apex, spot 

 between the antennie drawn out into a narrow line which 

 reaches the fore ocellus and may be interrupted medially, 

 scape beneath, spot on first joint of flagellum beneath, prothorax 

 particularly on the sides, tubercles, line at each side of dorsulum, 

 tegulse in part, spot on scutellum laterally, greater part of meso-and 

 metapleune, sides of middle-segment almost entirely, spot on anterior 

 and medial coxte, femora except base and a line al)Ove on fore and hind 

 pairs, tibia except line on fore pair within, tarsi except claws, two 

 large spots on first dorsal segment separated internally and a strongly 

 sinuous, non-interruj)ted band on segments 2-5, and a spot at each 

 side of ventrals 2-4, yellow; flagellum yellowish-testaceous beneath; 

 sculptured as in Spinola; but the upper surface of middle segment 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 359 



more strongly punctured; wings hyaline, nervures pale testaceous. 

 Length 14 mm. 



$ . — Colored and marked as in the 9 ; joints 5-8 of flagellum 

 dentate beneath; medial femora serrate beneath; second ventral 

 segment carinated down the middle, the sixth armed with a strong 

 tooth; stipes of genitalia as in fig. 1, PI. XIV. Length 14 mm. 



Las Cruces, New Mexico (Cockerell) August 14. Resembles 

 Sjjhiola' but differs in the thoracic markings, not hairy dorsulum, etc, 



6. Bembex Sayi Cress. Plate XIV, f. 4. 



Bembe.r Sayi Cresson, Proc. Ent. 8uc., Phila. IV. p 407, 9 ; llandlirsch, 

 1 c, p. 877. 



Colorado; Kansas (Snow); Cypress Mills, Texas (Ashraead); Illi- 

 nois. Resembles //'.m/Kj but differs by having the dorsulum and mid- 

 dle-segment above maculated and by clearer wings. The S is as 

 follows : (? . — Inner and posterior orbits, clypeus, labrum, spot 

 between antennas and another before the anterior ocellus, scape be- 

 neath, mandibles except apex, prothorax particularly on the sides, 

 large irregular spoton mesopleune and another on the metapleurre and 

 sides of middle-segment, two short |)arallel spots on dorsulum ante- 

 riorly, a line at the sides near the teguhu, sometimes a lateral spot 

 on the scutellum, spot on fore and medial coxte, femora except at 

 ba-^^e and a line on hind pair, tibite except a line on anterior pair, 

 tarsi except claws, two spots, widely separated on first dorsal seg- 

 ment, broader spots, narrowly separated and sometimes each in- 

 cluding a black spot an second, strongly sinuate<l, narrowly separ- 

 ated marks on segments 3-6, spot on seventh, large lateral spots on 

 second ventral sometimes united into a band, and smaller spots on the 

 remaining segments, yellow; flagellum yellowish testaceous beneath; 

 heail, thorax, and abdomen with cinereous pubescence, short and 

 rather sparse on abdomen ; wings hyaline, nervures pale testaceous; 

 joints 6-8, or 9. of flag«;llum rlentat( beneath ; middle femora 

 ifeneath serrate; middle segnu-nt strongly impre.<8e<l down the 

 middle; second ventral segment with a large, strongly curved tooth 

 or hook; sixth ventral with a strong tooth; stipe-s of genitalia as in 

 fig. 4, PI. XIV. Length, 13 mm. The three males before me 

 have no yellow on the upjMjr surface of middle segment and a female 

 from the same locality has but n slight trace of yellow on the part 

 mentioned. 




360 PROCKKDINGS OF TIIK ACADKMY OK [1895. 



7. Bembez texana Cress. 



Hrinht-.i' frViii/a Cressou. Trans. .VnuT. Eiit. Soc, IV. p. 219, 9 

 Bciubrv ttxana lliuuilirsih, 1. c, p. 730. PI. II. f. 30, I'l. VII, f. 21, 9 $ 



Texas; Georfj;ia; Florida; Carolina and Kentucky (Handlirsch). 



8. Bembex troglodytes lldl. 



IhnilHA troi^loiivtcs Handlirsch. I. c. p. 82!>. IM. II, f. 29, 9 $ 



Mexico (Handlirsch); Texas; Jacksonville, Florida (Ashmead). 

 The $ of this species resembles that of the S<tyi to some extent, 

 bnt abdomen is more hairy and the antennre not dentate. In his 

 description of this species Handlirsch states that the antenmc are not 

 dentate, while in the synoptic table at the end of his work they are 

 stated to be jnst the contrary. 



9. Bembex oonnexus 11. sp. Plate XIV, f. 3. 



9 . — Black; head and thorax with cinereous pubescence, that on 

 dorsulum short; with exception of the first dorsal segment the 

 abdomen is almost naked, being very sparsely clothed with a short 

 pubescence; inner and posterior orbits, spot between antennic and 

 another before the anterior ocellus, clypeus, labrum, mandibles 

 except apex, scape and fiagellum beneath, sides of prothorax, large 

 spot on mesopleurse anteriorly, njetapleurre, greater part of sides of 

 middle segment, tegula? more or less, spot on fore and medial coxae, 

 femora except a line above, tibiic except small spot within on 

 anteriors, tarsi except claws, large spots on first segment, interrupted 

 internally, broad bands or segments 2-5, whose anterior margin is 

 strongly sinuated, that on segment 5 slightly interrupted medially, 

 spot on segment 6, large spot on each side of ventrals 2-5, which 

 spots are connected by a narrow transverse line, this being enlarged 

 medially, and two longitudinal spots on sixth segment, yellowish; 

 wings hyaline, nervures dark testaceous ; j)unctures of second 

 ventral segment strongly and sparsely punctured medially. Length 

 20 mm. 



$ . — Marked and colored like the 9 , except in the following 

 points: line on prouotum, a spot on each side of scutellum, line on 

 metanotum yellow; the yellow on sides of thorax is more extended, 

 while the spots on ventral abdominal segments are not connected; no 

 black line on medial femora above, and that on the fore and hind fem- 

 ora is less than in the 9 ; joints 6-8, or 9 of flagellum dentate; medial 

 femora l)eneath serrate; second ventral segment armed with a large 

 tooth, and the sixth with a smaller one which is strongly furrowed 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361 



on apical portion; stipes of genitalia as in fig. 3, Plate XIV. Length 

 16 mm. 



Utah. Its large size, thoracic markings, and broad markings 

 of abdomen serve to distinguish this species. The stipes of the $ 

 genitalia is different from that of the other species. 



10. Bembex cinerea Hiil. 



Bembex cinerea Handlirsch, 1. c. p. 837, PI. II, f. 34. I'l. Ill, f. 29, 9 $ . 



I have only seen this species from Georgia, the type locality. 

 When viewed from al)ove the males appear to have the abdomen 

 entirely black, but when held a little on the side the small lateral 

 spots are seen. 



11. Bembex nubilipennis Cress. 



Bembex nubilipennis Cressoii, Trans. Am. Ent. Soc. IV, p. "218, ^ 5) ; Hand 

 lirsch, 1. c. I'l. il, f, .38. PI. VII, f. 25. 



Texiis; Louisiana; Illinois, and Missouri (Handlirsch); Kansas; 



Nebraska; Colorado. 



10. Bembex pruinosa n. sp. Plate .\I V, f. «. 



9 . — Black, the head, thorax and first segment of abdomen 

 densely clothed with a pale grayish pubescence, the abdomen with a 

 thin, appressed pubescence; inner and posterior orbits, spot between 

 antennic, scape and flagellum beneath, clypeus, labrum, mandibles 

 except apex, narrow line on pro- and metanotum, line on hind 

 margin of scutellum, .sometimes wanting or represented by a lateral 

 sj)ot ordy, curved line on upper surface, and a spot on sitles of 

 middle segment, either of which or both may be absent, sides of pro- 

 thorax, in part, rarely, femora except heavy line above and some- 

 time.H the base beneath, tibia- entirely or with a dark spot internallv, 

 and tarsi yellowish; d^jrsal segments 1-5 of abdomen with a broad, 

 uninterrupted band, and a spot at each side of ventrals 2-5, greenish- 

 white; wings hyaline; eyes diverging beneath. Ivength 17- IM mm. 



(? . — Simihir in a)loration to the 9 , excej)t that the hist dorsal 

 segment is spotted; joints 6 and 7 nf flagellum slightly dentate; 

 medial femora not serrate, entire; second ventral segment not dentate 

 or tuberculate, the seventh with two short, somewhat parallel 

 carime, eighth produced into a i)ifurcated spine at apex; stipes of 

 genitalia as in fig. 6, Plate XIV. I>ength 17-1-Smm. 



Oregon; Kanstis; Texas; Camden county. New Jersey (July 22). 

 This is ea><ily distinguishetl by its markings and male <liaraeter.'<. 




362 PROCEKDINGS OF THK ACAUKMY OK [1895. 



13. Bembex oooideutalis Fox. 



Ih-mh, I occiiieiilalis Fox, Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci. (2), IV, p. 10, 9 (J ; Htind- 

 lirsoh, 1. <•.. p. St!8. pi. Ill, f. 13: pi. VII. f. 3S. 



Lower California ; California, Nevada, Las Cruces, New Mexico 

 (Cockerell ). The ventral abdominal segments in this species are 

 broadly banded with yellow. 



14. Bembex U-scripta n. sp^ Plate XIV , f. 5, 9. 



9 . Black ; head and thorax clothed with a tolerably dense, long, 

 yellowish pubescence ; alxlonien with a short, sparse pubescence ; 

 inner and posterior orbits broadly, spot between antemia% scape and 

 flagellum beneath, clypeus except a large central spot, laliruni 

 mandibles except a})ex, prothorax, nieso-and nietapleura' and sides 

 of middle-segment entirely, large U-shaped mark and lateral line on 

 dorsuluiu, line on scutellum and metanotuni, curved line on middle- 

 segment, posterior face of the latter toward the sides, all the coxie 

 more or less, femora except a stripe above, tibiie except an internal 

 spot tarsi, two large siuuated spots on dorsal segments 1-4, almost 

 united within, three spots on segment 5, segment 6, and all the ven- 

 tral abdominal segments more or less, the spots on segments 3-5 

 smallest, yellow; wings hyaline, nervures and stigma dark testaceous; 

 eyes diverging a little beneath ; second ventral segment finely and 

 closely punctured throughout ; first transverso-cubital nervure but 

 slightly bent. Length 18 mm. 



$ . — Colored and marked like the 9 excejit that the front of the 

 head, thorax except above, legs and the first four ventral abdominal 

 segment are almost entirely yellow; scape of antenna? short and 

 broad, the flagellum with the joints rather flattened, the sixth to 

 tenth being more or less dentate, the apical joint rather strongly 

 curved; medial femora margined beneath with unusually long teeth 

 or spines; apex of medial tibite drawn out into a prominence; first 

 joint of medial tarsi strongly curved ; second ventral segment 

 smooth, not dentate or tuberculate; the .seventh with two carinse 

 which diverge basally; eighth ventral produced into a sj)ine at apex; 

 stipes of genitalia, as in fig. 5, plate XIV. Length 18-1 ii mm. 



California ; Tucson, Arizona (coll. Ashmead). Remarkable 

 for its male characters. The shape of the medial first tarsal joint 

 in (? is very like that of Moneda/a fonaom, and the markings are 

 very siniilar to that species. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 363 



MICEOBEMBEX Patton. 



Microbembex Patton. Bull. U. S. Geol. Survey, V, 364. 1879. 

 Bembex (in pt.) Hamllirsch, 1. c. p. 660, 1893: Fox. Proc. A. X. S. Phila. 

 1S94. p. 303. 



Microbembex monodonta Say. 

 Bembex monodonla Say, Exp. 5t. Peter's River. Appendix, p. 33.5. 

 Bembex ciliata Lepeletier de St. Fargeau. Hym.. Ill, 279. g . 

 Bembex argentifroiis Cresson, Proc. Ent. Soc. Phila., IV. p. 1 tl, 9 J . 

 Microbembex monodonta Patton, 1. c, p. 364. 

 Bembex monodonta Handlirsch. I. c, p. 882. 



Occurs throughout the United States and extends to Guatemala. 

 In the $ the markings of the abdomen are extremely variable ; 

 and I have a specimen before me in which the abdomen is entirely 

 yellow. 



MONEDTJLA Latreille. 



Monedula Latreilk-. Hist. Nat. dcs Insects, III, 345. 1802. 

 Stictia Illiger. F'aun. Etnisca. Ed. 2. 2H.5. 1806. 



Monedula Uandlirscli. Sitz. d. k. Akad. Wissensch. Wieu. Math.-naturw. 

 (•la.s.se. X( IX. Al.th. 1. 77. 1890. 



Females. 



Second ventral abdominal segment a little proniiuenl and truncate 



ba-salh-; auteri<jr ocellus round, not placed in a pit '1 



Second ventral abdominal segment not prominent, flat; anterior 



ocellus reniform, placed in a strong pit '-^ 



2. Sides of thorax almost entirely, four longitudinal stripes on dorsu- 

 lum, line on scutellum and metauotum and a curved one on 

 middle .■segment, yellowish; femora yellow with a dark stripe 



al)ove ti'ii/ii'itd. 



Sidew of thorax except tubercles and lateral angles of middle seg- 

 ment, l)la<-k; dorsulum with ayellowspot near the tegulu-only, 

 the .scutellum w ith a small lateral spot; middle segment w iih 



or without a curved yellow line carofiiKi. 



H. I)or.>iiilum with a U-shaped yellow mark (pulvilli larue and dis- 



tincti 4 



Dorsulimi at the most with two longitudinal yellow marks . . . .) 

 4. lAMigth \H^-'2'2. mm.; eyes converging aliove; abdomen al)out ecjually 



yellow and black sprcioxn. 



lA'iigth 10 mm.; eyes not converging alK)ve; abdomen almost 



entirely yellow xrHnln 



o. Pulvilli large anddistinct ' 



Pulviiii small, inflintinct . in 



6. Head small, narrower than thorax (head and thorax more hairy 



than usual; no marks on dorsulum or mcsopjenne; nutrkings 



pale yellow - marf/hiata. 



Head as usual, as wide Ji- tliorax 7 




'^^^ PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACAPEMY OE [1895. 



7. Anterior wings reaching l)e.vond the third alxioniinal segment . 8 

 Anterior wings not reaehing beyoud the tliird abdominal segment 



i) 



8. Tliorax im sides and beneatli almost entirely yellow, the greater 



part of abdomen of that eolor; median and hind tarsi as usual; 

 thorax not mueh narrowed posteriorly. Length 18 mm. 



(( ninconiis. 



Thorax on sides and beneath more (n- less black; the segments of 



abdomen about equally yellow and blaek; median aud hind 



tarsi somewhat flattened, the last joint larger than usual; 



thorax distinctly narrowed poHteriorly. Length 11-12 mm. 



pii/id. 



9. Length 12-1.") mm.; mesosternum in greater part black; front and 



vertex clothed with long, pale grayish hair; punctuation of 

 dorsulum very dense, almost granular; fascia? of abdomen 



deeply emarginate anteriorly pictiJ'roiiH. 



Length 9 mm.; mesosternum almost entirely yellow; front and 

 vertex with sparse, rather short, pale hair; punctuation of dor- 

 sulum distinct; fascisB of abdomen, the first excepted, scarcely 

 emarginate exigua. 



10. No yellow on dorsulum medially or on middle segment; first 



dorsal abdominal segment with a lateral spot, the fascijc on the 

 following segments interrupted medially; wings fusco-hyaline. 



scrrata. 



Dorsulum medially and middle segment above si)otted; all the 

 dorsal abdominal segments (except the last in one species) with 

 a continuous fascia; wings hyaline 11 



11. Clypeus entirely and a large spot on mesopleurje as well as greater 



part of femora, the tibite and tarsi entirely and a fascia on all 

 the ventral segments and apex of last dorsal, yellow. 



pulchella. 



Clypeus basally, mesopleurte, femora, except apically, tibia^ with- 

 in, black; tarsi dark testaceous; at the most the second ventral 

 with a small lateral spot; last dorsal entirely black . . usitaia. 



Males. 



Seventh dorsal segment with a distinct lateral spine; eighth ven- 

 tral terminating in one s^jine 2 



Seventh dorsal segment not spinose; eighth ventral with three 



spines 3 



2. Lateral spine of seventh dorsal segment acuminate at tip; thorax 

 maculated; maculation of first dorsal segment in form of Q 3 

 that on the following segments not broken into spots . sigixda- 



Lateral spine of seventh dorsal segment trunc-ate or obtuse at apex; 

 maculation of first dorsal segment consisting of two large spots, 

 that on third segment of four spots Carolina. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 365 



3. First joint of medial tarsi curved 4 



First joint of medial tarsi not curved 12 



4. Medial femora serrate or cariuate beneath, or broadly emargiuate 5 

 Medial femora smooth beneath 11 



5. Eighth ventral, with a discal spine 6 



Eighth ventral, without a dit^cal spine 8 



6. Apical joint of fcjic tarsi greatly enlarged ; fore femora flattened 



(second ventral segment unarmed) speciosa. 



Apical joint of fore tarsi not enlarged ; fore femora not flat- 

 tened 7 



7. " Second ventral segment flat and unarmed ; i)ul villi scarcely dis- 



cernible." Hcrrata. 



Second ventral segment with two approximate tubercles near 

 posterior margin ; pulvilli distinct entarginaia* 



8. Second ventral segment tuberculate 9 



Second ventral flat, not tuberculate (mesopleursc and middle-seg- 

 ment not at all yellow) pinna. 



9. Intermediate and posterior femora broadly emarginateor strongly 



incurved (second ventral segment bituberculate ; pulvilli dis- 

 tinct) ftiDorata. 



Intermediate and hind feniorara not emarginate or incurved . 10 



10. Second ventral segment with two small tubercles ; femora above 



black at base only ; pulvilli small, indistinct .... pulehcUa. 



Second ventral segment with a single large tubercle; femora above 



with a Idack stripe ; pulvilli distinct tuhi rctdutd. 



11. Second ventral segment flat, not tuberculate ; antennie as usual, 



not long. Length, Vl-Y^ mm picd/rons. 



Second ventral segment with two large acute tubercles ; antennse 



unusually long and slender. Length IS mm. . . . (rnuicornw. 



Hi. Fore legs with the tarsal coml) but feebly developed ; .second ven- 



tal .segment bituberculate IH 



Fore legs with an e.xtremelj' long and distinct tarsal comb ; second 



ventral .segment flat, not tuberculate; front narrow . . . jjiiffn. 



V^. Heatl and thorax rather denselj' rlotlicd with longhair ; dorsulum 



with two central yellow spots villous. 



Head and thorax not densely pubescent, sj)arsely mo ; dorsulum 

 without central yellow spots . iiHitntd. 



1. Monednla signata Linne. 



l'es/>j 5/'v//(i/(j Linni', Systcnia Nat., Ed. X, Vol. I, p. 574. 

 Bemhex aignata Fabrifiu.s. Syst. Ent.. p. 3«ll. 

 Apii vrspiformis \U-. ( ieer, Mi'tiioirt'S, III, p. .')70, I'l. 'JH. f. 3. 

 Bemhtx -Jrifiifot mis {)\\\\vr. Kncycl. Mt'th., IV, p. 2<K», L'l. KMl. f. IH. 

 ycsf>a diiidrma ('hri8t. Naturi?. <1. Ins., p. 'irZi, IM. 1», f. 7. 

 .\fontiiula sijs^ttaln Ix'|M;l<'ti(r dc St. Farj-'caii. Hyni. Ill, p. -h:i. 



This i.s the commonest tropical 8f)ecies and is reconlcfl irom Mex- 



•,V/. mamilljla Iliiinll., wliicli I liiivc iidt scrn, m:iy \h- iduiitical with i luar- 

 ginala. 




366 PRUCEKDINOS OK TIIK ACAI>KMY (IK [1895. 



ico and the West Imlies as far south as the Argentine Repuhlic. I 

 have a specimen hefore me, the property of the U. S. National 

 Museum, from Napa County, California, collected by D. W. 

 Coquillett. 



2. Honedula Carolina Fahr. 



/h-nihf.v iarolitta Fiil)ricins, Ent.Syst. , II, p. 249. 

 Jfonedu/ii iatoliiia l.ntroille. Hist." Nat., XIII, PI. 102, f. 3. 



Occurs from Pennsylvania and New Jersey to Florida and Texas; 

 Illinois. 



3. Monedula speoiosa C'nss. 



Moiu'diila sptciosa t'ressou, Proc. Ent. Hoc, Pliiladi-lpliia, IV, p. 470, 9. 

 J/onttfu/a/orinosa Cre.^son, Trans. Am. Biit. Soc, IV, p. 221, ^ 9. 

 .Ifonetiu/a s/>tcios(2 Pattoii, Bull. U. S. Gi-ol. Survey, V, ]>. 'Mil. 



Colorado; Kansas; Texas. 



4. Monedula serrata Hdl. 



Mo>itdti/a serraia Handlirscli, Sitzb. Akad. Wisseii, Wien, Math.-naturw. 

 Classe, Abth. I, XCIX, p. 143, $ . 



Georgia. I have not seen the $ , the sex described by Hand- 

 lirsch, but a 5 specimen before me evidently belongs to this species. 

 It agrees with the description of the $ , except of course lacking the 

 $ sexual characters, and the base of clypeus is black. This latter 

 character mav vary, however. 



5. Monedula pulohella Cress. 



Monedula pulchella Cressoii, Proc. Ent. Soc, Phila., IV, p. 471, $ 9. 

 Monedula niinntnla Handlirscli, 1. c, p. 148, 9 • 



Colorado; Texas; Kansas; Utah; California. A slenderer species 

 than plctifrous which it resembles but the wings longer. Judging 

 from the description, minutula is identical with pulchella. 



6. Monedula tuberculata n. sp. Plate XIV, f. 8. 



(? . — Similar to pulchella. Black; inner and posterior orbits, 

 inferior portion of front, clypeus except narrow line at base, labrum, 

 mandil)les except apex, line on pronotum including the tubercles, 

 sides of prothorax, spot on mesopleurae, postero-lateral angles of 

 dorsulum, large spot on each side of scutellum narrowed internally, 

 metauotum, middle segment above and on sides more or less, legs, the 

 coxse, trochanters and femora variegated with black, however, large 

 spot on each side of the first dorsal segment, a baud on the remaining 

 dorsals, that on the second broadest and deeply emarginate anteriorly 

 in the middle, the others rather sinuated, and all the ventrals with 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OK PHILAOELPHIA. 367 



a hanfl, bright yellow; head and thorax more hirsute than in ind- 

 ehf'Ud; wings hyaline, nearly twice the length of thorax. Antennse 

 black, the ecape and following three or four joints beneath, yellow, 

 apical joints of flagellum somewhat curved, particularly the last; 

 eyes, if anything, diverging above: dorsulum and scutelluni closely 

 and continently punctui'ed, the middle segment above and behind 

 somewhat more coarsely; last joint of fore tarsi broadly dilated; 

 pulvilli small, though discernible: medial femora serrate beneath; 

 first joint of medial tarsi strongly curved, and within near base with 

 four stout spines; second ventral segment with a single, large, 

 prominence, which is hirsute; sixth and seventh segments somewhat 

 carinated down the middle; eighth ventral without a discal sjiine: 

 last dorsal shaped as in fig. 8, Plate XIV. Length 14 mm. 



Nevada. Easily distinguished by the armature of second ventral 

 and shape of last dorsal .segment. 



7. Monedala plana u. sp. Plate XIV, f. 7. 



S. — Black; inner and posterior orbits, spot before anterior 

 ocellus, inferior portion of front, clypeus, labrum mandibles except 

 apex, scape and following two joints beneath, narnjw line on pro- 

 notum, tubercles, spot on each side of scutellum, metauotuni, legs, 

 the coxie, trochanters, and femora variegated with black, however, 

 spot on each side of first dorsal segment, a band on the following 

 dorsals except the last which is spotted, that on segment 2 broadest 

 and all emarginate anteriorly in the middle, the second most 

 deeply, and a spot on each side of ventral segment 2, yellowish ; 

 flagellum pale testaceous beneath; head and thorax sparsely hirsute; 

 wings hyaline, less than twice longer than the thorax. Apical 

 antennal joints more or less curved but not as strongly as in iahcr- 

 ciilnta; eyes, if anything diverging above; dorsulum and scutelluni 

 coriaceous, subtilely and indistinctly punctured, the middle s(finient 

 more strongly ; last joint of fore tarsi not broadly dilated : pulvilli 

 indistinct; medial femora strongly serrate beneath; first joint of 

 medial tarsi curved, with several strong spines within near the base; 

 second ventral segment flat, umirmed; sixth and seventh not armed; 

 eighth without a discal 8|)ine ; last dorsal as in fig. 7. I'late XIV. 

 Ijength, 14 mm. 



Custer, South Dakota (Aldrich). 




'^^^ PHOCEKDINOS DK TH K AC'ADKMY OK [1895. 



8. Monedula emarginata Cress. 



.ffonf-(/n/a etnatffiuala (.'resson, Proc. Eat. Soc, I'liilu., \\ . \\. Kis, j> J 

 Colorado. The head in this species is small, narrower than the 

 thorax, while in the other species it is usually somewhat broader 

 than the thorax. In the $ the medial lenioru has a sharp larina 

 beneath, which is sometimes more or less serrate. 



9. Monedula femorata n. sp. Plate XIV, fis. 10. 



i . — Jilack ; inner and po.-^teriur orbits, spot before anterior ocel- 

 lus, interior portion of the front, clypeus, labrum, mandibles except 

 apex, scape in front, line on prouotum, tubercles, small spot near 

 teguhe on dorsuluni, lateral spot on scutellum, metanotum, irregular 

 spot on mesopleurie extending on the sternum, postero-lateral 

 angles of middle-segment, legs, the coxre, trochanters and femora 

 variegated with black, however, a fascia, narrowly interrupted, on 

 dorsal abdominal segments 1-6, the seventh at apex, and a fascia on 

 ventrals 1-6, yellowish; tlagellum, except basal joints which are 

 yellowish testaceous beneath, above black, wings hyaline, not more 

 than one-third longer than the thorax. Eyes diverging a little 

 above; dorsuluni, scutellum and base of middle segment with even, 

 distinct punctures, those beyond base of middle segment coarser; 

 pulvilli distinct ; medial and hind femora strongly emarginate 

 beneath (see fig.) particularly the former; first joint of medial 

 tarsi curved, much broader than usual, not spinose basally; second 

 ventral abdominal segment bituberculate. Length, 12 mm. 

 Jacksonville, Florida (coll. Ashraead). 



10. Monedula pictifrons Sm. 



Monedula picti/rons .'^luith, Cat. Hym. B. M.. IV, p. 335, $> 

 Monedula inermis Handlirsch, 1. c. p. 144, $ 



Virginia; North Carolina; Texas; Mi-ssouri; Illinois; Lower 

 California (Handlirsch). I consider Handlirsch's inermis to be the 

 S of this species. 



11. Monedula tenuicornis n. sp. 



9 . — Resembles sjjeciona, but without the U-shaped mark on dor- 

 suluni and the wings nearly one- third longer than in that species. 

 Black; inner and posterior orbits, inferior portion of front, spot 

 before anterior ocellus, clypeus, labrum, mandibles except apex, 

 scape entirely, and the following six or seven joints beneath, pro- 

 thorax almost entirely, tubercles, thorax on sides and beneath, two 

 parallel, longitudinal spots and a transverse one, posteriorly on 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 369 



dorsulum, line on scutellum, metanotum and on middle-seL'nieut 

 above, legs except a small spot on trochanters and a short line tai 

 femora, a broad band on dorsal segments of abdomen 1-5 that on 

 first segment strongly emarginate anteriorly in the middle, those on 

 second and third enclosing two approximate black spots, those on 

 fourth and fifth with four emargiuations anteriorly, the posterior 

 margin of all these bands is more or less sinuate, sixth segment 

 yellow apically, ventrals l-o entirely and 4-6 with a band, bright 

 yellow ; head and thorax with short, pale pubescence ; wings hya- 

 line, not twice the length of the thorax. Eyes .slightly converging 

 above; dorsulum with shallow, confluent punctures, those of the 

 middle segment coarser. Length, 18 mm. 



S . — Colored like the 9 . l^ut has a greater extent of black on 

 trochanters and femora and thorax, only a lateral spot on dorsulum, 

 the scutellum with two spots, the marks of abdomen separated inter- 

 nally on dorsals 1-6, and those on l-o broken into four spots the 

 outer of which are the larger. Autennie long, setaceous, much 

 longer than iu any of the other sj^ecies, the apical joints, especially 

 the last somewhat curved; apical joint of fore tarsi not broadly di- 

 lated; pulvilli distinct; intermediate femora smooth beneath; first 

 joint of intermediate tarsi curved, but not spinose within near the 

 base: second ventral segment with two approximate, elongate 

 tubercles near posterior margin; eighth ventral with a discal spine; 

 last dorsal emarginate at apex. Length 17 nMii. 



San Bernardino County, California (Coquillett). Both specimens 

 belong lo the L'. S. National Museum. The species is remarkable 

 for the long antennic of the male. 

 12. Monedula scitula n. sp. 



9 . — Entirely yellow except as follows : a transverse black 

 stripe above and beneath the ocelli ; three longitudinal stripes on 

 dorsulum, the inner of which broadest, largest apically (the dorsu- 

 lum may be described as having a U-shaped, yellow 8ix)t), a dark 

 strips on scutellum anteriorly, one on the middle segment anteriorly 

 and in the nii<ldle, and a dark sjmt anteriorly in the niiiMIe on the 

 first and second dorsal a))dominal .segments, the size of wiiich is 

 variable, that on the second segment being most transverse; antenna' 

 (excei»t 8ca|)e) testaceous above; wings hyaline. long, reaching be- 

 yond apex of abdomen; head and thorax with toh-raltly spnrH', pale 




•'^"0 PRiHKKDlNOS OK THK ACADKMY OK [185)5. 



hair. Inner eye nmr^jins almost parallel; dorsuluni and scntcllum 

 rather stronjrly punctured, the punctures separated; punctuation of 

 middle segment closer and contluent; pulvilli lar<j:c and distinct, 

 length 10 mm. 



Tucson, Arizona (coll. Ashmcad). Three specimens, two of 

 which lack heads. The coloration, size and length of wings will dis- 

 tinguish this species. In shape it reminds one of the bee-genus 

 Epeolas, being short and robust. 



13. Monedula ezigua n. sp. 



9 . — Black; inner and posterior orbits, that on the latter extend- 

 ing across the vertex, semicircular spot before anterior ocellus, in- 

 ferior portion of front, clypeus, labrum, mandibles except apex, 

 scape entirely, the following three or four joints beneath, line on 

 pronotum, sides of prothorax more or less, tubercles, a lateral line 

 and two medial longitudiuo- parallel lines on dorsulum, irregular 

 spot posteriorly on same, line on scutellum posteriorly, broadest at 

 sides, line on metanotum, another on middle segment, mesopleur» 

 and sternum almost entirely, spot on metapleura?, another larger one 

 at postero-lateral angles of middle segment, legs, except spot al)ove 

 on coxfe, trochanters and base of femora, a broad band on dorsal 

 abdominal segments 1-5, the first deeply emarginate anteriorly in 

 middle, the others much less deeply, but more broadly, last segment 

 apically, and all the ventrals more or less, the third entirely, the 

 second nearly so, bright yellow; head and thorax sparsely pubescent, 

 wings hyaline, very short, not one-third longer than thorax; flagel- 

 lura testaceous above. Eyes slightly diverging above; vertex with 

 the depressions less marked than usual; dorsulum and scut«llum 

 rather closely, though distinctly punctured, the middle segment more 

 strongly; pulvilli distinct. Length 9 mm. 



Montana. 



14. Honedula villosa n. sp. 



Moncdiila mamillala Fox (non Handlirsch), Proc. Calif. Acad. Sci. (2) IV, 

 p. 10. 



$ . — Head and thorax with very dense and shaggy, pale pubes- 

 cence; first dorsal and ventrals 1 and 2 with similar but sparser 

 pubescence, the remaining abdominal segments with short semi-erect 

 pubescence. Black; inner and posterior orbits, spot on each side of 

 fore ocellus, clypeus, labrum, mandibles except apex, scape beneath, 

 line on pronotum, sides of prothorax in part, tubercles, two spots, 




1895.] NATURAL sciencf:vS of phii.adklhhia. 371 



diverging posteriorly on dorsulum and another near tegulse, lateral 

 spot on scutellum, line on metanotura, spot on raesopleura;, attenu- 

 ated beneath and extending in the form of a narrow line on the 

 anterior part of the mesosternum, then extending down the medial 

 furrow to the medial coxne, spot on nietapleura and sides of mid- 

 dle segment, legs except sjwt on coxje and trochanters, a stripe above 

 on femora and an internal spot on fore and medial tibia?, a band on 

 dorsal segments 1-5, narrow medially and greatly expanded at sides, 

 last segment except a narrow, longitudinal, central line, and the 

 ventrals entirely, yellow; flagelUim black, testaceous beneath, the 

 first joint yellow basally; wings hyaline, about twice the length of 

 the thorax. Inner eye-margins parallel; apical antennal joints not 

 curved; dorsulum and scutellum rather strongly punctured, the 

 middle segment more coarsely; first joint of fore tarsi a little dilated, 

 but not so much as in apeclosa and fubercniata; pulvilli distinct; 

 medial femora not serrate or dentate beneath ; first joint of medial 

 tarsi not at all curved; second ventral segment with two rather 

 large, approximate tul)ercles near posterior margin, seventh 

 apparently smooth; eighth with a discal spine. Length 11 mm. 



I.Kiwer Purissima, L<nver California (Chas. D. Haines;, April, 

 1889. This is the species doubtfully referred by me to mamillaia 

 Hdl., in njy first paper on I>ower California Hymenoptera. There 

 are Itesides the specimen before me, two others in the collection of 

 the California Academy of Sciences. 



15. Monednla nsitata n. sp. 



9 • — Black; inner and posterior orl)itf, inferior j)ur(ion of front, 

 8|)Ot l)efore anterior ocellus, cly|)eus except ba.-:al half, labruni, 

 mandibles except a[)ex, scape and following two joints beneath, line 

 on pronotum, tubercles in part, two snuill longitudinal central spots 

 anri a line near tegulie on dor?'uhim, lateral s|)ots on scut<;llum 

 almost united internally, line on pronotum and a curved one some- 

 times interrupted on niitMlc segment, po.stero-lateral angles of 

 middle segment and sometimes a spot on sides, femora except apic- 

 iiily and tibije except within and :i facia on dorsal abdominal seg- 

 ments 1-5. yellowish, the fasci.r on first three segments iiroadest iind 

 deeply emarginale anteriorly in X\w middle, the others sinualed. 

 Hecond ventral sometimes with a small lateral spot; last rjorsal 

 entirely blaek; anlenn;e dark t«'staeeoiis above: liend iind tln>rn,\ 

 2i\ 




372 I'KoCKKKlNdS OK III i: .\< A 1 >i;.M V <IK [1HS(5. 



very sparsely hirsute, the hitter iiliimst luide; wings sul)liyHliiie 

 about twice the leiijrili uf thorax. Inner eye-inarj;ins almost 

 parallel; thorax an<l scutelluin coriaceous, imlistinctly punctured, the 

 middle segment distinctly though not very strongly so; pulvilli 

 indistinct. Length 12 mm. 



$. — Similar to 9 hut slenderer and ditlering in the following 

 points as to coloration: clypeus except narrow anterior margin, 

 black; front rarely spotted before the anterior ocellus; the first five 

 or six joints of fiagellum yellowisii beneath; yellow of the orbits less 

 prominent: no central spots on dorsulum and no line on middle seg- 

 ment; a narrow yellow spot on the mesopleurse; the coxtc and 

 trochanters are more or less yellow, the tarsi entirely so; all the 

 ventral segments are fasciated, and the last dorsal has an apical 

 spot. Apical antennal joints not curved; dorsulum and scutellum 

 strongly and closely* punctured, the middle segment a little more 

 strongly: pulvilli large and distinct; medial femora smooth beneath; 

 first joint of medial tarsi not at all curved; second ventral segment 

 with two approximate tubercles near posterior margin, seventh 

 smooth; eighth with a discal spine. Length 10-12 mm. 



Montana; Nevada; Southern California (O. B. Johnson and D. 



W. Coquillett). Resembles very much the 9 of Bembex monodonta. 



16. Monedula puUa H<11. 



Moncdula piilla Ilamllirsch, 1. c, p. 14», 9. 



Southern California (O. B. Johnson and D. W. Coquillett). 

 Whereas \mtaUi resembles the 9 of Bembex monodonta, this 

 species is peculiar for its striking superficial resemblance to the $ 

 of that species. 



The $ o( piiHd IS .smaller than the 9 (length 10 mm.); apical 

 antennal joints not at all curved; fore legs with a long tarsal comb 

 as in the 9 : pulvilli large and prominent; medial femora smooth 

 beneath; first joint of medial tarsi not curved; second ventral seg- 

 ment smooth; not tuberculate; .seventh and eighth segments ? 



This species is remarkable for the narrow front, and long tarsal 

 comb of S . The type of this species ha.s, according to Handlirsch, 

 the clypeus black basally; in the five specimens before me none pre- 

 sents this characteristic, the clypeus being entirely yellow. One speci- 

 men is labelled Georgia, probably erroneously.' 



' J/, mamillala Hdl., which I have not seen, has been inadvertently 

 omitted from this paiKT. It seems to be near emarf^inata. 




1895.] NATURAI. SCIENCES OF PHII.AIMOI.PHIA. 373 



STENIOLIA Suy. 



Steniolia Say, Boston Journ. Nat. Hist., I, p. 366. 1837. 

 Monedula Cresson (iu pt.), Proc. Ent. Soc. Phila.. IV. p. 469. 1865. 

 Steniolia Patton. Bull. U.S. Geol. Survey, V, p. 364. 1879. 



Female.^. 



Middle tibi;e dilated 2 



Middle tibi:e not dilated (markiug.s luteous) dapHeata. 



2. Markiug8 of body whitish obliqua. 



" Markings of body luteouH." tibialis. 



>[ales. 



Tibia and lirnt joint of tarsi of medial legs not dilated (markings 

 luteous) (I up/iff ((a. 



Tibia and first joint of tarsi of medial legs distinctly dilated ... 2 



8. Markings of body whitish as is also the pube-soence of dorsulum 



and vertex - . obliqua. 



Markings of body lutecHis, the pubescence of dorsulum and vertex 

 brownish tibialis. 



1. Steniolia duplicata Pro v. 



Steniolia duplicata Provancher. Add. llyiii. Quebec, p. 414, f $ ■ 



Steniolia scolopacea Handlirscli, Sitzb. Akad. Wissen., Wien., Math.-natuiw. 



C'las-se. Bd. XCVIII. Abtli. 1. p. 510, 9 $ . 

 Steniolia duplicata Fox. Entoni. News, II, p. 19.i. 



This is, perha])s, our conmionest and mo.it varial)le species. New 

 Mexico (Cockerell); Nevada; Utah; ('alitbrnia; Oregon; and Ix)wer 

 California. The spots on the dorsulum may be absent, or enlarged, 

 the curved line on upper surface of middle often broken into spots, 

 or ab.^ent entirely; there is frecjueiitly a .<mall spot on ilorsuliim just 

 anterior to the scutelluni and iJie extent of black on femora is vari- 

 able. The markings of the ai)donien arc tolerably constant, but are 

 subject to .some variation and the flagcllum varies by having the 

 basal joint beneath only, or all the joints yellowish. 



From Lower California are three males and one female which are 

 on the whole larger than usual and the eye^j slightly though dis- 

 tinclly converge to the to|); otherwise they agree exactly with .■'colo- 

 parru. They may represent a distinct species. 



2. Steniolia obliqua Cre.s.s. 



Monedula obliqua Crii.saoii, Proc. Ent. Sor., Pliila.. IV, p, 4flH, 9- 



Steniolia obliqua ('res.son. Synopsis, p. 27.S; Ilundlirwii. 1. c. p. .')11. i'l I. f. 



i». ,?9- 

 ('olorado; liritish Columbia ■ Ilandiir.sch). 




874 



PK<X'KEniN(»S OK THK ACADKMY OK 



[i«iir). 



3. Steniolia tibialis Ildl. 



S/tiiio/ia tibialis HaiKllirscli. 1. c. p. T)!:?, I'l. II, 1. 1, ^ 9. 



Nevnda; Calitornia ( Haiidlirscln. I have not seen the t'ernale, 

 l)ut three males tn»m Nevada are before me. 



1. 

 2_ 



3. 

 4. 

 5. 

 6. 



7. 



8. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE XIV. 



Stipes ot" (ieiiitalia, Beinb/'.r sinii/aiis, $ . 

 Bembix tSpiiiolit, S . 



Bcmhcx connexux, S . 

 lion hex Sayi, S . 

 Ihinbex U-seripia, $ . 

 Bembex pruinosa, $ . 

 Last dorsal segment, Moiwdiila ])lana, S . 

 " " " Moiu'dnla iuberculata, S 



9. Intermediate femora, Bembex U-scripta, $ . 

 10. " " Monednla femoratu, S . 




1890.T NATCKAL SCIENCKS oK IMII I.ADEI.PHI A. 375 



SEinEMBER 3. 



Mk. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Sixteen persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication: — 



" Description of a new Genus and Species of Cottoid Fishes from 

 Puget Sound," by Edwin Chapin Starks. 



" New Species of Fungi from various localities," by J. B. Ellis 

 and B. M. Everhart. 



Sepi'emkeh 10. 

 Geor(;e H. Horn, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Thirteen persons present. 



Seitembek 17. 

 Mr. Charles Morkis in the Chair. 

 Twenty-three persons present. 



Skite-miuoi'v "24. 

 Mk. ("uakle>^ M()i:i:i- in the Chair. 

 Twenty-one [)er8on8 present. 



A paper entitled "Contril)utions to the Zoology of Tennessee, No. 

 2. Birds," by S. N. Rhoads, wa.s presented for publication. 

 The following were ordered to be printed : — 




370 



PROOKEDINdS OK TH K ACA DK.M Y oK 



ri895. 



CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE ZOOLOGY OF TENNESSEE. 

 No. 1, BEPTILES AND AMPHIBIANS. 



HY SAMl'i;!, N. lillOAl).^. 



The t'ollowiug is the first ot" a series of papers treating of the 

 collections of Mammals, Birds, Reptiles and Mollusks made for 

 the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia hy the writer 

 during a trip through Tennessee, in the months of May and June, 

 1M95. 



Entering the northwestern corner of the State April 29th, collect- 

 ing was carried on at the following stations in order of sequence. 



1. Samhurg (Wheeling), Obion County; April 30th to May 6th, 

 a small village on the eastern shore of Reelfoot Lake, at the mouth 

 of Indian Creek. Thi.« region lies at the foot of the Mi.ssissi{)pi 

 Blutf, which makes its nearest approach to the lake at this point, 

 the strip of intervening land on which the village is built being 

 abo\it a quarter of a mile wide. The bluff" is precipitous, rising 

 more than 100 feet above the lake in this vicinity, and clothed with 

 fine forests of beech, oak and chestnut, the first largely predominat- 

 ing. 



The bottom lands surrounding the lake increase in extent both 

 north and south of the Indian Creek confluence, and their whole 

 extent, to within a few rods of the bluff, is annually flooded 

 during high water in the Mississippi River. The flora of these 

 bottoms is of the mo.*it luxuriant description, immense growths of 

 of cypress, cottonwood, gum and maple fringing the shores and 

 extending in unbroken areas back to the deforested crests of the 

 escarpment. Beneath these is an undergrowth of vines and cane 

 which is almost im])enetrable except where the annual brush firing 

 by the farmers and woodsmen has opened a passage way, or the 

 grazing of sheep and cattle and the rooting of swine have destroyed 

 the underbrush. The lake itself is eighteen miles long, its width 

 varying from one-half to three miles, the greatest breadth being 

 directly along a line pa.ssing a little north of west through Samhurg. 




1895.] NATLRAL SCIENCES OF PH1I>ADEI.PHIA. 377 



It covers a region which, prior to the earthquakes of 1811-12, was 

 a heavily timbered swamp traversed l>y Reeltbot Creek which 

 flowed south into the Mississippi, and was interspersed with numer- 

 ous ponds and bayou.s. "Owing to the convulsions at that period this 

 tract was submerged, partly by the subsidence of the swamp, partly 

 by the filling up of the outlet of the creek, and thousands of acres 

 of forested land were permanently flooded from one to ten feet in 

 depth. The original vigor of this splendid growth is still evidenced 

 by the innumerable stumps and blasted tree trunks which stand in 

 and out of the water in every direction and which render the navi- 

 gation and fishing of these waters so vexatious to a novice, and 

 combine to make the most weird and impressive bit of scenery to be 

 found along the Mississippi Valley. In such an environment we 

 are not surprised to find animal life abounding in a remarkal)le 

 degree. 



Collecting at Samburg was confined to the immediate vicinity, 

 but observations and records were made on the route between the 

 lake and Obion and Union City. 



2. Raleigh, Shelby County; April 8th to 14th. A post village 

 located on the banks of Wolf River, nine miles east of Memj>his. 

 The hilly uplands which surround the village rise above the allu- 

 vial bottom.s and bayous of the river much as the same formation 

 (Blutl'I>)am or Loe.ss; does at Samburg, and the fauual an<l floral 

 peculiarities of the two regions are very nearly identical, with jier- 

 haps a m(ire obvious austral commingling than is presented at Reel- 

 foijt I^ake. Short i)icycle expeditions of five to ten miles were made 

 into the surrounding country ea-stand west of Raleigli. 



3. Bellevue, David.son County; May iTth to 24th. A post 

 village on Big llar|)eth River, twelve miles south of Nashville. The 

 vicinity of Bellevue lies within the western edge of the fertile 

 central bitsin of middle Tennessee, the country between it and 

 Na.shville closely re-sembling in soil, topography and faunal and 

 floral features the blue-grass region of Kentucky. The soil is a 

 disintegrated limestone with abundant rocky outcrop nf the same 

 and supports fine growths of poplar, walnut, ash, oak, hickory and 

 chestnut. A range of high hills runs east and west between lielle- 

 vue and Nashville separating the two branches of the Har|>eth. The 

 mean elevation of this region is from HOO to 700 feel altovc .«ea level, 

 its mean «lepre-t-it)n below the Highland Uitn Iniids King westward 




37^< I'KOC'EKIUNUS OK THK ACADIOMY OK [1851;"). 



between tlie central basin and the Tennessee River is IVoin 300 to 

 400 feet. 



Trips were made from Bellevue to Nashville ami southward into 

 adjoining parts of Williamson conutv. 



4. Chattanooga and Sawyer's Springs, Maiiiilton County; May 

 24th to June 2ud. 



Owing to their proximity, and the fact that my visit to Sawyer's 

 Springs lay within the above dates (May 28th, 29th and 80th), I 

 include both localities under one division. 



Chattanooga lies between the southern base of Waldeu's Ridge, 

 belonging to the Cumberland Mountain system, and the northern 

 base of the Lookout Mountain range, on the eastern bank of the 

 Tennessee River. Its elevation above the sea is about 800 feet ; the 

 elevation of Lookout Mountain being 1,600 feet higher, and that of 

 Walden's Ridge about 1,800 feet above the sea. The Tennessee 

 Valley at Chattanooga is much narrowed and circumscribed bv the 

 mountains. The bottom lands are very fertile, supporting formerly 

 a heavy growth of poplar, oak, gum, ash and walnut ; among the 

 foothills pines and chestnut oaks ai-e abundant. 



The valley formation is limestone ; that of the mountains lime- 

 stone overlaid by horizontal .strata of the coal measures, and topped 

 by the .sandstone table-lands which form the Cumberland plateau. 



Sawyer's Springs is a health resort on Walden's ridge, about 

 twelve miles north of Chattanooga. 



Its elevation and sandy soil present us with a marked change in 

 climatic conditions as contrasted with the Tennessee Valley inmiedi- 

 ately below it. Laurels, rhododendrons and hemlocks fringe the 

 streams; oak, che.stnut, holly, juniper and short-leafed pines give 

 the mountains much the aspect of such elevations in northeastern 

 Pennsylvania, and the fauna is of a similar character. 



Walden's Ridge bounds the Tennessee Valley from ('hatfanooga 

 northwest to and beyond Harriman, its precipitous walls forming the 

 eastern escarpment of the Cumberland plateau, its width ranging 

 from five to fifteen miles. Collecting around Chattanooga was 

 greatly facilitated by the use of a bicycle, trips being made to the 

 Georgia line, u|) the Tennessee, and up the valley on the western side 

 of the river. 



5. Harriman, Roane County; June 2nd to 5th. 



A town on the east bank of Emory River, near its junction with 




1895.] XATllt.VL MIKNCKS ()|- IM t U.AI )i:i,ril I A . -hS 



Clinch River, situate aruou<r the foothills of the northern extension 

 of Walden's Ridge at an elevation of 1,200 feet. The cliniate and 

 natural productions of this reprion are much the r^anie as those of the 

 higher hills around Chattanooga. The country around Harrinmn is 

 well wooded and some of the highest elevations of the Cumberland 

 range in Tennessee are found to the north and west in Scott and 

 Cumherland counties, Cross Mountain lieing 8.. "500 feet above the sea. 

 A day's trip was made to Clinch River, near Kingston, at the junc- 

 tion of the Clinch and Tennessee rivei-s. 



6. Allardt, Fentress County ; June 5th to Hth. 



A village on the Cumberland plateau, five miles east of James- 

 town, the county seat. The table land for many miles around 

 Allardt is remarkably level, and divides at this point the drainage 

 north and south into the Cumberland and Tennessee rivers. The 

 soil is rather poor, supporting a growth of oak, chestnut and pine, 

 the latter often monopolizing large tracts. The elevation may be 

 estimated at an average of 1,800 feet. Records were made and 

 some specimens taken on the bicycle trip from Sunbright. Morgan 

 County, to Allardt, and on the return journey from Allardt to Rugby 

 Road, in Scott County. 



7. Knoxville. Knox County ; June 9th to Hth. 



On the north bank of the Tennessee River, three miles below the 

 junction of the French Broad and Holston Rivers. Owing to its 

 elevation above the sea the mean temperature at Knoxville is about 

 the same as that of Philadelphin, !)ut the summers are cooler and 

 winters milder. 



The region is very similar to that of pans of the valley of East 

 Teiine.ssee already de.scribe<l, the fnuiui and flora partaking more 

 decidedly of the Alleirhenian elements found in the outlying spurs 

 of the ChiIlH)wee and Hav Mountain ranges on the southwest. 

 Most of the region about Knoxville is fertile, ndling, limestone larni 

 land, with (jccasional barren out('ro|)s and ridges covered with wood. 

 Several trips to the Holston River, and one up the east bank of that 

 river, in th(! direction of Swainpond Creek, were made. 



X. John.son City, \Vii.shingt<»n County; June 15th t(» ITlli. 



.\ picture.srjue town atnongthe outlying ridges and ibothills of the 

 Great Snioky Mountains, at the junction of the K. T. tV W. N. C. 

 Narrow (iauge Railway, leading up into the Smoky liange. with 

 the Southern Railway Sy.stem. Animal and plant life ^llow a decided 




3S0 



I'HOCKKDINOS OK •nil'; ATADK-MV OK 



[1895. 



adinixluri' of s{)ecies which ahouiul on tlie (lislaut nioiiiiiuiii sides 

 ],000 feet higher, aud soni^ coniinon eustern species not hitherto met 

 witli in the iState, are reconU'd. Decidnous forests are the rule, 

 but h)\vhind clearings are often covered witli a dense growth of pines. 

 The ehn-ution of Johnson City is not given in any work accessible to 

 me, i)nt approximates 1,400 feet. 



i>. Roan Mountain, Carter County; June If^th to Hord. 

 The Tennesfiec aud North Carolina State line fornus an acute an^ie 

 on the summit of Roan Mountain, the northwestern third of the 

 peak belonging to Tennes-see. The elevation of the peak above 

 Roan Mountain Station at is base is 3,000 feet — the total elevation 

 being (5,394 feet. Roan Moinitain Station is twelve miles from the 

 top of the mountain, and the country lying between these |)oints 

 along the valley and caiion of the Doe River formed the field of 

 investigation in this region. On the return journey a walk of 

 thirty miles was taken, down the headwaters of Rock Creek twelve 

 miles, and thence across to the Doe River Valley and Roan Moun- 

 tain Station. This ended the Tennessee trip so far as it related to 

 field work in natural history. 



On the summit of Roan Mountain we have a reproduction, with 

 local variations, of the fauna and flora of the Canadian zone. 



This gives place, at a lower elevation of 4,500 feet to 5,000 feet 

 above the sea, to the deciduous flora of the Alleghenian region with 

 a corresponding change in animal life, and this gradation from the 

 biological conditions of the north to those of the Carolinian fauna is 

 illustrated in a wonderful manner as one descends the mountain and 

 proceeds along the Doe River and valley to Johnson City. The 

 climatic conditions found on tha summits of the Appalachian system 

 in this region differ markedly from those found in New England and 

 the Middle States in their greater humidity, due to the frequent pre- 

 cipitation and presence of clouds aud fog. To a person who has 

 visited both mountain systems there is a marked resemblance in this 

 respect i)etween the climatic conditions of the southern Alleghenies 

 and those of the Cascade Range in Washington and British Colum- 

 bia, and the fauna and flora of the two show a like differentiation. 

 Another fat'tor which probal)ly has much to do with the peculiar 

 biological features of this region is the equability of temperature. 

 Roan Mountain, for example, being always cool, often cold, but 

 never hot in the .sense of the extreme heat to be found in summer 




1895.] NATIKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 381 



among the White Mountains, neither are its plants and animals 

 subjected to those frigid winter temperatures which their New Eng- 

 land congeners must suffer. In consequence there is a correlation in 

 the animal and plant life of these distant localities without identity. 

 In some cases this variation amounts to specitic values, in others only 

 subspecitic, l)ut in all, owing to their isolation, the habitat is clearly 

 definable. 



Tennessee comprises within its limits an unusually varied topog- 

 raphy, and owing to its proximity in the west to the influence of the 

 Gulf of Mexico by way of the Mississippi, and in the east to the lofty 

 mountain ranges, the State presents a fauna and flora of great diver- 

 sity and unusual interest to the biologist. The greater pait of what 

 is popularly known as West Tennessee is in the Louisianian-^' fauna, 

 including all the country lying west of a line running north from 

 Lawrenceburg, Lawrence County, to the intersection of the Ken- 

 tucky state line by the Tennessee River. Animals characteristic of 

 this fauna, which rarely, if ever, are found in Middle Tennessee are 

 the two Marsh Hares, Lepun aquaticus and L. paltistri.'< ; a Cotton 

 Rat? S'ujmofhni ; a small Mole Shrew, Bhtrimi ; a large Deer Mouse, 

 Peromi/'^rii.t: the Swallow-lailed Kite. ElfuitohlrK forjicatnx ; Missis- 

 sippi Kite, Idinia misauislppieuxi-* ; Snake Bird, Anhinga anliiiuja ; 

 Prothonotary ^^ arbler, Prutonotaria citrca ; Louisiana Tree-frog, 

 llijla viiirrrii .semi I'd. <(• lata ; Say's Chain Snake, Ojihiholus (/etnlu.i 

 Sdifi ; Ijouisiana Triton, Dlemydylus viridescenn meridiottaliK ; 

 Cyclops Water Snake, X<ttri.f ri/r(opiou and the Alligator Sii.ippcr, 

 Macroch' m ijs A i cj- rlltin. 



From the western boun«lary of the I^ouisianian tiiiiiia, as above 

 defined, tlie whole of Middle and East Tennes.'Jee, l)elow an altitude 

 of 3, OOO feet, is included in the Carolinian fauna. ( "haracteristic 

 animals of thi.-* fauna in Teiniessee are the ()posr-uiii, I liilrlfthi/.^ imtr- 

 SHj/itilis ; Pine Mouse, MlrroliiK pliirttn'iini ; lA'asI Mole Shrew, 



B/aritia .' an<l typical forms of the eastern Deer Mouse, Cray 



Spiirn-i. WoDij Kabiiil , ami the (iray Fox; also the Acadian 

 FlycatcIxT, Kin/ii<liiniij- nc/nlicii.f ; Yellow- breaste<l Chat, Irhr'ni 

 virciLs ; Kentucky Warbler, (ii'itthhjpiH funuimi ; Hlue-winged War- 

 bler, llrjiii'nitli()j>}nhi phiiix, and Hewick's Wren, Tliriiothnrnn 



'ZoogeoKTsphir nomenclature titti-J iHtliHt "I lir .' \ MI'm Hull, .\iiiit. 

 Mob. N. HiHt . IV. .Vn. XIV. 1H02. 




382 I'KdCKKDINOS OV TItK ACADKMY OK [1895. 



bewichii. Auwug reptiles may be mentioned tlie I'ine-tree Lizard, 

 Si'eloponis tiinhifatits ; ^v\n\]ous Toad, Eiuji/.iioiiui coro/liieiise ; I'ilot 

 Snake, Coluber obsolefii!*, and Box Tortoise, Terrapene Carolina. 

 Many of these are found in the Louisianinn fauna, hut attain their 

 maximum development and numbers in tlie ("aroliiiian. 



Elevations between 8,000 and 5,000 feet in the ("umberland 

 Plateau and the Unaka and Great Smoky Mountain systems of East 

 Tennessee, are in the Alleahenian iauna. Some of the representa- 

 tive animals of this area are the Red Squirrel, Sciiiniti hndsoniiis ; 

 Mole Shrew, Blaritia talpoidei* ; Brown Shrew. Sorex ])rrM»iatn8 ; 

 Canadian Warbler, ^^v/ra?jm canadensis; Least Fly- catcher, JBnipi- 

 donax minimHs ; Wilson's Thrush, Turdus fuscescens ; Dusky Sala- 

 mander, Amhh/sfoma jeff'crsoiiainoii ; Black Salamander, Desmog- 

 iiafhus iiicjra, and northern Spring Frog, Kaiia riamitans me/anota. 



On the highest mountain tops, in the evergreen timber belt, above 

 5,000 feet elevation, are found a few animals who.se position belongs 

 more strictly to the Canadian than the Allegheniaii fauna. These 



are the Mountain Deer Mouse, Peromyscus ? Great Red-backed 



Vole, Evotomys carolinensis; Bog Vole, Synaptomys f ; Winter 



Wren, Troglodytes hiemalis ; Golden- crowned Kinglet, Reguhis 

 satrapa, and Common Crossbill, Loxia c. minor. A few of the Alle- 

 ghenian reptiles extend into the Canadian fauna to the very summit 

 of Roan Mountain. 



The following annotated list of the reptiles and amphibians of Ten- 

 nessee includes only those species collected by me during the recent 

 trip. 



To this is added a list of twenty-five species, not observed by me, 

 of which there exist authentic records as having been observed or 

 taken in the State. I have also appended a list of twenty-nine spe- 

 cies of which we have no Tennessee record, but which are likely 

 to be found there. 



There is no area of similar extent in the eastern United States, 

 whose zoology is so little known as that of Tennessee. State geo- 

 logical surveys, with the exception of those of Gerard Troost, pub- 

 lished between the years 1835 and IH^M, have made no attemjit to 

 treat of the fauna and flora of Tennessee, nor can we find in zoolog- 

 ical literature anything which can be said to have reference to 

 the State in a faunal sen.se. I have been aided in making out the 

 list of additional recorded species of reptiles and amphibians by 




1895.] NATL'KAI. SCIENCES OF HIIII.ADKI.PH I A. 883 



reference to Dr. Holbrook's Herpetology, aud to the check- lists oi' 

 Yarrow and Cope of the collections in the Xntioual Museum. 



I have largely adopted the nomenclature and sequence ol' orders 

 and genera used bv Professor Garnuin in his valuable Synopsis of the 

 Reptiles and Amphibians of Illinois. The code of nomenclature of 

 the American Ornitholoirist's Union is responsible for any apparent 

 idiosyncracies of names or speilin:f that may appear. 



The collection numbers 270 specimens, classed as follows : Che- 

 loniii, 45; Sauria, 27; Ophidia, 46; Anura, 63; Urodela, 89. 



So far as I have been able to discover, the whole number of 

 species and subspecies of Reptilia and Amphibia recorded from 

 Tennessee is 77, of which 52 are represented in the collection; besides 

 these there are about 30 species which are likely to be found in the 

 State limit.>, making the approximate number of Tennessee species 

 and sul)species 107. 



h'KPTIJJA. 



Order CHELOIslA. 



Family EMYID^. 



Gonns TERR&PENE Merr.-m. 



I. Terrapene Carolina ( I..). Box Tortoise. 



Not oi)>erved in west Tennessee but found in thr middle and 

 eastern districts and nbuuiidiin'- among the foothills uf the Cundier- 

 lund and (jreat Smokv mountain ranges. 



Mr. W. E. Taylor has recently' suggested that Keiilncky :ui(i 

 Tennessee specimens of this animal may j»os.«ibly be entitled to rank 

 as a variety of T. c>iroH)iu. 



If by " variety" a geographic race or sni)species is meant, the 

 five specimens recorded below fhow tiuil .-ticli a c(»nclusion would be 

 untenable, the individual variations of Teinie.<see Kox Tortoises being 

 as ninnerous ami MtideHii;il)U' a« those of a like scries from fiu' 

 Middle Stales. 



A large sj)eciiiuMi kmim i naicinMo^:" li:i> an ebony iiiai-K iii;i-iron: 

 the unke<'le<l carapace is of the same groun<i, with nnmertnis spots 

 and snudl irregular figures rif gold scattered over each |)late; niur- 

 {finai plates each with a large orange s|)ot; top of head and anterior 

 surfaces of fore legs yellow sjtotted. Two younger specimens from 



' I'hk;. U. S. N'Bt. Mas.. XVII 18JW. p. »7H-Ji 




384 rUorKKItlNdS <>1' I'llK A(AI>K.MV <)l- [1895. 



Bellpvne are of the oranrrc and l)lack type with yellow mid Mack 

 plastron and strongly nuirked keel, typical of eastern examples of 

 8ame aire, and the same color pattern is exhibited hy the adult 

 specimens from Johnson City, in which the keel has almost disap- 

 peared. Specimens — iielievne, 2; Chattanooga, 1; Johnson City, 2. 

 Genus PSETJDEMYS (iray. 



2. Fseudemys elegans (Maxim. Wied). Wieil's Turtk-. 



Very alnindant at Reelfoot Lake as attested hy numerous shells 

 lying about the marshes. The young, from one to two inches in 

 diameter, were swarming in the tributaries of the lake. In all of 

 these the red neck-stripe was strongly marked. Of numerous large 

 turtles seen in the Wolf River bottoms near Raleigh some were 

 probably of this species. Specimens — Samburg, 2 ad. ; 15juv. 



3. Pseudemys concinna (Le C. ). Le Conte's Turtle. 



A specimen from the Wolf River has remarkably long, slender 

 nails on the three inner toes of the fore feet, the fourth being quite 

 short. 



Specimens — Raleigh, 1 ad.; Samburg, 1 juv. 



Family KINOSTERNIDJE. 

 Genus KINOSTERNON Spix. 



4. Kinosternon pensylvanioum (Gmel.). Mud Turtle. 



One adult specimen from Reelfoot Lake is not distinguishable 

 from the typical eastern examples of this species. 

 Specimen — Samburg, 1. 



Genus AROMOCHELYS Gray. 



5. Aromochelys odoratus (Latr. ). Musk Turtle. 

 Specimens — Samburg, 1; Chattanooga, 1. 



6.1 Aromoclielys carinatus (Gray). Carinated Musk Turtle. 



A Musk Turtle collected in Embry River, at Harriman, Roane 

 County, is very doubtfully referred to this species. 



Description — Carapace strongly keeled, convex, rounded and 

 serrate posteriorly, and covered throughout with imbricated plates. 

 Posterior borders of marginal and dorsal plates acute, strongly pro- 

 duced, forming a serrate dorsal and posterior outline. Plastron 

 subtriangular, widely truncate anteriorly, narrowed and emarginate 

 ventrally. Minute gular plate scarcely projecting beyond an- 

 terior margins of postgulars, the latter squarely cut in front, 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHII>AI>KI.PHIA. 385 



their lateral apices each forming the apex of an obtuse angle 

 whose anterior .-jide is formed by the transverse anterior face 

 of the postgiilar and the ol)lique lateral face of the pectoral plate. 

 Pectoral plates rhomboidal, their median suture longer than the 

 anterior (pecto-ijular) suture and their posterior (pecto-abdominalj 

 suture equalling the length of the lateral margin of the plate. 

 Abdominal plates rhomboidal, transversely elongate, their lateral 

 margins slightly convex, posterior margins truncate. Upper man- 

 dible emarginate with a well defined hook. A triangular eniargi- 

 nate rostral shield reaches median line of orbits. A pair of barbels 

 at symphysis of lower jaw; the cervical folds and tubercles nearly 

 obsolete. Crown and rostrum olive; black-spotted; rest of dermal 

 surface bluish-white; the upper head and neck streaked and spotted 

 with irregular black lines. Two black bands pass back from the 

 eye across and above tympanum and join on foreneck, reaching 

 thence to forearm ; continuous black stripes above and below this 

 reach from the temples and ba.se of mandibles to base of neck. Su- 

 perior surface of legs and feet and tail irregularly marbled with 

 black. Plastron, mandibles and claws olive yellow. Plates of 

 carapace olive, with black margins. The skull, viewed laterally, 

 shows a depressed iuterorbital, convex frontal and depressed occipital 

 profile. 



Measurements: Length of plastron (median; 41 mm.; greatest 

 width of bridge finteraxillar width), 35.5; width of carapace 

 Ijetween anterior margins of seventh pair of marginal plates, 53. 

 Greatest length of skull, 23; greatest width of skull, 14.5. 



The 8i)ecimen above described was found dead in the Emory 

 river, and had evidently just been thrown there by one of the nu- 

 merous urchins who were fishing near the place. The anterior h:ilf of 

 the carapare w>w missing. The animal was .'ipparcntly tuo-l birds 

 grown. 



A conipiirison with several alcoholic specintens of A. oiluratiify of 

 the same age, taken near Philadelphia by Dr. .Jos. Leidy. show.s so 

 many decided peculiarities in the Tennessee c.xampK- I hat I liavc Keen 

 almost induced to give it a new name. 



The most pron)iiient of these is the trunc-ileii ."-hape of the plas- 

 tron and the rhombic outlines of the iii>doiiiiiuil and [)ectoral plates, 

 the former wholly lacking the deeply clelt enuirgination ol' the axil- 

 lary border. The slmin: of the skull i> quite diHerent, and the 




386 I'KCK^KKOINGS OK TH K ACAI>i:.MY oK [ 1 M95. 



marinated ami serrate carapace ami peculiar ouloration very niarkc<l. 



From A. carinaiiis it is distinguished l)y its dermal coloration, 

 though it reaembles it in the imhricatioii of the carapace. 



Not having specimens of cdriiiatiis I am unahle to make the 

 necessary comparisons, hut I find Professor lioulenger's diagnosis of 

 that species, taken from Gray's types, to correspond too closely to the 

 Harriman specimen to warrant naming it anything else. Professor 

 Garman states that ('(iriiiulit.-< has no stripes on sides of head, which 

 my specimen has. The southwestern habitat of earhiatiis is another 

 rejison for suspicion that the Harriman turtle is distinct. 



Family CHELYDRID^. 

 Genus CHELYDRA Scli\veig;rer. 



7. Chelydra serpentina (L.). Snapping Turtle. 



This species abounds at low altitudes throughout the State. 

 Specimens — Samburg, 6juv. ; Johnson City, 1 ad. 



Family TRIONYCHID^, 

 Genus ASPIDONECTES Wagler. 



8. Aspidonectes spiniferus (Lc S. ). Soft Shelled Turtle. 

 Very abundant in West Tennessee, 

 ^ecimens — Samburg, 1 half-grown; lOjuv. 



Order SAURIA. 



Family IGUANID^. 

 Genus SCELOPORUS ^Vio^'Ill!Uln. 



9. Sceloporus undulatus nio.sc. Daud.). Brown Swift, Tree Lizard. 

 Represented all over the State below an elevation of 3,000 feet. 

 Specimens — Samburg, 3 ad; Raleigh, 3 ad; Sawyer's Springs, 4 



ad; Harriman, 1 ad; Allardt, 1 ad; Knoxville, 1 ad. 

 Family TEIDiE. 

 Genus CNEMIDOPHORTJS Wagler. 



10. Cnemidophorus sexlineatus (L. ). Six-lined Lizard. 



This active lizard was numerous in the suburbs of Chattanooga 

 along railroad embankments. 



I saw none elsewhere and was unable to capture any. 



Family SCINCIDiE. 



Genus EUMECES Wiegniiinii. 

 U. Eumeces fasciatns (L. ). Blue-tailed Lizard, Scorpion. 

 I found this species in the western lowlands only. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 387 



All the color variations defined by Professor Garman' are found 

 in the series collected. The " Scorpion " is well known and much 

 dreaded by the people of Tennessee. 



Specimens — Samburg, 4 jiiv., 1 ad; Raleigh, 3 juv., 2 ad. 



Genus OLIGOSOMA Girard. 



12. Oligosoma laterale (.Say). Ground Swift. 



Distribution identical with that of Sceleporxis iindulatiis. Abun- 

 dant. 



Specimens — Raleigh, 3 ad; Sawyer's Springs, 1 juv. ad. 



Order OPHIDIA. 



Family COLUBRID^. 



Genus THAMNOPHIS Fitzinger. 



13. Thamnophis ordinatus (L.). Common Garter Snake. 



Very few specimens of this genus were met with. A specimen 

 of typical (?) ordinatus was taken on the Cumberland plateau near 

 Clear P'ork Creek in the northern corner of Morgan County, but it 

 escaped from my pocket. A small individual in bad state of pre- 

 servation was examined at Samburg and thrown away. 



Specimens — Samburg, 1 juv. ad. 



14. Thamnophis ordinatus obscurus (Cope). Plain Garter Snake. 



A large garter snake which I found in a mutilated condition on 

 the road from Cloudland to Roan Mountain Station is doubtfully 

 referred to this variety. It has nineteen rows of scales and seven 

 labial.s, and was originally about 30 inches long and an inch in 

 diameter at the thickest part. The color of the back is a uniform 

 greenish bronze without spots or lines saving a yellowish vertebral 

 8tri[Xi covering the median row and half of each of the two adjoining 

 rows of dorsal scales. The gastrostegal scales are of a uniform 

 deep greenish azure hue. The head is dark bronze without n)ark- 

 ings. 



Specimen: Base of Roan Mt. (3,500 ft.), Carter Co., 1 ad. 



Oenui NATRIX I.inirenti. 

 16. Natrix sipedon 'L.). spotted Water Snake. 



The series of smaller water snakes from Reelfoot Lake plainly 

 demonstrates that the so-called " varieties" faneiatiu< and rhomhifer 

 • Kept, it .^mphU). of Ill.s. p. U.-iH-o. 




388 PBOCEEDINOS OK THK ACADEMY OF [ 1 S95. 



hnve no correlatiDii with thniml or geographic conditions, but are the 

 result ot" individual variation, ot" age, and, in some instances, of sex 

 and seaaon. No specimens of" " variety " enithnxjader wore taken 

 hut the same remarks are undouhtcdly applicable to that i)hase also. 

 Strictly speaking, these names have no place in nomenclature save as 

 pure synonyms of sipedo)i, the first name applied by Linnaeus to this 

 species. As trinomials they are inapplicable, for the same reason, 

 and the sooner herpetologists are willing to confine the use of trino- 

 mials to geographic races of constant and definable characters the 

 better it will be for that branch of science. In the case of N. sijiedon 

 the use of these varietal names even in the liberal sense of a color 

 phase is objectionable, as there are innumerable intermediate varia- 

 tions between the forms so designated which defy classification and 

 which are as fully entitled to varietal rank as those already pro- 

 posed. An instance of this is exhibited by one of the Samburg 

 specimens which so closely resembled a blacksnake that I had origi- 

 nally put it in the same jar with a Bascanlon from that locality. This 

 specimen, apart from its color, is a typical N. isipedon. In life it 

 was dull black over the whole upper surface, below clear white with 

 fine mottling and shading of steel blue across the bases of the 

 gastrosteges. There are no traces of spots or bands above, either on 

 the outer dermal covering or on the portions of the underlying skin 

 which have been exposed by handling. Prof. Garman mentions that 

 sometimes the upper colors are uniform, from which I infer he means 

 without spots, but Prof Cope^ makes no mention of such a phase. 

 The whiteness of the lower parts in the Samburg specimen seems in- 

 iiiconsietent with the idea suggested to me by Mr. A. E. Brown, that 

 it is an example of melanism. It may be stated in this connection that 

 Mr. Brown, who has perhaps seen and handled more of these snakes 

 than any one in America, had never seen a black one before. See, 

 however, Tropidonotns niger of Hoi brook. 



Of the specimens from middle and east Tennessee all belong to the 

 (sipedoiv-fasciaiuH types, some with the dorsal hands continuous on the 

 sides. In one from Walden's Ridge some of the dorsal bands are 

 continuous, interspersed by large quadrate lateral blotches alter- 

 nately distributed on either side with their upj)er corners meeting 

 along the vertebral line. 



' Chars. & Vara. Snakes N. A.. Proc. N. Mus., XIV, 1892. 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 389 



Two specimens from the Nolachucky and Tennessee Rivers are 

 alike in their rusty olive upper shades and orange- yellow bellies 

 finely spotted with sparse black dots. In one of these the dark 

 dor*al blotches are rhombiform and confluent: in the other they are 

 square, separated by light, transverse bands and alternated along the 

 sides by smaller squares of the same color. In another specimen 

 from the Nolachucky the general appearance is similar to these but 

 the belly is white, nearly spotless anteriorly but darkly blotched and 

 tesselated with black, distally. The dorsal pattern is a curious mix- 

 ture of those exhibited by the two specimens described in the pre- 

 ceding paragraph. Young specimens from Bellevue and Roan 

 Mountain show similar inconsistencies with any popular or scientific 

 cla.ssification. 



Specimens: Samburg, 6 ad. ; Bellevue, 2 juv. ; Sawyer's S{)rings, 

 "2 ad.; Harrimau, 1 juv.; Knoxville, 1 ad.; near Greeneville, 

 (Nolachucky Riv.}, 2 ad. ; Doe River (4,000 ft.), 1 juv. 



16. Natrix cyclopion (F)uin. Bihr.l. Cyilops Water Snake. 



Four specimens of this huge water snake from Samburg are 

 remarkably uniform in coloration. The upper ground is dark olive. 

 Beginning at the base of the skull irregular squarish blotches of 

 black alternating with patches of the ground color extend almost to 

 the end of the tail and occupy the middle eight rows of dorsal scutes. 

 On the sides, opposite the olive dorsal squares and touching the 

 i-orner of tlie black dorsal s(|uares are squares of the same size and 

 color reaching to and invading the abdominal scutes. The whole 

 efffct is a regular cliecker-board pattern. The lower head and neck 

 are yelhjw, unspotted. Remainder of lower parts becoming paler 

 yellow distally and increasingly blotched with alternating double 

 and treble rows of rounded S[)0t8 on the l)ases of the gastrosteges 

 until at the ventral region they assume a checker-work pattern 

 similar t(j that of the back. The three largest specimens have 

 twenty-seven dorsal scale rows, the smallest, twenty-five. The largest 

 specimen was nearlv five feet long and contained two cat-fish, one of 

 which would weigh a pound ami a half and whose j)ectoral spines 

 |)rotruded through the skin of the snake nearly an inch on either 

 side of the abdomen. 



This species was abundant r)n the shores of Reelfoot I.,ake and 

 its lari^'e, triangular head, thick bodv and similar c<)]or pattern 



I 




300 PROCEEDINGS OF THK ACADKMY OK [1895. 



prevent its being distingnislied by the natives of tliat locality from 

 the deadly moccasin, with which they almost invariably confound it. 

 The original spelling of the specific name for this species, cyclopion, 

 should he adhered to. • 



8|)ecimens: Samburg, 3 ad.; 1 juv. 



17. Natrix leberis (L.). .Seven-striped Water Snake. 



Not seen except in the central basin. In a large specimen from 

 Bellevue there are no black dorsal stripe.*!. The back is uniibrm 

 olive brown with a pale whitish stripe along margins of outer dors^al 

 scutes, succeeded by a blackish stripe on edges of abdominal scutes 

 which is distinct from the next yellow stripe anteriorly, but is 

 merged ventrally with the inner black stripe of belly. The median, 

 yellow, inferior stripe disappears on the abdomen, and wholly fades 

 in the black of the ventral and caudal regions. This results in the 

 diminution of the pectoral pattern of five light and four dark stripes 

 to an abdominal striation of two obscure light lateral lines, and an 

 unbroken intervening dark area formed by the confluence of the 

 seven light and dark median stripes of the pectoral region into a 

 single band of black. Two young, taken with this specimen, 

 show faint vertebral and costal stripes, and in all other respects 

 are normal. The above description seems to show an approach to 

 grahumi, but its nineteen dorsal scale rows and color pattern are 

 nearer leberis. Its peculiarities lend some color to the idea that 

 grahami is not specifically separable from leberis, and Prof Cope's 

 diagnosis of the two (Proc. Nat. Mas., XIV, p. 667) shows, when 

 compared with that of Prof. Garman (Rept. & Amphib. Ills., p. 

 272j, that their characters are quite variable, and this, too, in the 

 direction of each other. 



Specimens — Bellevue, 1 ad., 2 juv.; Richland Creek near Nash- 

 ville, 1 juv. 



Genus OPHEODRYS Fitzinger. 



18. Opheodrys aestivus (L.). Gretn Summer Snake. 



Rep'^rted from all over the State, but only seen by me on the 

 Cumberland plateau in Scott and Fentress counties. It is probable 

 most of the "Green Snakes" of ea.st Tennessee are Liopeltin 

 vemalis (De Kay-Harl.), none of which were taken. 



Specimens — 3 m. W. Rugby Road, Scott County, 1 juv.; 8 m. E. 

 AUardt, 1 ad. 




1895.] NATURAL. SCIENCES OF PHILADKLFHIA. 391 



Geaus BASCANION IJaird, Girard. 



19. Bascanion constrictor ( L.). Black Suake. 

 Fairly abundant in sparsely settled districts. 

 Specimens — Samburg, 1 ad.; Bellevue, 1 ad. 



Genus COLUBER Linnicus. 



20. Coluber obsoletus Say. Pilot Snake. 



I found this the most abundant snake throughout the State. The 

 large sj>ecimen from Fentress County has only twenty-three rows of 

 dorsal scales, all the others have twenty-five, bringing the average 

 far below the normal number for this species, which is never le>s 

 than twenty- five, and often reaches twenty-nine rows. In the tweut}- 

 five-rowed specimen the prevailing color is black, with slight 

 marbling of gray above. The supralabials and anterior lower 

 scutes are white, becoming heavily blotched with alternating 

 quadrate spot.< of black (m the belly. The lower caudal region is 

 quite black. The dorsal color pattern is rhomboidal, and there is a 

 tendency to striation in the gray lateral markings of the fore part of 

 the body. The specimen was nearly five feet long. It is plainly 

 referable to the form described by Holbrook as Coluber aUajhani- 

 ensis. A young specimen from the same locality has the same color 

 pattern, but is much lighter. 



Three specimens from Sand)urg exhibit very instructive char- 

 acters. The smallest, a half grown specimen, has a gray-black 

 ground with a black dorsal row of separated rhomboid blotches 

 and a similar row of blotches on each .side which are alternate 

 to the dorsal ones, but do not touch them. The belly is white, 

 with alternating tessenc of black 8p<tLs on eitlier side in short long- 

 itudinal rows from three to five scutes in length, and one-eighth to 

 one-sixteenth of an inch in width. Another large specimen i.« 

 similar, Itut darker, the dorsal blofche.s less delined, and the lateral 

 ones merged into a dark longitudinal band with a superior narrower 

 band of gray traversing almost the entire length. The under side 

 is white mottled with dusky anteriorly, but with a runtinuou.H 

 median light stripe to tip of tail. It ia intermediate between al/i- 

 ghenieuMa and fjiuidririttatu.'*. A large Chattanooga .specimen i.« 

 intermediate between the .Mlnrdt and Samburg examples. No speci- 

 mens of the very dark form of typical ohmhtiix wf-re .seen, though 1 

 examined several other Samburg 9|)€cimenH which were not pre- 




•>92 IMtOCKEDlNGS OF THK ACADKMY OK [1895. 



s»rved. A study ot" Professm* Boulonger's diagnosis of this species' 

 I orroborates my own observations and belief that individuals which 

 may be severally classed under the varietal synonyms ullrghrnien- 

 iis, /iiidhclmerl, and K/tHoldcK may be found associated in both Caro- 

 linian and Austroriparian districts. As in the case of Natrix Klpeiioii 

 these facts defy any attempt to define geographical races of obsolefnx 

 or to apply names to them in tlie trinomial sense. 



Ophidians are not subservient to the same fixed laws of geographi(r 

 variation which apply to birds and mammals, and which have 

 enabled us to define with scientific exactness the faunal areas over 

 which they are distributed, to designate these races by trino- 

 mials, and even to predict the character of sub- specific variations in 

 :i given area upon our knowledge of the physiograpliic and climatic 

 conditions there obtaining. Though recent attempts to classify the 

 North American Reptilia and Batrachia by the code of trinomial 

 nomenclature adopted by the American Ornithologists' Union has 

 in many cases been a failure, it is not improbable that when reptiles 

 are collected in large series, and at different seasons from continu- 

 ous areas of country we may be able in most cases to define geogra- 

 phic races on structural characters quite as constant as the superficial 

 ones afforded us by sub-species of birds and mammals. 



Specimens — Samburg, 2 ad., 1 juv. ; Chattanooga, 1 ad.; Allardt, 

 1 juv.; 1 ad. 



Genus OPHIBOLUS Baird, (lirard. 



21. Ophibolus triangulas (Daud.). King Snake, Milk Snake. 



The only specimen taken has twenty-one dorsal scales and, in 

 nearly all minutiie, corresponds to Boulenger's description of trifin- 

 f/uhis. It seems desirable and proper that these characters should 

 be considered sufficient to specifically separate this snake from the 

 doliatus of Linnaeus. In doing this Prof. Garman has made the 

 curious blunder of using the name doliatus of Baird and Girard 

 for a variety of triangulus. 



Specimen: Bellevue, 1 ad. 



22. Ophibolus getulus sayi (Holbr. ). Chain Snake. 



The only specimen is the dark phase of sayi with minute dots 

 on a black ground and a heavily blotched yellowish belly. The 

 distinctions between typical getulus of the east Carolinian district 



1 Cat. Snakes B. Mus., II, 1894, pp. 50, 51. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 393 



and sayi of the west are so constant as to deserve trinomial recog- 

 nition. 



Specimen: Samburg, 1 ad. 



Genus HETERODON Beauvais, Latreille. 



23. Heterodon platyrhinus Latr. Hog-nosed .Snake. 



Of the three Samhin-f^ specimens one adult is noteworthy in hav- 

 ing the body and tail a uniform grayish olive above and ashy 

 white below, without markings. The head and neck have the nor- 

 mal black markings. 



Specimens: Samburg, 2 ad.. 1 juv. 



Genus CARPHOPHIS Gervai.s, DOrbigny. 



24. Carphophis amoenus iSay). 'iround .Snake. 



In the Raleigh specimen there are no internasal scutes. In one 

 from Sawyer's Springs the right internasal is partly developed 

 and in the other both internasals are present. 



Specimens: Raleigh, 1 ad.; Sawyer's Springs, 2 ad. 



Family CROTALID^. 

 Genus CEOTALUS Linnseus. 



25. Crotalus horridus I.. Timber Rattlesnake. 



I did not actually meet with this snake, but .secured the rattle 

 of a specimen killed near Samburg during my stay. They are nu- 

 merous in West Tennesseee. 



Genus AGKISTRODON Roaiivais. 



26. Agkistrodon contortrix (L. l. Copperhead. 



This snake is ahiiiidant in the western half ut the State. Two 

 specimens were caught in the runways of mice in the small 

 "Cyclone" traps which were used for trapping mammals. This 

 would indicate that small rodents are a favorite food of the Cop- 

 perhead and are systematically pursued in their burrows. 



Specimens: Samburg, 2 ail.; IJalcigh. 1 ad.; Sawyer's Springs, 

 1 juv. 



27. Agkistrodon pisoivorus ( I..itccp. ). Water Moccasin. 



Though the .Morcasin j.s accounted abundant l»y the jK-ople of 

 lieelfoot Lake, I diil not secure or positively recognize more than 

 one specimen. 



Specimen : 1, hall-grown. 




394 PUOCEEUINGS OK TIIK ACADKMY OK [1895- 



A.Mi'inniA. 



Order ANUKA. 

 Family RANID^. 

 Oenus BANA Liiinii-us. 



28. Bana pipiens Scbreber. Leupard Frog. 



The small series at my disposal prevents any discussion of the 

 supposed characters of the subspecies recognized by Prof. Cope in 

 his Batrachia of North America. The inconstancy of some of 

 these characters, however, is patent enough and the multiplication 

 of new trinomials quite unwarranted. 



Specimens: Saraburg, 1 ad.; Raleigh, 2 ad.; Chattanooga, 1 juv. 



29. Bana palustris Le C. Pickerel Frog. 

 Only found in east Tennessee. 



Specimens: Harriman, 1 ad.; 1 juv.; Roan Mt., (3,500 ft. j 1 ad. ; 

 1 juv. 



30. Bana olamitans Bosc Mss., Sonn., Latr. Southern Spring Frog. 



The most abundant of the genus throughout the State. 



Specimens: near Bellevue, 8 juv. ad.; Chattanooga, 1 ad. ; Har- 

 riman, 1 ad. 



31. Bana clamitans melanota (Eaf. ). Northern Spring Frog. 



Two large frogs from a spring on the summit of Roan Moun- 

 tain and within a few yards of the Tennessee State line, in Mitchell 

 County, North Carolina, showed such striking differences from 

 clamitans of western Tennessee that I was inclined to consider them 

 a distinct species. Similar specimens were seen on the banks of Doe 

 River during the ascent of the mountain, but none wei*e secured. 

 The Roan Mountain specimens are almost precisely in color and 

 measurements like Holbrook's figure of Ramt horiconens'iH from 

 Lake George and without doubt represent the same phase of vari- 

 ation from the typical .southern clamitans^ which we find in that 

 species in the northern States and Canada. 



Dr. Holbrook compares his horiameiiHU with fontinalis 

 (clamita7is) remarking on its size and color, and then says it cannot 

 be the Ra7ia melanota, " as it wants the 'yellow streak on the sides 

 of the head.'" 



' The type locality i.s Charleston, South Carolina. 




1895.] NATl'RAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 395 



Rafinesque's description f Annals of Nature, 1S20, p. 5) is as 

 follows : 



"25. Ranaria {Rana L) melamAa. Back olivaceou.s black, a yellow 

 streak on the sides of the head, chin, throat and inside of the legs 

 whitish, with black spots; belly white, without spots. A pretty 

 frog, living in Lake Champlaiu and Lake George; vulgar name 

 Black Frog : total length two and a half inches. Eyes large, iris 

 gilt violet. The anterior feet have four free toes, and the hind feet 

 five palniated ones." 



There is little doubt that Rafinesque had in hand the same large, 

 dark variety of clnm'dans which Holbrook had; the yellow streak 

 on the side of the head (which is faintly developed in the figure of 

 horiconensi^ and which is seen in the Roan Mountain frogs as an 

 irregular whitish yellow stripe from the nostril under the eye to the 

 angle of the mouth; is not a valid objection to this view. The fact 

 that Holbrook' s type also came from Lake George, and that the 

 name of " Black Frog" is applicable to it, is further proof of their 

 identity. The same frog from Lake Superior was named Rana 

 nigricunx by Agassiz in 1850. Profe.ssor Cope does not think the 

 variation of the northern form oi clamUaits constant, and he cites a 

 a dark I^ouisiana example. I am inclined to believe, however, 

 that we have in eastern North America a light colored smooth- 

 skinned, medium-sized Spring-frog in the ( "arolinian fauna, and a large 

 dark, shagreened Spring-frog peculiar to the Canadian fauna. The 

 name and description of /o»/i»a/«.i* of I^e Conte is not more ap|)li- 

 cable to the northern form than the southern, and he gives no 

 iiabitat. The name clnmitniix was first given to this species in Son- 

 nini and Latreille's Natural History of Reptiles, in 1802. Daudin, 

 who generally gets the cre<lit of this name, spelt it rltimntd in his 

 Natural History of Reptiles in 180.'^, and gives himself the credit 

 of naming it in Latreille's work above cited. Bosc would appear to 

 have sent thi-* name when he sent the types and description to La- 

 Ireille and Daudin from S<juth Carolina, and so far as J can discover, 

 he has a right to some credit for the name. To accord this to liini, 

 and at the same time indicate the publishing author, I have adopted 

 the formula, "Bosc Mss., Sonn., ]>atr." 



The spelling '' rlnmifntut" will have to be a<lo|iled, a.s it has 

 priority. 



It i.s not onlv bad tonii. luil iinsciriiiitic and inisleadiug to indicate 




3i>() PROCEEDINGS OF THE At'AI>KMY OK [1895. 



the authorship of publisliecl nmmiscript names by only giving the 

 name of the manusfript author, and it is to be hoped that a proper 

 forinuhi for such names will be proposed by the A. O. U. 



32. Rana catesbiana Shuw. Bull Fiop. 



Abundant in all lowlands throughout the State. 



A very large Samburg example is remarkably dark beneath, the 

 entire lower parts being coarsely ocellated and vermiculated with 

 blaek on a white ground ; the head quite black al)ove, the body 

 sooty black. A smaller specimen from the same locality is light 

 olive above, and nearly immaculate below. 



Specimens: Samburg, 2ad. ; Nolachucky River, Greene County, 

 1 juv. 



Family ENGYSTOMIDJE. 

 Genus ENGYSTOMA Fitzinger. 



33. Engystoma carolinense llolbr. Nebulous Toad. 



The specimens taken were found under logs in woodland, near 

 running water. 



Specimens: Raleigh, 1 ad.; near Chattanooga, 1 ad. 



Family BUFONID^. 

 Genus BUFO Luurenti. 



34. Bufo lentiginosus (Shaw). Southern Toad. 



Specimens from southern Tennessee approach nearly to those 

 found in the Gulf States, but the majority are intermediates. 

 Specimens: Bellevue, 1 ad.; Sawyer's Springs, 2 ad. 



35. Bufo lentiginosus americanus (Le C Mss. Holbr. ). Northern Toad. 

 Two typical examples were taken on Roan Mountain. They par- 

 take of the characters found in so many of the animals of this 

 humid " Canadian " environment, viz., the large size and saturated 

 coloration. One was found on the summit. 



Specimens: Roan Mountain (6,800 ft.), 1 ad.; (5,000 ft.), 1 ad. 



Family HYLIDJE. 



Genus ACRIS Duiueril, Hibron. 



36. Acris gryllus (Le C. ). Cricket Frog. 



Examination of nearly forty specimens from widely .separated 

 localities in Tennessee and Kentucky fails to reveal any constant 

 distinctions between (jryllun and creplt'i )!■•<, if both forms are found in 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. oi*7 



the State. Prof. H. Garmau considers the size of f/ri/lliis (1.4 in. ) 

 as given by Le Conte as the only reliable ditference. This is much 

 larger than any in ray series, and as the Samburg specimens are 

 smaller and more slender than those from the Cumberland plateau, 

 the theory that the southwestern frogs are larger than northeastern 

 ones is contradicted. Le Conte defines the habitat of (jrijUuH in the 

 south Atlantic States, and that of crepitans in the remainder of the 

 eastern United States, but Prof Cope's identification of the Smith- 

 sonian series allots specimens of both forms to both sides of the Alle- 

 gheny Mountains in such a way that faunal definitions lose their 

 significance. Such being the case I have lumped the entire Ten- 

 nessee series under the original specific name. 



Specimens: Samburg, 10 ad.; Chattanooga, 2 ad.; Sawyer's 

 Springs, 12 ad. ; Greeneville, 4 ad., 4 juv. 



Genus CHOROPHILUS Baird. 



37. Chorophilus triseriatus ( Wiedm. >. C horu.s I>og. 



A male and female were taken together in a pool on the Chicka- 

 mauga battle field, eight miles from Chattanooga. I heard the 

 voice of this species in other parts of the State but do not remember 

 it west of the central basin. 



The specimens have been mislaid. 



Genus HYLA I.iiiirciiti. 



38. Hyla cinerea semifasciata 'Hallow. ). Hal lowell's Tree FroK. 



The name of tin- typical eastern form of this species has a rather 

 peculiar hi.story. Later authors have adopted the name carol! netisis 

 of Giinther, TCat. Bat. Sal., B. M., 1M.-)H. p. 105). Giinthcr in his 

 synonymy quotes a ''( 'ulmnilti carolliHiisi.'i, Penn., Zool. Arct. II, p. 

 •iSl," and, contrary to good rules, our most noted writers in this 

 branch of science have used the numc binomially as " Jlijht cttrol'ni- 

 fnsi» I^ennant." 



Iieferetice to the Arctic Zoology shows us lliut Pennant not only 

 never imposed original binomials or polynomials on previously 

 unnamed species but that the "■('nlnmitii r(ir(i/liii'ii.-<l.'<^' of (Jiintlier is 

 mythical. The entire reference fo it l>y I'ennant is as follows: 



"Fr.[og] with the back gibbous, cinereous, and smooth: belly 

 yellow and granulated; on each side from the nose to tlw nmiji is a 

 line; the same on the outside of the thighs and legs; toes bu Hated 




398^ PROCEKDINQS OK TIIK A("AI»KMY OK [1895. 



at their ends. Inhabits Carolina." On the niartrin of the same 

 pajje he jrives the numher ''l.S" and the Enj^lisli specilic name 

 "Cinereous," belonging to tiie description. He gives no synonymy 

 nor reference to Catesby as in the description of frogs immediately 

 preceding this one, and tliere is little doubt that he based this 

 Cinereous Frog on a specimen in liis possession preserved in spirits 

 and sent him from "Carolina." On a preceding page he considers 

 the same frog as figured by Catesby, viz.: the "Green Tree Frog, 

 Catesby II, 71," to be identical with the "■ Runn arborea" of 

 Linnaeus. 



How Giinther could have imposed such a forgery as " Calamiia 

 carolineyms Pennant," on himself seems inexplicable and that this 

 nomen spurkim should have been perpetuated to the present day as 

 a valid name is scarcely less astonishing. Professors S. and H. 

 Garmau seem to have had doubts about the name carol Inen sin and 

 the former in his work on the' Herpetology of Illinois rightly adopts 

 the name cinerea of Schneider (Cahmita cinerea Schn., Hist. Amph. 

 1799, p. 174) for this species. 



On examining Schneider's description the mystery is largely 

 explained. Under the division "XI, Cinerevs" of his genus "Cala- 

 mitce " it begins with the following sentence: " In Pennanti Zoologia 

 Arctica II, p. 331, edit. sec. Calamita Carolinensis describitur sub- 

 eodem nomine veluti species nova." The remainder of Schneider's 

 description is a latinized version of the one given by Pennant al)ove 

 quoted. Giinther mistook Schneider to mean that Pennant had 

 given the Cinereous Frog a binomial and, without verifying the 

 reference "Calamita Carolinensis" gave it precedence over 

 Schneider's name cinerea ! 



Prof. Garman, in trying to correct Giinther's error has committed 

 a precisely similar one by construing Schneider to mean by the 

 phrase "describitur sub-eodeni nomine " that Pennant had used the 

 name "Cinereous" in a binomial sense, so he makes it (Synop. 

 Rept. Amph., Ills., p. 346), '' Hyla cinerea Pennant." 



I found this .species abundant on the margins of Reelfoot Lake. 

 The specimens taken strongly empha.size the validity of the western 

 i<emifasciaia forrn, described by Hallowell, as compared with Caro- 

 lina and Florida examples of cinerea. Among the more constant 

 distinguishing characters shown by my series, is the large size, robust 

 form, obtuse snout, relatively short hind leg (heel not reaching end 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHII.ADELFHIA. 399 



of nose), short, wide, black-bordered costal stripe, uo femoral 

 stripe, back yellow-spotted. Should a larger series from the Missis- 

 sippi Valley and the Gulf States show no intergradation, seinij'asciaia 

 is a good species and, in any event, has evident sub-specific claims 

 to a place in nomenclature. 



Specimens: Samburg; 3 ad., 1 juv. 



39. Hyla piokeringi (Storer). Pickering's Tree Frog. 



Storer's description and name (Rept. of Mass., 1839, p. 240), of 

 this species are the first published ones. He was indebted to the 

 manuscript Journal of the Essex County Natural History Society 

 for the description. This journal was afterward published in 1852, 

 and the manuscript referred to is given in the table of contents as 

 "Remarks on Hyla (Femoralis) Pickeriugii observed in the North 

 Parish of Danvers. By Andrew Nichols. ... p. 593." 



Storer was a good friend of Holbrook. He does not seem to have 

 published his " Hy lodes piokeringi '' as new, as he omits the "nobis" 

 used after such species. He also omits giving any author's name, 

 but gives the synonymatic reference, "N. A. Herpet. , Vol. III." 

 This refers to the first edition of Holbrook's work which probably 

 had not been issued from the press when Storer wrote his description. 

 This accounts for Storer not giving the page reference. Holbrook's 

 Herpetology came out in 1838, one year before the date of Storer's 

 work, but it contains no reference to H. pickeringi. In the second 

 edition published in 1842 the description and plate appear but there 

 is no reference to Storer. 



The whole thing is difficult to interpret, l)ut so far as our evidence 

 goes Storer has the best of it and sole claim to the name. It is 

 probable, however, that Holbrook had suggested to Storer that the 

 animal would be named after Dr. Pickering in his forthcoming third 

 volume of the N. A. Herpetology and Storer innocently so used the 

 name in his manuscript and inadvertently allowed it to get into 

 |)rint in that form before Holbrook had published it. Holbrook's 

 disregard of Storer's previous u.se of the name is inexplicable. 



Only heard in the mountains of the eastern region. 



Specimen: Roan Mt. (6,300; ft., Mitchell Co., N. Car., (200yds. 

 east of Tennessee line), 1 ad. i . 




400 I'UOCKKDINUS OK TIIK ACADKMY OF [1895. 



Order URODELA. 

 Family PLEURODELID^. 

 Genus DIEMYCTYLUS lialiiusciut'. 



40. Diemyctylua viridesoens meridionalis (C^opc)- Spotted Triton. 

 About forty of these Newts were brought alive to me by a boy 



who had taken them in a stream flowing into Keelfoot Lake. They 

 were the only specimens observed l)y me in Tennessee. The series 

 is remarkably uniform in size, averaging about three inches in 

 length. The coloration is likewi.«e remarkably constant; dark olive 

 above with round dots of black evenly distributed, becoming clouded 

 oa the tail. Lower parts clear, light yellow, dotted with black. Tail 

 strongly keeled above and below. The entire series lacks any indi- 

 cation of the lateral, red. Idack- ringed ocelli so uniformly present in 

 viride-scois. 



The name miiiia(ii.'< given by Rafinesque to this species in the 

 same issue of the Annals of Nature containing his description of 

 viridescens, must give place to the latter name, which was the first 

 in the order of sequence. 



The occurrence of the meridionalis ^Vp*' '^^ this species in the 

 Mississipj)i bottoms of Tennessee is of much interest and seems 

 quite parallel to that of Hyla cinerea )<ewlfasci(da above men- 

 tioned, both cases showing the close faunal relationship of this re- 

 gion with eastern and southeastern Texas. 



Specimens: Samburg, 14. 



Family DESMOGNATHID^. 

 Genus DESMOGNATHUS Baird. 



41. Desmognathus nigra (Green). Black Salamander. 

 Found only in the eastern part of the State. 



Specimens : Sawyer's Springs, 8 juv.; Roan Mountain (3,500 to 

 5,000 feet), 2 ad. 



42. Desmognathus fusoa (lint.). Dusky Salamander. 



Specimens: Rf)an Mountain (3,500 feet), 1 ad.; ditto (6,300 feet), 

 1 ad. 



43. Desmognathus ochrophsea Cope, firay Salamander. 

 I doubtfully refer two specimens to this species. 

 Specimens: Harriman, 2 ad. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 401 



Family PLETHODONTIDjE. 

 Genus SPELERPES Kaliuesque. 



44. Spelerpes ruber (Sonu. Latr. ). Ked Salamander. 



Tlie large specimeus from Sawyer's Springs were fouud under 

 log.s in dry woodland. The color in life was light brownish red, 

 darkly and thickly spotted with black. The larval Koan Moun- 

 tain specimen wa.s taken in a quiet pool of water. A well defined 

 slender black vertebral line reaches from the shoulders to end of 

 tail. In other respects it is like Prof Cope's diagnosis of S. r. 

 montamis, to which variety (subspecies?) it undoubtedly should lie 

 referred. A specimen was seen in a spring on the summit of Koan 

 Mountain. 



Specimens: Sawyer's Springs, 3ad. ; Roan Mountain (4,000 feet) 

 1 juv. 



45. Spelt-rpes bislineatus (Green). Two-stript-d Salamander. 



Very abundant under logs just below the tir belt on Roan Moun- 

 tain. 



Specimens: Roan Mountain (4,500 to 5,000 feetj, 7 ad. 



Genus GYEINOPHILUS Cope. 



46. Gyrinophilus porphyriticus ((jre< ii). I'oridiyritic .Salamander. 



The only specimen coming to notice was taken uniler the ujiper 

 bark of a huge hemlock log in the deciduous belt of Roan Moun- 

 tain at about 4,000 feet elevation. Its length is not quite five 

 inches. A thread-like, black, vertebral line extends from shoulders 

 to root of tail. The dorsal s[)otling is minute, the lower part.s 

 immaculate save the border of the lower jaw. A dark line from 

 nostril to eye. Color above, in life, pale salmon. This species 

 is not essentially an acjuatic animal, as the above capture proves, 

 the nearest stream of water being fifty yards from the tree on 

 which I found the S|)ecimen. 



Specimen: Roan Mowutaiti, near Rock Creek, 1 ad. 



Genus PLETHODON Tschudi. 



47. Plethodon glutinosus Kireiin. Vixid .Siilaiiiunder. 



This is the most abundant and uniformly distributed salamander 

 in Tennessee. None were fouml on Roan Mountain. 



Specimens: Sambiirg. 1 ad., 1 juv.; lialeigh, 7 ad.; Sawyer's 

 Springs, 5 ad., 5 juv.; Kiio.wille, 1 juv. 




■^02 PROCEEDINGS OK TUK ACADKMY OK [1895. 



48. Plethodon aeneus Cope. Wcb-footed Siilaniander. 



This species was fouiul associating with (/lufiiiofntx on the Cum- 

 berland table land near Chattanooga, which is in the type region. 

 The specimens were taken under the bark of rotten tree stumps 

 about three feet from the ground. Prof Cope states "the terminal 

 phalanges are truncate and slightly expanded at the tips, as in the 

 P. (j!iitl)io9tu<' In my specimens this truncation and expansion is 

 greatly exaggerated, especially on the hind feet, the tips of the toes 

 l>eing nearly twice the diameter of tlie phalanges; the latter are dis- 

 tinctly webbed and tiie soles and palms wider than long. The inner 

 toes of both hind and fore feet do not stand out from the plantar 

 circumference save as a right-angled border, being practically non- 

 functional as compared with the same members in (/hdinosus. In 

 other characters, including measurements, my adult specimen is a 

 duplicate of the type. The young individual is twenty-five milli- 

 meters long, but in all respects, except size, corresponds to the adult. 



Specimens: Sawyer's Springs, 1 ad., 1 juv, 



49. Plethodon erythronotus (Green). Red-backed Salamander. 



So far as I can identify the specimens on hand, this species is found 

 in both middle and west Tennessee. The series appears to confirm 

 the belief, based on collections from Pennsylvania, that the form 

 cinereus is not a geographic but an individual variation which may 

 often be found in direct association with erythronotus in a single 

 colony. Erythronotus, on account of its precedence over cinereus in 

 Dr. Green's original descriptions, should stand for the species, cine- 

 reus becoming a synonym. 



Specimens: Bellevue, 1 juv.; Roan Mountain (3,000 to 5,000 

 feet), 14 ad. and juv. 



Family AMBLYSTOMID^. 

 Genus AMBLYSTOMA Tsclmdi. 



50. Amblystoma jefFersonianum {(Jrecn). Plumbeous Salamander. 



The.se sluggish salamanders are very numerous under logs below 

 the fir belt on Roan Mountain and a few even wander to a greater 

 elevation. They seem to replace P. glutinosus in this locality. The 

 series is very constant in coloration, bluish black above, dusky below, 

 with a brownish yellow chin and throat. There is no spotting, but 

 a close examination shows a light blue pitting along the sides and 

 tail and over the chest and abdomen. 




1895.] NATCKAI. SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 403 



Specimens: Roan Mountain (4,000 to 5,200 ft.), 13 ad. 



51. Amblystoma opacum Gravenhorst. Ladder-back Salamander. 

 Specimen: Raleigh, 1 ad. 



Family CRYPTOBRANCHID^. 

 Genus CRYPTOBRANCHUS Leuckart. 



52. Cryptobranchus allegheaiensis I Litr.). Hellbender. 



A specimen was taken from the interior of a water snake, Natrix 

 9lpedoii. The anterior half of the body i? much macerated, but the 

 remainder is in good condition. The animal is about two-thirds 

 grown; the ground color a greenish olive, spotted, in strong contrast 

 with irregular transverse bands and blotches of black. The abdomen 

 is sparingly spotted with the .same shade. In all other specimens I 

 have examined the general shade wits leaden and the marbling 

 obscure or absent altogether. 



Specimen: Tennessee River, near Knoxville, 1 juv. ad. 



Lij<( of IiejJile.i and Amphibious Recorded from Tennessee not 

 Mentioned in the Frecedinr/ Annotnted List. 



Order CROCODILIA. 



1. Alligator MJ8SIS8IPPIENSIS (Daud. J. Alligator. 



I was a.«sured by Mr. J. A. Craig, of SambtiPL', that he had seen 

 Alligators in the Mi.^i.<8ippi near Memphis. 



Order CHELONIA. 



2. PsEUDK.MYs TRoosTi THolhr.). Troost's Terrapin. 



The tyfK,' WHS sent to Dr. Holbrook from the Ciunberland river, 

 probably near Nashville. Troost mentions this spt-cies in his list of 

 Tennessee reptiles.' 



3. P.sKUi>K.MVs mKKfxw.vi'HK A (Ilolbr. ). Hieroglyphic Ter- 

 rapin. 



The above remarks al.sr» apply to this species. The type of hirro- 



ijlijidiicii is in the Museum of thr Academy Of Natural Sciences of 



Phiiadt'lphia. 



1. M.\LA<LKMVH (;KO<;pvAi'm( A {\a' Sueur). Map Terrapin. 



IlolbrfKjk and Truost rtrcord it. the former from tlir ( 'iinibcrland 



river. 



' 7th (ifol. \W\>. Ten =., 1h|.«, p, :}!». 

 28 



I 




404 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896. 



5. Macroclemys LACERTiNA (Schweig. ). Alligator Suapper. 

 Numerous in Reeltbot Lake. This is the " Clitlonnm Tnn- 

 mlnckii" of Troost's list. It is pr()l)al)ly Ibuud throughout west 

 Tennessee in the larger streams. 

 G. Amyda mutica (Le S. ). leather Back Turtle. 

 This is Troost's " 7V/»»j/.r miticuK'' in the list of Tennessee 

 reptiles. 



7. AspiDONE(TEs NucHALis Agass. TennessBC Soft-shelled Turtle. 

 The types of this species came from the Cumberland river near 



Kashville and young of the same are recorded by Agassiz from the 

 headwaters of the Tennessee River. I observed an Aspidourcfen, 

 perhaps this species, in the Tennessee River at the junction of the 

 Holston and French Broad. 



The validity of this species is not well established. 



The ^'Trionyx ferox" of Troost's list refers chiefly to A. spiniferus 

 which was then confounded with ferox. 



Order SAURIA. 



8. Ophisaurus VENTRAi.is (L. J. Joint Snake. 



Recorded by Troost, and likely to be found in Tennessee anywhere, 

 west of the higher mountains. 



9. ?Phrynosoma cornutum (Harl.). Horned Toad. 



This is given on the authority of Troost's list. I am not aware of 

 any record east of the ^lississippi River. Troost's record may have 

 been ba.sed on a specimen escaped from captivity, as it is impossible 

 he could have mistaken some other Tennessee reptile for this char- 

 acteristic species. 

 10. Anolls carolinknsis (Dum. Bibr. ). Carolina Chameleon. 



I was frequently told of the presence of this species in western, 

 middle and .southeastern Tennessee. Troost records it. After con- 

 siderable search through the literature I am best satisfied to discard 

 Linnaeus's name principalis which Dumeril and Bibron have gone 

 to considerable pains to prove was probably applied to this animal. 

 Cuvier did not apply a binomial to it, as is implied by Dumeril and 

 Bibron. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 406 



Order OPHIDIA. 



11. Storeria DEKAYi (Holbr.). De Kay's Snake. 



Recorded from Tyree Springs in Dr. Yarrow's list of Reptilia and 

 Batrachia iu the U. S. National Museum. 



12. DiADOi'His PuxcTATUs (L. ). Ring Snake. 



Yarrow (1. c.) records it from Tyree Springs and Troost includes 

 it in his list. 



13. ViR(;iNiA VALERIA Bd. Gir. Valeria's Snake. 

 Yarrow's list names a specimen from Tyree Springs. 



14. ? Agkistrodon ATROFLSCLS (Troost). Highland Moccasin. 

 So far, the specific peculiarities of this snake depend solely on the 



statements of its describer. I saw or heard nothing of such a snake 

 that did not apply to A. contortrix. It is not impossible that the 

 animal may be rediscovered but the probabilities' are strongly against 

 it. The type came from Maury County, Tenn. 



15. C'rotalophorus cATKNATUs CRaf. ). Massasauga Rattlesnake. 

 Troost includes the '' i'rotdlux mi/iariiiM Lin.," in hie list of Ten- 

 nessee Reptiles, undoubtedly referring to this species, which repre- 

 sents mlUarhi.t in the Mississippi Valley. 



Order ANURA. 

 \i). S<Ai'Hi<ji'L>> iioLBKOoKi (Harlan;. Spadefoot Toad. 



This is the »S'. xolitarhis of Troost's list. 

 17. Hyla vi;K.'J|(Oi,f)K I.*; ('. Common Tree Frotr. 



S[)ecimeiis from Roane, ( laiboriie, and Shelbv ('(Jiiiitics are rec<)rded 

 ill Yarrow's list. Troost also gives it. 



Order UR()J)P:LA. 

 IH. DiEMvrrYLUS viKiDix K.vs ( Raf J Spotted Triton. 



This is the " Tritov dnrmiiK: Harl." of Troost's list. 



Typical virlfleftrniK undoubtedly replaces the race iii(ri(ii(nm/i.-< in 

 middle and east Tennessee and i.** the fVirm referred to by Troost, 

 whose researches were chiefly devoted to the region around Nash- 

 ville. 



19. Sfei.kkpf2< L<tN(!i<All)lM (Green). L«»ng-tailed Salamander 

 The "Siifumfiiidrn Imifff rninlatn" of Tnwjst's catalogue rt^fers to 



this species. See also. Bat r. N. .\mer. 1HHJ>, p. 170. 



20. Sl'Ei.Kni'K*^ (iirmi.iNKATfs f Holbr. ). Holbrook's Tritdii. 

 .Vnother species admitted on Troo.st's authority. 




406 rHOCKKDlNHiS OK Till'; ACADK.MV OK [1895. 



21. .\mblys'1X)Ma I'lNCPATiM (L. ). Spotted Siilaiiiaiuler. 



The '' Snhimaiiilni riiinio.'^a '' of Troost's list is this species. A 

 s|)ecimeii from Knoxville is in the ISiitioiml Miiseiiiu. 



22. CiiYPTOBRANcnus Fuscus (Holhr. ). Brown Hellhonder. 

 The tyj>e of this species \v:u« taken hy Prof. Mitchell in the Ten- 

 nessee River near Knoxville. Yarrow records a specimen from 

 Nolachucky River. 



23. Amimiutma MEANS (Garden;. (."on<>o Snake. 

 Listed l)y Troost. The most northerly record I can find. 



24. Necturus MACULATUS (Raf. ). Mud Puppy. 



Specimens fronj Tyree Sprintrs are listed. Troost also gives it a 

 place in his list under the name ''Menohrunchus latendis Say." 



Order TRAC'HYSTOMATA. 



25. Siren lacertina L. Siren. 



■ This species is given in Troost's list. 



LiM of Reptiles <tiid Amphibians likely to occur in the State, (rut 

 not yet recorded therefroni. 



Order CHELONIA. 



1. Onychotria tkiunguis (Agass.). Three-toed Tortoise. 



2. Chrysemys picta Herrmann. Painted Turtle. 



3. Chrysemys margixata ( Agass. j. Western Painted Turtle. 



4. Malaclemys lesueuri (Gray). Le Sueur's Terrapin. 



5. Aromochely'S C'ARiNATUS (Gray. ). Carinated Musk Turtle. 



6. AspiDONECTES FEROX (Wagler.). Southern Soft-shelled 



Turtle. 



Order OPHIDIA. 



7. Thamnophis 8AURITA (L. ). Ribaud Snake. 



8. Thamnophis ordinatus (L. ). Variations going under the 

 names sirtali-f, parietalis, obscura and graminea. 



9. Thamnophis radix (Bd. Gir. ). Transition Garter Snake. 



10. Natrix sipedon (L. ;. Variations crythrofjaster and rhomhifer. 



11. Natrix TAXispiLOTA (Holhr.). Great Water Snake. 



12. Natrix (jrahami (Bd., Gir.j. Graham's Leather Snake. 



13. Tropidoclonion LiNEATiM (Hallow.). Lined Snake. 



14. Storeria otciPiTOMAci'LATA (Storerj. Storer's Snake. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIKNCES OK PHILADELPHIA. 407 



15. Abastor ERYTHROGRAMMis (Daud. ). Red-lined Snake, 

 Hoop Snake. 



16. Farancia abacura (Holbr. j. Red-bellied Horn Snake.' 



17. LiOPELTis' VERNALI8 (De Kay). Green Snake. Spring 

 Snake. 



18. PiTL'OPHIS CATENIFER SAYI (Schl. j. Bull Snake. 



19. Coluber guttatus L. Corn Snake. 



20. Heterodox simus (L.). Hognose Snake. 



21. Haldea STRIATULA (L. ). Little Striped Snake. 



22. Virginia elegaks (Kenn. ). Kenuicott's Brown Snake. 



Order ANURA. 



23. Rana sylvatica Le C. Wood Frog. 



24. Hyla pquirella Bosc. ms8., Soun., Latr. Squirrel P^rog. 



Order URODELA. 



25. Hemidactylium .scutatum (Schl.;. Four-toed Salamander. 



26. Chondrotus microstomus (Cope). Small-headed Salaman- 

 der. 



27. Amblystoma tigrinum (Green). Tiger Salamander. 



2H. Amblystoma consper-sum fCopej. Sprinkled Salamander. 



29. Amblystoma talpoideum (Holbr. ). Mole Salamander. 



Order TRACHYSTOMATA. 



30. Pseudobraxchus .striatus (Le C. ). Striated Siren. 



' .Mr. B. C. .Miles, of Brownsville, Tennessee, writes nic that he has taken 

 thi.s snake in the bottoms. 



^ I here adopt Fitziuger's genus in good faith. He made Herpeiodr^'as 

 /nVo/or of Schlegel the ty IK- of this geiiuri. Should it prove tliat Prof. Cojkj's 

 aasertion ( I*r<K'. K. N. Sci.. I'liila.. IHiiD, p. o'i'M. that this species is Kenerically 

 similar to our Z'<;'/wj//.y, id incorrect, there seems to l»c no other generic name' 

 strictly apiilicable to it. I'rof. (ojk's appropriation of 1-itzinger's genus Liopcl- 

 tis tin his own (Proc. N. Mus., Vol. XIV. p. 020) is not only inconsistent with his 

 well-known views on the " catalogue names " of that author, hut is in plain 

 violation of the "('o<le." 




408 



PKOCEEDINGS OF THK, ACADEMY OF 



[1895. 



PRELIMINARY NOTE ON A NEW ALKALI MINERAL. 

 BY WARRKN M. KOOTE. 



While searching recently at Borax Lake, California, for the rare 

 species Sulphohalite, Mr. ('. H. Northup discovered what he con- 

 sidered to be a new form of that mineral. 



The crystals were found during a laborious working of the tailings 

 which came from an exploratory boring known as the "New Well," 

 made by the Borax Lake Mining Company, and were formed in a 

 clay which was reached at a depth of about 450 feet. They were 

 at once forwarded to Dr. A. E. Foote, to whom the writer is indebted 

 for the material used in this examination. 



Crystallization, etc. — The mineral crystallizes in bright and 

 perfect octahedrons of a diameter rarely exceeding one centimeter. 

 Fractured crystals show in the interior a cross formed of faint lines 

 running perpendicular to the octahedral faces. Dark planes (which 

 were sharply defined in the interior of every specimen examined ), lie 

 parallel to cubic symmetry thus passing through the angles of the 

 octahedron and dividing it into eight parts, each part containing a 

 distinct group of strise. 



The same thing is noticeable in the clearest of the complete 

 crystals, a bundle of lines coming from the central nucleus to the 



centre of each face. The accompanying sketch will give an idea of 

 the interior structure as appearing in a broken crystal. 



This remarkable phenomenon is strikingly similar to that observed 

 in Bol^ite cubes (figured by Bombicci in a memoir on Mimetical 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 409 



Pyrite, Bologna 1893). Again, triangular markings on the surface 

 and a frequent parallel ifrouping of the octahedrons suggest a form 

 of interpenetration twinning, where the twinning axis is cubic as in 

 diamond. 



Color, varying from milky, pale yellow and greenish gray to 

 brown. Cleavage, imperfect. Fracture, brittle and uneven. Lustre, 

 vitreous. Hardness, 3.5 to 4. 



Chrmicft/ Ej-ami nation. — Easily fusible. In a closed tube decrepi- 

 tates violently and gives off water, finally fusing to a gray mass. 

 Fragments and powdered mineral are almost unchanged by long 

 standing in water and the powder soluble with difficulty on boiling. 

 Readily soluble with effervescence in cold dilute hydrochloric acid. 

 Qualitative tests made on clear crystals, showed the presence of 

 carbon dioxide, chlorine and sodium with slight traces of calcium 

 and potassium, making it essentially a ch/orocarbonaie of sodium, a 

 composition quite as remarkable as that of other species peculiar 

 to this locality. 



Though found sparingly, it is hoped that material can be obtained 

 for a further and more complete investigation than the writer is at 

 present able to give. 



The uamc North lpite is proposed for this new species, since it was 

 entirely due to Mr. Northup's indefatigable zeal in collecting, that 

 the mineral was brought to light. 




41<^ PROCKKDINOH OK TIIK A("AI>KMY OK [1895. 



DESCRIPTION OF A NEW GENUS AND SPECIES OF COTTOID FISHES 

 FROM PUGET SOUND. 



HY KDWIN CIIAPIN STARK8. 



COTTIDJE. 

 JORDANIA, new genus. 



Allied, but not closely, to Triglojm and Chitonotus. 



Body elongate, not greatly compressed ; head moderate, partly 

 scaled, with dermal flaps above. Mouth moderate, with bands of 

 villiform teeth on jaws, vomer and palatines. Body above lateral 

 line closely covered with strongly ctenoid scales ; lower half of 

 body with narrow, parallel plate-like folds of skin, running obliquely 

 downward and backward from lateral line to within a short distance 

 of anal fin, the posterior edge of eacli fold finely and sharply ser- 

 rate. Gill-membranes united, free from isthmus; a slit behind last 

 gill. Spinous dorsal with very long base, of about 17 spines, longer 

 than the soft dorsal; anal long; ventrals 1 + 5, inserted behind base 

 of pectorals by a distance equal to snout and half eye. 



I take pleasure in naming this remarkable genus for my teacher 

 in ichthyology, David Starr Jordan. 



Jordania zonope n. sp. 



Head 3^ in length of l)ody; depth 5^. Dorsal xvii-15; Anal 

 22 ; lateral line with 50 pores. Orbit 3§ in head ; maxillary 3.^ ; 

 longest dorsal spine If; longest dorsal ray 2i; longest anal ray 2^; 

 length of ventrals H; pectorals \ longer than head; caudal 1|. 



Body rather elongate, com pres.sed posteriorly, not much anteriorly; 

 the back not elevated; dorsal and ventral outlines almost straight 

 from head to caudal peduncle. 



Head not large, profile from front of dorsal to eyes nearly hori- 

 zontal and straight, then abruptly turning steeply downward to end 

 of snout ; lower profile gently curved from chin to ventral fins. 



Mouth small, the maxillary not reaching the vertical from front 

 of orbit; jaws about equal, or the lower slightly projecting; teeth in 




1895.] NATl'KAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 411 



villit'orm bands on jaws, vomer and palatines; eyes large, set higli 

 in head, a little shorter than snout; interorl)ital space deeply con- 

 cave, half as wide as eye; a slip of skin, half as loutr as the diam- 

 eter of the eye, over the anterior edge of each eye, and a longer 

 one over the posterior edge; a few minute fleshy slips on nape; nasal 

 spines long and sharp, somewhat curved backward; spine un pre- 

 opercle simple, hooked upward, a minute s])ine above it, and a 

 blunt spine below; posterior end of interopercle prominent, forming 

 a blunt spine; opercle produced j)OSteriorly in a flap, which lies in 

 a shallow groove in the shoulder-girdle; no opercular spine; gill- 

 membranes united, but not joined to the isthmus: a distinct slit 

 behind fourth gill arch; branchiostegals 5. 



Top of head to middle of eyes, opercles and upper part of pre- 

 operclee, closely covered with small rough scales; head otherwise 

 naked; body above lateral line completely covered with ctenoid 

 scales, not very regular in size, arranged in about 67 series; lower 

 half of body covered to within a short distance of anal with about 

 50 oblique plate- like folds of skin, the posterior edges of which are 

 finely and sharply serrate; the pores of lateral line are situated in 

 the upper ends of these folds; base of pectoral, belly and a narrow 

 space along base of anal, naked; fins, all naked, with the exception 

 of pectoral, which has a few rough .scales on the rays; vent situated 

 at anterior end of anal fin. 



Dorsal sjnnes slender, the first one inserted in advance of base of 

 pectoral, directly over the upper end of gill-opening; the fin some- 

 what rounded in outline, the spines not varying greatly in length, 

 with the excej)tiou of two or three on each side, which are shortened; 

 soft <lorsal a little lower than spinoui?, the rays sub-equal; the base is 

 a little shorter than the base of first dorsal, and slightly longer than 

 the length of head; ventral fins, long, inserted behind base of pec- 

 torals, by a distance efjual to snout and half eye, their tips reaching 

 past front of anal fin, their length ecpial to the <listance from snout 

 to edge of preo|)ercle; the pubic bone very prominent; pectoral fins 

 long and curved upward, the middle rays the longest, reaching far 

 pa.>«t tips of ventrals and front of anal to the space l»etween dorsals, 

 the ends of lower rays free; the width of the fin at its basr contained 

 ;^ times in the length of the head; caudal rounded. 



Color in spirits l)lackish, with traces of 4 or 5 darker cross bars 

 on back; sides below lateral line mottled, faint dark s|M)ts along 




412 PUOCEEDINOS OK THE ACADEMY OK [li:^*.*."). 



lateral line, more conspicuous posteriorly; a dark har halt' as wide 

 as eye, running from eye downward i'.crosi« clicek to anterior end of 

 iateroj)er('le; hordered on each side hy a light streak, a similar 

 l)ordered l)ar running across top of head, slightly turning around 

 |X)sterior margin of orbit, downward along margin oi" preopercle, 

 and entling on posterior end of interopercle; snout abruptly black, 

 lips dark; fins all dark and slightly mottled; tips of ventral, anal 

 and caudal rays a little lighter: caudal and pectoral dark at base; 

 slips on top of head black; belly very finely dusted with minute 

 dark points. 



This species is not uncommon in Paget Sound; the types are three 

 specimens taken on channel rocks at Point Orchard, near Seattle, by 

 Miss Maud Parker and Mr. Adam Hubbart, members of the Young 

 Naturalists' Club of Seattle. The largest of them is 4 inches in 

 length. The types are in the Museum of the Leland Stanford 

 Junior University. Unfortunately the life colors of this brilliant 

 species were not taken. There is, in life, much red on the lateral 

 plates and elsewhere on the body and fins. This disappears at once 

 in alcohol. 




1895.] NATLKAL SCIENCES OK PHIl.ADKI.FH I A. 413 



NEW SPECIES OF FUNGI FROM VARIOUS LOCALITIES. 

 BY J. B. KLLIS AND H. M. EVERHART. 

 Fomcs albolnteas E. & E. 



On charred trunks of Abies mbalpina Eng. Mountains of 

 Colorado, 10,000 ft. alt. July 1894. Prof. C. S. Crandall. 



Effused anrl laterally connate for several centimeters, about 1 cm. 

 thick and 5-(i cm. broad, inunarginate and entirely resupinate or, 

 in some specc. with a very flight, reflexed margin, of soft, spongy 

 texture and light orange color witliin and without. Pores large, 

 1-2 mm. diam., with a thin, membranaceous, white, toothed margin. 

 The 9|wre3 perhaps from immaturity could not be satisfactorily 

 made out. 



Orandinia fascolutea E. & E. 



On underside of rotten logs and limb^i lying on the ground, 

 Newfield, N. J., Oct. 1894. 



Membranaceous, soft, 1-10 cm. diam., bright-yellow, lutea, at 

 first and tuberculose-granulose, becoming darker and smoother in 

 drying; margin white, cottony or arachnoid; granule.* small, whitish 

 at the a|:)ex. SiKjres, elliptical, dull yellow, 5 — 6x 3 .". On davate- 

 cylindrical basidia about 15x6 //, with 2 — 4 short, 4 — 5 ,", sporo- 

 phores. The hynieniuru at length becomes rimose, ex|X)sing the 

 white subicuhirn. 



Peniophora trachytricba E. & E. 



On bark of decaying oak limbs, Newfield, N. J., Oct. 1H94. 



Thin, milk-white at first, becoming yellowish and thicker as the 

 hymenium forms, extending along for 6 inches or more, surface at 

 first minutely granular, at length floccose-tuliercular, resembling 

 Knciffui. Margin thin granular-cottony. Cystidia subcylindrical, 

 coarsely tubercular- roughened, or .sometimes with the \ipper part 

 smooth and the tip swollen. 100-120 x 10-12 ,". the free projecting 

 ends about 40-50 ,'/ long, ba.sidia clavate-cylindrical 12-15 X-Ji- 

 4i /'. iS|K)re8 oblong, obtuse. 7-Hx!^34 ;/, hyaline. 



Apparently allied to /'. hythiohle." Cke. iiiid Ma.ssef. 



\ 




414 PROCEKI>INa.S OK TIIK ACADKMY OK [1895 



Bovista oellulosa K. >)!: E. 



Heiieath the surface ot" tlie jjjroiiiMl. l-'ort Collins, Colorado, 

 Au^ruat 1894. C. F. Baker, No. 802. 



Inner poriilinni depressed- j^lohose, \-lh cm. diani., coriaceous, 

 toiii^li, <;rayisli outsiile, clothed around the sides with a honey- 

 colored, favose-cellulose coat 1-2 mm. thick, and this aj^ain clothed 

 with a thin, fjrayish-yellow membrane to wliich the soil adheres ex- 

 ternally lorminjr with this mend^rane, an outer peridium 1-1 i mm. 

 thick and separating from the cellular layer with a clean, smooth 

 surface. Capillitium homoi;eneous, filling the inner peridium, 

 olivaceous, composed of simple or sparingly branched threads 3-4 // 

 thick and yellowish-hyaline, with abundant, globose, slightly rough- 

 ened or wrinkled, olivaceous spores 3-4 // diam. 



This is closely allied to Bovinta circmnscissa B. & C from which 

 it differs in its cellular coat and smaller, not so distinctly roughened 

 spores. B. clrcumscissa has spores 62-6^ ," diam. 



Lycoperdon alpigenum E. & E. 



On the ground at the timber line, above, Cameron Pass, N. W. 

 Colorado, alt. 11,500 ft., July 1894. Prof. C. S. Crandall. No. 17. 



About 2 cm. diam. Peridium coriaceous, about 1 mm. thick, 

 brown outside and rimose-squamulose above. Capillitium rudimen- 

 tary, consisting of a few coarse, 6-10// diam., sparingly branched 

 or entirely disconnected, yellowish brown threads without any 

 attachment Sterile base occupying about i part of the cavity, 

 pale yellowish. Spores globose, nearly smooth 3*/'. diam., with a 

 short pedicel. 

 Capnodium Lygodesmise E. & E. 



On living stems of Lj/go'Ifsmia jiincea. Fort Collins, Colorado, 

 Oct. 1894. C. F. Baker, No. 293. 



Mycelium, cousistingof closely septate threads 4-6// thick, loosely 

 interwoven, forming a thin, dirty drabcolored coating enveloping 

 the stems. Perithecia numerous, globose, ovate, or oblong-elliptical 

 20-90 X 20-40 //, obtuse at the apex, with coarsely cellular, olive- 

 brown walls. Sporules not abundant, oblong-elliptiqal, 5-8x3//, 

 hyaline. The specc. show only the pycnidial stage of growth, no 

 asci being observed. 

 Acanthostigma acopulorum E. & E. 



On dead stems oi' Lif/Ksticinn scopulorum. Mts. west of "Steam- 

 boat Springs," Colo., July 1894. Prof. C. S. Crandall, No. 123. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 415 



Perithecia gregarious, erumpent-superficial, gloliose, 75-110 // 

 diam. surroimded by a crooked, branching, creeping mycelium 

 which bhickens the surface of the stem, and clothed with straiudit, 

 black, 3— 4— septate, spreading, bristles, 75-110 ,". long and 6-7//. 

 thick at ba.se, tapering above to an obtuse point. Asci 

 clavate-cyliudrical, sessile, 55-65x10-12,", 8-spored. Paraphyses 

 obscure or wanting. Sporidia crowded fusoid, 4-septate, the next 

 to the upper cell swollen, 22—30 x 4— 4j ,", slightly curved , yellowish- 

 hyaline. 



Distingui-shed from A. decastyhan Cke., by its smaller perithecia, 

 with more abundant bristles and by the swollen joint of thi- sporidia. 



Herpotrichia purpurea E. & E. 



On dead culms and leaves of Deyenxia Siik.idorjii Scrib. Eaj?tun, 

 Wash., July, 1892. Prof. C. V. Piper, No. 344. 



Perithecia scattered, superficial, hemispherical, i-ij mm. diam., 

 clothed with a dense coat of purple hair 90-140 x3-3A »/, continuous 

 or sparingly septate, soon deciduous above, leaving the apex of the 

 l>erithecium and the papilliform ostiolum bare. 



A.sci cylindrical, 40-50x3-7//, short-stipitate, aparaphysale, 

 H-spored. Sporidia biseriate, fusoid-oblong, hyaline, becoming 

 faintly uniseptate, very slightly curved, subobtuse, 9-1 4 X l']-2/'. 



Letendraea luteola E. & E. 



On decayed wood. Ohio (Morgan No. 1,109.) Perithecia gre- 

 'jarious, su[)erficial, thick-membranaceo-carnose, i-i mm. diam., 

 yellow- farino.«e-i)ul)escent above, mostly more or less collapsing. 

 Ostiolum short-cylindrical, stout. Asci cylindrical, 75-^5x5-6/', 

 attenuated below into a stipe 30-35/- long, indistinctly paraphysnie. 

 ♦>— 8-.sp()red. Sporidia. uniseriatf, oblong, slightly narrowed at c.i'li 

 end, but obtuse, often slightly inerpiilateral, uni.septate, but not lon- 

 stricted. pale- brown, 8—11 x3-3A /», lying end to end in the asci. 



Bosellinia geasteroides E. & E. 



On decaving stem of Anniiliiinrtd, St. Martinville, La., .Iiil\, 

 1895. Rev. A. H. Langloi.s, 2,404. 



Perithecia gn-irarious, superficial, «le pressed -g I obo.'^e, | mm. diam., 

 with a distinct, papilliform ostiolum, wall of the perithecium doulile. 

 the outer coat mt'mbraru«ce«)U», soon splitting into about 5 reHexcd 

 lobes, and resemltliiiir a minute (ifuMcr. Asci cylindrical, 100-110 




410 FROCEEOINaS OF THK AC'ADKMY OK [1895. 



(p. sp. 75-80) X 6 ,", parnphysate, 8-spored. Sporidia uiiiseriate, 

 ineqviilnterally-elliptical, soon opake, 10-12 x 5 //.. 



Rosellinia limoniispora E. i<: K. 



Proc. Acjul., riiil. 18J)4, p. 326. The habitat of this species was 

 erroneously iriven as on leairs of" Fnixhiiis. It should he on dead 

 sho()t.< or limbs of Fra.rlnu.^ buried in the ground. Mr. B. also 

 finds it on dead limbs of Ail<(nf litis and of Jiiglans chierea in similar 

 situations, its entire growth and development being subterraneous. 

 In the sp^ecc. on Ai/antlius there are traces of a thin, light colored 

 (cinereous) subiculum more or less distinct. The young perithecia 

 are ovate-globose, but become more or less flattened above. 

 Rosellinia murioulata E. & E. 



On inner surface of bark of Populus monilifera, Rockport, Kansas, 

 Dec, 1894. E. Bartholomew, No. 1,613. 



Perithecia superficial, ovate, slightly contracted below, 200-220 

 X 180-200 /', clothed with a short, white pubesence; ostiolura minute, 

 papilliform. , Asci cylindrical, 75 x 6-7 //. p. sp. 55-60 // long. 

 Short-stipitate, paraphysate, 8-spored. Sporidia obliquely uniseri- 

 ate, oblong elliptical, pale brown, 8-10x4-5//. 



The white pubescence soon disappears, leaving the perithecia black 

 and muriculate-roughened. 



Melanopsamma borealis E. & E. 



On inner surface of loosened bark of fir trees, Newfoundland. 

 Rev. A. C. Waghorne. 



Perithecia gregarious, erumpent-superficial, ovate- globose, rough, 

 250-300 // diam. , with a conic-papilliform ostiolum. Asci clavate- 

 cylindrical, 90-100 x 8-10,"., with filiform, somewhat branched par- 

 aphyses. Sporidia uniseriate, oblong- ovate, uniseptate and con- 

 stricted, hyaline, 14-16 x 5A-6i //.. 

 Melanomma boreale E. & E. 



On weather-beaten wood. Newfoundland, Dec. 1894. Rev. 

 A. C. Waghorne. 



Perithecia erumpent-superficial, gregarious, ovate, about h ram. 

 diam., subcarbonaceous, sometimes collapsing above. Ostiola at 

 first inconspicuous, at length conic-cylindrical, truncate. Asci clavate, 

 cylindrical, short-stipitate, paraphysate, 8-spored p. sp. 50-55x4— 

 5 ". Sporidia obliquely uniseriate or subbiseriate above, oblong, 




I 



1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILiADELPHIA. 417 



obtuse, 3-septate and slightly constricted at the septa, sometimes 

 very slightly curved, pale-olivaceous 9-11 x 3-3i //. 



Melanomma nigricans E. & E. 



On rotten wood. Ohio. Morgan. 



Perithecia densely crowded, forming a nearly continuous layer on 

 the surface of the blackened wood, small (150-200//.), subglo- 

 bose, nearly glabrous; ostiolum papilliform. Asci clavate-cylindrical, 

 short-stipitate, paraphysate p. sp. about 55 x 12 /x. iSporidia 

 biseriate, oblong-fusoid, slightly curved, obtuse, mostly a little 

 narrower at one end, hyaline at first, soon pale-brown, S-septate, 14- 

 17 X 44-5i //. 



•S^ine of the perithecia are smaller and c.jutaiu obloug-elliptical, 

 brown, uniseptate and constricted spores 8-11x5-6,". Diplodia. 



M. fusriduliim Sacc. has the sporidia about the same but the 

 perithecia are rather larger, with a cylindric-conoid ostiolum, and 

 are scattered or only gregarious and do not blacken the wood. 

 Melanomma snbcongruum E. &, E. 



On outer bark of Cottonwood trees. I'ojniluft vnniilifera, Rock- 

 port, Kansas, Sept. 1894. E. Bartholomew No. 1,584. 



Peritliecia gregarious or erumpent-superficial, the base remaining 

 more or less sunk in the bark, (tvate, slaty-i)lack and muriculatcly 

 rougliened l)el<»w, \-\ exceptionally 1 mm. diam. The ('()nical 

 perforated ostiolum black and shining. 



Asci clavate-cylindrical, 150-190x12-14//, p. sp. 114-120// 

 long, surroun<ietl l)y abundant, filiform paraphyses, ^-apored. Spo- 

 ridia overlapping-uniseriate, oblong, a little narrower at the lower 

 end, obtuse, slightly curved, ^{-5-septate, slightly constricted at the 

 septa, pale brown. 



Allied to M. medium Sacc. and Speg. and to M. juuiperinum Karst. 

 but ditlers from lx)th in ita much larger perithecia and longer asci, 

 and from the former in its 'i-5-septate s|)oridia. 



Ceratostoma melaspermum K. >^;: E. 



( )m rotten wooiI. Ohio, Morgan .\<». 1,041. 



I't'ritiiecia gregari<nis, burie<l, dt-prt-sfled-glolxtst-, meiiil)ranii('<'ouH. 

 i-i mm. diam., with a straight, black, erumpcnt beak about 1 iinn. 

 long, obtuse an<l often expanded at the top into a small, hori/.<jntal, 

 circular disk, and surrounded at the base with .spreading, light- 

 yellow hairs forming a loose, tomentuse- pilose tuft. Asci cylindrical. 




418 PROCKEDINGS OK TIIK ACAUKMY OK [18!>5. 



short-stipitnte, Ho-75 x 6-7 ,"., with faint pjirapiiyses. Spori'liii 

 miist'riate, navii'ular. 2-mu'Ieate. 12-15x5-0//, hyaline at Hist, 

 hecoiuiuj; opake ami nearly hlack. 



One would ex|>ect this to be Sjihaeria Inrrsfifd 8chw. , Syn. N. 

 Am. 1,021, l)iit the spece. of- that species in Herb. Schw. are not 

 distinguishable from Ceratodonw/la cirrhosa (Pers.) except in ijaving 

 a small patch of yellowish-brown tomentuni around the base 

 of the ostiola. 



Ceratostoma albomaonlans K. & K. 



On rotten wood. Ohio. Morgan. 



Perithecia entirely buried, large (1 mm. diam. ;, membranacco- 

 coriaceous, 1-3 together. Ostiola erumpent, ovate-conical, black, 

 smooth. Asci cylindrical, p. sp. 75-80 x 7 .", paraphysate. Sporidia 

 uniseriate, inecpiilaterally elliptical, obtuse 1-2-nucleate, olive- 

 brown, 1 1-14 X 5-6 //. 



The ostiola are erumpent in a yellowish-white subelliptical .<pot 

 1-2 mm. in diameter. 



C. avocetia C. & E. has the perithecia only half as large and 

 the sporidia smaller; the white spots also, under which the perithecia 

 are buried, seem to be characteristic. 



Amphispliaeria confertissima E. & E. 



On weatherheaten wood, Ohio. Morgan. 



Perithecia superficial, subglohose, 210-220// diam. slightly 

 papillate-roughened, black, densely crowded in oblong patches 

 i-1 cm. long and 2—3 mm. wide or often by confluence of greater 

 extent. Ostiolum papilliform, black. Asci cylindrical, short-stipitale. 

 p. sp. 55-60 x«/», paraphysate, 8-spored. Spondia obliquely 

 uniseriate, ovate-elliptical, brown, uniseptate and constricted, 

 9-11 X 5-6". 



Comes near A. Spegazziniana Sacc. but that has larger, short- 

 fusoid, sporidia and (sec. fig. in F. Ital. 135), slightly swollen each 

 side of the septum. 



Amphisphaeria pilosella E. &, E. 



On decaying wood of some deciduous tree. Ohio. Morgan, No. 

 1,103. 



Perithwria gregarious, superficial, subcarbonaceous, minute, 200- 

 250 /'diam., subglobose, slightly collapsing above, sparingly clothed 

 at first with short, |)ale, weak, spreading hairs. O.^tiolum papilli- 




1895.] NATL'KAI, SCIENCES OF PHU.ADKl.l'Jl I A. "119 



form, minute, but distiuct. Asci cylindrical, 65-70 x 6.", narrowed 

 helow into a stipe 25-30 ;> long, p. sp. 55-60 ." long, indistinctly 

 paraphy?ate, 6-8-spored. Sporidia uniseriale, lying end to end in 

 the asci, oblong-elliptical, uniseptate, but not constricted, pale brown. 

 7_10x8A-4.'«. 



Differs from A. Oronoensis in its larger, pilose, sub-collapsed peri- 

 tht'cia and rather larger sporidia. 

 Teichospora nitida E. & E. 



On dead stems of Riibns deliciostts, Rist Canon, Colo., April, 

 1M94. Prof. C. S. Crandall, No. 108, and on Rubn.s villoms, Nut- 

 tallhurg. West Va., May, 1895. L. W. Nuttall, No. 706. 



Perithecia thickly scattered, ovate-globose, 350-400 ,". diani., at 

 first covered by the epidermis which is raised and pierced In' the 

 black, papilliform ostiola, at length, when the epidermis falls away, 

 superficial. Asci clavate-cylindrical, paraphysate, 8-spored, 90- 

 110x11-13/1. Sporidia uniseriate or subbiseriate above, oblong- 

 elliptical, obtusely pointed, 3-5-septate, with a longitudinal septum 

 running through part or all the cells, 15-20 x 8-10//, pale, yellow- 

 ish-brown, slightly or not at all constricted in the middle. 



The West Va. specc. have the perithecia rather smaller 250- 

 300 /' rliani. 

 Teichospora minima E. & E. 



()n a dry oak [X)st, mixed with Roseflinia pulveracea Ehr. , var. 

 mirrii.^/tora, Rockport, Kansas, Oct., 1894. E. Bartholomew 1,591. 



Perithecia scattered, small 100— 110 /», collapsing, nearly smooth, 

 with a papilliform ostiolum. Asci clavate-oblong, short-stipitate, 60 

 X 12-15/' p. sp. 40-46/' long, paraphysate, 8-spored. Sporidia 

 crowded-bii^riate, elli[)tical, about 5-.«eptate, not constricted, 12-15 

 X 7-8 //, olive brown. 



Diflersfrom T. p}if/ni<iiii K. Si K. in its .smaller, <'olla|)sed perithecia 

 anil shorter asci. 



Lophiostoma olaviiporam E. <& E. 



On rlead culms of EUjihha ('an<ideu*is. Rooks Co., Kansas 

 March 18, 1895. Bartholomew, No. 1.694. 



Perithecia scattered or gregarious, buried, e.xcepi the erumpent, 



lliin, (lajtencd (».>«tif)lMm, 300x150/', culms mo.stlv Itlnckeued on 



the surface. Asci clavate-cylindrical. short-stipilate, |)Hraphy8ate, 



40-()0 X 12/'. 8|K)ridia crowde<l in the asci. olavate, 3-5-septate, 



2J» 




420 PROCEEDINGS OF TIIK ACAKKMV OK [ 1 H*).'). 



mostly constricted at the septa, yell<)\v-l)n)\vn. 20-27 x o-O /», 

 blii^htly curved, ol)tusely rounded above, gradually luirrowcd below. 



Ditiere from />. insidlosum in the sporidia heing without appen- 

 dages. 

 Lophiosloma Dakotense K. vv: K. 



( )n decorticated limbs of Cottonwood, Pupnlus inonUiftra. I )al<ola 

 Oct., 1894. Prof. T. A. Williams, No. 151. 



Perithecia trregarious, semi-immersed, subglobose, 200-250/', 

 tliam., black- brown, with a conical, slightly compressed ostiolum. 

 Asci clavate-cylindrical, short- stipitate, 65-75x10-12,", with 

 abundant, filiform paraphyses. Sporidia biseriate, oblong- liisoid, 

 uniseptate at first, soon becoming 3-septate and constricted at the 

 septa, nearly straight, hyaline, or at length subolivaceous, 15-20x 

 5-6 //.. Accompanied by a Plwma with perithecia erumpent-super- 

 ficial, 100-120 /', diam., soon collapsed to almost cup-shaped, and 

 with oblong-elliptical sporules, 2-3 x 1-14 /«, smoky-hyaline. Near 

 L.'(fiipl>x Karst. but is smaller in all its parts. 

 Cucurbitaria stenocarpa E. & E. 



On dead stems of Rhus dlversiloba. Pasadena, Cala. , Aug., 1M84. 

 Prof A. J. McClatchie, No. 766. 



Perithecia in groups of 2-6 together, bursting out through short, 

 narrow-elliptical, longitudinal cracks in the epidermis and not rising 

 much above it, subglobo.se, 350-400 // diain., brownish-black, rough, 

 collapsing, with a small, papilliform ostiolum. Asci cylindrical, 

 short-stipitate, 100-110x8-10//, paraphysate, 8-spored. Sporidia 

 uniseriate, oblong-elliptical, 3-5-septate, nnjstly constricted in the 

 middle, one or more of the iimer cells divided by a longitudinal 

 septum, hyaline at first, tardily becoming pale yellow-brown, 15-20 

 X 6-8 //. 

 Sphaerella Niootianae E. & E. 



On living bark of Nieotiana. HoUister, Cala., Dec, 1894. W. 

 C. Blasdale. 



Perithecia, mostly on light- colored spots, subcuticular, globose, 

 80-100//. diam,, the papilliform ostiolum barely piercing the epi- 

 dermis, and soon deciduous, leaving the perithecia perforated aliove. 

 Asci oblong-obovate, sessile, aparaphysate, 35-45 x 15-20 //. Sporidia 

 crowded in the asci, oblong-obovate, uniseptate, hyaline, obtuse, 

 scarcely constricted. 1 1-13 x 5-6 //. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 421 



Accompanied by a P/t'o.ytora not tlistinguishable from P. Herba- 

 riait fPers. ). 



Sphaerella vagans E. & E. 



On dead stems of Vuleriatia sylvatua Gray and Cadilleia 

 miniata Dougl. 



On the slope of Mt. Kichtoplien, N. \V. Colorado, 9,500 ft. alt. 



Perithecia scattered, subcuticular, becoming superficial by the 

 peeling off of the epidermis, depressed-globose, or subelliptical, of 

 tough, coarse cellular structure, perforated above, 250-300// in the 

 longer diameter. Asci cylindrical, subsessile, p. sp. 55-60 x 7-8 it. 

 S[)oridia biseriate, ovate, uniseptate, constricted at the septum, 

 hyaline, 12-16x5-7 //.. Mixed with the ascigerous perithecia were 

 spermogonial perithecia containing oblong-elliptical hyaline sporules 

 5-6 X 2 ,'/, but whether belonging to the Sjihierella or to Leptosphceria 

 cotif'itma E. it E. found on the same stems, is uncertain. 



Physalospora Corni E. & E. 



On dt ad twigs of Coniiis. Fort Collins, Colorado, March 1895. 

 C. F. Baker, No. 329. 



Perithecia thickly scattered, globose al)out 200/' diani. white inside, 

 covered by the blackened-epidermis, which is raised into pustules 

 barely pierced by the papilliform ostiola. Asci clavate-cylindrical, 

 70-90x11-13/', short-stipitate, aparaphysate. Sporidia biseriate, 

 navicular-fusoid, continuous, hyaline, very slightly curved, 

 20-26 X 4-5 //. 



Didymella Ricini E. & E. 



On deutl petioles of Iiirinn.i <-inniniiiiis, Louisiana. Langlois, 

 No. 2,414. 



Perithecia gregarious, minute, 110-150/', subcuticular, raising 

 the epidermis into black, tiattish pustules resembling a young 

 Vermicn/tiria, scattered singly or sometimes 2-3 in the same pustule, 

 O.stiola inconspicuous. Asci oblong-clavate, very short stipitate, 

 45-55x8-10/1. SjMiridia biseriate, oblong, obscurely nucleate, 

 becoming uniseptate, not constricted, curved, obtuse, ii valine, 

 l.VlMx4-4i/'. 



There is nc) struma or any circumscrilting line. 



Didymotpheeria Celtidis E. A E. 



On dead limbs of ('fUi>* orciileiitiiHa. Itooks Co. , Kansas, .Mav, 

 1895. E. Bartholomew. 




422 PKOCKKDINOS OK TIIK ACADK.MV OK [ 1 H95. 



Perithec'ia thickly i<cattered, jflohosc, small, iilxmt 300," dinineter, 

 coveivd l)V tlu- fpidennis which is raised into pustules pierced above 

 by the papillitonn ostioluin. Asci ventricose-obltmii-, sessile, 55-60 

 X 18-25.", obscurely paraj)hysftte, J^-spored. Sporidia cro\v<led-biser- 

 iate, obovate. uniseptate and slightly constricted, brown, 20x10;/, 

 or sometimes regularly elliptical, 20-25x10-12,,", both in the 

 same ascus. 



The asci soon disappear and then the fungus may be mistaken 

 for a I)ijil<i(U<i. 



Pleospora Coloradensis E. & E. 



On dead stems of Polemonhim coiiferfiim Gray. Cameron Pass, 

 N. W. Colo., above timber, July, 1894. C. F. Baker, No. 273. 



Perithecia scattered, subcuticular, sul)globose, 200-280 ,", diam., 

 of coarse, dark cellular structure, with a scanty mycelial fringe 

 around the base. Ostiolum papilliform, or conic- papilliform, per- 

 forating the epidermis. Asci oblong, short-stipitate, 100-180 x 25- 

 30 ,"., with paraphyses more or less distinctly branched. Sporidia 

 biseriate, oblong or ovate-elliptical, scarcely or often distinctly con- 

 stricted in the middle, yellow-brown, 6-8-septate and becoming 

 clathrate-muriforra, ends mostly rounded and obtuse, 27-85 x 12- 

 15,", slightly compressed. 



The sporidia much resemble those of P. jiinricola E. & E. , but are 

 not so much compressed, and the perithecia are smaller than in that 

 species, with walls of finer cellular, structure, having a reddish tinge 

 under the microscope. 



Pleospora juncicola E. & E. 



On dead culms of J»/«'((.s halticus. North Park, Colo., July, 1894, 

 alt. 9,000 ft. Prof. C. S. Crandall, No. 75. 



Perithecia scattered or gregarious, depressed-globose, 110-150,'/ 

 diam., covered by the cuticle, then sul)emergent. Ostioluin slightly 

 papilliform, soon perforated. Asci oblong, short-stipitate, broadly 

 rounded above, obscurely paraphysate, 75-110x25-80,'/. Sporidia 

 biseriate, elliptical, compressed, mostly not much constricted in the 

 middle, 25-35 X 15-18 ,"., and 10-12 ,". thick, golden-yellow, about 

 7-septate, and when viewed on the flattened sides, densely clathrate- 

 rauriform, with about 4 rows of cells 4,". diam., but when seen edge- 

 wise, simply 5-7-septate. 




1895.] NATIIKAJ. SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 423 



Leptosphaeria lethalis E. & E. 



On dead steins of Penfstemo/i conferim. Latah Co., Idaho, July 

 1894. Prof. C. V. Piper, No. 330. 



Perithecia erumpent-superficial, gregarious, subglobose, 1-^ mm. 

 diam., with a papilliform ostiolum. Asci clavate-cylindrical, 50-60 

 X 7-8 ;/, with abundant paraphyses, 8-spored. Sporidia fusoid, 

 slightly curved, 3-septate not constricted, unless slifjhtly so at the 

 middle septum, 50-60 x 3A-4 //. 



The perithecia appear on the living stems which are soon black- 

 ened and killed. 



Leptosphaeria concinna E. & E. 



On dead stems of Cnsiillein miniata Doug. Mt. Richtophen, N. 

 W. Colo., July, 1894. C. F. Baker, No. 271, partly. 



Perithecia scattered, subcuticular, subglobose, 200-300 // diam., 

 at length semiemergent, but still more or less covered by the black- 

 ened cuticle; ostiolum papilliform. Asci clavate-cylindrical, 70-80 

 x7-10,", paraphysate, short-stipitate. Sporidia biseriate above, 

 fusoid, pale-yellow, 5-.septate, slightly curved, one or two of the 

 middle cells slightly swollen. 20-27 x 8-4//. 



L. Orfilrien-<<ii R. Br., has the a.sci and sporidia larger; in L. 

 tenern Ell., they are smaller, and in L. a(/iiifa the sporidia are 6- 

 7-septate and larger. 



Metasphaeria quercina K. & K. 



On dead twigs of Quercns ooeciuea, var. fivrforln. Newfield, N. J., 

 June, 1895. 



Perithecia gregarious, buried, globose, 250-300 //. diam. , raising 

 the blackened epidermis into pu^itules pierced at the apex by the 

 papilliform ostiolum. A.-^'i cylindrical, short-stipitate, 170-190 x 

 12,".. Paraphyses filiform, shorter than the aaci. Sporidia uniseri- 

 ate, oblong, 3-8eptate, and constricted at the septa, hyaline, 20 x 7- 

 9". 



I )i tiers from }f. Firdleri (Niesal), in its cylindrical asci and cyl- 

 indrical-oblong, not fusoid, straight s|)oridia. 



Ophiobolus Helianthi V.. &. K. 



( )ii deail stems of IhliitnllinK M(i.r!mill(iiii. Ivockport, Kansas, 

 March, 1H95. Bartholomew, No. 1,681. 



Perithecia scattered, erumpent-superficial, ovate-globose, about \ 

 nun. diam. Asci clavate-i'vlindricnl, |). sp. 40x7-8'/, paraphysate. 




424 PRt)CKKl)INGS OF THK ACADEMY OK [1895. 



8-spored. Sporidiu fasciculate, eloupited-fiisoid, hrownisli in the 

 asci, nearly hyaline when free, 3-septate, not constricted, nearly 

 straiirht, about 40 x 3 A— 4 ii. 

 Ophiobolus purpureus 11 & E. 



Ou dead steins of some Und)elliferou.s plant, on Mt. Kic^htoplicn, 

 N. W. Ck)lo., alt. 9,500 ft., Aug 1894. C. F. Baker, No. 277. 



Peritheciia gregariouf, buried on parts of the stems stained puiple- 

 red, ovate-globose, about 250 // diam. , covered by the blackened 

 epidermis which is raised into slight pustules and pierced by the 

 proininent-papilliform ostioluni. Asci clavate-cylindrical, sessile, 

 paraphysate, obtuse, 80-100x12-15,". Sporidia crowded, elon- 

 gated-fusoid, moderately curved, about 6-septate, 50-65 x 5-6 //, one 

 cell, near the middle, swollen, yellowish-brown. 



Differs from 0. poi-phyrogoniis (Tode) and 0. consimilis E. & E, 

 in its broader asci and sporidia. 0. fulyidus C. & P. has the peri- 

 thecia emergent and no swollen joint in the sporidia. 



Thyridium pallidum E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Rhus qJabrn. Rooks Co., Kansas, May 1895. 

 Bartholomew No. 1,711. 



Perithecia scattered, depressed-globose, about i mm. diam.. sunk 

 in the surface of the inner bark, dirty white above, covered by the 

 epidermis which is perforated by theconic-papilliform, amber-colored 

 ostiola, but not raised into pustules. Asci cylindrical, 110-130 x 

 12 ,'i, short-stipitate, paraphysate. Sporidia uniseriate, oblong- 

 elliptical, 8-septate, constricted, in the middle, the cells mostly divided 

 by a longitudinal septum, yellow-brown, 20-22 x8-10,'/.. 



There is no outward indication of the fungus except the numerous, 

 small round perforations in the epidermis, but when this is .stripped 

 off, the surface of the inner bark is seen to be dotted with the round, 

 pallid, slightly prominent apices of the perithecia. 

 Anthostomella albocincta E. & E. 



On dead culms of Arundinaria, Louisiana. Langlois. 



Perithecia sunk in the unaltered substance of the culm, without any 

 stroma or any circumscribing line, globose, 500-600," diam., with 

 thick, coriaceous walls. Ostiola erumpent, globose, often collapsing, 

 surrounded by the slightly raised, whitened epiderniis. Asci cylin- 

 drical, stipitate, p. sp. 80-100x6-7,". Paraphyses evanescent. 

 Sporidia uniseriate, mostly overlapping, 8ubfusoid-o])long, scarcely 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILAUEI>PHIA. 425 



curved, 13-16x3^-4//., brown with a hyaline, minute, subglobose 

 appendage at the lower end. The perithecia are mostly scattered 

 singly, but here and there they are collected in groups of 3-4, with 

 their ostiola collected in a fascicle. 



Thi.s differs from ,4. stegophora (Mont. ) in its scattered or grouped 

 not, seriate, perithecia, and in its permanently oblong appendic- 

 ulate sporidia ; from A. Bamhnsir Lev. in the absence of any stroma. 

 Valsa leucopsis E. & E. 



On bark of Fra.r!)nis vlridis? Cody, Nebraska, March 28, 1893. 

 Rev. J. M. Bates. Coram. Prof Thos. A. Williams. 



Stroma, depressed-conical, 5-1 mm. diam.. orbicular, consisting of 

 the nearly unaltered substance of the bark, the flattened apex erum- 

 jjent and snow-white. Perithecia 6-12, circinate in the bottom of the 

 stroma, about 150// diam., abruptly contracted above into slender 

 necks, their black, punctiforra ostiola, erumpent through the snow- 

 white disk but not exserted. Asci davate-cylintlrical, 22-27 x 

 5-6//. Sporidia biseriate above, allantoid, hyaline, slightly 

 curved, 5-6A x 1-1 J // 



Has the outward appearance of Vnlsn leucosfoma (Pers. ) or V. 

 nivea (Hoff. ), hut the asci and sporidia are smaller and there is no 

 conceptacle enclosing the stroma, besides the different habitat. 



Eutypella alpina E. & E. 



On dead trunks o^ Alnus tnc(i)ia. Larimer Co., Colo., July 1895. 

 Alt. 7,000 ft. C. F. Baker, No. 363. 



Stroma seated on the wood, depressed conical, orbicular or 

 elliptical, 3-4 mm. diam., white inside, enclosed in a stout, black, 

 subcarbonaceous shell, circumscribed by a black line penetrating the 

 wood. Perithecia 20-30 in a stroma, nionostichous, crowded, ovate- 

 globose, h nim. diam.. necks slender, rising through the white 

 substance of the stroma and terminating in a compact fascicle of 

 stout, sul)Ldi)bose, (piadrisulcale ostiola erumpent through transverse 

 cracks in the epidermis or closely surrounded l»y it. Asci, p. sp. , 

 22-24 X 4-5 /«, long stipitate, with stout, nucleate paraphyses 

 exceeding them in length. Sporiilia sul)i)iseriate. allantoi<l, yellowish, 

 moderately curved, 7-10. \ U-2/'. 



DilitTs Iron) E. sim'dix (Karst.; in its larger sporidia from K. 

 nliiij'riKfii { Wahl. ) in the shorter s|H)re-l»earinL' part of the asci, and 

 from both in the much more numerous perithecia. 




426 I'HOCKKDINCIS OK IIIK ACADKMY OK [1895. 



Eutypella herbioola K. ^v: K. 



On tleud stems of Aster cin-difotiitg. Ohio. Morguii No. IJ'i'J. 



Stroma elongated, 5 or more cm. long, and 2-3 mm. wide, slaty- 

 black outside, circumscril)ed by a l)lack line which penetrates deeply 

 into the substance of the stem. Perithecia globose, 300-450," diam. 

 not deeply buried, lying either singly or 3-10 together in valgoid 

 grou|)s. Ostiola erumpeut, tuberculo-globose or short-cylindrical 

 with their tips swollen, quailrisulcate. Asci, p. sp., fu.soid-clavate, 

 30-35 X 5-6 ,", with a slender stipe. Paraphyses obscure or none. 

 Sporidia allantoid, yellowish, .slightly curved, obtuse, 6-8 x 1^-2 /i. 



Differs from E. cerviculuta (Pers. ) in its partly scattered perithecia 

 and herbicolous growth, in which respect it approaches Cn/ptosplicEria. 



Diatrypella Fraxini E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Fraxinus oirldls. Rooks Co., Kansas, July, 

 1895. E. Bartholomew, No. 1,783. 



Stroma cortical and convex, 2-3 mm. diam., formed of the 

 slightly altered suh.stance of the bark, without any distinct circum- 

 scribing line. Perithecia 8-12 in a stroma, globose, 260-300// 

 diam., ostiola united in a lirowuish-black, erumpeut disk, only 

 slightly projecting, becoming 4-cleft. Asci clavate, 110x12//, 

 long-stipitate, paraphysate, polysporous. Sporidia crowded, allant- 

 oid, yellowish-hyaline, curved, 6-8 x l|-2//. 



Thestroraata raise the bark iuto distinct pustules, to the sides of 

 which the lobes of the ruptured epidermis closely adhere. 

 Melogramma boreale E. & E. 



On bark of dead Abie.% Newfoundland. Waghorne. 



Stromata gregarious, erumpeut, bordered by the lacerated, up- 

 turned epidermis, suborbicular or irregular, 1-2 mm. diam., or by 

 confluence subflexuous, black, roughened above by the prominent, 

 oljtuse ostiola. Perithecia buried in the stroma, not numerous. 

 Asci clavate-cylindrical, 75-80x12//, with a short stipe, paraphy- 

 sate, 8-spored. Sporidia biseriate, clavate-oblong or ovate-oblong, 

 uniseptate and constricted in the middle, each cell finally becoming 

 uniseptate, slightly narrowed toward each end, but not acute, 10- 



13x3i-4i/'. 



Resembles M. Hibhci fSchw.). 

 Hypoxylon Californicum E. & E. 



On wood of Adeiiosfylum faiaicalatnin, Pasadena, Cala., Aug., 

 1894. Prof. A. J. McClatchie, ^S^o. 755. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 427 



Stroma interruptedly effused continuous for 2-4 cm., or subro- 

 bicular, i-1 cm. across, al)out 1 mm. thick, margin abrupt, some- 

 times the upper edge slightly projecting, conidial layer rusty-red, 

 same color as in H. perforatum fSchw. ) Perithecia monostichous, 

 ovate, i-i mm., the apices only slightly prominent, with small, 

 papilliform ostiolum, finally perforated. Asci cylindrical, rather 

 long-stipitate, abundantly paraphysate, 8-spored, p. sp. 90-110x7 

 -8;/. Sporidia uniseriate, ol)long-navicular, 14-18x6-7//., yellow- 

 ish at first, with a single large central nucleus, finally opake. 



Distinguished from H. rubigbiosum (Pers.), by its larger sporidia. 



Fhyllaohora Flantaginis £. & E. 



On leaves of Plantofjo Rugelii, Racine, Wis., Oct., 1894. Dr. J. 

 J. Davis, No. 943. 



Kpiphyllous, gregarious, on dead areas of the leaf, convex-hemis- 

 pherical, black, 1-:^ ram. diam., or 2-3 confluent and then larger, 

 base innate in the surface of the leaf ajiex papilliform. Cells filled 

 with oblong, hyaline, 2-nucleate stylo8j)ores 6-8 x 2-2^ //. Asci not 

 yet formed. 



Evidently the early stage of Phyllaehora. 



Dothidella longissima (Pers.) E. & E. 



Splittfriii /(>ii(/l.-<siiiia Pers., Svn. p. 31. PJioiiki /o}i(jl.'<sii)ia West. 

 Not. Ill, p. 13. 



Perithecia densely gregarious, seated on a thin, black 3nl)iculuni 

 forming long, narrow, black, ribbon-like strips 1-1 ^ mm. wide, 

 extending from node to node on the stems, minute, slightly prom- 

 inent, not confluent, covered at first by the blackened epidermis. 

 Ostiola inconspicuous, or minutely papilliform. Asci ()l)long, 40 x ■ 

 7-9 //, nearly sessile, paraphysate. Sporidia biseriate, oblong, uni- 

 septate, but scarcely constricted, obtuse, hyaline, 12-15 x 3i ,". 



On dead stems of Clifiio/KKliuiii a /hum, Kansas. Bartholomew & 

 Shear. 



HomoBtegia coBcinodisca K. & E. 



On bark of birch trees. Newfoundlaml. Wagliorne. 



Stromata erumpent-superficial, discoid-pulvinate, i- i mm. diam., 

 pierced above with 6-8 small round o|)eningp but witlH)ut any promi' 

 nent ostiola. A'^cigerous cells al)«)ut 75," diam., with thin subhy- 

 aline walls so that tlii-v Mn- not fiisilv (li>ilii'_niisli( d. Asci oblong, 




428 I'Koc i;ki)IN(;s ok iiik ArAin;.MV ok [18i>;)- 



siihsessile, 55-60 x 12-15 ,", iii)uraj)liysate, 4-8 spored. Sporidiii 

 mostly hiseriate, varying from elliptical tooMong and 8-22 x 8-1 0/x; 

 .S-septale niid const rioted at the septa, esjurially at the middle one, 

 where they readily separate, ohtuse at the ends, hyaline. Belongs in 

 Siurardo's subdivision Rnnmryncria and allied to, hut apparently 

 ditierent from H. ihtriasima Berk. 

 Ciboria Liquidambaris K. ,.'(: K. 



On decaying capsules of Lltpiidainbar. Naamans Creek, Delaware, 

 May 1895. A. ( onnnons, No, 2,710. 



Gregarious stipitate, 4-5 mm. high. Ascoma about 2 mm. broad, 

 orbicular, convex and brownish when dry, margin paler. Stipe, 

 white or dirty-white, puberulent. Asci clavate, stipitate, 75-80 x 

 7-8,", with filiform paraphyses. Sporidia sid)biseriate, oblong, 

 hyaline, continuous, 8-11 x 3//.. 



Mollisia Asolepiadis E. & E. 



On dead stems of Asclepias. London, Canada, July, 1895. 

 Dearness No. 2.283. 



At first covered by the epidermis, then erumpent-supcrficial, orbic- 

 ular, ? mm. diam., pale slate-color, margin coar,>^ely toothed or sub- 

 entire, plano-convex, much shrunken when dry. Asci cylindrical, 

 short-stipitate, paranhysate, 8-spored, 55-60x6,". Sporidia mostly 

 biseriate, .«ubine(juilaterally elliptical, 2-nucleate, hyaline, 

 8-10 X 3 ". 



Closely allied to Peziza ahdita Ell. but disk darker, sporidia 

 broader and ascoma not as completely withdrawn beneath the epi- 

 dermis when dry. 



Cenangium conglobatum K. <k E. 



On dead limbs of some deciduous tree or shrub. Bay of Islands, 

 West Coast of Newfoundland, July 1895. Rev. A. C. Waghorne, 

 No. 42. 



Densely cespitose, foriinng compact tufts or balls 3-4 mm. diam. 

 A.scomata cup-shaped, stag-color or ferrugiTious insifle and out, 

 margin light-colored and fringed with short, pale, smootli hairs, 

 outside granulose-pilose. Asci clavate-cyjindrical, .«essile, 8-spored, 

 30 X 5-6 ,'/. Sporidia subbiseriate, allantoid, 2-nucleate, iiyaline, 

 ol)tu.se, slightly curved. 5-6] x 2-22 /'. Paraphyses filiform, with 

 a knob-like thickening at the tips. Asci and paraphy.ses have a 

 ferruginous tint. 




I 



1895,] NATURAL SCIKNCKS OF PHILADELPHIA. 429 



Chlorosplenium striisporum Ell. & Dearness. 



Ou decaying- leaves. Loudon, Canada, July 1S95. Dearness 

 No. 2,281." 



Sessile, hemispherical, 1-1 2 mm. diam., greenish-yellow, thin, 

 hemispherical, with the margin incurved aud tootlied, rough verru- 

 cose-.squaniose outside, pale yellow inside, substance soft-caruose. 

 Asci clavate-cylindrical, stipitate, p. sp. 70-75 x 15-20//. Paraphy- 

 868 filiform, longer than the asci. Sporidia irregularly crowded in 

 the asci, elli[)tical, sniooth and hyaline at first, pale-brown and 

 longitudinal h' striate when mature, 15-20 x 9-11 //. 

 Cenangella abietina K. & E. 



On bark of dead Abies. Newfoundland. Waghorne. 



Ascomata erumpent-superficial, gregarious, black, orbicular, 

 about 2 mm. diam. with the margin thin and suberect. Asci 

 clavate-cyclindrical subse.ssile, 60-75 x 12 ,-/, 8-spored. Sporidia 

 biseriate, ovate-elliptical, yellowish, becoming brown, 2-uucleate, 

 beconnng uniseptate, 12-18 x 6-7 //.. 



Patellea hysterioides E. & E. 



On weather-beaten pine lumber. Rooks C-o., Kansas. E. 

 Bartholomew. 



Ascomata erumpent-superlicial, .i-] mm. diam., black, the opposite 

 sides incurved, when dry, so as to give the appearance of a 

 Hyuteriiun with an open disk. A.sci obovate, 30-85 x 20 //, with 

 a short, nodular stipe. Paraphyse.< united above into a black or 

 purplish-black epithecium. Sporidia crowded, obovate, uniseptate 

 and constricted, 14-18x8-10/', ends rounded and ol)tiisc hyaline. 



I*. f>tyf/i(i (B. & C) is said to have the sporidia subattenuated at 

 each end, which is not the case with this species. 

 Duplicaria acuminata E. & K. 



On culms of Jiniriia DriiiiDiKindii. Cameron Pass, Colo., duly, 

 1894. Prof C. S. Crandall, No. 88. 



Ascomata scattered, shield-shaped, 1-1 mm. diam. astomous, con- 

 vex when moist, collapsing and wrinkled or ridged when dry, black 

 and shining, manner of dehiscence not seen. Asci clavate-cylin- 

 drical, obtu.se at the apex, gradually narrowed to the base, HO-110 

 X 11-12/', paraphy-ses none. Sporidia 8 in an ascus. irregularly 

 crowded, bifusoid, i.e. consisting of two fusoid sporidia joined end lo 

 end, 80-85x2^-3//, hyaline, acuminate at each end. but more tlis- 

 tinctlv so below. 




430 iM<(MKKi)iN(is OK rnK A("ai>i:mv ok [189/). 



D. Empetri Fckl. has the sporidia larger 58 x 6 /« ami obtuse 

 at the eiuls. D. ('oehiiichinenstit K. & H. has sporidia ghorter and 

 broader. 



Phyllostiota aniicta E & E. 



On leaves of Arrtosfdjthylos nscidn and .1. Mauzitnitn, Jarksou, 

 Amador County, Cala., 1894. Geo. Hansen, ^lo.s. 129 and 180. 



Spots cinereous, with a narrow, reddish-purple border, orbicular, 

 3-4 ram. diani. Perithecia araphigenous, erumpcut, depressed- 

 globose, 1 20-200 /i diam. , overrun with a hyphomycetous growth, 

 AUernaria, which also spreads more or less over the surface of the 

 leaf. Sporules ovate or elliptical, 7-10 x 5-6 //, light straw-yellow. 



On A. Manzaiiita the perithecia are scattered over reddish-brown 

 dead parts of the leaf, mostly the upper half, without any definite 

 spots. The Alteniaria has conidia composed of globose, brown cells 

 7-8 //. diam. , joined in toruloid threads, or collected in irregular 

 shaped masses, or forming concatenate conidia 10-30 x 8-20 //.. 



Phyllostiota Trillii E & E. 



On leaves of Trillium petiolatnm, Pullnum, Wash., June, 1894. 

 Prof C. V. Piper, No. 341. 



Spots small, 2-3 mm., round, dirty-brown, grayish in the center, 

 martrin darker, with a yellowish-shaded border. Perithecia innate, 

 epiphyllous, globose, about 75//. diam. Sporules oblong, hyaline, 

 continuous, 10-14 x 2-2i //. On the same spots is a Cladosporinm 

 C. Trillii E. & E. Tufts effused, slate-color. Hyphae septate, 

 brown, 60-70x5-6//. Conidia oblong, brown, 1-3-septate, 15-22 

 X 5-7 //.. 

 Phyllostiota Eudbeckiae E & E. 



On leaves of Rudbeckia laciniata, Kenosha Co., Wis., Sept., 1894. 

 Dr. J. J. Davis, No. 942. 



Spots nearly bla(;k, irregular subelliptical or suborbicular, \-% 

 cm. diam., definite with the border flarker than the center. Peri- 

 thecia epiphyllous, scattered, black, small, hemispheric-prominent. 

 Sporules oblong-cylindrical, hyaline, straight or slightly curved, 

 obtuse, 8-12 X 2-2 i //. 



Phyllostiota solitaris E & E. 



On leaves of Pirus corotiaria, Crawfordsville, la,, Oct., 1893. 

 Prof L. M. Underwood. 



Spots minute, 1 mm., round, pale-white, with a darker border. 




1895.] NATUKAL SCIENCI':S OF PHILADEI^PHI A. 431 



Perithecia epiphyllous, solitary, one in the center of each spot, 75// 

 diam. Sporules subglobose, hyaline, nucleate, 5-6," diara. 



Phyllosticta castanicola £. & £. 



On leaves of Castanea chrysophylla, Sisson, Cala., July, 1894. 

 Prof. Marshall A. Howe, No. 122. 



Spots epiphyllous, dark-brown, suborbicular, 2-5 mm. diam., with 

 a narrow, dark, subfimbriate border, scarcely visible ou the lower 

 face of the leaf. Perithecia crowded on the spot?, buried in. the sub- 

 stance of the leaf, hard and tough, orbicular or elliptical, 80-100". 

 diam., sometimes 2—3 confluent, the apex erunipent and broadly 

 |)erforated. Sporules abundant, minute, oblong, B-Sixli-lo ". 

 hyaline. The tough, almost sclerotioid perithecia indicate that this 

 may be the stylosporous stage of some Phyllachora, or other dothide- 

 aceous fungus. Very different from Ph. Castaneae E. & E. 



Asteroma infuacans E & E. N. A. F. 3 361. 



On dead stems of Iva xantJiifolix, Fort Collins, Colo., Feb., 1895. 

 C. F. Hakor, No. 284. 



Fibrils appressed, branched, radiate, at length often disappearing, 

 leaving the surface of the stem blackened for several 5-10 cm. in 

 extent, the blackened areas mostly surrounding the stem and more 

 or less distinctly limited. Perithecia abundant, pustuliform, per- 

 forated above, 90-150 ,'/ diam. Sporules oblong-elliptical, hyaline, 

 continuous, 3-5 x 1-1 i /x. 

 Asteroma Parkinsoniae E. & E. 



On jwds of J'lirkinsonia Torreyana, Tucson, Arizona, Sept., 1893. 

 Prof J. W. Tourney, No. 14. 



Perithecia emergent-.superficial, subdepressed, 150," diam., at first 

 a single one seated in the center of an appressed, gray, radiating 

 mycelium, at length smaller perithocin appear alr)ng the radiating 

 arms of the hyphae. Sporules oblong, hyaline, 2-3-nurleate, 15- 

 20 X 5-7 .", ends obtusely rounded. 

 Aposphaeria Ohiensis K. <S: F^ 



On rotten wood. Ohio. Morgan, No. 1,068. Perithecia gregar- 

 ious, depressed-globose, minute, 150 ,'i, papillate. Sporules oblong- 

 elliptical, continuous, hyaline, 2i-3 x 1 /i, borne on stout, fascicu- 

 late basidia 10-12 x 1^-2," below, slightly tapering above. 



Dothiorella fraxinicola E. & E. 



On bark of dead Frnxitnix. Ixjng Pine, Nebraska, dune. l<Hlt5. 

 Rev. J. M. Hate,-. 




432 rK<n-i:Ki>iN(js ok thk acadkmy of [1895. 



Perithecia eruinpeiit-superficial, densely j^regarious, or here and 

 there collected in botryoid clusters connected by an imperfect stroma, 

 i— i mm. diam., with a papillitbrm or short-cylindrical ostiolum, 

 finally collapsing above and iiroadly perforated. Sporules oblong- 

 fiisoid, 18-30 X G-7 //, hyaline, continuous, on slender basidia about 

 as long as the sporules. 



Hi Hers from D. Fnixini E. i\: E., and from J J. fruxhwn Sacc. 

 and Houm. in its larger perithccia and its differently shaped spor- 

 ules. 

 Dothiorella Crataegi K. >.<: E. 



On dead limbs of Cnifaegun o.ri/acaiitlui, l^ondou, Canada, May, 

 1895. J. Dearuess, 1,291 (b). 



Stromata gregarious, erumpent, black; tlatteued pulvinate ^-li 

 mm. or more in diameter. Perithecia small, 2-20 in a stroma. 

 Ostiola papilliform. Sporules elliptical, smoky or subolivaceous- 

 hyaline, l<S-20 x 10-15," on stout basidia, but soon deciduous. 

 Fusicoccum quercinum K. 1!^; H. 



On dead limbs of Qaercm coccinea, var. tinctoria, Newfield, 2s. J., 

 March, 1895. 



Stromata numerous, scattered, subcuticular, tuberculo-convex, 

 seated on the surface of the inner bark, erumpent and loosely sur- 

 rounded by the ruptured epidermis, about 1 mm. diam,, white or 

 whitish inside, obscurely multilocular, enclosed in an outer, coriace- 

 ous coat, which is irregularly ruptured above. Sporules fusoid, 

 hyaline, continuous, mostly 2-nucleate, subobtuse, 10-15 x 8-3i //. 

 Associated with Botryosphaeria fuliginosa (M. & N.). 



Diplodia oelastrina K. & £. 



On dead stems of CelastruM Kcandenn, Rockport, Kansas, Jan. 10, 

 1895. Bartholomew, No. 1,646. 



Perithecia buried in the blackened substance of the inner bark 

 small li ram., either singly or in groups, raising and rupturing 

 the epidermis, but not erumpent, though visible, minutely papillose. 

 Sporules variable ; mostly oblong-cylindrical, or clavate-oblong, 

 uniseptate, but scarcely constricted, dark-brown, almost opake, 18- 

 22 X 7-8 ,", others regularly elliptical, lighter brown, smaller 16- 

 20 X 7-8 :>, and deeply constricted. 



The shape and size of the elongated sporules is almost the same 

 a.s figured by Starbiick for those of Cytoplea prop\dlan>^ Schw., 




1895.] NATIRAL SCIENCES OF PHII^ADELPHIA. 433 



but the arrangemeut of tlie perithecia is differeut and sporules 



septate. 



Diplodia Umbellulariae E. & E. 



On dead twigs and limbs of Umbellularia Califoniica, Pasadena, 

 Cala., Aug., 1894. Prof. A. J. McClatchie. 



Perithecia scattered singly or oftener in short series of 3-6, bedded 

 in the blackened, almost stromatic, substance of the inner bark and 

 raising and splitting the epidermis into short, longitudinal cracks, 

 through which their minute, papilliforni ostiola are barely visible, 

 150-200 ;/. diam., whitish inside. Sporules elliptical, broadly con- 

 stricted at the septum, dark-brown obtuse, 16-20 x 8-10/', on pedi- 

 cels about as long as the sporules. 



Similar but smaller perithecia on the same limbs produce, obloug- 

 ellipticai, pale-brown, 8-10 x 4-5 ," sporules ('<»iiothenum l^mhellii- 

 larine E. & E. . Other perithecia contain oblong, 5-3eptate sporules 

 25-30x7-9/', on hyaline j)edicels 8-12/' long terminal; cells of 

 sporules hyaline, intermediate ones olive-brown. He)i(ierso)ii(i Um- 

 bel tuh trine E. & E. 



Diplodia officinalis E. & E. 



(Jn dead limbs of Snsmfrti.i officinaliK, New Brunswick, N. J. 

 Prof B. D. Halsted. Michigan. G. H. Hicks. 



Perithecia evenly but thickly scattered, subepidermal, depressed- 

 globose, 150-200// diam., covered by the blackened epidermis 

 which is raise<l into distinct pustules pierced at the apex by the 

 papilliforni ostiola. Sporules oblong, dark-brown, septate in the 

 miildle, but not constricted, 15-22 x 7-8 //.. 



Ditlers from D. S<ii<iniJ'ru.-< Tr. & E. in its larger sporules .'^ejitate 

 ill the middle, and in growing on dead, in.stead of living limbs. 

 Botryodiplodia ostiolata E. i\: E. 



On bark of dead l^aercus alhn. Ohio. Morgan No. 1,051. 



Perithecia fa.sciculate, 12-20 together, conic-(;ylindrical, 1-1^ 

 mm. long, white inside, joined at base in a black, subcuticular 

 stroma, erumpent through the thick epidermi.>*, and when growing 

 on the side of a log or limb, curving upward. S|Mjrules elliptical, 

 20-25 X 11-12/', uniseptate, brown. 

 Asoochyta zeioola E i\: E. 



On old stalks of //'ff Mays, Newtield, N. .]., .May, 1895. 



Perithecia gregarioua, on .slightly darker, irregular shaped or 




•^34 PKOCIOKDINOS OK TMK ACAOKMY OF [1895. 



Hiihelonirrtted aivns oi' \\w stalk, suln'niiiipeiit. |)i('rcc(l alxtve, 100— 

 1")0," (iiam. Sporiiles ohioiijtj-cyliiulrical, liyaliiic, yellowisli in tli« 

 mass, unisoptnto, not constricted, ohtnse, 6-^ x lA-2,". 



Very diHerent from .4. zelnu Sacc. wliicli is on the Icavi's uml lias 

 s|>()rnlcs is X 7 .". 

 Diplodina Coloradensis K. tS: E. 



On dead stems of Gutlorezid Enthaniuu , Fort Collins, Colo, 

 March, 1895. C. F. Baker, No. 833. 



Perithecia subgregarious, often subseriate, erumpent-superficial, 

 small, about 200", black and shining, subglbose, with a ])apilliform 

 ostiolum. Spornles oblong, obtuse, uniseptatc, but mostly not con- 

 stricted, smoky-hyaline, 6-8x2A-3,". 



Near 1). Galii Niessl, but apparently distinct; that species having 

 ovate, ct)nstricted sporules. 

 Septoria variegata E. & E. 



On leaves of Bhnmutis Piirshinna, Shasta Springs, Siskyou Co., 

 Cala., Aug., 1894. W. C. Blasdale. 



Spots numerous, dark rusty-brown, becoming light rusty-brown, 

 2-8 mm. diam., with a small, white spot in the center, or in the 

 larger spots, with numerous white spots arranged so as to present a 

 zonate or marbled appearance, as in Septoria imisiva Pk. Peri- 

 thecia epiphyllous, but often visible below, seated on the small white 

 spots, broadly open above, 100-110 //. diam. Sporules clavate-cyl- 

 indrical, irregularly curved, hyaline, nucleate, becoming 3-8eptate, 

 25-55 X 3-45 ,". 



Seems to be quite distinct from all the other species on Rhamnnx. 

 On account of the imperfectly developed perithecia, this approaches 

 Cylmdrospo Hum . 

 Septoria Asplenii E. & E. 



On \ea\es of Asplenium angustifoliian, Mich. Ag. College, 1891. 

 G. H. Hicks. Comm., Mr. L. N. Johnson. 



Spots dull dirty-white, with a broad reddish-brown border, 3-4 

 mm. wide, including border. Perithecia sparingly scattered on 

 the spots, small, 65-75 //., pale-brown, perforated above, only 

 slightly prominent. Sporules filiform, continuous, "several-sep- 

 tate" (sec. Mr. Hicks), curved, subequal, hyaline or greenish-hya- 

 line, 35-45 x 1 1 //. 

 Septoria carvispora E. & E., N.A.F., 3,270. 



On leaves of Acer fflohrion, Shasta Springs, Cala., Aug., 1894 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCKS OF I'HII.ADKJ.PHIA. 435 



\y. C. Blasdale and Sejttoria macrophijlli E. & E., MS., on leaves 

 of Acer vmcrophyUiim, Seattle, Wash., Aug., 1894, Prof. C. V. 

 Piper, should be considered as mere varieties of Septoria circinata 

 E. ct E., Proc. Phil. Acad., 1894, p. 367. 

 Amerosporium cinctum E. & E. 



On deail stems of Gladiolus, Pasadena, Cala., Aug., 1894. Prof 

 A. J. McClatehie, No. 793. 



Perithecia superficial, applanate, 100-150// diam., membrana- 

 ceous, of cellular texture, broadly open above, fringed around the 

 ])ase with spreading, smoky-hyaline, continuous, simple or sparingly 

 branched hair.s, 80-120x3,".. Sporules short-elliptical, smoky- 

 hyaline, obtuse, 3A-5 x2-2A //. 



Resides the subhyaline hairs that fringe the perithecia, other 

 branching brown threads creeping on the surface of the Gladiolus 

 stem, bear ovate, brown, conidia 1 -septate at first, then 2-3-septate 

 and submuriform, or sarcinuliform, 12-15 x 7-1 2, v.. 

 Fhleospora Californica E. & E. 



On leaves of Acer Californicum, Contra C'osta Co. Cala., July, 

 1895. W. C. Blasdale. 



Acervuli on small, 2—3 mm., pale, indefinite spots thickly scat- 

 tered over the leaf, covered, especially on the upper side of the leaf, 

 by the black, subdypeate perithecia which are obsolete or unde- 

 veloped below. Sporules cylindrical, mostly straight, 1-3-septate, 

 20-35 x 3i-4i ,'/, hyaline, not con.stricted, expelled in white filiform 

 cirrhi on both sifles of the leaf 



Differs from /'/(/. Aceris (Lib. ), in its black-c:ipped acervuli ami 

 whit« cirrhi. 

 Oloeosporium castanicolum E. it E. 



(Jii leaves {}[' ( 'ii.^htnrd vrsca, lying on the ground, Faulkland, Del., 

 Aug., 1887. A. Commons. 



Amphiircnou.s but mostly hypophvll(»ns, on light-colored spots or 

 areas of the leaf, also on and alongside of the midrib. Acervuli 

 niHiierous, minute, yellowish, eninipent. Conidia fusoid, subobtuse, 

 slightly curved, 20 x 2-2] .". 



_()u the one leaf examined wii.s an :il»un<lance of Dixrosia aiiocrcu^ 

 (Tode) forming conspicuous, suborbiciilar, black patches. 

 Cylindrosporium Rhamni E. •& E. 



On leaves of liliniimiii*, sp., Shasta Springs, Cala. W. C. Bias- 

 dale, No. 2.H3. 

 30 




436 prockp:i)incis «)k iiik acai>kmy <»k [1895. 



Spots sinall, 1 mm., white, suhconceiitrioally arranged on larger, 

 detiuite brown s|K>ts, .S-a mm. diam. Acerviili epiphyllon.s. erumpent, 

 seatcil on the white spots, Mack, 150-200 v diam. Conidia cylin- 

 drical, curved, ol)tuse, nucleate, hyaline, 35-45 x 3A-4A //. 



Marsonia Rbamui K. i'^ K. 



On leave.s of I\li(unnuK Pi(r!<liiaii(i, Kenton, Wa.sh., Aug. 9, 1894. 

 Prof. C. V. Piper, No. 59. 



S|K)td 9uborl)icular, l-l cm., whitish in the center, with a broad, 

 dark-purplish bonier. Acervuli epiphyllous, l)nt also visible below, 

 tlesh-colored, 200-250 ,'. diam. Conidia oblong or elliptic-oblong, 

 uniseptate, hyaline, 6-8 x 22-3 /', not con.stricted at the septum. 



Marsonia rubiginosa E. & K. 



On leaves of >S«//.t? Idaho, 1802. A. J. Mulford. 



Spots numerous, small, about 1 mm. diam., or by confluence 

 more, rusty-brown, without any distinct border, more clearly defined 

 on the upper side of the leaf. 



Acervuli numerous, 100-150 , v. diam., ampliigenou.s, but mostly 

 erumpent l)elovv. Conidia elongated-pirifonn, hyaline, uniseptate 

 near the lower end, often slightly curved, acute below, 11-13 x 22- 

 4i .".. Spores smaller and spots different from any of the other 

 specie.'; on willow leaves. Comes nearest M. mlicieola Bres. 



Melanconium crinigerum E. & E. 



On l)ark of dead maple. Ohio, Morgan 1,1 -'{O. 



Ascervuli subcutaneous, convex, slate-color, 2-3 nun. diam. 

 Conidia, ovate, elliptical or subglobose 25-40 x 22-30 ,", loosely 

 fibrillo.?e, issuing in black cirrhi which resemble tufts of black wool. 

 Found also on maple at Potsdam, N. Y. 

 Melanconium Alni C. & E. 



Sphaeropsis Alni C. & E., Grev. V., p. 50. 



On living bark oi' Alitna .ferrulala, Newfield, N. J. and on Abuts 

 rJwmbifolia, Pasadena, Cala., August 1894. Prof. A. J. 

 McClatchie. 



Acervuli perithecioid, minute, 1 mm., buried in the inner bark, 

 subcirciuate, filled at first with an abundance of subglobose, hyaline 

 sporules 3-4 // diam., and later on producing elliptical or oblong-* 

 elliptical, obtuse, brown conidia resembling tho.se of a Sphaeropsis, 

 and borne on stout l)asidia about 15," long, 20-25 x 12-15 />. 



The conidia from each group of acervuli are discharged through a 



\ 




I 



1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 437 



coinrnoii orifice aud form hea[)S of spores reseinhliag perithecia. The 

 Newfield specc. are younger and not as well matured but show the 

 same general characters as the California specc. 



Sphaeropsis Alni C. & E. in Krieger's Saxon Fungi No. 847, is a 

 true Sphaeropsis and ditierent from this. 

 Ovularia lotophaga E. & E. 



Oil living leaves of Lotus Totreyi. Sisson, Cala. , July 1894. 

 W. C. Blasdale, No. 288. 



Spots irregular or suborhicular, 2-3 mm. diam., grayi.sh-l)rown, 

 with a narrow, darker border. Hyphae subfasciculate, hyaline, con- 

 tinuous, simple or sparingly branched 15-25 x 2>-3 ,", subgeniculate 

 above. Conidia subglobose or obovate-globose, 7-9 x 5-7 y. 



Ramularia ciroumfasa E. i^ E. 



On leaves of Rumex obtuslfo/his. Oberlin, Ohio, May, 1894. 

 Prof. F. D. Kelsey, No. 133. 



Amphigenous. Spots small, 1-2 mm., whitish, with a lirown 

 border, thickly scattered over the leaf Hyphae often issuing from 

 the stomata of the leaf, very long, 100-150 x 22-3//, vaguely and 

 loogely branched, «listantly septate, hyaline, a.ssurgent, subgeniculate 

 and toothed above, Conidia varying from ovate or oblong-elliptical, 

 5-10 X 2-2i V- to cylindrical 10-15 x 2-22 .", hyaline, continuou.s, 

 concatenate. Whether the conidia ever became septate we can 

 not say. 



Ditiers from />. pratensis Sacc. in its smaller conidia and longer 

 hyphae, and its eHused growth, spreading out around the spot« .so as 

 to form white, orbicular patches 2-3 mm. diam. 



Ramularia ceroo8|)oroide8 K. iS: K. 



On li^Hves oi' fjjii/ohinw sjtlcntnnt. Seattle, Wash. August 1894. 

 Prof C. V. Piper, No. 290. 



Spots numerous, variai)le in size iVom 1-3 mm., often eoMliweut in 

 irreirnlar, subangular patches j-1 cm. diam., dark-purplish, with a 

 dill-wliitish center. Ilypiiae hypophyllous, few in a tuft, arising 

 from a yellow-l)n)wn, .stmmatic biuse, sui)geniculate, continuous or 

 faintly l-2-.septate, brownish-hyaline, nucleate, 30-()0 x 3i //. 

 ('ouidia tenninal, (tlilong-fiisoid, hyaline, at first continuous, 

 tiualiy narrowed in the' middle and 1, or more, septate, 15- 

 30 X 4-5 //. 




438 IMtOCKKDINfJS OK TIIK ACADKMY OK [1895. 



Ceroosporella Baooharidis V.. iV: \). 



On lenvcs of J)<irrli<iris Doniildsil, Herkeley, (";il:i., .Imu-, 1S94. 

 W. C. Bla^dnle. 



S|X)ts suborbiculur, 3-4 inin. diiim., tliity-hrown, groenish at 

 first, mostly wrinkled. Hypliac liypopliylious, cespitose, hyaline, 

 simple, mostly straight and continuous, entire or faintly toothed 

 above, 25-40 x 4,". Couidia cyliiidrieal, obtuse at both ends, 1-3- 

 septate, hyaline, 40-60 x 4-4 i //.. 



Ceroosporella nivosa K. iS: K. 



On leaves of Pfnfstnnon I)i(/ita/lx, Ohio. Morgan, No. 414, and 

 on P. ovatux, Idaho. I'iper, No. 297. 



Spots small, round, 1-2 mm., white, with a narrow slightly raised 

 margin surrounded by a purplish discoloration. Hyphae simple, 

 subattenuated above, nucleate, continuous, 12-15 x //, long hyaline 

 above, brownish and more or les.s swollen below, numerous, seated on 

 a hemispherical, cellular, brownish, sphaeriaforn) base and bearing at 

 their tips the cylindrical, hyaline conidia, 12-25x12-2//, nucleate 

 and becoming 1-2-septate. 



Differs from C. Penhtevwnix E. & K., in its smaller hyaline 

 conidia and hyphae, white spots, and narrow, thread-like margin. 



Cercospora hibiscina 12. it Iv 



On leaves of Hibiscus tiliaceits, Mexico, 1895. Dr. E. Talmer, 

 No. 328. 



Hypophvllous. Hvphae S]uiringly branched, septate, ecjual, 3'.-4,'/ 

 diani.. 300-400 /'. long, often undulate above, forming loosely inter- 

 woven, olive- black patches, 2-4 mm. diam. but not on any definite 

 spots. Conidia clavate-cylindrical, hyaline, aljout 3-septate, 30-50 

 x 3j-4A .''.. Apparently the conidial stage of some ascigerous fungus. 



This is very distinct from C. Hibiscl Tr. & Earle. 



Cercospora stomatica Ell. & Davis. 



On leaves of So/idar/n kifi folia, Somers, Wis., June, 1M94. Dr. J. 

 J. Davis. 



Spots irregular, angular, black, with a yellow shade in the sur- 

 rounding green part of the leaf, 3-4 mm. diam. Hyphae hypophyl- 

 lous. i.ssuing in loose tufts of 4-10 from the stomata of fhe leaf, 32- 

 70x4-7,'/, 2-3-9eptate, subgeniculate, nearly straight, pale-brown. 

 Conidia hyaline or yellowish-hyaline, attenuated above, 4-8, or 

 more, .septate, straight or slightly curved, 50-150 x 5-6 //. 



1 




1895.] NATL'RAI. SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 439 



Cercospora Grindeliae E. & E. 



On leaves of Grindelia sp. Berkeley, Cala., June 1894. W. C. 

 Blasdale, No. 258. 



Amphigenous, scattered in small, more or less confluent patches 

 over both sides of the leaf Hyphae tufted, short, sini])le, continuous, 

 15-35x4,'/, suhentire, or imperfectly toothed above, subhyaline. 

 Conidia sleuder-clavate, yellowish-hyaline, granular and nucleate, 

 becoming faintly 3-6-or more-septate, sometimes constricted at one 

 or more of the septa, and often abruptly enlarged at one end, 

 50-140x4-7//. 

 Cladosporium aromaticum K. & E. 



On living leaves of Rhus arnmatica. Pasadena, Cala., August 

 1894. Prof A. J. McClatcliie, No. 779. 



Epiphyllous, scattered, not on any definite spots. Sterile hyphae, 

 scanty, creeping, branched, fertile hyjihae scarcely tufted, erect, pale 

 olivaceous, septate and constricted at the septa, subgeniculate, 30-70 

 X 5 ,'. Conidia terminal, concatenate, olivaceous, oblong-cylindrical, 

 uniseptate, not constricted, 12-22, fmostly al)Out 15jx5,". 



The hyphae thickly scattered over the surface of the leaf give it a 

 smutty appearance. 

 Macrosporium toruloides E. <t E. 



On dead stems of Urtien Li/allli. Pullman, Wasii., March 1894. 

 Prof. C. V. Piper, No. 320. 



EH'used, forming a thin, olive-black, velutinous layer for several 

 cm. in extent. Hyphae toruloid, closely septate, l)ranched. Conidia 

 variable, 15—40x10-15,'/, 3-6-septate and rather sparingly muri- 

 forni, the smaller ones sarcinuliform, the larger ones obovate, borne 

 on deciduous, closely septate pedicels 25-45 x 5-5 ,", enlarged above 

 into the conidia. 



Both the sterile and fertile hyphae are so closely septate as to 

 resemble threads of Tonila. 



Sporidesmium punctans E. & E. 



On burk of living limbs ol I'/aiirra (Kjiiaftvu. Si. Lniidrv, ('o., 

 Louisiana. July 1894. i>aiiglois. No. 2,:'.92. 



i'lnictiform, scattered, conidia cespit<jse, short stipitate, nt" various 

 shapes, subglobose, 20-30,", diam. or often clavate or obj»iriform, 

 clathratc-septatc. brown. 25 75 .\ 12-20 ,', inrbiding the short, 12- 

 20,", septate |)edicel. 




440 I'RtKEEDlNOS OK IIIK Af'ADKMY OK [1895. 



The tiift^ of coiiidia tonii lit t If Mack spock!*. uliicli at a casual 

 glance resemble minute |)eritliefia. 

 Braohysporium pedunoulatum E. i^ K. 



On dead stems of Sdiiihuciix (ffnitra. I'lillinan, \\'asii.. Maiili 1S!I4. 

 Prof. C. V. riper, No. 31(i. 



Tufts puuctiform, ]-i nnii. diam., erumpent and closely bordered 

 by the ruptured epidermis. Sterile hyphae coarse, 6-^^// thick, 

 branching, s[)arin<rly septate, crooked, hyaline, intricately inter- 

 woven. Conidia oblong, or the shorter ones ovate, biseptate, but 

 scarcely constricted, brown, borne on short, ovate, brownish basidia 

 2-15 X 6-8 /' arising from the prostrate hyphae, but finally separat- 

 ing and remaining permanently attached to the conidia. 



This agrees with the diagnosis of B. hiseptatum Sacc. and Kouni. 

 only that has dark hyphae ("intense fuligineis") and there is no 

 mention ntade of the jiermanenf basidia so constantly seen in our 

 Washington species. 



Macrosporium cucumerinum K. & E. 



On living leaves of Citcumis melo, Las Cruces, New Mexico, Aug., 

 1895. Prof. E. O. Wooton. 



Epiphyllous, on orbicular, subconfluent, rusty- brown sjjots, 3-4 

 mm. diam., becoming whitish in the center. Hyphae fasciculate or 

 solitary, few in a fascicle, subgeniculate, 1-3-septate, 35-50 x 5-6 // 

 Conidia clavate, sleuder-stipitate, 3-8-septate, scarcely constricted, 

 submuriform, 30-75x15-25//, pedicel, 25-35// long. Nearly 

 allied to Macroxporinm Solatii E. & M., but differs in its slender- 

 pedicillate, mostly smaller conidia. 

 Stemphylium lazum E. & E. 



On dead stems of BIgelovia r/mveoloix, Grand Junction, Colo., 

 May, 1894. Prof. C. S. ("randall, No. 110. 



Effused, extending for one or more cm. along the stem and often 

 surrounding it, appearing like a thin, black pubescence. Hyphae 

 decumbent, hyaline, coarse, 8-10//. diam., continuous. Ckjnidia, 

 30-50 // diam., subglobose, sometimes two or three connate, made up 

 of globose brown cells, 8-10// diam., loosely conii)acted and borne 

 either terminally or laterally on the hyphae. 



Differs from S. subradians E. & E. , in its coarser, hyaline hy|)hae 

 and larger, loosely compacted conidia. 




I 



1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 441 



Stemphylium subradians K. & E. 



On bark of dead limbs of Lonicera inrolncrafa, "Coffee Pot 

 Springs," Colo., Aug., 1894. Alt. 9,500 ft. Prof. C. S. Craudall, 

 No. 93. 



Hyphae decumbent, brown, continuous or faintly septate, 2A-8,v 

 (liani., radiating from scattered points of attachment to the matrix 

 and forming a loose network. Conidia subglobose, 20-30,-/ diam. , 

 com|)osed of globose, brown cells, 5-8/' diam., and borne on short 

 lateral l)ranches or i)edicels, issuing at a right angle from the pros- 

 trate thread.s. To the naked eye the fungus appears like black, thin, 

 velvety patches indefinitely etlused and from 2-10 nui). in extent, 

 often surrounding the limb or twig. 

 Stilbomyces n. gen. Fam. Stilbese. 



Sterile hyphae creeping, scanty, fertile hyphae united in an erect 

 stipe surmounted by a conidiiferous head composed of bundles of 

 riagelliform, nucleate, conidia. Differs from Stilbiim only in its 

 conidia. 

 Stilbomyces Berenice E. i*c E. 



On living bark of Diospj/ros, Points Aux I^)ups, Acadia Co. , 

 La., Sept., 1x94. Langlols, No. 2,396 and 2,400. 



Stipe cinerous-white, 1-1 i mm. long and about 100," thick, mostly 

 a little curved, slightly attenuated above, and surmounted by a nar- 

 row-elliptical, acute head, a little thicker than the stipe. Conidia 

 tlagclliform, hyaline, about 60// long and ',Vj-4f> :> thick at the 

 moniliforra-nucleate base, constricted between the nuclei, and finally 

 separating into ovate-elliptical, smoky-hyaline joints, 5-7 x 3-4 .", 

 prolonged above into a continuous, hyaline bristle like crest which 

 constitutes about half the length of the conidia. These cf>nidia are 

 united at the ba.se so as to form tufts of 50-100 conidia with their 

 flagelliform tips spreading out like the bristles of a paint-brush. 

 Fusarium acuminatum E. !<;: E. 



On living stems of .S(*A»;(»»j /»f6^ro;*)/>;i, (leneva, N. Y., .July. lSi<5. 

 Prof S. A. Beach, comm. F. C. Stewart. 



Sporodochia grogariou.s, minute, white at lirst, then tli'.>5li-(ol()rtd. 

 Conidia falcate, attenuate-acuminate at each end, 3-5, exceptionally 

 6 septate, not constricted, arising from slightly elongated cells of the 

 proligerous layer, in which respect it differs from the usual tyjKj of 

 FnAdihim. (^uite distim/t from F. ili/iliiKjiuriini ('. iV' 10., which 

 also occurs on the same host. 




442 . PROCKEDINOS OK THK ACAPKMY OF [1895. 



OCTOBKR 1. 



Mr. Charlrs Morris in the Chair. 



Twenty-seven |)ersons present. 



A paper entitled " List of Birds collected in North Greenland by 

 the Peary Expedition of 1891-92," by Witnier Stone, was presented 

 tor pnhlication. 



October 8. 

 Mr. Charlie Morris in the Chair. 



Nineteen persous present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication: 



" Archa-ological Work in Ohio." By Gerard Fouke. 



" Certain River-mounds of Duval County, Florida." By Clarence 

 B. Moore. 



"Two Mounds on Murphy Island, Florida." By Clarence B. 

 Moore. 



"Certain Sand Mounds of the Ocklawaha River, Florida." By 

 Clarence B. Moore. 



October 15. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 

 Twenty-seven persons present. 



The deaths of Dr. A. E. Foote, a member, the 11th inst., and of 

 Rev. John G. Morris, Charles V. Riley, and Sir John Tomes, F. 

 R. S., corre8ix)ndent8, were announced. 



October 22. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 

 One hundred and ninety-one persons present. 

 The deaths of Joseph Grenville Norwood and Daniel Kirkwood, 

 correal K)ndents, were announced. 



Dr. Benjamin Sharp made a communication on a collecting 

 tour to Alaska, Bering Sea and the Artie Ocean on board the U. 

 S. Revenue Cutter, Bear, during the past sunnner. (No abstract.) 




1895.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 443 



October 29. 

 Dr. C. Newlix Peirce in the Chair. 



Ninety-one persons present. 



A paper entitled, " Synopsis of the ISorth American Species of 

 Gorytes Latr," by Wra. J. Fox, was presented for publication. 



The death of Louis A. Harlow, M. D., a niend)er, was announced. 



The Publication Committee reported in favor of the publication of 

 the following papers in the Journal of the Academy: 



"Certain River-mounds of Duval County, Florida.'' By Clarence 

 B. Moore. 



"Two Mounds on Murj)liy Island, Florida." By Clarence B. 

 Moore. 



" Certain Sand Mounds of the Ocklawaha River, Florida." By 

 Clarence B. Moore. 



.1 preliniiirary accotnit of Ihe Re-exploraiioii in JS'04 (ind IS'Oo of 

 thf "Bone Hole,'' now knou')i f<.s Iiu'nii<! Care, at Port Ketiiiedjj. Minii- 

 gomerij Coiintu, Penniiyivniiiii. Mk. Henry C. Mekcer remarked 

 that when Dr. Samuel (J. Dixon of the Academy kindly put him in 

 charge of the excavation at Port Kennedy in November of last year, 

 (after Mr. D. N. McCadden, having found fossils in a dump heap, 

 had called attention to the deposit, and after Mr. S. N. Rhoads had 

 excavated there fearsome time; he, the speaker, soon learned that they 

 were once more at the old so-called " Jione Hole" of Port Kennedy. 

 This was the place referred to by Mr. C. M. Wheatley, who gives a 

 cut of it in the American Journal of Science and Arts for April, 

 1H71, and where he collected the bones described by Prof Cope in the 

 r^roceedings of the American Philosophical Society for April, 1?S71. 

 A recent lowering of the tjuarry floor had brought the workmen to 

 the same soft place that they had reac;hed twenty-five years before. 

 They were twelve feet deeper than Mr. Wheatley had been at the 

 [)revious time, in a gallery filled up with stratified rubbish, whose 

 roof, if it had a roof, had been blaste<l away, whose; bottitm Inid 

 never been reached and whose horizontal extent no one can guess. 

 They were not standing in the darkness under a rock arch, but in 

 the open fjuarry, fortv-live feet lielow the original surface of the hill, 

 at the very bottr)m of the quarried area, and below its water level, 

 so deej) that the draiiuige hole close by had to be putnped out day and 

 night to kee|) the floor dry. A great mass of red talus, unfortunately 

 dum|)ed exactly upi)n the rleposit, overhung them ready to fall as 

 the digging went on. 



The explorer was confronted by a vertical bank abi>ut twetity-five 

 feet wide by twelve feet high and striped with colored Itands of 




444 PROCEEUINQS OK TIIK ACADKMY OK [1895. 



Stratification and it was tlie great uumber and variety of the boneb ot" 

 animals that protruded from il in all ilireclions tliat lirst astouisiied 

 him. The bones lay in the red clay and black earth with fragments 

 ot limestone and bits of shale, broken, cruBhed, ground into a sort of 

 meal, or liattened by the down-settling of the earth, often oozing full 

 of water like a soaked sponge, anil falling to pieces when touched, 

 so that they had to be cased in shells of plaster of paris, to be 

 removed. All that was seen was scattered and dislocated; no skele- 

 ton lay together, nor had the marks of gnawing teeth been found 

 upon any of the boues to indicate a den of carnivorous beasts, while 

 the kind and proportion of the remains further dispel the latter idea. 

 The couuti'y, which for this reason they might infer was thickly 

 wooded, must have been thickly inhabited by sloths, judging from the 

 astonishing number of their bones, and as inferentially from modern 

 ."jpecies neither this animal nor the tapir, buried with it, endured 

 cold, the climate was probably warm or temperate. Animals large 

 and small, fierce and gentle, lay together, the cumbrous mastodon 

 whose bones had been ground to powder, or dislocated and crushed, 

 at the bottom of the digging along with the rabbit and the turtle. 

 Professor Cope had shown that there were feline carnivores and 

 abundant bears, and they had found the saber- toothed tiger with the 

 bones of birds and the remains of the gentler horse, the beaver, and 

 the llanni. What was the power that destroyed the creatures, and 

 what the event that brought toegther their bones and buried them 

 in one place? 



Not to anticipate a description that ought to be very carefully 

 given of the position and contents of this remarkable deposit, of the 

 way the jaws and the teeth, the knuckles and the vertebra? of these 

 inhabitants of land and water, earth and air lay together, of the 

 relation of all the bones to the stratified bands of clay and stones, and 

 of the position of the whole with reference to the surface of the hill, 

 and to the other galleries and chambers that had been continually 

 revealed by blasting, let it be said, that every blow of the pick-axe, 

 destroying as much as it saved in the thick mass, revealed the 

 action of water, which, it seems, must have overswept the hill-top 

 since it could not have crept up to do its work by seeking its level 

 through a longer ingress, and which, for other reasons to be explained, 

 must have worked upon a large scale. Was it an immense rising of 

 the river swollen by the down- washing from the glacier? Was it a 

 wider sinking of the whole eastern continental floor when the sea 

 invaded the land during the Champlain period? If so, where were 

 the marine shells, which thus far the speaker had failed to find? Was 

 it a gradual thing or a sudden and terrible catastro[)he, driving to- 

 getber beasts forgetful for the time of their animosities, toward some 

 common refuge. He might refer the carbonizing of the wood to vege- 

 table decomposition; should he appeal to the action of ice to account 




1895.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHIJ.ADELPIIJ A. 445 



for great thick blocks of wood, still uudecomposed, cut out of trees, 

 aud though ruljhed and rouuded in an inexplicable manner, still 

 retaining their l)ark? Aware that he was probably dealing with 

 a situation such as had never before been presented in the sea- 

 board region, and not certain what might be disclosed at any moment, 

 he had taken the most minute care of all the bones that could be 

 saved, labelling everything at once, according to a system of 

 numbered rectangles painted on the deposit with white-wash so 

 that the exact relative position of each specimen could be recorded 

 aud a chart made, if need be, to show the whole series in place at 

 a glance. 



Here was an immense deal of evidence sealed up, every item of 

 which should otl'er an important clue to the conditions of pleistocene 

 time. The matrixes sent m bulk in boxes, because they contained 

 too many small remains to be opened at the cave, should be studied 

 by a botanist. Thei"e were parts of trees, twigs, aud possibly grasses, 

 leaves, vines, fibres, nuts aud seeds, all as clearly a part of the 

 time aud its climate as the animals. 



Several suppositions were necessary to account lor what was seen: 



First. This diverse and uncongenial horde of animals must have 

 come together, whether to eat salt, feed, drink, cross a swamp and 

 perish in the mire, fall into a hole, or to take refuge at some point 

 »»f vantage from some terror of uature. 



Second. They perished, but how? Should the entombment be 

 referred to wholesale destruction by lightning, carcasses dragged 

 into an open cavern by carnivores, or numbers of animals going to 

 one spot to die? If it wa.« drowning on a large .scale, how account 

 for the birds and the turtles? 



Third. The flesh decomposing had left the bones, and the bones 

 themselves ha<l decayed in many instances before they were rede- 

 posited in the cave. This was certain from the fact that no skeletons 

 lay iutact. 



Fourth. Water had redeposited the already fleshless and weakened 

 bones in their present position, grinding many of the older and 

 more fragile into a sort of meal, imbedding others comparatively 

 intact in this meal, depositing all in hopeless confusion with clay and 

 stones in stratified bands, and destroying them still larfher by the 

 down-settling of the debris after they had reached their |)r(sent 

 |)osition. 



There seemed to be no mixing of epochs or down- washing of old 

 anil new deposits into this deep chasm. Whatever else was inferred 

 from the dehris they knew it.s ireologit-nl date. They had gone back 

 one geological step, into different conditions of species, and a different 

 climate. If they were to find a paleolithii; ape-like savage in 

 ejmtern North America this was the place to settle his anti<piity 

 beyond all rea.sonable doubt. No trace of humanity had yet been 




446 PROCEEDINGS OK THE ACADEMY OK [1805. 



found, but if Man were living at this time they might suppose that 

 the waters which gathered together aud poured iuto this tomb so 

 many living creatures seized him also, and that at some unexpected 

 moment, they should find a piece of his skeleton, or a fragment of 

 his handiwitrk to prove it. I'orl Iveniicdy represented the meeting 

 ground between anthropology and |ialeontology, where perhaps from 

 the point of view of the latter larger science, it was suliicient to 

 gather the bones, and identify the species, but anthropology asked 

 for more. It must have everything measured and in place. On the 

 alert for the sudden apparition of Man, it must know how, when, 

 why, by whom, and uniler what circumstances all these objects were 

 found. Mo more of the doubt that beclouded the classic deposits at 

 M'atchez, Miss. , or Trenton, N. J., that perplexed the student who went 

 to Stockholm and tried to get at the real meaning of the bones that 

 Lund supposed he found associated with pleistocene fossils in the Minas- 

 Geraes ("averns in iirazil. No more of the uncertainty that ob- 

 scured at first the investigations at Gailenreulh, where pottery and 

 charcoal seemed to be mixed with the bones of the Cave Bear, 

 or at other caverns in Belgium, England and France, where for a 

 long time science concerned itself with the species of animals found, 

 and not with the human remains associated with them. If Homo 

 Sdjtlens were found at Port Kennedy the fact and its significance 

 could well be established beyond all controversy, but since Dr. Dixon 

 and the speaker had begun excavation there a year ago, and after 

 working at the spot for more than a month last autumn, and during 

 several recent weeks, the latter felt that it would be safe to say that 

 not one- third of the deposit had been I'emoved, though he himself had 

 dug out about 300 cubic yards, and Mr. Rhoads had removed as 

 much previously. 



Thanks were due to Mr. Archibald Irwin, the owner of the 

 quarrv, for the privilege accorded by him of exploring the deposit. 

 With his co-operation the work advanced. Meanwhile it was 

 eminently desirable that means should be furnished for the farther 

 exploration of this most important pleistocene record. 



The Foml Vcriehrafa from ihe fissure at Port Kevvedy, Pa. Prof. 

 Euw. D. CoPK made the following remarks on the contents of the 

 cave at Port Kennedy, and especially on the fossil remains of verte- 

 brata presented to the Academy by Dr. S. G. Dixon and Mr. H. 

 C. Mercer. The fissure was exj)08ed in 1870 by tlie workmen 

 engaged in quarrying the Cambrian limestone fCalciferous epoch), 

 and Mr. C. ^I. Wheatley had published an account of it in the 

 American Journal of Science and Arts. He collected numerous 

 fossils, which were the subject of a paper by the speaker, which was 

 published in the Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society 




1895.] NATUKAI. SCIENCES OF rHII.ADEI-PHIA. 447 



for 1871. The number of species determined at that lime was 

 thirty-four. 



The specimens now received were derived from another part of the 

 same tissure, which had been exposed by further excavations by the 

 quarrymen. The tirst to come to hand were obtained by Dr. Dixon 

 and Mr. S. N. llhoads, but subsequently a hirge amount of 

 material had been taken from the deposit by Mr. H. C. Mercer, who 

 had carefully noted the position of every specimen. The observations 

 now made by Prof. Cope were based on not more than half the 

 material obtained, and could be regarded as only preliminary to a full 

 report which he hoped to make at a future time. 



The species obtained so far, including those of the collection of 

 1870, are as follows: Batrarlila, undetermined, one sp., Tesfudinafa, 

 three species; OpIudUt, two species; Ace><, two species; Mamvudid, 

 Edeidida, five species; Glirf'.% twelve species; //(s«7/rora, one species; 

 Canilcora, fourteen species; Prohoscitlia, one species; Dijilarfhra, 

 seven species; total, forty-eight species. Subtracting three species from 

 the list of 1871 as not well founded, we have an addition of seventeen 

 species made by the present exploration. Of these additions ten 

 sjiecies are Carnivora. 



Characteristic peculiarities of the association of species are the 

 following: The most abundant of the largo niamiiials is the tapir, 

 Tiipint.i hin/!ili Leidy. The next most abundant is the hear, Arclo- 

 theriiiin pri-<tiinim Leidy. Probably the skunk, Mcphlfis me})hitica 

 L. is the next most numerously represented. If we regard the sloths 

 of the genus }[ef/nli>iiii.r as representing one species, they are the most 

 numentus in individuals, but there are several species. Rptux 

 major Dek. and Mastodo)/ niiiericanits Cuv., in both young and adult 

 individuals, are not rare. The remains of Elrphtm have not been 

 found, and the first C(j1 lection only contains Mii/ndon. Peccaries of 

 two sp('cie8 are not uncommon; while a few individuals of a deer 

 occur, and a single tooth of a rather large cameloid. The Cilires of 

 the new collection had not been investigated, but there is a left ramus 

 mandibuli of a beaver which is very near to, if not identical with, 

 the ('ii.-<titr fihrr, a species not ccmtained in the collection of 1870. 

 No fragments of ofwssum have been found, and raccoon is very rare, 



.More attention has been given to the Carnivora of the collection, 

 i'lie ArHtillirriinii prist iti it m. is of South American tvpe, and is 

 widely ditferent from the existing North American bears. Associated 

 with it are remains not distingnishabh' from the common iilack l)ear, 

 l'rKii.'< nmrrlt'iiiniK. \ few teeth and bones are not disliiigiiishablc 

 from those of the wolf, wiiile two species of foxes are representeil by 

 two molar teeth, one of which is not distinguishal)le from the corres- 

 ponding part of the gray fox. V. rinr.reoarrjeulntnu. Fragmeiit.s of 

 sectorials are closely similar to those of BaAsuri.'^niH tiJ<lidii.'<, and 

 fragments represent a wea.sel, MndeMi. The cats an? represented 




448 n«HKKI)INU!< 0|.- I'lIK ACAMK.MV OK [l^O;'). 



l)y lour s|K>fie8, of which tlie n^()^'t ahuiuhint is the red lynx, L. riifiis. 

 There is a smaller v»t represented by inandilmlar ramus, which 

 resembles in characters and iu size the corresponding parts of the 

 evra. with which it seems to be identical. There are lliree inferior 

 premolars, anil perhaps a part of a superior sectorial of a cal n\' i\\v 

 size of the jaguar, which appears to be new to science; and there are 

 several teeth and a part of the lower jaw with teeth, of the large 

 saber-tooth which has been called Sitillodon (jraciUs Coi)e. Finally 

 a lower sectorial and a premolar indicate an ally of the hyienas; 

 which is described below as Crociita hiexpectatu. The following are 

 the descriptions of the new forms: 



Uncia merckuii sp. uov. This species is represented by three 

 premolar teeth of the lower jaw wliich belong to two individuals. 

 Tiie posterior part of a superior sectorial tooth accompanies these 

 remains, and nuiy belong to the same si)ecie8. These teeth belong 

 to an animal of the dimensions of the jaguar, and the inferior pre- 

 molars have the posterior heel and lobe, and anterior basal lolte, well 

 develoj)ed. The horizontal section of the princijjal cusp is lenticular, 

 without much iliHerence in the degree of convexity of the outlines. 

 The teeth ditler from those of both the jaguar and puma in the 

 greater elevation of both the posterior heel and lobe, which are 

 separated from each other by deep incisions. The posterior part of 

 the crown is narrower posteriorly, especially in the anterior tooth, 

 which differs more in all the points mentioned than does the posterior 

 tooth. Enamel smooth. Length of crown oi p. ra. I, 21 mm; width 

 of do. posteriorly !J mm.; elevation of do. 14 mm. Length of crown 

 of p. m. II, 16 mm.; width of do. 7.5 mm.; elevation of do. 8.5 

 mm. This species i.s smaller than the Uncia airox Leidy, which 

 equals the lion, and which differs also in the much simpler character 

 of the second premolar. It is dedicated to Mr. Henry C. iMercer in 

 recognition of his indefatigable labors in cave exploration. 



Smii.odon ghacilis Cope, American Naturalist, 1880, \^. 857. 

 This saber- tooth is represented by a considerable part of a superior 

 canine tooth, from which more than half of the apex has been broken 

 off. At the same time and place were found an entire left superior 

 sectorial ; part of a second left superior sectorial; part of a right 

 mandijnilar ramus containing the sectorial and first premolar teeth; 

 the crown of a second left inferior sectorial, and three incisors. 

 There are several bones in the collection, including ungual pha- 

 langes, which probably belong to the same animal. 



This is the largest feline discovered in the formation, efpialing the 

 }ffi/-h(rro(h(.'< nilirlrlr)!.'^ of the European caves, but not reaching the 

 dimensions of the South American S))>lInrloii )irof/aeii.-<. The edges 

 of the crown of the canine, of which 20 mm. are preserved, are 

 not denticulate. The anterior lobe of the superior sectorial is large, 

 but the preanterior lobe is very small. The protocone forms an 




1895.] NATLJKAl. SCIE^'C•ES OF l'HILAI>KI,PH I A. 449 



augular process, but has uodistiuct apex; its base displays the origiu 

 of a separate root. The inferior sectorial has uo trace of heel. The 

 first premolar i.s short aud robust, and has a short but well-defined 

 heel, aud well- marked but not elevated posterior lobe. The principal 

 cusp is elevated aud rol)ust, with lenticular section witii outlines of 

 very unequal convexity. In a probalde second specimen of this 

 tooth, the anterior lobe is distinct, acute edged, and little elevated. 

 Incisors short, hooked, and with basal lobe at one side only. 



The length of the fragment of the superior canine measures 111 

 mm.; anteroposterior diameter at ba.se of crown 27 mm.; do. at 30 

 mm. from base 24 mm.; transverse diameter at do. 11 mm. Antero- 

 posterior diameter of superior sectorial 31 mm: greatest width (at 

 j)rr)toC(Mie) 14 nmi. Anteroposterior diameter of inferior sectorial, 

 23 mm. ; do. of p. m. 1, 20 mm. (restored). 



This species (litters from the *S'. fforidanx.'^ Liedy, in the much 

 greater compression of the superior canine tooth, while the general 

 dimensions are similar. 



Ckocita inkxtkctata sp. nov. This species is represented by a 

 right inferior sectorial in good preservation. It resembles a good 

 deal that of f'lWKfa macnlatti, and agrees with it in the absence 

 of trace of metaconid. The cutting heel is rather longer than in that 

 species, and the cinguhim which is so conspicuous in it is wanting in 

 the fossil tooth. The paraconid and protocoiiid are well elevated 

 and erpuil. Anteroposterior diameter of crown 24 mm. ; do. of do. 

 e.\'<'lusive (jf heel 19 mm.; elevation of paraconid 10 mm. 



The occurrence of a hyena in this collection is unlooked for, but was 

 reiulered less incredible by the discovery of a species of this family, 

 linroitliiKjii.^ (}'n'fr.-<.i(h-iiK, in the pliocene bed of Texas. There is an 

 alternfttive to the identification of this species as Cronifn, and that is 

 that it might belong to the genus Ximmpii.'*. As this genus belongs 

 to the nnddle ^^iocene, it is extremely improbable that it should 

 have a re|)re-ientative in the Pleistocene fauna, although the survivnl 

 of this form of sectorial tooth in connection with modern feline char- 

 acters in other respects is not an impossibility. 



Of the forty-eight species contained in the collection eleven have 

 not been finally <letermined. Of the thirty-six determined species 

 nine, or twenty-five per cent., are still existing, and the remain- 

 ing twenty-seven are extiiu-t. Of the existintr species eight are 

 nearctic, and one. Fffls riira, is neotropical. Of the extinct spe- 

 cifs ten are of nearctic; tv[)e, and ten are of neotropical type; the 

 remjiining six species being indifferently one or the other, except 

 the Croriita, which is of old world tvpe. The presence of Fjiiiiim 

 innjni; and of the b«'aver, connects the fauna directly with that of the 

 Efpius beds of the West and Southwest, with which the ^TelraIonyx 

 faiMia, as he had called this one. was probablv cDutfMnporaneous. 

 These faunas were separated bv a long interval of time from the 




450 rHixKKitiNci.s oi' rill-: acakk.mv <»k [1895. 



Inter ones wlios-e renmins, iucliuliug those of Man, Imve heen 

 tbuntl ill so nmiiy caves liy Mr. II. ('. Mercer. Tlie speaker luul 

 siifr«restcil' tluit tliis interval was niarkeci by tlie Chaiiiplain depres- 

 sion (luring which the Coluinhia gravels and other t'orniations of 

 gravel and clay were deposited, and he had hence designated the 

 caves of the two ages as I'rechainphiin and I'ostchaniplain. 



As regards the mode of occurrence of the remains ol' this fauna 

 the following remarks were made. No single cave deposit has 

 been found as yet which i-ontains so large a number of species as 

 the subject of this commiiuicatioii, although those of lirixham in 

 England and CJailenreuth in Jiavaria, contained as many or more 

 numerous individual animals. As the majority of the species at 

 Port Kennedy are not cave-dwellers, and many of them, as the mas- 

 todons and sloths, cannot well have been dragged there by carnivo- 

 rous species, the question arises as to how the accumulation came 

 about. The bones show no signs of gnawing, nor of wear, as though 

 they had been transported. At the same time two bones have been 

 rarely found in their normal relations in the skeleton. The fissure 

 has been exposed for some twenty feet from the summit, but the 

 bottom has not been reached, chieHy on account of the quantity of 

 water present. The scattered and mixed relations of the bones are 

 identical with the conditions he had found to exist in caves contain- 

 ing the same fauna in Southwest Virginia and East Tennessee. No 

 local conditions wiH therefore account for a phenomenon .so wide- 

 spread. 



Without evidence of a conclusive character, the impression which 

 he had gathered from the facts is as follows: He suspected that the 

 larger animals at least fell into this fissure during a long period. 

 Many of the smaller ones may have entered it from entrances now 

 filled by debris. Animals frequently resort to caves to die. A gallery 

 of fifty feet in length which is large enough to admit a man standing 

 nearly erect, in the Marble cave in South West Missouri, was found 

 to be packed for a consideralde part of its length by mummied rac- 

 coons who had apparently crawled in there. At the period of 

 submergence of the Champlain epoch, floods of water from melting 

 ice poured into the fissure, and tilled it to the mouth with debris, 

 churning up the contents already there, and carrying in logs and 

 other vegetable matter. The stratification of the deposit may be 

 thus accounted for, as also the presence of worn and unworn stones. 

 In the lower ])art of the deposit vegetable debris and forest mold 

 f)redominate, which contain seeds and nuts. This deposit appar- 

 ently represents the long period during which the fissure was open. 



' Araeriran Naturalist. 1805. p. .598. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIEXCES Of HHILADEJ.PHIA. 451 



The Port Kennedy Deposit. Prof. An(4ELO Hkilpkin, coiii- 

 meuting upon the evidence that had been subniitted regarding the 

 age of. the deposit, believed that special caution was necessary in as- 

 signing to the debris a definite geological position. To him the 

 large number of extinct or Neotropical forms indicated more nearly 

 a Pliocene rather than Post-Pliocene fauna — at all events a fauna 

 whose culmination preceded the Glacial Epoch — and he was hardly 

 prepared to accept them as a part of the fauna of the region which 

 survived tlie melting of the ice. The correspondence was with 

 the Parapean fauna of the southern continent, and this he was also 

 inclined to believe to be (us Prof. Cope himself had years before an- 

 nounced) Pliocene. Prof. Heilprin said that he was not yet a con- 

 vert to the Columbian gravel theory, regarding which far too much 

 uncertainty existed to permit it to be accepted as a broad chrono- 

 logical element in geological history. He thought it not unlikely 

 that the remains in cpiestion had been subjected to redistribution 

 by the glacial flood of the Delaware River Valley, the high back- 

 water of which must have penetrated far into the valley of the 

 Schuylkill, and into the very region of Port Kennedy. 



The Recording Secretary read the followiug: — 



31 




*i52 I'KOCKKIIINOS OK THK ACADKMY OF [1895. 



A BIOGRAPHICAL NOTICE OF W. S. W. RUSCHENBERGER, M. D. 

 BY KDWAKl) .1. NUl.AN, M. I). 



Since the first recorded meetinjr of the founders of llie Academy, 

 "friends of science ajid of rsitioiial disposal of leisure inon)eiits " at 

 the house of John Speaknian, January 25, 1812, the society has 

 been served hy a succession of devoted men who have ^xiveu their 

 time, their means an<l their best thoutrht to the promotion of its 

 interests. The mend)ership at larjre, however, has been for the 

 most part composed of specialists in science who have had neither 

 time nor inclination to occujn' themselves with administrative affairs, 

 and a much larger nundier who have been content to lend their sup- 

 port, moral and pecuniary, to an institution for the advancement of 

 learnintr without takini: part intimately in the details of its work. 



The services rendered by the subject of this notice during the last 

 twenty-six years of his life are of such character and magnitude that 

 they have secured for him a distinguished position among the bene- 

 factors of this society. He was intellectually in close sympathy 

 with the Academy's work, while the termination of his active con- 

 nection with the United States navy enabled him to devote himself 

 with tireless fidelity to the diities of the several executive positions in 

 which he was placed. 



Wn.MAM Samitel Waithman Ku«('ni:NJ{EK(ii;K was the son of 

 Peter Ruschenberger, a sea captain, and Ann Waithnuin. His 

 mother, the third in a fannly of nine children, was born near 

 Bridgeton, Cund)erlaud Co., N. J., June 18th, 1785. Her son was 

 also born there September 4, 1807. Prior to this, however, her 

 father and his family had moved to Philadelphia, the young couple 

 living with them, and here a daughter was born. Three months 

 before the birth of the son Captain Ku8chen])erger and all his crew 

 were lost at sea, leaving the wife and children in straitened circum- 

 stances, so that it became necessary to add to their income by literary 

 work. Sacrifices were tnade to secure a good e<lucation for the boy, 

 who co-operated earnestly with his mother to that end. The details 

 of his early training are not known, but he attended schools in New 

 York and Philadelphia, and studied Latin with an Irishman of 

 culture who had been compelled to leave the country of his birth 






1895.] NATIKAI- SCIEN( ES OF PHI f-ADEI.PHIA. 453 



for polirk-al reasous. The pupil declared more than half a century 

 later that his teacher's bitter denunciation of English injustice had 

 permanently influenced his political opinions. Other particulars of 

 his early life are wanting. 



He was apjiointed to the United States navy from the State of 

 New Jersey, August 10, 1826, when not quite nineteen years of age. 

 He entered the service as surgeon's mate, his first cruise lieiug on 

 the r. S. S. Brandy wine of the Pacific Squadron. His fitness secured 

 for him the position of commodore's secretary, in which capacity he 

 served under Commodore Jacoh Jones during 1^28 and 1H29. He 

 liad, in the mean time, matriculated in tlie Medical I)ej)artmeut of 

 the University of Pennsylvania from wliich institution he received 

 his degree of Doctor of Medicine, March 24, 1830. 



He was commissioned as Surgeon in the Navy, April 4. 1831, 

 and was a.ssigned to the sloop Falmouth, al.-^o of the Pacific 

 Squadron, on which he served from June, 1831 to February, 1 S34. 

 As a result of this voyage he published in Silliman's Journal for 

 1831 and 1833 a translation of a paper by Dr. ('. Bertero entitled, 

 "A List of the Plants of Chili." This appears to have been his 

 earliest contribution to science. 



On his return home he pul)lislied in l'S34 his first important work 

 under the title, " Three Years in the Pacific." In the |)refutory note 

 the author states that he has "avoide*! obtruding himself upon the 

 attention of the reailer and has indulged in but few reflections, 

 being content to |)resenl naked facts and allow each one to dress 

 them for himself and draw his own <'onciusious. " This statement 

 characterizes the work with a fair degree of accuracy. The social 

 and politieal lite of ]:ira/.il. Chili, Hnlivia and Peru are described 

 with animati'iii. the style, especially in the earlier chapters, being 

 difl'usive and somewhat florid, rather sharply contnu«ting with the 

 somewhat sententious diction of his later wiuk. There is a youthful 

 s|)arkle and sense of humor in his descriptions ol' persons and 

 incidents, which, in spile of the fidelity with which he adheres to the 

 promise of his |)ret"aee. make the book a charming narrative of 

 adventure. The voung surtreon. moreover, evidently regarded it as 

 his dutv to convey as much «olid iid'ormation as possible, and 

 geographical, |>olitieaI and socioloL'ical noten, bearing the stamp of 

 ae<Miracy, are not wanting'. ■\ eharacteristic abh<»rrence of sham 

 anri pretence is manifest ihroughout the book, while the- religious 




454 i'ko('i:ki>in(»s oi- iiii'; acakk.mv ok [IHQf). 



opiniuus au«l priu'ticcs i)t' tlie |ieo|tlf are referred to witli respect 

 and courtesy, altliouiili, as was inevital)le. with plainly expressed 

 dissent. The friends ot" the young author surely had reason to l)e 

 satisfied with his first literary offljpring. 



He was Fleet Surireon on hoard the U. 8. S. "Peacock" of" the 

 East Indian S(juadron from 1M.S.5 to 1887. This cruise resulted in 

 his second work, "A Voyage Hound the Worhl, including an 

 End)assy to Muscat and Siain in IS.'};"), 1(S8() and 1887." The 

 volume hears the date 18.88 and is dedicated to Dr. Samuel George 

 Morton, then ('orresponding Secretary of" the Acatlemy, of which Dr. 

 Ru.schenherger had l)een elected a correspondent in 1882. He was 

 transferred, in compliance with the By-Laws, to the class of active 

 niemhers on his taking up his residence in the (;ity. 



The siiperlt o|)[)ortunity of acquiring a knowledge of portions of 

 the world not then known nearly as well as they are now had heen 

 improved to the utmost. Besides the journal of an <'nd)as.sy fron) 

 the Gov*'rnment of the United States to the courts of Muscat, Siam 

 and Cochin-China the work enihraces sketches in Zanzihar. Arabia, 

 Hindostan, Ceylon, Java, Siam, Cochin-China, ('hina, the Sand- 

 wich Islands, Me.xico and California. The style, although matured, 

 is hright and animated, and the broad spirit of toleration and fair- 

 ness of the earlier work is maintained. A growing fondness for 

 natural history and an increased familiarity with the characters of 

 animals and plants are al.so evident. 



The .same year he published in Silliman'.- .Journal a j)aper en- 

 titled *' Remarks on the Barometer with a table of meteorological 

 observations made on board the V. S. Ship ' I^eacock' from .Inly 8 

 to August 17, 1837, during a passage from Peru to the United 

 States, bv way of Cape Horn.'' 



He was married to Miss Mary Haynton Wister, the daughter of 

 Mr. Charles J. Wister, of Gerniantown, October 28, 1889. Foui- 

 children were born to them, three daughters and one son, of whom 

 the latter, Lieut. C. W. Ru.schenberger, of the Navy, alone survives. 

 Mr.s. Ruschenberger died November 1, 1893. 



Dr. Ruscheidjerger was stationed at the Naval Ren<levous in 

 I'hiladclphia frou) 1840 to 1842. He now placed himself in active 

 communication with the Academy, frequently attending the meet- 

 ings and contributing to the library and museum, his first recorded 




1895.] XATIKAI. SCIENCES OF PHII.ADELPHIA. 455 



contrihution to the latter heiuir specimens of Chiton, sup))Oserl to he 

 new species, from Cliapmau's Island. 



It was prohahly during this period that he prepared the text- 

 l)Ooks of natural history which subse(iuently appeared under the 

 following titles: — 



Physiology and Animal Mechanism, 1841. 



Mammalogy. Natural History of Mamnnferous Animals. 2nd 

 Book of Natural History, 1842. 



Mollusca. Elements of C'onchology, 1843. 



These \yorks were from the text of Milne Edwards and Acliille 

 Coiapte, and were the first of a promised series which was not. how- 

 ever, continued. 



A Lexicon of Terms in Natural History, 1850. 



Elements of Natural History, end)racing Zoology, Botany, and 

 (leology. Two volumes, 1850. 



More than one member of the Academy has acknowledged his in- 

 dehtedness to these text-hooks for his first knowledge of natural 

 history. J'hey are purely technical and possess no literary grace 

 other tlian that of clearness and directness of statenient. 



He served at the Naval Hospital, Brooklyn, from 1848 to 1847, 

 and while there organized the Naval Laboratory for supplying the 

 service with pure drugs and reliable instruments. This establish- 

 ment is said by his contemporaries to have been much needed and 

 to have especially proven its usefulness during the trying period of 

 tlie civil war. About this time he published a number of pamphlets 

 on the relations of the metlical corps to the l'nit<'d States Navy with 

 a view to .securing proper definition of authority, rank, res[ionsibilily, 

 etc. 



He was again Fleet Surgeon of the East India S<piadron from 

 1M47 to 1850. Some of his observations during this cruise were 

 embodied in a series of papers contributed to the Southern Literary 

 .Messenger for 1H52 and 1H5.'{. They were issued later in book-form 

 under the title " Notes and ( "ommmtarie.H during a Voyage to Brazil 

 and ( 'hina in the viiir 1H4M." .\> might lie expected fVom the 

 mode of |»ublication. the work has uot the sustained intercut or value 

 of his other volumes of travel. It is discursive and disjoinled, 

 although still bright and instructive. 



On his return to America he was a.ssigned to duty in Philadelphia, 

 and immediately resumed bis active connection with the Academy. 




466 I'H(KKKI>IN()S OK nil-; VfAhlOMV <>l [1895. 



He served a» a memher ot" the riihlicatioii ( (Miimittce tVom l-Hf)! to 

 1 Ho4. and in f^cpteiid)*'!- of the larruT vear, lie wjus a|)|)()iiited to pre- 

 pare a new ami exIiMided notice of the Academy. That lie lost no 

 time in the |terfonnancf of the work assi^nied to liini is cvidcnl, for 

 the notice was rea<l to the mectinir of Fcl)ruarv 10, lMo'2, a vote of 

 thanks lieiiig then adopted and coninumicated to the author through 

 a committee consistintr of Messrs. Vaux, Hridfjes and Pearsall. 

 The pa|)er was published under the title "A Notice of the Origin, 

 Progress, and Present Condition of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia." A second edition was issued in 1H60. 



He served as Fleet Surgeon of the Pacific Squadron from 1H54 to 

 1857. 



In January, 1 <So8, a comniittee of Academicians was appointed to 

 confer with one from the Biological Society with a view to a union 

 of the two bodies. The report was evi<lently written by Dr. Kusch- 

 enherger. The question of Sections is carefully considered in view 

 of the character of the Academy's work, which up to that time, had 

 been almost entirely confined to the study of objective natural history, 

 the recording of specific differences and resemblances of form, classi- 

 fication, and geographical distribution, while the province of the 

 Biological Society was declared to be the di.scovery of the laws of 

 organic life, the forces which bring together the primary organic 

 cells and the results of their combination. The necessity of ))roviding 

 for organizerl special work was insisted on, and the alteration of the 

 by-laws to permit of the erection of classes or departments was 

 recommended. It was argued that the existing divisions of objective 

 natural history would not be curtailed or interfered with, the interest 

 of the meetings of the Academy would be enhanced and the necessity 

 for the organization of special societies would be avoided. 



Dr. Ruschenberger livcfl long enough to be cognizant of the vast 

 advance of biological investigation I'rom those days of cell-relations 

 to the present era of germinal selection, cytodes and microplasms. 

 He had occasion, it is believed, to acknowledge that the hopes of the 

 committee of conference were not well founded and that the existence 

 of Sections in the Academy, while detracting from the interest of the 

 general meetings, has not prevented the organization of special 

 societies which, it appears, are necessary to secure the sympathetic 

 as.S()ciation desired by those interested in distinct lines of investigation. 



From August 1860 to July 1861 he was serving al.*o as P'leet 




1895.] NATIJUAJ- SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 457 



Surgeou, in the Mediterrauean. This was his last period oi' service 

 on shi|>l)oard. He never asjfain had occasion to go abroad; indeeti 

 even short trips from Philadelphia weie hereafter of infrequent occur, 

 rence. During the j<u nimer vacations wheu nearly all his associates 

 were absent from the city he remained at lionie, declaring that the 

 shady side of Chestnut Street was the most desirable suniiner resort 

 known to him. 



During a portion of the period of the civil war. from 1861 to 1864, 

 he was stationed at the Boston Navy Yard, wheiv, in common with 

 everyoue connected with the jtublic service he found himself charged 

 witii most engrossing duties. 



He was on special duty again in Pliiladelpliia during 18H5 and 

 1866 when his attention wiis professionally occupied with the affairs 

 of the Naval Hospital. He also discliarged the duties of President 

 of the Hoard of Examiners with which he lia<l before been connected 

 as H member. In the American Journal of Medical Sciences for 

 .July, 1867 he published a pai)er entitled "(Contributions to the 

 Statistics of Human (irowth" based on an examination of 217 candi- 

 dates for admi.-^8iou to the Naval Academy at Anmipolis. 



He was retired on age in 1869 with the rank of Surgeon, being 

 later promoted to the grade of Medical Director, with the relative 

 rank of ('ornmt)dore, as a special recognition of long and efficient 

 service. 



While relieved from the performance ol' professional work in 

 connection with the rnited States Navy he wa.>- far from availing 

 himself of the opportunity to rest, or acknowledging ihe necessitv of 

 doing so. He found himself physically and mentally as vigorous as 

 he had been for the past twenty years with everv prospect of a long 

 life. His mother lived until ninety-eight years old. It was now tiiat 

 his active connection with the Academy, the American !*hiloso|)hical 

 Society and the College of Physicians was pnnluctive of the most 

 la.sting results. 



On the organization of the Hoard of Trustees of the iiuilding Fund 

 of the Academy in 1><67 he had been chosen President thereof, and 

 from that time until his death, while the work of collecting subscrij)- 

 tions was in progress and later during the erection of the buildings, 

 he wan indefatigable in the rlischarge of the duties of this position. 

 The work accomplishe<l is set forth in the fourteen elaborate pub- 

 lished reports preparetl by him. They cover the operations of the 




458 I'HOCKKUINOS OK Till'; ACADKAIY OK [1896. 



Board from ISGT to IMS imd diirinji- 1890. ISDI aixl 1.S92, tlic 



lU 



history of the inuctivf iiileniu'ilialf years luiviiij: htH-ii left by hi 

 fully reforilcd in iii;mut>cri|)t. In su|t|)i)ii oi' this enterprise lie 

 puhlislunl in ISTI an address on the flainis «if the Academy to piddic 

 • tiivor, iu the Tenn Monthly for N()vend)er IST-S an article on the 

 vaUie of oriy:inal scientiiic rcseiuch and, on the oecasion of the 

 removal of the Academy to the new building, a report to the contri- 

 butors on the condition of the society at that time, together with 

 numerous replies, statements and a|)peals in the newspapers. The 

 buildings of the Academy are, in truth, whether regarded as 

 meritorious or faulty, the visible evidence of Dr. Kuscheuberger's 

 zeal, industry and perseverance and the memorial, if one were to he 

 assigned him. most consonant with his tastes and desires. 



He was elected one of the ^'ice-Presi(lents of the Academy iu 

 January, 1869, to fill the position rendered vacant by the death of 

 John Cassin. At the annual meeting of the same year he was 

 elected to the highest position in the gift of the society which he held 

 until 1881 when, having declined a renomination, he was succeeded 

 in the Presidency by Dr. Joseph Leidy. 



From 1S76 until the close of his service as President, Dr. Kusch- 

 enberger presented a series of reports at the annual meetings of the 

 Academy reviewing the work of the society. In the fir.'^t report thus 

 presented he defines his attitude towards the department of instruction, 

 provision for which had been incorporated in the new code of by-laws 

 just then adopted. He gives emphatic endorsement to the idea of 

 providing supfwrt by endowment of positions for original investigators, 

 but deprecates the conferring of empty titles and points out the dis- 

 advantage of entrusting the control of dej)artments of the museum to 

 those over whorti, in the absence of compensation, there is no easily 

 administered method of control. He held that the Academy's 

 function was the encouragement of original research, its legitimate 

 work beginning where that of the I'niversity ceases, and that the 

 teaching of science could bettei' be done by organizations having 

 instruction for theii- prinuiry ol)ject. His active co-operation was not, 

 however, interfered with when the opposite opinion was practically 

 sustained by the majority of his associates. While, therefore, he 

 was never in sympathy with the department of instruction, he acted 

 on the belief, as expressed by him to one of his Vice-Presidents about 

 this time, "that the institution will live and prosper long after we are 




1895.] XATl'KAI. SCIENCES OF FHILAUEI.PJIIA. 459 



gone, when we can no longer luive a voice in its management, and 

 under theories of administration entirely different from ours, so that 

 it is wise to enforce our own views if we can, but if not, to help along 

 as far as practicable, the views of the dissenters." 



A minute of appreciation and regret was adopted on his declining 

 a renomination for the Presidency. His executive work in the 

 Academy did not, however, cease. He became a member of the 

 Council almost immediately and he was elected a Curator in 1882. 

 On the death of Dr. Leidy in April 1891, he became Chairman of 

 the Board of Curators, which position he held during the rest of his 

 life. His services as Councillor were invaluable becau.se of his 

 retentive memory and his accurate knowledge of Academy traditions 

 and history during nearly half a century. 



He served on the Publication Committee from 1872 to 1<S7<S and 

 on the Library Committee from 1873 until his death. 



He was Director of the Conchological Section continuously from 

 1869, the year of its formation, and of the Botanical Section from 

 187<) to 1894. He also served terras as Director of the Biological and 

 Microscopical Section and as Vice- Director of the Mineralogical and 

 Geological Section. Until incapacitated by failing health he was 

 rarely or never ab.«ent from the meeting of these bodies while 

 officially connected with them. 



Although he devoted the greater portion of his time to the affairs 

 of the Academy they did not absorb his entire attention. He became 

 a member of the College of Physicians of Philadelphia in March 

 1H,S6, was Vice-President from May 1875 to May 1879 and President 

 from May 5, 1879 until January, 1888. 



He was elected a member of the American Philo.sophical Society 

 October 17, 1849. The high appreciation in which he was held by 

 his fellow-members is shown by the fact that he was annually re-elected 

 to the Vice-Presidency of that Society from .January, 1 8K5. His 

 services to these societies have been recounted in biographical notices 

 specially prepared for them and need not be dwelt on here. 



The following is a list, probably incomplete, of other societies to 

 which Dr. Kuschenbcrger belonged, with the dates of liis election: 



(Jounty Medical Society of Philadelphia, March 24, 18H1. 



United States Naval Lyceum, New York, February 1, 1M.S6. 



Franklin Institute, April 1"), 1><40. 



College of Physicians and Surgeons of New "iork, Feb. 22, 1845. 




460 PWKIKKDINQS OK THE ACAKKMY OK [1895. 



American Institute, New York, .huic 13. 1845. 



Military Order of the I^jyal Le^Mon. Octolier 20, 1886. 



reunsylvania Horticultural Society, March Hi, 1M8H. 



Pennsylvania Zooloirical Society. October 13, 1887. 



Philadelphia ('«)lle<re of Pharmacy (honorary). March 27, ]X9'^. 



In addition to the literary work heretofore noted lie ])re|)ared and 

 published in connection with the Academy, the College of Physicians 

 and the American Philosophical Society l)io<rraphical notices of the 

 followinjr persons: — 



Charles Pickeriui,', M. I). Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1878. 



William S. Vaux. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1882. 



Robert Bridges, M. D. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1882 aud 

 Proc. Am. Phil. Soc. , XXI, 1884. 



Thomas Stewardson. Trans. Col. Phys. Phila., 1884. 



Geortre Fox, M. D. Trans. Col. of Phys. Phila., 1884. 



Robert E. Rogers, M. D. Proc. Am. Phil. Soc, XXII, 1885. 



George W. Tryon, Jr. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1888. 



Caspar Wister, M. D. Trans. Col. Phys. Phila., 1890. 



Gouverneur Emerson, M. D. Proc. Am. Phil. Soc, XXIX 

 1891. 



Joseph Leidy, M. D. Proc. Am. Phil. Soc, XXX, 1892. 



William B. Rogers. Proc Am. Phil. Soc, XXXI, 1893. 



William V. Keating. M. D. Proc Am. Phil. Soc, XXXIII, 

 1895. 



These notices were all characterized by accuracy of detail and, for 

 the most part, sympathetic judgment and a generous acknowledgment 

 of merit. His last months were occupied in the congenial work of 

 collecting material for a history of the A<tademy. With much pains 

 and patience he had collected a mass of details from unexpected 

 sources regarding individuals long since dead and events almost 

 forgotten. No trouble was too great if it resulted in an addition to 

 knowledge or an increase of accuracy. It is related that on one 

 occasion he made a journey to Washington to verify a date, and the 

 amount of correspondence involved in his researches was such as to 

 discourage one not endowed with equal persistency or less enthusi- 

 astically devoted to the work. His manuscript notes are in the 

 fKjssession of the Academy and will be of value to the future historian 

 of the society. 



He was confined to his house during the winters of 1894 and 1895 




1895.] NATLKAL SCIENCES OF PHI LADEI.Fff I A. 461 



by ail aunoyiug l)roiichial affection, which, added to the intirmities of 

 advanced age, remleied it imprudent for him to encounter variations 

 of temperature. While thus prevented from giving the usual at- 

 tention to his official duties, his time was congenially occupied in 

 correspondence, composition and study, no diminution of mental 

 clearness or activity being apparent to the friends whom he greeted 

 so cordially. During the late winter his vital powers gradually but 

 steadily failed, until after six houreof unconsciousness the close of his 

 busv and useful life was reached, calmlv and without acute suffer- 

 ing, March '24th, in its eighty-eighth year. 



Dr. Ruschenberger was a man of striking individuality. The 

 dominant notes of his character were loyalty to truth, as he under- 

 stood it, and iins[)ariiig devotion to duty. His prejudices were strong 

 ami his affections warm. He was a strict disciplinarian, but he 

 never exacted from others what he was not prepared to render him- 

 self. He was frequently severe in his criticisms, which were, how- 

 ever, in the main salutary. While assuming a stern demeanor to 

 those whom he thought deficient in a .-iense of duty, to the earnest 

 student he wa.« always helpful and encouraging. To those who 

 knew him intimately, his innate gentleness was apparent, an affec- 

 tionate word or a kindly proffer of assistance, especially during his 

 later and les.s robust years, at once eliciting evidence of grateful 

 emotion. He was impatient of what he called "indirection," pre- 

 ferring on the part of others the frankness which he was not afraid 

 to employ himself. 



His {esthetic tastes were austere in the extreme. He cared but 

 little about art as such, and the utter absence of ornamentation from 

 the interior of the museum and library of the Academy is due to. 

 this peculiarity of the Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the 

 Building F'und rather than to economic nece.«sity. He once re- 

 marked that had he his way he would pull down to a level with 

 the house to{)8, all the church steeples, as they were unsightly and 

 usele.s8. Whether this feature of his character was due to inherit- 

 ance, to edu<;ation or to long a.ssociation with an ••nvironment where 

 the refinements of ornamenfatioM would be out of place cannot be 

 determined. His attitude t(»ward literature was etpially severe. 

 He reganled the matter-of-fact narrative of " Robinson Crusoe" as 

 the ideal novel, while the glowing imagery of Pierre Loti's "An 

 Iceland Fisherman" was pronounced " unreadable stuff." 




4(5'J PROCEEDINGS OK TH K ACADKMY OK [ISHf). 



He had, however, llmt precious eiidownieiit, a well devolped sense 

 of luniior. His coiiversuliun was tVfciuently enlivened hv the re- 

 lation of laughter- provokintj inciilenls from his wide and varied 

 experience, while the ^ood things related hy others were heartily 

 enjoyed hy him. 



A friend having asked him shortly after his eighty-third hirth- 

 day what he had learned of most value during his long life, he replied 

 after a moment's reflection, " Well. I believe 1 have learned not to 

 he too cock-sure of anything. " 



The otticial who endeavors to perform his duty without fear or 

 favor is certain to antagonize the ignorant, the selfish, and the un- 

 scrupulous as well as tho.se holtiing honestly diH'erent opinions. This 

 is equally true of the officer of a society, the chairman ot a connnittee 

 or a Metropolitan police commissioner. Dr. Ruschenherger was no 

 exception to the rule. When convinced that he was right he was, 

 notwithstanding his tolerant theories, but little disposed to make 

 concessions, sometimes holding tenaciously to his opinions even in the 

 face of an adverse decision by the majority. Hostile critics were 

 therefore not lacking, but he was probably consoled by the reflection 

 that " he who never had an enemy was never worthy of having a 

 friend." Friends, steadfast and warm, he had; friends to whom he 

 had endeared himself by his sterling qualities of heart and mind. 



While he treated the religious opinions of others with toleration 

 and respect, he left his own to be inferred. He certainly was not 

 in visible union with any recognized form of orthodoxy, and would 

 probably not resent the a.ssertion that he was in sympathy with 

 jiiodern agnosticism in its negative and least aggressive sense. If 

 an upright life devoted during all its active years to the intellectual 

 advancement of mankind, and a reverent recognition of the Divine 

 Mind in Kature be taken as evidence, then may we believe that had 

 Dr. Ruschenherger lived when men cherished the same truths under 

 different formula" his motto would have been nd Majnrem Dei 

 y/orlain. 



Messrs. Charles C. Harrison, John M. Justice and Howard W. 

 Dubois were elected members. 



The following papers were ordered to be printed: — 




1895.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF HHILADKI.PHI A. 463 



CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE ZOOLOGY OF TENNESSEE. 

 No -. BIRDS. 



15Y SAMIKL N. KlloADS. 



It has been thought desirable uot ouly to include in the following 

 annotated list of the avifauna of Tennessee a synopsis of the species 

 observed during my recent trip, but to make it comprehend all the 

 birds of which we have any record as now iniial)iting or formerly 

 occurring in the State.' 



I have consulted, among others, the following references, which 

 constitute nearly all the literature relating to the birds of Tennessee 

 that has come under my notice. 



Wilson, A.; American Ornithology, 1^10-11. 



Ord. G.: Sketch of Life of Alex. Wilson, l-s'js. 



Fox. W. H. : Stray Notes from I>ookout Mountain, Tennessee; 

 Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club. VII, 1S.S2, p. 191. 



Fox, W. II.: P.irds of Koane County, Tenne.><see. Auk, III, 



iMsr;. p. ;n."). 



Lemoyne, ; Motes on Hirds of the Great Smoky Mountains^ 



Tennessee. Orn., Oc.logist XI, 1886, pp. 11'). IIH, 149, 163, 179. 



Langdon, F. W. ; August Birds of the Chilhowee Moinitains, 

 T<Miu.'s.see. Auk. IV, 1^87. p. 133. 



Hasbrouck, K. M.; On the Ivory-billed Woodpecker and Caro- 

 lina i'aro<iuet. .Vnk, VIII, 1^91, pp. 183. 37X. 



I)r. ( '. Hart .Mcrriam has generously given me free use oi' manu- 

 script notes on the birds observed by him in the valley of the I.ittic 

 Tfune.ssee, opposite Chilhowee Mountain, duly 29, 1M87; also his 

 notes on the birds oltserved at Athens. McMinn County, Jidy 23 

 to 27. 1.SK7. 



In my ijuotations from the.se and from the pa))ers listed above I 

 have only made use of such notes as would be of value in supple- 



' Thr rradcr is mfprrod to tin- iirht |i.ii>ir oi tins serif-.. |':ii,'<'h •'l"rt to :W2 of the 

 l'r(i<«rc(liin,'s. for iin itini-niry of tin- author's trip throii^ih 'I'i'inH'(i.sfr and u tirief 

 synophis of the zoo-guography of the State. 




464 PKOrRKI)IN(JS OK TIIK ACADKMY OK [1895. 



menting or confirming my own, not inuiertakiut; to make the ret'er- 

 eiiceb iHnnpendioiis .save for riire or little known species. 



Kor a most viiluahle and interesting series ot" notes tVoni West 

 Teunesaee I am iniiehted. to my correspondent. Mr. Heniamin C. 

 Miles, of Hrown.-^ville. an old resident, acute observer of nature and 

 enthusiastic sport.-^man. Tlirougli his generon.s ettorts I am able 

 to put on a satisfactory basis the status of several birds which mufct 

 otherwise have been omitted from this list, an(i can present several 

 facte relating to the history of bird extermination in that part of 

 the Mississippi Valley, whicii are of great interest. It is my hope 

 that this paper, the first attempt to give the |niblic a resume of the 

 ornitliology of a long neglected (•(Humonwealth, may insjnre her 

 people to a desire for something better in this line of educational work. 



The entire collection of Tennessee birds brought back to the 

 Academy only nund)ers sixty skins, no attempt being made to 

 secure any but the rarest species, or others for purposes of identifi- 

 cation. The names of specie.* of which there are specimens in this 

 collection are preceded by an asterisk. 



The whole number of species and subspecies given in the foUow- 

 iuL-^ list is 214. Of these 10 are of doubtful record or identity, 

 although they all belong to the Tennessee fauna. 



Dr. Fox's list records 1 16 species and subspecies of Tennessee 

 birds. To this add 10 species recorded by J^iemoyne, viz.: Accipifrr 

 rp/().r, Aquila chriiS(irto>i, Falco f/crer/riiiH.'i aixifum, Paiidion linluvfuK 

 raroiinohti.'i, Si/rniKm nehaloxum, Vireo xolHariiis nlficoln, IJcltnin- 

 thojihUn rhrj/mpff^ra, Deiidroira c(P.nilp^reii.\ Sylvaiiia cniKidrnsix and 

 Pariix iifrica])i!li(f, and to ihis a.^iun add four, viz.: Ampelis cerlro- 

 ntm, Dendroicd penayhunirn, Dcndroicn en mien and Dri/ohafrs rlllo- 

 .■♦»/.•< recorded in Langdon's list, and we have i:>() species and sub- 

 species. To this may be added those recorded by Wilson, viz. : 

 Fjlanoides forficafua, Connnix raro/iiioixi.", Hr/iii!nlli(ijilii/<i rtifif^opiUit 

 and Hphninthophlla pprrf/rhia, making the total iiinnber recorded 

 j)revious to the present list, 134. 




1895.] NATIKAI- SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 466 



Order PYGOPODES. 

 Family PODICIPIDiE. 

 Genus COLYMBUS Linna?u6. 



1. Colymbus holbcelli (Keinh.). Holbcell's Grebe. 



A bird which 1 fouud lying on n stump iu Keeltbot Lake almost 

 certainly belonged to this species. It had evidently been laid there 

 by a gunner the previous winter ;iu(l was in a badly decomposed 

 state, but the long, slender i)ill and large size were characteristic 

 enough for identification. 



Genus PODILYMBUS Lesson. 



2. Podilymbus podiceps ( L. ). Pied-billed Grebr. 



Observed al Hamburg. It is not unlikely that they breed in that 

 region. 



Family URINATORID^. 

 Genus URINATOR Cuvier. 



3. Urinator imber ( Giitiii. ». Loon. 



Mounted specimen.^ were seen on several occasions, some of which 

 were undoubtedly taken in the State, though I did not take pains 

 to verify the occurrence. Owing to the absence of lakes or ponds 

 in the loftier eastern niountains it is not proliable that tiie Loon 

 breeds anywhere in 'rcniifsscc. Laudcnhde and Haywood Coun- 

 ties, in winter, B. ( '. .Mih-s. 



4. Urinator lumme ((mimii.). Ued-tliroated Loon. 



I am under the impression that a pair of this species, in the pos- 

 session of Mr. Schmidt of Memphis, were taken in the State, but an 

 •A number of birds in his collection were broughf from a locality in 

 .Vrkaiisas on the opposite side of the Mississippi, the record is 

 doubtful. 



(^rder L()N(4IPENNES. 



Family LARID^. 

 Genus LARUS Linnirii.s. 



5. LaruR argentatus smithsonianus Cones. Herring Gnll 



Mounted specimens in Memphis. Reports of n large gull at 

 Keelfoot Lake during spring migration must refer to this bin!. 



It winters along the Mississippi below St. I^ouis. Mr. Miles 

 refers to a gull which he has seen on the Mississippi, "size of a 




466 ruiMKKDiNos oi' iiiK A<•AllK^^^ m- [189/). 



pigt'OM witli very loii^ wings," wliidi jirohahly refers to the King- 

 Mllfii (Jiill L. (Ii hiivifreii.ti.i. 



Family RYNCHOPID^. 



Genus RYNCHOPS Liniui-iis. 



6. Bynohops nigra iL. '. Mlark skinm r 



A specimen was foiiiid dead in ()l)i(in ("ountv after a severe storm 

 l)y Mr. J. A. (^raig. who gave me an aceount of it. 



Order .STE(iAN()PC)I)ES. 



Family ANHINGIDJE. 



Genus ANHINGA Hiisson. 



7. Anhinga anhinga ( L. ). Snake Bird, Anliiuga. 



This hird is fonnd about Memphis and it is prol)ahle that it 

 it occurs on Reelfoot I>ai<e, though I was unable to identify 

 it among the numerous " Water-turkeys" frequenting the Lake, 

 that name being ajiplied to both this species and the Cormo- 

 rant. There is a Cypress swamj) about four miles from Samburg 

 across the lake in wiiicli a "Turkey Roost" has existed for a long 

 period, but which has l)een practically abandoned because of the 

 destruction of the young birds, for bait, by the fishermen. The 

 nests are built in the tops of the tallest cypresses and this fact seems 

 to |»rove pretty conclusively that the Anhinga bred there, though it is 

 n(jt impossil)le that the Cormorants have adopted the same rookery and 

 nesting sites in preference to their usual habitations among the 

 brushes on the lake shore. Haywood and I^auderdale Counties, 

 nesting in Mississippi bottoms : Miles. 



Family PHALACROCORACIDJE. 

 Genus PHALACROCORAX Brissou. 



8. Phalacrocorax dilophus floridanus ( And. ). Florida Connurant. 



9. ? Phalacrocorax mexicanus { Brandt ). Mexican Cormorant. 



( ormorants are quite abundant at Heel foot Lake. Among the 

 commoner species ( /*. d. fiorifkinuH) I observed a few, which, by 

 their solitary and seclusive habits, light coloration and smaller size 

 were probably the Mexican bird, and previous records of mexicanun 

 on the eastern shore of the Mi8sis8i[)pi as far north as Cairo, Illinois, 

 give color to this supposition. Haywood and T.,auderdale Coun- 

 ties ; Miles. 




1895.] NATIJKAI. SCIENCES OK I'll IJ.ADEI.FHI A. 467 



Family PELECANID^. 

 Genus PELECANUS. 



10. Pelecanus erythrorhynchos (Gmel). White Pelican. 



Seen occasionally alona the valley. A mounted specimen shot 

 at Samhurg, in the possession of a hotel keeper in Union City, 

 was examined. 



Order ANSERES. 



Family ANATID^. 



Genus MERGANSER l.innaius. 



11. Merganser americanus U'as.s.). Amerieaii Merfjaii.ser. 



Two were seen on the lake near Samburg. This and the Red- 

 breasted are j)robably included in Mr. Miles "Bhelldrake" records 

 for Havwood and I^auderdale Counties. 



Genus LOPHODYTES Keielienbae.h. 



12. Lophodytes cucuUatus iL. i. Hooded Meruanser. 



One .'ieen on Tennessee River near Chattanooga. It nio.«t likely 

 breeds in the State. Probably one of the three kinds of "Summer 

 Ducks" mentioned by .Mr. Miles as breeding in trees in Haywood 

 (>)unty is this species. 



Genus ANAS Linnteus. 



13. Anas boschas L. Mallard. 



Abounding in winter in the Missi.ssippi Valley. Haywood and 

 Lauderdale Counties ; Miles, ^^enlphis and Reelfoot Lake: gun- 

 ners. 



14. Anas obscura < miel. Hl:i<k Duck. 



Mounted specimen.- at Mcniphis. Havwood and Laudenlale 

 Counties: ^^lles. 



15 Anas discors I. liliie-winced Teal. * 



A H(»ck of eight ieA regularly in a little slough near Sami)urg 

 during my sojourn there. 



< )t her pairs were seen (»n tlie lake and it is possible lliev were 

 summer renidents. Uoane ('ouutv, migrant, I'r. W. H. Fo.x. 

 naywoo<l and Lauderdale Counties: .Miles. 



16 Anas oarolinensis < Muel. (ireen-winu'ed 'I'eal. 



Reported io me by the gunuer>. StuHed specimen.- seen at Mem- 

 phis. Ha\ woimI and Lamlerdale ('ounlies; Miles. 




•468 PROCKKIMNUS OK TMK ACADEMY OF [1895. 



17. Anas strepera I., (inilwiill. 



Mounted specimen at Memphis. This is evidently the duck 

 "No. 2," to which the tolU)\vinjr allusions are made by Mr. Miles: 

 "As to Summer Duck [there are] 1 Wood Duck; 2 [a duck] said 

 to nest on jjround, ."^een here [Haywood County] at all seasons — 

 size ot" Teal; male and female very similar, marked like female 

 Mallard; heard them called young mallard — seen and shot them 

 myself for forty years: harely fit to eat." 



18. Anas americana Giiiel. Haldpate. 



Mountain S])ecimen8 examined, presumably from near Memphis. 

 Haywood County: Miles. This name is also applied to the BufHe- 

 head. Mr. Mile.« doe? not think he ever saw the true Baldpate. 



Genus SPATULA Boie. 



19. Spatula clypeata (L.). Shoveller. 



Specimen in Mr. Schmidt's collection. Remains of one at Sam- 

 burg. " Killed one several year? ago," Miles. 



Genus DAFILA Stephens. 



20. Dafila acuta (L.). Pintail. 



Likewise found in Mr. Schmidt's collection of mounted game. 

 Haywond and Lauderdale Counties; Miles. A female killed the 

 first week in March, 1887, by Mr. Miles, contained a fully devel- 

 oped egg. 



Genus AIX Boie. 



21. Aix sponsa (L. ). Wood Duck. 



Noteil all across the State, where it is a summer resident. 



Genus AYTHYA Boie. 



22. Ay thya americana ( Eyt. I Hedhtad. 



Mounted specimens at Memphis. Haywood and Lauderdale 

 Counties; Miles. 



23. Aythya vallisneria (Wils. i. Canvas-back. 



?Iay\\ood and Lauderdale Counties; Miles. Called "Fall 

 Duck" in West Tennessee; "common twenty years ago, now not 

 seen." 



24. Aythya marila nearctioa Stejn. .\riierican Scaup Duck. 



Mounted specimens at Memphis. "Have seen, I think, and 

 heard called Canvasback," Miles, 




I 



1895.] XATIKAI- SCIKNCKS OK PHII.ADEL,PHi A. 469 



25. Aythya aifinis ( Eyt. ). Lesser Scaup Duck. 

 One found dead at Samburg. 



26. Aythya coUaris (Douov. i. King-necked Duck. 



Under the name, "Fall Duck," Mr. Miles contributes the follow- 

 ing notes: "Only seen September to November or December; for 

 eating excelled by none save partridge [Duck]. In the fall of 

 1875 killed about thirty on ditlerent hunt* — have not seen it in ten 

 years." The name "Fall Duck" is also applied to this bird in 

 Minnesota. I think Mr. Miles has confounded it somewhat with the 

 Canvasl)ack. 



Genus GLAUCIONETTA Stejneger. 



27. Glaucionetta clangula americana (Bouap.). American Golden Kye. 



Mr. Mile.* sent iiic a de.scription oi' one of these Ducks, which he 

 killed several years ago near Brownsville. Since then he verified 

 his identification by the figure and description of this species in 

 Mr. Chapman's book. Birds of Ea.stern North America. It may be 

 stated that other species, whose identification rests on Mr. Miles' 

 authority, have been confirmed by him in the same manner. 



Genus CHARITONETTA Stejneger. 



28. Charitonetta albeola ( L.). IJufflc- Head. 



Specimens in mounted collection of Mr. Schmidt. This bird, Mr. 

 Miles informs me, is called "Baldpate" by the gunners in his region. 



Genus CLANGULA Leach. 



29. Clangula hyemalis (L. j. Old Squaw. 



Respecting this species Mr. Miles .says: "Have seen once." 



Genus ERISMATURA Bonaparte. 



30. Erismatura rubid.i ( Wfls. ). Kuddy Dmk 



Mounted specimens examine<l. Mr. Miles de.scribes the "Partridge 

 I)uck," l)y whii'h name alone it i.s known to the gunners 

 of West Tennes.see. This name is not to be found in Trum- 

 bull's lM)ok. Mr. Miles has kiilt-d them in Haywood and Lauder- 

 (iaU' ('oinities in F'ebnuiry, Novend)er and December. an<l says: 

 " Not common here at any time, but always known." In a subse- 

 <|uent letter h«' fails to identify his "Partridge Duck'" with this or 

 :iny other species de»<crilM-d in Mr. ( haftman's Ornithology. I con- 

 tinue to think, however, that it is the Knddv Duck. 




•170 FR(K'KEr)lN<»S OK TUK At'AMKMY <>K [1896. 



Genua CHEN Boie. 



31. Chen hyperboreal Snow (ioose. 



A Snow Goose, presumably I lie lesser variety, was seen during 



the winter of lS!).S-94. in Haywood County, by Mr. B. ('. Miles. 



It reiuaineil there all winter in the company of" a Hock of Canada 



Geese. 



Genus BRANTA Scopoli. 



32. Branta canadensis t L. i. ('anada (loosi-. 



Soon after my arrival at Sambur<j I wa.s .surpriserl to hear the 

 honking of a Hoek of wild geese. The noise continuing I was im- 

 pressed by its resemblance to that made by the Canada Goose, and 

 a.sked my landlord what it meant, as it seemed to proceed trom the 

 mainland in.>Jtead of the lake. He told me it came from a flock of 

 Canada CJeese, which had been raised some vears previously from 

 a set of eggs taken on the lake.' A few days later I came acro.ss 

 the birds in a little meadow behind the village and found them to 

 be exactly as represented. Long, familiaritv with man had com- 

 pletely reversed their natures. So far from showing alarm at my 

 approach they greeted me boisterously, and, led by a large gander, 

 advanced to meet me with outstretched necks and a chorus of defiant 

 notes. This gave me a fine op})ortunity to determine that they were 

 typical riiiiiideii!ii.% and at the same time test the strength of a wing- 

 shot from the enraged gander as he danced around for a flank move- 

 ment while I was making advances upon his family. Strange to 

 say, these gee.se never showed any disposition to wan<ler beyond the 

 village limits, though they had free access to the lake, either by 

 walking or by swimming down Indian Creek. Mr. H. B. Young. 

 who has fished and trapped in this region for, many years, gave me 

 souje interesting notes on the habits of these birds. Old residents 

 agree that twenty years ago not a goose remained to breed in that 

 country. At the pre.sent time several pairs, perhaps as many ais 

 twenty, nest there every .season, and two or three .sets of eggs ai*e 

 yearly transferred from their care to that of domestic fowls. 



At Keelfoot Lake the goose nearly always builds in the lo|» of a 

 blasted tree over the water, sometimes nesting as high as fifty feet or 

 even higher. When the young are hatched the gander soon gets 

 notice of it and swims around the foot of the tree uttering loud cries. 



' See L. (). Pindar. .\iik. III. 18«B. p. 4H1. for a iin-vioiis reconi, 




1895.] NATIKAI. SCIENCES OK PHlLADKLFJf I A. 471 



On a sigual from mother goose he redoubles his outcries aud, describing 

 a large circle immediately beueath the nest, beats the water with his 

 wings, (lives, paddles and slaslies abcjut with the greatest fury, mak- 

 ing such a terrible noise and commotion that he can be heard for 

 several miles. This effectually drive.«^ away from that .^^ixtl every 

 catfish, spoonbill, loggerhead, hellbender, moccasin, water-snake, 

 eagle, mink and otter that might take a fancy to young goslings 

 and into the midst of the commotioD, mother goose, by a few deft 

 thrusts of her bill, spills the whole uestful. But a few seconds 

 elapse ere the reunited family are noiselessly padtlling f()r the shores 

 of some secluded cove with nothing to mark the scene of their ex- 

 ploits l)ut a few feathers and upturned water-plants an<l al»ove 

 them the huge white cypress with its deserted nest. 



" Nearly every summer young geese were captured at Open Lake, 

 in Lauderdale ( 'ouiitv, but thev never bree«l there now. I hear." 

 B. C. .Mile.. 



33. ? Branta nigricans (I>awr. ) Black Brant. 



I have the following from Mr. Miles. "We have the iilack- 

 breasted Brant, one of which I killed many years ago." Whether 

 this was nir/rifftns or our eastern bcrnicla is uncertain. Judging 

 Ity the name used by Mr. Miles and the fact that itiynatiis is often 

 taken in the Mississippi Valley, it was very likely the former. 



Genus OLOR WaKler, 



34. Olor columbianus (Ord ). WhiHtling Swan. 



35. Olor buccinator (Rich ). Trumiifter Swan. 



Swans are now rather rare at Keelfoot Lake. A few were seen 

 the present (1895) spring, but which species it is difficult to state. 

 That both species are likely to pass along the Mississippi Valley is 

 sufficient rea.«ion for not omitting >nlinnlninniK, which is the rarer of 

 the two in that region. 



Mr. Miles writes: "The Swan wa- formerly quit* plentiful here, 

 though I doubt if one has been seen in ihi.s or Lauderdale C'ouuty, 

 on the water, in ten years." 



Order HEHODIONES. 



Family ARDEIDJE. 



Genus BOTAURUS .SLplunN. 



36. Botaurui lenti^inoias < MotitaK. ). .Amttriran Rittorn. 



Two of these birds were killed (presumably in Haywood Co. ) by 




472 HR<K;K>;n[N(»s ok tiik acadkmy ok [1895. 



Mr. B. ('. Miles, "in broom sedj^c mi a hill." Mr. Miles writes; — 

 " I am certain he does not breed here." 



Genus ARDETTA (iray. 



37. Ardetta exilis ((Jniel J. Least Hit Urn. 

 Mounted specimens in Mr. Schmidt's collection. 



Genus ARDEA LinnH-us. 



38. Ardea herodias L. (Jreat Hliu' Heron. 



Becoming a rare bird in Tennessee. A few mounted specimeus 

 were seen. Living birds were noted at San)burg, Memphis, Raleigh 

 and Harriman. Dr. Merriam notes one July 29, 1887, in the 

 valley of the Little Tennessee. Haywood and Landerdale Counties; 

 Miles. 



39. Ardea candidissima limel. Snowy Heron. 



Two or three mounted specimens examined. "Seen in flocks of 

 12 or 15, apparently on passage and again singly"; Miles. 



40. Ardea virescens L. (Jreen Heron. 



Observed all across the State. Dr. Fox and Mr. Langdon both 



record it. 



Genus NYCTICORAX Stephens. 



41. Nycticorax nyoticorax naevius (Bodd.). Black -crowned Night Heron. 



I did not see this species, but heard one at night at Greeueville. 

 Dr. Fox records it from Roane County. Its apparent absence from 

 western Tennessee is unaccountable to me. Mr. Mile? never s^aw 

 one there. 



Order PALUDICOLiE. 



Family GRUID^. 

 Genus GRUS Pallas. 



42. Grus americana (L. ). Whooping Crane. 



43. Grus mexicana (Miill.). Sandhill Crane. 



Respecting these Mr. Miles writes: — "All the cranes you describe, 

 save the red head, have seen in last 25 years, and my friends have 

 killed them up to ten years since. All are [were] on flight." The 

 words, "save the red head" apply to breeding males of G. mexicana 

 which Mr. Miles has evidently not seen. It is probable that his 

 remarks apply also to the little Brown (Jrane, (i. canadevsi». 



Genus RALLUS f/innsens. 



44. *RalluB elegans And. King Rail. 



One was taken alive in the office of the Rossmore Hotel, Chatta- 

 nooga, during my stay there. It was apparently a breeding bird. 




1895.] NATIKAI, SCIENCES OF PH F LADKLPHI A. 473 



Genus POEZANA Vieillot. 

 4 5.*Porzana Carolina ( L.). Sora Rail. 



Abiiudtint around Reelfoot Lake, where, by its noise and actioufi' 

 it seemed to be breediuir. 



A specimen was taken and another seen near Bellevue on the 

 '20th of May in a small upland swamp. 



Genus GALLINULA B^is^sou. 



46. Gallinula galeata (Licht. ). Florida Gallinule. 



Tliis i.s without much doubt the "Lead-colored Dumpy Duck" 

 which Mr. Miles includes among the species which breed in his 

 region. He says it is ' 'rarely seen now, but common 20 years since — 

 not fit for table," etc. He does not confound this with the Cool, 

 which he describes (I.e. ; a.< distinct. 



Genus FULICA I.inn*u8. 



47. Fulica amerioana <imcl. .\iuericaii (out. 



Abundant on Keelfoot Lake where they breed. Reported alsn 

 from the interior; Nashville. Several in the city park at Memphis. 

 Roane County; Fox. Under the name " Didop|)er." Mr. Miles 

 gives a careful and accurate description of this bird, (^tating it to be 

 common in all waters. He has killed them on flats several hundred 

 yards from water. 



Order LLMICOL^.. 

 Faraily SCOLOPACIDiE. 

 Genus PHILOHELA (iray. 



48. Philohela minor ((Tiiiel.i. AiiHTitan Woodcock. 



Reported from several points, and specimens examine*!, but not 

 seen in the flesh. Roane County; Fox. ^^)re numerous in mi- 

 grations in Haywood County. "Very scarce of bite years, though 

 even now they nest with us." — Miles. 



Genus GALLINAGO Leach 



49. Gallinagfo delicata ( Ord ». Wilson'.s Snipe. 



Noted at Samburg and Meniphia. Fox says they are abundant 

 ill Roane County during spring migrations. "In large nund)er8 

 some years and in others not at all," in Haywood Coiintv. "A tew, 

 1 have heard, breed here, never saw a nest." — Miles. 



Genui EREUNETES IlliKer. 



50. lEreunetes pusillui (L. ). StimipHlniatcd Sandpiper. 



Four or five sandpipers were seen on the shores of a rocky pond 




■I'-i I'KOCKKDINOS OK rilK ACADRMV OK [1895. 



Oil South Harpetli rivt-r in the nortlieni cnnuT of Williatiisoii 

 County. They were very tame, heiii<; ir<>rfre<l with the small mol- 

 lusks {Sfrrpdiiiiitidif ) ahoumliiiir on the halt-exposed rocks, and I 

 feel assured of the correctness of inv identitication. This is proltahlv 

 the species seen in com|)any with Wilson's plover in Havwood 

 County by Mr. Miles. 



Genus TOTANUS lUclistvin. 

 61. Totanus melanoleucus ( Giiu'l.K (iroater Yellow Legs. 



One was .seen in company with the sandpipers above noted. 

 Auotlier was heard at Sanihiirg and stuffed specimens noted at 

 Memphis. 



52. Totanus solitarius I \Vi Is. ). .Solitary Sandpiper. 



Observed at Samburg, Memphis, Kaleiirh, Nashville and Belle- 

 vue. Noted in spring in Roane Conuty by Fox and in the Chilhowee 

 Monutaiue in late August i)y Laugdon. 



The late date at which I observed a pair near Bellevue (May 



20th.) would indicate that they do not go tar out of the .State to 



breed. 



Genus B ARTE AMI A Lesson. 



53. Bartramia longicauda (Bechst. i. Martratniaii Sandpiper. 



I did not observe this species, though I fancied I heard it passiug 

 over in West Tennessee. It is doubtful that it breeds at all in the 

 exact localities I explored, but owjng to its peculiarly local prefer- 

 ences, will no doul)t be found to summer in some of the country r// 

 route. Dr. Merriam observed Hve plover ffyitig over Athens, 

 McMiun Co., " whicii seenie<l to be this species." 



Genus ACTITIS Boie. 



54. Actitis macularia ( L. ). .Spotted Sandpiper. 



Numerous all over the State below 3,000 feet elevation, but rarer 

 among the mountains. 



Genus NUMENIUS Brisson. 

 56. INumenius longirostris VVilR. Lung-billed Curlew. 

 Stuffed specimens seen at Memphis. 



Family CHARADRIIDiE. 



Genus JEGIALITIS Boie. 

 56. .Egialitis vooifera ( L. ). Kildeer. 



Seen at Nashville, Bellevue, Chattanooga, and Johnson City. 

 Roane Co., Fox. Not noted in West Tennessee; Miles. 




1895.] NATCRAf, SCIENCES OK PHILADELPHIA. 475 



57. ^.Egialitis semipalmata Bonap. Semipalniated Plover. 



58. 1.5;gialitis meloda circumcincta Ridgw. Belted Pipinp EMover. 



()ue or both of these specie.^ are alluded to by Mr. Miles ar^ Riiig- 

 iieck Plovers, with a call note "Pee, Pee," which remain "a few 

 days in spring and fall," in company with another species without 

 the ring. The latter was probably a Sandpiper, Erennetes. 



Order GALLING. 



Genus COLINTJS Lesson. 



59. Colinus virginianus (L. ). Buli White. 



In no part of the United States have I seen our eastern Quail so 

 abundant as it was in West and Middle Tennessee. It was also 

 numerous in the mountains, a pair being seen on Roan Mountain 

 just l)elow the fir belt at a height of nearly 5,000 feet. 



Genus BONASA Stephens. 



60. Bonasa umbellus (L. ). Kuffed Grouse. 



•Seen at Sawyer's Springs, Harrirnan, Allardt, Johnson Citv and 

 Ivoan Mountain. In my experience I would say this bird was rare 

 in all localities. Fox says ''rather common in the mountains" of 

 K(jan Co. Langdon ,<aw one on Mt. Nebo. Lookout Mountain; Fox 



Genus MELEAGRIS Linnscus. 



61. Meleagris gallopavo T.. Wild Turkey. 



The Turkey exists in considerable numbers in secluded parts of 

 the Cumberland plateau ami the Great Smoky Range. It was 

 reported to me at Sawyer's Springs, Allardt, and Roan Mountain, 

 but I did not see any. Roan Co., Fox. ('hilhowee Mta., Langdon. 



Mr. Miles inform.s me that in Haywood County it is a rather 

 scarce bird but in the last few years it' seems to be ''on the 

 increase." Continuing, he writes: "In 1H91 saw a drove number- 

 ing at lea.st forty, this in February, and know of at least ten broods 

 now ... in the county. Last year there were killed about forty 

 that I saw or heard of." 



Genus ECT0PISTE8 Swaiu.son. 



62. Eotopistes migratorius (L. ). I':is.seiif{er Pigeon 



The general verdict of Tonnes-seeaiiH regarding this bird is in line 

 with that of other parts of the c/)untry. They are rarelv seen, some 

 dating the last occurrence of the sj^ecies in Tennessee back nine years. 




476 PROCEKHINOS Oh THK ACAFiKMY OF [1895. 



For the best acroiint of tlie (lisuppearaiice of this celehrated l)ir(l in 

 Tennessee, I am a<rain indelilcfl to Mr. Miles; he says: " Wihl 

 Pigeons last visiteil our section [Brownsville] in nnrnhers in the 

 year 1881, hut were not as numerous as al)out eifjht years before — 

 I renieniher that 1 remarked then they were depleted. In the 

 fall of 1H9.S, Mr. Riddirk of this town killed one of a Hock of eight, 

 five miles from here — the last I know of being in the county. The 

 first I remember of them n)ust have been in the year I.Sol, when I 

 was five years old. They roosted that fall ten miles from here and 

 about a mile from our home. Permission was given me to go with 

 the negroes to the roost, and I well remember one of them j)ut me in 

 a cotton hamper and carried me on his shoulders, and how scared I 

 was at the noise when we arrived — however, we got our bags and 

 baskets full; killed them with poles — and got back early. That was 

 my first taste of sport and I have been a sportsman ever since. As 

 near as I can recall the dates, we had them in 1853—1855 — that 

 year I had a gun and shot then^ in Carroll County, this State. In 

 1856 I went to Virginia ... In 1863 in Virginia they were as 

 plenty as ever. In 1865 I was here [Brownsville] and that fall a 

 few came in scattering flocks and I was ready for them. In 1866 

 there were more than in '65, in '67 more still, though not in the 

 overwhelming numbers, and we feared their extermination then. 

 Thence till '81, while there were every year more or less to be 

 killed easily, we saw them no more in droves. That year they came 

 for the last time, and as though to take our farewell shot, every one, 

 black and white, turned out and the slaughter was fearful, and 

 months after they left, the wounded could be found . . . and I 

 heard and believe that in isolated cases they nested in our bottoms 

 — the only cases I heard of here in my day, though the negroes told 

 me of the time they used to nest here — as near as I could guess, in 

 the '40s." 



Genus ZENAIDTJRA Bonaparte. 



63. Zenaidura macroura (L.). .Mourning Dove. 



Very al)un<iant everywhere, except in the mountains, where it 

 becomes rare at 3,000 feet elevation. 



Genus COLUMBIGALLINA Boie. 



64. Columbigallina passerina terrestris (C'hapm.). (iround Dove. 



I was greatly surprised while walking along the road from Harri- 




1895.] NATI^RA I- SCIENCES OK PHII.A OEI^PHI A. 477 



man to Kingston, about a half mile from the former town, to see a 

 Ground Dove stepping along only fifty feet ahead of me. It flew 

 into a tree by the roadside, and as I approached, flew away entirely 

 out of siirht. 



The small size and square cut tail, to say nothing of its color, so 

 jK)sitively showed it to be this species that I have little hesitation in 

 including it here. Had I not formerly made the acquaintance of 

 this bird in Florida, and become aware of its having beeii taken in 

 the District of Columbia and at Ix)cke, Michigan, this occurrence 

 would have been passed over as a case of mistaken identity. There 

 is no probability that the Ground Dove is more than a strai^gler 

 across the eastern confines of the Appalachian system at this latitu<lt'. 

 It IS more probable this bird came directly north from Georgia or 

 Alabama than from the C'arolinas, and its casual occurrence in 

 Southwestern Tennessee would be far less extraordinary than the 

 one just recorded. 



Order RAPTORES. 



Family CATHARTID^. 



Genus CATHARTES Illiger. 



65. Cathartes aura (L.). Turkey Vulture. 



I saw this useful and conspicuous bird wherever I remained long 

 enough to make any records. It was seen above Roan Mountain. 

 They breed in great numbers along the east escarpment of the 

 Cumberland Plateau. 



Genus CATHARI8TA Vieillot. 



66. Catharista atrata ( Bartr. ) Black Vulture. 



The abundance of this s[)ecies all oVer the State was a surprise to 

 me. It was not found, however, east of the Tennessee Vallev, but 

 was observed at nearly every other station. It was nearly always 

 in (rompany with the Turkey Vulture in the pro|M)rtion of one ntrata 

 to three aura, and they were evidently nesting together along the 

 rocky cliHi? east of Sawyer's Springs which overlook the wide valley 

 of East Tennessee. Fo.x records them in flocks in Hoane Countv. 

 Monroe County, " breeds," Lenioyne. " lireeds in the Forked Deer 

 bottom, 10 miles N. E. of" Brownsville, B. C. Miles. Ix>okout 

 Mountain, " breeds," Fox. 



{ 




478 PROCKKI>INOS OF TMK ACAMKMV OK [1895. 



Family FALCONIDiE. 



Geuus ELANOIDES Vi.-illot. 



67. Elanoides forfloatus (I...). Swallitw-tailcd Kite. 



Wilson's is the first and imly Tennessee lecoid i'or this Kite 

 that I can discover. In th«' American Ornithology he says 

 (Vol. VI, 1(S12. |). 70); "I met these birds, in tlie early part of 

 May at a place called Dnek Creek, in Tennessee." 



From the known course of his route, this was in Hickman 

 County, about forty miles east of the Tennessee River, in the Duck 

 River bottoms near the east boundary of Maury County. The 

 Swallow-tailed Kite is likely to be found anywhere in west Tennes- 

 see in summer, where the bottom lands afford it congenial sur- 

 roundings and good nesting sites. 



Of this species Mr. Miles writes: "I think I killed one fifteen 

 years since, and have seen one since, though very rare." 

 Genus ELANU8 Savigny. 



68. Elanus leucurus ( Vicill.). Whiie-tiiiled Kite. 



Haywood and Lauilerdale Counties; B. C. Miles. See note for 

 next species. 



Genus ICTINIA Vieillot. 



69. lotinia mississippiensis (Wiln. ). Mississippi Kite. 



A Kite, whose appearance (nost closely resembled this species, 

 was seen soaring for a long time over a meadow near Raleigh. 

 From its actions I judged it to have a nest in the neighborhood. 

 Mr. Miles refers to this and the preceding species as follows: "Of 

 the hawk we call' the Blue Darter w-e have two, one marked as 

 you describe [A7a?i».»< /euciirjis'] and one noticeably darker llctinia 

 mississippiemitil have thought heretofore they were the sexes." 



Genus CIRCUS Laci'pede. 



70. Circus hudsonius (L.j. .Marsh Hawk. 



Single individuals seen at Samburg, Raleigh. Bellevue and Har- 

 riman. Messrs. Fox and Langdon do not record it. 



Genus ACCIFITER Bris-son 



71. Aooipiter velox (Wils. ). Sharp-shinned Hawk. 



Noted by Lemoyne along the Smoky Mountain range, where he 

 found it "not common." 




1895.] NATl'KAJ. SClKNCKfS OK FHI J.AUKI.PH I A. -179 



Genus BUTEO Ciivier. 



72. Buteo borealis (Gmel.). Ked-tailed Hawk. 



73. Buteo lineatus ((imel.i. Red-shouldered Hawk. 



My records of these are too eoufused to separate them. Both 

 species however were jjeeii and identified both alive and stufted. 



Western records of horea/ix were made on hearing their notes, 

 but I afterwards found that the jays of that region imitated these 

 with such exactness that I could not rely on the records I had pre- 

 viously made. 



Both of the.«e hawks arc rare summer residents in the parts 

 visited by me. 



74. Buteo latissimus (Wil.s. i. Hroad-witiKcd Ihiwk. 



In cast Tctiiies.soe this is the most abundatit hawk, especially so 

 anioiiL'' the mountains, where I found it at the loftiest elevations. 

 Geuus AQUILA Urisson. 



75. Aquila chrysaetos i L. ). (ioldcn Easile. 



This eagle is occasionally seen at Roan Mountain, in which neigh- 

 borhood thev are resident. 



Set of eggs and nesting birds taken on Bald Mountain fBlounl 

 ( 'ounty ) ; Lemoyne. 



Genus HALI^ETUS Savigny. 



76. Haliaeetus leucocephalus (L. i. Bald Eagle. 



Several mounted skins were noted. It is said to breed at Sam- 

 buiLT. 1 iliinU I saw one from the top of Roan Mountain. Saw 

 one in a cage at Union City. 



Genus FALCO Liiiiiiiiis. 



77. Falco peregrinus anatum f lioiuip. i. I>ii(k H;iwk. 



While walchinir a liock of vultures circle ai)out me on the cliffs 

 near Siiwver's Springs a Duck Hawk suddenly <iashed among them 

 with a shrill scream and in a few moments had scattered them far 

 away over the valley. It tlii-u returned lo its eyrie near the ca.«- 

 i-adc of Falling Water. Brtcding in the (ireat Snioky Moiintain.H, 

 I >emovne. 

 "8. Falco sparverius I, .SpHrmw Hawk 



Noted at Saml)Urg, Raleigh, Bclbvuc ami ( 'liattanonga. and at 

 intermediate [)oints along the railroail lines. Not us common as in 

 the Middle States. Not seen in the mountaiuH, but noted tluTc bv 

 Fox and L'lngdon and Lemoyne, the latter stating it is rare. 




480 TKtX KK|IIN(JS OK TIIK A( All^:.M^ 0|- [1895. 



Genus PANDION. 



79. Pandion haliaetus caroliiiensis Ktinel. i. Aiiuiicaii o.sprey. 



St'eii in Ui)aii County in April by Fox. I did not see it at Sain- 

 Imrg l)ut the fishermen there spoke of it. Great Smoky Range, 

 Li'inoyne. 



Family STRIGID^. 

 Genus STRIX Linna>U8. 



80. Strix pratinoola Bonap. Barn Owl. 



A pair of tliese in captivity were examined at Union City. 



Genus SYRNIUM Saviyny. 



81. Syrnium nebulosum (Foist.). Marred Owl. 



The unmistakable call of this owl was heard at Hamburg, Raleigh 

 and Bellevue. Breeding at base of Bald Mountain fBIoimt 

 County); common at all altitudes in the Smokies; Lemoyne. 



Genus MEGASCOPS Kaup. 



82. Megascops asio ( L. j. Screech Owl. 



Mounted specimens were the only ocular proof I had of the 

 pres?ence of this bird in Tennessee. I did not even hear one during 

 the entire trip, l)ut was assured of their being common enough for 

 the every day needs of the more su|)erstitious natives. Chilhowee 

 Mountains; Langdon. Roane County; Fox. Not connnon in the 

 Great Smoky Mountains; Lemoyne. 



Genus BUBO Duiniril. 



83. Bubo virginianus ((tiikI.). (Jreat Horned Owl. 



Noted from Samburg, Raleigh and Sawyer's Springs and mounted 

 specimen.^ examined. Langdon noted it at 4,000 feet in the mountains. 

 The most common owl in the Smokies: Lemoyne. 



Order I'SITTACL 



Family PSITTACID^. 

 Genus CONURTIS Kuhl. 



84. Conurus carolinensis (!.. I. ( arolina I'aroquet. 



The first notice of this bird in Tennessee was made by Alexander 

 Wilson in a letter written to Alexander Law.son, dated April 20th, 

 IHIO, in which he states: "As I entered the State of Tennessee, the 

 face of the country l)ecame liillv and even mountainous. After 



I 




1895.] NATrKAI. .SCIENCES OK PH II,AI)KI,PH I A. 481 



descending au immense declivity and coursing along the rich valley 

 of Man-»ker's Creek, where I again met with large flocks of paroquets, 

 I .stopped at a small tavern," etc. This was during his trip from 

 Lexington to Natchez! Again in his journal, dated April 25th of 

 the same year, is the following entry: — •* Breakfasted at Walton's, 

 thirteen miles from Nashville. This place is a tine, rich hollow, 

 watered by a charming, clear creek, that never fails. Went up to 

 .Madi.son's Lick, where I shot three paroquets and .«ome small birds." 



Mansker's Creek was north of Nashville, i>robal)ly in Robertson 

 County. Madison's Lick is in the Cumberland Valley, Davidson 

 County. These records were not published until 1828, when George 

 Ord issued a more complete edition of his "Sketch" of Wilson, 

 containing many letters not in the first edition and among them the 

 one to Lawson containing the above notes. 



In his Ornithology (1811) Wilson (Vol. Ill, p. 91) gives 

 Madi.son's Lick as the first place in Tennessee in which he saw 

 Parrots, and continues: "In pa.><sing on I next met with them on the 



banks and rich flats of the Tennessee River;" The latter 



region, however, is the debatable one of the old " Natchez Trace" 

 road which here crossed the Tennessee line in the southwest corner 

 of Wayne ( 'ounty and the northwestern corner of Lauderdale ('ouuty. 

 Alabama and thence south into Tishomingo County, Mississippi, 

 It is not unlikely that he saw paroquets in all of these counties; 

 certaiidy at least, in Alal)ama, a fact overlooked by Hasbrouck in 

 his [)aper in the Auk on this bird. 



From what is known of the breeding habits, of the Carolina Paro- 

 • juet in other localities there is no doubt that it was a summer resi- 

 dent in the river bottoms of west Tenne.-'see in Wilson's day. 



Mr. Miles communicates the following valuable note on the 

 i'aro(|uet in a recent letter: — " In the early 5()'s a Hock of Paroquets 

 came to our orchard [near Brownsville] and we chased them out and 

 killed tlieiii with sticks and a|iples; saw a tlock at Ashport [Lauder- 

 dale County] on tlu- Mississippi River 100 in ninnber in 1874. and 

 saw one killed alone, within five miles of this [Brownsville] in 1H7H 

 —the last I have ever heard of." 



i 




482 I'KuCKKDINCfS ol- lirK A( AUK.MY OK [189."). 



Onier COCCYGES. 

 Family CUCULIDJE. 

 Genus COCCYZUS VicilL.t. 



85. Coooyzus amerioanus I L. I. Y(.'ll()w-l>ill(<i Ciickon. 



86. Coooyzus erythrophthalmus I Wilb I. HIack-hilled ('\i(k(ni. 



Cuckoos were noted at all poiiit.< vif^ited, except the lop ol' Koaii 

 Mountain. From the clmiju'ter of their n<»tes, ( l)v which ;doiie llie 

 Black-hilled speciet; \va.< identified^ I judije there were live times a.« 

 many <>t' the former as of the latter. It is prohahle, however, that the 

 Black-hilled Cuckoo is much less noisy and hence less often observed. 

 Dr. Merriam records, "( '(nriizns. Heard several times;" at Athens. 

 Fox and Laiiirdon make no mention of either species. 



Family ALCEDINIDiE. 

 Genus CERYLE Hole. 



87. Ceryle alcyon i I..). Belted Kiiigfisiier. 



A common summer resident at all ('ollectini: stations except on 

 the tops of the hitrher mountains.. Not seen at Allardt or Sawyer's 

 Springs, but going up the escarpment, they were noted nearly to 

 the plateau. Langdon found them in the coves of Little River. I 

 did not see any above 4,000 feet on Roan Mountain. 



Order PICI. 



Family PICIDJE. 



Genus DEYOBATES Boie. 



88. Dryobates villo8US(L. ). Hairy Woodpecker. 



A common bir<l all across the State, from high mountain top to 

 the Mississippi bottoms. Typical i'l//t,sii.f is undoubtedly the high 

 mountain form of the Great Smoky Range. It is so identified by 

 Mr. Ridgway from T^angdon's Chilhowee specimens. 



89. Dryobates villosus auduboni ( Swain.s. ). Soutlieni Hairy Woodpecker. 

 Mr. Ridgway identified Fox's Roane County s])ecimens with this 



form. 



It is likely that the Hairy Woodpeckers at .Meni|»his and Sam- 

 burg will be found to be more typical of it. 



90. Dryobates pubescens (L. i. Downy Wo.xljKckcr. 



E(|ually abundant and with the same distribution over the entire 

 State as the preceding, except in the higher elevations, where it is 

 less numerous than rillt,.<iiK. 




I 



1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 483 



91. *Dryobates borealis (Vieill.). Red-cockaded Woodpecker. 



This bird was found breeding on the Cumberland plateau at 

 Allardt and on the route from Aliardt to Ruirby Road in Morgan 

 and Scott Counties. I did not see it elsewhere. Two specimens 

 were secured. At Allardt the nests were excavated at a height 

 of thirty or forty feet in living pine trees. The young were nearly 

 fledged at that date, June 8th. Fox calls it a rare bird at Rock- 

 wood, in spring, where he took a specimen April 22nd. 



Genus SPHYRAPICUS Baird. 



92. Sphyrapicus varius ( L. ). Yellow-bellied Sapsucker. 



A pair were seen along Doe River, Roan Mountain, at an eleva- 

 tion of about 4,000 feet. They acted as if they had a nest near by. 



Fox records them as " not very common" in s>pring in Roan 

 County. These were probably migrants. It is doubtful if any 

 breed in the Cumberland Mountains of Tennessee. Langdon did 

 not find them. 



Genus CEOPHLCEUS Cahanib. 



93. CeophlcBus pileatus (L. ). Pileated Woodpecker. 



Seen or heard at Samburg, Raleigh, Bellevue, Harriman, Al- 

 lardt and Greeneville. Reported by both Fox and Langdon. It 

 if< found on Koaii Mountain. Little Tennessee Valley; Merriam. 



Genus MELANERPES Swainson. 



94. Melanerpes erythrocephalus i L. ) Red-headed Woodpecker. 



Very abundant in west and middle Tennessee, but rare at higher 

 altituiU's' in the east. I recorded it at Samburg, Raleigh, Bellovue, 

 ('liattanooga, Harriman and Allardt. Fox records one spring 

 example; Langdon says it is "comnion about clearings in the foot- 

 hills" of the ChilliKwee Moiintnins. but not found above l,r)0O feet. 

 Abundant at .\tiieiis, .Merriam. 



95. 'Melanerpes carolinus ( L. ). Ked-lM-llicd Woodpecker. 



Very abundant at Sand»urg and Raleigh. Several §een at 

 Hellevue, (.'hatlanooga, Sawyer's Springs and Harriman. P'ox says 

 it was "rather common" in April, IHM;"), at Rockwood. 



Genus C0LAPTE8 Swaiii.son 



96. Colaptes auratus ( I., i. Flicker. 



Nowlii-re did I find tlii« l)ir«i as al>undant as in the Middle 

 States, but it was seen in all localities, from river bottom to moun- 

 33 




484 FROt'EKDlNdS <»K TIIK ACADEMY OF [1896. 



tain peak, l)eiiifr one of the tew lowliunl liinis which makes its 

 home at C'loiuihind. 



I am unable to im-liitle anmng the Woodpeckers of 'IVnuessee 

 the lvorv-l)ilU'(l. ('inninpliihui prinrijta/ix, o\\\u*i to absi'iice of any 

 records. Mr. Haslirouok fl.c. ) refers to it thns : "For Tennesssee 

 no records have heen found, altliont^h it wonUl seem hi<,ddy prohal)le 

 that the bird occurs in the lM)ttoni lauds bordering'' the Missi-ssippi 

 especially when we consider the records from Fulton County, Ken- 

 tucky . . and also those directly south in Louisiana and west 

 in Arkansas." 



Order MACROCHIRES. 

 Family CAPRIMULGID^. 

 Genus ANTROSTOMUS (ioiild. 

 97. Antrostomus carolinensis (<;m<>l.i. Clnick-will's widow. 



Heard several every night of my stay at Raleiirh. The Wliip- 

 poorwill was not heard there. Fox doubtfully refers a Goatsucker 

 seen near Kockwood to this species. Wilson first encounteied this 

 bird on the banks of the Cumberland near Nashville, in his jour- 

 ney from Lexington to Natchez. 



97. Antrostomus vociferus (Wils. ). Whipponrwill. 



I have records of this species from Samburg. Rellevue, Chatta- 

 nooga and Allardt. At the last mentioned place it was very nu- 

 merous. Other observers do not mention it. 



Genus CH0RDEILE8 Swainson. 



98. *Chordeile8 virginianus ((tmel.). Nighthawk. 



This bird was noted in the lowlands all across the State but uot 

 in the mountains. Fox, Langdon and Merriam record it from 

 their respective stations, Langdon having seen it on Scott Mountain. 



It is likely that subspecies henrt/i will be taken in we.st Tennessee, 

 as it has been in Illinois. 



Family MICROPODID^. 

 Genus CHJETURA .Stephens. 



99. Chaetura pelagica (L.). Chimney Swift. 



Found everywhere. Nesting in chimneys of (Houdland Hotel. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADEI-PHIA. 486 



Family TROCHILID^. 



Genus TROCHILTJS Linnseus. 



100. Trochilus colubris (L. ). Ruby-throated Humming-bird. 



Not seen ou top of Roan Mountain, but up to a high altitude, say 

 4,500 to 5,000 feet. Elsewhere in Tennessee it is a cosmopolite. 

 Langdon limits it to 3 ,000 feet iu the Chilhowee regions. 



Order PASSERES. 



Family TYRANNID^. 

 Genus TYEANNUS Cuvier. 



101. Tyrannus tyrannus (L.). King Bird. 



The only locality where this abundant ^iummer resident wa? not 

 .seen was among the higher reaches of Roan Mountain. Not seen, 

 but probably found, at Roan Mountain Station. LaiiL-'don did not 

 find it above the "coves." 



Genus MYIARCHUS Cabanis. 



102. Myiarchus crinitus (L.). Crested Fly-catcher. 



My notes say "everywhere" for this flycatcher. The only po.-sible 

 exception to this is the summit of Roan Mountain. It comes uj) 

 some distance into the fir belt, nevertheless. Strange to say, 

 Langdon does not mention it, nor is it recorded by Dr. iVTf-niain. It 

 is abundant in west and middle districts. 



Genus SAYORNIS Bonaparte. 



103. Sayornis phoebe ( Lath.). Phoebe. 



Not observed west of the valley of east Tennes.'jee. Recorded first 

 at (.'hattanooga, also at Sawyer's Springs, Harriman, Allaidt, John- 

 son City and Roan Mountain Station. At Rock wood; "common," 

 Fox. Athens, "not common ;" Merriam. Not given by Langdon. 

 I saw very few anywhere. 



Genus CONTOPUS ( abanis. 

 104 ContopuB borealis I SwainH. ). 01iv«i-8ided P'lyratfher. 



l*a~'^in<r down Rock Creek valley on the northwest side of Hoan 

 MoiMitain I ht*ani the weird, striking crv of this species and my 

 search was soon rewarded by secinL'^ tin- Itinl cMtching insects fnmi 

 the top of a lofty dead hemlock aloni; the roadside. The place was 

 u narrow cove and the altitude about 4,000 feet. About two milei* 




486 HROCEEU1NC4S i>K I'HK ACADKMY OK [1895. 



tVoin tliis ^»pot OH tilt' iTdss nmd to the Doe River valley I fouml 

 another ii) a similar enviroiinient. lliis flycatcher was fouiid in the 

 mountains^ of western North (,'aroliua by Mr. Brewster l»nt is not 

 jriven in previous Tennessee records. It is a rare summer resident 

 in this reijion. 



105. Contopus virens ^L. ). Wood IVwee. 



This tlycatclier was found all over the state, including the moun- 

 tains, up to the tir helt. 



Genus EMPIDONAX Cabanis. 



106. Empidonax acadicus Klnu'l.i. Acadian Flycatcher. 



The absence of all members of this genus from the lists of Fox 

 and Langdon is a surprise to me. as I found the Acadian everywhere 

 below ;-5.5()0 over the entire state. It was abundant in west and 

 middle Tennessee. Dr. Merriam lists it as common near Athens; 

 also giving it in his list of Little Tennessee birds. 



107. *Empidonax pusillus traillii (.\ud.). Traill's Flycatcher. 



A male, in full song, was shot near Bellevue. It was undoubt- 

 edlv a migrant. 



108. Empidonax minimus (Baird). Least Flyc<at<'-her. 



As a migrant, 1 saw this species at Samburg and Raleigh. It 

 breeds at Roan Mountain Station and thence up the Doe River 

 Vallev to near the limit of deciduous trees, say 4,500 feet. 



Family CORVID^. 

 Genus CYANOCITTA Strickland. 



109. Cyanocitta cristata 'L. ). I'.liie .Tay. 



Everv where present, but much more abundant, in the lowlands, 

 especiallv iii the Mississippi bottoms. I did not see it on the summit 

 of Roan Mountain but it probably reaches that elevation as a 

 straggler. Langdon sets the limit at 4,000 feet in the Chilhowee 

 Mountains. 



Genus CORVUS Linnajus. 

 110 Corvus corax sinuatus ( Wagl. ). Mexican Kavoi. 



Pairs noted around the top of Roan Mountain. Fox observed 

 them near Rockwood. Specimens of the Allegheny Mountain Raven 

 show that it is intermedite i)etween the Arctic and Mexican forms, 

 lookout Mountain, "common," Fox. 




1895.] nati;raj. sciences of Philadelphia. 487 



HI. Corvns americanus (Aud.). American Crow. 



The Crow wa.s not abundant but everywhere represented, except 

 in the evertrreeu mountain lielt. Langdon did not Hnd it above 

 3,000 feet, but it attains a much greater elevation. 



Family ICTERID^. 

 Genus DOLICHONYX Swaiiisou. 



112. Doliohonyx oryzivorus (L. ). Bobolink. 



Abuinhuit as a migrant at Samburg and Kaleigh. Also seen at 

 Bellevueand Chattanooga but I have no evidence that they breed in 

 those localities other tlian the late date of their ])resence there. 



Genus MOLOTHRUS Swaiuson. 



113. Molothrus ater i B<»(lfi. i. i'ow-bird. 



Noted at Sanil)urg and, questionalily at Kaleigh. I should say 

 thi.s species wa.-; rare in .summer in Tennessee. Fox says it is 

 not common in IJoane County. 



Genus AGELAIUS Vieillot. 



114. Agelaius phoeniceus tl. i. Ke<l-\vinged Blackbird. 



Breeding all over the state, but less abundant than in the Middle 

 States. I <li<l not observe it on Roan Mountain, nor does Langdon 

 record it. 



Genus STURNELLA \i.illot. 

 116. Sturnella magna ( L. ). Moadowhnk 



Di.stributiou same as with the preceding species, but more uni- 

 formly abundant. It was noted around Roan Mountain Station. 



Genus ICTERUS Bris.son 



116. Icterus spurius ' I., i. Onhard f)ri(.l»-. 



117. Icterus galbula I I-. I. lialtiinun- Orioli-. 



Both specie- abundant and with tlu- same distrilmtion all over the 

 state, except above .),.")()() to 4.000 feet in the Sniokv Mountains. 



()t the two, tlic Baltimore was the most abundant, more nuincroub. 

 indeed, than I ever saw it elsewhere in the I'nited Statea. 



Genus SCOLECOPHAOUS SwuinHon. 



118. Soolecophagus carolinus < Miill. i. Itiisty Blackbini. 



.Migrating in tlo(!ks with Cow-birds and Redwings at Samburg. 

 Rockwood, Fox. 




488 PKOt'KKDINdS OK rilK ACAUKMV OF [1896. 



Genus QUISCALUS Vieillot. 



119. Quisoalus quisoula (L.)- Purple <irackle. 



Admitted on evi<ic'iice of nine speeiniens pnuMired hv Dr. Fox in 

 Roane County and identified hy Mr. Hidirway, who states (footnote) 

 tliat tins appears to he tlie prevailing form in east Tennessee. 



I ohserved Grackle.s at Chattanooga, Harriman, Knoxville, 

 Greeneville and Johnson (Jity, hut none were secured. Found at 

 Athens, Merriam. 



120. *Quiscalus quisoula seneus (Baird). Bronzed Grackle. 



Foui- hreeding hirds shot at Samhurg are typical vnneus. In the 

 absence of contrary evidence, the Grackles noted at Raleigh and 

 Bellevue are likewise referable to this form. 



Reelfoot Lake, with its ruined, half-submerged forest of decaying 

 trees affords ideal building sites for a large colony of these birds. In 

 that locality they appear to invariably select a cavity (either 

 natural, or one made by woodpeckers) in dead trees standing in deep 

 water, in which to rear their young. Some of these are at a great 

 elevation, others were found in stubs only ten feet high. Two 

 specimens of this race were taken by Dr. Fox near Rockwood. 



Family FRINGILLID^. 

 Genus CARPODACUS Kaup. 



121. Carpodacus purpureus (Gmel.). Purple Finch. 



The only record known to me is that of Dr. Fox who secured 

 specimens in March in Roane County. I had expected to find it on 

 Roan .Mountiiiii Imt none were met with. 



Genus LOXIA Linnaeus. 



122. Loxia curvirostra minor ( Hiehm. ). .American Crossbill. 



The peculiar flight notes of this species were heard near the 

 summit of Roan Mountain, where it undoubtedly breeds. 



Genus ACANTHIS Reohstein. 



123. Acanthis linaria ( L. ). Hedpoll. 



Mr. Miles records, January 9, 1884, large n umbel's of Redpolls in 

 his yard ten miles north of Brownsville. Two or three were seen on 

 another occasion. 



Genus 8PINUS Koch. 



124. Spinus tristis (L. j. .\mericaii GoUltinch. 



My notes show thi.« bird was seen all along the route from Sam- 

 burg up to about 3,500 feet on Roan Mountain. 




1895.] .NATLHAr, SCIENCES OF PH IT.ADELPIIIA. 489 



Genus PASSER Brisson. 



125. Passer domesticus (L.). Kuropean House Sparrow. 

 Abounding in all larger towns and villages and their suburbs. 



Genus POOCETES Baird. 



126. Poocaetes gramineus iGmcl. ). Vesper Sparrow. 



Not seen west of Johnson City, where I foimd it breeding, but not 

 abundantly. Fox notes it in April in Roane County but I did not 

 find it breeding there. 



Genus AMMODBAMUS Swainson. 



127. Ammodramus sandwiohensis savanna (Wils.). Savanna Sparrow. 

 F'ox's record of this specie.s in Roane County during March is the 



oidy one known to me. 



128. Ammodramus savannarum passerinus fWils. ). Grasshopper Sparrow. 

 Found at Snniburg, Raleigh, Bellevue, Chattanooga, Knoxville, 



Greeneville ami Johnson City : t-ertuinly resident at the five latter 

 j)laces in suiunier. Not found l)y Langdon or myself in the Great 

 Smoky Range. 



129 Ammodramus henslowii ( .\ud.). Henslow's Sparrow. 



Two specimens (March and April), taken in Roane County by 

 Fox . 



Genus CHONDESTES Swainson. 



130. *Cliondeste8 grammaous ( Say. ). Lark Simrrnw. 



A flock, |)robably migrant, was ."een in a liebl near Sand)urg. 

 One of these was secured. A singing male gave me an unsuccessful 

 chase over the fields near Raleigh, and a pair, evidently mated, were 

 found near Bellevue, the male becoming a sacrifice to science. 



It appears to be rather rare in any part <»f the state. Other 

 observers do not list it. 



Genus ZONOTRICHIA Swainson. 



131. Zonotrichia leucophrys ( Forst. ). Wliite-crownetl Sparniw. 

 Numerous at .Sand)urg, Raleigh ami Bellevue. At the latter 



place il was .seen a.-« late as May 22nd. 



132. Zonotrichia albiooUis (<imel.). VVliitt^-throat^d Simimu 



Several seen at Hamburg and Bellevue. Koaiie ( 'ounly, March 

 and April; Fox. Not known to breed. 




490 HROCEEDINOS OK THK ACAUKMY OK [1896. 



Genus SPIZELLA Hona|>artc. 



133. Spizella socialis ( Wils. K (,;iiippiiiK ^^pairow. 



With the exception of the suiuniit of Kouu Mouutuiii. this bird 

 was always |)resent in my raiuhles tlirough Tennessee. Langdon 

 found it u{) to 4,000 feet in the mountain."^. 



134. Spizclla pusilla (Wils.). Fii-ld Sparrow. 



The reinarkb for aocialis equally Jipply to this species. 

 Genus JUNCO Wagler. 

 136. Junoo hyemali8(L. ). Slate-colored Junco. 



The birds referred to by Fox, the la.st of which were seen April 

 IBth, around Rockwood, have been identified with this migrant 

 northern form. 



136. *Junco hyemalis oarolinensis (Brewst.). Carolina .lunco. 

 Al)uiidant on Roan Mountain in the fir belt. One heard singing 



in the upper deciduous belt at about 4,500 feet. Eleven speci- 

 mens, including four half- Hedged young, were taken. 



Genus PEUC.EA Audubon. 



137. *Peuoaea aestivalis baohmani (Aud.). Bachman's Sparrow. 



Breeding numerously on the plateau in the parts of Fentress, 

 Scott and Morgan Counties traversed on the trip from Sunbright to 

 Allardt and returning to Rugby Road. Also noted near Sawyer's 

 Springs. Three specimens were taken at Allardt. Fox fouml it in 

 April in Roane ('ounty and on Lookout Mountain. 

 Genus MELOSPIZA Baird. 



138. Melospiza fasciata (<imel.). Song Sparrow. 



The absence of this homelike bird from the woodlands and door- 

 yards of West aud Middle Tennessee was not only a source of sur- 

 prise, but of much regret, to me. Never before had I traveled so long 

 out of sight and hearing of some representative of the Song Sparrow 

 in my North American wanderings. 



A few were seen at Johnson City. They became numerous at 

 Roan Mountain Station and were seen thence along the Doe River 

 to an elevation of 8,500 feet. As a migrant, Fox notes them as 

 late as April 17th in Roane County, after which date they disap- 

 peared . 



139. Melospiza georgiana ' Lath.^ Swamp Sparrow. 



This bird escaped me, but it almost sure to be found breeding 




1895.] NATURAJ. SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 491 



aloug the foothills of the Great Smoky Range. It is included here 

 on the authority of Dr. F'ox, who found it abundant in Roane 

 County (luring Aj)ril. That it breeds there is doui>tful. 



140. *Melospiza lincolni i .\ud. i. Lincoln's Finch. 



This i)ird was migrating during my stay in West Tennessee. 

 Several were seen near Samburg and Raleigh. It was also observed 

 at Bellevue. A male shot at Raleigh was very fat. 



Genus PASSERELLA Swainsou. 



141. Passerella iliaoa ( Merr.). Fox Sparrow. 



Not seen. Taken in spring migration in Roane County. : Fox. 

 Genus PIPILO Vieillot. 



142. Pipilo erythrophthalmns (L. ). Towhee. 



Not seen in West Tennessee; not common in the niiildle districts. 

 Records at Bellevue. Chattanooga, Harriman, Allardt, Knnxville, 

 Johnson City and Roan Mountain Station. Rare at latter station, 

 which is its highest limit in the mountains. Taken at Athens; com- 

 mon; Merriam; and at 2,000 feet in Chilhowee Mountains, Lang- 

 don. 



Genufi CARDINALIS Hnnapartt. 



143. Cardinalis cardinalis (L. I. Curdinal. 



Very abundant everywhere, up to nearly 4,000 feet in the moun- 

 tains. 



Genus HABIA Reichenhach. 



144. Habia ludoviciana (L. ). Ko.se-l)reaste(l (Jroslieak. 



Migrating at Samburg, Raleigh and Bellevue. Seen at Chatta- 

 nooga and Sawver's Springs. Breeds at John.^on Citv and thence up 

 to the fir belt of Roan Mountain, 4,^00 feet. 



It mav be a rare breeder in the Cumberland .Mduiitains. but 1 

 have no |)roof of it. 



145. Passerina cyanea i L i. IndiKo Btintiiie. 



Very abundant over my entire route, and one of the few low- 

 land birds that breed at the summit of Roan Mountain. 



146. *8pi2a americana ((inu'l. ). Dickci.KwI. 



.\biiiidanl in all cultivated uplands, from the Missi.'tsippi River to 

 the western escarpment of the Cumberland Plateau. Sparsely strag- 

 gling along the Tennessee Valley to Chattanooga, where one was 

 beard >*inging. Not seen at Knoxville. Four specimens taken. 




492 PROCEEDINOS OF TMR Af'ADKMY OK [1895. 



Family TANAGRID^. 

 Genus PIRANGA Vieillot. 



147. Piranga erythromelas ( Vieill.). Scarlet Tanager. 



Over the entire State, and in the mountains up to 4,000 feet. 

 More abundant in E^st Tennessee. 



148. *Piranga rubra ( L. ). Sunmier Tanager. 



Noted at all visited localites, up to 2.500 feet. More abundant 

 in west and middle districts. 



Family HIRUNDINID^. 

 Genus PROGNE Boie. 



149. Progne subis (L.). Purple Martin. 



Numerous everywhere except on the mountains. Not seen at 

 Sawyer'.< Springs, but at AUardt I saw some. Not seen at Roan 

 Mountain Station. 



Genus PETROCHELIDON Cabanis. 



150. Petrochelidon lunifrons l-Suy). ('liff Swallow. 



Noted at Raleigh, Bellevue, Harriraau and Johnson City. Not 

 elsewhere recorded nor by other observers. 



Genus CHELIDON Forster. 

 161. Chelidon erythrogaster (Bodd. ). Barn Swallow. 



No* al)undaut. Seen at Raleigh, Bellevue, Chattanooga, Knox- 

 ville, Greeueville and J(jhnson City. Athens; Merriam. Rock- 

 wood; Fox. 



Genus TACHYCINETA Cabanis. 



152. Taohyoineta bicolor i VumU. ). White-bellied Swallow. 



Rarely seen in any numbers, but with much the same appar- 

 ent distribution as the preceding species. 



Genus CLIVICOLA Forster. 



153. Clivioola riparia ^L. ). Bank Swallow. 



Breeds abundantly along the Missipsipjji blufts. Noted all across 

 the State, but at times, perhaps, confounded with the next species. 



Genus 8TELGID0PTERYX Haird. 



154. Stelgidopteryx serripennis (Aud.j. Rough-winged Swallow. 

 From Saraburg to Johnson City. Abundant everywhere. 



I 




1895.] NATUKAI, SCIENCKS OK PH II.A DKLPH I A. 498 



Family AMPELID^. 

 Genus AMPELIS I.inna-us. 

 156. Apeiis cedrorum ( Vieill. ). f "edar WaxwinR. 



Quite universal in its Stiite distribution. I did not find it on the 

 summit, but far up Koan Mountain. Langdon took a young one as 

 high as 3.000 feet. 



Family LANID^. 

 Genus LANITJS Linnaus. 



156. Lanius ludovicianus (L. ). lLo>?gerhead .Shrike. 



(Observed at iSamburg and Raleigh, and breeding between the 



latter phice and Memphis. Roane County, ^farch IHth and 20th; 



Fox. 



PamQy VIREONID^E. 



Genus VIREO Vi.ill,,t. 



157. Vireo olivaoeus (L. ). Red-eyed Vireo. 



Abounding in all localities visited, up to the fir-belt of Roan 

 Mountain. 



158. Vireo gilvus ( Vieill. ). Warbling Vireo. 



Several noted at all stops between Samburg and .Johnson ('itv. 

 inclusive. No other observer records them from Tennessee. 



159. Vireo flavifrons ( Vieill. ). Yellow-throated Vireo. 



Same distribution as last. Pine Mountain at 1.500 feet: Langdon. 

 Abundant. 



160. Vireo solitarius i Wils. ). Blue-headed Vireo. 



Taken by Fox in Roane County (April 15th and 17th), during 

 migration. 



161. Vireo solitarius alticola I Hrewst. ). Mountain Solitary Vireo. 



A few heard on Roan Mountain, from just below fir belt down to 

 •3,000 feet. Owing to their preference for the highest tre«' t(jps 1 

 was unable to .shoot any specimens with my cane-gun. 



Specimens taken by Langdon on Pine and I)»'feal -Miiuntains 

 were pronounced to be ty|)ical «if this ra<-e bv Mr. iJrewster. 

 Iji-moyne took specimens in Hlount and Monroe Counties, which he 

 thinks referable to both forms. As he gives no date for the one 

 from Monroe County, whicli he calls nolitdriiiK, um- niav infer that it 

 wa.s oidv a migrant. 



162 Vireo noveboraoenslB (<rni<l. i. Wiiite-eyed Vireo. 



Seen at all {x^iutti between Roau MouDtaio Station and Samburg, 




4iM PR<K;KEDIN«S OK TIIK ACADKMV OK [1895 



inclusivf. An iiliimdiint species^ everywhere. Chilhowee Moiiii- 

 tuiiis: liiingduu. 



Family MNIOTILTID^. 

 Genus MNIOTILTA Vieillot. 



163. Mniotilta varia (\,.). lilack and White Warblfr. 



An iiltundant snninu-r rt-ni^lent, witli the simu' distrihntiou a.s the 

 White-eyed N'ireo, hut ranging; higher on Koan Mountain, viz., up 

 to 3,500 feet. Chilhowee Mountains, 8,000 feet, Langdou. 



Genus PROTONOTARIA Baird. 



164. *Protonotaria oitrea (Bodd.). IMotlioiiotary Warbler. 



Al)i)unding iu the Mississippi Bottoms and along the nearer tribu- 

 taries. Probably found nearly across west Tennessee. Breeding at 

 Saiul)urg. Menipliis and FJaleigh. Five specimens preserved and a 

 set of eggs. 



Genus HELINAIA Audubon. 



165. •Helinaia swainsonii ( Aud.). Swainson's Warbler. 



Several heard and ti few seen in the cane bottoms of Wolf River 

 near Raleigh, where it was breeding. Two males, after the most 

 persistent and tiresome stalking, were brought down. From the 

 nature of the swamps and bayous of the Tennessee River it may 

 be safely predicted that this bird will be found in nearly every 

 couuty between its western valley and the Mississippi. 



Genus HELMITHERTJS Rafinesque. 

 .166. Helmitherus vermivorus ((Jniel.). Worm-eating Warbler. 



Migrants noted at Saniburg and Raleigh. Did not see it in the 

 ea.«t, but Langdon notes it in Blount County up to 4,000 feet, 

 breeding iu the mountains. Fox's records for Roane County were 

 made during April. 



Genus HELMINTHOPHILA Ridgway. 



167. Helminthophila pinus (L. ). Filue-winged Warbler. 



I saw this bird at Raleigh and thence eastward across tlie State 

 to, and including, Knoxville. It was not abundant anywhere. 



168. Helminthophila chrysoptera (L.). Golden- winged Warbler. 

 Breeding at Sawyer's Springs, Harriman and Allardt. Also 



noted at Knoxville. Not common. Monroe, Blount, Cooke and 

 Roane Counties; Lemoyue. 




1895.] NATl'KAI, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 495 



169. Helniinthophila ruficapilla (Wils. ). Xusb villi- Warbk-r. 

 Alexander Wilson secured the types of this species near Nash- 

 ville. It \va- miirrating at Samburg and Raleigh during my stay. 



170. Helminthophila peregrina (Wils.). Temn's.-<ee Warhlt-r. 



Migrating through Sainlnirg, Raleigh and Bcllevue. Wilson's 

 type.«; of this bird came from the lianks of tlie Cumherland River, 

 probably not far from Na.-^hville. 



Genus COMPSOTHLYPIS Cal.aiiiB. 



171. Compsothlypis americana (L.). Parula Warbler. 



Breeding abundantly at every I'ocality except above 4.000 feet in 

 the mountain.-. 



Genus DENDROICA Gray. 



172. Seudroica aestiva ((iiiiel.). Yellow Warbler. 



Not seen in \\e>t Tennessee; a few seen at Nashville. Numerous 

 in ca.-'t Tennessee up the mountains, to al»out 8,500 feet. On the 

 plateau at Allardt. 



173. Dendroica carulescens ((ituel.). Black-tlin>at<(l Hhif Warhh-r. 



( 'ommoii from 8,500 to 4,500 feet on Boaii .Mountain. Head of 

 Little River, 4,000 feet, Langdon. Roane County, 4,800 tvetfh: 

 .^^av IHth, Ivemovne. 



174. Dendroica coronata ( 1,.;. Myrilc Warbler. 



Fo.x savs thi.« bird was common near the Tennessee River until 

 the last of April. 



175. *Dendroica maculosa ((linel. i. .Magnolia Warbler. 



Seen migratiiiL' at Samburg and Raleigh, where one specimen 

 was shot. 



176. Dendroica cserulea ( Wils. I. < eriilean Warblir 



l)rerding at ."Hamburg, Raleigh and Bellevue. Not cerlainlv 

 iflcntifu'd el.'-ewheie. Three specimens taken at Raleigh. Langdon 

 found them "commoti" in spruce forests at the head of Little River. 

 4,000 feet. 



177. Dendroioa pensylvanica ( L. ). (liicHtniit-.sidi'ti Warbli-r. 



Breeding on Koan Mountain. :{. 500 to 4,000 feet. From 2.000 

 to 2.500 feet •' in oak woods ;"' I.,angilon. 



178. Dendroioa striata i Korxt) Uiark-|M,|| Wurbl<i 



All abundant migrant at Sandiurt' and Raleigh an<l a few -vvu al 

 liellevue. 




496 »-|<0(KKI>IN<{S OK THK ACAMK.MY oK [189/). 



179. Dendroica blaokburnise ((iinel.). Bliickburiiian Warbler. 



Miijniiit Ht Siiiiilnirjr. Kalei^li and liellevue. Breeding on Koan 

 Moiintuin. KdcUwuikI in April, Fox. Lan^don tbund it the '"most 

 iiliundanl s|)t'<.'ies« of its family" l)et\veen 2,000 to 4,000 \Wl in the 

 Ciiiliiowee Mountains. One specimen at Kaleitrli- Waldens 

 Hidge, Hoane County, 4,000 feet; I)reedint:, Lemoync. 



180. *Dendioica dominica albilora ( Maird.) Sycaimirt- Warbkr. 



Hecords for Hellevue. Harriman, AUardt. Knoxville, Greeneville 

 and Johnson City. Two specimens taken. Breeding at all points 

 noted. Roane County; Fox. Athens; Merriani. 



181. Dendroica virens IGmel.). Black-throated (ireen Warbler. 



Found all across the State; Init only as a migrant west of the 

 ('utnl)erland Plateau. Breeding at Sawyer's Springs, Harriman, 

 Allardt, Knoxville. Johnson City, and thence u|) Roan Moun- 

 tain to 3,000 feet or more. Spruce woods, 4,000 feet; Langdon. 

 I>)okout Mountain, Fox. 



182. Dendroica vigorosii (And.). Pine Warbler. 



Li.sted at Raleigh, Bellevue and Allardt. Fox found them in 

 full song March 2''^th, when they were "common" at Rockwood. 

 Pine Mountain, 1,500 feet, " one specimen only," Langdon. I did 

 not notice them on Roan Mountain. Not abundant anywhere. 



183. Dendroica discolor (Vieill.). Prairie Warbler. 



Numerous in scrub openings at all points visited between Bellevue 

 and Knoxville, inclusive. Two specimens taken. Rockwood. 

 "common" in Ay)ril ; Fox. Blount County; Lemoyne. 

 Genus SEIURTJS Swainsoii. 



184. Seiurus aurocapillus (L.i. Oven Mird. 



I did not find the Oveu-bird until 1 reached Chattanooga. After 

 that it was always present, reaching all the way up to the edge of 

 the fir belt on Roan Mountain. Langdon confines it to altitudes 

 ranging from 1,000 to 2,000 feet. Fox found them in Roan 

 County as early as April 15th. 

 186. *Seiuru8 motacilla (Vieill.). Loui.siaua Water Thrush. 



This bird is a cosmopolite summer resident in Tennessee. It is as 

 numerous in one locality as another, and reaches some distance 

 along the Doe River above Roan Mountain Station. It is barely 

 possible that the birds <»l».served in that locality were S. norilor- 

 iK-eimia. Lanii:don fails to record anv, but Fox found them conunon. 




1895.] NATtRAI, SC'IKNCKS OK PHILA I (F.I.PHT A . -^97 



Genus GEOTHLYPIS C«bauis. 



186. *Geothlypis formosa iWils.). Kentucky Warbler. 



AhouiidinLr all across the State, from the ^lississippi bhitl to the 

 foothills of the (ireat Smoky Moimtains. Not seen east of Johnson 

 City hut immerous all over the ("iiml)erhui(l Plateau. Langdon 

 <liil not see it, nor ditl Fox in iJSiSo, thoujrh he records it '* not 

 conniioir' in 1S,S4. Nesting in Blounl County; June, 1)^81, and 

 seen in Monroe (oiinty; Lemoyne. 



187. Geothlypis Philadelphia (Wils. ). .Mouruintt Warbler. 



Migrating at Saml)urg. Raleigh aTid Bellevue. Heard one sing- 

 ing at latter place. 



188. Geothlypis trichas i J-. ). Maryland Yellow Thrciat. 



Melow an altitude of '^000 feet this familiar warbler abounds 

 throughout the State. Kidgway shows that the Mississippi Valley 

 birds are ititcrnietliate. Those from the Memphis bottoms may be 

 found to l)e (doser to ocridenfalls than to our eastern bird. 



Genus ICTEEIA Vieillot. 



189. Icteria virens ( ]...). Yellow-breasted Chat. 



An abundant summer resident at all points along route as far 

 ea.st as John.-on City. Langdon took one at the " base of Mount 

 Nebo." 



Genus SYLVANIA Nnttall. 



190. *Sylvania mitrata ((Tniel.). Hooded Warbler. 



This is the most thoroughly representative and evenly distributed 

 sunniier warbler of Tennessee: as much at home among the cane 

 brakes and Itayous of the Mississippi as in the «lark, cool ravines of 

 the (ireat Smoky Mountains. It ranges up to the fir belt on Hoan 

 Mountain: "4.000 feet," Langdon. Great Smoky Mountain and 

 Monroe (niintv. 'J,.")(>0 to 4,5000 feet; I./emoyne. 



191. Sylvania pusilla I Wil- /. Wilson '.s Warbler. 



.Miirraliiig at Kaleigh and Hellevue. One specimen collected at 

 latter place. 



192. Sylvania canadensis (L.). Canadian Warbler. 



Migrant at Samburg and lialeigh. Breeding on Hoan .Mountain, 

 :{. 000 to 4,000 feet. Blount County, 2,000 feet: Langdon. Mon- 

 roe Countv, 2,500 to 4,000 feet: Ivemovne. 




498 CHLCKKIUNUS 01- IIIK A(AI>i:M\ <IK [ 1 HOT). 



Genus SETOPHAGA Swains. n 



193. Setophaga ruticilla (I, i. Amcriiaii Kcdstait. 



ill favorable lociilitii'"- throughout the entire route iVorn SiiiiiWur^^ 

 to Johnson City iiiid Hoiiii Mountain Station. That its hrccdn at 

 SanihurL' and KaU'iirh is not yet proven. Lanjrdon found it up to 

 2.500 feet. 



Family MOTACILLID^. 



194. Anthus pennsilvanicus (l^atli.). .Vmericaii Pipit. 



Recorded in spring ( Mareh / by Fox, who found it (common in 

 meadows during the hist two weeks of that month. I thought 1 

 heard a flock passing over Hamburg. 



Family TROGLODYTIDJE. 



Genus MIMUS Hoii-. 



195. Mimus polyglottos ( I..). .MmkiiiK Bird. 



Katlier rare at Samburg, Raleigh, and Bellevue. Reported from 

 Chattanooga. A farmer from Harriman stated they were occasion- 

 ally heard there. Fox saw one Jiear Rockwood April 6, 1885. I 

 could get no information of them on the ('umberland table land. It 

 is a favorite and common cagebird all over Tennessee and this |)er- 

 haps, accounts for its rarity in a wild state at the present day. 



Genus GAJ<EOSCOPTES Cabani.s. 



196. Galeoscoptes carolinensis (I^.). (;atl)iid. 



The only "thrush" which I found in every place on the entire 

 route. A pair were breeding near a little si)riug at the summit of 

 Roan Mountain and their mewing could often be heard from the 

 ixjrch of Cloudland hotel. Langdon limit.^ their wanderings in the 

 Chilhowee range to 2,000 feet. 



Genus HARPORHYNCHUS Cabaiiis. 



197. HarporhynohuB rufus (L. ). Brown Thrasher. 



The Thrasher is not far behind the Cat Bird in its general distri- 

 bution over the State, but it is less numerous and T did not see any 

 above 3,000 feet on Roan Mountain. 



Genus THRYOTHORUS \iiillot. 



198. Thryothorus ludovicianus (Latli.). Carolina W re ii. 



Very abundant everywhere except in the loftier reaches of the 

 niountain.s above 8,500 to 4,000 feet. 




1895.] NATURAL. SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 499 



199. Thryothorus bewiokii ( Aud.). Bewick's Wren. 



Rather local, but found in every county visited. A far more 

 entertaining singer and every way more of a gei. -' than the House 

 Wren, which it replaces in Tennessee. 



I heard the soug of this bird in a " deadening " 4,000 feet up the 

 side of Roan Mountain. 



Genus TROGLODYTES Vieillot. 



200. Troglodytes hiemalis (Vieill.). Winter Wren. 



A few heard in the fir belt of Roan Mountain; but none below it. 

 It is rare even there. Lang<Jou missed it altogether. Fox notes it 

 in the Tennessee valley as late as April 13th. It is quite possible 

 that the Roan Mountain birds will be found to represent a distinct 

 race, more nearly approaching pacificvs than hiemalis. No speci- 

 mens have yet been taken in these regions. 



Family CERTHIID^. 

 Genus CEETHIA Linnttus. 



201. Certhia familiaris americana (Bonap.). Brown Creeper. 



A few were breeding on the summit of Roan Mountain. Seen in 

 migration by Fox, in Roane County. Smoky Mountains in summer, 

 in the valleys in winter; Lemoyne. 



Family PARID-E. 

 Genus SITTA Linn^eas. 



202. Sitta carolinensis (I.Ath.). White-breasted Nuthatch. 



Sparingly di.«tributed over the State. None seen on Roan Moun- 

 tain al)ove the deciduous timber. 



203. Sitta canadensis (L.). Red-hreastod Nuthatch. 



One specimen was taken in the fir belt of Roan Mountain, to 

 which the birds seemed to be confined, one being heard near the 

 hotel at Cloudland. lAHtkout Mountain, March 29th, Fox. 



Genus PARTIS Linnx-UM. 



204. Parus bicolor ( L. i. Tiiftoil '["itinousr. 



lOvcrywherr al)iind:iiit. Ilniiging as high as 4,000 feet on Roan 

 Moiintiiin. 



205. Parus atrioapillus ( L.) Chickudee. 



Ni» Chickadees were seen in the bal.xani belt of Koan Mountain. 

 Langdon found no apecitnens of this form among the mountain tit- 

 34 




600 PROCEEDINGS OF THK ACADEMY OF [1895. 



mice of Blount Couuty. Lemoyne records specimens from Blount 

 County and Great Smoky Mountain and agrees with Brewster as to 

 the difference in song, etc., between s))ecinieu8 above and below 4,000 

 feet on the.«e mountains. 



206. Parus atrioapillus oarolinenBis (And. I. Caroliim L'hickailee. 

 Specimens from Sawyer's Springs and Raleigh are referable to 



the southern form. I found Chickadees abundant all over the 

 Tennes.-*ee lowlands and up Roan Mountain to the evergreen 

 belt. I fail to appreciate the specific distinctions accorded to the 

 southern as contrasted with the northern Chickadee, living as I (io in 

 a region where apparent intermediates of the two are found through- 

 out the year. Lemoyne records carol hi enxis from the valleys up to 

 4,000 feet in the Smoky Mountains of Monroe, Blount and 

 Sevier Counties. 



Genus EEGULUS Cuvier. 



207. Begulus satrapa (Licht.). (iolden-crowned Kinglet. 



The onlv record known to me is that of Fox, who found them 

 in early spring in Roane County. It is rather surprising that 

 neither Langdon nor myself ob.served them in the Smoky Moun- 

 tains, for Brewster found them al)undant in the Black Moun- 

 tains of North Carolina. 



208. Regulus calendula (L.). Ruby-crowned Kinglet. 



Fox lists this bird as a migrant in Roane County. It was mi- 

 grating through Samburg during my stay. 



Genus POLIOPTILA Sclater. 



209. Polioptila caerulea (L. ). Blue-gray Gnatcatcher. 



Breeds all across the State and in the mountains, up to 3,500 feet. 



Family TURDID^. 

 Genus TTIEDUS Linnspus. 



210. Turdus mustelinus ((imel.). Wood Thrush. 



Noted at Samburg, Raleigh, Bellevue, Chattanooga, Harriman, 

 Knoxville and Johnson City. Not on the Cumberland table land. 

 Specimens taken by Langdon in Blount County, at 2,000 and 4,000 

 feet. 



211. Tnrdus fusoesoens (.St«|)li.). Wilsou's Thrush. 



Numerous in migrations at Samburg, Raleigh and Bellevue. 

 Breeding at Chattanooga C! ) and on Roan Mountain, where it waa 




1895.] NATUBAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 601 



abundant from 3,000 to 5,000 feet. I watched a pair building in 

 a maple on a large horizontal branch nearly forty feet from the 

 ground: an unusual position for the nest of this bird. 



212. Tardus ustulatus swainsonii (Cab.). Olive-backed Thrush. 



Migrant at Samburg, Raleigh and Bellevue. Fox saw one April 

 26tli. 1H85, in Roane County. 



213. Turdus aonalaschkae pallasii (Cab.). Hermit Thrush. 



Seen at Samburg. Fox found it an abundant migrant in Roane 

 County. 



GenuB MERITLA Leach. 



214. Merula migratoria iL.). .\inerican Robin. 



A rare bird in west and middle Tennessee. None seen in the 

 Central Ba.^in. Not abundant in east Tennessee, where it is found 

 from the western rim of the Cumberland Mountains to the top of 

 the Great Smoky range. It was breeding and singing in the bal- 

 sams near Cloudland Hotel. I^angdon did not find it in the 

 Chilhowee Range. 



Genus SIALIA Swainson. 



215. Sialia sialia (L. ). Bluebird. 



In many parts of west and middle Tennessee tlie Bluebird was 

 fre<|uently seer). I have records of it from every place visited up 

 to 4, 000 feet on Roan Mountain. Fox found them very common 

 in early spring. Langdon notes a few " about deadenings in the 

 coves" of Blount County. 




602 PROCEKDINGS OF THE ACADEOyiY OF [1895. 



LIST or BIRDS COLLECTED IN NORTH GREENLAND BY THE PEARY 



EXPEDITION OF 1891-2 AND THE RELIEF 



EXPEDITION OF 1892. 



BY WITHER STONE. 



In the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia for 1892, ]). 145, I published an annotated list of the birds 

 collected by the West Greenland Expedition which accompanied 

 Lieut. R. E. Peary to Whale Sound in 1891. 



Below will be found lists of the species obtained by the Peary 

 party during their sojourn in North Greenland from July, 1891, to 

 August, 1892, and also of those collected by the Relief Expedition 

 of 1892. 



The former collection was made almost entirely by Mr. Langdon 

 Gibson in the vicinity of the Peary winter quarters' and the latter 

 by Mr. Charles E. Hite at about the same points visited by the 

 Expedition of 1891. All the .specimens, numbering 122, are in the 

 collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.^ 



The second Peary Expedition and the Relief Expedition of 1894, 

 so far as I am aware, made no collection of birds. 



Gibson Collection. 



1. Urinator lumme (Gunn.). Red-throated Loon. 

 One set of eggs collected on Whale Sound. 



2. Cepphus MANDTii (Licht.). Mandt's Guillemot. 



3. Alle alle (Linn.). Little Auk. 

 A number of eggs were in the collection. 



4. Stercorarius parasiticus* (Linn.). Parasitic Jaeger. 

 Specimens obtained at Red-cliff House, the headquarters of the 



Expedition, and in Tuctoo Valley, representing both the dark and 

 light phases of plumage. 



1 SeeProc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Pliila.. 1892, p. 342. 



' This paper has been delayed in the hope of obtainiag field notes from some 

 of the members of the expedition, but failing in this I have thought best to pub- 

 lish it as it is. 



I 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 503 



5. Stercorarius longicaudus Vieill. Long-tailed Jaeger. 

 Obtained in Tuctoo Valley. 



6. Gavia ALBA (Gunn. ). Ivory Gull. 



One obtained on McCormick Bay, July 17, 1892. 



7. RisSA TRIDACTYLA (Linn.). Kittiwake. 

 One specimen in the collection. 



8. Larus GLAUCU8 Briinn. Glaucous Gull. 

 One taken at McCormick Bay, July 17, 1892. 



9. Clangula HYEMALis (Liun. ). Old-squaw. 



Males and females in perfect breeding plumage obtained in Tuctoo 

 and Glacier Valleys, June 16-21, 1892. 



10. SoMATEKiA MOLLissiMA BOREALis Brehm. Greenland Eider. 

 One set of eggs collected June 30, on Whale Sound and several 



birds secured. 



11. SoMATERiA .SPECTABILI9 (Linn. ;. King Eider. 



Found breeding in Tuctoo Valley, June 9, 1892, and birds were 

 obtained in the same locality as late as July 24. 



12. Ciii:n' hyperbokeus nivalis (Forst. j Greater Snow Goose. 

 One adult female in worn plumage and one young gosling entirely 



in down were secured on July 10, 1892, in Glacier Valley. So far 

 as I am aware this capture furnishes the first information that we 

 have regarding the breeding ground of this bird. 



13. Tringa cANUTi's Linn. Knot. 



A series of specimens ol the Knot were obtained in Tuctoo Valley, 

 June 22 to July 22, 1892, and Aug. 23, 1891. Most of these are in 

 breeding plumage an<l have lost entirely the gray borders to the 

 feathers of the back. 



One young bird was obtained which is still in the down but has 

 the wings about half grown and the regular feathers appearing on 

 the brea.st and back. 



14. Caliijrls arenaria (Linn.). Sanderling. 



One specimen was secured in Glacier Valley, June 14, in full 

 breeding dress. 



15. Arenaria in'terpres (Linn.). Turnstone. 



Two specimens were taken July 21 and 26, 1H92, in Tuctoo 

 Valley. 



16. Lagopus rupestrih keinhardti (Brehm). Reinhardt'i 

 Ptarmigan. 




604 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OK [1895. 



One specimen taken in Inglefield Gulf, April 21, 1892, was still 

 in the pure white plumage. 



17. Falco isLANDi s Briiun. White Gyr falcon. 

 One obtained on McCorniick Bay. 



18. CoRVUs coRAX PRINCIPALIS Ridgw. Northern Raven. 

 One specimen without data. 



19. Plectropiienax nivalis (Linn.). Snow Bunting. 

 Several nests taken in Tuctoo Valley, June 19 and 21, each con- 

 taining five eggs, and one, June 21, containing eeven. 



Collection of the Relief Expedition. 



1. Fratercula arctica (Linn.). PuflBn. 

 Two puffins were secured at Godhavn, which I refer to this form. 

 The bills measure: 



2. Cepphus mandtii (Licht.). Mandt's Guillemot. 



All the specimens obtained at Nattik and in McCormick Bay 

 were of this species. None of C. grylle being found. 



3. Uria lomvia (Linn.). Briinnich's Murre. 



Specimens secured in McCormick Bay, July 22 and August 23. 



4. Alle alle (Linn. ). Little Auk. 



A number secured at Cape York, July 22. 



5. Stercorarius parasiticus (Linn.). Parasitic Jaeger. 

 Two Jaegers, the only ones obtained by the Relief Expedition 



(McCormick Bay, Aug. 4, and Port Robinson Aug. 1), were clearly 

 referable to this species while curiously enough all but one of a con- 

 siderable series obtained by the West Greenland Expedition were &. 

 longicaudus. 



6. RissA tridactyla (Linn.) Kittiwake. 



One taken at Cape York, July 22, and another at Disko, Aug. 

 30, The latter specimen is remarkably dark in color, the whole 

 lower surface being suffused with pearl gray. 



7. Larus glaucus Briinn. Glaucous Gull. 



A number of specimens collected at Duck Island, Littleton Island, 

 Cape York and Itiblu. 



8. Larus marinus Linn. Black-backed Gull. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 505 



One immature specimen secured Sep. 3, 1892, at Gothaub. 



9. Sterna paradis.«:a Briinn. Arctic Tern. 

 Several secured in McCormick Bay, August 1-4. 



10. Somatkria mollissima borealis Brehm. Greenland 

 Eider. 



A large series of females is in the collection from Duck Island. 



11. Tringa maritima Briinn. Purple Sandpiper. 

 Two secured at Disko, July 16. 



12. iEoiALiTis hiaticula (Linn. ). Ring Plover. 

 One from McCormick Bay, Aug. 4. 



13. Lagopus RUPE8TRI8 REiNHARDTi (Brehm). Reinhardt's 

 Ptarmigan. 



Obtained at Disko, July 16. 



14. Falco I8LANDD8 Briinn. White Gyr falcon. 

 Two specimens obtained from natives. 



15. Falco rusticolus Linn. Gray Gyr falcon. 



One specimen obtained from natives. The one secured by the 

 West Greenland Expedition in 1891 was accidentally referred to F. 

 '• {/yf^'^^'* '" "'y paper. 



16. CoRVUS corax principalis Ridgw. Northern Raven. 

 A fine specimen shot on McCormick Bay, Aug. 4. 



17. PLKCrHOPIIENAX NIVALIS (lAliQ.). SuOW Buutiug. 



A numljer collected at Disko, July 16. 



18. Cal( ARMS LAProNicrs rLinn.j. Lapland I^ngspur. 

 Several specimens taken with the above. 



19. Saxicola (ENANTHE (Linn. ). Wheatear. 

 One taken at Disko, July 16. 




506 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1896- 



ARCH^OLOGICAL WORK IN OHIO. 



By Gekaki) Fowkk. 



Excavation of a Mound in Pikk County, Ouio.' 



On the farm of W. M. Volgamore, three and one half miles south 

 of Piketon, is the largest mound in the Scioto Valley between Chilli- 

 cothe and the Ohio River except one four miles south of the "High 

 Banks" in Ross County. It stands on the third of four terraces 

 bordering the river here, the first being regularly and the second 

 occasionally overflowed. A mile below are two earthen enclosures, 

 one square the other circular, each containing between fifteen and 

 twenty acres and connected by parallel walls. Many other remains 

 exist in the county, notably the much-mentioned "Graded Way," 

 which, however, is mostly a natural formation. 



The mound has an elliptical base 130 x 110 feet, the longer axis 

 north and south, and its altitude while intact was fully 18 feet. In 

 1894 the owner scraped off the upper portion, leaving it a truncated 

 cone whose top was about seven feet above the surrounding level. 

 He also scraped a narrow trench across the middle to within three 

 feet of the bottom. At this depth he reports finding two skeletons 

 with some shell beads and two copper bracelets. He went no farther 

 but replaced such bones as he saw and filled the trench from the side. 

 The outline of the ntc/und being destroyed by this work, it was difticult 

 to judge where the axes would intersect; a point was chosen (it may 

 have been several feet out of the way) as nearly over the middle of 

 the base as could be determined, and from this as a center a circle 

 was described with a diameter of forty feet. All the earth within 

 this limit to the original surface was then removed, which was found 

 at a depth of bet\ x- n eight and nine feet. The difference between this 

 measure and thai of the height of the mound from the outside, is due 



' Daring the past summer and autumn (1895) investigations have been carried 

 on in certain Ohio mounds by Mr. Gerard Fowke in behalf of the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. This report and the succeeding ones give the 

 results of his investigations. All objects obtained by Mr. Fowke arenowin the 

 archaeological collections of the Academy. 



Clarence B. Moore. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 507 



partly to compression of the earth by the weight of the structure, and 

 partly to the increase and looseness, from cultivation, of soil in the field. 



The mound presented no peculiarity of construction ; its erection 

 had been practically continuous, at least to the height at which 

 this excavation began, for there was neither Hue of demarcation in 

 the small masses of dumped earth composing it, nor any trace of 

 vegetable growth such as would take place if the work were inter- 

 rupted. Several sorts of earth entered into its composition, mostly 

 like that immediately around, though it contained some that is not to 

 be found, superficially, nearer than 300 or 400 yards away ; such 

 may, however, occur closer at hand beneath the surface. A small 

 part of it was gathered where leaves or grass hud recently been 

 burned off. 



The Iwnes mentioned by the owner were found at the depth he 

 indicated; and other fragments wei'e found below them as far as to 

 the bottom of the mound, r^cattered through earth that plainly hud 

 been disturbed since first deposited. The men who did the scraping, 

 however, insist they did not go so deep, neither was any digging done 

 in the trench they made; if this be true, these lower bones must have 

 been thrown promiscuously, mingled with earth, int<j u hole dug by 

 the builders of the mound when it had reached a height of three or 

 four feet. 



Nineteen feet north of assumed center the skeleton of a young 

 child wa.s found eighteen inches above the original surface. An 

 excavation measuring six feet east and west, by four feet north and 

 south, had been made when the mound, or this portion of it was less 

 than three feet high, and lined with a thin layer of bark or wood 

 which extended beyond it on every side; the bottom was (juite. 

 irregular except in the north- west corner where a space had been 

 leveled barely large enough to afford a resting place for the body, 

 which lay extended on the back with head to the east. With the 

 bones of the neck were 65 copper beads; these hud been strung on 

 vegetable fiber, along with .-imail disk .shell beads, the latter too soft 

 for recovery, (^n the right wrist were two small copper Ijracelets. 



Nothing else was found above the natural surface. Below the top 



soil is black loam a foot deep, resting on a stratum of hard, gravelly 



red earth two feet thick, below which is the gray sand who>e hotloni 



has never been found. This definite arrangement made it easy to 



aBcertain the aimB and methods of the builders. 




508 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



The burials within the mound were only incidental, and had no 

 part in the original pur[>ose for which it was erected. It had been 

 designed to cover only two graves. The first of these had its axis 

 almost coincident with a radius extending nearly northeast from the 

 center stake. At eight feet to each side of this line began a thin 

 seam of decayed wood which sloped uniformly toward the a.xis till it 

 reached a depth of two feet at four and one-half feet from its place 

 of beginning; the earth below it had never been disturbed, while 

 that above it had been dumped in to restore the level. At this dis- 

 tance it came to the edge of a pit seven feet in width dug one foot 

 into the gray sand, with walls vertical or in some places slightly 

 overhanging on account of the caving-in of the loose material while 

 the work was progressing. In the bottom of the hole (four feet 

 deep) had been placed two to three inches of the red gravel earth, 

 on which lay three to four inches of gray sand, thus reversing their 

 proper order; above this came the seam of decayed wood extending 

 entirelv across the excavated space to the natural surface, as men- 

 tioned above; next in order was a thin layer of burned earth, ashes, 

 and charcoal reaching from the shoulders to the knees, and slightly 

 beyond the frame on each side of a skeleton nearly six feet long, 

 which lay extended on the back, with feet toward the center of the 

 mound. On each wrist were two small copper bracelets; about the 

 waist, as if belonging to a belt, was nearly a pint of disk shell bead.^. 

 some of them being too soft to save; between the femurs were a few 

 Marginellas; about the neck were eleven cylindrical or barrel-shaped 

 beads made of some thick shell and drilled lengthwise; under the 

 feet was a knife or spear, three inches long, of Basavite. Some por- 

 tions of the bones were quite hard and solid; others soft from decay. 

 The skull, 21 feet from the center stake, lay in a mass of very wet 

 decayed wood and ashes, and was in fragments; the crown was 

 stained a bright red, probably with Hematite. 



The confused and irregular layers and streaks of decayed wood in 

 the dark soil with which the grave was filled were perplexing; but 

 it appeared that the body had been protected by a layer of wood 

 supported by chunks and by poles whose ends were thrust into the 

 sand on either side. Earth was thrown on this covering to the original 

 level of the soil; saplings or small poles were then laid around the 

 margin of the grave to uphold a roof of wood or bark. Afler this 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 509 



was partly decayed, it was covered with a small heap of dark earth 

 immediately preliminary to beginning the mound. 



Each end of the grave was followed to the red gravel, fovmd at 

 two feet from the head and the same distance from the feet o^ the 

 .skeleton. It could not be ascertained whether the same slope con- 

 tinued outward from these points as from the sides; for the eastern 

 end was three feet beyond the bank surrounding the area being ex- 

 amined, making it dangerous to follow farther; while at the other 

 end nothing could be made out with certainty, as other operations, 

 carried on about the same time, had encroached on this space. 



Figure 1 shows a cross-section; and Figure 2 a longitudinal sec- 

 tion of so much as was definitely outlined. 





::), 



c ^■:: Ah< 



^ 



Fig. 1. Cioot. aecliuu, iJisl giavt-. V'olgainorf mound. 



Fiu. 2. Longitudiual section, first grave. Volgaiiiore mound. 



a. Black soil, 1 foot. 



f>. Red gravel, 2 feet. 



r. Gray sand, bottomless. 



d. Mi.xed earth filling grave and continous with that of the mound above. 



e. .Vshes; charcoal, and burned earth. 1 inch thick. 

 /. Skeleton. 



)f. Hed gravel. 2 to 3 inches thick (dei>o8ited). 

 A. Gray sand, 3 to 4 inches thick (deposited ). 



- - - - (Dotted lines. ) Decayed wood and bark, varyinjj in thickne.H.s from h 

 streak to A inches. 



Zig-zag line in Fig. 2 denotes limit of certainty regarding structure. 

 Scale: one-ninth of one inch equals one foot. 



The second grave wa.-^ by far the InrgCMt that has been recorded in 

 this region. Its dip began on the .south side at the margin of tlie 

 forty-foot circle cleared out; on the north side, a foot south and two 

 feet west of the as.sumed center mark of the tumuIuB. The outline 

 was tortuous, but could easily be (raced Ly the dtca^td wood which 




510 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



hiul lineil it. or by the clifTerence in color and consistency of the 

 earth on either side. When fully exposed, by removal of the top 

 soil around it, it formed an irregular ellipse with a narrow prolonga- 

 tion toward the east. Its entire length was 27 feet on a line almost 

 exactly east and west; its maximum breadth ^lineteen feet. On the 

 east, north, and south sides, the dip was gradual as in the first grave; 

 but on the west side it was abrupt the entire depth. From near the 

 top of the red gravel, except at the east end where a more gradual 

 slope was left to facilitate the passage of the aboriginal undertakers, 

 the walls were carried directly downward ibur feet into the gray 

 sand, forming a pit. measuring on the bottom, sixteen feet from ea.<t 

 to west, ten feet from north to south, and seven feet deep from the 

 surface. In this, midway between the sides l)ut a little nearer the 

 western end, lay a skeleton about six feet long, extended on the 

 back, head east, arms by the sides, left hand under the hip. The 

 skull was broken by pressure of the earth. About the neck were a 

 few disk beads, and just above the knees a few ISIarginellas, all very 

 soft. On each forearm were three copper bracelets, one large and 

 two small. One of the larger was so corroded as to fall in two; it 

 was not made of a solid rod, as is usual, but of sheet copper rolled 

 into a cylinder and bent to the desired form. [See note.] 



There was no trace of cloth or skins, except adherent to the 

 bracelets, unless the soft, loose, black earth about the bones was due 

 to decay of such material. A thin seam of bark above the body 

 reached a little to each side, but none had been placed beneath it. 

 The wood found about the outer part of the excavation did not 

 extend down the sides into it ; small disconnected patches were seen 

 at a few places in the earth filling the grave, but if it had evter been 

 continuous at any level no evidence of such fact now remained. 



A longitudinal section is given in Fig. 3, and cross sections, at 

 intervals of five feet, in Figs. 4—8. 



Fio. 3. Horizontal section of large grave in Volgamore Mound. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADEI^PHIA. 



511 



Fig. 4. 



1 II ;. 5. 



4 



Kr.. 0. 



Fro. 7. 



r 



^ 



Fif). «. 



Fkih. 1-8. Crofw Hections at irittrvals of five feet. I.^rge grave. Volgamore 

 Motitid. One-ninth of (»ne incli o(|uiils one foot. 

 a. Itlack soil, 1 foot. 

 0. Red gravel, 2 feet. 

 <■. Gray naiid. bottomlfoo. 



(/. " Duniped " earth, continnoiis to toji of mound. 

 /'./'. Mingled red and gray, "diiinjK!d." 

 X-. Head of skeleton. 

 o. I..eg8 of Mkeleton . 

 — - (Dotted line) Decayed wnixl or bark 




612 I'ROCEKUINGS OK TH K Al'ADKMY OK [1896. 



Note. — Uuriug exteuded researches in the Florida iiiuiindBu considerable col- 

 lection of objects of copper, almost exclusively ornaments, has been gathered. 

 These t>rnan)ents. with tlieexcei)tiiin of several heavy 

 lieads.areof thin sheet copper. The only other objects 

 of copper not purely ornamental are piercing iniple- 

 uients. sonu'tinu's pointed at both ends, and these a 

 careful examination sliows usually to be made of 

 sheet copper hammered around and around on 

 itself. It is interesting to note that in Ohio, a region 

 where objects of solid copi)er are of not infrequent 

 Kkj. 9. !<ection of copper occurrence, a use of sheet copper similar to that seen 

 bracelet. (Twiceactual in Florida is observed. 



''***■' A number of the bracelets found by Mr. Fowke, 



by their weight, lighter than their size would indi- 

 cate, seem to be of sheet copper. Fig. 9 gives a section of the bracelet, once 

 enlarged. 



('. H. M. 



Thk C.M.DWKLL Moi^NI>, 



Where the Scioto River passes tVoin Pike in Scioto county the 

 terraces bordering it are reduced to two ; the first is sul)ject to over- 

 flow, while the second marks the highest level at which drift was 

 deposited in this vicinity. A few hundred feet .'^outh of the county 

 line, sixteen niile.< from the Ohio River, on the farm of Mr. S. A. 

 Caldwell, a mound nine feet high and seventy-five feet in diameter 

 at the base stood on the brink of the higher terrace ; in the same 

 field are two smaller moiuKls; and skeletons with pottery and other 

 relics have been found near the surface in excavating for gravel 

 along the slope. 



On the larger mound a circle forty feet in diameter was laid off, 

 with the apex as a center, and all within this limit removed to the 

 undisturbed earth beneath. The structure was composed entirely of 

 the clavey soil and clay subsoil which here overlie the gray gravel; 

 it was quite dry and packed .so hard that the entire mass had to be 

 loosened with picks. Roughly- finished arrow-heads, flint chips, and 

 a few fragments of pottery, the latter of clay and coarsely-pounded 

 stone, were scattered promiscuously through it. Near the outer wall 

 of the excavated area on the east and south sides were several root 

 holes, denoting that small trees, three to six inches in diameter, had 

 been burned or cut off before the mound was begun. These were 

 not post-holes, like those to be de.scribed, for they went much deeper 

 and turned aside at or near the lowest point to which they could be 

 followed. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 513 



Traces or fragments of human remains were found in six places. 

 At one foot above the bottom, four feet south, and two feet west of 

 the center, was a skull, the bones belonging with it extending south- 

 ward. At the same level, five feet south, eight feet west of center 

 was a skull stained with hematite; there were also traces of bone six 

 inches above the last. At three and one-half feet above the bottom, 

 ten feet ea-st of the center, wa8 a skull which seemed to have been 

 placed with the face uppermost; three feet west of it, and six inches 

 higher, with no trace of other bones in the intervening space, was a 

 [)elvis with leg bones extending southward from it but not parallel ; 

 immediately beneath, was a dark line extending entirely across the 

 mound, showing that the work had been stopped for a time at this 

 height; the body or skeleton had been laid on what was then the top 

 of the mound, covered with bark on which was thrown a foot of 

 earth running to a feather-edge a foot west of center. After this, 

 another interval in the labor followed, as shown by a similar line. 

 A body had then been laid on the summit, with the head six and 

 one-half feet ea.«t of the center, the feet toward the west. On the 

 skull were several pieces of n)ica, some of them trimmed to a cres- 

 centic outline, and a small, very smooth, sandstone ornament re- 

 sembling a fiddle l)ridge in shape. The last skull discovered was 

 .six feet above the bottom, eight feet south of the center ; it, also, had 

 mica lying on it, some cut like that above mentioned. All the bones 

 found were so soft as to fall to pieces on exposure ; and most of them 

 were -so decayed that thev could be traced only as a streak or thin 

 layer by their color. 



When the bottom was reached, the result was <lisapp(»inting ; there 

 was no trace of a grave or other form of burial in or on the soil. A 

 line of soft earth which ap[)eared to form the edge of an excavation, 

 proved to be oidy a narrow trench x to I'i inches wide at the top, 

 somewhat narrower at the bottoni, an<l not more than a foot deep, 

 .surrounding an irregular fjuadrilateral space about twenty "feet 

 across. A considerable part of the undisturbed surface now exposed 

 wa.s covered with a layer of ashes and charcoal, containing many 

 small fragment*! of burned animal bone, but no jMittery fragments or 

 other art products. It varied from a thin streak to a layer of 3 or 

 4 inches ; where it was heaviest the earth beneath was considerably 

 burned. Many [M)8t-hole8 were found, some five or six inches in 

 diameter and about two feet deep, others a foot in either dimension ; 




514 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AC'AI>EMY OF [1895. 



the parts were burned prior to the depositing of at least some of the 

 ashes, for the latter extended in an unbroken layer over the holes, 

 except in three or four places where the posts were left projecting 

 somewhat above the surface, as shown by the hollow molds in the 

 body of the mound which had packed around them before their de- 

 cay. These molds were lined with the charcoal from the burned 

 stumps. The trench had been dug through the ashes, except where 

 it extended beyond them on the west side; but their .^straight margin 

 here as contrasted with the curved outline in other parts, and the 

 abrupt change of direction at the northwest corner, indicate that 

 they had been swept or scraped away on this side before the digging 

 began. 



In a mass of ashes about four inches thick, four to six feet east of 

 the center, were many small fragments of bones of a child, burned 

 until nearly destroyed; nine feet south, three feet east of the center 

 were a few fragments of bones of an adult, similarly burned. Both 

 deposits were lying on the natural surface in the bed of ashes. 



No explanation or inter])retiition of these facts will be attempted; 

 the reader must form his own conclusions. There may have been 

 some sort of a building of which the posts formed a part; but they 

 do not seem well arranged for such purpose, and no others exist 

 within the excavated space, for every foot of it was carefully ex- 

 amined. The ash-bed, if the fact of a house be admitted, may be 

 due to ordinary domestic life; but this would not account for the 

 cremated human bones. Nor could the latter be so thoroughly 

 charred unless intentionally burned, for, although they were in a 

 mass of ashes, there was no indication of any considerable amount of 

 heat about where they were found. 



To repeat : — The posts were burned off, as is proven by the ciiar- 

 coal found in the holes where they stood, and especially in the (;asts 

 above the ashes; the latter were deposited, at least in part, after such 

 burning as is shown by their continuity above the holes; and the 

 trench was dug still later, because the ashes came up to its i-iargin 

 on both sides and stopped there, and in two or three places the yellow 

 earth from its bottom lay directly upon them. Further, only a short 

 f)eriod of time was embraced in these stages, for the projecting ends 

 of the posts were still solid enough when the mound was built for 

 the earth deposited over and around them to pack so firmly that it 




1895.] NATrKAI. SCIKNCKS OF PH I LAOELPHI A. 515 



held ib« siiape after tliey had disappeared. Finally, the construction 

 of the mound was intermittent. 



Excavation ok a J.ow Mouni» in Pike County. 



A mile north of Waketield, in Pike County, on the Barnes farm, 

 are the enclosures figured by Scjuier and Davis as the "works in Seal 

 Township." Near the south-east corner of the square enclosure is a 

 mound, now about three feet high and sixty feet in diameter, sur- 

 rounded by a ditch and embankment. A circle 25 feet across was 

 laid off on the highest part of this and the earth removed to the sub- 

 soil. 



About eight feet northwest of the center, and 16 inches above the 

 original surface were two or three fragments of human skull ; and 

 between three and four feet south of them portions of human femora; 

 these probably were the remains of a l)ody that had been laid 

 extended with head to the north. No other human remains were 

 found in the structure. 



Eleven feet .'south of the center were several small pieces of mica, 

 some of them fragments of trimmed and perforated pieces, others 

 rough flakes split off from a larger piece; on them lay nine flint 

 blocks or cores, evidently raw material for implement*; these were 

 partially covered with a large sheet of mica; one of the blocks was 

 chipped into a rude hatchet-form. A foot east of these were two 

 gorgets; one was of close-grained slate, well ina<le, with a single per- 

 foration; the other of micaceous sandstone with two perforations. 

 Three feet east of these wjis a dejwsit containing a finely wrought 

 flint knife, a rough and a broken arrow-head, a flint block like those 

 fir.-t found, and a sheet of mica. These were all at the same level 

 as the human bones found on the op|)Odite side of the mound; l)ut 

 there was no evidence of a burial at the place they occurred. The 

 flint block.s were irregular fragment.-' of larger nodules, with a chalky 

 exterior, a coating of silicate of lime, and the concretionary structure 

 well marked in srime. No flint of this character has ever bocii found 

 in place in Ohio; a similar stone occurs abundantly near the Wyan- 

 dotte Cave in southern Indiana, l>ut is not known to exiBt at a nearer 

 [>oint. 



36 




/ilB PROCEEDINGS OF THK AC'AOKMY OK [1896. 



November 5. 

 The President, General Ipaac J. Wistar, in the Chair. 

 Thirty- two persons present. 



The doiitli of Charles M. Tliomas, M. D., a member, was an- 

 nounced. 



Dr. S. G. Dixon made an announcement of the curative effiect 

 of the subcutaneous injection of a saturated solution of taurin in an 

 aggravated case of Acne pustulosa. (^No abstract). 



November 12. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the Chair, 

 Thirty persons present. 



November 19. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the Chair. 

 Ninety-three persons present. 



A paper entitled " The Bees of the Genus Perdita F. Smith," by 

 T. D. A. Cockerell, was presented for publication. 



November 26. 

 The President, (General Isaac J. Wistar, in the Chair. 



Thirty-six persons present. 



A paper entitled "Contributions to the Flora of Greenland, " by 

 Theo. Holm, was presented for publication. 



Prof. Angelo Heilprin having resigned the Professorship of In- 

 vertebrate Paleontology was elected Professor of Geology by the 

 Council. 



The resignation of Mr. Harold Wingate as a member of the 

 Council was received and accepted. 



The following were elected members : 



N. W. Frazier, Samuel H. Gilbert, Seneca Egbert, M. D. , 

 Wilfred H. Harned, John Cadwalader, Jr., and Gulielma M. S. P. 

 Jones. • 



The following was ordered to be printed : 




1895.] NATTRAIi SCIENCKS OF PHILADELPHIA. 517 



SYNOPSIS OF THE NORTH AMERICAN SPECIES OF GORYTES Latr. 



BY WILLIAM .1. FOX. 



GORYTES r^treille. 



Gorytes I^treille, liLst. Nat.. XIII, p. 308, 1805. 



Hoplism: Ix-peletier de St. Fargeau, Ann. Soc. Ent. F'ranco. I, i>. 5H, I83'~'. 



Eusponffus Lepelctier de St. Fargeau, ibid. 



Dienoplus Fox, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila.. p. 549, 1893. 



For the full synonymv of this genus see Handlirsch's mono- 

 graph. =^ 



Female-s. 



Autennie ntrongly clavate. (Eyes larf?e, strongly ronve.x and 

 strongly converging toward clypeu.s; tarsi graceful and 



long; mesosternuru not cariuated.) monedul aides. 



Antennie not strongly clavate 2 



li. First segment of abd<jnien eoarctate at ape.x 3 



First segment of abdomen not eoarctate, sessile or subpetio- 



late o 



H. First recurrent nervure received by the first submarginal cell; 

 wings hyaline throughout; subniediaii cell (anal area) of 

 posterior wings terminating nnich before the origin of the 



cubital nervure; size small bijjKiiciafus. 



Both recurrent nervures received by the second submarginai 

 cell; wings with a fuscous cloud; submedian cell (anal 

 area) not or terminating but little l)efore the origin of the 



cubital nervure; size larger 4 



4. FncloHure of middle segment striated at l>ase only; head. 



thora.x, abdomen and legs spotted with yellow inrllinoidoi. 

 Fndosure of middle .segment striated throughout; entirely 

 black, e.xcept the seeoiid alidomiiial segment uliich is ru- 

 fous nij'or-iiirfilS. 



o. WingH clear, without the usual fuscous spot »^ 



Wings more or less fuscous, always with a cloud in the 



vicinity of the marginal and submarginai cells 8 



I'k i''irst abdominal si'gnieiil siil)|)etiolate, the apical margins of 

 all the segments broadly clothed with pale |iubescciice. 



. . . I .li III inn. 



First abdominal segment sessile .7 



• Hitziingshcrichtc der k. k. .Vkadciiiic dcr \Vi(w<'n<!lmft«'n, Wiiii, Nbitlie- 

 iiiHtiscli-natiirwitwenmliaftliilif Clu-^Hi-, .MitlieiliniK I. X< Nil ltd., p. :<17. 




•^18 PROCEEDINOS OK TIIK ACADKMY OK [1895. 



7. Submediau cell of posterior wings termiuatiiig much before 



the origin of the I'ubital vein; thorax and legs black, not 

 spottt'il; abdomen reddish in greater part, not marked with 

 yellow; enelosure of middle segment striated basally. 



picfifroiis. 



Sulimedian (.-ell of jjosterior wings not, or bnt sliglitly, termi- 

 nated before the origin of the cubital vein; thorax and legs 

 spotted with pale yellow; hind femora and two basal seg- 

 ments of abdomen, reddish, the abdominal segments above 

 with pale yellow on their apical margins; enclosure of 

 middle segment striated throughout Coquillettii. 



8. Second ventral segment not at all angular 12 



Second ventral segment jirominently angular 9 



9. Middle segment coarsely rugose throughout 11 



.Middle segment not rugose, the furrow forming the enclosure 



broad, crossed longitudinally' by coarse ridges; flagellum 

 subdavate (third segment not fasciate; second ventral with 

 very large punctures toward the base) nigrifrons. 



10. Palpi dark; fourth dorsal abdominal segment without a fascia, 



or with a very short one mystuceus. 



Pali)i in part yellow; fourth dorsal segment with a complete 

 fascia campestris* 



11. Eyes converging but little toward the clypeus 12 



Eyes distinctly converging toward the clypeus 20 



12. At the most the middle segment and lirst segment of abdo- 



men rufous; space between base of clypeus and fore ocellus 

 as broad, or nearly so, as long IH 



Entirely rufous, with yellow markings, the yellow bands of 

 abdomen unusually broad; middle segment yellow; space 

 between base of clyi>eus and anterior ocellus distinctly 



longer than broad divcrsus. 



18. Middle segment and first segment of abdomen more or less 



reddish 14 



Middle segment and first segment of abdomen not reddish . . lo 

 14. Last dorsal segment with a well-developed jjygidial area 

 which is subtriangular and rugose; second discoidal cell 

 with apical portion dark fuscous; legs variegated with red, 

 black and yellow spUoj)terus. 



Last dorsal segment with the pygidial area poorly developed, 

 short and broad, strongly punctured; second discoidal cell 

 l)ale fuscous except its lower portion; legs red, with the 

 tibiai yellow in part tricolor.^ 



* -Vccording to Handlir.scli. the second ventral segment of mjs/aceus, to- 

 ward tlie base, is marked with deeji foveie. while in ca»ipcslyis that segment 

 has only larger punctures toward the base. A(^<-ording to the specimens be- 

 fore me, consisting of a ^ and 9 of myslaceus and a cf campestris, this state- 

 ment should be reversed as rJ;«/><?//r/.r has the deep fovese and ;«)'5/a<:<'M5 the 

 punctures. 




1895.] XATtRAI- SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 519 



15. Last dorsal segment yellow 16 



Last dorsal segment black 17 



16. Legs black; first dorsal segment not fasciate fuacxis. 



Legs reddish, except base; fii-st dorsal segment fasciate. pygidialis. 



17. Mesostenium anteriorly sharply and strongly cariuated; 



pygidium broad, not more than twice as long as its width 



in the middle 18 



Mesosternum anteriorly neither sharply nor strongly cari- 

 nated; pygidium long, narrow, somewhat more than twii-e 

 as long as its width in the mitidle (form very robust) . cosfci/zn. 



18. Xo distinct fuscous cloud in the second discoidal cell; front 



distinctly longer than broad: coxieand trochanters reddish, 



rarely obscure 19 



A distinct fuscous cloud filling the apical third of second dis- 

 coidal cell; front fully as broad as long; coxje, trochanters 

 and femora in i)art, obscure nrhnlosuA. 



19. Wings, excepting the usual fuscous cloud in the vicinity of 



the marginal cell, hyaline; enclosure of middle segment 

 with 14-16 close-set ridges conjrr/us. 



"Wings fuscous, the cloud in the vicinity of the marginal cell 

 darker; enclosure of middle segment with 10-12 well- 

 separated ridges denticulnirw. 



-0. Middle segment more or less coarsely sculptured 21 



Middle segment not coarsely .scul])tured, smooth . . 30 



21. Posterior surface of middle segment coarsely- sculptured .22 

 Only the basal enclosure of middle segment coarsely sculp- 

 tured entirely or in part 27 



22. Wings with a strong yellow tinge on basal two-thirds ... 23 

 Wings not yellow ba.sally 2.5 



2:^. Sculpture of enclosure of niiddle segment consisting of even, 

 radiating ridges; flagellum either entirely black, or with 



basal joints reddish 24 



Sculpture of enclosure of middle segment coarsely and irregu- 

 larly rugose; flagellum yellow beneath, black above (mark- 

 ings bright yelhnv; first joint of fiageilum distinctly shorter 

 than the two following united I anjjf rnfuM. 



24. Flagellum long, scarcely clavate, the first joint distinctly 

 shorter than the two following united; clypeus entirely 



black; markings yellow nirij'ronH. 



Flagellum short, subciavate, the first joint but little longer 

 than the following two united; cly[)eUH whitish basally; 

 marking whitish it/hoHii/mihtH. 



liTy. Femora, except apex, and the tiblji- in part, black; fiageilum 



yellow beneath, black alM>ve 26 



Femora in greater part, tibin- and tarsi, reddish; Magellum 

 black, basal joints reddish > middle Hcgmeiit with two large 

 yellow spots) . . diioruH. 




520 PKOCEEDINGS OK TIIK ACADKMV OF [1895. 



2H. Flagellum long, setaceous; scape elongate much more than 

 twice as long as broad at apex; middle segment with two 



yellow spots (Uricornin. 



Flagellum shorter, a little clavate; scape short but little more 

 than twice as long as its width at apex, middle segment 



not spotted canaliculntutt. 



'21. Extreme base of enclosure of middle segment only striated . . 2S 



i'intire enclosure covered with strise 29 



'28. Wings scarcely yellow the stigma testaceous; markings palish 



yellow; dorsal segments 4 and 5 impunctate .... aimillimus. 

 Wings with a tolerably yellow tinge, the stigma yellow; 

 markings bright yellow; dorsal segments 4 and 5 with scat- 

 tered punctures angustatus var. 



Ii9. Antennji? with the flagellum distinctly thickened apically, 



yellowish beneath, at least basally amjustatua. 



Antennpe slender, the flagellum setaceous, obscure testaceous 



beneath nevadeiuis. 



.SO. Dorsal segments 4 and 5 impunctate 31 



Dorsal segments 4 and 5 with distinct, scattered punctures . . 35 



31. Suture between dorsulum and scutellum foveolate 32 



Suture between dorsulum and scutellum not foveolate 



phaleratuH. 



32. Wings, in greater part, dark fuliginous 33 



Wings yellow ferruginous venustus. 



33. Wings clear at apex; first two segments almost entirely 



yellow ahdominalis. 



Wings entirely fuliginous; only the first segment spotted 

 with yellow 34 



34. Head and thorax black, ornamented with yellowish; clypeus 



black; first dorsal segment entirely yellow Smithii. 



Head and thorax reddish-brown, including the clypeus; first 

 segmen t yel low at apex , other wise colored 1 i ke thorax ./oridanus. 



35. Wings subfuscous ; clypeus entirely yellow ; middle segment 



entirely black, pygidial area with sparse, shallow punc- 

 tures bipariitits. 



Wings hyaline, the marginal cell excepted; clypeus with base 

 only yellow; middle segment with two rufous spots; 

 pygidial area with deep, closer punctures . . . rufomaculatua 



Males. 

 Antennae strongly clavate; hind tarsi unusually long and 



graceful moneduloides. 



Antennae not strongly clavate; hind tarsi not unusually long . 2 

 2. First segment of abdomen coarctate at apex (abdomen black, 

 the second and third dorsal segments with a lateral pale 



spot) bipunctatus. 



First segment not coarctate, sessile or subpetiolate 3 




1895.] NATURAL .SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 521 



8. Submedian cell of posterior wiugs terminating: l>efore the 



origin of the cubital vein 4 



Submedian cell of posterior wings not terminating before the 



origin of the cubital vein 8 



4. Second ventral segment prominently angular 6 



Second ventral segment nut angular 5 



•"). First abdominal segment subpetiolate, apical margins of the 

 segments broadly margined with pale pubescence; antenna' 



short e-ciiiiiiis. 



First abdominal segment sessile, the abdomen red in part, not 



pubescent; antenna' long, slender pictij'roiiK. 



G. Middle segment coarsely rugose throughout 7 



Middle segment not rugose, the furrow forming the enclosure 

 wide, crossed longitudinally by strong ridges; antenna- 

 shorter than head and thorax, joints 2-6 of flagellum 

 strongly rounded-out beneath nigrifrons. 



7. Antenna' very long; palpi ol>ecure mpsfaceiis. 



Antenna' shorter; palpi in part yellow campesfris.* 



8. Middle segment more or less coarsely sculptured 9 



Middle segment not coarsely sculptured, smooth ;^l 



5». Dorsulum strongly punctured 10 



Dorsulum not strongly punctured -0 



10. p'irst abdominal segment subpetiolate; last ventral segment 



bifid li> 



P'irst abdominal segment not Bui>petiolate 11 



11. Fifth ventral abdominal segment armed with a strong promi- 



nence at each side. (See lig. 1.) vouferlua. 



Fifth ventral segment unarmed lli 



I'J. Mesosternum dentate laterally (entirely red, with pale mark- 

 ings) l."{ 



Mesostemum not dentate 14 



1:{. Middle segment not at all yellow; abdominal fascia- nar- 

 row; fuscous cloud of fore wings not extending beyond the 

 a|>ex of marginal and third subnuirginai ceils . . . dnitdtiin. 

 Middle segment yellow in greater part; alxlominal fascia un- 

 usually liroad; fuscous cloud uf fore wings extending to 



ajiex of wing divrrsun. 



14. Fighth and ninth joints of Ilagellum spinose beneath 10 



I'^ighth and ninth joints of tlagellum not spinose, at the mont 



tuljerculate !•") 



l"). Enclosed space on middle segment smooth; middle segment 

 and first and last abdominal segments more or less red; 



legs entirely red Irimlor. 



Enclosed space on middle segment distinctly striated; middle 



• See foot note. p. 518. 




522 PHOCEEUINQS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1896. 



eegmeut and lirst abdominal segment not red, the last seg- 

 ment yellow }iygi(HalU. 



16. Clypeus with a buuch of long, curved hairs in each angle ... 17 

 Clypeus with the hair at angles not very long, not curved or 



buufhed 1*^ 



17. Spine of ninth joint of tlagelluin large and distinct; head aH 



wide as thora.x; leg.-^ blariv and j'ellow hamatus. 



Spine of ninth joint of tlageUnm Hinall,indit*tinrt; head Hmall, 

 narrower than thorax; legs red and yellow . . . microciphdlits. 



18. Wings fuscous, the cloud in the vicinity of the marginal cell 



darker; middle segment with two yellow spots . . deuticulatua. 

 Wings, except the usual fuscous cloud in the vicinity of the 

 marginal cell, subhyaliue ; middle segment not spotted 

 barbalulus. 



19. Wings entirely yellowish, the marginal cell scarcely darker; 



antenna^ entirely rufous. Length 11 mm laminiferuH. 



Wings slightly j-ellowish basally, the marginal cell distinctly 

 fuscous; antennie dark above mirandus. 



20. Last ventral segment emargiuate or bifid, flagellum rather 



short, the last four joints enlarged, somewhat emarginate 



beneath (wings without a fuscous cloud) insofiius. 



Last ventral segment with a spine or process 21 



21. Posterior surface of middle segment coarsely sculptured ... 22 

 Only the basal enclosure of middle segment coarsely sculptured 27 



22. Eyes very broad, their width equalling more than half their 



length, the space between them at base of clypeus about 

 equal to the length of the latter in the middle; enclosure of 



middle segment irregularly rugose asperatus. 



Eyes as usual, their width scarcely equalling half their 

 length, the space between the eyes at base of clypeus 

 greater than the length of the latter in the middle; enclo- 

 sure of middle segment longitudinally ridged 23 



2.3. Wings with a strong yellow tinge on basal portion 24 



Wings not, or but slightly, yellow basally 25 



24. Antenute tolerably long, reaching a little beyond the scutel- 



lum; markings bright yellow atrifrons. 



Antenna? shorter, not reaching beyond the scutellum; mark- 

 ings whitish alb08ignatu8. 



2.5. Antennae a little thickened apically, the joints irregular (legs 



black and yellow) canaliculatus. 



Antenntc not thickened apically, the joints more even . . . . 2G 

 2»i. Femora except apex and tibiie in part yellowish; dorsulum 



unspotted ....*. atricornia. 



Femora, in greater part, tibise and tarsi, reddish; dorsulum with 



a lateral stripe or spot decorus. 



27. Only the base of the enclosure of middle segment with striae. . 28 

 The entire surface of enclosure of middle segment striated. . . 29 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 523 



28. Flagellum uot thickened apically; winge scarcely yellowish. 



»imillimus. 



Flagellum thickened apically, wings yellowish basally. 



anc/it.status var. 



29. Wings distinctly yellowish; femora entirely yellow beneath. . 80 

 Wings scarcely yellowish; femora black basally beneath. 



simillimus var. 



80. Flagellum thickened apically angustatits. 



Flagellnm setaceous nevadensis 



81. Dorsal segments 4 and 5 impunctate 32 



Dorsal segments 4 and .5 with distinct,' scattered punctures . . 36 



82. Suture between dorsulum and scutelluni fin-eolate 34 



Suture between dorsulum and scutellum nut foveolate .... 88 



88. Flagellum rather long, the joints aljout twice as louj; as broad, 

 prominently rounded-out beneath; wings with a yellowish 



cast ijhaleratuK. 



Flagellum shorter, somewhat subclavate, the joints (basal 

 ones excepted) not twice as long as broad, not rounded-out 



Ijeneath; wings black, apex pale propinqum. 



.84. Wings in greater part dark fuliginous ,. . 35 



Wings yellow, ferruginous vetuisfus. 



85. Wings clear at apex; middle segment spotted with reddish. 



abdominal in. 



Wings entirely fuliginous (bead and thorax black) . . . iiOiU/iii. 



86. Antenuie rather long, reaching at least to apex of scutelluni. . 87 

 Antennai shorter, not reaching to apex of scutellum, subclav- 

 ate (middle segment spotted with rufous) . . . ru/omaculatits. 



87. Abdomen with very broad fa-scije; middle segment sjKjtted 



with yellow; ba.sal joints of flagellum reddish . . . . fasciafus. 

 Abdomen with narrow fa.sciio; middle segment not spotted; 

 basal joints of tlagelluni black alMJve hipariitiis. 



1. Goryt«B moneduloides I'ack. 



(Joryles moufdtiloidfs Packard, Proc. Ent. .Soc, Phila., VI, p. 421. ^ . 

 (iorytes Be //rajT^f i Cres&on, Trans. .\m. Ent. Soc, IV. p. 2*J4. 9 



Georgia, I^ouisiana, Texas. A 9 s|)ecinien, from Mexico, diHers 

 by the dark lejrs, absence of yellow s|)ot8 of scutelluni, aii<l tlic liainl 

 of first dorsal abdominal se^rniciit is lirokni into two spots. 



2. Oorytes bipunctatua .Siiy. 



(^iory'/es bi/>nnc/atus Sny, Xiirr. F'xik!(1. .St. Pct«T's Kivcr ( KciitiiiKl II. /<>'>I., 



p. 338. 

 I.e^tiphorus hiftunctatu^ Ihihllxini. Hym. V.wx., I, p. I.")?. 

 EusfioHf^Hi bipHHCtalus I)Hhlln>ni, iluil.. p. 4H0; (,'reiwon. .SynopBis. ji. 117. 

 (ior\'les bipunt lalus Haii(llirs4ii. Sitzli. k. k. .\kucl. WJKHcnwIi., Wii-ii, .Ma- 



thcm.-naturw. (las.se. Al>tli. I. liiuid XCVII. p. ^'i.'i, 9 



Found thnmglioiit the I'uited State.'*, except in the States north 

 hikI iiortlicai-t of Pfimsv Ivaiiia. Tlic iiiah- is similar l»» the ffiiuih; 




524 I'KOCKKDINOS OK TIIK A('AI>K>rV Ol- flRO.'). 



heinsr marked the same. It agrees witli the group characters given 

 hy Haiullirsch. on p. 347 of his work, except that the first recur- 

 rent vein is received hv the secon(i suhmarginal coll, instead of the 

 first as in the female. 



The spots on the second abdominal .segment arc occasionally ab- 

 sent, or enforced hy the presence of an additional pair on the third 

 segment. 



3. Gorytes rufocinctuB Fox. 



Gorylts rii/ocinclus Fo.x, ("an. Knt.. 1892, p. 153, 9 



Washington State. This may be the female of ])kriii< Hdl. , 

 which I have not seen. 



4. Gorytes pioeus Hdl. 



Goryles piceus H.&nA\'\Tiic\\, I.e., p. 455, $ 



British Columbia. Unknown to me and may be the $ oi'rufih 

 cindus. The face, antennie and legs are said to be more or less 

 yellow, and the second dorsal laterally and the second ventral rufo- 

 brunneous. 



5. Gorytes mellinoides 11. sp. 



9 . — Eyes diverging toward the clypeus, the latter convex, its 

 anterior margin a little incurved medially; antennae long, slender, 

 the first joint of flagellum longer than the scape and pedicelluni 

 united; suture between dorsulum and scutellum foveolate; mesos- 

 ternura carinated anteriorly, with the epimerum and episternum of 

 the mesothorax not separated; middle segment with the enclosure 

 well marked, and large, divided by a central furrow and longitu- 

 dinally striated on basal third, otherwise finely ])unctured; wings 

 clear, a slight fuscous cloud including part of the marginal, second sub- 

 marginal and part of third discoidal cells, nervures and stigma testa- 

 ceous, submedian cell of posterior wings terminating at, or slightly 

 before, the origin of the cubital vein; legs with the medial and hind 

 tibicC spinose, the anterior tarsi with a distinct comb, pulvilli dis- 

 tinct; abdomen with first segment distinctly coarctate at apex, 

 second segment much broader, sides rounded, pygidial area coarsely 

 and sparsely punctured, not distinctly ridged laterally, second ven- 

 tral strongly punctured. Black; clypeus, except apical margin 

 and a basal spot, inner orbits, spot between antennie, scape, pedi- 

 cellum and first Hagellum joint basally beneath, line on pionotum 

 and scutellum, the fore and medial coxae, trochanters and femora 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OK PHILADELPHIA. 525 



beneath, spot at each side of first dorsal segment, an oblique spot 

 on each side of the second, apical margin of the third dorsal and second 

 ventral, all yellow; tlagellum beneath, teguht- and greater part of 

 legs testaceous. Length 9 mm. 



Texas (Belfragej. Collection of U. S. National Museum. 



6. Gorytes mystaceus Linne. 



Sphe.v iiiyslacea Linne, Fauna Suecica, p. 412. 



Gorytes mystaceus Haudlirscb, 1. c, p. 36", f)l. II, f. L5; pi. Ill, f. C, 9 j(? • 

 For full synonymy see Handlirsch, 1. c. 



Handlirsch records this species from America. I liave only seen 



Euro{)ean examples. 



7. Gorytes campestris Miill. 



Vcspa campestris Miiller, Linne's Natursystem, V, II, 883. 

 Gorytes campestris Handlirsch, 1. c, p. 372, 9 <? » P^- I- ^- !• 25. 28; pi. II, 

 f. 14. For full synonymy see this author. 



Also recorded from North America l)y Handlirsch. I doubt the 

 occurrence of either mystaceu.i or compestris in America, the speci- 

 mens <een by Handlirsch being very likely labelled erroneously. 



8. Gorytes nigrifrons Smith. 



Gorytes nigri/rous Smith, Cat. Hym. B. M., IV, p. 368, 9 

 Gorytes Bol t ii Cresson, Tr. Am. Ent. Soc. IV, p. 22.5 9 

 Gorytes nigrifrons Handlirsch. 1. c. i>. 376. 



Nova Scotia (Smith 1; North Carolina, in Collection of U. S. 

 Nat'l Museum; Texas. Through the courtesy of Mr. Samuel Hen- 

 shaw. I have examined the tyi)e of (i. BoUii Cr., and find it agrees 

 exactly with Smith's description of niffrifrons, which therefore cor- 

 roborates Handlirsch's action in uniting the two, although he had 

 seen sf)ecimeus of neither. The wide furrow, which forms the en- 

 closure of middle segment, distinguishes this species from any of its 

 congeners, and by which character the <? , herct(»fore unknown, n>ay 

 also be .separated from either of the two preceding 8|)ecie8. 



9. Gorytes fnsons Tascli. 



■" trorytes vespindrs Smith, .Viin. Mac Nat- Hist. .\II. p, I(i7, 9 1H73. 

 //t»/>//f//s /'//?< «t Ta.schenhurn. /.fitr*ili. 1". <l. «<-s. Niiturw., p. 36h, isT.'i. 



Recorded fnnn Connecticut by Handlirsch. Occurs in Mexico 

 and Brazil. Tiie i , which I have not seen, is said to be distin- 

 guished from its allies by its simple, non-enuirginate, non-spinose 

 or tulxTculate antenmi', and by the first segment i)ciiig not fasciate. 

 10 Gorytes confertus n. sp. 



9 . — Eyes toward the clypeus very slightly converging; antenna* 

 u little ciuvate, the scape longer than the pcdicclliini and lir^-t joint 




526 PRooKEoiNos <»r rirK Af^AitEMv oi [1895. 



of rta!2:ellum united, the latter joint much longer than the second; 

 clypeus with anterior raarfjin truncate, not barbate laterally; front 

 strongly and sparsely punctured; dorsuluni with large sparse 

 punctures, those of the mesopleura? less strong; suture between 

 iloraulum and scutellum foveolate; episternuni and epimeruni 

 mesothoracis indistinctly separated, the mesosternum sharply cari- 

 nated anteriorly and laterally; middle segment posteriorly with 

 large punctures, the enclosure rather large, well-marked, with 14-16 

 close-set, ridges or stri;e; legs stout, the tibia' spinose, fore tarsi 

 with a strong comb; wings clear, except the usual fuscous cloud, 

 which includes the marginal and part of the second and third sub- 

 marginal cells, nervures l)rown, stigma yellowish, submedian cell of 

 posterior wings terminating at the origin of the cubital vein; abdo- 

 men strongly punctured, particularly the second ventral segment, 

 pygidial area with large, elongate punctures, ridged laterally. 

 Black; clypeus, labrum, mandibles except apex, scape, flagellum 

 beneath, inner and posterior orbits, sometimes a line across the ver- 

 tex, line on pronotum, tubercles, spot behind them, scutellum, 

 postscutellum sometimes, a broad fascia at apex of dorsal segments 

 1-5, and apex of second and third ventrals more or less, all yellow; 

 legs, including coxae, entirely reddish- testaceous. Length 8-8i mm. 

 (? . — Resembles 9 as to coloration but has a strong grayish 

 sericeous reflection over the entire in- 

 sect, and the tibiae and tarsi are more 

 or less yellow. Eyes strongly con- 

 verging beneath; clypeus with a fringe 

 of hairs on each side, anteriorly, 

 which are not bunched, however; joints 

 8 and 9 of flagellum somewhat tu- 

 mid beneath, otherwise the antennae 

 simple; fifth ventral segment devel- 

 ^ . . . , , , , oped into a distinct lobe on each side 



Fig. 1. Apical segments of abdo- "^ 



men. (?. co»j/erat«, showing produc- (see figure 1). Length 8 mm. 



tion of fifth ventral segment. Montana. Is remarkable for the 



peculiar modification of the fifth ventral segment of the male. 



11. GoryteB tricolor Cress. 



Gorytes Iricolor Cresson, Tr. .\m. Ent. Soc, I, p. 380, ^ (iion 9 ). 

 Gorytes tricolor Fox, Can. Ent., 189a, p. 149, 9 . 



New Mexico; Colorado; Montana. The color of this species 




1895.] NATIRAI- SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 527 



varies from back with the middle segment red to entirely rufous. 

 The yellow ornamentation is usually the same in both forms, how- 

 ever. 



12. Gorytes ruficornis Prov. 



Gorytes ruficornis Provaucher, Add. Hym. Quebec, p. 273, 9 $ • 



California (Provancher). Unknown to me. Seems to l)e near 

 Incolor. 



13. Gorytes diversus n. sp. 



9. — Eyes parallel within; front with shallow punctures; spare 

 l)etween the fore ocellus and base of clypeus distinctly lonjrcr than 

 wide; clypeus strongly convex in middle; antennse rather longer than 

 usual for species of this section, the flagellum but little thickened 

 apically, its first joint more than one-third longer than the second, 

 scape long and narrow, longer than the following two joints united ; 

 dorsulum, mesoj)leune and middle segment posteriorly with large, 

 separated punctures; suture l)etweon dorsulum and scutellum foveo- 

 late; mesosternum carinated anteriorly, not laterally, the epimerum 

 and episternum mesothoracis indistinctly separated; enclosure of 

 middle segment well marked, with about 18 striie; tibi;e and tarsi 

 spinose, anterior tarsal comb well developed; wings with a fuscous 

 cloud including the marginal, second and third submarginals and 

 part of the third discoidal cells, a fuscous stain along the basal 

 nervure, stigma yellowish, nervures black; abdomen strongly 

 punctured, particularly veiitrally, pygidial area with strong punc- 

 tures, scarcely ridged laterally. Kiifous; anterior and posterior 

 orbits, the former narrowly, pronotum, greater part of mesopleune, 

 scutellum, post.scutellum, middle segment almo.«t entirely, s|M.)t on 

 medial and hind coxjc; dorsal segments of abdomen except extreme 

 base of second and the last usually, and greater part of ventrals 2-4, 

 or 5, all yellow; apical antennal joint** fii.ecous. I.«ngth 8.J-9 mm. 



S . — Colored like the 9 , except in the following points: clypeus, 

 mandibles, inner orbits broadly, sca[)e l)eneatli, dorsulum at sides, and 

 the leg.s, more or less, yellow; rufous on middle segment and abdomen 

 more extended. Fuscotis clouil reaching apex of wing; clypeus not 

 barbate laterally; antenme shorter and stouter, jointe of tiagellum 

 rounded beneath, 8-10 subemarginate; eyes very slightly converg- 

 ing beneath; enclosure of middle segment smaller than in 9 , with 

 about 14, rather feeble, .stri:e; mesosternum (|(*ntate laterally. 

 I^eugth 8 mm. 




528 PROCEKDINOS OK Tf[K ACADKMY OV [1895. 



Los Angeles, Califoniia (Coquillett). In collection U. S. !Nat'l 

 Musenni. 



14. Gorytes dentatus Fox. 



Goryfes den/a/us Vox, Cnu. Knt.. X .\ \ , i>. 1U>, ^^ . 



Grand Canon, Arizona (Townsend). This species has no yellow 

 on the middle segment, and the yellow markings of abdomen are 

 narrow, wanting entirely on three last segments. 



15. Gorytes pygidialis u. sp. 



$ . — Eyes diverging slightly toward clypeus; the latter scarcely 

 conve.x; front strongly punctured, with a strong central furrow; 

 scape al)out as long as the following two joints united, Hagellum 

 somewhat thickened apically, the fir.st joint about one- third longer 

 than the second; ilorsulum, mesopleune and middle segment with 

 large separated punctures, closest on posterior face of middle segment 

 who.-;e enclosure is scarcely defined, with about 16 coarse ridges; 

 me.'<opleura' indistinctly carinated, epimerum and episternum meso- 

 thoracis indistinctly separated; tibia' and tarsi strongly spinose, the 

 anterior tarsi with a distinct cond); wings clear, except the fu.scous 

 cloud which includes the marginal, upper portion of second and third 

 submarginuls, thence extending to the basal nervure bordering the 

 first submargiiud and first discoidal cells; abdomen strongly punc- 

 tured, pygidial area long and narrow, ridged laterally and with 

 large punctures. Black; clypeus in part or entirely, mandibles 

 except apex, scape more or less, inner and posterior orbits, basal 

 joints of flagellum beneath and sometimes above, line on pronotum, 

 tubercles, spot behind them, scutellura, postscutellum sometimes, 

 femora and tibia- in part, fascia at apex of segments 4-5, last segment 

 entirely or in part and apical margin of ventrals of 2 and 8, or 4, 

 more or less, yellow; tlie width of the fasciie varies somewhat; legs 

 reddish testaceous in greater part, l)asally obscure. Length 9-10 mm. 



Vak. — Antenna- reddish-yellow; dorsal segments of abdomen 

 except the ba.se of 1 and 2, entirely yellow; a small yellow spot on 

 each side of middle segment. 



$. — Eyes converging toward the clypeus but not strongly; 

 clypeus barbate laterally, transverse; joints 2-7 of flagellum tumid 

 beneath, the eighth and ninth submarginate; between the antenna' 

 a short, distinct carina; mesosternum distinctly (marinated, both 

 anterifjriy and at the sides. Length 8 mm. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHI LADKIJ'HIA . •>29 



Montana; Colorado (Snow); Las Cruces, New Mexico (Cockerell). 

 The 9 is very like costalis, but is smaller and has the last segment 

 yellow. If the <? of costalis, when discovered, presents no better 

 characters for distinction than those of the 9 , the two will probably 

 have to be united. 



16. Gorytes costalis Cress. 



Gorytes costalia Cres.soQ, Tr. -Vui. ICiit. Soc, IV, p. •.i2.'j, J . 



Texas; Algonquin (Nason) and Peoria, Illinois. A specimen from 

 St. Augustine, Florida (Johnson) has the leg.< entirely reddis^h 

 testaceous, only the two tifst seirnients margined with yellow and the 

 fuscous of the wings is nmch more extended than is usual. 1 am 

 indebted to Mr. Henshaw for the opportunity of examining the type 

 of this species. 



17. Gorytes hamatus IMI. 



(jorytes hamatus Uandlirsch, I. c, p. 40.3, $ , pi. 2, f. 17. 

 Gorytes maculatus Provancher, Le Xat. Can. XXII, p. 140. J . 



Texas (Belfrage); Colorado; Dakota; Montana; Wnshington 

 State; Nevada; Los Angeles, California (Coquillettj. This is a 

 variable species both in size and coloration. The middle segment is 

 sometimes bispotted, and the legs may be yellow and black or the 

 femora may be more or less reddish. The spine of the ninth antennnl 

 joint is much more distinct in some specimens than in others. 

 I^iCngth 7-9 mm. 



18. Gorytes microcephalus ildl. 



Gorytis >iiicioccplialus HiiiKllir>icli, 1. f., p. 40,=», ^ . 



Georgia (Handlirsch); Colorado. I have taken it in the hitter 

 part of June, in Camden County, New Jersey, Itnt not commonly. 



19. Gorytes Pergandei Ildl. 



Gnrytes Perffandfi HandlirKcli, 1. <•.. p. 407. ^ . 



Virginia and Illinois (Handlirr«cli ). I'nknown lo me. The 

 middle segment is said to be more coarsely sculptured |)o.>Hteriorly 

 than in its allitis, microcephnlns and harbafuluH, being "almost cica- 

 t ricoae. ' ' 



20. Gorytes nebulosus I'aok. 



<i<>rytfs )if/yi(li)<.u'i I'iiikiird. I'roi-, l'',iit. Soc, I'liiln.. \'I, p. 4"Jl, ^ . 



M lus-sach u setts (Park a rd ) ; New Jersey; Ceorgia. The front in 

 this species is fully as broatl as lung, and the pygidium is broader 

 than usual. 




^^0 PROCEEDINGS OK THE ACAPEMY OF [1895. 



21. Oorytes rugosus I'ack. 



<r'ori/ts >itoosus Packard, 1. c, p. 427, ^ . 



Brunswick, Maine ( Packard). Unknown t(j me. This will, no 

 (lonbt, eveutually prove to be the $ of ucbulosus. 



22. Gorytes armatus I'rov. 



(j'orrlts ainialiis Provaiicher, Add. Hyni. tiuol)fc, !>. 272, $ . 



Ottawa, Canada (Provancher). Unknown to nie. This species 

 is said to h:ive the mandibles spined near the base on "snperior" 

 maririn. The occurrence of such a character in (ionjfpn is question- 

 able ; and it is not unlikely tlmt Provancher has been misled by the 

 lateral bunches of hair, with wliicli theclypeus of the males of this sec- 

 tion is furnished, and which freijueutly present a waxy appearance, 

 thereby resemblintr a spine to some extent. The removal of this 

 character from consideration suggests the uniting of annatm with 



23. Gorytes barbatulus lldl. 



(royytes barhatuhis Handlirscli, 1. c.,, p. 408, $ . 



Illinois and Texas (Handlirsch); Agricultural College, Missis- 

 sippi rH. E. Weed); District of Columl)ia. The female specimens, 

 doubtfully referred to barbafnhs by Handlirsch, belong to denti- 



24. GorytiTS denticulatus Pack. 



Gorytes denticulaliis Packard, Proc. F>nt. 8oc.,Phila., VI, p. 430, J (non 9 )• 

 Gorytes barbatulus (in pt.) Handlir.sch, 1. c, p. 410, 9- 



Florida; Georgia; Ix)uisiana; Mexico. Handlirsch is right in 

 a.«suming Packard's type to be a $ , instead of a 9 , as I have ex- 

 amined the type. The middle segment may or may not be yellow- 

 spotted, and the first abdominal segment is sometimes variegated with 

 rufous. I have no doubt but that denticulatus is identical with 

 jjlaf'tdus, which I have not seen. 



25. Gorytes placidus Sm. 



Gorytes placidus .Smith, Cat. Hyni. B. M. IV, p. SHS, $ 9 , 

 Gorytes ruftfies Smith, ibid. p. 369, 9 • 

 Gorytes placidus Handlirsch, 1. c, p. 530. 



Ea.st Florida TSmith;. Unknown to me. I fully agree with 

 Handlirsch in uniting placidus and rvfipes. 



26. Gorytes spilopterus Ildl. 



Gorytes spilopterus Handlirscli, 1. c, p. 414, 9, pi. I. f. IS. 



Colorado; Nevada; Montana; Washington State. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENC'KS OK PHILADELPHIA. 531 



27. Gorytes piotifrons Fox. 



Dienoplua pictifrons Fox. Pruc. Actwl. Nat. Sci. rhilii.. 1893. p. 54M. 9 $ . 



Washiugtou State. Seems to differ only from mendicm by having 

 the enclosure of middle segment striated l)asally, a character liable 

 to vary. 



28. Gorytes mendicus Udl. 



Gorvles mendicus Handlirscli, Auu. k. k. naturh. Hiit'iinisciiins. \ 1 1 . \>. ".iTH. ^ . 



British Columbia ( Handlirsch). ruknown to me. 



29. Gorytes Coquillettii u. sji. 



9. — Eyes strongly converging towartl the clypeus ; the latter 

 rounded behind, its anterior maririn a little incurved ; front with 

 punctuation indistinct, apjiarently (coriaceous; antennn' short, tlagellum 

 clavate, the tir.>t and .-econ<l joints about e<|ual in ienirtii, sca|)f short 

 and i)ntad. ionirer, however, tlinii liie two followiiiL"^ joint.^ united; 

 dorsuluui and me^opleura- liiiuiy and clusely punctured ; !«uture be- 

 tween dorsulum and scutelluin fovcolate; inesosterniiin not ridged, the 

 epimerum and episternum mesothoracis .separated; middle segment 

 finely punctured, the enclosure large, well-defined and covered with 

 about 16, i>l)li<iUH «tri:e, the central furrow rather broad: legs stout, 

 tibiie and tarsi .spinose, the fore tarsi with a distinct cond); wings 

 clear throughout, iH;rvure8 and stigma black, sul)n)edian cell of hind 

 wings terminating at the origin of the cubital vein; abdomen 

 elongate, the segnjents not much constricted at the sutures^ indis- 

 tinctlv punctured, finely ><> ventrally, pygidium with strong punc- 

 tures, nnirgine<l at the sides. Black ; first three or four abdominal 

 segments more or le.s.s and hind femora, except base, reddish, 

 antetnia* beneath, clv|>eus, labrum, mandibles except apex, line 011 

 pronotum, tuljercles, spot on scutellum, spot at a|)ex of tore and 

 medial femora, short stri[>e on the medial and hind tibi:e exteriorly, 

 two transverse spots on apical nnirgin of the first abdominal segment 

 an<l a long, sinuate stripe on each side of the apical margin of seg- 

 ments 'J-4, whitish-yellow; tarsi dark : front and dorsulum brownish 

 tomentose, that on civpeus, sides t)f thorax and in particidar the 

 midflle segment, silvery. lyength 7 mm. 



F/)« .Angeles, < -alifornia, in .\pril ('(Vxpiillett;. In culleclioii of 

 U. S. Nat'l Mu.«eiini. 




532 pRocKBDiKae of the acadkmy of [1890. 



30. Oorytes insolitui n. sp. 



(f.-Heail nitluT large; eyea couvergiug toward the elypeus; the 

 latter large, most prominent anteriorly, anterior margin truncate, 

 not barbate, front Hiiely and closely punctured, without a median 

 impressed line; antenna- tolerably stout, ilagellum with joints 2-9 

 tuberculate beneath, particularly the sixth joint, from which joint 

 the rta^'ellum is suddenly thickened ; scape short triangular; thorax 

 finely and closely punctunnl. most strongly on mesopleur:v; meta- 

 pleurie striated; suture between dorsulum and scutellum foveolate; 

 mesosternum ridged anteriorly; enclosure of middle segment large, 

 well defined, the stria- coarse, not well marked ; hind tarsi thick, 

 scarcely spiued, fore tarsi somewhat flattened; wings clear through- 

 out, uervures and stigma black, submediau cell of hind wing.« 

 terminating a little before the origin of cubital vein; abdomen short 

 and broad, not constricted at the segments, finely punctured ; ventrals 

 3_5 with a prominent transverst- fringe of appres.sed yellow hair, 

 last ventral bitid. Black ; cly|)eus, labrum, mandibles except apex, 

 spot between antennic, sonietihies wanting however, inner orbits, 

 scape, Hairellum beneath, line on prouotum, tubercles, a spot behind 

 them, scutellum, dot on postscutellum, apex of femora more or less, 

 tibire except within, fore and medial tarsi except last joint, a fascia 

 at apex of segments 1-6, twice emarginate anteriorly and enlarged 

 laterally, and apical margin of .second ventral in part, sometimes, 

 all yellowish; middle segment with silvery pubescence ; hind tarsi 

 dark. Length 6 mm. 



Southern California; Nevada. The small size, stout form, and 

 shape of antennse easily distinguish this species. 



31. Gorytes gracilis Patt. 



Hoplisus gracilis Patton, Can. Ent., XI, p. 210, 9 • 

 Gorytes gracilis Handlirsch, 1. c, p. 456, 9 $ • 



Conuecticut (Patton) ; Georgia (Handlirsch). Unknown to me. 



32. Gorytes mirandus Vox. 



Gorytes mirandus Fox, Can. Ent., XXIV, p. 152, $ . 

 Nevada. 



33. Gorytes laminiferus n. sp. 



$ . — Eyes but little converging toward elypeus the latter con- 

 vex, rather small, transverse; front with large, shallow punctures; 

 antennse long, scape \)r(>n(i, a little shorter than the following two 

 joints united, Hagellum thickest between middle and apex, first joint 




1895.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OK PHILADELPHIA. 



533 



longer than the second, joint 8 excised beneath, joints 9 and 10 much 

 smaller, also excised beneath, the ninth indistinctly so, lastjoint rather 

 long and slender; dorsulum and me.-^()i»leur;f with large, rather 

 .shallow punctures; inesosternum carinated laterally and anteriorly: 

 epimeruin and episteruum mesothoracis distinctly separated; middle 

 segment posteriorly cicatricose, its enclosure very strongly defined, 

 the Htri;t' coarse and rather irregular ; legs long, tibiie and tarsi 

 spinose, ton- femora t'oimed into a broad lamina : wings yellowish, 

 including nervures and stigma, submedian cell of posterior wings 

 terminating at the origin ol' the cubital vein ; abdomen with first 

 segment long and narrow, subpetiolate as in iiiirdiiilu.i, apical 

 segments distinctly punctured, last ventral segment bifid. Black; 



antenna.' entirely and i)ase of wings 

 rufous; (•lv[)eu8, inner and posterior 

 orbit.-, face below anteinue, labrum, 

 mandibles except apex, line on pro- 

 notum, tubercles, long 8jx>t behind 

 them, scutellum, postscutolluni, S]X)t 

 on each side of middle st-gment, and 

 a broad fascia at apex of dorsal seg- 

 ments 1-H and ventrals 2-4, entirely yellow ; last two vcntrals 

 reddish; legs variegated with reddish, yellow and black, abdomen 

 tomentose. Length 1 1 mm. 



Washington State. .\pparcntly close to ijnivi/l.i, but differs in the 

 enclosure of middle seirnient being striated throughout, coarse punct- 

 ures of dorsulum. yellow wings, etc. Handiirsch docs not mention 

 the anterior femora in his des(Tiption of the <? of (/nirillK, and it is 

 therefore likely that they are not laminate as in iniraiidiiK and 

 /aminiferii'<. 



34. Gory tea atrifrons Vox. 



(ioryles atrifrons Fox. Can. Knt., XXIV, p. 151, 9 $ . 



Nevada. 



Via. '.'. Kore femur, (roifflt'x 

 laminiferus. 



35. Gorytes alboaignatus Id.v. 



(rorylr^ jlhosigna/u^ Knx., i)ii<l, p. Li'J, 9 cf ■ 



Montana: Colorado ((JillettC). The specimen from the latter 

 locality, a 9 , measures but 7 mm. The basal spot of «'lypeus is 

 sometiraea divided. 




534 PROCEEDlNdS *^\- I'lIK ACAPEMY OF [1895. 



36. Gorytes geminus lldl. 



Gorylts x'^frninris HnudWncU. \. v.. \). ilH, <^ ^. 



Vifiriuia (Handlirsch). Unknown tome. The Hagellum in both 

 sexes is said to hv entirely black, the 9 tli^s being distingiiiHhed 

 from l)Oth atricoiiiln and caiialiculaini<. The i has the Hagellum 

 joint.« about twice as long as broad, in which it agrees with raiiall- 

 citlatux, but differs thereby from atriconiix $ . G. canaliciilatm^ 

 ( $ ) has the tlagelliun beneatii and two spots on middle segment 

 yellow, whereas in ifeiiiinii!< these parts are said to be black. 



37. Gorytes vioinus Udl. 



(iorrles :itiiius Handlirscli. Ann. k. k.natnih. Hofnmseuni.s, VIII. p. :i7!), 9 • 



Washington State ( Handlirs(•h^ Unknown to me. It is evi- 

 dently close to africoriiis: but the wings are said to he strongly 

 tinged with yellow. 



38. Gorytes atricornis I'ack. 



Gorytes atritornis Packanl, I'loc Knt. Soc. Phila.. VI. p. 428, J $. 

 Canada: Maine: New Hampshire: Ma.ssachusetts ; Washington 

 State: Nevada. The middle segment iiuiy or may not be spotted. 



39. Gorytes canalioulatus i'ack. 



(ioryles lanaliculaliis Packard, ibid., \\. 428,9 • 



Canada. The flagellum of the $ is shorter than in atricornis 

 and is yellowish beneath, and the enclosure of middle segment has 

 15-16 even striaj. 



40. Gorytes asperatus 11. ,sp 



9 . — Eyes toward the clypeus distinctly converging, about as in 

 runalicnlatii.'<; .scape short, stout, subtriangular, about as long as the 

 following two joints united; flagellum evidently a little clavate 

 [last .seven joints missing], the first joint about one-third longer than 

 the .second : clypeus rather long, transverse, feebly convex, its 

 posterior margin nearly straight ; front finely and closely punct- 

 ured, faintly impressed, thora.x finely and closely punctured, suture 

 between dorsulum and scutellum foveolate; mesosteruum sharply 

 ridged; middle .segment coarsely rugose, except on the sides near the 

 base, enclosure large, strongly marked, covered with irregular rugic; 

 legs stout, com!) of fore tarsi distinct; basal two-thirds of wings 

 yellowish, marginal cell fuscous, nervines dark, stigma yellow, sul)- 

 median cell of hind wings terminating beyond the origin of the 

 cubital vein; abdomen rather short and broad, finely punctured, 




1895.] NATURAL SCIKN(l->; <>K PHILADELPHIA. 535 



Hret segment not striated hasally, pyeidial area triangular, indis- 

 tinctly margined at the sides, with large, sparse punctures. Black ; 

 clypeus except fore margin, lahrum, mandibles except ajiex, inner 

 orbits, antenna; beneath, line on pronotum, tubercles, spot behind 

 them, scutelluni, line on metanotum ( postscutellum), small spot on 

 each side of middle segment, femora at ape.x and anterior pair 

 beneath, tibise except a spot within, tarsi except apical joints, a 

 broad fascia on dorsal abdominal segment.s 1-5, and a spot on the 

 apical margin of second ventral laterally, which at the extreme sides 

 is enlarged and runs toward the ba.se of the segment, all vellow. 

 Ijength 8 mm. 



i . — Similar to the 9 »« t'^e coloration, but the Hagellum entirely 

 black ; eyes large .=«trongly converging iowar<l the clypeus, the space 

 between them at the base of the latter about equal to half that at the 

 vertex ; clyjieus but little shorter than broad ; Hagellum stout, a 

 little thickened apically. the joint.s 'first two excepted; about twice 

 iis long as broad, last joint a little longer than the preceding one; 

 tibiai and tarsi scarcely spinose, hind tarsi thickened ; wings but 

 slightly yellowish basally: greater part of ventral segments vellowish. 

 lyength 7—X mm. 



Southern California. Distinguished from cfwaHnilaimt by the 

 yellowish wings, particularly in the female, irregular sculpture of 

 enclosure of middle segment, and much broader eyes of male, which 

 give the head, seen from the front, a very transverse shape. There 

 are four S specimens before me from Washington State which 

 I refer doubtfully to this species. The yellow markings are more 

 restricted, there being no yellow on the tubercles and middle seg- 

 ment. The markings, also, are a paler yellow. 



41. Oorytei decorus n. sp. 



9 • — Eyes converging toward the clypeus, but a little leas strongly 

 BO than in the two preceding species; front finely and closelv punct- 

 ured; cly|)euH transverse, somewhat convex, with large punctures; 

 antenn:)- tolerably long, not tiiickened apically, scajx' elongate, about 

 MS long as the first joint of the fl:tgellum, the latter joint scarcely 

 one-third longer than the second : thorax shining, indistinctly punct- 

 ured; mesosternum diutinctly carinated, the epimerum and epi- 

 sternum mesothoracis separated; suture between dorsulum and 

 scutellum fuveolate; middle segment irregularly ruuose posteriorly, 




'T36 PROCEKOINGS ok rHK AC'ADKMY OK [1895. 



the enclosure laif;e, well delineil, :ind covered witli alxmt 12 strong, 

 somewhat wavystriie; tihia- and tarsi spiiiose; wings siihhyaline, the 

 marginal cell excepted, nervures brownish, stigma yellowish, suh- 

 mediau cell of posterior wings terminating much beyond the origin 

 of the cubital vein ; abdomen shining, almost impunctate, first 

 segment not striated basally, pygidial area Hat, rounded at apex, 

 distinctly margined laterally, strongly punctured. Black ; base of 

 clvpeus, scape beneath, sometime." a small spot on inner orbits 

 beneath, pronotum. tubercles, a spot behind them, a stripe bordering 

 the dorsulum laterally, scutellum, spot on metanotum, large spot on 

 each side of middle segment, a fascia at apex of dorsal segments 1-5 

 and a narrow one at apex ol' ventrals 2 and -S or 4, yellow; legs 

 except base testaceous, the fore and medial femora more or less 

 yellow beneath; basal half of Hagellum beneath of the same color as 

 legs, which color sometimes extends to the upper portion. Length 

 8 mm. 



$ . — Colored like the 9 , but the clypeus entirely yellow and the 

 flagellum entirely black; eyes strongly converging beneath, the space 

 between them at the base of clypeus equal to somewhat more than 

 half of that at the vertex ; clypeus about twice as broad as long in 

 the middle ; Hagellum long, somewhat setaceous, the joints more than 

 twice as long as broad, the first two joints about equal in length; 

 hind tarsi less thickened than in asperahis. l^ength 7-^ mm. 



Montana. The color of legs, large spots of middle segment and 



almost want of yellow on orbits are good superficial characters to 



separate ihcnnm from its allies. 



42. Gorytes simillimus .Sm. 



Goryles simillimus Smith, Cat. Hym. B. M.. IV. p., 367, 9 . 

 Gorytes ephippiatus Packard. Proc. Ent. Soc. Phila.. VI. p. 423, $ . 

 Gor^'tes siviillimus Handlirsch. 1. c. p. .500. 9 $ ■ 



Occurs from Canada to Georgia (Handlirsch j, westward through 

 the more northern States to Washington. The spots on middle 

 segment are not constant. A 9 specimen from New Jersey, col- 

 lected in the latter part of June, I refer to simiUi iiias doubtfully. 

 Its legs are highly colored with yellow and reddish, mandibles with 

 a yellow spot basally, and the furrow between the mctapleurse and 

 middle segment is foveolate throughout, whereas in typical speci- 

 mens the foveae are confined to the top. • Another specimen, a i , 

 from Washington State has the enclosure of middle segment striated 

 throughout. 




1895.] NATITRAI, SCIENCES OF PHir-ADEI-PHIA. 537 



43. Gorytes angustus Prov. , 



Gorytes laticinclus Provancher (nee Shuckard), Add. Hyni. Quebec, p. 274, $ . 

 Gorytes angustus Provancher, Le Nat. Can., XXII, p. 141. 9 • 



Vancouver (Provancher); Waahiugtou; California; Nevada. A 

 variable species as to size and coloration. The abdomen in two( 9 ) 

 dpecimeus before me is densely toniento!:3e so that when held in cer- 

 tain lights, its maculation is almost concealed. 



44. Gorytes nevadensis Fox. 



Gorytes nevadensis Fox, Can. Knt.. XXIV, p. 150, 9 $ . 



Nevada. 



46. Gorytes venustus Cress. 



Gorytes vennsttis Cresson. Proc. Ent. Soc. Phila.. IN', p. 472, 9 $ . 

 Hoplisiis venustus Cresson, Synopsis, p. 280. 

 Gorytes Z'cnustus Haudlirscli, 1. v.. p 504. 



Colorado; Texas: New Mexico fSante F6, Cockerell;; Mexico 

 ( Handlir.^ch >. 



46. Gorytes Smithii Cress. 



Gorytes Smithii Cresson, Proc. Ent. Sect., k. N. S. Pliila.. I8H0, p. 18, $ 



(non 9 ) (Tr. -Vni. Ent. .Soc. VIII). 

 Hoplisus Smithii, Cresson. Synopsis, p. 2ho. 

 Gorytes Smithii Handlirsch, I. c, p. 531. 



Illinois; Kansa-s. The type of this species is a (J , anti not 9 

 as stated hy Cre.ison. 



47. Gorytes floridanus Fox. 



Hoplisus Joveulatj Fo.\ (nee Handlirsch). Ent. News. I, \>. 106, 9. 

 Gorytes floridanus Fox. ibid., II.. p. 198. 



Florida. The eyes converge less toward the clypeus in this spe- 

 cies til an in Sntifhil. 



48. Gorytes phaleratus .Say. 



Gorytes phalcnitus Say, Host. Jourii. Nat. Hist., 1, p. Ml. 



Gorytes fulvipennis Smith. Cat. Hym. B. M., IV. p. 367. 9 . 



Gorytes apualis .Sniitli. ibid., p. :}61(, 9 . 



Gorytes modestus Oc.s.son. Proc. Ent. Soc. Pliila.. IV, p XTA. ^ . 



Gorytes ru/nluteus Packard, ibi<l.. VI, p. 425, $ 9 • 



Gorytes flai'icornis I'ackard. ibid., p. 429, $ 9- 



Gor^'tes phaleratus lian<llirscli, I. c. p. 507, 9 <J • 



Occurs troni ( 'aiiada In Tcxits and Mexico; Colurado: Dakota. 

 .■\ variable specie's as the .svnonvniy indicates. 



49. Gorytes propinqaas CroHh 



Gorytes proptni/uus Crejison, Tr. Am. Ent. Soc. 1. p. 379. ^ inon 9 ). 

 Gorytes abdiimiualis Handlirsch. I. c, p. 510 



New Mexico; Texaw. Not identii-al with aluloDiina/ig an uup- 



po8e<l by Handlirsch. 




538 PKOCKKIMNOS <•!■ IKK .VCAI>KMY OK [1895. 



50. Oorytes abdominalis ('res.s. 



(•or \ Its i.i/>i/<i»iiiiti/is Crcssoii, I. c. |>. 474. ^ f . 

 Hof>lisns abtiouiiimlis C'res.son, Synopsis, p. 27S». 

 (worries ahiiomhijlis naii(Ilirsc)i, 1. r., p. ■'>l(i. 



Colorado. 



51. Oorytes bipartitus Hdl. 



(•<>>rlt-s luf>j>iili(S. Haiullirsch, 1. c. p. .")SJ1. 



Georgia. 



52. Oorytes divisus Sm. 



(iorylts (iii'isus Sinitli. (':it;il. llyiii. U. M. IV. p. ;J7(». ^ . 



Georgia (Smithj. riiknown to me. This differs only tVuiii />/- 

 jxirfifns, apparently, by the suture between dorsuluni and scutelluiii 

 being smooth, not foveolate. It is very likely, however, as sug- 

 gested by Handlir?rh. that Smith's statement is erroneous. 



53. Oorytes rufomaculatus n. sp. 



9 . — Eves strongly converging toward the clypeus, somewhat less 

 80 than in hipntiitut, however ; front with large punctures, strongly 

 impressed down the middle; clypeus convex, strongly punctured, 

 about one-quarter broader than long, snbemarginate in middle of 

 anterior margin ; anteinife shorter than in bipartitva, the flagellum 

 subclavate : thorax smooth, impunctate ; mesosternum distinctly 

 carinated; suture between dorsuluni and scutellum foveolate; en- 

 closure of middle segment broad and short, well marked and 

 divided by a longitudinal furrow ; suture between metapleurje and 

 middle segment not foveolate; legs robust, tibise and tarsi spinose ; 

 wings clear, except the marginal cell, nervures testaceous, stigma 

 yellow, submcdian cell of hind wings terminating much beyond the 

 origin of the cubital vein; abdomen short and broad, first segment 

 impunctate, the following segments distinctly punctured, pygidial 

 area rather long, coansely punctured and distinctly margined later- 

 ally. Black ; base of clypeus, inner orbits, line on pronotuni, 

 tubercles, spot behind them, scutellum except base. And a fascia at 

 apex of dorsal segments 1-3, yellow; antenme, legs, large spot on 

 each side of middle segment, small spot on dorsulum at wings, tegulse 

 and the first abdominal segment at the sides, rufous. Length 

 9-10 mm. 



S . — Colored like the 9 , but the clypeus entirely, a fascia on 

 abdominal segraeuti* 4 and 5, and the fore tarsi, yellow ; clypeuB 

 nearly as long as broad; antennae shorter than in bipartitus, flagellum 




1895.] NATI'KAI, SCIRNCK- ol- TH II.ADKLPH F A. 039 



with joints not roinided-out as in that species, the last 6 or 7 joints 

 not twice a? long a.s broad ; seventh dorsal segment distinct, broad, 

 ronnded at apex ; liind tarsi somewhat thickened. Ijength H mm. 



Dakota; Montana: ( olorado (Gillette). 

 54. Gorytes fasciatus n. sp. 



<? . — Eyes strongly converging toward the clypeus; the latter 

 convex, distinctly broader than long ; front .-strongly punctured, 

 with a medial impressed line; antentuc much longer than in /»/(<- 

 inafiilnt n.-<, '](m\t>^ of Hagelluni cylindrical, rather long ; thorax im- 

 punctate ; raesosternum distinctly carinated ; suture between dor- 

 sulum and scutelluni foveolate ; enclosure of middle segment well- 

 marked: suture between metapleifrie and middle segment foveolate 

 al)Oveonly. an<l isdee|)er than in nifnmaciihifn'^: legs tolerably robust; 

 wings yellowish on basal two-thirds; fuscous in marginal cell only, 

 submedian cell of hind wings terminating much beyond the origin of 

 cubital vein: abdomen long, dorsals 1 and 2 impunctate, the remain- 

 der strongly punt-turetl. seventh dorsal distinct, rounded apically. 

 Black; clypeus, inner orbits, face l)elow antenna-, labrum, mandibles 

 except apex, scape and pcdicelluni, line on pronotum, tubercles, 

 spot behind them, scutellum posteriorly, spot on each side of middle 

 degment. fore femora beneath, tibiu' and tarsi more or less, a broad 

 fascia on dorsal abdominal segments 1-H, on ventrals 2 and 3 and 

 s|)ot (ui each side of ventrals 4-6, bright yellow : liasal joints of Ha- 

 gelluin. teguhe and greater part of legs, reddish. I.*ngth 10 mm. 



Colorado. Differs from tiie two preceding in the yellowish wings, 

 yellow sjX)t8 on middle segment, l)road fascia of abdomen, and by 

 the suture between metapleunc and middle segment being foveolate 

 above. 




540 HKOCBKUINOS OK I'HE ACAUKMV OK [1896. 



December 3. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the Chair. 

 Forty- six persons present. 



'Trap Dykes in Che$ter County, Fennsylvania. — Theo. D. Kand 

 stated that two important trap dykes in Chester County liad seemed 

 almost to have escaped notice. One of these, a peculiar porphyry, 

 described by Mr. Goldsmith as containing the variety of silica, 

 vestan, is best shown in Williams' quarry, near Aldham, on the 

 Phoenixville branch ot the Pennsylvania Railroad. It extends 

 thence in a northeastwardly direction with a width of about 100 ft. 

 It is not apparent to the westw'ard, but a rock which Mr. Goldsmith 

 has pronounced identical occurs near Barnestou Station on the 

 Waynesburg branch of the Pennsylvania Railroad. Some masses 

 of this rock have a loud and clear ring when struck, as shown in 

 specimens exhibited to the Academy by Mr. Borden. 



The other dyke forms a bluff" on the right bank of the Brandy - 

 wine, almost in Downingtown, and perhaps 500 ft. north of the bridge 

 which carries' the Lancaster Turnpike over the creek. It is again 

 exposed on the Pennsylvania Railroad just above the station, and 

 again much more largely a quarter of a mile further west, where on 

 the south side it is exposed for a depth of nearly thirty feet. Thence 

 it may be traced by fragraentr< up the South Valley hill for prob- 

 ably five hundred feet in a general S. S. W. direction. About two 

 miles .southwest, near the source of Broad Run and nearly north of 

 Romansville, it again appears, but no outcrop between could be 

 found. In the same direction, about two miles further, it appears at 

 Mortonville, on the right bank of the west branch of the Brandy- 

 wine. Three-quarters of a mile further, at the croi^sing of Buck 

 Run bv the old road from Mortonville to Doe Run, it is exposed in 

 large loose masses. A mile beyond it appears south of Doe Run 

 village and thence southwestward is almost or quite continuous, 

 being in vast quantity southwest of the Marlborough Hall School- 

 house. It is crossed by the Pomeroy and Newark Railroad at the 

 southwestern part of tlie S curve near the source of thef^outh branch 

 of Doe Run. Here it looks almost like cobblestones, to so great a 

 <legree has boulder decomposition occurred. Three miles beyond, it 

 was found bv Mr. Harry Wilson, of Green Tree, to whom my ac- 

 knowledgments are due for much aid in tracing this dyke. Fur- 

 ther southwest in Penn and Lower Oxford townships are several 

 trap outcrops, some of them included by Prof. H. Carvill Lewis 




1895.] NATIKAI, SCIKNCKS OF PH I (,A DFr.I'H I A . 541 



iu the Conahohockeu dyke, but they had not yet been identified with 

 this dyke. 



Thi.s trap is quite coarse grained and is ijuite similar in its aspect 

 throughout its whole extent, though coarsest to the northwest. It 

 was examined by Mr. Goldsmith (specimens from the outcrop on 

 Buck Run), who iritbrmed Mr. Rand that it is a gabbro-phonolite, 

 containing as it does plagioclastic feldspar, sanidin augite, diallage. 

 magnetite and hematite. 



December 10. 

 The President, (if:NERAi. I.saac J. Wistak, in the Chair 

 Forty-four persons present. 

 The death of Samuel G. Lewis, a memlter, wa.s announced. 



December 17. 

 The President, Generai- Isaac J. WrsTAK. in the ('hair. 

 Thirty-one persons present. 



PajKjrs under the following titles were presented tor ]»ubli(atioii : — 

 " Eclogie Botanica', No. 2," by Edw. L. (ireene. 

 '• Notes on the .*^fu<lv of the C'ro>s-I<Vrtili/:iliini of Flowers li\ 

 Insects," by Ida A. Keller, Ph.D. 



The Committee on the Havden Memorial Award reported a> 

 follows :-- 



Report ok the Committee o.n riiK H.\vi>i:n Mk.mouiai. Awaki>. 



The (k)mn!ittee on the award of the Hayden .Memorial Medal 

 and accompanying fund respectfully rejKjrts, that, at a meeting held 

 on the 4th of December last, it was unanimouHly agreed to confer the 

 award for the year 1 M95, upon Prof. Kari. Alfred von Ziitei. 

 of Munich, (iermany, whose .services to the sciences of geology an*l 

 pale<jntology extend continuously over a jwriod of thirty years. 



In naming tills candidate the Committee feels that it is honoring 

 the sciences t)f which Prof, von Zittel is .xo distinguishe*! an exponent, 

 and only properly recogniy.e.>< the resear<;he» which appeal to every 

 student of geology. 



Born in 1839, Prof von Zitlel was, at the age of iwenty-tbur, ap- 

 pointed to the Professorship of Mineralogy at KarUruhe, and three 




<t42 1'K(>("KKI>IN(1S <»l llli; ACAOKMY OK [1895. 



years later to the Professorship of l^aleontology at the University (if 

 Munich, a }>o8itioii, jointly with that of Director of the Paleoiito- 

 logical Museum, which he still holds. His published works cover a 

 large range of i)er8onal investigation, not the least important of 

 which are the researches into the structure and pjiysiography of the 

 Libyan Desert and the Sahara. His monumental work, " Hand- 

 l)uch der Paliiontologie," which has only recently been completed, 

 stands without rival in the literature of geology. 



For this meritorious work the Conmiittee respectfully recomnieud 

 the award. 



Persifor Frazer, 

 Angelo Heilprin, 

 Benj. Smith Lyman, 

 J. P. Lesley, 

 Theo. D. Rand. 



Committee. 



December 24. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-eight persons present. 



December 31. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the Chair. 

 Two hundred and seventy-three persona present. 

 The following were ordered to be printed : — 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'HU,ADEI^PHIA. 543 



CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE FLORA OF GREENLAND. 

 HY rilKd. HOLM. 



There is hardly any part of the arctic region that has l)een more 

 thoroiig-hly explored by hotHiiista than ihe narrow strip of land 

 which cDiistitiites the west coast of Greenland, bordering on the 

 inland ice. 



NunieroiiM expeditious, especially from Denmark and Sweden, 

 have visited the country, and the literature upon this subject 

 •rives us a relatively complete knowledge of the distribution of a 

 large nund)er of plants in addition to notes on the general character 

 <jf the vegetation. It is true, however, that the vegetation of several 

 places, especially on the northern f>art of the coast, is still alnio.st 

 unknown to us. Explorations of late date have contributed to ex- 

 tend our knowledge of these more or less inaccessible localities, and 

 the material collected is, therefore, of great importance. Interest 

 attaches to two American expeditions to the northwestern coast. 

 Cape York. Wostenholm Island. McCorniick Bay, etc., localities 

 which were either unknown or had so far only been slightly touched 

 upon by botanists. 



.Mr. Wm. E. Meehan has re|)orted' on the results of these ex- 

 peditions, extending considerably the range of several plant.s. He 

 ha,s enumerated the various plants collected, and several rare s|»ecies 

 are rc-onlcd. A set of" the duplicates was presented to the Natioiuil 

 Herbarium at Washington, and they have been studied by me with 

 great interest, because of my own exploration of the coa.»it of (Ireen- 

 larid. 



Some of .\Ir. .Meehan's identifications are incorrect, and I tlieri'- 

 fore present the following note.»< in the hope of contributing to the 

 accuracy of the results. The corrections are nierelv a supplement 

 to Mr. .Meehan s pa|>er. 



It is staled that Pri/nM nclofuht/a, ueW U> I'li/imii, i.» perlmp.s the 



' .\ <)<iiitril>iitiiiii lo tin- Kloni •<( < tp-i-iilHinl. I'nx-i-i-H. .\i-hi|. of .Nut. S<'i. 

 l'hilR<l«>lphia. .\pril. Immv. 




'^44 PROCREDINOS OF THK ACADEMY OF [1896. 



commonest Hower in Greenland. The plant sent to the National 

 Herbarium represents D. iuteijrifolui Vahl, not D. odopetala, of 

 which, so far, hut a very few .specimens have been collected on the 

 we.«t coast liv former expeditions.' 



Other corrections are as follows: — 



Ranunculus pygimtuit Wahl. is R. hijperboreus Rottb. 



Draha hirta L. from Discu is D. uirtica Vahl. 



Draba hirta L. from the Nunatak is D. nivalis Liljeb. 



Cochlearia officinalis L. is C. (jroenlandica L. 



Sfetlariti hucjipex Goldie is iS'. humlfitsa Rottb. 



Potentilla pulchelln B. Br. is J\ Vahlianu Lehm. 



Saxifraga nivalis L. was mixed with S. rivularis L. 



S. steUaris L. is the arctic variety comosa Poir. 



Engeron unijiorus L. is the variety pulchellus Fr. 



Vaccinium idiginoxinn L. is the arctic variety microphyllum Lge. 



Pijrola rntundifolia L. is P. gronalandicn Horn. 



Salix arctica R. Br. is S. glauca L. 



Luzula arcuata Mey. is L. confusa Liudeb. 



Eriophonuii polystachyon L. var. latifolium is E. angustifolium 

 Roth. 



Carex utrafa L. is ('. inimndra R. Br. 



Poa nemoralis L. is P. glanca Vahl. 



Poa pratensis L. is P. Jiexaosa Wahlbg. 



Trisetum sesquifioruin Triu. is T. sabspicatum Beau v. 



Calamagroxfi.i Lu/iyMorffii is C phnigmitoides Hn. 



Woodsia ilvensis Br. is W. kyperburea R. Br. 



Several other species enumerated by Mr. Meehan seem doubtful, 

 but there are no specimens of these in the collection sent to the 

 National Herbarium. 



Lychnis apetala L. is evidently L. trijiorn R. Br. or L. affinis 

 Vahl ; as it is stated by Mr. Meehan that the specimens had from 

 one to six flowers. 



>-Conius canadensis L. lias never befoi"e l)een found in Greenland, 

 but we suggest that the specimens represent C. suecica L., a plant 

 which is not uncommon in that region. 



Campanula rotandijolia L. is probably the variety arcfica Lge. 



Pedicularis capitata Adam.s, is noted from Disco. It has so far 



' Compare .Joliaa I>ange : Conspectus Florie (iroenlandicse. Copeuhafjen, 1880. 




1895.] xATfRAr. sriENCES of philapklphia. 545 



onlv been found near Foulkefjord ^78° 18' ), 80 that the identification 

 seems doubtful. 



The same is the case witii Peflicnlans rer-ficolor Wahl., which ip 

 not known from Greenland : it may have been confounded with P. 

 flammea L. . which is quite conmion. 



Abies nbovata T>oud. is evidently a misprint. 



Glycerin fluitatvi is al!>o doubtful. It has never oefore been 

 observed in Greenland, although there are several other species of 

 Glyceria quite frequent in various places. 




•^4fi PROCBEDINOS <»K I UK ACADBMY OF [1896. 



ECLOG^ BOTANICJE, NO. 2. 

 KV K1)\VAK1> I>. t^RKKNK. 



1. 8(>MK Nkw We(stkkn Plants. 



Trifolium truncatum. 



r. amplectens Ureeue, I'itt. I. •}, not ol'Toir. auil Uray. 

 T. slenopiiylluvt Greene, Fl. Fr., 34, partly, not of Nntt. 

 T. Frauciscaniim var. truncatum Greene, Man.. 100. 



Annual, o to 10 inches hii^h, branching from the ha.se, slender, 

 riaccid when young, the branches and peduncles wiry in age; herbage 

 vivid green and glabrous: lowest leaflets broadly cuneiform and 

 truncate, Ie.-<s than ] inch long, the upper larger and amplei', 1 inch 

 long, oblong-cuneiform or oblong-linear, truncate or obtuse, often re- 

 tuse, not manifestly venulose, sparingly toothed : very slender 

 ])cdunc]es exceeding the leaves : heads subglobose, about \ inch in 

 diameter when nuiture : corolla yellowish-white, tip})ed with dark 

 purple, the tube at length inflated to the broadly obpyramidal and 

 truncate, except as abruptly pointed by the withered remains of the 

 tips of the petals. 



This, one of the most common clovers of the middle California 

 inland districts, I was long unable to believe to be an unrecognized 

 species; and, as the bibliography shows, I have made re|)eated efforts 

 to recf)ncile it with one and another of tlie poorly described species 

 of Nuttall. Then, at last, in the Mainud of Biii/-lit'</i<m Botany, I 

 made it a part — a named variety — of what I thought must be a new 

 species; but, within a few months from the time of publishing T. 

 Fravcisraniiiu, I was privileged to see, in the Herbarium of the 

 British Museum, the tyi>e specimen of Nuttall's T. sfenophylliini ; 

 and I was surprised to discover, in that type, just what I had taken 

 as the type of my own T. Fruncixcaniun. From that type, a common 

 species of the .seaboard districts, the present plant is very distinct. 

 The name tnuwafum is adopted for the species in allusion to the very 

 broad and flat- topped l)laddery-inflated corolla-tube, rather than to 

 the form of the leaflets, which, however, are very commonly truncate 

 also. 




1895.] NATt'RAI. SCIENCES OF PHILADEI-PHIA. 547 



Trifolium lilaoinum. 



Annual, Haccid, the eiect or merely deeiiniheut branches 6 to 10 

 inches high : herbage apparently glabrous, but the growing parts 

 more or less hirsutulou? under a 1(Mis: lowest leaflets obovate, the 

 upjier oblong, or elliptic-lanceolate, minutely spinulose-serrulate : 

 peduncles elongated, tar surpassing the leaves and somewhat scapi- 

 form : hemispherical and amply involucrate heads :{ inch broad; 

 involucre of 8 or 10 oltovate broad and somewhat overJapping 

 laciniately cleft lobes; sub\ilate-setaceous and plumose calyx- teeth 

 about as long as the carapanulate thin and scarious n-uerved tube: 

 corolla •> inch long, of a rich deej) lilac- purplo tipped with pink or 

 white. 



A most beautiful ally of T. barbiijenun, and of apparently quite 

 limited range; l)ut it is common on the lower slopes of one or two 

 hills at South San Fraiiciscn (':il., ;mii has been collected once by 

 .Mr. Bioletti and <jiice by myself on the eastern side of the l)ay still 

 further southward. 

 Trifolium rostratum. 



Annual, glabrous, very slender, diffuse, dwarf, the branches only 

 2 or 8 inches long: stipules rounded, spreading, laciniate : very 

 slender petioles elongated; leaflets cuneate-obcordatc, only I inch 

 long, evenly and acutely serrate-toothed : peduncles exceeding the 

 leaves; involucre small but manifest, about 4 or 5 lines wide, lobed and 

 laciniate: head less than !• inch broad, rather few- flowered : caly.x- 

 teeth longer than the subcampanulate tube, oblong-ovate, tapering 

 to a rigid aristiform apex : corolla purple, tipped with white, the 

 keel with a long beak-like apex at least a third as long as the body. 



.\ species of quite remarkable floral strui^ure, collected only by 

 .Mr. V. K. Chestnut, at Lake Merritt, Oakland, ( 'alifornia, 1 HS() ; 

 at that time referred by me (Fl. Fr.. '50;, with much hesitation, to 

 T. nppi niliriihiliiiii. 



Boisduvalia diffusa. 



Much branched tVum the lias*-, ilic sU-ndcr, wirv, white iind -liin- 

 ing 8|)nringly leafy branches m t<> i 'finches long, very decumbent or 

 almost prr>strate, and, with the leaves, sparsely hirtcllous when 

 voung, mosilv glabratc in age: the scattt-red leaves, ovate ami 

 oblong-ovate, and ovate-lanceolate, I to | inch long, all .-^es^ih', and 

 all, even the lowest as well as the np|>ermost, with a llowcr in the 

 ;^7 




«')48 FROC'EEPTNOS OF THK ACADEMY OF [1895. 



axil ; |)etAl6 iihout a line long, ])ifi(l. deep red-purple: capsule about 

 4 line^ lo"g> "^ oMong-lanceolate outline, curving outward, about 

 50-8eeded : seeds dark brown, glabrous, somewhat angular, and of 

 subclavRte-oblong outline. 



Dry beil of the upper Humboldt River, near Deeth, Nevada, 

 Aug. 5, 1895. 

 Valerianella magna. 



Glabrous, the stout stems .sharply angular, 3 to 5 feet long, tortu- 

 ous, half-reclining on fences or among bushes, and with rather many 

 small axillary branches : cymes thyr.'^oidly congested at the ends of 

 the stem and branches : corolla white, bilabiate, with ample funnel- 

 form tube and a short thick spur : fruit glabrous externally, tri- 

 quetrous-ovoid, the ventral concavity formed by the ample wings 

 closed below, open above, the wings themselves strongly hispid-ciliate 

 within. 



Collected (»nly l)y the author, in Knight's Valley, ^jonoma do., 

 Cal., June, 1894. Species noteworthy on account of its great size 

 and half-dimbiug habit; the fruit showing an affinity with V. apha- 

 noptera. 

 Valerianella oiliosa. 



Slender, erect, simple, seldom a foot high, corolla small, deep 

 pink, very distinctly bilabiate, the rather slender and tapering spur 

 much longer than the l)ody and produced far below the ovary : fruit 

 of roundish outline but modified by a very prominent stout apicula- 

 tion, the back glabrous, provided with a very broad ribbon-like 

 though distinctly bevelled keel, which is very densely ciliate along 

 both margins, the subrostriform apiculation bearing similar hairs, 

 the turgid-margined abruptly inflexed wings revealing the ventral 

 cavity by an elliptic ac\ite opening. 



Plentiful on northward slopes of low hills west of Napa Valley, 

 California, growing with V. niacroceru ; but very distinct, no less in 

 fruit characters than in form of corolla. 



Lessingia peotinata. 



Slender and very diffuse, the ascending or more widely spreading 

 and almost prostrate branc^hes a foot long or more ; herbage scarcely 

 woolly even when young, green, sparingly stipitate-glandular and 

 scabrous throughout ; only the lowest leaves woolly, these and also 

 those of stem antl l)ranche3 pectinate- pinuatifid, the segments pun- 




1895.] NATURAI, SCIENCES OF PHI I.APELPHI A. 549 



gently spinescent-tipped: involucral bracts narrow, acute, glandular- 

 puberulent : corollas yellow. 



Species known only from Monterey, California, where it has been 

 collected in recent tinics by Parry, Pringle, Tidestroni and others, 

 but earlier, as shown in the herbarium at Kew, by Hartweg. In 

 the American herbaria it is found mixed sometimes with />. riennnno- 

 nnn, sometimes with L. ijUnididifera.. 



Pyrroooma eriopoda. 



Caudex ligneous, covered with a dense white wool connected with the 

 ba.se8 of the petiole.s of the oblong lanceolate obtuse coarsely toothed 

 coriaceous glabrous or minutely scabrous leaves; stem erect, rigid, 

 1 to 2 feet high, with a few ascending or suberect branches; cauline 

 leaves spatulate, the raraeal ovate, acute, remotely .serrate, less 

 than 1 inch long: heads solitary on the ends of the branches and in 

 the axils of the leaves; invniucres tiirltinate-campanulate, al)Out * 

 inch high; bracts very rigid, oblong linear, green throughout, but 

 more herbaceous at the erect pungently acute apex: rays 15 to 20, 

 not showy. 



Collected at the Soda Springs, Esmeralda County, ><evada, .July, 

 1888, by Mr. Shock ley. 

 Pyrrocoma solidaginea. 



Stems rather stout, decund)ent, 12 to l^* inches high, lanuginous- 

 tomentose ihrougliout, l»ut the leaves, and often all but the lia.se of 

 the stem glabrate at iiiatuiitv: radical leaves lanceolate. <>ii rather 

 -lender petioles, 2 to ;') inches long, entire or irregularly serrate, 

 abruptly acute; cauline spatulate. sessile by an aiiriculate-clasping 

 bas«': stem parted al the middle or toward the base into niMuerdUS 

 slender suiierect braiiciie.- i)eaiing numerous racemosely (iis|K»sed, 

 small heads: involucres campanulate. 1 inch high; bracts in)bri- 

 cated looselv in about .'5 .series, linear, or oblong- linear, the green- 

 herbaceous erect tips pungently acute: rays 12 to Is, snnill. light 

 vellow. 



Along till- H'indxiMt Kiver, al I'alisade, Neva<la. 24tli of July, 

 ix!*."!. Species much resembling a So/itlnf/n: the small heads not 

 rareiv Mund»ering as manv as seventv-live nu a single ste«i. 



Pyrrocoma subviscoBa 



Stems not rigid, 14 to 20 inche.'^ high, onlv -lightly decnmbenf: 

 leaves, upper part of stem, and the inflore.scence gland ular-puberu- 




560 PKOC££DlNetJ OK THK ACADKMV OK [1896. 



lent aud resinous- viscid : leaves not iu the least degree coriaceouH ; 

 radical (> or r< inches long, lanceolate or linear-lanceolate, very 

 acute, saliently uutl bharjdy serrate-toothetl; the sessile cauline onef 

 more strongly toothed aud the teeth spreading : heads only 3 to 5, 

 iH)ryiul)08e at sunnuit of the stem: involucres broadly hemispherical, 

 \ to i inch broad; bracts linear-lanceolate, acute, in about 3 not 

 very unequal series, herbaceous almost throughout except the inner- 

 most : rays 30 or more, showy. 



Near the Humboldt Wells, iu eastern Nevada, 25th of July, 

 1893. To be compared only with /*. Innceolatu, from which it dif- 

 fers most notably in the membranaceous texture of the whole plant 

 as well as in the fine close glandular indunient. 

 Aster militaris. 



Rigidly erect, 1 tu 1 '> feet high, ecpiably leafy and simple up to 

 the somewhat fastigiately corymbose panicle: leaves 2 or 3 inches 

 long, scabrous-puberulent on both faces, and with scabrous-ciliolate 

 margins, mid vein prominent, lateral nerves none, the upper cauline 

 lanceolate, very acute, mucronate by the exciirrent strong midvein, 

 tapering to a narrow half-clasping base, entire or obscurely serrate- 

 toothed: involucre turbinate, the oblong-linear obtuse bracts numer 

 ous and much imbricated, green- herbaceous along the midvein and 

 at tip. pubescent, appresged; rays numerous, pale- purplish: achenes 

 sparsely pubescent: pappus not copious, rather fragile. 



A well-marked species of genuine Ader, but not intimately related 

 to any other known. Obtained at Grant's Pass, in southern 

 Oregon, September, 1892, by Mr. Howell. 



Aster amplissimus. 



Erect, rather slender, 1 to 2 feet high, simple up to the summit, 

 then partnig into 3 or more pedunculiform short branches, each 

 bearing a single very large head; stem red, bearing more or less 

 white birsutubins pubescence, this often running somewhat in lines, 

 or on one si<le only, except under the heads, when it is denser: leaves 

 all ample, thin, entire; the radical 8 to 12 inches long, oblanceolate, 

 tapering to a slender winged and ciliolated petiole; cauline few and 

 remote, fr(>»n .somewhat spatulate-lanceolate to linear- lanceolate, 

 a(iuti3h, .se-ssile by an auriculate-clasping base : heads '. inch high, 

 more than 1 inch broad; bracts from oblong- to linear-lanceolate, 

 acute, in 2 series but subequal, the outer series quite herbaceous, not 




1895.] NATURAI, SCIENCES OF PHII,AI)Rr-PHIA. 551 



spreading, bristly-ciliate, otherwise glabrous : ray? large, rose- red or 

 purple: aehenes sparsely strigose; pappus firm. 



lu wet subalpiiie meadows, toward the limit of trees on Mt. 

 Heinier, Washington ; <'ollecte(l by the writer, 21st of August, 1889; 

 probably not rare in the higher C'i\8cades, and possibly forming a 

 part of the confused .1. Jo/iamui var. frondeu^ o/'Grav's SmojAical 

 Fbn-ii, but very distinct from the type of that variety, which belongs 

 to a different region. 



Aster frondeus. 



Aster foUaceua, y^r. frondeus Gray, Syii. Fl.. I, Part 2, p. lO.S, in part only. 



Stems stouti.sh, decumbent, 1 to 2 feet high, green and nearly 

 glai)rous, mostly simple up to the .'summit and bearing a solitary head, 

 or two or more on very short peduncles : leaves not thin, glabrous 

 except the scabrous-cilioiate margins, entire; radical obovate-oblong, 

 petiolate; cauliiie spatulate; acutish, 2 to 4 inches long, auriculatc- 

 clasping : head.« rather more than ■> inch high, twice as broad : 

 bract.s of involucre of about equal length, the outer ovoid or oblong 

 and atiiply foliaceous ; inner more spatulato, l)Mt herbaceons almost 

 throughout : rays \ inch lojig, light blue or purplish. 



Plant of the Rocky Mountain region in Colorado and I tab. thence 

 northwestward to the Ixirders of California and perhaps Oregon; in- 

 habiting middle altitudes; its habit much like that of SoUdnyi, 

 Farnn ( A/ilopnppii-K Parrt/i (Iray), but heads few or solitary. 



Vagnera pallesoens. 



Rather slen<ler, horizontally inclining Tnot erect), 2 or 8 feet high, 

 the whole plant of a pale glaucous-green, but not glabrous : leaves 

 sessile, ample, ovate-elliptic, obtusish, or with abrupt short apicula- 

 tion, thin and widely spreading, 4 to H inches long, nearly glabrous 

 above, rather stittiy hirtdlons beneath : panicle of racemes rather 

 open, 4 tn H inches long: flower^ white, very fragrant: iterries deeji 

 cherry-red. 



Species inhabiting higher than middU' elerntions of the California 

 Sierra, from at lea«t Fresno Co.. northward : very unlike the stout 

 erect upright-leaved bright green V. nmpbxirtinlis of lower altitudes, 

 and of more northerly range, to which it ban been referre<l. 



2. Revision ok Tropiihkjarpum. 

 To the knowledge of this very noteworthy genus ot plants, at it 

 wtut published by .Sir William Hooker aImo«t >tixtv vean «iDce, 




552 PROCEEDINGS OK PUK ACA1>KMV OF [1896. 



nothing new was conlrilmled until within the Inst decade. It was, 

 indeed, as recently as the year 18'S.H that, in a peculiar district of 

 the Calitornian territory, I discovered a very clear, new species, 

 presenting fruit characters so precisely conformed to those of .some 

 capparids. that I at once published the species as T. rnpjxiridfHvi ; 

 and still more recently a third species has been detected by Dr. 

 A. Davidson, in southern "California, and published by him under 

 the uncomplimentary name of T. dtihiinn. 



On my return from Europe a year ago. having seen and carefully 

 examined not only Hooker's type specimens, but also other valuable 

 and instructive materials at Kew, I was ready to give, and had 

 hoped to have written before this, what is still much needed, a 

 critical revision of the species. 



This generic type is altogether Californian, none of the species 

 ranging eastward beyond the western foothills of the Sierra Kevada, 

 or extending northward beyond the valley of the upper Sacra- 

 mento ; though to the southward one has been found as far beyond 

 the State l)oundary as San Quentin on the peninsula of Lower 

 California. 



From almost all known cruciferous plants, and from all other 

 American crucifene, these differ notably, and very constantly, in 

 their leafy, or at least leafy-bracted inflorescence ; a character 

 which they have in common with nil capparids; and, if the re- 

 markable T. capparideimu with its ample bladdery and wholly par- 

 titionless pod, dehiscing from the apex rather than from the base, 

 had been the type of the genus, one might say that the seeds alone 

 favor the retention of it within the order of Cruciferse, all other 

 less essential characters being those of the ('apparidiae. 



By some error, either of Mr. Bentham's pen or of the printer, 

 the number of species of Tropidocarpum is given, in the Genera 

 Plantarum, as six, instead of one, or at most two; for at the time 

 that work was published only the two original Hookerian species 

 had been i)ublished, and even of these, one was beginning to be 

 looked upon as of questionable validity. 



Although the plants vary considerably in mode of growth, pu- 

 bescence, etc., the pods are of such diversity as to render it impos- 

 sible that any botanist should treat the species as one only; and, 

 if not one, simply, no less than four must, in all consistency, be 

 recognized. These may be characterized essentially as follows : — 




1895.] XATL'RAI. SCIENCES OF PHILAPELPHIA. 553 



T. gracile Hook.. Ic. i. 4.3; Torr. and Oray. Fl.. 1.94; Greene, Fl. Fr., 278, and 

 Man.. 27. 



Pod 1 to H inches long, lauce-linear to linear, strongly obconi- 

 pre8.se<l throughout, the cross-section nearly or quite linear; par- 

 tition t^xtreniely narrow, hut apparently never wanting; seeds in 

 one row, filling each narrow keel- like valve, in outline somewhat 

 quadrately oblong, hlack. 



T. macrocarpum Huok. and Uarv. iu Herb. Kew. '"'.' T. dubium" Robinson, 

 in Gray, Syn. Fl., I, 141. e.x descr., but not as to Davidson's type. T. gra- 

 cile, var. scabrinsciilurn. (treene, F). Fr., 278, and .Man.. 27. partly, hnt not 

 7". scahriuscuhim Hook. 



I'ofl \\ to ?> inches long, narrowly linear (often little more than 



\ line wide), very Hatly ohcompre.><sed throughout, or occa.sionally 



the lower ', or \ a.s tiatly compressed laterally, thi.< part destitute 



of partition, hut the upper division (jhviously partitioned: ripe seeds 



unknown. 



T dubium David.son, Kryth.. II. 180. 



I'od J to \\ inches long, lance-linear, 1 line wide, the cross-sec- 

 tion distinctly and rather sharply rhombic, either 1 -celled through- 

 out, or the upper \ or 1 obcompressed and partitioned : seeds half 

 as large as in T. gracil*^, dark brown, obovoid. 



T. capparideum firt-eue. I'itt.. 1,217 : Fl. Fr, , 278 : Man.. 27 ; proliahly " .'T. cafi- 

 paridrinn," Robinson. 1. c. 



Pod oblong, or linear-oblong, about \ inch long, slightly obcom- 

 pressed, the cros.s-section elliptic-oblong, partition wholly wanting ; 

 valves 4. but two narrower than the others and more persistent : 

 seeds ill 4 rows. 



The tiret of the above species is the most variable one. being 

 usually ere(rt and simple, with little pubescence, the fwds without 

 any. In a more freely branching state, with abundant rather 

 harsh pube.scence, it is T. AmhriiiMcii/iiin Hook., though not what 

 I formerly .so considered ; and I find the transition from typical 

 T. gnici/e to this so numerous, and the distinction so slight, that I 

 should hiirdly concede to the latter even varietal rank. 



The s('<'((nd species. 7'. innmirarjium, hitherto unpublished, is 

 what I had mistaken for 7'. ■-(■nhriiiKciihiit) ; and it was at Kew that 

 1 di.scoverefl my error, where I found this very distinct s|)ecie8 

 indicated as a new one. in the handwriting of Harvey, with the 

 above name assigned it. Dr. Davidsun, of Ix)8 Angeles, included it 




564 PROCEEDINGS OF III K ACADEMY oK [1895. 



in his T. duhinm, hut it is verv ditterent from the typt* of that species 

 in its pod. 



The third species, Dr. Davidson's T. liuhium, as to the typical 

 plant, is an excelltnit one hy the sharply rhondiic cross-section of the 

 short pod. In the only specimen of his which I have access to, there 

 is no instance of that twist in the pod which he assip^ns to the species; 

 whence I infer that he lias included in it, the [preceding : hut the 

 essential character of that is its extremely long and narrow vt-ry flat 

 pod. 



The fourth species, T. rnpjxtrldeinn, is such a remarkal)]e con- 

 necting link hetween two or three distinct natural orders, that 

 herbarium botanists of the old school would naturally sit more at 

 ease if such a plant had not been discovered. It has invariably a 

 4-valved pod and 4 placentse. The valves separate from the 

 placentje beginning at the top, just as in the capparids ; and when all 

 four of the valves have fallen away, the four placeutje, joined 

 together at the summit, remain in place, quite as in certain genera 

 of Papaveracea'. The pods are constantly <levoid of every trace of a 

 partition, an<l there is not the least suggestion of anything anomalous 

 about the plant. In its locality it is even more abundant than any 

 other species, and less disposed to vary than is the typical species of 

 the srenus. The statement in the Si/nnjdicfil Flora, p. 141, as to the 

 capsules, " commonly containing a small capsule-like structure at 

 base," it is based on a single instance. Dr. Robinson's imagination 

 would seem to have led him to guess that this malformation may be 

 common. I alone have .seen more of this plant than have all other 

 botanists, by at leaet tenfold, and am prepared to say that no species 

 of the genus is less variable in its fruit, or more constant in all its 

 excellent specific characters. 




1895.] NATURAI, SClFafCKS OF PHII.ADKI,PHI A. 555 



NOTES ON THE STUDY OF THE CROSS-FERTILIZATION OF FLOWERS 



BY INSECTS, 



r.Y IDA A. K j:i,i,i:k. 



One of the most reiimrkable discoveries in plant physiology was 

 certainly that of the cross- fertilization of plants by the aid of insect 

 visitors. That this discovery, made toward the end of the last 

 century, was founded upon actual fact lias been verified by almost 

 every one who has become interested in this most remarkable 

 phenomenon. Apparent as it is in many cases, in more instances, 

 cross-fertilization by means of insects is simply a conjecture. There 

 is no more fruitful source of error, perhaps, in the experience of all 

 scientific knowledge than a sudden brilliant di.scovery, which is 

 founded upon careful observations in a limited number of cases, and 

 the wholesale ap|)lication of its results without the exercise of suf- 

 ficient caution. Again and again, the organic world has i)een shown 

 to be so complex that no one simple formula can be fouml tcj express 

 adequately the exact situation in each of a great variety of cases. 

 Experience is i-onstantly showing that each particular case must be 

 carefully stu<lied by itself liefore ue can with any degree of certainty 

 gain a thorough understanding of any general phenomenon in plant 

 or animal life. 



In my attempts to obtain an imjtartial view of the subject of cross- 

 t'ertilization. so far as the actual observations made in this field up to 

 the present day will permit, F was struck with a numlier of curious 

 facts in connection with the development of our knowledge in this 

 direction. I must, however, apologize for the rather meagre pre- 

 sentation of the subject. I have had neither the time nor the (,)p- 

 |)ortunity to accpiaint myself thoroughly with its entire literature, 

 and the original observations which I have made in tliis line are 

 limited in number. 



Conrad Sprengel, aa we all know, discovered "The Secret of 

 Nature Revealed in the Formation and Fertilization of P'lowers." 

 Over one hundred years have passed since this was recorded, and 

 yet the plant world offers in this re8|)ect one puzzle after anotheP. 




556 PKoc'RRniNos of thk acadkmy of [1895. 



Instead of liaviiig exhausted the study of the subject by this time, it 

 seems to be i^aiuing in interest. 



Naturally enough, it was not the tendency of scientists to try to 

 disprove what was evidently true from the observations of Sprengel, 

 but ratlier to develop more fully our knowledge of cross-fertilization. 

 I need only refer to the famous work of Darwin, to that of the 

 well-known German botanists. Hildebrand, H. Miiller, Kerner, and 

 to that of the nuiuy close observers of our own day. 



The fact that cross-fertilization is of utmost value to the individual 

 species has been emphasized by Darwin. In fact, this great dis- 

 coverer contends repeatedly that pollen applied to the pistil of 

 the same tiower is a positive injur}' to the species. It is curious 

 to note how this idea has influenced the authws of botanical 

 text-books. As one instance in many. I need only refer to Gray's 

 Structural Botxiny. To the rather long chapter devoted to the 

 description of the adaptation of flowers to insure intercrossing, a few 

 paragraphs are added in which the writer, it seems to me rather 

 unwillingly, admits that there are also special adaptations to insure 

 close fertilization, in fact, that there are cases which positively ex- 

 clude all chances of a cross. Of cleistogamous flowers, Gray says : 

 "Here the intention and the accomplishment of self-fertilization are 

 unmistakable. This peculiar dimorphism consist* in the production 

 of very small or inconspicuous and closed flowers, necessarily self- 

 fertilized and fully fertile in addition to ordinary, conspicuous, and 

 much less fertile, though perfect flowers.'" He then continues: "It 

 has been said that the ordinary flowers in such plants are sterile, 

 and perhaps they always are so, except when cross-fertilized : in most 

 cases they are habitually infertile or sparingly fertile. Probably 

 they suffice to secure in every few generations such benefit as a cross 

 may give, while the principal increase is by cleistogamous, self- 

 fertilization, which thus offsets the incidental disadvantage of the 

 former mode." I have quoted the writer verbatim, because the 

 extract shows so ])lainly his mental attitude in regard to the signifi-- 

 cance of this phenomenon. Here we have a concession in regard to 

 the extreme fertility of cleistogamous flowers, followed by a sug- 

 gestion in regard to the few mostly infertile conspicuous flowers 

 which accompany the former and from the.se, and the statement that 



^ Gray's Structural Botany, p. Ml. 




1895.] NATIKAI, St'IKNCKS OK PHI I-AI)KI.PH I A. 557 



no species is Hltogether cleistogamous, taken as a premise, the follow- 

 ing conclusion is drawn : ''Thus, cleistogamy, with all its special ad- 

 vantage, testifies to the value of intercrossing. " The san)e bias, 

 looking favorably upon cross-fertilization, may he observed in most 

 writers on the subject. The prevailing impression .seems to be that 

 close fertilization is, as a rule, only resorted to when all the chances 

 for cross-fertilization are at an end. 



It appears that the problem permits of a wholly ditterent solution. 

 Among the few writers who admit thi.s, there is perhaps none who 

 speaks with as much decision an<l who udrUices as many facts to 

 prove his a.^sertions as does Mr. Meehaii. In iiis interesting paper, 

 entitled "Are Insects any Material Aid to Plants in Fertilization" — 

 the conclusions are a.^ follows: — 



First : The great bulk of colore<i Howering plants are self- 

 fertilizers. 



Secondly : Only to a limited extent do insects aid fertilization. 



Thirdly : Self-fertilizers are every way as healthy and vigorous, 

 and immensely more productive than those dependent on insect aid. 



Fourthly: That where plant.s are so de])endent, they are the worse 

 fitted to engage in the struggle for life, the great uiidorlyiiig principle 

 in natural selection. 



Tiiese views are directlv opposed to the impression one would natu- 

 rallv receive from text-itooks on liotaiiv. It is evident that it is of 

 the utmost im|M)rtance to study the .significance and, if po.«sible, the 

 (rause of each of the various fa(;tors with which we have to deal as 

 |)ointing either towards (toss- or towards close-fertilization. As 

 already suggesterl. it is always a critical matter to generalize where 

 thousjuids of s[)ecies are concerned which have developed under a 

 variety of circumstances. 



I^t us now ('onsider the chief adaptations which point towards 

 cross-fertilization : — 

 I. Distinct sexes. 

 II. Specially adapted or conspicuous corolla. 



III. Peculiar position of stamens and pistils. 



IV. Difference in the time of maturity of Btaniens and pistils. 



I. Diitinct Aexex. The male and female flowers l>eiug separated 



it is a tnatter of necesaitv that the ixdlen ot' one flower fintls its wav 



. . . ' 



to the stigma of another flower. From a teleologicul point of view 




558 PROCRKI>INOS OK THK ACADRMY «»K [1H95. 



the intention is clearly shown. We cannot, however, speak with 

 certainty of cross- fertilization even in all these cases, exceptin wholly 

 dia'cious plants, at least not in Darwin's understanding of the term, 

 which is. that "cross-fertilization always means a cross hetween dis- 

 tinct plants raised from seeds." We must, therefore, he careful not 

 to include too hastily in this category monoecious plants, where the male 

 and female organs are home on distinct flowers hut ou the snvie plant. 

 II. A specially (ulajited or ro??.<?;>yc»o»^^• cnrolta. It is these showy, 

 irregular or peculiarly shaped corollas that insects may readily be 

 observed to visit. The questions which here arise are numerous. 

 The first one to present itself is this : Ha.^ the corolla been developed 

 for the purpose of attracting insects, and is it the proof which nature 

 gives us that cross-fertilization is a necessity or that it is at least 

 favorable to the preservation of the species? This seems to have 

 been definitely answered in the affirmative. The number of cases 

 where the insect has actually been seen to transport the |X)lleu from 

 one plant to another, however, are few. compared witli the great 

 number of species whose flowers would come under this bead. In 

 this connection it must be remembered how very often the insect is 

 simply a robber. This past summer I observed, e. tj., a very large 

 patch of Gernrdid pedicu/aria, the flowers almost all being pierced at 

 the base of the corolla by bees perching on the outside and never 

 touching stamens or pistil. Now, wherever it is more convenient 

 for the insect to reach the desired substance without boring a hole it 

 is apt to be taken for a benefactor, even if it simply takes from the 

 flower without rendering any service in return. There is another 

 suggestion I would offier in regard to insect visitors. In observing 

 bees travelling to and from flowers of Kalmia latifolia I noticed that 

 very frequently pollen is thrown upon the pistil of the same flower 

 when the stamens are unfastened by the insect. I am not prepared 

 to as.sert, however, that such flowers proved fertile. I simply throw 

 this out as a suggestion and it should be taken for what it is worth. 

 Professor Willis made .somewhat similar ot)servations on the flowers 

 of Phacelia taiuicetifnlm. He describes the crawling of insects over 

 the dense cymes ; touching stamens and styles indiscriminately, and 

 probably knocking the pollen on the stigmas from the surrounding 

 anthers.' Further, he says in regard to Phacelia Campanularia: 



^ CoQtribatioDB to the Natural HiHtory of the Flower, Jour. Linnaen Society, 

 London, Botany, Vol. XXX, p. 55. 




1896.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 559 



'' Bees alight sometimes ou tlie corolla, touching styles uud stamens, 

 crushing them all up toijether with the styles, and probably causing 

 self- as much as cross-fertilization."^ This in spite of the fact that 

 the riower of this plant is to all a})pearance well adapted to secure 

 cross-fertilization. I should not be surprised if, sooner or later, upon 

 close examination, it would be founil that in many cases where this 

 adaptation to insects seems so perfect, the in.^^ect visitors aid in secur- 

 ing self-fertilization, as these ob.^ervations seem to indicate. 



III. Peculiar //o.iition of stavienH mul pistils. In the preceding 

 paragraph I have already briefly referred to the flowers of Kalmla 

 tdtifoliti, })erhaps the best illustration of such an arrangement. The 

 wheel-shaped corolla, with the ten pockets in which the anthers are 

 held, is surticiently familiar to require no further descripti(»n. 

 Stamens and pistil mature at the same time. The anthers are held 

 in the jKJckets of the corolla ; when visited by insects they are set 

 free and the fwlleu is thrown with considerable force from the anther 

 sacs through the orifices. As I have remarked before I have 

 observed repeatedly that pollen was thrown upon the stigma of the 

 same flower. Careful observations shoidd decide the question, how 

 far in such cases, where there is such a peculiar arrangement in the 

 position of stamens and pistils in regard to each other, close fertiliza- 

 tion is possible. 



Even should it be impossible in any case that autogamy, or close 

 fertilization, is effected, it must be remend)ered that whenever a plant 

 bears many, or clusters of flowers, the chances of cross-fertilization are 

 reduced. Insects in such cases may visit many flowers of the same 

 plant, but this is not cross-fertil+zation in Darwin's sense of the term. 



I\'. Dichogamy or difference In the time of viataritij of »fameiis 

 iiikI piitih. This appears to me the most suggestive and interesting 

 [)hase of this intricate problem. From a teleological point of view. 

 i. /'. . if we look for a purpose, we must ^gree with Darwin and his 

 followers that this is one of the most remarkable adaptations favor- 

 ing cross-fertilization. .Modern science insists, however, that we 

 must use inductive methods, and it is the tendency of the present day 

 to search rather for the causes than for an underlying purpo.se. If", 

 «)n the one hand, we aflirm that every (jrgan is modiiied to serve some 

 particular use, we cannot l)elieve, on the other hand, that such modifi- 



' Ibi(l.,;i). 57. 




660 PRfKTEEDlNGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



cations are directly ciue to extenml factors over which the plant 

 has no control. I aru aware that the principle of natural selection 

 may find it^s application in the most subtle cases ; at the same time 

 it requires, in this particular instance, a considerable strain to make 

 it fit. In reference to dichogamy ^Ir. RIeehan says positively that 

 the dirt'erence between the time of maturity of stamen and pistil is 

 caused by varying degrees of temperature and that dichogamy has 

 its origin in this circumstance, "that whatever its significance, it 

 arises from no effort innate to the plant it,self, but from an outside 

 force that can have but little interest in cross-fertilization."* It is 

 peculiarly characteristic of the present day to seek for the effect of 

 external conditions and to experiment with the modifications that can 

 be brought about by changing these. For example. Prof. Goebel says 

 in reference to cleistogamic Howers, " We do not yet know the condi- 

 tions necessary for the production of cleistogamic flowers, but it may 

 be assumed even now that this production is infiuenced by external 

 factors wherever a plant lias the power to produce such Howers."* He 

 then cites experiments maile with Iinjiatiens fulva, where cleistogamic 

 flowers are the result of poor nutrition. Accordingly, it appears at 

 least possible that experiments might give similar results in reference 

 to dichogamy. 



Attention has often been called to the fact that in plants espe- 

 cially adapted to insure cross-fertilization, there exists in almost 

 every case a po.ssibility of self-fertilization. The above statements 

 in regard to dichogamy, if of any value, point to a different con- 

 clusion concerning the final or at lea.st possible autogamy from that 

 which is generally accepted. It is assumeil that the fiower is so 

 constructed that there is every chance of a cross, provided the insect 

 appears to do the work. This failing, the arrangement is such as 

 to allow pollen to come in contact with the stignui of the same flower. 

 It is evident that in every ga.se which seems to point towards cro.«is- 

 fertilization it is always to a great extent a nuitter of chance 

 whether the visitor arrives or not, even when the adaptation seems 

 most perfect. It should be decided if cross-fertilization or autogamy 

 is the rule with every species which seems constructed .so as to 

 attract insects, and this work should be done in as many different 



♦ Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. I'hila.. Nov. 27tli. 18S8, p. :i94. 



'Goebel. Pflanzen-biologische Schildernngcii. Marhiirj^. 18MH. II 'I'heil. 2 

 Lief., p. 363. 




1895.] NATURAL scip:nces of philadki^phia. 561 



localities and at difi'erent times of the year as possible, since there is 

 nu doubt there are j^reat variatiou?; possible in the fertilization <if 

 Howers in the same specie.< caused by different conditions of heat, 

 moisture, etc. 



If autogamy should in ;iny case prove the rule we must rejrard 

 fertilization by aid of an insect as au exception, not to call it an 

 accident. Dichogamy probably is then in a measure due to exter- 

 nal conditions. If this is true it is simply the result of a "lagging 

 behind " in the ripfuing timt- of cither stamens or pistils, and the 

 final autogamy is tlie result of a subsequent " catching-up " in this 

 respect. This is, as I have said V)efore, probably the most interest- 

 ing side of the question, and the one which will no doubt prove the 

 most satisfactory for experimeutal investigation. 



In conclusion I desire to make the folhtwing suggestions: — 



Fir.it: — It is evident that the study of the phenomenon of cro.ss- 

 tertilization of flowers by means of insects is still a profitable field 

 for observation and discovery. 



Secoml : — The effect of external conditions in reference to dich- 

 ogamy should be the subject of critical experiments. 



Third: — Teleological explanations should be avoided as much 

 as po.ssible, here as elsewhere, according to the spirit of mn<lern in- 

 vestigation. 



Finalfij: — The relative number of cases of <'ro8.s- and close-fertiliza- 

 tion should be compared, and it should be determined if cross-fertiliz- 

 ation actually takes place in all cases where this is a.«sumed. 




562 PROCREDINQS OV THK ACADEMY OF [1895, 



The tbllowing annual reports were read and referred to tbe Pub- 

 lication Committee: — 



KEPOKT OF THK KECOKDIM; SECRETARY. 



The meetings of the Academy have been held during the year 

 without any intermission, a (luorum being always present even du- 

 ring the midsummer months. The average attendance has been 

 thirtv-three. The verbal communications have been of interest 

 and have frequently been followed by animated discussion. The 

 speakers have been Messrs. Goldsmith, Rand, Woolman, Ryder, 

 Ives, Woodbury, Boyer, Hoi man. Rex, Morsell, Morris, Dixon, 

 I^onard, Dalaud, Abbott, Allen, I'ilsbry, Parvin, Ball, Hopkins, 

 Vatix, Calvert, Oberholtzer, Horn, McCook, Keely, Skinner, Foote, 

 Miller, Lyman, Willeox, Cope, Mercer, Heiljjrin, Smock, Sommer- 

 ville, Brinton, Schumo and Miss Walter. Several of the most 

 important of these (communications have been reported by their 

 authors for publication in the i'roctedinyt^. 



Since the last report 608 pages of the ProceediiKjf, illustrated by 

 eighteen plates, have been issued, together with 114 pages and seven 

 plates of the Journal, constituting Vol. IX, Part 4. The text 

 of the memoir by the late Andrew J. Parker on the Primate brain 

 has been printed and will be issued as the thir<l part of Vol. X as 

 soon as the plates can be prei)ared. 



The Conchological Section has continued the pul)lication of the 

 Manual of f'o)ic!io/oi/ii, the sustained value of which is testified to by 

 the undiminished subscription list. 585 pages, illustrated by 85 

 plates, nearly all of them colored, have appeared during the year, 

 while the Entomological Sectioji and the American Entomological 

 Society have pul)lished, during the same |)eriod, ;^4() pages and 15 

 plates of the Entomolo<jical News and 816 pages and 6 plates of the 

 Travxocfioiis. These several issues constitute a total of 1,968 pages 

 and 131 plates, a gratifying evidence of the activity of the Publica- 

 tion Offices of the Academy. 



Thirtv-nine papers have been presented for publication from 

 November, 1894, to Novemlier, 1895, as follows: Samuel N. Rhoads 

 6, Clarence B. Moore 3, Wm. J. Fox 8, Witmer Stone 2, Henry 

 A. Pilsbrv 2, John A. Rvder 2, Theodore D. Rand 1, Gilbert D. 




1895.] NATL'KAI. SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 563 



Harris 1, J. B. Ellis 1, J. B. Ellis and B. M. Everhart 1, William 

 Kennedy 1, D. D. Baldwin 1, Henry Sutor and H. M. Gwatkiu 1, 

 Arnold E. Ortraaun 1, Emma Walter 1, Charles Morris 1, W. B. 

 Scott 1, Ida A. Keller 1, Thomas Meehau 1, D. W. Coquillet 1, 

 J. Percy Moore 1, Warren M. Foote 1, Edwin Chapin Starks 1, 

 Gerard Fowke 1, Edw. J. Nolan 1, T. D. A. Cockerell 1, Theo. 

 Holm 1. Thirty-four of these have been printed in the Proceedinrjs, 

 two others have been accepted for publication, and the remaining 

 three, those by Mr. Moore, will form a portion of Part 4, Vol. X 

 of the Jourmil. 



Twenty-three members and three correspondents have been 

 elected. The deaths of fourteen members and of twelve correspon- 

 dents have been announced ; the resignations of four members, 

 Messrs. K. W. Ryer.<s, B. Alex. Randall, Mayland C'uthbert and 

 H. N. Kitteuhouse, have been accepted, and ten names have been 

 stricken from the roll in consequence of non-payment of dues. It 

 will thus be .seen that the elections have not been .sufficient to counter- 

 balance the losses and that the uund)er of niembers on the roll is less 

 than at the close of the year 1H94. In another and more imjx>r- 

 tant re.<pect the past year ha.s not been a prosperous one for the 

 Academy, because of the loss of five of its most active members at 

 short intervals. Reference is made to the deaths of J. B. Brinton, 

 M.I)., Geo. A. Rex, M.D., John H. Rcdfield, W. S. W. Rnsch- 

 eni)erger, M.D. and John A. Ryder. The beneKts conferred by these 

 in their several ways on the .society have l)eeu reconied by grateful 

 re.solutions and memoirs in the pages of the Proccediixix. 



The mo.<t im|>ortant administrative event of the year was the 

 signing, June iHth, (jf the revised articles of agreement between 

 the Academy and the .Vmerican Entomological Society, by which it is 

 hoped iiarnionious cooperation in scieiititic work has been perma- 

 nently secured. 



The formation of an Aiitliropoloiri^'al Section was dulv authorized 

 April .'iOth, and the work accomplished during the ensuing months has 

 proven the desirability of such a l)ond of union among those 

 inter(!»ted in that department of science. 



Mr. Henry A. Pilsbry was electe<l to the Professorship in the De- 

 partment of Moilusca; and Prof Heilprin having resigned the Chair 

 of [nvertel)iiite Paleontologv was iinmediatelv ap|K>int('d by the 

 Council to that of Geology. 

 38 




664 PROCEEDINGS OF TJIE ACADEMY OF [1895. 



The tleatlis of the active members before iilhuled to. left several 

 vacancies in the Council auil Committees. Dr. Brinton was suc- 

 ceeded in the Council by Mr. Chas. P. Perot; Dr. Rex by the Hon. 

 John Cadwulader; Mr. Kedfield by Dr. Harrison Allen, while Mr. 

 Henry A. Pilsbry was elected to succeed Dr. Uuschenberj^er as 

 Curator. 



The Committee on the Hayden Memorial Award has this year 

 reported in favor of conferring the medal and balance of the interest 

 of the fund on Prof. Karl Alfred von Zittel of Munich, in recogni- 

 tion of hif! distinguished services to paleontological science. 



The lecture room and hall of the Academy have, as heretofore, 

 been used for meetings and lectures by several scientific societies, 

 including the Geographical Club, the Botanical Club, the Delaware 

 Valley Ornithological Club, the Mineralogists' Club, Wood's Holl 

 Biological Association and the Odontographic Society. 



All of which is respectfully submitted. 



Edw. J. Noi.AN, 



Recording Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 



The Corresponding Secretary respectfully reports that during the 

 past year, commencing December 1st, 1894, there have been re- 

 ceived from ninety-nine societies, museums and private individuals 

 one hundred and ninety-four acknowledgments of the receipt of the 

 publications of the Academy, and from thirty-one societies, editors, 

 etc., thirty-eight notices that their publications have been forwarded 

 to the Academy, together with six applications to exchange publica- 

 tions for reports, etc., and asking for missing numbers of the regular 

 publications of the Academy. 



Eleven letters on various subjects have been received and ten were 

 written. Ten circulars and invitations to the Academy to partici- 

 pate in congresses or meetings and announcements of the deaths of 

 scientific men have been received and answered. 



During the year three correspondents have l)eeii elected and 

 notified. The deaths of twelve correspondents have been reported. 



Seven hundred and twenty acknowledgments of gifts to the 




1895.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



565 



library and eighty-four of gifts to the museum have been 

 forwarded. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Benj. Sharp, 

 Corresponding Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN. 



The past year hiis been a most prosperous one for the library of 

 the Academy. The entire additions amount to 10,389. Of these 

 6,0-32 are volumes, 4,111 pamphlets and parts of periodicals, and 10 

 maps, photoi^^raphs, etc. 



Nearly one-half of these accessions form the James Aitkeu Meigs 

 Library, bequeathed to the Academy, together with an ira|M)rtaut 

 pecuniary legacy, by John G. Meigs, the father of Dr. J. A. Meigs. 

 There are many works in the collection which duplicate those 

 already in the library of the Academy. These have not yet been 

 separated from the other volumes. The total of acces.sions also 

 includes 217 duplicates and mi.scellaueous works received from 

 Mr. Meehan, in addition to 182 volumes included in the statement 

 given below. 



The current growth of the lil)rary, excluding the Meigs' bequest 

 an«l the duplicates above alluded to, depended on the following 

 sources of supply : — 



SoeielicH, i,'.4<>l* , IT. S. Treasury Dep., ... o 



I. V. WillianiHon P'un<l, . . l,()f«i Geological Hurvey of New 



I'-ditorH, . . . J)HO Jersey, 5 



-Vuthors, . . 187 (ieological Survey of Canada, 5 



rboinas Meelian, 17(> (Jeoiogieal and Nat. Hist. 



CharleH P. Perot, :{J Survey of MinneHota, . . 4 



I'.S. Dept.of .X^riculliiru, . 2J) C. .S. War Dept., 4 



r. S. Dept. of the Interior, 28 (leological Survey of India. I 



WilHon Kuiid is (ieoiogicul Survey of Ala- 



r. S. Dept. of State. . lU l)aina. '.i 



( Jeneral Appropriation, IJ William J. Ko.\, . H 



( Geological Survey of KuH.>-ia, II l. S. ConiniiwHionerhof Finli 



TenneHsee State Board of and Fisheries, -^ 



llealtli. II I lliiioiH State Board of Agri- 



.Miiiintry of TuUlic Worku, culture, 



France, 10 Stnithsonian Institution, . ;> 




r)66 



PROCEEDINGS OK I'HK ACADKMY OK 



[1895. 



Hureaii of p]thnology, U. S. 

 Dei it. Interior, 



Ben thain Trustees, Kew Ciar- 

 deU8, 



H. A. Pilsbry 



California State Mining Bu- 

 reau, 



Philip l\ Calvert, 



Iowa Agricultural College, . 



Iowa Ueological Survey, . . 



Britis<h Government, . . . 



Dej)!. of Mines, New South 

 Wales, 



Norwegische Commission 

 der Europiiischeu Grad- 

 messung, 



Comisiou Geologica de Mex- 

 ico, 



British Museum, 



U. S. Coast and (Jeodetie 

 Survey, 



U. S. Dept. of Labor, . . . 



MaHsachusetts CommisHlon- 

 ers i>f Inland Fislieries, . 



Dept. of Mineis, Nova Scotia, 



J. G. Whiteman, 



(luatenialan Government, . 



Illinois State Bureau of La- 

 bor, 



C. \V. Kuscheuberger, . . . 



Natural History Survey of 

 Illinois, 



Indian Museum Trustees, . 



H. T. Broadhurst, 



J. Percy INIoore, 



B. B. Valentine, 



Kentucky Inspector of 

 Mines, 



Manchester Museum, . . . 



Journals, .... ... 4,059 



Botany, 203 



Geology, 114 



General Natural History, . 8(5 



Entomology, o8 



Voyages and Travels, ... 43 



Medicine, 40 



Ornithology, 87 



Anatomy and Physiology, . 30 



Mammalogy, 29 



Conchology, 27 



Agriculture, 20 



Anthropology, 

 Physical Science, 

 Mineralogy, . . . 

 Encyclopedias, 

 Helmiuthology, . 

 Ichthyology, . . 

 Herpetology, . . 

 Bibliography, . . 

 Chemistry, . . . 

 Geography, . . . 

 Miscellaneous, 



The additions to the lil)rary tlius credited were assigned to the 

 several departments as follows: — 



18 



18 



14 



13 



12 



10 



9 



5 



3 



2 



44 



The classification of the James Aitken Meigs Library is as fol- 



lows: — 



Anthropology, 913 



Medicine, 708 



Literature, 656 



History and Biography, . . 628 



Anatomy and Physiology, . 535 



Journals, 382 



General Natural History, . . 184 



Religion, 172 



Philology, 160 



Philosophy, 154 



Voyages and Travels, . ... 110 



Sociology, 104 



Fine Arts, 76 



Geography, 74 




1895.] XATURAI- SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 567 



Entomology, 7 



Mammalogy, H 



Mlueralogy, 4 



Conchologj", 2 



Miscellaneous, 18 



Physical Science, 70 



Geology, 40 



Botany, 32 



Useful Arts, 28 



Chemistry, IS 



Bibliography, 8 



5,089 



It will thus he Been that an important section of the library is not 

 strictly in place in the Academy, and , as has been already stated, when 

 carefully arranged and catalogued, a large number of duplicates will 

 doubtlci-s be found. The gift, notwithstanding, is the most important 

 the library has received, exclusively, since the I. V. Williamson 

 Library Fund came into the possession of the Academy, and a brief 

 account of the legacy, as a matter of permanent record, may not be 

 out of place. 



Mr. John G. Mekjs was born in Philadelphia in ISOI. He was 

 engaged during his active life in the manufacture and sale of shoes, 

 his place of ijusiness being on the west side of Fiflh Street above 

 Chestnut. He was so well regarded by his friends and customers, 

 because of his honorable dealing, as to have acquired the enviable 

 name of "Honest John Meigs." By strict attention to his work 

 and judicious investments in real estate, ho laid the foundation of a 

 fortune which enabled him later to retire from the cares of business 

 life. While not himself a man of college education, ho was fully 

 aware of the desirability of intellectual training. His son, James 

 Aitkeii Meigs, was therefore encouraged to take advantage of the 

 public school system of education, culminating in the Boy's C-entral 

 High School, from which he graduated in 1848. He then matricu- 

 lated in Jefferson Medical College, from which he obtained his 

 diploma as r)oct<jr of Medicine in 1851. He was elected a member 

 of the Academy the following year, and was immediately placed 

 under those inHuencos which were so important in determining his 

 future distinguished career. He served as Librarian from August, 

 185H, mitil Mav, 185i>, when he was compelled to resign the office in 

 (;ou8er|uence of the increase of his professional engagements. 



After his retirement from business, Mr. Meigs ami the DtK'tor were 

 much more intimately associaterl than is usually the case even with 

 father and son. The mother having died July '28th, 1X70, at the 

 age of sixty years, the two men kept liouse together, during the latter 

 years of their lives at No. I4()>* Spruce Street, where they accuniu- 




568 PROCEEniNQS OF THE ACADEMY OK [1895. 



lated the lil)rary which is now in tlie possession of the Academy, 

 Notwithstanding; the ohl gentleman's lack of literary and scientific 

 traininjr, there was a snfticient coininnnity of tastes between the two 

 to establish a close fellowship, the son's pnrsuits beino; encouraged 

 and his successes gloried in by the father. The premature and un- 

 expected death of Dr. Meigs occurred Noveml>er 9th, 1^79, in his 

 fiftieth year. 



Appreciative biographical notices of Dr. Meigs have been pub- 

 lished by Dr. H. C". Chapman in the Transactions of the ('ollege 

 of Physicians of Philadelphia, 3d Ser., Vol. V, and by Dr. George 

 Hamilton in tlie Transactions of the Medical Society of the State of 

 Pennsylvania for 18'H0, so that it is not necessary to dwell further on 

 the incidents of his career. The character of tlie library, as indicated 

 by the classification here given, is sufficient evidence of the extraoi'di- 

 nary catholicity of his tastes. 



Afler the sad bereavement, his father, with a natural desire to 

 remain surrounded l\v objects to which were attached such teniler 

 associations, declined to part with either books or instruments. The 

 latter were carefully packed away, and the library renuiined just 

 as the son had left it, until the death of Mr. Meigs. 



Early in 1893 your Librarian was informed that a zealous but 

 indiscreet member of another society had assured Mr. Meigs that 

 the Academy not only did not desire possession of the library but, on 

 account of its miscellaneous character, would decline to receive it 

 were it offered. A statement of the utterly erroneous nature of 

 this assertion was immediately sent to Mr. Meigs, and in an inter- 

 view the following day he was assured that possession of at least the 

 scientific portion of the collection was earnestly desired, and that its 

 proper arrangement in connection with the Academy's library would 

 be a memorial of Dr. Meigs most in harmony with his own desire 

 and eminently fitting in view of his interest in the society and the 

 substantial benefits he had derived from his association with it. 



Mr. Meigs warndy expressed his sym})athy with these views, but 

 at once stated that the library would not be given to any society 

 except on condition that it would be kejit intact. His attention 

 having been called to the fact that the books were entirely unclassi- 

 fied and that their usefulness would be greatly increased if properly 

 grouped, he not only conceded this point but expressed his willingness 

 that the scientific works should be arranged in connection with the 




1895.] XATLKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 569 



appropriate sections of the main library, if the gift were made to the 

 Academy, but tliat before considering farther the propriety of mak- 

 ing such gift or Ijcrjuest he must he a.«sured that none of the vohimes 

 woukl be parted with by sale or otherwise, but that, apart from tlie 

 conceded arrangement of the scientific works, the rest of the collec- 

 tion should be kept toirether permanently as the James Aitken 

 Meigs Library. This condition was accepted on behalf of the 

 Academy by your Librarian in the presence of Mr. Meigs' friend, 

 Dr. K. K. Hinton, and his housekeeper, .Miss Lizzie Rogers. 



A few days later the will was made, leaving to the Academy the 

 hooka, scientific instruments and the sum of 820,000, one-half of 

 which is for the exclusive benefit of the library. The other half is 

 left without restriction or condition and has not yet been s])('cificallv 

 ap|)ropriated by the Council. Mr. Meigs died May lOtli, IM*.';. and 

 the lil)rary wa.-< shortly after removed to the Academv. It is con- 

 fidently believed that the legacy depended on the agreement made 

 with Mr. Meigs regarding the custodianship of the library. It is 

 therefore held to i)e incumbent on the Academy to act in conlormitv 

 with this understanding, although the wording of the will grants a 

 greater degree of liberty. 



The scientific portions of the James Aitken Meigs Librarv have 

 been placetl, as far as the present supply of case- room will permit, 

 with the appropriate sections of the general liitraiy, the volumes 

 being appropriately labelled ; while the works on literature, philoso 

 phy, history, religion, etc., have been arranged temporarilv in the 

 Council room. The duplicates will ultimately be placed in tlic 

 main library, when the Acailemy will, of course, be at liberlv to dis- 

 pose ol" the works replaced by them. 



The late John H. Kedfield, as a farther evidence of his h»ng-con- 

 tinued interest in the botanical department of the Academv, directed 

 by will the sale of his scientific library and collections, the receipts 

 to be invested for the benefit of the Hotanical S<'ction. 'i'lic book> 

 have been di8|V)8ed of at auction. The duplicates included in tlie 

 Meelian gift were sold at the same time by direction of Mr. Mee- 

 han, the sum realized to be applied to the same object: the in- 

 crease of that which, by resolution of the Hotaiiical Sc<-tion, is to hv 

 known as the .John II. Kedtield Fund. 



Through the foresight of the Corresponding S-cretary u new 

 section, which cannot fail to bo of iniiM)rtance to the I )epartnH'iit 




570 PROCEEOINOS OK TFIK ACADKMY OK [1895. 



of Instructiou, has been added to the library duiitii; tlie year. 

 It consists of a collection of lantern slides, for flio purpose of 

 lecture illustration. Those now in the possession of the Academy 

 have been derived from the following sources : John G. Meigs' be- 

 tjuest 135, Prof. Alfred Jiickmore 100, Dr. Benjamin Sharp 45, 

 Prof. E. I). Cope 26, Dr. II. Skinner 16, and Prof. J). G. Elliot 4. 

 The collection has been classified and catalogued by Dr. Sharp and 

 is now ready for use. 



Acknowledgment is again due Mr. Wm. J. Fox for the faithful 

 and intelligent discharge of his duties as assistant to the Librarian 

 during the past year. 



All of which is respectfully submitted. 



Edwaui) .1. Nolan, 



Lihidriati. 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



The Curators report that the various collections in their charge 

 are in a still more satisfactory state of preservation than at the 

 time of their last annual report, while great progress has been 

 made during the year in the rearrangement and cataloguing of 

 the several departments and many valuable additions have been 

 received. 



Although the first floor of the new museum building is practi- 

 cally ready for exhibition, it has not yet been thrown open to the 

 public, as the work of arranging and labelling, which yet remains 

 to be done, would be very much hindered thereby. Mr. Clarence 

 B. Moore has presented three additional cases for the display of 

 the rich additions he has made to the Moore Archaeological Col- 

 lection, and his collections from the Florida Indian mounds and a 

 series of aboriginal pottery specimens from the mounds of Ohio and 

 Tennessee have been arranged in them. A large day altar from 

 Ohio has been mounted in a special case, and several maps and 

 photograi)hs, illustrating the collection, have been placed upon the 

 walls. 



The Professor of Ethnology and Archjeology having been un- 

 able to devote any time to the arrangement of the collection in his 

 department, Professor Putnam, of the Peabody Museum, Cambridge, 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADEI-PIII A. 571 



has been engaged to classify and label the Mexican archaeological 

 specimens, and has already completed a portion of the work. Much 

 additional archieological material has been transferred during the 

 year to the new i)uil(liiig, three additional cases and six large 

 tables being provided for its reception. 



A boiler has l)een erected in the engine-house and the heating 

 plant of the new building is thus rendered practically con)plete. 



The west end of the main floor of the old museum has been 

 separated by a partition of glass and woodwork, thus forming a com- 

 modious apartment which will soon be occupied by the Entomo- 

 logical Section. New radiators have been provided for heating the 

 same, while radiators have also been placed in the rooms formerly 

 occupied by the Wm. S. Vaux Collections, east of the library galler}'. 



Early in the year the entire collection of bird skins was removed 

 from the cramped cpiarters in the library and collar and placed in 

 the southeast room, formerly devoted to the Wni. S. Vaux Collections, 

 which now forms an excellent study room for those engaged in ornitho- 

 logical investigation, while the adjoining room has l)een used as a gen- 

 eral work room for the taxidernust and others engaged in the prepara- 

 tion of specimens. The northeast room on the same floor has been 

 devoted to the use of the artists and transient workei's. The basement 

 of the new building has also Ix'en fitted up for the use of the taxi- 

 dermist, and all the larger work has been done there. The transfer 

 of the west end of the main floor of the old museum to the Entomo- 

 logical Section has nece.ssitated considerable rearrangement of cases, 

 and the removal of the osteological collections to the second floor of 

 the new building, while the mammal and fossil Ciises are necessarily 

 much crowded. This condition is, however, only temporary, and as 

 soon a.s ca.se8 can be provided the entire series of mammals will be 

 transferred to the new building, leaving ample room for the display 

 (A' the jjAhfontological colh'ctions. 



liev. Dr. \j. T. ('hand)erlain has generously provided a second 

 fine case for the I^ea Collection of Eocene Fossils, and has eniplovcd 

 rrut. (i. 1). Harris during the year to make a careful study of the 

 original I.«ea type collection, with the result thsit llie whole is now 

 entirely rearranged on speci.illy printed labels, and :iil tli<> tvpe 

 specimens carefidly deaignat<'d. 



Mr. C. W. Johnson has l>een engaged, also by the Uev. Dr. 

 ( 'haiiilierlaiii, on another e\'|)edition to the Eocene formation in 




572 I'HOCKKDINOS OF TH K AC'ADK.MV (»!• [1895. 



I^uisiaiia und Textis in the interest of the Lea Collection, and has 

 hroujrht hack a valuahle series of additions. Dr. Chainherlain has 

 aldo had a handsome wainscoting erected in the vestihuie of the new 

 hnilding, ahove which are to he placeil tlie slal)s of fossil foot-prints 

 presented hy the late Dr. Isaac Lea. 



Apart from the preparation and arrangement of the accessions, the 

 work in the museum during the year has heen mainly coidined to 

 the arraniring and cataloguing of the departments of Ktlniology, 

 Ornithology and Mineralogy. 



In the first departnient, the entire collection of human crania has 

 l)een consistently numhered and carefully checked off in the printed 

 catalogue of the Morton Collection, a large amount of uncatalogued 

 material systematically entered, and the whole copied into the new 

 catalogue and brought up to date. 



In the ornithological collection, over 4,000 specimens have heen 

 worked over on the plans previously outlined, and many additional 

 S|)ecimens mounted. All the types have been unmounted and placed 

 in air-tight cases. For this purpose, one large additional tin case 

 has been provided, and twenty large packing cases have been pro- 

 cured for the temporary storage of duplicate specimens of large water 

 l)irds. Fuller particulars in this department are furnished in the 

 report of the Ornithological Section. 



In cataloguing the minerals great progress has been made, nearly 

 4,000 specimens have been entered in the catalogue, and a large 

 portion of the remainder arranged for cataloguing. 



In the department of mollusca, a large amount of new material 

 which had accumulated has been mounted, catalogued and placed 

 in the museum, while many valuable accessions have been received 

 during the year. A large amount of work has been done on the 

 identification and rearrangement of the laud mollusca. 



The taxidermist, Mr. McCadden, in addition to his work in reno- 

 vating the ornithological collection, has devoted much time to the 

 mounting and preparation of new material received during the year 

 by gift and purchase, and many valuable specimens have thus been 

 placed on exhibition, especially in the department of Mammalogy and 

 Ornithology. 



The gifts of specimens during the year have been so numerous 

 that the Curators have been unable, for want of cases, to properly 

 arrange more than a few of them for exhibition. 




1895.] NATl'RAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADKMMl I A. ' -'hS 



Oi)e of the most inij)ortant accessions of the year is a series of 

 specimens obtained by Dr. Benj. Sharp durinjr a summer expedi- 

 tion on board the U. S. Revenue Cutter "Bear." These collections, 

 however, have just l)een received, and have not yet been stutlied or 

 prepared for presentation. 



Dr. S. G. Di.xon and Mr. H. M Mercer obtained, durin^r the 

 year, additional collections of fossil remains from the Port Kennedy 

 limestone cave. These have been properly prepared, jiresenteil 

 and added to the valuable series obtained last year. 



During May and .lune, Mr. S. N. Khoads made a journey through 

 the State of Tennessee in the interest of the Academy, and obtained 

 valuable collections of the reptiles, birds, mammals and mollusks of 

 this interesting region, all of which have been placed in the museum, 

 and reported upon in the Frneeedhu/K of the Academy. 



Other valuable acces.sions during the year have been a collection 

 of Pennsylvania and Kew Jersey birds, received from Samuel N. 

 Khoads, with other small collections of birds from T. H. Mont- 

 gomery, Jr. and A. Sydney Logan. 



The Delaware Valley Ornithology Club has continued to add 

 liberally to its interesting collection of local birds. Under the ef- 

 ficient management of Mr. Jefferis, the Wm. S. Vaux Collections 

 have been largely increasefl and kept in most satisfactory condition. 



The botanical collection, during the past year, has been uniier the 

 care of Messrs. Thos. .Meehan and Stewardson Brown, while the 

 Entomological Department has continued under Dr. Skiinier's super- 

 vision. Toall these gentlemen, the Curators desire to express thanks 

 for their valuable assistance, and also to Me.s8r8. Schul/.e, lioyer, 

 Woolmaii and Kcely, who have devoted much time to the cata- 

 loguing and arrangement of the microscopical collections. 



The Curators would also acknowledge the efficient work of their 

 assistants, Messrs. Witmer Stone and Samuel N. Khoads, to whose 

 earne.slness and fidelity the succes-sfnl progress of the nniseum work 

 is largely due ; and they also express their appreciation of the work 

 of the taxidermist, Mr. D. N. McCadden. and the valuable a.«sist- 

 ance of the students of the .le.ssup Fund, Miss Helen M. Iliggins, 

 Messrs. Henry W. Fowler, H. C. Borden, Win. J ( Icrhard and 

 K. O. Vanatta. 



The interest of the general public in the museuin is shown by the 

 large attendance of visitors during the year, while s|>eciali8t» in 




574 ■ PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACAOEMY OF [1895. 



various departmenti^ have fre(|U('n(ly consulted the collections. 

 8|)ecinien9 have hcen loaned to Messrs. K. Livtchford, F. W. Stokes, 

 C). F. Cook, II. C. Mercer, Professors H. W. Everniann, ('has. E. 

 Bessey. W. B. Cook and K. Ridgway. 



Henry C. Chapman, 



CJialrnKtii of the Ciirahrrs. 



REPORT OF THE MICROSCOPICAL AND BIOLOGICAL 



SECTION. 



The meetings of the Section during the past year have been regu- 

 larly held, the attendance averaging slightly more than the previous 

 year. The best communications of the Section have been always 

 reserved for the meetings with the Academy, and consequently our 

 minute-book is not a record of all the work done. Thus, during 

 February last Dr.* C. L. Leonard exhibited, under the auspices of 

 the Section, thirty lantern slides showing cell motion. Dr. Dixon, 

 Prof. Ryder, Mr. Woolman, Mr. Holman, Mr. Schumo, Mr. Keely 

 and the Recorder have made communications before the general 

 raeetinif in connection with the work of the Section. Before the Section 

 itself, Messrs. Woolman, Keely, Parvin, Brown, Schulze, Holman and 

 Schumo made communications of special interest. The Section 

 suffered severely in the deaths of two esteemed members, Dr. George 

 A. Rex and Prof. John A. Ryder, the former of whom was Con- 

 .servator of the Section at the time of his death. Resolutions of 

 respect were drawn up, presented to the Academy and printed for 

 distribution among the members. 



Mr. F. J. Keely succeeded Dr. Rex as Conservator. 



Early in the year a committee was appointed to devise plans 

 whereby teachers of the public schools might l)e instructed in the 

 natural sciences. The Academy itself acting in the matter, the 

 special committee decided to co-operate with it. 



The new rooms for the Section will probably be ready for occu- 

 pancy in the spring, and it is intended to furnish them so that there 

 will be enlarged facilities for research. 



There are at present in the Section sixty members and con- 

 tributors. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 575 



Mr. F. J. Keely, the Conservator of the Section, reports as fol- 

 io w.s : — 



The instruments of the Section are in a serviceal)le condition, new 

 spring clips on two of the smaller stands having been the only 

 repairs re(iuired. In addition to their use at the separate meetings 

 of the Section, at least four of the stands have been regularly on the 

 table at the joint meetings with the Academy, on which occasions 

 interesting slides have generally l)een provided l)y ineniliers, or when 

 this was not the case, the collection of the Section was drawn upon. 

 The collection of slides is in fairly presentable condition, those that 

 required it having received an extra ring of cement. During the 

 year the following additions have been made : — 



An arrangement for cutting sections of minute objects, devised by 

 .Mr. Ryder, presented by Mr. Trenner. 



One Welsbach Light, one Maltwood Finder. Purchased. 



One Beck Binocular Microscope, one Zeutinayer Monocular 

 Microscope, one Histological Microscope, one Dissecting Microscope, 

 one Claas Microscope, together with a large number of accessories, 

 including twelve objectives and 200 slides, formerly the property 

 of J. Aitkeu Meigs, M. D., bequeathed by his father, John G. 

 Meigs. 



One dozen mounts of selected diatoms, and one dozen strewn 

 slides of diatoms, presented by J. A. Schulze. 



Seven slides of nerves, presented by M. V. Ball. 



The following officers have l)eeii elected for the ensuing year : — 



Director, ..... Benjamin Sharp, M. D. 



Vice- Director, .... John ('. Wilson. 



Treasurer, .... ('has. 1*. I'enjt. 



Conservator, . F. J. Keely. 



Correspond ill [I Sccretunj, .John O. I\otherni(d. 



Recorder, .... M. V. Jiall, M. D. 



M. V. Ball, 



Hecortli r. 




576 PROCKEDINOS OF THK ACADEMY OF [1895. 



REPOK'r OK 11 IK CONC'IIOLOGICAL SECTION. 



Duriu<; the year 1^95 specimens have been added to the col- 

 lection of niolhisks from 115 persons, the accessions including a 

 large proportion of sju'cies new to the collection and a considerahle 

 number of type specimens. 



Accessions of special value have been received from Mr. J). 1). 

 Baldwin, who gave the type.« of many new species of Achat inedn ; 

 from W. T. Bediuill, who has continued to send us rare and 

 new South Australian C'hitons ; from ('. K. Ncwcombe, a large 

 series of marine shells dredged near Victoiia, B. C; and from 

 the late Robert Walton, whose collection was presented entire. 

 Other valuable material has been received from Prof H. K. 

 Sargent, O. A. Nylander, O. A. Craudall, G. H. Clapp C. W. 

 Johnson, Wm. J. Fox and others. Messrs. Ford, Roberts and Van 

 Nostrand have continued to enrich our series with various new and 

 rare species a.s in former years. 



The Conservator has obtained in exchange for duplicate material 

 a C(msiderable number of species new to our collection, including a 

 fine series of Transylvanian shells from E. A. Bielz, with speci- 

 mens of many of Bielz's own species; a series of Tonquin land 

 shells from M. Ph. Dautzenberg ; a large number of North African 

 Helices from M, 0. Debeaux, including many species described liy 

 him ; also a full series of Mr. C J. Maynard's species of Strophia. 

 The Couchological Section has acquired, by purchase, altout 150 

 sjiecies of shells, all new to the collection of the Academy. 



The collection of alcoholic mollusks has been materially increased 

 by many accessions during the year, among which may be mentioned 

 the gift by Mr. J. B. Henderson, of Washington, D. C, of a series 

 of Jamaica land nioilusca collected by him, and a small but 

 valuable collection of Madeira land mollusks from Kev. R. Boog 

 Watson. A specimen of Nautilus pomp'dins in alcohol has 

 been purchased by sub.scription of mend)ers of the Section ami I he 

 Academy. 



Work in the museuiu has been confined to tlic |»ro|)er placing 

 of new material, it being deemed inadvisable to attempt any ex- 

 tensive work of rearrangement until additional room can be |)laced 

 at the disposal of the Couchological Department. 




1895.] NATCKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 577 



With the a-ssistance of Mr. E. G. Vanatta, who has recently 

 been appointed on the Jeesup Fund, the Conservator has made good 

 progress toward labelling and cataloguing specimens which have 

 accumulated during the past few years; and, with the same etticient 

 help, it is believed that all arrears of work on material of this 

 nature will be completed during the winter. 



The Conservator has been chieHy occupied in the preparation 

 of the several numbers of the Manual of Conchology ; but no small 

 amount of time has been consumed in the work of identifying speci- 

 mens for conchologists and in correspondence on conchological sub- 

 jects. It is believed, however, that the large amount of new and 

 interesting material secured by this means repays for the lalwr and 

 time involved. 



PI. A. PlLSHRV, 



Conservator. 



REPORT OF THE ENTOMOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The usual monthly meetings of the Section have been held and 

 were well attended by its niend)ers and assocnites. Numerous verbal 

 communications of great interest entomologically have been made by 

 nearly all the members. The collections are in a g<jod state of 

 preservation considering tlie faulty ca.ses in which some orders are 

 kept. These will gradually be replaced by safe dust- and pest-pntof 

 receptacles. The library is gntwing rapidly, and iluring the year 

 four hundred and ninety- live entries have been made in the donation 

 book. A large number ol" insects have also been presented. The 

 present «|Uarter3 devoted to the Section are entirely inadeipiate, and 

 it hopes soon to be able to occupy the new room set a[)art for it by 

 the Academy. Two members and two associates have been elected, 

 riif journal of the Section, Kiitoniohtt/ical XewA, has been success- 

 fully conliiiiicd iiiid three hundred and forty pages and fiflc*-!! plates 

 publishe<l during the year just closed. Ft will be conliinicd in the 

 nt'W yt-ar. and an illustrated edition of six liumlred copies of thirty- 

 two pages per nionlli will Ik- priiitrd. At tin- annual i-lcction held 




578 PROC'KEniNOS OK 11 IK AC'ADKMY OK [1895. 



neceiul)er Hth the tollowiiitj were clei'Icd odicers to serve during the 

 coniiug year : — 



Director, ..... George H. Horn, M.D. 



Vice- Director, .... Charles S. Welles, 



Recorder, .... Henry Skinner, M. I). 



Treiisurer, .... Ezra T. Cresson. 



Secretary, .... William .1. Fox. 



(uiiservalor, .... Heury Skinner, M.D. 



PiihJicatinn Connniitre, 



f Charles W. Johnsou, 

 ( James H. Ridings. 

 HicNHY Skinnek, 



Recorder. 



REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL SECTION. 



The Botanical Section respectfully reports that the general pro- 

 gress noted in former annual reports still continues, notwithstanding 

 the severe loss sustained by the death last April of its most zealous 

 and untiring member, John H. Redfield, who had been the able 

 Conservator of the Academy's Herbarium since the formation of 

 the Section. His <leath renders the recommendation of former 

 years, that a permanent Conservator should be employed, still more 

 |)re88iug. It is believed that a fund of S2U,000 would yield enough 

 to make a fair start in this direction. Mr. Redfield perceived this 

 necessity, and generously willed that his scientific books and collec- 

 tions should be sold to form the nucleus of such a fund. To aid in 

 this laudable object some of the members of the Section organized a 

 "Redfield Memorial Herbarium Fund," to which a little less than 

 81,000 have been sulwcribed, hoping to add to it the coming year. It 

 is earnestly hoped that the Academy will lend a vigorous aid in the 

 e.stablishment of this fund. Until the whole amount is subscribed, 

 the interest will go to the purchase of additions to the collection. 

 It has been estimated that the work of verifying, arranging and 

 fastening down specimens, now going on by the voluntary work of 

 the members of the Section, could not be completed under four or 

 five years, even though there were no new additions. The dire 

 necessity for a regularly employed official is therefore obvious. 



The Section is clear of debt and has a balance in the treasury. 

 Meetings are held regularly on tlKj second Tuesday in each month. 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 579 



except duriDg the three summer months, aud matters of wide botani- 

 cal interest have beeu regularly discus-sed. Mr. Steward.'son Brown 

 lias been serving very efficiently as Conservator landing the annual 

 election. His report showinir the condition of the Herbarium, is 

 herewith appended. 



The officers elected for the ensuing year are as follows : — 



Director, ..... Thomas Meehan. 



Vice-Director, ..... Charles E. Smith. 



Recorder, ..... Charles SchiiHer, M.D. 



Treasurer, ..... Stewardson Brown. 



Corresponding Secretary, . . . Joseph D. Crawford. 



Conservator, ..... Stewardson Brown. 



Thomas Meehan, 



Director. 



The Conservator of the Botanical Section reports as follows : — 

 In presenting this report for the year your Conservator wishes to 

 congratulate the Section on the general good condition of the Herba- 

 rium at the present time. 



The permanent mounting of the specimens in the general Herba- 

 rium, commenced some years ago, has been carried steadily forward 

 during the pre.sent year, largely through the untiring efforts of the 

 Director of the Section, Mr. Thomas Meehan ; and we can now 

 re|K)rt the work done as far as I'mbellifenc 



The additions received during the year have i)een ],HS8 8[>ecies, 

 of which 8.32 are lower Cryptogam.s, and \,'^h\ Phanerogams and 

 Ferns ; of the latter, 442 species are from North America, 42fi from 

 tropical America, 2/J8 from Asia, and 226 from Australia and 

 Polyne.'*i«. 



Notable among the.sr are the following collections : — 

 245 species of Newfoundland plants receive*! from tiic llowani 

 Herbarium, Cambridge : 111 s|)ecics of Northern (California plants 

 received from Prof E. L. Greene ; 425 .sj)e(Mes of Mexican plants 

 collected in 1H94, by Prof C. G. Pringle, and purcha.sed through 

 the liberality of .Home of the members of the Section ; 25.8 species of 

 .\sia Mirior plants collected by Prof. Bornmidler. and purchased for 

 the Section, and 126 8i)ecies from the Azores Islan<ls, collected in 

 1^98 by Mr. C. S. lirown. ami purchased for the Section. 




580 PR<HKK1>IN«S OK TIIK ACAMKMY OK [1895. 



(^f these collectious, some 350 species me new to llie Herl)ariiini. 



It will he seen from the torejjoing that a hirge |)ro|)()rtion ot" the 

 achlitions during the past year luive l)een ac(|uire(l through purcluise, 

 entailing a considerahle expenditure on the part of a few of the 

 nienihers, owing to the luck of funds availahle for sucii purposes. 

 While sueh outlay will undouhtedly he necessary to some extent in 

 the future, yet it is hoped that liy :i proper system of exchanging, 

 which we expect to etlect shortly, much achlitional material can he 

 acquired. The Section now has in hand a c()nsideral)le (piantity 

 of material which can he readily used for this purpose as soon as 

 adequate s|)uce is furnished for its arrangement, which time we hope 

 is not far tlistant. 



The attention of the Section was calleil to the crowded condition of 

 the present cases, in the report <>f the Conservator for 1894. and it 

 is hoped hefore the report for 18i(H is made this much-needed room 

 for expansion will have heen provided, and the })resent cases fitted 

 with doors of the hest dust-proof construction. 

 Respectfully suhmitted, 



Stewardson Bkown, 



Conservator, pro fern. 



REPORT OF THE MINERALOGICAL AND GEOLOGICAL 



SECTION. 



Eight meetings of the Section have heen held during the past year 

 with an average attendance of ahout eight memhers. Papers have 

 heen read hy Messrs. Goldsmith, Rand and Wool man. 



The additions to the cahiuet, except to the William S. Vaux col- 

 lection, have not heen large, hut there seems to he a greater interest 

 awakened during the last portion of the year, which it is hoped may 

 continue. 



An excursion was made hy the Section on May *25th, which 

 seemed to he very satisfactory to those attending it. 



The Director would urge, if means can he found for the purpo.se, 

 the increase of the local collection, which, he helieves, could he made 

 of value. The chief expense of this would he in cases, as it is 

 probable that nearly all the specimens needed would he presented; 




1895.] NATt'RAI, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 581 



in fact a considerable nuniher have been promised as soon as case- 

 room is provided. 



At the meetiuL' of the Section, lield December 23d, the following 

 officers were elected for the eusuino^ year: — 



Director, ...... Theodore D. Rand. 



Vice-Director, ..... Wm. W. Jefferis. 



Conservator, ..... Wm. W. Jefferis. 



Treasurer, ...... John Ford. 



Corresponding Secretaru ") .., r, ..... 



^ ^ ^ ! C^has. Schatter, 



} 



and Recorder, 



Respectfully submitted, 



Theo. D. Rand. 



Director. 



REPORT OF THE ORNITHOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The work of cataloguin;^ and rearranging the Ornithological col- 

 lection has gone on steadily during the pa.st year; and, although not 

 (juite so many 8|)ecinien8 have been worked over as in the previous 

 year, this lia-s been more than compensated by the large increase in 

 the labelling and cataloguing. 



The Conservator has been enabled to devote a considerable amount 

 of his time to the work, as has ali^o Mr. McCad<len, the taxidermist, 

 while valuable a.ssistance ha.< been rendered by Mr. Henry W. 

 Fowler, Mis.*; Helen M. Higgin.s and .Mr. Wm. .1. Cerhard. 



During the year 4, 19.S mounted hpeciniens have been worked 

 over, the l»est of them being remounted antl the types and duplicates 

 reduced to skins, and all the material not hitherto named has been 

 carefully identified and catalogued. in addition to this a large 

 nuudier of temjM>rary lisU"! were copied into the regular catalogue, 

 which has now l)een brought up to date, while a considerable num- 

 ber of labels for specimens in the exhibition cases have been [tre- 

 pared. This work for the year aggregates 4,12.') labels written, and 

 9,079 entries in the catalogue. The groups renovated in the mounted 

 colle<aion com|)rised the ( alhartidie, FaIconid:i , Hubonid:e, Strigida. 

 Fringillid;e, l'ioceid:e, Laniid:e, Motacillid:e, Alaiidida-, Artamid: , 




5M2 PKOCEEDINQS OF TIIK ACADRMY OF [1895. 



and Dicjoida^, while specimens were renionnfed for exhibition in tlio 

 Muscicnpidio. Oriolidio, I)icrnri(i;e. and ('anipophajjidie. 



Tlie accessions dnring the year have amoinited to 1,020 speci- 

 mens, the most iin|X)rtant being a collection ol' birds from Pennsyl- 

 vania and New Jersey, presented by S. N. Hhoads, a small collection 

 of Pennsylvania birds from Dr. Thos. 11. Montgomery, a small 

 collection from Tennessee made duiiiig May and Jnne by Mr. S. N. 

 Rhoads, and a well-monnted collection of game bii'ds from Mr. A. 

 Sydney Logan. A tine pair of Flamingoes has been purchased for 

 mounting, and a nund)er of valuable specimens from the Zoological 

 Society of Philadelphia have been prepared, either as moinited speci- 

 mens, skins or skeletons. 



The southeast room ou the gallery Hoor of the library was placed 

 at the disposal of the Section early in the year, and the entire col- 

 lection of skins removed to it, where they are nmch more accessible 

 to the student; while the enlarged quarters furnish increased facili- 

 ties for work in this department. One large tin case for the preser- 

 vation of type specimens has been provided during the year, as well 

 as twenty wooden packing cases for the temporary storage of duplicate 

 specimens of large water birds and birds of prey. 



The entire collection of skins has been examined during the year 

 and found to be in excellent condition. 



The Delaware Valley Ornithological Club has rendered valuable 

 aid to the Section in antusing a lively interest in ornithology in this 

 vicinity. It continues to hold its meetings at the Academy and to 

 contribute many valuable specimens to the collection of local birds. 

 as well as to the general collection. 



Much assistance has been rendered during the year to students in 

 the way of identifying material, etc., and specimens have also been 

 loaned to specialists. 



The work of renovating the old mounted collection has advanced 

 so far that it is hoped that it may be entirely completed during the 

 coming year, with the excejjtion of laheiling and final arrangement. 

 This cannot be accomplished until new dust-proof exhibition cases 

 are provided, and the advisability of procuring these at an early 

 date cannot be too earnestly urged. 



At the annual meeting of the Section, hehl December 16th, 1895, 

 the following officers were elected : — 




1895.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 583 



Director, 



Vice-Director, 



Recorder, 



Secretary, 



Treasurer and Conservator, 



. Dr. Spencer Trotter. 

 . George S. Morris. 

 . Stewardson Brown. 

 William A. Shryock. 

 Witmer Stone. 

 Respectfully suhinitted, 



Witmer Stone, 



Conservator. 



REPORT OF THE ANTHROPOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The Anthropological Section of the Academy, the formation of 

 which was authorized hy vote? of the Academy on April 23d and 

 30th, 1895, was organized on the evening of April 30th, Dr. Harrison 

 Allen being chosen as Chairman, Charles Morris as Secretary and 

 Treasurer. It ha.s held meetings in May, October, November and 

 December, and has received special communications from Mr. John 

 Ford on Indian grave mounds, from Drs. Mills, Ball and others 

 on brain and skull flegeneration, ami from Dr. Sharp on the 

 Ethnology of Alaska and Siberia. Twenty-eight members have 

 joined the Section. A meeting for organization was held in Decem- 

 ber, at which the following officers were elected: — 



Director, ...... Harrison Allen, M.D. 



Vice-Director, . . Dr. ('. N. I'eirce. 



Recorder, ...... Charles Morris. 



Secretary and Conservator, . M. V. Ball. 



CirARLi>i Morris, 



Recorder. 



REPORT UF THE PROFESSOR OF INVKKTEBIJATE 

 PALEONTOLOGY. 



The Prof»'.><9or of Invertebrate J'aleontology respectfully reports 

 that tilt* condition of the collections that were under his charge until 

 Deceml)er Ist — wheji his <lutie8 became a.>woeiated with the Depart- 

 ment of Geology — remains much as it was at the lime of the liling 

 of the last ainuial report. As for a number years pa.«st, the one 

 great obstacle to arrangement and cla.ssification in the deficiency 




584 pk<K'Eh:i)in(*s ok thk acadkmy ok [1895. 



of exhil)iti()ii-ro()iu and cases ; indeed, at the present time, there is 

 even less room than heretofore, owing to the necessary division of tlie 

 main hall into a section devoted to entomological interests. Only 

 with occupancy of the new hall can proper relief he expected. 



The usual spring course of lectures has followed as a continua- 

 tion of the courses of past years, and it is gratifying to he ahlc to 

 report that the attendance has been steadily increasing year hy year, 

 the enrolled students for the past season ninnhering 1 16. Emphasis 

 is again laid on that portion of the instruction which is a.ssociated 

 with field-work, when an opportunity is given to examine practically 

 much of that which is first illustrated in the class-room. In addi- 

 tion to the regular Saturday field-parties, the course included, for a 

 limited number, an examination in the month of August of the 

 Rocky Mountain region, when the practicability of so extended a 

 class- excursion was clearly demonstrated. The region studied com- 

 prised sections of Colorado, Wyoming, Utah and New Mexico, and 

 specifically the Pike's Peak district, gold mines of Cripple Creek, 

 "bad lands," Great Salt Lake, canons of the Price, Grand and 

 Arkansas Rivers, the volcanic masses of the San Juan, etc. 



As Professor of Geology, the undersigned would respectfully 

 recommend, the disposition of the geological materials of the 

 Academy, space in the new hall, and that enough of it he given 

 for that form of display which is now a part of the method of almost 

 every new museum. A geological exhibition means not merely a 

 display of rock specimens for themselves, but illustration of the 

 dynamics and economics of the science. Therefore, sections of rock- 

 strata, models of geological structure, well and coal borings, etc., 

 are eminently necessary for a proper or modern exhibition. 

 Respectfully submitted, 



Angelo Heilprin, 

 Prof, of Invert. Paleontology (to Dec, 1895), 



now ProJ. of Geology. 




1895.] NATIJRAI. SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 585 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF ETHNOLOGY 

 AND ARCHAEOLOGY. 



The Professor of Etlinoloiry and Arch;eoloe:y rejwrts that (luring 

 the current year a reiruhir course of lectures on his l)ranch was de- 

 livered in the Lecture Hall of the Academy. The audience was 

 large, and a growing interest was manifested in the subject. 



The collections in thi.« department are in process of installation 

 in the new building and a portion of them is satisfactofily dis- 

 |)layed. With proper facilities all the objects illustrating this im- 

 portant branch of natural history in possession of the Academv. 

 can now be grouped together and opened for inspection. 



D. G. Brinton, M.D., 



Professor of Etinioloyy. 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF INVERTEBRATE 

 ZOOLOGY. 



The I'rofessor of Invertebrate Zoology respectfully reports that 

 during the past year he has delivered two lectures, one upon "Corals 

 and the Coral Islands," and one upon "Zoological Gardens." 



The additions to the nui.seum during the year have l>een neither 

 numerous nor im|X)rtant. 



The course of lectures planned and mentione«l in the report of last 

 year was not delivered owing to pre|)arati()n for and departure 

 u|X)n an expedition to Bering Sea, the Arctic Ocean and adjacent 

 shores. 



Permission was obtained from the Treasury Department of the 

 United States to accompany the U. S. Revenue ('utter "Bear" 

 during her cruise in the Arctic Ocean. The Aleutian and Seal 

 Lslands and the northern shores of Siberia and Alaska were visited. 

 Collections were made at all points where it was possible. Collec- 

 tions of plants, birds, marine forms an<l native implements were 

 among the most important made. The skin of a walrus an<l the skins 

 of a male, iV-male and young fur seal were olitained. For per- 

 mi-ssiou to secure the skins ot" the fur seals the Academv is imlebted 

 to the special favor of the I . S. Treasury Department. 



As the collections were not received until after the close ol' the 

 fiscal year, a report upon them must be <lef»-rre<l. 



A course of six lectures on the " InHuence of the Environment 




586 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1859. 



U|)on Aninuil Life" will be deliverod in .Inminry uiul Fehniary, 1896, 

 aud duriiij; the spring two lectures iu udditiou will be ji;iven upon 

 the results of the Alaskau and Siberian expedition. 



Respecfully submitted, 



Benj. Sharp, 

 Prof, of Invert. Zoology. 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF HISTOLOGY AND 

 MICROSCOPIC TECHNOLOGY. 



The Professor of Histology and Microscopic Technology respect- 

 fully reports that he hiis given laboratory instruction in microscopic 

 technic and carried on. as heretofore, original research in bacteri- 

 ology. 



The gifts of instruments and slides will be reported by the 



Biological Section. 



Samuel G. Dixon, 

 Prof, of Histolocjy and Microscopic Technology. 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF MALACOLOGY. 



The Professor of Malacology reports that there have been added 

 to the museum several thousand species of mollusks ; among others, 

 the types of many new forms of Polyplacophora and Achatinellidie, 

 and an alcoholic specimen of Xai(fi/ns pompHitu^ may be mentioned. 

 The Tectibrauchiata have been studied and identified, and an illus- 

 trated monograph of the group has been published. Other niuseum 

 work has been begun on the identification and classification of the 

 South American Bulimi. 



One lecture upon the "Protective Devices of Mollusks" has been 

 delivered. A course of five lectures upon the structure and classi- 

 fication of mollusks, and two lectures upon ' ' Economic Uses of 

 Mollusca" and " Mollusks of the Atlantic Coast" will be delivered 

 during February, March and April of the coming year. 



Respectfully submitted, 



H. A. PiLSBRY, 



Prof, of Malacology. 




1895.] NATl'KAI- SCIENCES OK Pil f I.ADKKJ'H I A. 587 



KEPOKT OF THE CURATOR OF THE WILLIAM S. 

 VAUX COLLECTIONS. 



The Curator of the William S. Vaux Collections reports that 

 tlie niiiieralogical cabinet is in good order. There are a num- 

 ber of specimens which, too large to i)e placed in the present cases, 

 are exposed to the dust and liable to be injured. A special case 

 should be provided for them. Since his appointment as Curator 

 he has added 618 specimens to the collection, bringing the num- 

 ber up to 7,780. 



The archjeological collectiou is al.so in good condition, but no 

 additions have been made to it during the pjist year. 



Wm. W. Jkfkkris, 



Curator. 




588 



PR()CKKI)IN«S OK rilK AC'ADK.MV ()!• 



[1H95. 



The election of Officers, Councillors and Members of the Finance 

 Coniniittoe to serve during' 1S9(). wns held witli the r(>ll()\viii<:; re- 

 sult : — 



Preshhuif, 

 Vict'-Prt»lilriits, 



Recordiucf Secretary, 



CorrexpoiKVunj St'orrl<trti, 



TreaKiirer, 



Libraria)!, 



Curator.'*, 



Councilloi'S to serve three yearK, 



Finance. Comniittef, 



Council, to merve for f<H unex- 

 pired teiin 



Samuel G. Dixon, M.D. 

 Thomas Meeliau. 

 Rev. Heiiry C. McCook. D.I). 

 Edward J.'NoliiM. M.D. 

 Benjaniiii Sharp, M.D. 

 (leorge Vaux, Jr. 

 Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 

 Henry A. Pilsbry. 

 Henry C Chapman, M. D. 

 Arthur Erwin Brown. 

 8amuel G. Dixon, M.D. 

 Uselma C. Smith. 

 William Sellers. 

 Charles E. Smith. 

 John Cadwalader. 

 Charles Morris, 

 Chas. E. Smith. 

 Uselma C. Smith. 

 William Sellers. 

 Charles P. Perot. 



Isaac J. Wistar. 



ELECTIONS DURING 1895. 



MEMBERS. 



January 29. — R. Shirley Borden, Frank Haimhach. 



February 26. — Silas L. Schumo. 



March ^(?.— Edwin S. Dixon, Harry Blake Tyler, J. W. Horter, 

 M.D., Charles L. Brown, Willett E. Rotzell, M.D. 



April 30. — Frederick Prime, Sol. R. Fridenberg, Lightiiei- Wit- 

 mer. 



May 28.— H. G. Griffith, M.D., W. J. Gillespie, M.D. 



August ^7.— Chas. W. Burr, M.D. 




1895.] NATtHAI, SCIENCES OK PHII.ADKIJ'HI A. 589 



October i't. — John M. Justice, Howard W. Dm Bois, Charles C. 

 Harrison. 



Novetnber i6. — Gulielina M. S. P. Jones, Wilfred H. Harued, 

 Seneca Egbert, .M.D., Samuel H. Gilbert, W. \V. Frazier, John 

 Cadwalader, Jr. 



( OKKKSFONDKNl'S. 



Febntary i<l. — P. H. Sarasin, of Bjusel ; I). E;<tanislao S. Zebal- 

 lo8, of the Argentine Republic. 



Ajn-il SO. — Rudolph Virchow, of Berlin. 




590 PROCEEDINQS OF THI': AC'ADKMY UV [1895. 



ADDITIONS TO THE MUSEUM. 



1895. 



Akch.koi-ooy, KrnNoi.offY, ktc. 



Dr. M. V. Hall. Five human hraiiis (criminal). 



Frank Chew, ('ulleetion <>f Indian axes and urrowheadn, Maryland. 



.John (J. Meigs' Bequest. Nine human crania, including five Ktrus- 

 can skulls from Corneto, Italy. 



C. B. Moore. Large collection of aboriginal mound relics, including 

 implements, pottery, ornaments and human crania aud skeletons 

 from central Florida. Two pre-Columbian crania of Huron-Iro- 

 quois Indians, Ontario. 



H. E. Sargent. One tray sherds pottery, Tennessee River, Ala. 



Dr. Benjamin Sharp and l*rof. Tiibbey. Ten Kanaka skulls, Sand- 

 wich Islands. 



Mammals. 



Thomas Biddle. Articulated skeleton of Hjt/fohafes m'yKeri, Sara- 

 wak, Borneo. 



Dr. S G. Dixon. Ear-bone of seal, Islesboro, Me. 



J. Edward Farnuni. Mounted Cephaloplnoi nutaUnisiH, E. Africa. 



Herman Haupt, Jr. Skulls of Arctomi/x and Scalop-s, ^Nlinnesotaand 

 Illinois. 



Dr. J. M. McFarlaue. F'our skulls of Jiaiigifer caribou, Quebec. 



C B. Moore. One skin aud skull of Peromyncus floridanus. 



Chas. P. Perot. Tympanic bone of whale. 



H. A. PJlsbry. One mounted Scinropterus volans, Philadelphia. 



Purchased. One mounted OreainmoH hiontanua, Cascade Mts., Wash- 

 ington (juv.). Skin and skull of Raiufifer carihou, Maine. 



Mounted specimen of A/cfs a/nn-icamoi, Maine. 



S. N. Rhoads. One mounted Neotonid. mafihtfr and one skin of 

 Mephitis mephitica. 



H. E. Sargent. Skull of Procyon lofor, Alabama. 



Dr. B. Sharp. Two shrews and one sea otter skin (juv.), Alaska. 



S. Thonapson. Mastodon fragment, Mt. Holly, N. J. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Mounted specimens of ZalojJhns 

 calif or7iianuK (2), Jtanyifer caribou, Ca>itor fiber ca iiadfunis ('!), 

 Macropm ualabatun, t'ounocketes ynou, Fe/is leo, Danyproctu fuli- 

 yinoHa, Tainaiidua irtradactyla, Dattyprocta crixUda, I), varir- 

 gata, Ursus maritiinun, Antdope cervicapra, Felia viverrina, Midas 




1895.] NATl'KAl, SCTENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 591 



rujimaims, Cijitocepfuilus atiubis aud Atherura africaua. Skeletous 

 of M(i(-actis ochredtua, Paradoxurus (sp.?), Capromys (.sp. ?), M((- 

 zama temama, Kobus cUfaHini8{'l), Biaon bison, Capreolim capreohis , 

 Cermtn porcinn», Cainefuti bacirianuH, Melursus labiatim, ViUpea 

 re/ox aud Erethizon dorsatua. Skitiis of P(i?-fidox(n-ii.s (sp.?), Da«)/- 

 procfa (sp.?), Lemur (»\).'*), Macropim (h[}.'^), Cajjro)ii_i/ii(Hp.'7), J)a)<i/- 

 procta acoui-hi/, Mdzanin temama (2). Kol}iift flf/fissiia (2), Bison 

 bison (juv.) a.iid Vnljjes vtlox. Skullw of DaHi/provta fuliginosa, 

 IJapale aurita, Tarnandua tttritdactyta, I)(i.v/pro(;ta cristata, D. 

 variegata, Mazama temama and ihfnoctplialas anubvi. 



HiKDS. 



\V. L. Haily. One Acadian owl skin, Pennsylvania. 



A. I J. IJiick waiter. One parrot. 



-Mrs. M. .J. Ch£i.we. Nine mounted Hi)ecimens and two skins, Cali- 

 fornia. One hundred and eighteen skins, mostly Trochilidfe. 



Delaware Valley Ornithological Cluh. Korty-one mounted l)inls and 

 seven nests and sets of eggs. 



Dr. .S. (i. Di.\on. Mounted MdKinris (jdUopcuo, N'irginia. 



Mis.s irnia F. Ilering, One mounted O/o/- colmnbidiins. 



Ill e.xi'hange. One skin of \i/r(Ki ii>/c<ffi, (Greenland. 



.\. Sydney Logan. Forty-eight mounted sjjecimens of game l)irds. 



T. H. .Montgomery, Jr. 8eventy-si.\ skins, Pennsylvania and Maine. 



George H. Morris. Eighteen skins. 



Purchased. Twenty-six skins, California. Two nkiiis I'lm uicopt^rvs 

 riibrr, two skins Ardm (UKruli ft. 



S. N. Ilh<iads. Six hundred aud eighty skins of Pennsylvania and 

 New Jersey birds. Three nkins I)< ndrdgapusfrdnklini. 



Tenuesfctee Fx|)editioii ; coikM-ted l)y S. N. Hlioads. Fifty-eight birtl 

 skins. 



Zoological Society of I'iiiladcipliia. Mouiilcd sjjctimcii of I'nophin 

 riridiK. Skins (»f I'sophin riridis, Xi ndirhi cdxt<iiird, I)oniini<rJl(( 

 rubra, and Psittdciin t ritluicux. Skeletons of Sfruf/iin <(iiidluH, 

 ArgnnianuH arijns (2), linteo vnli/aris. 



|{Krrii,h> .\.M» M.\ ri<A< iiiANS. 



.laiiK'.-* I?ia<llcy. One !)< rnidrUi li/i^ < oridn a, .Xnliury I'ark, .\ . .1. 



I. .\. Dcllaveii. Out' Aiiib/i/sfo/nn /jimc/dfuni, .\r<lmurc, l*a. 

 .1 . Ho|»e. One \ditt buuf/drn. 



II. .\. Pilwl»iy. I*'ifleen reptiles and Kalracliian."*, I'"l<iri<la. 



S .\ KlioudN 1 |'',.\p. toTenncHHcei. Two hundred and sixty-Hj.x M|>eci- 

 niens Keptilia and Matractiia, Kentucky and Tennes.Hec. Fifteen 

 reptiles, Fl<»rida. Seventy-nine sjieclmenH, SomerMct Co., .\. J. 



Witaier Stone. I'(»ur turtleM, (-'hester ('«»., Pa. 




•^92 r'HOCKKIUNOS 1>F THK ACADKMY OK [1895. 



Dr. R. H. Tuylor. One rattlesnake, W. VirRinia. 



. One Ml iiOf}()ni<i (ilhf/hniiftisis. 



Zoologicul 8<H'iety of Philadelphia. Alcoh«)lif Hpi'dmeiiH of Stfnio- 

 tlimix derhifinim, 1'roinnxti.r /idrdivickii, l\iftlinii nio/uruH, Nnid 

 hnn(/(ti-<i (2), I'afiiiiKx nUo/iriiK, TrdchffoephdliiH niannoi'((fiis and 

 /f,i/f(t arbnr<ft. 



KiSllKS. 



\\\\\. Vj. Meehaii. i'liirtocii (iffornu'd SdliiK) j'(>iiti)i(ili><, V. S. Fish 



C'oiuniissioii, Alleiilow u, Pa. 

 Dr. T. D. Myei^H. Two I/t/fiopsis /lu/nf/d/iis, Monot-acy liiver, Md. 

 Me><8r8. Pilshry and John.soii. Arhirus /inrafus, Lake George, Fla. 

 . Lophiiiii piHcatoriuti, lower Delaware Miver. 



Ckustacka. 



(ieo. H. t'lapp. Three Hpeci mens of Cambaru-s virilU, Canada. 

 John Thoiuprton. One Limulus poLyphemus, Cape May, N. J. 



Insects. 



('. \V. .lohnwon. One case of Dipf6ra, Pennsylvania and New Jersey. 



.MisH A. H. Miller. Hornet's nest, Lawrenceville, Va. 



S. N. Rhoads. 'J'hree Ci/c/irus, one ('/la/rophorus, New .Jersey and 



Tennessee. 

 Dr. H. 8kinner. One case of L< pidojAf r((, Pennsylvania and New 



Jersey. Three Lepklopicvd. 

 Miss J. D. Winsor. Three Beetles. 



liOWKK InVKK'IKBKATKS. 



Henry Di.xon. Three trays Diploria (■crehriSonnia, Hennnda. 

 .John Ford. One Fjxch<in:ll(i VdridbUiH (\u\\), Ocean City, X. J. 

 ('om. P'orsyth, U. S. N. Two Bri-sims jjectord/is, liahanias. 

 C. W. Johnson. One Melitodea ochrdcea, Tonga Isi. 



iNVKJrj'KliltATE FOSSII.S. 



A. A. Alexander. One Ainmonitrn pldceiita, fiCnola, N. .1. 



W. W. Jefleris. One MotUictdipdra If/cnperdon , (ilens Falls, N. V. 



Louis Woolman. Seven trays, Greenwich, N. J. 



RKCENT M()I>MJSC'A. 



Anaetasio Alfaro (National Museum of Costa Rica). Seventy-two 



speciniens, Salinas Bay, Costa Rica. 

 Dr. Harrison Alien. Ifijdliiid arbonn. .Nanlut-kel Island. 

 Mrs. Geo. Andrews. Land shells, P>lack .Mts., with types of two new 



species. 




1895.1 NATI'RAL SCIENCES OF PHII-AnKr,PHTA. 593 



A. W. Anthony. Five species (alcoholic^. 



I). I>. Baldwin. Large eollection of AcltatineUidie, with typen of 



thirty-Hve new species and eleven species in alcohol. 

 E. A. Barber. Hciicodontd (ihrofitUt, England lalcoholict. 

 Mrs. Beanian. Nine species West Mexican marine shells. 

 W. T. Beduall. Twenty-nine species (marine), Sonth Anstralia. 



E. A. Bielz (iu exchange). One hundred and sixty-two sjiecies, 

 Transylvania. 



F. E. Bianes. Ciihan IftHi-t^a in alcohol. 



H. Clay Borden. l^hjijHa, Pa.; Helix dxpn-a, banana luindi i al<"oholict. 

 Chas. .S. Boyer. Oatried, Japan. 



B. Buckingham. Two species, I^ermuda. 



J. H. Campbell. Specimens of Acant/toe/iids. 



Mrs. G. \V. Carpenter. Forty-three species of marine shells. 



J. E. Chilberg. /'oft/(/>/ra foirnseixliana, living. 



(leo. H. Clapp. Nine species, living ]"itriu(i I'nnpidn. 



Conchological Section. One hundred and twenty-eight species (pur- 

 chased • 



.M. Cossmann (in exchange). Fourteen species of land and fresh- 

 water shells. 



P. Z, Cox (in exchange). 'J'wo species Zuihi, \\. Africa. 



O. A. Crandall. Twenty-two trays of Phyxa; Texan land slid Is. 



Jas. Crawford. Sixteen species, Soutli .\frica. 



W. H. Dall. Twenty-tw<» species. 



Ph. I)aut/.enl)erg (in exchange). Thirty species of land shells, 

 ToiKpiiu. 



Ftev. A. Dean. Four species. Afrii-an : three American. 



O. Debeaux. Fifty species of North African land shells, in exchange. 



\V. H. De Camp. Two species of fresh-water shells. 



.1. M. Delaney. Specimens of /y«Z/a o/«/*////. 



Dr. S. («. Dixon. Four species, Maine. 



Dr. C. S. Dollcy. I-'ive sj»ecies of land mollusks, Italy. 



Mrs. H. F. Duight. I"'ive specie** marine shells. 



John Ford. lM»rty-t\\o sjiecies. 



W.J. Fox. '["wenty-lhree spcfies, Wist N'iiginia, and other speci- 

 mens. 



-Mrs. E. .M (iaylord. :<\k-i'uih\\!* i>f C/nu/ifi /k f/mif/a. 



Dr. W. D. Ilaitman. .^f' /miiu i-m/iiuntiti. 



< 'has. Medley. .Spcijmens of land shells, Australia. 



.1. I'.. Ilendersuh. Nineteen species of Januiica land slielln in abohol. 



.\. .\. llinkley. I'en species, S/n jxunn/idit. 



(Jeo. .\. JIubbard. Sfnthi/oftn fvmii .Minnesota. 



I>r. \\ . !•;. ilughcs. /'nfi/t/i/ni fit ii/ij'i ffi, i'num\ti. 



I . \\ . ilutlon. S|»e<Mmens of C///7r</» «////-/f///-/. 



J. F. Ives. Three spe«*ies. 



W. W. Jed'eris. ('ti/njtr/inna uiul (nio, h't. Ivl^aid, N. ^. 




594 CKOCKKtHNCJS OK THK ACAUKMY OF [1895. 



('. \V. Johnson. Twenty-six species. 



I. .\. Luphani. Specimens of /'oin(i/i(t/>sis iincimmth iisis. 



F. K. liUtchfoid. Collection of Canadian luollusks. 



Ht>l>erts Le Houtilli(>r. Oxtrait rirf/ini(ni(i, near Boston. 



(4eo. liii'htenthalcr. /.iic(ij>iii(i and LucAtpiiulht in alcoiioi. 



Ceo. T. .Marston. Koiir species of fresh-water shells, Wisconsin. 



C'. J. Maynard (in c.vclianKfi. Sixty-six trays of Ctrioii. 



I). N. McCudden and Dr. W. !•; llii^hes. Seven species of \'ir^i;inian 



land shells. 

 J. D. Mitchell. Uitio niitckelli, Mdcotixt fainjjdeiixi-'i antl 'J'c/fiiKt 



niitchelli. 

 Wm. Moss, A new Flamniiilina from New Zealand, and other 



shells. 

 Mi.ss K. Miisson. One species <jf Ihlir. 

 C. F. Newcombe. Eifrhty species of marine shells dredj^ed near 



Victoria, li. C. 

 Dr. E. J. Nolan. Jlelix poindtia and 7/. (irhiisti)rinn, Bavaria. 

 A. H. Norton. Three sjjccies. 



(). A. Nylander. C»)llection of shells from northern Maine. 

 H. A. Pilsbry. Collection of Planorbes, mainly from Western and 



Southern States ; several species of land and marine raollusks. 

 John Ponsonby (in exchange). Thirty-seven s})ecies of land shells 



from Haiti and South Africa. 

 Ij'Abbc Provancher. Kight (Janadian species. 

 S. N. Hhoads. Mollusks from Washington and Pennsylvania. 

 John Richie, Jr. Four trays of shells. 

 S. K. Jloberts. Several species of land shells. 



H. W. Rojier. Tj'pesof Pdtelht krrnutdreeiim.'i; several land mollusks. 

 F. A. Sampson. Ponudiojiais intermedia, California, and four species 



laud shells (alcoholic). 

 H. E. Sargent. Fifty-five sjjccies of shells, Alabama and Minnesota; 



five species in alcohol. 

 M. Schepiuau. Marine shells from the Bahamas. 

 Morris Schick. Seven species of a<]Uatic mollusks. 

 Dr. B. Sharj). Twenty-live species. 

 Dr. H. Simroth. Soft parts of Dorcdnifi alcxniHlri. 

 U. C. Smith. Numerous Jamaica land shells. 

 Fr. Stearns. Twenty-two species of Japanese mollusks in alcohol; 



one species, Oahu. 

 R. E. C. Steams. Five species. 

 W. Stone. Planortyia dilatatus, Pennsylvania. 

 Ij. H. Streng. CfuniHloiiKi and B/iihiina, Michigan. 

 S. H. Stupakotr. P"'our species, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

 H. Suter. New Zealand and Tasmanian mollusks. 

 E. R. Sykes. Seven sj)ecies of marine mollusks. 




1895.] XATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 595 



['. S. Department Agi;pculture. Aninicota, Trj/oiiia, Bi/f/iinrfln, and 



FlnmUticoUi from Nevada and " Death Valley." 

 E. G. Vanatta. Ten sjMifies of shells. 

 H. D. V^an Xostrand. Three species of Orion; eleven species of 



luarine shells, Japan. 

 Bryant Walker. Several .Michigan luuUusks. 

 Robert Walton. Four hundred and tifty species. 

 11. H. Watson. Collection of Madeira luollusks in alcohol. 

 G. W. Webster. Strobilops, Florida 



A. (i. Wetherby. I^and mollusks, Tennessee and North Carolina. 

 Chas. r^e Roy Wheeler. Several mollusks from Ca|>e May. 

 Geo. Williamson (in exchangei. Collection of Louisiana mollusks. 

 Willard M. Wood. ZouittH, San Francisco, (.'al. 

 li. Woolmau. Two sj>ecies, fresh-water mollusks, New Jersey. 

 Purchased by subscription. Xditd/ns jj(»n/jUiii.s L., in alcohol. 



Plan'I's. 



.Mrs. JJailol. lirijophi/lhun valycinuin and lioni/itimullfd ulnhra, 

 cultivated, Florida. 



Geo. -M. Beringer. T\\ enty-nine species of l\ii<-nlfii>tus, ••uitivated in 

 (.'alifornia. 



Walter Deauc. Lrinna rttldiciaini, Randolph, .Ma.ss. 



Dr. Geo. E. Davenport. Aspkliuni siinnUttmn ami AsjiiiUm/i <tv<- 

 tatiini X inan/iiifde, Masnachusetls. 



J. B. Ellis. Century Thirty-three, North .\nierlcaii Fungi. 



Dr. E. \a. (.Treene. One hundred and eleven species, northern Cali- 

 fornia j)lants. 



Dr. U. .\. (jJreene (through ( Jeo. .M. l'.t.'ringer>. Ihirly-lhree specie's 

 .North .American .Marine Aig.c 



Wm. Hacker. Forty-eight species North .\merican plants. 



Herbarium of Harvard I'niversity. Two hundred and forty-lixc 

 species of New Foundland plants collected liy H. L. liobinson ami 

 H. Hchrenk. 



Roberts De Boutillici. i'niil of IIhIikIu sininlt nx from .lamaicu. 



Thomas .Meehan. Itavcnel's Fungi Caroliniani E.xsiccati, Fascicles 

 F\' and \'. Si.\ty-live s|)ecics of North .Vmerican plants. Two 

 hundred and lifty-three s|»e<'ies of Xhxo. Minor plants collected 

 l)y iiornmiillcr : four hundred and twenty-live Mexican jilanlH col- 

 lected by<'. (i. I'ringle: one hmxired anil tuenty-six species of 

 .\/,ores Island plants collected by < *. S. Bpiwm. 



Mrs. I'otts. Two hundred and tifty-tliree Hjiecies of plant.-- collected 

 in .\Bia .Minor liy Borniiiidler. 



John H. Redtieid. Seven Hpe<;ies of North Americiin plautn. 



i>r. Chas. Schiifler. Two hundred and lifly-tbri'c species of .\Hia 

 Minor plants collected by lionimuller. 

 40 




696 rKocKKoiNas of tiif acadrmv of [1896. 



Uttelma C. Smith. Seeds of Kntxidd scandens from Jamaica aii<J uiw 



hundred species of plants from .Iiimuifa. 

 Charles K. Smith. Two hundred and lifly-lhree species of Ania 



Minor plants. 

 Haron Ferdinauti XOn Miiller (through Thomas Mcehau i. Kleven 



species of Australian i)hinls. 



MINKKAI.S AND K<K'K.S. 



11. t'. Borden. Seven specimens of Pyrite, French (Jreek, Pa. 



li. T. Chamberlain. One Calcite, Alabama liiver, Ala. 



A. H. Fisher. Two trays. Obsidian and La/urite. 



Dr. E. G«)ldsmith. One Dolomite with Ciuartz, Belviderc, X.J. 



E. A. (Tioth. One (iarnet. Fairmount Park, Pa. 



H. Haupt, Jr. Fifteen specimen.^. Fnited States and Hussia. 



H. G. Ives. One Limouite. Chester Co., Pa. 



Mineralogical and (leological Section. Muscovite, C^heslcr ( 'o., Pa. 



Theo. D. Rand. One each. Talc and Cranophane, Pennsylvania and 



Georgia. 

 Lieut. Ruschenberger, U. S. N. Native Copper, Coquimbo, Chili. 

 Jas. F. Sullivan. J'etritied wood, 1! spec, (^ibbsboro, N. J. 

 Students Miueralogical (^hib. Twenty-four specimens, Pennsylvania. 

 William S. Vau.x Fund. One hundred and eighty-two specimens for 



Wm. S. Vaux collection of minerals. 



1 




1895.] 



XATl'RAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



597 



INDEX TO GENERA, ETC. 



Amphibia 894 



.Vinphionephes 836 



Aiiiphisphiuria . . 21, 23, 26, 418 



Ainphiunia 406 



Aiuyda 404 



Aiia« 467, 468 



Anati(he 467 



Aiic'illa 11.3-119. 122-129 



AiidieiiDsoiiia 824 



AnhiiiKu . .{SI, 466 



Aiihingitl;i" . ... 466 



AniHiip«>K"ii 828 



Auulis 404 



.\iioiiiia . . 100, KM, 114-124, 



128. 129 

 .\ii(iiilielc-s . 819 



.\iiseres . , 467 



.Aiithoiiiyia . 886 



Aiithoiuyida- . . . 88.3 



Antliostoiuella 424 



-Anthrax 8'J.3. 826 



AnthuH 49S 



.'\iitr<)Kt<innis . 484 



Aiiura 894. 40.3, 407 



Apex . . . 21.3. 219 



.\plysia 847-^30 



.\lio.-iphaeria . . 481 



.Vpporhais 14.3 



A<)iiila 464. 479 



.\rchitc<t<iiiifa 122 



.\rchyta.s . 882 



.\rct<>hta|ihyi<is 4.80 



.\r<-t<>ilu'riiiiii \\~ 



.\r<l('a . . 172 



.\r(K-i(lif 171 



.\r(l<-jla 172 



.\reMaria -lO.; 



.\rKiH I si 



Ar^yra . 82^ 



.VrKvraiiiu'l.a .!2-3 



.\n.iii.Mh«lyH 884.406 



.\niii<liiiaria 421 



.\H«'lepia>* . 4_''^ 



.\mc<h-|i\I;i 1.'. ; 




598 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1S95. 



Asilidii' 



AsiluB 804, 



Aspidoueetet' .... 88(5, 404, 



AHjiIeiiiuni 



Aster 4l'ii. .>-)0, 



Asteroiua 



Astacus 



Astarte 



Astyrie 



Asyndetus 



Atulapha 



Athoracophorus 



Atoiiiosia 

 Atiophopalims . . 



Atn>ph(>pt)da 



Atys 



Anriculella 



Avion la 



Aythya 4()8, 



Raccha 



Baecharis 



IJayfaniou ..'... 8S8, 



Hassariscus 



liatrachia 



Fiartramia 



Hela 



BeloHepia . . ll(j, 118, liiO, V22- 

 128, 



Belvosia .\]-2, 



Benibeeiuus 



Benihex Hoi, oo4- 



Benibidula :tol- 



Bibiu 



BibionidiL' 



Ricyrtes 



Bigt^lovia 



Bisioii 244 



Bithynis 



Bittar'omori)ha 



I>lariiia .■>81, 



Boisduvalia 



Bonibylidif 



BoiiibyliuHi 



Boiiasa 



I'.orboridii; 



BorophaguH 



Boreonia 



Fiotaurus 



Fiotrvodiplodia 



FiotryoHphaeria 



Ficnista 



FiracFiycoma ... 

 liraohydeutera . 



FirachyHporiuin 



Firanta 470, 



FiraHenia 287, 



Bubal us 



Bubo 



32;^ 

 824 

 40() 

 484 

 ■VjI 

 481 

 178 



48 



74 

 828 



82 

 2;-{7 

 828 

 888 

 888 

 127 

 214 

 117 

 4(ii> 

 880 

 488 

 891 

 447 

 447 

 474 



ti4 

 124, 

 180 

 882 ■ 

 2(5fi 

 -8H2 

 -8.54 I 

 819 I 

 819 

 2Hfi 

 440 I 

 -248 

 178 

 820 

 882 

 .i47 



Bufi> 



Bufouidio . . 

 BulbifusuH . . 

 15uliiiielia 97, 



117, 122, 127, 



82H 

 47r, 



840 

 449 

 08 

 471 

 488 

 482 

 414 

 882 

 8:!8 

 440 

 471 

 288 

 247 

 480 



114, 120, 12:^, 12.5- 

 . . IIH, 119, 128, 



Fiulla . . 

 Buteu . . 

 Byssoaroa 

 CaduluH . 

 C'lenia . . 



Calaniagrostis 



C'alainita 



Oalcarius 



Calidris 



Callipbora 



CalliHte 2.51, 



Calobata 800, 



Cal(>H|)h;eria 



Calosjiiza 2.51, 



Caiv{)tr()ph<)ius 97, 100. 114, 

 lis. 180, 14.5, 147, 



Cani|ianula 



Canipephilu.x 



(JanipsiunemuH 



Caiiiploiieura 



Caticellaria H.5-07, 97, 114. 122. 

 127, 



Cancer 178, 



CaniH 



CapiMxliuni 



( 'apriiuulgida- 



("arcella 



CardiualiH 



Carex 



Caiicea 



CaricellaH7, 08, 114, IKi, 117, 



('arnivora 



Carpliojiliis 



Carphotricba 



('arpodacus 



CasHidaria 1 14, 1 )(>, 



Cantauea 481, 



Castilleia 



(:!ast(jr 



("atliariHta 



(JatharteH 



Catliartida- 



( 'ecidoiuyidM- 



('ela.xtrus 



C'eltiM 



( 'eiiaogelia 



Oenangiurii 



Ceoplilfi'UH 



Cepphus .502, 



('era.stoTHa 



Ceratojtogon 808, 



('eratoHtoniella .... 2^^,80, 



890 

 390 



71 

 21.5, 

 217 

 122 

 479 

 -180 

 127 

 889 

 .544 

 897 

 .505 

 .508 

 88.5 

 2-52 

 880 



20 

 2.52 

 llo, 

 1.59 

 .544 

 484 

 328 

 887 

 12;-i, 

 1.30 

 182 



48 

 414 

 484 

 888 

 491 

 544 

 88.5 

 119, 

 12.5 

 447 

 898 

 887 

 4'^8 

 119 

 48.5 

 428 

 447 

 477 

 477 

 477 

 819 

 482 

 421 

 429 

 428 

 488 

 .504 

 417 

 820 

 418 




1896.] 



NATIJRAr, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



599 



Ceraturgus 

 (_'ereo8p< ira 

 Ceria . . . 

 Cerion . 

 Cerithiiiiu 



T!», 114. 



Ceinuia 



Cero«poiella 



(Jerthia 



(.'erlhiidif 



Ceryie . . 



ChtetX)gl«jHsa 



Chaitomiuni 



ChaitopsiH 



ChtetoHphtvfia 



Chajtura . 



Charadriida- 



Charitunetta 



Chelidon 



Chelonia . 



Chelydra . 



Chelvdrida- 



Cheil. . 



Cheropliiiii^ . 



Chironotmir* . 



Chiruijuiiiyida' 



Chloroitis 



ChlonM^pieiiimi 



ChoiideBtert . . 



('hoiidri)tu.>» 



(Jhordeiles 



Chonjphilu.'^ 



Chortuphila 



(.'hrvHeMiv.- . 



( 'hrvHodnnms 



ChrvHDjfaHter 

 Chry-^iiniyia 

 Chryrtopiia . 

 ChryHopH . . 

 ChrysotUH 

 Ciboria 

 ("ibota 

 Cimbiuia . 

 Circus . . 

 CladoHporiiiiii 

 Clatigula . 

 Clathurellu . 

 OlaviUthf* 



. 823 



4H8, 439 



331 



•Mi--no 



ll^S. 12<), \2l, 



14o, 147 



. o'2 



. 438 



49y 



. 499 



. 482 



333 



IH) 



.!37. 338 



21 



484 



474 



.... 4(59 



... 492 



383, 403, 40») 



. . . 38« 



. 388 



47(», .503 



178, 182 



320 



320 



•SIS, 339 



429 



489 



107 



484 



397 



.... 33(i 



. . . . 40H 



12:^, 124, 127, 



128 



. . 329 



4<)9, 

 73. 74. 113-121. 



(JleigaMtra 

 CliHta . 

 Clivlcola 

 Clytiuinyia 

 Cncniidoj)horii^ 

 CoccygCH 

 CoccyzuM . 

 CochleariH 



335 

 323 

 321 

 328 

 428 

 1 22 



»)7 

 178 

 439 

 .J03 



H4 

 12.5. 

 130 

 336 

 .3:^3 

 492 

 333 



wm 



482 

 482 

 -.44 



C<jeuo8ia h:;.5, 33H 



Colaptes 483 



(,*<jliiiUK 47o 



Coluber 382, 391, 407 



Coiubridje 387 



Columbigalliiia ... 47H 



C(>l3iiibu8 46o 



Coiujwoiuyia ;^3o 



Coiupsothlypis 49.5 



Coiiiothcciuni 433 



CuiiopidiL' ... 331 



CouopH SH] 



Couiupus 48.5, 48t) 



ConuruH 464, 480 



ConuH 0-5, 114-129 



Curbula -52. 97. 103, 11:^130, 1.59 



Curdvluridif HSt; 



Curniilina 1 17, 1 18, 12;'., 12-5 



CoruuH .544 



(.'urvida- 48(i 



< "orvus 48(>, .504, .50.5 



Cottida' 410 



i;H^-l»t; 

 174. 193 



174-181 



. . 173 



48,49. 112. 114-120, 



14.5, 147 



. . 339 



Craiigoii . 



Ciaugouida' 



CrasHatella 



Cra.s8iHeta 



CrataeguH 432 



CiiretodipuH .... 270, 271-27.5 



Crocodilia 403 



Cnx'odiluf* 10.5 



(Jrocuta 448, 449 



Crotalida- ... .•{!♦.•} 



Crotalophoruei . 40.5 



CrotaluH . . ;{93 



Cry])t()braiichidM' . . 403 



Cryptobraiu'hns ... 4(W, 40H 



(JryptoHpliMTia 27 



Cu'cuiida- 482 



('uculla^a 4.5, 145-147 



Cucurbilarin 

 Cule.K 

 Culi«'ida' 

 {.'uterebra 

 Cyanocitla . 



< 'ylichiieila . 

 (.'ylludrohporiiiiii . 



< 'yinbiola 

 ('yjini-a 

 (\vrtop<)g(ni 

 C'vtherea 97, 114 116, 



123, 124, 12S-l.S(t, 14H. 

 Cytoplea 

 had vlotii vi.'i . 

 Dafifa 

 Dalruaiiia 

 UaHylllH 

 Degeeriu 



118, 

 147 



420 

 3)9 

 319 

 .3.51 

 48() 



.54 

 43,5 

 122 



78 

 .323 

 120, 

 2.52 

 432 

 329 

 46H 

 XM 

 324 

 .3.34 




tU)0 



HRCK'KKMINGS OK 



■AH: 



Deiidroiru 4t)4, 495, 45»(i 



Dentalium 97. 113, 114,116, 122. 

 V2.\. rJo, 1-J<i. 128. I HO, 147, loD 



Deroinyia ;>2.'>, ;{24 



l)ef<nii)giKitliicli> 

 Ue^iuogiiatluis 

 Dexidii^ . 

 Deyeuxia . 

 Diai'hioius . . 

 Diadopliis . . 

 Diajihonis 

 Diatrypella 

 Dich;i'ta . . . 

 Dicianoiiiyia . 

 Didelphys . . 

 Didymella 

 DidyinosphaTia 

 Didynidtrirhia 

 DieinyctyluH . 

 l)iem)|>lu!< 

 Dillwyiielia 

 Dilopiius . 

 Diospyros . . 

 Diostraohus 

 Dlpalta 

 Diplarthra 

 Diplodia . 

 Diplodiiia . . 

 Dlplosis . 

 Dipodidse 

 Dipodomys 

 DipuH .... 

 Discosia . . . 

 Distortio . . 



HSl 



40<t 

 4(KI 

 ;{.S4 

 415 

 H21 

 405 

 H28 

 42G 

 8H8 

 320 

 381 

 421 

 421 

 21 

 , 400, 405 



43 



531 



S4. 85 



319 



441 



328 



325 



447 



433 



434 



319 



270-286 



270. 272 



270, 271, 272 



.... 29 



114, IIH, 118, 119, 



122-129 



Ditrupa 122 



Dizouia'* 323 



Dolichogaster 325 



Dolichouyx 437 



DolichoiJodidif 327 



Dolichopus 327. 328 



Doridium 252 



Doris :^48 



Dothidella 427 



Dothiorella 431. 432 



Draba 544 



Drillia 59-61, 116 



Drosophila 317,339 



I)roHOi)hilid{e 339 



r)rvaf< 543 



Dryohates 464. 482, 483 



Duplicaria 429 



Eburnella 215 



EctopiHtis 475 



Edentata 447 



Egeon 182 



Eleanoides 381,464,478 



ElanuH 478 



THK ACAOKMY «i|' [1895. 



EleplKiH 447 



F'ilotht'iimu 279 



ElyniMs 419 



Kriipidn' 327 



Empidoiiax . . . .381, 382, 486 



Kiuyid;i' 383 



EiicliiiiatoceiaK 45 



EiidopacliyH . 116, lis, 124, 129 



EligyHloiuu 382,396 



EngyKtoinidif 396 



EiiBiiia 337 



Entoptvi'hus 270, 284 



, Ephvdia 339 



Ephydiidii' 338 



' Epilobium 437 



E(iiuis 447, 449 



Erato 122 



Erax 324 



Ereiiiietes 473 



Erigenm 544 



Eriophonmi 544 



Eri()i)tfra 320 



[ Erisinatura 469 



; ErlHtaiiH 330 



. Euaiitha 334 



Euarenta 337 



iMU'heilodoii 63, 122 



Eucyphidca 173 



EuhybuH 327 



Eumeces 386 



Eu])hyla 120 



EuplotCH 168 



Eurosta 337 



Euspongus 523 



Eutypella 425, 426 



, EuxcHta 337 



I EvotoniyH 382 



ExoproHopa 325 



; Ex crista 332 



Falco 464, 479, 504, 505 



' Falconidte 478 



Farancia 407 



Fasciolaria 122 



Felis 449 



Fimbria 349 



Flabelluni 12:^ 



Fomes 413 



P'ratercula 504 



Fraxinus .... 416, 425, 426, 431 



Fridericia . 341-345 



Fringillidtt- 488 



Fucellia 336 



Fulica 473 



FiiPariuni 441 



Fuflicoccum 432 



Fnmis 61, 69, 71, 72, 116, 119. 122- 

 125, 130, 147 



! Galeoscoptes 498 




1895.] 



nati;kai, scien(;rs ok phii,ai>ki^phia. 



601 



Gallipa; . . 

 Galliuago 

 (jlalliuulu 

 Ga-itridiuui 

 (jrastroptKla . 

 Gavia . . 

 Gaza . . 

 Geanter 



Geouiyida' iITu-jstj 



<ieothlyj)is ssi 



Gerard ia 

 (Jeron 



Gladiolus 



Glaiicioiietta ... 



Giires 



Gloeosixjriimi 



Gh'ceria 



Glyphocraiiguii 



Guani|)t<)i)yil(>piiH 



( Jnoijhutiiyia 



(Jouia 



Gory ten 517- 



Graiidinia 



Grindelia 

 Gruidaj 



Grus 



Grypha'a . . . 



Gutierrezia . 



GyniiuKlexia ;^lo, 



Gyiniioiir«)i*<>pa 



GymiiopteruH 



Gyiiui<)plychuH 



Gyrii)i)phiIiiH 



Habia 



Haldea 



Halia'etHH 

 Haltt'ria . 



Harporhyiichus . 



Helniiiitlienis 



Helnniith(iphila381, 4H4. 4i»4. 



ileliantliiiH 



Helirohiu :il7, 



Helicter 



HelictoreH 



Helinaia 



lleliscoiiiyf' 



Helophilii."* . 



IffiiuTiidriiMiiu 



Heiiiiflai'tyliiiiii 



I Iftnipeiithe- 



IleiiderHoiiia 



Hermetia 



HerodiMiu'H 



Herpetodrya- 



KtTpotrifhia . 



Hcterochroii 



lletfr'.d<)ri 



Heteromyldn^ 



2:^7, 289. 



:VM). 



21, 



270- 



47o 

 47:; 

 47.'. 

 122 



•".:■{ 

 .")(»;; 



S4 

 41.-) 

 H;iy 



497 



.■)oS 

 :52H 



Am 



447 

 4S.) 

 .i4o 

 174 

 .•{2!» 

 ;-!20 



;-;h2 

 .5:^9 

 418 

 439 

 472 

 472 

 142 

 484 

 :^^4 

 882 

 828 

 2H(i 

 401 

 491 

 407 

 479 

 IH8 

 498 

 494 

 49o 

 42:^ 

 X84 

 240 

 28H 

 494 

 28f? 



:ai 



827 

 407 



i:::; 

 '.21 

 171 



407 

 415 

 889 

 407 



Hibiscus 488 



Kilara 827 



llippeiates ;«9 



Hippobortcidue 840 



Hiriuotieura 82.J 



Hiruudiiiidai 492 



llogardia 2ti4 



H(>k-()cei)hala 828 



Hoiopogoij H2;-{ 



Hoiualoniyia HSo 



lloiuu 446 



Homo.<tLgia 427 



Hopli.xiiH r)25, 5:^2, o37 



HyboH ;S27 



Hydrellia 838 



Hyla . . . 8.S1 , 897-899, 40.5, 407 



Hyiidtii 396 



Hyposteiia . 818, 834 



Hypoxyloii . 27, 42ti 



Hysteriiiiu . . 429 



Icteria . .881. 497 



Icterida- 4S7 



Ic'teruH 487 



letinia 478 



Iguanida' . . x.Sfi 



IinpatieiiH ... .")t)0 



Fxot bran pis 2-52 



.lobiiHoiiia 31H, 884 



.Iiirdaiiia 410 



Jiiiico . 4l«i 



Jiirinia . ;i82 



Kaliiiia ,558 



KinKStcriion 384 



Labiella 2:^7 



LagDpu- .... 503, 505 



liaiuiiiellu . 215, 227, 228, 2:^7 



Laiiidie 498 



i, ail ins 4<).{ 



Lapiiria 824 



r.apliystia 82:^ 



i^apiysia 847 850 



r.a|)paria . . IIH, 117, 120. 180. 



liar Ida' . 4(i5 



liarra 266 



I.aruH 465, fm, 504 



La'<i<i«phK'ria 21 



I,atiniH 71, 108, 118. 110, 117, 119. 

 12<. 124, 126. 128. 129. 180 



I.HUxaiiia 83H 



\.vi\n Mi. 119, 1-2.8, 126. 128, l;M). 



147 

 I/e|iidi>|ib<>ra 82<> 



!ie|>ta<-batiiia 214, 2;<7, 'SiH 



l,t'pti<l:f . . :VS{ 



lA*|>ti« . . 82;i 



Iiei)to«la :W4 



l.cpto^asicr .804, 82-8 



Iv^'ptoMplneria 421, 4ltl 




60-2 



PRlK.'KEl>lN(iS OK TlIK AC!AI>KMY OK 



[1895. 



Auma 241-24;^. H«l 



je8Hiugia .>4K 



ieHtiphorus .")2S 



Lett-mi iii'ii 41o 



ieucoiuclinii ;>|{o 



>eufi)}>is i)H9 



^vifurius . . 69,70, lOH, 12ti, V2\) 



iigustioum 414 



iiuiicolie 47H 



iiinuophila ;W() 



jininophora 'Wo 



>iii().sinrt ;^40 



iiojieltis 407 



Jquidaud>ar 428 



iispe '■^'^o 



jobioptera ;^;J9 



joewia -^38 



joufhar'a H88 



>out'bifida' 888 



jongi pen lies 4tio 



Louicera 441 



oi)luostoina ... 2i>. 41!i, 420 



LophodyteH 4(i7 



jOtus 487 



Loxia 882, 488 



Lncilia 880 



Luciua 147 



Lunulites 128 



Luzula o44 



Ijychuis o44 



Lycoperdoii 414 



IvVgodesniia 414 



L"vnx 448 



Machierodus 448 



Macrochires 484 



Macroclemys 881 



Macrosporiniu 489, 440 



.Mactru 97, ir)9, 251 



Malacleinys ... 408, 404, 40H 



Mallophora 824 



Mallota 880 



Maugilia 62, 116 



Marginella 67, 116, 123 



-Marsonia 436 



Martenia .")3, 114 



.MaHicera 332 



.Ma.siphya 303, 309 



Ma-stodou 447 



.Maynardia 206 



MedeteruH 828 



Megalouyx 447 



MegaHC'opH ... 480 



.MegantizuH 266 



.Melancouiiirii 486 



.Melaiierj)e» 48^^ 



Melauomma . . .21,22,416,417 



Melanopsanima 416 



Meleagris 475 , 



Melograiunia 426 



.MeloHpi/.a 490 



.Meiiolnanchim 40(5 



.Mephili.s 447 



Muretri.x oO 



MergaiiHer 467 



Meromaohriis 830 



Meromy/a 839 



Merula 601 



iMenalia H(», 114, 116, 119, 



121-128, 146 



Mesograiiiiua 829 



.MetaHpliaeiia 423 



MiiTobeiubex 351, 363 



Microehietina 334 



.Mierodoii 329 



Mieropezida' 836 



Microiiodida' 484 



Microtns 381 



Midaid.-e 32.") 



Midas 825 



MUesia 881 



Miltogiamina 832 



Miimis 498 



Mitra 122 



.MniotiUa 494 



Muiotiltidae 494 



Modiola 46 



MoUiHia 428 



.Molothrus 487 



Moiiedula . . . 851-854, 868-372 



Mouoptvgiiia 122 



Motacilfidfe 498 



Murex "4, 75, 122 



Muridfe 281 



Murtca 335 



Muscidte 335 



Mustela 447 



Myeetophilidte 319 



MyiarchuH 485 



MyioV)ia 813 



Mylodon 447 



Myobia 334 



Myothyria 333 



MyxoH]M>riuni 30 



Natica . . .108, 114, llt>-120, 12;-i, 

 124. 127, 180, 1.58 



Natrix 881 , 887-890, 406 



Nectociangoii . . .174,181,182, 

 191-196 



Necturus 406 



Nemestriuida* 825 



Neinotelus 804, 321 



Neoglaphyroptera . 808, 319 



Neopeckia 21 



Neospilota 837 



Neotoma 281 



Neptunea ......... 122 




1895.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PH I J-ADKLI'H I A . 



t>0' 



Jlo. \1-2H, 



. ]it>!. \-2y,\: 



147, 



IH, 



Xeverita . 



Newcombia 



Nifot'leK . 



Nicotian a 



NLiiiravus 



Northupite 



Notii)hila 



Xueula 



NuLuenius 



Nycticorax 



Occuliua . 



Ochthera 



OcyiJtaiiiii> . 



Oeypleia . . 



Odoiitoiiiyia 



Odont<)i»olys To, 77, 



Oentridie 



<E8tr<iphat4ia . 



Ohleiia . . 



Olffisia ... 



Oligusoiiia . 



Olivella . IIH. 



Oloi 



Omegasyrphiis . 



OraiiiatiuH 



Oufodocera 

 Onychotria . 

 Opheodrvrt 



Ophiljohis ;{81, 



Ophidia ... :!H7, 40o. 4(m>. 



OphiHaunie 



OphioboluH . . 4.iS, 



Ophyra . . 



Ortalidie ... 



Oseinidsf 



OHciuis 



Ostrea . 4o, JfJ. 1 ]•_' 1 1^4. 14.5- 

 Ovibos . 124.5. 



Ovularia . 



Pachyceriiia 



I'athyophlhairmiH 



Pachyrrhiiia 



F'acicuUiH JSI, 



Paia'iiiun . 

 I'aiudicola- . 



I'aiulion 4H4, 



Paracerioii 



ParacliiiUH 



Paracraiij^oii 



ParagiH 



ParaniuM-limi 



Paraliiimu 



f*arid»' 



ParkiuHonia .... - 



Partulina 21o. li*-il. 



ParuH. 4«4. 45>«. 



I'aiydra WM. 



PaH»er 



174, 17.5, 



1H«. 



ir.7 



122 

 2:^7 

 S2H 

 420 

 44»» 

 4(W 

 AHH 

 1.5S 

 474 

 472 

 124 

 :i38 



Am 

 :'.82 

 S21 

 122 

 :?:^1 



.'.O 



;h40 



HH7 

 130 

 471 

 329 

 824 

 82H 

 4()fi 

 H91 

 392 

 447 

 404 

 424 

 SHf) 



;i;>K 



339 

 339 

 -148 

 247 

 437 

 :S38 

 3.34 

 320 



•2m 



173 

 472 

 480 

 20«) 

 328 

 189 

 .329 

 H)9 

 .;:;s 

 l:iH 

 131 

 287 

 .500 

 33» 



287 

 423 



PaesereUa 



Piw?seresi 



asseriiia 



atellea 



Pecten 112. 114, 118, 130, 131, 



'ectu lieu ins 



'edele^ 270, 272 



^edicularis .544 



*ela-xt<iiieurus 



*elecaiiida' . . ... 



VleoauuH 



^elecypoda . 

 eltaiidra . 



Viiiophura . . 



*eiit.steiii<ni . . 



*erch<iTUr< 



Vrdicella 



'erdita 1 



'eriploina .52, 



'erogiiathiis 270 



'eroniysciin ... 33, .381 , 



'etroolielidoii 



'eiit'iea 



'e'/A/.ix 



'haoelia 



'balafiocoracidji.' 



^halacrocorax 



'hasioriiata . . 

 Phasiuptervx 



'hilohela " 



*hle<)spora 



'bot'iiicuruH 



Midladoinya 



'hoina 



Phura 



'In)ri)ia 



'hurida- 



'honx-eia 



PhoH . . . 103, 114. 11»>, 118, 



122 



'liryii()f<)iiia . . . 



Mitbiria 



Mivihubroa 



MiyiloHlicta 430. 



'hynaiospijra . 



'hvMocepbala 



'icida- 



'iniia 



'iopbila 



Mopbili.l:.' 



Mpilu 



•ijii/a 



•ipuiifiilidif 



'iraiiga 



^itiiupbi-' 



Magioiifui u?< 



'lagipnmphervHa 



491 

 48.5 

 491 

 429 

 148 

 112 



;-277 



, 54.5 



328 



4tJ7 



467 



4G 



-289 

 413 



, 438 

 28H 

 21.5 



1-18 

 12.5 



382 

 492 

 490 

 428 

 558 

 46« 

 46(> 

 :«3 

 333 

 478 

 435 

 349 

 114 

 28 

 340 



.33»; 



340 

 382 



IIH, 120, 



119, 

 -129 

 404 

 326 

 427 

 431 

 121 

 :;:u 



182 



482 

 130 



;W8 



338 

 491 

 329 

 .331 

 492 

 407 

 328 

 332 




(i()4 



PI«>CKKI>1N(4S (»K rilK At'AhlvMV ( H- 



[1895. 



IManera 4:^9 



Flail lago 427 



Platyura . :i07, Hit) 



Plei-ia . . . Hl<» 



Pleclrcjiht'iiax . . .>04, oOo 



IMeosjiora 4l*1 



rielhotioii 4ul 



Pletbocluiitidii- . 401 



I'lourodelidii' ... 4(H) 



Pk'iiiolicuM liTO- L'St) 



Pk-iiroiniiia . . o(>-(i4, 97, 11;^, 114. 

 llti-llS. 1L>(). l:ii.'-i:^(), 14.1, 147 



Pleuiotoiiiflla 5() 



Plieatiila 104. 114-1:2K, 180, 181 



Poa o44 



I'udiuipida' 4(i.") 



l*()dilyinliu.-i 4(35 



Poleiiumiuni 422 



Polioptila oOO 



Poiitoc-ari.s 174, 175-197 



Poutophilus . .174,170,182-187, 

 191-197 



Pooccutes 489 



P(>|)Ulus 41H, 417. 420 



Porzana 478 



Poteinilla .544 



Prion. )craijguii . 174, I7.i, 188, 189 



Proboscidia 447 



Proetacanthus 824 



Profile 492 



Projuachus 324 



J*r().«eiu)idt'8 814, 884 



Prothechus 881 



Protocardium 114 



Protoiiotaria 881, 494 



Protoptvf.-hus 269-286 



P.«eudei"riys 884, 403 



P8eiid()liraU(.-hu.« 407 



Pseudochfeta .... .309, :;10, 8.38 

 Pseudoliva . In, 103, 11.3-180, 14.5, 



147 



PHeudoiiiyothyria 388 



Pseudovalsa 27 



Psittaci 480 



Psittacidte 480 



Psilocephala . • 827 



Psilijpa 838 



Peihji.UH 328, 329 



Psilota .329 



Pteoticus . . . ■ 820 



Pterojj.sis 128, 129 



Ptilochseta 834 



Pupa 207 



PvgopodeH 46.5 



Pvramidella 76, 127 



J^rgota 386 



Pyrula .544 



Pvrroooraa .549 



Pyrula 77, 128, 12.5. 127, 128, 130, 



145 



Ciuenii.s 428, 482, 488 



Uiii.«-aliis 488 



Kalhi.s 470 



Hamularia 437 



Uaiia 382, 394-896, 407 



Kaiiaria 895 



llaiifrifer 246 



llaiiida- 894 



Uamiiuiilii.s .544 



Uaplores 477 



KegiiluH 882, 500 



KbachiceriiH 820 



Kiiaiuiiiis 484—186 



Khipidia 320 



KhyiK'hoct'iilialuH 82-5 



Khyncbopida' 4(i6 



H.hy 11 chops 4f)6 



Rhus 420, 424, 439 



Riciiui!^ 421 



Kimella .... 78, 114, Ho, 180 



Riiigiciila . .53 



Ris.sa o03, .504 



Rivellia 336 



Roselliiiia . . 22, 23, 41-5. 416, 419 



Rouiiiegneria 428 



Rume?c 437 



.Sabinea . . 174, 17.5, 187, 188, 198 



Saeomyid;e 282 



Salix .' 486, .544 



Saliuo 166 



Sam bu cue 440 



Sa])romyza 338 



Sapromyzidie 338 



Sarcomacrouycbia 334 



Sareophaga 834 



San:opbagid;e 316, 834 



Sarcotachinella 8.34 



iSargus 320 



Sarothromyia 834 



Sassafran 433 



Sauoropiis 328 



Sauria 386, 404 



Saxieola .505 



Saxifraga 544 



SavorniH 485 



Scala 118 



Scaphiopuf* 405 



Scatella 339 



Sceloi>oru.-< 382, 386 



Scenopinidje 327 



8cenopinu.s .327 



8ciara 319 



Scincidfe 886 



Sciomyza 336 



Sciomyzidft' .336 



Sciurus 382, 496 




1895.] 



NATCRAI. .SCIKNf;RS OF PHII.A DKI.PH I A. 



605 



Scleroeraiigon 

 Scobiiiella . . 

 Sculecophagus 

 Scolopacida' . 

 Scutella . . 

 SepHidie . 

 Sepsis . . 

 Septoria . 

 Setophaga . . 

 SigaretUH . U»;',. 



Siguioduii 

 Siliqua . . 

 Siphoclytia 

 Siphuna 

 Sipbonella 

 SiphDjihyta 

 Sireu . . . 

 Sitta . . . 

 Smilodon . 

 Solaiiuiu . . . 

 Solarium 8;S, So. 



Solidago . . . 



Somateria . . 



Sorex . . 



Spallau/aiiia . 



Spatula . . 



Spelerpes . , 



Sphii-rella 



Sphjeria 



Sphaeropfis 



SpheciuH . . 



Sphex ... 



SphyrapicuK 



si)il<)gra]jlui 



Spiloiiiyia 



Spinu." . 



Spi/.a . 



Spi/ella 



Spirorbis HM 



8[)«)r()df>'iiiiuin 



Stfg:iiii>|i(>(lL>< 



Sttlgidiiplcrvx 



Stellaria 



Stemphyliuni 



Steniolia 



SteiKJpteriua . 



Stercorariu" 



Sterna 



.StlUKtriivceH 



Stizini 



StlZUH . 



Stomoxvf* 



Storeria" 



Stratiomyia 



StratioiiiyidH- 



Strepslduru 



17-i. 176, 177 



4S7 



. 47o 



ll.S-llo 



. AAH 



4M4. 4Ho 



49S 



llti, ll.s, \-2H, 124. 



128, ISO 



881 



.51, 97 

 . S3S 

 . :«8 



8H8 

 4()() 

 499 



448 



441 



114. 116, 119. 128, 



IJ.V129. 180 



. . 48S 



.")08. oO") 



8S-J 



.■;:!4 



46S 



401. 40o 



•V). 110, 420, 421 



. 20-81, 418, 427 



28, 29. 486, 487 



264-2fi6 



.")2.5 



488 



.;87 



.881 



488 



491 



490 



. 116. 119. 122, 181 



489 



466 



192 



.">44 



440, 441 



. 8.51, 878, 874 



. . 887 



.")<)2-.')04 



. '.0.") 



441 



264 



264-268 



.88,5 



10.5, 406 



;2i 

 .;20 



Strigid.e 

 Strix 

 Strophia 

 Sturnella . 

 Styloiiehia 

 Surc'ula 



Sy Ivauia . . . 

 Synaptoiiiys . . 

 Syneches . . . 

 .*^ynthe.xiumyia . 

 Syniiuni 

 Syruola 

 Syrpbida' 

 Syrphus . . . . 

 SyntO'chuM . . 

 Systropus 

 'I'abauid;*' . 

 Tabaiins . 



Tachiiia . 



Tachinida- . 

 TachiuiiiM' . 

 Tacbiiioniyia . 

 Tacliinopbyta 

 Taobycineta 

 TafbytrLTliu- 

 Taniia.-i . 

 Tanagra 

 Taiiagrida' 

 Tauypus 

 'fajiirus 

 'I aracticuf 

 I'aratii.-* 

 'rt'ii'biispora 

 'IVida- 

 Testudiiiata 

 'relliua -51, 



TeiiuiHcala 

 'rejihriti.'^ 

 'rei)br<»n()ta 

 'IVreliellum 

 'IVrebra . -54, -5.5, 



TerraiK-'iie 



Tetaiiocera 



Telbys . 



Thamiiopbi!- 



'I'bereva 



Therevidii' 



'rhoUHHiiVH . . 



TbryolhoruM . 



'rbv-aii<»myiH 



'{"byridiiim 



'ri|)nia 



'njiulidii' . 



ToiitopbilUH 



Toruati'lliiia 



Torula 



Totatius 



.... 480 



. . . 480 



.208 



. . 487 



. . 168 



. . .56 



882, 464, 497 



. . 882 



. 327 



. . . . 83o 



. . 464, 480 



829 



829 



826 



826 



.821 



.... 821-823 



888 



881 



809 



834 

 888 

 492 

 828 

 48 

 2-51 



492 



. 808, 820 



447 



82.8 



64 



2.5, 419 



886 



447 



126. 180. 147, ir>8 



76, 129 



. . 837 



387, 338 



114 



108. 118. 116, 117. 



122, 12.>-127 



. 382. 88.8 



3;'.6 



847-.8.50 



.887. 4(Mi 



.827 



.827 



. . .84-.t7 



. .381. 498, 499 



.882 



424 



820 



.{20 



184 



489 

 474 




(i06 



rmxKKKINdS OK 



Tropidia 831 



'riopitUicaipuui ■")")l-o.54 



Trui)id()ci<)iii<>ii 40(5 



'lYopidoiK.tiis 388 



Trypeta 338 



Trvi)etid!e 337 



Tuba 12;-'., 128 



riirl.iii..lla ]]>\ 118, 119, 123, 124, 



129, 1.30 



Turdidte 500 



TurduH 382, oOO, oOl 



Turjiicuia 127 



Tuirioula .... (i9, IIH, 119, 123, 



125, 128 



TurrlH 59, 122 



Turritella 81, 82, 97, 114, 118-130, 

 14.V148, 157, 158 



Tyraunida' 485 



Tyraumis 485 



IJuihellularia 433 



IJrellia 337, 338 



Tria 504 



rriiiator 4f;5, 502 



rilK A( AIHO.MY OK [1895. 



nriiiatorida' . Ui.'^ 



L'rocyon . 42 



Urodfla . 10(1, »(»•".. 407 



I'l-werH . . 447 



I'rliia . 439 



N'acciiiiuiii 20, 544 



\ aKiKTa 551 



Valeria iiflla 548 



X'als.i 425 



VeiKMirardia 48, 97, 100, 103. 109, 



110. 112. 113, 11.-), no, 118, 120. 



121, 12.:, 124. 127 130. 145-147, 



157, 159 



Veiituria 20 



W'lms 251 



Veriuicularia 28, 421 



Vertunimis 349 



VeHi)a 525 



Vire() 404, 493 



Vireonida- 493 



Virginia 405, 407 



Voluceila 330 



VolutilitheH45,67,77, 100, 104-119, 

 123-128, 130, 140, 147 



Volvaria 07 



Volvula 54, 119, 122 



Vulpcis 447 



Whitiieya 71 



Woodsia 544 



Xanthograninia 329 



Xauthomeiaiia 332 



Xvlophagida^ 320 



Xylota 331 



Yoldia . .97, 103, 123, 129, 145, 147 



ZapuH 271, 272 



Zea 433 



Zenaidura . . 470 



Zodiuii 331 



ZoiiotriC'hia 489 




1^95.] NATURAI. SCIENCES OF I'HILADEJ^I'HIA. 607 



GENERAL INDEX. 

 1895. 



Additions to the .Museum, oUO. |ioiiiiiiieiit on liibrary Coraniit- 



Allen. Harrison, M.I)., election to lee, 21;!. ("urative etiect of tau- 



Council, 17:!. Election to I*uli- rin, olH. Hejjort of tlie I'rofts- 



iicatitjii Couiniittee, 172. .sor of Histology and Micro- 



-VnthrojioloKical Section, rejtort scojiic iechnoiogy, .38H. 



of, r,S.i. h:ieclions during 1S9."), .588. 



Maldwin. I). I). Dest-ripiion of KIlis, J. H. Notes on specimens 



new Species of Acliatineila from of Pyrenomycetes in the 



the Hawaiian Islands I folates X Schweinit/ Herbarium of the 



and XI . 41, 214. Academy, 1(», I'O. 



liall. .M.V., M.I). l{ei.ort of Mi- KIlis, .J. li, and 15. .M . Kverharl. 

 crosco|iicai and Hioiogjcal Se<'- New Species of I'lmgi from Na- 

 tion, report of. .'174. riou.s localities, 87o, 41H. 



Botanical Section, report of, .")78. Entomological Section, report of, 



Hrinton, 1). (J., M.I). Itejiort of o77. 



I'rofessor of Ethnology and Foote, A. M, M.I)., announce- 



Archa-oiogy, .')8.'). ment of death of, 442. 



Mrown, Sieward.son. Report of i-'oote, Warren M. Preliminary 



Botanical Section, .")78. Note on a New Alkali Mineral, 



(■adwaladei. .lohn. election to 408. 



Council, 4t>. Fowke, (ierard. Archieological 



Carter. Henry John, anrioinice- Work in Ohio, 442, .WfJ. 



ment of dtalh of, 24!t. l'"ox, Wm. J. Synopsis of the 



Chapman, Henry C, .M.I). Ke- .Sti/ini of Boreal America, 24'.«, 



port of Curatorw, o70. 2H4. Synopsi'^ of the Bembi- 



Cockcreli. T. I). A. S«)me new cini of Boreal America (Plate 



Bee.s of the (ienus Pcrdita, I). XIV), S.")I. Synopsis of tlie 



'I'he Bees of the Ccnus IVrflita. North American Species of (Jo- 



oi»i. rytes Eatr., 44:i, .")17. 



< 'ommittee on llaydcn Memorial (ireene. Kdw. E. Kclogic I'.o- 



A ward, report of. •■)4 1 . tanicic. No. 2. I. Some new 



( ommiltees. ."^landing. !•. Western Plants; II. Mevision 



( "onchological S<<tioii, niioit of, of Tropidocarpum, .^ll, .j4ti. 



•')7H. iiarlow, I,oins A., M.I)., an- 



(.'o|»e, Kdw. I». The fo^sil vertc- nonnccment of death of, 44;{. 



Iirafa from the li.ssine al Port H.-irris, Oillpcrt I). On some New 



Kennedy. Pa.. I4»i. and otherwJHc Interesting 'I'er- 



Corresporiding .SicHiarv. rcp<»rt liarv .Mollusta from Texas 



of, .-.(H. , Philcs I IX I. 10. 4.-). 



Coxf, Iv-klcy l>.. .'iiir^iuncc-ment Haych-n .Memorial .\ ward, report 

 of death of, 2Jl». ' on, .')4I. 



Curator of th<- William .">. \'aux llaydcn Mernori.il (icologjcal 



< 'oiled ions. .YS7. ('ommiltce. a|ipoiiitnicnl of. 



Curatoi.1. report of, .■)70. 211. 



Dana James I )\\ ighl, annoiniii-- lleil|irin. .\iigclo. I he Port Keii- 



mcnt of death of, 212. nedy deposit, |.'>l. .\ppoiiit- 



Di.xou, SauMul (i., M. I»., ap- i mcnl as I'rofeH.-or of (Jeology 




608 



J'HoCKEDINaS OK THE ACAMKMY <>F 



[1895. 



ol6. F{e})i>rt of Professor (»f lii- 

 vetelmite I'lileoiitoluny, oS.;. 



nine, F.liiiore ('., .M'. D., an- 

 uouureiueiil otdejith of, [7'1. 



Holm. Theo. ( 'oiitrilnitioiiH to 

 the Kloi.'i of (;retiiluiid, .)lt), 

 o4S. 



HouHtoii, 11. 11., iiiiiioiiiueiiif 111 

 »)f death of, ;'.0:i. 



Hulke, John Wliilaker. .mi- 

 noiineeiiieiil of lieatli of. lilii. 



Huxley, Thoiiia.s II., aiiiioiiiice- 

 nieiit of death of, :;((:;. 



Index to (ieiiera, old. 



Jetleris. William \V.. appoint- 

 ment as Ciuator of the William 

 S. Vanx Colleetioiis, •j,\A, Re- 

 port of the Curator of the Wil- 

 liam 8. Vaux Collection.s. 587. 



Johnson, C. W., and I). W. Co- 

 <iuillet. Dipleraof Florida, 291, 



Keller. Ida A. The jell.v-like se- 

 cretion of the fruit of Peltandra 

 uudulata, 1'49, I'ST. N<Me.s (»n 

 the Stud.v of the Cross-fertiliza- 

 tion of Fiowers Ij.v Insects, .")4]. 



Kenned.v, William. The Focene 

 Tertiary of Texas east of the 

 lirazos 'River, 41, S!i. 



Kirkwood. Daniel, announce- 

 ment of death of, 44 J. 



Lauiborn, K<jbert H., announce- 

 ment of death of, 10. 



I iawrence, (ieorge N., announce- 

 ment of death of, 17J. 



Leonard, C. L., M.I). On a new 

 raelhodofstudvingcell motion, 

 10, 8.S. 



lie wis. .Samuel G., announcement 

 of death of, o41. 



Librarian, rejj<jrt of, .")•).'). 



Meehan. Thomas. .Menioii- of 

 John Howard lUdlield, 2.jo, 

 292. Report of B(Hanical Sec- 

 tion, -iTH. 



^^ercer, Henr.vC. .\ jireliminary 

 account of the re-exploration in 

 1804 and ISO.', ,,f the r.onc-Ilolc, 

 now know n as Irwin's Cave, at 

 F*ort Kenned.v, .MontKomerv 

 County, Pennsylvania, 44;'.. 



Microscopical and Biological Sec- 

 tirdi. rei>ort of, .)74. 



Mineralogical ami (ieological Sec- 

 tion, report of, oHO. 



.M<Mne, (,'larence H. Certain Kiver- 



mounds in Duval Co., Florida, 

 442, 44X. Two M»)undH on Mur- 

 phy Island, I'lorida, 442, 44:i 

 Certain Sand Mounds of the 

 Ocklawalia River, Florida, 442, 

 44H. 

 Moore. J. Percy. .Notes on .\nieri- 

 can Fnchylr .'ida-. 1. .\ew 

 Species of Fridericia from the 

 vicinitv of Philadelphia (Plate 

 .\'II1). 802. 34 1. 

 Moorhead, William <;., an- 

 nouncement of death of. 10. 



.Morris, Charles. The Extinction 

 of Species, 240, 2.')8. Report of 

 .\nthropological Section, -'yH'^. 



Morris, |{e\. .lohn ( J., announce- 

 ment of death of, 442. 



Nolan. Fdw. J., M.D .\ bio- 

 graphical notice of W. S. W. 

 Kuschenl)erger, M.I).,4.V2. Re- 

 port of Recording Secretary, 

 oB2. Report of Librarian, .")0.5. 



Norwocxl, J. <T., announcement 

 of death of. 442. 



Obciholt/.er, Vickers. (reologv 

 of the Island of (Eland, 240. 



OMicens Ibr 180H, ."iS8. 



Ornithological Section, report of, 

 .18 1. 



Ortmann, Arnold F. .\ Study of 

 the s.vstcnuitic and geographic 

 Distriltution of the Decapod 

 Familv ('rangonid.c Hate, 172. 

 17:;. 



Pilsbry, Henry .\., election as 

 Curator, 211. On the status of 

 the names .\physia and '^Pethyp, 

 >!47. Rejjort of Conchological 

 Section, .570. Kei)ort of the 

 Professor of Malacology, o80. 



Pilsbry, Henry A., and E. CI. 

 X'aiiatta. New Species of the 

 (Jenns Ceri(jn, 200, 212. 



Professor of Ethnology and .\rch- 

 u'olog.v, report of, 68."). 



Professor of Histology and Micro- 

 scopii- Technology, rej>ort of, 

 680. 



Professor of Invertebrate Paleon- 

 tolog.v, ref>ort of, 68.'!. 



Profe8.s<jr of Invertebrate Zool(»gy, 

 report of, 686. 



Profe.ssor of Malai-ology, report 

 of, 680. 



Rand, Theo. D. Trap Dykes in 

 Chester Co., Pennsylvania, 640. 




1895.] 



NATLKAI, SCIENCE8 OK PHH-ADKJ-PHI A. 



609 



Report of Mineralugical and ; 

 (Geological Section, .58(1. 



Uecordiug Secretary, reji'irt of, 

 ■W2. 



Kedtieitl, John H., amioiiUfe- 

 luent of death of, 171. Memorial 

 minute, 171. Obituary notii-e 

 of, J9:i. 



Hejjort of Aiiihropologiral Sec- 

 tion, .")s;-;. 



Report of liolunical Section, ■)78. 



Kei)ort of ('onthological Section, 

 o7(i. 



Report of Corresponding Secre- 

 tary, ot>4. 



I{eport of the Curator of the Wil- 

 liam S. \'aux Colltctioiis, 5H7. 



Report of CiiratorH, .")7<). 



Report of l^nlomoiogical Section, 

 •177. 



Rejiort on the llaydeu Memorial 

 .•\ ward. •'>4]. 



Report of liihrarian, -Vi-j. 



Report i>f .Mi<-roscopical and Rio- 

 logical Se<'tion. .')T4. 



Rejjort of Mineralogital and (ieo- 

 logical Section, ")>>(l. 



Report of Ornithological Section, 

 o81. 



RejMirt of ProfefHor of Kihnoiogs 

 and Archicology, oV). 



Report of Professor of Hi^tology 

 and Microscopic 'Pechiiologv , 

 .>S*i. 



Report of ProfeHsor of ln\ertc- 

 liratc I^ileontology, 'jS '■. 



Report of I'rofessor of Invertt- 

 hrate Zoology, -VS.".. 



Report of ProfeHsor of Mahicology. 

 .JH»i. 



Report of Recording ."^ecictarv, 



.v;2. 



Re.\, ( ie<jrge .\.. .M . I)., an- 

 nouiKvment of death of, :;s. 

 .Memorial minute, 40. 



Rhoad.'*, S. N. DcMcriplion of 

 new Mammal.H from I'lorida 

 and Southern California, \(), '■'>-. 

 New SnlispccifH of the (Jra.\ 

 Kox and ."^ayV Chipmunk, II, 

 I'J. Note-* on Varying iliirc- 

 of Wa-hington and iJrili-^h 

 Columliia. •Jll.'. Ii41. !)isiril>n 

 ti<in of the American Ri^on in 

 Penn.^ylvani.i, witli remarks on 

 a new fox.«*il .'^pecicH, 1,'IJ, 1141. 

 Contriliutjous to the Zoology of 

 TenneHHee, No. 1- KeptihH .-uid 



Amphibiant?, 376. Coutribu- 

 tious to the Zoology of Tennes- 

 see, No. li— Birds, 875, 468. 



Rilev, Charles \'., aunouucement 

 of death of, 44:'. 



Ruschenberger, \V. S. W., .M.I)., 

 announcement of death of, \1'2. 

 Biographical notice of, 452. 



Ryder, .lohn A. An arrangement 

 of the Retinal Cells in the Eyes 

 of Fishes partially simulating 

 Compound Eyes, 161. The true 

 N:..ure of the so-called "' Nettle- 

 Threads " of Paramavium, 1()7. 

 Announcement of death of, 17ii. 

 Memorial minute, Jll. 



Sajjorla, (iaston de, announce- 

 ment of death, 212. 



Scott, Wm. B. Protopty(;hus 

 llatcheri. a new Rodent from 

 the I'inta Eocene, 24H, 269. 



Sharp, Benjamin, Si. I). On a 

 collecting tour in .Alaska, Ber- 

 ing Sea and the An-tic Ocean, 

 142. Report of (Jorresponding 

 Secretary, oti4. Report of Pro- 

 fessor of Invertebrate Zoology. 

 O.S.5. 



Skinner, Henry, .M.I). Report of 

 Entomological Section, .577. 



.Standing ( Ninimittees, 9. 



Starks, I'Muin Chapin. hescriji- 

 tion of a new (Jenus and 

 SpecicH of Cottoid Ki»hes from 

 Puget Sound, ;!7.5, 410. 



Stone, Witmer. On the Priority 

 (;f the names Calliste, .Aglaia 

 and Calospiza, and their use in 

 Ornithology, 21:'., ii.51. hist of 

 |{irds collected in North ( irccn- 

 liind liv the I'eary fOxpedition. 

 of iH'.tl" !'2, 442, .5uii. Report of 

 Ornithological Section, .vsl . 



Siitor, Henry, and II. M.tJwat- 

 kin. Ol)sers ations on the den- 

 tition of .\chatinclliilic, 41, 2;!7. 

 Thonuis. (Sharks M., .M . I)., an- 

 nouncement of death of, .")16. 



'i'omes, Sir John, .-uinouncinicnl 

 of death of, 442. 



\\ alter, l<",mtna. lun'i- the Dcla- 

 \\;irc Water (iap consint of 'I'wo 

 River < iorg» s? 172, I'.tS. 



\\ illiam-^tM^I'assmorcannounce- 

 nii nt of death of, 172. 

 \\ ingate. Harold. ic.-it,Mi!ilion 

 from Coun<"il, .ll'l. 





Proc. Acad. Nat Sci. ^hila 1805 



HAHHIS, TtKriAKV WOLLUSCA Of- ThXAS. 





Proc. Acad. Nat. Scl. Ph. la i8q = 



Plate 



HARRIS, TbWTIAin' M(.)LLUbCA ol I l:\AS. 





Proc. Acad. Nat. Scl Phlla. 1895. 



Plate II! 



HARIRIS. riiKll.AlO WOl.l.USC.A (Jl ItXAS. 





Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. PhlU iRr 



Plate IV. 



HARRIS. THRTIAin WOI.LUSCA UK TbXAS. 





Proc, Acad- H?.- Sc Pn U ,flo- 



HARRIS. TbKTIAKV Moi.l.HSCA ( )l 11 \ \s. 





Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc'. PK^Ia. 1895 



Plate VI 



flAKI-'Ib. TbKTIAKV MULLUSCA ( >! ihXAS. 





Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1895. 



Plate- VII 



HARRIS, ri:RIIARY MOI.I.USCA ()|- TI-.XAS. 




I 




Proc. Acad. Nat Sci. Ph 



Plate VIII 



12a 



HAKKIS. TI-PTIM-'V MOLUCCA nl 1 l:\AS. 





Proc Acad. Nat Sci Phila if 



P'^t- IX 



4. 



HAKklh, I[:KII,\I''Y MOI.I.LSCA Oh IhXAS. 





'p..- .\radXal Sci.Philn ISO.T 



Plate \'. 



BALDWIN ON ACHATINELLA. 





IV.c.AcHfl X.-,l Sr, I'l.il,, ]S!J.-,. 



I'l.ilo XI. 



36 



4 



38 



^^^V^ 

 ^^^ ^ 



^ 



45 



4 



♦« 



I XJi 



»6 



BALDWIN ON ACHATINELLA. 





Proc. Acad. Nat. Scl. Phila. I895. 



Plate XII. 



QSr ]C> 



KELLER ON Plil.T AM )R A. 





p,^, Ar^id Na- S': P^^U '80 = 



Plate XIII 



MOORE ON HKIUEKICIA. 





Proc. Acad. Nat. So., Phlla., 1895. 



Piate XIV. 



H()\ ON H[:MHI(:iNI. 







PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 

 CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



STORAGE 





