





PROCEEDINGS 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1893. 



COMMITTEE ON PUBLICATION. 



John H. Redfield, Edward J. Nolan, M. D. , 



Thomas Meehan, Charles E. Smith, 



George H, Horn, M. D. 



Editor: EinVARD J. NOLAN, M. D. 



*-" 



''^'' 



PHILADELPHIA : 

 ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCE.^, 



LOGAN SQUARE, 



1894. 

 39 




Academy of Natural Sciences ok Philadelphia, 



March 29, 1894 



I hereby certify that copies of the Proceedings for 1893 have been 

 presented at the meetings of the Academy as follows : — 



March 



:SIarch 



March 



April 



April 



May 



July 



September 



October 



October 



December 



January 



February' 



ISIarch 



March 



1893. 

 1893. 

 1893. 

 1893. 

 1893. 

 1893. 

 1893. 

 1893. 

 1893. 

 1893. 

 1893. 

 1894. 

 1894. 

 1894. 

 1894. 



I 



f}SL 



K U6 



EDWARD J. NOLAN, 



Recording Secretary. 



I'RI\T(;l?^ AMI FNCiRAVERS, PHILA. 




LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS. 



With reference to ttie several articles contributed by each. 



For Verbal Comniunicatious see General Index. 



Brown, Arthur Erwiu. Notes on some Snakes from Tropical 

 America lately living in the Collection of the Zoological 



Society of Philadelphia 429 



Calvert, Philip P. The Odonate genus Ortholestes 377 



Chapman, Henry C, JM. D. The interpretation of certain verses 



of the First Chapter of Genesis in the light of paleontology 68 

 Notes on Choeropsis liberiensis (Morton) (Plate IV) . . ; . . 185 

 Observations on the Japanese Salamander, Cryptobranchus 



maximus (Schlegel) (Plates V, VI and VII) 227 



Chapman, Henry C, M. D. and Albert?. Brubaker, M. D. The 



radius of curvatures of the Cornea 349 



Cope, Edward I). A new extinct species of Cyprinidae 19 



A contribution to the herpetology of British Columbia . . . 181 

 Description of a lower jaw of Tetrabelodon Shepardii Leid^-. 202 

 On a collection of Batrachia and Eeptilia from southwest 



Missouri 383 



On the Batrachia and Reptilia of the Plains at Latitude 36° 



30' 386 



Geographic variations in Bassariscus astutus, with descrip- 

 tion of a new subspecies 413 



Dall, W. H. The phj'logeny of the Doeoglossa 285 



Dixon, Samuel G., M. D. Involution form of the Tubercle Bacil- 

 lus and the eflect of subcutaneous injection of organic sub- 

 stances on inflammations 100 



Ellis, J. B. and B. il. Everhart. New species of North Ameri- 

 can Fungi from various localities 128 



New species of Fungi from various localities 440 



Fox, "William J, The North American Larrida? 467 



Goldsmith, E. Notes on some minerals and rocks (Plates I and 



II) 174 



A tempered steel meteorite (Plate IX) 373 



Keller, Ida A. The glandular hairs of Brasenia peltata Pursh 



(Plate III) 188 



Meehan, Thomas. Contributions to the life histories of plants. 



No. 9 289 



Meehan, William E. A contribution to the flora of Greenland . 205 




Meyer, Abraham. Notes on the occurrence of quartz and other 

 minerals in the Chemung Measures, near the line of Ly- 

 coming and Tioga Counties, Pennsylvania 194 



Pyrophyllite slate in Northern Pennsylvania 197 



Moore, J. Percy. On some Leech-like parasites of American 



Crayfishes (Plate XII) 419 



Kex, George A., M. D. New North American Myxomycetes . . 364 



Khoads, Samuel R. The birds observed in British Columbia and 



Washington during the spring and summer, 1892 21 



Description of new species of North American .Mammals with 

 remarks on species of the genus Perognathus 404 



Ryder, John A. The inheritance of modifications due to distur- 

 bances of the earlj' stage of development, especially in the 



Japanese domesticated races of Gold-Carp 75 



The vascular respiratory mechanism of the vertical fins of the 

 viviparous Embiotocidpe 95 



Sharp, Benjamin, M. D. Catalogue of the Crustaceans in the 

 Museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadel- 

 phia 104 



Sterki, V. Observations on Vallouia (Plate VIII) 234 



Growth changes in the radula in Laud Mollusks (Plates X, 

 XI) 388 



Stone, Witmer. Description of a new species of Neotoma from 



Pennsylvania 16 



Strecker, Herman. Descriptions of two new species of North 



American Bombycid^e 282 



Tarr, Ralphs. Notes on the physical geography t>f Texas . . . 313 




PROCEEDINGS 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



PHILADELPHIA. 



189: 



January 3. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 



Sixty-three persons present. 



A paper entitled " The Interpretation of Certain Verses of the 

 First Chapter of Genesis in the Light of Paleontology," by Henry 

 C. Chapman, M. D., was presented for publication. 



The Council reported that the following Standing Committees 

 had been appointed to serve during the ensuing year: — 



On Library. — W. S. W. Ruschenberger, M. D., Henry C. 

 Chapman, M. D., Gavin W. Hart, Charles P. Perot and J. Bernard 

 Brinton, M. D. 



On Publications. — John H. Redfield, Charles E. Smith, Thomas 

 Meehan, George H. Horn, M. D., and Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 



On Instruction and Lectures. — Charles Morris, Isaac C. 

 Martindale, Harold Wingate, George A. Rex, M. D., and J. Bernard 

 Brinton, M. D. 



Standing Committee of Council on By-Laws. — W. S. W. 

 Ruschenberger, M. D., Theo. D. Rand, William Sellers and Isaac 

 J. Wistar. 

 2 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



The deaths of AVm. S. Pine, a member and P. R. Hoy, a cor- 

 respondent, were announced. 



The death on the .3rd inst. of Isaac C. Martindale, the Treasurer 

 of the Academy, having been announced the following minute was 

 adopted : — 



The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, in view of 

 the sudden death of Mr. Isaac C. Martindale, its late Treasurer, 

 expresses its profound regret thereat, and records its sense of the 

 great service rendered by him in the faithful, laborious and efficient 

 discharge of his duties as custodian of the Academy's funds. 



As a naturalist Mr. Martindale won the confidence and respect 

 of his fellow Academicians. He was regarded as one of the best 

 analytical botanists in the United States. His knowledge of special 

 American, European and Australian floras was very exact and wide. 

 His herbarium was one of the standard collections of the country, 

 frequently consulted by students of plants and always generously 

 placed at the service of his fellow botanists. 



As an entomologist he had acquired a good knowledge and 

 a valuable collection of Lepidoptera. At his death he was the Vice? 

 President of the American Entomological Society and Ento- 

 mological Section of the Academy. 



Mr. Martindale's relations to his associates were always most 

 pleasant and helpful. His invariable courtesy, willingness to aid 

 his fellow naturalists and his unselfish interest in the advancement 

 of science and especially the prosperity of the Academy are here 

 most cordially recognized and recorded. 



Metumorplmm of Sedimentary Rock.^. — Mr. Jos. Willcox stated 

 that he had observed an example of the metamorphism of sedi- 

 mentary deposits into crystalline rocks on an island in Rideau Lake, 

 Canada, about 40 miles north of Alexandria Bay. At this locality 

 the Laurentian granite is covered by gneiss rocks which in some 

 cases appear like a coarse granite containing cleavable feldspar as 

 large as an egg. The sedimentary origin of these gneiss rocks is 

 indicated by many enclosed, smooth, round quartz pebbles some of 

 which are more than two inches in diameter. 



January 10. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 

 Forty persons present. 

 Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11 



" On a now extinct species of Cyprinid?e," by Edw. D. Cope. 



"On the Inheritance of ^lodifications due to the Disturbance of 

 the Early Stage of Development in the Japanese Domesticated 

 Races of Gold Carp," by John A. Ryder. 



" The Vascular Respiratory ]\Iechanisni of the Vertical Fins in the 

 Viviparous Embiotocidse," by John A. Ryder. 



January 17. 

 The President, General Isaac J. AVistar, in the chair. 

 Fifty-three persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 

 " Catalogue of the Crustaceans in the Museum of the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia," by Benjamin Sharp, M. D. 

 " Description of a New Species of Neotonia," by Witmer Stone. 

 Mr. Chas. p. Perot was elected Treasurer to fill the vacancy 

 caused by the death of Mr. Isaac C. Martindale. 



January- 24. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 

 Fifty-nine persons present. 



A paper entitled " New Species of North American Fungi from 

 various localities," by J. B. Ellis and B. i\I. Everhart, was presented 

 for publication. 



The deaths of Dr. J. S. Newberry and Sir Richard Owen, corres- 

 pondents, were announced. 



The Forms of Edentulous Jmvs in the Human Subject. — Dr. Har- 

 rison Allen demonstrated the peculiarities of the edentulous 

 upper and lower jaws of the human subject. He held that the 

 statement made that the jaws exhibit the result of uniform absorp- 

 tion of the alveolar processes was not true. The bone tissue which 

 held the teeth in place being a complemental structure is indeed 

 rapidly absorbed after the teeth are lost. But when the alveolar 

 processes have disappeared, a secondary process of adaptive hyperos- 

 tosis takes place. These statements relate in the main to the upper 

 jaw, but the conclusions can be applied also to the lower jaw. 



This adaptive process occurs in three regions, namely, that for 

 the incisor teeth, that for the canine tooth and the first bicuspid tooth, 

 and that for the second bicuspid tooth and the molar teeth. These 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



regions answer roughly to those occupied by various kinds of teeth, 

 and differ in much the same way as the incisiform, caniniform 

 and molariform teeth differ from one another. The region of the 

 incisor teeth is compressed and beaked, that of the canine tooth and 

 the first bicuspid tooth is coarsely conical or tubercular, while that 

 of the second bicuspid and molar teeth is either broad and massive, 

 or compressed. It is rare to find an edentulous dental arch uni- 

 formly hyperostosed or uniformly atrophied, but one or more of the 

 regions above named assume the form described, or at least exhibit 

 indications of changes different in character from the mere loss of 

 the alveolar processes. 



The lower jaw passes up in front of the upper jaw in aged individ- 

 uals who have lost teeth. As a result, the attrition of the incisorial 

 region of the lower jaw is secured against the front of the upper jaw. 

 The result attained by such attrition Dr. Allen called "shearing." 

 Shearing takes place in proportion as the upper jaw at its anterior 

 arc is beaked. It is interesting to find that when "shearing "is 

 present the articular surface of the condyloid process is invariably 

 at the anterior part. 



The loss of the alveolar process in the incisorial region of the 

 upper jaw causes the incisive foramen to assume an absolutely new 

 position in relation to the line of mastication. It exhibits a dispo- 

 sition to lie in the dental arch instead of back of it. The attri- 

 tion by "shearing" however, protects the contents of the foramen 

 from pressure. 



The region in the upper alveolar arch directly back of the last 

 molar is apt to become symmetrically hyperostosed. These masses 

 appear to be dominated by the pyramidal process of the palatal 

 bones and the pterygoid process of the sphenoid bone. At least 

 they are not used for mastication. 



The subdivision of the teeth into kinds, which answer to the 

 incisors, canines, bicuspids and molars, correlates to the strongest 

 suture lines in the face, that is to say, the incisors correspond to the 

 premaxillo-vomerine junction, the canine and first bicuspid to the 

 fronto-maxillaryjunction, and the remaining teeth to the fronto-raalar 

 junction. 



The edentulous skulls examined were 14 in number, distributed 

 as follows; Ancient Egyptian, 3; Arabian, 2; Hindu, 2; Peru- 

 vian, 2 ; Negro, 1 ; X. A. Indian, 2 ; Anglo-American, 2. Of this 

 number the Anglo-Americans alone could by any possibility repre- 

 sent the teeth of persons who could have worn artifical teeth, and in 

 this way modify^ the act of mastication in the aged. Since one of 

 the Anglo-American crania was that of an idiot, the probability is 

 reduced to a minimum that an artificial denture had been used 

 during life in any of the specimens examined. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCKS OF PHILADELPHIA. 13 



f Entire arch hyperostosed, 3. 

 \ Enlire arch absorbed, 4. 

 ( Left side arch hj'perostosed, ]. 

 { Right side arch liyperos'osed, 0. 

 ( Left side arch absorbed, 2. 

 \ Right side arch absorbed, 4. 



Region of incisors hyperostosed (" beaked "), 6. 



Region of incisors " sheared, 5. 



f r Right and Left, 2 



I Region of canine and first bi-cuspid hyperostosed-^ Left, 1 



J ' (Right, 1 



1 r Right and Left, 2 



I Region of canine and first bi-cuspid absorbed < Left, 



L i Right, 



r> • r J u- -J J r Riijht and Left, 2. 



Region of second bicuspid and 1 t 7. i 



molars h)perostosed J ,^ / -.' 



T> • r J 1 • • 1 J ( Riijlit and Left, 0- 



Region of second bicuspid and 1 i r, i 



molars absorbed 1 ,,. ,' ,," 



I Right, 2. 



13 • r J u- J J f Right and Left, 



Region of second bicuspid and 1 , ^^ 



molars " beaked " J „. ,' ,,' 



(^ Right, (). 



Symmetrical hyperostoses in alveolar arch in front of pterygoid process 8. 

 Incisive foramen in hne of dental arch 8. 



It is noteworthy that from the entire series only four showed com- 

 plete absence of any secondary bone adaptation consequent upon 

 the loss of alveolar processes, and that all of these were from civil- 

 ized races, two ancient Egyptian and two Anglo-American. The 

 want of harmony between the secondary adaptations probably cor- 

 relates with the irregular rate at which the teeth are lost. Individ- 

 ual peculiarities in this regard are doubtless numerous. 



Dr. Allen assumed that the coarse food of savage and semi-savage 

 people caused the jaws even in an edentulous condition to be used 

 actively in the act of mastication, while the more carefully prepared 

 food suitable to the aged of civilized people enabled the jaws to have 

 comparative rest, and hence the mechanical conditions which pre- 

 determined the localization of new structures were not active. The 

 speaker concluded that the series of observations strengthens the 

 position taken that the same forces which differentiate the kind of 

 teeth operate in fashioning the shape of the jaws, even after the loss 

 of the teeth. 



Dr. C. N. Pierce remarked that the four superior arches, which 

 Doctor Allen has presented as being representatives of civilized 

 races, could not be accepted as indicating a uniform condition of 

 edentulous jaws at the present time. The crania collected from 

 civilized communities in the ftiture will, in their edentulous jaws, 

 certainly show less irregularity in the individual alveolar ridges 

 than was present in the several specimens exhibited by Dr. 

 Allen, and in the absence or ))resence of a ridge would not 




14 PROCKEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



display the iinitbrmity seen in the four exhibited. In the future, 

 the greatest variations will certainly be exhibited. In some a prom- 

 inence will be present, which in life amounted to almost a monstros- 

 ity, while in others there will be found a complete atrophy or 

 absorption of the entire ridge in both the superior and inferior 

 maxilla. The symmetry of the ridge will in a measure be due to 

 the uniformity of pressure from an artificial denture, and an absence of 

 the forces alluded to by Dr. Allen, which doubtless had had in some 

 cases an influence in the secondary development of bony structure, 

 while those parts were forced to perform the function of the teeth 

 which had been prematurely lost, though some of the prominences 

 to which attention had been drawn, were, in the estimation of Dr. 

 Pierce, due to the diflTerence in the time of the loss of the teeth. 

 Why some maxillaries should show such complete atrophy, while 

 others had secondary development, Dr. Pierce could not explain, but 

 he believed it was associated with temperamental and nutritional 

 conditions. The development certainly indicated a healthy recupera- 

 tive power on the part of the individual. 



With reference to the protrusion of the lower jaw and chin, and the 

 change in adaptation of condyle to glenoid cavity, which Dr. Allen 

 had so aptly illustrated. Dr. Pierce thought they could be explained 

 upon the principle of use and disuse, with adaptation of structures. 

 In infancy, the angle resulting from the relation of the ramus to the 

 body of the bone was much greater than a right angle, indeed the 

 ramus was but little above the same horizontal plane occupied by the 

 body of the bone, and the jaw was capable only of vertical and antero- 

 posterior motion, such as is essential to sucking or nursing. As the 

 three true or permanent molars are developed, the ramus assumes its 

 vertical position, forming almost a right angle with the body of the 

 bone, and at the same time making lateral or horizontal movement 

 possible while establishing the concomitant relation between the 

 condyles and glenoid cavities. As these permanent molars later in 

 life are lost, the force upon the jaw in occlusion is confined to the 

 anterior part or incisive locality, which would necessarily tend to 

 increase the angle and protrude the chin. This occurs sometimes 

 quite early in life and while all the anterior teeth are in position. 

 At the same time that the vertical motion is exerting this influence 

 the necessity for lateral motion has ceased, by the loss of the 

 grinders; hence the change in the relative position of the condyle, 

 which was so well shown by the previous speaker, and which has 

 been necessitated by a return to the vertical and anteroposterior 

 motion common to infancy, with the loss of the horizontal or lateral 

 motion of maturity. 



In consequence of his election to the office of Treasurer, Mr. 

 Chas. P. Perot resigned from the Finance Committee. Dr. Geo. H. 

 Horn was elected to fill the vacancy. 




1893.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 15 



January 31. 

 The President, General Isaac J. AVistar, in the chair. 



One hundred and one persons present. 



The deaths of Nicholas Koksharow and Axel Gadoliu, corre- 

 spondents, were announced. 



Mr. Thomas A. Robinson was elected to fill a vacancy in the 

 Council caused by the ex-officio membership therein of Mr. Chas. 

 P. Perot. 



The following were elected members : — 



Geo. M. Warren, Nelson H. Strong, Norris J. Scott, Thomas Say 

 Speakman, Clarence B. Moore, Mary K. Gibson, Jr., J. Howard 

 Gibson, Thomas Bradley, Edwin Greble Dreer, Richard C. Schiedt, 

 Charles N. B. Camac, Wm. Evans Wood, John C. Sims, William 

 D. Winsor, Clarence B. Newbold, Wm. H. Joyce, Alexander J. 

 Cassatt, Samuel F. Houston, Alexander E. Harvey, Charles Hacker, 

 Edw. A. Buckley, Jr., Mark T. Patterson, Geo. B. Heckel, Benjamin 

 W. Richards, Eugene Delano, Malcolm Lloyd, Charles H. Banes, 

 Theodore C. Search, William H. Ingham and Algernon Sydney 

 Logan. 



The following were elected correspondents : — William Libbey, Jr. 

 of Princeton, N. J., Alfred Russell Wallace of London, G. B., and 

 G. H. Theodor Eimer of Tubingen, Germany. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




16 proceedings of the academy of [1893. 



description of a new species of neotoma from pennsylvania. 

 By Witmer Stone. 



I have recently obtained through the kindness of Mr. J. G. Dillin 



two specimens of a Avood rat which were secured near the top of 

 South Mountain (2,000 ft.), Cumberland County, Penna., some six 

 miles from Pine Grove, at u point known as Lewis's Cave, 

 which constitute the first record of the occurrence of the genus 

 Neotoma in this State. 



The first specimen of this rat secured by Mr. Dillin was a 

 male, and was taken in a trap set for raccoons. It was at once rec- 

 ognized as different from the common brown rat, and was preserved 

 with a view to having its identity settled, but was afterward unfor- 

 tunately lost. 



The next day, Dec. 2, 1892, a female specimen was secured and 

 was brought to me in the flesh. At my request INIr. Dillin wrote 

 to friends who were hunting on South Mountain and secured one 

 more specimen. 



After comparing these two specimens with a series of Neotomas 

 from the collection of the American Museum of Natural History 

 kindly loaned me by Mr. F. M. Chapman and some specimens 

 loaned by Dr. C. Hart Merriam, of the U. S. Department of Agri- 

 culture, I am convinced that they represent an undescribed species, 

 for which I propose the name of Neotoma pennsylvanica. 



This species may be distinguished from N. floridana of the South 

 Atlantic and Gulf States by its larger size, its densely hairy and 

 distinctly bicolored tail and by certain well marked cranial charac- 

 ters. 



The specimens here described are both females, and are perhaps 

 not quite full sized, though evidently adult. The male specimen, 

 according to Mr. Dillin's account, must have been at least twenty 

 inches (508 mm.) long, and had the tail more hairy than the two in 

 my possession. The detailed description follows : 



Neotoma pennsylvanica sp. iiov. Pennsylvania Wood Rat. 



Type No. 156 Collection of Witmer Stone, 9 South Mountain, 

 Cumberland County, Penna., Dec. 2, 1892. J. G. Dillin. 



General color similar to that of N. floridana, plumbeous above 

 with a number of black hairs interspersed and a yellowish brown 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 



undertone which is pure and bright on the sides of the head and 

 body, becoming almost a pinkish tint on the flanks. Feet and lower 

 surface pure white. 



Tail densely hairy, surpassing in this respect any specimens of 

 either N. floridana or N. mexieana that I have seen. The color of 

 the tail is black above and pure white beneath, the line of demarc- 

 ation being very sharp ; viewed from directly above, the scales are 

 completely hidden by the hairs. The two females in my possession 

 measure as follows : 



Length, 

 mm. 



No. 1.56, Collection W. S 403 



No. 1.57, " " 416 



Comparing the skull of N. pennsylvanica with that of N. floridana 

 we find it larger and proportionately longer and narrower. The 

 upper surface is more nearly horizontal {i. e. not so much curved), 

 the frontal bones are much depressed along the frontal suture, the 

 outer edges next to the orbits forming decided ridges. The ptery- 

 goid processes are larger and converge more than in N. floridana, 

 so that the meso-pterygoid fossa is longer and narrower. The upper 

 margin of the infra-orbital foramen as viewed from above is also 

 much narrower in N. pennsylvanica. The teeth are rather heavier 

 than in N. floridana, and the distance between the anterior molar 

 and the incisor (from the alveolse) is relatively greater. 



A table of cranial measurements follows, the measurements of a 

 male (No. 1,129) and female (No. 1,127) N. floridana from Gaines- 

 ville, Florida, Amer. Mas. Nat. Hist, collection, being given for 

 comparison : — 




18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



N. pennsyl- 



vanica. 



Coll. W. Stone 



No. 157. No. 1.56 



Occipito-nasal length 53 — 



Basilar length (from foramen magnum to incisor). 449 54 



Zygomatic breadth 27 27 



Mastoid breadth 20 6 20 



Interorbital constriction 7 66 



Length of nasals 20 21 



Foramen magnum to incisive foramen 31 — 



Foramen magnum to palate 20"6 i — 



Length of upper molar series (on alveolcc) 9*8 10 



Length of incisive foramen 10 106 



Length of mandible (symphysis to angle) 30'5 30 



I 

 << " " (symphysis to condyle) ' 322' 31 



Coronoid process from angle 153 14'5 



Ratios to Basilar Length. 



Zygomatic breadth 60*1 j 



Mastoid breadth 45*9 j 



Nasals 44-5 



Upper molar series (on alveolae) 2r8 



Incisive foramen 22'2 



Foramen magnum to incisive foramen 69 ! 



Foramen magnum to palate | 45"8 ' 



[1893. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



A NEW EXTINCT SPECIES OF CYPRINID^. 



By E. D. Cope. 



Dr. J. Lindalil, Geologist of Illinois, recently sent me some spec- 

 imens of fossil fishes which were found in Pulaski County, in the 

 southern part of that State. They are indifferently preserved on 

 lamina? of a papier kohl of lacustrine origin, which is frequently 

 impregnated with pyrite. Five specimens present characters of 

 value, but no one of them is sufficiently well preserved to furnish all 

 the necessary definitions. However, the specimens agree in all 

 points where comparisons can be made, so that I believe them to 

 pertain to a single species. 



The characters displayed by this fish refer it to the Cyprinidae, 

 and to the neighborhood of the genus Leuciscus. In specimen No. 

 8,402 a cast of one of the inferior pharyngeal bones is preserved, 

 and this displacj's three obtusely conical teeth of an external row, 

 and a trace of a single smaller tooth of the internal row. There 

 was apparently another tooth of the external row inferior to and 

 larger than the others ; the four forming a series on a curved line 

 corresponding with the axis of the bone. The ajjices of these 

 teeth are not perfect. The fins do not present any conspicuous 

 spines; and the front of the dorsal fin is above the ventral ; mouth 

 terminal. These characters would refer this fish to Minnilus or 

 Cliola, but another character appears to distinguish it from these. 

 This is the absence of scales. In none of the dozen specimens sent 

 is any trace of scales to be found. As compared with the scaleless 

 genera, the American Meda, and the Old World Aulopyrie, the 

 present fish differs in the absence of conspicuous spines at the front 

 of the dorsal and anal fins. Supposing the absence of scales to be 

 normal, I refer the Illinois species to a new genus under the name 

 of AphelichtJiys. The species I describe as 

 Aphelichthys lindahlii sp. nov. 



The specific characters are derived from four specimens. These 



I tabulate as follows: 



Fin rays. 



Dorsal Vert. Caudal Vert. D. A. V. C. 

 No. 8,4(i2 1-5 12 11 



No. 8,404 -^ 2] 13 



No. 8,397 15 , 20 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



The caudal fin is emargiuate. The general form is moderately 

 slender, much as in our chubs of the genus Semotilus. The length 

 of the head measured above, enters the length to the caudal notch 

 about five times ; and when measured on the side about four times ; 

 and the depth at the front of the dorsal fin enters the same about 

 four times. The mouth is directed obliquely upward, and its rictus 

 appears to be nearly in the line of the anterior border of the orbit. 

 The paired fins are rather short, the pectorals not reaching the ven- 

 trals, nor the ventrals the anal (No. 8,404). The borders of the 

 dorsal and anal are straight (8,402, 8,404). The ribs and vertebral 

 spines are slender. The vertebx-al bodies have on each side a lon- 

 gitudinal median keel, which is bounded above and below by a 

 fossa. 



Dimensions. 



MM. 



Length of superior surface of head of No. 8,402 15"5 



Length of No. 8,404a to no|,ch of caudal fin 39*5 



Length of head of No. 8,404a on side 9 



Total length of No. 8,397 160 



Length of head of No. 8,397 on side 41 



Length from end of muzzle-to origin of dorsal fin (No. 8,397) 77 



The earliest Cyprinidce in North America whose horizon is posi- 

 tively known are from the Idaho beds of Idaho and eastern Oregon, 

 which are of Pliocene age. It is likely that the lake deposit in 

 which the Aphelichthys lindahlii is found is not of an earlier age 

 than the Idaho beds. Species of existing genera of the family 

 occur, however, in the middle Miocene of Eurojie. I dedicate the 

 species to my friend Dr. Josua Lindahl, State Geologist of Illinois. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



THE BIRDS OBSERVED IN BRITISH COLUMBIA AND WASHINGTON 

 DURING SPRING AND SUMMER, 1892. 



. BY SAMUEL N. RHOADS. 



It is proposed to present in the following pages an ornithologi- 

 cal resume of a collecting trip made in Washington and British 

 Columbia, from March 24 to September 8, 1892, together with an 

 annotated list of the birds observed in those regions. 



While ornithology claimed the greater part of my time, collec- 

 tions were also made of the mammals, reptiles, shells and plants of 

 the districts visited, concerning which further publications will prob- 

 ably appear in the " Proceedings." 



The bibliography of Washington and British Columbian ornithol- 

 ogy is very meagre. Since the Cooper-Suckley Pacific Railroad 

 Reports, nothing of much value relating to Washiugton birds has 

 been published except the local lists of Mr. R. N. Lawrence.^ 

 Publications relating especially to British Columbia birds may be 

 included under three titles: " The Naturalist in British Columbia," 

 J. K. Lord, 1866 ; " On a Collection of Birds made by Mr. C. P. 

 Streator in British Columbia," etc., 1890, F. M. Chapman; and 

 "Check List of British Columbia Birds," John Fannin, 1891. Of 

 these the second is authoritative, and based on authentic specimens 

 a remark which in the end equally applies to Mr. Fannin's list, some 

 of his most questionable statements being given on the authority of 

 other persons and his mistakes the evident result of not having con- 

 sulted series of specimens from different localities. Lord's list, given 

 in the appendix to volume second of his work, if judged by the 

 strictest standard of the modern faunal list is nearly worthless in the 

 present connection. It is based on many observations and a few 

 specimens taken on both sides of the forty-ninth parallel, between 

 British Columbia and Washington. On this account I am forced to 

 ignore it. Mr. Chapman's list includes 160 species, while that of 

 Mr. Fannin enumerates 308. To their combined lists I am enabled 

 to add twenty-one species coming under my own observation, seven- 

 teen of which are in the collection. With these additions, the British 

 Columbia list, after throwing out two synonyms (jj^chmophonis 

 I ^ — — 



lAuk, Jan. and Oct., 1892. 




22 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1893. 



clarkiKJ) and Dendrioca uestiva morcomi) and excluding Drijohates 

 puhescem from Fannin's list, numbers 326. 

 The additional species are : 



SimorJnjnch ».s puxillus. 

 Charadriws dominieus fulvus. 

 CaUipepla californica vallicola. 

 Buho virf/iiiiaiim. 

 Bubo rin/'nn(i)im subarcticiis. 

 GhtKCuUiiin f/iioma. 

 Perisoreus canadensis capitalis. 

 Chondestes grammacus strigatus. 

 Zonotrichia quenila. 

 Spizella socialis. 

 PassereUa iliaca schidacea. 



Clivicola ripavia. 

 Vireo huttoni obscurus. 

 Helviinthophila ruficapilla gid- 



turalis. 

 Dendroica maculosa. 

 Sylvania pusilla. 

 Icteria virens longicauda. 

 Certhia familiaris montana, 

 Parus hudsonicus Columbia nus. 

 Turdus ustulatus suminsonii. 

 Turdus aonalaschkoe pallasii. 



One of these, Parus Imdsonicus columbianus, is described as new, 

 a detailed notice of which, together with that of ten other species 

 given in this paper, appears in the Auk for January, 1893. 



To the combined lists of Cooper, Suckley and Lawrence, 

 twenty-five species of Washington birds are added. These, with 

 those not included in Mr. Lawence's Gray's Harbor lists, are: 



Cohjmbns holb(ellii. 

 Urinator arcticus. 

 Swiorhynchus pusiUus. 

 Synth/iboramphus antiquus. 

 Brachijramph as marmoratiis.'^ 

 Cepphns coliimba.^ 

 Uria troile californica. 

 Lams aryentatiis smithsonianus. 

 La /-UN cu lifornieus.^ 

 Larn.-< delawarensls^ 

 Larus brae hyrhynclms. 

 Phalacrocorax dilophus cincin- 



atas. 

 Merga nser serrator.^ 

 Lop h odi/tes cucullatus.^ 

 Anas di.'<cors. 

 Spatula clypeata.^ 

 Aix sponsa.^ 



Tringa canvtus. 



Totanus flavipes. 



Arenaria interpres.^ 



Hoematopus baclim an i. 



Oreortyx pictus.^^ 



CaUipepla californica vallicola. 



Den dragajJ us fran klin ii.^'^ 



Lagopus leucurus. 



Cathartes aura.^ 



Circus hudsonius. 



Falco peregrinus pealei. 



Falco columbarius suckleyi. 



Asio Wilson ian us. 



Syrnium occidentale. 



Megascopic asio hennicottii.^ 



Dryobates pubescens gairdneri.* 



Sphyrapicus ruher.^ 



Cypseloides niger. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



Chcetura vauxii. 



Aythya americana. 

 Histrion icus histrionwus.^^ 

 Anser alhifrons gambeli.'^^ 

 Branta canadensis hutchinsiL* 

 Branta canadensis, oceidentalis.* 

 Branta canadensis minima. 

 Olor buccinator.'^ 

 Grxis me.vicana. 

 Porza n a caro Una. 

 Fulica americana.* 



Pica pica hudsonica. 



Acjelaiiis phcenicens.* 



Progne subis.* 



Vireo solitarius cassinii.* 



Dendroica coronata.* 



Sitta cayoline)isis nculeata.* 



Sitta canadensis.* 



Parus atricapilhs occidentalis. 



Owing to the former incompleteness of bird material from the 

 northwest, the relationships of some western forms to their eastern 

 allies has remained a vexed question. The series in my possession 

 have, in some instances, supplied this deficiency and seem to justify 

 certain changes in nonienclature. Of these may be mentioned, 1. 

 CorvKs caarinus merged with the northwest form of C. amerlcanii.% 

 and conjointly separated from eastern C. ameriranus under the name 

 Corvus americanus cauriniis. 2, The relegation of Melospiza lineolnl 

 striata to synonymy. 3. The elevation of the northwest Warbling 

 Vireo to its former rank of Vireo gilvus sivainsonii. 4. St/lvania pus- 

 ilia p II eo lata ma.de synonymous yvith Sylvania jnisilla. 5. The possi- 

 bility that Turdiis aonalaschkce and Tardus aonalaschkae pallasil are 

 specifically distinct. 



The localities where collections were made number fourteen. In 

 order of sequence they may thus be separately described : 



1. Tacoma, Washington, March 4-28. 



2. Nisqually Flats, Washington, March 29-Apri] 22. 



The situation of Tacoma on Puget Sound is well known, that of 

 Nisqually Flats, fourteen miles southwest of it, at the mouth of the 

 river of the same name, though less known, is far more historic ground, 

 being part of the territory surveyed by the well known naturalists 

 of the Pacific Railroad Expedition of 1853-55. The country in 

 this region is moderately hilly and densely forest-clad, save where 

 intervening level, park-like areas indicate by their stunted vegeta- 

 tion the presence of vast beds of glacial gravel. The shore lines 

 of Puget Sound present an almost unbroken frontage of abrupt, 

 fir-clad slopes from 100 to 500 feet high ; many rocky islands, some 

 of goodly size, intervene and the uplands are well interspersed with 



* Asterisk after species given by Suckley and Cooper. 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



lakes. Alluvial tide meadows, of which the Nisqually rank as 

 the most extensive, occasionally break the monotony of the shore. 

 These are grass grown, and, along the river banks, bear cottouwood, 

 aspen, vine-maple, willow and giant cedar, in some places joined by 

 bush and vine in an inextricable tangle. The tides fall from nine 

 to twelve feet below high water, exposing at Nisqually thousands of 

 acres of mud-flats which afford subsistence to myriads of water fowl. 

 During the winter of 1891-2 it did not snow, nor did the ground 

 freeze, at Tacoma. Twenty-three of the thirty April days spent in 

 this region were rainy ; only two were cloudless ; but the total pre- 

 cipitation for the month was less than four and a half inches. 

 There are no mountains in the near vicinity, the central Cascades 

 being forty miles distant. 



3. Victoria, B. C, ) o ok 



4. Goldstream,B.C.,i^^^^y'^-2^- 



Goldstream is a ranch about twenty miles north of Victoria, 

 Vancouver Island. The features of the southern part of the island 

 are those of a rocky, open, hill-country, sometimes densely wooded 

 but often relieved by open stretches of a park-like character dotted 

 with lakes. An exceptional feature is the presence ot oaks, Quer- 

 cus garryana, which appear here and nowhere else in British Colum- 

 bia, nor in Washington. The mountains rarely attain an elevation 

 of 2,000 feet ; precipitation less and summer temperature greater 

 than on Puget Sound. 



5. Lulu Island, B. C, May 26-June 1. 



A delta of the Frazer River, two and a half feet below neap 

 tides, dyked throughout and covered with grass, bushes and isolated 

 higher tracts of woodland. Much of the laud is fertile and well 

 cultivated. 



6. Ashcroft, B. C, June 2-12. 



Ashcroft is on the northernmost frontier of the Great Basin or 

 arid upper Sonoran region, or, as Dr. Merriam rightly terms it, in 

 the area of "Transition " from that life-region to the Boreal Zone. 

 British Columbia rainfall is here at its minimum, and summer tem- 

 perature at its maximum. Fauna and flora coincide remarkably 

 with those of Arizona found above an elevation of 4,000 feet, the 

 mountains about Ashcroft rarely reaching that altitude. Ashcroft 

 is on the west bank of the Thompson River, in a narrow valley, 

 1,500 feet above the sea, hemmed in by mountains thinly clad with 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25 



bunch grass, cacti, sage brush aud rose bushes, and bearing on their 

 summits open forests of fir and pine. 



7. Bonaparte, B. C, June 13-17. 



The first stopping place on the famous Cariboo Road which con- 

 nects Ashcroft with the northern mining regions, and twenty miles 

 away from the latter place. Bonaparte is at the southern limit of 

 the true Boreal region and the northern limit of abundant cacti and 

 sage brush. Its mean elevation is 1,000 feet higher than Ashcroft. 

 Salpincte.9 obsoletus, Tijranuiis vertiealis, S((ijorni'< mi/a and Ideriis 

 bullockii draw the line at this point. 



8. Clinton, B. C, } ^ i« T i 7 



9. Lac La Hache, B. C, i ^""^ ^^"^^^^ ^- 



Clinton, thirty miles north of Ashcroft, rests in a green valley at 

 the foot of outlying spurs of the Cascades. Its elevation is about 

 2,500 feet. It is the first step into the typical Boreal environment 

 of pine, fir, spruce, juniper and aspen, preparing one for the upland 

 lake plateaus in which lakes La Hache and Quesnel form a con- 

 spicuous feature. 



To reach La Hache from Clinton the stage line passes for twenty 

 miles over a broad, wooded ridge, 4,000 to 5,000 feet high, and 

 descends again to 2,400 feet in the La Hache Valley. Both locali- 

 ties are semi-arid, well wooded, devoid of much under-growth, cov- 

 ered with nutritious grasses and thickly dotted with alkaline and 

 fresh-water lakes which have no visible outlet. The climate is not 

 rigorous and singularly equable for the latitude. 



Lac La Hache was the northern terminus of my journey, 200 

 miles north of the United States, in latitude 52°. 



10. Kamloops, B.C., July 12-15. 



Fifty miles east of Ashcroft at head of Kamloops Lake. Simi- 

 lar in situation and environment to Ashcroft Avith slightly greater 

 rainfall. The border of the arid region continues eastwardly along 

 the Canadian Pacific Kailway, from Kamloops, fifty miles, nearly 

 to Salmon River, where it descends directly south to the head of 

 Okanagan Lake, thence east to the foot of the Gold Range which 

 bounds it on that side to within twenty miles of the United States. 

 At this point it widens suddenly, extending eastwardly to and 

 beyond the valley of the Columbia River. 



il. Sicamous, k C, July 16-19. 



A railroad Junction of the Canadian Pacific Railway with the 

 Shuswap and Okanagan branch which runs fifty miles south into 




26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



the best agricultural valley of the Province. Sicamous overlooks 

 Shuswap Lake, into which it is nearly crowded by the surrounding 

 mountains that here flank the western slopes of the Gold Range. 

 The mountains are rugged, densely wooded, and those above 5,000 

 feet are topped with snow. We begin here to have a reproduction of 

 the climatic conditions which, in the more easterly Selkirk Range, 

 correspond so nearly to those of the west slopes of the Cascades. 



12. Vernon, B. C, July 21-August 11. 



Terminus of Okanagan and Shuswap railway, in the midst of the 

 famous Spulamacheen Valley. Rainfall is sufficient to mature sta- 

 ple crops without irrigation. Vernon is surrounded by a rolling, 

 open, mountainous country with wooded elevations. The variety 

 and abundance of its fauna and flora are astonishing. Mean eleva- 

 tion of the valley is 1,100 feet, that of the surrounding mountains 

 2,500 to 3,000 feet. Climate, that of northern Pennsylvania, with 

 less rainfall. 



13. Nelson, B. C, August 16-23. 



A mining town in the southern Selkirks on the west shore of 

 Kootenay Lake. Situated among rugged, cliflT-like mountains at 

 1,200 feet. While its climate is less moist than that of the west 

 slope, the abundant vegetation is characteristic of the Selkirks. 



14. Field, B. C, August 27-September 3. 



In the central Rocky Mountains, 5,000 feet above the sea and on 

 the line of the Canadian Pacific Railway, through Kicking Horse 

 Pass, eight miles west of the eastern boundary of British Columbia 

 and thirty miles east of the Columbia River. The scenery around 

 Field is a fitting climax to that which greets the eye from every 

 point of vantage in the mountain-burdened Province of British 

 Columbia. From boreal to alpine is a comparatively short step in 

 the natural history of Field. 



In general, the faunal position of those parts of Puget Sound, 

 South Vancouver Island and Lulu Island visited by me is simple, 

 but in British Columbia, as a whole, it is quite complex. The for- 

 mer localities are included in the typical northwest coast region of 

 excessive rainfall which varies from sixty to one hundred inches 

 yearly in the localities where collections were made. The coast 

 region, while essentially boreal in character, possesses many ele- 

 ments peculiar to itself, due to moisture, cloudy skies, temperate and 

 equable climate and the density of the resulting vegetation. It also 

 aff^ords shelter for some species which have been considered repre- 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27 



sentative of Californian and Sonoran sub-regions, such as Glauci- 

 dium gnoma calijornkmm, Sijru'unn occidentale, Coceyzus americanus 

 oceidentalis, Vireo hutfoni (^obsennis), Salpinctes ohsoletax, and Psal- 

 tnparus inmimus. There is also a slight intermingling element of 

 typical eastern forms in the central and northerly part of the Pacific 

 coast fauna due to similarity of its climate to that of the North 

 Atlantic coast and the accessibility of the region to migrants from 

 the northwest interior and Alaska. Thus we have Spizella socialis, 

 Empidonax pusillus tmUlii, Dendroica coronata, Spinus tristis, Colap- 

 tes auratus (?) and Si/lvcmia pudUa breeding on Vancouver Island, 

 while in the interior of British Columbia, east of the Cascades, these 

 are wholly, or for the most part, replaced hy Spizella socialis arizonoe, 

 Empidonax pu8illi(-<!, Dctidroica auduboni and Colapte^ cafer, Spinus 

 tristis appearing (?) to be absent. 



As a whole, the province of British Columbia includes a diversity 

 of fauna] characters which no single geographic area in America 

 can match. As a result it may further boast of a longer list of 

 summer residents than any equal area included in the A. O. U. 

 check list limits. Approximately these number 330 in British Col- 

 umbia. In the rest of British America, an area ten times larger^ 

 it is about 365 ; in the Middle States, 177, and in the United 

 States east of the Mississippi, 300. This exceptional showing is 

 brought about by a conjunction, intrusion and overlapping of the 

 Arctic, Boreal and Transition life zones. It is further complicated 

 by the westerly extension of Atlantic-boreal forms to the Pacific, 

 the intrusion of upper Sonoran species into the central, arid region, 

 the straggling of Pacific coast forms across the Cascades, the sojourn 

 of Arctic species on the higher mountains and " barren grounds " 

 of the north and the southward migration of all, including land and 

 marine species of the polar regions, across common territory. This 

 cosmopolitan feature of British Columbian biology makes the study 

 of its zoogeography both difficult and fascinating. Mr. Chapman 

 has pointed out some of these peculiarities in his paper on the 

 Streator collection, and considering that he had no personal acquain- 

 tance with the country, his deductions are remarkably just. After 

 what has been said on the subject, however, we cannot admit that 

 in British Columbia "faunal lines are not so complicated " as in. 

 "northern California," for they are infinitely more so. Mr. Chapman 

 has drawn close lines for the eastern boundary of the habitat of 

 so-called " coast forms," but of the thirty-one species enumerated 




28 TROCEEDINGS OK THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



by him as limited thereto, ten: — Dendragapus obscurus ftdigiiiosu-'', 

 Bonasa nmhellm sabini, Megascops a-<io kennicottii, Bubo virghdanus 

 saturutux, Colaptfs cafer sataratior, Jinico hyemalis oregonux, Melo^piza 

 fasciata guttata, TroglodifteH hieinalis paclficus, Regnlus satrapa oliva- 

 ceus and Turdus aonalaschkcp, are represented in various localities 

 between and including the Cascades and the Rockies. Of those 

 restricted by him to territory east of the Cascades, Dendragapus 

 franklinii, Bona'<a nmheJlus togafa, Bubo nr go nanus {f), Falco pere- 

 grinus anaium, Falco colntnbarhi", Aniinodtxonns sandu'ieJien.^is alau- 

 dintis and Sylvania pu-^il/a, are also found west of them. 



It is thus seen that coast and interior species overlap across wide 

 areas. This is probably due less to migration than to isolated 

 reproduction of eastern and western environments in alternate sec- 

 tions of country induced by altitude, the Japan current, prevailing 

 winds, parallel and intervening mountain ranges and the projection 

 of an arid Transito-Sonoran area, 200 miles wide and 100 long, 

 into the midst of the southern section of the Province. I am 

 nowise convinced that we are to look east or west for an annual 

 supply of those birds assigned to so-called "eastern or western 

 races " which are found in out-of-the-way or unlooked-for localities 

 in British Columbia. On the contrary, it is probable they are the 

 native born product of similar isolated environments and, while of 

 the same ancestral stock, have become so isolated by changes in the 

 climate and topography of intervening territory. In other cases 

 they will be found, by a more thorough exploration of the country, 

 to be connected with the type habitat by narrow lines of distribu- 

 tion, projecting south and west from Alaska and Great Slave Lake 

 and east and west through the low passes of the Cascades and 

 Northern Rockies. Such aspects of distribution have little to do 

 with the mere annual north and south movement which we call 

 migration ; evolution of environment and evolution in accord with 

 environment are the responsible factors. These have made possible 

 the occurrence of Spizella socialis on Vancouver Island and of Bubo 

 virginianus saturatus in Labrador, each represented over a vast 

 intervening territory by a distinct race. The migration of eastern 

 forms resident in southern British Columbia is undoubtedly over an 

 independent Great Basin route and not, as Mr. Chapman surmises, 

 along the western edge of the Great Plains. 



To Edwards Bros, of Tacoma, Messrs Fannin, Maynard and 

 Lindley of Victoria, the Messrs McKinley of Lac La Hache, and Mr. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29 



Pound of Vernon, British Columbia, my sincere thanks are due for 

 professional and friendly courtesies received. Also to Messrs 

 R. Ridgway of the Smithsonian Institution, and J. A. Allen of 

 the American Museum of Natural History of New York, for loan of 

 material for the identification of specimens, and to Mr. Witmer Stone 

 of Philadelphia, for the care of the collections during my absence, and 

 aid in their identification. I wish further to particularly acknowl- 

 edge the kindly loan of 200 specimens collected by my companions, 

 Messrs G. S. Morris and J. W. Evans, during our sojourn together 

 in Washington and Vancouver Island. 



The collection, from which the following list, for the most part, is 

 compiled, numbers 1300 specimens. An asterisk precedes the name 

 of species not represented in the collection. Unless otherwise speci- 

 fied, the annotations refer to the status of the species in both 

 Washington and British Columbia. A list, giving the number of each 

 sj^ecies in the collection and locality of capture, will be found at 

 the end of the paper. 



•1. ^chmophorus occidentalis. Western (irebe. 



Shores of Puget Sound and Vancouver Island in April and May, 

 Lac La Hache, July. Abundant resident in British Columbia. 



*2. Colymbus holboellii. Ilolboell's (irebe. 



Nisqually in April. Tolerably abundant on lakes of British 

 Columbia interior in summer. 



3. Colymbus auritus. Horned Grebe. 



Nisqually in April. Breeds on interior lakes as far south as 

 Ashcroft. 



4. Podilymbus podiceps. Pied-billed Grebe. 



Breeds on Vancouver Island and throughout mainland of British 

 Columbia. 



5. TJrinator imber. Loon. 



An abundant resident everywhere. 



6. TJrinator arcticus, Black-throated Loon. 



A female was secured at Nisqually and others noted there during 

 early April. 

 '7. *Urinator paciflcus. Pacific Loon. 



Two mounted specimens from near Taconia are in the collection 

 of Edwards Bros., of that city. 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



*8. Urinator lumme. Red-throated Loon. 



Specimens examined were from the coast as far soutli as Tacoma. 

 None met with inland. 

 *9. Lunda cirrhata. Tufted Puffin, 



Abundant on coast and Islands of Straits of Fuca and Gulf of 

 Georgia. Not noted on Puget Sound. 

 *10. Ptychoramphus aleuticus. Cassin's Auklet. 



Specimens from Puget Sound in Edwards Bros, collection. 

 *11. Simorhynchus pusillus (?). Least Auklet. 



A straggler on Puget Sound — Ed wards Bros.^ 



12. Synthliboramphus antiquus. Ancient Murrelet. 



A specimen from the northwest coast of Vancouver Island, taken 

 by W. S. Lindley, is in the collection. 



13, Brachyramphus marmoratus. Marbled Murrelet. 

 Abundant resident on Puget Sound and Gulf of Georgia. 



*14. Cepphus columba. Pigeon (Tuillemot. 



Abundant. Same distribution as last. 

 *15. Uria troile californipa. California Mune. 



A pair seen on Puget Sound near Nisqually. 



16. Larus glaucescens. Glaucous-winged Gull, 

 Abound in the Sound and sea-coast harbors. 



17. Larus occidentalis. Western Gull. 

 Associates abundantly with preceding. 



-••18. Larus argentatus smithsonianus. American Herring Gull. 

 Less abundant than preceding species. 



19. Larus californicus. California Gull. 



jNIore abundant than L. a. smithsonianus. 



20. Larus delawarensis. Ring-billed Gull. 



Abundantly associating with next species in all sea-coast harbors 

 and inlets. 



21. Larus brachyrhynchus. .-^hort-billed Gull. 

 The most abundant of the Pacific Larida'. 



22. Larus Philadelphia. Bonaparte's Gull. 



Migrating and feeding in dense flocks over sea-coast harbors and 

 river mouths the latter part of April. Breed about interior lakes 

 and rivers of British Columbia. 



lAuk, Januaiy, 1893. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31 



»23. Sterna — T 



Two Terns were seen on the Columbia River, at the head of 

 upper Arrow Lake, in August. At first they resembled Larusphil- 

 adelphia, but a nearer approach showed them to be Terns, probably 

 Sterna paraducea. 



•24. Phalacrocorax dilophus cinoinatus. White-crested Cormorant. 

 *25. Phalacrocorax pelagicus robustus. Violet-green Cormorant. 



Edw^ards Bros, have secured both species on Puget Sound. I 

 have seen one, if not both, on the coast of Vancouver Island. 



■26. Pelecanus erythrorhynchos. American AVhite Pelican. 



Occasional as far north as Stewart's Lake and Peace River, Brit- 

 ish Columbia, according to Mr. G. Hamilton, an ex-Factor of Fort 

 James. I was told by the McKinley Bros, that " white pelicans " 

 were formerly numerous " in the migrations " at La Hache, Williams 

 and Quesnel Lakes. I saw a fine male in the shop of Mr. Pound, 

 at Vernon, which was shot this spring on Okanagan Lake. From 

 accounts, its distribution in British Columbia, once general, is 

 yearly becoming restricted to the southern districts. Puget Sound, 

 Edwards Bros. 



"■27. Pelecanus californicus. California Brown Pelican. 



This species has been seen by Mr. Hamilton on La Hache and 

 Williams Lakes in company with the preceding. Mr. J. F. Brown, 

 of Empire Valley, has noted them in the Chilcotin district, British 

 Columbia. I did not meet with either species. Tacoma, Edwards 

 Bros. 



28. Merganser americanus. American Merganser. 



29. Merganser serrator. Red-breasted Merganser. 



On the coast there was little difference in the abundance of these 

 resident species. Americanus was rare in the interior, where both 

 were breeding. 



''30 Lophodytes cucullatus. Hooded Mergan.-er. 



Evenly distributed everywhere, but nowhere abundant. 

 *31. Anas boschas. Mallard. 



Mallards were abundant and resident in every locality below 

 4,000 feet elevation. 

 *32. Anas strepera. (iadwall. 



Rare. Specimens from Puget Sound in Edwards Bros, collec- 

 tion. 




32 PROCEEDINUS OK Tll|.; ACADKMY OK [1893. 



33. Alias americann. l>iilil|i;ito. 



\'ery jibuiulant on PaciHc* Coast ami Paget Sound in spring. 

 Hivedinu' in the iiitoi-ioi- lako districts. Aslioroft, Clinton, T>ac La 

 Iladu'. 



34. Anas oarolineiisis. (iici'n-wiiif; 'I'oal. 



Assonihlini:- in inoredible numbers on the Hats of Nisqually 

 River. Kosortiuii- with others to the interior in summer. 



35. Anas discors. I'luc wins; Teal. 



Mr. Fannin calls this a " very rare bird " in British Columbia. I 

 found it breeding about several of the small lakes in the vicinity of 

 Tjac La Hache. A nuile, female and three young were secured. 



36. Anas cyauopteia. ('imiiimoii 'I'omI. 



To Mr. I'^annin's two records of this species I can add several. 

 Ill the smaller, more retired, woodlaml lakes along the Cariboo 

 Road above Clinton, I frequently Unshed the Cinnamon Teal. 

 Only one specimen was secured. ^Ir. I). ^LcKinley, Lac La Hache, 

 says the " red teal " breeds sparingly in that neighborhood every 

 year. 



37. Spatula clypeata. Shoveller. 



Numerous on Puget Sound in s|)ring. A few found breeding 

 along the Cariboo Road. 



38. Dafila acuta, rintail. 



Abundant in all coast waters during migrations; breeding 

 throughout the interior. 

 *39. Aix sponsa. Woinl IMu-K. 



Karely met with. Pugel Simnd specimens in Ivlwards Pros, 

 museum. 



40. Aythya americana. lUvI lu-ml. 



Reported as a rare duck in the vicinity of Tacoma, by Edwards 

 Bros. A few were found breeding with .1. ralli!<iieria about an 

 alkali lake luar Lac La Hache. 



41. Aythya vallisneria. Cnnv;!* bsiok. 



Sparingly distributed over the entire country and summering on 

 the more inaccessible lakes of the northern interior. 



'42. Aythya inarila nearotica. .Xiuoiioini Soiinp Duok. 



Plentifully distributed. .\ snmiuer resident east of Cascades in 

 all parts visited. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCKS OK I'HILAIJKI.I'HI A. 38 



'43. Aythya affinis. Lesser Scaup Duck. 



Kiirc. A specimen iu Edwards Bros, collection and one in the 

 Briti.sh Columbia Museum, at Victoria, belong to this species. 



44. Glaucionetta clangula americana. Aiueiican Golden Kye. 



Several seen at Ni^^qually. In the interior an abundant summer 

 resident. They occasionally nest on the ground. 



45. Glaucionetta islandica. Harrow's Golden Eye. 



Two specimens collected on Puget Sound by Jos. Edwards, who 

 pronounces them to be rare. In the eastern Cascade region they 

 asssociate and breed with G. clangula amerienna in the proportion 

 of one to three. 



46. Charitonetta albeola. liufHe Head. 



Same distribution as Glaucionetta clangula americana. 

 *47. Clangula hyemalis. Old Squaw. 



A few seen on the Vancouver Island coast. Puget Sound ; 

 Edwards Bros. 



*48. Histrionicus histrionicus. Harleiiuin I>uck. 



Rare in Puget Sound, P^dwards 15ros. Rare at Lac La Hache, 

 Duncan McKinley. 



49. Oidemia amerioaua. American Scoter. 



A few noted at Nisqually among flocks of 0. deglandi. 



*.50. Oidemia deglandi. White-winged Scoter. 



j\[ost abundant of the genus, both on the coast and mainland 

 interior. I am convinced it breeds as far south as 150-Mile House, 

 Cariboo Road, individuals being .seen at Lac I>a Hache July 4. 



*51. Oidemia perspicillata. Surf Scoter. 



Fairly abundant on coast sounds and harbors during my stay. 

 "'52. Erismatura rubida. Kuddy Duck. 



Sparingly represented on the interior lakes during sunnner. 

 Not met with on coast. Puget Sound, I{!dwards Bros. 



■••53. Anser albifrons gambeli. American White-fronte<l (ioose. 



A few seen at Nisqually are referable to this species. Tacoma, 

 Edwards Bros. It is not probable that they breed on Puget Sound. 

 54. Branta canadensis. Canada Goose. 



In flocks on the mud flats of Puget Sound during April. Accord- 

 ing to the McKinleys it breeds about the mainland lakes and is dis- 

 tinguished from smaller races by the name of " Honker." One 




34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



specimen shot at Nisqually is referable to this species, but resembles 

 occidentalls in color of lower parts. 



55. Branta canadensis hutchinsii. Hutchin's Goose. 



66. Branta canadensis occidentalls. White-cheeked Goose. 



*57. Branta canadensis minima. Cackling Goose. 



Intergrades connect any series of Washington birds of this group 

 so completely that it is impossible to class every individual by its 

 size or coloration. Three specimens obtained from the same 

 flock may be severally referred to Imtehinsii and occidentalis, one 

 of them being intermediate between Imtehinsii and occidentalls and 

 another between huichinsii and minima. All the Canada geese 

 obtained on my trip were secured at Nisqually in April and were 

 migrants. If Mr. Fannin's statements are based on authentic 

 records and on specimens taken in the proper season, canadensis and 

 hutchinsii breed in the same localities on the mainland, a state of 

 affairs unknown east of the Rockies and inconsistent with their 

 classification as it now stands in the books. The bulk of Pacific 

 coast skins examined present a most puzzling constancy in their inter- 

 mediate size coupled with an inconstancy of coloration which makes 

 their classification by the most adjustable formula of little value. 



The faunal position of Puget Sound and the Gulf of Georgia 

 makes them the winter resort not only of canadensis but of all its 

 three ofishoots, thus presenting an array of combinations in winter 

 which the magic wand of migration alone can classify. Until we 

 follow and secure them on their breeding grounds the true relation- 

 ships of the Branta canadensis group in British Columbia will 

 remain a mystery. Bat it is probable it will resolve itself at that sea- 

 son into a case of parallel intergradation, occidentalis east of the 

 Cascades insensibly diminishing into minima, and west of the Cas- 

 cades, canadensis merging into hutchinsii, as they severally approach 

 the Arctic Circle. 



*58. Branta nigricans. Black Brant. 



Numerous on the larger bodies of salt water during March and 

 April. 



•■59. Olor columbianus. Whistling Swan. 



Puget Sound, Edwards Bros. ; Vancouver Island, W. Lindley ; 

 Vernon, W. C. Pound ; La Hache and Williams Lakes (breeds), 

 G. Hamilton. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35 



*60. Olor buccinator. - Trumpeter Swan. 



Six Trumpeters were seen at Nisqually. They migrate along the 

 Columbia and visit Lac La Hache in fall. 



*61. Botaurus lentiginosus. American Bittern. 



Noted only in the interior of British Columbia where it breeds. 



62. Ardea herodias. Great Blue Heron. 



Abounds on the coast. Contrary to Mr. Fannin's experience, I 

 was struck by the total absence of this heron from the interior, none 

 being seen or heard of An old male from Nisqually is darker on 

 sides of neck than any other examples examined. Mr. Chapman 

 informs me that it is possible, from imperfect specimens sent to the 

 American Museum of Natural History from the Queen Charlotte 

 Islands, that a darker race inhabits the region of maximum rainfall 

 on the Pacific coast. Specimens in the Victoria Museum, from 

 Vancouver Island, neither strengthen nor disprove this theory. 



-■■■63. Grus canadensis. Little Brown Crane. 



Passing in flocks along the shores of Puget Sound with the next 

 species. Heard of, but not seen, in the interior of British Columbia. 

 *64. Grus mexicana. Sandhill Crane. 



Breeding in isolated pairs through the lake region of British 

 Columbia. Young found in early July. 



•■65. Rallus virginianus. Virginia Rail. 



Tacoma, Edwards Bros. ; Victoria, A. J. Maynard. 

 66. Porzana Carolina. Sora. 



Breeding commonly throughout British Columbia. Not seen in 

 Washington. 



*67. Fulica americana. American Coot. 



Oftener heard than seen about the lakes of coast and interior, 

 where they breed. 

 68. Crymophilus fulicarius. Kyil Phalarope. 



None seen. A female in the collection was taken by Mr. Lindley 

 near Victoria. 

 *69. Gallinago delicata. Wilson's Snipe. 



Abundant in spring along the coast. Breeds sparingly in the 

 east Cascade region. 

 *70. Macrorhamphus scolopaceus. Long-billed Dowitcher. 



A few seen among flocks of Tringas at Nisqually. 




36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



*71. Tringa canutus. Knot. 



Sparingly, associated with preceding during spring migration 

 along the coast. 



72. Tringa minutilla. Least Sandpiper. 



Six seen and two shot at Nelson. Breed sparingly by the lakes 

 of Okanagan Valley and Rocky Mountain districts. Migrant on 

 coast of Washington and Vancouver Island. 



73. Tringa alpina pacifica. Red-backed Sandpiper. 



Abundant about coast waters in spring. None seen during 

 breeding season. 



74. Ereunetes occidentalis. AVestern Sandpiper. 



Common on coast in spring and breeding in suitable parts of the 

 interior. Two male specimens from Tacoma and Victoria are 

 smaller than the minimum measurements assigned by Mr. Ridgway 

 to occidentalis but their bills exceed the average for j:)».«i/^us. Color- 

 ation in all is that of occidentalis. Perhaps, if Mr. Chapman's 

 specimen of " pusilhts," taken at Ducks, British Columbia, shows 

 rusty tinge of upper parts it may be considered a dwarf example 

 of the western species. 



75. Totanus melanoleucus. Greater Yellow Legs. 



Found along coast during migrations. Breeding about inland 

 lakes as far south as Clinton. At this season both sexes stand sen- 

 tinel on the tops of trees in the vicinity of the nest, rarely alighting 

 on the ground during the presence of an intruder. The newly 

 fledged young often follow the example of their parents in this 

 respect. From this elevated position the male keeps up an inces- 

 sant clamor throughout the day. One series of notes, uttered only 

 during periods of fancied security, is peculiar and unquestionably 

 a love song. 



'=76. Totanus flavipes. Yellow Legs. 



One seen (?) at Nisqually. Specimen seen in central British Col- 

 umbia. 



77. Actitis macularia. Spotted Sandpiper. 



Two seen on the shores of Puget Sound. Rare at Tacoma. 

 Fairly abundant about all interior lakes. 



78. Numenius longirostris. Long-billed Curlew. 



Seen at Victoria and Lulu Island in May. Breeding at Lac La 

 Hache and Vernon. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 37 



*79. Numenius hudsonicus. Hudsonian Curlew, 



Several were noted on Tacoma flats and one near Victoria. 

 Specimens in collection of Edwards Bros. 



80. Charadrius dominicus fulvus. Pacific tiolden Plover. 



A male, shot in winter at Victoria by Mr. Lindley, may be pro- 

 visionally referred to this subspecies. Mr. Fannin does not recog- 

 nize the existence of it in his list. Until more material is secured 

 it remains an open question whether Julvns migrates along the 

 Pacific coast of America. 



81. Aegialitis vocifera. KiMeer. 



Heard migrating on the coast, where it is considered rare by 

 Edwards Bros. Breeds sparingly about inland lakes as far as 53°. 

 Nowhere abundant. 



*82. Arenaria interpres. Turnstone. 



Puget Sound, Edwards Bros. None seen alive. 



*83- Haematopus bachmani. Black Oyster Catcher. 



Islands of Gulf of Georgia. Puget Sound, Edwards Bros. 



■84. Oreortyx pictus. Mountain I'urtridge. 



A few seen at Nisqually. Tacoma, Edwards Bros. The vicinity 

 of Puget Sound at present is debatable ground between the intro- 

 duced and indigenous birds of this species. The northern limit of 

 Oreortyx pictus in Washington, prior to the introduction of Cali- 

 fornia and Oregon birds probably reached the southern shores of 

 Puget Sound. At present they reside in suitable places over east- 

 ern Washington, southern Vancouver Island and the southern Cas- 

 cade region of British Columbia. 



85. Callipepla californica. California Partridge. 



86. Callipepla californica vallicola. Valley Partridge. 



A male, taken at Nisqually, is a nearly typical vallicola. Three 

 males from Vancouver Island are intermediate between californica 

 and vallicola, but agree more nearly with the latter. So complete 

 has been the admixture of native with introduced birds of both 

 forms from California that typical exam})les of either are a rarity. 

 One, if not both, is indigenous to the coast and interior valleys of cer- 

 tain parts of Washington, but to what extent it will now be impos- 

 sible to determine. In common with the preceding species and two 

 species of Asiatic Pheasant, both California and Valley Quail have 




38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



become naturalized and abundant throughout the settled parts of 

 Vancouver Island. 



87. Dendragapus obscurus faliginosus. Sooty Clrouse. 



Abundant everywhere and at all elevations west of the Cascades. 

 This form reappears on the higher areas of increased rainfall 

 between the Rocky Mountains and Cascades in British Columbia. 



88. Dendragapus obscurus riohardsonii. Richardson's Grouse. 

 Everywhere throughout the interior of British Columbia. A 



complete series of this race from all parts of British Columbia com- 

 pared with a like series of fuliginosns will be likely to present cer- 

 tain facts of distribution and differentiation quite at variance with 

 our present view of the subject. 



89. Dendragapus franklinii. Franklin's Grouse. 



Numerous on the slopes and summits of the higher mountains of 

 the mainland to and including the Cascades and Rockies. On the 

 Cascades as far south as Nachess Pass, Washington. 



90. Bonasa umbellus togata. Canadian RuflFed Grouse. 



91. Bonasa umbellus sabini. Oregon RuflFed Grouse. 



Specimens from districts between Cascade and Rocky Mountains 

 in British Columbia are pretty uniformly colored, one male alone 

 showing red phase of sabini. Intermediates nearly connect the grayest 

 coast specimens of sabini with darkest examples of togata from the 

 interior. A male sabini from Lulu Island has a nearly typical 

 togata tail. I find no eastern specimens in the Academy's collection 

 comparable in grayness with any from British Columbia or Wash- 

 ington. 



*92. Bonasa umbellus umbelloides. Gray Ruflfed Grouse. 



Of the Ruffed Grouse found in the Rocky Mountains at Field I 

 failed to secure specimens. Mr. Fannin classes them a.s umbelloide''. 



93. Lagopus rupestris. Rook Ptarmigan. 



Summits of Cascades, Clinton, Lac La Hache ; also on summits 

 of Rocky Mountains, Field, Hector, Ottertail. Abundant, descend- 

 ing to 4,000 feet in winter. 



*94. Lagopus leucurus. White-tailed Ptarmigan. 



Residents inform me this species is also found sparingly in winter 

 in Kicking Horse Pass, British Columbia. One obtained at Hector 

 examined. Reported from Soues Mountain, Clinton, by Mr. Jos. 

 Smith, also from Mount Tacoma, Washington ; Edwards Bros. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39 



95. Pediocaetes phasianellus columbianus. Columbian Sharp-tailed Grouse. 

 AbouudiDg in central British Columbia. This Grouse is not 



essentially a plain-haunting bird. I found them frequent on the 

 densely wooded plateau extending from Clinton to 108-Mile House, 

 Cariboo Road in country 5,000 feet above the sea level. 



96. Columba fasciata. Band-tail Pigeon. 



Found at Tacoma, Vancouver Island and Lulu Island. Not met 

 with elsewhere nor reported from east of Cascades. 



97. Zenaidura macroura. Mourning Dove. 



Sparingly represented in interior of British Columbia as far 

 north as Clinton. 

 •'98. Pseudogryphus californianus. California Vulture. 



Seen on Lulu Island as late as " three or four years ago " by Mr. 

 W. London. " None seen since, used to be common." 



*99. Cathartes aura. Turkey Vulture. 



Numerous on Puget Sound. In greatly diminished numbers over 

 the whole Province of British Columbia as far north as Lac La 

 Hache. 



100. Circus hudsonius. Marsh Hawk. 



Noted at every stopping place. Nowhere abundant. 



101. Accipiter velox. Sharp-shinned Hawk. 



Cosmpolitan but not abundant. 



102. Acciptier cooperi. Cooper's Hawk. 



Distribution general. Breeding at Lac La Hache. Rocky Moun- 

 tains, 7,000 feet. Rare. 

 *103. Accipiter atricapillus. American Goshawk. 



Seen only at Vernon. 

 *104. Buteo borealis calurus. Western Red Tail. 



Distribution and abundance like that of the eastern form. Breed- 

 ing near the summits of Rockies at Field. 

 *105. Buteo lineatus elegans. Red-bellied Hawk. 



Hawks, presumably of this species, were thrice seen in the Brit- 

 ish Columbia interior. 

 106. Buteo swainsoni, Swainson's Hawk. 



Breeds in the arid, mountainous interior. In July I found them 

 abundant on the higher unwooded elevations at the head of Okana- 

 gan Lake near Vernon. One evening they congregated about the 




40 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



summit of a rocky eminence, 3,000 feet above the lake, to the num- 

 ber of three or four hundred, every large boulder seating one or 

 more birds, and many others sitting contentedly on the flat ground. 

 Xinety per cent of those which flew near me were in the dark phases 

 of plumage, some of them appearing uniformly black as they swept 

 past. Three females secured had the crop stufied exclusively with 

 grasshoppers. 

 107. Archibuteo lagopus sancti-johannis. American Rough-legged Hawk. 



One seen at Vernon, and a specimen seen at the same place in the 

 collection of Mr. Pound. Another, shot on Vancouver Island, is in 

 the possession of Mr. Lindley, of Victoria. Considered a very rare 

 bird on the Pacific Coast. 



*108. Aquila chrysaetos. Golden Eagle. 



Seen two or three times in the interior mountains. As rare in 

 British Columbia as on the Atlantic seaboard. 



*109. Haliaeetus leucocephalus. Bald Eagle. 



As omnipresent in British Columbia and Washington as the lakes 

 and streams. 



*110. Falco peregrinus anatum. Duck Hawk. 



Rare. I refer two specimens seen east of the Cascades to this 

 species. They reach the Pacific. 

 *111. Falco peregrinus pealei. Peale's Falcon. 



^Mounted specimens seen in the shop of Mr, Inglis, of Vancouver, 

 British Columbia. Duck Hawks of both (?) races were seen at 

 Ni.squally. 



112. Falco columbarius. Pigeon Hawk. 



A mated pair shot at Lac La Hache. 



113. Falco columbarius suckleyi. Black Merlin. 



Examples seen on the coast should be classed under this name, 

 though Mr. Fannin has found both west of the Cascades. A speci- 

 men from Victoria is in the collection. 



114. Falco richardsonii. Richardson's Merlin. 



One shot at the head of Okanagan Lake. 



115. Falco sparverius. American Sparrow Hawk. 



Everywhere the most abundant Raptore. 

 *116. Pandion haliaetus carolinensis. American Osprey. 



Wherever fish abound in the northwest these fishermen have 

 "preempted the claim." 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41 



*117. Asio wilsonfanus. Long-eared Owl. 



Rare everywhere, but likely to turn up anywhere in Washington 

 or British Cohimbia. Tacoma, Edwards Bros. 

 118. Asio accipitrinus. Short-eared Owl. 



Vancouver and Luhi Islands ; at Nisqually and about the lakes 

 of the interior. 

 *119. Syrnium occidentale. Spotted Owl. 



A specimen taken near Tacoma by Edwards Bros, is in the col- 

 lection. Others have been seen and taken in that vicinity. 



*120. Scotiaptex cinerea. Great (iray Owl. 



One shot near Vernon was mounted by Mr. Pound last year. 



121. Nyctala acadica. Saw-whet Owl. 



An immature male taken at Vernon in July. Specimens 

 mounted in the collections of gentlemen at Victoria, Vancouver 

 and Tacoma. 



122. Megascops asio kennicottii. Kennicott's Owl. 



I obtained a male from Mr. Lindley, of A'ictoria. This Owl 

 entirely escaped notice during my trip. 



123. Bubo virginianus. Great Horned Owl. 



124. Bubo virginianus subarcticus. AVestern Horned Owl. 

 *125. Bubo virginianus arcticus . Arctic Horned Owl. 

 126. Bubo virginianus saturatus. Dusky Horned Owl. 



A discussion of the Horned Owls of Washington and British 

 Columbia will be found in the article in the Auk already referred 

 to. It is probable that all the races of Bubo virginianus are to be 

 found in British Columbia. 

 *127. Surnia ulula caparoch. Hawk Owl. 



Vancouver Island, W. F. Lindley. Vernon, W. C. Pound. 

 *128. Speotyto cunicularia hypogaea. Burrowing Owl. 



A special trip was made in the vicinity of Kamloops and Ash- 

 croft for this species, but no trace remained of the colonies once 

 existing there. The last pair known to remain in that locality 

 lived in a badger's burrow on the bank of Thompson River, near 

 the ferryman's house. None have been seen at Kamloops or Ash- 

 croft since 1890. 

 129. Glaucidium gnoma. Pygmy Owl. 



Interior British Columbia birds secured at Vernon are true 

 gnoma. ]\Ir. Pound says they winter there. 




42 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



130. Glaucidium gnoma califomicum. California Pygmy Owl. 

 Numerous w(;st of Cascades. 



131. Ceryle alcyon. Kingfisher. 



Cosmopolitan and re.sideut on the coast all winter. 



132. Dryobates villosus leucomelas. Northern Hairy Woodpecker. 



In a series of eight skins, one, a young female, lacks the white 

 spotting on wing coverts characteristic of leucomelas. It is also 

 much smaller than the rest, whose measurements correspond to those 

 given by Mr. Ridgway for leucomelas. 



133. Dryobates villosus harrisii. Harris's AVooilpecker. 



Three, of nine specimens, have unspotted wing coverts, the rest 

 are spotted in varying degrees but less so than darkest examples of 

 villosus. An adult male from Nisqually, with unspotted wing cov- 

 erts, lacks the sooty suffusion of under parts in a remarkable 

 degree. 



134. Dryobates pubescens oreoecus. Batchelder's Woodpecker. 



Mr. Fannin includes D. pubescens as a "common resident east of 

 and including Cascades," a statement which my series of twenty- 

 one specimens fails to prove. Four interior specimens contained in 

 the Streator collection are classed as intermediates between pubes- 

 cens and oreoecus. On examination I find that these agree with 

 mine in the lack of distinct markings of lower tail coverts, one of 

 these and six of the others showing traces of streaks on that part. 

 In lack of white markings of wing coverts and secondaries the 

 majority of the series agree with oreoeeu^, six being intermediate 

 between that race and pubescens. 



*135. Xenopious albolarvatus. White-headed Woodppcker. 



This bird has a claim to notice in this paper, solely on evidence 

 of woodsmen at Vernon, who assert they sometimes see a " little 

 white-headed sapsucker " in the forests at the head of Lake Okana- 

 gan. The striking difference between this and any other species of 

 Woodpecker makes this testimony worth notice. 



136. Sphyrapicus varius nuchalis. Red-naped Sapsucker. 



Generally distributed and breeding throughout the interior. Did 

 not see it in Washington nor on the British Columbia coast. 



137. Sphyrapicus ruber. Red-breasted Sapsucker. 



A male, shot near Tacoma was the only one seen. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. .43 



138. Ceophloeus pileatus. Pileated Woodpecker. 



Found in comparative abundance everywhere. 



139. Melanerpes torquatus. Lewis' Woodpecker. 



East of Cascades only. Rare in some localities, in others abun- 

 dant. 



"■140. Colaptes auratus. Flicker. 



Two specimens in the Victoria Museum appear to be unmixed 

 miratus. I neither saw nor heard of pure auratus in the interior of 

 British Columbia nor in Washington. 



141. Colaptes cafer. Red-shafted Flicker. 



142. Colaptes cafer saturatior. Northwest Flicker. 



While cafer- seems to be exclusively an eastern Cascade species, 

 saturatior cannot be said to confine itself to the coast, examples from 

 local areas of great rainfall in the interior being indistinguishable 

 from ordinary Vancouver Island specimens. Hybrids between 

 these forms and auratus are exceptionally abundant in the north- 

 west and have been made the subject of a special paper in Science, 

 Vol. XX, No. 514, to which the reader is referred. 



143. Chordeiles virginianus. Nighthawk. 

 Abundant in all interior localities. 



144. Chordeiles virginianus henryi. Western Nighthawk. 



Had not arrived on coast during my stay. Tacoma, Edwards 

 Bros. 



145. Cypseloides niger. Black Swift. 



First seen at Lulu Island, May 25th, and more seen on the 26th, 

 migrating leisurely. Frequently seen in great flocks on the Thomp- 

 son and over the lakes near Ashcroft. On the 7th of June my 

 notes report " 2,000 hovering low about a small lake," the only 

 chance I had to secure specimens. They remained there all that 

 day but were gone the next day. Occasional flocks appeared at 

 Clinton, Lac La Hache, Ashcroft and Kamloops until June 12th. 

 They were again seen at Vernon, June 22nd. At no time did they 

 appear singly or in detached pairs. 



The mystery of their nidification I was unable to solve, as they 

 appeared on all occasions to be gregarious and nomadic, rarely 

 remaining two days in the same place. None were seen on the 

 mountains during ascent, but they frequently disappeared among 

 them after a foray in the valley. At no time did they 




44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



display the arts indicative of the breeding period seen in other 

 birds, not a call note or other sign of recognition being detected 

 during my extended acquaintance with them. 



146. Chaetura vauxii. Vaux's Swift. 



Arrived April 11th, at Nisqually and May 18th at Goldstream, 

 where they were an abundant migrant, associating at times with C. 

 niger. Seen at Lac La Hache, July 1st. 



147. Selasphorus rufus. Tlufous Ilumming-birJ. 



Incredibly numerous on the coast during April migration ; nest- 

 ing at Nisqually while night frosts still lingered and mercury aver- 

 aged 45° to 50° during the day. Scarcely less common in many 

 parts of the interior districts and found on the summits of highest 

 mountains, including the Rockies. Xests with eggs nearly hatched 

 found April 18th. 



*148. Stellula calliope. Calliope Humming-bird. 



A few very small " hummers" frequenting the interior and south- 

 ern Rocky Mountain districts were probably S. calliope. 



149. Tyrannus tyrannus. Kingbird. 

 Abundant in the interior. 



150. Tyrannus verticalis. Arkansas Kingbird. 



Finds its northern limit a few miles south of Clinton. Ranges 

 west in the breeding season to the Selkirk Mountains. I did not 

 find it on the coast. 



151. Sayornis saya. Say's Flycatcher. 



Not common. Same distribution as preceding species. 



152. Contopus borealis. Olive-sided Flycatcher. 



Breeding at high altitudes in the east Cascade and Rocky Moun- 

 tain districts. 



153. Contopus richardsonii. Western Wood Pewee. 



Not abundant, but represented in all localities visited. 



154. Empidonax difficilis. Western Flycatcher. 



Mr. Streator says that this species, Avhile " common in the coast 

 region," is " more so in the interior." Not only is this disproved by 

 the specimens taken by him but by my own skins, all of which 

 came from west of the Cascades. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 45 



155. Empidonax pusillus. Little Flycatcher. 



156. Empidonax pusillus traillii. Traill's Flycatcher. 



The relationships of these forms in British Columbia are confus- 

 ing, apparently reversing the relative distribution of eastern and 

 Avestern as it obtains farther south. Six specimens from Ashcroft, 

 Vernon and Lac La Hache, a.re piisilhis ; one from Lac La Hache 

 is evidently traillii. Three from Lulu Island, slightly yellower 

 below and browner above than interior skins, appear to be traillii. 

 Three of Mr. Streator's birds are from tbe eastern and three from 

 the western Cascade regions, yet all appear to be traillii with larger 

 bills, while all of mine from the same regions more nearly resemble 

 jmsillus. I incline to the theory that traillii ranges boreally 

 through northern, eastern and western British Columbia, centrally 

 receiving a slight admixture of pusillus through the intrusion of 

 the upper Sonoran element into the country around Ashcroft. 



157. Empidonax hammondi. Hammond's Flycatcher. 



Of uniform distribution over mainland and islands. Breeding 

 wherever found. 



158. Otoooris alpestris merrilli. Dusky-horned Lark. 

 Breeding in the highland valleys near Ashcroft. 



159. Pica pica hudsonica. American Magpie. 



Well scattered over the interior but nowhere so common as in 

 Okanagan ^"alley near Vernon. 



160. Cyanocitta stelleri. Steller's Jay. 



Found only on the coast and west Cascade slopes. Both Fannin 

 and Streator assert they are found in the interior, a statement dis- 

 proved by all the specimens secured. 



161. Cyanocitta stelleri annectens. Black-headed Jay. 



While many of the interior specimens are intermediate, all are 

 more referable to a)uiectens than stelleri. 



162. Perisoreus canadensis capitalis. Rocky Mountain Jay. 



I noted these Jays at Lac La Hache, Bonaparte, Vernon, Nelson 

 and Field. 



163. Perisoreus obscurus. Oregon Jay. 



One specimen was taken at Nisqually. They are not numerous 

 on Vancouver Island and may be said to be rare in summer on the 

 coast. Mr. Fannin seems to have confounded this species with P. 

 canadensis caintalis as a resident of the interior. I have no mate- 




46 PROCEEDUXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



rial to show how far obscnrns reaches eastward, nor just where the 

 western range of capitalis terminates. 



164. (T) Corvus corax sinuatus. American Raven. 



Ravens were abundant in the Cascades, rare in the Bonaparte 

 Valley, at Lac La Hache and at Vernon, but at Nelson became 

 abundant again. One specimen secured at the latter place 

 approaches more nearly to si7iuaiu-< than pi-incijjalis, the latter being 

 given by Mr. Fannin for British Columbia. 



165. Corvus americanus. ' v *i, » r. 



jiorthwest Crow. 

 Corvus caurinus. -• 



On the west coast crows are abundant. In the interior of British 

 Columbia they are found in diminished numbers. Their habits and 

 voices are essentially the same. In size they are extremely variable, 

 the smallest individuals being found on the shores of the Pacific, 

 the larger ones coming from the interior of British Columbia. 

 These are connected by an unbroken series of intergrades. In col- 

 oration they are also variable, many specimens of both large and 

 small birds differing but slightly from americanus of the east, but 

 the average of all British Columbia specimens is less glossy than 

 that of eastern birds, the reflections being confined chiefly to head, 

 neck and wing coverts, and often lacking on lower parts. Large 

 and small birds pair together, both east and west of the Cascades. 

 Average measurements of northwest crows, as compared with those 

 of birds from the Atlantic slope are decidedly less. These facts not 

 only confirm Baird's theory that caurinus is a "dwarfed race" of 

 americanus, but show that they, together with the larger crows of 

 the northwest, should be separated from Corvus americanus of the 

 east under the name Corvus americanu'< caurinus. A detailed dis- 

 cussion of the relationships of the birds in question, with tables of 

 comparative measurements, is contained in the Auk for January, 

 1893. 



166. Picicorvus columbianus. Clarke's Xuteracker. 



Extending from the summits of Cascades to the summits of 

 Rocky Mountains in summer. Rare at Clinton and Lac La Hache 

 but wintering wherever found. The Indians declare they breed in 

 February and again in July. 



167. Molothras ater. Cowbird. 



A young male was shot at Vernon. Mr. D. McKiuley reports 

 them as occasionally visiting the cattle corrals at Lac La Hache. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIKNCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 47 



'■168. Xanthooephalus xanthocephalus. Yellow-headed Blackbird. 



I saw a skin of this bird, shot at Vernon. Clinton ; J. Smith. 

 Lac La Hache, McKinley Bros. ; White Valley, Okanagan. Cas- 

 ually breeding in British Columbia. 



169. Agelaius phoeniceus. Red-wing Blackbird. 



Of very local occurrence. Found breeding at Victoria, Lulu 

 Island and Vernon. In a series of twenty-three Washington and 

 British Columbia skins no differences are apparent between these 

 and Atlantic coast specimens. 



170. Sturnella magna neglecta. Western Meadowlark. 



Very rare at Lac La Hache. In all other open situations abun- 

 dant, from Vancouver Island to the Rocky Mountain foothills. 



171. Icterus buUockii. Bullock's Oriole. 



Rare at Ashci'oft and disappearing midway between Ashcroft 

 and Clinton, on the Bonaparte River. More numerous at Kam- 

 loops and abundant around Swan Lake, at Vernon. 



172. Scolecophagus cyanocephalus. Brewers Blackbird. 



Breeding in suitable localities, both east and west of Cascades to 

 Vernon, in the south, and Lac La Hache in the north. 



173. Pinicola enucleator. Pine Grosbeak. 



East and west Cascade and Rocky Mountain regions of British 

 Columbia. Not common. 



174. Carpodacus purpureus californicus. California Purjile Fincb. 



Found breeding on the coast. 



••175. Carpodacus cassinii. Cassin"s Purple Finch. 



A few examples, probably of this species, were found breeding in 

 the interior. 



176. Loxia curvirostra minor. American Crossbill. 



Coextensive with coniferous forests at all elevations. East and 

 west of Cascades. 



177. Leucosticte tephrocotis. Gray-crowned Finch. 



A flock of these was seen on the Rocky Mountain summits near 

 Fiehl. 



178. Acanthis 1 Redpoll. 



A Redpoll secured by Mr. Lindley at ^'ictoria resembles lin- 

 aria but is larger and otherwise different. From my lack 

 of specimens of the other forms its identity remains questionable. 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



179. Spinus pinus. Pine Siskin. 



A very abundant resident iu all localities. 



180. Poocaetes gramineus. Vesper Sparrow. 



Numerous in all open situations between the Cascades and 

 Rockies as far north as Lac La Hache. The presence of birds 

 in the Ashcroft region, so nearly identical with Atlantic coast 

 specimens, is at variance with the prevailing tendency of west- 

 ern forms to supplant the Boreal in that locality. 

 *181. (?) Poocaetes gramineus confinis. Western Vesper Sparrow. 



I wounded a singing male Vesper Sparrow near Victoria, but 

 it w^as lost. Fannin calls the coast Poocaetes, P. gramineus con- 

 finis. If it differs at all from P. (jramineus I am disposed to 

 think it will prove to be P. gramineus affinis. 



182. Ammodramus sandwichensis. Sandwich Sj)arrow. 



183. Ammodramus sandwichensis alaudinus. AVestern Savanna Sparrow. 



Mr. Chapman having kindly loaned me the entii*e series of 

 Ammodramus in the Streator collection, I am enabled, in connec- 

 tion with my own series, to trace the relations and distribution 

 of the two forms with some exactness. Sixty-five skins from 

 twenty localities in Washington and British Columbia, taken dur- 

 ing regular intervals from April to October inclusive, form the 

 basis of this examination. Alaudinus breeds in all localities in 

 Washington and British Columbia, from the Rocky Mountains 

 to the coast (including the islands), from sea level to an eleva- 

 tion of 5,000 feet. It probably winters sparingly on the south 

 shores of Puget Sound, and begins to breed there the second 

 week in April. In the interior it was not found nesting before 

 June 1st, laying probably the latter part of May. 



Intermediates referable to alaudinus were passing northward 

 in flocks on Vancouver Island after typical alaudinus had begun 

 to breed there. These connect so perfectly the two forms breed- 

 ing respectively in Alaska and southern British Columbia that it 

 is impossible to classify satisfactorily any but the extremes. It 

 is on this account, probably, that Mr. Fannin has included Van- 

 couver Island in the breeding range of sandwiehenxis. On the 

 contrary, typical sandwichensis have all passed Victoria by the 

 middle of May, leaving behind them typical alaudinus and a few 

 intermediates as summer residents. In the interior this iutergrad- 

 ing is scarcely noticeable, due, probably, to the absence of sand- 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 49 



wichensis as a migrant east of the Cascades. The proportion of 

 typical saudivichensls to alandhms during migrations on the coast 

 is as one in twenty, but if Ave include among the former the 

 largest intermediates the proportion would be one in ten. The 

 bulk of typical sandwichenms probably winter on the coast north 

 of Victoria, while the majority of the larger intermediates found 

 migrating at Victoria breed south of the o5th parallel. Many 

 intermediates closely resemble A. mndwichensu savanna. It is 

 probable one of these, taken in San Diego, California, by W. 

 O. Emerson, that Mr. Ridgway has wrongly identified as belong- 

 ing to the eastern race.^ 



*184. Chondestes grammacus strigatus. Western Lark S]iarrow. 



Seen only at Vernon, where two pairs of adult birds were feeding 

 their newly fledged young. This is the first authentic record of 

 Chondestes north of the United States boundary. 



*185. Zonotrichia querula. Harris Sparrow. 



A specimen of this unlooked-for species, shot by Mr. Maynard 

 near Victoria, was shown me by Mr. Fannin. As it has not, to 

 my knowledge, been put on record, I take the liberty of mention- 

 ing it here. It is not only the first record for British Columbia, 

 but the first capture of the species on the Pacific side of the Rocky 

 Mountains. It was shot early in April, 1891. 



186. Zonotricliia leucophrys intermedia. Intermediate Sparrow. 



During migrations this race is sparingly scattered as far west as 

 Vancouver Island, where I took two specimens. It becomes more 

 frequent on the western slope of the Cascades and in the interior I 

 found it breeding at higher latitudes and altitudes. 



187. Zonotrichia leucophrys gambeli. Gaiubel's Sparrow. 



A very abundant summer resident on the coasts of British Col- 

 umbia and Washington. 



188. Zonotrichia coronata. Golden-crowned Sparrow. 



In abundant flocks during our stay at Coldstream. I am inclined 

 to doubt Mr. Fannin's statement that they are resident on Van- 

 couver Island and would restrict their southern range in summer to 

 the Queen Charlotte Islands, 



' Zo3, April, 1890, p. 45. 




50 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



189. Spizella socialis. Chipping Sparrow. 



190. Spizella socialis arizonae. Western Chipping Sparrow. 



The Chipping Sparrows of British Columbia present color char- 

 acters analogous to those already given for Empidcniax pusillu.-< and 

 E. pusillus trailid. Measurements of six specimens from Victoria 

 coincide with those of average socialis. In color they are like soci- 

 alis, being darker on under parts than arizonce. In color of upper 

 parts many may be referred to either or both forms with equal pro- 

 priety. In fact, differences between breeding specimens, now before 

 me, of socialis and arizonae, from such widely remote points as Fort 

 Simpson, Philadelphia, California and central Mexico, are so slight 

 and inconstant as to make their separation of questionable import, 

 I would refer all British Columbia specimens collected by Mr. 

 Streator and myself, including those from the coast, to socialis, with 

 the exception, possibly,of six skins collected at Ashcroft, Avhich I 

 agree with Mr. Chapman in calling " intermediates." Average 

 measurements of the eastern and western forms as given by Mr. 

 Ridgway, with those of specimens from Ashcroft and Victoria, are 

 appended : 



191. Spizella breweri. Brewer's Sparrow. 



I was induced by the unusually sweet song of a " chipping spar- 

 row" in the pine-wood mountains above Ashcroft, to shoot it. It 

 proved the onl}-^ specimen of Brewer's Sparrow noted during the 

 trip. 



192. Junco hyemalis oregonus. Oregon Junco. 



193. (1) Junco hyemalis shufeldti. Rocky Mountain Juneo. 



After comparing my series of thirty Juncos from British Colum- 

 bia and Washington with Mr. Chapman^s lengthy discussion of the 

 Streator series, I cannot say that he has characterized any constant 

 differences between eastern and western Cascade forms. The extent 

 of black markings and intensity of color shows itself to be depend- 

 ent mainly on the make-up of the skin and the season in which it 

 was taken, and the white areas on the rectrices of my series show 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPAIA. 51 



decidedly that this character has no diagnostic value whatever. 

 How Mr. Coale's type of slnifeldti can be, as Mr. Chapman says, 

 "intermediate" between coast and interior birds from British Col- 

 umbia I cannot conceive. It is highly probable that the Juncos of 

 western North America are as susceptible to local diflfereuces of 

 environment occurring throughout their extensive breeding range as 

 any other genus in the country and that a recurrence of any form 

 is liable to happen at any isolated point where physical conditions 

 are duplicated. A thorough overhauling of the group on this prin- 

 ciple may yet rescue it from the sacrilegious hands of the species 

 hunter and synonymist. I think it is safe to say that birds indistin- 

 guishable from oregonus breed on the better-watered mountains of 

 interior British Columbia. The only approach to " shufeldti" (sic) 

 is found in birds from the most arid lowlands and most eastern 

 Rockies, but their diflerences are too slight and fortuitous to war- 

 rant a distinction. 



194. Melospiza fasciata guttata. Rusty Song Sparrow. 



Specimens collected during the breeding season show that Melo- 

 spiza fasciata rujjna is not present on the southern coasts of British 

 Columbia at that time. The distribution of gnttala in Washington 

 and British Columbia is singularly uniform in all kinds of localities, 

 no difterence between coast and interior individuals being apparent. 



Melbspiza hncolni striata. ) 



■ Lincoln's Finch. 



195. Melospiza lincolni, ] 



As given in my notice of this species in the Auk, further mate- 

 rial from the type district of striata shows that the characters 

 assigned to that race are too slight and variable to distinguish it 

 from lincolni. Since the paper referred to went to press I have 

 received Mr. Brewster's series of striata but see no reason to alter 

 my previous statements regarding that race. 



196. Passerella iliaca unalaschensis. Townsend's Sparrow. 



197. Passerella iliaca schistacea. Slate-colored Sparrow. 



Fifty-two skins of unalaschensis, including the Smithsonian Insti. 

 tution series and those collected by Mr. Streator, present the sub- 

 joined facts. Starting in the Rocky Mountains, we have first a light 

 gray specimen of typical schistacea from Nelson ; going west we find 

 another slightly darker and another of the same shade with slightly 

 larger bill which Mr. Chapman labels "sub-sp. nov.," both of which 

 a.re sch istacea intermediates. From the west Cascades, British Col- 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



umbia, AVestern Oregon and Washington we find average unalasch- 

 enxis. Two winter specimens from Vancouver Island show the 

 extreme of the melauistic coast tendency, being nearly black and 

 very dark specimens from Kalama, Washington and Humboldt 

 Bay, California, show the direction and extent of the migration of 

 this phase along the coast. Alaska specimens are lighter, three 

 from Koniuski Island being nearly as light above as schistacea, so 

 that extremes of dark and light from south and north, respectively, 

 appear like distinct species, but they are connected by a perfect 

 intergradation. Winter specimens of schistacea all come from Cali- 

 fornia, while all Oregon specimens are winter unalaschen-ns. Brit- 

 ish Columbia thus forms common ground for unalaschensis and schis- 

 tacea, the Cascades being the habitat of intermediates in the breed- 

 ing season. Unalaschensix breeds on Vancouver Island and north- 

 ward. While unalaschensis from north Alaska is nearly as light 

 as schistacea, there is a marked difference between the two, the for- 

 mer retaining the brown shade above as contrasted with the ashy 

 cast of upper parts in the latter. 



198. Pipilo muculatus megalonyx. Spui red Towhee. 



Abundantly haunting the woodlands of the interior in all locali- 

 ties visited, uj) to 4,000 feet. 



199. Pipilo maculatus oregonus. Oregon Towhee. 



Replacing megalonyx west of the Cascades. Its exact counterpart 

 in habits and habitat. 



200. Habia melanocepliala. Black-headetl Grosbeak. 



Not met with alive. Many skins from parts of Washington and 

 British Columbia examined. 



201. Passerina amoena. Lazuli Bunting. 



This beautiful finch is very abundant between the coast range 

 and the Rockies, but does not extend farther north than Bonaparte. 

 Its habitat, in this respect, coincides with that of other species of 

 southern extraction in British Columbia. 



202. Piranga ludoviciana. Louisiana Tanager. 



Fairly abundant and uniformly distributed over the coasts, 

 islands and mainland of Washington and British C^olumbia. 



203. Progne subis. Purple Martin. 



Only one specimen, a male from Victoria, being secured, it is dif- 

 ficult to state whether the Martins of Vancouver Island belong to 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53 



the eastern or western form. The specimen in question closely 

 resembles examples from Pennsylvania. Victoria, Tacoma and 

 Seattle were the only localities where Martins were noted. 



204. Petrochelidon lunifrons. Cliff Swallow. 



205. Chelidon erythrogaster. Barn Swallow. 



206. Tachycineta bicolor. White-bellied Swallow. 



207. Tachycineta thalassina. Violet-green Swallow. 



AVith the possible exception of P. lunijrons, which was not noted 

 west of the Cascades/ these Swallows were nniformly abundant 

 through the length and breadth of the land, up to an elevation of 

 5,000 feet, thalassina being noted 2,000 feet higher. 



208. Clivicola riparia. Bank Swallow. 



Found breeding along the Thompson River at Ashcroft, and 

 more' abundantly at Kamloops. Its distribution in British 

 Columbia is very local. Not included in Messrs. Chapman's or 

 Fannin's lists. 



209. Stelgidopteryx serripennis. Rough-wing Swallow. 



Not as common but of the same distribution as Lhelidon erythro- 

 gaster. 



210. Ampelis cedrorum. Cedar Bird. 



A common species, as erratic in presence and abundance as its 

 eastern counterpait. 



211. Lanius borealis. Northern Shrike. 



Two specimens from Vancouver Island are in the collection. 



212. Vireo olivaceus. Ked-eyed Vireo. 



I did not find the Red-eye west of the Cascades, but over the interior 

 it was commonly distributed, and a few were found at Lac La 

 Hache. 



213. Vireo gilvus swainsonii. Western Warbling Vireo. 



Warbling Vireos abound in Washington and British Columbia. 

 As has been pointed out more fully in the Auk, birds from the 

 northwest indicate the ten ability of swainsonii as a subspecies of 

 eastern gilvus. 



214. Vireo solitarius cassinii. Cassin's Vireo. 



This species is represented by specimens from nearly every local- 

 ity in British Columbia, including Vancouver Island, Lac La 

 Hache and Vernon. It is found in the open timber at higher eleva- 



^Tacoma, Edwards Bros. 




54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



tions, mostly inhabiting the tops of loftiest Conifene. Coast and 

 interior specimens are alike. 



215. Vireo huttonii (obscurus.) Anthony's Vireo. 



May be considered a rare visitor to Vancouv^er Island. I secured 

 one near Victoria. This specimen, also two secured by Mr. Maynard 

 in the spring of 1891, near the same place, are of the strongly 

 marked race of huttonii, proposed by A. W. Anthony in 1890.' 



216. HelminthopMla ruficapilla gutturalis. Calaveras Warbler. 



Two examples of the Calaveras Warbler were taken at Vernon 

 and others were seen at Nelson. They may be considered as neither 

 rare nor abundant in British Columbia. 



217. Helminthophila celata. Orange-crowned Warbler. 



Five specimens from the interior of British Columbia are distin- 

 guishable from the coast form, which does not appear to cross the 

 Cascades. This species is sparsely scattered over the whole interior 

 region. 



218. Helminthophila celata lutescens. Lutescent Warbler. 



A very abundant summer resident on the Pacific slope, coast and 

 islands. All but one of the series can be separated from celata by 

 the darker yellow lower tail coverts. 



219. Deudroica aestiva. Yellow AVarbler. 



The most omnipresent and abundant species of the genus. 



220. Dendroica coronata. Myrtle Warbler. 



I did not meet with the " Yellow-rump " east of the Cascades, 

 but found it associating with D.auduhoni in A^ancouver Island and 

 Washington during the migrations. It is much less abundant than 

 auduboni. The distribution of this bird in British Columbia is, in 

 some respects, unique. 



221. Dendroica auduboni. Audubon's Warbler. 



Abundant summer resident everywhere. 



222. Dendroica maculosa. Magnolia Warbler. 



A specimen taken at Field and two or three observed at Vernon 

 entitle this species to a jilace in the fauna of British Columbia. 

 *223. Dendroica nigrescens. Black -throated Gray Warbler. 



On Vancouver Island the peculiar song of nigrescens was occa- 

 sionally detected but no birds secured. I feel quite sure that I saw 

 a pair on the mountains near Clinton. 



> Zoe, Dec, 1890, p. 307. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



224. Dendroica townsendi. Townsend's Warbler. 



Rare east of Cascades, but abundant in Washington and on Van- 

 couver Island. 



225. Seiuras noveboracensis notabilis. Grinnel's AVater Thrush. 



Found breeding along interior streams. Lac La Hache and 

 Bonaparte. 



226. Geothlypis macgillivrayi. Macgillivray's Warbler. 

 Found breeding at all localities and elevations. 



227. Geothlypis trichas occidentalis. Western Yellow-throat. 



Rare on Vancouver Island. Abundant at Lulu Island and about 

 the shores of reedy lakes in the interior of British Columbia. 



228. Icteria virens longicauda. Long-tailed Chat. 



In the bushes which line the banks of the Thompson River below 

 Ashcroft I secured two males of this species. Another was heard 

 singing on a ranch above the town. Fort Lapwai, Idaho, was here- 

 tofore the most northern record for this Chat. 



229. Sylvania pusilla. Wilson's AVarbler. 

 Sylvania pusilla pileolata. Pileolated Warbler. 



The series of Wilson's Warblers taken in eastern and western 

 British Columbia, compared among themselves and with specimens 

 from the Atlantic States, are devoid of any differences which would 

 justify their separation. There is a singular uniformity in the aver- 

 age measurements of specimens from all localities and, saving two 

 specimens from Vancouver Island which show deeper yellow on the 

 forehead, their coloration is remarkably uniform. Judged by the 

 specimens examined, there is not, when we consider its transconti- 

 nental range, a more "hard and fast" species than Sylvania pusilla. 



North of the United States S. pusilla pileolata has no better claim 

 to recognition than Dendroica aestiva morcomi. 



230. Setophaga ruticilla. Redstart. 



Well represented all over interior British Columbia. 



231. Anthus pensilvanicus. American Pipit. 



Washington and the Province of British Columbia at large. 

 Breeding sparsely on the plateaus and' mesas of the interior, up to 

 4,000 feet. 



232. Cinclus mexicanus. American Dipper. 



Associated with all dashing streams, from the mountains to the sea. 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



233. Galeoscoptes carolinensis. Cat Bird. 



Not abundant anywhere and very local in its distribution. It 

 does not appear to get farther north than Clinton. The brownish 

 cast of upper parts, especially on the crown, rarely seen in eastern 

 skins, is very marked in some British Columbia examples and is 

 present in nearly all of them. Western birds average darker 

 beneath than specimens from the Atlantic coast. Measurements of 

 thirteen specimens (including the Streator series) from British Col- 

 umbia, give the following averages as compared with those of a 

 series of ten from the eastern United States. 



Wing. Tail. Exposed Culmen. Tarsus. 



British Columbia 2-58 3-78 -62 MO 



Atlantic States 3-54 3-75 '63 1-12 



Both of these differences and those of coloration are too slight 

 and variable to warrant any subdivision of the species. 

 ■234. Salpinctes obsoletus. Rock Wren. 



Found about Ashcroft and northward to Cache Creek; also at 

 Kamloops where one was nesting in a " section house," ten feet from 

 the railroad tracks. Five specimens from Ashcroft do not materially 

 differ from Arizona and Utah skins. 



235. Thryothorus bewickii spilurus-. Vigor's Wren. 



Abundant in the west Cascade region of Washington and Brit- 

 ish Columbia. It is doubtful whether this species ever crosses the 

 coast mountains to the interior, it being essentially a lover of lower 

 levels. 



236. Troglodytes aedon parkmanii. Parkman's Wren. 



I never found Farkman's Wren above the 2,000-foot limit. It is 

 not as abundant or evenly distributed in the interior as coastwise. 



237. Troglodytes hiemalis pacificus. Western Winter Wren. 

 Abounding on the coast. Two moulting birds from the Selkirk 



Mountains near Nelson are even darker than skins from Puget 

 Sound. I did not find any Winter Wrens in the arid interior of 

 British Columbia west of the Gold Range, nor at Lac La Hache. 

 The reappearance in the Selkirks of typical pacificus and its absence 

 again from the Rockies at Field tallies perfectly with the alterna- 

 ting climatic conditions already pointed out as occurring across this 

 vast area. Dr. jNIerriam calls the Winter Wren foimd by him in 

 the Saw Tooth Mountains, Idaho, hiemalis. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57 



238. Cistothoms palustris paludicola. Tule Wren. 



Breeding over the lake country east of Cascades. I found it 

 abundant at Lac La Hache. It must range much farther north 

 than this, probably (G. Hamilton) to Stewart's Lake, British Col- 

 umbia, latitude 54°. 



239. Certhia familiaris montana. Kocky Mountain Creeper. 



Rare in British Columbia. A male Creeper from Nelson appears 

 to be montana. 



240. Certhia familiaris occidentalis. California Creeper. 



Neither rare nor common on the Pacific slope. Rare at Nis- 

 qually. Probably reappears on interior mountain peaks. 



241. Sitta carolinensis aculeata. Slender-billed Nuthatch. 



One specimen was taken at Tacoma. It is rare on the coast but 

 abounds in the wooded hills of the interior of British Columbia. 



242. Sitta canadensis. Red-bellied Nuthatch. 



East and West of Cascades ; also in the Rocky Mountains. 



243. Sitta pygmaea. Pygmy Nuthatch. 



Only found, and that sparingly, at Vernon. 



244. Par us atricapillus septentrionalis. Long-tailed Chickadee. 



Abound in the inter-mountainous region of British Columbia, up 

 to 3,000 feet. 



245. Paras atricapillus occidentalis. Oregon Chickadee. 

 Abound in the coast region. 



246. Parus gambeli. Mountain Chickadee. 



Found in the interior mountains of British Columbia but not in 

 the Rockies. 



247. Parus hudsonicus columbianus, subsp. nov. Columbian Chickadee. 



Four specimens of this strongly differentiated ally of hudsonicus 

 were secured in the high mountains surrounding Field, British Col- 

 umbia. They were abundant in the deepest and darkest recesses of 

 the coniferous forest, associating in flocks of ten to twenty individ- 

 uals after the familiar manner of the genus. A description of this 

 new form having already appeared in the Auk, it is useless to refer 

 to it further here except to say that it is larger and darker than 

 hudsonicus, with a much larger bill and with the throat patch jet 

 black instead of brownish-black. 

 5 




58 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



248. Parus rufescens. Ch«stnut-backed Chickadee. 



Very couimoa ou the coast aud Islands but never found east of 

 the Cascades. 



249. Begulas satrapa olivaoeas. Western Golden-crown«d Kinglet. 



I can tiud uo color diHereuce between the east and west Cascade 

 Kinglets. In this respect they agree with the British Columbia 

 "Winter Wrens, 



250. Eegulus calendula. Ruby -crowned Kinglet. 



Numerous ou the coast in spring. Breeding in the interior. The 

 nuptial song of this tiny bird is a truly marvellous production. 

 Perched in the top of a giant tir it will remain motionless for thirty 

 minutes at a stretch, singing an incessant hurly-burly loud enough 

 to be heard half a mile away. 



251. Mjadestes townsendii. Townsend's Solitaire. 



I secured a Solitaire on Vancouver Island in May. They were 

 met with at high altitudes on both slopes of the Cascades, Selkirks 

 and Rockies, as far north as the 52nd parallel, increasing in abun- 

 dance eastward ly. 



252. Turdus fasoesens salicicolas. Willow Thrush. 



In all visited localities of the interior. Breeding at Lac La 

 Hache. This extends Mr. Streator's nesting record of the species 

 150 miles farther north. 



253. Ttirdas ustulatus. Russet-back Thrash. 

 Abundant coastwise. 



254. Turdus ustulatus swainsonii. Swainson'is Thrush. 



A female and young male in nesting plumage shot at Nelson 

 where they were tairly abundant. 



255. Turdus aonalaschkae. Dwarf Hermit Thrush. 



On the coast in migrations. Probably breed in the Cascades and 

 mountains of Vancouver Island. I was surprised to again meet 

 this species at Field, where I saw many aud secured three birds. 

 One of these in spotted nesting plumage proves that the summer 

 habitat of the Dwarf Thrush is far more extended than formerly 

 supposed and accounts for the appearance of this form in Utah aud 

 Nevada in fall migrations. 



256. Turdus aonalaschkae pallasii. llermit Thrush. 



That j)allasii aud not auduboni breed in the region around Lac 

 La Hache is attested by certain skins in the collection. Neither 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59 



form wa3 found iu any other part of British Columbia, If it be 

 found that aonalaschkce and paUasii breed indifferently across com- 

 mon ground in the interior and Rocky Mountain regions of British 

 •Columbia, without the intervention of intermediates, a more com- 

 plete separation of the two than is now recognized must be made. 

 At least two points are established by skins in the collection — 1st 

 the breeding of aotudaschkae in the Rocky Mountains of British 

 ■Columbia ; 2nd, the breeding of pallasii west of the Rockies and 

 south of the 52nd parallel. 



257. Merulamigratoria propinqua. Weeteru Robin. 

 Uniformly abundant everywhere. 



258. Hesperooichla naevia. Varied Thrush. 



Abundant on the coast, but by no means confined thereto, being 

 found at high altitudes on all the mountains of the interior to the 

 Rocky Mountain summits. 



259. Sialia mexicana. AVestern Bluebird. 



Not common anywhere but less so in the east Cascade districts 

 where it does not range beyond the Transition Zone. 



260. Sialia arotica. Arctic Bluebird. 



Abundant in northern and western interior portions of British 

 Columbia. 



A tabulated list of all the specimens forming the author's collec- 

 tion of British Columbia and Washington birds, including those 

 collected by Messrs Morris and Evans in the same region, is appen- 

 ded. The collection has been recently purchased by the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences. 




60 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1893. 



m 



u 



Colymbus auritus 



Podilymbus podiceps 



Urinator imber 



Urinator arcticus 



Synthliboramphus antiquus 



Brachyramphus marmoratus 



Lams glaucescens 



Larus occidentalis 



Larus californicus 



Larus delawarensis 



Larus brachyrhynchus 



Larus Philadelphia 



Merganser americanus 



Merganser serrator 



Anas boschas 



Anas americana 



Anas carolinensis 



Anas discors 



Anas cyanoptera 



Spatula clypeata 



Dafila acuta 



Aythya vallisneria 



Glaucionetta clangula americana 



Glaucionetta islandica 



Charitonetta albeola 



Oidemia deglandi 



Branta canadensis 



Branta canadensis hutchinsii 



Branta canadensis occidentalis 



Ardea herodias 



Forzana Carolina 




1893.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



61 




62 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[1893. 



pa 



> ihJ i<! ipa 



u 



u 



Bubo virginianus 

 Bubo virginianus subarcticus 

 Bubo virginianus saturatus 

 Glaucidium gnoma 

 Glaucidium gnoma californicum 

 Ceryle alcyon 



Dryobates villosus leucomelas 

 Dryobates villosus harrisii 

 Dryobates pubescens gairdneri 

 Dryobates pubescens oreoecus 

 Sphyrapicus varius nuchalis 

 Sphjrapicus ruber 

 Ceophlocus pileatus 

 Melanerpes torquatus 

 Colaptes cafer 

 Colaptes cafer saturatior 

 Chordeiles virginianus 

 Cypseloides niger 

 Trochilus rufus 

 Tyrannus tyrannus 

 Tyrannus verticalis 

 Sayornis saya 

 Contopus borealis 

 Contopus richardsonii 

 Empidonax difficilis 

 Empidonax pusillus 

 Empidonax pusillus traillii 

 Empidonax hammondi 

 Otocoris alpe&tris merrilli 

 Pica pica hudsonica 

 Cyanocitta stelleri 



11 



12 



11 




1893.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



65 



Cyanocitta stelleri annectens 



Perisoreus canadensis capitalis 



Perisoreus obscurus 



Gsrvus corax sinuatus 



Corvus americanus caurinus 



Picicorvus columbianus 



Molothrus ater 



Agelaius phoeniceus 



Sturnella magna neglecta 



Icterus bullockii 



Scolecophagus cyanocephalus 



Pinicola enucleator 



Carpodacus purpureas califomi- 

 cus 



Loxia curvirostra minor 



Acanthis ? 



Spinus pinus 



Poocaetes gramineus 



Ammodramus sandwichensis 



Ammodramus sandwichensis al- 

 audinus 



2^notrichia leucophrys interme- 

 dia 



Zonotrichia leucophrys gambeli 



Zonotrichia coronata 



Spizella socialis 



Spizella socialis arizonae 



Spizella breweri 



Junco hiemalis oregonus 



Junco hiemalis shufeldtii ? 



Melospiza fasciata guttata 



Melospiza lincolni 



Passerella iliaca unalaschensis 




64 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1893. 





Passerella iliaca schistacea 



Piplio maculatus megalonyx 



Pipilo maculatus oregonus 



Habia melanocephala 



Passerina amoena 



Piranga ludoviciana 



Progne ? 



Petrochelidon lunifrons 



Chelidon erythrogaster 



Tachycineta bicolor 



Tachycineta thalassina 



Clivicola riparia 



Stelgidopteryx serripennis 



Ampelis cedrorum 



Lanius borealis 



Vireo olivaceus 



Vireo gilvus swainsonii 



Vireo solitarius cassinii 



Vireo huttoni ( obscurus) 



Helminthophila ruficapilla gut 

 turalis 



Helminthophila celata 



Helminthophila celata lutescens 



Dendroica aestiva 



Dendroica coronata 



Dendroica auduboni 



Dendroica maculosa 



Dendroica townsendii 



Seiurus noveboracensis notabilis 



Geothlypis macgillivrayi 



Geothlypis trichas occidentalis 



Icteria virens longicauda 




1893.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



65 




66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



February 7. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistae, in the chair. 



Fifty-nine persons present. 



The deaths of the following members were announced : — John 

 Markoe, February 1, 1893 ; F. A. Genth, M. D., February 2, 1893. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication: — 



" Notes on some Minerals and Rocks," by Edw. Goldsmith. 



" A Contribution to the Herpetology of British Columbia," by 

 Edw. D. Cope. 



" Pyrophyllite Slate in Northern Pennsylvania," by Abraham 

 Meyer. 



" Notes on the Occurrence of Quartz and other Minerals in the 

 Chemung Measures near the Line of Wyoming and Tioga Counties," 

 by Abraham Meyer. 



February 14. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 

 Forty-two persons present. 



The death of Joseph C. Turnpenny, a member, July, 1892, was 

 announced. 



February 21. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 

 Forty-seven persons present. 



A paper entitled " Involution Form of the Tubercle Bacillus and 

 the Effect of Subcutaneous Injection of Organic Substances on 

 Inflammations," by S. G. Dixon, M. D., was presented for publication. 



February 28. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 

 Twenty-eight persons present. 



The death on the 26th inst of Mr. Jacob Binder, Curator of the 

 William S. Vaux Collections, was announced, whereupon the follow- 

 ing minute was adopted : — 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 6T 



The Academy having heard with sincere regret of the death, the 

 26th inst., of Mr. Jacob Binder, the Curator of the William S. 

 Vaux Collections, it is fitting that a record be made of the society's- 

 appreciation of the loss which it has thereby sustained. 



During the latter years of Mr. Binder's life, from his election to- 

 membership in January 1879 until incapacitated by the lingering 

 illness which has just terminated fatally, his best energies have 

 been devoted to farthering the interests of the Academy. 



He performed his duties as Curator from January 1883 tO' 

 January 1892, as member of the Board of Trustees of the Build- 

 ing Fund from January 1884 to February 1890 and as Curator of 

 the William S. Vaux Collections since 1883, with energy, discretion 

 and liberality. His knowledge of business details was of the utmost 

 value in the financial administration of the society, while his^ 

 personal qualities were such as to endear him to his associates. 



The Academy desires to convey to Mr. Binder's wife and children? 

 the assurance of its profound sympathy in their bereavement. 



On the recommendation of the Council the following were elected 

 to constitute the Committee on the Hayden Memorial Geological 

 Award : — Angelo Heilpriu, J. P. Lesley, Persifor Frazer, Benjamin 

 Smith Lyman and William B. Scott. 



The Council reported the election of Benjamin Sharp, M. D., 

 to fill the vacancy in the Committee on Instruction and Lecturer 

 caused by the death of Mr. Isaac C. Martindale. 



The following were elected members : — 



Joseph Sailor, M. D., Henry Erben, Warner J. Banes, Walter 

 Erben, Charles M. Thomas, M. D., Harold H. Kynett, M. D., 

 Ernest La Place, M. D., Edw. C. Kirk, M. D., Henry L. Taggart,, 

 William B. Scott and H. Frank Moore. 



The following were elected correspondents : — 



The Rt. Hon. Lord Kelvin, Leonard Stejneger of Washington, D. 

 C, Charles B. Cory of Boston, Mass., Arnold Lang of Jena, 

 Germany, Robert Ridgway of New York, William Brewster of 

 Boston, Mass. and J. A. Allen of Cambridge, Mass. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




68 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



THE INTERPRETATION OF CERTAIN VERSES OF THE FIRST CHAPTER 

 OF GENESIS IN THE LIGHT OF PALEONTOLOGY. 



BY HENRY C. CHAPMAN, M. D. 



To those unfamiliar with the fact that the text of Genesis has 

 Ijefore now constituted a subject of discussion before the Academy,^ 

 some apology on the part of the author might be thought appropri- 

 ate for the introduction of such a subject for its consideration. It 

 might naturally be supposed also that there could be but little left 

 to say as to the interpretation of the first chapter of Genesis in the 

 light of paleontological research, especially in view of the consid- 

 eration recently given to that subject by such distinguished contro- 

 versialists as Mr. Gladstone^ and Prof. Huxley.^ As the latter dis- 

 cussion, as well as many other similar ones, appears to have been 

 based almost entirely upon the text of the English version of the 

 Old Testament, revised or otherwise, it may not be regarded as 

 superfluous if the order of the creation of life as given in the 

 original Hebrew and literally translated, be compared with the 

 order in which life appeared according to the testimony of the 

 rocks. To those having no knowledge of Hebrew it should be 

 mentioned that the language is an exceedingly elastic one, especially 

 in the hands of those skilled in Hebrew exegesis — the same word 

 having undoubtedly very many different meanings, according to the 

 context, etc. By far the greater number of the stem words in Hebrew 

 consist of three consonants and the system of " pointing," or the 

 vocalization of such stem words by the addition of points, was 

 introduced by the Jews with the view of fixing definitely the mean- 

 ing of the stem words. Thus, for example, the word CIS Adm, 

 read in Hebrew from right to left, will mean either " he was red," 

 ^' red," or " man," according as DIJ^ is written with the points, as 

 DlX, DIX, DIK. The system of pointing or the vocalization of 



the stem words was, however, only introduced in comparatively 

 recent times (in the interval between the composition of the Targum 

 from the third to the sixth centuries and the making of gram- 

 mars by the Jews in the Arabic language in the beginning of the 

 tenth century) and therefore long after the original Manuscript 



1 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences, 1854. 



2 Nineteenth Century, 188.5, 1886. 



^ Nineteenth Century, 188 ), 1886 — Essays upon some Controverted Questions, 

 1892. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 69^ 



Bibles were written. The Hebrew Bible used to-day by students is 

 usually that in which the words are " pointed," the translation of 

 such words as given in the Hebrew- English Dictionary being that 

 determined upon by Jews living about 1,200 years ago. No doubt such 

 Jews, in the pointing of stem words, as well as the translators of 

 the Bible into English in modern times, were influenced by the 

 interpretation of the Hebrew as given in the Greek translation 

 made by the Seventy at Alexandria in the reign of Ptolemy 

 Philadelphus, and by Aquila, Theodotion and Symmachus, and in 

 the Latin Vulgate of St. Jerome, all six of which versions, it may 

 be mentioned, were incorporated by Origen in his famous Hexapla 

 Bible. The authority, therefore, for the accepted pointed Hebrew 

 text and for the old and revised versions of the English Bible is 

 weighty indeed. It is with great diffidence, therefore, that the 

 author presumes to offer any other interpretation than that usually 

 accepted of those verses in the first chapter of Genesis relating to 

 the creation of animal life. 



The account of the creation of animal life as given in the first 

 chapter of Genesis begins with the 20th Verse, which we give in 

 the original unpointed Hebrew, together with a literal translation 

 of the same : 



n^n tys] Y^'Z* c^d- i^-id*^ d'^-^s* n!2«^i 



living creature reptile waters the abundantly produce shall Aleim said and 



but which, according to the English version, old or revised, is trans- 

 lated, " And God said let the waters bring forth abundantly the 

 moving creature that hath life." 



heavens the of expanse the of faces the above earth the above flutter shall birds 



rendered according to the authorized version, " and fowl that may 

 fly above the earth in the open firmament of heaven." Admit- 

 ting that, while our translation of the Hebrew' is far less beautiful 

 and elegant than the language of the old or revised version, it is 

 nevertheless correct, it will be observed that the Hebrew word j*"itt^, 

 shrtz, is translated by us "reptile" instead of "moving creature," 

 and Diy, ouph, "bird "instead of "fowl." The translation of the word 

 shrtz " reptile " instead of " moving creature " or " creeping creature " 

 as given in the marginal reading of the English versions is justified 

 first by its etymology, it being derived from the verb shrtz, " to creep 

 or crawl or to produce abundantly," and second, from the fact of it 

 being translated by the Seventy, Aquila and Theodotion tp-sra^ 




70 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



by Syramachus tp-sr6v, and by St. Jerome in the Vulgate, reptile. 

 Now while it may be urged by those who favor the text of the 

 English versions that as a reptile is a moving or creeping creature 

 the word shrtz may be so translated it does not necessarily follow 

 that all moving creatures are reptiles. It is obvious, therefore, that 

 if the order of creation according to Genesis is to be compared at 

 all with the order of evolution according to the testimony of the 

 ^ocks, precise rather than general interpretations, as far as possible, 

 must be offered of the Hebrew words in question. The Hebrew 

 ■word ouph, derived from the stem word meaning to vibrate, to flutter, 

 40 fly, we have translated "birds" rather than "fowl," as there is 

 nothing in the context to indicate that fowl especially were the first 

 birds created. According then to the 20th verse of the first chapter 

 ■of Genesis reptiles were created first and birds of some kind afterward. 

 It is admitted by paleontologists that the earliest formations in 

 which the remains of reptiles have been found are of Permian age, 

 the remains found in the earlier carboniferous strata being rather 

 Amphibian than Reptilian in character. It is also admitted that 

 the earliest formations in which the remains of birds have been 

 found are of Jurassic age, a much later formation than the Per- 

 mian. According to the testimony of the rocks, then, reptiles 

 appeared first and birds of some kind afterward, and this is true 

 •even if the supposed footprints found in Triassic rocks should have 

 been made by bird-like animals, since the Triassic as well as the 

 Jurassic formations are of later date than the Permian. Such 

 Iseing the case, the sequence of life as given in the 20th verse of 

 Genesis is the same sequence as that of the rocks. Continuing now 

 the exposition in the 21st verse, according to the original Hebrew, 



living creature every the and great reptiles the Aleim created and 

 wing of bird every the and kind their for waters the abundantly produced which moving 



■or according to the old and new versions " And God created great 

 whales (0. V.), the great sea-monsters (N. V.), and every living 

 creature that moveth which the waters brought forth abundantly 

 .after their kind and every winged fowl. " 



The only two words in the above verse the interpretation of which 

 ■demands especial consideration are tninm and rmsh. The word 

 tuinm is translated in the Vulgate cete, and in the old English ver- 

 sion " whales," in the Septuagint jf^yVij, and in the new version " sea- 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 71 



monster," the word used in the old English version being apparently 

 based upon the Latin, that in the new upon the Greek translations 

 of the Hebrew Bible. The word tninm is derived, according to 

 some Hebrew grammarians from tne, to shriek or wail, and denotes 

 in the form of a noun some kind of serpent, on account of the hiss- 

 ing noise made by such animals. By others, however, the root is 

 supposed to be tnn, to extend, the noun derived from the latter 

 indicating an elongated kind of reptile, such as a great serpent or 

 sea monster of some kind. That the word tninm, however derived, 

 refers to some kind of reptile is shown by it being rendered in the 

 148th Psalm, 7 verse, in the Septuagint, dpaxwrs?, in the Vulgate 

 dracones, and in the English versions " dragons." While the word 

 tninm might be translated " sea monsters," since reptiles like the 

 Dinosauria, etc., are regarded as sea dragons in a popular sense, it is 

 •difficult to justify the rendering of the word by " whales." Further, 

 if the latter interpretation of the word be accepted the difficulty 

 will then present itself of reconciling the statement of Genesis that 

 whales were created before mammals with the evidence of the 

 rocks that goes far to prove that the whales have descended from 

 carnivorous mammals like the seals, the Zieuglodon, an extinct 

 cetacean form combining in many respects the characters of both these 

 orders. On the supposition, however, that by tninm is meant rep- 

 tiles of some kind there is no difficulty in reconciling the statements 

 in Genesis with the facts of paleontology, the reptiles (schrtz) 

 appearing in Permian and Triassic times, such as Proterosaurus, 

 Nothosaurus, Khynchosaurus, etc., being followed by very different 

 kinds of reptiles (tninm) in Jurassic and Cretaceous eras. Marine 

 monsters like the Plesiosaurus, Ichthyosaurus, Elasmosaurus, 

 Edestosaurus and land monsters of which Hadrosaurus, Lselaps, 

 Iguanodon and Megalosaurus are examples. The Hebrew 

 word rmsht being derived from the stem word rmsh, to move, is 

 rendered both in the old and in the revised versions by " moveth," 

 and in the Vulgate by " motabilem." As rmsh secondarily, how- 

 ever, means to creep or to crawl it was translated by the Seventy 

 kpiteroiv. All aquatic animals that moveth, creepeth or crawleth are 

 not, however, necessarily reptiles since there are mammals that 

 " moveth " in the water and " creepeth " or " crawleth " out of it. 

 Indeed, in the reference made in Gen., c. 7 : v. 21, to the death of 

 all flesh " that moveth upon the earth, both of fowl and of cattle 

 and of beast," and in Psalm 104, v. 21, " wherein all of the beasts 




72 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



of the forest do creep," the word used in the original Hebrew to 

 express the idea of beasts moving or creeping is rmsh. The word 

 rrash being so associated with beasts it is as justifiable to suppose that 

 the moving or crawling animals that the waters so abundantly pro- 

 duced at this period of the earth's history, "day the fifth " so-called, 

 were aquatic mammals as that they were aquatic reptiles. Such an 

 interpretation is consistent with the facts of paleontology, the earliest 

 mammal yet discovered, Dromatherium, obtained from rocks of 

 Triassic age and probably of monotrematous nature, being preceded 

 by reptile-like animals, such as the theromorphric Pelycosauria of 

 the Permian, described by Cope. Returning to the exposition of the 

 21st verse it will be observed that while in the 20th verse, in referring 

 to the creation of birds, the Hebrew word ouph alone is used, in the 

 21st verse the same word is coupled with another word, kup. The word 

 knp, being derived from the stem word knp, to cover, when used as a 



S ^ y a a un 



noun should be translated " wing," the Arabic word v_fl,X> ^°f 



having that meaning. The birds with wings, ouph, knp, were 

 created then, according to Genesis, after the birds ouph, presumably 

 without wings. The order of creation, however, is that of evolu- 

 tion, since the reptiles appeared first, being followed by reptile-like 

 birds, Compsognathus, and bird-like reptiles, Archeopteryx, Hes- 

 perornis (Marsh.) 



Passing now to the consideration of the 24th verse, containing the 

 account of the creation of beasts, and translating the original 

 Hebrew literally we would read as follows : 



nrj:^ -•'n a^'s: '^-^'^Tx s:tin d^-^« nos"''! 



kind its for living creature the earth the forth bring shall Aleim said and 



p« in^m tt'ani -Dna 



earth the of beasts wild and thing moving and cattle 



or as rendered in the old and new Versions " And God said let the 

 earth bring forth the living creature after his kind, cattle and creep- 

 ing thing and beast of the earth." 



The HebrcAV word bhm is probably derived from a stem word, 

 bhm, though as a matter of fact there is no such verb in use at the 

 present day. As the kindred words in the Arabic and the Ethio- 

 pmn languages signify, however, "dumbness," the word used in 

 Hebrew as a noun has come to be accepted as meaning "dumb beasts." 

 According to this interpretation it was rendered by the Seventy,. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 73 



T£zpd7:oda, four footed and in the Vulgate, Jumenta, draught cattle. 

 The word rmsh we have translated " moving thing," consistently 

 with the interpretation already given of that word in verse 21. 

 The word was translated ifj-sra iu the Septuagint and reptilia 

 in the Vulgate ; inconsistently in the latter case, however, as 

 essentially the same Avord was previously rendered motabilem. 

 It is difficult to understand why the word " reptile" should be associa- 

 ted with cattle and wild beasts as the context would lead one to 

 suppose that at this late period in the creation of animal life beasts 

 were more particularly created. It is immaterial, however, to the 

 argument whether rmsh be translated in this verse "reptiles" or 

 " moving, creeping or crawling creatures," since it is not to be sup- 

 posed that reptiles at once ceased to appear upon the earth. 

 The translation of the Hebrew word hitu admits of no discussion, 

 being translated in the Septuagint 'fr^pta, in the Vulgate bestias and 

 in the English versions " beasts." It will be remembered that the first 

 mammalia appearing upon the earth, the descendants of reptiles, 

 were probably INIonotremata, resembling the Ornithorynchus and 

 Echidna of the present day. From such lowly organized mamma- 

 lian forms descended the mammalia of the early Tertiary which in 

 turn gave place to the mammalia of the later Tertiary and present 

 geologic epochs. As the " beasts," " mammalia," the bhm of the 

 Hebrews were created on "day the sixth," that is after the rmsh or 

 promammalia, the account of the creation of the mammalia as given 

 in Genesis is therefore consistent with the order of the evolution of 

 the mammalia as based upon the testimony of the rocks. Resuming 

 what Genesis states as to the creation of life, it appears, if the trans- 

 lation just submitted be accepted as correct, that during "day the 

 fifth " the ancestors of the reptiles, the proreptilia, appeared upon the 

 earth, being succeeded during that period successively by the ances- 

 tors of the birds, the pro-aves, reptiles, the pro-mammalia and birds, 

 and that during the following period, " day the sixth," the mammalia 

 appeared. The accompanying diagram will illustrate succintly and 

 genealogically the oi'der of creation as just given. 



The order of creation then, as given in the verses of the first 

 chapter of Genesis just translated, is essentially the same order as 

 that based upon the remains of animal life preserved in the rocks. 

 It may be argued, however, that the account of the creation of ani- 

 mal life as given in Genesis is very meagre, nothing being said as to 

 the creation or appearance of the lower forms of life, fishes even being 



6 




74 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1893. 



only incidentally alluded to in verses 26 and 28 as among the ani- 

 mals given to man to rule over. The prescribed limits of this essay 



Mammalia 

 bhm 



Aves 

 ouph knp 



Pro-mammalia 

 rmsh 



Reptilia 

 tninm 



Pro-aves 

 ouph 



Pro-reptilia 

 shrtz 



do not permit of the consideration of such meagreness, its object 

 being simply to show that the order of creation according to the 

 first chapter of Genesis so far as it is given, is consistent with the 

 well established facts of paleontology. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 75 



THE INHERITANCE OF MODIFICATIONS DUE TO DISTURBANCES OF 



THE EARLY STAGES OF DEVELOPMENT, ESPECIALLY IN THE 



JAPANESE DOMESTICATED RACES OF GOLD-CARP. 



BY JOHN A. RYDER. 



The recent experiments in shaking apart the cells produced by 

 the first cleavage in the eggs of Echinoderms by Driesch, and of 

 Amphioxiis by Wilson, as well as the experiments of Roux, in the 

 same direction, with frogs' egga, show that it is possible for a single 

 one of the two blastomeres resulting from the first segmentation to 

 produce at once a complete embryo, or at any rate to finally recon- 

 stitute the missing half by means of what Roux has called post- 

 generation as in the case of the frogs' eggs. 



These experiments, leading to the development of two separate 

 embryos from the same single egg, have been regarded as so remark- 

 able that they have caused a good deal of discussion. They are, 

 however, it seems to me, to be regarded as having much in common 

 with phenomena that at first thought seem to be widely distinct 

 from them, namely, the production of monstrosities in invertebrates 

 and vertebrates. The occasional duplication of peripheral parts 

 also, such as the tail in lizards when broken off", and an excess of 

 toes or fin-rays, perhaps, may be regarded as belonging ulti- 

 mately to the same category of phenomena, with a similar set of 

 causes operating to produce them, namely, profound disturbances of 

 the normal processes of karyokinesis during development or at the 

 moment of the beginning of the regeneration of lost parts. 



Weber's experiment, reported many years ago, proving that the 

 eggs of the common pike, Emx lucius, could be caused to produce 

 double monstrosities if the recently fertilized ova were violently 

 shaken, is well known. The experience of fish-culturists in hand- 

 ling the eggs of Salmonoids is also well known. A man of very 

 great experience in the fish-cultural establishments of Austro- 

 Hungary informed me some years since that so great was the danger 

 in roughly handling or shaking the ova of the Salmonoids, during 

 the very early stages of their development, that carelessness in this 

 respect would result in producing monstrosities almost exclusively. 

 I have myself, while employed as an assistant by the U. S. Fish Com- 

 mission, seen batches of salmon brood, which were almost entirely 

 composed of fry that had developed as double or triple monsters, 

 «ach with but a single yolk. 




76 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



The well-known experiments of Dare^te in artificially producing 

 monstrosities during the incubation of bird's eggs, are also well 

 known, as well as his methods of experiment, which consisted in 

 shaking the eggs, varnishing a portion of the shell or placing them 

 in an abnormal position, upon one end, for example, during the 

 early days of incubation. Similar experiments have also been made 

 by others, that abundantly confirm the conclusion that abnormal 

 conditions or absolute mechanical disturbances during segmentation 

 are the causes of such duplication of the embryo. Rauber attacked 

 the problem from a morphological standpoint and indicated in 

 some measure the method according to which the doubling occurred 

 in the germinal disk of the eggs of fishes, working upon the blasto- 

 derm of the eggs of the Pike, Esox. He showed that the embry- 

 onic axis was duplicated or triplicated, as the case might be, at the 

 border of the blastoderm. That the distance apart of the two con- 

 temporaneously developed embryos along the rim of the blastoderm, 

 determined the degree to which their axes would be ultimately fused 

 or distinct when the larval development had been completed. 



In the study of a series of double monsters of the common lobster, 

 Homarus Americamcs, I found that some similar law applied in some 

 way, but unfortunately the very early stages were not seen, so that 

 it could not be formulated with precision. The evidence for the 

 existence of such a law was, however, sufficiently complete to war- 

 rant certain general deductions, since various degrees of fusion were 

 seen which were perfectly parallel to those of fishes, except that 

 instead of the ventral aspects being fused where the rudiments of 

 the embryo had been first formed at 180° apart on the blastoderm,, 

 it was here the dorsal aspects that were fused, a fact which is as 

 strictly in conformity with the morphology of the Arthropod series, 

 to which the lobster belongs, as the fusion of the ventral aspect of 

 the embryo of vertebrates is in conformity with the morphology of 

 the adult vertebrate body. 



The discovery of Kleinenberg that the embryos of certain earth- 

 worms studied by him, were sometimes double and coherent, shows 

 that such a method of double development is widely distributed 

 within the series of Bilateralia or bilaterally symmetrical animals. 



Such a budding or division in the embryo may indeed be looked 

 upon as somewhat akin to the development of buds or gemmae in 

 the Porifera or the statoblasts of certain fresh-water Bryozoa which 

 normally develop double embryos directly from a germinal body. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 77 



There may also be a kinship detected in the tendency of Hydrozoa 

 and Scyphozoa to reproduce themselves in this way, especially the 

 sedentary or colonial forms. The tendency of star-fishes to bud out 

 branches from their arms is another illustration of the same thing, 

 and it has been recently shown that under exceptional conditions 

 the point where an arm of a star-fish is budded oflT may mark the 

 point near where a new mouth and a full complement of arms will 

 appear so as to develop a complete new individual. 



As we rise in the scale of organization, this tendency to regener- 

 ate lost parts becomes more and more restricted to the reproduction 

 of peripheral parts only, but the tendency to produce monstrosities 

 in the shape of more or less completely fused embryos, due to dis- 

 turbances of development, remains in full force. Not only is this the 

 fact, but I also believe that I have indisputable evidence that an 

 embryo may undergo partial development within the uterus of a 

 mammal, when it will be arrested and actual histolysis with conse- 

 quent destruction and absorption of the embryo takes place. More 

 remarkable still is the conclusion reached by von Jhering that 

 certain Armadilloes normally produce several young from a single 

 fertilized ovum. His view being that in no other way can we 

 explain the envelopment of the entire litter of young of some of the 

 species of these animals in a common chorion. In this opinion, I 

 take it, von Jhering has the support of the opinion of authorities 

 as eminent as von KoUiker and H. Milne-Edwards. 



When certain of the vertebrates such as fishes, batrachians and 

 reptiles are injured after adolescence is reached, they retain to a 

 limited degree the power to reproduce lost parts. Not only do they 

 possess this power, but they tend to reproduce such parts in dupli- 

 cate, that is, the peripheral part is reproduced double, and as if 

 diverging from the point of mutilation. An instance of this that I 

 recall is the case of a fine Amieva^ in the collection of the 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, had its tail torn oflT, 

 and from the point where the tail was removed two new tails were 

 being produced. Other equally striking instances are the toes of 

 Salamanders that have been injured. The Axolotl and its kindred, 

 the species of Amblydorna, do the sarae thing when the toes are 

 injured or nibbled oflT by fishes ; the tendency is to reproduce them 

 in duplicate, or even in triplicate. The same thing liappens when 

 a fin-ray is injured or torn out in the fins of a Malacopterygian fish : 

 the actinotrichia tend to be reproduced in manifold and radiate 




78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



from the stump of the old ray in a divergent fashion. This fact I 

 have repeatedly observed, as well as the regeneration, i?i situ, of the 

 scales, where they have been forcibly removed from the fish by 

 accident. A case of this kind I traced and described some years 

 ago, the subject being a fine specimen of the mirror-carp that had 

 lost one of the large scales of the lateral line. In this case, how- 

 ever, there is no duplication of the scale during its regeneration. 



It is also a notorious fact that when extra toes or fingers are 

 developed in the human subject, or in a mammal, they tend to 

 become hereditary. And the same seems to be the case with birds,, 

 in the instance of the Dorking fowl amongst domestic breeds. It is 

 my belief from the evidence presented above that such supernumerary 

 digits have been in the first place produced by disturbances during 

 segmentation or karyokinesis. While the embryo was developing 

 its digits in such higher forms and that such disturbances have been 

 registered, so to speak, as part of the hereditary tendencies of the 

 organism, and have thus been handed on to offspring as develop- 

 mental tendencies. The tendency to reproduce supernumerary toes 

 in the cat is well-known. The same tendency is shown in the dispo- 

 sition to reproduce extra thumbs or toes in certain human families. 

 The most extraordinary of these duplications is however presented 

 by the double or fan-tailed races of Japanese Gold-fishes, where the 

 duplication sometimes extends even to the anal fin, so that I have 

 elsewhere been tempted, upon the evidence presented by Dr. Watase 

 as to the development of these fishes, to put in a plea for the actual 

 realization of an eight-limbed vertebrate, a thing against which the 

 learned Professor Haughton, of Dublin, has argued with his wonted 

 acumen, in a still earlier paper touching the utility of the four- 

 limbed condition of the higher vertebrates. 



I believe, however, noAV that the key to the mystery of the pro- 

 duction of the double-tailed gold-fishes is within our reach in the 

 light of the evidence presented above, that we can guess how 

 the Japanese went to work to produce their singular breeds of 

 Cco'assiitf' aurafiis. I believe, in short, that their practice was very 

 simple, and that they have probably antedated the practical appli- 

 cation of the facts of experimental embryology, as known in Europe 

 and our still more western civilization, by several centuries. Since 

 the Japanese records of some of these breeds are very old, as well 

 as the fact that the work of the Marquis de la Savigny, figuring the 

 breeds of these fishes, was published in 1790, we can infer for them 

 an antiquity of, at the very least, a couple of centuries. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 79 



Now as to how the Orientals accomplished the production of 

 double-tailed forms of fishes. I believe they did this by taking the 

 eggs of the normal species of gold-fishes and shaking them, or dis- 

 turbing them in some way, as did Professor Weber with the eggs of 

 the pike. They would thus get some complete double monsters, some 

 with two heads and a single tail, and some with double tails. Mani- 

 festly the complete double monsters would be unlikely to survive. 

 Those most likely to survive would be those with only a duplication 

 of the tail. These being selected and bred would in all probability 

 hand onward the tendency to reproduce the double tail, a tendency 

 which could become very fixed and characteristic if judicious 

 selection were maintained by interested fanciers and breeders, such 

 as are said to exist in Japan, where these fishes of the finest double- 

 tailed races command high prices amongst the wealthy and culti- 

 vated classes. 



If the remarkable peculiarities of the Japanese Gold-fishes were 

 produced as suggested above, and there seems to be no more likely 

 method of their origination, the whole question of the inheritance 

 of mutilations is reopened from a totally new point of view, and one 

 that cannot be assailed by Weismann and his following with much 

 show of success from their present attitude toward these questions. 

 It is clear, however, that we have here a most promising field for 

 experimental inquiry and one that should be at once cultivated in a 

 practical way. 



That the direction of the regeneration of lost parts may be affected 

 by the plane of mutilation is sufliciently well attested by the exper- 

 iments of Barfurth on the tails of tad-poles, some of which I have 

 successfully repeated. If the tip of the tail were snipped ofl^ exactly 

 at right angles to the axis of the body, the tail w^as regenerated of 

 the normal form and straight backward. If at an acute angle, 

 regeneration took place so that the new tip was directed either 

 upward or downward, according as the inclined, regenerating cut 

 surface looked upward or downward. Such facts cannot be dis- 

 missed as useless in connection with the problem of inheritance in 

 general, if they have any bearing upon the questions raised in con- 

 nection with the inheritance of mutilations as viewed in the preced- 

 ing discussion. It is not unlikely that Barfurth's results do have 

 some bearing upon these questions as here viewed. If the plane of 

 mutilation or line of removal of digits affects their direction of 

 growth, as seems likely from Barfurth's and my own experiments, 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



we know to a certainty that there is only one avenue for the access 

 of new material during the process of regeneration of a digit for 

 example, and that is its proximal or basal portion. Through this 

 basal portion alone can new material reach the digit to build up its 

 distal parts. If growth and its accompanying karyokineses were 

 interfered with in any way across a narrow line over the stump, the 

 regenerative energies would be caused to manifest themselves on 

 either side of that line, and the result would be a tendency to repro- 

 duce the digits in duplicate beyond the point of mutilation, and in 

 a divergent fashion from the basal area through which alone new 

 material could find access by intussusception during the process of 

 regeneration. We consequently get a mechano-physiological expla- 

 nation of why it is that doubly reproduced distal parts tend to 

 diverge from each other radially. 



The same principle, together with concrescence, may be invoked, 

 as it has been in another form, by Rauber," to explain the degree of 

 fusion of double or triple monsters produced by shaking mesoblastic 

 ova during their early blastodermic stages of development. But 

 Rauber's explanation must in this case be supplemented by a 

 consideration of the physical laws of the interfacial and free surface- 

 tensions which condition growth during the development of a thin 

 blastoderm in a meroblastic egg, making, for self-evident physical 

 reasons, the production of completely separate embryos well nigh 

 an impossibility, even by shaking or otherwise interfering with 

 development. Even if separate germinal disks were developed on 

 a telolecithal egg, there is every reason to believe that, as segmenta- 

 tion proceeded, the two resulting blastoderms would become fused 

 by their edges as the latter advanced over the yolk and approached 

 each other as they necessarily must in order to increase, as they do, 

 in a geometrical ratio, their power of appropriating the stored nutri- 

 tive mass of yolk. On a priori grounds, and for mechanical reasons, 

 therefore, the complete separation of the germinal matter of a 

 large-yolked meroblastic egg is impossible. The total separation of 

 the two first blastomeres of the equally segmenting, holoblastic eggs 

 of echinoderms and Ampkioxus, on the other hand, is easily accom- 

 plished by mere violent mechanical interference, so that completely 

 distinct and separate, but smaller, embryos are easily obtainable 

 if such separated blastomeres are allowed to develop under favorable 

 conditions. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



As stated in the earlier part of this paper, the regenerative power 

 seems, in low and primitive forms, and also in the very early stages 

 of the highest, as shown by von Jhering in the development of 

 Armadilloes, by what he calls temnogeny, or normal division and 

 complete separation of the cells of the fertilized egg, to be most 

 completely represented in the early blastomeres or the products 

 of the early segmentations. In the next grade of organic types, 

 Porifera and Coelenterata, there appears to be a wider exten- 

 sion upon the whole organism and its parts of this regenerative 

 power. In bryozoa and echinoderms there is still in many forms 

 more or less of this regenerative power distributed throughout the 

 organism, but as specialization proceeds it seems to become less 

 marked, and if there is disturbance of the mode of development of 

 the Bilateralia, besides the apparently normal consecutive or linear 

 gemmation as in Monotus, Mijrianida and Aidolytus, there is devel. 

 oped a tendency to double the axis so that branched or coherent 

 double individuals arise. This reaches a most remarkable expres- 

 sion amongst Syllid worms, as worked out by Professor Mcintosh, 

 and may even extend to an early stage, as in the case of the produc- 

 tion of double embryos in Lumbriciis, according to Kleinenberg. 

 In both the arthropod and vertebrate series disturbances of early 

 embryonic development, affecting the order and relations of the 

 karyokinetic processes in the blastoderm, are productive of double 

 monstrosities variously fused, according to a law which has been to 

 some extent defined by Rauber. 



As we proceed in our review of the successively higher groups we 

 find that this purely regenerative power becomes less and less 

 marked. In some worms, for example, the head may be regenerated 

 if cut off. It is doubtful whether this would be possible with even 

 the lowest vertebrate. In the vertebrates and arthropods or highest 

 Bilateralia, the regenerative power is reduced to the power of repro- 

 ■ducing lost digits or entire appendages, as in Crustacea. In verte- 

 brates it is finally restricted in fishes, batrachians and reptiles to* the 

 regeneration of the tail or the distal parts of the extremities in the 

 adult, and in the highest of these series, namely, birds and mam- 

 mals, the power of the adult to regenerate lost distal parts of the 

 extremities is also lost. Nevertheless, there remains in the tolerably 

 advanced embryos of these forms the power to respond in a remark- 

 able way to disturbances of the normal hereditary or regenerative 

 processes involving the distal parts of the extremities, such as the 




82 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



digits. The regenerative powers therefore seem to become dimin- 

 ished with the specialization of a type, and to be manifested last of 

 all in the distal ends of the extremities. The most marked changes 

 may occur in the way of duplication, triplicatiou, etc., of the axis, 

 even in the highest types, provided the development or processes of 

 segmentation are disturbed early enough, and in some definite way. 

 The conclusion which is warranted from the whole of the foregoing 

 is that the regenerative power of organisms disappears as we rise in 

 the scale of organization, last oj all in the peripheral extremital parts. 

 A further observation is justified, which is, that the power to produce 

 monstrosities or congenital aberrations of development due to external 

 disturbances of segmentation, during growth, diminishes in the higher 

 forms pari passu with the advance in development. Finally, it may 

 be affirmed with much show of probability that aberrations of 

 development produced by disturbances of the processes of segmen- 

 tation during growth, may become hereditary, as illustrated by the 

 probable inheritance of partially duplicated axes in the tails of 

 Japanese gold-fishes, or of supernumerary digits in many mammals 

 and in Man. 



How such new parts, originated as here supposed, can transmit to 

 the ova of the parent body, of which they form a part, a tendency 

 to cause them ( the new characters ) to reappear in the off^spring 

 developed from such ova or germs, cannot be explained without 

 supposing that the new part of the body of the parent influences at 

 a distance the characters and potentialities of the germinal matter 

 produced by it in its gonads. The difiiculties in the case of the 

 partly double body of the Japanese Gold-fishes are peculiar, in that 

 we have to assume that hereditary tendencies are transmitted from 

 a parent body and part of another of each sex, making in all, ten- 

 dencies transmitted from two bodies and parts of two others, in the 

 course of the ordinary sexual reproduction of the double-tailed 

 species, since there cannot be the slightest doubt that, in this case, 

 we have to deal with partially double monsters (as is proved by 

 their morphology), with normally developed reproductive powers. I 

 confess to an utter inability to see how this can be done by means of 

 gemmules, the oldest hypothesis of heredity, first formulated by 

 Democritus, then restated in a more modern form by BuflTon, then 

 by Erasmus Darwin in the Zoonomia, and lastly by Charles Darwin. 

 This doctrine therefore has a very respectable pedigree, but it is 

 strange that none of the later writers credit their predecessors with. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 83 



having entertained similar opinions. But to recur to my point, it is 

 clearly certain that the partially double body of the parent in this 

 case must have influenced the germs it inclosed at some time in the 

 history of the race, or at the time the latter was originated by the 

 Orientals. The first partially double, monstrous pair of gold-fishes 

 to have offspring must have been reared somewhere in the East ; 

 whether in Corea, China or Japan does not matter. The fact that 

 they reproduced themselves is indisputable. That they were first 

 produced by artificial interference with, or mutilation of the normal 

 processes of their early development becomes, in the light of what 

 has been said above, a conclusion of the utmost probability. Weis- 

 mann and his followers can take either horn of this dilemma. The 

 inevitable conclusions are : first, that new parts of the parent body 

 at a distance do at once, in the first generation, influence the germ- 

 cells inclosed by such a parent body ; secondly, the i^robability of 

 the inheritance of the effects of certain mutilations, injuries, interfer- 

 ences or displacement of parts, during the early stages of develop- 

 ment, amounts almost to a certainty. 



Moreover, whereas the separation of the early cells or blastonieres 

 in certain eggs, such as those of Armadilloes, Sea-Urchins and the 

 Lancelet and Frog is possible, the egg in these cases being essen- 

 tially holoblastic at the time of the first two cleavages, two or more 

 completely separate embryos can be developed. The conditions of 

 development, it must be borne in mind, in the higher series, where a 

 blastoderm is developed, closely and firmly adherent to the very 

 large, nutritive yolk, are very different from the foregoing. So dif- 

 ferent indeed, are the conditions of development in these latter mer- 

 oblastic forms that it would be extremely improbable that entirely 

 separate and multiple embryos could be developed from their ova. 

 At most only such mechanical disturbances would be possible as 

 would lead to a more or less complete duplication, triplication, etc. 

 of embryos. That the effects of such embr3'onic mutilations or 

 interferences may be hereditarily transmitted will hardly be admit- 

 ted by the anti-niutilationists, but to evade the force of these facts 

 is impossible. 



The coherence of the embryos together in meroblastic eggs, con- 

 ditioned as it is by the interfacial and free surface-tensions between 

 the blastoderm and yolk, is, it seems to me, plainly indicative of the 

 indisputable conclusion that mutilational influences operating upon 

 meroblastic ova are themselves influenced by mere physical condi- 




^4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



tions and. forces, and that even these leave a reminiscence of tlieir 

 effects upon the germs, the development of which they thus indi- 

 rectly affect. What again shall be said in such cases of the effect 

 of such external or physical agencies or conditions in modifying the 

 development of future generations, as seems to be proved by the 

 history of the domesticated races of Japanese Gold-fishes? Weis- 

 mann must now own, if the preceding views can be sustained, 

 that lie is beaten upon his own ground, and also admit that he has 

 been in error from the beginning as to the non-transmission to the 

 germs of characters that have been acquired by the body of the 

 parent. 



The domesticated races of Japanese Gold-fishes outstrip every 

 known form of domesticated animal in the extent to which they 

 have been modified, and it is therefore strange that Mr, Darwin 

 should have devoted so little consideration to them in his works. 

 In one of his botanical works Mr. Darwin makes the suggestion 

 that the bilateral halves of the Bilateralia may have arisen by 

 longitudinal concrescence of two similar individuals of opposite sex. 

 This suggestion of his, as to the origin of the bilaterally sym- 

 metrical condition, may be dismissed as exceedingly improbable and 

 unfortunate, and as in direct conflict, moreover, with the known 

 mode of the development of monsters with double axes. Such mon- 

 strous races, as is proved by the morphology of the adult Japanese 

 Gold-fishes, their known analogies to the development of double 

 vertebrate monsters, have been produced almost beyond a shadow of 

 doubt by mutilational interference with the early processes of nor- 

 mal development, and this monstrous mode of development has 

 become hereditary. 



The procedure by means of which the Orientals originated their 

 peculiar races of Gold-fishes I believe was more exactly as 

 follows: After the blastoderm had spread over about one-third or 

 more of the surface of the yolk, the eggs were shaken or violently 

 disturbed. This proceeding would cause the production of one or 

 more new embryonic axes at the rim of the blastoderm near the 

 original axis, but the new axes would not develop a head, but 

 would, as a result of the operation of the principle of concrescence, 

 soon fuse with the caudal end of the original or first-formed embry- 

 onic axis. This would cause a doubling, more or less complete, of 

 the caudal end or urosome of the embryo. In this way it may be 

 siipposed that the partially double urosome of these singular fishes 




1893.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 85^ 



was developed, so far at least as to duplicate the hypural system of 

 bones of the tail, and consequently the tail itself, while this doubling 

 would also manifest itself farther forward so as to sometimes double 

 the anal fins as well. The caudal part of the notochordal axis i& 

 rarely doubled, though there is an evident tendency to do so in some 

 individuals. 



The great exaggeration in the development of the fins in Japanese 

 Gold-fishes, especially the caudal, is, however, not wholly accounted 

 for by the theory of the inheritance of tendencies toward monstrous 

 development. Nor is the obvious degeneration of certain parts of the 

 muscular system in some of the races thus accounted for. Nor can 

 we again account for the differences in the relative lengths of the 

 intestine in the different races on such a hypothesis. Only one 

 structure, the squamation and the number of myotomes, seems to 

 have remained constant in the course of the great modifications 

 which these fishes have undergone. I find that the number of rows 

 of scales in the lateral line in all the races I have studied, presents 

 practically no variation ; that is, the number of scales in the lateral 

 line varies only from 25 to 26. The number of myotomes is 

 also constant in all the races, and corresponds to the number of 

 transverse rows of scales. In order to make the facts stated above 

 somewhat more easy of apprehension, I have tabulated the result 'of 

 a series of careful measurements, based upon tliree races, viz : (1) 

 the normal or common gold-fish, Carassius auratus ; (2) a long- 

 bodied double-tailed variety of great beauty, which has been reared 

 in the aquaria of Dr. W. H. Wahl, who has kindly let me have 

 some dead individuals, for study; (3) a short-bodied double- 

 tailed race with a very protuberant abdomen, which were imported 

 from Japan, and of which dead examples were furnished me by 

 Mr. W. P. Seal. 



I found that the head in all cases was the least variable part of 

 the animal. I have accordingly regarded it as a standard of com- 

 parison in a general final table. The following tables will explain 

 themselves, and give absolute measurements in millimetres of the 

 same parts of the three races in parallel columns. 



By urosome is meant the part of the trunk behind the body cav- 

 ity, and between the latter and the base of the caudal fin. 1 have 

 compared the musculature of the abdomen and urosome to a frus- 

 tum of a cone with an elliptical cross section. In this way it is 

 possible to show, taking the absolute measurements in connection 




-86 



PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 

 I. 



[1893. 



^th other facts, that there has been a process of degeneration at 

 work in reducing the proportional volume of the musculature of 

 the body and urosome in the double-tailed races. Table II gives 

 the height of this frustum of a cone to which I have compared the 

 musculature of the body, as well as the major diameters of the base 

 and apex of the frustum in millimetres, for each race in absolute 

 measurement, 



II. 



In a third table I have attempted to represent the proportions of 

 the several parts to each other, but from tables I and II, I obtain 

 •data for a more general and final fourth table in which the individ- 

 uals are supposed to be of the same age, and more nearly of the 

 «ame size and weight than was the material at my disposal. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



III. 



87 



Taking the head as the least variable portion of the three races, 

 and assigning to it an arbitrary value of 50 mm. in a hypothetical 

 individual by dividing the actual lengths of the other parts in mil- 

 limetres by their own length of head in millimetres, then multiply- 

 ing this product by 50, I get a new set of values in which the parts 

 are in the proportion of the preceding table, but in which the indi- 

 viduals are, in the case of each race, of about the same size, age and 

 condition of volume, and consonant with the modifications that 

 have been suffered by each one. This table is given below, and 

 from it it is possible to plot the outlines of the three hypothetical 

 frustums of cones that will represent approximately the condition 

 of development of the musculature of the body and tail of the 

 three races as seen from the side. 



IV. 



Common 

 race. 



Long-bodied 

 Japanese race. 



Short-bodied 

 Japanese race. 



Length of 

 intestine. 



650 mm. 



4625 mm. 



587'5 mm. 



Length 

 ofhead. 



50 



50 



50 



Height o f 

 frustum. 



110-7 mm. 



110-8 ram. 



73-65 mm. 



D i a m eter 

 of major 

 axis of base 

 of frustum. 



66-2 mm. 



65 mm. 



61-3 mm. 



D i a m eter D i s t a n c e 

 of maj o r of anus from 

 ax is of apex base of cau- 

 of frustum, dal. 



24-3 mm. 



21-7 mm; 



18-4 mm. 



42 mm. 



41 mm. 



26-3 mm. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1893. 



These tables aud 

 the appended dia- 

 gram based upon 

 them, it seems to 

 me, make it tolera- 

 bly certain that 

 there has actually^ 

 be e u a marked 

 degeneration in the 

 relative p r o p o r - 

 tional development 

 of the volumes of" 

 the musculature of 

 the body and uro- 

 some or tail in two 

 of the three races 

 examined. 0th e r 

 facts, however, for- 

 tify this conclusion 

 very strongly. The 

 most important 

 being the fact that 

 the vertical rows of 

 scales just behind 

 the abdomen, on the 

 sides of the urosome 

 of the short-bodied 

 race, overlap each 

 A. Outline of frustum of cone representing the mus- O^ner I a r more 

 culature of body and urosome of common race of Gold- extensively than do 

 carp. B. Same of long-bodied Japanese race, reared those in the other 

 byDr. Wahl. C. Same of short-bodied Japanese race. two. When we 



come to examine the muscular somites underlying these rows of 

 greatly overlapping scales in the short-bodied race, we actually find 

 them markedly shorter than those some distance behind, or those 

 some distance in front of them. This seems to me to prove conclu- 

 sively that there has been actual degeneration of the muscular sys- 

 tem of the body or trunk, and that this degeneration is especially 

 well marked in the short-bodied race. The intestine in the latter is 

 also found to be proportionally longer than in the normal, common,. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 89 



or in the long-bodied, double-tailed races. This increase in the 

 length of the intestine is also indicated by the very protuberant 

 abdomen of the short-bodied race. This short-bodied race, with a 

 protuberant abdomen, I am informed by breeders, is a very vora- 

 cious feeder, thus not belying the indications of its large abdomen 

 and proportionally long intestine. 



It is also probable that the bodies of the vertebr;* are shorter in 

 the short-bodied than in the long-bodied races. This point I have, 

 however, neglected to determine, 



I believe, in short, that the degenerative changes in the muscular 

 system of the Japanese Gold-fishes is connected with their continued 

 restraint to small aquaria for many generations, and that their mus- 

 cular system has degenerated through disuse. That, on the other 

 hand, the failure to be able to expend energy in the production of 

 motion of the body in the water has reacted in other ways upon 

 their organization, and especially upon the growth of the fins. This 

 has gone on until, in some of the races, it would actually be possible 

 to envelop almost the entire head and body in the enormous double 

 caudal. In fact, these members grow so long that they become an 

 actual hindrance to rapid swimming, and are of less use in pro- 

 pelling the fish in the water, so that their swimming becomes very 

 slow, and seemingly performed with some difficulty as compared 

 with the normal form. All the fins partake of this tendency to 

 become extended ; the pectorals enlarge and lengthen, and the 

 dorsal, in some races, becomes so long that it falls over and over- 

 hangs one side of the body. Fish-culturists also tell me that it is 

 useless to try to keep these races with other species of fishes in 

 ponds, because the more active carnivorous forms will soon bite off 

 and destroy the long, graceful, and lace-like caudals of these help- 

 lessly modified Japanese races. These races have been so modified 

 by man's agency, that they have become absolutely unfitted to suc- 

 cessfully battle for existence, if left to themselves. 



Their sluggish habits have been purposely cultivated by Oriental 

 fish-fanciers. To such an extreme of sluggishness have they been 

 brought, that, owing to their monstrous development, they are some- 

 times no longer able to maintain their equilibrium in the water, but 

 stand on the head or tail in the very small aquaria, in which they 

 are kept, and in which they would become asphyxiated were it not 

 for the precaution taken by the Japanese to introduce into the same 

 7 




so PROCEEDI>'^GS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



aquarium small, harmless, but very active fishes of other species, in 

 -order that the water be kept circulating, and thus aerated for the 

 Jbenefit of the helplessly modified, but most valued tenant. 



These circumstances give, it seems to me, a clew to the explana- 

 tion, not only of the degeneration of the musculature under domes- 

 tication, owing to its enforced disuse, but also some indication of 

 what are the causes of the extension of the fins. The material 

 saved from expenditure in muscular effort may be expended in 

 growth iu another direction, and the most advantageous would be 

 that which would increase the surface of the fins, and thus render 

 them useful in dermal respiration. The large vessels and numerous 

 capillaries in the huge tails of very fine specimens of the Kinyiko 

 race, that I have seen, indicate that the caudal fin may possibly 

 5erve in a very important way as an adjunct to branchial respira- 

 tion. The question therefore arises, have not the immense fins of 

 the Japanese double-tailed gold-fishes been developed partially in 

 physiological response to artificial conditions of respiration, that 

 were not as favorable as those enjoyed by their wild congeners? 

 That the dorsal, anal and caudal fins may be so modified as to min- 

 ister in an important way to the needs of respiration, is proved by 

 the development of the richly vascular and exaggerated vertical 

 £ns of the embryos of fcetal Embiotocoid fishes, as long ago shown 

 bv Blake, and fully confirmed and elaborated in greater detail by 

 the writer. 



It is also a remarkable fact that the fins and tail of the larvie of the 

 •double long-tailed races do not show such characters at once, but it is 

 not until long after thelarval stages-are passed, that the breeder can be 

 certain of rearing a specimen with a fine long tail, from any given 

 young fish. The fishes are usually upward of two inches iu length 

 before the breeder can be pretty sure that the young or half-grown 

 individuals will develop a great length of tail. This fact shows 

 that the long tail was originally acquired very late in ontogenetic 

 development, and is not a larvally apparent differentiation. This 

 circumstance is also unique amongst fishes, and for that matter, 

 almost the exact reverse of what usually takes place, since the young 

 of many marine fishes have certain parts of the fins very greatly 

 produced, only to be absorbed before adolescence is reached. This 

 is the case with the larvie of Lophim and Fierasfer. Only amongst 

 higher animals do we find secondary sexual characters produced at 

 a late period of growth, such as the deciduous horns of the Deer 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 91 



family, or defensive organs, such as the horns of the ox and ante- 

 lope families, which are produced at a relatively late period. 



The fact that the very long fins of the full grown individuals of 

 the double-tailed races of Gold-carp are only fully developed at a 

 very late period of the growth of the animal, is in harmony with the 

 view that the hypertrophy of those organs is associated with a 

 correlative degeneration of the muscular system of the trunk, and 

 a possible use of these structures with their great amount of surface 

 as respiratory organs, in the restricted and badly aerated tanks 

 and aquaria in which they have been bred for centuries. 



Since the above was written, Mr. W. P. Seal has sent me a series 

 of the "telescope-eyed" double-tailed race of Gold-carp. This, 

 together with the materials previously supplied by the same gentle- 

 man and Dr. Wahl, enables me to greatly extend my comparisons 

 and also, as will be seen below, to add some very remarkable facts to 

 our knowledge of these singular domesticated races of fishes as com- 

 pared with their wild congeners, long since introduced into the 

 Schuylkill, and now native to that river. 



The most astonishing peculiarity of the " telescope-eyed " race is 

 the development of the eyes. The latter are very much larger pro- 

 portionally than in the common or in any other races, so that the 

 eyes actually protrude from the orbits in a most grotesque manner. 

 The size of the eyes on opposite sides of the head even seem to vary 

 somewhat, and in the extent to which they protrude from the 

 orbit. In some specimens the eye-balls are a third more in diam- 

 eter across the equator than in either the common or the other 

 double-tailed races. A broad band or ring of integument passes 

 all round the equator of the eye-ball joining the cornea distally 

 and the margin of the orbit proximally. 



The most surprising tact of all, however, is the shape of the eye- 

 ball in the telescope-eyed race, in that the eye-ball tends to become 

 greatly elongated in the direction of its optic axis. Sometimes the 

 diflTerence between the axial and equatorial diameter is as much as 

 three millimetres, constituting an extremely myopic form of eye-ball. 

 The form of the eyeball in the common race is flat or hypermetropic 

 in character. A gradual passage from the hypermetropic form of 

 eye-ball to the myopic is shown in the following table, as based 

 upon actual approximate measurements of the eye-balls of indi- 

 viduals of the three races. 




92 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



V. 



[1893. 



The size and shape of the globular lens in the "telescope-eyed" 

 race is not appreciably different from that of the other races with, 

 smaller eye-balls. It would therefore, seem impossible for the 

 image formed by the lens of a distant object in the " telescope 

 eyed " race, to be thrown upon the retina at all, consequently the 

 condition is one of near-sightedness, or of an optical adjustment for 

 very near objects. The conditions of life of these races, in small 

 tanks or aquaria, where they are bred under conditions of the great- 

 est protection from man, would in their restricted quarters actually 

 foster the development of near-sightedness, and any variations in 

 that direction would actually tend to be preserved. There is a con- 

 dition of disuse also to be taken into account in this process, since 

 these fishes no longer need their eyes with which to watch the 

 approach of their enemies, but only to look out for their food, 

 which is supplied to them by their human friends and protectors.- 

 To what extent this factor has been of service in altering the shape 

 of the eye-balls, it is of course, as yet, impossible to state. The pre- 

 ceding table V, however, makes the gradual passage from the hyper- 

 metropic or flat eye of the normal race to that of the myopic or long 

 eye of the " telescope-eyed " race sufficiently obvious as the series of 

 measurements given of the eye-balls of the different races proves. 



The fact that a race of fishes may become myopic, as would seem 

 to be indicated by the foregoing data, is most surprising, aud affords 

 a case parallel in some respects with that of the human race itself; 

 but in the case of these fishes the myopic tendency has probably 

 been further developed by the intentional selection of myopic indi- 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 93 



vidiials by breeders and fanciers for breeding purposes. A near- 

 sighted fish is certainly au anomaly, and the name " telescope " fish, 

 in allusion to the protruding eye-balls, becomes a misnomer, since the 

 form of the eye is distinctly myopic .and short-sighted, and not 

 hypermetropic or far-sighted as required of an optical organ having 

 telescopic capabilities. These facts go still further to support my 

 assertion that these races of Gold-carp are the most profoundly 

 modified of any known race of domesticated animal organisms. No 

 •other domesticated animal, as far as I am aware, shows such pro- 

 nounced evidence of becoming myopic. 



These " telescope eyed " fishes also show evidences of mal-develop- 

 ment of the dorsal fins, and a tendency to have the vertebral col- 

 umn curved downward behind in an abnormal way, producing the 

 appearance of a " hunch-backed condition." Such defective devel- 

 opment of the dorsal together with a hunched back is also not 

 infrequent amongst the other short-bodied and long-bodied double- 

 tailed-races. Such defective development of the dorsal, accom- 

 panied by a hunched back, is also found in partially monstrous 

 trout, some of which have been recently figured by a writer in 

 Forest and Stream (vol. xxxix, p. 562, 1892), from specimens sup- 

 plied by Mr. Creveling, which measured from 6? to 8 inches in 

 length. Since these changes in the development of trout are well 

 known to be associated with injuries inflicted during the early 

 stages of development, the case that I have made out for the origin 

 of the double-tailed races of Gold-fish is thus markedly strengthened 

 by similar facts derived from an entirely distinct family, the Sal- 

 monidse. All of the foregoing evidence consequently compels me to 

 abandon the view entertained by me in an earlier paper^ respecting 

 the origin of the double-tailed races of Gold-carp, in which it was 

 suggested that the doubling of the anal and caudal was a reversion 

 to a remote ancestral condition in fishes, in which paired lateral-fin 

 folds extended for the whole length of the body. This view involves 

 the conception that the single caudal of existing fishes was primi- 

 tively a double organ, which has been produced by the concrescence 

 of a pair of lateral caudals, a doctrine which it is quite impossible 

 to reconcile with the morphology of the tails of normal fishes, or that 

 of the tails of the double-tailed races of Gold-carp. What to my 

 mind makes this view still more improbable is the fact that I find 

 the double tails of these " telescope-eyed " forms completely divided 



^An eight-limbed Vertebrate. American Naturalist, September, 1887, pp. 862- 

 863. 




94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1893. 



up to the vertebral axis, so that, morphologically speaking, there 

 are parts of two distinct axes, or individuals, present in each speci- 

 men. This evidence, together with that respecting the defective 

 development of the dorsal, and the tendency toward a hunch- 

 backed and deformed condition, perfectly parallel to the conditions 

 seen in traumatically deformed trout, seems to me to almost conclu- 

 sively prove that the double-tailed races of Gold-carp have arisen 

 in the first place as a consequence of injuries inflicted during the 

 early development of the eggs and embryos, and that the effects of 

 these embryonic traumatisms have become hereditarily transmissible, 

 as the facts seem to indicate. 




1893.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



95 



THE VASCULAR RESPIRATORY MECHANISM OF THE VERTICAL FINS 

 OF THE VIVIPAROUS EMBIOTOCID^. 



BY JOHN A. RYDER. 



The young surf-perch, Ditrema laterale, from which this figure i& 

 drawn, measured about twenty-three millimetres in length. It was 

 one of several which were removed from the saccular ovary of 

 the parent, each young fish lying lengthwise and disposed so as to 

 bring the enormously expanded vertical fins into contact with the 

 wide ovarian folds and the sides of the ovarian walls. As can be 

 seen from the figure, the lateral area of the vertical fins quite equals,. 



if it does not exceed, the lateral areas of the body. In fact, the 

 dorsal is as high as the body is deep. In the same way the caudal 

 fin is as wide at its widest part as the body's greatest width. The 

 total length of the caudal is not far from a third of the total length 

 of this larval stage. Another feature which distinguishes this 

 young fish from the young of all other species is the highly vascu- 

 lar condition of the inter-radial membranes of the vertical fins. 

 This vascularity is not only obvious when the object is viewed with 

 a transmitted light, but also in sections. The most marked devel- 

 opment of capillary vessels is found in the flattened lobes with 

 which the fins are bordered. Fourteen very distinct lobes with deep 

 notches between them are found along the margin of the tail ; about 




96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1893. 



twenty-eight smaller lobes can be counted on the margin of the anal 

 fin. About eighteen well-marked lobes presenting the highly vas- 

 cular character of the others, already mentioned, are found to bor- 

 der the dorsal fin, the spaces between the anterior nine rays of 

 which, unlike the others of the same fins, are non-vascular. In cor- 

 respondence with this highly vascular condition of the marginal 

 lobes and the inter-radial spaces in these three sets of fins, there is 

 found to be developed a system of three sets of large arterial and 

 venous trunks which send the blood to and carry it away from the 

 vertical fins. 



The caudal termination of the caudal vein and aorta supply the 

 caudal fin. In the figure it is mainly the venous trunks which are 

 represented. It is seen that at the point where the caudal vein 

 enters the caudal fin it divides into two very large trunks, such as 

 are not met with in any other known type of fish of the same age. 

 One of these trunks passes in a dorsal and another in a ventral 

 direction, carrying away the blood from the dorsal and ventral 

 halves respectively of the caudal fin. The number of branches 

 which pass from the two trunks mentioned correspond very closely 

 to the number of inter-radial spaces. A second system of vessels, 

 much slighter in caliber after death than they probably were 

 during life, is seen just a little way anterior to the two large venous 

 trunks already described. These are probably the dorsal and ven- 

 tral branches of the arterial system into which the posterior termi- 

 nation of the caudal portion of the aorta divides in order to supply 

 the caudal fin-membranes with arterial blood. The radiating venous 

 and arterial inter-radial vessels pass quite to the margin of the 

 caudal, where they form vascular arcs around the edges of the flat 

 vascular lobes already described. From within this vascular arc to 

 the point of insertion of the caudal rays the inter-radial membrane 

 is found to be traversed by a close plexus of capillary vessels. 

 This plexus is excavated in a connective tissue which lies between 

 the epidermis of the opposite sides of the fin. 



Four sets of vascular trunks pass from the dorsal ; of these the 

 three posterior are the most strongly dev^eloped. They take their 

 rise directly from the caudal vein and caudal portion of the aorta 

 on the dorsal aspect of these vessels. Each of these vessels upon 

 reaching the base of the dorsal divides into an anterior and poste- 

 rior trunk. Each of these trunks gives off" in a vertical direction 

 nearly at right angles to themselves a series of inter-radial vessels. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 97 



The posterior trunk gives off the greatest number of these inter- 

 radial vessels. The anterior main trunk gives oft' four inter-radial 

 "vessels. The marginal lobes are highly vascular, although not so 

 wide nor so long as those of the caudal fin. 



The aual fin receives its vascular, supply through four sets of 

 large trunks coming off from the inferior aspect of the caudal vein 

 and aorta. These trunks pass nearly straight downward toward 

 the margin of the anal, their distal portions only being slightly tor- 

 tuous. The posterior or fourth trunk, as are all the others, is bifur- 

 cated at the base of the anal into an anterior and posterior branch 

 much in the same way as the similar vessels divide in the dorsal. 

 The fourth trunk gives oft" the greatest number of inter-radial ves- 

 sels. The second and third give oft' a smaller number of such 

 inter-radial branches. The first anal trunk appears to supply a 

 portion of the inter-radial spaces at the anterior edge of the anal 

 fin while branches moi'e or less intimately associated with it, or 

 derived from it, pass to the greatly hypertrophied hind-gut. At any 

 rate the vascular supply of this curiously hypertrophied part of the 

 alimentary tract is given oft" close to this vessel. 



In whatever way the blood passes through the walls of the hind 

 gut H. G. ; it finds its way at last to a large vascular trunk marked 

 S, lying on the ventro-anterior face of H. G. This large vessel S 

 is evidently the homologue of the sub-intestinal vein in other fishes. 

 At the anterior end of S large trunks diverge from it, pass around 

 the mid gut and find their way into the liver. These trunks repre- 

 sent the portal system. Little that is noteworthy can be made out 

 from a transparent view in regard to the way in which the blood 

 reaches the heart from the jugulars. Sections indicate that the 

 Cuvierian ducts are very spacious, more so than is represented in 

 the diagram. 



The ventricle of the heart H is well developed with thick muscu- 

 lar walls. The bulbus arteriosus is a simple thickened muscular 

 tube extending forward from H. The homologies and relations of 

 a large trunk ascending obliquely forward and upward, then bend- 

 ing downward and forward, probably meeting its fellow of the 

 opposite side before it traverses the median face of the mid brain is 

 diflacult to determine. A smaller trunk descends from the region 

 over the body toward the eye and prol)ably joins the ophthalmic 

 vessels in that region to finally empty into the basilars and jugulars 

 which pass backward toward the origin of the Cuvierian ducts. 




98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893^ 



The membrane bones of the skull are already fairly well developed, 

 as are, in fact, the membrane bones throughout the body generally. 

 The vertebral rings of the vertebral column are already defined, 

 and are separated from each other by considerable inter-vertebral 

 spaces. Their dorsal and vertical outer margins are gently concave. 

 The ribs, the neural and haemal arches are developed and the com- 

 plicated musculature of the caudal fin is already well marked. The 

 hypural pieces of the caudal are well-developed in cartilage and a 

 partly membranous matrix. The pectoral fins are already well- 

 developed but present as far as I have been able to make out no 

 such vascularization as the others. The ventrals are still small and 

 undeveloped. The lateral line system does not seem to be strongly 

 marked at this stage ; the small round pore behind the eye repre- 

 sents its connection with the exterior. The air bladder is devel- 

 oped and occupies considerable space at the point P in the body 

 cavity. Just in front of the air bladder is a large highly vascular 

 mass representing the Wolffian body or kidney. The glandular 

 portion of the Wolffian body is thus seen to be quite anterior in 

 position. Cross-sections show that Wolffian ducts are present behind 

 the region of the Wolffian body as a pair of simple longitudinal 

 canals. These ducts pass backward parallel with each other as far 

 as the downward flexure of the hind gut H G. At this point they 

 suddenly bend downward and gradually converge so as to meet just 

 before opening to the exterior between the hernia-like protrusion of 

 the lower portion of the hind gut and the anterior margin of the 

 anal fin. 



As already stated the hind gut is very much enlarged in trans- 

 verse diameter, as may be seen from the accompanying figure. 

 Upon being cut open it is found to be filled up with villous or fila- 

 mentous productions of its lining mucous membrane. These villi 

 tend to be flattened, and with the widest portion of their bases 

 extending parallel with respect to each other and in conformity with 

 the length of the intestine. The anal opening A is found on the 

 posterior face of the hernia-like protrusion of the abdominal wall 

 caused by the hypertrophied hind-gut. The mid-gut is separated 

 sharply from the hind-gut by a pyloric constriction just a little 

 below and behind P as shown in the diagram. The mid-gut or 

 gastric portion of the intestinal canal presents no very unusual fea- 

 tures except that its internal face is thrown into parallel longitudi- 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 99 



nal folds, which curve in the direction of the flexure of this part of 

 the intestine which appears to form a loop upon itself. 



The function of the inter-radial and marginal plexuses of capilla- 

 ries of the young of these fishes, as the accompanying figure shows 

 must be in large measure respiratory. The figure shows the maxi- 

 mum proportional development of the vertical fins, but at a stage 

 about twice the length of the one here figured, the vertical fins 

 begin to become reduced in size so as to approximate their rela- 

 tively reduced proportions in the adult. The integuments of the 

 sides of the body now also become highly vascular, which dermal 

 vascularity also seems to disappear before the birth of the young. 

 The great vascular trunks that especially supply the vertical fins 

 with blood, as shown in the figure, also now atrophy in a measure 

 and become subservient only to the nourishment and metabolism of 

 the tissues of the fins. The histological changes in the fins of these 

 young viviparously developed fishes are therefore very great in the 

 course of their sojourn in the ovary of the parent. That the highly 

 vascular fins and the great vascular trunks which supply them, 

 must in a measure subserve a function in such foetal fishes very sim- 

 ilar to that of a placenta in a non-deciduate foetal mammal, there 

 can scarcely be any doubt. 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



INVOLUTION FORM OF THE TUBERCLE BACILLUS AND THE EFFECT 

 OF SUBCUTANEOUS INJECTIONS OF ORGANIC SUB- 

 STANCES ON INFLAMMATIONS. 



By Samuel G. Dixon, M. D. 



Prof. Robert Koch announced in 1882 the discovery of the cause 

 of Tuberculosis. He claimed that consumption was produced by a 

 peculiar hacillus of a special shape. This he described as a rod- 

 shaped micro-organism with rounded ends, either straight or curved, 

 and frequently beaded. This simple form was accejited as a con- 

 stant character until the summer of 1889, when I first observed, in 

 an artificial culture on an Agar Agar glycerin nidus, a slight incli- 

 nation to bud in one or more places along the rod, without the pro- 

 duction of any particular angle, some relations forming an acute 

 while others formed a right or possibly an obtuse angle. A single 

 bud could only be recognized with a high power objective focused 

 and illuminated with particular nicety. The indications, however, 

 were so often repeated in each field as the slide was moved upon 

 the stage of the microscope that I was sufficiently convinced of 

 the presence of branches to review the life-history of the tube in 

 which they were found and to speculate upon the factors likely 

 to have brought about the evident volution. The result was the 

 production of germs with decided branches, some of which were 

 quite as long as the parent rods or stems. This result was jjublished 

 in the Medical News of October 19th, 1889. In 1891, Prof. Allen 

 J. Smith observed branched forms of tubercle bacilli in human 

 sputum. Since then Prof. Klein, Herren Fischel, Mafucci et 

 al., have described the branching of this germ. In the summer of 

 1892 I observed the bacillus in this cycle of life in the liver of the 

 Green Jay of Mexico, Xanthoura liixosa. This discovery, coupled 

 with my observations of 1889, and corroborated by the statements 

 of other scientists, must now compel the bacteriological world to 

 recognize a more complex form of the tubercle bacillus than that 

 observed by the great German bacteriologist in 1882. Since the 

 discovery of the branched form of the tubercle germs in 1889, 

 I have been able to continuously reproduce them on artificial 

 mediums. While the young germs seem to be quite simple in form, 

 appearing in straight rods and rods bent upon themselves, those 

 which have arrived at the age of four weeks, particularly in the 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



presence of an excess of glycerin and in a temperature of 40° C.» 

 become branched. The young bacilli, when introduced into the 

 animal tissues, produce tuberculosis, while the older cultures grad- 

 ually lose their virulence, in all probability owing to their inability 

 to reproduce themselves. This fact indicates that the branched 

 form represents an involution life-cycle of the germ. Notwith- 

 standing the fact, however, that the devitalized, dying or dead ba- 

 cilli cannot produce consumption, they, with their products, effect a 

 decided increase in tubercular inflammation, which inflammatory 

 process even results in necrosis of the tissues. These phenomena 

 led to investigations proving the correctness of the hypothesis first 

 published in my Monograph on Immunity (JNIedical News of Oct. 

 19, 1889) to wit : " It is possible that, by a thorough filtering out of 

 bacilli from tuberculous material, a filtrate might be obtained and 

 attenuated so that by systematic inoculations a change might be 

 produced on living tissues that would enable them to resist viru- 

 lent tubercle bacilli. In this line of experimentation I proved 

 that the presence of the germs was not necessary to produce the 

 hyper-inflammatory condition of the tuberculous tissue but that it 

 was a product of the bacillus that caused the reaction upon the 

 tuberculous animal tissues. .This, since called Tuberculin and 

 introduced into the human economy for the purpose of curing 

 tuberculosis when introduced into animals suffering with artifi- 

 cially produced tuberculosis, often destroyed the condition called 

 consumption and in many cases appeared to produce immunity to 

 the poison of tuberculosis." The process, however, was not quite 

 so successful in animals Avhich had contracted tuberculosis through 

 one of the natural channels. In these cases, tissues surrounding 

 that which was recognized as tuberculous afterward became infected 

 with consumption. While this was and still is discouraging we 

 have good reason to believe that Tuberculin will be permanently 

 established as a remedy for this pathological condition. The toxic 

 albumose causing inflammation of tissues markedly tuberculous, 

 coupled with the fact that it is found in such tissues, led me to inquire 

 whether or not some other constituents of animal tissues, patho- 

 logical or normal, would produce reaction if introduced in excess 

 into the general circulation. This line of experimentation was 

 begun by first using an albumose of the goat, a comparatively 

 immune animal. This material, however, if at all active as a 

 remedial agent in tuberculosis, is so slow in its effects that I have 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



heretofore failed to produce any marked changes. When, however, 

 in the course of my investigations I overloaded the animal system 

 with some of its waste products, Dr. William L. Zuill, M. D., D. 

 V. S., who has kindly carried on the clinical work on animals for 

 our Bacteriological Laboratory, reported in the Times and Register 

 of Sept. 26th, 1891, a reaction by the Amide group on inflamma- 

 tory tissues, the animals experimented on being tuberculous. As 

 this group included that which we believe to produce the inflamma- 

 tion of gout, I was led to review my experience with tuberculosis in 

 relation to lithemia. Studying this field with the lithemic and 

 tuberculous habits in view I was soon impressed with the fact that 

 when these diseased conditions were present at the same time in any 

 individual we could claim it to be an exception to the rule. 



To determine the special action of the Amide group upon 

 inflamed tissues when introduced into the circulation, a case of 

 Lupus vulgaris was selected and first treated by the subcutaneous 

 introduction of .03240 Gm. of Kreatinin, alternated twice weekly 

 with .130 Gm. of Taurin, Urea and Uric acid. The average tem- 

 perature during treatment was slightly raised, though not to any 

 very marked degree, under the influence of such small doses. The 

 more recent patches of Lupus, however, became markedly inflamed, 

 being accompanied with a burning sensation. On the third day 

 after the first injection, a marked granulation could be detected 

 around the outer edge by the aid of a strong amplifying pocket 

 glass. This apparently healthy granulation has continued for ten 

 days, in which time the patch has one half of its original area 

 healed. The result shown at this early stage of the experiment is 

 sufficiently encouraging to warrant not only a continuation of the 

 treatment in this case but in other forms of Tuberculosis. The only 

 other subjects upon which these injections have been tried have been 

 cases of pulmonary tuberculosis in a very advanced stage, where 

 there was too much lung-tissue already destroyed to warrant the 

 expectation of a favorable result. The fact that we apparently 

 have an action on the Lupus and no marked result with small 

 doses on advanced cases of pulmonary tuberculosis causes me to 

 realize that the line of experimentation must not be confined to 

 tuberculous inflammation but extended to the action of these 

 organic substances on the entire group of inflammatory growths, 

 the effect being produced, possibly, by supplying that in which the 

 pathological tissues are deficient. This line of inquiry, which had 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



its origin in the Bacteriological Laboratory of the Academy, has 

 opened up a new and wide field of important scientific medical 

 investigation. The main object of this communication, at this time, 

 is to confirm the original discovery of the branched form of the 

 tubercle bacillus by recording the observations of the same life- 

 cycle of that micro-organism found in animal tissues. I have, how- 

 ever, ventured to advance theories and results regarding the action 

 of substances far removed from the bacillus, because they were 

 suggested during my studies of the branched form of that organism. 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



CATALOGUE OF THE CRUSTACEANS IN THE MUSEUM OF THE ACAD- 

 EMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



BY DR. BEXJ. SHARP. 



According to the catalogue of Professor Lewis R. Gibbes, of 

 Charleston, S. C, published in the Proceedings of the Academy for 

 1850 (p. 22 to 30), the collection of Crustacea contained one hundred 

 and seventy-five (175) species. 



In 1851, additions were made by Mr. McAndrews and Messrs 

 E. & C. Wilson. In this year Dr. T. B. Wilson presented the col- 

 lection of Guerin-Meneville, consisting of 413 species (1,482 speci- 

 mens). Thev were classified and catalogued by Dr. R. Bridges, 

 and the collection now contained 980 species (2,054 specimens). 



In 1852, Edward Wilson, Esq., presented 54 species from Great 

 Britain, and Dr. T. B. Wilson presented 282 species of the Guerin 

 Collection. About 64 species were presented during the year 

 from M. J. Verreaux, of Paris, and Messrs E. Wilson, S. Ashmead, 

 J. Le Conte and others. 



In 1855, Mr. S. Ashmead presented 34 species. 



In 1856, 65 species (358 specimens) were received from Messrs 

 W. S. Wilson, S. Ashmead, Davidson and others. 



In 1857, 15 species were received from Dr. W. Stimpson from the 

 West Coast of America, and 30 species from Drs. W. S. W. 

 Ruschenberger and Hammond and Mr. Pease. 



In 1858, Mr. W. J. Taylor, Dr, J. L. Le Conte and others, pre- 

 sented 15 species, and Mr. Slack 22 species. 



In the beginning of the year 1860 the collection contained about 

 1,000 species. 



In 1861, the Smithsonian Institution presented 55 species, and G. 

 Davidson 12. 



In 1864, the Smithsonian Institution presented 62 species, mostly 

 collected by Dr. Wm. Stimpson of the North Pacific Exploring 

 Expedition. 



In 1872, a collection was presented by Wm. ]\[. Gabb, from San 

 Domingo. 



In 1873, a fine collection in alcohol from the Fiji Islands was 

 presented by Mr. A. J. Garrett. 



In 1875, many species were presented by Dr. Wm. H. Jones, of 

 the United States Navy, and during this year the collection was 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 1 OS- 



relabeled and mounted by Messrs C. F. Parker and G. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Since 1875 but little has been done to the Carcinological Collec- 

 tion of the Academy and many specimens from want of care have 

 been damaged. In 1878, Mr. J. S. Kingsley worked over the 

 Crangonidae and some of the families of the Brachyura, and later 

 Mr. Walter Faxon renamed the Astacidae of the collection. 



A few species were added to the collection by the Bermuda and 

 Mexican expeditions of the Academy. 



During the last three or four years Mr. Frederick E. Stearns 

 has added a number of specimens from the Bahamas and West 

 Coast of the United States. 



In the following catalogue the first number under a species refers 

 to the tray or jar in which the specimen or specimens are placed ;. 

 the second number, in brackets, to the number of specimens cata- 

 logued under the first number : a, meaning alcoholic and d, dried ; 

 thus (2d) means two dried specimens, and (xa) more than ter> 

 alcoholic specimens. 



STOMATOPODA. 



SQUILLIDAE Latreille. 

 GONODACTYLUS Latreille, 1825. 



G. EDWARDsii Berthold, 1847. 

 O. japoniciis DeHaan, 1849. 



Habitat. Pacific coasts. 



23. (Id) China. Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



24. (Id) Chili. Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



G. FALCATUS (Forskael, 1775). 

 Cancer falcatus Forskael, 1775. 

 Squilla chiragra Fabricius, 1793. 

 G. chiragra Latreille, 1825, and authors. 



Habitat. All seas. 



25. (3d) Bahamas. Dr. H. C. Wood, Jr. 



26. (Id) Key West, Florida. S. Ashmead. 



27. (2d) West Indies. Dr. Morton. 



50. (8a) Garden Key, Florida. Smithsonian Institution; 

 51 & 52. (3a & la). No locality. Smithsonian InstitutioniL 



53. (la) Bermuda. Heilprin Collection, 1888. 



54. (xa) Tahiti. A. J. Garrett. 



57. (5a) Lower California. W. N. Lockington. 

 111. (3d) Mauritius. Dr. T. B. Wilson. 




106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1893. 



. LTSIOSQUILLA Dana, 1852. 



Coronis Latreille, 1825 (name pre-occupied). 



L. GLABRIU8CULA (Lamarck, 1818). 

 Squilla glabriuscula Lamarck, 1818. 

 Squilla viltata H. Milne-Edwards, 1837. 



Habitat. Eastern coast of North America. 



18. (Id) Key West, Florida. S. Ashmead. 



37. (la) Hilton Head, South Carolina. J. J. Craven. 

 49. (la) No locality. Smithsonian Institution. 



L. MACULATA (Fabricius, 1793). 

 Squilla maculata Fabricius, 1793. 

 Cancer arenarius Herbst, 1796. 



Habitat. Indo-Pacific region. 



19. (2d) Sandwich Islands. J. K. Townsend. 



46. (la) Oahu, Sandwich Islands. Dr. W. H. Jones. 



L. scABRiCAUDA (Lamarck, 1818). 

 Squilla scabrieauda Lamarck, 1818. 

 Squilla hoeveni Herklots, 1851. 

 L. inornata Dana, 1852. 



Habitat. Eastern coast of America. 

 20 & 21. (Id & 2d) Key West, Florida. S. Ashmead. 

 22. (Id) Brazil. Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



44. (2a) No locality. No donor's name. 



45. (la) West Indies. Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



47. (la) No locality. Dr. T. B. AVilson. 



PSETJDOSQUILLA Dana, 1852. 



P. cERisii (Roux, 1828). 

 Squilla eerisii Roux, 1828. 

 Squilla hroadbenti Coco, 1833. 



Habitat. Mediterranean. 



30. (la) Algiers. Guerin Collection. 

 P. ciLiATA (Fabricius, 1793). 



Squilla ciliata Fabricius, 1793. 



Squilla stylifera Lamarck, 1818. 



P. stylifera Dana, 1 852. 



Squilla quadrispino.^a, Miers, 1880. 



Habitat. Indo-Pacific region. 



15. (5d) Sandwich Islands. Nuttall & Townsend. 



16. (Id) Peru. Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger. 



28. (la) Mauritius. Guerin Collection. 



29. (6a) Oahu, Sandwich Islands. Dr. W. H. Jones. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCKS OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



36. (2a) No locality. Smithsonian Institution. 



55. (2a) Tahiti. A. J. Garrett. 



P. LESSONii (Guerin, 1830), (type No. 4). 

 Squilla cerisii Gueriu, 1830. 

 Squilla lessonii, Guerin, 1830. 

 Squilla spinifrons Owen, 1832. 

 Squilla monoceros H. Milne-Edwards, 1837. 

 P. marmorata Lockington, 1877. 



Habitat. Indo-Pacific region. 



4. (Id) Mauritius. Guerin Collection (Guerin's type). 

 10, 11 & 12 (Id, la. Id) Chili. Gueriu Collection. 

 17. (Id) Peru. Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger. 



P. MONODACTYLA (A. Milne-Edwards, 1878.) 

 Squilla monodactyla A. Milne-Edwards, 1878. 



Habitat. Pacific region. 



56. (la) Lat. 6° North ; Long. 166° West. Dr. W. H. Jones. 



P. STYLiFERA (H. Milue-Edwards, 1837). 



Gonodadylus sty lifer us H, Milne-Edwards, 1837. 



Habitat. Pacific region. 



13. (Id) Chili. Guerin Collection, 



14. (Id) Sandwich Islands. J. K. Townsend. 



58, (la) Valpariso, Chili. Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger. 



SQUILLA Fabricius, 1798. 

 including 

 Chlorida Edyoux & Souleyet, 1841 (name pre-occupied). 

 Chloridella Miers, 1880. 



S. DESMARESTII RisSO, 1816. 



Habitat. Seas of Europe. 



1. (4d) Mediterranean. Guerin Collection. 



S. DUBiA. H. Milne-Edwards, 1837. 

 S. mantis Desmarest, 1825. 

 S. ruhrolineala Dana, 1852. 



Habitat. Eastern coast of America. 



9. (Id) Trinidad, B. W. I. Dr. Samuel Lewis. 

 S. EMPUSA Say, 1818 (? No. 2 type). 

 Habitat. Atlantic region. 



2. (3d) Rhode Island. W. E. Halloway (probably Say's type). 



8. (Id) Gulf of Mexico. C.Bryan. 

 31. (la) New Bedford, Mass. J. H. Thompson. 




108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893^ 



32. (la) No locality. Smithsonian Institution. 



33. (la) Hilton Head, South Carolina. J. J. Craven. 



34. (la) Beaufort, North ('arolina. E. D. Cope. 



35. (la) No locality. J. Walton. 



39. ('ia) South America. No donor's name. 

 S. MANTIS Latreille, 1802. 

 Habitat. European Seas. 



6. (3d) Mediterranean. Guerin Collection. 



S. NEPA Latreille, 1825. 

 S. affinis Berthold, 1847. 

 S. oratoria DeHaan, 1849. 

 S. laevis Hess, 1865. 



Habitat. Indo-Pacific region. 



3. (2d) No locality. No donor's name. 



7. (3d) China. Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



40 & 43. (3a & 2a) No locality. Smithsonian Institution. 



41. (2a) Oahu, Sandwich Islands. Dr. W. H. Jones. 



42. (la) Malacca. Guerin Collection. 



S. PRASiNOLiNEATA Dana, 1852. 

 S. dufres7iii Miers, 1880. 



Habitat. East coast of tropical America. 



48. (la) Silam, Yucatan. Mexican Expedition (^(Ze Ives, 1891)^ 



S. RAPHiDEA Fabricius, 1798. 



S. mantis var. B major Lamarck, 1818. 

 S. harpax DeHaan, 1849. 



Habitat. Indo-Pacific region. 



5. (Id) India. Guerin Collection. 



38. (la) Malacca. Guerin Collection. 



Numbers 101 to 110 inclusive, are alcoholic specimens of Stoma- 

 topod larvae collected by Dr. W. H. Jones in Central and Eastern 

 Pacific, as far North as Latitude 50°. 



PENAEIDEA. 



PENAEIDAE Sp. Bate, 1886. 



PENAEUS Fabricius, 1798. 



P. BRASiLiENSis Latreille, 1817. 

 P. brevirostris Kingsley, 1878. 



Habitat. Atlantic region. 



59. (xa) West coast of Florida. Heilprin Collection, 1886 (^de^ 

 Ives, 1891). 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 109 



60. (2a) St. Martin, D. W. I. Dr. J. van Rijgersma. 



63. (5a) San Domingo, West Indies. W. M. Gabb. 



64. (2a) Anclote Bay, Florida. Heilprin Collection, 1886 (fide 

 Ives, 1891.) 



65. (la) Sand Key, Florida. Heilprin Collection, 1886. 



66. (2a) Cat Island, Bahamas. Smithsonian Institution. 



69. (3a) Rio Janiero, Brazil. Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger. 

 78. (2a) San Domingo, West Indies. No donor's name. 



P. BRAsiLiENSis AZTECUs Ives, 1891. (No. 61 types.) 

 Habitat, East coast of Mexico. 



61. (xa) Vera Cruz, Mexico. Mexican Expedition, 1890 (Ives* 

 type). 



62. (la) Vera Cruz, Mexico. Mexican Expedition, 1890. 

 P. BREVicoRNis H. Milne-Edwards, 1837 (No. 365 type). 

 Habitat. Indo-Pacific region. 



365. (Id) Bombay, India. Guerin Collection (H. Milne-Edwards' 

 type). 



P. cANALicuLATUs (Olivier, 1811). 

 Palaemon canaliculatus Olivier, 1811. 

 P. marginaius Randall, 1839. 

 P.plebejus Hess, 1865. 



Habitat. Indo-Pacific region and Red Sea. 



70. (la) Sandwich Islands. Nuttall & Townsend. 



71. (4a) Mauritius. Guerin Collection. 



P. CRASsicoRNis H. Milne-Edwards, 1837 (? No. 366 type.) 

 Habitat. Indian Region. 



366, (Id) Bombay, India. Guerin Collection. 

 P. iNDicus H. Milne-Edwards, 1837. 

 Habitat. Indian region. 



77. (la) No locality. Smithsonian Institution. 



P. KERATHURUS (Forskael, 1775). 

 Cancer kerathurus Forskael, 1775. 

 Palaemon sulcatus Olivier, 1811. 

 P. trisulcatus Leach, 1815. 

 Alpheus caramote Risso, 1816. 

 P. caramote Desmarest 1825, and authors. 



Habitat. Seas of Europe. 



72. (2a) Greece. Dr. T. B, Wilson, 

 863. (Id) Algiers. Guerin Collection. 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



P, MEMBRANACEUS RlsSO, 1816. 



P. longirostris Lucas, 1849 (No. 145, probably type). 

 P. bocagei Johnson, 1863. 



Habitat. Mediterranean. 



145. (la) Algiers. Guerin Collection (? Lucas' type of P. long- 

 irodi-is). 

 P. MONOCEROS Fabricius, 1798. 



Habitat. Indian region. 



360. (Id) Bombay, India. Guerin Collection. 



P. MONODOv Fabricius, 1798. 



Habitat. Indo-Pacific region. 



74. (la) Mauritius. Guerin Collection. 



P. SETiFERus (Linnaeus, 1766). 

 Cancer setiferus Linnaeus, 1766. 

 Palaemon setiferus Olivier, 1811. 

 P. orbignyainis Latreille, 1817. 

 P. Jiuviatilis Say, 1817. 



Habitat. East coast of America. 



67. (2a) Hilton Head, South Carolina. J. J. Craven. 



68. (2a) New Orleans, Louisiana. Dr. Walker. 



75 & 76. (la & 2a) No locality. Smithsonian Institution. 



361. (Id) Cuba, West Indies. Gu6rin Collection. 



362. (2d) Charleston, South Carolina. Dr. W. Blanding. 



P. sTYLiROSTRis Stimpson, 1871. 



P. occidentalis Streets, 1871 (No. 73 type). 



Habitat. East Coast of Central America. 



73. (xa) Panama. McNeil Expedition (Streets' type). 

 P. viLLOSUS Guerin, 1830 (No. 79 type). 

 Habitat. Pacific region. 



79. (la) New Ireland. Guerin Collection (Guerin's type). 

 SICYONIA H. Milne-Edwards, 1830. 

 S. SCDLPTA H. Milne-Edwards, 1830. 

 Habitat. Atlantic region and Mediterranean. 



100. (la) Hilton Head, South Carolina. J. J. Craven. 



SERGESTIDAE Sp. Bate, 1886. 

 SERGESTES H. Milne-Edwards 1830. 

 S. ARCTicus Kroeyer, 1855. 

 Habitat. North Atlantic. 



112. (la) Lat. 40° 16' 30" North ; Long. 67° 26' 15" West— 828 

 fathoms. Smithsonian Institution. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



EUCYPHIDEA. 



PASIPHAEIDAE Sp. Bate, 1886. 

 PASIPHaiA Savigny, 1818. 



P. sivADO (Risso, 1816). 

 Alpheus sivado Risso, 1816. 

 P. savignyi H. Milne-Edwards, 1837. 

 P. brevirostris H. Milne-Edwards, 1837. 



Habitat. West coast of Europe and Mediterranean, 

 364. (Id) Nice, France. Guerin Collection. 



ATYIDAE Kingsley, 1878. 

 ATYA Leach, 1817. 



Atys Leach, 1815 (name pre-occupied). 



including 



Atyoida Randall, 1839. 



A. BisuLCATA (Randall, 1839) (No. 231 type). 

 Atyoida bisulcata Randall, 1839. 



Habitat. Sandwich Islands. 



162. (xa) Oahu, Sandwich Islands. Dr. W. H. Jones. 



231. (Id) Sandwich Islands. T. Nuttall (Randall's type, dam- 

 aged). 



A. SCABRA Leach, 1815. 



Habitat. East coast of tropical America. 



229. (Id) Mexico. W. Stirapson. 



230. (Id) Martinique, Fr. W. I. Guerin Collection. 



CAEIDINA H. Milne -Edwards, 1837. 

 Caradina Kingsley, 1879. 

 C. AFRiCANA Kingsley, 1882 (No. 163 type). 

 Habitat. Zulu-land, South Africa. 



163. (xa) Zulu-land, South Africa. S. A. Grout (Kingsley's 

 types). 



C. LONGiROSTRis H. Milnc-Edwards, 1837. 

 Habitat. Mediterranean. 



233. (Id) Algiers. Guerin Collection. 

 C. TYPUS H. Milne-Ed^vards, 1837. 



Caradina typus Kingsley, 1879. 

 Habitat. Indo-Pacific Region. 



232. (Id) Mauritius. Guerin Collection. 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



ALPHEIDAE Sp. Bate, 1886. 

 ALOPE White, 1847. 

 A. PALPiPES White, 1847. 

 Habitat. New Zealand and Australia. 



234 (Id) New Zealand. Dr. T. B. Wilson. 

 ALPHEUS Fabricius, 1878. 

 including, 

 €ryptophthalmus Rafinesque, 1814. 

 Asphalius Roux, 1831. 

 Dienecia Westwood, 1835. 

 Haplopsyche Saussure, 1857. 

 Alpheoides Paulson, 1880. 



A. BELLiMANUS Lockington, 1876. 

 Habitat. Coast of California. 



118. (3a) San Diego, California. Joseph Jeans. 



A. BREViROSTRis (Olivier, 1811). 

 Palaemon brevirostris Olivier, 1811. 

 Asphalius brevirostris Roux, 1831. 

 A. malabaricus Hilgendorf, 1878. 



Habitat. Indo-Pacific region. 



245. (3d) Yanaon, French India. Guerin Collection. 



•246. (Id) Manilla. Dr. Burrough. 

 A. DENTiPES Guerin, 1832 (No. 239 type). 

 Habitat. Mediterranean. 



239. (Id) Nice, France. Guerin Collection (Guerin's type). 

 A. DOTO Miers, 1878. 

 Habitat. Australia. 



237. (Id) Australia. Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



A. EDWARDSii Audouin, 1810 (?). 

 ? A. monodon Bosc. 1801. 

 A. pacificus Dana, 1852. 

 A. edivardsii var leviusculus Dana, 1852. 

 A. avariis Sp. Bate, 1887. 

 A. leviusculus (Dana, 1852) Sp. Bate, 1887. 



Habitat. Tropical seas. 



129. (xa) Bermuda. Heilprin Collection, 1888. 

 135. (la) No locality. W. N. Lockington. 

 250. (Id) Australia. Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



A. HETEROCHELES Say, 1818 (? No. 240 type). 

 A.armillatus H. Milne-Edwards, 1837. 

 Haplopsyche lutaria Saussure, 1857. 




11893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



A. lutaria Saussure, 1858. 



A. hispinosus Streets, 1872 (No. 134 type). 



A. equidactijlns Lockington, 1877. 



Habitat. East coast of America. 



133. (2a) Silam, Yucatan. Mexican Expedition, 1890 {fide 

 Ives, 1891). 



134. (4a) Panama. McNeill Expedition (Streets' types, A. 

 hispinosus.'). 



240. (Id) No locality. Thomas Say (probably Say's type — 

 damaged). 



241. (2d) No locality. Smithsonian Institution. 



242. (2d) No locality. No donor's name. 

 -A. LAEviGATUs Guerin, 1830 (No. 251 type). 

 Habitat. Pacific region. 



251. (5d) Timor. Gueria Collection (Guerin's type — damaged). 

 A. LOTTiNii Guerin, 1830 (No. 249 type)\ 

 A. ventrosus, H. Milne-Edwards, 1837. 

 A. laevis Randall, 1839 (No. 247 type). 

 Aljj/ieoides laevis Kossmann, 1880. 



Habitat. Indo-Pacific. 



115. (xa) No locality (probably from S. Pacific). No donor's 

 name. 



131. (2a) ? Japan. Smithsonian Institution. 



247. (Id) Sandwich Islands. T. Nuttall (Randall's type of A, 

 laevis). 



249. (Id) Mauritius. Guerin Collection (Guerin's type). 

 .A. MALLEATOR Dana, 1852. 

 Habitat. Brazil. 



116 & 243. (la & 2d). No locality. Smithsonian Institution. 



244. (Id) Brazil. Wilkes' Expedition. 



A. MEGACHELES (Hailstone, 1835). 



Hippolyte rubra Westwood, 1835 (not A. ruber H. Milne- 

 Edwards, 1837. 

 Hippolifte megacheles Hailstone, 1835. 

 Dienecia rubra Westwood, 1835. 

 A. edivardsii H. Milne-Edwards, 1837 (not A. edwardsii of 



Audouin). 

 A. affijiis Guise, 1854. 

 A. milnei Guerin, 1857. 

 A. platyrhynchus Heller, 1862. 

 Cryptophthahnus ruber Costa, 1846. 



'See J. S. Kingsley. Bull. Essex. Inst. Vol. XIV. 1882, p. 113. 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Habitat. Seas of Europe. 



130. (3a) Villa Franca, France. Dr. B. Sharp, 1882. 



A. MINUS Say, 1818. 



A.formosus Gibbes, 1851. 



A. tridentulatns Dana, 1852. 



A. saulcyi Guerin, 1857 (No. 236 type). 



A. minor Lockiugton, 1878. 



Habitat. East coast of America. 



117. (xa) Bermuda. Heilprin Collection, 1888. 



236. (Id) Martinique. Guerin Collection (Guerin's type, A. 

 saulcyi). 



248. (5d) No locality. Smithsonian Institution. 



1006. (la) Port Antonio, Jamaica. W. J. Fox. 

 ? A. NOVAE-zELANDiAE Micrs, 1876. 

 Habitat. New Zealand. 



252. (2d) New Zealand. No donor's name. 



A. POEYI Guerin, 1857 (No. 235 type). 

 A. floridianus Kingsley, 1878. 



Habitat. West Indian region. 



235. (Id) Cuba. Guerin Collection (Guerin's type). 

 A. siNuosus Guerin, 1857 (No. 388 type). 

 Habitat. West coast of South America. 



388. (Id) Callao, Peru. Guerin Collection (Guerin's type). 

 A. THETIS Miers, 1875. 

 Habitat. Pacific region. 



238. (2d) New Zealand. Dr. T. B. Wilson {iide Kingsley, 1882). 

 ATHANAS Leach, 1815. 

 A. NiTESCENs Leach, 1815. 



Palaemon nitescens Leach, 1815. 



Arete diocletiana Heller, 1862. 



Arete nitescens Heller, 1863. 



Habitat. Seas of Europe. 



253. (id) Coast of France. Guerin Collection. 



PANDALIDAB Sp. Bate, 1886. 

 PANDALTJS Leach, 1815. 

 P. ANNULicoRNis Leach, 1815. 

 p. leavigatus Stimpson, 1854. 

 P. montagui Smith, 1879. 



Habitat. Circumpolar and North Atlantic. 



139. (3a) Lat. 46°, 23' N. ; Long. 52°, 45' W. U. S. Fish Com- 

 mission, 1885. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



140. (xa) Massachusetts Bay. U. S. Fish Commission. 



141. (xa) Salem, Massachusetts. Dr. T. H. Streets. 



142. (4a) Halifax, Nova Scotia. Dr. T. H. Streets. 



255. (2d) Belfast Bay, Ireland. W. Thompson (in exchange). 

 P. BOREALis Kroeyer, 1838. 

 Habitat. Circumpolar and North Atlantic. 



137. (3a) Salem, Massachusetts, 50 fathoms. Dr. T. H. Streets. 



138. (4a) Massachusetts Bay, 40-55 fathoms. U. S. Fish Com- 

 mission. 



P. DANAE Stimpson, 1854. 



Habitat. Northwest coast of America. 



144. (3a) Marmot Isle, Alaska (45 fathoms). Dr. W. H. Jones. 



254. (Id) Coast of Oregon. AV. Stimpson. 

 P. LEPTOCERUS Smith, 1881. 

 Habitat. North Atlantic. 



143. (4a) Lat. 41°, 48', 45" N., Long. 65°, 47', 00" W. 85 

 fathoms; U. S. Fish Commission, 1885. 



P. PROPiNQuus G. O. Sars, 1869. 

 Habitat, North Atlantic. 



136. (2a) Off Martha's Vineyard, 390 fathoms. U. S. Fish 

 Commission. 



HIPPOLYTIDAE Sp. Bate, 1886. 

 HIPPOLYSMATA Stimpson, 1860. 

 H. WURDEMANNI (Gibbes, 1850). 

 Hippolyte umrdemanni Gibbes, 1850. 



Habitat. Coasts of Florida. 



164. (3a) Pt. Pinellas, Tampa Bay, Florida. Heiiprin Collec- 

 tion, 1886 (fide Ives, 1891). 



HIPPOLYTE Leach, 1815. 



H. CRANCHii Leach, 1815. 



Palaemon viicroramphos Risso, 1816. 

 ff. erasdcornis H. Milne-Edwards, 1837. 

 H. yarelli Thompson, 1853. 



Habitat. European seas. 



258. (2d) Rochelle, France. Guerin Collection. 



259. (xd) Pembrokeshire, Wales. E. Wilson. 

 H. FABRicii Kroeyer, 1842. 



Habitat. North Atlantic. 



166. (4a) Salem, Massachusetts. Dr. T. H. Streets. 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



167 & 264. (4a & 3d) No locality. Smithsonian Institution. 

 265. (Id) Coast of Massachusetts. Dr. T, H, Streets. 



H. GAiMARDii H. Milne-Edwards, 1837. 

 H. gibba Kroeyer, 1842. 



Habitat. Circumpolar. 



150. (la) Lat. 46°, 09', 30" N., Long. 49°, 48', 30" W. 39 fathoms; 

 U. S. Fish Commission, 1885. 



155. (4a) Spitzenbergen. Guerin Collection (Guerin mss. type, 

 H. Roberta) . 



257. (Id) Maine coast. Dr. J. H. Slack. 

 H. GiBBEROSus H. Milnc-Edwards, 1837. 



H. gibbosus Dana, 1852. 

 Habitat. Pacific region. 



165. (la) Oahu, Sandwich Islands. Dr. W. H. Jones, 1874. 



175. (2a) ? South Pacific. No donor's name. 



H. GROENLANDicA (J. C. Fabricius, 1775). 

 Astacus groenlandica J. C. Fabricius, 1775. 

 Cancer aculeatus O. Fabricius, 1780. 

 Aljyhens aculeatus Sabine, 1821. 

 H. aeuleata Owen, 1835. 

 H. ai-niata Owen, 1839. 

 If. cornuta Owen, 1839. 



Habitat. Circumpolar. 



151. (3a) Marmot Isles, Alaska, 45 fathoms. Dr. W. H. Jones. 



152. (la) No locality. No donor's name. 



153. (la) Godhaab, Greenland. Dr. Hayes' Expedition. 



H. LiLLjEBORGii Danielssen, 1861. 

 H. securifrons Norman, 1863. 



Habitat. North Atlantic. 



146. (la) Lat. 42°, 41', 00" N., Long. 64°, 55', 30" W. 62 fathoms ; 

 U. S. Fish Commission, 1885. 

 H. LiNEATA Lockington, 1876. 

 Habitat. Coast of California. 



174. (3a) San Diego, California. Joseph Jeans. 



H. MARMORATA (Olivier, 1811). 



Palaemon marmoratus Olivier, 1811. 

 Alpheus marmoratus Lamarck, 1818. 



Habitat. Pacific region. 



148. (la) Samoan Islands. J. S. Kingsley (in exchange). 

 161. (2a) ? South Pacific. No donor's name. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. IIT 



263. (3d) Sandwich Islands. T. Nuttall. 

 H. MACiLENTA Ktoeyer, 1840. 

 Habitat. North Atlantic. 



171. (la) Lat. 47°, 21', 00" N., Long. 51°, 38', 30" W. 81 fathoms r 

 U. S. Fish Commissiou, 1885. 



172. (2a) No locality. Dr. T. H. Streets. 



256. (3d) Halifax, Nova Scotia. Dr. T. H. Streets. 



H. PHipPsii Kroeyer, 1840. 

 H. turgida Kroeyer, 1840. 

 H. ochotensis Brandt, 1849. 

 H. vibrans Stimpson, 1871. 



Habitat. Circumpolar and North Atlantic. 



147. (la) Cape Cod, Mass, 90 fathoms. U. S. Fish Commission.. 

 266. (2d) Salem, Mass. Dr. T. H. Streets. 



H. POLARIS (Sabine, 1821). 

 Alpheiis polaris Sabine, 1821. 



Habitat. Circumpolar and North Atlantic. 

 154. (3a) Salem, Mass. Dr. T. H. Streets. 



260. (Id) Arctic Ocean. No donor's name. 

 H. PRiONOTA Stimpson, 1864. 



Habitat. North Pacific. 



393. (2a) Marmot Isles, Alaska, 45 fathoms. Dr. W. H. Jones.- 

 H. PUSiOLA Kroeyer, 1842. 

 Habitat. North Atlantic. 



149 & 262. (2a & 4d) No locality. Smithsonian Institution. 



261. (Id) Halifax, Nova Scotia. Dr. T. H. Streets. 

 H. TAYLORi Stimpson, ] 857. 



Habitat. Pacific coast of United States. 



173. (3a) Santa Cruz, California. J. S. Kingsley (in exchange)^ 



LYSMATA Risso, 1826. 



Melicerta Risso, 1816 (name preoccupied). 



L. SETiCAUDA (Risso, 1816). 

 Melicerta seticauda Risso, 1816. 



Habitat. Mediterranean, Japan, Amboina. 

 271. (2d) Nice, France. Guerin Collection. 

 SPIRONTOCARIS Sp. Bate, 1887. 



S. SPiNUS (Sowerby, 1806). 

 Cancer sjnnus Sowerby, 1806. 




118 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Alpheiis spiniis Leach, 1815. 

 Hippolyte son-erbaei Leach, 1815. 

 Hippolyte spinu-s Owen, 1835. 



Habitat. North Atlantic. 



156 & 267. (6a & Id) No locality. Smithsonian Institution. 



157. (8a) Salem, Mass. Dr. T. H. Streets. 



158. (7a) Coast of Maine, Dr. J. H. Slack. 



159. (la) Bay of Fundy, 10-20 fathoms. U.S. Fish Commission. 



160. (8a) Marmot Isle, Alaska, 45 fathoms. Dr. "NV. H. Jones. 



VIEBIUS Stimpson, 1860. 



V. TARiANS (Leach, 1815). 

 Sippolyte varian-s Leach, 1815. 

 Hippolyte smaragdina Kroeyer, 1842. 



Habitat. European seas. 



268. (7d) France. Guerin Collection. 



V. viRiDis (Otto, 1828). 

 Alpheus viridi-s Otto, 1828. 

 Hippolyte hrullei Guerin (Xo. 269 type). 

 Hippolyte viridi-s H. Milne-Edwards, 1837. 

 Hippolyte m<iuritanicu-s Lucas, 1849. 

 T'^ hrullei Czerniawsky, 1884. 



Habitat. Mediterranean and Black Sea. 



269. (Id) Coast of Morea. Guerin Collection (Guerin's type of 

 H brullei). 



RHINCOCYNETIDAE Ortman, 1890. 

 RHINOCOCYNETES H. Milne-Edwards, 1837. 



R. TYPUS H. Milne-Edwards, 1837. 

 Habitat. Indo-Pacific and Red Sea. 



168. (2a) Red Sea. Guerin Collection. 



169. (4a) ZSTo locality. Smithsonian Institution. 



170. (2a) Chili. Wilkes' Expedition. 



270. (2d) Chili. Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



272. (Id) Xew Zealand. Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



PONTONIIDAE Sp. Bate, 1887. 

 ANCHISTIA Dana, 1852. 

 A GEANDis Stimpson, 1860. 

 Habitat. Coast of China. 



176. (xa) Xo locality. No donor's name. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 119 



POirrOlfIA LatreiUe, 1829. 

 Coiu-hodyt-es Peters, 1852. 

 P. ap.m;ata H. Milne-Edwards, 1837. 

 Habitat. Xew Ireland and Cuba. 

 344. (Id) Cuba. Guerin Collection. 



P. cusTOS (Forskael, 1775). 

 Cancer custom Forskael, 1775. 

 Astacus tifrrhenus Petagna, 1792. 

 Alpheus tyrrh^nu.^ Risso, 1816. 

 Gnathophyllum tyrrhenus Desmarest, 1825. 

 P. tyrrhena Latreille, 1825. 

 Calliaruissa thyrrhenus Risso, 1826. 

 Alpheus pinnoplax Otto, 1828. 



Habitat. Mediterranean. 



177. (xa) Greece. Guerin Collection. 



TYPTON Costa, 1844. 



Pontonella Heller, 1856. 



T. spoNGicoLA Costa, 1844. 

 Pontonella glabra Heller, 1856. 

 T. spongiosis Sp. Bate, 1 868. 



Habitat. Mediterranean. 



178. (la) Villa Franca, France. Dr. B. Sharp, 1882. 



HYMENOCERIDAE Ortmann, 1890. 

 HYMENOCERA Latreille, 1829. 

 H. LATREiLLii Guerin (No. 367 type). 

 Habitat. Indian region. 



367. (Id) Agalega, Seychelles. Guerin Collection (type). 



PALAEMONIDAE Sp. Bate, 1887. 

 BITHYITIS Philippi, 1860. 



P. GAumcHAUDH (Olivier, 1791). 

 Palaevfvon gaudk-houdii Olivier, 1791. 

 Palaenwn coemerdarug Poeppig, 1836. 

 Biihynis longimana Philippi, 1860. 

 Ma^robrachium africanmn Sp. Bate, 1868. 



Habitat. Rivers of Chili and Peru. 

 98. (la) Chili. Guerin Collection. 

 359. (Id) Peru. Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger. 



LEAITDES Desmarest, 1849. 



L. ADSPERSUS (Rathke, 1837). 

 PaZaemon adspereus Rathke, 1837. 




120 PROCEEDINGS OF TRj3 ACADEMY OF [1893^ 



Palaemon squilla (part) H. Milne-Edwards, 1837. 

 Palaemon fahricii Rathke, 1848. 

 Palaevion rectirostru Zaddach, 1844, 

 Palaemon leachii Bell, 1853. 

 L. rectirostris Heller, 1863. 



Habitat. European seas. 



128. (la) Liberia. No donor's name. 

 L. DEBiLis Dana, 1852. 

 Habitat. Indo-Pacific. 



395. (xa) Oahu, Sandwich Islands. Smithsonian Institution. 



L. NATATOR (H. Milne-Edwards, 1837). 

 Palaemon natator H. Milne-Edwards, 1837. 

 Palaemon latirostris DeHaan, 1849. 

 L. erraticns Desmarest, 1849. 

 Palaemon tenuirostris (Say) Carus, 1884. 



Habitat. On weed in all seas. 



126. (xa) Lat. 23°, 53' N.; Long. 53°, 06' W. Dr. W. H^ 



Jones. 

 132. (xa) Lat. 24°, 26' N.; Long. 34°, 32', W. Dr. W. H. 



Jones. 



345. (2d) Atlantic Ocean. Guerin Collection. 



346. (2d) Antilles. Guerin Collection. 



L. SERRATUS (Pennant, 1777.) 

 Astacus serratns Pennant, 1777. 

 Cancer squilla Herbst, 1796. 

 Palaemon serratus Fabricius, 1798. 

 Palaemon squilla Latreille, 1806. 



Habitat. European seas. 



119. (xa) British. No donor's name. 



120. (3a) No locality. Geurin Collection. 



348. (3d) Wales. E. Wilson. 



349. (Id) Coast of France. Guerin Collection. 



L. SQUILLA (Linnaeus, 1758). 

 Cancer squilla Linnaeus, 1758. 

 Astacus squilla Petagna, 1792. 

 Palaemon squilla Fabricius, 1793. 

 Palaemon antennarius H. Milne-Edwards, 1837 (part). 



Habitat. Mediterranean. 



127 & 398. (2a & la) Algiers. Guerin Collection. 

 L. xiPHiAS (Risso, 1816). 



Palaemon xiphias Risso, 1816. 



Palaemon crenulatus Risso, 1826. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



Habitat. Mediterranean. 



350. (Id) Nice, France. Guerin Collection. 



NEMATOCARCINUS A. Milne-Edwards, 1881. 

 Eumiersia S. I. Smith, 1882. 

 N. CURSOR A. Milne-Edwards, 1881. 

 Habitat. Deep water of the Atlantic. 



87. (la) Martha's Vineyard, 551 fathoms. U. S. Fish Commis- 

 sion, 1885. 



N. ENsiFERUs (S. I. Smith, 1882). 

 Eumiersia ensifera S. I., Smith, 1882. 



Habitat. Deep water of Atlantic. 



88. (2a) Martha's Vineyard, 1168 fathoms. U.S. Fish Commis- 

 sioD, 1884. 



OPLOPHORUS H. Milne-Edwards, 1837. 



Xiphoearis Martens, 1872. 



O. ELONGATUS (Gueriu, 1856). 

 Hippolyte elongata Guerin, 1856. 

 0. americanus Saussure, 1858. 

 Xiphoearis elongata Martens, 1872. 



Habitat. West Indies. 



396. (2a) San Domingo, West Indies. W. M. Gabb. 



PALAEMON Fabricius, 1798. 



P. ACANTHURUS Wiegmann, 1836. 

 P. forceps H. Milne-Edwards, 1837. 

 Bithynis forceps Sp. Bate, 1887. 



Habitat. East coast of tropical America. 



82. (2a) San Domingo, West Indies. W. M. Gabb. 



83. (la) St. Martin, West Indies. Dr. J. Van Rijgersma^ 

 84 & 85. (xa & la) Panama. McNeil Expedition. 



P. ACUTiROSTRis Dana, 1852. 

 Habitat. Pacific region. 



124. (xa) Sandwich Islands. No donor's name. 

 P. AFRiCANUS Kingsley, 1882 (No. 81 type). 

 Habitat. West Africa. 



81. (3a) West Africa. P. DuChaillu (Kingsley's type). 



P. CARCINUS (Linnaeus, 1758.) 

 Cancer cardnus Linnaeus, 1758. 



9 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



AstaciLs cardnus Fabricius, 1793. 

 Bithynis carcinus Sp. Bate, 1887. 



Habitat. Indo-Pacific region, 



347. (Id) Bombay. Guerin Collection (mss. type of P. whitei 

 Gueriu.) 



'358. (Id) Hoogley River, India. Dr. Harlan. 

 P. FAUSTiNUS Saussure, 1858. 

 Habitat. Rivers of the West Indian region. 



122. (6a) Vera Cruz, Mexico. No donor's name. 

 P. FLUViATiLis Streets, 1871 (No. 114 type). 

 Habitat. Rivers of Mexico. 



114. (2a) Tehauntepec. No donor's name (Streets' type). 

 P. GRACiLiMANUS Randall, 1839 (No. 125 type). 

 Habitat. Sandwich Islands. 



125. (la) Sandwich Islands. Nuttall and Townsend (Randall's 

 type). 

 P. GRANDiMANUs Randall, 1839 (No. 123 type). 



Bithynis grandinianus Sp. Bate, 1887. 

 Habitat. Sandwich Islands. 



123. (2a) Sandwich Islands. J. K. Townsend (Randall's type). 



p. HiRTiMANUS Olivier, 1811. 

 .P. latimanus De Man, 1887. 

 bithynis hirtimanus Sp. Bate, 1887. 



Habitat. Indo-Pacific region. 



99. (2a) Mauritius. Guerin Collection. 



P. jAMAicENSis Olivier, 1811. 



Astacus Jluviatilw Sloane, 1725, (not binominal). 



P. carcinusLesich , 1815. 



P. brachydactylus Wiegmann, 1836. 



Rjmndatus Randall, 1839 (No. 90 type). 



P. aztecus Saussure, 1858. 



Macrohrachium canericanum Sp. Bate, 1868. 



Bithynis javiaicensis Sp. Bate, 1887. 



Habitat. West Indies. 



90. (la) No locality. No donor's name (Randall's type of P. 

 jjunctatiis). 



91. (7a) St. Martin, West Indies. Dr. J. Van Rijgersma. 



92. (la) Cuba, AVest Indies. Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



93. (la) Guatemala. W. S. Vaux. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 1?3 



94. (8a) San Domingo, W. M. Gabb. 



95. (4a) No locality. Smithsonian Institution. 

 287. (Id) Brazil. Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



356. (Id) Cuba, West Indies. Dr. Spackman. 



357. (Id) No locality. No donor's name. 

 1001. (2a) Kingston, Jamaica. W. J. Fox, 1891. 



P. LAR Fabricius, 1798. 



P. longimanu.i Fabricius, 1798. 



P. ornatus Olivier, 1811. 



P. vagus Heller, 1862. 



P. equidens Heller, 1862. 



P. reunionensis Hoffman, 1874. 



P. mayottensis Hoffman, 1874. 



P. madagascarensis Hoffman, 1874. 



Bithynis ornatus Sp. Bate, 1887. 



Bithynis lar Sp. Bate, 1887. 



P. ornatus var vagus De Man, 1891. 



Habitat. Indo-Facific region. 



97. (4a) Navigator Islands. Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger. 

 353 & 355. (Id & Id) Mauritius. Guerin Collection. 

 96 & 181. (8a & la). No locality. No donor's name. 



P. MEXicANus Saussure, 1858. 



P. dasydactylus Streets, 1871 (No. 89 type). 

 P. sexdentatus Streets, 1871 (No. 113 type). 



Habitat. Rivers of Mexico and West Indies. 



89. (2a) Coatzacoalcos River, Mexico. No donor's name (Streets' 

 type of P. dasydactylus.). 

 113. (3a) CoatzacoalcosRiver, Mexico. No donor's name (Streets' 

 type of P. sexdentatus.). 

 P. OHiOENSis S. I. Smith, 1874. 

 P. sallei Guerin, mss.(No. 86 type). 



Habitat. Ohio and Mississippi Rivers. 



80. (xa) Vicksburg, Mississippi. L. C. Rice. 



86. (2a) Mississippi River. Guerin Collection (Gu^rin's mss. 



type). 



P. OLFERsii Wiegmann, 1836. 



P. spinimanus H. Milne-Edwards, 1837. 



Bithynis spinimanus Sp. Bate, 1887. 



P. cubanus Guerin, mss. (No. 182 type). 

 Habitat. Rivers of tropical America and of West Africa. 



121. (la) No locality. No donor's name. 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



182. (la) Cuba, Guerin Collection (Guerin's mss. type of P. cu- 



banus). 

 354. (Id) Brazil. No donor's name. 



PALAEMONELLA Dana, 1852. 

 P. YUCATANiCA Ives, 1891 (No. 389 type). 

 Habitat. East coast of Mexico. 



389. (la) Progreso, Yucatan. Mexican Expedition, 1890 (Ives' 

 type.) 



PALAEMONETES Heller, 1869. 

 P. PALUDOSA (Gibbes, 1851). 



Hippolyte paludosa Gibbes, 1851. 

 P. exilipes Stimpson, 1871. 



Habitat. East coast of United States. 



352. (4d) Wyandotte Cave, Indiana. E. D. Cope. 



390. (la) Caloosahatche River, Florida. Heilprin Collection 

 1886 (fide Ives, P. exilipes, 1891.). 



391. (4a) Lake Hikpoche (canal), Florida. Heilprin Collection 

 1886 (fide Ives, P. exilipes, 1891.). 



392. (8a) Lake Okeechobe, Florida. Heilprin Collection 1886 

 (fide Ives, P. exilipes, 1891.). 



P. VARiANS (Leach, 1815). 

 Palaemon varians Leach, 1815. 



Palaemoti antennarivs H. Milne-Edwards, 1837 (part). 

 Palaemon lacustris Martens, 1857. 

 Pelias migratorius Heller, 1862. 

 Anchistia migratorius Heller, 1863. 

 Leander antennarius Czernaiwsky, 1884. 



Habitat. Seas of Europe. 



351. (3d) France. Guerin Collection. 



P. VULGARIS (Say, 1818). 



Palaemon vulgaris Say, 1818. 

 Habitat. East coast of United States. 



179. (5a) Greenport, Long Island. Smithsonian Institution. 



180. (xa) No locality. No donor's name. 



1028. (xa) Beasley's Point, New Jersey. Dr. B. Sharp, 1893. 



1029. (xa) Nantucket, Massachusetts. Dr. B. Sharp, 1893. 



NIKIDAE, Sp. Bate, 1887. 

 PBOCESSA Leach, 1815. 



Niha Risso, 1816. 

 Nica Stimpson, 1860. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



P. CANALicuLATUS Leach, 1815. 



Nika edulis Risso, 1816, and authors. 

 Nika variegata Risso, 1816. 

 Nika canaliculata Desmarest, 1825. 

 Nica edulis Stimpson, 1860. 



Habitat. Seas of Europe. 



273. (Id) Nice, Frauce. Guerin Collection. 



368. (7a) Nice, France. Guerin Collection. 



CRANGONIDAE Sp. Bate, 1887. 



CRANGON Fabricius, 1798. 



C. CRANGON (Linnaeus, 1758.) 



Cancer crangon Linnaeus, 1758. 



Squilla cinerea Klein, 1754 (not binomial). 



Astacus crangon Herbst, 1796. 



C. vulgaris Fabricius, 1798, and authors. 



C. rufopunctatus Risso, 1816. 



C. septemspinosus Say, 1818. 



Habitat. All seas. 



274 & 370. (Id & xa). Mediterranean. Guerin Collection. 



275. (2d) Pembrokeshire, Wales. E. Wilson. 



276. (Id) England. E. AVilson. 



277. (Id) Belfast Bay, Ireland. W. Thompson (in exchange). 



278. (2d) California. W. Stimpson. 



279. (3d) Salem, Massachusetts. Dr. T. H. Streets. 



280 & 372. (2d & 6a) No locality. Smithsonian Institution. 



369. (8a) No locality. No donor's name. 



371. (7a) Beasley's Point. New Jersey. S. Ashmead. 



397. (3a) Coast of Massachusetts. U. S. Fish Commission. 

 C. FRANCiscoRUM Stimpson, 1856. 

 Habitat. Coast of California. 



373. (9a) San Francisco, California. W. Stimpson. 



374. (2a) No locality. Smithsonian Institution. 



375. (xa) San Francisco. California. E. H. Kelly. 

 C. TENUiFRONS Kingsley, 1882 (No. 377 type). 

 Habitat. Alaska. 



377. (2a) Marmot Isles, Alaska, 45 fathoms. Dr. W. H. Jones 

 (Kingsley's type). 



EGEON Eisso, 1816. 

 Aegean Kinahan, 1862. 

 E. CATAPHRACTus (Olivi, 1792). 

 Cancer cataphractus Olivi, 1792. 




126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



E. loricatus Risso, 1816. 



Crangon catapradus H. Milne-Edwards, 1837. 



Crang on cataphr actus Heller, 1863. 



Habitat. European seas. 



282. (Id) Algiers. Guerin Collection. 



E. FASCiATus (Risso, 1816.) 

 Crangon fasciatus Risso, 1816. 

 Aegeon fasciatus Kinahan, 1862. 



Habitat. European seas. 



281. (4d) Mediterranean. Guerin Collection. 



NECTOCRANGON Brandt, 1852. 



Argis Kroeyer, 1841 (name preoccupied). 

 N. ALASKEN8IS Kingsley, 1878 (No. 384 type). 

 Habitat. Alaska. 



384. (la) Marmot Isle, Alaska, 45 fathoms, Dr. W. H. Jones 

 (Kingsley's type). 



N. LAR (Owen, 1839.) 

 Crangon lar Owen, 1839. 

 Argis lar Kroeyer, 1843. 



Habitat. Arctic seas and North Atlantic. 



382. (la) Newfoundland. Guerin Collection. 



383. (3a) Halifax, Nova Scotia. Dr. T. H. Streets. 



PARACRANGON Dana, 1852. 

 P. ECHiNATUS Dana, 1852. 

 Habitat. Northwest coast of America. 



387. (2a) Marmot Isle, Alaska, 45 fathoms. Dr. W. H. Jones. 



PONTOPHILUS Leach, 1815. 



P. NORVEGicus (M. Sars, 1861.) 

 Crangon norvegicus M. Sars 1861. 



Habitat. North Atlantic. 



385. (2a) Lat. 43°, 32' N., Long. 59°, 22' W. 110 fathoms 

 IT. S. Fish Commission. 



P. SPINOSUS Leach, 1815. 



Crangon cataphractus Olivi, 1792 (part). 

 Crangon spinosus Lamarck, 1818. 

 Cheraphilus spinosus Kinahan, 1862. 



Habitat. European seas. 



283. (2d) Mediterranean. Guerin Collection. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 12T 



SABINEA Owen, 1835. 



S. SEPTEMCARiNATA (Sabine, 1824). 

 Crangon septemcarinata. Sabine, 1824. 



Habitat. Arctic seas and North Atlantic. 



284. (Id) No locality. Smithsonian Institution. 



386. (4a) Off Salem, Massachusetts, 35 fathoms. Dr. T. H. Streets. 



SCLEROCRANGON G. 0. Sars, 1885. 

 S. BOREAS (Phipps, 1774). 

 Cancer boreas Phipps, 1774. 

 Cancer homaroides O. Fabricius, 1780. 

 Astacus boreas Olivier, 1791. 

 Crangon boreas Fabricius, 1798. 

 Cheraphilus boreas Miers, 1877. 



Habitat. Arctic seas and North Atlantic. 



285. (Id) Lat. 66° North, 40 fathoms. No donor's name. 



378. (2a) Halifax, Nova Scotia. Dr. T. H. Streets. 



379. (5a) Spitzeubergen. Guerin Collection. 



380. (2a) Smithsonian Institution. No locality. 



383. (la) McCormick Bay. West Greenland Expedition, 1891» 



S. sALEBROSus (Owcn, 1839). 

 Crangon salebrosus Owen, 1839. 



Habitat. Arctic seas. 



376. (la) No locality. Smithsonian Institution. 



GNATHOPHYLLIDAE Ortmann, 1890. 

 DRIMO Risso, 1826. 

 Gnathophyllum Latreille, 1829. 

 D. ELEGANS (Risso, 1816). 

 Alpheus elegans Risso, 1816. 

 Gnathophyllum elegayis Latreille, 1829, and authors. 



Habitat. Mediterranean. 



286. (5d) Oran, Algiers. Guerin Collection, 



SUMMARY. 



Stomatopoda, genera, 4 species 17 (var 0) types 1 doubtful types 1, 

 Peneidea, " 3 " 15 ( " 1) " 3 " " 1, 



Eucyphidea, " 33 " 96 ( " 0) " 12 " " I, 



Total " 40 " 128 ( " 1) " 16 " " 3, 




128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



NEW SPECIES OF NORTH AMERICAN FUNGI FROM VARIOUS 

 LOCALITIES. 



BY J. B. ELLIS AND B. M. EVERHART. 



*PYRENOMYOETES. 



Asterina gramiuicola E. & E. 



On living and partly dead leaves of Oryzopsis asperifolia, Lansing, 

 Mich. May, 1892. (G. H. Hicks. No. 574). Perithecia scattered 

 or subgregarious, superficial, convex-discoid, perforated at the 

 apex, 150/^, diam., mycelium reduced to a scanty fringe of spreading 

 hyphse around the base. Asci obovate, 22-30 x 12-20,^, sessile, 

 8-spored. Sporidia inordinate, clavate-oblong, hyaline, uniseptate 

 and strongly constricted at the septum so as easily to separate into 

 two parts, quite variable in size — in some perithecia 7-10 x 2J/x, in 

 others 10-15x3-31/7.. 

 Asterina leemingii E. <!!:: E. 



On living leaves of Galax aphylla, Marion, Va. June, 1892. 

 Coll. Miss Helena Dewey Leeming, com. Smith Ely Jelliffe, M. D. 



Mycelium hypophyllous, forming black, orbicular spots 2-4 mm. 

 diam., composed of superficial appressed, radiating, dendroid- 

 branched hyphse furnished with globose hyphopodia 8-10/ji, diam. 

 Perithecia numerous, seated on the hyphse, depressed-globose, 150/^, 

 diam., with a papilliform ostiolum which is soon deciduous leaving 

 the perithecium perforated and convex. Asci oblong, 35-40 x 20— 

 24//., aparaphysate, 8-spored. Sporidia crowded, oblong-fusoid, 

 yellowish-hyaline, uniseptate, scarcely constricted, slightly curved, 

 18-22 X 5-6/j.. Has the habit of Dimerosporium orbiculare B. & C. 

 but differs in several respects. 



Bosellinia megaloecia E. & E. 



On dead willow. Sheridan, Montana. Jan., 1892. (Mrs. Lydia 

 A. Fitch.) 



Perithecia gregarious, globulose, subapplanate above, brown, sunk 

 in the bark, 1 J mm. diam., the apex erumpent and surrounded by 

 the lacinise of the ruptured epidermis, ostiolum tubercular-conical, 

 black. Asci cylindrical, paraphysate, 8-spored, p. sp. about 100 x 

 6-7/.i. Sporidia uniseriate, oblong, brown, 15-20 x 7-8/.i, not append- 

 iculate. The walls of the perithecia are thick and solid, coriaceo- 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 129 



■carbonaceous in texture, not easily broken. In this respect and in 

 its larger size it differs from R. mastoidea Sacc. 

 Melanopsamma corticola E. & E. 



On outer bark of living Quercus alba, Newfield, N. J. July, 

 1890. 



Perithecia erumpent-superficial, scattered, hemispherical, black, 

 small (175-200/^), the papilliform ostiolum situated in a slight 

 •depression and soon deciduous leaving a small, round opening. 

 Asci fasciculate, oblong-cylindrical, 50-65 x 10-12//, with filiform, 

 branched paraphyses, 8-spored. Sporidia bisenate, clavate-oblong, 

 hyaline, granular and multinucleate at first, becoming uniseptate and 

 constricted at the septum, 12-15 x 3-32/^. 



This was accompanied by Amphisphveria fallax DeNot. 

 Nectria nipigonensis E. & E. 



Parasitic on Diatrypella favacea, on dead birch limbs. Lake 

 Nipigon, Canada. Aug., 1884. (Macoun.) 



Perithecia 15-40, cespitose on the erumpent disk of the Diatrypella, 

 globose, about j ram. diam., pale reddish-yellow, becoming darker, 

 collapsing at the apex, scarcely papillate, smooth. Asci cylindrical, 

 aparaphysate, subsessile, 50-55 x 6-7/j.. Sporidia subbiconic-ellipti- 

 cal, hyaline, uniseptate, scarcely constricted at the septum, 10-12 x 

 5-6,^-. Conical stromata (Tubercularia) mixed with the perithecia, 

 pale yellow, depressed-globose, about 2 mm. diam., sessile, bearing a 

 peripherical layer of minute (3-4 x 1//), hyaline allantoid, slightly 

 curved conidia borne on slender, branching sporophores 20-25// 

 long. 

 Lasiosphaeria trichopus E. & E. 



On rotten wood, London, Canada. (Dearness, 677 D.) 



Perithecia densely gregarious, superficial, ovate, about 150/j., 

 high, fringed around the base with short (35-60x3//), faintly 

 septate, spreading, brown hyphie, glabrous above ; ostiolum broad- 

 papilliform. Asci oblong-cylindrical, or clavate-cylindrical, sub- 

 sessile, paraphysate, 8-spored, 75-80 x 12-15//. Sporidia biseriate, 

 fusoid-oblong, slightly curved, obscurely 7-9 septate, granular, 

 yellowish, 25-40 x 6-7//. L. ccesariata C. & P. has perithecia black 

 and shining subglobose and twice as large as this. 

 Trichosphaeria subcalva E. & E. 



On rotten wood of Ostrya virginic.a, London, Canada. Aug., 

 1892. (Dearness, No. 1,987.) 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Perithecia gregarious, ovate, i mm. diam., sparingly pilose around 

 the base, with rather pale, weak hairs, smoother and bare above, 

 black. Ostiolum papillose-conic, perforated. Asci clavate-cylin- 

 drical, lOOxlOv-, with abundant paraphyses, 8-spored. Sporidia 

 obliquely uniseriate or sub-biseriate, oblong-elliptical, hyaline, gran- 

 ular, 13-16 X o-'o.'Ji. The sporidia agree with those of Tr. punctillum 

 Rehm, but that has the perithecia smaller and seated on a distinct 

 brown subiculum. 



Herpotrichia incisa E. i E. 



On dead roots of Acer apicatum, London, Canada. April, 1892. 

 (Dearness, Xo. 1,810.) 



Perithecia densely gregarious, superficial on the blackened surface 

 of the wood, ovate-conical or subpyramidal, 300-400,^, diam., often 

 stellately incised at the apex, black, roughish, with a few weak, pale, 

 rudimentary hairs at first. Asci cylindrical, 150-200 x l2-15/-t, 

 with abundant, paraphyses, 8-spored. Sporidia overlapping-biseri- 

 ate, fusoid, subhyaline, slightly curved, uniseptate and slightly 

 constricted at the septum, 35-45 x IS-j.. 



Chaetomiam glabrescens E. & E. 



On a rotten limb (Salix)'^ Rockport, Kansas. Dec, 1892. 

 (Bartholomew, No. 810.) 



Gregarious, surrounded by and nearly sunk in a felt-like, black 

 subiculum composed of rough, branching black, interwoven hairs 

 sending up numerous straight, rough, simple bristles, l-l mm. long. 

 Perithecia ovate-globose about i mm. diam., clothed, especially below, 

 with long, straight, rough, simple bristles which also clothe at first, 

 but more sparingly, the upper part of the peritheciuni, but these are 

 soon deciduous, leaving the apex bare. Ostiolum conic-papilliform, 

 soon deciduous. The perithecia are very brittle and the upper part 

 soon falls away leaving the cup-shaped base. Sporidia elliptical, or 

 almond-shaped, 8-10 x 6-7// (front view'i, 7-9 x 5/-'., "^^hen seen edge- 

 wise. Asci not seen. 

 Teichospora gregaria E. & E. 



On decorticated Fraxinu-s, London, Canada. Feb., 1892. (J. 

 Dearness, No. 1,027.) 



Perithecia densely gregarious, ovate, 3-2 mm. diam., black, super- 

 ficial, with a conic-papilliform ostiolum. Asci cylindrical, short- 

 stipitate, 8-spored, with abundant paraphyses, p. sp. about 75 x 14/i. 

 Sporidia subuniseriate, oblong-elliptical, about 5-septate with a Ion- 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 131 



gitudinal septum often extending through all the cells, constricted 

 in the middle, hyaline and uniseptate at first, becoming yellow- 

 brown, 18-22 X 10-12,'Jt, ends obtusely pointed or regularly rounded. 

 The perithecia are attenuated above into the ostiolum so as to be 

 subconical. 



Teichospora variabilis E. i E. 



On dead sage brush {Arlemma), Sheridan, Montana. Jan., 1892, 

 (Mrs. L. A. Fitch. . 



Perithecia scattered, erumpent-superficial, black, rough, depressed- 

 hemispherical, '-k-h ram. diam., at first partly covered by the loose 

 fibers of the weather beaten bark, finally collapsing above. Ostiolum 

 papiliiform, finally perforated. Asci oblong, abruptly contracted 

 below into a very short stipe, paraphysate, 8-spored, 75-80 x 20-22;/, 

 Sporidia biseriate or crowded, elliptical, at first of a uniform yellow, 

 soon becoming a bright golden yellow and 5-7-septate and muriform, 

 finally becoming almost black and opaque, 20-25 x about 12/1. 

 Teichospora nantica E. ± E. 



On decorticated, weather-beaten, poplar limbs, in Mill Creek, 

 Sheridan, Montana. June, 1892. (Mrs. L. A. Fitch.) 



Perithecia scattered or gregarious, hemispherical or hemispheric- 

 elliptical, with the flattened base slightly sunk in the surface of the 

 wood, carbonaceo-membranaceous, about \ mm. diam., black, sub- 

 shining at the apex. Ostiolum papiliiform, at length perforated. 

 Asci cylindrical, short-stipitate, 100-1 10 x 12//, paraphysate, 

 8-spored. Sporidia uniseriate or sub-biseriate, elliptical or slightly 

 ovate-elliptical, with three main transverse septa, often becoming 

 5-septate, with 1-2 of the cells divided by a trausverse septum, 18- 

 22x8-11 /-I. 

 Teichospora aspera E. k E. 



On old weather-beaten, cotton wood boards, Rockport, Kansas. 

 Jan., 1892. (Bartholomew, No. 853.) 



Perithecia gregarious, semi-erumpent, membranaceous, hemispher- 

 ical or depressed-globose, about h mm. diam., tubercular roughened, 

 collapsing when dry, with a broad papiliiform ostiolum, finally 

 broadly perforated or sublaciniately ruptured at the apex. Asci 

 clavate-cylindrical, paraphysate, subsessile, 75-90x10-12//, 8 s pored. 

 Sporidia mostly overlapping uniseriate, ovate-oblong, 3-septate, and 

 constricted at the middle septum (sometimes at all the septa), brown. 




132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



one or both the inner cells divided by a longitudinal septum, 

 15-20 X 6-8/^-. 



Differs from T. muricata E. & E. in its shorter and narrower asci 

 and narrower sporidia. 



Closely allied to T. emilii Fabre. 



Teichosporella montanae E. & E. 



On drift wood, in Mill Creek, Sheridan, Montana. June, 1892. 

 (Mrs. L. A. Fitch.) 



Perithecia scattered, ovate-conical, i-^ mm., diam., at length 

 partially collapsing above, emergent-superficial among the loosened 

 fibres of the wood, membranaceous, black, perforated above. Asci 

 clavate, short-stipitate, 8-spored, with abundant paraphyses, 80-85- 

 X 12-15/^, (p. sp. 65-70,y.). Sporidia biseriate, oblong-clavate or 

 oblong-elliptical, 3-5-septate, with 1-2 of the cells divided by a 

 longitudinal septum, hyaline, 22-30 x 8-1 2,«, mostly a little curved 

 and finally more or less constricted at the septa. 

 Lophiosphaera hysterioides E. & E. 



On a rotten log of Carya, St. Martinville, La. Jan., 1890. 

 (Langlois, 2,215.) 



Perithecia densely gregarious, hemispherical, subelliptical on a 

 transverse section, about J mm. diam,, with their bases slightly sunk 

 in the wood, black, subcarbonaceous. Ostiolum linear, compressed, 

 extending nearly or quite across, open, and often with a parallel 

 groove on each side of the base ; sometimes the ostiolum is only 

 slightly prominent, then resembling Hysterium. Asci slender- 

 clavate-cylindrical, 55-60x8/^., (p. sp.) or, including the slender 

 base, 80-90,a long, with abundant paraphyses. Sporidia subbiseri- 

 ate above, fusoid, uniseptate and constricted at the septum, slightly 

 curved, pale yellowish-brown, 16-18 x 4-4 J/v.. 

 Lophiosphaera gloniospora E. & E. 



On decorticated willow limbs, among driftwood, in Mill Creek, 

 Sheridan, Montana. June, 1892. (Mrs. L. A, Fitch.) 



Perithecia scattered or gregarious, erumpent, convex-hemispherical, 

 about I mm. diam., of carbonaceo-coriaceous texture, becoming prom- 

 inent but not superficial, remaining more or less covered by the 

 fibers of the wood. Ostiolum narrow, compressed, not apparent in 

 the young specimens. Asci cylindrical, short-stipitate, 100-110 x 10- 

 12/i, 8-spored, with abundant paraphyses. Sporidia uniseriate, 

 obovate, hyaline, uniseptate, constricted at the septum, 12-16 x 6-7,«, 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 133 



almost exactly like those of Glonium lineare. The surface of the 

 wood, in those parts occupied by the fungus, is, for the most part, 

 uniformly blackened. 

 Lophiosphsera fluviatilis E. & E. 



On decorticated, weather-beaten limbs of (Salix) ? Among drift- 

 wood, near Sheridan, Montana. May, 1892. (Mrs. L. A. Fitch.) 



Perithecia gregarious or scattered ovate-globose or elliptical, about 

 i mm. diam. (i-^), emergent among the loosened fibers of the wood 

 which, when the perithecia are gregarious, is generally blackened 

 on the surface. Ostiola variable, thin, compressed or also sometimes 

 simply papilliform, at length perforated and sometimes partially 

 collapsing. Asci clavate-cylindrical, 75-80 x 12/j., short-stipitate, 

 with abundant paraphyses, Sporidia sub-biseriate, fusoid, hyaline, 

 uniseptate and constricted, mostly swollen on each side of the septum, 

 slightly curved, nucleate, 20-23 x 5-6;«. 

 Otthiaostryaegena E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Ostrya virginica, London, Canada. April, 

 1892. (Dearness, No. 1,782.) 



Perithecia erumpent in clusters 1-2 mm. across, surrounded by the 

 ruptured epidermis, i-i ram. diam., globose, black, granular-rough- 

 ened, and finally collapsing. Ostiolum papilliform, at length, per- 

 forated. Asci cyclindrical, 100-120 x 15//, stipitate, p. sp. 90-100/^ 

 long, paraphysate. Sporidia 8 in an ascus, uniseriate, elliptical or 

 oblong-elliptical, brown, uniseptate and constricted at the septum, 

 20-25 x 11-13/i. 



The clusters of perithecia are larger and more distinctly erumpent 

 than in Otthia cratcegi and the perithecia themselves are white 

 inside. 

 Montagnella acerina E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Acer spicatum, near St. Catherine, Ontario, 

 Canada. May, 1892. (Dearness, 1,860.) 



Perithecia subglobose, black, about i mm. diam. erumpent-super- 

 ficial in small (1 mm.) but dense clusters, or sometimes in elongated 

 strips one mm. wide and 3-5 mm. long. Ostiola strongly papilliform, 

 at length perforated. Asci cylindrical, p. sp. 60-65 x 6//, with 

 abundant paraphyses, 8-spored. Sporidia uniseriate, oblong-ellip- 

 tical, 3-septate, yellowish or olivaceous hyaline, 10-12 x 4-5/^. 



Wallrothiella parvula E. & E. 



On bark of birch roots, London, Canada. April, 1892. (Dear- 

 ness, No. 1,633.) 




134 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Perithecia scattered or subgregarious, superficial, ovate-conical 

 black and subshining, minute, 150-200/^. diani., with a conic-papilli 

 form ostiolura. Asci fusoid, i. e. thickest in the middle and taper 

 ing to each end, obscurely paraphysate, 8-spored, about 50 x 5-6/x 

 Sporidia biseriate in the middle of the ascus, uniseriate at each end 

 oblong-elliptical, hyaline, binucleate, 5-6 x 1^-2^ ;jl. 



Sphaerella dircae E. & E. 



On living leaves of Dirca palustrls, London, Canada. July, 1892. 

 (Dearness, No. 1,941.) 



Spots amphigenous, dark brown below, dirty white above with a 

 dark brown border, irregular in shape, 2-4 mm. diam., subconfluent, 

 often several of the dirty white spots included in a large dark brown 

 area. Perithecia epiphyllous, scattered on the spots, subprominent, 

 perforated above, 80-1 10,y. diam. Asci oblong-cylindrical, about 

 35 X 6,a. Sporidia biseriate, oblong, uniseptate, hyaline, scarcely 

 constricted, 15-20 x 5-6/j.. 



A Macrosporium was found on the same spots. 



Sphaerella oryzopsis E. & E. 



On leaves of Oryzopsis asperifolia, Lansing, Mich. May, 1892. 

 (G. H. Hicks, No. 573.) 



Perithecia scattered or oftener in definite patches about 1cm. 

 diam., sunk, except the subobtuse, slightly projecting apex, in the 

 parenchyma of the leaf, small (75-80,a), black. Asci fasciculate, 

 sessile, aparaphysate, 35-40 x 10-12 /j., 8-spored. Sporidia biseriate, 

 clavate-oblong, hyaline, uniseptate and slightly constricted at 

 the septum, 12-15 x 3-32//-. 



Apparently closely allied to ;S^. oryzce (Catt.), but difiers in its 

 oblong-fusoid asci, and sporidia. 



Sphaerella solani E. & E. 



On leaves of Solanum dulcamara. Ohio, Kellerman, No. 412, and 

 London, Canada. (Dearness, No. 866.) 



Spots numerous, small (1-2 mm.), round, white, deciduous, thin 

 and pellucid. Perithecia mostly epiphyllous, few on a spot, lentic- 

 ular, perforated, 80-110// diam. Asci oblong, 35-40 x 10,^ apara- 

 physate, 8-spored. Sporidia biseriate, fusoid-oblong, uniseptate, 

 scarcely constricted, 10-12 x 3,a, ends subacute. 



Not distinguishable outwardly from Leplosphoeria solani E. & E. 

 which is found on the same leaves. 




189B.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



Sphaerella lycii E. & E. 



On living leaves of Lycium vulgare, Loudon, Canada. Aug., 

 1892. (Dearness, No. 1,984.) 



Maculicolous, epiphyllous, on small (1-1? mm.), definite, thin 

 round, white spots. Perithecia subdiscoid, black, about k mm. diam. 

 few on a spot. Asci 35-45 x 1 Qii, oblong-clavate, 8-spored. Sporidia 

 biseriate, oblong-fusoid, inequilateral, hyaline, subobtuse at the ends, 

 (becoming uniseptate) ? 12-15 x b-Qju 

 Pleospora carpinicola E. k E. 



On dead limbs of Oarpinns americana, London, Canada. April, 

 1892. (Dearness, No. 1,738.) 



Perithecia buried in the bark, gregarious, depressed-globose, 

 covered by the epidermis which is raised into distinct pustules and 

 barely pierced by the papilliform ostiolum. Asci cylindrical, short- 

 stipitate, 100-110 X 8-9/i, paraphysate. Sporidia uniseriate, ellip- 

 tical, obtusely pointed at the ends, 3-septate, constricted at the 

 middle septum, one or two of the inner cells divided by a longitu- 

 dinal septum, pale yellow, 14-16 x 7-8//, ends obtusely pointed. 

 Pleospora decipiens E. & E. 



On decorticated, bleached wood of Azalea, Newfield, N. J. June, 

 1877, with Cheiromyces comatus E. & E. 



Perithecia gregarious, membranaceous, subelliptical, about I mm. 

 diam., convex, collapsing above when dry. Ostiolum indistinct. 

 Asci oblong, 55-65 x 15-20,a, sessile, sparingly paraphysate, 4-8- 

 spored, Sporidia subbiseriate, oblong or clavate-oblong, 5-7-septate 

 and muriform, hyaline or slightly tinged with yellow, 35-40 x 10- 

 12/a. 



Outwardly this cannot be distinguished from Zignoella diaphana 

 (C. & E.) but that has the sporidia smaller and in all the species 

 seen, including those from Moutaua and Oregon, only 3-septate. 



Leptosphaeria lasioderma E. & E. 



On dead stems of Artemisia tridentata, Sprucemont, Nevada. 

 Oct., 1892, 8,500 ft. alt. (M. E. Jones, No. 2.) 



Perithecia scattered, erumpent-superficial, hemispherical, 5-I 

 mm. diam., perforated above, shagged with a loose coat of brown, 

 continuous, flaccid hairs 100-150 x 5-6/ji. Asci clavate-cylindrical, 

 65-75 x 15-20/x. with abundant paraphyses, short-stipitate. Sporidia 

 biseriate, broad oblong-fusoid, slightly curved, 25-30 x 10-12/i, 

 golden yellow, somewhat constricted at the septa, and occasionally 

 with a short apiculus at each end. 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Leptosphaeria lilii Ell. & Deamess. 



On leaves of Lilium superbtim, London, Canada. Aug., 1890. 

 (J. Deamess.) 



Spots amphigenous, elliptical, becoming pale, 1-1 cm. long x 3-5 

 mm. wide, definite, with a narrow, reddish-purple border. Perithe- 

 cia amphigenous, scattered, black, sublenticular, pierced above, 

 150-200,^ diam., erumpent. Asci oblong-cylindrical, paraphysate, 

 with a short, nodular base, 50-60 x 7/j. Sporidia biseriate, fusoid, 

 3-septate, constricted at the middle septum with the cell next above 

 swollen, hyaline at first, becoming yellowish, nearly straight 15-18 



X S/M. 



The spermogonial stage (Phyllostida lilii Ell. & Dearness) occurs 

 on the same leaves and does not differ outwardly, sporules hyaline 

 4-5 X 2i-3/^. 

 Leptosphaeria solani E. & E. 



On living leaves of Solarium dulcamara, London, Canada. Aug.,. 

 1892. (Dearness, No. 886 B.) 



Perithecia epiphyllous, on small round, white spots 1-3 mm. diam. 

 with a narrow, slightly raised reddish-brown margin, depressed- 

 globose, 150/j'. diam., black, erumpent-superficial. Asci clavate- 

 cylindrical, 55-60x8//-, subsessile; paraphyses, if any, very obscure. 

 Sporidia biseriate, fusoid, nearly straight, yellowish, 3-septate, con- 

 stricted at the middle septum, and the two adjacent cells, especially 

 the one next above, slightly swollen, 16-20 x 22-3/j. 



There is a Phyllosticta on the same spots with smaller, perithecia 

 and sporules, 5-7 x 3,a. (P. dulcamarcB Sacc.) ? 

 Metasphaeria maximiliani E. & E. 



On dead stems of Helianthus maximiliani, Rockport, Kansas. 

 Dec, 1892. (Bartholomew, No. 821.) 



Perithecia scattered, erumpent and semi-emergent or nearly super- 

 ficial by the peeling off of the epidermis, ovate, about J mm. high, 

 black, with a papilliform ostiolum. Asci eylindric-clavate, 75 x 8/^, 

 paraphysate, 8-spored. Sporidia biseriate, oblong-fusoid, hyaline, 

 2-septate, and constricted at the septa, obtuse, not appendiculate,. 

 15-20x4-5//. 



Differs from M. helianthi Awd. in its rather longer, 2-septate 

 sporidia. 

 Metasphaeria sphenispora E. & E. 



On dead culms of Erianthus alopecnroides, near Newark, Del. 

 April, 1892. (Commons, No. 1,941.) 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 137 



Perithecia gregarious, elliptical in a horizontal section, about i 

 mm. diam., strongly convex, flattened at base and fringed with short 

 mycelium, strongly prominent but closely covered by the blackened 

 epidermis, umbilicately perforated above, Asci clavate-cylindrical, 

 sessile or nearly so, paraphysate, 60-65 x lO-12/x. Sporidia crowded- 

 biseriate, cuneate-clavate, 3-septate, obtuse above, at length distinctly 

 constricted at the septa, 12-16 x 3*//, hyaline, not curved. 



Differs from M. graminum 8acc. in its much larger, and distinctly 

 prominent perithecia. The sporidia are about the same as in that 

 species ; differs also essentially from Leptosphcerla orthogramma (B. 

 & C.) on the same host. 



Metasphseria fuscata E. & E. 



On bark of small, dead oak limbs, (Querciis coccmea), Newfield, 

 N. J. Oct., 1892. 



Perithecia gregarious, about ^ mm. diam., covered by the epider- 

 mis which is blackened over them and raised into rather flattish 

 pustules, which are pierced by the minute papilliform ostiolum, but 

 not ruptured or torn. The surface of the bark between the pustules 

 is of a smoky hue. Asci oblong-cylindrical, sessile, 75-100 x 12- 

 15,«, 8-.spored, with slender filiform paraphyses. Sporidia over- 

 lapping-uniseriate, oblong, hyaline, 3-septate and constricted at the 

 septa, rounded at the ends, straight or nearly so, 19-22 x 7-8//. 



Comes near 3f. leiostega, but differs in the blackened epidermis 

 and narrower, oblong sporidia constricted at the septa. 

 Metasphaeria micrcecia E. & E. 



On dead twigs and limbs of Acer spicatum, London, Canada. 

 May, 1892. (Dearness, No. 1,829.) 



Perithecia scattered or subgregarious, minute, (»-] mm.), white 

 inside, buried in the bark which is raised into minute pustules and 

 barely pierced by the minute, papilliform ostiola. Asci oblong- 

 cylindrical, short-stipitate, obscurely paraphysate, 70-85 x 18-27//, 

 8-spored. Sporidia biseriate, fusoid, slightly curved, 5-6-nucleate, 

 constricted between the nuclei, hyaline, 40-45 x 7-1 0/x. 



The sporidia are about the same as in M. myricce Pk. but our 

 species is readily distinguished from that by its minute perithecia. 

 Zignoella nyssaegena E. & E. 



On outer bark of living Nyssa mtdtiflora, Newfield, N. J. Nov., 

 1892. 



Perithecia loosely gregarious, superficial, membranaceous, black 

 and subshining, ovate-globose, about 150//. diam., perforated above. 

 10 




138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Asci oblong, short-stipitate, overtopped by the abundant, filiform 

 })araphyses, 85-60 x 10-12,a, 8-spored. Sporidia biseriate, clavate- 

 yyriform, yellowish-hyaline, 1-2-septate, not constricted, subinequi- 

 lateral, 13-15 x 4-5/^., at first filled with minute nuclei and without 

 septa. The specimens were not well matured and it may be that the 

 sporidia become 3-septate, but only 2 septa were seen. 



Uassariovalsa caudata E. & E. 



On bark of dead C7??nMs, London, Canada. June, 1892. (Dear- 

 ness, No. 1,901.) 



Perithecia subcircinate, 3-8 together, buried in the scarcely 

 altered substance of the inner bark, coriaceo-membranaceous, i-k 

 mm. diam., their obtusely couic-papilliform ostiola erumpent in a 

 small, compressed fascicle through the pustuliform-elevated epider- 

 mis. Asci broad oblong-clavate, pseudoparaphysate, substipitate, 

 6-spored, p. sp. 80-110 x 20,^.. Sporidia biseriate, oblong, obtusely 

 rounded at the ends, hyaline, becoming brown, 3-septate, 25-45 x 

 12-15,a, with a cornute, mostly curved, hyaline, evanescent append- 

 age 12-20// long, at the lower end and sometimes at both ends. 



The sporidia have a thin, hyaline envelope and remain for a long 

 time hyaline. 

 Clypeosphaeria minor E. & E. 



On bark of dead birch roots, London, Canada. April, 1892. 

 ,(J. Dearness.) 



Perithecia gregarious, about J mm. diam., slightly sunk in the 

 inner bark and raising the epidermis into distinct pustules pierced 

 at the apex by the slightly compressed, subconical ostiolum. Asci 

 clavate, 50-55 x dp., with filiform paraphyses 8-spored. Sporidia 

 fiub-biseriate, fusoid-oblong, olivaceous-brown, 3-septate, slightly 

 curved, 10-12 x 2t-3//, attenuated toward each end but subobtuse. 

 Clypeosphaeria ulmicola E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Ulmiis, London, Canada. April, 1892. (Dear- 

 ness, No. 1,776.) 



Perithecia thickly but evenly scattered, buried in the bark which 

 is raised into minute pustules, about i mm. diam., of a slaty black 

 color and of uniform soft consistence throughout. Ostiola papilli- 

 fornij erumpent through the minute, black stromatic shield but not 

 prominent. Asci (p. sp.) 75-85x8-9/-/., cylindrical, paraphysate. 

 Sporidia uniseriate, oblong-elliptical, brown, 3-septate and often con- 

 stricted at the middle septum, 14-16 x 7-8/.*, ends rounded and 

 obtuse. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



Thyridium syringae E. & E. 



On dead stems o^ Syringa (lilac), London, Canada. March, 1892. 

 (Dearness, No. 1,654.) 



Perithecia thickly scattered, buried in the bark, about \ mm- 

 diam., with thick, coriaceous walls. Ostiolum papilliform, black, 

 barely perforating the bark which is raised into slight pustules but 

 not ruptured. Asci clavate-cylindrical, 75-80 (p. sp. 65) x 12,a, 

 (paraphysate) ? 8-spored. Sporidia biseriate above, oblong or 

 clavate-oblong 3-(exceptionally 4-) septate, with one or two of the 

 cells divided by a longitudinal septum, yellowish-brown, 12-15 x 5- 



Thyridium americanum E. <fe E. 



On dead and considerably decayed limbs of Xanthoxylnm america- 

 num, London, Canada, April, 1892. (Dearness, No. 1,780.) 



Perithecia evenly scattered or 2-3 lying close together, buried in 

 the inner bark, which is blackened on the surface, 200-400// diam., 

 globose, homogeneous and white inside, contracted above into short 

 necks, their globose or conic-papilliform ostiola piercing the epider- 

 mis and raising it into numerous small pustules. Asci cylindrical, 

 100-115 X 12-1 5,a, p. sp. 80-90,a long, paraphysate, 8-spored. 

 Sporidia uniseriate, elliptical or ovate, 3-septate and submuriform, 

 constricted at the middle septum, 14-17 x 8-9/^.. Very different 

 from Thyronectria xanthoxyli (Pk.). Accompanying the ascigerous 

 perithecia are other similar ones, some of which contain minute 

 spermatia 2J-3xf/Jt, others with sporules oblong-fusoid, hyaline, 

 2-nucleate, 10-12 x 3/jt, on clavate-basidia 12-1 5,^.. long (Dendro- 

 phoma) f and others {Hender so )ii a xanthoxylilE!>. &Yi.),'\\ith oblong- 

 cylindrical, brownish, 3-septate sporules, 10-12 x S/j.. 



Anthostomella mammoides E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Ostrya virginica, London, Canada. June, 

 1892. (Dearness, No. 1,801.) 



Perithecia gregarious, about V mm. diam., with thick, coriaceous 

 walls, about half sunk in the inner bark, the upper half raising the 

 closely adherent epidermis into strong, dome-like, hemispherical 

 pustules about 1 mm. across, the prominent, large, papilliform 

 ostiola erumpent. Asci cylindrical, paraphysate, 110-120 x 12-15//, 

 8-spored, p. sp. 90-110//, long. Sporidia uniseriate, elliptical, brown, 

 15-22 X 10-13//. 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Eutypella amorphae E. & E. 



On dead stems of Araorpha fruticosa, Rockport, Kansas. Dec, 

 1892. (Bartholomew, No. 822.) 



Stromata scattered, numerous and lying close together, but mostly 

 not confluent, conic-convex, about 2 mm. diam., formed above from 

 the scarcely altered but slightly paler substance of the bark, and 

 closely circumscribed by a narrow, black line which does not 

 penetrate the wood. Perithecia 6-8 in a stroma, rather less than I 

 mm. in diameter, globose, with rather thick walls, partly sunk in 

 the surface of the wood, lying closely crowded together, their slender 

 necks rising close together and the rather large subtubercular, sul- 

 cate-clefi, fasciculate ostiola piercing, but not rupturing the closely 

 adherent epidermis, which is not perceptibly raised. Asci clavate, 

 36-40 X S-Si/j'. (p. sp. 15-20,^ long), 8-spored. Sporidia subbiseri- 

 ate, allantoid, slightly curved, hyaline, with a nucleus in each end, 

 5-6 xU/'.. 

 Diaporthe albocarnis E. & E. 



On the smaller dead limbs of Cornus sp, and on Staphylea trifolia 

 and Ostrya virginica, London, Canada. May, 1891. (J. Dear- 

 ness.) 



Perithecia 2-4 together in a minute, cortical stroma, small {I 

 mm,), solid and white inside, ovate-globose, attenuated above into 

 very short necks with their obscure, scarcely prominent, perforated 

 ostiola united in a flat, black disk, erumpent through the ruptured 

 epidermis which is raised into little pustules thickly scattered over 

 the limbs. Asci clavate, p. sp. about 75 x 7-8//. Paraphyses simple 

 filiform, rather stout, longer than the asci. Sporidia subbiseriate, 

 fusoid 4-nucleate at first, becoming uniseptate (seldom 3-septate) and 

 constricted and slightly swollen on each side of the septum, some- 

 times brownish, 12-20 x 3j-5//. 



There is no circumscribing line around the stroma but the wood 

 to the depth of about 2 mm. is slightly discolored, presenting 

 a clouded or marbled appearance. The margin of the ruptured 

 epidermis is at first stained yellowish. Sometimes there is only a 

 single perithecium in a stroma. This can hardly be Viaporthe 

 sphingiophora Ouds. On the same limbs occurs Myxosporium niti- 

 dum B. & C, which may be the spermogonial stage. 



Diaporthe apiospora E. & E. 



On bark of dead Ulmus, London, Canada. (Dearness), Iowa 

 (Holway.) 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



Perithecia lying in compact, circinate groups on the surface of the 

 inner bark or slightly buried in it, ovate-globose, black, membrana- 

 ceous, I mm. diam., necks converging with their obtuse smooth 

 ostiola in a small fascicle slightly raising and piercing the thick 

 epidermis, but scarcely rising above it. Asci clavate-cylindrical, 

 75-80 X 8-10//, pseudoparaphysate, 8-spored. Sporidia obliquely 

 uniseriate or subbiseriate, obovate, 2-celled, the lower cell very 

 small, the upper one much larger and elliptical, each with a single 

 nucleus, hyaline, 11-15 x 6-10,a. 



This has the habit of Diaporthe with the sporidia of Ajyiospora. 



Diaporthe ulmicola E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Ulmus, London, Canada. June, 1892. (Dear- 

 ness. No. 1,869.) 



Perithecia 8-12 in a pustule, globose, about J mm. diam. slate- 

 color inside, subcircinate, buried in the substance of the inner bark 

 which is unchanged except in being slightly blackened on the sur- 

 face. Ostiola cylindrical, about •' mm. long, erect, straight, rising 

 in close fascicles through cracks in the rough outer bark, often, from 

 the close proximity of the pustules from which they rise, forming an 

 almost continuous series for a centimeter or more. Smooth or some- 

 what quadrisulcate at the apex. Asci (p. sp.) oblong-fusoid, about 

 40 X 7,"; 8 spored. Sporidia biseriate, oblong-elliptical, 3-4-nucleate , 

 not at all or only slightly constricted in the middle, 8-11 x 3-4/j'.. 



Diaporthe pruni E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Prumis virginiana, London, Canada. April, 

 1892 (Dearness, No. 1,695.) and Iowa (Holway). 



Stroma cortical, orbicular or elliptical, convex, 3-4 mm. diam., 

 formed from the slightly altered and somewhat paler substance of 

 the bark. Perithecia 8-12, circinate, ovate-globose, 3-5 mm. diam., 

 black, finally subcollapsing, partly sunk in the surface of the wood, 

 contracted above into short necks with their hemispheric-conical 

 ostiola erumpent in a whitish disk which is soon obliterated. Asci 

 clavate-fusoid, 60-65 x 8-10//. (p. sp.). Sporidia biseriate, oblong- 

 fusoid, hyaline, 4-nucleate, slightly constricted in the middle, with a 

 short, cornute appendage at each end, straight, 15-20 x 32-5//.. 



Differs from Cryptospora pemisylvauica, in its larger, appeudiculate 

 sporidia. The stroma is mostly limited (in the bark) by a black, 

 circumscribing line which, however, does not (usually) penetrate the 

 wood. The appendages are mostly a little bent at the tips ; spores 

 with appendages 18-22// long. 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



The spermogonia (Cytispm^a pruni Ell. and Dearness), contain an 

 abundance of oblong-fusoid sporules, 2-4-nucleate, hyaline, 10-12 x 

 S/J-. The perithecia appear in the bark, directly beneath the sper- 

 mogonia. 

 Diaporthe calosphaerioides E. & E. 



On dead stems of Sambucus, London, Canada. April, 1892. 

 (Dearness, No. 1,744.) 



Stroma cortical, convex, 2-4 ram. diam., raising the bark into 

 broad pustules, sunk to the wood but not penetrating it or sur- 

 rounded by any black circumscribing line, thin, brownish-black, 

 mostly coming off with the bark. Perithecia 6-12, circinate, thin 

 membranaceous and collapsing when dry, about 2 mm. diam., necks 

 slender, decumbent, converging with their brjad-papilliform, finally 

 subumbilicate ostiola joined in a flat, brown disk erurapent through 

 the epidermis and closely surrounded by it. Asci fusoid-clavate, p. 

 sp. 50-60 X 8-10//, with a fugacious stipe 15-20,a. long, and long, 

 lanceolate but very evanescent paraphyses. Sporidia biseriate, 

 allantoid, hyaline, 3-4-nucleate, rounded at the ends, finally uni- 

 septate, about ] 5 x 3-3?//. 



This has an outward resemblance to Pseudovalsa sambucina Pk., 

 but differs in its sporidia. The long paraphyses and circinate peri- 

 thecia barely covered by the thin stroma indicate a relationship with 

 Culosphceria. 



Siaporthe aliena E. & E. 



On Cratcegus (hawthorn), London, Canada. March, 1892* 

 (Dearness, No. 1,793.) 



Perithecia 4-6 in a pustule, buried in the scarcely altered bark, 

 not sunk in the wood, black, subcom pressed, 2-I mm. diam., with 

 short necks and black, obtuse, coarse ostiola erumpent in a brown, 

 convex disk which is soon obliterated. Asci cylindrical, 75-80 x 

 7-8/j'.. Sporidia uniseriate, 8 in an ascus, short and obiusely-ellip- 

 tical, hyaline, uniseptate and constricted, with a large nucleus in 

 each cell, 10-13 x l-S.a. 



According to the specc. of D. crataegi (Curr.) in Cke. F. Brit. 

 ser. 1st, No. 380, this cannot be that species, which in the specc. 

 cited, has smaller perithecia and smaller asci with biseriate, oblong- 

 fusoid sporidia about 15 x Sip-, 4-nucleate, becoming uniseptate. 

 There is some confusion in Currey's figures. The ascus he figures 

 on PI. 48, fig. 135, has uniseriate, elliptical, uniseptate sporidia,. 

 while the sporidia figured at 135 (a), are oblong-cylindrical. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 143^^ 



Diaportlie spicata E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Acer spicattim, London, Canada. April, 1892, 

 (Dearness, No. 1,784.) 



Perithecia few in a pustule (4-8), small (250-300//), black, 

 buried in the bark and not penetrating the wood. Ostiola short- 

 cylindrical or conic-cylindrical, raising the epidermis into little 

 pustules and rupturing or piercing it, but mostly remaining partly 

 covered by it. Asci oblong-fusoid, p. sp. 40 x 7,a. Sporidia biseri- 

 ate, oblong or fusoid-oblong, slightly curved, subacute, about 4- 

 nucleate, becoming 1-septate, hyaline, 12-13 x 3-3?/^. 



Differ? from D. acerina (Pk.) in its smaller perithecia not sunk ia 

 the wood, and its curved sporidia. 

 Eutypella coryli E. & E. - 



On dead Cor?//tfs, London, Canada. June, 1892. (Dearness, No^ 

 1,872.) 



Perithecia 8-15 in a pustule, globose, coriaceous, about } mm. 

 diam., circinately buried in the unchanged substance of the inner 

 bark, their 4-cleft ostiola erumpent in a convex, black disk 1-2 mm. 

 diam., which is soon obliterated. Asci clavate, 20-30. x 4//, 8-spored. 

 Sporidia biseriate, allantoid, yellowish, moderately curved, 5-6 x 



The tufts of erumpent ostiola are distinctly prominent. This seems 

 quite distinct from any of the other described species on Coryhis. 

 Fenestella ulmicola E. <& E. 



On dead limbs of Ulmiis americana, London, Canada. August, 

 1892. (J. Dearness.) 



Stroma orbicular, convex, about A cm. diam., closely covered by 

 the epidermis, which is raised into a broad pustule pierced by the 

 minute, black disk but not laciniately torn. Perithecia 6-12, circin- 

 ate in the dull yellowish, light colored substance of the stroma, i-f 

 mm. diam., ovate-globose, their necks converging and their conic- 

 papilliform or convex, black ostiola erumpent and united in the 

 small disk, which rises slightly above the epidermis. Asci cylindri- 

 cal, short-stipitate, paraph y sate ; 110-120x12//. Sporidia uni- 

 seriate, oblong-elliptical, 5-septate, with a longitudinal septum run- 

 ning through, brown, 12-16 x 7-8//. 



The substance of the stroma is similar to that of i^. vedita, but the 

 asci and sporidia are smaller. 




144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Valsaria staphylina E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Staphylea trifolia, Loudon, Canada. May, 1892. 

 (Dearness, No. 1.848.) 



Stromata orbicular or elliptical, 2-3 mm. diam., convex-hemi- 

 spherical, buried in the inner bark which is uniformly blackened on 

 the surface but remains unaltered within, often seriately arranged. 

 Perithecia subcircinate 6-12 in a stroma, 300-350/^. diam., with 

 short, slender necks, the papilliform ostiola erumpent in a small, 

 black, mostly acutely-elliptical disk visible in longitudinal clefts of 

 the slightly raised epidermis. Asci cylindrical, p. sp. 80-90 x 7/j., 

 paraphysate, 8-spored. Sporidia uniseriate, oblong-elliptical, obtuse, 

 dark brown, constricted, 12-15x7-8/^, each cell with a single 

 nucleus. 



Of less robust growth than V. insHiva not blackening the wood, 

 and only blackening the surface of the inner bark. 



Diatrypella pulcherrima E. & E. 



On dead twigs of A^a/ta;, London, Canada. May, 1892. (Dear- 

 ness, No. 1,875.) 



Stromata minute, gregarious, cortical, raising the smooth epider- 

 mis into convex-hemispherical pustules about 1 mm. diam., and 

 crowned with a minute, white, orbicular disk which is soon obliter- 

 ated in the center by the tips of the crowded, black, smooth, minute 

 ostiola, which do not however rise quite up to the surface of the 

 disk. Perithecia 8-12, minute (1 mm. or less), lying in a subcircin- 

 ate manner in the stroma. Asci (p. sp.) oblong 30-35 x 8-10//., 

 polysporous. Sporidia inordinate, allautoid, hyaline, moderately 

 curved, 8-12 x li/i. 

 H'mnmularia lateritia E. lic E. 



On bark of dead Fraximis sambiicifolia, London, Canada. March, 

 1892. (Dearness, No. 1,283.) 



Stroma carnose-carbonaceous, orbicular, discoid, 2-lcm. across, 

 and about 1 mm. thick, dark reddish-brown, bordered by the mar- 

 gin of the ruptured epidermis, seated on the surface of the inner 

 bark and circumscribed by a black line which penetrates to the 

 ■wood. Ostiola papilliform, becoming umbilicate, scarcely jirom- 

 inent. Perithecia peripherical, ovate 2 mm., or a little more high, 

 and about i mm. broad, forming a closely compacted stratum. 

 Asci clavate, paraphysate, long-stipitate, 100-120 x 8/7., p. sp. 55- 

 j60x8//. Sporidia obliquely uniseriate, navicular, 10-12x4-5/^, 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 145 



(exceptionally 12-15 x 5-6/j.), nearly hyaline and 2-nucleate at 

 first, becoming opaque and nearly black. Has the habit of Nuni- 

 rmilaria rumpens Ck., but distinguished by its dark red, subcarnose 

 stroma, inconspicuous ostiola and navicular sporidia. 



* * DISCOMYCETES. 

 Lachnea cervicolor E. & E. 



On rotten wood, Canada, (Macoun.) 



Ascomata, suborbicular, sessile, 4-10 cm. diam., flattened (shallow 

 cup-shaped), with the margin entire and incurved when dry ; out- 

 side clothed with a dense coat of short, dark ferruginous hairs, the 

 margin with louger, paler, septate hairs 400-600/^. long and decum- 

 bent or appressed ; disk when dry liver color. Asci cylindrical, 

 150-200 X 15,a, p. sp. 120-150//, long. Paraphyses abruptly thick- 

 ened at the apex which is about 5//, thick and hyaline. Sporidia 

 uniseriate oblong-elliptical, with one large, oblong nucleus or with 

 two smaller ones, hyaline, 18-22 x 11-12//, epispore smooth or some- 

 limes very faintly granular-roughened. 



Allied to L. lanuginosa (Bull.), L. hainsei and L. anraiittopsis 

 Ell., but apparently distinct. 



Orbilia caulophylli E. & E. 



On dead stems of Caulophjihnn thalietroides, London, Canada. 

 May, 1892. (Dearness, No. 1,825.) 



Ascomata scattered or gregarious, sessile, gelatinous, pale rose 

 color when fresh, orange when dry, about h mm. diam., disk plane 

 or slightly concave when fresh, more strongly concave when dry, 

 margin thin, spreading and imperfectly laciniate-toothed when fresh, 

 outside clothed with short, pale glandular hairs. Asci clavate-cylin- 

 drical, 40-50 x 5-6//, 8-spored ; paraphyses filiform, not distinctly 

 thickened at the tips. Sporidia biseriate, clavate-oblong, hyaline, 

 continuous, 5-6 x li// (at the thick end.) 



Helotinm lacteum E. & E. 



On decorticated wood, Cazenovia, N. Y. Oct., 1887. O. F. 

 Cook, No. 201, and Marcellus, N. Y. Nov., 1889. (Underwood, 

 No. %Q.) 



Gregarious and subconfluent. Ascomata stipitate, hemispherical, 

 \-\ mm. across, outside and the slightly concave disk with a thin 

 margin, glandular-pruinose, white with a tinge of yellow, the yellow 

 becoming more distinct when dry. Stipe cylindrical, stout, less in 

 length than the diameter of the disk, pale and pruinose. Asci 




146 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



clavate-cylindrical, 75-80x5//, with a slender stipe-like base* 

 mostly curved, with filiform paraphyses. Sporidia overlappiug uni- 

 seriate or biseriate, fusoid-oblong, curved, becoming 1-3-septate, 10- 

 15 (exceptionally 20) x 2.i-3,a. 



This agrees well with the description of H. pallescens, but its 

 smaller size, acutely margined, more distinctly stipitate pruinose 

 cups, and its sporidia often 3-septate seem to separate it from that 

 species. 

 Phialea dearnessii I^. & E. 



On dead stems of Monarda, London, Canada. May, 1890. (Dear- 

 ness, No. 1,713.) 



Erumpent, scattered, substipitate, nearly sulphur yellow. Ascom- 

 ata about f mm. diam., subolivaceous at first, becoming yellow, sub- 

 striate, margin subfimbriate, at first incurved then erect, stipe short, 

 less than diameter of the disk, stout. Asci clavate-cylindrical, sub- 

 sessile, 75-80 X 10/j'-, with stout paraphyses scarcely thickened above. 

 Sporidia biseriate, fusoid, slightly curved, with two large nuclei, 30— 

 35 X 3/i, gradually attenuated to the slender subulate-pointed ends. 



Chlorosplenium salviicolor E. & E. 



On dead stems of Vitis vulpina, St. Martinville, La. March, 

 1889. (Langlois, No. 1,679.) 



Scattered, subhemispherical at first with the margin incurved, 

 soon expanding to nearly plane, l2-2 mm. across, dark sage-green, 

 pruinose outside contracted below into a short stipitate base. Mar- 

 gin subincurved and subundulate when dry. Asci clavate-cylin- 

 drical, slender, sessile, 30 x 22-3/-'.. Paraphyses branched above and 

 conidiiferous. Sporidia biseriate, oblong, minute, hyaline 3-4 x 1- 

 1?//.. Smaller throughout and of a duller shade of green than C. 

 ceruginescens Rehm, and does not stain the subjacent wood. 



Chlorosplenium canadense E. & E. 



In depressions in the rough bark of Tilia, and on the bare wood, 

 London, Canada. Oct., 1892. (Dearness, No. 2,032.) 



Ascomata cespitose or solitary, stipitate, 1-2 mm. diam., closed at 

 first, then open and umbilicate or concave, hymenium olive-black, 

 margin grayish and often subrepand orlobed. Stem 2-4 mm. long, 

 olivaceous, roughish under the leus, becoming black, clothed at base 

 with a light-olive tomentum composed of sparingly branched hairs, 

 and finally becoming black. Asci slender clavate, 130-150 x 8-10//, 




1893,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 147 



8-spored, with filiform paraphyses. Sporidia subbiseriate, cylin- 

 drical, nearly straight, multi-nucleate, hyaline, 30-60 x S;j.. 



Goryne ellUii Berk, Stllhum magnum Pk., is probably the conidial 

 stage. 

 Niptera lithospermi E. & E. 



On dead stems of Lithospermum canescens, Mount Helena, Mon- 

 tana. Oct., 1889. (Anderson & Kelsey, No. 4.) 



Erumpent-superficial, scattered, sessile, about I mm. diam., closed 

 at first and opening tardily, black-brown outside and granular from 

 the projecting cells of the external layer, margin whitish. Disk 

 livid white becoming darker, cup-shaped. Asci oblong-cylindrical, 

 sessile, 45-55 x 8-1 O/j-., with obscure paraphyses. Sporidia biseriate, 

 oblong-cylindrical, 1 -septate and mostly broadly constricted in the 

 middle, hyaline, 12-20 (mostly 12-15) x 3-32y. ends, rounded or 

 sometimes obtusely pointed. Hardly distinguishable from Pyreno- 

 peziza nigrella Fckl. outwardly, but the sporidia are very different. 



MoUisia trametis E. Si, E. 



Parasitic on Polyporns stevendi Berk. On a decaying oak chip, 

 Newfield, N. J. Dec, 1888. 



Growing on the margin and .inner surface of the pores. Cups 

 obconic, 114-150// diam. honey colored, of fibrous structure, the 

 ends of the fibers projecting so that the outer surface and the mar- 

 gin appear granulose-pubescent or as if covered with sharp pointed 

 granules, convex-hemispherical at first and imniarginate, so as to 

 resemble Nectria, but soon, becoming concave with a distinct sub- 

 fimbriate margin. Asci clavate-oblong, 20-23 x 4-5,a, sessile and 

 without paraphyses. Sporidia biseriate or obliquely uniseriate, nar- 

 row-elliptical or clavate oblong, hyaline, continuous, 3^-4? x li-2/JL. 

 The cups are so near the color of the pores of the fungus on which 

 they grow as to be easily overlooked. 

 MoUisia nipteroides E. & E. 



On dead stems of Smila.r, St. Martin ville. La. March, 1889. 

 (Langlois, No. 1,674.) 



Shallow cup-shaped, 1-1 j mm., across contracted below into a 

 very short stem (almost sessile). Umber color but whitened outside 

 by a pruinose coat and a short erect glandular pubescence which is 

 more abundant toward the margin. Asci oblong-cylindrical, 35-40 

 X 5-6//, sessile. Paraphyses branched above and bearing minute 

 globose conidia. Sporidia biseriate, hyaline, 2-3-nucleate, oblongs 




148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



straight or slightly curved, 4-5 x 11-1?//. More or less contracted 

 with the margin incurved when dry. 



Dermatea fusispora E. & E. 



On dead birch limbs, Orono, Maine. (F. L. Harvey.) 



Ascomata gregarious, obconical, erumpent-superficial, about 1 

 mm. diam., subolivaceous outside, the subundulate margin and dull 

 reddish disk white-pruinose ; texture loose and soft. Asci narrow- 

 clavate, paraphysate, 70-75 x Q;j.. Sporidia biseriate, fusoid, hyaline, 

 continuous, 15-20 x 2,'j., slightly curved, continuous. Recognized 

 by its reddish disk and fusoid sporidia. 

 Dermatea ohionanthi E. & E. 



On dead limbs of CMonanthus virginica, Wilmington, Del. May, 

 1890. (Commons, 1,449.) 



Sessile, solitary or oftener cespitose in compact fascicles of 2-4, 

 dark chestnut-color, obconic, with a narrow margin, 5-I mm. diam., 

 disk when dry often subrugose, substance firm and dry. Asci 100- 

 11 X 18-20/j'-. Sporidia biseriate, oblong, continuous, obtuse, slightly 

 curved, granular, hyaline or nearly so, 18-22 x T-S/Jt. 



Dermatella montanensis E. & E. 



On small, dead limbs, among driftwood, Sheridan, Montana. 

 May, 1892. (Mr. and :Mrs. H. M. Fitch.) 



Erumpent-superficial, orbicular, discoid immarginate, l-l mm. 

 diam., livid and subgelatinous when fresh, concave and black with a 

 thin erect margin when dry. Asci oblong-obovate, short-stipitate, 

 p. sp. 72-80 X 18-22//, 8-spored. Paraphyses stout, (2-2^// thick), 

 branched and septate, united above in a dark brown epithecium. 

 Sporidia crowded-biseriate, oblong or clavate-oblong, obtuse, 3-septate 

 slightly constricted at the septa, hyaline, becoming yellow-brown, 

 20-24 X 7-8//. 

 Dermatella caryigena E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Carya, West Chester, Pa. July, 1889. 



Cespitose in clusters of 4-8, nearly black, disk slightly convex 

 when fresh, J-l mm. across with a narrow margin. Asci clavate- 

 cylindrical, 75-80 x 10//, with abundant subolivaceous paraphyses 

 slightly thickened above. Sporidia obovate-oblong, subinequilateral, 

 3-septate, greenish-yellow, 12-14 x 42-6//. The clusters of peri- 

 thecia which are 1-2 mm. across are erumpent through the epider- 

 mis but are attached to it and readily peel off with it. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 149 



Dermatella fraxini E. & E. 



On bark of i^rfmnws, London, Canada. Feb., 1890. (Dearness, 

 No. 1,454.) 



Gregarious and subcespitose, flesh colored, convex, immarginate 

 f-1 mm. diam., contracted below and slightly obconic. Asci clavate- 

 cylindrical, 125-150 x 12-1 5,a. Sporidia subbiseriate, oblong-cylin- 

 drical, subhyaline and uniseptate at first, then brown and 3-5- 

 septate, 25-35 x 10-12/i. 



Dermatella hamamelidis E. & E, 



On dead stems of Hamamelis virginiana, West Chester, Pa. 

 June, 1889. 



Subcespitose, subsessile, about h. mm. diam., convex becoming 

 concave, immarginate, dark reddish-brown, Asci clavate-cylin- 

 drical, narrowed below into a stout substipitate base, 75-80x12- 

 15,a, with linear paraphyses. Sporidia biseriate, oblong, subinequi- 

 lateral, yellowish, crowded with nuclei, 12-15 x 5-6,a. Some of the 

 sporidia were faintly, 3-septate and it is probable that at maturity 

 they all become so. 



In the same locality and at the same time were found specimens 

 of D. purpurescens (on dead chestnut limbs as before) with the 

 sporidia distinctly 3-septate. 



Cenangella violacea E. & E. 



On an old cottonwood board, Rockport, Kansas. Dec, 1892. 

 (Bartholomew, No. 833.) 



Ascomata gregarious, slaty black, sessile with a thick but narrow 

 base, about J mm. diam., disk convex when fresh and deeply rugose, 

 with a narrow obtuse margin, when dry hysteriiform from the rolling 

 together of the opposite sides. Asci obovate, sessile, 35-50 x 15-20,u, 

 8-spored. Sporidia inordinate, obovate, hyaline, uniseptate and con- 

 stricted at the septum, obtuse at the ends, variable in size 12-20 x 

 5-10//, almost exactly the same as those of Glonium llneare. Para- 

 physes stout, jointed, swollen above and violet color (under the 

 microscope), bearing hyaline elliptical, continuous conidia, 5-7 x 

 3-4,a. 



Belonidiam tympanoides E. & E. 



On rotten wood, London, Canada. Sept., 1889. (Dearness, No. 

 948.) 



Gregarious, carnose, sessile, black and closed when dry, hemis- 

 pherical when fresh and i-i mm. diam., disk concave, pallid, with a 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



narrow, obtuse margin. Asci clavate-cylindrical, 80-100 xl2,a, 

 with filiform paraphyses curved at the tips. Sporidia cylindrical, 

 hyaline, multiseptate nearly straight, 40-60 x 2ia. The perithecia 

 are at first nearly globose but as the hymenium develops they 

 become excavated above and finally concave. 

 Blitrydium sabalidis E. & E.^ 



On partly living leaves of Sabal palmetto, Bayou Chene. La. 

 Oct., 1888. (Langlois, No. 1,772.) 



Perithecia scattered or gregarious, black, conical and closed at 

 first, then open exposing the smoky-gray disk which becomes dirty 

 white, margin sublacerate toothed and subincurved, about 1 mm. 

 diam. All the upper part finally falls away leaving only a black 

 circle with a white center. Asci clavate, 40-50 x 15-20//. Para- 

 physes none ? Sporidia crowded brownish-yellow, oblong, 4-septate 

 with the next to the upper cell divided by a longitudinal septum, 

 15-20 X 6-7 p.. 



This is very distinct from Dermatea sabalidis E. & M. ( Cenangium 

 sabalidis in Sacc. Syll. vol. VIII, p. 562.) 

 Diplonaevia melaleuca E. & E. 



On decorticated Poplar, Sand Coulee, Montana. Oct., 1889. 

 (F. W. Anderson, No. 645.) 



Perithecia at first closed and buried in the wood, about 1 mm. 

 diam. carnose-membranaceous, thin and black, soon partly erumpent 

 with a round opening at the apex, the margin narrowly white lacer- 

 ate-fimbriate. Disk livid, concave. Asci subcylindrical, subsessile, 

 75-85 X 6-8,'Ji, surrounded by abundant filiform paraphyses slightly 

 longer than the asci, their tips bent or curved but not distinctly 

 thickened. Sporidia 6-8 in an ascus, biseriate, cylindrical, hyaline, 

 curved, obtuse, 1-septate, 12-15 x 3//. 

 Stictis schizoxyloides E. <fc E. 



On dead limbs among driftwood. Mill Creek, Montana. Jan., 

 1892. (Mrs. L. A. Fitch.) 



Ascomata scattered or gregarious, about half sunk in the wood, 

 the upper part convex-hemispherical and pi'ominent, 1-1 2 mm. diam., 

 pierced in the center with a small round opening, outside cinereo- 

 furfuraceous and rough. The apical opening gradually enlarges 

 till the glauco-cinereous, concave disk is entirely exposed, bordered 

 by the slightly incurved, prominent margin, appearing then like 

 little cups sunk in the wood. Asci oblong-clavate, sessile, 8-spored, 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 151 



55-65 X G-T/Jt. Paraphyses branched and conidiiferous at the tips. 

 Sporidia fasciculate, cylindrical, multinucleate, 45-55x3/^-, straight 

 while lying in the asci, spirally curved when free, hyaline, faintly 

 4-6 (or more) sej)tate. 

 Stictis helicotricha E. & E. 



On leaves and sheaths of Arundinaria tecta, Stark ville, Miss. 

 April, 1890. (Tracy, 1,335.) 



Purplish-black throughout about 2 ram. diam., closed at first, at 

 length opening with a small round mouth with the entire border 

 scarcely prominent. The base of the ascoma projects in a pustuli- 

 form manner on the other side of the leaf. Asci subcylindrical, attenu- 

 ated above, 150-170 x 6,a, with abundant filiform paraphyses broadly 

 recurved at their tips. Sporidia filiforr^, about as long as the asci, 

 interwoven, multinucleate, becoming multiseptate 1-1 5/^. thick. 

 Differs from S. arundinacea Pers. in lacking the prominent, Avhite 

 border around the mouth, and in the strongly recurved tips of the 

 paraphyses and rather narrower sporidia. 



The specific name alludes to the strongly recurved and subinvolute 

 tips of the paraphyses. 

 Nsemacyclus culmigenus Ell. & Langlois. 



On dea,d culms of Panicum proliferum, Louisiana. June, 1888. 

 (Langlois, No. 1,443.) 



Narrow-elliptical, 1-1 J x 2-I mm., acute at each end bordered by 

 the ruptured epidermis. Disk livid-white. Asci oblong, obtusely 

 pointed, 50 x 6fj.. Sporidia linear-fusoid, continuous, about 40,«, 

 long, faintly nucleolate. 

 Propolidium fuscocinereum E. & E. 



On bark of dead willow limbs, London, Canada. (Dearness.) 



Apothecia subcuticular, orbicular, 1-1 j mm. diam., flat, thin, 

 light slate-color, with a slightly elevated, narrow, white margin 

 which is not lobed or cleft, soon piercing the epidermis with a round 

 opening exposing the disk. Asci sessile, clavate-oblong, 50-60 x 12 

 — 15/ji. Paraphyses branched at their tips and conidiiferous, forming 

 a slightly olivaceous epithecium. Sporidia inordinate, cylindrical, 

 curved, 3-septate, hyaline, ends obtuse, 15-23 x 3-3 i/jt. Differs 

 from P. atrovirens (Fr.) in its thinner substance, different color and 

 narrower sporidia. 



Coooophacidium salicinam E. & E.' 



On dead limbs of "SaZia;, Helena, Montana. Jan., 1889. (Rev. F. 

 D. Kelsey, No. 5.) 




152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Ascomata gregarious, erumpent, orbicular, 1 mm. or a little less 

 in diam., depressed-hemispheric at first, then open, discoid and 

 applanate, brown-black outside, margin incurved and finely fimbri- 

 ate-toothed. Disk slightly concave, (when dry) cinereous. Asci 

 sessile, oblong-cylindrical, 75-80 x 8;j.. Paraphyses about equaling 

 the asci, tips brown and bearing small brown, globose 3// diam., 

 conidia. Sporidia vermiform-fusoid, curved when free so as to form 

 a semicircle or even an imperfect spiral, 85-50// long, about 3 or 

 3*// thick in the middle tapering gradually to each end, nucleate, 

 becoming 7-10-pseudo-septate, hyaline. 



* * * ITREDINE^ AND USTILAGINE^. 

 Puccinia distichlydis E. & E, 



On Distichlys maritima, Helena, Montana. Sept., 1891. - (Rev. 

 F. D. Kelsey, No. 23.) 



III. Sori elongated 2-10 mm. long and 1-2 mm. wide, erumpent, 

 naked, nearly black. Teleutospores oblong or oblong-elliptical, 

 45-70 X 15-20//, constricted in the middle, pale-brown, becoming 

 deep chestnut brown ; epispore smooth, thickened at summit which 

 is either regularly rounded or subacuminately or mucronately 

 pointed. Pedicels, 80-100// long, stout (6-7/Jt thick) and persis- 

 tent, yellowish-hyaline. 



Seems distinct from P. graminis, in its longer, more distinctly con- 

 stricted spores on longer, stouter pedicels. 



Puccinia douglasii E. & E. 



On \eaxes of Phlox douglasii, Detroit, JJtah. May, 1891. (M. 

 E. Jones, No. 25.) 



III. Sori amphigenous, minute, J-j mm., naked but closely 

 embraced by the epidermis, rather pale chestnut color or sometimes 

 darker, mostly seriate, a single series of sori being arranged along 

 each side of the midrib, the leaf being slightly thickened. Teleuto- 

 spores oblong-elliptical, 25-55 x 12-15//, chestnut brown, constricted, 

 rounded at the apex or obtusely pointed, epispore smooth, distinctly 

 thickened at the apex, with or without a papilla. 



Differs from P. ^/^»7?i6an'a Pk., in its smaller, naked sori, which 

 are also much smaller than in P. giliae Hark. 

 Puccinia gutierreziae E. & E. (/>. BigelovicB, E. k E., N. A. F. 2,248.) 



On leaves of Gutierrezia euthamia, Digway, Utah. June, 1892. 

 (M. E. Jones, No. 23.) 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 155 



III. Sori amphigenous, 5-I mm. diam., slaty black, hemispherical^ 

 erumpent and soon naked, crowded or confluent, often surrounding 

 and deforming the leaf. Teleutospores oblong, rather palp, brown, 

 constricted, the upper cell mostly narrowed into a bluntly pointed 

 apex, the lower cell rounded at base or narrowed into the stout, 

 slightly colored pedicel, which is 75-100/-t long. Epispore smooth, 

 thickened at the apex. 

 Fucoinia ludibunda E. & E. 



On leaves of Car ex sparganioides, Rockport, Kansas. Oct., 1892. 

 (Bartholomew, No. 764.) 



III. Sori epiphyllous, dark chestnut-brown or nearh^ black, soon 

 naked and prominent, l-3xf-lj mm. Teleutospores clavate or 

 cliivate-elliptical, 40-55 x 12-16/v., constricted at the septum, upper 

 cell more deeply colored and subelliptical, lower cell mostly nar- 

 rower and paler, epispore smooth, distinctly thickened at the apex 

 which is either regularly rounded or prolonged and obtusely pointed 

 or sometimes truncate and in this case, occasionally crowned with 

 2-3 short horn-like processes as in P. coronata. Pedicel hyaline^ 

 stout, about as long as the spore. Besides the uuiseptate spores, 

 quite an appreciable number of spores are found with two septa. 



Puccinia tuberculans E. & E. 



On leaves of ^p/oj9app»s, Muncy, Nevada. July, 1891. (M. E. 

 Jones, No. 21.) 



III. Amphigenous. Sori scattered or confluent, about 1 mm. 

 diam., covered by the thick epidermis which is raised into rather 

 flat tubercles and finally ruptured, color dark chestnut. Teleuto- 

 spores elliptical or oblong-elliptical, 25-40 x 18-22,^, slightly con- 

 stricted, epispore smooth, light chestnut-brown, thickened at the- 

 apex of the spore and generally raised into a subacute papilla.- 

 Pedicels hyaline, 40-60,^ long. 



Seems to be a well marked species on account of the tuberculiforna: 

 sori. 



Puccinia columbiensis E. & E. 



On (Etiotliera biennis, Banfi*, British Columbia. July, 1891. 

 (J. Macoun.) 



III. Amphigenous, on yellowish, slightly thickened spots. Sori 

 minute, not over \ mm. diam., nearly black, erumpent, subconcentric- 

 ally arranged and crowded in dense, orbicular patches 1 2-4 mm. 

 across and whitened by the fragments of the ruptured epidermis. 



11 




154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Teleutospores clavate, 40-50x18-20/^-, constricted at the septum, 

 upper cell broader and darker, lower cell, attenuated below and 

 paler (subhyaline), epispore smooth, strongly thickened at the 

 rounded or subacute apex. Pedicels as long as or a little longer 

 than the spores. 



Very distinct from P. ceyiotherce Vize. 



Puccinia virgata E, & E. 



On dead leaves of Panicum virgahim, Rockport, Kansas. March, 

 1892. (E. Bartholomew, No. 496.) 



III. Sori amphigenous but more fully developed on the lower side 

 of the leaf, linear, often 1 cm. or more long, erumpent and margined 

 laterally by the ruptured epidermis, dark chestnut-brown, almost 

 black. Teleutospores mostly wedge-shaped or clavate but also, some 

 of them oblong, 40-70 x 18-22//, the upper cell shorter and elliptical 

 or subglobose and dark, the lower cell longer, narrower and lighter 

 colored, apex rounded and obtuse or subtruncate, and sometimes a 

 little roughened. Epispore thickened at the apex but without any 

 distinct papilla. 



Has a general resemblance to P. graminis but the spores are 

 different. 

 Fuocinia lygodesmiae E. & E. 



(P. variolans Hark? var. caulicola in Ell. and Ev., N. A. F. 

 2,237.) 



(I.) ? and III. On stenis of Lygodesmia juiicea, Cheyenne Wells, 

 Colorado. July, 1887. (C. H. Demetrio.) 



III. Sori about ^ or f mm. diam., densely cespitose in elongated 

 patches partly or entirely surrounding the stems, and sometimes 

 covered by the whitened cuticle, but finally bare and dark chestnut 

 color. Teleutospores oblong-elliptical, constricted at the septum, 

 mostly rounded at each end, epispore smooth, thickened at the apex 

 and often with a broad, sometimes oblique papilla, 35-45 x 20-23//, 

 on stout, persistent pedicels, 100-120// long. The mode of growth is 

 similar to that of P. enormis Fckl., the stems being more or less 

 swollen where occupied by the clusters of sori. 



This is very distinct from P. harknessii Vize (on Lygodesmia 

 spinosa) but closely allied to P. variolans Harkness, from which, 

 however, it differs in habit and in the epispore being much thinner 

 in the middle of the spore. 



An jEcidium which may belong here, was found on the same host 

 in Montana, by Mr. Anderson. The secidia arising from yellow 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 155 



swellings on the stems and leaves, are about J or f mm. high, erect 

 and deeply fimbriate-laeerate above, the membrane thin and white. 

 Aecidiospores, globose, oblong or irregular in shape, smooth or nearly 

 so, 18-22,'j. in the longer diameter. 



Uromyces macounianus E. & E, 



On Euphorbia sp. (E. maculata affinis), Vancouver Island, 

 British Columbia. Aug., 1887. (Macoun, No. 322.) 



II. III. Sori amphigenous, convex or subhemispherical, surrounded 

 by the ruptured epidermis, mostly crowded, light chestnut color, 

 becoming darker, about 1 mm. diam. Uredospores globose or 

 ovate, echinulate, about 15// diam. Teleutospores globose or ovate- 

 elliptical, pale brown, slightly tuberculo-echinulate especially at the 

 apex which is not thickened and is mostly without any distinct 

 papilla, 14-16,a diam. Pedicels shorter than the spores, hyaline 

 and deciduous. 



Differs from U. euphorbia C. & P., in its smaller, less distinctly 

 roughened spores and crowded, lighter colored sori which often 

 nearly cover one or both sides of the leaf but are not confluent. 

 Uromyces sporoboli E. & E. 



On Sporobohis asper Rockport, Kansas. Sept., 1892. (Bartholo- 

 mew, No. 783.) 



III. Sori mostly hypophyllous, black or nearly so, elongated or 

 linear, 1-4 mm. long, soon naked. Teleutospores of variable shape, 

 subglobose, about 20,«. diam., or obovate, 25-30 x 20-22//, or elon- 

 gated-piriform or oblong, 30-40x20-22//, evenly rounded at the 

 apex or oftener with a distinct papilla, epispore smooth, distinctly 

 thickened at the apex, chestnut-brown ; pedicels 70-100// long 

 mostly colored. 



Differs from U. dactylidis Otth. U. peckianus Fa,r\o\y smd JJ. gram- 

 inicola Burrill in its more robust growth and larger spores, and from 

 the two first mentioned in the absence of paraph yses. 

 ^cidium ludwigiae E. & E. 



On leaves of lAidivigia sphcerocarpa, Ellendale, Sussex Co., Del, 

 Sept., 1892. (Commons, No. 1,983.) 



Spots amphigenous, purplish-red above, more obscure below, 

 scattered or subconfluent, suborbicular, 1-3 mm. diam. Aecidia 

 amphigenous, but more abundant below, either standing singly or 

 oftener collected in a compact cluster forming a little tubercle 1-2 

 mm, diam., as in JSj. myricatum Schw. ; single cups minute (i mm.), 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



margin sublacerate-toothed, erect or nearly so, component cells sub- 

 quadrate or pentagonal, about 15/j- diam., the marginal ones more 

 elongated (20/./.). Spores orange-yellow, subglobose or subangular,. 

 12-15//- diam. 



Berkeley in Grevillea, reports u^eid. epilobii on Ludidgia, but 

 the Delaware specc. on account of their smaller clustered cups and 

 smaller spores, can not be referred to that species. 

 Cerebella spartinae E. <fc E. 



On spikes of Sj^artina gracilis, Biloxi, Miss. Sept., 1892. (Tracy,, 

 No. 1,838.) 



Stromata small (2-4 mm.), thin, subconfluent, extending along 

 one side of the spike, often for its entire length, gyrose- or porose- 

 plicate, dark olive. Primary spores ovate or globose, 6-10/^. diam., 

 pale, with the epispore minutely granular, compound spores sub- 

 quadrate, composed of 3-4 of the primary spores, brown, 12-16// 

 diam., mostly with a short, thick pedicel. 



Differs from C. androj)ogonis in habit and from C. paspali, in its 

 smaller differently shaped spores. 



Sorosporium solidaginis E. & E. 



In the dwarfed and condensed inflorescence of Solidago missouri- 

 ensis, Rockport, Kansas. March, 1892. (E. Bartholomew.) 



Spore masses subglobose, 30-50// diam., consisting of 12-40 or 

 more, closely conglutinated spores about 8// diam., with the epispore 

 delicately warted. The color of the spores is nearly that of burnt 

 umber, rather darker than in «S'. californicum Hark., which this much 

 resembles, but from which it differs in its larger spore masses and 

 spores not so distinctly roughened. 



* * * * SPHJEROPSIDE^. 

 Phyllosticta tenerrima E. & E. 



On living leaves of Saponaria officinalis, London, Canada. Aug., 

 Sept., 1892. (Dearness, No. 1,999.) 



Spots small (1-2 mm.), thin, round, white and transparent and 

 finally deciduous, numerous but mostly not confluent. Perithecia 

 epiphyllous, depressed-hemispherical, thinmembranaceous, 60-1 OOa^ 

 diam., few on a spot. Sporules elliptical or oblong-elliptical, 

 hyaline, 4-6 x 2-2iy., abundant. 



Easily recognized by its thin, white, transparent spots. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 157 



Phyllosticta astericola E. & E. 



On leaves of Aster umbellatus, Kenosha Co., Wisconsin. Aug., 

 1892. (Davis, No. 9,212.) 



Spots suborbicular, 1-2 mm. diam., dark brown, margin mostly 

 subrepand and surrounded with a yellowish discoloration, often con- 

 fluent, paler below. Perithecia epiphyllous, prominent, black, 150- 

 200,a diam. Sporules abundant, almond-shaped, hyaline, mostly 

 2-nucleate, 8-11 x 4//. 

 Phyllosticta perforans E. & E. 



On leaves of Solanum dulcamara, London, Canada, (Dearness.) 



Spots araphigenous, small (2-3 mm.), thin and transparent, round 

 or subangular, with a narrow, yellowish, slightly raised border on 

 both sides. Perithecia mostly epiphyllous, few, sublenticular, black, 

 perforated, 100-120// diam. Sporules elliptical, subolivaceous 

 (smoky-hyaline), 82-05 x25//. 



Differs from Ph. dxilcamarcB Sacc, in its thin white, mostly smaller 

 spots and subolivaceous sporules. The spots are sometimes confluent 

 and finally deciduous and are sometimes seen partly enclosed in the 

 larger brown spots of Ph. dulcamarce. 



Phyllosticta nicotiana E. & E. 



On leaves of tobacco. North Carolina. Oct., 1891. (Com. Ger- 

 ald McCarthy.) 



Spots araphigenous, large (i-l^ cm.), irregular in shape, pale 

 dirty brown, lighter in the center, the margin reddish-zonate. Peri- 

 thecia araphigenous, numerous, erumpent-superficial, black, depressed- 

 hemispherical, T mm. diara., with a broad papilliform ostiolum. 

 Sporules oblong-elliptical, oi-5 x H/-*.. This differs from Ph. tabaei 

 Pass., in its erumpent-superficial perithecia and smaller, different 

 shaped sporules. The species of Ph. tabaei in Sydow's 31. marchica 

 (2,375), has spots much like this but less definitely limited, with 

 perithecia less numerous and buried in the leaf so that only their 

 apices are visible, and sporules globose or ovate, 4-6,a in their 

 longer diameter and about 3-4,a in the their lesser diam. 



Phyllosticta maculans E. k E. 



On fallen leaves of Populus monilifera, Rockport, Kansas. Aug., 

 1892. (E. Bartholomew, No. 682.) 



Perithecia mostly epiphyllous, erumpent-superficial, black, sub- 

 _globose, 50-70// diam., pierced above, collected in groups, 2-3 mm. 

 in diameter, but sometimes the perithecia are scattered between the 




158 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



groups. Sporules oblong-cylindrical, hyaline, continuous, straight 

 or very slightly curved, 10-14 x S-S^/Jt. There are no distinct spots, 

 but the numerous groups of perithecia give the leaf a mottled appear- 

 ance. 



Phoma subcircinata E. & E. 



On pods of Lima bean, Newfield, N. J. Oct., 1892, 



Perithecia subcuticular, 70-90/^ diam., sublenticular, subconfluent 

 pierced above, membranaceous, black, subcircinately arranged in 

 large (1 cm.), round, faintly zonate spots, finally spreading and 

 occupying the entire surface of the pods. Sporules oblong-elliptical,^ 

 hyaline, 2-nucleate, 5-6 x 2-22//, on simple basidia rather longer 

 than the sporules. 



This differs from Phoma leguminum West., in the subcircinate 

 arrangement of the perithecia and the rather longer, binucleate 

 sporules. 

 Phoma caulophylli E. & E. 



On dead stems of Caulophylhnn thalictroides, London, Canada. 

 June, 1892. (Dearness, No. 1,864.) 



Perithecia gregarious, elliptical, 5-f mm. in the longer diameter,, 

 covered by the thin epidermis which is raised and blackened over 

 them and pierced by the minute, papilliform ostiolum, Sporules 

 oblong-fusoid, hyaline, 2-nucleate, 5-12 x 25-3//. 

 Sphaeronema negundinis (E. & E., Ell. & Evrht. North Am. Fungi, 2775.) 



On bark of dead Negundo aceroides, Fairmount Park, Phila- 

 delphia, Pa. June, 1890. Coll. Hugo Bilgram, com., W. C. 

 Stevenson, Jr. 



Perithecia thickly gregarious, conic-cylindrical, black, 1-1-1 mm. 

 high and about f mm. thick, truncate at the apex and crowned with 

 a flesh-colored globule of ejected sporules, which are hyaline, fusoid, 

 3-4-nucleate, 12 x 3//. 



S. pruinosum B. & C. has the perithecia acute at the apex and has 

 larger sporules. In one species the perithecia are nearly cylin- 

 drical. 

 Asteroma saxifragae E. & E. 



On leaves of Saxifraga bracteosa, St. George Island, Bering Sea. 

 Sept., 1891. J. M. Macoun. 



Epiphyllous. Perithecia globose, 50-80// diam., of coarse cellular 

 structure densely crowded and connected by stromatic matter, form- 

 ing a continuous black crust mixed with brown, creeping hyphse and 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 159' 



covering the entire upper surface of the leaf. Sporules poorly devel- 

 oped, apparently oblong-elliptical, 5 x 2ij-, borne on stout sporophores 

 arising from the inner surface of the perithecia, with oil globules 

 intermixed. 



Actinonema psoralese E. &, E. 



On living leaves of Psoralea digitata, Rockport, Kansas. June, 

 1892. (E. Bartholomew, No. 627.) 



Spots amphigenous, definite, suborbicular, rusty brown 2-4 mm. 

 diam. Perithecia discoid, black, rough, 75-90/j'- diam., mostly con- 

 fluent, forming a black crust about 1 mm. diam., in the middle of 

 the spot, mostly amphigenous. Sporules oblong, hyaline, 2-nucleatey 

 12-15 X 3 U^'/. 



Asterinula dearnessii E. & E. 



On leaves of Gerardia quercifolia, London, Canada. August, 

 1892. (Dearness, No. 1,966.) 



Perithecia subdiscoid, brownish-black, j-J mm. diam., amphige- 

 nous, scattered, entirely superficial. Sporules oblong, uniseptate, 

 olivaceous, abundant, 9-12 x B/j.. 

 Vermicularia ochrochaeta E. & E. 



On the lower surface a decaying maple leaf, near Ottawa, Canada. 

 Sept., 1891. (J. Macoun.) 



Perithecia scattered, superficial, black, membranaceous, sub- 

 globose, astomous, of radiate-cellular structure, about half a mm. 

 diam., sparingly clothed with long (200-300,«), pale, straight spar- 

 ingly septate hairs about 8// thick at the base and tapering above. 

 Sporules subcylindrical, very slightly curved, obtuse, hyaline, 

 nucleate, 6-7 x H//.. 



Dothiorella frazini E. & E. 



On dead Fraxinus, London, Canada. April, 1892. (J. Dear- 

 ness.) 



Perithecia globose, black, buried in the bark, thickly scattered, 

 either singly or 2-4 together in subvalsiform groups, their short sub- 

 papilliform, black ostiola erumpent through the epidermis, with the 

 general appearance of a minute Valsa. Sporules elliptical, hyaline, 

 18-20 x 10-12//, on stout basidia. 



The ostiola merely rupture the bark but do not rise above it. 

 Found associated with Endoxyla Jraxini E. & E. 



Differs from D. fraxinea Sacc. and Roum., in its buried perithecia 

 and larger sporules. 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Cytispora annulata E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Negundo aceroides with Sphcerojjsis albescens E. 

 <fe E., Brookings, South Dakota. Oct., 1891. (Thos. A. Williams.) 



Stroraata minute, convex, multilocular, hardly exceeding 1 mm. 

 in diam., subcuticular, slate-color inside, furnished with a single 

 ■central pore which opens through the apex of a minute pustule and 

 is surrounded by a minute light colored ring. Sporules oblong, 

 straight or only slightly curved, hyaline, continuous, 5-6xl-lia. 

 The epidermis is finally blackened directly over the pustules, except 

 the ruptured margin which forms a pale ring around the ostiolum. 



This differs from C macilenta Rob. and Desm. as shown by the 

 specc. in Desvi. exsicc. in its much smaller sporules and more 

 numerous cells. 

 Cytispora carnea E. A E. 



On basswood bark, Orono, Maine. (F. L. Harvey.) 



Stromata convex, 3-4 mm. diam., granulose-tomentose and gray- 

 ish-black outside, multilocular and grayish-black, streaked with white 

 within, uneven above and furnished with 3-4 or more stout ostiola 

 which rupture and raise the epidermis and are crowned with a flesh 

 colored globule of discharged sporules which are oblong, hyaline 

 (under the microscope), obtuse, straight, 8-12 x S/j--. The stromata 

 do not penetrate deeply into the inner bark and are not circum- 

 scribed by any black line but the bark is more or less blackened. 



Ascochyta rhei E. & E. 



{Phyllostida rhei E. & E., Journ. Mycol. I, p. 145.) 



More perfect specc. on leaves of Rheum rhaponticum from Rock- 

 port, Kansas (Bartholomew, No. 713), show that this is an Asco- 

 chyta, the sporules becoming uniseptate ; they are also mostly nar- 

 rowed in the middle and are larger than in the Newfield specc. 

 (7-12 X 3j-4,'/.) The spots are about the same only not so distinctly 

 zonate, but the perithecia are smaller. 

 Sphaeropsis vitigena E. &. E. 



On dead shoots of Vitis (cult.), Rockport, Kansas. Feb., 1892. 

 (E. Bartholomew, No. 507.) 



Perithecia globose, minute, about \ mm. diam., numerous, buried 

 in the bark and raising the epidermis into numerous small pustules 

 which are pierced by the papilliform ostiolum. Sporules oblong- 

 elliptical, brown, 18-20 x 8-10//, not nucleate or septate. 



Quite different from S. viticola Cke. in Rav., F. Am., 542 (on 

 leaves of Vitis), and also from S. uvarum B. & C. (on the fruit.) 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



Botryodiplodia acerina E. & E. 



On bark of dead Acer rubrum, London, Canada. June, 1892. 

 (J. Dearness.) 



Peritheeia ovate-globose, obtuse and rounded above, 2 mm. diam., 

 erumpent in densely compacted clusters, 2-3 mm. across and 

 bordered by the upturned epidermis. Sporules elliptical, brown, 

 mostly uniseptate but not constricted, 15-22 x 12-13,a. 



This occurs with Valsa multiplex, and may be its pycnidial stage. 

 Camarosporium mali E. ct E. 



On decorticated limbs of aj^ple trees, London, Canada. May, 

 1892. (Dearness, No. 1,837.) 



Peritheeia gregarious, erumpent-superficial, subhemispherical, 

 mostly about + mm. diam., becoming smooth and subshining at the 

 apex. Ostiolum papilliform. Sporules variable in shape and size, 

 from globose to oblong-elliptical or biconical, and 8-16x6-10/^ 

 (mostly 12-15 x6-7/j'. brown, about 3-septate at first, becoming 5- 

 8-septate with one or more of the cells divided by a longitudiual 

 septum. 



This differs from C. robliiice in its much more variable sporules 

 and in habit. 

 Camarosporium graminicolum E. & E. 



On dead culms of Ammophila arenaria, Long Island, New York. 

 July, 1892. (Smith Ely Jelliffe, M. D.) 



Peritheeia innate, minute (] mm.), scattered, appearing as black 

 specks through the slightly raised cuticle. Sporules biconic-ellip- 

 tical, 20-30x12-15;/, 3-7-septate, Avith one or two longitudinal 

 septa across the middle cells, pale brown, the terminal cells sub- 

 hyaline, resembling the sporidia of Fenestella jirinceps Tul. 

 Hendersonia alternifoliae E. & E. 



On bark of dead Cornus alteriiifolia London, Canada. June, 

 1892. (Dearness, No. 1890.) 



Peritheeia scattered, small, subcuticular, raising the epidermis 

 into little pustules, with the obtuse apex erumpent but not prom- 

 inent. Sporules oblong-elliptical, hyaline and granular at first, 

 becoming yellow-brown and 3-septate, large 22-30 x 1 1-12//. There 

 are also globose sporules 10-15// diam., brownish like the others, 

 and fusoid-falcate, hyaline spores 35-45 x 3// granular and continu- 

 ous. Whether this is the pycnidial stage of Massaria cornl Fckl. 

 we cannot say. 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Differs from H.fiedleri West andH.dedpiensThum. iu its much 

 larger sporules. 



Hendersonia staphyleae E. & E. Joum. Mycol. I, p. 151. 



On dead twigs of Staphylea trifolia, Wilmington, Del. April, 

 1892. (A. Commons, No. 1939.) 



The following diagnosis of this species is given as supplementary 

 to the brief notice in Journ. Mycol. 



Perithecia evenly scattered, numerous, pustuliform with a flat 

 base, seated on the surface of the inner bark and covered by the 

 blackened epidermis, which is not laciniately ruptured, but merely 

 pierced by the apex of the perithecium. Sporules, oblong-fusoid, 

 pale brown, 3-septate, and slightly constricted at the septa, narrower 

 below with the lower cell hyaline, 12-20 (mostly 15-18) x 4-5//, on 

 basidia about as long as the sporules. 



Differs from H. sarmentorum West in not penetrating the inner 

 bark and in its longer, paler sporules on shorter basidia. The same 

 thing has been sent from Kansas (Kell. and Swingle, 1,237) on 

 Euonymus atropurpureus. 



Stagonospora strictae E. & E. 



On leaves of Carex stricla, Rockport, Kansas. Jan., 1892. 

 (Elam Bartholomew.) 



Spots elliptical, dirty white, 3-5xli-2 mm., with a darker 

 border. Perithecia scattered on the spots, sunk in the parenchyma 

 of the leaf, brown, or when dry nearly black, 100-150,^ diam., per- 

 forated above, visible on the upper surface through the thin epidermis. 

 Sporules elliptic-oblong, hyaline, 2-septate and constricted at the 

 septa, 20-30 x 8-lOi/y.. 



The spots are like those of " Phleospora " (Stagonospora) caricis 

 E. & E., but the sporules are different. 



Stagonospora sclerotioides E. it E. 



On decorticated wood of Ostrya virginica, London, Canada. 

 March, 1892. (J. Dearness.) 



Perithecia subseriate, erumpent-superficial, brownish-black, elon- 

 gated at first, then globose, sometimes subconfluent, about 1 mm. 

 diam., of horn-like consistence, white inside, seated on indefinite, 

 subelongated spots limited by a narrow, black, circumscribing line 

 which penetrates deeply into the wood. Sporules oblong, hyaline, 

 2-nucleate, 6-7 x \\ii. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 163 



Septoria mitellae E. & E. 



On leaves of Mitella diphylla, near the ^lich. Ag. College. May, 

 16th, 1892. (G. H. Hicks.) 



Spots suborbicular or irregular rusty brown, becoming white or 

 whitish in the center, with a rather broad, reddish-brown margin, 

 2-4 mm. diam., often numerous. Peritheciaepiphylloiis, black, sub- 

 prominent, scattered or sometimes only 1-3 in the center of the spot, 

 depressed hemispherical, 75-80," diam., pierced at the apex and 

 blackened around the orifice. Sporules acicular, hyaline, continuous, 

 straight or only slightly curved, acute, 15-22 x Ip.. 

 Septoria agropyri E. k E. 



On leaves of Acjropyrum repeas, Racine, Wis. July, 1892. 

 (Davis, No. 925.) 



Perithecia about 75//. diam., buried in the substance of the leaf 

 and only visible as minute, black specks on the upper surface. They 

 appear at first on narrow, pale yellowish strips soon confluent later- 

 ally and finally changing to a uniform brown color and occupying 

 a great part of the leaf Sporules rod-shaped, slightly curved, ends 

 subacute, faintly nucleate, continuous, 18-25 x li/j., hyaline. 



Differs from S. gracilis Pass, on the same host, in its sporules 

 twice as large, and in its different habit. 

 Septoria purpureocincta E. <fe E. 



On leaves of Prunns americana, Rockport, Kansas. Sept., 1892. 

 (Barthelomew, No. 709.) 



Spots amphigenous, irregular in shape, whitish in the center, with 

 a broad, shaded dark purple border above, rusty brown and without 

 any distinct border below. Perithecia epiphyllous, globose, open 

 above, 75-85// diam., brownish black, numerous, subprominent. 

 Sporules filiform, hyaline, 20-30 x 2//, with a row of very distinct 

 nuclei but not septate (in any of the specc. examined.) 



The character of the spots will easily separate this from any of 

 the other species on Prmins. 

 Septoria aurea E. & E. 



On leaves of Bibes aureum, Rockport, Kansas (Bartholomew, 

 No. 49), and Racine, Wis. (Davis, No. 9,037.) 



Spots amphigenous, greenish, definite, darker and mostly zonate 

 toward the margin, 2-4 mm. diam., often concave below. Peri- 

 thecia crowded in the middle of the spots, mostly hypophyllous, 80- 

 100/x diam., subprominent, but innate in the substance of the leaf. 




164 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Sporules filiform, rather broader above, multinucleate, becoming 3- 

 5-septate, hyaline, 30-55 x 15-2,^.. 



Var. destruens (Bartholomew, No. 703, Sept., 1892), has the tips 

 of the leaves and often the entire leaf mottled with black and yellow, 

 becoming brown and dead, and the sporules 40-75 x 2-24/a. 



This differs from S. ribis Desm. in its septate sporules and the 

 different character of the spots. 



Septoria gaillardiae E. <t- E. 



On leaves of Gaillardia pulehella, Rockport, Kansas. A.ug., 



1892. (E. Bartholomew.) 



Spot amphigenous, orbicular, light brown, with a dull white center ; 

 both the dull white center and the larger, brown spot in which it is 

 included, are surrounded by a narrow, raised border. Perithecia 

 amphigenous, 75-90//, seraierumpent, black, either confined to the 

 white central spot or often scattered over the white and brown. 

 Sporules filiform, nucleate, 45-65 x 1 i-l*/v.. 



Septoria glabra E. & E. 



On leaves of ^Eseulus (/^aira, Indianapolis, Indiana. Aug., 1880. 

 (Coll., W. J. Beale, com., G. H. Hicks.) 



Perithecia hypophyllous, globose, black, 75-85// diam., scattered 

 on dark brown spots which are more or less whitened, especially 

 above, by the thin bleached epidermis. The spots are situated 

 either in the green parts of the leaf or on dead red-brown areas, and 

 are rather irregular in outline, 2-3 mm. diam., with a rather broad, 

 not raised, dark border, the central portion more or less whitened. 

 Sporules filiform, continuous, nearly straight, faintly nucleate, 30- 

 45xli-2/... 



This is certainly different from S. cesculi (Lib.) which (sec. 

 specc. in Sacc. M. Ven., Thiim. M. U. and Briosi and Cavarra's 

 F. Parass.) has only 1-3 perithecia on small (1-1 2 mm.), white 

 spots, with shorter, thicker sporules arcuate curved and about 

 3-septate. 



Briosi and Cavarra remark that Septoria cescidina Thiim. and S. 

 hippocastani B. & Br., are hardly more than forms of »S'. cesculi and 

 the species in our Exsiccati seem to warrant that conclusion. 



Septoria lepachidis E. & E. 



On leaves of Lepachys columnaris, Rockport, Kansas. June, 



1893. (Mr. E. Bartholomew, No. 584.) 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 165- 



Spots numerous, dark grayish-brown, 2-4 mm. diam., suborbicular, 

 definite but without any distinct border, amphigenous. Perithecia 

 epiphyllous, numerous, subprominent, pale, becoming darker, globose, 

 75-80,'j'. diam., perforated above. Sporules abundant, fusoid, hyaline, 

 continuous, faintly nucleolate, straight or a little curved, 12-30 

 (mostly 15-20) xli-U/^-. 



Differs from -S'. infuscata Winter (on Lepachys pinnata), in its 

 much shorter sporules. 

 Septoria negundinis E. & E. 



On leaves of j\%M«(Zo aceroides, London, Canada. Aug., 1892. 

 (Dearness, No. 19.) 



Spots punctiform, minute, white, amphigenous, with a single peri- 

 thecium in the center, often confluent forming an irregular shaped, 

 angular white spot 2-3 ram. diam. Perithecia at first pale, then 

 black, rather large, the papilliform apex erumpent, amphigenous, 

 but more distinct above. Sporules cylindrical, mostly regularly 

 curved, nucleate, then 1-3-septate, 25-50 x 2/7.. 



This must be closely allied to S. acerella Sacc, but that is said to 

 have sporules only 20-22,a long, subcontinuous. 



Septoria carpigena E. & E. 



On dead twigs and fruit of Celtis occidentalis, Mount Cuba, Dela- 

 ware. March, 1892. (A. Commons.) 



Perithecia erumpent in small clusters surrounded by the margin 

 of the ruptured epidermis, ovate-globose, black, rough, with a conic- 

 papilliform, smooth, black ostiolum. Sporules abundant, vermicular, 

 curved or undulate, 4-or more-nucleate, hyaline, continuous, obtuse, 

 20-30 X 3//. 

 Micropera fraxini E. & E. 



On bark of dead limbs of Fraxinus mnericana, London, Canada. 

 Apr., 1892. (Dearness, No. 1,808.) 



Perithecia (cells) peripherical, minute, immersed, with the apex 

 slightly prominent and sometimes collapsing, seated on an olivaceous, 

 hemispheric-tuberculiform erumpent-superficial stroma (paler within) 

 2-1 mm. diam. Sporules cylindrical, hyaline, curved, nucleate, 

 obtuse, about 20 x 5//, borne on stout basidia 15-20 x 3/^.. 



Seems almost to be a stylosporous Dothidea. 

 Excipula canadensis E. k E. 



On bleached wood of elm rails, London, Canada. Aug., 1892, 

 (Dearness, No. 1,985.) 




166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Perithecia gregarious, erumpent-superficial, thin, black, i--J mm. 

 diam., closed, globose and smooth at first, soon broadly open above 

 and cup-shaped, with the margin substriate and more or less distinctly 

 fringed Avith short, brown hairs. Sporules navicular, continuous, 

 olivaceous, 5-6 x 21 ii, ends acute, borne on simple, stout, olivaceous 

 basidia about 12 x 2\ij.. 



Excipulina hicksiana E. & E. 



On bleached, decorticated wood, Michigan. (G. H. Hicks.) 

 Perithecia, scattered, globose or oblong and hysteriiform, i-| mm. 

 in the longer diameter, thin, membranaceous, obsolete below, darker 

 and more coarsely granular toward the margin, at first closed, soon 

 opening with a longitudinal dehiscence like a Hysterium, base 

 adnate to the wood, hymenium, pale. Sporules oblong-cylindrical, 

 hyaline, obtuse, 2-3-septate, 8-15 x 3-4//, straight or slightly 

 curved ; texture loosely cellular, thin, not fibrous. 



Catinula saligna E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Salix, London, Canada. Feb., 1890. (Dear- 

 ness. No. 1,420.) 



Perithecia scattered, erumpent, short cylindrical or obconical, sub- 

 stipitate, about 1 mm. high, broadly perforated or open at the apex, 

 black and subshining. Sporules oblong-cylindrical, hyaline, con- 

 tinuous, 15-20 X 6-7/t, on basidia 15-20 x 3//. 



This differs from C. turgida Desm. only in its more elongated 

 perithecia and rather narrower sporules. A form occurs on Car- 

 pinus (Dearness, No. 1,565) that cannot be distinguished from G. 

 turgida, and it may be as well to consider our C. saligna as only a 

 robust form of that species. 

 Hainesia borealis E. & E. 



Ell. & Evrht. N. A. F., 2,785. 



On leaves of Galium boreale, British Columbia. July, 1889. 

 (J. Macoun.) 



Acervuli hy^jophyllous, scattered, convex-discoid, 175-200/^- 

 diam., flesh-colored becoming darker when dry, subcuticular at first 

 but soon erumpent-prorainent. Conidia allantoid, hyaline, slightly 

 curved, 5-6 x 1;/ on simple, slender basidia 12-15 x l-H/J- 



The parts of the leaf occupied by the fungus soon become pale 

 brown and dead. Hainesia rubi (West.) has been sent from 

 Ontario, Canada, by Mr. Dearness. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 167 



Gloeosporium davisii E. & E. 



On pods of Vicia amerieana, Berry ville, Wis. July, 1890. 

 (Davis, No. 927.) 



Occupying small (1--2 mm.), dead spots on the pods. Acervuli 

 innate, erumpent in small, pale rose colored pustules. Conidia 

 oblong-elliptical, hyaline, continuous, 5-8 x 3-4/-'.. 



Distinguished from G. vicice E. & E., as well as from G. legumi- 

 nis C. & H., by its much smaller conidia. 

 Glceosporium americanum E. k E. 



On leaves of Vida amerieana, Berry ville, Wis. July, 1892. 

 {Davis, No. 928.) 



Spots amphigenous, dull green, 2-3 mm. diam., suborbicular and 

 rather indefinitely limited, only two or three on a leaf. Acervuli 

 innate, about 80,a diam., pale rose color, erumpent above. Conidia 

 oblong, obtuse, 12-16 x 3-3 J/x, on basidia of about the same length. 



Comes nearest G. kurzianiim Niessl, but a comparison with species 

 of that species in Rab. F. Eur. shows the habit to be quite different. 

 Gl. vicice Fauntrey and Roum. has conidia, 16 x 12/j.. 

 Gloeosporium ribioolum E. & E. 



On fruit of Ribes (English goosebery, cult.), Wilmington, Del. 

 June, 1892. (A. Commons, No. 1,961.) 



Acervuli minute, numerous, crowded, pale, soon erumpent and 

 subconfluent in orbicular patches 5 cm. across and of a pale orange 

 -color. Spores oblong, 7-12 x S-Sifj., on stout, densely fasciculate 

 basidia about 20,'j. long. Seems most nearly allied to G. phomoides 

 Sacc. 



Gloeosporium caryae E. & E. (N. A. F., 2783.) 



On leaves of Carya alba, London, Canada. (Dearness.) 



Spots amphigenous, suborbicular, indefinite, brown, 1-2 cm. diam. 



Acervuli hypophyllous, numerous, 80-1 50/t diam. Sporules oblong, 



continuous, hyaline, 7-10 x 1-1 J/j. 



Cylindrosporium phaceliae E. & E. 



On leaves of Phacelia sericea, Basin, Montana. July, 1892. 

 (Kelsey, No. 1.) 



Amphigenous. Acervuli minute, buried, numerous, the exuding 

 conidia making the surface of the leaf white-farinose. Conidia 

 oblong or cylindrical, variable in length (15-40 xS-Sh^-) 




168 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Cylindrosporium caryigenum E. it E. N. A. F., 2451. 



On living leaves of Carya amara, London, Canada. (Dearness.) 

 Hypophyllous, spots indefinite, pale at first, finally brownish and 



visible on both sides of the leaf. Acervuli, minute, numerous, pale. 



Sporules erumpent below, cylindrical, curved, with a row of nuclei, 



25-40 X 3//-. 



In the early stage of growth, this has the aspect of a Ramularia. 



Marsonia rhabdospora E. & E. 



On leaves of Populxis grandidentata, Newfield, N. J. Sept.-Oct., 

 1892. 



Spots araphigenous, numerous, subangular, 1-4 mm. diam., with 

 a cinereous-white center and definite, narrow, dark margin, sur- 

 rounded with a yellow aureola. Acervuli hypophyllous, flesh 

 colored, erumpent, often seated around the margin of the spot with 

 one or more in the center. Conidia cylindrical, nearly straight, 

 uniseptate, 20-30 x 2?/^., ends obtuse, much resembling the sporules 

 of Septoria populi Desm. which is quite difierent from this, having 

 true perithecia which are also epiphyllous and nearly black. 



The spots in our fungus are at first minute and brownish-black,, 

 but even then surrounded by the yellow aureola. 

 Coryneum comicolum E. & E. 



On the inner surface of dead bark of Cormis alternifolia, London, 

 Canada. June, 1892. (Dearness, No. 1,892.) 



Acervuli erumpent, various, tubercular, pulvinate or convex, 

 black, punctiform or 1 mm. or more in diam., and subconfluent, 

 appearing much like the masses of erumpent spores of some Melan- 

 conium. Conidia vermiform-fusoid, 6-8-septate, the end cells 

 hyaline, the others brown, mostly curved, 35-45 x 7-8//, on basidia 

 about half as long or even less. 



***** HYPHOMYCETEJE. 

 Botrytis pannosa E. .1 E. 



On rotten maple, Seattle, Washington. March, 1892. (Miss 

 Parker, No. 60.) 



Hyphje efiiised and interwoven, brown, subcontinuous, and sub- 

 oppositely branched, the ends of the branches mostly a little swollen 

 and spiculiferous, bearing the abundant, ovate, hyaline conidia, 5- 

 6x3-3|/i. 



The tufts of hyphffi form, an olive-brown, rather thick, loosely 

 felted layer several centimeters in extent. 



This is ^.fairmani E. & E. in Herb. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 169 



Botrytis affinis E. A; E. 



On decorticated wood of a decayiug, white ash log, London, 

 Canada. Nov., 1892. (Dearness, No. 2,073.) 



Forms a thin olive-black velvet-like coating on the surface of the 

 wood. Hyphie erect, brownish-olive, sparingly and obscurely septate, 

 more or less minutely rauriculate-roughened, about 4// diam., sub- 

 dichotomously branched, the branches near the summit mostly 

 opposite, short (12-15,a), erect, slightly swollen and roughened at 

 their tips where are attached in loose clusters the olive-brown, 

 globose or elliptical conidia which are 4-5/-/. in their longer 

 diameter. 



Scarcely distinguishable externally from B. JuUginosa C. & E., 

 but the mode of branching is different and the conidia larger. 



Ramularia lethalis E. & E. 



On living leaves of ^cer ruhriim, London, Canada. June, 1890. 

 (Dearness, No. 1,730). Sent also from Michigan by G. H. Hicks. 



Hypophyllous, forming at first small, irregular shaped, lead- 

 colored patches along the midrib and nerves, generall}' toward the 

 apex of the leaf, which soon turns black in these affected spots and 

 soon spreads over the upper half of the leaf which then becomes black 

 and dead, and soon crumbles away. The blackened areas enclose 

 paler, whitish spots. Hyphse subfasciculate, simple, continuous, 

 hyaline, 10-15 x l2-2/v., bearing at their tips the subcatenulate, 

 oblong, hyaline continuous, 5-10 x 2-2 2 ,« conidia. 



The fungus is very destructive to the leaves, 

 Clasterisporium pulchrum E, & E. 



On bark of dead Carpinxis americana, London, Canada. June, 

 1892. (Dearness, No. 1,900.) 



Effused, velvety, black. Creeping hyphse, septate, branched, 

 interwoven, with here and there tufts of paler, straight, erect-spread- 

 ing lance-shaped hyphse arising from a membranaceous, perithecium- 

 like base. Conidia clavate, mostly a little curved, truncate or 3-4- 

 cleft at the apex, 7-9-septate, the upper cell paler and armed with 

 about 4 lateral boss-like tubercles or short horns. The whole prob- 

 ably forms the conidial stage of some Pyrenomycete, of the family 

 Lasiosphcerieoe. 

 Dendryphium sphaerioides E. & E. 



On Bigelovia douglasii, Sprucemont, Nevada. Oct., 31, 1892. 

 (M. E. Jones, No. 6.) 



12 




170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Forming black tuberculiform tufts on the dead stems, about 

 1 mm. across and composed of closely packed chains of conidia about 

 120a long and 10-12/j'- broad, the single conidia being elliptical, 

 brown, uniseptate and constricted, about 20 x lO-12/Jt, placed end to 

 end without any connecting cell, 



Cercospora nicotianae E. & E. 



On leaves of tobacco, Raleigh, N. C. Oct., 1891, (com., Gerald 

 McCarthy.) 



Spots amphigenous, pale, becoming white, 2-5 mm. diam,, with a 

 narrow, inconspicuous, reddish, slightly raised border, often concave 

 below, Hyphse tufted, amphigenous, 75-100 x A-dfi, 2-3-times 

 geniculate above and sometimes with a short, lateral branch brown, 

 septate. Conidia slender, 40-75 x 3-3^/^, hyaline, slightly curved, 

 multiseptate (mostly about 6-septate.) 



Cercospora nesaeae E. & E. 



On leaves of Nemea verticillaia, Milford, Del. Sept., 1892. 

 (Commons, No. 1,984.) 



Spots amphigenous, scattered, suborbicular or irregular, 2-4 mm. 

 diam,, with a shaded, purple border. Hyphae epiphyllous, tufted, 

 35-45 X 2i-3,y-, continuous, olivaceous or srnoky-hyaline, geniculate 

 above, Conidia clavate-cylindrical, hyaline, 3-5-(mostly 3-) septate, 

 25-75 X 2A-3,a. 



The minute black tufts of hyphse under the hand lens resemble 

 the perithecia of some Septoria or Phyllostida. 

 Cercospora weigelae E. & E, 



On leaves of Weigelce (cult.), Newfield,N, J, Sept., 1889. Sent 

 also from Washington, D. C, by Miss E. A. Southworth. 



Spots small (1-2 mm.), white, with a broad, shaded, dark purple 

 border. Hyphse in small tufts scattered thickly over the central 

 part of the spot, geniculate and toothed above 70-90 x 3 5-4 J//, brown, 

 continuous. Conidia terminal slender clavate, hyaline, nucleate, 

 50-75 X 2*-3,a. 

 Cercospora crotonis E. & E. 



On leaves of Croton texensis, Rockport, Kansas. Aug., 1892. 

 (Bartholomew, No, 359,) 



Spots indistinct, pallid, not definitely limited, finally subconfluent 

 and brownish, giving the leaf a dirty withered look. Tufts mostly 

 epiphyllous, in small but dense fascicles, appearing under the lens 

 like minute, black grains thickly scattered over the spots. Hyphae 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 171 



olive-brown, continuous, nucleate, torulose above 35-50 x 4,a. 

 Conidia obclavate, brownish, obtuse, nearly straight, faintly 1-4- 

 septate, 40-90 x 4-5//. 



Quite distinct from C. crotonifolia Cke. which is on definite spots 

 and has much shorter hyphse and smaller conidia. 



Cercospora ditissima E. & E. 



On leaves of Gnicus undulatus, Rockport, Kansas. June, 1892. 

 (E. Bartholomew, No. 605.) 



Spots dirty brown, subindefinite, suborbicular, 3-5 mm. diam. 

 Hyphse amphigenous, densely tufted on a dark colored, tubercular 

 base 75-85,a diam., short (15-20x25-3/Jt.), subhyaline, toothed 

 above and subobtuse, simple, continuous, 30-75 x 4:-6fj., subhyaline, 

 straight, oblong or obclavate, 3-5-septate. 



Cheiromyces comatus E. & E. 



On decorticated Azalea, Newfield, N. J. June, 1877. 



Gregarious on the bleached surface of the wood. Acervuli minute 

 (s-J mm. long), subhysteriiform-erumpent, black. Conidia multi- 

 partite, the divisions (nearly 100 in number) subcylindrical, some- 

 what attenuated above, 35-40 x 2-2 J//, 5-7-septate, hyaline, united 

 at base so as to form a brush-like tuft 15-20// thick. The tufts 

 arise directly from the cells of the i^roligerous layer, without any 

 distinct basidia. The habit is the same as that of C. beanmontii B. 

 & C. as distributed in N. A. F., 762, and like that species and C. 

 tmctus Pk., differs considerably from the species figured by Berk, in 

 Int. Crypt. Bot. in the absence of any pulvinate stromatic base. 

 Volutella bartlioloinsei E. & E. 



On leaves of Sporobolus asper, Rockport, Kansas. Sept., 1892. 

 (E. Bartholomew.) 



Sporodochia evenly scattered, hemispherical or oblong-hemispher- 

 ical, olive-black, i-i mm. diam., made up of closely packed, oblong- 

 cylindrical, olivaceous, 2-nucleate, 9-11 x 22// conidia arising directly 

 from the proligerous layer, without any visible sporophores, the 

 whole surrounded by an imperfectly developed, membranaceous ring 

 or border subtended by a few (3-6) erect-spreading olivaceous, con- 

 tinuous bristles 4-5// thick at base and tapering to the obtuse, sub- 

 hyaline apex. 

 Stigmina liriodendri E. & E. 



On fading leaves of Lirlodendron tulipifera, Saltillo, Mississippi. 

 Oct., 1892. (Tracy, No. 1,829.) 




172 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Spots amphigenous, subindefinite, dark brown, with a yellow- 

 shaded border, 3-5 mm. diam. Aeervuli numerous, hypophyllous, 

 standing circumferentially on the spots so as to leave the center 

 bare. Conidia oblong-cylindrical, brown, 1-3 (mostly 3-) septate, 

 10-15 X 35-4/^., not constricted at the septa, 3-4-or more-catenulate, 

 catenulse sometimes branching above. 




1893.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 173 



March 7. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 

 Fifty-four persons present. 



March 14. 

 Geo. H. Horn, M. D., in the chair. 

 Thirty-five persons present. 



The deaths of Mrs. Louisa J. Roberts and Geo. De B. Keim, 

 members, were announced. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 



" The Glandular Hairs of Brasenia peltata Pursh," by Ida A 

 Keller. 



"Notes on Choeropsis liberiensis Morton," by Henry C. 

 Chapman, D. D. 



March 21. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 

 Fifty-one persons present. 

 The death of Wra. B. Rogers, a member, was announced. 



March 28. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 



Forty-six persons present. 



The following were elected members : 



Samuel R. Shipley, Henry Winsor, Thomas H. Dougherty, 

 Edgar W. Earle, Henry Hazlehurst, John A. Brown, Jr., Frank 

 Thomson, George B. Roberts, Enoch Lewis, Francis B. Reeves, 

 Thomas McKean, Edw. H. Coates, Sutherland M. Prevost, 

 Hampton L. Carson, Crawford Arnold, Sydney F. Tyler, Richard 

 M. Cadwalader, Robert Wain Ryers, Joshua L. Baily, J. Bayard 

 Henry and Charles Chauncey. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




174 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



NOTES ON SOME MINERALS AND ROCKS. 

 BY E. GOLDSMITH. 



PiMELiTE. The material was found by Mr. Theo. D. Raud on bis 

 property at Radnor, Delaware Co., Penna., at a moderate depth. It 

 is soft and very finely micaceous, having an apple green color and is 

 greasy to the feel. Specific gravity was found with the Tboulet 

 solution to be 2*596. 



Beneath the microscope it shows irregular outlines. Dichroism 

 none. Interference colors brilliant. A cleavage is noticed in a direc- 

 tion apparently at right angles to the plates which give an inclined 

 extinction on rotating the object. The mineral is therefore defined 

 as crystallized and may belong to the monoclinic system. 



It is not fusible. "With carbonate of soda on charcoal it aflfords a 

 black mass containing nickel. With the fluxes it shows silica, nickel 

 and iron. Hydrochloric acid decomposes it on boiling, leaving 

 some mixed sand ; after repeated boiling with the acid the insoluble 

 portion was found to be 3ri per cent, of the whole mass. 



The soluble part, which is supposed to be the pimelite, being so 

 intimately mixed with the insoluble impure sand, I analyzed 

 quantitatively with the following result : 



Silica 45-93 percent 0=24-49 



Magnesia 34-44 percent 0=:rl3-771 



Nickeloxid 7-69 per cent 0= 1-66 j- =25.81 



Water 11-68 percent 0=10-38 J 



Which gives the ratios of Si02 : RO : : 1 : 1-05. A unisilicate, 

 which may be represented in this form : (Mgx + Niy -|- HJ O- 

 SiO,. 



If ever the mineral pimelite is found and analyzed in a purer 

 state it may possibly have the above composition ; but the Radnor 

 mineral is a mixture. 



AsBEFERRiTE. This variety of amphibole occurs mixed Avith 

 cobalt and nickeliferous pyrites on calcite. It occurs abundantly as 

 a secondary product in the iron mine near the Falls of French Creek, 

 Chester Co., Penna. It is mostly on the calcite, but some of it has 

 crystallized within it, giving the calcite a greenish tint. The 

 asbeferrite, when dry, has a faint green color ; if wet, as it comes out 

 of the mine, it appears dark green. The best designation may be 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 175 



grayish-green. Apparently it is amorphous macroscopically, in 

 reality crystallized in fine fibres which lie in all directions as if 

 felted together. The crystals as seen under the microscope are 

 mostly very thin and appear colorless, but those which are thicker 

 show a green color and with one nicol prism ; when the object is 

 rotated, a second color, yellow, is observed. The thicker crystals 

 are therefore dichroic. These latter, when viewed parallel with the 

 orthodiagonal plane, show this dichroic property particularly, but it 

 is extinguished parallel to their longer axis, between the crossed 

 nicols. The extinction parallel to the clinodiagonal I determined 

 to be equal to — 28°. The color of interference of this latter plane 

 was a bright yellow, but parallel to the orthodiagonal it was blue. 

 These optical characters indicate that this variety of amphibole is 

 nionoclinic. 



The hardness is not determinable. Specific gi'avity=2'6. 



Heated in the oxidizing flame it assumes a rusty color, fusing with 

 difficulty to a black mass; in the reducing flame it becomes gray. 

 AVith the fluxes iron and silica are indicated. 



The analytical result was as follows : 



SiOj 48'45 per cent. 



Fe^Og 33-90 per cent. 



. CaO 11-80 per cent. 



MgO 6-23 per cent. 



A trace of manganese w^as observed but not determined quantita- 

 tively. 



The composition of byssolite of Saussure is nearly the above, but 

 this variety occurs as stiff", shining, bristle-like crystals, not felt-like 

 as is the case with the dull, soft material under discussion. At any 

 rate it is but a variety of amphibole and compares better with the 

 Scandinavian mineral asbeferrite. 



Cacoxenite. This species occurs on limonite at Beartown, Lan- 

 caster Co., Penna. The reddish-yellow radiating tufts are made up 

 of very fine, fragile crystals whose hardness cannot be determined. 

 It is entirely soluble in nitric acid, and the solution gives reactions 

 for phosphoric acid and iron. It also contains Avater. 



Beneath the microscope the orthorhombic forms are clearly 

 observable, as (110) (001). They are dichroic ; gray when parallel 

 with the lower nicol and yellow when at a right angle to it. Between 

 the crossed nicols superb interference colors of orange, yellow, blue 

 and violet appear. This seems singular because the crystals do not 




176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



show much difference in thickness. Extinction invariably parallel 

 to the longer axis. 



Sericite-schist, also called hydromica schist, has been observed 

 on several outcrops about one mile north of Berwyn, Pa. It is a 

 glistening soft schistose rock much interspersed with quartz. 

 Parallel to the layers it is smooth and fatty to the touch ; at right 

 angle to it, rather sharp and rough. It is so brittle that trans- 

 parent sections are difficult to make. 



With the microscope the section gave indications of the fragmental 

 nature of its constituents. These are the peculiar leaflets of sericite, 

 very irregular in outline and in distribution, and fragments of a feld- 

 spar, which is probably orthoclase, and quartz. As accessories I found 

 some chlorite having faint dichroic properties playing between 

 green and brown. A multitude of acicular crystals is strewn 

 through the mass which seem to be apatite. Phosphoric acid and 

 lime were found by chemical tests. 



Amphibolitk. This is a perfectly black rock found at Swarth- 

 more, Delaware Co., Penna. There are lines which indicate strati- 

 fication and it may be therefore of metamorphic origin. The 

 fracture is curved. The hand specimen is of an even, crystalline 

 structure throughout the mass, but the crystals are not lying all 

 in the same direction. It is very compact and sound without any 

 sign of weathering or decomposition. It is apparently nothing 

 but amphibole, so far as the ordinary vision goes. In thin section, 

 however, there are, beside the amphibole, small irregular shaped frag- 

 ments of feldspar, mica and quartz, and magnetite in fair quantity. 



Gabbro-Phonolite. Mr. Theo. D. Rand showed me in a not 

 very deep ravine near Radnor Station, Delaware Co., Penna., a rock 

 of very dark color, fine-grained and tough which had not been 

 determined. He is of the opinion that the rock is in its original 

 position, which may be correct, although I have not been able to 

 see the proofs of it. It seems to me to be an isolated boulder. 



If struck with the hammer it does not give a metallic sound, but 

 its mineralogical composition seems to indicate a phonolite. The 

 thin section magnified 100 diameters gave the following result: 

 Figure 1, sanidiae, plagioclastic feldspar, diallage and magnetite. 



Phonolite. About a mile east of French Creek Falls Station^ 

 Chester Co., Penna., occurs a dyke whose rock splits in slabs after 

 heating it and marking with the chisel and hammer the direction in 

 which the division shall take place. I have seen plates of t inch in 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 177 



thickness. When struck with a hammer it gives a clear metallic 

 sound ; even the knuckles or the finger nails produce an audible 

 ring. It is fine grained, compact, tough, rough to the touch and of 

 dark gray color ; not weathered. 



The thin section exhibits under ordinary light much colorless 

 material with some dark, irregularly outlined patches. Dichroism 

 hardly any. Between the crossed nicols the following minerals 

 became visible : Plagioclastic feldspar, sanidine, augite, diallage, 

 amphibole, ilmenite with borders of leucoxene. Glass was not 

 found. 



Similar thin slabs of the same material were found in two other 

 localities. The one near the dyke at Schwenksville near Perkiomen 

 Creek and the other on the dyke near Tylersport, Montgomery County, 

 Pa. Both slabs were about i inch thick and weathered. The mere 

 touch with the fingers emitted a sound. The mineral composition in 

 general is the same as the rock from Little French Creek Falls. 



An Altered Phonolite. A flat slab, of about a 1 inch in 

 thickness, having the appearance of micaceous gneiss and a decided 

 metallic sound when touched or struck was found not far from the 

 dyke at West Conshohocken, Montgomery County, Pa. A thin 

 section observed under the microscope indicated a glassy feldspar 

 having the characters of sanidine. This latter species was compared 

 with the sanidine bearing trachyte from Sicily and Vesuvius and 

 seems to be identical therewith. Besides this glassy orthoclastic 

 feldspar a mica and quartz are present. There are also some very 

 thin fibrous microlites, which are probably a silicate, and ferric oxid. 

 In the whole the mixture of minerals present in this peculiar slab is 

 fine grained and very brittle. If the glassy feldspar should prove 

 to be true sanidine, the rock would be a new variety of gneiss, and, 

 since sanidine occurs only in eruptive rocks a somewhat singular 

 derivation would be indicated. It is evident that the glassy feld- 

 spar resists the action of metamorphic influences longer than the 

 plagioclastic feldspars ; the latter having entirely disappeared in this 

 altered phonolite, being, as it seems,changed into mica and quartz. 

 This is believed to be possible, since labradorite contains about 53 

 per cent, of silica, muscovite 46 per cent. The difference of the silica 

 would be liberated and, in the course of time crystallize into quartz. 



Gabbro-Phonolite. About ten miles east of Quakertown, 

 Bucks County, Pa., a conical hill rises, named by the people, Haycock 

 Mountain. On the slope, near the top of this hill, is an outcrop of 




178 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



igneous rock in the form of slabs and huge boulders. These were 

 generally called trap by our geological friends, but the people call 

 them ringing rocks ; or, what means the same, klinkstones. The 

 exposure is a large one, but, on inspection it was found that the trees 

 encroach upon it and have already conquered a considerable area of 

 the outcrop. They will probably in time cover the entire locality 

 which is called the Stony Garden by the people who go there on 

 picnics. 



The klinkstones, as they are called (or, more properly speaking 

 phonolites), produce a metallic sound when struck by a hammer, 

 and the sound differs with almost every block or slab. 



It is known that these rocks are basic in their chemical relations 

 and this fact was fully established by my having, after a careful 

 examination of some specimens, obtained 52'15% of silica (SiOj.) 



These phonolites, if not affected by atmospheric influence, are of 

 a dark color ; but they become ash-gray externally whenever exposed 

 to the air. They are tough and mostly fine-grained ; so much so 

 that, macroscopically, it is utterly impossible to determine their 

 mineralogical composition, although, with the aid of the pocket lens,^ 

 a few crystals may be seen. The thin section (fig. 2) had to be 

 magnified 100 diameters to make the components visible. It was 

 compared with standard rock slides: diallage, plagioclastic feldspar, 

 sanidine, amphibole and magnetite. 



Inasmuch as the composition embodied in these rocks constitutes 

 a gabbro, I have proposed the name gabbro-phonolite for this, the 

 first American i^honolite. 



Another dyke of phonolite, of essentially the same character and 

 of nearly the same composition, is exposed in Bucks County near 

 the Delaware River, opposite Holland Station, New Jersey. 



Three miles north of Pottstown, Montgomery County, Pa., is a fine 

 exposure of the same kind of phonolite as described above. The 

 people of the town call it the Ringing Hill. As it is easily reached 

 it is used as a pleasure grove. The encroaching trees will, in all 

 probability cover the entire outcrop, the greater part having already 

 been covered up. 



In PI. II, figure 3, I have tried to illustrate a thin section of 

 gabbro-phonolite collected from the dyke through which the North 

 Pennsylvania Railroad passes. The point is about two miles north 

 of Quakertown, Bucks County, Pa. A description may appear 

 superfluous because the composition is so nearly like the one from 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 179 



Haycock Mountain except that the sound emitted is not so highly 

 metallic as in the case of the latter. There are, however, twins of 

 diallage in the section which will easily be recognized by those inter- 

 ested in the subject. The sanidine is present in less quantity than 

 the plagioclastic feldspar which seems to be labradorite. Huge 

 blocks, rounded by weathering, occur in the neighboring fields in 

 great abundance. Specimens collected and studied in the same way, 

 gave the same general results, and have therefore not travelled any 

 great distance. 



Mr. Theo. D. Rand collected two specimens of rock which he sub- 

 mitted to me for determination. The one was found at Buck Run, 

 2 miles southwest of Mortonville, Chester County, Pa. ; and the other 

 from 2 miles south-southeast of Thorndale, Chester County, Pa. 

 Both specimens proved to be the same kind of gabbro-phonolite. 

 Slight differences are noticed in the Mortonville rock ; beside the 

 sanidine, plagioclastic feldspar, the diallage and augite, there is some 

 hematite beside the magnetite. 



The Thorndale rock is the same in composition except that 

 some chlorite was recognized in the mixture. 



Granulite. The specimen was collected in the quarry at Pigeon 

 Cove, Mass., by Mr. Theo. D. Rand who told me that the quarrymen 

 complained of the extreme hardness of the rock, which they could 

 not account for. I was requested to investigate it and to ascertain 

 what the cause of the extreme hardness might be. 



The hand specimen is a coarse grained, mostly light colored rock 

 intermixed irregularly with large black patches having a metallic 

 lustre. The rock contains no mica. 



The thin section (PI. II, fig. 4) as observed beneath the microscope 

 showed the constituent minerals to be orthoclastic feldspar, quartz 

 and magnetite. It is essentially the same rock which is so exten- 

 sively used in Philadelphia for Belgian block pavements. 



The feldspar and the quartz are interpenetrated and can be best 

 recognized by reflected light ; when so examined the quartz appears 

 dark and the feldspar light. With the aid of the polarized ray the 

 interference phenomena of the two mineral species are clearly shown ; 

 the reflected ray however, shows it to the best advantage especially 

 for the shading in the illustration. The contour was drawn with 

 the pen and the aid of a rectangular prism (Dr. Piffards) which 

 projects the picture of the slide upon the paper. Under these con- 

 ditions the contour can be drawn with accuracy and ease, provided 




180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



one has enough light. The section as drawn shows how intimately the 

 quartz and feldspar are mixed. The two species are so commingled 

 as to indicate that they must have crystallized simultaneously, the 

 greater hardness seeming to be due to a somewhat greater proportion 

 of quartz. 



Explanation of Plates I and II. 



Figure 1. Gabbro Phonolite, Kadnor. Magnified 100 diameters 

 shows, (1) Sanidine, (2) Plagioclastic Feldspar, (3) Diallage, (4) 

 Magnetite. 



Figure 2. Gabbro Phonolite, 10 miles east of Quakertown. 

 X 100 ; (1) Diallage, (2) Plagioclastic Feldspar, (3) Sanidine, (4) 

 Amphibole, (5) Magnetite. 



Figure 3. Gabbro Phonolite, north of Quakertown, X 15 ; (1) 

 Diallage, (2) Plagioclastic Feldspar, (3) Magnetite, (4) Amphibole, 

 (5) Sanidine. 



Figure 4. Gran u lite, Pigeon Cove, Mass. Xl5; (1) Orthoclas- 

 tic Feldspar, the dark portion quartz, (3) Magnetite. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



A CONTRIBUTION TO THE HERPETOLOGY OF BRITISH COLUMBIA. 

 BY E. D. COPE. 



The present paper records the species contained in two collections 

 made in British Columbia. The first and less extensive was made by 

 Dr. and Mrs. G. F. Bodington, at Hatzic in the Matsqui Country, on 

 the Frazer River, near to the Uniited States line. The fauna is that 

 of the Pacific Coast. The other and more considerable collection 

 was made by Samuel N. Rhoads, of Philadelphia, during an exten- 

 sive exploration of the country, made in the interest of zoological 

 science. His route extended from Tacoma (Washington) to Vic- 

 toria on Vancouver Island, and thence to Ashcroft in the arid 

 region east of the Cascade Mountains. Then it led one hundred 

 and fifty miles north to Lake La Hache about lat. 52° ; and then 

 returning to Ashcroft it extended eastward to the western base of 

 the Selkirk Range at Sicamoos, and to Vernon a little further 

 south. Mr. Rhoads returned to Revelstoke on the Columbia River, 

 and descended that stream about two hundred miles to Nelson, on 

 Kootenay Lake. Thence he went east to Field, near the summit of 

 the Rocky Mountains. The species collected represent a great 

 variety of climate and altitude. Thus species from Tacoma and 

 Victoria represent the humid coast fauna, and those from Ashcroft 

 eastward, belong to an arid and elevated country. No species were 

 found as far north as Lake La Hache. The species from the Rocky 

 Mountains represent a more elevated and less arid condition than 

 those prevailing at Ashcroft. 



BATRACHIA. 



Amblystoma macrodactylum Baird. 



Large specimens from Hatzic. 

 Diemyctylus torosus Eseh. 



Specimens from Tacoma, Hatzic, and Victoria, B. C. 

 Bufo columbiensis B. & G. 



Hatzic and Field, B. C, in the Rocky Mountains. 

 Hyla regilla B. & G. 



Numerous specimens from Tacoma and from Hatzic. 

 Rana agilis aurora B. & G. 



Abundant at Tacoma and Hatzic. 




182 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Rana temporaria pretiosa B. & G. 



Sicamoos, B. C, and Field, B. C, in the Rocky Mountains — 

 numerous specimens. 



Rana virescens Kahn. 



A small specimen, having the general appearance of the sub- 

 species brachycephala Cope, but with the length of the head entering 

 the total less than three times. From the plains east of the Rocky- 

 Mountains. 



Spea hammondii iutermoutana Cope. 



A single specimen from Vernon, B. C. The frontoparietal 

 fontanelle is closed, and the supraorbital borders are thickened, 

 so as to give the profile a distinct convexity. The discovery of 

 this species, so far north, greatly extends its range. 



REPTILIA. 



Pityophis sayi bellona B. & G. 



Vernon. 

 Eutaenia leptocephala B. & G. 



An interesting series of eight specimens was obtained by Mr. 

 Rhoads, five from Tacoma and three from Victoria, B. C. He did 

 not obtain it from any locality east of the latter point. In my paper 

 on the Characters and Variations of the Snakes of North America,^ 

 p. 660, 1 state that of the specimens in the National Museum, rather 

 less than half have two preocular plates, and one half have seven- 

 teen and the other half nineteen rows of scales. Of the eight speci- 

 mens brought by Mr. Rhoads, six have two, and two have three 

 preoculars; one of the latter coming from Tacoma and one from 

 Victoria. Six have seventeen rows of scales, and two have nineteen, 

 both the latter from Tacoma. The distinctive characters of the 

 species are thus confirmed. The ground color in two of the Tacoma 

 specimens is black, and the others brown. All of the Victoria 

 specimens are brown, and two of them have a red dorsal stripe. 

 Eutaenia sirtalis trilineata Cope, 1. sup. cit. 662-6. 



Four specimens, two from Tacoma, and one each from Hatzic 

 and Sicamoos, B. C. The last two specimens are typical E. s. 

 trilineata, but in the two from Tacoma the dorsal stripe marks only 

 a single row of scales, and the lateral is principally on one row, 

 and partly on another. It is not unlikely that the two subspecies 



1 Proceeds. U. S. Natl. Museum, 1892, p. 589 (pub. Sept. 1, 1892). 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



— E. s. pickeringii and E. s. irilineata — may have to be united. 

 In my key of subspecies of E. sirtalis, the E. s. picker iyjgiiy^as -placed 

 inadvertently in section III, while it should have been placed in 

 section IV. 



Eutaenia sirtalis parietalis Say. 



Three from Hatzic, two from Sicamoos, B. C, and one from 

 Nelson and Vernon, B. C, respectively. Constant to its characters 

 in the interior, but the three specimens from Hatzic show an approach 

 to the trilineata form. This is produced by a diminution in the size 

 of the red spots anteriorly, and their obliteration on the posterior 

 part of the body and on the tail. 

 Eutaenia elegans linealata Cope. 



Two from Tacoma, and one from Sicamoos, B. C. 

 Eutaenia elegans vagrans B. & G. 



Three from Nelson, B. C. 

 Crotalus confluentus lucifer B. & G. 



Vernon. 



Total number of species obtained, thirteen, of which eight are 

 batrachiaus and five snakes, two of the latter rej^resented by two 

 subspecies each. 



An interesting feature in this collection is the remarkable exten- 

 sion of the northern range of the Sjjea liammoncUiintermontana,&Xid 

 the Pltyophis sayi hellona. The former had not been known pre- 

 viously north of Pyramid Lake, Nevada, and the latter, north of 

 the Humboldt River in the same State. 



Both are restricted to the Great Basin, and their northern range 

 indicates the extension of the fauna to a higher latitude than has 

 been hitherto known. This is consistent with the physical charac- 

 ters of the count'^y, and with the indications furnished by the bird- 

 life, as I am informed by Mr. Rhoads. A.nother peculiarity is the 

 occurrence of Crotalus conjiuentus lucifer in the same region, instead 

 of the Great Basin form C. c. lecontei. The former is the coast 

 species, and has never been detected in the Great Basin. 



The species are distributed according to districts, as follows : 



PACIFIC COAST. 



Diemyctylus torosus. 

 Hyla r eg ilia. 

 Rana agilis aurora. 




184 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Eutaenia leptoeephala. 

 Eutaenia sirtalis pickeringii. 

 Eutaenia elegans lineolata. 



ARID REGION. 



Spea hammondii interviontana. 

 Pityophis sayi hellona. 

 Eutaenia sirtalis parietalis. 

 Crotalus confluentus lucifer. 



ROCKY MOUNTAINS. 



Rana temporaria pretiosa. 

 Eutaenia sirtalis parietalis. 

 Eutaenia sirtalis trilineata. 

 Eutaenia elegans lineolata. 

 Eutaenia elegans vagrans. 



THE PLAINS. 



Rana virescens. 



Bufo columbiensis was sent from tlie coast and from the Rocky 

 Mountain region. It occurs also in the arid region in Oregon. 

 Eutaenia sirtalis parietalis has the same distribution. 



Amhlystoma maerodadylum has not been previously recorded from 

 British Columbia, although its occurrence at Puget Sound would 

 lead us to expect it. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 185 



NOTES ON CHOEROPSIS LIBERIENSIS (Morton). 

 BY HENRY C. CHAPMAN, M. D. 



It is well-known that the late Dr. Samuel G. Morton, regarding cer- 

 tain peculiarities presented by the skull of the hippopotamus inhab- 

 iting the west coast of Africa as specific in character, proposed in 

 communications made to the Academy' that the latter should be 

 distinguished from that of the east coast as Hippopotamus minor, 

 afterward liberiensis, the former retaining the name of Hippopot- 

 amus amphihius given to it by Linnaeus." The Academy having 

 afterward acquired an entire skeleton of theLiberian hippopotamus, 

 the late Dr. Leidy took up anew the study of its osteology 

 and more especially of the skull. After a most cai'eful com- 

 parison of the skulls of the two species, Dr. Leidy came to the 

 conclusion that the hippopotamus of Liberia differed so much 

 from that inhabiting the Nile, the Cape of Good Hope, etc., that the 

 Liberian animal should be considered as constituting, not only a dis- 

 tinct species, but a distinct genus, and proposed^ that the new 

 genus should be named Chaerodes. Learning, however, that this 

 name had already been appropriated, having been previously given 

 to an insect. Dr. Leidy suggested that the name Chaerodes should 

 be changed to Choeropsis.* While Dr. Leidy's views as to the 

 generic distinction between Hippopotamus and C/ioero;;siS have been 

 accepted by such high authorities as Gratiolet,^ Milne Edwards* and 

 Huxley', by many zoologists Choeropsis is regarded as a species of 

 Hippopotamus, and by some only as a variety of Hippopotamus 



1 Proc. Acad. N. S.. 1844, Vol. 2, p. 14 ; Journal A. N. S., Vol. 1, 1849, p. 231. 



^Syst. Nat. 12 ed., Vol. 1, p. 10, 1766. 



3 Proc. A. N. S., 1852, Vol. 6, p. 52. 



* Journal A. N. S.. 2 Ser., Vol. 2, 1853, p. 213. 



^Recherches sur I'anatomie de I'Hippopotanie, Paris, 1867, p. 202. Gratiolet 

 apparently ignorant of Leidy's description, named the Liberian hippopotamus 

 Ditomeodori. 



^ Recherches sur les Mammiferes, Paris, 1868-1874, p. 43. 



' Huxley, Anatomy of Vertebrated Animals, 1872, p. 319. At least, Huxley 

 says, " The Hippopotamidae are represented at present only by the genera Hippo- 

 potamus and Ckaeropus.'" " Chaeroptis has only two incisors in the lower jaw " 

 — by Chaeroptis is, presumably, meant Choeropsis. 



13 




186 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



amphibius.^ Thus, for example, Flower," a very high autkority, 

 does not consider the difference in the shape of the cranium and in 

 the number of the incisor teeth in the lower jaw as warranting the 

 establishment of the genus Cfioeropsis. The difference presented by 

 the crania in the two kinds of hippopotamus, Flower regards as 

 similar to those " between the Tiger and the smaller species of 

 Felis, the Gorilla and Baboons and the siualler allied apes." In 

 the judgment of the author, however, it may be at least questioned 

 whether the differences existing between the smaller species of Felis 

 do not justify separating them into distinct genera. On the 

 other hand, although the Gorilla has descended in all probability 

 from some Baboon-like form, zoologists do not as yet recognize these 

 two apes as species of the same genus. The fact that Hippopotamus 

 amphibms syn. Tetraprotodou has, according to Gaudry,^" exhibited 

 in one instance unilateral hexaprotodontism and Choeropsis, accord- 

 ing to Flower," in one instance unilateral tetraprotodontism would 

 influence but few palaeontologists in regarding, like Lydekker,^^ 

 Hexaprotodon, Tetrajyrotodon and Choeropsis as merely species of 

 one genus Hippopotamus. Hexaprotodon and Tetraprotodon, with 

 the incisor formula l-f and |-| respectively, are still consid- 

 ered either as sub-genera, as they were originally by Falconer and 

 Cautley," or as genera, as by the greatest of British palaeontologists, 

 the late Sir Richard Owen." The latter view being accepted by 

 the author, Choeropsis, with the incisor formula f-f, and differing 

 in other respects far more from the living hippopotamus (^Tetrapro- 

 todoii) than the latter does from the extinct one (Hexaj^rotodon), 

 should certainly be regarded as a genus distinct from Hippopotamus. 

 It appears to us that too much importance has been attached by 

 Lydekker and Flower to the presence of an extra incisor tooth in 

 the lower jaw of Hippopotamus amphibius and Choeropsis respect- 

 ively, especially as it has only been noticed once in either case. We 

 would rather regard the presence of such an incisior tooth as an 

 individual peculiarity and as an instance of redundancy than of 

 reversion. In view of what has already been urged by Leidy, 



sCarus, Zoologie, 1868, p. 145. 

 9 Pro. Zool. Soc. London, 1887, p. 612. 

 "Bull. Soc. Geologique, Ser. 3, Vol. 4, p. 504. 

 " Op. cit. 



12 Memoirs of the Geological Survey of India, 1884-1886, Vol. 3, p. 47. 



13 Falconer, Palseontological Memoirs, Vol. 1, 1868, p. 140. 

 " Odontography, 1840, p. 566. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 187 



Gratiolet, Milne-Edwards in favor of distinguishing Chueropsis as a 

 genus distinct from Hippopotamus, there is but little further to be 

 added. It may be mentioned, however, in this connection, that the 

 brain of Choeropm as described by Macalister'^ differs very con- 

 siderably from that of the adult hippopotamus dissected by Garrod^® 

 and of the young animal dissected by the author,^^ the differences 

 between the two brains being essentially the same as those presented 

 by the casts of the cranial cavities described and figured by 

 Milne-Edwards. The above remarks are made on the occasion 

 of the presentation to the Academy by Mr. W. E. Rothery, Consul 

 of the Liberian Government, through Mr. Arthur E. Brown, of 

 a fine skin and skeleton of the Choeropsis Uberiensis. The value 

 of this generous gift will be better appreciated when it is known 

 that the only specimen of Choerop)sis liberiensis ever exhibited 

 abroad was the one that lived only five minutes after its arrival 

 at the Zoological Garden of Dublin, and which constituted the 

 subject of the dissection made of that animal by Macalister. So 

 far as known to the author, with the exception of the skin presented 

 to the Academy this evening, there are but two others in col- 

 lections — those referred to by Milue-Edwards and Flower. Our 

 Choeropsis, of which we give an illustration taken from a photo- 

 graph, (Plate. IV) is 5 feet 3 inches in length, and 2 feet 5 inches in 

 height, the latter measurement being taken from the shoulder. 

 The color of the skin appears to have been originally of a bluish 

 black, fainter in some parts than others, and presenting, therefore, a 

 somewhat mottled appearance. The difference in color from that of 

 the Choeropsis described by Milne-Edwards, which is represented 

 as of a reddish hue, may possibly have been due to the liquor in 

 which the skin was preserved. It is more probable, however, that 

 Choeropsis varies in color. In other respects, our specimen resembles 

 that described and illustrated by Milne-Edwards. 



'» Proc. Royal Irish Acad., 2d Ser, Vol. 1, 1873, p. 494. 

 i« Trans, of Z. S. London, 1880. 

 "P.A.N. S., 1881, p. 126. 




188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



THE GLANDULAR HAIKS OF BEASENIA PELTATA PURSH. 

 BY IDA A. KELLER. 



The thick coating of jelly with which certain parts of J??'asenta 

 peltata are covered can not have escaped the attention of any one 

 who is familiar with that member of the family of Nymphseacese. 

 In my search for descriptions of the method of formation of this 

 secretion, for such we must term the jelly-like mass, I have found 

 but one brief statement in explanation of the development of it. 

 This is by Asa Gray, who says " The jelly by which the stalks, etc., 

 are thickly coated, I find to arise from the rapid formation and 

 rupturing of successive epithelial cells, in the same way that muci- 

 lage is formed on the surface of animal mucous membranes."^ This 

 explanation is wholly inadequate, and I might also say entirely 

 incorrect, as will become apparent further on. 



Turning our attention first of all to the distribution of the jelly, 

 it may be noticed in the plant represented on Plate III, fig. 1, that 

 there is none of this coating substance to be found on the older parts 

 of the creeping rhizome, and particularly not at such portions which 

 were not of this year's growth, nor is any of the secretion observ- 

 able on the petioles and blades of the older leaves still alive and 

 vegetating. Three such leaves are represented by B, C, & A, in 

 fig. I. On these, none of the jelly except perhaps slight traces of 

 it, was perceptible to the touch. The next two leaves, D, & E, in 

 fig. I, evidently younger and less well developed, show a thick film 

 of jelly-like substance on the petioles, and this film extended also 

 over the under surface of the leaf blades. The leaves of Brasenia 

 peltata are alternate and elliptical in shape, and centrally peltate. 

 The long diameter of each of the three older leaves above referred 

 to as destitute of the coating of jelly was about 8 cm. The long 

 diameter of each of the two leaves with the jelly-like coating on the 

 petioles and under leaf-surfaces was 7 cm. and 62 cm. respectively. 



The leaves are involute in vernation, and the next younger leaf 

 having not yet expanded, fig. I F shows the sides rolled inward, 

 parallel to the longest diameter. This latter measured 5 cm. The 

 entire leaf in this case seemed to be enveloped in a gelatinous sheath. 

 On unrolling the sides I found, however, that the secretion originated 



^ A. Gray, Genera Florae Americas Boreali-Orientalis, Vol. I, p. 96, Note. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 189 



from the under leaf surface only. The upper leaf surface was 

 almost completely hidden from view and consequently protected by 

 means of the peculiar infolding of the leaf in the early stages of its 

 development. The long diameter of the next younger leaf, with its 

 sides similarly rolled in as in the case of the preceding one, meas- 

 ured 1 cm., fig. 1, G, and the thick gelatinous mass which coated 

 it, extended also over the adjoining petioles and the punctum vege- 

 tationis. To the naked eye, this secretion appears as a transparent 

 colorless jelly. Held up to the light it can be observed that numer- 

 ous very fine hair-like processes extend into it from the plant. On 

 magnification, these processes appear as represented in fig. II, A, 

 B, C, D. It becomes at once appai*ent that these processes belong 

 to the category of trichomes being outgrowths from the epidermis. 

 In spite of the variety of form as represented in fig. II, these 

 trichomes show a certain uniformity of structure. They consist in 

 the main of one large cell, fig. II, X, and of a group of smaller 

 cells uniting the large terminal cell with the epidermis below. Only 

 two of this group of cells are shown in fig. II, A, Y. The trichomes 

 are either unbranched, fig. II, A & B, or else they are branched 

 or rather forked, fig. II, C & D. There cannot be the slightest 

 doubt that these trichomes are the organs which are active in the 

 secretion of the jelly, and they may therefore be termed glandular 

 hairs. Since, at the time of collecting, it has been impossible for me to 

 examine carefully the structure of these glandular hairs, the mater- 

 ial was placed in 50 per cent, alcohol, and the observations which I 

 here record were made entirely on alcohol material. The gelatin- 

 ous coating suffered no perceptible change through this new medium. 

 From a leaf 1 cm. long, a portion of the epidermis of the under 

 leaf surface was removed and examined. The glands were closely 

 crowded, leaving no spaces between them. What I shall call the 

 gland proper is represented in fig. II, A X, plus the group of 

 smaller cells at the base already referred to, and two of which are 

 represented by Y of fig. II, A. The gland of fig. II, A was of 

 about the average size, and measured .205 mm. in height and .0369 

 mm. in width. Surrounding the gland proper will be noticed what 

 I shall in distinction from this and for convenience merely term 

 sheath, fig. II, A. S., which measured, in this particular case .2337 mm. 

 X .0943 mm. The size of the sheaths varies considerably, and the 

 explanation of this variation of size is found in the peculiar signifi- 

 cance of these structures which will be dwelt upon immediately. 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



At the apex of the gland proper, a cap is noticeable, fig. II, A, Zr 

 which was more highly refractive than the remainder of the cell wall. 

 Directly below it the protoplasm seemed more dense, the proto- 

 plasm itself was yellow or brownish, granular and in part showed 

 reticulations. Since I did not examine fresh material, I cannot, at 

 present, say how far the protoplasm had been affected or altered 

 in appearance by the alcohol. 



The outer envelope or portion which I have for want of a better 

 term called " sheath," is delicately walled, sometimes closed at the 

 top, fig. II, A, and sometimes open, fig. II, B, C, D. The wall 

 is transparent — almost colorless. This sheath, in all probability, 

 represents the " epithelial cells " of Gray, but instead of being epi- 

 thelial cells rapidly formed and ruptured, the observation of the 

 method of development of these sheaths indicates a totally different 

 explanation regarding their true nature. The method of secretion 

 witnessed in glandular hairs is generally as follows : " The secre- 

 tion regularly occurs first at the apex and spreads from there, lifting 

 off the thin cuticle in shape of a bladder whose contents are then 

 filled with the secretion."^ Regarding fig. VI, where a sheath is 

 just beginning to be formed, S", and where another has already 

 attained a considerable size, S', there can be little doubt of the 

 fact that the method of secretion in case of the glandular hairs of 

 Brasenia peltata is entirely in accordance with that observed in 

 glandular hairs generally. The sheath then is nothing more nor 

 less than the cuticle lifted off by the secretion. The cuticle, as will 

 be seen on comparison of the figures, is capable of growing or 

 becoming stretched to a remarkable extent; this may be especially 

 well seen in fig. VI and fig. VIII, both glands being taken from 

 near the vegetative point where secretion seemed most active. The 

 cuticle finally becomes broken, indistinct, and eventually seems to 

 dissolve, as indicated in fig. II, C & D. A peculiar rupture of the 

 cuticle witnessed in a few cases is shown in Fig. II, B. This was 

 perhaps caused by some external agency, since, usually, the sheath 

 seems to become indistinct rather gradually instead of a portion 

 breaking off with a smooth edge. 



According to Hanstein, the cuticle of glandular hairs in case of 

 unopened leaf-buds after rupture is often regenerated, and the form- 

 ation of new secretion begins.^ This process is particularly evident 



•Julius Sachs, Vorlesungen iiber Pflanzen Physiologic, Leipzig, 1887, p. 195. 

 ^ DeBary, Vergleichende Anatomic, Leipzig, 1877, p. 104. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 191 



in case of the glandular hairs of Brrisenia peltata, especially so in 

 hairs from near the vegetative point. On these successive sheaths 

 may be frequently seen, as in fig. VI, S' & S", the next one appear- 

 ing before the preceding one is dissolved. Fig. VII represents the 

 apices of three such sheaths, the innermost always being the one last 

 formed. 



In accordance also with observations on similar organs of other 

 plants, the secretion and secreting organs are most thick on the 

 youngest and most tender parts as already described and represented 

 in fig. I. The activity of the hairs evidently decreases from the 

 punctum vegetationis backward, and ceases entirely on the older 

 fully-developed parts. The hairs, although they cannot dry up in 

 the manner usually to be observed on land plants, seem to die oflT 

 and finally disappear, as indicated in fig, IV, a cross section of an 

 older portion of the rhizome which no longer possessed any or, 

 perhaps, slight traces of the gelatinous coating. Fig. V represents 

 a surface view of the epidermis taken from about the same point 

 as the cross section represented in fig. IV. In fig. V the places 

 where the glandular hairs had once been active, are represented by 

 H. 



Fig. Ill, on the other hand, shows the great quantity of glands 

 which beset a petiole which is thickly coated with jelly, and the 

 more closely the vegetative point is approached, the more closely 

 the glands are packed together, in fact, as has been stated before, at 

 the points of greatest activity they are crowded to such an extent as 

 to leave no spaces between them. 



The glandular hairs of Brasenia peltata are then, as plant hairs 

 are very apt to be, transitor}"^ organs, disappearing in the course of 

 the development of the part which produces them. In function 

 they are no doubt comparable to the " Colleters " of Hanstein.^ 

 This name Hanstein applies to the more massive trichomes which 

 are found on the epidermis of leaves while still in the bud, and 

 secreting during that stage different substances, such as gum or gum 

 and resin, and by this means causing the parts to adhere to each 

 other and protecting them from unfavorable external agencies. This 

 active secretion must have been noticed by every one who has ever 

 observed the opening of the buds of the horse-chestnut, poplar, etc. 

 It may also be seen in the case of Salvia, Polygonum, Helianthiis 

 and other herbaceous plants. 



^ DeBary, Vergleichende Anatomic, Leipzig, 1877, p. 104. 




192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



It is interesting to find in Braseniapeltata, a member of the water- 

 lily family and living therefore as an aquatic under entirely 

 different conditions, similar means of protection for the younger 

 parts as observed in the case of the terrestrial plants just referred to. 



Although the chemical composition of the substances secreted by 

 means of the " Colleters " varies considerably in different land plants, 

 Hanstein applies the name " Blastocolla " indiscriminately to the 

 product. There is no reason why this name should not also apply 

 to the gelatinous coating found on the younger organs of Brasenia 

 peltata. It may be expected that a plant surrounded by air 

 requires totally different means of protection from one whose sur- 

 rounding medium is water, and it may be taken for granted that 

 the gelatinous coating of Brasenia peltata is one peculiarly adapted 

 to the conditions in which that plant lives. At present, it is impos- 

 sible for me to state the chemical composition of this substance. 

 The only point which I can state with certainty is that the princi- 

 pal constituent of the secretion is water, which fact indicates that 

 the secretion is one of those plant products Avhich are capable of 

 imbibing great quantities of water. It must be remembered that in 

 water plants the principal water-conducting tissue, thexylem of the 

 fibro-vascular bundles, is usually reduced to a more or less extent. 

 In case of Brasenia peltata, I notice that this reduction is carried to 

 an extreme degree, the xylem being entirely obliterated in the leaf 

 petioles. There is, therefore, in this plant, no tissue particularly 

 adapted to the rapid transportation of great quantities of water. The 

 question naturally arises, how, under the circumstances here prevail- 

 ing, in a plant entirely surrounded by water, containing within no 

 xylem or water-conducting tissue, par excellence, is this imbibition 

 process accomplished ? The determination of this matter is, as I 

 believe, of considerable importance, and requires a most critical 

 observation. Two methods naturally suggest themselves : the secre- 

 tion may draw the water from within, the water would then have to 

 be taken in at other points of the surface of the different parts of 

 the plant, and transferred from there to the glandular hairs ; or the 

 secretion may draw the water, or a part of it, directly from the out- 

 side. This latter, under the circumstances, seems to me the most 

 probable explanation of the phenomena here witnessed. The ques- 

 tion must, however, for the present, remain an open one. So far as 

 I know, the imbibition of water from the outside by means of gland- 

 ular hairs, has nowhere, as yet, been observed. Should the method 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 193 



of secretion here suggested as probable for the glandular hairs of 

 Braseyiia peltata in truth prevail, I believe that this plant would 

 prove most valuable in adding to our knowledge of the processes of 

 secretion as observed in the vegetable kingdom. 




194 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



NOTES ON THE OCCURRENCE OF QUARTZ AND OTHER MINERALS IN 



THE CHEMUNG MEASURES. NEAR THE LINE OF LYCOMING 



AND TIOGA COUNTIES. PENNSYLVANIA. 



BY ABRAHAM MEYER. 



Ascending the " Roaring branch " of Lycoming Creek, the upper 

 Catskill measures may be seen. After passing two or three thou- 

 sand feet of red and gray rocks we reach the upper measures of the 

 Chemung Vlllf and Vllle. Below, these dip from 10° to 80° 

 beyond which they are nearly horizontal. 



In these horizontal strata which rise to heights of from one hundred 

 to three hundred feet above the stream, may be seen peculiar undula- 

 tions or rolls, some being slight short curves, others semi-circular^ 

 while some form an entire circle with the layers concentric. These 

 are most apparent near the base of No. Vllle, in shales and fossili- 

 ferous limestone and iron ore. The rolls differ from the rock, which 

 surrounds them, though the latter follows to a certain extent the 

 convexity of the rolls. 



Xear one of these rolls a drift was made in search of ore. On 

 the east side appeared a seemingly vertical wall of dark metamor- 

 phosed fossiliferous rock of considerable hardness, containing much 

 carbonaceous material and iron pyrites, with cavities holding 

 drusy quartz, calcite, chalcopyrite, etc. On the west side was a soft 

 (pyrophyllite) slate, with calcite and quartz crystals near the line of 

 contact. 



In the four or five feet between these was a heterogeneous mixture 

 of hard and soft rocks of varying character, from a soft bluish clay 

 to a very compact quartz resembling novaculite, a breccia together 

 with geodes containing quartz crystals, calcite in the form of dog- 

 tooth spar, pearl spar, chalcocite, chalcopyrite, galena and blende 

 with possibly siderite, fluorite and millerite. 



The quartz crystals are generally attached to the rock in the 

 usual manner ; some, however, are loose and nearly perfect, often 

 smoky and usually containing remarkable inclusions both solid and 

 liquid. There is much carbonaceous material, quite loose and soil- 

 ing anything with which it comes in contact. The shale impreg- 

 nated with this is sometimes metamorphosed into an excessively 

 hard material approaching carbonado in its character. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 195 



This material was penetrated lor between 40 and 50 feet when 

 the body of the roll was met, dipping about 15°. Here, at the 

 bottom of the drift, on the east side, was a Avhite granular quartz 

 with intermingled quartz crystals some of them rolled. In three 

 feet this increased from a half inch to three inches in thickness 

 accompanied by a harsh silicious carbonaceous I'ock containing 

 pyrites and chalcopyrite and some steel gray crystals not determined. 

 This seemed to continue, but water coming in, the exploration was 

 abandoned. The quartz crystals exhibited show among other things 

 as follows : 



1. A transparent, doubly terminated smoky crystal with a fluid 

 inclusion and also small pearly crystals ; also a rectangular and a 

 hexagonal prism beside moss-like aggregates. Near the apex of the 

 pyramidal termination there is a pearly crystal in form resembling 

 a twin of selenite. 



In another position, the same crystal shows a vast number of 

 inclusions, some mere points, others fine lines, circles and rosettes, 

 colorless, yellow, orange and black, A group of twelve quartz 

 crystals associated with chalcopyrite and perhaps ilmenite. These 

 under the microscope show octahedral crystals included, with fluid 

 and bubble-containing cavities. 



2. Crystals, colorless and transparent, also smoky and some 

 opaque, containing inclusions in fine lines and other figures. These 

 were obtained in a loose blue clay, arising from the decomposition 

 of the soft blue shales of the Chemung formation, and also from a 

 cylindrical chimney, six inches in diameter and two feet long which 

 was found near the top of the drift. The crystals were loose, in a 

 mass of decomposed ferruginous calcite and clay. 



3. Similar crystals in ferruginous calcite, found between con- 

 glomerate and dolomitic spar in the roll. 



4. A white and grayish-white laminated or tabular quartz in quite 

 thin plates, the surface studded Avith minute quartz crystals with 

 occasional larger transparent or milky crystals. 



The slates accompanying these gave evidence by slickensided 

 surfaces of movement under pressure. 



5. Quartz crystals upon crystallized calcite and dolomite ; the 

 surfaces coated with minute crystals. 



6. These occurred with the tabular quartz described above and 

 are in nodular masses of metamorphosed slate and shale. Some 

 crystals are transparent, others dark smoky to black. Some of the 




196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1893. 



black crystals are much harder than common quartz, and have 

 centers of prismatic colors, which by reflected light assume an 

 aster iated form. 



7. Associated also with the tabular quartz is a browmish-red 

 ferruginous quartz one piece of which showed crystals of intense 

 black color, except two zones at the base, which showed prismatic 

 colors, and under the microscope the asterism. The point of this 

 crystal was extremely hard. 



8. On a line with the rolls, but 125 feet above them topographic- 

 ally, was ferruginous calcite and massive quartz with rough quartz 

 crystals, the surfaces pitted and filled with clay. The massive 

 quartz breaks very readily into angular fragments, the surfaces 

 coated with dendrites. Some of the crystals are coated with druses 

 of black color and metallic lustre, some crystalline, some quite rough. 

 Under the microscope some of these show crystalline forms of light 

 straw color resembling millerite. 



My theory of the formation of these rolls is that a subterranean 

 force acting over an oval area ten or twelve miles by four culmin- 

 ated in making them; the zone of most active force being about 

 two and a half miles in diameter. That steam and water carrying 

 carbon, lime, iron, etc., penetrated the crevices, formed and deposited 

 the minerals and crystals; unfortunately for mining interests this 

 action was scattered over a considerable extent of country whereas 

 had it been confined to a narrow vein, a valuable mine might have 

 been the result. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 197 



PYROPHYLLITE SLATES IN NORTHERN PENNSYLVANIA. 

 BY ABRAHAM MEYER. 



The following coramunication was read from Mr. Abraham Meyer 

 as part of the Proceedings of the Mineralogical and Geological 

 Section : 



The Pyrophyllite slates of Lycoming and Tioga Counties occur in 

 the Formation No. YIII, g. Chemung, and Formation No. IX 

 (Red), Catskill. 



The first exposure in the Chemung formation shows that these slates 

 are found where there has been an evident disturbance of the original 

 stratification with some infiltration of water, possibly steam, and the 

 measures at such points seem to have undergone a great change from 

 their usual conditions in having the coarser silica eliminated and the 

 softer homogeneous aluminous material with a small per cent, of very 

 finely divided silica remaining (generally) very evenly disseminated 

 throughout the mass. This class was found near the rolls in the 

 Chemung measures, Tioga County (where the quartzes, etc., referred 

 to were found) it occurred in layers from one-half inch to two inches 

 in thickness, and resembled the Vermont and Deep River, N. C, 

 pencil slates, but did not retain its homogeneous nature for any 

 distance. Upon the measures approaching the disturbance in the 

 horizontal strata near the rolls, it became permeated with silica, 

 which also formed cylindrical and ovoid masses of silicious matter, 

 so as to cause it to undergo a complete change, unfitting it for the 

 commercial purposes for which a perfectly homogeneous aluminous 

 shale would be desirable. 



The second exposure was observed in the middle member of 

 Formation No. IX, Red and Gray Catskill, in Cogan House and 

 Pine Townships, Lycoming County, and both under similar condi- 

 tions but in varying quantities. In Cogan House Township the slate 

 was observed under the concretionary ferruginous limestone (corn- 

 stone of Old Red Sandstone series), in company with black shaly cop- 

 per ore and a mass of light gray shales mixed with silicious and 

 granitoid paste, the gray shales being sprinkled with a thin film and 

 specks of green and blue carbonate of copper (no copper-ore of com- 

 mercial value being observed). These slates were from one-fourth 

 to one inch thick, and were slightly more silicious than those of the 

 first exposure found, the whole thickness of deposit not exceed- 




198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



ing six inches, except the soft sbaly measures occurring in Pine 

 Township, which were from fifteen to eighteen inches thick. The 

 measures, however, were very much crushed and broken up — no 

 regular layers, but accompanied with a light sprinkle of copper green. 

 This form of exposure was observed at three localities. 



The third exposure occurs near the mouth of Otter Run, Pine 

 Township, under a heavy mass of concretionary limestone, quite 

 thick (and was very similar to the Vermont and Deep River, X. C, 

 coarse pencil slates), but, being in the bed of the stream, it was 

 difficult to ascertain the thickness and extent of deposit. Good 

 sized plates were obtained, large enough for a medium-sized school 

 slate, three-fourths of an inch thick. 



The fourth exposure was observed near the head of a small run 

 entering Larry's Creek, northeast of Cogau House P. 0. The 

 measures occur about fifty feet above the bed of the stream, the 

 overlying rock being a soft, calcareous red sand rock, in places 

 having cavities containing nodules of green sand, which, upon short 

 exposure, disintegrate into a bluish and green sand. This bed has 

 been observed five to eight feet thick, the washing of the overlying 

 surface soil and rock obscuring the true thickness. The upper 

 layers being in the bed of a run, are quite soft and shelly, but layers 

 are quite regular at the top, being from one-fourth to one-half inch 

 thick, while lower in the measures they are from one-half an inch to 

 one inch in thickness. A marked peculiarity near the surface is 

 that a number of layers have a rounded, irregular surface on the 

 upper side and assume a great variety of concretionary forms. 

 The observer can find regular squares faced outsideof layers, but on 

 disturbing them they fall apart into all kinds of odd and 

 regular oval, ovoid and irregular forms, from a rough-cast for skin- 

 ning stones fitted for instant use to the aborigines' hand, to others 

 that a little labor by rubbing would soon have converted into the 

 same form. Some of the shales have the impressions of algse (?) 

 upon them. Toward the bottom the measures change and merge 

 into a pale, reddish and gray, micaceous, sandy shale, some of the 

 laminae curved with rough, shallow cavities over the surface. These 

 are followed by a shale which is somewhat cellular in appearance, but, 

 where exposed, there is nothing in the cavities. This, in turn, is suc- 

 ceeded by a more highly ferruginous shale and silicious layers, gray 

 and red in color. Among the gray measures, some are observed 

 quite micaceous, having a bluish film over the surface, while others 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 199 



are black on the line of the fossil markings; and, as this exposure 

 is all above any heavy body of water, it forms a good point of obser- 

 vation for a full order of superposition, though narrowness between 

 the banks of the run, with green timber growing thereon, is a bar 

 to any extensive investigations as to quantity or extent of the same. 

 The measures are all somewhat irregular on their bedding planes, 

 but give a nearly flat surface on one plane. The entire deposit is 

 ten to twelve feet in thickness, of which the pyrophyllite slates proper 

 occupy about five feet of the upper portion of the measures, and is 

 the only full section that has been seen. 



The fifth exposure occurs on Bear Run, a tributary of Little Pine 

 Creek, about two and a half miles from the mouth of the Run, on 

 the south bank above the forks. It adjoins the edge of the 

 Run, and is partly below water-level, a great hindrance to the 

 full and proper study of the section, which presents itself under 

 more inviting surroundings than any of the preceding exposures 

 in the extent and quality of the outcrop, as well as its very 

 interesting occurrence. It occurs at the foot of the side hill, about 

 1,400 feet above tide, in a cliff" ten to twelve feet high, and fifteen to 

 twenty yards in length. The overlying rocks are red and gray shales 

 and sandstones, of Formation No. IX, Catskill group, and the roof 

 rock is a calcareous ferruginous sandrock (with small nodules of red 

 oxide of iron disseminated through it) in part coming in as a wedge, 

 while another portion of the measures farther west — a brownish, 

 rotten sandrock — is the cover, immediately under which occurs a 

 thin, shelly, fissile, red slate, six to eight inches thick. This is 

 followed by two feet of very soft, gray, fissile slates, tV to i-inch in 

 thickness, increasing to ]-inch with much exfoliation. These may 

 be only the result of weathering at the surface, as it was observed 

 in going in on the measures a short distance, they became somewhat 

 thicker and more solid. The slates on the outcrop were quite soft 

 and aluminous (hardening on exposure). In a few of the layers 

 were impressions of algae (?) ; on others, numerous rough accretions 

 on the surface, simulating small fossil shells. Proceeding downward, 

 the slates assumed a more distinct layerlike appearance, and became 

 thicker, being }-inch to I2 inches — one surface was generally quite 

 smooth and flat, while the other would be somewhat irregular. Upon 

 getting into these thicker layers, the removal of them opened up 

 many odd and interesting forms resembling aboriginal stone imple- 

 ments. Below these the slates became thicker to water level, with 




200 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



more layers containing fossil impressions of plant life. The layers 

 now becoming more uniform in their bedding planes, with one, and 

 sometimes both planes, smooth and parallel to each other, of a thick- 

 ness of 1 to 2? inches, the surfaces having a slight film of a rusty, 

 ferruginous color, sometimes bearing arborescent forms. These 

 layers were observed 6 to 10 inches wide, and would evidently get 

 more massive working into the side hill. The total thickness of the 

 pyrophyllite slates is about six feet to water level. This exposure 

 is on lands of R. J. C. Walker and Wm. Weightman of Philadelphia. 




Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila. 189^. 



Plate I. 



Goldsmith, del. 



GOLDSMITH ON MINERALS AND ROCK. 





Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1893. 



Plate II. 



1: >| "S n j» 



Goldsmith, del. 



GOLDSMITH ON MINP^RALS AND ROCK. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1333. 



PL. III. 



KELLER ON BRASENIA PELTATA. 







1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 201 



April 4. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 

 Forty-nine persons present. 



The death of Isaac Burk, a member, March 30, was announced. 



A paper entitled " Description of the Lower Jaw of Tetrabelodon 



Shepardii Leidy," by Edw. D. Cope, was presented for publication. 



April 11. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 

 Ninety-eight persons present. 



A paper entitled " A Contribution to the Flora of Greenland," 

 by William E. Meehan was presented for publication. 



Prof. Stephen P. Sharples made a communication on the 

 Phosphate Beds of Florida, illustrated by lantern views. (No 

 abstract.) 



April 18. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 

 Forty-seven persons present. 



The death of Alphonse De CandoUe, a correspondent, the 

 9th inst., was announced. 



April 25. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 

 Thirty-five persons present. 

 The following were elected members : 



William M. Kerr, Joseph Leidy, M. D., James Brown Markoe, 

 Miss Elizabeth Wilson Fisher and Miss Lydia T. Morris. 



J. Victor Carus of Leipzig, Germany, was elected a correspondent. 

 The following were ordered to be printed : — 

 14 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



DESCRIPTION OF A LOWER JAW OF TETRABELODON SHEPARDII 



Leidy. 



BY E. D. COPE.. 



This species has been known hitherto by a third inferior molar 

 only. This has been described or fignred at the following places of 

 reference : 



Mastodon shepardii Leidy, Proc. Acad. Philadelphia, 1870, p. 98; 

 1872, p. 472. Cope, American Naturalist, 1884, p. 524. 



Dihelodon shepardii Cope, Proc. Amer. Philosoph. Soc, 1884, p. 5, 

 partim. 



Madodon observus Leidy, partim. Report U. S. Geological Survey 

 Terrs. I, p. 330, PI. XXI, 1873. 



A lower jaw of this species, lacking the condyles and supporting 

 the second and third true molars, was taken from the bluff in Crosby 

 County, Texas, from the same excavation that yielded the Pliau- 

 chenia spatula Cope, and within fifty feet of that at which the tooth 

 of the Dihehdon praecursor was obtained. It came into posses- 

 sion of Mr. M. M. Cox, of Estacado, from whom I obtained it by 

 purchase after my return from Texas. The acquisition of this 

 specimen is important as enabling me to determine the true charac- 

 ters of the species. Besides the last inferior molar, Leidy has 

 referred to it provisionally a fragment of a tusk, which, like the 

 molar, came from California, 



The second true molars are much worn, but they show, as was 

 to have been expected from the character of the third molar, only 

 three cross-crests without a rudimental fourth. The third true 

 molar exhibits exactly the simple characters of the typical specimen 

 described by Leidy ; that is, it has four well separated cross-crests, 

 and a very rudimental heel. The external half of each cross-crest 

 wears into a trefoil, while the internal half is simple and undivided, 

 and is a little anterior in position to the external half. The tooth 

 continues its width posteriorly, so that the transverse diameters at 

 the first and fourth cross-crests are equal. A marked character of 

 the species is the elevation of the anterior part of the ramus and the 

 decurvature of the symphysis, from which it results that the superior 

 face of the symphysis, or the spout, descends very steeply to its 

 extremity from the second true molar quite as in the proximal part 

 of the spout of Dinotherium. It has a very short horizontal por- 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



tion anterior to the second true molar to represent the long hori- 

 zontal production in Dihelodon tropicus, Mastodon americanus, etc. 

 The symphysis is also much compressed above, so that the spout is 

 narrow. The extremity of the spout is produced and contracted, 

 and slightly recurved at the extremity, and there issues from the 

 right side a well developed, vertically compressed mandibular tusk. 

 On the left side is the empty alveolus of its counterpart, which was 

 of much larger diameters than that of the right side. The portions 

 of superior tusks found in California are stated by'Leidy to possess 

 an enamel band. As there are mandibular tusks, I refer the species 

 to Tetrahelodon raihQT than to Dihelodon as heretofore. 



The contracted symphysis steeply descending forward and 

 expanding downward at the base from a posterior elevation, dis- 

 tinguishes this species from any of those of the genera Tetrahelodon, 

 Dihelodon or Mastodon known to me. Hence there is no question 

 of its difference from T. pro dud us Coidc, with which it was identified 

 by Leidy,^ where the symphysis is flat and much longer. In 

 Dihelodon cordillerarum, according to D'Orbigny and Burmeister, 

 the symphysis is not elevated behind, is produced and decurved 

 at the extremity, and has a wide spout — all characters quite differ- 

 ent from what is seen in T. shepardii. The symphysis is totally 

 distinct in D. tropicus, where it is toothless and not decurved, 

 and the last true molar is much more complex in the latter. 

 I formerly identified the species so abundant in the Equus Beds 

 of the valley of Mexico with this species. This determination 

 must now be reconsidered, since the form of the mandibular sym- 

 physis is entirely different ; there is no mandibular tusk, and the 

 last lower molar is not identical in form,' though I formerly thought 

 it not so different as to preclude the possibility of the species being 

 identical did no other differences exist. The differences observed in 

 this tooth may, however, be of sj^ecific value. The relative width 

 of the crown is greater, especially anteriorly, and the lateral borders 

 of the latter are not parallel, as in T. shepardii, but converge pos- 

 teriorly, as in M. praecursor. The lobes of the cross-crests are 

 opposite, as in the latter species. From M. praecursor this tooth 

 differs in the more tubercular and less crest-like character of the 

 cross crests, and in their more profound division on the median line, 

 especially in the third and fourth crests. M. jJraecursor is zygolo- 



* By reference to it of specimens of T. productus from Santa Fe, New Mexico, 

 in Report U. S. Geol. Surv. Terrs. I, 1873, p. 5. 

 ' Proceeds. Am. Philos. Soc, 1884, p. 5. 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



phodont, while the Mexican species is bunoloj)hodont. The various 

 characters just mentioned also distinguish 31. praeciirsor from 

 T. shepardii. There is no evidence that the Mexican species 

 possesses an enamel band on the superior incisors. My assertion to 

 this effect was based on a specimen which presents this character 

 which is preserved in the Esquela das Minas of Mexico. This 

 specimen came from Tehuichila, in the State of Vera Cruz, from a 

 formation which I subsequently determined to be of Loup Fork 

 age, so that the identity of the species with that found in the Equua 

 beds of the valley of Mexico is highly improbable. I therefore 

 refer the latter to the genus Mastodon under the specific name of 

 M. oUgobunis Cope. It differs from Dihelodon tropicus in the 

 smaller number of cross-crests of the last molar, and their greater 

 simplicity, since they are not divided at all, and the external halves 

 of the first and second only have anterior and posterior buttresses,. 

 in some of the individuals at least.^ 



Measurements of T. shepardii. 



-> ^ MM. 



Length of right ramus and symphysis 730 



Length of right ramus to symphysis 515 



Depth of ramus at posterior end of M. iii 135 



Depth'of ramus at anterior end of M.ii 175 



Width across both rami at posterior end of M. iii 420 



Width of right ramus at posterior end of M. iii 140 



Width of both rami at base of symphysis 214 



Width of spout at proximal end 65 



Width of distal extremity of symphysis 120 



Length of spout 215 



^. „ -, ..(anteroposterior 125 



Diameters oi M. u ^ . , ,, _^ 



(. transverse at middle 75 



^, ^-, ... (anteroposterior 164 



Diameters 01 M. Ill i ^ . .,,, ^p- 



( transverse at middle 75 



Diameters of right symphyseal tusk \ 



(transverse 27 



Diameters left symphyseal alveolus \^ 



(transverse 45 



' A figure of this tooth is given by Felix in Paleontographica, Vol. xxxvii, 

 pi. 30, 1891. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



A CONTRIBUTION TO THE FLORA OF GREENLAND. 

 BY WILLIAM E. MEEHAN. 



Early in 1891 the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia 

 endorsed Lieutenant Peary's proposition to explore Northern Green- 

 land, and organized the West Greenland Expedition under the 

 leadership of Professor Angelo Heilprin, to take the explorer and 

 his party to the spot chosen for their winter quarters. Dr. AVilliam 

 H. Burk, one of the Associate Editors of the Public Ledger was 

 appointed botanist of the escorting party. 



The two expeditions left Brooklyn on June 6th, 1891, in the steam 

 whaler " Kite " and reached McCormick Bay, in latitude 77° 43' 

 about the 29th of July. Here Mr. Peary and his party were left in a 

 comfortable frame structure which was erected on landing and which 

 is known in the annals of the expedition as the " Red Cliff House." 



The plants collected by Dr. Burk had barely been determined at 

 ihe Academy when there were indications that another expedition 

 might be sent to the same region, and it was thereupon decided not 

 to list the plants till the second collection should have been made. 



Lieutenant Peary had made his own arrangements to return and 

 events showed that he might, perhaps, have been able to carry out 

 his plans ; but the rumors of possible disaster led to a search expedi- 

 tion. This was also placed in charge of Professor Angelo Heilprin, 

 who had before demonstrated his capabilities for that position, and 

 the writer, like Dr. Burk, a member of the editorial staff of the 

 Public Ledger, was accepted as Botanist. 



The " Kite " was again chartered for the expedition that left St. 

 Johns, Newfoundland, on the afternoon of July 5th, 1892. It reached 

 the Island of Disco on the evening of July 14th and anchored before 

 the settlement of Godhavn, the capital of the Northern Inspectorate 

 of South Greenland, where the party remained until the evening of 

 the 16th. 



Collections of plants were made by the writer here, and subse- 

 quently at the following points farther north and south ; Uperuavik, 

 Cape York, Wostenholm Island, McCormick Bay, about the 

 abandoned Etah Eskimos settlement near Littleton Island, Sontag 

 Bay, Robei'tsons Bay, Nunatak in the Verhoeff Glacier, the borders 

 of Inglefield Gulf, table land of Greenland near McCormick 




206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Bay, and Godthaab, the capital of the Southern Inspectorate of" 

 South Greenland. 



Dr. Burk's collections were made at Godhavn, Upernavik, Duck 

 Islands, Cape York and !McCormick Bay. 



The range of territory covered by the writer and Dr. Burk, there- 

 fore, was between about latitude 63° and above 78° or between God- 

 thaab and Littleton Island. 



In the catalogue prepared, a copy of which with remarks is 

 appended, those which were collected only by Dr. Burk are so stated, 

 as also are those collected only by the writer. As nearly the whole 

 collection was repeated by each collector, it may betaken as a fairly 

 complete flora of that portion of the territory of Greenland. 



Before starting in their respective journeys, both Dr. Burk and 

 the writer were instructed to examine as far as possible the influence 

 of ice sheets on the geographical distribution of plants. Professor 

 Thomas Meehan, the father of the latter, in a " Catalogue of Plants 

 collected in July, 1883, during an Excursion along the Pacific Coast 

 in Southeastern Alaska " ' had given reasons for believing that plants 

 did not merely advance in the wake of retreating glaciers, or push into 

 growth from material brought down in their advance, but that when 

 caught under the mass of flowing ice, would remain for an indefinite 

 period, retaining vitality, and push again into growth when the ice 

 retreated. Professor ]Meehan was led to this conclusion from finding 

 no annual plants among those collected in the immediate Avake of 

 retreating glaciers in Alaska, while the actual number of species of 

 perennials collected in such locations would be as great as if much 

 time had been given for a floral advance. He had but little oppor- 

 tunity for actual observation as to the plants brought down with the 

 earth carried on the ice, but so far as this went only E])ilobiu7n 

 latifoliwn and Dryas octopetela were found in this condition, and 

 scarcely any plants were observed on recently deposited moraines. 

 These and some other facts led to the hypothesis that the plants were 

 not migratory, but had held their position through the whole icy 

 period. 



The writer believes he has added to these facts by the determina- 

 tion of the existence of much the same flora in isolated spots of land 

 recently bared by the neve of the inland ice, as grow away from the 

 margins of the ice sheet, while the finding of living willow trunks^ 

 grass and perennial plants of many years growth close to the edges» 



1 Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philada., 1884. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 207 



of retreating glaciers, seem to place the point beyond any reasonable 

 doubt, especially when after careful survey, through the construction 

 and positions of the glaciers, there was the absolute certainty that 

 the plants could not have been deposited by lateral, medial or 

 terminal moraines, though they might have been by ground 

 moraines, — a circumstance which would settle Professor Meehan's 

 position affirmatively beyond dispute, since the ground moraines 

 are borne under the flowing ice rivers. Abundant vegetation was 

 also found in nunataks, — peaks of land projecting above the glaciers 

 or ice cap, — but little significance was placed on this circumstance 

 since all such nunataks visited were within a reasonably close 

 proximity to the main land masses, and the vegetation might readily 

 have sprung from seeds blown there by the winds or brought by mud 

 on the feet of birds. But the demonstration of aged living plants 

 in the other situations named must have a strong bearing on the 

 discussions involved as to the influence of the ice age on the distribu- 

 tion of plants over the surface of the earth. 



The abundance of lichens is characteristic of the flora of Green- 

 land. Rocks supposed from a distance to be naturally colored are 

 found on closer inspection to derive their hue from a complete 

 investiture of some lichen. In this particular the crimson cliffs, 

 beginning at Cape York and extending many miles northward, are 

 a conspicuous example. These cliffs, rising sheer from the water's 

 edge to heights of from seventeen hundred to two thousand feet or 

 more, though of gray granite, show no spot of the intrinsic color even 

 on being nearly approached, but present a uniform red appearance 

 over their whole surface from a large orange red lichen Avhich covers 

 them. 



In view of Schwendener's theory that lichens are but symbiotic 

 forms of algae and fungi, it is to be regretted that the probably rich 

 fields afforded by the latter named great families in this region 

 have yet to be investigated. 



Mosses are even more abundant than lichens. They grow in such 

 vast quantities in spots, that their light or dark greens are visible 

 often for some miles away, brightening the otherwise bleak shores 

 wonderfully. Their persistence in growth under apparently adverse 

 circumstances is also remarkable. No obstacle save the sea seems 

 sufficient to stop their progress. Even dead glaciers have been and 

 are being buried under the steady march of these cryptogamous 

 plants. Mosses fulfil the same duty in Greenland that other forms 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



of plant life perform in more favored climes, and the amount of rich 

 vegetable matter being deposited by them may be of great value in 

 the future to that great arctic island. 



The Academy is indebted to Mr. Stewardson Brown, Correspond- 

 ing Secretary of its Botanical Section, for the determination of the 

 flowering plants ; to Dr. John W. Eckfeldt for the determination of 

 the lichens, while for the naming of the mosses the Academy is 

 indebted to the kindness of Mrs. N. L. Britton of New York, whose 

 knowledge of this department of botany is conceded to be pre-emi- 

 nent. 

 Ranunculus Lapponicus L. 



Dr. Burk. 

 Ranunculus nivalis L. 



Etah, in great abundance, and with great vigor, a point char- 

 acteristic of the vegetation about this ancient Esquimo settlement. 



Ranunculus pygmaeus Wahl. 



Apparently confined to swampy places. 

 Papaver nudicaule L. 



Common everywhere in Greenland. A remarkably variable 

 plant. On the table land, back of McCormick Bay (Prudhoe Land) 

 a white flowered form is somewhat common ; it has a more compact 

 habit and smaller flowers than the yellow or more prevalent form. 

 On Wostenholm Island, the compactness of growth is particularly 

 marked. The number of petals varies, and the margins are not 

 unfrequently fimbriate. In the vicinity of Disco the peduncles are 

 hairy. At Upernavik forms with hairy and smooth peduncles grow 

 together. 

 Cheiranthus pygmaeus Adams. 



Dr. Burk. 

 Arabia alpina L. 



Found only on Disco Island — only two specimens on soggy 

 ground, one in flower the other in fruit. 



Cardamine pratensis var. alpina L. 



Not in Dr. Burk's collections, and a single specimen only 

 gathered in wet ground on Disco Island. 



Vesicaria arctica Rich. 



Inglefield Gulf in dry places between rocks, in fruit middle of 

 August. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209 



Draba alpina L. 



Several varieties. McCormick Bay. 

 Draba hirta L. 



Varying remarkably in different localities. At Disco more tall 

 and slender than at Etah. In company with Papaver nudicaule, Dryas, 

 several Ranunculi and other flowers, with a luxuriant growth of 

 some Hypnum, it formed a striking feature in the flora of a " Nun- 

 atak," or suowless peak, arising out of the Verheeff glacier. 



Draba rupestris R. Br. 



Dr. Burk. 

 Cochlearia officinalis L. 



At Disco usually but about 3 inches high, but at Atanekerdluk, 

 in Waigat Strait, opposite Disco, double the size. A favorite food 

 of the Eskimos both North and South. 



Braya glabella Richards. 



McCormick Bay and Inglefield Gulf. 

 Xychnis apetala L. 



Remarkably variable. Sometimes with quite showy petals. 

 Flowers often singly on scapes, at others in 5-6 flowered capitate 

 heads, and again with flowers scattered along the stems. One spec- 

 imen at Inglefield Gulf close to the front edge of a receding glacier, 

 which spot had been covered by solid ice within a year or two. 

 Silene acaulis L. 



Everywhere in very wet or very dry places indiscriminately. 

 Cerastium alpinum L. 



At Disco spreading. At Upernavik sub-erect. Above Melville 

 Bay, at Wostenholm, and northwardly in small compact erect 

 masses. 

 Stellaria longipes Goklie, var. Edwardsii R. Br. 



On the Verha^ff Nunatak the plants were but two inches high. 

 Much larger elsewhere in Greenland. 

 Stellaria humifusa Rottbl. 



Seems scarce, only one small specimen from Disco. 

 Arenaria Groenlandica Spreng. 



McCormick Bay. 

 Arenaria peploides L. 



Disco. July 14th. One flower with a remarkably large colored 

 <;alyx ; the sepals being three quarters of an inch long. The cause 

 of this abnormal growth not determined. 




210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Fotentilla emarginata Pursh. 



Wostenholm Island, Upernavik, and on the Nunatak in the 

 Verhccff glacier. 



Fotentilla nivea L. 



Dr. Burk. 

 Fotentilla pulchella R. Br. 



Disco. 

 Fotentilla maculata Pourr. 



Disco, not in Dr. Burk's collection. 

 Fotentilla tridentata Ait. 



Godthaab, and as far North as Disco. 

 Dryas octopetala L. 



Next to Papaver perhaps the commonest flower of Greenland.. 

 Sometimes in clumps of a foot across, with sometimes a hundred 

 flowers open at once. Also on the Verhoeff" Nunatak. 

 Alchemilla vulgaris L. 



Varying in size. At Disco preferring wet places. 

 Saxifraga csespitosa L. 

 Saxifraga cernua L. 



Disco. On the Verhoefi" Nunatak. 

 Saxifraga flagellaris Willd. 



McCormick Bay. Appears to be rare. I only found a few 

 plants here, and only one specimen was seen by Dr. Burk, and that 

 in the same locality. ^ 



Saxifraga oppositifolia Willd. 



Growing in great masses, and giving great beauty to the rocks 

 about the " Redcliff" House," Lieutenant ^Peary's winter quarters. 

 Saxifraga nivalis L. 



Disco. 

 Saxifraga rivularis L. 



Above Meville Bay, not half the size of those at Disco. 

 Saxifraga tricuspidata Retz. 



Common everywhere. On the Verhoeff Nunatak. 

 Saxifraga azoides L. 



Wostenholm Island and McCormick Bay, not in Dr. BurkV 

 collection. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



Saxifraga stellaris L. 



Not in Dr. Burk's collection, but not rare at Disco. Much 

 larger than specimens from Point Barrow, on the Northwest 

 Pacific coast. 

 Sedum Rhodiola D. C. 



Rocks at Godthaab. 

 Cornus canadensis L. 



Godthaab specimen not collected though observed by me. 

 EpiloMum angustifolium L. 



Not collected by Dr. Burk. 

 Epilobium latifolium L. 



Found on cliffs close up to the ice cap. 

 Erigeron alpinus L- 



Found only by Dr. Burk. 

 Erigeron oompositus Pursh. 



Inglefield Gulf. It is interesting to note that while the plants of 

 Greenland vary much according to location, these are exactly like 

 Rocky Mountain specimens, and specimens of Nuttall from Walla 

 Walla on the Columbia River. 



Matricaria inodora L. 



This indomitable traveler has gained a foot-hold in Disco, Soil 

 was brought from Denmark for the Inspector's garden, and the seed 

 probably came in that way. 

 Antennaria alpina Gsertn. 



Varying in no degree from those in American alpine heights. 

 Artemisia borealis Pall. 



Disco. Not in the collection of Dr. Burk. 

 Arnica alpina Olin. 



In great abundance on the Verhoeff Nunatak. 

 Taraxacum officinale Web. 



The lividum form common at Disco. 

 Campanula uniflora L. 



Disco. 

 Campanula rotundifolia L. 



Disco. Nearly always with a single large flower on the scape. 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Vaooinium uliginosum L. 



Some of the plants have the leaves colored with rose. These are 

 always sterile ; only the fully green-leaved plants produce berries. 

 These are gathered and prepared for food by the Esquinios. To 

 us the berries seemed tasteless. 

 Rhododendron Lapponicum Wahl. 



Collected by Dr. Burk. I did not meet with it in flower, but a 

 specimen was among some given me by the Inspector at Disco, 



Bryanthus taxifolius Gr. 

 Cassiope hypnoides Don. 



Almost everywhere where the ground was dry. 

 Cassiope tetragona Don. 



Only in dry places. Emitting a delightful odor, like that of a Lily 

 of the Valley ; overhanging rocks in long spreading masses ; collected 

 and preserved for fuel by the North and South Greenland Esquimoa. 

 Ledum palustre L. 



" Labrador tea " and used as tea by the South Greenland Esqui- 

 mos. 



Pyrola rotnndifolia var. pumila L. 

 Diapensia Lapponica L. 



Disco. 

 Armeria vulgaris L. 



Disco. 

 Mertensia maritima Don. 



Sea Beach at Disco. 

 Veronica aipina L. 



Disco. 

 Bartsia aipina L. 



Disco. 

 Fedicularis oapitata Adams. 



Disco. 

 Fedicularis flammea L. 



Disco. Found only by myself. 

 Pedicularis hirsuta L. 



McCormick Bay. Variable. Now growing to a foot high and 

 bi'anching, and now but an inch or two high, with a simple stem. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 213 



Fedicularis Lappouica L. 



Disco. 

 Pedicularis versicolor Wahl. 



Disco. Dr. Burk. 

 Polygonum viviparum L. 



Sometimes with leaves in dense tufts with leafy flower stems. 

 When not viviparous the j^lant is dwarf and the flowers bright 

 rosy-red. In the inconspicuous state the scapes are tall and usually 

 leafless. 



Oxyria digyna Willd. 



Widely distributed throughout Greenland. 

 Betula nana L. 



Common in company with the arctic willow at Disco and south- 

 wardly, growing about six inches high, and forming tufts of several 

 feet radius. It is found from Cape Farewell to Duck Islands, the 

 south border of Melville Bay. This is probably its limit. I found 

 it no further north. Saved for fuel by the South Greenland 

 Esquimos. 



Salix arctica R. B. 



Average height 6 inches but spreading often to 6 feet in the circum- 

 ference of its branches. But its short stem grows quite thick. At 

 Disco, I saw one with the short trunk as thick as one's wrist, hang- 

 ing from a crevice in a rock. Grows at all altitudes from the Beach 

 line close to the ice cap. In Inglefield Gulf found large old plants 

 up to within 20 feet of a receding glacier, and on a spot which had 

 certainly been covered by ice less than two years before. There 

 were no lateral or medial moraines to bring the plants, and all the 

 facts on the spot led to the conclusion that the willows had been 

 buried when the glacier flowed over the spot and had been dormant 

 until the ice receded. Professor Heilprin coincided with me in this 

 conclusion. Catkins used by Eskimos for tinder. 



Salix herbacea L. 



Disco and Upernavik. 

 Abies obovata Loud. 



In sheltered fiords near Godthaab and southwardly. Only seen 

 and not collected by me or Dr. Burk. In some situations growing 

 from four to eight feet high. 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Empetrum nigrum L. 



The Eskimos are very fond of the fruit. Women and children go 

 out to gather it, as they would blackberries or strawberries with 

 us. I was told that at Disco and Godthaab the natives make pre- 

 serves of it. It is kept for fuel. 



Tofieldia palustris Hudson. 



Disco. 

 Luzula arcuata Mey. 

 Luzula spadicea D. C. 



Disco. Not in Dr. Burk's collection. 

 Eriophorum polystachyon L. var. latifolium. 



Called by the natives Ewiekswa — " Rabbits-foot grass." Used 

 by the Eskimos as punk or tinder. It is first ignited by a sparky 

 and then blown into a flame on dry moss. It grows in vast quantities 

 in low wet places. From Melville Bay south it reaches a foot high, 

 — but only about six inches above that point. 



Scirpus csespitosus L. 

 Dr. Burk. 



Carex vulgaris Fr. var. hyperborea. 

 Carex atrata Boott. 



Not in Dr. Burk's collection. Specimens in the Herbarium of the 

 Academy collected in latitude 81°, 82° by Dr. Emil Bessels of the 

 ill-fated Polaris expedition are barely 2 inches high. These from 

 McCormick Bay are about one foot. 



Xobesia scirpina Willd. 



Dry places, McCormick Bay. Plants remarkably stout and 

 stocky, but culms scarcely reaching three inches high, 



Hierochloe alpina R. & S. 



McCormick Bay. Making a close herbage nearly one foot high. 

 Alopecurus alpinus L. 



This seems to be the prevailing grass around Eskimo settlements. 

 It grows in such wild luxuriance, with herbage a foot in height, and 

 of such a vivid green that it can be seen for two or three miles from 

 the shore. Some of my specimens wei'e 18 inches in length. At 

 Godthaab hay is made from it. 

 Poa alpina L. 



Near Disco it grows from 18 inches to 2 feet high, but the leaves 

 are comparatively short. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215 



Poa arctica R. Br. 

 Poa nemoralis L. 



Upernavik. 

 Poa pratensis L. 



Not ill Dr. Biirk's collection. Abundant in .McCormick Bay. 

 At Disco it makes culms 18 inches to 2 feet. 



Trisetum sesquiflorum Trin. 



Collected only by myself. McCormick Bay. 

 Glyceria fluitans. 



Only by Dr. Burk. 

 Testuoa ovina L. var. brevifolia. 

 Festuoa ovina var. vivipara. 



At Godthaab, but growing only about six inches high. 

 Arctagrostis latifolia Griesb. 

 Elymus mollis Trin. 



Disco. Not in Dr. Burk's collection. At Atanekerdlut, reach- 

 ing three or four feet high along the Sea Beach. 



Equisetum arvense Lin. 

 Equisetum variegatum. 



Dr. Burk. 

 Woodsia ilvensis Br. 



Disco. In crevices of rocks. 

 Cystopteris fragilis Bernh. 



Disco. About 12 inch fronds, in crevices of rocks. Not in Dr. 

 Burk's collection. 



Nephrodium spinulosum Mul. 



Crevices of Rocks at Godthaab. Among the few things cultivated 

 by the Danes at Godthaab. Not in Dr. Burk's collection. 



Lycopodium annotinum L. 



Disco, reaching close to the edge of the ice cap. 

 Lycopodium Selago. 



Disco, reaching about two inches high. 



Lichens. 



The collection has been kindly determined by Dr. John M. Eck- 

 feldt. Those marked * were also collected in the first expedition by 

 Dr. Burk. f Collected only by Dr. Burk. 




216 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1893. 



The profusion of Lichens strikes the visitor to Greenland at once 

 on reaching its shores. Many species seem to have preferences 

 for peculiar situations, and give the rocks when at some distance the 

 appearance of being variously colored. 



*Cetraria nivalis (L.) Ach. 

 fCetraria Islandica. 

 Cetraria cucullata (Bill.) Ach. 

 •■ Alectoria ochroleuca Nyl. 



vav. rigida Fr. 

 Theloschistes lychneus Nyl. 

 Parmelia saxatilis (L.) Fr. 



McCormick Bay. 

 Parmelia conspersa (L.) Wallr. 



McCormick Bay. 

 Parmelia lanata (L.) AVallr. 



McCormick Bay. 

 Parmelia incana (Pers.) Fr. 



McCormick Bay. 

 Physcia pulverulenta Schreb. 



McCormick Bay. 

 TJmbilicaria proboscidea (L.) Stin. 



McCormick Bay. 

 TJmbilicaria rugifera Nyl. 



McCormick Bay. 

 *Umbilicaria hyperborea Ho£F, 



McCormick Bay. 

 TImbilicaria anthracoria Wulf. 



McCormick Bay. 

 Nephroma arctica (L.) Fr, 



McCormick Bay. 

 fPeltigera canina (L.) HofFm. 

 fPeltigera aphthosa L. 

 Solomia saocata (L.) Ach. 



Solomia crocea (L.) Ach. 

 fPannaria hypnorum (Hoff.) Kolb. 

 CoUema melaenum Ach. 



McCormick Bay. 

 Placodium vitellinum Ehrh. 



McCormick Bay. 

 Placodium elegans Link. 



McCormick Bay. 

 Lecanora lentigera (AVebb.) Ach. 



McCormick Bay. 



Lecanora ventosa (L.) Ach. 

 Einodina sophodes (Ach.) Nyl. 

 Pertasaria coriacea (Th.) Fr. 

 fPertusaria paradoxa Lindb. 

 Gyalecta peziza Mont. 

 tStereocaulon alpinum Lam. 

 Cladonia pyxidata (L.) Fr. 

 Cladonia gracilis (L.) Nyl. 



var. elongata, forma macroceris Tuck. 

 Cladonia deformis (L.) Hoff. 

 Lecidia platycarpa Ach. 



McCormick Bay. 

 Buellia geograpMca (L.) Tuck. 



McCormick Bay. 

 Sphaerophorus globiferus (L.) D. C. 



McCormick Bay. 



Coniocybe furfuracea L. 

 Verrucaria pygmaea Koelt. 



Parasitic on Cladonia gracilis. 

 Tbamnolia verinicularis (Sw.) Ach. 




1893.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 



Mosses. 

 Collected at McCoiinick and Robertson's Bay. 



217 



Andraea Blythii Schimp. 

 Aulacomnion palustre L, 

 Aulacomnion turgidum Wahl. 

 Bryum argenteum L. 

 Bryum inclinatum. 

 Bryum nitidulum Lindb. 

 Bryum pendulum. 

 Bryum pyriforme L. 

 Dicrauoweisia crispula Lindb. 

 Grimmia apocarpa Hedw. 

 Hypnum nitens Schrd, 

 Hypnum Richardsoni Mitt. 

 Hypnum splendens Hedw. 

 Hypnum uncinatum Hedw. 



Onchophorus polycarpus Bi-id. 



Onchophorus Wahlenbergii var. 



Orthothecium chryseum Brid. A Sch. 



Orthotriclium arcticum Schimp. 



Philonotis fontana Brid. 



Pottia Heynei var. 



Pogonatum alpinum and var. Roth. 



Pohlia cucullata. 



Pohlia nutans. 



Racomitrium lanuginosum Brid. 



Sphagnum fimbriatum var. Wils. 



Swartzia montana var. Lam. 



Tetraplodon bryoides Lindb. 



Funaria hygrometrica var. Sib. 



16 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



May 2. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 

 Fifty persons present. 



A paper entitled " Observations on the Japanese Salamander, 

 Cryptobranchus maximus (Schlegel)" by Henry C. Chapman, M. D., 

 was jjresented for publication. 



May 9. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 



Forty-seven persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 



" Observations on Vallonia," by Dr. V. Sterki. 



" Some new and little-known Palaeozoic and Jurassic Fishes," by 

 Edw. D. Cope. 



The death of J. Gibbons Hunt, M. D. on the 29th ult., having 

 been announced at the last meeting the following minute submitted 

 by a committee appointed for the purpose was unanimously 

 adopted : — 



Resolved, That the members of this Academy have learned with 

 profound sorrow of the death of their late associate, Professor J. 

 Gibbons Hunt, M. D., who, as one of the founders of the Biologi- 

 cal and Microscopical Section of the Academy and the first Profes- 

 sor appointed by the Academy under its by-laws, as amended a few 

 years since, to the Chair of Histology and JNIicroscopical Technol- 

 ogy, has rendered lasting services to the Society that are held in 

 grateful remembrance by his associates. 



That we also give expression to our sense of appreciation of the 

 late Professor Hunt as a pioneer teacher and master in the most 

 refined methods of modern microscopical research, for which, how- 

 ever, owing to his native modesty and reserve, he never received a 

 large share of popular recognition, though known throughout the 

 country to all specialists for the important improvements and dis- 

 coveries in technique, by means of which he had enlarged the possi- 

 bilities of a science but little cultivated amongst us when he began 

 his work upward of thirty years ago. That we vividly recall the 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



power and grace with which he could paint in spoken or written 

 words, the aspects and moods of that world of nature, great and 

 small, in field and forest, that he so dearly loved and enjoyed with 

 all the sincerity and philosophical sobriety of an Emerson. That 

 these traits and his readiness also to offer advice and help to 

 beginners in the fields of animal aud vegetable histology (in both of 

 which he was a deservedly recognized authority), his uniform 

 kindness of manner, uprightness and purity of character, have 

 endeared his memory to his fellow-members of the Academy. 



Cretaceous Ammonites and other Fossil-s near Moorestown, N. J. 

 Their stratigraphic jjosition shoivn by an Artesian Well Section at 

 Maple Shade, N. J. Incidental reference to Water Horizons. — Lewis 

 WoOLMAN stated that during the fall of 1892 there had been placed 

 in his hands for identification by Joseph AValton of Moorestown, N. 

 J., an interesting set of cretaceous fossils collected by him at the 

 clay pits belonging to A. A. Reeve upon the left bank of the north 

 branch of the Pensauken Creek, two miles very slightly south of 

 west from Moorestown station and between ISFaple Shade and Lenola 

 stations on the Burlington County R. R. 



The fossils are mainly in the form of casts, and are remarkably 

 well-preserved in comparison with similar fossils from other locali- 

 ties in the State. 



The most noticeable among them are two species of Ammonites 

 each about twelve inches in diameter, being considerably larger 

 than any of the same species now in the Academy's collection from 

 the State of New Jersey, though there are in the Museum two 

 individuals of one of the forms from the Delaware and Chesapeake 

 Canal that measure respectively 16 and 18 inches across. 



The number of species collected by Joseph Walton numbered 

 twenty-three, all raollusks except one — an Echinus. 



More recently visits to the locality have been made by C. W. 

 Johnson with a class from the Wagner Institute, by Prof. A. 

 Heilprin with the Academy's Geological Class and by the speaker 

 accompanied by Professors Smock and Salisbury. 



These parties collectively obtained not only all the molluskan 

 forms found by Joseph Walton but also forty-two additional ones 

 mostly of the smaller forms. This makes the total number of 

 species of mollusks sixty-four. 



There were also found fish remains consisting of teeth belonging 

 to the genus Pycnodus, and also undeterminable fragments of bones 

 and portions of crab's claws together with considerable lignite. The 

 latter was in some cases much bored by the Teredo and the cavities 

 frequently lined with minute crystals of iron pyrites. A number 

 of specimens of Martesia cretacea showing the shell were also 

 found in burrows they had themselves made in the wood. 




220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Through the courtesy of several members of the two classes a 

 considerable number of the specimens they procured were sub- 

 mitted for examination. These together with those previously 

 collected were carefully compared by H. A. Pilsbry and the 

 speaker with the figures and text of Whitfield's Paleontology of 

 New Jersey and with the works of other authorities, and also with 

 the types and other specimens in the INIuseum of the Academy. 



One form, Voluta delawarensis, was identified by Professor R. P. 

 Whitfield. Professor A. Heilprin kindly assisted in the final 

 determination of a few forms. In nomenclature we have followed 

 Whitfield, to whose work the specialist is referred for synonyms and 

 references to other literature. For convenience the volume, page, 

 'plate and figure where each is described and illustrated are noted. 

 The list is as follows : 



CEPHALOPODA. 



Ammonites {Placentaceras) placenta DeKav.' Vol. II, page 255 

 pi. XL, fig. 1, XLI, figs. 1 and 2. 



Ammonites delawarensis Morton. Vol. II, page 252, pi. XLII, figs. 

 6 to 9. 



Seavhites hippocrepis DeKav. Vol. II, page 262, pi. XLIV, figs. 

 8 to 12. 



Scaphites nodosiis Owen. Vol. II, page 261, pi. XLIV, figs. 13 and 

 14. 



Baculites ovatus Say. Vol. II, page 275, pi. XLVI, figs. 3 to 9. 



GASTEROPODA. 



Cerithium (Potamides f) Sp. ? 



Dentalinm subarcuatum Conrad, internal casts. Vol. II, page 166, 

 pi. XX, figs. 19 and 20. 



Dentalium subarcuatum Conrad, external impression. Vol. II, 

 page 166, pi. XX, figs. 21 to 24. 



Alaria rostrata Gabb, (numerous). Vol. II, page 119, pi. XIV, 

 figs. 5 and 6. 



Gyrodes infracarinata Gabb. Vol. II, page 125, pi. XV, figs. 13 

 to 16. 



Lxinatia halli Gabb. Vol. II, page 130, pi. XVI, figs. 13 to 16. 



Natica abyssina Morton. Vol. II, page 123, pi. XV, fig. 9 to 12. 



Turbinella parva Gabb. Vol. II, page 80, pi. IX, figs. 4 to 6. 



Turritellavertebroides 'Morton (J). Vol. II, page 146, pi. XVIII, 

 figs. 13 to 18. 



Voluta (?) delawarensis Gabb. Vol. II, page 84, pi. X, figs. 5 to 7. 



Volutoderma abbotii Gabb. Vol. II, page 173, pi. XXI, figs. 4 to 9. 



Volutomorpjha — Sp. ? 



Avellana bullata Morton. Vol. II, page 163, pi. XX, figs. 1 to 4. 



1 The rererences are to Whitfield's Palaeontology of New Jersey. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221 



Cithara crossivickensis Whitfield. Vol. II, page 107, pi. XIII, 

 figs. 7 and 8. 



Odontofusics slachi Gabb. Vol. II, page 66, pi. VI, figs. 8 and 9. 



Gyrodes obtusivolva Gabb. Vol. II, page 129, pi. XVI, figs. 9 

 to 12. 



Gyrodes altisjnra Gabb. Vol. II, page 128, pi. XVI, figs. 7 

 and 8. 



Margarita abysdna Gabb. Vol. II, page 133, pi. XVII, figs. 1 

 to 5. 



Modulus lapidosa "Whitfield. Vol. II, page 152, pi. XVII, figs. 

 6 to 8. 



Pyropsis alabamensis Gabb. 



Pyropsis naticoides Whitfield. Vol. II, page 43, pL II, figs. 5 

 to 7. 



Rostellites nasxdus Gabb, Vol. II page 86, pi. XI, figs. 1 and 2. 



Rostellites texturatus Whitfield. Vol. II, page 88, pi. XI, figs. 

 5 and 6. 



Rostellites angulatus Whitfield. Vol. II, page 88, pi. XI, figs, 

 3 and 4. 



Scalaria tJwmasi Gabb. Vol. II, page 137, pi. XVIII, fig. 1. 



Scalaria sillimani Morton. Vol. II, page 138, pi. XVIII, fig. 2. 



Scalaria sp ? 



Turritella encrinoides Morton. Vol. II, page 143, pi. XVIII, 

 figs. 19 to 22. 



Turritella lippincotti Whitfield. Vol. II, page 145, pi. XVIII, 

 figs. 23 and 24, 



Turritella puviila Gabb. Vol. II, page 187, pi. XXIII, figs. 

 5 and 6. 



Endoptygma umbilicata Tuomey. Vol. II, page 136, pi. XVII, 

 fig. 30. 



LAMELLIBRANCHIATA. 



Calliste delaivarensis Gabb. Vol. I, page 153, pi. XXII, figs. 8 

 to 10. 



Cardium (Criocardiimi) dumosHm Conrad. Vol. I, page 133, pi. 

 XX, figs. 9 to 13. 



Cardium (Fragum) tenuistriatum Whitfield (numerous). Vol. I, 

 page 139, pi. XX, figs. 15 and 16. 



Cyprimeria heilprini Whitfield. Vol. I, page 160, pi. XXII, figs. 

 14 and 15. 



Campto)iectes (^Amusixim) burlingtonensis Gabb. Vol, I, page 

 58, pi. VIII, figs. 3 to 9. 



Gouldia conradi Whitfield. Vol. I, page 125, pi. XVIII, figs. 1 

 to 3. 



Idonearca antrosa Morton. Vol. I, page 96, pi. XIII, figs. 6 to 11. 



Leiopistha j^rotexta Conrad. Vol. I, page 140, pi. XX, figs. 1 to 

 3. 



Neithea quinquecostata Sowerby. Vol. I, page 5(j, pi. VIII, figs. 

 12 to 14. 




222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Pinna laqueata Conrad. Vol. I, page 81, pi. XVI, figs. 1 and 2. 



Pholadomija occidentalis Morton. Vol. I, page 175, pi. XXIV, 

 figs. 1 to 3. 



Plicatula urticosa Morton. Vol. I, page 61, pi. IX, figs. 1 and 2. 



Ten ea ping wis Conrad. Vol. I, page 163, pi. XXII, figs. 1 to 3. 



Anoraia tellinoides Morton. Vol. I, page 43, pi. IV, figs. 12 and 

 13. 



Axinea mortoni Conrad. Vol. I, page 99, pi. XI, figs. 23 to 25. 



Aphrodina tippana Conrad. Vol. I, page 154, pi. XXII, figs. 

 6 and 7. 



Cyprimeria densata Conrad. Vol. I, page 157, pi. XXII, figs. 

 19 to 21. 



Clavagella urmata Morton. Vol. I, page 192, pi. XXV, fig. 24. 



Exogyra costata Say. Vol. I, page 39, pi. VI, figs. 1 and 2. 



Idonearca vulgaris Morton. Vol. I, page 98, pi. XIII, figs. 1 to 

 5. 



Mytilus oblivius Whitfield. Vol. I, page 64, pi. XVII, fig. 1. 



Martesia cretacea Gabb. Vol. I, page 190, pi. XXV, figs. 20 to 

 23. 



Panopea decisa Conrad. Vol. I, page 181, pi. XXIV, figs. 5 to 8. 



Trigonia mortoni Whitfield. Vol. I, p. 112, pi. XIV, figs. 5 and 

 6. 



Teredo irregularis Gabb. Vol. I, Dage 191, pi. XXV, figs. 18 

 and 19. 



Teredo tibialis Morton. Vol. 1, page 201, pi. XXVI. figs. 19 to 

 22. 



Veniella conradi Morton. Vol. I, page 144, jdI. XIX, figs. 8 to 

 10. 



Included in the total number of molluscan species as above 

 stated, and therefore to be added to this list, are two forms of 

 Gasteropoda pronounced by Prof. R. P. AVhitfield to be new to the 

 New Jersey fauna ; one of these, in a preliminary note received, he 

 inclines to regai'd as a Volutoderma and the other he states is 

 probably a Ceritliinm and much resembles C conradi Whitfield,^ the 

 type of which came from the cretaceous of Syria. These forms have 

 been again referred to him for further detailed description. 



ECHINODERMATA. 



Hemiaster parastatus Morton. Morton's Cretaceous Fossils, page 

 77, pi. Ill, fig. 21. 



It may here be noted that one specimen of Ammonites delaicaren- 

 sis has the outer Avhorls on one side broken off so as to show the 

 inner whorl. This initial whorl is identical in sculpturing with 

 Morton's figure of A. vanuxemi which was doubtless named by him 



2 See Bulletin New York Museum of Natural History, Vol. Ill, No. 2, page 

 428, pi. IX, figs. 11 and 12. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 223 



either from imperfect or from young specimens. This double nam- 

 ing of what is really one species has been noted by other Avriters. 



Respecting Dentalinm subarcuatum above listed numerous casts 

 occur that have generally been referred to that species. Most such 

 casts were obtained in nearly straight short fragments. Examples, 

 however, were noted in the specimens under study that were from 

 four to five inches long, more or less bent and irregular in some 

 parts of their length, while quite straight in other parts. This 

 irregularity suggests that instead of belonging to the genus 

 Dentalmm they may very probably represent casts made by the 

 filling in of the borings of some worm. This idea was suggested 

 by Professor A. Heilprin. These remarks do not, however, refer to 

 the external impressions listed as Dentalium which undoubtedly 

 belong to that genus. 



Most of the fossils occur in a bed of black sand about three feet 

 thick, interbedded between two clay beds, the lower one a thick bed of 

 black clay somewhat micaceous, and the upper one composed of two 

 divisions, as follows : that next the black sand, a ferruginous clay 

 with ironstone crusts, and the one above this, a soft, yellow clay. 

 Over these are the superficial or yellow gravels. A few fossils how- 

 ever are found both above and below the black sand but not in the 

 gravels. 



The yellow and the black clays are used for making bricks. The 

 black clay has been dug into or otherwise tested at the pits to 

 the depth of about 25 feet without getting through it. Its entire 

 thickness has, however, been ascertained to be 44 feet from a well- 

 boring recently made at Maple Shade, one mile west. 



The relative position of the fossiliferous horizon is shown in the 

 following section, which gives the thickness of strata as ascertained 

 at Reeve's clay-bank, and at the well as learned from a record 

 furnished by those interested in its boring. 



Surface gravel 5 ft. 



Yellow clay 8 ft. 13 ft. 



Ferriferous clay and ironstone crust 4 ft. 17 ft. 



Fossiliferous black sand, containing Ammo- 

 nites, Scaphites, Baculites and other Mol- 

 lusks 3 ft. 20 ft. 



Black clay 44 ft. 64 ft. 



(A) Fine and coarse gray sands at the top, 

 changing to medium and then to coarse 



and pebbly gravels at the bottom 33 ft. 97 ft. 



Green sand marl 6 ft. 103 ft. 



(B) Fine, gray sand and coarse gravel, simi- 

 lar to A 27 ft. 130 ft. 



White clay 100 ft. 230 ft. 



Red clay 10 ft. 240 ft. 



Alternations of sand and clav, sometimes 



reddish \ 20 ft. 260 ft. 




224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



(C) White saud 40 ft. 300 ft. 



White sand, fine, with streaks of clay 15 ft. 315 ft. 



White sand, coarse 15 ft. 330 ft. 



White sand, medium coarse 20 ft. 350 ft. 



White gravel, coarse 10 ft. 360 ft. 



White gravel, coarser 10 ft. 370 ft. 



(D) White gravel very coarse, with large 



pebbles and boulders 5 ft. 375 ft, 



The sands and gravels marked A, B, C and D, all furnish water, 

 and may be regarded as water horizons ; that marked A being the 

 one reached by wells dug in this neighborhood and which pene- 

 trate through the black clay. 



Excepting the few feet of surface gravels which are of more 

 recent date, it may be premised that all the beds in the section are 

 below the lower green sand marl bed, since they are\vest of the out- 

 crops of the same, as mapped by the New Jersey Geological Survey. 

 In the report of the survey for 1868, Professor G. H. Cook describes 

 next below the lower -green sand a series of beds of "clay marls," 

 with an estimated thickness of 277 feet, of which the upper 170 feet, 

 he states, is composed of laminated sands and thin clay seams, and 

 the lower 170 feet of heavy, dark clays and green sands. 



These "clay marls," in turn, rest upon another group of strata, 

 composed largely of white, yellow and red clays, termed plastic 

 clays, and which form the base of the cretaceous as it exists in New 

 Jersey. 



These plastic clays have a thickness, as shown in the report on 

 clays (N. J. Survey, 1868), of 347 feet. The plastic clays can be 

 distinguished from the " clay marls " by the entire absence of green 

 sand grains in them. 



Referring to the section, it may be noticed that beneath the black 

 clays there are 66 teet of fine and coarse sand and medium, coarse 

 and heavy gravels, including a parting near the middle six feet 

 thick, largely composed of green sand. The presence of the green 

 sand would seem to class these gravels with the laminated sands and 

 clay marls, rather than with the plastic clays. The division 

 between these two groups therefore occurs at the depth of 130 feet. 

 Allowing five feet for the surface gravels, we have 125 feet as the 

 thickness at this locality of the lower or dark clay and green sand 

 division of the group of laminated sands and " clay marls." The 

 thickness of the overlying gravel is, however, probably greater than 

 five feet upon the more elevated portions of this region, so that a 

 greater depth would have to be gone through in some places to 

 reach the yellow and black clays of the clay marl series. 



Remarks on Hcnvaiian Crania. — Dr. C. N. Peirce remarked 

 that Dr. I. M. Whitney of Honolulu, S. I., to Avhom the Academy is 

 indebted for the collection of crania presented this evening, had 

 informed him that the ancient Hawaiians had two quite distinct 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. • 225 



modes of burial of their dead, some being deposited in caves in the 

 rocks, which are numerous, while others are placed in the sands of 

 the sea-shore, which are frequently thrown up into hills of consider- 

 able size by the trade winds. Tradition places burial in caves as 

 the earliest and most important. The chiefs and men of note were 

 here laid away with great secrecy and care. 



In search of these, Dr. Whitney, after receiving the speaker's let- 

 ter of request, set out, in company with a friend, to the island of 

 Hawaii. After reaching the locality, they procured with difficulty 

 and at considerable expense, a couple of old native men to act as 

 guides. 



They were led over miles of rough, desolate land to a hollow, 

 which, to the uninitiated eyes of the explorers, looked like hundreds 

 of other similar places. The men threw out several large stones, 

 exposing a small opening. This, when enlarged as much as possi- 

 ble, admitted them into Egyptian darkness below. They crawled 

 upon their stomachs until a space was reached where they could 

 walk in a stooping position, carrying with them lighted can- 

 dles and bags in which to bring away anything of interest they 

 might find. This passage-way at last opened into a cave eight or 

 ten feet high and twenty feet wide, with ledges upon the sides. It 

 was here, wrapped in the tapa or Hawaiian cloth, specimens of which 

 are presented with the crania, they found what they had so long and 

 laboriously sought. These caves were dry and seemed pervaded by 

 some antiseptic influence. 



Dr. AVhitney thought that owing to the difficulty of reaching 

 these sacred precincts, the body was disemboweled, the legs were 

 doubled up, the head bent down, and the whole wrapped in thicknesses 

 of tapa cloth, so as to occupy as little space as possible. With the 

 bodies were found a great variety of objects, including a quantity of 

 ava, a root used for the preparation of a mild intoxicant, and sup- 

 posed to have been oflfered as food for the departing spirit, cala- 

 bashes, sticks used by bird-catchers, and some elegant large tapas 

 the size of a bed-spread. 



Dr. Whitney was assured that the cave had not been opened for 

 over seventy years, and that many of the crania were probably 

 several centuries old. 



Dr. Whitney has been, for many j^ears, a careful student of these 

 old burying places, but he had never before found any locality so 

 interesting as the cave from which he obtained the specimens pre- 

 sented to the Academy. 



The bleached crania are from the sand burial places, and were 

 partially or wholly exposed. The knees were flexed against the 

 breast and all tied closely about and buried in a sitting posture. 




226 proceedings of the academy of [1893. 



May 16. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 

 Fifty-four persons present. 



Rev. F. C. Morsell, in connection with the meeting of the 

 Biological and Microscopical Section, made an illustrated com- 

 munication on polarized light under the title "Taking a Sunbeam 

 apart," (No abstract.) 



May 23. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 

 Forty persons present. 



]May 30. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 



Twenty-three persons present. 



The deaths were announced of Edward Bancroft, a member, 

 May 22, 1893, and of Dr. Robert Hartmann a Correspondent, 

 April 21, 1893. 



Paj)ers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 



" Descriptions of two new species of North American Bombycidse" 

 by Herman Strecker. 



" The Measurement of the Radius of Curvature of the Cornea by 

 means of the Helmholz Ophthalmometer," by Henry C. Chapman, 

 M. D. 



Morris L. Orura and Ernest B. Sangree, M. D., were elected 

 members. 



Otto Staudinger of Dresden, Germany and F. Ducane Godman 

 of London, England, were elected Correspondents. 



The following were ordered to be published : — 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 227 



OBSEEVATIONS ON THE JAPANESE SALAMANDER, CRYPTOBRANCHUS 



MAXIMUS (ScWegel). 



BY HENRY C. CHAPMAN, M. D. 



Questions as to what constitute a good or a bad species, whether 

 a species should be elevated to the rank of a genus, or degraded to 

 that of a variety, concerning which naturalists at one time dis- 

 puted so vehemently, have lost much of their interest in the light of 

 evolution. Indeed, if all the extinct forms of animal life could 

 be reproduced, the gaps now separating living ones would be so 

 bridged over that the species, orders, families, etc., of the systematic 

 zoologist would cease to have any significance whatever. 



As an illustration of such conflict of opinion may be cited the 

 difficulty experienced by naturalists in assigning to the great Japan- 

 ese salamander its proper position in relation to other batrachia, it hav- 

 ing been named successively Salamandra maxima,^ Megalohatrachus 

 sieboldii,' Sieboldia max'ima^^ Cryptohranehus japonicii-'<,* Mec/aloba- 

 trachus ma.vimus,^ and, finally, if the author's interpretation of its 

 organization be accepted, Cryptobranchiismaximus. Inasmuch as the 

 Japanese salamander is not a salamander, as was supposed by 

 Schlegel, the name Salamandra was soon set aside, as it gave an 

 erroneous idea as to the aflRnities of the animal. Tscbudi, regarding 

 the form as sufficiently peculiar in its organization to Avarrant plac- 

 ing it in a distinct genus, designated it as MecjalobatracJms sieboldii. 

 Bonaparte, afterwards, wishing to do honor to the distinguished 

 naturalist Siebold, who first introduced the Japanese animal to the 

 notice of Europe, and regarding it also as a distinct genus of 

 batrachia, named it Sieboldia. The name Cryptobra7ichtis was 

 given as long ago as 1821 by Leuckart'' to our common Allegheny 

 hell-bender. That animal having been described, however, a few 

 years later by Harlan," first as Abranchus, a name soon given up, it 

 having been previously given by Hasselt to a mollusk from Java, 



1 Schlegel, Fauna Japonica, Lugd. Bat. 1838, p. 127, pis. 6-8. 



^Tschudi, Batrachia, Neuchatel, 18H8, p. 96, Taf. viii. 



^Bonaparie, Fauna Itilica, Tomo II, Roma 1832-1841. Sheet 131 * * * see 

 Euproctus. 



■'Van der Hoeven, Proc. Zoo. Sec, London, 1838, p. 25. 



^ Bou'enger, Catalogue of the Batrachia Gradientia, London, 1882, p. 80. Cope, 

 The Batrachia of North America, Washington, 188i(, p. 37. 



* Isis von Oken, Jena, 1821, p. 2-')9. 



'Annals of the Lyceum of Nat. History, New York, 1824, pp. 222, 27(1. 




228 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



then as Menopoma alleghaniensis, naturalists, at least in this country, 

 in speaking of the hell-bender usually refer to it even now as the 

 Menopoma, of course improperly, as the name Cryptobranchus, hav- 

 ing priority, should be used in preference. Van der Hoeven^ 

 regarding the so-called Japanese salamander as essentially in its 

 organization nothing but a big hell-bender or Menopoma, named it 

 Crypjtobrauchus japonicus, the Menopoma of Harlan being then con- 

 sistently designated as Cryptobranchus alleghaniensis, and the name 

 Menopoma was set aside. 



Boulenger and Cope, high authorities on the subject of the batra- 

 chia, regarding, however, as Tschudi and Bonaparte did, the Jap- 

 anese animal as differing sufficiently from the American hell-bender 

 (Cryptrobranchus syn. Menopoma) to warrant placing it in a distinct 

 genus, have revived in recent times the old name and designate it 

 now Megalobatrachus maximus. 



In dissecting recently a fine specimen of the Japanese animal, 

 measuring 46 inches in length (115 cent.) which lived for a number 

 of years in the Philadelphia Zoological Garden, the author was much 

 impressed with the similarity of its organization to that of our com- 

 mon hell-bender, of which he has dissected numerous specimens. It 

 may not be sujDcrfluous therefore to call attention to such parts of 

 the anatomy of the Japanese batrachian as have not been already 

 described, to those points in which the organization of the Japanese 

 and American forms agree and disagree, finally, as to why, in the 

 judgment of the author, the Japanese batrachian should be regarded 

 as a big hell-bender, a kind of Cryptobranchxis or Menopioma, rather 

 than as a distinct genus Megalobatrachus. 



The myology, splanchnology and nervous system of the Japanese 

 animal have been described by Goddard, Schmidt and Van der 

 Hoeven.*' Peculiarities of the hyoid apparatus and of the muscular 

 and nervous systems are incidentally alluded to by Fischer,'" more 

 particularly in their relation to the corresponding jiarts in the Per- 

 ennibranchiata and Derotremata. The osteology and splanchnology 

 are well considered by Hyrtl'^ in his beautifully illustrated mono- 



* Tijdschrift voor Natuurlijke Geschiedeni';, 1837-1838, p. 375. 



^ Aanteekenigen over de anatomie van den Cryptobranchus Japonicus, Haar- 

 lem, 1862. 



1" Anatomische Abhandl. iiber die Perennibranchiaten und Derotremen, Ham- 

 burg, 18(34. 



^^Cryptobranchus Japonicus, Vindobonae, 1865. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 229 



graph, while the blood corpuscles have been studied by Van der 

 Hoeven,'- Harting/^ Crisp'* and Gulliver.''^ 



The Japanese batrachian having attracted the attention of so 

 many eminent anatomists, as might naturally be supposed there 

 remains but little to be said that is new concerning its organization. 

 The author would, however, call attention to the fact that while 

 Hyrtl's description of the disposition of the pulmonary and branch- 

 ial arteries is such as observed by himself, nevertheless his figure 

 (op. cit. Plate II, fig. 4) illustrating the same is apt to mislead, as it 

 gives the impression that the two branchial arteries that unite to 

 form the aorta lie above the heart, whereas their natural position is 

 such as is represented in Plate V, fig. I ; 2, 3. Again, in reference 

 to the course of the pulmonary vein that conveys arterialized blood 

 from the lungs to the left auricular part of the heart especially dis- 

 posed to receive it, Hyrtl (op. cit. p. 94) simply says: " Foramen 

 venae pulmonalis in atrio sinistro, nullam valvulara praetextam 

 habet, ambitus ejus calami tenuioris introductionem concedit." 



In order to remove any obscurity that may prevail on this point, 

 the author takes occasion to observe that the common pulmonary 

 vein (indicated by the bristle, Plate V, fig. 2, a), formed by the 

 union of the two pulmonary veins passes along the inner side of the 

 common sinus, fig. 2, S, receiving the blood from the two pi-e-caval 

 and post-caval veins, without, however, communicating with it, and 

 enters the left auricular part of the heart, L A, by a distinct open- 

 ing, the sinus S just referred to entering the right auricular part, 

 R A, of the heart by an equally distinct one.'*' It is needless to add 

 that the author found the delicate septum separating the auricles 

 incomplete. 



The blood corpuscles having been previously described by a num- 

 ber of observers, it would be superfluous to dwell further upon their 



'^ Tijdschrift voor Natuurlijka Geschiedenis. etc., 8, 1841, p. 270. 



1^ Verslagen, Amsterdam, 1858, p. 368. 



'* Proc. Zoological Sociely, London, I860, p. 204. 



•^ Proc. Zoological Society, London, 1873, p. 162. 



'" At the time that the above was written, the author had not seen the Aante- 

 kenigen of Van der Hoeven. Through the courtesy of the Smithsonian Institu- 

 tion a copy of that work having been kindly placed at his disposal, he learned that 

 his description of the pulmonary vein was essentially the same as that previously 

 given i)y the Dutch anatomists — p. 43 : " De daardoor ontstane vena pulmonalis 

 communis is nog 57 mms. lang. en geheel vergrceid met de vena cava, met welke 

 zig opklint, zich lang zamer hand naar de regter zij de slingeiende; de in mond- 

 ing in dec linker voorhof is aan deszelfs achterwand gelegen, en lets meer naar 

 boven dan de opening der vena cava in den regter voorhof, der halve geenszins 

 in de onmiddellijke nabijheid van de spleet vormige opening onder aan bet septum 

 atriorum." 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



characters. In this connection it should be stated, however, as the 

 previous measurements made differ very considerably, that those of 

 the author, viz. iV nim. in the longest and zh mm. in the shortest 

 diameter, agree most closely with those of Gulliver. The disposition 

 of the genito-urinary apparatus is essentially the same as that 

 ■which generally obtains in the male derotrematous batrachia. The 

 form, position and relation of the testicles, their ducts passing into 

 the upper part of the Wolffian bodies, the ducts from the latter pass- 

 ing in turn into the common genito-urinary duct, the openings of the 

 latter and that of the bladder into the cloaca, are so well shown by 

 the representations from nature, Plates VI, YII, and the accompany- 

 ing diagrammatic figure, Plate VII, fig. 2, that any particular 

 detailed description of the same is unnecessary. 



Whatever may be the views of zoologists as to the natural affini- 

 ties of the Japanese batrachian, there has never been any difference 

 of opinion among anatomists on this point ; at least all those who 

 have had the opportunity of dissecting the animal have regarded it 

 as a large Cryptobranchus or Menopoma, the two animals resembling 

 each other so closely in their organization. Thus, for example, the 

 skull of the American Menopoma is a miniature of that of the Jap- 

 anese form. The hyoid apparatus in both animals consists of the 

 basi-hyal, glosso-hyal and cerato-hyal constituents. The glosso-hyal 

 is, however, sometimes subdivided into two pieces in Cryptobranchus, 

 while the cerato-hyals in the Japanese animal differ from the homo- 

 logous parts in the American one in being usually'" unsegmented, 

 gristly and joined to the glosso-hyal. While it is true that in the bran- 

 chial arches of the Japanese form only the first and second pair per- 

 sist, the remaining two pairs, corresponding to the third and fourth 

 pairs of the American form, disappearing, it will be observed that 

 those pairs which persist in the former agree with the corresponding 

 ones in the latter in that the first pair is unsegmented and that the 

 second pair is segmented and ossified. It should be mentioned 

 in this connection that the first pair of arches in the Japanese 

 animal unite at their inner ends, whereas the corresponding pair 

 in the American animal remain ununited. The uro-hyal bone is, 

 however, absent in both animals. 



i^Stannius, Handbuck der Zootomie, zweiter Theil, Btrrlin, 1856, S. 64 — "Auch 

 Salamandra maxima besitz drei Bogen : einen vordersten knorpeligen, dessen Sei- 

 tenschenkel je aus zwei Stiicken bestehen." 




1893.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



231 



Except in the points of disa- 

 greement just mentioned, condi- 

 tioned through the absence of 

 the gill opening, it will be ob- 

 served that the hyoid apparatus 

 of the Japanese batrachian 

 agrees essentially with that of 

 the American one. The general 

 character of the brain and the 

 manner in which the cranial 

 nerves arise and are distributed, 

 are essentially the same in both 

 batrachians. 



As might be expected on ac- 

 count of the similarity in the 

 skeleton of the two animals the 

 disposition of the muscles is essen- 

 tially the same. Indeed, as re- 

 gards the cranial muscles, the 

 only noticeable difference is the 

 absence in the Japanese batrach- 

 ian of the constrictores and adduc- 

 tores arcuum and the modifica- 

 tion of the levatores arcuum conditioned by the absence of the gill 

 opening. The remaining important muscles of the skull and hyoid 

 apparatus, such as the temporal, masseter, digastric, sub-mentalis, 

 sterno-hyoid, genio-hyoid and cerato-hyoid, are distributed in much 

 the same manner in both animals. 



The alimentary canal with its appendages, does not differ in the 

 Japanese batrachian in any respect from that of the American form 

 except that in the former animal, just within the lower jaw, two 

 larger racemose glands, about two inches long, were found, the 

 ducts of which opened on the floor of the mouth. From their 

 position and structure it is to be inferred that these glands 

 are salivary in function. Up to the present time, however, neither 

 submaxillary nor any other kind of distinct salivary glands have 

 been observed in the amphibia. The only notable difference in the 

 disposition of the vascular system in the Japanese animal as compared 

 with the American is that in the former there are three branchial 

 vessels, 1, 2, 3, Plate V, fig. 1, while in the latter there are four. 



Brain of Cryptobraiuhns niaxiimis. 



C H, cerebral hemispheres ; op, optic 

 lobes; Cr, cerebellum; M, medulla ; S, 

 spinal cord; I, II, III, IV, V, VII, 

 cranial nerves. 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF ' [1893. 



The manner, however, in which the blood passes to and from the 

 lungs is the same in both animals. The genito-urinary apparatus of 

 the Japanese Menojjoma does not differ from that of the American 

 animal. As in the case of the skull, the latter is but a miniature 

 of the former. 



From the above resume of the organization of the two batrach- 

 ians, it will be observed that the Japanese differs from the American 

 animal in one essential respect, and only one, viz. : in the absence of 

 the spiraculum or gill opening, and the modification of the hyoid 

 apparatus conditioned thereby. That little or no importance can be 

 attached to the presence or absence of the spiraculum as serving as a 

 generic character or as warranting the establishing of the distinct 

 genus Megalohatraclms, is shown by the fact of the spiraculum not 

 being always present in Menopovia. At least, in one instance, its 

 absence was observed by Boulenger."^ 



If the views here advanced as to the nature of the Japanese 

 batrachian be accepted, if it be admitted that it is a large Menopoma 

 — a Cryptobranchns — it will illustrate once more the truth of the 

 Linntean maxim : " una nota non facit genus," the true affinities of 

 an animal being determined, not by the presence or absence of a par- 

 ticular structure, but by the character of its entire organization. 

 The position occupied by the Japanese Crypto branchus or Menopoma 

 among the Urodela, if the animal be admitted to be such, would 

 then be between the Derotremata and Myctodera, according to the 

 old classification of Stannius," bridging over the gap between these 

 groups to such an extent that their taxonomic value loses most of 

 its significance. 



r Siredon 



1 yiren 

 f Perennibranchiata '| Proteus 



j L Menobranchus 



Urodela -{ . .^ . , fAmphiuma 



( ueiotiemata ^^ Cryptobranchus alleghaniensis 



I Abranchiata -| Cryptobranchus maximus 



Uyctodera {l^Z..ir. 



In conclusion it may not be uninteresting to call attention to the 

 fact that the Japanese Cryptobranchus was not always restricted to 

 Japan and China as it appears to be at present, it having, at one 



i» Op. cit. p. 82. 

 "Stannius, Op. cit. S. 4. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



time, a much wider geographical range, a very similar species, the so- 

 called Andrias scheuchzeri, living in Miocene times in Europe. This 

 celebrated fossil, discovered in the CEnigen quarries of Switzerland 

 and described in 1726 by the Swiss physician, Scheuchzer,^" is so evi- 

 dently a batrachian that it is astonishing that it should ever have 

 been regarded, at least by a physician, as the remains of a man — of 

 one who had witnessed the deluge, " Homo Diluvii testis," and that 

 it should have been reserved for Cuvier' to have correctly inter- 

 preted its nature. 



Explanation of Plates. 

 Plate V. 

 Fig. 1. — Bulbus arteriosus and branchial arteries. 



ba, bulbus arteriosus. 



1, 2, 3, branchial arteries. 



4, pulmonary artery, 

 a, aorta. 



Fig. 2.— Heart. 



5, sinus. 



bristle a indicates course of pulmonary vein. 



bristle b indicates course of sinus. 



L A, left auricle. 



R A, right auricle. 



V, ventricle. 



Plate YI. 

 Fig. 1. — Urogenital apparatus, anterior view. 



vd, vas deferens. 



T, testicle. 



dd', ducts. 



W, Wolffian bodies. 



R, rectum. 



B, bladder. 



cl, cloaca. 



Plate Vn. 

 Fig. 1. — Urogenital apparatus, posterior view; letters as in Plate 



VI. 

 Fig. 2. — Urogenital apparatus (diagrammatic), dd' ducts ; remaining 



letters as in Plate VI. 



2" Philosophical Transactions, 1726, Vol. 34, p. 38. Homo Diluvii testis et theo- 

 skopos, Tiguri, 172G. 



^1 Ossemens Fossiles, Paris, 1836, Tome Dixieme, p. 360. 



16 




234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



OBSERVATIONS ON VALLONIA. 

 BY DR. V. STERKI. 



The genus Vallonia, established by Risso' as early as 1826, has 

 been generally accepted only of late years. It has been ranged 

 under different groups of Helix by various writers, and later 

 regarded as a subgenus. In America, Morse^ was the first to treat 

 it as a genus, and he was followed by W. G. Binuey (Manual Am. 

 Land Shells, p. 76). 



Acanthinula Beck and Vallonia have been united by Kobelt, and 

 after him by Dr. v. Ihering^ to form Theba, a subgenus or genus of 

 Helix. Pilsbry, in his Check-List,* has placed Acanthinula as a 

 section under Patula, and Vallonia as a section under his subgenus 

 (or genus) Polygyra (Say), but subsequently'' he regarded Vallonia 

 as a genus. 



There are a few points known of the anatomy. The absence of a 

 secondary ureter, according to Braun and Boehme, as cited by v. 

 Ihering,® is characteristic. As to the genitalia, a dart sac is said to 

 be present, and there is a flagellum to the penis ; glandules mucosse 

 Avere not found by Lehraann or by Moquin-Tandon, as cited by v, 

 Ihering (/. c), yet appear to be present, as Pilsbry (I.e.) ranges our 

 genus under the group Belogona (" with dart sac and mucous 

 glands "). Further anatomic examinations of all the soft parts of 

 the body are necessary. My own observations are not ready for 

 communication. 



The comparatively large number of species and forms known at 

 present, all somewhat similar as to the shell and the rather charac- 

 teristic and uniform configuration of the radula and jaw, tend to 

 prove the individuality of the group as a genus, and that it is a well- 

 defined one. 



1 Hist. Nat, de I'Eur. Mend., iv, 1826. 



- Observations on the Terrestrial Pulmonifera of Maine. Journ. Portl. Soc. of 

 Nat. Hist., 1864, pp. 4 and 21. 



^ Morphologic und Systematik des Genitalapparates von Helix. Zeitschr. f. 

 wiss. Zool., 1892 (pp. 386-520, pi. xviii and xix) p. 480. 



* Nomenclature and Check-List of North American Land Shells. Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sc. Philadelphia, 1889, pp. 191-210. 



^ Preliminary Outline of a new classification of the Helices, Ibid., 1892, p. 396. 



^ L. c. and Les relation snaturelles des Cochlides et des Ichnopodes. Bull. Scien- 

 tifique, Paris, 1891, p. 214. — Unfortunately, Lehmann, lebende Schnecken, is 

 not accessible to me. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 235 



As with the genus so it was with the species ranged under it. 

 Miiller" described " Helix " pulchella and costata, and for nearly a 

 century, even up to Our own time, ahiiost all writers united them 

 in one species, under one or the other of the two names, generally 

 pidchella, regarding the other form as varietal. The fact alone 

 that the two forms, evidently of very ancient origin like the whole 

 genus, have persisted as such, side by side almost everywhere, over 

 a very wide area, is sufficient to prove their distinctness, not to 

 speak of the really marked differences of the shells. Only in the 

 last decades, however, has this conviction become prevalent ; and in 

 America, Morse (I. c.) was the first to express this opinion. On 

 closer study, conchologists admitted that there are quite a number 

 of other species besides the two " standard " ones. 



But of many of them it is difficult to judge. 1. Their anatomic 

 characters have not, especially the genitalia, been studied suffi- 

 ciently, and it is not known whether they pi'esent any specific pecu- 

 liarities'* apart from those of the jaw and radula. 2. The material 

 at hand, considering the shells alone, is insufficient to allow the 

 formation of a judgment whether certain forms are species, varie- 

 ties, or mere local variations and mutations. 3. The shells in this 

 genus are so uniform in size, shape and color, that it takes careful 

 comparison to become familiar with the forms and their peculiar 

 features, as well as the ranges of variation. 



When Mr. Pilsbiy requested me to study the genus, I knew very 

 little about it, and was disposed to decline. After a conscientious 

 study of the material at hand, and the literature accessible, I 

 believe I have effected something to promote our knowledge of 

 these minute and interesting mollusca. This paper, in the absence 

 of anatomical study and of specimens of many published species, is 

 not a monograph of the genus. It may, however, serve as a guide 

 to further investigations. 



To Mr. H. A. Pilsbry I am especially indebted for much informa- 

 tion, references to literature, etc., and I take this opportunity of 

 tendering him my hearty thanks. 



GENERAL DESCRIPTION. 



Soft parts. — They are, in general aspect, like those of Helix, but, 

 as already pointed out, there is no secondary ureter. A few other 



''O. F. MuUer, Vermium Historia, 1774, pp. 30, 31. 



* Such difference, however, may be looked for as probable, as such have been 

 found among nearly related species of other groups; co/i/. e. g. v. Ihering's book 

 on the genital apparatus of Helix, cited above. 




236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893, 



features have been indicated above and will not be repeated here. 

 Owing to the kindness of several couchologists, I have had living 

 examples of a number of species — V.pidchella, excentrica, costata, par- 

 vula, albula,perspectiva — and I have, besides observing the animals, 

 examined the jaw and radula, necessarily deferring further anatomi- 

 cal studies. 



The foot is small in proportion to the shell, being scarcely as long 

 as the diameter of the latter in the species seen. It is colorless, 

 translucent, as is also the head, so that the internal parts are seen 

 rather indistinctly from above — the jaw, buccal body, oesophagus, 

 with morsels of food and numerous minute air bubbles at times 

 passing it, and even the cerebral ganglia being observable with a 

 good lens. A fine, raised median line extends from the head over 

 the neck. A very fine but distinct line makes a narrow margin 

 or seam above the longitudinal edge of the disc or sole, which 

 show's about 8 to 10 distinct crenulations on either side from head to 

 posterior end. The raised parts are separated by very fine lines, 

 grooves or hyaline septa, which, on the posterior part, have some- 

 what the appearance of an inverted honey-comb, as the septa are 

 impressed. At the tail a slight groove, like a rudimentary mucous 

 pore, seems to be present. I could not determine distinctly separa- 

 ted or defined longitudinal areas in the sole, so that there is no true 

 locomotive disc as described by W. G. Binney, the whole sole being 

 probably comprised in such a disc, since the lateral parts are want- 

 ing, as in many Hyalinia, etc. The locomotive waves or undula- 

 tions extend over the whole width of the disc, and even on the mar- 

 gin above, succeeding each other rapidly and often somewhat irregu- 

 larly, advancing from the posterior end, about five at the same time. 

 They were seen when the animal was retiring in the shell and only 

 the posterior part of the foot still projecting and not attached to 

 anything. In the sole are seen numerous very small white dots, 

 such as are found in almost all our land and fresh water Gastero- 

 poda. 



The eye-peduncles are slender, very little if at all thickened at the 

 ends, glassy, with very finely granulated surface ; inferior tentacles 

 short but distinct. There are two rather large horizontal flaps or 

 lappets at either side of the mouth, but their margins are not cren- 

 ulated Si^ m Acmithinula harpa. In several species, such sls pul- 

 cliella, excentrica, alhula, I found the edge of the mantle slightly 

 colored with a rusty pigment at the periphery, but varying in the 

 different forms ; probably it will be found in all species. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 237 



The liver in jndchella and other species is light yellow, uormally, 

 but lighter or darker brown in some specimens. The latter color I 

 first thought to be caused by certain kinds of food, or by a certain 

 stage of digestion, but it lasted for several days, and even weeks, 

 during which the snails were confined and apparently not feeding, 

 therefore too long to admit of this explanation. It is probable 

 that the deeper coloration is caused by a degeneration, or incipient 

 decomposition of the organ due to old age, as I have seen it in 

 dead as well as in living specimens of this and other species and 

 genera of land shells. Observations in this line, checked by 

 microscopic examinations, should be made on Vallonla and other 

 forms. 



The ovotestis is extended all along the liver, up to the apex, 

 making numerous intersections. The ganglia were not examined 

 thoroughly. They seem to be of a somewhat peculiar type. In V. 

 parvula (and other species) the cervical masses are adjacent to each 

 other in nearly their entire length, and from these short commis- 

 sures are seen to be closely connected, probably visceral ganglia on 

 either side, while from the latter, long commissures extend to the pedal 

 ganglia respectively. These are of the form figured by Leidy in 

 Binney's Terr. Moll. I, PI. IX, f vii (of V. pulcheila). The rather 

 large, pear-shaped stomato-gastric ganglia are not adjacent to each 

 other. It may be added that I found parasitic worms, such as 

 probably infest all mollusca, in a half grown V. pulcheila ; there 

 were several comparatively large species. 



Thejmv is more or less arcuate, about 4-6 times wider than high 

 (in V. pulcheila, e.g. 0*23 wide, 0*064 high) rounded or slightly 

 angular at the ends, comparatively strong and partly of deep horn 

 or chestnut color in some; thin, flexible and pale in others (e. g. in 

 pempectiva and albula). The coloration is always deepest in the 

 inferior part, gradually fiiding from about the middle upward, so 

 that the superior edge is nearly or quite colorless. Sometimes it has 

 a slight, wide median projection to the cutting edge, as in F. excen- 

 trica (Plate VIII, fig. M), and as also indicated by Moquin-Tandon 

 for V. pulcheila. If this character be constant in exceutrlca, we 

 must suppose that the French author chanced to examine an exam- 

 ple of this species, which is widely distributed over Europe and has 

 been confounded with pulcheila. The anterit)r surface is somewhat 

 convex perpendicularly, as seen in figs. K and L, PI. VIII, and 

 bears more or less fine and crowded ribs, about 18-25 in number, 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Stronger and somewhat irregularly distributed, irregularly denticu- 

 lating the superior and inferior or cutting edges. In fig. I, Plate 

 YIII, they are exactly drawn from a jaw of V. pulehella, enlarged 

 about 300 diam., and it is distinctly seen that one rib stands 

 regularly on either side of the not otherwise marked median line, 

 being more distant in the superior part, then approximating to 

 near the cutting edge. The other ribs, about 12 on either side, 

 stand somewhat irregularly, sometimes in pairs. Xear the ends 

 of the jaw they become, rather abruptly, quite fine, visible only 

 under strong enlargement, so that otherAvise these parts appear to be 

 smooth. Whether this formation of the jaw is derived from a 

 goniognathous one in the embryonal stage remains to be determined, 

 but it is probable, the more so if we compare it Avith the jaw of V. 

 parvula (Plate YIII, fig. R). There the ribs, especially those on 

 the middle of the lateral parts, were not simply and symmetrically 

 raised, but their sides are steep, abrupt outward, more gently slop- 

 ing inward. Thus they give the impression of plates originally sep- 

 arated and grown together by subsequent growth. 



In the middle and upper ])art of the jaw, very fine, dense, some- 

 what irregular, horizontal " striie," apparently undulating, evidently 

 lines of growth, corresponding w^ith the ribs, are visible. 



From the main plate or jaw proper, a rather strong posterior 

 plate springs from the whole inferior or cutting edge, extends back- 

 ward without interruption and tapers into the long and strong 

 hyaline tenaculum 'membrane of the jaw. It evidently serves to 

 reinforce the jaw, and especially the cutting edge. Plate VIII, fig. 

 I, shows it as seen from the front through the main plate, from a to 

 b, on one side, both its contours being plainly visible. When the 

 jaw is resting on its front side the posterior plate may conceal the 

 cutting edge from sight, and then the latter appears to be quite 

 even, not denticulated, especially so in the median part. How far 

 this formation of the jaw is present in other land-pulmonates, I do 

 not know — very probably there are many intermediate stages. In 

 Patula striatella I have found it almost exactly the same as in Vallonia 

 and in the Zonitidce ; in Zonitoides lirjera Say, there is a distinct 

 indication of it, though with some modifications. 



The jaw, especially in the species where it is comparatively stout, 

 presents quite different aspects, according to the side and direction 

 from which it is viewed. Thus we may understand partly the fig- 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 239 



ures of Morse (l. c, V. viinuta), of W. G. Binney/ in which, in har- 

 mony with the descriptions, the superior and cutting edges have 

 evidently been mistaken for each other. The jaw was somewhat 

 softened by strong caustic alkali, and the object drawn was evidently 

 extended by pressure. 



The radula, or lingual membrane, bears markedly different cen- 

 tral, lateral and marginal teeth. I found from 23-33 in a trans- 

 verse row, the former number in cyclophorella and perspediva, the 

 latter in parvula. Morse counted 23 mminxda, W. G. Binney 21 in 

 pulcheUa. The difference may be partly explained by the rather 

 strong enlargement used by me, and partly by local variations. 

 The number of transverse rows varies from 63 m cxjclophorella to 84 

 in excentrica, and there is, as everywhere, some individual variation. 

 The size of the radula is not always in proportion to the shell. In 

 pulchella it is about 0"68 mm, long, and 0*24 wide ; in excentrica 

 with the shell rather smaller, the dimensions were found 0'79 and 

 0*24 respectively. One transverse row measures OOl-0'Oll in length, 

 while only 0*009 in perspediva. 



The central tooth is small, its plate of attachment narrow, as long 

 as the row space, the posterior end somewhat wider in various 

 degrees. If not carefully examined, this may appear so in a higher 

 degree than it really is, since the plate is not exactly in the same 

 level. The side edges of the posterior end are curved up 

 and the angles are projecting like cusps. Plate VIII, fig. P, 

 shows a central tooth of V. parvula viewed in half profile with 

 these angles projecting almost beyond the level of the cusps. The 

 reflection at the front end is small, short, and bears 3 cusps, the 

 median about 1-J as long as the plate. The side cusps are very 

 small, sometimes hardly perceptible. There are, as a rule, 3-4 per- 

 fect laterals, bicuspid, a larger mesodont and a small ectodont, the 

 former with a distinct free cutting point, the latter with just a trace 

 of it. The plate of attachment is almost as wide as long, and the 

 posterior part of the edge is curved up, as in the centrals, with the 

 angle projecting, also like a cusp. It doubtless acts as such, since 

 in the oldest teeth, where the cusps are nearly worn off, the same 

 is true of these posterior distal angles, including those of the central 

 tooth as represented in PI. VIII, fig. G. On the fourth or fifth 

 tooth sometimes the remains of the two cusps are no longer coherent, 



* It is evidently tlie same cut, but in different position ; and it must be noted 

 tliat Morse, /. c.,\n alibis tigures, has the cutting edges above, while W. G. Bin- 

 ney in his Manual, has them directed downward. 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



but isolated in this state. In the first lateral the mesodont is large, 

 as long as the plate or more so ; then it becomes gradually shorter 

 till in the last perfect lateral it scarcely reaches beyond the middle 

 of the plate. The ectodont is always small, but in some instances I 

 have seen it longer in the last lateral than in the one preceding. 

 W. G. Binney says (J. c.) that the posterior mesial (inner) angle of 

 the plate is suppressed. As a rule, I could see that angle well 

 formed in isolated teeth, although not projecting. 



Outside of the laterals follow 2 or 3 transition teeth, of which at 

 least the first mesial might range with the laterals, as there is a 

 well formed though somewhat shorter plate with the distal angle 

 not projecting and two cusps ; the mesodont becomes longer 

 again and the ectodont simple or subsimple, but finely double- 

 pointed, which splitting becomes more marked in the next follow- 

 ing tooth, thus resembling more the true marginals (PI. A'lII, A, 5 

 and 6, B 5, C 5 and 6, D 7, E 6, F 6.) 



The mesodont is of a peculiar formation in these transition teeth. 

 As illustrated in PL VIII, A 4, B 5, C 5,D 5 and 6, F 4 and 5, it 

 becomes obvious that the true mesodont is rather disappearing, 

 while, in fact, a different cusp, another element, grows out from it, 

 or rather, on the mesial side of it, in close connection with the plate 

 of attachment, which then becomes the mesial cusp of the true mar- 

 ginals, in which the plate of attachment does not reach beyond the 

 reflection. In these, the distal cusps, corresponding to the multi- 

 plied ectodont, increase in number up to 3-5 and even 6, gradually 

 becoming smaller and obsolete toward the distal end of the single 

 tooth as well as of the row ; so that, as a rule, the last tooth is 

 simply a small, wide, transverse bar, without any perceptible cusps. 

 At the same time these cusps become longer, like the teeth of a 

 comb, so that the marginals may be said to be YdiihQV pectinate than 

 serrate. In some species, there is a peculiar formation of the middle 

 marginals, especially in V. excentrica (PI. VIII, fig. B, 7-1 0), in 

 which the cusps do not stand singly on the base, but on a common 

 socle, thus giving the tooth a fan-like appearance. The same is 

 seen, but in a lesser degree, in V. cyclojjhorella, PI. VIII, fig. E, 7- 

 11. In these teeth the mesial cusps are particularly directed in- 

 ward. 



Shell. — It has already been said that the shells of all the Vallonia 

 species are remarkably uniform — there is moderate diversity in size, 

 the smallest averaging 2-0 (some si^ecimens 1"7) the largest about 




1893.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



3"5 mm.; all are openly and rather widely umbilicated ; the number 

 of whorls varies only between 3 and 4? at most; the coloration is 

 from colorless to pale or reddish horn, or to light gray. Yet there 

 are some features likely to sufficiently characterize the different 

 forms, even better than are those of most groupsofi/e/i.r with much 

 larger shells. The umbilicus may be rather narrow from its begin- 

 ning, or very wide, distinctly showing all the volutions, as in V. per- 

 spectlva and some varieties of costata. Usually it widens consider- 

 ably and rather abruptly, with the last ^-i whorl receding to the 

 periphery below ; sometimes this receding 'is not effected in the 

 part of the last whorl close to the aperture, but earlier, to keep in 

 a more regular circular or spiral direction in the last part, or even 

 to turn inward and thus again narrow the umbilicus ; it is thus in 

 , V. cyclophorella and iemdlahvis (i. e., the Kroellwitz shell, Man. 

 Conch., PI. 33, fig. 31) for instance. The peripheral outlines of the 

 shell, as well as the umbilicus, sometimes are distinctly elongate in 

 direction, not of the lai'ger diameter, but of one cutting off a part of 

 the last whorl (Man. Conch., PI. 33, fig. 35). There is also in the 

 species named and in F. costata var. pyrenaica, a slight but dis- 

 tinctly marked obtuse angle in the peripheral outline, about ^ of a 

 volution above the aperture (Man. Conch., fig. 30, 34). In V. excentrica 

 the umbilicus is narrowed by the last whorl, and then widened (fig. 8) 

 while above, the aspect of the shell is quite different from that of 

 the species mentioned (Man. Conch., PI. 33, figs. 32-35). These 

 characters may appear trifling, but they essentially characterize the 

 different forms, and must impress themselves upon any one examin- 

 ing and comparing great numbers of Vallonia. In comparatively 

 few forms the umbilicus shows a regular or approximately regular 

 spiral, as in T^. declivis (and alfi/is), and also in some varieties of 

 costata (^helvetica). 



As has been pointed out by different authors, the last whorl is often 

 decurved or descends toward the aperture, and that in the majority 

 of species. But it does so in different degrees and ways which are 

 very characteristic and deserve our special attention. 1. The lateral 

 i-i whorl may simply, gradually and steadily descend, without a 

 marked curvature of the middle upper part or " back," as it will be 

 called hereafter, of the whorl, and without a deepening of the 

 suture, such as is seen in T . declivis (Man. Conch. PI. 32, figs. 13, 

 16, 17), and in V. pollinensis Paul, (from the description). 2. In 

 other forms only the suture descends or deepens, rather shortly and 




242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



abruptly to the aperture, while the back of the whorl keeps straight, 

 horizontal (Man. Conch., PI. 32, fig. 25) or even a little ascending, to 

 the very margin, as we see it in V. parvula, and in some forms of 

 V. costata, while in most of them, (3) as a rule, the whole whorl 

 descends slightly (Man. Conch., PI. 32, fig. 21). 4. Still others have 

 the last whorl near the aperture markedly and decidedly entirely des- 

 cending, so as to form a distinct curvature of the back as in V. 

 perspediva (Man. Conch. PI. S3,&g.42),cyclophorella (Man. Conch., 

 PI. 33, fig. 37) and others. The suture either descends comparatively 

 more than the other part, or not so decidedly, as in the Kroellwitz 

 V. tenuilahris (?) These formations have a marked influence on the 

 shape and direction of the aperture, for the latter will necessarily 

 be more inclined where the last whorl is strongly decurved. Where 

 only or principally the suture descends, the aperture will be more . 

 circular, and less crescentoid, as becomes apparent at once if we 

 compare V. pulchella and excentrica with parvula and costata. 



In diflTerent forms the last whorl not only descends to the aper- 

 ture, but previously to that rises more or less gradually to or above 

 the niveau of the penultimate whorl (Man. Conch., PI. 33, fig. 33, 

 37), thus causing the spire to appear somewhat papilliform, if the 

 shell is viewed from the front. This we find most marked in V. 

 iyclophorella, tenullabris (Man. Conch., PI. 33, fig. 32), and others in 

 which the penultimate whorl appears narrowed above (Man. Conch., 

 PI. 33, fig. 30). This ascending is directly associated with rapid 

 recession outward as seen in those species at the base. The same 

 thing, though less strongly marked, is found also in many speci- 

 mens of V. costata, and, not infrequently, in pidchella. We have in 

 Helix (Pedmogyra) cunninghami Gray,'" a very illustrative model 

 of the described configuration of the last whorl, especially on the 

 upper side. 



The aperture is described as being more or less oblique. We 

 must here distinguish its direction as compared with the vertical 

 axis of the shell, which may be called its incUnation, from its direc- 

 tion compared with the horizontal axis, or its obliquity. The latter is 

 very marked in V. parvula 2inA perspediva (Man. Conch,, PI. 33. fig. 

 42) and others, where a prolonged horizontal line through the aper- 

 ture would just touch the circumference of the shell, that is, would 

 be tangential, or cut oiF a very small part of it. We find the con- 



10 In Tryon-Pilsbry, Man. of Conch., (2) VI, pi. 2, fig. 30, it is well shown, 

 although not especially mentioned in the text (p. 12). 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



trary in V. altilis (Man. Couch., PI. 32, fig. 17), where the aperture 

 is also very little inclined. 



As to the shape of the aperture, there are two principal groups of 

 species — in one it is nearly circular, no wider than high or rarely 

 so ; in the other the transverse diameter is greatest, and the aperture 

 is ovoid or pear-shaped. Most forms of the latter group have no 

 thickeued lip, as a rule, while those of the former may be of the 

 same character, or provided with a more or less strong white lip. 

 In a few forms the peristome is simple and straight, as in V. pollin- 

 ensis and V. altilis, while in most it is everted (or " reflexed ") in 

 various degrees and rather abruptly, as in pulchella, costata, etc., or 

 more gradually as in cyclophorella. It must be specially noted that 

 in all instances the peristome is straight above, not everted, at the 

 suture and for a greater or less distance from it. This will not be 

 repeated as a general character in the sj^ecial descriptions. 



It remains to say a few words in general about the structure of the 

 surface of the shell. Ribbed and plain species have been distin- 

 guished, but there are all possible intermediate forms between these 

 extremes, and it may be added at once that even in the same species 

 considerable variation may be found, e. g., in V. p)ulcliella and cos- 

 tata. What we generally call ribs are membranous elevations or 

 duplicatures of the epiconch, and, properly speaking, they do not 

 deserve that name. They vary from very coarse and rather distant, 

 and equidistant, as in some forms of V. costata, to quite fine and 

 crowded, and more or less irregularly set. I counted from 22 ( F. 

 costata var. amurensis) up to nearly 70 (in V. cyclophorella) on the 

 last Avhorl. These membranous ribs generally stand on stronger 

 striie or fine ribs of the shell itself. But in some species there are 

 rather strong true ribs devoid of membranes, as in F. gracilicosta 

 Reinh. To what degree the variability may go is seen in F. costata 

 var. helvetica, which has not a trace of membranous ribs and the 

 "shell ribs" are very fine stride, visible only with a good lens. It 

 is not sufficient, then, to say in descriptions, that a shell is "ribbed " 

 or " not ribbed," but the character of the ribs must clearly be 

 stated, as this is a prominent character. On the dead shells, and 

 sometimes partly on the living, the epiconch loosens and becomes 

 lost by the action of the water or atmospheric influences, and with 

 it disappear the membranous ribs. Such specimens, mixed with 

 more or less perfect ones, are esjDecially found in drift materials 

 along rivers and streams. It is unnecessary to say that fossil shells 




244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



are almost always in this condition, and it may be impossible to 

 know whether they originally had such ribs or not, if they be of a 

 form not represented in the recent fauna. 



It seems that there are also differences in the surface sculpture of 

 the nucleus or the (about IJ) embryonal whorls. While in the rib- 

 less species — V. pidchella, excentrica, declivis — it is, as a rule, 

 smooth, the ribbed V. eostata and related forms have it marked 

 with fine, rather dense revolving, raised lines (Man. Conch., PI. 33, 

 fig. 54), about 10 or less, on the visible part. AVhether they are 

 also present below the periphery of the embryonal shell I am 

 unable to say. 



Habits of the animals. — I have seen living specimens only of V. 

 pulchella, excentrica, eostata, albula and perspeetiva (of the latter only 

 one). They were kept in confinement for weeks. As we find 

 mature and young specimens at all times, it seems that their propa- 

 gation, as well as the duration of life, are not bound to a certain 

 season. Their movements are slow and somewhat unsteady — evi- 

 dently it is not easy to carry the comparatively large and heavy shell. 

 It occupies 15-30 seconds in transversing a space corresponding 

 to the diameter of the shell. They shun light decidedly, as do most 

 of our ISTorth American land snails. I repeatedly observed individ- 

 uals, when brought into day- or lamp-light, moving slowly with 

 head and disc only a little projecting, the eye peduncles quite short ; 

 when they were shaded, the latter stretched out and the motion 

 grew more lively ; when in full light again, the animal became 

 evidently uneasy, made a few quicker motions, and changed its 

 direction. It was generally several seconds before perception was 

 followed by motion. To judge also from other experiments, sight 

 seems to be very imperfect. It is not only in this group of molluscs, 

 but in others, quite unlike the sense of feeling, which is more acute. 



The heart is, as in other mollusca, strongly influenced by tempera- 

 ture and the degree of general activity or rest. In a temperature 

 of about 50-60° F., it contracts at a very slow rate, about 20- 

 25 per minute, but variously in different individuals, as will be seen 

 from the following observation : Of two mature V. pulchella lying 

 on the table at a temperature of about 65° F., one had the heart 

 contracting 72, the other 32 times per minute; after they had been 

 on my warm hand for about two minutes, the heart of the former 

 made 110, of the latter 68 contractions per minute. They are able 

 to live under water for a considerable time, even for several hours; 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



it may be possible that the small body absorbs air or oxygen from 

 that contained in the water. In one example which had been sub- 

 merged for more than half an hour, the pulmonary cavity was com- 

 pletely filled with water, and the heart contracted at a rate of 74 

 per minute, in a temperature of about 65° F. The foot was 

 stretched out and moving about, trying to get a hold, but the tenta- 

 cles kept deeply retreated, the dark eyes being visible above the 

 buccal body. 



Vallonia has a very wide geographical range, being distributed all 

 over the temperate region of the Northern Hemisphere. It is evi- 

 dently an old genus, geologically, as it has been found fossil in many 

 places, and its wide distribution in itself is an evidence of antiquity. 

 Three or four species are found on both continents. Of several 

 forms or species, we have yet little information, since they are 

 known only from single or a few localities. A few species have also 

 been found on the southern half of the globe — V. eostata in Aus- 

 tralia, jmlchella in Australia and Mauritius ; whether they are 

 endemic there, or introduced by trade or plants, etc., it is impossible 

 for us to decide at present, but the latter seems to be the more prob- 

 able. 



Of their station, we do not know enough to speak in a general 

 w'ay. They are mostly found under wood, stones, at the roots of 

 plants, etc., and seem to be gregarious. They are frequent on 

 mossy cliffs, and often in wet meadows, always, as it seems, more in 

 open places than in deep forests. They are therefore likely to be 

 washed off by heavy rains, and immense numbers of them, especially 

 dead shells, are carried to the water courses and then found in the 

 fine drift — always a matter of importance in collecting shells. 



The materials upon which the present paper was written, are: 

 the Draw^er series of Vallonia in the collection of the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia ("Acad. Coll."), about 35 lots, 

 kindly communicated by Mr. Henry A. Pilsbry ; the reserve ser- 

 ies of the collection of the National Museum, of Washington, D. C, 

 forwarded by the kindness of Mr. Wm. H. Dall, about fifty parcels, 

 and my own collection, now about 100 vials, comprising valuable 

 contributions from MM. O. Staudinger and A. Bang-Haas, of 

 Blasewitz, near Dresden, Germany. Several conchologists of this 

 country, as already stated, were so kind as to collect and send, at my 

 request, living examples of some of our American species. 




246 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



SPECIAL DESCRIPTIONS. 



Since the number of species has increased considerably in the last 

 decades, they should be described as exactly as possible, especially in 

 view of the above facts. Thus I think allowable the alteration of 

 previous descriptions of several species, especially V. puhhella and" 

 costata, in some points which proved to be essential in exactly 

 characterizing them ; and there is no use in citing the older 

 descriptions,^' or in especially mentioning the changes made — the 

 former are found elsewhere, and a comparison will show the 

 latter at once. 



In spite of some striking differences in the formation of the shell, 

 it appears to be impossible to divide the species under well-defined 

 subgenera or sections, as there are intermediate forms everywhere, 

 and the anatomy, especially of the jaw and radula, furnishes no 

 reason for doing so. An attempt, however, has been made to 

 arrange them in natural groups, in the table after the special 

 descriptions. 



It might be thought useless to name many varieties ; but this 

 could hardly be avoided after careful study of the forms, and more 

 of this has been done among larger mollusca. 



Judging from Morse's and W. G. Binney's description of Patula 

 {Planogijra) asteriscus Mse., I supposed this species might be a 

 Vcdlonia. One specimen was not softened sufficiently to be exam- 

 ined thoroughly. The radula, however, showed the essential char- 

 acters of Vallonia. Fresh specimens must be studied. Yet the 

 finer surface structure of the shell is different from that of all true 

 Vallonia I have seen : the nucleus is thickly set with minute pits 

 somewhat elongated radially, and the post-embryonal whorls show 

 microscopic revolving lines, as figured by Morse (L c). To judge 

 from Morse's (I. c.) figure 51. p. 24, of the front part of the animal, 

 this Avould also not agree with that of Vallonia. 



v. pulchella Muller. PI. VIII, fig. A, G. H, I, K, L. Man. Concb., PI. :i2, fig. 15.i 2 



Hel. piilchella Muller, Verm. Hisl., II, 1774, p. 30. 



Hel. puhhella Auct. 



Hel. paludosa Da Costa, 1780. 



Hel. C7ystallina DiUwyn, 1817. 



^' It may be mentioned that they do not always agree among themselves, and 

 that different forms have been comprised under one name and different characters 

 regarded as essential or otherwise by various authors. 



1^ Plates 32 and 3-i, referred to throughout this paper, will be found in Tryon 

 and Pilsbry's Manual of Conchology (2j, VIII. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 247 



■ Hel. pulchella var. lavigata Moq.-Tand., 1855, a. o. 

 Hel. mututa Say, Journ. Acad. Phila., 1817, p. 123. 

 Hel. 7nimita Sny, Nichols. Enc, ed. 3, 1819. 



Valhniia iiiinuta Morse, Pulmonifera of Maine, 1S64, p. 21 (p^ft). 

 Vallonia ininnta Tryon. Am. Journ. Conch., Ill, 1867, p. 36 (?). 

 Vallonia pulchella W. G. Binney, Terr. Moll. V., p. 344. 

 Vallonia pulchella W. G. Binney, Man. Am. Land Shells, 1885, p. 77. 



Shell of medium size, first moderately, then for the last \ whorl 

 widely umbilicated, convex or depressed conic above, pale horn or 

 straw colored, transparent or milky opaque, finely and densely 

 striate, somewhat stronger and rather regularly at the suture and 

 the umbilicus, shining, smooth at the nucleus ;'" whorls 3J-4, rather 

 rapidly increasing, with a rather deep suture, the last comparatively 

 large, well rounded, little expanded toward the aperture, not de- 

 scending in front or slightly so at the suture ; aperture moderately 

 oblique and inclined, I circular with umbilical margin a little 

 more straight and slightly protracted ; peristome decidedly and 

 rather abruptly everted, with a strong, white lip, thinner at either 

 end. 



Diam. maj. 2'4, min. 2*0, alt. 1"2 mm." 



Soft parts as described above for the genus. The liver was found 

 quite various in color : light yellow to lighter or darker brown, as 

 has been noted above. The action of the heart also is described in 

 the general description. 



The jaw (PI. VIII, figs. H, I, K, L) is rather strongly curved 

 with obtuse ends, and no median projection on the cutting edge. 

 The latter is riiore or less denticulated, irregularly, corresponding 

 with the 18-25 variously coarse, rather sharp, longitudinal ribs 

 irregularly distributed over the front plane of the jaw. For details 

 see general description, p. 235. The width of the jaw was found to be 

 0-1 3-0-23, the height 0-065-0-07 mm. 



The radula (PI. VIII, figs. A, G) has 65-70 transverse rows of 

 27 teeth ; it has already been said that Morse and W. G. Binney 

 counted 23 and 21. There are three perfect laterals, with rather strong 

 mesodonts, rapidly diminishing in size fx"om the first to the third. 

 The fourth and fifth make the transition, and at least the former is 

 diflferent from the true laterals only by the longer mesodont of the 

 peculiar formation described above. In the fifth, which still has a 

 ■well-formed though smaller plate, the mesodont is of the same char- 



^^ Yet, in a single specimen, I have seen few indistinct short lines. 

 "The altitude given here, and for all the following species, is of the whole 

 shell, since it is almost impossible to reliably measure in any other way. 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1893. 



acter as in the true marginals. Sometimes in tlie fourth, and even 

 in the third tooth, the ectodont, though essentially simple, is finely 

 double-pointed, and in the same longitudinal rows single- and 

 double-pointed ectodonts may be seen irregularly alternating. The 

 sixth, though a marginal in its configuration, still makes the transi- 

 tion, sometimes having an indication of a plate reaching beyond the 

 reflection, and bearing only two outer cusps, rather short and a pro- 

 longation distal-ward Avith room for additional cusps, of Avhich there 

 is sometimes just a trace in the form of a very short blunt fourth one. 

 The true marginals show 5-6 cusps, moderately long, in the 7th- 

 9th, the mesial one being somewhat longer than the second, 

 and slightly directed inward. The 12th tooth, like the following, is 

 a fine transverse bar, only finely serrate, while the 13th or last, 

 generally shows hardly a trace of cusps. 



One example showed a peculiar feature of the radula: At the 

 front end, for about 15 transverse rows, the cusps were Avorn oflT 

 almost entirely by rasping, as usual (compare fig. G, PI. VIII), but 

 here the cusps of the last few rows were less so than the others. For 

 this there can be no explanation but that after a period of com- 

 parative rest one of greater activity followed. 



The following dimensions of the radula were found in several 

 fresh individuals, as well as in those treated with alkali : length 

 0"68-0'71, width 0"24 mm.; length of transverse row about 0"01 

 ram. 



A younger specimen, of about 1"5 mm. diam., had the radula 

 with 60 transverse rows of 23 teeth, the first 3 on either side being 

 perfect laterals, the fifth a marginal, Avith only 2 or 3 small distal 

 cusps. The last 4 marginals are Avide and thin transverse bars, 

 with quite small cusps, the last Avith none at all. 



The striation of the shell is somewhat unequal Avhile quite fine 

 and irregular over the most part of the whorls, it is stronger and 

 rather regular at the umbilicus, and also at the suture ; here the 

 strife appear, under the microscope, like ribs, about 0'03-0035 mm. 

 apart. 



Westerlund says in his diagnosis (I. c.) of the present species: 

 " distinctly angular at the groove-like deepened suture." It made 

 the same impression on me; but after examining numerous exam- 

 ples in different stages of growth, it Avas found that the Avhorls are 

 equally rounded to the A^ery suture, and that the apparent angle 

 Avas an illusion caused by the reflection of the light. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PniLADELPHIA. 249 



Our species has a wide geographical distrihxdion. It is found all 

 over Europe, in Northern Africa/^ the Azores and Madeira, in at 

 least "Western and Northern Asia, and the greater part of North 

 America. It seems to be absent or scarce in Eastern Asia, as well 

 as on the Pacific slope of North America, and considering the rela- 

 tions of those faunas, this coincidence would not be surprising. 

 From California, I have seen only specimens taken in a green-house 

 at San Jose, and they may have been introduced there with plants. 

 I can not remember having found a report of them from the Pacific 

 coast, although Vallonia has been found on the Sierra Nevada. It 

 has not been reported from some of the Gulf States. It has been 

 reported from Florida, but Dall, in his paper on Florida land and 

 fresh water mollusca, does not enumerate it. I have received 

 several specimens lately from Mauritius, labeled as an unknown 

 Helix. There are specimens from New South Wales, Australia,, 

 in the National Museum. As already said, they are probably 

 introduced from Europe. 



It must be borne in mind that many faunal reports, especially 

 the older ones, should be received with reserve, since several species- 

 have been included under this name, which for a long time repre- 

 gented the entire genus. In collections, two or more diff^erent spe- 

 cies are generally confounded. In our country the name pidchella 

 was partly replaced by (^Helix) viinuta Say, the validity of which 

 name will be found discussed under V. excentrica. 



Our species has also been found fossil in the loess, etc., over a 

 great part of both continents, often associated with V. costata, teiiui- 

 labris and probably other species. 



It may be mentioned that about eighteen specimens from Pitts- 

 burgh, Pa., in the Academy's collection, are all darkened with a 

 distinctly sooty coat, an eflfect of civilization upon snails ! 



V. pnlehella is variable in size. While the average size is 2"4 mm. 

 or rather less, the smallest specimens measure 2*0, the largest 2'7, 

 but either extreme is exceptional, and I have seen none of 3 mm.'® 



1^ Dr. W. Kobelt, in the report on his collecting trips in Tunis, Algeria and 

 Morocco [Excursionen in Nordafrica, Nachrichtsbl. d.' D. Mai. Ges., 1884-86, 

 Eine Excursion nach Nord-Marocco, ibid. 1881, p. 149] does not mention this or 

 any other species of V^allonia. They seem, consequently, to be at leaht scarce 

 there. 



^®The following are measurements of specimens from different localities : 



Average. Largest. Smallest. 



Hermannstadt, Transylvania., 23 23 22 



Montecchio, Italy 23 2-o 2-1 



Sicily 2-3 24 22 



17 




250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



jSTow aud tlieu one is found with a small shell, rapidly increasing last 

 whorl aud comparatively large aperture, strongly recalling similar 

 examples of Helix thyroides Say. The whorls are, as a rule, S^-Si 

 in number, and only the largest shells have 4 or nearly so. There 

 is some variability in the size and shape of the umbilicus, being in 

 some nearly as in excentrica, while in others it is almost regular or 

 funnel-shaped ; yet a marked widening near the aperture is almost 

 always found. 



It has been accepted as a character of pulchella that the last 

 whorl does not descend at the aperture. This is only approximately 

 true because while not in such a degree as in some other species, 

 the last whorl descends distinctly, especially at the suture, in 

 about one- third or one-fourth of the specimens from different places in 

 Europe and North America. The last whorl, moreover, slightly 

 ascends more at the back than at the suture, and specimens are even 

 found with the last whorl first ascending and then descending 

 slightly but distinctly at the suture, a character which is found more 

 constant and more marked in V. cyclophorella, temdlahris and 

 others. 



There is some variation also in the size and shape of the lip ; it is 

 almost typically stronger in the upper outer part, so as to modify 

 the shape of the actual aperture, as shown in Man. Conch., PI. 32, 

 figs. 3 and 5, the same as in V. costata, fig. 22, and pulchellula 

 Hde., fig. 53. lu the upper part also the lip often protrudes 

 beyond the margin, and specimens are not uncommon where the 

 strong lip projects on the whole circumference, except at the ends 

 (fig. 4). While fresh shells are usually of pale horn color and trans- 

 parent, some may be found whitish or milky opaque. I found a 

 colony of about a hundred exclusively so colored some years ago, in 



Average. Largest. Smallest. 



Aargau, Switzerl. (drift) 2 3 20 2-1 



Lvons, France (the largest) 2"5 2-7 2*3 



Madeira .«. 24 2-.5 23 



Washington, D. C 2-3 24 2-2 



Saco, Maine (2 examples, only) 22 22 22 



Quebec, Canada 2-3 2.4 2-1 



Branlford, Ontario 24 2-5 22 



Tremont, Pa 24 26 22 



New Philadelphia, Ohio 2-3 2-6 2-1 



Joliet, III 2-4 2-5 20 



Iowa City, Iowa 2-4 26 22 



Greenville, Tenn 23 24 2-1 



San Jo'.e, Cal. (greenhouse) 23 2-4 2-1 



Mauritius 23 2-4 2-3 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 251 



a garden of New Philadelphia, all living, while at other places in 

 and around the city they were of the ordinary appearance. I have 

 seen the same form from other localities, yet it seems not to 

 represent a true variety. 



V. pidchella may be mistaken, when young or immature, for 

 Hyal. minuscula Binn., in North America only, having the same lip- 

 less, glassy shell and the same color of the soft parts. Yet the 

 somewhat exjjerienced collector will know the latter by the com- 

 paratively smaller, more gradually increasing (and so more 

 numerous) whorls, the generally stronger striation and the umbili- 

 cus being wider from beginning. On the Old Continent, there is 

 no land snail, as far as I know, which our species closely 

 resembles, even when immature, except other species of Vallonia. 



v. pulchella var. enniensis Gredl. Tirol's Conehylien, 1856, 



A form with strong, rib-like stride, but without membranous ribs. 

 It has been found in Tirol, at Neumarkt, Hall and Botzen. I 

 found' two specimens, evidently of this form mixed in a lot of V. 

 costata from Grasse, France (Acad. Coll.). The strise are very 

 strong, but the other characters of the shell are those of V. 'pulchella. 



V. pulchella var. hispanica, n. 



Shell small, diam. maj. 2"0-2*3, averaging 2'1, pale horn colored 

 or whitish ; whorls 3-3?, the last little predominating, somewhat 

 expanding toward the aperture ; the latter f circular ; peristome 

 moderately everted, with a moderately strong lip, little or not 

 thinner at the ends ; spire little elevated, in some examples 

 almost flat ; umbilicus as in typical pulchella ; surface strongly, 

 rather regularly striate, rather ribbed (ribs without membranes) ; 

 nucleus with rather strong revolving lines. Spain (no special hab- 

 itat), ten specimens in the Nat. Mus. Coll. Anatomical examina- 

 tion would be very desirable and possibly might show the form to 

 be a distinct species. Resembles the preceding variety. 



V. pulchella var. persica Rosen. Nachrichtsbl. 1). Mai. Ges. 1892, p. 123. i'^ 



Differs fi'om the type by the last whorl descending to the aper- 

 ture, with a flat [^planol, widely expanded peristome. Hab. 

 Schamhala, Prov. Chorassan, Persia. 



I have seen no specimens, but think this might be a form distinct 

 from pulchella. 



^^ Beitrage zur Kenntniss der Molluskenfauna Transkaspiens und Chorassans, 

 von Baron Otto Rosen, Ashabad. 




252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



2. V.excentrica n. sp., PI. VIII, fig. B, M. Man. Conch., PL .32, figs. 6-9. 

 Vallonia minitta Say, Morse, Pulmonif. Me., p. 21 (part.). 



Shell of medium size, with maj. diam. markedly longer, and with 

 irregular, somewhat elongated umbilicus at first rather narrow, then 

 for the last \ whorl raj^idly widening ; slightly rounded convex 

 above, smooth or very finely and irregularly striate, strongly and 

 regularly at the umbilicus ; nucleus smooth ; pale horn colored, 

 transparent or slightly opaque, with a somewhat fatty gloss ; whorls 

 3-3j, rather rapidly increasing with a moderately deep suture, the 

 last comparatively large, well rounded, expanding near the aper- 

 ture, not descending, or very little at the suture ; aperture moder- 

 ately oblique and inclined, t circular, subangular at the base ; the 

 umbilical margin somewhat protracted ; peristome not everted 

 above, very little at the periphery and moderately below, with a 

 rather strong white lip, thinner at the ends, visible through the 

 shell. 



Diam. maj. 2*o, min. 1'8, alt. 1*1 mm. * 



I was enabled to see the soft parts in a few specimens from Que- 

 bec, kindly forwarded by Mr. H. W. Hauham. The foot is, com- 

 pared with that of costata, a little less transparent and of a slight 

 yellowish tinge, as is also that of pulchella. But this difference of 

 tint is perceptible only when the animals are side by side. The Jaw 

 (PI. VIII, fig. M) is moderately curved above ; the cutting edge 

 with a slight, wide median projection and almost straight side 

 parts ; the ends are rounded. The front bears rather fine, dense, 

 sharp, slightly irregular ribs, all over. Size of jaw 0"08 mm. high, 

 0'28 wide, when depressed. 



The radula (PI. VIII, fig. B) has 81-84 transverse rows of 29 

 teeth. There are four perfect laterals ; the fifth marks the transi- 

 tion ; it distinctly shows the peculiar formation of the mesodont, 

 has smaller though well-formed plate of attachment, and two small 

 distal cusps, the ectodont being already split. The sixth is a mar- 

 ginal but still marks the transition: it is triangular, with 3-4 cusps. 

 AVith the exception of the last 1 or 2 which are hardly serrate, the 

 marginals are pectinate with 5-7 cusps, and the 7th-10th are 

 placed in a peculiar way, as at least the 3-4 mesial cusps are stand- 

 ing on a common socle. The radula is 0*79 mm. long., 0'29 wide ; 

 one transverse row measures, as usual, nearly O"01 mm. 



The animal seems to be somewhat less lively and more timid than 

 V. costata. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 253 



The geographic distribution is a wide one — all Europe and the 

 Atlantic side of North America. I have seen it from the Pyrenees; 

 France: Lyons, among a lot o^ pidchella, collected by Locard ; 

 Great Britain (no loc, in Nat. Mus. Coll.) ; Germany : Metz, Dres- 

 den and Neu Haldensleben in Saxony ; Austro-Hungary : Brosteni 

 in the Karpathian Mts. ; Switzerland: Jura Mts. near Brugg; 

 Caucasus. In North America : Washington, D. C.,mih piilchella ; 

 New Jersey : Princeton, Cape May, etc. ; Pennsylvania: near Phil- 

 adelphia ; New York : Staten Id., Litchfield, Mohawk and other 

 places; Massachusetts: New Bedford, etc.; Maine: Saco, Cape 

 Elizabeth, etc. ; Halifax, N. S. and Quebec in Canada ; Ohio ; New 

 Philadelphia, not found in loco, but in drift on the Tuscarawas 

 River. Further west it has not been noticed, so far. Among 

 numerous lots of V. pulchella from Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, 

 Wisconsin, Iowa, Tennessee and other States, I have not seen one 

 example. 



It is distinguished from the last-named species by its size, aver- 

 aging a little smaller, by the somewhat elongated outline of shell 

 and umbilicus, the last whorl more expanding toward the aperture, 

 the smaller and less elevated spire, the less deep suture, the peristome 

 little and not abruptly everted ; the difference in this is most marked 

 at the periphery (as clearly shown in fig. 9, compared with 2). 

 There are also differences in the jaw and radula, as pointed out in 

 the respective descriptions. One marked characteristic of V. 

 excentriea is the white lip shining through the shell above and at 

 the periphery, as it does in no other species. 



There is another peculiar feature : quite frequently, especially 

 from certain places, there are very small, whitish dots on the sur- 

 face of the shell, round, or irregularly shaped, single or confluent. 

 They are effected by the loss of the epiconch and evidently indicate 

 a change in the structure of the shell and may be caused by the 

 invasion of a fungus organism. This is the more probable as over 

 many of the spots, especially those less marked and noticeable, the 

 epiconch is apparently intact; probably they would show only 

 microscopic defects. These abrasions often become so extended as 

 to cover a great part of the surface. 



Our species is variable only Avithin narrow limits. The size varies 

 little above or below the average. Some specimens and local 

 forms show less of that characteristic elongate outline of shell 

 and umbilicus, and yet are not to be mistaken. There is also some 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



variability in the transparency of the shell — the New York and 

 New England specimens are, as a rule, more glassy and shining 

 than those from Washington, D. C. and from Europe. 



In a lot of Vallonia from the Pyrenees (no special habitat or 

 region is noted), belonging to the Academy Collection, there was 

 one poor weathered specimen of V. pidchella and a number of V. 

 costata, together with a peculiar variety, and the present form, 

 which then struck me for the first time as probably being a distinct 

 species. 



At Washington, D. C, I collected in February and again in 

 March, 1889, under granite stones, numerous Vallonia which then 

 were simply placed as pulchella. Many of those collected there 

 in March, under bricks in an old brick-yard were in company 

 with Hyallnia minuscula Binn., and Pupa procera Gould, of 

 which, it may be mentioned, I secured about 800 specimens in 

 a few hours by brushing the bricks. When I began to study 

 Vallonia specially, these shells were looked over carefully,'- and 

 then I was surprised to find both si>ecies, pulchella and the one 

 under consideration, in both of the two former lots, while those from 

 the brick-yard were pulchella exclusively. They were so exactly 

 like the Pyrenean shells that there could not be the least doubt as 

 to their identity ; they were so distinct from jyulchella as to be sep- 

 arated one by one at first glance, there being no doubtful or inter- 

 mediate examples. Subsequently I looked over every specimen of 

 more than 90 parcels of Vallonia containing either j^ulchella or the 

 new form, or both, coming from Europe and North America, and 

 the result was to establish the certainty that the present is a good 

 species, for which I propose the name V. excentrica. It is of a wide 

 geographical distribution, its shell being readily discerned when 

 once attention has been directed to its peculiarities. But it must be 

 added that specimens are found occasionally in which the distinc- 

 tion is somewhat obscure ; these are generally small pulchella which 

 had been damaged and restored more or less imperfectly, with little 

 everted peristome. I have several such examples : one from Illinois 

 which, at first sight, would be taken for excentrica, but by close 

 examination proves to be jndchella. On the other hand, one exam- 

 ple of V. excentrica, from Washington, D. C, has a rather strongly 

 everted lip, caused by a breakage near the aperture. 



It is somewhat surprising that this form has been overlooked in 



^^ As I have sent specimens to several conchologists, they should now be revised. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255 



Europe, being taken for jii'ichella. In North America we meet the 

 ohl question of the validity of V. {Hel.) minuta Say. When Say 

 described this species, "he was probably unacquainted wiihVallonia 

 pidchella of Europe, as he makes no remarks on the resemblance of 

 this species to the European form," as Morse (I.e.) justly 

 remarks, continuing: " Stimpson, Kirtland, and De Kay retain the 

 specific name of mimda for this shell, while Binney, Gould, W. G. 

 Binney, Adams, Mighels and all the European writers unite it with 

 pulchella." 



Among writers since Morse's publication, opinion is still divided. 

 Say's descrij^tion {I. c.) is as follows : " Shell rather thick ; spire con- 

 vex, little elevated, with three volutions ; suture well-defined, 

 impressed ; whorls obtusely wrinkled across ; aperture nearly orbi- 

 cular; lip much thickened, reflected, white, distant from the umbili- 

 cus; umbilicus large, exhibiting the volutions. Breadth less than 

 one-tenth of an inch." The description decidedly points to pulchella 

 in nearly every particular and can not be applied to excentrica. 

 Say, himself, however, later acknoAvledged the identity of his 

 viinuta with pidchella,^^ and these are reasons enough for not apply- 

 ing this name to a species distinct from jndchella. 



Morse- (I. c.) expresses the opinion that the American shell, 

 minuta, is distinct from the European, /)t</c/ie//a, and proves it, 

 mainly from the shape of the aperture and the angle formed by the 

 latter with the axis of the shell, the American form being more 

 translucent, and the epiconch somewhat different. 



J. W. Thomson'"' refers only to F. minuta, and adds : " I cannot 

 consider this species to equal H.pulchelhx Miill." It certainly is prob- 

 able that Morse had ourF. excentrica before him, as it, as well as jnd- 

 chella, is frequent in Maine, but it is surprising that he did not 

 speak of other differences, especially the peculiar shape of the 

 umbilicus, the outline of the whole shell, and the fact that the peris- 

 tome is very little everted in comparison with jJidchella. The trans- 

 parency of the shell differs in each species, and I have seen excen- 

 trica rather more opaque than usual in pulchella. The form of the 

 uppej part of the aperture is also variable in pulchella as well as in 

 excentrica, especially in the suture slightly descending to the aper- 

 ture in many specimens, while in others it does not. The difference 

 in the inclination of the aperture I have not found so constant and 



19 See W. G. Binney, Terr Moll. IV, p. 69- 



20 The Land Mollusca of Bristol Co., Mass., Journ. Conch., 1S85, p. 372. 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



marked after comparing numerous specimens from many localities 

 on both continents. 



Morse also speaks of differences in the lingual dentition and buc- 

 cal plate (jaw) between minuta ?ind ptdcJiella,hnt it seems not from 

 his own observations ; and it must be said that his description and 

 figure''^ of the radula seem rather to be drawn from pulchella than 

 from what we consider excentrica. The latter has the formula 14- 

 1-14, or 29 in a transverse row against 2^-1-23 in jndchella. I 

 would have drawn the marginals (or uncini, as he calls them) differ- 

 ently, had he then really had excentrica before him. Since the two 

 species live together along the Atlantic coast, it is probable that 

 they were mixed, as is the case in nearly every lot coming from the 

 coast from Maryland to Nova Scotia. The mistake was very likely 

 to occur, even in the case of such a careful observer as Morse. 



W. G. Binney,^- as well as other writers, is of the opinion that 

 there is only one species, pulchella, and his own description as well 

 as figures represent the same. Evidently he examined only exam- 

 ples of the species referred to. 



Has V. excentrica been introduced from Europe? It is found only 

 in the East, in the oldest settled jDarts of the country, where also 

 several European Limaces are common. But the latter live almost 

 exclusively in and about dwellings, while Vallonia seems to be 

 spread all over the region. Thus it may be considered native here 

 as well as V. pulchella and costata. 



3. V. adela Westerlund. 



BeL adela Wesierlund, Ofversigt af K. Vet. Ak. Forh., 1881, 4, p. 37. 

 Hel. adela Westerlund, Fauna der in der Palaearklischen Region lebenden 

 Binnenconchylien, I, Berlin, 1889, \>- I*!- 



" Shell openly umbilicated, depressed trochiform or convex, very 

 indistinctly, finely striate or smooth, whitish ; whorls 4-4 i, rather 

 convex, not at all angular at the rather deep suture, rather rapidly 

 increasing, the last comparatively large, rounded, not expanded, 

 not descending in front ; aperture crescentic-circular, with mar- 

 gins separated, peristome very narrowly everted or almost straight 

 and without a lip. Size 2? to 3 : 1 h to If mm. (Suabian Alps ; fossil 

 in a sub-marine peat-bog, near Ystad, in southern Sweden.") 



The above descrij^tion is translated from West. Fauna, I. c. I 

 have seen no specimens. Two examples, in a vial, with the label : 



■^iL. c.,p. 21, fig. 57, PI. 8. 



^- L. c. and Invertebrata of Mass. ed. II, p. 428. The outlines of the upper fig- 

 ure in the latter rather strongly resemble ihose of V. costata ; generally the 

 umbilicus is not as regular as shown in the lower figures of either work. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 257 



" Vallonia adela West., Ystad ; ex aiictore," kindly forwarded by 

 Mr. Pilsbry, are evidently incorrectly named. One of them is V. 

 pulchella with rather elevated spire, and a well-formed lip ; the other 

 costata with (for the species) also an elevated spire and strongly 

 descending last whorl. 



The species has not been figured. 

 3a. V.declivis (?) n. sp. Man. Conch., PI. 32, fig. 10-13. 



Shell of medium size, depressed conic, widely and regularly 

 umbilicated, whitish, transparent, surface with fine, dense stria?, 

 nucleus smooth ; whorls 4, gradually increasing, with a rather deep 

 suture, the last well-rounded, not predominating, slightly expanding 

 toward the aperture and gradually descending in its last third to the 

 periphery of the penultimate whorl or rather below it ; aperture 

 moderately inclined and oblique, nearly f crescentic-circular, the 

 inferior end of margin slightly protracted ; peristome straight 

 above, and very narrowly everted at tlie periphery and the inferior 

 part, with a thin but distinct lip. 



Diam. maj. 2"6, min. 2*4, alt. 1"4 mm. 



Soft parts not seen. 



Distribution : Central Europe. I received, about 12 years ago, 

 from Mr. S. Clessin, as Hel. tenuilahris Braun, 3 examples from the 

 drift on the Danube River, in Bavaria. Although dead shells, 

 they are fresh and well-preserved, and all exactly alike. I found 

 another specimen in drift on the Aar River, in Switzerland, also in 

 good condition, and of the same size and shape as those from the 

 Danube, except that it has no lip, and the margin is simple and 

 straight ; it may not, however, be mature. 



This form is evidently not V. tenuilahris of A. Braun, as it does 

 not correspond at all in several different points, \vith the description 

 of that species, nor any other known to me. It would, consequently, 

 not be amiss to propose a specific name for it. 



It is not " densely and acutely, finely ribbed," but very finely 

 striate, appearing almost smooth and shining; the peristome is not 

 everted, or very narrowly and indistinctly so, while in tenuilahris it is 

 " widened " (which evidently means everted) and the inferior margin 

 reflexed ; the aperture is not " transversely oval-rounded," and not 

 "very oblique," and the margins are not " very approximate," but, 

 for a Vallonia, markedly distant ; the shell is not " grayish-horn 

 with peristome yellowish horn colored," but whitish transparent 

 throughout. 




258 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



It differs from T". pulchella in its somewhat larger size, the 

 wider and more regular umbilicus, the whorls being J more in num- 

 ber and more slowly increasing, the last comparatively narrower, 

 gradually descending entirely to the aperture, and the peristome 

 being straight or just perceptibly everted with a much thinner lip. 



V. declivis var. altilis, nov. Man. Conch., PI. 32, fig. 14-17. 



This form differs from the above in its somewhat larger size, nar- 

 rower and deeper umbilicus, more elevated spire, the last whorl 

 descending below^ the circumference of the penultimate; the peris- 

 tome being quite straight and thin, without a lip ; the aperture is 

 very little oblique, in fact, the least so of all the Vallonia I know, 

 and moderately inclined, rather higher than wide, subangular 

 inward at the base ; whorls 43 ; the color is whitish, the surface 

 densely, rather regularly striate. 



Diam. maj. 29 min. 2*5, alt. I'T mm. 



This form might represent a species, but, from its similarity to 

 declivis, and the few examples known, I prefer, for the present, to 

 regard it as a variety. 



I found one specimen in 1882, also in drift on the Aar River, 

 Switzerland. Another has been kindly forwarded by Mr. Pilsbry, 

 it is from drift on the Main River, in Middle Germany, and bears 

 also the name H, tenuilahris Braun. They are exactly alike. 



I found, in 1882, while in Switzerland, among drift shells from 

 the Doubs River, on the western slope of the Jura Mountains, a few 

 specimens of either declivis or altilis, having then labeled them also 

 H. tenuilahris A. Br. 



All the examples of this species extant, though dead shells and 

 found in drift, are fresh and in good condition, and it is to be 

 expected that living specimens will be found in those countries. Tf 

 a new species has been established on the few specimens, it is 

 because they could not reasonably be brought under one of those 

 already known without modifying their diagnoses so that they would 

 have been valueless. 



I believed for a time that this might be the V. adela of Wester- 

 lundjjudging from the description. Butthe author says expressly that 

 the last whorl does not descend at all,-'^ while in the forms under 

 consideration this is just the prominent feature. Since I failed to 



23Conf. Wesierlund Fauna, I Suppl. 1890, p. 120, -f/. tenuilabrisyzr.nndtT V. 

 mionedon Bttg., also cited below. No. 1-1. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



obtain authentic specimens of adela, some doubt in regard to this 

 question will yet remain. 



4. V. pollinensis Paulucci. 



Ilel. pollinensis in Westerlund, Fauna, I Suppl., p. 120. 



Shell with a rather narrow, funnel-shaped umbilicus (the same at 

 the aperture, little and gradually widening), convex, with obtuse, 

 prominent apex, light horn colored, exceedingly finely striate, 

 adorned with more distant, acute, lamelliform, regular fine ribs ; 

 whorls 4*, regularly increasing, convex, with impressed suture, the 

 last gradually increasing and not at all expanded at the apei'ture, 

 rather constricted, scarcely wider than the penultimate, slightly, and 

 gradually descending above ; aperture little oblique, crescentic-cir- 

 cular, descending [?], margin straight, simple ; only the columellar 

 margin somewhat everted high up. Size 2* by Ij m. (Italy, Monte 

 Pollina in Prov. Potenza : Paul, ex.) Not figured. 



Translated from Westerlund, I.e. 



I have seen no specimeus. To judge from the description, it 

 seems to be a somewhat intermediate form between the above 

 species and the costate groups. 



5. V. costata Muller, PI. VIII, figs. C, N. Man. Conch., PI. 32, figs. 18-22, 27, PL 33, 

 fig. 54. 



Helix costata Muller, Verm. Hist., II, 1774, p. 31. 

 Helix costata Ro>sm. Icon., 439. 

 Helix costata Dupuy, Hist. 1848, p. 162, T. 7, fig. 4. 

 Helix costata Westerlund Fauna, I, p. 14 — a. o. 

 Helix pulchella var. costata of most authors. 

 Vallonia rosalia Risso, 1826 (ex. West. /. c). 



Shell with a moderate umbilicus more widening for the last \-\ 

 whorl, depressed convex above (or nearly flat), grayish to light) or 

 reddish horn colored, with rather regularly set membranous ribs and 

 irregular microscopic stria^ between them ; nucleus with fine revolv- 

 ing lines; whorls 82, slightly flattened above and below the periph- 

 ery, at the latter somewhat angular, with a deep suture, rather 

 rapidly increasing; the last expanding near the aperture and 

 shortly descending, more so at the suture than on the back ; aper- 

 ture rather inclined and oblique, almost circular, a little flattened 

 above and angular at the base, with ends of margin much approxi- 

 mate, slightly protracted and auricled, connected by a thin callus; 

 peristome strongly and abruptly everted, except near the suture, 

 with a .strong, white lip evanescent at either end. 



Diam. maj. 2*5, rain. 2'1, alt. I'l mm. 




260 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Soft parts: the foot is about as long as the diameter of the shell, 

 quite transparent, a little more so than in F. jmlchella and excen- 

 trica. The jaw, PI. VIII, fig. N, is rather strongly curved moder- 

 ately high, stout, chestnut colored in the inferior part, with 16-18 

 rather strong ribs on the front side, leaving about i of either side at 

 the end ribless and smooth. The cutting edge is denticulated, and 

 sometimes appears a little more straight in the median part, but 

 there is no projection. The lines of growth are distinctly visible. 

 Width of jaw 0-25, height 0-088 mm. 



The radula has 69-72 transverse rows of 27 (or 29) teeth. In 

 the central the side cusps are very small, barely perceptible, and 

 the side margins of the plate are curved up in nearly their entire 

 length. There are 4 perfect laterals with the mesodont compara- 

 tively thin, the ectodont very small, scarcely half the size of the 

 same in V. excentrica. The fifth makes the transition, but resembles 

 rather the laterals, having a well-formed plate of attachment with a 

 projecting posterior distal angle. Its mesodont shows an indication 

 of its transformation and the ectodont is essentially simple, but, at 

 least in some jmrts, with two points. The sixth or first marginal is 

 somewhat triangular, and with a distinctly backward extended plate 

 of attachment, and the reflection with 2 or 3 short distal cusps, as it 

 is still in the following or seventh tooth. On the other marginals 

 the cusps are comparatively small and stand immediately up on the 

 bases. Length of the radula 0*71, width 0"22-0'23 mm. 



V. costata is distributed over a wide geographical area, being 

 found all over Europe, Northern Africa, and the most part of Asia. 

 In North America it seems to occupy a wide area also, though it is 

 not as common as V. pulchella. It has been cited from Philadelphia 

 and Cincinnati. I have seen it from Washington, D. C, from 

 Quebec, Canada, and Isle d'Orleans, near that city, collected by 

 Mr. A. W. Hanham, also from Iowa, Nebraska, Kansas and Colo- 

 rado. All reports of distribution must be received with reserve, 

 and especially those from high altitudes in western North America, 

 as under the name of costata doubtless different forms are com- 

 prised, such as gracilicosta, parvida, cyclophorella and others. It 

 has also been found in Australia, by Cox, as reported by Brazier 

 (Journ. Conch., 1879).* 



Until recently, and even now, T . costata has been considered a 

 variety of pulchella. The characters of the shell, decidedly and 



* See Appendix. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 261 



constantly different from those of that species, prove it to be 

 altogether distinct. One of the main distinguishing features is 

 the presence of very fine, raised revolving lines on the nucleus, or 

 the I'T embryonal whorls, while those of T". pulcliella are smooth. 

 The generally much more depressed spire, the deeper suture beside 

 the rather flatter whorls above, the last whorl more rapidly expand- 

 ing toward and descending to the aperture, especially at the suture, 

 the more approximate margins rendering the aperture nearly circu- 

 lar, are sufficient to distinguish costata from pulchella, even in the 

 absence of the membranous ribs, the most striking character of the 

 average shell. 



Our species, however, has these ribs and most of the other charac- 

 ters in common with several other forms, mostly found in Asia and 

 North America, while in Europe T". costata seems to be more iso- 

 lated. On the other hand, several of those related species seem to 

 be intermediate between this and the tenuilahris-cydophorella, etc., 

 groups. All these forms need much more careful study. 



When seen under the microscope, the epiconch ("epidermis") 

 shows between the membranous ribs, 4-6 finer raised strise, and, in 

 addition, very numerous microscopic lines in a general radial direc- 

 tion, but mostly intercrossing in various ways, except near the 

 suture where usually they are parallel (Man. Conch., PI. 32, figs. 27, 

 28.) 



V. costata is quite variable, and a number of extreme forms must 

 be regarded as varieties. It may even prove to be difficult to draw 

 a line between this species and some others nearly related. In size 

 it averages 2*5 mm., few specimens measuring 2'7 or more, and the 

 smallest are 2*l-2"2. The number of whorls is almost constantly 

 3j, hardly more in the largest examples, and somewhat over 3 in the 

 smallest. There is variation also in the elevation of the spire — in 

 many specimens it is almost or quite flat and very low in the aver- 

 age. In those from Quebec, Canada, it is comparatively elevated. 

 As to the descending of the last whorl, it must be repeated that the 

 suture always descends more decidedly than the whorl in its totality, 

 and specimens are not scarce in which the back of the whorl keeps 

 nearly or exactly horizontal to the very margin, as in V. parvida 

 (Man. Conch, fig. 25, PI. 32). Some diversity is also found in the 

 size and closeness, or number of the ribs : I counted from 23-35 on 

 the last whorl in different specimens which may be regarded as 

 typical. The lip also is variable, but always rather strong, and 




262 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



specimens with a tliin or wanting lip are likely to be either 

 immature or erroneously identified. Occasionally the lip protrudes 

 strongly with a sharp edge, beyond the level of the aperture, as it 

 occurs also in V. pulchella. 



The following forms are more distinct, and must be regarded as 

 varieties : 



V. costata var. helvetica, n. 



Shell small, colorless, glassy-transparent, shining, with rather 

 regularly set, stronger (yet fine) stride, but without membranous 

 ribs ; umbilicus regularly spiral ; diameter averaging 2*2 mm. 



This is a very peculiar and beautiful VaUonia. It might be 

 taken for a diflferent species or for j^ulchella, but the deeper and, 

 at the aperture, descending suture, the more approximate margins, 

 and the regular though very fine rib-strise, range it near costata. 

 Those striffi are perceptible rather more by their being whitish in the 

 glassy shell than by their size. 



The originals were collected in 1882 on the Geissberg, Jura 

 Mountains, near Brugg, Switzerland, by Dr. R. Haeusler. After 

 the description, it is hardly necessary to add that they were quite 

 fresh, not weathered ; the epiconch, though very thin, was not 

 wanting. In drift on the Aar River, then being in the Jura 

 range, I found some more specimens the same year, together with 

 V. jyulchella, decUvis, typical costata, and intermediate specimens 

 between the latter and the present variety. 



V. costata var. amurensis, n. Man. Conch., PI. 33, figs. 50-52. 



Shell small ; umbilicus rather regular, wide perspective from the 

 first volutions ; spire nearly flat; ribs strong and distant, about 22 on 

 the last volution ; last whorl very little or not at all descending on 

 the back ; color deep horn ; diameter 2"2 mm. 



The. specimens are from Kassakewitsch on the Amur (Northeast- 

 ei'n Asia) and were kindly forwarded by MM. 0. Staudiuger and 

 A. Bang-Haas. 



V. costata var. pyrenaica, n. 



Shell large; umbilicus wide, perspective rather regular; whorls 

 4, more gradually and regularly increasing than in the type, the 

 last less expanding at the aperture, moderately or not at all descend- 

 ing in toto ; ribs small, hardly membranous. The outline is some- 

 what peculiar : there is a slight angle in the circumference of the 

 last whorl about i volution above the apertui'e, much as in V. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 263 



cydophorella (Man. Conch., PI. 33, fig. 30). Diam. 2-6-2-8 ram. 

 It is a form decidedly different from the type, but, as it seems, con- 

 nected by intermediate specimens.. 



Pyrenees (Acad. Coll.; see under V. j)erspectiva, p. 271). 



V. costata var. montana, n. 



Shell rather small and thick, colorless translucent, a little opaque, 

 spire a little elevated ; surface with rather crowded rib-striie, but 

 without membranous ribs ; last whorl slightly and gradually ascend- 

 ing, not at all or very little descending to the aperture in toto, 

 shortly and decidedly at the suture ; lip very strong. 



There are two specimens, not quite fresh, in the Acad. Coll., 

 marked " H. minuta Say, Rocky Mts., E. Hall," with the above 

 characteristics. They cannot be ranged under typical costata, yet 

 they have the general appearance of that species, so that they may 

 be placed as a variety under it until more and better specimens are 

 obtained. 



6. V. albula n. sp., PI. VIII, figs. D and 0. Man. Conch. PI. 33, figs. 48, 49. 



About the middle of Nov., 1892, Mr. A. W. Hanham sent me a 

 third lot of fresh Vallonia from St. Joseph, Quebec," Canada. 

 Among them were four beautiful examples, three of them living, 

 which I first somewhat doubtfully referred to V. gracilicosta. After 

 repeated comparison I find that they differ essentially from this 

 species. I cannot, with certainty, range them under any other. 



The shell is rather large, 2"7-2*8 mm. gr. diam., whitish translu- 

 cent, with a somewhat elevated spire; whorls 35-4; the last 

 whorl and aperture are rather well rounded, the latter resembling 

 that of costata. The lip is moderately strong. The ribs of the shell 

 are distinct but small, crowxled, about 55 on the last whorl, and 

 bearing fine membranes which give the surface a beautiful silky 

 gloss as in some cydophorella. There are differences in the eleva- 

 tion of the spire and the ascending of the last whorl among the 

 four specimens, as is the case in most other forms. 



In outer aspect the soft parts are much like those of other species. 

 The liver is pale yellowish or horn colored. The jaw and especially 

 the radula show some peculiarities, both being comparatively large. 

 The jaw is 0'31 mm. wide, of pale horn color, and appears some- 



** Mr. Hanham's assiduous collecting brought to our knowledge four different 

 Vallonia from the vicinity of Quebec: pulchclla, excentrica, costata, and the one 

 under consideration. 




264 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



what thin and flexible, with rather crowded, strong, irregular rib- 

 strise, evanescent toward the upper and strongly denticulating the 

 cutting edge ; the posterior duplicature appears also rather thin and 

 soft ; PI. VIII, fig. 0, shows it extended by pressure. 



I could not measure exactly the length of the radula nor count 

 the transverse rows in the specimen examined ; it is 0"27 mm. wide. 

 Formula R : 4+2 : 10 (11) ; there are, consequently, 33 (35) teeth, 

 the highest number seen in a Vailonia. The central tooth is of 

 common shape, rather wide but not much wider posteriorly, its 

 lateral edges curved up for the most part of their length. On the 

 4 perfect laterals the cusps are stout ; the fifth and sixth are transi- 

 tion teeth having a smaller though distinct plate, hut with hardly 

 projecting posterior distal angle. Their mesodonts are marked 

 of the formation pointed out in the general description, while the 

 ectodonts are simple in most, finely two-pointed in some inter- 

 spersed teeth. Of all laterals the ectodonts are larger than the same 

 in V. costata. The marginals are as usual, but with comparatively 

 few cusps. The seventh tooth from the center is a true marginal in 

 its whole configuration, though with only 2-3 short distal cusps ; 

 here the transition from laterals to marginals is more abrupt than in 

 any other species seen. The last marginals (1-2) are quite small 

 and with hardly any perceptible cusps. 



The shell is related on one side to costata, on the other to cyclo- 

 phorella, and seems to be intermediate. It resembles the latter in 

 its size and general appearance, the umbilicus being rather wide 

 and considerably expanding for the last J whorl, the latter distinctly 

 ascending before descending ; in the fine dense ribs, which are 

 stronger and sharper on the shell itself and bear smaller mem- 

 branes than in costata and in the coloration. It has, however, some 

 features allying it to costata — the aperture although less trans- 

 versely elongated, is not circular. The presence of a lip is charac- 

 teristic, and the peristome is rather abruptly and strongly everted, as 

 in costata. These characters, together with the formation of the jaw 

 and radula place this Vailonia in a peculiar position. I regard it 

 as a distinct species, for which I propose the name alhula, because 

 of its whitish shell. 



Mr. Geo. W. Taylor, of Victoria, B. C, sent me recently a few 

 Vailonia for examination, among which there was one specimen 

 from the Rocky Mountains, B. C, resembling in size and shape the 

 Quebec specimens, although it was weathered and had lost its epi- 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



conch. Two examples, in the same condition, from Winnipeg, 

 Manitoba, are related to these, but are somewhat smaller, and 

 resemble V.rcostata. V. albiila, therefore, seems to be widely dis- 

 tributed over the northern part of our Continent, and more speci- 

 mens will probably be found in that region. 



7. V. parvula, n. sp.,2 5 PI. VIII, fig. R. Man. Conch.. PI. 32, figs. 23-26, 28. 



Shell small, widely umbilicated, especially for the last i-k whorl, 

 quite flat above or with very little prominent apex, thin, horn- 

 colored to nearly colorless, with rather fine, dense, membranous 

 ribs (about 30-38 on the last whorl), and microscopic, intercrossing 

 lines between them ; nucleus with fine revolving lines; whorls a lit- 

 tle over 3, slightly flattened above and below the periphery, with a 

 deep suture : the last much wider than the penultimate, rather rap- 

 idly expanding toward the aperture and descending only at the 

 suture in front ; aperture veiy oblique, tangential and rather 

 inclined, almost circular with ends of margin much approximate; 

 peristome with a rather strong, pale horn colored lip. Diam. maj» 

 2*0, min. 1-6, alt. about 0*8 mm. 



I was enabled to examine the soft parts through the kindness of 

 Mr. Jas. H. Ferriss.'® The jaw is rather strongly curved, of about 

 the same configuration as that of V. costata (PI. VIII, fig. N), stout,, 

 of chestnut color, with about 18 strong, coarse ribs, strongly denticu- 

 lating the cutting edge. They are of the formation described 

 above (PI. VIII, fig. R). The side ends show hardly a trace of 

 ribs and appear smooth. 



I counted about 67 transverse rows of 23 teeth on the radula. There 

 are 3 perfect laterals, and the fourth may well range with them, being 

 very little modified by a somewhat small plate of attachment, the meso- 

 dont being nearly normal and the ectodont still simple but two- 

 pointed in most teeth. The fifth is formed like the marginals, but 

 the 2-3 distal cusps are very small and short. Thus the transition 

 is more rapid here than in any other species. There are 4 well- 

 formed marginals, with 4-5 comparatively short cusps ; the tenth 

 tooth bears hardly any perceptible cusps, and the eleventh (last) 

 not a trace of such. PI. VIII, fig. F, shows a central tooth in half 

 profile with the strong and cusp-like prominent posterior angles of 



»5See notice in Nautilus, V, No. 3, p. 100. 



*^ Wiio, upon my request to send living specimens, not finding any at Joliet^ 

 made a trip of 8 miles in the worst of weather to secure them. 



18 




266 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



the plate of attachment. A radiila was 0"58 mm. long, 0*2 wide, 

 thus one transverse row measures about 0*009 mm. in length. 



The ganglia are described above. 



This is a North American species, occurring apparently almost 

 exclusively in the prairie States. I have seen specimens from Joliet 

 and Ottawa, Illinois ; Davenport and Bonair, Iowa ; numerous 

 examples in drift on the Missouri River, collected at Eastport, 

 Iowa, together with T". codata and a few perspediva ; Nebraska; 

 Wichita, Kansas; Indian Territory. Doubtless many of them are 

 in collections under the name costata, etc. 



F. parvida much resembles costata, but it is decidedly and con- 

 stantly smaller, having scarcely half the bulk of the latter, and dis- 

 tinguished by the comparatively wider umbilicus and by the last 

 whorl not descending, the peristome, as a rule, being quite straight 

 on the back to margin, as shown in Man. Conch., PI. 32, fig. 25.' 

 Sometimes it is gradually and slightly ascending, as in T". costata, 

 jndcheUa, excentrica. Never have I seen a doubtful specimen 

 between j)arvula and costata, and they inhabit the same region. 

 Our species also resemble ^^er-spec^tra in color, size and presence of 

 the ribs ; the diiferences will be pointed out in connection with the 

 latter species. 



V. jMTVula shows a little variation. The average size is scarcely 

 2'0 mm. ; one is found with 2"1, but some are as small as 1'7. The 

 lip is almost always comparatively strong, and the aperture always 

 rather circular, sometimes as shown in fig. 26. One specimen 

 from Bird's Bridge, Will County, Illinois, among about eight which 

 I owe to the kindness of Mr. Ferriss, has the last whorl descending, 

 the peristome continuous and free from the penultimate, thus resem- 

 bling F. persjiectiva ; but the strong lip and the rather circular, not 

 transversely elongate aperture characterize it as ]jarvida. The 

 abnormity may be caused by a breakage, as in other species. 



For a time 1 regarded this Vallonia as americana of Ancey (ms.) 

 Mr. Theo. D. A. Cockerell kindly furnished me a copy of Ancey's 

 ms. description which I communicate here: Y. americana differs 

 from cyclophorella by its " taille plus faible, son ombilic tres-grand 

 aussi [?] et fortement dilate au dernier tour, ses tours a croissance 

 plus rapide, et en nombre moiudre (31 seulement) son dernier tour 

 nuUement descendant, plus ample a sa terminaison, son peristome 

 fortement epaissi, son ouverture a bords distants et beaucoup plus 

 grand," etc. From costata it differs " par I'ampleur de sou dernier 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 267 



tour vers rouveriure, le charactere de son orabilic qui est aiissi un 

 peu plus grand ; la croissance plus rapide des tours qui sont un peu 

 moius nombreux, enfin par sa taille plus faible." The size is not 

 giv'^en. 



This description would fairly well correspond with T^^ jmrvula, 

 but for one point. Ancey says: "son ouverture a bords distant," 

 while in our species they are much approximate, even more so than 

 in costata and in cydophorella. We can hardly understand how 

 Ancey would characterize T^. americana by comparing it with cydo- 

 phorella if it were the present species, since the two are very differ- 

 ent. There is no description of the color or the structure of the 

 surface. I did not succeed in procuring specimens for comparison. 



There is a note in Mr. Cockerell's letter worth communicating : 

 " costata var. minor — very small, diam. I5-II mm., compact, aper- 

 ture round, ribs very prominent." This small form, Avhich may, 

 perhaps, fall as a subvariety under americana, was found by Mr. D. 

 B. Cockerell at Niagara Falls, on the Canadian side. When send- 

 ing it to me he remarked : " The only place I found this variety 

 was on the Canadian side, although the type was common every- 

 where else but where I found var. costata." I confess that the mean- 

 ing of the last sentence is somewhat obscure to me. But the fact is 

 stated of the existence of a small costate form in that locality. Any 

 conchologists visiting Niagara Falls should be on the lookout for 

 this Vallonia, as well as for others. Mr. Cockerell wrote me that 

 the specimens in question had been accidentally destroyed. 



8. V. tenera Reinhard. 



I/e/. tenera Reinhard, Jahrb. D. Mai. Ges., 1877, p. 322, T. XI, f. 4. 

 (?) Hel. pulchellula Heude, Moll. Terr. Fl. Bleu, 1882. p. 20, T. 8. f. 17." 

 {i) Hel. pidcheliula Hilber, Sitzungsber. K. Acad. Wiss. Wien, LXXXVI, p. 

 3.2' 



(?) Hel. pulchellula O. v. Mcellendorff, Jahrb. D. Mai. Ges., 1884, p. 315. 



Unfortunately, the original descriptions are not accessible to me. 

 From two authentic specimens in the collection of the Academy, 

 fresh and evidently mature, or nearly so, we can characterize F. 

 tenera as follows : 



Shell rather small and of the general appearance of F. costata, 

 with spire little elevated, very depressed, conic, light grayish horn 

 colored, thin and transparent, somewhat shining; surface with 

 rather fine and dense membranous ribs, al)out 33-43 on the last 

 whorl ; umbilicus rather wide and regular, a little more widened for 



^^ Cited from Mcellendorff, /. c. 




268 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



the last i> whorl; whorls rather more than 3 J, regularly increasing, 

 a little angular at the periphery, with a rather deep suture, the last 

 moderately wide, distinctly flattened above and sloping outward, 

 somewhat expanding toward the aperture, ascending before, moder- 

 ately descending in front, a little more so at the suture ; aperture 

 very oblique and inclined, transversely elongate, markedly flattened 

 above, moderately curved below (not subangular) somewhat angu- 

 lar at the periphery, margins approximate, the superior more 

 advancing in front than the inferior ; peristome, except above, 

 moderately and abruptly everted with a rather thin, almost glassy 

 transparent, hardly white, lip. 



Diam. maj. 2-3 (2-2) min. 1-9, alt. I'O mm. 



Soft parts not examined. 



Shanghai, China ; Kobi, jSIiphon, Japan (Acad. Coll.) Dunca 

 Yosky, (?) Japan (Nat. Mus. Coll.). 



As far as I can judge from the few specimens seen, I believe V. 

 tenera Reinh. is a Avell-characterized species. 



To the kindness of Dr. O. v. Moellendorfl^, 1 owe three specimens 

 of V. pnlchelhila Heude, from Shanghai, China. One of them has 

 a diam. maj. of 2'3, the others of scarcely 2'2 mm.; the former corre- 

 sponds exactly with those of tenera Reinh., described above, while 

 the two smaller ones are somewhat diflferent in coloration, which is 

 rather yellowish horn, and in their umbilicus being a little narrower 

 in the upper part and then more rapidly widening. In the collec- 

 tion of the Academy there are two specimens of V. pulchelhda Hde. 

 from China said to be authentic ; one although not quite mature, 

 agrees in every particular, as far as it goes, with V. tenera; the other 

 is not quite fresh, diam. scarcely 2'2, and here also the umbilicus is 

 first a little narrower and more rapidly widens in the latter part ; 

 the lip is quite thin, though distinct, the coloration somewhat indis- 

 tinctly yellowish horn, the si:)ire somewhat more elevated, and the 

 last whorl descending vei-y slowly, yet the suture being below the 

 periphery at the aperture. This form is represented in Man. Conch., 

 PI. 33, fig. 53. 



From all this we may conclude that V. pulchelhda Hde. is not 

 specifically distinct from tenera Reinh., the latter name having pri- 

 ority. The somewhat diflTerent form noted above, and rather 

 closely corresponding in the two lots, which possibly or even prob- 

 ably, are from the same place, may represent a var. pidchelhda 

 Hde., if they agree with the original description, which I have not 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 269 



seen. V. tenera is, at all events, distributed over eastern China as 

 well as in Japan. 



9. V. patens Reinhard. 



//el. patens Reinhard, Sitzungbber. Nat. Fr. Berlin, 1883, p. 43. 

 //el. patens O. v. Moellendorfif, Jahrb. D. Mai. Ges., 1884, p. 315. 

 //el. pulchella MuUer and n. sp. O. v. Moellendorff, ibid. 1881, p. 36. 



" Shell small, flat, with scarcely projecting apex, with wide, per- 

 spective umbilicus, grayish white. Whorls 3?, somewhat depressed, 

 moderately increasing in width, separated by a deeply impressed 

 suture, and with distant membranous ribs ; the last scarcely descend- 

 ing toward the aperture. Aperture very oblique, transversely oval, 

 with everted but scarcely thickened peristome ; upper margin 

 almost straight, lower margin symmetrically curved, insertions at 

 the margins approximate. Diam. 2, alt. scarcely 1 mm. 



"The species recalls H. cosiata as to the ribs, but differs from it in 

 its smaller size, wider umbilicus, and more oblique aperture with 

 slightly thickened peristome. It has been found by Dr. O. v. Moel- 

 lendorff on the Powentschan, Prov. Chi Li, China, in company with 

 H. tenuilabris A. Br., a species which seems to be widely distributed 

 in northeastern Asia, while in our regions (Central Europe) it is 

 only found fossil in the pleistocene loess. This fact is interesting in 

 connection with the results of Nehring's investigations concerning 

 the vertebrate fauna of the loess." (Original descr., translated ; no 

 figure). 



Dr. O. V. Moellendorff (^. c, 1884) thinks V. patens may be iden- 

 tical with V. pulchellula Hde. (see tenera Reinh.). I have seen no 

 specimens. , 



10. V. gracilicosta Reinhard. 



V. gracilicosta Reinh,,^* Sitzungsber. Nat. Freunde, Berlin, 1883, p. 42. 



Shell flat, with little prominent apex, widely umbilicated, of 

 whitish-gray color. Whorls 3j, convex, separated by a deep 

 suture, with fine but distinct, rather crowded ribs; last whorl 

 slightly angular around the umbilicus, strongly expanding toward 

 the aperture, slightly descending to the same. Aperture moderately 

 oblique, transversely oval, with strongly everted and broadly white- 

 lipped peristome ; upper margin little, lower margin more curved, 

 almost obtusely angular. Margins at the insertions approximate 

 and connected by a callus. Diam. 2*5, min. 2*0, alt. about 1 mm. 



™ O. Reinhard, iiher die von den Herren Gebr. Krause auf ihrer Reise gesam- 

 melten Pupa-, Hyalina- und Vallonia-Arten. 




270 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Collected on the Little Missouri, by JM^M. Krause. (Orig. descr., 

 translated). 



I have seen no authentic examples of this species. But there are 

 four fresh specimens of a form from Logan Canyon, Utah, collected 

 by Mr. Henry Hemphill, in the collection of the Academy labelled 

 ^'H. lyulehella var. costata Miill.," certainly not costafa, but which I 

 take to be V. graeilicosta, as they rather conform to the description. 



The spire is quite low, but distinctly conic. The ribs of the shell 

 itself are rather regular, about 40 on the last whorl, without mem- 

 branous appendages. Such are not w^orn off, since there is no trace 

 of them to be seen at the suture or umbilical part. Nucleus with 

 indistinct microscopic revolving lines. The last whorl is slightly 

 flattened above and below the periphery, thus being somewhat 

 angular at the periphery and base, in its last i slightly but dis- 

 tinctly ascending before it descends in front, somewhat more at the 

 suture. Aperture of the form given in the above description, 

 appearing slightly triangular. .Diam. 2'6 mm. 



A corresponding lot of four specimens from the same place and 

 the same collector is in the National Museum Collection. 



Near the preceding we have to range some fossil forms. In 

 the southern part of New Mexico, near Eddy, in a diy " Salt Lake," 

 some fine quartz sand with numerous minute fossil, or semi-fossil 

 shells, was collected by a party of the Texas Geological Survey. 

 The shells were picked out and kindly forwarded to me for exami- 

 nation by Mr. J, A. Singley. There were about fourteen land and 

 fresh water species, extremely fragile and bleached. Among them 

 was a number of Villoma which I then named costata var., but 

 they diflTer from that species in the more elevated spire,, the last 

 whorl markedly ascending, and the surface rather densely and 

 somewhat irregularly striate, quite unlike costata. Whether they 

 had membranous ribs when fresh, it is, of course, impossible to tell, 

 but, from analogy with recent forms, it is probable that they had. 



Two specimens, much like those from Eddy, were found among a 

 number of minute land and fresh water shells in the same con- 

 dition and with the same white quartz sand seen by Mr. W. F. 

 Cummins, of the Texas Geological Survey, in Osborn's Julia Can- 

 yon, N. "\V. Texas, near the top of the bluff. 



Both these finds are said to be quaternary, and it is believed 

 that the species are not represented in the recent fauna of that part 

 of the country. As a whole they suggest parts of a more northern 

 fauna. A list of them will be published in another article. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 271 



Further studies of more material of all these forms will be neces- 

 sary.* 



11. V. perspectiva, n. sp.,-* PI. VIII, fig. F. Man. Conch., PI. .33, fig. 39-46. 



Shell small, with very wide perspective umbilicus, more widening 

 for the last •} whorl, flat, or a little elevated above, with rather dense, 

 somewhat regularly set, moderately strong membranous ribs (about 

 35 on the last whorl) and with finer strise between them ; nucleus 

 without revolving lines ; pale horn to colorless, thin, translucent ; 

 whorls 3;}, gradually increasing, a little flattened above and below 

 the periphery, with a deep suture, the last rounded, comparatively 

 narrow, little expanding toward the aperture, rather rapidly 

 descending in toto ; aperture very inclined and oblique, almost tan- 

 gential, transversely (short) ovoid or oblong; peristome continuous, 

 shortly but not abruptly everted except near the suture, without (or 

 with a very thin) lip. 



Diam. maj. 2-0, min. 1"7, alt. 0'7 mm. 



Soft parts as usual in the genus; the liver, as seen through the 

 shell, appears grayish brown. Jaw slightly arcuate, with rather 

 fine irregular ribs. Radula with 77 transverse rows of 25 teeth : 

 R : 3-f 2 : 7. There are 3 perfect laterals and the fourth resembles 

 them closely, yet forms the transition from laterals to marginals, 

 and even the fifth might rather range with the former, as its plate is 

 distinct though small ; its ectodont is two-pointed, and the pecul- 

 iarly-formed mesodout rather long. The sixth is a marginal, with 

 2 distal cusps ; the other marginals are wide and short, with 4 to 6 

 slender cusps, the mesodont being moderately longer than the 

 others. The last 1 or 2 are very small, and their cusps indistinct even 

 when highly magnified. 



This is a North American species, which I saw first from Knox- 

 ville, Tennessee, where it had been collected by Mrs. Judge 

 Andrews in damp moss on the cliflfs above the Holston River. 

 Later it was found in Jackson County, Alabama, by Mr. H. E. 

 Sargent, and, among the specimens sent, there were a few living, so 

 that I could observe the animal and examine at least the jaw and 

 radula. Doubtless our species will be found at more localities in 

 the Appalachian Mountains. In the jNIissouri River drift, from 

 Eastport, Iowa, mentioned under V. parnda, there w'ere four exam- 

 ples of this species, somewhat small, 1*8 and 1*9 mm. diam. 



*See Appendix. 



2'S. notice in "Nautilus," V, No. 4, p. 101. 




272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Those from Tennessee and Alabama show some slight variation. 

 The size is from 1*7-2"1 mm. gv. diam., 2*0 being the average. On 

 some specimens the aperture is not pear shaped as in most, but 

 rather broadly rounded at the left side, as shown in Man. Conch., 

 PI. 33, fig. 44. There is also some difi'erence in the more or less 

 strongly everted peristome. A few specimens from Alabama show 

 a thin lip, but from its appearance it seems to be caused by some 

 disease. 



V. perspediva can not be mistaken for any other species except 

 parviUa, which it resembles in size, coloration and the membranous 

 ribs. But it is sufficiently distinguished by the wider umbilicus, 

 the comparatively narrow last whorl, less expanding and descend- 

 ing in toto to the aperture, which is smaller and not circular; the 

 continuous peristome and the absence of a lip. It holds a singular 

 position also among the species with strongly descending last whorl 

 and transversely elongated aperture by the comparatively more dis- 

 tant and regularly standing membranous ribs, and its small size. 



12. V. cyclophorella Ancey, PI. VIII, f. E. Man. Conch., PL .33, f. .34-38, PI. 32, f. 29. 



" Resembles temdlahris A. Braun, in its rather slight peristome, 

 and costata in its sculpture. Umbilicus large (about 1 mm. diam). 

 Whorls about 4, the last depressed above. Costulations fine ; aper- 

 ture oblique, nearly round. Diam. 21, alt. 1 mm." This description 

 has been communicated by Mr. Theo. D. A. Cockerell, with the 

 note : " V. cyclojjhorella, collected at West Cliff, Colorado, has the 

 animal entirely translucent, white (except the dark eyes). The 

 liver, seen through the shell, is red-brown." 



As noted, this species has been collected over a wide range of the 

 Rocky Mountains, and is in collections under different names. Col- 

 orado : North Park, Ingersoll collection, received from Mr. J. H. 

 Thomson ; E, A. Barber, Aug., 1 874, in collection of the Academy 

 (as T". minuta Say), West Cliff, Mr. Cockerell ; South Park ; Utah : 

 American Fork Canyon, J. D. Putnam; Montana: Helena, Mr. 

 Henry Hemphill (in Acad. Coll.); Idaho ; Wyoming: FortBridger, 

 Dr. Jos. Leidy ; AVashington : Walla Walla, Mr. Hemphill ; 

 Nevada : Hamilton (in Nat. Mus. Coll.) ; New Mexico (or Arizona), 

 in Nat. Mus. Coll. 



The above description would be insufficient to characterize the 

 species. By the kindness of Mr. Theo. D. A. Cockerell, who sent 

 me some authentic specimens from Colorado, and Mr. J. A. Thom- 

 son, who presented me his examples, collected by Ingersoll, I was 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 273 



enabled to identify it, and now would add the following: Sliell 

 rather thin, pale or grayish-horn colored, or whitish translucent, 

 ribs on the shell small, crowded (about 60 on the last whorl), with 

 fine membranes, rather regular, often irregular (as in Man. Conch., 

 PI. 32, fig. 29), with fine strise between them ; nucleus with slight, 

 irregular, nearly obsolete revolving lines ; suture moderately deep ; 

 last whorl somewhat widening toward the aperture, in its last i dis- 

 tinctly ascending (Man. Conch., PI. 33, fig. 37) then rather rapidly 

 descending, somewhat more at the suture, so that the margins are 

 much approximate ; aperture transversely elongate ; superior mar- 

 gin markedly less curved than inferior ; peristome slightly everted, 

 except near the suture, thin, without a lip. Most specimens are of 

 a rather dull surface, but those from Walla Walla are shining, the 

 shell almost colorless, thin and transparent, and rather large. 



Greater diam. 2*7, lesser 2*2 alt. 1"2 mm. 



I have seen no living animals. The jaw and radula were exam- 

 ined in softened specimens. The former appears rather low, some- 

 what truncated at the ends, with rather stout, irregular rib-striae, 

 except near the side-ends, which are smooth. The radula (PI. VIII, 

 f. E) has 63 transverse rows of 25 teeth ; 5 laterals, the fifth though, 

 having a small plate; its ectodont is simple in most, slightly two- 

 pointed in a few teeth. The first marginal (sixth tooth) is some- 

 what difl^erent from the following : the plate is distinctly visible 

 behind the "reflection," the latter markedly tapering from the 

 proximal end ; the mesodont comparatively large, the others 2-3, 

 small. In the following marginals the cusps are comparatively 

 small, about 6, the mesodont little exceeding the others, and only in 

 the 2-3 first teeth ; the last ones are very short and with very small 

 cusps. 



There is some variation in the configuration of the shell as has 

 already been pointed out. Some specimens from Hamilton, Nevada, 

 in the Nat. Mus. Coll., have a distinct though not strong lip. 



13. V. tenuilabris, A. Braun. 



//e/. teimilahris. Vers. D. Naturf., Main, 1843, p. 14.3. 



Hel. tenuilabns .Sandberger, Conch, d. Vorw. p. 891, T. 36, f. 14. 



Hil. tenuilabris Woterlund, Fauna, I, p. 15. 



" Shell with umbilicus open, and rapidly widening at the aper- 

 ture, depressed convex, with prominent, almost papilliform apex, 

 with fine and acute, crowded ribs, grayish horn-colored ; whorls 4- 

 4i, somewhat convex, the last somewhat expanding in front, grad- 




274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



ually deep descending ; suture rather impressed ; aperture very 

 oblique,little crescentic, transversely oval, rounded with the margins 

 much approximate; peristome widened [everted], thinly lipped, 

 yellowish horn-colored, inferior margin reflexed. Size 3 : 2f-2 

 mm. 



(Siberia : Jarzowa, Selo at 60° 10', and AVerschininski 68° 55' ; 

 fossil in southern Germany.)" Translated from Westerlund, Fauna. 



I have seen no recent Asiatic specimens. From Europe there is 

 a fossil from Kroellwitz, near Halle on the Saale, Saxony. Ten speci- 

 mens before me, obtained from two different parties under the name 

 of Hel. temdlahris A. Br., are nearly alike except for slight 

 differences in size, represented in Man. Conch., PI. 33, fig. 30-33. 

 This is a shell probably well-known among European conchologists, 

 but there are some characters which do not agree with the above des- 

 cription. They are in good condition, appearing remarkably fresh 

 for fossils, more or less translucent, and in most the epiconch is pre- 

 served. The surface is rather finely striate, but not acutely ribbed. 

 There is also no trace of a difference in coloration of the apertural 

 part and the rest of the shell ; this would, of course, be of little 

 importance if the shells are weathered and opaque, but in the state 

 of preservation they present, it is significant. The whole shell is 

 equally colorless, and must have been glassy transparent when fresh. 

 There is also no trace of a lip. The size is somewhat larger : greater 

 diam. 3-1-3-3, lesser 2-4-2-6, alt. I'T mm. 



From all this it is evident that the Kroellwitz shell can not be 

 identical with temdlahris as described. It would be hasty to 

 take it for a different species before authentic specimens can be 

 compared. We may eventually propose for the fossil the varietal 

 name saxoniana. The last whorl is very distinctly ascending before 

 it descends to the aperture, as shown in Man. Conch., PI. 33, fig. 33 ; 

 this is also seen from above (fig. 30). Very probably T''. tenuilabris 

 presents the same character; apex almost papilliform, which 

 becomes apparent at once if we compare fig. 32. But this, as has 

 been pointed out, appears to be a characteristic, not of a single spe- 

 cies, but of a whole group. From its size, color and the ribbed 

 surface we may conclude that V. temdlahris is related to F. cyclo- 

 phorella. 



It has been noted above that I received another form under the 

 name of T". tenuilahris, from Germany. This is of quite a different 

 type (see under V. declivis p. 257). 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 275 



14. V. mionecton Boettger. 



Hel. adda West. var. mionecton Bttg , Zool. Jahrb. IV, 1SS9, T. 27, f. 11. 

 Hcl. (cmdlabris var. mionecton (Bit";.,), West. Fauna, I. Sup], p. 120. 

 Vallonia mionecton Bttg, cit. in Nachr. Bl. D. Mai. Ges. 1892, p. 125 (O. 

 Rosen.) 



"Smaller, more depressed, almost regularly, very finely rib- 

 striate ; whorls only 3, the last, as also the upper margin of the 

 peristome, somewhat angular above; size 21-2} : \\ mm. (Trans- 

 Caucasia, on th6 summit of the Agh-dagh in the Kopet-dagh, at 9- 

 10,000 feet). Dr. Boettger ranges this form under ray adela, but 

 the excellent figures show the last whorl much widened in front, 

 deep descending above, margins much approximate, almost con- 

 nected, etc." From Westerlund, Fauna, /. c. translated. 



In Baron O. Rosen's article, evidently influenced by Dr. O. 

 Boettger, V. viionecton is treated as a species, and published. 



v. mionecton var. schamhalensis Rosen. 



Differs from the type in the shell being smooth [jjo/ito] not rib- 

 striate. Schamhala, Prov. Chorassan, Persia. 



I have seen no specimens of either the type or variety. 



15. v. ladaoensis Nevill. 



Scient. Res. of the Sec. Yarkand Miss., Moll., p. 4 — Mts. Centralasiat. Moll., 

 1882, p. 3, T. 3, f. 3.— Westerlund, Fauna, I, p. 15. 



" Shell widely umbilicated, depressed, with little elevated spire, 

 densely and finely ribbed (ribs sometimes almost obsolete), grayish 

 white ; whorls Si, somewhat convex, the last rounded, descending 

 in front ; aperture very oblique, transversely pear-shaped, peristome 

 everted (" reflexed "), rather thin, with margins much approximate, 

 inferior margin more curved. Size 8j : 1} m. (Central Asia, near 

 Iskardo in Tibet)." Descr. from Westerlund, I. c. translated. 



V. ladacensis var. (?) asiatica Nevill. 



/Je/. losfata var. asiatica Nevill, /. c. ' 



Vail, ladacensis var. asiatica Nevill, Reinhard, iiber die von den Herren Gebr. 

 Krause aufihrer Reise gesammelten Pupa-, Hyalina-und Vallonia- Arten; Sitzungs- 

 ber. der Ges. Naturf. Freunde, Berlin, 1883, p. 42. 



Keinhard says {I. c.) that on Pyramid Island, Alaska, a Vallonia 

 has been collected by MM. Krause which is identical with asiatica, 

 except for its somewhat smaller size. He states that the latter 

 comes nearer ladacensis than costata, under which it has been 

 ranged by the author. Mr. Pilsbry believes that the Alaska form 

 is not the same as the Asiatic. 




276 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



I have seen no specimens of either the type or the variety, which 

 also has been regarded as a species, and am unable to judge about 

 them.- 



KEY TO SPECIES OF YALLONIA. 



It is necessarily difficult to give a synopsis of the species of Val- 

 lonia based on the shell alone. The characters are quite interwoven 

 among the groups and species, and several attempts to found natural 

 groups upon one, or even a few prominent features proved to be 

 failures. Yet there are such natural groups, though not well- 

 defined, and the following table may serve to characterize them 

 and the subordinate groups, at the same time affording a means of 

 identifying specimens, definitely or approximately, without going 

 over all the descriptions. 



Group I (of pidchella). Aperture crescentic, forming | to | of 

 a circle (not transversely elongated), with ends of margin distant, 

 little or moderately inclined and oblique ; suture not markedly 

 descending to the aperture or not more so than the last whorl ; shell 

 of medium size; surface rarely or never ribbed ; nucleus, as a rule, 

 smooth (?).'^° 



A. Last whorl not, or scarcely descending 



1. Peristome with a strong white lip, 



a. Peristome decidedly everted ; shell and umbilicus rather 

 symmetrical ; surface finely striate pulchella. 



aa. Peristome scarcely everted ; shell and umbilicus elongate, 

 surface smooth or very finely striate ; spire small and low 



excentrica. 



2. Peristome without a lip, little everted ; whorls 4-4j diam. 2*5- 

 3 mm. adela. 



B. Last whorl gradually and steadily descending in toto, peristome 

 not everted ; lip thin or wanting 



1. Surface microscopically striate, appearing almost smooth ; lip 

 thin or wanting dedivis. 



2. Surface with fine membranous ribs, peristome straight and 

 thin, without a lip pollinensis. 



Group II (of costata). Aperture almost circular or transversely 

 elongate, with margins approximate ; peristome distinctly everted, 

 with a white lip; last whorl moderately or not descending in front, 

 suture more descending, surface (as a rule) with distinct ribs or rib- 

 strise. 



^^ In aiMa a.nd />o//inc'iisis the nucleub is unknown. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 277 



A. Aperture rather circular, surface with membranous ribs (rarely 

 smooth, with fine strite in place of ribs) 



1. Of medium size or small, pale or reddish horn colored. 



a. Of medium size (average 2'5 mm.) last whorl usually a little 

 descending in front costata. 



aa. Small (2 mm. or less), back of last whorl not descending. 



parvula. 



2. Rather large (2*7 mm.) whitish ; riblets membranous, very fine 

 and crowded albida. 



B. Aperture transversely elongate ; superior margin much less curved 

 than inferior. 



1, Rather small (2"3 mm.) and thin shelled, with fine membranous 

 ribs, light grayish, transparent ; lip moderate tenera. 



2. Rather stout (diam. 2*6 mm.), with ribs on the shell without 

 membranous appendages ; lip strong, white gracilicoda. 

 a. Last whorl not descending ; umbilicus very wide ; diam. 2 



mm.; otherwise like group III, surface with membranous 

 ribs patens. 



Group III (of cyclophorella). Aperture transversely elongate, 

 elliptic or pear-shaped, inferior margin more curved, but not angu- 

 lar; last whorl descending in toto after ascending previously ; peris- 

 tome moderately everted, Avithout a lip (as a rule). 



A. Small, diam. 2'0 mm. or less; hof^n colored; umbilicus very 

 wide, perspective, surface with membranous ribs, peristome con- 

 tinuous perspectiva. 



B. Larger, with very fine crowded ribs, or almost smooth ; peris- 

 tome not continuous. 



1. Diam. 2'4-2'5 mm.; whorls 3; very finely rib-striate 



ynionedon. 



2. Diam. 2-6-3-3 mm; whorls 3]-4. 



a, Diam. 2"6-2'8 ; surface with fine, somewhat irregular, 

 crowded membranous ribs ; color grayish-white to grayish- 

 horn (rarely with a thin white lip) cyclo])horeUa. 

 aa. diam. 3'0 or more ; surface finely ribbed 



b. spire rather elevated ; diam. 3 mm. tenuUabris. 



bb. spire little elevated ; diam. 3'5 mm. ladacensis. 



TABLE OF geographical DISTRIBUTION. 



1. V. piilchella Miill.: circumboreal (eastern Asia? Pacific 

 slope of North America?) Australia, Mauritius (introduced.?). 



2. V. excentrica Sterki : all Europe ; eastern North America. 




278 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



3. V. adela West. : Central Europe ; fossil in Sweden. 

 3a. T^. declivis Sterki : Central Europe. 



4. V. pollinensis Paul. : Italy. 



5. V. costata MiiW. : circumboreal ; Australia. 



6. V. alhula Sterki : Northern North America. 



7. V. jyccrvida Sterki : North America. 



8. V. tenera^einh.: China, Japan. 



9. V. patens ^einh.: China. 



10. V. gracillcosta Hemh.: Rocky Mountains. 



11. V. persjyediva Qterki: North America. 



12. V. cyelophorella Anc. : Western North America. 



13. T^. tenuilabris A. Br: Asia; fossil in Germany. 



14. V. mionedon Bttg. : Western Asia. 



15. T^. ladacensis Nev. : Central Asia; Alaska. 



APPENDIX. 



After this paper had been written, Mr. Wm. H. Dall kindly 

 forwarded me many additional specimens of Vallonia from the 

 National Museum. I would add the following notes upon them : — 



V. pulchella Miill was largely represented from INIadeira and 

 Bermuda. The specimens from the latter locality are of a somewhat 

 peculiar form, being composed of only three comparatively large 

 whorls, the umbilicus is first quite narrow, rapidly widening for the 

 last J whorl. 



V. excentrlea seems to be Avidely distributed in Great Britain, 

 being represented from diflerent places. 



V. costata: The specimens assigned to this species reported from 

 Iowa, Nebraska, etc., must be referred to the following, the dis- 

 tribution of which in the United States should be further studied. 



V. gracilicosta. There was among the National JNIuseum material 

 over a hundred specimens from drift on the Missouri River, 

 collected near Fort Berthold, Dak. They are all dead shells, yet 

 some of them are in good condition, of 2'5-2'8 mm. diam. They, 

 especially the smaller, somewhat resemble V. costata, while the 

 fresh examples of the two lots from Utah mentioned above are 

 decidedly different. As far as I am able to judge from the material 

 seen, the two species are distinct, constantly differing in a number 

 of points. In V. gracilicosta, also averaging larger, the whorls, 

 especially the last, are more depressed above, the aperture is more 

 inclined and oblique, much more curved below than above, and 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 279 



somewhat angular at the periphery ; the shells show distinct ribs 

 and the membranous "ribs" upon them are quite small and fine, 

 while in costata the ribs are quite small ; the membranes are as a 

 rule, coarse. In the former, the ribs are also more numerous, and 

 more oblique, especially as seen from above. The lip, in fresh 

 specimens, is pure white, never so in costata, and of a somewhat 

 different form. 



As said above, the specimens seen from the states west of the 

 Mississippi, must be referred to V. gracilicosta instead of to costata. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE VIII. 



(Plates 32 and 33 referred to throughout the text will be found in 

 Pilsbry's continuation of Tryon's Manual of Conchology (2), VIII. 



Fig. A-F Radula, enlarged about 900 diam. The first laterals and 

 last marginals are always represented, so that the last 

 gives the number in the half transverse row. 



Fig. A. Radula of V. pulchella; 3 is nearly like 4 in B. 



Fig. B. Radula of T'^ excentrica. 



Fig. C. Radula of Y. costata. 



Fig. D. Radula of T". alhula. 



Fig. E. Radula of T'. cycloiihorella. 



Fig. F. Radula of T'. perspectiva. 



Fig. G. Radula of V. pulchella, the central and first lateral in the 

 first (anterior) transverse rows, with cusps worn off. 



Fig. H. Jaw of V. pulchella as seen under moderate enlargement, 

 cutting-edge below, as in all figs: scale about 150 : 1. 



Fig. I. The same, another specimen, enlarged nearly 300 diam. ; 

 a b the posterior plate, extending backward into the tena- 

 culum membrane 1 1. 



Fig. K. The same, another specimen, as seen in profile. 



Fig. L. The same, median section (partially diagrammatic). 



Fig. M. Jaw of V. e.vcentrica. 



Fig. N. Jaw of V. costata. 



Fig. 0. Jaw of V. alhula, extended. 



Fig. P. Central tooth of the radula (of V. parvula), half profile 

 view. 



Fig. R. One-half jaw of V. parvula, seen obliquely from above. 




280 proceedings of the academy of [1898. 



June 6. 



Rev. Henry C. McCook, D. D., Vice-President, in the chair. 



Twenty-four persons present. 



A paper entitled "Xotes on the Physical Geography of Texas," 

 by Ralph S. Tarr, was presented for publication. 



The paper entitled "New and little known Paleozoic and Jurassic 

 Fishes," by Edw. D. Cope, was ordered to be printed in the Journal. 



June 13. 

 Rev. Henry C. McCook, D. D., Vice-President, in the chair. 



Thirty-eight persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 

 " New North American Myxomycetes," by Geo. A. Rex, M. D. 

 " The Phylogeny of the Docoglossa," by AV. H. Dall 



June 20. 

 Rev. Henry C. McCook, D. D., Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Twenty-six persons present. 



The death, May 29, 1893, of Prof. Carl Semper, a correspondent, 

 was announced. 



June 27. 

 Rev. Henry C. McCook, D. D., Vice-President, in the chair. 



Thirty-six persons present. 



The death on the 25th inst., of James J. Levick, M. D., a member, 

 was announced. 



A paper entitled " Contributions to the Life-Histories of Plants, 

 No. 9," by Thomas Meehan, was presented for publication. 



Note on the mechanism of the act of the expulsion of secretion from 

 the amd sac in Mephitis. — Dr. Harrison Allen invited attention 

 to the anatomy of the anal region in Mephitis. Jeffries Wyman 

 (Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. History, 1844) briefly recorded the muscular 

 nature of the act of propulsion of the secretion w'hich was assigned 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 281 



to a muscular coat of the sac itself. He mentions a " band " which 

 extends from the tuberosity of the ischium to the sac, but does 

 not state that it is muscular in character. He probably thought it 

 was not muscular since the term ' band ' is not used as one synony- 

 mous with fascicle. 



The point is one scarcely worth noting were it not for the fact that 

 Hudson in his work entitled " The Naturalist on the La Plata " 

 describes the act of expulsion of the fluid to be involuntary. It 

 would be possible for fluid to escape without control of the will, as 

 feces or urine might be voided involuntarily if the sac was endowed 

 with no musculature outside of its own walls. But it was held by 

 Dr. Allen as a conclusion drawn from his dissections that the semi- 

 tendinous muscle is an important factor in the act of expulsion, and 

 he believed it to be true that the demonstration proved, even if we 

 lacked evidence from the behavior of the animal at the time of 

 expelling the liquid, that the act is strictly voluntary. The semi- 

 tendinous muscle exhibits a constriction at its proximal third, from 

 which a muscular slip (as wide as the main muscle itself) arises. 

 The slip passes upward and backward to be inserted upon the sac ot 

 the gland. 



The following was ordered to be printed : — 



19 




282 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



DESCRIPTIONS OF TWO NEW SPECIES OF NORTH AMERICAN 

 BOMBYCIDAE. 



BY HERMAN STRECKER. 



Cossus Ore. 



$ Light grayish. Antennfe pectinated. Head and thorax 

 heavily clothed with coarse, dark brown and whitish scales ; abdo- 

 men with grayish hair, beneath somewhat paler. 



Primaries. Ground color light gray but more or less suffused with 

 brownish especially on the basal two-thirds. The whole wing is 

 striated, mottled might almost be the better term, with fine intersect- 

 ing lines of various thickness which connect and interlace producing 

 a curious and notable effect ; there is a sort of submarginal jagged 

 band (but scarcely deserving to be so-called) formed by the lines 

 there being heavier ; there is also conspicuous mottling interior to the 

 middle of the wing produced by the same cause. The mottling, for 

 it is more mottled than striated, is unlike that of any other species 

 I know of whether native or foreign and will readily and strikingly 

 distinguish this from all others. Secondaries gray, reticulated with 

 fine lines, but with little of the tendency to semitranspareney that is 

 shown in some other species. 



Expands 2] inches. 



The 9 is like the $ but broader winged and expanding 3 inches. 

 The antennae but very slightly pectinated. This is a true Cossus 

 nearer to the European ligniperda which it more resembles, except 

 in the style of mottling of the wings, than any species occurring in 

 this country. 



Hab. State of Washington ; captured by Prof. O. B. Johnson 

 from whom I received it. 



Hepialus Los. 



Head and body unicolorous pale smoky gray, tarsi pinkish. 



Primaries same color as head and body with four dark grayish- 

 brown somewhat oval almost connected spots extending from costa 

 at base obliquely to the inner margin about two-thirds the distance 

 from the base, a small silver spot or dot is the second of these from 

 the costa. On the inner margin another not so conspicuous spot, on 

 the costa two spots or marks, one at the middle and the other interior 

 to it, beyond the first of these, commencing at the costa, an irregular 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



band which extends inward half way between the costa and interior 

 margin. A large subapical patch only partially separated from the 

 broad exterior marginal baud by a broken irregular patch of the 

 paler gi'ound color, this marginal baud encloses a paler semi-band 

 on the inner half, and a row of pale lunate spots on the margin 

 which are largest at the anal angle and become smaller and more 

 indistinct the nearer they approach the apex. All the dark spots, 

 etc.. are margined with a lighter color. In the centre of the sub- 

 apical patch is a small rouud silver dot, on the marginal band inte- 

 rior to the latter two very small silver marks. 



Secondaries almost uniform smoky gray, darker toward apex near 

 which, touching outwardly on the costa, is a pale elongate mark. A 

 row of indistinct lunules at exterior margin. 



Expands nearly 4 inches. Taken near Bangor, Maine. 



This differs from other known North American species which I 

 here diagnose. 



Hepialus argenteomaculatus Harris, Cat. Ins. Mass., p. 72, 1864. 



A pale olivaceous species with darker bands, etc., inclining in part 

 to a golden tinge, occurring from Maine to Wisconsin, and in 

 Canada. 

 H. argentata Pack., Proc. Ent. Soc. Phil. Ill, p. .392, IS64. 



I know only by the description which leaves little doubt but that 

 it was founded on a dark example of the preceding. 

 H. quadriguttatus Grote, 1. c, p. 73, t. 1, f. 6, 1864. 



The large yellowish salmon colored species found in Maine and New 

 Hampshire. In Can. Ent., Vol. XXV, p. 124, 1893, it has been claimed 

 that this insect was never really described and that Quadrigut- 

 tatus is synonymical with argenteomaculatus. On this assumption it 

 was there described as argent, var. semiaiiratus n. v. but on looking 

 carefull}' at Grote's description it will be seen that it fits the salmon 

 colored species at least as well as the other and his figure undoubtedly 

 represents that one. His description says plainly "Posterior 

 wings entirely pale salmon color " etc. " Abdomen pale salmon 

 color"; etc. " Under surface of both wings tinged with salmon 

 color." Now none of this applies to argenteomaculatus which has 

 grayish or pale ochraceous brown posterior wings and abdomen, and 

 whose under surface is also ochraceous or brown, varying in depth 

 of color in different examples but entirely destitute of any indica- 

 tion of the fleshy red tint kiiowu as salmon-color — from this it seems 




284 PEOCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



easily to be seen that there are very insufficient if any grounds for 

 the sinking of Grote's name, or for making this, his species, a 

 var. of Harris', as any one will see by comparing a suite of the two 

 that they are very different in size and color and in markings, as 

 much as is the case with species of the same group in this interesting 

 family. I have received argenteomacidatus from Maine, Canada, New 

 York, Michigan, Illinois and Wisconsin. Quadrigtdtatus only from 

 White Mts. of Kew Hampshire and Maine. In the last named State 

 the two occur at same time and in same localities. 



H. purpurascens Pack,, Bost. Jour. Nat, Hist., p. 598, 1863. 



Unknown probably save from tbe type and description. I have 

 never seen the former, but from the description it must be a large 

 species (" expands 4'20 inches ") unique in appearance it being des- 

 cribed as " dark sable brown with irregular bands of silvery purple. 

 Head and body deep sable brown ", etc. It was " captured by 

 Mr, S. H. Scudder at the base of Mt. Washington " and is a 9 . 



H. thule Str&ck,, Lep. Rhop, Het, p. 105. t, XII, f. 6, 1S75, 



A large white species with but little of the usual ornamentation on 

 primaries and that little confined mostly to inner half of costal part. 

 The type was taken in a park in Montreal by the late Mr. F. B. 

 Caulfield of that city from whom I received it. Another was 

 taken later, I think near the same city, and a third one was captured 

 in Wisconsin. The remaining species of North American Hepialidse 

 of small size and, excepting auratns Grote, are inconspicuous insects 

 presenting little affinity in appearance to those here enumerated. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 285 



THE PHYLOGENY OF THE DOCOGLOSSA. 

 BY W. H, DALL. 



In his concluding fasciculi contributed to complete Troschel's 

 classical " Gebiss der Schnecken " Dr. Johannes Thiele dissents very 

 emphatically from some suggestions of mine in regard to the deriva- 

 tion of the true Limpets, made many years ago. At that time it 

 appeared to me that the Lepetidce might represent the stem, some- 

 what degenerated, from which the Doeoglossa were derived. While 

 I attach, even in the present state of our knowledge, comparatively 

 little importance to speculations of this kind, which can only be 

 placed on a firm footing by extended embryological researches, it 

 still seems to me that there is a solid basis for the hypothesis which 

 I then suggested. 



There can be little doubt that the early type of Gastropod gill was 

 situated much as in Fissurella on the "back of the neck" behind 

 the head and that it was constituted of a stem with lateral lamellae. 

 Originally paired and symmetrical, by circumstances incident to 

 growth and torsion one gill of the pair has in most cases become 

 aborted, though its " smelling organ " frequently remains, as in the 

 limpets. There is also no doubt whatever that the Protolimpet was 

 derived from a form having a spiral shell. I have shown that Pi-o- 

 pilidlum by its dentition is closely allied to Lepeta. Now Propilid- 

 ium is said to have two gills but certainly has at least one, of the 

 type of Acmcea. It retains a spiral nucleus through life, though it 

 is partly cut off by a small septum which is never completed. Other 

 Lejietidce also show a spiral nucleus when very young, but it is cut 

 off completely and lost later. These other, mostly deep or cold water 

 forms, have lost their gills and eyes by degeneracy and the principal 

 teeth of the radula show a tendency to become cemented together, 

 while in Propilidium they are more or less isolated. Now in the 

 Acmceidce and Patellidce the nucleus is limpet-shaped from the 

 beginning; the uncinal teeth (well developed in Lepeta) are 

 degenerate and often lost in the Acmteas but appear again in the 

 Patellas, not, however with the individuality and completely chitin- 

 ous nature which is found in the corresponding teeth of Lepetidce. 

 We find therefore in Lepetidw the greatest number of archaic char- 

 acters (somewhat masked by degeneration of other organs) which 




286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



remain in any of the tbree groups, and whether most ancient or not, 

 so far as these characters go the Lepetidce are nearest to the Proto- 

 limpet. 



In my work on the Blake Mollusks (II, p. 436) I said that Acmce- 

 idce, of all the groups of Docoglossa, is the most typical ; that is, 

 within the limits of that family are found assembled, sometimes in 

 one and the same animal, the greatest number of organs which taken 

 singly are characteristic of Docoglossa. This is strictly true, but Dr. 

 Thiele (Gebiss, p. 340, vol. II) has mistranslated me to the extent of 

 saying that I have regarded the Acmceidce as the most " primitive" 

 group, in opposition to my earlier views ; which is quite inaccurate. 

 I have in the Blake Gastropods (p. 436-7) shown why the Patellicke 

 may reasonably be regarded as derived from Acmceidce, the original 

 ctenidia having been wholly lost. The row of lamellae within the 

 mantle edge have taken up the branchial function and in some 

 species, as in Ancistomesus, become arborescent proliferations. The 

 branchial cordon is occasional in Acmceidce, I have seen it complete 

 in Scurria mesoleuca ; it is present but incomplete in the common 

 Lottia gigantea of California ; and even if Dr. Thiele was correct in 

 supposing that it was absent in Scurria scurra there would still be no 

 ground for his conclusion that its absence in the latter species indi- 

 cates a failure of the grounds upon which I united in one group, as 

 Proteobranchiata, the Acmandoe and Patellickr. 



But there is excellent reason for believing Dr. Thiele to have been 

 misled by an exceptionally contracted specimen of Scurria scurra 

 and to be entirely wrong in his conclusion that the species is without 

 a branchial cordon. The latter is figured and described by Orbigny 

 from living specimens (Am. Mer., p. 478, pi. 64, figs. 11-14). I 

 have seen sketches by Couthouy made from life fully confirming 

 Orbigny, and lastly I have seen, but do not now remember where, an 

 alcoholic specimen which showed them clearly. Dr. Thiele's spec- 

 imen only appeared "etwas wulstig," somewhat puffed up, in the 

 place where the cordon should be, but there can be no doubt that 

 this puffing up simply represented the alcoholically contracted 

 laraellpe of the cordon, rendered indistinct by improper preparation. 



Many of the minor details in which Dr. Thiele's observations 

 differ from mine may be reasonably explained by the variation which 

 is exhibited by individuals; and my chief criticism upon what is, in 

 the main, a praiseworthy and useful work is that Dr. Thiele has 

 failed to take account of this factor, which more extensive experience 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 287 



with the radula of a single species would have undoubtedly revealed 

 to him. The result has been, not only has he estimated too highly 

 the constancy of minor details of the radula in single species, but he 

 has made an excessive number of so-called " generic " distinctions, 

 the names of which in many cases will simply enlarge our catalogues 

 of synonyms. 



In conclusion I may point out that the relations of the radula in 

 Lepetella to that of Lepeta, etc., offer additional reasons for thinking 

 that the Lepetidce are of the limpets those most nearly allied to nor- 

 mal or more usual types of gastropods, and also that the similarity of 

 the shell of the silurian Tryblidium to that of some recent limpets 

 ( Olana, etc.) by no means authorizes us to conclude that the soft parts 

 of Tryblidium were also similar to those of recent Patellidce. Indeed, 

 when the almost incalculable length of time intervening between our 

 days and the Silurian is considered, together with the similarity of 

 recent limpet shells which are secreted by widely different animals, it 

 is almost inconceivable that the Silurian form should have any closely 

 allied recent representative. The rhythmical manner in which the 

 adductor scars of Tryblidium are arranged in pairs, clearh" indicates 

 a peculiar disposition of the organs which might, indeed, have 

 paralleled in some particulars the organization of some of the Chitons 

 of that ancient time. 



For the rest, many of the ancient limpets are represented by shells 

 which might well have belonged to Lepeta or Acmcea, yet of the 

 relations of which, as in the case of many recent limpets, we are not 

 permitted to arrive at any dogmatic opinion for want of the requisite 

 data, a deficiency which, in the case of the fossils, must remain for- 

 ever unsupplied. 




288 proceedings of the academy of [1893. 



July 4. 

 Kev. Henry C. McCook, D. D., Vice-Presideut, in the chair. 

 Five persons present. 



July' 11. 

 Rev. Henry C. McCook, D. D., Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Nineteen persons present. 



July 18. 

 George H. Horn, M. D., in the chair. 

 Ten persons present. 



July 25. 

 George H. Horn, M. D., in the chair. 

 Thirteen persons present. 

 Miss Maria Blanchard, Miss Harriet Blanchard and Miss Anna 

 Blauchard were elected members. 



Dr. O. Boettger of Frankfurt a. M., Germany, Dr. H. von 

 Ihering of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, and Charles Hedley of 

 Sydney, N. S. W., were elected Correspondents. 

 The following was ordered to be printed : — 




1893.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 289 



CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE LIFE HISTORIES OF PLANTS, NO. 9. 



BY THOMAS MEEHAK. 



POPULUS TEEMULOIDES. — A MONQXIOUS CASE. 



Noting on a young tree of Populus tremuloides on my grounds, 

 which I had supposed to be a male, that a few of the catkins were 

 still green when the most of them were faded, I was led to exam- 

 ine and found they were female. There were thirteen of these 

 female catkins, and one hundred and fifty-one males. Seven of the 

 pistillate aments had about one-third of the scales bearing stamens 

 only, and about two-thirds Avith pistils only. Two were solidly pis- 

 tillate with but a few stamen-bearing scales at the base. One had 

 staminate scales for about one-third of its length from the base, the 

 remaining two-thirds of the catkin being uniformly pistillate; while 

 one was almost wholly male, there being but three female scales 

 among the whole number. Two were purely pistillate, no trace of 

 a staminate scale could be observed. The tree was seven years old, 

 and growing freely, having made a growth of about three feet each 

 year, for three years past. Some of these bisexual aments will be 

 preserved in the herbarium of the Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia. Bisexual scales were sought for but did not appear 

 to exist. 



Changes of sexual characters in dioecious plants are not uncom- 

 mon, but have probably not been recorded before in connection 

 with Salicaceous plants. The author has a large number of species 

 of willow growing on his grounds. All these were subsequently 

 examined carefully, but no similar case of sexual change was found 

 among them. 



Extra-Axillary Branching in Mertensia maritima. 



Of this plant, as " Steenhammera maritima (R.')," Babington, 

 in his " Manual of the British Flora," remarks that in habit, " it is 

 sui-generis." I know of no attempt to explain the singularity. A 



^It may have been noted that in these biological papers, the name of the 

 author of the species is seldom quoted. This omission is intentional though con- 

 trary to modern custom. In a treatise on systematic botany, such quotations are 

 certainly in full place. But in public addresses or in everyday language, no one 

 would think for a moment of repeating an author's name every time a plant was 

 referred to, and there seems no reason why a scientific treatise when written in a 

 conversational way, should not follow conversaiional rules. 




290 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



study of the plant at Seal Harbor, Maine, on July 9th seemed to 

 make its peculiarity clear. 



It may first be noted that when a leaf starts from its parent stem 

 we may look for a bud in the axis. If a leaf be present without an 

 axillary bud, we conclude that there has been or ought to have 

 been one, and look for some reason for the seemingly abnormal con- 

 dition. 



As already noted by the author, the common peduncle opposite 

 to a leaf in Boraginaceous and other plants, means simply that the 

 arrested axis has been pushed aside by the strongly developed 

 growth of the axillary bud, which then assumes the leadership until 

 "history repeats itself,'' and it also is pushed aside to make way for 

 a new leader. But Mertenski maritima does not seem to follow this 

 rule, and seems wholly exceptional. Everything proceeds for 

 awhile in the usual way. The leaves are all alternate as a well- 

 behaved Boraginaceous plant should be. But when in the flower- 

 ing stage there are a pair of opposite leaves, and at the same node, 

 three branches — one bearing flowers, and the other two continuing 

 each an axial growth. How is it possible that three axial growths 

 should have been developed from only a pair of leaves ? 



When these leaves are carefully examined, however, the axillary 

 buds are found to be still there. They have not followed the Bor- 

 aginaceous habit of pushing at once into growth, and, assuming 

 leadership, pushing the parent shoot aside. The pair of leaves are 

 not exactly opposite, and the branch bearing the flowers seems to 

 occupy a space of its own on the stem, between the pair of leaves. 



DicoTOMOus Branching in Spergularia media. 



Noting that every flower was abundantly fertile, and suspecting 

 from this fact self-fertilization, investigation followed and it was 

 found that the pollen is shed just at the time of opening, thoroughly 

 covering the stigmas, and absolutely insuring self-fertilization. 



Comparing the inflorescence with some Boraginaceae nearby, 

 along the coast at Seal Harbor, an interesting lesson is taught as to 

 how the dichotomous arrangement is produced from the opposite 

 leaved, and the extra-axillary from the alternate leaved character, 

 respectively. In Spergularia media, when the arrestation of axial 

 growth occurs previous to the advent of the floral condition, the 

 next pair of axillary buds start at once into growth and we 

 thus have two actual centers of axillary growth, the arrested 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 291 



flower branch remaining in the dichotomous fork. In Boragina- 

 eece with its alternate leaved system, there is but a single bud to 

 push into growth and become the main axis, which it does, push- 

 ing the arrested flowering branch wholly to one side, and which, in 

 technical language becomes extra-axillary. 



Missing Virticel in Glaux maritima. 



Examining on July 14th at Seal Harbor some specimens of 

 Glaux maritima, commenting on the well known and remarkable 

 alternation of the stamens with the lobes of the calyx, a friend 

 remarked that this arrangement would necessitate the lobes of the 

 corolla being opposite the lobes of the calyx if the flowers had not 

 been apetalous, which would be an anomaly in floral structure. 

 But as the stamens in Primulacece are opposite the lobes of the 

 corolla, we might naturally look for the same phenomenon in Glaux 

 had the corolla been developed. Yet there is one point in this con- 

 nection worth noting. In Sainolus and some allied genera there are 

 imperfect anthers in between the lobes of the corolla, and the 

 opposite stamens are therefore easily accounted for when we under- 

 stand that a series between them and the corolla has been sup- 

 pressed. The position of the stamens alternate with the sepals in 

 Glaux, again proves the existence of two series, as the suppression 

 of both would bring the stamens just where they are between the lobes 

 of the calyx. Another point is that the ease with which the outer 

 series of stamens, united with the corolla in Primulacece generally, 

 has been suppressed, causes no surprise when we see the corolla 

 itself wholly suppi'essed in Glaux. 



The tendency to suppression of parts and general irregularity is 

 particularly striking in this genus. Though I examined many 

 flowers of this plant on the north Pacific coast, I did not note any 

 that were not 5-lobed and 5-stamened. Fully one-fourth of the 

 flowers at Seal Harbor were tetramerous. 



The irregularity of the leaves is well known — opposite until the 

 flowering stage is reached, when they become alternate and fre- 

 quently three-whorled. 



Every flower is fertile ; but all the flowers I could examine were 

 expanded, and aflbrded no opportunity to observe the condition of 

 affairs before opening. 



Morphology is much aided by a study of the acceleration and 

 arrestation of parts in erratic plants like these, and I regretted 




292 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



that my opportunities for further observations on this plant were 

 so limited. It affords a promising field for others more fortunate. 



The Relation between Rhythmic Growth and Variety 

 IN Citrus Fruits. 



The recognition that growth is rhythmic, and not one continuous 

 act, affords a ready explanation of many phenomena otherwise 

 inexplicable ; and this is well illustrated by a comparison of vari- 

 ous forms of fruit in the orange and other varieties of the citrus 

 tribe. 



Occasionally an orange may be found wholly formed inside of 

 another orange, and more frequently an orange will be found pro- 

 jecting from the apex of another — that is, but partially enclosed — 

 while in another which has been propagated as a distinct variety 

 and called the Navel orange, a very small attempt to form another 

 fruit at the apex is generally seen giving the navel or umbilical 

 appearance from which the variety derives its name. 



The morphological unity of the foliaceous and floral parts of a 

 plant being conceded, we conceive of the axis as being arrested in 

 its longitudinal development when a flower is being formed. In 

 most oranges we find the axis still extending a considerable distance 

 into the fruit, but varying very much in consistency in different 

 varieties. Sometimes it is quite woody, in others it is found cellu- 

 lar and so soft that it can be compressed between finger and thumb ; 

 while in some — notably in a variety known as the Tangerine — there is 

 rarely but a few lines of axis, usually no axis at all. 



The rhythmic waves of growth are not all of equal measure. 

 As in jumping a ditch, a boy may now rest exactly where he lands, 

 and now have to continue several paces before final rest, so does the 

 wave force in growth vary in intensity. In the process of the 

 metamorphosis of a branch with its various nodes into a flower and 

 finally a fruit, the expenditure of force in the arrestation of axial 

 growth and the development of the appendages to petals, stamens 

 and carpels is exactly meted to the results — now it is short of the 

 mark, and the axis starts under another rhythmic movement 

 the next time to be arrested for good and all. 



It is this succession of growth rhythms that produces the double 

 fruit oranges, but the phenomenon is not confined to the citrus 

 tribe. In the formation of cones in the coniferous family the 

 branch in its axial growth is usually w'holly suppressed ; but occa- 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 293 



sionally, especially in the Larch where the tree is young and in a 

 very vigorous condition, the growth-wave not being wholly 

 exhausted, will make another venture, and a weak shoot from the 

 apex of the cone results. In Rosacepe the same phenomena are by 

 no means uncommon. One rose blossom will push out from the 

 center of another, and a small branch bearing a miniature pear has 

 been known to spring from the crown of a pear of normal char- 

 acter beneath it. 



The main purpose of this paper is to note the remarkable origin 

 of the variety of orange known as the Tangerine, and this by rea- 

 son of a singular variation in the character of the force in the 

 rhythmic wave. In the primary wave, for some reason yet obscure, 

 it is remarkably weak, and sends the greater part of its effort into the 

 secondary one. What is usually the small orange within the larger 

 in the double orange, or the minute orange in the apex of the navel 

 variety, becomes the leading and only original fruit ! 



Once in a while nature furnishes the absolute proof of this mor- 

 phological conception. It is not rare to have specimens of Tanger- 

 ines in which are from five to ten abortive carpels at the base 

 of the fruit. In these cases the well defined axis, usual in the com- 

 mon orange, runs through the lower abortion, to be suddenly and 

 finally suppressed when the upper cycle of organs takes its turn to 

 become fruit. The Tangerine has always a flattish or oblate form. 

 The utter suppression of the axis at the point of its formation nat- 

 urally favoring a lateral growth. 



The key herewith furnished, will doubtless disclose to us the 

 secret of the many forms which the citrus tribe often assumes. The 

 length of the lemon as compared with the more globular orange is 

 evidently due to a more rapid advance of the growth wave. This 

 naturally leads to a more elongated form. This hypothesis is sup- 

 ported by examining a half section of the lemon taken longitudi- 

 nally. The axis is much more apparent and more woody than in the 

 orange. It will be found to have come to a rest at the apex of the 

 oval, starting again as from a regular node on the branch, to form 

 a new and weak axis through the nipple which forms such a distin- 

 guishing mark of the lemon as compared with the orange. The 

 nipple is possibly the result of the secondary rhythmic growth, 

 which in the Tangerine orange was able to advance to a perfect 

 fruit. From the limited opportunities of examining large quanti- 

 ties of lemons from seedling trees, I have not been able to demon- 




294 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



strate this as an actual fact as in the case of the orange, but I feel 

 sure some one may meet with an abnormal specimen which will 

 prove the point. 



The varying intensity of rhythmic waves of growth may come 

 to be regarded as a leading factor in the development of form. 

 These waves certainly have to do with the varying sexual characters 

 of trees, as I have shown in other papers. The fact brings us near to 

 a certain knowledge of the origin of form, though we have still to 

 learn what causes the variations in the intensity of these waves. 

 Even in these different forms of citrus fruits the varying forces 

 affect fertility. In the case of the Tangerine orange, in which the 

 secondary rhythm has been accelerated to such an extent as to 

 cause abortion in the whole of the lower carpellary system, the 

 seeds necessarily are not formed. In the case of the Navel, where 

 the secondary wave has only drawn part of the force from the lower, 

 it usually results in so much weakening of the latter's power that 

 few or no seeds result. The Navel is usually a seedless fruit. 



Morphology of the Stipule in Comarum palustre. 



I have claimed that when axial growth is arrested to form the 

 inflorescence, a suppression of leaf-blade, and a corresponding 

 development of stipule or dilated petiole usually occurs in the mor- 

 phological conception of a flower. In other words, instead of pet- 

 als and sepals being metamorphosed leaves, they are more critically 

 metamorphosed stipules. 



This is well illustrated in Comarum palustre. Examining a 

 branch we find only a stipule at the lowermost node. Ultimately a 

 leaf with two pairs of leaflets and one odd one. Then growth 

 becomes suppressed as the flowering stage approaches. The next 

 node has the leaf trifoliate, the next with only a single terminal 

 leaflet, the next with the stipule only. It is seen that all the next 

 nodes have stipules only and the sepals are but stipules. I have 

 before noted that Eosacea^. afford the best illustration of the fact 

 that petals are but enlarged and modified stipules, and not trans- 

 formed " leaves" as generally understood. 



Fertilization of Malva rotundifolia. 



Prof. Herman Mueller, in his work on cross-fertilization of 

 flowers, indicates that Maha rotundifolia invariably fertilizes itself 

 in case insects should not visit the flower in its earliest stages. 

 Unless, as I think may be the case, flowers behave differently in 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 295 



one stage of growth, or at one season, from another, I must con- 

 clude that it is fertilized before expansion, and that insects in no 

 way assist the operation. 



Early in October I noticed a plant, five feet in diameter, that 

 had evidently been blooming for months previously. It had many 

 hundreds of capsules, and there were no indications that a single 

 flower had failed to be fertile. With my own proposition before me 

 that perfect fertility indicates close fertilization, I was led to place 

 the plant under close observation many times a day for a week. 



During all this time I did not notice a single insect visitor. 

 Watching the plant a few times by night, no nocturnal visitors were 

 seen. At seasons more pregnant with insect life the plant would no 

 doubt be visited, for no flower is slighted in case of necessity by 

 honey or pollen gatherers. There were none at this time, but the 

 seeding Avas still going on, and continued till the first severe frost in 

 December. It can be surely stated as a matter of fact, that there 

 were no insect visitors during the last half of the season, and yet 

 the plant was abundantly and unfailingly fertile. 



An interesting result of my close observation was the discovery 

 of three great periods of rest and of growth-resumption during anthe- 

 sis. In the early morning of one day is seen the folded pink corolla 

 in the position of a small cone peeping through the green calyx. 

 Commencing watch at this stage, growth progresses till about noon, 

 when there is a rest till the next morning ; again there would be the 

 same period of advance to rest, and the third day again an advance, 

 followed by the withering of the floral organs. 



Returning to the first period, the unopened bud, dissected at 8 

 A. M., showed no indications of pollen having been discharged. 

 By 10 A. M., the flowers were still tightly closed, but the anther 

 sacs had become ruptured, and the pretty purple styles, nestling in 

 the center of the mass of stamens, were completely covered by pol- 

 len. By 11 A. M,, the corolla had so far untwisted that a slight 

 glance of the stamens and styles could be had in some flowers. By 

 12, noon, the corolla had taken on a narrow campanulate form, as 

 wide at the bottom as at the top. By 1 P. M., it had again closed, 

 so that the flower was expanded but about an hour only during the 

 whole i^eriod of its existence. If it were desirable, therefore, for 

 any insect to aid it in fertilization it would have but an hour at 

 noon in which to work ; but as we have already seen, the pollen had 

 reached the stigmas a short time before. 




296 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



From this time until near noon the next day, everything seems 

 absolutely at rest; but at 11 A. M., the corolla again expands so as 

 to be widely campanulate, and the pistils are found advancing 

 beyond the line of the anther cells, carrying along with them the 

 comparatively large pollen grains that had been deposited the day 

 before. By 1 P. M., the corolla has again closed, drawing up and 

 closely pressing the pistils and the anther cells together. It is at 

 this period of the observations that the most beautiful phenomenon 

 of the whole may be observed. Along the inner face of the style 

 from apex to base is a single line of minute hairs. The pollen 

 grains attach themselves to these hairs and are thus arranged in a 

 single line like bright pearls along a curved silken thread. Dr. 

 Ida A. Keller, who has kindly repeated some of the observations I 

 here record, finds indications of pollen tubes entering the pistils 

 through the papillse or hairs. 



On the third day, toward noon, though the petals remain closed, 

 the pistils will be found withering, and the carpels enlarging, thus 

 indicating that fertilization has been accomplished. 



In the Proceedings of the Academy, 1889, page 55, in a paper 

 entitled " On Secund Inflorescence," I have shown that in a number 

 of flowers with a convolute aestivation, the spiral line in closing is 

 directly the reverse of that followed in the opening. A surprising 

 fact was noted in connection with this Malva that in closing, the 

 twist might be either from left to right or right to left — both lines 

 existing on the same plant. All attempts to form an hypothesis 

 accounting for this remarkable behavior failed. 



One fact strongly developed by these observations is that fertili- 

 zation may be accomplished before the pistils have completed their 

 gi'owth, thus confirming the observation of Dr. Ida A. Keller in her 

 paper on Monarda fistulosa in the Proceedings of the Academy, 

 1892, p. 452. 



The Peduncle in Streptopus amplexifolius. 



The point I have strongly presented in connection with " extra- 

 axillary " branches, that these are but arrested leaders which have 

 been supplanted in leadership by the strong growth of the axillary 

 bud, is remarkably well illustrated in StrejJtopus amplexifolins. Dr. 

 Asa Gray says of it " it has small (extra) axillary flowers, either 

 solitary or in pairs, on slender thread-like peduncles, which are 

 abruptly bent or contorted near the middle." And further, " the 

 peduncles, as in the next, are opposite the leaves, rather than truly 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 297 



axillary, and are bent round the clasping base beneath them." 

 From what I have already recorded there will be no difficulty in 

 perceiving that the " peduncle " is but a depauperate and displaced 

 central axis, but the great disparity in the strength of the displaced 

 and succeeding axes is very remarkable. The peduncle itself goes 

 through the same metamorphosis. It is an arrested branch, and at 

 the point where it is " abruptly bent or contorted near the middle," 

 there would, under more vigorous vegetative conditions, be a node. 



With a good lens we can see a minute bract, with an axillary 

 bud, which latter seems now to terminate the straight or lower por- 

 tion of the peduncle, and which bud in its develoi)ment seems to 

 have pressed or bent over the original axis, which has become a 

 pedicel bearing the flower. 



The peduncle, by a peculiar twist, turns around the stem, and 

 gives the appearance of being axillary instead of truly "extra" 

 axillary. This arises from the plant being an incipient twiner ;. 

 some of its allies having actually achieved this habit. The midrib 

 of the leaf curves more than 30° from a sti-aight line, showing the 

 strong convolutionary character of the plant. 



During my short stay at Seal Harbor I had no opportunity to 

 observe as closely as desirable ; but it seems certain that the ovarium,, 

 though tlyee-celled, has its walls made up of six original leaves. 

 The series of three outer leaves have become so thoroughly blended 

 with the three inner ones, that no one would suspect their existence, 

 except by watching the young fruit through the several stages of 

 ripening. The three outer ones color before the three inner ones. 

 At this stage their outlines are distinctly seen. At this time, also, 

 there is a slight tendency to a hexagonal form, which has been 

 noted in Trillium, though the hexapetal character seems not to have 

 been suggested. 



The Anthesis of Brunella vulgaris. 



Little new could be expected from a plant so common as Brunella 

 vulgaris, but noting at Seal Harbor, on July 18th, that every flower 

 was fertile, close fertilization was suspected. 



Pulling off" at night-fall all expanded flowers, it was found the 

 next morning that all the flowers to expand that day were open 

 before 8 A. M. There is a total rest after this till a little before 8 

 A. M., the next morning. Opening a flower before its normal time 

 it was found that the anther cells were already ruptured, and one — 



20 




298 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



the lower lobe of tlie forked style — pressed into it, and covered with 

 pollen. A number of flowers were opened, all exhibiting the same 

 phenomenon. The branched filament, as is well known, bears an 

 anther cell on one fork only. At the time above noted the arms 

 diverge in nearly opposite directions ; but eventually the barren 

 one becomes nearly erect, which has led some authors to describe 

 the stamen bearing the anther on a lateral horn-like process. 



The opening of the flowers is the work of the lower lip alone. 

 In the unexpanded bud it extends inward and under the upper lip, 

 and falls over, seeming to clasp the anthers. When the opening 

 time arrives this lower lip is withdrawn till it presents a right angle 

 with the upper lip, and finally falling back till it reaches the tube 

 of the corolla. Soon after mid-day the style branches close — an 

 indication that fertilization has been accomplished. The style, how- 

 ever, continues to lengthen. The corolla only continues about 24 

 hours, as early the day following they drop out of the calyx tube. 



A small species of bumble-bee, rather numerous, paid constant 

 visits to the flowers. Hypothetically one might reasonably regard 

 the flower as arranged for cross-fertilization by insect agency. The 

 branches of the style seem favorably situated to receive pollen from 

 the back of au insect visitor. As a matter of fact, however, none 

 of these visiting bees were seen touching the style branches in any 

 way, though I watched them closely for a long time. As the lobes 

 close at noon, there could be no benefit if they did touch them after 

 that. Insect aid could be given between 8 A. M., and noon. If in 

 any other part of the world they are of service they must be larger 

 than these bees were ; but as the flower certainly fertilizes before 

 opening at this season, in this place, it is not conceivable that the 

 hypothetical arrangements are theoretically correct. 



The head of flowers is a contracted spike, and is composed of 

 numerous verticils in which there are three flowers to each axil. 

 The central flower of these three is always the first to open, and 

 hence the anthesis is centripital. Though this would thus seem to be 

 the general plan, strange to say, the first flower to bloom on a head 

 may be from any part — either near the apex or near the base. 

 They appear from any part without any regard to order or system. 

 No explanation of this disorderly blooming seemed satisfactory. 



It has been a point with the author of these " Contributions " that 

 a leaf does not originate at the node from which it seems to spring, 

 but at some indefinite point on the axis below. In Brunella the 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 299 



edges of the leaves are ciliate. The stems are bifariously hirsute. 

 No explanation of this seems to the author reasonable but that 

 this results from the meeting of the cilia on the edges of the narrow 

 bases of the foliar organs, and which, at the node above, expanded 

 into a laminal condition — a leaf blade. 



Branching of Euphorbia hypericifolia and E. maculata. 



There are some peculiarities in the branching of these two species 

 of Euphorbia difficult of explanation in each case, but very clear 

 when studied in comparison with each other. As a general princi- 

 ple in plants we look for an axillary bud at the base of every leaf, 

 or we can usually conceive some reason why the axillary bud has 

 not been developed. Taking a branch of Euphorbia hypericifolia 

 Ave find the leaves opposite, but one somewhat stronger than the 

 other. The main stems are somewhat flexuose. On the one side of 

 the main shoot an axillary bud has developed from the base of the 

 leaf into a weak lateral branch, but there seems to be no trace of 

 an axillary bud at the base of the leaf opposite. We ask, what has 

 become of the bud which should have been at the base of that leaf? 



In E. maculata the branches are not flexuose. A straight stem 

 proceeds from the main branch, having many pairs of leaves at the 

 nodes. At the base of one of the leaves there is an axillary bud, 

 no bud at the base of the leaf opposite, which seems very closely 

 attached to the straight central axis or main stem. 



Returning to E. hypericifolia we find, toward the end of llie sea- 

 son's branch, a very weak peduncle between the forks of the 

 branches, having at the apex a head of flowers. We now see that 

 this pedicel was the original main stem, and that what we have 

 before taken for main stems were the products of axillary buds in 

 cases where the main axes were wholly suppressed. With this total 

 suppression came the effort on the part of one of the axillary 

 branches to supply the loss, and this is the one which has given the 

 impression that the subtending leaf had no axillary bud. There 

 was a bud, and that bud pushed so strongly as to become a substi- 

 tute for the suppressed central stem. The weaker bud, axillary to 

 the weaker leaf, either continues as a bud or pushes into a weaker 

 axillary growth. It is, however, of sufficient strength to compete 

 somewhat with the opposite stem growth, which cannot, therefore, 

 become perfectly straight, and the result is, as we see, a necessarily 

 flexuose habit. 




300 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Now reverting to E. maculata we find a much greater disparity 

 in the size of the opposite leaves, and necessarily in the size of the 

 strength of the axillary bud. The large leaf, which seems to have 

 DO axillary bud has really had one so strong in proportion to the 

 leaf opposite that it has pushed it wholly aside, has succeeded 

 in forming a perfectly straight stem. The straight stem in Euphor- 

 bia maculata, is really made up, therefore, of an axillary branch 

 which at each node has wholly taken the place of the main axis 

 which has become totally suppressed at each point. 



As, however, the vegetative growth becomes more under the con- 

 trol of the reproductive force, the vigor of the side branches which 

 proceed from the axillary buds along the main stem is checked ; and 

 with this the axial growth develops sufficiently to form a peduncle 

 and flower-head as already noted, and these central axes bearing 

 the flowers get stronger and stronger, just in proportion to the 

 development of reproductive agencies. 



We are taught by these illustrations the great lesson that the 

 power of an axillary bud to draw to itself nutrition at the expense 

 of the main axis and opposite axillary bud is the chief cause of the 

 varying characteristics of the branches. In the same plant it 

 causes a variation from a merely flexuose stem in the lower portion 

 to an almost perfectly forked condition finally — while it equally 

 accounts for a wholly different character of straight main stems in 

 an allied species. 



The exact manner in which an axillary bud can achieve such a 

 power of nutrition as to entirely obliterate and supplant the main 

 axis, and how again that main axis can still again overthrow its 

 lateral competitor and advance sufficiently to become a flower-bear- 

 ing peduncle is yet a grave question which cannot be answered. 

 But a consideration of all the facts brings out the safe conclusion 

 that the achievement of greater power in some buds to advance 

 over others by drawing to themselves nutrition at their expense 

 is a powerful factor in the origin of form. 



As every flower head produces seed, it is safe to assume 

 on my theory that the flowers self-j)ollinate. An examination 

 shows that this is the case. Long before the involucre unfolds the 

 staminate flowers have scattered their pollen over the pistils of the 

 female flower, thoroughly dusting them. The glands are gener- 

 ously nectariferous, larger and more productive of fluid in E. mac- 

 ulata than in E. liypericijolia. All effort to form a conception of 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 301 



the function of this honeyed secretion has utterly failed. At no 

 time have I ever seen a solitary insect visit these flowers. The 

 beauty of the involucre can only be seen by a strong lens. While 

 the nectariferous glands are larger in E. maculata, E. hypericifolia 

 has the larger and the prettier involucre. The observations were 

 made during September and October in Germantown. 



Dimorphic Forms of Lythrum Salicaria. 



An extended notice of the several forms of flower in Lythrum 

 Salicaria occurs in Mr. Darwin's "Forms of Flowers," pp. 137-248. 



My observations and deductions vary somewhat from those of 

 this eminent naturalist. I have noticed in my own general investiga- 

 tions that the behavior of plants is not always uniform at all times 

 and seasons. It is best to say that my investigations extended over 

 the four days of July 30, 31, and August 1, 2. The first three days 

 examination refers to a plant in my own garden — the last day to wild 

 plants half a mile away from my garden plant. 



The plant at this date had been in bloom for probably a month, 

 but the upper portion of the central spike, and the upper portions 

 of the lateral branchlets, were still growing and blooming freely. 

 The first observation was that the lower half of the central spike 

 was barren and the upper portion was seeding, but indifferently. 

 The lateral branchlets had every flower fertile. I set myself to 

 discover the reason for this difference. I found the flowers to be all 

 of what Mr. Darwin called his long-styled kind. Mr. Darwin 

 found the long-styled kind fertile though growing by itself. The 

 point is confirmed in this case, and yet there remained to be disclosed 

 why so many of the earlier flowers were infertile. In a three days' 

 close watching of this plant I found no insect visitors except one 

 Lepidopter. 



This seemed fond of the flowers, and numerous individuals of 

 the species were in constant attendance. I could not satisfy myself, 

 however, that the stigma was ever touched by it, and I suspected 

 some arrangement in the bud for self-fertilization. The style jDUshes 

 through the bud before the corollas expand and the glutinous 

 stigma is in receptive condition. On opening an uuexpanded bud from 

 which a style had thus protruded, it was found that none of the anther 

 cells had become ruptured. Neither Mr. Darwin nor anyone appears 

 to have opened an uuexpanded bud. The disposition of the style in 

 this condition is one of much interest. The ujiper portion represents 




302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



two coils of a spiral, and the whole pistil resembles in miniature a 

 ramrod when in use cleaning a gun. As soon as the stigma emerges 

 from the closed corolla, the coil straightens out in a very short time. 



The flower seems to have taken a rest at this stage in all its 

 departments. At 9 A. M., the next day, an unopened bud of the 

 same age as the former, had still not ruptured the pollen sacs. It 

 was the same at 10, 11, and again at 12, noon. The unbroken 

 anthers on the short stamens, were do.uble the size of these on the 

 longer stamens, in this respect differing from the observations of 

 Mr. Darwin. At 2 P. M., the anther cells of the lower stamens 

 were polliniferous : up to 6.30 P. M. the upper anther cells were 

 entire. At 8 A. M., of Aug. 1, the upper series of anthers had 

 still closed cells. At 12 noon, of this day, five unexpanded flowers 

 with long exserted styles were examined. In three axes the anthers 

 of the short stamens had shriveled without ejecting pollen — in one, 

 two were pollen-bearing, while four had shriveled — in the remaining 

 one, the whole six Avere abundantly polliniferous. 



The mass of wild plants is not extensive, but it furnished a good 

 bunch of specimens with long-styled flowers, and another bunch 

 with styles exserted only half the length of the calyx tube. None 

 with the very short styles figured by Mr. Darwin were growing in 

 this mass. It occurred to me to note the relative fertility of the 

 long and medium styled plants. Of the shorter styled, one branch- 

 let had seed vessels from 55 axils, with from 4-6 seed vessels in each 

 axil, and four others, 45, 48, 45 and 66, respectively. Of the 

 longer styled 57, 35, 45 and 44. 



So far as comparative fertility is concerned there is no material 

 difference between the two classes. 



It is clear to my mind that the flowers in these two classes do 

 not furnish each one its own pollen, nor do they receive much aid 

 from diurnal insects. Possibly nocturnal ones may assist, but if so, 

 no moth hair is Aasible on the stigmas, as there should be. As the 

 styles remain without withering for some days, showing that they 

 have not received pollen, the great probability is that the pollen is 

 in some way scattered from the upper flowers on the stigmas which 

 continue in a vital condition long enough to profit by it. Strong 

 vegetative vigor prevents seeding in the lower parts of the stronger 

 branches, even though the flowers were fertilized. 




1893.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 303 



Structure of Florets in Bidens bipinnata. 



Watching closely, on August 28, the anthesis of Bidens bipin- 

 nata, precisely the same phenomena were observed as is recorded of 

 HeUopsis Icevis. The style pushes up the staminal tube, starting at 

 night-fall. During the next day the pollen is pressed through the 

 divisions of the incurved staminal appendages, the style branches 

 protrude the following nightfall, the staminal tube retires the next' 

 day, followed the following day by the retreating style. 



In the arrangement of the floral parts there seems more definite- 

 ness than in many Compositse. Normally there are five outer 

 " involucral bracts " with foliaceous scales, — and these spread, some 

 time before the rest of the flowers open. But sometimes only three 

 of this verticil spread, in which case the other two remain erect 

 and are not distinguishable from the inner series of involucral 

 scales. Cutting away these five carefully we find no sign of an 

 axillary bud at the base of these bracts. Then we have another series 

 of five (seven in appearance, where the two lower bracts have become 

 " scales "), at the base of these five we find axillary buds. By 

 examining a number of heads, it is soon seen that these axillaiy 

 buds develop to florets. The buds develop equally in the axis of 

 each scale, when they rest, apparently for about a day, and growth 

 is resumed, when, strange to say, one leads off" in rapidity of 

 growth, outstripping the rest. Occasionally another will nearly equal 

 it, but two at least exhibit a very puny growth. These form the 

 ligulate rays, and in consequence of the irregularity noticed, there 

 are often only two fully formed ray florets, the others remaining 

 beneath the outer series of scales in an independent state. Inside 

 of this series, another series of five scales appear, the axillary buds 

 of which develop to fully formed disc florets. The next series of 

 five, however, seldom all perfect, — usually only two. 



Taking the theoretical structure of the flower to be on the plan 

 of five, we look for indications of this numeral in the ovarium. I 

 have, however, never found traces of five awns. Four are usually 

 present; but one or two so weak that unless searched for, two only 

 might be supposed present. The weakest is at the base of the scale 

 and the next weakest opposite. The two stronger are in the lateral 

 positions fronting the scales, and give eventually the bidentate char- 

 acter to the akene. At times there are only three teeth. We may 

 probably assume, in the theoretical conception of the floret, that 

 five '' involucral scales " primarily formed the calyx which becom- 




804 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



ing adnate with the ovarium formed the akene, but that one of 

 these became wholly absorbed before the final growth of the struc- 

 ture. The scales are the dilated bases of leaves, and the awns abor- 

 tive petioles or laminre. When but two awns remain, it is simply 

 the result of the total or partial suppression of three of the original 

 members of the five-leaved verticil. 



Rhythmic Grow^th in Flowers of Heliopsis l.evis. 



It must be well known to observers that the column of stamens 

 in many Compositee is drawn up far beyond the mouth of the floret 

 by the advancing pistil, and that subsequently it descends, and is 

 included in the floret. I believe I am the only one who has called 

 particular attention to this behavior in Compositre, though others 

 before me have noted a shrinking tendency in the filaments of 

 some Chicoracese, which has been attributed to an irritable habit. 

 Noting in a large mass of Heliopsis Icevis growing near my 

 house in German town that the elevation and depression of the 

 staminal column occurred at stated hours during the day, I started 

 on the 1 6th of August to devote observations several times a day 

 for a week to an examination of the behavior of the flowers. 



The first observation was that of the hundreds of flower-heads 

 that had flowei'ed during the summer season, not a floret could be 

 found infertile. This with me is indicative of self-fertilization. 

 But I believe it is conceded by all biologists who have given atten- 

 tion to this large order of plants, Compositse, comprising a tenth 

 part of the vegetable kingdom, that the florets are mostly self-fertil- 

 izers. Where there is a tendency to dioecism, and where there are 

 ray florets pistilliferous only, these — the very small minority — must, 

 of course, have florets requiring aid in pollination from other 

 flowers. The most that has been claimed for Composita3 is 

 that they are i' adapted to cross-fertilization ;" but even this state- 

 ment is derived from a theoretical conception of the plant's behav- 

 ior, for every practical test made by excluding insects has found 

 the florets just as fertile as if insects had been allowed free access to 

 them. It was, however, well worth while to keep this topic in view 

 while making my notes. The date of the observations is given, 

 as I have a suspicion that the phases of growth are not iden- 

 tical in different seasons or localities, though the uniformity goes on 

 with tolerable regularity. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 305 



The lobes of the corolla expand soon after daylight, resting at 

 once when open. But the style continues to lengthen. The appen- 

 dages to the stamens, similar in form to the lobes of the corolla, 

 bend over, and completely cover the apex of the style, forming a 

 cap like the apex of the finger of a glove. Pressing against this 

 cap the whole column is carried upward by the style growth. At 

 length the filaments' will stretch no more — the style still advances 

 — the pollen is brushed upward by the plumose stigmas, and at 

 length the appendages of the anthers are forced apart, and through 

 the crevices the pollen is thrust. Pollen gathering insects have a 

 rich field throughout the day, collecting the material thus forced to 

 the top of the staminal tube. By sunset the stigmas appear, cov- 

 ered by pollen ; and it is interesting to note, by examination of a 

 floret at this stage, how nearly clean the pollen has been brushed 

 out by the upward movement of the style. At sunset the pollen- 

 covered style commences to expand, and, curving over, seems to aid 

 in pressing back the column of stamens to the interior of the floret. 

 It was clear to my mind that the withdrawal of the staminal column 

 was not wholly due to elasticity of the filaments or it would go down 

 rapidly on the egress of the style which had raised it. But to make 

 the matter more certain, I slit the column, so that it might be entirely 

 free of any help from the style, but this did not add to the descent. 

 The filaments are as long as the tube Avhen the latter has attained 

 its greatest elevation ; but when examined in the morning after the 

 above observation, when wholly withdrawn into the tube of the 

 floret, they had drawn down to but one-fourth the length. The 

 lowering is due, not to irritability nor to elasticity, but the 

 shrinkage common to all maturing structures. 



Pollen grains were of course more numerous on the dorsal side of 

 the style branches, but there was abundance for all fertilizing pur- 

 poses on the stigmatic surfi:ices. At any rate, as the expansion com- 

 mences at sunset and continues throughout the night, any fertil- 

 ization which insects might aid would be due to nocturnal insects 

 and not honey bees or others which liave hitherto received the credit, 

 siniply because they were pollen gatherers from the unopened 

 florets. 



The morning following the expansion of the style branches, the 

 style itself follows the stamens, and by nightfall of the second day 

 the style has wholly withdrawn into the corolla. During this day 

 the flower is visited by bees and other insects for nectar, but the 




306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADE3IY OF [1893. 



shriveling of the style shows that fertilization had been accom- 

 plished during the night, and that the furnishing of the honeyed 

 sweets to the insect visitors was a purely gratuitous act, for which 

 the plant seemingly receives no compensation. 



The style is bulbous at the base. The style on withering disar- 

 ticulates at the apex of the bulb which remains as part of the seed 

 vessel. Morphologically the bulb may represent an arrested node 

 of growth, and it would not be surprising in some monstrous 

 forms to find appendages develop from it or closely related gen- 

 era, with some form of structure in which some organs developed 

 from a position such as the bulb occupies. 



The strongly adhesive power of the gelatiuous pollen is indicated 

 by the difficulty the style branches have in separating. The lower 

 portion spreads while inside the staminal tube ; but the apex still 

 remains in contact, so that after the style branches have become 

 quite clear of the tube, the branches, still together at the apex, form 

 a diamond-shaped termination to the style. If a lance separates 

 the mass of pollen, and thus liberates the apices, the style branches 

 fly back with considerable force. 



The style branches, after being drawn down into the corolla tube, 

 were still of the same proportionate length with the undivided por- 

 tion of the style, as when fully expanded : again showing that the 

 withdrawal was not due to any irritating or contracting power at 

 the base, but to a uniform shriveling in all its parts. These 

 advances of the different parts of flowers and rests while others 

 advance, are extremely interesting. It is now tAventy-three years since 

 I recorded similar behavior in the flowers of the compass plant, Sil- 

 phium laciniatum,^ and I regret that neither I nor others have fol- 

 lowed far in the path of observation there marked out. 



Floccose Leaves of Antennaria pi-antaginifolia. 



In the midst of a large quantity of Antennaria plantaginifolia in 

 Mount Desert Island, ]SIe., while numbers had the leaves green on 

 the upper surface, many plants were so densely floccose that no 

 green could be seen. The deprivation of the light was complete, and 

 I could form no conception as to how the green could be equally 

 dense beneath this thick growth of wood, as in the leaves exposed. 

 The text-books say " leaves silky-woolly when young, at length green 

 above." But the woolly plants seem woolly to the last, while the 



' Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences, 1870, p. 117- 




1893.] NATURAL SCIEKCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 307 



green-surfaced leaves seem on wholly different plants. The latter 

 has undulate, and occasionally crenate serrate, leaves ; and the leaves 

 are minutely dotted in places where hair should have grown. 



Endurance of Portulaca oleracea. 



In early autumn light white frosts occur, the tenderer plants 

 being injured in patches. Blackened leaves occur at intervals, 

 and considerable areas will have escaped, though of the same 

 species as those injured. This erratic character of an early light 

 frost is usually referred to atmospheric currents, the atmosphere 

 being a trifle higher or lower according as injury or escape from 

 injury may result. This is probably the case, though no absolute 

 tests by self registering thermometers have been made to my knowl- 

 edge. 



After one of these early frosts, the past October, I noted that a 

 large area covered with Portulaca oleracea, the common Purslane, 

 had a large number blackened by frost, while possibly an equal 

 number were unharmed. I was about passing over the fact under 

 the explanation already noted, when I observed that in many 

 instances healthy plants and plants blackened by frost would be 

 found together, their branches interlacing. In every case of the 

 kind examined, not a single leaf would be injured in the one case, 

 while in the other case the whole plant would be destroyed. The 

 destruction in these cases could not have been by any variation in 

 the intensity of the cold wave, but must have been from a less 

 power of resistance in the plant itself. 



The facts detailed furnish valuable lessons and suggestions. May 

 not the varying effects of a first " white frost " be as often from 

 varying powers of resistance as from varying intensities of the cold 

 wave ? 



Again it is frequent to have increased hardiness, as well as many 

 other characteristics, referred to the effects of environment. As the 

 plants here, and their ancestors for many generations, must have 

 been under like conditions, the unequal results can scarcely be 

 attributed to environment, but to the elasticity of character pos- 

 sessed by the whole organized world. In Portulaca oleracea we may 

 safely say some ])lants are hardier than others; yet over the whole 

 northern world where it is found, the plants are yet totally destroyed 

 by a comparatively light frost. Ages of existence under severe 

 climatic conditions have not rendered it, on the whole, hardier than 




308 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



when it first ventured on its hyperborean march, — for the great 

 home of the family is undoubtedly sub-tropical. The seeds of this 

 and other plants with a similar home, are frost-proof. They will 

 live in the ground, under any degree of frost. Hence sub-tropical 

 plants that can perfect their seeds before frost arrives, can travel 

 very far northward. It is to this power and not to any change of 

 original character by environment that the northward march of 

 these plants has been due. 



Early Fertilization of Scutellaria galericulata. 



Wishing to study the teleology of the crest or pouch on the calyx 

 lobe of Scutellaria, a large number of specimens of S. galericulata 

 in various stages of growth were collected at Seal Harbor, Me., on 

 July 13. No additional light could be thrown on the purpose of 

 this curious process, but some facts not generally known in relation 

 to the behavior of the flower during anthesis were noted as being 

 worth recording. 



Of all authors at the command of the writer, Bromfield^ is the 

 only one that notes in this species that " the stamens as well as the 

 style included, and lodged with it in the oblong inflated convexity 

 or crown of the upper lip." I had noticed that every flower was 

 fertile, and from this inferred self-fertilization. The style is never 

 longer than the stamens, and the anthers and upper portion of the 

 style are bound together in their " lodging." The anthers burst 

 their sacs simultaneously with the expansion of the flower, and 

 cover the whole upper portion of the style with pollen. Portions of 

 the corolla fold so tightly over the upper portions of stamens and 

 style that no insect can reach them. Even when an attempt is 

 made to press open this portion of the corolla with a light twig, the 

 expansion is unwillingly performed. 



A remarkable circumstance is that the flower falls soon after full 

 expansion, carrying the style with it, thus showing that full fertili- 

 zation of the ovarium had already taken place. It is probable that 

 the pollen grains are active much earlier in the unopened flower, 

 than seemed to be the case from my few hours of observation. 



Fertilization of Tri folium pratense. 



At my own residence, Philadelphia, I have never been able to 

 notice humble-bees entering Red Clover by the mouth of the corolla, 



^ Flora Vectensis, p. 383. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 309 



—all that I have seen visiting the flowers perforate the tube. It was 

 interesting to note at Seal Harbor, that the species comparatively 

 abundant on July 13, always entered by the mouth. I could find 

 no flowers with the corolla tube perforated. It was interesting fur- 

 ther to note that though there were cases of light colored flowers, 

 the prevailing tint was of a much brighter rose than clover fields 

 further south present. 




310 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



August 1. 

 Rev. Henry C. McCook, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Eight persons present. 



A paper under the following title was presented for publication : — 

 " Certain Sand Mounds of the St. John's River, Florida. Part I," 

 by Clarence B. Moore. 



August 8. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 

 Eleven persons present. 



August 15. 

 Mr. UsELMA C. Smith in the chair. 

 Twenty-two persons present. 



The Publication Committee reported in favor of publishing the 

 paper by Clarence B. Moore entitled " Certain Sand Mounds of the 

 St. John's River, Florida, Part I," as the first paper of Volume X 

 of the Journal of the Academy. 



Remarks on a New Species of Cyprcea. — Mr. John Ford, in pre- 

 senting the types of a new species of Cyprcea remarked that his 

 conclusions regarding their distinctive specific character were based 

 upon the careful study of a large number of specimens of various 

 sizes and stages of growth, all of which could be readily separated 

 from any other species belonging to the genus. 



In the first description, published by him in The Nautilus, Feb., 

 1893, the shells were defined as a variety of C. cruenta Gmel., the 

 suggestion being made, however, that most students would have 

 given them specific standing. For this reason this change has since 

 been made, and any further reference to their previous varietal 

 standing is deemed unnecessary. It may be said, however, that 

 the shell appears to have been figured by Kiener^ as a variety of 

 C. varlolaria ham. (C. cruenta Gmel.) and possibly by Sowerby,^ 

 and Melvill,'* the two latter authors apparently differing in opinion 

 as to its relative varietal standing, the former referring it to 



* Iconographie Co(iuilles Vivantes, page 57, pi. 27, fig. 2. 

 ^ Thesaurus Conchyliorum. Plate 23, fig. 190. 



3 1st Vol. 4th series of Memoirs and Proc. of the Manchester, (Engd.) Lit. 

 and Phil. Society, 1887-8. 




1893.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



311 



C. caurica Linn. Melvill, if one may judge hy his published state- 

 ment, appearing somewhat doubtful as to whether it was the off- 

 spring of C. cruenta, of C caurica, or of both species. 



No description of the shell other than that published by the 

 speaker, was given until July, 1893, when a summary of the speaker's 

 observations over Mr. ^lelvill's signature appeared in the Quarterly 

 (English) Journal of Conchology. 



The full description of the species (published in The Nautilus, 

 August, 1892,) is as follows: — 



Cypr^f.a Greegori Ford, n. sp. 



Shell depressed, orbicular oval in form, callus on the sides and 

 ends remarkably thickened. That on the sides light salmon in color, 

 with irregular purple-brown spots, having a blotchy appearance. 

 Dorsal surface similar to that of cruenta, but lacking the whitish 

 spots typically present in that species. Base semi-translucent, spot- 

 less, dark buffer salmon colored, darkest in the interstices. Teeth 

 on outer lip very strong, long and whitish ; on inner lip finer, with 

 exception of the anterior fold and one or two adjacent teeth, the first 

 of these latter being very prominent and notably transverse. Space 

 between the anterior fold and the following tooth wide and bright 

 red; posterior teeth of inner lip prolonged outward upon the base. 

 Dimensions of average specimen : length H, breadth i inch. 



That C. Greegori is more nearly related to C. cruenta than to 

 any other species, Mr. Ford had no doubt. Nevertheless, the fact 

 remains that the former possesses several characters altogether 

 distinct from those belonging to the latter. 



C Greegori is for instance, more translucent, less variable, more 

 rugged, much smaller and rounder in form, different in general 

 color, and in the peculiar variations of the teeth ; also in the 

 remarkable thickness and brilliancy of the callus with which it is 

 rimmed. 



With exception of one poor specimen, the shell was unknown to 

 the late Mr. Tryon, and for the same reason perhaps, it was not 

 noticed by ]Mr. Roberts in his catalogue of the species. 




312 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



The speaker had good reasons for believing that Mr. Tryon had 

 at one time almost decided to name and describe this one poor 

 specimen as a new species, but finally concluded that the material 

 at hand was insufficient for the purpose. 



Had he seen the brilliant suite of specimens now in the Academy, 

 it is not likely that he would have hesitated a moment to follow 

 his first intention. The shells are doubtless quite rare in collections, 

 both in the United States and Europe, those known here, in fact, 

 having chiefly come in one lot of mixed species of Cyprcea, from 

 Southern India and Ceylon. The latter region, judging from all 

 available evidence, may be considered the habitat of the species. 



It may be safely said that among all the smaller species of Cyprcea 

 none are more brilliant or more distinctly specific than G. Greegori 

 Ford. It is not strange therefore that this new species has already 

 been endorsed by a number of our most eminent conchologists. 



August 22. 

 Mr. Lewis Woolman in the chair. 

 Eleven persons present. 



August 29. 

 Mr. Lewis Woolman in the chair. 

 Thirteen persons present. 



A paper entitled " Change with Age in the Kadula of Land- 

 Mollusca," by V. Sterki, was presented for publication. 



The following was ordered to be printed : — 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 313 



NOTES ON THE PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY OF TEXAS. 

 By Ralph S. Tarr. 



Preface. 



This paper is based in part upon personal observation, in part 

 upon the published results of others.' Free use has been made of 

 the results of the several geologists who have studied the Texas 

 region, and in most cases direct reference has been made to the 

 sources of information. I am particularly indebted to the publica- 

 tions of Prof. R. T. Hill for many geological facts and interpretations, 

 chiefly in the Cretaceous regions where this author has done so much 

 valuable work. With few exceptions, however, the work done by 

 others has been geological rather than physiographic, and con- 

 sequently I have been in many cases forced to rely upon my own 

 observations alone. Since these were made in sections only, it has 

 not been possible in all cases to make the results as definite as 

 could be desired. My observations were made in 1889 and 1890, 

 the time occupied in field work being almost eight months, the 

 larger part of which was spent in the Central Denuded Area. 

 Aside from this and short excursions and railroad journeys, I also 

 made a wagon journey across the State of Texas from north of 

 Austin to the Guadalupe Mountains in the Trans-Pecos region, and 

 spent several weeks in and about these mountains. 



The results embodied herein must therefore be understood to be 

 the results of reconnoissauce, — preliminary exploration of a great 

 and interesting field. Were it possible that in the future I should 

 again have the opportunity of studying the region 1 would delay 

 the publication of this still longer; but this seems to be entirely 

 out of the question, and I believe that I am justified in placing the 

 results of my study on record to serve as a possible basis for future 

 work. 



Part I. — General Description. 

 1. — General Geography.^ 



(a) Topography. — The State of Texas consists, in the portion 

 which lies east of the Pecos river, of a series of plains, and west of 



1 The appended bibliography is a paitial li.'-t of works consulted. 



-I shall follow in general the classification offered by Prof. R. T. Hill, (Am. 

 Geol., V, 1890, pp. 0-29,) since this is tlie only classification offered, and is both 

 natural and accurate. 



21 




314 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



that river of a great plateau broken by mountain ranges, southern 

 spurs of the Rocky mountains. The plain east of the Pecos is 

 broken in only one ])lace, where the Palteozoic rocks are exposed 

 by the removal of the Cretaceous covering, and this has been called 

 bv Professor Hill, the Central Denuded Area. 



On the Gulf coast are the Quaternary beds, forming the Coastal 

 Prairies, a great, level tract of land chiefly swampy and but 

 slightly elevated above the Gulf. A forested region of Tertiary 

 sands and clays, carved into gently undulating topography is 

 interposed between the Coastal Prairies and the great Cretaceous 

 plain. The Cretaceous plain, commencing at an elevation, in the 

 vicinity of Austin, of not far from four hundred feet, though vary- 

 ing in different parts, forms one of the greatest geographical units of 

 Texas. It is a treeless prairie, with a few exceptions, and occupies 

 nearly one fourth of the state, rising gradually away from the coast 

 and reaching an elevation of two thousand feet and more. 



Partly enclosed in this Prairie is the Central Denuded Area, a 

 region of hilly, sparsely forested Carboniferous and older rocks, 

 which to the west merge into the Red Beds of Permian age. These 

 beds on the east have something of the topographic diversity of the 

 older rocks, but to the west change gradually in topographic form 

 and merge, geographically, almost imperceptibly into the lake or 

 inland sea beds of the Staked Plains, the Llano Estacado. These 

 plains, treeless and arid, form a true plateau with an elevation of 

 from 3,000 to 4,500 feet. The Pecos river flows along the base of 

 the Llano Estacado plateau which ends abruptly in a steep west 

 facing escarpment. To the west there is another plateau, broken by 

 mountain ranges, the Trans-Pecos Mountain and Basin region of 

 Hill. 



There are, therefore, six great topographic divisions in Texas: — 

 1st, the Coastal Prairies; 2nd, the Rolling Forested Tertiary Area; 

 3rd, the Grand Prairie ; 4th, the Central Denuded Area ; 5th, the 

 Llano Estacado ; 6th, the Trans-Pecos Mountain and Basin Region. 

 To this might be added many minor divisions dependent upon minor 

 topographical or geographical features. East of the Pecos the coun- 

 try is one of plateaus, plains, and prairies, forested only in one of its 

 parts (with one or two exceptions to be hereafter noted). The Cen- 

 tral Denuded Area alone is hilly and in no place are there mount- 

 ains. Buttes, chiefly of Cretaceous strata, form the only striking 

 elevations and these are dignified by the name of mountains by the 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 315 



settlers, in the absence of more striking elevations. West of the Pe- 

 cos the country is truly moiintainous. 



(6) Drainage. — The drainage naturally fells into two classes, the 

 western, including the Rio Grande and Rio Pecos which receive 

 their water supply from the mountains of New Mexico, and whose 

 Texas tributaries are withered channels favored with water only at 

 rare intervals; and secondly, those of the east, including the Color- 

 ado and Brazos, whose headwaters are withered channels in the Llano 

 Estacado and the Permian plain, and whose lower tributaries, flow- 

 ing in a humid or sub-humid climate, are the source of constant sup- 

 ply. 



2. — General Climatic CoNDnioNs. 



Texas is humid in the east, excessively so near the Gulf Coast. 

 The climate in this region, for instance near Galveston, is semi- 

 tropical. Proceeding inland, with increasing elevation comes more 

 temperate conditions. Snow falls, and frost occurs in the greater 

 part of the State, this being due to the cold north winds, " the 

 northers " which are not uncommon during the winter. Even as 

 near the coast as Austin the decrease in rainfall is noticeable, and 

 it is necessary to travel inland from here but a hundred miles or so 

 to reach a subhumid belt. The town of Abilene lies in this sub- 

 humid region, and to the west of this the climate becomes rapidly 

 more arid until truly arid conditions are met with, and with this 

 change there is a change in the character of vegetation. The Trans- 

 Pecos region is arid, so is the Llano Estacado and the western 

 Permian. More than a third of the State is arid or subhumid. 



3. — General Geologic and Geographic Development. 



(a) Pre- Carboniferous Land. — This statement is necessarily 

 generalized and, with the present imperfect state of our knowledge 

 of the geology of large parts of Texas, it may in some details be 

 incomplete. I shall attempt nothing more than seems warranted 

 by the facts at present at hand ; but these are sufficient for our 

 present purpose which is to trace the general development of the 

 Texas region. 



The oldest part of Texas is the Central Denuded Area, and this 

 has had a very complicated history. There is a Pre-Cambrian area, 

 referred by Mr. Walcott to lower Cambrian' and later to Algonkian* 



3 Am. J. Sci., XXVIII, 1884, pp. 431-33. 



* Bull. U. S. Geol. Survey, No. 30, 1886, pp. .=)7-64. 




316 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



aae and which Dr. Comstock^ considers true Archeaa. The extent 

 of this area is at present limited and there is no means of determin- 

 ing its former boundaries. The strata are highly metamorphosed, 

 in part by intrusions of Plutonic rocks. About this core are Cambrian 

 and Silurian strata, according to Dr. Comstock folded and faulted in 

 an extremely complicated manner. These older rocks obtained most 

 of their complication and metamorphism before the beginning of 

 the Carboniferous period, for the strata of the latter age rest with 

 marked unconformity on the northern slopes of the Silurian hills. 



What was the limit of this Pre-Carboniferous land we have no 

 exact means of determining, but that the present exposure by no 

 means expresses the original extent of outcrop seems certain from 

 the vast quantities of material in the Carboniferous and later strata. 

 Moreover the conglomeratic and sandy nature of the lower Carbon- 

 iferous deposits, along their eastern margin, indicates very strongly 

 that beneath the Cretaceous not far distant from this, the older 

 land exists. I believe it more than possible that this buried land 

 extended to the areas of Indian Territory and Arkansas, thus con- 

 necting them Avith the central core of Texas. 



Be this as it may, there was, in one part at least, a land area in 

 immediate Pre-Carboniferous time. This land was mountainous in 

 type, so far as structure is concerned, and had practically its 

 present degree of metamorphism.* Whether the land was topo- 

 graphically mountainous or not I cannot say. It certainly was not 

 so in the immediate neighborhood of the Carboniferous, for the 

 valleys and hills which were buried beneath the Carboniferous strata 

 were low and well rounded, being mature in type, much more mature 

 than the present topography of the same district, and quite closely 

 like that of the less hilly parts of New England. For this reason 

 I assume that all the land in the neighborhood had undergone long 

 continued denudation and was mature in geographic form. It was 

 a mountainous area worn to its roots in Pre-Carboniferous time. 



(6) Carboniferous Modification of the older Pakeozoic Land. — The 

 next event in the history is the oncoming of the Carboniferous de- 

 pression and period of sedimentation, a period introduced apparently 

 in Sub-Carboniferous times and continuing with slight interruption 

 to the close of the Permian. The evidence of a Sub-Carboniferous 



' 1st Ann. Rept., Texas Geol. Survey, 1889, pp. 255-82. 



8 This fact is proved hy the exisience of maible and flint pebbles in ihe 

 Carboniferous, with the same stiucture that tlie mateiials at preterit have in the 

 neighboring Silurian. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 317 



bed consists, so far as worked out, in an unconformity of marked 

 extent between a series of limestone and an overlying series of sand- 

 stone and limestones, an unconformity in which more tlian 4,500 feet 

 of upper Carboniferous beds are involved. ' These lower beds and 

 the upper Carboniferous beds, filling, at the shore line, the bays of 

 the older land, extended far to the westward and were represented in 

 west Texas, in the Trans-Pecos region, by the deeper water strata 

 which form the present Guadalupe iNIountains. At first the deposits 

 were those of an open sea but in the upper beds different conditions 

 are indicated. 



That part of the Carboniferous which lies immediately beneath 

 the Permian, and which I have called the Coleman division of the 

 Texas Carboniferous indicates mediterranean conditions, a fore- 

 shadowing of the oncoming of the Permian inland sea. The older 

 land was skirted by a coastal strip formed by the recent Carbonifer- 

 ous strata now elevated above sea level. There was a gathering in of 

 shore lines, and I conceive the conditions of this period to have been 

 not unlike those of the present Gulf of INIexico. The southern and 

 northern shores were older Palaeozoic rocks skirted by a coastal strip 

 of Carboniferous strata, and these two areas were noAv, if not before? 

 connected areas. The other enclosing sides are at present unknown.** 



The gathering in of shore lines thus early indicated, continued with 

 no break, or at most with only a slight break, until a completely 

 land locked sea was formed. In this the Red Beds of Permian age» 

 consisting of a series of inland sea deposits, frequently gypsum bear- 

 ing and saliferous, were deposited. These salt bearing beds more- 

 over indicate an arid climate for this section, Avhich would lead us to 

 infer a considerable area of land. The land was made, however, 

 without distortion of noticeable extent, except possibly in the older 

 Silurian and pre-Silurian strata. 



(c) Jura-Trias Period of Denudation. — The condition of Texas 

 during the Jura-Trias period is but vaguely understood. In the 

 main it was a land area, and the denudation of the period reduced 

 it well down to base-level. This is proved by the contact of the 



' Tarr, l-t Ann.. Rept., Geol. Survey Texas, 1S89, pp. 201-203. 

 Tarr, Am. T- Sci., XL., p. 404. 

 Tarr, Am. J. Sci., XLIII , 1892. pp. 9-12. 

 Tarr, Am. (leol. Sept., 1890, pp. ] 45-153. 



' For a more complete discussion of this phase of the ])iol)lem I refer to an 

 article by the author on "The Permian of Te.xas," Am. J. Sci., XLIII, [an. 

 1892, pp 9-12. 




318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Cretaceous overlap, which is everywhere, on the Carboniferous, a 

 gently undulating line, with no sharply defined buried topographic 

 features. It was a plain and probably a base-leveled plain. The 

 older Palreozoic core formed the highlands of the region, and here, 

 in consequence of the harder nature of the rocks and their more 

 variable character with reference to hardness and altitude, the 

 topography was distinctly more diversified. 



{d) Cretaceous Subsidence. — With the beginning of the Cretaceous 

 period there ca,me an extensive and rapid" subsidence, during which 

 both the upper and the lower Cretaceous beds were deposited. The 

 history of this period has been so fully worked out by Prof Hill and 

 so clearly described by him in various places that I shall do no 

 more than state the fact. This part of the history of Texas is already 

 known to geologists. The several thousand feet of Cretaceous com- 

 pletely buried the older Palseozoic land as first pointed out by Prof. 

 Hill." This fact has been disputed by Dr. Comstock'^ who has spent 

 several years in a study of the older Palaeozoic rocks of the Central 

 Denuded Area. Prof. Hill reiterates his statement later and is sup- 

 ported in the conclusion by Mr. Walcott'' and Dr. Curtice.'' I have 

 studied the problem from a standpoint different from that of the 

 geologists above referred to and am convinced of the accuracy of 

 Prof. Hill's deductions, and, in the paper on this subject above referred 

 to, have given ray reasons for this conclusion, these being both 

 geographic and geologic. Since they do not fall within the scope 

 planned for this joaper I make no further reference to them here. 



This complete transformation of a large area of nearly base- 

 leveled land to a condition of deep sea sedimentation lasted until mid 

 Cretaceous time when there was an elevation followed by another 

 depression in which the upper Cretaceous beds were formed. There 

 was at this time, that is during the upper Cretaceous epoch, a period 

 of volcanic eruption in the vicinity of and southwest of Austin, the 

 relics of which remain now as low necks of nepheline basalt. 

 These, the Shumard Knobs, are, according to Hill, '* marine vol- 

 canoes in the Cretaceous Sea, 



9 For proofs of the rapid subsidence I refer to an article by the author in the 

 American Geologist, Vol. IX, 1892, pp. 169-178. 



10 Am. J. Sci.. XXXVII, 1889, p. 283. 



11 Fir^t Ann. Rept., Texas Geol. Survey, 1889, pp. 31 0-318. 

 Second Ann. Rept., Texas Geol. Survey, 189li, pp. 663-664. 



12 Bull. Geol. Soc. Am., 1890, Vol. II., pp. 522-3. 

 1 a Bull. Geol. Soc. Am.. 1890, Vol., II., pp. 526-.S. 

 1 Am. Geol. Nov. 1890, pp. 286-292. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 319 



(e) Post Cretaceous Changes. — With the close of the Cretaceous 

 period of deposition there began the mountain building work which 

 culminated in the formation of the Kocky ^Mountains and to which 

 the present form of Texas is in large measure due. In the 

 the East it caused the bodily uplift of the great Cretaceous plain, 

 the remnant of which forms the Grand Prairie. An extensive fault, 

 the Balcones fault of Hill, occurred possibly at this time, and is at 

 present an important feature in the topography of eastern Texas. 

 It is, however, such a striking feature and so well marked that it more 

 probably occurred during the Tertiary or possibly even during the 

 Quaternary uplift, to be mentioned presently. 



The Rocky Mountain uplift which formed the plateaus and plains 

 of central Texas, by a bodily uplift more pronounced in the west, 

 took, in the Trans-Pecos region, the form of mountain building. 

 Little is known of these mountains, but the Guadalupe Mountains 

 which the author has studied, are monoclinal in structure, faulted on 

 the western side. Others are more complicated, and some are asso- 

 ciated with igneous eruptions or intrusions. Little is known about 

 this region other than that it is a mountain range and basin region 

 in which Tertiary lakes lingered until the period of Quaternary des- 

 si cation caused them to disappear. 



A period of sedimentation following the Cretaceous uplift admit- 

 ted of the deposition of the Tertiary clays and sands, which, by their 

 elevation, added another strip to the Texas region, that which Prof. 

 Hill has designated the Eocene Lignite or Forest region. Again, 

 in Quaternary time, another strip was added, and the Coastal Prairie 

 is so recent that shells now living in the Gulf are enclosed in the 

 strata as fossils. A slight submergence of very recent date is indi- 

 cated by the fjorded character of the streams on the Texas coast. 



The Llano Estacado plateau is said by Prof Hill"' to be capped 

 by lacustrine sediments of late Tertiary or Quaternary age and this 

 forms anotlier chapter in the history of Texas, but we have few 

 details in regard to this most interesting episode. 



(/) Post Cretaceous Drainage. — It has been my effort in the pre- 

 ceding pages to trace as briefly as possible the geological history 

 of the development of the Texas region — the steps by which it has 

 come to assume the present form. The minor details of the land 

 sculpturing as revealed by the river histories registered in the topo- 

 graphy remain to be considered. A few general points on the sub- 

 1 5 Am. Geol. , V, 1890, pp. 27-2!<. 




320 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



ject may well be stated here before taking up the detailed study. 

 With a few exceptions this study is of necessity confined to east and 

 central Texas for the reason that west Texas, or Traus-Pecos Texas, 

 is practically an unknown land. That part which concerns us 

 most at the present time, is the portion elevated during the begin- 

 ning of the formation of the Rocky Mountains as a great plain, 

 chiefly if not entirely Cretaceous covered, and dipping eastward. 

 Upon this the streams have developed, being revived by the Tertiary 

 and Quaternary uplift. They have in places cut through the Cret- 

 aceous covering and, in the Central Denuded Area, have revealed 

 great areas of buried I*akeozoic rocks upon which they are super- 

 imposed. The reason Avhy the streams have cut through to the 

 Palseozoic at this their most elevated portion is not now definitely 

 cei'tain. It may have been the result of mere chance, or it may be 

 that this region, having a thinner cover than the other region, was 

 first reached, and, being more resisting because relatively elevated 

 and diversified, and consequently a region of excessive denudation, 

 became a center of drainage. Another possibility is that the 

 Palaeozoic Highland was expressed in the Cretaceous sea by a dome- 

 like bulging in the Cretaceous sediments, and consequently was the 

 first land to be made and the first and most ra])idly denuded. 

 For a discussion of the subject I refer to my paper on the Cretaceous 

 Covering of the Central Palaeozoic of Texas.'" 



Part II. — Physiographic Description. 



1. — Gr.XERAL. 



The different geographic units above mentioned exhibit different 

 phenomena and it seems, therefore, best to divide the discussion so 

 as to give each geographic unit a separate consideration. This divi- 

 sion of the subject cannot be adhered to rigidly because the various 

 regions merge one into the other and the physiography of one very 

 often resembles closely that of another. Yet each geographic unit 

 presents unique features and, for this reason, it seems necessary to 

 consider them as units. Moreover it is the only method of treat- 

 ment which seems possible without the introduction of much confu- 

 sion. 



2 — The Quaternary Coastal Prairies. 



(a) Geographic Description. — Of this plain Hill writes/' " It is 



i6Am. Geol., Vol. IX, 1892, pp. im»-17S. 

 I'Am. Geol., V, p. 11. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 321 



perhaps the best example of a newly born topographic plain iu this 

 country." Of the same region Penrose says^"^ "the coast prairies 

 reach inland along the Sabine about fifty miles, but as we go west 

 they spread farther and farther toward the interior, until when we 

 come to the Brazos, they reach up the river for over a hundred 

 miles. Near the Gulf shore they are flat and low, rising twenty to 

 thirty feet above the water, thickly covered with grass and cut bj'^ 

 steep-sided channels of man}'^ rivers and creeks. The monotony of 

 the scenery is broken only by the narrow strips of timber which fol- 

 low the meandering course of the streams down toward the Gulf of 

 Mexico. " On its inner or western margin it becomes undulating 

 and merges into the rolling timber area. 



Where I crossed the plain from Houston to Galveston it is little 

 more than an undrained swamp. The steep sided stream channels 

 are sunk but a few feet beneath the surface and between these are 

 great flat-topped, undrained divides upon which water stands dur- 

 ing the greater ])art of the year. Rushes and swamp grass have 

 possession and even cattle find the plain too inhospitable for habita- 

 tion. Now and then, though very rarely even along the railroad, 

 on some slight elevation a settler has placed his house and a few cat- 

 tle graze in the vicinity. Everywhere else there is one monotonous 

 stretch of dead-level plain. So young is the plain that I'ecent fossils 

 at present living in the Gulf are preserved in the prairie strata. 



(b) Young, Consequent, and Extended Drainage. — Two types of 

 rivers exist upon this coastal plain : the extended rivers, having 

 their supply in the interior, and the young consequent streams which 

 are developing between these. The Brazos, Colorado and Trinity 

 are instances of the former and innumerable creeks are examples of 

 the latter. 



The extended rivers, receiving their supply of water and sediment 

 from the inland plains, reach the Quaternary prairies as full sized, 

 well developed streams and they monopolize the drainage of the 

 plain. As the plain was elevated they grew out across it and 

 by their power, resulting from size and priority of location, they 

 have seized upon the major part of the plain as their own. The 

 extended course is consequent on the original slope of the phxin ; 

 that is, Gulf- ward. In the spaces left undrained by these larger and 

 stronger rivers consequent streams are now developing. The 

 extended streams grow at their mouth, the smaller young streams 



'^First Am. Kept., Texas (ieol. Survey, 1SS9, p. 7. 




322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



are growing at their headwaters. The time of occupancy by these 

 two types of streams has been so short that the intei'spaces are flat- 

 topped and undrained, and the channels steep-sided and caiiou- 

 like. 



(c) Estuarine Condition. — Even in this brief period the streams of 

 the coastal prairie have been subjected to an accident. All the 

 larger streams are at their mouths estuarine. They are also flow- 

 ing, even on the plain many miles from the shore, in channels with 

 little slope. These facts record a slight submergence since the 

 greatest elevation, though the phenomenon is also due in part 

 to the overburdened condition of the streams. 



(d) Young, Growing Coast Line. — The extended rivers helped to 

 form the coastal plain when the shore line was farther inland, and 

 they are now at work with the aid of tides, waves and currents in 

 the construction of a similar plain along its margin. Each large 

 river is overburdened with sediment derived from the Tertiary 

 clays, the Cretaceous, and Palaeozoic rocks, and this sediment is 

 being used by the waves and tides in the construction of land. The 

 coast line is growing outward. Shoals, bars, and islands are regis- 

 ters of this growth, and the beaches, even the much boasted beach 

 at Galveston, upon which the surf rolls laden and muddy with river 

 furnished sediment, show the progress of outward growth. The har- 

 bors of Texas exist because the river mouths are fjorded, and 

 because protective bars and islands have been thrown across the 

 mouths of the estuaries, by the currents laden with sediment brought 

 down by the rivers. They are poor harbors because the excess of 

 sediment thus furnished is being deposited in the estuaries. The 

 engineering improvements proposed for the harbors of the Texas 

 coast must take into account this outward growth of the coast 

 line. 



The bars thrown up along the Gulf coast line have enclosed 

 lagoons, sometimes quite completely, and here is formed one of the 

 few kinds of lacustrine basins in Texas. 



3 — The Rolling Forested Tertiary Area. 



(a) Topographic Description. — This country ^^ consists largely of 

 the inshore part of the bottom of the old Tertiary Sea, which once 

 covered the whole Gulf coast. This area has been elevated into a 



^'The description in tiiis paragraph is abstracted from Penrose's report on the 

 Gulf Tertiary of east Texas. (Kirst Ann. Kept., Texas Geol. Survey, 1889, pp. 

 7-13), the abstracts in most cases being verbatim quotations. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 323 



table-land one hundred to seven hundred feet above the sea level, 

 sloping gradually to the southeast and emptying its waters in the 

 same direction into the Gulf of Mexico. Since its elevation it has 

 undergone great erosion and is still being denuded at a tremendous 

 rate. The strata are all composed of sands and clays, and succumb 

 very readily to the eroding action of atmospheric agencies. The 

 result is that all that is left of the once level surface of this table- 

 land are a few flat-topped hills and ridges. The highest points, 

 locally called mountains, are buttes or mesas having their summits 

 capped by an almost horizontal bed of iron ore or sandstone, and to 

 this covering they o\Ye their existence. A large part of this area is 

 a heavily timbered region, and marks the southwestern terminus of 

 the great Atlantic timber belt, extending from the Arctic regions 

 continuously along the coast of the Atlantic Ocean and the Gulf of 

 Mexico until it finally disappears in the mesquite and cactus prai- 

 ries between the Colorado River and the Rio Grande. 



(6) Mature, Consequent and Extended Drainage. — The conditions 

 described above, under the Quaternary, in all probability are repe- 

 titions of similar conditions in the Tertiary area in earlier times. 

 This area is composed of horizontal and cross-bedded strata, now 

 partly consolidated clays and sands, which undoubtedly formed a 

 coastal strip at the close of the late Tertiary uplift. Streams which 

 had developed on the Cretaceous plains and had uncovered portions 

 of the buried Paljeozoic, extended across the coastal strip of Ter- 

 tiary strata, and between them young consequent streams began 

 their development. The Brazos, Trinity and Colorado were here, 

 as in the present coastal strip, extended rivers. The then young 

 consequent streams of the older plain, such as the Neches and Ange- 

 lina, are now extended across the Quaternary plain. 



The elevation of the old coastal strip was greater than that of the 

 more recent one for it now rises on its inner margin, in some places, 

 to an elevation of seven hundred feet above sea level and there is 

 evidence that it extended farther inland at one time. The topo- 

 graphic development of this region of Tertiary strata has proceeded 

 to the point of producing a rolling country of low and gently slop- 

 ing hills with broad valleys. In other words it has proceeded as 

 far as early maturity. It may seem at first thought that this is at 

 variance with the description of the Cretaceous area which follows. 

 Here the streams are topographically young, yet this land is vastly 

 older. This apparent anomaly is due to three causes: first, the fact 




324 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



that the streams on the Cretaceous have been rejuvenated by the late 

 Tertiary and Quaternary elevation in the first of which the area 

 under consideration was elevated above sea level as a young 

 unscored plain ; secondly, that the streams on the Tertiary are 

 chiefly extended, hence well developed lower portions of streams 

 and their development is more rapid than the headwater sti-eams 

 which are also higher above sea level and hence have a greater 

 depth to cut through before reaching base level ; and thirdly, 

 the fact that the Tertiary strata are unconsolidated while those of 

 the Cretaceous are in large part indurated. Topographic age is a 

 relative term varying according to circumstances, not the least 

 important of which is the character of the strata. In soft strata 

 topographic maturity will be reached much sooner than in hard 

 strata, other conditions being equal. 



(c) Origin of the Flood Plains. — The broad flood plains of the 

 forested area are worthy of some attention. In the spring and early 

 summer such streams as the Brazos in this region overflow their 

 banks and transform the swampy malarial plains upon either side 

 into impassable lakes, very much as does the Red River of Arkan- 

 sas. The immediate cause of this is the excessive floods which come 

 from the rains at the headwaters. The reason why such excessive 

 flooding is possible is that the rivers of Texas are overburdened 

 streams. The sands and clays of the Permian and Carboniferous 

 areas cause the streams which flow through them to be overbur- 

 dened far up toward the headwaters, and this condition continues 

 and increases through the Cretaceous and Tertiary areas. In the 

 forested region, the slope being diminished as the sea is approached, 

 much of the sediment burden can be carried no farther. This ten- 

 dency to deposit the sediment in the stream beds has been exagger- 

 ated by the recent slight submergence indicated by the fjords and 

 estuaries at the river mouths in the Quaternary plain. In this way 

 the deposits near the mouths of the streams have been brought 

 about in the effort to restore the profile of equilibrium, and secure a 

 channel-way to the sea through which the sediment load can be 

 transported. This establishment of the profile of equilibrium is now 

 in progress and the flood plains are growing up stream. 



For some reason there has been a change in conditions of recent 

 date. Formerly the rivers flowing through this Tertiary area were 

 able to keep their channels clear and carve them deeper. Now they 

 are building them up, and this in spite of an elevation of some fifty 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 325 



feet. This change is greater than can be accounted for by the 

 recent slight submergence, and there is evidence that it began before 

 the submergence, for the flood plains are broad and deep and conse- 

 quently old, whereas the estuaries are so recent that they have 

 hardly begun to be filled. 



AVhatever be the explanation it must be one whose chief factor is 

 an increase in sediment, and for this two hypotheses suggest them- 

 selves. In the normal development of a stream there comes a time 

 when, by the growth of headwaters, the supply ot sediment exceeds 

 the power of the stream to transport it and the stream becomes 

 overburdened. Under different circumstances this condition ap- 

 pears at different times. In such rivers as the Platte it is a long 

 eniluring condition, in others it may never occur, but in general it is 

 a stage in development. It is possible that the Texas streams have 

 reached this stage. 



From my knowledge of the Texas rivers I am inclined to believe 

 that the explanation must be modified by the introduction of the 

 second hypothesis. It is quite certain that the climate of west and 

 central Texas has not long since changed from a moderately moist to 

 an arid climate. This is indicated by the old lake basins, now 

 nearly dry, in the Trans-Pecos region ; and, in central Texas, by 

 the headwaters of the Colorado, well defined valleys now abandoned 

 through dessication, to be described later. Probably this change 

 of climate was coincident with the change registered in Lake 

 Bonneville, and consequently with the disappearance of the conti- 

 nental glaciers. During the moist period the soil was clothed with 

 vegetation and the rains were more uniform and less violent than at 

 present. Under the present conditions nearly every rain in the 

 serai- arid region comes as a heavy fall, and, striking the barren 

 plains, transports much sediment. An arid type of arroyo-like 

 drainage has replaced the more perfectly developed drainage of the 

 earlier period. 



It seems to me quite certain that the extensive flood plains of the 

 forested area are the result jjartly of a change in climate to more 

 arid, partly of a stage in development when the overburdened con- 

 dition of the rivers has been reached. "What effect the Llano Esta- 

 cado, which Professor Hill considers Quaternary Lake beds, may 

 have in this connection I am unable to say. It would in all proba- 

 bility add one more factor to the pioblem and this another source of 




826 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



sediment supply. The slight submergence of the coast line has 

 merely increased the tendency to build flood plains. 



(d) Origin of Forests. — The rolling Tertiary area is a forested 

 area unlike the coastal prairies on the one side and the Cretaceous 

 plain on the other. I am unable to say definitely why this is so. 

 The soil is more sandy and consequently more porous than that of 

 the Cretaceous and this in all probability is the reason why forests 

 exist here.'"" The coastal strip is entirely too wet for forest growth. 



(e) Rio Grande Embayment. — I have entirely omitted the con- 

 sideration of the Rio Grande embayment for the reason that I have 

 no personal knowledge respecting it, and indeed little is known 

 about it. It is evident that the lower Rio Grande was estuarine in 

 Tertiary times, but of the extent and nature of this I am unable to 

 speak. 



4 — The CRtTACEOUs Grand Prairie. 



(a) Topographic Description. — Professor R. T. Hill has so fre- 

 quently described this region^ ^ from various standpoints that I feel 

 called upon to make in large measure merely a brief summary of 

 his results. This great Ci'etaceous plateau is in reality made up of 

 two plateaus separated by a quite continuous scarp, the Balcones 

 scarp of Hill, in part. That portion of the plateau which lies to the 

 east of this escarpment is called by him the Black Prairie region, 

 while the name Grand Prairie is assigned to that part which lies to 

 the west. The Black Prairie is a gently undulating plateau with 

 varying width, merging to the east into the forested area, to the 

 west ending abruptly at the base of the scarp. The soil is black 

 and sticky when wet, whence its name, the Black Waxy Prairie. 



The scarp is in part a scarp of erosion, but a fault scarp in the 

 vicinity of Austin, and to the southwest as far as the Rio Grande. 

 It forms a marked topographic feature, a rather abrupt wall rising 

 to a height of two or three hundred feet. The fact that the fault is 

 so plainly indicated in the topography seems to point to a recent 

 origin, though this is advanced only tentatively. A number of large 

 springs occur along the fault line. 



'"'Penrose states (First Ann. Rept., Texas Geol. Survey, 1889, p. i)) that the 

 early settlers found this rer;ion much less densely timbered than at present. This 

 was piriiCLilarly the case on the uplands. He suggests as an explanation of this 

 the habit which the Indians had of burning the tall grass in their search for 

 game. 



2iSee particularly. Am. Geol., Vol. V, 1890, pp. 9-29- 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELrillA. 327 



Nearly coincident with this line are a series of volcanic knobs, 

 the Shumard knobs of Hill, and referred by hini-^ to marine vol- 

 canoes in the Cretaceons sea. It is not impossible that there exists 

 here an old Cretaceous fiiult line, a line of weakness which in the 

 Tertiary elevations furnished a slipping plain from which the pres- 

 ent fault of the Balcones resulted. The Shumard knobs at present 

 exist as a series of low, w^ell-rounded hills rising out of the prairie, 

 and made up of nepheline basalt. 



The Grand Prairie proper consists of a series of nearly horizontal, 

 gently east-dipping, alternating hard and soft beds of lower Creta- 

 ceous. Its eastern margin is regular, and coincides with the western 

 margin of the Black Prairie. On the western edge, on the other 

 hand, the escarpment is one of extreme irregularity and vveird 

 beauty. The Colorado River and its tributaries have here cut 

 through the Cretaceous and reached the underlying Palaeozoic rocks ; 

 and the young drainage, intensified by the sub-humid conditions of 

 rainfall, has caused a marvellous complication of buttes, mesas, 

 irregular parks, and projecting promontories. The young drainage 

 has cut down to the base of the Cretaceous, but subrenal denudation 

 has not been able to keep pace with the down-cutting, and flat-top- 

 ped divides remain between the streams. A hard stratum of lime- 

 stone caps these buttes and mesas and is largely responsible for the 

 type of topography. This irregular escarpment almost completely 

 surrounds the region, so aptly called the Butte or Denuded region 

 by Professor Hill, and far away from the scarp, out on the Carbon- 

 iferous strata, isolated buttes, remnants of the former Cretaceous 

 covering, still remain. 



(6) Tlie Cross Timbers. — This Grand Prairie region is treeless 

 except for two narrow strips, the Cross Timbers, which extend 

 approximately north and south across the prairie. Along the 

 streams and in the rougher parts of the area live-oaks and other 

 Texas trees grow in small groves or in isolated patches. The Cross 

 Timbers early attracted the attention of the settlers and many spec- 

 ulations have been indulged in to account for their existence. 

 Loughridge, for instance, in the Tenth Census report states that 

 these occupy two old abandoned river beds. Hill has, however, 

 shown- ^ that this is not so, for the timber areas occupy two sandy 

 strips which are not river beds but merely the outcrop of sandy 

 layers in the Cretaceous. 



'■".■\m. Geo!., Nov. 1891. pp. :>8r)-294. 

 ^'Am. J. Sci., April, LS87. 




328 rPvOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Hill ascribes their presence here to the influence of the sand 

 which, by its porous nature and the fact that it is a storehouse for 

 moisture, renders tree growth possible, whereas the clays of the prai- 

 rie are too close grained for forest growth. I find myself unable to 

 agree with Prof. Hill on this point, for I believe the cause of 

 the absence of forested areas on these plains is to be found in the 

 habit which the Indians had of setting fire to the prairies in order to 

 facilitate the search for game."* INIy reason for the belief is that 

 wherever in this region, for any reason, the growth of grass is sparse, 

 forests or groves or scattered trees grow. In the Carboniferous 

 area, enclosed in part in this Grand Prairie, the hill sides are 

 almost invariably covered with a sparse tree growth, whereas the 

 low undulating divides are treeless, although there is very little if 

 any difference in character of soil, except that the hill sides are 

 more rocky. This is true on both limestone and sandstone soils. It 

 seems to me much more reasonable to suppose that, being sandy, 

 these areas supported a growth of vegetation too sparse to readily 

 spread the prairie fires and were consequently protected from them 

 and therefore are forested. From my view of the Cross Timbers in 

 a drive across them I feel confident that a fire could not long burn 

 in them, for they are low scrub oaks and very much scattered. 



(c) Rejuvenated Peneplain. — The drainage of the Cretaceous pla- 

 teau is young, or, more i^roperly, rejuvenated. There are great 

 areas of Cretaceous removed, so much indeed that I think it 

 extremely unlikely that it has all been removed in the present cycle. 

 The stripping of the covering from the central Palaeozoic prairie, 

 the removal of the upper Cretaceous beds from the Grand Prairie, 

 and the uncovering of the Shumard Knobs and their subsequent 

 denudation are hardly in keeping with the supposition that this 

 work has been done by young streams. My acquaintance with the 

 drainage of the Cretaceous Grand Prairie is so slight (being confined 

 to the vicinity of Austin with the exception of one or two trips 

 across it on the railroad) that I cannot state as a definite fact the 

 history of the region which I suspect ; but there is a line of reason- 

 ing which renders it highly probable that before the Tertiary eleva- 

 tion the Cretaceous was reduced nearly to sea level. It is as follows: — 

 In the first place the vast denudation mentioned above suggests 

 long continued erosion. At the beginning the Cretaceous was at 

 least seven hundred feet lower than at present, and this condition 

 2*Shaler,— Aspects of the Earth,— New York, 1889, p. 287- 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 329 



remained at least until the close of the Eocene, possibly to the begin- 

 ning of the Quaternary. Such a lapse of time must have been 

 represented by erosion amounting almost if not quite to base-level- 

 ling. It is moreover probable that the interior of Texas was very 

 different from the present as regards geography. Portions of it 

 were beneath the sea or in an inland sea condition. This applies par- 

 ticularly to the Trans-Pecos region and the Staked Plains. It was 

 also, in all probability, much lower than at present, even more than 

 seven hundred feet lower, for as yet the growth of the Rocky ]Mount- 

 ains had hardly begun. It was probably this growth which raised 

 the Tertiary above the sea, this elevation being represented by 

 seven hundred feet or more at the margin of the Tertiary sea. Since 

 the elevating force was to the west the elevation consisted in a tilt- 

 ing, the elevation increasing in the interior. This is shown by the 

 dip of the beds of the Cretaceous and Tertiary. 



If this line of argument is correct the interior of Texas Avas lower 

 than at present by more than a thousand feet, hence the land to be 

 base-leveled was less both in thickness and in areal extent. This 

 renders base-levelling of Tertiary times more probable. An exami- 

 nation of the field with this possibility in mind ought to show evi- 

 dence of this condition. The only field evidence corroborative of 

 this hypothesis Avhich I am able to give is a point which is very 

 noticeable in the region which I have studied in some detail, namely, 

 the Carboniferous. The rivers in this section, though young at 

 present and consequently very rapid in flow, instead of pursuing 

 direct courses, follow rock walled channels remarkable for their 

 meandering. This is strikingly shown in the Brazos and the Colo- 

 rado in the region under consideration. It seems difficult to explain 

 these meandering courses upon any other supposition than an 

 inheritance from a former plain. 



I believe that further physiographic studies of the Texas region 

 will show that at the close of the Cretaceous there was an elevation 

 due to a recurrence of the mountain growth of the old buried 

 mountainous areas of central Texas, which raised a portion of the 

 Cretaceous above the sea. This portion, now known as the Cen- 

 tral Denuded area was a moderately low land, which, during Ter- 

 tiary times, suffered extensive denudation, becoming a peneplain. The 

 Rocky Mountain elevation added to this area the plateau to the 

 west and the Tertiary to the east, and by rejuvenation gave the 

 streams new life and new tasks with which they are now wrestling. 



21 




330 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Whatever the former condition of this area, the drainage is at 

 present in a state of youth or early adolescence. Larger rivers, 

 such as the Colorado, flow in deep canons, sometimes with almost 

 vertical walls and with small flood plains, sometimes with none. 

 The river flow is rapid, and the channel is at times obstructed with 

 rapids. Into these larger valleys side streams empty through nar- 

 row canons with rapid slope, and the divides have not been 

 reduced to a state of tolerable permanency but often remain gently 

 rounded broad topped areas. This is particularly true of that jtart 

 of the prairie immediately to the west of the Balcones scarp, — 

 another suggestion of the recency of this fault. In the denuded 

 Palaeozoic area other conditions exist, as I shall attempt to show 

 shortly ; in the lower lying Tertiary area to the east, the beds being 

 softer, the elevation less, and the streams overburdened, the topo- 

 graphy, as has been already stated, is less abrupt, less distinctly 

 young, and the streams, though rapid, are not carving their chan- 

 nels deeper but are building them higher in order to establish a pro- 

 file of equilibrium, a slope down which the sediment load can all be 

 carried. 



5. — Central Pal.t.ozoic Denuded Area. 



(a) Topograjilnc Description. — In this region there are three dis- 

 tinct classes of topographic relief, the result of erosion upon three 

 different classes of rock, the Silurian, Carboniferous and Cretaceous. 

 The Silurian, with its inherited rugged topography of pre-Cretaceous 

 age, has, since the removal of the Cretaceous, been exposed to quite 

 rapid denudation, because of its greater elevation. Consequently 

 the Silurian area is a region of marked topographic diversity, and 

 this feature tends to be preserved because of the great durability of 

 the rock. Not only is this varied outline brought about by eleva- 

 tion, inherited relief and the hardness of the rock, but also because 

 of the complicated stratigraphy which in a measure guides the ero- 

 sion. 



One can, in a measure, tell the differenee between the Silurian 

 and Carboniferous by the topographic outline, for the hills of the 

 latter are more broadly flat-topped, though by no means as strik- 

 ingly so as the Cretaceous. The butte and mesa type of erosion so 

 characteristic of the Cretaceous in this region is so entirely absent 

 from the Carboniferous that generally no difiiculty is experienced 

 in discriminating between Cretaceous and Carboniferous by the 

 topographic features alone. 




1893.] XATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILABELPHIA. 331 



The Carboniferous has inherited from Pre-Cretaceous time a base- 

 levelled surface, and where the Cretaceous has only recently been 

 removed the Carboniferous hills are broad and flat-topped. All of 

 the Carboniferous, excepting that close to the larger streams, might 

 be said to have been recently uncovered ; but generally the surface 

 is more or less carved by recent erosion which has destroyed much 

 of the inherited topographic individuality. In San Saba county, 

 however, about midway between the Colorado and San Saba Rivers, 

 there is a long flat-topped divide extending for a distance of twelve 

 miles in an east and west direction, but in places somewhat destroyed 

 by the headwater erosion of some small creeks. This divide is 

 approximately the Pre-Carboniferous land surface, and that it has 

 very recently been uncovered is proved by the fact that these hill- 

 tops are all somewhat littered with pebbles of the Trinity (lower- 

 most Cretaceous) conglomerate — the last remnant of the Cretaceous 

 covering. The flat-topped divide is less than a mile in width. 

 For the conquest of this the small tributaries of Richland Creek are 

 combating with some small creeks tributary directly to the Colorado. 

 The latter have previously had the best in the contest and have 

 pushed the divide back to within three miles of Richland Creek. 



Away from the divide, and nearer to the center of strong erosion, 

 that is near the large streams, the Carboniferous is very much cut 

 up into sharp hills and deep valleys and this feature is now extend- 

 ing into the higher and more remote regions. Where denudation 

 of this strong type has been for some time in progress in the Car- 

 boniferous area, two distinct types of topography have arisen, one 

 in sections where the bed rock is of quite uniform character, the 

 other in regions of greater lithologic diversity. The great sandstone 

 area of San Saba county is a typical example of the former ; and 

 here sharply rising hills with deep valleys on the several sides have 

 resulted. In portions less exposed to denudation the surface is 

 gently undulating. 



Where the lithologic character is diverse, long hills running 

 northeast and southwest with steep blufts on the southeast side 

 result. This is the direct result of the effect of strike and dip, and 

 furnishes an excellent example of monoclinal shifting of divides. 

 In Coleman County the topography is distinctly of this type because 

 here there are alternating beds of soft clays and hard limestones 

 with a gentle dip to the northwest. The hills are step-like, and in 

 travelling across the county one rises by a steep slope from one 




332 proceedi>:gs of the academy of [1893. 



plain to another, the face of the slope being clay, littered with 

 bowlders dropped down from the overlying limestone stratum which 

 forms the floor of the plain above. If these beds were horizontal 

 there would be here a butte and mesa topograpliy instead of a step- 

 topography. 



Almost completely surrounding this area is the irregular Creta- 

 ceous escarpment with its buttes and mesas, and, upon the Carboni- 

 ferous itself, often many miles from this scarp, are degraded rem- 

 nants of Cretaceous in isolated buttes, or small mesas, or in degraded 

 patches the last remnants of former buttes. These buttes are cap- 

 ped by a hard limestone and once this is cut through and destroyed 

 the complete destruction of the Cretaceous is easy, since the major 

 part of the beds beneath are soft and quite incoherent. These 

 buttes and mesas are here because they are divides between streams, 

 and, as at the divide the development of the stream is least rapid, so 

 here at the divides the removal of tlie Cretaceous covering has been 

 least complete. 



(6) Peculiarities of Creek Erosion. — The stream valleys of the 

 central Texas region furnish interesting peculiarities, the result, in 

 large measure, of the peculiar rainfall conditions. During the 

 winter which I spent there, from November to February inclusive, 

 there was not a single rain that raised the volume of the stream per- 

 ceptibly; but in the spring and summer the country is liable to 

 excessive rains and the streams to excessive floods. For the greater 

 part of the year little erosive work is done but occasional floods do 

 much more in a few days than is done during the entire year in a 

 rainy country. The violence of this erosion is everywhere shown in 

 the creeks both by the character of the bars and other deposits and, 

 in the larger streams, by the presence of rafted logs well up in the 

 tops of the pecan trees. On the Colorado I have seen large logs 

 lodged in the trees fully fifty feet above the low water surface of the 

 river. 



Creek erosion under these circumstances differs in some minor 

 respects in different parts of the region, ])articularly in the sandstone 

 and limestone regions. In the Silurian, for instance, where the 

 rocks are chiefly marble, the creek valleys are deep, precipitous and 

 jDicturesque, with blufl^s and isolated columns of limestone, and, over 

 all, a beautiful mat of moss and ferns. Some of these valleys are 

 fully seventy-five feet deep, yet, during the greater part of the year 

 no water flows in these creeks, or, at the best, only a small, clear 

 stream slowly trickles down. The water stands in pools and slowly 




1893.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 333 



trickles for a short distance from pool to pool. The pools are gen- 

 erally rock walled but have not been formed in the manner of pot 

 holes. The original beginning of a pool may have been after the 

 manner of mechanically formed pot holes or may have been from 

 some chemical weakness of the rock. Some of these pools which are 

 many yards in extent and very irregular, are plainly the result of 

 corrosion chiefly, a process which is continually extending the area 

 of the pool since the water is constantly standing in it. Small 

 waterfalls of similar origin are quite prevalent ; but nothing shows 

 the effect of corrosion as well as the undercut terraces common in 

 the limestone of the Silurian, Carboniferous and Cretaceous. These 

 terraces, which are in the form of long caves parallel to the course 

 of the stream, mark the ordinary high water stage of the stream. 

 They bear a general resemblance to some sea caves and in some 

 cases are of mechanical origin where the high water stage coincides 

 with some lithologic weakness, as is often the case in the Cretaceous, 

 but, more frequently, and particularly in the Silurian and Carboni- 

 ferous, they are the direct result of corrosive action of flood water. 

 Sometimes one or two of these benches, somewhat destroyed, by sub- 

 »rial denudation, exist on the bluffs above the one at present form- 

 ing, marking former high stages when the river bed was higher. In 

 these creek bluffs, from ten to fifty feet above the creek bed, may 

 also be seen actual caves extending far into the wall, marking the 

 former existence of underground streams or springs at a time when 

 the bed of the creek was much higher than at present. Springs, 

 perhaps similar to what these formerly were, are quite common in 

 the Silurian, as for instance, in Wallace Creek where several large 

 springs bubble up from the creek bed at the base of a high bluff" of 

 Silurian magnesian marble. 



The streams of the sandstone region, of which Antelope Creek in 

 Mills County may be taken as a typical example, present the same 

 general features as those in the limestone ; but the walls are rarely 

 as steep and high and caves are seldom seen. This is the natural, 

 result of the difference in lithologic character, and for the same rea- 

 son the pools are not of corrosive but of mechanical origin. In the 

 great supply of sediment produced, frequently from the denudation 

 of the Trinity conglomerate and sands of the lower Cretaceous, the 

 floods iind more material than can be carried away and the stream 

 bed is littered with bars and small deltas, which, during the greater 

 part of the year, form the enclosing sides of temporary pools, some- 




334 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



times several liundred feet in length. Where the creek flows 

 through a flood plain of gravel the channel is between gi'avel 

 banks, generally less than thirty-five feet wide and twenty-five feet 

 deep. At flood time not only is the channel filled, but the sur- 

 rounding plain is covered with water for some distance, and during 

 these times the erosive work of the year is done. 



(c) Effect of the Superimposition of the Colorado on the Silurian. 



(?) Temporary Base Level. — The Colorado River and its tributa- 

 ries which drain this region, are superim2:»osed through the Creta- 

 ceous upon the buried Palseozoic. It so happens that the Colorado 

 itself has found, in its down cutting, a hard spur of Silurian marble 

 and it is now wrestling with this obstacle. Over this spur the cur- 

 rent flows with numerous rapids, and the stream is here very busy 

 deepening its channel ; the precipitous walls of its caiion, which 

 begin here, show that the work has for some time been in progress. 

 The softer Carboniferous rocks upstream from this, yield much more 

 readily and the stream above the Silurian is waiting for the pro- 

 gress of the work beh)W. The river is eroding on the Silurian but 

 is building up on the Carboniferous for a score of miles above the 

 natural dam, since the river is always heavily burdened. 



This accident to the river has given rise to several interesting 

 peculiarities, not only the river itself but all its large tributaries being 

 influenced by the retardation. They have reached a temporary 

 base level, their mouths are widening and extensive flood plains are 

 being built. This is seen in the Pecan Bayou and in the San Saba 

 River. The latter in its upper course flows in a deep canon in the 

 Silurian where it is still at work eroding, but for eight or ten miles 

 from its mouth it has reached the temporary base-level and is not 

 at work eroding its channel. 



The flood plain of the Colorado is frequently fifty feet deep and 

 is being rapidly built up. This is proved by buried trees, both dead 

 stumps and partly buried living pecans. In flood-time great quan- 

 tities of sediment are brought down from the headwaters and 

 deposited here and during the winter very little is done toward 

 removing this material, for even then the river is heavily burdened. 



In a river of such habits as the Colorado the valley is, as would 

 be expected, j^eculiar. The ordinary channel, though quite wide 

 and deep, is incapable of holding even the ordinary floods. Such 

 floods, which may occur several times in a year and last for several 

 days, do not rise to the level of the flood plain proper, but 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 335 



have carved out a channel in this flood plain nearly twice as Avide 

 as the natural channel. The greater spring floods extend even 

 above this channel and cover the neighboring flood plain. Thus 

 the valley of the Colorado is terraced, the first terrace being about 

 thirty-five feet above the bed of the low-water channel, and the sec- 

 ond, or flood plain proper, fifteen feet or thereabouts above the first. 

 The first or high water terrace is sometimes on both sides of the 

 river, though generally on one side better developed than on the 

 other. The second or flood plain terrace is usually well developed 

 on both sides. This form of terrace is not without its significance 

 in connection with some of the river terraces of the glacial belt.^^ 



The Colorado wdiich, as suggested above, is a young stream prob- 

 ably because of the rejuvenating influence of the Tertiary uplift, 

 shows all the signs of youth. In the hard Silurian not only is the 

 valley a canon, but the channel is marked by numerous rapids. On 

 the softer Carboniferous the canon is disappearing, particularly 

 where the retarding influence of the hard Silurian barriers is felt. 

 The tributaries, and the river itself above the temporarily base- 

 levelled parts, are rapidly at Avork, and deep and narrow canon val- 

 leys with rapid slope are the result. 



(ii) Loss of Drainage Territory. — The influence of the Silurian 

 barrier has made itself felt in another respect. As has been stated, 

 the eastern border of the denuded area is an escarpment of Creta- 

 ceous of irregular form — a region of buttes and mesas. This 

 escarpment is a part of the valley of the Colorado and the minor 

 details of sculpturing are the result of the erosive work of the tribu- 

 taries to the Colorado. Only a few miles from the main river (six 

 to ten miles) there is a flat-topped divide separating the waters of 

 the Brazos from those of the Colorado. The former has tributaries 

 here that have to flow seventy-five miles before emptying into the 

 main river. In other words, the Brazos has pushed its conquest, by 

 headwater erosion, into the territory of the Colorado and has placed 

 the divide only a few miles from the latter. 



The reason for this seems quite certainly to be the influence of 

 the Silurian barrier. This explanation will be found in more detail 

 elsewhere.-'' It is, briefly, that the two rivers, the Brazos and the 

 Colorado, are superimposed through the Cretaceous on the Pal?eo- 

 zoic, but the latter, encountering the hard Silurian, has had its down 

 cutting retarded, whereas the Brazos has had only the much softer 



2»Tarr, Am. J. Sci., XLIV, 1892, pp. 59-61. 




336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Carboniferous beds to cut through, and these higher up in its 

 course. This has consequently given to the Brazos tributaries much 

 more power than is possessed by those of the Colorado. The Colo- 

 rado flows in a channel between eleven and twelve hundred feet 

 above sea-level, just above the Silurian, whereas the Brazos east of 

 here is only half that elevation. 



(cZ) Adjusted Stream Cour-ies. — The valley of the Colorado in this 

 vicinity is remarkable for its serpentine course. In one place the 

 river flows in a bend six miles long where a cut-off" would reduce the 

 distance to two miles. Along the boundary of San Saba county the 

 river flows fifty miles, and, at the end of this distance, is only thirty 

 miles from the first point. The valley here is a canon, somewhat 

 degraded it is true, but nevertheless the serpentine course is one in 

 rock walls, not upon a flood plain. I have suggested in an earlier 

 part of this paper that this course may be in a large measure an 

 inherited course from a Tertiary peneplain, formed before the eleva- 

 tion recorded both by the Tertiary forested area and by the rejuven- 

 ated condition of the streams in the Cretaceous. The fact that the 

 Brazos has much the same peculiarity supports this hypothesis. 



While I believe this to be a true cause I am equally convinced 

 that it is not the sole cause. The entire drainage system of the 

 Colorado in the denuded area is superimposed."' It is in conse- 

 quence not in accord with the revealed structure, for its course was 

 originally consequent on a Cretaceous surface, and this course is 

 now enforced upon it in spite of the altered condition. It is, how- 

 ever, a habit of rivers to attempt adjustment under such conditions 

 and to be influenced by the revealed structure ; and, as time goes 

 on, this adjustment becomes more complete. As I have shown in 

 the article cited many of the tributaries to the Colorado are quite in 

 accord with the Carboniferous structure, particularly in the regions 

 that have been longest exposed, and in the smaller streams. This 

 has given rise to strike valleys which, in the vicinity of the Creta- 

 ceous, change to unadjusted courses. 



Dr. Comstock^' has called attention to the quite perfect accord of 

 the streams on the Silurian to the more complicated structure, this 

 being the result, in a large measure, of the longer exposure of this 

 region, by the early removal of the Cretaceous. 



^STarr, Am. J. Sci., XL, 1890, pp. .359-362. 



2"For a discussion of this subject see an article by the author in Am. J. Sci., XL, 

 1890, pp. 359-86:i. 



28Second Ann. Report, Geol. Survey Texas, 1890, p. 064. 




1893.] NATURAL scIE^'c^•:s of piiiladelphia. 337 



The Colorado itself shows signs of attempts at adjustment. The 

 general course of the Colorado is across the strike of the Carbonifer- 

 ous, but in several of the loops the two long sides are in the direc- 

 tion of the strike while the short side is at right angles to this. The 

 river is there locally in adjustment. While this may be accidental, 

 it seems hardly possible when we take into consideration the 

 number of instances where it may be noticed. 



(e) Summary of the History of the Colorado. — To briefly summa- 

 rize the history of the Colorado in this region, as I interpret it, it 

 may be said that the river appears to have begun upon the Creta- 

 ceous which in this region was first to be raised above the sea, at the 

 close of the Cretaceous. The long stand indicated by the Tertiary 

 dei)osits gave the rivers time to reduce the elevated portion approx- 

 imately to base-level, and the present serpentine courses of the 

 streams are an inheritance from this period. 



The late Tertiary elevation of seven hundred feet, and probably 

 more, rejuvenated the streams, and this accounts for the signs of 

 youthfulness now apparent. The later Quaternary elevation has pro- 

 duced no marked effect here. The Colorado, being superimposed 

 upon the Silurian, is retarded in its development and has been 

 robbed by the Brazos of much of the drainage territory which would 

 normally belong to it. It has also, above the barrier, been reduced 

 to a temporary base-level and its canon is being degraded and its 

 channel even being built up. Both the smaller tributaries and the 

 Colorado itself are adjusting themselves to the structure of the Car- 

 boniferous upon which they have been superimposed. 



G. — The Arid Plateau. 



(a) Topographic Description. — My knowledge of the plains is 

 confined to a single journey across them by wagon and this descrip- 

 tion must therefore be very general ; but the plains are very monot- 

 onous and one becomes acquainted with their general physical fea- 

 tures even in such a hasty reconnoissance. It is a great semi-arid 

 phuu, truly arid in the west, with isolated buttes here and there. 

 These buttes are in part of Cretaceous strata, but there are many 

 formed of Permian beds. They are the remnants of layers which 

 were once continuous. The greater part of the area is Permian 

 and the soil is red while the water is alkaline or saline for the rea- 

 son that these beds are inland sea depcsits. 



The Staked Plains cross the line of the Texas and Pacific railway 

 in the neighborhood of jNlarienfeld presenting here a low wall or 




338 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



escarpmeut ; and about fifty miles west of here is another escarp- 

 ment, facing west, which makes the western edge of the Llano Esta- 

 cado. These plains are narrow here, this being the southern angle 

 of the triangle formed by these bounding escarpments. The plains 

 themselves are gently undulating and unscored by erosion. Farther 

 north they are traversed by deep canons, but here almost no drain- 

 age lines are apparent, 



(b) River Valleys Abandoned through Dessication. — A careful 

 study of these plains along the eastern part of the Llano Estacada 

 will reveal some interesting facts, and I believe it is to the drainage 

 lines that we will have to look for a solution of the history of this 

 region. I can do no more than throw out a hint. The streams have 

 carried more water than at present. This may show nothing more 

 than a decrease in rainfall, or it may be the key to a complicated 

 history. 



From the Red Fork of the Colorado River, near Colorado City, 

 to the Pecos, a distance of not less than one hundred and seventy- 

 five miles, there was not, in April, 1890, a single flowing stream, yet 

 the maps show several large branches of the Colorado crossing the 

 line travelled. Three of these in particular, Girard Creek and 

 two branches of the Concho River, are on the map made to rise far 

 up in the Staked Plains. The Concho I crossed without being 

 aware of the fact, for the valley of each branch is a broad valley 

 with gently sloping sides and no channel. This is not a case of 

 " arroyo " type of drainage, that is, a channel which occasionally 

 carries floods. It is an old abandoned valley. 



Girard Creek, which I was able to study more carefully, is of the 

 same type, but less distinctly dessicated, being intermediate in degree 

 of abandonment between the Colorado proper and the Concho. 

 From Big Springs westward for six miles the valley averages a mile 

 in width and is bounded by degraded bluffs from fifty to one hun- 

 dred feet in height. There is no channel, but the valley bottom is 

 a series of alkaline flats of the playa type, between cone deltas 

 formed by the wash from the valley sides. These alluvial cones 

 frequently extend completely across the valley and are overgrown 

 by mesquite, showing quite plainly that no flow of water occurs in 

 the valley. The flats between these cones resemble in appearance 

 the estuarine marshes of the northeastern coast. Below Big Springs 

 the channel is clear, and the drainage is young, being of the strong 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 339 



arroyo type of the arid regions. I am puzzled to know the reasons 

 for these peculiarities. 



(c) ^Eolian Deposits i)i the Pecos Valley. — At the western base of 

 the Staked Plains, along the escarpment of the Pecos Valley there 

 is an extensive teolian deposit about fifteen miles in width. Profes- 

 sor Hill" states that this strip of sand is fully one hundred miles in 

 length, extending up into Eddy County, New Mexico. It is plainly 

 due to the prevailing west winds (as suggested by Hill) which have 

 heaped the sands here at the base of the escarpment. It is the most 

 absolute desert waste I ever chanced to see. Crater-like pits and 

 cones of the sand dune type are here most perfectly developed, and 

 the sparse sand-plant growth serves only partially to keep the sand 

 in place. 



It was my ill-fortune to be obliged to study this deposit quite 

 carefully, for my team Avas unable to carry the loaded wagon over 

 the sandy trail into which the wheels sunk, often to the hub. The 

 difficulties of the trip were increased manifold by the sharp grades 

 caused by the pits and cones, and by the shifting sands. Abandoned 

 wagons proved that I was not the first to find the difficulties of the 

 sandy strip. Being informed of the existence of a ranch a dozen or 

 fifteen miles to the north I started on horseback in search of aid. 

 Mile after mile I travelled in the hot sun with the drifting sand 

 blowing in my face. Everywhere the same scene was before my 

 eyes, the escarpment to the east being my only topographic guide. 

 At last I turned back unsuccessful in my search. My tent was 

 banked up with sand, sand was on everything and in everything. 

 At night the eddies of wind would start whirls of sand within the 

 tent, and cooking was quite out of the question. "With four horses 

 I was barely able to get ray wagon, not a very heavy one, across this 

 strip of sand. 



80 far as I know this deposit is unique in this country in point of 

 size. Blown as it is quite constantly at the face of the escarp- 

 ment it must be a powerful agent of erosion, and it is not impossi- 

 ble that this escarpment owes its present position in large measure 

 to seolian action. The Pecos River is tw'enty-five or thirty miles 

 away and though this was undoubtedly the originator of the escarp- 

 ment, its present position is due to recession, and, I believe, recession 

 brought about in part by the continual blowing of sand at its base. 



29Hill, Am. Geol., Vol. VII, 1891, p. 369. 




340 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



7. — The Trans-Pecos Region. 



(a) Topographic Description. — This is almost a terra incognita. 

 It is in brief a region of mountains and basins, the highest mountains 

 being the Guadalupe Mountains which extend from New Mexico 

 into Texas. This is a faulted monocline, rising to the south, where, 

 at Guadalupe Peak, it has an elevation of fully 8,000 feet above sea 

 level and 3,000 feet above the plateau, being terminated by a sheer 

 precipice 2,000 feet in height. It is a mountain of Carboniferous 

 limestone faulted in the Avestern side. Other mountains are associa- 

 ted with igneous action, but our knowledge of them is extremely 

 limited. 



(i) Erosion in the Guadalupe Mountaiiis^'^ — I introduce here a 

 few notes on the topography of the Guadalupe Mountains taken 

 during a brief sojourn there. The dip of the strata is to the east, 

 gently at the base of the mountains, increasing to an angle of fifteen 

 degrees or thereabout, then becoming nearly horizontal to the west 

 bounding fault beyond which the dip is steeply west. The west 

 dipping rocks, the downthrow of the fault, form the western foot 

 liills. The drainage is chiefly to the east, being consequent on the 

 structure, and therefore long canons enter from the east well up 

 to the western edge of the mountains, and the Avest floAving streams 

 are small and short. 



Of the east flowing streams McKitterick canon is a typical exam- 

 ple. For two miles from its exit from the mountain, this mountain 

 gorge is accessible to wagons, but beyond this travel on foot is possi- 

 ble only Avith difficulty. It is extraordinarily rough, being bounded 

 by precipices and steeply sloping sides rising to a height of fully 

 two thousand feet, and the valley is littered Avith huge bowlders and 

 fragments of the cliff' Avhich have dropped down fiom the valley 

 side. The slope of the valley walls is rarely less than thirty degrees 

 and there are sheer precipices of magnesian limestone rising to a 

 height of from one thousand to eighteen hundred feet. There are 

 several hundred of these precipices and it is only rarely that the 

 mountain top is accessible from the interior gorges. There is no 

 soil on these slopes which are either bare bed rock or bowlder 

 strewn. The vegetation is of the arid type, except in the shaded 

 valleys or well up on the mountain top, Avhere fair sized pines and 

 cedars grow. Snow accumulates in the canons but disappears in 



^ See Bull. 3 Texas Geo!. Survey, 1892, Reconnoissance of the Guadalupe 

 Mountains, by R. S. Tarr. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 341 



early spring, and high up in the mountain rains are frequent during 

 the spring and summer. In nearly all the canons there are ever- 

 flowing springs which furnish a stream of cold water ; but this dis- 

 appears near the exit of the mountain stream and bevond the 

 mountain the valley is a broad bowlder-strewn channel carrying 

 water only spasmodically. A rain in the mountains suddenly fills 

 the channel with a seething torrent, which advances with a solid 

 front like a Avave, and the force of these floods is shown by the large 

 pebbles and small bowlders of the mountain limestone in the stream 

 channel, many miles from the mountain. 



That the valley is being rapidly deepened in the mountain is 

 proved by the occurrence of a cemented conglomerate, a river bed 

 conglomei-ate, clinging to the sides of the canon at an elevation of 

 fifty feet above the present channel. A similar conglomerate is 

 now forming in the channel. Most of the annual erosion is done in 

 a very short period of time, since during most of the year only a 

 small, clear stream of spring water flows for a short distance. Dur- 

 ing the remainder of the year the down cutting is chiefly done by 

 corrosion and this mainly in the upper course. The stream is 

 strongly impregnated with lime, and as it descends and is subjected 

 to evaporation the lime solution becomes supercharged and a tufa- 

 ceous deposit is formed. Thus in the lower two or three miles the 

 stream flows in a cemented pebbly bed while above this it flows 

 chiefly on bed rock in a corroded valley. The tufaceous deposit 

 encloses vegetable remains as well as pebbles. 



Corrosive work is well shown in the hillsides, for the compact 

 limestone is ridged and furrowed into an almost perfect imitation, 

 in miniature, of mountain structure of accentuated topography. 

 So roughened is the surface from this cause that the rock has the 

 feeling to the feet and hands of a slaggy lava flow, and so perfect 

 is this resemblance that the ranchmen compare it with glass and 

 call it porphyry and granite, which led me to expect to find eruptive 

 rocks in the mountains. 



(c) Quaternary Conglomerate. — Along the eastern base of the 

 mountains, extending well out on the [)lateau, is a conglomerate 

 composed of mountain pebbles and often cemented with a tufaceous 

 cement. This deposit is frequently many feet in thickness and 

 rests uuconformably on the Carboniferous. As the source is 

 approached, that is near the mountain base, the fragments become 

 larger and more angular. It has been inferred by some that this 




342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



represents a marine formation of Quaternary age, but Avithout being 

 able to disprove this I would suggest another cause which seems 

 equally possible. It seems to me that this is no more than a gravel 

 slope formed in part from the wash from the mountains, but having 

 chiefly been brought down by the mountain streams and deposited 

 in their channels, which have since been abandoned. Just such 

 deposits are at present found in the broad stream valleys and if they 

 should abandon their course the jjresent stream bed deposits would 

 remain to cap the hill tops when the general level of the region was 

 lowered. 



(c?) Dessicated Quaternary Lakes. — There are in this region many 

 lake basins of Quaternary age. One of these. Crow Flat Valley, I 

 have studied in part. The fiiult scarp of the Guadalupe Mountains 

 and the foot of the hills at its base form the eastern boundary of 

 this lake. The other enclosing walls I have not seen. It is in part 

 a synclinal valley formed by the dragging up of its strata on the 

 east by the Guadalupe fault. The Crow Flat is a level plain, 

 deeply filled with silt, at least forty feet deep, of a very fine quality, 

 and having shore lines and deltas on either side. Its extent I am 

 unable to state even approximately. 



The lake is not quite extinct. It is a catchment basin for a large 

 area and water is found throughout the valley at a depth of from 

 five to forty feet in the lake silts. It is invariably alkaline, fre- 

 quently saline. In the lowest portion of the valley the water comes 

 to the surface in a great salt, marshy area, upon which a crust of 

 salt exists. Alkaline flats and marshy areas are common, and gyp- 

 sum deposits occur iu several places. There is a gypsum stratum 

 quite uniform in extent and in one place a dune-like accumulation 

 of gypsum sand. This is but one of a series of dessicated lake 

 basins in this region, none of which have been studied except in a 

 hurried reconnoissance. 



(e) The Rio Grande and Bio Pecos. — I am unable to say any- 

 thing about the Rio Grande and Pecos Rivers in Texas. Both of 

 these rise in the northern regions, in the mountains, and enter 

 Texas as well defined and overburdened streams. Their Texas 

 tributaries are nearly all of the arid arroyo type, carrying water 

 only in times of heavy rains. Of these two large rivers I have seen 

 only enough to convince me that they have an interesting history, 

 but my knowledge of them is too indefinite to admit of the statement 

 of my suspicions concerning this history. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 343 



S. — AissEN'cE OF Large Lakes in Texas. 



It is a striking fact, that in a State covering an area as great as that 

 •of Texas, there is not a single large lake. Almost every other geo- 

 graphic form is represented, often in great variety, and the climatic 

 ■conditions vary from moist to arid. 



The lagoons of the sea shore near river mouths and in other 

 favorable situations are perhaps the nearest approach to lakes in the 

 state. The young land, as yet hardly land, encloses temporary 

 lakes of saline water, which on the one hand are liable to destruc- 

 tion by the sea, or on the other to be quickly filled by the sediment 

 of the streams. 



The Tertiary and Cretaceous plains have been raised above the 

 sea without sufticient structural features for lake formation. They 

 -consist of gently dipping strata and the lakes, which may have 

 -originally existed in early shallow inequalities, have been long since 

 removed by the establishment of drainage. In the flood plains of 

 the Tertiary district there are lakes of small size, according to Pen- 

 rose who writes^ ^ "lakes are of a very rare occurrence, and are 

 never seen except in river bottoms, where they form muddy lagoons 

 abounding in fish and generally fed by springs. They are often of 

 considerable depth, and are connected with the main river by nar- 

 row channels. " It seems probable that these lagoons are unfilled 

 portions of abandoned river channels. Penrose states that in the 

 Tertiary district he saw but one lake in the uplands, this amounting 

 to little more than a large spring, having a diameter of about two 

 Iiundred yards. 



In central Texas the river erosion has uncovered the Carbonife- 

 rous from beneath the Cretaceous, and the drainage, although super- 

 imposed, is establishing itself without the presence of lakes. In this 

 section, in places where side streams have been held back by the 

 -effort of the main stream to overcome some barrier below, exten.-ive 

 flood plains have been built up in the lower part of the valley of 

 the small stream and here lagoons and oxbow lakes are sometimes 

 found. This is the case in the lower Pecan Bayou and San Saba 

 River, both tributaries to the Colorado. These streams are laked in 

 their lower course by the upbuilding of the flood plain of the Colo- 

 rado due to the retardation in its down-cutting caused by the 

 Silurian barrier. During the dry season all the medium sized 

 •Streams of the semi-arid belt become a chain of lakes of extremely 



^'First Ann. Report, Texas Geol. Survey, L'^89, p. IL 




344 PROCEKDI>'GS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



small size, for the water stands in pools of varying size and trickles 

 from one to another in a tiny stream. These pools are enclosed 

 sometimes by bars and deltas, sometimes by walls of solid rock, the 

 pools themselves being the result of corrosion. 



The elevated plateau region west. of this and east of the Pecos 

 River contains a number of lake basins of sink-hole type, but no 

 water, or at best very little, stands in them. Very probably there 

 are sink-hole basins on the Cretaceous limestone in east central 

 Texas. Still farther west, in the Trans-Pecos region, there are 

 several large lake basins, abandoned either in part or entirely, by 

 dessication. Here lakes of consequent origin, the result of mountain 

 deformation, have existed and will exist again if the conditions of 

 rainfall become favorable. 



Hence it is that Texas contains no large lakes : first, because there 

 are no regions of striking structural features, except one (the older 

 Palteozoic area) in which erosion has long been in progress, and its 

 lakes long since destroyed, and one in a region too dry for the 

 existence of lakes; and secondly, because erosion has tapped the 

 shallow lakes that formerly, no doubt, existed on the new Cretaceous 

 and Tertiary land. Sink holes in limestone regions frequently con- 

 taining small and shallow bodies of water, lagoons on the sea shore, 

 and oxbow lakes in the flood plains, constitute the major part of the 

 Texas lakes. To these might be added the expanded springs, the 

 laked streams caused by the overburdened condition of the main 

 stream (Pecan Bayou and San Saba River tributary to the Colo- 

 rado), and the chain of pools of the sub-hu^iid region, formed by 

 the dessication of the river. The salt lakes, playas and alkaline 

 marshes and flats of the Trans-Pecos region are the dessicated rem- 

 nants of lakes, formerly of greater size, just as the pools are the 

 result of the annual dessication of normally continuous streams. 



9. — Summary. 



The State of Texas is a series of prairies, plains and plateaus, low 

 coastal plains in the east, elevated plateaus in the center, and in the 

 extreme west a plateau broken by mountain ranges. A buried 

 land, now uncovered, forms a central hilly district. In climate the 

 State varies from the moist Gulf coast to the truly arid Trans-Pecos 

 region. 



The evolution of the Texas region began, so far as our present 

 records can show, with an old Pala?ozoic or Pre-Palicozoic mount- 

 ainous land which was denuded at the beginning of Carboniferous 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 345 



times to an old topographic form, not unlike the hilly region of 

 southern New England. The Carboniferous beds were added to 

 this land, by elevation, first as a coastal strip, even before the end of 

 the Carboniferous. A gathering in of shore lines formed a great 

 interior sea, later a completely land-locked dead sea in which Per- 

 mian beds were deposited ; and from the close of the Permian to the 

 beginning of the Cretaceous there was a period of denudation dur- 

 ing which the younger Palaeozoic beds were reduced to base-level 

 and the older mountainous areas still farther degraded. A rapid 

 subsidence lowered the entire region beneath the Cretaceous sea, 

 then at the close of the Cretaceous the land was elevated, possibly 

 by a renewal of the mountain-building forces of the central area. 

 The Rocky Mountain uplift caused an uptilting, raising the land 

 still higher, and adding the Tertiary coastal strip to the Cretaceous. 

 A later uplift added the coastal prairies and a recent slight subsi- 

 dence has completed this record of change, and has given us the 

 Texas region. 



Drainage, established upon the part first raised, has stripped off 

 the Cretaceous covering from a portion of the buried Palaeozoic. 

 The consequent streams reduced this to an approximate base-level, 

 and by the more recent elevations these streams have been rejuve- 

 nated in the older region and have become extended streams in the 

 newer regions, and, in the latter, young consequent streams have 

 also been formed. The entire drainage is consequent, but the streams 

 of the central Palaeozoic are superimposed, and this has given rise to 

 several interesting peculiarities, among others the reaching of a 

 temporary base-level by the Colorado and its tributaries above the 

 Silurian barrier, the consequent degradation of its caiion, and the 

 formation of extensive flood plains. The Colorado through this 

 cause has also lost some of its drainage area, and the tributaries, and 

 the Colorado itself, are adjusting themselves to the revealed structure 

 upon which they are superimposed. 



The climate of western Texas has also become more arid and 

 the effect of this is shown by the dessication of lake basins in the 

 Trans-Pecos region, the abandonment of streams in central west 

 Texas and in the growth of flood plains in the Tertiary forested 

 area. 



23 




346 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY. 



Comstock, T. B. — Preliminary re^iort on the Geology of the 

 Central Mineral Region of Texas. First Ann. Kept., Geol. Survey 

 Texas, 1889, pp. 239-391. 



Comstock, T. B. — Report on the Geology and Mineral Resources 

 of the Central Mineral Region of Texas. Second Ann. Rept., Geol. 

 Survey Texas, 1890, pp. 553-664. 



Curtice, Cooper. — Discussion. — Bull. Geol. Soc. Am., Vol. 2, 

 1890, pp. 527-8. 



Hill, R. T. — Present Condition of Knowledge of the Geology 

 of Texas. Bull. U. S. Geol. Survey, No. 45, 1887, 95 pp. 



Hill, R. T. — The Topographv and Geology of the Cross Timbers, 

 etc. Am. J. Sci., 1887, Vol. 33, pp. 291-303. 



Hill, R. T. — A portion of the Geologic Story of the Colorado 

 River of Texas. Am. Geol., Vol. HI, 1889, pp. 287-299. 



Hill, R. T. — Events in Korth American Cretaceous History, 

 illustrated in the Arkansas-Texas Division of the Southwestern 

 Region of the United States. Am. Journ. Sci., XXXVII, 1889, pp. 

 282-90. 



Hill, R. T. — A Preliminary Annotated Check List of the 

 Cretaceous Invertebrate Fossils of Texas, etc. Bull. 4, Geol. Sur- 

 vey Texas, 1889, pp. I-XXXI. 



Hill, R. T. — A Brief Description of the Cretaceous Rocks of 

 Texas, etc. First Ann. Rept., Geol. Survey Texas, 1889, pp. 105- 

 141. 



Hill, R. T. — Classification and Origin of the Chief Geographic 

 Features of the Texas Region. Am. Geol., V, 1890, pp. 9-29; 

 68-80. 



Hill, R. T. — Pilot Knob: A Marine Cretaceous Volcano, 

 (with notes on its Petrographv by J. F. Kemp). Am. Geol., Vol. 

 VI, 1890, pp. 286-94. 



Hill, R. T. — The Comanche Series of the Texas Arkansas 

 Region. Bull. Geol. Soc. Am., Vol. II, 1891, pp. 503-524. 



Hill, R. T.— .Eolian Deposits of Eddy Couutv. New Mex- 

 ico. Am. Geol., Vol. VII, 1891, p. 369. 



Hill, R. T. — Preliminary notes on the Topography and 

 Geology of Northern Mexico and Southwest Texas and New Mexico. 

 Am. Geol.. Vol. VIII, 1891, pp. 133-141. 



Hill, R. T. and Penrose, R. A. F., Jr.— Relation of the 

 Uppermost Cretaceous Beds of the Eastern and Southern United 

 States. Am. Journ. Sci., XXXVIII, Dec, 1891, pp. 468-73. 



Hill, R. T. — On the Occurence of Artesian, etc.. Waters in Texas, 

 etc. Washington, May, 1892. 



Loughridge, R. H. — Report on the Cotton Production of 

 the State of Texas, etc. Tenth Census, United States, Vol. V, 1884, 

 pp. 658-831. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 347 



Penrose, R. A. F., Jr. — A Preliminary Report on the Geol- 

 ogy of the Gulf Tertiary of Texas, etc. First Ann. Rept., Geol. 

 Survey Texas, 1889, pp. 5-101. 



Penrose, R. A. F., Jr. and Hill, R. T.— Relation of the 

 Uppermost Cretaceous Beds of the Eastern and Southern United 

 States. Am. Journ. Sci., XXXVIII, Dec, 1891, pp. 468-73. 



Shumard, Geo. G. — A Partial Report on the Geology of Western 

 Texas, Austin, Texas, 1886, 145 pp. 



Taff, J. A. — Cretaceous Deposits of Trans-Pecos Texas. Second 

 Ann. Rept., Geol. Survey Texas, 1890, pp. 714-738. 



Tarr, R. S. — Origin of Some of the Topographic Features 

 of Central Texas. Am. Journ. Sci., XXXIX, pp. 306-311. 



Tarr, R. S. — A Preliminary Report on the Coal Fields of 

 the Colorado River. First Ann. Rept., Texas Geol. Survey, 1889, 

 pp. 201-216. 



Tarr, R. S. — The Carboniferous Area of Central Texas. Am. 

 Geol., Vol. VI, 1890, pp. 145-153. 



Tarr, R. S. — Superimposition of the Drainage in Central Texas. 

 Am. Journ. Sci., XL, 1890, pp. 359-62. 



Tarr, R. S. — The Permian of Texas. Am. Journ. Sci., XLIII, 

 1892, pp. 9-12. 



Tarr, R. S. — The Cretaceous Covering of the Texas Palaeo- 

 zoic. Am. Geol., Vol. IX, 1892, pp. 169-178. 



Tarr, R. S. — A Hint with respect to the origin of Terraces in 

 Glaciated Regions. Am. Journ. Sci. XLIV, 1892, pp. 59-61. 



Tarr, R. S. — Reconnoissance of the Guadalupe Mountains. Bull. 

 3, Texas Geol. Survey, 1892. 



Walcott, C. D.— Discussion.— Bull. Geol. Soc. Am., Vol. II, 

 1891, pp. 526-7. 




34s proceedings of the academy of [1893. 



September 5. 

 Geo. H. Horn, M. D., in the chair. 

 Twenty-six persons present. 



September 12. 

 Mr. Charles P. Perot in the chair. 

 Thirty-six persons present. 



A paper entitled "A Tempered Steel Meteorite," by Edw. 

 Goldsmith was presented for publication. 



The death of Prof. John M. Maisch, a member, the 10th inst. 

 was announced. 



September 19. 

 Mr. Charles P. Perot in the chair. 

 Thirty-two persons present. 



September 26. 

 Mr. Charles P. Perot in the chair. 

 Thirty-one persons present. 



A paper entitled " The Odonate Genus Ortholestes," by Philip 

 P. Calvert, Avas presented for publication. 



The death of Henry L. Taggart, a member, the 22nd inst. was 

 announced. 



Julia B. Piatt of Chicago was elected a Correspondent. 

 The following was ordered to be printed : — 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 349 



THE RADIUS OF CURVATURES OF THE CORNEA. 

 BY HENRY C. CHAPMAN, M. D. AND ALBERT P. BRUBAKER, M. D. 



The classification of the sciences has at various times engaged the 

 attention of philosophers. Whether or not the thoughts of students 

 of biology have ever been directed to the mei-its of the classifications, 

 among others, of Bacon,^ Comte,^ Spencer,' the most superfiicial 

 thinker must have been impressed by the fact that whatever be the 

 logical order of the study of the sciences, the progress of any one 

 branch of science has depended largely upon the simultaneous 

 advance made in some closely or even remotely allied branch. 



The influence exerted by the progress of physics upon that of 

 astronomy and biology through the invention of the telescope and 

 microscope respectively, the stimulus to mathematical research exci- 

 ted by astronomical discoveries, the influence of physics upon chem- 

 istry, may be cited as familiar examples. As a special instance 

 of the manner in which the diflerent branches of science are related 

 to each other, it may be mentioned that the method of measuring 

 the radius of curvature of the cornea by mean* of the ophthalmo- 

 meter is essentially the same as that made ase of by astronomers in 

 determining the angle subtended by the apparent diameter of a 

 celestial body by means of the heJiometer. 



Though not perhaps generally known, there was submitted as long 

 ago as 1743 to the Royal Society a communication by Savery, giv- 

 ing an account of his invention of " A new way of measuring the 

 difference between the appareutdiameter of the sun .... with a micro- 

 meter placed in a telescope invented for that purpose." Savery's 

 paper was not, however, published at that time, it having been 

 apparently entirely forgotten by Bradley to whom it was referred. 

 Ten years afterward, during the year 1753, Short having learned 

 that Bouguer had given an account in 1748 to the Academy of 

 Sciences of Paris* of his invention of the heliometer, and wishing to 

 secure for his countryman the credit of the invention, called the 

 attention of the Royal Society, in whose Transactions^ it finally 

 appeared, to the long neglected communication of Savery. 



1 De Augmentis Scientiarum. 

 ^ Cours de Philosophic Positive. 

 •^ Genesis of Science Essays, 1808. 



* Historie de L' Academic Royalc des Sciences a Paiis, MDCCLII, pp. 87, Mem- 

 oires p. 11. 



^ Piiilosopliical Transactions, Vol. XLVIII, p. Kio. 




350 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1893- 



The construction of the heliometer is based upon the fact that while 

 an object appears single (Fig. 1) when viewed through two 

 object glasses of equal focal length placed side by side at the end of 

 a tube provided with a single eye piece, it will appear double 

 (Fig. 2) when the object glasses are displaced. As the two images 

 (Fig. 2) at the focus are separated from each other by a distance 

 equal to the distance of the centres of the object glasses, the dis- 

 placement of the latter as measured by a micrometer screw will give 

 the displacement of the angular diameter, (Fig. 2, 

 c d) of a celestial body. The angle subtended by 

 the apparent diameter of the sun, for example Fig. 

 2, c d, can then be determined by simply bringing 

 the two images of the sun in contact (Fig. 2) and 

 measuring the displacement necessary to accom- 

 plish this by a filar micrometer, the angular value 

 of the revolution of the screw being known. 

 A few years after Bouguer invented his heliometer which Lalande 

 used to determine the diameter of the sun, Dollond substituted for 

 the two object glasses the two halves of one object glass (Fig. 3, A B). 

 By means of this arrangement two images (Fig. 2, a b) are seen as in 

 Bouguer's heliometer, each semi-lens giving 

 an image except when the two serai-lenses 

 are juxtaposed, the two images being then 

 superimposed. By fixing the semi-lens A 

 and making the semi-lens B(Fig. o)slide over 

 it, the image a (Fig. 2) due to the semi-lens 

 A becomes also immovable. The distance 

 through which the semi-lens B (Fig. 3) is 

 moved in order to bring the image b (Fig. 

 2) due to it, in contact tangentially with 

 the image a and equal to the apparent 

 diameter sought, is measured by means of 

 a micrometer screw as in Bouguer's instrument. The value of the 

 angle under which the apparent diameter of the object (Fig 2, c d) 

 is seen can be thus determined. 



In connection with the invention of the heliometer, it is interest- 

 ing as illustrating the influence of the progress of astronomy upon 

 physiology that the Observatory of Kouigsberg, to which Helmholtz 

 was attached as assistant when a young man, possesses one of the 

 finest heliometers ever constructed : that by Fraunhofer. Doubtless 

 this instrument suggested to Helmholtz the invention of the ophthal- 




1893.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 



351 



mometer. It should be mentioned, however, that in the ophthal- 

 mometer as devised by Helmholtz" the two images of the object 

 are produced by means of two glass plates such as were suggested 

 by Clausen to obtain two images of a star. The ophthalmometer 

 as constructed by Meyerstein of Gottingen 

 consists of a small telescope (Fig. 4, T) the 

 objective of which, b, is enclosed within a 

 brass box C, the latter supported upon a 

 tripod and capable of being leveled in all 

 azimuths. The brass box contains two plane 

 parallel glass plates P^ P^ which are situated in 

 front of the objective of the telescope. By 

 means of a screw mechanism the glass plates 

 can be so turned around a common axis that 

 they can be brought either into the same plane 

 (Fig 5) or into two different planes (Fig. 6). 

 The angular deviation produced by the move- 

 ment of the glass plates just referred to can be determined by two 

 graduated wheels which rotate as the glass plates diverge from each 

 other to the one-tenth of a degree, the instrument being provided 

 with a verniei'. 



By means of the ophthalmometer we are enabled to determine 

 the size of the virtual image produced when rays of light emanating 



Mt=tl 



a 



d. 



Fig. 4. 

 from an external object are allowed to fall upon the cornea and, 

 further, as we will show presently, by determining from the size of 

 such corneal image the radius of the curvature of the cornea. The 

 principle by which the size of the corneal image is determined by 

 the ophthalmometer is the same as already mentioned asthat of obtain- 

 ing the apparent diameter of a heavenly body by means of a helio- 

 meter. The only essential difference in the theory of 

 the two instruments is that while in the heliometer 

 one semi-lens alone moves, and moves in the same 

 plane with the other fixed semi-lens, (the displace- 



Fig. 5. 



^Archivfur Ophihalmologie. Uand ], Abth. II, S 1. 




352 



PEOCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1893. 



ment being measured by a micrometer screw), in the ophthalmometer 

 both glass plates move, and move in different planes, the displacement 

 being deduced from the formula 1=2 T sin (a-b) in which a=the 



cos b 

 angular deviation of the glass plates obtained experimentally. 

 Before developing the formula just mentioned and which is indis- 

 pensable for the working of the ophthalmometer let us first consider 

 the paths of such rays of light as, emanating from a luminous 

 object or its reflected image, pass through its two glass plates, the 

 latter making an angle with each other." 



From a consideration of Fig. 7 it will be seen 



^ that as the rays of light from the object a, falling 



upon the glass plate P^ are projected subjectively 



back to a^ those falling upon P- to a^ the object will 



Fig. (i. be consequently seen double as a' a'-. Now if the two 



images a^ a^ are brought into contact with each other tangential ly, 



their total displacement, that is the sum of the displacement of the 



r/ ,» A two images to the right and to the left, 



will be equal to the size of the object. 



That such must be the case becomes 



at once apparent, if the object and 



the two images are round bodies as 



represented in Fig. 8, in which a b is 



the displacement to the right, c d the 



displacement to the left and a d the 



diameter of the object. 



It will be observed that while the 

 total displacement — a b + c d=a d the 

 diameter of the object, the distance 

 c b between the outer edges of the 

 two images is twice a d, or twice the 

 diameter of the object. 



Such being the case it is evident 

 that if we can measure the total dis- 

 placement of the two images of the 

 object when the images are in contact we will then obtain the size of 

 the object. 



Fig. 



' It is unnecessary to say that as long as the two gla<is plates' are in the same 

 plane the luminous object being seen as a single image it is unnecessary to con- 

 sider the paths of the rays of light under these conditions. 




1893.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



353 



Let us consider now the development of the formula, I^^2 T 

 sin (a-b) in which I is the total displacement, T the thickness of 



cos b 

 the glass plates, a the angle of incidence or angular deviation, b the 

 angle of refraction. Let A B C D (Fig. 9,) be one of the glass plates 

 placed in front of the objective of the telescope and a c an incident 



ray emanating from the image 

 of the luminous object whose 

 size is to be determined. Such 

 being the case the ray a c, 

 according to the law of refrac- 

 tion, Avill be bent as c I toward 

 Fig. 8. the perpendicular u K as it 



passes through the glass and away from the perpendicular as 1 1 and 



parallel with a c as it emerges 

 from the glass. The angle 

 a c u will be equal to the angle 

 1 I m, parallel rays falling 

 upon parallel surfaces. Call- 

 ing the angle of incidence a 

 c u, A, and the angle of refrac- 

 tion I c K,B,we will have sin A 

 sin B 

 =iiidex of refractional '524 

 or sin A=sin B, from which 



1-524 

 equation we can obtain the 

 value of B and cos B from 

 •'^'S- 9- trigonometric tables, A being 



obtained by observation. Such being the relation of the ang- 

 les of incidence and refraction the point a to the eye of an 

 observer at 1 would appear to be at b, the glass plate effecting 

 therefore a lateral displacement of the point a to an extent a b 

 which is measured by determining the equal distance c f. 



Inasmuch, however, as c f=c I sin c I f , i t follows that if we can 

 determine c I and sin c I f we will obtain c f or its equal a b. As K c 

 =cl cos B, it follows that cI=K C and as K C=the thick- 

 cos B 




354 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893, 



ness of the glass plates which is 

 kuown, we may call it T and 

 say therefore that CI= T . 



cosB 

 Further the angle clf=h If 

 — h i c, but as h I f = u c a or A, 

 their sides being parallel, and 

 h i e=I c K or B they being 

 alternate angles it follows that 

 sin c I f=sin (A-B). Substitut- 

 ing now these values of c I and 

 sin c I f in the equation c f=c I 

 sin c I f we obtain c f or a b=T 

 sin (A-B). Inasmuch, however, 



cos B 

 as there ai-e two plates in the 

 ophthalmometer and the size of 

 the image is equal to the dis- 

 placement to the left, plus that 

 Fig. 10. to the right, the size of the image 



or I will be equal to 2 a b=2 T sin (A-B) 



cos B 

 As it is essential in the working of the ophthalmometer by means 

 of the formula just developed, that the thickness of its two glass 

 plates as well at their index of refraction should be determined as 

 accurately as possible, the methods by which these contrasts were 

 obtained will be briefly described. 



In determining the thickness of the glass plates a Pfister sphiiro- 

 meter was made use of, the general construction of which is well 

 shown in Fig. 10. The object to be measured in this instance, the 

 glass plate, was placed upon a little table at the top of the screw 

 (not represented in fig.) and the latter elevated until the glass plate 

 came in contact with the knife edge a. The level being then in 

 adjustment, the extent of the separation of the little table and the 

 upper knife edge or the thickness of the glass plates was then 

 obtained by observing the distance through which the screw had 

 descended, as given by the divisions on the scales and on the grad- 

 uated circle, each division of the scale corresponding to 2^ millimeter 

 each division of the circle to 1^7 millimeter. The following resume 

 of 25 determinations of the thickness of each glass plate proves the 

 accuracy of the method made use of: — 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 355 



As the average thickness of the two glass plates is the same, viz. : 

 4"4015 mm., the result is what might have been anticipated since 

 the two glass plates were the halves of one plate. 

 Resume of 25 determinations of the thickness of the rir/ht and left glass 

 plates of the Ophthalmometer by the Spharometer. 



Readings from the Instrument. 



Corrected and reduced. 



^—81 



80 

 81 



80 



81 



R. 



1 error TO 



5 



4 



2 







1 error 1*0 







8 







8 error 0"7 



1 



2 



3 



6 



1 error 0'9 



1 



4 



2 



3 



8 error 0-8 



9 



error 0"8 



4-4015 mm. 4-4015 mm. 

 In determining the index of refraction of the two plates of the 

 ophthalmometer the sphiirometer was also made use of, its applica- 

 tion for this purpose being based upon the principle of the index of 

 refraction being equal to the ratio of the actual thickness to the 

 apparent thickness when viewed normally to the surface. Let us 

 suppose that a number of equidistant, parallel lines ruled upon a 




356 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



glass, e. g. a stage micrometer, be viewed under the microscope and 

 when seen in focus, that a spirit level be placed upon the upper 

 ends of the microscope and of the screw of the sphiirometer, 

 the spirit level of the latter having been temporarily removed. 

 The upper ends of the two instruments being now at the same 

 level, let a reading be taken off the spharometer and, for 

 example, suppose it to be 46'16. Kow place upon the stage micro- 

 meter one of the glass plates of the ophthalmometer, the latter being 

 interposed between the lines and the objective of the microscope. 

 The tube of the microscope must now be elevated in order that the 

 lines may be brought again into focus. The upper end of the micro- 

 scope being now at a higher level than that of the spharometer, the 

 screw of the latter must now be raised until the upper ends of the 

 two instruments are again at the same level and a second reading be 

 taken which we will suppose, for example, to be 43"14. The differ- 

 ence between the two readings, 302=1"510 mm.,^ will be the distance 

 through which the microscojie was elevated in order to see the ruled 

 lines when the plates of the ophthalmometer were interposed between 

 the lines and the microscope. Now if this difference, 1-510 mm., be 



deducted from the thickness of 

 the glass, 4*4015, and the remain- 

 der, 2*8915 mm., be divided into 

 the thickness of the glass, the 

 quotient, 1*5222, according to the 

 principle above enumerated, will 

 be the index of refraction sought. 

 Thus, for example, let Fig. 11, 

 represent the micrometer resting 

 upon the stage of the microscope, 

 A G, the actual thickness of the 

 plate of the ophthalmometer 

 interposed between the lines and 

 the microscope, then according 

 to theory and experiment A G — 

 A B=B G or 4*4015 mm.— 1*510 



Fig. 11. 



* Each division of the scale equals ^ of a millimeter. 



Note. — The methods just described of delermining the thickness of the glass 

 plates of the ophthalmometer and their index of refraciion were suggested to the 

 authors by Professor A. W. Goodspeed of the University of Pennsylvnnia, 

 whose well known experimental skill is a sufficient guarantee of the accuracy of 

 the data submitted and the results obtained. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 357 



mm.— 2'8915, A G=^ index of refraction or 4'4015 mm.= 



BG 2-8915 mm. 



l'5222=index of refraction. 



The average index of refraction as obtained from ten experiments 

 with each plate of the ophthalmometer by the method just described, 

 was 1"5249, as shown by the following resume : — 



Resume of experiments with sphdrometer and microscope to determine 



the value of the index of refraction of the glass plates of the 



ophthalmometer. 



R. L. 



1-5222 1-5276 



1-5222 1-5276 



1-5249 1-5249 



1-5276 1-5249 



1-5276 1-5222 



1-5222 1-5222 



1-5249 1-5276 



1-5276 1-5249 



1-5249 1-5222 



1-5276 1-5222 



1-5252 1-5246 



1-5252 

 1-5246 



2)3-0498 



l-5249=index of refraction. 

 For the sake of simplicity, we have hitherto assumed that the 

 luminous object was single, two images being then seen by means of 

 the ophthalmometer when the glass plates of the latter were made 

 to diverge. In the practical working of the instrument it will be 

 found, however, that if three luminous objects be used, three gas jets 

 for example, placed at right angles to the long axis of the telescope, 

 six images being then perceived, the plates diverging, that it will be 

 easier to determine the displacement of the images than if one be 

 used. The principle involved, however, is the same whether one or 

 three luminous objects be used. This will be made apparent by 

 Fig. 12, in which the distance between the first image and a point 

 midway between the second and third images corresponds to a single 

 image, and 1 C and C 8' to the displacement of the images to the right 




358 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[1893. 



and left respectively. The subject of the experiment upon whose eye 

 the light from the three gas jets falls, sits with the head resting in a 

 frame at a distance of about 90 centimeters from the ophthalmome- 

 ter, and looks directly at the center of the 

 frame supporting the three gas jets. Three 

 corneal images being then perceived by 

 the observer looking through the ophthalmo- 

 meter erect virtual, but reversed as in a look- 

 ing glass, the plates of the ophthalmometer 

 are made to diverge until the image 1' 

 reaches a point just midway between the 

 images 2 and 3. The original images, or 

 the distance between 1 and a point midway 

 between 2 and 3, being then doubled, the 

 angle of deviation of the plates, or A, is 

 then read off. The angle A, so obtained 

 experimentally, being substituted in the 

 formula 1=2 T sin (A-B) the size of the 



cos B 

 image or I is then obtained by calculation 

 as shown by the following example : 



1=2 T sin (A-B) 



cos B 

 A=:32° 48', T=4-4015 mm. Index of refraction=l-5249 

 sin A 

 =index of refraction=r5249 



sin B 



sin 32° 48' 



sin B 



1-5249 

 log sin 32° 48'=9-733765 

 log 1-5249 =0-183241 



log sin B =9-550524 



B =20° 48' 30" 

 A— B=ll° 59' 30" 



log sin (A— B)=9-317582 

 log cos B =9-970707 



log2T 



log I 

 I 



9-346875 

 =0-944631 



=0-291586 

 =1-957 mm. 




1893.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



359 



D 



It has already been incidentally mentioned that the size of 

 the corneal image having been determined, we are enabled 



thereby to deduce 

 the radius of the cur- 

 vature of the cornea. 

 This is accomplished 

 by means of the for- 

 mula d — I : I : : D : 

 R or R =2 D I in 

 •2 d— I 



Fig. 13. which Fig. 13 R is 



the radius .sought, D the variable distance of the luminous 

 object, the three gas jets, from the cornea C, I the size of the corneal 

 images as determined by the ophthalmometer, and d the constant 

 length of the luminous object 480 mm., that is the distance between 

 the first gas jet and a point midway betw^een the second and third 

 gas jets, the latter being separated by a distance of 80 millimeters. 

 The following example will illustrate the manner in which the 

 formula is used : — 



R=2DI 



d— I 

 D=900 mm. d=480 mm. 

 d=480-000 

 1= 1-957 



1=1-957 mm. 



d— 1=478-043 

 2 D=1800- 

 Log 2 D= 3-255273 

 Log I = 0-291506 



3-546779 

 Log (d— I)r=. 2-679467 



Log R == 0-867312 



R = 7'367 mm.==radius of curvature of the cornea. 

 In connection with the formulae just made use of in determining the 

 radius of the curvature of the cornea, it may not be superfluous to call 

 attention to the extent to which the result so obtained will be affec- 

 ted by small errors made in determining the values of T, n, I, D, d, 

 incidental to experimentation. Thus, for example, if an error of 

 0'02 mm. be made in T, the error in n will amount to 0-0002 mm. 

 It is not necessary, therefore, to use the value of the thickness of the 




360 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF " [1893. 



glass plate T beyond the second decimal place, since the value of n, 

 or the index of refraction, cannot be measured beyond the third 

 decimal place. While an error of 2 mm. in the measurment of D 

 will affect R to an extent only of 0"016 mm., the same amount of 

 error in d will affect R as much as the 0*032 mm. An error of 0"02 

 mm. in T will involve only an error of 001 mm. in I, but an error 

 of 0"01 mm. in n will change I by as much as 0"02mm. Finally as 

 an error of 0'02 mm. in I will change the value of R by as much as 

 0"07 mm. it follows that of these different values that of n, or the 

 index of refraction, is the most important, the value of n affecting 

 that of R through I. 



Resume of 50 experiments with the ophthalmometer. 




IV. .c. Arad . X'a I . Sn , Plula . | rW) , 



Plate V. 



Kdwin Sheppard.del. 



■■jrn'.; Ha;ri?*SM,£ l.ith Phila 



("IIAFM.W ON ('inP'l'OnnAXCIlIS 





I'mc-.Mml Nal SriPlulu. |a!)3 



CHAPMAN OX CRYP'roUH.WCIiUS. 





;V»d.Nal.Sci.Plula.U10.1 



fiiAPiMAX ON frAT'TcnjnAXcuirs^ 





Proc.Acad.Nat.Sci.Phila.1893. 



Plate VIII. 



i^^nni 



M 



A 1 2 4 



5 6 



,/J 13 



^ 



<f^ 



12 



10 



3 4. 



5 6 7 



flffl ®0^^^' 



u in 



1 4 5 



5 6 7 



tf^ 



l?f 



30 mi^j^ ^ 



E r^ 4 5 6 



F 1 34 



Edwin .bT-ieppard, del . OecS Harris ftScns t.ithPhiU 



STERKI CWVALLONIA. 





1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361 



7-962 

 7-678 

 7-448 

 7-436 

 7-441 

 8-190 

 7-180 

 8-166 

 7-336 

 7-799 

 7-012 

 7-637 

 7-399 

 7-384 

 7-596 

 7-519 

 . 7-361 

 7-421 

 7-433 

 7-743 

 7-405 

 7-345 

 7-572 

 7-543 



797 377-580=7-552 



50 50 50 



From the above resume it will be observed that, on the average in 

 young men at least, the radius of curvature of the cornea amounts 

 in the horizontal meridian to 7-797 mm., in the vertical meridian to 

 7-552 mm. 



In conclusion it should be mentioned that the importance of deter- 

 ming the radius of curvature of the cornea, depends upon the fact 

 that its value, together with that of the indices of refraction of the 

 various refractive media of the eye, constitute the experimental data 

 for determining the cardinal points of the eye. By means of the 

 latter, the paths of the rays of light })assing through the media of 

 the eye, the position and size of the retinal images, etc., can be con- 

 structed or calculated, data indispensable to the comprehension of 

 vision and tlie practice of ophthalmology. 

 24 




362 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



October 3. 

 Mr. John H. Redfield in the chair. 

 Thirty-two persons j^resent. 



Papers entitled as follows were presented for publication: — 

 "On a Collection of Batrachia and Reptilia from South West 



Missouri," by E. D. Cope. 



"On the Batrachia and Reptilia of the Plains at Latitude 36** 



30'," by E. D. Cope. 



October 10. 

 Rev. H. C. McCooK, D. D., Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Thirty members present. 



Additions to a paper entitled, " New and little known Paleozoic 

 and Jurassic Fishes," by E. D. Cope, was presented for publication 

 in the Journal. 



October 17. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 

 Thirty-eight persons present. 



A paper entitled, "On Cyphornis, an extinct Genus of Birds," 

 by E. D. Cope was presented for publication. 



The Publication Committee reported in favor of publishing an 

 addition to a paper entitled "New and little known Paleozoic and 

 Jurassic Fishes," by E. D. Cope in the Journal. 



October 24. 

 Mr. Charles P. Perot in the chair. 

 Thirty-seven persons present. 

 The death of Charles Hacker, a member, was announced. 



October 31. 



The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 

 Thirty-seven persons present. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 363 



A paper entitled " Notes on some Snakes from Tropical America 

 lately living in the Collection of the Zoological Society of Phila- 

 delphia," by Arthur E. Brown. 



The Publication Committee reported in favor of publishing a 

 paper entitled " On Cyphornis, an extinct genus of Birds," by 

 E. D. Cope, in the Journal. 



The following were ordered to be printed: — 




364 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



NEW NORTH AMERICAN MYXOMYCETES. 

 BY GEO. A. REX, M. D. 



The Myxoraycetes described in this paper are in part new and 

 hitherto undescribed species, and in part well marked and stable 

 varieties of existing species. 



OpMotheca wrightii B. &C. var. stipitata n. var. 



Sporangia stipitate, reniform, globose or ellipsoidal ; stipes vari- 

 able iu height, sometimes mere plasmodic thickenings of the bases of 

 the sporangia, sometimes attaining through intermediate grades a 

 height of '5 mm., slightly tapering from below upward, of medium 

 thickness, black, and granulose or occasionally rugose on the surface ; 

 capillitium deep yellow, freely branched and combined to form a 

 long loosely meshed net ; threads provided with scattered short, 

 sharp and either straight or slightly curved spines; spores yellow, 

 10-12,7. in diameter delicately spinulose. 



Fairmount Park, Philadelphia, Pa. (Harold Wingate.) 



This very unusual and interesting variety is probably the first 

 recorded instance of a stipitate species occurring in the Perichoenacese. 



It differs from the typical form of the species in the presence of 

 stipes, in the closer meshes of the net of the capillitium, and in the 

 shorter spines on the threads of the cai)illitium. 



The sporangia, however, excejoting the stipes, are similar in every 

 respect to the globose and reniform sporangia of the ordinary sessile 

 form. 

 Arcyria magna n. sp. 



Sporangia shortly stipitate, densely aggregated, growing either in 

 small clusters or in large effused masses many square inches in area; 

 individual sporangium elongated, cylindrical, tapering toward the 

 end, evanescent above with a small, pale yellowish-gray, funnel- 

 shaped permanent base or calyculus ; inner surface of calyculus 

 smooth, except very rarely a few scattered spinules are found under 

 high amplification ; stipes one mm. in height, tubular, the cavity 

 being filled with rounded plasmodic masses; capillitium much 

 elongated, about 12 mm. in length relaxed, drooping, tawny gray or 

 drab in color, attached slightly by a few threads to the bottom of the 

 calyculus, and forming a loose large-meshed network ; threads of 

 capillitium cylindrical, of uniform thickness, coarsely sculptured 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 365 



with mingled lialf riugs and blunt spines. Spores dull gray (not 

 cinereous) in mass, colorless with reflected light, 7'5 to 8,a in 

 diameter ; epispores very thin showing under a high amplification 

 from 10-12 isolated irregularly scattered hemispherical papillse. 



A. magna var. rosea. 



Capillitiuni equally long as in the previous form, but less robust 

 in habit and more cylindric in shape: color of capillitium and 

 spores bright rose-red when recent ; sculpturing of spores and 

 capillitium like that of the previous form ; calyculus smooth ; spores 

 7'5,a in diameter. 



Fairmount Park, Philadelphia, Pa. 



The association of these two forms under one specific head is 

 justified by the history of the species considered in connection with 

 the fact of the essential accordance of the characters of the two forms 

 in their totalit}'. 



The robust gray form was first found by the writer, growing 

 separately. A few days later it was found again on the same log 

 with clusters of the red form growing beside it. One month later in 

 another locality about a mile from the first, an extraordinarily large 

 growth of the gray form in large effused masses was found by Mr. 

 H. Wingate, also associated in a similar manner with clusters of the 

 red variety. In neither instance was there any intergradiug of 

 colors, nor did any of the clusters contain individuals of both colors- 

 AVhile these parallel histories might be considered as mere coinci- 

 dences, the correspondence of all the essential specific characters of 

 the two forms has led the writer to the belief of their specific connec- 

 tion at least, although not necessarily of their development from the 

 same plasmodiura. 



This species is allied to A. mdans in the relaxed elongated capil- 

 litium, bi\t differs from it in the sculpturing of the capillitium and 

 calyculus. The capillitium-threads lack the minute vein-like retic- 

 ulation which covers the interspaces between the coarser half rings 

 and spines in A. nutans. 



The calyculus of the red form is absolutely smooth except the lon- 

 gitudinal plications common to the eu-arcyrirc. In the gray form it 

 is practically smooth, there being but a few isolated spinules on its 

 inner surface. In A. nutans, however, the inner surface of the 

 calyculus is covered with an exquisitely beautiful sculptured reticula- 

 tion, coarse and venose below but grading above into a fine net with 

 polyhedral meshes sometimes having spinous prolongations project- 

 ing inwardly from the intersections. 




366 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



The peculiar spore wartiug of ^. magna can be found with a high 

 degree of amplification in A. punicea, A. nutans and several other 

 species of the eu-arcyrise. It may practically be considered the type 

 of the spore-sculpturing of that section of the genus. 



Trichia pulchella n. sp. 



Sporangia substipitate or sessile with a narrow base, globose, 

 averaging "B mm. in diameter, bright vitelline yellow, growing either 

 singly or in small scattered clumps containing but few sporangia, 

 but not upon a common hypothallus; sporangium-wall clear, trans- 

 lucent, rupturing irregularly at the top ; capillitium and spores 

 vitelline yellow in mass; capillitium composed of cylindrical 

 threads 3'5-4*5/j'. in diameter, terminating in pointed ends from one 

 to one and one half times the diameter of the thread in length ; 

 spirals three to four in number, winding more or less irregularly ; 

 interspiral filaments absent or very rudimentary ; threads occasion- 

 ally branched and having occasionally bulbous expansions in their 

 course; spores 11 to 12o// in diameter; epispores provided with a 

 sculptured reticulation composed of very narrow rounded thread-like 

 raised bands combined into more or less broken polygons numbering 

 from five to seven to the entire epispore. 



Adirondack Alts., N. Y.— Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia, Pa. 



This species is allied to the group of Trichias of which T. chryso- 

 spernia inay be said to be the central form. It differs from them all 

 however, in the solitary or individual habit of growth of the spor- 

 angia, which are not developed on a common hypothallus, and in 

 the absence of interspiral ridges even under high amplification. 



The very delicate thread-like character of the reticulations of the 

 epispores is remarkable. The threads forming the sides of the 

 polygons are sometimes simple, sometimes zigzag or broken in out- 

 line enclosing minute rhombic interspaces, or sometimes marked by 

 a row of rudimentary pits like those often found in the epispores of 

 T. chrysos2)erma. The spores of the two gatherings from which the 

 species is described are identical, but the capillitium varies, being 

 more bulbous and irregular in one gathering than in the other, due 

 to the fact that it was developed in colder weather. In neither of 

 the specimens could the sporangia be said to be stipitate, but the 

 character of the dark plasmodic bases of the few subsessile sporangia, 

 warrants the belief that under specially favorable conditions, stipit- 

 ate sporangia may be developed analogous to those of the neighbor- 

 ing species T. varia, var. nigripes. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 367 



Comatriclia typMna Roth. var. heterospora n. var. 



Sporangia stipitate, cylindrical with rounded apex, or expanded 

 above and terminating in a point curved to one side, about 2 mm. 

 in height including stipes ; sporangium-wall evanescent ; capillitium 

 composed of slender, sinuous threads arising from the columella, 

 branched many times at irregular intervals and joined together 

 forming a dense tangled network extending to the surface ; spores 

 purple-brown in mass when recent, fading in time, 5-6,a in diameter ; 

 epispore sculpturing complex and only evident with high amplifica- 

 tion, consisting of about 10 to 12 dark violet colored hemispherical 

 papillae irregularly scattered over the surface between which may 

 be found a delicate reticulation of narrow raised bands forming 

 rhombic or irregular quadrilateral meshes. 



New York, Pennsylvania, Virginia, North Carolina. 



As this variety is seen in the herbarium, it resembles closely the 

 usual form of C. tijphlna. There are however, well marked and 

 positive differences. The capillitium is more slender and forms a 

 denser network which is branched and combined to the veiy surface, 

 giving the impression, without a close examination, of a parallel 

 peripheral network. It is generally found also in small isolated 

 clumps containing but a few closely aggregated individuals. In the 

 spores of the typical form the larger scattered papillae are also found 

 but the intervening spore surface is not reticulated but very minutely 

 verruculose. 



This variety is not a mere sport or temporary variation, but 

 occurs frequently and is constant in character, so that an observer 

 familiar with it can always identify it in the field without difficulty. 

 The spore sculpturing, however, is so evidently an evolution from 

 that of the regular form of the species, that it seems to be entitled 

 only to varietal distinction. 



Diachaea thomasii. Proceedings of Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1892, p. 329. 



Plasmodium ochre yellow, immature sporangia pure white, mature 

 sporangia metallic, either silvery or gold-bronze in lustre, sometimes 

 iridescent, 2 to f of a mm. in diameter, scattered or grouped in 

 clusters, stipitate or sessile, globose when stipitate but flattened at 

 the base when sessile; stipes variable, usually short but sometimes t 

 of mm. in height, thick, rugose, dull ochre yellow containing lime ; 

 columella ochre-yellow, rough, penetrating from 1 to I the height of 

 the sporangium, varying in shape from bluntly conical to cylindrical 

 or cylindric-clavate, containing minute round or oblong ochre 




368 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



colored granules of lime ; spores pale brown 11-12,'j. in diameter; 

 epispores sparsely covered with minute papillse interspersed with a 

 variable number of from four to eight large irregular dark violet 

 papillae apparently, which are resolved by sufficiently high ampli- 

 fication into dense clusters of from five to eight closely aggregated 

 small papillte ; capillitium sparse, brown-violet in color, composed of 

 rigid, straight, tapering threads arising from the columella and base 

 of the sporangium, joined by a few lateral branches in the middle 

 and near the ends into a loose open network ; threads 3-7// in thick- 

 ness at the basal point of attachment, tapering to a point at their 

 attachment to the sporangium-wall ; hypothallus variable, usually 

 membranous with scattex'ed deposits of ochre-colored lime granules, 

 but thick and crustaceous with lime when the sporangia are sessile. 



Mitchell Co., North Carolina (Lancaster Thomas.) 



This species and the two other distinctively North American 

 species D. splendens Pk. and D. subsessilis Pk. are characterized by 

 peculiarly specialized spore sculpturings, which would sufficiently 

 serve to distinguish them from the cosmopolitan species D. leiicopoda, 

 even if their general characters were not equally well marked. 



The spore markings of D. thomnsil as given above, differ greatly 

 from the others. 



In D. splendens the epispores are studded with irregularly scattered, 

 long, projecting columnar processes which are truncate or flat at the 

 end, not spinose or rounded. These are sometimes joined at various 

 angles forming elongated or angular bars. 



In D. subsessilis th6 epispores are marked Avith diffusely branched 

 rows of minute dark bead-like papillae ranged side by side in a 

 moniliform manner, sometimes terminating in free ends, sometimes 

 running in a zig-zag irregular manner, but usually combined into a 

 loose reticulation with large irregular meshes. 



The epispores of D. leiicopoda are delicately warted in a uniform 

 manner, like those of many species of the Calcareie and Stemonit- 

 ace^e. 



Chondrioderma roanense n. sp. 



Sporangia stipitate, discoidal, either circular or irregularly 

 elliptical in outline, thin, flattened or slightly convex above, plane 

 or plano-concave below, about one mm. in diameter when circular, 

 or one by one-half mm. when elongated; upper surface of sporangia 

 mottled, presenting the appearance of large irregular spots of dark 

 umber joined by narrow bands of a paler brown color ; under sur- 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 369 



face dark umber shad iug to black in the center; sporangium-wall 

 smooth, brittle, rupturing irregularly, basal fragments more or less 

 permanently reflexed, apparently double, or at least composed of 

 two easily separable layers ; outer layer umber, mottled, colored by 

 the innate granules of lime, inner layer pure white throughout 

 except a narrow ring of pale umber brown around the columella, 

 inner surface pitted with numerous minute indentations as with a 

 needle point; columella flat, discoidal '5 mm. in width, pale ochra- 

 ceous color on surface; capillitium sparse, white or colorless 

 composed of simple rarely forked sinuous threads, occasionally 

 joined by lateral branches, attached below to the columella and 

 adjoining portion of the basal sporangium-wall and above to the 

 upper sporangium-wall; stipes variable, sometimes scarcely evident, 

 sometimes one mm. high, black, longitudinally ridged, more or less 

 flattened laterally according as the sporangium is elliptical or 

 circular; spores dark violet 12-1 4/* in diameter, epispores thick, 

 distinctly warted with sufficient amplification. 



Roan Mt., Tennessee. 



The affinities of this species are with the section of the genus 

 represented by C. radlatum. It ditfers from the other discoidal or 

 orbicular sj^ecies in its dark chestnut umber color, its well marked 

 discoidal columella and jet black irregular stipe. 



Chondrioderma rugosum n. sp. 



Plasmodium gray ; sporangia grayish or dusky white becoming 

 brownish at the margin of the base, shading into chestnut-brown 

 around the point of insertion of the stipe; sporangia stipitate, nearly 

 hemispherical, flattened and slightly umbilicate at the base, 2 to f 

 mm. in diameter at the base ; sporangium-wall single, papyraceous, 

 much wrinkled or traversed by ridges which mark the lines of 

 rupture and dehiscence and are combined so as to divide the wall 

 into twenty-five to thirty shallow irregularly polyhedral portions 

 which fidl away on the scattering of the spores ; stipes subulate, lon- 

 gitudinally rugose, brownish-black becoming brown above, one-half 

 to two-thirds of a mm. in height; columella chalky or yellowish- 

 white, clavate, much roughened in the upper portion, penetrating to 

 one half the height of the sporangium ; capillitium white or color- 

 less, composed of simple tubules freely forked and combined by 

 lateral branches into a loose network attached to the columella and 

 basal wall of sporangium below and the upper sporangium-wall 

 above; spores 10// in diameter, warted, violet-brown in color. 




370 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1893. 



Cranberry, North Carolina (Lancaster Thomas.) 



This species is also allied to C. radiatum. The ridges which cause 

 the peculiar shrivelled appearance of the surface of the sporangia are 

 not the result of the drying of immature sporangia, but are pres- 

 ent in all cases. They are morphological in character, their loca- 

 tion being indicated by grayish lines on the chalky white surface of 

 the immature sporangia from a very early period of their develop" 

 ment while they are still in a soft and plump condition. 



Craterium rubescens n. sp. 



Sporangia stipitate, about one mm. high including stipe, cylin- 

 droid or elongated cyatbiform, apex convex; sporangium-wall single, 

 dark violet-red, smooth except at the upper portion which is 

 slightly roughened by an external deposit of scattered lime 

 granules of a pale lilac color; lower third of wall ridged longi- 

 tudinally ; on spore dehiscence the apex falls away separating 

 by an irregular line in a circumscissile manner; stipe violet- 

 black, one-half the height of the sporangium, wrinkled longitu- 

 dinally, the ridgesbeingcontiuuous with those upon the sporangium ; 

 capillitium composed of an irregular, branched central mass of 

 violet-red lime granules, the branches connected with the sporangium- 

 wall either directly or by a scanty network of delicate colorless 

 tubules with long angular knots of red lime granules at the 

 nodes ; spores 7'0-S'0,'j. in diameter, brown-violet, epispores thick, 

 minutely warted with dark violet warts. 



Louisiana (A. B. Langlois, com. J. B. Ellis.) 



This species is allied to both C. aureum and C. leucocephalum, 

 more especially in their elongated and cylindroid forms. It is 

 distinguished from them by the Badhamia-like character of the 

 capillitium and by the color which exhibits some shade or tone of 

 red or violet-red in every part of its structure. The color of the 

 sporangium-wall is due largely to the violet-red innate lime granules 

 which it contains. 

 Craterium concinnum n. sp. 



Sporangia usually minute, stipitate, broadly funnel shaped, one- 

 half to two-thirds of a mm. in height including stipe, and one-fifth 

 to one-half of a mm. wide at the top, dehiscing by a regular cap or 

 operculum ; color variable, sometimes light or dark umber uniformly 

 diffused over the entire sporangium, sometimes dark brown on the 

 lower half of the sporangium, abruptly shading into brownish-white 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 371 



in the upper half, operculum brownish-white, darkest in the center ; 

 operculum always more or less convex, rarely approaching a hemi- 

 spherical shape; sporangium-wall smooth, simple, variously colored 

 by the innate lime granules ; stipe equalling the sporangium in length, 

 dark brown, longitudinally ridged; capillitium composed of a close 

 meshed, all-sided network with small rounded or slightly angular 

 nodal masses of ochre brown lime granules, averaging about 25-30m 

 in diameter; no true columella, but the central nodes larger than 

 the others; spores Q-lO/Jt, brown, delicately warted. 



Fairmount Park, Philadelphia, Pa. 



This species differs from the various forms of Craterium vulgare to 

 which it is most nearly allied, by its habit of growth, its generally 

 different shape, its convex operculum and especially by the very 

 different capillitium with its minute nodes which are invariably of a 

 dull brownish-ochre color. Like Lachnoholus globosus with which 

 this species is frequently associated, it is usually found upon chestnut 

 burs lying upon the grouud in moist places. 

 Physarum variabile n. sp. 



Sporangia scattered, stipitate, substipitate or sessile, about one 

 mm. high ; regularly or irregularly globose, ellipsoidal, obovate or 

 cvlindric-clavate in shape ; sporangium-wall sometimes apparently 

 thick, of a dingy yellow or brownish-ochre color, slightly rugulose 

 on surface, crustaceous, brittle, rupturing irregularly, sometimes thin, 

 translucent covered externally with flat circular lime masses falling 

 away in patches; stipes nearly equal, occasionally much expanded 

 at the base, rough, longitudinally rugose, variable in size, some- 

 times one-third of a mm. high, sometimes a mere plasmodic 

 thickening of the base of the sporangium; color of stipes varying 

 from a yellowish-white to a dull brownish-gray ; capillitium a small 

 meshed network of delicate colorless tubules with large many angled 

 rounded masses of white or rarely yellowish-white lime granules at 

 the nodes; no true columella but often a central irregular mass of 

 white lime granules ; spores dark violet-brown, verruculose 9-10/^ 

 in diameter. 



Adirondack Mts., New York. 



A comparison of several gatherings of this species shows a great 

 diversity of forms, the most curious of which is the erect, subsessile 

 cylindroid form. Nevertheless the essential characters are the 

 game in all, making them referable to one species. The crustaceous 

 semi-glazed sporangium-wall and similar capillitium ally this species 




372 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



to P. citrinellum Pk. most nearly. It differs from the various forms 

 of P. sehumaeherl Rost. in the absence of a columella. 



Badhamia orbiculata n. sp. 



Sporangia stipitate or sessile, orbicular, discoidal, irregularly 

 elongated or plasmodiocarpous ; averaging about one mm. when 

 simple but of larger size Avhen plasmodiocarpous ; when stipitate 

 flattened or depressed above and plane or slightly umbilicate below ; 

 sporangium-wall single, more or less translucent from the varying 

 number of innate lime granules ; external surface sometimes covered 

 with scattered flat circular masses of lime granules, gray in color 

 except a small area about the attachment of the stipe which is dark 

 brown ; inner surface also gray except an area of brown becoming 

 brown-black in the center of the base ; stipes short, 'Smm. high, deep 

 black, rough, ridged longitudinally ; capillitium composed of an 

 irregular central network of tubules containing Avhite lime granules, 

 attached above and below by slender straight sometimes forked 

 tubules, to the sporangium-wall ; spores 14-16// in diameter, dark 

 brown, warted under high amplification. 



Fairmount Park, Philadelphia, Pa. — Nebraska (H. AVebber) Ohio 

 (A. P. Morgan.) 



The discoidal character of the simple sporangia of this species is 

 constant and there is but rarely, in any form, any noticeable degree 

 of convexity of the upper surface; on the contrary some sporangia 

 exhibit a somewhat double concave surface, the upper and lower 

 walls nearly coalescing in the center. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHII-ADELPHIA. 373 



A TEMPERED STEEL METEOKITE. 

 BY E. GOLDSMITH. 



Among the many objects brought to Philadelphia by the Peary 

 Expedition to Greenland in 1891 was a meteorite weighing about 267 

 pounds. It was found by Professor Angelo Heilprin near Godhaven, 

 Disco Island. The mass is somewhat pear-shaped and irregularly 

 pitted. When received at the Academy it appeared to be solid and 

 devoid of cracks or any signs of distintegration. This condition soon 

 changed. The mass increased in volume, cracked, and began falling 

 to pieces, apparently remaining dry during these changes. No drops 

 of moisture or chloride of iron could be detected. 



The assumption that the crumbling was due to oxidation was based 

 on the fact of the existence of a higher temperature and a greater 

 quantity of ozone in our latitude than in that of Greenland. 



Professor Heilprin presented to me for examination some of the 

 pieces which had separated from the mass. They were dull and 

 gave evidence of oxidation. A little hammering sufficed to separate 

 the substance into granules and powder, the distinction between them 

 being marked. The granules are hard, metallic and tough, whilst 

 the powder is capable of reduction to any degree of fineness. The 

 separation, howevei% was not perfect, as the granules retained some 

 oxide and the black powder included some of the finely divided 

 particles of the metal. An attempt to separate the metal from the 

 oxide with a bar magnet was unsuccessful because the whole mass 

 was practically magnetic. 



A determination of the separated quantities revealed: Granules 

 =73'8%, Powder:^26"2%. Specific gravity of the granules=^6'14 ; 

 that of the powder=4.73. 



A portion of the specimen was reserved for grinding and etching; 

 the process involved considerable difficulty because of the extreme 

 hardness of the mass. The rotating stone, driven l)y a belt, appeared 

 to be soft and powerless to reduce the meteorite, but by adding sand 

 to the wet stone I succeeded, after hours of patient labor, in producing 

 a plane surface. Further grinding with coarse and fine corundum 

 and polishing with rouge produced a surface on which the etching 

 would reveal its terrestial or celestial origin. A new three edged saw- 

 file was blunted by the first contact with the mass and no filings 

 could be secured. Upon passing a sharp edge of the mass over a 




374 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



plate of soft iron it made an impression alike visible to the eye and 

 sensible to the touch. These three physical proofs would seem to 

 warrant calling the object a tempered steel meteorite. 



How the metal became tempered can only be explained hypothe- 

 tically. Meteorites, in their passage through the atmosphere, become 

 red-hot and if they fall into a pool of water or a deposit of snow or 

 ice they are quickly cooled. Should the chemical composition be 

 such as to form steel, the mass, under such conditions, becomes 

 hardened. On heating one of the granules to redness and allowing 

 it to cool slowly, its softness under the file-test conclusively demon- 

 strated that natural steel is similar to the artificial product. 

 The sharp-edged steel tool of a planing machine would doubtless 

 have been broken by contact with the hard mass while in motion. 



The extreme hardness might be sujiposed to indicate the presence 

 of diamonds, but that mineral is never found in any of these suspected 

 meteorites. The Widmanstatian figures are small, as might be 

 expected when we consider the quick cooling ; only small crystals 

 forming under such circumstances. 



Upon magnifying the figures about twenty diameters, by 

 reflected light, the rectangular figures of the cube forming at times 

 rod-shaped elongations and also triangular outlines of the octahe- 

 dron, sometimes with sharply defined cleavage lines, were observed 

 together with very acute triangles, which may belong to the tetra- 

 hexahedron. 



A second surface on the same specimen, nearly at right angles to 

 the first, was ground with greater ease on a corundum wheel running 

 at great speed in order to determine whether the crystallization could 

 be recognized to better advantage, but without result, as the second 

 surface was no better than the first. That the structure might be 

 presented to better advantage, the polished, etched surface was 

 magnified about three diameters and photographed. (Plate IX, fig. 

 1). The lines, although faint, are apparent and, generally, the 

 angular outlines of crystal forms can be easily traced. The half 

 tones in the picture are the portions of the surface eaten out by the 

 nitric acid. The shining surfaces are the reflections of the nickel 

 steel and the dark pits are the crude untouched material. Cleavage 

 lines predominate throughout the whole surface. A few of the 

 regular outlines were drawn and appear in figure 2. The most 

 common outline appears in figure 4. The dark crystalline figure 

 was etched out by the acid treatment, as was also the larger dark 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 375 



spot with peculiar markings within. Tlie straight lines which cross 

 each other are cleavages and have, in all probability, a structural 

 meaning. If we focus into the deep pits of the specimen, crystalline 

 bodies appear, of which a few have been drawn, (figure 3). These 

 solid crystals, sometimes show a pale yellow color and may be 

 troilite; some, however, have a deep blue tint, similar to the thin 

 coat of oxide produced on heating iron or steel much below 

 redness. 



The microscopic investigation, which could be n)ade only by 

 reflected light, revealed some additional points. The mass is so very 

 cellular and the cells, if the term be allowed, so close together as to 

 require magnifying power in studying them. The quasi cells are 

 filled out with the other material, thus constituting the whole mass. 

 It is not difficult to recognize the faint brass (or yellow) colored 

 troilite and the jet-black magnetite, the latter sometimes filling cells 

 having a distinct crystalline contour as shown in figure 4. 



The nickel is probably not evenly divided through the whole of 

 the metallic mass, as part of the metal is readily affected by the 

 nitric acid, while the rest is not. The tempered steel meteorite is, 

 therefore, not homogeneous but highly compound. 



Results were obtained by the qualitative chemical analysis show- 

 ing conclusively the distinct difference between the granules and the 

 separated dark powder. The former contains a sulphuret, probably 

 troilite ; the latter contains no sulphuret but, instead, a sulphate. 



Iron, nickel, sulphur, traces of carbon, chlorine, phosphorus and 

 chromium were found; also a silicate in which were recognized lime 

 and magnesia. Copper and cobalt were searched for, but in vain_ 

 This leads me to direct attention to the Disco Island terrestial iron, 

 in which, according to Professor A. E. Nordenskiold and J. L. 

 Smith, are found copper, cobalt, phosphorus and comparatively 

 large quantities of carbon, differences too great to be overlooked 

 in comparing analytical work. 

 Composition of the granules : 



Iron .... 86"66 per cent. 



Nickel .... 2-32 per cent. 



Sulphur .... 0'19 per cent. 



X Silicate . . . 4'41 per cent. 



Oxygen . . . 642 per cent. 



If the sulphur is combined with iron to form troilite and the oxygen 

 to form magnetite we have : 




376 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Iron .... 66'79 per cent. 



Nickel .... 2-82 per cent. 



Troilite (fe S) . . 0-52 per cent. 



Magnetite (fe, 0^) . . 25'96 per cent. 



X Silicate . . . 4'41 per cent. 

 Composition of the separated magnetic powder : 



Iron . . . . 68*18 per cent. 



Nickel . . . . O'ol per cent. 



Sulphuric anhydrite . 1-75 per cent. 



Water .... 3-43 per cent. 



X Silicate . . . lOiO per cent. 



Oxygen . . . 16'23 per cent. 

 According to well known theoretical affinities we may expect the 

 mixture to be : 



Iron .... 25-58 per cent. 



Nickel . . . . 0'31 per cent. 



Magnetite (fcg OJ . . 5630 per cent. 

 Magnetic sulphate (fe^O^, 2 SO3) 4'28 per cent. 



X Silicate . . . lO'lO per cent. 



Water .... 3'43 per cent. 



As long as there is any troilite in the mass a further oxidation 

 and disintegration may be expected. The cellular structure of this 

 steel meteorite seems to permit of such a process continuously. 



My statement regarding the magnetic sulphate of iron, is made 

 because, first: the whole of the powder is magnetic, whilst the basic 

 sulphate of iron is not ; and, secondly : when I tried to compute it as 

 basic ferric sulphate I invariably obtained a numerical result whose 

 aggregate was 1*05% too high. When regarding it as magnetic 

 ferric sulphate no such discrepancy occurred. 



My thanks are due to Professor xVngelo Heilprin for the opportu- 

 nity of investigating the first tempered steel meteorite. 



Explanation of Plate IX. 



Fig. 1. Photographic projection of the polished and etched 

 surface of the hard steel meteorite magnified about three diameters. 



Fig. 2. Cubic and octahedral forms. 



Fig. 3. Solid crystal forms as seen in the pits of the specimen. 



Fig. 4. One of the many irregular outlined forms ; the crossed 

 lines represent the cleavages. 



Figs. 2, 3 and 4 are magnified about twenty diameters. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 377 



THE ODONATE GENUS ORTHOLESTES. 

 BY PHILIP P. CALVERT. 



In Entomological News for December, 1891 (Vol. II, p. 199), I 

 briefly described an Odonate from Jamaica as Ortholedes clara 

 new genus and species, and added that a detailed description would 

 appear later. The present paper is a fulfillment of that promise. 

 Since then I have seen two additional specimens of 0. clara and 

 have f )und a new species, 0. ahhoitl, from Hayti. OrtJiolestes is an 

 Agriouine of the legion Lestes Selys. 



Generic Characters. — (1) Wings ceasing to be petioled about as 

 far in front of the basal post costal cross vein as the latter is long. 



(2) Median sector separating from the principal at less than one- 

 third the distance from the arculus to the nodus, the subnodal aris- 

 ing one cell after the median. 



(3) Quadrilateral distinctly trapezoidal, superior side longer 

 than one-half the inferior, (4) internal side one-third to one-fourth 

 the inferior. 



(5) Ultra-nodal sector unbroken or but very slightly angulated ; 

 (6) subnodal and short sectors hardly more angulated. 



(7) Nodal sector arising from two and a half to four cells after 

 the nodus. 



(8) No supplementary sectors between the median and short 

 sectors. 



(9) With supplementary sectors forming an irregular network 

 (7-16 marginal cells) between the subnodal and median sectors. 



(10) Pterostigma three times as long as wide. 



(11) Hairs of the feet long (more than twice as long as the spaces 

 separating them). 



(12) Prothorax with the hind margin rounded and but very 

 slightly, if at all, emarginated in the middle. 



Until the publication of Ortholestes, the legion Lestes Selys was 

 known to contain but five ("sub-") genera: 3Iegalestes of Southern 

 India, Archilestes of tropical America, the cosmopolitan Lestes, the 

 Palsearctic Sympycna, and Platylestes of Southern India. The genua 

 Ortholestes, while undoubtedly belonging to this legion, differs from 

 some of the minor legionary characters as laid down by De Selys 

 (Bull. Ac. Roy. Belg. (2) xiii, pp. 288-338, 1862) by those above 

 25 




378 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1893. 



c^ <y 



^1 i 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 379 



numbered as 3, 5, 6 and 8, and from the genera, in addition to the 

 legionary differences, as follows : 



From Megalestes by 9. 



From Archilestes by 1, 2, 4, 7 and 10. 



From Lestes by 1. 



From Sympycna by 1, 4, 7, 11 and 12. 



From Flaty lestes hy 1. 



Additional differences from Megalestes and Plaiylestes may exist, 

 as I have not seen examples of these two genera. 



Other details of generic structure in Ortholestes are : the absence 

 of supplementary sectors between the ultra-nodal and the principal, 

 although the last one or two intervening cells may be divided. 

 Archilestes, Lestes and Sympycna also agree here. 



Between the ultra-nodal and nodal sectors are two or more sup- 

 plementary sectors which are quite broken and form an irregular 

 net work with 4-8 marginal cells. In Archilestes, Lestes^ and Sym- 

 pycna there are usually but two supplementary sectors between 

 ultra-nodal and nodal; they are quite distinct and regular; the 

 upper one commences 1-2 cells before the lower one and is usually 

 unbroken (Lestes and Sympycna) or somewhat broken (Archilestes) ; 

 the lower one is usually much broken ; the number of marginal 

 cells between nodal and ultra-nodal is 3-6. 



The ultra-nodal sector arises at about the level of the fifth or 

 sixth post-cubital, and therefore at about one-third the length of the 

 post-cubital series. In Archilestes, Lestes and Sympycna, the same 

 sector more usually arises near the middle of that series. 



Two to eight marginal cells may be present between the nodal 

 and subnodal sectors, depending on the degree of development of 

 supplementary sectors. 



The supplementary sectors between the subnodal and median sec- 

 tors are much broken. 



The basal postcostal cross-vein is placed distinctly nearer the 

 level of the second than of the first ante-cubital ; the reverse is usu- 

 ally the case in Archilestes, Lestes and Sympycna. These relations 

 may be stated in another way by saying that in Ortholestes the first 

 ante-cubital lies but little beyond half way from the base of the 



^The statements here made for Lestes are based on the following 17 species; 



unguiculata, uncata, disjuncta, forcipata, ineqiialis, vigilax, rectangidaris, for- 

 ficula, curina, congener, and teniiata of North America ; viridis, nynipha, sponsa, 

 virens and barbara of Europe ; Colensonis of New Zealand. 




380 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



wing to the second ante-cubital, while in the other tliree genera it is 

 usually at two-thirds that distance. 



The ninth abdominal segment is at least twice as long as the tenth ; 

 the appendages are longer than the tenth. In Lestes the appendages 

 of the females are shorter than 10. 



Recently, I have expressed the opinion' that the Calopteryginse 

 are to be looked upon as representing the most primitive of the liv- 

 ing subfamilies of the Odonata, that from them the Agrioninje are 

 descended, and that of the latter group the legion Lestes is phylo- 

 genetically the oldest. De Selys long ago suggested^ that the Calop- 

 terygine genus Amphipteryx, of tropical America, stands in near 

 relationship to the Lestes. Whether we look upon Amphiptei-yx as 

 most nearly approaching the ancestral form of the Lestes or not, if 

 we accept the general phylogenetic series above sketched, Ortholedes 

 possesses more primitive characters than any other genus of its 

 legion in those above numbered 3, 5 and 6. If we go a step farther 

 and attach a direct ancestral importance to Amphipteryx, then may 

 we look upon characters 1, 9 and 11 as relatively long inherited, 

 while 8 appears to be much more lately acquired and quite distinc- 

 tive of Ortholedes. 

 Ortholestes clara Caheit, Ent. News 11, p. 199, 1S91. 



$ . Head. Teueral : labrum, clypeus, middle only of top of 

 head brown with a slight metallic, bluish reflection; labium, man- 

 dibles, yellow ; gense, sides of frons and vertex bright yellow, but 

 with a brown patch adjoining the margin of the eyes opposite the 

 vertex; antennae yellow. Adult: labrum, clypeus, frons and vertex 

 dark metallic blue or black, a small orange spot on the outer side of 

 each posterior ocellus, a pruinose spot around anterior ocellus, a 

 small pruinose postocular spot each side ; labium, mandibles except 

 at tips, gen se, pale luteous (perhaps yellow or even blue in life) ; 

 antenuce black, first and second articulations yellowish. 



Thorax. Teueral: brown ; prothorax with a small yellow spot 

 each side on middle lobe, hind margin yellowish; remainder of 

 thorax with the following yellow: an antehumeral stripe not attain- 

 ing the antealar sinus, a complete humeral stripe, a lateral stripe in 

 front of the metastigma with a small spot above, the two forming 

 a reversed! all behind the second lateral suture, pectus. Adult: 



2Tran-=. Am. Ent. Soc. XX, p. 212, 1893. 

 ^Monog. Calopt. p. 241, 1854. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 381 



dark blue or black with a metallic reflectiou, thorax almost entirely 

 priiinose, yellow markings obliterated. 



Legs brown, paler interiorly, yellow at bases (teneral) ; darker, 

 somewhat pruinose (adult). 



Abdomen rather slender. Teneral: brown; base of 1 yellowish 

 on dorsum ; 3-9 with a transverse, basal, yellow ring, interrupted 

 on the middle line on 3, on 9 very small and connected by a mid- 

 dorsal line with a larger apical, yellow spot; greater part of dor- 

 sum of 10 and a lateral stripe on 2 and 3 bright yellow. Adult : 

 black; yellow markings less distinct anteriorly, obliterated on 8-10, 

 dorsum of 9-10 pruinose. 



Superior appendages as long as 9, somewhat forcipated. Each 

 has on its upper outer margin, just beyond the middle, 5-6 small 

 spines; lower inner margin much dilated and with two teeth in the 

 apical half, the more basal of which is rounded and lies opposite 

 the spines of the upper margin, while the more apical tooth is 



Fig. 2. Profile view, appendages of (9. I'/um cT 



smaller, somewhat triangular, its apex slightly notched ; beyond 

 this second tooth the remainder of the appendage, about one-sixth 

 of the entire length, continues as a cylindrical piece with a rounded 

 apex. 



Inferior appendages about half as long as the superiors ; viewed 

 from the side, each is rather thick at the base, becoming slender dis- 

 tally, with a small acute tooth near the middle of the upper margin, 

 apical half slender, curved upward, apex acute. Viewed from 

 below, the two inferiors are closely approximate in their basal 

 halves, the slender apical halves separated from each other at first, 

 converging posteriorly. 



Wings hyaline. Pterostigma and reticulation luteous (teneral) 

 or black (adult), the former surmounting 3-4 cells. 18-23 post- 

 cubitals on front wings, 15-19 on hind wings. 



9 similar in coloring to the teneral S from which it diffei's as 

 follows: humeral stripe and that in front of the metastigma conflu- 

 ent at their upper ends, but with the spot of the reversed ! distinct ; 

 a short, oblique, isolated, brown stripe behind the second lateral 

 suture ; abdomen somewhat thicker ; basal ring on 3-8, very small 

 on 8, interrupted on 3 and sometimes on 4 ; a small lateral spot on 




382 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



4; a small lateral spot on 8, apical dorsal half of 9 and the lateral 

 stripe on 2-3, yellow; yellow spots on dorsum of 10 extremely 

 small or absent. Appendages dark brown, longer than 10, not 

 denticulated. Genital valves brown, margins not denticulated. 

 Pterostigma luteous (teneral), light brown (adult). 18-23 post- 

 cubitals on front wings, 17-20 on hind wings. 



Measurements. Total length $ 41-5-47 mm., 9 37-40. Abdo- 

 men (including appendages) ^ 34-38, $ 29-31*o. Front wing 5 

 25-5-30, 9 26-29. Hind wing $ 245-29, 9 25-28. Ptero- 

 stigma 2-2-25- Superior appendages i 1-1.33. Appendages 9 '8- 



Described from the original four types, viz., one male, one female, 

 Kingston, Jamaica, May, 1890, by E. M. Aaron (Collection of P. 

 P. Calvert) ; one male, Kingston, by W. J. Fox (Coll. American 

 Entomological Society) ; one female, Jamaica, by C. AY. Johnson 

 (Coll. Wagner Institute of Science) ; and from two addi- 

 tional males, both from the Bath district of Jamaica by Mrs. Swain- 

 son (one in Coll. Institute of Jamaica at Kingston, the other in 

 Coll. P. P. C). 

 Ortholestes abbotti n. sp. 



^ closely resembling 0. dara. Differs by the shajje of the supe- 

 rior appendages in that the more basal of the two inferior teeth is 

 not so clearly distinct from the dilatation of the lower margin,. 



Fig. 3. Profile view, appendages of O. abbotti $ 

 while the more apical tooth is transformed into a slender, acute, 

 somewhat curved spine, situated on the apical side of the basal 

 tooth, and directed backward; the c^'lindrical terminal portion of 

 the appendage forms about one-fourth the entire length. 



Measurements. Total length 39 mm. Abdomen (inch app.) 

 31-5. Front wing 24. Hind wing 23. Pterostigma nearly 2. 

 Superior appendages 1-3. Female unknown. 



Described from one male from Hayti, by Dr. W. L. Abbott (Col- 

 lection of the American Entomological Society). 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 383 



ON A COLLECTION OF BATRACHIA AND EEPTILIA FROM SOUTHWEST 



MISSOURI. 



BY E. D. COPE, 



The zoology of the Ozark Mountain country is less known than 

 that of some more remote regions of our country. The fishes have, 

 however, been pretty fully investigated by the ichthyologists of the 

 United States Fish Commission, and the mammals are now claim- 

 ing the attention of the zoologists of the Bureau of Animal Industry 

 of the United States Agricultural Departments. In the present 

 paper I contribute something to the knoAvledge of the herpetology 

 of the region. 



BATRACHIA. 



Amblystoma punctatum L. 

 Spelerpes maculicaudus Cope, 

 Spelerpes melanopleurus sp. nov. 



This species is near to the S. bilineatus Green, but differs in both 

 proportions and coloration, and is also smaller, being the least spe- 

 cies of the genus. I took five specimens among the stones on the 

 banks of Raley's Ci*eek, one of the head tributaries of the White 

 River. 



The width of the head enters the length to the groin 4*5 times 

 (nearly 6 times in S. hillnentus), and the length to the axilla enters 

 the same 2'3 to 2"5 times (2"7 times in S. bilineatus). The limbs 

 and all the toes are well-developed, and the anterior and posterior 

 meet when applied to the side of the body ; they are separated by 

 three full intercostal spaces in S. bilineatus. There are always 

 only 13 costal grooves (14 in S. biliyieatvs). Tail strongly com- 

 pressed. The sides of the head, body and tail are black, with gen- 

 erally sparse white spots ; the upper border of this band is darkest, 

 representing the dorsolateral line of S. bilineatus. A few black 

 spots along median dorsal line. End of muzzle and chin black. 

 Limbs closely reticulated with black. Belly white in life (yellow 

 in S. bilineatus). Measurements of largest specimen : length to 

 angle of lower jaw, 4"5 mm. ; do. to axilla, 10 mm. ; do. to groin, 23 

 mm, ; do. to end of tail, 57"5 mm. ; do. of fore-limb, 65 mm. ; do. of 

 hind limb, 8 mm. 




384 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Although this species is smaller than S. bllineatus, it is more 

 robust and less sepsiforni in its proportions. In life, the white belly 

 constitutes a conspicuous color-character. 



Typhlotriton spelseus Stejneger, Proceeds U. S. Natl. Museum, Vol. XY, 1893. 



I obtained several specimens of this interesting species from the 

 proprietor of the Marble Cave, Mr. T. Powell. In spirits it has a 

 pale yellow color, as described by Dr. Stejneger, but in life it is 

 white. It occurs in a stream that flows at least 300 feet below the 

 surface. I examined this and other parts of the cave, which is a 

 very extensive one, and observed very little life in it. It seems 

 difficult to understand how the salamander, which is by no means 

 small, could find subsistence, but Mr. Powell states that a species of 

 " fly" inhabits the cave, and is sometimes very abundant. 



The vertebrae, as observed by Stejneger, are opisthocoelous, 

 although the ball of the centrum remains cartilaginous. The tarsus 

 is cartilaginous, although the elements are distinct. These consist, 

 as in Desmognathus, of ulnare, intermedium, radiale, centrale, and 

 five tarsalia, of which the first is on the inner border of the sole. 

 The location of the genus Typhlotriton in the Desmognathidse by 

 Stejneger is thus justified, and the addition of the genus Thorius to 

 the same family, as proposed by Boulenger, is sustained. 



The temporal muscle divides a short distance above its insertion 

 in the coronoid process of the mandible after passing under a malar 

 ligament. The inferior and most robust belly is attached to the infer- 

 ior part of the parietal bone. The superior and more slender belly 

 passes over the parietal bone, lying in a groove between the inferior 

 belly and the low sagittal angle of the skull, and is inserted into 

 the spine of the atlas vertebra, as is the case in the genus Desmog- 

 nathus. It difl^ers from the corresponding muscle in Desmognaihus 

 in not developing a tendon where it passes over the parietal bone, 

 the point of insertion into the atlas only showing this character. 



REPTILIA. 



Sceloporus undulatus Daud. 



Crotaphytus collaris Say. C. baileyi Stejneger, North American Fauna, tS90, p. 103. 



This species is quite abundant near Galena, Missouri. It has not 

 been hitherto noted as existing in Missouri, the nearest localities 

 recorded being the Neosho River, I. T., and the Arkansas Eiver in 

 Western Arkansas. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 385 



Ophisaurus ventralis Daud, 

 Eumeces fasciatus L. 

 Carphophiops vermis Kenn. 

 Ophibolus doliatus doliatus L. 

 Ophibolus getulus sayi Holbr. 

 Coluber confinis B. & G. 

 Coluber obsoletus Say. 

 Bascanium flagelliforme Catesby. 



I have no previous record of this species from Missouri, the near- 

 est approach being the Red River in southern Arkansas. 

 Storeria dekayi Ilolbrook. 

 Natrix fasciata sipedon L. 

 Eutaenia sirtalis sirtalis L. 

 Ancistrodon contortrix L. 

 Crotalus horridus L. 




386 rROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



ON THE BATRACHIA AND REPTILIA OF THE PLAINS AT LATITUDE 



36° 30'. 



BY E. D. COPE. 



The following species were obtained by the writer and Professor 

 A. P. Brown, of the University of Pennsylvania, at the following 

 localities: Fort Supply, in northwest Oklahoma; Miami and Mo- 

 beetie in the northeastern part of the Panhandle of Texas, and Hen- 

 nessy, in central Oklahoma. For the greater number of species 

 obtained at Fort Supply, I am indebted to Dr. Corbusier, U. S. A., 

 whose material aid I hereby gratefully acknowledge. 



BATRACHIA. 



Amblystoma tigrinum Green. 



Fort Supply ; Hennessy. 

 Bufo lentiginosus americanus Loee. 



Fort Supply. 

 Chorophilus triseriatus clarkii Bd. 



Abundant and noisy in pools near the Cimmaron River, at Tucker, 

 Oklahoma. Similar to the individuals reported by me from Claren- 

 don, Texas.^ 



REPTILIA. 



Cistudo ornata Agass. 



Fort Supply. 

 Cinosternum flavescens Agass. 



Professor Brown found a living specimen of this species about six 

 miles west of Mobeetie, Texas. This is much the most northern 

 locality recorded for the species. 

 Chelydra serpentina L. 



Hennessy, Oklahoma Territory. 

 Crotaphytus collaris Say. 



Fort Supply and Miami. 

 Holbrookia maculata B. <t G. 



Fort Supply and Mobeetie. 



^ Proceedings Academy Natural Sciences of Philada., 1892, p. 333. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 387 



Phrynosoma cornutum Ilasl. 



Fort Supply, Mobeetie, and Hennessy. 

 Cnemidophorus sexlineilus L. 



Fort Supply and Miami. 

 Ophisaurus ventralis Daud. 



Hennessy. 

 Ophibolus doliatus sysputus Cope. 



Hennessy, Oklahoma Territory. 

 Ophibolus getulus sayi Holbr. 



Mobeetie. 

 Pityophis sayi sayi Schleg. 



Fort Supply. 

 Coluber spiloides D. & B. 



Fort Supply. 

 Bascanicum flagelliforme testaceum Sav. 



Fort Supply. 

 Diadophis amabilis docilis B. & G. 



Hennessy, Oklahoma Territory. 

 Heterodon nasicus nasicus B. & G. 



Fort Supply. 

 Tropidoolonium lineatum Hallow. 



Hennessy. 

 Eutaenia elegans marciana B. & G. 



Fort Supply. 

 Crotalaphorus catenatus edwardsii B. & G. 



Mobeetie and Hennessy. These localities extend the range of 

 this species. It is characteristic of the sandy country that extends 

 from Mobeetie eastward, and which is also seen about Hennessy in 

 central Oklahoma. 

 Crotalus confluentus Say. 



The Staked Plain west of Mobeetie. 




388 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



GEOWTH CHANGES OF THE RADULA IN LAND-MOLLUSKS. 

 BY DR. Y. STERKI. 



The radula, or lingual membrane of the glossophorous moUusca 

 has been most assiduously studied, being a very attractive and 

 interesting object in itself, and a valuable character for systematic 

 distinctions. Its features in the land mollusca of America have been 

 investigated by W. G. Binney ;^ but thus far the adult animals only 

 have been considered, and conclusions regarding the morphology of 

 the teeth have been based chiefly upon these. Of the development 

 of the radula and its changes 'nith advancing age, very little is known. 

 The writer published some years ago, a short article on the subject," 

 but the considerations then advanced prove to be quite insufficient. 



During the last few months a number of species have been 

 examined with special reference to these changes, and the results 

 prove to be of unexpected value. The subject has been studied from 

 a morphological standpoint only. For histological details the pub- 

 lications of Kcelliker, Semper, A. Ruecker and others must be con- 

 sulted. 



The special cases to be described in detail below may be more 

 readily understood by attention to the following general considera- 

 tions. If we carefully examine a well prepared and extended radula 

 of a young specimen, it will be seen that in the anterior, or older 

 part (which was formed, however, by the animal when younger), a 

 transverse row contains fewer teeth than a row in the posterior or 

 more lately formed part. In other words, new teeth, one or more 

 new longitudinal rows, are added. The new teeth are at first mere 

 traces, resembling the outermost marginals in general form, being 

 small, roundish nodules, transverse or longitudinally elongated 

 plates, which, by gradual changes in each succeeding transverse row, 

 develop into true marginal teeth. At the same time it may be 

 found that there are, in a transverse row at the anterior, one or more 

 laterals fewer than in a row at the posterior part ; and a closer 



^Terr. Moll. U. S., Vol. V.; and Jaw and Dentition of Pulmonatc Mollusks, 

 Annals X. Y. Acad, of Sci., Vol. III. 



^ Altersverschiedenheiten der Radula bei Hra/iitia, Xachrichtsbl. d. Deutscben 

 Malak. Gesellschaft, 1882, p. 172-177. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 389 



attentiou Avill show that in a certain longitudinal row at the margin 

 of the " central field," a transition tooth gradually transforms into a 

 well shaped lateral, a marginal into a transition tooth, and finally, in 

 turn, into a lateral. 



In these few lines the development and transformation of the radula 

 is briefly outlined. This organ is not, as has generally been supposed, 

 always of the same formation, number of teeth, etc., in a given 

 species, and only smaller in the young examples, but there are 

 actually fewer transverse rows in the young, and fewer teeth in each 

 row. Moreover, the teeth at first are of very simple form, and by 

 gradual changes by replacement they assume their final shape. The 

 transformation is never simple, but is accomplished through one or 

 several intermediate stages, sometimes widely ditt'ereut ; and more- 

 over, the process diflers widely in the various species and groups. 



The general considerations above presented are based upon the 

 examination of the few species with which the present communica- 

 tion deals. This paper must be regarded as the beginning of a long 

 series of examinations, which should comprise all species. Such a 

 research will doubtless give results not only highly interesting in 

 themselves, but also of great taxonomic value. Certain characters of 

 the radula which are very indistinct in the adult, or even overlooked 

 by careful observers, become of characteristic value in the light 

 gained by the examination of the earliest stages of growth. In the 

 embryonal animal we find forms of teeth present then and there 

 only, disappearing entirely in post-embryonal life; so we maj'' 

 properly speak of a true metamorphosis of the radula. 



The species examined with reference to this metamorphosis are as 

 follows: Limax carapestris Say ; Zonitoides arboreus Hay ; Z. ligeriis 

 Say ; Zonitoides sp. undet. from Tennessee ; Z. siippresstis Say ; 

 Patiila striatella Anth.; alternataSay ; solitaria Say; Polygyra (Trio- 

 dopsis) tridentataSay ; P. (Stenotrema) hirsidaSay. Of most of these 

 I had no embryos at hand for examination, but veiy young speciiuens. 



Limax campestris Say. PL 10. 



This species, and probably all of the genus, are very favorable sub- 

 jects for our purpose, since oviposition is continued throughout the 

 season, so that ova, young, adolescent and adult examples may be 

 found and compared at almost any time. The ova are not usually 

 deposited in clusters consisting of great numbers, as in most other 




390 Proceedings of the academy of [1893. 



land mollusca, hut singly or few aggregated. They are at first not 

 glohular, hut distinctly ellipsoidal, the shell heing perfectly glassy 

 and transparent, so that yolk division and the formation and devel- 

 opment of the eml^ryo may he observed through it. 



The buccal body and radula develop rather rapidly. In an 

 embryo taken from the ovum, about 2 -5 mm. long when extended, 

 not quite mature, with the caudal bladder still rather large, but the 

 heart formed and regularly contracting, the shell measured about 0-35 

 mm. long. The radula was 0-35 mm. long and had as many as 34 

 transverse rows of teeth. In the first of them there were 3 teeth, the 

 central and a lateral on either side, appearing as thin, barely visible 

 plates, or mere traces (0\ in fig. 1). Other specimens showed the 

 same more distinct, as represented in fig, VI. In the following 

 transverse rows they are larger, and rapidly develop in shape, while 

 at the margin new teeth of the same character are added, at first 

 with each row, then at greater and greater intervals, so that, in the 

 radula mentioned above, the formula was 12-C-12 in the twenty- 

 fifth transverse row. The development of the radula proceeds com- 

 paratively very fast, in this and other species, faster than the growth 

 of the animal, so that even very young specimens have the radula 

 far advanced and show nothing more of the earliest formed teeth. 

 The addition of new teeth is not always regular and symmetrical on 

 both sides ; thus, the fifth longitudinal row may begin at the sixth 

 transverse row on one side, and with the seventh on the other, so 

 that the formula for the sixth would then be 5-C-4. 



Not all of the teeth are formed and transformed in the same way, 

 in this and other species, as may be seen by the figures. But Limax 

 campestris, and other Lhnaco- Zonitidce and Helicidce, show such new 

 and unexpected features that they must be considered more in 

 detail. 



For a better understanding and easier reference the following table 

 gives the particulars of a series of the specimens examined, all of 

 them, except two, being represented in figs. I-V on PL 10. 



Embryo 2"0 mm. long ; radula 0'3 mm. long, with 27 transverse rows. 



Fig. 1. Embryo 2"5 mm. long ; radula 0'35 mm. long, with 34 transverse rows. 



Animal 3'0 mm. long ; radula 0'55 mm. long, with 56 transverse rows. 



Fig. 2. Animal 3"5 mm. long ; radula 072 mm. long, with 65 transverse rows. 



Fig. 3. Animal 7 mm. long ; radula 1'15 mm. long, with 86 transverse rows. 



Fig. 4. Animal 15 mm. long ; radula 2'24 mm. long, with 104 transverse rows. 



Fig. 5. Animal 27 mm. long ; radula 272 mm. long, with 105 transverse rows. 



* They were first overlooked, and afterward designated as O in the original 

 drawing, of which the present is a copy. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 391 



THE CENTRAL TEETH. 



The central tooth is first formed as a simple, rouudish or oval 

 nodule, with a blunt point directed backward (fig. I and VI), 

 rapidly increasing in length in the following rows. At the same 

 time one or two somewhat irregular side cusps appear on either side, 

 which on about the eighth tooth become more constant, more marked, 

 and single on each side. There are, however, occasional exceptions 

 as shown in the tenth of fig. VI, where on the right* side there are 

 again two side cusps. Thus it attains its final shape, but is some- 

 what uusymmetrical, and so it remains, not only in one specimen, 

 but as a rule in all (see figs. II- VI). This is also the case in other 

 species. In some individuals the right side cusp is more posterior, 

 in others the left. It early becomes noticeable that the central tooth 

 stands more posteriorly than the laterals on either side of it, as repre- 

 sented in fig. VI. Comparatively early the plate of attachment 

 extends backward, at first quite small, barely noticeable, and only 

 on the side bearing the anterior side-cusp; but later it extends on 

 both sides. 



These facts make it evident that the central tooth is simple prim- 

 arily, not formed by the coalescence of two original laterals as has 

 been supposed. 



THE LATERAL TEETH. 



An adult specimen of Limax campestris has about 11 to 18^ lateral 

 teeth. And to my surprise I found that, although they are exactly 

 alike in their final shape, they are formed in two widely different 

 ways : 



(1). The 6 or 7 mesial laterals on each side first appear as thin, 

 simple, transverse, nearly rectangular plates, each as a rule preceded 

 by a short, nodule-like "trace," (see figs. I and VI). They soon 

 become longer at their inner ends, more triangular, and the mesodont 

 forms, being at first short and blunt, but immediately growing longer, 



* Eight and left are liere given as they appear under the microscope. 



5 These limits are exceptionally Tvide and may be considerably narrowed by 

 subsequent careful observations. The specimens with fewer laterals may very 

 likely be immature. In the slugs there is no definite criterion of maturity, except 

 probably in the genital organs, which should be consulted in every case. W. G. 

 Binney found the tooth formula to be c. 18"22 in one specimen, c. 11"25 in another ; 

 I counted c. 14xl'31 in an individual 27 mm. long but still probably not fully 

 mature. 




392 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



more slender, sharp pointed and spine- like. At the same time 2 or 

 3, or even 4 smaller cusps are formed on the outer side, and one (an 

 endodont) or sometimes two cusps on the inner, so that there are 

 typically 4 or 5, sometimes 6 or even 7 cusps on a tooth (see fig. VI 

 first lateral in the second and fifth transverse rows. ) This peculiar 

 formation of the inner group of laterals is found in the embryonal or 

 larval stage of the animal only ; and in order to have an appropriate 

 name for this form of tooth, we may properly term it echinate. 



The teeth, passing through the echinate stage, gradually again 

 change in form ; the body of the tooth becomes longer, the mesodont 

 loses its spine-like form, becoming wider, and its free cutting point 

 shorter ; the endodont becomes more coalescent with the mesodont, 

 with a short and less acute point ; but it remains constant, being 

 visible in all specimens in different stages of growth which were 

 examined, from this locality." 



Further modifications are that one or two of the distal cusps dis- 

 appear, and the one or two remaining are transformed into the single 

 ectodont of the adult (conf. fig. VI, the first lateral in the eighth to 

 eleventh transverse rows); moreover the plate of attachment begins 

 to be prolonged backward, at first being ver}" thin and small, barely 

 visible. The outcome of this series of changes is the perfect lateral 

 tooth of the adult Lhna.v. 



All of the forms above described may be seen in one transverse 

 row, (as represented in the fifteenth row of fig. I), and the different 

 stages of transformation are shown in every longitudinal row of the 

 same figure and fig. VI ; but it must be added that the transverse 

 rows, especially in the anterior part of the radula, are closer together 

 than represented in the drawing, in which they are separated for the 

 sake of distinctness ; and the cusps reach further backward over the 

 body of each following tooth. The individual teeth are fully as wide 

 in the front part of the radula as more posteriorly. 



(2). The distal laterals are evolved through other intermediate 

 stages much resembling those undergone by the later aculeate mar- 

 ginals, as illustrated in figs. II- V. Fig. II represents at A the 

 thirtieth, at B the forty- fifth transverse row of teeth from a spec- 



^ It may be noted here that in the persistence of the endodont, Liniax cam- 

 pestris offers no distinctive character from Li»iax agrestis Linn.; and it may be 

 added that in drawings made in 1882, of the radula of Limax tenellus Nils. 

 and /-. cinereiis Lister, from the Swiss Alps, the endodont is distinctly shown. 




lM!)o.] XATFRAL SCIENCES OF PiriLADElJ'HIA. •^•'•^ 



imen which had been hatched a few days. Tliis radula measured 

 0-72 mm. long, and was in the posterior part 0-28 mm. wide. It has 

 65 transverse rows of teeth numbering T-cT in front, 10"8c8*10 

 in the posterior part ; so that the new longitudinal rows formed dur- 

 ing its growth are 11 on either side. The first transverse row of this 

 radula corresponds approximately to the twelfth in fig. I or VI, thus 

 the thirtieth to the forty-second, the forty-fifth to the fifty-seventh of 

 the whole series ; the teeth of about the 1 1 first formed transverse 

 rows were cast off. 



All teeth present in fig. II would become typical laterals in the 

 adult animal. They are primarily transverse bars ; at the inner end 

 of each bar the mesodont is formed, at first quite small, and then two 

 or threee ectodonts appear, which, as the mesodont grows, come to 

 stand on the latter ; (figs. II, 45: lo-ll ; III, 18) with the exception 

 of one which remains upon the conmiou reflection, and is transformed 

 into the final ectodont. Of the endodont not a trace is present 

 originally ; and it forms only later when the tooth passes through 

 the intermediate or "transition" stage to become a true lateral. 

 The consequent stages may be seen in comparing the teeth with 

 corresponding numbers in figs. II-V ; thus tooth 15 is shown from 

 its beginning almost to full maturity ; and the figures give a better 

 idea of the changes than any description. A main factor in the 

 development of the tooth is the growth of the plate of attachment, 

 forward and backward from the "body" of the tooth. 



THE MARGINAL TEETH. 



The marginals, although much resembling the outer laterals in a 

 certain stage, are somewhat different from the first. Instead of being 

 a transverse bar, the base of attachment is longitudinally elongated, 

 as seen in figs. Ill, 28; IV, 40, 41; and V 45, 46. The aculeate 

 mesodont is at first very small, but it grows rapidly, and is at once 

 directed obliquely inward. 



The marginals are not all alike. I'hose toward the inside are seen 

 quite early to bear ectodonts (fig. Ill, 20-27). The ectodont 

 becomes rather large, but subsequently disappears (fig. V, 25). 

 There is, however, a decided irregularity in this character, for in the 

 same longitudinal row there may be teeth with, and others without 

 an ectodont (fig. IV, 80). The distal marginals seem always to be 

 simple, without an ectodont (fig. IV and V). It may be noted for 

 2(5 




394 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



comparison, that in Limax tenellus Nils., all (32) marginals were 

 found to have a distinct "outer cusp"; but on the marginals of L. 

 dnereid^ Lister ( about 130 ou each side ) no ectodouts were seen. 



A similar formation of the earliest teeth will i)robably be found 

 in other Limaces, and in such ZoniUdce as Hiialinia radkdula Gray, 

 petrophila Bid., capsella Gld., etc., species in which the laterals bear 

 distinct endodonts. 



Zonitoides arboreus Say. PI. 11, figs. I. II. 



No embryo of this species was obtained, but a very young spec- 

 imen with shell and soft parts nearly colorless, the former measuring 

 1-1 mm. diameter, with Ij whorls. The radula (fig. I), was 0'39 

 mm. long, and had 48 transverse rows, of which, however, some of 

 the youngest, at the posterior end, could not be clearly seen. Here 

 there are 7"c-7 teeth, three of which are rather well formed laterals. 

 Very few rows and teeth could have been lost from the front end of 

 the radula, and the first present in the specimen examined were evi- 

 dently of primitive shape, and a type entirely different from that 

 of Lima.r, rather resembling those of Patiila strlatella, couf. fig. 

 VIII. 



The central teeth iiave a wide, short base or "body," with a dis- 

 tinct mesodont and at least quite early a side cusp on each side. 

 Comparatively soon the plate of attachment is seen [wsteriorly, 

 though very small. The laterals (about o in the adult) are wide 

 transverse plates, somewhat irregular, longer in the mesial half, with 

 a short, wide, blunt mesodont gradually becoming longer and more 

 slender, and 2 or 3 small cusps in place of the later ectodout. No 

 trace of an endodont is seen. As the teeth without much change 

 gain their definite shape, the plates of attachment also develop. 



Fig. II represents the radula of a nearly adult specimen, the shell 

 having a diameter of 4 '3 mm. The radula is l"0o mm. long, 0-35 

 wide, and has 77 transverse rows of 17"0 c. 5T7 teeth. Only the 

 first marginal bears an ectodont. Another example, of 4-3 mm. 

 diameter, had a radula 1-33 mm. long, U-45 wide, with 19-1x5- c. 

 oxl'U* teeth. Another of a peculiar form from Alabama gave the 

 formula 20-lx4-c. •4x1-20. 



Embryonic 3j)ecimens remain to be examined, and the earliest 

 form of the central and inner lateral teeth ascertained. 




IS!);).] NATUKAJ^ SCIKXCKS OK PH FLAl )KI,1'I I I A . oii5 



Zonitoides ligerus Say. PI. 11, tigs. III. IV. 



We have in Pennsylvania and Oliiu, a very small t'orni measuring 

 9-10 ram. diameter, which lias been considered Z. li(jerii.% although 

 with some doubt. Besides other diti'erential characters, there are two 

 accessory glands near the head of the dart sac, while W. G. Binney 

 found only one in typical ll(/ern.-<. 



No embryo has been secured thus far. The smallest examples 

 found measured about o mm. in diameter ; and the radula of one 

 of these is represented in fig. Ill, having 2U- c -20 teeth, of which 6 

 are perfectly formed laterals and the 7th and 8th nearly so, the 

 latter corresponding with the loth of an adult, and the "transition 

 tooth" 9 to 14. At least 9-18 then, of the younger specimen, will be 

 transformed into laterals. In either example all the teeth showing 

 the transition from the aculeate marginals to the laterals have been 

 represented in my figures, 14-7 in III, 17-11 in IV,' so that 

 the transformation can immediately be seen by comparing the 

 teeth bearing the same numbers. We specially notice: first, the 

 total absence of endodonts in all teeth, just as in Z. arhoreus ; second, 

 the absence of ectodonts in the distal, newly formed, aculeate teeth — 

 /. e. in most marginals except a few mesial ; and third, the longitud- 

 inally elongated plates of the youngest marginals. 



Besides Z. liyerns, young and adult examples of a few other 

 nearly related species were examined, one from Tennessee probably 

 new, and Z. suppirssiis Say. They gave essentially the same results 

 as /i</erus. 



Patula striatella .\iitli. PL 11. tigs. YII. VIII, IX. 



Several end)ryos from the eggs were examined. Fig. IX shows 

 the buccal body of a quite young specimen with tlie commencement 

 of the radual, in optical section. Diameter of the buccal body 0*12 

 mm. The spindle-.shaped cells above are the developing retractor 

 muscle. 



Of an eiHi)ryo more advanced, about 1 mm. long, and nearly 

 mature, having a shell of 1 '. whorls, and the caudal bladder small 

 but .still slowly contracting, the radula is represented in fig. VIII. 

 It is 0T4 mm. long, with 21 transverse rows, in the last 9-c*9 teeth. 

 But the formation of new teeth is somewhat irregular on the two sides 



' For (ti.stiiiftiicss tlicy arc separated in tlic draw iiig ; in nature tliey lie close 

 together; tliis is indicated 1)y the sign. 




396 PROCEEDINC4S OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



in tliis as well as some other species. The first transverse row is 

 represented only l\v the first lateral on the right ; the second by 1 "C'l 

 and so on, as shown in the figure. The transformation is rather 

 simple and decidedly slow. The centrals are wide and short, at first 

 with a short, wide, blunt median projection which develops into the 

 mesodont, and very slowly, like the side cusps. All other teeth are 

 first formed as simple transverse bars or plates, the laterals gradually 

 assuming their definite shapes without intermediate stages : even the 

 ectodonts seem to be alwaj's single. Otherwise there is much sim- 

 ilarity to Z. arboreus, but the forms are somewliat more plump. 



The fir.«t formation and development of the )nar'ji)ial.< has not yet 

 been observed with sufticient exactness. The mesodont and partly 

 the ectodont are "double- pointed," and it appears probable that the 

 mesial small cusp of the former is really the entodont, as it first 

 stands near the liase (fig. VII, 15) and then gradually ascends on 

 the mesodont and becomes evanescent, as seen in fig. VII, 12-8. 

 This figure represents the radula, 1 -4 mm. long, from a specimen hav- 

 ing a shell of o-o mm. diameter, apparently not quite mature. Yet in 

 all the 94 transverse rows, no new teeth are added; the formula is 

 c. 6x1:10. There is very little change in the shapes of the single 

 teeth, except that the plates of the sixth and seventh laterals are 

 noticeably longer in the posterior than in the front part of the radula. 



Of Patula alfernata Say, a number of examples were examined. 

 One having a shell of 20 mm. diameter had a radula 4-5 mm. long, 

 1 •-) wide, with 143 transverse rows of 34"C-34 teeth, with alwut 15 

 laterals. In a young specimen of 3 mm. diameter the radula was 0*88 

 mm. long, and had 72 transverse rows of 11-c-ll in the anterior, 

 12-c'12 in the posterior part. 



The radula of Patula solitaria Say, extracted from a shell of 23 

 mm. diameter, is 5 mm. long, 1*8 wide, with 142 transverse rows of 

 31"c-31 teeth, 16 laterals, In a young one, the shell of 5-3 mm. 

 diameter, I counted 68 transverse rows of 13-C-13 teeth in the 

 anterior 15-C-15 in the posterior part. 

 Polygyra " (Triodopsisi tridentata S;iy. I'l. 11. tij;s. V. VI. 



No embryo or quite young specimens were at my disposition. 

 The smallest found had a shell measuring about 6 mm. in diameter, 



"See Pilsbry, Preliiuiiiary outline of a new classification of tlie Helices. 

 Proc. Acad. Xat. Sc, Phila., 1892, p. 400. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 397 



and its radiila was 1 "63 mm. loug, 0-70 wide, with 88 transverse 

 rows. lu a mature specimen of 15 mm. diameter, the radula was 

 3-85 mm. long, 1*34 wide, with 112 transverse rows. The former 

 had (in the middle part) 20"c-20 teeth, of which five were laterals and 

 two very nearly so; in the latter part there were 30*c*30 in the 

 anterior, 31*c-31 in the posterior part, about 10 of them laterals. 

 They are represented in figs. V and VI, and the form of the teeth 

 is essentially the same in both. The centrals have distinct side 

 cusps ; in the laterals there is not a trace of the endodont, while the 

 mesial cusp, adjacent to the mesodont of the "marginals," seems to 

 be an endodont, since it stands nearly isolated on the base in the 

 younger teeth, as shown in 29, fig. VI, and then (as in many other 

 species of this genus, of Patnla, and of Helicidtv generally), gradu- 

 ally coalesces with the mesodont, ascends upon it, and finally becomes 

 obsolete. There is, however, considerable vai'iation as to this in the 

 distal laterals, even in the same longitudinal row, as shown in fig. 

 VI, 25-29, 



Polygyra (Steuotrerna) hirsufa Say gave essentially the same result. 



As already said, the observations presented above have been made 

 on but few species, and not complete even in most of these. They 

 must be carried further. Yet the results obtained appear to be for 

 the most part new and valuable ; they may briefiy be comprised in 

 the following conclusions : 



1. The radula in land mollusca is quite different in the various 

 stages of life, both as to the number and the shape of the teeth. 



2. As to number : there are very few teeth in the first formed 

 transverse rows, and new ones, forming new longitudinal rows, are 

 added at the lateral margins, at first rapidly, then at greater and 

 greater intervals. The development of the radula goes on faster than 

 the growth of the animal, comparatively, so that in young examples 

 it is larger in proportion to the size of the animal than in the adult. 



3. As to shape : the first formed teeth are of very simple shape 

 and by gradual transformation give place to teeth of the final form. 

 This transformation may go through different stages, or by different 

 modes in cases where the form becomes ultimately the same. 



4. The question whether the addition of new teeth and the trans- 

 formation of teeth goes on as long as life lasts, or ceases with ma- 

 turity is not yet decided. 




398 I'HoCKKDrNfiS ol' THK ACADEMY ()F [1893. 



5. In certain species and gi'oups there are forms of teeth in the 

 emhrvonal, or larval staire. entirely diftereut from those fonnd in 

 post- embryonal life, so that we may i)roperly speak of the change as 

 a metamorphosis. 



(i. The new formation and transformation of teeth is, as a rule, 

 not exactly symmetrical on the two sides of the radula, so that a 

 formula of one side is often only approximately true. 



7. The width of the individual teeth, (and of the longitudinal 

 rows), is the same from the earliest formation to the later stages and 

 the increase in width of the whole radula is effected exclusively by 

 the addition of new longitudinal rows. 



8. The central teeth seem to be" (and in some species are doubt- 

 less) simple from their first formation ; not a product of the coales- 

 cence of two original laterals. 



9. They are, as a rule, more or less markedly asymmetrical. 



10. The terras ''lateral' and "marginal" teeth are not of alv 

 solute significance : The "marginals" of a younger specimen, or a 

 part of them, will have transformed into laterals when the animal is 

 adult. 



11. It is also quite inadmissible to speak of- the marginals as 

 modified laterals, for a transformation never takes place in this 

 direction. We should not say, as has been usual, tliat the simple 

 mesodont of the laterals becomes split, or bicuspid, in the marginals; 

 but the contrary is true : the "double pointed mesodont" of the 

 marginal loses its endodont and becomes simple as the tooth is grad- 

 ually replaced by a lateral. It is incorrect to say: "The teeth 

 become smaller towards the margins," as they virtually increase in 

 size from the margin toward the middle. 



12. The expression "transition teeth" between marginals and 

 laterals (not the reverse) has become of a real, actual meaning, just 

 as the word "relationshi])" among organisms has gained its proper 

 meaning by the theory of descent, 



18. The diffierent ways in which the teeth are formed and trans- 

 formed will probaldy furnish valuable hints for systematic mala- 

 cology. 



*• At If'ast ill the land Puliinniata ( X<'i)hn)]Piuii^;ta v. 111.): in sioiiic Liniiiaci- 

 dae, I'. >;. Livnuca palustiis .Miill.. thrvf is a siniiif; i)r()l)iil)ility that the cen- 

 trals arc double iu first fonnatiou. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCFS OF PHILAPELPHTA. 399 



14. The rate of increase in iuinil)er of the teeth will furnish the 

 means for calculating the rate of the new formation of the radula as 

 a whole. This is more rapid than is generally supposed.'" 



1."). It is evident that the morphology of a radula can be 

 thoroughly understood only by examining and comparing the diti'er- 

 ent stages of its formation. 



In the text nothing has been said about the methods of pi-eparation 

 and manipulation of the raduUe, — not much is necessary. As 

 far as possible, the radula has been removed from the fresh 

 animal unchanged. Caustic alkali has been used where necessary. 

 By careful desiccation, and also by the action of chromic acid solu- 

 tion, for staining, valuable results may be obtained, as the teeth 

 and especially the plates of attachment shrink somewhat and thus are 

 separated from each other, and seen more exactly. But it is almost 

 unnecessary to add that this means can only be used in connection 

 with observations on the intact radula, for without this check artificial 

 might be mistaken for natural features. 



EXTLAXATION OF Pl>ATES 10 AND 11. 



I'l.ATK 10, Fig. I — Kadula of an embryo of LImax cam pest ns Sa,y, 

 not quite mature, showing first part of radula 

 formed. 

 II — Radula of a specimen a few days old (after hatch- 

 ing), and measuring 3-5 mm. long. 



A. 30th transverse row (about 42nd of total 

 number). 



B. 45th transverse row (about 57th of total 

 number). 



Ill — Radula of a specimen 7 mm. long, one- half of 



a transverse row, formula c. 10'18. 

 IV — Radula of a specimen 15 mm. long, one- half of a 

 transverse row, formula, c. 14'27. 

 V — Radula of a specimen 15 mm. long, one-half of 

 a transverse row, formula, c. 14-32. 



'"Without repi'iitiiif; tlio calciilatidns Iicvc. it may he said that I fouuil the 

 radula of Liiiia.i' raiiiprslris to form alxuit soo traiisvt'rsc rows in all- — i)rohahly 

 consideral)ly more ; thi.s would mean that the radula is about eight times entirely 

 ehangod during life. For Polygyra {Mesodon) thyroides about 2000 transverse 

 rows were found, corresponding to about 16 to 18 total renewals. 




400 PROCKEDJNOS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



VI — Left side of first part of radula of another embryo. 

 Plate 11, Fig. I — Zonitoides arboreus Bay, quite young, anterior part; 

 X 600. 

 II — The same, nearly mature; x ca. 750. 

 Ill — Zonitoides ligerus Say, young, 3 mm. diara. ; x 400. 

 IV — The same, adult, 9-5 mm. diam. ; x 400. 

 V — Polygyra tridentata Say, young, 6 mm. diam.; x 400. 

 VI — The same, adult, 15 mm. diam. ; x 400. 

 VII — Patula striatelfa Anth., adult, 5-3 mm. diam.; 



X 470. 

 VIII — The same, embryo, 1 "0 mm. diam. ; x 400. 

 IX — The same, very young embryo, buccal body, 0'12 

 mm. diam. 




1893.] NATl'KAL SCIENCES OF PHTI.ADEJ.PHIA. 401 



November 7. 

 Rev. Henry C. McCJook, I). D. , Vice-President, iu the chair. 



Twenty-eight persons present. 



Papers' under the following titles were presented for publication : — 



"Description of two new Pocket Mice from the United vStates, 

 with remarks on the identity of allied forms," by Samuel K. Rhoads. 



''On some Leech-like Parasites of x\merican Crayfishes," by J. 

 Percy Moore. 



"On extinct Bovidjc, Canida> and Felida' from the Plistocene ot 

 the Plains," by E. D. Cope. 



November 14. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 

 Thirty-seven persons present. 



The death of Francis T. Steel, a member, Sept. 20, 1893, was 

 annnounced. 



November 21. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 



Eighty- seven persons present. 



A paper entitled "Geographic Variations in Bassariscus astutus, 

 with description ot a new subspecies," by Samuel N. Rhoads, was 

 presented for publication. 



Fossil Fishes Jrom British Cobnnbia. — Prof. Edw. D. Cope 

 states that Dr. G. M. Dawson, of the Geological Survey of the 

 Dominion of Canada, had submitted to him for determination some 

 S[)ecimens of fossil fishes from British Columbia. Some of them are 

 fnmi a hai'd shale from near Tranquilla, and others are from a shale 

 of softer character from the north fork of the Smilkameen River, 

 which is a tributary of the Columbia. The specimens from the 

 former locality are too imperfect for determination, while one from 

 the latter locality may be named. It is a species of Aiayzon, which 




402 PJ{OCEKI)IN«8 OF THK ACADKMV OF [189)). 



differs from those already known in the shortne.<s of the dors^al fin, 

 etc. The characteri^ of the species so fiar as determinable are as 

 follows : 



Amyzon brevipixxe sp. nov. — Form, medium ; depth of body 

 equal length of liead. Fin radii ; D. 22-3 ; A. 8 ; V. prol)ably 11, 

 an interruption in tlie order of the rays making tlie location of these 

 rays uncertain. Seventeen vertebne may l)e counted anterior to the 

 caudal region, of which 10 are anterior to the anterior l)ase of the 

 dorsal fin. Space for two additional vertebric exists at an interrup- 

 tion of the dorsal series, so that the total number of precaudal ver- 

 tebrte is probably nineteen, as the dorsal fin is uninterru})ted. 

 Distal caudal vertebrje and fin absent. Pectoral, ventral and anal 

 fins well separated from each other. Length anterior to caudal 

 vertebne 57 mm. ; length of base of dorsal fin, 23 '5 mm. ; depth at 

 anterior base of dorsal fin, 2.") mm. Tiie species difiei-s from.tho.-<e 

 alreadv desci'ibed in the smaller nund^er of dorsal fin-rays, and of 

 dorsal vertebrte. The specimen on wliich it is based is of smaller 

 size than tho.se of most of the other species, but some of the frag- 

 ments of the collection indicate larger individuals. 



The discovery of tliis species, extends the distribution of the 

 Amyzon beds beyond its previous limits. The localities at present 

 known are the South Park, Colorado, and Osino, Elko Co., Nevada. 

 Dr. Dawson informs me that ])oth insect and plant remains occur in 

 tliese fish-shales and that Prof. Scudder finds the former to belong- 

 to species different from those of other localities. 



November 28. 



The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 



Forty-seven persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 



"North American Larridie," by Wm. J. Fox. 



"New Species of Fungi from various localities," by J. B. Ellis and 

 U. M. Everhart. 



"Critical List of Mollusks collected in the Potomac Valley," by 

 H. A. Pilsbry. 



The Committee on the Hayden Memorial Geological Award 

 reported that the medal and the interest arising from the fund had 

 been this year voted to Thomas Henry Huxley, L. L. D., F. R. S., 

 Professor of Biology in the Koyal College of Science of London. 




1893.] 



NATIHAI- SCIKNCKS OK I'l Ill.A I )KI,I'H I A. 



403 



REPORT OK THE C'OMMITTKE ON THE IIAYDKN MEMORIAL 

 (4EOL()(;l(AL AWARD. 



The Coniniittee ou the Hayrien Geological Memorial Award in 

 fiilfillinu' the trust confided to it hv the Academy recommends that 

 the Hayden ^Memorial Medal and the balance of the interest arisini: 

 from the fund be awarded this year to Thomas Henry Huxley, 

 Ph. D., LL. D., D. C, L., F. K. 8., F. L, S., F. G. S., Professor 

 of Biology in the Ivoyal College of Science of London, in recognition 

 of the great services wliich he has rendered to science and especially 

 to geology, during the long period of his valuable original researches. 

 In doing this the Conunittee is but acting as the agent of the 

 Academy, but it desires in addition and on liehalf of its mendiers 

 whom his labors have assisted and enlightened, to add a tribute of 

 its own to the high scientific value of Dr. Huxley's achievements. 



Pkrsikok Frazer, 



Angelo Heilprin, 



J. Peter Lesley, 



Ben.l Smith. Lyman, 



Cbmmittee. 



IVii/ftanophoni coJnha ii. ^ji. — Mr. H. A. Pilskry exhibited 

 specimens of a minute land snail from Polvon, Nicaragua, which had 

 been for many years in the collection of the Academy under the name 

 Helix iciUiehnI Pfr. He stated that it was not that species, but a 

 new form of the genus T/ii/-miiujihoj<t, lor which the name coloba was 

 pro})osed. He defined the species as follows: 



Sp.fhdv.: — Shell minute, depressed, with slightly cou- 

 oidal spire; thin and fragile, light reddish horn colored. 

 Umbilicus open but narrow, one-sixth the diameter of 

 the base ; whorls 3], convex, the first one smooth, the 

 others very finely and closely striated, the strijie 

 oblique, arcuate, on the last whorl becoming small, 

 wrinkle-like riblets; Under a high magnification (50 

 diameters) an excessively close, fine sculpture of revolv- 

 ing lines becomes visible. A])erture rounded-lunate, 

 ol)ii(jue; lip thin, sharp, the columellar margin dilated. 

 Alt. l"16mm., diam. 1 -^4 mm. The specimens are 

 from Polvon, Nicaragua, collected by the McNeil ex- 

 pedition. This species seems nearly allied to T. (jnatc- 

 iiialnisis C. and F. , but it is much more depressed, 

 more widely und)ilicated and snialler. 



Henry C. fiercer and Susanna M. Gaskell were elected mend)er8. 

 The following were ordered to be printed: — 






404 



PROCEKDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1893. 



DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES OF NORTH AMERICAN MAMMALS 

 WITH REMARKS ON SPECIES OF THE GENUS PEROGNATHUS. 



By SAMUEL X. RHOADS. 



The pocket mouse from Texas here described as new was obtained 

 during the past year by Prof. E. D. Cope and placed in the collec- 

 tion of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



The specimens of Perognathns lordi on which I have leased the 

 duplicate description of that species, so imperfectly characterized by 

 Gray, were taken during a collecting trip in Washington and 

 British Columbia last year, and are included in the author's private 

 collection at the Academy. 



By the i-ediscovery of P. lordi of Gray I am enabled to throw 

 some light on certain questions of synonymy propounded by Dr. 

 Merriam in his monographic revision of the genus.' 



The figure of skull of P. femoralis here given completes the 



illustrations of known species of the genus. 



1. Perognathus copei. s]>. uov. (tyije Xo. 1612, ad. ^, Col. Acad. Xat. Sci., 

 Phila., Staked Plaius near :Mobeetie. Texas. August 26tli, 189.3: col. bv Prof. 

 E. D. Cope). 



Description. — Size small, somewhat greater than Baird's measure- 

 ments of P. Jiavus. Colors similar to Baird's description of P. mon- 



Ears destroyed. Tail thickly covered with 

 coarse hairs, concealing the annuli ; grayish 

 white above, pure white l)elow, with terminal 

 pencil, slightly crested- penicillate. 



Beneath, including whisker patch and feet, 

 white. Upper back and head grizzled blackish 

 fawn, the lilack tips coarsely predominating. 

 Rump and thighs strongly washed with cinna- 

 mon, this color forming a broad posterior band 

 diminishing laterally to a faint line at fore- 

 legs; soles nearly naked, heel clothed with 

 bristly hairs halfway to toes, as in Jiavus; skull 

 similar to f^aviis but longer and narrower, the 



mastoids less pronounced both laterally and 

 Fig. 12 posteriorly, the interparietal a squarish pen- 



ticola but smaller. 



1 X. Amer. Fauua, Xo. 1, 1889. 

 - All figures twice natural size. 




lSi)o.] NATURAL SCIENCKS OF PPIILADELPH I A. 405 



tagonal as iu P. inornatns. In fiavns the coronoid process is short 

 and hhmt, iu copei it is long and sharply attenuate. The condyle 

 in copei extends far beyond the tip of angle and its upper line is 

 horizontal, instead of oblique, as in favus. In the latter the ratio 

 of length to breadth of interparietal is 78, in copei it is 62. 



P. copei belongs to the fascinti(s group of the sub-genus Perog- 

 nathus. 



Measurements.-' — Total length, 114; tail, 49; hind foot, 15. 

 Skull, total length, 19-5: basilar length of Hensel, 14-5; greatest 

 mastoid breadth, 1 ; length of nasals, 7 ; interorbital constriction, 

 4-5; length of mandible, 9-7; height of coronoid process from angle, 

 4-2; ratio of length to breadth of interparietal, 62. 



Remarks. — Dr. Merriam thinks the specimen from Mason, Texas, 

 on w Inch he bases his description and figure of fiavKs in N. Amer. 

 Fauna, No. 1, may possibly not prove typical. In any case it is 

 evident that copei is in no sense identical with it, either cranially or 

 externally. So far as can be determined from Baird's description of 

 fiaviis there is nothing to prove its dissimilai-ity to the Mason specimen, 

 whereas copei shows essential differences from either ; fii*st in color, 

 second in color- pattern, third in hairiness of the tail. 



Baird did not define or figure any cranial characters. The 



specimen of copei was taken by its discoverer from the stomach of a 



rattlesnake captured by him on the eastern slope of the Staked Plains 



near the headwaters of the North Fork of the Red River, in Wheeler 



County, Texas. Owing to its passage through the snake the specimen is 



probably abnormally long. The skull had been forcibly compressed 



but not enough to prevent its restoration as seen in the figure. 



2. I'erognathus lordi (Gray). Ahj-o)iiys lordi Qy-av. Proc. Zool. .Soc Loiuluii. 

 (Ion. May. 1868. 202. (Duplicate type. No. 447, $ ; Col. S. N. Elioads: Vcruou, 

 head of" Lake Okanagan. Hristish ('oliuiil)ia. July 28, 1892; col. hy S. X. R). 



Description. — Size medium, })elage soft, full and silky, ears rather 

 small, tail slightly longer than head and body, sparsely and coarsely 

 haired at base, the hairs longer and more silky toward the slightly- 

 crested- penicillate extremity. Above grayish buff, softly grizzled 

 with black, the individual hairs, as described by Gray, being 

 basally "dark lead color with short gray band and minute 

 (slender J black tip." The feet, lower half of tail, chin, throat, 

 chest and belly and a spot on inferior margin and posterior 



•'All moasurciiients in millinictres. 




406 



PROCEEDINGS (»K TlIK ACADK.MV OK 



[l.si)8. 



V^ 



Fis 



base of ear, white. .Sides of clieek. neck, 

 belly, thighs and tail washed witli pale 

 buff, this color often broadly encroaching 

 upon the pure white ol throat and belly. 

 Upper third of tail colored same as back, 

 darkening to black at the tip. 



Measurements. — Total length, 17!> ; tail, 

 1)2; hind foot, 24; eai", from crown, 4-5. 

 Skull. — Total length, 26; basilar length 

 17 '5 greatest mastoid breadth, 14; 

 length of nasals, 10*7; interorbital con- 

 sti-iction, 6-2; length of mandible, 12; 

 height of coronoid process from angle, 5 "2. 

 Ratio of mastoid breadtli to basilar length, 

 82 ; of mastoid breadth to total length, 

 5.3-9 ; of length to breadth of interparietal, 

 71. Lower premolar larger than the 

 last molar; audital bullae not united by 

 a symphysis but separated by ] mm. anteriorly ; bullae not project- 

 ing beyond ])lane of occiput. 



Remarks. — Eight specimens of this species were trapped on the 

 semi-arid foothills at the head of Lake Okanagan. They abundantly 

 freijuented the open hill.«ides of bunch grass and sage-bush up to 

 timber line and down to near the lake levels, driving their myriad 

 tunnels without difficulty through the dry, indurated and stony soil. 

 Their habits seem to more closely resemble those of Tliomomii^ 

 than any other genus of burrowing rodent. Owing to their halnt of 

 pushing a load of dirt ahead of them it wa? difficult to catch them in 

 their retreats but a trap set by the mouth of certain foraging exits 

 was more successful. In tlie daytime they keep undergi-ound, coming 

 forth nightly to replenisli tlieir larder with the seeds of weeds and 

 grasses. This species was not found in similar localities farther 

 north. It is probably limited to the soutliern parts of the Great 

 Basin fauna of British Columbia as defined by me in the Proceedings 

 of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. l^Ho, page 

 25, aud extends soutli into Northeastern Wasliingtou. It is very 

 doubtful if its habitat reaches farther west than the more arid 

 foothills of the Cascade ^lountains ; the Selkirk Range would form a 

 natural barrier to its dispersion ea.stward. 




1808.] 



NATTER AI. SCIENCES OF PHTI^ADELPHIA. 



407 



3. Perognathus femoralis J. A. Allen. 



I)i*. Allen described this species in 18!)1/ Its cranial characters 

 never having been figured, I take this opportunity of illustrating 

 them from three specimens taken at the type locality during the past 

 year (189o). Femondh differs from its allies /W/Z^.r, califoDticus and 

 (irmafiis in essential cranial peculiarities, as may be seen by a com- 

 parison of the figure with those of Mer- 

 riam. Its skull is most like that of califor- 

 iiicns, from which it diffei's in the square- 

 cornered interparietal, the mastoid and 

 zygomatic breadths being equal and the 

 plane of occiput being on a line with the 

 postero- mastoid angles; the mastoids are 

 relatively larger in femoralis and the 

 coronoid process of mandible is longer 

 and sharply hooked. It may be further 

 remarked that the three California species 

 under consideration are a striking illus- 

 tration of the wonderful fertility of the 

 region they inhabit in the diffei'entiation 

 of species, externally similar, but ana- 

 tomically distinct. P. femoralis probably 

 belongs to the penicilldfus group of the 

 sub-genus CliaiodipKS, as defined by 



%^^ 



Mr. Merriam. 



y^otes oil the Affiiiifies of P('ro(jiiiif/iii--< lordi, P. iiioUipilosiis and 

 Cricetodipiis jxirivis. — In his admirable Revision of the North 

 American Pocket Mice Dr. Merriam enumerates three species whose 

 identity it was then impossible to determine, viz., the Abromijs lordi 

 of Gray, the Perognatlnis mollip'dosns of Coues and the Cricetodipas 

 parrii.s of Fenle. Dr. Merriam, in sunnning up his conclusions, refers 

 to these as follows: "My opinion is that this animal, (P. inollipilo- 

 sus), will prove to be identical with P. lordi and both may be the 

 same as /^ parmis of Peale." In another place (page 27) he states: 

 "all three come from the Pacific province, from Northern C'alifornia 

 northward. ' ' 



Taking the above description oi lordi as a basis, it remains to be 



< Kul. Am. Mils. X. H., Vol. :i No. 2, 281. 




408 proc'p:kijincjs of the acadkjiv ok [181)8. 



decided, (1) whether the British Columbia Pocket Mice taken hv me 

 are identical with the type of lordi. ( 2 ) If so, can the^^ be identical 

 with mollipilosasf (3) What is their relationship to P. montico/a ol 

 Baird? (4) Are any of these the same as Cncetodipiis parvus f (5) 

 To what faunal areas do these species belong? 



(Ij. To the first query I can answer without hesitation in the 

 affirmative. I cannot find the slightest discrepancy between Gray's 

 original description and the specimens from Vernon. This is further 

 confirmed by Mr. Oldfield Thomas's letter quoted by Dr. Merriam 

 iu his remarks on lordi in American Fauna No, 1. 



(2). Perognathus mollipi/osiis differs from lordi in the following 

 particulars : (/, smaller size ; h, tail one-third longer than head and 

 body; c, cinnamon tints; d, color of upper parts descending to 

 wrist ; e, it inhabits a different faunal region. Its only affinities to 

 lordi, so far as can be determined from Coues's description, consist 

 in the non-penicillate tail, soft and smooth pelage, white lower parts, 

 pale fulvous lateral stripe and bicolor tail. In lordi, however, the 

 tail is slightly crested- penicillate aud plainly tricolor, the latter a 

 a peculiarity I have not noticed in any other murine rodent. 



(8). The characters of lordi coincide more closely with those of 

 P. nonticola of Baird and Merriam than with any other. Mr. 

 Thomas wrote Dr Merriam, after examining the type of lonli iu the 

 British Museum, that, "so far as (he could) make out from Coues's 

 description (it) is the same as P. inoitticold/' 



The description of Coues referred to was made on the supposition 

 that a specimen from Fort Crook, California, was the same as Baird's 

 type which is supposed to have come from St. Mary's Mission, Mon- 

 tana. Dr. Merriam refers to this Foil Crook specimen without 

 hesitation as inollipilosus, (Coues's provisional name for it), and says 

 the P. ■iiwuticola oi' Baird "is a very different animal." We have 

 seen that lordi and mollipilosus are not synonymous, aud Dr. Mer- 

 riam thinks iiiiiUipiloxii^ and moiificola are quite di.stinct, while Mr. 

 Thomas thinks the type of lordi answers Coues's hybrid description 

 of moHticolit «'l mollipilosus. 



As the description of monticola has .«everal year's priority over 

 /orr^/ the stability of the latter in our nomeuchiture depends on its 

 S})ecific dissociation from moiificola. That they arc different species 

 I have very little doubt, uotwithstandiug their ap})arent resemblance. 



As compared with lordi, moidicola may be distinguished by a, 




1893.] NATURAL SCIKNCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 409 



smaller size; b, cinuamon of upper parts; c, cinnamon of sides ; d, 

 plumbeous bases of belly hairs; e, outside of foreleg dusky to wrist; 

 /, smaller skull ; (j, mastoids projecting behind plane of occiput ; /(, 

 audital bullae united by an anterior symphysis ; i, relatively broader 

 interparietal; j, shorter and blunter coronoid process; A', lower pre- 

 molar smaller than last molar. 



(4). Having shown that the evidence is against considering lordi, 

 mollipllosus and monticola synonymous and that their closest affinities 

 are not between moUipilosus and lordi, as suggested by Dr. Merriam, 

 but between moUipilosus and mouticola, let us consider their relation- 

 ships to Crlcetodipus parvus. If Peale's "mouse" can ever be proved 

 to be a Perog)iathus I should predict, on geographical grounds, that 

 it is more likely to be the same as mollipilostix than any other of 

 the trio, liut there is strong evidence in Peale's minute description 

 that Cricefodlpiis parvus is not a Perognaf]ni>^ at all, but a suckling 

 Perodipus, or five- toed kangaroo rat. 



This evidence may be briefly summed — a, Dr. Merriam proves it 

 to be, (Amer. Fauna., p. 8), a "very young" animal; see also 

 Baird, (Mam. M. Amer., p. 425); />, "head and body equal ;" pro- 

 portions never (?) seen even in half-grown Pero(/)iat}ius but correlated 

 witli the proportions of adult Perodipus; c, "whiskers numerous, 

 white, a tuft of white hairs or bristles on the chin ;" this tuft is pre- 

 sent in Perodipus aijliix; I do not detect it in Perogiudhux; d, 

 "fore-legs small, feet moderate, * ''' -'^ hind legs long, the feet large 

 and strong, five- toed;" almost the reverse of this obtains in Peroij- 

 in(fliu.-<, the fore feet in that genus being, as compared with the hind 

 ones, unusually large and powerful; r, the very "long hind legs and 

 long tail" are again commented on, "leaving little room to doubt that 

 its hal)its are similar to those of the jumping mice, Merionex lahni- 

 dorivs,'' a comparison not so a[)plicable to a Pocket Mouse as a 

 Kangaroo Hat, in fact not applicable to Perogu(dhux at all, so far as I 

 have examined them; f, the long tail (11 times length of head and 

 body) is applicable to both genera; its absence of ci'est or pencil 

 usually seen in Perodipus may have been due to immaturity : the so- 

 called '' Dipodoiiii/s heenuaniii,'" of Leconte, from the "Sierra 

 Nevada," does not seem to have had the usual penicillate tail : f, 

 "color above, sepia brown, beneath, white, a dark line crosses the 

 cheeks beneath the eyes; " to no specimen or description of Prroyna- 

 flius 1 liave .seen will this characteristic color combination apj)ly, on 

 27 




410 PROfEKDTNGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



the otliei* liaiid it is peculiarly diagnostic of Perodipii.^ from Cali- 

 fornia and Oregon; g, C. parvus came from Oregon; Perodipus has 

 also been taken there and in southeastern Washington but I am not 

 aware of any records of Pero(/naf]iiis from these States. 



If the type of Peale's mysterious rodent, like other priceless and 

 ill-used novelties of tlie Audubonian period, "cannot be found," to 

 disprove the above interpretation, it cannot be denied that there is 

 much evidence in favor of its being the type of a five-toed Kangaroo 

 Rat instead of a five-toed Pocket Mouse. As such, Crlretodipns 

 Peale, 1848, antedates Perodipus Fitzinger, 1867. 



( 5). Dr. Merriam's statement that lordi, mollipilosus and C. parvus 

 all came from the Pacific Province now needs qualification. While 

 this is probably true of the last two, lordi should certainly be assigned 

 to a region quite devoid of the faunal peculiarities of the Pacific 

 slope. 



Previous to my rediscovery of /ordi its precise liabitat in Britisli 

 Columbia could only be conjectured, and so far as it went Dr. Mer- 

 riam's supposition tliat this type came from the West Cascade region 

 was reasonable enough. 



From the nature of its chosen habitat at Vernon, and the absence 

 of a similar environment west of the Cascades it is more than probable 

 that tlie type came from the same region farther south and that the 

 species is essentially a Great Basin form. 



The "following species of North American mammals have recently 

 been added to the collections of the Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia. They were taken by Mr. R. B. Herron, who is at the 

 present time continuing a collecting trip in California in the interests 

 of the Academy. Other novelties which may be taken by Mr. 

 Herron, as well as a circumstantial account of the entire c-ollectious of 

 birds and mammals made by him. will appear in a future number oi' 

 the Proceedings. 



4. Dipodomys simiolus, ' s]>. iiov. ( TvikNo. Kilti. 9 Col. Acad. Nat. Siicnccs. 

 I'liila. : Ajrua Calicntc California. Oct. 19. 1S93. col. by R. B. Herron ). 



Description. — JNIiuature of D. deserti with very similar colors, 

 CO I or- pattern and proportions. No white terminal pencil, tlie dark 



•^ Si'mi an ape or mimic ; olus diminutive. 




l-'^'U').] XArCHAL SCIKXOKS OK I'M I LADKIJ'II [ A. 4H 



ashy upper fourth of tail extending to tip; a faint streak of brownish- 

 black on under side of middle third of tail disappearing toward either 

 extremity. Soles scarcely darker than white feet. Tail strongly 

 crested-penicillate, the vertel)ne one and one- half times as long a^ 

 head and body. General shade of upper parts slightly darker tlian in 

 (leserfl, inclining to cinnamon on rump in adults. 



Measurements. — Total length, 241 ; tail vertebra', 149; pencil, o5 ; 

 liind foot, 08; ear from crown (dry; i». Skull — Basilar length, 

 21 -S; mastoid breadth, 24; iuteorbital constriction, 14-."); length 

 of nasals, lo; length of mandible to base of incisor, 13"H ; height 

 of coronoid process from angle, o-6. 



Six specimens were taken, all in the Mohave Desert at Agua 

 Caliente. The average measurements are less than those given 

 above. This species is easily distinguishable from deserti by small 

 size, slightly darker coloration and lack of white tip to tail ; from 

 >'('»n7/.s' by its lack of black on rump, tail, soles and hind legs. 



.">. Dipodomys similis, sp. iiov. (Type Xo. 1017. P Col. Acad. Nut. .Sciences. 

 I'liila.: Wliitc Water. Sun Diego Co., Califoniia. "Oet. 24. 1893. col. by E. B- 

 Herroii ). 



Description. — In size and color pattern almost an exact counter- 

 [)art of Perodlp\ix (i(/{/is. Colors similar to 1). >/»a'o///.s and D. 

 deserti but darker than either and with tail and lind)S relatively 

 shorter than the latter. Above light tawny tipped and lined 

 Sparingly with blackish, the latter color more pronoiniced on rump. 

 Posterior surface of thigh to heel, soles, ring around eyes, base of 

 whiskers, tO)) of nose and upper and lower fourths of tail to tip, 

 blackish. The remainder of body wliite, including small spot above 

 eye, a larger one at [posterior base of ears and stripe across thighs. 

 Ears grayish. Tail crested-penicillate. 



Measurements. — Total length, 241; tail vertebras 14.'); pencil, 

 2."); hind foot, -l^ , ear (dry) above crown, lO-o. Skull — basilar 

 length, 22; mastoid breadtli, 24-r); interorbital constriction 14; 

 length of nasal.*, 14; height of coronoid process from angle, ■"). Skull 

 similar to that oi' .■<iiiil()it(K but with smaller mastoids and wider across 

 ante-orbital processes of maxillary. In .s'/i/t/V/.^- the lower premolar is 

 narrower anteriorly than ])o.*teriorlv and as long as wide, in ■■<iiiu'(>/u.-< 

 it is of e<pial width on both faces and much wider than long. In 

 siml/ls the extremity of angle of mandible is prolonged and acum- 

 inate, in ^'iniiohis it is sliorter and rounded at the extremity. 




412 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OK [1893. 



A male aud female from White Water on the western side of 



Mohave Desert represent the species. They are alike in all im})or- 



tant respects. 



I). Perognathus alticolus, sp. nov. (T>'pe Xo. 1615. $ , Col. Acad. Xat. Scieuces, 

 Phila.; San Beruardiuo Mts., California. Sept. 22. 1893, col. by R. B. Herron). 



Description. — Most similar to P. apache and P. iitornatus, differ- 

 ing cranial ly, aud in larger size from either, less yellow than apache 

 and more decidedly lined with black than inoniatus. Size small, 

 tail equals length of head aud body, or longer, slightly crested 

 penicillate. Above yellowish brown heavily but finely lined with 

 blackish. Pelage very soft aud full. Bases of hairs above plumb- 

 eous for three-fourths their length. A tawny lateral stripe from 

 nose to aud including upper half of tail. Distal third of tail above 

 becoming l)lackish. One- fourth of heel end of soles, haired. Lower 

 parts, feet, fore legs aud lower edge of ear white to roots of pelage. 



Measurements (from dry skin). — Total length, 157; tail vertebra', 

 77; pencil, 9; hind foot, 20; ear from crown, •"). Skull — Basilar 

 length, 16; mastoid breadth, 12-5: interorbital constriction, 6; 

 length of nasals, 8-6; length of mandible, 10-5; height of coronoid 

 process, 4'6. 



Cranially ultlco/ns may be distinguished from both its allies by the 

 well defined separation of audital bullae below. Its lower premolar 

 is similar to that of inoniatus, but the mastoids of the latter are very 

 much larger than those of alticolus. The same may be said of apache. 

 P. alticolus belongs to the /ascia^HS group of the subgenus Perogna- 

 thus. 



Skull figures of this species autl the two Dipodomijs above described 

 will probably appear in the final report of Mr. Herron' s collection.s. 




1893.] XATI'HAJ- SCIENCES OF PHI I,A DKI.PH I A. 41o 



GEOGRAPHIC VARIATION IN BASSARISCUS ASTUTUS. WITH 

 DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SUBSPECIES. 



By SAMUEL X. EHOADS. 



The recent accession of three specimens of B(i.<mrlscits^ to the 

 museuni of the Wagner Free Institute of Science in Philadelpliia 

 makes four individuals of the genus known to have heeen taken 

 in the State of Oregon. 



The first record was made by Dr. Coues in the American 

 Naturalist in 1878. This specimen was taken in southwest Oregon 

 on the Rogue River; the rest were captured by Mr. Geo. Kenzer 

 near Grant's Pass in Josephine County, a tew years ago. Thev 

 were mounted by him, and, since arriving in Philadelphia, two of 

 them have been remounted and their skulls removed for examina- 

 tion. 



Antedating these, the most northern records, we have the state- 

 ment of George Gibbs, Esq., in the Natural History of Washington 

 Territory, that in 18,52 he "found their skins quite conunon- on the 

 Lower Klamath River" but we have no positive evidence that any of 

 the skins were taken on that part of the Klamath River lying north 

 of California. 



The dark colors of the Rogue River specimen are commented on 

 by Dr. J. A. Allen in his paper "On the Species of the Genus 

 Hassaris"" as follows: "The extremes of variation in color are in 

 si^ecimens No. 11,84!* from Camp (^rant, Arizona (E. Palmer) and 

 No. 12,849, from Oregon (A. H. Wood). The Arizona specimen is 

 pale brownish gray above, varied with blackish principallv along 

 the median line, caused by the black tips of the long hair. Below, it 

 is pale yellowish white. The tail is mostly white below but above 

 is crossefl by alternate rings of black and white of nearlv equal 

 breadth. The Oregon specimen has the prevailing tint of the dorsal* 

 region intense black, quite obscuring the brownish gray ground color. 

 Below, it is strongly brownish yellow, deepest on the throat and chin. 



I J>'tiss(iri.\ .if Liclil(iist<-in. Is:>7 (ls:5()) |in(i(rii|iic.l ))y Ih/s.uir/s. Hiilmcr I81(i. 

 Sfc Science. No!. !l. ISST. V. .")!(;. 

 -Art. Will I'.ull. r. S. (le.il. Siir. Terr, LS'iJ. 




414 l'f!(K KKDINOS OF TffK ACADK.-MV ol- [189'). 



The tail is inostly black above, the white being mostly half-rings con- 

 fined to the lower surface. These two specimens accord with the 

 peculiar phases of geographical color-variation commonly character- 

 izing the mammals and birds of the two regions in question. Should 

 the Oregon specimen here described prove to indicate the average 

 condition of the specie* along the Pacific coast to the northward, as 

 seems probable, the form there prevailing may require to be 

 varietally distinguished under the name raptor Baird, this name 

 doubtless referring to the Pacific coast form as already explained. 

 Five specimens from near the southern border of Texas agree in 

 being rather darker than the Arizona specimen and present only a 

 mo<lerate range of color variation." 



The three additional specimens from ( Jrant's Pass sufficiently con- 

 firm the color characters alluded to by Dr. Allen to make the 

 question of subspecific sej)aratiou worth careful consideration. With 

 this in view I have, through the courtesy of Mr. F.W. True, secured 

 the loan of the Smithsonian Institution series of B(iS'<((ri.sciis axfidns. 

 The series consists of eighteen specimens; of the.«e the majority are 

 hunters, or flat skins, lacking skulls. Skulls accompany eight, 

 measurements and data, five, and the whole series is labeled with the 

 locality of capture. 



Beside these and the ( )regon specimens, I have examined four in 

 the museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences, making a total of 

 twentv-five. Among them is the type, skin and skull, of Baird's ' B. 

 raptor.' A most valuable and important addition to the series con- 

 sists in a set of five (2 <?s, 2 9s and 1 juv. S i finely prepared skins 

 and skulls from Cuernavaca, ^lorelos, Mexico, taken in 1892, by 

 Mr. P. L. Jouy. 



Apart from their excllent preservation and full data these speci- 

 mens are unique in being the only ones in the series taken in the 

 southernmost range of B. (isfiitii.% where it overlaps the habitat of />. 

 .■<iiinichra--<fl. 



We must first determine from what locality came the type speci- 

 mens of astutii-!. Lichtenstein .states in his description that these 

 were sent to the l>erlin ^lu.^euni by one Dr. Deppe during the 

 residence of the latter in ^Mexico. We are left to our imagination 

 as to the precise locality of Dr. Deppe's residence, and, while it is 

 reasonable to believe that the type specimens were taken in the 

 "vicinitv" and that it is very probable the doctor "practised" 




1^93.] NATIKAL SCTKXrKS OK I'Hl r.Ar>Kr,I'II I A. 415 



south of the twentieth parallel in those early days, direct evidence 

 is wautiug. 



But we have in Lichtenstein's conscientious description and plate 

 oi' astntiis in Darstellungen der Saugethiere der zoologisohe Museum, 

 (1827-34, pi. 43; so exact a reproduction of the peculiarities of 

 the C'uernavaea specimens taken by Mr. Jouy as to leave us in no 

 reasonable doubt that the type of a.'^fufii!^ came from southern ^Mexico. 

 Lichtenstein's description makes no allusion to variations from the 

 type in the numerous examples at his disposal. If however, we 

 com])are therewith specimens from northern Mexico northward we 

 find an increasing departure from the characters assigned to typical 

 t(.ifiifns until, in the Oregon examples, we have a form to all appear- 

 ances quite distinct. 



It is quite proper that the two should be separated, perhaps 

 specifically, though there is some pi'obability that a complete series 

 will insensibly connect the two extremes. Such cranial differences 

 as I iiave detected may all come within the range of individual and 

 geographic variation. At any rate the skull series is too incomplete 

 as yet for a decided answer. 



In either case the question arises as to the tenability of the name 

 'raptor'' for the northern form. It was originally proposed for a 

 Pacific Coast species. 



The value of the name is, in the first place, lessened by the fact 

 that it was applied to an animal escaped from confinement in the east 

 and "supposed" to come from California. 



The distinctive characters assigned to 'raptor' by Baird are: a, 

 small number of black rings on tail and of greater extent compared 

 with white rings ; h, black rings nearly complete below ; e, no 

 difference in colors of remaining j)arts of body ; d, ears decidedly 

 smaller ; ^, cranium I)roader, more constricted behind post-orbital 

 processes;/, temporal crests closer together; g. ])terygoids farther 

 apart; /), rati(j of greatest breadth to length 63 to 100 instead of 59, 

 as in a female from Texas. Dr. Allen has shown, and the series in 

 my possession verifies his view, that these cranial differences are 

 accountable to age, sex and individual variation. The skull of 

 raptor is nearly duplicated by No. 35,254 from Texas. I find that in 

 onlv one respect, the relative width of white and black tail- rings does 

 Baird's diagnosis as given above ai)ply to the Pacific coast form as 

 contrasted with those from Texas. lUit even in this particular 




416 l'U(K'KEI)lN(iS OK TJIK ACADEMY oJ- [1893. 



typical B. astutiis is very variable. I tliei-efore propose, for the 

 Bassarisk of Northern Mexico aud the United States the name 

 Bassariscii-< astvfiis fin cits. Should the so-called asfutns of the United 

 States and northern Mexico prove a distinct sjiecies, the small, dark 

 coast form from northern ('aliforuia northward (not of central and 

 southern California) should be made a sub-species oi tennis. In that 

 i-ase it should be called Brisxuriscii.^ fianis oregoniis.' It is possible 

 that Dr. Merriam has enough material in his custody to decide the 

 (juestion at an early date. 



So far as they may now ])e distiniiuished, the Civet Cats belonging 

 to the iistiitiis group are characterized : 

 1. Bassariscus astutus ( Lic-ht. I 



I)escrij)ti()u. — Size lai'ge, fur scant and harsh. Tail vertebnc 

 lonuer than head and body, 14 to 16- ringed exclusive of tip, black 

 rinu'S below interrupted by a broad, continuous mesial band. 



Upper parts of body uniform blackish gray, often tinged with 

 pale fulvous on sides of rump an<l belly, the black hairs of the dorsal 

 region disappearing laterally. Under parts clear gray with dirty, 

 pale yellowish suffusion. Underiur and roots of hairs ashy. A 

 roundish spot above the eye, a larger one beneath it and a semilunar 

 si)Ot at the entrance of ear, white. Top of head, forehead, band 

 around nose and soles of hind feet, blackish. Skull large, sti'ong 

 and angular; zygomatic fossic wide and deep; post- orlntal processes 

 small and deflected downwards ; rostrum broad, canines widely sepa- 

 rated ; saiiittal crest well developed in adult males, frontal bones 

 narrowed and long-waisted behind tlie supraorbital processes ; canines 

 sulcate on the inner- })osterior and anterior edges above, on the 

 anterior edge below. 



Measurements. — Total length, (Jouy. ) <S()2 to 855, (Licht.) 850; 

 tail (Jouy) 360 to 420, (Licht.) o68 ; hind foot, (Jouy) 76 to 79 

 (Licht.) 72; length of ear (Jouy) 45 to 49, (Licht.) 84(?) ; breadth 

 of ear, (Jouy) 52 to 59, (Licht.) 25(?). 



(^1^^]1_ — Total length, 82 to 87 ; greatest breadth 58-5 to 59. 

 Interorbital constriction 17' from tip to tip of postorbital processes 

 27. Taken from adult male skull. 



The above is about equivalent to a translation of Lichtenstein's 

 two original descriptions oi' ((■■<futii'i. The cranial diagnosis is chiefly 



^The tyjie will bo Ni>. l.iiU. Col. Academy of Natural Sciencos of Phila. 




1898.] XATIHAI. SCIKXCKS OK IM 11 LA DKLPII F A. 417 



based on the four adult skulls of the C'uernavaca specimens. The 

 variability in the width of the pterygoids is striking-, the two female 

 skulls showing the greatest width in this respect. In one of them it 

 is nearly as great as in the skull of " raptor. " The same variability 

 is seen in fianiK, but in two instances the widely separated pterygoids 

 are present in male skulls, showing the peculiarity has no sexual 

 significance. In two of the Cuernavaca specimens the up))er termi- 

 nal fourth (127 to 150 mm.) of the tail is wholly black, the remain- 

 der about equally white- and- l)lack- ringed above. In this variation 

 there is an approach to sitmiclirdsfl but the color of the under side of 

 the tail in dstiitus is in quite the opposite direction, being as broadly 

 white as in any examples of fix r us. 



In general terms (/■•<( iit us may be distinguished from ffurus bv its 

 greater size, light gray colors of uniform distril)ution, the total lack 

 or slight trace of fulvous admixture, paleness of the fur at base and 

 the scantiness and harshness of the pelage. 



2. Bassariscus astutus flavus, subsp. iiov. (Typf No. 972 Col. Academy of 

 Natural Scieuces of Phihi. ; Texas, 18tjl, t-ol. l)y i)r. Heennanu). 



Description. — 8ize smaller ; fur long, full and soft. Tail verte- 

 brte somewhat shorter than head and body, tail 14 to 16 ringed 

 exclusive of black tip, the black rings often nearly encircling it, (in 

 the Oregon series the three terminal black rings completely encircle 

 tail). Upper part of body blackish tawny, blackest medially, 

 yellowest laterally. Top of head and neck like middle of back. 

 L'nder parts tawny, lightest on throat and neck, uiiderfur and roots 

 of body hairs everywhere sooty. Spots above and below eyes and at 

 entrance of ear, tawny, the blackish mai-kings of face indistinct or 

 obsolete. 



Skull smaller, rounded, the zygoma' relatively narrower pos- 

 teriorly, postorbital processes relatively wider apart, closely 

 approached posteriorly by the forward development of the brain case 

 the temporal bone widening suddenly at or near this point and 

 rarely showing the waist- like configuration of asfufus, rostrum short 

 and tapering, the canines lying well within its contour as viewed 

 from above, sagittal crest absent, canines less sulcate, groove disap- 

 pearing in Oregon specimens. 



Measurements. — Total length, 680 to 800; tail, o04 to :\S{) ; 

 hind foot, 55 to 60 ; size of ears undeterminable. 



Skull. — Total length, 80, greatest breadth, 50; interorbital con- 

 striction, 20 ; tip to tip of postorbital processes, SO. 




418 PROCEKmXOR OF I'HK A( ADKMY OF [189o. 



The rauge in the variation of external characters among the 

 Bassarisks from northern Mexico and the United States, excluding 

 the Oregon specimens, is not great, but variation in the size and pro- 

 portions of the skull in animals of the same age and sex from a 

 stated locality (Texas) is perplexing, seeming to connect flurus with 

 typical adufii.'<. 



Color characters and l)ody measurements on the other hand are 

 constant enough to establish their title to separate specific rank. 



Some cranial points seem to confirm this view, the molar dentition 

 of the two forms, however, is identical. A bona- fide Califbrnian 

 specimen is as light-colored or lighter than Baird's pseudonymous 

 one, the latter (whose sole claim on our notice consists in its bare 

 name) sharing the same characteristic tawny seen in darkest Texan 

 examples. The light hued C'amp Grant specimen, mentioned ( -^mpra 

 cif.) by Dr. Allen is in all respects only a small, pa.\e finrus. 



The Oregon series on the other hand are almost as different, 

 externally, from average Texas skins as the latter are from true 

 astiifuK. The diminutive size, brownish black color, nearly black 

 upper tail, completeness of the terminal black rings mesially, etc. 

 are subspecific characters apparently separating ore(io)iiis from its 

 nearest conueners in the Inited States. 




1 H9;>. ] XATIHAI, SCIKXCKS OF IM I I LA I )i:i.l'l I I A . 419 



ON SOME LEECH-LIKE PARASITES OF AMERICAN CRAYFISHES. 

 By J. PERCY MOORE. 



Ill IIS;")! Dr. Leidy described in the Proceedings oftliis Academy 

 the external characters of A.sfacohdel/a philadejphicn, which he 

 found occupying generally the exterior of ('anihnnis Ixirfoiiii. This 

 account was quoted in full in the Synopsis of .\nierican Freshwater 

 Leeches published in 1^74 by Verrill, who adds no observations of 

 his own. Other tlian tliese the writer is acquainted with no 

 published accounts of American Discodrilida- (Vejdovsky). At- 

 tracted by the peculiar structure, the uncertain affinities, and most 

 of all, by the remarkable variability of these parasites, a score 

 of zoologists have been led to contril)ute to our knowledge of 

 the Euro|)ean forms. The question of the specific distinctness or 

 unity of the several forms which take up tlieir abode on Asfacnx 

 j{.iirlafih(ii has led to consideral)le discussion, which has not yet 

 reached a definite settlement. \'ejdovsky l)elieves the three or 

 four forms which have l)een described as distinct species to be but 

 varieties of one extremely variable species — a view to which a strong 

 support is lent by the elaborate tables of variations prepared by 

 Voigt. Whitman has found living on the crayfishes of Japan a 

 similar multiplicity of forms, which have been regarded as constitut- 

 ing three distinct species, but which have not, the writer believes, 

 been described. 



It now appears that our American crayfishes likewise carry about 

 with them a heterogeneous burden of leech- like parasites (or mess- 

 mates?). Our common Cambarus hartonU, for example, is affected by 

 at least four forms, which are easily distinguished, and which will be 

 here described as specifically distinct. Other and different forms have 

 been found by the writer on C. affini^ and on C. which in- 

 habits the larger mountain streams of western North Carolina. These 

 being the facts, the writer thought it well to present for publication 

 the present short account, which is entirely preliminary to a more 

 complete discussion of the structure and affinities of the.se Annulata, 

 the first instalment of which will soon appear. It is hoped that this 

 paper will serve to direct tlie attention of zoologists to this neglected 




420 PKOCKKDINOS OF THE ACADEMY Ol- ' [189.'5. 



group, and lead to the collectioD of the numerous forms which it 

 seems reasonable to suppose must attach themselves to the bodies of 

 our many species of crayfish. The monographic study of such a 

 group as this would doubtless furnish us with data of great value in 

 the consideration of our theories of variation. The writer would he 

 especially indebted to anyone who will kindly furnish him with 

 material collected in other localities or from other species of crayfish. 



Regarding the specific distinctness of the forms here described it 

 may be said that the writer has examined several hundred sj^ecimens 

 ranging in size and age from individuals just emerged from the 

 cocoon to those of the largest dimensions, and while each species ex- 

 hibits a considerable range of variation (which will form the subject 

 matter of a subsequent })aper), no important transitional forms have 

 been discovered, the diagnostic characters here given being main- 

 tained with as much constancy as is usual amongst closely allied 

 animal species. 



Even should the views of Vejdovsky and Voigt prove to be 

 correct for the European species, which seems probable, this would 

 in no way affect the status of the American forms ; for other cases are 

 not wanting where a group of animals which in one region is 

 represented In' a single variable species, in another has numerous 

 specific representatives. This would then be only another fact in 

 support of the view, now almost universally conceded, that species are 

 but more widely separated varieties, which under the stress of changing 

 conditions have continued to diverge from a common origin. Indeed, 

 it is not certain that these species should be placed in the same genus 

 even, for they are distinguished from one another by anatomical char- 

 acters of such importance as would, in some groups of animals, rank of 

 generic value. The several species are here referred to the single genus 

 BranchiobdeJIa chiefly because the writer is uncertain as to the legiti- 

 mate limits of a genus in zoology, and because in this preliminary paj)er 

 it is sufficient to recognize the existence of distinct forms without 

 attempting to fix the exact conventional value of the gap which 

 separates them — a labor which belongs more rightly to the system- 

 atist, whose work of sorting and arranging would be quite premature 

 in a group of which only a very small portion of the probable 

 number of existing species have been examined. Moreover it should 

 be borne in mind that much confusion has resulted from the un- 

 necessarv multiulicatiou of genera. 




189o. ] NATURAI. SCTENCKS OF PHTLADELPHIA. 421 



The four species of Bnnichiohdclla here considered aji-ree with one 

 another, and differ from the Euro|)ean species (7>. rariaiis of Voiirt 

 = B. asfaci Oilier, + jxiraslfd Braun, + p('iif(>di)iit<i Wliitnian, + 

 hexodoiifa Gruber) in the possession of two pairs of vasa deferentia, 

 in the fifth and sixth post-cephalic seaments ; while B. ('(trieiiK, as 

 described bv Dorner. whose account I have not seen corrected, has 

 but one jjair. 



Our four species aroup themselves somewhat naturally in psiirs. IL 

 j)lill(iilrlplilca and B. ilhniiinnfd agree in the terete cross-section of the 

 body, the posteriorly directed posterior sucker, the common- external 

 openina- by means of a vesicle (which is pulsatile in 7>. jihila- 

 (Iclpliicd, at least) of the anterior pair of nephridia, and the unlike 

 form of the dorsal and ventral jaws. B. pulchen-'nmi and B. 

 iiidabiJIa ayree in havina' the body depressed and more or less laterally 

 expanded posteriorly, in the ventral direction of the face of the 

 sucker, the distinct external openings of the anterior two nephridia, 

 and the similar dorsal and ventral jaws. The second group is much 

 more closely allied to the European forms. 

 Branchiobdella illuminata, sj). uov. 



Fig. 111., Plate XII, external outline of the animal of its usual 

 resting form, showing also the outline of the alimentary canal, the 

 principal trunks of the vascular system, the series of clear glands of 

 the right side, and the conmion nephridial vesicle opening to the 

 exterior on the dorsum of the third post-cephalic segment, x'i.'i. drawn 

 from a living pecimen. Fig. lb, the two jaws in normal relative 

 positions, x400. Fig. Ir, outline of a cocoon, x4.5. 



This species has been named iJhnniiKifn in allusion to the double 

 series of clear glands which in mounted specimens viewed by trans- 

 mitted light ajjpear like rows of pale-lighted lamps. 



I^ody very slender in complete extension, but robust in contrac- 

 tion, tapering from the seventh segment very gently toward the head, 

 and suddenly to the posterior sucker ; terete in ti'ansverse section in 

 all regions, lii-aunulation of segments very conspicuous throughout 

 the entire length. Posterior sucker small and weak, on the same 

 axis as the body segment. Head small, sletuler, and elongated; the 

 post-oral part distinctly bi-anuulate. Lips long and weak, of nearly 

 equal size ; ridged within by longitudinal folds. Mouth opening 

 with its longest diameter transverse. No circumoral or other luiirs 

 have been detecte<l in the adults of tiiis species ; and in the young a 




422 ]'H<)(KKI)IX(;S OF THK ACADK.MV 1)1" [1^ 5'-^ 



single small hunch in the ineiliun reiiion of each lip is all that is 

 )) resent. 



The jaws are remarkable, and althouiih lariie, are inconspicuous 

 on account of their transparency and lack of color. On the dorsal 

 one, which is much the larger, a high median ridge is developed, 

 which liears three strong teeth, the points of which are directed 

 posteriorly fdown the throat). The ventral jaw is shaped like a U 

 each limb of which is bent out of the common plane into a boomerang 

 shape. The angle of the boomerang on each side is uppermost and 

 bears a very strong curved tooth, the two bounding a tleej) groove 

 which accommodates the dorsal dentigerous ridge. 



The stomach is comparatively small, and behind it the evenly 

 tubular inte-stine is thrown into loops, which l)ecome more obvious 

 with the greater degree of contraction of the animal. 



In connection with the vascular system is developed a reniarkal)le 

 shallow sinus which covers almost the entire surface of the alimentary 

 canal. This presents dorsal and ventral longitudinal enlargements 

 into which the principal vascular trunks are received. The extensive 

 vascular surface with the contained bright red blood thus i)resented 

 gives the animals a delicate pinkish hue which distinguishes living 

 individuals at a glance from the other species herein descril>ed. 



In each of the nine post-cephalic segments is a pair of peculiar 

 translucent glandular bodies composed of large nucleated cells, and 

 communicating with the exterior by slender ducts having ventro- 

 lateral openings. 



The anterior two nephridia open into a gourd-shaped vesicle having . 

 an opening to the exterior in the mid-dorsal region of the major 

 annulus of the third segment. The spermatheca is short, cylindrical 

 and bifid : the penis-sac short-pedicled and spherical, and the atrium 

 clavate and curved. The spermatheca, penis, ovaries, posterior paired 

 nephridia and anus open respectively on the fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth 

 and ninth post-cephalic segments. Length of full grown individuals, 4 

 mm., niaximuiu diameter ( 7th segment ) •!• nun., diameter of aceta- 

 bulum 'o") mm. The figure represents an individual of maximum 

 size. 



The cocoon is regularly ellipsoidal in shape and bears an anchoring 

 pedicle at each pole of the major axis. Length of cocoon, ••").> mm., 

 diameter. •40 mm., length of pedicles, -'.VA nun. 



This s|)ecies is verv connuou and has been found in the l>ranchial 




189.').] XATCHAL SCJENC'ES OK PHILADKIJMI I A. -42o 



chamber of nearly one-half of the larger individuals of < '. haiiunii 

 tliat I have examined. It appears never to leave the branchial 

 chamber during the life of the crayfish, except at the time ot moult. 

 The cocoons are found tliroughout tlie year attached to the branchial 

 tilaments, esi)ecially the inner ones. Philadelphia, Pa. and Watauga 

 Co., North Carolina. 



B. pulcherrima, sp. nov. 



Fig. 2«, Plate XII, outline of the entire animal as seen from the 

 side, showing the adhesive organs on the eighth and ninth segments. 

 x2o. Fig. 'lb, the same specimen from the dorsal aspect, with an outl 

 ine of the alimentary canal, x23. These drawings are from a 

 medium sized preserved specimen. Fig. 'Ic, one of the jaws of the usual 

 form, xliOO. Fig. "If, a cocoon, x4."). 



The beautiful transparency of the anterior segments, which enables 

 one to see with great distinctness the internal organs of that region 

 suggested the name given to this species. 



Form rather stout, the l)ody depressed, especially in the posterior 

 region. The segments increase regularly in width to the seventh, 

 which is the broadest; and behind which they rapidly narrow to the 

 acetabulum. Each post-cephalic segment consists of an anterior 

 larger and a posterior smaller annulus. The ventral surfaces of the 

 eighth and ninth segments ai'e strongly flattened, and each bears on 

 its extreme lateral margins a cup-shaped adhesive organ, into the 

 central depression of which a conspicuous gland opens. These are 

 directed ventralward and doulitless serve as accessory organs of 

 attachment to aid the rather weak sucker. Those on the eighth 

 segment are usually the larger, but a considerable range of variation 

 is exhibited in this respect. The structures become proportionally 

 larger and more conspicuous in older individuals. 



The head is urn-shaped, slightly longer than broad in j)reserved 

 s])ecimens, and its greatest width less than or just equal to that of the 

 first body segment. The breadth of the head varies greatly with the 

 degree of contraction of the specimen, but m the living individual 

 always ai)pears narrow, and to form part of the generally even 

 tapering outlines of the l)ody, never abruptly expanded as in />'. 

 hixfdhUiii. The oral region is separated from the cephalic region In 

 a deep constriction, which completely encircles the head. The 

 mouth is envel()p('(l bv a ])air (dorsal and vt'Utral ) of distinct thick 




424 PKOCEEIWNGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



muscular lips, of which the dorsal oue is the larijrer and droops down- 

 ward, partially enclosing the ventral lij). Each presents a slight 

 median emargination, but is otherwise entire. The lips and head, as 

 well as the sides of the principal annuli of the body, are provided 

 with a fringe of delicate hairs. Mouth (j]>euing nearly circular, be- 

 tween the parted lips. 



The jaws are small and inconspicuous, in adult specimens less than 

 one-twelfth of the width of the head, and of a pale brown or amber 

 color. The rounded base bears three teeth, of which the larger 

 lateral ones are stout, curved, and flivergeut, while the smaller 

 median one is straight and sharp- pointed. The variations in the jaws 

 involve frequent unsymmetrical development of the teeth. The 

 dorsal and ventral jaws are similar, and both are fixed opposite to the 

 constriction behind the lips, the teeth being directed inward. 



The straight alimentary canal is strongly sacculated in the second, 

 third and fourth segments, behind which it is narrow, and direct in 

 its course to the anus, which opens on a slight papilla on the dorsal 

 side of the ninth segment. 



The greater part of the body cavity of the fifth and sixth segments 

 is filled with testicular cells in various stages of development; and 

 the glandular thickening of the skin of these segments renders the 

 walls conspicuously opaque. The two pairs of vasa deferentia open 

 into the nearly spherical atrium in the sixth segment. A conspic- 

 uous and broadly pyi'iform spermatheca opens on the fifth seg- 

 ment. The ovaries and accessory structures occu})y the seventh. 

 The anterior ne])hridia alternate in position, but open to the exterior 

 by paired orifice,- in segment three. The ])osterior paired nephridia 

 occupy the space on each side of the intestine in segment eight. 



This species is colorless and more or less ti'anslucent ; the first four 

 segments behind the head are remarkably clear and translucent, but 

 behind this the body walls are rather opaque and the position of the 

 internal organs obscured. The alimentary canal is throughout darkly 

 colored, except within the head. 



Blood verv pale red. 



Length ot mature individuals . . . . (i nnn. 



Maximum breadth l-.'> •' 



Width of jaws- •()()" 



Diameter of acetabulum -(i •' 




1893.] XATIKAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 425 



Cocoons of this species are almost spherical and are borne on short 

 stout stalks. Usually they are attached to the broad surfaces of the 

 body, i. e., the sides of the carapace, inner faces of the anterior 

 abdominal epimera, and the sternal face of the tail fin. 



Length of cocoon without stalk "46 mm. 



The adults are found attached almost anywhere on the exterior of 

 the crayfish but more especially on the tergal surface. 

 Watauga Co. North Carolina, on Cambaru-< bartonii. 



B. instabilia, sp. nov. 



Fig. o«, Plate XII, an unusually large individual seen from the 

 ventral side, showing the outlines of body and alimentary canal. 

 Drawn from a living individual in nearly full extension, x25. 



Fig. Sb, and 3e, two views of the jaws, x200. 



Fig. 3e, a cocoon, x45. 



The constant movements of the lips, and the varying form of the 

 head and segments succeeding it during the life of the animal make 

 the name instabilia, the changeable, most appropi'iate. 



Body in a state of contraction very short and stout, the posterior 

 four segments forming a flattened disk- shaped expansion which is 

 scarcely longer than broad ; the first four body segments are much 

 more narrow, but increase somewhat in breadth to the fourth, pos- 

 terior to which the increase is very rapid to the seventh ; the eighth 

 is slightly narrower and develops lateral wing-like flaps, which, 

 sloping ventralward, bound a decided ventral concavity in this 

 region ; posteriorly they embrace the sucker-bearing segments. The 

 head and anterior segments are terete. Under normal conditions the 

 large head is considerably broader than the following segments, 

 which form a neck- like constriction, to which the head is attached by 

 a very mobile fold, forming a distinct annul us. The emarginated 

 lips are slightly crenulated, and form an almost continuous muscular 

 thickening around the mouth. The post- oral constriction is well 

 marked, but not so deep as in B. pukherrima. Numerous short 

 stiff hairs fringe the lips and head, and in young individuals are 

 present on the body segments also. 



The dark brown jaws are provided with four strong, curved, 

 conical teeth, which diverge slightly ; the outer pair are symmetrical, 

 the left tooth of the middle pair is much larger than the right; this 

 28 




426 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



being the case in both jaws in nearly all of the many specimens ex- 

 amined. 



The acetabulum resembles that of B. pulcherrima in bsing 

 directed ventralward. Its diameter is greater than that of the first 

 or second body segments. Bi-annulation is conspicuous on the 

 anterior four post-cephalic segments only. 



The alimentary canal is strongly sacculated in the fourth and fifth 

 segments, in the sixth is pushed to the left side by the development 

 of the atrium (this occurs in adults only), in the seventh is 

 thrown into a complete double transverse loop which passes first to 

 the right and then to the left, and finally passes directly to the anus 

 in the ninth body segment. The spermatheca is very small and in- 

 conspicuous, while the penis- sac is well developed, and possesses 

 a long vermiform appendage (atrium) which forms a loop dorsally 

 over and around the intestine. Sexual and nephridial openings as 

 in B. pulcherrima. 



In contraction the body of this species is shaped like a short- 

 handled raquet; in extention it has the outline of an Indian club from 

 dorsal and ventral views. 



Length of mature animal 5 "5 mm. 



Maximum breadth, 1 "S " 



Diameter of acetabulum -5 " 



Transverse diameter of jaw "048 " 



Length of cocoon without pedicle ... "35 " 



The cocooDS resemble those of the last described species, but are 

 frequently provided with an apical fibrous tuft. They are invari- 

 ably attached (to the extent of my experience) to the palmar surface 

 of the propodite of the great chela?. The animals themselves are 

 largely restricted in their distribution to the same segments of the 

 limb, and are usually to be found in numbers clustered at the base 

 of the pincers to which position the form of the body peculiarly 

 adapts them ; for while the constricted anterior region, by reason of its 

 tenuity, easily escapes crushing between the closing limbs of the chela, 

 in which jxtsition it is frequently liable to be caught, the important 

 organs of reproduction and digestion are massed together near the base 

 of attachment, entirely out of reach of danger from this source. Fre- 

 quently they wander to other parts of the same pair of limbs, or even 

 to the two pairs of ambulatory limbs following. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 427 



Watauga Co,, North Carolina, and by Mr. P. P. Calvert in 

 Delaware Co., Penna. 



B. philadelphica Leidv. Astacobdclla pliiladelphica Leidv. Pro. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., 1851, p. 209, Verrill, Eep. U. S. Com. Fisheries for 1872-73, p. 688. 



Fig. 4a, Plate XII, shows the external outlines of the body, and the 

 alimentary canal of a moderately sized living adult, x23. Figs. 4b 

 and c represents the dorsal, and Ad the ventral jaw, xlOO. Fig. 4c, 

 cocoon, x45. 



Dr. Leidy's description is here reproduced ' * Body whitish, trans- 

 lucent ; sides nearly parallel, a little broader posteriorly, sixteen 

 alternately broad and narrow segments exclusive of head and 

 posterior end. Head campanulate, terminated by a circular or 

 elliptical crenated lip, fringed with very minute stiff hairs, one two- 

 thousandth of an inch long. Acetabulum circular, one-sixth or 

 one- fourth of a line in diameter; mouth elliptical. Dental plates 

 brown, nearly equal, forming an isosceles triangle, with the base 

 longest and attached apex of superior plate ending in a sharp conical 

 point ; with several very minute denticulations on each side, apex of 

 inferior plate bifurcated into two points, with two minute denticula- 

 tions on each side. Stomach capacious, nearly filling the anterior 

 eight alternately broad and narrow segments posterior to the head. 

 Anus dorsal, one-fifth of a line from the acetabulum. Generative 

 opening ventral, anterior to the anal aperture. Length, one to four 

 lines ; breadth, one- sixth to one-half of a line. Head, one- sixth to 

 one-half of a line long. Ovum attached ])y a pedicle, with an oper- 

 culum pointed at summit. From base of attachment to point of 

 opercle, one-fifth of a line. Length of body of ovum, one-sixth of a 

 line; breadth, one-eighth of a line. 



"Habitat. — Found frequently in numbers from one to several 

 dozen upon any part of the exterior of the body of Adaais hartonii 

 Fab., but moi'e especially upon the inferior surface and the 

 branchitie. " 



The spermatheca is large, short- cylindrical, and curved; and the 

 penis-sac is cylindrical and possesses prominent atrial appendage. 

 The external openings of these and the ovaries are as usual. The 

 anterior nephridia terminate in very large transverse tubes which 

 open into a pulsatile vesicles icuated in the third segment. The other 

 auatomica characters are in no way remarkable. 



I have never found this species inhabiting the branchial chamber. 




428 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



but principally the sternal surface of the entire body, among the 

 bases of the appendages. The cocoons are attached to the abdominal 

 sternites, but more frequently to the setie of the pleopods. They are 

 to be found principally in summer, but are not entirely absent at any 

 season. 



Phila. Pa., and Watauga Co., North Carolina. 



The author has, since writing the above, examined a preparation 

 of B. parasita Braun, in which he was able to distinguish only a 

 single unpaired vas deferens. Compare Vejdovsky, Systemu Mono- 

 graphic der Oligochjeten. 




1898. ] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 429 



NOTES ON SOME SNAKES FROM. TROPICAL AMERICA LATELY 



LIVING IN THE COLLECTION OF THE ZOOLOGICAL 



SOCIETY OF PHILADELPHIA. 



By ARTHUR ERWIN BROWX. 



Nearly all of the specimens on which these notes are based, are 

 now in the Academy's collection, but have all been living in the 

 garden of the Zoological Society. The greater number of them were 

 contained in a collection made by Dr. O'Reilly, of Trinidad, who is 

 responsible for the localities of collection in these cases. The colors 

 given, were in all cases, taken from the living specimen. 



Boa diviniloqua (Laur.). 



One specimen from St. Kitts. 65 rows of scales ; ventrals, 266 ; 

 subcaudals, 54; 16 scales in orbital ring; in contact with labials, 

 15 scales across top of head, between orbits ; thirty-two spots on body; 

 six on tail. Total length, 1,700 mm. (tail 152). 



Boa imperator Daud. 



One specimen, probably from Vera Cruz. 68 rows of scales ; 

 ventrals, 246; subcaudals, 66 ; 19 scales in orbital ring ; in contact 

 w'ith labials on one side, separated by one row of scales on the other ; 

 13 scales between orbits; twenty-two spots on body, four on tail. 

 Total length, 1,010 mm. (tail 105). 

 Ungualia melanura (Schlegel). 



Three specimens from Cuba. 



(a). 27 rows of scales, three exterior smooth ; ventrals, 202 ; 

 subcaudals, 40. Total length, 571 mm. (tail 76). 



Body color dark gray, slightly lighter on sides ; abdomen and 

 five exterior rows of scales, light gray ; a row of small dark spots 

 alternating on each side of the back ; two rows of black dots on the 

 first and fifth rows of scales, about five scales apart longitudinally. 

 An occasional similar dot on the ventrals ; top of head, dai*k ; sides 

 of head, chin and throat, light gray maculated with black. 



(6) 27 rows of scales, three exterior smooth; ventrals, 201. Total 

 length, 533 mm. (tail broken). 



Color very similar to specimen a. The sides and belly have a 

 salmon tinge and the dorsal spots tend to coalesce into a zigzag line. 




430 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



There is also a yellowish tinge on the eleventh and twelfth rows, 

 giving the appearance of a broken line of that color. A dark patch on 

 the frontal and parietals and a line from the nostril to side of the neck. 



(c) From Banes, Cuba, 27 rows of scales, four exterior smooth, 

 ventrals, 194; subcaudals, 24. Total length, 736 mm. (tail 51). 



This specimen is peculiar in coloring, being a bright orange yellow 

 on the whole upper surface, slightly paler on the sides and beneath. 

 There is an occasional indication of the dark dorsal and lateral dots. 

 In all these specimens the frontal plate is nearly twice as long as broad 

 and the parietals are separated by one large and one small scale. 



Epicrates cupreus Fisch. 



One specimen from Venezuela (O'Reilly, coll.), 51 rows of scales, 

 ventrals, 236; subcaudals, 54; 13 superior and 15 inferior labials, 

 the sixth and seventh labials entering the orbit. Total length, 1,247 

 mm. (tail 133). 



Color, uniform copper above, with a rich, plum colored bloom. 

 Faintly indicated darker mottling on the back and sides. Beneath, 

 white with a spot of the body color on the base of each scutum near the 

 end. 



For purposes of comparison, the scutellation of a small E. angu- 

 lifer, from Cuba, is given: — Total length, 635 mm. (tail 63), 63 

 rows of scales; ventrals, 274; subcaudals, 50 ; 13 superior labials, 

 not touching orbit; 16 lower labials. 



Xiphosoma hortulana (Linn). 



(a) From Trinidad (O'Reilly, coll. ), 43 rows of scales ; 2 loreals ; 

 13 superior labials, of which eight are pitted; 16 lower labials, 

 eight pitted; 8 to 12 scales across top of head between orbits; ven- 

 trals, 264; subcaudals, 112. Total length, 1,096 mm. (tail 241). 



Color, black with a series of white rings, somewhat alternating on 

 opposite sides of the body, many of them open below and prolonged 

 downward to the ventrals, in the form of two white bars. 



(b) From Trinidad or Guiana (O'Reilly, coll.) 41 rows of 

 scales; 2 loreals ; 12 superior labials, 8 pitted; 14 lower labials, 6 

 pitted; 10 to 12 scales between orbits; ventrals, 253; subcaudals, 

 95. Total length, 1,012 mm. (tail 203). 



Color reddish brown ; lateral blotches yellowish brown, not form- 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 431 



iug rings as distinctly as in the black type. An occasional scale is 

 black or white. Abdomen yellowish cream color with small dusky 

 blotches, especially towards the tail. The whole pattern is less dis- 

 tinct than in the ordinary form and is diiiicult to describe.. 

 Xiphosoma ruschenbergeri Cope. 



Two specimens from Trinidad (a, O'Reilly, coll.) 



(a) 4. rows of scales ; 2 loreals ; 13 superior and 13 inferior 

 labials; 9 to 12 scales between orbits; 4 large plates on muzzle; 

 ventrals, 261 ; subcaudals, 101. Total length, 1,680 mm. (tail 305). 



Color, greenish brown above, with an occasional yellow scale. All 

 the scales narrowly margined with dark brown. Underneath, bright 

 yellow, clouded with dusky. A few small black spots towards the tail. 



(6) 43 rows of scales; 2 loreals ; 14 superior labials, Spitted; 13 

 inferior, 7 pitted; 9 to 11 scales between orbits. Six large plates on 

 muzzle. Ventrals, 258 ; subcaudals, 101. Total length, 1,655 

 mm. (tail 305). 



Color similar to specimen a, but without any yellow scales on the 

 body. 

 Xiphosoma annulata Cope. 



(a) Said to have come from Jamaica, but probably exotic ; 54 

 rows of scales ; 3 loreals; 12-14 superior labials, 6 pitted; 18 in- 

 ferior, 9 pitted; 12 to 16 scales between orbits; ventrals, 260; 

 subcaudals, 82. Total length, 863 mm. (tail 152). 



Color, gray with a series of darker gray i-ings with lighter centers, 

 on each side. These rings often coalesce across the back, and become 

 bands on the tail. Light gray underneath. Head w'ith a few dark, 

 markings and a black band through the eye. 



(6) From Bocas del Toro, Columbia; 54 rows of scales; 3 

 loreals; 14 superior labials, 8 pitted; 18 inferior, 10 pitted; 14 to 

 16 scales between orbits; ventrals, 252; subcaudals, 80, Total 

 length 990 mm. (tail 152). 



Color much as in specimen a, but with a slightly brownish tinge. 



The muzzle in this species is broader than in ]iortuIana, the inter- 

 nasals are shorter and the superciliaries less distinguishable. 

 Dipsas cenchoa (Liim.). 



One specimen from Columbia; 17 rows of scales; median much 

 enlarged ; 1 ante and 2 post-orbitals ; 7 superior, 9 inferior labials ; 

 ventrals, 246; subcaudals, 180 pairs: anal divided. Total length, 

 1,028 mm. (tail 330). 




432 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Color, reddish brown above with blotches of darker browu ; 

 yellowish beneath, punctuated with black. 



Leptophis liocercus (Xeuwied). 



One specimen from Venezuela (0' Reilly, coll.) ; 15 rows of scales, 

 those on the body keeled ; noloreal; temporals, 1-2; 8 superior, 10 

 inferior labials. Ventrals, 161; subcaudals, 157 pairs; anal 

 divided. Total length, 1,235 mm. (tail 381). 



Color, bright metallic green aliove ; belly white, extending to the 

 second or third rows of scales. Each subcaudal has a minute point 

 of green about the centre. The dark line through the eye, is very 

 narrow in this specimen. 



Herpetodryas carinatus (Linn). 



Two specimens from Trinidad, (h, O'Reilly, coll.) 



(a) 9 superior labials ; 9-10 inferior labials ; temporals, 1-2; 12 

 rows of scales; 2 median rows keeled; ventrals, 160; subcaudals, 

 117. Total length, 1,373 mm. (tail 457). 



Color, greenish lilack above with indications of a light dorsal 

 stripe. Greenish white underneath. 



(h) 9 superior, 11 lower labials; temporals, 1-2; 12 rows of 

 scales, all smooth; ventrals, 164; subcaudals, 129 pairs. Total 

 length, 1,502 mm. (tail 509). 



Color, bluish black above ; bluish white beneath. 



Spilotes puUatus (Linn). 



Two specimens from Trinidad, (O'Reilly, coll.) 



(a) 17 rows of scales ; 8 superior and 8 inferior labials; tem- 

 porals, 1-1; ventrals, 214; subcaudals, 103 pairs. Total length, 

 1,930 mm. (tail 458). 



The light markings in this specimen are pure white. 



(6) 15 rows of scales: 6 superior, 8 inferior labials; temporals, 

 1-1; ventrals, 214; subcaudals, 110 pairs. Total length, 2,240 

 mm. (tail 533). 



The light markings are pale yellow. 



Spilotes corais melanurus (D. & B.) 



One specimen from Mexico ; 1 7 rows of scales ; 8 labials above, 8 

 below; temporals, 2-2; ventrals, 192; subcaudals, 59 pairs. Total 

 length, 2,105 mm. (tail 381). 




1893.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 433 



Spilotes corais xanthurus, subs. nov. 



Two specimens from an unknown locality. There is good reason, 

 however, to believe that they came from Vera Cruz. 



(a) 17 rows of smooth scales ; 8 upper, 9 lower labials ; temporals, 

 f -2 ; veutrals, 215; subcaudals, 77 pairs. Total length, 1,575 mm. 

 (tail 279). 



(6) 17 rows of smooth scales ; 8 upper, 9 lower labials ; tem- 

 porals, 2-2 ; ventrals, 204 ; subcaudals, 58 pairs. Total length, 

 1580 mm. (tail 229). 



Color is alike in both specimens : The upper surface of head is 

 brownish black, with a yellow shade showing through it. The 

 upper labials are yellow, margined above and behind with brownish 

 black. The body is blackish brown above for the anterior two- 

 thirds, gradually becoming blotched with yellow, which increases un- 

 til the posterior third is entirely orange yellow; some scales are with 

 dark edges. Under surface of head and throat yellow. The portion 

 of the body which is black above, is a pale dirty yellow beneath, the 

 color of the back showing on the ends of the ventrals ; the posterior 

 portion below, being a clearer, brighter yellow. 



In specimen a the lower anterior temporal is long and narrow and 

 on one side is divided, making three on one side and two on the 

 other. In specimen b the anterior temporals are small, hardly 

 larger than the post-orbitals and are almost separated from the 

 posterior pair by the seventh laliial, which is produced upward into 

 a point. 

 Alsophis angulifer caymanus (Garmau). 



Three specimens from Isle of Pines, West Indies. 



17 rows of scales, smooth; 1 ante, 2 post-orbitals ; a square loreal, 

 not reaching the frontal ; 2 nasals ; temporals, 1-2 ; 8 superior 

 labials, 3d, 4th and 5th in orbit; 10 lower labials; 2 pairs of chin 

 shields; anal divided. 



(a) Ventrals, 172; subcaudals, 109 pairs. Total length, 1,273 mm. (tail 356). 



(b) '• 169 " 81 " " " 1.146 " " 305 



(c) •• 169 " 80 '• •■ •' 1,133 " " 292 



Color, pale olive brown above, each scale edged with blackish ex- 

 cept towards the tail, where the edging disappears and an occasional 

 scale is wholly black. The ventrals are slightly lighter, each one on 

 the anterior portion of the body edged with black. There is an 




434 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



occasional red patch on the lower abdomen and tail. A dark blotch 

 on the parietals, frontal and superciliaries. lu all details of scutellation 

 these specimens agree with A. amjuUfer of Cuba and are precisely 

 similar in color to five other specimens which were in possession of 

 the dealer from whom they were procured. 



The form is that described by Garmau as A. caymanus (Proc. 

 Am. Phil. Soc, 1887, p. 276) in which the color variation seems to 

 be well fixed. One specimen of A. angulifer in the Academy's 

 collection rather tends towards it, however, and it seems best to re- 

 gard the form as a subspecies from some of the outlying keys and 

 islands. 

 Helicops angulatus (Liim). 



One specimen from Trinidad (O'Reilly, coll.) ; 19 rows of scales ; 

 keeled; loreal present ; temporals, 1-3; ventrals, 119; subcaudals, 

 65 pairs ; anal divided. Total length, 368 mm. (tail 89). 



Color greenish olive. The light cross bands widen and end in a 

 red spot on the flanks. Underneath, orange, with a row on each side, 

 of alternating dark blotches. 

 Scytale neuwiedi D. & B. 



One specimen from Guiana (O'Reilly, coll.); 19 rows of smooth 

 scales ; 8 superior labials, fourth and fifth in orbit ; 8 lower labials ; 

 2 nasals, posterior large ; a loreal which is long and narrow, hard to 

 distinguish from the prefrontals; 1 ante, 2 post-orbitals; temporals, 

 1-2 ; ventrals, 188 ; subcaudals, 83, undivided ; anal undivided. 

 Total length, 914 mm, (tail 229). 



Color, uniform reddish brown above, pearl white beneath ; lustrous 

 and opalescent. 

 Bothrops atrox (Linn). 



Two specimens from British Guiana, (O'Reilly, coll.) 



(a) 27 rows of scales; 7 upper and 8 lower labials ; ventrals, 196; 

 subcaudals, 42 pairs. Total length, 635 mm. (tail 89). 



(b) 27 rows of scales; 7 upper and 9 lower labials ; ventrals, 195; 

 subcaudals, 59 pairs. Total length, 722 mm. (tail 121). 



Scales broad and with a high, short keel, which does not extend to 

 the tip of the scale. 



Color, grayish olive with brown, black edged blotches on the back, 

 widening on the sides. Interspaces along the back, about equal in 

 length to the blotches. Abdomen yellow, heavily blotched with 

 dark brown. 




1893.] NATURAI^ SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 435 



Bothrops lanceolatus (Menem). 



Two specimens from Martinique, (O'Reilly, coll.) 



(a) 25 rows of scales; 7 upper and 9 lower labials; veutrals, 

 199; subcaudals, 69 pairs. Total length, 559 mm. (tail 101). 



(6) 25 rows of scales ; 7 upper and 9 lower labials ; veutrals, 

 200; subcaudals, 69 pairs. Total length, 610 mm. (tail 114). 



Scales narrower than in afro.r, keel less marked and running to the 

 tip of the scale. 



Color, gray above witli pale brown rhomboidal blotches on the 

 back and small spots on the sides, both very irregular. Abdomen 

 yellow, unspotted. 

 Bothrops jararaca (Xeuwied. ) 



One specimen from Brazil, (O'Reilly, coll.) — 27 rows of scales; 

 7 upper and 9 lower labials ; veutrals, 206 ; sulicaudals, 57 pairs. 

 Total length, 635 mm. (tail 101). 



Body scale much as in lanceolatus. Those on the muzzle propor- 

 tionately rather larger. Angle of canthus less sharp. 



Color, sage green, with dark transverse bands, widening on the 

 sides. Interspaces along the back are considerably longer than the 

 bands. An occasional dark spot in the interspaces on the dorsal 

 line. Abdomen yellow, unspotted. 



The specimens of i>of/(ro/)6- given above are identified with some 

 hesitation. In fact the difficulty of finding any marked, sul)stautial 

 characters, distinguishing these three species, suggests a doubt of 

 their right to full specific rank. In case they should be regarded 

 as subspecies of one widely ranging form, B. atrox, (Linn) would 

 have priority. 




436 proceedings of the academy of [1893. 



December 5, 



The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 



One hundred and thirt}'- eight persons present. 



A paper entitled ' ' Earthen\Yare of Florida, Collections of Clar- 

 ence B. Moore," by W. H. Holmes, was presented for publication. 



Dr. Benjamin Sharp made a communication on his recent visit 

 to the Hawaiian Islands. (No abstract). 



Heredity in the Social Colonies of the Hymenoptera. — At the 

 meeting of the Academy held May 23 Prof. Edw. D. Cope, 

 referring to the 'question of heredity in the social colonies of the Hy- 

 menoptera, remarked that perhaps the strongest case that can be 

 made out against the theory of use- inheritance has been presented by 

 Mr. W. P. Ball, -■- viz. : that of the variety of structure displayed 

 by the neuter members of the colonies of ants and termites. Mr. 

 Ball describes these briefly as follows: 



"But there happens to be a tolerably clear proof that such changes 

 as the evolution of complicated structures and habits and social in- 

 stincts can take place independently of use- inheritance. The won- 

 derful instincts of the working bees have apparently been evolved 

 (at least in all their later social complications and developments) 

 without the aid of use- inheritance nay, in spite of its utmost opposi- 

 tion. Working bees, being infertile "neuters," cannot, as a rule, 

 transmit their own modifications and habits. They are descended 

 from countless generations of queen bees and drones, whose habits 

 have been widely different from those of the workers, and whose 

 structures are dissimilar in various respects. In many species of 

 ants there are two, and in the leaf-cutting ants of Brazil there are 

 three kinds of neuters which differ from each other and from their 

 male and female ancestors "to an almost incredible degree."^ The 

 soldier caste is distinguished from the workers by enormously large 



*The Effects of Use and Disuse. Nature Series, 1890, P. 24. 



'Origin of Species, pp. 230, 232; Bates' Naturalist on the Amazons. Dar- 

 win "is surprised that no one has hitherto advanced the demonsti'ative case of 

 neuter insects, against the well-known doctrine of inherited habit, as advanced 

 by Lamarck." As he justly observes, "it proves that with animals, as with 

 plants, any amount of modification may be effected by the accumulation of 

 numerous, slight, spontaneous variations, which are in any way profitable, with- 

 out exercise or habit having been brought into play. For peculiar habits 

 confined to the workers or sterile females, however long they might be followed, 

 oould not possibly affect the males and fertile females, which alone leave any 

 descendants."' Some slight modification of these remarks, however, may 

 po.ssibly be needed to meet the case of " factitious queens," who (probably through 

 eating particles of the royal food ) become capable of producing a few male eggs. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 4o7 



heads, very powerful mandibles, aud "extraordinarily different in- 

 stincts. In the driver ant of west Africa one kind of neuter is three 

 times the size ot the other, aud has jaws nearly five times as long. 

 In another case "the workers of one caste alone carry a wonderful 

 sort of shield on their heads. ' ' One of the three neuter classes in 

 the leaf-cutting ants has a single eye in the middle(?) of its forehead. 

 In certain Mexican and Australian ants some of the neuters have 

 huge spherical abdomens, which serve as living reservoirs of honey 

 for the use of the community. In the equally wonderful case of the 

 termites, or so-called "white ants," (which belong, however, to an 

 entirely different order of insects from the ants and bees) the neuters 

 are blind aud wingless, and are divided into soldiers and workers, 

 each class possessing the requisite instincts and structures adapting it 

 for its tastes. Seeing that natural selection can form and maintain 

 the various structures and the exceedingly complicated instincts of 

 ants and bees and wasps and termites in direct defiance of the 

 alleged tendency to use-inheritance, surely we may believe that 

 natural selection, unopposed by use-inheritance, is equally competent 

 for the work of complex or social or mental evolution in the many 

 cases where the strong presumptive evidence cannot be rendered 

 almost indisputable by the exceptional exclusion of the modified 

 animal from the work of reproduction." 



"Ants aud bees seem to be capable of altering their habits and 

 methods of actiou much as men do. Bees taken to Australia cease 

 to store honey after a few years' experience of the mild winters. 

 Whole communities of bees sometimes take to theft, and live by 

 plundering hives, first killing the queen to create dismay among the 

 workers. Slave ants attend devotedly to their captors, and fight 

 against their own species. Forel reared an artificial ant colony made 

 up of five different and more or less hostile species. Why cannot a 

 much more intelligent animal modify his habits far more rapidly aud 

 comprehensively without the aid of a factor which is clearly unneces- 

 sary in the case of the more intelligent of the social insects." 



The explanation of this phenomenon will be probably some day 

 found by paleoutologic discovery. We may suppose, on the basis of 

 discoveries already made in other animals, that the primitive ants and 

 termites presented homogeneous colonies, and that the varied struc- 

 tures which they present to-day have been primarily due to the usual 

 process of specialization through use- inheritance. It is reasonable to 

 sup|)ose that the varied functions of the different members of the 

 community have modified the structures of the parts essential to their 

 performance. It is probalile that the earliest ants in an early geo- 

 logic period, became soldiers under the usual exigencies of their 

 struggle for existence, and having thus secured a place in the 

 economy of nature, certain members of the communities underwent 

 degenerative changes, appropriate to their respective functions, of a 




438 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



less exacting character. lu a second stage of evolution the com- 

 munity would present the character of a family of varied forms all 

 of whose members would produce any or all of the types of form to 

 be found in it, under slight diversities of condition, just as now, all 

 species produce young of two sexes. The differences between the 

 members of an ant community are considerable in appearance, but 

 not so great essentially as that between sexes. Finally, in a third 

 stage of the history, the function of reproduction came to be the 

 special office of a few members of the community. This may have 

 been due to a deficiency of food accessible to certain individuals 

 aborting the reproductive powers ; but whatever may have been 

 the cause, a majority of individuals became sterile. The repro- 

 ducing members of the community, however, have continued to pro- 

 du'^e all of the forms of the community. They produce sterile 

 workers and soldiers, sometimes of several forms, through heredi- 

 tary influences. But this, says Mr. Ball, is evidence that inherit- 

 ance can have no share in the process. He believes that each one 

 of the structural types of the community is produced by the treat- 

 ment accorded to the young by the workei's, each generation for 

 itself. How excessive additions to structure can be produced by 

 starvation, he does not attempt to show. 



As we have seen that the embryonic and paleontologic histories 

 distinctly negative the idea that each generation has been produced 

 by itself without inheritance, let us endeavor to read the riddle in 

 the light of the knowledge we have gained from paleontology. We as- 

 sume that the most specialized types, the soldiers, represent the fer- 

 tile type of the species in Liassic time, when the family first appears, 

 or soon after. The process of change into workers and breeders has 

 been degenerative. In ants, as in the case of the many other animals, 

 slight differences in the supply of nutritive energy may prevent or 

 produce these degenerative processes, as it appears to do in the case 

 of the production of the sexes. (Experiments on lepidopterous larvae 

 have shown that excessive food supply produces females and deficient 

 supply produces males). In bees, the larvie of the female (queen) 

 receive the largest food supply; those of the males less; and those of 

 the neuters the least of all. How the food supply came to be varied 

 so as to produce the several types, in accordance with the exigencies 

 of the community, is a question to be solved by future research. 

 Perhaps it was due to variations in the supplies available at par- 

 ticular times of the year; and perhaps the ants thus acquired a habit 

 of feeding and came to practise it intelligently. It is enough for the 

 present purpose to have shown that it is more probable that the basis of 

 the entire community, the original fertile soldier, acquired his char- 

 acters in the usual way: by use, and that all other forms have been 

 derived from him by inheritance, modified by disuse or degeneracy, 

 under the influence of variations in the food supply. 




1893.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 439 



December 12. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 

 Thirty- seven persons present. 



The death of James Wood Mason, a correspondent. May 6, 1893, 

 was announced. 



December 19. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 

 One hundred and fifty- five persons present. 



The death of General William Lilly, a member, Dec. 1, 1893, 

 was announced. 



Prof. William Libby, Jr. made a communication on the 

 physical geography of the Hawaiian Islands. (No abstract. ) 



December 26. 

 Rev Henry C. McCook, D. D., in the chair. 



Thirty- five persons present. 



A paper entitled ' ' Homologies of the Alisphenoid and Petromas- 

 toid Bones in Vertebrates," by Henry C. Chapman, M. D. was 

 presented for publication. 



The Publication Committee reported in favor of the publication of 

 the following papei's in the Journal : 



Extinct Bovidie, Canidte and Felidte from the Plistocene of the 

 Plains. By E. D. Cope. 



Earthenware of Florida, Collections of Clarence B. Moore. By 

 W. H. Holmes. 



The following were ordered to be printed : 




440 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



NEW SPECIES OF FUNGI FROM VARIOUS LOCALITIES 

 By J. B. ELLIS axd B. M. EVERHAET. 



* HYMENOMYCETES. 



Agaricus (Tricholoma) subrufescens E. & E. 



Pileus carnose, convex-plane, 4-5 cm. across, light colored with a 

 reddish tinge, center darker, innate-fibrillose-squamose, not at all 

 viscose, flesh white and quite thin towards the margin. Lamellae 

 unequal, rounded behind, very light flesh color, with a reddish tinge, 

 especially where bruised or broken, moderately crowded, 2-3 mm. 

 wide, substance rather thick. Tasteless, but with a strong farinose 

 smell like that of a freshly cut cucumber. Stem of fibrous texture, 

 softer within and becoming hollow, about 8 cm. high and 1 cm. thick 

 below, subatteuuated above, surface somewhat squamulose, about the 

 same color as the pileus, the whole plant assuming a distinctly red- 

 dish tinge, more decided with age. Spores white, sub-globose, about 

 3 J,"., diameter. 



In low, mixed woods, among decaying leaves, Newfield, N. J., 

 Sept. to Oct. 



Hygrophoms squamulosus E. & E., in Ellis & Everhart's North Am. Fuugi, 2d 

 series, Xo. 1912. 



Carnose throughout and brittle. Pileus hemispherical, expand- 

 ing to convex, 3-4 cm. across, bright orange-red, becoming paler 

 especially around the margin, tomentose- squamulose, more distinctly 

 so in the disk, never viscose. Lamellae emarginate-adnate, with a 

 slight decurrent tooth, light yellow, unequal, rather broad, moder- 

 ately crowded, margins obtuse, at length pulverulent, inter- 

 spaces only slightly rugose. Stem about 5 cm. long, 2-I cm. 

 thick, subatteuuated above and slightly farinose at the summit, hol- 

 low, light orange with a deeper tint midway, often compressed and 

 curved. Spores white, oblong-elliptical, 5-6 x 3-3 i'/. Basidia clavate- 

 cylindrical, 22-25x35-4,-/, stipitate. 



Near H. coccineus Schaeff". but the pileus is orange red, not scarlet 

 and only convex, not conical or ever viscose. 



In low, swampy woods, amongst moss and decajdng wood and 

 leaves. Newfield, N. J., Julv to October. 




1893.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 441 



Marasmius concinnus E. & E. 



Oil dead limb of £uoni/mus atropiirpureus, Mt. Cuba, Del., Sept. 

 1893. (Commons, No. 2306). 



Miuute, about 2 mm. high. Pileus convex, smoky-brown, 1 mm. 

 broad, pruinose. Lamellae not crowded, adnata, pruinose, edges 

 obtuse. Stipe white, arising from a patch of white appressed tomen- 

 tum, pilose-st^'igose below, attenuated and pruinose- pubescent above. 

 Spores white, globose, 3;/, diam. Basidia cylindrical, 12-15x4//. 



Pistillaria bartolomaei E. & E. 



On dead stems of Callirrhoe i)ivolucrata, Rockport, Ks., June 17, 

 1893. (Bartholomew, No. 319). 



Gregarious, dull flesh color, short, about 1, mm. high, sub- cylin- 

 drical or compressed, obtusely pointed at the apex, slightly darker 

 below but mostly not narrowed into a stipe. Basidia cylindrical, 

 10-12x2—22,'/. Spores globose 2-3/j'. diam. 



This is an anomalous species, standing ambiguously between PU- 

 tillaria and Clavaria, its crowded and dwarfish growth reminding one 

 of same resupinate Hydnum, or it might at first sight be taken for a 

 Cyphella. 



" Appears in hot, wet weather, about the middle of June and de- 

 stroys many of the best plants, root and branch." 



Asterostroma bicolor E. & E. 



On rotten wood, Wilmington, Del., Oct. 1893. (Commons, No. 

 2356). 



Effused, immarginate, thin, hymenium dirty white, substratum 

 ferruginous ; stellate hyphre, deep brown, mostly with 3-4 stout 

 (60-100x4-5// at base), radiating spines. Spores globose, hyaline, 

 5-7// diam. 



Differs from ^4. albido carneum (Schw.) in its ferruginous substratum, 

 coarser stellate hyphte and globose spores. It spreads over the rot- 

 ten wood for some distance, interrupted here and there by the in- 

 equalities of the surface. 



* * PYRENOMYCETES. 



Dimerosporium Galaotis E. & E. 



On living leaves of Galax aphylla, Marion, Va., June, 1882. 

 Com. Smith Ely Jelliffe, M. D. 

 29 




442 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Mycelium hypophyllous, superficial, sparingly branched, radiate, 

 with sessile, globose hyphopodia as in Asterina Leemingii, forming 

 orbicular spots 2-3 mm. diameter or more or less confluent. Perithe- 

 cia seated on the mycelium, ovate, 65-80//. diam. , pierced above, 

 black. Asci oblong, obtuse, aparaphysate, abruptly short- stipitate, 

 30-40x7-8//., 8-spored. Sporidia biseriate, oblong, 1-septate and 

 slightly constricted at the septum, each cell nucleate, yellowish- hya- 

 line, 10-12 x3-39//. Some of the perithecia contain oblong, hya- 

 line, 2 nucleate stylosphores 6-7 x 3//. 



This occurs on the same leaves as Asterina Leemingii E. A: E., 

 but is distinct in its ovate, smaller perithecia and smaller sporidia. 

 This last named species was described as having the perithecia de- 

 pressed-globose, but they are really only convex or scutellate, and of 

 radiate-cellular structure. 



Hypocrea tenerrima E. c^ E. 



Spreading over mosses, decaying sticks, &c., Nuttallburg, West 

 Va., July, 1893. (L. W. Nuttall, No. 123). 



Perithecia gregarious, minute (i mm.), clothed (except the black 

 apex) with a thin white tomentum, seated on a thin snow-white, 

 tomentose- arachnoid subiculum. Asci cylindrical, 40x3//, without 

 paraphyses, 8-spored. Sporidia uniseriate, oblong, obtuse, hyaline, 

 5-6 X 2//, with a single nucleus in the center, (becoming uniseptate)? 



This is closely allied to S. subcarnea E. andE. , but difibrs in the 

 color of the subiculum, the black apex of the perithecia, the narrower 

 asci and rather longer sporidia. 



Hypocrea Virginiensis E. and E. 



On partly dead leaves of Rhododendron maximum, Nuttallburg, 

 AVest Va., August, 1893. (L. W. Nuttall). 



Epiphyllous, stromata carnose, scattered, sub-hemispherical or de- 

 pressed-turbinate, 1-2 mm. diam., of a yellowish gray color, subtrun- 

 cate above aud obscurely margined (when mature). Perithecia 

 ])uried in the stroma, ovate, membranaceous, 110-150/'. diam. 

 Ostiola hemispherical, prominent, black, broadly perforated and 

 sometimes collapsed. Asci cla vate- cylindrical, p. sp. 40-45x7-8//., 

 short-stipitate, filiform- paraphysate, 8-spored. Sporidia biseriate, 

 oblong- fusoid, yellowish-hyaline, uniseptate, slightly constricted at the 

 septum, obtusely pointed at the ends, 10-12x3-3?//. 




1893.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 443 



H. viridens B. and C. seems to differ in its hidden ostiola 

 (ostiolis latitantibus). 



Nectria bicolor E. and E. 



On dead twigs of Ca7'?/a, Wilmington, Del., Sept. 1893. (Com. 

 mons, No. 2245). 



Gregarious, perithecia ovate, slightly contracted at base, reddish- 

 flesh-color, 250-300a diam. , clothed, except a small space around 

 the conic- papiiliform, darker colored ostiolum, with clavate, 1-2 sep- 

 tate hairs hyaline and 3-4// thick at base, yellow and granular- 

 roughened, and 5-7,'j- thick at the rounded, obtuse, oblique apex. 

 Asci clavate-cylindrical, p. sp. 35-40 x 6-7,/, pseudo paraphysate, 

 8-spored, short stipitate. Sporidia biseriate, oblong, straight, hya- 

 line, subobtuse, 7-llx2h-S^/j., 2-3 nucleate, continuous at first, 

 finally faintly uniseptate and slightly constricted. 



The yellow color of the hairy coat is the same as in iV. sulphurea 

 Ell. and Calk, but there is no subiculum, and in that species the 

 perithecia are not hairy, but simply pruinose. Fusarium episphceri- 

 cum C. and E. (Grev. V. p. 50) appears to be the conidial stage. 



Lasiosphseria striata E. and E. 



On dead willow limbs near Park Hill, Ont. , Canada, May, 1893. 

 (Dearness, No. 2177). 



Perithecia gregarious, subglobose, J-1 mm. diam., fibrose-mem- 

 branaceous, pale reddish- brown, thin and collapsed above, fibrose- 

 striate, seated on a thin, dark colored, crustaceo-tomentose subiculum 

 extending along and blackening the limb for several centimeters. 

 Asci clavate-cylindrical. short-stipitate, 100-110x7-8//-, 8-spored 

 with filiform paraphyses. Sporidia crowded-biseriate, fusoid, hyaline, 

 acute, 3-5 septate, 40-60x22-3//.. 



The young perithecia are filled with stylospores 20-27 x 3//, 3 

 septate, hyaline. 

 Acanthostigma parasiticum E. & E. 



Para,<itic on Diatrype stigma, Newfield, N. J., November, 1892. 



Perithecia scattered, ovate, superficial, small (100-112//. high), 

 clothed with stout, straight, rigid, spreading bristles 50-75 x 5// ; 

 ostiolum papiiliform. Asci oblong, 55-70 x 12— 15//., slightly over- 

 topped by the abundant paraphyses. Sporidia fasciculate, fusoid, 

 multi-(6-12) septate, slightly curved, thickened above, yellowish- 




444 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



hyaline, 40-70x4-5//, (mostly 40-50// long), 6-8-septate. 



A. pygmaeum Sacc. and J.. Clintonii Pk., have s|Doridia of equal 

 thickness throughout and in the latter, straight, but the three are 

 closely allied. 

 Rosellinia Hystrix E. & E. 



On old hickory nuts, lying on the ground, Newfield, N. J. May, 

 1893. 



Perithecia gregarious, ovate, obtuse, 110-120// wide, 130— 

 150// high, rather thickly clothed all over with short (8-12//), 

 black bristles. Asci (p. sp. ) cylindrical, 35-40 x 6-7//, short- 

 stipitate, overtopped by the abundant, filiform paraphyses. Sporidia 

 uniseriate, short- elliptical, pale olivaceous, slightly compressed, 5-6, o. 

 long, about 2?// thick and 32/' broad. 



Difi'ers from the other bristly species in its smaller compressed 

 sporidia. 

 Ceratostoma corticolumE. & E. 



On the inside of cast-off bark of Ailanthus decaying on the ground, 

 Newfield, N. J., March 21, 1893. 



Perithecia gregarious, globose about i mm. diam. or less, mem- 

 branaceous, black and I'ough, at first buried in the bark, w^ith only 

 the point of the cylindrical ostiolum erumpent, at length more or less 

 distinctly superficial by the weathering away of the bark. Ostiolum 

 about as long as the diam. of the perithecium, smooth and black at 

 the apex, straight. x\sci cylindrical, p. sp. about 75 x 7-8//, para- 

 physate?. Sporidia uniseriate, elliptical, continuous, brown, 12-14 

 X 6-7//. 



Differs from C. hrevirostre (Fr. ), in its rough perithecia and 

 rather smaller sporidia, and from C. Therryanuni, in its much smaller 

 perithecia. 

 Ceratostomella microspora E. & E. 



On a rotten beech log. Alcove, N. Y. Sept., 1893. (C. L. Shear, 

 No. 174.) 



Perithecia buried in the wood, finally suberumpent, scattered, 

 minute (150// diam.,) ovate- globose, membranaceous, contracted 

 above into a cylindrical ostiolum 200-300// long, the apex erum- 

 pent and slightly projecting. Asci clavate, aparaphysate, 16 x 3//. 

 Sporidia collected in the swollen apex of the ascus, allantbid, hyaline, 




1893.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 445 



moderately curved, minute, about 3 x h-i."- The asci resemble 

 those of Calosphceria. 



Distinct from any of the described species in its minute perithecia 

 and minute allantoid sporidia. 

 Melanopsamma borealis E. & E. 



On bark, Newfoundland, May, 1893. (Rev. A. C. Waghorne). 



Perithecia gregarious, superficial globose or depressed-globose, 

 rugose- roughened, black, 400-500// diam. Ostiolum papilliform, 

 the apex of the perithecium around it irregularly cleft and torn so as 

 to resemble the blossom end of an apple. Asci clavate-cylindrical, 

 short-stipitate, 75-80 x 7-8//., paraphysate, 8-spored. Sporidia 

 clavate-oblong, hyaline, uniseptate and constricted at the septum, 

 14-16 X 5-6//, much resembling the sporidia of Glonium lineare 

 (Fr.). 

 Melanopsamma nucigena E. & E 



On old hickory nuts lying on the ground, Newfield, N. J. May, 

 1893. 



Perethecia gregarious, brown, superficial, ovate, 200-250//. high, 

 about 150// broad tubercular- roughened, clothed at first with a short, 

 brown pubescence and scattering, short, pale hairs ; ostiolum papil- 

 liform, soon perforated. Asci clavate-cylindrical, 60-70 x l/i, 

 short-stipitate, paraphysate, 8-spored. Sporidia biseriate, fusoid, 

 slightly curved, 3-septate, not constricted, 15-20 x 32-4 j//, yel- 

 lowish-hyaline. 



Differs from 3f. abscondita E. and E. in its narrower, rather 

 shorter sporidia, not at all constricted, and its ovate or ovate-conical 

 perithecia and from Trematosph(jeria nuclearia De Not. in its 3-sep- 

 tate sporidia. 



Melanomma deciduum E. & E. 



On black ash R. R. ties and on wood of cedar rails, Potsdam, New 

 York, March, 1860. 



Perithecia superficial, scattered, globose, black, collapsing when 

 dry, with short, brown, scattering hairs, especially below, 300-400//. 

 diam., with a minute, papilliform ostiolum. Asci cylindrical, short- 

 stipitate, 60-70 X 6//, paraphysate, 8-spored. Sporidia biseriate, 

 fusoid, 3-septate, constricted at the middle, septum pale brown, 15 — 

 18 X 3//, ends acute. 



Differs from M. inspissum (Schw), in its larger perithecia and 




446 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



more scattered mode of growth and its longer, narrower, fusoid, (not 

 ovate-oblong) sporidia. 



Teichospora nucis E. & E. 



On old hickory nuts lying on the ground, Newfield, New Jersey. 

 May, 1893. 



Perithecia scattered or loosely gregarious, superficial or erumpent 

 superficial, black, small, conic- hemispherical, 125-150// broad, 

 100-110,'/ high, with a papilliform ostiolum, finally collapsing above. 

 Asci oblong-cylindrical, 70-75x12-15;/, abruptly contracted at base 

 with a very short, nodular stipe. Paraphyses filiform. Sporidia 

 obliquely uniseriate, or subbiseriate, elliptical, yellow (becoming 

 brown or even opake), about 5-septate, with a longitudinal septum 

 more or less perfect, sometimes constricted in the middle, 14-18 x 8- 

 9//. 



Comes near T. Emilii Fabre, but perithecia much smaller and 

 not sprinkled with any white powder. 



Didymosphaeria vagans E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Ostrya, Carya, and Ulmus, London, Canada. 

 May, 1893. (Dearness Nos. 2110, 2113, 2113 b.) 



Perithecia densely gregarious, small, t— i mm. diam. , white inside, 

 covered by the epidermis which is raised into pustules and blackened 

 directly over them and finally pierced by the papilliform ostiolum. Asci 

 clavate, paraphysate, 8-spored, gradually narrowed toward the base, 

 100-110x12;/. Sporidia uniseriate, elliptical, brown, uniseptate, 

 scarcely constricted, 15-20 x 9-11;/. 



Differs from D. epidermidis (Fr.), in its larger sporidia and peri- 

 thecia white inside and from D. nitidula Sacc, in its smaller peri- 

 thecia and sporidia. 



Sphaerella phragmitis E. & E. 



On dead leaves of Phragmites communis, Pine, Indiana. Sept., 

 1893. (Prof. R. A. Harper). 



Perithecia scattered, globose, 100-110;'- diam., pierced above, 

 buried in the parenchyma of the leaf, but visible by translucence. 

 Asci oblong-cylindrical, short-stipitate, 30-45 x 7—9;/, aparaphysate, 

 8-s}X)red. Sporidia biseriate, clavate-piriform, 1-septate and scarcely 

 constricted, sometimes slightly curved, hyaline, 9-12 x 3-4;/. Differs 

 from S. lineolata (Rob. and Desm. ), which also occurs on Phragmites, 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 447 



in its scattered perithecia and smaller sporidia. On the culm and 

 lower part of the leaves is a Stagonospora {S. Phragmitis E. and E.), 

 which appears to be the stylosporous stage of the Sphcerella. The 

 sporules are oblong- elliptical, 2-3-niicleate, yellowish-hyaline, very 

 abundant, 10-12x3-4//, in perithecia about the same as the asci- 

 gerous perithecia. 



Sphaerella Chimaphilae E. & E. 



On living leaves of ChimapJiila umhellata, Faulkland, Del. May, 

 1887. (Commons, No. 479). 



Spots amphigenous, 2-3 mm. diam. , concave above, orbicular, with 

 a slightly raised border, dark with a lighter center and mostly sur- 

 rounded by a dark colored area of greater or less extent. Perithecia 

 amphigenous, seated on the spots and on the blackened area around 

 them, innate with the apex erumpent, 75-100// diam. Asci cyliudric- 

 oblong, subsessile, 40-45 x 6-7//. Sporidia subbiseriate, oblong- 

 fiisoid, uniseptate, hyaline, not constricted, 7-8x2-2?//. The larger 

 spots are indistinctly zonate". 



Allied to 8. Vaccinii Cke. but in that there are no definite spots 

 and the sporidia, as shown by an examination of authentic specc. , 

 are longer (12-15 x l|-2//) or (Sec. Cke.) 12-18 x li-2//. 



Physalospora Ambrosiae E. & E. 



On living leaves of Ambrosia ^ri/ida, Racine, Wis. Sept. 1893. 

 (Davis, No. 9317). 



Spots irregularly elliptical or sub-orbicular, 5-II cm. diam., rusty 

 brown, surrounded by a light yellow aureole. Perithecia ovate, 

 about 200//. diam., the perforated apex strongly projecting above and 

 the rounded base equally prominent below. Asci clavate-cylindrical, 

 60-70x10-12//, subsessile, paraphysate, 8-spored. Sporidia uni- 

 seriate below, subbiseriate above, oblong- elliptical, hyaline, continu- 

 ous, 2-nucleate, 10-12 x 6-7//. 



Leptosphaeria muricata E. & E. 



On leaves of Andropogon nmricatus, St. Martinville, La. (Lang- 

 lois). 



Perithecia scattered, lying in the channels between the nerves of 

 the leaf and covered by the epidermis, with the apex and papilliform 

 ostiolum slightly projecting, subelliptical, 150-250// in the longer 

 diam. Asci slender, sub-cylindrical, 65-70 x 5-6//, paraphysate, 




448 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



8-sporecl, short-stipitate, Sporidia overlapping-uniseriate, short- 

 fusoid, yello\vish, 2-septate, scarcely constricted, 10-11 x 2^-'6/j., 

 mostly not over 2^,'j., ends acute. 



Differs from L. MichotU West, in its elliptical perithecia, slender 

 asci and shorter, fusoid paler sporidia. 



Ophiobolus Andropogonis E. & E. 



On dead leaves of J. «rf?'07)o^on muricatus, Louisiana. (Langlois). 



Perithecia scattered, subcuticular, elliptical, 220-250// in the 

 longer diameter, the apex and papilliform ostiolum slightly promi- 

 nent. Asci clavate-cylindrical, 60-80x8-10//., short- stipitate, \vith 

 abundant paraphyses. Sporidia linear, yellowish, multiseptate, mostly 

 straight, 40-80x2-2*//. 



In the North Am. Pyrenomycetes this was included in 0. Medusae 

 E. and E., but it is distinct on account of its much shorter asci and 

 sporidia, as well as its smaller, elliptical, glabrous, more distinctly 

 prominent perithecia. The habit, however, is the same. 



Diaporthe (Chorostate i Dircae E. & E. 



On dead and nearly decayed limbs of Direct paliistris, London, 

 Canada. July, 1892. (Dearness, No. 2992). 



Perithecia in subcircinate groups of 12-20, buried in the surface 

 of the wood, depressed-globose, i-J mm. diam. , whitish inside, with 

 ostiola convergent and erumpent in a little fascicle, joined together 

 below, their shoi't- cylindrical, i mm. long apices free and slightly 

 projecting through the ruptured epidermis. Asci clavate-cylindrical, 

 50-60 X 6-7//, paraphysate. Sporidia biseriate, obloug-fusoid, straight, 

 4-nucleate, hyaline, 11-13x22-3//. 



There is no black circumscribing line around each separate group 

 of perithecia, but a continuous black line or stratum running along 

 for some inches in extent, in the wood beneath the perithecia. 



Diaporthe (Chorostate) Juglandis E. & E. 



On dead \imhs of Jug lans cinerea, Alcove, N. Y. Aug. 1893. (C. 

 L. Shear, No. 145). 



Perithecia buried in the unchanged substance of the inner bark 

 without any circumscribing line, circinate, 6-12 together, globose, 

 400—600// diam., with slender necks converging and rising through 

 the bark, terminating in a dense fascicle of short-cylindrical or hem- 

 ispherical, broadly perforated ostiola, erumpent in a small, convex, 




1893.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 449 



black disk which is soon obliterated, and surrounded by the ruptured, 

 pustuliform-raised epidermis. Asci cylindrical short-stipitate, p. sp. 

 90-100x8-10//, 8-spored, (paraphysate) ? Sporidia uniseriate or 

 sometimes partly biseriate, subacutely elliptical, hyaline, uniseptate 

 and constricted at the septum, each cell with a single nucleus, 

 15-20 X 7-8//. Melanconium oblongum Berk., occurred on the same 

 limbs. 



This differs from D. bicincta C. and P., in its more obscure stroma 

 and larger perithecia, asci and sporidia. 



Diaporthe (Chorostate) Sambuci E. & E. 



On dead stems of Sambucus Canadensis, Ann Arbor, Mich., April, 

 1893. (L. N. Johnson, No. 483). 



Stroma cortical, consisting of the scarcely altered substance of the 

 bark, orbicular, convex, about 2 mm. diam., not circumscribed 

 either in the wood or bark. Perithecia 10-15, buried in the bark in 

 a. subcircinate cluster, not at all sunk in the wood, 250-350//. diam., 

 white inside, ovate-globose, their short necks converging and termin- 

 ating in a compact fascicle of stout, erect, cylindrical ostiola rounded 

 and subobtuse at the apex, perforating the epidermis and rising 

 slightly above it. Asci clavate-fusoid, 40-50x7/^ with obscure para- 

 physes. Sporidia biseriate, oblong-fusoid, 4-nucleate and with a 

 short, oblique hyaline appendage at each end at first, finally con- 

 stricted so as easily to separate in the middle, straight or slightly 

 curved, hyaline, 14-16 x 3-3 i".. 



The other species on Sambucus have the perithecia scattered or 

 gregarious and the sporidia not appendiculate. 



Diaporthe (Euporthe) micromegala E. & E. 



On dead herbaceous stems, (Desmodium) ? Wilmington. Del. 

 July, 1893. (Commons, No. 2309). 



Gregarious, sometimes 2 or 3 perithecia lying close together, }-i 

 mm. diam., covered by the epidermis and only slightly sunk in the 

 substance of the stem. Ostiola filiform, bent or curved, about 1 mm. 

 long, very slender. Asci broad-fusoid, p. sp. 50 x 20//. Sporidia 

 conglobate, cylindric-fusoid, nucleate, subobtuse, not constricted, 

 nearly straight, 25-28 x 5-6//. 



D. magnispora E. and E., N. A. Pyr. p. 430 and I), megalospora 

 E. and E. , id. p. 446, both have larger sporidia, but besides the 

 different habitats, the former has clustered perithecia and the latter 




450 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



has longer, coarser ostiola and longer, narrower asci, with constricted 

 sporidia. 



Pseudovalsa ulmicola E. & E. 



On dead elm limbs, London, Canada. May, 1893. (J. Dear- 

 ness, 1430c). 



Stroma orbicular or elliptical, 5-I cm. diam., or by confluence 

 becoming irregular aud much larger, formed of the whitened sub- 

 stance of the bark and surrounded (in a horizontal section) by a 

 black line. Perithecia ovate-globose, i-f mm. diam. , entirely buried 

 in the bark and penetrating nearly or quite to the wood, 8-20, sub- 

 circinately arranged, their necks converging and the hemispherical, 

 perforated ostiola erumpent in a minute fascicle perforating the epi- 

 dermis, but scarcely rising above it. Sporidia allantoid, yellow- 

 brown, 20-28x5-7/<, 1-3-septate, ends obtuse aud ofteu swollen. 



The specc. were rather old and the asci dissolved. 



Hypoxylon discoideum E. & E. 



On bark of dead stems of the climbing var. of i?/iHS Toxicodendron, 

 Newfield, N. J. Dec. 1892. 



Stromata gregarious, subseriate, erumpent-superficial, black (when 

 mature), 2-3 mm. diam., at first hemispherical, then wdth the thin 

 margin slightly raised from the bark so as to become subdiscoid, with 

 quite a resemblance (outwardly) to Hijpocrea Schiveintzii Fr. 

 Ostiola papilliform, at length often umbilicately collapsing. Sporidia 

 oblong, straight or slightly curved, pale brown, 2-nucleate, 8-11 

 (mostly 8-10) x3-3J,a. The specc. were old and the asci had dis- 

 appeared. 



Tryblidium Ohiense E. & E. 



On rotten wood, Ohio. (Morgan.) 



Perithecia gregarious, oblong or oblong- elliptical, l-li X5-I mm. 

 straight or slightly curved, black, roughish, with 1-2 deep longi- 

 tudinal striie on each side of the loosely closed lips, ends sub- acute 

 or obtuse. Asci cylindrical, subsessile, densely paraphysate, 75-80 

 x8-10,", 8-spored. Sporidia uniseriate, oblong-elliptical, unisep- 

 tate, hyaline at first, becoming brown, 12-15x4-5//.. 



This would come under Mytilidion, but the perithecia are flattened 

 above and the lips separated by a deep cleft. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 451 



Tryblidiella pygmaea E. & E. 



On weather-beaten wood, Ohio. (Morgan). 



Perithecia gregarious, semi-iramersed, acutely elliptical, black, 

 not striate, 5-I mm. long, lips incurved, not closed, exposing the dark 

 colored disk. Asci clavate, 60-75 x 12-15,^, subsessile, with fili- 

 form, branched paraphyses. Sporidia biseriate, clavate, 3-4-septate, 

 20 X 6-7,", hyaline becoming brown. 



Has the same habit as Glonium Ihieare. 



* * * DISCOMYCETES. 

 Lachnellula microspora E. & E. 



On bark of spruce trees, New Harbor, Newfoundland. May, 

 1893. (Rev. A. C. Waghorne). 



Sessile or very short-stipitate, 2-3 mm. across, cup shaped, (nearly 

 closed at first), margin fringed and outside clothed with a dense coat 

 of rufo-cinereous 70-80 x 02//, stout, rough, simple or regularly 

 branched, subfasciculate hairs. Disk pale orange when fresh, sub- 

 rufous when dry. Asci clavate-cylindrical, subsessile, 55-60 x 6-7//, 

 paraphysate, 8-spored. Sporidia uniseriate, globose, hyaline, smooth, 

 about Sk/J- diam. 



Has the general appearance of LacJmella corticalis (Pers. ) 



Cyathicula quisquiliaris E. & E. 



On decaying leaves, petioles, &c., lying on the ground in woods, 

 Nuttallburg, West Va. May, 1893. (L. W. Nuttall). 



Gregarious, sessile, 1-1 2 mm. diam., cup-shaped, disk pale, with 

 a tinge of brick color when dry, dull, dirty white and furfuraceo- 

 squamulose outside, margin distinctly cleft-toothed and incurved 

 when dry. Asci cylindrical, subsessile, 55-65 x 6-7;/, with filiform 

 paraphyses scarcely thickened above. Sporidia uniseriate, or sub- 

 biseriate above, elliptical, hyaline, continuous, 6-8 x 3-4;/. 



Dermatea simillima E. & E. 



On bark of Acer rubrum, cut for firewood, last winter. Newfield, 

 N. J. Oct. 1893. 



Cespitose or subseriate, but sometimes standing singly. Asconiata 

 short stipitate, yellowish-olive, disk concave, l)ecoming nearly })lane, 

 with a thick, obtuse margin, outside reddish, stipe stout, about 2 nnii. 

 long arising from a reddish carnose stroma. Asci clavate, 80-100 x 

 12-15;/. Paraphyses stout, thickened, colored and subundulate 




452 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



above. Sporidia biseriate, oblong, hyaline, granular and nucleate, 

 14-16x6-7//. 



Differs trom D. olivacea Ell., in its carnose stroma and smaller 

 asci and sporidia. 

 Belonidium minimum E. & E. 



On dead stems of Aralia racemosa, Granogue, Del. Aug. 1893. 

 (Commons No. 2226). 



Scattered, erumpent, sessile, pale rose color, minute (90-110//), 

 sub-discoid, indistinctly margined, subgelatinous, furfuraceo-pilose, or 

 nearly glabrous. Asci clavate-cylindrical, aparaphysate, subsessile, 

 45-55 X 6-7//, 8-spored. Sporidia biseriate, fusoid, slightly curved, 

 hyaline, 8-septate, not constricted, subacute, 14-20 x 3-35//. 



Outwardly hardly distinguishable from Ptziza exigua Ck,, but 

 asci twice as large and aparaphysate and sporidia nearly three times 

 as large and 3-septate. 

 Cenangium tuberculiforme E. & E. 



On dead twigs ot' Ilex glabra, Newfield, N. J. Nov. 1893. 



Ascomata coriaceous, thin, densely cespitose on an erumpent, yel- 

 lowish stroma, forming tubercular masses i-1 cm. diam., light yel- 

 low and furfuraceo-squamulose outside, with the margin entire, white 

 and slightly incurved, urceolate, 2-3 mm. diam., hymenium pale 

 brick-red contracted below into a short, thick, stipe-like base. Asci 

 clavate-cylindrical, 40-50x4-5//, 8-spored. Paraphyses filiform, 

 simple or dichotomously branched above not distinctly thickened 

 at the apex. Sporidia obliquely uniseriate, elliptical, hyaline, con- 

 tinuous, 2- nucleate, subinequilateral, 5-6 x2i//. 



In drying the margin of the cups becomes incurved, and there is a 

 tendency of the opposite sides to roll together. 

 Patinella vagans E. & E. 



On dead twigs of Lindera Benzoin, Guyancourt, Del. , and on dead 

 stems of Eupatoriiim sessilifolium, Granogue, Del. Aug. 1893. 

 (Commons Nos. 2257 and 2260). 



Scattered, erumpent, sessile, small (l-s mm.), pale flesh-color, 

 concave, with a darker, slightly raised margin closely embraced by 

 the ruptured epidermis, substance soft, carnose. Asci clavate-cylin- 

 drical, short stipitate, 40-45 x 6-7//-, 8-spored. Parphyses stout, 

 gradually thickened to the tips. Sporidia uniseriate or biseriate 




1893.] NATURAI^ SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 453 



above, short-elliptical, l-2-nucleate,5-7 x 4-6;/, hyaline or yellowi(<h- 

 hyaliue. 



Closely resembles outwardly Patellaria ferruginea C. and E., but 

 the sporidia are different. In the specc. on Eupatoriwn, the sporidia 

 correspond to the larger measurements and are mostly 2-nucleate. 



Karschia sphaerioides E. & E. 



On rotten, decorticated oak limb, Newfield, N. J. March 26, 1893. 



Ascomata gregarious, sessile, 150-200// diam., black, margin in- 

 curved and irregularly lacerate- toothed, more strongly incurved when 

 dry so as to hide the dull white disk, often clothed outwardly, espe- 

 cially when young, with a few black spreading, bristle-like hairs, 

 which also overspread the surface of the wood. Asci oblong- clavate, 

 short stipitate, 25-30 x 8-10//, and, like the stout paraphyses, of a 

 greenish-yellow color. Paraphyses 2-3-septate, slightly enlarged 

 above and often constricted at the upper septum. Sporidia biseriate, 

 ovate-oblong, pale brown, uniseptate and slightly constricted at the 

 septum, 8-10x3-35//. 



Differs from the other species in its margin so strongly incurved 

 as, in the dry state, to hide the disk almost entirely and thus give 

 the appearance of a pyrenomycete. 



Blitrydium Symph o ricarpi E. & E. 



On dead twigs of Symphoricarpus vulgaris, Rockport, Kansas. 

 Aug., 1893. (Bartholomew). 



Scattered, erumpent-superficial, slaty-black, i-1 mm. diam., dis- 

 coid, with a narrow, erect margin, outside and disk rugulose and 

 when young clothed with u few, short, scattering, pale, glandular 

 hairs. Asci, oblong, subsessile, 120-130 x 30-35//, paraphysate, 

 8-spored. Sporidia biseriate,broad fusoid-oblong or oblong-elliptical , 

 a little narrower below, multiseptate-nmriform, yellow-brown, 

 35-40 X 16-24//. 

 Stictis compressa E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Carpivus and Ostnja Virginica, London, Canada. 

 (Dearness). 



Ascomata entirely buried in the wood, laterally compressed, 1-2 

 mm. long, acute at each end, grayish-black. Ostjolum erumpent 

 through the bark forming a minute, white tubercle with an olive- 

 colored center but, at least when young, without any distinct open- 




454 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



ing. Asci 300-400 X 8-10;/-, with filiform sporidia, multinucleate, 

 becoming multiseptate, neai-ly as long as the asci, about li// thick. 



****SPHJEROPSIDEAE AND MELANCONIEAE. 



Phyllosticta kalmicola (Schw). 



Depazea kalmicola ^Qh\x., Syn. N. Am., No. 1812, (pr. p). On 

 living leaves of Kalmla latifolla. Newfield, N. J. April, 1893. 



Spots amphigenous, orbicular, 1-2 mm. diam., white, with a dark 

 purple margin shading off into reddish-purple. The white is less 

 conspicuous below. Perithecia epiphyllous, depressed globose, sub- 

 cuticular, black, 100-200;/ diam., sometimes concentrically arranged 

 on the spots, semi-erumpent, but closely covered by the transparent 

 cuticle which is often stellately cleft, but not reflexed, rather broadly 

 pierced above. Sporules oblong elliptical, hyaline, minute (2-3 x l;x). 



The Depazea kalmicola Schw., embraces both a Septorla and a 

 Phyllosticta, not outwardly distinguishable ; the former issued in de 

 Thiimen's Mycotheca, No. 1494, Ell. N. A. F. 344, Roum. F. G. 

 2327 and Rab. F. E. 2792. Ell. and Everhart, N. A. F., 2d Ser. 

 2661 is a different thing, the spots having a raised border and the 

 sporules being longer. The label to this last No. is erroneous. It 

 should read on Kalmia angustifolia, and the Syn., " Sphaeria kalmi- 

 aecola " should be canceled. 



Phyllosticta latifolia E. & E. 



On leaves of Kalmia latijolia, Newfield, N. J. May, 1893. 



Spots amphigenous, orbicular, 3-5 mm. diam., rusty brown with a 

 shaded, dark red border, indistinctly zonate. Perithecia buried, 

 150-200;/ diam., the apex rupturing the epidermis but hardly erum- 

 pent, circinately arranged so as to leave an empty space in the center 

 of the spot. Sporules acutely and narrowly elliptical, hyaline, 

 6-8 x 2^-35;' on basidia about as long as the sporules. 



Differs from Ph. kalmicola (Schw.) in its brown, subzonate 

 spots, circinate perithecia and larger sporules. 



Phyllosticta discincola E. & E. 



On leaves of Forsythia Cult. , Washington, D. C. , Com. D. G. 

 Fairchild. 



Spots amphigeneous, grayish- brown, 1-8 mm. diam., suborbicular, 

 bounded on both sides by a distinct raised line giving the appearance 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 455 



of a rouud disk on the face of the leaf. This line is more pronounced 

 and the spots are rather paler below. Perithecia aniphigenous, 

 black, 100-110// diam. pierced above, only the apex erumpent. 

 Sporules elliptical, olivaceous, 4-5 x 22-3//. 



Distinguished from Ph. For.vjthke Sacc. by its discoid, smaller 

 spots. It also grows on a different species of Forsythia. 



On the same leaves there is an Ascochyta with sporules 7-10 x 2?//. 

 and also Discosia maculicola Ger. 



Phyllosticta confertissima E. & E. 



On leaves ot Ulmitsfiilra, Louisville, Kansas. Oct. 1893. (Bar- 

 tholomew No. 1186). 



Spots amphigeuous, orbicular, 4-6 mm. diam. , definite, of a uni- 

 form dark brick-red color. Perithecia hypophyllous, numerous, 

 minute, 75/' diam., perforated above, scarcely visible without a lens. 

 Sporules allantoid, hyaline, 3-4 x 1//. 



Has the same habit as Phyllosiicta {Phoma) Virginiana Ell. and 

 Halst. 

 Phyllosticta moricola E. & E. 



On leaves of young seedlings of Moras rubra, Belvue, Kausas. 

 Oct., 1883. (Bartholomew No. 1184). 



Spots aniphigenous, large, red- brown at first, then whitening out 

 with a brick-red, shaded margin, irregular in shape 1-2 cm. diam. 

 Perithecia amphigenous, subdiscoid, brown, perforated above, 100- 

 110// diam. Sporules oblong or clavate-oblong or subelliptical, 

 hyaline, 2-nucleate, 5-8x22-3/'. 



Ph. morifoUa Pass, is on discoid spots and has sporules only 

 3ixli'.. 



Phyllosticta orbicula E. & E. 



On leaves oi Nadurtmm Annoracla, Loudon, Canada. July, 1893. 

 (Dearness No. 2i32). 



Spots amphigenous, orbicular, thin, white, 1-1 2// diam. with a 

 narrow, light colored margin on both sides of the leaf Perithecia 

 mostly epiphyllous, discoid, black, 80-120// diam., erumpent-super- 

 ficial. Sporules oblong-elliptical or ovate, hyaline or subolivaceous, 

 4-6x2^-3/'. 



Differs from Ph. anceps Sacc. in its broader, differently shaped, 

 subolivaceous sporules. 




^56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Phyllosticta Iridis E. oc M. 



On leaves of Iris versicolor, Green Cove Springs, Fla. April 12^ 

 1884, (Dr. Martin), and Ann Arbor, Mich. July 12, 1892. 

 (Harriet L. Merrow). 



Perithecia amphigenous, minute, buried in the leaf, with only the 

 papilliform apex visible, 4-6 together on small (i-l mm.), dark 

 purple spots thickly scattered over the leaf which at length becomes 

 reddish-brown and dead at the apex and along the sides. S{X)rules 

 oblong-cylindrical, hyaline, nucleolate, 9-11 x 2^,'/, abundant. The 

 spots soon become dirty white in the center. 



The Florida specc. lack the white center in the spots, and are not 

 as well developed as the Mich, specc. but are evidently the same. 

 Judging from the description and the spec, in F. Gall. 238, this is 

 very distinct from Asteroma tenerrimum Grogn. 



Dothiorella Hippocastani E. & E., X. A. F. 2941, F. Columbiaui 72. 



On dead limbs of ^Esculvs Hippoeastanum, Newfield, N. J. May 

 1893. 



Stroma subcuticular, seated on the surface of the inner bark, ellip- 

 tical, grayish, about 2 mm. diam., often seriate-confluent, the apex 

 erumpent through the slightly raised, irregularly ruptured epider- 

 mis. Perithecia 8-12 in a stroma, ovate-globose, whitish inside, 

 100-150;/ diam., contracted above into short necks with their papil- 

 liform ostiola barely erumpent in the dark colored disk. Sporules 

 oblong-fusoid, hyaline, continuous, at first granular with several oil 

 globules, 20-25x5-6//, on pedicels shorter than the sporules. 

 Dothiorella Mali E. & E. 



On dead apple tree limbs, Cuba, Ills. May 11, 1893. (Barthol- 

 omew No. 991). 



Stromata scattered, orbicular or elliptical, 1-2 mm. diam., at first 

 covered by the epidermis, finally erumpent and loosely embraced by 

 its ruptured margin. Perithecia globose, white inside, \—i mm. 

 diam. , buried in the substance of the soft, dark colored stroma, with 

 only their minute papilliform ostiola visible. Sporules oblong, hya- 

 line, granular, 18-20x4—5//, on stout basidia about as long as the 

 sporules. 

 Vermicularia petalicola E. & E. 



On decaying petals of Liriodendron TulipiferayWilmrngton, Del. 

 June, 1893. (A. Commons). 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 457 



Perithecia erumpent-superficial, black, subglobose, i mm. diam. 

 Sporules fusoid, curved, hyaline nucleate, 20x2-2^/7.. Perithecia 

 rather sparingly clothed with stout, spreading, rather short, black 

 bristles. 

 Sphaeropsis Mori E. & E. 



On twigs of Morus, Loudon, Canada. July, 1893. (J. Dearness). 



Perithecia evenly scattered globose, 200-250//. diam. , buried in 

 the bark which is uniformly blackened within, raising the epidermis 

 into pustules which are ruptured at the apex. Sporules oblong, pale 

 brown, 18-22x7-8//. 



Diifers from S. valsoidea C. & E., in its smaller, evenly scattered 

 perithecia and sporules nearly twice as long. 



Hendersonia pustulata E. & E. 



On old hickory nuts lying on the ground, Newfield, N. J. May^ 

 1893. 



Perithecia scattered, puatuliform, j-1 ram. diam., flattened, seated 

 on the inner surface of the nut. Sporules narrow-elliptical, 3-septate, 

 10-12 x3-3ia, not constricted, pale brown, inner cells darker. 

 Basidia about as long as the sporules. 

 Zythia boletioola E. & E. 



On Paxillus(BoIetinus) porosusJierk. Newark, Del. July, 1893. 

 (A. Commons). 



Perithecia scattered, pustuliform, small (200// diam.), thin-membra- 

 naceous, yellowish-flesh-color becoming amber color. Sporules hya- 

 line, oblong or ellptic-oblong 5-15x4—5//. 



Stagonospora pedunculi E. & E. 



On old peduncles of Liriodendron TuUpifera, Nuttallburg, West 

 Va. July, 1893. (L. W. Nuttall, No. 119). 



Perithecia gregarious, pustuliform, about i mm. diam., covered 

 by the blackened epidermis. Sporules cylindrical, 18-22 x 2-2 ^/jt, 

 multinucleate, hyaline, straight. 

 Septoria Lespedezae E. & E. 



On leaves of Lespedeza, London, Canada, July, 1893. (Dear- 

 ness No. 2134). 



Hypophyllous, on small (1-2 mm.), subangular or suborbicular, 

 rather indistinctly limited, grayish-brown spots. Perithecia, l)uried, 

 30 




458 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



with only the apex erumpent, subglobose, about 75,'a diam., dark 

 colored. Sporules acicular, 12-20x1-14/^., faintly nucleolate. 



Septoria gigaspora E. & E. 



On leaves of Celtis occidentals, Rockport, Kansas. Sept. 2, 1893. 

 (Bartholomew, Ko. 1175). 



Spots amphigenous, orbicular, dirty brown, zonate, center white, 

 margin definite but irregular, grayish-brown below, \-l cm. across. 

 Perithecia l^uried in the substance of the leaf, globose, 150— 200//. 

 diam., covered l)y the blackened epidermis which is pierced by the 

 subconical, perforated ostiolum. Sporules vermiform-cylindrical, 

 nearly straight, somewhat narrowed below, hyaline, granular, becom- 

 ing multiseptate, 75-100 x6-8/i. 



Not to be confounded with Hendersonia celtifolia Cke., on the 

 same host. 



Septoria Medicaginis Eob. & Desni. 



The specc. of this species in Desm. Plantes Crypt, de France, No. 

 1728, have the sporules mostly 3-septate, and being without any true 

 perithecium are referable to the genus Septogloeum. Specimens sent 

 from Canada, by Mr. Dearness, on Medicago lupulina, agree with 

 Desm. specc. only the sporules are shorter (14-16x3//), instead of 

 15—20x8//. which is about the size of those in Desm. Exsicc. The 

 Canada specc. also have the sporules only nucleate and not distinctly 

 septate, but as nucleate spores often liecome septate, and as the Can- 

 ada specc. agree in other respects with those issued by Desm. as 

 Septoria Medicaginis, we have no hesitation in calling both the same 

 thing — Septogloeum Medicaginis (Rob. & Desm.) Gloeosporium 

 Medicaginis E.& K.,Journ. Mycol., Ill p. 104, is probably the same 

 thing, the specc. now having the spores uniseptate. 

 Myxosporium luteum E. & E. N. A. F. 2953. Fungi Columbiaui. 150. 



On bark of Canja tomentosa, Nuttallburg, West Va. June, 1893. 

 (L. W. Nuttall, No. 79). 



Stroma globose-conical, light yellow, |-1 mm. diam., slightly sunk 

 in the inner bark, unilocular and opening by a single pore. The 

 surface of the inner bark around this pore is of a pale slate color, 

 the colored portion definitely limited by a black line so as to form 

 an irregular circle about 2 mm. across, but this line does not pene- 

 trate the bark. Sporules navicular-oblong, hyaline, obtuse, 10-11 x 




1893.] NATUBAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 459 



4-5,'j. with 1-2 large nuclei. Basidia slender- cylindrical 15-20 x H,a. 

 Mass of exuded sporules flesh-color. 



Gloeosporium apocryptum E, & E., Journal Mycol. IV, p 52 far. 7-amicolu7nE. 

 & E. (Gloeosporium ^''egiindinis E. & E., in Herb.). 



On small dead limbs of Negundo aceroides, near Wilmington, 

 Del. June, 1893. (A. Commons, No. 2084). 



Acervuli covered by the blackened epidermis, variable in size i-i 

 mm. diam. , round or irregular in shape, pustuliform. Couidia 

 oblong, rounded at the ends, sometimes slightly narrowed in the 

 middle, 12-15x4-6/^. 

 Harknessia thujina E. & E. 



On inner surface of white cedar bark ( Cupressus thyoides) peeled 

 off and left lying on the ground, Newfield, N. J. Nov. 1893. 



Acervuli buried in the bark, short-elliptical, black, about J mm, 

 in the longer diameter, opening by a small pore and finally discharg- 

 ing the opake, acutely elliptical, 12-16 x 9-11/7. spores with persist- 

 ent, hyaline pedicels 16-20,'/ long. There is no appendage at the 

 apex of the spore which is merely obtusely pointed. The surface of 

 the bark is only raised into slight pustules which at first are scarcely 

 noticeable. 

 Gloeosporium boreale E. & E. 



On Scdixsp. Newfane, Vt. Sept., 1893. (A. J. Grout, No. 43). 



Spots orbicular, large 4-5 mm. diam., brown, soon confluent and 

 occuppng the greater part of the leaf which turns light yellow 

 around them. Acervuli numerous, small, hypophyllous. Conidia 

 abundant, clavate-cylindrical, hyaline, continuous, 7-12x1^-2//. 

 issuing in short light-colored cirrhi which soon become amber colored. 



Resembles G. Salicis West., but that species is epiphyllous and 

 the conidia (sec. Cavara) are 14-16x8//. 

 Gloeosporium Osmundse E. & E. 



On pinnules of Osmunda cinnamomea, Munith, Jackson Co., 

 Mich. Aug. 1893. (G. H. Hicks, No. 1795}. 



Acervuli innate, numerous, minute, on yellow-margined, l)rown 

 spots, discharging the subglobose, 3// conidia, in short, white cirrhi, 

 on both sides of the pinnule. 

 Cylindrosporium Glyceriae E. & E. 



On leaves of Glyceria nervata, Racine, Wisconsin. Aug., 1893. 

 (Dr. J. J. Davis, No. 9327). 




460 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Spots narrow- elliptical, dirty white, with a purple border, 4-6 

 mm. long by l2-2 mm. «*ide, or often confluent for one or more cen- 

 timeters. Acervuli 1-4 in the center of the spots, amphi(i:euous, 

 but more distinct above, 100-150// diam. Conidia cylindrical, 

 15-x30 25-3,'', nucleate and apparently becoming 3-septate, hyaline, 

 straight or slightly curved. 



This is a very different thing from Septoria Tritlci Desm., as 

 shown by the diagnosis and specc. of that species, and can not be a 

 Septoria as there is no perithecium. 



Cylindrosporium Calamagrostidis E. & E. 



On living leaves of Calamagrostis Canadensis, Berryville, Wis. 

 June, 1893. (Dr. J. J. Davis, No. 9316). 



Spots linear, t-1 cm. long by 1-1} mm. wide, white, with a pur- 

 plish border. Acervuli epiphyllous, seriate, 150-200//. diam. Con- 

 idia filiform, curved, 40-60x12-2//. multinucleate, (becoming 

 multiseptate)?, narrowed to a flagelliform tip at one end, the other 

 end more abruptly narrowed. The conidia ooze out in small, amber 

 colored masses. 



This is very different from Gloeosporium graminicolum E. & E. 

 in Journ. Mycol. V. p. 154. 



Cylindrosporium Toxicodendri (Curtis) (in Herb. Curtis). 

 Septoria Toxicodendri Curtis, in Peck's 29th Rep. 

 Gloeosporium Toxicodendri E. «fe M., Journ. Mycol. I. p. 116. 



On leaves of Rhus Toxicodendron, not uncommon, Eastern and 

 Middle States, Canada and Iowa. 



Spots reddish- brown above, whitish below, subangular, li-S mm. 

 diam., margin darker. Acervuli mostly hypophyllous, 250-400// 

 diam. , covered by the blackened epidermis which is raised into prom- 

 inent pustules resembling peritliecia. Conidia cylinrical, greenish 

 hyaline, nucleate and faintly 1-3-septate, 30-60 x 2 i-3//.. 



A re- examination of the spec, of Gloeosporium Toxicodendri E. 

 & M., Journ. Mycol. I, p. 116, shows that the spores were erron- 

 eously desci-ibed and that they are in reality as above stated. Prof. 

 A. J. McClatchie sends this from Pasadena, Cala., on leaves of 

 Rhus diversiloba, agreeing with the specc. on Bhus Toxicodendron, 

 only the acervuli are mostly epiphyllous. In all the specc. the 

 acervuli finally collapse. 




1893.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 461 



Septogloeum Lupini E. & E. 



On living leaves of Lupinm perennis, Munith, Mich. Aug. 1893. 

 (G. H. Hicks). 



Occupying the tips of the leaves which become dead and reddish- 

 brown. Acervuli minute, 60-70// diam. Couidia, oblong- cylindri- 

 cal, 2-4- nucleate, more or less bent or nearly straight, obtuse, 1-3- 

 septate, 12-22 x 4-5//. Quite distinct from Cylindrosporkmi longis- 

 porinn Ell. & Dearness. 



Pestalozzia nucicola E. & E. 



On the inner surface of old broken hickory nuts lying on the 

 ground, Newfield, N. J. May, 1893. 



Acervuli subconical, erumpent, small, 150-200// diam. Sporules 

 oblong- fusoid, 4-septate, scarcely constricted, terminal cells hyaline, 

 inner cells smoky-brown, length of the colored part about 12// by 4// 

 wide, apical cell short -conical, crowned with a 3-parted crest of three 

 spreading, hyaline bristles 7-10// long, lower cell attenuated into a 

 pedicle shorter than the sporule. 



Pestalozzia lycopodina E. & E. 



On Lycopodium complanatum, Naaman's Creek, Del. July, 1893, 

 (A. Commons). 



Acervuli erumpent-superficial, conic-hemispherical, i-i mm. diam. 

 Conidia clavate, 4-septate, 20x5// terminal cells hyaline, conical, 

 inner cells light brown, crest of 3-4 hyaline bristles 10-12// long, 

 curving outward. Pedicels about as long as the conidia. 



***** HYPHOMYCETES. 

 Monilia urediniformis E. & E. 



On half grown apples, Newfield, N. J. June 28, 1893. (Mrs. 

 A. J. Ellis). 



Erumpent in dense orange-colored tufts, at first covered by the 

 thin epidermis and forming yellow blisters on dead shriveled places 

 on the apples. These consist of densely fasciculate hyphae with 

 erect branches, septate above and soon separating into conidia, varying 

 in size from 15-80 x 12-30//, not connected by any distinct isthmus 

 and filled with subglobose, hyaline sporules 3-10// diam., and these 

 again filled with smaller sporules. The tufts of hyphae soon rupture 

 the epidermis and the large conidia bursts and liberate the enclosed 




462 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



sporules, thus forming an orange-colored dusty mass, reminding one 

 of Peridermium. 



Differs from M. -sitophila Mont, and M. Martini E. & S. , in the 

 character of the couidia. 



Ramularia reticulata E. & E. 



On leaves of Osmorrhiza \Y3iterford, Wis. June, 1891. (Dr. J. J. 

 Davis, No. 911). 



Couidia oblong or cylindrical, hyaline, mostly continuous, 12-25 

 X 1 i—2,'j., on very short hyphae, forming minute, but dense white 

 tufts seriately arranged along the nervelets of the leaf, on black, 

 dead (often marginal) spots of irregular shape and 1-3 mm. in diam- 

 eter. 



Piricularia parasitica E. c<: E. 



Pavasitic on Phyllachora graminis (Peru.), on Elymus Virginicus, 

 Kenosha Co., Wis. Aug. 1893. (Dr. J. J. Davis, No. 9311). 



Densely tufted, grajdsh-white. Hyphae ei'ect, simple or forked 

 above, sparingly septate, hyaline, 70-110 x 3-4//. Conidia terminal, 

 narrow ovate or obclavate, hyaline, becoming 2-3-septate, 15-22 x- 

 5-7//-. 



The fungus forms a fringe around the margin of the Phyllachora 

 stroma. The hyphae and conidia much resemble those of P. Oryzae 

 Cavara. 



Menispora acicolaE. & E., X. A. P., 2965. 



On fallen leaves of Pimis ngida, Kewfield, N. J. June, 1893. 



Evenly effused so as to form a thin pubescence, gray at first, but 

 soon becoming darker. Hyphae erect, simple, brown, sparingly and 

 distantly septate, slender, 100-110x3//. Conidia cylindric-fusoid 

 continuous, slightly curved hyaline, about 12xlA-2//., with a slender 

 bristle at each end about 8// long. 



The conidia are smaller than in M. ciliata Cda. 



Dicoccum populinumE. & E. 



On leaves of Populus grandidentata, Iowa City, Iowa, June, 1889. 



Hypophyllous, on suborbicular, light brown spots, 3-4 mm. diam., 

 mth a narrow dark margin. 



Conidia ovate-oblong, 1-septate, olivaceous, 14-18x6-7//, rounded 

 or subtruncate above, narrowed and subacute below, sessile, without 

 any visible hyphae, forming an olvaceous layer on the spots. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 463' 



Dicoccum nebulosum E. & E. 



On Fnt.vijiii.i Americana, Sept., '93, Wisconsin. TDr. J.J. Davis). 



Hypophyllons, spots none. Conidia obovate-olilong, olivaceous, 

 1-septate, 11-13x4//, apiculate below, rounded above sessile, like the 

 preceding species scarcely constricted, and with the septum above the 

 middle, but difiering in the absence of any spots and smaller conidia, 

 which form faint olivaceous, more or less confluent patches, without 

 any distinct hyphae. 



Cladosporium nigrellum E. & E. 



On bark of R. R. ties, Nuttallburg, West Va. Oct., 1893. (L. 

 W. Nuttall, No. 172). 



Hyphae densely tufted, septate, subequal, 150-200 x 5-6,^., tufts 

 effused, subcoufluent, forming a black, velvety coat extending over the 

 surface of the bark indefinitely, with the same habit as Macrosporium 

 nigrellum C. & E. Conidia smoky hyaline, Ijecoming pale brown, 

 variable iu size, the smaller ones ovate, continuous or uniseptate, 

 6-8 x 5/', the larger ones oblong-elliptical or subcylindrical, 2-3-sep- 

 tate, 12-15x5-6;/. 



Clasterisporium olivaceum E. & E. 



On old corn stalks (Zea Maijs), Newfield, N. J. May 14, 1893. 



Forms a thin, dark olive layer (becoming nearly black), composed 

 of much branched, creeping hyphae, hyaline at first, becoming 

 brownish and closely appressed to the matrix. Conidia cylindrical, 

 4-8-septate, constricted at the septa, obtuse, 20-25 x 6//, arising 

 directly from the creeping hyphae without any visible pedicel. 



Cercospora exotica E. & E. 



On leaves of some cultivated water lily in an aquarium on the 

 World's Fair Grounds, Chicago, 111. Oct., 1893. (E.F.Smith). 



Spots epiphyllous, orbicular, small (2-4 mm.), dirty-brown, with 

 or without a slightly raised border. Hyphae densely fascicidate, 

 subolivaceous, simple or with a short, rudimentary branch above, 

 25— 40 X 2j-3//. Conidia slender, linear, multiseptate, hyaline, 

 80-150 (exceptionally 190) x 3-3 j//, nearly straight. 



Closely allied to C. nymphaeacea C. & E. , but hyphae and 

 conidia twice as long as in that species. The tufts become effused and 

 appear like a lead-colored, thin tomentum, covering the central part 

 of the spots. 




464 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Ceroospora atrogrisea E. & E. 



On dead stems and pods of Raphanus satlvus, Nevvfield, N. J. 

 Oct., 1893. 



Hyphae cespitose on a small tubercular base, pale brown 1-2-sep- 

 tate, torulose and subundulate above, 60-70 x 4//., forming slaty 

 black, elliptical patches 2-4 mm. long, covered with the minute scat- 

 tered tufts. Conidia slender- obclavate, hyaline, 80-110 x32-4/j'., 

 6-12-septate (mostly about 6-septate). The mature conidia are so 

 abundant as to whiten the patches of hyphae. Besides the absence 

 of any spots, and its growth on pods and stems, this differs from C. 

 Nasturtii Pass, in its multiseptate conidia, which are not bacillary as 

 in C. Armoraeiae Fckl. , and are narrower and with fewer septa than 

 those of C. Cruciferariim E. & E. The hyphae are also shorter 

 than in the last named species. The specc. ai-e overrun with Macvos- 

 porium fasciculatum C. & E. 



Macrosporium NelumMi E. & E. 



On leaves of Nelumbium luteum, Belvue, Kansas. Oct. '93. 

 (Bartholomew, No. 1180). 



Spots dirty brown, suborbicular and subindefinite, 1-6 mm. diam., 

 thickly scattered over the leaf and more or less confluent. Hyphae 

 epiphyllous, scattered and solitary or 2-3 connected at base, brown, 

 3-4-septate, 60-80x5-6//., the upper cell mostly swollen. Conidia 

 clavate, 3-5-septate, with a few faint, partial longitudinal septa, pale 

 brown 35-50 xl0-15,a, attenuated below into a slender stipe 12-15// 

 long. 



Macrosporium esculentum E. & E. 



On dried up fryit of egg plant (Salanum esculentum), Newfield, 

 N. J. March, 1893. 



Forms a dense, olive-brown coating, on the dried up fruit. Hyphae 

 subfasciculate, erect, 15-25x4//, rather closely septate, yellowish- 

 brown. Conidia terminal, variable in shape and size, from subglo- 

 bose 8-15// to oblong- elliptical, 12-22 x 10-15//, or obovate 10-15 x- 

 7-12//, pale yellow-brown, 3-septate becoming more or less distinctly 

 muriform, the globose conidia often sarcinulate-septate, ('. e. , with 

 septa crossing each other at right angles, running entirely across. 



This differs from M. tomato Cke. in its shorter hyphae and differ- 

 ently shaped, paler conidia. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 465 



Isaria Virginiensis E. & E. 



On the youug stroma of Hypoxylon rubiginosinn (Pers) ? Nut- 

 tallburg, West Va. July 1893. (L. W. Nuttall, Nos. 95 and 102). 



Stromata gregarious, simple, slender clavate, 1 5-2 mm. high, yel- 

 lowish-white, obtuse and subcapitate at the apex, curved, often decum- 

 bent, clothed nearly to the base with spreading, hyaline, dendroid, 

 1^-2 branching hyphae (sporophores) 40-45 x25/j'., their tips often 

 toothed and bearing 1-4, elliptical or ovate, hyaline 31 x 2^//, 

 conidia. 



Analogous to Imria umhrina Per. (Institale acariforvie Fr), but 

 differs in several respects. 



Illosporium minimum E. & E. 



On rotten wood. Prof Geo. F. Atkinson (No. 308). 



Sporodochia minute, 75-85// diam., contracted below into a very 

 short stipe or subsessile, white at first, becoming yellowish. Hyphae 

 articulate, di-trichotomously branched, the articulations biconical, 

 5-6//. diam. 



Resembles /. pallidum Cke. , but that has sporodochia 200-250/^ 

 diam., with the subglobose terminal articulations of the hyphae 

 8-10//. diam. 



Cylindrocolla acuum E. & E. 



On fallen leaves of Pinus rigida, Newfield, N. J. June, 1893. 



Sporodochia superficial, suborbicular, flattened, pale- flesh color, 

 sometimes sublobate 1-1 mm. diam. , margin and lower side paler. 

 Sporophores branched, soon separating into cylindrical hyaline, 3-4 

 nucleate, concatenate, subtruncate conidia 12-15 x 2-22 /j.. 



Strumella steganosporioides E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Oarpinus Americana, London, Canada. June 

 15, 1893 (Dearness, No. 2117). 



Sporodochia tubercular, of cellular structure, dirty white inside, 

 t-1 mm. diam., sometimes 2-5 connate in a single tubercle. Conidia 

 obovate, globose or subelliptical, 23-35// in the longer diameter, 

 olive-brown, reticulate, hollow and fragile, like the conidia of Steg- 

 anosporium, forming a nearly black layer, attached to the superficial 

 cells of the sporodochium by a very short, thick pedicel. 




'i^^ PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Fusarium Pteridis E. & E. X. A. F. 2982. F. Columbiani 98. 



Farsisitic on Phyllachora Jlabella (Schw.), on old fronds of Pteris. 

 aquiliiia, Xewfield, N. J. June, 1893. 



Erumpent, forming white specks on the Phyllachora. Creeping 

 hyphae septate, branched ; erect hyphae branched, bearing the 

 fusoid, hyaline, straight, 1— 3-septate, 25-40 x 3?// conidia. 



Fusarium granulosum E, & E. 



Cn dead stems of Smilax hispida, Mt. Cuba, Del. June, 1893. 

 (Commons, No. 2091). 



Sporodochia thickly scattered, erumpent, granuliform, light flesh- 

 color, minute. Hyphae stout, irregularly branched, hyaline, fusoid, 

 moderately curved, 3-septate, 30-55 x 3-3?//. 



Resembles small granules of white sugar, scattered over the 

 stems. 




1893.] NATUKAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 467 



THE NORTH AMERICAN LARRID^. 

 By WILLIAM J. FOX. 



The followiug paper is compiled chiefly for the sake of bringing 

 to light some of the numerous new species contained in the collection 

 of the American Entomological Society. Jn the arrangement of the 

 genera I have followed that of Kohl, with one exception : the remov- 

 ing of the genus Lyroda from among the true Larriens — as I think 

 the regularly formed ocelli are sufficient to justify such a cour.se. The 

 term Larrid?e is used simply for the want of another name, as the 

 Bembecidte, Larridie and Nyssonidte seem to merge into one another 

 and are not entitled to family distinction, the connecting links being 

 formed in the genera Xeolarra and Botltynodethu.^, the position of the 

 latter genus being but a matter of opinion, as it seems to be as much 

 related to Ah/son as it does to Dienoplus, anew genus described here- 

 in, which shows the relation of Bofhynodeihas with the lAirrido' more 

 strongly than ever. It is true that the Bembecidre offer better char- 

 acters for their distinction from the Larridte than do the Nyssonidie; 

 however, the discovery of Xeolarra, with its combined Bembecid and 

 Larrid characters, makes an almost complete merging of these three 

 supposed families. I desire to express my thanks to Mr. Wm. H. 

 Ashmead, Prof. C. V. Riley, Mr. J. A. Guiguard, Mrs. Annie T. 

 Slosson,Mr. J. Aldrich, Dr. W. A. Nasou and T. D. A. Cockerell, 

 all of whom have furnished specimens by means of which this article 

 was possible. Our genera may be distinguished as follows:' 

 1 — Inner margins of eyes not eniarginate; marginal cell with or with- 

 out an appendiculatiou 4 



Inner margins of eyes emardnate; marginal ceil without an ap- 



pendicuh\tion 2 



2 — Anterior wings with three culjital cells; abdomen short, ses.silc.o 

 Anterior wings with two submarginal cells; abdomen long, cla- 



vate Trypoxylon. 



3 — Female without a pygidial area; marginal cell nearly a.s long as 

 the three submarginal cells united; antennae of <y not dentate 

 PiSON. 



1 In drawing up descriptions of the genera. I have used freely the descriptions 

 in Kohl's paper. 




468 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Female with a well developed pygidial area ; marginal cell 

 shorter than the first submarginal ; antennae of $ more or less 



dentate Pisonopsis. 



4 — Anterior wings with but two submarginal cells; mandibles emar- 

 ginate on outer margin; first and second submarginal cells each 



receiving a recurrent nervure Miscophus. 



Anterior wings with three submarginal cells 5 



5 — Second submarginal cell petiolate 6 



Second submarginal cell not petiolate 8 



6 — First and second submarginal cells each receiving a recurrent 

 nervure; mandibles emarginate without; eyes converging 



toward the vertex Plenoculus. 



Both recurrent veins received by the second submarginal cell; 



mandibles not emarginate 7 



7 — Antenna? long and slender ;eyes strongly converging to the vertex; 

 last dorsal segment of 9 without a pygidium; ^ unknown 



NiTELIOPSIS. 



Antennte rather short, subclavate; eyes diverging towards the 

 vertex; last dorsal segments of both sexes with a pygidium 



BOTHYXOSTETHUS. 



8 — Marginal cell with an appendiculation,lauceolate or truncate 9 



Marginal cell without an appeudiculation, lanceolate; inner eye 

 margins almost parallel; middle tibia? with two spurs 



DiENOPIiUS. 



9 — Ocelli round, well developed 10 



Hind ocelli distorted, more or less obsolete 12 



10 — Middle tibiae armed with two spurs at apex 11 



Middle tibia? with but one spur; mandibles distinctly emarginate 

 on outer margin; second submarginal cell receiving both recur- 

 rent nervures Lyroda. 



11 — Eyes of the 9 converging towards the top, those of the ^ touch- 

 ing on the vertex; marginal cell more than twice longer than 

 broad; second submarginal cell receiving both recurrent nerv- 

 ures ASTATUS. 



Eyes of both sexes converging towards the top, those of the ^ 

 not touching on the vertex; marginal cell not twice as long as 

 broad; first and second submarginal cells each receiving a re- 

 current nervure Diploplectron. 



12 — Front and face more or less raised along the eye margins 13 



Front and face not at all raised along the inner eye margins 15 



13 — Mandibles armed with one or two teeth within 14 



Mandibles not dentate within; outer side of anterior tibite armed 



with strong spines; pj-gidium ( 9 ) not pubescent Larra. 



14 — Pionotum drawn under the dorsulum, especially at the sides; 

 metauotum longer than the dorsulum; anterior femora of ^ not 

 emarginate near the base; pygidial area covered with a hoar- 

 frost-like pile Xotogonia. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 469 



Prouotuiu uot drawn under the dorsulum; metanotum shorter 

 than the dorsulum; anterior femora of <? emargiuate near the 

 base as in Tachynphex and some species of Tachytes; pygidial 



area on apical portion with short, stiff hairs Axcistromma. 



15 — Comb on anterior tarsi {$) composed of stiff, tolerablj' short 

 thorns; pygidial area entirely covered with pubescence; hind 

 ocelli linear, hooked at upper end; fore femora of $ either 

 emarginate or not emargiuate near base Tachytes. 



Comb on anterior tarsi ( 9 ) composed of very long, flexible spines 

 or bristles; p^-gidial area naked; hind ocelli oval; fore femora 

 [S ) always emarginate near the base Tachysphex. 



PISONOPSIS Fox. 

 Pi so II ops is Fox, Psyche, Nov. 1893, p. 553. 



Form stout; sculpture coarse; head as broad or slightly broader 

 than the thorax, in the S it is distinctly broader ; mandibles distinctly 

 cut out on outer margin; eyes reaching to the base of mandibles, 

 their inner margins converging a little towards the vertex and rather 

 strongly emarginate at about the middle, in the $ they are but 

 slightly emarginate ; ocelli round, regular and distinct, placed in a 

 triangle ; antennse ample, placed immediately behind the clypeus ; 

 shoulder tubercles uot reaching to the tegula? ; raetathorax a little 

 shorter than the dorsulum ; marginal cell long, but not reaching 

 beyond the tip of third submarginal, obtuse at tip, without appendic- 

 ulation ; three submarginal cells, the first more than twice longer 

 than the other two combined, the second petiolated, generally though 

 not always, receiving both recurrent nervures, third submarginal 

 nan-ow, wider below than at the top ; discoidal vein confluent with 

 the iuterno-medial vein ; stigma short, truncate at tip ; legs very 

 feebly armed, the anterior tarsi without comb, middle tibi?e with a 

 single strong spur at apex, tarsal claws entire ; last dorsal segment of 

 the 9 with a distinct pygidial area, in the $ the last ventral segment 

 roundly emarginate at apex. 



This genus is distinguished from Pison by the emarginate mandi- 

 bles, the last dorsal segment of 9 ^vith a pygidial area, by its more 

 robust form and its coarse sculpture. From the other Larrid genera, 

 that have the eyes emarginate i. e. Axdacophilus and Trypoxylon, 

 the form of the al)domen will at once separate it. The male has the 

 flagellum deutated, but this may be only a specific difference. 



Pisonopsis clypeata Fox. 



P. c/rpcala Fox, Psyche, Nov. 1S93, p, 5.53. 9 $ . 



9. — Clypeus convex medially, with large, scattered punctures. 




470 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



produced anteriorly into a strong medial tooth, at the base of the 

 tooth the clypeus is transversely impressed ; front with close, rather 

 coarse punctures, with a distinct, medial, impressed line ; ocelli 

 slightly pitted, forming an equilateral triangle ; top of head and 

 cheeks shining, more finely punctured than the front ; first joint of 

 flagellum a little shorter than the second, which is longer than the 

 third; doi'sulum with distinct punctures, those on the anterior portion 

 finest and closest; scutellum punctured like hind portion of dorsulum; 

 metathorax on sides and posteriorly with coarse striations, the upper 

 surface with a somewhat triangular enclosure, which is on basal por- 

 tion oliliquely ridged, on apical portion transversely ridged ; legs 

 strong, the tibia? and tarsi Avith a very few weak spines ; AAdngs sub- 

 hyaline, iridescent, the apical margins darker, both recurrent nerv- 

 ures generally received by the second submarginal cell, in one speci- 

 men the- first recurrent nervure is confluent with the first transverso- 

 cubital nervure ; al:)domen finely, though distinctly punctured, the 

 second and third dorsal segments rather strongly transversely de- 

 pressed basally ; pygidial area triangular, finely and closely punct- 

 ured; black ; the abdomen rufous; sides of face, clypeus, sides of tho- 

 rax more or less, and the apical margins of abdominal segments 1-5, 

 silvery. Length 9 mm. 



$. — Eyes scarcely emarginate within and converging but little 

 towards the vertex ; ocelli situated in a low triangle, the distance 

 between the hind pair more than twice greater than the distance be- 

 tween them and the nearest eye-margin; antenme shorter than in the 

 $ , joints of the flagellum 1-6 produced into a strong angle or tooth 

 beneath, joints 1-4 much narrowed basally ; fi'om joint six the flag- 

 ellum gradually tapers to the apex ; apical portion of abdomen 

 blackish; last ventral segment roundly emarginate at the apex. 

 Length 7 mm. 

 Nevada. 



PISON Spin. 



Pison Spin. Ins. Lig. Spec, nov., t. II, fasc. IV, p. 255, 1808. Kohl, Verb, zool.- 



bot. Gesell. Wien, XXXIV, p. 180, 1884. 



Head as broad or broader than the thorax. Mandibles without 

 emargination on outer edge ; eyes converging towards the vertex, 

 strongly emarginate within ; ocelli normal, distinct and form a tri- 

 angle ; antennse tolerably long, placed just behind the clypeus, the 

 flagellum slender, rarely club-shaped ; shoulder tubercles not reach- 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 471 



ing to the tegulDe ; metathorax shorter than the dorsulum ; marginal 

 cell long, lanceolate, without appeudiculation; two or three cubital 

 cells, when there are three the second ispetiolated; point of reception 

 of the recurrent nervures by the cubital vein variable; the cubital 

 vein of the hind wings, originates beyond the apex of the submedian 

 cell ; armature of the legs very feeble ; middle tibi;* with one spur; 

 outer side of anterior tibise with or without insignificant spines; 

 second abdominal segment above generally with a transverse de- 

 pression at base ; last doi*sal segment of the female conical, without 

 pygidial area, in the male shorter. 



But one species of Pison has been described from Boreal America, 

 and that I have not succeeded in identifying. 



P. laeve Sm. 

 P. laevis Sm., Cat. Hym. Brit. Mus. IV, 1856, p. 317. 9 . 

 P. laeve Kohl, 1. c. p. 187. 



"9. — Length 3 J lines (7 mm.) Head opaque, the face covered 

 with silvery puliescence ; the metathorax smooth and shining with a 

 few scattered punctures at the sides, the central channel without a 

 carina; a deep elongate-ovate fossula in the middle of the truncation, 

 the margins of the latter rounded ; the wings slightly fuscous, the 

 nervures black ; the two recurrent nervures uniting with the nerv- 

 ures of the petiolated submarginal cell. Abdomen smooth and shin- 

 ing, very delicately punctured, the margins of the segments slightly 

 depressed. ' ' 



Georgia. 



TRYPOXYLON Latr. 



Trypoxylon Latr., Prec. car. gen. lus. 1796; Kohl, 1. c. p, 190. 



Head as bi'oad or a little liroader than the thorax, formed as in 

 Pison ; mandibles without emargination on outer edge ; inner mar- 

 gin of the eyes strongly emarginate ; ocelli normal, distinct; antennae 

 tolerably long, usually clavate, generally more strongly so in the 

 male, last joint almost always elongated, in the female small, in the 

 male strong and exceeds the length in very many cases the thii'd auten- 

 nal joint ; in the hind wings the cubital vein originates on the medial 

 vein Ijeyoud the apex of the submedian cell ; armature of the legs very 

 poor ; middle tibise one spurred ; claws entire ; anterior tarsi without 

 a comb; radial cell of fore wings long, lanceolate, without appendicu- 

 lation ; only one cubital and one discoidal cell; abdomen elongated, 

 clavate ; last segment without pygidial area ; in the female conical, 

 in the male truncate. Size varial)le. 




472 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Our species were monographed a year or two ago;^ conse- 

 quently I have thought it unnecessary to again give the descriptions 

 of the species in full. The following table, which is to be substituted 

 for that in the above mentioned monograph, will assist in identifying 

 the species. 



FEMALES. 



1 — Metanotum not trisulcate 2 



Metanotum trisulcate 15 



2 — Abdomen black, not banded with reddish 3 



Abdomen banded with reddish 9 



3 — Metanotum punctured or with very fine striations 4 



Metanotum more or less striated or rugose 5 



4 — Wings blue-black, thorax with black pile abhitarse. 



Wings with the anterior pair fuscous, posteriors except apex hya- 

 line; thorax with pale pubescence albiiyilosum. 



Wings hyaline, their apical margins and the marginal cell fus- 



cous;thorax and abdomen with a silvery pile excavafum. 



— Metanotum with an enclosed space 6 



Metanotum without an enclosed space 7 



6 — Anterior portion of clyjjeus not strongly carinated, wings except 



apical margin hyaline; posterior tarsi whitish medially 



clavatum. 



Anterior portion of cl.ypeus strongly carinated, wings subfuscous; 



posterior tarsi black .projectum. 



7 — Metathorax sulcate its entire length, more deeply so posteriorly, 



the furrow somewhat interrupted at apex of metanotum 8 



Metathorax sulcate on its posterior face only, the upper surface 



rugose ; cly pens unidentate .frigidwn. 



8 — Clypeus with a broad, quadrate tooth medially ...apicalis. 



Cly pens bidentate bidentatum. 



9 — Metanotum punctured riibrocinctum. 



Metanotum more or less striated 10 



10— Front with a strong projection; anterior half oT clypeus strongly 



carinated tridentatum. 



Front with a longitudinal carina above the antenuse 11 



11 — Antennie entirely black 12 



Antennae, except apical portion reddish-fidvous 14 



12— Posterior tarsi whitish medially; second segment only red 



rufozonalis. 



Posterior tarsi not whitish medially; more than one segment red 



13 



13 — Third antennal joint rather strongly curved, in length about 

 equal to the space between the eyes at the clypeus, fourth and 

 fifth joints equal in length arizonense. 



2 Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc. XVIII, p. 136-148. 




1893. ] NATURAL, SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 473 



Third auteuual joiut but slightly curved, iu length not quite 

 eciualliug the space between the eyes at the cly pens, fourth joiut 



slightly longer than the fifth eaiiforiiicus. 



14 — Thorax black, with golden pubescence; dorsulum finely punctured 



texense. 



Thorax in part rufous; dorsulum very strongly punctured 



colli num. 



15 — Abdomen with base of second and third segments reddish fulvous 



Johnsonii. 



Abdomen entirely black 16 



]B — Front with a Y-shaped carina; clypeus rounded carinatus. 



Front with a short, longitudinal carina; clypeus with a slight 

 medial tooth .fastigium. 



1 — Metanotum not trisulcate 2 



Metanotum trisulcate 13 



2 — Abdomen not banded with reddish 3 



Abdomen banded with reddish 8 



;3^Metanotum punctured or very finely striated 4 



Metanotum striated or rugose o 



4 — Wings blue black; second ventral abdominal segment with a 



strong hook or spine neglectum. 



Wings with the anterior pair fuscous, posteriors hyaline except 



apex; thorax with pale pubescence albijnlosw7i. 



Wings hyaline, their apical margins and the marginal cell fus- 

 cous; thorax with silvery pile excavatum. 



5 — Posterior trochanters armed with a spine elavatum. 



Posterior trochanters unarmed 6 



6 — Metanotum armed with two stout projections at apex; front with 



a strong projection .projeotum. 



Metanotum without any such projections 7 



7 — Apical antennal joint much shorter than the three preceding 



joints .frigidum. 



Apical joint of antennie fully as long, if not longer than the three 



preceding joints united hidentatum. 



8 — Posterior trochanters unarmed 9 



Posterior trochanters armed with a spine 10 



9 — Metanotum punctate; base of second segment reddish 



rubrocinctum. 



Metanotum striated, with two strong projections at apex 



tridentatum. 



10 — Antennae entirely black 11 



Antennte more or less reddish 12 



11 — Clypeus emarginate medially; legs black, the hind tarsi whitish 



medially rufozonalf. 



31 




474 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Clypeus broadly incurved medially, with a tooth in the middle 

 of the incurvation; base of the tibiae and the posterior tarsi 



medially reddish sp inosum. 



12 — Thorax black, with golden pubescence; dorsulum finelj' punc- 

 tured terense. 



Thorax more or less rufous; dorsulum stronglj^ punctured 



Gollinam. 



13 — Front with a Y-shapad carina carinatus. 



Front with a lougitudiaal carina 14 



14 — Four anterior legs fulvous; tarsi ringed with white ornatipes. 



Legs entirely black; anteunte very strongly c\avate.....fasfigium. 



1.— T. albitarse Fab. 



T. aldi/arse Fab., Syst. Piez. p. 180, 1804. 



T.poUtus Say., Bost. Journ. I, p. 373, 1837. 



T. politnm Pack., Proc. Ent. Soc. Phila., YI, p. 413, 1867. 



Massachusetts to Central America ; Brazil (Smith). 



2. — T. neglectum Kohl. 



T. neo-lt'clum Kohl., Verh. zool.-bot. Gesell. Wien, XXXIII, p. 340, pi. 18, 

 fig- 3. $. 



Pennsylvania to Florida; Iowa. 



3. — T. albipilosum Fox. 



T. albipilosum Fox, Trans. Amer. Eat. Soc. XVIII, p. 139, J $ ,pl. 3, fig. 2. 



Pennsylvania to Texas ; Illinois ; Kentucky. 



4. — T. excavatum Sm. 



T. excavatum Sm., 1. c. p. 380, 1856. 9 $ 



Cuba; Jamaica; New York; Illinois. 



5. — T. clavatum Say. 



T. clavatus Say., Bost. Journ. I. p, 374, 9 $ . 



T. clavatum Pack., 1. c. p. 414. 9 ; Fox, 1. c. p, 140, pi. Ill, fig. 11. 



Canada to Texas. 



6. — T. projectum Fox. 



T. projcctumYo'Si, I.e. p. 141. J $. 



Louisiana and Florida. 



7. — T. apicalis Fox. 



T. apicalis Fox, 1. c. p. 142. 9 , pi. Ill, f. 10. 



Canada ; Massachusetts. 



8. — T. frigidum Sm. 



T.frigidum Sm., 1. c. p. 381. 9 ; Pack. 1. c. p, 415. 9 $ . 



Hudson Bay to Virginia, westward to Mt. Hood, Oregon. 



9. — T. bidentatum Fox. 



T. bidentatum Fox, 1. c. p. 143. 9 J^ , pi. Ill, f. 9. 



Massachusetts to Mt. Hood, Oregon. 



10. — T. rubrocinctum Pack. 



T. rubrocinctum Pack. 1. c. p. 416, 9 ; Fox, 1. c. p. 144, ^ 9 , pi. Ill, f. 7. 



New York to Florida. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 475 



11. — T. tridentatum Pack. 



T. tridentatuDi Pack., 1. c. p. 417. J . Fox, 1. c. p. 144. 9 $ . pi. Ill, f. 4. 



Occurs throughout the United States. 



12. — T. rufozonale Fox. 



T. rttfozonalis Fox., 1. c. p. 145, 9 $ pi. Ill, f. 3. 



Colorado ; Piedmont, So. Dakota (Aldrich). 



13. — T. arizonense Fox. 



T. arizonense FOx., 1. c. p. 145, 9 , pi. Ill, f. 13. 



Arizona. 



14. — T. californicum Sauss. 



T. californiciun Sauss., Reise d. Xovara, Zool. II, 1867, p. 78, 9 • 



Closely related to arizonense, but may be distinguished by its 

 stouter form, the greater extent of red on abdomen, and by the char- 

 acters given in the synoptical table. Length 16 mm,, somewhat 

 larger than the size indicated by Saussure. 



15. — T. spinosum Cam. 



T. spinosa Cam., Biol. Centr. Amer.,Hym. II, p. 46, pi. 4, figs. 8, 8a., 8b. $ , 

 T. spinosum Fox, 1. c. p. 145. 



Texas and Mexico. 



16. — T. texense Sauss. 



r. texense Sauss., 1. c. p. 77, 9 ; Fox, 1. c. p., 146. 9 $ . 



Texas ; Las Cruces. N. Mexico (Cockerell). 



17. — T. collinum Sm. 



r. collinuni Sm., 1. c. p. 381. 9 ; Pack. 1. c. p. 415. 9 $ . 



Florida. 



18. — T. carinatum Say. 



T. carinatns Say., Bost. Jour. I. p. 374 $ . 

 T. carinatum Fox, 1. c. p. 147. 



9 . — Antennae long, a little thickened apically, the third and 

 fourth joints about equal in length ; front strongly convex, with a Y- 

 shaped carina as in the $ ; space between eyes at vertex, if anything 

 a little greater than the length of antennal joints three and four 

 united ; antei'ior margin of the clypeus rounded, entire ; abdomen 

 stout, the fir.*t segment but little longer than the second, scarcely 

 nodose at apex and furrowed above on basal portion ; black ; base of 



four hind tibit^e and the medial tarsi, testaceous ; fore-legs ; 



tibial spurs whitish ; face, clypeus, cheeks and thorax more or less, 

 clothed with silvery pubescence ; abdomen A\ith a sparse silvery pile. 

 Length 85 mm. 



Indiana (Say); Philadelphia, Peun. (July 14th, 1891.) 



19. — Trypoxylon Johnsonii Fox. 



T. Juluisoni Fox, 1. c. p. 147. 9 • 



Florida ; Texas. 




476 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



20. — Trypoxylon ornatipes Fox. 



T. ornatipes Fox, 1. c. p. 148. $ . 



District of Columbia; Pennsylvauia. 



21. — Trypoxylon fastigium Fox. 



T. cariiiifrons Fox. (nee. Cam. ), 1. c. p. 142, 9 $ . 



The above name is proposed for carinifrons, Fox (nee Cam). 

 Texas. 



UNIDENTIFIED SPECIES. 



Trypoxylon pennsylvanicum Sauss. 



T. peiinsylvanicion Sauss., 1. c. p, 78, 9 • 



"Parvulum nigrum, cinereo-hirtum ; raandibulis, apice et tegulis, 

 piceis vel ferrugineis ; metanoto basi diviso ; calcaribus luteis ; alis 

 pellueidis margine apicali griseo ; venis fuscis. Long. corp. 0.007; 

 alse 0.0C45." ^ 



"9 Tr. mexicanum simillimum. Differt tamea caracteribus 

 variis : Clypeus subangulosus. Caput orbiculare, sinubus oculorum 

 minus alte sitis, fere in mediis oculis. Frons convexiusculus sed sin- 

 ubus oculorum baud planatis ; thorax coriaceus, impunctatus. Meta- 

 thorax elongatus, postice acute attenuatus, superne subtilissime punc- 

 tulatus vel striolatus, sulco nel carinea divisus ; pleura canaliculo 

 polito profundo exarata ; metapleura superne acute marginate. Ab- 

 dominus Im. segmentum distincte longius, 1§ longitudine secundi et 

 angustius, dimidio basili lineari, sulcato, apice superne paulum 

 tumido. Alfe limpidse, margine apicali griseo ; vena recurrens 2a 

 obsolete perspicua, iuterstitialis, cum v. transverso-cubitali la con- 

 juncta." 



America Borealis, Pennsylvania. 



Trypoxylon striatum Prov, 



T. striatmn Prov., Add. Hyiu. Quebec, p. 283, O . 



" 9 • — Long., 58 pee. Eutierement noir a 1' exception des tarses 

 posterieurs qui sont blancs excepte a la base du premier, article. La 

 face a partir des anteunes a pubescence argeutee, opaque et chagrinee 

 au dessus avec pubescence pale peu abondante, plus apparente sur 

 le metathorax, lequel preseute une legere depression longitudinale 

 sur son disque avec fines stries trausversales. Ailes passablement 

 enfumees, plus claires a la base et au sommet, les inferieures sub- 

 hyalines. Abdomen poll, brillant, a pedicule assez long, s'epaissis- 

 sant continuement du tiers de sa base au sommet le 2e segment 

 plusetroit que le premier a la base, plus large au sommet, tons deux 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 477 



sans trace de ligQe impressiounee sur le dos. — Ottawa (Guignard.)" 

 "Differe du politus Say, par sa plus petite taille, sa face argeutee, 

 et I'absence de ligne impressionn^e sur les segments abdominaux 1 

 et2." 



Trypoxylon sulcus La Munyon. 



T. sit/fus L;i M., Proc. Xebr. Assoc. Adv. Sc, March, 1877. 



" Black ; face, including the emargiuation of the eyes, and sutures 

 of the thorax clothed with dense, short, golden pubescence ; other 

 portions of the body sparsely pubescent. Tibi^, tai'si, second seg- 

 ment of abdomen and second and third joints of the antennae rufous. 

 Wings tinged with rufous, dusky at tips. Antennae subclavate, sub- 

 compressed. Metathorax long, deeply sulcate above. Two first 

 segments of the abdomen petiolate, constricted and deeply sulcate 

 beneath. The balance of the abdomen fusiform. Length f inch." 



Habitat, North Platte, (Nebraska;. This species is evidently 

 synonymous with texense Sauss. 



Trypoxylon unicolor Bve. 



T. uiiicolor Bve., Ins. Afr. et Amer. p. 116, pi. 3. fig. 3. 



"Nigro-fuscum ; alarum apicibus fuscis; abdominis pediculo an- 

 gustissimo, cuneiformi elougato. (Fig. 3). Caroline du Sud. ' ' 



' ' Obs. De chaque cote, au bas des premiers anneaux, on re- 

 marque une tache d'un gris blanc, formee par uu duvet tres-mince, 

 un peu argente." 



NITELIOPSIS Sauiid. 

 Niteliopsis Sauud., Tr. Ent. Soc, London, III. p. 410, 1873. 

 Solierella Kohl, (not Spin.) Verh.-zool. hot. Gesell.. Wien, XXXIV, p. 207. 

 Niteliopsis Fox, Psyche, November, 1893, p. 555. 



Form similar to Pison. Head broader than the thorax ; mandibles 

 acute at tip, if emarginate on outer edge they are but very 

 slightly so; antennie long, slightly thickened medially, rather widely 

 separated from each other at their insertion ; flagellum joints distinct, 

 last joint semi- acute at tip {at \eaist in 9); ^y^^ rather strongly con- 

 verging, so that the space between them at the vertex is about 

 equal to a little more than half of the space between them at the 

 clypeus ; ocelli regular and round, placed so as to form a tri- 

 angle, the hind pair lie distinctly before an imaginary line draum across 

 the veiiex from one j)osterior orbit to the other; topi of p>^'othorax not 

 reaching by far the level of the dorsulum ; shoulder tubercles not reach- 

 ing the tegulre; dorsulum disfivctly n'idcr than broad; metathorax 




478 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



subtruncate behind, about as long as the dorsulum; radial cell nar- 

 rowly elongate, truncate, and with an appendiculation; three sub- 

 marginal or cubital cells, the first much larger than the other two 

 united, the second triangular, petiolatecl and receives both recurrent 

 nervures, the third submarginai oblique and is a little narrowerabove 

 than below; cubital vein of hind wings originates far beyond the 

 apex of the submedian cell ; tibiae and tarsi scarcely armed with 

 spines, middle tibiie one-spurred ; anterior tarsi without comb; pul- 

 villi large, claws small, entire; abdomen narrower and a little 

 shorter than the thorax, dorsal segments 1-3 transversely depressed 

 at base and apex ; second dorsal without any longitndinal impression 

 in the middle; last segment conical, without pygidial area. 



Niteliopsis plenoculoides Fox. 



TV. plenoculoides Fox, Psyche, Nov. 1893. p. 555. 9 • 



9- — Clypeus strongly carinated down the middle; front finely 

 granulated, distinctly impressed down the middle, along the inner 

 eye-margins the front is finely punctured ; eyes strongly converging 

 to the top, the space between them at the vertex is about equal to 

 one-half of the space at the clypeus ; ocelli in a triangle, the lower 

 one situated a little further away from the hind pair, than the hind 

 pair are from each other ; from each hind ocellus, there extends down 

 a short furrow, which reaches a little beyond the fore ocellus; an- 

 tennae tolerably long, reaching to about the tegular, the flagellum 

 tapering on apical half, joints 2 and 3 of the flagellum longest, the 

 first and fourth about equal ; dorsulum with exceedingly close and 

 fine punctures ; metathorax above and on the sides finely granulated, 

 with indistinct striations when viewed in certain positions, at the ex- 

 treme base of upper surface there is a transverse series of small foveae 

 and down the middle there is an impressed line (this is not distinct 

 in one specimen), the posterior face transversely rugose ; tibife and 

 tarsi, with exception of the calcaria unarmed; tarsal claws rather 

 short, stout and not toothed ; abdomen elongate-ovate, the first three 

 doi-sal segments when viewed from the side are seen to be contracted 

 basally and apically; last dorsal segment without a pygidium ; three 

 submarginai cells, the second petiolated, receiving both recurrent 

 nervures, black; two transverse spots on the collar above, posterior 

 half of tubercles, a spot near the middle of hind tibiie and the tibial 

 spurs, whitish; apex of mandibles tegulse and tarsi, testaceous; wings 




1893.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 479 



subhyaline, nervures black ; fiice and clypeus, sides of thorax and 

 abdomen, more or less, with silvery pile. Length 6 mm. 

 New York ; Colorado. 



MISCOPHUS Jurine. 



Miscophiis Jur., Noiiv. meth. class. Hym. p. 205; Kohl, 1. c. p. 218. 



Head \^^der than the thorax; mandibles strongly emarginate on 

 outer edge, not toothed within and with an acute tip ; antennae fili- 

 form, at their insertion rather widely separated and placed immediately 

 behind the clypeus, in the male shorter and thicker; eyes converg- 

 ing but little to the vertex, or not at all; ocelli regular and distinct, 

 and are placed before the line which one may imagine drawn across 

 the vertex from one posterior orbit' to the other, and form a triangle; 

 the top of the pronotum lies but little or not at all below the level of 

 the dorsulum; marginal or radial cell lanceolate, not appendiculate, 

 its size varying in the different species; two submarginal cells, the 

 second of which is petiolated and receives the second recurrent 

 nervure, the first recurrent* nervure is received by the first submar- 

 ginal cell near its apex; cubital vein of hind wings originating far 

 beyond the apex of the submedian cell; armature of the legs very 

 variable, in some species with a well developed tarsal comb, in others it 

 is short and inconspicuous; middle tibij3e one spurred; pulvilli medium ; 

 metathorax generally longer than broad; last segment in 9 conical, 

 in the $ truncato- conical, both sexes without pygidial area. The S 

 differs further from the 9 in the thicker antennse, the feebler and 

 shorter tarsal comb and the obtuse apical segment. But one species 

 has as yet been found in the United States. 



M. americanus Fox. 



J/, anicriramis Fox, Ent. News, I. p. 13S, J ; ibid, II, p. 19tj, $ . 



9 . — Clypeus seemingly divided to three parts or lobes, the mid- 

 dle one of which is largest, convex, its anterior margin rounded and, 

 as well as the other lobes with a transverse impressed line or furrow 

 anteriorly just behind the anterior margin which gives the latter the 

 appearance of being reflexed; front having the appearance of being 

 exceedingly finely granulated, with an impressed line extending from 

 fore ocellus down to the insertion of anteunie; distance between hind 

 ocelli decidedly greater than that l)etween them and the nearest eye- 

 margin; inner eye- margins distinctly though not very strongly 

 converging to the vertex ; antennte rather long, filiform, the 

 the first joint of the flagellnm about one-quarter longer than the 




480 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



second, tlie third joiut is, if auything, slightly longer than the second 

 or fourth ; dorsulum with exceedingly fine and close punctures; 

 scutellum strongly convex, not impressed; metanotum \nth i-ather 

 strong punctures or granules, with a well-defined raised line extend- 

 ing from base to apex; metapleurfe indistinctly striated; tibi;:e and 

 tarsi not at all, the tarsi slightly perhaps, spinose, the fore tarsi with- 

 out comb ; abdomen shining much more finely punctured than the 

 dorsulum ; wings hyaline, the anteriors with their apical margin 

 broadly fuscous, nervures black, marginal cell distinctly shorter than 

 the first submarginal, second recurrent uervure received by the 

 second submarginal cell near its apex; black; teguke brownish ; face, 

 cheeks, thorax and legs more or less clothed with silver}*- pile ; apical 

 margins of abdominal segments 1-4 also with silvery pile. Length 

 4j mm. 



$ . — Very much like the 9 but ditlers in being slightly smaller, 

 the posterior face of metathorax is transversely wrinkled and the 

 second submarginal cell is sub- angular beneath 3-3? mm. 



Camden County, New Jersey in latter part of July. Not com- 

 mon. 



LARK A Fab. 

 Larra Fab., Ent. Syst. t. 11. p. 220. 1T*)3. 

 Larrada Sm., 1. c. p 274. 1856. 



Form robust; head broader than the thorax; mandibles emargin- 

 ate on outer edge, their apex simple and their inner margin not den- 

 tate; antennae tolerably stout; eye% converging towarch the vertex, 

 along their inner margins there extend ledge-like swellings ivhicJt are 

 strongest in the middle and are connected to each other by a transverse 

 swelling which extends acro-<>< the front above the middle, below the 

 transverse swelling there are two longitudinal impressions, evidently 

 for the reception of the scape ; anterior ocellus round and regular and 

 lies far before the two posteriors which are quite flat, longish, placed 

 close to each other and are generally indistinct; the collar is transverse, 

 straight and is not, or only in a very slight degree, depressed beneath the 

 level of the dorsulum ; marginal cell broadly truncate and with an appen- 

 diculation ; three submarginals, the first of which is about as great 

 as the two others united, the second trapezoidal or, if the first and 

 second transverse cubital veins are very approximate to each other 

 subtriangular, and receives both recurrent nervures, the third placed 

 obliquely ; in the hind wings the cubital vein originates a little be- 




1893.] XATURAL SCIENCES OF PHII.ADEI.PHIA. 481 



yond the apex of the submedian cell ; legs stout, femora thick, the 

 armature stroug ; middle coxte wideli/ separated from each other; 

 middle tibice one-spurred; fore tibise, apart from eud spurs and some 

 apical spines, on the outer side tolerably spinose, and in the middle 

 of their inner side armed with a single spine; the tarsal comb is com- 

 posed of a moderate number of short and strong spurs or spines ; claws 

 and their pulvilli tolerably developed; metathorax as long or longer 

 than tlie dorsulum ; abdomen polished, the dorsal ring of third seg- 

 ment of normal construction without basal elevation; last dorsal seg- 

 ment with a pygidial area in the form of a triangle in the 9 the 

 sides of which are slightly bowed outwardly, bearing no pubescence 

 and at the end no little bristles ; in the S the last segment is trape- 

 zoidal and appears margined outwardly as in the species of Tachi/tes 

 and TacIu/spJte.v ; as regards sculpture and punctuation it may be 

 mentioned that it is coarser than in the species of Notogonia. 



Although upwards of two dozen species have been described from 

 the United States as members of this genus, a study of them reveals 

 the fact that but two belong here, the others being either species of 

 Notogonia or Tachysphex. 



1. — L. analis Fab. 



L. analis Fab., Syst. Piez., 1804, p. 220. 



9 . — Scape and pedicellum shining, the flagellum opaque, with the 

 first joint over one-quarter longer than the second, which joint is evi- 

 dently shorter than the third, the latter is about as long as the fourth; the 

 flagellum is thickest basally ; clypeus convex, with tolerably strong 

 and close punctui'es, except on anterior portion where it is impuuctate, 

 the anterior margin rounded ; the front and vertex with the punc- 

 tures much more scattered than on the clypeus, especially behind the 

 ocelli; from the fore ocellus there extends down a deepfui'row; a 

 deep depression behind the posterior ocelli ; dorsulum strongly and 

 densely punctured ; scutellum not so closely punctured, slightly im- 

 pressed, especially posteriorly ; metanotum truncate, granulated, and 

 at base with a raised line which extends about one- fourth its length, 

 posterior face of metathorax transversely wrinkled, the metapleur;e 

 punctured like the dorsulum, though somewhat more finely so ; legs 

 robust, the tibite and tarsi strongly spinose ; tegulte with the anterior 

 portion finely punctured ; abdomen shining, with very fine and in- 

 distinct punctures, dorsal segments 2-5 with a 8inuous row of large 

 punctures wliich begins at the l)ase laterally and goes back nearly to 




482 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



the hind margin from which ph\ce it goes forward to about the middle of 

 the segment and then back again to the liiud margin (this is more 

 distinct in some specimens than in others); pygidial area ^^-ith a few 

 large punctures; black; the last three abdominal segments bright red; 

 face, clypeus, thorax, especially beneath and the legs with a short, 

 appressed, fusco-sericeous pile ; wings fuliginous, iridescent, nervures 

 black ; width ot the second subraarginal cell above less than the 

 space between the recurrent nervures on the culiital nervure. Length 

 17-21 mm. 



New York to Florida, westward to Kansas. The deep black and 

 bright red abdomen gives this species a very striking appearance. 



2. — L. Cressonii Fox. 



L. anieiicana Cr., (nee. Sauss).Tr. Arner. Ent. Soc. IV, p. 214, ^ . 1872. 



$. — Clypeus sub-truncate medially, distinctly punctured, most 

 closely so posteriorly ; first joint of flagellum not over one quarter 

 longer than the second, the latter is a little longer than the third ; 

 front and vertex rather coarsely punctured, most sparsely so on the 

 vertex; space between the eyes at the top nearly equal to the length 

 of antennal joints 2-4 united; dorsulum strongly and densely punc- 

 tured; scutellum distinctly impressed; metauotum more strongly 

 punctured than in atialis, and the medial raised line is longer, ex- 

 tending about half the length of the metanotum ; metapleura? more 

 finely punctured than the dorsulum ; tibise and tarsi tolerably well 

 armed with spines ; abdomen sub-opaque, very finely and closely 

 punctured, no transverse rows of coarse punctures as in analis; black; 

 face, clypeus, cheeks, thorax and legs more or less, with silvery pu- 

 bescence ; apical margins of dorsal abdominal segments 1-5 \nth 

 silvery pile; wings fuliginous, iridescent. Length 11-16 mm. 



Pennsylvania to Louisiana. INIay be the male of (oialis, though 

 scarcely probable. 



UNIDENTIFIED SPECIES. 



Larra laevifrons Sui. 



Larrada laevifrons Sm.,1. c. p. 291. 

 Larra laevifrons Kohl, 1. c. p. 24.5. 



" $ . — Length 4^ lines. — Head and thorax black ; the face thinly 

 covered with silvery pubescence ; the vertex Avith merely a slight 

 elevation above the anterior ocellus, with two smooth spaces behind, 

 between them a smooth, shallow channel which passes a short way 

 upwards towards the vertex terminating in a smooth fovea. Thorax 




1893.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 483 



opake ; the metathorax finely shagreeiied, aud liaviug at the sides a 

 little cinereous pubescence ; wings hyaline, the uervures testaceous ; 

 the apical joints of the tarsi rufo- testaceous. Abdomen: the three 

 basal segments red, the apical ones black; thinly covered with cin- 

 ereous pile, the apical segment very smooth and shining." 



"East Florida (St. John's Blufi)." 



Evidently a Tachysphex, and perhaps identical with T. tarsata. 



Larra canescens Sm. ( Tachysphex?) 



Larrada canescens Sm., 1. c, p. 292. J . 



Larra canescens Kohl, 1. c. p. 242. 



"9. — Length 5 lines. — Black: thinly covered with short ciner- 

 eous pubescence the abdomen being covered above and beneath ; the 

 head, mesothorax and scutellum strongly punctured ; the metathorax 

 shagreened ; the flagellum much thickened towards the base, which 

 is again more slender; the wings brown, the posterior pair clearer 

 at the base ; the anterior tibiie and tarsi obscure ferruginous. Abdo- 

 men : on apical margins of segments the pubescence is bright and 

 silvery, observable in diflfer'eut lights." 



"Georgia." Also very likely Tacliysphex. 



Larra arcuata Sm. (=:Ancish-o>n))ia?) 

 La)'rada arcuata Sm., 1. c. p. 293. 9 • 

 Larra arcuata Patton, 1. o. p. 389. 



" 9 . — Length A\ lines. — Black ; the face with silvery pubescence; 

 the mesothorax subopake ; the scutellum shining and finely punc- 

 tured ; the metathorax with an arcuate striation, the striation curv- 

 ing forwards, interrupted in the middle by a longitudinal carina 

 which runs to the verge of the truncation, the latter has a small tri- 

 angular shape crossed by coarse arcuate stria*, in the middle of which 

 is a deep fovea ; from the fovea a carina runs downwards to the 

 base ; on each side of the fovea the truncation is smooth, and covered 

 ■with silvery white pubescence; wings subhyaline, with a faint cloud 

 at their apical margins. Abdomen smooth and shining, with the 

 apical segment rugose." 



"Canada." Seems to closely resemble TaclujsphexqHehecensuVYOv., 



but the rugose apical segment will exclude it from the genus Tachi/- 



sphex. It may an AnciKtromma. 



Larra pensylvanica Bve. 



L. pensylvanica Pal., Bve.. Ins. Afr. et Amer. p. 118, Taf. III. f. 8, 1805. 



"Noir-luisante ; Ailes ternes." 



"Pennsylvanie. " From an examination of the figure of this spe- 

 cies, given by Beauveois I should refer it to Tachy!<phex. 




484 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



NOTOGONIA Costa. 



Larrada Sm., 1. c. p. 274. 18.56. 



Notogonia Costa, Ann. Mus. Zool. Univ. Xapoli (Ann. IV), p. 80 et 82- 1867. 



La7 ra Patton, Proc. Bo-ston Soc. Nat. History. XX, p. 385. 1880. 



Head a little broader than the thorax ; mandibles emargiuate on 

 outer edge and u)\i\i a tooth or inner edge between the middle and the 

 base, their apex simple ; antennje more slender than in Larra ; eyes 

 converging to the vertex, the convergence greater in the $ than in 

 the 9 iuic^ differing in the various species, generally stronger than the 

 Larra, to which this genus agrees in the ledge-like swellings of the 

 front and the disposition of the ocelli ; the collar is smaller than in 

 Larra and moreover differs from it by being dejjressed beneath the 

 dorsnlum; wings as in the preceding genus ; the legs are proportion- 

 ately longer than in Larra, stoutly armed ; middle coxse widely sep- 

 arated from each other ; middle tibise one-spurred ; anterior tibiae, 

 with exception of their end spurs and a spine not far from the middle 

 of inner side, unarmed ; the comb of fore tarsi is formed of only a 

 moderate number of spines, which at the most are not particularly 

 long and only in a few species reach an extraordinary development; 

 the posterior tibke show, though not always, bat in almost all the spe- 

 cies known, tico sharp longitudinal keels^, which are spinose. The 

 claws are very long, in rare cases with a tooth not far from the base 

 of inner edge; pulvilli small; metathorax as long or longer than the 

 dorsulum ; abdomen not polished as in Larra ; second ventral seg- 

 ment in the middle near the base with a convexity, the size and form 

 of which differs considerably ; commonly the segment appears almost 

 keeled ; to each side of the convexity there is a more or less expanded 

 oval, flat impression of feebler color; these impressions are always 

 present if tJie convexity is distinct and give the hind trochanters a 

 freer motion. The males do not sliow these relations of the third 

 ventral plate or only very slightly ; last dorsal segment ^^^th a py- 

 gidial area, formed in the 9 ^s in Larra and covered u'ith a more or 

 less fine, generally hoar-frost-like pubescence, which easily ivears off 

 and in old individuals is not at all pjerceptible ; at the apex of the py- 

 gidial area there are some stiff" little bristles; the last dorsal segment of 

 the 9 is trapezoidal and often considerably convex and at the apex 

 margined outwardly. 



■* Seemingly not evident in our three species. 




1893.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 485 



One species, formerly referred to Larva and two new species occur 

 in this country. They may be tabulated as follows: 



FEMALES. 



Wings sub-hyaline; apical margin fuscous argtntata. 



Wings dark fuliginous. 



First joint of flagelluni distinctly shorter than the second .... 

 nigripenniH. 



First joint of tiagelluiu about equal to the second .... aequalis. 



MALES. 



Wings subhyaline; apical margin fuscous argentata. 



Wings darli fuliginous aequalis. 



Notogonia argentata Bve. 



Larra argentata Bve., Ins. Afr. et Amer. p. 119. taf. III. f. 9, 1S05. 

 Lyrops argentata Say, Jouru. Nat. Hist. I, p. 370, 1836. 

 Larrada argentata Sm., 1. c. p. 292. 



9 . — Clypeus rounded anteriorly, exceedingly finely and closely 

 punctured, except on anterior portion where the punctures are larger 

 and sparse; first, second and" third joints of the flagellum about equal 

 in length ; space between the eyes at the top is about equal to the 

 length of the first joint of the fiagellum; dorsulum not strongly de- 

 pressed anteriorly in the middle and is indistinctly punctured ; scu- 

 tellum sub-convex, not impressed: metanotum evidently very finely 

 granulated, and with a medial, raised line extending from base to 

 apex, the posterior face, especially laterally, with strong, transverse 

 wrinkles; sculpture of metapleurte like the dorsulum; legs stout, the 

 tibiae and tarsi strongly spinose; comb on fore tarsi not well devel- 

 oped, composed of stout, widely separated spines; sculpture of abdo- 

 men indistinct, the last ventral segment with rather strong punctures; 

 black, the tegulae testaceous behind; head, thorax and legs when 

 held in certain lights clothed with silvery pile, which is densest on 

 clypeus and cheeks, the apical mai'gin of dorsal segments 1-3 also 

 with silvery pile ; wings subhyaline, iridescent, apical margins fus- 

 cous. Length 10-14 mm. 



$. — Closely resembles the 9; autenucC shorter and stouter, the 

 joints more compact, first joint of flagellum shorter than the second; 

 space between the eyes at the top equal to about the length of the 

 first and one-third of the second joint of the flagellum; anterior 

 margin of the clypeus a little produced medially; hind femora with 

 a swelling at the base beneath, the middle femora beneath near 

 the base strongly incurved as are likewise the fore femora ; this sex 




486 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



is more densely clothed with silvery pile aad there are four, some- 

 times five, silvery bands on the abdomen. Length 7-11 mm. 

 Occurs throughout the entire United States. 



2. — Notogonia nigripennis n. sp. 



9 . — Clypeus rounded anteriorly, slightly emarginate medially, 

 the posterior portion with very fine and close punctures, the middle 

 portion with strong punctures while anteriorly the punctures are dis- 

 tinct; first joint of flagellum shorter than the second, the latter about 



equal to the third; remaining joints ; space between eyes at 



the top is, if anything, a little less than the length of the first joint of 

 flagellum; dorsulumnot strongly depressed anteriorly in the middle, 

 with exceeding fine and close punctures; scutellum shining, slightly 

 impressed; metauotum very finely granulated and with a tolerably 

 distinct, medial, impressed line extending from base to apex, the pos- 

 terior face with transverse wrinkles, the metapleur^e indistinctly 

 sculptured; tibi^ and tarsi strongly spinose ; sculpture of abdomen 

 above indistinct, ventral segments 4-6 with strong punctures, those 

 on sixth segment closest; black, tegulpe testaceous posteriorly; front, 

 face, cheeks, legs more or less and dorsal abdominal segments 1-3 

 (or 4) at apex Avith silvery pile; wings dark fuliginous, iridescent. 

 Length 18 mm. 



New York. 



3. — Notogonia aequalis ii. sp. 



9 . — Clypeus rounded anteriorly, emarginate medially, the pos- 

 terior portion with very fine and close punctures, those on the an- 

 terior half more distinct; first joint of flagellum in length about 

 equal to the second, the latter about equal or perhaps slightly longer 

 than the third ; the antennae taken as a whole are long, narroAvedto 

 the apex, in length about equal to the head and thorax combined; 

 space between eyes at the top distinctly less than the length of the 

 first joint of flagellum; dorsulum with very fine and close punctures, 

 which are however a little more distinct than in nigripennh; dorsu- 

 lum distinctly impressed; metanotum granulated, more strongly so 

 than in preceding species, and with a distinct, medial, raised line, 

 extending from base to near apex, the posterior face laterally with 

 a few wrinkles; tibiie and tarsi strongly spinose; abdomen shining, 

 indistinctly sculptured, with exceotion of the fifth and sixth ventral 

 segments which are strongly punctured; black; front and clypeus 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 487 



scarcely silvery; head and thorax beneath with long, fuscous pu- 

 bescence; the abdomen when viewed from behind, shows a sparse 

 silvery pile, which is most obvious at apex of second dorsal segment; 

 the ventral segments of abdomen possess a few long, black hairs or 

 bristles; wings dark fuliginous, iridescent. Length 17 mm. 



(? . — Antenna? somewhat shorter and stouter than in the 9 , the 

 first joint of flagellum in length about equal to the second; space 

 between the eyes at the top slightly less than the length of the pedi- 

 cellum and first joint of the flagellum united; anterior margin of 

 clypeus produced medially; hind femora with scarcely any swelling 

 at base beneath, the remaining femora beneath not at all incurved, 

 strongly convex; apical margins of segments 1-3 when viewed 

 from behind with silvery pile; wings colored like the female. Length 

 12 mm. 



New York and Georgia. 



ANCISTROMMA gen. nov. 

 Body tolerably stout, nev6r densely pubescent; mandibles widely 

 emarginate on outer margin, armed with two teeth within; antenuiB 

 tolerably stout, in length variable, usually longer than in either 

 Taehijtes or Tachysphex, the scape not elongate as in those two genera, 

 but short and stout ; eyes always converging towards the vertex, the 

 convergence different in the various species; 2)osterior ocelli linear 

 at the top broadened and furrowed, which gives them the apjiearance 

 of being fonned into a hook ; anterior ocellus round, well-developed; 

 the head in front is distinctly, though not strongly as in Larra and 

 Notogonia raised or swollen along the inner eye margin ; face behind 

 the base of antennae not bititberculate, at the most presenting a slight 

 swelling; prothorax better developed than in either Taehytes or Ta- 

 chysphex, in some species reaching the level of the dorsulum; sculp- 

 ture of thorax rather coarse; tibia? and tarsi of all the legs strongly 

 spinose, middle tibite with a single spur; pul villi large; claws long as 

 in Notogonia, entire; fore femora of S near the base emargina.te and 

 still nearer the base draion out into a tooth, fore tarsi of 9 with a 

 comb, composed of short stout thorns, in the S this comb is also pres- 

 ent but is much weaker, anterior tibijie on outer side without spines or 

 bristles; last dorsal segment of 9 with a large, coarsely sculptured 

 B.n<\ clothed with pubescence on apical portion, pygidial area; in the 

 $ the eighth ventral segment is not emarginate.* Marginal cell of 

 * One species A. v eg eta, however, has this segment emarginate. 




488 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



anterior wings either truncate or pointed, the appendiculation usually 

 distinct ; three submarginal cells, the second of which receives both 

 recurrent veins ; stigma larger, and conseqnentit/ more distinct than in 

 Tachytes or Tachysphex ; cubital vein of hind wings originating be- 

 yond the apex of the subniedian cell. Size medium. 



This genus is erected for a number of species which, although pos- 

 sessing the characters of each to a certain degree cannot be placed 

 either in Notogonia, Tachytes or Tachysphex. The emarginate 

 femora of the $ excludes them from Notogonia, the raised front 

 along inner eye-margins from Tachytes and Tachysphex and again 

 from Tachysphex by the shape of hind ocelli and stiff' tarsal comb. 

 From Liris, which does not occur in this country, the emarginate 

 mandibles is sufficient to separate it. Ultimately, it seems to me, 

 that a number of genera, belonging to this group, will have to be 

 reduced to the value of sections as has been done with numerous 

 genera of the Sphecidje (s. s. ). This genus gives promise of being 

 one rich in species as eleven are treated of herein. 



femai.es. 

 1 — Space between eyes at top less than, or equal to, the length of 



auteunal joints 2 and 3 united 2 



Space between eyes at top decidedly greater than the length of 



autennal joints 2 and 3 united 5 



2 — Space between eyes at top just about equal to the lengtli of anten- 

 na! joints 2 and 3 united 3 



Space between eyes at top less than the length of antennal joints 



2 and 3 united 4 



3 — Dorsulum finely and very closely punctured, opaque; anterior mar- 

 gin of clypeus with lateral angles strongly produced. . auridenta. 

 Doisulum finely and somewhat sparsely punctured, shining; 



anterior margin of clypeus bidentate dolosa. 



4 — First joint of flagellum not shorter than the second, if anything 

 slightly longer; lateral angles of anterior margin of clypeus 



strongly produced ; w ings fuscous capax. 



First joint of flagellum distinctly shorter than the second; later- 

 ally, the anterior margin of clypeus is usually bidentate; wings 

 clear (the abdomen varies from black to red and black) .... 



distincta. 



5 — Abdomen entirely black 6 



Abdomen more ar less red 8 



6 — Antennae longer than head and thorax united 7 



Antennte, when stretched-out, but little longer than the head 

 and that part of thorax preceding the hind margin of teguhe; 

 fo]in robust ctgeta. 




1893.] NATURAIi SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 489 



7 — Deep-black, not sericeous ; metathorax above rather finely' traus- 



versely striated; wing dark fuscous fetiaiconiis. 



Clothed with sericeous pile; metathorax above very coarsely, trans- 

 versely plicated or rugose; wings subfuscous discreia. 



8 — Wings subhyaline; form rather slender conferta. 



Wings dark fuscous; form stout 9 



9 — Antennie long, setaceous, in length greater than head and thorax 



united divisa. 



Antennae short, stout, in length by no means as great as head and 

 thorax consimUis. 



MALES. 



1 — Space between eyes at top not greater than the length of auten- 



nal joints 2 and 3 united 2 



Space between eyes at top decidedly greater than the length of 

 antennal joints 2 and 3 united, as great or greater than the 



length of joints 3 and 4 3 



2 — First joint of flagellum but little shorter than the second; front 



coarsely sculptured . aurulenta. 



First joint of flagellum nearly one-tbird shorter than the second; 

 front finely sculptured (abdomen varying from entirely black 



to red and black) distincta. 



3 — Wings clear; space between eyes at top about equal to the length 



of antennal joints 3 and 4 united conferta. 



Wings dark fuscous 4 



4 — Space between eyes at top as great, or greater than, the length of 



antennal joints 2-4 united o 



Space between eyes at top less than the length of antennal joints 



2-4 united (deep-black, shining) tennlcormii. 



5 — Clypeus closely punctured throughout; dorsulum opaque, com- 

 pactly punctured 6 



Clypeus rather sparsely punctured; dorsulum shining with the 



punctures tolerably line and separated vegeta. 



6 — AntenucC shorter than head and thorax united; basal abdominal 



segments red 7 



Antennai about as long as head and thorax united; at the most 

 the second abdoininal segment only red (or the abdomen en- 

 tirely black); abdomen finely, though distinctly punctured 

 basally; sculpture of vertex coarser than that of front . ri((/ona. 

 7 — Basal abdominal segments distinctly punctured; last dorsal seg- 

 ment not keeled laterally; metathorax above transversely rugose 



divisa. 



Basal abdominal segments not punctured; la.st dorsal segment 

 distinctly keeled laterally; metathorax above indistinctly stri- 

 ated eoii.si/iiUifi. 



32 




490 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



1. — Ancistromma aurantia Fox. 



Larra aurantia Fox, Ent. News. p. 194. 9 • 



9 . — Anterior margin of clypeus truncate, the lateral angles 

 strongly produced, just before these angles there is a single tooth; 

 front with close punctures, appearing granulated ; vertex very finely 

 and closely punctured ; space between eyes at top just about equal 

 to the length of antenna! joints 2 and 3 ; antennpe tolerably long 

 and setaceous though scarcely as long as the head and thorax united; 

 first and second joints of flagellum about equal in length; dorsulum 

 with the punctures fine and compact; scutellum impressed; meta- 

 thorax rugose, most strongly so on upper surface, on which place 

 there is a distinct, longitudinal, medial furrow; tibiae and tarsi 

 strongly spinose ; pygidial area sparsely and strongly punctured, 

 about one- third longer than it is broad at the base, the apical half 

 densely pubescent. Black; abdomen orange, sometimes with some 

 dark blotches dorsally; head and thorax not pubescent and the ab- 

 domen not pilose ; wings pale fuscous, iridescent, nervures black ; 

 marginal cell on apical portion, separated for about one-fifth its entire 

 length from the anterior margin of the wing, therefore being more or 

 less pointed at apex; tarsi testaceous. Length 11-15 mm. 



$ . — Anterior margin of clypeus rounded-out, emarginate medi- 

 ally and not dentate laterally; front granulated ; vertex very finely 

 and closely punctured ; space between the eyes at top about equal to 

 the length of antennal joints 2 and 3 united ; first joint of flagellum 

 about equal to or very slightly shorter than the second in length; 

 dorsulum and scutellum sculptured as in the 9 , the scutellum im- 

 pressed; legs rather feebly spinose ; colored like the 9 but with the 

 apical abdominal segments black and the wings subhyaline, with 

 the nervures testaceous ; face and clypeus with silvery pubescence, 

 the thorax and abdomen with a sparse, silvery pile. Length 10-11 

 mm. 



Montana; Nebraska; California (Co//. AsJnnedd.) The distance 

 between the recui*rent nervures at the top is usually greater than the 

 distance between the first recurrent nervure and the base of the second 

 submarginal cell. 

 2. — Ancistromma capax ii. sp. 



9 . — Anterior margin of clypeus emarginate medially, the lateral 

 angles strongly produced, just before these angles there is a small 

 tooth ; front finely and closely punctured, rather protuberant on each 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 491 



side of the medial furrow, which is very stroug ; vertex with very 

 fine and close punctures ; space between the eyes at top distinctly less 

 than'the length of antennal joints 2 and 3; antennse tolerably long 

 and setaceous ; first joint of tlagellum, if anything, a little longer 

 than the second ; doi-sulum with fine, even, compact punctures; 

 scutellum much more finely and sparsely punctured than the dorsu- 

 lum, its apical portion impressed ; metathorax striated, most strongly 

 on posterior face the upper surface ^nth the striations irregular; legs 

 strongly spinose ; pygidial area in length, when fully exposed, about 

 twice greater than its \^-idth at the base, strongly and sparsely punc- 

 tured. Black ; abdomen, except last three segments, bright red ; 

 tarsi testaceous ; wings subfuscous, iridescent nervures black ; margi- 

 nal cell on apical portion separated for about one-fifth its length 

 from the anterior margin of the wing, being therefore more or less 

 pointed at apex ; recurrent nervures with the distance between them 

 at the top less than that between the first recurrent nervure and the 

 base of the second submarginal cell. Length 16-17 mm. 

 Colorado and Nevada. 



3. — Ancistromma distincta 8m. 

 Larrada distincta Sm., 1. c. p. 292. 

 Larva distincta Patt., 1. c. p. XX, p. 390. 9 $ • 



9 . — Anterior margin of clypeus emarginate medially, bidentate 

 laterally, the lateral angles not strongly produced; front very finely 

 and closely punctured, the medial furrow distinct but not strong ; 

 vertex with the puuccures finer aud closer than those on the front; 

 space between eyes at top a little less than the length of antennal 

 joints 2 and 3 united ; antenme shorter than the head and thorax 

 united, the first joint of the flagellum about one-third shorter than 

 the second; dorsulum with fine, even, distinct punctures; scutellum 

 punctured likewise, not impressed ; metathorax striated, most coarsely 

 soon posterior face, the striations on upper surface irregular, i. e., on 

 basal portion they are longitudinal until they reach a little beyond 

 the middle, where they curve and extend to the sides, on the poster- 

 ior portion of upper surface the striations are transverse, the upper 

 face has a strong furrow ; legs tolerably strongly spinose ; pygidial 

 area strongly and sparsely punctured, about two and a quarter times 

 longer than it is broad at the base. Black ; tarsi testaceous; wings 

 hyaline, slightly dusky at apex, iridescent ; marginal cell obliquely 

 truncate. Leni^th 11-13 mm. 




492 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



$. — Anterior mai'giu of clypeus roiiuded-out, indistinctly hi den- 

 tate laterally ; front and vertex sculptured similarly to the 9 ; space 

 between eyes at top a little less than the length of anteunal joints 2 

 and o united; first joint of iiagellum fully one-third shorter than 

 the second ; dorsulum more compactly punctured than in the 9 ; 

 scutellum impressed, legs feebly spinose ; colored likethe 9; front, 

 face, clypeus densely and the thorax very sparsely, clothed with 

 silvery pubescence; abdomen with a silvery pile. Length 8-12 mm. 



Var. 9 $ . First two, sometimes three, segments of abdomen 

 bright red. 



Occui's from Canada (^Harrington) to Florida, westward to Mon- 

 tana. From the latter locality I have only seen the black and red 

 variety. The female of this species is what we have heretofore called 

 Larra pensylvanica Bve., but an examination of Beauvois' figure of 

 this latter species invalidates that supposition; peii'<tjh'.'inira is prob- 

 ably a Tachyxphex. 



4."Aiicistromjna dolosa n. sp. 



9 . — Anterior margin of clypeus emarginate medially, bidentate 

 laterally, the outer tooth representing the lateral angles and is by far 

 the largest; front finely and closely punctured; vertex even more 

 finely and closely punctured than the front; space between the eyes 

 at the top about equal to the length of an tennal joints 2 and 3 united, 

 if anvthing it is slightly less; anteumTe much shorter than the head 

 and thorax united, the first joint of Hagellum, if anything a little 

 longer than the second; dorsulum with fine, rather sparse punctures; 

 scutellum impressed (?); metathorax striated, most strongly so on 

 posterior face, the upper surface with the striations irregular and im- 

 pressed medially; legs tolerably spinose; pygidial area strongly and 

 sparsely punctured, about twice as long as it is broad at the base. 

 Black; abdomen bright red ; tarsi testaceous; wings dark fuscous, 

 iridescent, nervures black ; marginal cell apically, separated from 

 the anterior margin of the wing; head, thorax and abdomen entirely 

 destitute of pubescence or pile. Length 13 mm. 



California (Coll. Ashmead). Resembles very much TacJu/sphex 

 triquetrns, but the form of the ocelli and short, stiff tarsal-comb will 

 at once separate it from that species. 




1893.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 493 



6. — Ancistromma tenuicornis Sm. 



Larrada iciiuicoiiiis 8m., I.e. p. 293. J 

 Larra tenuicornis Patt., 1. c. p. 389. 



9 . — Anterior margin of clypeus rounded-out, indistinctly den- 

 tate laterally ; fi-ont granulated; vertex finely and closely punctured; 

 space between eyes at top about equal to the length of antennal joints 

 2, 3 and one-third of 4 ; antenna? very long, setaceous, if anything, 

 longer than the head and thorax united, the first joint of flagellum 

 about one- fifth, or less, shorter than the second; dorsulum with fine, 

 even and distinct punctures ; scutellum impressed; metathorax above 

 with a deep and broad furrow, transversely striated, the metapleurse 

 finely striated, the posterior face irregularly so; legs strongly spinose; 

 pygidial area with large and sparse punctures, scarcely twice as long 

 as it is broad at base. Deep black; shining; tarsi testaceous ; wings 

 dark fuscous, strongly iridescent ; marginal cell obtuse at apex; 

 head, thorax and abdomen entirely nude of pubescence or pile. 

 Length 13-15 mm. 



$ . — Anterior margin of clypeus rounded-out, not dentate later- 

 ally ; front granlated, strongly punctured medially; vertex strongly 

 punctured ; space between the eyes at top as great as the length of 

 antennal joints 2-4 united ; antenna? as long as head and thoi-ax 

 united, joints 1 and 2 of flagellum about equal in length ; scutellum 

 impressed ; metapleune and posterior face of metathorax much more 

 coarsely sculptured than in the 9 ; legs tolerably spiuose; abdomen 

 finely and distinctly punctured ; colored like the 9 ; face, clypeus and 

 metathorax with rather sparse, silvery pubescence ; abdomen with 

 sparse silvery pile. Length 10-13 mm. 



California (Smith and 0. B. Johnxon) ; State of Washington. 

 The deep black color and long antenme will at once distinguish this 

 species. 



6. — Ancistromma discreta n. sp. 



9 . — Anterior margin of clypeus rounded-out, indistinctly dentate 

 laterally; front with strong, distinct punctures, which become much 

 finer laterally ; vertex strongly punctured, but not so much as the 

 front; space between the eyes at to[) about eijual to the length of an- 

 tennal joints 2, 3 and three-fourths of 4 combined ; antennse very 

 long, setaceous, longer than head and thorax united, the first joint of 

 the flagellum fully one-quarter shoi'ter than the second ; dorsulum and 

 scutellum with tolerably strong and distinct punctures, scutellum not 




-^94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



impressed ; metathorax above and behind with coarse, transverse plicse 

 or rug:e, on the raetapleune becoming obsolete on h:)wer portion, the 

 upper surface strongly furrowed medially and with the transverse, 

 basal row of fovese very prominent; legs rather feebly spinose for this 

 sex; pygidial area strongly and sparsely punctured, about one-and- 

 a-half times longer than it is wide at the base, its lateral margins 

 somewhat reflexed. Black ; clothed with sericeous pile, that on sides 

 of face and thorax beneath, silvery in certain lights; last two joints 

 of tarsi only, testaceous; wings subfuscous, darker at apex, iridescent, 

 nervures testaceous ; marginal cell obliquely truncate. Length 

 15 mm. 



Georgia. Easily recognized by coarse sculpture of metathorax 

 and the sericeous pile with which it is clothed. 



7. — Ancistromma conferta ii. sp. 



9 . — Anterior margin of clypeus rounded-out, indistinctly dentate 

 laterally; front fine and closely punctured, more sparsely so medially, 

 the medial impressed line rather faint; vertex a little more distinctly 

 punctured than the sides of the front; space between the eyes at top 

 slightly less than the length of antennal joints 3 and 4 ; antennse 

 setaceous, but little longer than the head and thorax united, first 

 joint of flagellum nearly one- third shorter than the second; dorsulum 

 finely and very compactly punctured ; scutellum more distinctly 

 punctured, slightly impressed; metathorax above rather indistinctly, 

 transversely striated, the striations most distinct in the strong medial 

 furrow, the metapleurie coriaceous; legs tolerably spinose; pygidial 

 area strongly and sparsely punctured, about one-and-a-half times 

 longer than it is wide at the base, its lateral margins but slightly re- 

 flexed. Black ; three, sometimes part of the fourth basal segments 

 of abdomen reddish; tarsi testaceous ; wings fusco- hyaline; iridescent, 

 nervures black; marginal cell truncate; face, clypeus and thorax 

 covered with a sparse, sericeous pile ; abdomen with a sparse, silvery 

 pile. Length 10-15 mm. 



$ . — Anterior margin of clypeus rounded-out, not dentate later- 

 ally ; front and vertex more coarsely punctured than in the 9 ; space 

 between eyes at top about equal to the length of antennal joints, 2-4 

 united ; antenna; shorter than the head and thorax, rather stout, 

 first joint of flagellum about one-quarter shorter than the second ; 

 scutellum impressed ; metathorax above more coarsely sculptured 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 495 



than in the 9 , the metapleura^ and posterior face coarsely granulated; 

 colored like the 9 '■> fi'ont, face, clypeus, and thorax more or less, 

 with silvery pubescence ; abdomen with silvery pile, not distinctly 

 punctured. Length 8-11 mm. 



Montana; Kansas. A specimen from San Diego, California, 

 which I take to be simply a variety, has the abdomen entirely red 

 and its sculpture a little finer. 



8. — Ancistromma divisa Patt. 



J^arra (f/z'isa Patt.. Bull. U. S. Geol, Survey, V, p, 368. 9 . 1879. 



9 . — Anterior margin of clypeus rounded-out, bideutate laterally; 

 front rather coarsely and closely punctured, more sparsely so medial- 

 ly ; vertex more distinctly punctured than the sides of the front ; 

 space between the eyes at top about equal to the length of antenual 

 joints 2-4; antennie scarcely as long as the head and thorax united, 

 at any rate not longer, setaceous, the first joint of the flagellum a 

 little more than one-quarter shorter than the second ; dorsulum com- 

 pactly punctured ; scutellum impressed, more distinctly punctured 

 than the dorsulum ; metathorax above and posteriorly coarsely and 

 transversely striated, the upper surface strongly sulcate medially, 

 metapleurte granulated ; legs tolerably spinose ; pygidial area strongly 

 and sparsely punctured, in length nearly twice longer than its width 

 at the base. Black ; abdomen varying from red and black to en- 

 tirely red ; tarsi testaceous; wings dark fuscous, iridescent; marginal 

 cell truncate; face, clypeus and abdomen with a sparse sericeous 

 pile ; metathorax with sparse, fuscous pubescence. Length 

 1-1—16 mm. 



S . — Anterior margin of clypeus rounded-out, not dentate lateral- 

 ly ; front and vertex more coarsely sculptured than in the 9 ; space 

 between eyes at top somewhat greater than the length of anteunal 

 joints 2-4 united ; antenniie much shorter than the head and thorax 

 united, the first joint of flagellum about one-quarter shorter than the 

 second ; dorsulum with the punctures distinct ; scutellum likewise, 

 impressed; metathorax above transversely rugose; legs feebly 

 spinose ; abdomen closely and distinctly punctured ; last dorsal seg- 

 ment not keeled laterally; first three segments of abdomen red ; 

 front, face, clypeus and thorax more or less, with sparse silvery 

 pubescence ; abdomen with silvery pile. Length 12-13 mm. 

 Kansas ; Nebraska ; Texas. 




496 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



9. — Ancistromma consimilis ii. sp. 



9 . — Anterior margin of clypeus rounded-out, armed vdth one 

 tooth laterally ; front closely punctured, medially the punctures are 

 more distinct, but not sparse ; vertex finely and closely punctured ; 

 space between the eyes at top about equal to the length of antennal 

 joints 2-4 united ; antenme much shorter than the head and thorax 

 united, the first and second joints of the flagellum about equal in 

 length ; dorsulum compactly punctured ; scutellum likewise, im- 

 pressed; metathorax above indistinctly transversely striated, not 

 strongly furrowed, the striations most distinct in the furrow, the 

 metapleurje finely granulated, or indistinctly sti'iated ; legs strongly 

 spinose ; the spines or fore-tarsi longer and stouter than in clivisa ; 

 pygidial area. large, strongly and sparsely punctured, only about one- 

 third longer than its width at the base. Black ; abdomen entirely 

 red ; apical joints of tarsi testaceous ; wings dark fuscous, iridescent; 

 marginal cell obliquely truncate ; head and thorax destitute of 

 pubescence or pile. Length 14 mm. 



S. — Anterior margin of clypeus rounded-out, not emarginate 

 laterally ; space between eyes at top about equal to or slightly 

 greater than, joints 2-4 of antennae united ; antennas not reaching 

 much beyond tegulte, rather stout, the first joint of flagellum about 

 one-quarter shorter than the second ; dorsulum with the punctures 

 compact; scutellum impressed; legs feebly spinose ; basal segments 

 of abdomen above not distinctly punctured, the last dorsal segment 

 distinctly keeled laterally ; first three segments of abdomen red ; head 

 and thorax without silvery pubescence ; abdomen with a sericeous 

 pile. Length 10-13 mm. 



Texas. This species and divisa resemble each other wonderfully, 

 and at a first glance one would suppose that they are the same spe- 

 cies; but the short antennae and large pygidial area of the female, 

 and the male with the basal abdominal segments impunctate and 

 with the last dorsal segment keeled, will easily distinguish it. 



10. — Ancistromma rugosa n. sp. 



<? . — Anterior margin of clypeus rounded-out, not dentate ; front 

 closely punctured, rather sparsely so medially; vertex with the 

 punctures coarser and more separated than those on the front ; space 

 between the eyes at top as great or perhaps slightly greater than the 

 length of antennal joints 2-4 united: antenna? fully as long as head 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 497 



and thoi'ax uuited, setaceous, the first joint of tlagellum but little 

 shorter than the second, dorsulum compactly punctured ; scutelluni 

 impressed ; metathorax above rugose; or coarsely rugoso-granulated, 

 deeply and widely furrowed down the middle, metapleurie and pos- 

 terior face granulated, the posterior face with a prominent, trans- 

 verse ridge near the top ; legs tolerably spinose ; abdomen finely 

 and closely punctured throughout, the last dorsal segment not keeled. 

 Black ; second abdominal segment red; tarsi obscurely testaceous ; 

 wings dark fuscous, iridescent ; marginal cell truncate ; head, thorax 

 and abdomen without pubescence or pile. Length 10-14 mm. 



Var. Abdomen entirely black, more or less with silvery pile. 



Montana; New Mexico (Coll. Ashmead). The longer antenna' 

 will distinguish this species from the male of divlsa and consimili^ to 

 which it is related. 



11. — Ancistromma vegeta n. sp. 



9 . — Anterior margin of clypeus subtruncate, slightly emarginate 

 medially, and indistinctly dentate laterally ; fi*ont with fine even 

 punctures, becoming sparse medially ; vertex punctured somewhat 

 similarly to the sides of the front; space between the eyes at top. if 

 anything, greater than the length of antennal points 2-4 united ; an- 

 tenna? very short, when stretched out about equal to the head and that 

 part of thorax pi'eceding the hind margin of teguhe, not setaceous, 

 the first joint of the tlagellum in length about equal to the second ; 

 dorsulum with tolerably fine, distinct punctures, which are somewhat 

 sparse medially ; scutellum impressed; metathorax delicately and iu- 

 distinctl)^ striated, more strongly so on metapleur^ and posterior face, 

 the upper surface distinctly, but not very sti'ongly furrowed down the 

 middle ; legs strongly spinose ; pygidial area strongly and sparsely 

 punctured, one- half again longer than it is broad at base. Black ; 

 apical joints of tarsi testaceous ; wings dark fuscous, iridescent; 

 marginal cell obliquely truncate ; head, thorax and abdomen, with- 

 out pubescence. Length 15 mm. 



$. — Anterior margin of clypeus rounded-out, slightly emarginate 

 medially ; front and vertex with tolerably strong, separated punc- 

 tures ; space between eyes at top greater by far than the length of 

 antennal joints 2-4 uuited ; antenna' about as long or a little longer 

 than in the 9 , the first joint of the fiagellum about one-quarter 

 shorter than the second ; legs tolerably spinose ; abdomen very finely 




•498 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



aud closely puuctured ; last dorsal segment not keeled, the eighth 

 ventral segment emarginate ; colored like the 9 • Length 11 mm. 

 Colorado. This species is peculiar in having the eighth ventral 

 plate of the $ emarginate, being the only one of our species of An- 

 cktromma possessing that character. From all the other species it 

 may be distinguished by the robust form, deep-black color and very 

 short antennte of 9 . 



TACHYTES Panzer. 

 Tachvtes Pauz., Krit. Eev. II. p. 129, 1806. 

 Lvrops Illig. Eoss., Faun. Etrusc, ed. 2, II, p. 161, 1807. 



Body generally stout, the amount of pubescence ivith which it is 

 clothed variable, some of the species resembling, in a certain degree, bees; 

 anterior femora of the $ beneath near the base entire or emarginate ; 

 comb on fore tarsi composed of short, thorns or spines; pygidial area 

 large, covered with appressed pubescence, mandibles emarginate be- 

 neath ; their inner margin with one or two teeth ; antennae stout, 

 shorter than in the two following genera ; eyes converging towards the 

 vertex, the space between them at that point differing in the vari- 

 ous species; fore ocellus round; the hirul pair very elongate, placed 

 obliquely aud with the upper endjormiug a hook or fiat spir(d ; front 

 )iot raised along the inner orbits as in Notogonia, etc., if anything it 

 is depressed ; sculpture of the thorax not strong; l((st ventral plate of 

 $ with a rounded, wide emargination ; marginal cell lanceolate, its 

 apex slightly obtuse, the appendiculation small and often indistinct, 

 three submarginal cells, the second of which receives both recurrent 

 nervures ; tibiif and tarsi of all the legs armed with spines; spines 

 composing comb on fore tarsi generally not longer than the second joint 

 of the said tarsi, and are thorn-like, not at all flexible in appearance; 

 claws not very long ; metauotum shorter than the dorsulum. 



Our species of this genus have been monographed previously f 

 therefore I will simply reproduce the synoptical tables here. In the 

 first place the genus may be divided into two sections as follows : 



Fore coxce of ^ simple, the fore femora of the same sex, beneath at base, 

 entire; thorax of 9 generally densely pubescent. Appearance 

 bee-like Section I. 



Fore eoxte of ^ with an elongated process, the fore femora of the same 

 sex beneath at the base emarginate; thorax of luales not densely 

 pubescent. Appearance not bee-like Section II. 



STrans. Amer. Ent. Soc, XIX, p. 234. 1892. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 499 



The females of the first section are generally short, robust insects, 

 while those of section II are i-ather long and slender and never have 

 the clypeus produced medially as in the majority of those of the first 

 section. In some respects section II agrees with Tachijspliex, but 

 the spines on fore tarsi of female are not long and flexible, and the 

 pygidium is hairy. 



SECTION I. 



FEMALES. 



1 — Clypeus with the anterior raaigiu in the middle, produced into a 

 large quadrate tooth or lobe, and with several smaller teeth lat- 

 erally 2 



Clypeus with the anterior margin not or scarcely produced into 



a lobe, at the most thickened in the middle 7 



2 — Metauotum strongly sulcate medially 6 



Metanotum not strongly sulcate medially 3 



3 — Third joint of antenu;f about one-quarter longer than the fourth. 4 

 Third joint of antenuce equal to, or but little longer than the 



fourth 5 



4 — Thorax densely clothed with goldeu yellow pubescence so that 

 the sculpture of metanotum is hidden. Length 18-22 mm . . 



validus. 



Thorax sparsely clothed with grayish pubescence; metanotum 

 finely granulated (four hind tibiae w ith a dark stripe within). 



Length 12-14 mm harpax. 



5 — Median process of clypeus divided into two distinct loi)es; space 

 between the eyes at the top equal to the length of joints two 

 and three of antenute, the latter joint, in length about equal to 

 the fourth; front and thorax with golden pubescence . pradator. 

 Median process of clypeus not bilobed, its apex simply incurved; 

 third anteunal joint slightly longer than the fourth; front and 

 thorax clothed with silvery-gray pubescence .... calearaius. 

 6 — The sulcus on metanotum very wide; scutellum scarcelj' im- 

 pressed; pygidium with a coppery lustre .... mandibidaris. 

 The sulcus on metanotum not wide; scutellum distinctly im- 

 pressed; pygidium silvery brevivfutris. 



7 — Abdomen black 8 



Abdomen in part red; head and thorax clothed with dense silvery 



pubescence fulviventris. 



8 — Abdomen dorsally with four silvery bands; front silvery .... 9 



Abdomen dorsally with but three silvery bauds; longer spur of 



hind tibife in length about equal to the first joint of the hind 



tarsi; front goldeu cnissus. 



9 — Longer spur of hind tibije longer than the first joint of the hind 

 tarsi; apex of femora, tibia' and tarsi, yellowish-ferruginous. . 

 eolumbice. 




500 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Longer spur of hind tibite, in length, about equal to the first joint 

 of hind tarsi; legs black, tibiae and tarsi with silvery pile, the 

 apical portion of the tarsi ferruginous pepticus. 



MALES. 



1 — Flagellum with the basal joints not or scarcely rounded out 

 beneath, the apical joints, except in crassus a,\i6. pepticus, ab- 



noinial 8 



Flagellum with the basal joints distinctly rounded out beneath, 



the apical joints normal 2 



2 — ^ Anterior margin of clypeus, in the middle, not produced into a 



tooth or lobe, at the most simply thickened 4 



Anterior margin of clypeus in the middle produced into a tooth 



or lobe 3 



3 — Metanotum slightly suleate; thorax densely pubescent; median 

 process of clypeus not prominent, strongly- im]jressed, having 



the appearance of being bituberculate validus. 



Metanotum distinctly and rather strongly suleate; thorax sparsely 

 pubescent; median process of clypeus strong, not bituberculate. 



breviventris. 



4 — Last dorsal abdominal segment tufted laterall.y with dark hair.7 



Last dorsal abdominal segment not tufted \A'ith dark hair ... 5 



•5— Hind tarsi not at all spiuose; lateral teeth of clypeus large and 



distinct niandibularis. 



Hind tarsi distinctly spinose 6 



6 — First joint of flagellum shorter than the second; space between 

 the eyes at top narrower than usual ; head and thorax densely 



clothed with golden pubescence praedator. 



First joint of flagellum not shorter than the second. 

 Space between the ej^es at the top not greater than the length 

 of antennal joints 2 and 3 united; longest spur of hind tibite 

 longer than the flrst hind tarsal joint; abdomen not at all red . 



calcaratiis. 



Space between the eyes at the top greater than the length of an- 

 tennal joints 2 and 3 united; longest spur of hind tibiae decid- 

 edly shorter than the first joint of hind tarsi; abdominal seg- 

 ments with a transverse band of reddish exornatus. 



7 — Emargination of last ventral plate very narrow; lirst joint of fla- 

 gellum in length about equal to the second; head and thorax 



with golden pubescence harpux. 



Emargination of last ventral plate broad and round; first joint of 

 flagellum shorter than the second; head and thorax with sil- 

 very pubescence coimnbice. 



8 — Apical joints of the antennie normal 9 



Apical joints of the antennae abnormal 10 



9— Apex of femora, tibise and tarsi, yellow-ferruginous; hind tarsi 

 very feebly spiuose crassus. 




1893.] XATLTRAJ. SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 501 



Legs, except apex of tarsi, Waek; hind tarsi rather strong spiuose. 



pepticus. 



10 — Abdonieu in jiart red 11 



Abdomen entirely black fidvireulris vav. 



11 — Two apical joints of the autennse narrow and elongate, much nar- 

 rower than joints 9-ll,whicli are visibly broadened . fidviventris. 

 Two apical joints of the antemne somewhat spatulate, broader 

 than the two preceding joints spatulatus. 



1. — Tachytes validus Cress. 



T. valiihis Cress., Tr. Am. Ent. Soc. IV, p. 310. 9 $ 



T. breviventris Patt., Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist. XX. p. .302. 



Texas; Illinois (Robertson). 



2. — Tachytes mandibularis Patt. 



T. »ia)tdihiilaiis Patt., ibid., p. 394, 9^. 



Connecticut to Florida; Nebraska, Montana. 



3. — Tachytes harpax Patt. 



T. harpax Patt., ihid., p. 39.5. 9 $ . 



Vermont to New Jersey; So. Dakota. 



4. — Tachytes oalcaratus Fox. 



T. calcaratus Fox, Tr. Amer. Ent. Soc. XIX, p, 23!:>, 9 $ . 



New Jersey (in August) and Florida; Montana (?). 

 5. — Tachytes exornatus u. sp. 



$ . — Anterior margin of the clypeus strongly rounded- out medi- 

 ally, with one large, blunt, lateral tooth; third joint of antenuse 

 about equal to the fourth, possibly a little longer; basal joints of 

 flagellum tolerably well rounded-out, but not so strongly as in the <? 

 of ea/c'n'ai»*^;space between the eyes at the top greater than the length 

 ef antennal joints 2 and 3 united; pubescence of the front and clyp- 

 eus golden; dorsulum and scutellum very closely and indistinctly 

 punctured; impressed medial line on metanotum well marked; tibise 

 and tarsi spiuose ; longer spur of hind tibiie decidedly shorter than 

 the first hind tarsal joint; emargination of eighth ventral plate small ; 

 black; scape, teguUe, legs (except coxa\ trochanters and the fore and 

 medial femora above), and a transverse band on the abdominal seg- 

 ments above and beneath, reddish; wings yellow, the apical margins 

 broadly violaceous; the thorax densely clothed with grayish-golden 

 pubescence. Length 17 mm. 



Las Cruces, N. Mexico, August 16tli (T. I). A. Cocke rell.) 



6. —Tachytes breviventris Cre.ss. 



T. /i;7:'/:v«//-/i- Cress., 1. c. p. 21tj, ^ ; Fox, I. c. p. 2.39, 9 ^ . 



Texas and Massachusetts. 




502 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



T.-Tachytes praedator Fox. 



T. praedator Fox, 1. c. p. 240, 9 $ • 



Virginia and Texas. 



8."Tachytes columbiae Fox. 



T. columbice Fox. 1. c. p. 241, J $ . 



District of Columbia, Virginia, New Jersey. 



9.-Tacliytes crassus Patt. 



T. crassus Patt. 1. c. p. 393, J ; Fox, 1. c. p. 241, 9 $ . 



Connecticut, New Jersey (August), So. Dakota, (Aldrieh). 



lO.—Tacliytes pepticus Say. 



Lyrops pepticus Say, Bost. Journ. I, p. 371. 9 $ . 

 fachytes pepticus Sm., Cat. Brit. Mus. Hym. IV, p, 308. 



From Illinois westward. 



11.— TachTtes fulviventris Cress. 



T.fulviventris Cress., Proc. Ent. See. Phila. IV, p. 466. 9 . 

 T. ca-lebs Patt.. Bull. U S., Geol. Survey, V, p. 355. $ . 



From Nebraska westward. 



12.— Tachytes spatulatus Fox. 



T. spatulatus Fox, 1. c. p. 243, ^ . 



Nevada. 



SECTION II. 



FEMALES. 



1 — Greater part of femora reddish 2 



Greater part of femora or the legs entirely, black 3 



2 — Abdomen black, the three first dorsal abdominal segments only 



with silvery pile at apex distinctus. 



Abdomen, except some black blotches on dorsal segments three, 

 four and five, entirely reddi.sh; the first four abdominal seg- 

 ments with silvery pile at apex distinctus var. 



3 — First joint of fore tarsi much contracted basally, apical portion of 



first three abdominal segjuents silvery contractus. 



First joint of fore tarsi not contracted .4 



\ — First two dorsal segments of abdomen, apically, silvery; legs, ex- 

 cept tarsi, black, the tibia? with dense silvery pubescence; 



metanotum distinctly punctured aurulentus. 



First four or five segments silvery 5 



.5 — Space between eyes at top about equal to length of joints 2 and 3 



of antennie united 6 



Space between eyes at top greater than length of joints of the an- 

 tennae 2 and 8 united 7 



6 — Abdomen reddish, or red and black; hind tibiai armed outwardly 



with a series of short, black, stout and blunt thorns 



abdominalis. 



Abdomen Ijlack; posterior tibite armed outwardly with a series of 

 whitish, long and rather acute thorns serieatus. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 503 



7 — Mandibles very broad and flat, with an exceedingly narrow notch; 



abdomen black obscurus. 



IMaudibles of the normal form, with a broad notch 8 



8 — Metauotuni not at all furrowed; abdoiuen varying from red and 

 black to entirely ferruginous; size also variable. . rufofasciatus. 



IMetauotuiu more or less furrowed 9 



9 — Space between eyes at top greater than the length of antennal 



joints 2 and 3 united; clypeus not dentate obductus. 



Space between eyes at top a little less than the length of second 

 and third antennal joints united; clypeus armed with a large 

 prong on each side »irr(/us. 



MALES. 



1 — Wings yellow, with the apical portion dark 2 



Wings not yellow, hyaline or subhyaline 3 



2 — Third joint of antenuj^ nearly one-third longer than the fourth; 

 metauotum distinctly punctured; tibite and tarsi black .... 



aurulentus. 



Third joint of autennje but little longer than the fourth; metano- 

 tum not punctured; apex of femora, tiblie and tarsi yellow fer- • 



ruginous distincfas. 



o — Abdomen and legs more or less red; third joint of antenna^ in 

 length about equal to the fourth; metauotum slightly furrowed; 



femora, except base, reddish rufofasciatus. 



Abdomen and legs black.'- 4 



4 — Space between eyes at top much less than the length of antennal 



joints 2-4 united 5 



Space between eyes at top about equal to the length of antennal 



joints 2-4 united; apical margins of the wings fuscous. . parvus. 



5 — Notch on outer edge of mandibles very narrow; body not densely 



silvery sericeous obscurus. 



Notch on outer edge of mandibles as usual; body rather densely 

 clothed with silveiy sericeous pile serlcatus. 



13.— T. aurulentus Fab. 



Larra atit uleiita Fab.. Syst. Piez. p. 220. 

 Lyrops aiiyuleiita Say. Bost. Journ. I, p. 371. 

 ? Tachytes aurulentus Lep., Hym. III. p. 247. 

 Tachytes auriileittus ^\n., (,'atal. Brit. Mus. IV, p. 306. 

 Liris co.valis Patton, Eiit. News, III, p. 90. 9 $ . 



New Jersey (July and Auaust) to Florida, westward to Texas 

 and Missouri. 



14. — Tachytes contractus Fox. 



T. conlraclus Fox, 1. c. p. 24.5, 9 • 



Georgia. 



* T. viiiiiiiius has been excluded from tliis table as it is a .species of Tachysphex. 




•504 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893- 



IS.^Tachytes distinctus Sm. 



r. distinctus Sm.. Cat. Brit. Mns. Hym. IV, 307. 9 . 

 T. I'/ono-atits Cr. , Tr. Am. Ent. Soc. IV, p. 215. ^ . 



Philadelphia (Smith) to Florida, westward to California. T. elon- 

 (jatii!<, is according to Mr. Charles Robertson, who has taken it in 

 copulation with rf/s^i?id»*', the male of the latter. A 9 specimen in the 

 coll. of the U. S. National Museum from Arizona, has the abdomen 

 almost entirely red and the first four dorsal abdominal segments with 

 .silvery pile at apex. 



16. — Tachytes sericatus Ci-ess. 



T. sericatus Cress., ibid. p. 216. 9 $ • 



Texas, Georgia. 



17. — Tacliytes rufofasciatus Cress. 



T. rufofasciatus Cress.. il)id. p. 217. ^ ; Fox, 1. c. p. 247. 9 $ • 



Georgia to Texas, Nebraska, California. 



18. — T. abdominalis Say. 



Larra abdominalis Say, West. Quart. Eep. II, p. 77, 9 • 

 Larrada abdominalis Cr., loe. cit. I, p. 379. 

 Tachytes abdominalis Cress., loc. cit. IV, p. 217. 



Arkansas (Say), Texas, Mexico. 



19 — Tacliytes obscurus Cress. 



. obscurus Cress., 1. c. p. 217, 9- 

 T. texanus Cress., ibid. p. 217. $ . 



District of Columbia to Mexico. T. ttxanus Cress., is the S of 

 this species. 



20. — Tachytes parvus Fox. 

 T. parvus Fox, 1. c. p. 249, $ . 



New Jersey (August). ^lay be the $ of either of the two follow- 

 ing species. 



21. — Tachytes ohductus Fox. 

 T. obductus Fox, 1. c. p. 250. 9 • 



Tennessee. 



22. — Tachytes mergus Fox. 

 T. >neri;-us Fox. 1. e. p. 250. 9 . 



New Jersey (July). 



UNIDENTIFIED. 



Tachytes dives Lep. 



T. dives Lep., Hym. Ill, p. 247, 9 . 



"Carolina. Museum of M. Serville." 



TACHYSPHEX Kohl. 

 Larrada Sm., Cat. Hym. Brit. Mus., p. IV, p. 274. 1856. 



Za;-r<z Patton, Proe. Bost. Soc. Xat. Hist. XX. p. 385: Cresson. "Synopsis," 

 p. 114. 



Tachysphcx Kohl, Berl. Ent. Zeitschrift, XXVII. H. 1, 1883. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 505 



Form usually slender and only feebly clothed with pubescence, 

 never bee-like as are the typical species of the genus Tachytes; man- 

 dibles distinctly eraarginate on outer side, bidentate within, their 

 apices simple ; antenna? on the average more slender than in Tachytes ; 

 eyes converging towards the vertex ; ocelli lying on a swelling, the 

 anterior is round and distinct, the posteriors reniform and placed 

 obliquely ; front never raised along the inner eye-margins; face hituher- 

 culate behind antennce ; collar not reaching the level of the dorsulum; 

 on the last dorsal abdominal segment is a well developed pygidium 

 in the 9 , which is scarcely developed in the $ , and is entirely naked 

 in both sexes ; the median cell of the hind wings reaches proportion- 

 ately not as far towards the apex of wing as it does in Tachytes; the cu- 

 bital vein originates behind the apex of the submedian cell ; tibite and 

 tarsi spiuose ; tarsal comb of $ very long and flexible ; fore femora 

 of $ at base distinctly emargiuate ; middle tibise with one spur ; fore 

 tibice on outer side spinose; last ventral plate of $ eviarginate. Size 

 variable. 



This genus is well represented in the United States as it is also in 

 Europe. Those of our species heretofore described have in every 

 case been referred to the genus Larra. The form of the hind ocelli 

 will distinguish it most effectually from Ancistromma and Tachytes. 



FEMALES. 



1 — Space between the eyes at top le^^s than the length of autennal 

 joints 2 and 3 united. 

 Metathorax above granulated; femora and tibitt entirely black. 



Length 12 mm ampins. 



Metathorax above strongly reticulated; legs almost entirely red. 



Length about 9 mm Belfragei. 



Space between eyes at top about equal to length of antennal 



joints 2 and 3 united 2 



Space between eyes at top greater than the length of antennal 



joints 2 and 3 united 11 



2 — Metathorax strongly reticulated above; abdomen entirely red . . 



texanus. 



Metathorax coarsely wrinkled above; abdomen about equally red 



and black quehecfnsis. 



Metathorax not strongly reticulated or wrinkled above, at the 



most finely granulated or striated 3 



3 — Hind legs reddish (anterior margin of clypeus rounded out). 

 Pygidial area about two-and-a-half times longer than it is broad at 

 the base; tarsi armed with spines at apex of joints only .... 



As/inucidii. 



Pygidial area not more than twice as long as it it< l)ruad at 

 33 




506 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



the base; tarsi strongly spinose, especially the first joint of the 



posteriors sjjinosus. 



Hiud legs black 4 



4 — Anterior margin of the clypeus strongly- crenated . . . crenulatus. 

 Anterior margin of clypeus not crenated, at the most with two 



teeth laterally 5 



5 — Greater part of abdomen reddish 6 



Abdomen black, or equally red and black 9 



6 — Pj'gidium scarcely twice as long as it is broad at the base .... 



triquetrus. 



Pygldium decidedly" more than twice longer than it is broad at 



base 7 



7 — Antennae long, not setaceous scarcely acuminate apically . . . 



antennatus. 



Antenme as usual, acuminate apically 8 



8 — Anterior margin of clypeus not or but very slightly emarginate. 

 Dorsulum very closely punctured; metathorax above finely coria- 

 ceous; front finely granulated tarsatus. 



Dorsulum shining, with the punctures separated; metathorax 

 above finely granulated; front rather coarsely granulated . . . 



semirufus. 



Anterior margin of clypeus distinctly emarginate; front exceed- 

 ingly finely granulated exsecfus. 



9 — Longer spur of hind tibiae shorter than the first joint of hind 



tarsi; abdomen about equally red and black 10 



Longer spur of hiud tibiie decidedly longer than the first joint of 

 hind tarsi; abdomen with segments broadly testaceous, with at 



least four silver^' bands mundus. 



10— Metathorax above granulated; distance between the third trans- 

 verso-cubital nervure and the apex of marginal cell is usually 

 greater than the width of the third submarginal cell at the top. 



teniiipunctus. 



Metathorax above more or less longitudinally striated or wrinkled; 

 distance between the third transverso-cubital nervure and the 

 apex of the marginal cell less than the width of the third 



submarginal cell at the toj^ decorus. 



11 — Space between eyes at top equal to or greater than the length of 



antennal joints 3 and 4 united 12 



Space between the eyes at top less than the length of antennal 



joints 3 and 4 united 15 



12 — Anterior luargin of clypeus produced medially into a short lobe. 13 

 Anterior margin of clypeus not at all produced into a lobe ... 14 

 13 — Wings hyaline, iridescent; metathorax granulated above .fusus. 

 Wings, except base, fuscous; metathorax above coarselj- reticu- 

 lated fumipennis. 



14 — Metathorax, above, granulated; usually the last two abdominal 

 segments red iennaxitiis. 




1893.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 507 



Metathorax, above, strongly reticulated; usually the last segment 



only red ajncalis. 



15 — Greater part of abdomen black 16 



Greater part of abdomen red or equally red and black 18 



16 — Metanotum reticulated. 



Vertex and dorsulum coarsely punctured; tarsi black . . acuius. 

 Vertex and dorsulum very finely punctured; tarsi reddish on 



apical half nigrior. 



Metanotum smooth or finely granulated, opaque 17 



17 — With dense sericeous pile; wings subhyaline punctifrons. 



Without sericeous pile, deep black; wings dark fuscous . aethiops. 



18 — Tibige, tarsi and femora, in part, red posterus. 



Tibipe and femora black 19 



19 — Metanotum strongly' reticulated asperatus. 



Metanotum longitudinally striated soulptilis. 



Metanotum granulated or coriaceous 20 



20 — Abdomen not at all compressed, depressed throughout .... 21 



Abdomen compressed apicaUy montanus. 



21 — Pygidium in length, but little, if anything, greater than twice its 



width at the base. Length 6 mm pauxUlus. 



Pygidium in length, greater than twice its width at base; meta- 

 thorax above linely granulated consmiilis. 



MALES. 



1 — Space between the eyes at top about equal to the length of anten- 



ual joints 2 and 3 united 2 



Space between the eyes at top greater than the length of antennal 



joints 2 and 3 united 3 



2 — Abdomen black; apex of femora, tibite and tarsi entirely, reddish 



yellow minimus. 



Abdomen on basal half red; femora and tibise not reddish. cegwa^is. 

 8 — Abdomen entirely black, except extreme apex in some few 



species 4 



Abdomen red or black and red 10 



4 — Metathorax above smooth or indistinctly sculptured 5 



Metathorax above coarsely sculptured 6 



5 — Lateral angles of produced portion of anterior margin of clypeus 

 obtuse; metathorax above without a longitudinal, impressed 



line; clothed with sericeous pile punctifrons. 



Lateral angles of produced portion of anterior margin of clypeus 

 acute; metathorax above with a distinct, longitudinal, impressed 



line; deep black, without sericeous pile cethiops. 



6 — Space between the eyes at top decidedly less than the length of 

 antennal joints 2-4 united, but little greater than the length of 



joints 2 and 3 i/iunchts. 



Space between the eyes at toji as great or greater than the 

 length of antennal joints 2-4 united 7 




508 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



7 — Flout, though distiuctly punctured, yet not coarsely so; space 

 between eyes at top about equal to the length of antenual joints 



2-4 united 8 



Front coarsely punctured; space between eyes at top greater than 



the length of antennal joints 2-4 united 9 



8 — Thorax with silvery pubescence; front with an indistinct, medial 



impressed line acutus. 



Thorax without silvery pubescence; front with a distinct, medial, 



impressed line nigrior. 



9 — Abdomen ventrally rather strongly punctured; metapleurse 



coarsely striated ' . . apicalis. 



Abdomen ventrally very finely punctured; metapleurte finely 



striated fusus and terminatus. 



10 — Occiput remarkably depressed in the middle, so that the portion 



behind each eye is much swollen inusitatus. 



Occiput normal 11 



11 — Metapleura? coarsely striated. 



Antennte elongate, the third joint fully twice longer than broad; 

 space between the eyes at top less than the length of joints 3 



and 4 united ampins. 



Antennae short, stout, the third joint about as broad as long; 

 space between eyes at top about ecjual to the length of antennal 



joints 3-5 united texanus. 



Metapleurte not coarsely striated 12 



12 — Space between eyes at top about equal to joints 3 and 4 united . 18 



Space Ijetween eyes at topless than the length of joints Sand 4 . 17 



13 — Flagellum rather short, stout, thickened medially . . . spissatus. 



Flagellum long, slender, not thickened medially 14 



14 — Metathorax above reticulated consimilis. 



Metathorax above not reticulated, at the most tinely granulated. 



. . . • 15 



15 — Abdomen entirely red tarsatus. 



Abdomen black apically 16 



16 — Size small, slender; front finely granulated. Length 6 mm. . . . 



parvulus. 



Size medium, robust; front more punctured than granulated. 



Length 10 mm compcActus. 



17 — Upper surface of metathorax as long as the dorsuluni; form slen- 

 der diibius. 



LTpper surface of metathorax shorter than the dorsulum; form 



stout 18 



18 — Front coarsely and distinctly punctured montanus. 



Front granulated, or else it is so very closely punctured that it 



appears so 19 



19 — Upper surface of metathorax coarsely and irregularly wrinkled. 



qtabecensis. 



Upper surface of metathorax not wrinkled 20 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 509 



20 — Emargiuation of fore femora rounded. Length 7 mm. . exseetus. 



Emarginatious of fore femora more or less angular. Length 10 



mm compactus. 



1. — Tachysphex Ashmeadii u. sp. 



9 . — Clypeus with spai'se, large punctures,its fore margin rounded- 

 out, subtruucate medially and scarcely produced into a tooth later- 

 ally; front coarsely and closely punctured; vertex finely punctured, 

 the occiput even more so; space between the eyes at top about equal 

 to the length of autennal joints 2 and 3 combined; first joint of the 

 flagellum about one- fifth shorter than the second; dorsulum with 

 rather strong, close punctures, depressed medially almost its full 

 length ; scutellum convex, not impressed, punctured like the dorsu- 

 lum; metathorax above finely coriaceous, on the sides and posteriorly 

 very finely striated, the posterior face with a large, triangular fovea 

 at the top; legs ample, tolerably well armed with spines, which ex- 

 cept at the apex of the joints, are lacking on the hind tarsi; margi- 

 nal cell not truncate at apex, more or less pointed; width of the 

 second submarginal cell at the top greater than the width of the third 

 submarginal at the same place; abdomen about as long as the head 

 and thorax together, seemingly impunctate; pygidial area flat, with 

 some indistinct, large, sparse punctures, its length about two-and- 

 a-half times greater than its width at the base. Black; clypeus an- 

 teriorly, mandibles in the middle and spot on scape at apex beneath, 

 reddish-yellow; all the legs (except coxfe, trochanters and anterior 

 femora above) and the abdomen entirely, bright red; upper half of 

 clypeus, face, front and thorax, especially the mesopleurie, with sil- 

 very pubescence; femora and abdomen with a silvery pile, which is 

 most conspicuous on apical half of dorsal segments 1-4 when viewed 

 from behind ; teguhe testaceous ; wings subhyaline, iridescent, nerv- 

 ures testaceous. Length 10 mm. 



San Diego, California, August 23rd, 1891 (Dr. F. Bhmdell). It 

 gives me pleasure to dedicate this pretty species to Mr. Wm. H. 

 Ashmead, as a slight recognition of the many favors which I have 

 received from him. 



2. — Tachysphex Belfragei Cress. 



Larrada Belfraffci Cr., Tr. Amer. Ent. Soc. IV, 1872, p. 215. 9 . 

 Larra Belfragei Patton, 1. c. p. 389. 



9 . — Clypeus with large sparse punctures, its anterior margin 

 rounded out, emarginate medially and produced into two teeth at 




510 PROCEEDIXC4S OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



each extreme side ; frout very finely and closely punctured, appear- 

 ing granulated, the punctures on the vertex are also fine but are not 

 so close as those on the front; space between the eyes at top a little 

 less than the length of antennal joints 2 and 3 united; first joint of 

 the flagellum a little more than one- fifth shorter than the second; 

 dorsulum with distinct, close punctures, its medial portion only de- 

 pressed anteriorly and then not strongly; scutellum convex, not im- 

 pressed, punctured like the dorsulum ; metathorax above strongly 

 reticulated, especially at the base, the sides and posteriorly finely 

 striated, the posterior face with the fovea elongate, acute beneath and 

 broad at the upper end; legs rather stout, well armed with spines; 

 marginal cell truncate; space between the second and third submar- 



ginal cells at the top about equal; abdomen 'L^ Black; spot 



on scape, at apex beneath, mandibles in the middle, and legs except 

 coxie, trochanters and the fore and medial femora above, red ; front, 

 face, clypeus and the thorax more or less clothed with silvery pub- 

 escence, brightest and densest on the face, clypeus and mesopleurse; 

 wings subhyaline, iridescent, nervures testaceous; tegulte yellow. 

 Length about 9 or 10 mm. 



Texas. The type of this species, which seems to be very rare, is 

 in the collection of the United States National Museum. 



3, — Tachysphex posterus n. sp. 

 9 . — Clypeus with large, deep punctures, its anterior margin 

 rounded-out, subtruncate medially, and not dentate laterally; front 

 finely and closely punctured below the middle, but above that the 

 punctures are strong and separated ; the vertex more finely punctured; 

 space between the eyes at the top greater than the length of antennal 

 joints 2 and 3 united, but less than the length of joints 3 and 4; first 

 joint of the flagellum about one- third shorter than the second; dor- 

 sulum with distinct, separated punctures (the punctures are much 

 more distinct than in either of the two preceding species), depressed 

 in the middle for about two-thirds its length, the punctures most com- 

 pact anteriorly ; scutellum convex, not impressed, punctured similarly 

 to the posterior portion of the dorsulum ; metathorax above finely 



* The abdomen of the only specimen seen by me, the type of the species, is lost. 

 I take the following from the original description : "abdomen fulvo-ferrugineus, 

 with a very fine silvery sericeous pile, more dense at the sides and apex of the 

 segments, the three apical segments black." 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 511 



coriaceous, the sides likewise, the posterior face finely and trans- 

 versely striated ; IciTS ample, tolerably well armed with spines; ab- 

 domen above irapuuctate, the last two ventral segments sparsely 

 punctured ; pygidial area flat, with distinct, large, sparse punctures, 

 its length is about two-and-a- half times longer than it is wide at the 

 base. Black; anterior margin of the clypeus, mandibles except base, 

 spot on scape at apex beneath, the tarsi, medial tibije, the hind legs 

 except coxte and trochanters, and the abdomen red; face, front, 

 clypeus and the thorax, especially in the sutures, with silvery pu- 

 bescence; the femora and abdomen with silvery pile, which is most 

 profuse on the abdomen; tegulre and nervures testaceous; wings sub- 

 hyaline, the marginal cell obliquely truncate, width of the third sub- 

 marginal cell at the top greater than the width of the second at the 

 same place. Length 12 mm. 

 State of Washington. 



4. — Tachysphex spinosus u. sp. 



9 ■ — Clypeus with large deep punctures, its fore margin rounded- 

 out, and armed with a tooth laterally; front finely and closely punc- 

 tured throughout; the vertex with the punctures finer; space be- 

 tween the eyes at the top about equal to the length of antennal joints 

 2 and 3 united; first joint of the flagellum about one-quarter shorter 

 than the second; dorsulum with tolerably strong and very close 

 punctures, depressed in the middle for about two-thirds its length, 

 the punctures closest anteriorly; scutellum punctured like the dor- 

 sulum, not impressed; metathorax above finely coriaceous, the sides 

 likewise, but shining, the posterior face transversely striated; legs 

 strongly armed with spines, especially the first joint of the tarsi ; 

 abdomen above impunctate,the last two ventral segments with large, 

 sparse punctures; pygidial area somewhat convex, with indistinct 

 scattered punctures, its length is about twice or perhaps less than 

 twice greater than its width at the base. Black; mandibles in the 

 middle, spot on scape beneath at apex and fore tarsi reddish- testa- 

 ceous; four hind legs except the coxtc, trochanters and femora and 

 base of ti bite of medial legs, and the abdomen bright red; face, clypeus 

 and thorax more or less, with silvery pubescence; femora and ab- 

 domen with silvery pile, which is most obvious on the abdomen when 

 viewed from behind; teguke testaceous ; wings subhyaline, iridescent, 

 the nervures black; marginal cell subacute at apex; width of the 




512 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



third submarginal cell at the top nearly twice greater than the width 

 of the third at the same place. Length 11 mm. 



Los Angeles County, California. (Collection U. S. National 

 Museum.) 



5. — Tachysphex crenulatus n. sp. 



9. — Anterior margin of the clypeus distinctly crenulated; front 

 finely granulated throughout; vertex with very fine and close punc- 

 tures; space between the eyes at top about equal to the length of an- 

 tennal joints 2 and 3 united; first and second joints of the flagellum 

 equal in length; dorsulum very closely punctured, the punctures 

 much stronger than those on the vertex; scutellum slightly impressed 

 anteriorly; metathorax above finely granulated, the metapleurie in- 

 distinctly striated, as is likewise the postei'ior face; legs stout, strongly 

 spinose; abdomen above impunctate, the second and last ventral seg- 

 ments with sparse punctures ; pygidial area with large, scattered 

 punctures, depressed on apical half, its length is about twice greater 

 than its width at the base. Black; mandibles in the middle, and 

 indistinct spot on scape at apex beneath and the tai^si, obscure red- 

 dish; abdomen dark red; teguhe testaceous; wings subhyaline, the 

 nervures lilack; marginal cell subtruncate at apex; space between 

 the second and third submarginal cells at the top about equal. 

 Length 11 mm. 



California. 



6. — Tachysphex tarsatus Say. 



Lari-a farsa/a Say. Western Quarterly Eeporter, II, p. 78. 

 Larrada iarsata Cress., Proc. Ent. Soc. Phila., IV, p. 464. 9 . 



9 . — Anterior margin of the clypeus either slightly emarginate in 

 the middle or entire, armed with one tooth laterally ; front finely 

 granulated ; punctures on the vertex fine ; space between the eyes at 

 the top about equal to the length of anteuual joints 2 and 3 united, 

 perhaps a little greater ; first joint of the flagellum about one-third 

 shorter than the second ; dorsulum more finely punctured than the 

 front, depressed in the middle anteriorly; scutellum punctured like 

 the dorsulum, not impressed; metathorax above finely coriaceous, the 

 metapleura^ indistinctly striated, the posterior face transversely striated, 

 with a long, deep, longitudinal fovea in the middle; legs tolerably 

 well armed with spines; abdomen above impuuctuate, the last two 

 ventral segments sparsely punctured ; pygidial area not so distinctly 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51-3 



defined as in the allied species, about two-and-a-half times longer 

 than it is broad at the base, with distinct, scattered punctures. Black; 

 mandibles in the middle and the apical joints of the tarsi obscure 

 reddish; coloration of abdomen varying from bi'ight red to nearly 

 black; wings subhyaline, iridescent, the nervures black ; mai'ginal 

 cell obliquely truncate; width of the second and third submarginals 

 at the top variable. Length 10-11 mm. 



$. — Front coarsely granulated; vertex and clypeus with very 

 close punctures; space between the eyes at top about equal to length 

 ofantennal joints 3 and 4 united; antennae rather stout and long, the 

 first joint of the flagellum nearly one- half shorter than the second; 

 dorsulum with very close punctures; metathorax above and on the 

 sides finely coriaceous, the posterior face indistinctly striated; legs 

 feebly spinose, the emai*giuatiou on fore femora large; colored like 

 the female except that the legs are more red; the wings are 

 clearer and more iridescent. Length 7-8 mm. 



New Jersey to Florida, westward to Nevada. Although the width 

 ot the second and third submarginal cells at the top is variable, yet 

 in the majority of specimens examined, the second is by far the 

 broadest. Larrada laevifrons Smith is evidently closely related if not 

 identical with this species. 



7. — Tachysphex texanus Cress. 



Larrada texaiia Cr. , Trans. Amer. Amer. Soc, IV, 314. 9 S • 

 Larra fc.raiia Patt.. 1. c. p. 389. 



9 . — Anterior margin of the clypeus subtruncate, the lateral 

 angles sharp, but not dentate; front finely granulated; vertex with 

 fine, distinct punctures; space between the eyes at the top just about 

 equal to the length of antennal joints 2 and 3 united; first joint of 

 the fiagellum scai'cely one-fourth shorter than the second, which is 

 shorter than either the third or fourth joints; dorsulum with fine, 

 even, distinct punctures, which are closest posteriorly; scutellum a 

 little more strongly punctured, slightly impressed; metathorax above 

 finely reticulated, on the sides and behind strongly striated; legs 

 rather slender, in comparison to the preceding species, strongly armed 

 with spines; abdomen above impunctate, the last ventral segment 

 sparsely punctured ; pygidial area tolerably well defined, with 

 aparse, distinct punctures, its length is scarcely two-and-a-half times 

 longer than it is wide at the base. Black; mandibles in the middle, 

 spot on scape at apex beneath and the tarsi, obscure red; abdomen 




'514 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893" 



bright red; head in front and thorax very sparsely clothed with sil- 

 very pubescence ; abdomen also very sparsely clothed with silvery 

 pile; wings subhyaline, nervures black; marginal cell subtruncate; 

 width of the second submarginal cell at the top decidedly greater 

 than that of the third submarginal at the same place. Length 

 9-10 mm. 



Texas; Colorado. A specimen from Georgia which I refer to this 

 species has the dorsulum punctured similarly to T. farsatus Say. 

 From California there are two specimens, which I at first believed to 

 be distinct, that have the front punctured, the dorsulum rather 

 sparsely punctured and the sculpture of the metanotum bordering on 

 both reticulated and granulated. The male of this California form 

 is as follows : 



<? . — Front coarsely granulated; vertex with fine, rather sparse 

 punctures, the clypeus with fine and close punctures; space between 

 the eyes at top about equal to length of antennal joints 2 to 4 united," 

 antennse short and stout, the first joint of the flagellum scarcely 

 one-half shorter than the second; dorsulum with distinct, tolerably 

 strong punctures; metathorax above coarsely granulated or finely 

 reticulated, on the sides and behind distinctly striated; legs feebly 

 spinose; colored like the 9 ; abdomen with distinct silvery pile. 

 Length 7 mm. 



8. — Tachysphex spissatus n. sp. 



$. — Front strongly granulated; vertex finely and closely punc- 

 tured; space between the eyes at top about equal to the length of an- 

 tennal joints 3 and 4 united; clypeus subtruncate, its interior half 

 with coarse punctures; antennae rather long, distinctly thickened 

 medially, the first joint scarcely greater than one-half the length of 

 the second, which is a little shorter than the third; dorsulum very 

 finely and closely punctured, the scutellum likewise, and not im- 

 pressed; metathorax above coriaceous, the sides finely and indis- 

 tinctly striated, the posterior face more distinctly so; legs feebly 

 spinose, the emargination of fore femora large and sub- angular ; ab- 

 domen impunctuate, the last dorsal segment with distinct punctures. 

 Black ; scape beneath at apex, mandibles in the middle and apical 

 joints of the tarsi obscure red; segments 1-3 of the abdomen l)right 

 red; tegula? testaceous; face, front, clypeus and thorax with silvery 

 pubescence ; abdomen with silvery pile ; wings subhyaline, iridescent^ 




1898.] XATURAI. SCIENCES OF PHIEADELPHIA. 515 



nervures testaceous, marginal cell subtruucate; second submarginal 

 cell at the top about equal to, or perhaps slightly greater than the 

 width of the third at the same place. Length 7 1 mm. 

 California. 



9. — Tachysphex dubius n. sp. 



S . — Front finely granulated ; vertex finely and closely punctured; 

 space between the eyes at to|) greater than the length of antennal 

 joints 2 and 3 united, but les> than joints 3 and 4; clypeus in the 

 middle of anterior margin a little produced, not coarsely punctured 

 on anterior half; antenme not or but very slightly thickened medi- 

 ally; the first joiut of the tlagellum more than one-third shorter than 

 the second; dorsulum very finely and closely punctured; metalhorax 

 above coriaceous, the sides indistinctly striated, the hind face more 

 distinctly so; legs feebly spinose, the emargination of fore femora 

 rounded; last dorsal segment of abdomen finely and distinctly punc- 

 tured. Black; scape beneath at apex, mandibles medially and last 

 joint of tarsi obscure reddish; segments 1-3 of abdomen bright red; 

 face, front, clypeus and thorax with silvery pubescence ; abdomen 

 with silvery pile ; wings dark subhyaline, iridescent, nervures black; 

 marginal cell obliquely truncate; width of the second and third sub- 

 marginal cells at the top variable. Length 8-9 ram. 



Camden County, New Jersey, August 24th; Northern Illinois 

 (Dr. Xason). 



10. — Tachysphex semirufus Cress. 



Larrada seniirufa Cr., Proc. Ent. Soc. Phila.. IV, p. 464. 9 . 

 Larra semirtifa Patt., 1. c. p. 389. 



9 . — Anterior margin of the clypeus slightly rounded-out, armed 

 with two distinct teeth on each extreme side; front rather coarsely 

 granulated; vertex with fine distinct punctures; space between the 

 eyes at top about equal to the length of antennal joints 2 and 3 united, 

 perhaps a little greater; first joint of the fiagellum scarcely one-fourth 

 shorter than the second; dorsulum with fine, close, distinct punctures; 

 scutellum a little more strongly punctured ; metathorax above dis- 

 tinctly granulated, indistinctly striated on the sides, the posterior 

 face a little more distinctly striated; legs strongly spinose; abdomen 

 above impunctate, the last ventral segment strongly punctured ; py- 

 gidial area tolerably well defined, sparsely punctured, its length 

 nearly two and a-half times longer than it is wide at the base. Black; 




516 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



scape beneath at apex, mandibles in the middle, and the tarsi except 

 basal joint, obscure reddish; abdomen bright red; face, front, clyp 

 BUS and thorax sparsely clothed with silvery pubescence ; abdomen 

 without silvery pile; wings slightly fuscous, iridescent, nervures 

 black; marginal cell obliquely truncate; space between the second 

 and third submarginal cells at the top about equal. Length 8-9 mm. 

 Colorado. 



11. — Tachysphex asperatus u. sp. 



9 . — Anterior margin of the clypeus a little rounded-out, not den- 

 tate laterally; front coarsely granulated ; vertex with strong punc- 

 tures; space between the eyes at top greater than the length of an- 

 tennal joints 2 and 3 united and less than the length of joints 3 and 

 4 united; first joint of tlagellum but little, if anything, shorter than the 

 second; dorsulum coarsely punctured ; metathorax above strongly 

 rugose or rugoso-reticulate, the sides and behind distinctly striated; 

 legs feebly spinose; abdomen above impunctate, the last ventral 

 segment more or less punctured; last dorsal segment with the pygidial 

 area only developed at apex, and then only to a very slight degree, 

 impunctate. Black; mandibles at apex and the tarsi more or less, 

 obscure red; abdomen bright red; face, front, clypeus and thorax, 

 sparsely clothed with silvery pubescence; the abdomen with a sparse 

 silvery pile; wings subhyaline, iridescent, nervures testaceous; 

 marginal cell obliquely truncate; the second submarginal cell at the 

 top greater than the third at the same place. Length 8 mm. 



Nevada. The coarser sculpture of the dorsulum and the poorly 

 developed pygidial area will distinguish this species from seminifus, 

 which it greatly resembles. 



12. — Tachysphex antennatus u. sp. 



9 . — Anterior margin of the clypeus truncate, armed with a tooth 

 laterally; front finely granulated; vertex finely and closely punc- 

 tured ; space between the eyes at top about equal to the length of 

 antennal joints 2 and 3 united, possibly a little greater ; first joint 

 of the flagellum is long, nearly one-fourth shorter than the second, 

 the flagellum not setaceous; dorsulum finely and closely 

 punctured; scutellum likewise; metathorax above finely granulated, 

 the sides indistinctly striated, the posterior face more distinctly so; 

 legs tolerably well armed with spines ; pygidial area scarcely two- 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 517 



aud-a- half times longer than it is broad at the base, sparsely punc- 

 tured. Black; scape beneath at apex, mandibles in the middle and 

 apical joints of the tarsi obscure reddish ; abdomen bright red, some- 

 what blackish towards apex ; front, face, clypeus and thorax sparsely 

 clothed with silvery pubescence; the abdomen with sparse silvery 

 pile; wings subhyaline, iridescent, nervures black; marginal cell 

 obliquely truncate ; third submarginal cell at the top a little greater 

 than the second at the same place. Length 7 mm. 

 Texas. 



13. — Tachysphex aequalis n. sp. 



<?. — Front very finely granulated; vertex with close and fine 

 punctures; space between the eyes at top about equal to the length 

 of autennal joints 2 and 3 united ; anterior margin of the clypeus 

 subtruncate, armed with a tooth laterally; antenna not thickened 

 medially, the first joint of the flagellum about one-third shorter 

 than the second; dorsulum very finely and closely punctured; the 

 scutellum likewise; metathorax above coriaceous or finely granu- 

 lated, the sides nut or very indistinctly striated, the posterior face 

 coarsely striated; legs feebly spinose, the emargination of fore 

 femora broad. Black ; scape beneath at apex, mandibles medially 

 and the tarsi obscure reddish; first two segments of abdomen except 

 base of the first, red; face and clypeus with dense silvery pubescence, 

 that on the front golden; the thorax also tolerably well clothed with 

 silvery pubescence ; abdomen dorsally with silvery pile ; wings 

 subhyaline, iridescent, nervures testaceous; marginal cell obtuse at 

 apex; second and third submarginal cells at the top about equal. 

 Length 7-8 mm. 



State of Washington. 



14. — Tachysphex sculp tills n. sp. 



9. — Anterior margin of the clypeus subtruncate; front coarsely 

 granulated; vertex with fine, distinct punctures; space between eyes 

 at top greater thau length of antennal joints 2 and o united, but less 

 than joints b and 4 united; antennie long, the fiagellum scarcely seta- 

 ceous, the firstjointof the latter but little shorter than the second; dor- 

 sulum with fine, distinct punctures; metathorax above with coarse, 

 longitudinal striations, the sides and posterior face also coarsely 

 striated ; legs feebly spinose; abdomen impunctate, except last 

 ventral segment; pygidial area well defined, sparsely punctured and 




518 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



about twice as long as it is broad at the base. Black; scape beneath 

 at apex, mandibles medially and apical joints of tarsi, obscure red- 

 dish; abdomen l^right red, with a sparse silvery pile ; front, face and 

 clypeus densely and the thorax sparsely, with silvery pubescence ; 

 wings subhyaline, nervures testaceous; marginal cell truncate, 

 second submarginal cell at the top wider than the third at the same 

 place. Length 7 mm. 



Colorado. The s^^ulpture of metathorax will readily distinguish 

 this species. 



15. — Tachyspliex parvulus Cress. 

 Larrada pat"'iila Cr., Proc. Eut. Soc. Phila., IV, p. 465. $ 

 Larra monfana Patton,!. c. p. 389; Kohl, 1. c. p. 246. 



$. — Front finely granulated; vertex with exceedingly fine and 

 close punctures; space between the eyes at top decidedly greater than 

 the length of anteunal joints 2 and 3 united, about equal tojoints 3 and 

 4 united; anterior margin of clypeus subtruncate, armed with a tooth 

 laterally; antennte rather long, the flagellum not thickened medially,, 

 the first joint of the latter scarcely one-third shorter than the second; 

 dorsulum very finely and closely punctured ; scutellum likewise ; 

 metathorax above coriaceous or finely granulated, the sculpture of 

 .sides indistinct, though evidently finely striated, the posterior face 

 transversely striated ; legs feebly spinose, the emargination of fore 

 femora large. Black; scape and mandibles colored as usual, 

 the tarsi except first joint, reddish; abdomen bright red, with silvery 

 pile; front, face and clypeus with a tolerably dense silvery pubes- 

 cence, the thorax sparsely so; wings subhyaline, iridescent, nervures 

 testaceous; marginal cell obliquely truncate; width of second and 

 third submarginal cells at the top variable. Length 7 mm. 



Colorado. This species is not the $ of montanus as has been 

 supposed by some authors. 



16. — Tachysphex fumipennis u. sp. 



9 . — Anterior margin of the clypeus slightly produced medially, 

 not dentate laterally; front coarsely and distinctly punctured, ver- 

 tex with strong punctures; the furrow which extends back on the 

 occiput deep, giving the latter an emarginate appearance; space be- 

 tween the eyes at the top much greater than the length of anteunal 

 joints 2 and 3 united, about equal to the length of joints 3 and 4; 

 first joint of the flagellum but little shorter than the second; dorsulum 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 519 



with strong, separated punctures; scutellum likewise, not impressed, 

 upper surface of metatliorax very strongly reticulated, the sides 

 coarsely striated; legs tolerably well spiued; pygidium very sparsely 

 punctured, a little more than twice longer than it is broad at the 

 base. Black ; last abdominal segment red ; front, face, cly pens and 

 thorax more or less, with silvery pubescence; abdomen with a dense 

 silvery pile; wings fuscous, base broadly hyaline, nervures black; 

 marginal cell obliquely truncate; second submarginal cell at the top 

 much greater than the third at the same place. Length 10-11 mm. 

 Florida, in the vicinity of St. Augustine (0. W. Johnson). The 

 dark wings and sculpture of metathorax will distinguish this species 

 from its allies. 



17. — Tachysphex fusus n. sp. 



9 . — Anterior margin of the cly pens slightly produced medially, 

 not dentate laterally; front with the punctures coarser and closer 

 than in the species just preceding; vertex strongly punctured; 

 occiput when viewed from l^ehind emarginate at the top; space be- 

 tween eyes at top much greater than the length of antennal joints 2 

 and 3 united about equal to joints 3 and 4 united; first joint of flagellum 

 but little shorter than the second ; dorsulum with strong separated punc- 

 tures; scutellum distinctly impressed ; metathorax above strongly 

 granulated, the sides finely, though distinctly striated; legs tolerably 

 well spined; pygidium sparsely punctured, about two and a half 

 times longer than it is broad at the base. Black; scape beneath at 

 apex and the mandibles in the middle reddish ; tarsi reddish-tes- 

 taceous; last two abdominal segments bright red; front, face and 

 clypeus densely clothed with silveiy pubescence, the thorax sparsely 

 clothed; abdomen with a rather dense silvery pile; wings subhy aline, 

 iridescent, nervures black; marginal cell obliquely truncate; width 

 of the second submarginal cell at the top usually greater than the 

 third at the same place. Length 9-10 mm. 



(? . — Front with coarse, confluent punctures; vertex strongly 

 punctured; space between eyes at top, if anything, greater than the 

 length of antennal joints 2-4 united; anterior margin of the clypeus 

 with the lateral angles sharp and with the medial portion very 

 slightly produced; antenme rather long, the flagellum a little thick- 

 ened medially, the first joint of the latter about one-third shorter 

 than the second; dorsulum with strong, separated punctures; scutel- 




520 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



luni impressed; upper surface of metathorax transversely rugoso- 

 grauulated, the sides rather strongly striated; abdomen if punctured 

 veutrally. it is very finely so. Colored and ornamented like the 9 . 

 Length 7-8 mm. 



Texas; Las Cruces, N. Mexico {T. D. A. Cockerell); Nevada; 

 Montana. The pale wings and sculpture of metathorax will separate 

 this species from the preceding one, while the shape of fore margin 

 of clypeus will distinguish it from termiuatus, which it most re- 

 sembles. The S differs from that of tetviivafKs by the coarsely 

 sculptured front. 



18. — Tachysphex terminatus Smith. 

 Larrada termi)iata Sin., 1. c. p. 291. 

 Laira terminata Patton, ]. c. p. 389. 

 Larra minor Frow, Add. Hyni. Quebec, p. 268. 9 S 



9 . — Anterior margin of the clypeus subtruncate, not produced 

 in the^ middle; front finely granulated ; vertex strongly punctui-ed; 

 occiput v.'hen viewed from behind not, or very slightly, emarginate 

 above; space between the eyes at top about equal to the length of 

 antennal joints 3 and 4 united,if anything slightly less; first joint of the 

 flagellum nearly one-third shorter than the second; dorsulum with 

 tolerably strong and separated punctures, which become close an- 

 teriorly; scutellum very slightly impressed; upper surface of the 

 metathorax granulated, the sides distinctly, though not strongly 

 striated; legs not very .strongly spined; pygidial area sparsely punc- 

 tured, about two and a half times longer than it is broad at the 

 base. Black; mandibles in middle and scape beneath at apex red- 

 dish; tarsi apically reddish- testaceous; last two segments of abdomen 

 bright red; wings subhyaline, iridescent, nervures testaceous; marg- 

 inal cell obliquely subtruncate; second submarginal cell at the top 

 wider than the third. Length 9-10 mm. 



$ . — This sex resembles very closely the S of /»•*»•< but differs as 

 follows : Space between the eyes at top distinctly greater than the 

 length of antennal joints 2-4 united; front a little more closely and 

 finely punctured ; anterior margin of clypeus slightly rounded out,, 

 not produced medially, the lateral angles sharp, almost dentiform ; 

 dorsulum with the punctures sparser; wings more iridescent; legs less 

 strongly spinose. Length 6 mm. 



Canada to District of Columbia; N. Illinois (X<(so>i); Vancouver, 

 A 9 from Nevada which I take to be a variety of this species has 




1893.] NATURAL SCIEKCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 521 



the metathorax above with coarser sculpture and the three apical 

 segments red. Za/ra ?<iiVior Prov., of which I possess a S received 

 from J. A. Guignard, is, as far as the $ is concerned, identical with 



terminatiis. 



19. — Tachysphex apicalis Fox. 



T. apicalis Fox, Journ. N. Y. Entoni. See. I, p. 53. 9 $ 



9 . — Anterior margin of the clypeus rounded out, very slightly 

 emarginate medially, not dentate laterally ; front with rather strong, 

 separated punctures; vertex with the punctures deeper; occiput 

 when viewed from behind slightly emarginate above; space between 

 the eyes at top about equal to the length of antennal joints 3 and 4 

 united; first joint of the flagellum but little shorter than the second; 

 dorsulum with strong, separated punctures, much sparser than those 

 on the front ; upper surface of metathorax coarsely reticulated or 

 rugoso- reticulate, the metapleurte coarsely striated, the posterior 

 face roughened and with the transverse ridge at the top very prom- 

 inent and sinuous; tibi» and, tarsi tolerably well armed with spines; 

 pygidial area sparsely punctured, scarcely twice as long as it is 

 broad at the base. Black; mandibles in the middle reddish; apical 

 abdominal segment bright red; wings slightly fuscous, iridescent, the 

 basal third subhyaline; marginal cell obtuse at apex ; second sub- 

 marginal cell at the top slightly wider than the third at the same 

 place ; head and thorax with sparse silvery pubescence that on the 

 vertex fuscous; abdomen with sparse silvery pile. Length about 

 9i mm. 



$. — Front coarsely and rather closely punctured; occiput dis- 

 tinctly emarginate when viewed from behind ; space between the eyes 

 at top distinctly greater than the length of antennal joints 2-4 

 united; anterior margin of the clypeus a little produced medially; 

 antennae much shorter than in jusus and terminatus, the first joint of 

 flagellum not one-third shorter than the second; dorsulum with 

 strong, separated punctures; scutellum slightly impressed; upper 

 surface of metathorax as in the $ , the sides not so coarsely striated; 

 abdomen rather distinctly punctured ventrally ; the silver pubescence 

 of head and thorax more dense than in the 9 • Length 8 mm. 



Southern Florida. (Afrs. A. T. Slosso)i.) 



20.— Tachysphex acuta Patten. 

 Larva acuta Patt., 1. c. p. 390. 



9 . — Anterior margin of the clypeus rounded out, armed laterally 

 with an indistinct tooth or else entire; front very finely granulated; 

 34 




522 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



vertex witli distinct pimctiires; occiput when viewed from behind 

 very slightly emarginate ; space between the eyes at the top dis- 

 tinctly less than the length of antennal joints 3 and 4 united, but 

 still a little greater than the length of joints 2 and 3 united ; first joint 

 of the flagellum about oue- third shorter than the second; dor- 

 sulum with strong, tolerably well separated punctures, the 

 latter are however closer than in apicalis; upper surface of meta- 

 thorax finely reticulated or reticulato-granulated, the metapleurse 

 rather strongly striated ; tibiee and tarsi tolerably well armed A\'ith 

 spines ; pygidial area sparsely punctured, nearly three times as long 

 as it is broad at base. Black; mandibles medially and scape be- 

 neath at apex, obscure reddish ; apex of abdomen not red ; ^nugs sub- 

 fuscous, iridescent, nervures black; marginal cell subtruncate; wadth 

 of the second and third submarginal cells at the top variable, al- 

 though the second is usually greatest; face, front and clypeus with 

 silvery pubescence, that on the thorax sparser; abdomen with silvery 

 pile. Length 9 mm. 



(?. — Front even more finely punctured than in the 9 ; occiput 

 not or very indistinctly emarginate ; space between the eyes at top 

 about equal to the length of antennal joints 2-4 united, at any rate 

 not greater; anterior margin of clypeus a little more strongly 

 rounded out than in the 9 ; antennse tolerably long, not thickened, 

 the first joint of the flagellum about one-third shorter than the sec- 

 ond; scutellum not impressed; upper sui'face of metathorax rather 

 coarsely granulated, the metapleurse finely striated ; abdomen closely 

 and finely punctured veutrally; pubescence about as in the 9 ; 

 wings paler, the marginal cell more obtuse and narrower at apex. 

 Length 65 mm. 



Connecticut in August ( Paff on) ; Georgia: Florida (Mrs. A. T. 

 Slosson), Cedar Keys, June (Coll. A. E. S.). 



21. — Tachysphex amplus n. sp. 



9 . — Anterior margin of clypeus rounded out, armed with a tooth 

 laterally; front rather strongly and closely punctured becoming 

 granulated towards insertion of antennae ; vertex with distinct, toler- 

 ably close punctures; occiput not at all emarginate, in consequence 

 of the impressed line not being strong ; space between the eyes at top 

 about equal to the length of the third joint of antennae; first joint of 

 the flagellum but little shorter than the second; dorsulum with tol- 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 523 



erably fine and close punctures; scutellum slightly impressed; meta- 

 thorax above strongly gi'anulated, the metapleuraj rather coarsely 

 striated as is likewise the posterior face; tibiB and tarsi well armed 

 ^\•ith spines; pygidial area feebly and sparsely punctured, but little, 

 if anything longer than t^\'ice its width at the base. Black; man- 

 dibles medially, scape beneath at apex and tarsi, except first joint, 

 reddish; abdomen bright red, without silvery pile; wings subhyaline, 

 scarcely iridescent, nervures black; marginal cell obliquely trun- 

 cate; width of the second submarginal cell at the top decidedly 

 greater than the width of the third at the same place; head and 

 thorax very sparsely clothed with silvery pubescence. Length 14 

 mm. 



$ . — Front coarsely granulated, on upper portion becoming punc- 

 tured; vertex with distinct, rather sparse punctures, those on the 

 clypeus very fine and close; space between the eyes at top greater 

 than the length of antennal joints 2 and 3 united, but decidedly 

 shorter than 3 and 4 united; antenme similar to the 9 > the first joint 

 of the flagellum a little more than one-quarter shorter than the second, 

 the second, third and fourth joints about equal; anterior margin of 

 clypeus subtruncate; dorsulum with distinct, tolerably close punc- 

 tures; metathorax above granulated, on the sides and behind 

 striated; legs feebly spinose; colored like the female. Length 10 

 mm. 



Nevada ; New Mexico. This is one of our largest species. 



22. — Tachysphex montanus Cress. 

 Larrada montana Cr., Proc. Ent. Soc. Phila. IV, p. 46.5. J> . 

 Larra montana Patt., 1. c. p. 389. 



9 . — Anterior margin of clypeus subtruncate, with a large tooth 

 laterally; front with rather tine and close, though distinct punctures; 

 vertex very finely and closely punctured; space between the eyes at 

 top less than the length of antennal joints 3 and 4 united, but greater 

 than the length of joints 2 and 3 united; first joint of the flagellum 

 about one-quarter shorter than tlie second ; dorsulum with very fine and 

 close punctures; scutellum slightly impressed ; metathorax above 

 finely coriaceous, the raetapleurse likewise, posterior face indistinctly 

 striated; legs strongly spinose; abdomen stout, more or less com- 

 pressed, especially apically; pygidial area sparsely punctured, its 

 length a little more than twice greater than it is wide at base. 

 Black; mandibles medially, scape beneath at apex and tarsi, except 




•524 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



first two joints, obscure reddish; abdominal segments 1-3 bright red; 

 wings subhyaline, iridescent, nervures testaceous; marginal cell 

 subtruncate; width of the second and third submarginal cells at the 

 top about equal; head in front and the thorax sparsely clothed 

 with silvery pubescence; abdomen without silvery pile. Length 

 11-12 mm. 



$. — Front and vertex a little more strongly punctured than in 

 the 9 ; anterior margin of clypeus subtruncate, not dentate laterally; 

 space between eyes at top greater than the length of antennal joints 

 2 and 3 united, but less than the length of joints 3 and 4 united; an- 

 tennre long, setaceous ; first joint of flagellum about one-quarter shorter 

 than the second; dorsulum with very fine and close punctures; meta- 

 thorax above and on the sides finely coriaceous; legs tolerably well 

 armed with spines ; colored like the 9 ^ '^ut the wings darker. 

 Length 9-11 mm. 



Colorado. 

 23. — Tachysphex decorus u. sp. 



9 . — Anterior margin of clypeus subtruncate, dentate laterally; 

 front finely granulated; vertex finely and closely punctured; space 

 between the eyes at top about equal to the length of antennal joints 

 2 and 3 united; first joint of the flagellum but little shorter than the 

 second; dorsulum very finely and closely punctured; scutellum not 

 impressed; upper surface of metathoraxwith tolerably strong longitudi- 

 nal, sinuous striations or folds, the metapleurie very indistinctly 

 striated, the posterior face more distinctly so; legs rather strongly 

 spinose; pygidial area impunctate, very narrow on apical portion, 

 its length about two-and-a-half times longer ^than it is wide at the 

 base. Black; mandibles medially, scape beneath at apex and tarsi, 

 except basally, reddish; alidomen without silvery pile, the first three 

 segments bright red; wings subhyaline, iridescent, nervures testa- 

 ceous; marginal cell broadly and obliquely truncate; second submar- 

 ginal cell at the top greater than the third at the same place; face 

 and clypeus with sparse silvery pubescence; thorax with a spax'se sil- 

 very pile. Length 9 mm. 



Dakota. Based on a specimen labelled Larrada dakota Cress., 

 which is evidently only a manuscx-ipt name. 



24, — Tachysphex inusitatus n. sp. 



$ . — Fi'ont finely and closely punctured, widely channelled down 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 525 



the middle, on each side of which it is protuberant; anterior margin 

 of the clypeus subtruncate, not dentate laterally; occiput is remark- 

 ably depressed, which causes the cheeks to bulge somewhat at the top; 

 space between eyes at the top about equal to the length of antenna! 

 joints 3 and 4 united; antennae tolerably long, strongly setaceous, 

 the first joint of the flagellum scarcely one-quarter shorter than the 

 second; dorsulum with fine and close punctures; scutellum, slightly 

 impressed; metathorax above finely coriaceous, the metapleurte in- 

 distinctly striated, the posterior face more distinctly striated. Black; 

 mandibles medially, scape beneath at apex and tarsi more or less, 

 reddish; abdomen without silvery pile, the firstthree segments bright 

 red; wings dark subhyaline, iridescent, nervures testaceous; mar- 

 ginal cell obliquely subtruncate; width of second and third submar- 

 giual cells at the top about equal ; front, face and clypeus with a 

 tolerably dense, silvery pubescence. Length 9? mm. 



Colorado. The peculiar form of the head will at once distinguish 

 this species. 



25. — Tachysphex tenuipunctus n. sp. 



9 . — Anterior margin of the clypeus subtruncate, dentate lateral- 

 ly; front finely granulated; vertex finely and closely punctured; 

 space between the eyes at top about equal to the length of antennal 

 joints 2 and 3 united; first joint of the flagellum scarcely one-quar- 

 ter shorter than the second ; dorsulum very finely and closely punc- 

 tured; scutellum slightly though distinctly impressed; metathorax 

 above granulated, the metapleurre finely coriaceous, the posterior face 

 faintly striated; pygidial area with tolerably strong, sparse punc- 

 tures, not narrowed more than usual apically, and is about two- 

 aud-a-half times longer than it is wide at the base. Black; mandi- 

 bles medially, scape beneath at apex and the tarsi more or less (the 

 latter palest), reddish; abdomen without silvery pile, the first three 

 segments, sometimes only half of the third, bright red; wings sub- 

 hyaline, iridescent, nervures testaceous; marginal cell obliquely 

 subtruncate; width of the second and third submarginal cells at the 

 to}) about equal, if otherwise the second is usually widest; front, 

 face and clypeus with sparse silvery pubescence; thorax nude. 

 Length 9-11 mm. 



Mt. Hood, Oregon ; l^rit. Columbia; Montana; Custer, South 

 Dakota (Aldrich) ; Canada (?). Greatly resembles decorus, but 




526 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



differs in the sculpture of metathorax and the form of pygidiura. 

 Two jipecimeus from Colorado, I refer with some doubt to this 

 species; they measure 14 mm. 



26. — Tachysphex exsectus n. sp. 



9 . — Anterior margin ot the clypeus in the middle distinctly 

 emarginate and armed laterally with at least two strong teeth ; front 

 very finely and closely punctured; (it is difficult to determine in 

 some species whether the front is punctured or granulated); vertex 

 even more finely punctured ; space between the eyes at top about 

 equal to the length of autennal joints 2 and 3 united ; first joint of 

 the flagellum fully one-third shorter than the second ; dorsulum very 

 finely and closely punctured ; seutellum not impressed ; upper surface 

 of metathorax finely granulated, metapleurse finely coriaceous, the 

 posterior face striated; legs rather strongly spinose; pygidial area 

 strongly and sparsely punctured, its length fully two-and-a-half times 

 greater than it is wide at the base. Black; mandibles medially, 

 scape beneath at apex and the tarsi reddish (the tibiie are sometimes 

 indistinctly reddish) ; abdomen with a sparse silvery pile, the first 

 three segments red ; wings pale subhyaline, iridescent, nervures tes- 

 taceous; marginal cell obliquely subtruncate; width of the second 

 and third submarginal cells at the top about equal ; front, face, clypeus 

 and thorax with a silvery pubescence densest and brightest on the first 

 mentioned parts. Length 9 mm. 



S . — Space between eyes at top greater than the length of anten- 

 nal joints 2 and 3 united, but less than that of joints 3 and 4 united; 

 anterior margin of clypeus subtruncate, not emarginate or dentate; 

 upper surface of metathorax striated at the base; colored like the 9 ; 

 marginal cell obliquely truncated. Length 7 mm. 



Montana; Mt. Hood, Oregon. I am in some doubt whether what 

 I have described as the $ , really belongs to this species ; although 

 agreeing more closely with this, yet their locality would seem to indi- 

 cate relationship to tenuipunctiis, to which species I had at first re- 

 ferred it. 



27. — Tachysphex consimilis n.sp. 



9 . — Anterior margin of clypeus subtruncate, not emarginate and 

 not dentate laterally; front finely granulated; vertex finely and 

 closely punctured; space between eyes at top greater than the length 

 of antennal joints 2 and 3 united, but a little less than the combined 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 527 



length ofj<iints 8 and 4; first joint of flau-ellum scarcely cue-quarter 

 shorter than the second: dorsulum very finely and closely punctured; 

 metathorax above granulated, nietapleura? very finely striated; pvgi- 

 dial area sti'ongly and sparsely punctured, a little more thau twice 

 longer than it is wide at the base. Black; mandibles mediallv, 

 scape beneath at apex and the tarsi, except first joint, reddish; al)do- 

 men without silvery pile, the first three segments red; wings pale 

 sulihyaline, iridescent, nervures testaceous; marginal cell obliquely 

 subtruncate; second and tliird submargiual cells at the top about 

 equal, if otherwise, the third is widest; front, face and clypeus 

 with sparse silvery pubescence ; thorax on sides and beneath, with a 

 silvery pile. Length 7 mm. 



$ . — Front very finely granulated; space between the eyes at top 

 equal to or a little greater than the length of antennal joints 3 and 4 

 united; autennje tolerably long and stout, the first joint of flagellum 

 about one- third shorter than the second; the metathorax is more 

 coarsely sculptured than in the female, the upper surface being 

 strongly granulated and the base striated; colored like the female; 

 pubescence on face denser; thorax with distinct silvery pubescence ; 

 abdomen with silvery pile. Length 7-8 mm. 



Montana. Greatly resembles exsectus, but the eyes are more widely 

 separated at the top, etc. 



28. — Tachysphex quebecensis Prov. 



Larra cjuebecensis Prov., Faun., Ent. Can. II, 633. 9 $ ■ 



9 . — Anterior margin of clypeus subtruncate, dentate laterally, 

 sometimes indistinctly so; front finely granulated; vertex finelv and 

 closely punctured; space between the eyes at the top about equal to 

 length of antennal joints 2 and 3 united ; first joint of the flagellum 

 but little shorter than the second; dorsulum very finely and closely 

 punctured; scutellum distinctly impressed; metathorax above 

 coarsely wrinkled, the metapleune coarsely striated, the posterior 

 face not so strongly striated ; pygidial area strongly and sparsely 

 punctured, nearly two and a half times longer than it is broad at the 

 base. Black; mandibles in the middle, scape beneath at apex and 

 the tarsi apically, reddish; abdomen more or less with silvery pile, 

 the first two segments bright red; wings dark subhyaline, iridescent, 

 nervures blackish; marginal cell obliquely truncate; width of the 

 second and third submarginal cells at the top variable; head in front 

 and thorax with a sparse, silvery pubescence. Length 10-11 mm. 




528 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



S. — Front finely granulated; space between eyes at top greater 

 than the length of antennal joints 2 and 3 united, but a little less 

 than that of joints 3 and 4 united ; antenm« rather long and slender,the 

 first joint of flagellura about one- third shorter than the second; an- 

 terior margin of clypeus slightly emargiuate; metathorax more 

 strongly sculptured above than in the 9 , but the striatious of meta- 

 pleur^e are not so strong; colored like the 9 , with the pubescence of 

 head and thorax more profuse. Length 9 mm. 



Canada (J. A. Guignard); Maiue; Massachusetts. Resembles 

 very much tenuipundns, but the sculpture of metathorax will at once 

 distinguish it from that species. 



29. — Tachysphex compactus u. sp. 



S . — Anterior margin of clypeus subtruncate, not dentate later- 

 ally; front with fine and close punctures, appearing somewhat granu- 

 lated; vertex very finely and closely punctured; space between the 

 eyes at top about equal to the length of antennal joints 3 and 4 

 united ; antenna? tolerably long and slender, the first joint of the 

 flagellum scarcely one-third shorter than the second; dorsulum very 

 finely and closely punctured; scutellum impressed; metathorax 

 above coriaceous, the metapleurse and posterior face finely and 

 rather indistinctly striated; legs strongly spinose. Black; man- 

 dibles medially, scape beneath at apex and the tarsi, except basal 

 joints, reddish; abdomen with a sparse, sericeous pile, the first three 

 segments red; wings subhyaliue, not strongly iridescent, nervures 

 testaceous; marginal cell obliquely subtruncate; second submarginal 

 cell a little broader at the top than the third; front, face and 

 clypeus with silvery pubescence, the thorax sparsely so. Length 9 

 mm. 



Vancouver; Colorado. May be the $ of fenuipunetus, but I 

 scarcely believe it possible. Its robust form will at once distinguish 

 it. 

 30. — Tachysphex triquetrus ii. sp. 



9 . — Anterior margin of clypeus indistinctly emarginate medial- 

 ly, armed with a large tooth laterally; front very finely and closely 

 punctured, the vertex even more finely so ; space between eyes at top 

 about equal to the length of antennal joints 2 and 3 united ; first 

 joint of flagellum but very little shorter than the second ; dorsulum 

 punctui'ed like the front, perhaps more finely so; scutellum im- 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 529 



pressed ; metathorax eutirely coriaceous; legs strongly spinose, more 

 so thau iu any of the other species, except aethiops; pygidial area 

 strongly and sparsely punctured, scarcely twice as long as its width 

 at the base, forming an almost perfect triangle. Black ; mandililes 

 medially, scape beneath at apex and the tarsi, except first joint, red- 

 dish ; abdomen bright red, with exception of a few blotches dorsally 

 and with a sparse silvery pile; wings subhyaline, not iridescent, 

 nervures dark testaceous; marginal cell obliquely subtruncate; 

 head and thorax absolutely without silvery pubescence. Length 

 14 mm. 



Nevada. A very distinct species. 



31. — Tachysphex aethiops Cress. 



Larrada aethiops Cr. , Proc. Ent. Soc. Pliila.. IV, p. 465. f . 

 Larra aelltiops Pattou, 1. c. p. 389. 



9 . — Anterior margin of clypeus subtruncate, either entire, or 

 slightly emarginate medially and with a large tooth laterally, front 

 very finely and closely punctured, the vertex even more so; space be- 

 tween eyes at top somewhat ' greater than the length of antennal 

 joints 2 and 3 united, but much less than that of joints 3 and 4 united; 

 first joint of flagellum distinctly shorter than the second; punctures of 

 dorsulum, though finer, are more distinct than those of the front; 

 scutellum not impressed; metathorax entirely coriaceous; legs 

 strongly spinose; pygidial area strongly and sparsely punctured, 

 about two-aud-a-half times longer than it is wide at the base. Eutirely 

 black, except mandibles medially, scape beneath at apex and the 

 apical joints of the tarsi, which are reddish ; abdomen without silvery 

 pile and the head and thorax destitute of silvery pubescence; wings 

 dark fuscous, iridescent, the posteriors pale at base, nervures black ; 

 marginal cell obliquely subtruncate. Length 12—15 mm. 



S . — Anterior margin of clypeus truncate, not emarginate, the 

 lateral angles not dentate, but strongly produced ; front very finely 

 granulated ; space between eyes at top about equal to length of an- 

 tennal joints 3 and 4 united ; antennae long and slender, first joint ol 

 flagellum about one-third shorter than the second; scutellum slightly 

 impressed; metathorax coriaceous, above with a distinct, medial im- 

 pressed line ; colored like the female ; face, front and clypeus with 

 silvery pubescence; marginal cell obtuse at tip. Length 9-10 mm. 

 Colorado; Nevada; State of Washington. Its entirely deep 

 black color and dark wings will distinguish this species from any of 

 its allies. 




530 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



32. — Tachysphex nigrior n. sp. 



9 . — Anterior margin of clypeus subtruucate, entire, not or 

 indistinctly dentate laterally; front very finely granulated; vertex 

 very finely and closely punctured; space between the eyes 

 at top greater than the length of antenal joints 2 and 3 

 united, but a little less than that of joints 3 and 4; antennse long 

 and slender, first joint of fiagellum nearly one-third shorter than the 

 second; dorsulum with fine, tolerably close punctures, but neither 

 as fine nor a? close as those on the vertex; scutelhim not impi'essed; 

 metathorax above rather delicately reticulated, the metapleurse and 

 posterior face distinctly, but not strongly, striated; legs, in compari- 

 son to triqnetrus and lethiops, feebly spinose; pygidial area strongl}'' 

 and sparsely punctured, its length about two- and-a-half times greater 

 than it is wide at base. Entirely black, except mandibles medially, 

 scape beneath at apex and last three joints of tarsi, which are red- 

 dish; wings subhyaline, iridescent, nervures blackish; marginal cell 

 obliquely subtruncate; second submarginal cell at the top usually 

 somewhat wider than the second; face and clypeus with sparse, sil- 

 very pubescence; thorax nude; abdomen sparsely pilose. Length 7—9 

 mm. 



<? . — Anterior margin of clypeus as in the 9; front likewise; 

 space between the eyes at top about equal to the coml)ined length of 

 antennal joints 2, 3 and 4; antenme not veiy long, rather stout, the 

 fiagellum thickened somewhat medially, with the first joint not 

 much shorter than the second; scutellum slightly impressed; meta- 

 thorax sculptured as in the 9 , but more strongly ; colored like the 

 opposite sex. Length 6-8 mm. 



State of Washington. One specimen, a female, has the basal seg- 

 ments of abdomen obscurely reddish, which would indicate that there 

 may be examples with the abdomen red and black. 



33. — Tachysphex pauxillus n. sp. 



9 . — Anterior margin of the clypeus subtruncate, armed with a 

 distinct tooth laterally ; front very finely granulated; vertex very 

 finely and closely punctured; space between the eyes at top greater, 

 but not much, than the length of antennal joints 2 and 3 united, much 

 less than that of joints 3 and 4 united; antennae long and slender, the 

 first joint of fiagellum nearly one-third shorter than the second; dor- 

 sulum with very fine, tolerably close punctures, the latter are as fine 




1898. ] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 531 



as those of the vertex; nietathorax above granulated, the meta- 

 pleurre and posterior lace distinctly, though not strongly, striated ; 

 leg's feebly spinose; pygidium strongly and sparsely punctured, its 

 length but little greater than twice its Avidth at the base. Black; 

 mandibles medially, scape beneath at apex and the most of tarsi, 

 reddish; abdomen not pilose, and, excepting the last two segments 

 bright red; wings subhyaline, nervures testaceous; marginal cell 

 obliquely truncate; face and clypeus with sparse silverv pubescence. 

 Length 6 mm. 

 California. 



34. — Tachysphex punctifrons Fox. 



Larra pinu/i/rons Fox, Ent. News. II. p. 194. 9 • 



9 . — Anterior margin of clypeus with or without an emargination 

 medially, armed with a tooth laterally; front finely and evenly 

 punctured, appearing granulated; the vertex more finely punctured; 

 space between eyes at top spmewhat greater than the length of an- 

 tennal joints 2 and 3 united, but much less than that of joints 3 and 

 4 united; dorsulum like the vertex; first joint of fla:gellum but little 

 shorter than the second; scutellum slightly impressed; metathorax coria- 

 ceous, the posterior face indistinctly striated ; legs strongly spinose; 

 pygidial area sparsely and strongly punctured, its length fully two- 

 and-a-half times, or more, longer than it is wide at base. Entirely 

 black, clothed with a sericeous pile ; wings subhyaline, not iridescent, 

 nervures testaceous ; marginal cell obliquely subtruncate ; face and 

 clypeus without silvery pubescence; apical half of tarsi reddish. 

 Length 12-13 mm. 



$ . — Anterior margin of clypeus not emarginate, nor dentate; 

 sides of tront and face depressed ; space between eyes at top about 

 equal to the length of antennal joints 3 and 4 united ; first joint of 

 flagellum not much shorter than the second; wings iridescent; head 

 in front with rather dense silvery pubescence. Length 11-12 

 mm. 



New Jersey, in September; Florida (3/rs. A. T. Slosson); Illi- 

 nois; Colorado; Montana. The dense sericeous pile, with which this 

 insect is clothed, and the large size, will at once distinguish it from 

 the other species of this genus. 



35. — Tachysphex mundus n. sp. 



9 • — Anterior margin of clypeus not strongly, though distinctly 




532 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



emarginate medially aud armed laterally with two teeth; front with 

 exceedingly fine aud close punctures; vertex with the punctures 

 more distinct; space between the eyes at top about equal to the length 

 of antennal joints 2 and 3; first joint of flagellum about one-quarter 

 shorter than the second; dorsulum somewhat more coarsely punc- 

 tured than the front; scutellum not impressed ; metathorax coria- 

 ceous or else finely granulated, the sides smooth, the posterior face 

 striated; tegs tolerably spinose; longer spur of hind tibiae in length 

 greater than the first joint of the hind tarsi; pygidial area strongly 

 and sparsely punctured, in length but little greater than twice longer 

 than its width at the base. Black; mandibles medially aud scape 

 beneath at apex, reddish ; tarsi, tegulie and the apical margins of 

 segments (more broadly than in the other species) testaceous; ^^dngs 

 pale subhyaline, iridescent, nervures testaceous ; margiual cell nar- 

 rowly truncate; head in front and the thorax with deuse silvery 

 pubescence; abdomen with a dense silvery pile, which appears as 

 four bands when viewed from behind. Length 8—9 mm. 



(?. — Anterior margin of clypeus not emarginate or dentate ; front 

 rather coarsely granulated ; vertex more distinctly punctured than in 

 the 9 ; space between the eyes at top greater than the length of an- 

 tennal joints 2 and 3 united, but scarcely equal to that of joints 3 

 aud 4 ; first joint of flagellum nearly oue-third shorter than the sec- 

 ond ; dorsulum with the punctures separated ; scutellum distinctly 

 impressed; metathorax above strongly granulated, the sides coria- 

 ceous ; colored like the 9 , except that the abdomen is entirely testa- 

 ceous. Length 8 mm. 



Illinois; Texas. This species is as densely pilose as pundifrons, 



but the pile is silvery, the sculpture different and the size much 



smaller. 



36. — Tachysphex minimus Fox. 



Tachytes niuiimus Fox, Tr. Amer. Ent. Soc. XIX, p. 248. $ . 



S. — Anterior margin of the clypeus subtruncate, not dentate 

 laterally ; front with exceedingly fine and close punctures ; space be- 

 tween the eyes at top about equal to the length of antennal joints 2 

 and 3 united ; first joint of flagellum about one-quarter shorter than 

 the second; dorsulum with the punctures even and distinct, much 

 stronger than those of the front; scutellum not impressed ; meta- 

 thorax above granulated, the metapleurte and posterior face finely, 

 though distinctly, striated. Black ; mandibles medially and scape 




189o. ] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 5o3 



beueath at apex, reddish ; apex of femora, and tibia^ aud tarsi en- 

 tirely, reddisli-vellow; front, face, clypeus and thorax with silvery 

 pubescence, that on the front and dorsulum approaching to golden ; 

 abdomen with silvery pile on apical portion of segments; wings sub- 

 hyaline, iridescent, nervures testaceous; marginal cell subtruucate. 

 Length 5 5-7 mm. 



Camden County, New Jersey in July; Georgia; Texas: Illinois. 

 Resembles greatly mio«/».s, but may be at once distinguished by color 

 of legs. 



LYRODA Say. 

 Lyroda Say, Journ. Nat. Hist. I. p. 370. 1836; Kohl, 1. c. p. 266. 



Mandibles distinctly notched on outer margin; antenna elongate ; 

 eyesicitli the inner margin, almost straight, not converging towards the 

 veiiex, nearly parallel ; front and veiiex ivithoid protuberances, not 

 raised along inner eye-margins; ocelli round and distinct, including 

 the posteriors, and are placed in the form of a low triangle ; top of pro- 

 thorax rather angularly produced medially, on each side of the produc- 

 tion roundly emarginate ; (the top of prothorax reaches the level of 

 the dorsulum); anterior wings with a distinctly truncated marginal 

 cell which has an appeudiculation, three submarginal cells, the second 

 of which receives both recurrent nervures, the basal vein joins the 

 externo-medial vein, stigma large ; tihiis and tarsi spinose, but not 

 strongly so 'fComb of fore-tarsi short and feeble; middle tibia one-spurred; 

 pulvilli large ; last dorsal segment of 9 with a large, pygidial area, 

 which is covered with a short pubescence. 



But few species of this genus have been described, two of which 

 are found in Boreal America. They may be tabulated as follows: 



Anterior margin of clypeus of 9 armed with three distinct teeth lat- 

 t rally; wings clear, dusky at tip; form rather slender with .silvery 

 pile on abdomen ; ^ similar to 9 i but smaller, the clypeus with 

 its fore margin strongly bilobate medially, not dentate laterally . 



snbita. 



Anterior margin of clypeus of 9 not at all dentate laterally; wings 

 dark fuscous; form stout, deep l)lack, N\ithout silvery ])ile on ab- 

 domen; ^ unknown triloba. 



1. — Lyroda subita Say. 



L. snhifa Say, .Journ. Nat. Hist. I. p. 372. 



9 . — Anterior margin of clypeus truncate medially, armed later- 

 ally with three distinct teeth ; front and vertex with very fine and 




534 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



close punctures ; first joint of flagellum about one-third longer than 

 the second; distance between hind ocelli somewhat greater than the 

 space between them and the nearest eye-margin ; dorsulum finely 

 and closely punctured ; metathorax above with a central, longitudi- 

 nal raised line, from each side of which, extend in an irregular man- 

 ner coai-se folds or rug^e; posterior face coarsely rugose, the metaplurse 

 finely granulated ; legs not very strongly spiuose. Black, the tegu- 

 Iffi and tarsi somewhat testaceous ; clypeus densely, and thorax more 

 or less, with silvery pubescence; legs and abdomen with a silvery 

 pile, which is most conspicuous on apical margin of segments 1-3 ; 

 wdngs subhyaline, apex fuscous, uervures testaceous. Length 11-13 

 mm. 



$. — Resembles the 9 but is smaller ; anterior margin of clypeus 

 in the middle strongly bilobate, not dentate laterally ; antennae 

 shorter and stouter ; legs feebly spinose ; colored and ornated like 

 the 9 ; dorsulum with the punctures finer. Length 7-9 mm. 



Canada to Florida, westward to INIontana. L. caliptera Say is 

 probably only a variety of this species. 



2. — Lyroda triloba Say. 

 L. triloba Say. 1. c. p. 372. 



9 . — Anterior margin of clypeus subtruncate medially, not den- 

 tate laterally ; front and vertex seemingly impunctate ; first joint of 

 flagellum a little more than one-third longer than the second ; dis- 

 tance between the hind ocelli, if anything, a little less than the space 

 between them and the nearest eye-margin ; dorsulum indistinctly 

 punctured ; metathorax above finely rugoso-granulated, with a lon- 

 gitudinal medial raised line, the metapleurse coarsely striated 

 throughout. Deep black ; tegulse and tarsi somewhat testaceous ; 

 head and thorax, especially the face and clypeus, with brownish 

 pile ; abdomen also sparsely pilose, but the pile is not silveiy or con- 

 spicuous; wings dark fuscous, iridescent. Length 14-15 mm. 



Canada to Texas ; Illinois; Indiana (Say). The large size and 

 dark wings will at once distinguish this species from subita. 



DIPLOPLECTRON Fox. 

 Diploplectron Fox, Tr. Amer. Eut. .Soc. XX, p. 38, 1893. 



Head broader than the thorax ; mandibles bidentate at apex, the 

 outer tooth by far the longest, the outer margin is incurved medially, 

 or very slightly emarginate, in the 9 the mandibles are shorter, broader 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 535 



aud the outer margin seems to be entire; eyes strongly converging 

 towards the vertex, so that the distance between them at that point is 

 about equal to half of that at the mandil)les ; ocelli round, convex, 

 and situated so as to forma rather high triangle; antennoe situated 

 very low down, the middle lobe of clypeus extending up between 

 them, rather long, very slightly thickened medially (the thickening 

 is more obvious in the $ ) and narrowed to apex, alike in both sexes, 

 i. e. those of the S are not formed into a spiral as in Dinetus; protho- 

 rax large aud very prominent, not emarginate above, and the an- 

 terior portion is not cut off so suddenly as in most of the allied gen- 

 era ; when compared with the dorsulum it is fully two-thirds as long; 

 metathorax longer than the dorsulum, tvith no distinct enclosure; anter- 

 ior wings with an extremely short marginal cell, wdiich is broadly 

 truncate at apex, and has a long and distinct appendiculate cell; 

 there are three cubital or submarginal cells, the first ot which is longer 

 than the two others combined, the second submarginal cell is trian- 

 gular; the first and second recurrent nervui-es are received by the 

 first and second submarginal cells respectively, as in Dinetus; an- 

 terior tarsi of 9 with a comb formed of long, slender, widely sepa- 

 rated spines ; the $ has no tarsal coml) ; middle tibice of both sexes 

 with two spurs. Last dorsal segment of 9 with an elongate triangu- 

 lar pygidium. 



Diploplectron brunneipes Cress. 



Lin's (/} brunneipes Cress., Proc. Ent. Sect. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1S81, p. Ill, ^ 9 • 

 Diploplcciro)i briimieipes Fox, 1. c. p. 38. 



9. — Middle lobe of clypeus convex, produced a little anteriorly, 

 the lateral lobes depressed; front and vertex polished, seemingly 

 impunctate; anteume long, setaceous, flagellum with joints 1-4 

 about equal in length; vertex with a fovea on each side of ocelli; 

 dorsulum and scutellum polished, impunctate; scutellum convex, 

 not impressed; upper surface of metathorax granulated, the meta- 

 pleurse coarsely striated; legs tolerably spinose; pygidial area 

 sparsely punctured, not prominent. Black; clypeus medially, man- 

 dibles except apex, antenmc, prothorax and four anterior legs, pale 

 brown, the hind legs and abdomen castaneous ; tegulpe and humeral 

 tubercles, yellowish; wings subhyaline, nervu res testaceous. Length 

 6 mm. 



$ . — Similar to the 9 ; first joint of flagellum a little longer than 

 the second ; clypeus and sides of face bright yellow ; prothorax and 




536 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



femora, except apex, black; legs feebly spinose. Length 5j mm. 

 Colorado; Nevada. Seems to be very rare. 



PLENOCULUS Fox. 

 Plenociilus P'ox, Psyche. Nov. 1S9.3, p. .554. 



Outer margin of mandibles strongly emarginate; in the $ thecli/peus 

 has on each side a fringe of hairs as in Cerceris; eyes within not emar- 

 ginate, distinctly converging towards the vertex; ocelli round and 

 prominent, all three distinct, placed in the form of a triangle ; anten- 

 nae short and stout, originating immediately behind the clypeus, the 

 Jlagellummore or less clavate; head transverse, wider than the thorax; 

 pronotum not reaching the level of the dorsulum; metathorax 

 shorter than the dorsulum ; legs stout, the femora narrower at apex 

 than at the base, tibice and tarsi strongly spinose, anterior tarsi with a 

 tolerably ivell- developed comb; tibial spurs large, the hind tibise with 

 two, the four anteriors with but one; tarsal claws rather long and 

 slender, entire, smaller in the $ ; wings with an elongate marginal 

 cell, which is truncate at apex and with a small though distinct ap- 

 pendiculation, three submarginals of which the fii*st is nearly twice 

 as long as the other two combined, the second petiolate, the third is 

 oblique and slightly narrowed above, first recurrent nervure re- 

 ceived by the first submarginal cell near its apex, the second by the 

 second submarginal cell between its middle and apex, the discoidal 

 and basal nervures meet at a short distance from the apex of the 

 submediau cell, this cell being therefore shorter than the median cell on 

 the externo-medial nervure, stigma small, scarcely distinguishable 

 from the costal nervure; last dorsal segment of 9 with a large and 

 distinct pygidial area. 



Three species of this genus are known at present, all of which 

 occur in the United States. 



Clypeus strongly emarginate mediallj- and dentate laterally; first 

 joint of flagellum, if anything, i^horter than the second. 

 On each side of the clypeal emargiuatiuu there are from three to 

 five small teeth; mandibles, except apex, and hind tibia' and 

 tarsi (usually) more or less, yellowish ; ^ with the clypeus, 



teguhe, tibia^ and tarsi, yellow; abdomen black Davisii. 



On each side of the clypeal emargiuation, though widely sepa- 

 rated from it, are two large and prominent teeth; mandibles red- 

 dish medially; hind tibia? and tarsi not at all yellowish; <? un- 

 known ; abdomen black ijropinquus. 




1893.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 537 



Clypeus distinctly roiinded-out, not emarginate or dentate ; 

 first joint of flagellum distinctly longer than the second ; abdo- 

 men entirely red; ^ unknown CockereUii. 



1. — Plenoculus Davisii Fox. 

 P. Davisii Fox, ibid. p. 554. 



9 • — Anterior margin of clypeus deeply incised, armed with fine 

 small teeth on each side, the outer and inner tooth is usually the 

 largest, the others being sometimes indistinct; first joint of flagellum 

 shorter than the second ; dorsulum and scutellum minutely punctured, 

 the latter strongly convex ; upper surface of metathorax coriaceous 

 or finely granulated, with a longitudinal, medial, impressed line, and 

 at the extreme base with a transverse series of short strife ; the meta- 

 pleurje delicately striated; legs tolerably spinose ; pygidial area 

 strongly and sparsely punctured, triangular. Black; mandibles, 

 except tips, tegulse, tibise and tarsi more or less, yellowish ; abdo- 

 men with the segments broadly testaceous on apical margins, the 

 last segment i*eddish at tip ; front, face, clypeus and thorax densely 

 clothed with silvery pubescence ; abdomen with silvery pile ; wings 

 hyaline, iridescent, nervures testaceous ; distance between the first 

 recurrent nervure and the base of second submarginal cell on the 

 cubital nervure not greater (usually less) than the length of the peti- 

 ole of the second submarginal cell. Length 5-6 mm. 



(?. — Anterior margin of clypeus very strongly rounded-out, or 

 slightly produced medially ; autennre more distinctly clavate than in 

 the 9 , the first two joints of flagellum about equal in length; ventral ab- 

 dominal segments 3-6 with a transverse row of tubercles or swellings; 

 clypeus entirely, scape beneath, tegulse, tubercles, apex of femora, 

 the tibiiie, except inner side of two anterior pair, and the tarsi, bright 

 yellow. Length 42-5 mm. 



Agricultural College, Michigan, in June and July ( G. C. Davis) ; 

 Montana (Morrison). 



2.— Plenoculus propinquus n. sp. 



9 • — Anterior margin of clypeus very strongly incised, armed on 

 each extreme side with two very prominent teeth, the part between 

 these teeth and the medial incision seemingly entire; first joint of 

 flagellum about equal to the second in length, at any rate not 

 longer ; dorsulum and scutellum finely punctured, more distinctly so 

 35 




538 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



than in Davisii; scutellum strongly convex ; upper surface of meta- 

 thorax coriaceous or finely granulated, with a longitudinal, medial, 

 impressed line, and at the extreme base with a transverse series of 

 short stri?e, the metapleurse delicately striated; legs tolerably spinose; 

 pygidial area strongly and sparsely punctured, shorter and broader 

 than in Davisii (its length is about one-quarter greater than its width 

 at the base). Black ; anterior tibiae in front yellowish ; mandibles 

 medially, tegul?e aud tarsi reddish testaceous ; segments of abdomen 

 testaceous on apical margins ; front, face, clypeus and thorax, more 

 or less, clothed with silvery pubescence ; abdomen with a sparse sil- 

 very pile ; wings hyaline, iridescent, nervures testaceous ; distance 

 between the first recurrent nervure aud the base of the second sub- 

 marginal cell on the cubital vein greater than the length of the peti- 

 ole of the second sul^marginal cell. Length 6-7 mm. 



Colorado. Closel}" resembles Davisii but is distinct by the arma- 

 ture of clypeus, shape of pygidium and color of mandibles and legs. 



3. — Plenoculus Cockerellii u. sp. 



9. — Anterior margin of clypeus rounded-out, not emarginate or 

 dentate; first joint of flagellum distinctly longer than the second; dor- 

 sulum and scutellum minutely punctured, the latter strongly convex; 

 metathorax coriaceous, or finely granulated, with a longitudinal, 

 medial, impressed line above, and without tlie series of transverse 

 striae at base, metapleune shining; legs tolerably spinose, the tarsal 

 comb rather strongly developed ; pygidial area strongly and sparsely 

 punctured, short and broad, its lateral margins better developed 

 than in either of the two other species. Black; abdomen entii*ely red; 

 mandibles, except apex, ferruginous; tegulse, inner side of hind tibiae 

 and base of the anterior pair, yellowish; a large spot on the four an- 

 terior femora lieneath near the apex, white; hind tibiae on outer side 

 and the tai'si, reddish-testaceous; wings hyaline, iridescent, nervures 

 testaceous; distance between the first recurrent nervure and the base 

 of the second submarginal cell on the cubital vein less than the length 

 of the petiole of the second submarginal cell; the third transverso- 

 cubital nervure on its lower portion bulges out towards the apex of 

 wing. Length 6 mm. 



Las Cruces, New Mexico (T. D. A. Cockerell). Avery pretty 

 and distinct species, which may easily be recognized by its coloration. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 539 



ASTATUS Latr. 

 Astatus Latr., Precis, des Car. geu. des Ins. p. 114. 1796. 

 Astata Latr., Hist. Nat. geu. et part, des Crust, et Ins., T. Ill, p. 336. 1805. 

 Astatus^fM., Verh. zool.-ljot. Gesell. Wien, XXXIV, p. 431. 1885. 



Head about as broad as the thorax ; mandibles without emargina- 

 tion on outer margin, on their inner side, not far from the apex, with 

 a blunt tooth ; eyes in the 9 but little converging towards the vertex, 

 in the $ they touch each other at that place ; ocelli round and con- 

 vex; antennre originating close to the clypeus, the distance between 

 their bases is about equal to that between them and the eye-margin; 

 prothorax much smaller than the mesothorax, the pronotum drawn 

 down deeply under the level of dorsulum; shoulder tubercles reaching 

 the teg nice; wings with a broadly, truncated marginal cell, the length of 

 which varies in the different species, three submarginal and two dis- 

 coidal cells ; the posterior wings are remarkable by their extraordinarily 

 large and broad basal lobes; legs thickly and strongly armed; the 

 middle tibice are two-spurred and the 9 with a comb on fore tarsi, 

 composed of a few, moderately long thorns; claws entire, the pul villi of 

 medium-size ; the last dorsal segment of both sexes with a pygidium, 

 which in the 9 is triangular and usually truncated at apex in the 

 $ , the latter sex has also in some species a tolerably long fringe of 

 hairs. 



This genus, remarkable through the eyes of the S meeting on the 

 vertex, is tolerably well represented in Boreal America. With the 

 exception of a synoptical table' our species haven ever been treated in 

 a monographic way. Nothing is know'ii of their habits, although it 

 is Iikel)% that they, like the European A. boops, store their nests with 

 Hemipterous larvae. 



FEMALES. 



1 — Marginal cell as long or longer than the first submarginal (if 



shorter it is scarcely noticeable) 2 



Marginal cells always distinctly shorter than the first submar- 

 ginal 7 



2 — Dorsulum strongly and closely punctured throughout 3 



Dorsulum, especially ou posterior portion, sparsely punctured . 6 



3— Entirely black 4 



Abdomen red 5 



4 — Produced portion of anterior margin of clypeus subtruncate ; ver- 

 tex coarsely punctured; first joint of flagellum one-third or 

 naore longer than the second unicolor. 



Canadian Entomologist, p. 232. 1892. 




540 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Produced portion of anterior margin of cly pens strongly bidentate 



vertex with a few, large, scattered punctures; first joint of flag- 



ellum less than one-third longer than the second .... Sayi. 



5 — Pygidial area long, narrow, its length a little more than twice 



greater than its width at base; wing-stigma black or dark-red. 



bicolor. 



Pygidial area of a more triangular form, its length not more than 

 twice greater than its base is broad; wing-stigma yellowish.. . 



pygidialis. 



6 — Metauotum with a well-marked, triangular depression at apex; 

 the length of the marginal cell fully equal to that of the first 

 submargiual; entirely black, the pubescence of thorax white . 



occidentalis. 



Metanotum without a well-marked depression at apex (if at all 

 present it is very indistinct) ; length of marginal cell a little less 

 than that of the first submarginal; abdomen black and red, or 

 entirely black, the pubescence of thorax usually black, though 



sometimes white nubeculus. 



7 — Metanotum with coarse, irregular, radiating striations; antennae 



and legs stout nevadicus 



Metanotum finely sculptured 8 



8 — Metauotum finely granulated; tegulse testaceous 9 



Metanotum very finely striated; tegula? whitish elegans. 



9 — Produced portion of anterior margin of clypeus narrow, elongate, 

 truncate at apex; meso-and metapleurte finely sculptured. . . 



montanus. 



Produced portion of anterior margin of clypeus armed with three 

 large teeth; meso-and metapleuri« very coarsely sculptured . . 

 asper. 



MALES. 



1 — Marginal cell as long or longer than the first submarginal (if 



shorter it is scarcely noticeable) 2 



Marginal always distinctly shorter than the first submarginal . 7 



2— Entirely black 3 



More or less red 5 



3 — Pubescence of thorax black ; fore- wings, except basal third, fus- 

 cous; metanotum strongly reticulated. «»6ec»Z</.s (=^m(jripilosus) 



Pubescence of thorax white 4 



4 — Wings hyaline throughout ; first joint of flagellum fully one- 

 third longer than the second ; metauotum not depressed . . . 



unicolor. 



Fore wings stained fuscous medially ; first joint of flagellum 

 about one-quarter longer than the second ; metanotum more or 



less depressed before apex oecidentalis. 



5 — Pubescence of thorax white ; luetauotum reticulated 6 



Pubescence of thorax black nubeculus. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 541 



6 — Upper surface of naetathorax coarsely reticulated, with a central, 

 longitudinal ridge ; stigma of wings yellow ; abdomen black 



apically bieolor. 



Upper surface of metathorax rather finely reticulated, without a 

 central, longitudinal ridge; stigma of wings testaceous, abdo- 

 men not black apically nevadeiisis. 



7 — More or less red ; teguke whitish ; wings subhyaline 8 



Ceruleous; wings fuliginous cceruleus. 



8 — Metanotum very finely granulated or coriaceous 9 



Metanotum very finely- and transversely" striated bellies. 



9 — Wings subhyaline throughout ; mesopleura? sparsely punctured. 



elegans. 



Wings with apical third dark fuscous ; mesopleurse more or less 

 rugose asper. 



1. — Astatus unicolor Say. 

 Astata unicolor Say, Loug's Exp. St. Peter's River p. 33S 9 . 1823. 

 Aslatiis u)iicolor}s.o\i\, 1. c. p. 449. 



9 . — Produced portion of anterior margin of clypeus subtruncate; 

 front with tolerably strong , close punctures, the vertex with coarse 

 punctures; the punctuation of the region enclosed by the ocelli is 

 much closer than that on front; ocelli placed in pits, especially the 

 anterior one; antennae tolerably long, the first joint of flagellum one- 

 third or more, longer than the second; dorsulum closely and coarsely 

 punctured, medially the punctures are somewhat sparser; scutellum 

 sparsely punctured medially, slightly impressed; metathorax above 

 very coarsely reticulated, the metapleurifi somewhat less strongly so ; 

 tibise and tarsi strongly spinose; Avith exception of second ventral 

 segment the abdomen is scarcely punctured; pygidial area about 

 two-aud-a- quarter times longer than it is broad at the base. Black; 

 tarsi obscurely testaceous; head, thorax, legs and abdomen beneath, 

 clothed with a long, whitish pubescence which is most dense on the 

 head ; wings with the apical third fuscous, the marginal cell broadly 

 truncate. Length 11—12 mm. 



S . — Produced portion of anterior margin of clypeus subtruncate; 

 front strongly convex, strongly impressed medially aiTd mucli more 

 clo.sely punctured than in the 9 ; joints 3-8 of flagellum rounded- out 

 beneath, the first joint more than one-third longer than the second; 

 dorsulum Avith the punctures somewhat closer and finer than in 9 J 

 scutellum but slightly impressed; metapleurae striated, on lower 

 portion punctate; abdomen, vent-rally, finely and on the second and 

 third segments sparsely punctured; last dorsal segment coarsely 




642 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



punctured ; colored similar to the 9 , the pubescence denser. 

 Length 9—12 mm. 



Canada to Texas; Colorado; Illinois. 



2. — Astatus Sayi u. sp. 



9. — Produced portion of anterior margin of clypeus strongly tri- 

 dentate; front with tolerably strong, close punctures, the vertex with 

 very sparse, strong punctures; ocelli placed in pits, especially the 

 anterior one; antenme tolerably long, the first joint of flagellum less 

 than one-third longer than the second; dorsulum with toleraljly 

 strong and not very close punctures; scutellum sparsely punctured, 

 very slightly impressed medially; metathorax above coarsely reti- 

 culated, the reticulum closer than in unicolor; the meta- 

 plurse rugose; at the base of posterior face of metathorax, in 

 the middle, is a triangular enclosed space, the lo^yer half of which is 

 smooth; tibi?e and tarsi strongly spinose; abdomen very sparsely 

 punctured, including the second ventral segment; pygidial area less 

 than twice longer than it is broad at the base. Black ; mandibles 

 medially, teguloe and the tarsi obscurely, testaceous; head, thorax 

 and legs tolerably clothed with pale pubescence; with exception of 

 the first segment, the abdomen is nude; wings with the apical third 

 fuscous, the marginal cell obliquely truncate. Length 14 mm. 



Virginia. Resembles closely unicolor, but is easily distinguished 

 by dentate clypeus, larger size, etc. 



3. — Astatus occidentalis Cress. 

 Astaia occidentalis Cr., KoW, Proc. Ent. Sect. Acad. Nat. Sciences, Phila., 



1881, p. III. $ . 

 Astatus occidentalis Kohl, 1. c. p. 448. 



9 . — Produced portion of anterior margin of clypeus sinuous, 

 slightly lobate medially; front with tolerably strong and close 

 punctures, which are, however, not so close as in the preceding species ; 

 vertex with sparse, strong punctures; ocelli placed in pits, especially 

 the anterior one ; first joint of flagellum about one-quarter longer 

 than the second ; dorsulum anteriorly closely punctured, the re- 

 mainder polished, almost impunctate; scutellum sculptured above 

 like the posterior part of dorsulum, with an impressed line on apical 

 half; metathorax above coarsely reticulated and with a triangular 

 depression at the apex in the middle ; metapleur?e coarsely striated; 

 posterior face of metathorax with a pyriform depression, situated be- 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 543^ 



tweeu base and middle ; tibi;e and tarsi strongly spiuose ; abdomen 

 very sparsely punctured, dorsal segments 2-5 with a transverse, 

 sinuous row of punctures between middle and apex ; pygidial area 

 less than twice longer than it is broad at base. Black ; mandibles 

 medially, teguheand tarsi obscurely, reddish-testaceous; head, thorax 

 above and first segment of abdomen with pale pubescence, that on 

 legs and thorax beneath, black; wings fuscous, paler basally; mar- 

 ginal cell obliquely subtruncate. Length 11-14 mm. 



$ .- — Produced portion of anterior margin of clypeus widely and 

 angularly emarginate; front strongly convex and deeply impressed 

 medially; joints 5-8 of flagellum a little rounded-out beneath, the 

 first joint rather strongly bent or curved and about one-quarter 

 longer than the second; dorsulum finely punctured, very closely so an- 

 teriorly ; scutellum sculptured like postertor portion of dorsulum, im- 

 pressed medially; metathorax above rather finely rugoso-granulated, 

 the metapleurre and posterior face coarsely and closely punctured; 

 abdomen beneath rather closely punctured; apical margins of wings 

 broadly hyaline. Length 11-13 mm. 



Nevada; Montana; Washington. 



4. — Astatus nubeculus Cress. 

 Astata nubecula Cr., Proc. Eut. Soc. Phila. IV, p. 466. $ . 

 Astata iiio^ropilosa Cr.. Proc. Ent. Section, Acad. Nat. Sciences, Phila., 1881, 



p. IV, 9 {=var.). 

 Astatjis nubeculus Kohl, 1. c. p. 448. 



9 . — Produced portion of anterior margin of clypeus subtruncate; 

 front with tolerably strong and separated punctures; vertex with 

 sparse, strong punctures; first joint of flagellum about one-quarter, 

 or more, longer than the second; dorsulum anteriorly closely punc- 

 tured, on the remainder polished, almost impunctate; scutellum 

 similar to the posterior portion of dorsulum, impressed medially; 

 metathorax above coarsely reticulated, the metapleurte, except lower 

 basal portion rugose; tibite and tarsi strongly spinose; abdomen 

 scarcely punctured ; pygidial area about twice as long as it is broad 

 at base. Black; mandibles medially, tegulie and tarsi, reddish- 

 testaceous; abdominal segments; 1, 2 and 3 red; head, thorax and 

 legs clothed with black pubescence; apical third of wings fuscous; 

 marginal cell broadly truncate. Length 9 mm. 



<?. — Produced portion of anterior margin of clypeus as in the 9 ; 

 first joint of flagellum nearly one- third longer than the second; dor- 

 sulum finely and evenly punctured throughout, the scutellum 




544 PR()CEEDINC4S OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



sparsely so medially; metathorax above more finely reticulated than 

 in the 9 ; colored like the 9 ; abdomen rather densely clothed, es- 

 pecially ventrally, with dark pubescence; wings hyaline, fuscous 

 medially. Length 9-10. 



Var. A. 9 ^ .—Entirely black. Length 9-13. 



Var. B. 9 $. — Entirely black; pubescence white; mandibles of 

 S yellow medially. 



Colorado (typical form); Montana; Nevada; Calif.; Washing- 

 ton (var. A. =n;(//-o;>t7osa Cr. ); Montana (var. B. ). Algonquin, 

 Illinois (var. B.) taken by Dr. W. A. Nason. 



5. — Astatus bicolor Say. 

 Astata bicolor Say, Long's Exp. St. Peter's Eiver, p. 78. 1823. 

 Astata rufiventris Cr., Tr. Am. Ent. Soc. IV, p. 218 f . 

 Astata tenninaia Cr.,ibid, p. 218, $ . 

 Astatus bicolor Kohl. 1. c. p. 447. 



9 . — Produced portion of anterior margin of clypeus truncate; 

 front with tolerably strong and close punctures; the vertex with the 

 punctures stronger and sparser than those of the front; first joint of 

 flagellum about or nearly one-third longer than the second; dorsnlum 

 strongly punctured, the punctures on posterior portion but little 

 sparser than those of the anterior; scutellum sparsely punctured, im- 

 pressed medially; metathorax above coarsely reticulated, the meta- 

 pleurse, except lower basal portion, rugose ; tibise and tarsi strongly 

 spinose; Anth exception of second ventral segment, the abdomen is 

 impunctate; pygidial area more than twice as long as it is broad at 

 the base. Black; abdomen entirely bright red; mandibles medially 

 and tarsi reddish- testaceous; head, thorax, leg-s and abdomen be- 

 neath with long, pale puljesceuce; apical third of wings fuscous; 

 marginal cell subtruncate, stigma black or testaceous. Length 11- 

 13 mm. 



Z. — Produced portion of anterior margin of clypeus truncate; 

 first joint of flagellum about one- third longer than thesecond; dorsu- 

 lum finely and evenly punctured throughout, the punctures finer 

 than in uubeculm; sculpture of metathorax above much finer than 

 in the 9 ; pubescence colored like the 9 ; last two or three abdom- 

 inal segments black; wings subhyaline, stigma yellowish; tarsi red- 

 dish. Length 7-9 mm. 



Canada and the entire United States. The larger females are the 

 A. rufiventris Cresson, while A. tenninata Cresson, is but a slight 

 variation of the male. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCFS OF PHILADELPHIA. 545 



6. — Astatus pygidialis Fox. 



As/ahis pj'ofdia/is Fox. Can. Ent. p. 234. 9. 1892. 



9 . — Produced portion of anterior maro-in ofclypeus sulitruncate; 

 front with tolerably sti'ong punctures which become sparse medially 

 and laterally; vertex with strong, sparse punctures; first joint of 

 flagellum about one- quarter longer than the second; dorsulura punc- 

 tured about like the front, perhaps a little more finely so; scutellum 

 sparsely punctured, not impressed ; upper surface of metathorax 

 coarsely reticulated, with a prominent, longitudinal, medial ridge, 

 at the apex is a strong depression, the metapleurseand posterior face 

 rugose ; tibi?e and tarsi strongly spinose; abdomen scarcel}^ punctured; 

 pygidial area about twice as long as it is broad at the base. Black ; 

 abdomen entirely red ; mandibles in middle ferruginous; teguke and 

 legs testaceous; head, thorax and legs with white pubescence ; ^nngs 

 subhyaline, the apical mai-gins broadly fuscous; marginal cell ob- 

 liquely truncate ; stigma yellow. Length 8-10 mm. 

 New Jersey; Texas. 



7. — Astatus nevadicus Cress. 

 Aslata nevadica Cr.. Proc. Ent. Sect. Acad. Nat. Sciences Phila. 1881. p. V. 9 • 

 Astatus nevadicus Kohl, 1. c. p. 448. 



9 . — Produced portion of anterior margin of clypeus subtruncate; 

 front with deep and sparse punctures, which become closer towards 

 the clypeus; vertex with tolerably large sparse punctures; antennae 

 short and stout, the first joint of flagellum scarcely one-quarter longer 

 than the second; dorsulum very sparsely punctured, polished; scut- 

 ellum likewise and not impressed ; upper surface of metathorax with 

 the reiieulum tolerably coarse, but finer than in pygidialis or bicolor, 

 depressed at the apex in the middle, and without a central, longi- 

 tudinal ridge, metapleura? coarsely striated; legs stout; tibite and 

 tarsi strongly spinose; abdomen almo.st impuuctate; pygidial area 

 possibly a little more than t\nce longer than it is broad at l)ase. 

 Black; abdomen entirely red; mandibles medially, tegul?e and tarsi 

 reddish testaceous; face, clypeus and dorsulum anteriorly with 

 black pubescence; cheeks, occiput, thorax and legs with white pu- 

 bescence; wings subfuscous, the apical third fuscous; marginal cell 

 obtusely truncate. Length 8-9 mm. 



(? . — Produced portion of anterior margin ofclypeus as in the 9 ; 

 first joint of flagellum about one-third longer than the second; dor- 

 sulum anteriorly, finely and evenly punctured, sparsely so })oster- 




546 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



iorly; scutellum sparsely punctured, uot impressed; upper surface 

 of metathorax rather finely reticulated, more so than in the 9 ', 

 colored like the 9 ; no black pubescence on dorsulum anteriorly nor 

 on the face and clypeus; wings subhyaline throughout; marginal 

 cell obliquely truncate. Length 7 2-8 mm. 



Nevada; New Mexico; Washington; Montana. The specimen 

 from the last mentioned locality differs in having the front more 

 closely and finely punctured. 



8. — Astatus montanus Cress. 

 As/a/a montana Cr., Proc. Ent. Sect. Acad. Xat. Sciences.lSSl, p. V, 9 • 

 Astatus montatius Kohl., 1. c. p. 448. 



9 . — Median lamina of anterior margin of clypeus long and nar- 

 row, truncate at apex ; front with a few, large, scattered punctures; 

 vertex with large, sparse punctures; first joint of flagellum about 

 one-quarter longer than the second ; dorsulum with large, scattered 

 punctures; scutellum above impunctate, not impressed; mesopleurse 

 sparsely punctured; metathorax above finely granulated or indis- 

 tinctly reticulated, the metapleur^e striated; legs tolerably spinose; 

 abdomen almost impunctate; pygidial area about twice as long as it 

 is broad at base. Black; abdomen entirely red; mandibles medi- 

 ally, tegulse and legs testaceous ; head, thorax and legs very sparsely 

 clothed with black pubescence; wings subfuscons, marginal cell ob- 

 tusely truncate. Length 5^-75 mm. 



Nevada; Colorado. 



9. — Astatus asper n. sp. 



9 . — ^ledian lamina of anterior margin of clypeus strongly tri- 

 dentate; front with tolerably large and sparse punctures, which be- 

 come closer towards the clypeus ; vertex with a few scattered punc- 

 tures; first joint of flagellum more than one-quarter longer than the 

 second; dorsulum, except anterior portion, almost impunctate ; scut- 

 ellum distinctly impressed ; metathorax above finely granulated, the 

 meso-and metapleurte coarsely rugose; tibiae and tarsi tolerably spi- 

 nose; abdomen almost impunctate; pygidial area more than twice 

 longer than it is broad at base. Black; abdomen red; mandibles 

 medially, teguhe and tarsi, testaceous ; cheeks and thorax with a 

 very sparse, white pubescence, that on the femora dark; apical half 

 of wings fuscous, the marginal cell truncate. Length 7 mm. 



$ . — Median lobe of clypeus produced into a sharp tooth or spur ; 

 first joint of flagellum about one-quarter longer than the second:. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 547 



metathorax above finely trraniilated, the metapleune ru<>ose; trans- 

 verse mark before ocelli and tegulse, white; apical third of wings 

 dark fuscous. Length 9 mm. 



Montana. The most satisfactory way to separate the males of this 

 species from the male variety of e/egans, is by the color of apical 

 third of wings and color of humeral tubercles. This species may be 

 but a variety of ^.4. Kohli Cam. from Mexico. 



10. — Astatus elegans Cress. 



Astata eU'ffans Cr., Proc. Ent. Sect. Acad. Nat. Sciences.Phila. 1881, p. VI, $ . 

 Astaiiis e/eg-ans Kohl., 1. c. p. 448. 



9 . — Median lobe of clypeus tridentate; front with strong, sparse, 

 irregular punctures; vertex with strong, sparse punctures, which are 

 deeper than those of the front; first joint of flagellura more than one- 

 quarter longer than the second ; dorsulum with large, scattered punc- 

 tures ;dorsulum with scattered punctures, distinctly impressed; metatho- 

 rax above rather strongly impressed down the middle, finely and ir- 

 regularly striated, the metapleurie more strongly striated; meso- 

 pleune sparsely punctured; tibite and tarsi rather strongly spinose; 

 abdomen almost impunctate; pygidial area more than twice longer 

 than it is broad at base (it is broad basally, then contracting before 

 middle and continuing narrowly to the apex). Black; abdomen 

 entirely red; mandibles medially and legs testaceous; tegulse, 

 shoulder tubercles and spot at top of mesopleurie, white; head tho- 

 rax and legs very sparsely clothed with pale pubescence; wings sub- 

 hyaline, marginal cell ti'uncate; stigma yellow. Length 8^-9 mm. 



$ . — Median lobe of clypeus produced into a sharp tooth or spur; 

 first joint of flagellum not one-quarter longer than the second ; dor- 

 sulum anteriorly rather finely and closely punctured, on the poster- 

 ior part sparsely so; scutellum impressed; metathorax above evi- 

 dently granulated, depressed before apex, the metapleurte rugose; in 

 addition to the white markings of the 9 , there is a large transverse 

 mark before the ocelli, base of wings, a spot at base of anterior and 

 middle til)ite, and a band near the apex of the first dorsal segment, 

 which is sometimes interrupted ; medially, white ; wings subhya- 

 line, not darker apically. Length 7-9 mm. 



Var. (?. — No white mai'kings on first abdominal segment. 



Washington; Vancouver; Nevada; Colorado. The variety men- 

 tioned above may prove to be the male of nevadicus. 




548 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



11. — Astatus bellus Cress. 



Astala hella (Jr., ibid, p. VI. g . 

 Astatus bellus Kohl., 1. c. p. 447. 



$. — Median loVie of clypeus obtuse, or truncate at tip; front 

 rugose; first joint of flagell urn about one-quarter longer than the 

 .second ; dorsulum finely and closely punctured, particularly an- 

 teriorly ; scutellum slightly impreased ; metathorax above very finely 

 and transversely striated, the metapleune coarsely so, the posterior 

 face deeply punctured. Black ; abdomen, tibiic and tarsi, red ; 

 femora testaceous ; two transverse, small spots before ocelli, man- 

 dibles medially, teguke, bjise of wings, spot before teguUe and 

 another at base of fore tibise, white ; head and thorax with pale 

 pubescence ; wings hyaline, with a pale fuscous spot, which includes 

 the marginal, second and third submarginal cells ; marginal cell 

 truncate. Length 7 mm. 



!San Diego, California. 



2. — Astatus caemleus Cress. 

 Aslata caeriiltia Cr.. ibid, p. IV. $ . 

 Astatus caeruleus Kohl., 1. c p. 447. 



$ . — Median lobe of clypeus produced into a short tooth or spur; 

 front closely punctured throughout ; first joint of flagellum not one- 

 quarter longer than the second ; dorsulum closely punctured an- 

 teriorly, posteriorly the punctures become sparse and stronger ; 

 scutellum impressed ; metathorax above rather coarsely granulated, 

 the meso-and metapleune rugose. Entirely ceruleous ; antenna 

 and greater part of legs black ; head and thorax with sparse, black 

 pubescence ; tegulie testaceous ; wings dark fuscous ; marginal cell 

 truncate ; abdomen ventrally strongly punctured. Length 8 mm. 



Nevada. 



DIENOPLUS gen, nov. 



Similar in form to Astatiis; head about as broad as the thorax; 

 inner eye-margins almost parallel in both sexes; eyes beneath reach- 

 ing to the base of the mandibles, whix-h are not emarghiate on outer 

 margin; clypeus large, especially in the S , and transverse; the lab- 

 rum is large and prominent, bat not projecting; antennte situated 

 close to the clypeus, and are separated from each other by a distance 

 much less than that between them and the nearest eye-margin, in the 

 9 short and thick, in the S slender and half again as long; ocelli 

 all distinct and prominent, forming a cur\'e; prothorax above not 




l"^'''!] NA'I'I'U.VI, SriKNCKS OK I'l III, AHKl ,n I I A . •>4n 



rcacliini,' tlic Icvol of (lor8uluiii ; shouhU'r tuhorclos se|mratod tlis- 

 liiiclly iVom the t(it;iil;i'; antorior winus with an cloiKHttr-litncroiKtc 

 i>iiir(/i)i(i/ fill, ii'liich IniH no n/i/n ndlcii/tifioiK and throe lartje 5*iih- 

 inari;iiiMl cells, llu> serond of wliicli is uarrowod nioro than one-half 

 to the lo|) and receives holh recnrrent nervures; the third suhniar- 

 ijinal cell is nearly as large as the third discoidal and scarcely nar- 

 rowed at the t()|);stignuv tolerahly distinct, more so in the S : ciihital 

 vein oi' hind-win^- ()riij:inates heyond the apex of the snhniedian cell; 

 legs tolerahly stout, the tihi.c and tarsi of V distinctly spinose, in the 

 S scarcely so; midtl/c iih'nt of both scvck irHli iiro ■■^piti\'<; anterior 

 tarsi oi 9 have a well-developed tarsni-conih, which is entirely ab- 

 sent in the i( ; Ihr li'nnl fmioru di'r hroadrsf hdircrii thrir Ixisc iiml 

 mi(ldlv\ claws not toothed; inrtathorax ahoir ivith k lunjr, diMincf 

 triani/i(/<ir ciir/oKurc ; last dorsal segment of 9 , with a distinct pygi- 

 dial area, the S "/^'o n'Hh a pi/ijidiid area, irhich /n tniicli As.-* dr- 

 vrloprd. 



Diriiop/its seems to conni'ct nolhiiiio.'<fitlntx more closely to llu' 

 LanW'H, heing interniedinte hetwccu Adatux and that genns, a livct 

 which lends to more closely unite the />(//•;/(/('• with the xV'/N.sooa^r. 

 Diniop/ici is, however, not closely related to either Adidiiit or 



IlollllJIIOKlrtllllK. 



Dicnoplua piot.if'rniia n. sp 



9. — Anterior margin of clypens slightly hnt hroadly incurved; 

 front fniely and closely punctured, the vertex more sparsely so; he- 

 hind each hind ocelli there is a deep fovea; fii-st joint of tlagellum 

 longer than the sec(»iid ; dorsulnm with tolerahly strung and sparse 

 piuictures; scutellnm not impressed; upper surface of metathorax 

 with a large, triangular enclosure, and at the base with short, 

 radiating striations, metapleur;e and posterior face finely striated; 

 abdoujcn finely and rather sparsely punctureil; pygidial area with 

 large, sparse punctures. Hlack; abdomen, except a blotch on dor- 

 sal sc^trments 4 and .">, rc'd; mandibles medially and anterior tarsi, 

 reddish-testaceous; scape beneath, iinier orbits from the clypeus to 

 the middle of front, anterior half of clypeus and the fore tibia' in 

 front, yellow; wings std)hyaline. Length Ih imu. 



$ . — Aniennir as long as head and thorax together, tlu- lirst joint 

 of flagellnm about e(|ual to the secoml, the last joint as long as 

 th(! two |)nc(diiig united; lore inarLiin of sciitelbini with a row of 




550 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



strono- tovete. Black; dorsal segments 1 aud 3 and ventrals 2, 3 

 and 4, red; inner oi'bits below middle of front broadly, face, 

 clypeus entirely, scape in front, four anterior tibite in front, and a 

 spot near the base of the hind tibite, yellow; flagelluni beneath 

 fulvous. Length 6 mm. 

 State of Washington. 



BOTHYNOSTETHUS Kohl. 



Bothvnostethns Kohl, Verh. zool.-bot. Gesell. Wien, p. 344, Taf. XVIII, 



f. 5 et 6. 1SS3. 



Body Stout; head as broad as the thorax; e?/es diverging towards 

 the vertex; the eyes at the bottom touch the base of the mandibles, on 

 the outer margin of which there is no emargination; clypeus toler- 

 ably stout; antennae placed close behind the clypeus, the distance 

 between them being twice as great as that between them and the 

 nearest eye- margin, aud are short aud stout; ocelli regularly round, 

 convex, placed in a low triangle ; top of pronotum nearly on the 

 same level with the dorsulum, its lateral angles rounded ; shoulder- 

 tubercles not reaching to the tegulre ; wing ueuratiou agreeing very 

 nearly with that of the genus JSfysson; the stigma is much larger, 

 however, aud the basal vein touches a little beyond the apex of the 

 median cell on the discoidal vein, whilst in all the known species of 

 Nysson this veiu touches before the apex of the above mentioned cell; 

 radial cell broad, lanceolate, lai-ge, almost greater than the first sub- 

 marginal cell, without appendiculation ; the second submarginal cell 

 receives both recurrent nervures, is triangular and distinctly petio- 

 lated ; the first submarginal excels by far the combined length of 

 the second and third; the cubital vein of hind wings originates toler- 

 ably far beyond the apex of the median cell; the legs, includ- 

 ing the tarsi are stout ; middle tibice ivith one spur ; the anterior tarsi 

 have a very short comb, which is composed of slender spines ; the 

 remaining tarsi and tibi^^e appear,with exception of the spines at apex 

 of joints, unarmed; the pjosterior femora reach their greatest breadth 

 at the apex, which is very rarely the case in other hymenopterous 

 genera ; claws uot toothed ; last dorsal segment of 9 with a large, 

 triangular pygidium, which is covered with short pubescence; the $ 

 is similar to the 9 , except that the pygidial area is much less de- 

 veloped, is short and obtuse at tip. 



But one Nearctic species of this genus has been described. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 551 



Bothynostethus distinctus Fox. 



B. distinctus Fox, Entom. Xews. II, p. 31. J ^ . 1891. 



9 . — Anterior margin of clypeus bilobate medially and armed 

 laterally with at least two strong teeth ; front finely but not very 

 closely punctured; vertex more sparsely so ; flagellum subclavate, 

 the first joint shorter than the second, which joint is about equal to the 

 third ; dorsulum punctured about like the front ; scutellum impressed; 

 metathorax above with a broad and deep, longitudinal channel, 

 which is connected, or nearly so, with the strong depression at the 

 base of posterior face, a little beyond the base of the upper surface is 

 a strongly foveolate, curved furrow, which extends from side to side, 

 with exception of these furrows the upper surface of metathorax is 

 smooth, or finely punctured, metapleura^ strongly rugose ; abdomen 

 indistinctly punctured ; pygidium large, rounded at tip. Black ; 

 line on prothorax above, tubercles, postscutellum and spot near the 

 base of four posterior tibite, whitish; the whole insect more or less covered 

 with silvery pubescence, which is most dense on head in front ; wings 

 subhyaline, apical margins broadly fuscous ; last ventral segment 

 red. Length 7-8 mm. 



" $ . — More slender than the 9 , the anterior margin of clypeus 

 subtruncate, or slightly sinuate ; the anterior tibite in front, and the 

 tarsi are rufous; pygidium short, obtuse at tip, with appressed pubes- 

 cence, otherwise as in the 9 . Length .30 inch." 



New Jersey (July and August); Montana. With exception of 

 being smaller, I can find no difference worth noting in the jMontana 

 specimens. 




552 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



The following annual reports were read and referred to the Pub- 

 lication Committee: — 



REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY. 



The meetings of the Academy during the past twelve months have 

 been held without intermission. The average attendance has been 

 forty-four, fewer occasions of special interest having occurred than 

 during the preceding year when the attendance averaged sixty-four. 

 Verbal communications of more or less interest and importance were 

 made at almost every meeting, among the speakers being Messrs. 

 Cope, Chapman, Ryder, Wright, Sharpies, Goldsmith, Rand, Mc- 

 Cook, Willcox, Lesley, Wistar, Woolman, Pilsbry, Heilprin, Roth- 

 rock, Holman, Ives, Allen, Pierce, Dixon, Zuill, Holstein, Mac- 

 Farlane, Ball, Sharp, Morris, Brinton, A. P. Brown, Morsell, 

 Thomas, Ford, U. C. Smith, Calvert, Moeller, A. E. Brown and 

 Wiugate. 



Such of these communications as have been reported by their 

 authors have been printed in the Proceedings. 



Since my last report 194 pages of the Proceedings for 1892 and 

 376 for 1893, with eleven plates, have been issued. Seventy-two 

 pages of an elaborately illustrated memoir on the Sand Mounds of 

 Florida by Clarence B. Moore have also been printed as the begin- 

 ning of the tenth volume of the Journal. These sheets will not be 

 distributed until the completion of the number, which will be pub- 

 lished in advance of the last part of the ninth volume in consequence 

 of the character of the communications in the hands of the Publica- 

 tion Committee. 



In addition to the matter issued at the direct expense of the 

 Academ}^ the Conchological Section has continued the publication 

 of the " Manual of Conchology " of which 580 pages and 91 plates 

 have appeared since my last report. Numbers of the Entomological 

 News and of the Transactions of the American Entomological Society 

 embracing 731 pages and 91 plates have appeared under the auspices 

 of the Entomological Section, thus making a total of 1,881 pages and 

 193 plates, exclusive of the portions of the quarto Journal printed 

 but not yet distributed. The statistics of distribution remain the 

 same as last year. 



A new edition of the By-Laws and a new list of members and 

 correspondents have also been published. 




1893.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADEI.PHIA. 553 



Forty-nine papers have been presented for publication as follows : 

 Edw. D. Cope 9, Henry C. Chapman M. D. 4, Samuel N. Rhoads 

 3, John A. Ryder 3, E. Goldsmith 3, Thomas Meehan 3, Ida A. 

 Keller 2, J. B. Ellis and B. M. Everhardt 2, V. Sterki 2, Abraham 

 Meyer 2, G. F. Wright 1, Benjamin Sharp M. D. 1, Witmer Stone 

 1, S. G. Dixon M. D. 1, Herman Strecker 1, Ralph S. Tarr 1, Geo. 



A. Rex M. D. 1, W. H. Dall 1, Henry Skinner M. D. 1, Clarence 



B. Moore 1, John Gifford 1, Philip P. Calvert 1, A. E. Brown 1, 

 J. Percy Moore 1, William J. Fox 1 and H. A Pilsbry 1. Of 

 these 38 have been accepted for publication in the Proceedings, 5 

 for publication in the Journal, three have been withdrawn by the 

 authors and 3 remain to be reported on. 



Seventy-six memliers and seventeen correspondents have been 

 elected. The deaths of sixteen members and six correspondents 

 have been announced. Three members have resigned, thus leaving 

 a gain of fifty-seven in the membership. 



The death of Mr. Isaac C. "Martindale, who was elected Treasurer 

 at the last annual meeting, occurred January 3d. Mr. Charles P. 

 Perot was elected to fill the oflice the 17th of the same month. The 

 vacancies thus caused in the Finance Committee and the Council 

 (Mr. Perot becoming, as Treasurer, a Councillor ex-officio) were 

 filled by the election of Dr. Geo. H. Horn to the former, January 

 24, and Mr. Thomas A. Robinson to the latter, January 31. 



Mr. Jacob Binder, who had served the society as Curator of the 

 William S. Vaux collections since their reception by the Academy, died 

 after a lingering illness February 26th. He was succeeded as Vaux 

 Curator by Mr. Wm. W. Jefferis who has since discharged the 

 duties of the oftice with a devotion to its interests which is sufiicieutly 

 indicated by the statistics of his annual report. 



The most important amendments to the By-Laws made during the 

 year were for the purpose of lessening the arduous duties of the 

 treasurer by placing the investments of the Academy in the charge 

 of a Trust Company. The consequent changes are as follows : 



Chapter III, Art. 5. The words "he shall collect and pay 

 moneys" were stricken out and the words "he shall collect the mem- 

 ber's dues and shall pay bills and other approved demands by draft 

 upon the depository " were substituted. To the end of the article 

 was added ' ' The Committee on Finance may, with the approval of 

 the Council, vest the custody of the securities belongintr to the 

 36 




554 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



general or any special fund in a Trust Company to keep the same 

 invested and reinvested subject to the approval of the Finance Com- 

 mittee and in the name of the Academy and to collect the revenues 

 therefrom and deposit the same upon interest till expended. Such 

 arrangement shall be made by a written article revocable at pleasuie 

 of the Finance Committee or of the Council." 



Chapter VI, Art. 1. The word " lawful " was stricken out and 

 the words "approved by the Finance Committee" were added after 

 "securities." A like amendment was made to Chapter VII, Art. 1. 



Chapter IX, Art. 2. For the words a "semi-annual " the words 

 " an annual " was substituted and for " five " the word ' ' ten " was 

 substituted, the words ' ' and July " being stricken out. 



Chapter II, Art. 4. The word "annual" was substituted fur "semi- 

 annual" and a like amendment was made in Chapter IX, Art. 6. 



On favorable recommendation of the Council an offer from Mr. 

 Maxwell Sommerville of $2,000 for the Academy's interest in the 

 American reprint of the Encyclopedia Britannica bequeathed to the 

 Academy by the late Mrs. Sommerville, was accepted. 



The Academy is indebted to Mrs. Clara Jessup Moore for the 

 sum of $5,000, the interest derived from which is to be used for the 

 assistance of young women desiring to devote themselves to the study 

 of natural history under the same rules and regulations as those 

 governing the Jessup Fund. 



A contribution by the Curators of a number of crania of American 

 aborigines to the ethnological exhibit forming portion of the Colum- 

 bian Exposition held at Madrid in commemoration of the discovery 

 of America received the recognition of a bronze medal. 



With a view to securing a lowering of the rate of postage on 

 specimens of natural history sent through the mails a committee ap- 

 pointed for the purpose prepared and distributed a circular to a 

 number of foreign societies and journals soliciting sucli influence 

 with their governments as may help to secure the object desired. 



Until last summer the accumulated correspondence of the Academy 

 from its foundation, together with a large number of documents and 

 reports relating to the operations of its several departments, were 

 securely placed, but with no systematic arrangement. Having, 

 through the continued kindness of certain friends of the Academy, 

 been again enabled to secure the services of Signor E. Fronani on 

 certain days during a portion of the year, I have availed myself of the 




1893.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 555 



opportunity to have this large accumulation of material of such in- 

 terest in connection with the history of the society classified and 

 arranged by him. Although the work has not been entirely com- 

 pleted, the material is now in such order as to be available for con- 

 sultation and reference. The resulting good has already been more 

 than once manifested. 



The Hayden Memorial medal and the balance of the interest aris- 

 ing from the end(j\vmeut fund were this year voted to Professor 

 Thomas Henry Huxley, LL. D., F. R. S. to whom they have been 

 forwarded with an expression of the Academy's hearty endorsement 

 of the action of its awarding Committee. This is the fourth award 

 of the Hayden memorial, the first being to Prof. James Hall of 

 Albany in 1890, the second to Prof Edw. D. Cope of Philadelphia, 

 1891, and the third to Prof Eduard Suess of Vienna in 1892. 



The Delaware Valley Ornithological Club and the Geographical 

 Club have held their meetings throughout the year in the Academy. 



These facts and figures it is believed prove without comment that 

 the Academic year just closed has been prosperous if uneventful. 



Edw. J. Nolan, 



Recording Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 



The Corresponding Secretary respectfully reports that during the 

 year commencing December 1st, 1892, he has received from ninety- 

 two societies, museums, etc. , one hundred and fifty-four notices of 

 the receipt of the publications of the Academy, and from thirty- nine 

 societies and editors, forty-eight notices of the forwarding of their own 

 publications to the Academy together with fifteen applications to ex- 

 change publications for reports and asking for missing numbers of the 

 Academy's publications. Twenty letters on various subjects have 

 been received and thirteen written. Fifteen circulars and invitations 

 to the Academy to participate in congresses, meetings etc. , have been 

 received and answered. Two notices of deaths have been also re- 

 ceived. 



During the year seventeen correspondents have been elected and 

 notices to that effect have been sent. The deaths of nine correspond- 

 ents have been reported. Forty-seven certificates have been sent 

 to members and twelve to correspondents. 




556 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1893. 



Seven hundred and eighty-two acknowledgements for gifts to the 

 library and 202 for gifts to the museum have been forwarded. 

 Respectfully submitted, 



Bexj. Sharp, 

 Corresponduig Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN. 



During the past year 4,657 additions have been made to the 

 library. They consisted of 4, 128 pamphlets and parts of periodicals, 

 511 volumes, 12 maps and 6 photographs. 



They were derived from the following sources : — 



Societies, 2,110 



I. V. Williamson Fund, . . 1,042 



Editors, 870 



Authors, 170 



Wilson Fund, 134 



U. S. Dept. of the Interior, 59 



Charles P. Perot, 30 



U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, 29 

 U. S. Department of State, . 27 

 Pennsylvania State Library, 15 

 Geological Survey of Russia, 11 



Augelo Heilpriu, 10 



Tennessee Board of Health, 10 



University of Kiel, 10 



H. A. Pilsbry, 9 



Minister of Public Works in 



France, 8 



U. S. War Department, . . 7 



British Museuiu, 7 



Conchological Section, ... 7 



Thomas Meehau 6 



U. S. Treasury Department, 5 

 East Indian Government, . 5 

 Department of Mines, New 



South Wales, 4 



Joseph Willcox, 4 



Illinois State Board of Agri- 

 culture, 4 



W. D. Brigham, 4 



T. H. d'Estrella, 4 



Geological Survey of India, 4 

 Geological Surv. of Missouri, 3 



Geological Survey of Penn- 

 sylvania, 



George B. England, .... 



Manchester Museum, . . . 



Geological Survey of Arkan- 

 sas, 



Geological Survey of Portu- 

 gal, 



Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., . . 



Trustees of the East Indian 

 iluseum, 



Iowa State Library, .... 



William R. Leeds, 



Geological Survey of Iowa, 



Hoboken Ferry Co., .... 



Charles Earl, 



Geological Surv. of Alabama 



Charles E. Smith, 



Upsal Observatory, 



British Commission, World's 

 Fair, ... 



Geological Surv. of Australia 



E. Reuevier, 



Benjamin Sharp, M. D., . . 



Hungarian Nat. Museum, . 



Mrs. Geo. W. Carpenter, . . 



William Sellers & Co., . . . 



Charles W. Johnson, .... 



Department of Mines, Xova 

 Scotia, 



Bryant Walker, 



J. E. Ives, 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 557 



Geological Survey of Miune- Geological Survey of ludi- 



sota, 3 ana, 1 



Mrs. Ella P. Vidal, .3 James E. Richardson, . . 1 



Geological Survey of Canada 3 Mrs. Amelia P. Bergh, ... 1 



Bentham Trustees, Kew Imperial Observatory of Rio 



Garden, 3 Janeiro, ' 1 



They were distributed to the several sections of the library as 

 follows : — 



Journals, 3,749 Medicine, 19 



Botany, 163 Chemistry, 15 



Geology, 133 Ornithology, 14 



General Natural History, . . 91 Encyclopedias, 13 



Anatomj' and Physiology . 54 Herpetology, 11 



Entomology, .50 Bibliography, 9 



Anthropology, 37 Helminthology, 7 



Conchology, 31 Ichthyology, 5 



Mineralogy, 28 Geography, 5 



Voyages and Travels .... "27 Miscellaneous government 



Physical Science, 22 reports and other publica- 



Agriculture, 21 tions not classified .... 133 



Mammalogy, 20 



In consequence of an unusually liberal appropriation for binding 

 I have been enabled to place the library in a much better condition 

 than it has been for the last twenty years. Six hundred and ninety- 

 one volumes, embracing all those in the special departments of the 

 library fit for and needing binding, together with some of the Amer- 

 ican journals, have been placed in pi-oper couditiou on the shelves. 

 The work has not, however, included all the unbound books in the 

 portions of the library alluded to, complete volumes in paper covers, 

 especially if seldom consulted, having been allowed to remain as 

 they are, in the hope that future appropriations may provide for them. 

 More than twice as many volumes in the other sections of the de- 

 partment of journals and periodicals remain unbound. It is hoped, 

 therefore, that a like liberal provision may be made for the continu- 

 ation and completion of the work during the coming year. 



While the library is more fortunate than any other department 

 of the Academy in having the income of the I. V. Williamson and 

 the Thomas B. Wilson Funds devoted exclusively to its increase, it 

 will be seen by the report of the treasurer that the amount thus ap- 

 propriated is not sufficient to meet the constantly increasing demands 

 on the Library Committee. While little more than the subscriptions 




558 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



to indispensable journals and the purchase of books absolutely needed 

 by our students has been provided for during the past year, yet with 

 the exercise of the strictest economy the amount derived from the 

 library funds has been overdrawn. It is, therefore, evident that a 

 liberal increase in the pecuniary resources of the library is needed 

 if we are to maintain in the future our merited reputation of having 

 the best collection of scientific works in America. Three times the 

 amount now at our disposal could readily be spent annually without 

 involving the slightest waste or extravagance. 



All the portraits of presidents and benefactors have been carefully 

 examined by a reliable expert since my last report. They have 

 been cleaned, varnished and, when necessary, as was the case in 

 several instances, rebacked with canvas. The appearance of this 

 interesting collection of paintings has thus been much improved. 



We are indebted to Mrs. Ellen M. Carpenter for a good portrait 

 in oil of JNIr. Geo. W. Carpenter by whom the Academy was served 

 most efficiently as Treasurer for thirty-four consecutive years. 



An intei'esting oil portrait of Mr. Augustus E. Jessup, the beneficent 

 founder of the Academy's Jessup Fund, has been received from his 

 daughter Mrs. Bloomfield H. Moore, to whose intelligent liberality 

 the Academy is also deeply indebted. The painting represents Mr. 

 Jessup in early manhood and therefore diifers widely from the one 

 given to the Academy by his children several years ago. The recent 

 gift formerly belonged to Peak's museum and is now hung in the 

 Librarian's room. 



I have received efficient assistance in the current work of the li- 

 brary from Mr. William J. Fox and also, during a portion of the 

 year, from Signor E. Fronani, the greater part ot whose time, how- 

 ever, as will be seen by the report of the Recording Secretary, was 

 devoted to the work of another department. 



All of which is respectfully submitted. 



Edw. J, Nolan, 



Librarian. 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



It has been the endeavor of the Curators throughout the year to pay 

 particular attention to the examination and renovation of the more 

 perishable collections and to the replacement in the museum of such 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 559 



specimens or collections as had been temporarily removed or were 

 stored away so as to be inaccessible to the student. 



As a result most of the collections are now in an excellent state of 

 preservation. 



Lack of space has prevented the proper systematic arrange- 

 ment of the specimens and in many cases has necessitated the crowd- 

 ing of the collections to a degree entirely inconsistent with their 

 proper display. This state of atfairs has continually been an obstacle 

 in the way of the work of the Curators tor many years past, but 

 will now very soon be remedied by the opening of the new museum 

 building which will turnish ample space for the proper display of 

 the various collections. 



During the past year, although no general rearrangement of the 

 collections was possible, a slight change has been made in the posi- 

 tion of some of the cases on the lower floor ot the museum and by this 

 means many of the specimens have been displayed to much better 

 advantage. 



The collection of fossil fishes has been removed from the upright 

 cases and a series of typical specimens displayed in the flat table 

 cases, while the remainder have been arranged in glass- covered 

 drawers immediately beneath, where they are readily accessible for 

 study. 



By this arrangement two large upright cases have been made 

 available for the display of the additions to the mounted collection 

 of mammals. A handsome case presented by the Women's Silk 

 Culture Association has been used for the same purpose. 



A great deal of important work has been accomplished in the or- 

 nithological department during the year. Almost the entire 

 mounted collection of water birds, numbering about 2,000 specimens, 

 has been thoroughly gone over and all desirable specimens re- 

 mounted and renovated, while many of the duplicates and un- 

 sightlv specimens have been unmounted and arranged in drawers 

 with the study series of skins. 



This work has immensely improved the appearance of the col- 

 lection and will ensure the preservation of the s})ecimens for many 

 years to come. 



A moi-e detailed account of the work in this department will be 

 found in the report of the Ornithological Section. 



Mr. McCadden, the taxidermist of the Academy, in addition to 




560 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



his work iu I'emounting the ornithological collection, has prepared 

 and mounted upwards of 50 birds, mammals and osteological speci- 

 mens received during the year, thereby adding greatly to the value 

 of these departments. 



Several hundred jars of reptiles and fishes which had been stored 

 in the cellar have been examined, relabeled and placed in their 

 proper places iu the museum, and a number of osteological speci- 

 mens which had been removed from their cases have been restored 

 to the museum. 



The greater part of the Pennsylvania State Geological Survey col- 

 lection, which has been stored aw^ay in boxes ever since its presenta- 

 tion to the Academy, has been unpacked and placed in drawers in the 

 new cases which were procured for the connecting museum over the 

 lecture hall. For the present these specimens have been arranged 

 according to the State Survey list. 



This work is of great importance as it renders this valuable col- 

 lection, which it has hitherto been impossible to consult, readily 

 accessible to the student. 



Early in the year a series of uuiform catalogues vere procured by 

 the Curators and the attempt made to form a systematic catalogue of 

 all the departments of the museum, something that has hitherto only 

 been attempted in one or two branches. The work entailed in an 

 undertaking of this kind is enormous, and it will be several years at 

 least before it will be possible to bring it to completion. 



Throughout the past year, however, all the accessions except in a 

 few special collections have been systematically numbered and cata- 

 logued so that the preservation of the data relating to them will be 

 ensured even though the labels become misplaced or lost. Apart 

 from cataloguing the accessions, the work in this direction has mainly 

 been that of verifying and copying such old catalogues as were in 

 existence. 



In copying the catalogues of the mammalia it was found necessary 

 to renumber the entire series of osteological specimens in order to 

 bring them into sequence with the mounted specimens and skins. 

 Heretofore they were numbered in different series, which caused 

 much confusion. At the same time all the separate bones of the dis- 

 articulated skeletons were numbered so as to prevent their becoming 

 mixed and their identity lost. The importance of this work can 

 readily be appreciated. 




1893.] NATURAL SCrENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 561 



Besides copying the old catalogue, work has been begun on a cata- 

 logue of the general collection of minerals. Considerable progress 

 has been made with the ornithological catalogue which was begun 

 sev^eral years ago. 



In connection with our present catalogues a new system of labels 

 has been adopted, each bearing the Academy's name and the 

 catalogue number of the specimen. This is of especial importance 

 when specimens are loaned for study as it prevents their loss or con- 

 fusion. 



The collections of birds and mammals have also been carefully ex- 

 amined and the cases provided with insecticides. 



The additions to the various departments of the museum during 

 the year have been especially noteworthy. 



The most extensive collection received was the entire private 

 museum of the late George W. Carpenter, presented by his widow. 

 This included an extensive series of minerals and mounted birds. 

 Among the latter may be mentioned a specimen of the extinct Labra- 

 dor duck. A collection of mollusca and many archaeological and 

 anatomical specimens were included in the gift. 



The collection of Indian remains, pottery and implements from the 

 mounds of Volusia County, Florida, generously presented by Mr. 

 Clarence B. Moore, is of exceptional interest, being largely unique. 

 This collection has been labeled and arranged by Mr. Moore and his 

 assistants in cases in the new room over the lecture hall, which has 

 been open to the public since September 1st. 



Another valuable accession was a fine series of crania of ancient 

 Hawaiiaas presented by Dr. C. Newlin Pierce. 



Manv important additions to the collection of mammals, birds and 

 reptiles have been received from the Zoological Society of Philadelphia 

 serving to render these departments more nearly complete. Foremost 

 among these may be mentioned fine specimens of Burchell's and Chap- 

 man's zebras. The Liberian Connnissioners to the Columbian Exposi- 

 tion have contributed a fine specimen of the rare Liberian hippo- 

 potamus, which has been mounted by the Academy's taxidermist. 

 The Delaware Valley Ornithological Club has continued to add 

 to the collection of local birds and nests which it presented some 

 years ago. 



The liberality of friends of the Academy has enabled the Curators 

 to acquire by purchase several valuable collections. Among these 




562 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893, 



are the Rhoads collection of British Columbian birds, comprising- 

 about 1,000 specimens, an important collection of birds and 

 mammals from southern California made by R. B. Herron, and the 

 Morelet collection of mollusca. 



Through the aid of friends of the Academy, Professor E. D. 

 Cope was also enabled, in company with Dr. A. P. Brown, to carry 

 on explorations in the fossil beds of Dakota and Kansas during the 

 summer. He brought back many valuable specimens which will 

 greatly enrich the department of vertebrate paleontology. These 

 specimens will be placed in the museum as soon as they can be prop- 

 erly mounted. 



As heretofore, the Academy's museum has furnished aid to many 

 students and specialists. Besides those who have consulted the 

 collections, specimens have been loaned dui'ing the year to Dr. C. 

 Hart Merriam, Dr. J. A. Allen, Dr. Harrison Allen, Mr. William 

 Brewster, Dr. L. Stejneger, Mr. G. D. Harris and Professor W. B. 

 Clarke. 



Certain collections which are not arranged in the museum 

 proper have, as in former years, been under the charge of special 

 conservators and to these the Curators desire to express their thanks 

 — to Mr. John H. Redfield, Conservator of the Herliariimi ; Mr. 

 W. W. Jefferies, Curator of the Vaux Collections, and Dr. Henry 

 Skinner, Conservator of the Entomological Section. Reports on the 

 condition of these collections will be found in the special reports from 

 the Sections. 



The thanks of the Curators are also due to Mr. W. W. Jefferies 

 for his valual)le assistance in the labeling and arranging of the 

 Carpenter collection of minerals, to Mr. Clarence B. Moore, for the 

 careful arrangement and labeling of his archaeological collection, 

 and to Messrs. Woolman, Schultz and Boyer for valuable assistance 

 in cataloguing the collections of diatoms. 



Messrs. H. G. Ives, J. E. Richardson and H. Y. Peniiell, stud- 

 ents on the Jessup Fund, have rendered important aid during the 

 year in the departments of mineralogy and ornithology. 



Approved by the Curators at a meeting held Dec. 20th, 1893. 



Samuel, G. Dixon, 



Executive Curator. 




1893.] NATt'KAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 568 



REPORT OF THE BIOLOGICAL AND MICROSCOPICAL 



SECTION. 



This Section during the year 1893, has held nine meetings ex- 

 clusive of those heUl in conjunction with the Academy. 



Four new members have been elected and two contributors have 

 been added to the list. One member and one contributor have 

 resigned. 



Interesting communications have been made by Messrs. Ryder, 

 Rex, Sharp, Anders, Brown and Rothermel. 



The officers for the ensuing year are : — 



Director, . . . . . A. P. Brown. 



Vice Director, ..... John C. Wilson. 

 Recorder, ...'.. M. V. Ball, M. D. 



Treasurer, ..... Chas. P. Perot. 



Corresponding Secretary, . . . John G. Rothermel. 



Conservator, ..... Geo. A. Rex, M. D. 

 Respectfully submitted, 



Harold Wixgate, 



Recorder. 



REPORT OF THE CONSERVATOR OF THE CONCHO- 

 LOGICAL SECTION. 



During the year since the last annual meeting of the Couchologi- 

 cal Section the museum has been increased by many valuable acces- 

 sions. The number of species new to the collection, and of species new 

 to science has been unusually great. The series of mollusks preserved 

 in alcohol has been augmented by a greater number of species than 

 any previous year for probably over a decade. Accessions have been 

 received during the year from 56 persons, a list of whom is included 

 in the additions to the museum. 



The total number of trays added is 1,650. About 800 of these 

 having been acquired by purchase, an equal number by exchange, 

 and the remainder by gift to the Academy or the Section. These 

 do not include a collection of over 1,800 species of tertiary fossils 

 obtained from M. Cossmann of Paris in exchange for volumes 

 of the Manual of Conchology, which, with the addition of a col- 

 lection of fossil Helices receive<l from Dr. Penecke of Gernianv, 




564 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



raises the number to a total of over 3,000 trays received and admin- 

 istered upon by the Conservator during the year. 



Several accessions of special value to our collection may be men- 

 tioned, the collections received from the Peary Relief Expedition, 

 from Dr. J. C. Cox, and that purchased from the Morelet collection 

 being the most important. 



The first of these, for which we are indebted to Prof. Augelo 

 Heilprin, leader of the Peary Reliet Expedition, adds a considerable 

 number of Arctic forms first described by Friele, Sars and others, 

 which could hardly have been obtained from any other source. This 

 collection, together with that made by the West Greenland Expedi- 

 tion of 1891, gives us an excellent representation of the Greenland 

 marine fiauna. 



The portion of the collection of the late Arthur Morelet of Dijon, 

 France, which was obtained by us includes over 250 species of land and 

 fresh- water shells, mainly of Africa, India and South America. As 

 they are all new to the collection, and accompanied by reliable data, 

 the great value of the series will be apparent. The additions to our 

 collection of Helices are especially notable, many rare and long 

 needed species being secured. 



Dr. J. C. Cox of Sydney, N. S. Wales, Austi-alia, has with 

 great liberality made two donations to the Academy. The first, re- 

 ceived through the Treasurer of the Section, contains a collection 

 of dry Chitons from the coasts of New South Wales and South Aus- 

 tralia; the second was transmitted direct to the Conservator, and con- 

 sisted of a larger collection of alcoholic Chitons and many rare gas- 

 teropods. The two sendings give us excellent material for the study 

 of Australian Polyplacophora, and include a number of new species. 



Other gifts, smaller but of scarcely less value, have been received 

 from Professor F. W. Hutton of Christchurch, New Zealand, and 

 Professor Jose N. Rovirosa of Tabasco, Mexico. A considerable 

 number of fine shells, including a good suite from the Grecian Archi- 

 pelago, was received from Mrs. G. W. Carpenter of Philadelphia. 



A large number of the interesting laud shells of New Zealand 

 have been obtained by purchase from Mr. H. Suter of Christchurch, 

 N. Z. A large proportion of them were figured for the first time, in 

 the Manual of Conchology. 



The additions to our suites of North American shells have been 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 565 



considerable, several correspondents of the Conservator having con- 

 tributed. 



The work in the museum during the year has been limited to the 

 proper placing of the new material received, — no small task in view 

 of the crowded condition of our cases. A few small groups have 

 been rearranged, and the terrestrial operculates and American Hel- 

 ices have been placed in shallow trays in drawers. 



The great number of species and types contained in the collection 

 of the Academy imposes a large amount of correspondence upon the 

 Conservator, and no little time is consumed in the comparison of 

 specimens for correspondents. This labor is amply repaid, however, 

 by the large mass of new material which it secures us, and which 

 could be obtained by no other means. 



Respectfully submitted, 



H. A. PiLSBRY, 



Conservator. 



REPORT OF THE ENTOMOLOGICAL SECTION. 



During the year about to close ten meetings of the Section have 

 been held and they were well attended, considering the number of 

 its members and associates. One member has died and two mem- 

 bers and three associates have been elected. Many specimens have 

 been added to the collection in the way of donations from members 

 and others and through "The Entomological News" in exchange for 

 names. The collections are in fairly good condition considering the 

 unsafe cases they are kept in at present and the insufficient amount 

 of I'oom at our disposal. Three hundred and fifty entries of 

 additions to the library have been made in the donation book to date. 

 A lai-ge part of these publications cannot be arranged in the 

 library and are laid away in piles. This is on account of the meagre 

 amount of library space, the library some time ago having outgrown 

 its present quarters. "The Entomological News," a journal pub- 

 lished by the Section and the American Entomological Society 

 devoted to insect life, has appeared regularly and has been emin- 

 ently successful. Volume four has been completed, with three 

 hundred and forty-four pages and fifteen full page plates and 

 numerous cuts. The journal will be continued, the number for 

 January, 1894, being in the hands of the printer. 




566 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1893. 



At the last meeting the following gentlemen were elected to serve 

 as officers for the coming year : — 



Director, .... George H. Horn, M. D. 



Vice-Director, 

 Treasurer, 

 Conservator, 

 Recorder, 



Publicatioit Committee, 



Charles S. Welles. 



Ezra T. Cresson. 



Henry Skinner, M. D. 



Henry Skinner, M. D. 

 f James H. Ridings. 

 ] Charles W. Johnson. 



REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL SECTION. 



The Vice-Director of the Botanical Section respectfully I'eports 

 that the general prosperity noted in other years still continues, 

 though the work of the Conservator is seriously hampered by reason 

 of the crowded condition of the Herbarium shelves. 



Meetings have been regularly held except during the Sununer 

 recess. Discussions on matters of botanical interest have been fre- 

 quent, and two original papers of value to general science on the 

 botany of the Peary Expeditions and researches relative to the 

 jelly glands of Brasenia peltata, have been accepted for publi- 

 cation in the Proceedings of the Academy. 



Donations to the Herbarium have been liberal : reaching the 

 the number of 2,599 species; 2,344 were of flowering plants and ferns, 

 of which 596 were new to our collection. 



The Section is free from debt. The officers elected for the en- 

 suing year are : 



Director, .... 



Vice- Director, 



Conservator, 



Recorder, .... 



Recording Sec y and Treasurer, 

 Respectfully 



W. S. W. Ruschenberger, M. D. 

 Thomas Meehan. 

 Jolm H. Redfield. 

 Charles Schaffer, M. D. 

 Stewardsou Brown, 

 submitted, 



Thomas Meehan, 



Vice-Director. 



REPORT OF THE MINERALOGICAL AND GEOLOGICAL 



SECTION. 



Meetings of the Section have been held at the Academy regularly 

 during the year, except in the summer and in September and Oc- 

 tober, when most of the members are absent. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 567 



The attendance has not been large, but considerable interest has 

 been manifested and cominunications of value have been made. 



The Section has labored under the disadvantage that very few of 

 the present members of the Academy are sufficiently interested in 

 the study of mineralogy and geology to become members of the 

 Section or to take an interest in its meetings. 



The officers elected at the annual meeting are as follows : 



Director, ..... Theo. D. Rand. 



Vice- Director, .... W. W. Jefferis. 



Treasurer, .... Johu Ford. 



Conservator, .... W. W. Jefferis. 



Correspondivf] Secretary and Recorder, Charles Schaffer, M.D. 



Theo. D. Rand, 



Director. 



REPORT OF THE ORNITHOLOGICAL SECTION. 



A great deal of important work has been accomplished during the 

 past year in the ornithological department of the museum. 



The renovation of the collection has been continued in the man- 

 ner stated in the previous reports of the Section but a 

 much greater advance has been made in the work owing to the fact 

 that during the spring and summer the taxidermist, Mr. McCadden, 

 was enabled to devote all his time to this department. 



In all 2,214 mounted specimens, comprising all of the water birds 

 with the exception of the snipes, plovers and storks, have been care- 

 fully examined and the best specimens remounted on walnut or 

 stained stands. The unsightly specimens and duplicates unnecessary 

 for display have been labeled and stored in cases of drawers. 



The vast improvement in the appearance of the exhibition cases 

 after the specimens have been remounted is at once apparent to any- 

 one visiting the gallery. 



All the information contained upon the old stands has l)een care- 

 fully preserved and all the specimens have been numbered and 

 catalogued. 



The study collection of skins remains in an excellent condition and 

 has been rearranged during the year in air-tight tin cases especially 

 provided for it. All the accessions to this collection, numbering 




568 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[18 93. 



1,409 skins, have been labeled and catalogued. For this work 

 the Conservator is largely indebted to Mr. Howard Y. Penuell. 



The additions to the ornithological collection during the vear 

 have been noteworthy. The Rhoads collection of British Columbian 

 birds, numbering about 1,100 which was generously pur- 

 chased by friends of the Academy, is of especial importance as it 

 comprises large series of specimens from a region hitherto unrepres- 

 ented in the museum. Through the liberality of friends of the in- 

 stitution the Section was enabled to have an experienced collector, 

 Mr. R. B. Herron, in the field for a short time in the vicinity of 

 San Bernardino, Southern California, and many valuable specimens 

 of species heretofore wanting or very poorly represented in the col- 

 lection wex*e obtained. 



The collection of mounted birds of the late George W. Carpenter 

 is also a very valuable acquisition, containing examples of many 

 rare species, the most important of which is an adult male speci- 

 men of the extinct Labrador duck. 



The Delaware Valley Ornithological Club has also added many 

 very instructive groups of native birds with their nests and eggs, to 

 the already large collection presented during previous years. 

 This is now one of the most attractive exhibits in the museum. 



At the annual meeting of the Section held December 18, 1893, 

 the following officers were elected : 



Director, ..... Spencer Trotter, M. D. 



Vice-Director, .... George S. Morris. 



Recorder, ..... Stewardson Brown. 



Cor. Secretary, .... Charles E. Ridenour. 



Treasurer, ..... Samuel G. Dixon, M. D. 



Conservator, .... Witmer Stone. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Wither Stone, 



Conservator. 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF INVERTEBRATE 

 PALEONTOLOGY. 

 The Professor of Invertebrate Paleontology respectfully reports that, 

 as in past years, he has delivered the usual course of Spring lectures, 

 about twenty-five in number, and he acknowledges a satisfactor at- 

 tendance for the entire course. A number of the evening lectures 




1893.] XATUKAI. SCIENCES OF PHILADEJ.PHIA. 569 



were accompanied by lantern demonstrations. The field excur- 

 sions contmue to attract the general attention of the students, and 

 it is plainly visible that they exert a marked influence upon the zeal 

 and energy with which the subject of geological investigation is 

 prosecuted. The quality of independent observation is by this 

 means readily acquired, and with it is developed the healthy spirit 

 of original research. Especially successful have been the eflforts of 

 the students in fossil-collecting, and to them the paleontology of 

 New Jersey is largely indebted for work already accomplished. 



The condition of the paleontological department of the Academy 

 remains much as it has been. No relief has yet been afforded 

 to the crowded condition of the collections, but the near com- 

 pletion of the annex to the main building brings with it the 

 hope of an early betterment. During the year, under the super- 

 vision of the Curators, a portion of the State collection illustrating 

 the Second Geological Survey of Pennsylvania has been removed 

 from the boxes in which the collection has hitherto remained packed, 

 and placed in drawers especially provided for it. No proper ar- 

 rangement of these specimens is, however, as yet possible. Indeed, 

 any attempt to rearrange and re-classify would he un- 

 desii'able in the present condition of lack of room. Your Con- 

 servator regrets that, mainly owing to an affection of his eyes which 

 continued throughout the greater part of the year, he has not been 

 able to give that general attention to the collections under his cliar,'e 

 which he should have desired. 



There have been numerous accessions to the collections during the 

 year, among which, perhaps most j)r()miucntly,may be mentioned ex- 

 tensive series of Tertiary and Post- Tertiary fossils presented by Mr. 

 Joseph Willcox and Mr. Clarence B. Moore. In this connection 

 not inappro|)riately reference might be made to the collection of 

 Cretaceous and Miocene leaves obtained liy the Peary Relief Expe- 

 dition at the famous fossil-bearing locality of Atanekerdluk, Green- 

 land. The specimens are contained in sixty-five trays. 



Specimens for study have been loaned to Gilbert D. Harris of 

 Washington; AV. W. Clarke of Baltimore; C. B. Simpson of Al- 

 bany, and W. H. Cummins of Austin, Texas. 

 Respectfully submitted, 



A>'GELO HeILI'KIN, 



Professor of Inverttbrnte P(deoiilolo<nj. 

 87 




570 PROCEEDINfJS f)F THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF ETHNOLOGY AND 

 ARCHAEOLOGY. 



I have to report that durhig the early months of 1898 a series ot 

 free h>ctures was delivered by jne on ethnology, in the lecture room 

 of the Academy. They were well attended, and a commendable 

 degree of interest was excited among those who were present. 



Suggestions iuive been made looking toward class instruction in this 

 branch when suitable accommodation will be ready in the new build- 

 ing. The subject of physical anthro|)ology, a branch particularly 

 germane to the purpose and collections of the Academy, has attracted 

 considerable attention, and it is possible that a Section may be formed 

 among the members for its special study. 

 I have the honor to remain, 



Very respectfully, 



D. G. Brinton, M. D., 

 Professor of Ethrio/o(jy and Arehceologi/. 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF LOWER INVER- 



TEBRATA. 



The Professor of Lower Invertebrata respectfully reports that 

 during the past year he has delivered twelve lectures upon zoological 

 subjects. 



The additions to the nuiscuiu during the year have been neither 

 numerous nor important. 



Work has been carried on in the Cai-cinological department in re- 

 labeling and rearranging tiie specimens. A catalogue of the Stoma- 

 topoda, t'aridea and Penseidea, including forty genera and one 

 hundred and twenty-eight species, has been published in the Pro- 

 ceedings for this year (see pages 194 to 227), and it is hoped that the 

 second part of the catalogue, finishing the Decapoda will soon be 

 ready for the printer. 



During a leave of absence on a trip to the Hawaiian Islands, 

 although for Ethnological purposes, a number of invertebrata 

 were collected which have not yet been studied. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Benj. Sharp. 

 Professor of Lomer Invertebrata. 




1893.] NATUKAI. SCIENCES OF PHII.ADEJ.PHIA. ''>71 



report of the professor of histology and 

 microscopic; technology. 



I beg to veport that the work done as Professor of Histology 

 and Microscopic Technology during the year 1898 has embraced 

 the study of the life history of the tubercle Imcillus, the thera- 

 peutic effect of its products, the life history of Actinomyces with pai-- 

 ticular attention to the morphological changes produced by dif- 

 ferent food stuffs, a careful study of the blood from four cases of 

 Beri-Beri and microscopic work on slides of the bacillus of leprosy 

 which I prepared directly from lepers. Verbal communications have 

 been made to the Academy on Actinomyces and Beri-Beri. 



Respectfully, 

 Samuel G. Dixon. 

 Prof, oj Hist, and Microscopic Techuology. 



REPORT OF THE CURATOR OF THE WM. S. VAUX 

 COLLECTIONS. 



The Curator of the William S. Vaux Collections respectfully re- 

 ports that they are in good condition. Since the last re- 

 port, made to the Academy in 1890, 184 specimens have been added 

 to the cabinet of minerals at a cost of .$645.05. A number of these 

 arc unusually fine specimens of rare species. 



Since the death of the late Curator, Mr. Jacob Binder, I have 

 added to the mineral collection from Nov. 2, 1892 to the present 

 date Dec. 15, 291 specimens at a cost of $1,411.75. 



The number of specimens in the collection as reported by Mr- 

 Binder Nov. 80, 1890 was 7,028. He afterwards added 134 to Aug. 

 18, 1892 and since that time I have added 291, making a total of 

 7,450. 



No ad<litions have Ih'cu made to the archeological collection since 

 1885 and the number of specimens remains the same a.s then reported, 

 2,940. 



Respectfully submitted by 



Wm. H. Jefferis, 



Curator. 




572 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1893. 



The election of Officer^;, 

 Committee, to serve duri 

 suit:— 



President, 



Vice-Presidents, 



Recording Secretary, 

 Corresponding Secretary, 

 Treasurer, . 

 Librarian, . 

 Curators, 



CouiiciUors to ffrv) 

 years, 



Finance Committee, 



. (ouiieillor? and Memhers of the Finance 

 njr 1894, \va^ held with the following re- 



/Ao 



Isaac J. AVistar. 



Thomas Meehan. 



Rev. Henry C. McCook, D.D. 



Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



Benjamin Sharp, M.D. 



('has. P. Perot. 



Edward J. Nolan. M. D. 



W. 8. W. Paischenberger, M. D. 



Henry C. Chapman, M.D. 



Samuel G. Dixon, M.D. 



Ai'thnr Erwin Brown. 



Thomas A. Robinson. 

 John H. Rcdfield. 

 Charles Morris. 

 Harold Wiugate. 

 Charles Morris. 

 Charles E. Smith. 

 Uselma C. Smith. 

 William Sellers. 

 George H. Horn, M.D. 



ELECTIONS DURING 1893. 



MEMBERS. 



January 31. — George W. Warren, M. D., Nelson H. Strong, 

 Norris J. Scott, Thomas Say Speakman, Clarence B. Moore. Mary 

 K. Gibson, Jr., J. Howard Gibson, Thomas Bradley, Edwin Greble 

 Dreer, Richard C. Schiedt, Charles Nic(jll Bancker Camac, William 

 Evans Wood, John C. Sims, William D. Winsor, Clement B. New- 

 bold, William H. Joyce, Alexander J. Cassatt, Samuel F. Houston, 

 Alexander C. Harvey, Charles Hacker, Edward S. Buckley, Jr. , 

 Frank T. Patterson, George B. Heckel, Benjamin W. Richards, 

 Eugene Delano, Malcolm Lloyd, Charles H. Banes, Tlieodore C 

 Search, William H. Ingham, Algernon Sydney Logan. 




1893.] NATURAI^ SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 573 



Febraanj 28. — Charles M. Thomas, M. D., Walter Erben, 

 Warner J. Banes, Henry Erben, Joseph Sailor, M. D. , H. Frank 

 Moore, William H. Scott, Henry L. Taggart, Edward C. Kirk, 

 Ernest La Place, M. D., Harold H. Kynett, M, D. 



March 28. — Henry Winsor, Samuel R. Shipley, Thomas H. 

 Dougherty, Edgar W. Earle, Henry Hazlehurst, John A, Brown, 

 Jr., Frank Thomson, George B. Koberts, Enoch Lewis, Sutherland 

 M. Prevost, Hampton L. Carson, Crawford Arnold, Sydney F. 

 Tyler, Richard M. Cadwalader, Robert Wain Ryers, Joshua L. 

 Baily, J. Bayard Henry, Charles Chauucey, Francis B. Reeves, 

 Thomas ]\IcKean, Edw. H. Coates. 



April 25. — Lydia T. Morris, James Browu Markoe, Joseph 

 Leidy, M. D., Elizabeth Wilson Fisher, W. M. Kerr. 



Muij 30. — Ernest B. Sangree, M. D., Morris L. Orum. 



July 25. — Anna Blanchard, Harriet Blancliard, Maria Blanch- 

 ard. 



October 31. — Samuel N. Rhoads, J. Percy Moore. 



November 28. — Henry C. Mercer, Susanna M. Gaskill. 



CORRESPONDENTS. 



January 31. — William Libbey, Jr., of Princeton, N. J. ; Alfred 

 Russel Wallace, of London; G. H. Theodor Eimer, of Tiil)ingen. 



February 28. — J. A. Allen, of New York; AVilliam Brewster, of 

 Cambridge, Mass.; Robert Ridgway, ol Washington D. C. ; Charles 

 B. Cory, of Boston; Leonhard Stejneger, of Washington, D. C. 



February 28. — Arnold Lang, of Jena; Lord Kelvin (Sir William 

 Thomson), of Glasgow. 



April 25. — J. Victor Carus, of Leipzig. 



May 50. — Otto Staudinger, of Dresden; F. Ducane Godman, of 

 London, England. 



July ^J.— Charles Hedley, of Sydney, N. S. W. ; H. von Ihering, 

 of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil; O. Boettger, of Frankfurt, A. M.; 

 Julia B. Piatt, of Chicago. 




574 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



ADDITIONS TO THE MUSEUM. 



1893. 



Akch-eology and Ethnolooy. 



ChaB. Ball. Mummied hand, Egypt. 



Mrs. G. W. Carpeuter. Twenty-four Indian head dresses and other 



rehcs; lifty-live shoes from China, Jai)an, and other countries: one 



dissected man, showing circulatory and nervous systems: two 



human skeletons, man and woman; one human skull. 

 Prof. Angelo Heilprin. Pair of Eskimo boy's shoes, Godhavn, Cireeu- 



land. 

 ClareBce B. Moore. A collection of about three hundred trays of 



Indian relics from the mounds of Volusia County. Florida. 

 Peary Relief Expedition. Four suits Eskimo clothing, (Todhavii, 



Greenland; fifty-two trays Eskimo implements, Greenland. 

 Dr. C. N. Pierce. Twenty human crania and one femur of Hawaiians 



with wrappings from Sandwich Islands. 

 Thos. M. Seeds, Jr. One Mexican horse-hair lariat and one arrow 



head, Texas. 

 Jos. Willcox. A collection of Indian arrow-heads, Iredell Co., N. C_ 



Mammals. 



Mrs. G. W. Carpenter. Eight mounted mammals and one bison 



skull. 

 Dr. H. C. Chapman. Mounted specimen of .ly^/odo/(^/« /v</a, Tacoma. 



Wash. 

 \V. Coward. Skin of Jfusfela americana, Lycoming County, Pa. 

 Dr. S. G. Dixon. Brain of Eskimo dog; mounted skeleton of Canin 



familiaris. 

 Capt. E. J. Fish. Piece of horny ]jlate from muzzle of BaUenojAera 



sieboldii. 

 Peary Relief Expedition. Lcpio^ tiuitduH arcticH!>, mounted si^eci- 



men, two skins and fcjur skulls, Robinson's Bay, Greenland. ViU- 



pes lagopus, skin, ThdlaHsarctos maritinius, mounted specimen. 



Phoca barbata ilcCormick Bay. TrichecliuH rosinaras^ brain. 



Smith's Sound. 

 Purchased. Mounted specimen of Mazaina montana, Cascade ^Its., 



Washington. 

 S. N. Rhoads and Witmer Stone. ^Nloimted specimen of Sciurus Inid- 



sonius, with nest, Maj-'s Landing, N. J. 




1893.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 575 



W. E. Rothery and Prof. A. B. King. Mounted specimen and .skele- 

 ton of Chferopsis liberie ii'iix, Liberia. 



Jos. Willcox. Fragments of Jower jaw of Bakenn cisarctica. 



Zoolt)gical Society of Philadelpliia. Mounted specimens of Macacus 

 cyiiomolguH, Hapule peiileillata, Trichosurus rulpecula, Antilopf 

 ce)-i'icap>ra, Macacus erythneus, Cebu.s hypoleucus, Hapale vulyari>i, 

 Nandinia binotata, Lemur varius, Felis concolor^ Equus burcheliii, 

 Cynocepha/us Hp., Portax p ictus, Tragelaphusscriptus, Galera bar- 

 bara,JEquus chapmani^Gulo luscus,Auchema llama, Tragulus javan- 

 icus. 



8kins of Macacun cynomolyus, Cebus JatuflluH, Gazella subguiturona, 

 Sciurus hypopyrrliUH, Gazella sp., Vulpes a^.''^ 



Skeletons of iy^rt.r rnfus, Felis pardus, Cariacus virginiaiuix,C(([jrovis 

 sp., Phaeochcerus irt/iiopicns, Pusa hippelaphus, Gazella subguttur- 

 osa, Gazella sp. 



Skulls of il/oc«c?/s cynoniolgus. Bison bison, Galera barbara, Equus 

 burcheliii, Vulpes sp.? Equus chapniani, Ursus cwiericanus and 

 collection of twenty-six miscellaneous skulls. 



Birds. 



G. B. Benners. Skins of Dendroica clrrysojjaria and Vireo atricapil- 



lus. 

 Mrs. G. W. Carjieuter. A collection of one hundred and ten mounted 



birds and one hundred and twenty -three skins, including a 



mounted specimen of the male Labrador duck, CaniptolaimKs labra- 



dorius, also two ostrich eggs. 

 Dr. S. G. Dixon. Mounted specimeu Meleayris gallopavo, Virginia. 

 Delaware \'alley Ornithological Club. Twenty-two mounted birds; 



thirteen nests, eight sets of eggs, for Delaware Valley Ornitholo- 

 gical Club collection. 

 Albert Lano, (in exchange). Six bird skins, Minnesota. 

 Peary Relief Expedition. Young Eider Duck, (alcoholic), Duck 



Island, (Greenland. 

 Purchased. S. N. Rhoads collection of about 1,100 skins from British 



Columbia and Washington. lu)ur skins Dendragapus j'uliginosus, 



Washington, and mounted sijecimen Meleagris gallopavo. 

 I. S. Reifl", for late H. K. Jamison, one hundred and eighty-two eggs 



(twenty-two species). Eastern North America. 

 Prof. J. P. Remington. One skin /'ujpnus slricklandi, Atlantic City, 



X. J. 

 S. N. lihoads. One skin Merganser americanus, Washington. 

 Louis Schneider. Fifteen young birds in the down, British America. 

 Dr. Spencer Trotter. A collection of eleven skins from Beaverkill, 



Sullivan County, N. Y. 

 Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Mounted specimens of C'ygnus 



sp., Psophia sp., (Jtogyps calvus. 




576 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Skins of Thauinaiia picta, Metopiana peposaca, Palamedea cornuta 

 with steinuin,Conurus sp., Eupochortyx leucoUs,Leptoptiluii dubiiis, 

 Balearica regulorum. Skulls and sterna of Grus cinereus, Aquila 

 sp,, Penelope marail, Ortalida albiventrls, Balearica pavonina, 

 Psittacus erythraius, Otogyps calmts. Eggs of Sarcorhampus gry- 

 phius and Vidtur cinereus. 



Dr. Edw. Stone. Bird and nest covered by artilieial concretion. 



Reptiles and Batrachians. 



Mrs. G. W. Carpenter. Four mounted turtles. 



Dr. H. C. Chapman. Cryptobranchus alleghanienMJi, articulated skel- 

 eton and one jar of viscera. 



W. W. Jefferis. Shed skin of Crotalus adainanteus. 



Philip Laurent. Storeria occipitomc(culatc(, Hamilton County, N. Y. 



Purchased. Pyt/io/i sebce, (2) Morelia spilofes, Australia. 



S. X. Rhoads. Nineteen jars reptilia aud batrachia, Britisli Colum- 

 bia and Washington. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Two eggs Tentudo tabulata; one 

 jar Zonurus giganteus; articulated skeleton and three jars viscera of 

 Megalobatrachus maximus; three reptile skulls. 



Fishes. 



Philip Laurent. Exoglossam maxUiingua, Hamilton Co., N. Y. 

 Col. Marshall MacDouald. Lopholatdwi chamaeleonticeps, one hun- 

 dred miles ofl' Sandy Hook. 

 Purchased. Pristis anfiquoruni, West Indes. 

 S. N. Rhoads. One jar of fish, British Columbia. 

 Seaford Oyster Co. Batrachus tau, Seaford, Del. 

 Prof. Benjamin Sharp. Two jars of fish, Nantucket, Mass. 



Crustaceans. 



Wm. H. Boon. One jar Penreus setiferus, Holly Beach, N. J. 



Dr. H. C. Chapman. One jar Upogebia ajpnis, Atlantic City, N. J. 



Dr. S. G. Dixon. One jar Canibarus diogenen, Virginia. 



J. E. Ives and H. A. Pilsbry. Fom- jars Cambarus bartouii, Md. 



and W. Va.; one jar Cambarus ajffinis, Pa. 

 Miss M. E. Lyndall. One jar Cambarus bartouii, Pa. 

 Prof. Benj. Sharp. One jar Carcinus moenas, Nantucket, Mass. 

 Miss West. Balanus tintinabulum, Panama. 




1893.] NATURAI. SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 577 



ECHIXODERMS, WoRMS, CoRALS, ETC. 



J. E. Ives. One jar Thyone sp. Thoroughfare, Five Mile Beaih. N. J. 

 Mrs. Joseph Leidy. One mass of PoeiUophora eUganx. 

 H. C. Maehette. 8ix trays corals, Sanioan and Gilbert Islands. 

 Peary Relief Expedition. One jar Strongylocentrus drobrachlensis, 



]McCorniick Bay; one jar Cnciiinari(( fro»rlosa, Godhavn, (ireen- 



land. 

 8. X. Rhoads. Three trays J-Jc/iiiius, Xesqually, Piiffct Sound ; one 



specimen Verniftnx, Washington. 

 U. S. Department of Agriculture. Four jars and three slides 



Tcenia sp. 



Recext Mui.Lr.scA. 



T. H. Aldrich. Ariop/udiia doJierti/i Aldrich, Sumatra, Type. 



Edw. Barber. Helix obvoluta Miill., from Sussex, Eng. 



C. E. Beeeher. Types of Lgoyi/rus da/Ui Pils. and Beech., Wekiva 

 R.,Fla. 



Botanical Section. Ihli.c from Mt. Lebanon. 



John Jirazier. Thirteen s])ecies of land shells from Australia and 

 Solomon Is. (^alcoholic). 



Mrs. G. W. Carpenter. One. hundred and forty -eiglit trays of mol- 

 lusks. 



G. H. Clapp. StrobUopH from Georgian Bay, Ont. 



C<mchological Section. Eighteen jars of alcoholic specimens pur- 

 chased from Henry Hemphill ; four jars and three trays from F. 

 Sikora; collection of New Zealand land shells purchased from H. 

 Suter. 



Dr. J. CCox. Forty-five trays and thirty bottles of Chitons from Aus- 

 tralia, including types of Chiton coxiV\\^.,Acantliochite>i retrojectus, 

 A.coxi and ^4. granostriatiiH Pils., etc., etc. lihyiidii krchdrdi 

 Cox, and four trays of Solomon Island Helices. 



Prof. A. R. Craudall. Angitre)na geiiicidata and arm igera ixwd Aii- 

 eulosa prrprosa from Wayne Co., Ky. 



S. G. Crump. Chlorostoina nigricolor Dkr., Japan. 



J. H. Ferriss. Several trays of Sfrobi(oj)s from Illinois and Kansas. 



John Ford. Types of Helic beadUi Pils., collected in Arabia by Dr. 

 Beadle. Cyclostoma from Madagascai'. 



W. J. Fox. PhilomycuH from Clemeiitoii, X. J.; three trays of shells 

 from New Jersey and two frcjm Jamaica. 



Prof. Gentry. Anodonfa from Long Pond, Nantucket. 



S. W. Heaton. Four trays of shells from Niagara Falls. 



Charles Hedley. Seven species of land mollusks from New Zealand, 

 Tasmania and Australia, in alcohol. 



Angelo Heilprin. Six bottles of Aplysia, etc., from Florida. 




078 PROCEEDI>-GS OF THE ACADEMY uF [1893. 



Prof. F. W. Hutton. Seventeen trays of marine niollusks (Chitons 



and Pelecypods . from New Zealand. 

 Chas. W. Johu«<ju. Paludoinus palawanicus Brot..and other shells. 

 F. H. Lattin. Four species of mollusks. 

 Dr. J. P. Lundy. Xerithw. jordani Sow.. Jlelanopsis co>itata Oliv., 



etc.. Palestine. 

 H. C. Machette. Twenty species of shells from Samoan Is., etc. 



Aplyna and Yagliiulus from Florida Keys. 

 C. B. Moore. Eishteen travs of shells from the St. John's region. 



Fla. 

 Mrs. M. P. Olney. Three species land and fresh water shells from 



Washington .alcohoUc . 

 Peary Relief Expedition of lSft2. Twenty-two jars and fifty trays 



marine moUusks from Greenland, collected by Prof. A. Heilprin. 

 H. A. Pilsbry. Helix jultoni G. A., Afsrnoia dorsvosa Gld.. and other 



shells. 

 H. A. Pilsbry and J. E. Ives. One hundred and fifty-four trays and 



six bottles of mollusks from Western ^laryland. Collection 



enumerated and described in Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. PhOa. for 1894. 

 Henry Prime. T\\enty-five species of mollusks from Haiti, part 



alcoholic 

 J. B. Quintard. Three trays of Strobilops from Kansas. 

 W. J. Ra\-mond. Tell i na purpura-seens etc.. Acapuleo. 

 S. N. Rhoads. Twelve species of mollusks. Delaware Water Gap, N. 



J. : thirteen species marine and seven species land mollusks froiu 



Xesqually: Washington: six species from Vernou. B. C. etc. 

 J. Ritchie. Jr. Twenty-nine species of shells. 

 Prof. J. N. Ro\irosa. Twenty-four species land and fresh water shells 



from the State of Taba.sco, Mexico. 

 H. E. Sargent. Acmcea mesoleuca, Cancellaria tes-<e(lata and other 



marine shells: twenty trays of land and fresh water shells from 



-Alabama. 

 Dr. B. Sharp. Three species of fresh water shells from Nantucket : 



fifteen trays of land shells from Dominica, etc. 

 Dr. Henry Skinner. Pyramidulaperspectiva, Poly gyra pall lata amd 



P. Andre>rsce from Mitchell Co.. X. C. 

 U. C. Smith. Ampullaria depressn Say t alcoholic , Plorida: CUont 



bor€cdi<. Avalon. X. J. 

 Frederick .Stearns. Several species of Japanese mollusks. 

 Dr. R. E. C. Stearns. Xassa complanata Powis (two varieties , Oli- 



lella puelchana Orb., and Xassa hrunnt-oiitoraa Stearns. 

 Witmer Stone. Six species of nnjllusks from York and Luzerne 



Counties. Pa., etc. 

 L. H. Streng. Thirteen si)ecies of shell.-?^ 

 H. H. Stupakofl'. Helic-iiui occulta etc.. from Western Pa. 

 H. Suter. Sixty-nine species of laud shells from New Zealand pur- 

 chased . 




1^93.] XATIRAL SCIENCFS OF PHII.ADELPHIA. 579 



Ct. \V. Taylor. Piipd hoppi't Moller. etc., froiu British Columbia. 



E. G. Valletta. Twelve species of niolluslis from Philadeljihia i al- 

 coholic I . 



Hiyaut Walker. Strobiiops, etc.. from Michigan. 



Kol>ert Walton. Ten species of mollusks from environs of Philadel- 

 phia. Darts of CT(isfrodoiit(( /ic/era Say. 



(t. \\". Webster. Sfrobi/ops from Florida and Miuuesiota. 



Wm. H. Weeks. Jr. Five species of land mollusks. 



A. G. Wetherby. Series of laud shells from near ^laguetic City, N. C. 



Williard M. U'ood. Several species of Japanese and Californian mol- 

 lusks. 



G. W. Wright an exchange . One hundred and thirty-four species 

 of marine shells from New Zealand. 



Purchased. T\vo hundred and lifty-one species of land and fresh- 

 water shells formerly in the collection of the late Arthur .Moielet. 



X'ektkhkatk Fossils. 



Dr. Sternberii. Nineteen trays cretaceous fossil fish, four trays fossil 



reptiles. 

 Mr. Levy, through Dr. J. C. Morris. Bones and teeth of Dibtlodnn 



hainboldtii and Megtdherhuii sp.. 120 miles from sea-eoa.st W. of 



Recife, Brazil. 



I XVKKTKHK ATK F088ILS. 



W. C. Borden. Five trays of cretaceous fossils, Lenola, X. J. 

 Miss M. E. Holmes. One tray cretaceous fossils, Lenola, N. J. 

 Charles Laubach. Seven casts Motiocraterion leHlei/i, Bucks County, 



Pa. 

 Miss McFarlanc. One tray Cambrio-silurian fossils. 

 Clarence B. Moore. Thirty-four trays post-pliocene fossil moUusca, 



Florida. 

 H. A. Pilsl)ry and J. E. Ives. Six trays fossils, Maryland. 

 Prof. S. P. Sharpless. Two trays jjhosphate rock, N. Carolina. 

 E. Stokes and E. Harmer. Two coral pebbles, Mt)orestown and New 



Germania, N. J. 

 Jos. Willcox. Fifty trays Miocene and Pliocene fossils, Florida; 



seventy-four trays Pliocene fossils, Cal. For American Conchological 



Association collection. 

 Lewis Woolinan. Three trays fossils. Farmingdale. N. J.: thirty 



trays fossils. Lenola. N. J. 



1*1, .\ NTS. 



Esiale of John Ball, through Harvard University. Four hundred 

 and eighty-two species of plants, mostly European and mostly col- 

 lected liv the late John Ball. 




580 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Prof. Charles S. Sargeut, of the Arnold Arboretum. Six f<pecies of 



shrubs collected by him in Japan in 1892. 

 Roberts Le Boutillier. Four species of tropical orchids. 

 Dr. Henry Skinner. I7.scv/m album L. from Devonshire, England. 

 Peary Relief Expedition, sent to Greenland under the auspices of the 



Academy in 1892, Angelo Heilprin in charge, William E. Meehan, 



botanist. Eighty-nine species of phanerogamic plants and thirty- 

 three species of lichens. 

 Herbarium, of Columbia College, Xew York, through Prof. X. L. 



Britton. One hundred and ninety species of flowering plants and 



ferns collected mostly in the mountains of south \\estern Virginia 



by N. L. and Mrs. E. G. Britton and Anna M. Vail, in 1892. 

 A. A. Heller, Lancaster, Pa. Eighty-eight species of plants from 



Pennsylvania and North Carolina, including a few species from 



Idaho. 

 Dr. J. Bernard Briuton. Eighteen species of ])lants collected by A, 



A. Baldwin on Merritt's Island, southern Florida. Staminate and 



pistillate forms of Corema Conradii from "The Plains," Monmouth 



Co., N. J. 

 Ellis and Everhart. Twenty-ninth and Thirtieth Centuries of North 



American Fungi, received in exchange for duplicate centuries of 



the same from estate of George Martin. 

 Prof. Jo86 N. Rovirosa. Thirty-five species of plants collected by 



him in the States of Tabasco and Chiapas, Mexico. 

 Dr. Charles SchafTer. Hough's Sections of American Woods. Part 



III. 

 J. D. A. Cockerell. Uredo Violce, a fungus destructive to grape 



vines, from Kingston, Jaiuaica, collected by A. Hylton. 

 E. E. Schantz, Gettysburg collection. Pa. Four species of plants col- 

 lected by him in Central Kansas. 

 Joseph D. Crawford. Series of specimens of Aspleniuin montanunt 



from York Co., Pa. ; Cca-ex triceps and Pentstemon Digitalis ivoni 



Perkiomen, Pa. 

 T. Chalkley Palmer. Crotonopsis linearis and cleistogamic form of 



Viola bicolor Pursh. 

 Frederick L. Lewton. Habenaria macroceratidis, Habenaria Gar- 



beri and Microstylis Floridana, from Sumter Co., Florida. 

 Prof. L. H. Bailey, of Cornell I'ni versify. Bubus Canadnisifi L. var., 



coribaccus, a new variety. 

 Uselma C. Smith. Hydrodietyon — a fresh water alga. 

 Miss H. G. Powers, of Ismid, Turkey -in-Asia. Two hundred and 



forty species of Bithj^nian plants collected by her. 

 Prof. Thomas C. Porter, Lafayette College. Twenty species of plants 



from Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Virginia. 

 \V. W. Jefleris. Twenty-one species plants from Fort Edward, 



N. Y. 




1893.] NATTTRAL SCTRNC'KS OF PHILADELPHIA. 581 



John Donnell Smith. One hundred and fifty species of plant.'* col- 

 lected in Guateniahi \)y hini.'*elf and others. 

 Heujaniiu Heritage. Arh1ifh( o/ii/nnf/iafroni vicinity of Mickleton, 



x". J. 



Thomas Meehau and John H. Redfield. Two hundred and sixty- 

 nine species of plants collected by C. G. Pringle in 1892 in the 

 States of San Luis Potosi, Jalisco and Michoaean, Mexico. 



C^harles E. Smith and Thomas Meehan. Three hundred and seventy- 

 eight species of jtlants collected in Bolivia by Miguel Rang in 1890 

 and 1891. 



Charles K. Smith, /'o/j/f/oim/// (Iuuk toridii , the typical form and llie 

 var. Kc(iii(Ir/is, also Poli/f/omnii cin^pidntuni — from vicinity of Phil- 

 adelphia. 



John H. Redlield. One hundred and fifty-four species of plants col- 

 lected by Dr. Thomas Morong in Paraguay, 1888-90. Bark of 

 Sequoia gigantea from Caiaveras Grove, California. Woody 

 skeleton of Opuntia Bigelovii from Arizona. Montia foutana from 

 islands on the coast of Maine. Oaltonia candicans, cultivated. 

 Cnderwood's Hepaticae Amerieanae, Decades 15 and 16. 



rht)mas Meehan. Odontospermiim pygmaenm from Palestine, J.s- 

 trfUffihiK fometitosuf< from Egypt, Cladothrix fcmuiiiosa from 

 Kansas, Coursetia axiffari.^ from San Diego, California, and 

 P.^eud<)ti<nga Douglas^ii from Colorado. 



Edward li. liand and John H. Redfield. Ninety-three si)ecics of 

 plants illustrative of the Flora of Mt. De.sert, Me. 



J. If. Sandberg. Seventy-nine species of X. American plants. 



Fossil Plants. 



Peary Relief Expedition. Sixty-five trays Miocene leaf impressions, 

 Atanekerdluk, Greenland. 



^rixKKALs and Rocks. 



Jacol) Binder, (mic tray Cassitcritc, S. Dakota. 



J. T. M. Cardeza, M. I). One tray (Joruudum, Chester Co., Pa. 



]\rrs. (4. \V. Carpenter. Quartz, var. Citrine, Brazil (?) 



E. (Joldsmith. Aslieferrite and Pyrite in Caleite, French Creek, 



Chester Co., Pa. 

 J. M. Hartinan. Hemalite, Lancashire, England: Chalcoithanite, 



Ogdensburg, N. "S.: artificial Zincite, from residmnn heaps, 



Franklin, N. J. 

 W. W. .Icllcris. Hematite, Ij. Superior; Pra.sopal, Frankenstein, 



Silesia: Oligoclase, Tvedestrand, Xorway; Hyiiersthene rock, 



Adirondacks, X. ^^, and five other specimens. 




582 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



H. G. Ives. One Aquacreptite, one Glockerite, and one folded gneiss, 



Philadelphia, and four other specimens. 

 A. Kollner. Two trays rock, Pennsylvania. 

 Francis James Knautl". Pyrolnsite, Podi, Russia. 

 Abraham Meyer. One tray limestone, Cogan House, Lycoming Co., 



Pa. 

 Miueralogical Section. Quartz Pseudoniorph after Crocidolite, S. 



Africa. 

 Peary Kelief Expedition. Granite, Littleton Island, Greenland: one 



tray Nodular sandstone, Atanekerdluk, Greenland: twelve speci- 

 mens native iron, Disko, Greenland. 

 T. I). Rand. Nine trays minerals, one rock. 

 J. E. Richards<jn. iSeries of seven sjiecimens distorted Pyrite, French 



Creek, Chester Co., Pa. 

 C. G. Sower. Pyrite, French Creek, Chester Co., Pa. 

 Rev. J. E. Tahnage. Two large Selenites, Wayne Co., Utah. 

 C. S. Welles. Anthophyllite, Media, Delaware Co., Pa. 

 G. B. Wilkinson. Nine Magnetites. Essex Co., N. Y. 

 Lewis Woolman. Hornblende, Orange Co., X. Y.; Byssolite, French 



Creek, Chester Co., Pa. 

 Purchased for Vaux collection. One hundred and forty-nine trays 



and fifty-four si)ecimens of minerals. 




INDEX TO GENERA. ETC. 

 1893. 



Abies 21." 



Ahraiirhus 2:27 



Aliroiiivs 407 



Acaiithiniila i'o4 2">(i 



At-anthis 47, h:> 



Aeanthostisnia 44:^ 



Accipiter H9, (il 



Acer IHO, las 



Aemtea l28o-287 



AcnieicUe 2So-iJ<SH 



Aetiiioneiua ]o9 



Actiti^^ 3(i, HI 



-Echmophoius 21, 29 



.Ecidiuni lo4 



Ae.s;ialitis 37, 61 



Agaricus 440 



Affelains 28, 47, (vi 



Aix 22, 32 



.Maria 220 



Alaudiuus 48 



-Vlcbemilla 210 



Aiectoria 216 



Alope 112 



Alopecurus 214 



Alphaeus 112 



Alpheidae 112 



Alpbeoides 112 



Alpbeus 109 



.Visopbis 433, 434 



Alvf«)ii 467 



Ajlihlysr()nia.77, isl, 1S4, 383, 386 



Amieva 77 



Aminodranius 28, 48, 65 



Ammonite?^ 220, 222 



.\ni()r))ha 140 



.\ in pel is .53, 64 



.\iui)bil)()lite 176 



.\niiibi<)xus 80 



.\iiipiiilitery.\ 380 



Anipbispbicria 129 



Aiiiv/.oii 401, 402 



Anas . .22, 31, 60 



Aiiebistia. ... 118 



Aiicistrodon. .38.5 



.Viicistrdiiiiiia . 487-498 



Aiidriea 217 



Aiidrias 233 



Aiioiiiia 222 



Anser 23, 33 



Antenuaria 211, .306 



Anthostomelia 139 



Aiithiis .5-5, 6.5 



Apbelicbtliys 19, 20 



Apbrudiua 222 



Aquila 40 



Arabi8 208 



Arebeopteryx 72 



Archibuteo 40 



Archilestes 377, 379 



Aretagrostis 21-5 



Arevria 364-366 



Ardea 3.5, 60 



Arenaria 22,31, 209 



Argis 126 



Armeria 212 



Arnica 211 



Artemisia 131, 211 



Asbeferrite 174 



Ascochyta 150 



Asio. . * 22, 41, 61 



Asphalius 112 



Astacobdella 419 



AstaeuB 419 



Astata .539-548 



Astatus 468, .539-548 



Asterina 128, 442 



Asterinula 1.59 



A.steronia 1.5S 



Asterofitroma 441 



Atbanas 114 



Atva Ill 



Atvida' 1 ] 1 



Atvodia Ill 



Atys in 



Aulaeoniiiioii 21/ 



Aulopyge 19 



AutolytUH 81 



Avellana 220 



Axinea 222 



Aythya 23, 32, 60 



Azalea 134 



Bacillus 100 



Baculites 220 



Badhamia 372 



Bartsia 212 



Bascauiuni 38.5, 387 



Bassaris 413 



BassariscuH 41.3-418 




584 



PROCEEDINGS f)F THE ACADEMY OF 



[1893. 



Batrachia 181, 383, 386 



Belogona . 234 



BelonidhuH 149, 452 



Betula 213 



Riden*^ 303 



Bithyuis 119 



Blitrvdiuni 150, 453 



Boa/ 429 



Boiiai4a 28, 38, 61 



Boraginacea' 291 



Botaurus 35 



Bottiro])H 434, 435 



BothynostethUf^. 467, 468, 550, 551 



Botrvodiplodia 161 



Botrytis 168 



Brachvraiiiphus . . .22, 30, 60 



Brauchiobdella 421-428 



Branta 23, 33, 60 



Bras^enia 188-193 



Brava 209 



Brimella 297, 298 



Bryant bus 212 



Brvum 217 



Biibo 22, 28, 41 , 62 



Buellia 216 



Bufo 181, 184, 386 



Buteo 39, 61 



Caeoxeuite 175 



Callipepla 22, 37, 61 



Calliste 221 



Caniaros[)h()riiiiii 161 



Cambariis 419 



Campanula. 211 



Camptonectes. 221 



Cancer 105 



Caradlna . Ill 



CarassluH 78, So 



Cardamlne 208 



Cardiuni . ... 221 



Carex 214 



Caridiua Ill 



Caiphophi()i)s. 385 



CarjMidacus. .47, 63 



Carya. . . .132 



Cas8i()i»c. . ... 212 



Cathartes . .22, 39 



Catiniila . ... 166 



Cenangella .... 149 



Cenangiuin . 452 



Ceophloeiis 43, 62 



CephahtiKida 220 



Cepphus 22, 30 



Cerutostuiua 444 



Cerastiuiu 209 



Cercoapoia 170, 463 



Cerebella 156 



Cerithiiini 220, 222 



Certhia 22, 57, 65 



Cetraria 216 



Ceryle 42, 62 



Chaerodes 185 



Ch(etodii)U.s 407 



Chaetoniiuni 130 



Chietiira 23, 44 



Charadrlus 22, 37, 61 



Charitonetta 33, 60 



Cheiianthus 208 



Cheiroinyces 171, 134 



Chelidon' 53, 64 



Chelvdra 386 



Chlorida 107 



Chloridella 107 



Chlorosplenium 146 



Choeroi)His 185-187 



Chondestes 22. 49 



Chondrioderma 368-370 



Chordeiles 43, 62 



Chorophilus 386 



Cinclus 55, 65 



Cinosternuni 386 



Circus 22, 39, 61 



Cintothorus 57, 65 



Cistudo 386 



(?ithara 221 



Cladonia 216 



Clados))()riuni 463 



Clangula 3:> 



Clasterisporiuni 169, 463 



Clavagella 222 



Clavaria 441 



Cliola 19 



Clivicola 22, 53, 64 



Clyi)e()Spha-ria 13S 



Cneiuidophorus 387 



Coccophacidium 151 



C0CCVZU8 27 



Cochlearia 209 



Colaptes 27, 2.S, 43, 6:i 



Collenia 216 



(!()luber 385, 387 



('<)luinl)a 39, (il 



Colyinl.ns 22, 29, CO 



Coinaruin. 294 



Cojnalricha 3()7 



CoiU])S()gnalluis 72 



Conchodytes 119 



Coniocybe 21 (> 



ContojHis 44, i>- 



Cornus 211 



C'oronis 106 



(,'orvus 23, 46, 63 



(,'oryneuiH 16S 



C'osHus 2S:i 



Craugou 125 



Crangonidae 125 



Crateriura 370, 3(1 




1893.] 



NATURAI, SCilENCES OF PHTLADEIjPHIA. 



585 



( 'rux'todipiis 407, 



Crotalaphorus 



Crotulus . . . 188, 184, m5, 



Crotai)hytU!< 384, 



Cryniophilus 85, 



Cryptobranchus 227- 



Crypt<»i)hthalimis 



CyaiKK-itta 4o, 



Cyathicula 



C'yliLidriK'olla 



Cylindrosporiiim KiT, 459, 



(-'yphella 



Cypiiea 810- 



(^yprijiieiia .221, 



Cyjjseloides 22, 48, 



("yst()j)teris 



CvtiKixmi 



Deudiagapus .. .22,28,38, 

 Deiidroica . 22, 28, 27, 54, 



Deudryphiuiu 



DeiitaliiuTi. 220, 



Dermatea 148, 



Dennatella. '. 



Desmofjiiathus 



Diachii'a 867, 



I)iad()j)lus 



Diapeiisia 



l)ia])()rthe . . . . 140, 448, 



l)iativi)ella 129, 



Dibelodon 202- 



Dicocoum 



DurauoweiHia 



Didyiuo.-iphaeria 



Dieniyctylus 181, 



Dienec'ia 



nieiioplue . . . 4H7. 4(58, 548, 



Dalila 82, 



l)iiiier(>s|)()iiiiiu 128, 



Diiiotherhiiu 



Dipddoniys 409, 



Diploiia'via 



Diplopleetroii. . . 4H8, 584, 



Dipsas 



Duca 



DiscoiiivcotcH 145, 



Ditreiiia 



Doc'o.ulosHa . . . 285, 



DothioivUa 159, 



Draha 



Drinid 



Dnmiatlu'iiuiu 



Divas 20';, 209, 



Diyohatcs 22, 42, 



Kchidiia. 



Kcliiiiodeniiata 



Kchiiiiis ... 



Fidc'stosaunis 



Et>;c'<)ii 



38 



410 

 887 

 887 

 88(i 



HI 

 -232 

 112 



(52 

 451 

 4<)5 

 460 

 441 

 812 



62 

 215 

 150 



61 



64 

 169 

 222 

 451 

 148 

 384 

 368 

 387 

 212 

 449 

 144 

 204 

 462 

 217 

 44(> 

 188 

 112 

 549 



60 

 441 

 202 

 412 

 150 

 585 

 481 

 184 

 451 



95 

 286 

 45(> 

 209 

 127 



210 



62 



2' 9 



71 



125 



Elasmosaurus 



Elyimis 



p]inpetruui 



Empidouax 27, 44, 



Endoptygma 



Enduxyla . . 



Epiciates . . 



Epilobiuiu 206, 



Eqiiisetuiu . . . 



Ereuiietes 36, 



Eriantbus 



Erigerou 



Eriophorum 

 Erisniatiira . 



Esox 75, 



Eueyphidea 



Eumeees^ . . . . 



Euphorbia 299- 



Eiiporthe 



Eutaenia . . 182, 188, 184, 885, 



Entypella 140, 



Exclpiila 



Excipulina 



Exogyra 



Falco ... 22, 28, 40, 



Fenestella 



Festuea ...... 



Fieraster 



Fissurella 



P>aximis 



Fulica 28, 



P'uiiaria 



FuHarium 448, 



Gabro-PhoiioHte 



Gala.x 



(ialeoseoptes 56, 



Gallinago 



Geothlypit^ 55, 



Glaucidiun 22, 27, 41, 



Glaucionetta 88, 



Glaux 



Gl<x^sp()riiiiii ... . . 167, 



Gloniuin 



Glyi-eria 



(Tiiathoiihyllidae 



Gonodactylus 



(iouldia 



Graiiulite 



Griniinia . . . 



(irus 28, 



(Jvalecta . . 



(j'vrodes . 220, 



Habia ... 52, 



Haematopiis 22. 87 



Ilai'it'si.i . . 166 



ilai. oetus ... 10 



1 laplfpsycbt' 112 



Harkiiessia 4."i9 



71 

 215 

 214 



62 

 221 

 159 

 480 

 211 

 215 



60 

 136 

 211 

 214 



76 

 111 

 885 

 .801 

 44f) 

 887 

 148 

 165 

 1()6 

 222 

 '61 

 148 

 215 



90 

 285 

 180 



35 



217 



466 



176 



128 



65 



35 



64 



62 



60 



291 



459 



182 



215 



127 



105 



221 



179 



217 



35 



216 



221 



64 




586 



PROCEEDINGS OF 



Helianthus 191 



Helicope 484 



Heliopsis 804 



Helix 234-275, 408 



Hehniuthophila ". . .22, o4, H4 



Helotium 14o 



Hemiaster 222 



Hendersonia Kil, 457 



Hepialus 282, 284 



Herpetodryas 482 



Herpotrichia 180 



He^perociehla 59, 65 



Hesperornis 72 



Heterodon . 887 



Hexaprotodoii 186 



Hierochloe .214 



Hippolysmata 115 



Hippolytidae 115 



Hippolyte 115 



Hippopotamus 185-187 



Histriouicus 23, 88 



Holbrookia ........ 886 



Honiarus 76 



Hyaliuia 28() 



Hvgraphorus 440 



Hyla 181, 188 



Hymenocera 119 



Hymenoceridae 119 



Hymen omycetes 440 



H\Tnenoptera ... 48H 



Hypnum 217 



Hyphomycetea? ins 



Hyphomycetep 461 



Hypocrea 442 



Hypoxylon 450 



Hysterium 182 



rfhtbyofsaurus 71 



rrteria 22, -'io, 64 



fcterus 25, 47, 68 



Idoiiearca 221, 222 



Illosporiiim 465 



Isaria 465 



Juuco 28, 50, 68 



Karschia 458 



Kobesia . 214 



Lachuea . 145 



Laehuellula 451 



Laehuobolus 871 



Lagopuf* 22, 88 



Lanius .58, 64 



T.ai-ra 468, 480-488 



Lams 22, 80, 60 



Lasiosphieiia 129, 448 



Leander 119 



Lecauora 216 



Lecidia .216 



Ledum 212 



Leiopistha 221 



THE ACADEMY OF [1893. 



Lepeta 285-287 



Lepetella 287 



Lepetidjv 285-287 



Leptophi-s 482 



Leptosphjeria . 185, 447 



liBstes . . . 877-880 



Leuc'iscus 19 



Leueosticte 47 



Limax 889-394 



Liris 488, 535 



Loptiiospheeria 132 



Lophius 90 



Lophodvtes 22, 31 



Lottia ." 286 



lioxia 47, as 



Lunatia 220 



Lunda .80 



Lumbricu.^ 81 



Luzula 214 



Lychnis 209 



Lycium 134 



Lvcopodium 215 



Lyroda 467, 468, 588. 534 



Lysiosquilla 106 



Lysmata 117 



L^-thrum 801 



^lacrorhamphus 85 



^lacrospoiium 464 



:Malva 294, 296 



Marasaiius 441 



-Margarita 221 



Marsonia 168 



Martesia 219, 222 



Massariovalsa 188 



Mastodon 202, 204 



^iatriearia . . 211 



Meda 19 



Megalestes 877, 879 



Megalobatrac-hus 227-282 



Megalosaurus 71 



Megascops 22, 28, 41, 61 



^Nlelanerpes 48, 62 



Melauiconieae 454 



Melanomma 445 



Melanopsamina 129, 445 



^lelicerta 117 



.MeIos]jiza 23, 28, 51, 68 



^Nleuispora 462 



ilenopoma 228-232 



Mephitis 280 



Merganser 22, 81, 60 



Mertensia 212, 289 



Merula 59, 65 



Metasph;eria 186 



Micrupera 165 



Minnihis 19 



Miseophus 468, 479 



Modulus 221 




1893.] 



NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



587 



MoUisia 147 



Alolothrus 46, 63 



Monilia 461 



Mouotus 81 



Montaguella 133 



Myadestes 58, 65 



Myrianida 81 



Mytilidion 450 



Mytilus 222 



Myxosporiuni 458 



Naemacyelus 151 



Natica 220 



Natrix 385 



Nectocraugoii 126 



Nectria 129, 443 



Xeithea 221 



Xematocarciiuis. 121 



Neotonia 16 



>.'eolarra 467 



Nephrodium 215 



Nephroma 216 



Nica . . .124 



Nika ... .124 



Xikidae. . 124 



Niptera 147 



Niteliop.sis 468, 477, 478 



Nothosaurut< 71 



Notogonia. . . 468, 484-486, 488 



Numeuius 36, 61 



Numiiiulaiia 144 



Nyctala 41, 61 



Nyssa 137 



Odontofusu8 221 



Oidemia 33, 60 



Olana 287 



Olor 23, 34 



Onehophorus 217 



Oplophorus 121 



Ophi bolus 385, 387 



Ophiobolus . .448 



Ophiotheca . . . 364 



Ophisaurus 385, 387 



Orbilia 145 



Oreortyx 22, 37 



Oruithoiyuehu.si 73 



Ortholestes 377-382 



Orthotheciuni. . . 217 



Orthotrichuni 217 



Orvzopsis ... 128, 134 



Ostrya 129, 133 



Otoeoris 45, 62 



Otthia 133 



Oxvria 213 



Palaemou 109, 121 



Palaemouella 124 



Palaemouetes 124 



Palaeniouidae 119 



Pandalidae 114 



Paudalus 114 



Paudion 40 



Panuaria 216 



Pauopea 222 



Papaver 208, 209 



Paracraugon 126 



Parraelia 216 



Parus 22,23, 57, 65 



Pasiphtea ill 



Pasiphaeidae Ill 



Passerella 23, 51, 63 



Passerina 52, 64 



Patellidae 285, 286 



Patiuella 452 



Patula . 234, 238, 246, 389, 394, 395 



Pedioiilaris 212 



Pediuogyra 242 



Pediocsetes 89, 61 



Pelecauus 31 



Peltigera 216 



Pelyeosauria 72. 



Peuaeidea 108 



Peuaeu8 108 



Perisoreu-s --,45, 63 



PerodipiLs 409-411 



Perognathus 404-412 



Pertusaria 216 



Pestalozzia 461 



Petroehelidon 53, 64 



Phalaerocorax 22, 31 



Phialea 146 



Philouotis 217 



Pholadomva 222 



Phoma . .' 158 



Phonolite 176 



Phrynosoma 387 



Phyllostieta 156, 454-456 



Physalospora 447 



Phvsarum 371 



Physcia. 216 



Pica 23, 45, 62 



Picieorvus 46, 63 



Pimelite 174 



Pinicola 47, 63 



Piuua 222 



Pipilo 52, 64 



Piranga 52, 64 



Piricularia 462 



Pison 467, 470 



Pisonopsis 468, 469 



Pistillaria 441 



Pityophis 182, 184, 387 



Placodlum 216 



Plauogyra 246 



Platvlestes 377, 379 



Plenoculus 468, 536-538 



Pleospora 134 



Plesiosaurus 71 




588 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1893. 



Pliauchenia 202 



Plicatula 222 



Poa 214 



Podilymbus 29, 60 



Pogonatum 217 



PohJia 217 



Polvgouum 191, 218 



Polygyra 284, 889, 396 



Poutouella 119 



Pontonia 119 



Ponton iidae 118 



Pontophiluf^ 126 



Pooeaetes 48, 68 



Popnlus 289 



Portulaca 807 



Porzaua 28, 85, 60 



Poteutllla 209 



Pottia 217 



Primulaceff 291 



Procesna 124 



Progue 28, 52, 64 



Propolidiuni 151, 285 



Proteobrancbiata 286 



Proterosaurus 71 



Pf!altriparus 27 



Pseudogryplius 89 



Pseiidosquilla 106 



Pseudovalsa 450 



Ptychorampbu.s 30 



Puociuia 152 



Pycuodus 219 



Pyrenomycetes 128, 441 



Pvrola 212 



Pyrophyllite 197 



Pvropsis 221 



Quercus 24, 129 



Racomitriu ai 217 



Rallus 65 



Ramnlaria 169, 462 



Raua 181-184 



Ranunculus 208 



Regulus 28, 58, 65 



Reptilia 182. 884, 886 



Rhincoeynetidae 118 



Rbinococynetes. 118 



Rbododendrou 212 



Rhynchosaurus 71 



Riuodina 216 



Rosellinia 128, 444 



Rostellites 221 



Sabinea 127 



Salamandra 227 



Salix 180, 188, 213 



Salpinctes 25, 27, 56 



Salvia 191 



8araolu8 291 



.Saxifraga 210 



Sayornis 25, 44, 62 



Scalaria 



Scapbites 



Sceloporus 



ScirpuH 



Sclerocrangou 



Scolecophagus 47, 



Scotiaptex 



Scutellaria 



Scurria 



Scytale 



Seiurus 55, 



Seduna 



Selaspborus 



Semotilu8 



Septogloeuni 



Septoria 168, 



Sergestes 



Sergestidae 



Setophaga 55, 



Sialia 59, 



Sicyouia 



Sieboldia 



Silene 



Silphiuni 



Siiuorhjaicbus 22, 



Sitta 28, 57, 



Solauuna ' . 



So'omia 



Sorosporium 



Spatula 22, 82, 



Spea 182, 



Spelerpes 



Speotyto 



Spergularia 



Spbcerella 184, 446, 



Spbceronema 



SphcerophoruH 



Sphaiiopdidea^ 156, 



Spbaeropsis 150, 



Spbagnuni 



Spbyrapicus 22, 42, 



Spilotes 482, 



Spiuus -"■ ^*^) 



Spiroutocaris 



Spizella 22, 27, 28, 50, 



Squilla 105, 



Squillidae 



Stagonosphora . . . 162, 447, 



Steeuhammera 



Stelgidopteryx 58, 



Stellaria 



Stellula 



Stenotrema 



Stereocaulon 



Sterna 



Sticti.s 150, 



Stigmina 



Stomatopoda 



221 

 220 

 884 

 214 

 127 



68 



41 

 808 

 286 

 484 



64 

 211 



44 



20 

 461 

 457 

 110 

 110 



65 



65 

 110 

 227 

 209 

 806 



80 



65 

 134 

 216 

 156 



60 

 184 

 383 



41 

 290 

 447 

 158 

 216 

 454 

 457 

 217 



62 

 433 



63 

 117 



68 

 107 

 105 

 457 

 289 



64 

 209 



44 

 389 

 216 



31 

 458 

 171 

 105 




1893.] 



NATT'KAL SCIENCKS OF PHILADELPHIA. 



589 



Stureria 



Streptopus 



Striiniella. 



Sturnella 47, 



Surnia 



S^artzia 



Sylvania . . 22, 2H, 27, 2S, .5.5, 



Syiiipycna ;'>77, 



Syiithliboraiiiphus . . 22, oO, 



rtyringa 



Syr Ilium 22, 27, 41, 



'rachvciueta oH, 



'rachvsphex 488, .504- 



Tachytef- .... 488, 498-.-)04, 



Taraxacuni 



TfirhosiHJia. l;!(t, 



'reichos]K)iella 



Teiiea 



Teredo 



Tetraljelodon 2():>, 



'I'etraploduii 



Tetraprotodcju 



Thaiiiiiolia 



Theba 



Theluschistes 



Thoiiioiuys 



Thurius 



Thryothorus 6l>, 



Thyridiiun 



'riiysaiuiphora 



Tolieldia 



'I'i)taiuis 22, o(i, 



Trifhia 



'I'lichosphjeria. 



Tritoliimi . 



Tri.iioiiin .... 



Trill ga . 



'rrisetiiin 



'rrtjchilus. 



Troglodytes. . 



Tropidocloiiiiini 



Tryl)lidiella. 



Tivhiidimii 



22, m, 



28, .5(i, 



287 



H8.5 



29B 



4H.5 



(iH 



41 



217 



H.5 



H79 



BO 



189 



ti7 



H4 



o:-52 

 .-)32 

 211 

 44(1 

 l;^2 

 222 

 222 

 204 

 217 

 186 

 21(5 

 284 

 21 (i 

 40*5 

 384 



Ho 

 189 

 408 

 214 



HI 

 8B(> 

 129 

 808 

 222 



'hi 



215 



H2 



(>o 



887 



4.il 



4.-)0 



12 29 



284 



1.59, 



Trypoxylon 4(57, 471 



TurbiDcUa 



Tardus .... 22, 28, 28, 58, 



Turritella 220, 



Typhlutritoii 



Typtoii 



Tyrauuus 25, 44, 



irimus 



Umbilicaria 



Uugualia 



UredinejA? 



Uria 22, 



Uriuator 



Uromyces ... 

 U^tilagineje. . . 

 Vaceiniuin .... 



V'alloiiia 



Valsaria 



Veuiella 



Vermicularia . . . 



Verouica 



Verrucaria 



Vesicaria 



Virbius 



Vireo 22, 28, 27, 58, 



Voluta 



Volutella 



Volutoderiua 220, 



Volut(tiriorpha 



Wallrothiella 



Woodsia 



Xauthocephalus 



Xaiithoxyluiii 



Xeiiopieus 



Xiphoearis 



Xi})hosonia 480, 



Zeuaidura 89, 



Zeuglodon. 



Ziguoella . . 



Zonitoides 889, 894, 



Zoiiotrichia 2'2, 49, 



Zvthia 



477 

 220 



(55 

 221 

 384 

 119 



(32 

 188 

 216 

 429 

 152 



80 



60 

 155 

 152 

 212 

 ■279 

 144 

 222 

 456 

 212 

 216 

 208 

 118 



64 

 220 

 171 

 222 

 220 

 188 

 215 



47 

 189 



42 

 121 

 481 



61 



71 

 187 

 895 

 . 68 

 457 




GENERAL INDEX. 

 1893. 



Additions to Museum, .574. 



Allen, Harrison, M.D. The forms 

 of edentulous jaws in the 

 Human Subject, 11. Note on 

 the mechanism of the act of 

 the expulsion of secretion from 

 the anal sac of Mephitis. 280. 



Bancroft, Edward, announce- 

 ment of death of, 226. 



Binder, Jacob, anouncement of 

 death of ; resolutions, 66, 67. 



Biological and Microscopical Sec- 

 tion, report of, 563. 



Botanical Section, report of, 566. 



Brinton, Daniel G., il. D. Re- 

 port of the Professor of Ethnol- 

 ogy and Archaeology, 570. 



Brown, A. E. Notes on some 

 snakes from TrojDieal America, 

 lately living in the collection 

 of the Zoological Society of 

 Philadelphia, 363, 429. 



Burk, Isaac, announcement of 

 death of, 201. 



Calvert, Philip P. The Odonate 

 genus Ortholestes, 348, 377. 



Chapman, Henry C, M. I). The 

 interpretation of certain verses 

 of the first chapter of Genesis 

 in the light of paleontology, 9, 

 68. Notes on Choeropsis liber- 

 iensis Morton, (Plate IV) 173, 

 185. Observation on the Jap- 

 anese Salamander, Cryptobran- 

 chus maxim us (Schlegel), 

 (Plates V, VI, VII) 218, 227. 

 Homologies of the alisphenoid 

 and petromastoid bones in ver- 

 tebrates, 439. 



Chapnaan. Henry C, M. D. and 

 Albert B. Brubaker, M. D. The 

 radius of curvatures of the cor- 

 nea, 226, 349. 



(.^ope, Edw. D. On a new extinct 

 species of Cyprinidae, 11, 19. 

 A contribution to the herpetol- 

 ogy of British (^olumbia, 66,181. 

 Description* of the lower jaw of 

 Tetrabelodon Shepardii Leidy, 



lOl, 202. Soiue new and little 

 known Paheozoic and Jurassic 

 lishes, 218, 280, 362. On a col- 

 lection of batrachia and reptilia 

 from southwest Missouri, 362, 

 383 On the batrachia and rep- 

 tilia of the Plains at latitude 36° 

 30', 362, 386. On Cyphornis, an 

 extinct genus of birds, 362, 363. 

 On extinct Bovidte,Canidfe and 

 Felidfe from the Plistocene of 

 the Plains, 401, 439. Fossil 

 fishes from British Columbia, 

 401. Heredity in the social 

 colonies of the Hvmenoptera, 

 436. 



Committee on Hayden Memorial 

 Geological Award, 67. Report 

 of, 403. 



Committees, Standing, for 1893,9. 



Concholot;ical Section, report of, 

 563. 



Corresponding Secretary, report 

 of, 555. 



Curator of the Wm. S. Vaux C(il- 

 lections, report of, 571. 



Curators, report of, 558. 



Dall, W H. The phylogeny of 

 the Docoglossa, 280, 285. 



De CandoUe, Alphouse, an- 

 nouncement of death of, 201. 



Dixon, S. G., M D. Involution 

 forms of Tubercle Bacillus and 

 the effect of subcutaneous in- 

 jection of organic substances on 

 inflammations, 66, 100. Report 

 of Curators, 558. Report of the 

 Professor of Histology and 

 Microscopic Technology, 571. 



Elections during 1893, 572. 



Ellis, J. B and B. M Everhart 

 New species of North American 

 fungi from various localities, 11, 

 128. New species of fungi from 

 various localities, 402, 440. 



Entomological Section, report 

 of, 565. 



Ford, John. Remarks on a new 

 species of Cypraia, 310. 




1893.] 



NATrRAI. SCIENCKS OF PHILADELPHIA. 



591 



Fox, Wm. J. Xorth American 

 Larridae, 402, 467. 



Gadolin, Axel, aunouncemeiit of 

 death of, 1 5. 



Geuth, F. A., M. D, , annouuee- 

 ment of death of, 66. 



(ioJdsmith, Edward. Notes on 

 some minerals and rocks, 

 (Plates I and II) 66, 174. A 

 tempered steel meteorite, 

 I Plate IX 1 84S, 87K. 



Hacker, Charles, announcenaent 

 of death of, 862. 



Hartmanu, Robert, aunonnce- 

 meut of death of, 226. 



Hay den ^lemorial Geological 

 Award, 67. Re}tort of Com- 

 mittee on, 40o. 



Heilprin. Angelo. Report of the 

 Professor of Invertebrate Pale- 

 ontology, .568. 



Holmes, W. H. Earthenware of 

 Florida, collections of Clarence 

 B. :Moore, 436, 489. 



Horn, Geo. H., M. I)., election 

 of, as member of Finance Com- 

 mittee, 14. 



Hov, P. R., announcement of 

 death of, 10. 



Hunt, .1. Gibbons, .M I)., an- 

 nouncement of death of; reso- 

 lutions, 218. 



Index to Genera, o88. 



Jefleris, Wm. P. Report of the 

 Curator of the Wm. S. Vaux 

 Collections, .i71. 



Keim, Geo. UeB., announcement 

 <»f death of, 173. 



Keller, Ida A. The glandular 

 hairs of Brasenia peltata Pursh, 

 178, 188. 



Koksharow, Nicholas, announce- 

 ment of death of. lo. 



Lil)l)ey, William, .Jr. Physical 

 (Geography of the Hawaiian 

 Islands (no abstract) 489. 



Levick, James J., M. D., an- 

 nouiu'cment of death of, 280. 



Librarian, rejKirt of, ViH. 



Lilly, William, announcement 

 of death of, 489. 



.Maisch .John M., ainiouncement 

 of death of, 848. 



.Maikoc. .John, announi-cment of 

 death of, 66. 



Martindaie. Isaac C., announce- 

 ment of death of ; resolutions, 

 10. 



INIasou, James Wood, announce- 

 ment of death of, 489. 



Meehau, Thomas. Contributions 

 to the life histories of plants, 

 No. 9, 280, 289. Report of Bo- 

 tanical Section, 566. 



Meehan, Wm. E. A contribu- 

 tion to the flora of Greenland, 

 201, 205. 



Meyer, Abraham. Pyrophyllite 

 slate in Northern Pennsylvania 

 66, 197. Notes on the occur- 

 rence of quartz and other min- 

 erals in the Chemung Measures 

 near the line of Lycoming and 

 Tioga counties, 66,194. 



Mineralogical and Geological Sec- 

 tion, report of, 566. 



Moore, Clarence B. Certain Sand 

 Mounds of the St. John's river, 

 Florida. Part 1, 810. 



Moore, J. Percy . On some leech- 

 like ijarasites of American 

 Crayfishes, (Plate XII) 401, 419. 



Morsell, F. C. Taking a sunbeam 

 apart, (no abstract) 226. 



^luseum, additions to, 574. 



Newberry, J.S., M.D., announce- 

 ment of death of, 11. 



Nolan, Edward J., M. D. Report 

 of Recording Secretary, 552. 

 Report of Librarian, 556. 



Officers, Councillors and mem- 

 bers of Finance Committee for 

 1894, 572. 



Ornithological Section, report of, 

 567. 



Owen, Sir Richard, announce- 

 ment of death of, 11. 



Perot, Chas. P., election of, as 

 Treasurer, 11. 



Pierce, Dr. C. N. Edentulous 

 .jaws, 13. Remarks on Hawaii- 

 an crania. 224. 



Pilsbry, H. A. Critical list of 

 mollusks collected in the Poto- 

 mac Valley, 402. Thysanophora 

 coloba, 40.3. Report of Concho- 

 logical Section, .563. 



Pine, Wm. S., annoinicement of 

 death of, TO. 



Professor of Ethnology and .\rch- 

 teology, report of, 5^0. 



Professor of Histology and INIi- 

 croscopic Technologv, report of, 

 .571. 



Professor of Invertebrate Paleou- 

 tology, report of, 868. 




592 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1893. 



Professor of Lower luvertebrata, 

 report of, 570. 



Raud, Theodore I). Report of 

 Mineralogical and (Geological 

 Section, -566. 



Recording Secretary. re port of,o.52. 



Report o+" Biological and Micro 

 scopical Section, .5i):>. 



Report of Botanical Section, oHH. 



Report of Committee on Hayden 

 Memorial Geological Award, 

 40H. 



Report of the Coiichological Sec- 

 tion, n(i;]. 



Report of Correal lond I ng Secre- 

 tary, .5oo. 



Re]Jort of theCurator of the Wm. 

 S. Vaux Collections, 571. 



Report of Curators, 558. 



Report of Entomological Section, 

 565. 



Report of Librarian, 556. 



Repoit t)f Mineralogical and Geo- 

 logical Section, -"566. 



Report of Ornithological Section, 

 567. 



Report of the Professor of Eth- 

 nology and Arch;eology, 570. 



Report of the Professor of Hist- 

 ology and Microscopic Tech- 

 nology, 571. 



Report of the Professor of Inver- 

 tebrate Paleontology, 568. 



Jteport of the Professor of Lower 

 luvertebrata, 570. 



Reptjrt of Recording Secretary', 

 552. 



Rex, Geo. A., M. D. New North 

 American Mvxomvcetes, 280, 

 .364. 



Rhoads, Samuel N. The birds 

 observed in British Columbia 

 and Washington during the 

 spring and summer 1892, 21. 

 Description of new species of 

 North American mammals 

 with remarks on species of the 

 genus Perognathus, 401, 404. 

 Geographic variations in Bas- 

 sariscus astutus with descrip- 

 tion of a new subsi)ecies, 401, 

 418. 



Roberts, Louisa J., aunounL-e- 

 ment of death of, 178. 



Robinson, Thomas A., election of 

 as member of council, 15. 



Rogers, Wm. B., announcement 

 of death of, 178. 



Ryder, John A. On the inheri- 



tance of modifications due to 

 the disturbance of the early 

 stage of development in the 

 Japanese domesticated races of 

 Gold Carp, 11, 75. The vascu- 

 lar resjDiratory mechanism of 

 the vertical fins in the vivipa- 

 rous Embiotocidic, 11,95. 



Semper, Carl, announcement of 

 death of, 280. 



Sharp, Jjenjamin, ^l. D. Cata- 

 logue of the Crustaceans in the 

 museum of the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadel- 

 phia, 11, 104. Election of, as 

 member of the Committee ou 

 Instruction and Lectures, 67. 

 Notes on the Hawiian Islands 

 (no abstract) 486. Report of 

 Corresponding Secretary, 555. 

 Report of the Professor of 

 Lower luvertebrata, 570. 



Sharpless, Stephen P. Phosphate 

 beds of Florida ( no abstract) 201. 



Steel, Francis T., announcement 

 of death of, 401. 



Sterki, V. Observations on Val- 

 lonia, (Plate VIII) 218, 284. 

 Changes \\ith age in the radula 

 of land mollusca, (l^lates X, 

 and XI) 812, 888. 



Stone, Witmer. Description of a 

 new species of Neotorae, 11, 16. 

 Report of Ornithological Sec- 

 tion, 567. 



Strecker, Herman. Descriptions 

 of two new species of Nt)rth 

 American Bombvcid;e, 226, 

 282. 



Taggart, Henry L., announce- 

 ment of death of, 848. 



Tarr, Ralph S. Notes on the 

 ])hvsical geographv of Texas. 

 280, 818. 



Turnpenny, Joseph C, announce- 

 ment of death of, 6(i. 



Willcox, Jos. Metamorphism of 

 sedimentary rocks, 10. 



Wingate, Harold, report of Bio- 

 logical and Microscopical Sec- 

 tion, 568. 



Woolman, Lewis. Cretaceous 

 Ammonites and other fossils 

 near Moorestow n, N. J. Their 

 stratigraphic position shown 

 by an artesian w ell section at 

 Maple Shade, N. J. Incidental 

 reference to water horizons, 219, 

 888. 




Proc. Acad. Nat. Scl. Phila, 



Plate IX. 



^ V 



^ 



IT 



cFjg. 1 



Levytypc Co., Engravers, Paila. 



GOLDSMITH, TEMPERED STEEL METEORITE. 





Proc. Acad. Nat. Scl., Phllada., 1893. 



Plate X. 



C I 2 J <f 



A ^ o o 1 1 1 



I o OOCD 



2 <^q9P° 1 



VI 



3 ^ 



10 



15 

 25 



i;p 



5 



7 

 8 





c=? 





6 



i 



5 -^ (^ 

 7 — 



II 



12 



I 



CD o 



X4-30 

 A 



^{3 ft^^^'^.^.!" 



2 I C 



C 6 



B X +45 



CD 

 15 



C I 



10 15 16 17 18 20 25 40 45 46 



STHRKI, RADULA OF LAND MOLLUSKS. 





Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci.. Phila., 1893. 



Plate XI. 



=> 1 



=> 2 



^^^^Pc= 3 



^ vni 



4 3 2 1 C 



C I 



<^ 



^0 



20 21 22 



C I 5 6 7 



A A A 



a0pv^^^>: 



III 



^^ A 



// IV 

 C I II 12 13 14- 15 16 17 25 35 40 



C I 





V 



10 II 



.^^fi^r^FF^^v,, " 



25 26 



.3 S^' 



29 30 



20 



6 1 



& 9 



I? 1^ '^ 



STHRKi, RAUULA OF LAND MOLLUSKS. 





Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1893. 



Plate XI 



MOORE : PARASITES OF CRAYFISHES. 













pinii^i 1^' 



Aij-m !.' 



QH 



1 



A2 



Biological 

 & Medical 



■'^■'■v^y''^^'^'';' ■•■■•'''•' -"^-^'^ 



Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia 

 Proceedings 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 

 CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



V- 





